Volume 80, Number 27 
April 29,1980
Camegie-Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
GSO moves for independence
Student casts ballot in Skibo during Student Senate elections.
Alexander elected President
by Jeanne Abmayr
In last week’s re-run of the Student Sen­
ate elections, John Alexander led Nina 
Houska by only nine votes to win the posi­
tion of Student Government President.
With 26.8% of the campus turning out 
to vote, Alexander pulled in 366 votes, fol­
lowed by Houska (357) and Stuart Schlis- 
serman (267). Write-in candidate John Wil­
liams received 172 votes. Now, Alexander 
hopes to get more people involved in cam­
pus projects. He feels that “Individuals can 
plan and initiate programs, but for anything 
to be successful, the efforts of many people 
are required.”
The full-term representatives for CIT are
Mike Fryd, Mary Jo Lusnak, Kevin Kelly, 
and Steven Smith. Lynn Yanyo and Nancy 
Crosbie each were elected to %term. Seats 
in MCS were filled by Art Benjamin, Peter 
Fine, and Mark Wright term).
In CFA,the Senators include Jim Collyer, 
Christine Deveau, Doug Carney, and Rich 
Hanusek (i4 term). The Mary Watson- Rick 
Sabol ticket was again victorious in H&SS. 
Mark Faust was elected to Fill in the seat in 
AMS.
A Phi 0 won the referendum on con­
cessions, taking 89.6% of the votes.
Although the turnout was not as high .as 
that of the first election, it was a consider­
able improvement over past years.
by Jim Balsom
The Graduate Student Organization 
asked the Student Senate to approve 
several “principles” which would be used 
to guide Senate and GSO negotiations 
concerning the status of GSO’s relation­
ship with Senate.
At thev Senate meeting two weeks 
earlier, the GSO announced its intention 
to “investigate alternatives concerning their 
relationship with Senate.”
According to a letter sent to all graduate 
students, “one choice is an autonomous 
graduate student government with control 
of 100% of the graduate student activities 
fee.”
The other proposal calls for remaining 
within Student Senate, but receiving a 
flat percentage of grad student activities 
fees solely for GSO programming.
“. . . Both proposals involve the forma­
tion of a Graduate Student Assembly 
made up of representatives from graduate 
departments. The final choice between 
these alternatives will be made by the 
Graduate Student Assembly when it 
convenes in the fall.”
The guideline proposal submitted to 
Senate called for the allocation of $27,000 
(the $20 increase in the activités fee that 
all grad students will have to pay) next 
year to the GSO with eight 1/3 increases
over the following years up to 75% with 
approval from the Finance committee and 
Senate.
It also called for a GSO representative 
to Senate who would act as an ex-officio 
member of the Appeals Board and Finance 
committee.
Under the proposal, the GSO would be 
entitled to fund non-academic organizations 
affiliated with University departments.
These rules, when accepted by Senate, 
will not become effective until a GSO vote 
of acceptance. In any case, they cannot be 
rescinded except by a 2/3 vote of the 
Senate even with due notice of the res­
cinding motion.
Senator Eric Butler asked why the GSO 
couldn’t go through the regular process of 
getting money. He said that the GSO hasn’t 
even tried it that way.
A representative of the GSO said that 
they had tried going through the esta­
blished route for getting money and that it 
worked, but added that it was his “feeling 
that it won’t continue to work ... because 
some functions may exclude under­
graduates.”
Senate then passed all of the principles 
except for the one dealing with Finance.
Further debate on that principle 
continued until two Senators left the
continued on page 6
Try to remember, the kind of September. . /
by Jeffrey Zaslow
It is September 1, 1979 and you are the 
editor. In the school year to come, you will 
be responsible for filling — with news, in­
formation, shlock and advertising — some 
700 pages of newsprint. That’s a lot of 
words. Too many pictures. 26 editorials. 
Hundreds of sporting events. Thousands of 
classifieds. And more mistakes and typoes 
than you can catch or count.
Yet you have as your responsibility 
those 700 blank pages. You’re given a little 
more than 20 000 smackers by the ever- 
generous Student Senate (mixed in with 
about $20,000 in raised advertising revenue) 
and you’re told to go to work. Fill those 
pages. By graduation, there’s got to be lots 
of news, scandal, tragedy, triumph and a 
non-wimpy attitude towards Warner Hall in 
every edition. Get your staff in gear. Get 
your typesetters typesetting. Get your 
editors editing. Get your letter-writers let­
ter writing.
Of course, some stories can be predicted. 
They can almost be written in advance:
Tuition Increased Yet Again
SARC Hans Humdinger For Home- 
coming
Cyert Addresses Issues (Not his audi­
ence, mind you, but the issues!)
Senate Divies Up Activities Fee Pie with 
Crooked Pie Slicer. Etc., etc., etc.
But other stories — and this is what 
makes newspapering so exciting — appear 
out of nowhere and become part of CMU 
history. Tomorrow's legends are born in 
the pages of today’s TARTAN.
Well, ready to get started? Do you feel 
'ost? To help you, here's a list that is sure 
to do the trick. Just fill in these stories in 
,lie appropriate time slot, and you'll make 
0l|t like a super editor. All 706 pages will 
be a snap.
September
People were coming, going, and smiling
about it in the TARTAN. Dr. Angel Jordan 
took over as Dean of CIT and smiled broad­
ly. Bill Dillon, forner Director of Auxiliary 
Services, left to be Senior Business Officer 
at Chatham and had such a smile on his 
face it almost covered his moustache. Dr. 
William A/ Sirignano took over as Head of 
the Mechanical Engineering Department 
and grinned. And Dr. Roland Smith, a 
member of the history department, as­
sumed the position of Special Assistant to 
the President for Faculty Recruitment. No 
picture available.
The Watennelon Bash attracted scores 
of freshmen, hungry upperclassmen and a 
fair number of high school youngsters 
hoping to pass as college youngsters.
Vali-Dine became a familiar word to all 
of us. Though we weren’t used to paying 
for each pad of butter individually, we 
quickly adapted to the new program and 
most of us didn’t do much complaining. 
Students with food service contracts in pre­
vious years, however, learned immediately 
that “9 points” worth of Skibo food could 
add up to 9 or 10 dollars. It became neces­
sary to eat less in order to spend less. Col­
lectively, we lost a heck of a lot of weight.
A TARTAN story claiming that the new 
dorm wiring would not pass inspection 
caused a bit of a stir, and the TARTAN 
had to clarify the accusation in a later issue. 
A Phi O claimed they’d been “ambushed” 
by food service when the concession rights 
to home sporting events were taken away 
from them. And debate began yet again 
about the moral values of a Miss Varsity.
Enterprising students rearranged the 
street lines on Morewood Avenue. Tom 
Hart redesigned the drab wall in Skibo. The 
football team repeated their winning ways 
of the 78 season. And Activities Board 
redefined the definition of “quality enter­
tainment” by showing “The Cheerleaders” 
to sell-out crowds.
Dr. Robert Eisenstein won the Ryan 
Award for Meritorious Teaching. Kun Li 
won the McKenna award for his research 
work in the reduction of iron oxide.
October
SAE had the campus abuzz with news 
of their window-shattering volcano party. 
The frat was Fined and place on social pro­
bation. If they seemed red-faced n their 
way to class in the days and weeks fol­
lowing, it wasn’t because they were em­
barrassed. It must have been the glow from 
the explosion that did it, a “Close Encoun­
ters.”
The frats gained 205 pledges on pledge 
night and the sororities gained 50.
Jane Fonda and her husband Tom Hay­
den came to campus to speak against nu­
clear energy and drew mixed reactions 
from CMU students. Two executives from 
the nuclear industry spoke after Fonda and 
Hayden and drew mixed reactions. Later in
the month, John Dean, one of the stars of 
Watergate, spoke in the Ballroom and drew 
mixed reactions. And finally, President 
Cyert spoke to the trustees about the state 
of the university. The reaction? Mixed.
Homecoming came to campus in mid- 
October with the theme “Mad For Plaid.” 
Molly McClosky, a senior in Musical 
Theater, was named Homecoming Queen. 
And after hankying, pankying,complaining, 
and more complaining, equal time was 
granted to those demanding a male home­
coming figurehead. Mory Brenner and 
Mark Andrews were crowned as Princes.
Cheating was discussed on WRCT with 
Profs. Mary Ann O’Nan, Cliff Davidson, and 
Hugh D. Young. It was also the subject of 
TARTAN news stories and editorials.
DOSSIER (pronounced however you 
think best) replaced FOLIO as the TAR­
TAN’s creative writing magazine. It went 
to a better- quality of paper and a flashier 
format design.
Austin Wright, a member of the English 
faculty for 45 years, and Henry Boettcher, 
head of the drama department for 22 
years, died in late September with their 
obituaries appearing in early October.
Blood Sweat and Tears appeared at 
homecoming. And WRCT, with the incep­
tion of AIRPLAY, became the only radio 
station in Pittsburgh to air live radio drama. 
The WRCT antenna, by the way, was final­
ly erected on top of Warner Hall resulting 
in improved reception ¿cross campus.
The Tartans kept up their glorious win­
ning ways on the football field and even 
appeared live on WIIC TV for their game 
against Washington and Jefferson. Craig 
Woolheater, a Senior Mech. E. with a gift 
for running, led a strong Cross Country 
team to a string of victories.
continued on page 12

---------------------------------------------------

The envelope, please .
With tears in our eyes and dreams of finally having that 
Relaxing summer in 1980, we are all preparing to head for 
whatever awaits us in the sunny months ahead—whether it 
be our first plunge into the career world, or the archetypal 
summer job in some crooked international fast-food chain 
that won’t even pay minimum wage, or our last chance to 
hitch across the country in hopes of finding the Golden 
Fleece or the Holy Grail (we’re not picky).
We at the TARTAN would like to, in some small way, 
honor those people who have made this year a memorable 
one for us all. After a long and arduous process of selec­
tion, we managed to decide who would receive this year’s 
prizes (it was tough — there were many deserving candidates, 
and we had to drink a lot before we could finally decide).
But without further ado, we would like to present the 
1979-1980 Pursuit of Excellence Awards:
—The “I’d rather have a $10,000 car than an $8,000 
education” award — to President Richard Cyert, tor his fine 
tradition of empathy with the students of CMU.
—The “Eat Kiltie and Die” award — to John Eichmuller 
and the rest of the Food Service staff, for being so concerned 
about our eating habits that they courteously closed the 
Bakery-Deli only to re-open it three weeks later.
—The “I never liked the Bill of Rights anyway” award — 
to Mike Inners and all those fun-loving members of this 
year’s Student Senate.
—The “Some of my best friends are radicals” award — 
to Dr. Jerome Foster of GSIA, in appreciation of his efforts 
to let Staughton Lynd speak on campus.
—The “You may be right, but nobody is ever going to 
know it” award — to Jane Fonda and Tom Hayden, in our 
ignorance of why they won’t stop to debate the nuclear 
issue or talk to reporters^
—The “Profits aren’t everything” award — to the Colorado 
Tourist industry, which must now deal with the sad fact 
that Arnold Weber lives in that state.
—The “Winning is everything, even if it means sleeping 
three to a bed” award — to the Tartan football team who, 
despite starvation, penny-pinching and second-hand jock 
straps managed to have an unbeaten season and the honored 
crown of the President’s Athletic Conference.
—The “I’ll make you eat that tuba” award — to the many 
Donner residents who wake up at the ungodly hour of 
9:00 AM every Saturday in the fall to hear the beautiful 
music of the Kiltie Marching Band.
—The “Twenty dollars isn’t much, but we’ll take it” award 
—to the Margaret Morrison Apartment residents who received 
a $20 payment for not having desks or bookshelves in September. ... • .
—The “Needle in a haystack” award — to Pat Crecine, 
Dean of H&SS, for the outstanding teacher:student ratio in the Core Curriculum.
—The “Well, maybe I’m a crook” award — to Scott 
Sibley, yet another Student President to bite the dust.
—The “Administrators should be so honest” award — to 
Richard Van Horn, who casually remarked to the TARTAN 
at the last Trustee meeting that the budget figures handed 
out to the Trustees were “right out of Creative Writing I.”
—The “Real Hell is social probation” award — to the poor 
but creative souls of SAE, whose life-like Dante’s Inferno 
came complete with a volcano to knock out all the first 
floor windows of their house.
—The“Hell, no, we won’t go” award — to all those people 
who didn’t see KIJE! after reading the review in the TARTAN.
—The “We used to do it all for you” award — to A Phi O, 
in hopes that someday they’ll get back the Stadium food 
concession business.
—The “Oscar Mayer wrecked our day with B-O-L-O-G-N-A” 
award — to (who else?) Oscar Mayer, for his superb handling 
of the Food Service crisis.
—The “That isn’t a buzz saw, that’s the Campus radio 
station” award — to WRCT’s one (1) listener.—The “I'm just a putz” award — to Saul Carliner, editor 
of the yearbook, who managed to reverse and mis-caption 
nearly all the photos of the fraternities and sororities in this 
year’s Thistle.
—The “Students see the University as a community...We 
see it as a place to make a fast buck” award — to Yvonne 
McCredie, for finally telling everyone what nobody had the 
carelessness to admit before.
And now, for some more personal awards:
—The “I love Constitutional Law” award — to Professor 
Tom Kerr, who we dutifully think of every Sunday night as 
we worry about who the TARTAN slandered this week.
—The “Alone? Pregnant? How’d you do it?” award — to 
Mr. Alan Levine of the English Department, our resident 
critic. We are extremely grateful for the help and advice he 
has given us this year.
—The “Hey, watch me catch an X-acto knife in mid-air... 
OUCH!” award — to Jeff Zaslow, a former TARTAN 
editor-in-chief who will be leaving this institution for Walt 
Disney World, where he will play the life-size figure of 
Mickey Mouse.
—The “Lay it out, Honey, this is going to be a lot of fun” 
award — to Jeanie Pellegrini, Sue Borg’s beloved predecessor, 
who will soon be hijacking a plane to Europe.Our congratulations to those who are lucky winners — 
and to those who weren’t so lucky, we urge you to try 
harder next year.
~ AS? College Press Service
A burning letter
Editor:
I’d like to respond to Gerald 
Dalton’s letter concerning Fire 
Safety awareness, which was dis­
tributed last week to dormitory 
residents.
For those of you who did not 
read this letter, it mentioned 
several instances where some stu­
dents have been thoughtless, care­
less, and shown a total lack of 
concern for the other members 
of the campus residential com­
munity.
Mr. Dalton cited the following 
examples: (1) The misuse of
appliances—the drying of clay in a 
toaster oven, using a hand-held
blow dryer to dry clothes in a 
closed closet, and careless cooking 
of food in dorm rooms; (2) Prank 
fires—setting trash can contents 
on fire, throwing lighted rolls of 
toilet paper out of windows and 
into trees; (3) Vandalism of fire 
equipment—discharging extin­
guishers, playing with fire hoses 
etc.
True enough—these * actions 
compromise the safety of all 
residents and demonstrate a gross 
lack of forethought on the part of 
those people who commit them. 
And I agree that efforts should be 
made to make sure such situations 
are not repeated.
But I find Mr. Dalton’s letter 
somewhat hypocritical in lieu of
the long-standing policies of this 
University. Please do not mis­
understand me—I do not blame 
or accuse Mr. Dalton of anything, 
for he had repeatedly demon­
strated that he does care about 
Housing conditions and has often 
worked for improvements. Unfor­
tunately, his efforts have not been 
especially complimented by the 
Administration of Auxilary Ser­
vices or Dr. Cyert himself.
During my three years at CMU, 
students have repeatedly tried to 
get the University to correct the 
obvious and inexcusable fire hazard 
on this campus—Morewood Gar­
dens.
I, too, shall cite examples of
TARTAN
Volume 80 
Number 27 
April 29, 1980
News Editor: 
Features Editor: 
Entertainment Editor: 
Contributing Editors.
Editor-m-Chief: 
Managing Editor: 
Business Manager: 
Associate Editor: 
Production Manager: 
Jim Balsom 
Renee Rosenfeld 
Richard Gorelick 
Michael Brzustowicz,
K. MacPhee Kulak 
Jean Pellegrini
Susan Borg 
Smita Pai 
Karen Stevens 
Doug Kirsop 
Ed Zayas
Sports Editor: 
Dossier Editor: 
Photography Editor: 
Art Director:
Wesley Seeley 
Lynn Epstein 
Robert Zusman 
Tom Hart
News: Jeanne Abmayr, Assistant Editor; Beth Arden, Jim Bost, Jeanette Bryan, Linda Dickerson, Larry Duffee, Ed 
Frankenberry, Chris Gebhardt, Dan Horgan, Andre Jenkins, Mark Kennet, Kim Kunkle, Pete Levin, Joshua Medvin, 
Elliot Ohlberg, Andy Ragan, Vernon Valentine.
Features: Paul Karmin, Norman Katz, Kathy Krummert, David Land, Audrey Mojinie. ,
Entertainment: Melodie Mazzie, Theater Editor; Alan Spero, Music Editor; Tennyson Bardwell, Kate Bertrand, Alex 
Czajkowski, Bob Henry,Dave Kirby, Timothy LeVan, Bill Lazar, James Patterson, Mignon Rabineau, Scott Schaeffer, 
Paul Smith, Ted Smits, Karen Stevens, Michelle Weinberg.
Sports: Perry Colosimo, Randy Condon, Laurie Southorn, Skip Thrope, Denny Postufka, Leslie Weiser.
Production:
Photographers:Jenny Ladd, Larry Duffee, Chuck Chidekel, Skip Stong, Dave Huchette
Copyright 1980 by the Carnegie-Mellon University Tartan. All rights reserved. The Editorial Board reserves the right to 
edit or withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Government 
of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; (412) 578-2111 or 2112. 24-hour an­
swering service 2113. Business Offices: Skibo 52; (412) 578-2111. Printed by Artcrafts Unlimited, Pittsburgh, PA 15206

---------------------------------------------------

~~ view^
Poor little rich boys: why you don't want to be a millionaire
We are on our way to becom­
ing a land of millionaires. If you 
do not achieve this once exalted 
status, almost surely your children 
or grandchildren will.
If, for example, you currently 
earn $20,000 a year and inflation 
continues at 14% per year (as this 
is being written the inflation rate 
is exceeding 14% in many parts of 
the country), you will be earning 
$1, 280, 000 a year in 30 years, if. 
you keep up with inflation. If 
your net worth is $75,000 and it 
keeps up with inflation you will 
have a net worth of $1, 200, 000 
in just 20 years. Unfortunately, in 
25 years a $1 burger will cost $32, 
a $10 shirt will cost $320, a $25 
pair of shoes will set you back 
$800, a $5, 000 car will require 
$160, 000 and a $75, 000 house 
will be selling for $2,400, 000.
So there will be little advantage 
in being a millionaire. But if your 
income keeps up with rising 
prices, something that seems to be 
increasingly harder to do, should 
not you at least be staying even? 
The answer is no. Inflation is 
going to do more than just make 
you a millionaire, it is going to 
make you a poor millionaire.
Under the existing tax system 
as your inflationary income in­
creases you will be forced into 
higher income tax brackets. Your
income may keep up with infla­
tion but you will be able to buy 
less than before because a larger 
share of your income will be going 
to the government.
For instance, in 1977 the typi­
cal family of four made $15,000 
and paid 9% of this income to the 
federal government in income tax. 
If the inflation rate averages just 
7% a year, and this family’s in­
come increases at the same rate, 
by 1987 the federal income tax 
will claim 18% of their income. 
Even though their before tax 
income will have stayed even with 
inflation, in terms of what this 
family can buy with its after tax 
income they will be approximate­
ly 9% worse off. And this does 
not consider the inflationary 
impact of state, local, and social 
security taxes on their spendable 
income.
This is not all. Because of infla­
tion you are also losing on your 
savings account. By federal law 
banks and savings and loan asso­
ciations are not permitted to pay 
much over 5% on pass book 
accounts. So if you have $1000 in 
a savings account earning 5%%, 
after one year your savings, in­
cluding interest, will be worth less 
than the $1000 is now. In one 
year you will have $1057.50 in 
your savings account, (ignoring
daily compounding of interest) 
but if inflation is 10% it will take 
$1100 in a year to buy what 
$1000 will buy today.
To the injury of inflation 
government adds insult by taxing 
you on your loss. Even though the 
$57.50 in interest on your $1000 
savings did not keep up with in­
flation the government treats it as 
income and levies a tax on it. So 
that, if you have a taxable income 
of $26,000 and the inflation rate 
is 9%, you will have to earn 
approximately 17% on your 
savings just to break even. It is not 
surprising that saving money has 
ceased to be an attractive option 
for most of us.
Right now we are saving less 
than 5% of our disposable income, 
one of the lowest savings rate 
among the major industrial na­
tions of the world. In Japan, for 
example, almost 25% of dispo­
sable income is saved and this 
saving rate is over 15% in West 
Germany. The result is that Japan 
and West Germany, as well as 
many other countries, have been 
increasing their productivity much 
more rapidly than has the US, 
where productivity has increased 
hardly at all iri the last few years. 
For lower savings means lower 
investment; lower investment in 
capital and equipment means
Why has so little been done to 
control inflation? It is not because 
no one knows how to control it. 
Economists have known for cen­
turies that inflation is caused by 
increasing the money supply more 
rapidly than the increase in pro­
ductivity. Only by controlling the 
money supply can inflation be 
controlled. And since the money 
supply is controlled by the federal 
government inflation can be con­
trolled by our representatives in 
Washington if they chose to do so.
Unfortunately, it is very popu­
lar to vote for expanded govern­
ment programs on the one hand, 
while voting for tax reductions on 
the other. This necessarily results 
in the budget deficits that have 
become the trademark of the 
federal government.
The federal government has 
run a deficit in 18 of the last
19 years, managing to spend 380 
billion dollars more than it has 
raised in taxes. The enormous size 
of the recent deficits has made it 
impossible to cover them entirely 
through borrowing. The alterna­
tive has been for the Federal 
Reserve System to cover the re­
maining debt by creating new 
money. In recent years approxi­
mately 40% of the federal deficits 
have been covered through the 
creation of money. The result ha«
been k rapid growth in the money 
supply and the longest inflation in 
our nation’s historv.
But hope for containing infla­
tion is not completely unfounded. 
People are becoming increasingly 
knowledgeable as to the source of 
inflation and painfully aware of 
its costs. Politicians are finally 
beginning to get the message that 
their constituents are serious 
about reducing governmental 
extravagance, and are responding, 
if somewhat reluctantly.
There is increasing enthusiam 
for changes, such as the balanced 
budget amendment and across the 
board expenditure restrictions, 
which will make it more difficult 
for the federal budget to increase 
relative to the size of the rest of 
the economy. Whatever the merit 
of these specific proposals, until 
some discipline is imposed on the 
political process, swollen budgets 
and increasing inflation will con­
tinue to be the news out of Wash­
ington. But if we let our political 
representatives know that we have 
had it with inflation and the 
undisciplined government spend­
ing behind it, then just maybe we 
can prevent our children from 
becoming millionaires.
(This View was written by 
Dwight R. Lee, Professor of Eco­
nomics at Virgina Polytech.)
the fire hazards students have to 
deal with:
—Morewood has not had a 
scheduled fire drill this semester. 
This is somewhat suspicious, as 
the fraternities across the street, 
Mudge, and the Hill dorms con­
tinue to have a monthly drill.
—It has been reported in the 
TARTAN and demonstrated on 
several occasions (during false 
alarms, fortunately) that More- 
wood’s brand new fire alarm
system no longer works. The 
alarms do go off when they
shouldn’t and don’t when they 
should, and those marvelous 
safety doors that close off the'old, 
more convient main entrance no 
longer open when the alarm
sounds.
-Morewood Gardens has no 
fire escapes. But then, it’s only 
seven stories high.
-The stairwells of A, B, C, 
and D towers are right across
the hall from each other.
Now that you all know these 
facts, let’s pretend. A fire starts 
in Morewood—what happens 
next? (Pick several)
(a) The 800 or so residents of 
Morewood trample each other to 
death as they crowd out the one 
regular exit;
(b) A group throws the lobby 
furniture through one of the 
lobby windows, and escapes 
(What’s that you say? No lobby 
furniture, except for those 
functional blocks? Oh, well, 
throw a person or two, then).
(c) The students on the upper 
floors pour into the small stair­
wells but, much to their surprise, 
they find that the fire which 
started in one tower has spread 
across the lobby and into all the 
other stairwells. Gosh. Too bad.
(d) Those people who never 
quite made it through Physics I 
decide that they can jump from 
their windows. The first floor 
ones almost walk away from the 
flames, except the men and 
women who jumped from the 
6th floor carelessly land on them.
However, as bad as this sounds, 
the Morewood residents are tough. 
They’re prepared for all of this. 
Who can forget the great little 
fire in the Food Service laundry 
room, where the smoke was 
sucked right up to the top of A 
tower? Luckily, this was a small 
fire, and the smoke wasn’t bad. 
But Morewood residents need 
more practice if they’re going to 
be expected to breathe in a major 
fire. And practices should be held 
soon, because the faulty wiring, 
and leaky pipes spell electrical fire, 
not to mention electrocution.
All of this was brought up last 
year when the SDC Housing Com­
mittee rewrote the Housing con­
tract. When those concerned stu­
dents questioned the status of 
Morewood, they were told that 
the building was up to standards 
and Fire codes...for the year it 
was built, which was around 
1920. When these same students 
asked that fire escapes be in­
stalled, they received vague an­
swers implying that such structures 
weren’t necessary and besides, 
there was no money for such a 
silly project.
Perhaps I sound a little sar­
castic, a little bit too angry. But 
then, I live on the second floor- 
I might get out singed, but alive.
Come on, folks, take a little 
interest in your welfare. Don’t 
let the people who run this 
University run your life too. - If 
you need some suggestions about
what you can do, try these:
(1) Stop by Dr. Cyert’s office 
or Oscar Mayer’s (Director of 
Auxilary Services) and ask about 
what’s being done. If that’s too 
far to walk, (2) call either or both 
of them. Keep them busy and 
thinking about what you’re un­
happy about. (3) Have your 
parents call. Since many of them 
pay the bills, watch how fast 
things change when money and 
outside image of this institution 
change. But if you’re really stuck, 
(4) Send them a short letter 
telling them how you feel. Their 
address is Warner Hall, Campus 
Mail (no stamp required).
We’ve got to keep reminding 
them that they are here for us, 
because of us, and without us 
they would all be out of a job.
And while you’re at it, tell 
your SDC representative and 
Senator your concerns. But you 
better not leave it all up to them— 
make sure You are getting the 
service that you deserve.
John Alexander 
Andrew would roll over .... 
Editor:
There is violence at CMU. There 
are groups that are consistently 
involved in these acts of violence, 
regardless of provocation. But why 
is action never taken in these in­
stances? The answer must be that 
there is no need for action. What 
job conscious administrator would 
take disciplinary action over a few 
small medical bills and a little 
blood? Think of all the man hours 
saved. Certainly there must be the 
attitude at a school steeped in the 
capitalistic traditions of Andrew 
Carnegie. When will our adminis­
trators take action? Will it take a 
death? Certainly nothing that 
severe; probably only a maiming,
or any other incident that might 
involve a big money and bad press 
lawsuit. These seem solid grounds 
for worrying about student safety. 
We can all be confident, however, 
that they will act quickly and de­
cisively at that time, leaving no 
doubt that violence will not be 
put up with here at CMU.
Perhaps, I’m out of line, trying 
to second guess educators on how 
to educate. Maybe a good fight on 
Saturday night is essential to a 
complete college education, and 
we do get one here. Remember 
those statistics we are always pro­
vided with? CMU turns out stu­
dents that can perform the job as 
well as students from any of those 
elite institutions of learning. What 
other goals could an educator 
have? Why should anyone waste 
time on something as insignificant 
as student welfare? As long as atti­
tudes like these prevade CMU and 
until a few administrators start 
worrying a little about their 
means and not just their ends 
(whether figuratively or the one 
they’re sitting on), CMU will 
remain just a school in Pittsburgh. 
But then again, wouldn’t Andrew 
be proud!
James M. Wright
But it's our grave 
Editor:
In the spirit of a carnival a 
bunch of students and I were act­
ing pretty crazy. Marching in blue 
and red masks we came together 
on the cut April 18 and 19 and 
symbolically nuked each other to 
pieces. There was a serious inten­
tion behind this feverish activity. 
We wanted to alert other students 
and local community members to 
the very close possibility of a 
nuclear war, and to portray how 
sadly ridiculous it would be.
In this letter I don’t merely 
intend to radiate the TARTAN with 
more images of doom and destruc­
tion — the upcoming exams and 
final reports are impending 
enough. But I would like to out­
line some of the facts and ideas 
which inspired the generation of 
our pantomine group with the 
hope of spurring other CMU stu­
dents to action as well:
— The federal government has pre­
dicted 140 million Americans 
would die in a nuclear war.
— The huge firestorms created by 
a nuclear explosion (today, hun­
dreds of times more powerful 
than Hiroshima’s explosion) would 
use up all the oxygen in a targeted 
area, asphyxiating even those in 
fallout shelters.
— Anyone surviving a nuclear war 
would have a hard time surviving. 
They would be psychologically 
devastated. The water would be 
highly radioactive. There would 
be no food left. The ozone layer 
may be so depleted as to make the 
sun unbearable. Disease would be­
come rampant, feeding on the 
millions of corpses.
— Many nuclear scientists predict 
we have a 40% chance of making 
it to year 2000.
— Last November 9th we came ex­
tremely close to a nuclear war. 
Someone in the Pentagon stuck a 
war games tape into a supposedly 
failsafe computer and the Ameri­
can early warning systems went 
off around the world. It was dis­
covered in six minutes. In 20 
minutes it would have been too 
late (That is the current time limit 
for a retaliatory attack).
— “ Just one of our relatively 
invulnerable Posiedon submarines- 
comprising less than two per­
cent of our total nuclear force—

---------------------------------------------------

carries enough warheads to de­
stroy every large and medium:, 
sized city in the Soviet Union.”- 
President Carter, State of the 
Union Message, January 23, 1979.
— Carter has approved a $30 to 
$40 billion program to construct
20 MX missiles. Yet in his own ad­
ministration’s 1979 Arms Control 
Impact Statement it is said that 
these missiles might cause the 
Soviets to “perceive pressures to 
strike first themselves. Such a con­
dition, of course, would be un­
stable.”
— Lientief has calculated that one 
million dollars spent on military 
equipment generates only 50% as 
many jobs as a similar investment 
in the civilian sector.
— Lasers and anti-ballistic missiles 
are as offensive weapons, but ex­
tremely sensible for shooting 
bombs out of the air. If developed 
they would be a perfect defense 
against nuclear attack, thus making 
our dangerous and expensive 
M.A.D. (Mutually Assured De­
struction) policy obsolete. Yet de­
velopment of these systems has 
been checked by the SALT I 
treaty. There is no money in it for 
the Pentagon and its industrial 
friends.
— Senator William Proxmire’s 
hearings of 1969 revealed that the 
top 100 contractors for the mili­
tary hired over 2,000 officers of 
the rank of colonel or above — 
including ex-admirals and generals. 
In other words a general can make 
a contract for a weapon s/he will 
one day sell. This is the basis for 
what is called the military-indus- 
trial complex.
— The U.S. now has enough 
nuclear warheads to destroy the 
Earth twelve times over.
— Historically, we’ve never devel­
oped a weapon we didn’t use.
Eben Fisher 
Art. Soph.
Remembering Prof. Prine 
Editor,
Charles W. Prine departed from 
this life a couple of weeks ago at 
the age of 88. Not many people 
noticed and not many people 
now on the campus even knew 
him. He joined the faculty of the 
Physics Department in 1917 and, 
gave it 51 years of his life (a 
CMU track record, by the way). 
After his retirement in 1968 he 
took a position teaching physics 
at a private school until shortly 
before his death.
For those who do not remem­
ber Charles Prine, there are no 
neutral feelings. You loved him or 
you hated him. Those who dared 
to come to his class unprepared or 
to give it less than their best ef­
forts felt his wrath and scorn, 
applied without mercy. Those 
who tried hard to do their best 
were richly rewarded with his ap­
proval, guidance, and encourage­
ment.
When I came to Carnegie Tech 
as a freshman in the fall of 1948, 
it was Charles Prine who first in­
troduced me to the beauty and 
challenge of physics. By today’s 
standards he was not a great phy­
sicist, but he was a great physics 
teacher, and his influence altered 
the course of my life profoundly.
Although he is gone from this 
world, he lives on in the inspira­
tion he gave his students, and that 
will not be forgotten. Goodbye 
Prof. Prine, and thank you!
Hugh D. Young 
Professor of Physics
Title IX
Editor:
Although Spring Carnival was 
great this year, I do have one com­
plaint.
I understand* why only a first 
place girl’s sweepstakes trophy 
was given; there was less compe­
tition in the girl’s race and reason­
ably they could not expect the 
same number of awards. However 
I am curious why the trophy was 
so much smaller than any of the 
men’s trophies, and why it was 
smaller than even the 3rd place 
fraternity booth trophy. The qual­
ity of the trophy seemed lacking 
in comparison also. And finally 
why was each member of the win­
ning men's team and the driver 
given medals while the women’s 
team was given nothing? Maybe 
next year’s buggy chairperson 
should take this into consideration 
when ordering next year’s awards.
Kim Ames
Band of the Free
Editor.
I am not an enthusiastic fan 
of new-wave music, but I would 
say that there is a good percentage 
of the campus community that is 
or is becoming new-wave fans. So 
why can't they also have the ad­
vantage of going to a concert or 
party and enjoy the music they 
get into, without being harassed?
What I saw last Friday night at 
the Blowout party (held in More- 
wood) really disgusted me. Yes, 
there were a few people there, 
eager fans of new-wave, who were 
dressed differently— so differently 
that they attracted much attention 
at the party. I imagine that they 
are aware of their appearance 
and anticipate some attention 
wherever they go. but must they 
also expect to be harrassed just 
because they dress the way they 
want to?
Granted their appearance was 
not what many are accustomed to,
I still could not see. in any way, 
that their attire was offensive or 
obscene. Yet. a few, select indi­
viduals seemed so disgusted by 
some of the new-wavers that it 
looked as if they were ready to 
pounce on them. If they were so 
disgusted, why didn’t they just 
leave the party instead of sticking 
around and waiting for an oppor­
tunity to maybe get a few punches 
in?
From what I could see, the 
new-wave fans kept to themselves. 
They came to the party to enjoy 
the music, but unfortunately 
some were forced to deal with 
criticism and even violence. One 
new-waver came running into the 
Rec Room yelling for some pro­
tection from one of the usual 
instigators of fights on this cam­
pus. I tend to believe that if any­
thing, it was started by a snide 
remark directed towards a new- 
waver who in turn was “bold” 
enough to stand up to the remark.
Of course this meant that it 
was time to get his head beat in 
because now he was .looking for 
trouble. Boy, some people really 
have vivid imaginations.
Last time their excuse was that 
they were so pro-draft and were 
against the anti-draft benefit in 
More wood. This time the only 
obvious thing that angered them 
was another’s appearance or their 
music. Well, perhaps I could bet­
ter understand your ways of 
thinking if you beat some sense 
into my head as well as theirs.
What kind of campus is it that 
stunts the progress of new music 
and the people who follow it? 
College campuses are always the 
first to accept changes in Ameri­
can culture, particularly in music. 
One can’t help but notice that be­
cause of a “few, select individuals” 
this campus is being denied the 
freedom... no, the right to have a 
good time. Who do these guys 
think they are? And when these 
“individuals” host parties do they 
bring the campus police along? Or 
do they only invite the police 
over for Morewood parties?
Suzanne M. Chan
Looking at the League
Editor:
There are some facts and points 
of view about the Jewish Defense 
League that are omitted from Mark 
Kennet’s article about them in last 
week’s TARTAN. It is important 
that these be known, lest people 
get the idea that the JDL is simply 
a good-hearted militant Jewish 
civil rights organization of some 
' sort. 1
First, it should be revembered 
that Rabbi Meir Kahane is an ex- 
CIA agent. This is not an idle, un­
documented charge. He wrote a 
book about his experiences in the 
CIA. He is not in the least repen­
tant of having worked for that 
criminal organization.
Second, the JDL was founded 
in the late 1960’s in New York 
City. It may deny being racist all 
it wants. The fact is that few or­
ganizations did more in New York 
City to foster an enmity between 
Jews and Blacks. Repeated violent 
attacks on Black people in Brook­
lyn, the creation in the Jewish 
community of a false image of 
Blacks as raving anti-Semites ready 
to engage in pogroms against Jews, 
and in general a policy of acting as 
shock troops for Albert Shanker’s 
attacks on the efforts of the Black 
community to secure a better 
education for their children marked 
the policies of the JDL in New 
York. Far from combatting a 
largely mythical Black anti-Semi- 
tism, the JDL strove to create a 
Jewish racism.
Third, these “novel protests 
against the Soviet Union’s harass­
ment of Jewish citizens” have often 
included violence directed against 
Soviet citizens and employees of 
Soviet agencies, and have generally 
gone unpunished in the United 
States. Such attacks have, in ad­
dition. often been directed at 
Americans interested in foster­
ing cultural relations with the 
Soviet Union. We need only re­
call the bombing of the office of
the late Sol Hurok, the Jewish 
imprisario who did so much to 
bring leading Soviet artists to the 
United States; his secretary was 
killed in this attack.
Furthermore, stink bombs, 
smoke bombs, and the like have 
been used to disrupt concerts and 
recitals by Soviet artists in the 
United States, which punish 
Americans interested in Soviet 
culture as much as anyone else. 
The JDL has also not been above 
shooting up the Soviet Mission to 
the UN (in one such attack, in 
1971, four children who were in 
the office barely escaped with 
their lives) and. bombing the 
offices of Aeroflot, the Soviet air­
line. Just who are the terrorists 
around here?
Finally, we might note that the 
JDL today, in Israel, works with 
the Gush Emunim, the ultra­
right wing religious fanatics, in its 
efforts to drive Palestinians out of 
Hebron and other West Bank 
cities in order to make the West 
Bank an integral part of Israel. 
Such activity can only be describ­
ed as racist chauvinism. The idea 
that because Jews ran Hebron two 
thousand years ago, they have the 
right to drive out the people living 
there now, is abhorrent to any­
one who believes in the equality 
of human beings. By that logic, 
the Irish, Scots, and Welch ought 
to drive all the Englesh out of 
Great Britain and send them back 
to western Germany, and set up 
a Celtic republic with its capital 
at London. Such revanchism, re­
gardless of the sufferings endured 
by some of its advocates in the in­
tervening historical periods, can 
never be justified.
It is especially important that 
Jews understand clearly the danger 
of an organization like the JDL. 
For us to claim that the lesson 
of the Holocaust is that we too 
should become nationalists of the 
most narrow-minded, xenophobic 
and chauvinist type, is really to 
hand the victory to the Nazis. For 
it is to deny pricisely that which 
the Jewish tradition has the most 
to be proud of, namely its inter­
nationalism, its humanism, its 
fundamental belief, expressed by 
people as far apart in time as the 
prophet Isaiah and the great Yid­
dish writers I.L. Peretz and Sholem 
Aleichem, in the brotherhood of 
all peoples. It is to eviscerate the 
spirit of Jewish culture and to re­
place it by the mere hollow shell
of a formal unity allowing for no 
freedom of thought, debate and 
discussion. It is, in short, to sound 
the death knell of what is worth 
preserving in the Jewish spirit.
If any sense at all is to be made 
of the slogan “Never again”, it 
must not be, as the JDL would 
have it, “Never again a time when 
Jews don’t have somebody to kick 
in the teeth with impunity”, but 
it must rather be, “Never again a 
time when racism, chauvinism, 
imperialism can so subjugate and 
destroy ANY people as they de­
stroyed the Jews of Europe a 
generation ago.”
Daniel Mark Rosenblum
So eat the paper
Dear Editor:
In my years as a CMU student I 
have had the pleasure of 
—Eating 850 hot hoagies in the 
grill
—Took 30 finals, 140 exams, 20 
quizzes and 4 take homes 
—Used $1000 worth of computer 
time
—Pulled 40 all-nighters 
—Did 90 papers, 600 homework 
sets and 10 final projects 
-Witnessed 3 Spring Carnivals 
(I was away this year) 4 home­
comings, 8 registrations, 4 pre­
registrations and the changing of 
a department head 
—Used 9 add/drop slips, filled out 
5 transcript requests, signed up 
for 10 interviews and received 16 
grade reports
—Raid $15,000 for tuition, $4500 
for food and $3000 for board 
and all I have to show for it is 
a piece of paper.
A tired senior 
Dave Radack
Horse sense
Editor:
It’s a week or so before I go 
I graduate real soon 
And I am sure it comes before 
The very next full moon.
Please always remember and never 
forget
These words the TARTAN brings 
And those of you who know me 
too
Can see that my heart sings.
Atop the campus I see you all 
And wonder if its true 
Leaving is the only word 
That really makes me Blue.
Can’t you see I want to be 
In the midst of wonder 
It took this long to realize 
That Learning is the thunder.
But now I’m striking like a bolt 
Into my new lightning 
‘cause- now I start a strange new 
job
That little 8 to 5 thing.
This little poem just says farewell 
But I’ll be back some day 
Hope is never to tight for w6rds 
So jump with me in Hay.
Adios Amigos 
Doug Bauman
Thanks
Editor:
On behalf of Activities Board 
Lectures, Dance, and Tech Com­
mittees, as well as SDC, we would 
like to thank John Eichmueller 
and his staff for their co-opera­
tion in last minute planning of 
the end of the year BLOWOUT 
Party* The weather wasn’t with us 
but the Morewood Cafeteria was 
our second bet. Thanks.
Ervin Lee 
Mike Jamgocian 
Bob DiMartino 
Ken Cohn
Your courses at CMU—good to the last ‘drop’

---------------------------------------------------

April 29,1980 - TARTAN - Page 5
THEYflECASHFOR YËRPAYiK
«
mm
UJe buy all titles having resale market value.
May 5&B 10 to 4 Baker Hall
Hamerschlag's vending machine is kidnapped
by Jim Balsom
Last Tuesday night at approximately 8:00, the vending 
machine in Hamerschlag’s lounge was kidnapped by the 
residents of first floor A wing. The ransom note left behind 
demanded that, for its safe return, good food must be pro­
vided. “We get very hungry before finals” a second note 
claimed.
Campus Police discovered the machine in Eric DeSimone 
and Ken Henry’s room (A112 ’Schlag); they claimed that 
half the floor knew of the “kidnapping.” Tom Knapp, a 
resident of Hamerschlag said that the machine had been 
filled only once since Spring Break, despite repeated pleas 
to Canteen to provide better service. DeSimone said they 
took the machine in hopes that it would prove a point, and 
Canteen would do their job.
At Wednesday’s Student Dorm Council meeting, a resolu­
tion was passed and sent to Canteen Corporation demand­
ing an “increase in service quality to dorms” and requesting 
the administration that “any bid (to continue service) by 
Canteen Corporation be refused if the quality of service... 
is not immediatly improved.”
Yvonne McCredie, Student Services Coordinator for 
Auxiliary Services, said that Canteen is supposed to be on 
campus seven times a week, Monday thru Friday, but that 
any number of things could be causing certain areas to be 
neglected, though they should have been corrected by now. 
She said that the “most efficient way for a machine to be 
serviced” is to call John Halladay at x2138. If he isn’t 
there, a tape machine will take all the necessary informa­
tion. McCredie concluded by saying that “it is so simple to 
get good service,... this is something students should put 
pressure on.”
* mir
“«HAH Med
Good]
Wma
Ransom note from Hamerschlag residents.
Trustees discuss robotics, salaries, Hunt Institute
% I
by Susan Borg
The Board of Trustees of Carnegie-Mel- 
lon University met last Wednesday in the 
penthouse of the Hunt Library. Also atten­
ding the meeting was Student Government 
President, Ralph Sherman, former editor-in 
cheif of the TARTAN, Jean Pelligirini and 
Susan Borg, the current editor-in-chief.
Trustee Tod Hunt began the meeting 
with a short talk about the Hunt Institute 
for Botanical Documentation which was 
donated to CMU by his parents. Hunt 
stressed that he wanted the Trustees to 
know “what the Institute.was about” and 
that he wanted it to be “an integral part of 
the University.”
Trustee Bob Dickey made his report to 
the nominating committee and then voted 
D.M. Roderick, President of United States 
Steel, as the new Chairman of the Board. 
Dickey concluded his report by saying, 
“this is a very interesting Board for the fu­
ture—there is representation from the arts 
and all the areas that should be guiding the 
university.”
President Cyert made his progress report 
and was happy to say that CMU will have 
“another year in the black.” He reported 
that presently all gifts and grants to the u- 
niversity are going to capital: “We are ope­
rating more like a business; generating o- 
peration money for operations.” Cyert 
reported an expected $86,000 net surplus. 
Cyert also spoke about CMU’s energy
saving year. He attributed the savings to 
the mild winter and the formation of an 
energy committee headed by Dean Berg.
He continued his report saying that 
CMU will continue to put 10% of its 
operating expenses into financial aid. “This 
prevents a student body that is polarized- 
with only the rich and the poor.” Cyert 
is committed to supporting the middle 
class.
The one negative note in the President’s 
report was his concern about faculty sala­
ries. “We haven’t made as much progress 
as we had hoped,” he said, but Cyert is 
determined to move the salaries up.
Finally, Cyert announced a search for a 
new president for the Carnegie Institute of 
Research, and the appointments of Floyd 
Humphreys as the new head of Electrical 
Engineering, A. N. Haberman as the head 
of the Computer Science Department, and 
Mel Shapiro as the new Drama Department 
Head.
Following Cyert’s report, Trustee Jon 
Swearington presented his report on 
the Investments in Progress campaign. The 
campaign has presently raised $91 million 
of their $100 million goal.
Dean Berg reported on the Robotics 
Institute and explained what a robot 
was an4 why CMU is a good place to have 
a Robotics Institute. Berg claims that CMU' 
has a “leg up in this area” and that every 
college will feel an impact from the Insti­
tute which will draw applications from 
psychology, design, business and public 
affairs, for example.
Berg also stated that the nature of the 
funding for the Robotics Institute is 
“breaking new ground in university and 
industry relations” because it is an “actual 
working partnership.”
Ralph Sherman spoke to the Trustees 
on behalf of the student body. Sherman 
cited two types of problems for the stu­
dents: problems between student organiza­
tions and problems between students and 
the administration.” Sherman commented 
that both types of problem are a result of 
poor communications. But, Sherman 
added, “no problem is unworkable.”
Sherman stressed the importance of the 
“students’ view of the university”; he 
noted examples of poor student view of 
the university during the food service 
uproar and the current reallocation of 
student activities space to make room for 
the Robotics Instutute. Sherman then 
stated that “it is clear that students have 
given and can continue to give valuable 
input” into administrative decision-making.
Sherman than attacked Cyert’s 
reasoning behind the likely $700 tuition 
hike: “simply raising the cost will not 
make us better. Students will be having 
greater difficulty attending school and they 
will be scrutinizing every dollar spent on 
education,” he added.
Finally Sherman cautioned the
Trustees: “don’t forget the difficulties
of affording school and the needs of the
students.”Professor Gene Levy, Chairman of the
Faculty Senate, followed Sherman and
spoke on behalf of the faculty. Levy stated
that the faculty is the university. He
pointed out that universities can exist
without students, administrators and
trustees, but “the activities, interests and
concerns of the faculty are at the core of
the university.” Levy stressed that “the
faculty ought to be concerned in the
governance of the university.”
The meeting concluded with thanks to
Donald C. Burnham who served five
years as the Chairman of the Board of
Trustees.
You there :Andrew Carnegie, despite such horrors
as the Homestead strike, actually did say 
some" rather interesting things. And one of 
them is the motto of our school:‘'My Heart 
is in the Work.” So our hearts are in this 
paper, and in our efforts to provide a place 
for you to write whatever you feel and, if 
you want, find out what’s happening on 
the rest of the campus%
Wei! be back in the fall, with new ideas 
here and there, and the same desire to pro­
vide the best student newspaper possible.
Have a good summer.
The TARTAN Staff

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6 - TARTAN - April 29, 1980
AIESEC gains 17 positions in Africajapan, Sweden, Turkey
by Maureen Brennan
Turkey, Ghana, Ireland, Japan, and 
Sweden are just a few of the countries 
where AIESEC members from the Pitts­
burgh area will be working during the up­
coming year. 17 of CMU’s 22 applicants 
for foriegn traineeships were matched at 
the AIESEC International Congress held in 
Chicago last March. This Congress was the 
culmination of a year’s work on about 400 
college campuses in 56 countries around 
the world.
Members of each local committee mar­
ket the Traineeship Exchange to area busi­
nesses, securing jobs with international 
management experience for students from 
other countries. A local committee can 
send one student abroad for each trainee­
ship it raises. In 1979, 7 CMU students 
went abroad; this year 17 received that 
opportunity.
Lynne Hyatt left for Finland last week; 
she will work there for 3 months on a 
special project organized by the Interna­
tional Social Security Association. Rhonda 
Righter and Joanne Sprentz are planning
GSO moves to
continued from page 1
meeting, causing Senate to loose its 
quorum. Not being able to conduct any 
business, the meeting was over.
Ralph Sherman, however, as President 
of Student Government called an emer­
gency meeting of the Senate to convene 
immediately. He set the agenda to discuss 
an allocation of up to SI0,000 for the 
Kiltie Band, recognition of the Committee 
to look into the Margaret Morrison Street 
Store fronts and to discuss action which 
may be taken because the House of Repre­
sentatives passed its Draft legislation.
Walt Young (GSIA) tried to have the
their summers around their traineeships 
in Norway. Rhonda will be doing systems 
analysis and operations research for a sav­
ings bank, and Joanne will be studying 
administrative and organizational efficeiney 
for a bank there.
Vandervliet Wernink Beheer NV. a 
holding company in Amsterdam, will be 
employing Ken Rapp. His experience in 
micro-economics will be furthered by 
special study there on a construction pro­
ject. Peter Joyce received a traineeship 
in statistics with Aer Lingus; he will be 
Working in Dublin, Ireland for the summer. 
Albani Bfeweries Ltd. in Denmark provided 
a traineeship for Ken Boyd, who will be 
doing a rotation through their export 
market analysis, product planning, and de­
velopment departments.
Barb Bittle will spend the month of 
August in France. Her job involves compu­
ter science and financial accounting for 
Credit Mutuel Champagne Ardenne, a sav­
ings bank.
Three students were matched to jobs in 
Turkey. Mary Jo Maffei will be in Istanbul
independence
GSO item added to the agenda. Senator 
Carl Friedman said that if it was, he would 
leave the meeting, causing Senate to loose 
its quorum again. At that point Chairman 
Mike Inners stated that should a Senator 
leave the meeting, he would ask the Senate 
to take disciplinary action against that 
person.
By a vote of 4-7-2, the GSO was not 
added to the agenda.
The meeting concluded with Senate 
approving a resolution asking that a tuition 
increase be held to S500, letters being sent 
to Pennsylvania’s Senators concerning the 
draft, and Kiltie Band getting its money.
working for an international bank: Dan 
Nichols will be doing statistics and finan­
cial planning for a transportation and 
storage company there. Damien Boseo 
chose not to accept his traineeship, an
through a program known as Twinning; the 
chapter in Oslo. Norway was previously 
twinned with our committee. This rela­
tionship allows for the direct exchange of 
students between each twin ~ this year 
Dave Sochol will be traveling to Oslo, and- 
Ilene Steiner will spend 3 months in Hone; 
Kong. Dave will be working for a comnuin-
opportunity to work for a manufacturing 
firm in Izmir, Turkey.
During this past year. CMU established 
a relationship with AIESFC- Hong Kongcontinued on page 18
The Planning Committee for the Margaret Morrison Street Storefront 
Complex is issuing this questionaire to receive student input concerning 
the storefronts. This questionnaire focuses on one which will house a 
restaurant. Some of the questions have been designed to accept one or 
more response. Please circle all appropriate answers and specify any ad­
ditional comments.
1. What hours would you like to see a rest­
aurant in operation?
a. 24 hours
b. 9 AM to 9 PM
c. 7 PM to 10 AM
d. Weekends 24 hours
e. other *
2. Would you prefer a restaurant run by
a. students
b. food service (vali-dine)
c. other
3. What type of food would you like the 
restaurant to serve?
a. eggs and omlets
b. hamburgers, steak sandwiches,hoagies
c. pizza
d. cold sandwiches
e. salads
f. natural foods (fresh fruits and vege­
tables)
g. ice cream
h. fresh baked goodsi. »soup
j. fried goods
k. vegetarian menu 
“ 1. breakfast goods. . 
m. other
4. What type of features would you like to 
see?
a. gallery space
b. student entertainment
c. stereo system
d. juke box
e. small stage-open stage amatuer nights
f. other
5. Would you like a take-out service?
a. yes
b. no
Please rate the following suggestions for 
the other store fronts, 1 = like,2 = indifer- 
ent, 3 = dislike.
1. Laundromat 1 2 3
2. Arcade-Amusement 1 2 3
3. Service Mall 1 2 3
4. Deli-General Store 1 2 3
5. Soda Fountain 1 2 3
6. other
Return to Planning Committee for Margaret Morrison Street Storefront, 
Box 986, Donner Hall.
¦âiaiiiiiiiiiiiinmiiiiiiiiDiiiiiimiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiDiiiiiimiiiaiimiiiiiiintmiiiimiDimmiimamiiiimiig
I i
âiiiHiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiHiiiiaiimiiniiiDiiiiiiiitiiiaiiiHiiiiiiiDiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiDit
5th
Annual
win 
C
FREE
T-SHIRT!

---------------------------------------------------

___________________________features
Equal Rights Amendment: equality long overdue
by Susan McDougall
A controversial issue presently existing 
in the United States is the decision of 
whether or not to pass the Equal Rights 
Amendment, which would be the Twenty- 
seventh Amendment to the Constitution. 
The ERA was written by Alice Paul, and 
was first introduced into Congress in 1923. 
However, the issue of equal rights existed 
long before Alice Paul wrote this amend­
ment. Unfair treatment, especially of 
women, has occured in the past, and is 
occuring now.
The United States is a country based on 
the principle of equality for all people. 
Yet, half of the population, the female 
half, is being excluded from this principle - 
which is also a basis for our laws. The 
purpose of the ERA is to correct this.
The ERA is composed of three sections. 
Section one states simply that, “Equality 
of rights under the law shall not be denied 
or abridged by the United States or any 
state on account of sex.” Section two 
states: ‘The Congress shall have the
power to enforce, by appropriate legisla­
tion the provisions of this article.” Finally, 
section three declares that, “This Amend­
ment shall take effect two years after the 
date of ratification.”
. .half of the population, the female half, is being excluded from this principle (of equality).”
Obviously, opposition to the ERA 
exists, thus delaying its ratification. People 
against the ERA believe that the ratifica­
tion will disrupt the family structure 
and increase the divorce rate. Op­
ponents also fear that the ERA will 
promote the legalization of homosexual 
marriages, and even integrated toilet faci­
lities. Yet, the biggest myth spread by the 
opposition is that the ERA will submit 
women to the draft and to military service.
The Equal Rights Amendment, as stated 
by Congresswoman Dwyer of New Jersey is 
the debate of the House of Representatives 
on the Equal Rights Amendment, “would
not take women out of the home. It would 
not downgrade the roles of mother and 
housewife. Indeed it would give new dig­
nity to these important roles ... the 
Equal Rights Amendment can only 
enhance the status of traditional women’s 
occupations.”
Secondly, since Pennsylvania has 
written an ERA into its Constitution, the 
divorce rate has not shot up. It has 
increased somewhat—as it has elsewhere— 
but it remains well below the national 
average.
‘... the ERA can only enhance the status of traditional women’s occupations.”
Thirdly, homosexual marriages will 
not be legalized with the passing of the 
ERA. In fact, those states with ERAs have 
uniformly held that the ERA is concerned 
with laws affecting persons of different 
sexes, not with the relationship of persons 
of the same sex, and therefore cannot be 
applied to this issue.”
Finally, concerning the draft and mili­
tary service, “Women have not now, nor 
have they ever had exemption from 
combat that couldn’t be taken from them 
by an act of Congress.”
If the ERA is passed, it would cause 
many positive results and many important 
legal changes. It would encourage higher 
education for women, and equal employ­
ment opportunities. The passing of the 
ERA would also benefit men in several 
ways.
When the Amendment is passed, many 
biased laws will be changed. The right of 
support for the homemaking spouse will 
be a legal fact based on function not on 
sex. Also, a wife will have the right to sue 
for, “. . . loss of consortium (affection, 
companionship, and help with home and 
children) if her spouse is bodily injured 
in an accident. Husbands have had this 
right for centuries as wives were always 
recognized as valuable. Furthermore, both 
a wife’s monetary and non-monetary
contributions to the household must be 
recognized when property is divided at 
divorce. In the past all household property 
was presumed to belong to the husband, 
unless his wife could prove otherwise.
Not only will the ERA eliminate unfair 
laws, but the passing of the ERA will 
provide women with the motivation for 
higher education. As stated in a pamphlet 
by the League of Women Voters of the 
United States, “Ours is still an educational 
system that casts women into supporting 
roles.” Acceptance of the ERA would 
cause women to aim for more than “tradi­
tional female” low-paying jobs. Because of 
a Commonwealth court decision under the 
ERA, girls can try out and practice with 
boys’ teams in Pennsylvania schools. This 
type of unbiased thinking introduced into 
the educational system by the ERA can 
motivate females to pursue their interests, 
rather than stereotyped female activities.
If passed, the ERA would not only 
increase the growing trend of higher educa­
tion for women, but it would also provide 
women with equal employment opportu­
nities. Unbelievably, as reported in the 
pamphlet by the League of Women Voters 
of the United States, ‘There are places in 
the United States today where women still 
are not recognized as mature, responsible 
adults. Where women can’t serve on juries, 
start a business, get a mortage or control 
their own property on the same basis as 
men.”
The influence of the ERA has caused 
many women to enter traditionally male 
professions. A pamphlet issued by the 
Director of the Pennsylvania Commission 
for women states, “Many careers and 
occupations have opened to women under 
the state ERA. Not only has the ERA 
brought about a process of ‘consciousness 
raising’ on the part of the employers and 
the public, but four separate state 
Attorney Generals’ opinions have rein­
forced the concept that women annot be 
restricted from any occupations they are 
qualified for. Now under the pressures 
of equal rights and equal opportunity 
legislation, there are women apprentices 
as auto and aircraft mechanics, draftsmen, 
plumbers, compositers . . . and many 
more.” The ERA would ultimately pro­
vide women with exactly the same career 
choices and possibilities as men.
Men will also benefit from the ERA. 
The ERA will cause alimony to be awarded
on the ability to pay. Pennsylvania has a 
provision for temporary alimony that was 
previously limited to women, but is now 
available to the economically dependant 
spouse. Furthermore, in the case of child 
custody, the presumption about which 
parent is the proper guardian would be 
dropped in favor of a requirement that the 
child’s welfare come first. Another issue 
men can benefit from under the ERA is 
retirement benefits. Currently men with 
working wives are excluded from 
retirement benefits that are received as a 
matter of course by women whose 
husbands work.
The above examples illustrate the im­
portant and necessary benefits to be gained 
by the passing of the ERA. Yet, there is 
the belief by both the opposition and by 
uninformed supporters of the ERA, that 
the amendment really is not necessary. 
The argument goes that women have 
gained a lot of rights in the past few years 
and that, like all citizens, women’s equality
“There are places in the U.S. today where women still are not recognized as mature, responsible adults.”
under the law has been guaranteed since 
1868 by the Fourteenth Amendment. Yet, 
the Fourteenth Amendment hasn’t pro­
tected the rights of women, nor was it 
intended to do so. On the contrary, the 
Fourteenth Amendment specifically 
excluded women by using the word male 
for the First time in the Constitution. The 
Fourteenth Amendment wasn’t used to 
strike down discrimination because of sex 
until 1971, more than 100 years after its 
passage. Since then it has been an on-again, 
off-again sort of support for women’s 
rights, sometimes invoked and sometimes 
not. If women are to gain true equality 
under the law, the ratification of the 
Equal Rights Ammendment is mandatory.
Jon Hayden breaks a leg as Malcolm in "MacBeth
//
by Anne Lux
A step into the Allegheny Theater on 
the North Side will transport you from 
everyday Pittsburgh existence into the 
world of Eleventh Century Scotland; 
a majestic world of soldiers, murders, 
witches and struggle for right. Part of that 
world is senior CMU drama student Jon 
Hayden, who plays the role of Malcolm in 
the Pittsburgh Public Theater’s production 
of Shakespeare’s Macbeth.
Presently on leave from the Drama 
Department, which has granted him an 
internship to accept this role, Jon went out 
oh his own to audition for Macbeth. 
It was an excellent opportunity to use 
what I’ve been taught here,” he said.
“In *senior year there is a big emphasis 
placed on developing audition pieces, in 
reparation for going out into professional
theater.”
Jon first auditioned for Macbeth in 
anuary for Literary Manager/Casting 
'rector Richard Pagano. He was called 
two weeks later to read the parts of 
bloody soldier,” Donalbain, and a 
messenger for director Ben Shaktman.
They called him back again in a few weeks 
to read the part of Malcolm; but still un­
certain, they went to New York to cast 
most of the play. But they called him back 
for a final audition, and the part of 
Malcolm was his.
Jon is very pleased with his role in 
Macbeth. The character of Malcolm pro­
gresses from the newly crowned Prince of 
Cumberland, through an exile in England, 
to the new king of Scotland. Jon plays the 
role with an upright idealism that contrasts 
perfectly with the wickedness of Macbeth.
He is enthusiastic about working with 
the cast of Macbeth. ‘They’re profes­
sionals, he said. ‘They work hard, and 
their work always shows. It’s been a good 
experience for me to work with people 
who have not been CMU-trained. Michael 
Cook, Rick Parks (two other CMU drama 
students in the production) and I have 
really benefited from working with them.” 
He added, “the technical people at PPT 
are great too.”
This is the first time Jon has ever 
worked in a “theater-in-the-round,” such as 
the one in the Allegheny Theater. ‘There
continued on pag* 8

---------------------------------------------------

V ¡/
j¡: -t ¿(te«. V ?/¦•
*?¦ \ 'T-w' \¿í¡r \
>j •'¦/,-t;...’j/ P't-i'íMy '---/**/ ¿ \- -v -* - ?K,y.-~U4jf4>-<~4*'--’< r% , "' * t '"•/+ / ' 'S/'#*-?.*-* '1 1 — ¦ ¦ . * ‘ 11 ¦ 11 “- - '* -, ---- -
•> ^ 
V *
;s
Q
Jon Hayden hits the stage
continued from page 7
are people watching from all angles; every­
thing is more noticeable. It also lends 
itself to more natural performances. You 
don’t always have to be facing a certain 
direction, so you can move more 
naturally.”
When asked how he felt about doing 
such classical theater as Shakespeare, 
as opposed to more modern plays, Jon 
replied,* “I feel very comfortable with 
Macbeth and find it easy to relate to 
Shakespeare. He wrote about people and 
very human things like love, greed, ambi­
tion. Those things don’t change over time. 
The cast really wants to make this play 
what Shakespeare meant it to be, despite 
the editing the script has gone through for 
this production.”
His work with the PPT is not the first 
professional theater Jon has done. In high 
school in Georgia, Jon was again granted 
an internship to play Willie Webb in 
Thorton Wilder’s Our Town at Atlanta’s 
Alliance Theater, which boasts an 800 seat 
house. He was also seen at the Alliance as 
James Thurber’s son Herman in 
Jabberwock.
Jon feels that these internships have 
been very beneficial to him. “A lot of 
times actors come out of school with no 
idea of what professional theater is like. 
They go to New York, or wherever, and
U.S. GOVERNMENT 
OPPORTUNITY OPENINGS FOR
• Scientific • Technical • Medical• General Management Graduates
Uniformed Military Divisions of the Department of the Navy 
have positions open for scientific, technical, medical and 
general management graduates. Positions available include:
SCIENTIFIC/TECHNICAL
Aviation (Pilot Trainees 
and System Maintenance) 
Computer Technology 
Engineering (Civil/Marine/ 
Mechanical/Electrical) 
Nuclear Power 
Ocean Systems
MEDICAL/GENERAL
Business Administration
Communications
Legal
Medical (RN/MT/MD/DDS) 
Human Resources 
Supply
QUALIFICATIONS: Minimum BS/BE degree (or college 
seniors). Federal regulations require that applicants be no 
more than 27 years old (adjustable up to 3 years for Veterans) 
to ensure fult opportunity for career advancement. Relocation 
overseas or domestically required Applicants must pass a 
rigorous mental and physical examination and qualify for a 
security clearance.
BENEFITS: Management Trainees can expect an excellent 
benefits package which includes 30 days annual vacation, 
generous medical/dental/life insurance coverages and other 
tax-free incentives. Dependents’ benefits are also available A 
planned promotion program is included with a commission in 
the Naval Reserve
PROCEDURE: Register with Career Services/Placement Of­
fice or call (800) 242-3736 for interview, or write a letter stating 
qualifications or send resume to DEPT of the NAVY. Code 10. 
1000 Liberty Ave . Pittsburgh, PA 15222
Computer offers easy use
discover that it is not at all like they’d 
imagined, and can become disillusioned.”
Jon was accepted at Boston University, 
Northwestern and Southern Methodist, but 
decided to come to CMU because “the 
professionals I spoke with all said that 
CMU was the best.” He turned down a 
small role in the movie “Smokey and the 
Bandit” to begin his freshman year here. 
He feels that he made the right choice. 
In his four years at CMU, Jon has been in 
such plays as The Winter’s Tale, Journey's 
End, Lunchtime, and, most recently, 
as Young Hack in Waiting for Lefty. 
He has also been photographer for the 
yearbook for four years and produces 
“Airplay” Radio Drama on WRCT.
Jon will be graduating in two weeks. 
Future plans are indefinite, but he has 
several options. After Macbeth closes on 
May 18, he may go to New Jersey for the 
Shakespeare festival there, or home to 
Atlanta to do some commercial work. 
New York is also a possiblity for Jon, since 
he made several valuable contacts while 
attending a conference of the League of 
Professional Training Schools, of which 
CMU is a member. All 29 senior actors 
attended the conference, where they per­
formed two and three person scenes before 
an audience consisting of at least 200 
casting directors and agents.
Pittsburgh, Pa.—A Carnegie-Mellon Uni­
versity graduate student of industrial ad- 
ministraton has developed a new computer 
program designed to allow business people, 
who have good skills in other areas, to use 
computers easily.
Charles Edward Kelly calls his program 
The Computer’s Apprentice (CA) and 
says it is to be used by managers, account­
ants and consultants, without the aid of a 
programmer. Kelly describes his system as 
“a self-configuring autocoder which em­
bodies an easy to use command structure 
acting as an information systems gener­
ator.” The systems that are generated 
are process data bases which are useful for 
information gathering and model building.
With the new program, he says, the 
design of a business information system 
becomes easier and can be done much 
more quickly than with present systems. 
“Computers require many technical speci­
fications before business people can start 
using them,” Kelly explains, “specifica­
tions regarding file structure, code gener­
ation and hardware configurations. The 
Controller’s Apprentice lets you forget 
about that and concentrate on business 
functions. It allows a greater deal of flexi­
bility in designing information systems.”
“For instance, an accountant, with
little or no knowledge of computers, can 
use the interactive environment within 
the CA to design a package for accounts 
receivable in several hours, rather than 
several days or weeks using present soft­
ware tools. The theory behind the pro­
gram, is not new, but the application of it
is, and the ease with which it is used saves 
time and reduces costs.”
The accountant would view the com­
puter as he would view a piece of paper. 
He would create a ledger, which is a data 
structure the CA understands, and each 
would contain information pertinent to 
each of his customers. After creating the 
ledger, which contains a description of the 
rules to be applied to the ledger, the 
accountant can use the command gener­
ator to describe the interaction of this 
ledger with clerks who will use the system. 
The clerks, in this sense, can be people at 
computer terminals, cash registers, optical 
scanning devices or other mechanical 
peripherals.
Kelly’s program can be run on hard­
ware provided by many major computer 
manufacturers including, DEC 10’s, 20’s, 
and ll’s, IBM, and the Hewlett-Packard 
3,000. Within a year, he says, the system 
will run on all major computers.
CMU admissions are stringent
by K. Krummert
Have you ever wondered what criteria 
you had to meet to be admitted as a stu­
dent to this esteemed institution of learn­
ing? Was it fate? Did someone flip a coin? 
The answer to both questions is no. Actu­
ally, a great deal of information about each 
applicant is compiled to determine who 
will be offered entrance to the University. 
Of approximately 4500 applications that 
were received last year, 1800 acceptances 
were sent out and of those, about 1020 
actually enrolled. The ultimate decision 
on who will receive an acceptance notice 
rests on a number of factors.
Many high school students develop a 
great deal of anxiety before SAT’s and 
Achievement Tests, feeling as if their lives 
depend upon the results. The importance 
of the test results depends upon the school, 
and at CMU, they are quite important. 
Score requirements vary from college to 
college. Fine Arts places less emphasis on 
the scores and more on auditions and 
portfolios. Architecture students, beside 
the SAT’s, are also expected to do well on 
the ASAT (Architecture Scholastic Apti­
tude Test). Different Achievement Tests
are required for different colleges and 
when considered along with high school 
grades, can hold as much weight as the 
SAT scores. High school grades are impor­
tant, however, if a student has high SAT 
scores, extracurricular activities, and only 
mediocre grades, he will be taken into 
consideration. Class rank too is regarded 
highly; engineering and science candidates 
come from the top one fifth of their class 
and all others from the top one half.
Activities are valuable because they 
indicate where the student’s interests and 
talents lie, interests and talents beyond 
academics that is. The recommendation 
offers a perspective on the student’s 
character from someone who knows him 
as an individual and is aware of his poten­
tial. The required essay reveals yet more 
about the student -what his goals are and 
how he perceives himself; it is especially 
helpful when an interview is not possible. 
Interviews, though not required, are extre­
mely beneficial to both the student and 
the Admissions officer. It offers the stu­
dent the opportunity to get first hand an­
swers to his questions and enables the bf- 
ficer to get to know the student.
SUMMER INTERNS WANTED
One of the top Wall Street Investment Banking Firms is undertaking a major review of all 
operations with the goal of:
1. Indicating revenue ex pans ion and/or cost reduction opportunities that can be ac­complished in the near future.
2. Developing detailed requirements for an integrated securities trading and pro­cessing system designed for expense 
reduction, revenue expansion and risk control.
Ideal candidates will have outstanding aca­demic credentials in Industrial Engineering, Finance, or Management Information Systems, will have completed one year of graduate study, and have two to three years of business 
experience.
Compensation is extremely high, but so are the 
hours.
If you have an interest, please forward your resume, along with a cover letter indicating why you should be selected for this project to:
MRS. JEANETTE WIRFEL Doremus and Co.
120 Broadway New York, N.Y. 10005

---------------------------------------------------

PROSPECTUS0
CARNEC'ÌIE-NIM'1-ON I NI VF, R.S il'Y •
»V*IUn*M
• APRIL 2S-M.-W 9 .
(Si
O IVA I'M BLVD Ä MORKAVOOl) \VFMON—SAT 9-5
*
NKKRII I
Pittsburgh, PA-“Prospectus 80,” an 
exhibit of degree projects by Camegie- 
Mellon University Design Department 
seniors opened last’ night at the Design 
Center, 5001 Baum Blvd., Oakland.
Some of the student’s creations empha­
size Pittsburgh. Debra Fram has developed 
three-by-eight foot banners for such diverse 
neighborhoods as Polish Hill and Mount
Washington. She compares the colorful 
banners to flags used in the Swiss cantons 
and considers them “another way to pull 
a community together.” Her Downtown 
Pittsburgh banner sports shades of black 
and gold.
Wendy M. E. Ailing has made “A 
Shopper’s Guide to Shadyside.” Susan 
Fudman has mapped out Schenley Park
Ahh Summer
What are YOU doing this summer?? After a long and hard school year here at CMU, 
what would you like to be doing? It seems that these answers are not often the same: 
the stock answers for what are you doing this summer are 1) staying in Pittsburgh to 
work and/or take classes; 2) going home (ugh!) to work and/or take classes; 3) going to 
a neutral third location to work and/or take classes; and 4) graduating! (this option is 
available to the lucky few only).
However, there are some people who have defied all the odds and will actually be 
doing something creative and/or extraordinary over the summer. A few replies that broke 
the monotonous norm were: vacationing in Venezuela; working on a cruise ship; work­
ing in a doll auction in Montana; spending a sunny summer in Rome; teaching in a state 
program for the arts; hosting a radio talk-show; hiking in the Swiss Alps; working on an 
uncle’s cattle farm (!) “out west somewhere”; and working on a film crew in L.A.
Unfortunately, not all of us are so fortunate... the majority will be doing 1), 2), or
3), and consoling each other with ‘There’s always next summer!”
The Doherty What?
There has been considerable speculation of late among the residents of Doherty Grad 
House as to the intent of University officials concerning the excavation recently com­
pleted near the House. A rumor has been circulated to the effect that the University, 
in an attempt to make the land more economically productive, will use the tract as a 
graveyard. The land had previously been available to students, at no charge, as a recre­
ation area. A committee of distraught students attempted to contact top University offi- 
cials about the matter, but they could not be reached for comment.__________________
DON'T FORGET!
College is a constant mix of the good and the bad. Many rank their college years 
as the best of their lives. There's no need to leave it all behind — take some of it 
with you in a subscription to the TARTAN. Only $10 brings you a semester of 
news, features, entertainment, sports and more. Send checks payable to the 
TARTAN to Box 17, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh, PA 15213. You'll be glad you 
did, every week.
JUNIORS
Qualified science, mathematics or engineering 
students can earn over $700 each month of 
your senior year with little or no distractions 
from your studies. Program established to plan 
for prospective gains in a highly technical, 
executive management field. For early 
screening and eligibility determination, send 
resume or letter stating background and 
college transcripts to Mr. James Snyder, 
Program Manager, Suite 711, 1000 Liberty 
Ave., Pittsburgh, PA. 15222. Formal interviews 
for these limited positions will be forthcoming.
dividing the whole into three categories: 
buidlings, sculptures and athletic facilities. 
Susan Wyble has designed a Three Rivers 
Arts Festival map.
Other graphic and industrial design pro­
jects show Greek recipes from ouzo to feta, 
the processing of natural wool, the develop­
ment of the saw, a tent for three seasons, 
a booklet designed to better relations
between Israel and Egypt.
Noted designer Ray Eames spoke at 
the opening ceremonies for “Prospectus 
80.” She critiqued the work of Carnegie- 
Mellon University Deisgn Department 
students the following day.
Robert O. Swinehart of the Design 
Department is senior show advisor. The 
exhibit is free and open to the public.
’80 
Rock-y MTN
Great Moments in the history of hair
ONE MILLION B.C. . .Blech, c 
Stone Age plumber, discovers c 
clump of matted fibers clogging a 
drain on a routine aqueduct re­
pair job. He calls the substance 
hair
"But we always thought this 
stuff was feathers", insists Kneg, 
his helper.
"Dummy", counters Blech. "If 
this was feathers, we'd be able to
fly like those pteradactyls".
With the discovery of hair, pluck­
ing salons disappear. Philoso­
phers have something to split in 
their search for Truth.
Now you can stop searching for 
the truth about your hair. Get a 
haircut you can fly with. No 
appointments required. For gals 
and guys.
mm£H?iCHIÏi9nSI
HAIRCUTS
(Wash-Cut-Blow)
1100
Mon. Tues. Wed. -10-7 
Thurs. Fri. 10-9 
Sat. 9-6
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
COLORING
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office 
687-3500
UNISEX HAIR SALON
PERMANENTS
25°°
NO
APPOINTMENTS

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Page 12 - TARTAN - April 29,1980
continued from page 1
November
Dean Toby Davis of SUPA resigned, 
and Arnold Weber, CMU provost, took off 
for the University of Colorado to become 
University President there.
Only 728 students, or about 14% of the 
student population, turned out for Student 
Senate elections.
The football team became the only un­
beaten team in CMU history by winning 
the President’s Athletic Conference crown. 
They went on to beat Minnesota-Morris in 
double overtime, 31-25, to advance to the 
semi-finals for the NCAA Division III title. 
Then the following week the Tartans lost 
their chance to be called the best small col­
lege football team in America when Ithica 
scored twice in the final 90 seconds of the 
semi-final game. Ithica went on to win the 
title in the Stagg Bowl.
The Kilte Band sponsored a night at the 
circus in order to raise money for new uni­
forms. AB celebrated its 10th birthday 
with a series of events. Sea Level brought 
its jazz-rock music to the Ballroom and 
drew good reviews. Roller Skating was the 
Dossier cover story for November. CMU 
students donated 246 pints of blood to the 
Central Blood Bank of Pittsburgh.
TARTAN
Year in Review...
* ¦
December
An attempted rape in the Doherty Hall 
basement was the leading TARTAN story 
for two weeks in a row. During the week of 
November 11th, a banner headline, in a 
quasi-National Enquirer style, stated: “The 
next person might not get out alive,’ vic­
tim warns”.
A campus-wide referendum was taken 
to decide what size increase to the Activi­
ties Fee Student Senate should recommend 
to the trustees. The TARTAN, along with 
most other student organizations (includ­
ing AB, which wrote a View on the sub­
ject) supported a $20 increase. After 
voting results indicated that a vast majority 
favored an increase of some sort ($5, $10 
or $20), Senate decided to recommend a 
$10 increase to the trustees. Later, how­
ever, Senate decided to up their recommen­
dation to $20 because the $20 increase re­
ceived the most votes in the referendum 
and was sorely needed.
In mid-December, the Spring Carnival 
theme, “New York City,” was announced.
Also in December, Lance Taylor, a Phi 
Kappa Theta fraternity brother, died in an 
early morning auto accident.
In the final issue before finals, the TAR­
TAN offered free classifieds, and hundreds 
of CMU students took advantage of the op­
portunity. One of the most noteworthy 
free classifieds was: “Sev’s in Poland — 
That’s a Load off my mind!”
January
We returned from Winter Break to learn 
that Food Service was in a crisis situation. 
Due to substantial losses, The Bakery Deli 
and Dinners Unlimited had to be closed 
down. Led in part by student leaders and
continued harping on the editorial page 
of the TARTAN, Food Service responded 
to student complaints, and reopened the 
Deli on January 23.
Offtcub fail lo explain food Service deficit
TARTAN
'Crists’ situation cause* f ood Service change
While the Steelers were winning the 
Super Bowl, students were winning in 
other areas on campus. Margaret Morrison 
Apartment dwellers, who went without 
desks or bookshelves for several weeks in 
early September, were reimbursed $20 by 
the Housing Office for their troubles. 
AIESEC-CMU won a number of awards at 
their national convention. And the CMU 
basketball team put together a string of 
victories to be a leader in the PAC.
The Graduate Student Organization re- 
cieved recognition by Student Senate. 
Dwight Sangrey was named the new head 
of the Civil Engineering Department and 
Dr. Arthur Westerberg took over as head of 
Chemical Engineering.
The Activities fee hike of $20 per year 
(for a total of $50 per full-time student) 
was approved by the trustees.
Several hundred seniors ate chicken, 
drank a tasty punch and talked about old 
times at the Senior Banquet. And hundreds 
of other students on campus, hawks and 
doves alike, talked about new times — a 
possible draft — after Carter announced his 
decision to implement draft registration.
February
The draft blossomed into an issue every­
one was talking about on campus. C.A.R.D. 
(The Committee Against Registration and 
Draft) asked Senate to sponsor a motion 
against the draft. Senate refused. A draft 
forum was held on campus. Discussion 
meetings were packed. And the TARTAN 
gave extensive coverage to all sides of the 
issues.
February was a big month politically. 
Scott Sibley, Student Government Presi­
dent was impeached after 500 signatures 
were collected asking that he be brought to 
trial. His offenses, at best, were hazy. It 
seemed as if all the trouble began when 
some student leaders decided Sibley didn’t 
deserve an invitation to meet with Presi­
dent Carter in Washington because he was 
inactive as CMU’s student president. Sibley 
went to the briefing with Carter, anyway, 
and later resigned before being brought to 
trial.
New housing rates were proposed with 
an average increase of $155 (12.5%).
In probably the most mysterious news 
story of the year, John Oakley, a 31-year- 
old research associate in CMU’s computer 
aided architectural design program, disap­
peared. He had acted strangely for a num­
ber of days and took off in the family car 
on the morning of February 2. The car was 
found later that day with keys still in the 
ignition. Oakley remained missing until 
several weeks ago, when his body was 
found in the river near the Fort Pitt Bridge.
March
Due in part to a TARTAN crusade to
get voters to the polls, the largest turnout 
(37.1%) in CMU history resulted in Nina 
Houska being elected as Student Body 
President. Due to irregularities in the vot­
ing process, however, the election was de­
clared void and was run again in late April. 
So after a long, sometimes bitter, campaign, 
John Alexander, Stuart Schlisserman and 
Ms. Houska went at it again. In April, it 
was Alexander who proved victorious.
Also in March, SAE, The Tri Delts and 
Phi Kaps won Greek Sing. A piece of com­
puter equipment valued at $30,000 was 
found in a dumpster at Science Hall. There 
were problems with the fire doors in More- 
wood. And Senate requested that the 
TARTAN not endorse any candidate for 
Student Government President, a request 
that the TARTAN editorial board severely 
criticized.
In March, the TARTAN editorial board 
changed hands. The reign of Jean Pelligrini 
ended and Sue Borg took over as Editor-in- 
Chief. Smita Pai was named Managing Edi­
tor, Doug Kirsop became Associate Editor 
and Jim Balsom was elected News Editor.
Rehearsals began in earnest for the 
Scotch and Soda production of KIJE!, 
freerolls became the focus of our predawn 
attention, and arrangements were made for 
a Sports Night in honor of Jimmy Starr, a 
CMU football standout who died in a car 
accident last summer. Proceeds from the 
evening would benefit a scholarship fund in 
Starr’s honor. Also in March, plans for 
Spring Carnival were divulged in the TAR­
TAN feature section under the headline. 
“The First Bite.” Chairman Dave Mongeau 
and his staff were referring, naturally, to 
The Big Apple.
Food Service refused to release an evalu­
ation made about them to the TARTAN, 
but later allowed the newspaper to print a 
summary of the report.
Lyn Epstein, the new DOSSIER editor, 
published her first issue in March, and the 
winners In the TARTAN photo contest 
(Jenny Ladd, Ryca Jackson and Carl 
Freedman) were announced.
CSO »ants mm Senate
April
April began with a series of exciting 
news developments. Mrs. Cyert, the Presi­
dent’s wife, made a rare public appearance 
and the TARTAN was lucky enough to get 
a photo of her “coming out.” A View 
From The Top dealt with the role of the 
administration’s mistress. (The role, it was 
learned, is “pleasure!”). And an advertise­
ment which received a great response was 
the Chatham College Ad revealing that the 
school is “now accepting transvestite ap­
plications.” The ad went on to state: “In 
an effort to increase enrollment, you no 
longer have to be a woman to study at 
Chatham College — You just have to 
look like one!” All of the above TARTAN 
stories were, naturally, part of the annual 
April Fools edition — The NATRAT.
Also in April, Senate decided to run
its elections, a tuition hike was announced 
for the 1980-81 school year ($700) and 
space was sought for the Robotics Insti­
tute in Warner Hall.
Still in the planning stage, it seems 
possible that because of the Robotics 
space-shifting, Dean Swank will be moved 
from Warner Hall to behind the Skibo In­
formation Desk, and Director of Student 
Activities, Anne Witchner and Mrs. 
Rudman would be moved upstairs into the 
AB offices. More on that, no doubt, in the 
months to come.
George Bush came to campus shortly 
before the Pennsylvania Primary and spoke 
to a packed Wherrett Room crowd (with 
an overflow audience in the Highlander 
Room). The TARTAN hosted the Pennsyl­
vania Collegiate Press Association Conven­
tion and welcomed a number of speakers, 
including Bush and Ted Kennedy’s daugh­
ter, Kara.
Also in April, Floyd B. Humphrey took 
over as head of the Electrical Engineering 
Department. And the Scotch and Soda 
Board put in long hours to bring their 
Spring musical, KUE!, to the stage, and re­
ceived mixed reviews in the TARTAN. 
Scotch and Soda later took issue with the 
TARTAN’s coverage.
And on April 4, GSIA prof. John Fitts 
died while canoeing in the Casselman River.
Pikd sets nev.
TARTAN
Beautiful weather and a well-organized 
Spring Carnival Committee made this 
year’s Carnival one of the best in recent 
memory. The highlight of the weekend 
came on Friday • morning when Pi Kappa 
Alpha shaved several seconds off the buggy 
course record, turning in an astounding 
2:15.4. In other Carnival news, SAE won 
the fraternity competition, Beta won the 
buggy design, Lamda Sigma won the inde­
pendent booth design competition and 
Delta Gamma took the honors in the 
sororities field. George Gee and his orches­
tra received several standing ovations and 
won the Gong Show with their Glenn 
Miller renditions.
And so, the year is over. All 700-plus 
pages have been filled. Some campus is­
sues have been over-played, some have 
been over-killed, a few, we’re sorry to say 
have been ignored, but some have been - 
in Goldilock’s terms — “Just right.” And 
overall, we’re proud of how we served you 
this year.
The TARTAN has tried hard to cover 
the CMU campus with all the determina­
tion, courage and smarts we could muster. 
If you’d like to lend a hand, come on down 
to the TARTAN office next fall and we’ll 
sign you up.
We’ve got our allocation of newsprint 
for next year already. There are hundreds 
of pages just waiting to be filled. It’s excit­
ing just trying to think of what news - 
good, bad and unbelievable — well have to 
deal with. Until then, thanks for reading 
the TARTAN this year. The best of luck 
to those graduating, best wishes to anyone 
who has finals, and a very pleasant summer 
to everyone in the CMU community.

---------------------------------------------------

Waters concert reviewed
by Alan Spero 
Music Editor
Although Spring Carnival was a dizzy­
ing kaleidoscope of overlapping events, the 
combined effort of a colorful midway, 
warm weather, and a major fireworks 
display could not keep 1400 enthusiastic 
blues fans from seeing one of the found­
ing fathers of rock and roll, Muddy 
“Mississippi” Waters perform at the CMU 
gymnasium Friday night at 8 PM.
Opening for Muddy Waters was acous­
tic guitarist /violinist Mike Cross, whose 
nicely paced, one-man show not only 
proved his versatility as a singer /song­
writer /musician, but kept the audience 
clapping along and cheering for more. His 
material ranged from country-western and 
folk to acoustic blues and rock, but his 
laid-back style, wry humor, and musical 
virtuosity pulled it all together into a tight 
and entertaining act.
Muddy Waters had the audience stand­
ing in excited anticipation before he even 
came on stage. After the introduction, 
Muddy’s back-up band, consisting of two
guitarists, a bass player, a keyboardist, 
and drummer, jammed out on a couple 
of nicely constructed blues progressions. 
Even though the twelve bar pattern became 
repetitive after awhile, the energy and 
assurance they put into each note made 
every song sound fresh.
Then, after a three song warm-up, the 
“man” strode onto the stage, sat down on 
a stool center-front, and started to play the 
blues. Opening up with “Hoochie Coochie 
Man,” Muddy immediately asserted him­
self as the man most worthy of interpret­
ing the classic blues tunes which comprise 
his concerts, many of which are still being 
re-hashed and re-released by various artists 
today. His vocal style during songs like 
“Baby, Please Don’t Go” and “Nine 
Below Zero” was quintessential blues: 
His voice was charged with a genuine emo­
tion that had the audience hanging onto 
every word.
Muddy Waters’ incomparable influence 
on contemporary guitar playing was evi-
Forbes Street corner
by Alex Czajkowski
The final Forbes Street Gallery show 
was exhibited last week, featuring four 
artists whose media ranged from color 
Xerox to wood and metalworking, and 
whose styles ranged from abstract to sur­
realism. Lamark, Slack, Bachemin and 
Hershberger were each able to make a 
lasting impression with none of the four 
dominating over the others, an extremely 
rare event for CMU shows.
Chrisanne Lamark is a talented drawing 
major, and the show emphasized her figure 
studies in the exhibit. Of these, three were 
exceptionally well-done and nicely fi­
nished—a nude sitting titled “Barbara,” 
another nude reclining, and a standing 
nude model. She also had a very sultry 
self-portrait.
Lamark successfully pulled off some­
thing that many artists attempt 
but often fail—showing the evolution of 
a particular piece. Many working drawings 
were arranged next to “Counterpoint,” 
a drawing that incorporated the best 
features of each test sketch. Next to the 
final drawing was an oil-paint version of 
“Counterpoint.” At first glance, this set 
of two large identical pieces sauf color 
and the accompanying little ones seemed 
“boring” and “too much the same,” then, 
when one sees why they are the same, 
they are a lot of fun.
Roma Slack also had a figure study, in 
ink however, and a self-portrait too, but 
in watercolors. The main body of Slack’s 
work was her series of Buddha propor­
tioned drawings. Without being aware of 
what the piece is supposed to represent, 
a figure (human) could be gleaned, 
especially in her “Restlessness, My Enemy.”
These paintings are the geometric propor­
tions that the sitting Buddha was tradition­
ally to be drawn or sculpted from. With 
Slack’s touch and Western eyes, they go 
beyond being the Eastern Buddha or 
geometric abstractions . . . things are visible 
within these paintings to anyone that looks 
beyond the shellac over the paint. For me, 
this meant seeing a face very distinctly 
in a smaller untitled Buddha, for someone 
else, a bird, for others ....
Another interesting thing to look at 
was three abstracts in acrylic. Two of 
these, untitled and small, were typically 
abstract and expressionistic-free flowing 
color. The other, much larger and sur­
realistic, was called “Previous Passion in 
Red and Pink.” Looking from the smaller 
two to the big one, one could see remark­
able similarities in form and direction—
Muddy feelin' the blues.
artistic development at work!
Working with color Xerox, Sue 
Bachemin had an overbearing amount of 
multi-media graphics. Some of these were 
really striking; such as a skeleton and nude 
female with a baseball bat, or see-through 
ladies with bones, organs and perfume 
atomizers visible inside them.
In the backroom of the Gallery was 
“Operation Asteroid.” Here Bachemin 
becomes the protege of a malfunctioning 
television. Her series are reminiscent of 
watching re-runs of an old adventure series 
with commercials from the next channel 
bleeding over. Interesting, but strange. The 
impact of these pieces leaves one pondering 
their meaning.
Bachemin’s work reminds one of Louise 
Molnar’s exhibit a few weeks ago with the 
“Ilustrators at large” show. Both strive 
for graphic jmpact, and both achieve it 
well.
If anyone came close to dominating the 
show, it was Leslie Hershberger. Her photo­
graphy was excellent, with well-composed 
shots of fish on ice, people and unusual 
sights. Far above and beyond her photo­
graphic talent is her ability to bend and 
shape metal and wood to her will. “Ma, 
The Soup’s Too Bland . . . Again!”, a 
carved wooden soupbowl, soup, spoon, 
crackers, and the key to the piece, a sus­
pended salt shaker was humorous as well 
as Dada-like. “Don’t Cry Over It!”, a 
similar piece, cast from steel with a milk 
carton pouring into an overflowing glass 
was also great. Her jewelry left something 
to be desired, as it tended to be on the 
heavy, bulky side.
Best of all, and best in the show, was 
“ODANATA No. 6; Or Entomologists 
Delight,” a mounted, boxed, and labeled 
cast aluminum and bronze dragonfly. 
It was perfect. “Restrained Emotions,” 
a tied-up piece of bronze, was an excellent 
example of her skill, making the metal 
look soft enough to restrain and crease 
with string (in this case, brass). A bronze 
and walnut pitcher is the best combination 
of her wood and metal talent.
There was much more at this show than 
has been mentioned, and for four artists 
it was also one of the most crowded. The 
work was excellent overall, with very few 
low spots. There may have been other 
ways to close the Gallery for the semester, 
but this show essentially had something of 
almost everything in it. The metal works, 
Xeroxes, Buddhas, and figure studies 
made an unusual, enjoyable combination 
to end on.
dent during the entire show. His countless 
blues and rock licks have been imitated and 
by every major rock guitarist of the fifties 
and sixties and are still prevalent in a ma­
jority of today’s popular music. No one 
present could question that Muddy Waters 
could still wail on a guitar, especially after 
he cut loose on a blistering slide solo 
during the middle of the set.
“Kansas City” featured some fine 
singing by the piano player, wherein he and 
Muddy traded vocals and instrumental 
breaks back and forth. The show wound up 
with another Muddy Waters’ staple, “I’m aChamber of arias
Man.” By this time, Muddy had put down 
the guitar, picked up the mike and began 
really swinging along with his vocals. The 
crowd had been standing and screaming 
enthusiastically for the entire show, but 
once Muddy started to move around and 
rock out on the stage, the applause and 
cheering became deafening.
Muddy Waters came back for one en­
core, “I Got My Mojo Working” and the 
thunderous response proved the crowd 
heartily agreed. It was a great evening of 
the blues and a tremendous highlight of 
this year’s Spring Carnival.
by Timothy LeVan
The Carnegie-Mellon Chamber Players 
closed their 1979-80 season last week with 
a program dedicated to the music of 
Gabriel Faure.
Patricia Kern, mezzo-soprano; Brian 
Raegin, violin; Nelson Whitaker, piano; 
and Anne Martindale Williams, cello per­
formed.
Ms. Kern opened the program with five 
contrasting chansons. The intimacy of 
Faure was quite evident in all of Ms. Kern’s 
excellent singing. Her versatile voice por­
trayed the chansons with great nuance. 
From the softest to the fullest passage, 
her voice was always vibrant and pleasing. 
Her ability to “float” high notes was most 
pleasing, and harkened to Leontyne Price.
Elegy, Op. 24, for Cello and Piano 
followed. Ms. Williams played with utmost 
romanticism. Her playing was always 
totally inspired, controlled, and therefore, 
beautiful. The fairly short work was very 
beautiful in its melodic line, and expressive 
nature.
Ms. Kern ended the first half of the 
program with four additional chansons. 
Again, her voice sounded marvelous, with 
a totally relaxed, free style of singing.
Every tone was pure, unaffected and na­
tural. Her total vocal apparatus seemed 
always to be in perfect order to allow only 
the most natural singing. Ms. Kern’s 
diction was wonderful, and quite precise. 
Each word was carefully articulated and 
clearly sung.
The Sonata, Op. 13, for Violin and 
Piano closed the program. The Sonata, 
although musically interesting at times, is 
not one of the most well-known or enjoy­
able compositions ever written.
Mr. Raegin played with great technical 
ability, and a good sense of romantic 
interpretation. Mr. Raegin generally played 
very well. The third movement (Allegro 
vivo) contained a few slight errors, but was 
played well nevertheless. The movement 
ended rather predictably with a stacatto 
coda which sounded as if it should be from 
the pen of a lesser composer than Faure.
Mr. Whitaker accompanied the entire 
program with great skill. His solid pianistic 
technique and understanding of Faure 
gave each composition a fresh, vibrant life. 
The intimacy with which Mr. Kern and 
Mr. Whitaker performed the chansons was 
especially enjoyable.
Rock for the Summer
by Alan Spero
Danny Kresky Enterprises will be 
bringing the heavy metal machinery into 
Pittsburgh for the early summer months. 
Van Halen, who are touring in support of 
their latest release, Women And Children 
First, will bring their high-powere.! barrage 
of sound to the Stanley Theatre for a one 
evening performance on April 30th. Last 
year’s show was a quick sellout.
Then on May 10th, Journey will head­
line at the Civic Arena, also the promote 
their newest album, Departure. Then Tri­
umph returns to the Stanley Theatre on 
May 31st for one show. And finally, Tom 
Petty and the Heartbreakers, whose show 
scheduled for last November 21st was post­
poned due to Petty’s throat infection, will 
finally be returning to the Stanley Theatre 
on July 10th to make up for the cancelled 
concert.
DiCesare-Engler Productions will be pre­
senting CheapTrick at the Civic Arena on 
June 4th. The group’s current tour will 
concentrate on material from their latest 
album, The Dream Police, plus a healthy 
selection from their previous releases, and 
possibly a few new songs from their up­
coming album.
DiCesare-Engler will also be bringing 
two more top acts into the Civic Arena in 
the upcoming months. Rush will perform 
their Permanent Waves tour on May 14th, 
and Bob Seeger will be at the Civic for two 
shows on the 6th and 7th of July. May 
4th, the Stanley Theatre will host Graham 
Nash, who is touring in support of his new 
album, Earth and Sky.
Tickets for all of the above-mentioned 
shows are now on sale at their respective 
box offices, all National Record Marts, and 
Kaufman’s downtown.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14 - TARTAN - April 29, 1980
The Dark: A local band 'that takes chances'
by Paul Smith
The Dark is a band that takes chances. 
They experiment, they play with different 
musical styles, they fuse them, they impro­
vise. And that is what makes them interest­
ing, even though their experiments don’t 
succeed as often as one might wish. They 
played at the Decade last Wednesday to a 
small but appreciative audience.
The Dark’s instrumentation is guitar, 
bass, drums and synthesizer. The bass is 
usually the dominant instrument, and 
bassist David Doremus is outstanding; 
quick and jumpy, but still a solid bottom 
for the sound. Guitarist Tom Moran is 
usually good, though the heavy distor­
tion that makes his more high-energy com­
positions so effective turns overbearing on 
the group’s lighter funk and reggae material
The least effective element is the syn­
thesizer. It seems to be played with, rather 
than played. The instrument is homemade, 
and appears as a cluster of wires, circuts, 
transistors and knobs, conspicuously lacking 
a keyboard. It doesn’t lend itself to musical 
precision, and while it fits into the more 
free-form surrealistic pieces, it is rather
by Timothy LeVan
Music Director Andre Previn has re­
vealed program plans for the upcoming 
1980-81 season-The Pittsburgh Symphony 
Orchestra’s Tenth Anniversary Season in 
Heinz Hall. As part of the anniversary 
celebration, the orchestra will perform 
with an outstanding list of world-famous 
guest conductors and soloists.
Program highlights for the Tenth 
Anniversary Season include premieres, 
commemorations and continued presenta­
tions of great works of the masters.
The season will open with a World 
Premiere composition by Andre Previn 
(dedicated to the Tenth Anniversary 
Season of the Orchestra in Heinz Hall.)
The orchestra will commemorate the 
100th anniversary of the birth of Bela 
Bartók in two ways: Itzhak Perlman will 
perform the Violin Concerto No. 2 and 
Vladimir Ashkenazy will perform all 
three of Bartok’s Piano Concerti.
The Romeo and Juliet Suite will be 
heard in three forms by three composers: 
Berlioz, Prokofiev and Tchaikovsky.
Mr. Previn, orchestra, choir and soloists 
will close the season with performances of 
Beethoven’s Ninth Symphony (The 
“Choral”).
Over Thanksgiving weekend, the orches­
tra will perform an All-American music 
program celebrating the birthdays of three 
American composers: William Schuman 
(70th), Aaron Copland (80th) and Samuel
obtrusive in the songs that are more tra­
ditionally organized. It might be easier to 
take if there was more diversity in the 
sounds it generates, but the same effects 
seem to be re-used a lot.
Of the sets I saw at the Decade, the 
most effective songs were at the extreme 
ends of the spectrum of musical styles they 
cover, the most pop-oriented and the most 
free-form. On the more traditional side, a 
very tight, jumpy funk song called “Radio” 
and a cover of ihe Spinners song “I’ll Be 
There” were particularly good. While the 
things I liked tended to be in that sort of 
twisted pop style, I was also impressed by a 
very strange piece they did; Doremus 
reading a long urban apocalypse poem 
against a background of slide guitar and 
synthesizer improvisations. It had, for a 
reason I can’t really determine, a lot 
more real emotion in it than the other raw, 
post-punk synthesizer based things they 
played.
Their lyrics were too often pointlessly 
hostile. Bitterness is effective when used 
tactfully, but when overdone it can be just 
plain bitchy, and the Dark come a little too
Barber (70th).
The orchestra will perform the World 
Premiere of Ezra Landerman’s Concerto 
for String Quartet. This work was com­
missioned by the Pennsylvania Council for 
the Arts and Penn State University in 
cooperation with the Pittsburgh Symphony 
Orchestra.
Guest conductors will be Kiril Kondra- 
shin (debut), Eduardo Mata, Zdenek Macal, 
Leonard Slatkin, Yuri Temirkanov (debut), 
Andrew Davis and Charles Dutoit (debut).
Piano soloists will be Peter Serkin, 
Cristina Ortiz, Vladimir Ashkenazy, 
Malcolm Frager, Yefim Bronfman, Radu 
Lupu, Andre Watts, Andras Schiff and 
Alicia de Larrocha.
Also to be heard as soloists will be 
violinists, Leonid Kogan, Itzhak Perlman, 
Mayumi Fujikawa, Herbert Greenberg, and 
Silvia Marcovici; cellists, Nathanial Rosen, 
and Yo-Yo Ma; soprano Shirley Verrett 
and guitarist Angel Romero.
Two new subscription series have been 
added; a series of six Sunday matinee per­
formances, and a series of six Saturday 
evening performances.
Special attractions for the Tenth An­
niversary season will include the Los 
Angeles Philharmonic, Carlo Maria Giulini, 
conductor; Andre Previn and Vladimir 
Ashkenazy, pianists; P.D.Q. Bach; Maurice 
Andre, trumpet; Joan Sutherland, soprano; 
Luciano Pavarotti, tenor and Richard 
Bonynge, conductor.
close to that line.
Does that make them a “Punk” band? 
No, their repertoire is too diverse to drop 
them into that slot of any other category. 
They are not a “New Wave dance band,” 
though a lot of their stuff has that rythm 
so conducive to doing the pogo. They are 
not a “White boys doing black music” 
the group’s lighter funk and reggae material, 
influence. What they are is experimental.
And that can be a problem for them in 
some ways. First, experiment nearly always 
has some degree of failure. And second, 
most people would rather be predictably
by Scott Schaffer
Yes addicts have plenty to talk about 
again. Although Yes has not put out any­
thing in a year and a half, a member 
(Steve Howe) and a former member (Bill 
Bruford ) of that band have each released 
a new album. Yet there are more differences 
than similarities between The Steve Howe 
Album and Gradually Going Tornado, by 
Bruford.
Guitarist Steve Howe’s second solo disk 
has two strikes against it even before the 
stylus reaches the vinyl. The remarkably 
unimaginative title (remember The Yes 
Album), and the cover (how novel can an­
other Roger Dean cover be?) suggest that 
the album might be less than a reservoir 
of inspiration. For the most part this is 
true. At one time, many considered Howe 
to be at the apex of rock guitarists, includ­
ing readers of Guitar Player Magazine, who 
chose him as “best all-around guitarist.” 
His latest effort, while enjoyable and tech­
nically perfect, doesn’t quite live up to his 
reputation.
Howe experiments with diverse styles, 
including ragtime, country, and even neo­
classical, with “Double Rondo” and his 
arrangement of Vivaldi’s “Concerto in D,” 
which are recorded with an orchestra. The 
result is a disjunct hodgepodge. Howe 
seems to be trying to show us his broad 
range of genres rather than to put together 
his best material.
Despite this, the album has its share of 
merit. “All’s a Chord” has an interesting 
arrangement, and “Surface Tension” is 
another acoustic classic in the spirit of 
“Mood for a Day.” “Look Over Your 
Shoulder” features an excellent vocal by 
Clair Hammill. These tunes could have 
been the core of a fine album.
entertained than listen to something they 
might not understand. But I wouldn’t 
point to either of those as reasons for the 
band to stop the direction in which they 
are going, or for you to not go check them 
out. The latter is a problem of closed mind­
edness, something that innovators must 
always contend with.
Even if their music is going into more 
bad places than good right now, it’s not 
standing still, and that is very important, 
much more important than worrying about 
mistakes.
In contrast, the third record by Bruford 
(the name of Bill Bruford’s group) is uni­
fied and consistent. Just eight months on 
the heels of their immensely popular 
One of a Kind release, Gradually Going 
Tornado shows a band which is maturing 
and developing a unique style.
The album presents two notable sur­
prises. The first is the emergence of bassist 
Jeff Berlin as a vocalist. While their previous 
material was almost all strictly instrumental, 
four of the eight tracks on Tornado sport 
Berlin’s unexpectedly competent singing. 
The second surprise is the absence of guitar 
virtuoso Alan Holdsworth. His replace­
ment, “The Unknown John Clark,” is 
adequate, but most of the slack is picked 
up by Berlin and keyboardist Dave Stewart, 
both of whom once again turn in superb 
instrumental performances. With the 
addition of Bruford’s incomparable drum­
ming, Holdsworth is hardly missed.
It is tough to pick favorites on this 
album because there is not a bad song in 
the bunch, and it is likewise difficult to 
single out any solos because the band is 
excellent throughout. “Age of Informa­
tion” and “Plans for J.D.” are catchy 
numbers with lyrics and should (but 
probably won’t) get airplay. “Joe Frazier” 
and “Palewell Park” are nice instrumentals, 
as is “Land’s End,” a ten and a half minute 
drama. Bill Bruford and Stewart have 
established themselves as composers, and 
their compositions are the basis for a very 
distinctive sound.
Bruford looks.like a band to watch in 
the eighties. Progressive rock fans can only 
hope that this foursome remains at a 
creative peak while others such as Steve 
Howe regain theirs.
ALONE AND PREGNANT?
A caring, confidontial friend, 
LIFELINE. DOWNTOWN PITTSBURGH 
562-0543. Free Pregnancy Tasting. 
Evening Hours Available
i
Part-time
Research Assistant
need a campus representative to assist us in developing mailing lists of selected senior and graduate students Ingenuity, perseverance and reliability required. Mould prefer someone who can work for us in this capacity for several years to come. Mo rags to riches" meome, but certainly attractive if you need additional money to help meet rising expenses 
N you are Kerested in learning more about this opportunity, fill out the coupon below and mail it today
I am interested in learning more about being your
Cottage or Univ.
NMI AssociatesAttn: Nevil JohnsonP.O Box 19722» Dept COLAOSDallas, leus 75219
State_____Zip
___Dept, or Class
This is Twyla Tharp. Her dance company is coming from Broadway to Pittsburgh for one perfor­
mance, May 3 at Heniz Hall. For more information see 'Tharp and Company" on page 19.
1980 Symphony Season
Good Yes and bad Yes
THE BACH CHOIR OF PITTSBURGH
W. William Wagner, Music Director presents 
ELIJAH by Feiix Mendelssohn
Jerry Shannon, Baritone Myrna Paris, Contralto Miriam Kelly, Soprano 
John Klingensmith, Tenor Patricia Ellis, Organist 
Tuesday, May 6 8:00 p.m.
CHURCH OF THE ASCENSION Ellsworth at Neville, Shadyside 
Admission: General $4 Student $3 
For Information: 681-4302 or 562-8832

---------------------------------------------------

Undefeated trackmen eye second straight title
by Dario Donatelli
Carnegie-Mellon stunned Bethany and 
Allegheny this past Saturday by scores 
of 10342 and 115-25, respectively. These 
wins, along with the team's victory over 
Hiram on Wednesday, gives the Tartans a 
perfect 7-0 record at the end of the con­
ference schedule.
In all three victories, the Tartans were 
led by freshman Avi Orenstein. and junior 
tri-captain Joe Gold camp who took two 
victories in each meet. Orenstein took vic­
tories in the 220 yard dash and the 100 
yard dash while Goldcamp, who set a 
school and stadium record on Wednesday 
with a time of 56.4 in the 440 yard inter­
mediate hurdles, turned in a sizzling 56.1 
on Saturday to set a new mark. He also 
won the 120 yard high hurdles. Junior 
tri-captain Dario Donatelli also etched 
his name into the record books with 
4:22:5 performance in the mile.
As usual, a large part of the credit for
the Tartan victory on Saturday goes to the 
field men who captured four events. Tri­
captain George Canepa took the triple 
jump with a leap of 43 feet, 3'M inches 
and Vic F^rrott’s 20 foot, 8 inch effort in 
the broad jump gave him the victory in 
that event. Mike Lynch took the pole 
vault when he cleared the bar at a height 
of 12 feet even and Jim Steinke was the 
champion in the shot put with a heave of 
43 feet, 5Vz inches. Junior Tom Gancy, 
who joined the track team late last week, 
made his first collegiate meet a successful 
one as he jumped 6 feet, 4 inches to share 
the high jump title.
The Plaid well be heading for Hiram 
this weekend, trying to take their second 
straight conference championship. Leading 
the team with undefeated records on the 
season are Canepa (triple jump), ftrrot 
(long jump), Orenstein (100 yard dash), 
Goldcamp (high hurdles) and Donatelli 
(mile).
John Wooldridge takes the baton from Joe Giansante to start the second leg of the 440-yard relay 
in last Saturday's meet against Allegheny and Bethany. The team won the race with a time of 
44.4 seconds.
Junior co-captain Dario Donatelli strains for the tape at the end of the mile run. Donatelli's time 
of 4:22.5 was a school record.
120 Yard High Hurdles- 1, Goldcamp,
CMU, 15.5. 2,--------, Bethany, 15.6.
3,Gannis, CMU, 15.7.
440 Yard Dash- 1, Hallinen, CMU, 51.0.
2, Henderson, Bethany, 52.7. 3, Loomis, 
CMU, 53.1.
100 Yard Dash- 1, Orenstein, CMU, 10.2.
2,Giansante, CMU, 10.5. 2, Wooldridge, 
CMU, 10.5.
880 Yard Run- 1, Lentz, CMU, 2:00.4.
2, Klaiber, CMU, 2:00.9. 3, Florida, 
Bethany, 2:03.5.
440 Yard Intermediate Hurdles- 1, Gold­
camp, CMU, 56.1 (new school and track
record). 2,------—, Bethany, 58.1. 3,
Delo, CMU, 58.4.
220 Yark Dash-1, Orenstein, CMU, 22.2. 
' 2, Wooldridge, CMU, 23.0. 3, Hallinen, 
CMU, 23.5.
3 Mile Run- 1, Held, Allegheny, 14:36.0.
2, Donatelli, CMU, 14:40.9. 3,--------,
Bethany, 15:26.0.
Mile Relay- 1, CMU,3:30.3. 2, Bethany. 3, 
Allegheny.
440 Yard Relay- 1, CMU, 44.4. 2, Bethany, 
46.7. 3, Allegheny, 47.3.
Pole Vault- 1, Lunch, CMU, 12-0. 2, 
Kromer, CMU, 11-6. 2, Sigler, Bethany, 
11-6.
Shot Put- 1, Steinke, CMU, 43-5‘/i. 2, 
Grinnell, CMU, 43-3. 3, Lampson, 
Bethany, 42-1^.
High Jump- 1, Dedeonesio, Allegheny, 64.
1, Clancy, CMU, 64. 3, Carver,Bethany,
6-2.
Javelin- 1, Vallani, Bethany, 201-3. 2, 
Conrad, CMU, 177-0. 3, Leone, Bethany, 
148-10.
Discus- 1, Lampson, Bethany, 139-11.
2, Hall, CMU, 139-5. 3, Kikel, Alle­
gheny, 121-11.
Long Jump- 1, ftrrott,CMU, 20-8. 2, 
Burke, Bethany, 20-Vi 3, Jaworski, 
CMU, 19-11.
Triple Jump- 1, Chnepa, CMU, 43-3}l
2, Holmes, CMU, 42-8. 3, Carney, 
Bethany, 41-10.
Mile Run- 1, Donatelli, CMU, 4:22.5 (new
school and track record). 2,--------,
Allegheny, 4:25.9. 3, Mang, Bethany, 
/•:30.8.
Miller awarded scholarship at Starr night benefit
by Wes Seeley
Chip Miller, a junior in the Metallurgy 
and Material Science department, was 
announced as the first recipient of the 
Jimmy Starr Memorial Scholarship at the. 
City of Champions Sports Nite. The 5-11. 
>C)0 pound linebacker from Natrona.| 
Pennsylvania was given the award on the! 
basis of his being the junior whose Quality 1 
Point Average has improved the most ini 
tlie last two semesters. The presentation| 
was one of the many highlights at the| 
Sports Mite which brought a capacity 1 
crowd to the Carnegie-Mellon Gymnasium 1 
on April 20.
Bob Prince was the master of ceremo-| 
n*es lor the affair and he kept the proceed­
ings moving as he and Coach Chuck 
Clausing brought to the microphone a long I
ol local sports personalities of the past 1 
and present. And, when there weren’t 
sportsmen, there were entertainers to till | 
the gaps.
•he reason for the Sports Nite, ofj 
bourse, was to raise money for the fund 
and that it did. At the end of the evening. 
^-5,000 had been collected and counted!
with who knows how much still to come. 
The credit for this goes to the ballplayers 
who histled raffle tickets in the weeks 
before the event and the mothers who did 
it during it.
Dear Faculty, Staff and Students,
tt was so nice to see so many of you at 
{he Jimmy Starr Benefit, it was heart­
warming to see that so many of you cared 
for a student and classmate. Bob Prince 
told me that it was the largest audience 
that he had ever seen at an event of its
kind. ' ; ' - V' \ "> *J!'
I have never been so proud of our foot­
ball team. Jimmy Starr's memory will last 
forever because ol their efforts.
Carnegie-MeHon can be proud of stu­
dent athletes like Jimmy Starr and his 
friends.
Sincerely, 
Chuck Klausing
Coach Klausing, of course, was very 
pleased with the response. “A lot of people 
on this campus really care,” he said. He 
also said that he hopes the Sports Nite will
be a yearly event partly because it is a 
viable means of raising money for the fund 
but also because the campus community 
enjoyed it so much.
Chip Miller recieves the Jimmy Starr Memorial Scholai-ship at the City of Champions Sports Nite. 
The parents of Jimmy Starr are shown presenting the award.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16 - TARTAN - April 29,1980
Baseball club sweeps pair from Duquesne Dukes
by Tom Yogan
The CMU baseball club raised their 
record to 5-4 with a doubleheader victory 
over the Duquesne Dukes last Saturday at 
Mellon Park.
Freshman Ed Novak gave up eight hits 
and struck out eight as the Tartans won 
the first game 5-4. Centerfielder Max 
Homer slammed a double and scored two 
runs for CMU.
In the second game, pitcher Jamie 
Pattison went the distance to record his
second win, allowing six hits and striking 
out six in a 9-5 come from behind victory. 
Thirdbaseman Bobby Friedman blasted 
two doubles and scored two runs. Mark 
Rubai and Bernie Lawrence each contri­
buted two rbis.
In action last week, the Tartans belted 
CCAC-South 12-5, lost two games to Pitt, 
and defeated Penn State-New Kensington 
15-14 and 7-2. CMU hosts Beaver Commu­
nity College this afternoon at Mellon Park. 
Game time is set for 3 PM.
Tennis team nets title
by Chris Kopchak
The Carnegie-Mellon Men’s Tennis Team 
completed its regular season with a perfect
7-0 conference record marking the first time 
that the team has finished undefeated in the 
Presidents Athletic Conference. The Team’s 
nine win and three loss overall record makes 
this the team’s most productive season.
Last Saturday, the Tartans defeated 
arch-rival Allegheny, 5.4 to place first in 
the conference. It was the Gators First loss 
of the year.The match, played at Allegheny, 
was very close throughout. Victories by Jim 
Silvey, Brian Wolfe and Chris Kopchak pull­
ed the Tartans into a 3-3 tie after singles 
play leaving only three doubles matches to 
decide the match.
The number one doubles team of Greg 
Maskarinec and Jim Silvey won their match,
7-6,7-6, and when Mike Straub and Brian 
Wolfe took a three set victory from the
Gators number two doubles team, the Tar­
tan victory was assured.
Tennis Coach Mark Bush was very pleas­
ed with the team’s play, but was quick to 
point out that the conference champion­
ship is still to be decided. Although the Tar­
tans won all their section dueJ matches this 
season, individual and team championships 
will be decided at the conference tourna­
ment to be played this weekend at Bethany.
The team is optimistic about its chances 
at the tournament. Singles players Silvey, 
Wolfe and Kopchak posted undefeated con­
ference records and are favorites in the 
tournaments. The team of Wolfe and Straub 
completed the conference schedule unde­
feated in doubles.
The Tartan’s major cmpetition for the 
team title is expected to come from Alle­
gheny but the Tartans have to be consider­
ed the team to beat.
Steve Kaufman i A) defeat 
Jim Silvey (CMU) defeated Scott fcm, .*mmmmm
Brian Wolfe (CMU) defeated Dan K 
Chris Kopchak(CMU)defeated Ward Black,
•*-' A* " ?
Eddie Pritchard (A)defeated JohnS?
Kaufman-Kline. 7-6J-6.
Wolfe-Straub (CMU) defeated Black-Lim.
Kopchack-Henry Chung 1 
M&Lt JPritchard-F
•US*" , * '*/' -v ¿ . ¡ 5-WÊÊiWmm ' - I 11¦ : m ÏI
ENERGY.We can't afford to waste it.
!
NUCLEAR POWER TRAINEES
Prospective college graduates with degrees in 
mathematics, physics, engineering or a related 
field may be qualified to join us for training as 
nuclear engineers. Our rigorous training 
program, designed by the Nuclear Regulatory 
Commission, qualifies candidates to supervise 
the operation of one of our many reactor 
plants around the world. We offer outstanding 
personal and professional growth opportunity 
with commensurate compensation along with 
an attractive benefit package. Federal 
regulations require applicants possess U.S. 
citizenship and under 28 years of age. In­
terviews will be conducted soon in the Tri-State 
area. For consideration, send resume and 
college transcripts to Mr. Dave Leonard, 1000 
Liberty Avenue, Suite 711, Pittsburgh, PA 
15222.
SsI
¦
I
DuquesneABRHBI
Morgan, 2b3000
Mastroianni, rf2100
Reilly, ss3110
Fazioli, dh3032
Schwerer, If3020
Tautaglio, cf3100
Dellantonio, 3b3010
Coll, lb3000
Rippee,c3110
Hradsky, p0000
CMUABRHBI
Friedman, 3b2011
Ponchione, 2b3000
Schwab, dh3000
Yogan, If2000
Brown, rf3100
Lawrence, c1110
Homer, cf3211
Fry, lb3100
Rossi, ss3011
Novak, p0000
innrerhbbso
Novak, w 642838
Hradsky, 1 752434
2b-Homer, Fazioli. LOB-Duquesne 5,
DuquesneABRHBI
Tautaglio, cf4010Mastroiani, rf4020Reilly, ss3000Schwerer, If3000Fazioli, dh2110Morgan, 2b3100
Coll, lb4100
Dellantonio, 3b4000
Rippee,c2223
Hradsky, p0000
CMUABRHBI
Friedman, 3b4220
Fawcett, ss3100
Novak, lb3221
Brown, rf3110Rubai, If41• 22
Homer, cf2111
Schwab, db3110
Lawrence, c2012
Ponchione, 2b1000
Yogan, ph1011
Perrott, 2b2000
Pattison, p0000
DUQ 000 
CMU 100
401
224
0
innrerhbbso
Pattison, w 753686
Hradsky, 1 69 /71055
CMU 52b-Friedman 2, Novak, Brown, Rubai, 
Schwab. 3b Rippee. SH-Lawrence 2. 
LOB-Duquesne 4, CMU 8
Tartans head for PAC's
The Tartan Golf Team had a full week 
last week as they took part in two tourna­
ments and one dual match.
Two weekends ago, the plaid travelled 
to Oakland Beach Golf Club to take part in 
the Allegheny Invitational. The Tartans fin­
ish ninth in the Field of eighteen Division
II and III teams, and of teams in the Presi­
dents Athletic Conference, they placed sec­
ond. In the three day, 54 hole event, senior 
Scott Mourier turned in a fine score of 234 
including a 76 on the final day. Sophomore 
Gary Petrosky carded a 238.
Last Tuesday, CMU took on Duquesne 
at Churchill Country Club and lost by nine 
strokes to the Dukes. Tom Sheridan shot
a 78 to lead the Tartan charge with Tom 
Mortimer shooting a 78.
Armco Park Country Club was the site 
of the Slippery Rock Invitational, where 
CMU played last Thursday, finishing seven­
th in a field of sixteen teams. Again, the 
Tartans placed second among PAC teams 
behind only Allegheny. Senior Dave Radack 
shot a 76 for the best Tartan round for the 
day.
All that is left for the Tartans is the 
PAC Championships to be held at Avalon 
Lakes Country Club in Warren, Ohio this 
Thursday and .Friday. The team to beat 
there will be Allegheny who the Tartans 
lost to by only seven strokes earlier this 
season.
AlleghenyDuquesneSlippery
Dave Radack82-81-84—2478776
Tom Sheridan86-80-79-2457887
Gary Petrosky77-79-82-2387981
Scott Mourier80-78-76-234-79
Torn Mortimer---------7984
John Lewis82-82-85-24987-
IRON CITY
SCHLITZ
BUD
SCHMIDTS 
CHAMPALE 
STROHS 
GENESEE 
ROLLING ROCK 
SCHLITZ MALT 
BALLANTINE ALE 
MILLER LIGHT 
MICHELOB 
PABST 
MILLER COLT 45
GENESEE CREAM ALE 
BUSCH
SCHLITZ LIGHT
Featuring 22 Varieties Steak SubsSERVING BEER SUNDAY 1 PM 2 AM 
QUARTS - MUGS - PITCHERS 
CHOICE OF 6 DIFFERENT DRAFT BEERSMILLERS. COLT 45. MOL SON ALE. LOWE NBRAU DARK 
STROMS HEINEKEN LIGHT One different 16 ol 6 pk featured each week 
SCHLITZ • PABST 
SCHÜTZ MALT* stroh s * ROLLING ROCK 
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO ADVER­
TIZE OUR LOW BEER PRICES
• SPECIALTY fTEMS •
FRESH CUT FRENCH FRIES • PIZZA SERVED TILL 3 AM 
. HOT DOGS CHOICE OF 12 DIFFERENT CONDIMENTS 
35 VARIETIES OF SANDWICHES 
--------------- IMPORTS -----------------
IHOT DOG SHOPS INC 
amegi-MM lo amegeeMn
• BASS ALE England
• DORT HANSA Germany
• SAM MIGUEL Phrikpines
• SPATENBRAU Germany 
•ST PAULI GIRL Germany 
•PILSNER URQUELL Ciech 
•GUINESS STOUT Ireland 
•DAS XX EOUIS Mexico
• WURZBURGER Germany
• HARP LAGER Ireland 
•LOWENBRAU Germany 
•O KEEFE ALE Canada 
•DINKEL ACKER Germany 
•TECATE Mexico 
•ISENBECK W Germany 
•IRYSTALL Italy
• MACKESON England
• KIRIN Japan
• PERONI Italy
• RIGNES Norway 
•BECKS Germany
• HOFBRAU Germany
• 2YWIEC Poland 
•KRAKUS Poland
• SUPERIOR Mexico •EObltRS A un trail it 
•HEINEKEN Hotand
• MOLSON ALE Canada
• PAULANER Germany 
•GOSSER Auatna
• TANKARO London
• UNION W Germany
• PALE ALE Londori
• DINKEL Germany
• WARFTEINEL Germany
3901 FORBES AV (OAKLAND) PGH PAT5213

---------------------------------------------------

April 29,1980 - TARTAN - Page 17
by Leslie Weiser
Here are the final Intramural announce­
ments of the year.
Please get finals and all games finished 
in the following sports: Softball,Badmin­
ton, Co-Rec Table Tennis, Individual Call 
Pool and Singles Table Tennis.
This is a reminder to all team captains 
in softball to vote for the all-school team 
and individual most valuable player.
The winners in team call pool were: 
First place — 526-11 
Second place — KS-A 
Third place — KS-B
The contest was run by elimination.
The intramural dinner will be held on 
April 29. Social hour will be from 5:30 
PM-6:30 PM and dinner will start promptly 
at 6:30 PM. The IM person of the year will 
be announced at the dinner. It will be open 
to Board members and special guests only.
For the first time in the history of the 
Intramural Board, the president has been 
re-elected to a second term. Bob Dudas will 
retain the office for the 1980-1981 school 
year. Congratulations to. Bob.
220 yd Dash Franklin Smoot-DU 
440 yd Dash Matt Wehrle-Pika 
880 yd Run Revel Vanatta-CIA
Mile Run Steve Bailey-ClA
Low Hurdles Mark Cardwell-SAE
Mile Relay CIA
This year’s intramural track meet was 
held last Thursday at Tech Field with a 
record 138 competitors entered. The event, 
which was ably coordinted by commis­
sioner Craig Woolheater, saw Pika take the 
men’s team title with a total of 94 points. 
CIA came in second with 63 points and 
Spirit w as third with 55 In the Women’s 
competition, Spirit was victorious.
There was one new I.M. record set 
this year as Tom Clancy, competing for 
CIA, cleared the high jump bar at 6 feet, 
1 inch. Here are the other champions.
WOMENS CHAMPIONS 
Shot Put Cheryl Galloway-
Spirit
880 Relay Spirit
100 yd Dash Jo Anne Kovalcik- 
CIA
220 yd Dash Teresa Chambliss- 
Spirit
440 yd Dash Kim Ames-CIA 
880 yd Dash Lisa Hagerman-CIA 
Mile Run Kari Denzau-CIA 
Low Hurdles Marcia Bent-Spirit 
Mile Relay CIA
MEN’S CHAMPIONS 
High Jump Tom Clancy-CIA 6-1
Long Jump Patrick Muir-TX 19-8
Shot Put Gary Drakulic-ATO 40-9
880 relay Pika 1:39 J
100 yd Dash Bill Gens-Pika 10.88
Four champions will be crowned by the end of 
the week in intramural softball.
Here’s to the Tartan year in
SPORTS
to "Knew
A girl becomes a woman 
when she assumes responsibility 
for herself
FOR MOTHERS' DAY
JULIA CHILD AND MORE COMPANY
At Women's Health Services you receive 
professional, confidential help
• Free pregnancy testing
• Free pregnancy counseling
• Termination of unwanted 
pregnancy
• Contraceptive care program
• Sexuality counseling
• Marriage counseling
• Gynecological checkups 
and Pap tests
• Sonography 
Learn how your body works 
and take good care of if 
Call or write today
Julia Child is cooking for company again! And gain 
there is a new book on hand, lavishly illustrated in 
color throughout. Shopping lists, recipes covering 
every detail, guidance on timing, suggested alter­
natives—all you need to reproduce the perfect 
menus she creates to match each special occasion. 
From a Vegetarian Caper (a feast for non-meat 
eaters, featuring a gateau of crepes with colorful 
layers of vegetable fillings) to Lobster Souffle on a 
Platter—see her stretch the costly crustacean to 
create a rich, lobstery, elegant dish for special 
guests. From a Country Dinner of leek and rabbit 
pie to a great bean dish to feed the hungry 
mob—the more company Julia anticipates, the 
more her culinary imagination and skills soar. And 
this time there is a question and answer section for 
many a common kitchen dilemma leaking 
quiches, nonmounting egg whites, peeling 
onions without tears—all coped with in Julias 
inimitable way.
WOMEN S HEALTH 
SERVICES INC 
1209 Al LEGHENV TOWER 
625 STANWIX STREET 
PITTSBURGH PA 15222 
(412)562 1900 
MONDAY SATURDAY
emu bookstore •
nlastasswa
Record number of competitors in IM track meet

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18 - TARTAN - April 29,1980-
AIESEC gains 17 positions
continued from page 6
ity service organization, gaining experience 
in economics, and public and organization­
al planning. Dene will be working for Bank 
of America NT & SA in general banking 
and.economics.
Bernard Lockard will also be in the 
Orient this summer. His traineeship is in 
Kyoto, Japan, with Shimadzu Corp. He 
will be moving through 4 different areas 
of administration and management within 
this manufacturing firm.
The University of Ghana, in Africa, has 
been matched to two CMU students— 
Gary Gordon and Jeanne Jessup. Gary 
has decided to accept the job; he will be 
interviewer for a survey of rural poverty in 
Ghana, and will then become involved in 
the actual data processing.
CMU has the only Pittsburgh chapter of 
AIESEC, and welcomes members from 
other area colleges. Annette Robuck from 
Point P&rk College will graduate in Dec­
ember and then fly to Ireland; where she 
will work for Waterford Glass Ltd. in per­
sonnel records and industrial relations.
Duquesne University student Jim Hall will 
do market research for a manufacturing 
firm in Gothenburg, Sweden.
All of these students will be paid a rea­
sonable wage according to the standard of 
living in the specific countries. They will be 
welcomed by the reception committee of 
the area chapter, and shown to their a- 
partment or other previously arranged 
housing. Once there, activities are sched­
uled so the trainee may fully secure the 
cultural, poltical, and economic perspect­
ives that AIESEC intends to encourage.
The CMU reception committee has lo­
cated housing for the 15 trainees it looks 
forward to hosting this summer. They will 
be employed by companies such as Rock- 
Gulf Oil, and U.S. Steel. The marketing 
committee has already secured several pos­
itions for foreign trainees for the 1981 
International Congress, and plans on great­
ly increasing the number of area students 
that will be able to participate in the tre­
mendous program next year.
Two Senior Mech E's 
Receive Design Award
by Andre W. Jenkins
Two Senior Mechanical Engineering Stu­
dents, Arthur Cobb and Art Lofton placed 
second at a MECH Engineer Project Pre­
sentation Competition in Akron, Ohio. 
Students from 17 colleges and universities 
participated in the regional competition 
sponsored by the American Society of 
Mechanical Engineers.
Lofton and Cobb presented their Senior 
Design (see Dec. 11, 1979 issue of the 
TARTAN) of the fall semester-the fuel- 
efficient automobile. The same project de­
sign won first prize in a local competition 
one month ago. The contest emphasized 
the presentation of the prize rather than
j NOWOPEN
| The Munhall Golf 
; DRIVING RANGE
! Under New Management
j HOMESTEAD-DUQUESNE 
ROAD¦
¦ Only a short 10-minute drive from
Squirrel Hill
DIRECTIONS
2 Across Homestead Hi-Level Bridge.
I Straight ahead up the hill (West St.)
| past Homestead Hospital. Turn left
5 at Bi-Rite Gas Station to Home-
¦ stead-Ouquesne Rd., Range is %
; mile on the left.
OPEN EVERY DAY 
11 a.m.-11 p.m.
the project itself and audience participa­
tion was a major factor in the judges selec­
tion. The vehicle design, however, did spur 
audience enthusiam in the form of ques­
tions and comments. “We were lucky to 
have a project like that,” notes Art Cobb 
who handled the audio visuals while Art 
Lofton discussed the design.
Dr. Porcupile and Dr. Rice of the Mech­
anical Engineering Department were re­
sponsible for inspiring the project which 
brought further recognition to the 
Mechanical Engineering Department at 
CMU as well as providing practical exper­
ience to the engineering seniors prior to 
becoming professionals.
CMU third in program
The CMU students who participated in 
the General Motors Intercollegiate Business 
Understanding Program here last fall have 
placed third out of the fourteen schools 
asked to compete.
As a result, the school will receive a 
stipend of $2,500 and two students, along 
with project advisor Tom Kerr, will go to 
Detroit to meet the Board of Directors of 
General Motors.
The first place school was Notre Dame, 
followed by Ohio State in second place.
Kerr selected the panel of people who 
worked on the project which included a 45 
page paper on BUSINESS AND GOVERN­
MENT : What are the Roles and Responsi­
bilities of Each? Included was a 10 page 
executive summary of the document which 
was presented to the judges when the 
group gave its 1 hour oral presentation 
on April 1.
The group consisted of the following 
graduate students from GSIA: Les Fisher, 
Bob Paisley, Philip DeCarlo, Dave Orner 
and the following undergraduates from 
AMS: Joyce Sowa, Charles Sislen, Gusty 
Sunseri, Kerry Bove, Dave Radack, and 
Laurie Romanowich from H&SS.
The two students who will travel with 
Kerr to Detroit have not yet been selected.
461-9246
>•••••««¦............................
to tvvc
Res'1ro^ .ad** „.¿We v ***
. « a OaSSCS ,6 *«ekS -I
c°'“' • w?av
,<Jen
eoC
^o
SC*'1
,\oQS,es*
C»1Oe
for
a to--
tvx'VS9a,v"
Please send me a schedule of classes
Addr«««: College Addr«»«
I N*mr
The byJe I need iL_____________________________
CMU TRAVEL OFFICE «um».
QQOOOQtOOOOOOpooooooo()0(KlOttjiMÆMMmMMMQ8ii8Qg8fiiiO(>QQ(Klil(HOQOOO()QOOgQOOOOOOQOOQOOOOOOOOOOOQQOQOOOOOOooQOO

---------------------------------------------------

roming events
a.b.
All showings in DH 2210 
May 1 at 6,8 and 10
Seven Brides For Seven Brothers-Another 
of MGM's famous fifties' musicals. With 
Howard Keel and Jane Powell.
May 2 at 6,8:15,10:30 and 12:05
McCabe and Mrs. /W/7/er-Warren Beatty and 
Julie Christie in a turn-of-the-century, 
small town gambling adventure. Directed 
by Robert Altman.
theater
Through May 3, Friday and Saturday 
Footlight Dinner Theatre
CMU students Gregg Kirsopp, Debbie Pol­
lack, Robby Marshall and John McDaniel 
star in Five, Six, Seven, Eight, a revue of 
current Broadway tunes. At the Old Alle­
gheny (next to Heinz Hall). 281-0803 for 
reservations and information.
April 9- May 18 
Pittsburgh Public Theatre
The Public's Final production of the 1979- 
80 season is MacBeth, one of Shakespeare's 
darkest tragedies. Performances at the Alle­
gheny Theatre. 323-1900 for tickets and 
•information. (Reviewed in TARTAN, 
4/22)
May 2 thru 4 and 9 thru 11 
Allegheny Repertory Theatre
The Pittsburgh area's newest theatre pre­
sents their first production, The Transfi­
guration of Benno Blimpie by Albert 
Innautro, the author of Gemini. Pitt 
Theatre in the Cathedral of Learning. $3. 
624-6587 for tickets and information.
May 1 through 11, Thurs-Sun.
Point Park College Theatre Company
Ceremonies in Dark Old Men will be pre­
sented in the Theatre Downstairs at the 
Pittsburgh Playhouse on Craft Avenue. 
621 -4445 for tickets and information.
Through May 3, Thurs-Sun 
University of Pittsburgh
Ronald A. Wisniski stars in the one-man 
show, Bully: An Adventure With Teddy 
Roosevelt. This acclaimed production 
moves to the Mattress Factory on the 
North Side. 231-6036 for tickets and 
information.Summer Theater
(Press release) The Carnegie-Mellon Theatre 
Company (CMTC) will celebrate its fifth 
season this summer with an unusual mix 
of gamblers, dancers, madmen, soldiers 
and lovers. The eight-week season, running 
from June 5 to August 2, will feature 
three full scale mainstage productions by 
CMTC, the professional arm of CMU’s 
noted Drama Department.
The Only Game in Town, written by 
Frank D. Gilroy, will lead off the season 
with a two week run beginning on June 5. 
The play centers around a pair of nature’s 
losers who eventually win out in the end. 
CMTC artistic director Gregory Lehane 
will star as Joe Grady, a hapless Las Vegas 
piano player and compulsive gambler, 
trying to make a killing at the tables. He 
meets with a night club dancer and their 
adventures together bring about a de­
lightfully comic change in their fortunes.
Home, Broadway hit of the seventies, 
will be the second offering with a June 26 
opening. Written by British playwright, 
David Storey, Home is a compassionate 
and moving play involving five characters
m an msane asylum. It was the 1970 
wLiner of the New York Critics Award 
as Play of the Year.
CMTC will close out its fifth season 
with George Bernard Shaw’s classic com- 
edy, Arms and the Man, opening July 18. 
The irreverent and biting Shaw wit is at its 
best in this double-edged satire on war and 
the professional fighting man. The play 
deftly and charmingly suggests the wis­
dom of exchanging the arms of war for 
the arms of a woman. Ever since its first 
performance, Arms and the Man has taken 
a prominent place in the repertory of the 
English-speaking stage.
Subscription prices for the three-play 
summer season range from $12.50 to 
$25.50. For ticket information and reserva­
tions, call the Carnegie-Mellon Theatre 
Company Box office at 621-1326.More Summer Theater
(Press release) The Park Players has an­
nounced plans for its tenth season of free 
theater in the parks.
Sponsored by the Pittsburgh Depart­
ment of Parks and Recreation in cooper­
ation with the Carnegie-Mellon Theatre 
Company, the Park Players will present 
three shows in a rotating repertory from 
June 28 to August 10 in 25 parks through­
out the city.
The shows are Nightclub Cantata by 
Elizabeth Swados, Fables Here and There 
by David Feldshuh and Dandelion by 
Judith Martin.
Nightclub Cantata combines song, dance, 
short stories, poems, musical instruments, 
even imitation bird sounds. It opens with 
‘Things I Didn’t Know I Loved” by 
Turkish poet Naxim Hikmet. The piece 
tells about a man who learns for the first 
time as he stares out the window at age 60 
that he loves the sky, trees, flowers, the 
sea, roads— “even the asphalt kind.'’
Other writers represented in Nightclub 
Cantata are: Chilian poet Pablo Neruda, 
Israeli poet David Avidan and American 
poets, Sylvia Plath, Frank O’Hara, Eve 
Merriam, Delmore Schwartz and Muriel 
Rukeyser.
Music in Nightclub Cantata run the 
gamut from rock, jazz and funky Latin to 
soft ballads.
Fables Here and There brings together 
eleven tales, legends, myths and anecdotes 
from Africa, America, Japan, Russia and 
England. The show employs mime and 
stage fighting.
The third show, Dandelion, a fantasy, 
is geared to children and consists of ten 
playlets, all dealing to some extent with 
evolution and culture.
Roger Cox, a CMU graduate student in 
directing, will serve as producer and artis­
tic director of the show.
All shows by the Park Players are free 
and suitable for people of all ages. The 
public may call Julie Laskaris at 681-9682 
for daily information on where the Park 
Players are performing________________
music
April 30 
Van Halen
Presented by Danny Kresge Enterprises at 
the Stanley Theater. Touring in support of 
Women and Ghildren First.
May 1 at 8 PM, May 2 at 8:30 PM 
May 4 at 2:30 PM 
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
Pianist Horacio Gutierrez will appear as 
guest soloist. Previn will conduct the pro­
gram of Brahms and Rachmaninov. Stu­
dent rush tickets are $3 at the box office 15 minutes before each perfomance.
May 4 at 7:30 PM 
Graham Nash
DiCesare-Engler and WFFM present the 
former CSYN member in a rare solo ap­
pearance at the Stanley Theatre. Tickets 
at Stanley Box office and Kaufmann's.
May 4 at 8PM
Pittsburgh New Music Ensemble
Varied program features trumpeter Wesley 
Ward on Extensions, several ragtime pieces 
and original compositions. At Chatham 
College Chapel. 421-5281 for information.Tharp and Company
May 6 at 8 PM
Bach Choir of Pittsburgh
The immortal oratorio, Elijah, by Felix 
Mendelssohn, will be presented at The 
Church of Ascension at Ellsworth and 
Neville Aves., Shadyside. Student tickets $3 at door. 562-8862 for information.
May 6 and 13
Y Music Society of the Jewish Community 
Center
Andre Previn will be the featured pianist in 
A May Trio Festival. Programs will feature 
Beethoven, Brahms and Ravel. The JCC is 
on Beliefield Ave. in Oakland. 521-8010 
for tickets and information.
May 10 
Journey
The group will be performing at the Civic 
Arena to promote their latest album, De­
parture. A Danny Kresge Production.
May 14 
Rush
Presented by Dicesare-Engler at the Civic 
Arena. Their new album \sPermenant Waves.
One of America’s most distinctively 
innovative dance companies will perform in 
Heinz Hall, Saturday, May 3 at 8:00 pjn. 
when the Pittsburgh Dance Council brings 
the Twyla Tharp Dancers and Dances to 
town.
Tharp has ignited the imagination of 
today’s audiences by choreographing the 
film version of Hair, appearing on Public 
Television’s Dance in America series, chor­
eographing a number for Olympic gold- 
medal figure skater John Curry as well as 
Pittsburgh’s own Lynn Swann, and recent­
ly took Broadway by storm for an explo­
sive three week run.. Several of her pieces 
sparkle in the repertoire of City Center’s 
Joffrey Ballet and she also tailor-made the 
unforgettable jazz-ballet “Push Comes to 
Shove” for Mikhail Baryshnikov.wrct
May 7,12 midnight to 12 midnight
The Make Believe Ballroom -Take a break 
from finals and swing to sounds of the Big 
Bands for 24 straight hours. George Gee 
hosts his final show.
June 2 at 9 PM
Mad John's Musical Mountain
Travel through tje life and music of the late, 
great Jimi Hendrix. Ma John remembers 
the man with the guitar.
Tharp has been hailed as “the most deci­
sive young American dance power today” 
by Vogue, and “the most brilliant and unu­
sual choreographer on the scene” by Deb­
orah Jowitt of The New York Times. Her 
look is distinctly that of Urban America; 
her style is slinky, subtle vigorously clever 
and marked by a casually complex uncon­
ventionality.
Pieces to be performed here include a 
revival of “Ocean’s Motion,” originally pre­
miered in Spoleto, Italy in 1975. Devel­
oped as a character piece of youthful van­
ity and danced to a medly of wildly ener­
getic music by Chuck Berry, “Ocean’s 
Motion” premiered in New York during 
Tharp’s recent Broadway debut which is 
also scheduled for Pittsburgh. The cos­
tumes for this piece were created by 
fashion designer, Ralph Lauren. “Sue’s 
Leg,” a jazz oriented dance choreographed 
to the music of Fats Waller and dedicated 
to Suzanne Weil, will round out the pro­
gram.
The Tharp company’s Pittsburgh pre­
miere on Saturday, May 3 is sponsored by 
the Pittsburgh Dance Council. Tickets are 
available at the Heinz Hall Box Office at 
discount rates to senior citizens, students, 
and groups. For further information 
phone the Dance Council at 355-0330, or 
the Heinz Hall Box Office at 281-5000.
artsfilms
April 30 at 8 PM 
Nana Moskouri
The International Poetry Forum presents 
Nan Mouskori in concert. Ms. Mouskori 
has toured all over the world, and will be 
performing vocal works in Greek, French, 
and English! Tickets may be purchased at 
Heinz Hall or Kaufmann's for $11.00, $9.00, and $7.00. For more information, 
call 621-9893.
Prospectus 80 
CMU Design Show
Carnegie-Mellon's 9enior design students 
display their final projects at the Design 
Center, 5001 Baum Blvd. from April 28 to 
May 9. Gallery hours are Mon-Fri, 9 Am to 5 PM.
Harriet Simcic, Karen Singer, Mary Ann 
Flemming and Liz Strulson 
Forbes Street Gallery
The opening for this exhibit is tonight 
April 29, at 7 PM, refreshments will be 
served. Gallery hours are Tue-Sun, 12:30- 4:30 PM and Tue-Thu, 7-9 PM.
Henri Cartier Bresson: Photographer 
Museum of Art, Carnegie Institute 
A 50 - year perspective exhibition featuring 
the French Photographer will be on view 
through June 8. The exhibition contains 155 photographs personally chosen by 
Cartier Bresson. Plart of a major nationwide 
tour.
SDC film series
May 3 at 6, 8, 10 and 12 in DH 2210 
High Plains Drifter-Clint Eastwood directs 
and stars in this famous Clint Eastwood 
movie. "A western with a supernatural at­
mosphere."
Carpegie institute Film Series 
April 29 at 8 PM
Ugetsu. Kenji Mizoguchi director's series.
Museum of Art Theatre. $1.50 
May 3 at 1:30 PM
Oh, Mr. Porter! Classic 1937 movie in­
cluding famous locomotive chase sequence. 
Museum of Art Theatre. $1.50
May 4 at 7:30 PM
The Passenger Jack Nicholson in a su- 
supenseful and haunting adventure. Lec­
ture Hall. $1.50
May 8 and 9 at 8 PM 
10th Annual Open Screening
Films by Pittsburgh Area residents. Films 
may still be submitted until May 1. 622- 3212 for information. Pittsburgh Film- 
Makers, 205 Oakland Avenue. Free

---------------------------------------------------

classified
College Students' — Summer Jobs!!
Interviewing and reserving now for full­
time/part-time local work, Pittsburgh, and 
surrounding counties. Car necessary, start 
at $5.83/hr., hours flexible. Call (12 noon 
to 4 PM) Monday through Saturday. 
682-6127.
Silver coins wanted. Highest prices. After
5 PM. 521-2749.
May the trees in Schenley 
Grow strong.
May the bagpipes never burst 
May the Allegheny roll right along 
May I thirst the Duquesne thirst
May your steel mills stand forever 
And your Learning tower too 
May Mellon remain clever,
Good Luck and
God Bless you.
With love,
Laurie (Aunt Dot) 
TYPING. Experienced. My Home. Selectric
II. 521-7888.
Male roommate to share Shadyside apart­
ment. 2 BR, furnished, fireplace in bed­
room. 687-7739 after 7 PM. Ask for Jim or 
Sam. $150/month.Shadyside-two and three bedroom luxury
apts. Equipped kitchen, dishwasher, dis­
posal; a/c,w/w, fireplace, bay window, 
security door. $325-$375 plus gas and 
electric. Available May-Sept. Now taking 
applications 3-5 PM 462-7319. After 5 PM, 
362-8887.
Research assistant/Programmer-summer
fulltime workstudy position; assistant in 
research for PA tax commissions on cam­
pus. Applicants should be familiar with 
statistical programs (SPSS and minitab) 
and be able to program in Fortran. Work 
may continue part-time for fall. Contact 
Professor Robert Strauss X2177 or X3672.
$6/hour.
Ride needed to Colorado (or will share
rental car) For mid-May. Call Ann at 621- 
3848 morning or late evening.
Wanted: Programmer for summer opening,
option for fall. Must know Fortran. Know­
ledge of statistics helpful. 578-3661 or 
2173. Ask for Kathy Blackmond. Salary 
negotiable.
Want it done right? Professional typing, ed­
iting prepared by PhD graduate. Manu­
scripts, term papers, theses, dissertations. 
IBM Selectric. Prompt, efficient, reason­
able. Convenient location. Susan, 281-5222. 
TENNIS INSTRUCTORS WANTED: Ex­
cellent high paying Summer jobs (clubs, 
resorts, camps) available through Washing­
ton Tennis Services for students with 
tennis playing or teaching experience. Call 
Mr. Covyeau at (301) 654-3770.
FOR RENT- Oakland area. Furnished 2 
and 3 bedroom apartments plus one room. 
Convenient for 1-4 students. Available May 
1 or Sept. 1. For more information call 
655-1872 after 6 PM.
Hazelwood apartment. 3 rooms and bath.
$150/month plus utilities. Woman pre­
ferred. Call 665-5654 ir 421 -8682. 
SQUIRREL HILL SUBLET. 1. possibly
2, bedrooms in huge apartment available 
for summer with option. AC, W-W. Great 
location, Doug'asSt. near Murray. 521-221
521-2210.clubs
All Marching Band Members and anyone in­
terested in joining Marching Band, Please 
come to Skibo Room 11, Thursday May 1
at 5:00 to be measured for new uniforms. 
Please come so that your new uniform will 
fit you next fall. If you have questions, call 
Chris (364-7214) or Phil (687-8968).official
John P. Crectne, Dean of the College of
Humanities and Social Sciences, will have 
open office hours for students on Tuesday 
from 1:30 to 3:30 PM.
Attention F.A.S.T. tutors! Thjs week will
be the last time to report hours (Wednes­
day, April 30 at 4:30 PM or Thursday, May 
1 at 7:00 PM). Hours will not be accepted 
after this week. If you have any questions 
contact Roxy or Chris at the Peer Help 
Center, x2904.
TO FOREIGN STUDENTS: Remember
that you need an I-20 form in order to come 
back into the United States if you go home 
over the Summer or if you wish t travel out­
side of the United States at any time. If 
you need an I-20, you can call me on X2055 
and I will make one up for you to get the 
next day. Mary Stockton, Foreign Student 
Advisor.
Spanish SPI STUDENTS: The final testing
period for Self-Paced spanish will be on 
April 28, 29, and 30 in the language lab, 
310 Margaret Morrison Hall. No tests will 
be given during the final exam period due 
to closing of the language lab. My office' 
hours are Tuesdays, 1:30 to 3:30, Baker 
Hall Rm 232C. Lisa Fedorka-Carhuaslla.
The main lost and found department for 
the University is located at Security, 155 
Baker Hall. Some of the unclaimed items 
include valuable radios, calculators, cam­
eras, and jewelry. There are also quite a 
few gloves, umbrellas, keys, and glasses. 
These items will be released to persons 
able to furnish an adequate description as 
well as the approximate time lost.general
A $1000 grand prize will be awarded in the
Poetry Competition sponsored by the World 
of Poetry, a quarterly newsletter for poets.
Poems of all styles and on any subject 
are eligible to compete for the grand prize 
or for 49 other cash or merchandise awards. 
Says contest director, Joseph Mellon, "WE 
are encouraging poetic talent of every kind, 
and expect our contest to produce exciting 
discoveries." Rules and official entry forms 
are available from World of Poetry, 2431 
Stockton Blvd., Dept. N, Sacramento, Cal­
ifornia 95817.
Want to help someone help themselves
this summer? Volunteer at The Home For 
Crippled Children! There are physically 
handicapped kids at the The Home For 
Crippled Children who are looking for 
someone to lend a helping hand in the 
areas of swimming, recreation, physical 
therapy, educational classrooms, field trips 
and others. Times needed: morning, after­
noon, evening. If you are interested or 
need further information, call Barbara 
Clougherty 521-9000, ext.316.
The Hunt Institute for Botanical Documen­
tation, Carnegie-Mellon University, will 
present a major exhibition of late 18th and 
early 19th century botanical watercolors 
from March 31 through July 18, 1980. The 
show, entitled "A Selection of Indian Bo­
tanical Paintings," will feature some seven­
ty boldly handsome, yet graceful illustra­
tions by Indian artists who worked under 
commission from the East India Company.-
"A Selection of Indian Botanical Paint­
ings" will be on display in the Penthouse of 
Hunt Library on the Carnegie-Mellon Uni­
versity campus and is open from 9:00 AM 
to 5:00 PM, Monday through Friday. The 
exhibition is open to the public free of 
charge.
For the sixth consecutive year the Cleve­
land. Play House will offer a six-week 
Theatre School at Chautauqua Institution.
The school, coordinated by Richard 
Oberlin and directed by Kenneth Albers, 
will be offered June 30-Aug.8. ’
Both an introductory and an advanced 
curriculum will be offered this summer. 
Students will be introduced to the various 
disciplines and crafts of the theatre and 
given a firm basis for continuation of train­
ing in movement, voice, improvisation, 
theatre games, scene study and vocabulary.
Admission is limited to students over 16 
years of age. Five hours of college credit 
recommendation will be available for this 
intensive course which meets a minimum 
f five to six hours per day. Scholarships 
will be available. Apply by June 1 for audi­
tions to be held June 28 at Chautauqua. 
For further information,, contact the 
Schools Office, Box 28, Chautauqua, NY 
14722.
The City of Pittsburgh, Department of
Parks and Recreation has summer job open­
ings in its summer arts program. Applicants 
must be able to work outside, work with 
children, have a well rounded knowledge of 
art, be able to organize arts activities for 
large groups of either children or adults. 
Those students who are interested should 
send a resume to Arts in the-Park, Depart­
ment of Parks and Recreation, 400 City- 
County Building, Pittsburgh, Pa 15219. Be 
sure to include your current phone number. 
All aplicants must be city residents and able 
to qualify under summer employment 
guidelines. For further information, please 
call 255-2354.
Self Defense classes for women of high
school age or older are being offered by the 
Feminist Karate Union begining June 17 
and 21 st, 1980 at Falk School Gymnasium, 
Allequippa St., Oakland. These classes 
meet on Tuesdays fro 7 PM to 8:30 PM 
and Saturdays from noon to 1:30. Each 
class meets once a week for ten weeks and 
is designed for women with no prior know­
ledge of Martial Arts. Formal Karate train­
ing is also available for graduates of the self 
defense courses. Instructor is Bobbi Synder 
Fifth degree Black Belt, Director of Wo­
men's Activities and Assistant Pennsylvania 
State Representative for United States 
Karate Assosiation, and Chief Instructor 
for the Feminist Karate Union. Ms.^Synder 
is available to speak on the subjects of rape 
prevention and self defense for women at 
general meetings, seminars, group activities, 
etc. There is no charge for this service. 
Please call to arrange mutually convenient 
dates. Information and registration forms 
may be obtained by mailing a stamp, self- 
addressed envelope to ; Ms. Bobbi Snyder, 
1724 Sillview Drive, PGH, PA 15243, or 
by calling 276-4527 or 683-8827.
National B'nai B'rith Hillel is sponsoring
four exciting programs for university stu­
dents to experience and learn about Israel. 
It is possible to obtain from 3-6 units of
college credit. Approximate cost of trips 
is $1,1,50, including airfare. Programs are- 
'I. Kibbutz Seminar; II. Sephardic Culture
& Community; III. Political Culture and 
Ideaology; IV. Holocaust and Redemp­
tion. For more information, pick up a 
brochure in the Hillel office, 3rd floor, 
315 S. Bellefield Avenue.
B'nai B'rith Hillel of Pittsburgh,the campus
Jewish Student Organization seeks a part- 
time graphics/publicity person. The job in­
cludes designing posters, flyers, invitations 
and program announcements; writing news 
releases; coordinating publicity of events 
with printers and new editors. Hours flex­
ible. Contact Rabbi Joseph H. Levine, 621- 
8875 or 621-6500, ext. 77.
BE A BIG BROTHER OR BIG SISTER.
There is a boy or girl in the Pittsburgh 
area who needs just a little of your time- 
to know you care, to know you are there. 
Call Big Brothers and Sisters of Greater 
Pittsburgh, Inc., 621-6100.
Hillel has applications for the National
Hillel Summer Institute to be held August 
20-27, 1980, in Starlight, Pa. The theme of 
the week will be JUDAISM IN TRAN­
SITION. Deadline for the application is 
May 1.
The City of Pittsburgh, Department of
Parks and Recreation has summer job open­
ings in its concert and film program. Appli­
cants must have some knowledge of audio­
visual equipment, be willing to work eve- 
nigs and weekends, and the ability to lift 
and carry heavy equipment. Those students 
who are interested, should send a resume 
to Christina Beaman, 400 City-County 
Building, Pittsburgh, PA 15219. Please re­
member to include a current phone number 
on your resume. All applicants must be city 
residents and able to qualify under summer 
employment guidelines. For more informa­
tion, Please call 255-2354.
scholarships
Period is open for Army ROTC Scholar­
ships. 3 year scholarship application period 
runs until 1 May. The Army Scholarship 
'pays full tuition, books, fees, and provides 
$100 per month. It also guarantees an 
Active Army Officer appointment in one 
of over forty specialties from infantry to 
finance, from aviation to communications, 
from engineering to artillery. For addition­
al information, see Major Johnson in Gym 
203 or call 578-2196.
A new opportunity for study in Denmark
will be offered this fall when Scandinavian 
Seminar begins its one-semester program 
for college students and other adults. The 
program will start at the end of July and 
extend over the fall months till mid- 
December.
It will be run along the same lines as 
Scandinavian Seminar's regular academic 
year program in Denmark, Finland, Nor­
way or Sweden. After a short introduc­
tory course, the students will participate 
in an intense two-week language course and 
then spend some time with a Dianish family 
practicing the language.
For further information, write to: 
Scandinavian Seminar, 100 East 85th 
Street, New York, New York 10028.
HAVE A FANTASTIC SUMMER!
(but ace those finals first.. J
