VOLUME VSEPTEMBER 28, 1910 
PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA
NUMBER 2
»UbmmKLYMTllDLimOf-THE

---------------------------------------------------

2THE TARTAN
4<HK‘4<i:4<>4<^D4<>4<>4<>4<f4^4<»4*C>4*D4'04-04*04-0
Joseph Horne Co.
PENN AND FIFTH AVENUES.
T. & T.
(Meaning Techs and Tartans)
WHERE DO YOU BUY YOUR CLOTHES?
You boys and girls, who are so enthusiastic 
over the world renowned Tech School, do you 
ever come down our way to see what we have 
for you?
Some of you do, because we know a Tech 
smile, when we see it; but we want more of 
you to come to our store, especially to these 
departments:
THE SECTION FOR MISSES' CLOTHES.
THE SECTION FOR YOUTH’S CLOTHES.
There’s every style that Fashion pronounces 
correct for young people.
The prices? Just such modest prices as 
you’d expect to find attached to clothes that 
represent style and quality.
A COMPLETE LINE
Of
Drawing Instruments and Supplies 
Camras and Photographic Supplies 
Eyes Examined, Glasses Ground, Frames Fitted
Wm. M. Stieren Opital Co.
623 LIBERTY AVENUE
3Dc 2TH
that we print more books than any firm in the East End ? .So T©-u. ICno-wthat our Programs, Topic Cards and Leaf­lets elicit the admiration of lovers of FinePrinting ?......................................................JDo Tom Enowthat we are prompt, and that an order for a dollar receives as much care and at­tention as one for a hundred dollars? . 
If you are fastidious, if you require prompt and efficient service, come to . 
SPAHE Sz. 14ITSCHEE,
6117-6119 Kirkwood Street 
tha wa ea tprihnmob Mgr., Tartan, is our representative at “Tech.”
Bell Phones—86 and 9216 Hiland
4*4*+*??**4*
For specials occasions when you want the best try Du- 
quesne, the coffee of quality; one cartons, 30c lb.
GEO. K. STEVENSON CO.
Sixth Avenue opp. Trinity Church 
Highland and Center Avenues, East End
Ä See us for your Class, School, Club and Fra 
ternity Pins
* HEEREN BROS. & CO.
^ Penn Avenue and Eighth Street
4* We make and sell the Official “Tech” Pins <*? £ 
\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\*%*\*%*\*\*\*\*\*
4*r*/4*/4**4*/
GEO. L. KOPP & CO.
Drawing Instruments and Material
Student’s Note Books and a large assortment of 
Loose Leaf Binders. Repairing, Artists’s Ma- 
terials
STATIONERY"—ENGRAVING—EMBOSSING 
704 Smithfield Street Pittsburgh, Pa.
Barkley & Cummings
FORBES STREET PHARMACY
DO U KNO? We carry a full line of: 
Ankle Braces, Wristbands, Knee Caps, Station­
ery, School Supplies, Etc.
4,N4*\4*\4,\4,VI,\4,N4,N4,\4,\4,\4,N4,\4,\4,\4,\4,N4,\
4* i,¡g. Our Sanitary Soda Fountain is Unexcelled 
4*4j Reymers, Johnstons and Park & Tilfords’ Con-
4» fections always fresh and plenty to select from. 4**
KURTZ, LANQBEIN & SWARTZ J
0 Are now iu their new building, 535 Wood S treet ^ 
^ Stationery, Engraving, Artists’ Materials *
Oj Draughtmen’* and Engineer*’ Supplies
v\m\
MacDonald’s
Candies and Ice Cream Soda ..Dainty Lunch 
Tables for Ice Cream—Fancy Boxes—Baskets 
Favors, Etc.
208 SIXTH ST. PITTSBURG, PA.

---------------------------------------------------

®!\e ®artan
VOL. V PITTSBURGH, PA., WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1910 No. 2
SOPHS VICTORIOUS
Plebes lose class scrap by Score of 16'/2—13J4. 
Wild Scenes on Tech Field
The Sophomore Class of 1913 demonstrated its su­
periority over the incoming Freshman Class by the 
close score of 16% points to 13y2 points, when the 
two classes clashed Friday afternoon, September 23. 
The affair was the most successful that has ever 
been pulled off at Tech. The program was carried 
through without a hitch.
At one o’clock the stands began to fill with specta­
tors. The Margaret Morrison Carnegie School ar­
rived enmasse at one-thirty and occupied the entire 
center of the grand-stand. Brilliant costumes, laugh­
ing girls, pennants waving gave the place an appear­
ance of gaiety and scintillation never-to-be-forgotten. 
At two o’clock the crowd had increased to fifteen hun­
dred people, clamoring eagerly for things to begin. 
Ten minutes later the rival classes marched into the 
field, led by the Tech band. Loud cheers filled the 
air as the Sophs, followed by the Plebes, marched 
about the field in single file, doing the snake-walk to 
the stirring strains of the Alma Mater. Both columns 
ended up in the center of the field where each class 
complimented the other by giving round after round 
of yells. At a word the orderly lines were broken 
and a wild scramble for the bleachers ensued. The 
first event, a baseball game between picked teams 
from each class, was begun.
The teams lined up as follows:
Plebes—Acheson, c; Hull, p; Snyder, 3; Daugherty, 
2; Quinlan, m.; Dyer, 1.; Brine, ss.; Pate, 1st; Dout- 
hett, r.
Sophs—Vail, 1.; Blanchard, 2; Saunders, 3; Moor­
head, 1st; Gearhart, ss.; Kirk, m.; Seigle, r.; Ful­
mer, c.; Beisgen, p.
Acheson led off with a single and advanced to 
second when Hull beat out a bunt. He started for 
third when Beisgen threw the ball to center field in 
an attempt to catch him at second, but was retired by 
a great throw by Kirk. Snyder fouled to Saunders 
and Daugherty struck out. Two hits and no runs.
Vail hit to left field for a single and went to sec­
ond when Dyer fumbled the ball. Hull then made a 
wild pitch and Vail continued to third. Blanchard 
hit to the shortstop and Vail was put out at the 
plate. Saunders hit to short and Blanchard scored 
when Brine threw the ball over the first baseman’s 
head. Saunders continued around the bases but was 
called out for cutting second. Moorhead struck out. 
One hit and one run.
In the second inning Quinlan drew a base on balls. 
Dyer struck out and Brine reached first on an error 
by Gearhart, Quinlan reaching third. Gearhart 
threw out Pate and Douthett popped up a foul to 
Moorhead. No hits and no runs. For the Sophs, 
Gearhard sent a long fly to the center fielder. Kirk 
singled, stole second, and scored on Seigle’s two-base 
hit. Beisgen drove in Seigle with a single after Ful­
mer fanned. Vail struck out. Three hits and two 
runs.
In the third, Acheson made a two-bagger and 
scored on Hull’s duplicate. Hull stole third. Snyder 
fanned, and Maddison, who went in in place of 
Daugherty, sent a a short fly to Kirk. Quinlan scored 
Hull with a single. Dyer then hit the ball over the 
left fielder’s head for two bases, scoring Quinlan, but 
was thrown out when he tried to advance to third.

---------------------------------------------------

4THE TARTAN
He would have made third easily had he not slipped 
in rounding first base. Four hits and three runs.
The game was called at this point. Final score:
R. H .E.
Sophs ..................................................1 2 0—3 5 1
Plebes .................................................0 0 3—3 6 4
Umpires—Hittner, MeCorkle.
The second event on the program was a soccer 
football game. Teams of twenty men each repre­
sented their respective classes. The contest was 
more than interesting. Expert association players 
failed to find much instruction in witnessing the 
struggle but those in search of excitement got what 
they were after. Efforts to advance the ball re­
sulted in dozens of bruised shins while every attempt 
at team-work degenerated into a cross between old- 
style line plunging and a battle-royal. The Sophs had 
much the better of the contest throughout, keeping 
the ball in their opponents’ territory at almost every 
stage of the game. The periods of play were two ten- 
minute halves. Although the Plebes were slightly 
outclassed in the kicking department, the game was 
not decided until Jimmy Taylor, with two minutes 
to play, kicked the one goal made during the game. 
The final score was 1—0 in favor of the yearlings.
Individuality marked the third event on the card 
when the wrestling matches took place. The Plebes 
won hands down, not allowing their hated rivals a 
single fall. Three husky men from each class com­
peted. The best out of three falls decided the vic­
tory in light, middle and heavyweight wrestling. As 
mat performers, the 1913 men were outclassed. Deaf­
ening applause followed each bout and when the 
final Soph fell to defeat, pandemonium reigned among 
the Freshmen, who rushed out upon the field to cheer 
their champions. The contestants in the wrestling 
contests were:
Heavyweight—Kukuvitch, ’13 vs. Auerswald, ’14.
Lightweight—Lambert ’13 vs. Milligan ’14.
Middleweight—Richter ’13 vs. Cwearigen ’14.
Each bout was won by the Plebe in two straight 
falls.
The tug-o’-war came next and was the prettiest 
contest of the afternoon. Seventy-eight men from 
each class pulled against each other. The men were 
placed along the two-hundred foot rope and at a 
given signal, the big cord was pulled taut as a steel 
cable. For at least three minutes the struggle was 
magnificent. The center of the rope did not move 
more than six inches either way. Then slowly but 
surely the Sophs were pulled toward the Plebe side, 
fighting like demons. In another twenty seconds the 
Plebes were tearing down the field, dragging the 
rope after them amid exultant shouts of victory.
The sack rush was then placed upon the boards. 
The classes lined up at opposite ends of the field. 
Each class had in its possession a heavy sack of flour 
which it attempted to carry down the field. Thus, 
the rush was divided into two parts, viz., the Sophs
carrying a sack akainst the Plebes and the Plebes 
carrying one against the Sophs. When the whistle 
blew, each ran to the center of the field where a 
grand struggle followed. The Plebes, by crafty 
strategy, devised a means of identification. They 
smeared their faces with black paint. Ror a moment 
the Sophs were taken aback. A few minutes counsel, 
a shout and in thirty seconds Soph and Plebe looked 
alike. The all-knowing ones had discovered a mix­
ture of lard and lamp-black whic hthey used un­
hesitatingly. At the end of ten minutes, time was 
called and the 1913 men were declared victors, hav­
ing carried their sack farther past the center of the 
field than did-the green-button wearers. An amusing 
incident in connection with the sack rush occurred 
a few minutes after the decision was announced. A 
half-dozen Plebes, attempting to pilfer the two sacks 
of flour, were set upon by the Soph and when the 
rest of the Freshmen came to the rescue, a free-for- 
all ensued which resulted in a deluge of the white 
powder. By the time the sacks were emptied, the 
contestants looked like millers.
The semi-wind-up was the most spectacular of all 
the rushes. It was the square rush. The classes 
lined up as in the sack rush and at a given signal 
tore into the center of the field where a ten-foot 
square had been marked out. The object of the con­
test was to occupy the space within the square. The 
class having the most men inside at the blow of the 
whistle, after ten minutes’ struggle, tvas to be de­
clared winner. The two bodies came together with a 
mighty crash and the fight which followed was in­
describable. Fighting, punching, pulling and tear­
ing followed, until the contest was stopped by the 
officials. In the pile of squirming forms within the 
coveted area it was an absolute impossibility to tell 
Soph from Plebe, so tangled up did the struggle be­
come. Several of the classmen were temporarily dis­
abled but came around alright later. Owing to the 
fact that no decision could be rendered, the event 
was declared off and no score was awarded.
The score now stood, Sophs 12%, Plebes 13%. The 
greased pig was then brought out.
A two-hundred pound porker, covered with a two- 
inch coat of axle-grease and lard was liberated on the 
middle of the field. After a short chase, he was cap­
tured, being too frightened to put up much resistance. 
Although two hundred and fifty fellows tried to get 
hold of the porcine beauty, only six were successful. 
As five of these were Sophomores, the event was 
awarded to them, giving the 1913 boys the honors of 
the day by the close score of 16%—13%.
It was five o’clock when the final reckoning was 
announced and although the bunch was weary and 
worn, it took but little persuasion to get them up to 
the top of the hill where eats galore were in readi­
ness. Cider, sandwiches, pickles and lemonade filled 
an aching void within the wild ones. The Plebes 
carried great piles of wood and a bon-fire was lit 
that lasted way into the night. During the evening 
stories and songs were in progress and it was a late

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN5
hour when the last of the revellers departed.
The class struggle was taken in charge by the 
Senior Class, who made all arrangements and con­
ducted fne proceedings in a most able manner. The 
Class of 1911 has the honor of managing the most 
successful class scrap in the history of the schools, 
and great credit is due them for their efforts in 
this direction.
The winning Sophomore class is the first that has 
been able to chastise the Plebes in a class-day con­
test and they are justly proud of their prowess.
The Tech band is also in the line-up for a place 
on the honor-roll. The boys certainly did add spirit 
and zest to the proceedings. The official score: 
Event i Winner I Points
Totals ..................................... 16% 13 y2
Scorekeepers—Ditman, Wallace, Gettman.
1SophsPlebes
Baseball ..............Tie2%2%
Football ......................Sophs5
Wrestling ..................Plebes6
Tug-o’-war .................Plebes5
Sack Rush..................Sophs5
Square Rush..............No Decision
Greased Pig...............Sophs4
COMMENCEMENT ADDRESS.
The speech delivered at the Carnegie Music Hall 
on June 15th, 1910, by Dr. William Stephen Rains- 
ford, former rector of St. George’s Church, New York 
City, was one of the most brilliant addresses ever de­
livered in the city of Pittsburg. It was delivered be­
fore the 1910 graduating classes and, owing to the 
late date, was not published. The address in full 
follows:
Ladies and gentlemen, faculty and trustees, gradu­
ates, students, friends:
I have been most kindly introduced to you on the 
one simple ground on which I am glad and proud to 
stand before you. I am an old friend of Arthur 
Hamerschlag. Years ago he and I worked together 
over the problem of education in New York. Our 
beginnings were very small; our plant, inconsider­
able. A twenty-four-foot tenement house and five 
thousand dollars a year was all we had, and, I think, 
all we ever had, while we were working at that to­
gether. But the ideas were right, and therefore we 
won out. We worked together in those ideas be­
cause we had a great, common belief. It was not a 
creed—for my friend did not in those days belong to 
my church, and I did not know what his creed was. 
It was not a political party—I never knew the ticket 
he voted. And yet we were philosophic democrats, 
that was our creed. And what is that creed?
I come today to try and say a few words to you, 
young men and women, and, if I may, not only touch 
your hearts, but carry with me your brain. It is 
absolutely essential, men and women, that if we are 
going to do good work in fce world today, we should 
not only be right but think straight. Straight think­
ing is as essentially to the benefit of our time and 
race as straight living. You designate yourself by
your thought as truly as by your act. And we live in 
days when there is an enormous amount of false, 
slushy thinking. This is apropos of what I am try­
ing to describe as the common creed; for everybody 
that works together must have a common creed, as 
your Director and I had. It was this—and I ask you 
not to forget it. It is so simple that most men pro­
fess to believe it, and yet its deep significance the 
best of us do not sufficiently emphasize. It was. this 
—it was our creed long ago and it is our creed today: 
“There is more good than bad in man; therefore, it 
pays to educate him.”
Men, wise sometimes and timid sometimes, come 
to you and say: “The country is going wrong; 
terrible times we live in. The great men of the past 
had half a dozen books, very inferior schools, scarce­
ly any colleges, and they were great men. The 
trouble with you today is there are too many schools, 
too many colleges, too many books. Mary Ann learns 
to play the piano, and she ought to only understand 
cooking.” Pardon me, ladies; you know, as many 
people do. And so on, and so on, and so on. You 
do not want simply to get into a rage and fall on 
that good man, timid soul that he is. He is pro­
jecting his own timidity on your courage. But you 
want to be able to reason with him, to make him and 
the next man understand what the reason of that 
mistake is. You want a little straight thinking. You 
want to come back to the simple bed-rock of philoso­
phic democracy (which we all profess to believe, 
whether we be Republicans or Democrats) that there 
is more good, even in a bad man, than bad; and there­
fore it pays to educate him. That is the philosophy 
that lies deep at the bottom of all our efforts. That 
mighty truth is a thing that is going to justify our 
national struggle in the end.
Now, I want, if you give me your thought just for 
a few moments, I want to point out to you the way 
of this. This argument—there is too much push, too 
much education, too much of this higher education— 
occasionally sounds strong, occasionally sounds wise; 
because it borrows this saw, it says: “Let us follow 
nature, go nature’s way. Nature indicates the strong 
and the fitted to survive. You are forcing nature too 
much.” I remember years ago hearing a thing said 
you would scarcely hear today, that the philanthropy 
of today is bound to fail, because it goes athwart the 
wise purpose of nature, in making the least fit sur­
vive, we are going athwart nature’s great purpose, 
and therefore we are going towards inevitable defeat. 
Shallow and untruthful philosophy, because the great 
truth that is born in us today in every department of 
life in this—and I ask you, young men and women, 
never to forget it—that nature is meant to be not our 
master but our servant, and we win our crude place 
in the economy of humanity, not by yielding to na­
ture, but by making nature yield to us.
I have just come from lone travelling and wander­
ing in a land where for countless thousands of years 
nature has had her own way. What is the rule of 
that land? What attains when nature works out, 
unthwarted, undirected, her own way? Truly, some­
thing analagous to that in which the Judge has so

---------------------------------------------------

6THE TARTAN
eloquently referred just now. It is the land of 
cruelty and strife, it is the land of ignorance and 
disease, of blood, misery, and death. Africa is the 
land where women are but chattels, where men live 
like monkeys and die like dogs. That is what is 
attained where nature, unrestricted, unforced, has its 
way.
Education, ever and always, aids man’s persistent 
struggle to control and force nature to do his higher 
bidding. The miner does not create the coal, he 
finds it; the electrician does not create the electricity, 
he controls it. The farmer finds the swamp, and 
leaves the home and the garden. Nature kills half 
the babies. It is by wrestling with nature bitterly, 
life unto death, that we win; the command which the 
old Book long ago, in mystic but everlastingly true 
words, said, “Go forth and control and master the 
world, which is thine.”
And now I want to talk to you as man to man for 
a few minutes. And these young faces, the hope in 
them, the promise in them, moves me down to the 
bottom of my heart. I want to talk to you a few 
minutes about the education you have had in this 
great institution, what it is fitting and h:.is titled you 
for
First of all, it is a struggle for yourself. Do not 
be afraid to state it. An honest fitness for a struggle 
for yourself. You cannot do the best you are fitted 
to do in the world except you succeed yourself. Are 
you a success now, in the greatest sense of the term? 
May I, for just one minute, refer personally to this 
subject? For a man can after all put a thing before 
his younger brother or sister more clearly if he gives 
a personal tone. In 1876 I landed in New York 
without a friend and just fifty dollars in my pocket. 
I never took another penny after that from my father, 
and I had to make my way. It was very hard to 
make friends and to keep out of debt, but I did it. 
And I know no keener or more legitimate joy than 
the joy that comes to a man who feels that by his 
own power he has won out. And I would give my 
hand, if I could, from this platform, to every one of 
you graduates of Carnegie Technical Schools today, 
and I would say from the bottom of my heart, young 
men and women, I hope and believe that a legitimate 
presence of the true and laudable desire to win your­
self that joy may be given. And I know, in the far 
future, when we can sum up the result of the long 
struggle, my dear friend here and those who so splen­
didly assist him will have that joy appear, that the 
good they did and tried to pass on to others has its 
legitimate fruition in that legitimate success that I 
wish from the bottom of my heart you each may win.
But then there is another struggle. I cannot speak 
of it at length, but any good man or woman is aware 
of it, even as I pause for a moment to describe it. It 
is the struggle, not for ourselves, but with ourselves. 
I recall reading in an old book, I believe out of print, 
the account by a keen observer of that terrible 
struggle on the field of Waterloo which finally crush­
ed Napoleon. He said there was an officer he knew, 
a man of courage but a man of very great nervous­
ness, who had never been in action before. And you
will doubtless remember that the battle of Waterloo 
was one of the fiercest and most prolonged struggles 
in that day of fierce struggles which history records. 
And this man, with the traditions of an old family 
behind him, stood in front of his battalion, largely 
made of young boys dho had never smelled the smoke 
of battle, stood and stood and stood for hours, as 
the splendid artillery of Napoleon plowed and plowed 
and plowed its furrows through the English battalion 
that had to stand and take it. And when the first 
round shot came and cut its bloody swath through 
the young men, someone noticed that the very knees 
of the captain who stood there in front of his men 
shook—never had seen the round shot do its work 
before. And one standing near him, looking at him, 
saw his face pale as death and heard him, between 
his clenched teeth, as he looked at his own shaking 
knees, hiss out these words: “It’s all very well to 
shake like that, but if you knew where I was going 
to take you, you would give way altogether.” 
And that is it, after all. Deep down in our hearts, 
those of us who even win a measure of success, know 
that we only win it because we continue right to the 
bitter end the struggle with the lower qualities in 
ourselves.
Then you are face to face with the next aspect of 
struggle, an aspect of this law of life which is only 
beginning to be understood, and, I venture to be­
lieve, when it is understood, will lift our faith to a 
larger and clearer light, perhaps, than we have 
known yet. We may not be able to account for it, 
but the fact remains that, when we reach a certain 
point in our development, there is born in the normal 
man—I am not speaking of the abnormal philanthro­
pist, but any normal man—there is born an unquench­
able passion to help those less fortunate and lucky 
than himself. But I remember so well 
when, after I had left the university, at which I learn­
ed very little, not a tithe of what you fellows know, 
and didn’t study, I am sorry to say, nearly as well 
as most of you study, went out a green boy from the 
university, as most of us did in those days, not know­
ing much—it was only when I came in contact with 
the world I began to know; and then I began one of 
the first lessons. When I came home—I remember 
now with what startling and disrupting influence it 
came—I began to see that men were not and could 
not be, in a real fundamental sense, equal. In spite 
of the philosophers, and I had sympathy with them, 
in spite of all the people that kept crying “Liberty! 
Fraternity! Equality!”, I saw what that cry meant. 
I began to see that no man can begin to broaden out 
towards this effort without feeling the overwhelm­
ing, controlling march of that passion to bring free­
dom to the oppressed, to bring love to those who 
have not been loved, to bring an equal chance to 
those who have no chance. But yet, when we have 
done our best thinking, our best liberating, our best 
living, the inevitable comes down on us with the 
weight of an avalanche, you cannot make men equal; 
for some are born to be six feet, and some quit at 
five; some are born to be clever and some are stupid; 
some seem to be born with four fingers and a very

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN7
useful thumb, and some are born with four fingers 
that want to turn themselves into thumbs on some 
occasions. Some girls—and all will be with me now 
—are born to be pretty, and some are born to be 
plain. Some are born to be to have that divine gift 
of making friends, and some are born with the sad 
faculty of losing them. Nothing is less true than 
that men are born equal. But there is born in the 
soul of the equal or the unequal, that profound and 
molding passion, the passion that no man ever more 
eloquently stated than our great, our greatest of the 
great, our martyred president, Abraham Lincoln, 
when he said, “I can see in the distance the time 
coming when the burden shall be lifted from all 
shoulders and men shall have an equal chance.” Not 
altogether, but as far as man’s loving care for his 
fellow can make it.
Young men and women, I congratulate you, then, 
with all my heart, on this chance, in the struggle in 
which you have already engaged and which is going 
to engage you, which is going to tax you, which is 
going to be with you in your days of prosperity and 
in your days of struggle, not simply with yourself, 
but the struggle for the less fortunate than yourself. 
And, after all, isn’t this our chief ground for con­
gratulation today, that we, we most fortunate in our 
time, are living in a land, not the greatest because it 
is the biggest, not the greatest because it is the rich­
est, not the greatest because its cotton or its corn 
produce outdistance the world, but because there is 
no land on which the sun shines, take it all in all, 
that gives every man so good a chance. Therefore, 
we thank God and our fathers, for where we are and 
what we are, and, by the help of God, will try and 
make good.
And now, will you bear with me still for a moment 
or two, and I will speak of this. What deduction 
would I draw? What would I urge on you? I would 
urge this. Do not forget. It is no platitude of the 
platform, it is no honeyed sentence, got off today 
simply to win a clap, but it is a profound historical 
truth. This land in which we have come to play our 
part, can only be what it ought to be, for the present 
and for the far and unknown future, if you and I 
determine we will do our duty by our land. I invite 
you, as one who has done a little struggling, his 
best struggling over probably, I invite you, whose 
struggle is beginning, boys and girls, do not forget, 
whatever you do, whatever you fail in doing, when 
you come to lay down your trowel or your sword or 
your book, whatever it is, that this land in which we 
live is worth working for, and your duty cannot be 
done by talking, your duty cannot be done by clapp­
ing, your duty cannot be done by cheering on others. 
It can only be done because you and I and every­
body, both the leaders and those in the ranks, de­
termine that we will do what we can for the land. 
And you will do what you can for this great, broad 
land of ours in one way pre-eminent. I will not 
amplify it longer, for I have not time. But I would 
say, as one to you that had had some experience in 
the different conditions of life in this land, that what 
the United States wants—my friend Arthur Hamer-
schlag would agree with me, and the faculty, his 
friends, I am sure would agree too—we want men 
and women to go out from this splendid audience 
today fitted to endure, to struggle for this land in 
office. If you get a chance to hold an office in this 
land, however, small it may be, for your own sake, 
for your children’s sake, for the United States’ sake, 
take that office and fill it as an American man or 
woman should. Do what you can, to drive back in 
the dark that wicked, rotten life that the politicians 
establish. Let us put away forever—and we can 
only do it by proving that we are not scoundrels— 
let us put away forever that terrible thought that 
springs up in our big cities and issues from the 
mouths of the thoughtless, and sometimes from those 
who ought to know better, that there is something 
in public office that degrades men. Instead of that, 
there is something in public office in this land that 
lifts up men to that noble standard under which men 
were meant to rest. That rests with 
you. For life after all—and now I draw to the close, 
and you have been kind to listen to me so long—life, 
after all, is a chance to strive, as you have already 
been told; we all come absolutely to grip hands on 
this platform—life is a chance to strive, not a chance 
to get things for one’s self mainly, but to do things 
for others.
Will you bear with me if I again reminisce a little 
bit? I have seen something of life, since I landed in 
New York in ’76. I have seen something of the inner 
life of the great and the very successful; and Hamer- 
schlag would tell you I have seen something of the 
life of the under dog too. And I say without fear of 
exaggeration, that I have known many men who 
made their life aim, who won what they started out 
to win, who got things for themselves, and who suc­
ceeded in the most ample measure. They have got 
great wealth, they have got great learning, they 
even have got great popularity. But there is some­
thing in the soul of man, as the greatest Man that 
ever lived once said, there is something in the soul 
of man which forbids man to be satisfied, the eye 
with seeing, or the ear with hearing, or the belly with 
eating. Man cannot live by bread alone, but by 
every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. 
I have seen man win great wealth: he was not satis­
fied. Great learning, great popularity, and he was 
not satisfied. No, not the highest and sweetest gifts 
this world can give will satisfy; I speak reverently, 
not even the love of woman. But there is one thing 
that ever brings renewed satisfaction, and that is if 
you have done a kindness to your fellowman. That 
is something that you never get tired of doing. That 
is something that pays you back with an infinite 
sweetness that nothing else is akin to. Be kind. Oh, 
boys and girls, do not forget, if you forget everything 
I have said, carry away from this audience today, 
from the experiences of your school, and from those 
things that those who love you and have striven for 
you have tried to teach you, carry away this one 
thought, “I will try to be kind.”
(Continued on page 10.)

---------------------------------------------------

8THE TARTAN
THE TARTAN
Published Weekly During the School Year by 
Students of Carnegie Technical School, Pitts­
burgh, Pennsylvania
James K. Lamoree, ’12...............Editor-in-Chief
Donald D. Mitchell.......................Athletic Editor
Helen Marie Baglin, ’11 M.M.C.S...Asso. Editor
H. J. McCorkle, ’11..............Business Manager
Horace P. Smith, ’13................Associate Editor
John H. Clements, ’13..............Assistant Editor
Subscription Rates
Yearly ....................................................................$2.00
Single Copy...................................................10 Cents
Student Rates
Yearly ....................................................................$1.00
Single Copy.....................................................5 Cents
For Advertising Rates, address the Business Manager, care 
Carnegie Technical Schools
THE POWER OF THE ROOTER.
Carnegie Tech’s foot-ball team for 1909 was the 
best in the history of the Schools. This remark­
able showing was due, in a large degree, to the 
pluck, endurance and sticking qualities of the men 
who made up Tech’s aggregation of pigskin chasers. 
But that wasn’t the whole secret. Another factor 
as important as any other thing in foot-ball, en­
tered into the reckoning, and upon it hinged the 
life and success of the team. What made our boys 
go through more than half the season without tak­
ing out one minute of time on account of inability 
to keep on playing? What made our lads hammer 
away at opponents outweighing them twenty pounds 
to the man, and by dogged perseverance snatch 
victory from the very jaws of defeat? What made 
the team fight and fight and fight long after a game 
seemed irretrievably lost? Pluck? Yes. Nerve? 
Yes. But more than anything else the fact that 
ithey were backed by a student body that did not, 
could not know defeat. That was what counted. 
It takes loyalty and spirit to cheer a losing team, 
but there is nothing under the wide heavens which 
will pull a broken team together, which will put 
life into tired bodies and courage into sinking 
hearts than good, clean, unselfish rooting. Then 
why not have it? We have numbers, we rooters; 
we have good strong throats and lungs; and we 
have the Carnegie Tech spirit to back us. Last 
year our rooters won a reputation for being the 
most loyal and consistent boosters in this section 
of the country. Why can’t we make a reputation 
this year which will be national? We can if we 
try. Is it worth the effort?
CLASS FEELING.
When a new class enters Carnegie and another 
class rises to the dignity of Sophomore estate, it 
is fitting and proper that something happen. It 
did. With a princely good humor did the Plebe 
class walk the chalk-mark laid out for it by the 
almighty ones. With true nobility and fairness to 
school traditions did the Sophs stand by to see 
that the calcium line was closely adhered to. All 
of which was as it should be. On Friday last the
• two rival classes met on the honorable field of 
combat and settled their differences as honorable 
men should. By the turn of a pig’s hair the Sophs 
won the hard-fought struggle. All of which was 
also right and just.
But all of that is now over. Scores have been 
settled and honor has been sustained. Let the 
Plebes accept their defeat in good part. Let the 
Sophomores extend the open palm to their newly- 
found brothers. Let us all unite in a general feel­
ing of good-fellowship and friendship. And above 
all, let us stand, not for any class, not for any or­
ganization, but for Carnegie Tech, to-day, to-morrow 
and always!
JUNIOR CLASS MEETING.
The Junior Class of the School of Applied Sci­
ence held its first meeting of the year Wednesday, 
September 21. Officers for the present term were 
elected:
President—Knapp.
Vice President—Koerbel.
Treasurer—Holiday.
Seeretary—Lamoree.
Athletic Representative—Blanchard.
Historian—Porterfield.
Tartan Representative—Cogswell.
Auditing Committee—Manker, Cogswell and
R. F. Phillips.
The Junior Prom and Thistle were commented 
upon, and it was the voice of the class that no 
stone be left unturned to keep up the excellent rep­
utation which has been made by former Junior 
classes in Carnegie. After transacting other rela­
tively unimportant business the meeting was ad­
journed.
Immediately following the election, President 
Knapp was crowned with the insignia of office, the 
Convict’s Cap, according to the custom of the Class 
of 1912. He then took charge of the meeting.
CARNEGIE’S LOSS.
It is with deep regret that we have learned of the 
decision of our former Editor-in-Chief, Theron Was­
son; not to return to Tech. Mr. Wasson was a mem­
ber of the class of 1911 and is considerably gifted 
in a literary way. He had charge of the Tartan 
during the last month of school last spring and show­
ed conclusive evidence of his ability to make the 
Tartan a better paper than ever. “Teo’s” many 
friends will miss his cheery countenance and unfail­
ing good-humor.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN9
SIGMA RHO CORN ROAST.
Cozy Corner Grover, near Ben Avon, was the 
scene of much merriment last Thursday evening, 
September 22d, when Sigma Rho fraternity and 
friends indulged in the pleasure of a camp-fire sup­
per and corn-roast. The party, numbering fifteen 
couples, assembled at the home of Mr. and Mrs. 
Schmucker, of Ben Avon, at 6.00 P. M. The walk 
to the grove, a distance of a mile or so, occupied 
the next hour and dusk was just falling as the noisy 
throng gathered around the monster bon-fire which 
had been prepared. During the course of the even­
ing small souvenirs were distributed. Everyone 
was temperate in the matter of marshmallows and 
cider except Gearhart, who acted very suspiciously. 
About 11.00 P. M. the party wended its way back 
to Ben Avon under the silvery rays of a big, round 
moon, taking the late train back to Pittsburg.
INCIDENTS. 
By Wee MacGreegor.
One of the latest victims of the motor-cycle 
craze is ‘’Governor” Stone, Junior Electrical. Some­
times he rides his machine, sometimes he peram­
bulates because the machine keeps going.The latter 
must have been the case one afternoon last week. 
A crowd of fellows were standing on the steps in 
front of the Science Building discussing foot-ball 
prospects when they were startled by the chug- 
chug of a motor-cycle coming down the board-walk, 
btone was riding at express train rate. “Hey, 
Guv,” shouted one of the fellows as the wild rider 
made a quick turn, “going to classes to-day?” 
“Gosh,” returned Stone hopelessly, as the machine 
gyrated from side to side of the walk, “I can’t get 
this blamed engine stopped.” In another minute 
a pair of flying coat-tails disappeared around the 
corner of the Industries Building.
Even the village constable could have told that 
the fellow was a Plebe. A man weighing at least 
two hundred, he wore his trousers short, his hair 
long and topped off a vacuus open-face countenance 
with a small felt hat. Shambling up to one of the 
Juniors, he haltingly inquired for the office of 
“Professor” Leete. Looking at the big one for a 
moment, the Junior gravely showed him to the 
study-room on the first floor and told him that the 
Dean would be in presently. It was fifteen mim 
utes before the Freshman got the green out of his 
eyes enough to see that he was in wrong.
AFTERWARDS.
“Bumley is fighting mad at Jonos because Jones’ 
wife eloped and got married.”
“What has Bumley to do with it?”
“He eloped with her.”
!°lcjiSM3J5MSiSi3MSJSEM3JSJSM3M3J5!J5J5JSMSJSISJelI3M3M3)
I PERTINENT AND IMPERTINENT |
jcii3M3M3ciMSM3j3M3JSM3M3M3M3J3M3JSJ3M3MSMSJSJt!iJ
Rah for the Sophs!
Brain was too much for brawn that time.
Traver made a hit with the ladies by playing foot­
ball with his head.
McCorkle tried to stop a fight over one of the sacks 
of flour. He looked like a Dutch baker when he got 
through.
The majority of the Plebes have gotten their caps. 
Hey, you stragglers get into the band-wagon and 
BOOST.
Talk about inspiration. One glance into the stands 
last Friday made many a Soph resolve to do or bust.
Mr. Pig must have thought that the price per 
pound of his variety of meat had been raised again,, 
judging by the awful scramble that was made for 
him.
Never mind, Plebes, you surely can wrestle some, 
anyways.
The Tech band is some music-box. Its repertoire 
of soul-stirring marches and thrilling patriotic selec­
tions would pull on the heart-strings of a brass 
armadillo or make an Egyptian mummy sit up and 
applaud.
Since the night when he attempted to break into 
the list of dime novel detectives, it has been sug­
gested that he change his vest. Ask Reyburn.
Miller endeavored to introduce his silver-tongued 
eloquence into the tug-of-war with dire results to 
himself, “Let me explain.”
BROKE.
“I love you dearly, Gwendolyn,”
He cried in accents wild;
And as he held out buth his arms 
The lady turned and smiled.
“I love you dearly, Gwendolyn,”
The lady thought it funny;
But he was dead in earnest for 
Theatres, flowers and sweets galore 
Had used up all his money.
—Scraggs, ’14.

---------------------------------------------------

10THE TARTAN
(Continued from page 7.)
Many years ago, I stood on Pittsburgh. It was 
three weeks or so before the Homestead strike. And 
I preached here for a fortnight, and I had all sorts 
and conditions of people come to see me, and I heard 
some funny things; saw same rather funny things, 
too. And I remember a working man from the steel 
works came to me one night shortly before I left 
Pittsburgh, and he said, “I want a little better light.” 
And I said, “Is there nobody you know in the shop 
can help you?” He scratched his head, he said he 
wasn’t sure. I said, “Is there no man you can think 
of in that shop that will help you?” At last he said, 
“Yes, there is one man.” I said, “How do you know?” 
“Well,” he said, “When I came in a stranger to the 
shop, he looked kindly at me.” “Anything else?” 
“Well,” he said, “One day he lent .me a tool.” “Well,” 
I said, “You cotton to that man.”
There it is, you see. Don’t start out with life, 
saying, “I am going to do something great.” Very 
few of you can ever do anything very great. We 
are not made that way. But everyone of us can do 
something very kind. We are made that way[ And 
the old Book again is true, “Give and it shall be 
given unto you; good measure, pressed down, and 
shaken together, and running over, shall God show 
men.” The old Book says, “Give into your bosom.”
And here I think of the years and years ago, when 
Arthur Hamerschlag and I put our brains together, 
and sometimes they were dull brains—see us going 
on in that twenty-four-foot tenement house too, and 
I look around and I see this great thing, and I say, 
“Give and it shall be given to you, good measure, 
pressed down, shaken together and running over.” 
So they have asked me to come and speak to you 
today. Enough to stir any man’s heart to see you 
boys and girls, going out to face the world, and every 
one better fitted than I was to make good.
Then I have one last thing to say before I close. I 
spoke of the struggle. But as I speak of the struggle 
for yourself, as I speak of the struggle against your­
self, as I speak of the struggle for those less fortunate 
than yourselves, as I speak of the struggle for your 
dear land, I think of one other struggle—and heaven 
forbid that I should ever forget it. I think of the 
struggle of others, I think of the struggle of those 
thousands by whose painful and forgotten effort we 
are what we are today. Never forget it. When you 
are apt to be discouraged, when you are apt to be 
cast down, when you are apt to give up, think of 
what those fought for and wrought for long ago, 
whose struggles made you what you are. We think 
about ourselves. But think of the struggles of those 
who gave us the chance, think of the struggles of our 
own fathers and mothers, dead and gone, some of 
them, now. The dear ones! Isn’t youth pitiless
sometimes? It is. There is nothing so pitiless,
sometimes, as youth. And when we get older, oh, 
we wish so much we had had more pity and more 
discerning in the days of our youth. Boys and girls, 
in the days of your youth, remember to be thought­
ful and kind to those that made the struggle by 
which you have won to where you aj'Q today.
There was General Massey, a poet, who said long 
ago:
“We climb like Corals, grave by grave,
That have a pathway sunward.”
You can catch the symbol. He thinks of the 
coral island in the southern sea, where the palms 
wave, the orchids bloom, the brilliant birds flash, and 
he thinks of its foundations, laid fathoms deep in 
the sunless sea, years and years before, by insects 
who, in laying its foundation, built their own success­
ful graves; up, up, up, up, through fathoms of sun­
less sea, till at last they reach the daylight, and Na­
ture, coming to their aid, makes the fair island where 
once there was only the coral reef.
And why did Gerald Massey write that? I will 
tell you this, the story. In 1836, in the living memory 
of man, Gerald Massey, a boy nine years old, earned 
a wage in a silk mill in England of eighteen cents a 
week to begin, with a maximum rise of thirty-one 
cents a week. He worked from five till half-past 
six in the evening, for eighteen cents a week to begin 
with, and thirty-one cents if he was good. And so 
stood one day, in the slush and the mud and the
storm of a cold spring, and saw with joy, as many
other desolate children did, the silk mill burn up
which set them free. That was in the memory of
men living today. Think of where the struggle has 
won to!
A better day, thank God! But don’t we want a 
better still. Shall we not bring in a better still? If 
the lines have fallen for us in pleasant places, shall 
we take high credit to ourselves? Shall we not 
struggle with every bit of strength and manhood God 
has given us to bring in a better day still? All I 
need do is to look into your faces today to see that 
you mean to, and so far as you can do so it shall 
be done.
And so I close, and I thank you for so long listen­
ing. And I would like to say in closing, Mr. Andrew 
Carnegie, I congratulate you with all my heart on 
having had so important a part in a work that will 
tend to the upbuilding of our race and the good of our 
dear country. I congratulate you, young men and 
women, on going forth to the fine stimulus of battle, 
better equipped than your forbears have been. I 
congratulate you, professors and workers here, on 
the joy you have got in teaching these young men. 
There is no more blessed joy in the world. And, 
Arthur Hamerschlag, I am glad we met as friends 
long ago; and if I had any hand at all, I am very 
grateful from the bottom of my heart, in the long 
years behind us, friendship and good fortune drew us 
together and we learned to see a few of the great 
simple things that, once seen, help a man’s belief 
that Life’s worth living, in the scheme of things, if 
the struggle is good.
And so I wish, Good Luck! in the name of the 
world; and I ask you to remember, as our true poet, 
our American Lowell wrote—do not forget it:

---------------------------------------------------

EAR EN4EN<11
New occasions teach new duties; time makes ancient 
good uncouth;
They must upward still and onward, who would keep 
abreast of Truth;
Lo! before us gleam her campfires! we ourselves 
must pilgrims be,
Launch our Mayflower, and steer boldly through the 
desperate winter sea;
Nor attempt the Future’s portal with the past’s blood- 
rusted key.
Good luck!
A LETTER.
[The following letter was received by us last 
week. It comes from former coach E. N. Snitjer, 
and is a fine, manly expression of his interest in 
Carnegie Tech and her athletes.—Ed.]
San Jose, California, 
Sept. 15th, 1910.
To the Editor of the Tartan:
I should like to use the columns of your paper 
to wish Tech a prosperous start on what I sincerely 
hope will be the brightest and most successful foot 
ball season of her history.
To the men in the squad, I would say that no 
matter what the outlook, good, hard, conscientious 
work, both in practice and in the games, will bring 
you results far beyond your most expected hopes. 
Tech men have of necessity the foundation of char­
acter on which to build any kind of a team requir­
ing back-bone. Eack-bone in the class room and 
during the periods of study, in any institution as 
thorough as Tech, is more essential than that on 
the field—without the. former you will have no op­
portunity to show the latter. Don’t think that be­
cause you are a ’Varsity man that you will be fav­
ored by your instructors—many a good player has 
learned otherwise just at a time when Tech needed 
his services the most.
To the men in the stands I can only emphasize 
that never will an eye witness forget the beautiful 
sight of a heart-broken student body carrying their 
defeated team off the field on their shoulders. It 
is not always policy to do this, but you can do 
nothing which will so cheer and encourage those 
selected few, trying so hard to bring victory home 
to Tech, as to give them the cheery shouts of en­
couragement when the game looks the blackest. 
Stand by your team when the battle is going 
against it—it doesn’t need you when it is winning— 
the world looks rosy then.
To the student body as a whole, I would remind
that the foot-ball team is simply a part of your­
selves, representing you and responsible to you. 
Any breaking of training is contempt for your wel­
fare, and the placing of an individual’s pleasure 
ahead of the student body’s best interests. Failure 
in the class room through neglect, is again one 
man’s lazy comfort against the best interests of 
the student body, which too often suffers in silence. 
If a player honestly strives to make good in his 
scholarship, but fails to grasp his subject, then for 
your own interest give him all the aid in your 
power. Insist that every man on the squad treat 
the student body squarely, especially where class 
room work is involved. Be severe with those de­
serving severity, but lend a helping hand to those 
honestly striving.
To every man connected with Tech, let us, one 
and all, pull for the best of everything—as I am 
pulling, thousands of miles away.
Your former Coach,
E. N. Snitjer.
FOOT-BALL.
Things are progressing very nicely in Tech’s 
training camp and prospects for a good team are 
brighter than ever. Forty-three men have reported 
so far. Although there is a dearth of last year’s 
men, the new men are showing up in fine shape. 
Quite a number of the new men are Plebes, who 
bring with them excellent reputations for prep 
school foot-ball. The men have been put through 
a thorough drill in rudimentary foot-ball under the 
new rules, as well as signal practice and a little 
light scrimmage. Coaches Dowling and McCulloch 
express extreme satisfaction in the way the men 
have rounded into form and feel no concern re- 
garding our ability to win the opening game with 
Waynesburg next Saturday. The boys are working 
hard to master the new game and is certainly up 
to every Carnegie man to come out on October 1, 
and cheer them to victory.
*
**
Ì
*
FOOTBALL PRACTICE EVERY DAY AT 3.45 P. M.
Every man report regularly. The success of the team depends upon it.
FOOT-BALL RULES.
An interesting comparison of the old and the new 
rules, which shows in a nutshell just what this 
year’s teams are up against:
1909.
1. Mass play was unrestricted and the back- 
. bone of the attack of all the leading teams.
2. No restriction as to the point from which the 
pass should be made. The ball had to pass the line

---------------------------------------------------

12THE TARTAN
P. LUDEBUEHL & SON
PENN AND FRANKSTOWN AVENUES EAST END
SHOES
SEE THE NEW TOE KIDDO 
Made up in Heavy Fall and Winter Tan Button and Blucher 
SEE OUR FOUR SHOW WINDOWS FOR THE FALL STYLES
of scrimmage at least five yards from the point at 
which it was put in play, but could be caught at 
any point, no matter how far in advance. There 
was no restriction as to interference with the man 
catching the ball, and the most common method 
was body checking, which resulted in many serious 
injuries. The penalty was one down and a loss of 
15 yards on first and second downs, and loss of the 
ball on the third.
3. No restriction as to the position of the kicker. 
His teammates were onside as soon as the ball hit 
the ground beyond the line of scrimmage.
4. No restriction as to tackling, and many were 
hurt by the headon flying tackle.
5. The team in possession of the ball must have 
at least six men on the line of scrimmage.
6. A game consisted of two halves of 35 minutes 
each.
7. The man receiving the ball from the snap- 
back was required to cross the line of scrimmage 
at least five yards from the point where the ball 
was put in play.
8. A man who had once left the game was never 
permitted to return.
1910.
1. Mass play made impossible by the rule pro­
viding that there shall be no pushing or pulling of 
the man with the ball.
2. The forward pass must be made at a point at
least five yards behind the line of scrimmage. It
may cross the line at any point, but cann«t be le­
gally caught at a point more than 20 yards in ad­
vance of that line. The players on the defense 
may not interfere with the man about to catch the 
ball in any way except in a bona fide attempt to 
catch the ball. The penalty for an incompleted 
pass is one down, the ball being brought back to
the point at which the pass was made.
3. The kicker must be at least five yards behind 
the line of scrimmage. His teammates are not 
onside till the ball has hit the ground at least 20 
yards in advance of the point at which it was put in 
play.
4. A tackier must have at least one foot on the 
ground when he strikes his opponent. This rules 
out the flying tackle.
5. The team in possession o£ the ball must have
at least seven men on the line of scrimmage.
6. A game consists of four periods of 15 minutes 
each. Between the second and third periods there 
shall be an intermission of 15 minutes, and be­
tween the first and second and the third and fourth 
an intermission of three minutes.
7. The man receiving the ball from the snap- 
back may advance it at any point.
8. A player taken from the game for any cause 
save disqualification may return once in any suc­
ceeding period.—Pittsburg Gazette Times.
SATURDAY’S RESULTS.
Williams, 0; Rensselaer Polytechnical Institute, 0. 
Carlisle Indians, 6; Villa Nova, 0.
Massachusetts Agricultural College, 0; Rhode 
Island State, 0.
Ursinus, 8; Pennsylvania, 5.
St. Louis University, 25; Shortleff, 0.
Minnesota, 34; Lawrence, 0.
Ohio State University, 14; Otterbein, 5.
Western Reserve, 7; Buchtel, 0.
Des Moines College, 5; East Des Moines High, 0. 
Wilmington, 8; Wittenberg, 0.
Gettysburg, 11; Steelton, 0.
Lafayette, 31; Bloomsburg, 0.
Western Maryland, 3; Dickinson, 0.
Mercersburg, 27; Carlisle scrub, 0
Kentucky State University, 10; Ohio University,
0.
Lafayette College is represented by a semi-weekly 
paper, The Lafayette, for the first time in the his­
tory of the school.
The Sophomores won the annual cane-rush at 
Lafayette.
Yale golfers won team honors and the individual 
intercollegiate championship in the recent match 
held at Manchester, Mass.
Foot-ball men claim that the new rule cutting up 
the game into four periods is a detriment to good 
playing, saying that it slows up the game without 
saving the players from exhaustion.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN13
Jas. «/* Flannery, President. J. J. Booth, Vice-President. J. C. Pew, 2d Vice-Pres, and Sec’y
C. B. Aylesworth, Treasurer.
RESOURCES OVER ONE AND ONE HALF MILLION DOLLARS. DEPOSITS OVER ONE MIL­
LION DOLLARS. CAPITAL AND SURPLUS OVER THREE HUNDRED AND SIXTY THOUS­
AND DOLLARS. A BANK THAT IS STRONG IN ASSETS, IN MEN, IN COURTESY.
OAKLAND SAVINGS AND TRUST COMPANY
IROQUOIS BLOCK.
SCHOOL SONGS.
The two songs published below should be known 
by every student in Tech. If you are not wise to 
them yet, sit down right now and learn them.
Alma Mater.
Let all our voices now be raised 
In song to fill the air;
And all our hearts with music praise,
Our Alma Mater fair.
Chorus:
Carnegie Tech, we honor thee,
And fondly sing thy praise;
We pledge our lives, in memory,
Thy sons on high to raise.
Let all the echoes ring out clear,
In joyful strains so true
And greet the Tartan with a cheer,
Red, Yellow, Green and Blue.
Then keep our hopes ascending high,
Far reaching to the sky,
And make us thrill with pride in thee, 
Wherever we may be.
Amicl.
Our strong band can ne’er be broken,
Formed in C. T. S.
For surpassing wealth unspoken,
Ever more shall bless.
Chorus:
“Amici, usque, ad eras,”
Deep-graven on each heart,
Shall be found unwav’ring true 
When we from life shall part.
College life at best is passing;
Here’s to all success!
Then let us pledge in word and deed 
Our love for C. T. S.
ALUMNI NOTES.
Frank E. Henry, ’09, Mechanical, is leaving soon 
for Gary, Ind., where he will continue his work for 
the American Sheet and Tin Plate Company.
Bill Buhl, former Tech basketball star, leaves for 
Texas soon. It is rumored that he will join the 
benedicts before starting on his journey. Congratu-
PRODUCTION OF NICOTINE.
In a paper presented to the Academie des Sci­
ences, M. Th. Schloesing gives an account of s se­
ries of experiments which he made in order to 
produce the greatest amount of. nicotine from to­
bacco. The consumption of nicotine for de­
stroying the parasites of plants and animals has 
greatly increased during the last few years, and the 
production of this alkaloid has thus become quite 
insufficient. At present this output is limited be­
cause commercial nicotine is only a by-product of 
the tobacco industry. In order to obtain nicotine 
under better conditions, if possible, the author ex­
amined the question so as to find out whether to­
bacco could be cultivated at a profit with a special 
view of obtaining the alkaloid from it. The French 
government, which controls all tobacco cultivation 
and manufacture, lent him its aid. The ground was 
planted in two different regions of France, in the 
proportions varying from 20,000 to 80,000 plants per 
acre. The . general results showed that when we 
allow all the leaves upon the plant, without cutting, 
the amount of nicotine per acre is much lessened, 
so that we must find what is the best number of 
leaves to remain on the plant. For the tobacco of 
one region, this is from 6 to 12 leaves, using nitrate 
fertilizer at the rate of 1,200 pounds per acre. The 
best seems to be six leaves with more fertilizer, 
say 3,200 pounds. Other conditions may come in, 
such as the compactness of the planting, climate, 
and kind of fertilizer. Thick planting has less in­
fluence than the number of leaves on each plant in 
the amount of nicotine produced per acre. An ex­
cessive amount of fertilizer such as nitrate of soda 
is not to be recommended, as it does not appear to 
increase the weight. In the most favorable cases 
he found 340 pounds of nicotine per acre with 40,000 
plants with six leaves in one region, and in another 
this was 700 pounds per acre using 20,000 plants 
of six leaves. It thus appears that the experimental 
conditions do not differ enough from what usually 
prevails for us to hope for much increase in nico­
tine production by any improvements in tobacco 
cultivation. With the present price of tobacco and 
nicotine, it would be impossible to cultivate tobáceo, 
in France at least, with this special end in view.— 
Scientific American.

---------------------------------------------------

14THE TARTAN
* I* I4- _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 4******4****?*+** 
i Í 
****4*A *I 
ï 
i *+*
**
* *I I* 4** A 4*Vï>*4'V!,\4,VI,Vï*\4,Vï,V!,*4,\4*VI*N4*VI'V!*\4,VÎ,Vï,N4*% N4*\4,\4,N4*\4*N4,S4,N4*N4*N4*N4*\4*\,î,N4*\4,S4*\4*\,l
WHERE THE BUNCH GOES
TECH BARBER SHOP
THIS TONSORIAL PARLOR HAS BECOME THE MECCA FOR TECH 
STUDENTS WHO WANT PARTICULAR WORK—GOOD, UP-TO-DATE SERV­
ICE—STRICTLY SANITARY SHOP—COMPETENT WORKMEN WHO 
KNOW HOW TO GIVE THE FINISHING TOUCHES TO THE STUDENT’S 
TOILET.
LATEST STYLE HAIR-CUTS FOR THE STUDENT WHO WANTS TO 
BE RIGHT UP-TO-TH E-MI NTUE.
ONE OF OUR FAMOUS FACE MASSAGES WILL TAKE AWAY THAT 
AFTER-EXAM HEADACHE. TRY IT.
BEGIN THE SCHOOL YEAR RIGHT BY GOING “WHERE THE 
BUNCH GOES”—TO
THE TECH BARBER SHOP
H. F. VAN CUREN, PROP.COR. CRAIG & FORBES
*4»*4**4-?4-*4-S4**4**4**4*
i
Í
i*4*
Í
i
Í*4*/V
1
M. M. C. S.
The M. M. C. S. was officially opened on Tuesday, 
September 20th, in the assembly room of the school. 
The two upper classes stood in their places singing 
the Woman’s Song, while the Faculty and the Plebe 
Class marched in.
The Director and Dean West stood behind a bower 
of green and yellow. Miss West made a welcoming 
speech to the entering class which was full of splen­
did advice and cordial good-will. She then turned 
to the Director and asked him to speak to the girls. 
Mr. Hamerschlag made one of his vigorous speeches 
that touch the heart and stimulate the brain. After 
his words of welcome, he asked to be allowed to in­
troduce the faculty to the entering class. As there 
were many new members, this was a very charming 
way to make them all known to the school. At the
conclusion of the introductions, the school sang 
America, the faculty and upper classes were dis­
missed and school had begun.
An invitation was extended by the School of Ap­
plied Science to the M. M. C. S. and faculty to at­
tend the exercises of field day between the Sopho­
mores and Freshmen. This invitation was accepted 
with the greatest of joy by the girls and the faculty. 
The school attended in a body and enjoyed the really 
civilized proceedings immensely. The girls’ school 
has no such day, but felt that they also served who 
only sat and applauded.
The girls who wish to enter the tennis tournament 
should see the committee immediately as the entries 
will soon close. Let everyone enter who can play: 
Seniors, Juniors, Plebes. Show your school spirit!
Forbes and Atwood Sts.Oakland
>k4*%*i*^4-\4*\4«N4*\4*\4*\4*\4«N4*\4*\4*\4*N4'\4*\4«\4' \4*S4-\4*\4«\4*S4*\4*\4*\4-\4*\4*\4*\4*\4*V4«Vi*\4'\4*
4*
^n ?“Bestr" Store
White Overalls for Tech Students, $1.00 Suit
Best Goods MadeAll Sizes
X4,\4,\4,%4,N4,N4,%4,N4,%4*%4,%4,\4,\4,\4,\4,%,t,\4,\4,%4,%4,%4,%4,%4,N4,%4,\4,%4,%4,%4,%4,%4,%4,%4,%4,\4,%4»%4*%

---------------------------------------------------

EAR EN4EN<K15
**
4*4*
4.4.
// **4*4* 'Sss4*4* 4V?? 3*4-4*// 5*4*4* ¿<f
4*4*// **
?? 4**frDo you want, what you w^ant when you 5*
55 want it? it** 'I
*? Yesr Well, here it is! 55
**S THE TARTAN f4*4» v ^// 5*55 *i*5 Has a circulation of 2200 readers among &£
4*4* ^55 young men and women who are always $g
4*4* 2$aa , 4*4»55 spending money. It will pay you to look
4' 4*** us up. .-. CARNEGIE TECH is the largest *|
4.4. ^^ t 4*^55 Technical School in the United States. ${.ii 'I** Cheap advertising is the most expensive.
55 Judicious advertising always brings results. $$
4>4> ** 4 A
55 Let us have a talk with you and show you H
4*4*55 of what profit an ad in THE TARTAN it4.4.
55 will be, ££
55 BUSINESS MANAGER iist ---------------------- _— -----------------------------------—
** 2**!•+5J 6117 Kirkwood Street **
** 4*4*J5 East End, Pittsburgh |$
** **
+* ii** 5*4.4. <£*S 5t4*4* </** St
4*4*
** a" p
%4.\4.\4.\4^4-N4*\4*\4*\4'\4A4*\4-\4-\4*\4*\4*\4«V&V4-\4*\4«\4*\4>\4*\4'S4A4'\4*\4A4-\4'\4*\4'\fVI*\f£2g,%5%4.%4.\4>\4»\4,%4,N4,%4,\4,N4,N4,%4,\4,N4,\4,\4,\4,<V4,\4'^4'\4,N4,\4,\4,N4,\4,\4,\4,\4,\4,N4,\4,\4,\4,\4,^i

---------------------------------------------------

16THE TARTAN
o' -t*?Yvv
%4-\4*\4'\4*\4*\4*\4*Vi*VI'\4'\4*\4-\4'\4-\4-\4'\4*\4*\4'*!-V4*\4*\4’\4*\4*\4*\4*\4*\4'\4'\4*\4*\4-\4*\4-\4>\4*\4 
» A
I HEIMEETSii “ Where all the Tech Boys go ”
iZ Freshmen’s Tech Caps Sold Here Overalls and Jackets 50c a garment
ozE=E3:tT GEGOO.KST
frV4*\4*\4A4*N4*Vi*H4>\4*\4‘^4‘\.4'V4*\4'V!*Vi*V:*\4*\
ft%'ova\o%o%o%oxoxoxoxosoxo%o%o%^xo%oxD
MELLON NATIONAL BANK
514 SMITHFIELD STREET 
409 MFTH AVENUE
SOLICITS THE ACCOUNTS OF 
STUDENTS
CAPITAL - $4,000,000
SURPLUS ... - $3,200,000
%a*o%a\axo*oxo\a*a*o*a.%oxoxa%ax0xoxo 
******** ****************************
4* * f ? I4* *
NWNW % \ wwWWXSWWWWNWWXSN^% OAKLAND BUTTER MARKET >
Dealers in SBUTTER, EGGS. POULTRY, CHEESE, TEA. COFFEE J AND CANNED GOODS J
3714 FORBES STREET ABell Phone 710 Sehenley ^
v K
S Quality the Best Prices Moderate •{•
A Bellfield Restaurant and Lunch Room *
5 Corner Craig and Forbes Streets A
* PITTSBURGH, PA. A
4* SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS J
VOLUOMUOEUOLUOSPOMUOSLTOSPBRSUOSUOSUOSUOSPOSUOSUO2UO8V,1
%+\4*%4*\*\+%*%+\+\+\4^*\4'\*\+\+\4*\4'\4'
• •
Bellefield Presbyterian Church
CAMPBELL COYLE, Minister
9.45 A. M.—Brotherhood Bible Study. 
11:00 A.M.—Morning Service.
7:00 P.M.—Y. P. S. C. E.
8:00 P. M.—Evening Service.
All Tech Faculty and Student Body Welcome ^
4-
4**4**4'*4*?4**4**4**4*A4-*+A4*A
B. & B.
Men’s Suits, $15.00 to $45.00.
The lines $20.00 to $35.00 ;ire particularly 
impressive.
$25.00 Suits from Brokaw find Stein Bloch 
that will make you wonder how we can do 
it, when you compare with what you’re ac­
customed to at Twenty-five Dollars.
BOGGSBUHL
*
4-A
4*A4-A4**4*A4«A4-A4*A*A$4*4,X4,\4,%4,N*N4,\4,X4,N4'\4,\iS4,\4,S4,N4,%4,\4,X4,\
\4*\4*\4-\4*\4*S4*\4-\4-\4*\4*\4-\4*\4,\4*%4*V&\i’N^\^Nv\4‘\4'\4'\’
The World’s Best Hatters Make “ *
Soft Hats and Caps for Comfort, Sport or 
Travel. Derbies, Silk and Opera Hats for 
Dress. The best only from the World’s Best 
Hatters.
OTTO OETTING 
Seventh & Smithfield. Fifth & Wylie.
4-V4-\4-\4*>4*\4*\4'V!*\4*\4*\4'\4*\4*\4'\4*\4-\4'\4*VI‘N4-Vi-\4-\4*V!*\
