Vol. X. No. 25 Carnegie Institute <of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania March 29, 1916
DESIGN IFEATUR]S ISSUE
SCHOOL OF APPLIED DESIGN
MR. BOSSANGE, REVIEWS HISTORY 
Of SCHOOL OE APPLIED DESIGN
(ARM DAT, ANNUAL EVENT
Vool.Car an egigIsltCar an ua<rfgsT. 
cCsthfly,
The original Carnegie Institute 
building on Forbes street was com­
pleted and first dedicated on Novem­
ber 5th, 1895, and was enlarged and 
re-dedicated on April 11th, 12th and 
13th, 1907. Since the completion of 
the first building in 1895, a Founder’s 
Day has been annually observed in 
April by the trustees of the Carnegie 
Institute, formal exercises being held 
in the Music Hall, to which prominent 
persons in the various civic, indus­
trial, educational, religious and social 
fields have been invited. Because the 
attendance has always filled the hall 
to capacity, it was not possible for 
the student body, with its ever in­
creasing size, to participate.
The constantly growing wish 
among the Faculty and students of 
the Institute of Technology to recog­
nize in some way their gratefulness 
to the Founder for the gifts he had 
made and the opportunities he had 
furnished led to the initial celebra­
tion on November 25th, 1913, of the 
first “Carnegie Day,’’ the date chosen 
representing the Founder’s birthday. 
Mr. Carnegie was 78 years of age in 
the year of the first “Carnegie Day.” 
Three notable events in connection 
with the first exercises were the ad­
dress on Andrew Carnegie by Mr. 
Charles M. Schwab, the conferring of 
the first honorary degree, a doctorate 
in engineering, upon Mr. William Mc- 
Conway, and the first public perform- 
eartCr<gf on Plbg 10
In May 1904, the Committee on 
Technical Schools of the Carnegie 
Institute issued a programme of a 
competition for the selection of an 
architect for the new buildings. Five 
well known firms were asked to com­
pete. The competition, however, 
was open to all other architects of 
“experience and capacity” and 41 out­
side of those originally invited sent 
in drawings. Palmer and Hornbos- 
tel were not among those invited, 
nevertheless, the drawings submitted 
by them were considered so far su­
perior to all others that they were 
announced the winners of the compe- 
tion and appointed architects for the 
new buildings. The drawings show a 
complete scheme of what Mr. Carne­
gie’s generous gift was ultimately to 
produce. Thus the Patron of our 
School was from the very first inti­
mately connected with the develop­
ment of this great Institution and to 
his creative genius much of its great 
success is due. The first buildings 
erected were those now used by the 
Industries School. The first Depart­
ment of the School of Design, the 
Architectural Department, began its 
career in a portion of that build­
ing. The scheme shown in the com­
petition drawings has been very much 
developed and thoroughly re-studied, 
but in the main has followed the plan 
originally submitted. All new addi­
tions are made to conform to the gen­
eral plan, so that the unity of the 
scheme vCii always be preserved.
The corner stone of the present 
School of Applied Design was laid 
in 1912. In September of that year 
the central portion was completed 
and occupied. Before a separate 
building was provided for the School 
a Department of Decoration was ad­
ded in 1908, Professor Sparks being 
appointed in charge. It was not un­
til February, 1912, that that the De­
partment of Music was organized. 
Mr. O’Brien was called then to or­
ganize and take charge of the de­
partment. In February, 1914, the 
Drama Department was organized 
and Mr. Sevens came from Chicago 
to assume the leadership of that 
branch.
It is hard to realist: that these two 
departments whose work is already 
doing the School so much credit have 
been established so short a time. The 
number of students in these depart­
ments, about 200, being as large as 
the entire School in 1911. Our 
growth has been rapid as shown by 
the following figures.
1905-06 .......................................... 68
1906-07 .......................................... 80
1907-08 ...........................................115
1908-09 ..........................................180
1909-10 ...........................................194
1910-11 ..........................................200
1911-12 ..........................................271
1912-13 ..........................................311
1913-14 ..........................................380
1914-15 ..........................................520
1915-16 ..........................................573
Continuedfon Page 2
THE ECOLE DES BEAUX ARTS
Matgf usgroh Sohaai Stsarbiy Fgmp
sgmsg.grtgf Cr ñg.Cbr,
The Ecoles dec Beaux Arts ol 
Paris was founded about 1450 by 
Charles VII, under the name of St. 
Lukes Academy as a school of paint­
ing. Later Louis XIV and his prime 
minister Colbert extended the scope 
of the school and called it the Na­
tional School of Fine Arts under the 
control of the Institute of France. 
Napoleon III changed the organiza­
tion and placed the school under the 
control of his Minister of Fine Arts. 
It is now under the charge of the 
Minister of Public Instruction.
Painting, Sculpture, Architecture 
and engraving are the subjects taught. 
The atelier system is the method 
used. The students using the school 
only for examinations, exhibitions 
and lectures.
One of the peculiar things about 
the atelier is the two types nouveau 
and ancient. The Nouvean remain­
ing so for two years or more 
before he becomes an ancien. The 
patron of an atelier (instructor) only 
corrects when he visits the atelier 
which is twice a week. Some patrons 
never touch a pencil. The anciens 
help the nouveau and vice versa.
Twice a year, April, May, October, 
and November, the entrance exami­
nations are held for those qualified 
to take them. Usually 400 or more 
try. The 45 Frenchmen of highest
Continued on Page 9

---------------------------------------------------

2ah? (Hartan
THE PAGEANT AND CORNER­
STONE LAYING.
Gay Revel on Site of Present Building 
Design Building Started April, 1912.
The cornerstone of the School oi 
Applied Design was laid April 25, 
19!2, under direction of Director 
Hamerschlag and Mr. Henry Horn- 
bor'tel, then acting Dean of the De­
sign School.
Immediately following the annual 
Founders Day ceremonies in Carnegie 
Music Hall a pageant led the proces­
sion to the site of the new building. 
It wag a gorgeous spectacle in which 
all the students participated. Egyp­
tian. Oriental, Greek, Roman, Medie­
val and Renaissance costumes of the 
17th and 18th centuries composed the 
vast group.
The cornerstone laying then follow­
ed, W. N. Frew, then president of the 
Carnegie Institue pronounced the 
stone formally in place. He said in 
part, “In accordance with the author­
ity conferred by the Carnegie Insti­
tute of Technology and on behalf of 
the founder, I hereby attest that this 
cornerstone has been truly laid and 
I direct that there shall be embedded 
in it a memorial that shall certify to 
future generations of the apprecia­
tion felt by the citizens of Pittsburgh 
for the priceless gifts of Andrew Car­
negie.”
The corner stone contains a copy 
of the Bible, Pittsburgh newspapers 
of that day, a set of drawings and 
specifications of the new building, and 
mhatabslmh. 0f historical interest. A 
contribution received from the stu­
dents representatives of each of the 
four schools was placed in the stone 
b'r Director HamerscMafc.
Dr. Wm. H. Fryym the Board of 
Tructees gave an announcement fil- 
lowrd bv “Hail Carnegie” by the Car^ 
neeie Choir and selection by the Car- 
rrgie Tech Band.
PRIZES OFFERED IN DESIGN 
SCHOOL.
Prizes Offer Great Incentive to 
Students.
The Society of Beaux Arts Archi­
tects offers the following prizes which 
are open to students of the depart­
ment of architecture.
The “Paris Prize’’ of $2,500, which 
provides for two and a half years for­
eign travel and study.
The “Warren Prizes” of $50 and 
$25.
The “Morris Leet Prizes” of $50 
and $25.
The “Pupin Prize” of $50 and $25.
The “Spiering Prize” of $50.
The “Stewardson Scholarship” of 
$100 is limited to students who have 
been resident in Pennsylvania for a 
period of one year or have pursued a 
course in an architectural school in 
the State for one scholastic year.
The “Roman Prize’’ of $3000 pro­
vides for three years of foreign travel 
and study at the American Academy 
in Rome. The department of archi­
tecture of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology has secured the recogni­
tion of the “Academy” and acts as 
Continued on Page 3
MR. B0SSANGE REVIEWS
Continued from Page 1 
Mr. Hornbostel was Dean of the 
School until 1908, when Mr. McGood- 
win was appointed Acting Dean, 
which office he held until 1912.
Mr. Hornbostle’s professional prac­
tice is growing daily and in the last 
years it has been very difficult for 
him to give us much of his time. This 
is most unfortunate for it has pre­
vented many of our students from en­
joying the influence of his inspiring 
and stimulating personality and of 
profiting by his criticisms and lec- 
¿rires. I doubt if our more recent stu­
dents appreciate to what extent he is 
the father and patron of this school. 
But for his creative imagination and 
convincing enthusiasm our School 
would not be what it is today and it 
gives me much pleasure to pay this 
tribute to him and to acknowledge his 
most generous contributions to the 
success of “Tech.”
Mr. C. Russell Hewlett, came to 
this School as an instructor in De­
coration in 1908, and in April, 1912, 
was appointed Dean, which position 
he filled until his death in November, 
1914. I had the privilege of being in 
the Department of Architecture at 
Columbia University with Mr. Hew­
lett and my memory of him enables 
me to understand and appreciate the 
very profound affection and respect 
which he awakened among the stu­
dents, faculty and the whole commun­
ity. His loss was a very serious blow 
to this institution. He was a man 
of very exceptional taste, great charm 
of manner and of unusual culture. 
He was admirably fitted to take 
charge of the School and by his fine 
influence raised its standards. The 
memorial service which was held in 
the halls of this School has left a 
profound impression on all those who 
came to pay Mr. Hewlett a last tri­
bute. We are fortunate in having 
photographs of the decorations de­
signed for that occasion, which in 
beauty, simplicity and dignity were 
admirably conceived. In memory 
of Mr. Hewlett, the Hewlett Me­
morial Fellowship has been found­
ed by his many friends in Pittsburgh 
and the little museum in our building 
which we hope to organize when the 
building operations are completed,
will contain many works of art select­
ed and given by Mr. Hewlett to this 
School.
It would require more space than 
I have to enumerate the many inter­
esting exhibitions, competitions, con­
certs, plays, lectures, masques and 
balls that have been held in this build­
ing. Many celebrities have visited 
our building and although very young 
we already have history and tradition. 
Mr. Carnegie has spoken twice in our 
Theatre. Mrs. Carnegie has also 
visited the School several times and 
is much interested in our work.
In one respect this Institution 
is unique. We have an advan­
tage over all other Schools which 
I feel we should constantly bear 
in mind. Under one roof we 
have all the arts closely asso­
ciated. The sympathic atmosphere 
which is produced by the fine arts is 
of the greatest value to our students. 
They will lose a rare opportunity in­
deed if, while taking their own cours­
es, they do not imbibe something of 
the spirit of the other arts and, be­
cause of their association with their 
fellow students, become more rounded 
artists and more cultured men and wo­
men. I hope the Departments will al­
ways be able to work together. I 
hope also, in the near future that 
some form of our student activity, 
cultural and artistic, can be organized 
that it will bring all our students to­
gether. This would give them an op­
portunity to exchange ideas, compare 
notes and broaden each others vision. 
The French Academy in Rome, to 
which the French Government sends 
each year a painter, an architect, a 
sculptor, a musician and an engraver 
for four years, has a life class attend­
ed by all the “pensionaires” which 
accomplishes this result. I had the 
great privilege of being their as a 
guest for two winters and it seemed 
to me that this “atelier du soir” as 
it was called (the class met at dusk 
each day) was one of the most valua­
ble ideas developed at the Academy. 
The discussions and conversations 
that I heard in that class were prob­
ably the most interesting conversa­
tions I have ever had the privilege to 
hear. It must be admitted that they 
usually failed to arrive at any con- 
Continued on Page 4
JBd ñdSIGM cALLS,
‘Plslma<rt Cr dvgsy Wly,” .lCf 
Mgv Yask esCtCo,
ua<s Blvg cggr GCvgr ta ñltg,
The fancy dress ball given by the 
students of the School of Applied 
Design have attracted attention 
everywhere. The first ball of this 
nature was given April 23, 1914, in 
the architectural draughting room 
the same night as the dedication of 
the new Design theater. The period 
was Roman. The room was decorat­
ed in streamers of many colors. All 
the tables were removed making an 
excellent floor for dancing and games. 
Mr. Hornbostel was responsible for 
the idea, having modelled it after the 
Artists ball of New York and Beaux 
Arts, Paris.
An Oriental ball was held Novem­
ber 5, 1914, in the Design foyer. Chi­
nese, Japanese, Turks, Indians, Per­
sians, Zulus, Arabians and Egyptians 
mingled together in the dimly lighted 
and gorgeous Oriental Hall. The 
walls were covered completely with 
red draperies trimmed in blue and 
gold; divans and lounges were every­
where, diffused blue and red lights 
were thrown through the lunes in 
the foyer giving a dim, mellow and 
mystic light. The ball in general fai 
surpassed the expectations of all.
A Baccahanalian Revel was held 
on the evening of May 13th, 1915. A 
masque written by J. A. Vielman 
of the Drama Department preceded 
the ball. It was held on the Design 
terrace. The masque depicts the 
story of a band of Greeks returning 
from the siege of Troy. Charming 
scenic effects were secured by use of 
colored lights, natural foliage and the 
setting on the terrace. The masque 
was followed by a Grecian Ball in 
the foyer. The walls were left un­
convened and the lighting gave a 
charming effect. The costumes, as 
usual, were gorgeous and of various 
colors.
The night of November 10th, 1915, 
brought forth the Medieval Ball and 
the Masque of Charlemagne. The 
foyer was changed into a throne 
room and banquet hall of the period. 
The throne was a wonderful cre­
ation with a balcony and throne 
amid many beautifully decorated 
columns and panels, H. B. 
Pearce, then president of the De­
sign School was designer and exe­
cutor of the decorations. Mr. and 
Mrs. Hornbostel acted as King and 
Queen in the masque loaned by T. 
H. Viehman. It held to the history 
of the return of the paladins of 
Charlemagne from their crusade 
through Spain and across the Medi­
terranean. After the masque, a ban­
quet of that period was spread in the 
foyer above. The ball proper than 
had full sway. The costuming of the 
Medieval Ball surpassed all previous 
efforts. There seemed to be a spirit­
ed rivalry between every one for the 
most striking and magnificent cos­
tume.
Such occasions serve as an outer 
tonic to the imagination without 
which no man can become a real 
Continued on Page 7

---------------------------------------------------

(Sty ©aríatt3
SVPBVMVFd cAMQUdJ,
dxoCtCrb dvgrCrb nas ñg.Cbr Urfgsp
oil..mgr,
For years past it has been the cus­
tom of each Sophomore class to hold 
its annual banquet at this season of 
the 'year. Each class has endeavored 
to hold a banquet wnich should in 
every nature be superior to that of its 
preceding class; and each class has 
succeeded.
Friday night, March 16, marks the 
date of the Design Soph, banquet, and 
is a date that will long remain fresh 
in the minds of the Sophs and Plebes.
The banquet was held at the Uni­
versity Club at 9:30 p. m. Professors 
Holmes, Taylor, O’Brien, Moorehead 
and Mr. Field gave short addresses. 
Mr. Hornbostel infused jovialty into 
the occasion and set the ball rolling 
for the evening’s revel. Eats? yes, 
there was an over abundance. Music? 
The air was full of it all evening, col­
lege songs, and all sorts of variations 
from hymns to symphonies filled the 
banquet hall. Every man in Design 
was there and an equal to that occa­
sion will be hard to find.
President and Toastmaster M. E. 
Green gave the following opening re­
marks :
“Fellow classmates, I am certain 
that we are all loathe to depart from 
around our sumptuous board, which 
proclaims our good fellowship, after 
our many good speeches and oui 
many tales of our experiences in the 
past few days, during which we have 
scored a most decisive victory over 
our very zealous Plebes, but as the 
hour is growing late, let us leave 
this board to carry with us the mem­
ory of the second annual banquet of 
the best class in Carnegie Tech, the 
class of 1918.”
cASdcALL MAMAGdF 
dLdeJdñ,
W, F, Wlikgs eha.gr WCth Kgrrgfy 
A..C.tlrt, WCikCr. Ja Mlrlbg 
cl.kgtIlii,
As a result of a recent Board of 
Control Meeting W. R. Walker was 
chosen to manage this years base ball 
team. Walker is a senior in Science 
School and under his managership 
the team should certainly get along 
rapidly. J. J. Kennedy was chosen 
as First Assistant this year.
At the same time the Manager and 
first Assistant of next year’s Basket­
ball Team were chosen. The result 
being the elections of Oliver Wilkins 
and Miller. Wilkins has filled most 
efficiently the office of first assistant 
during the past season and his elec­
tion comes as a due reward for his 
work. We feel assured that he will 
set a fine record.
A few words must be said in be­
half of McCandless, Parker, and 
Rubin who, in spite of the fact that 
they knew the first assistant for next 
year had been chosen, continued to 
come out every night and work just 
as hard as ever. Indeed they have 
illustrated true Tech spirit and are 
deserving of thanks for their work.
The Princeton Athletic Association 
announces an incraese of $5,500 in the 
msanCt. derived nsam .mast. il.t ygls,
LdJJdF uFVM MdMcdF Vu 
MUSIeAL eLUcS,
Pittsburgh, March 16, 1916.
To the Editor-in-Chief of the 
Tartain,
Dear Sir:
Last week’s issue of the Tartan 
contained an article calling attention 
to the fact that the Carnegie Musical 
Clubs had recently given a Home 
Concert. The form in which the arti­
cle was couched was so unusual as 
to give reason for comment.
In the first place, the form of the 
article was that of a musical criticism. 
The Tartan fills a place as a news­
paper, collecting definite informa­
tion of happenings taking place in 
immediate connection with the 
school, and circulating this among 
students and alumni. This news func­
tion is supplemented, as is customary, 
by comments on topics of local in­
terest, either by the editor, in which 
case they are in the column devoted 
to that purpose and are unsigned, or 
by someone else, in which case they 
are, or should be signed. Tn this case 
the criticism occupied news space and 
was for some reason left anonymous 
by the critic, w'ho had no reason to 
be ashamed of such an able statement 
of expert opinion. The article would 
have done credit to any musical re­
view, though as news its value was 
nil.
The writer wishes not to be misun­
derstood on this point. The criti­
cism was just and above all construc­
tive, as are so few student criticisms. 
A few obvious exaggerations may be 
pardoned, though the writer does not 
recall three encores to any number 
on the program. As to the alleged 
fortitude displayed by the members 
of the faculty present, perhaps their 
real courage lay, not in listening to 
the entire concert, as the article avers, 
but in telling various persons after­
ward that they had enjoyed it, when 
to the critic’s positive knowledge 
they could not possibly have done 
so.
Very sincerely,
C. B. Coe, ’17, A. S.
JdMJAJIVd PLAMS uVF 
SeBVVL PIeMIe,
Attgmmt ta Ig Mlfg ta Mlkg PCorCo 
Gsgltg.t S<oog.. Cr SohaaiT. 
BC.tasy,
Tentative plans are being formu­
lated for this year’s school picnic. The 
suggestion has ben brought up that 
the picnic may be held at some such 
park as Homestead Park this year, 
rather than at Camp Louise Carnegie. 
The advantages in favor of this plan 
would be cheaper, and easier trans­
portation facilities. A park of this 
nature could be secured, exclusively 
for the day, dancing and various other 
means of entertainment could be ar­
ranged. Offers have been received 
from several parks in which to hold 
the school picnic.
The school picnic having for some 
time been an annual event at Tech 
toward which many eagerly look for­
ward, great care is being taken to 
arrange plans which will be conducive 
to the best time possible.
SeIdMed PLdcdS AMMUAL 
cAMQUdJ A GFdAJ 
SUeedSS,
The first annual banquet of the 
Plebe class of Science was held at 
the,German Club on Friday evening, 
March 20th. Over 200 Plebes and 
their guests assembled early in the 
Reception hall. At eight o’clock they 
withdrew to the Dining room. Here 
they were seated according to sec­
tions, with one or more guests at 
each table. President Paffenbach act­
ed as Toast Master. All of the mem­
bers of the faculty present and a rep­
resentative from each section re­
sponded with Toasts. Probably the 
most unique event of the evening was 
a toast in Japanese by ichikura of 
Section D. Dean Leete, Professors 
Keller, Hower and Ihrig. Dr. Har­
ris Mr. McCorkle and Mr. Henning all 
gave interesting addresses. In addi­
tion to this a novel entertainment was 
furnished by a troupe of East Indians 
(from the Design School).
The striking feature of the even­
ing was the spirit displayed by all 
present. Each section answered roll 
call, by giving the percentage of its 
members present. Several Sections 
had one hundred per cent present, 
but Section C was awarded the prize 
for attendance. All of the speakers 
brought out the fact, that there was 
more spirit displayed at this affair 
than at any similar one in the his­
tory of school.
After the dinner, the entire class 
repaired to the Strand Theater. 
Through some mistake on the part of 
the film company the special reels of 
uncensored movies failed to arrive, 
however, the gathering enjoyed a pri­
vate exhibition of the regular pro­
gram for the day. During the inter­
missions. Dr. Harris and Professor 
Hower spoke. Dr. Harris urged that 
the present “stick together” spirit of 
the class be always maintained. He 
was given a great ovation, because 
he is probably the most peculiar pro­
fessor with the Plebes and it was 
largely due to his co-operation that 
the affair was the great success, it 
was.
Much credit is due to the com­
mittee in charge of the affair for the 
very complete arrangements. No 
detail was overlooked that could have 
made for the enjoyment of the even­
ing.
MENU 
Chicken Soup with Noodles 
Celery Olives Radishes
Baked Shad with Roe
Saratoga Chips 
Long Island Duck Apple Sauce 
New Potatoes Green Peas
Lettuce and Tomato Salad 
Neapolitan Ice Cream
Assorted Cakes
Coffee
eLVSd Vu MIGBJ SeBVVL,
The date of the Public Exhibition 
Night in all four schools is Friday, 
April 28th. Night classes in the dif­
ferent schools end as follows: 
Science May 5th; Industries, May 5th; 
Design, June 8th; M. M. C. S., April 
28th; any department to have option 
of scheduling final examinations the 
week of May 1st, if advisable.
PRIZES OFFERED
Continued from Page 2 
its local representative in the compe­
titions of architecture.
The under named Design men have 
won the forenamed prizes in various 
years:
First Paris Prize Preliminary 
Sketch, E. W. Boyer—third medal, 
1911. B. Smith, third medal, placed 
second, 1911.
Second Paris Prize Preliminary 
Sketch—V. Rigaimont, third medal,
1911.
Second Paris Prize Preliminary 
Sketch—V. Rigaimont, third medal,
1912.
Paris K
Second Preliminary Sketch, Tenth 
Paris Prize, 1913—T. J. Raguere, sec­
ond medal.
Second Preliminary Sketch, Eleventh 
Paris Prize, 1914—J. B. Hayes, third 
medal; V. Rigamount, third medal.
Pupin Prize, 1911, E. T. Griffith, 
third medal.
Warren Prize, 1913 ,T. D. Fitzbib- 
bon, second prize.
In 1912, Director Hamerschlag of­
fered a prize competition. The first, 
second and third prizes were award­
ed to T. J. Raguere, H. W. Viehman 
and J. T. Holthansen.
W. F. Diehl, received the only First 
Medal given in Class “A” Plan this 
year. Hats off to “Bill.”
This year’s Beaux Arts problems 
are listed below with the results of 
each judgment.
Class C. Order Projet—1—“A Free 
Standing Tablet”—One First Mention 
Placed, one First Mention and twen­
ty-six Mentions.
Class C Order Projet—II—“A Pri­
son Doorway.” Two First Mentions 
and twenty-four Mentions.
Class C Order Projet—III—"A 
Comparative Study of Orders.” Sev­
enteen Mentions.
Class B Plan Projet—I—“A Safe 
Deposit Vault Building.” One First 
Mention Placed and nineteen Men­
tions.
Class B Plan Projet—II—“A Court 
Room.” One First Mention and fif­
teen Mentions.
Class B Plan Projet—III—“A Ma­
sonic Temple.” One First Mention 
Placed, two First Mentions and twen­
ty-two Mentions.
Class A Plan Projet—I—“An As­
tronomical Observatory.” Nine Men­
tions.
Class A Plan Projet—II—“A Bank­
ing Office.” Eight Mentions.
Class A Plan Projet—III—“A Sub­
marine Station.” We received the 
only First Medal given in Class A 
Plan this year, one of the six Second 
Medals and twelve Mentions.
Class A. Archaeology Projet—I—“A 
Roman Pleasure Galley.” Two Third 
Medals and one Mention.
Class A Archaeology Projet—II— 
“A French Draper’s Shop Front of 
the 14th Century.’ Two Third 
Medals.
Class A. Archaeology Projet—III— 
“A Florentine Bed Room.” One 
Third Medal.
ñdSIGM JUMIVF SMVKdF 
MAFeB 30,

---------------------------------------------------

ütyr Œartatt4
ÜUt? alarían
Published every Wednesday by un­dergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of Technology.
Entered in the post office of Pittsburgh as second class matter.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES. Yearly $1.50. Canada $1.75.5c the copy.
dfCtas-Cr-ehCgnHarold L. Heilman, ’16.Phone Schenley 9022-J. 
MlrlbCrb dfCtas Edgar G. Hamilton, ’17.Phone, Schenley 9070.
Mgv. dfCtas A. M. Staehle, ’17.Phone, Schenley 9067 
AthigtCo dfCtas Charles H. Meredith, ’17.
Ast dfCtasA. Brady McSwigan, ’17.
dfCtas.C. F. Peters, ’16.P. N. Bossart, ’16 Geo. A. Cook, '18Marguerite Menges, ’16M. J. Wohlgemuth, '16.
A..aoCltg dfCtas.W. M. Swan, ’18. R. E. Vernon, '18.Beatrice E. Heinrich, '18.J. R. Hoxworth, 17. Sue Smith, 17.R. E. Dake, '18.
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper, the Managing Editor for the make-up.All news items should be in Tartan boxes in the various buildings or in the student mail by Monday noon.The Tartan welcomes all communica­tions of student interest if signed, the signature to be withheld if desired.
c<.Crg.. MlrlbgsPaul W. Emmel, ’17 
eCso<iltCar MlrlbgsB. M. Battey, ’18.
AfvgstC.Crb Mlrlbgs A. J. Walker, ’18.
All business communications should be sent to the Business Manager.Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported to the Business Manager at once.
PITTSBURGH, PA., MAR. 29, 1916
MR. CARNEGIE OUR FOUNDER.
Historical Sketch of Appropriations 
Given to School.
Mr. Carnegie has always had a deep 
interest in helping the other fellow. 
When he retired from business in 
1894, he at once began to devise ways 
and means of putting his thought into 
action. It was only six years after 
that—in 1900—when he was still an 
active man of affairs, that he wrote to 
the Mayor of Pittsburgh expressing 
his deep interest in the news he had 
just heard, that the Central Board of 
Education had asked the City of Pitts­
burgh for $100,000 to found a techni­
cal school. He states that for many 
years he hoped that he might be the 
“fortunate giver of F technical insti­
tute to the City of Pittsburgh, found­
ed upon the best models. I know of 
no institution which Pittsburgh, as an 
industrial center, so much needs.” The 
ideal held before him at that time 
was the work done at Boston Tech, 
Drexel and Armour Institutes. In the 
early days his keenest sympathy was 
with the man who works during the 
day, and wished the door of oppor­
tunity open to him at night. He has 
often said that the founding of this 
Institution has given him more real 
happiness than anything else he has 
ever done.
In the eleven years that the Carne­
gie Institute of Technology has been 
in operation he has given $13,500,000, 
and he has frequently given definite 
assurance that the Institution will be
OUR FOUNDER
amply provided for in the future. 
Everybody will remember Mr. Carne­
gie’s pride and pleasure at receiving 
from the President of the Night 
Alumni Association—that splendid
fellow, George H. Smith, now deceas­
ed—a silver tray moulded out of ten 
cent pieces contributed by all the stu­
dents in the Institution. It is inter­
esting to know that in Mr. Carnegie’s 
home, with his wealth of gifts, tokens 
and prizes about him, before him on 
his desk is a picture of the Institute 
at Pittsburgh.
The gospel Mr. Carnegie has always 
preached is “work,” and again, “more 
work.” Nothing pleases him more in 
his visits to Pittsburgh than to see 
the students actually at work, laying 
a secure foundation. With this vision 
before him we can be sure his bless­
ings will always continue to flow in 
our direction.
Among his recent visits to Pitts­
burgh his reception at the Margaret 
Morrison Carnegie School will always 
be remembered. This School has al­
ways had a particularly warm spot 
with Mr. Carnegie, owing to the beau­
tiful tribute thus paid to his mother, 
and also his wife’s very warm interest 
in it. When he was last asked to 
Pittsburgh, he remarked to the effect 
that, “I am eighty years young, and 
hope to come out to Pittsburgh and 
see my students soon.”
The most noteworthy thing about 
Mr. Carnegie’s preaching of the doc­
trine of the consecration of wealth is 
the fact that his practice has honestly 
squared with his preaching. The great 
bulk of his accumulations, some three 
hundred and fifty millions of dollars, 
has been turned back by him to the 
public to be used in the cause of hum­
an betterment. He is a man of mod­
erate fortune as fortunes are counted 
today. This fact is the first astound­
ing accomplishment to which the his­
torian of the future will point when 
he comes to estimate Mr. Carnegie’s 
service.
Mr. Carnegie has often spoken of 
the trusteeship of his wealth. He has 
wealth. He has set a splendid pace
for the rich men of the country in the 
joy of giving.
Outside of countless personal gifts, 
some of the chief causes which Mr. 
Carnegie has sought to stimulate are 
these: the promotion of good read­
ing through public libraries, the cause 
of scientific research through a re­
search institution, higher education 
through the Carnegie Foundation, and 
in some ways most interesting of all; 
service to the youth of the land 
through the Carnegie Institute of 
Pittsburgh, of which this great school 
is a part.
During our recent Carnegie Day 
celebration, a celebration of Mr. Car­
negie’s eightieth birthday, guests 
were invited from educational circles 
all over the country. Many most in­
teresting and high tributes were paid 
Mr. Carnegie, in letters received at 
the time. One may be of particular 
interest, from Ripon College, Wis­
consin: “We regret our inability to
be represented by a delegate at the 
convocation in Pittsburgh, but at 
Ripon the entire college will set apart 
a period for special recognition and 
appreciation of the public service of 
Mr. Carnegie in connection with his 
eightieth birthday.”
Little does he know that his name 
is numbered among those of our stu­
dent body of today; that in such a 
namesake eminence and fame crown 
the head of this other Andrew Carne­
gie, as the leader of one of our most 
prominent student activities. Might 
it not amuse our founder to know that 
this same namesake is forced, at cer­
tain seasons of the school year, to 
come before our Student Activities 
Board to beg for funds as a just ap­
propriation to the activity he repre­
sents. May we hope and expect, that 
some day it may be recorded in the 
annals of the Alumni Bulletin that 
our more youthful Andrew Carnegie, 
in recognition of his own debt to his 
Alma Mater, has, in the fulness of 
his enthusiasm made a gift equal in 
proportion to the prosperity we look 
to hm to enjoy.
MR. B0SSANGE REVIEWS
Continued from Page 2 
elusions. In fact, the discussion often 
ended by the painter, for instance, 
saying to the architect, “Well, I can 
paint better than you can draw and 
that settles it.” But nevertheless the 
exchange of ideas was wonderfully 
stimulating and inspiring, and I hope 
we may develop a course of some 
kind to bring about a combined ex­
change of ideas in our School.
The Department of Architecture in 
the competitions of the Beaux Arts 
Society has an opportunity of meas­
uring its work with that of other in­
stitutions. The Department of Paint­
ing and Decoration is now working 
on a scheme by which they also will 
have opportunities of bringing oui 
student work in competition with thal 
of others. Our Department of Sculp­
ture in the near future will in a simi­
lar way, be able to compete with other 
students in the competitions that arc 
now being organized by the Beaux 
Arts Society. Our Music Depart­
ment before many years are passed!
Ayill have an orchestra so well drilled 
and organized that it will be able to 
play in other cities and thus come ii? 
direct competition with the best 
talent. Our Drama Department has* 
already played outside of Pittsburgh 
and is doing work which compares 
most favorably with the work of sim­
ilar schools.
We have all the foundations and es­
sentials for the development of one 
of the greatest institutions in this 
country. To fulfill our wonderful 
destiny we shall need much patience, 
enthusiasm and ability. For many 
years we must consider all that isi 
done in the way of developing the 
School as more or less experimenta/ 
in character. We must avoid definite 
conclusions, prejudices and settled! 
policies. Only an elastic organization 
that will adapt itself to conditions 
and be ready to change whenever im­
provement is possible, can take the 
leadership and live up to the oppor­
tunities for public service that we 
have in the School of Design. 1 
know that we can count on the loyal, 
enthusiastic support of the student 
body. It will be a great privilege ii 
in the near future we can look back 
and feel we have contributed in mak­
ing this School a useful and elevating 
influence in the community.
In the short time that I have been 
here it has been impossible for me to 
meet all the students. I hope in 
time to have that pleasure and that 
the students will feel at liberty to 
come to me if I can be of any servicc 
to them whatever.
DESIGN ATHLETICS.
Although working under many dis­
advantages the Design men of all 
classes have done a great deal to 
maintain the high standard which 
characterizes all “Tech” athletics—to 
give it a back bone. Particularly dur­
ing the past two or three years the 
leaders in athletics of all kinds have 
come, to a large extent, from Design 
circles. We appreciate their work, 
we value the work which every man 
in “Tech” has done to raise the name 
of our School a step higher.
Among those prominent in foot­
ball is ex-Captain McCauhey, who 
was one of the best leaders “Tech” 
has ever produced. His leadership 
was strongly supported by men who 
sacrified much to make a name for 
the team. The 1916 season shows 
bright signs for a highly successful 
year.
In basket ball Design merl have 
held the center of the stage. Boyer 
was manager in 1915—the team never 
had a better year. Ammerman, mana­
ger for 1916 and Wilking manager- 
elect for 1917. Meredith will captain 
next year’s team which looks to a 
bright record.
In 1915 the baseball, tennis and 
hockey teams were captained by De­
sign men. Humphrey was an able 
baseball leader. Steen showed fine 
ability in tennis and Cook piloted the 
hockey team.

---------------------------------------------------

(Tartan5
HISTORY OF DEPARTMENTS
Irtgsg.tCrb ñgvgiammgrt. Jslogf 
Jhs< Sohaai'. BC.tasy
ñdPAFJMdMJ Vu AFeBIp
JdeJUFd,
It. Soamg lrf P<sma.g,
Fellow Students:
One of your “Tartan’’ staff has ask­
ed me to write a story about the De­
partment of Architecture. I’ll give 
you a sort of a hasty account of its 
beginning and progress. It will have 
to be a story more hasty and scrappy 
than the request deserves, from one 
pressed for time and possessed of no 
gifts as a story teller into the bar­
gain. The story takes me back to 
the beginning of things ten years ago. 
Incredible that ten years have slipppd 
by. This story-telling brings us face 
to face with the fact that we are no 
longer quite spring chickens!
Well, “in the beginning” the De­
partment “was without form and 
void,” so to speak. In accuracy I 
ought to say I was not an eye-wit­
ness of the very beginning, which was 
a night class in 1905, under Mr. 
Hornbostel (alias Horny), Mr. Jan­
ssen & Abbott (alias “Ben” in those 
days) and Mr. E. B. Lee (alias “Man- 
dy,” yet). But I saw nothing about 
the “Department” after I got on 
in September 1906, to make me fear­
ful of saying that in the beginning 
it was without form and void. To 
tell the truth it was no great shakes.
The Department buildings consist­
ed of the then-abandoned contractors 
shed, the same now forming that part 
of the pleasing architectural group 
occupied by the Building Bureau 
nearest the new theatre wing of our 
present Palais des Beaux Arts. As 
I remember it, the building nestled 
snugly in a landscape treatment done 
in that free mud-style with which vg 
are still not unfamiliar. The equip­
ment consisted of a one plank locker 
with a roll of detail paper in it, some 
trestles on which a double elephant 
drawing board made a kind of table, 
(when you ran your T-square up and 
down of course you knocked all your 
instruments of), and a gas stove over 
in the corner. We were strong on 
heating and ventilating even in our 
infancy! And I think there was a 
sink, too. Yes, there must have been 
a sink; for one winter night before 
charette our janitor system slip­
ped a cog, the gas stove went out, the 
water pipe froze and burst, the boys 
arrived next morning in a room re­
sembling a skating rink. Fine, you 
say. Wait a minute. That gas stove 
being necessarily relighted, that skat­
ing rink quickly transformed itself 
into a swimming pool. And coldl
M------m! Behold, each boy with his
overcoat on, an island brick under 
each foot, rendering to beat the cards!
Well, I remember the first addition 
ta a<s gq<Cmmgrt, It seemed epochal 
then. One night Janssen, Lee and 1 
had a “conference.” You see there
were nearly no books. Some dozen 
volumes or so constituted our library 
We agreed that this was not good. 
We were a little afraid to ask for 
money, but we finally got ourselves 
quite indignant and dammy; we were 
going over and have a talk with the 
Director. I think he agreed to give 
us two hundred and fifty dollars for 
books. I tell you we nearly expired 
with surprise at our sucess in obtain­
ing such a huge sum. We went away 
blowing and making noises to each 
other like captains of finance.
Then it was considered that the 
Department was not well enough 
housed and we began to move. 1 
hesitate to recall how many times 
we were moved in those first two 
years. Nobody loved us much. The. 
Man without a Country didn’t have a 
thing on the Department of Archi­
tecture. To this day I start with 
horror if any one says "move.”
Fellow architects, you may thank 
your stars that you are here now in­
stead of in those “good old days,” 
believe me. I do not recount them 
to give you any contempt for our 
beginnings or because I feel on my 
part. Far from it. But to give you 
some notion of the patience and the 
forgotten efforts spent in building up 
the opportunity now offered you.
And they were not so bad, after 
all, those first days. We did some 
some pretty fair work in design, at 
least. The boys were good-natured 
and eager. So were the instructors,— 
all young, ambitious and full of “pip,” 
as good old Sparks says. Even 
“Horny” was younger then than now, 
—you can believe it.
The Department soon found its rec­
ognition. It “succeeded” in some of 
the obvious ways, and, I think, in some 
less obvious and more to be proud of. 
From a handful of students we have 
come to be a small army of a hun­
dred and eighty odd. Our faculty has 
been steadily increased and streng­
thened. But we had good men in 
that faculty at all times. It is a 
pleasure to recall those former mem­
bers of it now elsewhere,—to remem­
ber their comradeship and their con­
tribution to our past and to the fu­
ture to be built upon it. There was 
Alaux,—good old Alaux, now fighting 
for his country as gaily as he used to 
work with us; writing articles to the 
American architectural journals, and 
funny letters to his American friends. 
He would be gay with his head shot 
off, .that fellow. Ferrand, now at 
Washington University, Campbell, 
now at Armour. Lee and Janssen 
and Schwab. All good fellows and 
good men. I got something from 
them all and I believe many a stu­
dent of their day will recognize a 
debt to them more than equal nine. 
I hope the Tartan staff or some of 
our boys will send every one of them
this evidence that their good work 
has lived after them at least to now. 
That ought to please any man.
The future is before us. We have 
a good opportunity. It is “our ball. ’ 
It would be a great pity if we did not 
greatly outdo our former successes,— 
if we did not do geuninely fine things 
for the architectural art of our day 
and of those to come.
ñdPAFJMdMJ Vu PAIMJIMG 
AMñ ñdeVFAJIVM, IJTS 
WVFK AMñ AIMS,
The production of motion pictures 
is a great art and when it is well done, 
the sympathy of the audience moves 
in tempo with the reel itself. The 
instructors of this department are 
trying, in a way, to teach the technic 
of the “movies;” to ¿now that it is 
possible, three painting and illustra­
tions, to break the barriers of com­
mon place materialism and enter into 
the realm of the Make Believe. To 
show their students how to leave the 
hot, bald highways of life and find 
those trails that lead to the Make 
Believe land; where are the pools of 
peace, or the briar patches, where no 
one but their own kin can live.
Then again, they aim to touch upon 
the art of the commercial field. To 
level their art to a more practical 
plane and touch any phase of com­
mon needs. We have already had a 
taste of their wares. Many a Junior 
Prom or school function would have 
failed utterly but for the unique, se­
ductive posters made by those stu­
dents. They enfuse interest and de­
light into the most trivial occasions 
and are highly practical as well as 
beautiful. The commercial artist of 
today, is the one who, moving the 
magic wand of color, can reach out, 
make money change hands, and as 
it does so, taste of the droppings.
We are engaged in all of these arts 
over in that lyrical pile called the 
School of Applied Design. The stu­
dents in art, advancing through the 
various styles in drawing; from still 
life to the cast ornament and on to 
the cast and live figure; yet a certain 
looseness of vision in the sense of 
a free expression, by sketch class work 
both in and out of-doors. This con­
tinued work, developes their cells of 
observation to that degree necessary 
for creative work. All of which means 
the working together of an incalcula­
ble number of faculties, commonly 
called imagination. Art works in 
these mysterious ways, its wonders 
to perform.
The Department of Painting and 
Decoration provides professional 
training in four branches of the 
graphic arts—Painting, Illustration, 
Decoration and Normal Arts. Paint­
ing, in itself, is, after all, but an illu­
sion produced by the changing effects 
of light and shade. This may be not­
ed as the fundamental principle of 
painting. The beauty of decoration 
demands a certain harmony in the 
choice of colors according to the re­
quirements of decorative laws. Por­
trait painting, including minatures, is 
also one of the possibilities open to 
the exceptional student. He holds 
the key to a field of special work, such
as; the design of window displays, 
representative drawings for scientific 
purposes, and the design and painting 
of scenery for the theatre. Graduates 
of this department readily find posi­
tions as book and magazine illustrat­
ors; designers and illustrators, for the 
many types of advertising matter, such 
as magazine and news courier adver­
tisements, postors for out door dis­
play, etc. A wide and well paying 
field is that of the cartoonists, who 
must have the adimentine foundation 
of the preparatory work of this de­
partment in order to become profi­
cient men in that line.
The courses presented in the de­
partment of decoration prepares one 
as a designer or contractor for the 
interior decoration of public buildings, 
hotels and residences. While other 
branches of this department offer the 
special designing of fabrics, furniture, 
wall papers or in various crafts de­
signing jewelry, potters, etc.
Students of the Normal Art become 
supervisors of art in Public Schools 
or Art teachers in secondary schools 
and colleges.
ñdPAFJMdMJ Vu SeULPJUFd,
eil..g. Mav Bgif Cr eily MafgiCrb 
lrf So<imt<sg,
The Department of sculpture offers 
courses in preparation for profession­
al work in monumental and architec­
tural sculpture.
Students avail themselves also of 
the advantages of work in the archi­
tectural department and in the draw­
ing and design classes of the depart­
ment of Printing and Decoration.
There is considerable demand for 
workers in sculpture as applied to Ar­
chitecture with the possibility of be­
coming monumental sculptors. Many 
special lines of work demand the serv­
ices of capable modelers and design­
ers in the round.
Most of the desirable work in this 
country is given out by competition, 
many of them open to all, thus af­
fording a young sculptor an opportun- 
iay to get in touch with work of the 
highest class. The winner of these 
competitions generally becomes re­
sponsible for the full completion of 
the contract work for putting his de­
sign into permanent form and erect­
ing it in place. Often too, the sculp­
tor decides upon the architecture, 
setting and landscape surroundings all 
of which calls for taste and general 
knowledge as well as technical skill.
JBd ñdPAFJMdMJ Vu MUSIe,
Ir.ts<otas. uasm l Jligrtgf Jglohp
Crb Stlnn,
The dream, of a “Department of 
Music” in the School of Applied De­
sign, so long cherished by those most 
interested, took concrete form in 
January, 1913, under the auspices of 
the late Charles Russtll Hewlett, then 
dean, whose untimely death the fol­
lowing November was a severe blow 
to the undertaking and to all those 
engaged in its development.
The only equipment with which 
this department began its work was 
the unbounded enthusiasm of the four 
Continued on Page 6

---------------------------------------------------

6©arlan
BISJVFY Vu ñdPAFJMdMJS
Continued from Page 5 
men, who constituted its first faculty 
—Mr. Hewlett, Mr. J. Vick O’Brien, 
Mr. Malchereck and the late Mr. Ar­
thur Gordon Burgoyne, and the twen­
ty-six students who presented them­
selves for the first enrollment.
That these men “had a dream, 
which was not at all a dream”—sub­
sequent events prove, as is evidenced 
by the rapidly increasing enrollment 
at each semester, until it has become 
necessary to turn many applicants 
away.
The department had not recovered 
from the loss of the dean when (4 
months later fate dealt it another 
stinging blow in the sudden death of 
Mr. Arthur Gordon Buryogne Instruc­
tor in History and Aesthetics, the 
senior member of the faculty—a man 
whose experience, enthusiasm and 
erudition made him an irreparable 
loss to the work. It appeared as 
though fate were challenging the 
courage of the two men left and their 
sincerity in the undertaking; that they 
accepted that challenge cheerfully and 
triumphed greatly, the following facts 
attest.
Mr. J. Vick O’Brien, as director, of 
this department, submits the follow­
ing report of the progress made. The 
first enrollment was sixteen day stu­
dents and ten night students as 
against the present enrollment of for­
ty-nine day students and eighty-nine 
night students.
The original faculty numbered a 
teaching force of three which has been 
increased to six full time and twelve 
part time instructors. The cultural 
subjects (English Literature and His­
tory of Art), required from those seek­
ing the degree of “Bachelor of Arts 
in Music,” are taken, with the stu­
dents of the other departments, un­
der the direction of Prof. Harold 
Geoghegan; while the languages re­
quired (French, German and Italian) 
are taken under Prof. Frederic Pierre 
Colette.
The department now has twenty- 
nine practice rooms and six rooms 
used as studios by the instructors on 
the various instruments.
There is an appropriation made for 
the equipment of a library of music, 
for which a nucleus has been already 
formed by private gifts of books and 
music.
The proximity of Carnegie Library 
and Music Hall is an unusual advan­
tage to the student body. Two free 
organ recitals are given there each 
week by Mr. Heinroth, patron of this 
department and through the courtesy 
of the Art Society—five tickets (in a 
limited number) and tickets at nomi­
nal rates are furnished to the highest 
class of concerts. For the understand­
ing and appreciation of these con­
certs the students are prepared by lec­
ture, and when possible, by critical 
study of the programmes in advance 
of the performance.
Instruction is provided for all or­
chestral instruments, as particular 
stress has always been put upon this 
feature of the work, by Mr. O’Brien, 
who conducts and who hopes even­
tually to give to Pittsburgh and vicin­
ity an organization prepared to inter­
pret artistically the highest forms of 
orchestral composition.
The present corps of instructors in­
clude Mr. Malchereck (violin), Mr. 
Dyrdine ’cello), Mr. Selmer Jensen, 
(piano); Mr. Henry K. Schmidt, 
(piano); Mr. Casper Koch (organ); 
Mr. Keible, (history and aesthetic’s); 
Mr. O’Brien (harmony and counter 
point); while Mr. B. S. Weber looks 
after the Clubs Chorale and sight- 
singing. Under the present regime, a 
series of recitals are given on alter­
nating Sunday evenings in the thea­
tre, while the orchestral rehearsals 
every Sunday afternoon are open to 
the public. With a full realization of 
all its short comings, those most in­
terested feel that the things accom­
plished have far exceeded their ex­
pectations and look for great results 
in the future.
ñdPAFJMJMJ Vu ñFAMAJIe 
AFJS,
Mlry Pily. Stlbgf SCrog ua<rfgf,
The Department of Dramatic Arts 
was founded in Design on February 
9, 1914, with Mr. Stevens at the head 
and 14 students enrolled. The Thea­
tre was opened April 23rd, with 
Shakespeare’s play “Two Gentlemen 
of Verona.”
Practically every Design man aided 
the students and Mr. Robertson, the 
director, to make their first produc­
tion a success.
Architects and illustrators helped 
mend and make costumes, scenery and 
props; “profs” and student volunteer­
ed to sing. So after an all night re­
hearsal the grand “Charette” ended 
and the dramatic ship of state was 
launched successfully.
This new season was a short arg; 
but that summer eleven of the stu­
dents with sixteen chaperons vgrt ta 
Finley Lake for a three weeks’ en­
gagement. There they produced six 
plays and returned to Pittsburgh feel­
ing highly enriched and experienced, 
leaving a- disappointed summer resort 
audience to bemoan their departure.
The fall of 1914, admitted 15 new 
students to the department and dur­
ing the season of 1914 and 1915 the 
following plays were produced:
“The Land of Heart’s Desires,” 
“The Shadow of the Glen”, Yeats; 
“Drawing Dolls”, Synge; “The VCap
lin Maker of Cremona,” Goodman; 
“The Betrayal”, Cohun; “The King’s 
Threshold,” Yeats; “Iphigenia in Tau- 
ris,” Euripides; “The Second Shep­
herd Play,’’ Masten; “Creatures an Im­
pulse,” Gilbert; “Tests of the Arabs,” 
Dusany; “Chaplet of Pan,’’ Stevens; 
“Much Ado About Nothing,” Shakes­
peare; “Glory of the Morning,” Chan- 
ning; “The Neighbors,’’ Gale; “You 
Never Can Tell,” Shaw; "As You 
Like It,” Shakespeare; “The Elder 
Brother,” Fletcher; “Tartuffe,” Map
line: “The Liars,’ Jones; “Hippoly- 
ties,” Euripides.
We welcomed the plebes this 
year and watched keenly for new and 
good material and found it.
The days when a dozen of us made 
up before a 2 by 4 mirror at the same 
time; nights when chill winds blew
Continued on Plbg 7
BAMILJVMTS
Pianos and Player Pianos
Jhg mlbrCnCogrt Ml.ar & BlmiCr, thg 
A, c, ehl.g, thg uC.ohgs, thg KCrb.I<sb, lrf 
athgs bslrf lrf <msCbht mClra.,
COROLA AND EUPHONA INNER PLAYERS
UmsCbht.—$175 <m 
Gslrf.—$445 <m 
Pilygs.—$350 <m
S. HAMILTON CO.
815-817 LCIgsty Avgr<g, PCtt.I<sbh 
VICTOR EDISON COLUMBIA TALKING MACHINES
PsCog.
New Pianos
i860Í9Í6
uCnty SCx Ygls. an ulCs ñgliCrb
SJVdcdMdFTS
Jhg Mlr vCth thg Shag.
6227 Pgrl Avg,, d, d, 
6222 uslrk.tavr Avg,, d, d,
TAKE ELEVATOR—SAVE $10.00
Full Dress and 
Tuxedo Suits
$15 & $20. 
For Hire 
$2.50JuslSPrices2 Just Prices
Entire Second 
Floor 
241 Fifth
Avenue 
Above 
Walk-Over 
Shoe Store.
There are no $15 & $20 clothes in this store. You’ll get actual$25 & 
$30 values and not simply clothes which look like $25 & $30 values. 
We cut Qround Floor Rent and other big expense out of your cost. 
THAT’S WHY YOU SAVE $10. MAURICE GOLDMAN, Psam,
HOTEL SCHENLEY | 
SAFcdF SBVP AMñ PVVL FVVM
MdW JAcLdS 
AMñ MdW MAMAGdMdMJ
Bgsmlr B, Aflm
GFVedF
405 S, ñIJBFIñGd SJ,
VeBTS
THE BEST STORE FORBES & A TWOOD
SPFIMG WdIGBJ UMñdFWdAF
Cr Iath UrCar lrf tva-mCgog .<Ct. 
$1,00 l .<Ct
Ary .tyig, AthigtCo, iarb .iggvg, .hast 
.iggvg, krgg as lrkig igrbth fslvgs.,
Sgg a<s .migrfCf iCrg an AthigtCo UrCar SlCt. lt 
$1,00 .<Ct

---------------------------------------------------

(üartatts
HISTORY OF DEPARTMENTS
Continued from Page 6 
over the stage upon the bare toes and 
arms of actors in Greek tragedies; 
plays wherein if we danced off the 
stage too briskly we were precipit­
ated against brick walls; these times 
have gone. We have entered upon 
a new era in stage craft. A cosy stage, 
a comfy greenroom, a round table 
room, modern, serviceable dressing 
rooms with ample sized mirrors (one 
apiece) and professional rules that we 
feel in the air like unwritten laws; 
these are our surroundings now.
The advent of these new material 
advantages are only symbols of what 
our school stands for outside of Car­
negie “Tech” and Pittsburgh. The 
drama school has become known all 
over the country as the only one of 
its kind; and is discussed and admired 
in New York dramatic circles by the 
greatest actors and actresses of our 
day.
But alas, genesis is not always ap­
preciated in its own birth place. Pitts­
burgh is just beginning to realize that 
she fosters a veritable hot bed of ris­
ing dramatic stars. Although we 
modestly admit the recognition we 
have received from dramatic critics of 
both the “Pittsburgh Gazette” and 
the “Tartan.”
Threatening murmurs are even 
heard in the dear old building, which 
harbors our beloved theatres. The 
words of Cyril Maude come back to 
us often. “The strongest spotlight; 
the light of the public eye shines upon 
you, exaggerating your slightest word 
and action, but we rejoice that there 
is still the "steel curtain’’ of goodwill 
and broadmindedness to shield our 
beloved art.”
Remember the department is a 
mere restless infant in the cradle of 
design perhaps a noisy and not an 
adored one but after the manner of 
infants proclaiming its importance by 
making shure. So keep track of the 
lights on Broadway and some day 
you will surely discover there the 
names of past favorites at Carnegie 
Tech.
THE WHITE FRIARS CLUB.
Techs First Dramatic Organization.
In the spring of 1907, the idea of 
the White Friars Dramatic Club first 
made its presence felt. With a char­
ter membership of thirty-two, active 
preparations were started for a play 
to be put on during the next school 
year. “All in a Dormitory,” a musi­
cal comedy, of school life was pro­
duced on June 16th, 1908. Mr. Wal­
ter B. Edmundson coached and wrote 
the first production. It was given at 
the Alvin Theater and at several out- 
of-town theaters. The officers for 
the first year were:
Lowell D. Nichols, ’10 ....President
Walter Gray, ’09..........Vice-President
Donald D. Mitchell, ’10 .. Sec’y-Treas. 
M. Markle Steen, 08... Business Man.
Walter Gray ..it.........................Press
Wm. Sivitz .................Stage Manager
J. R. Mench .........................Properties
P. B. Martin .......................Electrician
W. McD. Dorrington was musical di­
rector of the chorus and orchestra 
composed of Tech men.
“His Highness the Chef” was pro­
duced with great success on May 29th, 
1909, and compared favorably with 
the productions of older and more 
experienced clubs. “The Message of 
the Waltz” a song still remains of 
this production. It was written by 
W. P. De Long. W. B. Edmundson 
wrote and coached this play also.
Officers for the year 1910 were: 
Alan Bright, ’11 ..President (Acting)
O. Bieler ............................... Secretary
Frank X. Keally .................Treasurer
Donald D. Mitchell ............. Manager
C. M. Crawford ...Assistant Manager 
W. B. Edmundson ...Stage Director 
W. M. D. Dorrington ...Musical Dir-
It was produced at the Nixon Thea­
tre, Butler, Sewickley and New Cas­
tle.
SCHOLARSHIP AWARDED 
M. M. C. S. STUDENT
It was with great pleasure that the 
student body learned that the annual 
scholarship given by the Pittsburgh 
Female College was awarded this 
year to Miss Katherine Miller. Miss 
Miller, who is from Philadelphia, is 
a Senior and has been with us two 
years, entering on advanced stand­
ing. We certainly wish her the besl 
and most successful of careers, which 
fact is assured if her future accomp­
lishments are to be judged by her 
past and present ones.
P. LUDEBUEHL & ¿ON
Shag. lrf Ba.Cgsy Pgrr lrf uslrk.tavr
DESIGN BALLS
Continued from Page 2 
master. It stimulates the imagina­
tion to it3 highest pitch of assent and 
helps us to forget for a time at least, 
the quantity of our daily routine. 
The sooner we learn to indulge of­
ten in such revel, the happier will be 
our college remembrances and at the 
same time, the more beneficial.
$3,50 ta $10,00 thg PlCs
uVVJPFIMJS LdAñ JV ñdJdeJIVM
The standing of a man is as often as not told 
by his footwear—if he is careless of that, he’s apt 
to be negligent of more important things. If you 
will buy your shoes here, you may be certain of 
looking all right, feeling all right ar>d impressing 
others with the fact that you are “all right. ’ 
Our Shoes are built by some of the most repre­
sentative Shoe Manufacturers in the world.
SmgoCli MgrT. ñgmt,
“Miss Mistahen” was given at the 
Alvin Theatre May 28th, 1910, and 
was a worthy successor to the prev­
ious offerings.
The Officers of year of 1911 were: 
“Alan’’ Bright, ”11............. President
C. E. Moss, ’11 ..............1st V-President
H. P. Smith, 12........2nd V-President
J. K. Lamoree, ’12 .............Treasurer
D. D. Mitchell, ’12...............Secretary
C. M. Crawford, ’13 ...Business Man.
W. B. Edmundson .....................Coach
W. Dorrington ........Musical Director
The organization of the club con­
sisted of an undergraduate club, and 
graduate club. The undergraduate 
club was composed of men registered 
in the school who had had some part 
in the production or had held execu­
tive office. The graduate club was 
composed of members of the under­
graduate club elected when they left 
school. The Board of Governors was 
the controlling body and was com­
posed of seven men elected from both 
clubs.
The club was disbanded.
TJWIXJ eUP AMñ LIP
thlt lvn<i .iCm C. sgrfgsgf hlsmig.. Iy a<s 
ma.t gnnColoCa<. .y.tgm an fsy-oiglrCrb, Wg 
olr sgrfgs <rta ya< iCkg rgv thg .aCigf, 
fC.nCb<sgf, fC.oaiasgf lrf .tlCrgf blsmgrt. 
an yg.tgsfly,
Jhg oa.t C. .mlii nas thg .gsvCog,
J, d, J, SBUMAM
391 1 Forbes Street 
Sohgrigy 875
“A NATIONAL INSTITUTION”
Browning, King & Co.
CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS, AND HATS FOR MEN, BOYS AND CHILDREN 
439-441 WOOD STREET
BELLEFIELD AVENUEFIFTH AVENUE
SeBdMLdY uAFMS
Schenley Farms with its restrictions and wide, 
well lighted streets, 
its nearness to all parts of the City, 
make it the ideal home location.
We build and finance for you.
The Schenley Farms Company
1414 ulsmgs. clrk cifb,, eCty
Phone Grant 3
IFVM eIJY dLdeJFIe eV,
6033 BROAD ST., E. E.
BATTERYtf>e
SERVICE
ALL MAKES OF BATTERIES 
REPAIRED AND RECHARGED
Bowdoin has recently been given 
a collection of books on polar explor­
ation.
WEBER EXPRESS ¿™LEY 
and STORAGE CO.
Moving, Packing and Storing of F urniture 
and Pianos. Geneial Hauling 
Baggage to and from Depots
4616-18-20 HENRY ST., PITTSBURGH
Mafgsr ñlrog.
CLASSES AND PRIVATE
R. E. JACQUES
(All CASTLE’S Work) 
uasIg. lrf eslCb St.,, PCtt.I<sbh

---------------------------------------------------

fi©íje ©arta«
Good Clothes 
Cheaper
ñdSIGM SeBVVL eLUcS,
Clothiers, T ailors, Hatters 
Furnishers
504 506 ugfgsli St,, M, S,
0
CHOCOLATES
“OUR MESSENGER”
ñJ.C.Bragdon
_ COMM ERC1AL PHOTOGRAPHER 
WOODCUTS.ZINC ETCHING,HALF-TONE-
BOTH PHONES ENGRAVEP
CS** 7UPENN AVE. PI T TSBVRQH, P/l.^
JBd eBUFeB Vu JBd 
ASedMSIVM
ELLSWORTH AVENUE 
AND NEVILLE STREET 
DR. WYATT BROWN, Fgotas
S<rfly SgsvCog. 1 1:00 A, M,, 7:45 P, M, 
SmigrfCf M<.Co, Shast Sgsmar.
dxmgst eiglrCrb 
lrf Psg..Crb
102 W. Dorm
W.O.BRECKON
SJUñIVS
uasIg. lrf Atvaaf Stsggt. 
Phones 160—3161 Schenley
Special Prices to Tech Students
BRACE BROS.
LAUNDRY
TRENTON AVENUE 
WILKINSBURG 
cgii Pharg, WCikCr. 23
Jhsgg uCsmiy Gsa<rfgf VsblrCp
zltCar.,
The clubs recognized in the Design 
School are not numerous; but each 
has a concrete purpose in view—each 
is heading toward a chosen goal. The 
nature of our student tastes; their 
wide, varying range of customs and 
choices, makes it impossible for a 
large number of clubs to live for any 
length of time. Rather, we have found 
it far nearer our advantage, to con­
centrate our efforts in a few organi­
zations and give to their ideals the 
best our hands and talent can afford.
JdeB AFeBIJdeJUFAL eLUc,
The Tech. Architectural Club has 
grown from a gathering of a few men, 
who really loved architecture, to an 
organization of many members. Each 
year new men, the best among the 
architects, are initiated into full mem­
bership.
The purpose of the Club is to en­
gender a keener appreciation of good 
architecture among Design men and 
to bind, in a brotherly way, men of 
like aspirations and work.
The Year Book, which will soon 
leave the press, is in itself a revela­
tion. Filled with the best architectural 
works of the city and school,—it be­
comes at once a pride, a pleasure, and 
a near-necessity to every architect. 
It is a product of many minds and 
hands, worthy of praise, and adequate 
in every detail.
JdeB SJUñIV eLUc,
The Tech, Studio Club now has 
four officers and a membership of 
thirty boys. It, like all Design or­
ganizations, has had a rapid growth 
but a short life. We must not for­
get that the Design School itself is 
yet in swaddling clothes.
The club members are chosen from 
the students of the department of Il­
lustration and Decoration. In point 
of fact, it is a society for the develop­
ment of interest in Art among stu­
dents of the Design School. Many in­
teresting and instructive lectures and 
exhibitions are held by the Club each 
year. Through a period of four years 
it has grown, slowly, but surely, to 
an active exponent in Design circles.
JdeB ñdSIGM eLUc,
The Tech. Design Club is an or­
ganization entirely of girls. Its pur­
pose is close a-kin to the Tech. Studio 
Club and its roll call now holds sixty 
names. The girls of Design have 
planted the embargo of a society 
which, in the future, shall become 
one of the guiding forces in Design 
work.
JBd ñdSIGM MdMcdFS Vu JBd 
SdAMMAeBId,
The Senannachie is an honorary 
society established in 1912 composed 
of the schools most active men. The 
following are the Design members: 
W. F. Finkel, J. B. Hays, Jr., ’14, 
L. H. Button, H. C. Franks, F. H. 
Haaren, G. H. Ebeling, ’14 E. R. Haz-
elton, ’IS, W. F. McCaughey, ’15, Ed­
ward Cocenys, ’15, F. L. Rownd, ’15,
H. L. Heilman, ’16, C. C. Pritsch, ’16,
H. B. Pearce, ’16, M. E. Boyer, ’16, 
W. H. Crosby.
1913—G. L. Blain, C. W. Crawford, 
R. M. Crawford, E. L. Clair, J. R. 
Gearhardt, A. E. Hamilton, T. G. Tl- 
liott, G. G. Kelcey, D. R. Mitchell, S. 
J. Taylor, R. Ward, F. L. Crawford, 
W. J. Corbett, E. E. Duff, F. A. Eng- 
strom, L. E. Griswald, G. B. Kline, 
J. C. Siegel, A. E. Vail, O. W. Waitt.
edLdcFIJIdS BAVd VISIJdñ 
SeBVVL, ñdSIGM SeBVVL 
GIVdM MUeB PFAISd
Since the Design Building opened 
its doors to the public and students, 
many visitors have admired its ac­
commodations. No feature has been 
left undone or overdone; every detail 
for beauty and service has been given 
the keenest attentions. To enumer­
ate the persons of note who have vis­
ited the school since its opening 
would be a tiresome task. This year 
the following people have admired 
and praised our work:
Mr. E. H. Sothern and Julia Mar­
lowe, (Mrs. Sothern) were guests of 
the Department of Dramatic Art at a 
complimentary matinee and recep­
tion.
Dr. W. C. Frost, professor of Bac­
teriology, University of Wisconsin.
Mr. F. H. P. Carrington, curator 
of prints of Boston Museum of Fine 
Arts and lecturer at Harvard.
Charles Hawthorn, Painter.
Miss Edna Rich, President State 
Normal School, Santa Barbra, Califor­
nia.
Judge E. J. Buffington.
Orlando Rowland, New York Sculp­
tor who won, in 1903, the Paris Grand 
Prix offered by the French Govern­
ment.
Forty members of the Co-operative 
Welfare Association of Pittsburgh.
President Keer, Organic Agricul­
tural College.
M. Yamashita, Mining Engineer, Ja­
pan.
Dr. George W. Naysmith, World.
Peace Foundation, Boston.
Jas. G. Whitely, Baltimore, Secre­
tary of Belgian Relief Fund of Amer­
ica.
Norman Angell, Peace Conference.
Cyril Maud, Actor.
Maud Adams.
Markthaler, first baseman, has been 
elected captain of the Wesleyan base­
ball team, Lanning having been de­
clared ineligible.
ñdSIGM JUMIVF SMVKdF 
MAFeB 30,
TOUR PHOTOGRAPH
sgmsg.grt. ya< vhgr lIp
.grt, ñag. Ct fa ya< 
j<.tCog?
Blvg l rgv arg lt
JAMIdSVM SJUñIV
242 S, BCbhilrf Avg,
Vlkilrf 
SlvCrb. & Js<.t ea,
“Jhg Vlkilrf clrk”
elmCtli $200,000,00 
S<smi<. $200,000,00 
ñgma.Ct. avgs $2,000,000,00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
GREGSON’S
JdA FVVM AMñ eAKd SBVP
LUNCHEON 
\2 to 2 P. M. 
AFTERNOON TEA 
3 to 5 P. M.
Pharg 2052 BCilrf 5909 Pgrr Av,
Bell Phone 
4180 CourtP. & A. Phone 
1751 Pitt
In ya< vlrt ta FdMJ thg Ig.t 
uULL ñFdSS SUIJS—<m ta
fltg Cr .tyig—olii thg
PIJJScUFGB
DRESS SUIT CO.
440 Wood Street
Second Floor
uVF FdMJ: u<ii ñsg.., J<xp
gfa., PsCrogf AiIgst., e<tlvly., 
SCik Blt., Aii rgv .taok,

---------------------------------------------------

Stye Sartan0
ECOLE DES BEAUX ARTS
Continued, from Page 1 
grading, and any foreigners who have 
marks as good as the lowest of these 
45 men to the number of 15, are 
accepted. The subjects of examina­
tion are architectural design, mathe­
matics of all kinds, descriptive geo­
metry, history, charcoal drawing, 
modelling, etc. Some of these exam­
inations are of the oral types.
Once received into the school the 
student chooses one of the existing 
ateliers. Two of these are school or 
government ateliers which have no 
tuition fee. The others charge from 
10 to 20 francs a month besides ask­
ing an entrance fee of 100 francs.
A day is set aside for the initiations 
which is very interesting, as French­
men know how to be original in such 
things. Somethimes as many as ten 
men are taken into a atelier which 
may receive a 1000 francs from them. 
This is used for new books, upkeep of 
atelier and drinks for all.
The student is now noveau and does 
service about the atelier for a perioa 
of six months. The discipline during 
the first year or two is very rigid 
and the noveau knows where he be­
longs in the arrangement of his ate­
lier .
Frenchmen who have passed their 
examinations, etc., usually begin their 
army service of two years, all others 
begin work in the second class . It 
consists of two analytics or orders 
from projects, mathematic of all 
kinds, construction, stereometry, per­
spective and descriptive geometry, 
charcoal drawing, modelling, lectures 
on different college subjects; history, 
theory, etc.
Once in the first class the student 
must receive 10 mentions—-projects, 
and then he prepares for his diploma 
examinations.
Prizes offered some of which
“JBd cdSJ AMdFIeAM MAKdT
an j. ‘DoncasterArrow COLLAR2 for 25ceiagtt, PglIafy & ea,, Iro,, Makers
BUY A BOX OF
HARRIS BROS.
X.N o259,16
YOUR GIFT WILL BE APPRECIATED
CHOICE
ROSES. AMERICAN BEAUTIES 
CARNATIONS AND VIOLETS
HARRIS BROS.
eas, Mlskgt lrf LCIgsty Avg,
BELL PHONE 4125 GRANT 
P. a A. PHONE 72 MAIN
are the Achille Leclere Cavel, var 
by Mr. Hood 1910, Roux, (Godeloeuf, 
won by Mr. Brown), Rongevin (var 
by Mr. Ellington in 1914. Labarre 
won by Mr. Kalin in 1911), Chene- 
vard, American and finally the Grand 
Prix. The last to open to any french­
man under 30 years of age. About 
three hundred try. The first exami­
nation is a 12 hour one. A limited 
number try the next which is 24 hours. 
The ten best of these works form a 
program and the winner goes to 
Rome for four years.
This description gives a partial idea 
of the most wonderful school of art 
yet organized. It has taken years to 
evolve the present system which is 
for french conditions only.
Naturally one likes to copy a suc­
cess as the short road to quick re­
sults, but art is peculiar.
The patrons never attempt to re­
duce the instruction to a formula. No 
particular style of architecture is ad­
vocated except that which seems most 
natural to the subject. Of course 
traditions affect all modern architec­
ture. Again many ask if art can be 
taught. Innate qualities have to be 
brought out by some educational me­
thod whether in a school where many 
are taught at the same time, or by a 
tutor, or practicing architect who may 
teach only one at a time. These qual­
ities are what the student has to 
learn as a basis. The education at­
tempts to show him how to utilize 
them.
Architectural knowledge does not 
consist in an exact understanding of 
the relative proportions of the or­
ders according to the ancients or 
others, but is based supremely upon 
reason and common sense. It con­
sists in knowing how these qualities 
should govern architectural forms so 
that they shall become the expression 
of a civilization—an expression so di­
rect and frank that the common peo­
ple can sit in judgment upon them 
and recognize what is good and what 
is bad.
Imitate not the works of ancient 
architects but the spirit with which 
thev usually composed those works in 
subjecting form to reason according 
to the supreme law of good taste, we 
should have a distinctive and charac­
teristic architecture.
This necessiates a most thorough 
preparation in which imagination 
above is developed.
NEW TRUSTEES.
J. J. Turner, first vice president oi 
Pennsylvania Lines West, and John 
L. Porter, president of the Art So­
ciety of Pittsburgh, were elected 
members of the board of trustees oJ 
the Carnegie Institute last week. Mr. 
Turner fills the vacancy caused 
by the death of George A. Mac­
beth and Mr. Porter takes the place 
of Martin B. Leisser, the artist who 
recently resigned. Mr. Leisser’s re­
signation was caused by the fact that 
he has gone to the Hawiian Islands, 
where he will remain for several 
years.
©
Ggt thg Flrbg an SmakCrb 
SltC.nlotCar
Roll “Bull” Durham into a cigarette and you have 
a smoke with all the vim, vigor and dash of Uncle 
Sam’s fighting men, That’s why the American Army 
is an army of “Bull’’ Durham smokers. “Bull’’ Durham 
puts snap into their action and “punch” into their 
systems. For a virile, lively, manly smoke, “roll your 
-----” -with “Bull” Durham,own
GENUINE2CORR LOANDE
Ask for^FREE package of“paper*” with each Sc Back.
SMOKING TOBACCO
“c<ii” ñ<shlm C. thg mCifg.t of lii taIlooa., 
<rCq<g lsaml lrf l fC.tCrotCvg 
mgiiav-.vggt nilvas thlt ra athgs 
taIlooa olr bCvg ya<,
Mlfg an thg nlma<. “IsCbht”
VCsbCrCl-M asth elsai Crl igln, “c<ii 
ñ<shlm hl. Iggr thg bsglt Amgsp
Colr .makg nas thsgg bgrgsltCar.,
Ya< “saii ya<s avrT* vCth 
“c<ii” ñ<shlm lrf grjay l sgli 
.makg,
JP* IP* Ar Iii<.tsltgf caakigt, s* |\ (J*, I* .havCrb oassgot vly ta ^ “Faii Ya<sVvr”eCbl-
sgttg.,lrf l mloklbg an oCblsgttg mlmgs., 
vCii Iath Ig mlCigf, free, ta lry lffsg.. Cr U, S, ar sgq<g.t, Affsg.. “c<ii 
ñ<shlm, ñ<shlm, M, e,
THE AMERICAN TOBACCO CO.
It hl.
I n AAA ! rr ri I i AAAAAA ri I ; I n AAAAAAAAAAA1A1A1 n'.TJTTri npaldinçfJtfile tic Ä Goodsun I irnni AA ii AA in AA in I h mi I m I in I mr
PRICE QUALITY BEAUTY
FLOWERS
E. C. LUDWIG FLORAL CO.
710 EAST DIAMOND ST 
"OPPOSITE CARNEGIE MUSIC HALL"
NORTHSIDE PITTSBURGH
uas dAJS eamg ta US
Wg vlrt ta n<srC.h thg clkgf Gaaf. 
nas ya<s uslt, Mly vg?
THE HALLER BAKERY
In the Center of the IROQUOIS BLOCK, Oakland
A regular 35c Hair Cut for 25c
Jgoh clsIgs Sham
FRED FARGEL, Proprietor 
CRAIG AND FORBES STREETS
uas Aii
Vool.Car.
FAMñVLPB & MoeLdMdMJS
uLVFAL dXPdFJS
5936 Pgrr Avg,, rgls BCbhilrf Avg,
Enterprise Cleaning Company
eLdAMdFS AMñ ñYdFS 
Perfect Work in Ladies’, Children’s and 
Household Work 
Oriental Rugs and Draperies a Specialty 
401 EAST END TRUST BLDG., PITTSBURGH 
Phones : Office 449 Hiland : Works 4912 Hilan
The Massachusetts Argicultural 
College is to have a new hockey rink.PAJFVMIZd VUF AñVdFJISdFS

---------------------------------------------------

in©arta«
thg q<g.tCarb. & b.
rav oarnsartCrb ma.t mgamig C. SmsCrb eiathCrb,
Mgvgs hl. thC. g.tlIiC.hmgrt Iggr Igttgs msgmlsgf ta .gttig thlt q<g.tCar 
ta thg .ltC.nlotCar an thg .tyig. lrf thg m<s.g,
Jhg SaoCgty cslrf, csaklv csa., lrf StgCr ciaoh eiathCrb nas mgr hlvg 
thlt .rlm vhCoh ya<rb mgr vlrt lrf fgmlrf, lrf l. ta thg rgv .<Ct., 
ñsg..g., ealt. lrf Shag. nas thg flCrty mC.. thg l..astmgrt. lsg .<oh l. m<.t 
Ig .ggr ta Ig lmmsgoCltgf,
Ir.mgotCar lrf oammlsC.ar vCii mlCrtlCr a<s oartgrtCar an iavgs msCog.,
True
ValuescVGGS & cUBL
True
Values
FdñUedñ PFIedS
d_; •__(631 Pgrl Avgr<g
VnnC 1 S- BCilrf & cl<m °nnCog. I csylrt & St, eilCs
MgrT. Slok S<Ct. oiglrgf, Vif PsCog $ 
cay.T Slok S<Ct. oiglrgf, Vif PsCog $ 
WamgrT. Jva-PCgog eiath
S<Ct. eiglrgf, Vif PsCog $
OSWALD WERNER &
Telephones6400. East 555
,00 ta 
,25 ta
2,50; Mgv PsCog $1,00 
1,50; Mgv PsCog $ .75
2,50 ta $3.00; Mgv PsCog $1,25
SONS COMPANY
lyg, lyg,
To Arms!
“Now listen, girlie, you’ve been wondering what makes me feel so good lately; whence this store of quivering energy; this keenness of brain; this sparkle in me eye. My dove, there could be but one answer —
The Perfect Tobacco for Pipe and Cigarette
ttTux” touches the spring that releases the punch—the live wire energy—the get-there spirit.
Smoke “Tux” for solid enjoyment, too-—for the 
mellow richness and delicate fragrance of choice c<sp
ley, freed from harshness and “bite” 
by the original “Tuxedo Process.’*
You can smoke “Tux” all day 
long, Cn you like, and get a new 
pleasure and satisfaction out of 
every pipeful.
YVU eAM cUY JUXdñV dVdFYWBdFd
Convenient, glassine wrapped, £* 
moisture-proof pouch . . . OC
Famous green tin with gold 
lettering, curved to fit pocket
In Tin Humidors, 40c and 80c 
In Glass Humidors, 50c and 90c
THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY
10o
S
ERVING Banquets and 
Parties is a feature quite 
apart from the general run 
of hotel business. We have 
specialized in this business so 
long, and are so thoroughly 
equipped, you are sure of satis­
faction.
Monongahela House
J. B. KELLEY, Manager 
SmCthnCgif lrf Wltgs St.,, PCtt.I<sbh
GFVGAM eVMPAMY
JEWELERS & 
SILVERSMITHS
WVVñ SJFddJ 
eVF, 6th AVdMUd
PIJJScUFGB, PA,
Bell Phone 3245 Grant
ANDREW G. WIRTH
cVVKcIMñIMG
cCrfCrb an MlblzCrg. lrf FgICrfCrb 
an caak. l SmgoClity
109-111 ugfgsli Stsggt, Masth.Cfg
PIANOS and ORGANS SHEET MUSIC CUT RATE
H. A. BECKER
MUSIC HOUSE
EVERYTHING KNOWN IN MUSIC
Headquarters for Band and Orchestra 
Instruments, Music and Supplies
601 OHIO ST., CORNER OF MIDDLE. N. S.
Bell Phone Cedar 2797 P. & A. 952-A
PHONOGRAPHS ARTISTIC REPAIRING
Mgiiar MltCarli clrk
5 10-514 Smithfield Street 
409-413 Fifth Avenue
Capital, Surplus and Profits 
$9,000,000
EX-FACULTY MEMBERS.
Mr. Shirley L. Mason, acting in­
structor in English at the M. M. C. S 
left last week for West Lafayette, 
Ind., where he will do entomological 
work in the government laboratory 
at Purdue. Miss Elizabeth Nicker­
son is doing graduate work in House­
hold Economics at Teacher’s Col­
lege, Columbia.
CARNEGIE DAY
Continued from Page 1 
ance of the student symphony or­
chestra of the Department of Music 
of the School of Applied Design.
The second observance of “Carne­
gie Day’’ was held in Carnegie Music 
Hall on November 23rd, 1914, the 
principal speaker of the occasion be­
ing Dr. Frank J. Goodnow, President 
of Johns Hopkins University. Dr. 
Goodnow had but recently returned 
from a Government commission in 
China, and in his address vividly con­
trasted the results of oriental educa­
tion with the methovfs now in use in 
Europe and America.
The third observance of “Carnegie 
Day,” November 23rd and 24th, 1915, 
was marked by more elaborate cere­
monies than usual, due to the fact 
that it commemorated the eightieth 
birthday of the Founder, and the fif­
teenth anniversary of the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology. Commem­
orative bronze medals were made, and 
given to both the guests and the stu­
dents.
Two hundred delegates from var­
ious universities, colleges and scien­
tific bodies, came to Pittsburgh to be 
the guests of the Institute of Tech­
nology on this occasion. They in­
spected the schools during the after­
noon of the 23rd, and were tendered 
a banquet bv the trustees in the even­
ing in the Hall of Architecture at Car­
negie Institute; some three hundred 
local guests were aiso present. Ad­
dresses were made by Mrs. Ella Flagg 
Young, Superintendent of Public 
Schools of Chicago, Mr. Charles M. 
Schwrb. Mr. Edward A. Robinson, Di­
rector of the Metropolitan Museum 
of Art, New York, and Dr. Charles 
Sumner Howe, President of Case 
School of Annlied Science. Follow­
ing the banouet, the guests were taken 
to the School of Applied Design to 
witness a masque and ball by the stu­
dents, representing scenes from the 
Court of Emperor Charlemagne. The 
events of the second dav of the cele­
bration were the formal address on 
Andrew Carnegie at the Music Hall 
in the morning, by Dr. Henry H. Prit- 
^ett. President of the Carnegie Foun- 
^tion, ?nd the performance of Mo- 
Upre’s “TartuflFe’’ in the theater of 
fV,e Design School in the afternoon by 
t^e students of the Department of 
Dramatic Arts.
Having; proven its purpose through 
t^ree observances, “Carnegie Day” 
now become one of the annual 
r-<=rts in the calendar of Tech’s cus­
toms.
DR. J. ALVIN ORR, OF 1ST U. P. 
CHURCH. NORTH SIDE. WILL AD­
DRESS THE Y. M. C. A. SUNDAY, 
2:30 P. M., IN THE CLUB ROOM OF 
THE WEST DORM. SUBJECT, 
“OUR UNSEEN ALLIES.”
The football committee of the Uni­
versity of Pennsylvania has such im­
plicit confidence in the ability of Bob 
Folwell, that it not only has appointed 
him as the representative of the Red 
and Blue on the football rules commit­
tee, but also as trainer for the 1916 
eleven. Folwell has had broad experi­
ence as a coach as well as a trainer, 
for while he was at Pennsylvania he
not only was captain of the football 
eleven, but also won an intercollegiate 
wrestling championship and scored in 
the intercollegiate track and field 
championships in the hammer throw.
At the University of Chicago a mous­
tache race has been started, with fifty 
Seniors entered.
Harvard is to have a swimming 
pool.
