Men must be a,t liberty to 
say in print whatever they bave in mind to say, pro* vided it wrongs no one. ^ 
—CHARLES A. DANA
Today’s Editorials
A Golden Opportunity 
On Trial 
Let’s Prime the Pump 
Christmas Recess
Is I
utyv I >-
mp ! ,
s I
VOL: 29, NO. 13CARNEGIE I INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, JAN. 8 1935
Sororities 
In Art School 
¡Close Rushing 
pext Sunday
"Ea li Sorority is Limited **5 To Three Functions;
¡1 Dates Arranged
«PERIOD OF SILENCE 
|JEGINS ON JAN. 13
A Rushees Must Answer 
1 B ds by Jan. 16; Rules ^ 
I L iforced by Council
-rbe rushing season for lour 
¡lyLororilies in the College of Fine 
»l£uls. Alpha Kappa Psi, Beta PI, 
PifieUi Tau Lambda, and Gammp d^Qomnisi Gamma • will. close next fcftjgunday evening at midnight, . at ?;''.\.|iich time the “silence period” oi <v??(l,ree days will begin. The silence '’vliteriod will end at 4:30 o’clock ^Wednesday, January 16. Before K^fi.-SO Monday afternoon at the ^"-ginning of “silence period,” rorities will write bids to } girls they desire . to pledge. jC answers of the rushees should e ready Tor the sororities Wednes­day »f the same week at 4:30«i-.jock.
Rushing in the Collegp of Fine jf|Arts was formally opened last ^Thursday. A non-rushing, inter- ifsororlty tea was held last Wednes­day for the purpose of acquainting nfeach sorority with the rushees. raEach sorority is limited to three v’llUDcUone. The choice of dates for ?Jthe rushing formals was automatic, ;a rotating inversely as they were jJIasl year.Gamma Gamma Gamma and Beta
srtaln rusheeB „..I the Hotel S- SAIpha Kappa Psi has arranged | dance at the Chatterbox, William IPenn Hotel. Other functions to he i by the sororities this week include teaf, tea dances, and ibulTet suppers. 1
The Intersorortty Council, which icontrols all sorority rushing and »pledging urges that the following niles be strictly heeded:
than $100 should be spent'by each .sorority to'cover rushing: expenses-T?-;.?1
There should be no com1- icatlon whatever during the pe- lod of silence.
Any violation of the rushing rules may be subject to line.
Printing Lecture 
Slated for Mon.
Direct Color Photography 
Subject of Union Talk
Dr. Alexander Murray will deliv- • a lecture on Direct Color Pho­tography next Monday at 3:30 in the Carnegie Union.
I This is the fourth lecture in the Typothetae series sponsored by llhe Department of Printing.
I A large^ number of invitati have been sent oufc. The lecture Is open to the public. Not only will (he subject be of interest to print­ers hut to physiciats, chemists, and artists.
Dr. Murray is research chemist and clxtaf cf the pUotomoehanleaJ department of .the Eastman Kodak Company of Rochester, N. Y.
Included iu. Dr. Murray’s talk «111 be a resume oi present efforts to standardize ] colors.
Prof. David Gustafson, head of the Department. of Printing, will; chaii of the session.
Sefgt. Livellerà 
Is Transferred
Sergeant Bartholemew M. Livel­lerà, Department of Military Sci­ence and Tactics, is being •'trans­ferred to Fort George Meade, Maryland.
Following his enlistment in the World War Sergeant Livellerà was transferred to Fort •Monmouth in Now Jersey. Me accepted a posi­tion in the Military Department in
inerly served in the radio division or - the ' Tiilrd'- Corps ‘at Daltiwiort;He has been on active duty as radio sergeant for tlxe Marluo Corps in Central. America.
Time Limit, Extended 
For Thistle Pictures
, at' the parry- Studios,-- -AH -es which are taken now 'will bo arranged in a special- section the end of the senior section. 
Portraits taken before the Christ­mas recess have been forwardedto the Canton Engraving Company -Jt-Canton, r...............hato plates.
Arrangements for picture sit wigs may be made at the “Y'’ of- lice any noon from 12:30-rl:30 unM oanuarv 15.
A.l members of the Thistle staff •morrow night at-7:30 i o£^e \C<vraygie<Tar-
*111 Jïieet I to thetan.:
Featured Entertainers for Soph HopJunior, Senior 
Electrical Eng. 
Attend Forum
Mid-winter A. I. E. E. 
Conference B e g i n-s .!¦ 
This Morning "
H. CORNING HEADS 
LOCAL DELEGATION
Hop this Friday.
Paul Specht Scheduled 
To Play at Soph Hop 
In Thistle Hall Friday
Orchestra Twice Played 
At Inauguration Ball . 
In Washington
TICKETS WILL BE 
$1.75 PER COUPLE
Modernistic Color Scheme 
In Black, Silver Planned 1 
For Annual Dance
______iT, will be held in ThistleHall on Friday evening, January 11, from 0 to 1 o'clock. Paul Specht and his internationally -famous thirteen piece-orchestra have been engaged to play for the dance.Tickets for the dance may be secured from one of tK© members
Payi Specht’a most recent ap­pearance in Pittsburgh was for the Intercollegiate Ball during the holi­day season. He has played fre­quently in college circles. ,Mi*. Specht brings to Carnegie the same orchestra which played for both the Tnaugural Ball df^the, present administration, r'4nd‘ the Hoover-Curtis President^! Inaug­ural, Charity.1. Bail...at Washington,L} c. ¦•¦His stop at Carnegie'. Is' made possible by a tour he is ihaking to Harrisburg where he wlU'b^en-
_ ....................Specht himself isone of two dance orchestra leaders mentioned in America’s "Who’s Who in Music."
Hold Contests 
For Arts Ball 
Decorations
Original Ideas for Designs 
Posters and Cpstumeis 
May Win Tickets
Tickets to the Arts Ball, valued at thirly-Bix dollars will be award­ed by .¿he Arts Ball Committee ' the winners of the design, c tume, and poster design conte which are being conducted -
ment Jn .the. d^I&r^and.dççorative^ competition were submitted today. Frederick Crocker '35 is chairman of the committee which will sélect the wlhners:First prize winners for the de­sign contest, will receive two toi dollar tickets admitting one co pie jto the Arts Ball. ‘isists of one., {pur dollar ticket. ?he winner of the for the most original < be selected by Prof. Harold ($eo- gheean. Miss. Elizabeth M. Schra­der,-Marcia-E</LeelyM’3fcand-'^^^ man of Arts Ball, James H. Me- Naughton ’36• AlJiert O. Jenkins ’35 and ftado- lin Vautrinot ^will judge the posters advertising the ball.Awards for the poster and co tume contest will, be the same as ( .for the design contest. First prize 1
Students to-Present Papers 
On Operating Problems 
Of Student Branch
ing at 9:30. with the inspection trip
Harold J. Corning '35, is
states. Prol'. George' McPorter.mnsellor of the Carnegie branch and Chairman of Counsellors for the district, is also in. attendance.
Following a luncheon given by the Bell Telephone Company of Pennsylvania at 1:30, will be the afternoon session, at which stu­dents will present papers on "Problems Encountered in Operat­ing a Student Branch of the Aroer- can Institute of Electrical Engi­neers." After the papers have been read, Mr. Coming will preside c discussion by the chairmen of
Following the dinner, which will be held in -the.second floor auditor­ium of the Chamber of .Commerce Building, will be speeches by Pres­ident Johnson, Prot. A. M. "Wilson, University of Cincinnati, vice-
Prof. Johnson will speak on the “Relation of Colleges to the Amer­ican Institute of Electrical Engl*, neer-s” while Prof. Wilson has “A. I. E. E. Environment” as the topic of his address.The- conference is part of a pr.o- gram/for thè promotion of, actlvlr ties • of ' electrical •eaglne'érfiTg" sttfc
People You Ought to Know...
By Clitton P. Bauteile
Max Hannum, Basketball Mentor
Carnegie’,1? Max Hannum is without doubt the most colorful 
of Pittsburgh’s basketball coaches. He has never played the 
game which he is coaching for the third successive season.
When Prank Hogan gave up coaching Carnegie’s quintets 
in the spring.of 1932 “Buddy’1 Overend east about in vain for 
a substitute. There was none. That is, there was none until he remembered Max Hannum, ptilH*Uclty director for the Athletic As­sociated.
For twelve.years Max had been officiating at basketball games. He
“but I wouldn’t want it as a
Tliere" is too much strain." Max is quite
Max „Hannum of hls^present 
forthVentirëbasY^lbalt''tràlhing
period this year-
__ ______ .nged with theWllligs, strong local inde­pendent team, merely to give the developing Carnegie team practice against the most powerful opposi? tion available.
Two objectives mark the present basketball campaign. .First, ‘ of 'course to dei‘5atT' ii possible, the city rivals. Second, to win the championship of th-2 Eastern Inter­collegiate ..Conference.
Unfortunately the newspapers built the Carnegie team up to the skies before the club ever played a ft-iine. The predictions, .of...in».:, provement were based upon the ad­dition of last year’s tall and clever treshman team to the varsity anriad. The oaners did not take In­to account the fact that there is a tremendous . gap between high school- freshman and college ball. 
¿ Team .Hapdlcappsdby PublicityCoach Humum
larly pleased with the high rating of-the downtown scribes. Max.be-. Heved .that the team would start slowly, and that it would reach'Its' peak about mid-season. ’ The pre­season build-up has placed the
game this year. Now he is in ttye. hospital with scarlet fever and may be out of the lineup foi
Music Dept. Gives 
Concert Sunday
Bach, Massenet, Limit Range 
Of Classical Selections
.With a program ranging histori­cally -from" Bach '.-sthrough--- the classic composers to Massenet, the music department of Carnegie .will give its next Sunday evening
the public being invited.The numbers and the performers are as follows:
1. Mendelssohn . .Allegro moder-
Violin and Piano, 0p/30, No. 2 Allegro con brio
Cathryn Law. Massonet..................... Aria,"Vision fugitive" (Herodlade). Roger Ingham. Be&thoven  ........... PianoSonata, op. 28 (Pastorale)
James Miller 
¦Concerto for Violin.and Oboe
Matthew Frey, Earl Wild
ill not see many minutes of action, he is bothered with aches, pains, a cold and a general run-down condition. • --Kevertheless,. to XlonrJ). iJa-UTWrn and to the team Jtseir, tire develop- ment’to date has been satisfactory, despite the fact that the great pre- campaign predictions have fallen
‘Y’ Cabinet 
Holds Luncheon
Carnegie
Tartan
QuarterHour
’The Carnegie- Tartan Quarter Hour's time has been changed to Wednesday evening, 7:15. The sta­tion is WWSW.The Wee Scotch Lassie will slug .-3sUev.fi.4.t.P-eloy«rl,'..and,.,'June Jn January” from Bin*? Crosby’s new picture, “Here Is M,y Heart.”The guest stars tomorrow night will present a comedy skit. The prlmcpals are Polly Rowles- 'so. john Kennedy ra6. and Vincent
The first luncheon meeting the new year for the student cabi-. net of the Carnegie Branch'of the .Y..M,..C..-4...w.H..b.9 held ¿.t... 'tomorrow at the Carnegie it 
This meeting la being helc the purpose- of making plans for the formation of this year’s f man "Y” cabinet,According to the present plans of the *'Y” cabinet, the series of evening discussion meeting at the various fraternity houses on the Carnegie campus will be continued in January and February.
Students Urged to Vote 
In Undergraduate foil
Students at Carnegie are urged not to neglect to cast their ballots in the undergraduate' Peace Poll which is being cònductèd' Tjj thè
dergradiiates throughout the try. this .week. -. The -results :ot the poll will be pu^li^ed In the ar
Beads Junior PromDrama Dept. 
Will Present 
“Cradle Song”
Presentation Begins Wed. 
Six Performances. 
Are Scheduled
Engineering, who has been named
Junior Prom 
Arrangements 
kre Begun
William Holiday General 
). Chairman; Friday, 
Feb. 8 Is Date
‘been-, chosen chairman of the < inlttee In chargc of the Men’f . Prom to be held Friday, ^February 8,
Mr. .Holiday, a member of the •Delta Upsllon social fraternity, le president of the Junior class In the College of Engineering. He )s a member of the. varsity swimming team, Student Council, and Delta Skull, men’s junior horn is also chairman of the student assemblies and a member of Scab­bard and Blade.
The Chairman of the prom this year will have the distinction of loading the traditional grand :This honor alternates each year between the presidents of th$ jun­ior classes of the Coiicge of Eti- ¦giireerlDg anii ijbllege-ofii'ine-Arts;
ser; Orchestra, Richard Hammond and Rea Horner; Publicity, Irving Gruber, j. Scott, Charles, and John Provost; Programs, Robert Croyle and Harry Shannon; Tickets, James Latta and George KIttredge; Chaperones, George -Rial and Charles Gable.The Prom takes place between semesters, when all -final examina­tion's are over. It. Is not restrict­ed to junior class members only, but is open to ^hc entire school. The committee will announce the place ao4 orchestra at a lAter date.
Military Dept. 
Gives Chapel
Major General Malone 
To Deliver Address
Major-General Paul B. Malone will speak on the subject of “Lead­ership1’ at the regular 12:30 chapel period next Tuesday in the Little Theater. Major Malone Is at pres­ent Commanding General of the Third Corps Area, with head-' quarters at Baltimore. Maryland.
Major Malone won a number of military honors in past
Spanish-Anierlcan War. In ceedlng years he was an Instructc In'-Chemlstry at the' Military Aca emy. During the World War he was in charge of the Citizens' Training Camps, with headquar­ters In France and the United
Major Malone is also author of a number of articles and books, chiefly concerning West Pofnt and the life of a cadet at military in<
Coming Events
Wednesday-^
Trustees Investigate
Plan ior Activities 
Building on Campus
PROF. E. HICKMAN 
COACHES PLAYERS
Play Written in 1911 Portrays 
Scenes Behind Walls Of 
Dominican Convent
'The Cradle Song,’’ by G. Mar­tinez Sierra,' will be presented by the Department of- Drama in the Little Theater for six evening per­formances beginning tomorrow night, and a matinee rcrfornvanco on Friday at 3:30. Prof. E. W. Hickman Is directing the play, this being his first production of the year.
Simplicity Is the keynote of “The Cradle Song," a piny that Is primarily Catholic In Inspiration
11b character study,- shows how the Church, which in the popular mind is supposed to lead to uniformity of type and thought, has produced such amazingly -different charac­ters os St. Francis of Assisi, St. Thomas Aquinas, nnd'St. Ignatius Loyola.
Although written in “TheCradle Song” did not bccome well- known in America until Eva Le- GalUene and her company pro­duced it in this country several years ago.The cast for the production will Include: Joanna — Patti Llttell;Kathryn Bauer; Teresa — Jane Witmer, Virginia Martin; Prioress —Dorothy .Nfumann, Emma Suess; VlcareBs—-Lorna Gottdlner, Marie Nolr; Mistress of Novices—Eliza­beth Levlnger, Elizabeth Cashdol- lar; Marcella—Mary Lou Mehler, Portia Matthews; Marla—Barbara Kocyan, Marian Richards; Segrario —Helen Deike, Barbara Burton; Inez—Leonore Blsslnger, -Elizabeth Moore; Tomera—Bettlnh Cohen, Ida Blckley; Antonio—Regis Joyce, Ralph Naaon; Doctor—Roy M1net,
Sophomores Fete 
Big Sisters Wed
Wip. Present Program of
•¡Skits and ^Readings
The Sophomore .class of Margaret Morrison will ho]'d;'art'ea.tomorr'bw afternoon In ' Margaret Morrison
In the Freshman class last year are invited 
The Sophomore class officers are In charge of the affair. A pro­gram, consisting of reading and ft skit, will he presented by Mary Lambert, Kathryn Flynn, Frances Campbell, Doris Dietrich and Helen Stulen,Those who plan to attend are r& quested to sign on the notice post­ed on the bulletin hoard.
Assembly Speaker
Branson DeCou, nationally-known trsveloQUe leoturer. who will ad< dress.the General Assembly today.
Travelogue on 
“Old Mexico 
Given Today
Address' Will be Given 
Today in Fine Arts,
. Little Theatre
win take place li.... ____ ..joteiArts, at 11:30,
.The address will bo Illustrated with masterpieces of photography. Among the views
Cortes—the* volcanoes, Popo'catdpetl and Ixacclhuatl—the Are moun­tains of eternal snow, the National lottery, a bull tight,. Mexico's Honeymoon Place and Dlvorcc Mill, and many other famous Mex-
All.the material that Mr. De Con preseilts ,...has been collected by himself on personal tours through­out tho world. Each talk he gives Is Illustrated by • over 300 color
pairi.^tpgr:"
Since 1B14 Mr. De Cou haB pre­sented his “Dream Pictures." He has had an average of over two hundred engagements each year, two-thirds of whlcl\havo been re engagements. ^Mr. De Cou’s presentations at­tract larger 'gatherings from year to year because they are so au­thentic and supremely artistic,- yet' devold- of • sensationalism-'and ostentatious adventures. Another factor for the success of these travelogs is claimed' to be the ab­solutely human and natural de­livery with which Mr. De Cou pre­sents each narrative.
List of Fraternity Pledges Grows
As Plebes Return from Vacation
Fifty-Eight More Men 
Join Houses Making 
Total Number 122......
1:00—Sophomore Big Sister Tea, Margaret Morrison Recreation
3:30—“Cradle Song”—Little The-
5:00—Sophomore ' Hop, Paul ;-Special's Orchestra — Thistle
Senior Interviews — Bureau of
I -261. ; Industries
Fifty-four additional men have 
pledged to seven fraternities since 
the close fo rushing season. The 
total for this semester is 116 com­
pared with a total at the same time 
last year of 176.Most of the men desired to re­turn home at Christmas and talk things over with their parents be­fore making a decision.
ceotage of the in the dormitorl 
Rules Are "• jVtiibiflg- rules • tiratr-we; this past season are advanced by 6ome as being superior to those of previous years. It is claimed that
thus have been able to^tnake better decision as to the men that they wish to associate with.Other people are of the opinion that rushing season was too long and that the men tired out.before thfcsieasqn.wa$_over-. Besides they
dinartfy they would not have visit­ed.Pledge List- The- additional-- pledges- - arc. as follows: .Alph« SUnn* Phi — Prank Ank«ney. George H. Wlnitow, Hnrmon H. Cratabr, 
Alpha Tfto OiK|i—Myron
-ArhTk»U PI-
Me n
__L_J
«wird E. 
..Ifcoma-.'H. Kariitor.
Ä 5..ÎÂ&
Dr. Jones Is Host 
- To Tau Bèta Pi
This meeting, sponsored by Dr. and Mrs. Jones, Is an annual af­fair. The entertainment is to be furnished by a' group of faculty and students. Prof. Sunmer B. Ely, associate professor of Power Engineering, will he on hand withhis deck of cards to perform ......of his usual tricks, and he, together with Prof. 'Willibald Trlnks, head of the Department of Mechanical Engineering, will also' play"a"piano
Gamma chapter of Tau Beta Pi a expected to be present.
Wllllrurt F. Read, nnd
Vera«“C»prlnswr.a c! " Arthut^C.^FWUnd., F
!iKaij>»r'Dolü Witt—-i Charles H. Stouìt.
lCÏyde*H.8Shànnoii wciicr, william H. M«lunor,.Gu ty. Jr., William M. Elchle&y. <Board. John M.. " LawTçnœ, 'I
R wSlwrffV, ^Hocurn,J*TH6«- Mr Phiilips; - Gcome-R.- EdwÄrf S. Gleason, -Bob Mellon, tlfim Irwin, Eu gena Connelly. HaroldW. Liggett, T)onnld B. Zclenka, Harold A. Lorcnz. j«nw« H. suUtenand, and Ralph
PM1 Kipp*—Wllll*m J. Miller. JoeophR- FeMmtT«*. ; Fi
“ÄBc
;U - W. Solèa
Investigation of Matter 
To Determine Line 
Of Later-Action
ENDOWMENT FUNDS 
TO FINANCE PROJECT
Expenditures for Innovations 
Considered Toward Goul 
Of 4 Million Dollars
Ing the conversion of the Browii . " must Into an activities bulldjng a committee for further invest/- . cation. This action was taken .tit ... the Inst meeting of the Board. \ ••••.;
proposed plan for a student-built clock tower. In Its place, a pro- : posai was drawn up to petition tho- Bonvd of Trustees to finance’ tho
headdintrtei's with funds already collected townrd tho "two-for.qne” endowment goal.
Under the "Lwo-for-one” policy»V ^ nil funclH that nre collected and ex-.-Sv;, pended toward Improving the Car-' negle campus and buildings mny; bo considered toward the four-mi{- Uqn-dollnr endowment goal. It v
a Isltor setting forth the i>$ed and . plans for obtaining a new activities... building was sent to Dr. Charles WnLklns, acting president, who, in turn, presented tho enso to thel Bonvd of Trustees.. Although there was no direct op­position to the plair on the part, of the Board, several members' re­fused to give It their endorsement
also some question as to whether, the conversion of tho Brown House into an activities building could^bey-
referred the matter to "an loveSffga*' tlon committee and will' take tio further action until a report on the- findings of the committee is Te- .
Students Convene. 
'During Vacation
Carnegie Delegates Attend1 
Tenth N.S.F.A. Congress
Delegates of the collegiats. yout&V..-:;: 
of the United States met In Boston: 
durlng the recent Christmas vaca*‘ 
tlon and discussed, In the space oC ^^ 
four days, contemporary subjects; ! 
ranging from fraternity relations ' - 
and the honor system to the NRA* 
FERA, AAA, and C1E. The occa- . 
slon was. the tenth annual congress 
of the NSFA, to which Bostoii Dni- V 
-veralty was host. 'William Becker 
and Thomas Dana, president, soil, 
vice president of , Student Council, ; • 
were Carnegie delegates.
One of the most Umely subjects. , 
upon which resolutions were passed ; 
was the question of the. subsidiza-:: . - 
tlon of athletes. Discussion by . 
delegates miggested that “'there iar^ 
not a university in' this country'!;: 
that does not subsidize athletes.^'v;- 
It was the concensus of opinion. - ': 
that' there should' 'he “open'subv'..• .R|d|2atlon..qf^coltep:e athletes ag^a-:;,.... remedy ito present day”conditions?'^ This opinion was further qualified-: v by the amendment that "open subr; sldlzatlon should have 6et qualifica­tions, namely—that a.man ought:.:.:.: to be of good character and a good - .:
be handled officially through th»^'
elgn countries.”
Other resolutions discussed' '.or - • voted on by the NSFA. which, are. •) /?f..p.oss.ih)ft...Jj)ie.resL or import ta
• “That the NsPA through •• Its : • Chairman appoirft a committee ..to:.', investigate organizations giving.
Goodrich Manager :: : 
Interviews Seniors
' Taylor, tnauager of^
distributed before ChrlBtmas^ to Mr. Watterson at tho BureaLotv. flee at once. ~as this information; li'j- necessary.::,in plannin'g fut^r©: !»?.^

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTAN; TUESDAY. JANUARY 8, 1935
QTtie Carmene 2Tartau
PHONE MAYFLOWER :
MCEA EdUgr--------------------S«
_________WILLIAM LANDSBERGer__________JULIAN F. MUNSTER
...JEROME HANSON
»r________HERBERT i..MARGARET GRIFFIN
-DUDLEY D. PENDLETON
REPORTERS:
SPORTS STAFF:. Addison Gilmoi
CIRCULATION STAFF: Albert 1
A Golden Opportuity ;T
HE'advisabllity of transforming the Brown 
House into a temporary activities building 
-has been laid before the Board of Trustees for 
'consideration.
' Without unduly exaggerating, we sincerely 
believe this project to be the most worthy that 
has ever originated from the student body.
' Coincidentally, last year at this same time, 
the Clock Tower project was presented to the 
. Board and was greatly favored. Compared to 
the proposed activities buildings, the Clock 
./Tower had so little to offer in actual advan­
tages tbat It will be a complete surprise If the 
¦Board does- not look upon the present project 
” with similar favor.
The chief argument, as we see It, against 
proceeding with the .remodeling of the Brown 
House Is that It will be foolish and unneces­
sary to sink money into a temporary structure 
in view of the fact in ten years, when the Four 
Million Dollar Fund is realized, a permanent 
building can be erected.
- But In- the life of a university or college, 
-ten years is a long span—it represents two and 
a half generations of students. 'Within those 
.ten years at Carnegie approximately 5,000 stu- 
’dents, not Including tliose already enrolled, 
...are destined to benefit, by this temporary 
' building, If It goes through.
Ko one contends that we need an activities 
building—that Is widely realized. It was in* 
deed a happy thought that hit on the Teraodel- 
.•Sng of the Brown. House, because tbat offers a 
.likely means of providing. for tbat need. It 
;inay not be Ideal for the .purpose, but It is 
readily adaptable and would prove Quite sat­
isfactory.
, • - In short, here is a golden opportunity for 
' campus betterment; It woulU be a gross error 
- .not to take advantage of It.
On TrialF
RATERNITY pledges, as they begin their 
apprenticeship, are bound: to fall heir to ex­
periences quite opposed to those;-that were 
theirs as rushees. Instead of being catered 
''.to and sought after, It becomes, their task as
• Stumble neophytes to cater to and seek after.
' This transition may be difficult to accept;
:;rat. least.it.will be somewhat, disconcerting at 
'first. The good sport, however, will accept 
-.that which falls to his lot. In thre spirit In 
• Which it is Intended and proceed t'o enjoy his 
pledgeshlp. Although progressive fraternities .
• -generally are much less severe with their 
iV'piedgea than in'pasty ears andhave to- x large--' 
; .extent abolished corporeal punishment as a'
.means of Inspiring certain stubborn novices 
7',tb'toe • the mark, there still, will be a few 
. 'pledges who will resent the treatment they 
’.receive.
X--v; For the latter it is necessary to point out 
'.'that, essentially, the duties of pledgeshlp and 
^ithe; ceremonies of -initiation operate, to weld 
/•'.the newcomer to .the group. It is a period of 
, -irIal during which either party to the pledge- 
"./individually or mutually may discover a lack 
: ';.ot eBBential barmony ,ln aims, ideals, or fel- 
'iowshlp’. If such is the case, either may with* 
.-draw from the obligation.
:^"/*That this objective of the pledge period may 
.achieved, It Is needful for all pledges to ac- 
icfept theiT. positions as such gracefully and to 
fulfill their obligations honestly. Only through 
having thus: won their spurs, so to speak, can 
¡• they, upon becoming members in their chosen 
fraternity, truly sense the deeper meaning of 
’./having become one within the bonds.
Let's Prime the Puujp - -
' .y^ONGRESS’ greatest problem in the coming 
v se alon Is deciding between a balanced 
budget and a large scale public spending pol­
icy as the means of achieving recovery. Must 
i-iyre. continue -to spend billions .for work relief, 
¦-or- must we restore confidence by a balanced 
:• budget?
:v..;-Th09Q who argue for the balanced budget 
^claiin'Xhai 'tUo* continuation-of such tremen­
dous deficits as we are no.w piling up are un- 
rvdermining the confidence ' of private enter­
prise and will soofi result.In national bank- 
'^ruptcy. Upon what do- they base, such opin* 
; *i6ne? • Is^private enterprise Teally losing con- 
' “This seeme tardly; true in -face of 
? ,thq huge sums of• money recently spent.by the 
railroads for rolling-stock. the steel companies 
formant equipment, the automobile industry 
-for plant renovation and industry/ In general 
for durable goods used In production. And 
opproachlng bankruptcy?. Obviously,
cent of our national wealth. ^-Would you feel 
that you were becoming Insolvent lf-yo.u-had a. 
dollar and owed som.etiody eight cents? - Prob­
ably not even if your -debt was twice as great. 
When government bonds are soiling above par, 
and yleiding-less interest than they ever did, 
how can anyone say that we are rapidly ap­
proaching bankruptcy?
Now, what can public spending do to aid re­
covery? To answer that we must go to the 
foot of the causes of a depression. .In good 
times all businesses ate earning money, since 
the total quantity of money remains practically 
the same, somebody must be losing the money 
the businesses earn. The unsuspecting vie* 
tints are none other than the ninety per cent 
of us, who make a living as employes and 
farmers. Soon our money Is gone, and we 
.have uo more to give to business. This is de­
pression. Now somehow, there must be a re­
distribution of wealth before recovery can oc- 
The government, by spending huge sums 
of money, which naturally Is the rich man's 
money, redistributes wealth- and starts the 
business cycle back on the way to boom times.
In addition to uldlng recovery, a public 
spending policy gives relief to millions of our 
needy, not only financially, but also morally. 
The spectacle of a man unable to suport bis 
family Is pathetic, the spectacle of a man who 
wants to work, but is forced to stay idle and 
subside on charity Is worse.
So, let's prime the pump, then later we may 
be able to balance the budget. If the pump 
does not start working soon, a balanced bud­
get this year will not mean a balanced budget 
next, or for a long time. |
Christmas RecessA
T THE close pf every Christmas recess 
many students desire to have a certain 
change made for tbe coming Christmas 
vacation. - They do not desire a change in the 
length, but a change In the time of this vaca­
tion.
Many of the students who live out of town 
'e forced to leave .their homes on New 
Year's - Day or sooner In order to arrive on 
time for their January 2 classes. Not' only 
this, but It seems that Carnegie students start 
their vacation sooner, and end It'earlier than 
most, other colleges and universities in the 
country. This, of course, eliminates the time 
that one is aWe to be with his friends at home/ 
It will also be noticed that <he gap between 
the Thanksgiving and Christmas recesses Is 
made shorter than . that between Christmas 
and Easter. This change In date would not 
make a tremendous difference, however, it 
would be a step toward evening the time.
It Is thoroughly believed that since few, if 
any, difficulties would arise by changing tbe 
dates of Christmas vacation and more satisfac­
tion may be obtained, that It would be a very 
good step for those In power to take.
ISo E. Horizon
By Fentress Keuhn, Yale '33
In Washington today, the young college 
graduate 1s. being sought for useful Govern­
ment service. Since the present Democratic 
administration came into office there have 
been* literally thousands of- appointments 
made, of persons under thirty, to positions 6t 
responsibility and Importance.
One Yale graduate, not more than two years 
out of college lias just been sent to the Philip­
pine Islands, by-the Agricultural Adjustment- 
Administration-for a year’s study of the ques- 
t^pn of sugar production allocation. Another 
young man is attached in a clerical capacity 
to Ambassador William C. Bullitt's staff in 
Moscow, chosen, I understand, because of his 
knowledge of the Russian language, which lie 
studied as a hobby In college. In the Treasury 
Department young men are acting as aidesi to 
the various advisers and assistants to the Sec- 
retarsv In NTRA, a--Yale gradual«.of.the class 
of 1933 Is Executive Assistant' for one of the 
large industry divisions. Blackwell Smith, a 
twenty-nine year old lawyer, is Assistant Ad­
ministrator and Acting Chief Counsel of the 
NRA. This condition is tru-i inv almost all 
thé Government bureaus.
' Young people today are seeking Govern­
ment employment, not for financial reasons,. Irut because the opportunities for buslne.it.and 
professional training and for useful service are 
almost limitless. They are acting as aides to 
persons of experience and prominence, drawn 
from every occupation. The young man is 
placed In closer relationship and more direct 
contact with experienced leaders than could 
ever be the case in the first years of normal 
business service.
Most of these'young graduates .arrived in 
Washington armed with one or two character 
and ability references; the will to get a job, 
and a dogged determination that they would 
get work even if they had to sit in a depart­
mental personnel oflice. all summer to sell 
themselves. Most of them sooner or later se­
cured • appointments.
A' vltaUyimi»orlant iacLorin-tîiô-tnliid of t&a 
writer that should be considered in looking for any job Is that you, the average graduate will do anything even though It be work as a sixty dollar per month messenger, just to get working.' Once appointed matters of promo­tion, salary, and type of work performed will automatically take care of thomselves, depend­ing upon the drive, luck, and ability of the person involved.
The salaries paid Government workers are good except in the highest brackets, where they are shockingly inadequate for the charer ' r of work .involved. By that I r
and sacrifice demanded. An example is the
industry to work double the m eume enormous responsibilities for five hun­dred dollars a month.
to be paid from-sixty to three or four hundred dollars a month for bis services depending on his ability to perform. It makes in my opinion, .difference which-branch- of Govern-
Writers’ Row
, WINTER AFTERNOON
The snow, two days old, crunches under 
our feet as we start up the pipe line. 16 is 
a narrow path, perhaps four feet wide, up 
the side of a hill- On each side, tall black 
trees rh:e gauntly from the undisturbed ' 
snow. Overhead, the sky-ls a-hard brlght. blue. Thé atmosphere is so clear there seems to be no air at all. Everything stands out in sharp perspective as though
shift our sklls from shoulder to shoulder to keep our hands from getting stiff.- The. skiing will be feet today, for even though -, the pipe line has not been used before, the snow is becoming bard and ley. When we . reach the top of our climb, we hurry about the business of tightening straps. The first first trip down is the best of all. The . burst of pure freedom tbat comos with that first plunge can never be remembered . or vicariously experienced. With a shout to clear the track, we take off, first slowly, then as we reach the steeper slope, faster and faster, racing between flying trees with the cold wind In our eyes, our whole being concentrated on controlling the
than silent speed. The only sound on the whole earth is the soft brushing of skll9 on snow. We are completely' alone, de­tached from any life we have ever lived. The present moment, the glorious- intoxi­cation of tbe speed and the eold, is all tbat
we. stand vlcto-' rlous. Our bodies tingle between our rush­ing blood and the piercing cold. Our
Then—let’s do it again! Let’s ski till It’s dark! Let’s ski forever.
ELIZABETH WEST.
Apartments took bis feet down from his desk and turned around to look out of a vast window through which he could see what people were doing everywhere. A great, deal of noise. Issued from tbe apart­ments, and-he sighed. Trouble again. He stayed away from tbat vicinity as far as possible, but somehow always became ln- volved In people's troubles and In the end received the entire blame.
They were always* complaining about the building—the roof leaked, the gardens
tinual. Last week it was the Chinese laundryman and tbe Japanese acrobats, over a small plot of ground in the court which both claimed. Now it was a gang of naughty boys, who, calling themselves Nazis, persisted In breaking windows and throwing mud. The Austrian family on the third floor was very much up in arms over the affair, as constant sufferers from the attacks. They wouldn’t let their little boys play with the naughty gang, and so -more noise was added to the din—the cry­ing of discontented children who want to go out and piay. The landlord had often had to put families out for'just such noisy
Uncle Sam, willing, but blundering, forever trying to bring harmony into the building and help settle the troubles of all.
ings they were supposed to be—but they usually turned into free-for-all brawls. Uncle Sam. however, though all and sun­dry hated him ond talked loudly and dls" paringly about him across the back fence.
had .always thought his little world the nicest place there was. He looked upon himself as a .sort of god-father and guar­dian to all the families, and was glad to lend his little store to the French music teacher or the English cabby’s fat wife, al­ways confident that some day he'd get it back, and treasuring each worthless i. o.
to lead their own lives and be independent, inexperienced and -uncivilized though they were. He was going hungry for lack of money and when he asked for payment, as he did more frequently now, his debtors scoffed at him and played tricks oh him. Often lately, ho regretted bitterly the iriOttfey fi<i had-ào-rotì-ci tlie chtìdreti.ìo . buy nolsemakers the time the tenants had found the Deutchers troublesome. The landlord smiled wryly to think of it. And now. the Reutchers' Adolph had become leader of the Nazi gang and no one seeni* ^ed to do anything about it but scold. -,
Uncle Sam was ailing, too. He had in­ternal trouble and was nearly always in misery. He thought the work of caretaker was becomim? a little too heavy for him. but the landlord urged him to keep the po­sition, for he knew he would never get another janitor who would put up with as much as Sant did.
Thè' landlord was becoming genuinely ausry* He stood before the window tug-
scarred. Its floors scuffed, and things torn up by the roots or carried away bodily from the house with no at­tempt to replace them. Worst of all, ;
forgotten.
Former tenants had been more careful and quite respectful to the landlord, but these modern families scoffed at hint, re­fused to pay rent, and even thought It ..rafter.aniHslng.w.hen their.younger mem­bers threw mud on him as well as oh the' lowlier.
The Nazi question was coming to a head and any day now the landlord expected t
rest of the building would take sides t someone would get a bloody nose. Poor, stupid-Undo Sam, with all his trouble, would.no doubt insist, on sticking his oar in, and if any blood was to be shed, liis nose would be in the way of the first fist.
The landlord was now furious. Already sounds of strife were coming front the third floor and he could see Uncle Sam limping up from the basement to. make peace.
•‘Gabriel,’1 he said to bis 'agent,' ‘Tm'go-
have been quarreling over something. I'v stood It,long enough. I’ll settle It once . and for all In my own fashion.”
. Morning found the Globe Apartments . quiet; as death-and from" the .door knob . bung a.“To Let” v ' VIRGl
On •Second;
Thou!
Dudley D. Pendleton, Jr.
The Follies of 1934
Japan; .Tendering' Japan's de­
nunciation- of - the Washington 
Treaty to Secretary of State Hull, 
Ambassador Hirosi Satio put an 
eud to the first successful attempt 
which the world has seen to limit urmaments. Japan offered to scrap
naval strength, but .demanded parity with Eng­land and the United States in doing so.The United States and Great Britain* have refused to
conditions be­cause they feel
*1 Po^lleton give to Japan unchallenged supremacy in Asia with no possibility of a check by
tbe Pacific, tbere Is great danger that these will collapse too leaving us with the pleasant pros­pect of having an expensive arma­ment race on our bands.
Berlin: Krupp, .German “Mer­chant of Death,” reports modest profltB for the first time In many years. Funds will be used for em­ployee’s benefits and bonuses from 0 to S5 per cent will be given to members of the staff.
Parts: Thousands of foreignersre being forced to leave France unless they can prove themselvesIf-supportlng. Poles, Italians and ! among those most af- ,-s than 2&.000 German refugees bave flocked into France where they bave been received with varying degrees of enthusi­asm, .becauso many jobs formerly held by Frenchmen have passed Into the bands of tho newcomei
hands of tbe firing squad.There seems to be nothing quite so effective In combating fire
result of the latest Spanish revolution in which liberal forces pooled resources in a futile at­tempt to combat the fàclsm which they believed the new government foretold. Many of these have Idea, why they-, are being held or of what they are charged. The popu­lation of Spanish prisons has al-
At Home 
Louisiana: Senator Long In an­other of his speedy legislative ses­sions pushed through, two weeks ago, 33 more bills designed to put into his hands any odds' and ends of political power which slipped liis mind during the 'previous ses­sion. One bill which Boss Huey had explained in his three-minute- n-bill explanation as one involving financial arrangements for chil­dren who had to cross parish lines to attend school,-proved upon read­ing to bo one which put into his hands the hiring and firing of all slana school teachers, num­
bering more than 15,000.
and wounded
founds of having attacked a white
ional guardsmen ¿’orcf'.d to fire « volley into the hill­billy mob to disperse them. After the guards had retired to their canin, the mol) returned, broke in­to sheriff’s office, soaked it with gasoline and set fire to it.. Fire tien attempting to save the court- louse were aided bv rioters who •lit their lioses with axes and broke their ladders. Nothing was 
saved.• Says the Memphis Press-Sciml- tar: “The mob which burned thecourthouse was more logical than most mohs. They did not burn the prisoner; they burned, the courthouse ... A community where a mob rules has no need of a courthouse."
Pittsburgh:,.. Citizens, o find iipôn ènte »00.000 postolflce___ ... slot In which ,to depositletter with a simple three-cent
GOVERNMENT NEEDS COLLEGE TRAlNEO ADMINISTRATORS 
Syracuse University (MCEA)— 
A highly developed personnel serv* 
ice in all level? of government in 
tliè United States or chaos, were 
presented as alternatives for the 
future by Lewis Brownlow, former 
city .manager and public adminis­
tration expert, who recently ad­
dressed the faculty and students 
oi" ‘the" School- -of Citiicnship and 
Public Affairs.
Goyernntent administrators will in the future be chosen almost en­tirely .from among the college grad­uates, Mr. Brownlow believes. The demand for college-trained adminis­trators must Increase if the United :States;is to,cope successfully with .the. ccmplex^prc iblema.'of .modern!
Finally Within. Reach
The Skibo Hoi
We’ve been expecting It all along, but It’s nice to hfive It 
announced—Jayne Henderson Is flashing a solitaire, Glnny Llnn 
made known her intentions. Mr. and Mrs. Foller announced the 
engagement of Jane and ex-prexy Sborey Allan. Rita Pearsall 
came back from Connecticut with a Delt pin.
The Dragons and the D. U.’6 started off the holiday celebra­
tions by dances at the Chatterbox. Alpha Tbeta Sigma and 
Kappa Phi Delta, M. M. sororities, followed with dances at tbe 
Roosevelt Grill and the Chatterbox respectively. Tbe A. T. O.'s 
celebrated the New Year with a dance and midnight show theater
All those not In favor of a Bell Tower—please consult Chuck 
Slater. In twenty-five minutes he’ll convince you tbat you -owe 
it to the school.
Dorothy Davis of Tech and John Thomas of Pitt have an* 
nounced their engagement. However, J. Adrian Schlebel, known 
as “Jake” to his friends, decided to' do one better, so “ups and 
marries” Gladys Gateman of Ohio State. He passed out cigars to 
the fraternity on arrival after the vacation.
Carnegie was well—and not so well—represented at Motor 
Square Garden. Ernio Schleusener was doing a very special 
dance until the management took It In hand to put a stop to tbe 
center of attraction. Among some of tbe Techltes there were 
Betty Stewart, Mary Alice Shields, Gene McCullough, Marjorie
AND HERE'S A HOT ONE ... It seems that John “Enduran.ee” 
Morten runs into Doc Warden in one of the local night clubs, 
during the holidays . . . recognizing him- as one of his former 
instructors, “Buzz" ups to him with a friendly paw and a. cheery 
greeting as to-wlt: -‘Hell—lloow, Dr, Miller’’ ... oh well, we
all make mistakes, I guess that’s why they made red lead pencils.
AND SPEAKING OF New Year's Eve we hear that Bob McFarlln 
ran into an old acquaintance at a party in Cleveland . . . going 
up to his chum he shakes his hand, looks him square In the puss 
and says, “I remember the name—what's the face again?"
WHAT'S THIS we hear about a Beta falling off a balcony in New 
York on New Year’s Eve? . . '. Imagine that . . . right square 
on New Year’s Eve.
On. Other 
Campuses
The League of Women University will licgin a kniuT- 
contest this week, open to all ¿J- 
literal];dents. The "all1 .....
for the male-population of................compete. panicj,University 
pants are to knit baby clothes"^ which, when completed, will be <k nated to needy New York children.A similar experiment was ducted a few weeks ago at ColW Ha University when several dusb Lions decided to organize ~ " Ing Club. These otherwj _ ^ 
justified their laclInatloiTai
Government Conti Syracuse University — (MCEA) To the question “Do you fan» government control of armameoi ond munitions industries?” facultj members offered widely diverging answers in a recent Inquiry. jU| what was meant by the phrasa “government control”, and "armj. inent and munitions industries’ was the chief bone of contention The general consensus. of opiuiot seemed to favor some form of gar. ernment control but was doubUo] about government ownerchlp and operation of such Industries.
Little Browh Jug University of MlnnesoU- fMCEA)—If Michigan recognlz*. the Little Brown Jug when (and II)' she gets it back, it will bo not lb* fault of Andrew Dahlen, Unlverslij sign painter.The battered symbol of football Rtipremacy between the two school] Is divided in halves, and Dahleo b giving Minnesota’s half the work«. Half the neck and handle, former); Michigan’s colors, are being palntei maroon. The .Minnesota halt ot II» face, also* done in the Michigan col­ls being done oyer in brigbl
finished In gold leaf.He Isn’t going to touch the Mich- lean side of the jug, though. "Let
"Red OH Can” Gi University of Minnesota-» (MCBA)—The coveted Little Red Oil' Can, symbol of outstanding service to the University farm campus during the year, was award­ed to Donald Dailey, junior in agri­culture.A relic of the days - when the doan drove abouti-the campus ba
Christmas for the last 16 Both faculty members and student eligible for tbe award, -whi ‘
Temple University (MCEA1 - Fraternities have passed their zenith according to Dr. J. CooraJ Seegers, Dean of Men, at Temple,.
“Boys today seem less impressed by the mysticism and secrecy o! fraternity rituals, less inclined exaggerate the brotherhood lationshlps,” he declai-ed in a cent radio address.Dr. “Seegers threw a bomb Into the stereotype "football meti illiterate” when he disclosed the marks of athletes had equals 
Ihe general average of men University.
University lu>
for experimental purposes.
MARKED PREFERENCE 
AMONG COLLEGE MEN 
FOR KOVER-ZIP
O
N THE SUNLIT SLOPES OF BERKE­
LEY, FACING THE GOLDEN GATE, 
THE MEN OF CALIFORNIA MAIN­
TAIN STANDARDS OF APPAREL ON A PAR 
WITH THE STANDARDS OF CALIFORNIA'S 
MARVELOUS CREWS.
It is significant that California's best-dressed men, 
like the University’s foremost tailors, prefer the 
invisible scamlinc Kover-Zip closure on trousers 
and slacks.
. . . C/eo’uje Qo,« famous "Btrkttey lai- 
¡or to California mat, 
says;— 'For clicnts who prefer zippers, we find the Kover-Zip 
to be far superior to the old type. It is smooth, and no- 
metal shows.”
cS> tetseu J2) CLtU . . . another jamed Btrkt- 
ky toilor, jdyi:—In
our shop we recognize the demand for fine-tailored smooth­
ness in custom-built clothcs. We know that Californians insist 
upon style in every detail. The exposed metal zipper proved 
utterly unsatisfactory—that is why we use Kover-Zip on our 
tailor-made clothes.”
OtililanAtntj college tatlozi, aritlcts style, 
€n^'c^s& ai ^tc cahf *l'de ^asUiict
{it /me aultHK clothe*
WALDES KOH-I-NOOR, INC., LONG ISLAND CITY, N. Y. 
J*ARI8 PRAGUE DRESDEN WARSAW BARCELONA • LONDON

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEQIE TABTANf TUESDAY, JANUARY 8¿r 19353
THE
TUESDAYr .
QUARTERBACK
© ®
BY JERRY HANSON
COACH MAX HANNUM'S CAGE CAVORTORS have given a lot of 
satisfaction to hordes of fans in the last two contests. It would be 
worth paying a buck to see the Skibos in a return engagement with, the 
United Presbyterians—but even if there were that much money flying 
around, there'd be no game to see, for the Westminster crew was en­
gaged for only one round.
The Titans were an admirable bunch of bom players. Leyshocfe 
and Bennett played a superb game—but the -ft hole machine didn’t work 
as smoothly as had been planned on. The late rally of the Tartans 
nearly spelled doom for the Blue and While. Had the Tartans entered 
Hie game in a confident mood at the start the story would have ended 
differently. Charles Spizak played a brilliant game which has placed 
liim in the front row of Max’s class.
And Max’s class Is a revelation. I got a load of his lecturing to 
the boys from the other side of a closed door just previous to the West 
Virginia tussle. He was really giving his machine a goodi oiling—and 
the fellows responded pretty well, If you'll remember.
“Stretch'’ James astonished the crowd with a Merrlwell feat which 
bid well to put the rejection check on tbe Mountaineers os the final 
gun popped. But again the boys bad gcttsn oS to a late start. Shomo, 
who has taken a lot of applause from the fans in recent games, was 
easily the highest scorer with six field goals an.d one charity toss.
That puts West Virginia along side of Pitt in ranking positions in 
(bo Eastern Conference. Carnegie would have had undisputed ranking 
if it had turned back the Mountaineers.
Personally, I'd like to see the Skibos take more advantage of 
1 James' ability of cinching tbe Up-off. James should practice bis jumps 
more, and add to hla^ natural advantage. Fltzwil6on hasn’t been able 
to do much, but be keeps his rating as an ace. I’d adviBe giving the 
current bouquets to Spizak and Shomo.
THE SOPHOMORE STAR WHO MIGHT be faced with a brilliant fu­
ture on the basketball court but for an Injured knee] gets my most sin­
cere sympathy, but the guys who keep him out on the eourt rate the 
bird In equal volume. They say It can do no additional harm—but I 
don’t believe It after watching Andy Krltscher In the Westminster 
game. It really gets ye scribe's dander up to listen to the sports 
moguls say, "It won't get any better, to be sure, but it ean’t get any 
worse—the only thing for the boy to do Is to go to the hospital and 
have the cartilage removed," and then see him leg around the court 
against normal competition. A life-long limp Isn't worth all the glory 
that can be stuffed Into all the empty heads In the world.
ALL THE BIG SHOTS IN THE GRID coaching game gave the linotype 
operators a lot of ems to set on the subject of subsidizing athletes, dur­
ing the Christmas holidays, but It didn’t amount to “boo” as far as set­
tling the problem goes. They got a lot of publicity, but not of tbe type 
that helps much.
They simply admitted that players were-being subsidized, that cer­
tain methods used where not ethical, but that as long as the august 
body of college* alumni cried for winning- teams, subsldaUon had to 
exist. .The whole conclusion of the debate rested on the great princi­
pal that after all nobody gives a damn if colleges do subsidize players.
THE ATHLETIC COUNCIL HAD ITS FIRST meeting since tjie foot­
ball season last week, and awards were dealt.out A lot'of big busi­
ness was tabled to a later meeting, and the Football'Captain and Var­
sity Manager have yet to be choeen.
' Terebu9 and Trbovlch seems to be the candidates' for Captain, and 
It's hip and tuck. Schmidt and Marino hold the Inside track for the 
Manager birth—and the council Is down to looking over their respec­
tive scholastic averages to facilitate making the selection—which 
favors Schmidt.
And In regard to the '‘Tech Shake-up” in the coaching staff, which 
was rumored several times during the vacation and publicized In the 
Pittsburgh papers—that discussion was also tabled, and Buddy Overend 
refuses to talk. If the facing of the question Is delayed long enough 
everyone will probably feel content to tolerate the present arrange­
ment. I wish the Couneil would give the student body a voice In the 
matter.
i THERE ARE A LOT OF BROTHERS playing around on the basketball 
I courts each day—new material, new aspirations, for some—and a feel- 
I iiig tliat they’d belter step on it to keep In the Tunning for others. 
I Anyway, the result will be keen competition.
Intramural wrestling is being pushed. Publicity Manager Roly Hill 
1 is trying to get Cy Brown from Wilmerding High to coach Carnegie 
aspirants. Brown was formerly of Westinghouse. Plana allow for in­
dividual, unattached entries in the competition, which will allow par­
ticipants outside of the usual organizations.
A lot-of good fraternity material will have to be dumped as regards 
intramural competition due to the new eligibility ruling which requires 
a 1.25 average in «ch.olavshlp for all participants. It’s to give the 
“mediocre” player a chance—as if gym wasn’t enough' exercise. Tha 
result is liable to be a lot of lost interest In intramural sports, for even 
tlte element of mediocrity would rather see the athletes in there fight­
ing Tor dear old Tappa ICegga.
JOHNNY ANDERSON GOT BACK SUNDAY MORNING with the story 
that his return ticket only went as far-as-Baltimore—and he’ll stick to 
it—fishl ,____
Varsity.Boxing Squad Is Improved; 
Intramural Bouts to Start Soon
Aided by the impetus of last 
year’s successful' season, the Car­
negie boxing team has begun what 
promises to be another good year. 
"With a full team and at least two 
men for every weight, Coach Ernie 
Sesto expects to offer one. of the 
largest and best teams in some 
time. Eacli year interest seems to increase in boxing, for last season the freshman squad was large and at. ibis time it boasts of- some worth-while talent. The Carnegie squad is lacking only In the 175 and heavyweight divisions, and the freshman squad will be able to fur­nish men for each of those in, 1938.
Intramural boxing, very popular before, is Included on this present ¡liedule, and promises, to bring any entvie * enter ha for nearly provide som course of the tourney.
Varsity Gets Workouts 
. The varsity has -been • training ««ring the Christmas vacation, and *s rounding into shape rapidly. No meets are scheduled until the.sec­ond semester. Coach Sesto is fol- »ftwing tive plati" ot the -Burrottnd- '»g schools in not booking meets until then, and hopes to give; his added polish by. delaying
competition before the actual i
Sophomores Look Good 
The varsity, which includes about 
26 men, is composed of quite a few 
veterans and a generous sprinkling 
of sophomores; In the 115-pound class are Cochran, Shapiro, and Wisniewski. The last two are sophomores. Cochran, if the neces­sity arises, may right in the 125 class, for his weight l- _
___: ah'd"HlslerV Krintzman ihis first . year of .varsity work. Tayriton and Wilson are fighting at 145 and Captain Bill Kulesz and
Boyd is the sole 175-pounder, but it is expected that Forsythe will fill any demands made In that division. Besides these men Coach Sesto is blessed with a wealth of reserve power and should meet any con- 
.tiiigency handily.
Intramural Meet Planned 
Bouts in the intramural meet Avlll-bcBin In- about. tAyo. weeks. It will be run under the same plan as last year, and so. the matches willprobably be fought in the after­noons. As soon as they pleted. which should bethe
_i will take tbe ring » through what should be ;:eatUfyingv*ett8on, ...*• .•
Intramuralites 
Start Caging
Season Opens Monday, 
Schedules Released
1.25 IS ELIGIBLE
Plebe Material Giving New 
Aspirations to Many
If one were lo look into the Gyu: 
on any of these fine January after­
noons a very active scene would 
present itself. Yes, intramural 
basketball is under way once more. 
With scholastic eligibility being 
clamped down, many former -slats 
will be absent from tbe floor when 
the league gets under way. In or­
der to compete in intramural sports the candidate must be in good standing which means main­taining a factor of 1.25 or above for the preceding semester for up­perclassmen; for freshmen the rat­ing will be taken at midsemester of the first term, and at the end of tbe term for secoud semester com­petition.
Nevertheless the various frater­nity and dormitory reports con­cerning their respective team
Is the main reason for believing
leagues bave already been arrang-
won by the Delto Tou Delta frater­nity, which beat out Beta Theta Pj in the final game between the two league champions.TI.e league schedules for the first week of play follow:
American League January 14—Beta Theta Pi
January 16—Alpha Tau Omega
January 16—Sigma Nu -vs. Jr. Chem. and Mech.; Beta Sigma Rho Pi Kappa AJphn.January 17—Tueta XI vs.' Sco- bell Hall.Federal League January 14—Delta Tau Delta vs.
Wo m e n*$ A thletics
-----by-----
MARGIE GREEN
Now that our men’s varsity bas- keLball team is In the limelight of the sports world for Its splendid attack In all Its contests up to date,
who might be interested in taking off a few surplus pounds (women only, please). Basketball Is
girlish figure; especially with the
opinion on this matter, if you want encouragement. She will merely inform you that there is nothing you can do In this whole wide world that will slenderize any par­ticular part of the human frame; all or nothing, I suppose, is her creed. She also maintains that the best - bruising method of reducing is by means of- that popular elec­tric shaker-upper (or-downer which ever you prefer) device on the mar­ket—if you care for bruises, v Bui. resftty; folks., this game of
’36 is still going strong; in .fact,
running around in circles so fast
substituted. "Bë' creful, my frans—" is all I have to say about that!
tive /
ery short while, so-be to select the girl that,you tliiuk can best qualify for that position. The success of your teams will de­pend largely upon your choice of captains. .I don't suppose anyone has at­tempted any Ice-skating on the lily pond over In the park, but take it from me, your originality, IC noth­ing else, should stand a good chance for newspaper publicity. It seems that a reporter from . the Post-Gazette_jKa&.3R.and£dBS.ar2uti<i. the campus last Thursday, hope­fully looking for someone who might pose for a picture' near the pond, with. Ice skates in hand. We told the gal to come back again-) let's; disappoint her
Totals for Men’s Varsity Rifle timed practice were: Brfadhead,281; Mellinger, 277; Cullen, 263:- Dervaes, 269; Ryshanek, 265; total for five'high scores, 1,360.Totals for Women’s Varsity Rlfli were: Schmelz, 100; Lehr, 99 J Frederick, 99; Hainan, 99; Walna, 99—all prone. Total of five high.
“The funniest thing that we have seen In the United States was a rolleee newsna^er reporter at Em­ory College." save Jdbn Grlpps, a member of the Oxford University
Scots Fight for City Championship;
To Meet Pitt Tonight, Dukes Friday
Large, and Speedy. Pitt 
Panthers to Invade 
Carnegie Courts
PITT HAS LOST TO 
HILLTOPPER CREW
Iiaonura’s Huskies Show 
Style Which Bids Well 
' To Stop Panthers
Carnegie will meet the’ classy Panther quintet on the Tartan courts this evening starting at
I'll wager you will stay until the final gun bellows, if there’s stand­ing room enough.Pitt and tech fight it out in tbe cage with just' as much ginger as they do on the grid; the feud is of long standing, and each of
advantage took both But the Clansmen have always put up a stiff battle, and this yeai" bunch will go Into the fray with
there iB a dirth of rial in its ranks, has shown a team of near championship calibre. The
fault a remarkable record might
the Westminster and West Virginia contests of last -week,- victory In
neck of the woods knows that wins over those teams would have been great stuff for the Sklbos. Mpybe
gation In a single track frame of mind, to the effect that now it’s Carnegie’s turn to dish defeat.
Panthers On Toes 
After the Panther’s olose one against the Dukes in the first intra- city meet, which was lost by
1th the other city foe. To be the Pitt cagers would flnd a drop to the Tartans extremely unpalata-
The Pitt Panthers will place a team on the floor with a decided edge .over the Tartans for size, and they will have a pretty good dis­play of speed to show off. Further, tbe Panthers will.have a great ad­vantage in experience. So far Doc Carlson’s boys have
Cribb6 and Noon, tall rangers for the Panthers, will give the Tar­tans plenty of trouble, for they are ~xperts at keeping the ball for
wllson, will get a hand in the fun occasionally, too, and If the cch- termen can continue their good form In getting th-3 tip-off, with a
The Tartans will have the advan­tage of their own courts.
Ticket Exchange
for the Duke home .court, will be played ..In the '- Car-
sion.Tickets from student ath­letic books may be ex-, changed, plus forty i
University teacher
,li rymopiw rmsyihsv
CHAS, M; mc.ÇlNS & co...27191b St> BM*". *-Y-
HIGGINS' 
DRAWING BOARD 
& LIBRARY PASTE
Carnegie’s Merriweli: «Stretch” James
Carnegie’s giant center, who does math examples on ceilings as a matter of convenience, has a great deal to do with the success of the basketball squad this season. His last minute field goal and charity
Carnegie history.
Tartan Cagers Put Vp Good Show 
Though Dropping ’Em lo Opponents
Since the last Issue of this page,
themselves very well agalnBt some
of victories, they have established a. start toward a successful season.
In a series of two practice games with the WlUigs, they dropped tbe
this proIs rated about the strongest in this district.The first official game of the in­tercollegiate season was played ivith a strong outfit from George­town University. Conceded a 50-50 chance to w|n, the Plaid represent tatives pulled through In great shape and started off the season with a win.During the vacation they were Idle as far as actual competition goes, and spent most of the time In tough practice sessions. Imfne- diately after the resumption of classes, the Tartan liasketeera play-
ngest basketball team in this
standards at the beginning of the game, they got Into full swing and after wbat turned Into an exciting, closely-fought battle, the Plaidlost! only by tbe score ot 33-30.Last Saturday, the Sklbo floor- mch met an undofeQted team from tho bills of West Virginia. Once more the visitors went away with the victory under their arms, but the Tartans had played an excep­tionally fast And powerful game. After the score had been tied in Uie last few seconds of play, the Mountaineers managed to win in
These games so far have proved that although Coach Max Han- num’s men have not succeeded in defeating tlielr opponents, they have come very close to it and that they undoubtedly have the ma­terial for a great season.
It is better to remain silent and keep teachers - In doubt than say somethjng and let them be eure>—
I STUDENT NIGHTS! j
l every Wednesday and Friday |
Ifeaturing Will Ryshanek 2
and his Schenley Dance Band 
• from Ten until Two
: ; . with Breakfast at Midnight
For information, telephone MA flower 6400
FORMAL DANCE every SATURDAY NIGHT
.................DOIiLARper.persosv..............-...........
Peoples--
Pittsburgh
nr* a otrust Lo.
Oakland Branch
Forbes and Meyran
“THE OAKLAND 
BANK"
IN THE 
CENTER OF 
COLLEGE 
' ACTIVITY
MEMBER FEDERAL 
RESERVE SYSTEM
Duquesne Tilt for City 
Ranking Will Be 
Played in Gym
HILLTOPPERS HAVE 
STRONG DEFENSIVE
Red and Blue Show Record 
Of Seven Victories And 
No Defeats
Carnegie’s lighting floor squad 
goes into action Friday night lu 
an attempt to reconcile Itself for 
the two close defeats suffered at 
the bands of tho two highost rank­
ing basketball teams in the dis­
trict. Duquesue, rated as one of 
the best teams in the country, has 
an enviable record so fur'and Is 
anxious to take this opportunity 
get reveuge against the TartnnBSotheTartans have a rather spotty
: going to show tbe Hllltoppers
ìegle gymnasium instead of on tbe Duciuesne floor
• Pitt last Friday in a thrilling game that endod with i
chalked up seven straight wins and have no intention of allowlug their winning streak' to be broken. The strength of their combination Is>Yell known and their defense flaunted as one of tbe tlghest in the country. The Tartan shooting haB been erratic and against such a setup they will hove Lo find the
played,Strong Sophomores on Both Squads 
The Duquesne lineup fentuv three sophomores and two veterans with the reserves being well re­enforced by last year’s nleboa. Tbe Skioos have used a starting lineup of four sophomores with others seeing a great deal of ac­tion. Injuries have played havoc with the Plaid offensive and there is little chance of these being re*, paired for tbe Friday farcas.
per treatment that Is will yield
Awards Given 
For Athletics
Atliletic Council Meet 
Makes New Ruling
NO APPOINTMENTS
Nineteen Major C’s Given to 
Players and Managers
January 3, and Dean Tarball, chairman of the new football-'sods' committee, reported progress and that probably by next fall the com­mittee would have completed . its competition and the name- of the winner would be announced.;.A new ruling was made with reference to the awarding Of Vat*» elty and Freshman Track lottors;
Freshman Ttack teams shall be awarded their letters, provided they have earned the required number, of polntB, which shall he on average of two points per meet, and they must have the recont- mondallon of their rospecUyo Track Coach and the. Graduato Manager.
The' following men have played: In tho required number of quar­ters on the Varsity football team for 1934 and were awarded the Varsity Major "C" d*tgbe and-. Croft, co-captalns; Kelly. Burns. Mlhm. Chyczewskl. DoIa\yay, Good«, ridge, Trbovlch, Lehman, Vorderf burg. Patt, Carlson, Terebua. W.
Earl Hudson, who plaved three quarters of tbe Notre Damo game ond three quarters of the Pitt' game. <
William H,' Decker and J. Ed* "’nrd Robinson,' co-managers ot
Freshman Football Squad, having.^ played in the requlrod number of nu.nrters, were- awarded their Freshman Numerals: Mlskeylcs,;Slaminlto. Yeknlch, Kopcsak, Sufch* ^rJnnd. Tywarnnkv, Mntelnn,' Oarhe... DIDomlnlco, Keller. Fryer,. Napai-' nick. Grad, Rosenthal.
The solectlon of the Varsity. Football Manager and Captain- for next year were tabled until ilid next meeting.
The following members of the Varsity Cross-country team gtynd. awarded the Varsity -Minor VC". Bobin, aiolnrn. Koch, McMahon.The following members of ..tho, Freshman Cross-country team were awarded their Numerals: Crotsley,. Ellis. TTalferly. Lyngholm and Cap- tain Pinkerton. 'V. IS. Bender was elected Man­ager of! the Varsity Cross-country/ team for next year. :i-' \-
A reporter for a metropolitan daily asked a num­
ber of persons on the street, "Wliat ¡5 the biggest buy 
for a nickel?” Two-thirds promptly replied, *A tele­
phone call.”
..Americans tluoughotit-tlie country-evidently agree ^
with this judgment of value received from the tele­
phone. For each day they hold more than 57,000,000 
conversations over Bell System wires.
Year after year Bell’. 
System planning extends, v: 
the telephone’s reach;-- 
—increases its speed-^ 
makes it more conye-^ 
nient, more valuable to.'^ 
everybody.
BEIL TELEPHONESYSTEM

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY. JANUARY 8, 1935
THE
CARNEGIE
PLAID
Page edited by Night Schoc
¦SfEditorial Board of
G. W. VESSELS H. INGRAM E. F. WHITE •WILLIAM E. HAKE
A Happy New Year
The extent or U»is wish needs to 
be evaluated ba terms of tbe par­
ticular individual to which tbe 
¦greeting- Is addressed. To some, 
happiness lies In monetary gain, to 
others, happiness means nothing 
more than tbe ability to gain the 
ascendency over their fellow men 
in politics, social accomplishments 
or display of power. But, to the 
average individual, the ‘wish im­
plies nothing more thau freedom 
from more than tbe usual sbare of 
the ills that flesh is heir to, and a 
sufficiency of -the necessaries of 
life. What constitutes a necessity 
again depends upon tbe indlvudal. 
This process of reasoning could be 
extended indefinitely, putting the theory of causation to shame for .the many ramifications that could be developed. However, to. most o^- us, the" kind wishes of our ; friends imply their interest, not so much in our material welfare, as ' in the peace of mind and personal satisfaction that comes with the knowledge that our life is free from petty struggles • and strife that go towards making the battle against the major problems of ex­istence.less bearable. The pleasure ;to! be derived from the certainty of having done our best and having tried to brighten the lives of those about us is the sole source of real­ization of tbe wish that tbe. ;ne\y, '••year will be a happy one.
The Lindbergh Case
¦ considerable expense moDwealtbs concerned, tne lamous ^ Lindbergh case has reached the •-‘climax. The accused ia well forti- fleld in an effort to defend himself, and his prosecutors are equally well armed with evidence, largely of a circumstantial nature, that is .- .intended to convict him. The out- •• còme of the trial hangs in the bal­ance, but whatever its outcome, • one fact stands forth as an excel­lent example of tbe tendency of
.tailed statement of particulars ie . »‘distasteful, but that tbe blaring •.— headlines of the. average dally, ^-"^playing on the sympathies of the; ; .>• people for the bereaved parents of the kidnapped child are of doubtful aavor. Is it necessary for the J 'newspapers to adopt such method: ¦¡for attracting more customers? W<:’ tjelieve that the American publli • could be Interested in the subject
.¿ttut frn many other-caaea, such as . /the several recent tense moments In Europe, has the press overestl-• „mated tbe importance of an insig­nificant Item, in an effort to find - sufficiently sensational matter to >provlde a blatant headline. Too• ••often. these "scareheads" are fol- •:';lb;wed by Inconsequential bits.of
. • the headlines. Perhaps i
Items. Let us hope s
Idle Thoughts 
of an 
Idle Night 
Student
You’re telling me—
bile the vacation lasted it 6urely a hum dinger. Rushing here and there trying to catch up with
,-ould be redeemed.
¡elf that during this period of absence from the ue„ you were going to catch Ith aceomulated homework,
That if we should have had four weeks Instead of two, and that •ould be too short. Sure, If I bad anythlDg to do with the schedules I would see that four weeks would tie minimum length of time; bnt-then I don't so I am like the rest of the night students.
going to- be this Saturday, and I glad. Well, It goes without saying. It’s a wee bit early this but I gues6 my pocketbook stand it, so I’M be watching for at the gate—so what!
Workers Asked to 
Report January 12
the Night Student Council Insignia Award are requested to report in Thistle Mall on Saturday afternoon, January 12, at 1:30 o’clock, to ‘assist in preparations for the earn­ing Post-Holiday Dance spon­sored by the Night Student Council. Since the Increas­ing popularity and excell*
bly turn out and assist1 In the work 1e urged to do so. Tllfe' larger the number of work­ers, the lighter the burden on each Individual, and the bigger and better the coming function will bo.
January 12 Is 
Date Set for 
Council Dance
Anthony Latti Holds Office 
Of Secretary of Night Arts
Plans Are Completed for 
Post-Holiday Affair
NEW BAND CHOSEN
New Member of Council 
Has Been on Campus for 
The Past Five Tears
Will Click Named to Furnish 
Music For the Occasion
, has completed tbe plans' for the second inter-school dance of the current. Eeason. This event ’111 be the Post-Holiday Dance to 9 held Saturday evening, January 2, in- Thistle Hall.Will Click and his orchestra been engaged to provide the
the Night Campus but otherwise, well known in this lo­cality. Tbelr reputation for good
has been fortunate in obtaining services. If any of the stu­dents' have not heard this orches­tra befone, the excellence of tbeir offerings can only be proven by hearing them play.
The decorations, which will be beautifully and tastefully arranged i aproprlate motif, will trans­form Thistle Hall into a splendid ball room. /The students are in­vited to come and bring their
beauty and soft lights.
Tho Night Student Council is of­fering tbe students and their
easonable charge of one dollai per couple. Tickets may be ol taincde from any insignia workers
Reginald Attends 
Show at Institute
Harvard Psychologists 
Disparage Radio Talks
become a successful dlum of education. 'Experiments large number -of subjects atthe Harvard psychological labora­tory haVe shown that difficult : terrai Is seldom understood andmemberèd when heard through the radio. A test was conducted whereby groups listened ^ differ­ent etorlee at the same tlme,':òi broadcast and the other read by speaker In th£ room. The . listen*
The Mellon Institute
r'of-.the new building of the Mellon ^Institute that were open to the :members'Of the American Associa-
the. structure. The foresight of the ^founders of the Institute, and the .'.great work that has been done by ;;ite fellowB'has given to Pittsburgh
i iand. scientific ’ importai ' .city, and a proriise .-that further • progress ' *i certain to be made.
r Workers Guarded 
From Dust Haza rd
’P’;i.The present toll of'dust upon the ¿worker® In coal mines, grain mills, i inetal industries, sand-blasting, and
-vicinity of Pittsburgh the workers •''must take two months’- vacation for ^•'\<eVeiy four months they work. Even ¿/¿-.'•-.then, in many cases, tbelr health is seriously impaired. Such condl- ^.W'-rtibns' are- pr-ivaleat -ia- Tr.ar.j-tories and any apparatus which i'i'r-v-would aid in counteracting this ^‘^danger would be a noteworthy ad- ¿'•¿Ll^ltlon to tbe list of scientific ’^^achievements which beneat the
Before the danger of these sc^rdltlons can be overcome some ^''•¿method must be devised of j h-.r-.v'tainlng the exact nature of the s=-\iv?hazard Involved. The development su-h an apparatus, was an- 'ii ^'ijiounced recently by a prominent - r?mknufacturer • of' scientific equip .v.menk This machine inhales s Pwif. pies of air from the premises S?*5der': Investigation and places these i^slnrbottles which are taken to s ifei^laboratory for.analyses. The ben- n iBflciaJ possibilities of such a de- -r-volopmeot: are numberless. By de­termining the nature and concen- filiation of the duet in the air, ways •rwi 'and ; means for '¦ eliminating the ¿anger may be provided. . Gas •vv^.'masks- and air conditioning equip* ^-v. -ment -have been used and proved £ifiu:ititUl|y .' successful.but It la ex- (hat eciecceVwill produce
l&teftritefflclent^ibeiJiSv ofV«v»j4-,
ecalled* the story that was told by the speaker in the room.
‘The radio has a some.what dull­ing effect on the higher mental .processes of the - listener,” scientists report. “He is definitely Ifess critical, less analytic, passively receptive, when listening to the radio than when he Is face to face with tbe speaker.". How­ever this situation maybe some- and if televi* accomplished
Iowa State Students 
Light Costly Bonfiire
¦ of celebrating a football tory came across a pile of stalks on the campus. These stalks seemed good for nothing else but to burn so they touched a match the pile.
:t was a gorgeous bonfire but expensive one for the colege. The orth five hundred dol- ire to haveTie-en used by the. chemical engineering, de­partment in research projects. '
C. S. ED MAN
PRINTER 
6170 Monitor Street
SQUIRREL HILL 
BARBER SHOP
5B23 FORBES STREET
This week tbe Plaid Staff Is 
pleased to present Mr. Anthony 
Lalll. Mr. Lalii is jiow serving- -as 
a member of Night Student Coun- 
1. in addition to being a member 
of the Council, Mr. Lalli is also 
Secretary of the College of Pine 
Arts, having been elected unanim­
ously to that office.
He has been on the campus of 
tbe Carnegie Institute of Technol- 
gy for the pa6t.five years during 
hlch time he haB made quite it 
»cord. During the past year, h# 
has been awarded the Insignia of 
Activities given by the Night Stu­
dent Council. All of his scholastic, 
endeavor has been confined to the 
College of Fine Arts where he is 
registered in the Architectural De­
sign. Although this is his first 
n on the Night Student Council/ 
viewing his fine record as a 
scholar and bis commendable in­
terest In activities on the campus, felt that-he is an asset to tho cil and to his College.
Didja Notice
THAT. Reginald, the Roving Reporter, razzed the dance he attended on a complimentary ticket The wretch.THAT Russ Lahr, the assist­ant social chairman, went and got-married on Christmas Day. Happy New Year, Russ.THAT that Happy New Year goes for all 'the readers, too.
A. A, A. S. had
week - of December, there? No? We were, of It was way over •
friend the howibare the -campus was-'until the -other evening. ¡Having heard rumblings
raisor of gray hair and blood ro, fried to the‘tall timberfe-^b as and alack; ¡-the campus is itreed that he had to seek else­where for his sancturary,
Having nowhere to g< mother to guide him the old bojc
ing orb camo to rest on the Mellon Institute wherein dwelt, for the nonce,-the sagely A. A. A. -Stealing into the Scientific Ex-
unto blmaelf much of the whei and wherefore of thtngs scientific. One. of the exhibits- had all the earmaiks-.of a. coil, of .barbed wire, and Reginald was ‘ just ahout^to' appropriate It for defence purposes, when one of the owners came around and explained. Now -lt de- velopes that this coll of wire Isi not.........................No, it is aa projection, it Is a three. dimensional projec­tion of a fourth dimensional some­thing or other Interesting, no end. 
Decrying the sad fate that should ¡slumber our fair campus and then project a perfectly good coll of barbed wire Into the fourth di­mension, I betook me to my garret. Throwing nijrself-deop into-thoujtjbt, Didja Notice) I rasseied with the problem of finding t
the holiday, only
lost! Whoopee! and other expses- aions of victory. (P. S. Eureka!) I would become a- fourth dlmen- :1 projection of a three dimen­sional Roving Reporter. I gather »me long sturdy Iron (Fe) bars a-erit to work, and in. a couple of hours, there 1 was, in again and i’ what for?_______________
First Trinity 
Lutheran Church
. MUttKEMa, Fu
LARGEST SELECTION OP ^ PORTABLE AMD STANDARD-SIZED
TYPEWRITERS 
$14.95 to $75.00
LllBEOT4A™TFBWRm:R,,,l - Ftrit Throe Monih*’ fenul Appllca
FORT PITT 
TYPEWRITER CO.644 LIBERTY AVENUE MeCtor BalUla* - ^ — C H Au ATluttc,¦4 ewi .twwty. rmmn. .
piibcritj Engraving Company]
HALF-TONES ETCHINGS 
COLOR PROCESS PLATES. 
PHOTOGRAPHY, 
COLOR.NEWS and COMMERCIAL.
-----ART
FOP ALL ILLUSTRATIVE 
PURPOSES
y» DAYCrNiGHT
THAT the last convinced us tha was right whei
THAT exama are toe comfort.THAT the Dr. Albert lecture was the one g; been unable to crash THAT things is Ic
Phi Nu Fraternity 
To Sponsor Dance
Function to Be Presented In 
Morrowfield Apartments
Plans for the dance to be held by the Phi Nu fraternity are'rapidly nearing completion. According i the social committee of the orgai Ization, nothing will be spared I assure tbofee who attend a full and very intertaining evening, ballroom of tbe Morrowlleld Apartment Hotel has been desig­nated as the. locale of the event and Elmer Gitzen and his orchestra have been engaged to supply th>; music. The dance will take placo on January 19. Because this dance is sponsored by the fraternity does not necessarily mean that it 19 open only to members of that or­ganization.-Thé public is cordial­ly invited. The past affairs of Ph! Nu have been very enjoyable and well received.
Anniversary Dance of 
Fraternity Is Success
Nu Sigma Alpha fraternity held its Anniversary Dance at the Penn- Lincoln Hotel In Wilkinsburg on December 29 of last year. The committee )n charge instituted for the first time the practice of hi ing supper served before, rather than after the.dance. This innoi tion met with the approval of the quests. An excellent orchestr; furnished the music • for the occa
••• .The all-pervading holiday spir It increased the zest and good humor -of’ the crowd, and present agreed that the function
Social Groups 
Are Selected
Scientific W onders 
Revealed at Show
Committees Are Chosen 
To Plan Activities
The representatives of the three 
chools for tbe Social1 Committee 
vere appointed at tbe -meeting of 
the Night Student Council which 
held on Sunday, December 2. 
It is the duty of the members of 
committee to cooperate during 
the year in all functions of tbe col­
lege from which • they were ap­
pointed and also to assist the So­
cial Chairman in the preparations • all Night Student Council func-
'Flaher. Edward Stoecker, Varesie, F. Grimes and Ed­ward C. McMullen; from the Col­lege of Engineering, S. Nikhazy, O. Ehlers. R. Fischer, T. Werner, H. Krebs. D. Davis, C. Maiuwaring, C. Price, H. Mattern, A J1. 'Lois, W. Laahr; from tHe College
C. Henry, J. W. Bithel, Earl Kirch- nerd and Andrew Stefans.Informal meetings will be held iu all colleges preparatory to each function. The purpose of these meetings will be to draw up plans for the coming event so as lo elim­inate last minute confusion. No­tices will be published in the Plaid prior to each meeting.
Committee and Aids 
Are Asked to Report
The newly appointed Social Committee and the student worl crs of the Night College of Fin Arts arc requested to attend meeeting next Wednesday night a 10:00 p. 111., in Hoom 200 on th third floor of tbe Arts Building t discuss plans for the coming even to be sponsored by their college. It is hoped that everyone wboso pre&-
Cboose your bank 
as you would choose 
a friend *
*-
MELLON NATIONAL 
BANK
New Developments Fire the 
Imagination of Vistors
The peoplo of the City of Pitts­
burgh have been favored above 
others, in rccent years, by the 
large number of exhibitions and onvenilons that have brought the
national Exhibition of Art that is held annually at Carnegie Insti lute, is one of the outstanding art hows of tbe world. Lately an- itber organization that is among.
The American Association for tho dvancement of Science has hon­ored Pittsburgh by holding its con­vention and exhibition in our city.The exhibition was one of tho scientific world, although some of sxhiblls were, to the layman, things brought here from the ivorld of magic, genii, and wonder­ful lamps. Wonderment was thi keynote of the exhibition. It seemed as If the land of science and invention had completely cast aside its garments of rumor and conjecture to show Its marvelB to wailing world.
Small electric furnaces, that erely with the aid of ordinary iuse current, will melt five pounds of steel in eight minutes.
fed in your drinking water. Ma­ss that can show you a mov- ing picture of the sound of your ’ as you talk. A beam of light will make a roaring dynamo to stand still. -In fact anv-
Students Convene 
During Vacation
Contloued Fram Page X — J
the large fees charged to honorar? uhits. *
•'That the NSFA ask its 0lh cal units to investigate tbelr cam pus to weed .out useless organic
“That the NSFA condemn a worthless and superfluous inter* collegiate organizations, particular ly national fraternities.
“That undergraduate publications
the high school students in order that they will be better prepared to appreciate Student Government and Honor System when they
hat you wero firmly RtLd I was absolutely impossible sliow^ at the Mellon Insli"
possible.
The American Association thè Advancement of Sclenct serves a vote of thanks from the people of Pittsburgh for bringing
worthy of the fine turnout tbat visited the Institute during the e bibitlon period. Numerous Pitts­burgh industries were represeated
' they're
quite mistaken
Many people think it’s 
i xpensive to telephone far 
away friends. Actually few 
pleasures cost as little. You 
can call 100 miles for 35 
cenlfi; 300 miles for 80 cents; 
1,000 miles for $2.00 
by Station to Station 
Night Rates (effective after 
8:30 P. M. Standard Time).
V /
'dSoÂesf
believe
STUDENTSWANTEDFive hundred Typewriter^ all makes, .. Portable« an<h Standards,- sold*- rented, re­paired. $3.00' one month, $10.00 five month«.
American Writing 
' Machine Company601 LIBERTY AVENUE PITTSBURGH ATIantle 5468 EA our School representative . DICKHAMMOND
tey ati/seeft saymy.
—- and/hear l/iem say.. THEY TASTE BETTER
¡¡¡SÉ
