"nside
............11
............L5
...........L9
...........LI 1
Sports.........................................7
Due to a lack of submis­
sions, the University Calen­
dar does not appear this 
week. Please submit entries 
for the Calendar no later 
than Thursday at 5 pm.
Features
Orientation starts offthe 
‘94 School Year • see page 
LI
Sports
Fall Sports: Opening 
Day and Previews« 
see page 7
THE TARTAN
'olume 89. Issue 1Carnegie Mellon University's Student Newspaper Since 190G6 September 1994
David Perry/Tartan Photographer
Vith the many changes In dining services, there could be an Increase In the 
lumber of customers have flocked to the meal carts In Wean Hall.Dining problems anger students
JYEDWAHD HAYES
"artan Assistant News Co-Editor
Carnegie Mellon Dining Services 
CMDS) has been going through many 
hanges all over campus this semes- 
er due to the demolition of Skibo. The 
hanges have left many students con- 
used and angry.
When Skibo went down, Kiltie Court, 
¦liich housed the Tartan Grill and 
alads Plus, was also eliminated. In 
rder to compensate for this, 
j lorewood Gardens was reopened.
Now Dining Services has been hit 
vith an increased number of students. 
The amount of dining facilities is the 
lame,” said Roger Heydt, director of 
lining Services, “but the size of each
individual location is not as large as 
what Skibo was.” Highlander Cafe had 
to change the arrangement of the ser­
vice line in order to prevent the con­
gestion. The food carts in Wean Hall 
are also experiencing similar over­
crowding problems.
“Even we didn’t anticipate that the 
volume [of students] would get as high 
as it was,” said Heydt. That was evi­
dent as many of the meal carts tempo­
rarily ran out of food. Said Heydt, 
“There were some occasional short­
ages, but never a situation where we 
ran out completely.”
Some students commented on how 
they felt they were misled in the Meal 
Plan brochure. The brochure stated 
Please see CMDS, page 3
Fair gets warm response
Crowded, muddy tent satisfies most groups
By JASON TOGYER
Tartan News Editor
It was muddy. It was crowded. But 
from most indications, this year’s fall 
Activities Fair, sponsored by the Office 
of Student Activities, was a success.
Most organizations exhibiting at the 
fair said that the crowd seemed larger 
than usual. “It’s nice,” said Eric Moore of 
the Gaming Club. “The last one I worked 
at was in Skibo. This is better. There’s a 
lot more stuff out here.”
“We’ve got a lot of names for buggy,” 
said Matt White, vice-president of Stu­
dent Dormitory Council (SDC), but he 
said that some of them were from people 
who had already been buggy pushers. 
“We’re doing good so far. The fall Activi­
ties Fair is always this big,” said White. 
“It’s a lot better in the fall [than in the 
spring].”
In the past, the Activities Fair had 
been held on the Cut adjacent to Skibo or 
inside Skibo. This year, because of the 
construction of the University Center, a 
new site had to be found.
“It’s amazing that they got everyone 
beneath this tent,” said White.
“I think it’s great. I think it’s very 
exciting,” said Dean of Student Affairs 
Michael Murphy. “I think [the size of the 
crowd] looks good this early. I like the 
location, I think the tent is very conve­
nient. I think they’ll have huge numbers 
by the time the day’s over.” 
University President Robert 
Mehrabian also visited the fair. “I come 
every year,” saidMehrabian. “It’s a great 
event for everyone, including the presi­
dent. I get a really good feel for all the 
different things happening on campus 
that our students can take advantage of. 
There are a iot of good people here.” 
“It’s better. I think it’s a better set-up,”
r a
1 Vj?5P,-v,';v
* ' ¦
'i
'¦:ri * -, *
Vi-:’Sw ^
fe-
David Perry/Tartan Photographer
The Activities Fair once again allowed the student body to come out and join the 
numerous activities that CMU has to offer.
said Natasha Jackson of the National 
Society ofBlack Engineers. “There’s more 
people circulating around.”
Tiffani Singleton, of Voices United 
Gospel Choir, sitting at the next table, 
agreed. “I think the freshmen are more 
willing to come out and do stuff this year 
than last year.”
Not all groups were reporting success, 
however. “It looks about the same [as 
last year],” said Peter Wieland of AB 
Tech. “It’s sort of one big mass of people 
and they’re all ignoring us again.”
The Activities Fair is typically aimed 
at incoming freshmen and transfer stu­
dents. This year, a number of groups 
aimed their pitches at graduate stu­
dents. It was the Graduate Student 
Organization’s first year at the Activi­
ties Fair. “It seems like mostly 
undergrads are here,” said GSO Presi­
dent Tim Mallo. “One person stopped to 
talk. But it’s still early. I don’t expect 
graduate students to show up until after
six.” André Butler of the Black Gradu­
ate Student Organization said that at­
tendance was poor. “It’s been slow so 
far,” he said, primarily because few 
graduate students attended. The orga­
nization expected a much better turn 
out for a picnic following the activities 
fair.
Mallo was upbeat about recruitment. 
“A lot of the grad students heard about 
the GSO in their summer mailing. Ev­
eryone already knows about it that’s 
coming in.”
Not everyone at the fair was a fresh­
man. Sophomore chemical engineering 
major Vijay Rajaji came for information 
about the Hockey Club. “I signed up [for 
hockey] last year but never had time.”
Rachael Hopkins, another sophomore 
Chem E, signed up with Habitat for 
Humanity. She worked with the group 
last year. “It seems like there are a lot 
more new clubs and activities,” she said. 
“More interests are being represented.”
ichools reconsider Poor practices cause paper’s debtinancial aid basis Tartan billing, accounting problems result in $26,000 overrun
Gabrlen Symons/Tartan Artist
ANGELA MOLLOY
rtan Ass’t News Co-Editor
Jd. note: This is the first of a 
¦iesJ
The problems of financial aid 
itribution have surfaced once 
aia as colleges and universi- 
s may begin to shift toward 
rit-based aid distribution in- 
id of need-based. The prob- 
arises most prominently in 
es of middle-income or 
ddle-dass” families who do not 
alify for need-based financial 
I but still cannot afford the 
al cost of university tuition. 
3ill Elliott, vice president for 
rollment, was quoted in 
rnegie Mellon’s alumni maga- 
te as saying, “There are kids on 
npus who couldn’t afford the 
tion even if it were $1,000. 
;d there’s another group of kids 
10 could afford the tuition even 
t were twice what it is.”
But many middle-income kids 
en don’t even think about 
megie Mellon. And many in 
it group are the children of 
rmni of many schools like 
megie Mellon of the nation, 
is is the very group that this
institution was originally created 
to serve—-middle-income kids,” 
said Elliott. “So, we’re offering a 
merit-based program that, in fact, 
is providing financial aid inde­
pendent of financial need to those 
middle-income families that 
might never have qualified for 
aid based on need, but whose 
children are outstanding stu­
dents.”
Although CMU and other area 
universities have not officially 
changed any existing financial 
aid distribution policy, a merit- 
based program would distribute 
aid in accordance with their aca­
demic and/or extracurricular 
achievement.
There are several problems and 
concerns surrounding the issue 
of merit versus need-based aid. 
One question that would: Ifmoney 
is being allocated on a merit-based 
system, what happens to the 
need-based kids?
Betsy Potter, Director of Ad­
missions and Financial Aid at 
the University of Pittsburgh, pro­
vided a good example. If a school 
were to have $10 million to award 
and half of it was going to merit- 
based students, and the other half 
to need-based students, it would 
most certainly knock need-based 
students out of the running. But 
as Potter said, “if there’s new 
money comingin [for merit-based 
aid], it’s a new issue.”
At Pitt, Potter said, they had 
“not had any meaningful discus­
sions on changing their current 
financial aid policies.” If merit- 
Please see AID, page 3
Treasurer: Going over 
budget not unusual
As. in any normal fiscal year, a 
number of student organizations 
spent more money than they made 
during fiscal year 1S93—94. As a 
whole, these 18 organizations over­
spent by $36,000, which is some­
what unusual.
What was most unusual about 
the overspending of fiscal year 
1993—94 was how much of that 
total came from one organization. 
The Tartan’s deficit accounted for 
over 70 percent of the total deficit. 
Student Government Treasurer 
Emma Gosden said that many of 
the organizations who ran over 
budget were victims of misquoted 
prices, or were charged late in the 
year for items for which they 
thought they had paid.
Gosden called one incident 
“amusing." An organization with a 
space in Skibo had filed a mainte­
nance request at the beginning of 
the calendar year. When April 
came, the repair had not been 
made and Skibo’s demolition was 
assured, the organization decided 
to spend the money that had been 
allocated formaintenance on other 
items. As luck would have it, Physi­
cal Plant made the repair in late 
April, just two months before the 
first wrecking ball crashed into 
Skibo, and four months after the 
request had been filed.
Of the 18 organizations that ran 
over budget, fifteen organizations 
are subsidized by the Student Ac­
tivities Fee. These fifteen organi­
zations overspentby $35,786.09. 
At the end of the fiscal year, be- 
account must have a s BUDGETS, page 3
By DAVE MARTIN
Special to The Tartan 
& DAWN WALLHAUSEN 
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Eighteen student organizations 
went over budget during the last 
fiscal year. While that’s not un­
usual, the amount overspent, 
$36,000, is unusally high. And 
one organization accounted for 
70 percent of that total.
The number and circumstances 
of many organizations in the red
were close to nor- ___________
mal, but The Tar­
tan managed to run 
itself $26,255.25 
into the red. Seri­
ous problems with 
billing and record 
keeping plagued 
the newspaper 
through most of the a«gagg»ia« 
fiscal year, and 
while the paper didn’t spend as 
much money as it had budgeted, 
the money lost in advertising 
pounded it into a deep red hole.
One of the newspaper’s prob­
lems has been in filling the posi­
tion of business manager. Since 
January 1993, the organization 
has had three business manag­
ers, and the position is currently 
unfilled.
Michael Harris was appointed 
to the position of business man­
ager in December 1992, and be­
gan running the office in Janu­
ary 1993, as a freshman. He ad­
mits he had little experience when 
he began.
But, Harris says, with three
previous business managers still 
in the area, any problems he ex­
perienced through his first five 
months as business manager 
were allayed with their assis­
tance. “That’s [with assistance 
from experienced business man­
agers] how I survived,” says Har­
ris. Harris says that he did not 
depend solely upon these people. 
He says he often worked 40 hour 
weeks, while attempting to keep 
up with his classes as a fresh­
man. He also says he “had a great
“I stepped into quite a mess that 
was the start of this hole we're in.” 
— Andrew Sprouie, 
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
stafF which kept him on top of 
things. Through the end of fiscal 
year 1992—93, Harris believes 
that he had “run a good ship.” 
The newspaper was only about 
$1,000 over budget, less than one 
percent of its overall budget.
Andrew Sprouie, who replaced 
Harris as business manager, dis­
agrees with Harris’ assessment. 
“After Mike left, I found $10,000 
in checks scattered and strewn 
around the business office,” 
Sprouie says. “I stepped into quite 
a mess that was the start of this 
hole we’re in.”
When he began, Harris said, “I 
was gung-ho on advertising sales. 
I spent weekends in Shadyside
and Squirrel Hill and Oakland 
trying to get ads. But after a 
while, I got bogged down.” Buried 
beneath the school work and run­
ning the paper’s business end, 
Harris’ grades dropped.
When he returned from sum­
mer vacation, he attempted to 
spend more time on schooling, 
and less with the paper. But, as 
the weeks went by, work became 
more and more time-consuming. 
Abiding by a promise to himself 
and his parents, he decided in
_______________ September
1993 that the 
time had come 
for him to re­
sign from The 
Tartan.
He believed 
that he was 
leaving The 
Tartan in 
good financial 
shape. “I was still doing ad sales, 
and was planning to take a couple 
of advertisers to court, because 
they had never paid us. That 
wouldn’t have been thought about 
if we [The Tartan] weren’t doing 
okay. There would have been 
panic,” he says about the condi­
tions when he left.
After Harris’ resignation, 
Sprouie became business man­
ager. “When I started as business 
manager no deposits or journal 
transfers had been made. I in­
stantly deposited a bunch of 
money. When I left, we were con­
siderably behind in collecting 
what we were supposed to have 
Please see TARTAN, page 3

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon * 6 September 1994THIS JUST IN...
Barry continues on comeback trail
WASHINGTON August 1 (DJ>—As 
two dozen Indian and Vietnamese 
businessmen lunch on curried chicken 
at. a Georgetown restaurant, Marion 
Barry, introducedas “the future mayor 
of Washington, D.C.”, begins talking 
about his favorite subject: sin and 
redemption.
“We all have problems in our life,” 
he tells the group attendinghis $30-a- 
ticket campaign fundraiser. “But God 
has blessed me to come back stronger 
than ever physically, mentally and 
spiritually.”
Forget Haiti andhealth-care reform. 
What everyone here really wants to 
know is whether Marion Barry, caught 
on videotape smoking crack cocaine at 
a downtown hotel in 1990, will rise 
from the ashes to redaim the mayor’s 
office that he held for 12 years.
A Washington Post poll being pub­
lished today shows Barry with the 
narrowest of leads in the race for the
Democratic nomination.
With the race so tight, anything can 
happen before Election Day. Never­
theless, Barry, who served sixmonthB 
in jail following conviction on a misde­
meanor drug charge, already has 
staged one of the most confounding 
political comebacks since Richard 
Nixon.
What many wonder is: How could 
this happen? In short, an unusual com­
bination of patronage and class and 
racial resentment, as well as the 
strange local politics of Washington, 
has allowed Barry's resurrection.
Many would argue that the city's 
problems worsened considerably dur­
ing Mr. Barry’s latter years as mayor.
But that stark fact seems lost amid 
thé enthusiasm he’s generating, espe­
cially among, young black residents 
who see his downfall and revival as a 
tale of inspiration and hope rather 
than debauchery arid.betrayal.
Cubans continue exodus
MIAMI, September 3 — Cuban 
President Fidel Castro has stepped up 
efforts to stop Cubans from fleeing 
after major unrest in the streets of 
Havana and a series of ferryboat 
hijackings. The United States has 
also been affected by this mass exo­
dus.
Instead of being allowed automatic 
admission to the U.S., in mid-August, 
refugees found themselves detained 
at the Guantanamo Bay Naval Base
in Cuba. The amount of Cubans inter­
cepted in August by the U.S. has 
reached approximately 20,000.
This week in New York, Cuban and 
U.S. officials will meet to address the 
crisis.
There have been several warnings 
of potential unrest by members of the 
powerful Cuban exile community in 
Miami. They claim if talks lead to 
concessions to Castro, there will be 
unrest in the streets of south Florida.
Tuesday
m
Showers and 
thundershowers 
likely. High tem­
perature in the 
mld-70s.
Four-Day Forecast
Wednesday
Mostly cloudy, 
with a slight 
chance of show­
ers. High should 
reach 70.
Partly cloudy. 
High tempera­
ture near 70; low 
in the 40s.
Partly sunny. 
Low In the high 
40s; high tem­
perature near 
70.
U.S.: No aid to Belfast soon
EDGARTOWN, Mass. September 2 
(DJ) — Although the U.S. is likely to 
provide millions of dollars to help ce­
ment a permanent peace in Northern 
Ireland, no aid package is imminent, 
U.S. officials say.
President Clinton, vacationing on 
Martha’s Vineyard island, was expected 
to meet today with Dick Spring, Ireland’s 
deputy prime minister and foreign min­
ister, and U.S. aid was a likely topic.
Spring said he had no specific re­
quests for Clinton. “We’ll be expressing 
our appreciation for his efforts,” Spring 
said this morning in an interview on 
NBC-TV.
But, he added, “We’ll also be looking 
at what needs to be done in Northern 
Ireland over the next number of years.”
“If there’s more assistance coming 
from the United States to help us to 
rebuild Northern Ireland, I think those 
who have been involved in violence can 
see that peace will in fact pay,” Spring 
said.
But officials sought to lower expecta­
tions of an immediate influx of economic 
assistance following the Irish Republi­
can Army’s declaration Wednesday of a 
cease-fire in its guerrilla campaign to 
oust the British from Northern Ireland.
“I wouldn’t look for any announce­
ments,” White House press secretary 
Dee Dee Myers told reporters when asked 
about the Clinton-Spring meeting. Al­
though Spring may meet with reporters 
afterward, Clinton has no such plans 
and his national security adviser, An­
thony Lake, does not plan to attend the 
meeting.
The U.S. already contributes $20 mil­
lion a year to the International Fund for 
Ireland for projects on both sides of the 
north-south border. There has been talk 
of escalating that into the $250 million 
range.
Disney Co. faces leadership crisis
ORLANDO, Fla. August 26, (DJ) — 
All great companies must start over ev­
ery 10 years or so. The Walt Disney Co. 
Chairman Michael Eisner has been re­
peatedly telling his executives this in 
recent months.
It isn’t insignificant that a decade has 
passed since Eisner took the reins of 
Disney or that the company, which he 
made ahuge success, is at what seems to 
be a perilous crossroads: Its mammoth 
theme-park business has been flat for 
several years along with its once-zoom­
ing stock price; Euro Disney is in recov­
ery; and a planned U.S. history theme
park in Virginia is beleaguered by a 
barrage of public criticism.
But if Eisner wanted a transforma­
tion, he got one this week with the de­
parture of Walt Disney Studios Chair­
man Jeffrey Katzenberg. This follows 
the death in April of Eisner’s working 
partner, Disney President Frank Wells, 
and the subsequent quadruple bypass 
surgery Eisner underwent just last 
month.
Disney now has to make some major 
decisions. Katzenberg won’t discuss it, 
but associates say he felt Disney needed 
to make dramatic moves and Eisner’s 
failure to heed that advice hastened his 
departure.
Eisner and his backers, including the 
company’s directors, were reluctant to 
make wholesale changes that went be­
yond shifting personnel, some Disney 
executives say. The only recent acquisi­
tion of note was of Miramax Films, a 
Katzenberg project. Eisner has long said 
that he doesn’t want to mortgage 
Disney’s future, or hurt its stock price, 
by overpaying for assets. He is confident 
that Disney can sustain growth through 
international expansion and an in­
creased output of animated films.
Even without Katzenberg, the com­
pany is confident that its feature-ani- 
mation division will continue to grow, as 
computer technology and increasingly 
experienced managers boost the output 
of films.
USAir plane got no wind warning
CHARLOTTE, N.C., August 29 (AP) 
—A USAir Group crew did not receive a 
wind-shear warning issued for the en­
tire airport in the seconds before the jet 
crashed last month, tapes show.
Flight 1016’s pilots had switched to 
another frequency when the warning 
was issued, said Phil Loftin, a Federal 
Aviation Administration employee who 
is manager of the air traffic control tower 
at Charlotte-Douglas International Air­
port.
TheFAAreleased tapes todaybetween 
the cockpit crew and air traffic control­
lers before the July 2 crash, which killed 
37 of the 57 people on board. Pilots 
routinely switch to different radar fre­
quencies as they approach the airport, 
he said. There was no explanation of 
why the wind-shear alert was not men­
tioned on the frequency that Flight 1016 
was using.
Syria, Lebanon to hold summit
DAMASCUS, Syria, September 2 — 
Presidents Hafez Assad of Syria and 
Elias Hrawi of Lebanon have met to talk
about the Middle East peace procesi 
before Secretary of State Warren Chris \ 
topher visits the region.
Christopher’s goal is to start up peacc 
negotiations with Syria and Israel. Leba 
non, which is dominated by Syrian 
stressed it will resume talks only wher 
Syria does. Syria and Lebanon are the ! 
only Arab states still offically at wai 
with Israel, following the decisions by ¦ 
the Palestine Liberation Organization1! 
and Jordan to sign accords with Israel.
Syria seeks a complete withdrawal ol 
Israel from the Golan Heights, which 
they captured in 1967 and annexed iri 
1981. Israel has offered a partial pull­
back over eight years. Sources close tci \ 
Lebanese Prime Minister Rafik Hariri, 
speaking on condition of anonymity, said 
Christopher will most likely visit Beirut 
this trip. He has bypassed Lebanon in 
his four previous trips to the region.
Silicone implant makers settle
BIRMINGHAM, Ala. September 2| 
(DJ) — A federal judge gave final ap-‘ 
proval to the world’s largest product- 
liability settlement; the $4.2 billion ac­
cord will settle most of the litigation 
between women and manufacturers of 
breast implants.
U.S. District Judge Sam C. Pointer Jr. 
deemed the global agreement generally 
“reasonable, fair and adequate” and' 
cleared the way for women to file claims 
against the settlement fund, possibly as 
early as next year. Thousands of women 
contend silicone and other breast im­
plants caused various illnesses, includ­
ing severe and debilitating localized pain 
and deformities.
Manufacturers deny silicone caused 
immune-system illnesses and are ex­
pected to fight thousands of cases filed 
by women who opted out of the global 
settlement and plan to pursue individual 
litigation.
The settlement sets out differing lev- j 
els of compensation payable over 30 years | 
to women with various illnesses alleg­
edly related to implants. But in approv­
ing the deal, Judge Pointer noted that 
“even its proponents do not claim this 
settlement is perfect or without prob­
lems.”
Dow Jones News Service
: SIKinWeather information from 
National Oceanographic and 
Atmospheric Administration
Briefs compiled by 
Edward Hayes & Angela Molloy ------_____----------------------
Attention! Attention! Attention!
The Carnegie Mellon Action Project (CMAP) is interested 
in hiring individuals to tutor the following courses:
03-121Modern Biology
06-151Thermodynamics
06-201Intro, to Transport Processes II
09-104Biochemistry
09-248Inorganic Chemistry
15-127Intro, to Programming
21-111Calculus I (H&SS)
21-112Calculus II (H&SS)
21-127Intro, to Modern Mathematics
24-121Thermodynamics I
24-141Statics and Dynamics
36-225Intro, to Probability and Statistics I
36-226Probability and Statistics II
73-100Principles of Economics
88-103Decision MakingJ
If you are interested in applying for a tutoring position, please contact Maria 
Jose Canonico at 268-2150 or stop by the CMAP office to pick up an appli­
cation. We are located in the Student Center, Suite 125. A copy of your 
transcript and a letter of recommendation from your department is required to 
complete your application.
IM/ECON 
“HAPPY (Q) HOUR”
Thursdays this Fall 
4:30 to 6 pm 
GSIA - Room 130
September 8,1994 
October 6, 1994 
November 3, 1994 
December 1, 1994
FOOD! Non-Alcoholic — Everyone Welcome
A good way to unwind! Stop by — Chat with your friends. 
Meet the faculty.
Coordinated by the Student Advisory Committee, departments of Industrial 
Management and Economics

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 6 September 19943
poor business sense causes $26K debt Merit-Based aid
TARTAN, from page 1
brought in to keep up with our 
l&dget. I immediately started 
Vjfitting spending, but I don’t think 
Idealized how much we were be­
hind due to my inexperience,” 
jproule says of his three-month 
feign as business manager. 
[Sproule did not have the same 
&vel of experienced support to 
bister his efforts and help with 
ijis inexperience that Harris says 
lie had. Harris says he was avail­
able for assistance, but he was 
ljut one to help Sproule, where 
¿arris had three. With a troubled 
ship, the mantle of business man­
ager was passed on yet again to 
tjnsure hands.
I In December 1993, during The 
Tartan’s annual editorial elec- 
|ons, Sproule was elected editor- 
in-chief, and Lauren Heinz was 
jlected to take the position of 
usiness manager. Heinz, who 
Jas since resigned, was unavail­
able for comment.
H It was clear to many at The 
tartan, and some of those in Stu­
dent Government, that the pa­
per was in trouble. The then-Stu- 
]|ent Government Treasurer, 
Declan McCullagh, chose to con­
duct audits halfway through the 
¡Spring 1994 semester.
While the audits were not full 
audits, a great deal of attention, 
according to McCullagh, was 
given to The Tartan. “When we 
first looked at their books, they 
¡were about $10,000 in the red,” 
feays McCullagh. “I spoke with 
Andrew [Sproule, editor-in-chief]
aboutthe situation. My assistants 
and I met with him [Sproule] and 
Lauren [Heinz] to talk about the 
situation and see how it could be 
fixed.”
McCullagh says that as time 
went on, The Tartan’s situation 
continued to worsen, though he 
was continually assured that the 
paper was about to turn its fi­
nances around. In April, two 
months before the fiscal year’s 
end, McCullagh says that he 
noted in his end-of-term report to 
Student Senate that The Tartan 
might be in serious financial 
trouble, and projected losses be­
tween $23,000 and $33,000. “They 
did nothing with it,” McCullagh 
says of Student Senate’s reac­
tion.
At the root of The Tartan’s fi­
nancial trouble were poor billing 
practices and clumsy record-keep- 
ing. Clients complained of hav­
ing billing troubles with The Tar­
tan for some time. “We’ve been 
having problems with them [The 
Tartan] for about a year,” says 
one of newspaper’s clients.
Advertisers have complained of 
being over-billed for their ads. 
Others complained of beingbilled 
more than once for an ad for which 
they had paid. Still others claim 
that there has been no proof that 
their ads were ever run. Checks 
to The Tartan were lost. Clients 
were billed for other clients’ ads.
Through it all, one of the big­
gest problems was that some cli­
ents were not being billed. “Natu- 
rally,” Sproule says, “some of the
people owing [The Tartan] money 
were angry.”
Student Government Trea­
surer Emma Gosden froze The 
Tartan budget upon her return to 
campus. After meeting with The 
Tartan officials, she says most 
issues have been resolved. She 
has requested that the paper buy 
items only as the need arises, 
otherwise, they cannot spend 
their money. She said that while 
most student organizations have 
had the amount of their deficits 
subtracted from their subsidies 
for fiscal year 1994-95, The Tar­
tan is paying back the Master 
Account. “Depending upon their 
level of organization and progress, 
they may not have to pay back 
every penny,” Gosden says.
Since the fiscal year’s end, The 
Tartan has had help from the 
Student Activities Office in re­
pairing its broken billing process. 
Sproule says that $60,000 worth 
of late bills were sent to area 
businesses since July.
The Tartan has brought in over 
$6,000 from these bills, and in 
Sproule’s words, is beginning to 
see “light at the end of the tun­
nel.”
The Tartanhas created two new 
business assistant positions. 
Christa Bower was hired to over­
see some of the billing process, 
while Chintan Shah was hired to 
administer advertising and sales. 
The Tartan is also currently look­
ing to hire for a number of new 
sales representatives positions, 
who will be paid on a commission
Budgetwoes not unusual
BUDGETS, from page 1
zero bottom line, money was given 
to these organizations from the 
Master Account, into which the 
Student Activities Fee is paid. On 
the plus side, approximately 
$12,000 from organizations 
spending less than they had pro­
jected was credited to the Master 
Account. Gosden originally froze 
the spending of eight organiza­
tions. She said, “Groups who had 
overspent by greater than 10 per­
cent of their budget were auto­
matically frozen.” Currently, only 
two groups’ spending remains fro­
zen. Gosden had notified and met 
with most of the other groups re­
garding their deficits.
Twelve organizations will have 
their current subsidies reduced by 
the amount of their deficits. One 
organization, the International Re­
lations Organization, however, will 
be meeting with the Funding & 
Recognition Committee of Student 
Senate regarding its deficit, which 
was four times its Student Activi­
ties subsidy.
—Dave Martin
basis.
Gosden is “encouraged that 
they [The Tartan] have hired two 
people to take care of billing.” 
Sproule believes that “the news­
paper will benefit” from the new 
additions. However, no one has 
been found to fill the position of 
business manager.
[Ed. Note: Tartan News 
EditorJason Togyer contributed 
to this article.]
Carnegie Mellon in Brief
considered
AID, from page 1
based need became the new trend, standards would have to be set 
in order for the students to keep their scholarship. Incoming fresh­
men would be evaluated on their high school transcript while 
current CMU students would probably be given a set of require­
ments for keep their grant.
Pitt gives out university scholarships and students must main­
tain a 3.0 and be a full-time student. Pitt offers a full range of 
scholarships for incoming students, but their resources are not as 
strong as CMU’s. Potter said that with approximately 12,000 
undergraduates, they offer only about 40 full scholarships. Students 
selected for such scholarships were “targeted for academic excel­
lence,” and the scholarships are “purely academic.”
Another question surrounding the issue is the question of minor­
ity students. Potter said it would depend on the pool of minority 
applicants and said CMU probably has a higher quality pool. The 
issue of financial aid distribution has been argued at the federal 
level for years. Most recently though, is the question of “how we 
define the middle-class,” said Potter. “I don’t know if we’re ever 
going to do it.”
After the 1965 Higher Education Amendment, the Pell Grant was 
considered to be the cornerstone in meeting students’ financial 
needs, but with the introduction of loan services like the Stafford 
Loan, which is available to anyone, and recent abuses of the Pell 
Grant, distribution of the Pell Grant has been steadily declining. In 
October of 1993, the U.S. Senate held hearings on the abuses of 
college financial aid. They were investigating the misuse of $300 
million in Pell grants that were given out to 21 Jewish schools in 
New York City. The schools were never eligible to receive the grants 
but by inventing ‘ghost’ students with falsified social security 
numbers, they were able to obtain the grants.
Another problem brought up by the Senate is the fact that there 
is no limit to how many years a students can receive a grant. 
According to The Washington Post, the committee found out that 
2,500 people held Pell Grants for 11 consecutive years.
Calculating a family’s financial need is a complex process that 
involves listing their adjusted gross income and adding back exclu­
sions like 401 (k) contributions and other nontaxable income. Next, 
the family subtracts tax requirements and the ‘income protection 
allowance’ based on the number of family members.CMDS changes anger students
iorman leaving Student Activities
I Assistant Director of Student Activi­
ties Bonnie Gorman is leaving the Uni­
versity to take a new position at the 
linois Institute of Technology in Chi- 
. fg0-“It’s a nice opportunity,” said Gorman, 
who will become the director of the Cam- 
>us Union and Student Activities. “The 
josition is what was attractive to me. It’s 
real challenging—there’s lots of oppor- 
¡unity to do some new things. There’s a 
rery diverse student body [at IIT].” 
Gorman said that IIT is very similar in 
many ways to CMU. “It has a smaller 
undergraduate population. There are 
ibout1,800 undergrads and4,000 gradu­
ate students,” she said. “In terms of the 
types of programs they offer, [except for 
a lack of] drama and music, it’s almost 
identical.”
\ Gorman noted that IIT has a very 
‘"“•ong architecture department, and that 
any CMU architecture students were 
familiar with the school because of its 
itrong association with noted architect 
lies van der Rohe.
She leaves CMU in late September or 
¡arly October, and begins work at her
new job on October 17.
“My experience here has been wonder- Office at 624-8801. 
fill,” she said. “I really have enjoyed the 
students here. That’s why I do what I do.
I’ll be sorry to go from that standpoint.”
Pitt, CMU test new bus service
Carnegie Mellon University and the 
University of Pittsburgh have started 
an experimental cooperative student bus 
service which allows students to ride 
any of the two institutions’ shuttle buses.
During this period, which began in the 
summer and will continue through the 
fall semester, data will be collected and 
evaluated to determine whether the co­
operative arrangement provides cus­
tomer service, a more efficient transpor­
tation system and cost savings for the 
universities.
The cooperative arrangement does not 
apply to the institutions’ escort van ser­
vices. Neither university will increase 
its shuttle bus service, and there will be 
no additional cost to students. Sched­
ules for both bus services are available 
from Campus Police or on the shuttle 
buses. Questions or comments may be 
referred to the CMU Department of Se-
curity at 268-2323 or the Pitt Security
Cable failure causes blackout
Ablackout last Thursday plungedmost 
of the west end of the campus into dark­
ness for about an hour after a main 
power cable failed. Eon Carter, director 
of Physical Plant, said that a 480-volt 
power cable failed at 1:35 pm. The Stu­
dent Center, Hamburg and Smith Halls, 
Printing and Publications, and Field 
Robotics were all blacked out. Chief of 
Campus Police James LaPaglia said that 
the power knocked out his department 
as well. “Any fire and security alarms 
were not received,” said LaPaglia.
The department’s emergency genera­
tor is in the process of being installed. 
“We needed to move [into the Student 
Center] before the students came in,” 
said LaPaglia. Waitingforthenewemer­
gency generator to be installed would 
have delayed the move another three 
weeks.“We never lost our [two-way] ra­
dios or the phones," he said, “so we were 
able to respond to any calls, and people 
were able to call in. Fortunately, there 
were no problems.”
Carnegie Almanac
DINING, from page 1
that “all dining facilities” would accept 
DineXpress. That is not happening, be­
cause of the planning underway for a 
new food court. The food court will be 
placed in Building D and will include the 
Wean Wok, deli sandwiches, breakfast 
pastries and fountain beverages. There 
will be 30-50 seats for customers to eat. 
The court will accept DineXpress and 
according to Heydt, “We want it in ser­
vice by the end of October.”
CMDS did not want to spend the money 
installing the Validine machines at meal 
carts when they would have to do it 
again for the food court. The decision to 
have a food court did not come until late 
in the summer while the brochures 
were sent out in May.
The location was the subject of discus­
sion for some time. Many students on 
the west end of campus wanted a place 
where they could go for lunch or just a 
place where they could have a snack. 
“[Building D] was the best combination 
of cost and location,” Heydt commented, 
“It’s really a natural route for people to 
go from [the west end] of campus to 
Forbes Avenue.”
Skibo’s destruction also meant the loss 
of Scotland Yard. Some students have 
been fighting to get it back. Starting at 
the end of September and the second 
week of October “We will offer a limited 
scope’ of Scotland Yard,” Heydt said. It 
will be put in the Morewood Rec Room. 
For lunch it will be the Faculty Dining 
Room and starting at 5 pm it will become
Scotland Yard. Another change that has 
upset students is the decision not to 
allow Domino’s Pizza to accept 
DineXpress. “We felt we could provide 
equally appealing services to the stu­
dents on campus as opposed to having 
those dollars go to Domino’s.” They still 
will accept CampusXpress and until 
September 16, sophomores, juniors, and 
seniors can transfer their DineXpress 
money into the CampusXpress accounts 
without a penalty.
Sources close to Domino’s say that the 
pizza chain is very upset with the deci­
sion since more than 40 percent of their 
business comes from the CMU student 
body. “We would do anything to get [the 
students] back,” said Carol Cermak, a 
manager at Dominoes Pizza. Domino’s 
said that they were not informed of the 
change until Aug. 26. They had already 
sent out advertisements saying they 
would accept DineXpress. When asked 
why it took so long to inform Domino’s, 
Heydt said, “That was an oversight on 
our part from not having communicated 
it to them.”
With all the changes that have been 
going on, many students are confused as 
to where to go to eat. On top of all these 
changes, Heydt will be leaving the Uni­
versity soon.
“It’s time for a change. All parties have 
acknowledged that it’ll be good to have a 
new person here during the University 
Center construction,” Heydt said, who 
would not say when he would be leaving.
This week’s events on campus as reported by The Tartan: 
50 YEARS AGO: The Tartan had not yet resumed publica­
tion for the year.
25 YEARS AGO, September 5,1969: “Monday night a girl 
was attacked at gun point in Schenley Park,” The Tartan 
reported. “Schenley Park is not safe. Do not go there at night. 
You are risking your life”.... The new director of Camegie- 
Mellon Food Services, George W. Prillaman, said that his goal 
was to “serve the students, not to contain them.” He planned 
to reintroduce china and silverware in campus facilities and 
to solicit more student input.
10 YEARS AGO : The Tartan had not yet resumed publica­
tion for the year.
5 YEARS AGO, September 6,1989: The committee search­
ing for a replacement for retiring CMU president Dick Cyert 
announced that it had produced a “short list” of 
candidates....University Ombudsman Michael Murphy was 
appointed dean of Student Affairs....The new parking garage 
on Forbes Avenue was partially opened for business, with 
about 60 percent of the spaces in the garage usable.
Compiled by 
JASON TOGYER
IF YOU SEE NEWS...
.................... phone (answers 24 hours): 268-2111
Spp tips may be kept confi- email: tartan@andrew.cmu.efiudential. Remember, The Tar­
tan is your newspaper, but •
it only works if you get in- •
YOlved! OQ0OQOOOOOQOOOQ
THE TARTAN o,Carnegie Mellon University's Student Newspaper Since 1906
POSITION AVAILABLE
LIFE.' AVER
It doesn't take a lot to save liveo. All you have to do is give plasma 
And...we'll even compensate you
$20 to New Donors
Pittsburgh Blood Plasma 
1600 Fifth Avenue
391-9688
FULBRIGHT PROGRAM
Grants for graduate study and research abroad
Applicants must:
- be a US citizen at the time of application
- hold a B.A. degree or the equivalent before the beginning of the grant
- not hold a doctoral degree at the time of the grant
- have sufficient proficiency in the written and spoken language of the country of 
application
If this opportunity interests you, contact me for more information and an application booklet:
Joseph Rudman 
Wean Hall 7427 
X8-2775 
rudman@cmphys.phys.cmu.edu 
Campus deadline for returned applications is September 22, 1994.
62396PT 
NP09/95 03-097-00 wc |

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Construction destroys 
pastoral atmosphere
“Campus (n.) The grounds, 
sometimes including the build­
ings, of a school or college.” At 
least, that is Webster’s defini­
tion. Carnegie Mellon’s would 
perhaps be alittle more detailed:
Campus (n.) The fairly tree­
less grounds, sometimes includ­
ing the buildings, but more of­
ten holes that used to be build­
ings, of a school or college.
Campus has in folklore 
brought up positive connota­
tions of well-kept grounds and 
students relaxing outside. How­
ever, there appears to be more 
construction workers outside 
than students. For example, the 
immense hole that used to be a 
Skibo, and will be the site of the 
University Center (some day) is 
a visual menace. Not to say that 
Skibo was a vision of loveliness. 
We feel it is unfair that the 
current students will have to 
live with such a large part of 
their campus fenced in and ac­
cessible only to large yellow 
machines. Of course, much of 
the site will probably be tempo­
rarily cleaned up for homecom­
ing when all of the alumni come. 
Maybe the secret to seeing a 
beautiful campus is to graduate 
and come back for homecoming 
every year.
There are, in fact, numerous 
areas that seem to be undergo­
ing changes. The gym and the 
inside of CFA are both undergo­
ing‘facelifts’ (which seems to do
more covering up than lifting), 
while more important items 
such as the poor lighting in 
Doherty Hall go unnoticed. 
Those in charge also seem to 
feel that there were far too many 
trees here, as not only was the 
lawn in front of CFA depleted of 
trees, but there are also fewer of 
them next to the parking lot at 
Warner Hall. Let us also not 
forget the disappearance of side­
walks on the Cut, which has 
itself seen better days. In fact, 
as you walk around campus, we 
believe you will be amazed at 
how much construction (u-g-l-y, 
you ain’t got no alibi) is taking 
place.
Thinking from another point 
of view, what must prospective 
students think when they see 
how their campus would look 
for much of the time that they 
would be here? We believe the 
current students deserve better 
than to have to live with the 
carnage we nowbehold. We hope 
that sometime in the very near 
future, attempts will be made 
so that students will enjoy the 
beauty of their campus every 
day. Maybe efforts to truly beau­
tify campus couldbemade, such 
as: public art, more flora being 
planted, less destruction, and 
less false and expensive build­
ing renovation.
Then again, that would mean 
that students were actually be­
ing thought of.Do you know where 
your textbooks are?
Textbook retail has been 
moved to Building D between 
the Field Robotics Center and 
Wean Hall in the armpit of our 
campus. Office and school sup­
plies remain in the Baker Hall 
location, which is now called the 
University Shoppe; however, it 
now shares space with what 
used to be the Carnegie Shoppe 
and the Art Store. Over a de­
cade ago the Art Store was 
moved from its current location 
to Skibo because there wasn’t 
enough room. Now it has moved 
back and even though the text­
books are gone, all of the mer­
chandise from the Carnegie 
Shoppe is there as well.
Because of the tighter space, 
merchandise from what used to 
be three different stores has 
been reduced to fit into the most 
incompetent of the three origi­
nal retail spaces. Students won’t 
be able to find basic art, school, 
and office supplies they need 
and are used to having readily 
available. Why wasn’t space in 
the new Student Center used?
Many of the spare rooms in 
the Student Center are being 
used for classes. Sure, they origi­
nally moved the Art Store to the 
Student Center but then, ap­
parently, decided that there was 
too much room and that stu­
dents would be better served by 
shoving the Art Store in with 
everything else. Classrooms 
should be given space in aca­
demic buildings and not in a 
building intended for students’ 
extracurricular activities. These 
spaces could have been better 
utilized. After all, isn’t the pur-
Letters to the Editor
President lauds 
campus options
Editor:
Welcome, every­
one, to another year 
at Carnegie Mellon. LcttGF tO
Now that Skibo’s -> p...
finally demolished, Ine MlIO" 
some things have changed.
For instance, Scotland Yard will open 
early next month in the Morewood Rec 
Room. I’d like to thank Michael Murphy, 
Neil Binstock, Roger Heydt, and Kevin 
Lamb for their help in finding a new 
home for the Yard. It couldn’t have hap­
pened without them.
Also, Student Government and the 
Office of Student Affairs need to find
people to sit on disciplinary boards. Dis­
ciplinary boards meet when members of 
our campus community have disputes 
and file charges through Student Af­
fairs. Students and faculty members sit 
on these boards and decide what should 
happen. If you would like to be involved 
in the process, please let me know.
As student body president, I represent 
your interests to the faculty and the 
administration, so I need to know what 
you think and what you want me to do 
for you.
If you ever have any concerns, ques­
tions, or complaints, just give me a call 
at 268-6047 or send email to 
declan+@cmu.edu.
Declan McCullagh 
Student Body President
Letters to the f Editor policy
Letters to the Editor are opinions 
of authors who are usually, but not 
necessarily, members of the Uni­
versity community. A letter intended 
for publication must be signed and 
include the writer’s address and 
phone number for verification. 
Names may be withheld upon re­
quest. The Tartan requests that let­
ters be no longer than 500 words. 
TheTartan Editorial Boardreserves 
the right to withhold from publica­
tion any copy it deems unfit for pub-
Random thoughts inspire reflection
* Rnnak Sit
pose of a Student Center at most 
universities for the benefit of 
students?
Why was the Carnegie Shoppe 
given space in the Baker Hall 
location? It doesn’t serve fac­
ulty, students, or staff in the 
same manner that the bookstore 
and art store did. The Carnegie 
Shop primarily existed for 
alumni, parents, and family to 
buy gifts and memorabilia. It 
existed purely for profit. Yet, it 
has been moved to a convenient 
location while the textbooks, 
essential to all students, are 
moved to a very inconvenient 
one.
If the University wants to 
emphasize academics and make 
students a priority, it should 
indicate this by making text­
books easily accessible. As a 
better way of organizing the 
current locations we feel that 
all books shouldbe moved to the 
textbook store location to make 
room for more school, office, and 
art supplies which are needed 
more often.
The entrance area to the Uni­
versity Shoppe is as inconve­
nient as that location has al­
ways been. Placing the cash reg­
isters at the entrance forces cus­
tomers to navigate past the lines 
of people to get inside. This fur­
ther indicates how poor the 
Baker Hall location is.
Hopefully when the new Uni­
versity Center is built it will 
alleviate many of these prob­
lems, but until then we need to 
do the best we can with what we 
have -— as difficult as that may 
be with what we have now.
Ronak Singhal
Here are some random thoughts that occurred to me this 
summer:
Has there ever been a more haphazard law than the
season is underway.
• This summer seemed to be the summer of anniversaries^ 
First the moon landing and then Woodstock. Both of thes 
events have had remarkable influences on American life, bis 
not in the same ways. The moon landing created a new sens; 
of pride in Americans that has yet to be replicated, while it wa 
also the stimulus for extensive research and development tha-i 
we still benefit from today. The government back then w£1willing to spend the money on this long-term project; yet no'« i 
Congress continues to strip down the planned space static; 
assault weapons ban passed in the President’s Crime Bill because many members believe that it is nothing more tha| 
last month? Reportedly, Senator Diane Feinstein of Califor- “pork.” Maybe it’s time that some members of Congress loofl 
nia was given a book of guns and from this book she picked back at our Apollo program and see all that it created for u.:j, 
out the guns that she felt were the cause of crime in America On the other hand, we also “celebrated” the anniversary
today. Her rationale for the guns she picked was that the Woodstock. Multitudes of flower children could be seen tryin; * 
larger and more menacing the gun looked, the more deadly to relive the event and decrying the current state of affair; 
it must be. This process left many small guns legal that are saying that things were much better in 1969. Well, maybe on; i 
just as, if not more, deadly than the ones she made illegal, reason for that is their own values and behavior. The flowe 
The fact that less than one percent of the violent crime in children were rebels who seemed to prefer a form of anarch! J 
this country is committed using the weapons named by her which was portrayed best by the original Woodstock. To da)’"
apparently escaped her col­
leagues in Congress, as did 
the fact that Congress has 
now interfered with the per­
sonal lives of many Ameri­
cans. Who knows what will 
be outlawed next — maybe 
steaks because they contrib­
ute to clogged arteries (if the 
President’s health care re­
form bill is passed)?
Speaking of the Crime
The living conditions and ameni­
ties provided at some prisons far 
exceed what most college stu­
dents receive in the dormitories 
they live in.
lawlessness has become con 
monplace while hard work etfcj 
ics have been thrown out th 
door. It looks like the.only goo: 
thing to come out of the origi; 
nal Woodstock was the musift 
• President Bill Clinton raj ; 
on a platform that focused d 
the domestic issues facing on, 
nation, yet foreign affairs cot 
tinue to dominate his tim$ 
iticisrrThat in itself is not a criticisi
Bill (now law), did anyone in Congress realize exactly what of Mr. Clinton, for he should be extremely worried abou 
they were voting for? One of the most hyped provisions was situations such as North Korea, Cuba, Haiti, and Rwanda. I
the money for 100,000 new police officers over the next 10 
years; yet the money budgeted for this effort would only 
cover about 20,000 officers over that time, with the remain­
ing money having to come from local governments. This 
clause does not help the small towns that truly need more 
officers, because they do not have the necessary funds to hire 
additional policemen. In addition, the bill had provisions to 
help build new prisons. This is actually a good idea, but the 
cost of prisons today is a lot higher than it needs to be. I’d be
addition, the passage of NAFTA, the financial support given 
Russia, and the historic peace achieved in the Middle East ai 
all things that the President should be applauded for.
But if you look at that list, you notice that he had nothin; i 
initially to do with any of them. NAFTA was the product of ' 
Republican president and was passed only because of Reput 
licans in Congress; the aid given to Russia is just a continui 
tion of long-standing American policy; and America did n( 
even play a significant role in helping Israel and its Ar;i 
willing to bet that the living conditions and amenities enemies come together. Now the President faces situation 
provided at some prisons far exceed what most college where he alone must decide what to do. In North Korea, h| 
students receive in the dormitories they live in. faces a government that may possess nuclear arms and mi.
• Is it possible to support either side in the current not be afraid to use them. Haiti and Cuba both have goveri 
baseball strike? As a native of Pittsburgh, it seems necessary ments that neither we nor those nations’ citizens can stant 
to support the owners, because without a salary cap and which is why they are all coming here and causing a larg 
revenue sharing it seems that our beloved franchise could illegal immigration problem. And in Rwanda, he faces an are > 
soon turn into the Charlotte Pirates. with no law and order. These are, admittedly, extreme].'
However, as more teams with extremely low payrolls, such difficult issues, but these are the issues that a president mu' 
as the Montreal Expos, continue to succeed, while teams learn to deal with. The only thing that Clinton cannot do ij 
with exorbitant payrolls fail to win, the argument for rev- stand by and allow these nations to continue their tyranny.! 
enue sharing is that smart baseball management will al- • Our university has built a robot that has been to the bottor
most always beat open checkbook spending. of a volcano and may someday explore other planets.
On the other hand, the players aren’t exactly martyrs that Now, all that remains to be built is the University Center. D'
need more money. The average salary is over $1 million and you think they can do it? 
the players enjoy the greatest degree of free agency of any of
the major professional sports. Well, at least the football Ronak Singhal is a sophomore in CIT.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 6 September 19945
Parenthood calls for value review
7*__________
With my daughter Ellen’s birth, I have found 
myself thinking a great deal about what I have 
learned in my life. Not in terms of school, texts, 
or tests (most of which I have forgotten any­
way), but rather, I find myself trying to sum­
marize the important lessons that I hope to 
pass along, those that really affect how I live 
and view the world.
The most important lesson I have learned in 
my life is to be skeptical. Society has a tremen­
dous pull on an individual growing up, and 
tries to impart conventions and habits as facts 
and laws. However, many of these traditions 
serve more to keep order and to play to the 
lowest common denominator than to promote 
an examined and worthwhile life.
One thing I will teach Ellen is to always 
question, to reject what is told to or expected of 
people when no convincing, rational reason is 
given. This includes many of the sacred cows 
in our society, including a belief in some higher 
being; what disposition, job, or lover one should
have based on their sex; and which ani­
mals are to be cared for and loved and 
which are to be slaughtered and eaten. 
Being bora into this society, one is ex­
pected to be a Christian, heterosexual 
carnivore, aggressive and arrogant if 
male, agreeable and attractive if female. 
Yet these stereotypes, often defended as
ests of people with the good fortune to be 
bom within artificial, invisible lines on 
the ground (“American jobs ... our stan­
dard of living... our troops”), while oth­
ers are left to die of starvation or shell­
ing. We are taught to ignore their suffer­
ing because to help them is not in our 
“national” interests.
Generally, we seek out differences as a way 
to build ourselves up.
being part of “nature,” serve as destruc­
tive limits which foster only blind faith, 
intolerance, and suffering.
In addition to a blind faith in some 
religion created by other people, it is 
also important to reject blind loyalty to 
institutions. Starting early on, we are 
expected to be loyal to our schools, dis­
liking “opposing” schools, and taking 
great pride in the accomplishments 
(mostly athletic) of others who just hap­
pen to attend the same institution. This 
extends from state rivalries to national­
ism, where much is made of the inter-
Generally, we seek out differences as a 
way to build ourselves up. Pittsburgh is 
better (more important) than Cleveland, 
the U.S. is better than Mexico, Ameri­
cans are better than foreigners, whites 
are better than blacks, men are better 
than women, straights are better than 
gays, humans are better than every­
thing. This obsession with differences 
leads not to a more advanced society, but 
to inequality, oppression, and war. We 
celebrate the collapse of communism 
and apartheid as an advance of democ­
racy, and yet turn away when the Serbs
slaughter the Muslims, the Tutsi slaugh­
ter the Hutu, etc.
Malignant malice may exist in a few 
people, but in general, evil is the result 
of the banality of human nature. Blind 
faith and unquestioned acceptance of 
prejudices and superstitions - from rac­
ism to religion, sexism to speciesism, 
Nazism to nationalism - leads to all the 
prejudice and suffering that surrounds 
us.
Although the world is filled with injus­
tice, hypocrisy, and unthinking automa­
tons, I do not believe that everything is 
hopeless. As we concluded when dis­
cussing bringing another person into 
the world, both Ellen’s mother and I feel 
that it is possible to be happy. Leading a 
life where one decides for him- or herself 
what to believe and what to do, makes 
the effort to help those who cannot help 
themselves, and takes the time to live 
life instead of rushing from school to 
college to job to retirement to grave, it is 
possible to celebrate and enjoy exist­
ence.
Matt Ball is a father and PhD student 
in engineering and public policy.
{Monday classes came as surprise to many
Mahua Dutta
ti
Ci
I got a letter from the CMU 
housing department the day af­
ter my parents and I had deter­
mined when I would return to 
school. Due to work schedules, 
;he latest day I could return to 
campus, and for that matter the 
earliest I was willing to be on 
campus, was August 22. The let­
ter informed me that I could not 
arrive on campus earlier than 
August 26. The letter, complete 
with the threat of expecting stu­
dents to find a hotel to stay in 
until then should they come early 
without prior permission, made 
me jump. I envisioned myself 
stuck for four days in a cheap 
hotel with my entire life in the
trunk of my car.
Prepared to cry if I had to, I 
called up the housing office. I 
spoke with a person named Jeff, 
and, to my surprise, he didn’t 
hassle me. I explained my situa­
tion and he said, “Okay, you can 
pick up your keys at the A Tower 
deskin Morewood.” So, thanks to 
Jeff, I was able to arrive early.
Those few extra days really 
helped out. I was able to take care 
of scheduling problems, set up 
my schedule at work, and get 
settled in general. I was lucky. 
Others were not.
Most students were not able to 
arrive until Friday. These people 
had only the weekend to settle 
into campus housing. They didn’t 
complain about it, though. It was 
enough time. Besides, they 
thought they had Monday to take 
care of late registration and ev­
erything else. Then they logged 
onto email and discovered that
classes began on Monday.
Most of the people I encoun­
tered were shocked. The general
them a business day to settle their 
accounts? No offices were open 
Saturday or Sunday. How could
consensus was: How can they 
start us off on Monday and not let 
us come early? Where is the logic 
in planning to have students ar­
rive on the weekend and not give
Eric Watts/Tartan Artist
the administration expect stu­
dents to register, fix schedules, 
and buy books in between classes?
That’s for the students who 
learned about it prior to Monday.
I ran into about four or five people 
who didn’t find out until or after 
Monday. And how could they be 
expected to know? Yes, this is 
CMU, but not everyone checks 
his or her email immediately 
upon arrival. I never received 
any mailing informing me that 
classes would begin Monday. I 
didn’t see signs posted anywhere.
This is one of those plans that 
seems to harmless at first. Well, 
we’ve had problems with students 
coming early in the past. No prob­
lem. Arranging to come early was 
easy. Maybe we should also start 
classes on Monday. This is where 
the plan gets sticky. I’m surprised 
that no one in the administration 
saw a problem with this. I want 
to know whose brilliant idea this 
was, and I’d like ask that person 
not to repeat it.
Mahua Dutta is a senior profes­
sional writing major.
The destruction of Skibo 
displaced student organiza­
tions, eateries, gathering 
places, and campus retail 
stores. Most of Skibo’s con­
tents are temporarily housed 
in the Student Center. We 
asked students: What do 
you think of the Student 
Center?
Shahriar Ishtiaque
Freshman
Psychology/Biology
“It’s great. I love it.”
Robert Trace
Sophomore
ECE
Becky Herbster
Freshman
H&SS
“It’s OK given the conditions.” “I don’t know. I haven’t been 
there yet. That’s where I’m go­
ing right now.”
Jounghoon Lee
Junior
IM
“Itsucks. It’s small and there’s 
nothing. There’s no place to hang 
around.”
Bartley Troyan 
Junior 
Math CS/IS
“It’s poorly located and I can’t 
wait for the other one to open.”
Jill Goodall
Junior
Psychology
“It doesn’t have everything but 
it’s pretty nice.”
Jenny Clister 
Sophomore 
IS
“I think it’s kinda lame. 
There’s nothing there for stu­
dents, likeScotlandYardorGrey 
Matter.”
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photographer
Derek Shaffer
Sophomore
Undecided
“It’s OK for now.”
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Melton's Student Newspaper 
Since 1906
Duetoaleclkfesb....Andrew Sproule
mici­ec­ Dun .Samuel Greenfield
,shU Duetoa............Jason Togyer
voary Duetoa...............Abby Schlff
CdoatU Duetoa.............Eric Strauss
vsitrasU Duetoa........Eric Salzman
pewsaUeocU Duetoa ....Kathy Wright 
ki.scuia DuetoannnBrackett Horne 
poUUesa PetsaiaT Dun Lauren Heinz
5at kolDuetoaU..........Mark Eggert
Ramsey Hong
Ofoto Duetoa...............Jim Snyder
Oaour‘teoc m­a........Katie Chic­o
kodT mici­sa.........Eileen 94Cfsi
Systems m­a.......Chad McDaniel
5UUtn ,shU DuetoaU Angela Molloy 
Edward Hayes
5UUtn voary Du........Kris Hinrlchs
5UUtn CdoatU DuUnkiao.TcCSiaiui 
5UUtn pewsaUeocU Dun ...John Biggs
5UUtn Oaoun m­a......Derek Wahila
Ofoto Ctibb mici­sa .David Perry
Csceoa Ctibb 
Declan McCullagh
CtibbhaetsaU 
Jason Andrackl, Matt Ball, Jenni­
fer Sarkln, David Bazelon, Mahua 
Dutta, Jessica Fang, Andl 
Francioni, Shannon Gibney, Dan 
Goldwasser, AnuJ Gupta, Tom 
Harper, Jason Helnleln, Justin Lam, 
Matthew Messner, Jesse ,e‘sY 
Ronak Singhal, Jason Specland, 
Bethany Sutton, Jennifer Turner, 
Mike Walker, John Weber
Art
Gabrlen Symons
koye‘U
Jeffe Boates, Justin Carroll, Nick 
Casclato Jr., Matt Goldberg, Mark 
Kantrowitz, David White
Ofoto
Vlneet Agarwal, Bassem El-Dasher, 
Andrew Flores, Andrew 
McDermott, Pat Prasangslt, Maria 
Valenti, Cheryl Viaud
piaSaooy 
Jon Confer, Tom Gilbert, Evan 
Shechter, Margaret Stallings
Oaour‘teoc 
Becky Elroy, Ken Kraemer, Kathy 
Liu, Jason Ma, Carrie McDonough, 
Elizabeth Neuman, Eric Pettus, 
Jenna Sweteriitsch
kodT
Roshni Bhakta, Madhav Ghanta, 
D. Renee Hairston, Lisa Kruglak, 
Ed Slavlshak, Elizabeth Zambelli
•rUecsUU 
Christa Bower, Chlntan Shah
grceoa Ctibb 
Jin Bae, Robert Brunsklll, Chandra 
Bulst, Mlml Cheng, Kristen 
Connell, Seth A. Covitz, Samantha 
Gerich, Amy Haupl, Ron Kurtl, Buck 
Neel, Chin Oh, Matthew J. Solitro, 
Becca Stallings, Danlella Topol, 
Dawn Wallhausen, Vivien Weiss, 
Brian Young
The Tartan is the student newspaper of 
Carnegie Mellon University. It Is a weekly 
newspaper published by students dur­
ing the fall and spring semesters, at no 
cost to members of the University com­
munity. It is printed by Western Pennsyl­
vania Printing, Inc. Subscriptions are 
available for the semester or academic 
year. The editorials appearing at the 
beginning of the opinion section are the 
official opinion of The Tartan editorial 
board. Columns and political cartoons 
are the opinions of individual creators. 
The Tartan reserves the right to reject or 
condense any column or political car­
toon. Letters to the Editor are opinions 
of authors who are usually, but not 
necessarily, members of the University 
community. A letter Intended for publica­
tion must be signed and include the 
writer's address and phone number for 
verification. Names may be withheld upon 
request. The Tartan requests that let­
ters be no longer than 500 words. The 
Tartan reserves the right to condense or 
reject any letter. Copyright © 1994 by 
the Tartan. The Tartan editorial board 
reserves the right to withhold from pub­
lication any copy it deems unfit for pub­
lication.
Office: Student Center Room 103 
Phone: (412) 268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/ 
Carnegie Mellon University/Pittsburgh, 
PA 15213-3890
Funded In part by your Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.

---------------------------------------------------

HOW TO SAVE A FEW BUCKS.
(YOU CAN’T LIVE OFF PSYCH EXPERIMENTS ALONE.)
^ Buy pizza at closing time.
Haggle for slices they’d othenA/ise just throw away
^ Eat Ramen noodles.
^ Make friends with a Senior.
Come June, they'll be more than glad to give you 
their old Poly Sci books and couches.
^ Donate blood.
Save a life and get a free lunch to boot.
^ Pick up a Citibank Classic card.
There's no annual fee.
CITIBANK),Ci C
CITIBANK i '«
WE’RE LOOKING OUT FOR YOU.
To apply, call I-800-CITIBANK.
Apply for the Citibank Classic card by completing the application in this issue or by calling I - 800 - CITIBANK

---------------------------------------------------

Croo wde,mw ,uryt me nsan off
CMU picked as football favorites by UAA coaches
By JOHN WEBER
Vartan Staffwriter
Once again itis time for football, and the Carnegie 
Mellon Tartans are ready. The Tartans captured 
the University Athletic Association title in 1993, 
and they are expecting no less this season. How­
ever, despite their 8-2-0 record last season, they 
did not make it to the NCAA Division III playoffs, 
[n fact, even though the team has a 24-5-0 record 
over the last three seasons, the Tartans have not 
made it to the playoffs. This year, however, coach 
Rich Lackner is hoping things will be a little 
different.
All winning teams require good players and good 
coaching — the Tartans have both. Lackner, 
Carnegie Mellon’s 18th head football coach, has 
coached the Tartans for eight seasons and has 
compiled an impressive record of 59-18-2. Last 
year, Lackner was named the UAA Coach of the 
Year for the third time in four years. This year, 
with Defensive Coordinator Terry Bodnar and Of­
fensive Coordinator Rich Erdelyi leading a strong 
group of assistants, he will coach an experienced 
Tartan football team that has high expectations.
A recent UAA coaches’ poll picked CMU as the 
team to beat in 1994. Four of five coaches picked 
the Tartans first, and the fifth had them pegged for 
second, with Washington University of St. Louis 
picked first.
Last year the Tartans seemed to be on their way 
; to the playoffs for the first time since 1990 when
they hit a rut. The Tartans got washed away in two and junior Mike Mathias. Grusky was second on 
very rainy home games, first with a 20-9 loss to a the team in rushing last fall with 474 yards. Also, 
tough Allegheny team, and then a heartbreaking backing up Grusky and Mathias will be senior Jim
one-point defeat 
to Trinity. De­
spite roaringback 
and beating their 
last four oppo­
nents by a com­
bined score of 
204-21, their 8- 
2-0 record wasn’t 
good enough for 
the playoffs. If the 
Tartans had 
beaten Trinity, 
they would have 
made it to the 
playoffs. They 
missed the play­
offs by one point 
under the scoring 
system used to de­
termine playoff 
teams.
However, 1994
Tartan file photo
The Tartans hope quarterback Chris Dee (#9) and a strong 
ground game will lead them to another UAA title.
Filicko, a former 
starter who was in­
jured most of last sea­
son.
Grusky seemed con­
fident about the com­
ing season, saying, 
“We should go 9—1.” 
However, he isn’t sure 
the Tartans have 
enough to beat Al­
legheny College this 
coming weekend.
Junior Aaron Neal 
returns at tight end 
for the Tartans in 
1994. Neal led the 
Tartans with 29 re­
ceptions last fall. 
However, CMU will 
miss graduated wide 
receiver J arrod Siket, 
who last year led the
is a new season and the Tartans have much to look 
forward to. Back at the helm at quarterback is 
senior Chris Dee. Dee was an honorable mention 
All-American and first-team All-UAA in 1993, 
throwing for over 1,600 yards and 16 touchdowns. 
Behind Dee in the backfield are senior Jason Grusky
Tartans with 768 yards receiving and nine touch­
down grabs. The offensive line will feature two 
seniors at the tackle positions, Paul Volchko and 
Kevin Keir, with junior center Sean Keane in the 
middle. These three lineman were the main reason 
the Tartans were able to run the ball for an average
of 223.8 yards per game last year.
On defense, two of the Tartans’ top four tacklers 
from last year have returned, senior defensive 
back J oe Ferris and junior linebacker Mark Kasper- 
owicz. The Tartan defensive line is anchored by 
seniors Merle Atkinson and David Viszlay, while 
the linebacking corps features sophomores Ray 
Ardire and Ben Pfeiffer along with juniors Ray 
Lewis and E. J. Tsangaris.
In the secondary (besides Ferris), the Tartans 
will start juniors Rob Locke and Avinash Barat. 
Barat led the team last year with three intercep- j 
tions and three fumble recoveries while Locke led ; 
the team with 138 punt return yards. Backing up | 
Ferris, Locke and Barat will be sophomores Nathan ! 
Morgan and Albie Fletcher.
Last year the defense as a whole allowed only j 
14.7 points per game and posted two shutouts at 
the end of the season. The team as a whole went 4r- ,
0 in the UAA. Carnegie Mellon’s football program ; 
has accumulated 19 consecutive winning seasons, 
winning 79 percent of their games over that span, j 
Carnegie Mellon has won three University Ath- j 
letic Association championships and has only lost, 
one UAA game since the league started playing | 
football in 1990. And last, but definitely not least,! 
the Tartans have not been shut out in 206 straight! 
games since 1972. This is an NCAA Division III! 
record and the Tartans hope to continue adding to: 
their streak.
The team has two more road games before the 
home opener September 24 vs. Juniata College, j
Men’s soccer battered but ready for 1994
By MATTHEW J. SOLITRO
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
This fall, head coach Nick Gaudioso 
hopes to lead the men’s varsity soccer 
team to a 14th consecutive winning sea­
son. He feels that the Tartans also have 
an excellent chance to make the NCAA 
playoffs if they stay healthy. Gaudioso 
said, “We have excellent ball control 
skill and can move the ball well, but we 
do not have much depth.” With 30 play­
ers on his roster, depth may seem like 
it’s not a problem, but 13 are freshmen.
Leading causes of this year’s apparent 
lack of depth are the loss of four, four- 
year starters and injuries to a number of 
this year’s top players. Senior Jeff 
McJunkin may sit out some early games 
due to injury. McJunkin, a three-year 
letterman, is the most skilled player on 
the team and the key to the Tartan’s 
strength in the back, according to 
Gaudioso. Defenders Alan Levin, a jun­
ior, and Suraj Naik, a sophomore, are 
playing even though they are injured. 
Gaudioso is impressed with two new 
freshmen who are starting, Akira Imai
and Jason Buelow, but they still need 
some time to adjust to the college level.
In spite of these worries, the energy 
and skill level of the players will make 
for a very competitive season. The Tar­
tans will be 
looking to se­
niors Mike 
Brazinski and 
AlexAmezquita 
to find the back 
of the net.
Brazinski, last 
year’s MVP for 
the UAA, is not 
yet in top form, 
according to 
Gaudioso, but it 
is still early in 
the season.
Imai, a fresh­
man from 
Texas, is a small 
player who can 
create big plays 
from the middle. Senior goalkeeper Dan 
Warren, finally getting his chance after 
backing up David Shapiro, is looking
great in the net and has not let in a 
single goal in three pre-season scrim­
mages. When McJunkin, Levin, and Naik 
start feeling better, they will cause ma­
jor problems for opponents’ forwards.
Tartan file photo
Senior Jeff McJunkin is one of the leaders of the Tartans.
None of the problems seemed to stop 
the Tartans against Western Maryland, 
as CMU won 2-0. Levin and senior Vince
Russell scored, and Warren got the shut­
out, as the Tartans open the season 1-0 
going into a long home stretch.
In pre-season action, the Tartans went 
undefeated in their three scrimmages. 
In their opening scrimmage, they shut 
out Geneva 3—0. The team played Mount 
Union to a scoreless tie in their second 
pre-season game even though they had 
plenty of shots on net. “We must have 
out-shot them by about 25-1,” said 
Gaudioso. The Tartans won their final 
pre-season game against Duquesne 1-0. 
Gaudioso said, “We played better but 
had less shots.” The season looks prom­
ising, but Gaudioso feels that they need 
their first game to determine where the 
team is really at.
This year’s schedule includes eight 
conference games, a number of games 
against local Division III schools, and a 
game at the neighboring University of 
Pittsburgh. Last year, the Tartans al­
most beat this Division I team, but Pitt 
tied the game in the closing seconds. 
This year’s game promises to be intense.
The home opener is Wednesday 
against Washington and Jefferson.
Coach says volleyball picture looking up
By ERIC STRAUSS
Tartan Sports Editor
Despite opening the season with a 
home loss to Carlow College last Thurs­
day, women’s volleyball coach Heather 
Hollands is optimistic about the upcom­
ing season. Hollands, who is beginning 
her second season as head coach, said 
last year’s young team gained valuable 
experience, which they will put to work 
this year, hoping to improve on last 
season’s 9-29 record.
“I think it was a rough year last year. 
We lost six seniors, and they left a pretty 
big gap,” Hollands said. “I think [the 
experience] is really going to be to our 
advantage. We have a lot of players 
returning, to go with three freshmen, 
and that gives us more maturity and 
experience” than last year.
The team will be led by senior co­
captains Carolyn Skarada and Molly 
Brennan, with sophomore Sarah 
Pacocha providing some youth, Hollands 
said.
Although the 15-13,7-15,7-15,8-15 
loss to Carlow was not the start Hollands 
wanted, she said it wasn’t as bad as the 
score sounds. “You can be in shape- 
shape, but not game-shape, if you know 
what I mean,” she said. “If this is where 
we’re starting, we’re going to be okay. 
We have some athletic kids, and people 
came in in shape—we’ll have some good 
athletes this year.”
She also said she feels like the Tartans
can improve on last year’s sixth place 
UAA finish. “I think we’re definitely 
starting at a higher point, and going up,” 
she said. “It’s really hard to predict, 
though. I think maybe we can finish 
fourth or fifth in the conference this 
year. I’d really like to see that.”
But Hollands’ team had better get off 
to a fast start in September, because 
October will be a grueling month of road 
matches and tournaments. The team 
has only two more home matches, one 
Wednesday against Point Park College, 
and one September 28 against Chatham 
College. There will also be the Carnegie
Mellon Tournament on September 10. 
Otherwise, all of the team’s matches will 
be on the road.
“It will be kind of rough in October,” 
Hollands said. “Our season only runs 
through the 31st, so it’s a short season, 
but intense. We have [the two home 
matches] and that’s it. After that, we’re 
on the road every weekend. Of course, 
we do get to go to Atlanta and St. Louis, 
and other places — it’s a nice chance to 
see some parts of the country.”
Of course, Hollands is not letting her 
true goal get far away: “Last year, we 
had a lot of matches that were close in
score that we didn’t win. That doesn’t 
show up in the records; that’s just a win 
or loss. Hopefully that [losing close 
matches] will change; our experience 
will help.”
The next action for CMU is the Point 
Park match and the CMU tournament. 
The team then goes to the University of 
Pittsburgh-Johnstown on September 13, 
then the Marietta College Tournament 
on September 16-17. Then comes the 
UAA Round Robin tournament at Emory 
University in Atlanta on September 24- 
26. The Tartans host Chatham Septem­
ber 28 to end the month.
Gabrien Symons/Tartan artist
Women’s 
soccer looks 
to repeat1993 success
By ANUJ GUPTA
Tartan Staffwriter
World Cup soccer fever may have 
subsided, but soccer fever is just 
starting to take over the CMU cam­
pus as both the varsity men’s and 
women’s soccer teams start their
1994 quest to do what Roberto 
Baggio and the Italians could not 
do this summer — win.
The Tartan women’s soccer team 
started off their season this past 
Sunday as they took on regional 
rival and national powerhouse 
Kenyon College.
Although they lost the game 1-0, 
head coach Julie Shackford saw it 
not as a setback but a gain, saying, 
“we played well, and I thought it 
was a good first game.”
Their opener in Ohio was pre­
ceded the week before by a scrim­
mage against local rival Duquense 
University, whom the Tartans eas­
ily handled, winning the game by a 
score of 4-2. Junior Nicole Poisson 
was the star in the game as she 
scored half of the Tartans’ goals, 
and her cause was supported by 
senior Julie Paul and freshman Kim 
Umeda, who added one goal a piece.
The women’s soccer team is en­
tering its fourth year as a varsity 
program, following one year as a 
club sport, and is coming off its 
most successful season ever, when 
the Tartans posted a 13-4-1 record.
The four losses last year were 
against UAA rivals, but Shackford 
is seeking revenge this year as she 
says the biggest games of the 1994 
season will be against UAA rivals 
University of Rochester, Emory 
University, Brandeis University, 
and Case Western Reserve Univer­
sity.
The Tartans are coming off a year 
in which they inducted five new 
freshmen, who have all returned 
this year. Although they lost two 
senior starters, a forward and a 
sweeper, according to Shackford, 
“the team is a year stronger now, 
and a year more experienced.”
The starting lineup for the Tar­
tans will be sophomore Jill Weber j 
in goal; sophomore Marla Spontak, j 
junior Bridget Caster, sophomore [ 
Mae Hogan, and either senior Kathi j 
Watson or freshman Karlie Radford j 
all in the backfield; sophomore Jill \ 
Sincaglia, sophomore Alyssa;
jPlease see SOCCER, page 9!

---------------------------------------------------

political
peakers
orumF^oard
PSFB is a campus organization that brings con­
troversial, interesting, topical speakers to 
Carnegie Mellon.
Past speakers have included:
- Robin Morgan, former editor-in-chief of Ms.
- Joe Steffen, discharged from the U.S. Naval 
Acadamy for being a homosexual
- Camélia Sadat, founder of the Sadat Peace 
Institutue and daughter of Anwar Sadat
- Walter Williams, economist
- Zach Lyons, editor of Boycott Monthly
We have over $30,000 to spend on speakers (that's 
YOUR money from the Activités Fee. Why not 
help spend it?).
The Board is looking to fill four (4) open seats with enthusiastic, motivated 
people. If you'd like to join PSFB, it's easy! Just follow these simple steps:
1. Pick up an petition at the Info Desk in the Student Center.
2. Get twenty-five (25) signatures from members of the Student Body.
3. Submit the petition by the deadline, October 1.
(To be elected, a candidate must receive a majority vote of Student Senate)
Paid for by the Student Activités Fee
11) CariWic 
| i Mellon
CARNEGIE MELLON DINING SERVICE
WE RE WHERE YOU NEED US!
I The\Con• CONVENIENT CAMPUS 
LOCATIONS
• ACCOMODATING HOURS *- 
OF OPERATION
WIDE VARIETY 
OF DINING OPTIONS
JOIN US EARLY-JOIN US LATE 
7 DAYS A WEEK
0) c/i (/)Z z Z0 0 0a. a. clz> D o
0 0 0u o u
T^e Corner Oven Pìzza 
BUY ONE 16" PIZZA
T()e Corner Oven P¡//a 
BUY 1 52o/. SODA
U UH ¦§ ÜElHHHEIBSaHiœH Kl Æ/Ê I
T^e Corner Oven Pîzza J T^e Corner Oven Pi//A 
¦ BUY a WIioIe HOAG IE 1 BUY 1 APPETIZER
"ns i a 52oz. SodA FREE ide. a22oz. SodA 1L55"e. a 16oz. SodA FREEic.i s a ?2oz.SodA FREE
iii
\aHcI 7pM-l 1 dm Onlv.ExpiRES 9/50/94 ® VAlid 7pM-t 1 pM Only.ExpiRES 9/50/941 VaNcI 7pM-l I dm Only.! mhris 9/50/94^VMici /p*i-1 I pM <jr^lv.t xpiRis 9/50/94
if) U)z Z
0 9CL CL
D 3
O 0U O

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 6 September 1994
tartans rout F&M, 35-0
Senior QB throws four TD passes
By JOHN WEBER
Tartan Staffwriter
In 1972, Franklin and 
Marshall College defeated 
Carnegie Mellon 22-0. Nearly 
22 years and 205 CMU football 
games later, the Tartans de­
feated Franklin and Marshall 
35-0. In that 205-game span, 
the Tartans broke the NCAA 
Division III record by not being 
shut out once. And with their 
victory Saturday, the Tartans 
ran their record to 206 games 
without being shut out. The 
Tartan defense also registered 
its third straight shutout going 
back to last season.
On the first drive of the first 
quarter, the Tartans marched 
all the way down the field and 
scored. Senior quarterback 
Chris Dee hit junior running 
back Mike Mathias in the end 
zone from the two yard line to 
give CMU a 6-0 lead with 8:21 
left in the first quarter. The 
Tartans ended up going for the 
two-point conversion and failed, 
so the score remained 6-0.
Franklin and Marshall ran the 
ball three times and punted on 
their first possession. The Tar­
tans again drove all the way down 
the field 88 yards for their second 
touchdown. Sophomore running 
back Buck Neel ran it in from the 
18 yard line for the score. Again 
the Tartans went for the two, and 
this time Dee found senior Jim 
Filicko in the end zone to extend 
the Tartan lead to 14-0 after one 
quarter.
In the second quarter with 1:19 
left, Dee (from the five) found 
Mathias in the end zone again to 
increase the Tartan lead to 21-0. 
Carnegie Mellon took this lead 
into the locker room with them at 
halftime.
In the second half, the Tartans 
scored twice. Dee hit sophomore 
Casey Smith for a 34-yard touch­
down pass at about the middle of 
the third quarter, and then with 
11 seconds left in the quarter, 
Dee threw a 22-yard touchdown 
strike to freshman Ricardo 
Parrish for the Tartans’ fifth 
score. And that’s the way the 
game ended — with the Tartans
on top 35-0.
Highlights in the game in­
cluded four touchdown passes 
for Dee, 69 rushing yards for 
senior Jason Grusky and some 
very solid defense.
The Tartan offense pos­
sessed the ball for over 55 min­
utes of the game and gained a 
total of 417 yards. On the other 
side, the defense only allowed 
49 rushing yard s and 115 pass­
ing yards.
However, Grusky said, the 
Tartans didn’t play a perfect 
game. “We made some stupid 
mistakes. Two interceptions 
and a number of penalties hurt 
us.”
Franklin and Marshall 
turned the ball over three 
times while the Tartans 
turned the ball over twice.
Next week the Tartans will 
face possibly their biggest chal­
lenge when they travel up 
north to face long-time nem­
esis Allegheny College. Grusky 
injured his ankle in this past 
game, but still expects to play 
this weekend.
Give up, baseball fans — the season’s over
and feel the same.”
If one was to take a close look at 
all aspects of American history 
since the turn of the century, one 
would find changes of great mag­
nitude in Americana, all except 
for one thing. The only part of the
The Suicide Squeeze ^ich v“ T,lth‘stood the test of time has been 
by Antlj Guptd baseball. Every year since its in­
ception, there has been a World 
Series and a pennant race; rook­
ies have been called up; manag­
ers fired; veterans putting to­
gether one last glory year; a new 
ballpark; the underdog team has 
come out of nowhere, and on and 
on and on. But in 1994, the year 
in which health care reform fi­
nally got put on the table, the
IM NewsTartans start young team
ADMINISTRATION
Intramural Director: Mike 
Mastroianni, x8-2214 
Assistant Director: Mike
Grzywinski, x8-2214; 683-2938 
President: Jim Saxon, x2-3872 
Intramural Secretary: Michelle 
Matta, x8-2053
IMPORTANT DATES
Football Rules Clinic: Tuesday, 
September 6, 4:30, Small Gym 
1M Football Games Begin: Tues­
day, September 6,7:30, IM Field 
Co-Rec Volleyball Rosters Due: 
Thursday, September 8,4:30, IM 
Office
Tennis Rosters Due: Thursday, 
September 8, 4:30, IM Office 
IM Board Meeting: Tuesday, Sep­
tember 20,4:30, Gym Conference 
Room
Officials’Club Campus Jobs: Call 
Mike Mastroianni, x8-2214
CHANGES
I Intramural Board Meetings 
previously held at lunch time 
hours are now going to be held at 
4:30. The next IM meeting is on 
Tuesday, September 20 at 4:30 in 
the gymnasium conference room. 
All campus organizations are en­
couraged to send at least one rep­
resentative to these meetings. 
Come and see the new format.
E-MAIL ENTRIES
You can submit entry rosters 
by way of e-mail. To do this, fill 
out a roster that is provided in 
the b-board “official, athletic-dept- 
news.” You must use this form for 
all entries. All e-mail entries must 
be received on the Wednesday 
before the posted due date, no 
later than 4:30. Send them to 
nzl0+@andrew.cmu.edu
IM FOOTBALL 
SCHEDULE
Intramural Touch Football sea­
son begins this evening. A total of 
51 teams will participte in three 
different leagues. Majors and In- 
rmediates were combined to 
ake one league of 11 teams, 
inors will have 34 teams and 
the women’s league will have six 
¡ams. Stop by the IM Office for 
schedules.
TUESDAY’S GAMES
17:30pm: TX Beer vs DU Rippers, 
Field C
7:30 pm: DU Drunk vs Sudsuck- 
ers, Field D
8:30 pm: TX Silver vs Pioneers, 
field A
8:30 pm: Delt Scrubs vs PKT 
Outcast, Field B 
9:30 pm: Goodfellows vs Heinz, 
Field A
9:30 pm: Fight the Power vs Sig 
Tau, Field B
SUBMITTED BY 
Michelle Z. Matta
SOCCER, continued from page 7
Newman, junior Maria Cassella, 
and senior Chris­
tina Isaly in the 
midfield; and se­
nior Julie Paul, 
freshman Kim 
Umeda, fleet jun­
ior Nicole Pois- 
son, and sopho­
more Courtney 
Spence as thefor- 
wards.
Along with CMU is hoping 
Shackford, the 
staff features assistants Brooke 
Lang, Dave Potter and Jen Vescio. 
The manager for 1994 will be
sophomore Gary Trendel.
Although the University of 
Rochester 
Yellowjackets 
appear to be 
the favorite to 
win the UAA 
this season, 
Shackford is 
predicting a 
high finish for 
the Tartans as 
well, as she 
looks for the 
team to finish 
either third or fourth in the UAA 
for 1994, which would be its best- 
ever finish.
w
,•1
Tartan file photo 
to excel in 1994.
It was a dark and stormy night 
... Yes, I know, an extremely over­
used cliché — in Pittsburgh ev­
ery night could be described as 
such. But what you, the reader, 
may not understand is that this 
night was like no other, for it was 
the day that baseball died.
I cannot even remember the 
actual date upon which the 
strike started, nor do I care 
to. I don’t read about it, I 
don’t think ab out it, I don’t 
even care to watch ESPN’s 
Sports-Center anymore. I 
don’t rush out every 
Wednesday to buy the 
newest issue of Baseball 
Weekly, and in the morn­
ings I go first to the head­
lines and then to the en­
tertainment sections ofthe 
newspaper before I even 
think about taking an­
other glimpse at the unde­
ni ably ugly faces of both 
Richard Ravitch and 
Donald Fehr which seem 
to grace the front cover of 
every major sports page 
from Hoboken, New Jersey, to 
Pendleton, Oregon on a day in, 
day out basis.
“A little bitter?” you may be 
saying to yourself right now, as 
you wonder why someone like me 
could become so emphatic and 
emotional over a game so simple.
Well, my answer to that would 
be, “Yes, I am bitter and I hope 
that every other living, breath­
ing, human being that declares 
themselves abaseball fan will act
The Pittsburgh Symphony
Musicai
Onlyfor 6 concerts.
TO ORDER 
AND FOR 
MORE INFO 
CALL 
(412) 392-4900 
or complete 
the order form 
below
Fun, relaxing, 
refreshing
Reserved seating 
for each concert
in case of a 
schedule conflict — 
two Student 
Exchange Certificates 
for each 6-pack 
purchased
Other 6,12,18 or 24 
packs available!
No nasty aftertaste!
Friday A7 Series "Baton Wizardry"
Concerts begin at 8:00 pm
March 10
Charles Dutoit, conductor 
Mendelssohn Choir of Pgh
Works by Gould, Honegger's
Prokofiev and Joan of Arc
Tchaikovsky at the Stake
September 16
Lorin Maazel, conductor 
Julian Rachlin, violin
November 11
Lorin Maazel, conductor 
All-Star cast of vocalists 
Works by Barber 
& Wagner
February 3
March 17
Leonard Slatkin, conductor 
Jeffrey Siegel, piano 
Works by
Purcell, Rachmaninov 
& Corigliano
April 28
Eduardo Mata, conductor Lorin Maazel, conductor 
Stephen Kovacevich, piano Midori Nohara, piano 
Works by Works by Bolcom,
Buxtehude, Mozart, Prokofiev &
& Copland Tchaikovsky
KAUFMANN'STI iE Prrrsa LIDa vidPaeriy/ TeILr tnnhog p Music GLIobleI
SIX-PACK ORDER FORM
____________________ Series A7_____ X $45 = _
City/State/Zip
Phone (day)
School Name
# of seats
+ Handling Fee $2.50
Grand Total_______
Method of Payment
O Check (To: Pittsburgh Symphony) 
O AMEX O Discover
O Mastercard O Visa
Student l.D. Number
Mail to: Six-Packs
Pittsburgh Symphony 
600 Penn Avenue
Exp. date
Name as it appears on card
Pittsburgh, PA 15222-3259 Signature
Justin Carroll/Tartan artist
constant, warm, reassuring feel­
ings that baseball has provided 
to us over the years, much like 
the favorite bl anket, will be gone.
When and if baseball returns, 
the game will be a far cry from 
what we once knew it as. I do not 
know what the future of baseball 
holds, nor do I care to dwell on the 
fact, but if sometime soon Alexi 
Lai as ofthe U.S. World Cup team, 
and fluorescent pink Umbro 
shorts are held in the same breath
as DiMaggio and pinstripes, I 
won’t act surprised. (This is not 
to take anything away from the 
World Cup team, for they pro- ; 
vided us far greater entertain- 
ment this summer than Ravitch, . 
Fehr and 28 bickering owners.)
As for the average baseball fan, 
what can I say? My advice to you j 
would be to just forget about it' 
all. Act as if it’s an extended win-; 
ter; for we all know that no mat- 
ter what we say and how we feel, 
it won’t change a thing, and to 
make matters worse, we all know ; 
that we will return when the game : 
returns and probably be as en-, 
thusiastic as ever.
Even with all the psychological 1 
and physical obstacles that wel 
must overcome, such as I 
the fact that just say-, 
ing the words “salary! 
arbitration” leaves a! 
bitter taste in our! 
mouths, the allure of! 
nine innings, three! 
outs, 90 feet, and three 1 
strikes will still be the! 
same.
And so that leads me ! 
to a final introspective ! 
question in a column 
which is usually filled ! 
with stats,figures, pre-! 
dictions, contradictions 
and results — why do j • 
we follow a game with j 
all our hearts when it, 
breaks them more of­
ten than not? Whether! 
it be on the field or at the bargain- ¦ 
ing table, I still find myself look- j 
ing for the day in which the game i 
of baseball fulfills everything 11 
could ever wish from it.
And so that is the reason why; 
we will return, willing or not, and1 
for all of the oncoming changes, 
the love of the game will remain' 
constant.
Anuj Gupta is a junior public ‘ 
policy and management major. ;
There Is an easier, way to get an /\ +
John needed help. Out of nowhere a flash of light 
appeared. "Want to get your work done 5 times faster” 
said the Wizard? “OH YES!' said John "Let me show 
you how with XperCASE...11 said the Wizard.
Just$99
Witfc a mail-m coupon upon 
purchase at your bookstore
John turned a 5 hour assignment into a 1 hour assignment with 
XperCASE by Siemens. He put himself at the top of his class by learning 
to use XperCASE case tools now and not waiting until after graduation.
Peter Coffee of Computerworld Magazine, gave XperCASE a 3.7 GPA.
Peter's overall summary "XperCASE turns raw source code into clear, 
easy to edit structure diagrams using several high-level languages. For 
programmers faced with polyglot re-engineering tasks, these Windows- 
hosted tools are cost effective and easy to learn".
Associate Professor, Pi-Shen$ Deng, PhD., of California State Univer­
sity summary of XperCASE. "XperCASE provides an unparalleled user 
T’tcrface 1 would like to rank it as a very powerful and the most user 
•nnndiy ¡-Case tool in the market".
So, if you're taking ...
C, C++, Cobol, Clipper, Fortran, D-Base, Fox-Base or any other 
programming language - get a big advantage by discovering what 
professors and students across the country have to say about the power
of XperCASE; + It is excellent for analyzing code * Encourages language 
~^ope^dent design before new coding begins. * Its drag-and-drop 
•trCTO« <;"'d linkage with other tools makes it easy to learn and use.
GO TO YOUR BOOKSTORE TODAY AND BUY XperCASE. AS 
THE WIZARD SAID "THERE IS AN EASIER WAY TO GET AN A+".
• -iwore Requirements At least a 80286 computer with a hard disk drive supporting DOS., 1.5
v • ,.f Y5 -3 -memory A hard disk drive with 1 MB free memory, A graphics display supported by
•' -.w-.-j 134 Software requirements DOS 3 0 or higher., Microsoft Windows 3.0 or higher.

---------------------------------------------------

%<ò\ On-Campus Recruiting
VVIX 10QÆ_1QQC ,
l nne Morrison
Michelle Adams • Ira Androphy • Steven Averbach * Robert Avoletts • Michael Avotins * Susan Baker * John Benchoff * Marc Beriove * Deborah Siiman • Timothy Biass • David 
Bloom • Douglas Brashear * Michtk W * I t niVfnwnU. . L^ter Chin * Kelly Clark * CharlesSSM .J^^iiyfl,Carnegie MeMoii University...
Sean Goldstein • Paul Gonzalez » Terrance Graham * Alien Harding • Matthew Hargis « Daniel Heilman « Jason Herman • Harold Herre * David Hersh * Esther Ivon/ • kip Jackson 
Jonathan Kaplan « Paul Karlin • Bryan Kearney • Jennifer Kerstein • Labovich • Mary Diane Langston • Briar; Lee • Linda Liao * Chin Lo *.
Bruce McCaffrey • Douglas Mitchell • Cheryl Montgomery • AnneTimothy Loungeway * Lisa Magyar • Cassandra Maione * Andrea
Morrison • Daniel Muchnok * David Murrell • Hitika Nath • Ton 
• Margaret Ponds • Renee Potash * Sandra Potter • Linda 
Rothwell • Michelie Sakamoto • Neil Schiisserman • Daniel 
Marianne Vakiener * Jason Webb - Chris Wittmarih • David 
Baker • John Benchoff * Marc Beriove * Deborah BUman *
Ronald Canova * Louis Carr • Daphne Chigas « Lester Chin *
Gaylord • Jeffrey Gerber » Mark Glasser • David Goldbaum 
Heilman • Jason Herman * Harold Herre • David Hersh * Esther 
Kubitz • Gary Labovich • Mary Diane Langston • Brian Lee * Linda Liao *
Terrence McAlister » Bruce McCaffrey * Douglas Mitchell » Cheryl Montgomery 
Padmanabhan • Thomas Pagano « Qvtetoafar Pfeiffer • Victoria PfflHfm • LamentMargarethenee
• Lewis Price * Valerie Pushwa «
Gordon Sheppard * Steven Shubelia • Gérard Stocker » Janet Swann • Leslie Tam
• Christopher Pfeiffer * Victoria Phillips * Lawrence Roister 
• Victor Rios •John Roidnd * Michael Rosen * Michael 
• Gerard Stacker * Janet Swann » Leslie Tam • 
Averbach Robert Avoietta * Michael Avotins * Susan 
Bruce • Robert Butler * Mark Caiem * Nora Callahan-*' 
Davis « David Orach • Carol Evans • Carolyn Firth • Mary 
Terrance Graham * Allen Harding * Matthew Hargis * Daniel 
Karlin • Bryan Kearney • Jennifer Kerstein * David Klein • Jenifer 
Lisa Magyai • Cassandra Metope * Andrea Mark * John Mathias •
• Daniel Muchnok * David Murrell * Rrtika Nath » Tony Niderost • C'nandresh 
• Sandra, Potter* Linda Preston • Thomas Preston 
'UManl'l meniel Schmlckel« Ryan Schnrmdl * 
¦larianne Vakiener • Jason Webb * Chris Wittmann David Wolpert * Lori Zuti • Michelle
Adams * ira androphy < ^MS helps clients throughout the world improve their performance through the intelligent use of information
Douglas Brashear * ML technology.
DdiiQ ID Ai&sscunrfro * ¿_cWe are looking for individuals with strong analytical and/or technical abilities who are interested in challenging
* Paui Gonzalez * Terra opportunities in a dynamic environment.
Kaplan * Paui Karlin • i
AMS will be conducting on-Campus interviews for worldwide opportunities on November 17,1994 and February 
2,1995. In addition, we will be hosting a corporate Presentation on October 4th and participating in the TOC and 
«Daniel Muchnok»Das BOC. Submit your resume to the career center or forward one to Allen Jones, Manager, Corporate Recruiting, 
Ponds • Renee Potash American Management Systems, Inc., 4000 Legato Road, Fairfax, Virginia 22033-4003.
AMS has a lot to offer... Just ask the Carnegie Mellon grads who are already here.Michelie Sakamoto • A 
Vakiener * Jáson Webb 
John Benchoff • Marc Beriove « Deborah Bi/man • Timothy Blass • David Bloom
David Bloom * 
iries Connors • 
Sean Goldstein 
son • Jonathan 
n Lo * Timothy 
Anne Morrison 
. ster » Margaret 
làel Rothweii « 
3m - Marianne 
ii:iO ~ Susan Baker•
Canova • Louis Carr • Daphne Chiaas • Lester Chin • Kelly Clark * Charles Connors .....American Manac
f ar * Michaei Bruce • Robert Butlei * Mark Caiem » Nora Callahan • Ronald 
'’stems31n3v,s * Drach • Carol Evans • Carolyn Finn * Mary Gaylord
• Jeffrey Gerber • Mark Glasser • David Goldbaum * Philip Goldstein * Sean Goldstein *> Paui Gonzalez • Terrance Graham * Allen Ha'dina * Matthew Hargis * Daniel Heilman *E.O.E.
Jason Herman • Harold Herre * David Hersh * Esther lvor\' » Kip Jackson » Equal Oportunity Employer: , ? Kearney • Jennifer Kerstein * Davio Klein r Jenifer Kubitz * Gary
‘Tie sty’s no [ongzr the iimit witfi ftir ‘force %OTC
If you’re shooting for the stars, Air Force ROTC is a great place to start. You’ll learn valuable leadership 
skills and have the opportunity to be at the forefront of next century’s technology. What’s Air Force ROTC 
all about? Sign-up for our classes and we’ll show you-without any obligation. We also have scholarships 
that are out of this world, they cover up to full tuition for three years. Give us a call and we’ll explain your 
options and opportunities with Air Force ROTC.
Capt Tim Fisk 
268-8747

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 6 September 199411
eptember hopes erase 1993’s disappointments
Quarterback Sneak
by John Weber
The chill in the air tells us that 
it’s football season, and what a 
¡ason it looks like it’s going to 
be. The key phrase this year is 
-“two-point conversions.” No 
mger will fans start to leave 
¡whenit’s 21-13 at the two-minute 
warning. Teams will now have 
the choice to finish their oppo- 
ient off or go to overtime when 
bout to score and down by seven. 
The last-minute excitement en­
joyed for so long in college foot- 
jjall is finally coming to the NFL. 
(Yea!)
| Speaking of the excitement, 
Jet’s take a look at the American 
Football Conference. Boy, I hope 
the Bills don’t go to the Super 
Bowl for the fifth time. However, 
the Bills feel differently. They 
•seem to feast on the fact that they 
-have gone four times and people 
don’t want to see them go again. 
Their only goal these last two 
years seems to have been just to 
'make it to the Super Bowl. They 
really aren’t too worried if they 
, win or lose. The worst part is that 
they actually have a chance. They 
lost Mark Kelso during the 
offseason, but their offense is still 
for the most part intact. This of­
fense will lead them to their sec­
ond straight Eastern Division 
title, but expect the playoffs to be 
a little bit different this time.
The rest of the AFC East will 
not be as tough as some seem to 
think. The Dolphins will make
the playoffs as a wild card, but 
Dan Marino is too old to lead 
Miami much further. Also, the 
Dolphins’ young defense has not 
developed as coach Don Shula 
hoped it would.
The Jets will come in third in 
the division with around eight 
victories. Boomer Esiason will 
have Rob Moore and Art Monk to 
throw to this year, but the Jets 
are just too old to win enough 
games to be a threat to Buffalo. 
The Patriots and Colts will battle 
with each other to stay out of the 
cellar. Bill Parcells is agood coach, 
but come on, Patriots fans, give 
him a few more years. The Colts 
will miss rookie linebacker Trev 
Alberts, but will win a few games 
with running back Marshall 
Faulk. Jim Harbaugh will play 
okay for the Colts at quarter­
back, but Don Majkowski may 
take over the team before the end 
of the season.
The “Stille^s” will look to pick 
up where they left off last year. 
Last year when Barry Foster got 
hurt against the Bills, the Steelers 
were the best team in the AFC. 
After his injury, the Steelers 
dropped a few rungs on the AFC 
ladder in a hurry. The Steelers 
should win the AFC Central with­
out too much trouble and have a 
good chance to make it to the Big 
Show this year. The Steeler 
“bandwagon” will be driven by 
Greg Lloyd and it won’t stop for 
anybody. Expect a lot of excite­
ment from rookie Charles 
Johnson. This guy can catch, 
something the team couldn’t do 
last year. Neil O’Donnell, with 
the addition of another offensive 
weapon at wide receiver, will have 
one of his best years to date. How­
ever, the defense is basically the 
same as last year. Ray Seals has 
yet to impress me at defensive
end and the defensive line as a 
whole is still having trouble stop­
ping runs up the middle. If the 
Steelers stay healthy and shore 
up their defensive line, they could 
very well be the AFC representa­
tive in Miami in January.
The rest of the AFC Central 
has nearly fallen apart. A book
sibly even the Super Bowl. I won’t 
be surprised if the Chiefs and 
Steelers have a playoff rematch 
in the 1994 AFC Championship 
Game. The Chiefs still have 
nearly the same team as last year, 
with the addition of the under­
rated Steve Bono at backup QB. 
They will be tough this year.
The Broncos, 
with John 
El way and a 
bunch of other 
offensive 
threats, will be 
in second place. 
Anthony Mill­
er and Shan­
non Sharpe 
will give the 
Broncos plenty 
of points, but 
Mark Eggert/Tartan Art Co-Editor defense
could be written on how many 
players the Oilers lost to free 
agency. The Oilers’ defense has 
been wrecked by free agency and 
the loss of Buddy Ryan. How­
ever, the Oilers still have Cody 
Carlson, Gary Brown, Ernest 
Givens, and Haywood Jeffires on 
offense. The Oilers’ offense will 
keep them in many games this 
year; expect them to win about 
eight or nine games.
The Browns lost their big ad­
vantage against the run when 
they lost Jerry Ball to the Raid­
ers. Otherwise the offense and 
defense are about the same as 
last year so give the Browns seven 
or eight victories. Finally, the 
Bengals: defensive lineman Dan 
Wilkinson will help them win a 
few more games but otherwise, 
forget it. Better luck next year.
The Chiefs will be on top of the 
AFC West again this year—don’t 
let anybody tell you otherwise. 
Joe Montana and his gang will 
charge into the playoffs and pos-
will contribute too little. The 
Broncos won’t get far into the 
playoffs.
The Raiders have the same 
problem as the Broncos—plenty 
of offense, but a shaky defense. 
The Raiders also don’t have a 
good running back or anything 
that even resembles one. For this 
reason, the Raiders could miss 
the playoffs this year. The
Seahawkswillgetoutoflastplace 
this year. Cortez Kennedy had a 
tough season last year, but he 
will have a better season this 
year. Rick Mirer and running 
back Chris Warren will help the 
Seahawks win six or maybe seven 
games. The Chargers are in 
trouble. If Stan Humphries gets 
hurt, the Chargers may not win a 
game this season. I like Junior 
Seau in the middle of the Charger 
defense, but otherwise things look 
pretty bleak for the Chargers.
Next Week: Preview of the 
NFC.
John Weber's Top Five 
Picks for Week 2
1. Pittsburgh at Cleveland
The Steelers will erase some of 
the bad memories they have had 
in Cleveland with a grind ’em out 
victory. Don’t expect too many 
pretty plays; look for hard-nosed, 
down and dirty football.
Steelers 21-16..
2. San Francisco at Kansas 
City
Student vs. Teacher at last. 
Steve Young will impress, but 
Joe Montana will remind Young
classified
JOBS
Pittsburgh Public Theater
FIVE PLAYS FOR $50
I IniVi-i si I v lulrnK i ;m rxpri iciii «• ¡1 mi . 'I r\p|i >-.|\v li\ r < ii .1111:1 ;il
mu- >il Aim'll« ;i’n li'iiilin;'. 1 »*!• i« »11 I lu;ii«i «• l«w l«'*»s 11 i;i 11 li.ill 11 u* i «imi1.ii 
mi1>m 1 ipii«m piii i- ;uul li ss limn nn<- 1 lm«i ¦ >1 1 «*i*ul;n nimj'.I«' 11« k«• 1 pi i« »••»!
l lu- P.iNkV 20lh Anniwr.siry Scii.-on Includo.
Filly Million Frenchmen
Colo Porters musk:;] I comedy tour of Paris in the A go
Lady Day at Emerson’s Bar & Grill
A soaring tour-de-force about the life of Billie Holiday
As You Like It
"All the world’s a stage" in Shakespeare’s fast-paced romp
CALL THE BOX OFFICE NOW: 321-9800
Choose from 3 different fundraisers last­
ing either 3 or 7 days. No investment. 
Earn $$$ for your group plus personal 
cash bonuses foryourself. Call 1 -800-932- 
0528, Ext 65
Wanted!! America's fastest growing travel 
company is now seeking individuals to 
promote our super spring break trips to 
Jamaica, Cancún, Bahamas, Florida, South 
Padre and Barbados. Fantastic free travel 
benefits and the best commissions. Call 
Sun Splash Tours today for your free 
information packet. 1 -800-426-7710
Caring, "energetic" nanny for twin boys 
age4. 35-40 hour week, Monday through 
Friday, no evenings. Additional weekend 
hours available, not necessary. Pleasant 
surroundings, Shadyside. Opportunity for 
caring individual to play signifigant role in 
toddlers lives. No heavy housework. Non- 
smoker. Own transportation, with car. 
References. Call evenings, 681-3385
Drivers wanted for expanding delivery 
chain. Earn $7 - $12/hr. No experience 
necessary. Contact Pizza Outlet (Pitt/ 
Oakland) 687-9555
Deadline
Deadlinefor submis­
sion of classifieds to 
The Tartan is 5 pm 
the Thursday before 
publication.
who won the Super Bowls. Look 
for the last minute drive to win it. 
Chiefs 28-24.
3. Houston at Dallas
“Commander” Cody Carlson 
will keep the game close in the 
first half, but in the second half 
“Da Boys” will run away with the 
game (Give Emmitt Smith 200- 
plus yards).
Cowboys 38-21.
4. N.Y. Giants at Arizona
Buddy Ryan’s new tandem of
Seth Joyner and Clyde Simmons 
on defense will shred the Giants’ 
offense and beat up on quarter­
back Dave Brown. One or two 
good drives by the Cardinals will 
do it.
Arizona 13-6.
5. Miami at Green Bay
On paper this game may look 
like a shootout (Dan Marino vs. 
Brett Favre); however the Pack­
ers’ defense will come out the 
winners in the end.
Green Bay 28-17.
Crow de,em uy t yewurm nusua 
ewiuweemuwi ftgrmp Pe tayr nrsemy 
c’b —rr1,taa —rm 9oe 9tm1twp
Club Leaders for Young judaea. Respon­
sible, creative, must like children. Judaic 
background required. Sunday meetings. 
September-April employment. Salary plus 
expense. Licensed driver. Call Young Judaea 
Regional Office, 521-4877
HOUSING
Carriage House Condo Ideally located 1 
mile from Forbes Metro Hospital, 2 blocks 
from Express bus. 1 bedroom, equipped 
kitchen, over-sized living room with cathe­
dral celling, and roomy loft area. Low 40's, 
241-3947
Classified Rates
1-20 words...........$5.00/wk
21-50 words.........$8.00/wk
51-100words....$10.00/wk
•Classifieds must be paid in 
cash or by check before the 
first-scheduled run date.
•On-campus departments 
and organizations may pay 
by journal transfer with a 
valid account number.
•Due by 5 pm the Thursday 
before publication.
The Tartan Business Office is 
looking for some students to 
heipsolicitadvertisementsin 
the local area. Workers wil be 
paid on commission. If you are 
interested please call Andrew 
Sproule at The Tartan Office, 
X8-2111.
THE TARTAN 
268-2111
Student Discount
HAIRCUTS $16.95
a • (Men and Women) <
r rS VThe Philip Pelusi* salons offer great 
savings on the exclusive Volumetries® haircut 
to students. Get the internationally acclaimed 
Volumetric5 haircut and related services for just 
$16.95 with selected designers. Every haircut 
appointment includes consultation, shampoo- 
; ing, conditioning, blow dry and styling and a 
styling lesson!
Present your Student ID Card to get your 
Student Discount Card.
Ask About Design Team 
Training Sessions, Haircuts Just $ 10.95.
Philip Pelusi^) >
A Cut Above the Rest'
Squirrel Hill 521-1200 
One Oxford Center 261-0550 
Century III Mall Ó55-Ì940 
Village Sauare Mall 833-0770
Ross Park Mall 366-1555 
Robinson Town CenTre 788-0204 
Monroeville Mall 372-7520 
Westmoreland Mail 336-6670
29 Years
WordPerfect
QuattroPro5
.vT~
*99
WordPerfect 6.0 DOS 
and Dlcllonary
The most powerful DOS 
application ever!
* i£-----
s49
WonTerfect Presentations 
2.0 for Whdows or DOS
The ultimate tool for graph­
ics and presentations!
Duetoaelack is a registered trademark of Novell. Inc. All olher brand or product names are registered trademarks ol Uieir respective companies. © 1994 Novell. Inc.
SPECIAL LIMITED-TIME 
OFFER: WordPerfect 6.0 for 
Windows, Quattro Pro 5.0 for 
Windows, and Random House 
Webster’s Electronic Dictionary 
and Thesaurus, College Edition.
See your local campus reseller for 
more information.
Macintosh Student 
Essentials wpmoc 3.0,
electronic dictionary, 
golf game, and more!
H WordPerfect
Novell Applications Group

---------------------------------------------------

BIG CHANGES IN RETAIL SERVICES!We’ve moved!
,DF :D«:•997 C:9'D 89I'C
1 :fs tascu ob Tora tsMtNooS NrTec­ dittsac asb.s‘tU tfit iddaoMeyits.T 0G6 ob i.. tsMtNooS
dra‘fiUsU ias yius hetfec tfs beaUt tho hssSU ob tfs Utiat ob ‘.iUUsUn
1 5btsa CitrauiTY CsdtsyNsa 3$Y tfs Utoas he.. fiws asur‘su foraU to i‘‘oyyouits tfs
­asit.T asur‘su usyicu boa tsMtNooSUn
1 Ctoas foraU he.. Ns odsc mocuiT icu :rsUuiT baoy 0 inyn to ,ooc icu ‘.oUsu FsucsUuiT
tfaor­f CrcuiTn
1 5U ec tfs diUtY tfs :sMtNooS Ctoas he.. ‘octecrs to fiws sMtscusu foraU daeoa to icu uraec­
tfs Ns­eccec­ ob i UsysUtsaY i yecelUsysUtsa oa i Uryysa dao­aiyn
1 2b Tor cssu i tsMtNooS icu ‘iccot ­st to tfs :sMtNooS Ctoas uraec­ tfsUs foraUY ‘i.. M0Az—W
icu hs he.. Ns fiddT to hoaS hetf Tor icu iaaic­s boa Tor to dra‘fiUs Tora NooSUn
1 5btsa tfs yeulUsysUtsa NasiS hs he.. aswesh Tora ‘oyysctU icu yiSs icT cs‘sUUiaT fora
iu’rUtysctUn
:D«:•997C
1 ,oh iwie.iN.s it tfs :sMtNooS Ctoas ec •re.uec­ p Nsthssc Fsic 8i.. icu ves.u 'oNote‘Un 
5': CIOOP2DC
1 ,oh iwie.iN.s it tfs IcewsaUetT Cfodds ec •iSsa 8i..n
kP9:82,E q mDm9'5•2P25
1 ,oh iwie.iN.s it tfs IcewsaUetT Cfodds ec •iSsa 8i..n
Ck899P q 9vv2kD CIOOP2DC
1 5wie.iN.s it tfs IcewsaUetT Cfodds ec •iSsa 8i..Y Nrt asysyNsa to ­o to •re.uec­ p boa
tsMtNooSU“
D,:'9O"
1 ,oh .o‘itsu ec tfs Ctrusct ksctsan
'D:52P ,DFC
1 7ssd rdltoluits oc Utoas foraUY Uds‘ei. daoyoteocUY csh daour‘tU icu otfsa astie. cshU
d.siUs asiu tfs ••oiau jobbe‘ei.nastie.lUsawe‘sU-
FD F5,: :9 8D5' v'9m "9I
1 O.siUs Uscu Tora ‘oyysctU to OittT Cti‘saY mici­sa ob 'stie. Csawe‘sU wei 5cuash mie.
dUR$ oa ‘i.. M003W*n
HAVE A GREAT SCHOOL YEAR!

---------------------------------------------------

Volume 89, Issue 1The Tartan. Carnegie Mellon University. Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania6 September 1994
¥ ¥1 7T^ T iOl H HDE1Q ?£!???LiynW
Class of ’98 enters CMU 
community with a bang
Imagine twelve hundred fresh­
men all running around trying to 
find their groups, crashing into 
one another. It was total chaos. 
“August? Is this August?” 
“Where’s May? Are there any 
May people? Am I the only per­
son bom in May?”
According to Caldeira, ”The 
freshman class took to it pretty
Orientation counselors demonstrate for freshmen how to get into the 
spirit of things at Playfair (above). Freshmen stand back as orientation 
entertainment breathes fire, perhaps an indication of classes to come 
(below).
,
By JESSICA FANG
Tartan Staffwriter
Orientation 1994 kicked off on 
Tuesday, August 23rd. Orienta­
tion counselors had undergone 
five days of 13 hour-a-day train­
ing the previous week.
The counselors learned just 
about everything there is to know 
about Carnegie Mellon so that well. The class came together as 
they would be prepared to an- a whole.”
swer the questions put to them Another ice breaker was locat- 
by incoming students. ing a member of the opposite sex
Training also consisted ofleam- with the exact same birthdate as 
ing how to deal with different you. This was kind of a problem, 
personalities in order to help since, in following CMU tradi- 
counselors entice those reluctant tion, there were nine hundred 
freshmen to get involved in the guys and three hundred girls, 
activities.
Jason Caldeira was 
one of only five counse­
lors who had worked 
on two orientations in 
the past. “Hopefully 
orientation is as im­
portant as we think it 
is,” he said. “We try to 
make it a memorable 
experience.”
Freshmen, many 
accompanied by par­
ents, arrived on cam­
pus to find their cars, 
taxi cabs, and mini 
vans being unloaded 
by OCs, RAs, and 
members of the Greek 
community. Most of 
the new students spent 
the rest of the day ex­
ploring campus and 
getting settled into 
their dorm rooms.
As usual, about sev­
enty freshmen did not 
receive campus hous­
ing and are staying at 
the Holiday Inn.
This year, their resi­
dence at the nearby hotel seems 
to be permanent. With the clo­
sure of Tudor and Carol Apart­
ments over the summer, there is 
a significant shortage of campus 
housing.
The first big orientation event 
was Playfair on Tuesday night. It 
was held in Gesling Stadium and 
lasted about two hours. An MC 
guided everyone through various 
icebreakers like forming groups 
according to the month in which 
you were bom, dancing with ran­
dom people, and lots of running 
around the field.
was a freshman.
Singer Mark Eddie and illu­
sionist Craig Karges gave an 
evening performance to an en­
thralled audience.
The five colleges held their re­
spective assemblies and depart­
ment meetings on Thursday af­
ternoon to allow freshmen to meet 
their college heads and gain fa­
miliarity with the curriculum. 
The Clippership cruise set sail 
from Station Square at 9 pm for 
three hours of dancing on the 
Monongahela River.
Orientation counselors gath­
ered their groups on Friday for 
Face to Face, talks on various 
issues regarding diversity. Later
Orientation photos courtesy of Lynn Pauslc 
Freshmen dance their way down the river as the Clippership proves to be the best party in town 
once again.
Upperclassmen will recall the 
infamous cry, “I want a standing 
ovation!” which has been used 
year after year. The class of '98 
enjoyed a different version this 
year with people jumpingup, yell­
ing,“ I want a standing gyration!” 
at which everybody would have 
to do grinding movements.
On Wednesday, freshmen split 
into their respective orientation 
groups and participated in vari­
ous activities, including a sex talk, 
which was shortened to 45 min­
utes this year compared to the 
three hour sex talk held when I
in the day, there was Caribbean 
Night, offering dinner, Jamaican 
dancing and a spectacular flame 
eater.
Those involved in community 
service set off Saturday morning 
for a variety of charitable events 
and the rest engaged themselves 
in Dorm Wars, in an effort to find 
the victorious dormitory in a 
battle of goofy games — spin the 
dizzy bat, wheelbarrow relay, and 
the three-legged race, to name a 
few. Morewood and the Hill
ally won.
Sunday night’s talent show had 
an unusual number of guitar play­
ers. Card tricks, comedy routines 
and even a Scottish dance were 
some of the other performance 
offered to a large audience.
So how was Orientation? Did it 
help the freshmen get settled in 
for their first week of classes?
“No, not really,” said freshman 
Aileen Chen, an economics ma­
jor. "Everything was really 
whacked.”
Computer Sciencemajor, Chris 
Hanson, disagreed. “It was fun,” 
he said, “It was sort of geared 
towards more extroverted people, 
but I’d say the whole week was a 
blast and it really 
helped.”
“My RA meetings 
helped a lot. I have a 
really cool RA.," said 
Cindy Hwang, also a 
computer science 
major.
The most popular 
activity of Orienta­
tion was the Clip­
pership cruise which 
ECE major Matt 
White said was the 
highlight of the 
week.
What was the 
worst aspect of Ori­
entation?
Everybody seem­
ed to agree it was 
the food. The fresh­
men got packed 
lunch boxes every 
day but at dinner, 
they were left on 
their own, which 
meant Morewood 
Dining.
“Orientation was 
great,” said Sopho­
more OC Angeline Tang. "Train­
ing was really long, but it really 
paid off. It was great to be able to 
meet new people and help them 
adjust to college life.” 
JeffBricker, ajunior who served 
as an orientation counselor both 
this year and last, was extremely 
impressed with the program. 
“This was my second year being 
an orientation counselor,” he said, 
“and it was definitely the best 
staff and program I’ve ever dealt 
with. I thought last year’s was
dorms needed a tie breaker of good, but this year’s was amaz- 
leapfrog which the Hill eventu- ing.”
Parking shortage leaves hundreds of students stranded
By ELENA MUNOZ
Tartan Junior Staff Writer 
and ERIC SALZMAN
Tartan Features Editor
gl Among other inconveniences, the 
demolition of Skibo has made an already 
poor parking system at Carnegie Mellon 
even worse, 
tri The massive destruction essentially 
left 95 students who would have nor­
mally parked in the Skibo lot without a 
)lace to leave their cars for the 94-95 
?chool year.
Since students do not find out if they 
buy a permit until they arrive at 
ihool, some end up driving from their 
hometowns to Pittsburgh only to dis- 
I cover that they have nowhere to leave 
their cars.
J Jung Park, a sophomore biology ma­
jor, is currently parking on Margaret 
Morrison Street. “Sometimes it’s a real 
j bitch,” he said “because Margaret 
Morrison’s real full. If I don’t get a spot, 
I’m pretty much screwed. Where else am 
I going to park—in someone else’s spot 
to get ticketed or booted?” 
r Without a permit, students are left 
with few options: 1) they can pay a $4 
a day parking fee and park in the ga- 
lge, 2) attempt to find a spot in the 
treet — often resulting in a car parked 
miles away from campus, or 3) send
their car back home. Many students opt 
to park miles away from school, 
jeapordizing the safety of their car.
As of August 29 there were still ap­
proximately 240 students on the park­
ing system waiting list, and chances for 
this number to decrease anytime soon 
do not appear promising. Workers in the 
parking office claim that they are trying 
to get everyone who wants a spot in by 
September 14, but even that date is not 
a guarantee. Also, students are still not
"If I don’t get a 
spot, I’m pretty 
much screwed. ”
— Jung Park
likely to get the parking lot they want. 
With prices of different lots varying by 
hundreds of dollars, students assigned 
to the more expensive lots may find 
themselves without a space if they can­
not afford the one they received.
Chemical engineering junior Matt 
Brown said that a spot costing $900 does 
nothing to help him. “If it’s something 
like that. I’ll just decline it,” he said.
Alan Chien, a senior Industrial 
Managment major, is also hoping to get
a spot in one of the cheaper lots. “I really 
don’t know what I’m going to do,” he 
said, if he ends up with a very expensive 
spot.
Chien also said that “even...[his] 
friends who live off campus can’t get a 
spot. We have to find someone to drive 
them to school each day.”
According to parking garage officials, 
spaces become available when someone 
cancels his permit, which does not often
happen.
Priority is given to faculty and staff, 
followed by graduate students, then com­
muters and finally to resident students.
Many students agree with this se­
quence, however they argue that the 
students should receive spaces based on 
their seniority rather than the first come 
first serve basis.
“I am extremely frustrated with the 
parking situation this year. I turned in
my application for a permit in early 
May, but due to a mix-up with the park­
ing office, I’m now on the waiting list of 
230 plus people. The permit distribution 
system is inflexible and inefficient,” said 
Tara Zane, ajunior professional writing 
major.
It is an unfortunate situation, but one 
parking garage official did offer a sug­
gestion, “If you don’t need a car, don’t 
bring it.”
Jim Snyder / Tartan Photo Editor 
Full parking lots leave many students wondering if they will get a spot at all.

---------------------------------------------------

L2The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 6 September 1994
Don’t feel trapped by CMU meal plan
Old Man Donner
By Jason Roth
Has the resemblance be­
tween Highlander and Tavern 
on the Green already begun to 
fade? Can you no longer tell 
the difference between Cheese 
and Vegetable Strata, Cheese 
and Mushroom Strata, and 
“Roast Beef’? Couldn’t locate 
the Kiltie Court even if you 
wanted to? Have you any idea 
when was the last time you 
went a day without pizza?
Well, gather round, young 
whippersnappers, and let Old 
Man Donner teach you how to 
survive CMU without selling 
your soul (and tastebuds) to 
Domino’s.
A man learns a lot in four 
years living in the biggest lava­
tory on campus, and it ain’t 
just Soap on a Rope. It is pos­
sible to survive in a dorm with­
out a meal plan — cheaper, 
healthier, and, yes, happier. 
First off, the basics — won’t 
even need a hot pot for this 
one, folks.
Microwaved Baked 
Potato
Sounds yummy, don’t it? 
Well, have some faith. Take a 
simple potato and a simple fork, 
and combine the two — thor­
oughly. Many will tell you to 
poke only a few holes, but the 
more holes, the better and 
faster it cooks.
So, when your potato has 
become thoroughly pierced, 
chuck it in the ‘wave (dorm 
‘wave, your‘wave, the kid down 
thehall’s‘wave...unlessyou*ve 
a lot of faith, a bowl might be 
advisable during the micro­
wave process).
Five (5) minutes on high 
should do, four for a pretty small 
potato.
Then add butter (I suppose 
margarine might work), sour 
cream, fresh pepper, and mush 
it all together (yes, skin and 
all). Delicious.
For variations, try cheese 
(Parmesan works great), 
chopped ham, parsley or what­
ever other spices you have ly­
ing around (IbetRedHot would 
be great). Experiment. Have 
fun. It’s only a potato (they’re 
maybe a dime apiece).
This is just the start, of course. 
Now that you’ve got yourself a 
hot potato, there’s lots of things 
you can do with it, some of which 
we’ll get into next week (and 
some of which are, frankly, none 
of the business of this column). 
For those of you. who have ac­
cess to more than a mere micro­
wave, let’s get into something a 
little more complex.
Real Homemade 
Spaghetti Sauce
That’s right, there’s a lot bet­
ter to put on that ubiquitous 
pasta than Ragu. Once you 
make your own, there’s no go­
ing back. You’ll need:
A decent sized pot (quart and 1/2 
minimum)
28 oz can of crushed tomatoes
1/2 a medium onion, coarsely chopped 
(1/4" sq.)
2 cloves of garlic, crushed or finely 
sliced or chopped
olive oil, oregano, basil, pepper, and 
sugar
Use just a bit of olive oil — a 
thin layer on the bottom of the 
pan. Heat it up (med-hi), then 
add onions, oregano,basil, pep­
per, and any other Italian spices 
on hand (thyme, rosemary, 
maTjoram); when the onions are 
nearly clear (not brown), add 
the garlic.
Once this begins to cook, add 
the tomatoes and more spices 
(now comes the bay leaf, if avail­
able).
Also, throw in Parmesan or 
Romano, if you have it.
Cover, and simmer on low for 
a while (10-30 min.), stirring 
occasionally. Fix spices to taste 
(basil and rosemary are sweet, 
oregano and thyme are tart; 
pepper is vital); the sugar men- 
please see FOOD, page L3
GRE, LSAT, GMAT
test takers wanted to participate in 
Exam Preparation Study
fseb sb fmi­ n,h
For détails call Lisa at 421-9759 
or e-mail Ih34@andrew.cmu.edu
¦ftp feac
rps
iiiipiis
September 13,1994)
y--------------------------------------------------------------------V
IIlio Table: Student Center 
Lobby (10 AM to 2 PM)
Info Session: Student Center 
Rpom 206 (7 PM to 9 PM)
Freshman, senior, and graduate student discuss different approaches to semester
By ERIC SALZMAN
Tartan Features Editor
The freshmen are coming to 
college with a fresh attitude look­
ing forward to all the new experi­
ences. The seniors are returning 
for just one more year until they 
can finally get out of here. The 
grad students, well, theyjustkind 
of do their own thing. Right?
Or, perhaps, could there be 
some sort of cohesion through­
out the Carnegie Mellon commu­
nity?
Maybe these three types of stu­
dents aren’t too different, or 
maybe their attitudes and ap­
proaches to CMU vary drasti­
cally.
In order to find out, three stu­
dents: a freshman, a senior, and 
a grad student sat down to dis­
cuss some of the most basic is­
sues of importance at Carnegie
Mellon. Aside from varying in as the graduate student repre- 
theiryearof eductation, the three sentative. 
participants also have different
fields of study. General approach to the
Carrie Walsh, the discussion’s semester
freshman participant, is a music 
major.
The senior, Dave Irvin, is a 
math/computer science major.
Finally, the history depart­
ment’s Michael Neiberg served
Mark Eggert / Tartan Art Co-Editor 
Carrie showed what is prob­
ably the typical freshman atti­
tude, expecting to “work hard... 
meet new people, and make a lot 
of new friends.”
Mike refuted the suggestion
that as a grad student he was 
only interested getting his de-k 
gree and getting out. “A social life 
is also important,” he said.
As a senior, Dave said that even 
though he plans “to have a little 
more fun this year,” he’s never 
had an easy semester here. “I 
expect to work my butt off again," 
he said.
Night life at CMU
Dave said that he doesn’t see' 
“any social life on Carnegie 
Mellon’s campus except for the 
Greek system. Sure there are bars 
down in Oakland, but that’s kind 
of far and Oakland’s not such a 
great place to hang out,” he said,' 
Not unexpectedly, Mike said 
thathis social life did notfocus on 
the Greek system. “I think for 
graduate students things are a 
Please see TRIO, page L3
Summer provides columnist with new perspectives
Horror Stories
By Tom Harper
Well, it’s time once again to 
actually wake up in the morning, 
attend classes, buy a ton of over­
priced textbooks, cram for exams, 
spend hours upon hours on home­
work, endure the weirdest cli­
mate eastoftheMississippi River, 
put up with enough stress that 
could kill the average mortal, and 
so on, and on, and on.
The almost sickening part was 
that during the summer I was 
actually looking forward to all of 
it. Hard to imagine, especially 
now.
One day in the middle of June I 
said to myself, “I should be writ­
ing all of this down.” I did. With a
vengeance, I might add. My first 
target was those incredibly irri­
tating Coca-Cola commercials. 
Thank the good Lord for the 
“MUTE” button. It was really 
useful for the one that kept re­
peating the months over and over 
and over again.
Even when I went to the mov­
ies, I saw more of those damn 
commercials! I’m thinking about 
boycotting theaters altogether.
What had to be the most disen­
chanting aspect of my summer 
was that I was supposed to go to 
Fort Lee, Virginia and complete 
some Army training and get all 
that college money everyone’s 
been hearing about on the radio. 
Apparently no one knew how to 
clear a medical excuse, and any­
one who did wouldn't tell me. I 
ended up waiting over nine hours 
in the Federal Building down­
town because of this. So, the next 
step was to go crawling into the 
Financial Aid office on my hands 
and knees begging for more
money. (Note: groveling only 
works part of the time.)
The drive home after the meet­
ings was pure hell. If you, the 
reader, are not familiar with 
Pittsburgh traffic, you don't want 
to be. I was stuck in a jam for two 
hours behind this garbage scow 
on wheels. That thing spewed 
forth enough pollution to choke 
the whole campus. Soon after that 
I was stuck behind an automo­
bile carrier with only one auto­
mobile on it, and it looked like it 
was ready to fall off and destroy 
something. It was a Dodge Neon, 
so it might only dent the family 
Buick if it plummeted on top of 
me.
I’d also like to know who de­
signed semis that have the 
lugnuts extending outward from 
the hubcaps. Every time I pass 
one and see them spinning around 
at high rates of speed, it reminds 
me of the chariot racing scene in 
Ben Hur.
One night I came home just in
time to see hundreds of LAPD 
police cars chasing a white 
Bronco. This led to “Every Day is 
O.J. Media Circus Day” on the' 
news. My biggest problem with it 
is that Marcia Clark won’t return 
my phone calls.
Later that summer, more intel­
ligence-insulting commercials ei­
ther littered the airwaves by just 
being there. An example of this is 
that damn Prologue commercial 
and that guy that looks so damn 
smug because he can use a data­
base and get paid about $30,000 
a year for doing so. A true legend" 
in his own mind, I’m sure.
I also noticed that all the back- 
to-school hype started in the 
middle of July. First Christmas 
comes in October and now this. 
It’s like Thanksgiving doesn’t' 
even exist anymore. When will 
this stop? When St. Patrick’s Day 
ends up in January? May Day in 
March? Fourth of July in April?
In my final ranting about com- 
Please see COMMERCIALS, page L3.
G©PüKáI InIS
GOIFIKÂummíIPIKÄRUSm©eP5RÂIRU8¡H1
ÿ/ord Processor BROTHER AX 325
Canon
brother. 
ELECTRONIC TYPEWRITERAuto ‘Word Out’ correction. Auto paper insertion, lift-off correction memory, auto underlining, bold printing, right margin flush.Express/half backspace, variable 10/12 pitch type selector.,on —A*l0$3 PeUt 3zznzG
CANON STARWRITER 30 THERMAL TRANSFER WORD PROCESSORQuiet, non-impact printing. Over 500 built-in print variations. DOS conversion program. 40 characters 
per second print speed. 50,000 word spell check. AC/DC powered.No. 592-535 List 499.95
99
29999
HEWLETT-PACKARD 12C FINANCIAL CALCULATOR
The time-tested performer. Full math, 
financial and statistical functions 
including mortgages, balloon payments, 
depreciation and bond yields. Keystroke 
programming eliminates vast number of 
keystrokes. RPN.
No. 375-196 
List 94.95
HEWLETT-PACKARD 48G SCIENTIFIC GRAPHIC CALCULATOR
Advanced matrix/calculus 
functions. 32K built-in memory. 
8-line by 22-character display. 
3-D plotting. 1-line equation 
library with science/engineering 
equations.
No. 548-149 
List 165.00
69" 119)99
Bethel Park
4000 Oxford Dr. At Route 19) 412)831-5177
Monroeville
4049 William Penn Hwy. (Jonnet Plaza)) 856-5260
dgewood
1763 S. Braddock Ave. Edgewood Towne Center) 412)244-8004
(Jonne 412) i North I
West Mifflin
2325 Mountain View Dr. 
(Century Square)
(412) 653-6680Hills7377 McKnight Rd.
Ross Towne Center)412) 369-9902
OPEN DAILY: 8:D0am-9:00pm SAT.: 9:00am-9:00pm SUN.:11:00am-6:00pm 
WE ACCEPT: Discover, Visa, Mastercard, American Express &
‘ardOffice Depot Credit Card & The Technology Cart
Our Low Price Guarantee!
If you see an identical item 
advertised at a lower price, show us 
the current advertisement, and 
you'll get the lower price, plus 50% 
of the difference as a credit toward 
your purchase when you buy it from 
us (maximum S50 credit). Ad 
errors, closeouts and clearances do 
no, quality.
President, Office Depot

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 6 September 1994L3
Trio’s discussion finds differences in students’ approaches
TRIO, from page L2
little less wild. Things tend to 
center on smaller groups ... I 
think we’re more inclined to go 
out further away from campus.” 
i With little access to getting off 
campus, Carrie has found her 
social life focusing around the 
fraternity parties on campus. 
''•‘That’s all I’ve experienced here 
so far.”
Carrie also said that she’s in­
terested in exploring more of 
Pittsburgh, particularly the clubs 
and coffee shops in the area.
Mike, who was born and raised 
in Pittsburgh, said that there are 
some “very nice bars on the North 
side of town” as well as places in 
Squirrel hill and South side that 
he likes to frequent.
Dave, who is also from the Pitts­
burgh area, went on to reminisce 
with Mike about the high schools 
they went.
After the stroll down memory 
lane he explained that he tends 
inot to venture off campus too 
much since most of his friends 
are here.
Pittsburgh
Carrie, who spends lots of time 
in New York, seemed impressed 
with the cleanliness of the city as 
well as by the friendly dialect of 
Pittsburghese.
Perhaps she was just taken 
abackby the view from Mt. Wash­
ington on her first night, which, 
as Dave pointed out, is “the first 
thing everybody does.”
“There’s aren’t many things you 
can’t do here. If you’re interested 
in Broadway shows, they’re here. 
Most of the time we have major 
league baseball here,” Mike said.
Food
One position that all three stu­
dents shared was that campus 
food is to be avoided. Carrie often 
goes out to eat or orders in even 
though she has a meal plan, a 
diet that can quickly become un­
bearably expensive.
“I learned to cook when I got 
into Carrie’s position and I saw 
what the dorm food looked like,”
Mike said.
Dave, on the other hand, eats 
in his fraternity house during the 
week but has mastered the art of 
Ramen noodles for the weekends.
Housing
In this area, grad students ap­
pears to have the better set up. “I 
have a two bedroom apartment 
that I share in Squirrel Hill with 
my girlfrind,” Mike said as he 
assured everyone that they have 
separate bedrooms (wink).
Dave said that “the fraternity 
house is kind of tiny and out­
dated ... but it’s nice living in the 
house because you know every­
body in the house and you’re 
friends with them. When I was a 
freshman, there were always 
people on the floor th at you didn’t 
want to hang out with. The gar­
bage truck would come at 4:45 in 
the morning. The big thing was 
right under my window.”
‘The Kiltie band plays right in 
front of our window all the time,” 
said Carrie who seems to be go­
ing through a lot of the same 
things Dave did a few years ear­
lier.
Welcome
With a week-long orientation, 
Carrie said she felt extremely 
welcome at CMU. “It was really 
neat that they had programs for 
you to go to and meet people,” she 
said. “It’s a very friendly school.”
Mike said that the feeling of 
welcome as a graduate student 
has much more to do with the 
department than the University 
as a whole.
“You’re very much tied to the 
department you’re working in. 
Those are the people you see on a 
day to day basis."
Now as a senior, Dave said 
that he feels the University is 
abondoning him a bit especially 
in the area of financial aid.
“Every year they progressively 
cut my financial aid. It’s sort of 
like ‘we’ll give you a lot of money 
when you’re a freshman, but now 
it’s all of a sudden, O.K, we’ll
take a little more off the top.’ I’m 
basically up to my nose with debts. 
I’ll be paying those off until I’m 
28.”
The big hole in the middle 
of campus
“It’s mainly a pain in the ass,” 
Carrie said, “especially as fresh­
man, you don’t know where any­
thing is.”
Mike actually expressed the 
most concern for the loss of the 
student center which he said he 
used a lot. “I went to a lot of 
Scotch ‘N Soda shows and played 
a lot of pool on that awful pool 
table.”
“I never used Skibo,” said Dave, 
who didn’t care the slightest bit 
about the loss of the building.
Dating at CMU
As frightening as the thought 
is, some of Mike’s friends are al­
ready getting married. “A lot of 
grad students are in their late 
twenties or early thirties,” Mike
said, “and it’s very different from 
when you’re 18 or 19.”
According to Dave, “Carnegie 
Mellon’s probably not a very good 
school if you actually want to 
date. Don’t take that the wrong 
way. It’s really hard to meet 
people, especially in my major 
because most of my classes have 
no women in them at all.”
Carrie agreed with Dave’s as­
sumption that dating is a lot 
easier for women since the ratio 
so heavily favors them. “I just 
want to have fun,” she said. “
Stress at CMU
“Let’s talk about my receeding 
hairline, “ Dave said.
Mike agreed th at there’s a lot of 
stress but attributed the condi­
tion more to the nature of grad 
school rather than to CMU.
Dave said that his “stress is 
definitely due to CMU,” and that 
it doesn’t get any better as the 
years go on. “I haven’t really met 
any stress here yet, but I’m sure 
I will,” Carrie said.
Commercials add to columnist’s angst
COMMERCIALS, from page L2 
mercials I’d like to point out a feature 
indigenous to this area. Furniture stores 
are ALWAYS going out of business. It’s 
funny how nobody ever hears of these 
furniture stores until they have a going- 
out-of-business-for-freakin’-ever sale. 
Maybe if they actually advertised before 
they’re headed for Chapter Thirteen they 
wouldn’t be going out of business, but 
that’s only my opinion.
Even the news has gone completely. 
One station in the area has gone to a 
“Family Sensitive” news broadcast. This 
is so families all around the area can sit 
down as a family and hear about the 
violence, crime, sex, and four-alarm fires 
without scenes that some people would 
find “offensive.”
When I was little we had a way of 
watching the news as a family. Every 
time me or my brother made a noise my 
dad would shout “Listen!!!”
This station also has a “caller feed- 
lack” feature where you, the viewer, can
call in and get your opinion played while 
the credits roll.
A lot of people have been calling in 
over the summer saying they want more 
“hardcore news.” What the hell is that? 
“Police raided the local strip club last 
night—nine people were disgustingly 
killed.”
Has this ever happened to anybody? 
Three times this summer I picked up a 
black pen and started writing with it. 
The ink came out BLUE. What chemical 
wears off or what elf climbs into the pen 
and actually change it’s color?
At one of my Reserve meetings I 
showed up early and parked next to this 
stretch of road that could be declared a 
disaster area. A comet fragment must 
have missed Jupiter and plowed right 
into the road. The funny part was watch­
ing every single car hit it at almost full 
speed—’’WHUMP—WHUMP”—and 
they didn’t seem to care one bit.
But one thing I DO want to know is 
why Pennsylvania has the mostf©&$ed
up roads in the entire country. Every­
where else the highways are smooth as 
silk. You can tell when you’ve crossed 
the Ohio-Pennsylvania border just by 
the sound of the tires— "Whrrrrr... pa- 
tump .. .pa-tump ... pa-WHUMUMP."
Finally, I have to say something on the 
Major League Baseball strike. “I NO 
LONGER CARE.” The NHL pi ayers may 
go on strike now—what’s next? The golf­
ers? What would the TV golf announcers 
do for a living? What job would need 
their skills of saying things real slow in 
a deep voice and feign enthusiasm? I can 
only think of three things: high school 
principal, Senator, and William Shatner 
stand in.
And now, summer is almost officially 
over, but I’m sure the stupidity will 
continue.
Tom Harper, Sophomore Physics/CS 
major, is presently in the straitjacket he 
knitted himself. Let him out at your own 
risk!
Survival tips for dormers
SURVIVAL, from page L2
tioned is not always necessary, but if 
the sauce is sour, then add some, and 
don’t be shy — it dissolves right in.
That’s the basic recipe, but here’s 
the bells and whistles: Green or other 
peppers — saute them with the on­
ions, but remove before the tomatoes 
are added, or they sour severely; throw 
them back in at the end; Red cooking 
wine, or even red wine vinegar, dashed 
in at the end of cooking (allow aminute 
or two for diffusion).
Meat — not too hip these days, but I 
doubt you’d find anyone in Little Italy 
eschewing a good sausage; take ground 
beef (I’d recommend veal, but calves 
really are abused), cased sausage or 
loose, and first brown it, drain the fat, 
and add the oil, onions, etc.
The nice thing about this sauce is 
that how long it simmers is pretty 
optional. I usually set the water to boil
during the onion stage (a little later if 
I’ve time), and when the pasta’s done, 
so is the sauce.
Learn what you like, and experi­
ment widely — again, this is much 
better and cheaper than store-bought
— the whole pot, which makes 2-4 
servings, costs less than two bucks.
So that’s all until next week; in the 
meantime, go easy on the Ramen, 
simply avoid Domino’s, and, if you 
musteatMac‘n’ Cheese—buy Annie’s 
Alfredo (Shadyside Market carries 
it): a little more expensive, a lot 
tastier, and infinitely cooler than that 
orange stuff.
Jason Roth is a fifth year architect 
student who lived in Donner Hall for 
four years: on purpose. He can do 
more things with a potato than 
Letterman can do with a pencil. If you 
ask him nicely, he’ll even show you.
The TI-85 builds on the 
functionality of the TI-68 
and adds a wide range of 
graphing capabilities. So 
math students can handle 
calculus problems more 
easily. And technical stu­
dents can see the functions 
for a better understanding 
of problems. The TI-85 also 
handles complex numbers, 
matrices, vectors, lists 
and strings. Plus it offers 
a powerful one-equation 
SOLVER.
The TI-68 solves up to five simultane­
ous equations. Has complex number- 
functions. Offers formula program­
ming. Even has a last equation replay 
feature. All at a great price.
S Y S T I- ¡VI S () P P () li T {' N 1 T I lr. S
Get Serious.
Engineering, math or science major? Serious stuff. Get a 
TI-68 Advanced Scientific or TI-85 Graphing Calculator from Texas 
Instruments. They’re designed for students and professionals and 
recommended by professors.
Get the serious functionality you demand at a price you can afford. 
Try a TI-68 or TI-85 at your local TI retailer today, or for more informa­
tion, call 1-800-TI-CARES.
EXTENDING YOUR EEAC H~
*THEARNBRUDGSHBUR
Looking for a Challenge?
Then The Prudential’s Advanced Management Development Program is 
for you! AMDP is an accelerated program which develops top managers 
by combining rotational job experiences with ongoing education.
Individuals with a strong information systems background, who also 
possess excellent analytical and communications skills, are encouraged 
to attend our Information Session. An equal opportunity employer.
Tuesday, September 13 at 7:00 PM 
Student Center, Room 208
ThePrudential
e-mail: ii-cures @ iobby.ti.comIn Canada, call 1-800-661-2007. 01994TI. IH000182

---------------------------------------------------

This year, you're giving Student Government 
over $500,000 of your money 
Here's what we do with it.
Spring Carnival and 
Sweepstakes ($81,405)
Other Organizations 
($66,911)
Sports and Recreation 
($23,001)
Rowing Club ($21,916)
Student Government 
($11,935)
PSFB ($30,975)
Activities Board ($147,080)
WRCT ($46,703)The Thistle ($25,200)The Tartan ($21,000)
Where Your Money Goes
You pay an Activities Fee of $100 a year. Student Government is 
responsible for allocating over $500,000 of that money, and almost all 
of it goes to the student groups shown above. We use the leftover 
money — about $75,000 — for special grants to organizations and to 
cover any budget deficits.
Another Note
The Spring Carnival and Sweepstakes figures are last year's budgets. 
Also, these numbers represent the money given to each organization by 
Student Government. Many organizations like The Tartan raise much 
of their money by themselves. For details about individual 
organizations' budgets, look in /afs/andrew/org/treasurer/Public.
But we do more than that.
I've been working on these projects over the summer. Here are some 
brief updates.
Scotland Yard
Scotland Yard will open in the Morewood Rec Room in early 
October. Originally, the administration had planned to close our 
nonalcoholic pub until the University Center was built, but with the 
help of the Office of Planning and Budget I was able to find a space for 
Scotland Yard and persuade Business Services to keep it open.
The Yard will have a cappuccino and expresso bar and will serve 
traditional bakery favorites like carrot cake and chocolate death cake
— the rest of the menu hasn't been determined yet. The initial 
operating hours will be from 5 pm to 12:30 am.
President Mehrabian's Office Hours
President Robert Mehrabian has agreed to hold open office hours for 
students on the following Tuesday afternoons:
September 20, 5 pm - 6 pm 
October 4,5 pm - 6 pm 
October 18,5 pm - 6 pm 
If you want to talk with him about how you feel about CMU or if 
you want to share any comments or concerns, you should stop by. I'll 
announce the next set of office hours next month.
Squirrel Hill Shuttle
Over the summer, I worked with Campus Security investigating 
ways to provide shuttle service to Squirrel Hill, and now you can take 
University of Pittsburgh shuttles to Squirrel Hill and Shadyside in the 
evenings and weekends.
The Squirrel Hill shuttle stops at the PAT bus stop on the Cut by 
Forbes Avenue, and you can wave down the Shadyside shuttle at 
Morewood Avenue and Fifth Avenue. You can use the University of 
Pittsburgh shuttles from 7 pm to 12 am on weekdays and from 10 am 
(11 am on Sundays) to 11:30 pm on weekends. You can get schedules 
from Campus Security in the Student Center.
If you have anything you'd like to talk about, just give me a call at 
268-6047 or send email to declan-t-@cmu.edu. And if you want to be 
involved in student government, show up at the first Student Senate 
meeting on September 6 at 7 pm in the Student Center, room 207.
Have a great year!
Declan McCullagh
Student Body President Paid for by your Activities Fee.

---------------------------------------------------

ft*) ARE Ylt Q3IHG TO \HVEHT ? WE DOHT KHCW
ITS EASt. TWffi ARE fFil 
yMo9. S\V\?Lt MACVWHES TOHEi. 0^0. I'M ^ IWENTWS s BUDUGE TsS ,pTageG Se
WEIL. UERE IT IS SO FAR. HOBBES AHD I HAVE BEEU WORWHG OH ft AU. AFTERNOON ITS HOT QUVTE PERFECTED lET, BUT XCW GET TMEI0EA.
UMM-WUAT ^ TVIATS TME DC£5lTD0?/R&Bl£M. WE HAVEN’T FIGURED OUT WOW TO MAKE IT DO WHAT WE WAHT.
DOW GET DlSQOORAGED. lOUR. m\ AND I Q3T THE. SAMEResults after. working oh m for. six Feat
m, HOB8ES, WE MIGHT AS 
WELL GIVE OP. L CAHT 
nreFch mfl sag lm tdkh 
N R080T. THIS 
CHE DCkSNT )r 
Do dvilsrse. 'Tlr
ITS PAST SOUR BEDTIME. CALVIN. 10U'LI HAVE TO LEAVE W TOIS FOR. TOMORtoW.
Fill in these squares with witty dialogue 
and some stick figures and become a 
comic artist for the Tartan Newspaper.
While you’re at it, give Ramsey Hong, the Art Co-Editor, 
a call at X8-2111. You might want to talk to him. He's 
the loser in charge of comics.
amende
^Well, it looks like 
every+^3 is^ll se^ for an e^c.itmq eUavr
2
7^ ve ^of pUnS Por
y£c\r, no wore "Sarne, old 
Stuf'f. V/e'rp, talkim^ b>c\ 
cl isc.uss’ions on co strove rsi a. 
-fopic-Sj political, socfire.j e\je^
^ l) wm cit oF
cl<xSSicdr<vrY\G,.--
by rtatt Qoldberg
7 Top if a|| off Wifk <x fabulous
trip -to France, wke re we. '¡\ 
eKpiore. al! tXe, ! An.ornarks 
ob csa .sBsncuqnaL as"o.rt4eowe
V.\^enAell/ 'Trouble./ Wetvly was 
tJcvl kir\0 m t^.e rec. foom wki ort 
RarxcW. ’jdorkilrtq Of\Sow\t.
ne.w in'/cvrHor) / >
Tkcrv^aain^ This year Z may 
’rUt Utoasn yCcUdp i .otn 4
'tou never 9I7s 'fe!(.

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN-CROSSjAcKscP-TAn
/"un ... OKAY.
5AY; P° You 
SMELL SHoKf
^ HcY! ’STHI
To THE CUECAP-DS
UoW'lWE'Pf IH TH£ SnmSsA 
^ ¦ N , FUNM/ PAGfS»WELL, ARfN^r Voo 
&OINJG To HAKE. A <. joke?______/
By JEFFE BOATS
^ ßüT I THOUGHT- 
7 Yov u/£fc£ FU(j^ftiENps. .
i fotzoor //r WAS ' ;
H ERF------------
LBRIGHLT PO HoH£l X stjEAP, YouR tioM y 
»*¦
)/I'M SoRRY. BUT 
I You KNdw Trtfli 
CUTE-I-'TTU: -R£D-
\HAIRFP-Gif!l- 3U.clCL¿AL^VS , .-H--->
lY^PPMfr vj ^ßjuT ? I
¡HE'S Too Good 
To HANÙ AROUND 
WITH A. HE'5 
\ COPyRlSHTEP. ^
''RUN INSIPf : 
ANl^ CALI- 7HÍ T 
>\C°Pi! I ‘u\l 
IniTRV To Vr —f^TAL-L. H/M.I 
/WITH THE /r
. GARDEN H0Sf. ,<
't/M -OH- He’S GETt/mO MIS BASEBALL HATjJ/ X WAS b»S/N6
! You To 6£’T// 
¦ Tc HER'
/THAT? NO s.JYEDW AHCas
pofSN'r t. ÍHAVE
VFPigNps»s* riwjf, fto„£V
Duuetoalcekfksa bfm Di­n,ehkhUvt
N/AKHWA.¦VPOSSDOt#)
Tr.S CC1MP5E CF WCIEhT WITT -7KUTllK . KFATEV
Riffles ''f uMvJ A-x^ y.Wuut.fi M yKMMM -a. 
Tr*£ FLCW OF K£FV>,t[-\/k..M'W ¦ F vT^mtA.*
AND CHINESE /flP£RML EXMNJIOM ALL Fl'ELEP PE.\TRVi.TION 
CF TUB rcv/ER W •:?'?? OF MKA-h'MHVMA 
RECIOAJ. OUT CF THIS CHAOS, C'LD TKlpAi. SW£5, THAT 
WERE FORMER ALLIES, NOW VIED FOR THE CONTROL OF THE 
RE6IPW.
THREE .STAPLE KIUC.D0M EMFRCED AFTER OVEP. THREE: 
CENTURIES OF CONSTANT WARFARE, BÈCWNIMÌ A NEW ERA 
VJHICH 15 LATER WOWW AS THE ERA OF THE THREE KlN$- 
DONS. WAR AMD STALEMATE BETWEEN THE TMEÉ HWi- 
DON S -K0ÙVRYO TO WORTH, PAEKKE TO A'fcsT, AWD ÌILLA 
TO EAST, — LASTEP FOR ANOTHER THREE CENTURIES.
1. Neuter
5. Centipede feature 
^• Mineral spring
12. Bass horn
13. Harbinger
14. Corn unit
15. Asunder
16. MBA subject
18. Greek letter
19. Singles
20. Glue
21. Aromatic chemical
23. Bombshell
24. Pet owner
27. Religious garb 
30. Jai ____
33. Anchorman Koppel
34. Prison
35. Wagon
36. Commie
37. Healing plant
38. For shame!
39. Cwm
41. Clean tile floor 
*12. Angel's foe 
46. Scour 
49. Units of area
51. Self
52. Astaire performance
54. Type of wood
55. Equip with weapon
56. Plenty-
57. Plant tubule
58. Okay
59. Couples
60. Simplicity
1. USA subdivision
2. Mountain lions
3. Circa
4. Gab
5. Brain hemisphere
6. Flightless birds
7. Karate uniforms
8. Sharpshooter
9. Observes
10. Gone by
11. Backside
17. Older Bobbsey girl 
19. Openings
22. Radiate
23. President Roosevelt
25. Binding
26. Adolescent
27. East Indian shrub
28. Life prefix
29. Strong beer
30. Portray
31. ___Vegas
32. Ornate chest
34. ____ Eyre
39. Blue
40. Hypothetic powers
41. Telnet destination
43. USA Soccer
goalkeeper Tony
44. Grues
45. Family circus
apparition
46. Canine command
47. Concern
48. Auto statistics
49. Surface prefix
50. Dining hall
53. Right away
54. Y
fVT THE TIME WAS AFOUT TO CHANCE
IT WAS 1TH CíHTVRY, SIL LA, tÓREA
FLOWERS- f 
FOR FRUITS
by Mark Kantrowitz
In a laddergram, the object 
is to transform the word 
on the top rung into the 
word on the bottom rung 
in the least number of 
steps. During each step 
you must replace one 
letter in the previous word 
so that a new word is 
formed, but without 
changing the positions of 
the other letters. For 
example, we can change 
LEAD into GOLD in just 
three steps: LEAD, LOAD, 
GOAD, GOLD.
r WANT n't FIV 8 ULKS KIOWl15 TMhT c rycl
THEARNCuC tbuo uHvee
My MBH THINK.S 
T -e_CIo s deIetMFOR srt&Vl AND tEU I BROUGHT 
MY NEliHfAR PREP. HE'S 
A ME«*£R of THÉ F 1K.ST 
UMSIBUcAL CHuRÍVi AMP 
HEVl TM.K ABOUT HlJ / 
UMllUCAL -CORP. y
Oo cMl -e_ j((T
STUPII? WITH THAT 
THIN&7 /
ubhs 'W rHduP Cre
UIeE xf i LMi.t'
"iktJYXV IT, VltVALP IT WAKt YOU /V PUK6 ? jL
MGeo) Youtf. oocToe.\ 
T(TSumf Sew er 'fuU* 
VVIEimT PK.06L EMîJ
MJ1ÍWT You USEE?
TO BE MY PAPER BtiY?
Copyright 0 1994 
by Hark Kantrowitz. 
All rights reserved
DoonesburyBY GARRY TRUDEAU
¿JOP THAT Blu. MU- 
57 ñOD¡ MNMSSß» AMTres iR e Rdentl
BROKEN BEAT! 
iHtDtAD-
Iauc
-r]/K£5 SüMM&niMB FAHTAwY 
HA.> TAKEN HIM TOTHZH/U.¦¿reset. -y&iMuu.GHmpPom 
ÍAVÚUAGEH5X5 ACcARJFlCA- 
rmTHERE.. A C0NCE&5I0NHERE.. 
ehdEykBnSg,dCNN
THIS YEAR'S, HOWEVER, IS NOT 
QUITE THE CONFECTION AS LAST' um.. UJEU.YOU // WHAT A SEEMEPA 
/ SEHSmVE LITTLE 
FE-PRAWIN6 STUCK, SIR.. 
OF BOSNIAS ^ / /_ MAP! Aîmfâià
HI. KIDS! RECOGNIZE THAT 
FARAWAY LOOK? YES, ITS 
TIME AGAIN FOR MIRS'S 
SUMMERTIME FANTASY!
'NOW,THEM',1 
UNPFRSTANP j 
HEALTHCARE : 
[/t5 ïTAUEP-j
¦ ^ 0UICI\ 
SOMEHOW [ROUNPUP 
)n ALlThi ^1 CRAFK-
IF ONLY- IF ONLY...HMM.. HOW TO ASSUAGE CRITICS 
OF THIS CRT ME- 
BILI WITHOUT y COMPROMIS¦ r ' ^
INGTHE >
FRAMERS' (INTENT' ¦
MIKE VREAMS OF SAVING THE 
UORiP! l&FS WISH HIM LUCK!
^IHENEXTPÂT\I IKE’S SUMMER FANTASY HAS 
HIM SAVING THEIMRLP.MIKE, THIS COMPREHENSIVE 
HEALTH CARE BIU, YOU HAMMERED OUT IS ASTONISH- 
IN6! NO WON PER IT RE­
CEIVED INSTANT BIPARTISAN SUPPORT IN BOTH 
HOUSES! /
Um.THANKS, SIR, BUT I WAS 
REAUYONLY ACTING AT 
YOUR. BEHEST...
UJHATS THIS ? I HOPE TTLLWHY, FT'S A PROVE USEFUL
WHITEPAPER TO YOU, SIR!
ON HAITI! WEIL, I'M
AND FT TOO, OFF! \
IS BRJLUANT!
tS geneDdASV 
fnN Cndgi)dwt• 
tS gvCdnAigd 
tRdEenNBnDfd 
tnie)g• m
YOU HAVE A 
REMARKABLE 
TALENT FOR
ITS NOT LIKE TP DESERVE 
TO RECEIVE THEMEPALOF 
FREEPOM, OUR NATIONS HIGHEST HONOR, MARJN6 ME THE YOUNGEST RE­
CIPIENT IN HISTORY.
LATERTHATDAY.ÍÁJHAT? WHERE ARB YOU 
GOING, 
MIKE?
CONGRATULATIONS, [ EXCELLENT! 1 
SIR! THEY AU- c-' WELL, OFF 
PLED GUILTY! TO RWANDA']
1'MNOrm THY, SIR. I'M 
TOO YOUNG
600DNEWS,MIKE' IHATV6REAI 
AIL PARTIES HAVE SIR! OH, I'VE 
AGREED TO YOUR PREPARED PROPOSED PARTI- SOMETHING TION OF BOSNIA! ELSEFORYOU.
CONGRAT­
ULATIONS,
MIKE.
CONGRATULATIONS] ON BECOMING OUR 
NATION'S Y0UN6EST- 
EVER RECIPIENTOF , 
THE FREEDOM [if MEDAL, MIKE iñ
HAVE TO60, GOTTT. SIR!
OLP FRIEND! THANKS FOR.REMEMBER- ROLLING BACK
ONE PERSON, CENTURIES
ONE VJTE, GOTIT? OF HATRED!
BUT MR. PRESI- SORRY, MIKE! PENT! TMBUSY WE'VE GOT 
CREATING A VIA- CRISES ENOUGH BLEMODELFOR RIGHT HERE AT
DEMOCRATIC RE- HOMB! SEE YOU FORM THROUGH- SOON!,
OUT THE MUCAN >CONTINENT >
1 IKE IS SUPERVISING FREE 'N' 1 FAIR ELECTIONS IN KIGALI.I DONT KNOW ICOULPNT HOW YOU MAN- HAVE DONE AGED TO SOLVE ¡TWITHOUT
ALL OUR NATION'S YOORHUS- 
PROBLEMSSO BANPSSUP- 
^QUICKLY! PORT,MRS.C!
MIRE! THIS 15 \ YOUR PRESIDENT!] 1NEEP YOU TO 
HELP ME WITH 
CONGRESS! I
BEYONP THAT, ALL TT REALLY TOOK WAS A LITTLE COMMON SENSE 
ANP IMAGINATION!
THANKS. HILE. MAY 
I CALL YOU i HILL*, r-s
\ ESPECIALLY IMA6INA-\noN.j—'
THANKSVERY
MUCH.
MRS.
CLINTON.
THATSRIGHT, SPECIAL ENVOY MA’AM-EVEN DOONESBURY! 
HUTU MAY VOTE! YOU HAVE
ACAU'MY-l

---------------------------------------------------

"And the note says: ‘Dear classmates and Ms. Kilgore: 
Now that my family has moved away, I feel bad that 
I whined so much about being mistreated. Hope 
the contents of this box will set things right.
Love, Pandora.'... How sweet.”
THE FAR SIDE By GARY LARSON
When the dust had settled, a lone figure was 
revealed standing on the small knoll. Yes, he, too, 
was a herd animal — but he was through runnin'.
In the longest hour of his life, Morty takes the dare 
of his sloth buddies and crosses the autobahn.
bf tMM #
ffff
9,2
The often romanticized image of cowboys and aliens"Got him, Byron! It’s something in the Vespula 
genus, all right — and ooooweeeee 
does he look mad!”
Reality
'VeF-ry" -nx>'f£P-
Ô fas n 3d t
[ fcUy ¿¿yaA-f V
i tRTHTb :8D" ‘IX ft PHAlctj
thb/ shomuo "art "nA siNew 
Cap A*’ B>e Y'M^
1W>Cv's A 
e-M^CH OF 
CntSeee g>PÆ>efrAo.
6Ft fA|P 
IWAÉ -fH'W K 
%
1HC TARTAN, C-i
Fmo4w Duetoalc kfsbD mfi­­ Ot(TitCH
24mn &T5)ltsSe5’4 5L*sn, :t
ju^r *7 t4*ets
&° up— -pv^e$ ’JUNH. speurr °M
giMlov cC)h4 isf /*J bumpyyt
10FP SBis ETJic-^-reï> acm wvr A
op? ( ^usr p««0 TfwOfZy 
1eescM&(L-5 <5n<Mi~ï> **A|c£ 
ft-i, I X».
MUt-hf

---------------------------------------------------

HOW TO BUY A $ 1,000 
BEDROOM SET FOR $250
INTRODUCING...
USED HOTEL 
FURNITURE
Save 50-90% every day on 
quality used furniture from 
America’s Finest Hotels.
Used Hotel Furniture 
200 N. Braddock Ave. 
731-9856
Hotel means it’s Good. 
Used means it's a Good Price.
U
$10
HAIRCUT
(Save $2)' -GEMINI
Walk-Ins Welcome 406 S. Craig St.
(Only 2 Blocks from the Cathedral of Learning)
621-4247
CD
TRADER
VISIT A NEW KIND OF MUSIC STORE...
Alternative, blues, jazz, imports, pop/rock, reggae, ska, 
techno, world plus 50 other categories...
10,000 new and used CD’s,
hear any CD before you buy it,
low prices, buy or trade program, 
cheap large posters,
and the best deals in the area.
201 South Craig Street 
Oakland 
687-6626
Monday Saturday
n<?aA 11 am to 5pm10am to 6pm
BaJH
FORCES AND ENERGYal Force t
ic Collisions
RAD POLAR CHARSMODESMEMORYSTACK PREV MENU
MTH PRGCSTVARÀMr:l
G H1JKL
UP HOME 0EF RCL + NUM UNDOPICTUREVIEWSWAP
p M)leEVAL' <' TM H0pQR
ASIN a ACOS SATAN210* LOG<?*LN
M)Lr be)TAN’ ixV'Vx
S TUVWX
EQUATION MATRIXEDIT CMDPURG ARGCLEARDROP
ENTER+/-EEX,MJog' «¦
YZ1
USER ENTRY SOLVEPLOT SYMBOLIC () #
A genius figured it out— 
HP built it in.
11 days only!
August 31- September 10
• The HP 48G has built-in 
equations, functions, 
and menus to guide you 
through complex 
calculations.
• Access over 300 built-in equations.
• Push a button, choose from a pull­
down menu, and fill in the blanks. 
Entering data is that easy.
• View 3-D graphs.
• Perform algebra and calculus 
operations on equations before 
entering values.
• Enter and see equations like they 
appear on paper.
• Work with different units of measure. 
The HP 48G will convert them for you. 
So, enter inches, centimeters, yards, and 
feet, together in one equation — it’ll 
convert them.
• You’ll quickly learn to 
operate it!
Pull-down menus guide you through 
problem-solving smoothly and quickly. 
Push a button, select an entry from the 
pull-down menu, and fill in the blanks.
• Check it out at your 
college bookstore.
The HP 48G graphic calculator gives 
you a whole lot more for a whole lot 
less than you think. Compare — the 
HP 48G fits your budget.
What HEWLETT® sBUDG PACKARD
As a student, or.member of the faculty 
or staff, you and your immediate family normal­
ly save 20% at Eyetique. But for 11 days only, 
save an additional 10% - that’s a total savings of 
30% on the area’s most incredible selection of 
unique designer eyewear!
* Save 30% on lenses only 
**Disposable contacts excluded. No other offers or 
discounts apply.
L.A. Eyeworks • Giorgio Armani 
Oakley • Revo 
Jean-Paul Gaultier*
Oliver Peoples* 
and many more!
Save 30% on contact lenses, too!**
Eyetique hours:
Monday thru Thursday 9:00 a.m. - 9:00 p.m. 
Friday & Saturday 9:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m.
Must present coupon 
for 30% discount
This coupon entitles bearer to 3Q% off any product or service at 
Squirrel HIP Eyeltqua. No other discounts or special offers may be ust 
Other restrictions may apply. Offer expires September
SQUIRREL HILL EYETIQUE2242 Murray Ave. » 422-5300
Pittsburgh's finest collection of unique fashton eyewea: 
Complete vision and hearing testing/hearing aids. -
Directions from C.M.U.
Follow Forbes Avenue to Murray Avenue. 
Turn right on Murray. Eyetique will be just 
past the 5th light (Phillips).
Must present coupon at time of purt.iia.se for discount.

---------------------------------------------------

DIVERSIONS
i .r ». \ I • ¦.Chair exhibit questions ordinary, explores ideal
By KATHY WRIGHT
Tartan Diversions Editor
We all encounter chairs on an everyday basis. We 
sit in them, but rarely do we take a step back and 
admire them (probably because you’re sitting in 
one of those ugly plastic things or a common office 
:hair). “The Modem Chair: Ideal and Real,” an 
exhibit at The Carnegie Museum of Art until Octo- 
jer 2, explores the concept of the chair: purpose, 
'orm, balance, and meaning.
The collection itself is quite small, consisting of 
eight chairs in the Forum Gallery and six identical 
:hairs in front of the museum. Each of these chairs 
goes beyond utility and steps into the realm of 
decoration (especially since they are up on pedes- 
als for display only). The forms themselves be- 
:ome more important than comfort or practicality, 
therefore questioning our ideas of what a chair 
Bhould be.
Frank Gehry, known for his cardboard furniture 
of the 1970s and 1980s, has a beautiful chair 
intirely of woven layers of bent wood in this ex- 
libit. The chair rests gently on rounded bands of 
wood, giving it a delicate, almost floating, look of 
fragility that would intimidate any sitter. This 
chair, however, seemed the most conscious of the 
notion that a human form might one day rest in its 
arms. There’s an attention to proportion and com­
fort that is lacking in the other chairs.
Of the most “ideal” chairs, Beverly Buchanan’s 
Chair for R.A. Miller is the most absurd. It tells a 
story of sorts, but beware to those who dare to sit 
in it! This rocking chair is made of old firewood and 
weatheredboards withrustednails pokingthrough 
the arms and back. It makes me wonder what she
thinks of R.A. Miller.
The largest chair, by Richard 
Artschwager, almost falls into the 
realm of the love seat. This swooping 
wonder ofbent wood and curving cush­
ions of cowhide demands space and 
attention, becoming more of an art 
form than a resting place. At times 
compared with Surrealist René 
Magritte, Artschwager often gives or­
dinary things a symbolic power of 
what they are and what they are not.
Other chairs in the exhibit became 
examples from a given era. There was 
a chair of glass from the 1939 World’s 
Fair, a wire Op Art chair from 1968, 
and a Dutch chair from the De Stijl 
(The Style) 
movement.
All of the 
chairs are 
fascinat­
ing. The ex­
hibit as a 
whole 
makes you 
conscious 
of the ordi­
nary world 
and makes 
you realize 
that it’s 
justthat— 
ordinary.
These chairs show how ordinary objects can be fun 
and practical or solely objects of art.
This crazy rocking chair (Chair for R.A. Miller, 1989 at 
left) by Beverly Buchanan would be an uncomfortable 
place to rest.
The lines of this chair by Frank 
Gehry (Power Play, 1994 at left) 
are sensitive to the human form 
complemented by a beautiful 
delicacy and attention to detail.
tone flick contaminates soul
y KATHY WRIGHT
'artan Diversions Editor
Oliver Stone (Platoon, JFK) has done 
jt again. He has taken something be- 
'ond what it should be. He’s after atten- 
ion; he always wants to do something 
iew. With Natural Bom Killers, playing 
at The Manor in Squirrel Hill, he has 
:enthe notion ofviolenceinAmerican 
ociety and magnified it by 10. He has 
ilown violence out of proportion; with 
is movie alone he could contaminate 
le minds of everyone out there. He’s 
irutal, unrelenting, and just plain evil 
"or the production of this film. This film 
loes nothing other than — and nothing 
less than — contaminate the soul.
I sat in horrified wonder as this film 
igan. I expected a parallel to Man Bites 
a faux documentary film about a 
¡erial killer, but that’s not what I got.
s movie surpassed reality and absur- 
ty and stepped into 
ibelievability.
Essentially, this 
movie is about a 
[couple, Mickey 
Woody Harrelson) 
id Malory (Juliette 
iwis), who go on a 
;hree week killing 
ipree, taking away 
the lives of 52 people.
It starts with the 
Jrutal deaths (one 
Jeaten and drowned, 
lie other burned) of 
ler mother (Edie 
SicClure) and father 
Rodney Dangerfield). 
these are almost ac­
ceptable because she 
fas sexually abused 
md generally mis- 
reated by her family.
Hie thing is, though, 
wasn’t just any 
ild family, it was a 
|Bitcom family. The 
Whole situation was 
ist bizarre. Itbecame 
ore of an aside than 
an integral part of the 
°vie; it broke the 
low of the movie as a 
whole.
After gaining her 
reedom, Malory joins 
iickey. They get mar-
thing from the Coca-Cola polar bears to 
scenes from The Texas Chainsaui Mas­
sacre pop on the screen frequently, giv­
ing some sort of message that I could not 
interpret. Although I was often aware of 
these images (most of them extremely 
bloody and gory), my fear is that they 
affected me subliminally.
Stone pursued the idea of overdosing 
and repetition to no end. At times these 
images appeared, less noticeably, in win­
dows or as disguised backgrounds in 
houses, restaurants, or as a part of the 
landscape. Of some interest, Stone also 
used animation to further grotesquely 
represent the beasts within both Mickey 
and Malory.
The plot progresses; eventually Mickey 
and Malory are caught and taken to 
prison. A host for a crime show (Robert 
Downey, Jr.) does a story about their
a record here: the most blood, the most 
bullets, the most realistic, and the most 
graphic.
To top it all off, the host of the crime 
show is still running the show live. It 
sounds funny here, but this movie suc­
cessfully dodges all humor (I have a 
sense that this wasn’t supposed to hap­
pen).
But that’s all I can tell you folks 
because I left at this point. I didn’t 
leave because of the blood, the gore, or 
the stupidity. I started feeling sick.
I looked at the two six-year-olds sit­
ting in front of me in amazement, I 
glanced around the crowded theater at 
masses staring in wide-eyed wonder.
Stone had taken the notion of a “fast 
food society” where people are swamped 
with information, choices, neon, and 
everything that is too much and made
killing spree. After they have been in it into a movie. He held everyone cap- 
prison a year, he decides that he would tive by doing too much. People had
become zombies.
Not only was I sick 
at this notion, but I 
was seared. I was 
afraid of the charac­
ters that Stone had 
createdin Mickey and 
Malory. I feared for 
my life, not out of para­
noia, but because of 
the images presented 
on the screen. Some­
one in that audience 
could have had a gun; 
after that movie, any 
personmighthave de­
cided to use it against 
themselves or against 
everyone else. This 
wasn’t just a movie; it 
was a campaign that 
took hold of your 
heart, soul, and mind. 
The contamination 
will be hard to purify; 
those images will not 
go away.
Rarely do I walk out 
of a movie, but, for 
the sake of my own 
life, leaving this one 
was a necessity. I al­
most regret writing 
about this movie be­
cause it required me 
to think about it. I 
have never seen a film 
that has such an in­
herent evilness. 
Beware of what you are getting your­
self into if you see this film: it’s not 
entertainment. I can’t even tell you 
what it is because this movie was be­
yond me and beyond anything that has 
ever been made before.
Natural Born Killers is for those who 
have no sense of self, no respect for
Richard Artschwager's Chair, 1987-90, (above) commands 
attention at The Carnegie Museum of Art display.
Discover quality theater 
in Pittsburgh, on campus
By RICH SMOLEN
Tartan Staffwriter
Losing the battle against television 
and movies, theater seems forever on 
the decline. Yet it is alive and well in 
the Pittsburgh area in over 30 profes­
sional and amateur theaters.
Unfortunately, only a few regularly 
put on quality productions. It is one 
thing to put on a play; it is quite an­
other to communicate with and enter­
tain today’s skeptical, impatient audi­
ences. Not to diminish the important 
role that community theaters play, but 
a measure of experience and profes­
sionalism is needed to make live the­
ater work; too often small companies 
have neither. They rely on enthusiasm, 
and the results are painfully dull.
Thus I will concentrate on the big 
three here and in upcoming reviews: 
the Pittsburgh Public Theater, City The­
ater, and Carnegie Mellon’s very own 
Kresge Stage.
The Pittsburgh Public Theater on the 
North Side, a League of Resident The­
aters (LORT B) theater, has seen spec­
tacular productions and impressive sea­
sons in the past.
This is their 20th anniversary sea­
son; the season itself is rather disap­
pointing artistically, but sure to be en­
tertaining as the music of Cole Porter 
and Billie Holiday are celebrated. One
bright spot will be the spring production 
of Shakespeare’s As You Like It pro­
duced in association with the Hunting­
ton Theater Company of Boston.
City Theater on the South Side is an 
equity theater as well. It tends to take 
more chances with its productions, as it 
caters to a younger audience. Headlin­
ing its season are some significant 
names: David Ives’ hilarious collection 
of short plays titled All in the Timing, 
currently running Off-Broadway; Spunk 
by Broadway director George C. Wolfe; 
and Slavs by Tony Kushner (whose Tony 
award winning-ArcgeZs in America is still 
on Broadway).
You can see tomorrow’s Broadway 
stars here on the Kresge stage in pro­
ductions that make Broadway itself look 
tame and uninspired.
Opening the Kresge season is 
Machinal which runs for less than a 
week in late September. Perhaps an 
appropriate show for a technical univer­
sity such as CMU, Machinal by Sophie 
Treadwell exemplifies her view of the 
dehumanizing effects of modern civili­
zation. At only $5 per ticket, this is a 
show not to be missed.
Watch for posters on campus advertis­
ing shows in Carnegie Mellon’s Studio 
Theater (the small building between 
GSIA and CFA). All productions there 
are free, so there’s no excuse not to at­
tend and support the theater!
© Paramount Pictures
Woody Harrelson doesn't look this sweet while mutilating the masses as 
led (not really, just Mickey Knox In Natural Bom Killers. 
ome hippie-dippy
hing with swapping blood) and they like to do a live one-on-one interview 
Irive around and murder people in their with Mickey.
laths. Of course, all mayhem breaks loose.
There’s a certain amount of surreal- The show was broadcast to all of the 
Mn to this sequence of events because inmates, who start rioting; Mickey gains 
that “movie control and kills several guards. Kill, 
o— - mownfor. The shoot, bang, bang, pow, blood, blood,
I®1“ constantly switches from grainy blood... saveMalory—yea! More blood....____________________ ,______
black and white to color. Clips of every- And on and on and on. Stone is going for others, and an indifference towards life.
Local theaters
Pittsburgh Public Theater
Allegheny Square 
Pittsburgh, PA 15212 
321-9800
How to get there: Take the 54C bus to 
the North Side, getting off at East 
Ohio St. and Cedar Ave. Walk along 
East Ohio, crossing Cedar, until you 
hit Allegheny Square.
Cost
Regular Prices: $25.50 to $34.50 per 
show
Student Rush: 50 percent off remain­
ing tickets one half hour before per­
formance
Miles Plan: $7 tickets for science stu­
dents which may be purchased in ad­
vance.
Student Subscription: $50 for five 
shows.
City Theater 
57 South 13th St.
Pittsburgh, PA 15203
431-4400
How to get there: Take the 54C bus to 
the South Side, getting off at East 
Carson St. and 19th St. Walk along E. 
Carson to 13th St., turn right, and 
walk one block down 13th.
Cost
Regular Prices: $17 to $25 per show 
Student Rush: 50 percent off remain­
ing tickets one half hour before perfor­
mance
Tuesday Nights: Tickets are two-for- 
one for students, and may be pur­
chased in advance.
Carnegie Mellon Drama (Kresge)
College of Fine Arts
268-2407
How to get there: Main floor, CFA 
building.
Cost
StudentSubscription: $23 to all shows 
except Machinal.
Machinal: $5, general admission

---------------------------------------------------

LIOThe Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 6 September 1994
Club Hub ?
Tuesday, September 6
TBA
The Decade
G-
The Smithereens and Thickhead Grin
Graffitti
Ur
Wednesday, September 7
Fuzz Beloved and Against
Electric Banana
TripleX
Metropol
Open Stage w/ Those Guys
Artery
Thursday, September 8
Mace
Luciano’s Coffeehouse
Friday, September 9
Brownie Mary w/ The Pine Dogs
Nick’s Fat City
Saturday, September 10
Suptzy P The Soul Providers ^ r
Nick’s Fat City
Sunday, September 11
Rock and Roll Expo
Holiday Inn University Center (Pitt)
a
The Balcony 5520 Walnut St., 687-0110 
The Decade 223 Atwood St., 682-1211 
Graffiti 4615 Baum Blvd., 682-8296 
Metropol 1600 Smallman Ave., 261-4512 
Rosebud 1650 Smallman St., 261-2221 
Electric Banana 3887 Bigelow Blvd., 682-4210 
Luciano’s Coffeehouse 1023 Forbes Ave., 281-6877 
Bloomfield Bridge Tavern 682-8611 
Nick’s Fat City 1601-1603 E.Carson St. 481-6880/1
GRAND OPENING CELEBRATION!
Friday, September 9 thru Sunday, September 11
FREE
Pizza • Balloons • Prizes and more! PLUS... iufswmu, me gsp r CiPP frcu 
wtwmuc gsm’ r tur, eb CiPP frcu ,upmrow—
• ; .. ,¦ ' • • ••...... .. ¦: ' ’
vM ; .
GAME POWER
HEADQUARTERS
1pwsyu 9uwm 2erwm 3syue$
CARRICK PLAZA0600 K,egpwMsoou iery -smmwBI,f’F -Y 6O06U SS6E0SNU
SQUIRREL HILL6WUU .I,,rt YMupIu -smmwBI,f’F -Y 6O06{ l00EW066
GRAFTON6UU Cewmu, YMupIu 
1pf,rcF -Y 6O0UO
$3 OFF
1 rpt pug frcu dI,a’rwu—
6 9" 1DD6T6ON1L 
! STORE CRED6T
be, rpt BItBran eMu, H0U.1FREE
GAME 
RENTAL
g’up teI ,upm 0 frcuw rm ,ufIor, d,sau—
, totto co corbnoa win ary oiner Itdoes aUMM o wu I**)««'«» wo woj ououoo • mo \C uoj SSOSS'S 0X1 CO_CCn DC CLSXXTV X' 03/I Scxrorosrco-Grra/ccct/ SoostrofcrcaaB I Scmoitescxramt/¡cct/ Seoscrota-ootas I Sorroros7acrsrro/accty Saastxotoaats I CXferooresiVlB'SM I 0\r sores an I Crty acxos 9/1BW
; GAME\\POWER \ GAHE^POWER \ GAMEV.POWER
Comic great reveals opinions, secrets
COMIC BOOK 
CHRONICLES
by Jason Andracki
My first summer break from 
college started off great. I at­
tended a real comic convention 
(the Pittsburgh Comicon at the 
Expo Mart) for the first time on 
the day classes ended (that’s April 
29 if you’re in denial about being 
here last spring and still being 
here this fall). I spent what little 
money I had and met some of the 
coolest Comicon guests.
I was honored to not only meet 
and get the autographs of John 
Byrne {John Byrne’s Next Men, 
Danger Unlimited), and Mike 
Grell and Mike Gold (Shamen’s 
Tears, Jon Sable), but I also had 
the opportunity to interview each 
of them. Look for some of these 
highlights in my upcoming col­
umns.
After registering for the ’con I 
made my way to the Artists’ Alley 
and approached John Byrne’s 
table. I took advantage of the 
short line and approached him 
about a possible interview.
As he jotted his signature in my 
copy of The Man of Steel #1, he 
told me that when he took a break 
around 2 p.m. he’d do the inter­
view. My stomach butterflied as I 
browsed the dealers and fretted 
over my upcoming interview with 
the new “King of Comics.”
As 2 loomed near my nervous­
ness intensified, so I reanalyzed 
my questions and paced the ’con 
until that moment. Precisely at 
2, Mr. Byrne took his break. We 
ducked behind his table for the 
interview as I told him (a la Wayne 
and Garth) that I wasn’t worthy.
I had to ask “the King” how he 
got into comics. “I’ve always 
drawn since I was a little kid,” 
Byrne said. Most people have,
but he pursued this childhood 
hobby by attending art school in 
Calgary (that’s in Canada for you 
non-geography majors and 
hockey fans).
It was at art school that the 
first stirrings of comic book cre­
ation occurred with a first year 
project that became a one-shot 
comic titledDeath’s Head Knight. 
The book was only printed once 
and distributed on campus.
Oddly enough, according to 
Byrne, these rare books still show 
up every once in a while at
Byrne said that he was working 
on this year’s Action Comics 
“Elseworlds” Annual. Byrne ex­
plained that his relationships 
with the two companies were very 
similar and that time restraints 
determine which projects he does.
He just recently turned down a 
Marvel offer to do an extension of 
their highly successful Marvels 
limited series. (Note: Comic Shop 
News rumored last week that 
Byrne was working on a DC/Mar­
vel crossover concerning Darkseid 
and Galactus.)
signings and conventions.
After reading Byrne’s com­
plaints about Image in his “A 
Flame About This High” columns, 
I had to ask if he thought Dark 
Horse was still the number three 
comics publisher (trailing Mar­
vel and DC) as he said in a Pre­
views interview about John 
Byrne's Next Men (JBNM). “In 
intent, yes, but in sales, no,” he 
said.
While on the subject of Marvel 
and DC, I asked if his relation­
ship differed with either company 
since he recently did some covers 
for DC’s Milestone books, and he 
hadn’t done anything noticeable 
for Marvel since he left She-Hulk.
Kathy Wright/ Tartan Diversions Editor
Many of the questions I asked 
to satisfy my own curiosity, such 
as why the Legend imprint is the 
Easter Island head. Byrne ex­
plained that he and Frank Miller 
(Sin City, Batman: Dark Knight 
Returns) were trying to think of a 
strong, easily recognizable sym­
bol for Legend. Although they 
weren’t even together at the time, 
they both (miraculously) thought 
of the Easter Island head simul­
taneously.
When asked if there was ever a 
character that he has never writ­
ten or drawn that he would like 
to, he said, “Ralph Macchio asked 
me to do Doctor Strange,” but he 
turned it down and regretted it.
If he could work with anyone, 
past or present, who would it be? 
His immediate answer was Jack 
Kirby (who changed the face of< 
all comic writing everywhere), 
with Wally Wood, and Joe Hubert 
(founder of Joe Kubert’s School of 
Art) following close second. I also 
asked how an admitted atheist 
could write a story like “Faith” 
from JBNM numbers 19 through 
22. “I’m an atheist; Jack (the Next 
Men member who was exposed to 
Christianity in the series) isn’t.’
Since Byrne is very opinion­
ated in his column, I wanted to( 
hear his opinion on a couple hot 
topics. He feels self-publishing is 
great for the industry. However, 
he wasn’t nearly as supportive of 
the Comics Code Authority 
(CCA). With all the blood and, 
guts in today’s comics, in order 
for the CCA to survive, Byrne 
believes it has to “get some more 
teeth.” This was also demon­
strated by Sirius Publishing’s 
cleavage revealing costume forj 
their Shi model.
He also showed negative feel­
ings towards all of the sudden 
changes in comics like 
Superman’s ‘death’ and Batman’s 
‘fall.’Byrne said, “Change is good,( 
but the illusion of change isn’t,” 
and the creators should be “more 
considerate” rather than going 
for the quick hit.
My first interview with a comic 
book professional (read about the 
second and third next week) went 
extremely well. John Byrne was 
very polite, talkative, and quite 
funny. It was like reading one of 
his letter columns, only better 
since he was right there in per-, 
son.
As a final thought, I asked 
Byrne where the joke “A Flame 
About This High” (the title of his 
column) came from. He asked, 
“Do you know what really burns 
my ass?” “What?” I asked. (Hold­
ing hand waist high), “A flame 
about this high.”
Jason Andracki is a sophomort || 
in English.of£&? '
-1
i
PACKARD BELL MULTIMEDIA 
COMPUTER SYSTEM WITH MONITORR0—C« ye‘aodao‘sUUoaY AG m8xY R m• '5m ”rd­aiusiN.s to *— m•!Y 
A3$ m• fiau ueUS uaewsL3— ms, *l3LA- 3nRR m• b.oddT ueUS uaewsY .o‘i. bus weusoY Q2v Co‘Sstn :fass 3—lNet sMdicUeoc U.ot icu tfass uaews 
NiTUn 2ctsaci. uri. Udssu kpl'9m uaewsY Corcu •.iUtsa Oao II ‘oyditeN.s Uorcu ‘iauY diea ob Uits..ets Utsaso UdsiSsaUn 2c‘.rusU yocetoaY yousy icu yorUsn 3lTsia oclUets hiaaictTn
PRE-LOADED SOFTWARE INCLUDES: mClp9CY mC FecuohUYOi‘Siau •s.. ,iwe­itoaY •rUecsUUY Dur‘iteoci. icu Dctsatiecysct CobthiasY d.rU kp :et.sUn
No. 621-227n,T5O
EPSON STYLUS 800 INKJET PRINTER
225 characters per second, 360 dpi resolution, 7 resident fonts, 4 scalable typefaces. 100-sheet paper capacity. 2-year manufacturer's limited warranty.
No. 557-942 List 449.00
V
Packard Bell
EPSON
O/ I wtrtnwvl No monthly payment option for 6 months. We pay finance charges if you pay within 6 months. For
/ O III ICvl I approved purchases of $299 or more, when you use or open an Office Depot Personal Credit
r - Account, The Technology Card, to purchase any Computer, Business Machine or FurnitureCe, N .epm’w related item.
"Finance charges and optional insurance charges on your purchases will accrue during the promotional period, but payments will not be required, if you pay for the purchases in full within the 
promotional period, these charges will be credited to your account (APR 18% in CO, IA, ME, NC and Wl. 19.8% in all other states. Minimum FINANCE CHARGES of up to $.50 may be 
assessed). Thereafter, finance charges will continue at the applicable rate noted above. Credit subject to approval by Monogram Credit Card Bank of Georgia._________________________________
Bethel Park
4000 Oxford Dr. 
[At Route 19)
17’412) 831-5177 
=dgewood
1763 S. BraddockAve. 
Edgewood Towne Center) 
412)244-8004
Monroeville
4049 William Penn Hwy.i
Jonnet Plaza)
412) 856-5260 
lortn Hills 
7377 McKnight Rd. 
(Ross Towne Center) 
(412) 369-9902
West Mifflin
2325 Mountain View Dr. 
(Century Square)
(412)653-6680
OPEN DAILY: 8:00am-9:00pm SAT.: 9:00am-9:00pm SUN.: 11:00am-6:00pm 
WE ACCEPT: Discover, Visa, Mastercard, American Express &
Office Depot Credit Card & The Technology Card
Our Low Price Guarantee!
If you see an identical item 
advertised at a lower price, show us 
the current advertisement, and 
you'll get the lower price, plus 50% 
of the difference as a credit toward 
your purchase when you buy it from 
us (maximum $50 credit). Ad 
errors, closeouts and clearances do 
not qualify.
President, Office Depot

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 6 September 1994in
Thursday, September 8
Swimming to Cambodia
Some would think that a man sitting behind a 
desk talking about Cambodia, a movie called The 
Killing Fields, and drugs would not make for an 
entertaining evening. However, when the man is 
Spaulding Gray, the experience is infinitely im­
proved.
Swimming to Cambodia, directed by Jonathan 
Demme in 1987, is a monologue delivered by Gray 
to a live audience, captured on film. Gray’s inter­
esting technique changes the anecdotal writing 
into an experience not to be missed. The author of 
Monster in the Box and Spaulding Gray: Terrors of 
Pleasure, his live performances are highly re­
garded as wonders of monologue, and a recent 
Pittsburgh appearance sold out, though the tick­
ets cost well over $100. So get ready to sit down and 
speak with Spaulding Gray about drugs and sex. 
You’ll probably enjoy it.
At 6, 8,10 pm and midnight.
Friday, September 9
Strictly Ballroom
Strictly Ballroom is a very fanny movie. This fact 
has been reiterated constantly since the film was 
released in 1992. The plot, however, is a bit hazy. 
Released in Australia, this film revolves around a 
set of dance students competing in the Grand 
Pacific Grand Prix Championship. One handsome 
student, Scott (Paul Mercucio), loses his dance 
partner and is forced to perform with the mousy 
Fran (Tara Morice), who teaches him passion and 
Flamenco. The romance and dancing that ensue 
make for some fine comedic fare. Granted, the 
story seems a bit basic, but Strictly Ballroom is a 
very fanny movie.
Directed and acted by relative unknowns, this 
film is not star-studded by any means. However, 
powerful acting on the part of Mercucio and Morice 
fills this two hour film with excitement and action. 
And, of course, it is a very funny movie.
At 6, 8,10 pm and midnight.
Saturday, September 10
The Muppet Movie
This movie is self-explanatory. It deals with 
muppets, Jim Henson’s cuddly cloth and plastic 
creations that walk, talk and generally create 
mirth and mayhem on the screen. One would be 
hard pressed to find someone who has not seen 
this, so a plot synopsis is unnecessary. However, 
the film basically deals with the Kermit the Frog’s 
cross-country journey to Hollywood and his adven­
tures along the way. And boy, does Kermit have 
some nice looking legs.
Complete with an all-star cameo cast including 
Milton Berle, Dom DeLuise, and Bob Hope, The 
Muppet Movie is a film for the whole family. The 
whimsical characters and fan plot make it a won­
derful Saturday night movie.
At 6, 8,10 pm and midnight.
Sunday, September 11
Glen or Glenda
This is scary stuff. We’re talking wet-your-pants 
scary. In this incomparable film directed by Ed­
ward Wood Jr., a young transvestite battles with 
his inner demons as he struggles to gain enough 
courage to ask his best girl if he can wear her 
sweater. Horror mounts as the movie progresses, 
creating oozing tendrils of fear that will wrap 
around your legs and pull you in. I mean all of this. 
Bela Lugosi is the only big-name star in this 1953 
scare-athon.
At 6, 8,10 pm and midnight.
By JOHN BIGGS
Hoodoo Gurus rock on new album
mg about the album, I’d say there 
are two strong, defining moments 
in my life that guide me in decid­
ing whether I like a rock and roll 
band or not. The first was when I 
(no old jokes, please, I’ve heard 
them all) was a young kid and my 
brother bought the first 
Aerosmith album. The album was
By ANDREW SPROULE
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
“How do you do that Hoodoo 
Guru that you do so well?” to 
paraphrase a very old and very 
un-rock and roll song. I know it 
will seem like a cop out, but the 
best way to describe the sound of 
this band is to say 
they sound like 
the Hoodoo Gu­
rus. And yes, it is 
a cop out. I’ll try 
to do better. I 
promise.
If one wants to 
put a definition on 
rock and roll, 
simple would be 
the best word to 
sum it up. Sure, 
loud and fun 
helps, but being 
simple is essen­
tial for good rock 
and roll. Early 
Aerosmith, the 
Ramones, Barry 
Manilow, the Sex 
Pistols, REM 
(first five albums), 
and more re­
cently, Green 
Day, all held true 
to this rock and 
roll axiom. The 
Hoodoo Gurus are 
carrying on that 
tradition. Not the 
Barry Manilow 
part — I just put 
that in there to see 
if you were paying 
attention.
Actually, I 
should say that 
they are continu­
ing the tradition.
They have five previous albums: good, but the song “Mama Kin” 
Stoneage Romeos, Mars Needs was pure rock and roll brilliance. 
Guitars, Blow Your Cool, Mag- It still is. The driving guitars, 
numCumLouderandKitty. With pounding bass and drums, and 
Crank, their newest collection of the screeching vocals of Steven 
tunes, they have perfected the Tyler took me to a new plateau of 
rock and roll art. rock and roll adoration. The
Tobreakawaybrieflyfromtalk- Hoodoo Gurus came very close to
doing that for me.
The appropriately titled Crank 
rips right into the heart of rock 
with its opener “The Right Time,” 
and rarely slows down to give you 
a breather. It does have the occa­
sional down time song and even 
those stay true to rock and roll 
simplicity.
This funky album cover Is perfect for the Hoodoo Gurus' new album, Crank. Look for this one In 
stores; it's a great listen.
Throughout the entire album I 
heard many riffs and melodies 
that reminded me of my rock and 
roll past. “Hypocrite Blues” has 
the exact same melody as “Louie,
Louie,” yet manages not to sound 
like it at all.
The Gurus even manage to pay
tribute to the likes of the Par­
tridge Family and The Archies 
with a straight, sappy love song. 
Don’t be put off by this, though, 
because the song is a good listen.
If social and political commen­
tary are what you’re looking for, 
the Gurus knock televangelists 
in “Gospel Train” with some nice 
biting commentary 
on the people in that 
profession. I person­
ally think the topic 
has been beaten into 
the ground by every­
one and would not 
have chosen to write 
a song about it, but 
then again I don’t 
have my own record 
contract.
The second defin­
ing moment that I re­
ferred to earlier, was 
when there was an 
ice storm and I didn’t 
have anything to 
scrape the ice off of 
my windshield with. 
I ran into the office 
and looked for some­
thing to use. I found 
a Boy George CD and 
used it. While I was 
scraping (it worked 
surprisingly well) I 
thought to myself, “I 
would only do this to 
something I really 
hate.” From that 
point on, that was 
how I determined my 
love or hate for a 
record. “Would I use 
this to scrape ice off 
my car?” Not with 
Hoodoo Gurus’ 
Crank. I think I 
might even keep this 
one in its protective case.
In a world that is less than 
perfect, it is worth going out and 
buying a little piece of rock and 
roll perfection. I’m sorry about 
that last statement, I just didn’t 
feel that I had enough album 
reviewisms. Now I do.
Adv
Pain reliever/Fever reducer
¡JpiCATIONS: For the temporary relief of
!!!Ioractles and Pains associated with the cold’ headache, toothache, mus- 
nf ri ?s’ backache, for the minor pa«] rram ' ^or ^e pain of menstrual 
mPs, and for reduction of fever.
SUMMER’S OVER.
Thank goodness there’s Advil.® Advanced medicine for pain”
Pick up your free sample at CMU Co-op Store.
Whie supplies Iasi during book rush. AdvJ contains ibuprofen. Use only as directed. 01994 Whitehall Laboratories. Madiscn.NJ.
i
r

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan has been the student newspaper of Carnegie 
Mellon University since 1906. If you would like to become 
a part of this tradition, join us at our recruitment meeting:
Tartan Recruitment Meeting 
Wednesday, September 7,7 pm 
Drill Deck, Student Center
We offer positions for writers, editors, photographers, artists, 
proofreaders, accountants, advertising representatives, and 
layout designers.
Deep freeze!
Severe cold closes University
Union brat 
for walk-o
IVCF status comes under fire
Bylaws force Senate to reconsider group’s recognition
111 JAMI.VTUUYE* U I..-! l- ...
"You don't exclude people right off 
the bat by Including It In your by­
laws."
— Crystal Trexol, 
Senate F&R committee chair
Guard will be poste
Call the Tartan Office at 268-2111 or stop by the Student Center room 104 for more information.
