September Sees First Classes 
In Scaife Engineering Hall
Special Workshop 
Develops Leadership
The Alan M. Scaife Engineering Hail
Tech Campus Continues Changing
^ When a student returns from 
his summer vacation to Carnegie 
Tech, he usually discovers that 
the landscape of the campus is 
somewhat different from the way 
he left it in the spring. Fall of 
1962 offers no exception to this 
discovery. The buildings complet­
ed during the past summer vaca­
tion were the annex to Morewood 
^Gardens, “E Tower,” and the new 
"engineering and science building, 
the Alan M. Scaife Engineering 
Hall.
“Tower E,” which cost approxi­
mately $1,485,000 to build, houses 
217 girls and several families. The 
bottom two floors are made up of 
small apartments which house 
women graduate students, married 
students, and faculty members. 
^Each apartment on the first floor
* as its own street entrance. Al­
though there are variations in the
designs of each apartment, gener­
ally, each consists of a living 
room, a bedroom, a kitchenette, 
and a bath.
From the third to the seventh 
floors, E-Tower is a dormitory 
with room for forty-four girls on 
each floor. The new and old dorms 
are connected by a hall which 
runs over the Morewood cafeteria. 
Each double room has built-in 
book cases, and cork which may 
be used as bulletin boards. Some 
have window seats. There are 
telephone outlets in each room, 
and any girl may have her own 
private phone installed.
The Alan M. Scaife Hall, at a 
cost of $2,000,000, is a gift to Tech 
from the Sarah Mellon Scaife 
Foundation. Besides classrooms, 
the building houses labs for nu­
clear research, the computation 
center, and offices for deans of
Fraternity Rush Schedule
Wed., Sept. 26—Lunch (commuters only)—11:30-1:30 p.m. 
Thurs., Sept. 27—Dinner and Coffee Hour—5:00-7:30 p.m. 
Fri., Sept. 28—Dinner and Coffee Hour—5:00-7:30 p.m.
Sat., Sept. 29—Date Party—8:00 to 1:00 p.m.
Sun., Sept 30—Open House—2:00-6:00 p.m.
Mon., Oct. 1—Pledging—5:00 p.m.
Engineering and Science center, 
and offices for deans of Engineer­
ing and Science. Scaife Hall, 
which extends from the main part 
of the new building is an audi­
torium which seats one hundred 
people.
Besides being air conditioned, 
Scaife Hall has a sun screen plac­
ed four feet from the outside wall 
of the building, which extends 
the entire way around it. The 
screen, which is made of alumi­
num strips, keeps the sun’s rays 
out of the hall until 4:30 every 
afternoon. This is made possible 
because of the inside of Scaife 
Hall is ceramic tile which lines 
the stairwells, ceilings, and walls 
of the building’s lobby.
The completion of these two 
additions to Tech’s campus marks 
the end of the first half of Car­
negie Tech’s ten-year develop­
ment program.
There have also been some 
housing changes on campus this 
year due to the opening of the 
new Morewood Gardens addition. 
Forbes and Schiller Halls, former­
ly women’s dorms, are being put 
to other uses. Forbes is being used 
as a graduate house for single 
men. There are 41 men now liv­
ing there. The double rooms in 
the annex have been converted to 
singles. Dr. David Bishop is the 
resident head.
Kappa Sigma Fraternity, last 
year living in a house off campus, 
has now moved to Schiller Hall. 
They will occupy it only tempor­
arily until some arrangements for 
another house can be made.
Psychology of Leadership is a workshop co-sponsored 
by Student Congress and the Y’s designed to give practical 
training for leaders of campus organizations, although it is 
open to anyone interested in strengthening their capacity 
to lead groups. Using materials, and insight developed by 
the National Training Laboratories, the workshop will focus
on the hidden forces working#-----------------------------------------------------
within groups. In addition, mem­
bers of the workshop will have 
a chance to suggest specific topics 
and problems of group leadership 
they would like to have covered.
This will not be a series of lec­
tures! Instead, the workshop mem­
bers will participate in role play­
ing, demonstration situations and 
other devices designed to illus­
trate the concepts being consider­
ed. During the spring semester 
last year more than twenty lead­
ers representing fraternities, so­
rorities, publications, religious 
groups, Dorm Councils, and other 
types of campus organizations 
were enrolled in a similar work­
shop. In evaluating their experi­
ence, the participants indicated 
the Workshop had been very 
helpful to them, and strongly 
urged that it be repeated again 
this year, Richard Batchelder and 
Verna Volz, the YMCA and YW- 
CA Campus staff, will act as co­
ordinators, although other facul­
ty and resources will be brought 
in as needed.
The Workshop will meet for six 
sessions on Thursday evenings 
from 6:15 to 8:30 p.m. in Room 
56, Skibo from October 18 through 
December 6 (except November 15 
and 22). Registration is $3.00 for 
either Y members or non-mem­
bers. Registrations are due in 
room 57, Skibo by October 15.
Correct Tech 
Caricatures!
You can caricature a Tech en­
gineer as a man with hornrimmed 
glasses and a hip-holster slide- 
rule—and man who will soon dis­
appear under a pile of books, re­
appearing ony to trudge to class.
You can caricature a Maggie 
Murph as a woman who is dedi­
cated only to engineers and a 
Fine Arts student as an esoteric 
type with no patience for “out­
siders”.
Caricatures aren’t always ac­
curate, but they can be. Well- 
rounded engineers, Maggie 
Murphs who don’t giggle too 
much, and Fine Arts students 
who humor non - professionals 
should band together.
How? Patterns. Together, staff 
members from many departments 
produce a good literary and art 
magazine from the original work 
of Tech students.
Whatever your field, Patterns 
wants you. We are very inter­
ested in having graduate and 
foreign students on the staff this 
year.
Jr. Honorary 
Organizes 
Tutor Program
Phi Tau Gamma, junior wo­
men’s honorary, has organized its 
tutoring program for the coming 
year. It is designed to help fresh­
man women in particular and also 
sophomore women who want help.
Each Phi Tau Gamma member 
will serve as mentor to about 15 
freshmen and will guide them in 
any of their academic problems. 
In problems with a specific sub­
ject, she will direct them to a 
member who has had previous ex­
perience with the subject.
The new officers of Phi Tau 
Gamma, their activities, and 
where they can be contacted are:
Arlene Shaheen, president 
member of Chi Omega Sorority, 
Carnegie Technical staff, and floor 
counselor at MU 2-8896.
Andrea Vidakovic, vice presi­
dent, member of Chi Omega So­
rority, features editor of the Car­
negie Technical, member of the 
leadership committee of Student 
[Continued on page 3]
Join us this Sunday at seven, 
room 36, Skibo.
CFP Promotes 
Scholarship
The Council of Fraternity Pres­
idents, in an effort to raise the 
level of pledge scholarship, has 
formed a pledge scholarship com­
mittee. This committee will en­
deavor to stimulate an added Ín­
teres* in scholarship on the part 
of the pledges and create a close 
relationship between the pledges 
and the faculty.
A complete record of the grades 
of pledges will be kept. On the 
basis of this record, faculty help 
sessions will be arranged to aid 
pledges who are having difficulty 
with their courses. Also, on dates 
before examinations review semi­
nars will be held to further aid 
in raising pledge scholarship.
The Council of Fraternity Presi­
dents hopes that these measures 
will help the pledges in becoming 
responsible students and citizens 
of Tech.
«^CARNEGIE
TARTAN
-------------------- ----------- --------- ------------- ----------- ------- m
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 55 — NUMBER 2 WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1962

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, September 26, 1962
COLUMBIA SPECIAL PRODUCTS CT
A Service cf Columbia Recorrisi-—^
Dave Brubeck
I'm in a Dancing Mood
Ray Cooniff
Miles Davis
The Brothers Four
Marianne
André Previn
Duke Ellington
Perdtdo
Carmen McRae
Parad'ddle Joe
Roy Hamilton
Gerry Mulligan
What Is There To Say
Everything's Coming Up Rosei
Lambert, Hendri¡
Cloudburst
Buddy Greco
The Lady Is i Tramp
View Strange 
Underworld
A strange and wonderful sub­
terranean world is open to the 
spelunker. The eternal darkness, 
pcnetratd only by artificial light, 
is filled with formation of all 
shapes and sizes. An exploration 
of a cave not generally visited is 
an unforgettable expericrce.
Preparation for the big and 
beautiful grottos of West Virginia 
starts with visits to the local 
eaves. The only equ:pment need­
ed is old clothes, carbide or elec­
tric lamp, flashlight, candle, and 
helmet. Later in the semester, 
beginners cave trips will be an­
nounced by the Carnegie Tech 
Explorers Club. At present, Sun­
day trips are leaving Skibo at 
8:0 where beginners are invited 
to learn Rock Clumbing skills. For 
information see T. Parkinson, 116 
Scobell Hall.
Bank Designs 
Memorial
Arnold Bank, well known typo­
grapher, calligrapher, and design­
er, and currently associate pro­
fessor of graphic arts at Tech, 
designed a memorial to John D. 
Rockefeller, Jr., which was un­
veiled earlier this month in New 
York.
The memorial, a sixteen-ton 
green marble slab, is set at the 
foot of the Channel Gardens, 
which lead from Fifth Avenue to 
to sunken central area of Rock­
efeller Plaza. On the memorial are 
inscribed the ten statements com­
posing the creed by which Rock­
efeller lived.
BULLETIN BOARD
Organization Officers
Will the officers of ALL 
campus organizations please 
sign the roster in Dr. Strict’s 
office.
Alpha Phi Omega
An open meeting of Alpha Phi 
Omega will be held on Thursday, 
September 27 at 7:30 p.m. in the 
Hilander Room, Skibo. All stu­
dents with Scouting background 
who are interested in joining A 
Phi O are invited to attend. Re­
freshments will be served after 
the meeting.
PiDE Meeting
There will be a PiDE meeting 
on Tuesday nignt, October 2, 1962 
in Room 40, Skibo. There will be 
an initiation ot new members and 
a fall call will be discussed.
ties this fall and winter at the 
Civic Arena and the South Park 
skating rink.
Each year several out-of-town 
students attending local univer­
sities customarily set out to track 
down this organization. These are 
persons v/ho belong to similiar 
clubs in other cities and who wish 
to skate with a club while attend­
ing school in Pittsburgh.
Those interested in this pro­
gram, which will offer about 100 
hours of skating time during the 
1962-63 season at the Civic Arena 
and about 154 hours of skating 
time at South Park should con­
tact Mrs. Dorothy Pade, member­
ship chairman, at LO 3-1423.
Figure Skating
The Pittsburgh Figure Skating 
Club, a non-profit group com­
posed of amateur ice skaters in 
the Pittsburgh district, would like 
to welcome Carnegie Tech stu­
dents to participate in its activi-
STUDENT WIVES 
WANTED
Tech Dame?, an organization of 
students’ wives who meet the sec­
ond Tuesday evening each month 
for social and educational activi­
ties, invite you to join them this 
year.
We start the season with a Tea, 
on Sunday, September 30, at two 
o’clock in Skibo. Mr. Stanton
Belfour will be our guest speaker 
and you‘11 have a chance to have 
a guided tour of Tech’s campus.
Our president, Joan Keane, will 
explain our “Interest Groups”
which consist of Bridge, Foo^5; 
Knitting, Sewing, Arts and Crafts, 
Physical Fitness, and Book Re­
view.
We hope to see you there.
. . . the number of personal checks you write a 
year. Then figure how much you’d save if they 
were all free. They are, if you bank at Union 
National. Keep a $200 minimum balance and 
there’s no item, meter or maintenance charge. It 
adds up to a healthy savings over a year. For de­
tails, stop in at any convenient office.
THE UNION NATIONAL BANK 
OF PITTSBURGH
CARNEGGI STIUGIAGIE OTFHEATIL Y BTK SHI PHI* •AEN »l Py nH•
*•»•»»• lyni ha*« f Deposit lawrnn CuT»'Mi*n
Great new record offer ($3.98 value)...just $1.00 
when you buy Sheaffer’s back-to-school special !
to*« Hi AND CITY I, N Y, i
Now when you buy your Sheaffer Cartridge Pen for 
school, you get 98*1 worth of Skrip cartridge» FREE...a 
$3.93 value for just $2.95. Look for Sheaffer’s back-to- 
school special now at stores everywhere. On the back of 
the package, there’s a bonus for you ... a coupon good for a $3.98 value Columbia limited-edit ion record. It’s 
**Swingin’ Sound”, twelve top artists playing top hits for 
the first time on a 12' L.P. This doubU-value back-to- 
school offer good only while they last! So hurry, choose 
your Sheaffer Cartridge Pen from five smart colors... and 
mail your "Swingin’ Sound” record coupon today.
Cleopatra, with feminine guile.
Said to Tony, “Let's barge do«« the Nite!** 
When she reached for an asp.
Her belt lost Its clasp.
So she stapled it up Swingline style.
SWINGLINE
STAPLER
G*t it at any stationery, variety, or boo* store*cm* Fat efor ihc$e used
SHEAFFER’S BACK-TO-SCHOOL SPECIAL! 
New cartridge pen with 98* worth of cartridges FREE.
LiWDi r.O»C cha LdWDu

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, September 26, 1962 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Page 3
Foundation Plans Study 
Of Existentialist Movements
Existentialism and Contempo­
rary Culture, co-sponsored by the 
Y’s and Hillel Foundation, will 
deal with the influence of the 
,F^istentialist and Phenomenologi­
cal movements in European phil­
osophy on contemporary culture. 
Particular stress will be placed 
upon the impact of Existentialism 
on contemporary religious thought 
and literature. A number of con­
temporary thinkers will be stud­
ied. No previous training in 
philosophy will be required.
% Dr. Richard L. Rubenstein, Di­
rector of the Hillel Foundation 
and Chaplain to Jewish students 
will be the lecturer; he has done 
graduate work in both Jewish and 
Christian theological seminaries 
and is a popular lecturer. It will 
meet seven Wednesdays from 4:30 
to 5:50 p.m. in Room 40, Skibo be­
ginning October 3 and ending No­
vember 14.
£ There is no charge for registra­
tion for members of the Y’s or of 
Hillel; for non-members a charge 
of $3.00 is made. Registrations are 
due in room 57, Skibo before 
October'1.
Graduate Scholarships 
Information Available
Dr. Richard L. Rubenstein
Seniors and graduate students 
who want information about 
Fullbright, Marshall, Rhodes, or 
Danforth Scholarships for for­
eign study or who wish to apply 
for an award should see Mr. Par- 
shall, AH 260, as soon as pos­
sible.
The deadline for completed 
Fullbright applications is October 
22. Marshall applications must be 
completed and mailed not later 
than October 22, Rhodes by No­
vember 1. Nominations for the 
Danforth Foundation close Octo­
ber 28.
Students may hold a Danforth 
Fellowship concurrently w i t h 
other appointment, such as Ford,
I Fulbright, National Science, 
Rhodes. The fellowships, offered 
by the Danforth Foundation, are 
I open to male college seniors or 
:recent graduates preparing for a 
career of teaching, counseling, or 
1 administrative work at the col­
lege level.
Students Interested in applying 
for one of these scholarships 
should discuss the idea with 
their department head and re­
ceive his endorsement as a prom­
ising applicant before they see 
Mr. Parshall.
New Professors
C. I. T. has announced the ap­
pointment of four faculty mem­
bers as assistant professors for the 
1962-63 academic year. They are 
Kenneth C. Mills, Department of 
Metallurgical Engineering; Har­
old J. Day, Department of Civil 
Engineering; Bernard L. Si*hs, 
Department of Drama; Nicholas J. 
Chaparos, Department of Graphio 
Arts and Painting, Design, and 
Sculpture.
STUDENT & FACULTY FURNITURE
Carpets, Furniture, Mattresses, Etc.
ha *«Depos iptelwrat nlC uDeT *aw»Drat or» 'oewsaM 
UNPAINTED CHESTS, BOOKCASES.
RECORD CABINETS. DESKS. ETC. 
BEDROOMS. DINING ROOMS, LIVING ROOMS 
CARPETS — WAREHOUSED FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERYChase's 5432 wainut st> (Next to shadys*de p° >
Phi Tau Gamma 
Elects Officers 
for Coming Year
[Continued from page 1] 
Congress, and Pi Delta Epsilon, at 
MU-2-4483.
Leslie McKinley, secretary, 
vice-president in charge of Pro­
gram, YWCA, and floor counselor, 
at MU 2-8892.
Audrey Owen, treasurer, mem­
ber of Sigma Kappa Sorority, 
®easurer of American Chemical 
Society, and Society of Women 
Engineers, at MU 2-9103.
!
He Stole
*3,000,000 in Gold
1
— 1
Up front, ahead of a modern filter, only Winston has Filter-Blend.,, 
rich, golden tobaccos specially selected and specially processed 
for full flavor in filter smoking. It’s what's up front that counts!
Pooped ... but must carry on ? Snap tight back and keep going! Take Verv" continuous action alertness capsules. Effective, safe, not habit-forming.
PURE WHITE, : 
MODERN FILTER !
•gf 
¿iJL
PLUSFILTER-BLEND3
UP FRONT
© 1002 R. J. Reynold« Tobaaeo Company. WifliiM-Stfea. W.
SKOOB SEZ
BOOKS COST LESS
- AT -
STUDENT BOOK CENTER
.....
4524 FORBES AVE. 
...................... ...........
. .M,. ,
(FORBES at CRAIG)

---------------------------------------------------

Pag« 4 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, September »6, 1962
>wDta (»palCpos
What Price Technology?
Science and technology have become the moti­
vating and dominating factors of our society. Auto­
mation, atomization, and space exploration are but 
a few of the outgrowths of these influencing forces 
which have assisted in changing many of man’s 
values and standards during the last few years. 
Technology has basically catered to imagined 
human wants as opposed to responding to real 
human needs. Many have numerous aesthetic tele­
phones while millions of others go improperly fed 
each night.
These were some of the pertinent facts with 
which the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., 
President of the University of Notre Dame was 
armed as he went before the 1120 graduates of 
the 1962 class of Massachusetts Institute of Tech­
nology to deliver the commencement address. Yet 
whether you be graduate or freshman, his address 
was so abundant with truth for all students of sci­
ence and technology that I wish to relay much 
of it to our own campus.
“While conceding that science and technology 
have created the highest standards of living yet 
known to mankind, Father Hesburgh cautioned 
that ‘material benefits alone do not make the life 
of man good.’ Science and technology, he pointed 
out, are in themselves neutral, neither good nor 
bad, which represent two great realities — knowl­
edge and power. And he warned the new gradu­
ates against a sole reliance on science and engineer­
ing in their solution to problems.”
“Our future depends, he noted, not on ‘ex- 
clusity of knowledge, but on a deeper unity of all 
knowledge. It is meaningless and futile’ observed 
observed the Notre Dame President, ‘to labor for 
better communications without being interested 
and concerned about what is being communicated, 
to make abundance of food available in one corner 
of the world for storage while countless millions 
go hungry’!”
“Father Hesburgh left the M.I.T. graduates with
HeSteol *o3,e
these four suggestions of ‘enduring values that 
have made human existence worthwhile in every 
age’: Commitment to truth; commitment to what 
is good and excellent; a passion for justice; faith. 
‘Faith is not an easy virtue for scientists and engi­
neers who in their own profession instinctively 
take nothing on faith,’ the priest commented. ‘But 
in the broader world of man’s total voyage through 
time to eternity, faith is not only a gracious com­
panion, but an essential guide’.”
The new graduates of the Massachusetts In­
stitute of Technology and the present students of 
the Carnegie Institute of Technology, many I hope, 
destined to be leaders in this great new world of 
science, did not and should not miss the main point 
of this exceptional commencement address:
“It is not the quality of our science or technol­
ogy that determines whether they are a blessing or 
a curse, but the quality of our scientists and engi­
neers as persons. It is mainly persons who give 
moral quality to things.”
Ideas and quotations in the above are from an 
editorial in the BOSTON ADVERTISER of June 
10, 1962 entitled “What Price Technlogy.”
Henry P. Henderson
Game Encouraging
It was indeed pleasing to watch the Tech-Ohio 
Wesleyan game this past Saturday. That Tech 
lost 7-0 is of no real importance. Rather, it was 
inspiring to watch a team so determined as Tech 
and to be part of a crowd willing to cheer them­
selves to hoarseness in their support. This game 
was indicative of wrhat the few, fortified with hard 
work and determination, can do against a sup­
posedly stronger many. They deserve the con­
gratulations of the entire student body and its 
continued enthusiastic support./ M.N.A.
Advertisers Aid Activities
Editor, The Tartan:
To our new students and up­
perclassmen: Welcome!
You notice that campus activi­
ties, the Tartan, WRCT, the 
Thistle, the Technical, and the 
“C” Book . . . , are patronized 
by many local advertisers. Mer­
chants utilize these media not 
only to increase their sales out 
also to support Tech activities. 
We appreciate their support as 
much as they welcome our pa­
tronage.
When you visit stores in Oak­
land, Squirrel Hill, and Shady- 
side, tell them you heard their 
spot on WRCT or recognized the 
ad in the Tartan.
Do not be ashamed to mention 
the ad; our advertisers welcome 
Tech students.
The School supports less than 
50% of the Tartan and WRCT’s 
expenditures. The sale of more 
local ads can only mean an im­
provement in your publications.
What are you doing to support 
your campus activities?
Best wishes for a successful 
year.
Miron L. Straf 
Business Manager 
Carnegie Tartan
Meet Moral 
Obligations
Editor, The Tartan:
The student body of any school 
functions in its moral sphere on a 
parallel with the individuals who 
comprise it. That is, its standards 
are set by the environment, by 
social pressures, and its obliga­
tions are determined and modified 
by the approval and/or criticism 
of fellow students. It is time that 
we as individuals and as a group 
look at ourselves and the moral 
pattern that has evolved from our 
past attitudes and actions.
I am referring to theft on cam­
pus, and particularly to the steal­
ing, multilating and even tem­
porary illegal “borrowing” of
books from our library, even 
though they may eventually be re­
turned.
Most of us who attended Tech 
last year recall the incident in 
which a senior boy who had taken 
books from the library without 
checking them out was fined over 
$300 and suspended for a year. 
Reactions to this ranged from 
“how unfair can the Administra­
tion be?” to “why isn’t he in jail?”
In my opinion the discipline im­
posed on him was fair and should 
serve as aii example to the rest of 
us. The fine recommended by the 
library was based on the usual 
fine rates and even at that price it 
did not include every book that 
was taken or the etnire length of 
time that the books remained in 
the student’s possession. The sus­
pension passed by the Disciplinary 
Committee was commensurate to 
the offense and should, hopefully, 
encourage us, as well as the boy, 
to think more seriously about our 
moral obligations as students and 
citizens.
The above example is, of course, 
extreme, but it is not without 
meaning. Hoy many of us can re­
call at one time or another when 
we were pressed on an assign­
ment, needed a book, and so “bor­
rowed” it for a day or two with 
the honest intention of returning 
it? And how many of us in the 
same situation have gone to the 
reserve room or the stacks, only 
to find th book we needed miss­
ing? One person has completed his 
assignment, but consequently the 
rest of the class has been depriv­
ed of any use of the book. Most 
of us are so concerned with our 
own achievement that we fail to 
consider our classmates, who are, 
surprisingly enough, just as anxi­
ous to succeed as we are.
Where, then, does the responsi­
bility lie, and what are we to do 
about it? If we look to the faculty, 
we realize that they have put our 
books on reserve and have made 
our assignments. If they find that 
the library owns only one copy, 
it is their duty to request more 
copies, depending on the size of
the class and the amount of time 
that will be devoted to the book. 
If they make or change an assign­
ment only a few days before it is 
due, they must expect the book to 
be in greater demand and hence 
the students to be more tempted to 
take it illegally.
Yet we must also look to our­
selves, for, regardless of tempta­
tion or need, we are the ones who 
take the books and who handicap 
others.
The answer, it seems to me, 
lies in our own conscience and in 
our consideration for others. It is 
up to us to want and to support 
honesty and to condemn dishon­
esty and theft. It is our duty to 
criticize those who will not con­
form to the policies of the school 
and to our own wishes and need 
for a serviceable library. We are 
the ones who must set our moral 
standards. It is our school and it 
is our right to demand cooperation 
from each other. Without our help, 
the Administration faces impos­
sible odds; and if we lack an in­
terest in our welfare and educa­
tion, what need is there for a 
library or even a school?
A Student Library Committee 
has existed for five yars and has 
provided a link between the stu­
dents and the library staff and 
Administration. We asked for 
longer library hours and they 
were given to us. We asked that 
the library be opened on Sundays; 
it is. A suggestion box has been 
installed in the library, and stu­
dents are encouraged to voice 
their opinions and wishes. But 
even without a suggestion box, we 
can begin by adopting a new at­
titude toward ourselves and our 
behavior, and we can encourage 
others to follow. I’m tired of 
waiting for “lost” books to return; 
for a book to become available to 
me, I like the security of knowing 
and though I may wait some time 
that the book will still be there 
when my turn comes to use it. 
Others have given a verbal as­
sent to my concern; now we would 
like to see a positive change 
among the whole student body.
Betsy Shepler
A Candle in the Darkness
By Jeffrey Axelrad
Variations On A Theme
Last week this column discussed one general principle 
—the principle that every person has a right to complete 
freedom except when he infringes on the rights of, or 
does material harm to, other individuals. This is a broad 
statement that many people may not feel applies to every 
day existence. However this is the case.
As an illustration, let us look at the fraternities at 
Tech which will not admit Negroes or Jews (restricted 
fraternities.) Most students feel that all people are equa^ 
and should be treated equally. I agree strongly with this 
belief, but I will admit the right of others to believe differ­
ently. Any private group of persons has a right to join to­
gether in an organization (fraternity) and exclude any 
groups (Negroes or Jews) they feel like excluding. If an 
individual does not like this, he can simply ignore the or­
ganization or protest vocally. It is not taking anything away 
from him that he previously had.
The dictionary definition of liberal includes the follow­
ing description: Befitting a person of free birth; not strict; 
not narrow in opinion or judgment; nor orthodox. The 
groups which today call themselves liberals denounce re­
stricted fraternities—as they have a right to do in a free 
society. These “liberals” go a step further though; they 
are attempting to make their opinions the law of the land, 
as they have already done in several states. Do they fit 
the description of liberal given above? They refuse to 
allow people to privately act contrary to their (the liber­
al’s”) social standards. Is this being broadminded? Is i£.y* 
befitting a person of free birth to try to restrict another’s' 
freedom? Any person who speaks up for individual rights 
is not considered liberal, because he does not conform to 
the “liberal” creed. Today, the only kind of person called 
liberal is one who is an orthodox liberal. This is a contra­
diction in itself.
On the public scene, the issues are changed. Every in­
dividual has the right to be treated equally with every 
other citizen by his government. Any democratic govern­
ment is not a government of the majority — it is a govern­
ment of all its citizens. In the South, and to a certain extent* 
in the North too, Negroes are being denied the right to 
live publicly as equals. They are being denied the right 
to help choose the government which they live under, and 
are not given equal treatment by government institutions 
such as schools. “Separate but equal” schools are not really 
equal for they symbolize and are a material example of 
the repression of the right of all people to live with equal 
dignity. A society has no right to impose its moral code on 
any individual. The South is doing so, and the “liberals” 
are trying to do the same. ^
»‘'CARNEGIE
b.ab.e
CARNEOIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Offices: Skibo, Room 50, Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
Office phone MU. 2-4557; Editor-in-Chief MU. 2-0407; 
Business Manager, MU. 2-9850; Advertising Manager, MU. 2- 
9950; Managing Editor, MA. 1-6610. Published weekly during 
the school year except holidays and examination periods by 
the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pgh. 13, Pa.
Annual Subscription Rate $2.50 
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Represented for national advertising by. National Advertising, Inc.
Editor-in-chief ...................................Martin Ackermarin
Executive Editor ..................................Elaine Grumer
Managing Editor ......................................Fritz Klinke
Business Manager .......................................Miron Straf
News Editor .................................................Joyce HolyAssistant News Editor ...............................Margie Park
Features Editor ....................................B. J. Zimnewicz
Copy Editor ...............................................Anne MoserAdvertising Manager.............................Charles HoFook
Sports Editor ..................................................John Blue
Layout Editor ...............................................Allan Pollock
Secretarial Editor ............................Miriam Gillespie
Circulation Editor ............................Mike Gseenawalt
Editorial Board: Mark Appeibaum, Elaine Grumer, Colin Jones, Margie Park, 
Mary Ferguson, Henry Henderson, B. J. Zimnewicz
Sports Staff: Frank Brady, Tom Tetpack, Jay Lawrence
Secretarial Staff: Jean Cline, Mary Breitenstein, Anne Moser, B. J. Zimnewicz
News Staff: Mark Appeibaum, Doris Bell, Frank Brady, Ellie Denberg, Mary 
Ferkuson, Colin Jones, Sandy Klein, Fay Landau, Joyce Lapidus, Marty Moore, 
Gladys Stalinski, Cyndy Wolfson.
Copy Staff: Nancy Cameron, Jane Samuels, Janet Scharp, Janice Papa, Mike 
McCoy, Fay Landau, Irene Grandberg, Nancie Sutherland
Layout Staff: Jay Lawrence, Tom Douglass, Nancy Cameron, Mike McCoy, 
Barry Shane
Features Staff: Andrea Nether, Irene Grandberg, Jan Engeman, Marion Mulli­
gan, Lynn Pasternak, Sandy Lancaster, Marlene Witman, Kathy O’Dea, Marty 
Sauer, Allan Topol
SAsFKtHEATI pEH,,M Tom Johnson, George Kail

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, September 26, 1962 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Page I
<•’1
Y Announces Activities Program* 
Beginners Bridge, Scuba Foot ’N Fiddle
Beginning Bridge, taught by Mr. 
H. J. Smith, will give Tech stu­
dents an opportunity to learn how 
to bid any play hands of the most 
popular educated card game. It 
will be held in Skibo Room 54, 
Thursdays 6:45 - 8:45 p.m. for 8 
sessions from October 4 through 
December 6 (except November 15 
and 22). Y Members $5.00; non- 
Members $6.50. Registration dead­
line is October 1.
Scuba means Self Contained 
Underwater Breathing Apparatus. 
This class provides a chance for 
Tech students to learn the ex­
citing sport of underwater Scuba 
diving Competent instruction will 
be provided by experienced Scuba 
divers. Students provide their 
mask and snorkel (about $6.50) 
Flippers are desirable but not re­
quired. The Aqua-Lungs are pro­
vided free. The class will meet for 
8 sessions from 7:00 to 10:00 p.m. 
on Tuesday evenings at the Tech 
pool, with theo first hour in Black 
Cat Lounge for theory. It meets 
frofn October 2 to November 27.
Y Members $12.00; non-Members 
$15.00. Registration deadline is 
September 28.
Foot ’N Fiddle is a class in 
square dancing under one of the 
best callers in Pittsburgh, with 
opportunity to move from funda­
mentals to more advanced calls, 
with the hope of entering the 
Pittsburgh Folk Festival next 
spring. It will meet five Sunday 
evenings this semester in the 
Wherrett Room beginning Sep­
tember 30. Y Members $5.00; non- 
Members $5.50. The first night 
those who are not sure they wish 
to continue may attend by paying 
a fee of $1.00 which will be ap­
plied on the total if they continue 
the rest of the sessions. Registra­
tions are now being taken at the
Y Office, Room 57, Skibo.
Classified Ads
PROFESSIONAL TYPING - HA. 1-1456. 
On electric typewriters, reasonable 
rates. Themes, Theses, Manuscripts, 
Term Papers, Applications, etc. Spel­
ling errors corrected.
Slide Rule For Sale. Lynn MU. 2-9580.
Martin Guitar For Sale. Call Russ 
Havlak at MU. 2-9702.
Lost: Brown wallet at C.F.P. mixer
Sat. Oct. 21. If found, contact Susan 
Brownlee MU. 2-8896. Reward.
hotel
WEBSTER HALL
You’ll rate with 
•your date...
, For a meal or just
_____ a snack-pu t Hotel
Webster Hall on your close-to-campus entertain­
ment schedule.
kotet Weta/ M
4415 Fifth Av*nu« Pitt*burgh 13, to. 
T«lephon«: MAyflow*r 1-7700
A member of the Scuba class is shown putting on his equip­
ment under water.
Freshmen Acquianted 
With Tech Activities
The 1962 Activities Fair was 
held in the Skibo Ballroom Sat­
urday morning, September 22. 
Chairman Bob Hawkins, assisted 
by committee members Sue Rose 
and Chuck Ericson, organized the 
event as part of the Freshman 
Orientation program. Its purpose 
was to acquaint incoming fresh­
men with the wide choice of ex­
tra-curricular activities.
Tables, arranged by the Sci­
mitars, rimmed the ballroom al­
lowing the freshmen to see each
group’s display clearly Repre­
sentatives of campus organizations 
were on hand to explain the pur­
poses and activities of their group. 
Also, use of photographs, past is­
sues of publications, recorded per­
formances and live entertainers 
generated enthusiasm. Phamph- 
lets gave detailed sketches of 
each group.
It is hoped that freshmen gain­
ed some insight into the activities 
on campus and will be out in force 
this year.
TONY'S BARBER SHOP
SPECIALIZING IN ALL KINDS OF HAIRCUTS
0i *nGdG0— 1Pp1Hd .nH.1Hb
125 Bouquet St. (Near Corner Forbes and Bouquet)
New Hours: 8 A.M. to 8 P.M. Daily MU. 2-9969
CENTRAL RESTAURANT
NOW UNDER THE NEW MANAGEMENT OF
THEODORE’S, INC. . . .
Specializing in Exotic Food, Shis-ka-bob 
Special Student Discount Meal Tickets 
— also —
We Arrange for Home Parties 
404 S. CRAIG ST. Telephone 682-8733
On Campus
(Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf’,44The Many 
Loves of Dobie Gillis", etc.)
withMaxfihulman
WRITE? YOU’RE WRONG
In the recent furor over the assassination of President McKinley, 
it may have escaped your notice that a nationwide study of the 
writing ability of American college students has just been 
published.
The survey reveals an astonishing fact: that when students 
have completed their freshman year and are no longer required 
to take English, their writing skill progressively declines until 
we come to the fantastic situation where graduating senior» 
actually are poorer writers of English than incoming freshmen!
Many theories have been offered to account for this incredible 
fact. Some say that seniors know less English than freshmen 
because all seniors major in French. This is not true. No more 
than 94 percent of seniors major in French. How about the 
other six percent?
Well sir, of the other six percent, half—or three percent— 
take physics, and it is not hard to understand how these poor 
souls grow rusty in English when all they ever fay is “E equals 
MC squared.”
Of the remaining three percent, two-thirds—or two percent- 
major in whaling, and their English too grows feeble with 
disuse. Whalers, as we all know, do not speak at all except to 
shout, "Thar she blows!” maybe twice a year.
Of the one percent remaining, it cannot be fairly said that 
they are poor writers. The fact is, we don’t know what kind of 
writers they are. Why not? Because they never write. And why 
don’t they ever write? Because this remaining one percent of 
American college students are enrolled at the University of 
Alaska, and never take their mittens off.
(Incidentally, I received quite a surprise upon first visiting 
Alaska two years ago when I was invited to Juneau to crown 
the Queen of the Annual Date Palm Festival. Frankly I ex­
pected to find a surly and morose populace. After all, going 
through life with your mittens on all the time is hardly calcu­
lated to make you merry as a cricket. Not only can’t you write, 
but you miss out on all kinds of other fun things—like three 
card monte, making shadow pictures on the wall, and lint pick­
ing. However, to my astonishment, I discovered Alaskans to 
be a hale and gregarious group, mittens notwithstanding, and 
I soon found out why: because mittens notwithstanding, they 
could still smoke Marlboro Cigarettes, still enjoy that rich 
mellow flavor, that fine, clean Selectrate filter, that truly soft 
soft pack, that truly flip-top flip-top box—and that, friends, 
will make anybody happy, mittens notwithstanding. In fact, 
Alaskans are the happiest people I have ever met in the whole 
United States—except, of course, for the Alaskan vendors of 
Marlboro Cigarettes, who have not been paid in many years— 
indeed, never—because how can anybody dig out coins to pay 
for cigarettes when he is wearing mittens?)
But I digress. What are we going to do about this deplorable 
condition where college students, having completed Freshman 
English, become steadily less proficient in the use of the lan­
guage? The answer is simple. We will make them take Fresh­
man English all through college. In fact, we won’t let them take 
anything else! This solution, besides producing a nation of 
graceful writers, will also solve another harrowing problem: 
where to park on campus. If everybody takes nothing but 
Freshman English, we can tear down all the schools of law, 
medicine, engineering, and whaling, and turn them into parking 
lots. Can’t we? • aw m»>
The makers of Marlboro, who sponsor this column, plead 
guilty to being among those Americans whose writing skill 
is not all it might be. Hoicever, we like to think that as 
tobacconists we know a thing or two. Won't you try us and see if you agree?

---------------------------------------------------

HAH'ú'ñ OC
Cómo*-;
mïHiiŒ
COPYRIGHT © 196!, TH* COCA COLA COMPANY. COCA-COLA ANO COKC ARE PEÍ5ISTEREO TRADEMARKS
Page 6 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, September 26, 1962
deuml deSs Hclmel i* aer
E. Sanford (18) passes to L. Fisher (16) as L. Arendas (35) of Tech pursues the passer.
Tartan Team Fights Tenaciously; 
Tech Courageously MeetsBadOdds
by John Blue
The sign said “Go Tech, Fight 
Tenaciously,” and fight tenacious­
ly they did. Lor 58 minutes, 56 
seconds, Tech’s 18 ironmen with­
stood the three-platooning on-
called. Thé ball was placed on the 
OW 32, but on the next play 
Bechtel was dropped for a loss.
Passing Perks Up
After the halftime festivities, 
highlighted by the precision 
marching of the Tech Pipe corps,
not move the ball, and so they 
kicked to Wesleyan, who returned 
the ball to the Tech 48. Six run­
ning plays later, Wesleyan was
at the Tech 22. On third and
eight, quarterback Sanford over-
, .. „ n. , i shot Demchak, the left end. inslaught of the Battling Bishops , , u + t *-of Ohio Wesleyan. But with 1:06 f . Z“n^ by about a foot, j Wesleyan kicked to Merrill, who
left on the clock, halfback Zipsir, m outrun the Teen (returned to the Tech 39. Twothe smallest man on either squad ^fety man and another great plays later. Bechtel hit D,Appo_
at 140 pounds, took a handoff and t!g f ^ , U? m lonia across the middle with a
set out for the corner as if old , Jec ,n ,, Sanford th; pass which carried to the Bish-
Ned himself was after him. He t J lOW£’ + J* g , ops 43. Hechler drove to the 39,
made it untouched, and the Tar- . ’ and 17 °VSr then Merrill to the 37, and then, . ’ again on their own 17.tan dream of pulling oft an up­
set was shattered. i Near Miss For Photographers
Prior to the game, there was' Using an unbalanced line and . leyan 14. Good gang tackling pre-
a festive, holiday feeling in the a man motion backfield, Tech vented any long gains until Fisher 
atmosphere. Rushees and rushers was al:jle to move on the ground, j took a screen pass and was 
from all twelve of the Tech fra- Featuring the bulling of fullback brought down by the neck by 
ternities were present en masse to f^ick IVierrill and the speed of Smith at the 46. Two plays later 
give the stadium one of the larg- | halfback Terry Hechler, they Demchak took a sideline pass and 
est crowds it had ever seen. There ! moved to the 31 before ^ moved to the Tech 47. It wasn’t
of a defender and the pass was 
incomplete. A series of kicks re­
turned the ball to Tech.
On third and 2 to go for a 
first down, and the ball on the 
Tech 47, Bechtel threw a pass 
intended for D’Appolonia but it 
was intercepted by Faulkner and 
behind giod blocking tightroped 
it into the end zone. The block­
ing was too good, however, and 
a clipping penalty was called on 
an OW lineman at the Tech 36. 
The ball was returned to the Wes­
leyan 49. The Bishops continued 
their march downfield until in­
terrupted by a fumble recovered 
by Tech’s Arendas and Groll at 
the Tech 25. On second and ten, 
Bechtel faded to pass, evaded two 
tacklers, and threw a desperation 
pass to A1 Abies standing on the 
50 yard line. The pass was high 
and wobbly, but was caught by 
Abies, who was immediately 
dropped by a defender who had 
to cover half the length of the 
field to reach him.
Luck Runs Out
Two plays later, Bechtel hit 
Arendas at the OW 42 ».ith a 
low pass on which Arend« made 
a fine catch on. On the next play, 
Bechtel hit Arendas with a mag- 
nificant 32 yard pass which placed 
the ball on the OW 10. Three 
plays produced 4 yards, and on 
fourth down and 4:19 on the 
clock, a field goal attempt by 
Bechtel produced the heartbreak- 
er of the game. Kicking from a 
sharp angle, the ball was long 
enough, and for a moment, every­
one thought it was good. How­
ever, when the official signaled 
“no good”, the spirit of the team 
collapsed. Beginning on their own 
twenty, the visitors went 80 yards 
in six plays to score. Three passes 
carried to the Tech 45, and then 
Sanford caught Jere Crosby be­
hind his defender and hit him 
with a beauty of a pass on the 
Tech 3. Two plays later, Zipsir 
scored.
No Cake Team
It was all over but the shout­
ing. Tech could do nothing in 66 
seconds, and when the gun went 
off, a dejected, tired group cf
Tech playeds left the field. They 
had played their hearts out, only 
to be beaten in the last seconds. 
But they still could hold their 
heads high, for they had proved 
that they were not the “cake” 
team that everyone had expected.
Official Game Statistics
TechOhioW eslevaa
9Total First Downs18
5First Downs Passing12
4First Downs Rushing6
0First Downs Penalties0
68Yards Gained Rushing161
19Passes Attemptem20
7Passes Completed12
1Passes Intercepted By2
102Net Gain Passes140
170Total Yai’ds Gained301
7Punts5
27.0Average Yards Punts34.82Fumbles By3
0Ball Lost On Fumbles2
2Penalties3
10Yards Penalized46
Scores By Quarters
F S TFTotal
Tech0 0 000
OhioWesleyan 0 0 077
VARSITY, I.M. 
ORGANIZE 
TECH SPORTS
Intramural football rosters are 
due in the Physical Education of­
fice in the gym on Wednesday, 
Sept.. 26.
Intramural tennis rosters are 
due in the Physical Education of­
fice on Thursday, Sept. 27.
In order to participate in Intra­
mural athletics, one must have 
either the school insurance plan 
or a comparable accident coverage 
plan. The Carnegie Tech Intra­
mural Department will assume no 
responsibility unless the above is 
carried out.
Intramural football rules re­
quire the wearing of high top 
shoes and ankle wrappings at all 
times while participating in the 
sport.
[Continued on page 7]
the drive bogged down. The kick 
was out of bounds at the Wes-
were a number of blue balloons I Bechtel was caught trying to pass 
down in front of the press box. jback at his own 19 with no re- 
The Tech Scotty dog was there, ! ceivers open. The kick by Hech­ler was taken by Gutnik to the 
Tech 37. Sanford rolled to theas were the five Tech cheerlead­
ers. The pipe corps formed on 
the track and added a touch of jleft- decided to keep, and almost 
the old motherland. disabled two Tartan protogra-
Captain of the Ohio Wesleyan Phers when he was run out of 
team was fullback Bob White, bounds.
Co-captains for Tech were Quar- Lady Luck then re-entered the 
terback Ken Bechtel and End game. Sanford threw a long pass 
Larry Arendas. Tech lost the ! intended for right end Crosby, 
toss, perhaps an omen for the rest but safety man Furman Smith in-
of the day.
Lack Offensive Punch
The gold suited charges of 
Coach Eddie Hirshberg kicked 
off and nailed the receiver at the
tercepted on the 2 yard line, and 
behind good blocking ran it back 
46 yards to the 48. The stands, 
long quiet, came back to life. 
With new spirit, the Tartans
pass on
which defensive interference was
26 yard line. After a serier of pushed the ball to the OW 38 be-
downs featuring shap gang tack!- fore having to kick. Neither team 
ing by Tech, OW kicked. Tech could move the ball, and a series 
could do nothing either, and of exchanges was made. San- 
kicked back to the OW 32. Here } for<* again missed Demchak on 
Wesleyan showed some of its of- a long pass after he had outrun 
fensive might. Three plays netted j the Tech safety.
16 yards before a vicious tackle j With 13 second left in the half,
by Dave D Appolonia dropped ancj the ball in Tech’s possession,the Wesleyan quarterback for an ; Bechte] threw a
11 yard loss. Wesleyan punted, j
but then got the ball back when 
Tech still could muster no of- ; 
fensive spark and relinquished 
the ball 4 plays later. Beginning 
at their own 44. Wesleyan found 
itself at the Tech 10 after 8 run- 1 
ning plays and 2 passes had net- 
ted 46 yards. During this drive, ! 
the Tech defense around the * 
tackles had been particularly vul- | 
nerable.
Lady lauck now entered the 
game. With 4th down and inches 
to go for a first at the 10, Full­
back Geiger fumbled a handoff,
Stefani fell on the 
Tech still could
enough for a first, and the Bisn- 
ops kicked to the 19. A jump 
pass picked up 12 and a first 
down. Good running took the ball 
to the 39, where Bechtel threw 
a beautiful pass to Smith at the 
OW 40, but Smith’s arm was de­
flected by a desperation lunge
pEHy VsARNEW Fight drowsiness HI— VG 
at your brilliant best with rGsyL 
continuous HFEATI HtGsEIGll FH5lKtGlW 
Effective, lH,G4 ITE NHVAE3,Ts2AIRW
COLLEGE MEMBERSHIPS
Now Available in the
Pittsburgh Figure Skating Club
Private Ice Skating Sessions Start 
OCTOBER 16 
at the Civic Arena
yS?? kiT Vv"«hV :Mo Ae,S3?et Gr:MosS,3Mr
BETWEEN CLASSES...get that refreshing new feeling with Coke!
Bottled under authority of 
The Coca-Cola Company by
QUAKER STATE COCA-COLA 
BOTTLING COMPANY 
©AEElVKsRN4 ©GIIlytUHIAH

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, September 26, 1962 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Page 7
WElCOMi STUDENTS
SAVI rOUR PACKS
SHOES SHOES SHOES
WALLYS
ySsfcl — wS-Moet
Women Men
SMART CASUALS HUSH - PUPPIES
LOAFERS LOAFERS
FLATS MASSAGIC
DRESS SHOES FLORSHEIM
U. S. KEDS
3612 FORBES AVE. (Across from Strand Theater)
SKOOB SEZ -
We Are Buying Books 1V011?
STUDENT BOOK CENTER
4524 FORBES AVE. (FORBES at CRAIG)
The Ohio Wesleyan team often found it difficult to find a path through 
Tech's line.
Dave Demchak of Ohio Wesleyan tucks in a pass.
Winning Cross Country Team 
Returns Intact For New Year
Eleven of the first fifteen finishers in last season’s West 
Penn Conference Cross Country Meet are back in action 
this fall.
Carnegie Tech and Grove City each claim four of the 
star returnees. Westminster has three back and one missing 
through graduation.
Geneva has lost all three of its men who finished in the 
top fifteen last fall.
Tech, which won the meet last season, has champion 
Mike Campbell and third-place finisher Andy Niedra back
in action. Also back are Tom4------------------------------------------------——
Bednarz (10) and Paul Flacker 
(12).
However, coach Carl Olson’s
one is a senior — Campbell.
Five are juniors including Wil­
liams, Niedra, Kozlowski, Bednarz, 
and Pollock.
Five runners will be trying to 
beat the sophomore jinx. They are 
Nottleman, Warren, Flacker, Per- 
rine and Shaver.
Fraternity 
Rush Upsets 
I.M. Football
harriers cannot repeat as the Tar­
tans have dropped from the West 
Penn Conference.
Returning for Westminster are 
runner-up Sam Williams, Andy 
Warren (8), and Ed Pollock (14).
Lost to the Titans by graduation 
is Tom Truxell (9).
Back to boost Grove City’s 
hopes are Bill Nottleman (5),
Dave Kozlowski (6), Chuck Per- 
rine (13), and Jim Shaver (15).
Missing from the Geneva team 
will be Mel Vos (4) and Jim Wil­
son (7) through graduation and 
Andy White (11) who is sitting
out this campaign. „ „„r , - i Because of the closeness of theWaynesburg did not place any ; date of fraternity pledging to the 
men in the top^15 last season and I start of the I. M. Touch Foot­
ball season, there will be a slight 
modification in the organization 
of leagues. In the past, all ros­
ters were due by a certain date 
and the leagues drawn up on the 
basis of the rosters submitted. 
This year, however, we are al­
lowing for the adding and drop­
ping of teams after the leagues 1 
have been formed without any 
financial penalty.
This will affect two
Duquesne and St. Francis did not 
compete in the conference meet.
Competition — for both team 
and individual honors — appears 
to be plenty tough this season.
Each team meets every oppo­
nent for a full six-meet conference 
dual slate. Tech wins will not 
count for the Tartan; however, 
teams that beat the Pittsburgh 
club will be credited with two 
points.
Last season Tech and Westmin­
ster tied for the duel meet crown
major
w’th 5-1 records. Westminster i 4 
beat Tech, but lost to Geneva.
Four of the last season’s top
four runners are back seyen of iPosilive Identification? the top ten, and 11 of the 1op 15. ? 1 ?
Of the eleven returning only ! \ For Slide Rules X
tin ravin
S. GREEN
.tt •HEFNGl CtGFEsTIAFHtty bA2G—
EXPERT WATCH AND 
JEWELRY REPAIRS 
123 Oakland Ave. MU. 1-6104
Jewelry, Lighters, and ? 
fountan pens engraved X
35c — $1 ?
Inquire X
C.I.T. Bookstore cashier ?
Ts rail ?
MU. 1-8487 from 9-12 p.m. ^
groups: freshmen and fraternity 
teams. Freshmen who organize a 
team and then join a fraternity 
will be allowed to withdraw 
from that team and play for their 
fraternity. Also, fraternities will 
be allowed to add men to their 
rosters and add additional teams 
after the freshmen have pledged.
When the leagues are made up, 
they will be balanced on the ba­
sis of the known strength of each 
existing organization. Freshmen 
teams and fraternity “B” and “C” 
will be seeded at the bottoms of 
the leagues. All rosters are due 
in the Intramural office by 4:30 
p.m. today, September 26, 1962, 
but final changes must be made 
by MONDAY night, October 2, 
1962, by notifying A1 Kullen at 
MU 1-6550 before 11:00 p.m.
with Coach Mel Cratsley in the 
dressing room in the gym at 4:00 
p.m., September 27. Upperclass­
men will meet in the dressing 
room of the gym at 4:00 p.m., 
September 28.
Organizational meeting for 
Men’s Varsity Swimming and 
Diving Team will be held Mon­
day, October 1st, at 4:45 p.m. in
the men’s locker room. All in­
terested please be present — 
new and old members. No ex­
perience necessary.
Any commuters interested in 
organizing teams this year, add 
your name to the list in the In­
tramural office indicating the 
sports that you wish to partici­
pate in.
TEAMS SEEK 
NEW MEMBERS
[Continued from page 6] 
Candidates for the Tech Varsity 
Cross Country Team will meet 
with Coach Carl Olson in the 
dressing room beneath Donner. 
Freshmen are eligible for the 
team and are urged to attend 
the meeting if they are interested 
in becoming a member of the 
team.
Freshmen candidates for the 
Varsity Basketball team will meet
When studderr
Porter
Hall100
bNKsl—Hy
1 M ph4* :00, 
9:30.
First of the Fall Series 
of the Film Arts Society
IN THE COLLEGEPa.e0 ah»e03»©
RULES AND PRIZES TO BE AWARDED 
WILL BE ANNOUNCED SHORTLY

---------------------------------------------------

FREE 
BOOK UN­
COVERS!
concerto for m u tareyeorg-eshmfníq
with oivlifstru und éiàir.
horror!
ARCH OBOLEF
THE GARLAKD TOUCH
Pagre f — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, September 26, 1963
WRCT
New programs and format starts 
Monday, October 1st
900 KILOCYCLES
Campus Crowd Pleasers From
BOOKS LOVE ’EM... 
AND MOST IMPORTANT, 
THEY’RE ABSOLUTELY 
GRATIS. AND, PICK UP ON 
OUR CAMPUS CROWD- 
PLEASING ALBUMS. 
GRATIS, THEY’RE NOT. 
GRATIFYING, THEY ARE!
THE NATION’S TOP TRIO SINGS 
T FOR THE FIRST TIME WITH 
FULL ORCHESTRAL AND CHORAL 
BACKING. (S) T-1747^**^
HeStol*3 3S*l,HWITH AN EXCITING, NEW TOUCH
of^CtERcTt°. ARRANGEmInTS OF GREAT STANDARDS (S)T-175SSSBIE
FAVORITE SONGS OF THE OLD 
WEST WITH MODERN BIG BAND 
BACKING. (S)T-175L_.FAVORITE JAZZ THEMES WITH 
A FOUR FRESHMAN FLAVOR.
(S)T-1753
A ‘ LETTER-PERFECT’’ 
PERFORMANCE. (SÌT-1761
'amone
INSPIRED BY VIC DAMONE’S 
SWINGING NEW TV SHOW! 
(S;T-I744HER LATEST SENSATION SINCE 
THE BEST-SELLING “JUDY AT 
CARNEGIE HALL" (S)W-1710
