1fhe Tartan
FEATURES...........Page 11
Need tips on financial aid? Or need to 
remove gum from your sweater?
Volume 82, Issue 3 Carnegie Mellon University September 15,1987Will the Giants repeat? Our guess is yes, 
the NFL preview tells all
Wean. Other Buildings. Flooded
Storm, Excavation Cause Road Collapse
By NATALIE CAPONE
FEATEU RTESS.APTaA
The combination of a water main break 
and a heavy rainstorm meant disaster for the 
Wean Hall and Bureau of Mines area of 
campus on Tuesday, September 8.
A water pipe near the fifth floor entrance 
of Wean Hall broke around 3 am. said Neal 
Binstock, Assistant Director of Facilities 
and Administration, causing some water to 
burst above ground and rush down the stairs 
to the Wean Hall patio. Still more water 
flooded parts of Wean Hall and the steam 
tunnels.
At the same time, an extreme and sudden 
downpour—approximately one and a half 
inches in 90 minutes—proved to be more 
than the storm sewers on campus could 
handle. The E&S Library and Robotics 
Institute, both on the fourth floor of Wean 
Hall, as well as the print shops on Doherty 
Hall D-Level, Hamerschlag Hall D-Level, 
and the Morewood Gardens Child Care 
Center were flooded.
“If there had been anyone 
below the road, there is no 
doubt in my mind that they 
would have been killed."
—Neal Binstock
Physical Plant was able to “respond 
quickly, within an hour,” said Binstock, by 
first turning off all domestic water to Wean 
Hall. This included bathrooms and water 
fountains. Their next move was to shut off 
the water supply for the chillers in Hamer­
schlag, Doherty, Scaife, and Wean, which 
meant that all air conditioners and comput­
ers were turned off. “We asked that the 
computers power down gracefully before
photo by Suvro Datta
This used to be the Bureau of Mines road behind Wean Hall. More photos on page 3.
they crashed” due to the shutdown of the 
chillers, said Binstock.
By 7:30 am the crews were able to begin 
searching for the break in the pipe, which they 
located in the late morning. “We were aware of 
a problem with the pipe, but did not realize that 
it was this significant,” explained Binstock. 
“Most lines on this campus are old - between 
20 and 40 years of age, and we’re replacing 
them over time. The water main that broke is 
at least 15-20 years old.” The pipes in the 
Bureau of Mines, which are even older, are 
currently being replaced.
The broken water main was patched and 
repaired by 3 pm. “That’s a twelve-hour turn­
around time,” Binstock said proudly. “Physi­
cal Plant was able to pull together very 
quickly.” The domestic water supply and the 
supply in the chillers was turned on late after­
noon on Tuesday.
Binstock said that the chance of the water 
main breaking again is “possible but not prob­
able. We’re investigating if the pipes 
should be replaced whey we can afford the 
time, but the repair job should be satisfac­
tory.”
The damage resulting from the water 
main break and the flooding is still being 
assessed. Hardest hit were the Robotics 
Institute and the E&S Library.
“Water collected in lakes in some 
places,” said Whitney Satterfield, Office 
Manager of the Robotics Institute. Two 
days after the flooding, wastebaskets and 
chairs were still piled on top of the desks to 
allow the floor to dry. “They worked all day 
Tuesday with vacuums to suck up the 
water, and have placed fans throughout the 
office to help the water to evaporate more 
quickly,” said Satterfield. She estimated 
that between 800 and 1000 gallons of water 
were collected. “The smell [of the disinfec­
tant sprayed to prevent mildew from col- 
continued on page 3
Andrew-Plus Set to Replace
TOPS-C First 
DEC-20 Retired
By JEFF HAVRILLA
FEATEU RTESSaA PTaA
This past summer, TOPS-C became the first 
DECSYSTEM-20 mainframe computer on 
campus to be permanently decommissioned. It 
had been in service for over nine years. This 
was done as part of the on-going effort to phase 
out all of CamegieMellon's TOPS-20 systems 
and to make way for the Andrew-Plus com­
puter environment.
As part of this strategy, the gradual removal 
of TOPS is projected to be accomplished by 
the end of 1988. The Andrew-Plus environ­
ment is expected to be fully operational then. 
The Andrew-Plus environment is scheduled to 
integrate most of the components of the com­
puter services available on campus, including 
Computing Services, the libraries. Adminis­
trative Services, and the Pittsburgh Supercom­
puting Center.
The Andrew-Plus environment will also sup­
port a wide variety of personal computing 
machines including IBM PCs and Apple 
Macintoshes. Work is being done to adapt the 
various protocols (signal processing codes) 
that are unique to each type of personal com­
puter into the Andrew-Plus environment. 
Thus it would be possible for students to use 
the network via their own personal computer 
from their own rooms.
William Arms, Vice-President of Academic 
Services, gave additional reasons for the 
TOPS system’s removal. “The TOPS main­
frame computers are old machines, subject to 
repeated mechanical breakdowns. This con­
tributed greatly to their unreliability. Their age 
also makes them very difficult to repair when 
they do break down. Added to this is the fact 
that technicians to maintain the system are be­
coming more and more scarce, due to their 
natural gravitation towards newer and more 
dynamic systems. What we plan to do is take
each TOPS machine out of the network, one at
continued on page 4
Education Secretary Proposes New Rules For 
•Accreditation; Schools Must Measure Quality
By ERIC W. LEULIETTE
FEATEU geePeTEUT 1a.e NdPTtA 
Education Secretary William J. Bennett re­
leased regulations last week which will re­
quire Carnegie Mellon University and 9,000 
other institutions to measure how much stu­
dents are learning or face a loss of accredita­
tion and federal support.
The proposed rules are a response to prob­
lems the Reagan Administration has with 
profit-making trade schools across the nation. 
Some mismanage funds, accept students they 
know can’t complete the courses, or mislead 
students about their success with job place­
ment. These schools receive over 20 percent of 
federal grant money for low-income students. 
^ The rules, published in September 8’s Fed­
eral Register, also affect 3,300 traditional col­
leges and universities.
Dr. H. J. Hoffer, dean of the Graduate School 
of Business at Pitt, echos Secretary Bennett’s 
thoughts on accreditation. Hoffer has written 
an essay proposing that accreditation measure 
improvement in students’ knowledge, rather 
than just measure the school’s ability to teach
students.
In Winter 1987’s Educational Record, Hof­
fer wrote, “Institutions that enroll ‘good’ stu­
dents actually may be making less improve­
ment in the quality of those students than ones 
enrolling substantially lower quality stu­
dents.” Hoffer proposed measuring students’ 
skills and knowledge before enrolling and 
after graduation to show if a col lege is doing its 
job. Bennett’s rules would make Hoffer’s 
suggestion national policy.
Though the federal government does not 
accredit institutions, it does have the legal 
authority to recognize accrediting agencies. 
The new rules would allow the government to 
drop an accrediting agency from its list if the 
agency does not agree with the Admin­
istration's idea of quality education. Accredi­
tation is generally a school’s ticket to federal 
assistance, including financial aid for stu­
dents.
In an interview with the Tartan. Hoffer 
stressed that accreditation can be a sensitive 
topic. A handful of colleges have sued agen-
continued on page 5
Hundreds enjoyed the food and drink provided by the Enthusiasm Committee of 
Student Senate at last Saturday's Tartan football opener. Senate handed out balloons 
and pom-poms to all to help cheer on the Tartans. After the Tailgate Party, the 
Tartans battled the Allegheny Gators to a 7-7 tie. See Sports for a complete story on 
the game.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—The Tartan—September 15,1987
/1JT4IMHk»f JViKT) Ul
«KMNWMI/ VHA v*r>
Shultz Requests $270 
Million for Contras
WASHINGTON — Secretary of State 
George P. Shultz detailed the keagan Admin­
istration’s plan for new aid to the contras 
Thursday before the Senate Foreign Relations 
Committee. The Administration is requesting 
$270 million for the next 18 months to fund the 
rebels past the end of Reagan’s presidency.
Congressional leaders predicted that the 
proposal would be defeated. Several Demo­
crats attacked the move, saying it could dam­
age peace negotiations in Central America.
Shultz, on the other hand, contended that the 
peace negotiations will not succeed unless the 
United States continues to support the contras 
in their attacks against the Nicaraguan govern­
ment.
The Administration was said to have ex­
pected the negative reaction to the proposal. 
Congressional sources indicated that the $270 
million requested is an inflated figure, to be 
reduced in negotiations with Congress.
Correction:
On September 9, The Tartan incor­
rectly reported that the Phi Kappa Theta
fraternity was fined for distributing a 
rush calendar which did not comply 
with the rules of dry rush. Phi Kappa 
Theta did distribute the calendar, but 
they were not fined.
East German Leader 
Visits West Germany
WIEBELSKIRCHEN, West Germany — 
Returning to his hometown in the Saar Valley 
for the first time since 1949, East German 
leader Erich Honecker visited his sister and the 
g-aves of his parents.
"he tour contrasted Honecker’s official vis­
its to Bonn and the Rhine, which were accom- 
pa lied by pomp and formality. The Saar Val­
le) , once a center of mining and steel produc­
tion, has declined economically.
Honecker, 75, was greeted in West Germany 
by thin crowds, with many spectators saying 
they came out of curiosity, rather than to see 
history. The visit is the first from an East 
German leader to West Germany.
While in the city of Trier, Honecker visited 
Marx’s house and wrote in a guest book of his 
sense of pride that Marx’s ideas had been 
“successfully developed” in East Germany.
A group of protesters nearby held a banner 
showing Marx asking “Erich, what have you 
turned me into?”
Pope Begins U.S. Visit 
With Tour of the South
MIAMI — Pope John Paul II started his tour 
of the United States and Canada Thursday 
with a reception at Miami International Air­
port. He was greeted by President Reagan and 
his wife Nancy who arrived at the airport
minutes before the Pope’s plane. Shepherd I, 
touched down.
After briefs remarks by the President, John 
Paul was taken to one of the city’s poorest 
areas where he spoke in Spanish to refugees 
from Haiti.
Later the Pope met with Jewish leaders, 
many of whom are upset with his meeting with 
Austrian President Kurt Waldheim in June.
After several stops in Florida Friday, the 
pope flew to South Carolina to meet with 
Protestant leaders and to hold an ecumenical 
service. The pope spent Saturday in New Or­
leans, where he spoke from the Superdome.
This is the pope’s second trip to the United 
States. His first, in 1979, toured the East and 
the Middle West. This visit will tour the South, 
the Southwest, California, and Canada over 10 
days.
Hispanic Population 
Growing Rapidly
WASHINGTON — The Census Bureau 
reported Thursday that the Hispanic popula­
tion grew five times faster than the rest of the 
population. Since 1980 the Hispanic popula­
tion in this country increased by 30 percent.
Census officials mentioned several reasons 
for the rapid growth. A high birth rate and a 
steady stream of migration accounted for most 
of the increase. The Bureau concluded that 
illegal aliens accounted for a quarter of the 
growth.
The Hispanic population now totals 18.8 
million, which on the whole is younger than 
the rest of the nation.
While most Hispanics are of Mexican or 
Puerto Rican origin, the fastest growing sub­
group consists of people from Central or 
South American origin. It has grown 40 per­
cent in the last five years.
Reagan to Lead Nation* 
In Pledge of Allegiance
WASHINGTON — President Reagan plans 
to lead the nation in the Pledge of Allegiance 
from the U.S. Capitol steps tomorrow. .
The exact timing of this event is still uncer­
tain, but it i s scheduled to take place sometime 
between 1:30 and 2 p.m. £
The event is part of the celebration of the 
Constitution's bicentennial. Constitution Day 
is Sept. 17.
Trial Set for School 
Board President
PITTSBURGH — Magistrate Edward 
Borkowski ruled Tuesday that City School 
Board President Jake Milliones risked the ( 
well-being of others in an Aug. 27 incident. 
The case will now go to trial.
Dr. Milliones was arrested after he allegedly 
interfered with a drug bust. Officers testified 
that Milliones’ van ran over a policeman’s 
foot.
The incident prompted some school board 
members to ask that he resign. Since the arrest 
other criticisms of Milliones have surfaced.
News Briefs appear courtesy 
of the Associated Press
The TI-74 offers BAS/C' programming with a II* BAS/C’ keyword set There's HKConstant (irvi suKoutim. capübtkty for advanced programming flexibdity.
T1 programmable calculators 
have all the right functions and 
enough extra features to satisfy 
your thirst for power.
To .ill yFEA science and engineering 
maj< >rs nns.itishod with mere calculate >rs. 
T1 ha* good news. Ymr power tix>ls are
here. TheTI-95 PROCALL','< is 
keystroke programmable and the TI-74 
BAS1CALC1'' is BASIC language 
pn>grammahle. Each has a hill range of 
scientific,* mathematical and statistical 
functions, and plenty of power extras.
Both have optional equipment such 
as Solid State St4t\vare " modules,
including math, statistics and 
chemical engineering, and a module 
with an additional 8K Constant 
Memory. Additional power accessories 
include a separate portable printer and 
cassette interface.
St) if you’re into power, kx>k for the 
display in your Kx>kstore for a demon-
stration of our power tools. They build 
such a strong case for themselves, 
our competition doesn’t know what 
to make tif them. ¦.
TURS.P Instruments
The TI-95 offers powerful 7200-step keystroke programming iirul features our exclusive RmtT Wiruiim.’S.''* which provide i*as> access lit the functions and flexible file muruigi’nwni system.

---------------------------------------------------

September 15,1987—The Tartan—Page 3
. E&S Library Flooded During Storm
continued from page 1
lecting] is overwhelming,” said another Ro­
botics employee.
“We were flooded, but I don’t think as a 
result of the water main break,” said Pat Fitz­
gerald, Head of the Engineering and Science 
Library. “Water was coming off the roof and 
the side of the building, and it was more than 
the gutter under the skylights could handle. 
There were two inches of water on the floor 
when I came in at 6:30 am,” she said.
Only a section of journals and periodicals in 
the E&S Library were affected, but the dam­
age was considerable. Approximately 1500 
bond-paper journals were wet or damp, “sev­
eral hundred of which will need to be rebound 
at $8-$ 10 each,” Fitzgerald estimated. But the 
411 clay-coated paper journals that got wet are 
another story. “The paper sticks together in 
one hunk,” the librarian explained, “and had to 
be frozen to halt the damage.” She will now 
have to decide whether to replace the journals 
(at anywhere between $50-$ 100 each) if pos­
sible, or freeze-dry them to carefully extract 
the water from the pages. “This is a moderately 
expensive process.”
A portion of the carpet in the library was 
soaked as well, and “eight rows of brand new 
shelves” got wet. “It looks like a disaster,” 
said Fitzgerald, “but the study space wasn’t 
affected. Although it was noisy and wet, we 
stayed in operation, opening on time at 8 am on
photo by Suvro Datta
Combined with the excavation for the new Physical Plant buiding, a September 8 storm 
that dumped 1 and a half inches of water in 90 minutes caused the Bureau of Mines road 
to collapse behind Wean Hall. This picture, taken from where the road should be, shows 
how the bank subsided. The plastic in the foreground was placed by Pysical Plant to keep 
the bank from subsiding further.
photo by Suvro Datta
Approximately 1900 E&S Library journals and periodicals such as these were either wet 
or damp from a September 8 storm that flooded a portion of Wean Hall. 1500 bond-paper 
journals were affected and 411 clay-coated paper journals were affected. Each book will 
cost from $8 to $100 to replace or repair.
Tuesday. There’s just a portion of space that 
you can’t use, and we’ve got plastic hanging.” 
The skylights have been recaulked since the 
heavy rains.
Also as a result of the September 8 storm, the
Bureau of Mines road behind Wean and
Hamerschlag Halls collapsed. The combina­
tion of excavation being done for the construc­
tion of the Physical Plant building and a 
mudslide caused the road to cave in around 
6:30 am. “If there had been anyone below the 
road, there is no doubt in my mind that they 
would have been killed,” said Binstock. The 
area was cleaned up, and “a special plastic has 
been placed over the weak parts so that water 
will run down the hillside and prevent a land­
slide.”
Construction crews began the four week 
process of rebuilding the road on Friday, but 
until it is repaired, the road will be closed to 
both vehicle and pedestrian traffic. Vehicles 
may still enter from Forbes Avenue for park­
ing in the Bureau of Mines and for deliveries 
to the buildings in the complex. Barricades 
have been installed, preventing access to the 
road just past Scaife Hall on the Frew Street 
side. In an open memo to the campus,Binstock 
asked that people “stay behind these barriers 
and away from the repair work area in general, 
to minimize safety problems and to allow the 
work to proceed as rapidly as possible.”
Pika to Sponsor 
Survival Game
By ANDY WEBER
FEATEU RTESS.APTaA 
In what will pit student aganst student, 
maybe even friend against friend, a cam­
pus wide elimination game will take 
place the week of September 21.
The game is being sponsored by the 
pledges of the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity 
to fund their pledge project. Mark Wag­
ner, head coordinator of the game, said 
that his pledge class chose the game be­
cause, "We wanted something that 
would involve the campus community 
and be fun in the process.”
Registration for the game will be this 
Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday in 
front of Doherty Hall. The cost of play­
ing is $5, which entitles a participant to 
a plastic dart gun and three rubber- 
tipped darts. The following week each 
participant will receive a card with a 
fellow participant’s name, phone num­
ber, and address that serve as his “tar­
get” If a person eliminates his target, he 
then is assigned to eliminate the person 
his target was assigned. Subsequently 
the last person left at the end of the game 
will receive $100. Pledge Dan Hushon 
estimates the game will take a week and 
a half to reach its completion.
Despite the $100 prize and the some­
what violent pretext of the game, Wag­
ner does not believe the game will have 
a cutthroat atmosphere: on the other 
hand, he feels that the game will serv e as 
a recreational outlet. “I believe that 
friends and groups of people looking to 
have fun will play,” said Wagner, who 
has previously played the game on a 
large scale. Hushon said, “The game is 
a definite release of aggression.”
The pledges had no problem getting 
the approval of Student Affairs for the 
game because it has been played previ­
ous years on campus. The only objec­
tion Student Affairs had was with the 
title. Originally the pledges wanted to 
call the game Assassin, but were re­
quired to change it to Eliminator.
Wagner was firm in his belief that 
those not participating in the game will 
not be bothered by it. To prevent the 
disruption of classes, he noted that aca­
demic buildings were strictly off limits 
as far as the game was concerned.
In anticipation of a large turnout, the 
pledges have purchased over 300 plastic 
dart guns. Once the game has started, 
they will be posting daily charts of con­
firmed kills.
Savs Senate Should “Do More Homework”Walter Addresses Senate
% By KEVIN POECKING
FEATEU RTESS.APTaA 
Dean of Student Affairs, Brad Walter, ad­
dressed the Student Senate last week about 
misconceptions concerning an administrator 
not attending meetings of Senate. Walter 
explained that the objective for not going to 
every meeting would be to improve corre­
spondence from all branches of administration
* to Senate rather than the Student Affairs office 
only.
In the future, instead of having Walter or 
Dean Lois Cox (also of Student Affairs) attend 
every meeting, an administrator or director of 
a particular department could be present to 
respond or listen to Senate. The administrator 
present would be able to respond to more 
specific concerns.
Senator Celeste Clark pointed out that many 
times a Senator may dec Je to make a motion 
and need an administrator present to help with 
factual information.
Walter claimed that was encouraging Sena­
tors to “do more homework” so that someone 
could be present to help with more specific 
issues. When asked how many meetings an 
administrator is expected to be at, Walter said 
that there should be about one every week.
Also during the meeting. Funding and Rec­
ognition Chairman, Tamal Mukherjee, made a 
motion to allocate two thousand dollars to the 
Students Alumni Relations Committee 
(SARC) to help fund Homecoming. Unlike 
previous years, last year everything was paid 
for by the Alumni Office. The motion passed 
unanimously.
ATTENTION:
ARNEGIE MELLON 
UNDERGRADUATES 
SEEKING ON-CAMPUS JOBS
Many on- campus job opportunities are now available. 
Interested students should contact the Financial Aid Of­
fice at ext. 2086 and make an appointment to see Wendy 
Sherman.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—The Tartan—September 15,1987
TOPS-C Trashed
continued from page 1
a time, so we can make a more gradual 
shift towards the newer networks. We 
hope that as new services are introduced 
in the Andrew-Plus environment, more 
and more users will take advantage of 
Andrew, allowing the load on TOPS to 
slacken to the point that it can be finally 
be taken completely out of the loop by 
December of 1988.”
Arms also stated that the TOPS-C ma­
chine itself can now be used for parts for 
the other five computers.
TOPS-C user accounts were distrib­
uted between the remaining TOPS 
computers, subject to the following 
guidelines: Faculty, staff, and graduate 
students were placed on 1) TOPS-B if 
they were part of the Chemical, Electri­
cal, or Metallurgical Engineering de­
partments, including the Engineering 
Design Research Center; or 2) TOPS-D 
if in Mechanical or Civil Engineering, 
EPP departments, or CIT.
Undergraduate accounts were trans­
ferred from TOPS-C to TOPS-B if their 
last name began with the letters A 
through H , or T through Z, while all 
others were dumped on TOPS-D. Only 
users with valid summer accounts were 
transferred directly to the system. Inac­
tive accounts were migrated to on offline 
status. Students who wish to reactivate 
old accounts can do so free of charge 
until the end of September at the UCC.
Arms added, “We are in an age of not 
only technological change but rapidly 
changing ideas as well. Camegie Mellon 
continued on page 5
Crime and Incident Report: 9/4 to 9/11a g
9/4 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF 12:16 pm 
Student parked car in fraternity garage drive­
way. When returned, noticed a metal sawhorse 
wedged between right front fender and 
dumpster, 2 inch indentation in fender, foot­
prints on hood, and “Do not park in front of my 
garage or your car is gone” on windshield.
9/5 DISORDERLY CONDUCT 2:08 am 
An alumnus from ATO was noticed urinating 
against tree next to ATO patio.
9/5 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF 3:27 am 
CMU alumnus parked caron Morewood Lane, 
left front tire punctured with a sharp object.
9/5 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF 12:15 pm 
Unknown persons smashed rear window out 
of blue, 1980, Datsun parked on M M Street.
9/4 UNAUTHORIZED PERSON 6:48 pm 
White male, 6' 2", thin, shoulder length hair, 
wearing bluejeans and white T shirt, attempted
to enter Mudge House without CMU ID. 
Refused admittance. Snuck into C tower door 
when residents exited. Escorted off campus.
9/6 THEFT 2:00 am Unknown person re­
moved mouse from Margaret Morrison Store­
front cluster. No value set.
9/5 DISORDERLY CONDUCT 11:55 pm 
Fight between 2 non-CMU students at Pika 
House. Escorted off campus. Advised not to 
return.
9/6 POWER OUTAGE 6:52 am Whole 
BoM complex affected, restored at 11:00 am.
9/8 SPECIAL 3:20 pm Unknown persons 
attempted to remove passenger side tire of 
student’s parked car at comer of Devonshire 
and Center. Perpetrators left coat, jack, and lug 
nut.
9/9 VEHICLE ACCIDENT 6:28 pm Hit 
and run accident on Morewood Lane behind
Sigma Nu. Damaged left front fender and left 
front tire.
9/10 THEFT 3:10 pm Person entered office 
in Mellon Institute, took wallet, $100. Wallet 
found in stairwell.
9/11 ARREST 2:45 am Non-CMU person 
banging and swearing at Mudge House door. 
Slurred speech, alcohol on breath. Arrested foiw », 
public drunkenness.
9/10 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF 11:24 pm 
Persons vandalized public microwave next to 
155 Baker Hall, broke light bulb and bracket
9/10 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF 10:22 pm 
Unknown persons broke glass on vending 
machine in Morewood Garden breezeway.
9/11 DISORDERLY CONDUCT 7:04 pm 
DU brothers rolling beer kegs down fraternity | 
driveway, Security talked to them, brothers 
said they wouldn’t do it again.
Student Union Gets Office in Forbes Gallery
By DRUE MILLER
FEATEU iAtdpsTPtU oEUEnaA
After two years of using public spaces for 
work on their publication, members of The 
Student Union will soon have an office. Lo­
cated in the basement of Forbes Gallery, the 
two rooms will be completed and ready for 
occupancy “in about a month,” says Rollie 
Wesen, one of The Union’s overseers.
According to Wesen, members of The Union 
had asked Student Senate about the space last 
year after Senate told them there was no avail­
able space on campus. Lois Cox, Assistant 
Dean of Student Affairs, was “hesitant about 
Forbes Gallery” until the new Gallery coordi­
nators, seniors Carolyn Wilkinson and Lind­
sey Nicholson, told her they wanted to have 
The Union in their basement.
Wesen explained the reasons for wanting an 
office were mostly organizational: layout took 
place in the design studios, and editing often 
meant “taking over a computer room” for 
nearly a day. But this year, studio space for 
designers is especially cramped, and as al­
ways, computer space is in great demand. An 
office will help alleviate some of the crunch. 
Members also see it as a means of establishing 
the “permanence of The Student Union.”
So far, all they have is the space: Senate’s 
Funding and Recognition Committee still has 
to re-work The Union’s budget for additional 
expenses (such as locks, phones, and layout 
tables—none of which are in place yet). One of 
the rooms needs to be cleaned out. No one has 
keys yet. Much still needs to be done.
Once occupied, the office will be used for
layout and editing, although Wesen hopes to 
eventually get a Macintosh and LaserWriter in 
order to use the office for more of the paper’s 
production.
As for the paper itself, Wesen sees little 
change in store. The front page will continue to 
be void of text, as was the first issue last week, 
although content will vary. The Union still 
shys away from a formal power structure, 
having no established editorial positions and 
instead leaving editing and layout to “whoever 
has available time that week.” Still, there are 3 
coordinator-types who “always know what’s 
going on with the paper.”
Wesen hopes the office will “facilitate better 
organization, and in the end, a better paper.” 
Ultimately, Wesen sees the office as a major 
step towards this goal.
%
Two great ways to emise through the semester.
The hand on the left is poised on what could be the most essential part 
of your education.
A Macintosh" computer.
And the hand on the right is gripping pure, simple, unadulter­
ated fun.
A Honda Scooter. One we’re giving away.
All you have to do for a chance to drive it away is visit your campus 
computer center and fill out an entry form. While you’re there, take a 
Macintosh for a test drive.
Because Macintosh can help you write term papers, categorize 
elements of the periodic table, plot the rise and fall of pork-belly 
prices, compile computer code, and talk to other computers.
.And the first 250 people on campus who get behind a mouse, so 
to speak, will receive a free Apple* memo board.
So head over to your campus computer center today. And ask 
about our Student Financing Program.*
Who knows? eEg may soon find yourself cruising a little farther 
than you expected.
A Test drive a Macintosh. You may ride away on a Honda Scooter.
Enter September 1 - October 16
HONDA
CMU Computer Store
Certain restrictions apply; vis« \ixir campus computer center kx compiete promotional details One free Ht xxJa Elite'“ 50 So xxer will be aw arded per participating school; only registered students and faculty are eligible to win. Odds of winning vary depending 
on size of school and number of amtest entrants No purchase necessary £198“ Apple Computer. Inc Apple and the Apple logt; are registered trademarks of Apple Gmputer, Inc. Macintosh is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc Elite is a trademark of Honda
*)
fc
I
l
%

---------------------------------------------------

September 15,1987—The Tartan—Page 5 |
Universities Would Measure 
Improvements in Students
continued from page 1
cies after losing accreditation. Now that the 
accrediting process could control a 
university’s lifeblood, the controversy over 
how to accredit an institution may increase.
When asked about accreditation, Dean 
James C. Williams of CIT said “there’s no 
right way to do it.” Traditionally, agencies 
looked at statistics when reviewing a de­
partment: the number of library books, the 
number of PhDs teaching, the number of 
courses offered, etc. The staff of CIT has 
begun collecting this sort of data for its 
accreditation, scheduled for a year from 
now. Williams calls the process a product of 
“the audit mentality of our society.”
The new regulations, on the other hand, 
call for measuring quality, not quantity. The 
rules don’t offer any suggestions about 
what methods should be used, but officials 
at the Department of Education mentioned 
standardized tests, student projects, and 
performance of graduates on state-man­
dated certification tests.
The rules could create disagreements over 
who decides what is important for students 
to learn. Williams pointed out that a mem­
ber of an accrediting team for engineering 
programs is more likely to be a professional 
engineer than a professor. At present, this is 
only natural because the motivation for
obtaining accreditation is that it nearly 
guarantees that CIT graduates can get pro­
fessional licenses. Professionals and pro­
fessors, however, have different ideas 
about what should be taught.
After acknowledging that accreditation 
has many benefits, Williams said, “If push 
came to shove between choosing what we 
thought needed to be taught and getting 
accreditation, we’d drop the accredita­
tion.” The new rules could make it harder 
for schools to keep this attitude. Under the 
new rules, if CMU is not accredited by one 
agency, it would have to wait a year to be 
recognized by another, if another exists. 
Dropping accreditation all together will 
risk being dropped from federal programs.
Judy Kampert, Assistant Department 
Head of Architecture, points out that the 
rules could force programs to be accredited 
that now are not. Some architecture 
schools, such as those at Princeton and the 
University of Virginia, do not have their 
bachelors programs accredited. Students at 
those schools usually continue into the 
masters program which are accredited. 
Both of CMU’s major architecture pro­
grams were accredited after a review in the 
spring of 1986.
The public has until October 23 to com­
ment on the proposed rules.
Aging TOPS-C Shut Down
continued from page 4
is not the only school to have a TOPS-20 
phase-out as part of its strategy for upgrading 
its computer environment, but for good or bad, 
it is one of the first to actually implement the
CMU Computer Store
CMU Computer Store: UCC - A level 
Phone: ¿2636 MM: PS00@TE 
For a current price list: Type HELP COMPUTER-STORE-PRICES on any TOPS 
System.
CMU Computer Store 
and
Apple Computer, Inc.
are sponsoring a
Macintosh 
Computer Fair
Apple's new Macintosh computer 
technologies and HyperCard 
will be featured
Thursday and Friday 
Saptambar 17 ® IS In tha atrium af tha UCC building
I Oam - 4:30pm ,
?RSAO
MÏÎ
ll
Student Senate Minutes, September 8
change over.” Any questions or comments 
can be electronically sent via Remarks, and an. 
online survey concerning possible computing 
needs is available online by typing TAKE 
<TS98> SURVEY.
Meeting called to order 7:01 pm.
Present: Bendre, Berger, Berkowitz, Bostin, 
Clark, Gallo, Goldstein, Greenberg, 
Hausman, Kombrek, Levine, Liu, Mukherjee, 
Sherlock, Trull.
Absent: Christina (exc.)
Ex-Officio Members Present: Matsko, Ro- 
bitshek, Skolkin, Dean Walter.
Ex-Officio Members Absent: none.
Audience Participation: Dean Walter 
asked Senate to look into the violence which 
took place on August 15 in Breed Hall involv­
ing a Heavy Metal band sponsored by WRCT. 
Questions raised about whether Student Sen­
ate funded the event and if they were informed
that there would be a H.M. band rather than 
poetry reading. Senate will wait for ieport 
from WRCT before taking further action. 
Walter and Senate also discussed administra- 
tion/Student Senate relationship. Present sys­
tem not working. Communication needs im­
provement. Walter wants to meet with Chair­
man and President to address specific issues. 
Would help him do his homework and feel 
more useful at senate meetings. Bostin verbal­
ized general opinion of senators that admini­
stration should be present at every meeting to 
know issues of Senate and be visible.
President: Andrew Robitshek: Tailgate 
party at Saturday football game, 11:30-1:30. 
Postering tomorrow. Also T.G. party for 
Homecoming. Barbecue. Hope for T-shirt 
design. No article yet to Student Union about 
Tech House, because of changes. Report on 
University Center and quality of life coming.
SDC: 1 st meeting Wed, Wherrett room,7:30.
IFC: Watermelon Bash a bash. Sorority and 
fraternity rush disorganized.
Chairman: Dave Goldstein: Office hours on 
Senate door tomorrow. Key cards in Senate 
mailbox. Need I.D. Committees forming. 
Dave’s got information concerning student 
representatives on Faculty Senate. One seat in
CIT, one in H&SS in addition to ones an­
nounced. Petitions needed for vacancies in 
S.S. and for Political Forum Speakers. Went 
over S ARC guidelines for nominating Mr. and 
Ms. Varsity, three people for each. Tabled 
until next week. Question: Should Senators sit 
in campus community? Dana is trying to find 
secondary location.
Treasurer: no report (alternate).
Academic Affairs: Celeste Clark: no report.
Campus Affairs: Glenn Kombrek: Asbes­
tos investigators estimate 90% of buildings 
have asbestos. Ventilation of studios in CFA.
Funding and Recognition: Tamal Mukher­
jee: Motion to allocate $2000 to SARC for 
student activities at Homecoming. Passed.
Public Relation: Dana Hausman: Retreat 
Saturday, September 19. Need help with 
posters. Reception for Freshman at Activities 
Fair after retreat.
Rules: Shep Bostin: Looking for more
people for committee. Meeting on 
Constitution Thursday, 5:00 pm, all to come.
Old Business: none.
New Business: l)Resolution from Green­
berg giving Senate power to nominate all stu­
dent representatives to Board of Trustees 
passed. Walter: “Allen, you’re not really as 
scary as you think you are.” Walter does not 
agree with resolution, but does not intend to 
take away Senate’s say. 2)Greenberg con­
cerned about River City Leaflet Campaign 
stopped on campus. Walter said the leaflet 
distributors did not go to the University for 
permission. Permission is usually granted, 
except when activities may lead to a riot. CMU 
is a private institution.
Points of Discussion: none.
Announcements: Sign up for Tailgate
party. New chairman for F&R needed. There 
will be a Campus affairs meeting. Rules meet­
ing Thursday at 5:00. F&R meeting Saturday.
Meeting adjourned 8:26 pm.
WALK-IN TUTORING
FREE ¦ NO APPOINTMENT NECESSARY
SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY
7:00 -10:00 P.M.
CALCULUSPH 107-A
PHYSICSPH 107-B
CHEMISTRYPH 225-B
INTRO. TO COMPUTINGWeH 5415
ECONOMICSPH 126-C
ACADEMIC WRITINGPH 126-C
Sponsored by Counseling & Student Development 
Center and Student Affairs.
< %
»

---------------------------------------------------

COME TO THE HILLEL COFFEE HOUSE¿¿sCrV : Du>
«T n•&HJWB HMiQE äT MOLLSll^
SfiUi'tf iiKII EMSIUWS fdäUNläH §1?:
V jmM KlKlBBfli
cc ¿441» ¿/ie C^iate^ai Dead, FEATURS. Pagge1U. NdtiUU pso nttsS. gpfdc lpS?OrPmv 
Joan cfsp1cutU1tUy pso ftdw. ftdw fO1V8
5 SATURDAY SEPT IV 9:OOPM ft
Bnai Until Hillel
160 N. Craig Street •Jj
V 621-88/5
* FREE ADMISSION **
AND <J
H REFRESHMENTS
midnight selichot services
/» follow the program
(sponsored by Reform Jews at Pitt)ia*
v>
•*
*#
The $149 Sportster" modem. It brings your school's mainframe computer into your room.
Get CompuServe* IntroPiak—a s40 value—Free!
A Sportster 1200 bps modem connects your Apple, IBM-compatible or almost any 
computer to the world.So instead of going to the university computer center during regular hours, you can access the mainframe computer anytime. Right from your room. You can write or revise your term 
papers. Communicate with bulletin board services. Access libraries. Or even submit your
assignment to your instructor using your 
campus E-mail network. All at around 120 
characters per second.The compact, dependable Sportster 
modem is made by USRobotics, one of America's leading manufacturers for over 10 years. So this is no toy. It's a competitive tool \ 
for students who want to work smarter, not just harder.
At your college bookstore or call for name 
of nearest dealer.
1-800-DIAL-USR,6x158
In Illinois, call 312-982-5001
ÜRHobotics'
The Intelligent Choice In Data Communications
?
A FILM BY JEAN-LUC GODARD
THEBOOKftC
MARY
A I HAILpiH
äi
A Ciao mom Nta Vorne* F."n* Rete as« 19«5
F EAT URSA.P age1NAe 
ddRSagAtARiepRd 
soadnAeoiAtfc A
lRN.1A ?tTE OgAnP OgRpA
wunaiflCTMKflisiTS t*iu *us au«ac «i« »BomiMNacvtcM9.fainiT «awBss «inni snidimi »riioust «ii«-tua» « »us «s* coli use jh cim.es fv
te***« Hi reefed So^c»ct rnm **** • fcnu »ec«»-, *:
I« « sai sai * Ivi «am 11WOI1*
Hail Mary 
Thursday 6, 8,10
Doherty Hall 2210
$1 with CMU ID, $2 without
Funded by your Activities Fee
Foul Play 
Friday 6, 8,10,12
Doherty Hall 2210
$1 with CMU ID, $2 without
"? ? ? ?
ONE OF THE MOST FASCINATING AND 
ENJOYABLE FILMS OF THE YEAR "
rr1mg vNNuy fl0o*s
SS:«*
rfd»VS»tu voO 
rityopj® ’
Animation Celebration 
Sunday 6, 8,10,12 
Doherty Hall 2210 
$1 with CMU ID, $2 without
Jerry Lewis- 
Gene Wilder
and
Simon & Garfunkel
are brothers ofaen
Come see what we're all about...
"Gotta Wear Shades" Party - Morrisons, Friday 9 pm 
"Stop Making Sense" Party - Morrisons, Saturday 9 pm
GIANTEAGLE
EAST LIBERTY
Come join the area's most progressive supermarket 
excellent opportunities for: promotion and
advancement, benefits, guaranteed minimum hours, 
competitive wages, an exciting work environment, and 
paid vacations and holidays for most positions.
wFVv v82, wIo8v8I3o FCF8MFbM, 5IVc
9 bF7,Vo 9 bF7,VW 9 ovIO79 OFo?8,Vo 9 h,M89 2,Fv GVFww,Vo9 OLovI2,V o,VC8O,
FwwMW bW OFMM83lc BkHDkxx— b,vG,,3 0c—— F&2& F3h -c—— w&2&
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYE*

---------------------------------------------------

DESIGN THE 
PERSONAL COMPUTER 
OF THE YEAR 2000.
For details, contact Professor Brad Myers, Wean Hall, Room 4620.Then go crazy. Because by the year 2000, everyone could be using a computer. Your computer.

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial
Where Have All the Classrooms Gone? (or: Calculus in the Men's Room?)
Well, not quite; but if current conditions are any indication of future trends, it doesn’t seem 
entirely unlikely. The University packs us into classrooms like elephants in a Yugo; how many 
times have you had to squirm, squeeze and stumble through a tangle of chairs and people to claim 
the last unoccupied seat in the back of the room? Kind of like musical chairs without the dopey 
tunes, isn’t it?
But this ain’t no kiddie game—what with the Design Department being shuffled around and 
the Bureau of Mines not quite ready for SUPA’s move and the Baker Hall renovation-of-the- 
week, space has become more valuable than ever over the past year. Add to that an increasing 
enrollment, and it becomes downright scarce. According to Registrar Dick Rainsberger, CMU’s 
classroom usage between 8:30 and 4:30 is 72%—that’s 10% above the national average of 62%. 
Pat Keating, VP for Planning, says that the rate jumps to almost 100% between 930 and noon, 
dropping to 50—80% in the afternoon. Those aren’t exactly bad statistics; after all, an empty 
classroom doesn’t do much good.
But is an overcrowded classroom any better? Keating claims that only during 5% of the time 
are rooms at or above capacity. Sounds pretty low, until you see the University’s capacities. 
Rooms with more than 60 seats get lecture hall status, and the University lists 17 of these in the 
new classroom guide. Alongside the obvious ones (DH2210 and We7500) are Porter Hall’s 
125C and 225C, each supposedly seating 90. Never mind that the chalkboards can’t be seen from 
both ends of the room, and all 90 chairs are squished together to fit; if they say it can hold 90, 
then it must be true.
Porter 19A & C, 20 and 21—all miserable rooms in their own right—narrowly missed 
becoming lecture halls: each is rated to hold 60. Imagine being in the back of one of them, 
breathing stale air because the windows won’t open (in 19C, that is; 20 & 21 don’t even fEra 
windows), unable to see the blackboard, much less hear what the TA is talking about, because 
everyone around you is gasping for breath and squeaking their chairs to find the most 
comfortable sleeping position. Not the most conducive setting for learning.
Teaching in such a room isn’t much easier. More students often means less discussion, fewer 
questions (intimidation by numbers is a strong deterrent), more distractions (talking, fidgeting, 
etc.) and less learning.
When asked what can/is being done, Keating quickly brings up the 400—500 seat lecture hall 
in the plans for the University Center. That will help—once it’s built, which won’t be for another
4 or 5 years. By the spring semester, Hamburg Hall’s four classrooms and one lecture hall should 
be ready for use. And by next fall, Physical Plant is scheduled to have moved out of the Porter 
Hall basement and into their new building, freeing a few more classrooms.
So little by little we get more space. Sadly, this is being accomplished through some heavy- 
duty construction projects, when a little forethought and better scheduling could have helped a 
lot more. Why are so many classes held between 9:30 and noon? If the rooms are used less in 
the afternoon, it seems that the logical solution would be to spread out classes more, instead of 
lumping so many together in the morning. This would also avoid many of the class conflicts we 
encounter when signing up for the next semester.
How about ix-naying the huge classes? Cutting down class sizes makes for better teaching as 
well as learning. And by cutting down, we don’t mean cutting out—if a class is in heavy demand, 
instead of offering one large section, why not have two or three small sections? Busy faculty 
members may object, but .a ought to be their primary concern. And instead of Physical Plant 
getting a $7 million building in exchange for a few classrooms, why not build the students a better 
academic building?
Until something happens, though, we’ll just have to cope. Hope the men’s room is comfortable.
g1mvgRu Att FEATU RywV Tue... 
ofthi}... Juxtaposed
2,lI THe... ...¦ d3CcMlUdbt597
kx\Ajh \rA ...mu jAhAn\m
(¡5 THI3 CALtuUJi> X ?f
812, FfPe 15 I3itpCVsEp I8sTt8M 
WhGLBMi5 dkt55 i RSS.P age.1N
/views S8ttAl Z b00gR 25c 9tpO,i-err.
Conservative CornerSupport the Contras, Support Democracy
By AARON M. SOLOMAN &
THOMAS A. HEIM
America is now at a crucial stage in its role as 
a supporter and defender of democracy and 
freedom on this planet. Who do we need to 
support and defend? The Nicaraguan Contras, 
a democratic force in a 
Central American 
Country, right here 
where we live. Why do 
we need to defend them? Because their enemy 
and ours, the Sandinistas, are backed by the 
Soviet Union, and the Soviet Union does not 
promote the spread of democracy and free­
dom.
The Soviet Union has been shipping weap­
ons to Nicaragua since 1980. According to 
Alvin H. Bernstein. Chairman of the Depart­
ment of Strategy at the Naval War College, 
Soviet military deliveries to Nicaragua rose 
from 850 metric tons in 1980, to 23,000 in 
1985 (That’s 23,000 TONS). Before Russia 
stepped in. Nicaragua was a miniscule military 
power. Today it is the strongest military power 
in Central America.
The Presidents of five Central American 
countries have signed a 'Peace Plan”. This is a 
plan that calls for immediate suspension of all 
military aid to the contending parties: none to 
the Contras, none from the Communist coun­
tries to the Sandinistas. The problem with this, 
is that if the Soviet Union did not send another 
gun to Nicaragua for sixty weeks, let alone 
sixty days, the military resources of the 
Sandinistas would hardly suffer. The Contras, 
on the other hand, rely on us, the United States, 
on almost a week to week basis.
Daniel Ortega, the head commandante in 
Nicaragua, is no democrat. If he wanted a 
democratic Nicaragua, he would not have 
made it communist. If he wanted a unaligned 
Nicaragua, he would not have the country 
stuffed full of Soviet military equipment, 
Cubans, East Germans, Libyans, etc... What 
Ortega’s plan consists of, quite brilliantly, is to 
use the negotiations as a weapon to undermine 
the U.S. support of the contras.
How many times do we have to be had by the
ceasefires and negotiations? Have we learned 
nothing from ten years in Vietnam where 
ceasefires and negotiations were regularly 
used by communists to resupply and to rebuild 
assets destroyed in the war? Because of the 
Soviet Union’s backing and weapons, Cuba 
now has troops in Angola, Mozambique, and 
Ethiopia (NR 8/28/87). In Vietnam, Soviet oc­
cupation of the naval facilities at Cam Ranh 
Bay and Da Nang have altered the balance of 
power in the South Sea and the Indian Ocean. 
These bases also make if much easier for the 
Soviets to support local insurgencies, such as
Quality o f Li fe
By ERIC WITTLE
I'd like to close my discussion of the impor­
tance of communication to the Quality of Life 
by discussing the proposed University Center. 
I am sure that most of the campus is familiar by 
now with the basic idea 
behind the University 
Center, and some of the 
details of its design. 
However, there are some things about the 
University Center that are not widely known.
Each person you speak to about the Univer­
sity Center has one topic which he or she feels 
is the most important, or most pressing. These 
topics can range from where it will be located, 
how much it will cost, how it will be paid for, 
what facilities it will provide, when it will be 
started or completed, and how the campus will 
be affected during its construction. All of these 
issues are extremely important to the campus 
community as a whole. However, public dis­
cussion of most of these topics has been very 
limited.
The University center has become an impor­
tant symbol of the administration’s commit­
ment to Quality of Life. However, since the 
initial announcement, there has been little 
visible effort towards the realization of the 
University Center. In fact, conservative esti­
mates at this point seem to indicate that con­
struction will not start within the next four
the new People’s Army in the Philippines, 
which is causing so much havoc with the 
democratically aligned government of Cory 
Aquino. Can we so easily forget Afghanistan?
The Peace Plan calls for “reductions in stand­
ing armies in the region, withdrawal of foreign 
military personnel,” to the point of making 
Nicaragua no longer a military threat to its 
neighbors. In order for the Sandinistas to 
comply with that objective, they would need to 
begin a complete eradication of their military 
on par with MacArthur’s demilitarization of 
the Japanese in 1945. To suppose that the
years. There are several reasons why this esti­
mate is true.
The first, and perhaps most important, is 
funding. It seems hard to believe that we do not 
have the funding for the University Center, al­
though the capital campaign has raised over 
$100 million. This is especially true since the 
University Center was portrayed as a main tar­
get for the capital campaign.
A second reason is the precedence of other 
projects. Realistically, before the University 
Center can be constructed, the new dormitory 
must be completed. At present, the cost esti­
mates for the new dormitory are $4 million 
over the $10 million which was already ap­
proved. Also, the original site for the new 
dorm conflicts with the design of the Univer­
sity Center. If the new dorm is built on the 
original site, along Margaret Morrison, there 
will not be enough space for IM fields when 
the University Center is built. However, the 
alternative placement of the new dorm re­
quires the football field to be rotated. This, 
added to the acute parking problem, seems to 
require that the field rotation, new dorm con­
struction, and parking garage construction be 
complete before the University Center is 
started.
These issues are vital to the timetable for the 
University Center, but have not been commu­
nicated to the campus community. I fear that
Sandinistas ate voluntarily going to abandon 
their political dogma - which calls for totalitar­
ian rule of Nicaragua and aggressive exertions 
against neighboring democracies - is an insult 
to the sincerity of their Marxist-Leninism.
Our only legitimate goal is a Central Amer­
ica which is not allied with our principal en­
emy, the Soviet Union. Today George Schultz 
announced that we will try and raise funds in 
support of our democratic allies, the Contras. 
The peace plans don’t banish Soviet influ­
ence. They don’t accomplish our objective. A 
Contra victory will.
the campus community only sees continuing 
delays in the timetable for the University 
Center, without any real knowledge of the 
factors involved. This failure to communicate 
is extremely detrimental to the Quality of Life 
of the campus community, because it causes 
the community to lose faith in the 
administration’s commitment to improving 
the Quality of Life.
It would obviously be beneficial to all 
elements of the campus community to in­
crease communication about the University 
Center. I believe that this would best be ac­
complished through the creation of a commit­
tee of students, faculty, and administrators 
who are kept up to date on all aspects of the 
University Center. In addition, it would be the 
responsibility of the members of this commit­
tee to disseminate the information they receive 
as widely as possible. This is the basis of a pro­
posal that I will be submitting to the admini­
stration this week.
If you have any question, or comments about 
this proposal, or anything else I have dis­
cussed, I can be contacted through the SDC 
office (x2114), campus mail (Box 576), or 
electronic mail (ewlk@tb).
NAPs 7TPTma Pe E TfPAd WaEA haePdaUT geePeTEUT, 
iAaePdaUT tS Tfa RTpdaUT btAlPTtAW GtpUsPm, 
EUd E lalLaA tS Tfa BUPraAePTW FEek HtAsa tU 
DpEmPTW tS xPSa—
The Real Story Regarding the University Center

---------------------------------------------------

September 15,1987—The Tartan—Page 9“
Slightly to the Left...Justice Bork? Judicial Philosophy A Threat
By MICHAEL FRANZINI &
MICHAEL WITBROCK
“On the domestic side, we face one more 
important task, and no more important task,... 
than securing the confirmation of [sic] the 
Supreme Court of Judge Robert Bork.” In this 
September 8 declara­
tion before senior Ad­
ministration officials, 
President Reagan re-
‘à®n
veals that he considers the elevation of Judge 
Bork his most important political objective, 
more important than a balanced budget, more 
important than arms control. Whatever the 
conservative pundits may claim, Reagan’s 
purposes in this nomination clearly extend far 
beyond the maintenance of an intelligent and 
qualified Court.
Supporters of the nomination have claimed 
that Senators are obliged to confirm this 
“eminently qualified, brilliant” jurist. What 
they mean is that a rubber stamp is required. 
History does not support this claim; one fifth 
of all nominations to the Supreme court have 
been rejected. The Senate is not deciding 
whether Bork should get academic tenure. It is 
deciding whether he is qualified to establish 
(and probably to overturn) judicial precedent.
Inquiring Minds present
If the Senate believes- that the candidate’s 
views of the Constitution, if put into practice, 
would endanger the very institutions and liber­
ties the Constitution provides, then it is 
obliged to reject him.
Nowhere does the Constitution prohibit 
Congressional consideration of the actual 
impact of a judicial appointment. This pending 
appointment has been so hotly debated not 
because of Bork’s extreme political views— 
the incumbent Justice Rehnquist is not at all to 
the left of Judge Bork—but because this ap­
pointee may cast the decisive “swing” vote on 
a wide range of crucial issues. The Senate must 
consider more than wit, brilliance, and “emi­
nent qualifications.” The Senate must gravely 
consider a decision which may unbalance the 
scales of justice for a period reaching well into 
the twenty-first century.
Bork’s followers couch their arguments in 
hazy terms such as “strict constructionist” and 
“original intent.” In one sense, these terms 
characterize the views of all competent jurists, 
since the words denote an allegiance to the 
document which it is the jurists’ duty to up­
hold. However, in the sense of Judge Bork’s 
“constructionism,” these terms represent the 
extreme view that the Court can understand
the framers’ intents only insofar as they are 
explicitly stated in the Constitution: “Where 
constitutional materials do not clearly specify 
the value to be preferred, there is no principled 
way to prefer any claimed human value to any 
other.”
The very notion that this “judicial philoso­
phy” should be applied opposes the intent of a 
constitution which proclaims that the Court 
should consider how to serve Justice in par­
ticular “cases” or “controversies” individually 
rather than espouse philosophy which might 
predispose rulings. Justice Powell, whose res­
ignation prompted this nomination, made this 
clear in a NY Times interview: “I never think 
of myself as having a judicial philosophy... I 
try to be careful, to do justice to the particular 
case, rather than try to write principles that will 
be new, or original, or whatever.”
The central threat of Bork’s philosophy is, 
however, the extreme limitation of the range 
of rights and values he believes to be protected 
in the Constitution, particularly in the Bill of 
Rights (which he derides as a “hastily drafted 
document upon which little thought was ex­
pended”) and in the Fourteenth Amendment 
(the authors of which, he believes, “had not 
even thought the matter through”). In fact,
Campus Awards: And the Winner Is...
By THE INQUIRING STAFF
0 * Did you see it? Those fun-loving guys at 
Rand McNally are at again. This time they’ve 
got a list of the best places to retire. And you 
know what? Pittsburgh didn’t even make the 
top ten! Boy, it was 
quite a shock to us, too! 
Do you think that 
they’ve sold more at­
lases here since the last set of ratings came out?
But seriously folks, it’s just a matter of time 
before our favorite map-maker decides to do 
some ratings of colleges. In fact, we’ve al­
ready seen a pre-release version of the ratings. 
Carnegie Mellon, the fine institution that it 
thinks it is, of course, does pretty dam well.
Now we know you’re curious about what 
Carnegie Mellon actually does well. So, to 
save you a couple of bucks, we’re listing how 
we did in a couple of the key categories.
We finished 28th in a category that had been 
thought to be locked up—Number of Students 
Per Parking Space. However, we have seen 
that the administration is making an effort to 
improve our ranking here, and we expect to be 
in the top 15 by the next ranking.
We finished eighth in three categories—sort 
of like Columbia in Ivy League sports. Cer­
tainly the most important was the Number of 
Tons of Manure Spread Per Year. It should be 
noted that if it wasn’t for Warner Hall’s press 
releases for SEI, we would have finished no 
higher than 142nd (behind even Oral Roberts 
University). We also finished eighth in Most 
Basements Per Building and Longest Party 
Guest Lists. Fortunately for us, they checked 
our lists during this year's dry rush.
Speaking of dry rush, this really fine idea 
enabled us to place seventh in the prestigious 
category of Most Drinks Consumed at Dry 
Parties. We also finished seventh for the 
George Steinbrenner Memorial Award— 
most humanities deans hired in one year. Plus, 
we were seventh in Most Athletic Facilities 
Built With Life Spans of Under Six Months.
Impressive as those numbers are, we really 
shone in the final few categories. We garnered 
a fourth place award for another category: 
Least Attention Paid to Campus Radicals.
We also received two bronze metals for hav­
ing the Most Attack Sprinklers and Spending 
the Most Money to Clone a Macintosh.
All of Carnegie Mellon can take pride in the 
silver medals we earned. These came from 
having the Most Fire Alarms Per Building and
the Most Acronyms Per Campus. The decision 
to drop CMU in favor of Carnegie Mellon may 
have cost us first here. We’re a little further 
behind in fire alarms, but if the people of 
Mudge would just try as hard as the fine More- 
woodians, we could pass Duquesne easily.
Believe it or not, we’ve saved the best for 
last: three gold medals! But before we go any 
further, let’s all take a moment and pat our­
selves on the back, because it was a real team 
effort that earned these awards.
Warner Hall showed how much it cares by 
contributing the most towards two of these 
victories. We easily had the Highest Number 
of Master Plans Approved, and the switch to
the 14 degree square gave us the Most Expen­
sive Piece of Macintosh Clip Art. And GS1A, 
ECE, CFA, and Physical Plant all played key 
roles in getting us the award in which we take 
the most pride—the Largest Campus Trailer 
Park in the United States.
Now for the bad news. For all of our wonder­
ful deeds and glories, we lost. Yup, we came in 
second—lost to Penn St.-McKeesport. But we 
still don’t understand how; it was for really 
simple things like their professors speaking 
English and their food being edible. We just 
might have to work on those next year.
Ffa IU0pPAPUn RTESS Pe R— xarPUa, &— o EAnEmPe, 
R— oEAktU, G— 7PmmPEle, EUd h— 7PmetU—
Senate Prez Reveals...What’s Going On?
By ANDREW ROBITSHEK
• Congratulations to the Tartans on their 
first tie of the season. It was nice to see so 
many people at the game. The tailgate party 
was a success again, with a turnout of
nearly 800 people. 
If you missed it, try 
and make it to the 
one at homecoming. 
I would like to thank Kevin Joy for helping 
to coordinate this event. Thanks also to Stu­
dent Senate, SDC, A Phi O, Spirit, SARC, 
and the Residents Life program. It would 
have never have happened without them.
• Have you ever wanted to meet the Presi­
dent of the University? He does have office 
hours for students. It may take a while to see 
him, but if you make the effort you can 
easily meet him. If you have a problem on 
campus and you don’t know where to turn, 
try Student Affairs; that’s what they’re 
there for. They are located on the second 
floor of Warner Hall. If they can't solve 
your problem they can lead you to the 
person who can.
• -AaEkPUn g.EW is being shown FREE in 
DH2210 on Wednesday. It’s being pre­
sented by Student Affairs and Career Serv­
ices and Placement. Talking about Career 
Services, if you haven’t been to their office 
in the basement of Warner, you should. 
They provide excellent help for future ca­
reer planning, no matter what year you are. 
Make an appointment with them now.
• Tickets go on sale next week for the
plays in Kresge Theatre. Stop by and get 
them while you can; they’re excellent 
shows.
• Student Senators start their office hours 
this week. Stop by room 59 in Skibo, down 
the long hall by the banking machines.
• If you have a complaint about anything 
on campus, write a letter to the editor of one 
of the papers on campus; don’t just go 
around mumbling. Show your support or 
distaste for an issue.
• The libraries have late hours this year for 
late night studiers. They close at 3:00 dur­
ing the week and midnight on weekends.
• If you haven’t been to Scotland Yard, 
you should stop in. They have improved 
their service and still make the best blender 
drinks around.
• Apple is presenting another AppleFest 
product demonstration in the atrium of the 
UCC September 17 &18; it should be a 
great graphics show.
• ?Pdat GAteePUn, presented by the Digi­
tal Art Exchange, will be presented in the 
Loge (fourth floor CFA) at 5:00 pm Thurs­
day the 17th. It’s a multimedia event incor­
porating light and sound. Admission is free 
for the entire campus, and it is supposed to 
be an excellent show.
• Stop by a Student Senate meeting to find 
out some of the things that are happening on 
campus (every Tuesday at 7pm in the 
Wherrett room.)
gUdAa. htLPTefak Pe Tfa iAaePdaUT tS 
RTpdaUT “traAUlaUT—
Judge Bork takes issue with the tenets upon 
which the country was established (“We hold 
these truths to be self-evident, that all men are 
created equal, that they are endowed by their 
Creator with unalienable rights.”) He dis- - 
misses as “rhetoric” the notion that any. 
“rights... inhere in humans.” Instead, he 
speaks of competing “gratifications”: “There 
is no principled way to decide that one man’s 
gratifications are more deserving of respect 
than another’s, or that one form of gratifica­
tion is more worthy than another.” »
For example, Bork would not distinguish k 
between the “gratification” a married couple 
might derive from privately using contracep­
tives (Griswold v. Connecticut) and the “grati­
fication” that others might derive from pre- ‘ 
venting them from doing so. Bork would see 1 
no reason for a judge to protect “the happiness : 
to be derived from engaging in the activity” of 
free speech more than that to be derived from 
“following [one’s] profession as a river port 
pilot, working as a bar maid, engaging in 
sexual activity, playing tennis, [or] rigging 
prices...”
Not only does Bork see no inherent value in 
free speech, but he also seeks to weaken the 
protection it is given by the first amendment: 
“Constitutional protection should be accorded 
only to speech that is explicitly political. There 
is no basis for judicial intervention to protect 
any other form of expression, be it scientific, 
literary or that variety of expression we call 
obscene or pornographic. Moreover,... there 
should be no constitutional obstruction to laws 
making criminal any speech that advocates... 
the violation of any law.”
This interpretation would, for example, al­
low southern states to forbid the very mention 
of evolution within their borders; it would 
allow, to use Bork’s example, the censorship 
of the novel Ulysses; it would allow states to 
silence advocates of civil disobedience. It 
could have been used to stop Martin Luther 
King, Jr.
The President, whom Justice Thurgood 
Marshall recently ranked at “the bottom” on 
civil rights, has set the Bork confirmation at 
the top of his political agenda. Ronald Reagan 
wants to end with “a good curtain call." The 
Senate should boo him off the stage.
______The Tartan______
Editor-in-Chief.......................Russ Seligman
Managing Editor.....................David N. Levy
Business Manager.......................Mark Benish
News Editor...........................Karl Barnhart
Assistant News Editor.................Eric Leuliette
Features Editor.....................„...Mary Murphy
Assistant Features Editor_____Judy Haraburda
Sports Editor..........................Stewart Levine
Diversions Editor....________.......Bruce Kasrel
Assistant Diversions Editor______Leslie Griffin
Photo Editor______________Glenn Schuster
Art Editor_______________Grant Carmichael
Production Manager_____________Drue Miller
Ad Manager_________________Celeste Clark
Copy Manager............................ Nancy St. Louis
Contributing Editors..................Olve Peerson
Lisa D. McAnany 
Albrecht T. Powell 
John Friedmann 
Neil Greenblum.
The Tartan is a student newspaper of Carnegie Melton University ft 
is a weekly newspaper, published each Tuesday during the fa# and 
spring semesters by students at no cost to members ot the university 
community It is printed by Typecraft Press Inc Subscriptions are 
available for $15 per semester $25 per year The Editorial appearing 
at the beginning of the opinion section is the official opinion of The 
Tartan editorial board Columns are the opinions of individual authors 
who are not necessarily on The Tartan editorial board or staff Letters to the Editor are opinions of individual authors who are usually 
members of the University community A letter intended for publication 
must be signed and include the writer's address and phone number for 
verification Names win be withheld upon request The Tartan re­
serves the right to condense or retect any letter or column Copyright 
1967 by The Tartan The editorial board reserves the nght to withhold 
from publication any copy N deems unlit for publication
Office: Skibo 50-52 (412)268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan / Box 17 / Carnegie 
Melton University / Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
Funded in part by the Activities Fee AH rights 
reserved Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.
*

---------------------------------------------------

KAUFMANN'S
a division of
The May Department Stores Company
cordially invites you
to attend our Open House
Monday, September 21
Skibo Room 12 
10 a.m. to 4 p.m.
Stop in to discuss
challenging and rewarding
opportunities through our
Executive Training Program.
The following Seniors 
who successfully completed our 
Summer Internship Program 
will also be available to 
provide information:
Mark Hart Laleh Hassibi
Carl Messineo Michael Nazzaro

---------------------------------------------------

Features
Scholarships, Grants, Awards: Will They Go Begging?
By RONALD G. REDMOND completed applications is November 15,1987
FEATEU RTESS.APTaA (applications must be obtained before No vem -
Are you short on tuition money? GSL just ber l.)Thedeadline for completed selected
doesn’t cut it? Here are a few things Carnegie professions applications is December 15,
Mellon students should be aware of to solve 1987, except M.B.A category (applications
their financial problems: must be obtained before December l.)The
deadline for completed M.B.A. applications is
• The Corporate Challenge. A prize of February 1, 1988 (applications must be ob-
$10,000 will be awarded to a student, or group tained before December l.)Notification of
of students, who prepare an answer of up to awards will be sent to all applicants by April
5,000 words to a case study describing a fic- 15,1988.
tional company’s responses to the challenges • Other fellowships for women (only) are the
it faces throughout the 20th century. The case American Fellowships. These are Post-Doc-
study is available from Institutional Share- toral and Dissertation fellowships for any
holder Services, Inc. 3050 K Street, N.W., field. Applications can be obtained by written
Suite 300,Washington, D.C. 20007. The dead- request only from American Fellowships,
line is November 1, and further information AAUW Education Foundation at the same
can be obtained from Jennie Kaplan (202) 944- address as above. Postdoctoral fellowships are
4800. given to those who have their doctorate by
• Selected Professions Fellowships. November 15,1987, and plan to do post doc-
Women (only) who are entering their final year toral research. Dissertation fellowships are for
of study in 1988-89 as full-time students can those who have completed all required course
apply for this award. Women in the following work and examinations for the doctorate,
fields and degree programs are eligible to (except for their dissertation defense) by No-
apply: Architecture (M.Arch.), Business vember 30,1987. Applications are available
administration (M.B.A.), Engineering until November 1,1987. The postmark dead-
(M.E.)(M.S.)(Ph.D.), Law (J.D.), and Medi- line for completed applications is November
cine (M.D.)(D.O.). Applications can be ob- 15,1987. Notification of awards will be on
tained by written request from: Selected Pro- April 15,1988.
fessions Fellowships, AAUW Educational • Quest for Excellence. A treat for young 
Foundation, 2401 Virginia Avenue, N.W., musicians who specialize in Jazz (on any in-
Washington, D.C. 20037. The deadline for strument) is the Quest for Excellence scholar-
AFROTC Reaches Milestone
PITTSBURGH—This Friday, Septem­
ber 18, the Air Force ROTC unit at Carne­
gie Mellon will be celebrating the 40th an­
niversary of the Air Force.
The Air Force was essentially bom out 
of the National Security Act of 1947. Be­
fore this time, the defense of the country 
was entrusted to two separate organiza­
tions, the Army and the Navy. There were 
no specific provisions for these two de­
partments to work with each other. The 
advent of airpower during World War I 
began to change this. Airpower could be
used to assist both naval and land battles. 
The Army created an “air corps” within 
its ranks. During World War II, the air 
corps proved to be so invaluable that it 
became clear that airpower was deserving 
of a separate and equal status. Thus, the 
National Security Act created the Air 
Force and combined all three departments 
(Air Force, Army, Navy) under one cabi­
net position: the Secretary of Defense. 
Operationally, the defense was lead by 
the Joint Chief of Staff.
2087 A.D.: 70-Story Dorms and 
Satellite Launching on Flagstaff
stantly.) Indeed, things were quite different at 
CM in 1987 A.D., signifying just how far
come in the last century. Some of the senior 
members of the faculty can still remember a 
time when the mayor of Pittsburgh wasn’t also 
the president of Carnegie Mellon (this tradi­
tional practice began around the time of Ren­
aissance IV).
Possibly the single most important factor in 
making Carnegie Mellon the megacorporation 
it has now become was CM’s design and 
construction of the Herb A. Simon Elevated 
Waterway — the three-hundred mile canal 
which provides Pittsburgh with its most direct 
Atlantic Ocean link and has made it a major 
international shipping port. With the comple­
tion of this project, CM became a 49-percent 
partner in the City of Pittsburgh and an impor­
tant national political voice. When only two 
years later, a group of researchers at CM 
presented its alternative to the Strategic De­
fense Initiative (a Federal missile-defense 
project whose feasibility studies dragged on 
for decades before CM’s plan was imple­
mented in the space of five years), we secured 
our position as the most valuable brain trust in 
history.
One of the first things Carnegie Mellon did 
with its new money and influence was to 
expand. Today the campus, research, and
continued on pagr 12
By BOB GLICKSTEIN
Tartan Staffwriter
It is now September, 2087, and I think high 
time to look back at the way Carnegie Mellon 
was a century ago. Our University was 
founded in 1906, but it wasn’t until about the 
year 1987 that CM started to make a real name 
for itself, slowly becoming the world-class 
shaker it is today. Thanks to the Software 
Engineering Institute, which we won from the 
Department of Defense, and the pioneering 
work that the alum’s of a hundred years ago 
did in distributed file servers (the historical 
“Andrew” computer system), Carnegie Mel­
lon is now the most feared and respected 
institution in the world.
One hundred years ago, before this newspa­
per was called The Tilted Square,, it was 
known as The Tartan, a name which survived 
even the replacement of the antiquated tartan 
CMU logo (the U stood for University). One 
hundred years ago, there was no CM-run bank 
^ — students lined up in the basement of the 
University Center (then “Skibo”, a tiny, di­
lapidated, almost thoroughly unequipped fa­
cility) in front of three unreliable banking 
machines. (These machines proliferated 
throughout the country at the time, and users 
were expected to memorize a four or five digit 
access code, rather than have a signature- 
dynamics tablet confirm their identities in­
Double Bubble Toil and Trouble
There are certain stains that plague all of us. 
The frustration of having either efficiency or 
aesthetic pleasure spoiled by an unsightly mark 
is something we have all experienced. Many 
people fail to realize that with the right remedy,
stinky flavors which precede the chewer’s 
arrival are “Choco-Mint”(scented like adiges- 
tive aid) and Strawberry (the smell of rotting 
fish). The cracking, chewing, popping noises 
of gum do nothing for the community, but 
watching your friends exude foreign, techni­
color substances from their mouths, is an even 
less pleasant experience.
Gum generally travels around for quite some 
time, presenting itself on desks, chairs, walls, 
shoes and inevitably more ingenious spots. 
There is nothing more annoying than having 
gum stuck to your sweater or skirt, except 
perhaps trying to remove it. Several individu­
als claim to be able to perform this feat with the 
aid of a household remedy. Here are a few 
secrets:
“Put it in the freezer and then get a knife and 
continued on page 13
BY SARA FLYNN
messes can be removed painlessly, restoring 
the subject or object to its original state.
There are two particularly ugly stains at 
Carnegie Mellon.One is GUM. It aggravates 
all the senses—especially when it has been 
created to evoke the image of a sub-tropical 
barrio by attacking the olfactory nerves with an 
aura of burnt plantains. Other particularly

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12—The Tartan—September 15,1987
Pittsburgh helps celebrate...U.S. Constitution Turns 200
PITTSBURGH—From September 10 
through October 9, the Bicentennial of the 
U.S. Constitution will be celebrated at the 
Courthouse Gallery/Forum. The Blessing of 
Liberty has two parts. From the Pennsylvania 
Humanities Council comes an exhibit of the 
historical background of the writing and the 
ratification of the Constitution.
From the perspective of our own time comes 
an exhibit by the Calligraphy Guild of Pitts­
burgh. Calligraphers were free to choose any 
words related to the Constitution. Three differ­
ent versions of 7a, Tfa iat"ma and of IS oaU 
7aAa gUname in three different styles are 
shown. Myma Rosen deals with words from 
Ffa iAaElLma in incised aluminum foil, and 
William Snyder takes a more traditional ap­
proach to the same words using ink on hand­
made paper.
Graham Whitlow’s iaUUeWmrEUPE RPnUETtq
APae Tt Tfa B—R— GtUeTPTpTPtU reminds us of our 
own Commonwealth’s part in history. Kathy 
Boykowycz’ baTts0parPmma DptTa gives an­
other kind of history, a more philosophical 
approach emphasized by cut and tom paper.
The Courthouse Gallery/Forum is located on 
the first floor foyer of the Allegheny County 
Courthouse on Grant Street. It is open Monday 
through Friday, 8:30 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. and is 
free to the public. For further information, call 
the Bureau of Cultural Programs at 392-8411.
In addition to this exhibit, Elliot Richardson, 
a former Cabinet Member and an outstanding 
national leader, will be in Pittsburgh on Thurs­
day, September 17, a part of a national celebra­
tion that day to commemorate the Bicenten­
nial of the U.S. Constitution. Under the spon­
sorship of the Pennsylvania Humanities 
Council (PHC), Mr. Richardson will lecture 
on “The Constitution: Our Written Legacy” at 
5:30 p.m. at the Union Trust Building (Mellon 
Center Two) Auditorium with a reception 
following at 6:30 p.m. Both the lecture and
Elloit R¡chardon, Bicentenial speaker
reception are free and open to the public. The 
event is being organized by the Pittsburgh area 
Friends of the Pennsylvania Humanities 
Council. Support for this program has been 
provided by Mellon Bank, Allegheny County 
Bar Association, The Mary Hillman Jennings 
Foundation, and PPG Industries.
Mr. Richardson’s presentation will be one of 
ten given throughout Pennsylvania in obser­
vance of this national holiday. Other lectures 
will be offered across the state by noted indi­
viduals such as former Chief Justice Warren 
Burger and PHC Commonwealth Speakers 
James Kehl, Ellis Katz, Daniel Elazar, Robert 
Ginsburg and D. Grier Stephenson. Other 
Pittsburgh events sponsored by the PHC to 
commemorate the Constitution include a lec­
ture at Allegheny County Community College 
the morning of September 17th by Paul 
Zolbrod, a Commonwealth Speaker; and an 
exhibit at the Court Gallery/Forum at the Al­
legheny County Courthouse that will run from 
September 10 through October 10 featuring 
the “Blessings of Liberty” posters on the his­
tory of the Constitution.
d
® at The Carnegie
Q 006 ¦ *A11 Ages, Levels, and Interests
¡¡¡¡¡¡¡¡¡J *Special Master Classes
^ REGISTER NOW! QUALITY DANCE INSTRUCTION
^Classes Begin September 26
*For Information, call The Carnegie at 622-3288 
*Mention this Ad for 10% off Registration Fee
TAMETHOSEWILDENDS.
Control them. Subdue them. Then make 
them luxuriant. vg1UfD,E.p * Is the sensa­
tional way for getting dry, damaged ends to 
behave beautifully. Just leave on after 
shampooing to condition moisturize and 
add thickness. And see how civilized your 
spMt ends can be.
Lewis’
813 S. Aiken Avenue • Shadyside 
682-40630967
ECE Soph Named Truman Scholar
PITTSBURGH— Huntsville native 
Christopher H. Williams, a sophomore 
majoring in electrical and computer engi­
neering and public policy, has been named 
a 1987 Truman Scholar. He is one of 105 
U.S. college students selected annually for 
this award, and the first CMU student to 
receive such an honor.
Williams represents the third generation 
of his family attending Carnegie Mellon. 
His parents, Thomas G. Wiliams and Geor­
gia W. Williams, are alumni of the Univer­
sity. His grandfather, Everard Mott Wil­
liams, was head of the Electrical Engineer­
ing Department from 1952 to 1969.
The Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foun­
dation, established by Congress to honor the
country’s 33rd presedent, grants scholar­
ships to outstanding students who intend to 
pursue careers in government and related 
public service. The award covers up to 
$7,000 in expenses during a student’s jun­
ior and senior years in college, as well as 
two years of graduate work. Williams plans 
to get a master’s degree in electrical engi­
neering, and eventually work in some facet 
of arms control.
A National Merit scholar, Williams is a 
member of Lambda Sigma, the national 
sophomore honor society, and chairperson 
of Carnegie Mellon’s Student Council 
Food Services Committee. He is also the 
recipient of a scholarship from General 
Motors Corp.
ATTENTION ARTISTS
Monona Rossos, Occupational Safety Expert, will speak about danger 
in the studios, on Wednesday, Spetember 16. The schedule of topics is 
as follows:
10:30 Printmaking in DH-D101
1:30 Painting in the Loge
3:00 Ceramics in DH-B300
7:00 KEYNOTE ADDRESS in WH7500
Will Monorail Replace Shuttle?
continued from page 11
manufacturing facilities cover eight to ten 
times the space of the old “CMU”. For ex­
ample, CM is one of the few existing campuses 
with its own satellite launching facility. This 
enormous complex is situated high atop what 
used to be “Flagstaff Hill”, once the frontier of 
Schenley Park. Another very recent example 
of expansion has been the replacement of the 
Morewood complex with the Morewood- 
Craig Mall, whose first-floor shops, subterra­
nean parking garage, and seventy stories of 
housing in two towers fulfill all current and 
forseeable housing needs. Until this was built, 
the tallest building in sight was the Cathedral 
of Learning at the University of Pittsburgh. 
(Interestingly, about fifty years ago, Pitt tried 
to catch up with CM’s rapid rise by designing 
“Cathedral II”, which was to be even more 
impressive [not to mention taller] than the 
original Cathedral. Sadly, it never was built.) 
What is perhaps the most interesting aspect of 
CM’s physical expansion is its use of the 
“ravines”. As recently as thirty years ago, the 
campus was bounded on nearly all sides by 
vast ravines, which historically have divided 
Pittsburgh into different ethnic neighborhoods 
since the first settlers came here long ago.
Steep inclines led downward out of the back of 
Hamerschlag Hall, once the very edge of 
campus. Down in the valley below ran a single, 
lonely train track. Today, that train runs 
through a tunnel in the deepest sub-basements 
of the Richard M. Cyert Center for Informa­
tion Technology Research, which fills the 
ravine as though the ravine was never there. 
Speaking of trains, try to imagine our campus 
without the high-speed monorail subway 
connecting all points between Centre Avenue 
and Schenley Park, Murray Avenue and Belle- 
field. And yet, this essential development was 
not even considered until around 2021.
Clearly, the Carnegie Mellon of today is a far 
different place than the Carnegie Mellon 
University of yesterday (or the “Carnegie 
Institute of Technology” which predates 
CMU). The changes in just the last one 
hundred years are too numerous to adequately 
summarize. One thing, however, is certain — 
CM is a dynamic institution. The enormous 
changes of the last century are not the end. 
Now that University president Edmund Blaine 
is also a United States senator, we can be sure 
that more changes are in store for Carnegie 
Mellon.
P/ume 363
16 INCHPEPPERONI PIZZA $4.wta
Sunday through Friday 3 pm - 2 am 
Saturday 11 am - 2 am

---------------------------------------------------

”am"Spm fPUTe StA———
* Unsightly Stains: Gum and Trailers
continued from page 11 nicated through Gum language,
cut it off,” says Alex Rosenberg, presenting the The most interesting thing about gum is that 
“tough-guy” approach to removal. it represents a certain type of stain that is
“I usually mix a solution of Cascade, vinegar, virtually unforgettable. Another such unfor-
soda water and hair spray and it really works gettable stain is the Carnegie Mellon trailer,
wonders, “ says Juliette Borda. Like gum, they attach themselves liberally to
^ Sandy Greene employs a simpler means of any surface. They also scar lawns, as gum scars
dealing with the plague: “Peanut butter.” clothes. They smell terrible although we only
And Paula Giovanitti, Pittsburgh native, seem to have them in one flavor “Industrial
favors a more complicated solution, “I get a Grayberry.” The other uses for trailers have yet
Kleenex and put nail polish remover on it, and to be discovered. They don’t add spice to tired
then attack the garment trying not to touch it lawns. Although they perk up a parking lot and
"with my fingers.” complement a mobile home, they just don’t do
The only redeeming feature of gum is that much for our landscape. Instead they deface the
once it has been chewed and removed from aesthetic pleasure of the campus without dis-
­g several surfaces it can be used again. While the crimination, these trailers abound.
idea of putting it back in the mouth might not Just as teasing your digestive enzymes with 
appeal to some, gum can gain a new identity, a piece of nutrient-free plastic could be consid-
Substitute aged gum for paper clips or safety ered an inappropriate way to use the mouth,
pins—it really does the job! It adds spice to nose and throat, so the trailers function as well,
those tired entrees. A few pieces-in the meat- As with gum, however, the concern on campus
loaf, or on top of the casserole not only look is what will happen next?
nice but also make the food last longer 1. Will they multiply like gum chewers and
Masticated gum also perks up floral arrange- cause traffic jams?
W ments, hair-dos, library books and eyeglasses 2. Will they stick around forever?
with color and style. Some even go so far as to 3. Will they go where chewed gum yearns to
boast of their chewing abilities by tacking gum breathe free—the garbage can?
to the side of their beer-cups at parties, thereby More likely, ridding the campus of trailers
demonstrating the Trophy approach to the take three witches with home remedies, to meet
sport. “I want everyone to know I can chew in thunder, lightning and rain, when the hurly-
AND save it for later, too!” is what is commu- burly is done, and the battle’s lost to gum.
>Want to see your name in print? Want to gain valuable experience?FEATURESWrite for
Call x2111 for more information
l
­E
TO: STUDENTS WHO ANTICIPATE WORKING AT CARNE­
GIE MELLON—NEW HIRES AT CARNEGIE MELLON AS OF 
NOVEMBER 6,1986.
SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT ELIGIBILITY VERIFICATION
The new federal immigration law, which was passed to deal with the 
problem of illegal aliens, requires employers to determine that their new 
employees (hired at Carnegie Mellon after November 6,1986), are legally 
entitled to work in the United States. This law applies regardless of whether 
the new employee is a foreign national or a United States citizen. The law 
also mandates the procedures that must be followed to determine that a 
person has the right to work.
TO ENSURE THAT STUDENTS UNDERSTAND THE NEW REGU­
LATIONS AND COLLECT THE DOCUMENT NECESSARY TO 
COMPLY WITH THE LAW, THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION IS 
PROVIDED CONCERNING EMPLOYMENT VERIFICATION:
Carnegie Mellon will be required to complete Part 2 of the l-9Form(s). 
Students must present to their employing department on campus original 
document(s) that establish(es) both employment authorization and identify. 
Most students, for identification purposes, will use a state-issued driver's 
license, a school identification card containing a photograph, or a voter's 
registration card. For employment authorization purposes, most students 
will present a social security number card or an original birth certificate.
A student (newly hired) who possesses the required documents, but is 
unable to provide these documents at the time of hiring, will be hired, but 
will be granted a 21 day extension period, during which period he/she will 
be required to show these documents to the designated person in the hiring 
department.
A full listing of acceptable documentation is available in theFinancial Aid 
Office, 213 Warner Hall.
Any questions about the requirements of the 1-9 Form should be directed 
to the Payroll Office, Ext. 2097.
AIDS and CMU
Want to learn more?
come seeReducing the Risk 
Sex. Drugs and Aids
[uncHtime vieunnjj!
AIDS Videos
in the Wherret Room
Sept 17 Sept 21
andSept 25
viewing from 12:00-12:30 questions and discussion to follow
“The Best Place In Town For A Wing Out!”
Mike Kalina-Pgh. Press
InAe t hR“AE ot"UAp 5eRS 21N.D21N. aR hAtag ot"UAqq
Open 3:30 p.m. T-H till 10:30 
F-S till 11:30 
Open Sundays - till 8:30.
PALL-
421 -WING
Our Ribs?
”bApa 1E agA O1aP­
:oEAPEUPze GtEeT Tt4GteeT bPUPUn “pPdE
MRIB HOUSE RR’ "¦
Ribs • Chicken • Barbecue

---------------------------------------------------

ab danc 
presents
the
.PTf lpePs LWarraato
EUd
­FtUW RsEA"aTGP, ­b&
(Freshmen, YOU partied with him at camp!)
Saturday SeptembeHW 1987 
in Thistle Hall in the Gym
10 pm - 1 am
Doos will be given away at 12:30
Have a party - $50.00 Gift Certificate Good at Scotland Yard 
Prepare for it - $50.00 from the CMU Art store 
Music for it - A Portable CD Player

---------------------------------------------------

SLEEPING with 
anybody NEW 
lately??
How about hosting a bagger?
There are 4 different sleep­
ing bag weekends this fall: 
Oct. 11-12 (CIT/MCS)
Oct. 25-26 (H&SS)
Nov. 8-9 (CIT/MCS)
Nov. 15-16 (CFA)
Place your order NOW for a 
prime sleeping mate. Call x2082
THE PITTSBURGH 
SYMPHONY
VIDEO CROSSING - MAGICAL DAX
DAX
the Digital Art Exchange 
of Carnegie Mellon University 
invites you to attend a telematic art event.
Video Crossing - Magical DAX will take place at 
5:30 in the evening on Thursday, September 17,1987 in 
the Loge on the fourth floor of the College of Fine Arts.
DAX, Roger Dannenberg, Chris Koeningsberg, and 
visiting artist, Scott Timm will interact with 
the Museum of Image and Sound 
of Sao Paulo, Brazil 
to make magic.
Free to the Public.> \ »
Oil , ‘
attention: h&ss seniors
a. The deadline to turn your resume 
in to Career Services and Place­
ment (Warner Hall 19) for the 
H&SS Resume Book is Wednesday,
attention: im seniors
The deadline to turn your resume 
in to Career Services and Place­
ment (Warner Hall 19) for the IM 
Resume Book is Wednesday, Septem­
September 16. Only one page 
a resumes will be accepted.
If you need help preparing your 
resume, make an appointment to 
see Debbie Mall in Career Serv- 
u ices and Placement.
Don't miss the opportunity to 
have your resume included in the 
H&SS Resume Book, which is sent
ber 16. Only one page resumes 
will be accepted.
If you need help preparing your 
resume, make an appointment to 
see Debbie Mall in Career Serv­
ices and Placement.
Don't miss the opportunity to 
have your resume included in the 
IM Resume Book, which is sent to
A to hundreds of potential employ­
ers .
hundreds of potential employers.
*

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16—The Tartan—September 15,1987
Tennis Team Triumphs Twice
continued from page 20
Bonnie Kartzman (#3) by a score of 6-4, 6-3. 
The Tartans only needed one more win. At #2 
doubles Andrea Benowitz (#2) and Sohee 
Chung lost to Carrie Deuera (#2) and Stepha­
nie Nelson (#4) 6-1 1-6 2-6.
At this point only the #3 doubles match 
remained. Amy Fibus and Tracy Boyd split 
sets, 6-2 2-6. Coming down toward the end of 
the last set, the score was 5-4 in the set and was 
3-2 in the game. With Fibus serving, there 
ensued a volley that must have gone on for 
seven to ten strokes with Carnegie Mellon 
ultimately losing the point, thus, making the 
score 3-3. Since college tennis teams play no- 
ad scoring, at 3-3 the next point wins. Fibus hit 
a well placed serve that was returned only to be
put away by Tracy Boyd standing at the net. 
The match ended 6-2, 2-6, 6-4; and Carnegie 
Mellon defeated Pitt, 5-4.
Earlier in the week, Camegie Mellon also 
defeated Division I Duquesne University in a 
7-2 match. Wins were recorded by Suzy 
Dottor (# 1), Beth Cavanaugh (#3), Amy Fibus 
(#4), Tracy Boyd (#5), Jamie Nageley (#6), 
the #1 doubles team of Cavanaugh and Dottor, 
and the #3 team of Fibus and Boyd. This 
makes the team’s overall record 2-0.
The team’s next match is on Thursday, Sep­
tember 17 against California University of Pa. 
at home at 3:30. The First in-conference match 
will be against Hiram College at home Sep­
tember 19 at 1:00.
Giants vs. Seahawks 
In Super Bowl XXII?
continued from page 18
REU HAEUePest j[aAe: The defending Western 
champs have a few questions that need to be 
addressed. Most importanly, can QB Joe 
Montana take a full year of play after coming 
off surgery last season? WR Jerry Rice had an 
incredible year and will continue to be a fixture 
at wide receiver. Overall a strong team but not 
strong enough to repeat.
1a. 2AmaEUe REPUTeJ With the surprising suc­
cess of RB Rueben Mayes, the Saints posted a 
7-9 record last year. Drafting Shaun Knight a 
DT will help sure up a soft pass rush. The
Saints still need help in the secondary but 
should finish around 8-8 (.500), ahead of the
Falcons.
gTmEUTE HEmstUe: Uncertainty over QB David 
Archer will hurt the Falcons. The Falcons 
were often burned due to the fact that their pass 
rush was almost nonexistent RB Kenny 
Flower, the Falcon’s second round draft pick 
should help a poor rushing game. The Falcons 
are the only team in the West who are going to 
be heading downwards, and in this case, into 
the cellar.
BBN IS TELUNG GRADUATES WHERE TO GO...
(MSSTl/
For exciting careers, 
challenges, growth, 
and opportunities to I 
work with clients and .
technologies that are I
eclipsing the rest of the 
world. You could be 
working with some of the 
sharpest scientific minds 
in the areas of artificial 
intelligence, communi­
cations, life sciences, 
educational technology,
I environmental and 
\ underwater acoustics, 
simulation and training 
systems, and a host of 
others.
So if you're an E.E.,
C.S., Applied Math or 
Physical Sciences Graduate 
(or soon to be one), we'd 
like a chance to tell you 
where to go. We are an 
Equal Opportunity 
Employer M/F/V/H.
bb3 MtiRetaRe1Ap 8EURe:RetaA.
A Subsidiary of Bolt Beranek and Newman Inc.
Come to our interview 
at CMU on October 1st.
”Pnf FasfUtmtnW
&tL HEPA
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1987 
SKIBO BALLROOM, 10:00 AM -4:00 PM
UNDERGRADUATES AND GRADUATES...
Mark your calendars and prepare your resumes!!!
Here is a unique opportunity to talk to recruiters from over thirty leading Pittsburgh high 
technology companies involved in areas such as:
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE/ INDUSTRY AUTOMATION/ 
BIOMEDICAL/ MEDIC A LTECHNOLOGY/ COMPUTER 
SOFTWARE/ ADVANCED MATERIALS/ ELECTRICAL/ 
MECHANICAU INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING/ COMPUTER 
INTEGRATED MANUFACTURING/ ELECTRONIC 
COMPONENTS/ MATERIALS PROCESSING/ ROBOTICS COMPUTER HARDWARE/ TECHNICAL WRITING
-Sponsored by the Pittsburgh High Technology Council 
and Carnegie Mellon university. Office of Career and Placement.

---------------------------------------------------

September 15,1987—The Tartan—Page 17
Y)
Ci
Baseball Battles 
Butler Comm.
By PERRY PIERCE
FEATEU RTESSaA PTaA
The baseball Tartans ended the second 
week of their 1987 fall season with a 
much brighter outlook than week one. 
With the benefit of more practice, the 
Tartans gave Butler Community Col­
lege a tough game, but came out 15-6 
losers Friday at Mellon Park. The loss 
combined with a loss earlier to Beaver 
Community College, dropped them to 
0-4 on the season.
The Butler Pioneers scored four runs in 
the first inning on three solid hits, and 
some very smart baserunning. Three 
Pioneer stolen bases accounted for two 
of the four runs they scored in that in­
ning. The success of the Pioneer run­
ning game can well be attributed to their 
head coach, John Stuper. Coach Stuper 
has a name that is very well chronichled 
in recent baseball history. In 1982, 
Stuper was one of the starting pitchers 
for the world champion St. Louis Cardi­
nals.
The Tartans answered back quickly, 
they showed that they were not going to 
let the Pioneers run all over them. So­
phomore Matt Pampena started off the 
inning with a single, and moved to sec­
ond on an error. Bruce Nibbelink kept 
the threat going with a single, but Perry 
Pierce was caught drifting too far off 
second. The next batter, senior Pat 
Carey, doubled down the third base line, 
but Nibbelink was cut down at third on 
a bang-bang play to end the Tartan at­
tack.
The Pioneers added five more runs 
over the next four innings, taking a 9-1 
lead before the Tartans could strike back 
in the bottom of the fifth. The inning 
started innocently enough, as the Pio­
neers walked leadoff hitter Tom Cow- 
lam. Paul Masalsky next reached first 
on a fielder’s choice that erased Cow- 
lam. Masalsky then moved to second 
when the Tartan pitcher, senior Kevin 
Murtha, bounced out second to first. 
The inning was kept alive when John 
Tafe reached on an error that scored 
Masalsky. The next batter, junior Perry 
Pierce, lined a double down the right 
centerfield alley, but Tafe was gunned 
down by a sharp relay throw that ended 
the inning.
Carnegie Mellon plated one run in the 
sixth and two in the seventh. The run in 
the sixth was plated on a double by 
Carey, and a single by junior outfielder 
Daryl Marvin. In the seventh, singles by 
Masalsky and Nibbelink, and a double 
by Tafe scored two. The Tartans could 
only manage one more run in the eighth 
as a double by Masalsky to the right 
centerfield power alley scored Marvin. 
The Tartans still need lots of work, but 
continue to have a positive outlook. “I 
wasn’t sure whether or not to replace the 
pitcher or the scorer today. The pitcher 
was getting tired because he threw 140 
pitches, but the scorer had writer’s 
cramp from filling in all their runs,” 
commented Tartan Head Coach Bill 
Allen. “We will have the next week off 
to do a lot of team fundamentals like 
cutoffs, and other things that every team 
does differently.”
This week the Tartans will have work­
outs all week to prepare for Saturday’s 
contest against Steubenville, Ohio. The 
Tartans also have a double header 
scheduled against LaRoche College at 
Mellon Park Sunday. Both games this 
weekend are scheduled for 1:00 pm 
starts.
Sophomore Linebacker David Skinner: 
PHI Player of the Game in First Start
By NEIL GREENBLUM
FEATEU GtUTAPLpTPUn NdPTtA 
With no returning starters and only one 
player older than a sophomore, the Tartans 
were very concerned about their linebacking 
corps. But after Saturday’s 7-7 tie with Al­
legheny, linebacker David Skinner has shifted 
some of that concern to excitement.
WRCT and The Tartan named Skinner the 
first ever Panther Hollow Inn (PHI) Player of 
the Game for-his outstanding performance 
Saturday. For the sophomore from Wil­
liamsport, the Allegheny game marked 
Skinner’s first start as a Tartan.
Skinner said he felt some pressure, but 
Saturday’s game has eased the pressure some­
what. “I was pretty excited about being able to 
start. Linebacker is an important position in 
our defense. We [Skinner and senior Rick 
LaValle, the other starter at linebacker] are 
expected to make most of the tackles. We’re 
involved in a lot of the action, and we have to 
make the plays.”
Allegheny tailback Dave Brown gave the 
Tartans fits Saturday, rushing for 114 yards 
and a touchdown. Carnegie Mellon Head 
Coach Rich Lackner was disappointed the 
Gators were able to establish the ground game, 
and Skinner was too. “We were very agres- 
sive, but we had some breakdowns,” he re­
marked. “Hopefully we’ll give up less yard­
age next week.”
The Tartans host Case Western Reserve this 
Saturday at Tech Field.
The 5’ 11", 190 lb. Skinner played part-time 
in 1986 as a freshman, recording 14 tackles as
Runners Continue 
Winning Ways
By STEWART LEVINE
FEATEU R"tATe NdPTtA 
The men’s cross-country Tartans continue 
on their quest for 100 consecutive victories. 
They made another step towards that goal by 
picking up five dual meet victories on Satur­
day by defeating Duquesne, Bethany, Thiel, 
Grove City, and West Liberty at Bethany. The 
victories make the squad 7-0 for the season, 
and 3-0 in the President’s Athletic Confer­
ence.
Senior Keith Stopen led all comers across the 
finish line by running the course in 28:05 min­
utes. He was followed by several other Tartan 
runners as Carnegie Mellon shut out 
Duquesne, Bethany, and Thiel by perfect 15- 
50 scores. The Tartans performed almost as 
well against Grove City and West Liberty by 
defeating them 15-49 and 17-45 respectively. 
The victories over Duquesne and West Liberty 
were the second over each in consecutive 
weeks.
The women’s cross-country team performed 
almost as well as the men. Led by freshman 
Jessica Caplan, whose time of 25:42 was good 
enough for third place overall, the Lady Tar­
tans defeated Bethany, Duquesne, Thiel, and 
Grove City. The victories upped the Lady 
Tartans’ record to 5-1, 3-0 in the PAC.
The Lady Tartans defeated Duquesne for the 
second week in a row by a perfect score of 15- 
50 and blanked Thiel and Bethany by the same 
score as well. Grove City also fell to Carnegie 
Mellon 20-35.
The two teams will be traveling in different 
directions this weekend. Both will be compet­
ing in their first invitational tournaments of the 
season.
The men travel to the Indiana Invitational. 
Last year in a field that included schools such 
as Pittsburgh, Ohio U, and Old Dominion, the 
Tartans placed sixth overall and first among 
Div. Ill schools. The women will head north 
to Meadville for the Allegheny Invitational 
where they finished seventh last year against a 
field including UAA schools Rochester and 
Case Western Reserve.
David Skinner (2nd from left) started his first 
of the Game.
an outside linebacker in the Tartans’ 4-3 
alignment. He says he’$ adjusted well to the 
transition inside. “It’s a lot more active in the 
middle, and I have less pass coverage respon­
sibility. I’m strongerdefensing the run,” Skin­
ner remarked.
Recruited by IUP, Slippery Rock, Get­
tysburg and the Gators, Skinner was an honor­
able mention all-Pennsylvania pick his senior 
year at undefeated Williamsport HS. The 
soon-to-be information systems major chose 
Carnegie Mellon for academics, its urban
Sports Fans!
The fall sports have gone into full 
swing. The football team takes on 
UAA Rival Case Western on Disk­
ette Day, soccer plays its first game 
within 300 miles of Pittsburgh, and 
the rugby club starts its season. 
PLUS, learn what will happen to 
Tech Field and the 1M Field. Next 
week in the sports pages of the 
Tartan.
From Brandéis to Bethany, John 
Carroll to John Hopkins, no one 
covers the Tartans like the Tartan!
Field Hockey Falls 
To Slippery Rock
By SHAFI KHAN
FEATEU RTESSaA PTaA
The women’s field hockey team (0-1-1) suf­
fered its first loss of the season last Thursday 
against a strong Slippery Rock team by the 
score of 4-0. Again, the defense put on a fine 
effort, but it couldn’t stop all of the shots. 
Slippery Rock had twenty shots on goal, while 
the Lady Tartans could only manage seven. 
Head Coach Jan McDowell felt that the of­
fense didn’t play as well as it could have, but 
that as a whole, the team played well. She 
continued to state that the Lady Tartans were 
playing a much better team, but the squad had 
performed well under the circumstances.
Sweepers Sue Moll and Aelan Tierney 
played excellent defense, holding their posi­
tions nicely against some of the longer Slip­
pery Rock drives. Coach McDowell also felt 
that freshman left halfback Jen Saffren played 
a good game as well.
The Lady Tartans continue the season tomor­
row against PAC rival Hiram on Tech Field at 
4:00 pm.
photo by Andy Gillespie
game in grand style, being named PHI Player
location, and the Tartans’ strong football pro­
gram.
iEUTfaA ”tmmt. IUU fEe Aa"mEsad RktEm Ee 
Tfa "mEWaA tS Tfa nEla e"tUetA TfPe eaEetU— 
i”I .Pmm E.EAd E '( nPST saATPSPsETa, nttd StA 
EUWTfPUn tU Tfa laUp, Tt aEsf .aakze .PUUaA—
i”I Pe mtsETad VpeT traA Tfa HtALae graUpa 
-APdna, Lamt. hastAd “AEraWEAd—
CRNNAPitNN G1Ep I:AEAe
By NATALIE HAWRYLUK
FEATEU RTESS.APTaA 
Intensity-according to the Random House 
Dictionary it means “energy, strength, con­
centration, vehemence, etc... as of activity 
thought or feeling.” All of these and more 
were evident Friday afternoon as the women’s 
volleyball team defeated the Lady Falcons of 
Fairmont St. 15-7,15-10 in the opening round 
of the Carnegie Mellon Volleyball Tourna­
ment.
The Lady Tartans dominated the first game 
with consistent service and a good combina­
tion of spikes and dinks. Monica Zalevsky and 
Kris Loh led the team’s spiking attack, with 
Marianne Smith doing most of the seting. The 
Falcons had trouble starting off-the score was 
13-3 in favor of Carnegie Mellon before Fair­
mont was able to get into the game.
However, once they did get started, the Fal­
cons were something to contend with indeed. 
The score was tied 3-3 when the Falcons 
picked up seven straight points through a 
combination of good play and Tartan miscues. 
Not be daunted, behind the serving of Chris 
Mauro, Zalevsky, and Nicole Hanak, the Lady 
Tartans were able to catch up and pull ahead. 
The lead bounced back and forth several times 
before Carnegie Mellon finally won. CMU 
capitalized on the lack of communication and 
fatigue of the Lady Falcons.
On the whole, the Lady Tartans display the 
intensity and desire of a team that wants to win. 
They communicate well and effectively cover 
the court both offensively and defensively, 
and they don’t give up easily.
Carlow College ended up winning the toffr- 
ment on Saturday afternoon with a victory 
over Waynesburg 2-0. Carlow made it into the 
finals with a victory over Allegheny 2-1, while 
Waynesburg defeated Kenyon 2-0 in its semi­
final match.
The Lady Tartans continue their season to­
night at St. Vincent with matches against St. 
Vincent and Waynesburg. Their next home 
game will be Saturday afternoon against Cali­
fornia U of Pa at 12:00 pm in the SkiboGym.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18—The Tartan—September 15,1987
Tartan NFL Preview: Steelers Still Rebuilding
By DAVID BRILL
FEATEU RTESS.APTaA
AFC East
1a. NUnmEUd iETAPtTeJ The defending A.F.C. 
East winners have bolstered their running at­
tack by acquiring two new offensive linemen 
and a blocking back for Craig James. With 
Tony Eason hurt, Steve Grogan will probably 
start a few games. But this will be no let down 
as the veteran QB is a more than an ample 
backup. On defense, although a little weak at 
linebackers, the Pats have a very strong secon­
dary and who can forget Andre Tippet. With a 
good mix of run and pass, the Pats will finish 
first in the East.
1a. 9tAk &aTeJ Inconsistency and injuries are 
two big questions the Jets will have to answer. 
Can they play consistent football for 16 
weeks? Although QB Ken O’Brian played 
poorly the last part of the year, with WR 
Wesley Walker and A1 Toon (both 1,000 yard 
receivers) and surehanded TE Mickey Shuler, 
their passing attack ranks among the top in the 
NFL. With the addition of RB Roger Vick to 
complement Freeman McNeil, they will be 
sure to mix up many defenses. On defense they 
are a horror story. With an exploited secon­
dary and no pass rush due to injuries to All- 
Pros Joe Klecko and Lance Mehl, the Jets are 
vulnerable. Although the Jets won’t be in any 
defense struggles, they’ll do well enough to 
finish second and maybe a wild-card berth.
oPElP btm"fPUeJ With the best pass offense in 
the league, they only finished 8-8. Their de­
fense was awful last year hurt by a soft pass 
rush and poor pass coverage. They got help on 
the defensive line by picking 2 defensive line­
men in their first 2 picks. Overall a strong 
offense with some help on defense, the Dol­
phins should improve but not enough to over­
take the Jets.
-pSSEmt -PmmeJ Newcomer QB Jim Kelly has 
been a big help to a bad club. After a 4-12 year, 
you might not think there was an improve­
ment, but the Bills are now a threat offen­
sively. On defense they’re very soft and the 
draft should help. With such a tough division 
the Bills have no chance of moving up this 
year.
IUdPEUE"tmPe GtmTeJ The Colts have always 
been the perennial fixture in last place and this 
year will be no exception. Although QB Gary 
Hogeboom will improve the offensive, the 
defense is in a sorry state. It will be another 
year of sorrow in Indianapolis.
AFC Central
GmaramEUd -At.UeJ They were a strong 
enough team last year to go to the AFC Finals 
where they lost in OT to the Broncos. The 
danced run and pass offense led by QB 
i emie Kosar keeps defenses off guard. This 
rong team with few changes will repeat as 
Central Division champs.
­ PUsPUUETP -aUnEmeJ After just missing the 
playoffs, the Bengals have to concentrate on 
defense. With the best overall offense in the 
league, the Bengals hope that Sam Wyche’s 
gimmicks can give the defense enough of a 
cushion to hold on to. With inexperienced 
rookies in the secondary, they will tend to give 
up the big play. The Bengals will stay on par 
but won’t catch up to the Browns.
iPTTeLpAnf RTaamaAeJ Their two big problems 
last year—defense and at quarterback were the 
main reasons for the Steelers demise. But with 
the selection of 2 comerbacks and 1 safety in 
the draft, the defense could be on the rise, if
they can come to terms with hold-out first 
round pick Ron Woodson. Pittsburgh needs to 
replace Mark Malone to get the offense mov­
ing, until then they’ll finish just ahead of the 
Oilers.
”tpeTtU 2PmaAeJ The same thing as always— 
lots of talent, but can’t play together. With the 
defense shored up from the draft they look 
better, but only time will tell. They need a big 
year from RB Mike Rozier. Also still didn’t 
sign first round draft pick Alonzo Highsmith. 
will finish a game behind the Steelers in last.
AFC West
baUraA -AtUsteJ The defending AFC Cham­
pion will at least repeat as AFC West Champs. 
A strong nucleus on offense with QB John 
Elway, and WR Vance Johnson and Mark 
Jackson make big play, and the impressive 
play of TE Orson Mobley is another weapon 
Elway. Even though their pass rush needs
from the AFC West title.
5EUeEe GPTW GfPaSeJ Last year they played with 
virtually no offense and made the playoffs 
only to get blown out by the Jets. Their running 
game, which finished close to dead last year 
will be improved by the signing of Temple’s 
RB Paul Palmer. However, playing in the 
tough AFC West will scalp the Chiefs.
NFC East
1—9— “PEUTeJ The defending Super Bowl 
Champs look like they’re headed back to the 
big game. Bulking-up their offensive with 
their first round draft pick of Michigan State 
Mark Ingram. This year with a healthy core of 
wide receivers and RB Joe Morris the offense 
will be even that much tougher to stop. On 
defense headed by LB Lawrence Taylor who 
set a N.F.C. record with 20.5 sacks the Giants 
will be just as tough as last year. Their only 
challenge will be their interdivisional rivals,
The Tartan's Picks
AFC EASTNFC EAST
New England PatriotsN.Y. Giants
New York JetsWashington Redskins
Miami DolphinsPhiladelphia Eagles
Buffalo BillsDallas Cowboys
Indianapolis ColtsSt. Louis Cardinals-
AFC CENTRALNFCCENTRAL
Cleveland BrownsChicago Bears
Cincinnati BengalsMinnesota Vikings
Pittsburgh SteelersGreen Bay Packers
Houston OilersTampa Bay Buccaneers
Detroit Lions *
AFC WEST
Denver BroncosNFC WEST
Seattle SeahawksL.A. Rams
L.A. RaidersSan Fransisco Forty-Niners
San Diego ChargersNew Orleans Saints
Kansas City ChiefsAtlanta Falcons
Wild Cards: Jets, Seahawks, Redskins, and Forty-Niners
NFC Champs: Giants
AFC Champs: Seahawks
Superbowl XXII Champs: Giants
improvement, they’re a strong enough team to 
overcome this weakness and finish first.
RaETTma RaEfE.keJ After narrowly missing the 
playoffs last year because of tiebreakers the 
Seahawks will only improve. Coming off a 
five game winning streak to end the season, 
they’ll be on the winning track. Also, the 
celebrated signing of LB Brian Bosworth also 
improves a defense that sometimes gave up the 
big play. Suring up on defense helps, but not 
enough to catch the Broncos.
xg— hEPdaAeJ Last year L.A. was killed by a 
lack of quality at quarterback position. Also an 
injury to RB Marcus Allen didn’t help. But in 
the off season the acquiring of WR James 
Lofton and RB Bo Jackson of the Kansas City 
Royals has bolstered their offense. Their de­
fense led by DE Howie Long is tough and 
should be able to put them third in the tough 
AFC West.
REU bPant GfEAnaAeJ Always known for a 
potent offense, the Chargers now have a good 
nucleus of players on defense. The fixtures of 
Air Coryell, led by QB Dan Forts, WR Wes 
Chandler, Trumaine Johnson and TE Kellen 
Winslow are all back. Picking up LB Chip 
Banks from Cleveland will also help sure up 
the defense. This is an improving team that 
will need another year before challenging
the Redskins.
7EefPUnTtU hadekPUeJ Last year they finished 
12-4 and losing to the Giants three times, 
including in the title game. Awesome offen­
sively with QB Jay Schroeder and All-pro WR 
Art Monk and Gary Clark. Also RBs George 
Rodgers and Kelvin Bryant are terrors in the 
backfield. The Redskins’ main problem lies in 
the secondary, which they addressed by pick­
ing DB Brian Davis from Nebraska. A tough 
team assured a wild-card spot behind the 
Giants.
ifPmEdam"fPE NEnmaeJ With Buddy Ryan at the 
helm you can be assured of a tough defense 
and a team ready to play. On offense, QB 
Randall Cunningham has to play consistently 
and the offensive line has to be sured up after 
giving up a league-breaking 104 sacks.
bEmmEe Gt.LtWeJ With the loss of WR Mike 
Sherrard in the preseason the Cowboys are 
hard-pressed for receivers. After waiving 
Tony Hill, because he was overweight, QB 
Danny White only has TE Doug Cosbie as a 
steady receiver. Even though they have Her- 
schel Walker and Tony Dorsett in the back­
field, they won’t be enough to carry the team.
RT— xtpPe GEAdPUEmeJ They drafted a QB in the 
first round which was a mistake, with a revital­
ized QB in Neil Lomax. Kelly Stouffer now 
remains unsigned and will probably be sent to 
another quarterback hungry team like the 
Raiders. St. Louis is old on offense and young 
on defense. A team which has been at the 
bottom will remain with no new blood to htip 
the team improve.
NFC Central
GfPsEnt -aEAeJ With the top rated defense in 
the NFL, the Bears will most certainly repeat 
the Central Division Champs. The status of 
QB Jim McMahon is uncertain since he was 
put on the disabled list. The offense is onry 
complicated with their first round draft pick 
being QB Jim Harbaugh. Still a very tough 
team.
oPUUaetTE ?PkPUneJ Bolstered by first round 
draft pick Penn State RB D.J. Dozier on of­
fense the Viking rank with the best in the NFL. 
Their problem lies on defense, although the 
linebackers are good, the secondary is weaK. 
This is what will stop them from seriously 
contending the Bears for the central title.
“AaaU -EW hEskaAeJ Inexperience hurt the 
Packers badly with no protection for QB 
Randy Wright—he was practically helpless. 
The Packers bolstered their running game with 
Brent Full wood, a quality RB. On defense the 
Packers were adequate but hurt by the loss 
CB Mousy Cade on criminal charges. They 
need another year to mesh.
FEl"E -EW -pssEUaaAeJ Help is on the hori­
zon, in the coming of Miami QB Vinny Tes- 
taverde. The Bucs, who were last in practically 
everything, hope Testaverde will be the spark 
to get them out of the cellar. Unfortunately for 
Tampa Bay and new Head Coach Ray Perkins 
they still have a long way to go.
baTAtPT xPtUeJ After a lackluster 5-11 season, 
the Lions are banking on QB Chuck Long to 
get them to at least .500. Unfortunately Detroit 
on offense doesn’t have the firepower to play 
with interconference rivals, the Bears and the 
Vikings. With a slightly improved Tampa 
Bay, the Lions will finish fifth.
NFC West
xte gUnamae hEleJ After acquiring QB Jim 
Everett from Houston Their chances im­
proved immensely. With RB Eric Dickerson 
and Everett have the balanced offense needed 
to win the division. With a strong defense and 
offense beyond handoffs to Dickerson, the 
Rams will be very tough to beat. P
continued on page 16
Highland Park -Wellesley 
Rd. a charming English 
Brick on Private Tree- lined cul-de-sac. A great 
family street in the 
Highland Park area and 
only minutes to the Park.
Formal LR and DR, Equip Kit & Breakfast ran. 
Master BR w/ Bath, plus 3 add. Bra w/ 2 Bath 
Finished gameroom, 2 car integral gar, ill 
newer mechanics.
A Superb residence on a lovely street. $109, >0. 
Jackie Wise, Howard Hanna Co. 683-5800
QuidNunc Productions
"AaeaUTe
The Sketchbook 
Art Show
September 26 
Skibo Hall

---------------------------------------------------

September 15,1987—The Tartan—Page 19
Tartan Scoreboard
«
Tartan Sports Calendar
September 15:
September 16: 
September 17: 
September 18: 
September 19:
September 20: 
September 21: 
September 22:
Volleyball at St. Vincent, Waynesburg, 7:00 pm
Sportsline on WRCT-FM (88.3), 8:30 pm
Special Guests: Kevin Jung and Alan Mayr
Field Hockey vs Hiram at Tech Field, 4:00 pm
Women’s Tennis vs California U of Pa at Tech Courts, 3:00 pm
Soccer vs John Carroll at Tech Field, 3:30 pm
Football vs Case Western Reserve at Tech Field, 1:30 pm
This game may be heard on WRCT-FM 88.3
Men’s Cross-Country at Indiana U of Pa, 11:00 am
Women’s Cross-Country at Allegheny, 11:00 am
Field Hockey at Chatham, 1:00 pm
Women’s Tennis vs Hiram at Tech Courts, 1:00 pm
Baseball at Steubenville, 1:00 pm
Baseball vs LaRoche at Mellon Park, 1:00 pm
Volleyball at Grove City, Allegheny, 6:00 pm
Women’s Tennis at Grove City, 2:00 pm
Field Hockey at Bethany, 4:00 pm
The IM Report
Tartan Scores
Football
Carnegie Mellon 7, Allegheny 7 
Alabama 24, Penn St. 13 
Pittsburgh 34, N.C. State 0 
Ohio St. 24, West Virginia 13 
P Bethany 17, Capital 17 
Grove City 20, Duquesne 0 
Thiel 11, Oberlin 8 
Wash. & Jeff 24, Catholic U. 7 
Hiram 30, Case Western Reserve 7 
John Carroll 10, Baldwin-Wallace 3
Johns Hopkins 19, St. Peter’s 6
Men’s Cross-Country
Carnegie Mellon 15, Duquesne 50 
Carnegie Mellon 15, Bethany 50 
Carnegie Mellon 15, Thiel 50 
Carnegie Mellon 15, Grove City 49 
Carnegie Mellon 17, West Liberty 45
Women’s Cross Country
IM NEWS
President - Rob Schlackman x2750 
Vice President - Mike Gryzwinski 681-2826 
Secretary - Chris Young x4552 
Women's Pres. - Stephanie Janczak x4229 
Next IM Board meeting - September 17,1 pm 
All organization representatives requested to 
attend
The officials club is still taking people for 
football, soccer and volleyball. All officials 
are paid $4.00 per game worked.
CO-REC VOLLEYBALL 
Commissioner - Mike Grzy winski 681 -2826 
Play begins this week in all leagues 
Schedules are now available
FACULTY/STAFF DOUBLES TENNIS 
Entries due September 17 
All matches to be played between 11:30 am 
and 1:30 pm starting September 21
Carnegie Mellon 15, Bethany 50 
Carnegie Mellon 15, Duquesne 50 
Carnegie Mellon 15, Thiel 50 
Carnegie Mellon 20, Grove City 35
Field Hockey
Slippery Rock 4, Carnegie Mellon 0 
Volleyball
Carnegie Mellon 2, Fairmont St. 0
WATER POLO
Commissioner - Hal Levine x5981 
Entries Due September 17
CHESS
Commissioner - Matt Murbach 
Entries Due September 24
GOLF
Commissioner - Brian Wilson x5448 
Both team and individual competition 
Scheduled for September 27 at Schenley 
Golf Course starting at 12:00 pm 
Green’s Fees - $4.00
Club rental available at clubhouse for $5.0(
CROSS-COUNTRY 
Commissioner - Chris Young x4552 
Scheduled for October 1,4:30 pm in Schen 
ley Park
Course length is 1.9 miles (3k)
Team and individual competition
All entries for intramural competition must be 
turned in by 4:30 pm on the day listed above tc 
the Intramural Office in Gym 101.
For further information on any of the above, 
contact the sport commissioners or Mike 
Mastroianni or E. J. Birdy at x2214
Women's X-Country (9/5)
Soccer Tartans Beat Weather and NYU
)
By STEWART LEVINE
FEATEU R"tATe NdPTtA 
For the second week in a row, the soccer 
Tartans had traveled by air to meet a Univer­
sity Athletic Association opponent. This time 
though, the Tartans almost didn’t get to play. 
The soccer squad had went to New York to 
meet New York University in their first ever 
fsoccer match, but along with their bags and 
spikes, the Tartans brought the Pittsburgh 
weather with them.
Heavy rains in the New York area made the 
field at Staten Island College, where the Vio­
lets plays their soccer matches, almost unplay­
able. In fact, the three officials who were there 
felt that the field was unplayable and refused to 
allow the two teams to take the field. This 
»decision did not sit well with the NYU repre­
sentatives at the games who told the referees to 
either let the two teams play or to go home. 
The officials at that point left, and as soon as 
new referees where found, the game began.
It was a good thing that for the Tartans that 
they were able to play. It took both teams time 
to find their footing on the field, but with 25
minutes gone in the first half, freshman back 
Scott May took a pass from another freshman, 
midfielder Chris Kasabach and converted it 
into his first goal as a Tartan.
The score stayed the same until fifteen min­
utes into the second half when senior co­
captain Kevin Jung scored his second goal in 
as many games on a free kick from about 
twenty-five yards out. The Tartans got a third 
goal with fifteen minutes left under freak cir­
cumstances. Kasabach chipped a shot over the 
NYU goalie’s head which was tipped away by 
another Violet defender’s hand. On the ensu­
ing penalty kick, sophomore Eddie Park 
scored to make the final score 3-0.
With the treacherous conditions, shots were 
few and far between. The Tartan defense 
capitalized on this, holding NYU to one shot. 
Under these circumstances, the Tartans tried 
out a new goalie. Starter John Selmer played 
the first eighty minutes of the match. How­
ever, the last ten minutes were played by Glen 
Hoogerwerf, who until last week had been a 
kicker on the football Tartans.
Hoogerwerf had been an all-state goalie at his
high school in Everett, Wash., but had never 
gone out for the soccer team until last week 
when he approached Head Coach Nick Gaudi- 
oso and asked him for a tryout. It remains to be 
seen whether Hoogerwerf will challenge 
Selmer for the starter’s role.
In comments right after the game, Coach 
Gaudioso was pleased with the results. “It was 
definitely an improvement over the other two 
games,” he said. He also noted that despite the 
game being piaye d in New York, a large Car­
negie Mellon contingent was out cheering the 
Tartans on. Unlike most varsity squads, a 
large portion of the soccer Tartans hail from 
the New York area, and they had about 40 
friends and family members cheering them on.
The soccer team plays its first home game 
this Friday on Tech Field at 3:30 pm vs. 
President’s Athletic Conference rival John 
Carroll.
IKathy MallisW. Lib.17:17
2Lisa KovackW. Lib17:26
3Andrea Brammer W. Lib17:58
4Kristin BergardCMU18:08
5Sue JohnsonCMU18:16
6Cathy Be scareW. Lib18:38
7Pat FallCMU18:39
8Jessica CaplanCMU19:04
9Cathy HoffmanDuq.19:17
10Francesca Crannell
CMU19:32
Inquiring Minds Really 
Don't Give A Damn...
...learn why each week in 
the Op/Ed pages of The 
Tartan where they're ex­
ploring the campus and 
the world.
CLOTHING MENANO YOUNG MiN SINCE 19*ê
London Dock
Our new collections have arrived from 
Girbcud, Edwin, Jimmy'Z, Polo, 
Alexander Julian, and Gotcha.
S842 Forbes Avenue Fox Chapel Plaza
Squirrel Hill Freeport & Fox Chapel Roads
421-5710 781-0811
Cimini Hair Design
2 Blocks from CMU
406 South Craig St. Oakland 
Phone: 621-HAIR
HAIR CUT
10 BUCKS!!
7Emk4PUe 7amstla

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan
»PORT
VARSITY• IM REPORT • SPORTS FEATURES
Tartans Wrestle Gators to 7-7 Tie
Eight Game Victory Streak 
Against Allegheny Snapped
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
FEATEU GtUTAPLpTPUn NdPTtA 
The Carnegie Mellon football team has al­
ways lived and died with the run.
Saturday, they died with the run, battling the 
Allegheny Gators to a 7-7 tie. Tartan rushers 
had only 76 yards total, a figure singularly 
exceeded by Gator David Brown, who 
rambled for 114 yards on his own.
It was the Tartan defense that helped save the 
day. Although they yielded 307 yards, their 
“bend but not break” philosophy stood up 
under pressure as they were consistent big- 
play winners. The return of the 5 -2 may or may 
not have helped, but it was the defense that 
kept Carnegie Mellon in the game. Heartening 
was the play of the three starting sophomores, 
linebackers Jim Balouris and David Skinner, 
and nose guard Jason Dowdy.
Younger players had a key part in the running 
game also. While leaving starter Chris Hansen 
in the fullback spot, CMU coach Lackner 
rotated his halfbacks in 3 separate pairs, 
changing several times a series. Sophomores 
Dean Garofola and Rob Patterson were pen­
cilled in as the starters, but the other units of 
Heiser and Chris Trumble, and freshmen Scott 
Bamyak and Robert Schmitt, saw just as much 
playing time.
Eventually Hansen came out with an injury, 
and backup fullbacks Eric Polkis and Fran 
Bellante added to the number of different 
backs in the game. The rotation seemed to 
make it difficult for the backs to get comfort­
able, and the offense seemed unable to estab­
lish a rhythm. Perhaps this was aggravated by 
opening day jitters.
Another reason the ground game reported 
such anemic figures is the numerous penalties 
incurred by Tartans, 60 yards worth in all. 
“Our big plays were all taken away by penal­
ties,” noted senior halfback Bill Heiser. Once 
penalized into long yardage situations, the 
Tartans were forced to the air, giving newly 
returned quarterback Mike Hensel a workout. 
While Hensel passed for 207 yards, he com­
pleted only 16 of 34 attempts. The fifth-year 
senior was inconsistent, throwing some passes 
well but often overthrowing receivers.
It was not a well-thrown pass that gave Car­
negie Mellon their only score of the day. 
Starting in Allegheny territory at the 49, the 
Tartans went to the air on the fourth play of the 
drive, reaching the 20 on a 17 yard reception 
by Marty Stovar, whose 66 yards was tops 
among Tartan recievers. After a sack and 
another well placed toss to Joe Mancuso, 
Hensel launched a “fly ball” that Scott Bam­
yak fielded between two defenders in the end 
zone for a TD. Junior Jim Kelly’s point after 
gave CMU a 7-0 lead.
Allegheny began their scoring drive in the 
third quarter. The Gators got deep into Tartan 
territory on a 47-yard run by David Brown. 
Once there, the defense stiffened, and ap­
peared to have Allegheny 4th down and 3 
yards to go at the nine yard line. But a personal 
foul gave the Gators new life, and two more 
rushes by Brown got the touchdown to set up 
the tie.
Both CMU and Allegheny squandered prime 
scoring opportunities. On their first posession 
of the day, the Tartans drove from their own 27 
yard line to the Gator 14, propelled mainly by 
two passes totalling 39 yards to freshman 
halfback Robert Schmitt. Stuck in a 4th down 
and 7 situation, head coach Rich Lackner 
eschewed his field goal unit and decided to go 
for the first down. Hensel’s pass was incom­
plete and Allegheny gained possession.
Later in the first quarter, Allegheny QB John 
Logue launched a 44-yard pass to Doug Can- 
setting up a 26-yard field goal attempt for 
kicker Sean Ward. But Ward missed the chip 
shot from the left hash, preserving the score­
less tie.
While the Gators seemed satisfied with the 
tie, the Tartans were clearly disappointed not 
coming away wiu. a victory. They haven't lost 
to Allegheny since 1976.
But Allegheny is not the same team CMU 
pummelled 36-7 in last year’s opener. An 
improved and veteran defense ied by All- 
America nose guard Mike Parker plus a strong 
secondary made the Gators a tough nut to 
crack for the Tartan offense. Overall, the team 
is much more mature, and while it does lack 
offensive sparkle, Allegheny is expected to 
contend for the North Coast Athletic Confer­
ence championship.
Thistles and Thorns: The tie gives the Tar­
tans a 13-5-1 mark in the series with Al­
legheny, a rivalry forced to end by CMU’s 
move into the University Athletic 
Association...Hensel’s 207 yards propelled 
him over the 3000 career passing yard mark, 
third on the Carnegie Mellon all-time list...Joe 
Mancuso’s 12-yard reception, setting up the 
Tartans’ first score, was his first varsity recep­
tion. Mancuso, a senior, was recruited out of 
the IM leagues two years ago...Freshmen half­
backs Scott Bamyak and Robert Schmitt made 
a spash in their first collegiate game. Schmitt 
caught two passes for 29 yards, while Bamyak 
flagged one for 22 and a TD.
Next Week: The Case Western Reserve 
Spartans will roll into town to face Carnegie 
Mellon this Saturday at Tech Field. Case is 0-
1, reeling from a 30-7 drubbing at the hands of 
the Hiram Terriers. While Case is certainly 
weaker than last year, the Spartans have al­
ways executed well and play the Tartans 
tough, defeating them 21-14 in 1986.
To do well, Carnegie Mellon must rees­
tablish the balance between the running and 
passing games. Mike Hensel is at his best 
when he has the opportunity, but is not forced, 
to pass. One problem looming is the loss of 
Chris Hansen, expected to be a bulwark of the 
running game, who is doubtful on Saturday 
due to a knee injury.
Serious hackers are advised to come early on 
Saturday to take advantage of the special 
Diskette Day promotion. The first 300 Carne­
gie Mellon students presenting a valid ID at the 
game will receive a free Macintosh floppy 
disk, double-sided, double-density of course. 
Fans are free to use the disk for whatever 
purpose they wish.
Victories over Div. I Pitt and Duquesne!
Tennis Team Tops in Pittsburgh
By NEAL A. LEVENE
FEATEU RTESS.APTaA 
After only five formal team practices and 
more than three hours of hard fought tennis, 
the PAC Champion women’s tennis team 
needed an extraordinary finish by the #3 
doubles team of Amy Fibus (playing injured) 
and Tracy Boyd to win Friday’s away exhibi­
tion match against the University of Pitts­
burgh. This is the first time in six years that 
Division III Carnegie Mellon has beaten their 
Oakland Division I rivals the University of 
Pittsburgh. Since Pittsburgh is in neither the 
PAC nor the UAA, the two conferences in 
which CMU competes, this match was only 
exhibition.
The match started at 3:30 at Pitt. At about the 
same time a light drizzle began that continued 
throughout the match. The singles effort was 
marked by outstanding play by Andrea 
Benowitz at #2, Beth Cavanaugh at #3, and 
Amy Fibus at #4. Team captain Andrea 
Benowitz scored a decisive 6-4 6-2 victory 
against her opponent Carrie Deuera. Benow­
itz played markedly better than in her start on 
Wednesday against Duquesne University. 
According to coach Dave Lichtman, “I see a 
big improvement. She played a highly intelli­
gent concentrated match.”
After winning her first set at #3 singles 7-5,
Beth Cavanaugh, who did not lose one set 
against her PAC competitors last season, 
found herself behind 5-2 in the second se» 
According to Cavanaugh, “I was down 5-2 and 
I really did not want to play another set so I 
decided that I was going to have to come back 
now, so I did.” Cavanaugh went on to win the 
second set in the tie breaker 7-6 (7-5).
The last win in singles came from the new­
comer to the team senior Amy Fibus at #4 
singles. Fibus lost the first set to her opponent 
Stephanie Nelson in the tie breaker, 7-6 (7-2^ 
yet she rallied to win the second two sets 6-4, 
6-2. In the last set, particularly towards the 
end, Fibus totally shut her opponent down. 
Nelson just was not able to return Fibus’s 
serve.
After the singles matches, the score was tied 
3-3. The winning team would have to win two 
of the three doubles matches. Fibus had hurt 
her arm in her singles play; however, the Pitt’s
coach would not allow substitution for Fibus 
claiming a technicality. The official rules 
clearly allow substitution for injured players, 
yet, Fibus agreed to play the match anyway.
In a relatively short match at # 1 doubles Suzy 
Dottor (#1) and Beth Cavanaugh (#3) beat 
their opponents Tracy Feltinoff (#1) and
continued on page 16
photo by Andy Gillespie
Freshman Halfback Robert Schmitt runs for daylight after catching a Mike Hensel pass 
in the Tartans' 7-7 tie with Allegheny on Saturday.

---------------------------------------------------

IINSIDEI
COMEDY............... Page D3
Wherrett Room commedians wrong for 
a sober audience
JAZZ........................Page D3
B.Y.O.B.show in Mosque Ballroom to 
offer straightahead jazzENTERTAINMENT • COMICS • CALENDAR • CLASSIFIEDS
* Public Television’s Fall Season Offers Diverse Selections
In this bicentennial year of the U.S. 
Constitution, public television brings us 7a 
Tfa iat"ma, a four-part series which examines 
the impact of the Constitution on the average 
American today. The series shows that this 
200-year-old document still provides the 
framework for decisions made by ordinary 
citizens. Hosted by Peter Jennings and intro­
duced by President Reagan, the series focuses 
on such issues as the structure of government, 
rights of the accused, and freedom of speech.
Ffa IUSPUPTa ?tWEna takes viewers on a tour reaching the vastness of space and the intricacies of human physiology.
ing and educational, but also is a nice respite 
from the blahs of network prime-time.
SUNDAY
7DNb
Returning for a sixth season is 1ETpAa, a 
weekly survey of the wildlife we often forget 
surrounds us. Each show concentrates on a 
particular diversity. The season opener takes 
the audience to the arid Nevada desert, then to
> the steamy rain forests of the Amazon and 
analyzes the different flora and fauna of these 
regions. Future episodes will explore Ma­
dagascar and East Africa with host George 
Page.
Also returning is the celebrated oEeTaA"Pasa 
FfaETaA, for its 17th season on PBS, This fall 
we are brought “The Bretts,” a survey of the 
t backstage lives of a theatrical family of the 
London 20’s. The diversity of the characters
- from Shakesperian thespian grandparents to 
a convent-school sixteen-year-old daughter - 
and the talent of the cast, promises to make 
“The Bretts” a heartily dramatic nine-part 
series. Once again, Alistair Cooke will host 
this highly aclaimed PBS program.
? Beginning September 27, QED will be airing 
Ffa gdEle GfAtUPsmae, a thirteen-part series 
dramatizing four generation of a significant 
American family. The story begins with the 
romance of John and Abigail Adams (George 
Grizzard and Emmy winner Kathryn Walker). 
The series follow both the political and private 
lives of the entire Adams clan, including, of 
course, particular emphasis on the rocky ca-
• reer of John Quincy Adams (David Bimey and
one-time associates of kingpins such as A1 
Capone and Bugsy Siegel. GAPla, IUs—, is an 
eye-opening analysis of how the American 
Dream can be used and distorted.
Beginning October 11 th, Peter Ustinov takes 
viewers on a tour of the Soviet Union as only 
he could, in BeTPUtr)e hpeePEJ g iaAetUEm 
”PeTtAW— Not only are we treated to the man­
sions and museums, but also to the art of Rus­
sian greats such as Tolstoy and Dostoevsky. 
Also explored are the political legends of 
Russia's very private history - Peter the Great, 
Ivan the Terrible, Catherine the Great, and 
Lenin. Before Ustinov is finished he will take 
viewers to over 30 cities and across eleven 
time zones to meet the men, women, and 
children of the Soviet Union.
MONDAY
7DNb
A new eight part series beginning October 5th 
chronicles the history of what has become our 
society’s life blood. 2Pm examines much more 
than the chemistry of black gold; the history of 
oil is a saga of power, politics, and economics. 
The giants of the industry, particularly John D. 
Rockefeller, are profiled from the meek begin­
nings of their businesses to the building of 
their powerful enterprises.
For those interested in architecture and/or 
American history, public television 
broadcasts glaAPsE LW baePnU, premiering 
September 28th. The series explores famous 
architectural structures - such as Monticello, 
Fallingwater, and the Chrysler Building - as 
well as the common homes and shops found in
bach who exemplify the struggle of the Ger­
man people in dealing with their history and 
“forgotten little stories.” The story carries 
itself in a sort of “day in the life” format, but we 
are made blatantly aware of the fact that very 
few of the days of the Germans go by without 
opening painful wounds.
TUESDAY
7DNb
Ffa hPUn tS FApTf brings science down to 
human level, and puts it in layman’s terms. 
Host Philip Morrison gives familiar examples 
and simple explanations for an array of scien­
tific phenomena - from the principle of eye­
glasses, to the appearance of other-galactic
Ffa Gtl"maET “PmLaAT EUd RpmmPrEU returns 
this Fall with eight encore performances from 
previous seasons as well as three new operet­
tas created by the masters of the musical, 
Gilbert and Sullivan. New this season are 
“Iolanthe,” “HMS Pinafore,” and “Princess 
Ida.”
WEDNESDAY
7DNb
Premiering October 28th is a new twelve-part 
series which answers the questions we stopped 
asking when we were six: “Why is the sky 
blue?”, “What keeps birds in the air?” Ffa 
IUSPUPTa ?tWEna takes viewers on a tour reach­
ing the vastness of space and the intricacies of 
the human physiology. The series is a fasci­
nating look at life through the miracle of sci­
ence.
DN^
banAEeeP &pUPtA ”Pnf, first airing on Septem- 
continued on page D2
John Stockwell ami Rosanna Arquette star in Trying Times, a six-part corned) >ene>.
The TartanIVERSION
By ANGELA TAYLOR
bPraAePtUe FamarPePtU GAPTPs 
Have you watched WQED or WQEX lately? 
Yes, I hear you saying, “no channel I have to 
work that hard to tune in can be worth watch­
ing.” For most Americans, the words “public 
television” bring to mind images of RaeEla
O RTAaaT, the BBC, and ladies of the Kiwanis 
auxiliary answering phones during fund-rais­
ing telethons. But, public television is much 
more than that, and you may be surprised at 
what it can offer you. This Fall, Pittsburgh’s 
public TV stations are airing both national and 
local programming which is not only interest-
William Daniels). Ffa gdEle GfAtUPsmae 
offers not only an interesting family history, 
but a different perspective on American his­
tory. „
DN^
GAPla, IUs—, the result of four years of intense 
research, will be premiering in the Pittsburgh 
area on September 20th, at 8:00. The series 
offers a candid look at organized crime in 
America. You won’t find Geraldo Rivera 
behind these probing, chilling interviews and 
testimonials of assassins, informants, and
rainbows. In his own eccentric way, Morrison 
introduces viewers to the complex and deli­
cate tools used in a variety of sciences: tele­
scopes, microscopes, maps, and even medical 
apparatus.
A new four-part series, premiering October 
6th, chronicles the many advances made in 
medicine in our recent history'. Ffa ”aEmTf 
GaUTpAW looks at medical revolutions which 
have made some diseases practically extinct 
and others relatively harmless. Beginning 
with triumphs over the threats of yellow fever, 
measles, and polio, Ffa ”aEmTf GaUTpAW, 
explores the history of health and illness, and 
investigates new progress in areas such as 
AIDS research, organ transplants, artificial 
organs, and cancer treatment.
every city and town. What makes this series 
most interesting, however, is the examination 
of the events, people, and traditions that in­
spired architects and brought their creations to 
life. The series is hosted by architectural 
historian and author Spiro Kostof.
DN^
”aPlET, German for “homeland,” is a sixteen 
hour series premiering October 5th. ”aPlET is 
a gripping saga of Germany and it's people 
over the past 63 years. The plot is carried by 
one family from the fictitious village of Schab-

---------------------------------------------------

Page D2—The Tartan—September 15,1987
Everything from Laughs to Lessons in PBS’ Fall Season
continued from page D1
ber 23rd, is a humorously dramatic look at 
what it is to be an eighth-grader in the eighties. 
Each half-hour episode deals with an issue that 
is likely to, or already has, affected the lives of 
any family with a teenager. banAEeeP &pUPtA 
”Pnf tackles such issues as sex, peer pressure, 
and drugs and alcohol. This is not going to be 
an adult view of teenage problems; the cast has 
direct input into the issues and scripts of each 
episode.
modem medical treatment. Ffa ”aEmPUn gATe 
surveys medical treatments from around the 
world including faith healing, acupuncture, 
and herbalism, as well as twentieth century 
alternatives such as biofeedback, hypnotism 
chiropractice, and aerobics. The series does 
not try to prove the superiority of one system 
over another,instead it tries to examine the 
many approach s to physical healing in the 
world today.
FRIDAY
THURSDAY7DNb
7DNb
Returning for its eighth season with PBS is the 
acclaimed oWeTaAW‘ This season adapts the 
adventures of Dorothy L Sayers’ gentleman 
detective Lord Peter Wimsey (Edward Pather- 
bridge), and his unlikely partner, Harriet Vane 
(Harriet Walter), a young mystery novelist. 
The anecdotes of Lord Wimsey and Miss Vane 
vary from murder to ghost stories.
The first American comedy anthology made 
for public television will premier on October 
22nd. FAWPUn FPlae, starring Rosanna Ar­
quette, Teri Garr, David Byrne, Steven 
Wright, and Candice Bergen, will present a 
series of half-hour comedy vignettes that deal 
with trying life in the modem world. Learning 
to drive, getting a job, and meeting the in-laws 
are just a few of the frantic situations created 
by top comic writers such as Earl Pomerantz 
and Wendy Wasserstien.
DN^
Ffa ”aEmPUn gATe, beginning October 1, offers 
an inside look at the many alternatives to
Friday is the traditional evening for public 
television to air three classics of the PBS 
genre: “AaET iaAStAlEUsae, xPra HAtl Tfa 
oaT, and xPra HAtl xPUstmU GaUTaA—
This Fall “AaET iaPStAlEUsae opens with 
“The Music Makers” on October 16th. Other 
scheduled performances are Placido Domingo 
in “Aida;” “Tales From the Hollywood Hills,” 
short dramatizations adapted from John 
O’Hara, F. Scott Fitzgerald, and Bud Schul- 
berg; and two 90 minute specials which pay 
tribute to the music of George Gershwin.
xPUstmU GaUTaA opens the season on Septem­
ber 15th with the New York Philharmonic. 
Also on the agenda are Mozart’s “Magic 
Flute,” performed by the New York City 
Opera and the 25th anniversary of pianist 
Andre Watts’ affiliation with the Philhar­
monic.
Placido Domingo stars in “Turandot” this Fall 
on Ffa oaT— Other performances include 
Strauss’ “Ariadne auf Naxos” and 
Offenbach’s “Tales of Hoffman.”
Chinese noodlemaker stretches noodle dough to demonstrate the power of the atom.
SATURDAY
7DNb
Returning for a fourth season is the poignant 
family drama, 7tUdaA.tAke— This season will 
bring back favorites from previous seasons, as 
well as new short stories about coming of age 
and problems facing families. New this season 
are “the Fig Tree,” by Katherine Anne Porter, 
“The Littlest Horse Thieves,” starring Alistar 
Sim, and “Isaac Littlefeathers,” starring Lou 
Jacobi.
DN^
htskesfttm will be debuting new programs on
October 24th. Hosted by Herbie Hancock, 
htskesfttm emphasizes the skills of basic D 
music making, including basic technique and 
music theory. Lessons and demonstrations 
will be accented by guest appearances by the 
Police, John Taylor, John Entwhistle, and B.B. 
King.
Surprising, isn’t it? Granted, not everything 
is going to be interesting to every person, but 
don’t be afraid to test the waters. So, wrap the 
tinfoil around the fishbowl and tune in channel 
13 (WQED) or 16 (QEX) for some real quality 
TV. And afterwards, if you’re thinking “hell, 
that was worth five bucks,” send it to them, 
they’d appreciate it.
I
Allbooked up?
There’s always a price to pay for a degree.
Or for a job well done. But there’s one 
reward that doesn’t have to cost a lot.
The Music Cure.
For only S5.00 a concert you can discover 
the remedy for the common semester—six 
Sunday afternoon performances by the 
Pittsburgh Symphony. Other 1987-88 
subscription packages have also been 
discounted with the student’s 
budget in mind.
The Pittsburgh Symphony 
Orchestra. Relaxing. Invigorating.
Soothing. Just what the doctor
ordered—in a dosage especially for the overworked student. 
Join us for the 
1987-88 Season.
THE SUNDAY SERIES (B6)
Our most popular student package
for only $30.00
Nov. 8 LORJN MAAZEL, conductor 
PETER LIGHTFOOT, baritone 
MENDELSSOHN CHOIR,
Robert Page, directorThe Music of Mozart, Bizet and William Scbuman.
Nov. 22 YURJTEMIRKANOV, conductor 
ELMAR OLIVEIRA, violinThe Music of Mussorgsky, Mozart and Tchaikovsky.
Dec. 13 MICHAEL TILSON THOMAS,
conductor 
MATT HAIMOVTTZ, celloThe Music of Dahl, Haydn and Beethoven.
Feb. 21 CHARLES DUTOIT, conductor 
ANDRE WATTS, pianoThe Music of Berlioz, Beethoven and Shostakovich
Mar. 13 CHRISTOPH ESCHENBACH,
conductor and pianoThe Music of Mozart and Bruckner.
April 10 GENNADY
ROZHDESTVENSKY,conductor 
VIKTORIA POSTNIKOVA, pianoThe Music of Mozart and Shostakovich.
SERIESDAY# of 
PerformancesPRICEPrice per 
Performance
B6Sunday6$ 30.00$5.00
AlFriday12$ 66.00$5.50
A2Friday12$ 66.00$5.50
ClSaturday12$ 66.00$5.50
AFriday24$108.00$4.50
Tàke a Music Break.
Seating is limited, 
to order call
392-4821
THE PITTSBURGH 
SYMPHONY
I

---------------------------------------------------

September 15,1987—The Tartan—Page D3l
Plagiarism abounds in Calan and Camm's Wherrett Room Show
A—
By AMANDA COHEN
bPraAePtUe GtladW GAPTPs
In keeping with the spirit of a dry rush, 
AEPi opted for one of the few things that gets 
you drunk without alcohol: comedy. They 
Sponsored a show by local performers Rick 
Calan and Zelda Camm and held it in the 
Wherrett Room on Saturday night for the 
campus community to see.
Theirs was a noble undertaking, as most 
fraternities spend their rush funds on rock 
bands, rolls of brown paper, and spray paint. 
Not having a house to decorate, AEPi set up 
round tables in the Wherrett Room for a 
combination comedy show and rush event.
Comedy for rush was a novel idea, and one 
I hope other fraternities will consider in the 
future. Most area comedians cost less then 
rock bands, and they certainly don’t bother the 
neighbors as much. But if you’re considering 
hiring Rick Calan and Zelda Camm, be aware 
of what you’re getting for your money.
A Robin Williams record, two Firesign 
Theatre records, some Saturday morning car­
toons, a conversational joke-telling session, 
and a few sequins will give you almost exactly 
the same entertainment for much less money.
Jazz in Pittsburghus
Zelda Camm opened the show dressed as 
Mae West, with all the curves and all the 
nerves of the great Mae, but the classic, lilting 
alto voice was simply not there. The blue 
sequins and big black feathers brought the 
character across, but even saying Mae’s old 
lines, Camm was not Mae.
After a piano interlude, Camm returned in 
a costume reminiscent of a singing telegram, 
only with more silver sequins. She announced 
that she would now use her real voice, and I 
assumed she would also use real material. 
Instead she began talking about the thrills of a 
dry rush as a segue to seven minutes of mate­
rial lifted directly off of the latest Robin Wil­
liams album, “Live at the Met.”
Later in the show, Rick Calan recreated a 
couple of monologues from Firesign Theatre 
albums, and although he imitated the voices 
admirably, the material was just not original. 
Calan demonstrated a superb collection of 
cartoon character voices too, but hadn’t both­
ered to come up with anything new for them to 
say. The rest of his material came from book­
store joke books and maybe some writing.
The show was clearly a set, fill-in-the- 
blanks fraternity show, but Calan and Camm
didn’t even get that right. In her song to the 
brothers, Camm called them AEPhi instead of 
AEPi. They could have used comedy to build 
up the fraternity, but instead they used it to 
knock other people. Some of Calan’s routine 
was just plain offensive, as he ranked on fic­
tional fraternities of Christians, Italians, and 
homosexuals.
The most successful bit didn’t even require 
the presence of the paid performers. Calan 
brought up three volunteers and tried to teach 
them how to juggle. The humor came from the 
anticipated screw-ups, not the surprise, which 
is the source of good comedy. The audience 
laughed, but not because anyone onstage was 
particularly talented. Calan juggled every­
thing the three volunteers couldn't, but it 
wasn’t as funny when he dropped things. And 
he dropped everything.
The last half hour of the show was filled by 
a performer who apparently came with the 
Calan and Camm act, Mike the Magician. He 
pulled off the usual tricks smoothly and qui­
etly, only muffing a couple of illusions. He 
worked without music or an assistant, and 
without the unique personality most comic 
magicians develop. The tricks baffled and
amused the audience by themselves, while 
Mike the Magician was only a medium. .
Mike worked without a mike, and the only 
mike onstage was the one on the podium, so- 
anyone trying to do a monologue there looked 
like a guest speaker at the Elks’ lodge. On a- 
few occasions, the stage lights in the Wherrett. 
room dimmed of their own accord. As a friend 
of mine pointed out, AB Tech is expensive, but 
worth it. The round tables also worked to the 
performers’ disadvantage, as half of the chairs 
faced the wrong way and the circles became 
conversation pits during slower routines.
For a big finish, Camm returned in the Mae 
West outfit to invite AEPi chapter president 
Dave Jacobs to come up onstage and remove 
her garter belt. Yes, naturally, with his teeth. I 
don’t know what kind of fraternities Calan and 
Camm usually play, but the garter belt trick 
would make a roomful of drinking buddies go 
crazy. Jacobs blushed and asked that someone 
get his sister out of the room.
The rest of the audience laughed at the 
humiliating stunt without even being drunk. 
Still, Calan and Camm would have been better 
appreciated by a less attentive audience.
Carlton and Yellowjackets Bring Straightforward Jazz to Syria Mosque Ballroom
By STEWART LEVINE
FEATEU R"tATe NdPTtA 
From session player, to member of the Cru-/ *1" saders, to soloist, to producer, to composer, 
guitarist Larry Carlton has built a sound of 
straight-ahead jazz that will be coming to 
Pittsburgh this Friday night at the Syria 
Mosque Ballroom.
Carlton is on tour promoting his latest album, 
bPestraAW on MCA records. It features a cover 
of the Doobie Brothers song “Minute by 
Minute” which has crossed over onto the play- 
^ lists of adult contemporary radio.
Carlton’s professional career began twenty 
years ago with his first LP, 7PTf E xPTTma ”am" 
HAtl oW HAPaUde— This led to his first work for
television as a member of a group of singers 
that did Ford commercials. He then started 
working for NBC-TV as musical director for 
the show oAe— gm"fELaT—
In 1971, he was invited to join the Crusaders 
on their GApeEdaA 2Ua album. In his six years 
with the band, Carlton played on thirteen al­
bums. During that period, Carlton became a 
demanded session player, appearing on over 
100 gold albums. He also started doing pro­
duction work, producing two albums for pian­
ist Gap Mangione and the English band, 
Vapour Trails.
As the eighties began, Carlton began to work 
on television and film again. Nominated for
four Grammy awards, he and Mike Post won 
the ’’Best Pop Instrumental Performance” 
award in 1981. He also produced and co-wrote 
the television theme for 7ftze Ffa -tee as 
well as the movie soundtrack for gnEPUeT gmm 
2dde—
Joining Carlton in the Mosque ballroom will 
be the Grammy award winning band, the Yel­
lowjackets. The quartet’s latest album. HtpA 
GtAUaAe, comes after a year in which the Yel­
lowjackets received the “Best R & B Instru­
mental Performance” Grammy for their previ­
ous release, RfEdae, and contributed musical 
compositions and performances to the film 
“Star Trek IV”.
The Yellowjackets have been together since 
1981 and have spent a large amount of time de­
fining a sound distinct from other popular jazz 
combos such as Spyrogyra and Cabo Frio. 
With HtpA GtAUaAe, they have tightened up 
their sound, avoiding a simple latin-tinged 
color by featuring a variety of elements in­
cluding swing, African rhythms, and traces of 
fusion.
Ffa eft.e EAa esfadpmadStA HAPdEW, Ra"Talq
LaA »K, ET «J*> EUd »»J>> "l— FPskaTe EAa eTPmm 
tU eEma ET Tfa ote0pa LtC tSSPsa— 1ETPtUEm 
hastAd oEAT, hastAd 2pTmaTe, EUd ”aEde 
FtnaTfaA— Ffa eft. .Pmm La L—W—t—L— .PTf TELmae 
EUd sfEPAe "AtrPdad—
Entertainment Staff Meeting
Tuesday @ 8:00 pm 
in the Tartan Office
If you are interested in writing reviews and/or feature stories 
about art, books, comedy, dance, films, music, opera, resta- 
raunts, symphony, television, theater, or anything else that 
has to do with entertainment, come by and see where you 
can fit into Diversions.
Diversions Editor: Bruce Kasrel 
Assistant Diversions Editor: Leslie Griffin
BENEDUM
Stortm
The Benedum Center 
Needs You!
See all the shows FREE 
Become a Benedum Usher, Ticket- 
taker, or Doorman. 
Be part of the action! 
Call 456-2600 
Ask for Joseph Dicesare, 
Volunteer Coordinator
Look in Diversions next week for 
free tickets to Curtain*s Up!
WRCT PLAYLIST Aug. 28 - Sept. 10
Artist — Title — Label
1. Angry Red Planet — Little Pigs, little pigs — Angry Red
2. Happy Flowers — My Skin Covers My Body — Homestead
3. French, Frith, Kaiser & Thompson — Live, Love Larf, and 
Loaf — Rhino
4. Dinosaur — You’re Living All Over Me — SST
5. Various — Islands of Sanity — No Man’s Land
6. Flux — Uncarved Block — One Little Indian (UK)
7. Elliot Sharp — Soldier String Quartet/In the Land of the 
Yahoos — SST
8. Cassiber — Perfect Worlds — Recommended (UK)
9. King Missile — Fluting on the Hump — Shimmydisc
10. Live Skull — Don’t Get Any On You — Homestead
Wed. Sept. 16 at 8:30 p.m. 
Thurs. Sept. 17 at 6:00 p.m. 
MESCH MEIER 
Directed by Brenda Bakker-Harger
Coming Soon
Sept. 21 and 22 
SLEEPING POLICEMAN
STUDIO THEATRE THIS WEEK is brought to you by the Department of Drama

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
Funded by. Student 
Dormitory CouncilBLOOM COUNTY By Berke Breathed
AWFUL YOU PON T 
CALL YOU PON T 
WRITE.. WHfiT'S A 
SUPE Tue. 
oufftohf it
Of COURSE. YOUNGER ... sex/eR... WITH fi COUPLE 
Of BIG GAZONGA 
MICROCHIPS,
1 BET...
-MERE 'S SOME ¡AJE HAP BOPY ELSE...
seme laughs. i can tell . 
PUT. TIMES WHO IS IT7 
fiRE TEXAS TN5TRU-
PfffERENT. AlENTS?
fill SILICONE. 7HEY'LL BE 
SHOT BY 
FORTY. 
WATCH. r(
og9-N
ACE LADDER CO 
VICE PRES.
SAPLY, OLIVER MPE HIS 
RfiGGEP Oi' TEPPY MP 
WORN OUT SUPE RULE: 
OOOPBYE AS THEY 
RELUCTfiNTLY R£TVRNEPr 
TO HIS MEMORIES. /
my WERE RIGHT, Of COURSE. 
THE THIN65 FROM OUR PAST 
fiRE SOMEHOW THE PEAREST...
..fiNP AS HE SNUGGLEP BfiCK 
INTO BEP. OLIVER TUCKEP IN 
WITH HIM ONE VERY SPECIAL 
THOUGHT GLEANEP FROM 
THIS PHANTOM EVENING:
LIFE WITHOUT ft 
"RAMBO LASER RIFLE WOULPN'T BE WORTH LIVING.
I WANT TO BECOME A 
Gfim SHOW HOSTESS fiÑP 
EARN MILLIONS / 1 WfiNT 
TV STfiR IN fi JAMES BONP 
MOVIE / OR A ROCK VIPEO ' 
ORBE A PROFESSIONAL 
CHEERLEfiPER '
I I WANT TO GROW 
UP. ANP BRINO POWN 
PUMP MEN IN HI6H 
POSITIONS'
THE OPPORTUNITIES 
ARE INFINITE " I 
MIGHT SVEN DE-MfSS AMSRICA / 
Y£5,X uu/wr 
$ho Bi S2
£vA—< aa4
Yfi GOTTA 
CHfiSE
VER PREAMS. 
BABY.
BIMBO
Luck Dodgers
Ì.VCK AMP HIS TOieNIf i'm the PRestfi&tr'
OF THe Mt/NVAAN1 ÍABO* UHO^r</
1P NdUStieps
}.Jxapse. otd.ap.T.EAST OF VEGAS OUR HERO S 
STORY TAKES A PRAMATfC 
ANP PANGEROUS TURN '
J*00 U GIVE LOVE ** 
A BAP NAME HAM 
WU8BA WUB&A 
OOMP- THPT ' OOMP- 
______THPT '
NOWPY 
GAVE ME 
A SCRIPT.
By William Barm 
Matthew Qjamo
f zGh v?8o GCLOv ZI ( TH£ fcCWJt MÛOEL OFyou»Htio*eivte! .
f2TT G27 R ­F)\ 
Vl9”2S¦HSPS
5Tim12 lG2G” paee 
l&RF-5S TAe 
GSTgelL 7&] g1 gST4 
8 - Pk 6­1$O)
d.Jxapse. tuT p.Tt eJUTsdt
A SCRIPT OR STORY. IS 
CALUEP UPON TO WING ITLOOK"ERNESTNO NO NO
WHERE'S THE IRONIC 
TENSION 7 TOPICAL 
THINK TOPICALPRESSURES ON THEVRB GONNA 'VOIP MY IPEA I KNOW IT. LESSEE\\»£\
it talked ..it HHF711D*OPUS IS THUMBING OUTS/PE 
OF VEGAS SUPPENLY 
A CfiR PRIVEN BY 
fi CRIMINAL
SOCIOPATH .afy
SCREECHES UP ^ 
OPUS HOPS IN . "
HOWWUU -PCt >
Inkspots >

---------------------------------------------------

• By Kurt ShawBrickface & Stucco P.I.'sBy Craig Schlechter...UNDER THÉ- PSEUPONYHi "LIVINGSTON PETECTlVE AGENCY”, YOU /W 
FIND THE OPPBÔT TEW OF PRIVATE EYES 7oti EARTH..\ mU
J/EEP WITHIN THE 
MAZE OF NEWARK 
NEW JERSEY’S 3ACH 
STREETS ANP ALLEYS.ACE LADDER CO 
PRESIDENT
"aUaAP)OJAGena
¦USER-FRIENDLY, HUH? 
s/ F2xb ?2B F”NRN FTSm”%R; ^"7 ”g FN oN‘‘
CARNEGIE MELLON UNWERStry, ------1 WE AN HALL 5207... \-----
ASAe12Bew< dtipsonfocl 
STEVE [ HATE) (ANPREW5 A VERY 
COMPUTERS, rp^»i)5e/?-FRieNPLy ANO THEY 1 Of?PE.S ROT? iWV <(>HA.ghwT
S (NNv 127 F”gF 92B)?N 
Zx2““Nb I1, g1"hT7 W Ixx Rg9— l?E?rmviur F244 P |SS AWTH£ PUTRID 5MULL
—8RFhI5NR g“gI1/» VSPv—
By Danny Fahs
?ieislr>S oT®“xR ATÏÎAQP^g HSTDä1<S fìARTy» -fi-|ggg I 2t2GAGhR, I MOST c —
W&Ses. OÜR Rmttm TWir 'yfïl & SuRRoOriPBO BY 3 \HAVe A kA?#P / ,
OVW8££<§$aA g TCC•aO F5gxxG With ^)// Y 1 t
'*) rL-kll ANP ARMED 8
ml i* r l\ I v or4LV “,TH A \ Æ^t x 4
mu. "ELAIoPtAST.
Noto Ao yoti'u. 
^excuse os... ^
arnes & 
imor;J
By Jim VorheesMurray the Bear.VXWVVV*
HE’5 B*C* !
MIAMI 
, BEAR

---------------------------------------------------

Page D6—The Tartan—September 15,1987
Classifieds
Jobs/Wanted
Telephone Sales: Part time position 6-9:30 p.m. 
Call from our Shadyside office for non-profit or­
ganization. 6-10 positions. 363-4953 - afternoons.
Feminist Restaurant seeking cook, assistant cook, 
and wait staff. All skill levels welcome, call 381 - 
1700 after 7 PM Wednesday through Sunday.
Five Student Assistents are needed to assist pre­
school teachers with children 2 1/2 years old 
through Kindergarten with daily activities and 
routines. Experience with young children pre­
ferred. $3.50-$4.00. Contact: Marsha Poster or 
Vivian or Patty @ ext. 2149.
DRIVERS NEEDED for delivery. Automobile 
required. Call Bubba’s 362-6900 for Amanda or 
621-1500 for Rick. Approx. $6-7/hr.
Astro Pizza wants drivers with cars immediately! 
Hourly wage and Commission. Call 362-9800 or 
682-2772.__________________________________
Restaurant Catering Administrative Ass’t: Grad 
student needed to assist food & beverage director, 
Warner Centre. Qualifications must include ban­
quet service experience, typing skills, & profes­
sional appearance. Full or part-time offered. Hours 
are flexible. Call Philip Cullin at 281-9000. EOE.
For Sale
Housing
FLOWERS FOR SALE...Craig and Bayard Sts. 
Rose bouquet $3.95, mixed bouquet $3.25. 
gxN^)R Hx27NhR 687-4128. Delivery 687-4128.
This Week in DH2210
FfpAedEW, Ra"TalLaA »«
Hail Mary
Director Jean-Luc Godard demonstrates 
that he has lost none of his ability to chal­
lenge dogma and generate controversy. 
This modem retelling of the Virgin Birth 
shows Mary as a gas station attendant with 
a passion for basketball. After being in­
formed by two late-night visitors that she 
will become pregnant without having sex, 
her boyfriend, Joseph, becomes enraged by 
her pregnancy.
Although this film won the International 
Catholic Office Cinema Award it became 
the target of worldwide protest by church 
officials including the Pope, who de­
nounced the film as blasphemous. 
bPAasTtAJ &aEU4xps “tdEAd 
RTEAeJ oWAPal htpeeam, FfPaAAW htda, ifPmq
P""a xEsteTE 
Rft.TPlaeJ $,K,»>
HAPdEW, Ra"TalLaA »K
Foul Play
Speaking of the Pope, the Holy One finds 
himself the victim of a bizarre assasination 
plot in this 1978 comedy smash. Director 
Colin Higgins pits a San Francisco detec­
tive Chevy Chase and an innocent librarian 
Goldie Hawn against some no-good assas- 
ins. In their efforts to save the Pope, the duo 
embark on a series of comedic misadven­
tures climaxing in a frenetic chase in which 
people, cars and one liners fly at breakneck 
speed.
The true highlight of this film involves 
Dudley Moore, playing the role of a 
swinger, and his attempts to seduce Goldie 
Hawn in his apartment by performing a 
“Saturday Night Fever” style dance com­
plete with Disco lights and smoke.
bPAasTtAJ GtmPU ”PnnPUe
RTEAeJ GfarW GfEea, “tmdPa ”E.U, bpdq
maW ottAa, -pAnaee oaAadPTf
Rft.TPlaeJ $,K,»>,»#
RETpAdEW, Ra"TalLaA »[
An American Tail
This 1986 animated feature produced by 
Steven Spielberg represents ex-Disney ani­
mator Don Bluth’s attempt to return to the 
old studio’s classic style. The film tells the 
story of Fievel Moskowitz, a young immi­
grant mouse who struggles to find his 
family after being separated from them 
during their passage to America, where 
“...there are no cats and the streets are paved 
with cheese.”
This film is grating, overdone and over- 
cute. It features grotesque racial stere­
otypes and numbingly hideous songs 
which should have even the viewers with 
the strongest constitutions streaming out of 
the theatre in droves. After two hours of 
listening to Fievel’s airy, high pitched 
voice I found myself wishing that the 
young rodent would have a close encoun­
ter with a mouse trap. Alas, no such luck. 
Watching this film is somewhat akin to 
being slowly dipped in molasses over a 
very long period of time.
bPAasTtAJ btU -mpTf 
Rft.TPlaeJ $,K,»>, »#
RpUdEW, Ra"TalLaA #>
Animation Celebration
A collection of twenty-four animated 
shorts from seven different countries. The 
techniques used in the shorts are vary from 
standard cell animation to claymation and 
computer animation and are as interesting 
to watch as the films themselves. With 
titles <<kT—RpULaEl, GET EUd otpea, bPUt 
gmmaW, g GtelPs ?ttl, I 7Ee E FfEUkenPrq
PUn FpAkaW, RastUd GmEee oEPm, GfAtlt4 
eEpApe, NraAW btnze “pPda Tt Gtl"maTa 
”tla RESaTW, DpaeTJ g xtUn hEWze &tpAUaW 
PUTt xPnfT and fifteen others, how can you 
go wrong?
Rft.TPlaeJ $,K,»>,»# 
-W &ErPaA “APmmt4oEACpEsf
CMU Campus!! Concerned
about AIDS? You should be - LEARN
MORE - AIDS Video will be shown at:
12 noon, 12:35 pm, Sept. 17th & 21st
Wherrett Rm
Sept. 25th Rm. 13, Skibo
The information in this video has been gathered by the Ameri­
can College Health Assoc. & is the most current to date. You will 
walk away with a good basic understanding of:
- WHAT this disease is
- HOW it is transmitted
- HOW it can be prevented. _ ......................
House for sale: Oakland, newer 2 story brick, 3 
bedrooms, integral garage. Quiet street, move-in 
condition. Minutes from university. 681-6604.
Roommate wanted to share large house. Clean and 
quiet. Private bedroom, furnished living room, 2 
baths, fully-equipped kitchen and dishwasher and 
microwave. 5645 Wilkins Ave. 521-5069 or 682- 
0838.
Free Rent and Growing Equity. 3 unit house— 
Sahdyside, near Walnut. Separate utilities. Occu­
pancy permit. Walk to Pitt or CMU. $79,900 sale by 
ow-ner. 621-0814 day, 767-9942 eve.
Shadyside. Large two bedroom apartment. Con­
venient to CMU campus. $385 (includes heat) + 
electric. Available immediately. 422-0262.
Charming Carriage House Apartment. Quiet, 
prime location. Includes utilities. $325/month. 421 - 
4272.
1 Room Efficiency. Private entrance, private bath, 
utilities included. Call 683-0150.
Mise
Parties...Parties...Parties —
We have everything for your party at Papermart - 
One stop party shopping. Halloween, X-mas, New 
Year’s, and much more. Over 10,000 square feet of 
party. Party favors, decorations, and a wide variety 
of novelties. Close to campus - Morewood Avenue 
at Baum. 681-8900.
Free lectures on the psychic, Edgar Cayce on 
Meditation, holistic health, dreams, study groups. 
Friends Meeting House, Thurs. 7-10. 341-9975^
Theater Books: Plays, criticism, and Stage 
Crafts—one of the many fine collections at Saint 
Elmo’s. Also hard to find new jazz and new age 
tapes and CDs. 2214 E. Carson St., South Side. 431 - 
9100, open til 9. Saint Elmo’s Books. Independent, 
alternative, and literary. 54C bus from Oakland.
Drive a Car Anywhere Free. Pay gas only. A-l 
Auto Movers. 828-4813. f
$ EASY MONEY!! I will pay $25 for your phone 
book. Call Lee Ramsey Collect at: (615) 577-7237 
After 6:00 PM.
Services
C.M.L.’s Department of Defense Software Engi­
neering Institute (Programming for Star Wars) 
located by Fifth & Craig Vigiling Schedule: Mon­
day- 8-9 am, 11:30 am- 1 pm, 4-5:30 pm, 7-9 pm; 
Tuesday-8-9 am, 11:30-1 pm; Wednesday-8-9 am, 
11:30 am-1 pm, 4-5:30 pm; Thursday- 8-9 am, 
11:30 am-1 pm — Leaflet, CMU, Forbes & More- 
wood, & 4-5:30 pm, 7-9 pm; Friday- 8-9 am; 
Saturday- Noon-1 pm River City. Call 231 -2766 to 
schedule a time to help with vigiling. Duncan & 
Porter House.
RESEARCH PAPERS. 15,278 Available! Cata­
log $2.00. Research, 11322 Idaho, #206XT, Los 
Angeles 90025. Toll Free (800)351-0222, Ext. 33. 
Visa/MC or COD.
Cleaning Service: Experienced, reliable person 
will clean your apartment, home, dorm, office. O^p 
equipment. Excellent references. 422-3702 (24 
hours).
Female Smokers (18-30), leam about how your 
body copes with stress and smoking, and earn $20 
in 2 hours. Blood samples taken. For more info, call 
521-4647.
Lost & Found
Lost Wed. Eve., front of Porter/Baker: Small knife 
in brown leather sheath, handle black w/ red mark­
ings. Reward, 774-4586.
Lost—Gold link bracelet. $75.00 reward for its 
return. Call 268-2164 or 683-0226.
INTO ^ SHAPE
Aerobic Fitness Classes
Sponsored by CMU Student Affairs
TimeMonday/Wednesday/Friday 7:30-8:15 a.m. 
Fridays and Sundays 6:30-7:30 p.m.
Classes begin September 21st and 
continue through November 22nd
Thistle Hall
Only 50 cents per class
fo.Svo*en'

---------------------------------------------------

September 15,1987—The Tartan—Page D7
Announcements
yRichard M. Cyert will have open office 
hours for students between 2:30 pm and 5 
pm, in his office, 602 Warner Hall on 
Wednesday, October 7. Students who wish 
to meet with the president should telephone 
his secretary at 268-2200 to set up an 
appointment.
Constructions With Light, exhibited by 
l|Jane Haskell. Through October 4. Pitts­
burgh Center for the Arts, Fifth and Shady 
Avenues. Gallery Hours are 10 am - 5 pm, 
Tuesday through Saturday; 1 pm - 5 pm, 
Sunday.
Graphite: Homage to the Pencil. Through 
October 12. Pittsburgh Center for the Arts, 
6300 Fifth Avenue, Shadyside.
Drawn to the Surface: Artists in Clay 
£ and Glass. Through October 11. Pittsburgh 
Center for the Arts, 6300 Fifth Avenue, 
Shadyside.
On the Line: The New Color Photojour­
nalism. An exhibition of color photographs 
organized by the Walker Art Center in 
Minneapolis. Through November 8. 
Carnegie Mellon Art Gallery, 407 South 
Craig Street. Gallery Hours are 10 am - 5 
^pm, Tuesday through Friday; 11 am - 5 pm, 
Saturday; 1 pm - 4 pm, Sunday.
Drawings from the Eighties. As part of the 
citywide Chatsworth Collaboration of 
drawing exhibitions, the Carnegie Mellon 
Art Gallery features contemporary works on 
paper. Through November 8. Gallery 
Hours are 10 am - 5 pm, Tuesday through 
Friday; 11 am - 5 pm, Saturday; 1 pm - 4 
pm, Sunday.
The Roman Catholic Oratory celebrates 
Mass on campus at 7 pm, Saturday night and 
10:30 am, Sunday morning, in the GSIA 
Auditorium. Daily Mass is celebrated at 
12:30 pm, Monday through Friday, in CM’s 
Chapel (Skibo Rm. 39). For more informa­
tion call 681-3181.
The Downtown YWCA is sponsoring 
Home Health Aide Training. Forsuper- 
® vised training in theory demonstration and 
CPR call 391-5100. The sessions begin 
September 21 and last for three weeks. 
Mother’s Day Out. All women, especially 
mothers with preschool children ages four 
months up to kindergarten age can enjoy the 
Mother’s Day Out program which is held for
10 weeks on Tuesdays beginning September
22 through December 1. Classes for the 
^women include aerobics, children’s litera­
ture, cooking, stenciling and many more.
For more information call 361 -3951.
Patricia Bellan-Gillien presents her works, 
silkscreens, paintings and drawings at the 
Hewlett Gallery, College of Fine Arts, 1st 
floor, through September 19. Gallery hours 
are: 11 am - 4 pm, Tuesday through 
Saturday and 1 pm - 4 pm, Sunday.
® Buhl Science Center. xEeaAPpl— 8 pm and 
9:15 pm, Thursday through Sunday; and 3 
pm, Saturday. For current concerts call 321 - 
5554.
RtpUde RaUeETPtUEm— Permanent exhibit 
at 1 pm - 5 pm, Monday through Thursday;
1 pm - 9:30 pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, 
Saturday; and 1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday.
Ffa hPnfT otrae— Permanent exhibit at 1 
1 pm - 5 pm, Monday through Thursday; 1 pm
- 9:30 pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; 
and 1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday.
-ETTaA B"— Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 
5 pm, Monday through Thursday; 1 pm - 
9:30 pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; 
and 1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday.
GtmtA— Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 pm, 
Monday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 pm, 
^ Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 1 pm - 
5 pm, Sunday.
-Pt GtAUaA— Permanent exhibit at 1 pm -
5 pm, Monday through Thursday; 1 pm - 
9:30 pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; 
and 1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday.
2LeaArETtAW— Friday evenings, 
weather permitting.
IlEna IlEnPUETPtU— Permanent exhibit 
at 1 pm - 5 pm, Monday through Thursday; 
1 pm - 9:30 pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, 
Saturday; and 1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday.
HtpsEpmT iaUdpmpl— Permanent exhibit 
at 1 pm - 5 pm, Monday through Thursday;
1 pm - 9:30 pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, 
Saturday; and 1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday.
Don’t Look Now. starring Julie Chirstie and 
Donald Sutherland. Gripping supernatural 
horror tale about a father and his dead 
daughter. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm 
and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
The Purple Rose of Cairo. Mia Farrow 
plays a waitress obsessed with movies. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7 pm and 9 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Lectures
Dept, of Chemical Engineering Seminar.
Dr. Dennis E. O’Brien speaks on “Advanced 
Technology for Hydraulically Fracturing Oil 
and Gas Reservoirs to Stimulate Production” 
at 11 am in DH 1112. Coffee and pastries 
are served at 10:45 am in DH 1102.
MEMS Staff Seminar. Professor Robert E. 
Newnham, Pennsylvania State University, 
speaks on “Composite Electroceramics”; at
3 pm in WeH 7500. Informal discussions 
and refreshments follow in WeH 2325.
Workshops
Interview Skills. Calm anxieties by 
learning about the format of a screening 
interview and how to prepare for it. 4:30 pm 
in Skibo Rm. 13.
Take the Money and Run. A funny film 
about a compulsive, but inept, thief. Pitts­
burgh Playhouse at 7 pm and 9 pm. Admis­
sion $2.95.
Hail Mary, sponsored by AB Films. DH 
2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm and 10 pm. Admission 
$1.
Workshops
Job Search Orientation. Learn about the 
process of an effective job search, Career 
Services and Placement Resources, and 
strategies to achieve your goals. 11:30 am 
and 4:30 pm in Skibo Ballroom.
An American Tail. Pleasant cartoon 
feature about a Russian Jewish mouse who 
comes to America in the 1880’s to find some 
peace and quiet. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7:30 pm, 9:30 pm and 11:30 pm. Admission 
$2.95.
Hanna and Her Sisters, starring Barbara 
Hershey, Dianne Wiest and Michael Caine. 
Loving look at a Manhattan family. Pitts­
burgh Playhouse at 7 pm, 9 pm and 11 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Foul Play, sponsored by AB Films. DH 
2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and midnight. 
Admission $1.
Lectures
Academic Computing Seminar. William 
Arms speaks on “Personal Computers for 
Students”, discussing the academic reasons 
for owning a computer, equipment choices 
and description of the services available; at 
3:30 pm in Hamburg Hall.
I /¡Wednesday 19Sa*Z,day
M \/ Movies
The Prince and the Showgirl. Wonderful 
performances from Laurence Olivier and 
Marilyn Monroe in this tale about a show 
girl and a prince who pursues her. Pitts­
burgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:40 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
The Purple Rose of Cairo. Mia Farrow 
plays a waitress obsessed with movies. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7 pm and 9 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Lectures
Dept, of Architecture Seminar. Stefani 
Ledewitz, Doug Cooper and Patrice Der- 
rington speak on “Planning and Presenting 
Lectures” at noon in CFA 206.
Carnegie Mellon Visiting Writers Series. 
Jerry Costanzo, poet, and Hilary Masters, 
fiction writer, present their work at 8 pm in 
the Adamson Wing, BH.
Workshops
Job Search Orientation. Learn about the 
process of an effective job search, Career 
Services and Placement Resources, and 
strategies to achieve your goals. 11:30 am 
and 4:30 pm in Skibo Ballroom.
1 ^Thursday
JL È Movies
Betty Blue. French film directed by Jean- 
Jacques Beineix and starring Beatrice Dalle 
as the wild, assertive 21-year old who tries 
to change the man she moves in with. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:40 
pm. Admission $2.95.
The Secret of My Success, starring Michael 
J. Fox. Comedy about a young man from 
Kansas who starts working in a giant 
corporation and in a few months takes over. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm 
and 11:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Hanna and Her Sisters, starring Barbara 
Hershey, Dianne Wiest and Michael Caine. 
Loving look at a Manhattan family. Pitts­
burgh Playhouse at 7 pm, 9 pm and 11 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
An American Tail, sponsored by SDC 
Films. DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and 
midnight. Admission $1.
Sports
Football. Home game against Case 
Western Reserve University, 2 pm.
Movies
The Jazz Singer. This is the classic 1927 
first talkie with A1 Jolson as the Cantor’s 
son who goes into show business. Songs 
include “Mammy” and “Toot Toot Tootsie.’ 
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 
pm. Admission $2.95.
Bananas, starring Woody Allen and 
Howard Cosell. Woody Allen gets mixed 
up in a revolution. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7 pm and 9 pm. Admission $2.95. 
Animation Celebration, sponsored by AB 
Films. DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and 
midnight. Admission $1.
21 Monday
ÆÊÊm JL Movies
Blazing Saddles, starring Cleavon Little, 
Gene Wilder and Harvey Korman. Mel 
Brooks directs this outrageous, hilarious 
spoof of westerns with a great cast. Pitts­
burgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Bananas, starring Woody Allen and 
Howard Cosell. Woody Allen gets mixed 
up in a revolution. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7 pm and 9 pm. Admission $2.95.
Workshops
Resume Writing. Get your resume off the 
ground by learning some basic guidelines. 
See examples and conduct a resume critique 
as if you were the personnel officer. 
Students of all majors are welcome. 11:30 
am in Skibo Rm. 13.
Calendar Submissions
IS Wtp .Pef Tt "mEsa EU EUUtpUsalaUT. lPesammEq
Uatpe PTal, tA araUT PU The Tartan, eaUd PT Tt 
GEl"pe GEmaUdEA / BUPraAePTW hamETPtUe / 
GEAUanPa oammtU BUPraAePTW / iPTTeLpAnf— ig 
»(#»*— RaUd PT LW sEl"pe lEPm Tt Tfa ELtra 
EddAaee tA dAt" PT tSS ET (>»« HtALae g<a ­Ffa
ftpea LaT.aaU g 9 EUd gFS#c—
imaEea PUsmpda Tfa Stmmt.PUn PUStAlETPtU .faU 
epLlPTTPUn araUTeJ FPTma tS araUT, e"tUetA, LAPaS 
daesAP"TPtU, mtsETPtU, dETa, EUd TPla— IU EddPTPtU, 
PUsmpda Tfa UEla EUd "ftUa UplLaA tS Tfa 
"aAetU epLlPTTPUn Tfa aUTAWJ TfPe PUStAlETPtU .Pmm 
La pead tUmW Tt stUSPAl Tfa araUT—
The Tartan Pe UtT Aae"tUePLma StA Tfa EsspAEsW 
tA rEmPdPTW tS EUW NraUT mPeTPUn— IU EddPTPtU, PT 
AaeaU)ae Tfa APnfT Tt adPT tA tlPT EUW mPeTPUn StA 
"pLmPsETPtU—
gmm araUTe EAa SAaa tS sfEAna EUd t"aU Tt Tfa 
naUaAEm GoB eTpdaUT "t"pmETPtU pUmaee 
tTfaA.Pea UtTad—
Deadline for Calendar submissions is Wednes­
day at 5 pm for the next weeks issue.
y<9u ¿am do etTHfcfc out of -nte^E. 1WN6C. YdO HAve uHtft tr -WiS To voA conk, <zre\v fctz. me -pipr/vo. 
pUTPUt4 id äralP -the. awmc^
oç stupeMr-'PEûouiçP sntfRr ftwvtes
e’•ATtSP— I? Vtt A(2g VPAAaaaen£o W 
hiX>/CR- PRAWtNO A STtóP. -to TUg-
TAWAN Office ­i’o -2 I” <K«eO)

---------------------------------------------------


