TARTAN
January 16, 1979__________Volume 79, Number 17_________Carnegie-Mellon University__________Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Student Found Dead in Scobell
Andrew Finnerty, a junior electrical 
engineering major,was found dead Sunday 
afternoon in his dorm room in Scobell. 
As of TARTAN press time, the cause of 
death had not been established. Homicide 
detectives were called, but officials 
believed that the death was a result of 
natural causes. An autopsy was scheduled 
for yesterday.
Finnerty was discovered at 1:15 PM on 
Sunday after floormates smelled “a 
strange odor” in the hallway and decided 
to investigate. Steven Garlow, of 107 
Scobell, entered the unlocked room with 
Resident Assistant Khalil Shareef, and 
found Finnerty wearing pajamas, in his 
bed with homework on his lap.
Security arrived and called the 
Allegheny Coroner’s office. The Coroner 
estimated that Finnerty had been dead for 
almost two days. He was last seen eating 
dinner at Skibo on Friday evening.
Finnerty lived in a single in Scobell 
115. Floormates first smelled the odor on 
Saturday evening, but by Sunday morning 
Shareef sensed that Finnerty might be dead 
because the odor was “horrible.” After the
body was found, the entire wing was 
evacuated. His neighbors were described 
as “visibly shaken,” and Dr. Robert 
Morgan of the Counseling Center met with 
Scobell residents Sunday night.
Finnerty was described as “pleasant, 
easy-going, and slightly introverted,” with 
“a good sense of humor” by Larry Lerner, 
a freshman who lived up the hall.
“His grades were very good, and those 
of us who knew him can’t imagine that it 
would have been suicide,” Lerner said^ “We 
last saw him Friday afternoon right outside 
his room. We were talking about home­
work, or something.”
Finnerty was described as “scientifically 
oriented,” and was known to conduct 
some experiments in his room. He was 
contemplating double majoring in pre-med.
Finnerty’s home residence was in 
Willoughby, Ohio, and his parents were 
notified Sunday afternoon by Dean 
Swank.
He was 20 years old, approximately six 
feet tall and weighed 205 pounds. He had 
no known history of illness.
Coroner's ambulance waits outside Finnerty's room (two open windows), to receive the body.
Architects Exhibit Works
Safety Methods Reviewed
by Vicki Safran
In response to the brutal killing of a 
co-ed that occurred January 4 at Pitt. 
President Cyeri has called for a “thorough 
review” of our own campus security. Last 
Friday, President Cyert, along with Vice 
President Van Horn, Dean Swank, Direc­
tor of Security Corletti, Captain Kocis, Di­
rector of Auxiliary Services Dillon (not to 
be confused with Director of Housing 
Dalton) and directors of Residence Life, 
met with student R.A.’s and dorm desk 
monitors. Cyert emphasized that he is 
quite pleased with security at CMU, believ­
ing it to be “much tighter” than it was a 
year ago. The purpose of the meeting was 
primarily to insure that CMU continues to 
maintain a safe environment and does not 
overlook ways to inprove present security.
Cyert pointed out that although Pitt 
employs a much larger security force than 
does CMU, Pitt lacks student cooperation. 
Throughout the meeting, the administra­
tion emphasized and re-emphasized that 
student cooperation is essential to a secure 
environment. Captain Kocis stated that he 
is very pleased with student cooperation 
and interest in security issues at CMU. Pres­
ident Cyert then requested that students 
“act sensibly” and follow security regula­
tions. The Security Department provided 
the following guidelines:
Preventive Measures for Personal Safety 
Personal Safety
1. Walk in well lighted areas after dark and 
try to be in the company of others when­
ever possible.
2. Don’t take “short-cuts” by using side 
streets, parking lots or other secluded ar­
eas.
3. Lock your auto at all times. Before en­
tering your auto check the interior. Have 
your key ready.
4. “Be aware” of persons approaching you, 
especially after dark, asking questions 
about change for large bills, street direc­
tions, or locations of buildings.
5. Use the escort service at night if you are 
by yourself or if it is late. Keep intruders
out. Don’t let strangers walk in with you.
6. If assaulted, scream, make a scene, break 
away as quickly as possible. Screaming is 
your number 1 defense. Kick, bite, scratch 
and hit. Run to a known area, to people, or 
an occupied building.
7. Report any assaults or suspicious inci­
dents to Security, 578-2323, try to re­
member the character of the suspect. You 
may prevent harm to others.
Dorm Security
1. Support and monitor the dorm Security 
locking system.
2. “Keep Your Door Locked”, lock dorm 
rooms, offices, and labs when working 
alone.
a. When taking a short nap, be certain 
the door is locked.
b. Lock doors when retiring at night.
c. Do not open a locked door without 
asking who is there.
d. Don’t leave doors propped open for
by Stuart Seidman
The Department of Architecture will be 
holding an exhibition of student work 
at the Sarah Scaife Gallery of Carnegie 
Institute from February 1 to March 31. 
The show, “DOWNTOWN AT CMU: 
Studies for the Golden Triangle,” will 
feature 28 projects designed over the past 
five semesters.
This is the first show of this scale 
ever mounted by the Architecture de­
partment. While it is a rare occasion when 
college students are given the opportunity 
to exhibit their work at a major American 
art museum, the department has received 
the full cooperarion of Carnegie Institute 
in preparing the show.
All of the projects being exhibited are 
for sites within the Golden Triangle of 
Pittsburgh. “We see it as a way of getting 
the downtown community to see our 
role in the city more seriously,” was the 
way Professor Frank Toker, an organizer 
of the show, described one of the purposes 
of the show.
To prepare the student works for the 
show, the Architecture department
All of the 300 students in the department 
have been caught up in this “charrette.” 
Students in the department are very 
enthusiastic about this show. Along with 
having the opportunity to show their 
work in public, the students are talking
continued on page 4
Architecture student Briar Tomlinson works 
on one of his models for the department exhibi-
continued on page 6 suspended all of its classes last week. t*00 at Scaife Gallery.Cyert Discusses Faculty Raises
President Cyert told faculty members that 
they fare well in salary level among colleges and 
universities.
by Jeanette Bryan
On Wednesday afternoon, January 10, 
President Cyert addressed the CMU faculty 
in the Wherrett room of Skibo. His main 
topic for discussion was the salary of the 
professors, associates and assistant 
professors, including compensation and 
comparison to other schools. He initially 
gave the faculty an estimate of the 
financial outlook for 1979, how it was 
determined, and how it compared with 
other private universities.
The president explained that the deans, 
department heads, trustees and he have 
been doing a comparative analysis of 
salaries. The study, made largely by Gene 
Levi, explores and contrasts the salaries 
of intercollegiate members. As part of the 
salary administration process, the deans 
and department heads collect and review 
this data in order to establish the best 
salary setting process (The salary setting 
process is the way in which the funds that 
have been allocated to the university are
distributed among the faculty.) Cyert pre­
sented the results of the detailed study in a 
film representation of the data.
The first slide showed the average sala­
ries for 1977-78 of a number of selected 
private university faculties. CMU was 
slightly below the average for professors 
($28,400 per annum), twelfth in line a- 
mong associates ($19,400 per annum) and 
eighth from the top among assistant pro­
fessors ($16,100 per annum). The only 
other universities that exceeded CMU na­
tionwide in average professor’s salaries 
were Stanford, Penn State. MIT, John Hop­
kins, Cal. Tech, Cornell and Rochester.
The second slide represented the cost of 
living in various metropolitan areas for the 
year 1978. Here, Cyert discussed the im­
portant issue of inflation with regard to 
the Pittsburgh area and CMU salaries. In 
Pittsburgh, the rate of inflation has gone 
up in recent years but is still substantially 
lower than some of the other areas such as 
continued on page 4

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN
The first day of class
For the first time in CMU history, classes began on 
Enrollment Day. The response on campus was understand­
ably negative. Students didn't like it. They complained that 
they stepped off their planes and into the classrooms; they 
got off the turnpike and had to head for lectures before 
they could visit the bookstore.
Many professors saw Monday as a waste of their time 
because, in quite a few cases, only half of their students 
showed up for class. Mixed with the snow, ice and assorted 
mix-ups that resulted because students didn’t know the new 
rules, Enrollment Day turned into a fiasco.
There were a number of problems. Some students didn’t 
know they could go to their classes before enrolling, and 
some teachers didn’t know that Monday was a class day. 
The bookstore wasn’t open on Sunday, meaning most 
students had to go to class cold, without even seeing what 
the required readings would be like. The weather com­
pounded the situation because students who couldn’t make 
it to Pittsburgh by Monday, didn’t know how to go about 
enrolling.
It looks like we’ll have class on enrollment day from now 
on. Dr. Schatz, V.P. of Academic Affairs says, “We’re now 
able to make registration almost complete the semester 
before, making enrollment a simple process. Faculty 
members say that they need another class day because they 
don't have enough time in a semester to finish their curri­
culum goals."
Dr. Schatz agreed that the ’79 enrollment was a mess. He 
admitted, "We’re at fault in another matter. Students didn’t 
know they could go to classes before enrolling. In the future 
we’ll make that dear. And in the fall semesters, we won’t 
have weather problems. ”
Dr. Schatz realizes that it’s hard to change tradition, and 
a good proportion of the campus community isn’t ready to 
accept having class on enrollment day. But nevertheless, 
plans are to continue the policy.
With 78 class days, this semester is one of the longest in 
history. How many thousands of CMU graduates got good 
grades and good jobs after experiencing a shorter semester? 
The students of today won t be shortchanged without the 
extra day. Class-free enrollment day allows students time to 
get unpacked and reassimilated to school life. Last Monday 
was a worthless class day. We don’t really need it. Let’s 
return to tradition.
Jeffrey Zaslow 
Editor-in-chief
In Memory
Andrew Joseph Finnerty
1958-1979
COFFEE , TEA , 3 D FOR4*\ \
Letters
The 50 cent shaft 
Editor:
Amazing. The CMU dorm resi­
dent is getting shafted again, and 
this time it’s coming from our 
own quarter. The SDC has begun 
charging 50 cents for its previous­
ly free Saturday night films.
As a student, I’m used to the 
cost of every tiling going up with­
out being able to do anything 
about it. In this case I’m even will­
ing to accept the fact that these 
movies are still cheaper than A.B. 
films and a steal compared to lo­
cal theatres (although I take issue 
with the statement in the last 
TARTAN that “better films” 
could result from this price in­
crease. Old James Bond flicks are 
hardly representative of Holly­
wood’s cream).
Nevertheless, I have to object 
to the fact that it is the dorm resi­
dent who is subsidizing the 50 
cent fee for the campus popula­
tion at large. We’re paying a resi­
dents’ fee, supposedly to help fi- 
nanceprogram^ucl^sjhes
tainly, not living in either Donner 
or Morewood I see precious little 
of the rest of the residence pro 
gram). In my recollection, only 
the skating party held last winter 
exclusively benefitted the dorm 
residents whose fees paid for it. 
Why then, do fraternity members 
and commuters pay the same 50 
cents admission that fee-paying 
dormies do? It hardly seems equit­
able.
Perhaps it should come down 
to issuing dormie-i.d.s to enable 
ticket-takers to distinguish be­
tween two different prices. I don’t 
really know what the most feas­
ible solution would be. But the 
present blanket charge is a slap in 
the face to the dorm residents.
A Woodlawn Resident 
Editor’s Note: The Senate pro­
vides SDC with a small subsidy, 
to take care of the fact that non- 
SDC members see the movies.
Would Simon please say? 
Editor,
Reading the letters and VIEWS 
Jln__j_he Tartan of Dec. 12th),
which reflect the response of the 
student community to L’affair 
Simon, I was disappointed to 
note that no one questioned the 
basic premise of Dr. Simon; the 
Editors of the ‘Tartan’ of 1970 
being a bunch of ‘Tea party anar­
chists’. He felt that since the law 
prohibits lynching, let us use 
printer’s ink in place of tar and 
scholarly rebuke in place of fea­
thers.
Dr. Simon, from all accounts, 
is an erudite Scholar. Surely, he 
must have known that the pre­
sence of a few Dr. Faustus in a 
community is not only desirable, 
but indeed essential, if the Sanity 
of Society is to be preserved. May 
I remind Dr. Simon that his gen­
eration had very well defined ‘De­
vils’ in the shape of Hitler and 
Mussolini. Not every generation is 
so fortunate, in being given such 
an easy option. But does it logical­
ly follow that whenever they be­
come passionate over issues, they 
are tilting at windmills. May I sug- 
;est tha^nn^enerationi>m_coiv
TARTAN
Volume 79January 16, 1979Number 17
Editor-in-Chief:Jeff Zaslow
Managing Editors:Jean Pellegrini
V. R. V. Ramanan
Business Manager:Stephanie Waite
News Editor:Brian Byrnes
Features Editor:Mory Brenner
FOLIO Editor:K. A. Yaksich
Entertainment Editor:Joan Livitski
Sports Editors:Howard Turner
Perry Colosimo
Photography Editor:Skip Brazelton
Production Managers:Neil Adler
John Qualley
Art Director:Dianne Lauble
Assistant Newsand Features Editor:Leslie Weiser
Assistant News Editor: 
Assistant Features Editor:
Andrew Ragan 
Susan Borg
Copyright i )/‘ v the.Carnegie-Mellon University TARTAN The Fditoiial Board reserves the right to edit or 
withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication t unded in pari by the Student Govern­
ment of CamegK ‘/Jellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213 Fditorial Offices Skibo 50; (412) 578— 
2111 -v 2112 Business Offices Skibo 52. (412) 578-2111
ALL RIGHTS RESER'/rO

---------------------------------------------------

“A freshman who’s had enough ”, entitled this piece“ And Innocence Shall Be No More 
He was inspired by the writings of Julius Lester.VIEWS
America suffers from a con­
genital inability to confront and 
overcome its moral dilemmas. One 
of these dilemmas has been its 
treatment of Blacks. It did not 
confront this problem when it 
compromised with the South on 
the question of slavery at the Con­
stitutional Convention of 1786. 
It did not confront this dilemma 
when it allowed itself to be drawn 
into a civil war over the same 
question; and after that war 
America failed yet again to con­
sider Blacks as human beings. 
Now it appears that that failure 
is once again imminent.
During the sixties there was a 
vague hope among many Blacks 
that the changes in laws would 
also change white attitudes, that 
the guilt white liberals uncovered 
in themselves would lead to gen­
uine self-transformation and social 
change. It was not to be so, and 
in 1979 it is almost as if the six­
ties never happened.
America in the seventies is sick 
and tired of us and “our prob­
lems”. As if to demonstrate that 
lack of concern, a Nobel prize­
winner traveled across the country 
lecturing on the genetic inferiority 
of Blacks, while a former presi­
dential aide, who had counseled 
a policy of “benign neglect” 
toward Blacks, was rewarded for 
his racism with a New York sen­
atorial seat. In California, a white 
man went to court because he felt 
he would have gotten into med­
ical school if niggers weren’t 
being given “preferential treat­
ment”. And, lo and behold, white
folks all over the country started 
thinking that they, too, would 
have gotten this promotion or 
that job if it hadn’t been for nig­
gers and “affirmative action”.
No issue in the seventies has 
been more debated than that of 
“preferential treatment” or “af­
firmative action” or “reverse dis­
crimination”. The very terms in­
dicate that white superiority is 
alive, well and getting stronger. 
Implicit in each term is the at­
titude that whites are doing us a 
favor, that because of cultural, 
social, and/or genetic inadequa­
cies, we simply don’t stand a 
chance unless the rules of the 
game are suspended, changed 
or bent so we can get a job or go 
to medical school. By using such 
terms, they try to avoid their re­
sponsibility for the situation and 
seek to make us bear it.
What they call “preferential 
treatment” is the reparation our 
historical suffering demands. What 
they call “affirmative action” is 
not white liberal benevolence but 
white acknowledgement of its 
bloody historical gUilt. But for 
white America to admit to Blacks, 
Native Americans or the Viet­
namese that it is guilty of the 
most heinous wrongdoing is like 
asking Richard Cyert that he 
doesn’t know a thing about being 
president.
So often now I hear whites 
say, “You people should want to 
be judged on your merits, instead 
of relying on government quotas 
and affirmative action programs”. 
That’s true, and we would not
mind being judged on our merits 
if white people were capable of 
doing so. History has taught us, 
however, that most white Amer­
icans are simply incapable of look­
ing at us as individuals. If white 
Americans could see us as indi­
viduals, then Frederick Douglass 
and W.E.B. Dubois would have 
been presidents, Jackie Robinson 
would have - managed a major- 
league baseball team and Carl 
T. Rowan would have had his own 
television show. There is no 
simple evidence in American his­
tory to support the contention 
that whites have any capacity 
whatsoever for looking at us and 
seeing anything but niggers. Thus, 
when whites ask us to be judged 
on our own merits, they insult us 
beyond all imagining because they 
are asking us to trust them, to 
trust those that would not hire 
us, rent us apartments, sell us 
houses, let us eat in restaurants 
or sleep in hotels without demon­
strations, lawsuits and new legis­
lation. How dare they? Do they 
think we’re fools or just plain 
dumb? No, it’s obvious. They 
don’t think about us at all.
What is called “affirmative ac­
tion” is a weak but necessary ad­
mission by whites that they are 
not innocent and that they can’t 
be trusted to ever look at us and 
see individuals. Until they stop in­
sisting on their innocence, they 
remain morally unworthy of our 
trust. Actively affirming that in­
nocence is what they’ve been 
doing throughout this decade, and 
it is taking its toll in the most hor­
rible way on Blacks.
A recent study published in the 
New England Journal of Medicine 
showed that the primary cause of 
death among Black men between 
the ages of 25 and 34 is not di­
sease or accidents, but homicide. 
In short, the race is killing itself. 
Yet this study done by white 
doctors does not consider that 
hopelessness, despair, poverty and 
racism might be at the root of 
the problem. No. The study con­
cludes that the answer to the pro­
blem is stricter gun control laws. 
At the same time that homicide 
has become the number one cause 
of death, the suicide rate among 
Blacks is increasing alarmingly.
It is evident to me that the toll 
racism inflicts on us is increasing 
to the point that living in America 
is becoming literally impossible 
for more and more of us. Thus, 
when white people try to elimi­
nate or make ineffective the piti­
ful and limited programs we need 
in order to keep from slipping be­
low zero, they are sending us a 
very clear message: Die, Nigger, 
Die, as H. Rap Brown prophetical­
ly titled his autobiography.
I find myself more tired than 
angry these days. Anger is a sign 
of caring, and I am at a chilling 
place where I really don’t care 
anymore. I am tired of having 
my life threatened by Supreme 
Court decisions and presidential 
policies. What president has ever 
had to have a policy about white 
people? There has never been a 
national debate about the rights 
of whites. Yet year in and year
out our right to live as human 
beings is debated, studied, re­
searched, questioned, TV-spec- 
ialed and legislated. I’m tired of it. 
My existence is not so question­
able that I will have it continually 
subjected to legal arguments, 
court decisions, the whims of pol­
iticians or the needs of newspaper 
columnists to fill space. Yet Black 
existence in America has never 
been anything but questionable.
I am tired of being defined and re­
lated to as a “problem”. When 
will whites realize that they are 
“the problem”, not only for us 
but for damn near everybody else 
in the world?
And I am truly tired of being 
told, “I haven’t done anything 
to Blacks”, because there are in­
nocent Black babies (I was one 
once) who are already condemned 
to death because they’re Black in 
a world where whites say, in inno­
cence, “I didn’t do it.” Well, 
damnit, somebody did it! And 
somebody is still doing it. And if 
whites don’t find out who it is 
and stop him or her, then don’t 
blame me if one day, somewhere,
when some white person says the 
wrong thing ( in total innocence) 
or even just holds his mouth 
wrong, I go off and, without a 
word of explanation or a sound of 
rage or a change in facial expres­
sion, I mete out justice, not caring 
if this white individual or that 
white individual ever did a thing 
in his or her life to Blacks. 
Enough is enough and innocence 
shall be no more.
more Letters
trast to his, has to contend against 
devils in Angel’s garb, who repre­
sent ‘Smug Satisfaction’ and ‘Sta­
tus Quo.’
Are the Goldwaters of this 
country, or the Indira Gandhis of 
my own, any the less devilish for 
all the “concern for the masses,” 
they profess to espouse? (After 
all, what else did Hitler do at the 
infamous Nazi rallies but profess 
his concern for the masses, and 
describe the Jews, Socialists and 
Communists to be followers of 
Bakhunin).
May I further remind Dr. Si­
mon that when it comes to taking 
up causes, the vanguard is formed 
by these ‘tea party anarchists’. In. 
June of 1975, Mrs. Gandhi 
clamped down an internal emer­
gency in India using the ruse that 
‘anarchism’ (yes, that was her ex­
act word) could not be tolerated. 
What followed, as the world 
knows, is two and half years of 
the most repressive government. 
The masses (meaning us) realised 
that the ‘anarchists’ were not hav­
ing a tea party, but were in deadly 
earnest.
Can you illuminate me Dr. Si­
mon, by explaining how the situa­
tion in this world, where three- 
fourths of the people go perpetu­
ally hungry, can be changed, 
without a little bit of anarchism? 
How do we make the gentlemen 
who form the United States Con­
gress realise that if they divert 
funds from one nuclear subma­
rine. it would suffice to feed mil­
lions of People, without resorting 
to a little bit of anarchism. (Not
being fond of boxing or hunting, I 
would settle for a prescription de­
tailing the Tea Party version ra­
ther than the barricade version of 
Anarchy).
In conclusion Dr. Simon, dub­
bing someone “anarchist’ (mild 
versions I admit), means that the 
existing order is fine. (Change, 
when it does come, does ever so 
gently). Does it not imply, revered 
Sir, that you are denying your 
heritage, which saw the birth of a 
Luther and a Lincoln ( and if I am 
not committing sacrilege - a 
Marx.).
In essence Sir, if you were try­
ing to maintain that a discreet 
amount of Anarchy is not desira- 
able, and indeed harmful, you 
were asking the students of 1970 
to believe that the stork brought 
them to this Garden of Eden 
(which some may prefer to call an 
‘unjust world’) and surely that 
was insulting their intelligence.
Moloy K. Bannerjee 
Doctoral student 
SUPA
Crying over bananas 
Editor:
Hi! We thought that this ex­
cerpt from today’s paper might be 
amusing to your readers. It’s from 
the JOURNAL HERALD of Day­
ton and it appeared in a column 
called “Journal of Sports,” by 
Ritter Collett. Nothing much was 
said about the bananas until 
now—mainly the papers have been 
accusing CMU of victimizing the 
Flyers (in the semi-final, football 
playoffs for the Division III
championship in which CMU beat 
Dayton in overtime).
Anyway, Mr. Collett is hot and 
bothered that the U. of Dayton 
students were throwing toilet 
paper during a basketball game 
against Michigan and now he’s ev­
en more pissed because the local 
T.V. sports person said in his 
commentary that it’s a good 
thing; that it’s good clean college 
fun to throw toilet paper (but not 
bananas. He made that clear!) And 
then that sports person went on 
to interview two Dayton cheer­
leaders who agreed that throwing 
toilet paper can promote real 
school spirit—but bananas are nas­
ty among even nastier things, 
(they weren’t very pleased with 
the bananas) So that’s the big ex­
citement here-enjoy!
Linda Nonko (S ‘78) 
Chip Yeager (HS ‘77) 
Dayton, Ohio
Editor’s Note: The following are 
some clips from the above men­
tioned article-
“The local mèdia has taken no­
tice of the banana barrage that 
lent a bizarre and bush-league 
touch to Camegie-Mellon's up­
set of the football Flyers in the 
first game of the Division III play­
offs a few weeks ago....
“ The schoolpassed out 2,500 
free bananas to the crowd, some 
of which rained down on both 
Flyer fans and cheerleaders.
“The night before the game, 
there was a one dollar petty cash 
expenditure in our sports depart­
ment for a bunch of bananas used
in a picture accompanying Bucky 
Albers’ story calling attention to 
the banana caper before it hap­
pened. Bucky’s post-game article 
blasted C-M’s (sic) whole devious 
approach to that game.
“What the athletic department 
and the student body of the Pitts­
burgh school did was deplorable. 
It reflected discredit on them. ”
On eating squids
Editor:
Over vacation, I ate squid for 
the first time, or so I thought. 
I was traveling in Nebraska and it 
just happened to be on the menu. 
I was a little drunk on the cheap 
wine that I’d been drinking the 
afternoon prior to my meal, and 
I decided to be daring. I ordered 
the squid, and it was brought to 
me quickly; as if they didn’t want 
to keep it in the kitchen too long.
I started eating, and-the meal 
wasn’t bad. It could have been the 
wine. It could have been the com­
pany ( I was with my sister’s hus­
band’s sister). In any case, the 
squid had a fairly good taste to 
it.
But there was something so 
familiar about the dish, that 1 
was bothered by it. Was jt deja 
vu, or had I tasted squid before?
1 called over the waitress and 
asked her what type of squid it 
was that I was eating. She told 
me it was “ocean squid” and even 
brought me a piece of the wood 
carton that it came in. Sure 
enough, there on the wood car­
ton, it said “Ocean squid”. Again,
there was a familiarity to the cir­
cumstances.
Then it hit me. There was an 
ocean dinner last semester here 
at CMU, and it was sponsored 
by food service. I was sure that 
squid was part of that conglom­
eration of ocean food. I told my 
sister’s husband’s sister that I 
had eaten squid before, though 
I had not realized it, and she told 
me that college’s pull that all the 
time. They serve squid, because 
it’s cheap and plentiful.
It wasn’t a bad meal. It was 
rather tasty. But I was a bit peev­
ed that I had eaten it before with­
out being told. My point is that, if 
I wasn’t drunk (or semi-drunk) at 
the time of my second encounter 
of the first kind (ie: last semes­
ter), I wouldn’t have had the guts 
to eat it.
Therefore, I’d like to ask that 
in the future, if Food Service at 
CMU serves something, they tell 
the diners about it. I can not 
prove that it was squid I ate that 
night last semester, but I am very 
certain.
By the way, on the way back 
from Nebraska, I was passing 
through Indiana and I stopped 
at a Diner to catch some lunch. 
I saw something on the menu 
that surprised me, even appalled 
me. 1 thought back to a meal I 
ate In Morewood one night right 
after Thanksgiving. . . .but that's 
a whole other story.
Richard Lucas

---------------------------------------------------

page 4 — TARTAN — January 16, 1979
Researcher Finds Drugs Ease Aggression
Can drug use lead to violence? On the engage in bizarre, compulsive activities,
basis of extensive tests on laboratory anim- such as rocking, cleaning themselves
als, CMU psycho-pharmacologist Klaus constantly, running in circles, or staring
Miczek believes that many “recreational”- at their arms and legs. They do not par-
drugs do not cause aggressive behavior, ticipate in social activities, while othersdo
and in most cases, can actually cause 
users to become less violent--even if taken 
on a regular basis.
In laboratory experiments conducted 
over several years, Miczek has studied 
the effects of cocaine, marijuana, amphet­
amines and alcohol on colonies of rats, 
mice, and squirrel monkeys. By putting 
these animals in attack situations--where 
a new animal of the same species is placed 
in with an established colony-Miczek 
observed the normal aggressive actions 
of the resident attacker, usually the head 
of the colony.
In studying the effects of cocaine, 
Miczek found that if an adjusted dose 
is given to the resident attacker, “he 
loses his aggressive tendencies.” And at 
larger doses, “the animal becomes totally 
passive and socially withdrawn. Animals 
that receive chronic doses of cocaine 
(small doses every day for 12 weeks) 
not only lose their aggressive tendencies, 
but also show symptoms similar to those 
of a psychotic,” asserts Miczek. “They
in the colony ignore them.” He continues, 
“These same actions are exhibited by 
human cocaine and amphetamine ad­
dicts. As a matter of fact, many addicts 
entering hospitals for help are often 
mistaken for psychotics at first.”
When taken off cocaine, the animals, 
much like humans, do not experience 
any withdrawal symptoms. Miczek ex­
plains, “Unless a very large dose is given 
chronically, the animals experience very 
little, if any physical withdrawal symp­
toms, and no permanent behavioral 
changes. However, if the amimal is given 
the same dose of cocaine at a later time, 
he will react to it much more quickly and 
severely; thus, there may be some subtle 
changes that are unknown at this time.” 
In related studies, Miczek is examining 
the effects of amphetamines and aggres­
sion. “When amphetamines (such as 
speed) are given to animals in very low 
doses, the attack behavior is enhanced; the 
animals will attack sooner and more 
violently than normal. “But moderate to
high doses depress aggression.” Miczek 
continues, “Unlike cocaine users, however; 
animals and people need increasingly 
larger doses because their tolerance to 
the drug increases. For example, people 
who use diet pills to curb their appetite 
find that after a week or two their hunger 
pains return because they have built up 
a tolerance to the drug.”
Animals taking amphetamines on a reg­
ular basis show behavior close to that of 
a human psychotic. While they will inevit­
ably return to their normal state, ther^ 
is some evidence that permanent changes 
might occur in certain neurons-the func­
tional units of the nervous system.” 
In 185 experiments with mice, rats 
and monkeys, Miczek found that a. single
low dose of marijuana causes a “very 
drastic decrease in aggression, without 
altering general health, motor coordina­
tion, eating or sleeping habits.” He adds, 
“Unless consumed in very high doses, 
marijuana causes no detectable physio­
logical damage, nor does it damage the 
chromosomes or brain, as was reported 
in Congressional hearings during the late 
sixties.”
“I don’t mean to imply that people 
can take these drugs and not experience 
some problems,” Miczek warns. “My 
experiments are on animals, and, while 
they suggest some implications for humans, 
there is no proved correlation between 
the two.”
Architects Exhibit Works
continued from page 1
about how this is the first time in years 
that the whole department is coordinated. 
“It’s encouraging to see everyone working 
together,” was one student’s comment.
Almost all drawings of the works 
to be shown are being redrawn. Several 
large models of downtown sections are 
being rebuilt. The exhibit will contain 
the largest number of models of theCyert Discusses Faculty Raises
continued from page 1
Boston, San Francisco, Los Angeles and 
Cleveland (Chart A).
When CMU’s average professor’s salary 
is compared and adjusted in accordance 
with regional cost of living, as done in the 
third slide, it is found that professors are 
fifth out of the twelve schools while the 
associates and assistants are seventh. MIT 
dropped from third (in slide one) to 
twelfth after the adjustment.
The next few slides illustrated the rise in 
income of the professors for the various 
universities as compared to the comsumer 
price income. It was found that CMU pro­
fessors had a compounded increase of 34% 
from 1972 to 1974 while the consumer 
price income rose by 52%. Unfortunately, 
most of the other high rated unversities 
were not able to keep up with the increase 
of the cost of living either.
The next slide showed how CMU com­
pared to other top universities with respect 
to the fringe benefits available for the 
faculty. CMU was ninth among the twelve 
for professors, twelfth among associates
Cost of living-% rise since 1974 
Chart A
Boston 120
San Francisco 
Los Angeles 
Philadelphia 
Baltimore 
Cleveland 
Pittsburgh
Fringe Benefits
ill
103
101
100
99
96
and twelfth in the benefits available for 
assistant professors. President Cyert and 
the board of trustees have been working on 
this problem and feel that CMU’s ideal fa­
culty deserves more tax free dollars. Under 
the new plan, CMU faculty members would 
save $124 per annum for every $20,000 
earned in taxes. Negotiations are underway 
so the system will also include a dental 
plan. The new system is outlined in Chart 
B.
Some other charts compared the median 
salaries of professors in top ranked engi­
neering schools. CMU had a 0.7% better 
median than the median salary for this 
group. When the median salaries for 
management schools were compared, Car­
negie salaries were above the average by 
10.7%.
The last slides dealt with the president’s 
two major goals for the upcoming acade­
mic year. One is to raise the amount of the 
average increase of salaries by 7%. (Chart 
C) He feels that 1979 will have the most 
improved salary increase since the years 
before the inflation boom. His second goal 
is to reduce the amount of taxable dollars 
in the faculties’ salaries. The faculty will 
then be able to save more money when 
figuring their tax returns.
The salary levels at CMU are reasonable 
with regards to the school and its location. 
However, the improved quality of the fac­
ulty within the past few years, makes it 
necessary to improve the salaries and to of­
fer increased fringe benefits to the staff.
Chart B : \ i'%&&&&
The improvement of these conditions are 
difficult because of the adverse financial 
situation in the past few years. Because of 
the high rate of inflation and small invest­
ment earnings from stock, the president 
asked that the faculty continue to be co­
operative and patient in the future. Overall, 
President Cyert is very optimistic about the 
upcoming year and promises to do his best 
to bring about these changes.
Sorority Gives 
Scholarship
Each year every Delta Delta Delta 
chapter across the country gives a 
scholarship to a deserving woman on their 
campus. These individual winners are then 
eligible to win one of three $1000 awards 
given by the Tri Delta national office.
Any woman on the Carnegie-Mellon 
campus who will be continuing under­
graduate study next year is eligible for 
the local $100 scholarship. The Tri Deltas 
here raise the money for this scholarship 
through various fund raising projects. All 
interested women may pick up applications 
at Dean Cox’s office on the second floor 
of Warner Hall. Applications must be 
completed and returned to Dean Cox by 
Friday, February 9.
Average Ages and Salaries of Professors in Various Departments
(compared to scale of 100)
Golden Triangle ever assembled.
The idea of holding a public exhibition 
of student work was first conceived during 
the Spring semester of 1977. Several 
developers were interested in building a 
hotel on a vacant city block across the 
street from the new Convention Center. 
Biirt, Hill Associates (a Butler, Pa. 
architectural firm) gave the department 
of architecture funds to help sponsor 
an exhibit of designs by the senior studio. 
Towards the end of the semester, how­
ever, Burt, Hill decided that they would 
prefer to see the funds used as prizes for a 
student competition.
Before that time the department had 
very few project sites in downtown 
Pittsburgh, but since then the Golden 
Triangle has become more and more 
popular as the department had increased 
its emphasis on urban design. Since the 
hotel projects, students have designed 
a Cultural Exhibition Center, a Faculty 
Clyb for Point Park College, a Co-op’s 
Crafts Factory, a downtown branch for 
Carnegie Library, a visitors center, and 
most recently designs for the Heinz Hall 
Plaza site, On a larger scale there have 
been master schemes for redeveloping 
the area between the Monongahela River 
and the Boulevard of the Allies and a 
multi-faceted celebration of Pittsburgh’s 
industry.
The City of Pittsburgh’s Department 
of City Planning and the Urban 
Redevelopment Authority have supplied 
visiting critics to the Architecture 
Department to assist the students in 
their work. While the increased awareness 
by the department of Architecture in 
downtown Pittsburgh has no direct 
relationship to any other program, the 
Urban Redevelopment Authority is the 
primary sponsor of the show, with a 
genreous grant.
Chart C
¦
Academic Year Salary 
Retirement payment by CMU
(5% x $4,800) + (7.5% x $15,200)
Flexible Benefit Program
Benefit Pool
$20,000 
$ 1,380
$ 1,380
Medical Plan$487
Life Insurance$ 60
Parking$ 25
Subtotal$647
Retirement$733
Total Uses$ 1380
Department
Architecture 
SUPA
Biology 
Chemistry 
Math
Physics 
Humanities 
Psychology
Average Ages and Salaries of Professors in Engineering
Survey
Age
49
, Survey|MfiCMU
SalaryAge §Salary
100té S3 .79 3WfSh100si ;106.9• 39
1004999.851
10049 «9253
1004897.349
1005090.150
1005285.753
too509748
CMU
EngineeringSalary
Chemical100
Civil :100
Electrical100
SalaryAge
91.9'47
106.549
103.4.49
94

---------------------------------------------------

LET Ui> VJORK 50ME MA61C FOR VOU///
125 Part-time jobs 
Room 58 Skibo 
Ext. X3535
Funded by Student Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

page 6 — TARTAN — January 16, 1979
Senate Report:
Calendar Provokes Debate
Security has beefed up its studept escort service by hiring students and leasing a van from the 
Athletic Department.
Student Escorts Expanded
by Scott Sibley
At the First Senate meeting, the major 
discussion was about the University’s 
tentative calendar for the next three years.
The administration proposes that there 
be one full week for finals each semester 
with no reading period, and the First day 
of classes coincide with Enrollment day. 
In 1981, the Fall semester is scheduled 
to begin on August 31 because Labor Day 
that year will be September 7, and the 
administration feels it is too late to start 
a semester then.
The Academic Affairs committee will 
meet with Dr. Schatz (vice-president for 
Academic Affairs) to discuss possible 
alterations. Some ideas suggested were 
the removal of the half-day holiday at 
Homecoming to lengthen the Fall sem­
ester, the provision of a reading day for 
Finals, and that the 1981 schedule begin 
after Labor Day and run later in December
The following is a memorandum from 
Bill Dillon, Director of Auxiliary Services, 
concerning the number of unauthorized 
parking in permit lots:
In recent weeks there has been a sig­
nificant increase in unauthorized parking 
in university permit areas. Several incidents 
have occurred where individuals have in­
vited guests to the university and used their 
gate card to provide access for the guest. 
The practice has become frequent enough 
that there is often insufFicient space in the 
lot for the permit holders who are paying.
to about the 23rd.
A letter will be sent to President Cyert 
concerning the tuition increase as it relates 
to President Carter’s Wage and Price Guide­
lines. This letter will be appearing in the 
TARTAN at a later date.
There are several vacancies in Senate. 
A seat is open in CIT, H&SS, and CFA. 
These seats will be filled by petition. In­
terested students should contact Mike In- 
ners or pick up a petition at the Skibo 
Information Desk.
The Vice-Chairperson, Gina Hull, did 
not return to the University this semester. 
Elections for a new Vice-Chairperson will 
be held at the next Senate meeting, tonight 
at 7:00 PM in the Wherrett Room.
The Hamerschlag Solar Energy project 
and a door monitor desk for Mudge will be 
investigated by the General Campus & In­
formation committee.
to park there.
Please be advised and advise your guests 
that present university policy is to tow un­
authorized vehicles from permit areas 
when necessary to guarantee sufFicient 
space for permit holders.
Guests should be encouraged to 
use metered areas which have been set 
aside for their use. Visitor’s permits are 
available through the Parking Office. When 
possible the Parking Office will make 
special arrangements for special situations.
by Andrew Ragan
A major security program being ex­
panded at CMU in response to many recent 
outbreaks of violence and crime in the 
campus vicinity, Oakland, and Shadyside 
has been announced by Captain of Secur­
ity, Andrew Kocis. The program is called 
the Student Escort Service, and differs 
from the escort service offered last semes- 
ter in that it employs students in addition 
to security officers, and has expanded 
hours.
After having received Safe Driver’s 
Training, while learning vehicle safety and 
the locations of campus buildings, dorms, 
and surrounding communities, student em­
ployees began on January 8 to walk or 
drive students around the area in the late 
hours.
“The late hours,” by Security’s defini­
tion begin at 9:00 PM and end at 2:00 AM. 
seven nights a week, escorts stationed 
at the Security Office in 155 Baker Hall 
will be available to students here. On- 
campus escorts (which include all loca­
tions in the immediate CMU vicinity, a- 
long with the Shirley Apartments and Mel­
ton Institute) will be run for the full five 
hour time period. However, off-campus 
runs will be conducted only from 11:00 
PM to 2:00 AM. The off-campus escorts 
willv extend to areas approximately one 
mile from campus, and encompasses an 
estimated 6 to 8 mile area. Security of­
ficers will continue to escort students from 
the time it gets dark until the student es­
corts take over at 9:00.
The program is designed primarily to 
provide personal safety for all members of 
the CMU community. Students are encour­
aged to utilize this service after dark. Cap­
tain Kocis maintained, however, that the 
program is not a personal bus or free taxi 
service, and that such abuse would damage 
the program’s effectiveness and could re­
sult in cut-backs. He also noted that the 
call monitors may use their ojvn discretion 
in deciding whether a student’s escort 
needs are legitimate. The service is open to 
both males and females.
A van which seats 11 passengers has 
been made available by the Athletic Office 
for the program in cooperation with the 
University and the Security Office. The 
«escorts will be in ditect communications 
with Security (via radio and walkie talkie) 
at all times, and backed by security vans 
and officers in case of emergency. The stu­
dent workers have been told to watch for 
suspicious characters and to report on any 
dangerous situations.
The number to call for the Student 
Escort Service is 578-2323.
R.A.' s Given 
Safety Methods
continued from page 1
friends who may visit.
3. Key Control and Safeguarding Keys:
a. Don’t lend keys to anyone.
b. Don’t leave keys lying around your 
room, office or classroom.
' c. Report lost keys to Housing or Secur­
ity.
4. Avoid going alone to secluded areas at 
all times. Always have a friend accompany 
you, (basement, laundry, etc.).
What to Report on Campus
1. Report any strangers in parked cars, 
trucks or on foot around or in the dormi­
tory or the buildings.
2. Report anyone asking phoney informa­
tion or acting strangely.
3. Call Security immediately whenever you
suspect a problem. Don’t wait untM you are 
tore-it may be too late. £ IM P
Parking "Guests" Warned
photo by Darren Shaw

---------------------------------------------------

FEATURES
A Mothers Message to Her Son
-» »— w¿>ne Isimhn n frpshmnn rht>rnirnl pnoineprina vtiirivnt fmm \A)oat J/irain. ~ , .1 »• . ,11 At . ____1 _Editor’s Note: Jens Lamba, a freshman chemical engineering student from West Virgin­
ia has given the TARTAN permission to print the following piece. It is a letter from his 
mother, Mrs. Else Lamba, and was given to Jens when he arrived here at school back in 
September. As the New Year begins, the insights and emotion in this letter become 
meaningful to all students. The TARTAN would like to thank Jens, and Mrs. Lamba 
for allowing this letter to be shared with the campus community.
The day we leave you off at the dorm at college, I know there will be too many 
things left unsaid that I would wish you to remember; so I am writing them down as I 
think of them. Many are repetitions, I know, but bear with me nonetheless and read 
this letter some time when you have a few minutes to spare.
The year we sent your brother and sister off to college and I looked around at all the 
other worried parents a funny thought occurred to me: here was a unique collection of 
people; for at least 18 years they had struggled so hard, wanting so much to do their 
best and not always being sure what theif best might be. It was as if for all those years 
they had been building a ship and now that they were launching it, they wondered if it 
was sea-worthy. Fortunately, the native timbers are good and solid and we find that 
sea-worthiness is an instinct..
Now that you have graduated from high school and left home for good, only to 
spend occasional periods of time with us again, you will have made the greatest change 
in your life. You may never feel as keenly that one era has come to an end and another 
is beginning, new vistas opening up.
Although you are just 18 years old, you will be regarded as an adult, with the free­
dom to do -your own thing. But freedom is not totally free. You will find it comes 
with restrictions in the form of obligations and responsibilities. And you will learn that 
this is the way of the world: there has to be a balance in all things. However, it should 
be the person who through his own free will and his own thoughtful decision acknow­
ledges his own limits rather than letting society impose on him the standard rules and 
limitations. When you realize that, your freedom is totally yours.
Have you ever asked yourself why you are going on and acquiring more education? 
At your age I am sure that I could not have put it into words. I am still not too good 
at it, but let me try.
There are two kinds of learning basically: There is what you might call “book learn­
ing”. That is essential to make a place in the world for yourself. You must acquire a 
certain amount of “know-how” towards this end, but please don’t stop there. That is 
just a set of tools you will have acquired. You will need these tools to carve a niche for 
yourself, to become a productive member of your community.
Your really essential education started long ago and will hopefully go on for the 
rest of your life. It is that part of your learning that has taught you to think; to see 
things more clearly; to distinguish between the essential and the trivial; to give you a 
fund of experiences and knowledge that will enable you to integrate all aspects of life 
as a basis for your judgment of the world around you. It covers a broad spectrum of 
knowledge and in order to maintain and enrich it, you must leave yourself open to in­
quiry into many fields. It is with a broad basis of understanding that your perspective
of things that matter, is solidly based and does not become distorted. In other words, 
this is the basis for wisdom. And that is what true education does for a person.
Although we live in a man made or technological world, do not ignore Philosophy 
or Religion or fine Writing or Poetry. It may enable you to cope with the stresses of 
living and give you strength of character during the times when life leaves you strand­
ed. Education should also give you a foundation or an ability to enjoy the Arts in their 
many forms. When someone once told me that creativity is really an attempt to fill a 
void, it troubled me greatly. I have thought much about it and now know that he was 
wrong. It is a desire to reflect our innermost feelings about the world, a reaching be­
yond our humanness.
But let me get back to education. Learning sheer fact is not all education. The three 
R’s do not constitute education any more than a knife, fork, and a spoon constitute a 
dinner. Some of the greatest bores you might meet, are people who have memorized a 
great deal of information and love to talk about it.
The aim of any good educational institution should be to give students a living fund 
of knowledge from which they may generate ideas. When you bring relevant back­
ground to bear on a problem, assemble pertinent data, grasp relationships, appraise the 
values involved, and make a judgment; when you can do that, you are an educated per­
son. Let your mind be ever open to thoughts and ideas. But you will not learn if you 
accept facts without questioning, by accepting words instead of trying to understand 
ideas.
Along with this constant acquiring of facts and processing of information, you 
should not qverlook the most important aspect of your life: YOU as an individual. 
You as the individual is the innermost core of you that gives you steadfastness 
throughout your progress through life. It is the quiet corner of your soul where only 
you are admitted, where you can dream impossible dreams, where you are absolute 
master; it is that absolute unique combination of circumstances and vital energy that 
constitute You. - The society of today values mediocrity above excellence and pres­
sures us to become “people without faces,” products of conformity. When someone 
tells you that you do not conform, hold on to your knowledge of your own individual 
uniqueness; you must feel at home with yourself, because sometimes the price paid for 
conformity is' alienation from yourself, from your own true core, from your soul.
One of the greatest writers and thinkers that I have been fortunate to read in the or­
iginal language is Henrik Ibsen. The original language rolls like the thunder of the 
Norse Sagas. His most important works are really not known in the English speaking 
world. But let me quote a part of Brand, an epic, in the best translation that I could 
firid *Be passion’s slave, be pleasure’s thrall,—
But be it utterly, all in all!
Be not today, tomorrow, one,
Another when a year is gone;
Be what you are with all your heart,
And not by pieces and in part.
The Bacchant’s clear, defined, complete, 
The sot, his sordid counterfeit;
Silenus charms; but all his graces 
The dtunkard’s parody debases.
Traverse the land from beach to beach,
Try every man in heart and soul,
You’ll find he has no virtue whole, 
but just a little grain of each.
A little pious in the pew.
A little grave,-his father’s way,—
Over a cup a little gay,—
It was his father’s fashion too!
A little warm when glasses clash,
And stormy cheer and song go round 
For the small Folk, rock-will’d, rock-bound, 
That never stood the scourge and lash.
A little free in promise-making;
And then, when vows in liquor will’d 
Must be in mortal stress fulfill’d,
A little fine in promise-breaking.
Yet, as I say, all fragments still 
His faults, his merits, fragments all,
Partial in good, partial in ill.
Partial in great things and in small;—
But here’s the grief—that, worst or best, 
Each fragment of him wrecks the rest!
continued on page 9
"The three R’s do not constitute 
education any more than a knife, 
fork, and a spoon constitute a 
dinner. ”
The above was a West Virginia 
mother s thoughts to her son, as he 
left for his freshman year at CMU. 
I The following poem is the 
.thoughts of a Connecticut mother 
I to herself concerning• the same ex­
perience.
When you were small 
Many times I went, 
Just to check if 
You were t here.
Now I wish 
For only a look.
To see for luysctf^ 
-Htntfltn e mui a re.
.
But. you’re gone. 
Grown and gone.
I always said 
You’d grow and leave. 
But saying and 
Happening are different.
i know we fought 
And disagreed.
I miss even that.
The stomach ache.
I wait for your clomp 
Up the stairs.
Never made for 
Steps like yours.
I wait to see 
The curly head,
The bearded boy 
I love so much.
But, you’re gone. 
Grown and gone.
How did it happen?
So fast,and
Right before my eyes.
I don’t understand.
Now you’re on your own, 
With just a little 
Help from me.
I wish you luck.
I know I’m glad 
You’re grown.
Healthy,-strong, confident. 
Gone — that’s another story.
Come back sometimes,
I miss you so.
Love,
Mother

---------------------------------------------------

WRCT88.3 FM
BACK ON THE AIR 
20 HRS. 
COME ON DOWN 
AND IOIN 
US
578-2883SKI BO 46 B 621-WRCT
by Sherry Siegel
CMU’s resident psycho-pharmacologist 
Klaus Miczek has made the big time with 
his recent pronouncement that cocaine 
makes rats, mice, and squirrel monkeys 
passive, socially withdrawn, and, if the 
dose is right, appear psychotic.
On my way up to interview Dr. Mic­
zek, I was stopped by a shaggy-looking 
young man wearing a stylish gold coke 
spoon on a chain around his neck. “Clyde 
M. Feelgood’s the name,” he said, “Mic- 
zek’s assistant. Call me ‘Speed.’ If you talk 
to Klaus you’ll just get what you’ve already 
heard; if you talk to me, you’ll get a good 
story — the real dope, if you’ll pardon the 
pun.”
He glanced around shiftily and motion­
ed me into his tiny office. I sat down on a 
small bean bag chair in thé corner, next 
to two rats dozing in a cage littered with 
tiny rat-sized roaches.
‘The thing is,” Speed said 
conspiratorially, “we’ve known for years 
how these drugs affect lab animals. What^ 
Klaus isn’t telling is that we know how 
they affect humans, too. Well, students, 
actually.”
“Really?” I took out my notepad. 
“Would you mind putting on the regular 
light instead of the black light so I can take 
notes?”
“Sure thing. For years — mind if I
smoke? — we’ve been systematically dosing 
students from the different colleges here 
with these drugs. So we know not only 
how students respond, but how students in 
different majors respond.”
“You mean there’s a difference between 
how an art student, for example, responds 
to marijuana and how an AMS major re­
sponds?”
“Absolutely. Care for a drag? Govern­
ment-inspected Grade A Colombian.” 
“No, thanks.”
“We set up the experiment by giving 
a randomly selected group of students in 
each college measured doses of either 
coke, pot, or speed.”
“How’d you get permission to do that?” 
He flicked an imagined bug off the Zap­
pa poster above his desk. “Permission? We 
just asked some freshmen if they wanted a 
guaranteed four years of passing grades, a 
degree and job offers in their chosen field, 
plus a lot of fun. No one turned the offer 
down.”
‘That explains how some students seem 
to goof off for four years yet still manage 
to graduate.”
“You betcha. So of two sets of results, 
the first applies to the experimental group 
as a whole, as compared to the control 
group — students we didn’t approach with 
that offer. Just like with the animals, coke 
continued on page 9
CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
Campus Program Planning and the Department of Residence Life 
present an eight part Human Sexuality Program. All programs will 
be held in the Wherrett Room, Skibo at 8:00 P.M. and are open to the 
campus at no charge. Speakers will include professional doctors and 
counselors from the CMU and Pittsburgh area.
Mon. Jan. 22 Biological Development of Sexual Systems
Thurs. Jan. 25 Psychological Development of Sexual Systems Mon. Jan. 29 Taking Care of and Understanding Your Sexual
Systems
Thur. Feb. i What Happens During Sex?
Mon. Feb. 5 Birth Control, Pregnancy and Abortion
Thur. Feb. 8 Sexual Health
Mon. Feb. 12 Alternate Life Styles I
Thur. Feb. 15 New Issues: Test Tube Babies, Cloning, etc.

---------------------------------------------------

At Scott, we believe that the best training 
we can give you is experience in putting your 
ideas to work Since we know that personal 
growth is your goal, achievement of that goal is 
realized through doing Experience comes from 
doing—putting your ideas to work, enjoying respon 
sibilitv and accepting accountability
Each year, as determined, committed'college 
grads join us. they bring new talents with them We 
put these talents to the test immediately and willingly 
accept their challenges
Because we recognize individual differences, 
our approach is to build on your existing skills—to 
enable you to start doing
When does the training stop'’ It never does 
Scott Pape' Company is an equal opportunity 
employe' m/I
Contact vun placement of'ice tor inform,itionSCOTT
January 16, 1979 — TARTAN — page 9
woods by myself. I was at peace with myself and the world. I lay down on a grassy 
spot, gazing into the tops of the trees. And I had the strangest sensation of being sus­
pended in air, weightless and timeless. I was only limited by my own human limita­
tion. But the roots of the trees, though unknowable to me, were there, deep below me. 
And the tops of the trees, in constant movement, were equally unknowable. And 
though the vision was bewildering then, I understood that I was at that point in the 
mainstream of an unlimited life force or energy, and that if the meaning of it escaped 
me, the limitations were mine, and mine alone.
I hope that throughout life I shall be fortunate enough to draw on that life force or 
vital energy. Although we may not understand it or prove it with scientific methods, 
we may define it and strive for the Omega Point as Teilhard de Chardin calls it.
In the meantime, treat life tenderly; it is fragile.
continued from page 8
or pot makes them passive — mellow is the 
term we use for it; And speed makes them 
violent — hyper, we say. High doses of 
coke and speed lead to psychotic behavior, 
and a serious speeder can go through the 
cycle from hyper to mellow to psychotic.” 
“Hyper-mellow Psychotic. Sounds like a 
Baskin-Robbin flavor.”
“But what’s really amazing is the second 
set of results, the differences within the 
experimental group, by college or major. 
When art students get mellow, either from 
pot or. coke, they use more pastel colors 
and do soft sculpture with fiber and kapok 
stuffing. Mellowed-out psych majors tend 
to quote from books like I’m OK You're 
OK, and they like reading Rod McKuen 
and Hallmark cards. Mellow AMS and 
«, GS1A students are the worst. They lose all 
their capitalistic drive and want to become 
farmers. Lucky for them especially that 
they’re guaranteed passing grades.”
“What about students on speed?” 
“Music majors have been known to 
smash their instruments when they’re hy­
per. Comp Sci majors pick fights with the 
computer. Design students stab each other 
with their t-squares. A melee broke out re­
cently in one of the studios that was just 
awful.”
Mom
“Any unusual findings?”
“Yes, in fact. The coked-out drama stu­
dent will only accept bit parts, which is 
as expected. But when we increase their 
dosage to the point where they 
should become psychotic, they just exhibit 
normal behavior.”
“That’s fascinating. I don’t understand 
why Dr. Miczek doesn’t tell the media a- 
bout these experiments also.”
“Well,” Speed sighed, “the information 
is totally useless. Who gets high off govern­
ment-inspected Grade A Colombian? No 
one. The average Joe in the street smokes 
cheap Mexican dusted with paraquat, 
snorts coke cut with sugar, and uses impure 
speed.”
“So what you’re doing in these labs just 
has no application to normal drug usage.” 
‘That’s right.”
“All you’re doing here is bringing in 
money and prestige for CMU, and keeping 
some students, rats, mice, and squirrel 
monkeys happy.”
“True. But you forgot the most im­
portant thing we’re doing.”
“What’s that?”
“Helping some students graduate who, 
without our help, never would have lasted 
past freshman year.”
A Mothers Message
continued from p?ge 7
The idea that Society—like Big Brother—knows best, is what the great majority of 
people succumb to. To do otherwise will require all your deepest resources within 
yourself, your faith in yourself and your own good judgment and a great deal of
courage.
When you remain steadfast in this knowledge, you will not become bewildered by 
change or panic by what the world might call misfortune. Ifyouknow who you are, it 
is easy to decide where you are going and what actions you want to take under the cir­
cumstances. You will have a Vital Energy—and don’t squander it on inessential aspects 
of life-that will carry you through.
As I said in the beginning of this letter, this will be the greatest change in your life. 
But perhaps it is an even greater change for me. I am also graduating. I shall not often 
have the task of your physical care any more, although I shall hope that I can closely 
follow your emotional and intellectual growth. I realise that for me the change also 
means that I shall have more time to ponder my own life, to try to understand the Es­
sence of Being. After all, I have lived about two thirds of my life already, and now is as 
good a time as ever to try to understand what life is all about:
I would like to know 
what this show 
is all about before 
it’s out. '
I firmly believe that one strong desire urging us on in life is a search for immortali­
ty, a strong desire to have some kind of influence on our immediate environment. 
Some of us solely find it through our children; for me that is not enough. I shall never 
stop searching for my own impact on the world around me. Don’t you either. It can 
take many forms. Some have found it in great inventions. Some have found their im­
pact in other ways: like great art to lift the spirit, or in service to mankind, either on a 
grand scale like Albert Schweitzer, or in a simple everyday manner.
The most important quality you can display in your dealings with others is Re­
spects; respect for that person’s place and achievement in life. Also, for Love to thrive, 
the foundation must be respect for the other person’s needs and feelings, be it your 
life’s companion or your children or anyone you have contact with. We are all on a 
journey through time, we are all needing different things at different times; life is a con 
stant movement, hopefully forward. I am not thinking of material things, but of the 
“within” of a person. “There is a season and a time for every person under heaven...”
And do listen to people. Even simple persons have a story to tell that is worthwhile 
to learn from.—You have an inexhaustible store of kind words and friendly smiles. Use 
them generously. When you least expect it and most need it, you will meet your own 
smiles coming back to greet you.
The closest I have ever come to taking “a trip,” is when I was young and out in the
by Elliot Ohlberg
Any female student who is a junior and 
plans or hopes to study abroad this sum­
mer is encouraged to apply for the Vira 
1. Heinz Travel Award. The winner will 
receive a $2500 check from the Pittsburgh 
Foundation as a result of a gift by Mrs. 
Heinz, a Trustee Emerita of Carnegie- 
Mellon.
The goal of the award is to encourage 
more study abroad. The desired effect of 
the recipient is for them “to gain first­
hand knowledge of international under­
standing and share their experiences with 
other members of the University com­
munity when they return” for their senior 
year. - '
Dean Lois Cox last week said that the 
Selection Committee does not yet have 
enough applicants to consider. Appli­
cations are available in her office, Warner 
Hall 204, and must be returned there by 
January 31. The winner will be announced 
shortly after all candidates are interviewed 
on February 15. The application does re­
quire a couple short essays and personal 
references.
Dean Cox said the decision is “based on 
the applicants seriousness of purpose on 
wanting to go abroad,” and has little to 
do with financial need.
The si/e of the award had grown stead­
ily since its inception at CMU in 1967, 
when it was only SI000. In the past, the 
winners have been representative of most 
disciplines, though there has not been an 
awardee from the Mellon Institute of 
Science. The countries which have been 
visited include Austria. Fiance, England, 
Greece, Mexico, Italy, and others. In 
addition to CMU, ten other colleges in 
Pennsylvania have Vira L. Hein/ Awards. 
These schools are: Pitt. Duquesne. Chath­
am, Washington and Jefferson, Thiel, 
Bethany, Wilberforce, Beaver, Waynes- 
hurg, and Temple.
Money Offered

---------------------------------------------------

page 10-TARTAN - January 16, 1979
Last year we saw the revival of the su­
perstar as John Travolta, John Belushi, 
Billy Joel and that wild and crazy guy, 
Steve Martin showed us that the American 
dream is alive and well. 1978 was the year 
of the test-tube baby, ‘Animal House’, 
Proposition 13, clones, Elvis impersona­
tors, and those bad boys, the New York 
Yankees. In this past year, if everything 
else wasn’t enough, Pete Rose entered the 
greedy free market race, proving that even 
baseball is sacred no more.
At CMU, we saw also both good and 
bad. We all couldn’t but feel pride that our 
own Dr. Herbert Simon, won his most de­
served Nobel prize for Economics. If CMU 
were to choose a “Man of the Year” for 
1978, the only logical choice would have 
been Dr. Herbert Simon. His dedication 
and perserverence should serve as a source 
of pride and inspiration for us all. Who will 
ever forget * the pride that the mighty 
Tartans football team gave us in 1978? The 
stunning victory over Dayton precipitated 
by SARC’s fantastic and crazy “Banana 
Campaign” gave us an afternoon of fun and 
spirit that had not been matched in de­
cades. On the other hand, CMU turned out 
to be an institution like any other. Dr. 
Cyert ceased having the ability to keep tui­
tion down. His magical powers of the past 
seemed to disappear with the advent of a 
$700 tuition increase in two years. Imagine 
that for 1979-1980 the cost of a CMU ed­
ucation will be over $7200.
While almost every department and 
every college within CMU made mistakes 
last year, none was as visible, disappointing 
and embarrassing as the H&SS decision to 
dismiss Professor Martin Russ following 
this term. For any student who has been 
fortunate enough to have him, Professor
ÀND ££>vm
Looking Back on 1978
by Frederic J. Siegel
How does one begin to look backwards 
at 1978? Where do you start? It seems like 
the new year came just as we were becom­
ing accustomed to the old one. One has 
hardly recovered from 1978 but here we 
are beginning the final year of a decade 
that will enevitably be remembered as one 
of violence, tragedy, surprise and all too 
often, hopelessness.
A great many events shaped the world 
last year. Some of them good, most of 
them not so good. The most promising 
sign if there was one is that the world 
survived. In our age of uncertainty, sur­
vival has to count for something. If hope 
was evident in 1978, it shined its greatest 
moment when Jimmy Carter seemed to 
bring prospects for a Middle East settle­
ment close at hand in the secluded forrest 
of Camp David. Seeing Menachem Begin 
and Anwar Sadat emerge in an embrace 
was surely one of the most captivating 
moments of the year. Whether or not the 
President’s decision to recognize 
Communist China was a popular action, it 
should serve to solve the economic stagna­
tion that has plagued the world and could 
signal a new age of international coopera­
tion. On the Russian frorit, Cyrus Vance 
and Andrei Gromyko brought our two 
countries closer to a SALT Agreement, a 
certain sign that better times might exist. 
After a disasterous beginning, even Jii. y 
Carter’s Presidency showed signs of c 1- 
ibility.
However, while President Carter was 
patting himself on the back for his accomp­
lishments in the Middle East and China, 
events in Iran added cause for feelings of 
hopelessness and instability. With the Shah 
inevitably on his way out, Iran is surely to 
be the catalyst for a year of oil shortages 
and price increases, inflation, and political 
unrest throughout the world. How could 
we have been so foolish or so unrealistic to 
believe as late as August of 1978 that the 
Shah would squash the disruptive elements
in Iran. It was our foolish optimism that 
served to precipitate the crisis in Iran. Had 
we been a little more perceptive and given 
assistance when the chaos began, this 
disaster might have been averted. In any 
case, without a doubt, Iran could present 
the most serious problem we face in 1979.
In 1978, who could forget the painful 
and totally shocking photographs of 900 
sprawled out bodies in Guyana? Or whal 
about the terror of the Red Brigade in Italy 
and their subsequent assassanation of 
statesman Aldo Moro. Violence became a 
way of life throughout the world as even in 
our own country, violent crimes rose to 
over 65% of what they were in 1977. 1978 
was a year in which we saw the loss of 
some truly great individuals. Some of the 
humanity and stability they contributed 
was lost forever when Golda Meir, Senator 
Hubert Humphrey, and Margaret Mead 
made their departures. 1978 saw the un­
welcomed return of Richard Nixon to pub­
lic life just as we were trying to forget 
about the pain that Watergate had left us.
KftuIT
wtamm
PR£C.SION HAIRCUTTERS
HAIRCUTS
(Wash-Cut-Blow)
Mon. Tues. Med. 10-7 
Thurs. Fri. 10-9 
Sat. 9-6
COLORING
237 ATWOOD STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 15213 
687-3500
UNISEX HAIR SALON
PERMANENT^
No
Appointments
FRIDAY, January 19, 1979
The chartered bus will leave Skibo parking lot 
at 3*30 P.M. and will return at approximately 
1*00 A.M.
The cost for the bus and lift ticket is $13.00 
and rental is an additional $4.25.
If you are interested, sign up will be at the 
Skibo Information Desk this week.
For more information, please contact*
Neil 687-^782 
Leroy 578-4231 
Carla 578-4226 
SEE YOU THERE !
Funded by Student Senate!
Russ is clearly the best English teacher in 
this university. It’s a pity that often mind­
less administrators become so involved 
with their bureaucratic rhetoric that they 
begin believing it and inevitably lose com­
plete touch with the authentic desires of 
the student body. In 1978, rather than 
build on the positive elements at CMU, our 
administrators made at the very least a 
mockery of college education. Perhaps in 
1979, they will regain some of the sensitiv­
ity that they seemed to be missing in the 
past.
1978 is dead and buried. It might haunt 
us, but if we try real hard, we don’t have to 
look back. Looking backwards only makes 
us sorry for not doing what we had the 
ability to do all along. What’s more impor­
tant is to take the lessons of the past year, 
run like hell, and make 1979 a little bit 
better.
To all loyal Pittsburgh Steeler fans, I ex­
tend my full apologies for remarks made 
last year. The Steelers are truly a great and 
outstanding team. On Super Bowl Sunday 
however, we will all find out just how great 
thev are!
Af Great X..you don't get what you pay for
That's right. You get the haircut. 
But, we keep the hair. Unless, of 
course, you're stuffing pillows in 
your basement as a sideline. In 
which case, we'll put youF shear­
ings in a plain brown bag for you 
to take home.
Most guys and gals, however, are
mainly interested in the hair we 
leave uncut, because that's what 
says who they are.
At Great Ex we help get your 
head together. . .with your hair. 
No appointments needed either.
Just come in.
is having a
SEVEN SPRINGS ! I

---------------------------------------------------

JANUARY 16, 1979/VOLUME Ill/ISSUt 15 
THE MILLION DOLLAR OFFER J|
THE MILLION DOLLAR OFFER
by Je'i Zas'n^A 
Wc.,u Wj. could have ended in May 1940. 
The United States, without sending one man into 
battle, would have gone down in history as the 
country that saved the world from a second Great 
War. The German Fuehrer would have been put 
on trial for his crimes against the peace and dig­
nity of the world, and no doubt, would have been 
found guilty. Samuel Harden Church, President of 
Carnegie Institute, and a Pittsburgh 'institution' 
in his own right, would have been the world's 
hero, and Adolf Hitler, the captured Fuehrer, 
would most certainly have been hanged.
It was Dr. Church who captured the attention 
and imagination of the world by writing a simple, 
straightforward letter;
To The Editor of The New York limes: 
In order to prevent further bloodshed and out­
rage in this war of the German aggression, I am 
authorized by competent Americans to offer a 
reward of $1,000,000 to be paid in cash to the 
person or persons who will deliver Adolf Hitler, 
alive, unwounded and unhurt, into the custody 
of the League of Nations for trial before a high 
court of justice for his crimes against the peace 
and dignity of the world. This proposal will 
stand good through the month of May, 1940.
Samuel Harden Church 
President, The Carnegie Institute 
Pittsburgh 
April 29, 1940
On May I, 1940, The New York /imes headlined 
the offer on its front page, and the story was im­
mediately broadcast around the world. But Sam­
uel Church had some explaining to do. His letter 
was too brief. His scheme was too wild. His re­
ward was too exciting. His call for adventure was 
simply too thrilling. The world turned for a mo­
ment from the mushrooming struggle in Europe, 
and looked to Pittsburgh where Dr. Church out­
lined his proposal.
He said that the offer was made in good faith 
by a group of Pittsburgh residents and the money 
would be paid without cavil to any qualified 
claimant. He said that the group backing the pro­
ject was not over-optimistic about the chances of 
capturing Hitler, but still thought that even a slim 
possibility was worth encouraging, because the 
capture of Hitler would avert untold suffering.
When Dr. Church was asked why he made the 
offer he said that his group had received private 
advice from Europe that Hitler would soon 
mount an attack on the Western Front, even at 
the cost of 500,000 German lives.
'This offer is for the month of May only," 
Church said,"The purpose of that limitation is to 
make sure that seekers after the reward will act 
quickly,.
'The question of offering the reward has been 
under discussion by a group of members of the 
Duquesne Club here for two or three months. Fi­
nally, the project has taken shape, and I was se­
lected to make the offer public. There are in the 
group of present sponsors, about fifty persons, 
some of them women."
Church went on to say that there was power in 
the idea, especially because it was not a reward 
for an assasination. Although Church had specifi­
ed that Hitler be delivered to the League of Na­
tions, he was afraid that if the Fuehrer would be 
brought to the League seat in Switzerland, the en­
tire country would be overrun by the German Ar­
my.
'The proper goal would be England," he said, 
"and what a magnificent precedent it would be 
hereafter if any adventurer made war upon a 
peaceful world. That precedent would say that 
such a man would be held personally responsible 
for his crime and would be executed in punish­
ment for it.
"I believe in my heart," Dr. Church continued, 
'That Mr. Hitler should be held as a common en­
emy of mankind and brought to justice according­
ly. He is consumed with the desire of conquering 
the world for the mere pleasure of conquering the 
world."
When Church was asked whether he was mak- 
in the offer in his capacity as President of the Car­
negie Institute, he answered:
"I see no objection to my making the offer as 
president of the institute. It chimes perfectly with

---------------------------------------------------

page 12 - TARTAN - January 16, 1979
the ideals of Andrew Carneqie. After all, he 
founded a peace organization. And he firmly be­
lieved in an association of the nations with power 
to enforce peace."
Mr. Church said that he hoped the offer would 
inspire youthful adventurers to go after Hitler, 
and then concluded by saying,
'The sponsors of the plan have not deposited 
checks, nor have there been any formal signatures 
as pledges. The commitments have all been by 
word of mouth.But they come from a group well 
able to supply $1,000,000 for such a purpose. By 
agreement, no names other than my own are be­
ing made public."
With those words, Colonel Dr. Samuel Harden 
Church departed for a brief stay at his vacation 
home in Ligonier, Pa., and declined to talk about 
the offer again until June.
However, people everywhere were already talk­
ing, and their opinions and reactions made inter­
esting reading on editorial pages around the 
world. Many found the offer ridiculous, but ama­
teur kidnappers began their planning with vigor, 
spirit and greed.
The State Deparment in Washington warned 
that such an act could be in violation of the neu­
trality enactments which prevented U.S. citizens 
from getting involved in a foreign war. (The U.S.
was still 18 months from declaring war.) The 
White House refused to comment.
TARTAN FOUO
JANUARY 16,1979/VOLUME lll/ISSUE 15: 
THE MILLION DOLLAR OFFER
EDITOR: K. A. YAKSICH 
ASSISTANT EDITOR: FRED LA POINTE 
ART DIRECTOR: LISA AMOWITZ
CONTRIBUTING ARTISTS: JEFF ZASLOW
Cover and inside photos and captions from a 
propaganda packet recovered from a Nazi sol­
dier by the author's father.
Tin: MILLION I KM.I. Mi DM
Reactions in Congress were mixed. Some Con­
gressmen were in favor of having the reward 
doubled but others found it "silly and absurd.'' 
Representative Hamilton Fish of New York fear­
ed the Nazis would launch a reprisal by putting a 
reward on Roosevelt's head. There was nothing to 
fear, however. The German Embassy in Washing­
ton found it all amusing and said the offer should 
have been made on April Fools Day instead of 
May Day.
The New York Herald Tribune, on May 2, 
wrote an editorial which concluded,
'The impulse which prompted Samuel Harden 
Church was an understandable one. Acting upon 
it was an incredible stupidity."
The London Daily Mirror, on the same day 
wrote, in reference to Church's request for Hitler 
"alive and unharmed",
"Why all this sissy concern about not wound­
ing the dirty dog? Andrew Carnegie was a tough 
old nut but cheap publicity gags were not exactly 
his line of business. Let Church stop the humbug 
and stick to his free libraries."
The British government also scoffed at the of­
fer. One official said,
"We have been spending $30,000,000 daily for 
the last eight months to get Hitler. What is 
$1,000,000?"
George Bernard Shaw, eighty-four, but still ex­
hibiting a sense of humor, commented in London;
"It would take one mi ¡on dollars to get me to 
comment on such a fool story."
The British Broadcasting System casually an­
nounced, "Here is today's business offer. A 
250,000 sterling reward has been placed on the 
head of Herr Hitler by an American."
But whether it was just a business offer, or a 
"bold and humane act" as one of the hundreds of 
positive telegrams to Dr. Church suggested, there 
were people who seriously hoped to collect Hitler 
and the million dollars. These were the days 
before State Lotteries, and $1,000,000 went a lot 
further than it would today. Dozens of instant- 
millionaire hopefuls announced their kidnapping 
intentions to the public, which were usually qual­
ified by a request for a downpayment.
Joe Dunkel, a parachute jumper from Cleve­
land known as "The Flying Dutchman," wired 
Dr. Church for $25,000 for expenses. The tele­
gram said, "Right now on Long Island a plane is 
waiting. I have a pilot and a radio man. For a mil­
lion bucks, we can't miss."
A Physical Culture Group from Houston told 
Church they would go after Hitler, but first need­
ed a "SI00,000 drawing account." A professional 
strongman asked for transportation to Germany. 
Scores of other telegrams to Church announced 
that the race was on, and Hitler was the target.
Or perhaps Church was the target. Most of the 
major newspapers around the country round 
Church guilty of stirring up trouble with an im­
possible scheme. Carl W. Ackerman, Dean of Co­
lumbia's School of Journalism wrote an open let­
ter to Church labeling him "War Maker Number I." 
But most journalists and newspapers took the of­
fer as a joke.
On May 3, The Philadelphia Record concluded 
an editorial on the matter by taking a poke at the 
ineffective League of Nations.
"As for Mr. Church's condition that Hitler be 
delivered to the League of Nations, we would al­
most be willing to offer 1,000,000 to anyone who 
can find and produce the League of Nations."
US General Jonnson, in Washington, called it a 
ridiculous stunt and said, "Mr. Church's absurdity 
is trivial, but any sucker American approval of it 
is dangerous."
Larry MacPhail, Brooklyn Dodgers President, 
put his appraisal bluntly by saying, "Only the Al­
lied Generals can figure out a way to get Hitler— 
and that's what they're trying to do right now."
Mr. MacPhail was a member of an American 
Army kidnapping attempt of the German Kaiser 
in 1919. That expedition ended in failure. Another 
member of that kidnapping party was Egbert 
O'Haul, who commented on the Church offer 
from his home, in Houston, Texas by saying, "I 
guess I was born 2u years too soon."
Other reward offers began amusing the world 
within a few days of the Church offer. On May 
4th, seven Bluffton College students offered a 
$3.23 reward for the capture of Dr. Church. The 
students said they placed the reward because 
Church was a war monqer.
$10,000 was placed on the heads of Prime 
Minister Neville Chamberlin of Great Britain and 
Premier Paul Reynaud of France. The rewards 
could be collected regardless of whether the lead­
ers were captured dead or alive.
A Los Angeles laywer said that he would pro­
vide an additional $l,000,00U to the reward if Hit­
ler would be tried on an indictment which he had 
prepared. Other people, all over the country, also 
wished to add money to the reward. Dr. Church's 
office was overwhelmed with contributions, all of 
which were returned.
The eighty-two year old Church returned from 
Ligonier on May 3rd to find his home guarded by 
police. His son had requested the protection. 
Church went into his house declining to comment 
on anything, but the Pittsburghers around him 
were full of comments.
The Editorial pages of the Post Gazette, Press, 
and Sun Telegraph became open forums for dis­
cussion of the offer. Reporters took to the streets 
to interview workers, housewives, and business­
men. The Pittsburgh Bulletin Index said, 
"Church has given the country its most titillating 
story since Radio actor Orson Welles staged his in­
vasion from Mars." Pittsburgh was suddenly a 
world-wide newsmaker, and its people wanted to 
voice their opinions.
A letter in the Press proclaimed,
"A million dollars for Hitler? Let's raise the 
ante. How about collecting all the gold, ship it
©lOlc cv
The New Year is upon us, and so is a new 
semester of FOLIO. To those who praised it in 
the TARTAN survey, thanks and we'll try to 
keep up the good work. But to those of you 
who complained, we extend the offer to submit 
your writing and artwork in order to help us 
improve. Here's a list of themes for the first half 
of the semester, as well as the deadlines for 
leaving your typed copy or artwork at the 
TARTAN office.
January 30: Free for all (deadline: January 23) 
February 13: Valentine's Day
(deadline. February 6) 
February 27: The Complete Starving Room ­
mate Cheap Living Dorm Hoorn Cookbook 
(deadline. February 20) 
March 13: Sci Fi Ish (deadline: March 6)
March 27: Parodies of Great Literature
(sonnets, limericks, and other masterpieces)
(deadline: March 20)

---------------------------------------------------

January 16, 1979 - TARTAN - page 13
out on an island, together with Kings, Queens, 
Lords, Barons and all other gold diggers and tell 
them they're welcome to all of it. Then I would 
suggest distributing the 10 commandments among 
all nations of the world and when Christians come 
around, we can without being hypocrites, shout 
these noble words, 'Peace on Earth.' "Good will 
to men."
The letter was signed, "A. Nut."
Arnold Battaglini of Brownsville Pa. wrote to 
the editor; "I offer one billion dollars reward in 
cash to anyone or any group who captures Mars, 
the god of war, and delivers him to the Supreme 
court alive, unwounded and unhurt. I don't have 
a billion, but my Uncle Sam would surely pay a 
billion for uninterruped worldwide peace."
The humor didn't stop at irony, however. 
Sometimes it really was comical. Wilmarth I. Ja­
cobs, Assistant Headmaster at the Mercersburgh 
Academy Press Club said he wondered if Goering 
had walked into Der Fuehrer's private office the 
day after the offer and greeted him with, "Heil, 
Boss. You look like a million dollars this mor­
ning."
Sports writer Arthur (Bugs) Bauer looked at 
the reward in terms of athletics. He wrote, "The 
Pittsburgh offer of $l,00U,000 for the Fuehrer is 
sure putting the emphasis on sports. Commission­
er Landis will probably declare Adolf a free agent 
entitled to half the purchase money."
Former Mayor William McNair took things 
much more seriously, and became quite upset with 
Dr. Church. He declared Dr. Church "the stuff 
and nonsense champion of the world" and said, 
"I said a lot of stuff when I was Mayor, but I nev­
er said anything as dangerous or silly as that."
After the New Years Dtpiorratic Recept'on 1936
Other Pittsburghers were just pla*n b^ter. One 
letter to the editor read, "Billions of dollars are 
spent annually to bring lesser crimals to justice all 
over the world. One million dollars would be 
cheap to fetch this arch lunatic murderer alive."
One letter writer, who signed himself "A veter­
an" wrote, "What could we do with Hitler if we 
did have him? We could display him as a freak 
and charge people fifteen cents to see the only liv­
ing demon."
Some Pittsburgh citizens felt that Dr. Church 
was playing the goat while his 49 associates re­
mained unidentified. Others felt that it didn't
matter who was identified and who wasn't, be­
cause all fifty contributors were wasting their mo­
ney.
George H. Hull Jr., in a letter to the Post Gaz­
ette Editor, said, "Mr. Midas" need not go far 
from Pittsburgh to spend his dollars in a way that 
would be a blessing to his soul." Other letters also 
suggested that Dr. Church should "donate the 
money to charity." Father Forney, head of the 
Pittsburgh Holy Name Society asked that the mil­
lion dollars go to aid refugees, and in return, Am­
ericans would offer one million prayers.
But Willy Knopfel, German consul in Pitts­
burgh, had other, more chilling ideas for the mo­
ney. He said, 'They ought to present the $1,000,
000 to Hitler to help the wounded. Hitler is going 
to win. He is stronger than ever before."
Dr. Church, in the meantime, was writing an­
other letter. While still refusing to comment any 
further on the Hitler offer, he sent a message to 
the Duquesne Club apologizing for the "unwar­
ranted publicity" stemming from his proposal. 
The letter was addressed to Gordon F. Flagg, Sec­
retary of the Club, and was also published in the 
newspapers. It read:
"Dear Mr. Flagg,
In a telephone interview between a reporter 
for the New York Times and myself at Pittsburgh, 
the conversation was as follows—
Reporter—Are your friends in this move­
ment members of the Duquesne Club?
My reply—No, not at all—some of them are 
women.
This was the only reference made."
The newspapers said that the letter was posted 
on the bulletin board at the club, but Mr. Flagg, 
still Secretary-treasurer of the Club today, re­
members otherwise.
Mr. Flagg, who has'served the Duquesne Club 
for 47 years, was still a young executive during 
Church's era. He recalls:
"It wasn't posted on the bulletin board. That 
wouldn't be done. He wrote the letter to me as 
Secretary of the Board of Directors, and I read 
the letter to the board. Dr. Church apologized 
and they accepted his apology. That's all there 
was to it."
Mr. Flagg remembers that there was "a lot of 
talk about the offer but nobody took it serious­
ly." When asked the 38 year old question about 
whom the other contributors might have been, 
Mr. Flagg's response was extremely surprising.
"I don't think there were any contributors. I 
don't think anyone would have contributed. I 
think they they thought it was a foolish idea. He 
just made the offer himself. He might have discus­
sed it with some of his close friends, but he never 
discussed it openly."
Mr. Flagg's recollections about Mr. Church are 
not limited to the details of the Hitler reward.
"Colonel Church was a gentlemanly, elderly 
man. A very brilliant man. He came for lunch here 
at the club every day unless he was sick or out of 
town. He ate with the same group all the time. He 
was a very nice fellow, and I spoke with him of­
ten. But we never discussed the reward. I don't 
think anyone knew about it until we read it in the 
newspapers."
Mr. Flagg is Vice President of Heinz Hall and 
President of the Pittsburgh Opera in addition to 
his duties with the Duquesne Club. He isn't the 
only person alive today to remember Dr. Church 
and the reward offer.
Mr. Louis Susany, who recently retired as 
Manager of Physical Plant at Carnegie Institute, 
remembers Church as an able and capable man
who drew mixed reactions concerninn the reward 
from the employees of the Institute.
"At that time, some people thought he was a 
bit out of line to make the offer and some doubt­
ed that he could ever raise the money. But the 
employees never thought that Hitler could be cap­
tured anyway."
Mrs. Florence Kemler, also retired, was an As­
sistant Secretary to Dr. Church at the time of the 
offer.
A day off — the Fuehrer and little Helga Goebbels.
"All of us in the office thought he was a very 
wonderful man. He was interested in theater, 
news, religion. He brought some well-known speak­
ers here for Founders Day. Madame Curie, Lili 
Ponds, and President Coolidge."
Mrs. Kemler remembers the Founders Day in 
1940 when the subject of Dr. Church's speech was 
Adolf Hitler.
"He was talking about the evils of Hitler. But 
he wasn't just talking. He was shouting. He was so 
loud. Mini Rankin, his secretary, and I were 
standing at the back of the auditorium. Mini smil­
ed, turned to me and said, 'He's talking so loud, I 
bet they can hear him in Germany.'"
Mrs. Kemler was the only person in the o.> ce 
the day Dr. Church died.
"He rang his buzzer, and I went in. He was in 
great pain. I got a towel, put it on his forehead 
and I called his doctor and his chauffeur. The 
Chauffeur came, wrapped Dr. Church's coat 
around him and helped him walk out. That was 
the last I saw of him. He died later that day.”
Most people who knew Dr. Church have only 
praise for him, and view the reward offer as just a 
small fragment of an illustrious career. Mr. Harold 
Obernauer, now 91, was President of the Alleghe­
ny County Bar Association in 1940, and knew Dr. 
Church through the Pittsburgh Athletic Associa* 
tion. He remembers Dr. Church as an easy person 
with whom to converse, who was well liked and 
friendly. Walter Blenko, a laywer and former In­
stitute trustee recalls Church as "one of that gen­
eration of people who were captains of industry 
with a strong desire to see what Carnegie invis­
ioned."
Some other associates at the Institute found 
Church to be a great person with a lot of ambh

---------------------------------------------------

Laughing in the Pa*+ — even the Fuehrer ran be me> ry
uon. A tew iom.c. ¿iatr members even found that 
his ambition made him pretentious. One Institute 
employee says, “He was short of stature and like 
so many short men, he found the need to be pom­
pous." For the most part, however, Dr. Church's 
coworkers remember him with respect and adora­
tion.
Dr. Church's daughter-in-law and son, Regin­
ald, moved from Pittsburgh in 1966 and now live 
on Hilton Head Island, South Carolina. Mrs. 
Church remembers her father-in-law as a warm, 
appealing, witty man who wasn't eccentric at all. 
Dr. Church's two daughters and other son, Har­
den Church, live in Washington D.C.. Harden had 
just one remark about his father's reward for Hit­
ler.
"My father made that offer in his old age. He 
was an old man then."* * * * *
Of course, the reward for Hitler's capture was 
never paid. The month of May 1940 expired, and 
the Fuehrer remained in Berlin. Hitler's promise 
of 500,000 dead Germans surpassed 1,000,000 by 
the end of the month. And Dr. Church's offer of 
$1,000,000 was withdrawn. Whether or not any-
1 he mo •• ng o* J*i>u > 1 lf>, 1 J&. d"t 'Ik • ,•<) » ’h-
one actually came close to collecting the money 
remained Dr. Church's secret. On June 1st, Dr. 
Church broke his silence about the offer, and is­
sued a statement.
He said that he had offered the reward because 
of a letter he received from a high authority in 
Europe quoting Hitler as predicting that before 
the end of the year, the enemies of Germany 
would be annihilated. Mr. Church said he received 
a swelling stream of letters, 99% of which were in 
favor ot the proposal. He went on to say that the 
million dollars could have been collected from 
these letter writers alone in a fortnight, but all 
contributions were returned.
"There were, as a matter of course, a few dis­
cordant communications," Church revealed,
"some of which were expressed in sarcastic dis­
sent, some in bitter rage, but enough of them to 
indicate that if Adolf Hitler should ever come to 
the United States in the captured protection of 
the British and French Fleets he would be met at 
the shore by a fifth column of so-called American 
citizens who would give him the vociferous and 
glorifying adoration of the raised hand.
"The proposal was limited to the month of 
May, and as, unfortunately, the reward has not 
been claimed it has now expired. Meanwhile, Hit­
ler has opened his assault on the Western Front.
"The world stands appalled over his consuming 
appetite for murder, day by day, that would sick­
en the heart of a wolf. In a world tragedy that is 
unexampled in history for blood and tears and 
horror and destruction, Adolf Hitler is the chief 
delinquent."
Samuel Harden Church was more than just an 
old man when he made headlines across the world 
with his million dollar offer. He was a man with 
tremendous insight. He was a man whose yearning 
for peace grew into a passion that had to be dealt 
with. His offer grew from an understanding of 
Adolf Hitler, and a fear of the man's evil capabili­
ties.
Samuel Harden Church shocked, entertained, 
and excited the world. His offer might have been 
a million dollars for a "one in a million chance," 
but it was worth taking. If Hitler could have been 
captured in May 1940, his trial would have been 
well worth the investment.
Samuel Harden Church died in 1943 at the age 
of 85. A self made man, his life was filled with 
achievement, honor, and controversy. He began 
work in a Pittsburgh department store at Sl.bO a 
week, became a Pennsylvania Railroad Messen­
ger in 1875, and retired fifty-two years later as 
Vice President.
He was commissioned as a colonel on the staff 
of Ohio Governor Hoadly for his conduct in 
handling troops during the Cincinnati riots ot 
1884. In 1895 Andrew Carnegie chose him as a 
trustee from his philanthropic funds,and in 1914, he 
became President of Carnegie Institute.
Sixteen days after World War I began in 1914, 
Church was called the first violator of Woodrow 
Wilson's neutrality proclamation for denouncing 
"Germany's murder of civilization." Church was 
also the author of the first propoganda leaflets 
ever dropped behind enemy lines during World 
War I. He was later awarded citations of honor 
from four European countries for his support of 
the Allied cause.
Church was characterized in a biography writ­
ten in 1931, as a "prolific and able writer." He 
wrote seven novels and five books of history, not 
including his fifteen volume Corporate History of 
the Pennsylvania Hailroad. He also wrote two 
plays. His many articles and poems appeared in 
major American newspapers and magazines, in-, 
eluding the New York Times and the Atlantic 
Monthly.
Church was a man who liked to be in the cen­
ter of things, including politics. He spoke at five 
different Republican National Conventions. He 
was also considered for nomination to the Presi 
dency of the United States in 1920.
He was an outspoken fighter, who always let 
the world know where he stood and what he was 
fighting for or against. He supported President 
Roosevelt in 1932, while organizing and campaign­
ing for the antiprohibition plank. Four years lat 
er, he turned against Roosevelt and supported Re 
)ublican Alt Landon.
3 1933 Church chaired a protest meeting in
Carnegie Music Hall where he condemned German 
oppression of the Jews. A great orator, his 
speeches often turned into bitter denunciations.
He spoke out against Radio Priest Father 
Charles E. Coughlin, Pennsylvania's Blue Laws, 
the Anti-Saloon League, capital punishment, Am­
erica's participation in the 193b Olympics in Ber­
lin, and communism. He selected the word 
"sweat" as one of the world's ten most beautiful 
words.
He proposed a constitutional amendment pro­
hibiting bonuses and pensions for uninjured sol­
diers, upsetting the American Legion. He created 
a heated controversy by denying artist Rockwell 
Kant permission to speak in Carnegie Music Hall 
because he suspected Kant to be a communist. 
Church called Charles Lindbergh's views on war 
"sophomoric, pro-German, and monstrously at 
variance with the truth." He wrote a book review 
of Hitler s Mem Kampf in 1939 that called Hitler 
"the world's most dangerous citzen. He is a mas­
ter madman, vulture and raging tiger." Later that 
year he called for the banishment of Hitler. In 
April 1940, one month before his reward offer, 
Church said that any peace treaty would probably 
call for the public execution of the Fuehrer.
An authority on art and culture. Church was a 
distinguished, well liked(respected leader in Pitts­
burgh Society. He held six honorary degrees and 
was a member of author s clubs and social clubs 
in Pittsburgh, New York, London and Paris.
After his reward offer in 1940, Church made 
news a tew more times. In June of 1940.he called 
for the execution of Hitler and Mussolini and the 
isolation of their peoples for ten years. When the 
French were taken over by Germany, Church sent 
back the French Legion of Honor decoration pre­
sented to him after World War I because he felt 
the French "sold their birthright and yielded their 
allegience to Hitler by attacking Syria."
He died on October 12, 1943, following an op 
eration in Shadyside Hospital. He was preparinq 
for Carnegie Institute's Founder's Day ceremo’ v| 
on the day ot his death.__________________ I

---------------------------------------------------

by David Sheward
Oscar Wilde’s The Importance of Being 
Earnest is not only Wilde’s best play, 
but one of the best comedies of any kind 
ever written. The devastating eptgrams 
follow one another like bolts of lightning. 
Their twists of logic and blatant 
dishonesty perfectly characterize the 
artificial English high society of Wilde’s 
time. The Pittsburgh Public Theatre has 
given us a serviceable, but not dazzling 
production of this classic comedy of 
manners. The Public’s huge playing area, 
which can be likened most to a miniature 
football field, works against the play’s 
theme of a closed, artificial society whose 
members run around in ridiculous and 
amusing circles. The players and direct­
or do their best to surmount the inhos­
pitable theatre space.
The totally improbable plot concerns 
Jack Worthing (Douglas Stender) and 
his efforts to wed the beautiful 
Gwendolen Fairfax (Caroline Lagerfelt). 
Obstacles in Jack’s path include the fact 
that he has told Gwendolen that his name 
is Earnest when it’s really Jack, 
Gwendolen’s formidable mother, the 
imposing, . commanding and dangerous 
Lady Bracknell (Carol Teitel), and Jack’s 
place of birth or as Lady B. would have 
it “breeding”. To complicate matters 
Lady Bracknell’s nephew Algernon Mon- 
creif (Samuel Maupin) has fallen in love 
with Jack’s ward, Cecily Cardew (Michele 
Seyler), and told her that his name is 
Earnest. Everything eventually falls into 
place and all ends happily.
Of the players Samuel Maupin comes
Consulting her personal directory of eligible bachelors. Lady Bracknell, portrayed by Carol Teitel, typifies the domineering mother of the idle rich of 
British society presented in PPT's production of Oscar Wilde's The Importance of Being Earnest running through January 21.
off the best. His Algernon is a wonderful 
combination of sophisticated young rake 
and mischievously wicked little boy. 
Douglas Stender, Caroline Lagerfelt and 
Michele Seyler are all expert at deliver­
ing the sharp pointed dialogue. Carol 
Teitel however is miscast as Lady 
Bracknell. She is described by Jack 
as imposing, old and “a gorgon”. Miss
Teitel is anything but. She is young, 
rather fetching, petite and definitely 
not a gorgon. She almost makes up 
for all the physical disparaties between 
herself and the characters with the 
excellent use of her voice. It is 
domineering and caresses the ends of 
sentences beautifully. But the difference 
is still apparent.
Beth Dixon, Hugh Rose, Russell 
Gold and John Scanlan lend excellent 
support as Cecily’s extremely Scottish 
governess, the local clergyman and 
two butlers.
The Public’s production has all the 
laughs in the right places, but lacks 
that certain degree of imaginative sparkle 
that makes a production memorable.
by Mikki Shuil
Last semester some pertinent issues were 
raised concerning the manner in which our 
student activities fee was used. Questions 
such as how funds are allocated, to whom 
and by whom and which student activities 
qualify for funding, why or why not,were 
justifiably raised. However, most impor­
tantly, the basic issue is whether activities 
funded by all of us are directed in some 
way toward the benefit and enjoyment of 
all.
I doubt if anyone wishes to feel they are 
throwing away money. A thirty dollar 
mandatory investment, above and beyond
TGIF makes an appeal to get you involved
ferent music preferences, as well as peoplewhat is paid out for courses, books, hou­
sing and food should yield for every stu­
dent some return above and beyond a 
strictly academic experience. In this vein it 
is the responsibility of such organizations 
as SARC, SDC, and AB to plan events 
during the course of the school year that 
provide for all segments of the campus 
community.
Placing both the responsibilty and pos­
sible blame on these organizations, if you 
as an individual feel as though your needs 
are not being met is not totally realistic. 
One must keep in mind that all of these 
organizations are run by students and get­
ting involved and having your views heard 
is your only insurance that you wiii be 
counted.
This semester TGIF is making a strong 
appeal for your involvement. If you are not 
familiar with this committee, briefly sta­
ted, TGIF is an integral part of Activities 
Board that concerns itself with providing 
dances and live entertainment on week­
ends throughout the semester for the stu­
dent body. Successful programming is our 
objective and lor any master plan there 
must exist an underlying strategy. For 
TGIF this means we are looking for mem­
bers who have diverse backgrounds, dif-
who can generate innovative ideas and con­
tribute to a collective effort. With this type 
of personnel the basis exists for program­
ming that exhibits talent and not merely 
tries to satisfy the needs of the community 
by having a rock group one week, country 
western the following week and rhythm 
and blues the week after.
As a first event for the semester TGIF 
will be sponsoring a DISCO on Friday, 
January 19th. All are invited to attend.
Keep an eye open for posted TGIF 
meetings in the Tartan and the Activities 
Board Bulletin.
_______________________UN I LIVLTVII Ml VILJ N I
'Earnest' depicts British high society
Crafts shown aestheticallyCavett hustles Pittsburgh
by Audrey Bethel
Setting the aesthetic momentum this 
New Year (January 6 - January 23) the 
entire Arts and Crafts Center is filled with 
fine art constructed of materials tradition­
ally associated with crafts. Eight artists 
who have stretched their former crafts 
orientation to new dimensions of personal 
expression, and thus into realm of high 
art. are featured in the three concurrent 
exhibitions.
The 1979 Artist of the Year is. Louise 
Pierucci. Through her own experimental 
approach to weaving, teaching and leader­
ship, she has been the primary influence 
in the fiber renaissance that has made 
Pittsburgh internationally known as a 
weaving Center. Surprisingly, however, she 
is not showing weaving. In her one-person 
Artist of the Year Exhibition are small 
pristine sculptural grids made of fine string 
and hand-made paper, large scuptures of 
lashed dowels and hanks of knotted yarn; 
the raw materials of weaving and small 
black and white drawings, all based on the 
weaving process on an intellectual level.
but high fashion body sculpture is featured 
by the six major artists ot Artwear, 410 W. 
Broadway §t., Soho, New York. Marisol, 
Robert Moirib, Cara Croninger, Dennis 
Higgins, Ted Muehling and Patricia Von 
Musulin have made glamorous avant-garde 
art objects to wear of gold, silver, bronze, 
steel, ribbon, leather, and polyester resin. 
They are the most spirited and expressive 
contemporary jewelry objects to be recent- 
ly seen in Pittsburgh. Artwear Gallery is 
headquarters for new ideas and features 
and unacademic conceptual approach. Gal­
lery owner, Robert Morris, inspired by ar­
tists who made jewelry like Picasso, 
Braque, Calder and deChirico selects 
artists of high originality.
Porcelain platters, bottles and bowls, 
grace the Associated Artists Upstairs 
Gallery.
The Arts anti Crafts Center i\ located at 
Fifth and Shady Avenues and is jree and 
open to the public daily 10-5, Sundays,
2 5. There is ample parking. Art.and crafts 
objects are for sale not only in the 3 exhi­
bits, but in the year-round, on-going Mart 
which features the work of local artists.
by Joan Livitski
Last Saturday night the fever hit 
Pittsburgh, but it wasn’t John Travolta 
who ruled the dance floor. The aloof and 
debonair talk show host, Dick Cavett, was 
the real king of swing at WQED’s recent 
disco special.
Dick Cavett, along with Roy Fox who 
hosts his own talk show on radio, talked 
with disco owners, disc jockeys, technical 
and special effects people, dance instruc­
tors and other disco enthusiasts. Myron 
Cope of WTAE-TV and Dave Kelly of 
WIIC-TV gave their views on disco with 
which the audience differed greatly. 
Professional models and Pittsburgh cele­
brities, clad by Saks Fifth Avenue, dis­
played the latest in disco fashions. There 
was even a demonstration of the recent 
dance craze, the freak, and a discussion of 
the group, Chic, that made it famous.
The special was part of WQED’s pledge 
drive to raise money for its programming, 
but it also showed that disco is alive, well 
and really hustling in Pittsburgh. Judging 
by the number of people who turned out 
to dance and watch, Pittsburgh was shown
to be a lively night-spot especially where 
dance is concerned.
The real show in my eyes wasn’t the 
dancing though, it was watching Dick 
Cavett’s facial expressions and gestures, all 
of comical intent, while Roy Fox inter­
viewed other people. Cavett and Fox’s 
bantering immediately set the mood for an 
easy going, fun-filled evening. Managing to 
demolish Pittsburgh through comments 
on potholes, its mayor and the Steelers, 
Cavett adequately displayed the biting wit 
that he is so known for. But with that 
impish face and dimpled smile, who could 
be angry with him whatever he said?
The specifics of the night aren’t nece­
ssary to reiterate, since my experience
with people and disco is that they either 
have the fever or they don’t. If your temp­
erature is normal you probably don t care, 
and if you’re one of those who can’t but 
keep your feet from moving then you 
most likely saw the show or were out 
“cutting the tapestry”*as Cavett would say.
Besides, once the heat wave came, this 
reporter just “freak”-ed out in the “Chic”- 
est style.

---------------------------------------------------

page 16 - TARTAN - January 16, iy/y
'Money Talks' copies
by Cheryl Goodman
Although Money Talks, the newest re­
lease by the Bar-Kays, is nice listening and 
pretty good dance music, the underlying 
trend of the album is the same as always 
whenever the Bar-Kays are concerned. 
Since their first attempt as a solo group in 
the sixties with Son of Shaft, they’ve en­
countered massdifficulties when it comes to 
creating new sounds of their own. They 
frequently rely on the talent and inven­
tiveness of other artists to see them 
through. Unfortunately, Money Talks, 
probably their best album to date, suffers 
the same fate.
There are a few good pieces here. Holy 
Ghost, the single release, is very bold and 
simply defies you not to dance. A heavy 
bass and an excellent featured consa do 
their driving “to the hilt” which makes
the cut a dynamic lead in to the album. At 
only 3:56 it is unfortunately the shortest 
cut on the album. Another nice selection is 
the Dave Mason “old faithful” Feelin ’A/- 
right. There must be a written rule some­
where in the music business that you can’t 
go wrong with this one. Everyone from the 
Jackson 5 to Joe Cocker has recorded it, 
each giving it something unique to charac­
terize it. The Bar-Kays also try but the 
song has been done so many times it really 
doesn’t stick. The same is true for the 
Grand Funk tune Mean Mistreater on side 
two.
The group’s lack of creativity, however, 
surfaces on side two. The title song is so 
much out of the Earth, Wind and Fire 
mode that one would swear they had heard 
it before. Actually, one has. The vocals, 
horn arrangement, and cowbell are straight
out of Mighty, Mighty, the awesome ele­
ments’ hit of a few years back. It’s like deja 
vu listening to it. Closing out the side is 
Holy Ghost (Reborn) and it’s funny how it 
is reborn as the Ohio Players’ Fire. The 
phrasing in places is an almost exact dupli­
cation.
The Bar-Kays have been around too 
long and have received too mucl} notoriety 
for this type of plagiarism. They have the 
potential—their musicianship is very cap­
able—but by “copying” from other artists 
so often they iost their musical appeal to 
the listening and buying publir
THERE’S SHU. TIME«.
to sign up for your 
senior ponrans
Information and signups at 
the Skibo Information Desk
CUSTOMER INFORMATION FROM GENERAL MOTORS
WHAT "STICKER PRICES" REALLY MEAN
HOW TO GET THE BEST BUY ON THE CAR THAT’S BEST FOR YOU.
Every GM dealer is an 
independent businessman. 
No one can tell him what to 
charge. Not the government, 
and not the manufacturer.
But the government can 
and does require that manu­
facturers post a suggested 
retail price, or "sticker price,” 
on every new car we build. It’s 
a gcxxl idea, because it makes 
it easier for you to compare 
one car against another.
Remember, the “sticker 
price” is only the suggested 
price. The actual selling price 
may be different. That’s be­
cause the law of supply and 
demand affects the prices of 
cars, just as it affects most 
other prices. And market con­
ditions change all the time.
For example: a very pop­
ular model may sell at the 
suggested price, but frequent­
ly cars will sell for less, be­
cause the automobile business 
is highly competitive.
The difference between 
the sticker price” and the 
wholesale price—that’s what 
the dealer pays us—is called the 
markup, or dealer’s discount. 
This changes from time to
time, but as a general rule the 
markup on small cars is lower 
than on full-size cars.
The dealers markup helps 
to pay his rent, taxes, salaries, 
utility bills—all that it costs to 
run a business. And he also 
has to make a profit, or he 
can’t stay in business. Last 
year, GM dealers reported 
about two cents profit on each 
dollar of sales. As you can see, 
competition doesn’t leave the 
average dealer a very big 
margin of profit.
You can affect the price 
you pay. It depends on the mar­
ketplace, for one thing. You 
may get a bigger break if you 
choose a slower-selling model 
or a car the dealer already has 
in stock. The latest sales fig­
ures published in many news­
papers will give you some idea 
of how cars are selling, al­
though the demand for a par­
ticular model may be greater 
or less in your area.
How much optional equip­
ment you order on your car 
also makes a big difference in 
its price. Go over the list care­
fully, and equip the car just 
the way you want it. Then it 
will have most value for you, 
and you’ll enjoy it more. You 
shouldn’t buy what you won’t 
use, although much- of the 
equipment you add -to your
new car will make it worth 
more when you decide it’s 
time to trade it in.
Most buyers trade in a 
used car* when they buy a 
new one. And the value of 
used cars varies according to 
demand as well as to their 
condition. Performance and 
appearance count, so it’s a 
good idea to maintain your 
car and keep it clean. The 
more you can get for your old 
car, the less will be your out- 
of-pocket cost to replace it 
with a new one.
But whichever car you 
choose, the price should never 
be your only consideration. 
The dealer’s reputation and 
his service capability aré also 
important.
Our interest is in helping 
both you and the dealer to 
get a fair deal. We want you 
to be satisfied with your car. 
That’s good for you, gocxl for 
the dealer, and gcxxl for us.
This advertisement is fxnl of 
our continuing effort to give 
customers useful information 
about their cars and trucks 
and the company that builds 
them.
General Motors
People building transportation 
to serve people

---------------------------------------------------

a \f/óWt,..X WÌ-5H X CÖÜLl>\. BE IN THIS COWTE-ST...
M » " • IF H 6ET A 
p/vce LI FT./. BU5T
ßUIUDETR... A LITTLE 
EXET MAKE-UP,,. A 
FARR AU WIG-//- A BIT
Ja nurnyJ16, Atmar/w'{EH...1 CAW Do rtf* TH\5
15 C.HU.II X CAM 1X3 J
¦ ANYTHIN&IL. I9997,_99V9 o
* A weaponless means of self defense that consists of dynamic offensive and defen­
sive techniques using all parts of the body to their maximum advantage. The practice 
of which tones the body, develops coordination, quickens reflexes, and builds 
stamina.
Supported by Student Senate
ABC looking 
for special 
girls at CMU
Beginners' classes start Tuesday, January 16, 1979, 6:00 p.m. in Thistle Hall, Gym. 
Practices are held Tuesdays and Thursdays 6:30 to 8:30 p.m. and Saturdays 11:30 a.m. 
to 1:30 p.m.
ABC Television is looking for...............
The All American Girl. If you are person­
able, single, between the ages of 18—22, 
and have some sort of athletic ability or 
special talent vou mav he in InrW tvwo 
could mean a trip to California, a $25,000
prize, and a contract to appear on ABC 
Television. Applications for The All Am­
erican Girl television special must be 
postmarked by January 29, 1979. Ap­
plication fee is $20.00 payable by check or 
cash. Contestants will receive an official 
badge and T-shirt for participating. Pick up 
applications at Skibo Information Desk.
WHITE".

---------------------------------------------------

come dance the light; fantastic!mm«2HININ
2001 WEST GENERAL ROBINSON STREET 322-49492001 «VEST GENERAL ROBINSON STREET 
PITTSBURGH P* lmnue eN ebC,, Cgi,C6 6-_7MMg
EVERY FRIDAY AND SUNDAYmm2002. ROUTE 48 AND LINCOLN WAY 664-0553
WHITE OAK PA
EVERY FRIDAY AND SATURDAY
THE AREA’S ONLY EXCLUSIVELYUNDER a DISCOS!*
i 1 I i I z! !
I?! ¿ S
oa
53 . 
ISS
I8r8* ífix cx* ^•“« 2 oo a>X«- 32
e?1
:r
© $
! WWW .
You pick the winners
Students comprise one of the largest 
moviegoing groups in America. It is time 
for them to express their views of current 
American Cinema.Thisyear, FOCUS, spon- 
sered by Nissan Motor Corporation, is cre­
ating “The Student’s Choice Awards”. A 
national poll is being conducted of stu­
dents’ choices in the categories of Best 
Motion Picture, Best Performance by an 
Actor and by an Actress, and Best Direc­
tor.
Please fill out and mail in the form be­
low, by February 15, 1979. Winners cho­
sen by student vote will be invited to at­
tend the FOCUS Premiere and Award 
Ceremony in Hollywood on March 22nd, 
at which time official presentation of the 
“Student’s Choice Awards” will be made. 
Ballots are returnable to FOCUS: Student’s 
Choice Awards / 1140 Avenue of the 
Americas / New York, N. Y. 10036.
Best Motion Picture of 1978
Best Performance by an Actor in 1978
yBest Performance by an Actress in 1978
Best Director of 1978
Name of College or University
Schools submitting over 100 ballots will 
be entered in a random drawing for a new 
pinball machine, to be installed in the cam­
pus students activity center.
The Mellon Banking Card
It could change the wayyou bank.
BankingCard
Now--with our Mellon Banking Card, you 
can bank 24 hours a day. You can make deposits or 
withdraw needed cash from your checking or savings accounts. 
And you can transfer money between them. Any time.
Day or night. Weekends or holidays.
You can even make installment or mortgage loan payments.
It’s banking when you need it.
You won t have to worry about getting to the bank before it closes.
And you won’t have to rush to make a transaction. Getting caught short of cash 
on a weekend or any time can be a thing of the past.
Because now your bank is open 24 hours a day. Every day.
We can do even more for you in the future.
Right now our 24'hour Banking Terminals are open and operating throughout 
th e area in twenty convenient locations. This means many banking services 
are available on a 24-hour basis with your Mellon Banking Card.
Join the people who already have one.
Stop at a Mellon Bank office near you and ask about the Mellon Banking Card.
Its free... another way Mellon Banking helps you do more with your money.
This is Mellon Banking
Member FWC

---------------------------------------------------

January 16, 1979 — TARTAN — page 19
Superman' remains true to past memories
by Dave Kirby
We can blame it on the hype, or perhaps 
the unwritten taboo against violating our 
hildhood nostalgia and its delicate de­
tails. It might be that we are so accustomed 
t0 trendy garbage that we can’t appreciate 
Good Clean Fun, or worse, can’t distin- 
ouish between the two. In any case, most 
of the misgivings I had about the success 
of Superman: The Movie were realized at 
the Fulton Theatre downtown.
The concept of bringing to the screen 
our archetypal childhood hero, in a way 
that neither compromises its naivete nor 
denies it, must have given the movie’s 
financial backers enough nightmares to 
send a shrink up the wall. It is an ambitious 
project, to say the least, and that thought 
remains throughout the movie. The pro­
ducers had to remain true to a great deal 
in bringing Superman to life. The charac­
ter’s qualities (modesty, unwavering ethi-
Pregnant? And you didn't 
mean to be? For a free 
pregnacy test and con­
fidential, understanding 
support, cali Birthright.
621-1988
cal principles, an almost cannibalistic hun­
ger for justice, good looks, etc) had to be 
preserved. Filmgoers of the late 70’s want 
something they can sink their jaws into, 
so the producers had to put to use all the 
recent innovations in special effects to 
make it look like he was really flying.
The plot has remained intact through­
out the forty-odd years since the comic 
book Superman first appeared. Superman’s 
father is a wise councilman of the planet 
Krypton who correctly predicts the plan­
et’s complete annihilation by a supernova­
like catastrophe. At this point, Superman 
(his Kryptonian name escapes me, as do 
all the others) is a baby and quite un­
aware of his fate. His father, played to the 
hilt by Marlon Brando, prepares a crystal­
line space vehicle, pops his son inside it, 
and sends it off towards earth, only mo­
ments before the final explosion scatters 
Krypton into its basic elements.
The ship ( actually, it looks more like 
a snowball with long spikes in it) crashes 
to earth in a bright fireball that nearly 
knocks over John and Martha Kent’s 
pickup truck. They find the child, wonder 
aloud about where he came from, and 
while they deliberate on what they’re 
going to do with him, Superman picks 
up their truck and holds it over his head. 
Then they begin to wonder. ..
It would be pointleSs to go through the 
whole plot, mostly because we all know it
anyway. Superman makes his first appear­
ance in Metropolis (having an uncanny 
resemblance to New York) by saving 
Lois Lane from certain death by pulling 
her and a disabled helicopter off the edge 
of a very tall building, much to the awe­
struck bewilderment of onlookers in the 
street below. But this is only the begin­
ning: he catches fleeing hoods, rescues 
an airplane, even saves a cat from the 
perils of a backyard tree. Nor is that all, 
but that’s all you’ll get out of me. Mere 
words could not do the rest of it justice. 
Pardon the pun.
But really, you ask, what’s this all 
about? It really isn’t just a special effects 
trip, because most of whatever substance 
the movie has does quite well without it 
(though the effects are spectacular). It 
really isn’t seeing our Superman either, 
because this one is young, good-looking, 
seems to look with questionable intentions 
at Lois Lane more than once, and isn’t 
disguised as a reporter who is quick, keen, 
and on the ball, but as a fumbling country 
boy dressed up in his Sunday best and 
watching out for toes he could accidental­
ly step oil And let’s not get into all that 
rhetorical fluff about our need for ex­
pressing hero-worship. .. .
Christopher Reeve plays the title role 
with confidence and a refreshing sense 
of humor. He makes no apology about his
role, and that gives his portrayal that much 
more confidence. Lois Lane, played by 
Margot Kidder, is a nice modern inter­
pretation of the role; she’s not too smart 
to take all this seriously and she’s pretty 
enough to make even Superprude look 
twice. Jackie Cooper wallows a bit with 
rubbery jowels and a lot of talk about 
his days as a reporter, but he enjoys him­
self so we don’t notice. Gene Hackman 
plays the bad guy, the conjurer of a de- 
vastatingly sinister scheme, with imagin­
ation and seasoned unpredictability. All. 
in all, the acting was good.
Unfortunately, the script wasn’t. It 
seems to drift from the cornyness of the 
original conception to innuendos of the 
most vile suggestions. Just when we’re 
about to be swallowed by the film’s de­
ceptive pretense of realism, some klunker 
in the script comes along and ruins the 
mood. It’s a major problem. Visually, 
the film has a great deal to offer, both in 
effects and acting dynamics, but the 
lines they’re all given are either very old 
cliches, very hip cliches, or just filler. 
Sometimes it’s so bad, that parts of the 
movie seem to exude a wholly uninten­
tional humor. Oh well.
But this is not trendy garbage. It’s a 
real attempt to bring back the orange cape 
and tight T-shirt with the Big S. It fails 
in places, but it’s Fun. See it.
Now is the time to make a great deal 
on a TI programmable.
Programmable ^8/50 
Specialty Pakettes 
Civil Engineering* Texas Instruments
£. 3 I B 6 3 1
eU7v6 st6-CM_,t-6
s. c3 ; a s 3 7 e - s s
Programmable Tl58/59 
Specialty Pakettes 
Electronic EngineeringMAIBU AOOITK)» AND MU-TIPLICAnON ML-91
CE 02
nei Cye y*
phovalue
2 FREE
software pakettes | 
with purchase 
ofaTI-58.
I See coupon.
mm mm mm a
it *8 OM8 ir G >*4a B Q ?
O*« A*Jv f*r* UManiaoTI Prognmmahlt SS 8o*»d State Software
TI Programmable 58
C3 INV «n* CE S3
STO fiCL SUM ' y*
'« "< r> aXm\ Nop Op Oaga a o a
HH mm mm nOat Adv PH t*atU MM E3 O
TI Programmable 59
$10REBATEwith purchase of aTl-59.
A Texas Instruments programmable calculator can 
make 3 big difference in the way you work this semester 
... and in the years to come. And if you buy a TI-58 or 59 
between January 1 and February 28, 1979, you can take 
advantage of a special money-saving offer.
Choose 2 FREE software Specialty Pakettes-a 
$20 value - when you buy a TI-58. Choose from:
• Electronic Engineering • Mathematics
• Civil Engineering • Statistical Testing
• Fluid Dynamics • Marketing/Sales
• Blackbody Radiation • Production Planning
• Oil/Gas/Energy • Astrology
• 3-0 Graphics
The economical TI-58 key-programmable provides up 
to 480 program steps or up to 60 data memories. TIs
Specialty Pakettes can help extend its usefulness with 
ready-to-use programs written by professionals in a 
wide variety of fields. Each pakette contains step-by- 
step program listings, applications notes, instructions 
and sample problems .f Just key-in the program you 
need and you can put it to work right away. TI-58. only 
$125.00*
Get a $10.00 rebate when you buy a TI-59.
Extra savings on the most advanced handheld pro­
grammable calculator ever made. Up to 960 program 
steps or up to 100 data memories. You can store the 
programs you write on handy magnetic cards. Addi­
tional ready-to-use programs are available through TI s 
Professional Program Exchange (PPX-59). TI-59, 
$300.00*. v
The TI-58 and 59 are versatile, computer-like tools 
specifically designed for solving complex problems 
They can get you into programming quickly and easily 
— allowing you to concentrate on learning while they 
find the solutions. Both feature Solid State Software™ 
libraries with plug-in modules containing up to 5000 
steps of prewritten programs. The Master Library is 
included with each calculator —an instant "tool kit” of 
25 programs m key areas Twelve optional 
libraries are available.
See the TI-58 and 59 at your dealer today 
and take advantage of one of these limited 
time offers.
"U S suggested retail price
• Specialty Pakettes Do not include plug in modules or magnetic cards
Texas Instruments technology — 
bringing affordable electronics to your fingertips.
VIEWS 8.S3FMAI.3S
45626
INCORPORATED 
© 1979 fexas Instruments Incorporated
? I ve bought my TI 5i please send me these two tree TI pakettes
1 
2
O I *e bought my TI 59 please send me my *t0 00 rebate
Texas Instruments an« tuitm the otter you have selected above when you (t) return tins c 
coupon mdudmg serial number (?) along «nth your completed customer ntormahon card 
(packed m bom and 13) a dated copy ot »root ot your purchase verifying purchase of a TI Pro grammabie 58 or 59 (whichever is applicable) between January t and February 21 1979 MH 
mutt be postmarked an or baton Merck 1,1179. It »«ality tor mu «»«cial after 
Send to TV SI/5* Special Oiler f 0 Mi S3. Lubbock Teias mu
Name
Address ...
City
Stale Zm
Calculator Serial NumberItrom back ot calculator)
Ptease aMow 30 days tor delivery Otter void where protoMed by law Otter good m U S only«TlTHTT?nTn?TTnTTflTTnTf?ffT!Trr!iTT?Trr—J

---------------------------------------------------

page 20 - TARTAN - January 16, 1979
Thur. 12:30 pm Wherret Room 
Open Forum with Dean Swank
CONCERNED ABOUT 
DISCRIMINATION 
PART II
WILLING TO HELP?
Sponsored by: Campus Program Planning
( :Nostalgia comes in groups of four by four
CALL 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE c™—E
by Ramanan
On November 20, Heinz Hall tried an 
experiment with The Faboulous Fours. 
Famous four member groups from the past 
were scheduled to perform and, to make 
sure that the theme got across, four such 
groups were on the bill of fare: The Ink 
Spots, The Four Freshmen, The Pied Pipers 
and The Four Lads, performing in that or­
der. Since two of the groups started out in 
the late ’30s and the other two in the ’50s, 
the evening was to evoke, or cater to, nos­
talgia in the audience.
The idea (gimmick?) for the show is 
unique and, as such, is to be applauded. 
However, the choice of groups is inexplic­
able. It was bad judgment to schedule The 
Ink Spots with the other groups. The 
pace in their songs is so very different from
that of the other groups. Further, the other 
groups, through a good amount of TV ex­
posure and innumerable bookings at night 
clubs, were smooth, polished and comfort­
able on stage. Compared to them, The Ink 
Spots were just four people who came out, 
sang a few songs and left. They would 
have made a better impression if only they 
had been placed second or third on the 
bill — it would have been “cooling off’ 
time for the audience.
Anyway, the current edition of The Ink 
Spots features four very good voices led 
by the tenor, Gene Miller. They have pre­
served the “velvety” sounds the original 
Ink Spots were so famous for - especially
in their rendition of If I Didn’t Care. While 
they left out some of the classics like To 
Each His Own, they presented a few others 
such as Into Each Life Some Rain Must 
Fall and I Love You for Sentimental Rea­
sons.
The Four Freshmen and The Four Lads 
brought their night club acts straight to 
the Heinz Hall stage. They would fling one- 
liners, all of them very much up-to-date, in 
their back chat routines weaved in among 
their musical numbers. In the case of The 
Four Freshmen there was perhaps too 
much “comedy” and not enough music.
Considering how versatile they are as 
musicians, this was sad. The Four Lads 
took their night club act a little too far, 
at least once. They kidded each other 
about their tuxedos, made a ceremony of 
taking their ties off, unbuttoned their 
shirts, (“Be Disco, man”), and one of
them came off the stage to a woman in 
the front row and sang My Funny Valen­
tine! (Take heart Messrs. Rodgers and 
Hart, it worked very well). Anyone sit­
ting anywhere but the main floor should 
have been very upset; one could not have 
seen the singer. And that is a “no no”.
By far the most satisfying group was 
The Pied Pipers. The original group was 
formed in 1939 by Tommy Dorsey, and 
had Frank Sinatra and Jo Stafford. The 
performance by this edition of the group 
did well to evoke fond memories of that 
fabulous original group. In a medley, they
The Four Lads of 1978. They, along with The Ink Spots, The Four Freshmen and The Pied Pipers, 
performed at Heinz Hall in the show The Fabulous Fours.
sang almost all the classic Tommy Dorsey- 
Pied Pipers tunes, including Marie and 
I11 Never Smile Again. One was reminded 
of the great singer Sinatra was, even in 
the strict confines of the role of a big band 
singer.
Arlene Demarco is the female singer 
with the current group. Another Jo Staf­
ford she is not — her voice is robust; she
just plants her feet apart and lets those 
high notes fly. But. she is a darn good sing­
er. In the group’s Jimmy Dorsey medley, 
she was great singing Amapola, Tangerine 
and Green Eyes (all of them made famous 
by Helen O’Connell).
Allen Steinberger led a very good back­
up band for all the four groups. The band’s 
trombonist deserves special mention. His 
repeats of those Tommy Dorsey solos, es­
pecially on Marie, were superb.
To sum up, though it was an evening of 
delightful music, one wishes that it had of­
fered a delightful show too.

---------------------------------------------------

Belechak leaves two John Carroll defenders behindphotos by Skip Brazelton
Larry Hufnagel goes up strong as Joe Belechak, No. 14, looks on
Women edge Point Park
by Stell
The CMU Women’s Basketball team 
tpulled off another thriller on Saturday by 
defeating Point Park by the score of 56-55 
Leading the way for Techs thrilling victory 
was sensational freshman Kassie Segmiller. 
She poured in 32 points, leading all 
scorers. Terry Preskars excellent ball 
handling and timely rebounds from 
Brandi Jackson, Davina Davies, Dawn 
Drake and Alex Allen kept CMU alive 
despite the tremendous height of the
Point Park team. This brings the women's 
record to two wins and one defeat.
On December 9, they beat the College 
of Steubenville, 54-58, and the following 
week they lost their momentum midway 
through the fourth period and were 
defeated by Robert Morris 71-61. This 
Wednesday night the Tartans travel to 
Thiel to face an always tough team. They 
are back home on Saturday when they tip 
off agaisnt conference powerhouse, Seton 
Hill. Game time is at 12 noon.
Out there in the Atlantic Ocean on a sunshine beach there’s going to be an outbreak of revelry this vacation break. And after the sun goes down... well, you know the effect that moonlight has on a celebration. We can only hope it won’t be a full moon.
Because from Jan. 13 through April 21 we’re opening Nassau and Paradise Island to a wave of American col­lege students. We have reason to believe that wave may reach tidal proportions. Probably because of the price: $269 including air fare and 7 nights hotel.
So there it is, young America. We guarantee you the best of dancing on the beach, water sports and a roaring party.
Beyond that, you’re invited to improvise. And since your talent for good timing is legendary, we’ve made prepara­tions for you. We’re going to be ready.
With open arms.
1028 Connecticut Avenue 
Washington D C. 20036 
(202) 265-9890
toll free (800) 225 0694
"COLLEGIATE HOLIDAYS INC.FILINGINfER'COLLEGIATE
$269
? Jan. 13-Jan. 20
? Jan. 20-Jan. 27
? Jan. 27-Feb. 3
? Mar. 3-Mar. 10
? Mar. 10-Mar. 17
$319
? Mar. 17-Mar. 24
? Mar. 24-Mar. 31
? Mar. 31-Apr. 7
? Apr. 7-Apr. 14
? Apr. 14-Apr. 21
? Alright! Sounds good! I’ve checked the week I 
want to party and enclosed my $50 deposit.
? Sounds good but I’d like to hear more. Send me 
your brochure.
Name______________________________________
Address_______I____________________________
City _____________________State__
Telephone
NASSAU & PARADISE ISLAND. BAHAMAS COLLEGE WEEK.
oopsters win opener
by David Brandwene 
¡Dave Hoffmeister’s 3-point play with 
seconds left on the clock broke a 61-16 
dlock and enabled CMU to defeat John 
Cafroll at home on opening night in the 
Presidential Athletic Conference, 
rrhe Tartan’s exploded for a 30-18 lead 
h 7 minutes to play in the first half and 
eatened to make the game a runaway, 
wever, John Carroll’s defense stiffened 
held the home team to just 6 points 
— the last 7 minutes of the half while John 
Carroll rallied for 17 points which staked 
CMU to a 1 point halftime lead, 36-35. 
I The second-half was a see-saw battle for 
¦e first 16 minutes as each team denied 
tie other a chance to break open the game, 
ftrry Hufnagel hit for two of his game 
Mgh 17 points with four minutes to play
and then the CMU defense took over. John 
Carroll controlled the ball under their own 
basket for the next two minutes but 
couldn’t score as the Tartan’s forced them 
to shoot and execute poorly. CMU played 
for 1 shot with 50 seconds left which 
eventually resulted in the game winning 
bucket byHoffmeister. Joe Belechak iced 
the game for CMU as he sunk the first shot 
of a one-and-one situation giving him a 
total of 13 points and making the final 
score 65-61.
Belechak, Hoffmeister, and Hufnagel, 
combined for 45 points and 29 of the 
team’s 40 rebounds. Buddy Hobart scored 
6 points, Mariano DeFilippo had 4 field 
goals and served out 6 assists while Dan 
Donahue came off the bench to tally 6 
points.

---------------------------------------------------

RIP THEM OFF!
with
THE RIPOFF BOOK
ii 1It’s bankgIwh egItgwn
MCDONALD'S BURGER KING
GEORGE AIKEN'S SUBWAY
UNCLE CHARLIE'S WOODEN KEG
WENDY'S SWEET WILLIAM'S
HEADS TOGETHER FLO'S
PLUS MANY. MANY MORE PLACES1yo’ It hg ud..WW .wcv mrmf
Get yours now at the Bookstore and Entropy 
Sponsored by Lambda Sigma
AIRLINES 
HOTELS 
CAR RENTALS
ARRANGEMENTS
ice Charge"
U. S. NAVY
COLLEGE JUNIORS 
AND GRADUATING SENIORS
Expand Your Job Horizons
Positions in Engineering and Nuclear Engineering 
Business Management Intelligence and Aviation 
(20/20 vision not required for Flight Officer) 
Initial salaries ranging from $12,000 to $16,000 
$20,000 to 26,000 after 4 years 
Full medical and dental coverage 
30 days paid vacation each year 
and more
Interested individuals should sign up for interviews 
in the Placement Office now. Transcripts are requested, 
or call 644-5880 January 22nd and 23rd.
Interviews January 22nd and 23rd
“ You're probably wondering how I got where I am today.
paqe 22 - TARTAN - January 16, 1979
FORBES TRAVEL
an officiaLCMU Travel Agency
COMPLETE TRAVEL
"Never a Service
— COMPUTERIZED RESERVATIONS immediate availabilities and confir­
mation of flights
— FREE TICKET DELIVERY ANYWHERE ON CAMPUS—full time delivery 
service
— Payment by Transportation request form for authorized University 
travel
— We accept all Major Credit Cards
CRUISES 
RAIL
FOR RESERVATIONS CALL:
Airlines, hotels auto rentals 
CMU extension #2999 
or
421-2500
Vacation Planning 
521-7300
JaaaaaaaaabaaaaaaaaaaaapaaaaaaaaaaaayaaaaaaaaaaaabaaaaaaaaaaaayaaaaaaaaahaayalaaaaaaaabaaaaaaaaaaaabaaaaaaaaaaaayaaaaaaaaaaaayaaaaaaaaaaaabaaaaaaaaaaaayaaaaaaaaaaaabaaaaaaaaaaaabaaaaaaaaaaaayaaaaaaaaaaaabaaaaaaaaaaaayaaaaaaaaaaaapaaaaaaalaabaaaaaaaaaaaayaaaaaJ
THE STROH BREWERY COMPANY, DETROIT, MICHIGAN © 1978
For the real beer lover.
aaaaaaaaaaaayaaaaaaaaaaaayaaaaaaaaaaaayaaaaaaaaaaaapaaaaaaaaaaaabaaaaaaaaaaaabHaaaahaaaaayaaaaaaaaaaaayaaaaaaaaaaaabaaaaaaaaaaaabaaalaaaaaayaaaaaaaaaaaayahaaaaaalayaaaaaaaaaaaayaaaaaaaKE

---------------------------------------------------

MENTSIk CLASSIFIED A PS ---------
'LASSIFIED ANNOUNCEMENTS: Dead­
line, Wednesday, noon. Rate»$.10 word. 
¡Address all classifieds to TARTAN Busi- 
Iness Manager.
classified
SKIS ' Want to sell pair of once used
French Stratix 200s w/Tyrolia 350 
bindings, best offer. Call 687-0964 after
PM.
Exotic dancers, excellent entertainment for
private groups. Call Kitkat or Cristie 
731-8877. v ‘
PARTIERS — FRATERNITIES : Your
next party can rock with "THE SYSTEM"- 
a powerful sound and light system designed 
to make your next party COOK. Call 
Rowland 782-2354 alter 6 PM.
Help Wanted. Three Work-Study students 
wanted for clerical work (filing, light 
typing, running errands, etc. ) in EE De­
partment Office. Contact Sharon Johnson, 
HH 108, x2454.
RENT-A-TECH has doubled its office hrs:
Monday-Thursday 
I0 AM to 9 PM 
| Friday
I0 AM to. 5 PM 
Saturday
I0 AM to I PM 
at Room 58 Skibo or call anytime and 
leave a message.
Brothers of SAE,
Pitt was it, now it's CMU and you.
Sisters of ADP
To Alice:
Get the sweat ball off of your nose.
Signed,
Roseann
To all of you with love and affection.
Some fantasies are terribly sweet and 
should never be confused with reality. No 
replies wanted, no goodbyes necessary.
Jack
BEHIND IN YOUR READING AL­
READY?? Attend a free speed-reading 
lesson. That's right, Evelyn Wood Reading 
1 Dynamics will be back on campus as of 
1 this coming Monday. See next week's 
I TARTAN for details.
general
TO ALL CMU FOREIGN STUDENTS
AND VISITORS: All Aliens are required 
to report their addresses to the Immi­
gration Office during January of each year.
¡><1) An Alien Address Report Card (Form 
I-53) may be picked up at any U.S. Post 
Office or the Immigration Office Down­
town; (2) complete all items on the card; 
(3) place a stamp on the reverse side of 
the card and drop the card into the near­
est mailbox. Any alien who willfully or in­
excusably fails to. report as required is 
liable to be taken into custody and de­
ported. Imprisonment or fines may be 
U levied before deportation.
ATTENTION SENIORS: The Senior Ban­
quet is coming on Saturday, January 27 
and all seniors are cordially invited. Tickets 
are available at the Alumni Office (5th 
floor Warner Hall) until Wednesday, Jan­
uary 24. You must have an ID to get a 
ticket and you must have a ticket to get 
in to the banquet. Please join us for fun, 
food, music and prizes.
The Modern Languages and Literature Vis­
iting Committee will meet with all interest- 
CMU students to discuss the evaluation 
of the Modern Languages and Literature 
Department and the Translat ion/English as 
(l Soi ond Language Center, on January 16, 
bi'iwoon 3 and 5 PM, in Baker Hall 246 A. 
Any* quest ions concerning the meeting can 
l)(‘ addressed to Carolyn Boardman, Asst. 
Dean, H&SS, at ext. 2830:
Blood donors needed. At least four blood
donors are needed at St. Francis Hospital, 
45th Street, Lawrenceville, to donate 
blood in the name of Edward Metzer. 
For more information call the Blood 
Bank of Pittsburgh, 805 5th Avenue at 
456-1900.
John Crecine, Dean of H&SS, holds open
office hours Tuesday, 1:30 to 3:30 PM.
President Richard M. Cyert will have
open office hours for students during 
February, March, and April.
The first date for these meetings is 
Friday, February 2, 1978 between 3 and 5 
PM in his office. Students who wish to 
meet individually with the president should 
telephone his office, 578—2200, for an 
appointment between 3 and 4 o'clock. 
The hour between 4 and 5 o'clock will 
be open for students who want to meet 
with the president but do not have an 
appointment.
It is hoped that this program will be a 
benefit to both the president and the 
students in allowing students direct contact 
with him.
The Student Senate has vacant seats in
the College of Fine Arts, and in Humani­
ties and Social Sciences. Any member 
of these colleges desiring to fill these 
seats should pick up a petition and infor­
mation at the Skibo Information Desk. 
The deadline for submission will be 
January 26. Only 25 signatures 
are required for nomination, so 
become involved.
Counselors, over 19, for unique overnight
boys' summer camp in Blue Ridge 
Mountains of Pa. Able to instruct either 
one of the following: Water safety,water ski­
ing,Boating, Soccer, Basketball, Athletics, 
Arts and Crafts, Group Head. Riflery, Ham 
Radio, Rocketry, Science, Archery, Track, 
Tennis, Golf, or Pioneering. Write Camp 
Director, 138 Red Rambler Drive, Lafay­
ette Hill, Pa. 19444.
Join the grass roots revolution! Nation
saving time is here. Membership fee $10. 
CHRISTIAN BULL MOOSE FLYING 
TIGER PARTY. P.O. Box 1094, Manila, 
Phillipines. Fifty per cent commission paid 
to recruiters of new members.
Projects illustrating the imaginative use of
color in the fields of textile design, graph­
ics, packaging, interior design, architecture 
and product design will be on display in the 
Design Department Gallery January 9 
through January 19. The exhibit is the re­
sult of a semester long project developed 
by advanced design students at CMU. Ex­
amples of the work on display include ex­
periments with color photocopying, a kit 
to teach middle school aged children the 
basic physics of color, an analysis of comic 
book colors and their use in other contexts 
such as record jackets, and a study of the 
colors typically used in Victorian architec­
ture. The Design Department Gallery is lo­
cated on the third floor of Baker Hall. Gal­
lery hours are 11:30 AM to 1:30 PM Mon­
day through Friday.
EVELYN WOOD PEADING DYNAMICS
IS BACK ON CAMPUS!! All next week 
you can spend an hour with us, learning 
to read faster, more efficiently and with 
BETTER COMPREHENSION!
Meeting: Optical Society of America, Pitts­
burgh Section on January 17, 8:30 PM in 
Hunt Library Multipurpose Room. The lec­
ture title is ''Fiber, Optics, Classical and 
Modern.”'The Speaker will be Rod Ander­
sen of Galileo Electro-Optics Corpor­
ation. A film will be shown.
clubs
Amateur Radio Club meeting tonight!
8:00 PM, Room 401, Hamerschlag.
Old and new members welcome.
CMU AIESEC meets every Wednesday at
4:30 PM in Skibo II. The campus commun­
ity is welcome.
Fusion Club will meet in Skibo, Room 45
at 7 PM on Thursday.
The THISTLE staff will hold a working
meeting tommorrow night, January 17, at 
7:30 PM in Skibo 46-A. Anyone interested 
in working on the yearbook is welcome.
CMU's Club Francophone will present
Les Vacances de Monsieur Hulot, a
comedy by director Jacques Tati, as its 
first movie this semester. Showing is set 
for 8 PM, on Wednesday, January 17, in DH 
22I0. All are welcome. Admission for 
CMU students is $l, for others $1.50. 
Movie funded by Activities Fee.
On Sunday, January 21 at noon there
will be a B'nai B'rith Hillel Brunch in the 
lounge at 315 S. Bellefield.
There will be a wine and cheese party at
B'nai B'rith Hillel, 315 S. Bellefield on 
Saturday, January 20 at 9 PM.
The Society of Automotive Engineers will
meet today, Tuesday Jan. 16, to discuss 
the future plans concerning the design 
and construction phases of the Mini-Baja 
vehicle for the May '79 Milwaukee Com­
petition. If you are an S.A.E. member or 
are interested in participating, join us 
at 4:30 PM in the Scaife Engineering Aud­
itorium.
Karate Club - Beginner's classes starting
this week. Practices on Tues. and Thurs. 
from 6:30 to 8:30 PM and Saturday 
11:30 AM to 1:30 PM in Thistle Hall. 
Everybody welcome.
A SELF-DEFENSE course is being offered
by the Physical Education Dept, beginning 
January 10 from 4-6 PM, Thistle Hall. 
Anyone interested can sign up in the Phys­
ical Education Office, Gym 104.
KARATE WOMEN has moved its location
for the winter semester to Ursuline Acad­
emy at 201 South Winebiddle Street in 
Bloomfield. The ten-week self-defense 
courses are designed for women aged 14 
and older with no previous experience in 
self-defense or the martial arts. The winter 
course schedule is as follows: Monday 
evening classes will be held from 6:00 to 
7:30 PM, January 22nd to March 26, 
1979; Saturday afternoon classes will be 
conducted from noon to 1:30 PM, January 
27th to March 31, 1979.
For more information and registration 
forms, send a self-addressed, stamped en­
velope to Julie Ford or Maggie Nefores, 
5547 Bartlett Street, Pittsburgh, PA 
15217; or call 421-9045, 243-5770.
Activities Board Coffeehouse Committee
will be holding auditions in the month 
of January. The date and location will be 
announced in next week's TARTAN. 
Coffeehouse is interested in music, as well 
as mime, comedy, juggling, acting, etc.
Activities Board Coffeehouse Committee
will hold a meeting Thursday, January 18 
in Room 33 Skibo, at 5 00 PM. At this 
time we will plan the remaining coffee­
houses of the Spring Semester. All sug­
gestions are welcome. Past members and 
any interested students are invited to 
attend.
DO NOT wait until you fall behind in your
work. FREE TUTORING is available in 
most CIT, MIS, and AMS courses, as well 
as some H&SS courses. Stop in the Peer 
Help Center, Baker Hall 150-A to sign up 
for a tutor.
Free Academic Student Tutoring
(F.A.S.T.) is having a meeting for tutors on 
Wednesday, January 17 at 4:30 PM and 
Thursday, January 18 at 7:30 PM in the 
Peer Help Center, Baker Hall 150-A. All 
tutors from last semester with hours to 
report and all new tutors are requested to 
attend either meeting.
IF YOU'RE NOT HAPPY WITH THE
WAY YOU READ: Attend a free intro­
ductory speed-reading lesson starting next 
Monday,
scholarships prizes
Applications will be accepted for 3 year
and 2 year US Army Scholarships through 
February 15. The Army scholarship pays 
full tuition plus books and fees and pro­
vides a stipend of $100 per month. A ser­
vice obligation is incurred. For additional 
details see Major Rivers in Gym 203 or 
call 578-2196.
Each year for 5 years of the summer, a
program is offered to students in the U.S. 
and Canada to travel and study in Spain.' 
Plans are already in progress for the 15th 
Summer School Program in Spain 1979. 
Students may earn 9 quarter college cre­
dits.
All persons interested should write to 
Dr. Doreste, Augustana College, Rock­
land, II. 61201, as soon as possible. Space 
is very limited.
Artist? CMU student? Work with plant
themes? The Hunt Institute for Botanical 
Documentation, Hunt Library, would like 
to consider your work for an exhibition 
of student art in the Hunt Library Pent­
house. Any medium is acceptable, as 
long as the subject is plants. Entry forms 
are available from John Brindle or James 
White in the Penthouse. Selection will be 
made in conjuction with the Department 
of Art. For more information, call x2440.
The Department of Modern Languages and
Literatures will administer proficiency tests 
in French, German, Spanish and Russian 
on Saturday, January 20 at 10 AM, in the 
language laboratory (Margaret Morrison 
310).
Any student may take one of these 
tests; there is no charge. The test takes 95 
minutes.
H&SS students who have to satisfy the 
old core curriculum requirement in foreign 
languages will be exempt from foreign 
language study if they demonstrate inter­
mediate-level proficiency by earning a 
score of 520 in French or Spanish or 500 
in German or Russian.
Students may also take this test in or­
der to establish their level of competence 
in the language gained through self-study, 
study abroad, etc., or to determine their 
level of achievement in order to continue 
further study in that language. The tests 
are primarily designed for students who 
have had two years or more of college lan­
guage instruction although this is not a 
prerequisite for taking the test.
Students wishing to take one of these 
tests should sign up in the Modern Lan­
guages Department office, Baker Hall 
232-C, before Friday, January 19.

---------------------------------------------------

upcoming events
3/ ."b * • *
January 18
6,9, 12 PM in DH2210 
Lolita - 1962
Admission is $.75 with CMU ID / $1 w.o.
Under the direction of Stanley Kubrick 
and script by Vladmir Nabokov, James 
Mason plays the complacent degenerate, 
Humbert, who is so consumed with a 
strange passionate lust for teenaged 
Lolita that it finally destroys him. Sue 
Lyon (in her film debut) plays the per­
versely precocious nymphet, and Peter 
Sellers plays the shy, relentless Quilty.
January 19
6, 8:15, 10:30, 12:45 PM in DH2210 
Coming Home
Admission is $1 with CMU ID/$1.25 w.o.
When here husband, Bruce Dern, goes 
off to the Viet Nam War, Jane Fonda helps 
the cause by volunteering to work in a 
hospital. She falls in love with a para­
plegic (Jon Voight) and learns what love 
really is, untill her Husband comes home. 
One of the more human looks at the Viet 
Nam War.
AB Coffeehouse Committee will be 
presenting Nick and George, Saturday 
January 20. Nick and George have per­
formed at coffeehouse in past semesters 
and are back by popular demand. They 
play guitar and sing. Coffeehouse will 
begin at 9:30 PM in the Wherrett Room 
and is free. Refreshments will be served.
music...
CMU’s Philharmonic will present a con­
cert on January 26 at 8 PM in Carnegie Mu­
sic Hall. The program will be conducted by 
1st van Jaray and will feature The Birds by 
Respighi, Rapsodie Espagnole by Ravel, 
and Beethoven’s Symphony No. 5. The 
concert is free and open to the public.
The CMU chapter of the Music Educa­
tors National Conference has people avail­
able for giving private instrumental and 
voice lessons. For more information, write 
to MENC, c/o Music Dept., CMU, Pgh., 
15213, or call 521-0420 after 6 PM.
Rush will appear at the Civic Arena on 
January 19 at 7:30 PM. Tickets are $7.75 
general admission. More information and 
tickets may be gotten at the Civic Arena 
Box Office, 471-1312.
La Traviata will be presented by the 
Pittsburgh Opera on January 18 and 20 at 
Heinz Hall. For more information call 281- 
0912.
Leontyne Price will give a recital at 
Heinz Hall on January 19 at 8 PM. Tickets 
are $12.50, $10, $7.50 and $6 on sale at 
Heinz Hall, Kaufmann’s and Gimbels.
The Pentaphonic Woodwind Quintet 
will present a concert on January 21 at 8 
PM in the Eddy Theatre on Chatham's 
campus. The event is open and free to the 
public.
Harpsicord/pianist, Brett Duggan will 
perform Bach's Goldberg Variations and 
Beethovan's Diabelli Variations on January
16 at 8 PM in the Alumni Concert Hall. The 
concert is free and open to the public.
Alki Steriopoulos will appear at the Top 
Shelf, 5100 Centre Ave., starting January 
18. He will be backed by Mike Houlis on 
bass. For more information call 566-2900 
or 355-0777.cinema...
January 20, SDC presents:
Guys and Dolls at 6 and 11 PM
Marlon Brando, Frank Sinatra, Jean 
Simmons. One of Broadway's greatest 
musical hits has become one of the screen’s 
blockbuster entertainments. This was 
Brando’s only musical role.
The Three Musketeers at 8:45 PM
Lana Turner, GENE KELLY, Vincent 
Price. In a non-singing role, dancer Gene 
Kelly plays the noble hero who joins the 
musketeers, and performs some of the 
greatest swashbuckeling ever seen. “Great 
Entertainment".
Movies will be held in DH2210. 
Admission is $.50 with ID/$1 without.
Top Hat, starring Fred Astaire and Gin­
ger Rogers, can be seen on January 21 at 
7:30 PM in the Carnegie Lecture Hall. Ad­
mission is $1.JjgSggjgjJ
682-144!
v y l pay f°r g first
discount^0 make y° Stamp certificates onto avail^1'1rentals In all 50 U.S. states.
National Car Rental
Too Late Blues by John Cassavetes will 
be shown in the Carnegie Lecture Hall on 
January 18 at 8 PM. Admission is $1.
The Pittsburgh Playhouse Film Reper­
tory will feature this week: January 16, 
Man Who Fell To Earth; January 17, 
Repulsion; January 18, Investigation of a 
Citizen Above Suspicion; January 19, 
Swept Away, January 20, Children of 
Paradise; January 21, Dr. Zhivago; and 
January 22, Lion in Winter. All seats are 
$2 with two showings nightly for most 
movies at 7:30 and 9:30. For more in­
formation call 621-4445.theater...
Theatre Express will present Assassins 
January 18, 19, 20, 21, 25, 26, 27, and 28 
and February 1, 2, 3, 4, 8, 9, 10 and 11. 
Curtain times are Thursdays, Fridays and 
Saturdays at 8:30 PM and Sunday matinees 
at 2 PM. For reservations call 621-5454.
The Pittsburgh Playhouse will present 
Neil Simon’s Last of the Red Hot Lovers 
opening January 18. For more information 
call 621-4445.
The Pittsburgh Public Theatre will pre­
sent The Importance of Being Earnest 
from December 20 through January 21. 
Curtain times are 8 PM Tuesday, Wednes­
day and Thursday, 8:30 PM Friday and 
Saturday, 7 PM Sunday and 2 PM matinees 
on December 17, 23 and 31. For more 
information call 765-3500.art...
1
Bunny Goldman’s Paper Images will be 
on display in the Entrance Gallery, mu_ 
seum of Art, Carnegie Institute from 
vember 30 thru January 28. Hours are P 
Tuesday thru Saturday 10 AM to 5 PM and| 
Sundays 1 to 6 PM.
The collection of Mr. and Mrs. Oren 
Raphael will be on display in Gallery D 
Museum of Art, Carnegie Institute from 
December 7 thru January 21. Museum 
hours are Friday thru Saturday 10 AU 
to 5 PM and Sundays 1 to 6 PM.
Objects: Modern Design is an exhibition 
on display in the Treasure Room, Museum 
of Art, Carnegie Institute, thru January 7 
The Museum is open Tuesday thru Satur. 
day 10 AM to 5 PM and Sundays from 1 
to 6 PM.
The collection of Dr. and Mrs 
Raymond Goldblum will be on display a 
Gallery D, Museum of Art, Carnegie In- 
stitute from January 25 thru March 11. 
Museum hours are Tuesday thru Saturday 
10 AM to 5 PM and Sundays 1 to 6 PM.
Winning photos in the Natural World 
Photo Contest will be on display in the 
Changing Exhibits Gallery of Carnegie Mu­
seum of Natural History. The exhibit will 
remain through March 18.
Debra Lynn Turici is exibiting her one 
woman art show, Prints Above Pittsburgh, 
at the Cliffside Restaurant, 1208 Grand­
view Avenue, Mt. Washington, now thru 
January 28. The exibit is free and open to 
the public. A wide variety of lithographs, 
silkscreen, relief, and collagraph prints will 
be on display. For more information call 
761-0439.
G. Kleintop, R. Slevin and P. Wright will 
display prints, drawings and paintings at 
Forbes Street Gallery from January 16 
thru 21. Gallery times are Wednesday thru 
Sunday 12 to 4 PM and Tuesday thru 
Thursday 7 to 9 PM.
The Pittsburgh Print Group will present 
its juried Winter Show of members’ prints 
at the Arts and Crafts Center, Fifth and 
Shady Avenues, from January 27 - Febru­
ary 18, 1979. The exhibit is free and open 
to the public. For more information call 
Debbie Turici at 761-0439.
The Art for Passavant Committee will 
accept artists' original paintings for exhibit 
on January 21 from 2 to 4 PM in the As­
sembly Hall of North Hills Passavant Hos­
pital. For further information contact the 
Auxiliary-Volunteer Office, 366-1000 or 
931-3840, Ext. 310.
Reflections from the Third Day-Photo­
graphic Revelations of Plant Designs will 
be on display from November 20 thru Feb­
ruary 16 in the Penthouse of Hunt Library. 
The exhibition can be viewed free of 
charge, Monday thru Friday, from 9 AM 
to 5 PM.
etc...
Liberace will entertain at Heinz Hall for 
9 shows, January 29 through February 4, 
joined by The Magi Circus of Tiawan, Mar 
co Valenti, Steve Bor and Dancing Water. 
Performances will be at 7:30 PM. Matinee^ 
on Saturday and Sunday will be at 2:30* 
PM. Tickets range from $11.50 to $6.50 and 
are on sale at Heinz Hall, Kaufmann’s and 
Gimbels.
The Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre will pre­
sent Pas de Dix, Othello and Etudes on 
January 28 at 2:30 PM. For tickets call 
281-0360.
Siobhan McKenna will appear in a pro­
gram, The Brandy Tree, which is a reading 
from Irish writers on February 23 at 8PMJ 
in the Carnegie Music Hall. Tickets are $4, 
$6, $7.50 and $9, available from the Inter­
national Poetry Forum.
The Massenkoff Russian Folk Festival 
will perform traditional dance and songs at 
Heinz Hall on January 21 at 7:30 PM. Tick­
ets are available at Heinz Hall, Kaufmann’s 
and Gimbels.
START THE SEMESTER OFF "WRITE" ¡1 
JOIN THE THISTLE STAFF
YEABROOK STAFF MEETING TOMORROW NIGHT 
JANUARY 17, 7:30 P.M, Skibo 46-A
