Crecine Named 
President of 
Georgia Tech
By LISA MCANANYTartan Contributing Editor 
Georgia Tech announced on August 5 
that Dr. John Patrick Crecine had been 
selected as its president. Crecine steps 
down as Senior Vice President for 
Academic Affairs here at Carnegie 
Mellon. He will take his new position 
full-time November 1; until then, he 
will work at both Universities.
In an interview Friday, Crecine said 
that for him, “the transition would be an 
easy one in terms of the types of institu­
tions. Georgia Tech, which is part of 
Georgia’s state school system, empha­
sizes science and engineering. The 
long-run agenda at Georgia Tech is to 
continue its improvement as a univer­
sity, and its evolution into a world-class 
institution.”
Crecine’s Humanities and Social Sci­
ences background makes him an anom­
aly at both Carnegie Mellon and Geor­
gia Tech. However, Crecine said he 
plans to draw on that background to 
“broaden the notion of a first-rate tech­
nological education,” during his tenure. 
Crecine is pleased with the academic 
standards already in place at the univer­
sity. “Georgia Tech has an excellent 
undergraduate body—every bit as good 
as Carnegie Mellon’s. SAT scores gen­
erally run 10 to 20 points higher here 
than at Carnegie Mellon, which is un­
usual for a state school.”
Crecine’s departure will mean reor­
ganization in the upper echelons of the 
CMU’S administration. The position of 
Vice President for Academic Affairs 
will be eliminated, and most specula­
tion points to a single-provost system. 
In the past, Carnegie Mellon has had a 
two-provost system with Provost Angel 
Jordan in change of CIT and Crecine in 
charge of the three other undergraduate 
colleges, SUPA, and GSIA.
Crecine believes that the administra­
tion will also be “moving more respon­
sibility into Bill Elliott’s court.” Elliott 
is currently the Vice President for Ad­
missions and is a possible candidate for 
Vice President for Student Affairs, a 
position that does not currently exist, 
but one many people are pushing for.
Regarding the potential administra­
tive changes at Carnegie Mellon, Cre­
cine said, “I strongly recommended to 
the President that he take on some of my 
responsibilities directly, including at­
tention to computing and curricular 
matters.” Crecine believes that the new 
structure will be “better for the Univer­
sity.”
Crecine, 47, received all three of his 
degrees at CMU, including a B.S. in 
«•* Industrial Management in 1961, a 
master’s in Industrial Administration in 
1963, and a PhD in the same field in 
1966. After teaching for several years at 
the University of Michigan, Crecine 
returned to CMU in 1976 as Dean of 
H&SS and Professor of Political Econ­
omy. In 1983, Crecine was named Vice 
President for Academic Affairs.
FEATURES.....................Page 11
Find out what’s hip on campus in the new
Spectacle column
SPORTS............................Pape 16
Brandéis University joins the University
Athletic Conference
The Tartan
Volume 82, Issue 1 Carnegie Mellon University September 1,1987
Construction continues in front of Wean Hall...
Ravine Dominates Design
Van Mastrigt 
Found Guilty
By DRUE MILLER
Tartan Production Manager
Darrell Van Mastrigt, the CMU freshman 
charged with stabbing a Robert Morris student 
to death last February, was found guilty July 16.
Jeanne Goldberg, a 20-year-old student at 
Robert Morris, was found in South Park on the 
morning of Sunday, February 8, 1987. She was 
naked from the waist down and had multiple 
stab wounds in the neck and chest. She had spent 
the previous evening on the CMU campus, 
beginning in the Tartan Grill where she met Van 
Mastrigt. They attended several fraternity par­
ties until 4:30 am. when they left campur to go 
to the O's. When they returned. Van Mastrigt 
parked Goldberg's car in the Hamerschlag lot 
and had sex with her in the back seat. He then 
drove her to South Park, stabbed her, and left her 
body in a grove.
Van Mastrigt was arrested the following morn­
ing when he volunteered information to the 
County Police.
Van Mastrigt faces a possible life without 
parole sentence. His sentence will be handed 
down Friday, September 4th.
Phoio by Andy Gillespie.
Work is continuing on the stone walk in front of Hamerschlag and Wean Halls. The 
old stones were loose and had to be removed so the walk could be re-Iayed with a 
firmer foundation. For a complete story on summer renovations, see page 4.
By ERIC W. LEULIETTETartan Assistant News Editor 
Dominant in the university design submitted
by Dennis, Clark & Associates is “the possi­
bility of restoring the natural hollow in front of 
Margaret Morrison Carnegie Hall.” The state­
ment released by the jury of the competition 
cited this ravine for the “measured series of 
delightfully varied spaces” it would create.
The model in Skibo shows the ravine stretch­
ing from the current location of the tennis 
courts to Panther Hollow. A bridge spans the 
hollow, allowing access from the “great green 
quadrangle” (the Cut) to Hunt Library and the 
academic buildings.
Director of University Planning, Patrick 
Keating, is cautious about this proposal. “The 
ravine is somewhat essential to [the archi­
tects’] scheme or concept. It is not essential to 
the University Center,” he said. The ravine 
does not allow for buildings located behind 
Hamburg Hall (the Bureau of Mines), which 
will not be tom down. The original proposal 
probably will not be carried out, Keating 
stated, “we still have the concept. It could be 
considered an independent project.”
The University Center, however, will be 
completed in three to five years at a projected 
cost of $28 to $30 million. The center has six 
distinct parts: a ballroom and auditorium, 
colonnaded loggias, a gym, a pool, a central 
meeting room, and a bookstore.
Keeping with the spirit of the Master Plan, 
the design “creates a new and better sense of 
entry and ‘gateway’ to the campus from 
Forbes Avenue.” This is accomplished with 
the auditorium and the loggias. The audito­
rium, which will sit on the current location of 
the Skibo parking lot, acts as a tower entry to 
the campus. The loggias will line the Cut from 
Forbes to the proposed ravine.
The largest section of the center will be a 130 
x 130 gym, the square colonnaded building in
the model. Between it and Margaret Morri­
son Carnegie Hall will be the 50 meter pool, 
which will include a diving tank. Other rec­
reational facilities in the plan are two small 
gyms, a weight gym, and several racquetball 
courts.
The student center includes a dining area, 
assembly and conference rooms, lounges, an 
exhibit area, offices for student organiza­
tions and administrative offices.
Finally, beside Warner Hall and connected
to the western loggia is the new bookstore.
The plans also include a new dorm and dining 
facility along Margaret Morrison Street, a per­
forming arts theater on the western loggia on the 
edge of the rav ine, a chape I, a Greek amphithea­
ter, and tennis courts. The dorm and dining 
facility will be built before the University Cen­
ter.
The dorm is projected to cost $10 million and 
the 600-seat theater has been priced between $6 
and $8 million.
Photo courtesy of Public Relations.
Existing structures:
W. Warner Hall.
U. Univ Comp Center.
M. Margaret Me* i ByLIS
F. Forbes Ave.
C. CFA.
Proposed structures:
1. Ballroom and auditorium.
2. Gymnasium.
3. Pool.
4. Central meeting room.
5. Colannaded loggias.
6. Chapel.
7. Theater.
8. Bridge.
9. Cut.
10. Bookstore.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—The Tartan—September 1,1987
//Äjv /> Ê/MT*i
VMVI^f tlSff ll^ir Phot tr cutr \\%trVW7/ X«?» *”»/
Aquino Faces Strike 
And Coup Attempt
MANILA — Philippine President Corazon 
C. Aquino faced opposition from both left and 
right last week.
Her first crisis came with a nationwide strike 
Wednesday to protest fuel increases and the 
inflation that it sparked. The strike attracted 
broad support.
Friday several hundred soldiers mutinied 
and attacked a half dozen government and 
military installations. At least 40 people were 
killed, many civilians. The fifth coup attempt 
on Aquino’s 18-month-old government, was 
the worst.
Gen. Fidel V. Ramos, armed forces Chief of 
Staff, estimates that 500 to 1200 soldiers took 
part in the attacks. Leaving Congressmen 
unprotected, the entire 200 man Filipino 
House security detachment joined the mutiny. 
By Sunday, 705 of the mutineers were in 
detention.
U.S. troops were restricted to Clark Air 
Force Base after three policemen were killed 
in a nearby ambush.
Geneva Arms Talks 
Approach Settlement
GENEVA — Chances for signing an arms 
control agreement this year seem certain after 
two recent announcements. American nego­
tiators proposed Tuesday to reduce the num­
ber of on site inspections the treaty would 
allow. On Wednesday, West German Chan­
cellor Helmut Kohl indicated that his 
country’s Pershing 1A missiles, which carry 
U.S. nuclear warheads, could be dismantled.
In his Saturday radio address, President 
Reagan said the U.S. was “close to an agree­
ment’’ which would eliminate superpower 
intermediate range nuclear weapons.
Two minor obstacles remain in the Geneva 
talks. The two countries must sort out techni­
cal details of verification and settle on a time­
table for destroying the weapons. The U.S. 
would like the Soviets to dismantle their 
weapons at a faster rate, so the countries will 
finish simultaneously.
The Soviets have 1565 warheads on their 
short and medium range missiles while the 
U.S. has 332 warheads on intermediate range 
forces.
South African Mine 
Strike Leaves 9 Dead
JOHNNESBURG — The chief negotiator 
for six mining firms in South Africa an­
nounced a settlement Sunday. He said miners 
were scheduled to return to work for the night 
shift.
The nationwide strike began Aug. 7 with 
more than 250,000 black miners refusing to 
work. At least nine miners were killed in 
clashes with police and other security forces. 
The strike idled half of the gold mines and a 
quarter of the coal pits in the country.
The nation’s largest mining company, Anglo 
American Corp., fired 18,000 miners after the 
union voted Wednesday to reject an offer of a 
slight improvement in benefits. Three thou­
sand of these workers had staged a sit-in a mile 
underground. Over 40,000 workers have been 
fired throughout the nation.
THE PLACE TO BE SEEN ON A FRIDAY 
try.
jf"f Jjy Bnai Brith Hillel \ / 160 N. Craig Street
Phone- 621-8875 
Don’t miss the opening Shabbat Special
Friday Sept. 4 6:00pm
services-both Reform and Traditional 
dinner- strictly kosher and delicious 
"Ice-breaker program follows dinner 
it& a great place to meet new friends 
Reservations are a must so call now! 
cost: $31)0-members, $3.50 non-members 
(membership is $10.00/semester and 
entitles you to a discount on all 
events.) 
WERE LOOKING FORWARD TO MEETING YOU
Congressmen Mail 
AIDS Pamphlets
WASHINGTON — A detailed government 
pamphlet about AIDS will be sent out to nearly 
seven million U.S. households, following a 
dispute between the Reagan Administration 
and Congress about whether they should be 
mass mailed. The Reagan Administration 
contends the booklet, prepared by Surgeon 
General C. Everett Koop, is too long and 
detailed, but lawmakers from 13 states and the 
Virgin Islands have opted to use their congres­
sional mailing privileges to distribute the 
pamphlet to their constituents.
Director John Huston, 
Actor Lee Marvin Die
NEW YORK — The entertainment industry 
lost two artists in the past week.
The body of Academy Award-winning di­
rector John Huston, who died in New England 
Friday at age 81, was flown to Los Angeles 
Sunday for burial at Hollywood Memorial 
Park. Huston directed the classic films "The 
Maltese Falcon’’ and “The African Queen.”
One of the movie’s perennial tough guys, 
actor Lee Marvin, died Saturday of a heart 
attack at a hospital in Tucson, Arizona. He was 
63. Marvin is perhaps best remembered for 
such movies as “Cat Ballou,” for which he 
won an Oscar, “The Dirty Dozen” and “The 
Man Who Shot Liberty Valance.”
Central American 
Forum Sparks Fight *
SAN FRANSISCO — Angry scuffling and 
fistfights broke out Sunday outside a San 
Francisco hotel when supporters and critics of 
U.S. policy in Central America confronted 
each other. Three protesters were arrested on 
misdemeanor charges of battery and released.
The incident occurred as participants arrived ^ 
for the “Oliver North Forum,” sponsored by a ^ 
group campaigning to raise money to back the 
fired national security aide and to support the 
Nicaraguan contras.
Retirement Board Sells 
South African Holdings
PITTSBURGH — The Allegheny County 
Retirement Board will sell about $25 million 
in investments in South Africa. The board said ^ 
Friday that it has considered divesting for a 
long time and made the decision after deter­
mining that the board will not lose any money 
by selling the interests. County Commissioner 
Pete Flaherty said Friday that he has directed 
the pension fund managers to begin selling the 
stocks and bonds.
News Blurbs appear courtesy 
of the Assoiated Press
SEMESTER IN SPAIN(BEGINNER OR ADVANCED)
Not just for Spanish majors only, but for everyone: beginners, “in between” 
students, and advanced. Put some excitement into your college career!!
BEGINNER OR ADVANCED-Cost is about 
the same as a semester in a U.S. college: 
$3,870. Price includes jet round trip to 
Seville from New York, room, board, and 
tuition complete. Government grants and 
loans may be applied towards our 
programs.
CN2664n
college you attend
your present street address
city state zip
It you would like information on future programs give 
permanent address below.
your permanent street address
city
Live with a Spanish family, attend classes 
four hours a day, four days a week, four 
months. Earn 16 hrs. of credit (equivalent 
to 4 semesters taught in U.S. colleges over 
a two year time span). Your Spanish studies 
will be enhanced by opportunities not avail­
able in a U.S. classroom. Standardized 
tests show our students’ language skills 
superior to students completing two year 
programs in U.S. Advanced courses also.
Hurry. It takes a lot of time to make all ar­
rangements.
SPRING SEMESTER-Jan. 30-May 29 
FALL SEMESTER-Aug. 29-Dec. 19
each year.
FULLY ACCREDITED—A Program of Trinity 
Christian College.
For full information—send coupon to:
SEMESTER IN SPAIN
2065 Laraway Lake Drive S.E., CN 
Grand Rapids, Michigan 49506 
(A Program of Trinity Christian College)
ECKANKAR ®
The Ancient Science 
of Soul Travel
presents
KARMA
4^ god
Free introductory book dis­
cussions every Thursday at 
6:30 at the Pgh. ECK Center 
413 Semple St., Oakland 
682-6432

---------------------------------------------------

September 1,1987—The Tartan—Page 3
Dennis, Clark & Associates Win Design Competition
By ERIC W. LEULIETTE
Tartan Assistant News Editor
The Boston firm of Dennis, Clark & Associ­
ates, winner of the Carnegie Mellon Design 
Competition, will submit a revised plan to the 
University later this month. The new design 
must be under the $30 million budget, include 
^parking facility, and move the new dorm.
' The design competition required a complete 
layout for the campus as well as designs for a 
University Center, a dormitory/dining facility, 
and a performing arts theater.
The jury of the competition called the win­
ning plan “romantic and poetic yet classically 
serene.”
Working in association with TAMS/New 
pngland Architects, Dennis, Clark & Associ­
ates were selected May 9 as the architects of 
the project. A model of their campus plan has 
been on display in Gray Matter since May.
The construction program will begin in the 
spring or summer of 1988. The first step will 
be to rotate the track and football field 90 
degrees and contruct the dorm. After this is 
completed, construction will begin on a two- 
or three-story parking facility and the Univer­
sity Center.
Director of University Planning, Patrick 
Keating, indicated that the dorm will be relo­
cated in the updated plan to help maintain the 
field space that rotating the track will affect.
The parking garage, according to Keating, 
will be located between Forbes and the track. 
Neither of these projects is included in the $30
Building Will House Physical Plant
By LISA MCANANY
Tartan Contributing Editor
CMU is constructing a building to house 
Physical Plant and a new centralized chilled 
water facility in Panther Hollow on the Bureau 
of Mines lower parking lot. University Plan­
ning Director, Pat Keating, sees the new build­
ing as a means of consolidating the Physical 
Plant department and freeing academic space 
in Porter Hall, currently occupied by that de­
partment.
Plans for the new building include three 
stories that will cover a total of 44,000 square 
feet. The building will house electricians, 
carpenters, groundskeepers, and the admini­
stration segment of Physical Plant.
According to Fred Rogers, Vice President 
for Business Affairs, the total cost of the proj­
ect now stands at $7.7 million, which will 
come from the University’s capital budget. A 
large portion of the cost is in the chilled water 
facility, which will provide air-conditioning 
for much of the campus.
** The idea of constructing a new Physical
Silky’s Dining Saloon 
in Squirrel Hill
Good food at
Reasonable Prices
Great Fun—
Shuffleboard, Darts, 
Hockey, Video
Every Monday 
Every Tuesday 
Every Wednesday 
Every Thursday
Pitcher Beer with Buffalo Wings 
Import Beer
Pitcher Beer with 12" Pizza 
Pitcher Long Island Iced Tea
$5 
$1 
$5 
$9
422-5360
Off Squirrel Hill Exit Parkway East 
Right on Murray 
V, block from Poli’s
61C Busline
Time to... Care More, Share MoreUnibedway
million price tag for the University Center.
The principal architects of the firm are Mi­
chael Dennis and Jeffrey Clark. Dennis is a 
professor of architecture at Harvard; Clark has 
taught architecture at Cornell and CMU. Their 
firm has done work for Syracuse, Harvard and 
Cornell.
Six invited participants were each paid 
$50,000 and expenses for submitting their 
preliminary designs. Invited firms were 
Damianos & Associates, with GBQC Associ­
ates; Jung/Brannen Associates, Inc.; Koetter. 
Kim & Associates; Machado & Silvetti Asso­
ciates; and Skidmore, Owings & Merrill.
The jury awarded honorable mentions to the
designs by Damianos & Associates of Pitts­
burgh and Koetter, Kim & Associates of 
Boston.
Outside jurors for the competition are Tho­
mas H. Beeby, dean of the Yale University 
School of Architecture; Robert Campbell, 
architect, architecture critic for the Boston 
Globe, and contributing editor for Architec­
ture magazine; and Graham Gund, head of 
Graham Gund Architects.
Assessors from CMU are Theodore (Ted) D. 
Nierenberg, University Center Committee 
Chairman, CMU alumnus, and founder of 
Dansk International Designs, Ltd.; Dahlen K.
Continued on page 4
Plant building came about one year ago, ac­
cording to Rogers. Excavation and construc­
tion began earlier this summer. Physical Plant 
is scheduled to move out of Porter Hall by May 
1988, and the new facility should be fully 
completed by November 1988.
Physical Plant is scheduled to vacate the 
space in Porter Hall by the end of the academic 
year so that the rooms may be renovated to 
accommodate parts of the Electrical and 
Computer Engineering, Computer Science, 
and Academic Computing Departments, 
states Rogers. Director of Physical Plant, Neil 
Binstock, says, “The project is designed to 
address the need to provide better quality 
space for students. Being consolidated in one 
location will also help Physical Plant to pro­
vide better service to the campus.”
Once finished, the roof of the building will 
provide a walkway between the Bureau of 
Mines and Wean Hall. CRS, the Texas-based 
firm in charge of the building project, de­
signed the facility so that the roof will be on the 
same level as the first floor of Wean Hall.
Student Affairs Implements Program
By KARL BARNHART
Tartan News Editor 
In an attempt to improve the quality of life on 
campus, Assistant to the Dean for Special 
Programs, Edward Lilley, and the Office of 
Student Affairs have divised a set of monthly 
themes designed to unify student activities.
Lilley said his goal is to give student activi­
ties administrative support and coordination. 
“The idea is nothing new, the programs were 
there, but the feeling was the University was 
not behind it—and this is not true.”
The themes are from September to April: 
Making Choices, Making a Difference, Sexu­
ality Lecture Series on Aids, Making it Right, 
Make Over, Making it Fun, Making a Choice, 
and Making it Through. Lilley said these titles 
could change given positive or negative stu­
dent input.
“This program is going to hit a few people, 
maybe not everybody, but at least by the end of
the year everybody’s interests. We want to 
have everyone feel that it’s their responsibility 
to speak up,” said Lilley.
There was no student involvement in the 
program’s conceptual development. Accord­
ing to Lilley, the program is to follow a “sea­
sonal theme that grows out of the Seven Vec­
tors of Health”. However, students did help 
finalize the individual activities. At this point. 
Student Affairs has an outline of activities they 
will support, and they invite student organiza­
tions to participate by hosting more activities 
that fit with their themes. Lilley said that if 
individual organizations have ideas forevents, 
he will coordinate their involvement in the 
program; Student Affairs will not give finan­
cial support.
Donna Morasky, Student Affairs Health 
Educator, said, “There is a lot going on [on 
campus] but no one knows about it. We want 
to get more people involved.”
PC Consultant
Academic Services has openings for about 55 part- 
time PC Consultants and may have openings for 
one or two part-time User Consultants for the fall 
term. Application forms are available at the UCON 
office in the UCC PC cluster.
PC Consultants staff the public PC clusters which 
are operated and managed by Academic Comput­
ing. They distribute personal computer software, 
report safety and equipment security problems, 
answer basic questions about the equipment, 
operating systems and applications packages that 
are used in the cluster(s) in which they work, 
arrange for the repair or replacement of defective 
equipment and maintain the cluster’s collections 
of disks and manuals.
Reliability and responsibility are essential because 
it is the PC Consultants who keep the public 
clusters operating smoothly for all users. Good 
communications skills and knowledge of at least 
one programming language with working knowl­
edge of at least one of the following: the IBM PC, 
Macintosh, Vax/VMS systems or the Andrew envi­
ronment. PC Consultants are given Andrew I.D.’s 
and accounts on most of the Computing Center’s 
Dec 20’s.
There are openings in most of the clusters at all 
times of the day, but particularly during morning 
and late night hours.

---------------------------------------------------

THE DISCOUNT ART SUPPLY STORE FOR ALL YOUR 
BACK TO SCHOOL NEEDS
CLASS -ASSIGNMENTS...15% Off/
- COM ??£ S SORSfcADGF 1?. PAASCHE)25% OFF!~NAMc t>fcAN£> NR BRUSHES 
ifcAD&ER FMSCWf iwATA)
qo% Aqq uAinoF-ART PORTFOL105/PRCENTAT70W CASfS
-=Alif#i£R 5£fo ipBi&N,aNr"Nt,Aqfu5KAfw) 
-FfdSMA Com /Äjv>M T*iT
- ./"¡&ARM 5n/D0ff LAMPS t&^SO FACH1,)F\Ai It/CiLT^APH 7
(Rtir. PRICE- 88.78-CAPPY PRfCt 3w)
VISIT OUR ART LOFT for Super Savings up to 50% on 
Canvas, Brushes, Artist Color
PROFESSIONAL STATS at Student Prices
10% STUDENT DISCOUNT With School I D 
FREE POPCORN !
HOURS: Mon-Fri 
Sat
8:45 to 5:30 
9:30 to 5:30
SPECIAL ENDS
OCT 31 1987
H CAPPY 323 Blvd o( the Allies (Downtown)PGH. PA 15222 412/281 2133
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED! 
Great Styles Start at ...
MUST HAVE COUPON 
~ ~SÄV~E~$2.Ö0
I PRECISION HAIRCUT
Complete with shampoo & styling
Offer Expires 
October 31
<&GftCAT EKPCCTflTitnS
PRECISION HAIRCUT TERS
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office
687-3500
He was just this guy in 
my class with cool- 
looking hair. I never 
thought we had any­
thing in common— 
until we ran into each 
other at Great Expecta­
tions.
Sarah and Tim: Hottest 
couple. Glass of ’87
Complete with written guarantee
PRECISION CUT
onlv $13.00
Complete with shampoo and blow style
NO APPOINTMENT AVNCCESSARr UMH I£S?£CTAT!0nS
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
JUST-A-CUT
only S8.00
Cut only

---------------------------------------------------

September 1,1987—The Tartan—Page 5
^Renovations Offer More Space
By JOSH RUBEN
Tartan Stajfwriter
Various buildings and common areas around 
the Carnegie Mellon campus have been reno­
vated and repaired over the summer with some 
of the work still underway.
Space, or the lack thereof, is the primary 
reason why many academic buildings have 
^ id their rooms and offices re-structured or re­
organized:
CFA- Some of the classrooms on the first 
floor are being re-decorated to reduce the 
“echo-factor” and increase the aesthetic qual­
ity of the rooms. Also, the Drama Department 
offices have been divided up to provide more 
organized space. Over the summer, the offices 
were moved to trailers next to the Studio 
fHieater. Many students and faculty complain 
that the trailers are ugly and detract from the 
Fine Arts building and the outdoor theater 
grounds—where many students like to study, 
rehearse, or just relax.
Bureau of Mines- This is where some of the 
most extensive work has occurred. The re­
cently acquired complex of buildings will 
provide both offices and classrooms. In addi­
tion to the internal work, the complex’s exte­
nor is getting a face-lift.
Aside from the classes and offices, some of 
the most requested and long awaited renova­
tions were made to the dorms, fraternities, and 
sororities.
Hamerschlag House- Much to the relief of 
the returning residents of Hamerschlag, the 
renovation and repair work promised by the 
bousing department last year was delivered. 
The bathrooms and halls have been repainted 
and new carpeting has been installed through­
out the dorm. New hall lighting fixtures were 
installed in most areas except the lounge. New 
beds and desks have also been added, but new 
room chairs are still expected. Residents claim 
that the only thing they need now is for the pool 
table to be re-felted.
Doherty Apts.- Much like the work done to 
Hamerschlag, Doherty also received a paint 
job, new wallpaper and new furniture.
Fraternities- The frats received some repair 
work to their water pipes and electrical sys­
tems.
Sororities and Margaret Morrison Apts.-
With the exception of getting their desks 
fixed so that the supports will not break so 
easily, no major work was done.
Student Senate 
Starts Meeting
By KARL BARNHARTTartan News Editor
Student Senate held its first regular meeting 
last Tuesday, August 25. Twelve of 24 Sena­
tors attended.
In his opening address, Student Government 
President, Andy Robitshek, called for nomi­
nations for the Disciplinary and Board of 
Trustees Committees, gave a positive status 
report on the campaign to save Tech House, 
and finished by stating his goals as President. 
Foremost was his commitment to strengthen 
the Student Advisory Committee (SAC).
After Robitshek’s address, Senate heard 
both executive and committee reports. Each 
committee chair gave a brief summary of their 
committees’ responsibilities and status. 
Tamal Mukherjee, Chairman of the Funding 
and Recognition Committee, moved to give 
both the Kiltie Band and the Thistle each $200 
in emergency funding. Mukherjee’s argu­
ments were the Music Department had 
dropped the Kiltie Band, and the Thistle had 
named a new editor. Both organizations 
needed the money for start-up expenses. The 
motions were both passed unanimously.Student Senate meets every Tuesday at 7:00 in the Wherret Room.
gCOME OUT
d 
cs
;
i
I
fi!
.211
2
<Z3lQÂ
¦difilcdi
to ourintroductorymeeting:
on
X
2§
r
wtn
GO
*<m
a
03a
Sunday, September 6,7:30 p.m.Skibo 45
IN THE BASEMENT OF SKIBO
Carnegie SMellon| Gay and Lesbian AllianceGALA
| '¦s i|i R c/o Skibo Information Desk 
pf . §|!! Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
Computer mail: GA0Y@TB
Meal Contracts Reset Wednesday
By KARL BARNHARTTartan News Editor
Meal contracts will no longer be reset 
Monday; instead, due in part to a University 
Dining Service accounting change, weekly 
meal allocations will begin Wednesday 
morning.
According to Lynda Stevens, Associate 
Director of Dining Service, the change was 
made for two reasons. One is Marriott, 
from whom CMU contracts UDS, changed 
their accounting week to start Wednesday 
instead of Monday, and the other is to help 
during closedowns over Thanksgiving and
Christmas. Under the old system, UDS 
prorated the contracts whenever there was 
a break; the new policy is designed to 
eliminate this by resetting the meal plans 
simultaneously with the start of breaks.
However, Student Senate voiced concern 
at Tuesday ’s meeting that the change could 
be a greater inconvenience to students who 
run out of meals. Senate’s.objection was it 
would be harder to get off-campus food 
when classes were in session. Stevens said 
she didn’t foresee this as a problem, but if 
it did become one, the old policy would be 
reinstated.
Boston Firm Wins Design Comp
Continued from page 3
Ritchey, a CMU alumnus retired from Deeter 
Ritchey Sippel; Omer Akin, head of the De­
partment of Architecture; John P. Crecine, 
Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs; 
William F. Elliott, Vice President for Enroll-
ment; Frederick A. Rogers, Vice President for 
Business Affairs; John L. Anderson, head of 
the Department of Chemical Engineering; 
Gregor Berkowitz, a student in the Mechanical 
Engineering Department; and Chris Haupt, a 
student in the Architecture Department.
HOWARD JOHNSON
University Center Hotel
3401 Boulevard of the Allies 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213 
683-6100
IN PENNSYLVANIA 
CALL 800-441-3979
OUTSIDE OF PENNSYLVANIA 
CALL 800-245-4444
“The Best Place In Town For A Wing Out!”
Mike Kalina Pgh. Press
Over a Dozen Sauces From Mild-Mild to Death Sauce!!
Open 3.30 p.m. T-H till 10 
F-S till 11 
Open Sundays • till 8
PALL-421-WING
Our Ribs?
“Best in the City” ( ^ f
—Mariam's Coast to-Coast Dining Gjida
RIB HOUSE
Ribs • Chicken • Barbecue Specialties^? .
2125 
MURRAY 
AVENUE 
(SQ. HILL)
rvr/J \ \
O

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial_____________
College Is More Than Academics
“Welcome to Carnegie Mellon!”
That seems to be the standard greeting for which all of our readers were 
probably waiting. Not “Welcome back,” though. That’s because this editorial is 
directed towards freshmen.
Not that the comments offered below do not apply to the campus in general; 
indeed, they do. It is our opinion, though, the freshmen need this advice more.
The fact is that many people go through their academic life at Carnegie Mellon 
expecting it to be business as usual—an orderly progression of events with neat 
ends. They expect they’ll concentrate on classes and academics, and maybe 
they’ll get involved with a student organization or Greek house.
What they don’t realize, and what the administration has been lax in advertis­
ing, is that college is not just for classes. College is the transition point for “young 
adults.”
Don’t misunderstand — academic performance is certainly important. Evi­
dence of this is the fact that attendence at Carnegie Mellon depends on it. And 
of course the classes taken will have a large effect on job offers. But it is also 
important to learn how to relate to other people. The clubs here make that 
possible. Companies look for that on resumes, too.
Last week at the Activities Fair, Skibo was filled with people either trying to 
recruit for clubs or join them. A disappointingly small percent of potential 
members will, in fact, join an organization. Disappointingly small because 
without these clubs as a common meeting ground, many students will not meet 
other students outside their majors.
The clubs and Greek system are a major part of life here. The inherent rivalries 
of the Greek system and Spring Carnival help to mold people into groups that 
learn to work together in a no-loss environment. Cooperation and experience- 
sharing are learned in a situation where livelihood does not depend on the 
outcome.
And even though there is very little publicity (with the exception of the 
Activities Fair), there are a large number of organizations looking for new 
members. Keep in mind that a club is based on a group of people who share a 
common interest. This means that by joining a club you will be furthering the 
enjoyment and education in a subject that already holds your attention.
And while it is important to introduce students to new experiences and further 
ones in which they are already interested, it is equally important for the 
administration to let them know that it is OK. A few of the many ways in which
y^Mt= p& i.v.c.F./
CöMfVrci? c-Lufc
-Ho W teour \
THIS v<=GerARMrf\ /I..* 
aw.* 
HOCLTlCuunxeJ 
CJiXJfb AMP C-I.A/
¦Û,
the administration can make it easier for students to spend some time building 
their lives, rather than studying for them, are shortening the academic semesters, 
decreasing the number of required courses per semester, and putting a little less 
emphasis on grades and ranking and a little more emphasis on learning.
There is less to be learned from an A average than there is from a B average and 
active involvement with two or three organizations that share your own 
interests.
Senate President
Welcome back to another year of no sleep, 
no-doze, and no parking. I hope you didn't 
bring your car to school because there is now 
even less parking than there ever was. If you 
didn’t already know, you can 
not park on Devon or Beeler 
unless you live there and get a 
residential permit. We are 
working on the parking prob­
lem but no solutions are in sight.
Other events that occurred over the summer 
include a board of trustees meeting and the 
unveiling of the new student union, which can 
be seen in Skibo. Plans for the new dorm and 
football field are changing every day, so do not 
expect any designs that you see to be final 
ones. Hamburg Hall was dedicated this sum­
mer (the old Bureau of Mines). It is still not 
completed, so all the departments that were to 
move in haven’t. This is the reason there are 
even more trailers on campus this year.
is putting together an all- 
teach mdfith; look for 
of the Diversions 
get out and attend
____Jhough the task force on the quality of
life has not completed its report, two ideas that 
I have seen look very promising. The first is 
the idea of having a winter quarter in January.
A student would take one course which would 
meet every day of the month. The courses 
offered during the winter session would not be 
part of any one major, but would rather be 
courses about ethics, controversial issues, and 
other topics. It would be mandatory for two out 
of your four (or more) years here; you would 
then have a one-month winter break. The other 
two years you would have a two-month winter 
break. This would let faculty (those not teach­
ing during the winter session) have two 
to concentrate on their research, so
Notes Campus Improvements, Future Plans
One of my main goals this year is to get working with Student Senate, faculty senate, 
SAC’s (student advisory councils) in every President Cyert, and others on this issue. Other 
department up and running. Many depart- plans I have for this year include the continu­
ation of the tailgate parties for football games.
I am always open to more suggestions, and 
very willing to sit down and talk to anyone. I 
will be having office hours in the Studeff 
Senate office, Skibo 59, next week. If you have 
any problems here on campus or any great 
ideas stop by there and talk to a student senator 
or leave a message for me.
Good luck during the year.
they would spend more time with their under­
grad classes during the year. It would also 
make our regular semesters of comparable 
length to other schools.
The other idea that looked promising was 
that of putting monitors around campus in key 
locations (like airport terminal displays). 
These would announce events occurring on 
campus. This seems to me to be a relatively 
cheap way to stay informed of these events.
One class of upcoming events that I recom­
mend you see are the plays that are performed 
in Kresge Theatre. They are put on by the 
drama department about five times per year. 
Student tickets are very cheap (around $5.00 a 
show) and the shows are excellent. Stop by the 
box office in CFA for more information.
ments have them, but there are many that 
don’t. I believe that these councils will help to 
get a good advisory program going in their 
departments. I would also like to see them 
sponsor or help sponsor departmental happy 
hours and other events to get the faculty more 
involved with the students. This (lack of in­
volvement with students) has been a major 
complaint of many students; it is something 
that is both the students’ and faculty’s fault, 
but it can easily be corrected. Students need to 
make more contact with their professors, and 
faculty need to realize that students want to 
meet them and leam more from them. I will be
Andrew Robitshek 
President, Student Senate
Task Force member reminds campus...
Quality of Life Integral For Major Changes
By ERIC WITTLE
The issue of “Quality of Life” at CMU has been a major focus of 
attention for the Administration over the past year. Although the issue 
has received a great deal of attention within the CMU community, 
many of the more fundamental areas involved in the Quality of Life 
have been overlooked.
Most of the attention the Quality of Life issue has 
received has been directly or indirectly related to the 
proposed University Center. There is no question in 
most people’s minds that the University Center would 
be a major step towards improving the Quality of Life here at CMU. 
However, improved facilities are only part of the issue. Equally impor­
tant are the levels of institutional committment, student committment, 
and communication. Since communication is the least controversial of 
these topics, it will be discussed first.
An improved Quality of Life at CMU must involve an increase in 
communication between faculty, students, and administration. At 
present, too many decisions which directly affect Quality of Life are 
made without adequate prior discussion. Decisions such as the nature 
and location of the new dorm are often made without adequate input
from the CMU community. The entire Tech House issue which was 
discussed at the end of last semester could have been avoided by includ­
ing a member of the Tech House organization in the discussion of ne#- 
dorm sites, and this is only one small example of the lack of commu­
nication which occurs routinely within the CMU community.
At first glance, it might seem that the Administration is "solely respon­
sible for this lack of communication. This is not the case. Both students 
and faculty need to become more involved in and aware of the 
University’s decision making processes. There are many administra­
tors who enjoy talking to students, and are willing to accept student 
input. However, there are also administrators whose priorities do not 
include involving students or faculty in administrative decisions. %>
If we are ever to have a significant improvement in Quality of Life 
here at CMU, we must all make an effort to be more aware of impor­
tant issues and/or decisions affecting the University community. 
Without open, intelligent communication, there will always be groups 
who are not satisfied with their part in the community.Eric Witt le is a third year Resident Assistant, President of the Student Dormitory Council, and a member of the University Task Force on Quality of Life.

---------------------------------------------------

September 1,1987—The Tartan—Page 7
From the President’s Desk...Cyert Addresses Freshman Class, Discusses Master Plan
I want to welcome all of you back to campus. 
The campus is a lot quieter when you are gone, 
but it does not look as good as when you are 
here. It was made for students, and I always 
have a good feeling to see you back for the start 
of another productive year.
We have spent the last week in orientation 
sessions for the freshmen and the new faculty. 
Some of the freshmen were at camp and had a 
good time while getting to know each other 
and something about Carnegie Mellon. I wel­
comed them on their first afternoon in camp, 
and everyone seemed to be having a good 
time. On Thursday, the rest of the freshmen 
came in, and the others came back to campus 
from camp. On Thursday evening Professor 
William O. Williams, acting head of our 
Department of Mathematics, gave an excel­
lent keynote speech to the freshmen. Friday 
afternoon we had a reception for the freshmen, 
and I was pleased to see a fair number of upper­
classmen there as well. I want to congratulate
Inquiring Minds returns...Iran-Contra Hearings: More Than Meets The Eye
i
t
By THE INQUIRING STAFF
Like many folks this summer, we sat glued in 
front of the tube watching the Iran-Contra 
Hearings. After the hours and hours of testi­
mony, some memorable quotes still stick in 
our heads. Some seemed just 
too unbelievable to be true. So 
with our inquisitive minds 
piqued, we contacted several 
of the key players in the hear­
ings and found out what they really meant to 
say. Then after hours of poring through the tes­
timony at Atlantic Books in Oakland, we de­
termined the actual truth. What follows is the 
actual story of the Iran-Contra Hearings.
•Richard Secord: What he said, “I was under 
the impression that President Reagan knew;” 
what he meant to say, “It’s not my fault;” what 
he really thought, “I should’ve known better 
than to think Ronnie knew anything.”
When asked about the missing $10 million, 
Secord said that it had been placed in the 
wrong Swiss bank account. He meant to say, 
“We thought that was the Christmas Club 
account;” but he really thought, “Who can 
read Regan’s handwriting?”
•In the final days of the hearings, Attorney 
General Meese was congratulated for his fine 
job in the investigation. The commision 
meant to say, “The only time we looked worse 
was during that porno commission;” what they 
really thought, “At least he’s not Archibald 
Cox.”
•Fawn Hall: “A secretary couldn’t ask for a 
better boss;” she meant to say, “You wouldn’t 
believe how much the job paid!” what she 
really thought, “He never once left me alone
with Richard Secord!”
•Daniel Inouye: “We’d like to thank you, Ms. 
Hall, for appearing;” he meant to say, “You’ve 
made it worth getting up the last 2 weeks;” he 
was thinking, “Rep. Luger has volunteered to 
frisk you for missing documents.”
•John Poindexter: “The buck stopped here 
with me;” he actually meant, “I can’t think of 
a way to blame this on Bill Casey;” what he 
really thought, “They promised me hair.” 
•Elliot Abrams: “I was not aware of a run­
way;” he meant to say, “They thought I’d tell 
Shultz;” he really was thinking, “I saw it 
everyday, but the CIA kept telling me it was a 
really short road.” .
•Oliver North: “I bring you the good, the bad, 
and the ugly;” he meant to say, “You’re in for 
one hell of a story;” but he was really thinking 
“I hope you guys brought an extra pair of 
pants.”
•One of the most memorable times came late 
in the hearings (USA Today liked it so much, 
it made front page) when North revealed 
“Ronnie loved my ass.” Ollie meant to say, 
“That’s how one man could run foreign policy 
for three years.” He was thinking, “I can’t help 
it if Nancy doesn’t perform like I do.” 
•Ronald Reagan: “There is no smoking gun; ’ 
he meant “We start bombing in 5 minutes;” 
and he thought “I love Ollie’s ass.”
Reagan: “I did not know;” he meant to say, “I 
did not know;” he was thinking, “No one told 
me I should know;” and the truth, well, some 
of us knew that seven years ago.
The Inquiring Staff is S. Levine, R. Wilson, and C. Williams.
Conservative Coiner:Bork Qualified For Supreme Court
By AARON SOLOMON AND 
THOMAS HEIM
“Robert Bork’s America is a land in which 
women would be forced into back-alley abor­
tions Senator Edward Kennedy is quoted 
by the New York Times as saying this July.
This hyperbole is a graphic 
example of the rhetoric pre­
ferred by many liberals in re­
sponse to President Reagan’s 
nomination of Federal Judge 
Robert Boric to be a Supreme Court Justice.
The controversy over the nomination of 
Robert Bork to the Supreme Court ignores his 
qualifications for the position, and instead 
focuses on his ideological alignment, primar­
ily his practice of judicial restraint, and its 
ramifications on the constitutional guarantee 
to have an abortion. The fear that his appoint­
ment will result in the immediate prohibition 
of abortion across America is completely 
unjustified. Should Judge Bork decide to re­
verse the famous court decision Roe vs. Wade, 
which guarantees a woman the right to an 
abortion, he would need four other judges to 
vote with him whose knowledge of justice 
dictates that it was indeed a bad constitutional 
decision. This would result in one thing - 
rather than a federal law created by unelected
Andy Phillips and the counselors at camp and 
on the campus for their excellent job of arrang­
ing the orientation and of carrying it out.
Associate Vice President for Human Re­
source Development Norman Johnson, along 
with Professor Ted Fenton, ran the orientation 
for the new faculty. Everyone was pleased 
with it. We placed a great deal of emphasis on 
the importance of teaching at Carnegie Mel­
lon. In a university that is as strong in research 
as this one, it is always important to emphasize 
that teaching is an equally essential part of the 
activities of a faculty member. We have some 
excellent faculty members this year as well as 
a fine freshman class. Unless there are some 
unforeseen problems, we should have an out­
standing year.
In June we passed the half-way mark on our 
$200 million development campaign and have 
made progress on the second $100 million 
since then. So far, we have raised funds to 
establish eleven new professorships and have 
the promise of three more. We have also added 
considerably to the number of endowed schol­
arships for undergraduates. I continue to be 
pleased with the response to our drive that we 
are getting from corporations, foundations, 
alumni, and friends of the university.
We have a number of building projects in 
progress on the campus. Hamburg Hall is 
being renovated, and we have good prospects 
for purchasing the Navy building between the 
UCC and Hamburg Hall. The Software Engi­
neering Institute is just about completed, and 
employees will be moving in there in early 
September. We have begun to improve the 
women’s locker room in the gymnasium. I 
have not been happy with the degree of safety 
there and had hoped that we would have had 
the project completed over the summer, but we 
were not able to do so. Work will continue 
during the school year.
Those of you in Pittsburgh have probably 
read that Dr. John P. Crecine, senior vice 
president for academic affairs, has been 
named president of Georgia Tech in Atlanta. 
Dr. Crecine will be leaving to take over on a 
full-time basis at Georgia Tech on November 
1. He will be on a part-time basis with each 
school until then. We are sorry to lose him 
because of his many contributions to the uni­
versity, but we are happy for the opportunity 
presented him. I am confident that he will do 
an outstanding job at Georgia Tech and that the 
school is fortunate to get him. He is the fifth 
person to leave the administration since I have 
been president to become president at another 
university. As someone has said, Carnegie
Mellon has replaced the Commonwealth of 
Virginia as the mother of presidents.
I know that a number of you are interested in 
the University Center, and I thought I might 
use this article to bring you up-to-date. Last 
spring, a group of six outstanding architectural 
firms submitted their plans for the design of 
the new center. We had a panel of experts, 
chaired by the dean of architecture at Yale, to 
judge the plans, which we also had reviewed 
by some advisory groups that included our 
own faculty, staff, and students. Dennis, Clark 
and Associates of Boston submitted the win­
ning plans. The three-dimensional plan of 
their submission is in Skibo. They are cur­
rently revising these plans to meet our finan­
cial constraints,, and we will be negotiating 
with the architects to finalize these plans dur­
ing the fall and winter.
While the architects are working on the de­
sign, we are going to be talking with students 
and faculty during the fall about their needs in 
this facility. Students have been active so far in 
the process and will play additional roles as we 
develop the detailed plans. We would like very 
much to have other students who wish to be­
come involved, call Dean Walter’s office and 
leave their names. We are actively seeking the 
continued involvement of students.
We are hoping to start the building program 
in the spring of 1988. We will begin by turning 
around the athletic field, constructing a dormi­
tory, and building additional parking. Unfor­
tunately, there are a lot of problems, particu­
larly in finding intramural fields since this 
project is likely to take a couple of years. Our 
expectations are that it will take three to five 
years to complete the university center. We are 
raising money for that center now, and we are 
optimistic that we can do it. The cost of the 
center is projected at $30 million, not includ­
ing the turning around of the athletic fields, the 
new dormitory, or the additional parking. 
There will be continuing discussions of the 
center during the course of the year so that all 
of you will have a chance to be informed and 
to give us your input.
I wish all of you the best of luck for the 
coming year and hope that you learn a lot and 
enjoy yourselves. I look forward to seeing you 
on the campus, in the dorms, in the fraternity 
houses, and in Skibo.
Richard M. Cyert
President, Carnegie Mellon University
officials dictating to the 50 states what their 
people may do legally, it would then be up to 
the .voters in each state to determine if abortion 
should be legal, or illegal. Thus legislation 
would revert back to control by the voters, and 
their elected representatives.
Robert Bork, former professor at Yale Law 
School, former U.S. Solicitor General, and 
judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals, prior to his 
nomination, was lauded by both conservatives 
and liberals alike. For example, his primary 
opponent now, Democratic hopeful, Senator 
Joseph Biden, said “Say the administration 
sends up Bork...I’d have to vote for him, and if 
the (special Interest) groups tear me apart, 
that’s the medicine I’ll have to take.” Now, as 
chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, 
in charge of confirming the nominee, Biden 
has shown his true colors as a political oppor­
tunist by reversing his stance, claiming that it 
is not the qualifications of the individual that 
maners, but the ideological balance of the 
court, which could sway with Bork’s confir­
mation.
Judge Robert Bork should be confirmed to 
the Supreme Court, and we feel that nominees 
to the Supreme Court that are qualified should 
be evaluated on their professional merits, 
without political mudslinging.
The Tartan
David N. Levy
Russ Seligman
Editor-in-Chief
Mark Benish
Managing EditorBusiness Manager
Karl BarnhartMary MurphyBruce Kasrel
News EditorFeatures EditorDiversions Editor
Stewart LevineGlenn SchusterAndrew Gillespie
Sports EditorPhoto Darkroom EditorPhoto Assignment Editor
Nancy St. LouisDrue MillerCeleste Clark
Copy ManagerProduction ManagerAd Manager
Lisa D. McAnanvAlbrecht T. PowellOlve Peersen
Contributing EditorContributing EditorContributing Editor
John FriedmannNeil Greenblum
Contributing EditorContributing Editor
The Tartan is a student newspaper of Carnegie Melton 
University. It is a weekly newspaper, published each Tues­
day during the fall and spring semesters by students at no 
cost to members of the university community. It is printed by 
Typecraft Press, Inc. Subscriptions are available for $15 per 
semester, $25 per year The Editorial appeanng at the 
begmning of the opinion section is the official opinion of The 
Tartan editorial board Columns are the opinions of individ­
ual authors who are not necessarily on The Tartan editorial 
board or staff Letters to the Editor are opinions of individual 
authors who are usually members of the University commu­
nity.
A letter intended for publication must be signed and include 
the writer's address and phone number for verification 
Names will be withheld upon request The Tartan reserves 
the right to condense or reject any letter or column Copyright 
1987 by The Tartan The editorial board reserves the right 
to withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for 
publication.
Office: Skibo 50-52 (412)268-2111
Mailing address; The Tartan / Box 17 / Carnegie Mellon
University / Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Funded in part by the Activities Fee AH rights reserved
Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107

---------------------------------------------------

WE
ALWAYS
NEED
LEADERS
The Air Force is looking for pilots. navigators. . . 
missileers. . engineers. . managers. . and more. 
Our positions are important. You can get one through Air 
Force ROTC.
As an Air Force ROTC cadet, you’ll be trained in 
leadership and management practices. You may also 
apply for our scholarship program that helps pay college 
expenses plus $100 per academic month, tax free.
After graduation, you’ll have all the prestige and 
responsibility of an Air Force officer You’ll discover a 
new world where you’ll be challenged to excell. . and 
rewarded for your success. Let us give you the details 
today.
Contact: Captain Wayne W. Carter
Hamburg Hall, Building A 
(Ground Floor)
268-8747ASK FORCE
NRadRrship ExcRllRncR Starts HRrR
¡H'4 piece Studic|Set-up
*179« Price $319.95
Includes 29 x 42 drawing table • 34 swing aroi lamp • Tablotte • 5 star base padded chair
-------We carry the largest supply of---------
ARTIST / DESIGNER / ENGINEERING 
and ARCHITECTURAL Materials 
OFFICE PRODUCTS plus 
CUSTOM FRAMING and POSTERS
819 Penn Ave.. Downtown. Pgh. 355-0444 
x 411 S. Craig St.. Oakland 683-4444 
Open to 6:30 • Sundays 1 to 5
(Tafe a breal{... 
Come to ^ace s across from the Museum 
9-iomemacCe ice cream, cones, calces, 
Srozvnies, satads, and sandwiches. 
(The best ice cream in toiun!!
Pho t cur esu yfurb 
sanduncft coupon
uliRfua tn.t.SE
i I--------------------------------1 I-------------------------------
MPho t cur esu yfuub I I TPho t cur esu yfuub
II any conc coupon
I 
I
cappuccino 
coupon 
uliRfua tn.t.SEuliRfua tn.t.SE
I____:______________I I——— _____I I____:_______________I
P/tene 363
8: 4530 PEPPERONI PIZZA $4.”ta
Spring Super ¦ Special - ZT/rZlz*.
Student User Consultant
Academic Services has openings for 55 part-time 
PC Consultants and may have openings for one or 
two part-time User Consultants for the fall term. 
Application forms are available at the UCON office 
in the UCC PC cluster.
User Consultants staff the UCC Consulting office 
and also work in other public clusters. They repre­
sent Academic Computing to the users of the 
public facilities and assist them in the use of the 
available hardware and software by responding to 
questions about programming applications soft­
ware packages and system operations. Consult­
ants must be able to deal diplomatically with 
students, faculty and staff users whose interests 
and levels of computing skill may vary widely.
Applicants must be responsible and have com­
pleted 15-111 or have the equivalent knowledge in 
Pascal or Fortran. A working knowledge of EMACS, 
Scribe, Scribble, the Andrew environment, the IBM 
PC and Macintosh are also required. Experience 
with the VMS operating system is recommended.
User Consultants are given accounts on the Com­
puting Center’s Dec 20*s and on Vax B. All student 
consultants will receive Andrew I.D.’s. User con­
sultants are expected to continue to upgrade their 
computing skills.

---------------------------------------------------

¦....——y
jjjjjwrri'ii• ì lìiìt^ i :| riïrïr'-'- •'ïiïiïi^'^iii '-ff v '
Within 30 minutes
Our drivers carry less than $20.00. Limited delivery 
area.01983 Domino’s Pizza, Inc.
$2.00 off any 16” 
1-item or more pizza 
One coupon per pizza
Expires: 9/27/87
Fast, Free DelivenT
315 North Craig St. 
Phone:681-1700

---------------------------------------------------

All booked tip?
There’s always a price to pay for a degree. Or for a job well done. Long study 
sessions. All nighters. Pushing your mind to its limit. But there’s one reward 
that doesn’t have to cost a lot. The Music Cure.
For as little as $4.50 a concert you can discover the remedy for the 
common semester—the 1987-88 Pittsburgh Symphony Season.
Students have a choice of subscription packages, each providing 
a healthy dose of the internationally acclaimed Pittsburgh Symphony 
and its world-famous guest artists and conductors.
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra. Relaxing. Invigorating.
Soothing. Just what the doctor ordered for the overworked student. P/y 
Join us for the 1987-88 Season.
Take a Music Break,
MUSICCONDUCTOR/SOLOIST
FRIDAYSSAT.SUN.
12 <AI)12 (A2)12 (Cl)6(B6)
WAGNER, Prelude to The Mastersingers ZDENEK MACAL, conductor 
BORODIN, Symphony No. 2
RAVEL, Suites Nos. 1 and 2 from Daphnts and Chloe
Sept.
18
Sept.
19
ROBERTO SIERRA, Jubilee Overture 
MENDELSSOHN, Violin Concerto 
BRAHMS, Symphony No. 1
ZDENEK MACAL, conductor 
NADJA SALERNO-SONNENBERG,
violin
Sept.
25
RODION SHCHEDRIN. Mischievous Melodies 
PROKOFIEV, Piano Concerto No. 3 
RACHMANINOV. Symphony No. 3
SIXTEN EHRLING, conductor 
ISRAELA MARGALIT, pianoOct.*
1
Oct.
3
GEMINIANI, Concerto grosso in G minor. 
Opus 3. No. 2
GEORGE ROCHBERG, Symphony No. 6 (world premiere)
STRAVINSKY, The Rite of Spring
LORIN MAAZEL, conductor
Oct.
16
WEBER. Overture to Euryanthe 
NIELSEN, Flute Concerto 
BRUCKNER, Symphony No. 3
LORIN MAAZEL, conductor 
JAMES GALWAY, fluteOct
23
Oct.
24
SCHUMANN, Piano Concerto 
MAHLER, Symphony No. 4
LORIN MAAZEL, conductor 
BRUNO LEONARDO GELBER, piano 
WILHELMENIA FERNANDEZ, soprano
Oct.
30
MOZART, Overture to The Impresario 
BIZET, Symphony in C
WILLIAM SCHUMAN, On Freedom s Ground
LORIN MAAZEL, conductor 
PETER LIGHTFOOT, baritone 
MENDELSSOHN CHOIR, 
Robert Page, director
Nov.
6
Nov.
7
Nov.
8
MUSSORGSKY, from Khovanshchina 
MOZART, Violin Concerto No. 3 in G major 
TCHAIKOVSKY Manfred Symphony
YURI TEMIRKANOV, conductor 
ELMAR OLIVEIRA, violinNov.
20
Nov.
22
BRAHMS, Piano Concerto No. 1 
STRAVINSKY, The Fairy’s Kiss Divertimento 
RAVEL, Bolero
RAFAEL FRUEHBECK de BURGOS, 
conductor
ANDRAS SCHIFF, piano
Nov.
27
Nov.
28
DAHL. Hymn
HAYDN. Cello Concerto in C 
BEETHOVEN, Symphony No. 6 (Pastoral)
MICHAEL TILSON THOMAS, conductor 
MATT HAIMOVITZ, celloDec.
11
Dec.
12
Dec.
13
MAHLER. Symphony No. 3MICHAEL TILSON THOMAS, conductor 
JANICE TAYLOR, mezzo-soprano 
WOMEN OF THE MENDELSSOHN CHOIR. 
Robert Page, director 
CHILDREN'S FESTIVAL CHORUS. 
Christine Jordanoff, director
Dec.
18
RAVEL, Vaises nobles et sentimentales 
MOZART, Sinfonia concertante in E-flat major 
for Violin and Viola 
SHOSTAKOVICH. Symphony No. 1
MICHAEL LANKESTER. conductor 
ANI KAVAFIAN, violin 
IDA KAVAFIAN. violaJan.
8
MOZART. Piano Concerto No. 17 in G major 
MAHLER. Symphony No. 1
ANDREW DAVIS, conductor 
MALCOLM FRAGER. piano
Jan.
15
Jan.
16
MOZART, Overture to The Abduction from the Seraglio 
JOAQUIN RODRIGO, Fantasia para un gentilhombrt 
BAX, The Garden of Fand 
PROKOFIEV, Suite from Cinderella
ANDREW DAVIS, conductor 
CHRISTOPHER PARKENING, guitarJan.
22
SCHUBERT. Symphony No. 3 
STRAUSS, Four Last Songs 
RACHMANINOV. Symphonic Dances
CHARLES DUTOIT, conductor 
JESSYE NORMAN, sopranoFeb.
12
BERLIOZ, Overture to Beatrice and Benedict 
BEETHOVEN. Piano Concerto No. 2 
SHOSTAKOVICH. Symphony No. 10
CHARLES DUTOIT. conductor 
ANDRE WATTS, pianoFeb.
19
Feb.
20
Feb.
21
STRAUSS. Don Juan 
SCHUMANN, Symphony No 1 
MUSSORGSKY/RAVEL, Pictures at an Exhibition
CHARLES DUTOIT. conductorFeb.
26
MOZART, Piano Concerto No. 27 
BRUCKNER, Symphony No. 4
CHRISTOPH ESCHENBACH. conductor 
and piano
Mar.
11
Mar.
13
MAHLER, Symphony No 2 (Resurrection)ZDENEK MACAL. conductor 
BARBARA PEARSON, soprano 
MIMI LERNER, mezzo soprano 
MENDELSSOHN CHOIR. 
Robert Page, director
Mar.
25
Mar.
26
MOZART. Piano Concerto No. 21 in C major 
SHOSTAKOVICH. Symphony No 4
GENNADY ROZHDESTVENSKY, 
conductor
VIKTORIA POSTNIKOVA. piano
April
8
April
9V
DVORAK. Symphony No 8 
JANACEK. Glagolitic Mass
MICHAEL TILSON THOMAS, conductor 
UNDA KELM, soprano, MYRNA PARIS, alto 
JON FREDERIC WEST, tenor 
JOHN OSTENDORF, baritone;
DAVID HART, organ 
MENDELSSOHNCHOtR,
Robert Pace, director
CAGE. The Seasons 
DVORAK. Cello Concerto 
MOZART, Symphony No. 41 (Jupiter)
DENNIS RUSSELL DAVIES, conductor 
ANNE MARTINDALE WILLIAMS, celloMay
13
May
14
CHINARY UNG. Inner Voters 
SHOSTAKOVICH. Piano Concerto No. 2 
BRAHMS, Symphony No 2
DENNIS RUSSELL DAVIES, conductor 
JULIANA MARKOVA, pianoMay
20
BEETHOVEN. Violin Concerto 
PROKOFIEV, Suite from Romeo and Juket
MYUNG-WHUN CHUNG, conductor 
YOUNG-UCK KIM. violinMay
27
May
28
STUDENT SUBSCRIPTION CHOICES
Sundays—6 concerts (B6)—$30.00
(only $5.00 per performance)
Fridays—12 concerts (Al, A2)— $66.00
(only $5.50 per performance)
Saturdays—12 concerts (C-l)—$66.00
(only $5.50 per performance)
FRIDAYS—24 CONCERTS-$108.00
The Entire Season (Series Al & A2 combined) 
At Only $4.50 Per Performance.
CALL 392-4821 TO ORDER,
or simply fill out and mail the attached order form.
1987-88 Student 
RavineDomDts Subscription Series
NAME (PLEASE PRINT)
ADDRESS (AFTER SEPT. 15)
CITYSTATEZIP
CURRENT PHONE NUMBERSTUDENT I D. NUMBER
NAME OF SCHOOL
Series
No. of 
Scats
Price per 
SubscriptionTotalMethod of Payment
? Check payable to:
The Pittsburgh Symphony Society 
Heinz Hall for the Performing Arts 
600 Penn Avenue
Pittsburgh, PA 15222
? VISA ? MasterCard ? American Express
ACCT. NOEXP. DATE
PLEASE PRINT EXACT NAME THE CARD IS IN
SIGNATURE
Student Series Tidccts are not exchangeable or returnable.
Mail To: Student Series 
Heinz Hall 
600 Penn Avenue 
Pittsburgh. PA 15222

---------------------------------------------------

Features
fo What’s this school coming to...
50/50 T-shirts and Janet Jackson at Registration?
Seeing friends and acquaintances from years 
gone by is an intrinsic part of fall. To hail 
familiar faces across the cut with the native 
chant, “How was your summer?” is not only 
interesting it is also exciting. The response is 
equally stimulating. While most people reply 
“Great” or ‘Terrible,” there are a few jokers 
who break with tradition and yell such things 
as, “Really fun” or “Awesome, dude.” It’s 
important to remember that many people who 
inquire eagerly after the success of the vaca­
tions of others might never have been seen 
before by their victims. How many times have
you been approached in some local hot spot 
(e.g. Gray Matter) by a complete stranger who 
races by and hails you with “Hi-how-was-the- 
summer?” and then in order to focus on your 
reply, turns his head back over his shoulder 
and nods, as he zips to the door? Don’t be 
insulted by his lack of interest in the actual 
activities of your summer, since he’s probably 
never seen you before either.
Back-to-school clothes are another element 
of life that comprises the autumnal season. 
Some students have gone so far as to enthusi­
astically break out the turtlenecks and pull­
overs, and then are forced to wear them with 
shorts, in order to prevent heat stroke—the 
layered look in August is often uncomfortable. 
Many simply wear shorts. This pure shorts 
look is sported predominently by the men at
Camegie-Mellon. While it is occasionally 
appropriate to dress for class as if you’re 
stopping by the shower on the way over, gen­
erally a shirtless torso simply displays the 
exorbitant number of beers consumed over the 
past few years.
Another popular look for both men and 
women this fall is a certain “Camegie-Mellon” 
T-shirt This favorite is the freshman gift idea 
from either 1986,85, or 84. With the price of 
one semester’s tuition, the student, by present­
ing his/her receipt from the bursar received 
one 50/50 t-shirt with the old alma mater em­
blazoned on the front. Many have worn this 
garment since their first day , every day, con- 
sectutively, and it’s a pleasure to see the same 
face, the same shirt, again this year.
Perhaps the thing most difficult to adjust to in 
coming back to schoool is the activity of stand­
ing in line. The lines of summer—waiting for 
the diving board at the pool, the elevator at the 
office, the paycheck at the post box—these are 
fond memories. The lines of fall are at the 
registrar’s, the cashier’s, and the Kiltie. This 
semester seems to have brought a new wave of 
attention from the administration in regard to 
the popular pastime of standing in one place 
with countless pink, yellow, goldenrod and 
white slips gripped firmly in hand. Not only is 
registration in the lovely and elegant ballroom, 
with security guards accentuating the muted 
colors of the walls and computers, there is also 
a huge tent outside where the student can 
receive an add/drop slip while enjoying the 
atmosphere of a wedding reception.
Of course the coup de grace is the Popular 
Music Video addition to the registrar’s waiting 
room. For those who missed the fulfilling
CMU appoints five new 
department heads
By MARY E. MURPHY Tartan Features Editor 
What’s new on campus besides the counters 
at the Tartan? Four new department heads and 
a new chief of Security, that’s what’s new. 
Carnegie Mellon’s Biological Sciences, De­
sign, Drama and Music departments have all 
appointed new heads this year, all of whom are 
not strangers to CMU.
As head designate to the Biological Sciences 
department during the 1986-87 academic 
year, Dr. Susan Armstrong Henry initiated an 
undergraduate research program by helping 
the department to win a grant called Research 
Experience for Undergraduates from the Na­
tional Science Foundation (NSF). This grant 
helped to support the research of ten under­
graduate students this summer.
Dr. Henry, now head of the Biological Sci­
ences department, is a molecular geneticist 
and former director of the Sue Golding Gradu­
ate Division of Yeshiva University’s Albert 
Einstein School of Medicine. She received her 
bachelor’s degree in zoology from tbe Univer­
sity of Maryland, and her doctor’s degree in 
genetics from the University of California at 
Berkeley. She has won numerous notable 
honors and prizes and has served on several 
biological studies programs and publications.
Dr. Henry’s primary research has been in the 
genetics and development of yeast membrane 
mutants and genetic control of cell growth and 
development 
For the department Dr. Henry plans to de­
velop an interdisciplinary effort with CMU’s 
Chemistry department to do research on pro­
tein function. She also hopes to build the 
University’s expertise in developmental biol­
ogy and to develop an honors program.
On her new position. Dr. Henry commented
experience of waiting an eternity to have an 
add/drop punched while Janet Jackson howls, 
“Nasty, nasty girls,” and contorts vitupera- 
tively on a large screen, you have not really 
partaken in the fruits of registration entertain­
ment
Of course the student at CMU gets more than 
stimulating greetings, the latest in fashion and 
the benefits of an entertainment-oriented reg­
istration procedure for their membership fee 
of $13,000. They also get classes. The first 
class of the year, while maybe not the most 
exciting, is undoubtedly the shortest. It is
surprising to see students fall asleep before 
receiving the syllabus—even more mystical 
that some catch 40 winks while their class­
mates each announce their name, major and 
hometown to the group. These dozers don’t 
realize what an expensive nap they’re indulg­
ing in.
This is the first of what is soon to become a 
talked-about Tartan tradition. Everyone, from 
Dick Cyert to Dorothy and Ella, the Kiltie- 
card-punchers, will be gleefully discussing 
the latest trends heralded in SPECTACLES. 
Read it you too will be hip to the campus beat.
that she is “excited to be here,” and is “im­
pressed with the level of committment of the 
students.”
Carroll Gantz, a (1950’s) graduate of the 
College of Fine Arts, has been named head to 
the department of Design. Plucked straight 
out of the design work force, Mr. Gantz is the 
former Director of Design for Household 
Products at Black and Decker.
For this semester, Mr. Gantz has established 
his major task as a thorough analysis and 
restructuring of all-level programs in the de­
partment. Mr. Gantz has also outlined a set of 
strategic goals to be worked on over a five- 
year period: “l)to provide graduates with a 
competitive superior design program; 2)to 
provide a creative and innovative environ­
ment for students and faculty; 3)to achieve 
international pre-eminence in design educa­
tion for CMU; 4)(o provide internship and 
placement for all design students; and 5)to 
achieve effective faculty development and 
departmental performance.”
As was already in progress, Mr. Gantz also 
hopes to achieve a more cohesive environment 
by unifying the department in Margaret Mor­
rison Hall by the fall of 1988. The graphic 
design lab, which Gantz claims is 20% of the 
department, has already moved to Margaret 
Morrison from Baker Hall.
Conun uning her progress in the Drama de­
partment is Elizabeth Orion. Replacing Mel 
Shapiro as Acting Head of the Department last 
year, Ms. Orion was named Head of the De­
partment after Shapiro formally resigned his 
duties last spring 
Ms. Orion will remain head of the depart­
ment for at least two years during which time 
an evaluation of the department’s needs and a
cwdnacd w pap 12
Survey reveals what 
students like in beds
Sleep is serious business for college 
students who want to make good grades.
In a nationwide survey of college 
students, getting a proper night’s sleep 
before an exam was rated second only to 
good study habits as an important factor 
in obtaining high grades.
In order to get that restful night’s sleep, 
students said they preferred to sleep on an 
innerspring mattress and boxspring than 
any other sleeping surface, including wa- 
terbeds.
Research & Forecasts, Inc. of New 
York recently conducted telephone 
interviews of 512 students on college 
campuses from coast-to-coast.
The American Innerspring Manufactur­
ers < AIM), the national trade association 
4if bedding spring manutactuitKjjead- 
quartered in Memphis, Tenn. Contis' 
sioned the survey.
“Making good grades consistency is a 
matter of labor, not luck, for n^o&jbf us 
r anyway,” said Arthur Grehad, ef^uti ve 
director for AIM. “Rest playS a big role 
in how we perform at school and on the 
job. Bven for healthy young people, it’s 
important.”
Sleeping on a firm, yet comfortable, 
innerspring mattress unit also may be 
insurance against a back problem," 
Grehan added.
“Orthopedic surgeons say sleeping on a 
quality innerspring unit—one that isn’t 
old and worn—is important in preventing 
back problems for people of all ages,” 
Grehan said.
In the college survey, students pre­
ferred innerspring mattresses and 
boxsprings to waterbeds by a ratio of 
more than two to one as a choice for a 
first bed purchase.
“Obviously, since our questions raised 
discussion on competitive products, like 
waterbeds, we had to have a research 
firm of impeccable reputation to conduct 
the interviews and report its findings,” 
said Grehan.
In the survey, more than half (60%) of 
the students said they intend fp buy an 
innerspring mattress and boxspring, 
compared to only 28 percetyjvho will 
select a waterbed. A foam mattress met 
with favor by 11 percent af the group, 
and other types of beds **k^fiitons, were 
preferred by two percept; **
Almost half (48%) of interviewed 
said they associated wtRmxags with sev­
eral unfavorable situation« <>r negative 
images. The problems 'With waterbeds, 
they said, included extra money spent on 
chemicals and heating,leaks problems
with landlords. Ten (l0%i|5^rcent of this 
group thought waterbedsjspll had a subcul - 
ture image of “hippies and free love.”
An innerspring mattress and boxspring 
combination was associated by students 
with a healthy and restful night’s sleep 
(61%). The majority of undergraduates 
(93%) thought innerspring bedding was 
good for their back and overall health, as 
well as a good buy for the money and the 
most preferred purchase of well-educated 
parents.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12—The Tartan—September 1,1987
continued from page 11
search for a new head will be undertaken. 
Until then, Ms. Orion is committed to helping 
the drama students move forward in their stud­
ies by providing her own expertise and encour­
aging that of the faculty and guests to the 
department.
Appointed head of the Music Department 
effective July 1, Joel Thome will now provide 
his expertise as an internationally renowned 
composer, conductor and founder of a new 
genre of contemporary global music.
Thome has studied at the Eastman School of 
Music, L’Ecole Internationale de Musicque et 
Danse in France, with Pierre Boulez in Swit­
zerland, with A. U. Boskovich in Israel, and 
with Geoarge Rochberg in Philadelphia.
He has written scores for art shows, scores 
for dance, scores for films and television, and 
scores for electronic music. He has taught, 
performed and conducted around the world, is 
the winner of numerous awards, and serves on 
several organizations and panels including the 
National Endowment for the Arts.
Also, one of his most noted accomplish­
ments, Thome is the founder and leader of 
World Sound, a group of musicians who sing, 
chant, and perform on folk, tribal, classical 
and sculptured instruments ranging from the 
most modem to the most ancient, assembled 
from all over the world. The group recently 
premiered two major Thome works: 
“Satyavan: Dream Twilight,” with an environ­
ment designed by painter Francoise Gilot, at
the Guggenheim Musuem in New York; and 
“Adoration of the Divine Mother” at the Na­
tional Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C.
Mr. Thome is also founder and music direc­
tor of Orchestra of Our Time, an organization 
that has worked in commissioning, presenting 
and promoting contemporary music for the 
past twenty years.
Akram Midani, dean of CFA, stated that 
Thome “will be developing challenging and 
innovative programs, including a global music 
approach to all levels of music study, a cur­
riculum conducive to academic and profes­
sional excellence, and high levels of interation 
with other campus disciplines such as drama, 
art, architecture, technology and manage­
ment.
And, it’s not just academic departments who 
are getting new leaders, Campus Police has 
hired James LaPaglia as its new chief after 
former Chief Ralph Pampena was named 
Pittsburgh Police Chief.
Mr. LaPaglia is the former Chief of the 
Forest Hills police. He also taught police sci­
ence at the Community College of Allegheny 
County and is a former instructor at the county 
Police Training Academy.
After two weeks on the job, Mr. LaPaglia has 
observed that CMU is a “charged environ­
ment,” and claims that he “hasn’t had a dull 
moment.” Mr. LaPaglia stated that he “be­
lieves in direction,” but is still getting input 
before establishing definite goals and objec­
tives.
Presenting the James M. Patterson Prize to CMU student J. Eric Bracken (center) are 
Edward J. Sargent (right), Chairman, and James M. Patterson, Jr. (left) of Sargent 
Electric Company.Student Wins Award
Pittsburgh — J. Eric Bracken, a junior, was 
the recipient of the 1987 James M. Patterson 
Prize presented by Edward J. Sargent, Chair­
man, and James M. Patterson, Jr., Vice Presi­
dent, of Sargent Electric Company.
The $6,000.00 award is presented annually 
to a junior-year electrical engineering student 
who is judged by a committee at the University 
to be most outstanding in his class in scholar­
ship, citizenship, and participation in his field.
The annual award, first presented in 1979, is
We know that a 
cheap calculator can 
cost you blood, sweat 
and time.
Investing in a 
Hewlett-Packard cal­
culator, on the other 
hand, can save you 
time and again.
HP calculators not 
only have better func­
tions. They function 
better. Without stick­
ing keys and bad 
connections.
Through October 
31, you can get the 
cream of the calcula­
tors at a non-fat price.
We’re cutting $10 
off the HP-12C. That 
buys you more built- 
in functions than any­
one else’s financial 
calculator.
And we’re giving 
away a free Advantage 
Module, a $49 value, 
with every HP-41 
Advanced Scientific 
calculator you buy. 
This 12K-byte plug­
in, menu-driven ROM 
was designed spe­
cially for students.
So drop by your 
campus bookstore and 
compare HP calcula­
tors with the rest. By 
midterm, you’ll see 
what a deal this is.
made in memory of James M. Patterson for 
extraordinary contributions to the electrical 
construction industry during his lengthy ca­
reer in the field.
Eric is the son of James V. and Patricia M. 
Bracken of Freeport, Pennsylvania. Eric’s 
future plans include graduate school to obtain 
his Masters degree in electrical engineering 
and a career working in research.
Ranked in the top ten firms of its kind nation­
ally, Sargent Electric Company, founded in 
1907, is engaged in a full range of electrical 
construction and maintenance services to 
business and industry, along with a number of 
specialties including fiber optics, instrumen­
tation, and telecommunications.
Have questions about your health?
ASK DOC!Look for it in next week's Tartan!
Used Book Sale
Nearly 5000 volumes!
Today only till 5:00pm 
Skibo Ballroom
Books for learning! 
Books for fun!
WORK FOR YOURSELF
As a campus representative 
you'll be responsible for placing 
advertising materials on bulletin 
boards and working on 
marketing programs for clients 
such as American Express, 
Boston University, Eurail, and 
various movie companies, 
among others. Part-time work, 
choose your own hours. No 
sales. Many of our reps stay 
with us long after graduation. If 
you are self-motivated, hard­
working, and a bit of an 
entrepreneur, call or write for 
more Information to:
AMERICAN PASSAGE 
NETWORK 
6211 W. HOWARD STREET 
CHICAGO, IL 6064S 
1(800) 221-5942 or 
(312) 647-6860 
CHICAGO DALLAS LOS ANGELES 
NEW YORK SEATTLE
WELCOME BACK 
fraternities, sororities, 
and other campus organ! 
zations. Need a photogra­
pher for Bid Day, for­
mats, date parties, etc? 
Call EASTERN PHOTO 
(412) 243 1671
LaPaglia named Chief of Security
HEWLETT
PACKARD
£ 1987 Hewlett-Packard Company PG 12703
FREE $49 HP-41 ADVANTAGE MODULE 1
with purchase of HP-41. Fur- I 
chase must be made between 
August 15,1987. and October 31. .
1H87. See your ¡ocal H P dealer 
for details and offk'ia! redemp­
tion form. Rebate or free Mod- i 
ule will be sent in 6 - 8 weeks.OR $10 OfFAN HP-12C. 1
I____________________I

---------------------------------------------------

o
Two great ways 
to cruise through the semester.
Enter September 1 - October 16 
CMU Computer Store
fertain restrictions apply; visit your campus computer center for complete promotional details One free Honda Elkem SO Scooter will be awarded per participating school, 
only registered students and facultyare eligible to win Odds of winning vary depending on size of school and number of contest entrants. No purchase necessary 
©1987 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple and the Apple logo are registered trademarks of Apple Comp«er, Inc Macwtush is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc Elite is a trademark of Honda.
So head over to your campus computer center today. And ask about 
our Student Financing Program.
Who knows? You may soon find yourself cruising a little farther than 
you expected
A Test drive a Macintosh. H<^IA 
You may ride away on a Honda Scooter.
The hand on the left is poised on what could be the most essential part of 
your education.
A Macintosh™ computer.
And the hand on the right is gripping pure, simple, unadulterated fun.
A Honda Scooter. One we’re giving away.
All you have to do for a chance to drive it away is visit your campus 
computer center and fill out an entry form. While you’re there, take a 
Macintosh for a test drive.
Because Macintosh can help you write term papers, categorize 
elements of the periodic table, plot the rise and fall of pork-bellv prices, 
compile computer code, and talk to other computers.
And the first 250 people on campus who get behind a mouse, so to 
speak, will receive a free Apple® memo board.

---------------------------------------------------

VILLAGE
PIZZA
Home of the Cajun Pie 
687-3357
This coupon good for 
20% off delivered orders
ORDER MUST BE OVER $4.00
________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
The most exciting few hours you’ll spend all week.
Run. Climb. Rappel. Navigate. Lead. 
And develop the confidence and 
skills you won’t get from a textbook. 
Enroll in Army ROTC 30-204 
as one of your electives. Get the facts 
today. BE ALL YOU CAN BE.
Call x 2205 or stop by Room A204 
Ground Floor, Hamburg Hall.
ARMY RESERVE OFFICERS'TRA1NINC- CORPS
Welcome Students!!
CMU Laundry and Dry Cleaners announces our services to all students. We offercomplete laundry and dry clean­
ing services. We wash, dry and fold your laundry at $.55 per pound. Laundry dropped off in the morning is ready 
for pick up that afternoon. Dry cleaning and shirt laundry dropped off before noon will be ready the next working 
day after 1 pm.
Stop in and see our monthly specials!
Tie$1.25Dresses$4.50
Vest$1.85Two piece Dress$5.00
Shirt$2.25Skirt$2.25
Blouse$2.25Silk$2.75
Two piece suit$4.50Three piece Suit$5.25
Blazer$2.25Pants$2.25
Sweater$2.25LightJacket$2.25
Medium Jacket$3.00Heavy Jacket$5.75
Down Jacket$6.50Car Coat$4.75
Rain Coat$5.75Winters Coat$6.00
Down Coat$7.75
Shirt laundry$ .85 per shirt
Ladies Blouses$1.25
I---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------1
¡Coupon j
i Laundry and Dry Cleaning Service >
, (1 per customer - Expires September 30 1987) £
I |
I---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------1

---------------------------------------------------

September 1,1987—The Tartan—Page 15
Pirate moves continueTouch Football. Tennis Due This Week
continued from page 16
Morrison was made expendable by the emer­
gence of Bobby Bonilla as the regular third 
baseman. Bonilla is hitting just below .300
f
 ith 12 homers, power that the Pirates desper- 
ely need.
Thrift’s early season deal with the Cardinals, 
the deal that supposedly sent the pennant to St. 
Louis in the persona of Tony Pena, now looks 
brilliant. Andy Van Slyke has moved Bobby 
Bonds to left field and is playing an excellent 
defensive center field with a high average and
17 homers. Catcher Mike LaValliere is also 
hitting near .300 and has sent Junior Ortiz back 
AMC thebench. The minor league pitcher in the 
deal, Mike Dunne, is starting and while 
streaky, he has shown spots of brilliance like 
his 2 hit shutout of the Reds last week.
With the departure of Ray, Thrift may be fin­
ished dealing for now. The only other person 
who could go is R. J. Reynolds, who may not fit 
into the Pirate’s long term plans.
The IM Report
Pirate Manager Jim Leyland has a new squad 
every day.
Sports Fans!
Carnegie Mellon Athletics start this Saturday, and next Tuesday. The 
Tartan will have all the scores and stories PLUS previews of the rest of the 
fall action!
From New York to Chicago, Thiel to Bethany; No One Covers the Tartans like The Tartan.
Special to the Tartan
With the beginning of classes, the intramural 
program has also started up again. This week, 
entry sheets are already due for the first two 
sports: touch football and tennis.
The Carnegie Mellon Intramural Department 
Oficials Club opens its second full year of 
service and is looking for new members. The 
goal of the club is to provide consistent play 
and officiating, as well as provide job oppor­
tunités for those students who join the club. 
Officials who belong to the club are paid the 
University rate of $4.00 per game. Officals 
will be neded for touch football, volleyball, 
and soccer. All those who are interested 
should contact Mike Mastroianni, Assistant 
Intramural Director, at x2214 for further infor­
mation.
One change from last year, the forfeit fee has 
been increased to five dollars. This has been 
done in an effort to give teams more of an 
incentive to not forfeit any games.
At the first IM Board Meeting last week, a 
new Board Presiden was elected, Rob Shlack- 
man. Two candidates for vice-president, Stu 
Fox and Mike Grzywinski, and one for se- 
creatry, Chris Young, was elected. The posi­
tion of women’s president remains open.
Sports in Season:
Touch Football 
Commissioners 
Majors - Paul Masalsky x5468 
Intermediate - Pat Jeffries x4299 
Minors - Mike Grzywinski 681-2826 
Women - Position Available 
Entry Date - Sept. 3
Rules Clinic - Sept. 3, Women’s Gym ai 
4:00 pm 
Tennis
Commissioner - Mike Hayes x4086 
Entry Date - Sept. 3 
Golf
Commissioner - Brian Wilson x 5448 
Entry Date -Sept. 10 
Co-Rec Voleyball 
Entry Date - Sept. 10 
Faculty & Staff Noon Time Doubles Tennis 
Entry Date - Sept. 10 
Cross Country 
Entry Date - Sept. 17 
Water Polo 
Entry Date - Sept. 17 
Chess 
Entry Date - Sept. 17
September 3:
Baseball vs Duquesne at Mellon Park 
Intramural Deadline for Football and 
^Tennis 
September 5:
Soccer vs Georgia State at Emory, 1PM 
Men’s Cross Country vs Duquesne, 
Geneva, and West Liberty at Schenley 
Park, 11 AM
Women’s Cross Country vs Duquesne 
and West Liberty at Schenley Park, 11
AM
^pField Hockey at Juniata, 1PM 
September 6:
Soccer vs Case Western Reserve or 
Emory at Emory 
September 8:
Field Hockey vs Indiana U of Pa at Tech 
Field, 4:30PM
Help!
Any females interested in 
joining the cross-country 
team, contact Dario Donatelli 
at Gym 104 or x2220.
Needed:
^ Work-study managers for Camegie Mellon’s 
Fall Varsity Athletic teams. Managers are 
needed for football, soccer, men's and women's 
cross-country, women’s field hockey, women’s 
tennis and women's volleyball.
Interested parties should apply in the office of 
the Director of Athletics, Room 204 in the Gym.
LH-EXTRA I III BASF 90 
90 minuteSAVE
EBASF 90
fiUM
BASF LH-E190LH-extralOCOMAI 2 K 45 mm 1J2n890ea
BASFT120
ON > BASF 
AUDIO TAPE
90 minute
4-PACK & 
BONUS CASE
90 minute
10-PACK
17"reg.24"
chromemctmQuolliy4« REG. LOW PRICE 
_ -I 00 MFR. REBATE
549 REG. LOW PRICE 
- "I00 MFR. REBATE
POSTERS
ALSO FROM 
NAPA VALLEY
WALL UNIT 36 CAPACITY 
SALE 1299 reg. 15.99
CD CRATE 15 CAPACITY 
SALE 399 reg. 499
CASSETTE CRATE
WALL-MOUNTED UNIT SALE 299
HOLDS 64 TAPES 12 CAPACITY
reg. 299
2
DOWNTOWN 
Comer of Wood & Oliver 
261-107595
22x28
HOTTEST 
ROCK ARTISTS
reg. 395
SOUTH HILLS 
5000 Library Rd. Bethel Pk. 
^OAKLANET^ 833-9222
3712 FORBES AVE. uAaiAncessn687-9433 ^ Monroeville Mall
NORTH 
4768 McKnight Rd. 
367-4646MUSIC and UIOEO
Home of the $1 Video Rental"^
856-7330
COMPACT DISCS • CASSETES • LP’S 
12 DANCE • ACCESSORIES
WATERWORKS 
Waterworks Shopping Center 
________781-3939____________________________
I

---------------------------------------------------

Here a Bue, There a Bue, Everywhere a Bue Bue
By JOHN FRIEDMANTartan Contributing Editor 
Some things haven’t changed with the Pirates 
since you left school in May. They still play in 
Three Rivers Stadium. The Pirate Parrot is still 
around. And yes, the Bucs are still in last place.
But that’s about all that hasn’t changed. 
September’s team is almost as different from 
May’s as May’s was from last season’s squad. 
General Manager Syd Thrift, criticized early 
and often for his reluctance to make trades, has 
been wheeling and dealing most of the sum­
mer, disposing of most of the few veterans 
remaining.
The most veteran Pirate of all was dealt last 
week. Rick Reuschel, the 37 year old hurler 
picked off the scrap heap in 1985 and 
Pittsburgh’s winningest pitcher since, was 
dealt to the west-leading San Francisco 
Giants. In return came Jeff Robinson, a 26- 
year old short reliever, and a minor leaguer. 
Reuschel, who might have been a Cy Young
canidate this season had he played for a better 
team, will help San Francisco in their stretch 
drive, while Robinson is another piece of 
Thrift’s rebuilt bullpen and could be the new 
stopper.
The stopper’s role needed filling because of 
the departure earlier in the season of another 
Robinson, Don. The final remaining member 
of the 1979 “family” was shipped to the same 
Giants for Jim Gott, who has mostly been a 
long reliever of late.
The most recent trade was made on Satur­
day. Second baseman Johnny Ray, an infield 
fixture since he was acquired for Phil Gamer 
in 1980, was shipped off to the Angels. Ray had 
been on the trading block for over a month, 
with little sucess, and was expected to be dealt 
over the off-season. In return for Ray, the 
Pirates received a minor league prospect and a 
player to be named later.
One swap that seems to have worked well is
an early season exchange with the Mets. The 
World Champions were worried about a rash 
of infield injuries and looked for a veteran 
backup. The Pirates were happy to provide one 
in the well-travelled Bill Almon, and in ex­
change received shortstop A1 Pedrique. Pedri- 
que got an opportunity to start and quickly 
wrested the job away from incumbent Rafael 
Belliard by hitting over .300.
Pedrique, who put in nine years in the minor 
leagues but is only 26 years old, sees this as his 
big chance and is making the most of it. “I’m
just doing the best I can right now because who 
knows about next spring.”
Another infield swap was third baseman Jim 
Morrison to the pennant-contending Tigers in 
exchange for Darnell Coles. While Morrison 
will certainly help Detroit in their pennant 
drive, Coles is an unknown quantity. He can 
play third base and the outfield, and had an 
excellent rookie year in 1986. But he has not 
hit nearly as well in 1987, and the pitchers may 
have figured him out. fp
continued on page 15
photo re hsye Gilie*p»c
Next Saturday, this Tartan lineman will be up against the 
center pullout for more information on the upcoming season.
New Faces on the Sidelines
By STEWART LEVINETartan Sports Editor
If you peek your head into Room 104 of the 
Gym, you’re likely to find several new 
faces at several of the desks. The Tartans 
have new coaches this year for women’s 
cross-country and track, volleyball, and 
men’s and women’s tennis.
The first coach to start his Carnegie Mel­
lon career will be Dario Donatelli. 
Donatelli, after three years as an assistant to 
men’s cross-country and track coach Gary 
Meckley, takes over as coach of the 
women’s program.
Donatelli has ties to the running program 
at CMU dating back to 1977 as an under­
graduate on the men’s cross-country team. 
In ’78, ’79, ‘and ’80 he earned All-East 
honors, and in 1980 was PAC Champion 
and named a Division III All-American.
On the track, Donatelli was just as suc­
cessful, winning the PAC Championship in 
5,000 and 10,000 meters in 1980 and ’81. 
The Wilkinsburg native still holdsthe Car­
negie Mellon records in the 5000 meter and 
three-mile run.
Donatelli inherits a Lady Tartans team 
looking to do big things. In only their third 
year competing, the team went 6-0 in dual 
meet competition, won its second consecu­
tive PAC Championship, and placed 13th in 
the NCAA Eastern Regionals.
Heading the squad is sophomore Sue 
Johnson, who as a freshman last season 
earned PAC Most-Valuable-Perfomer by 
winning the PAC meet and juniot Franc­
esca Crannell who finished third. The Lady 
Tartans open competition on Saturday ay
11 AM in Schenley Park.
The second of the trio starts his second 
tour of duty as a Tartan coach on Septem­
ber 9th against Duquesne. Dave Lichtman 
takes over coaching duties for both the 
men’s and women’s tennis teams. Licht­
man had previously coached the men from 
1966 to 1971. Under his tenure as coach, 
the Tartans lost only two matches. 
Lichtman was a four year letterman at the 
Pitt, and after graduating in 1958 competed 
locally in tournaments around the Tri-State 
area winning over 200 tourneys in 20 years. 
In 1971, Lichtman was ranked the #1 ten­
nis player by the Tri-State Racquet News. 
He left CMU that year to become head 
coach for Shaler High School. Three times 
under him, Shaler made it as far as the 
WP1AL semi-finals, winning the section 
championship once. Lichtman takes over 
two solid programs, the Lady Tartans won 
the PAC tournament last season, and the 
Tartans tied for third in men’s competition. 
The final new head coach is Sue Flaherty, 
who takes over the volleyball program 
from Jane Fisk who retired last year after
35 years of service at CMU. Flaherty is 
charged with rebuilding the volleyball 
program which last season finished last in 
the PAC with a 1-11 conference record, 5-
18 overall.
Flaherty comes to Carnegie Mellon from 
Yough High School, where she had been an 
assistant women’s volleyball and basket­
ball coach. In 1985, she coached Hemp- 
field High School’s volleyball squad to the 
WPIAL AAA quarter-finals. The volley­
ball Tartans open up their season next week 
hosting their annual tournament in Skibo 
Gym.
VARSITY • IM REPORT • SPORTS FEATURES
Plav Starts This WeekendBrandéis Joins University Athletic Association
By STEWART LEVINETartan Sports Editor
The University Athletic Association has yet 
to start playing a game in any sport; however, 
it already has had its first change in member­
ship. On May 24th, it was announced that 
Brandeis University in Waltham, Mass. had 
joined the UAA as its ninth member.
In the announcement, Carnegie Mellon’s 
President Richard Cyert proclaimed, “The 
UAA provides the opportunity for national 
competition among student-athletes from 
major private research universities with simi­
lar academic and athletic policies and stan­
dards. Having another institution which
means these criteria strengthens the Associa­
tion and enriches the extra-curricular experi­
ence which we offer to our students.”
The University Athletic Association was 
formed in June 1986 as a confederation of 
eight major Eastern research universities who 
compete in varsity sports at the Division III 
level. The founding institutions including 
Carnegie Mellon were: Case Western Re­
serve, Cleveland; the University of Chicago, 
Emory University, Atlanta; Johns Hopkins 
University, Baltimore; New York University, 
the University of Rochester and Washington 
University in St. Louis.
Last season was a transition year for the 
member schools as the institutions attempted 
to modify their schedules to meet as many 
UAA schools as their schedules permitted. 
For example, last season the men’s basketball 
squad faced Rochester, Case Western, Chi­
cago, and NYU at tournaments in New York, 
San Diego, and Pittsburgh.
The UAA begins its first official year of play 
this weekend at Emory University where three 
soccer games involving member schools will 
take place. The men’s and women’s soccer 
squads of Emory and Case Western Reserve 
will meet each other on Saturday. Carnegie
Mellon’s team will also be in Atlanta for the 
19th annual Emory Invitational Tournament, 
facing Georgia State on Saturday and meeting 
either Emory or Case on Sunday.
During this introductory season, round-robin 
competition is scheduled for football, men’s 
and women’s soccer, and men’s and women’s 
basketball. For the other 16 varsity sports 
encompassed by the league, confemce cham­
pionship tournaments have been scheduled at 
the various member schools. Originally, the 
men’s tennis tournament was to be held at 
Carnegie Mellon, but that tourney wl, 
awarded to Brandeis when they joined the 
UAA.
Thrift Moves Manx Men
The TartanPORT

---------------------------------------------------

MOVIES..........................Page D3
Hamburger Hill presents a haunting picture 
of the Vietnam War
COMEDY........................Page D5
SCTV comes to Pittsburgh on Saturday at 
Graffiti
The TartanTVERSTON
ENTERTAINMENT • COMICS • CALENDAR • CLASSIFIEDS
INSIDEI
The Benedum Center Opens Its Doors to Pittsburgh
By LESLIE GRIFFINAssistant Diversions Editor 
This fall marks the end of the nothing-to-do 
weekend. With the grand opening of the 
Benedum Center for the Performing Arts this 
September, Pittsburgh gains a cultural palace* impressive enough to compete with the best. 
“The Benedum is a major performance facil­
ity,” says Manuel Levine, former director of 
Heinz Hall and now manager of the Winter 
Garden in New York City. “Not many cities 
have a theater of this caliber.”
The Benedum Center will be the new home 
of the Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre, The Pitts­
burgh Opera, the Civic Light Opera and the 
»Pittsburgh Dance Council. Using approxi­
mately 50 percent of the theater’s schedule, 
these groups are expected to eventually extend 
their performance seasons. In addition, the 
Benedum will offer full-cast, first-run Broad­
way touring productions, national and interna­
tional performing arts groups, musicals, popu­
lar concerts and special events. With all these 
options, who could find time for a dull eve- 
*.ning?
You wont need to rent a tux
Curtain’s Up! , a four-day opening festival 
running from Friday, September 25 through 
Monday, September 28 will showcase this $42 
million historic restoration of the Stanley 
Theatre. “Curtain’s Up! is an opening with 
something for everybody. Whether you love 
jazz or classical music, ballet or modem 
iance, orchestras, quintets, big bands, opera or 
musical variety shows, you’ll find it at 
Benedum’s grand opening,” says Carol R. 
Brown, President of The Pittsburgh Trust for 
Cultural Resources, which operates the 
Benedum.
Don’t despair—you won’t need to rent a tux 
or empty your wallet to pay for tickets to 
attend. “This opening is geared to families and 
^students, so its not stuffy at all. It’s purposely 
not black tie because we want an open atmos­
phere right from the start,” says Saul Markow­
itz, Assistant Manager for Marketing and 
Public Relations for the Benedum Center.
The festival will feature 18 performances 
inside the theater, plus a wide variety of 
streetshows by mimes, jugglers, musicians 
and others. Also featured will be jazz concerts 
f.it Heinz Plaza by Johnny Costa and James 
Johnson, backstage tours of Heinz Hall and a 
“Stanley Movie Retrospective” at the Fulton 
Theatre where ticket prices will match the 
original prices at the Stanley Theatre. For 50 
cents you can see You Only Live Once which 
played the Stanley in 1937. If you want to see 
Adam’s Rib it will cost you 75 cents—the 
original 1949 price. How’s that for a cheap 
date.
“This is a real sampler of music and dance 
groups in our area, “Mrs. Brown says of the 
opening festival. “We’ve held ticket prices to 
$2.50 per seat, so it’s possible to bring the 
whole family.” The special 30 to 45 minute 
performances make an ideal introduction to a 
variety of performing arts, Mrs. Brown added. 
“Many performances feature excerpts from 
^'arger works — such as the Pittsburgh Opera’s 
presentation of arias. If you’ve always wanted 
to hear the Mendelssohn Choir sing or the 
River City Brass Band play, this is your chance 
to...sample your favorites all in one after­
noon.”
In addition to all the excitement during the 
day, four evening performances highlight the 
weekend’s festivities. Purely Pittsburgh , at 
*:00 p.m. Friday, September 25, is an original
musical written and produced especially for 
the Benedum opening by Manuel Levine and 
Dan Langan featuring an all-star cast of Pitts­
burghers and ex-Pittsburghers. Saturday, 
September 26, at 8:30 p.m. the Center will 
present the modem dance troupe Pilobolus, a 
provacative and often funny troupe which has 
been a favorite among Pittsburgh audiences. 
Sunday, September 27 at 7:30 p.m. Lionel 
Hampton and Rosemary Clooney will present 
“A tribute to Benny Goodman” in honor of the 
big band era of the Stanley Theatre. 
Pittsburgh’s own favorite jazzman, George 
Benson will perform Monday, September 28, 
and 7:30 p.m. with the Pittsburgh Jazz Orches­
tra under Nathan Davis.
Tickets to all performances are available 
through the Benedum Center Box Office (456- 
6666) and the TIX booths in Oliver Square at 
Wood Street. Prices for the evening perform­
ances range from $ 12 to $25, depending on the 
performance. Reservations are especially 
recommended for those performances held in 
one of the theater’s three full-sized rehearsal 
halls, where seating is limited.
In the tradition of the Stanley Theatre
In light of the Benedum Center’s illustrious 
former life as the Stanley Theatre, an opening 
festival as jam-packed with entertainment as 
this one is only suitable. The Stanley Theatre 
opened in 1928 as an eight-story, $3 million 
“thespian fairyland” built by James Bly Clark 
under the direction of the Stanley Company of 
America. For 65 cents, Pittsburgh society 
could take in a first run film and a live stage 
show.
The Stanley remained popular straight 
through the 1930’s and 1940’s with weekly 
stage shows featuring major enterainers like 
Jack Benny, Betty Grable and Jackie Coogan, 
Rudy Vallee, Ella Fitzgerald, Judy Garland, 
The Marx Brothers, Mickey Rooney, Jimmy 
Durante, and Frank Sinatra. Big bands were 
among the most popular features, with many 
performances also broadcast on radio. Some 
of the bands included Duke Ellington and His 
Famous Radio and Recording Orchestra, Cab 
Calloway and His Cotton Club Orchestra, 
Ozzie Nelson, Benny Goodman, Tommy 
Dorsey and many more.
The Stanley was purchased and remodelled 
by the Cinemette Corporation in 1976. In 
1977, Pittsburgh presenters DeCesare Engler
Above: The orginal Stanley Theatre mar­
quee exactly as it appeared on Opening 
night in 1928.
Right: A worker inspects the finishing 
touches to the walls of the Benedum Center 
for the Performing Arts
purchased the Stanley and brought major per­
formers back to the stage. Liza Minelli, Dolly 
Parton, Willie Nelson, Bob Dylan, Paul Si­
mon, and James Taylor are a few who ap­
peared between 1978 and 1982. The Stanley 
was best known during this time for its rock 
and roll shows where it gained fans like Bill­
board Magazine, which named the Stanley the 
number one auditorium in the U.S. in 1979: “A 
magnificent auditorium which seats 3,500 
people in style and grace,” said Billboard. The 
Stanley Theatre closed its doors on June 14,
1984 after a raucous Ted Nugent show to begin 
its transformation into the Benedum Center.
A mix of romantic and baroque styles
When theatergoers first set foot inside the 
Benedum Center on the opening day, they will 
see a faithful restoration of the Stanley Theatre 
as it was when it originally opened in 1928. 
The careful historic restoration is being com­
pleted according to strict federal restoration 
standards by Mac Lachlan, Cornelius & Filoni. 
The theater has been nominated to the Na­
tional Register of Historic Places.
“We’ve been permitted to make the neces­
sary adaptations of an old movie house into a 
performing arts center,” said principle archi­
tect A1 Filoni. “But a great deal of care and 
discussion with historians has gone into creat­
ing the ambiance of the original Stanley.” The 
major changes include amenities needed for 
live performances — additional lobby space 
and restrooms and a remodelled prosenium 
arch to improve natural acoustics and narrow 
the stage opening. Another significant change 
is that the number of seats has been reduced 
from 3,500 to 2,800 for live perfomances. 
Permitted by Federal guidelines, the change 
was made to provide unobstructed audience 
views from any location in the house. Because 
of the reduction, the Benedum’s new seats will 
be wider, roomier and more comfortable than 
the originals.
Reflecting a mix of romantic and baroque 
styles, the original Stanley interiors were 
adorned with elaborate, decorative plaster- 
work and aluminum-leaf detailing. Mirrors 
continued oa pagf D8The seating capacity of the mainstage has been reduced to 2,800 from the original 3,500.

---------------------------------------------------

Page D2—The Tartan—September 1,1987
CLOTHING MEN AND YOUNG MEN SINCE 7960
London
Our new collections have arrived from 
Girbcud, Edwin, Jimmy'Z, Polo, 
Alexander Julian, and Gotcha.
This Week in Doherty 2210
Student Cultural Discounts:
Take a Rest from Studying with a PSO Music Break
PITTSBURGH—Pittsburgh area students 
who will be returning to their campuses and 
classrooms this fall currently are being invited 
to take a Music Break by purchasing specially 
priced subscriptions to the Pittsburgh 
Symphony’s 1987-88 season in Heinz Hall. In 
response to last year’s successful student se^ 
ries, we have added a Saturday evening series. 
For as little as $4.50 per weekend concert, 
college students will be introduced to the 
music of the masters performed by the re­
nowned Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra.
Distinguished conductors such as Lorin 
Maazel, Michael Tilson Thomas, Charles 
Dutoit and Gennady Rozhdestvensky will be 
on the podium during the season. Among the 
exciting guest soloists who will appear on the 
Student series this year will be pianists Andre 
Watts and Viktoria Postnikova, violinist 
Elmar Oliveira and cellist Matt Haimovitz.
The special discount prices are in effect for 
student subscriptions to Sunday afternoon
series of six concerts each, as well as Friday 
evening series of 12 and 24 concerts each. The 
Sunday afternoon series of six concerts is 
available to students at $30.00 per subscrip­
tion. Series of 12 concerts on either Friday or 
Saturday evening at 8:30 p.m. are available at£ 
$66.00 for each subscription. The package of 
24 Friday evenings is offered at a student 
discount price of $108.00 providing the ulti­
mate Symphony experience for only $4.50 per 
concert.
Students are invited to call 392-4821 with a 
current student identification number and an 
active VISA, MasterCard or American Ex-£ 
press charge card number to order tickets by 
telephone. Subscriptions ordered at the special 
Student discount price do not include the ticket 
exchange privilege accorded regular subscrip­
tions purchases. A brochure containing the 
student series schedule is available upon re­
quest at Heinz Hall.
Stars: Sissy Spacek, Jessica Lange, Diane 
Keaton.Showtimes: 6:00, 8:00,10:00,12:00 
Saturday, September 5
After Hours
A computer operator unwillingly spends a 
night in the SoHo area of downtown Man­
hattan. A trio of strange women mystify, 
seduce, and horrify our hapless hero and his 
life soon becomes a nightmare. Rated R for 
profanity, nudity, violence, and general 
weirdness. Director: Martin Scorsese. 
Stars: Rosanna Arquette, Teri Garr, Griffin 
Dunne.Showtimes: 6:00, 8:00,10:00,12:00 
Sunday, September 6
Pink Flamingos
The “granddaddy of Midnight Movies.” 
The story of the filthiest People Alive: their 
loves, their hates, and their unquenchable 
thirst for notoriety. Don’t look for brilliant 
acting or sophisticated plot twists — the 
point here is to shock. If this doesn’t, 
nothing will. Director: John Waters. 
Stars: Divine, David Lochary, Mink Stole. Showtimes: 6:00, 8:00,10:00, 12:00
5842 Forbes Avenue 
Squirrel Hill
421-5710
Thursday, September 3
Bliss
A parable-type film laden with black hu­
mor about modem life. The story begins 
when an average advertising executive 
drops dead from a heart attack. However, 
four minutes later he is revived and his life 
becomes a nightmare vision of suburban 
lunacy, The crassness of this executive’s 
lunatic life leads him to move into the 
wilderness with an organically bent prosti­
tute.
Director: Ray Lawrence.
Stars: Barry Otto, Lynette Curran, Helen 
Jones.Showtimes: 6:00, 8:00, 10:00, 12:00
Friday, September 4
Crimes of the Heart
Based on Beth Henley’s award-winning 
play, this film deals with the reunion of 
three off-beat sisters in their hometown of 
Hazlehurst, Mississippi. One sister has just 
shot her husband, the second is recovering 
from a nervous breakdown, while the third 
is a man-shy spinster. Sam Shepard has a 
small but memorable role.
Director: Bruce Beresford.
Fox Chapel Plaza 
Freeport & Fox Chapel Roads
781-0811
PITTSBURGH FILMMAKERS
THE MEDIA ARTS CENTER
Offers classes in FILM, VIDEO and PHOTOGRAPHY 
for credit to CARNEGIE MELLON students
For information and a Fall class schedule, call Pittsburgh Filmmakers
at 681-5449.
To register, please contact the Deans' office of the College of Fine
Arts at 268-2348.
FALL CLASSES 
(Tuesday, September 8 - Monday, December 14,1987)
Film
Filmmaking I, II & III 
Directing 
Film Editing 
Screenwriting 
Video Production 
Elements of Film 
American Film Comedy 
Senior Film Production I & II
Photography
Black and White Photo I & II 
Color Photography I 
Studio Lighting 
Looking at Photos: Critical 
Approaches
Pittsburgh Filmmakers' Administrative offices are located at 218 
Oakland Avenue, off Forbes Ave.
Your first college quiz
1. Q: Where do all smart students spend their 
loan money?
A: BeHei Sound ,
Concepts >V You'll hear the Difference!
Dual
spectrum milium
minon'--------------ÉLECTROniD
** /R/ANDERSTEEN ALACOUSTICRESEARCH
Raima
American Acoustic*
PSAUDD
ASK ABOUT - Extended warranties 
-Special student pricing 
-Free tape with cassette deck purchase 
-Portable and party speakers
2. Q: Why do CMU students love BETTER 
SOUND CONCEPTS?
A: They know who treats them well!
Bette _Sounc Concepts
687-3737
400 S. Craig St. 
Between Forbes & Fifth
MC
VISA

---------------------------------------------------

September 1,1987—The Tartan—Page D3
Hamburger Hill
Directed by John Irvin; written by Jim 
Carabatsos; produced by Marcia Nasatir 
and Mr. Carabatsos; released by Para­
mount 
Cast: Anthony Barrile, Dylan McDer­
mott, Courtney Vance.
ATTENTION! ATTENTION! ATTENTION! 
THE CARNEGIE MELLON ACTION PROJECT (C-MAP) IS 
INTERESTED IN HIRING TUTORS FOR THE FOLLOWING 
COURSES:
21-105 Pre-calculus
21-111 Calculus I
21-121 Calculus I
21-112 Calculus II
21-259 Calculus in 3D
33-121 Physics I: Mechanics
33-122 Physics II: Heat Wave Motion &
Optics
33-123 Physics III: Electricity & 
Magnetics 
09-105 Chemistry I 
09-117 Organic Chemistry
03-121 Modem Biology 
76-100 Strategies for Writing 
24-141 Statics & Dynamics 
24-102 Statics of Deformable Solids 
24-121 Thermodynamics I 
24-233 Thermodynamics II 
24-245 Dynamics of Physical Systems 
24-258 Numerical Methods 
21-369 Numerical Methods
21-257 Optimization for the Social 
Sciences
21-260 Differential Equations 
18-101 Linear Circuits Analysis 
15-111 Logic Computations 
15-118 Intro to Computing 
73-360 Econometrics 
73-100 Principles of Economics 
85-100 Cognitive Process Theory and 
Practice
80-100 Philosophic Methods 
27-131 Intro to Material Science 
18-201 Fields Analysis & Engineering 
36-209 Probability and Applied Statistics 
36-210 Probability and Applied Statistics 
36-211 Probability and Applied Statistics 
36-212 Probability and Applied Statistics 
36-309 Experimental Design for Behav­
ioral and Social Sciences 
39-252 Real Time Computing in the 
Laboratory
If you are interested in tutoring, please contact Dr. LaValla Wilson at 
268-2150. A copy of your transcript, or a letter of recommendation 
from your department or instructor, is needed to asses your competency 
in the given subject.
, Hamburger Hill brilliantly portrays the horrors of the Vietnam War
By BRUCE KASRELTartan Diversion Editor
Since originality is now a four letter word to 
Hollywood studio execs and the slogan “If it 
works once, it will work a dozen times” is 
spoken frequently in Studio Boardrooms, 
movie theaters are filled with cheap imitations 
r of a successful original. Thanks to the critical 
r and box office success of Platoon, the Viet­
nam War film is a prime target of money 
hungry producers. There are two television 
series set for next season, and there are rumors 
of a few movie projects ready for production. 
The newly released Vietnam War film, Ham­burger Hill, will inevitably be thrown into the 
category of “Platoon inspired,” however, this9 labeling is unfair to this remarkable film.
Simply put, Hamburger Hill is what Platoon 
should have been. There are no power crazed 
sergeants or characters who must survive so 
they can narrate the movie. Instead of creating 
a story around the war, Hamburger Hill makes 
the war a story all by itself.
On May 10, 1969, troops of 101 Airborne 
began their assault on Dong Ap Bia, desig­
nated hill 937. The hill was nicknamed Ham- 
^ burger Hill due to the 70% casualty rate suf­
fered in securing it It was later abandoned 
after the bunkers were destroyed. The movie 
focuses on a squad of 14 men who fought in 
this bloody battle.
Although the group has a leader, Sgt. Frantz 
(Dylan McDermott), his authority and cine­
matic importance are decreased by the fact that 
the unit as a whole must work together to 
: survive. As a result, the movie features some 
superb ensemble acting. Unfortunately, due to 
the similar personalities and appearance of 
some of the lesser characters, things get a little 
confusing. One might interpret this as a state­
ment from the direct«-, John Irvin, that war 
makes everybody the same.
Irvin does give one character a bit of special
treatment As the squad medic, Doc, Courtney 
Vance gives the film an added boast of adre­
naline every time he is on screen. Vance bril­
liantly brings out Doc’s inner strength he uses 
to deal with death every day. As a black man, 
in a white man’s army, Doc must also cope 
with the heat-of-the-moment outbreaks of 
racism. Vance is especially strong in the 
scenes where he must control his anger to­
wards racial slurs.
The film does give special treatment to the 
issues facing blacks, which is an critical ele­
ment that has been missing from most war 
movies. Another outside element Irvin pres­
ents is the way the soldiers are looked upon 
back home. In one of the films most moving 
moments, a senior squad member lectures to a 
small group about the fact that the members of 
the peace movement have a love button for 
everybody except them. In another scene, a 
young soldier reads aloud a letter from his girl, 
in which she says that she is not going to write 
him anymore because her college friends say it 
is immoral. The rest of the squad looks on, 
realizing that they are truly alone.
The actual war sequences are realistic and 
horrifying. There are no moments of grandiose 
surrealism, or overly dramatized deaths. S ince 
none of the characters are more important than 
the others, any one is fair game to die at any 
given moment. This adds even more tension 
during the numerous battles.
The technical detail that the makers of Hamburger Hill went through to accurately
Sgt. Franz (Dylan McDermott) comforts a fatally wounded squadmember
recreate the actual battles, is impressive. The 
movie was filmed entirely in the Philippines. 
The effects of the intense bombardment the 
hill suffered during the assault, was simulated 
by removing the tops of over 1,00 trees. The 
Department of Defense supplied authentic 
military equipment While the entire operation 
was supervised by the brigade commander of
the battle of Hamburger Hill.
The attention to detail, fine acting, stunning 
photography, and no-nonsense approach ex­
actly what war is like, make this film one of the 
most powerful and haunting war films ever. 
Even if you feel that you have had your fill of 
Vietnam with Platoon, go see this movie it is 
one of the finest American War films ever.
FA5H 1 On
AnT1 Q UE
THROUGH THE 5 I XTI E
56901/2 ELL5WORTH AVEHUE 
PITT55URGH » 15232 » ¿I2°36h3360

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan
invites
all Carnegie Mellon
students
to j oin its staff
There will be an organizational meeting 
for The Tartan tonight, Tuesday, Septem­
ber 1, at 8:30pm in the Wherrett Room. All 
students who are interested in joining the 
Tartan staff are invited to attend. Meet all 
of the editors, and find out where you fit in.
Free Pizza and Chicken Wings 
will be served!
--Funded by Student Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

September 1,1987—The Tartan—Page D5
w Second City Touring Company Sure to Bring Laughs to Graffiti
The Second City National Touring Company includes: (L-R Bottom Row): Sean Master- 
son, Tim O’Malley, Christina Dunn, Evan Gore (L-R Top Row): Ron West, Laura 
Wasserman, Will Clinger, Judith Scott.
By AMANDA COHENTartan Comedy Critic
The Second City comedy troupe performing 
at Graffiti next Saturday will not be the Sec­
ond City most people know. They will present 
a show similar to what most people recognize 
as Second City’s style of topical sketch com-
* edy, widely popularized by Second City Tele­
vision (SCTV), but none of the cast members 
will be Eugene Levy, Dave Thomas, Andrea 
Martin, or any of the SCTV people.
Nor will any of them be Gilda Radner or Dan 
Aykroyd or any of the large number of per­
formers who went to work for Saturday Night Live after leaving the popular improvisational 
troupe. Seeing them live at Graffiti would be 
too good to be true.
The Second City performers appearing at 
Graffiti are part of the same Second City, but 
they are a small subset of the 200 or so past and 
present members of troup. They are the under­
grads of an educational system whose gradu­
ates include Robert Klein, Paul Mazursky, 
David Steinberg, and Joan Rivers.
Workshops at the troupe’s home in Chicago 
train young actors in theatrical improvisation 
and writing. Some are asked to join the troupe, 
but they are still far from the mainstage. They 
begin with the touring company, serving their 
time on the road for a year or more, developing 
sketches from performances based on audi­
ence suggestions.
From the touring company, some move up to 
Second City E.T.C., a group that has it’s own
O little theatre behind the mainstage in the Old 
Town section of Chicago. The mainstage itself 
rs reserved for a small core group of specially 
chosen Second City artists, but other branch 
troupes have established permanent homes in 
Toronto; Dundee, Illinois; and London, On­
tario.
: People tend to get famous just after the main­
stage level. Saturday Night Live has had casts 
*5 of almost exclusively Second City performers. 
Second City also produces " "hows other 
than SCTV, like a 1979 series cauea “Big City 
Comedy” which featured John Candy, Tino 
Insana, Tim Kazurinsky, and Audrie Neenan. 
The Second City was also partially respon­
sible for movies like Caddyshack and About Last Night, which was based on the David 
Mamet play “Sexual Perversity in Chicago.”
So although the Second City people per­
forming at Graffiti on Saturday aren’t famous 
yet, don’t forget them, because the intense 
training and selectivity of the Second City will 
bring them to the top soon. If they’ve made it 
as far as the touring company, they are cer­
tainly already worth seeing.
The touring show closely resembles the 
home-based show in format but differs in 
material. In Saturday’s show, the majority of 
Second City’s sketches will already be writ­
ten, but not carved in stone. Based on impro­
vised scenes that succeeded in previous 
shows, the sketches grow and bloom as the 
performers rewrite and rehearse them.
Often the humor is highly topical, but the 
comedy ranges from the intellectual to the 
inane, with some concentration on the morbid. 
Sketches may go on for more than five minutes 
and involve actors strategically placed within 
the audience, or end with an abrupt blackout 
after only five seconds. Costumes are reduced 
to the barest necessities, and sets are almost 
entirely imaginary. The most solid thing on­
stage is the skill with which the actors present 
the comedy.
The Second City has been around since be­
fore some of its current performers were even 
bom. In 1959, a vacant Chinese laundry in 
Chicago became the spawning ground for a 
group which would alter the face of American 
comedy forever. The creators were Paul Sills, 
the original artistic director; Bernhard Sahlins, 
the current producer; and performer Howard 
Aik.
In the previous eight years, Sills and Sahlins 
had founded and been involved with a series of 
other theatre and improv groups, including the 
Studebaker Theatre Company and the Com­
pass Players. Through these groups, they had 
discovered and developed the talents of Mike 
Nichols,' Elaine May, Jerry Stiller, Anne 
Meara, Ed Asner, Shelley Berman, Alan 
Arkin, and others.
They trained people in comedy and improvi­
sation, using techniques first developed by 
Sills’ mother, Viola Spolin, who is often her­
alded as the creator of modem theatrical im­
provisation.
As the troupe quickly grew in popularity, it 
moved a few blocks over to Welles Street, 
where The Second City still performs every
night. In 1963, the groups began performing in 
nearby Canada, and in 1973, they set up shop 
in Toronto with a troupe that included un­
knowns Danny Aykroyd, Brian-Doyle Mur­
ray, Joe Flaherty, and Gilda Radner.
Immense popularity demanded more Second 
City shows than the existing troupes could 
handle, and so the Second City Touring 
Company was bom in 1967. Since then, the 
touring company has been routinely rebuilt 
and replenished as actors have moved on. The 
method of replacement and the pattern of
improvisation and writing guaratees that this 
show will be a different one than they pre­
sented last time the Second City touring com­
pany toured. The method of training and devo­
tion of the performers ensure that the show will 
be excellent.
The Second City Touring Company performs at Graffiti at 8 p.m. on Saturday, Aug. 5. Tickets are $9.50 in advance at $11.50 at the door, and are available at Kaufmann s, Heads Together, and Graffiti.
Look for the 
return of Joe 
Bob Briggs in 
next weeks 
Diversions
Sam Maloof:
woodworker
Sponsered by CFA and the Depart­
ment of Design 
Friday September 11,1987 from
10 am to 4:30 pm (with lunchbreak) 
in Mellon Institute Auditorium. 
Mr. Maloof will give a demonstra­
tion workshop on his approach to 
furniture design.
8 pm Breed Hall, MMCH. Mr. 
Maloof will present a slide lecture 
on his work.
For more information, call 268- 
2828.

---------------------------------------------------

Page D6— The Tartan—September 1,1987
Funded by Student Dormitory CouncilBLOOM COUNTY
Êtr\%tKtrAR M~S ÄVE$2.Ö HUMANIST, wepm-pimim/vNG. INSTITUTION- 11WRECKING TLLAGENPA eXC£L- NOTIFYIS ON LENT. MOSCOUSCHEPULE , \ II
..NO POUBT PtSCUSStNGThe sme \0PrMC ItPrÊ OPCN~CCtOIN MEPtA BOARPROOMS ACL AROUNP THE COUNTRY..
600P 
MORNING ANP HAPPY BlRTWAY. 
PNP
mrJOSTLE
MY INTERNAL BOPY PARTS 
MB FORTY YEARS 
OLP
MY 60P-MY CAR WON'T RUN fVR TWO 
MONTHS without 
SOMETHING BUSTINO. 
HOW LONG CAN 
MY LUCK HOUP OUT??
we TOP MUCKY MUCKS
of -me"BLOOM PICAYUNE 
ARe HAVING AN
execuvve
Jjjy\/I
.HI PEUCATE. FRAGILE ORGANS... ALL PUMPING, 
CRAN Km, MURRINO ALONG WITHOUT 
A GLITCH FOR FORTY 
YEARS...
BOY, PtPN'T YA ALWAYS Kim SUSPECT 
AS MUCH*
H-7 FRAGILE ORGANS....CC J\ijX fb MjOfyyj 
RiffM NjXXjiXGG a J\ii\f/ 
TfJMijE TAjJ\TLi WjLTy\f/X
I TO CORRECTLY HAPPeN 
EVERY SeCONP„- \ V-Ki.
EVEN IF 1 CAN Keep IT ALL FROM BURSTING. BREAKING, SPLITTING, SPURTING 
OR CORROPtNO_ 
ru. JUST- ru...
V VCNîy
* POSTMASTER ¦AS MY MOUTH IS PRY FROM TRY/NO TO SWALLOW-me HUN\ MH we StNtr\BETRAYAL OF MY FR/ENPS, THESE STAMPS WERE__ MOISTENEPX WITH( /*" ' TtUSC o
..GET HIT BY A BUS, FALL ON A PTRTY SOUP SPOON ANP CATCH AlPS'r \VU \ UNP6RSTANP.
JUMPIN' JEHOSAPHAT / FINALLY A LETTER 
FROM, OPUS '
OH, GOSH 1 PONT PEAL WITH OVERWHELMING GUILT VERY WELL. ----
HAVING GROWN UP FORCEP TO EAT ROTTING SQUIP FOR MEALS, PENGUINS MAKEPRACnCBP *------MARTYRS, [i ._^ I
YOU KNOW
PRAtNBP OF ALL SELF-RESPECT, I'M AFRA IP THATI HAV6 PRIFTEP TO THEueuER sipe MH %PHtnCÓRANP STAGE-
DEAR MILO,
IT'S ME. YOUR FRtENP OPUS. I AM SAFE 
ANP WORKING
NIGHTLY. I CHEAPEN ANP EXPLOIT MY BOPY BEFORE OTHERS MORE MISERABLE mN ME_ A TAWPRY WALTZ OF LOST SOULS. LONELYARE THE BRAVE. JT*---^ MILO..
ANP YES-The HUMAN BOPY IS UNFRTHOMABLYpeucme in ms awesome
COMPLEXITYL BUT I JUST PONT SEE WHAT 
THOSE TWO FACTS HAVE TO PO WITH EACH 
t OTHER. 'v
MAPAM, I AM 'SHAKING MY BOOTY. " YOU'RE
N R 1NWPUN6.
OKRY RIGHT. YES YOU ARE W YEARS OLP TOPRY
PONT LET IT SHAKE fVP.HANbIN THERE."¦S/6HÎ
HOW. LEVS JUST LOOK 
AT FORTY AS A 771AE FOR A RENEWAL OF 
. / PERSPECTIVE...
LOOK AT THE W0RU7 AS IF ITS BRANP NEW /SEE THINGS AS IF YOU'VE , / NEVER SEEN
THEM BEFORE /
STARTLING. EH ?OUR POOR OPUS ? PEORAPEP ON STAGE ? PAMPERING TO THE TWISTEP FANTASIES OF LONELY WOMEN?..
LETSSTARTYOURBtRThPRY OVER AGAIN, PAP.
EXOTIC PANCINO FOR A 
WOMEN-ONLY 
CLUB IN 
ARIZONA.
YOU 
LOOK LIKE BUCKWHEAT.
\ v^ .
wjLA f/ 
WHAT'S 
HEPOING r
IP
NOPE. WONT PO IT. MY 
CLOTHES STAY ON.ANP LAPIES . . YOU YOUNG
ALL SHOULP BE MAN...
ASHAMEP OF YOUR- LET ME 
SELVES V'n TELL YOU GO i A STORY...XMKtAn.».. \ \ >5
THERE WAS ONCE A WOMAN.. A LONELY WOMAN. 
WITH A LUMP FOR A HUSBANP WHO IGNORE? 
HER ANP REAP 
"PLAYBOY " ANP 
CHEATEP ON HER „ REGULARLYFOR ALMOST f \ |§ 
THIRTY YEARS... Q- 3
ANP NOW, AFTER ALL
yAfXj ejLWXP i Ftmez 
PESERVE JUST ONE LITTLE 
NAUGHTY INPVlMNCE. 
PO YOU KNOW WHAT THAT 
_ IS, YOUNGTT a
UjL/KA\ijP Ly yAj MiOXAPMOPERN OFFICES OF THE TIGHTLY COMPETITIVE -BLOOM PICAYUNE
TO WATCH ME IN MY 
SKIVVIES ?
NO.
TO
SHOOTHIM.
CONSIPER
THEMARKET,
BOSS.
Life in the Frat Lane by William Barnes and Matthew Diamond
11 -¦- 1 1 THIS IS THE STDTO OF 
ft FRMSfMTT...l i-----—I-----1
»
i
iA.
f®fdi $ Hu |
@®S ® Ô©f©0 0©99§9
*
i
4
A i XT - ? T T
I- I +\ -«*................A-.- Jt.........................
A FWrCSNITa OP 
UXHy TCRDITK»...
I UKMIX« IF9427 AtwAo Adt
dASS W*T OS 4re gum **#WOTWlS 
^*<2 9

---------------------------------------------------

September 1,1987—The Tartan—Page D7
© Edward Julius
Answers on page D9
$
collegiate crossword
ACROSS4Goals
1Where one might study Andy Warhol’s5Well-known record label
works (3 wds.)6Well-known king
12Enrollment into college7151 to Caesar
14“Calculus Made Simple,” e.g. (2 wds.)8Prefix meaning milk
16Evaluate9Confused
17Extremely small10___husky
18Follows a recipe direction11Most immediate
19Belonging to Mr. Pacino12Like a sailboat
22Of land measure13Cash register key (2 wds.)
23Meets a poker bet14En___(as a whole)
24___Gay (WW II plane)15Auto racing son of Richard Petty
26Capri, e.g.19Political disorder
27Belonging to Mayor Koch20___cit. (footnote abbreviation)
28Irritate or embitter21Traveled on a Flexible Flyer
30Train for a boxing match24Glorify
31___and the Belmonts25Prospero’s servant in “The Tempest
32Processions28Well-known government agency
35Diet supplement (abbr.)29American league team (abbr.)
38Scottish historian and philosopher30Fictional hypnotist
39College in Greenville, Pa.32Style exemplified by Picasso
40The Venerable___33“She’s___...” (from “Flashdance”)
41“... not with___but a whimper.”34Be unwell
43Return on investment (abbr.)35Visible trace
44Pondered36Think
45Belonging to Mr. Starr37Woman’s undergarment
47Part of the classifieds (2 wds.)38Commit___-kiri
48Possible place to study abroad (2 wds.)40___burner
52Small school in Canton, Ohio (2 wds.)42“... for if I___away ...”
53Orson Wells film classic (2 wds.)44Actress Gibbs
46African antelope
DOWN47Well-known TV band-leader
1Those who are duped49Pince-___(eyeglass type)
2“Do unto___...”501968 film, “___Station Zebra”
3Fourth estate511965 film, “___Ryan’s Express”
n\
o
o
you1 re » o+ere^eq
Were Jso 'eoki,°è ,Ç'V YouVe *,n+eresre? »nU4 ff run^Tni or <irof f^rn 
Tartan c^îce (çk*o 
•H™e -Hite Week.

---------------------------------------------------

Page D8—The Tartan—September 1,1987
manage the public and private funds needed in 
the process.
Heinz Hall and the new Benedum Center 
form the core of a new Cultural District being 
created in downtown Pittsburgh. The district 
is a 12-block area connecting the Convention 
Center to Gateway Center, and reaching from 
Penn Avenue to the Allegheny riverfron^ 
Plans for the new Cultural District are already 
well underway. They include not only the two 
theaters and the new CNG Tower, but a 
people-oriented concentration of additional 
theaters, galleries, housing, restaurants, 
shops, parks, streetscape improvements and 
new parking facilities. The unique income 
stream the Trust derives from commercial 
development, a stream which is projected to 
reach over $1.5 million annually by the mid- 
1990’s, is dedicated to continued development 
of arts projects and historic renovation in the 
district.
When you visit the Benedum center during 
the coming weeks, keep in mind that it is truly 
only the beginning. Soon all the artists, musi­
cians, performers and cultural buffs here on 
campus won’t have to search any farther thaij 
a 61 A, B, or C to take them to a veritable 
cultural playground. Take some time on the 
weekend of September 25th to enjoy what’s 
happening in and around the Benedum — it’ll 
be a good preview of coming attractions.
Look for a chance to 
win free tickets to up- 
comming Benedum 
events in future issues 
of The Tartan
The Magic of the Stanley Theatre is preserved in the Benedum Center
continued from page D1
reminiscent of the Palace of Versailles, 
enormous crystal chandeliers and elegant 
marble staircases lent an air of splendor. 
Through the years, the fanciful plaster designs 
and original colors were covered by several re­
paintings and damaged by the 1936 flood, 
when water came within two feet of the bal­
cony. When the theater closed in 1984 for 
restoration, 56 years of use and recent “mod­
ernizations” had dulled the Stanley’s original 
grandeur.
One of the largest and most demanding jobs 
was the repair and replacement of the 
Stanley’s extensive plaster ornamentation. 
“Every inch of the entire building has been 
gone over,” Flloni said. “ We started at the 
ceiling and worked our way down all the walls, 
piece by piece by piece.” Plasterers made 
latex casts of all decorative elements and re­
produced replacements from the casts. When 
originals were too badly damaged for casting, 
or ruined completely, clay models were fash­
ioned. “It’s incredible how much work this 
takes,” Filoni said. He estimated the 15-man 
plaster crew has been working for almost a 
year and have completed over 1,000 separate 
casts.
Plasterers remade the auditorium’s 37-foot 
w ide ornamental dome, which features elabo­
rate octagonal coffers, rosettes, and back light­
ing. A special plaster core which drives sound 
from the ceiling back down to the audience 
was added to the dome to enhance acoustics. 
Another dramatic and important acoustical 
change is the addition of a unique proscenium 
shell to the Benedum stage. Designed by 
Theodore J. Shultz, the shell is entirely wood 
and comprised of many doors, each of which 
can be angled for maximum sound reflection 
throughout the house. Historians permitted 
the new structure to be built only after the 
original proscenium — virtually hidden from
Craig Karges just doesn’t entertain an 
audience, he captivates them! Craig will 
keep you on the edge of your seat by 
demonstrating mind reading, blindfold 
vision, prediction and some of the wildest 
demonstrations of mind over matter that 
you can imagine, using total audience 
participation!
CRAIG KARGESHE KNOWS YOG’LL BE THERE!
Can He Read Your Mind?
Audience Participation
original marquee was 
replaced by a more 
utilitarian version in 
1951 after a bombing 
of the box office.
While audiences 
luxuriate in the 
1920’s ambiance, 
technicians and per- 
formers will enjoy 
Pilobolus Dance Theatre 1990’s support facili­
ties equal to any in the country. The Stanley re­
ceived a new six-story support building con­
taining state-of-the-art backstage accommo­
dations. The stage itself is undergoing a dra­
matic expansion making it the third largest 
stage house area in the country. Two stage­
sized rehearsal halls, fifteen new dressing 
rooms, computerized light systems, new 
sound systems, and a stage floor ideally suited 
for dancers have all been installed.
custom woven in cut velour and dyed a rich 
burgundy. A French tapestry will band the 
lower edge, and 27 inches of hand-made sca- 
lamandre fringe (the same style found on the 
“gold curtain” at Metropolitan Opera House) 
will hang from the bottom.
A completely remade Seventh Avenue mar­
quee was hoisted into place during July. 
Restored by the Wagner Sign Company, the 
marquee features 1,085 chaser lights and a 
decorative central medallion. The Stanley’s
view— was completely restored.
“All the columns and capitals are plaster,” 
said Bill King, head plasterer still at work in 
the theater. “Even the exit signs are plaster, 
and so are the griffins that form the grillwork 
in front of the speakers. This job has been a 
special job to plasterers,” King said. “Wanting 
to work on this job is like a violinist wanting to 
play a Stradivarius — the ultimate.”
Painters have also spent many hours restor­
ing original colors and gilding to the plaster 
ornamentation, in­
cluding the complex 
auditorium ceiling 
dome. “It's a bit tedi­
ous to paint all those 
little flowers and 
vines and whatnot, 
but it’s not difficult,”
Head Painter Dale 
Arnold says. He esti­
mates painters have 
applied between three and four miles of gilt on 
the ceiling alone.
Freelance artist Celeste Parrendo restored 
the theater’s large lobby and auditorium mu­
rals, many of which had been badly damaged. 
Parrendo, who worked six weeks perched on 
scaffolding, discovered nymphs, elegant re­
peating floral patterns and many delicate de­
signs. “ I looked everywhere for a signature— 
for some idea of painted the originals. I 
couldn’t find anything, although I’m sure the 
same person painted all the murals. The tech­
nique was very consistent.”
In addition, approximately 90 chandeliers 
and wall fixtures have been restored by a 
specialist. The largest chandelier for the audi­
torium dome is made up of over 500,000 
crystal pieces and weighs six tons. Benedum 
Center’s 75-foot wide by 27-foot high curtain 
will be one of the last major interior features to 
be installed. The curtain’s main fabric was
The spectacular renovation of the Stanley 
Theatre is only the first step in a multi-phase 
plan to pump new cultural life into 
Pittsburgh’s downtown area. The Allegheny 
Conference on Community Development 
sponsored a major planning and design analy­
sis of the Penn/Liberty area which resulted in 
strategic objectives for cultural growth. The 
Pittsburgh Trust for Cultural Resources was 
established to accomplish these goals and

---------------------------------------------------

September 1,1987—The Tartan—Page D9
jCarnegie Mellon Art Gallery to Show Photojournalism Exhibit
PITTSBURGH—”On the Line: The New 
Color Photojournalism,” an exhibition of 
color photographs organized by the Walker 
Art Center in Minneapolis, will be shown 
Sept. 13-Nov. 8 at the Carnegie Mellon Uni­
versity Art Gallery. ~
A review in The New York Times describes 
the “provocative exhibition” as confronting 
¦"Hie question of whether photojournalism is art 
or “merely reporting.” In addition, says Times 
writer Grace Blueck, “the exhibition is meant
to make clear that whether or not the new 
photojournalism can be construed as ‘art,’ it 
has been deeply affected by the devices, 
strategems and exploratory freedom of con­
temporary painting as well as those of art 
photography.”
Photographs in the exhibit portray scenes 
ranging from friendly, small-town vignettes 
to chilling war sequences. They have ap­
peared in publications such as Life, Time, The 
New York Times Magazine, The London
Pgh. Center for the Arts:Clay and Glass Exhibit on Sept. 12
Pittsburgh — The exhibition Drawn to the 
Surface: Artists in Clay and Glass opens at the 
Pittsburgh Center for the Arts on Saturday, 
September 12,1987 with a members’ preview 
from 6:00 to 9:00 p.m. The exhibition will be 
held at the Center through October 11 and 
selections from the exhibition will continue in 
the Commons Room Gallery through Novem­
ber 1. Drawn to the Surface: Artists in Clay and 
Glass is presented in conjunction with the city- 
wide collaboration, “Drawing the Pittsburgh 
^Connection” sponsored by the Frick Art 
Museum. Throughout Pittsburgh this fall, 
nineteen organizations will explore the me­
dium of drawing.
Drawn to the Surface: Artists in Clay and 
Glass, organized by Sande Deitch, Acting 
Executive Director, includes works by 
twenty-one national, international and re­
gional artists who use a myriad of techniques 
s<to produce designs and imagery on the malle­
able and dimensional surfaces of clay and 
glass. The combination of the “visual lan­
guage of drawing” with these materials pro­
duces an exciting interaction between drawn 
image and complex form. Clay and glass 
suggest problems and procedures quite differ­
ent from traditional drawing materials. Some 
artists choose to incise, others to paint, and for 
n^lass, many modem techniques are possible to 
produce a finished piece.
Historical precedents abound for the use of 
clay and glass for drawing. Drawing on clay 
dates back to prehistoric times, while the use 
of stained glass windows gained popularity 
during the middle ages. Today, the study of 
ancient shards of clay and glass helps us to
Sunday Times, Fortune, and Paris Match.
Also being shown Sept. 13-Nov. 8 at the 
gallery will be the exhibition “Drawings from 
the ’80s,” a collection of works created by 
approximately 40 well-known and emerging 
artists—including painters and sculptors—
during the 1980s.
The Carnegie Mellon University Art Gal­
lery, 407 S. Craig., is open 10 a.m.-5 p.m., 
Tuesday-Friday; 11 a.m.-5 p.m., Saturday; 
and 1-4 p.m., Sunday. For more information 
call 268-3110.
reconstruct and interpret the past, for the calli­
graphic marks and symbols on these materials 
are as informative as written records.
In their art, these twenty-one contemporary 
artists communicate their inner feelings about 
themselves and their attitudes about society. 
The materials of clay and glass are the medium 
through which the artist records and transmits 
his/her message. Drawn to the Surface: Artists 
in Clay and Glass focuses our attention on 
contemporary artists who use these age-old 
materials.
This exhibition has been funded by grants 
from the Helen Clay Frick Foundation, the 
Pennsylvania Council on the Arts, the H. John 
Heinz III Charitable Trust and individual 
donors. For more information on Drawn to the 
Surface: Artists in Clay and Glass, contact the 
Pittsburgh Center for the Arts at (412) 361- 
0873. _________
puzzle answers from page D7
?naranrann fiBBiisirannnrannin BEiEinonmci aaa era
Is just around the comer
OCT 10
H
m
Friends
Need special aixiares? Well get them! 
Hotel space? - We’ve got it!-Let us pull all their arrangements 
together
FORBES TRAVEL
Z2999
or (412) 321 -9700 
a CMU authorized agency-
WANT — NEED A COMPUTER?
(monitor not included)
EXCEL COMPUTERS locally manufactures IBM compatible PC/XT, PC/TURBO, PC/AT computers and offers them at fantastic savings.
Help yourself:
— Earn better grades
— Distinguish your work
— Eliminate waiting in line for terminals
PC/XT Compatto, 4.77 MHz, 256 KB RAM, 360 KB 8:453 AT style keyboard and case, monochrome gaphics or CGA color 
card wNi printer port.
SiperTutbo PC, 10 MHz (Moe tie speecQ, 512 KB RAM 360 KB Drive, AT style keyboard and case, monochrome graphics or 
CGA odor card wflh printer port, 8 in 1 software, 10 Diskette^ Computer paper, Desktop 50 Distaste Case witi lock
286 AT, 1Q€MHz (6-10 times faster), 512 I® RAM 1-2 Msg Drive, keyboard and case, monochrome graphics or CGA color 
card wih printer port.
20 MsgObyte Hard Drive instelsd
high Resolution monochorome monitor
CGA color monitor
Modem 1200/300 BAUD internal wtft software instated 
10025 CPS Near Latter Quaity dot Maftix printer
£*CM
SERIES2000
Oakland 
Showroom 
M-F 10-4'STOP IN OR CALL TODAY No-Hi"‘foc,ory
I 4415 Fifth Ave. J'WMi&ki Webster Hall
Ground Floor682-2700
and Showroom
MF 10-7
3283 Babcock Blvd.
367-4320

---------------------------------------------------

Page DIO—The Tartan—September 1,1987
Classifieds
Jobs/Wanted
Child Care / Housekeeper. Looking for person or 
couple to live in our large Shadyside home to help 
care for 6 mo. old. Walking distance to CMU. Non- 
smoker, child care experience preferred. 683-4886.
Telephone Sales: Part time position 6-9:30 p.m. 
Call from our Shadyside office for non-profit or­
ganization. 6-10 positions. 363-4953 - afternoons.
Paid internship, phone work, car helpful. If inter­
ested, ask for Mike King at 781-3600.
Housing
House for sale: Oakland, newer 2 story brick, 3 
bedrooms, integral garage. Quiet street, move-in 
condition. Minutes from university. 681-6604.
For Sale
Matt Boards, 50% off. Professional quality. 
Selling entire stock! The Essex, comer of Forbes 
and Meyran Aves, Oakland. 681 -1944.
Books! New bookstore with large collection of 
independent, alternative, theatrical, and literary 
books. Also new jazz and new age tapes and CD’s. 
St. Elmo’s, 2214 East Carson St, South Side. Take 
54C bus from Oakland. 431-9100. Open until 9.
FLOWERS FOR SALE...Craig and Bayard Sts. 
Rose bouquet $3.95, mixed bouquet $3.25. 
ALEX’S FLOWERS 687-4128. Delivery 687- 
4128.
Misc
Parties...Parties...Parties
We have everything for your party at Papermart - 
One stop party shopping. Halloween, X-mas, New 
Year’s, and much more. Over 10,000 square feet of 
party. Party favors, decorations, and a wide variety 
of novelties. Close to campus - Morewood Avenue 
at Baum. 681-8900.
rClassified Order Form
Please run the following classified ad in the next____ issues of The Tartan.
?
Enclose payment (check or cash) according to the rates below
1 -20 words $3.00 / week 
21-50words $5.00/week 
50+ words $8.00 / week
Name — 
Address
Phone
L
Joe Bob Returns Next Week
FRESH STOCK
USED BOORS AT BARGAIN PRICES
BRYN MAWR-VASSAR BOOKSTORE 
4612 Winthrop Street, Oakland (ott Craig) 
Tuesday through Saturday, 10:00 AM - 4:00 PM
NEW SEASON BEGINS SEPTEMBER 1
Computer Science 
Early Masteries 
15 lxx
(to either Place-out or Retake)
will be offered
September 5th & 
October 4th
Signup sheets available 
at the tutors' desk in Wean 5419
(you may only sign up for ONE session)
SERIES 7
EDDIE — Business Pre-Med 
Sophomore who rides red BMW 
from Long Island. Attended Au­
gust Longman class. Gave you 
lift to Penn Station without get­
ting your number. Call me — 
Valerie (201) 567-9825.
there is stitutefor
After vou’re done with 
school, you face one of 
the hardest lessons in life;
Without experience, 
it’s tough to get a job. And 
without a job, it’s tough to 
get experience.
At The W&ll Street _ 
Journal, we recognize that expe­
rience is something vou don’t 4 
start earning until alter graduation.
But while you’re waiting, we can 
give you a head start by providing 
some of the same competitive 
advantages that experience brings.
For instance, our wide-ranging 
news coverage gives you a clearer 
understanding of the whole complex world of business.
Our tightly focused feature re­
porting prepares you for your more 
specific ambitions—whether in 
management, accountir«, finance, 
technology, marketing or small business.
And our in-depth analysis helps you formulate your ideas in a 
sharper and more persuasive way.
= »1-
Call 800-257-1200,* Ext 1066
or mail the coupon-and start your subscription to The W&ll Street 
Journal at student savings of up 
to $48 off the regular subscrip tion price.
Thai’s a pretty generous offer. 
Especially when you consider 
what it actually represents.
Tuition for the real world.
ITo subscribe, call 800-257-1200?! 
I Ext 1066 toll-free.I WAMl'lS ^ W*MS're»' J«*™1 5003rd A« W Sean*I t3Sendmeonr ytar of ThrMUIScret Journal for S&-«I ^ **#<#'*' rrgHlartHlHrrtpluH pmrI n »¦'*•<» fcf *26 ? Pay mm mckaed.¦ ? Bill me later
.Grad Month/Year_
The ViàO Street Journal|74SNT ^g<^v ****? American **"*”"20001
•In Pennsylvania, call 800-222-3380. Ext 1066***** Dow Jo«*» è Company Inc
I

---------------------------------------------------

September 1,1987—The Tartan—Page Dll
Calendar
President Richard M. Cyert will have open 
office hours for students between 2:30 and 
5:00 p.m. in his office, 602 Warner Hall, on 
Wednesday, October 7. Students who wish 
to meet with the president should telephone his 
secretary at 268-2200 to set up an appoint- 
* ment.
The Downtown YWCA is sponsoring Home 
Health Aide Training. For supervised training 
in theory demonstration and CPR call 391- 
5100. The sessions beging September 21 and 
last for three weeks.
Mother’s Day Out. All women, especially 
mothers with preschool children ages four 
months up to kindergarten age can enjoy the 
Mother’s Day Out program. It will be held for 
10 weeks on Tuesdays beginning September 
22. Classes for the women include aerobics, 
childrens literature, cooking, stenciling and 
many more. For more information call 361 - 
3951.
Patricia Bellan-Gillien presents her works, 
silkscreens, paintings and drawings at the 
Hewlett Gallery, College of Fine Arts, 1st 
c floor, through September 19. Gallery hours 
are: 11 am - 4 pm, Tuesday through Saturday 
and 1 pm - 4 pm, Sunday.
Buhl Science Center.Galaxy. Take a fascinating tour of the 
universe! Explore its entire history on the 
scale of one year, investigate the Milky Way 
and other types of galaxies, discover how 
scientists learn about them and what kinds 
exist; at 2 pm, Monday through Thursday; 2 
pm, 4:30 pm and 7 pm, Friday; 11 am, 2 pm 
and 4:15 pm, Saturday; and 2 pm and 4 pm, 
Sunday; through September 8. For more in­
formation call 321-4300.Laserium. Journey to an energetic and 
colorful world where blazing lights and magi­
cal images glow and gyrate to music by rock’s 
most spectacular artists in Laserium, pre­
sented live under the stars at 8 pm and 9:15 pm, 
Thursday through Sunday; and 3 pm, Satur­
day. For current concerts call 321-5554.Sounds Sensational. Explore the phenom­
ena of sound with this brand new Buhl origi­
nal. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm-5 pm, Monday 
through Thursday, 1 pm - 9:30 pm, Friday; 10 
am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday. j The Right Moves. You’re the star per­
former in Buhl’s action-packed exhibit ex­
ploring the body in motion! Permanent exhibit 
at 1 pm - 5 pm, Monday through Thursday, 1 
pm - 9:30 pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; 
and 1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday.Batter Up. Become a Pirates’ batting 
coach and help Johnny Ray hit a homer! This 
original interactive video is the newest addi­
ction to the popular “The Right Moves.” Per­
manent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 pm, Monday 
through Thursday, 1 pm - 9:30 pm, Friday; 10 
am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday.Color. Nineteen do-it-yourself modules 
explore the mysteries behind every color 
phenomena. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm-5 pm, 
Monday through Thursday, 1 pm - 9:30 pm, 
Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 1 pm - 5 
(#pm, Sunday.Bio Corner. Interact with newly-hatched 
chicks — new ones hatching each week. 
Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 pm, Monday 
through Thursday, 1 pm - 9:30 pm, Friday; 10 
am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday.Image Imagination. Hands-on modules 
explore amazing images — let your imagina­
tion run wild! Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 
ypm, Monday through Thursday, 1 pm - 9:30 
pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 1 pm
- 5 pm, Sunday.Foucault Pendulum. Displays proof of 
Earth’s rotation! Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 
5 pm, Monday through Thursday, 1 pm - 9:30 
pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 1 pm
- 5 pm, Sunday.
Observatory. View the many celestial 
wonders visible in the summer night shy. 
Friday evenings, weather permitting.
JHiesday
Movies
Barry Lyndon, starring Ryan O’Neal. 4 
Oscars for this beautifully photographed film 
about an 18th century man who wants success. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm. Admission 
$2.95.
What’s New Pussycat?, starring Peter 
O’Toole, Peter Sellers and Woody Allen. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7 pm and 9 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Lectures
MEMS Staff Seminar. Dr. Malcolm Stocks, 
Oak Ridge National Laboratory, speaks on 
“Modem Theory of the Electronic Structure 
and Phase Stability of Alloys” at 3 pm in WeH 
7500. Informal discussions and refreshments 
follow in WeH 2325.
^Wednesday
Movies
Batman, starring Adam West and Burt Ward. 
West and Ward do battle with the evil Riddler, 
Penguin and Joker in this adventure film. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Interiors, starring Diane Keaton and E. G. 
Marshall. A serious and disturbing view of the 
breakup of a family. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7 pm and 9 pm. Admission $2.95.
^Thursday
Movies
The Trip to Bountiful, starring Geraldine 
Page (Oscar Winner). Page is excellent in this 
film about a woman who wants to escape her 
drab existence. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 
pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95. 
Interiors, starring Diane Keaton and E. G. 
Marshall. A serious and disturbing view of the 
breakup of a family. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7 pm and 9 pm. Admission $2.95.
Bliss, sponsored by AB Films. DH 2210 at 6 
pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and midnight. Admission $ 1.
^Friday
steady introduction of the Andrew worksta­
tions and the ways in which other computers 
such as Apple Macintoshes and IBM PC’s are 
part of the system. Hamburg Hall Auditorium 
at 3:30 pm.
Music
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra performs 
at the Middle Road Stage at 7:30 pm. Admis­
sion is free. For more information call 767- 
9200.
C Saturday
Movies
Ishtar, starring Warren Beatty and Dustin 
Hoffman. Beatty and Hoffman yuk it up as a 
pair of untalented singers as they get mixed up 
in North African intrigue. Watch for the 
camel. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm, 9:30 
pm and 11:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Love and Death, starring Woody Allen and 
Diane Keaton. Zany spoof of Russian litera­
ture. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7 pm, 9 pm and 
11 pm. Admission $2.95.
After Hours, sponsored by SDC Films. DH 
2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and midnight. 
Admission $1.
Music
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra performs 
at the Middle Road Stage at 7:30 pm. Admis­
sion is free. For more information call 767- 
9200.
^Sunday
Movies
Stop Making Sense. Excellent concert film 
featuring the Talking Heads singing 16 songs. 
With David Byme. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95. 
Everything You Always Wanted to Know 
About Sex...But Were Afraid to Ask. A 
series of tales about sex. Pittsburgh Playhouse 
at 7 pm and 9 pm. Admission $2.95.
Pink Flamingos, sponsored by AB Films. DH 
2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and midnight. 
Admission $1.
Music
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra performs 
at the Middle Road Stage at 7:30 pm. Admis­
sion is free. For more information call 767- 
9200.
H Monday
Movies
The Graduate, starring Dustin Hoffman and 
Anne Bancroft. Landmark American film 
about a young man’s rite of passage. Pitts­
burgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:40 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Everything You Always Wanted to Know 
About Sex...But Were Afraid to Ask. A
series of tales about sex. Pittsburgh Playhouse 
at 7 pm and 9 pm. Admission $2.95.
Music
Tamburitzans perform at the Middle Road 
Stage at 7:30 pm. Admission is free. For more 
information call 767-9200.
Calendar Submissions
If you wish to place an announcement, miscella­
neous item, or event in The Tartan, send it to 
Campus Calendar / University Relations / 
Carnegie Mellon University / Pittsburgh, PA 
15213. Send it by campus mail to the above 
address or drop it off at 5017 Forbes Ave (The
house between AY and ATQ).Please include the following information when 
submitting events: Title of event, sponsor, brief 
description, location, date, and time. In addition, 
include the name and phone number of the 
person submitting the entry; this information will 
be used only to confirm the event.
The Tartan is not responsible for the accuracy 
or validity of any Event listing. In addition, it 
reser\'es the right to edit or omit any listing for 
publication.
All events are free of charge and open to the 
general CMU student population unless 
otherwise noted.
Deadline for Calendar submissions is Wednes­
day at 5 pm for the next weeks issue.
The Tartan 
staff wishes to 
thank Brian for 
all of his help 
Sunday night.
And thanks for 
cleaning the mice!
Movies
Blue Velvet, starring Dennis Hopper and Isa­
bella Rossellini. Remarkable David Lynch 
film about evil doings in a small town. Pitts­
burgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm, 9:40 pm and 
11:50. Admission $2.95.
Love and Death, starring Woody Allen and 
Diane Keaton. Zany spoof of Russian litera­
ture. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7 pm, 9 pm and 
11 pm. Admission $2.95.
Crimes of the Heart, sponsored by AB Films. 
DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and midnight. 
Admission $ 1.
Lectures
Academic Computing Seminar. Computing 
at Carnegie Mellon—A Progress Report. This 
talk describes progress in developing the new 
computing environment known as Andrew- 
Plus. Technical issues covered include the 
campus network, the network file system, the
LA
STUDENT DISCOUNT
The Philip Pdisi salons offer great savings 
to students. Get the internationally acclaimed 
Volumetric® haircut and related services for just
$14.95 0
(Men and Women)
- ¦ •
Every haircut appointment includes consultation, 
shampooing, conditioning, blow dry and styling.
Present your student ID to receive your discount. Not valid 
with any other offer and does not include a haircut by 
Philip Pelusi.
Squirrel Hill 521-1200
One Oxford Centre 261-6550
Century III Mall 655-1940 A<1Village Square Mall 833-6770 
Westmoreland Mall 836-6670 
Ross Park Mall 366-1555
Open E^nings a*XJ SuncJOys (No* open Sunday Otcxd So

---------------------------------------------------

INA
NCdpg
4GKA
PARTI
QÂUniv ersnety yCHoClMCa
CAREER DEVELOPMENT (Clarifying your Objective).......919187 4:30-5:30pm Skibo 13
RELAXATION TECHNIQUES...................................9110187 4:30-5:30pm Wherrett Rm Skibo
MOVIE "BREAKING AWAY"......................................9116187 8pm Doherty Hall 2210
VIDEOS "AIDS" (Reducing the Risk)...............................9117/87 12:00-12:35 pmWherrett Rm Skibo
AUCTION (Benefit Hunger Svcs. Network)...........................9119187 12:00-5:00pm Skibo Lot
VIDEOS "AIDS" (Reducing the Risk)...............................9121/87 12:00-12:35pmWherrett Rm. Skibo
CAREER RESOURCES (Exploring the Career Resource Library).......9124/87 5:00-6:00pm Warner Hall 19
VIDEOS "AIDS" (Sex, Drugs & AIDS)..................................912518712:00-12:35pm Wherrett Rm Skibo
MOVIE "REAL GENIUS".....................................................9/30/87 8:00pm Doherty Hall 2210
TUTORING (Choosing the right academic track)..............................9/30/87 4:30-5:30pm Skibo 12
AEROBICS BEGIN (Choose to be fit)........................................Wk of 9/15/87 M-W-F 7:30-8:15am
Fri/Sun 6:30-7:30pm (Small Gym)
COMING ATTRACTIONS
Next Months Theme ............."MAKING IT WELL"Where? ............................EVERYWHERE_ . .Presented by: Division of Student Affairs and Career Services and Placement
.........................................................................................................................................................

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Page F2—The Tartan Football Supplement—September 1,1987
1987 Tartan 
Football Preview
Editor in Chief 
Managing Editor 
Business Manager 
Sports Editor 
Supplement Editors
Russ Seligman 
Dave Levy 
Mark Benish 
Stew Levine 
John Friedmann 
Neil Greenblum
Photos by Andy Gillespie
The 1987 Tartan Football Preview is a publica­
tion of The Tartan, published by the students of 
Carnegie Mellon University.
The staff extends its thanks to Carnegie Mellon 
and PAC Sports Information Director Bruce 
Gerson for his assistance with this issue.
The Schedule
September 2Allegheny College1:30 pm
September 14Case Western Reserve2:00 pm
September 26At Duquesne7:00 pm
October 3At John Carroll2:00 pm
October 10Hiram (Homecoming)2:00 pm
October 17At Thiel2:00 pm
October 24At Grove City College1:30 pm
October 31Washington & Jefferson1:30 pm
November 7Bethany College1:30 pm
November 14Washington University1:30 pm
Carnegie Mellon University ¦ Case Western Reserve University • University o* Chicago • Emory University
Johns HopKms University New Ybrk University • University o( Rochester ¦ Washington University n St. Lows
The Polls: PAC 
Predictions
PAC Coaches Poll
1. Washington & Jefferson College
2. Carnegie Mellon University
3. Hiram College
4. Grove City College
5. John Carroll University
6. Bethany College
7. Thiel College
PAC Media Poll
1. Washington and Jefferson College
2. Carnegie Mellon University
3. Hiram College
4. Grove City College
5. John Carroll University
6. Bethany College
7. Thiel College

---------------------------------------------------

September 1,1987—The Tartan Football Supplement—Page F3
The Offense
By JOHN FRIEDMANNSupplement Editor
In the past, Carnegie Mellon has lived and 
died with the run. But the man who has been 
receiving all the preseason ink on the Tartans 
is quarterback Mike Hensel.
Hensel is the veteran sparkplug of the Carne­
gie Mellon offense. He adds more dimensions 
to the offense than a straight passer could, with 
his use of the option and his willingness to take 
the ball himself. Touted as a potential All- 
America selection last year, his 1986 season 
was ended prematurely by injury. But he 
appears back in his old form in 1987 and ready 
to lead the Tartan offense.
And this is a year that offensive coordinator 
Rich Erdelyi can use Mike Hensel. Departed 
are standout rushers Mike Minjock and Tim 
Denmeade, the former mainstays of the 
ground game. The offensive line is the young­
est in recent memory, and receivers Roy Ter- 
esky and Mike Behling are gone. The offense 
isn’t bad, it just needs the spark Mike Hensel 
can provide.
But the fact that Hensel is back at quarterback 
is an anomaly. His class has graduated, but he 
has yet more classes to take due to a switch 
from mechanical engineering to industrial 
management. Even though he was scheduled 
to be here for five years, his football career was 
almost ended by injury. The damage to his 
neck, suffered in game three versus the 
Duquesne Dukes last year, was originally 
thought to be the finish of his football antics. 
But he was cleared to play this year, and is 
hopefully ready to pick up where he left off 
eleven months ago.
If injuries should befall Hensel again, his 
replacements would most likely be Chris 
Claflin, a senior who helped fill in last year, or 
Lazio Buda, a junior quarterback and punter. 
Worthy of mention is freshman Stan Younger. 
Younger, an ex-marine just starting at CMU, is 
in good condition and has a strong arm, but is 
rusty due to a long layoff from scholastic 
football. Also highly touted is Brian Porsh- 
insky, a freshman field general from Colum­
bus, Ohio.
The primary returning rusher is fullback 
Chris Hansen , who captured the job last year
Quarterback Mike Hensel will return to lead the Tartan offense again this season.
as a sophomore when Anthony Collaros was 
injured. Hansen should carry the ball plenty 
this season and is ably backed up by Eric 
Polkis, a sophomore who has looked good this 
fall.
Another veteran is Billy Heiser. The versatile 
senior has played several positions during his 
time at Carnegie Mellon, but seems to have 
finally settled into the left halfback spot. He 
also catches the ball well, as evidenced by his
19 receptions last year. Although bothered by 
a pair of minor injuries during the pre-season, 
he should be ready to go by the opener versus 
Allegheney. Dean Garofola, shifted from 
quarterback in the offseason, is second on the 
depth chart and seems to have adjusted very 
well to the change in positions.
The right halfback spot is more open, how­
ever. Speedy Chris Trumble was pencilled in 
as the pre-season starter, but is hurting from a 
rib injury. Returning soon, he will battle Rob 
Patterson, another sophomore, for the starting 
nod.
Worthy of note among the freshmen is Fran 
Bellante, if for nothing more than his size 
alone. The newcomer out of Central Catholic 
is listed as 5’9", 225 pounds, unusual dimen­
sions for a Tartan rusher. Head coach Lackner 
has indicated that Bellante’s optimal playing 
weight could be closer to 205 pounds, how­
ever.
The offensive line is the site of wholesale 
change in 1987. Departed are starting stal­
warts Marc Muster, David Merrigan, Neal 
Shipley and Ed Gallager. The leader on the 
1987 line is co-captian and guard Mike Co- 
lucci, who earned a starting job as a sopho­
more but sat out almost all of last season with 
a foot injury. The senior seems to be fully 
recovered, and a strong performance out of 
one the few veteran linemen is needed. Back­
ing him up is Terry Graham, a junior who has 
seen limited action. At the other guard spot is 
Russ Hahn, one of five starting sophomores. 
Hahn is big at 6’3" and 240 pounds and should 
be an able replacement for the graduated Ed
Gallager.
The tackles are also new for 1987. Large 
(5’11", 250 lbs) Brian Mikol replaces the 
almost equally bulky Neal Shipley, but is 
another unproven sophomore. In the same 
position is Doug Cervenak, who takes over at 
right tackle. Cervenak and Mikol are key men 
for the Tartans, since behind them are only 
freshmen.
Starting center Kai Mebust returns, at least 
in theory. Mebust's knee has been bothering 
him, and he recently underwent arthroscopic 
theory, sidelining him at least until game two. 
Until them, sophomore Gale King and junior 
Tom Denmeade will battle for the start, with 
King given the edge.
Penn-Trafford High School graduates 
dominate the receiving corps. The speedy 
Mike Beresford, a P-T boy who caught three 
passes for 58 yards as a freshman is the starter 
at split end. Also expected to see substantial 
time is senior Joe Mancuso, recruited out of 
the IM leagues three years ago. Starting tight 
end Tim Kelly is hurt for several weeks, so 
until then fellow Penn-Trafford grad Marty 
Stovar, a solid 6’ and 200 pounds, takes over 
the primary role. This also moves Gary Gojso- 
vich, another sophomore up a rung on the 
ladder.
Sophomore Mike Beresford will handle the 
kickoff returns for the second straight year. As 
a freshman, he returned 12 kicks for 298 yards. 
DB Bill Cramer, who used to play on the 
offensive side of the ball, will bring back punts 
as he 21 times last year.
The incumbent kickers return in the form of 
punter Laszlo Buda and placekicker Jim 
Kelly, both juniors. Both were adequate last 
year, but could see challenges if anyone does 
well in the pre-season. Kelly could face the 
more difficult competition, coming from Bill 
Truschel, a highly-rated freshman kicker out 
ofWPIAL powerhouse Gateway High School 
in Monroeville.
Although at least one letterman returns at 
every postion, depth is the Tartans’ primary 
problem. The team is solid, but if injuries take 
their toll, the CMU offense could be in deep 
trouble. The offense is very young and will 
make mistakes, but is capable if all the parts 
remain intact.
Fullback Chris Hansen is Carnegie Mellon's top returning rusher.
Offensive Coordinator Rich Erdelyi

---------------------------------------------------

Page F4—The Tartan Football Supplement—September 1,1987
The Defense
By NEIL GREENBLUMSupplement Editor
The Tartans yielded 90 points in their last 
three games in 1986. an astounding number 
considering the Plaid Curtain gave up only 64 
points the entire 1983 campaign. Inconsis­
tency and an occasional lack of intensity were 
problems last year that Lackner needs to cor­
rect this season.
m
Linebacker Chris Haupt had 50 tackles last
season.
Defensive Coordinator Terry Bodnar returns 
in 1987 with 18 lettermen, seven starters, and 
the multiple-50 defense. Carnegie Mellon 
switched to the traditional 4-3 (pro-style) 
alignment last year after using the 5 down 
linemen - 2 linebacker setup thatwon for them 
in the early 1980’s. But the Tartans never 
really looked comfortable in the 4-3; it wasn’t 
suited to the squad's personnel and style of 
play.
Seniors Bryan Roessler, Chris Haupt, and 
Bill Kerr spearhead the Tartans' front five on 
the defensive line.
Roessler. a nose tackle from Baldwin, had 36 
tackles and three sacks and will be starting for 
the third consecutive year. Roessler was also 
second-team Academic All-America and 
first-team District II Academic All-America. 
North Hills native 
Haupt was the fifth-leading tackier in 1986 
with 50 stops, and the first-team District II 
Academic All-American will switch back to 
defensive end after playing outside linebacker 
in the old 4-3. Kerr, a defensive tackle who 
attended West Greene HS, added 20 tackles 
and three sacks last season.
With the graduation of second-team all-PAC 
selection Tom Frost, junior Ed Yurkovich will 
inherit the starting job at left defensive end. 
Yurkovich. also from Baldwin, had 27 tackles 
in a part-time role. At left tackle, held last year 
by the now graduated Ken Harris, the situation 
is unclear.
Tony Mozeleski led the Tartans in sacks two 
years ago but missed the 1986 season for 
academic reasons. He was ready to play this 
year but then transferred to John Carroll at the 
last minute. Peters Township HS alumnus Joe 
Casilli, a sophomore, has been bothered by a 
shoulder problem, and will have to battle 
classmate Ray Crouthers, a Canon-McMillan
High School alum who played linebacker in 
1986, and freshman Bob O’Toole for the start­
ing job.
Jason Dowdy, a sophomore from Norwin HS 
who had five tackles in 1986, will backup 
Roessler while Elizabeth-Forward HS gradu­
ate Carlos Rodriguez, only a freshman, will 
backup Kerr. Juniors Tom Moul (five tackles 
last year) and Jim Camp (four tackles in 1986) 
will play behind Haupt, and sophs J.D. 
Heskamp and Jim Balouris will backup 
Yurkovich.
Ron Orie, a co-captain, second-team all­
conference pick and perennial leader of the 
defense has graduated. So has Dan Lankitus.
1986 starter Gerry Bosch has moved to the 
secondary. What does that leave for lineback­
ers? Senior Rick LaValle and a couple of 
sophomores.
LaValle, a senior from Bethel Park, had 23 
tackles last season and will move inside after 
playing outside linebacker his first three years. 
Allison Park’s Alex Hoffman had 17 tackles a 
year ago and David Skinner had 14 stops as 
part-timers; they’ll both be fighting with 
LaValle for the two starting jobs. Sophomore 
Rob Keller also would have figured here but 
he's out for the season with back problems. A 
host of freshmen linebackers will support the 
combination of LaValle, Skinner and 
Hoffman.
The great defensive back experiment worked 
last year. Senior Billy Cramer switched from 
running back to comerback last year and made 
first-team all-PAC in addition to earning 
honorable mention Pizza Hut All-America 
honors. His three interceptions tied him for the 
team lead with Rob Arthur. His 58 tackles 
were third-best on the Tartans in 1986, includ­
ing 41 solo stops. He even caused a fumble. 
Pretty good for a man who weighs barely 160 
lbs.
Arthur will return at free safety. The junior 
recorded 53 tackles a year ago, fourth best for 
Carnegie Mellon. Arthur also garnered first- 
team District II Academic All-America hon­
ors. His partner at strong safety will be con­
verted linebacker Bosch. This junior notched
36 tackles last season playing outside line­
backer for the Tartans.
N i artan special teamer aeiends krcker Jim Kelly.
Junior Kent Hess and senior Frank Meehan 
are the candidates for the other comerback 
slot. Hess was a backup last year, recording 13 
stops. Meehan missed the entire 1986 cam­
paign with appendicitis, but he appears to be 
ready. Meehan can play both safety positions, 
and may backup Arthur, Bosch or Cramer if he 
doesn’t start. Senior Bob DiGioia and sopho­
more Paul Brinsky will spot the comerbacks. 
Senior Mike Ross and junior Jim Kelly backup 
Bosch, while sophomore Mike Danciak backs 
up Arthur.
There are several fine athletes on the CMU 
defense, but the Tartans have two pressing
problems defensively: depth and youth. Inju­
ries already have and can continue to deplete 
Carnegie Mellon’s roster.
The Tartans are a young team. There are only 
six seniors and six juniors on the defensive 
unit, eight of whom are expected to start. 
There are several underclassmen who in previ­
ous seasons may not have gotten the chance to 
play.
Now the underclassmen may be forced into 
action before they’re ready. If Carnegie 
Mellon’s defense can stay healthy enough, 
they should be strong enough to support the 
Tartans’ potent offense.
Tartan defenders prepare for first opponent Allegheny College by facing each other in practice last week.

---------------------------------------------------

September 1,1987—The Tartan Football Supplement—Page F5
OHead Coach Lackner Speaks Out 
About Carnegie Mellon Football
Below are the highlights of The Tartan’s an­nual interview with head football coach Rich Lackner, conducted on August 28.
O ON THE PASSING GAME
"If you have Mike Hensel behind the quarter­
back spot you’re going to have a strong pass­
ing game. Mike Beresford is a very gifted 
young man, had very fine hands, runs very 
good routes, and makes good decisions. Joe 
Mancuso hs proven to be a fine receiver. 
We’ve always made a commitment to throw- 
’ ing the football with Mike Hensel. We’ve got 
a fine tight end crop. Tim Kelly is down right 
now with a hand problem but will be back 
shortly, Marty Stovar has always caught the 
ball, and a young man from the South Side, 
Gary Gojsovich, who just came out for foot­
ball this year, has good hands.
v. ON THE DEFENSE
"I feel better about our defense this year. We 
lost a good tackle in Ken Harris, but we’re 
returning a good tackle in Bill Kerr, a good 
nose guard in Brian Roessler. We did a great 
job of recruiting some good you’ig talent 
We’ve good good freshmen \vh: are either 
going to be in a backup or starting role very 
quickly. They are fine athletes, have worked 
hard in camp and learned the system...I have a 
senior, two sophomores, and five freshmen at 
inside linebacker. And that seems to be the 
way it is accross the board. Just very few kids 
out there with a lot of experience."
ON THE SWITCH BACK TO THE 4-3
"Last year we felt we didn’t have enough 
linemen to handle the 50 defense...You can 
always use hindsight and say we should of 
maybe done this or done that, but we felt we 
had to do what we had to do at that time and 
that it was the right decision. We made a firm 
commitment to recruit good defensive line­
men this year so we could get back to what we
< know best and what our kids know best be­
cause most teams we recruit from are using 
the 50 defense in high school. We feel very 
good about going back to the 50."
ON THESECONDARY
"I’m concerned about losing Mike LaValle
< and Dan Preston. They were good football 
players and seasoned veterans, but Kent Hess 
has done a fantastic job at the weak comer this 
year....at strong safety we moved Jerry Bosch 
there. That may have been one of the better 
coaching moves. It’s a little bit of the Chuck 
Noll syndrome here - we want to find a place 
for the better athletes and we felt that with 
Skinner and Hoffman coming back at line- 
backer we felt we would have the luxury of 
putting Jerry into the secondary. Frank Mee­
han and Bill Cramer have done well at the 
coma1..Prank Meehan has the ability the play 
here, and if he isn’t going to start, he is going 
to contribute in many ways."
ON RECRUITING
"We’re trying to get out a little further. Obvi­
ously we cant get out to Utah, Washington 
State, and Montana, places like that, but we try 
to really canvass Ohio, Pennsylvania and New 
Jersey. There’s good football in those areas, 
it’s not too far for a kid to come to school, and 
we feel we can be competitive in those areas."
"Once we start to travel to [UAA] schools 
and the kids are shown that it is a first class or­
ganization, travelling first class, staying in 
nice hotels, playing great schools, academic 
schools, we can use it as a tool in recruiting. 
I’m hoping that it will help us, and time will 
tell."
Head Coach Rich Lackner
ON THE YOUTH OF THE OFFENSE
"It a worry, but I’m confident they’re being 
coached. That’s one thing no kid will ever 
leave here saying that they weren't coached. 
These kids are being coached. They’ll know 
what to do. They are going to do it with 100% 
effort It's justaquestionofcan they physically 
handle the man thats ova them. Sometimes 
that happens and sometimes that doesn't...If 
you look at it, we have a sophomore center, 
now that Kai’s hurt, a sophomore guard, two 
sophomore tackles, a sophomore split end, a 
junior fullback and the halfback position is 
really up in the air. We are very fortunate to 
have Billy Heiser and his experience coming 
back. But other than him we have Bobby Pat­
terson, who hasn’t started. This is a chance for 
him to win a job and the we’re looking at 
sophomores again."
ON WASHINGTON AND JEFFERSON
"You have to be blind to not know that they 
are going to be physicaly faster and stronger. 
Hopefully we are going to out-execute them. 
Hopefully we are going to outcoach them. 
Hopefully we'll be more enthusiastic and put 
ourselves in a position to pull an upset. You 
look at their roster and the size of their players 
and we just donthave the people with thatkind 
of size."
ON MIKE HENSEL
"Anytime you have Mike Hensel, there's al­
ways potential for an upset against a team that 
may be physically better than you, because he 
can make things happen. He seems to be run­
ning a lot better this year than he did last year. 
His knee seems to have mended fairly well, he 
is running very well and throwing the ball 
super.
Game 1
Gators No 
Cakewalk
Carnegie Mellon got lucky with the 
Gators last year. The Tartans faced 
Allegheny early in the season and took 
advantage with a 36-7 victory. But the 
Gators came together and posted a 6-4 
record, finishing third in the tough 
North Coast Athletic Conference.
When Allegheny faced CMU, is was 
the first ever college game for starting 
quarterback John Logue. Logue started 
every game last year, and is already a 
veteran as a sophomore. He shouldn’t 
be the same quarterback that the Tartans 
took advantage of last season.
Logue loses reciever Jim Stiefvater 
this year, and will turn to new targets. 
The Gators are plugging their receiving 
core as fast and talented, but there is a 
lack of experience even though two 
seniors look to see substantial time.
The running game is weaker, however. 
Ed Taylor and Curtis Brown, the main 
men of the Gator running attack in re­
cent years, have both graduated. No 
ready replacement really stands out, and 
head coach Peter Voss only has three re­
turnees to turn to, all sophomores. Two 
have played sparingly, while the third, 
Tom Hancock, was just shifted from of­
fensive guard. Time will tell if any of the 
three live up to their potential.
Lucky for the fresh-faced running 
backs, the offensive line is well-stocked 
with veterans. All the starters are back, 
and most are big. Worthy of mention are 
250 pound all-NCAC guard Matt Nates 
and his 275 pound counterpart Tom 
Brown.
The defense also returns large num­
bers of people. Most notable is All- 
America nose guard Mike Parker, only 
a junior. The defensive front is billed as 
both strong and fast, a combination that 
could be troublesome for the young Tar­
tans.
The linebacker spots are less well- 
stocked. Two vets are trying comebacks 
from knee surgery that put them out for 
all but the beginning of last season. The 
secondary could be the strongest part of 
the team, with all four starters back, 
including John Gilberto, who the Ga­
tors are pushing for All-America hon­
ors.
Overall, the Gators are stronger and 
more experienced than in 1986. This 
year’s game against them, although at 
Tech Field, will not be as easy as last 
year's.
Game 2
Case Seems 
Weaker
Last year’s game against Case was 
projected as a tough one. And it was, as 
CWRU staved off a late Tartan come­
back for a 21-14 victory in what was 
billed as the first “Academic Bowl.”
But the odds on bringing the Academic 
Bowl to Pittsburgh look rosy this year. 
The 1987 Spartans are considerably 
weaker than last year’s 7-1-1 team. Last 
year’s head coach, quarterback, and 11 
other starters have all departed, leaving 
CWRU with numerous holes to fill. But 
31 lettermen return, giving head coach 
Ron Stuckey a large talent pool.
Stuckey will begin his first year in 
command of the Spartans, after being 
elevated from defensive coordinator 
when coach Jim Chapman left for West 
Geauga High School. Although Stuckey 
oversaw one of the best defenses in 
Division III last season, Chapman’s 36- 
7-1 standard will be hard to match.
Only 4 defensive starters return, and 
the most significant loss may be All- 
America linebacker Jim Todd, who was 
the keystone of the defense. Case West­
ern is hoping that inside linebacker 
Steve Rosiek, a second team all-confer­
ence selection, can pick up some of the 
slack left by the departure of Todd. DE 
Erwin Grabisna returns, however. Gra- 
bisna earned All-American honors last 
season and had a hand in 21 sacks last 
season. Nick Cerrito is the only returnee 
in the backfield, and the other three 
spots are open.
Also up for grabs is the quarterback 
slot. Last year's incumbent, Mike Denk, 
had only a .459 completion percentage 
but passed for over 1000 yards in 1986. 
Among those battling for the starting 
nod, noe has passed for more than 31 
yards in a college season.
The rushing game looks solid, with a 
pair of all-conference selections return­
ing. The combo, Kurt Conway and Mike 
Imburgia, combined for almost 1000 
yards last season, and Imburgia tagged 
275 receiving yards on top of that. A big 
question is how much protection they 
will get from the offensive line, which 
lost several starters. Key returnees are 
senior Tim Lynch, an All-America line­
man, and tackle Kevin McNamara.
The rivalry between Carnegie Mellon 
and Case Western Reserve is an old one, 
dating back to when both schools' 
names ended in Tech. The Spartans 
won’t be an easy foe.

---------------------------------------------------

Page F6—The Tartan Football Supplement—September 1,1987
Game 3
Big Red In
the City?
Although Duquesne may soon be 
bumped off the Tartans’ schedule in 
favor of UAA opponents, the matchup 
remains a battle for Pittsburgh Division 
III supremacy. So far Carnegie Mellon 
has been dominant, losing only once 
since the series resumed in 1980.
Duquesne returns a strong squad, 
including 17 starters from last season's 
5-3-1 team. An additional advantage is 
playing six of nine games at home, in­
cluding the contest versus CMU.
The Dukes’ strength is their offense, 
which netted 22 points and 344 yards 
last year against a normally staunch 
Tartan defense. The main threat is 
tailback Sean McDonough, who is rap­
idly supplanting memories of former 
Duquesne ground demon Pedro Bow­
man. McDonough has broken several 
of Bowman’s records, including single 
game and season rushing marks. The 
Tartans had McDonough’s number in 
1986 however, holding him to 37 yards 
on 12 carries. He is supported by Jamie 
Colosimo, like McDonough a junior, 
who totaled 498 yards last season.
One man who did have success at 
Tech Field was quarterback Mark 
Vemer, who seeks to match his 216 yard 
total versus CMU again this year. 
Vemer was lost at the end of the season 
due to a concussion, but should regain 
the starting job over senior Bemie Scott. 
Vemer will be without favorite reciever 
Harry Kramer who graduated, and a 
replacement will need to emerge to 
preserve the effectiveness of the Dukes’ 
passing game.
The offensive line returns mostly in­
tact, and the defense looks almost as 
sturdy. All the linebackers return, and 
the only holes that need to be filled are 
at tackle and free safety. The main 
defensive threat is linebacker Vinne 
Vaccarello, a 210-pounder who led the 
team in tackles.
Kicker Doung McAuley did well in 
his first season after transferring to 
Duquesne, and was recognized by the 
Football News. The punting job is up in 
the air between QB Vemer and senior 
John Cardo.
Overall Duquesne looks stronger 
than in years past. The number of veter­
ans plus the home field advantage could 
make the Dukes tough for Carnegie 
Mellon.
Game 4
JCU Has New 
Look
The John Carroll - Carnegie Mellon 
game last season was the starting debut 
for two freshman quarterbacks. Neither 
will throw a pass in this year’s contest. 
That fact points up both the strength of 
the CMU progam and the weakness of 
the Blue Streaks. The Tartans are able to 
shift Dean Garofola from QB to the 
backfield becasue of the return of Mike 
Hensel.
On the other hand, JCU’s Chris Stab- 
lein threw for 1,035 yards but has left for 
greener pastures, setting off another 
Blue Streak quarterback search.
A new man will be doing the searching 
this year, too. Gone is head coach Frank 
Amato, who amassed a 8-19 three-year 
record. He is replaced by his former 
boss Tony DeCarlo, who is also AD and 
wrestling coach. It is DeCarlo’s first 
head coaching job, although he has been 
a defensive coordinator.
Helping to make DeCarlo’s debut 
easier will be a solid core 18 returning 
starters, including many seniors. A 
bright star among those coming back is 
junior linebacker Dave Raskoka, a 
Division I transferee who ranked sec­
ond in tackles on last year’s squad and is 
a pre-season All-America pick. An­
other fine linebacker is Mike Hogue, the 
team’s defensive MVP last season.
Not so set is the running game, a PAC 
essential. Tailback Tom Curtis should 
shoulder most of the load, as he did last 
season when he rambled for 479 yards.
Whoever starts at quarterback will 
look often to Don Stupica, unless the 
quarterback is Stupica himself. Stablein 
pushed Stupica out of the QB spot to 
split end, where the sophomore proved 
he was better at catching passes than 
throwing them, averaging 26.7 yards 
per reception.
JCU may be strongest at punter. Senior 
Doug Dickason earned pre-season All- 
America honors by ranking eighth best 
among Division III punters, averaging 
40.1 yards per punt. He holds three other 
school punting records, including best 
career punt average and and most punts 
in a career.
With all those starters coming back, 
John Carroll shouldn’t have to worry 
about a third consecutive 2-7 season. If 
the Blue Streaks can plug their holes, 
they could creep over the .500 mark for 
the first time since 1982.
Game 5
Watch Out 
for Hiram
The Hiram Terriers are not a team to 
be taken lightly.
Perhaps the PAC’s most potent of­
fense and what looks to be an improved 
defense could take Hiram straight to the 
top. Picked for third in the PAC by the 
coaches and the media, the Terriers 
could exploit a weak Case Western, and 
surprise W&J and CMU to earn a 
NCAA playoff berth.
Helping that goal is an impressive 19 
of 22 starters returning, the high in the 
President’s Athletic Conference. Key 
among them is quarterback Ron De- 
vorsky. The senior is a pre-season All- 
America pick, and is looking to break all 
Terrier passing records, most of which 
he already holds.
But Hiram’s strength is in their multi­
dimensional offense. Running back 
Bobby Starks is as good as any in the 
PAC save W&J’s A.J. Pagano. In addi­
tion to gaining 1300 ground yards over 
his first two seasons, Starks has hauled 
in 35 passes. The junior should be an 
even more frequent target of QB De- 
vorsky in 1987 with the graduation last 
year of standout split end Greg Gorcica.
The running game may be even more 
effective if running back Kurt Darden 
can come back from a 1986 knee injury, 
before which he served primarily as a 
blocking back for Starks.
Where Hiram is weak is on the offen­
sive and defensive lines. They are virtu­
ally the only areas hurt by graduation, 
and may prove to be theTerriers' undo­
ing.
But unlike many other PAC teams, 
Hiram has a verteran defensive secon­
dary returning. Led by three veterans 
from Youngstown Chaney High 
School, including all-conference defen­
sive back Mike Keman, the secondary 
could be tops in the conference.
The linebacking is also solid. Squeez­
ing the last life out of his eligibility is 
fifth-year senior Mike Beltz, the team’s 
1986 defensive MVP. He should lead 
the team in tackles again this season, 
and is favored to retain first-team all­
conference honors.
With the wealth of Terrier talent re­
turning, the Hiram game could be 
tougher than the Tartans’ traditional 
dogfight with Case Western. Carnegie 
Mellon is certainly fortunate to have the 
home-field advantage.
f
Game 6
Tomcats Are 
Cellar-Bound
After another disappointing season, 
the Thiel Tomcats hope to return to 
respectability. Last year's 14-0 loss at 
Tech Field to the Tartans was one of 7 
losses under rookie head coach Mark 
Vennis.
Finding a way to get more points on 
the board will be a main goal of the 
Tomcats after having been shut out in 
five of their eight matches last season, ^ 
including four of six in-conference 
matches.
The quarterback position is up for 
grabs between last year’s starter, senior 
Jim Fucci, and senior Greg Stringer who 
returns to the Tomcat roster after a 
year’s absence.
Whoever wins the job will be throw­
ing to familiar targets. Three starters 
return in the receiving corps: Marty 
Manning, Marv Hill, and second team 
All-PAC selection Greg Houck.
The troubled running game, however, 
is worrisome again. As a team, the 
Tomcats averaged under 100 yards a 
game on the ground last season. The 
only returning member of the corps is 
senior fullback Joe Urbania who last 
year led the Tomcats in rushing with 
389 yards on 117 carries. Urbania, a 
pre-season All-American, will perform 
the large part of the running chores this 
season, but will need help to be effec­
tive.
As was the case a year ago, the Tom­
cats again look to improve substantially 
a defense that allowed an average of 4.5 
yards per carry and a 55% pass comple- ’ * 
tion rate.
Two key members who missed the 
1986 season return to bolster the unit. 
Senior defensive back Greg Pemus re­
turns after a knee injury shortened his 
1986 performance to 2 games. Pemus 
had led the Tomcats with 7 intercep­
tions in 1985. Hejoinstwoofonly three 
returning starters on defense in the sec­
ondary, Tom Dickason and Bob 
Vaughn.
Also returning after a year’s absence 
is Thiel’s 1985 leading tackier, senior 
linebacker James Simko. The only 
other veteran joining him is senior line­
man Jeff Cocain who was third in tack­
les for the Tomcats last season.
Despite the plusses, the Thomcats are 
everybody's pick for the President's 
Athletic Conference cellar.

---------------------------------------------------

September 1,1987—The Tartan Football Supplement—Page F7
I---------------------------------------------Game 7
No Surprises 
From GCC
The Grove City CollegeWolverines 
were last year’s surprise team in the 
PAC. After an inauspicious 0-4 start, 
the Wolverines rebounded to win their 
last five games and finish the season 
over .500. Tartan fans best remember 
the middle game of that streak, when the 
Wolverines upset Carnegie Mellon 25- 
22 at Tech Field.
( Despite the late season improvement 
last year, it may be a difficult year for 
Head Coach Chris Smith. He has only 
half his 1986 starters returning, the 
fewest in the Presidents' Athletic Con­
ference.
Gone is running back Kirk Fennell, 
the second leading rusher in the PAC 
and the Wolverines’ main offensive i weapon. Back is quarterback Jeff Cass, 
who trailed most other conference pas­
sers with a 69 yard per game avarage 
and a .422 completion percentage. 
Despite being a second team all-PAC 
selection, he may get some competition 
from seniors Matt McKinley and Bruce 
Ferry and sophomore Dave Contini. 
Fullback John Kunst may become the 
( bullwark of the ground game, while the 
running back jobs seem up for grabs.
Interestingly, Grove City’s top re­
turnee is kicker Doug Hart. Hart, a pre­
season All-America pick, was one of the 
best in Division III last year and holds 
the PAC distance record with a 55 yard 
field goal. The rest of the special teams 
are also a bright spot. Kickoff return 
man Craig Sweirgol is ranked fifth in 
the nation, and teamed up with QB Cass 
in 1986 to make an excellent punt return 
team.
The defense, which allowed an 
average of over 340 yards per game but 
nevertheless posted three shutouts, 
looks fairly solid. Although he failed to 
receive any conference honors, line­
backer John Senkowitz was named 
Wolverine defensive MVP. Also back 
are nose tackle Darrin Miller and tackle 
Bob Wengryn. The secondary is thin, 
hurt greatly by the loss of standout de­
fensive back Chris DeMaio.
Grove City has the home field advan­
tage on the Tartans, always a major 
factor. Certainly the Tartans will pay 
more attention to Grove City this year, 
instead of looking ahead one more week 
to the W&J game, after last year’s upset 
loss.
»
Game 8
W&J Is the 
Favorite
Last season, the Washington and Jef­
ferson Presidents were the overwhelm­
ing favorite among the PAC coaches to 
win the conference. Which is what they 
did, making to the NCAA playoffs.
W&J is picked to win once again this 
year, and the 1987 squad looks a lot like 
the 1986 version that rolled over the 
Tartans 41-8 last November 1. Three 
All-Americans, including the PAC de­
fensive and offensive players of the 
year, will be back to trouble CMU.
A.J. Pagano is the the headliner of the 
returnees. The senior running back is 
W&J football, propelling an also-ran 
program to a Top-20 regular. He led the 
PAC in rushing and scoring for the third 
consecutive year last season, and is fa­
vored to capture both titles once again.
Many of Pagano’s big friends on the 
Presidents’ offensive line return. All- 
PAC tackle John Snyder, Matt Walsh, 
and Voltaire Meade are some of the 
linemen CMU will not be happy to see 
again. Walsh, a tackle, was figured for a 
All-American last year, but was slowed 
by injuries. If he’s healthy, watch out. 
Meade, a Division I retread, had a repu­
tation for inflicting punishment.
Gone, however, is quarterback Rich 
Riotto and W&J is searching for a re­
placement. Junior Pat Ainger is the 
favorite, but could lose the job if a 
freshman is impressive in camp.
Although only five starters return, the 
Presidents’ defense is formidable. Line­
backer Jim Meyer, W&J’s leader in 
tackles and the PAC defensive player of 
the year, is seeking All-America honors 
for a second straight year. Supporting 
Meyer is Mark Kern, who went from 
reserve lineman to All-America guard 
over the course of last season. Two 
seniors graduated off last year’s line, 
but W&J seems to have the depth to plug 
the holes with relative ease.
The weakest spot on the team is the 
secondary. Only comerback Arnold 
Tarpley is back. Several upperclassmen 
are vying for vacant spots, but none has 
seen substantial playing time.
The contest between the Tartans and 
W&J should be a significant one as al­
ways. W&J’s demolition job last sea­
son was the final blow to Carnegie 
Mellon’s playoff hopes, but the game 
returns to Tech Field this season, afford­
ing the Tartans the home field.
Game 9
Bethany: W.V. 
Air Force
Traditionally one of the weaker teams 
in the President’s Athletic Conference, 
the Bethany Bisons look to escape the 
cellar after consecutive 1-8 seasons. 
The Bisons put a scare into the Tartans 
last year in the season finale by going 
up 24-7 late in the third quarter before 
succumbing to an aggressive, if late, 
Tartan couterattack and colapsing 27- 
24.
The Bisons’ hopes rest in the arm of 
junior quarterback Tracey Finchum. 
Last season, Finchum passed for 1968 
yards and nine touchdowns, finishing 
the season ranked 8th in Division III for 
total offense. Finchum has been named 
a pre-season All-American by the Foot­
ball News, the only Bethany player so 
named.
Finchum has three of his four favorite 
targets from last season returning. Jun­
ior split end Troy Costain (424 yards), 
senior running back Curt Neei (413 
yards, 3 TDs), and senior running back 
Tim Williams (373 yards) all are back 
for another season, Neel and Costain 
after being named to the second-team 
All-PAC squad.
However, the lack of a running game 
will leave the job of defensing the Bi­
sons relatively easy. Neel is the only 
returning member of the backfield to 
have rushed for more than 100 yards in 
a single season,much less in a single 
game
While the offense was relatively good 
at puting points on the scoreboard 
through the air, the porous Bethany de­
fense allowed an average of 368.3 yards 
and 27.4 points per game, tough num­
bers for an offense to make up for.
Head Coach Wally Neel does not even 
have the luxury of having more than 4 
starters returning on defense. In an at­
tempt to shore up the Bison effort, sen­
ior co-captain, and last year’s leading 
rusher, Dean Piskor has been moved 
from fullback to linebacker joining two 
year starter Jerry Wessel in the line­
backer corps.
The rest of the defense will be looking 
to untested players to try to hold the unit 
together long enough to bring Finchum 
and his aerial acrobatics back on the 
field. Unfortunately, Bethany will fight 
not for the PAC championship this sea­
son, but to avoid regaining their position 
of conference doormat.
Game 10
Wash U: A 
New Foe
Washington University of St. Louis is 
a new entrant on the Tartans ’ grid sched­
ule. The St. Louis institution, like CMU, 
is a charter member of the U AA and will 
be a regular opponent.
The Bears, as Washington’s athletic 
teams are nicknamed, appear to be one 
of Carnegie Mellon’s weaker football 
foes this season. They are coming off a 
2-7 season, and have undergone whole­
sale change, starting at the top. Fresh in 
from the northwest is Ken Woody, 
where he ran Washington State’s inno­
vative option offense.
That offense will follow him to Wash­
ington of St. Louis. The attack will be an 
uncomplicated single option, combin­
ing quick, short passes with basic re­
ceiving routes. While the option is tough 
to defense against, it represents a total 
change from what the Bears are used to 
and may be subject to teething prob­
lems. The QB will be junior Bud 
Stephani, who has been the backup the 
past two years.
The receivers are also untested, with 
senior flanker Scott Graboski leading 
the way as a first-year starter. The other 
pass catchers will emerge from the 
crowd of freshmen and sophomores. 
Leading the Washington ground game 
is running back Tom Polacek, a 6', 200 
pound senior who is seventh on the 
Bears’ all time rushing list. Polacek is 
inury-prone, however, and has missed 8 
games over the past three years. He is 
healthy now, but Washington doesn’t 
face the Tartans until game 10.
The defense is changing like the rest of 
the team. Much in the same manner the 
Tartan coaching staff decided in 1986 
that they did not have the bigger players 
to use the “50” defense and switched to 
the 4-3, Woody is shifting the Bears 
from the 5-2 to the 4-3. Assuming the 
defense adjusts ably, the Bears should 
be able to hold their own barring injury. 
The line is heavy, averaging about 228 
pounds, but Washington lacks depth. 
The team’s best athlete is safety Marvin 
Williams, a senior who qualified in 
three national track events. Also return­
ing in the secondary is defensive end 
Tim Ney, but the other spots are open 
If the team can adjust to a new confer­
ence, coach, quarterback, offense, and 
defense, the Bears should better their 2-
7 record.

---------------------------------------------------

F J -
ITS FRESH
FAST, FREE DELIVERY
4 I
Call NOW!682-2772
Limited Delivery Area
HOURS
Mon-Thurs11 am-12 pm 
Fri-Sat 11 am -1 am 
Sunday 1 pm -10 pm
OUR LARGE 16" 
CHEESE 
NEOPOLITAN PIZZA
EXPIRES 9/20/87
OUR SMALL 12" 
CHEESE 
NEOPOLITAN PIZZA
EXPIRES 9/20/87
OUR PAN 
PRIMAVERA PIZZA
EXPIRES 9/20/87
