«^CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 54 —NUMBER 17 Wednesday, February 28, 1962
'Ï'T' Sh7 Ts ""/’'ysirs gt ololi i. Soda PredictsAnd nlew Prestiman hlective
Milton C. Shaw
Members Addetl to 
Newly Established 
Visiting Program
Four new members have been 
added to the Tech Visiting Com­
mittee program: Dr. Oscar T.
Marzke, vice-president, funda­
mental research, United States 
Steel Corporation, to the depart­
ment of metallurgical engineering; 
Dr. George E. Holbrook, a vice- 
president, director and member of 
the Executive Committee of the 
Du Pont Company, and Mr. Leon­
ard S. Mudge, Director, Pittsburgh 
National Bank, to the department 
of chemical engineering; and Paul 
Fromm, founder and president, 
Fromm Music Foundation, to the 
department of music.
The Visiting Committee pro­
gram, established in September, 
1961, has two major aims: to bring 
national figures in close relation­
ship with the activities of all de­
partments and divisions of Car­
negie Tech; and to secure the aid 
of these commitees, their counsel 
and fresh viewpoints, in achieving 
the objectives of Carnegie.
The committees will spend at 
least one day a year on campus 
and individual commitee members 
will be encouraged to visit Tech 
for personal talks with the de­
partment head or appropriate dean 
as well as with administrative of­
ficers. The committees will make 
informal reports to the dean or 
administrative officer involved, or 
to the president. Once each year, 
the committee’s activities will be 
reported to the board of trustees.
Milton C. Shaw, professor and 
head of the department of me­
chanical engineering, will deliver 
a public lecture before the Car­
negie Chapter of the Society of 
Sigma Xi at a meeting to be held 
Tuesday, March 6, at 4:30 p.m. 
in the Wherrett Room, Skibo.
Professor Shaw will talk on 
“Physical Principles vs Observed 
Effects.” Coffee will be served at 
4:15 preceding the program and 
at the meeting to follow the lec­
ture, the names of seniors elected 
to associate membership will be 
announced.
Professor Shaw joined the Car­
negie Tech faculty in September 
after having served at Massa­
chusetts Institute of Technology. 
He will discuss some of the sub­
jects which receive emphasis in 
his new elective course for fresh­
men, “Introduction to Engineer­
ing.” He will illustrate by refer­
ence to classical examples of the­
oretical misinterpretation from 
the work of Archimedes, Galileo 
and others, the importance of cor­
rectly identifying the main phys­
ical principle associated with an 
observed physical effect.
Organizations
All organization reports 
Student Congress are due today. 1
SN and AE Phi 
Win Honors 
In Scholarship
Sigma Nu and Beta Theta Pi 
lead the fraternity scholarship list 
for the past semester with average 
factors of 2.440 and 2.434 respec­
tively. All of the sororities, how­
ever, rank above even the high­
est fraternities and are headed 
by Alpha Epsilon Phi with a fac­
tor of 2.899. The seven sororities 
were all above the all-women's 
average of 2.634, but only three of 
the twelve fraternities ranked 
above the all-men’s average of 
2.294.
Scholarship trophies will be 
awarded to the winning fraternity 
and sorority at Greek Swing, 
March 17. Since the sorority 
scholaship is awaded only once 
a year, the winning group will be 
the one which has maintained 
the highest scholarship average 
over the last two academic semes­
ters.
The complete list of fraternity 
and sorority scholarship averages 
follows:
Fraternity Scholarship
SN ..................................................2.440
BTP ..............................................2.434
for | PKT ..............................................2.315
[confintted on page 2]
An Outstanding Production
A picture from the past previews “Masked Ball'’ Atmosphere.
Mardi Gras Spirit to Prevail 
With Varied Music & Costumes
Skibo Ballroom will take on an international flavor this 
Friday evening as the costumed dancers, in Mardi Gras spirit, 
revel at the “Masked Ball.” The music for dancing will be 
as varied as the costumes: the tango from the Argentine, 
the waltz from Vienna, the mazurka from Greece, the 
Charleston from the U. S., and even perhaps, the twist from 
Outer Space. ?--------------------------------------------------------
At eleven o’clock a floor-show 
will be presented for the enter­
tainment of the guests. This wnll 
include: music of Japan as play­
ed by Miss Naoko Matsubara; Mr.
Gil Dennis, comedian; and selec­
tions from the opera, “The Mask­
ed Ball,” sung by Mr. Arthur 
Schaeffer.
During the floor-show, the 
prizes for the outstanding cos-
Grapliic Arts 
Departments Hosts 
Second Committee
The Visiting Committee to the 
department of graphic arts held 
its second meeting on the cam­
pus, Friday, February 23. The 
tumes will be presented. At the | committee was established in 1961 rnen have been asked to come at
close oi the floor-show the Queen i serve as a source for profes- that time. Also, people interested
of the Mardi Gras, and Her^ Court | sional discussion and advice to the !in working on any of the crews
department s programs. I may sign up‘ WillinS workers are
' The most active place on 
Carnegie Tech’s campus the 
past two Saturday afternoons 
has been the W h e r i e t 
Lounge of the Skibo Activi­
ties Center. There, the candidates 
for the cast of “Viv” mad their 
bid for campus stardom in the 
1962 version of Scotch ’n Soda. 
It was a scene of both fun and 
fear as forty-one intrepid aspi­
rants entertained Scotch ’n Soda’s 
Board with singing and dancing, 
and the reading of exerpts from 
the script.
Faculty Advisor Jinv DeBlasis, a 
participant Scotch ’n Soda himself 
a few years ago, enthusiastically 
exclaimed that these were the 
highest quality, “the greatest au­
ditions” he had ever seen.
The most fun occurred during 
the scene readings, as the pro­
ceedings stopped continually while 
the auditioners and the Board 
broke into laughter, at the clever 
lines of writers Mike Hall and 
Dean Brown.
Dr. Beekman D. Cotrell of the 
English Department, who helped 
edit the script, has expressed the 
belief that this year’s show could 
be a very fine Scotch ’n Soda pro­
duction. He stated that the final 
result will be dependent on the 
quality and the accomplishment 
of the cast. But the enthusiastic 
response of the Board and Mr. 
DeBlasis to the auditions points to 
the probability of a great campus 
show in May.
Further Auditions
President Stu Warshawsky has 
announced that further readings 
will be held this Saturday, March 
3 at eleven a.m. in the Wherrett 
Lounge. All those who have been 
contacted by telephone have been 
requested to attend, at which time 
the cast will be selected. In addi­
tion, those people who still wish 
try out, and especially anyto
will be introduced. As a tribute 
to her beauty, Mr. Erwin Harris 
has been retained by the Inter­
national Club to make a portrait 
study of Her Majesty.
The International Club invites 
everyone to join them in this 
Mardi Gras celebration. Admis­
sion is $.75 per person.
One of a Series
Week Long Workshop to Develop Leaders
needed on the construction, paint, 
prop, costume, and light running
What is effective leadeship? 
How can a leader enable a group 
to function more effectively? Do 
you have to be born a leader, or 
«re there ways in which you can 
develop leadership capacities? 
How can a leader recognize these 
forces and deal creatively with 
them?
These are some of the questions 
that will be dealt with in the 
Leadership Workshop being offer­
ed to the campus under the joint 
sponsorship of Student Congress 
and the YMCA-YWCA. Built 
around the topic; “The Psychology
of Leadership," the workshop 
should help every leader of a 
campus organization to do a better 
job. The workshop will not be 
a series of lectures! Instead the 
workshop members will partici­
pate in role playing, demonstra­
tion of problem situations and 
other devices designed to illus­
trate the concepts being consid­
ered. Richard Batchelder and Ver­
na Volz, the Campus Y.M.C.A. 
and Y.W.C.A. staff will act as 
coordinators of the worship, al­
though other faculty and re­
sources will be brought in as 
needed. The workshop will meet 
for six sessions on Thursday eve­
nings, 6:30-8:15 p.m., from March 
1 through April 12 (except for 
Mid-term exam week) n 40 Ski­
bo.
Campus organizations are urg-
The meeting on Friday started 
at 10:00 a.m. with a welcome from , crews
Walter J. Blenko, chairman, and Warshawsky has also announc- chairman of the executive com- ed that there are stm six tech.
n^ttee of the Carnegie Tech board | nical positions op*n. They are 
of trustees. The program included Technical Director. Lighting De- 
a progress report on the new de- j signer Draftsman. Assistant Stage 
partment of graphic arts by the Manager. Assistant Business Man- 
head of the department Professor Lger and Purchasing Agent A
Kenneth G. Scheid. There was a plications should be sent to Scotch 
tour of the Graduate School of In-j .n Soda via campus mail Box
dustnal Administration and the, 258 by Friday, March 2 
department of painting, design and j For those who haye alread
,During the Lunch’ been designated for technic,' scheduled for 1:00 p.m., Erwinpositions, a meeting has been 
scheduled for them with the 
Board on Sunday, March 4 in
Steinberg, dean of Margaret Mor­
rison Carnegie College, addressed 
ed to select at least one of the'r £rouP- The afternoon session gkibo room 55 at one p.m
best prospective leaders for next i included sub-committee meetings j -----------------
year, pay their registration fee,
and send them to the workshop 
The workshop will be limited 
to 24 people. It will not be re­
stricted only to leaders of campus
for the department’s design and 
management curricula.Tortati Meeting
All people in any way connected 
with the TARTAN organization
 -------------  - ------1— [ _  .. . , ti,- , „ , , are invited to attend an importantorganizations, but will also be S f,1 ^ mee*inS Wednesday, meeting of the entire staff nex|
There will be a Student Con-
open to any person interested in j February 28, 1962 in „he Wherrett f Xuesday Mareh 6> at 11:30 Roora 
increasing his leadership skills, j Lounge of Skibo at 4.30 p.m It 50 gkibo Any onf interested f|| 
Registration will be taken at the |ls requested that all members ^participating in the aetivitv of 
Y office, 57 Skibo, on a first-come ¦ Present for this meeting. putting out a weekly newspaper i«
first served basis. | • welcome to attend this meeting.

---------------------------------------------------

Fa*e 2— THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, February 28, 1962
“The Idiot” Shown 
As Exchange Movie
February 27-28 and March 1 
there will be three special mati­
nee performances of “THE IDIOT” 
at the Shadyside Theatre, Walnut 
Street.
“THE IDIOT” is a Russian- 
made screen adaptation of Fyodor 
Dostoyevsky’s brilliant novel; it 
is Mosfilm production in Deluxe 
Color, released in this country by 
Twentieth Century-Fox.
The picture is one of several 
films now playing in this country 
under the auspices of the Amer­
ican-Soviet cultural exchange pro­
gram. While -‘THE IDIOT” is 
playing in the United States, 
Twentieth Century-Fox’s award 
winning “ALL ABOUT EVE,” 
starring the famous Bette Davis, 
is being shown throughout Russia.
Directed by one of Russia’s 
finest, Ivan Pyriev, and starring 
two top Russian performers, Yuri 
Yakovlev and Yulia Borisova, 
Dostovevsky’s classic novel loses 
none of the author’s spirit in its 
translation to the screen. The 
world of the novelist with its 
great passions, its agonizing quests 
for truth, its deep psychological 
insight, is powerfully and undeni­
ably evident in this motion pic­
ture.
There will be one performance 
daily at 4:00 p.m. and a special ad­
mission of only 75c for these per- 
iormances.
BULLETIN BOARD
ASME and AIEE
“Are Engineering College Curri­
cula Outdated?” will bo the sub­
ject discussed at a joint meeting 
of the ASME and the AIEE. The 
talk will be given by Dr. Edwin D. 
Harrison, president of Georgia In­
stitute of Technology. The meet­
ing will be held Wednesday, March 
7, at 8:00 p.m. in the Mellon In­
stitute Auditorium.
Emerson Club
Do we get the products we 
need, or are we trained to need 
what we get from our manufac­
turers? Who does a designer real­
ly try to serve? How7 does the 
“new and therefore better” an­
nual model serve the consumer’s 
needs? Emerson Club asks these 
and similar questions of Mr. 
David Barbour, “ad-man,” on 
March 4.
Emerson Club meets about 5:30 
for dinner ($0.75) in the Schweit­
zer Room of the First Unitarian 
Church, Ellsworth and Morewood 
Avenues. The free program begins 
about 7:00.
Scholarship
[continued from page 1]
PiKA .............................................2.292
TX .................................................2.260
DTD ...............................................2,250
DU .................................................2.248
ATO ..............................................2.197
BSP ...............................................2.185
KS...................................................2.175
TDP ...............................................2.093
SAE ...............................................2.090
All-Fraternity ............................2.256
All-Men .........................................2.294
All-Independent Men. . ... .2.316
All-School ....................................2.395
Sorority Scholarship
AEP ...............................................2.899
DDD ............................................2.804
KKG................................................2.787
DG ..................................................2.779
Chi O .............................................2.777
KAT ...............................................2.710
SK...................................................2.675
All-Sorority ................................2.782
All-Women ..................................2.634
All School .....................................2.395
the
analytically
minded
An analytical mind can carry you a long way in 
the fast-moving field of electronic data proc­
essing. If you have a flair for business,.. and 
enjoy solving tough problems... you can dis­
cover unique satisfaction in this new career.
Openings are available throughout the 
country in either SystemsEngineering or Direct 
Sales. IBM is an Equal Opportunity Employer.
The marketing and application of data proc­
essing systems is challenging and fascinating. 
After comprehensive training you help man­
agement executives solve problems which 
include automation of: process control and 
manufacturing operations, inventory control, 
document preparation, highway planning, 
weather forecasting; and complete business
“control systems for utilities, transportation, 
banking, and insurance, to name but a few. 
New techniques of automatic data processing 
are making headline news almost daily.
We have a critical need for those who have 
majored in science, mathematics, and engi­
neering. And we have equal opportunities for 
majors in business administration, econom­
ics, finance and liberal arts with an aptitude 
and interest in electronic data processing.
It’s a new professional field for both men 
and women in which earnings are high and 
promotions come quickly. TAR more informa­
tion describing the opportunities at IBM, see 
your College Placement Director or, if you 
desire, write or call—
R. W. Paulin, Branch Manager 
IBM Corporation, Dept. 882 
421 7th Ave. 
Pittsburgh 19, Pa. 
Phone: CO 1-6880
You naturally have a 
better chance to grow 
with a dynamic growth company.
¦ *
IBM
Emem rsonCllubI
IBM will interview March 21, 22. i
For Shoes See . . .
WALLYS
SHOE STORE
CAMPUS SHOES for MEN and WOMEN
U. S. KEDS
JARMAN and FLORSHEIM SHOES 
3612 FORBES AVE. (Opposite Strand Theater)
Open Friday Night ’till 9 P.M.
On Camposwith
JfexShulman
(Author of "I Was a Teen-age Dwarf’, “The Many 
Loves of Dobie Gillis", etc.)
THE GRASS IS ALWAYS GOLDER
The academic world, as we-all know, is loaded with dignity and 
ethics, with lofty means and exalted ends, with truth and beauty. 
In such a world a heinous thing like faculty raiding—colleges en­
ticing teachers away from other colleges—is not even thinkable.
However, if the dean of one college happens—purely by 
chance, mind you—to run into a professor from another college, 
and the professor happens to remark—just in passing, mind you 
—that he is discontented with his present position, why, what’s 
wrong with the dean making the professor an offer? Like the 
other afternoon, for instance, Dean Sigafoos of Gransmire 
Polytech, finding himself in need of a refreshing cup of oolong, 
dropped in quite by chance at the Discontented Professors 
Exchange where he discovered Professor Stuneros from the 
English Department of Kroveny A and M sitting over a pot of 
lapsang soochong and shrieking “I Hate Kroveny A and M V* 
Surely there was nothing improper in the dean saying to the 
professor, “Leander, perhaps you’d like to come over to us. I 
think you’ll find our shop A-OK.”
(It should be noted here that all English professors are named 
Leander, just as all psychics professors are named Fred, All 
sociology professors are, of course, named Myron, all veterinary 
medicine professors are named Rover, and all German professors 
are named Hansel and Gretel. All deans, are, of course, named 
Attila.)
But I digress, Leander, the professor, has just been offered a 
Job by Attila, the dean, and he replies, “Thank you, but I 
don’t think so.”
“And I don’t blame you,” says Attila, stoutly. “I under­
stand Kroveny has a fine little library.”
“Well, it’s not too bad,” says Leander. “We have 28 volumes 
i l all, including a mint copy of Nancy Drew, Girl Detective 
“Very impressive,” says Attila. “Us now, we have 36 million 
volumes, including all of Shakespeare’s first folios and the Dead 
£ea Scrolls.”
“Golly whiskers/’ says Leander.
“But of course,” says Attila, “you don’t want to leave 
Kroveny where. I am told, working conditions are tickety-boo.” 
“Oh, they’re not too bad,” says Leander. “I teach 18 hours 
of English, 11 hours of optometry, 6 hours of forestry, coach the 
fencing team, and walk Prexy’s cat twice a day,”
“A full, rich life,” says Attila. “At our school you’d be some­
what less active. You’jJ teach one class a week, limited to four A 
students. As to salary, you’d start at $50,000 a year, with 
retirement at full pay upon reaching age 29.’!
a
Wtfrtxyï affata# éy/
“Sir,” says Leander, “your offer is most fair but you must 
understand that I owe a certain loyalty to Kroveny.”
“I not only understand, I applaud,” says Attila. “But before 
you make a final decision, let me tell you one thing more. We 
supply Marlboro cigarettes to our faculty—all you want at all 
times.”
“Gloryosky!” cries Leander, bounding to his feet, “You mean 
Marlboro, the filter cigarette with the unfiltered taste— 
Mariboro, the cigarette with better makin’s — Marlboro that 
comes to you in pack or box—Mariboro that gives you such a 
lot to like?”
“Yep,” says Attila, “that’s the Mariboro I mean.”
“I am yours,” cries Leander, wringing the Dean’s hand. 
ifWhere do I sign?”
“At the quarry,” replies Attila. “Frankly, we don’t trust 
paper contracts any more. We chisel them in marble.”
* * • c )W1 Mm flhwJmm
Stonecutters cut it in stone, woodcutters cut it in wood, 
eemmstresses embroider it in doilies: you get a lot to like 
in a Marlboro—filter, flavor, pack or box*

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, February îj, 19«*-THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Fase J
hotel
k WEBSTER HALL
This WeekEXCITING, PROFITABLE 
‘CREDIT-ABLE” SUMMERS
PittsburghTOURS - JOBS - COURSES
Wednesday, Febuary 28
Don OossacK Chorus and Danc­
ers, Memorial Hall, Oakland. 
Matiness of “The Idiot” Shady- 
side Theatre. A film from the 
American-Soviet Cultural ex­
change.
Thursday, March 1 
“The Idiot” Shadpside Theatre 
matinee.
“The Black Pirate” Film Arts. 
Tech-Geneva basketball game, 
Skibo gym.
Friday, March 2
Pittsburgh Symphony. Pianist 
Nikita Magaloff makes his Pitts­
burgh debut. Compositions by 
Tschaikowsky, Respighi, De­
bussy and the first performance 
of Garner Read’s Third Sym­
phony, Syria Mosque.
Sunday, March 4 
Pittsburgh Symphony. 
Continuing: Events
Hewlett Gallery, paintings by 
members of the Fine Arts fac­
ulty at the University of Illinois, 
to March 9.
Nixon—Indefinitely “West Side 
Story,” movie.
Playhouse — “Ander sonville 
Trial” till February 25.
“World of Shalom Aleichem” 
till March 11.
“Pair of Spectacles,” a French 
farce, till March 25, student 
rates.
Pitt—Theater on 11th floor of 
the cathedral, 2 one act plays: 
“The Bed Time Story” and an 
original “Nine Sons in a Row” 
at 8:30 p.m., free.
Buhl Planetarium — Latin Fes­
tival Exhibits, McNally Globe 
as seen by an Astronaut, 
“Heroes of the Sky.”
Coming Events
“MacBeth.” Pittsburgh Play­
house, opens March 10, starring 
Robert Loggia and Salome Jens, 
directed by Milton Katselas.
Ice Follies. Sports Arena. March 
12-19.
Go to an archeological “dig” in Great Britain
Earn college credit at the Sorbonne, Universities of Hawaii. Perugia, Madrid and others
Relax on the glamorous Riviera
Meet students at universities abroad
Interview government officials in other countries
Take riding, gliding and sailing courses in Germany or Switzerland
Study international law in Luxembourg
Take a job in Europe
Swim in the warm Caribbean
Many other uniusual possibilities
Complete Free of Charge Service
We all make mistake*
ERASE WITHOUT A TRACE 
ON EATON’S CORRÂSABLE BOND
Don’t meet your Waterloo at the typewriter—perfectly 
typed papeis begin with Corrasable! You can rub out 
typing errors with just an ordinary pencil eraser. It’» 
that simple to erase without a trace on Corrasable. Saves 
time, temper, and money!
Your choice of Corrisable in '** - 
light, medium, heavy weights and 7T ]
Onion Skin in handy 100- 
sheet packet.«* and 500-sheet 
boxes. Only Eaton makes w
Corrasable.
A Berkshire Typewriter Paper /
EVERYWHERE IN THE WORLD
JOANNE L. BLUM, President 
(Former Assistant Director, Foreign Policy Association of Pgh.) 
Call EXpress 1-1040
TONY'S BARBER SHOPBATON PAPER CORPORATION (E) PITTSFIELD, MASS
Tareyton >delivers Athe flavor...^
DVAL FILTER DOES IT!
Orhaug Speaks 
On Engineering 
And W.Va. Merger
Last Thursday, Dr. Torleiv Or­
haug of the radio astronomical 
observatory in Green Bank, West 
Virginia^ spoke at a graduate en- 
^ gineering seminar at Tech. He dis­
cussed the basic methods of radio 
astronomy and some of the diffi­
culties encountered in achieving a 
working installation.
In the afternoon, Dr. Orhaug 
talked with Dean Teare and Dean 
Schatz about the possibility of 
establishing a connection between 
Green Bank and Carnegie Tech.
In addition, Dr. Orhaug was the 
guest of Theta Xi Fraternity on 
? Wednesday. Born in Norway, he 
has been in the United States for 
the last two years, working as a 
research scientist in electronics 
and radio astronomy at Green 
Bank. He told Theta Xi he was 
impressed by the extent to which 
American private industry and 
even individuals are able to en­
gage in i*esearch.
After his visit to Tech, Dr. Or­
haug left for a tour of radio
* nstrononiical observatories in Eu- 
’ rope.
‘'Tareyton's Dual Filter in duas partes divisa est!"
says turf king Virgilius (Big Wheel) Plutarch. “T>y the 
Appian Way to fine tobacco taste—Dual Filter Tareytons,” 
says Big Wheel. “From the Alps to the Aqueduct, we smoke 
them summo cum gaudio. Tky Tareyton, one filter cigarette 
that really delivers de gustibus!”
ACTIVATED CHARCOAt 
NVOLU ME5RLU-jcfWYou’ll rate with f|j|^)your date. ..
For a meal or just 
a snack-put Hotel 
Webster Hall on your 
close-to-campus entertain­
ment schedule.DUAL FILTERTareyton
Avrfvrf if C-Xfmm ittmrmMh
Ptf* fm'T»l+phowi MAyflowf 1.T70Q

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4 —THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, February 28, 1962
GuesE merEsornC
Carnegie University-1970
John Christian Warner recently recalled 
with understandable pride, that Carnegie In­
stitute of Technology had been one of the 
first universities of similar nature to require 
the present degree of Humanities and Social 
Science courses in the professional engi­
neering and science education.
Carnegie Institute of Technology has de­
veloped with great strides since the early 
part of the century when Hornbostel ex­
pected some commuting students to enter 
the campus from a railroad stop behind 
Machinery Hall.
The student no longer expects a technical 
education in the sense which our Scottish 
founder expressed, but now looks for an 
education beyond “oblivion”.
More accurately though, most students in 
actuality do riot know what they expect from 
education other than a better job. The fac­
ulty must anticipate the needs of society 
and the student. The faculty must provide 
the leadership of society and the stability 
of the academic community.
President Warner, expressed in “A Letter 
From the President” four years ago a phil­
osophy of good high education that may be 
the keystone of future developments in our 
university.
“Good higher education places emphasis 
on the intellectual development of the indi­
vidual student to the limits of his capacity. 
It should provide an understanding of our 
heritage and our society; a firm set of values; 
a mastery of the fundamental disciplines of 
one or more scholarly fields; an ability to 
marshall basic ideas, principles, theories, and 
values to find an orderly solution to a new 
problem or a new situation; the habit of 
learning something from each experience; 
skill in the arts of communications; and the 
motivation for continuing to learn through­
out life so that one may grow to full stature 
as a scholar or professional person and as a 
citizen.'’
Recent developments both worldwide 
and nationally have set the stage for a pe­
riod of rapid evolution in American educa­
tion. The next four years will result in rad­
ical changes in both educational practices 
and philosophy.
Particular to Carnegie Institute of Tech­
nology, we find an increased reflection upon 
basic ethical and intellectual standards of 
the individuals in our university.
Looking Forward
In Defense Of 
President Kennedy
By Allan J. Topol
Some of President Kennedy’s most ardent Liberal supporters in 
the election of 1960 have become his most vigorous critics. To a very 
Fifty years ago the high school diploma large extent, this criticism has not been justified, 
was premium, today the Bachelor’s degree tut *is commonplace. Graduate education will, XT Amencan Liberalism finds its expression, in part, in Nation and 
in the very near future become a necessity. ew RePub,»c- It is m these periodicals that President Kennedy 
There is basic truth in the saying that was once supported for his desire to achieve immediate progress in 
one who is not going forward is falling be- domestic affairs. It is here that he is now being censured for his 
hind. Universities are no different. moderation.
Carnegie Institute of Technology recent- 
ly concluded the major part of a physical are told b~v Liberals that President Kennedy has failed to
development and is now in the early stages achieve progress since his election. We are told that no civil rights 
of an internal change — a change of minds legislation has passed, nor has a bill for aid to education, nor one 
and individuals. for medical care for the aged.
This development will be first of all an ...........................assertion that we are a university in the full- Yet thls crltlcism 1S unjustified for two reasons. First because
est sense, not a technical institute. some piogiess was made in 1961. It was progress characterized by C
Carnegie University much as its conti- minimum wage increase passed in compromise form, but neverthe- 
nental predecessors of a century ago is be- less passed. It was characterized by civil rights progress in the area 
coming a graduate university and will soon of enforcement of court orders by the Justice Department rather than 
rely on other undergraduate schools for by new legislation.
much preparatory education. Bu( ,his criticism is also unjustifiedbecause it fails to considerYet peculiar to its own era Carneg e U - the stiff opposition that President Kennedy faces in the Congressional
coalition of Republicans with southern Democrats. It fails to con­
sider the degree to which our machinery or government permits this 
coalition to block the President’s program. It also fails to consider 
a loss of fifteen seats held by Liberals in the House of Representa­
tives during the last election. Finally there is no doubt that the Con­
gressional leadership formerly provided by Lyndon Johnson in the
Senate and the late Speaker Rayburn in the House achieved a unity
within Democratic ranks which reduced the strength of this coali­
tion.
versity will add to its colleges one which 
will serve as a core (1) for the individuals 
of the community (2) and for the university 
itself.
Carnegie College of Arts and Sciences 
for men will be one of the next major steps 
in the development of our leadership as a 
university. As step necessary for excellence 
in the ethical and intellectual hemispheres 
of our university, this college will serve 
as a focus for oiir community of scholars and 
professional men and women.
luneuobI BorEu
The present strength of this coalition may be seen by turning to 
President Kennedy’s recent set back in his effort to create a Depart- 
Paul B. Farrell, Jr. ment of Urban Affairs and Housing. After a brief debate in the 
House, the Kennedy proposal failed by a vote of 264 to 150. There 
were 111 negative Democratic votes, mostly from the southern and 
border states. As for the Republicans, only thirteen voted for the 
President’s plan.
UP!CURTAIN GOING
by Joey
For The Beauty of Its Images
The Cannes Film Festival awarded “L’Avventura” a special 
jury award for the beauty of its images and for cxeating a new 
language for the screen. Certainly this seems enough to justify a 
trip to the Shadyside Theatre. The film is a remarkable, puzzling 
and most unusual one which is bound to disappoint as many viewers 
as it will please.
The director is Michelangelo Antonioni. “The Adventure” is 
the first part of a trilogy which will include “The Night” and 
“Eclipse.” Antonioni’s style is most reminiscent of Alain Resnais’ 
‘‘Hiroshima, Mon Amour” in that the camera moves along as does 
the human eye and often as does the human mind, shifting from 
incident to incident, lighting on one object or person long enough 
to create a minute picture which will eventually become part of 
a unique whole.
When Anna (Lea Massara) disappears from a pleasure cruise, 
her fiance (Gabriele Ferzetti) and her best friend (Monica Vitti) 
try to convince each other for a time that they are interested in 
knowing where and why she has gone. Anna is almost forgotten 
when Ferzetti and Vitti fall in love, but she haunts the pair through 
their memories of her. Miss Vitti as friend Claudia is magnificent. 
She is a beautiful woman who combines the right touches of pathos 
and mystery to the character she portrays. Especially splendid is 
the scene in which she wakes to find her lover gone and runs 
wordless through the hotel looking for him. She finds him in the 
arms of one of the j’oung hotel guests.
Everything in the film from beginning to end seems almost 
too realistic; the dialogue which is filled with the repetitive phrases 
©f modern casual language; the costumes and settings which are 
not copies but originals; the camera work which shows incidents 
not as they seem but as they are. All terribly realistic, and yet one 
leaves the theatre puzzled. The boredom and uselessness of the 
lives of these upper class people have been shown clearly and 
graphically but there must be more here somewhere.
I have been told that the true meaning to “L’Avventura” lies 
in the script’s most frequently repeated words. They are “why” and 
•‘because.”
Anyone interested in the movies as an art form will definitely 
want to see “L’Avventura” probably more than once; for the casual 
hJmgoer the beauty of its images should be enough.
Letters Range 
From Sarcastic 
To Informative
Responsibility 
Is Students
Editor, the Tartan:
In a democracy the responsi­
bility for stopping cheating lies 
mainly on the students, not on 
the faculty, as stated by the 1961 
UAC Report (published in the 
February 14 Tartan). When 
people ask others to make them 
behave they are inviting a po­
lice state. The less we rely on 
others to police our activities 
and the more we take care of 
our own, the freer we can be.
The same students who cry 
“Faculty, protect me from cheat­
ing” will cry “Foul” if the fac­
ulty tries to end drinking on 
campus or student automobiles 
on campus, li students wish to 
be responsible for their behav­
ior, and they should be, they 
should at least cooperate with the 
administration in handling this 
problem if not handle the pro­
blems themselves. Turning over 
the responsibility to the faculty 
is perhaps as immoral as cheat­
ing. Indeed, it is another form 
of cheating.
The serious students intend to 
learn the facts, methods and 
skills needed to become a better 
worker and a better man. No 
amount of cheating will gain 
those ends.
Philip A. Silk 
Advisor, Emerson Club 
Assistant Minister,
First Unitarian Church 
P.S. Have you considered a stu­
dent-run honor system? Contact 
the students at Wesleyan Uni­
versity (Connecticut) for a re­
port on their methods and re­
sults.
[letters continued on page 5]
Mr. Kennedy’s defeat on urban affairs not only represents a vic­
tory for this coalition of conservative Republicans and southern Dem­
ocrats, but it also lets them know the size of ‘their own strength. The 
New York Times last Sunday anticipates that this development is, 
“expected to strengthen the coalition in its stand against other Ken­
nedy programs such as medical care for the aged.”
Criticism is perhaps the easiest endeavor in American poli­
tics. Liberals would be more realistic if the they would accept the 
slow but certain progress of a President able to evaluate the politi­
cal realities of Congress as well as his convictions of what is to be 
done. It is the progress of a President with a firm respect for the 
machinery of American government; but with a desire to utilize 
this machinery to the utmost.
«•CARNEGIE
ARNARE
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE Of TECHNOLOGY
Offices: Ski bo, Room 50, Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Office 
phone, MU. 2-4557; Executive Editor, MU. 1-6550; Business Manager,
MU. 1-2990 and MU. 2-9076; Advertising Manager, MU. 3-0460. Pub­
lished weekly during the school year except holidays and examination 
periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pgh. 13.
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.
Annual Subscription Rate: $2.00
Editor-in-Chief..............................Sally Ganong Farrell
Executive Editor .........*.................. .Allan Kullen
Associate Editor ...........................Martin Ackertnann
Business Manager ...........................Phil Chau
Advertising Manager.......................Phil Chau
News Editor ..................................................Elaine Grumer
Features Editor  .............................................Jan Geisler
Sports Editor .........................................Steve Rothenberg
Layout Editor .................................................Fritz Klinke
Copy Editor....................................................Carol Hosken
Secretarial Editor.........................................Pattie Michael
Circulation Editor .........................................Anne Moser
Photography Editor ...................................Gerald Skalka
Assistant News Editor...................................Colin Jones
New* Staff: Mike Nelson, Sandy Klein, Doris Bell, B. J. Zimmewicz, Mark Appel- 
baum, Mary Ferguson, Jay Ellen Lapidus, Paul Carnahan, Joyce Holy, Kris Kelman, 
Marty Mocre. Margie Park, Fay Landau, Gladys Stalinsky
Features Staff: Margie Park, Marney Gilboy, Betsy Shepler, Sondra Perellis, Marlene
Witman, Sandy Lancaster, Jan Engleman, Andrea Nether, Marion Mulligan, Mary
Dunning. Karen Smith. Irene Grandberg. Cathy O’Dea.
Business and Advertising Staff: Anne Moser, Phil Chau, Charles HoFook, Larry 
Gaffin, Bill Froelich, Ellie Wiseman, Allan Pollock, Jane Klein, Miron Straff. 
Circulation Staff: Mike Greenawalt, George Kahl, Ginny Uliss.
Secretarial Staff: Mary Bveitenstein, B. J. Zimmewicz, Miriam Gillespie, Pat Boggs 
Copy Staff: Margie Park. Pat Michael, Lynn Pasternak, Gale Newcomb, Georgia 
White, Judy Denberg, Miriam Gillespie, Barry Shane.
Circulation Staff: Mike Greenawalt, George Kali, Ginny Uliss 
Lay«ut SW*- Richard Straus, Dale Chcdorow, Allan Pollack

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, February 28, 1962 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN —Page 5
Tartan Article, Editorial 
Receive Student Comments
&
Arguments Exist * 
To Support Testijig
[continued from page 51 
Editor, the Tartan:
Hurrah for the Tartan ! It is a 
pleasure to see that your paper 
favors the rise of responsible con­
servatism which has recently 
gained popularity on many of the 
nation’s campuses. Your article 
“Students See Time To Halt 
Tests” was obviously intended to 
serve as a classic example of the 
faulty reasoning, general disre­
gard of pertinent information, and 
violent emotionalism of our poor 
“^misguided friends, the Enlighten­
ed Liberals.
Since many of our well-meaning 
but sadly confused friends are too 
misguided to realize the intent of 
the Tartan, we would like to as­
sist you briefly in enlightening 
the Enlightened.
Tests By Russia 
Russia has recently made more 
than fifty atomic tests, which ac­
cording to a presidential commit- 
ee of scientific advisors, headed 
by physicist Hans Bethe, afforded 
her the opportunity not only to 
catch up in many of the deadly 
arts of the atom, but actually to 
surpass the \J.S. in some phases. 
Conclusion: Now is the time for 
all Americans to speak out against 
resumed testing.
After this brilliant lesson in 
suicidal logic, consider the facts 
that the U.S. had not tested in 
#^three years, that because she neg­
otiated in good faith, she could 
not, until recently, even begin 
testing, lacking both Aacilities and 
personnel, and finally that Rus­
sia’s recent testing required pre­
paration of at least one year. 
Nevertheless the Student Ad Hoc 
Committee has the audacity to 
claim that testing would raise the 
question of U.S. sincerity. 
Security
% Perhaps the S. A. H. C. is justi­
fied in feeling that U.S. testing 
would damage our image in 
Africa, Japan, and India, but we 
ask — which is more important: 
this image, or our own security 
and the security of freedom 
throughout the world? The S. A. 
H. C. further claims that in these 
areas there was a significan re­
action to Soviet testing. Signifi­
cant indeed; even the liberal 
^»magazine Time states that these 
reactions had little more fervor 
than such anti-U.S. demonstra­
tions as those generated by the 
executions of convicted atom 
spies Julius and Ethel Rosenberg 
and abductor Caryl Chessman. 
Does the Committee feel also that 
Indian Defense Minister Krishna 
Menon’s assertion that Khrush­
chev was forced into the new 
Russian bomb tests by the U.S. is 
significant? Such a remark makes 
us wonder whether Mr. Menon is 
an honorary member of the S. A.
H. C.
The article fails to discuss or 
even to recognize those arguments 
which would suppport testing — 
arguments by such notable men as 
Dr. Edward Teller, Dr. Hans 
Bethe, and Nobel Prize winner 
Glenn Seaborg, who feel the U.S. 
must resume tests if we are to 
«ve our ideals of human dignity 
fcid freedom but who are not so 
fatalistic to see only two alter­
natives: Red or Dead.
Finally the committee’s emo­
tional appeal for demonstrations 
reminded us somewhat of a small 
child who, unable to argue logic­
ally, resorts to throwing tantrums.
Again let us commend the Tar­
tan for exposing the S. A. H. C. 
for what is really is.r
Alan C. Lazer 
Russell D. Pierce
Congress Heiid 
Replies to Editor
Editor, the Tartan:
The appearance of the frank 
editorial in the last issue of the 
Tartan offers me the opportunity 
to define, as I understand it, the
function of Student Government 
in general, and of Student Con- ; 
gress specifically. But first let me j 
state that I strongly believe that 
everything that Student Govern­
ment does, attempts to do, or is 
supposed to do could be done 
without Government. However, if 
Government did not function, all 
of its duties would revert to the 
Administration of the school. It is 
my belief that the majority of the 
students at Tech would prefer to 
deal with Student Government 
than directly with the Adminis­
tration. After considering the 
functions of Government, decide 
for yourself whether or not Gov­
ernment should continue to exist. 
It is you the student, and only 
you, who must decide this ques­
tion.
The primary function of Stu­
dent Government is to represent 
all students and all student organ­
izations, and to the Administra­
tion. The existence of the Stu­
dent Government Constitution at­
tests to the fact that most of the 
students and most of the student 
organizations agreed to support 
the formation and the continu­
ance of Government. The Admin­
istration also agreed to regard 
Student Government as the rep­
resentative group for the student 
body.
Finances
Each year the Administration 
grants to Student Government an 
account ranging from $13,000 to 
$14,000. It is the responsibility of 
Government to see that the ac­
count is split up among the var­
ious student organizations apply­
ing for financial support. It is my 
belief that making such decisions 
within a representative student 
group gives the students the say 
about how much goes where. This 
allows the students to decide 
whether or not the Tartan, for ex­
ample, is read thoroughly enough 
or often enough to warrant re­
ceiving funds. Government is cur­
rently involved in making such 
decisions. 1 might add that Stu­
dent Government is responsible 
for the finances of all recognized 
organizations, hence Govern­
ment’s interest in the current fi­
nancial position of all organiza­
tions.
Judiciary
Another function of Student 
Government is to provide a judi­
cial system such that students
j charged with violations may be 
j tried by a student court instead 
| of being brought before the Dis- 
I ciplinary Committee of the Ad- 
j ministration. For the most part,
! student courts have received all 
cases not considered criminal fel­
onies such as morals crimes and 
so on. As for the few cases which 
were not referred immediately to 
student courts and which were 
not felonies, Student Government 
has represented the students in of­
ficial complaints to the Adminis­
tration. I stress this point: Student 
Government complaint has accom­
plished far more than the individ* 
ual complaint could ever hope to 
accomplish in the matter of in­
justice in student discipline.
Legislative Body 
Student Cbngress is a branch 
of Student Government. As the 
name implies, Congress provides 
the legislative body of the organ- 
[continued on page 6]
let’s do the TWIST”
GtACGO CO
21 GREAT TOBACCOS MAKE 20 WONDERFUL SMOKES!AGED MILD, BLENDED MILD-NOT FILTERED MILD-THEY SATISFY
Whether or not you will be available for employ­
ment in the immediate future, sign for your inter­
view now. Your final undergraduate year affords a 
unique opportunity you may never have again to 
investigate career possibilities with the broadest 
range of companies in your chosen field.
EmermssonC
Regardless of your military obligation, or 
your graduate school plans, come in and 
talk with us now about a career in tech­
nical management. We’ll need good men 
2 and 3 years from now as well as today.
PROCTER & GAMBLE
will be interviewing in the Placement Office for B.S. and 
M.S. degree level ChE, ME, EE, CE, 1M, IA, and Chemists
March 6 and 7
We believe that, to a greater extent than any other com­
pany, Procter & Gamble provides opportunity for advance­
ment on the basis of merit alone.
Procter & Gamble has a consistent record of:
a. Rapid growth and product diversification that con­
tinually provides new technical management career 
opportunities year after year.
b. Employment of engineers directly from the campus 
to fill the needs generated by our expanding business.
c. Providing early responsibility after a training period 
suited to the man’s own needs.
d. Promotion strictly from within on the basis of per­
formance alone.
For summary information and detailed description of work 
areas, see our “Careers in Technical Management” litera­
ture in Placement Library.
An Equal Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

Faff« 6 — THE CARNEGIE TAETAN — Wednesday, February 28, 1962
Student Congress
[continued from page 51 
Ization. Congress Is composed of 
representatives from every major 
group on campus, and the groups 
to be represented are hopefully 
the ones providing the broadcast 
cross section of the student body. 
The members and facilities of 
Student Congress accomplish cer­
tain things each year that the 
student body in the past has con­
sidered significant. These things 
include planning for the Home­
coming festivities (to be known 
as Fall Festival in the future), 
Spring Carnival, Freshman Ori­
entation, all rules and policies for 
use of the Student Union, the 
White Book, the Campus Chest 
Charity Drive, and the Activities 
Keys Awards. The editorial listed 
some items which the editor evi- 
dentally considers insignificant 
such as discussion of the five day 
class policy and of the mid-se­
mester spring vacation. I propose 
that any recommendations that 
were made regarding these items 
were necessary in order to project 
the student point of view and I 
guarantee that the administration 
will hear these recommendations 
and will weit ht them heavily in 
decision making. It is my conten­
tion that the authority of Congress 
extends to any area where the 
students have a point to make. 
And even more important, it has 
not been nor will it be the objec­
tive of Oongress “to appear ef­
fective. Trying to look busy would 
be a move to justify the existence 
of the organization, and because 
better than seventy-five percent 
of the Congress members con­
tinue to attend Congress meetings 
regularly, I don’t feel that we 
have to pretend to anyone. I won­
der why attendance this year is 
higher than it has been for years, 
if it is true that nothin; is going 
on in the meetings.
Purpose of Meetings
Student Congress meetings are 
the time and the place for any 
and all students to give vent to 
their opinions, ideas and com­
plaints. They are always open, 
and if there is a person who feels 
that what Congress does is un­
important, he is welcome to at­
tend the meeting and to propose 
whatever he feels is significant.
It is unfortunate that such an 
editorial has appeared when there 
are no fewer than fifty able stu­
dents who are currently deeply 
interested and deeply involved in 
the affairs of Student Govern­
ment. These people are working 
very, very hard to fulfill an ob­
ligation to the student body. Stu­
dent Government serves the stu­
dent body and only the student 
body. If there is doubt in any 
one’s mind about the ability of 
the involved students, the valid­
ity of government’s goals and ob­
jectives, or the curent affairs of 
government, then questions are 
welcomed. However, no one 
should even consider this possi­
bility of eliminating Government 
unless he is aware of its work­
ings. There are too many people 
sincerely interested in working 
for student Government to allow 
a few dissatisfied (and probably 
noncontributing) students to crit­
icize it into nonexistence. If any­
one feels otherwise, I welcome a 
discussion with him. But to the 
person who persists in criticism, I 
can only say, stop complaining 
and get to work.
Sincerely,
Bill Ellis,
Chairman, Student Congress
Students Explain 
Their Government
Editor, The Tartan,
In reference to the editorial 
published in the last Tartan 
(2/21/62), we feel that an ex­
planation of the actions of Con­
gress during the present school 
year is in order. There are actual­
ly two distinct areas within the 
sphere of influence of Student 
Congress.
The first of these concerns 
topics upon whieh Congress, along 
with the General Faculty and the 
Administration, may make recom- 
i»- ations to the Executive 
Board of the University. Among 
these topics are calendar revis­
ions. class scheduling, and the six- 
day class week. Obviously the 
fin«l decision on these points of 
policy lies solely with the Ex­
ecutive Board. The important 
point here is that Congress’s re­
commendation is not only given, 
but is solicited by the Board. The 
very fact that the Board is in­
terested in the opinion of Con- 
g_ss iicated at these opin­
ions will carry some weight in 
the determinatio of v policy.
Publicity Lacking 
The second area of Congress in­
fluence contains those things 
over which Congress exercises di­
rect control. The efficiency of the 
various Congress committees in 
this area has been a direct cause 
of the absence of publicity of 
func Unfortunately
little attention is given on this 
campus to those things which 
function properly. Seemingly, 
only malfunctions are capable of 
giving rise to active campus in­
terest.
During the past school year ! 
timely Congressional action h r 
guaranteed the continuance of a f 
Fall Weekenfi comparable to i 
He ling, despite the with­
drawal of an official alumni par­
ticipation. Various Congressional 
committees have been responsible 
for supervising the use of the 
. facilities of Skibo. for setting up 
\ and administrating the parking 
: program in the school lots, for 
formulating a program designed 
to facilitate the financial opera­
tions of campus organizations, and 
many other generally unpubliciz 
ed functions. Moreover, Congress 
exercises control over all campus 
organizations, and serves as the 
only official voice of student opin­
ion.
Executive Board
Certainly, there are many as­
pects of university administration 
which could only be controlled by 
the Executive Board, but, -even 
in these matters, an 'attentive ear 
is given to student opinion as 
presented by Congress.
A very imposing number of 
facets of campus life come di­
rectly within the scope of Con­
gress’s authority; however, and 
it is not the ineptitude of Con­
gress which is the cause of the 
alleged lack of enthusiasm. It is 
unfortunate that many students 
are not aware that the operation 
of many facilities taken for 
granted on our campus are a di-
AUTOMOBILE 
FOR SALE
19«2 FIAT 1200 ROADSTER
Mint condition, red with white 
wall tires, radio and all equip­
ment — very few miles. Owner 
must sell — trade acceptable. 
Can be seen in Oakland.
Phone: MA. 1-4905 — Daytime 
MU. 2-1220 — Night
rect result of the continuous ef­
forts of the members of Student 
Congress. Moreover, without the 
perserverance of these individuals, 
the Tech campus would be de­
prived of these many services.
If we are to make publicity 
and praise analogous to efficiency 
and enthusiasm, then Congress
must plead guilty of ineffective­
ness. If, however, efficiency and 
enthusiasm are to be related to 
results and indispensibility, then 
we feel that Congress has been 
unfairly judged.
Mark Appelbaum, 
Tom Ference, 
Jane Scott
SHADYSIDE THEATRE
5518 WALNUT ST.MU. 2-1901
GISTA
•y Ui« iMwwtal
A Mosltlen Product!«K 
tiorring
YURI YAKOVLEV 
JULIA BORISOVA 
Oiroctcd by 
IVAN PYRIEV 
COLOR by DE LUKC
¦aWMMh MUdMt'f 'aat it. wm 4M) I HprmtM««M»it WMimitk«» *H*m¡
3 Special Matinee Performances 
FEBRUARY 27-28 and MARCH 1st
ONE PERFORMANCE DAILY AT 4 P.M.
ADMISSION ONLY 75c t J,“5ed
will UOFHLYUHM aO nCd.WP 
MARCH 5 
ulil CO, Blil nCO,U,CFHP
in Electrical Engineering,
Mechanical Engineering 
and Physics for 
Design and Development 
Specialized Training Program,
Direct Assignment,
Graduate Study Program
See your placement officer now to arrange 
an interview with the RCA representative.
An Equal Opportunity Employer
The Most Trusted Name in Electronics
RADIO CORPORATION OF AMERICA
<v
«
»I

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, February 28, 1962 —THE CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page 1
Unexpected" Describes 
iM Basketball Campaign
By Lynn Adams
Although we have not quite 
reached mid-season we have al­
ready seen the second seated team 
in the school lose to the eigh­
teenth seated one; the fifth seated 
team lost to the twelfth seated 
team in a game where both teams’ 
points combined totaled only 47; 
and three out of the four teams 
ranked fourth in their league re­
main undefeated thus far. Cer­
tainly this is seeing the unfore­
seeable.
IN THE MAJORS 
In the WARRIOR LEAGUE we
find perhaps some of the strang­
est teams in the school. ATO 
• A,” top ranked in the school, 
lias shown that it is a team to be 
feckoned with by defeating TX, 
DU “C” and PKA by scores of 
46-23, 71-14 and 53-28, respec­
tively. Ranked second in this 
league (and^eighth in the school) 
we find a surprisingly strong KS 
team. Although losing three of 
their “starting five” from last 
year’s team, the boys from Clyde 
Street have molded a team, with 
the help of three or four new 
faces, that seems to be nearly as 
strong as last year’s championship 
KS team. Thus far they have de­
feated TX 63-37, PKA 44-34, and 
Vulcans “B” 699-45; they appear 
headed for a “show-down” with 
the Alpha Tau’s. The next three 
slots in the league are held by 
Vulcans “B” 69-45; they appear 
Obelisk team) and PKA. Any of 
these three teams is capable of 
upsetting one of the leaders for 
they have at times played very 
% good ball. All three, however, are 
quite erratic. Rounding out the 
league we have TX and DU C 
TX is a rapidly improving team, 
having lost its last outing to PKA 
by only one point 34-33. DU G Is 
—well, they’re having a heck of a 
lot of fun anyway.
CELTIC
The biggest surprisei n basket­
ball (at least to all who are not 
Beta Sigs) occurred in the CEL 
l> TIC LEAGUE when a fired-up 
BSR team defeated the league- 
leading TDP “Blues” (41-33) In 
one of the roughest games played 
this season. Prior to this TDP, sec­
ond seated in the school, had de­
feated Vulcan “M” 48-27 and DU 
“B” 39-17, while BSR, ranked 
fifth in the league, had lost to the 
warriors 43-26 and the Met Grads 
36-31. Ranked second in the 
league we find a rapidly improv 
ing Met Grad team which has ac- 
quired a 3-0 record at the expense 
of Vulcans “M,” BSR and DTD. 
The third ranked team DTD has, 
for various reasons, been unable 
to get rolling and at present is 
sitting on a disappointing 0-3 
record. Emerging from the fourth 
spot in the league we find a play- 
oil contender in the Warriors, a 
team composed mainly of fresh­
men and sophomores. Thus far 
. they have defeated BSR ^3-26, 
^ DTD 30-19, and DU “B 54-18, 
and we can be certain that they 
will be gunning for TDP and the 
Met Grads. In the fifth slot we 
find a Beta Sig team that may 
be real “hard to beat” since its 
big upset of TDP. The remaining 
two teams are Vulcan “M’ and 
DU “B” both of which are rela­
tively harmless.
LAKER LEAGUE 
The LAKER LEAGUE seems to 
r be the only league where results 
are nearly as expected. The top 
spot in the league is help by the 
“towering” Grad Eagles, who have 
thus far defeated KS “B” 74-30, 
BTP “B” 72-21, and the Plebes 
€0-18 Second ranked and also un­
defeated we find another tall 
team, Vulcans “G.” They have 
also compiled a 3-0 record by de­
feating KS “B” 61-26, Plebes 36-
21 and PKT 46-42. Third ranked 
PKT has already lost to fourth 
ranked SN and second ranked 
Vulcans “G,” thus, it is unlikely 
that they can obtain a playoff 
berth. However, fourth ranked SN 
is a dark horse contender for 
league recognition, having al­
ready defeated PKT 49-36 and the 
Plebes 63-9. They might be the 
“team to watch” in the Laker 
League. The bottom of the league 
is composed of the Plebes, BTP 
“B” and KS “B.” These three 
teams will battle for fifth place; 
at present it appears as though 
the Plebes have the edge, having 
already defeated KS “B” 46-29.
ROYAL LEAGUE 
Upsets are also a part of the 
ROYAL LEAGUE, and we are 
not exactly sure which two teams 
will finish at the top. At present 
it seems likely that a fine shoot­
ing Vulcan “W'* team will nail 
down the upper berth, for thus 
far they have defeated the Arch­
itects 69-44 and ATO “T” 70-30 
and were not hard pressed in do­
ing so. Second place in the league 
seems to be up for grabs at the 
moment. DU “A” (fifth seated in
the school) seemed to have claim­
ed it only to relinquish it to SAE 
upon bing upset by BTP “A” 26- 
21, in one of the sloppiest ball 
handling games played this year. 
If DU defeats SAE when they 
meet, we would then have a 
three-way tie for second place. 
However, SAE might surprise DU 
and Vulcans “W” for they seem 
to have a very "scrappy” team. 
Fighting for league un-supremacy 
we have the Architects and ATO 
“T.” At present neither team has 
been abdle to crash the win col­umn. ,
IN THE MINORS
In the Minor league it is nearly 
impossible to pick a winner. The 
games, as a rule, are low scoring 
and very close, and many over­
time games have resulted thus far. 
It seems as though a winner is 
determined when one team acci­
dentally takes the lead and then 
the game ends.
For those of you who wish to 
see basketball at its worst, 1 
urge you to watch the action on 
the far court in the gym. The 
teams to watch in the Minors 
might be the Whales, EE Grads, 
Corns, Elbows and KS Owls.
MAJORS 
Warrior
Met Grads Warriors 
TDP “Blue” BSR 
DU “B" 
DTD
Vulcan “M”
Grad EaglesVulcan "G"’
SNPKT
Plebes
BTP •B”
KS “B”
W’Vulean 
SAE
BTP “A*' 
DU “A” 
ATO “T* Architects
Whales 
KS Owls 
Dunkers 
PKT “J” 
Delts '"J” 
PKA “B” 
TDP “J”
E. E. Grads 
Corns 
Elbows 
ATO “D” 
SAE “J” 
Heavies 
SN “J”
Celtic
l.aker
R»y»l
MINORS
Piston«
S. GREEN
All Watches Electronically Timed
EXPERT WATCH AND 
JEWELRY REPAIRS 
123 Oakland Ave. MU 1-6109
Tartan Sportsmen 
Win High Factors
For the fall semester the bask­
etball squad of 20 men achieved 
an academic average of 2.33. The 
all men’s average for the sa'.ae 
period was 2.294.
There were four members of the 
squad with avarages of 3 or bet­
ter. They are: Paul Rizzo 3.56, 
Andris Niedra, 3.41, Joseph 
Thomas 3.03, and John Blue, 3.00.
Tor Quality 
and Selection
See Our Display of 
Domestic and Imported 
Pipes and Pipe Tobaccos
Briar Bowl
3725 Forbes Ave.
srh.. Pa.
ATO "A’
KS "A”
Vulcan B‘PKA
Flyers
DU “CT
GIRLS
ARE YOU LOOKING FOR A SUMMER POSITION?
Applicants are now being considered for the 1962 camp season. 
If you can organize and teach one of the following contact Miss 
I. Levy, The Marylander Apts. 130, Baltimore 18, Maryland: 
Arts and Crafts, Choral Director, Trampoline, Red Cross Water­
front Instructor, Tennis, Golf, Baton Twirling and Marching, Tumbling, or Camp Secretary.
Si?-softens"**, y°Ur taste—«SOS every puff
I
Ci• A Salem cigarette brings you the 
taste of Springtime... so soft and refreshing. Puff after puff... pack after pack.?? 
Salem smokes fresh and flavorful every time. Smoke refreshed .T. smoke Salem!
menthol fresh • rich tobacco taste • modern filter, too
Created by K. J. Itynoldt Tofaotto Company

---------------------------------------------------

“Now you boys see that 
my Jimmie gets to bed 
by 10:30, won't you?" i
ARRRGH!
LUCKY STRIKE 
presents: jLUCKYJUFFERS
' We wanted you to be the first 
to know, Mother.. .Mother? Mother?"
ttPARENTS'
WEEKEND"
“Mom! Pop! Come on in 
and meet my roommates
“I’m afraid your fathers a little 
burned up about your grades, dear.
BREAKING THE ICE FOR DAD. When Dad comes to visit, help him bridge the 
years with questions like this: “These old ivy-covered buildings never change, 
do they?” “Say, aren’t those girls the cat’s meow?” “Dad, do you remember how 
great cigarettes used to taste?” Then inform your Dad that college students still 
smoke more Luckies than any other regular. He will realize that times haven’t 
really changed. He’ll be in such good, youthful spirits that he’ll buy you a carton.
CHANGE TO LUCKIES CAR NEG ISTE GCIGE USO C FHCANEL
Product of Jvis our middle name© A. T C<H.
The play was published before 
the return of the General as head 
of the French government. His 
latest play, “Un Prince,” deals 
with a head of State and his con­
flicts. Mi'. Giraudoux’s novels in­
clude Pas Assez de Silence, Le
Mauvais Charme and Le Pays 
sans Chemins.
Presently secretary general of 
a research study center concerned 
with problems of a united Europe, 
Mr. Giraudoux speaks seven lan­
guages.
MhtfiFTa TmtfiFT y gFWvhW,m T,hvmt,T
<SUNOC0> °n-CAMPUS aUNULU |NTERviEWS
MARCH 2nd
CHEM.Ch.E.ME.E.E.TECH. ECON.
•••••
BUS. ADM.ACCTG.ECON.INO. MGMT./ADMIN.
•i •••
8 —THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday. February 28, 1962
Finance Committee 
Insures Solvency 
Of Organizations
The Student Congress finance 
committee exists as one of the 
several functional subcommittees j 
of Student Congress and is re­
sponsible for the financial matters i 
of student government. Working 
in conjunction with the treasurer 
of student government and Ex­
executive Council, the finance 
committee is charged with insuring 
the financial solvency of all cam­
pus extra - curricular organiza­
tions.
The finance committee has pur­
sued this responsibility in two 
manners. Initially, it has carried 
out the procedure through which 
all school-subsidized organizations 
apply for institutional funds. 
Budgets are called from these or­
ganizations, estimates of increaes 
are made by the committee chair­
man and the treasurer of student 
government. These recommenda­
tions are submitted to the admin-
Tartan Swimmers Are Defeated By 
Powerful Slippery Rock Rockets
The Tech swimmers could not 
cope with the power of Slippery 
Rock as they lost to the Rockets 
at Slippery Rock on Tuesday, 
February 20. by the score of 64- 
31.
Steve Strasen led the Tartans 
as he captured firsts in the 160 
yd., individual medley (1:57), and 
the 200 yd. breast stroke (2.443): 
Tom Vandersalm took the only 
other Tech first in the 440 free­
style (5:2S4) finished second in 
the 220 freestyle. Other second 
places by Tech were captured by 
Joe Oldfield in the diving and by 
Len Lester in the 200 backstroke. 
The Rockets were led by their 
co-captain, N.A.I.A. (National As­
sociation of Intercollegiate Ath­
letics), 1961, Small College All- 
American, Pat Madden who cap­
tured three first places, the 220 
freestyle (2:194), 200 butterfly,
(2:269) and 200 backstroke 
(2:371) a superb achievement.
The meet scheduled against 
Case Tech for Saturday, February 
24, had to be postponed until Sat­
urday, March 10, because Case 
had traveling difficulties.
Carnegie Tech will host the
1962 Penn-Ohio Confe ence 
Championships at Tech pool on 
Saturday March 3. Preliminaries 
in the 50 and 100 free style and 
the diving will begin at 10:00 
a.m. The final events will begin 
at 2:00 p.m. Grove City will be 
| out to defend its title against 
Slippery Rock, the most powerful 
challenger. Carnegie Tech, West­
minster, and Fenn, all evenly 
matched, should provide very ex­
citing competition for third place.
Beta’s Snatch
istration for appoval, and finally 
the lump sum which is allotted to 
student organizations is appor­
tioned among them.
The financ* committee has re­
cently initiated another procedure 
which will facilitate the financial 
surveillance of all campus extra­
curricular organizations. A system 
of organizational reporting is de­
signed to make good financial 
risks of each organization and to 
avoid the debtedness which has 
plagued several of them in the 
past.
The chairman of the finance 
committee is appointed by the 
chairman of Student Congress. 
The committee membership is de­
rived both from Congress mem­
bers and the student body in gen­
eral.
Noted Playwright 
Giraudoux Speaks 
On French Theater
Jean-Pierre Giraudoux, well 
known French playwrite and 
novelist, delivered an address on 
“The New Theater of France,” 
Monday, February 26, in the Car­
negie Theater, College of Fine 
Arts.
Mr. Giraudoux, founder of the 
“Prix Medicis,” one of the most 
distinguished literary prizes in 
France, was born in Paris and 
studied at the Lycee Henry IV, 
and at Oxford at the New Col­
lege.
Before World War II, he organ­
ized the Damubian Center in an 
effort to check the compromise 
politics of the French government, 
expressed in the Munich agree­
ment with Hitler. He was a 
marine officer of the Free French 
forces of General de Gaulle and 
was one of the junior collabora­
tors of the General. After the 
war, he became the youngest 
member of Parliament in the 
French National Constitutional 
Assembly.
He had his first play, “L’Ecole 
des Hommes,” produced in 1951. 
In 1958 “Un Roi,” a play inspired 
by the departure from politics of 
General de Gaulle was published.
1M Bowling, Croivn 
From Grad Eagles
The bowling season was cli­
maxed on Saturday, February 17, 
1962, by the championship match 
between the Grad Eagles and Beta 
Theta Pi. The match, which was 
decided in the tenth frame of the 
final game, and the championship 
went to the Beta’s by 2483-2449.
The semi-finals pitted Obelisk 
against the Grade Eagles and 
BTP versus DTD. The Grads won 
handily with the help of Swish­
er’s record 656 series. The Betas 
romped over the Delts by 462 
pins.
In the Championship contest, 
the Betas were up 69 pins after 
the first two games yet had to 
rally in the tenth frame of the 
final game to clinch the victory. 
The team consisted of Dervaes, 
Gingery, Allen, McLay, Beaty and 
Kornblatt.
A number of outstanding bowl­
ers competed this year. Swisher 
of the Grad Eagles was named 
MVP with a 184 average. The all­
school team includes Swisher of 
the Grads, Pellegrino of Phi Kap­
pa Theta, Carey of Obelisk, Scott 
of DTD, and Dervaes of BTP. At 
a date to be announced, the top 
twelve bowlers will compete in 
a tournament to qualify for a trip 
to Des Moines, Iowa, to repre­
sent Tech at the National Amer­
ican Bowling Congress Champion­
ships.
• Indicates Permanent and Summer Positions Available In These Field*«
xfTf, cihF ­pWPm&mt, iGGfPm tiB 
,i TPlmvhpm Wt W­­ift,&mt,
If personal interview is inconvenient, write to College Relations Division
SUN OIL COMPANY
1608 Walnut Street Philadelphia 3, Penna.
