PLAID LASSIES MEET 
WESTMINSTER IN 
BASKET BALL FINAL
ANNUAL HOP OF THE 
SECOND-YEAR MEN 
IN ARTS FOYER FRIDAY
VOL. XVII. NO. 23CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY, MARCH 7, 1923
DRIVE TO AID 
EUROPEANS IN 
UNIVERSITIES
Student Friendship Drive to 
Raise Funds For Needy 
Students in Europe—Tags 
Will Be Sold to Students
DRIVE MARCH 14-15
In accordance with the custom es­
tablished last year, the Student 
Friendship Fund Drive will he lield 
March 14-15, beginning with the Gen­
eral Assembly at the Music Hali. At 
that time Mr. Morgan P. Noyes, who 
has just returned from relief work 
in Central Europe and Russia will 
present some of the conditions ob­
taining there among the students who 
in spite of adverse conditions and 
practical starvation still retain their 
courage and continue their studies to 
the best of their abilities.
A general committee has been ap­
pointed to take charge of this drive, 
which will continue for twenty-tour 
hours only. This committee, with the 
aid of assistants from all four schools 
will sell tags to the student body, 
the faculty, and the members of the 
Administration. The membership is 
as follows: General Chairman, Edw.
A. Brand; Margaret Morrison, Lil­
lian Cowan, Chr., Hortense Purdy, 
Blair Jessop, Isabel Sowash; Arts, 
Gerge Allison, Chr., Gretchen Hoff­
man, Dorothy iStehmellhorst, Victor 
Stromquist; Industries, D. Gottwals, 
Clir., R. E. Hughes, Bruce Powrie, 
Martin Rohrbaek; Engineering, Paul 
Schucker, Chr., .T. N. Griggs, D. A. 
Schoerke, Ed. Gilbert.
The Student Friendship Fund is 
one of the most worthy of all efforts 
growing out of the war, and deserves 
the unstinting support of every col­
lege man and woman in this country. 
Conditions in Europe are almost un­
believable when compared with the 
conditions obtaining in this country, 
yet in spite of the lack of clothing, 
(Continued on Page Four.)
To Submit Gym Plans 
For Bids Next Week
PIONEER WRITERS GUILD 
OFFERS $600 IN PRIZES
FOR ORIGINAL WRITINGS
The Pioneer Writers Guild of Amer­
ica, 9 Charles street, New York City, 
will award prizes amounting to 
$600.00 to writers’ and artists’ whose 
work has never been published. The 
award will be divided as follows: Four 
prizes of $150.00 each for the best 
short story, poetp, play and cartoon. 
This contest closes June 30th, 1923. 
For rules, address the Guild.
DR. HARKINS WILL 
SPEAK THIS WEEK
Will Give Lectures on His 
Discoveries Regarding 
Atom Structure
Advances made in the study of the 
atom—the smallest known unit of 
matter—will be discussed in a course 
of three lectures March 7, S and 9, 
here, by Dr. William Draper Harkins 
of Chicago University. No chemist in 
the country has gone as far as this' 
eminent Chicago professor in atomic 
studies. Recently he startled scien­
tific circles by producing moving pic­
tures showing collisions of nuclei in 
atoms, and when it is considered that 
it takes 100,000,000 atoms laid side by 
side to make a line an inch long, Dr. 
H&rkins’ feat seems almost impossi­
ble.
Through his comprehensive re­
search work, and from the analysis of 
his moving pictures, this scientist has 
made some important discoveries, ad­
vancing the possibilities of applied 
physical chemistry immeasurably. A 
description of the more recent discov­
eries in the constitution of atom will 
be the basis of his lecture series, en­
titled "Isotopes, and the Building and 
Disintegration of Atom.”
Dr. Baker has invited the public to 
hear Dr. Harkins, particularly the 
members of the various scientific or­
ganizations in the city. The discus­
sions will be given at 8:30 each even­
ing in Room 209, College of Engineer­
ing.
Weighty Problems Met By 
Seniors in Building Fence
CAMPUS WEEK 
PROGRAM OUT 
VERY SHORTLY
STUDENTS OF MUSIC DEPT.
TO GIVE RECITAL IN LITTLE 
THEATER SUNDAY EVE. 8:15
With Appointment of Person­
nel of Sub-Committees By 
Chairmen, Plans Start to j 
Move Rapidly
BIG TIME IS PLANNED
Students Should Transplant 
Trees on Steele Estate
That the plans for the new gym 
will be finished by Saturday and; may 
at once be submitted for bids, was 
the statement of Architect Horn- 
bostel in a report made to the Gym 
Committee recently 
At this rate ol’ progress, if the 
bids are at all favorable and the ac­
cepted contractor moves witll the cus­
tomary speed, the ground would prob­
ably be broken shortly after Easter.
Such a condition raises the ques­
tion as to the fate of the trees on 
the Steele property-'. They must be 
removed and they can be transplant­
ed, why not utilize them for such a 
useful purpose as to improve the ap­
pearance of our campus which is not 
overburdened with trees?
The Plebes, who have been treat­
ed1 with unusual leniency this year, 
might device some beneficial exercise 
and acquire, a practical knowledge of 
constructive forestry if permitted to 
move these trees under the proper 
supervision and could in later years 
point out their efforts towards beau­
tifying the campus
Or, better yet, assign a tree to 
each class and hold them responsi­
ble for its maintenance and welfare. 
If such a custom were perpetuated 
it would not only establish a new 
tradition, but benefit the school.
The location for which the trees 
are destined is worth consideration. 
Should they be placed along the cut 
or around the Senior fence td pro­
tect the worthy upperclassmen from 
sunstroke?
An Arbor Day should be declared 
and a portion thereof set aside for 
this transplantation, thereby serving 
greatly to revive the old Carnegie 
spirit which usually undergoes stag­
nation every spring.
ARTS COLLEGE PLEBES 
ARE NOW TRIED BY JURY
The Senior fence committee of the 
Senior class reported that due to 
their inability to secure lumber of the 
proper proportions, they have been 
unable to proceed with its construc­
tion.
Chairman Sprinkle reported that 
the best Pittsburgh lumbermen could 
offer him was telephone pole stock, 
but that this was not of sufficient di­
ameter to sustain some of the loads it 
may be subjected to. The suggestion 
of substituting steel I beams was ob­
jected to on the grounds that initials 
could not be readily carved in them. 
The committee is now awaiting an 
answer frome some California firm 
dealing in sequoias.
The matter of keeping underclass­
men off the fence also received con­
siderable discussion. Barbed wire 
was considered inefficient to keep off 
anyone who had ever been initiated 
into a fraternity, and using electrical­
ly charged wires was declared too 
shocking by the girls.
Etiquette and the rights of Maggie 
Murphs to sit on the fence were con­
sidered and shall be in accordance 
with "Robert’s Rules of Order.” The 
ladies, however, shall be requested to 
wear only cotton hose while exercis­
ing their privileges as Seniors.
Finally, it was unanimously decided 
that public parking be permitted after 
dusk providing the participants ap­
peared in pairs, and that stagging at 
this time was absolutely prohibited.
PUPPET HOLDS ELECTION
FOR NEW STAFF MEMBERS
The heavy hand of justice has land­
ed a stunning blow on the Art’s 
plebes in the form of a new and thor­
ough trial system which was formally 
installed and tested last Thursday by 
the upper-classmen of that school.
After a long and careful delibera­
tion the United States Supreme Court 
was chosen as a model for the new 
system, and it was formulated accord­
ingly. In the establishment of this 
body of justice the supreme officer is 
a judge, who is checked in his deci­
sions by a jury composed of twelve of 
the most noble and worthy of the 
Junior and Senior classes.
The Plebe is led to the stand and 
sworn in with a most solemn and awe­
inspiring procedure, after which the 
wheels of justice are set in motion. 
His faults and short-comings are most 
unerringly pointed out by a prosecut­
ing attorney who leaves not a stone 
unturned in his untiring efforts to 
convict the unfortunate Plebe. After 
the victim has been lowered to the 
(Continued on Page Two.)
Last Friday afternoon the Puppet 
staff held a meeting in the Puppet 
office in the Industries building. At 
this time the material for the next is­
sue .namely the “Tootin’,” was dis­
cussed. Most of the time was taken 
up with the election of some new men 
to the staff.
These new men elected were as fol­
lows:
Exchange editor, L. R. Brown; ed­
itorial staff, F. C. Smith; advertising 
staff, J. F. Smaney, B. B’roudy, H. 
Larew; circulation staff, Miss Zabella 
Davies, A. W. Bahr, J. C. Major, C. M. 
Walter, M. Scrimgeour, M. Matter, E. 
Good, F. Brook; art staff, W. Szold, 
B. J. Mahon, S. R. Wilson, R. Reamey, 
T. Lloyd.
With the appointment of the va­
rious sub-committees of the, Campus 
Week Committee, developments, are 
expected to be rapid towards a com- 
pletition of the program. To date, 
only fundamentals have occupied the 
time of the General Committee meet­
ings, such, as acquainting the differ­
ent chairmen of their duties, and urg­
ing an early selection of the men 
whom they expect to have working 
for them. This selection has been 
slow because it is very necessary to 
have men who are well acquainted 
with their line of work. But at last 
the various chairmen are ready to an­
nounce their choices. They are as fol­
lows:
General Planning—T. Barney, chair­
man; Thelma Leatlierman, J. D. Ho­
gan, C. Cooper, O’Callalian, J. R. Reed, 
and Harding Thayer.
Social—Earl Gross, chairman; 
Charles Janes, J. Holfer Sload, E. P. 
Couse, F. C. Hoenninger, Edith 
iSchultin, Louise Colebrook.
Sweepstakes—Ii. D. Sonneman, 
Chairman; Mary Heilig, D. R. Wil­
liams, W. B. Cunningham, W. A. An­
derson.
Electrical Construction—E. A. 
Brand, chairman; W. S. Andrews, Os­
car Horger, Hugh Sprinkle, K. T. 
Milne, T. C. Lloyd, John Coleman, 
Walter Lyman, R. G. Garbett.
Publicity—H. F. Simpson, chair­
man; F. C. Smith, Sam Dyke, H. I-I. 
Wilson, E. P. Couse, G. L. Brugge- 
meier.
Qualification—T. N. Griggs, chair­
man; Jane Markell, Author Putt, E. 
A. Bergland, Milo Matter.
Vaudeville—O. B. Newman, chair­
man; Mary Brown, Herbert Polesie, 
Harry Hamilton.
Construction—Cy Comfort, cliair- 
(Continued on Page Two.)
MECHANICALS GET NEW 
REFRIGERATING PLANT
The Department of Mechanical En­
gineering has just completed the in­
stallation in their laboratory of an 
ammonia compression system of re­
frigeration which is perhaps one of 
the most complete experimental 
plants. of its kind in the country.
The compressor is 4x5 inches, two 
cylinder, single acting, belt driven 
and can be operated at variable spoed. 
It is provided with a special indicat­
ing mochanism so designed as to pro­
duce very little increase in the clear­
ance of the compressor.
The compressor is provided with 
both double pipe and shell and tube 
ammonia condensers and piped so 
that comparisons can be made be­
tween the two types.
The brine tank contains nine 50 
pound cans,1 and cooling can be car­
ried out by either the dry or flooded 
systems of expansion.
An ingenious method has been 
worked out for measuring the amount 
(Continued on Page Two.)
The recitals given by the students 
of the Department of Music have been 
well attended, although the audience 
usually is composed mostly of inter­
ested outsiders. Students should 
show more interest in the work of 
the Department.
The program for Sunday is as fol­
lows :
| 1. Handel-Guilmant. Organ Concer­
to, No. 10, in D minor 
Adagio 
Allegro 
Aria
Allegro (quasi presto)
Matthew N. Frey 
Golterman. Andante, from ’Cello 
Concerto in A minor 
Saint-Saëns. Allegro appassionata 
Dorothy Trombley 
Beethoven. Senate Pathetique, 
Op. 13
Grave—allegro di molto e con 
brio
Adagio cantabile 
Rondo, allegro
Alice ¡Kirk 
Young. Phyllis hath such charm­
ing graces
(An Old English Melody) 
Gertrude Fraley 
Dvorak. Trio for Piano, Violin 
and ’Cello, Op. 90 (Dumlcy)
First Movement 
Alice Kirk, Francis Kleyle, George 
Wilkins 
Accompanists 
Gertrude Robinson Dodds, Matthew 
N, Frey.
2.
3.
4.
5.
SPHINX INSTALLED 
AS MORTAR BOARD
SOPH HOP TO BE 
GIVEN IN ARTS 
FOYER MARCH 9
LOCAL BRANCH OF LEAGUE 
OF WOMEN VOTERS MEET
IN M. M. C. COLLEGE AT 4:30
The Carnegie Tech branch of tho 
League of Women Voters will hold ft 
meeting Wednesday, March 7, at 4:30 
j in the M. M. C. recroatlon hall. A 
------------------ student program will bo presented at
Mason - Dixon Seven Will i11,18 tlmo i,l3°' Any gh'ls "'ho !l™ ln'terosted In the league are invited toPlay. Obie Newman, Doc attend.
Taylor, Bess Johnson, Tack
Bums to Entertain c;354 SENIORS MAY
INFORMAL OCCASION
National Women’s Honorary 
Initiation Saturday at 
Schenley
R. 0. T. C. OPENS RANGE
ANOTHER NEW SONG WILL 
APPEAR IN SONG BOOK
The following song was written by 
one of Carnegie’s co-eds and is ac­
companied by snappy music which 
makes the song an ideal one to march 
to. It is one of the many of the songs 
to be in the new song book, which the 
song book committee is working hard 
to produce.
Hall- To Carnegie!
Words and music by Lenore Davies, 
Forbes Hall.
Hail to Carnegie- We love her so— 
Her sons and daughters where’er we 
go.
Down in old Pittsburgh, she stands so 
fair.
Four schools united—symbol of friend­
ship there- 
Symbol of friendship there.
The R. O. T. C. rifle range has 
been completed in the sub-basement 
of the Margaret Morrison building, 
and classes are now in session on 
the range. The Freshmen who are 
taking the riile marksmanship class 
shoot at regular periods, and the R, 
O. T. C. rifle team, in charge of
Colonel Cunningham, practices there 
in the intervals.
The rifle team has the privilege of 
shooting in the National Match for 
R. O. T. C. units, and with the ma­
terial that is out, it should make a 
favorable showing. The medal, or
cup, is in possession of the unit' at 
Penn State, so it would be a greater 
achievement to win it this year, for
we could have the pleasure of re­
lieving State of the burden. Thi 
match is scheduled for the 15th of 
March and judgment comes as soon 
after that date as possible.
MAUST, FORMER TARTAN NEWS 
EDITOR RETURNS FROM MEXICO
“Jake” Maust, former news editor 
of the Carnegie Tartan, has returned 
from a trip to Mexico. He left school 
about the second week of January and 
accepted a job with a gold mining 
company in Central Mexico. Upon 
arriving there “Jake” was taken sick 
with a slight attack of pneumonia and 
due to the high altitude he was con­
fined to the hospital. The doctors ad­
vised him to go back to the States-and 
as soon as he was able he left for 
Texas where he spent a few weeks 
and later returned to Pittsburgh. 
“Jake” Is now living at the Woodlawn 
Club and attending the University of 
Pittsburgh, where he is a Junior in 
Mining Engineering.
The installation of Sphinx as the 
Carnegie chapter of Mortar Board, 
the only national Senior women's 
honorary, took place in the French 
room of the Hotel Schenley, Saturday 
evening, March 3, at seven o’clock. 
The 1923 chapter of Sphinx is tho 
charter chapter of Mortar Board on 
this campus. As honorary membors 
of the chapter, Mias Mary B.. Breed, 
director of the M. M. Collogo, and 
Miss Mary Louise1 Brown, dean of 
women, were installed with tho active 
members; Priscilla j Allison, Francos 
Burrows, Lillian Coleman, Lillian 
Cowan, Helen Duncombe, Ray Fine, 
Dorothy Grant, Marlon Jones, Mar­
guerite Harmon, I-Iortonse Purdy. 
Eleanora Shpmberg and Sarah West 
Johnson.
Immediately following the Installa­
tion a formal banquet for both tho ac­
tive and alumnae membors of Mortar 
Board. Guests of honor at tho ban­
quet were Miss Ann Cornell, last year 
the national president of Mortar 
Board, who installed tho chapter, and 
Miss Louise Davis of Clovoland, Ohio. 
Miss Dorothy Grant presided as toast- 
mistress.
After tho banquet tho aluinnao 
members of Sphinx who wore present, 
were initiated into Mortar Board. The 
alumnae present from the 1921 group 
were Sara Floyd, Anna Dice, Margarot 
Giffen, Floronce Langwortliy, Mildred 
Spenser, Agnes Russell, Louiso Ir­
win, and from tho 1922 chapter, Char­
lotte Shuman, Katherine Shuman, 
Dorothy Cummings, Mabel Snydor, 
Isabelle Winner, Virginia Pentz.
After dinner speakers: Miss Breed, 
Miss Brown, Miss Cornell, Miss Alli­
son and Miss Harmon.
VOTE TODAY IN SCIENCE 
STAG SMOKER ELECTIONS
On Friday night, March 9, the 
Class of ’25 will lay aside their 
books, forget their first semester’s 
marks and wend their way to the 
Arts Foyer, /where King Frivolty and 
the Mason Dixon Seven will reign 
supreme from 9 p. m. until 1 a. m., 
at the annual Soph Hop'.
Rehearsals of tho entertainments 
have been running for a week, so 
that the stunts will be up to the 
mark. Besse Johnson, famed as 
“Rita,” will appear In a skit with 
Jack Burns. The details of the play- 
ette have been withheld, for it is to 
bo in the nature of a novelty, and 
hence a surprise. “Doc” Taylor and 
O. B. Newman have combined forces 
and will put on their stunt, which 
will be a mixture of “song and 
dance,” and will bo designed to 
please the audience as Sophomores. 
A number of persons have put on 
stunts for tho approval of the com­
mittee, hut the degree of ability has 
been such that it was hard' to de­
termine wrho should! bo the ono to 
put oh the third feature of tho pro­
gram. As a final word, Harry Ham­
ilton, who is directing tho produc­
tions; says he lias tho “big noise' 
all right, but he is going te keep it 
under his hat.
The Hop will be informal and will 
bogln at 9:00 and will last until 
1:00. There liavo boon many ques­
tions asked about the number of 
dances planned, and Chairman Good 
has statod that it. will bo safo to 
book fourteen, with a chance of ono 
or two extras. Programs will bo giv­
en to each person at (ho door, and 
thoy will const! tu to tho favors, be­
ing leather folders, ombossed with 
tho Carnogio Tech Soal, and tho 
Class Numeral. These programs will 
(Continued on Pago Three)
GRADUATE IN JUNE
Engineering College Leads, 
Followed By M.M., Arts 
and Industries
S. A. B. STARTS CAMPAIGN 
FOR INSIGNIA DESIGNS
The Student Activities Board re­
cently inaugurated a campaign and 
competition for designs of now In­
signia for non-athletic activities. All 
students aro requested to submit de­
signs which thoy may liavo aa soon as 
possible so that tho order for tho 
first awards can bo m'ado this spring.
Tho preaont form of Insignia la not 
distinctive. Those glvon to musical 
club mon are confused with other», 
such aa those of tho Carnogio Tartan, 
and tho Thistle, unlosa cloaoly scruti­
nized. Furthermore, the prosont form 
Is quite common among other col­
leges and among high schools. Tho 
purpose of tho competition is to glvo 
Carnegie non-athletic activities dis­
tinctive insignias.
The program to bo followed is di­
vided into three general heads, work 
on insignia for Musical Organizations,1 
Student Publications, and Student 
Government Organizations.
Communications should be ad­
dressed to C. W. Jeffers,
Don’t forget to vote today for the 
Science stag election. Read the bal­
lot carefully and make the right 
lections. All students in the College 
of Engineering are allowed to vote. 
So after filling in the ballot, place it 
in one of the ballot boxes in the 
Science building. Handsome prizes 
are being selected by the committee 
for the men that are selected. So be 
sure the prizes go to right men.
The date for the smoker has been 
set for Saturday, March 17, and every­
thing points towards a bigger and 
better Science stag smoker than ever 
before. The committees for the va­
rious class stunts have been appoint­
ed and each class is trying to arrange 
the best stunt.
Arrangements are being made to 
serve the eats in the Men’s Commons 
this year. Tags will be placed on 
sale this week so have your 35 cents 
ready and buy your tag.
CONCERT AND DANCE TO 
BE GIVEN BY GLEE CLUB
Watch for the date, for tliia year 
the girls are going to put on a concert 
for all Carnegie. The concert will bo 
followed by a dance in tho Union, PL 
everybody will be pleased. Thoao 
who do not enjoy clasalcal mualc can 
come and hear real "jazz” at tho 
dance.
The clubs this year have been very 
well supported by both Arta and Mar­
garet Morrison, Mr. Ruhl, the leader, 
has personally conducted all the con­
certs and has done many things to 
keep up the interest.
A large hall has been secured and 
the committee iB counting on the sup­
port of the student body and their 
friends to put the concert across.
LUTHERANS GET HOUSE
Last Friday night about thirty-five 
students of the schools of Pittsburgh 
held a meeting at the new Lutheran 
Student House at 200 N. Dithridge 
street, and formed the Lutheran Stu­
dents Club of Pittsburgh. This comes 
as a fitting climax to the efforts of 
people Interested in the welfare of 
the Lutheran students at the Pitts­
burgh schools. From now on the stu­
dents will themselves regulate all ac­
tivities.
It is fitting to give a little review 
of the happenings of former years 
which led up to this. In November, 
1914, the first student census was held 
here but nothing was done, interest 
being lacking among the students. 
The following October however, the 
first meeting was held and was well 
attended. From that time on the 
work grew steadily until the war in­
terrupted the activities. All the offi­
cers and over half of the male mem­
bers were in the overseas service. 
After the war the work was again re­
sumed, but was greatly handicapped 
(Continued on Page Three)
When next. June conies around and 
tho time comes for all good Seniors 
to go out into the world and its 
work, three hundred and fifty-four 
will be tho share that Carnegie will 
furnish. Of this number, the Science 
School will furnish 135 graduates, 
tho Margaret Morrison College 93, 
the Arts School 69, and the Indus­
tries School 57.
As can be easily soon from tho 
statistics given below, the most pop­
ular courses are Electrical, Mechan­
ical and Commercial Engineering in 
the Science School; Household Eco-, 
nomics, 'Secretarial, Social Work and 
Costume Economics in tho Margarot 
Morrison College; Architecture and 
Applied Art and Music in tho Arts 
School, and Machine Production and 
Building ponstructiou ln tho Indus­
tries College.
Tho division of tho class is shown 
•by tho following statistics:
Art School.
Drama............................................................. 6
Painting and Illustration.................. 7
Music .......................................................... li
Applied! Art ......................................... 13
Architecture ........................................... 32
Margaret Morrloon College.
Library ........................................;...........
(Contlnuod on Pago Four.)
STEFFEN WILL 
COME BACK TO 
HELP CARNEGIE
Ovation and Banquet For 
Wally Proves Students 
Faith in Their Grid Mentor
WILL PICK HIS STAFF
TEKNON CLUB ADDRESSED
BY DR. MEAR8 AT MEETING
The Tolcnon Club was addressed at 
Its meeting laßt Thursday by Dr. 
Moara, who for fifteen yeara wan a 
medical mlaalonary at Waiahln, China. 
Plana were discussed for tho corning 
Student Friondahip Drive, tho purpose 
of which la to ralao monoy for neody 
and pennllesa atudonta In Europoan 
univeraltiea. New member« of tho 
club are E. M. Gilbert, M. W. Baatlan, 
Esther Smith, Alice Blaaa, Don Milne, 
G. H. Cooley, Alice Groetzlnger, Dor­
othy Schmallhorat, Eather Johnson, 
Margaret Kaufman, R. E. Hughes, 
Louise Porter and C. V. Olaen. At the 
meetlag tomorrow evening Dr. Kerr 
will continue his talks and as guest 
the club will have President Baker.
Plan For Reorganization of 
Student Council Outlined
Prosidont Bowers of tho Studont 
Council, at Its mooting last woolc out­
lined a propoaod plan of reorganiza­
tion of tho governing bodies of Car­
nogio. Tho now body would olToct a 
combination of tho .Council and tho 
Studont Actlvltloa Board and would 
put all of tho powers, both governing 
and financial under thin body.
Aa outllnod, thoro would bo twonty- 
flvo mombera, twenty voting and ilvo 
non-voting. Tho personnel would In­
clude a president, elected an the Stu. 
dont Council president la now, tho 
four school proaldonta, tho first vice 
president of Arts, tho Senior presi­
dents of the other throe schools, a 
socrotary, a treasurer, three assist­
ant secretaries from M. M., non-voting, 
tho treasurers of tho throe men's 
school organizations to bo Juniors, 
men’s and women's Athlotlo Associa­
tion representatives, two Sophomore 
class presidents, non-voting and alter­
nating, and night school roprosonta- 
tlvos.
Most of tho work of tho new body 
would bo through committees 011 
which tho members of tho ntnv organ­
ization would servo as chairmen. Tho 
main purpose of the now organiza­
tion is to morge the work of the two 
prosent organizations to eliminate all 
possibility of a conflict of duties.
Dr. Baker was present at the moet- 
nig and expressed himself as bolng 
pleased with the way in which the 
school affairs were going. 1-Ie asked 
that two women from the student1 
body be nominated to serve on a Stu­
dent Welfare Committee which he Is 
forming.
The committee is to be made up 
of both faculty and students and will 
discuss general non-legislative ques­
tions coming up in the student body.
Plans for the general assembly next 
Wednesday were announced. Mr. Vau- 
clain, president of the Baldwin Loco­
motive Works will be the principal 
speaker. A representative of the Stu­
dent Friendship Committee from the 
New York headquarters will also give 
a short talk on the drive to be made 
on the campus.
Wally Steffen planned to come to 
Pittsburgh to discuss the final ar­
rangements with the Athletic Council 
in regards to clearing all difficulties 
in tho coaching situation. He did not 
fail his promise 011 Sunday and as a 
result of his interview with the auth­
orities of Carnegie athletics, every 
student and official of the institution 
is very well satisfied that they can 
have the judge back even as advisory 
football coach next fall for sure.
Judge Steffen was met at the Union 
Station and escorted to the Field 
House where several hundred studont 
admirers including tho kiltie band, all 
clad in their white and plaid, greeted 
the Mentor who has put Carnegie foot­
ball on tho high plane where it now 
stands. Members of the Carnegie 
Athletic Council, including President 
Overend, Dr. Marks, Colonel Day, D. 
A. Casey, and L. I-I. Lee, hold the offi­
cial meeting at dinner in the P. A. A. 
shortly after the student welcoming. 
Before these officials, Wally explained 
that tho Chicago Bar Association was 
satisllod to let him act in the capacity 
of advisory coach only. Since tho ver­
dict was final, the ofilclals formally 
accepted tho conditioned phrase and 
Immediately set lo work in tho busi­
ness of completing tho schedule and 
helping Steffen outline a policy of as­
sistant coaching.
Wnlly’s Banquet at 5. A. E. House.
Hanging over tho stops in front of 
tho Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity 
house road a lighted artistic sign, 
“Wo Want. You Wally.” Tho previous 
rocoption had been a surprise to 
Wally and then for his 1922 football 
squad, tho manager, Burt Munhnll, 
and Buddy Ovorond to carry tho ova- 
(Conclnuad on Pago Four.)
Art Teachers of City 
Guests of Art’s College
Enjoy First Night of Prof 
Steven’s “Shagreen”
Tho music and art supervisors and 
toachorn of tho Pittsburgh district 
woro gliosis last Thursday evening 
of the Collogo of Fine Arts faculty 
iind a promising program of enter­
tainment wan carried out. At. >1:30 
the Mualc Department prosonted a 
program, followed by a. chalk talk by 
Prof. Charles J. Taylor, hoad of tho 
Department of Painting and illustra­
tion.
After a supper tho guests were en­
tertained In tho theater where thoy 
Saw the opening performance of 
“Shagreen,” which la Prof. Thomas 
Wood Stovona* nowost play. This 
production, which Includes 35 drama 
students, was one ol! the biggest of 
tho yoar. Tho play Is based upon 
“The Peau do Chagrin,” one of Bal­
zac’s moro famous classics.
1 Tho following compose the cast. 
Mary Brown, Janet Millie, John A. 
Willard, Bernard Szold, O. B New­
man, Goorge Hoag, Harry Mervla, 
Boss Johnson, Harry L. Hamilton.. 
Joseph Lazarus, Philip R. Thorne, 
Ellen Lowe, Charles McCarthy, Eliza­
beth Soworsby, Itawley Law, Vernor 
S. Halden and other students as 
gamblers, gueets, footmon, etc.
BLACK IMPS TO HAVE NEW
LEADER—KOVACK SELECTED
Owing to a change in the person­
nel of the Black Imps Orchestra, a 
school organization, the management 
is now in the hands of Stephen E. 
Kovach, Jr. The orchestra which 
has been in the hands of I-Iarry1 N. 
Smith in tho past, has also added 
a seventh piece in the person of P. 
A. Putt, who will putt along on liis 
Luba assuring the dancers of perfect 
rytlim. Rehearsals are now being 
held for an extended trip to be taken 
during tho Easter vacation.
Faculty Subdued By Deans in
Spectacular Basket Ball Game
By T. S. Reppller
(Distributed by the Fhearst papers) 
Lineup of the Teams Last Friday 
Faculty Doans
Stem felt.............. F........................Tarbell
Porter................ S, G.................Boaaango
Kirkpatrick.... R. G............................Day
Whitman.............. C............................Mott
Taylor.................... F.........................Morris
Roforoo—Trumbauer. Timekeeper 
—A. N. Hoy],
Such was tho lineup of the teams 
as thoy appeared last Friday evening, 
ready for tho fray, and trained down 
to the last possible ounce. Novor be­
fore ln tho past docado has such an 
Intensely fought and terrific battle 
been staged at C. I. T., nor Is it likely 
that the same contestants will ever 
again participate.
At promptly eight twenty-two, the 
Deans ran out on the floor of the 
Langley Lab, amidst the wild applause 
of the onlooker, and a terrific outburst
from the janitor, who remained on 
the premises to see that nothing was 
broken. Dean Mott, star center and 
foul shooter, took his position before 
the basket, and while glancing in tho 
direction of tho cashier’s ofllce, allot 
four baakota ovor hla hoad, admitting 
that he was a bit out of practice. Im­
mediately following, tho Faculty burat 
out of tho dressing rooms with a dem­
onstration of much onthualaam, gath­
ering together a few soconda to glvo 
a roualng choor for thoir stalwart op­
ponents.
Roferoe Trumbauer, equipped with 
a new twelve cent whistle, took his 
place between the centers, and with 
a few brief expository sentences, ex­
plained to the contestants that biting, 
hitting below the belt, and harsh 
words would be taken to show bad 
blood between the teams, in addition 
to being most ungentlemanly. A blast 
(Continued on Page Four.)

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, MARCH 7, 1923
Published overy week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of
Technology under the supervision of tlio Student Activities Board.___________
Entered in the Poiitoillce of Pittsburgh us liccond-ebum matter.
VICTOR H. STROMQUIST ...................................................................... Editor-In-Chief
Telephone—Hiland 858.
H. D. SONNEMANN.............................................................................. Business Manager
Telephone—Schenley 92X1
EDW. A. BRAND....................................................................................... Managing Editor
Tolophono—Schenley 9143
KENNETH ARNOLD ............................................................................... Associato Editor
H. F. SIMPSON .......................................................................................... Associate Editor
II. F. DIETER..............................................................................................Associate Editor
MARK B. DOWNJBS...............................................................................................Numi Editor
Tolophono—Hazel 9398
FR13D C. SMITH......................................................................................................Nowli Editor
Telephone—inland 8118-J'
FIU3D T. PHDt/PS..................................................................................................Now» Editor
Tolophono—Schenley 9102
H. H. WILSON .......................................................................................Athletic Editor
Tolophono—Hazel 9856
R. P. HAY ............................................................................................................. Photographer
AI DS ICELLER ............................................................................................Exchange Editor
E. P. COUSE, .ill...........................................................................................................Art Editor
T. S. REPPLIER...............................-......................................................... Special Writer
COMMENTS
Mr. Victor Stromqulst,
Editor Tartan.
I ask the privilege of the use of a 
small space in your paper, through 
which I wish to offer an explanation 
nd a defense of an organization of 
Carneglo Tech School, namely, the 
band.
In a recent issue of tlio Tartan, an 
article appeared in which tlio band 
wus criticised for not making its ap­
pearances at tho basket ball games 
more often than they had been doing.
Intelligent criticism at any time is 
just and doos no one any harm; but 
when lacking this quality, is pernic­
iously unjust.
D. Frank Sullivan, Assistant Pro­
fessor of Applied Art at Carnegie 
Tech will speak March 9 at the lunch­
eon meeting of tho Direct Advertising 
M rjvory one known-tho »Indent! °,™‘P °r tho, Pittsburgh Advertising, , , ..... ' I'liiH t-Tn nMIl /li,.,. ''TlrtM'ii*« otulbody, as well as the public ut largo—
W. B. CUNNINGHAM ................................................................... Advertising Munager
Tolophono—Schenley 9211
J. C. MAJOR.............................................................*........................ Circulation Manager
Tolophono—Schenley 91()2
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
P. C. McKenzie, L. Hertzman, F. 1). Rossini, W. Winning, L. D. Richards, 
A. F. Andrews, B. DoMare, E. G. Eiglo, A. E. ICrogh, A. I. Isuacs, R. G. 
Kennedy.
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS 
E. C. Frazier, J. II. Ferguson, O. E. Jacoby, J. Christoff, Hi P. RoBsback.
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
W. B. Cunninghum, T. J. Dempsey, J. B. Luudig, D. Moskovltz, J. W. 
Motro, P. W. Roilly, H. Gibson, W. A. Jucko, P. Edle, R. L. Sandrock, B. 
Broudy, II. Urscliol.
The Edltor-in-Chiof 1D rosponsible for tho policy of this paper; tho 
Managing Editor for the make up.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed. 
Signuturo will be withheld If desired. All nows items must bo in the student 
postolllco before 4:30 Friduy.
Turtan Oiilce—Room 5-A, Industries Building.
11:30 to 1:00, Wednesday, 12:00 to 1:00.
Oiilce hours—Tuesday,
COME TO CHAPEL TOMORROW
Last week we had perhaps the largest attendance of the year 
at chapel, this was gratifying to everyone who is promoting this re­
ligious institution. Let us make chapel a more important part of 
our College life, by attending regularly; let each individual present 
last week bo there again tomorrow, and each person bring some one 
else. By doing this we will fill the Arts Theater, for the first time, 
perhaps, since chapel services were instituted here.
THE ALMA MATER TUNE
We would like to hear tho new tunc of the Alma Mater given a 
few more introductions to tlio student body and believe that if the 
mimic becomes familiar it will bo adopted. Tho present tune is no 
doubt beautiful; but it has no distinction, for it is used by many other 
colleges. If somo of tho fraternities and othor organizations get 
copies of tho now music and practice it until enough students get 
well, enough acquainted with the tune so that we can sing at our 
assemblies, then by a fair trial wo can determine whether we want 
to change from tho old Austrian hymn.
FOUR SCHOOL ATHLETIC CONFERENCE
Next fall, tho onc-yoar rcsidoncc rule and Freshman rule will 
go into oflleet at Carnegie Tech, and at Washington and JeiTcrson. 
Tho following fall, it will go into effect at tho University of West 
Virginia. This means that in two years, the four major colleges of 
the Tri-State district will havo practically tho sumo eligibility rules 
in athletics,
Difl'ereuce in tho rules has boon a soro spot in athletic rolations 
nround horo for yours, and was tho fundamental cause of tho broach 
botwoon Pitt and Curnogio which wus recently honied. Tho logicul 
result ol! this standardization of rulos is tho formation ol! a coni’cr- 
onco botwoon tho four schools mentioned.
This district is in rather strungo situntion. On tho west, wo bor­
der on tlio Western conl’orenco, und in tho Ohio Stuto con!’eronoo: 
and on tho Bust, we nro sopuratod from tho major colleges by tho 
mountains. The oollogos in this district number eight of tho so 
eullod minor schools, und tho four major schools of Curnogio, Pill;, 
W. & 'I. and West Virginia. A I'our-sohool oonl’oronoo is a logicul 
step, and by working in eo-oporntion with tho nowly formed longue 
of minor schools, could accomplished big things in Tri-Stato uthloti
This longuo would not interfere to any extent with tho relations 
with outside schools. These four moot in most brunches ol! sports 
now, and are natural rivals. Tho smullor colleges would still bo cur 
nod on tho schedules; there would bo loss confusion in tho making 
of tho schedules, and deciding officials for big gumos. Thoro nro un­
told ndvantages to tho plan. In addition, it might bo the first step in 
tho formation of a conference to include tho larger colleges of l?onn 
sylvunia. Imagine a conference composed of Penn, Penn State, 
Lafayette, Buclcnell, West Virginia, Pitt, W. & J. and Carnegie. 
Thoro is no better combination in this country in the calibre of sports. 
So much for tho idea. How will it come about V
There is only ono way. One of tho colleges must call the others 
together and propose it. Let that college be Carnegie Tech 1 There 
is no tradition of tho school against it. There are no barriers of 
petty jealousy against any of the othors. Wo are the youngest school 
of tho four, and we must show that we are ready to shoulder our 
responsibility in the uplifting of athletics in this district. Let us get 
behind the idea as a school, and do our part to promote, in the near 
future, this coalation of schools, which will mean so much to us all,
Student Calendar
"WEDNESDAY, MAKCH 7
Drama—'“Shagreen”....................................................S:15, Arts Theater
Smoker—E. O. T. C. Engineers, 7:30, Commercial Chib Room, Science 
THURSDAY, MARCH 8
Drama—'“Shagreen”................................................. 8:15, Arts Theater
Tea Danee—Industries Junior.
FKIDAY, MAKCH 9
Dance—“Soph Hop”.......................................................9 ;00, Arts Foyer
SATURDAY, MARCH 10
Girls’ Basket Ball'—Carncgio vs. Westminster.........8:15, Field House
Drama—“Shagreen” (Student, Night)........................8:15, Arts Theat
SUNDAY, MARCH 11
Roeital—Department oL’ Music..................................8:15, Arts Theater
SATURDAY, MARCH 17 
Smoker—Scionco Stag ..................................................................... Union
A. S. C. E. Hear V. Covcll 
Allegheny Engineer
Mr. V. R. Covoll, County Enginoor 
of Allegheny County, talked on “Main­
tenance of Highway Bridges” before 
tho Curnogio Student Chapter, A. S. 
C. E. at its seminar mooting last woolc. 
Mr. Covoll, member A. S. C. E., has 
been connected with tho County En­
gineer’s oiilce for tho past twenty- 
five years. His work lias been large­
ly confined to the design and mainte­
nance of Allegheny County bridges, 
particularly the latter. Three of the 
present river bridges are of his de­
sign.
The main problem in the mainte­
nance of the bridges of the county is 
that of caring for the greatly increas­
ed loads due to motorized traffic, 
which was unknown at the time the 
bridges were designed. The increased
*
CONSOLIDATION OF TWO * 
FRATERNITIES ANNOUNCED *
The two organizations, Delta • 
1 Epsilon Omega Local, and Xi •
¦ Sigma Upsilon Lor-al, have •
¦ merged and hereafter will be •
• known as the Delta Xi Fratem- •
• Ity.
Architect Drawings 
To Be Displayed Here
Exhibit of 135 Designs For 
Chicago Tribune Tower
MR. SULLIVAN TO SPEAK 
BEFORE PGH. ADV. CLUB
loads sot up groator strossos and 
pause moro wear.
Tho mnlntononco divides itsolf into 
throo divisions, thoso of masonry, 
iloors and pointing. It has boon tho 
experience of Mr. Covoll in tho past 
that stono makos a bottor pier than 
doos concroto bocauso of tho occa­
sional failure of conoroto duo to im­
proper mixing. Scour is ono of tho 
main tilings to combat in tho plors. 
This is reduced to a minimum by pil­
ing loose concroto blocks nbout tho 
base. As the dirt is carried away the 
blocks drop down and scour is elimi­
nated.
Wood is largely used in tho makeup 
and repair of floors. It is all creo- 
soted by the fill cell method. This 
method reduces the buckling caused 
by water. Different specifications are 
used for the paint used in different 
parts of the bridges. Cleaning is also 
necessary before any paint can. be 
supplied.
Tech EMTD ulways been proud of her 
band, for it EMTD ever been composed 
of members whose eurnest endeavor 
bus been to givo to their school tho 
best of their efforts in their service 
in the bund.
Its grout success bus been due en­
tirely to this wonderful spirit of earn­
est devotion to a cause and a work 
that brings with it no emoluments, of 
any kind, save a smull insignia, which 
requires four years’ service to gain.
‘My hoart is in the work” has ever 
been their motto, though I regret to 
say that some members havo fallen 
by tho waysldo very much as regards 
that phrase. But each and every 
member has ulways willingly respond­
ed to tho cull for his services, when­
ever possible for him to do so.
Muny sncriilces liuve been mude by 
them thut the student body knows 
nothing about, und perhups cures less, 
und if nil who are so voluble in their 
criticism would glvo to Tech in spirit 
und in deed us much und us willingly 
us the members of the bund liuve, 
there would be no need of uny spnee 
in your puper, given over to the 
comments und criticisms on Tech 
spirit und tho things tliut multe for 
the glory of Cnrneglo Tech.
I wonder why It is thut somo indi­
viduals impose upon themselves the 
¦ight to dictuto to an orgunlzution of 
which they ure not u pnrt, us to its 
dutios und the proper performunce of 
tho sumo. How cun u bund that is' 
situated us this one is, being scat- 
tored to ull purts of the school, und no 
wuy of communlcuting with eucli 
member upon u moment’s notice, go­
ing to be brought together upon one 
hour's notice to uppour, when eucli 
und every member is deeply im­
mersed in his studies und other work, 
und no one bus uny time to go to eucli 
and ovory pluce and get them out; not 
evon signs on tho bulletin bourds cun 
uccompllsli this?
Aguln, why <Io some individuals 
tulco it upon themselves to huve an­
nounced In tho daily papers of tho 
city that tho band in their kilts has 
en ordered, out, when no such order 
or request has over boon given?
Those things havo boon occurring 
right along all during this wintor pe­
riod. In ono instance tho band, upon 
ono of thoso last minute orders did re­
spond to tho call for Its service, dross- 
od In lcllts, and they had to stand all 
during tho gamo, backed and crowdod 
Into a small narrow corner against 
tho wall, unsoon, but hoard; and they 
did tholr bit tho host under tho con­
ditions, while some wonderful spirited 
pooplo occupied tho seats that had 
boon rosorvod for tho band, and whon 
askod to glvo thorn up, sat os deaf to 
oil entreaties OS Pharaoh Tut In his 
H000 your old tomb, with tho thought 
lourslng through tholr mind (and this 
Is foot) to boll with tho bond; and 
this Is but another demonstration. or 
tho some spirit as shown to tho 1110111- 
bprs of tho band upon tholr return 
from tho football gamo last fall at 
Little Washington.
T do not hlorap tho mombors of tho 
band for fooling disgusted with such 
yellow snobbish treatment, nolthor do 
I think that tho student body os a 
whole moan that such a condition 
should oxlst, or bo condoned by any 
0110.
It Is high time that the student 
body and every ono concerned should 
awake to the fuct that they should 
show to tho bund Bome reul npprecia- 
tion.
Putting kilties on them does not 
measure up to the value of each mem­
ber and the service they render, and 
are ever willing to give at any and all 
times. The gift of the kilties by the 
student body and the alumni to the 
bund should not be construed us 
personul gift to them for their serv­
ices during the pust year, but as an 
emblem of the school of which they 
are a part, and that those who in the 
future, who are chosen to wear them, 
may do so with all the honor and suc­
cess that the members of the present 
band have so well attained for the 
gloty of Carnegie Tech.
If ¡your band has not come out as 
often as some have desired, it is not 
because they have no desire to do so, 
but because of too many meddlers in 
the affairs that concern the duties of 
the band, and not enough specific no- 
tioe as regards the time when they 
nro wanted .and when they do turn 
out the lack of proper consideration 
and thought for them.
I would ask that if you wish to 
learn of tho true worth of this, your 
bond, come up to tho Union on some 
Thursday ovonlng and attend a ro- 
hoarsol and for what do they ro- 
hoorso?—that they may bo ovor bottor 
lit,tod to sorvo you all for any occa­
sion, ho It for a concert or just a rally 
whon you want pop supplied to you in 
such a largo doso that you aro bound 
to absorb it.
So I say to all who road, approciato 
your band, its mombors for wliot they 
moon to you and tho school; for all 
tho sorvico rondorod, goes to tho good 
of you all.
In closing let mo soy, that my great­
est recompense of all my musical ca­
reer, has been and will over be, my 
ten years spent as director of your 
band. May its members ever "light
Club. He will discuss “Dollars and 
Cents Art in Advertising.’' The meet­
ing will be held at 12:15 in the Hotel 
Chatham, and anyone interested is in­
vited to attend.
MOVIES AT CHEM CLUB
Seven reels of motion pictures were 
shown at the Chemist’s Club meeting 
last Thursday evening in 218 Science 
and included in their number a very 
good two-reel comedy, the others il­
lustrated various industrial processes.
The meeting was opened by the ini­
tiation of two new members. Messrs. 
Rossini and Winning, who, if they re­
ceived no material injury, received 
something to occupy their attention 
for a period.
Pictures followed describing the 
manufacture of Wall rope and Kelly 
Springfield tires, and the trials of 
youthful journalism were amusingly 
portrayed in the really funny comedy, 
The Big Scoop.” Ample refresh­
ments followed.
The Chemist’s Club is indebted for 
the success of the meeting, to Mr. 
Miller of the Chemistry Department 
for operating the projector and to the 
capable work of Messrs. Grey and 
James in making the arrangements.
M. M. Sophs Razz Plebes
The Plebes and Sophs of Maggy 
Murph recommenced their traditional 
rivalry this week following a special 
meeting of the Plebes called last Fri­
day by the president of the Junior 
class.
The meeting was called because of 
growing disregard that was being 
taken of the Piebe regulations. Jane 
Markel, president of tho Juniors, 
spoke first, and explained the purpose 
of the meeting. Dot Smith, president 
of tho Sophomores, then told the 
Plebes what was to be expected of 
them In tho future.
Starting Monday morning, four 
Plobe girls are to bo in tho M. M. 
cafeteria during tlio noon hour serv­
ing water to the upper classmen. New 
shifts will be broken in every day 
until all of the Plebes have become 
dexterous in bonding out tho water.
Tho Sophs, In addition, called a pa­
rade of all Plebo girls for Tuesduy to 
start ut 12:30 from in front of the M. 
M. building.
The Sophs liuve promised thut the 
rogulntlons will bo strictly enforced 
from now 011 until qualification duy, 
and undoubtedly if nil of their plnns 
are curried out tlio Plebes ure in for 
o strenuous time.
CAMPUS WEEK PROGRAM
OUT VERY SHORTLY
The original drawings of skyscrap­
ers submitted in the recent $100,000 
architectural competition conducted 
by the Chicago Tribune will be on dis­
play In the Exhibition Room of the 
Arts College, beginning next Monday, 
March 12th, for three days. The 
drawings, numbering 135, were sub­
mitted by tho cream of the architec­
tural talent of 22 nations. The first 
prize of $50,000 was awarded to John 
Henda Howells, of New York, son of 
the noted author, William Dean How­
ells. Second prize, $20,000 went to 
Eliel Saarienea, of Finland, and Hols- 
bird and Roche, of Chicago, won the 
third prize of $10,000.
All of the drawings, are perspective 
designs of a tower administration 
building, to be erected on North Mich­
igan Boulevard, Chicago, at a cost of 
$7,000,000. The best talent of the 
professional architects entered into 
the competition, which brought out 
more drawings than any previous con­
test in years. The cost of the draw­
ings to each architect, is estimated 
at from $1,000 to $10,000 each.
The exhibition left Chicago in Jan­
uary for a tour of the United States 
and Canada, and will return in May. 
Requests for the privilege of showing 
these works were received from all 
parts of the country from art socie­
ties and art institutes, from universi­
ties and architectural schools, from 
all the chapters of the American In­
stitute of Architecture, from commer­
cial clubs, banks, department stores, 
and even private individuals. Many 
of thorn offered to defray the entire 
expenses of showing the exhibit in 
their cities, but the entire expense of 
transportation and arrangement is be­
ing borne by the Tribune. It is a 
singular honor that Carnegie Tech 
was selected as the most appropriate 
location for the exhibition in Pitts­
burgh. The itinerary for March will 
include University of Michigan, To­
ledo, Detroit, Cleveland, Columbus, 
Carnegie Tech, Washington, D. C., 
University of Pennsylvania, Penn 
State College, Princeton, and New 
York City.
E. R. Bossange, Director of the Col­
lege of Fine Arts, announces that the 
drawings will be displayed free to the 
public in the Exhibition Hall of the 
Fine Arts College.
ROAMIN’S
Many will perhaps recall the com­
ment on a Maggie Murph or Fine 
Arts co-ed made in last week’s 
Roamins.’ The writer of the letter 
discussed last week has contributed 
again to the column and informs 
Roamer that the writer of both let­
ters was a MALE student of the 
school and not a co-ed.
Which means that an apology is 
due the Maggie Murphs and the Fine 
Arts co-eds.
Last week the writer of the letter 
disguised the letter and signature as 
that of a co-ed; this week in his 
answer he 83ys: “Tell the students 
that it was not a girl who wrote it 
but a man.” In the letter the word 
“man” was underscored five times.
Readers of this column do YOTJ 
think that if he -really were a man 
in the true sense of the word, or per­
haps better a gentleman,” emphasis 
of that fact would be necessary.
Perhaps he was disappointed 
love at one time or another.
in
Judging from the second letter the 
Maggie Murphs and Fine Arts 
eds are better able to attend to their 
affairs than this “male species.”
How about it, girls?
Girls, here is a fellow who wants 
to be your secretary and publicity 
man. Do you want him. We’ll try 
to find out his correct name.
(Continued From POgo One.) 
mon; R. E. Hughes, Ketchol, Miller, 
J. IT. Forguson, J. J. Galvin.
Athletics—B. Ni Greenlaw, chair­
man; Enos Johnson, Helen Macrum, 
P. J. Bowron.
Girls—Lillian Coloman, chairman; 
Ilolon Johnson, Arts Sub-clnilrman; 
Mildred Lucas, Holon Macrum, Anne 
Stewart, Blair .Tossop, Janet Pony.
Midwest Club Meeting in 
“Y” Club Room Sunday 4:30
The Midwest Association is going 
to hold a meeting next Sunday after­
noon at -1:30 p. m. in the Y clubroom, 
in the Industries «Building.
Many matters are going to be dis­
cussed and we are going to try to in­
fuse new pep Into the old M. W. A. 
Somo of the fellows think that a lit­
tle trip or two up the river on Satur­
days and during Easter vacation will 
appeal to the group. Only a few of 
us can go homo during Easter so let 
us get together and have a good time 
to relieve the monotony. We can also 
arrange to inspect somo of the many 
and varied industrial plants about the 
city. Somo of us think that steel 
mills are the only kind of plants there 
are here. Here’s your chance to 
leorn differently.
Tho question of recognition pins 
will also bo f alcon up and settled. The 
committee will give us tho fucts nbout 
tho whole matter and it will bo up 
to us to Bottle It.
Tlio possibility of arrunging u lit­
tle pugeunt for campus week to let 
pooplo know where wo como from is 
to be discussed.
If you are ashamed of old Iowa, In-Treasurer—Don Mawhlnnoy und 
Dorothy Smith, assistant treasurer diana, Colorado, Arkansus, Idulio, or 
for Murga ret Morrison,
Alumni—H. B. Pierce, chainnun; 
Mary Williams, W. J. Reilly, Leffman 
WLNR Josephine Whitney.
Show—Jack Willard, chairman, is 
not ready to announce his selection, 
nor is Turcotte, of the music commit­
tee.
MECHANICALS GET NEW
REFRIGERATING PLANT
(Continued from Page One) 
of ammonia in circulation by the use 
of calibrated tanks. The amount of 
brine and the rate of circulation can 
also be determined.
By-passes and valves have been so
wherever you hall from, stay away; 
but if you are proud of the Old Home 
State, then come on
For the benefit of those who have 
forgotten—all contributions sent 
to The Tartan for publication must 
be -signed hyi the REAL name of the 
writer. ’ Publication of the name will 
be ¦withheld if desired.
ROAMER.
ARTS COLLEGE PLEBES ARE
NOW TRIED BY JURY
(Continued From Page One) 
melting point, his cause is taken up 
and pled by the defense, who sees that 
justice is strictly conformed to. When 
the defense has exhausted his ora­
torical powers, the prisoner is cross- 
examined with a snap and cleverness 
that soon reveals his guilt or inno­
cence. He is then dismissed ror sev­
eral minutes while the Jury ponders 
on the weighty question and renders 
the verdict. If innocent he is freed, 
but if found guilty he is given a sen-
Mr. Armstrong and Movies 
At Engineering Assembly
“I was born to have pleasure and 
I have had It,” said Mr. L. O. Arm­
strong the speaker at the Science As­
sembly last Wednesday. Mr. Arm­
strong Is a graduate of Oxford Uni­
versity and at the present time is on 
the staff of the Bureau of Economics 
at Washington, D. C. On being grad­
uated from college he was a physical 
wreck, so in order to become healthy 
and strong he started living an out­
door life. It was upon the subject 
of his outdoor life that he spoke, in 
connection with some movies in which 
he participated in the northern re­
gions of Canada.
He is a hardy, rugged man and al­
though he Is seventy-two years old 
and he explains this by the fact that 
he has lived an outdoor life for many 
years. On seeing him in the movie3 
carrying a heavy pack across a port­
age, no one would think of doubting 
his word in respect to his physical 
ability. He declared he was stronger 
and healthier now than he was on 
graduating from college.
Three movies of his travels in Can­
ada were shown and the well known 
author Rex Beach was the leading 
man in one of them. On these trips 
Into these northern regions he not 
only obtained movies of the country, 
but also made a survey of the natural 
resources, water power, etc., for the 
Canadian Government.
Mr. Armstrong’s talk was very in­
teresting in the view of the engineer 
who will soon graduate and will pos­
sibly enter some of the mountainous' 
regions of this country and Canada. 
And it made a great appeal to the en­
gineer to enter this kind of territory 
and develop a physique similar to 
that of Mr. Armstrong.
This speaker was secured through 
the efforts of Mr. L. F. Mowrey of 
the Canadian Pacific Railway Com­
pany.
arranged that It is possible to get a 
large number of combinations in the 
operation.
The design and details of the plant 
were worked out by the Department 
of Mechanical Engineering and the 
engineers of the York Manufacturing 
Company who furnished the equip­
ment. The installation was made by 
the Greenwood Construction Com­
pany, the Pittsburgh representa­
tives of the York Company. The in­
sulation material was furnished by 
the Armstrong Cork Company.
• CHOOSE YOUR CANDIDATE TODAY
All students in tlie College of Engineering. cut out tliis ballot 
and vote today. Handsome prizes •will be awarded on tlie nigbt of 
the Science Stag Smoker to the men having the greatest number of 
votes on the following characteristics:
Name.
Most Conceited Man.................................................................................
Best Looking Man in Science..........................;............................................
Best All Round “Tech” Man.......................................................................
Biggest “Hot Air” Artist.............................................................................
Brightest Man (Thinks he is).......................................................................
Most Contented Man .....................................................................................
Best Bluffer.....................................................................................................
Most Popular Man.........................................................................................
Best Rudolph Valentino in Scionco.............................................................
Most Accommodating Man......................................................................:....
Laziest Man in Science.................................................................................
Rules for Election:
1. But one ballot can be cast by each person.
2. Ballots must all go through the ballot box (no outside voting).
3. Concentrate your utmost to try and place the right man in 
office.
4. In making your selections try and choose a man who does not
for the glory of Carnegie Tech as sin- smoke, chew or swear. In this way there shall be no mistaken votes, 
cerely, earnestly devoted as ( 5 Listen not to “Handshakers” or “Campus Politicians.”
6. Vote in a way that will benefit the school in general. Do not 
be selfish in casting your votes.
Cox says a bath is like a college I . Cut this ballot out and after voting place in ballot box i 
education—once you get it, no ono Science Building.
can take it away from‘you.—McGill.1 (Signed) SCIENCE SMOKER COMMITTEE.
Yours truly,
E. F. SULLIVAN (Sully).
Ed. V. Price & Co. © 1923
ONE THING
That cannot be measured by the 
cost Is the 
EXCELLENCE OF CLOTHES 
INDIVIDUALLY TAILORED
DAVIES & HUGHES
EXCLUSIVE 
OAKLAND DEALERS 
3615 FORBES STREET 
Next To Strand Theater.
tence by a judge whose Infallibility Is 
unquestioned.
The sentence, if of a short and 
amusing character, is executed the 
following day in the drafting room, 
viewed by an interested audience com­
posed of those who were once Plebes 
themselves.
Start the I 
Week Right |
**•Church 011 Sunday £ 
puts new pep into Mon- £ 
clay, Tuesday, Wednes- 
day—till Sunday comes | 
again. Try it and see. ;5;%Oakland Methodist | 
Church
FORBES AND 
BOQUET
“Fifty steps from tlie 
campus”
LINES FROM
Famous Unitarians
“Men may stay but none can 
stop the coming of freedom in 
religion, for faith is the gift of 
God.”—Francis David.
FIRST UNITARIAN CHURCH
Morewood and Ellsworth 
Avenues
L. WALTER MASON, Pastor
Bellefield Presbyterian 
Church
Fifth and Bellefield Avenues. 
REV. ROBERT MacGOWAN, 
D. D., Pastor.
Sabbath School ......... 9:45 A.M.
College . Men’s Bible
Class .............................10:00 A.M.
Preaching service ... 7:00P.M. 
Christian Endeavor
Societies ..................... 7:00 P.M.
Preaching Service ... 8:00P.M. 
WELCOME! TECH STUDENTS
He Reached the Top
111
müHmma
Im
u
^HE Vice-President of a great life insurance 
company who began his career as an agent 
has this to say to seniors who are about to 
graduate from college:
“If you love work and desire to pursue an honorable, 
useful and lucrative mission in life this is the business 
for you to take up. Life insurance salesmanship offers 
a fine field for the energies of the splendid young men 
in our colleges.
“That this is true is demonstrated by those college men 
who have taken up life insurance for they have shown 
that the college man is fit for this kind of a job and 
that the job also is fit for the college man.
“The work of the life insurance salesman is distinguished 
by independence and opportunity for directing his own.
It gives all possible opportunity for individual initiative 
and a chance to make an ample income at an age when 
most fellows are struggling on a wage pittance.”
That is the story of one who began at the bottom and 
reached the top without the help of a college educa­
tion. The advantages are with you who graduate 
from college. Befor^ deciding your career make in­
quiries of the “Agency Department.”
L__) -
PAGET WOHCRNOIT DSY,NOM7
LB KLFULHO C-FF-YPTFVUUF 
Largest Fiduciary Institution in New England
mm
E

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 7, 1923THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
PLAID ATHLETICS
PUNCH LACKING IN I Spring Tennis at Carnegie 
INTER-FRAT GAMES Be&ins With lndoor WorkOn the Plaid Screen
League Leaders Lose Places 
in National and Federal 
League Games
The lute r-Fraternity-Dormitory 
Basket Ball Leagues are at a point 
at present where each game played 
means a "make” or a “break." From 
the beginning oE the season several 
of the teams of the various leagues 
have been showing good form and 
displaying excellent ability, but as 
the time for the close of the season 
is nearing they seem to lack the 
necessary “punch” to complete a suc­
cessful season.
The attendance at the games this 
year has been very good which 
shows that the spirit in these games 
is increasing. The support of the 
student body at these games is sure 
to result in better contests each year 
among the fraternities as well as bet­
ter co-operation. As these contests 
represent most of the students from 
the three schools they should re­
ceive the support of the student 
body.
The time for the post season 
games will soon be here with sev­
eral teams tied for first place in the 
National and Federal Leagues. Three 
teams of the National League are 
tied for first honors. Iota Sigma 
Delta has been leading this league 
the whole season, hut they suffered 
a defeat at the hands of Beta Theta 
Pi which, tied three teams of the 
league.
If the teams continue this tie it 
is possible that the finals may be 
played during Campus Week. Since 
this is impossible one of the teams 
in the tie must show a brilliant flash 
of basket ball and win the honors. It 
is certain that the winner this year 
will have to overcome harder oppo­
nents than ill previous years which 
will mean a more interesting scries 
of finals.
;&';I.m
Hear the hits of the minute 
on Brunswick Records, the 
world’s truest reproductions. 
2302—Swanco Smile«
tVlioro tho Bamboo Bnblca 
Grow
2350—Roho of tlio Rio Grando 
All Muddled Up 
2353—I-iidy of tlio Evening1'ack Up Your Sins und Go 
To tlio Devil
And a world of others.
Now on sale at all Brunswick dealers
RADIO 
Parkin Fixed Condensers. .$ .50
Crystal Detectors ................. 1-00
Moulded Knobs .........-i .05
Switch Stops..................................02
Batteries recharged and 
repaired.
ACORN STORAGE BATTERY 
COMPANY 
4521 Forbes St., Near Craig.
While sporting editors worry about 
William Tilden’s finger and whether 
he will again be able to compete with 
other notable tennis players for the 
court championship, Chuck Garland, 
member of the 1920 Davis Cup team 
with Tilden, has been making plans 
for Carnegie Tech’s indoor racquet 
practice which will begin some day 
this week or the beginning of next.
Coach Garland will soon make a 
call for candidates and he will surely 
be pleased with the material at hand, 
for last fall the tournament brought 
out not less than eight men who with 
Captain Schwartz and Iveil will make 
up a strong nuclii as a basis for an­
ticipating greater enthusiasm in early 
practice.
When considering that Carnegie 
Tech tennis has held by far the best 
record of all spring sports indulged 
by its students, it should not be a 
surprise to those who have followed 
up these records to learn that the 
promoters of the sport are no longer 
satisfied with three consecutive tri­
state championships.
Scheduling such teams as Yale, Le­
high, and Michigan is by no means 
thought of as stepping out too far. 
The 1920 team was victor over twelve 
college and university teams, includ­
ing Penn State and Syracuse, and los­
ing only to Michigan by the least pos­
sible score, while the 1921 and 1922 
teams piled up similar records which 
proved that the sport was worthy of 
extending its challenges to new fields 
of conquest farther east and west.
The first match on the schedule will 
be played with West Virginia at Mor­
gantown on April 21, to be followed 
with a match with W. & J. The west­
ern trip will start at the end of the 
first week in May and at present two 
dates have been definitely stated—one 
with University of Michigan on May 
10, and a second with Oberlin Col­
lege the day following.
During the latter part of May the 
team will invade eastern territory, 
tackling the old Eli racqueteers at 
New Haven, Conn., on May 31. On 
their return' from Yale several 
matches will be played with equally 
strong teams—one being Lehigh on 
June 2.
Manager Kreisle hopes to give out 
the complete schedule for the next 
issue of the Tartan. 1-Ie will also 
make a call for material with which 
Coach Garland may mould into a suit­
able indoor working squad until the 
weather permits the use of the courts.
By H. H. WILSON
WELCOME, WALLY
We were surely glad to see the smiling countenance of our old friend, 
Wally Steffen, last Sunday. He was evidently very much impressed by the 
demonstration given him aud endeavored to explain as best he could the 
position he is in in regard to coaching football next fall.
His heart is with Carnegie Tech and we dislike to see a man of such 
personality and ability slowly withdrawing from our coaching ranks. The 
feelings of the students are truly expressed in the cry, Wo want Wally!
STEFFEN SPEAKS TO 
STUDENTS AT RALLY
Judge Steffen to Act Only as 
Advisory Head For 1923 
Football
Leaders of Leagues Tie
Kappa Sigma Rlio, Kappa Sigma 
and Pi Kappa Alpha nearly trippled 
score on their opponents last week. 
One game was forfeited and another 
postponed. It is requested that post­
poned games be played off soon.
National League.
TENNIS
With signs of spring which have come forth in the way of mild, open 
weather and the accompanying odors and sights indicative of the budding 
season, we find the racquet wielders looking forward to a banner season. 
Looking over the present plans, we find that the outlook in the way of ma­
terial is the best in a number of years and there are rumors of a heavy 
schedule in the process of completion.
The team is to line up against teams in the East and Middle West be­
sides tackling the best in the Tri-State section. Chuck Garland, our new 
coach, is going to have his hands full to successfully cope with the Plaid 
court campaign, as outlined. He has a couple of veterans to rely upon and 
a galaxy of new stars to round into shape in the next few weeks. These 
new stars are winners of past Carnegie tournaments or have made names 
for themselves before entering the Plaid institution. We expect some splen­
did performances from them during the coming spring months.
ON THE CINDER PATH
Coach Beeler with the advent of favorable weather is slowly rounding 
his squad into condition for the coming events which we would venture to 
say are rather of a tough nature.
One thing which seems to be a handicap so far is tlie fact that the 
Plebes have been showing very little interest in coming out for the Assist­
ant Managerships. Track is a sport in which the tasks of the assistant 
managers are of a much less tedious nature than in certain other sports, 
This advantage should speak strongly for these jobs.
We wonder why our co-ed friends won’t permit the boys to act as spec­
tators at their inter-dormitory basket ball games. They may have a legiti­
mate reason. We can’t see it.
Someone tipped us off that Wang Mefort is an all-round track man, doing 
everything from ,the sprints and throwing the discus and javelin to doing the 
hurdles and the broad jump. But come to think of it, he isn’t eligible. Too 
bad!
Keep an eye on the Inter-fraternity Basket Ball Leagues. There are 
going to be some hot games in the next few weeks with these leaguo ties 
to be played off and the final series coming on.
Plebes Take in Braddock 
High With 31-26 Victory
Iota Sigma Delta 10, Beta Theta 
12.
Kappa Sigma Rlio 24, Scobell Hall 9.
Delta Phi Delta forfeited to Delta 
Epsilon Omega.
American League.
Tau Gamma Phi 14, Sigma Nu 15.
Pi Kappa Alpha 27, Delta Mu 10.
Delta Upsilon and Woodlawn Club 
postponed.
Federal League.
Beta Sigma Rho 10, Xi Sigma Up­
silon 19.
Kappa Sigma 22, Welch Hall 11.
Postponed Game.
Kappa Sigma 26, Theta Xi 10.
LOST—Friday night,, string of 
pearls. Finder please leave in Dean 
of Women’s office.
Lava,” wrote the Freshman, 
is what you use to shave with
iND perhaps the Freshman was not so far 
f\ wrong at that. He may have been think­
ing of lather that rolled down his cheeks, 
dried on his face, and erupted his feelings in the 
process.
Today, there is something better—Williams’ 
differs from any shaving lather you ever used. 
For Williams’ Shaving Cream contains a certain 
ingredient that is distinctly beneficial to the skin. 
And Williams’is easier to 
shave with. It softens 
whisker resistance with a 
speed that takes all the 
tedium out of the shaving 
process. Get a tube of 
Williams’ today and be­
gin enjoying its helpful 
care.
Williams’Shaving Cream
W7
Notice the hinged cap. You can't lose it—and the tube hangs up t
The Plebe basket ball team again 
came through with a victory on last 
Tuesday night when they defeated 
the Braddock High School team by 
the score of 31 to 26. The Plebes 
had to go their limit to defeat this 
team because it is one of the best 
in the Pittsburgh district. This vic­
tory is probably the sweetest of all 
of tlie numerous ones which they 
have achieved because of the very 
high stanGlng of tlie team which 
bliey defeated.
Amans was in wonderful form 
again. He rang up* a total of seven 
field goals during the course of the 
game. Little old Toots sure Is there 
when it comes to dropping them in 
from aniyi ariglei of the floor. Good­
win also played a fine game, making 
four field goals. The boys know how 
to play together. That is the secret
of their success. The Lineup: 
Carnegie—31. Braddock—26.
Amans .....................F.................. Barrett
Reiter ......................F............. Wrobleslc
Goodwin ................C................. L. Peed
Beede ......................G................. W. Reed
Jackson ...................G....................... House
Substitutions — Edie for Reiter,
Sherwin for Barrett.
Goals—Amans 7, Goodwin 4, Beede 
2, Wrobleslc 3, L. Reed 1, W. Reed 2.
Foul goals—Jackson, 3 out of 13; 
W. Reed, 14 out of 21.
Geneva Quintet Again
Scores on Carnegie
In a thrilling contest that, more 
than a mere battle between colleges, 
was also a battle between coaches, 
the Geneva College quintet defeated 
the Skibo warriors by tho decisive 
score of 53-41. It was a battle be­
tween coaches, because Lubic of Car­
negie and McCarter of Geneva are 
former Pitt basket ball stars.
At the start of the game, it ap­
peared that Geneva was up against 
an uphill fight to win. Tho Plaid 
gained a five point lead at tho outsot, 
but did not hold it long. The Boaver 
Falls lads gradually climbed up on 
the visitors and by the end of the 
first half had overcome the handicap 
and gained a slight lead of their own. 
The tally at half tlmo was 25-20 In 
favor of Geneva.
The second period started out with 
both teams determined to register a 
victory. Genova was out to score her 
second victory of the season over tho 
Tartans and the lattor wore just as 
determined to prevent a repetition of 
the previous doCeat on the home 
court. The Plaid players fought hard 
enough to reduce tho Genova load to 
a margin of only one point at ono
LUTHERANS GET HOUSE
(Continued from Page One) 
by the need of a regular meeting 
place. The desire for a student house 
grew, and last spring' the Lutheran 
churches of the city took cognizance 
of the heed and began to take action. 
As a result of the co-operation of one 
hundred and four of the churches of 
the city, the Lutheran Student House 
is today the first of its kind in Pitts­
burgh. The house was opened early 
in January and is now occupied by 
students from Pitt as well as from 
Carnegie.
The Lutheran Student Club 'will 
hold meetings each month in the Stu­
dent House, and several parties will 
intersperse these meetings. Students 
from the educational institutions of 
higher learning at Pittsburgh are elig­
ible for membership. No drive for 
members will be made. The purpose 
of the club. is to promote fellowship 
and deepen Christian conviction 
among students.
Popular styles of recognition and 
seal pins can be purchased at Sing­
er’s, Jenkins Arcade.
About six hundred students gath­
ered in front of the field houso last 
Sunday noon to meet Coach Steffen, 
who stopped in the city over tho 
week-end. The kiltie band was out 
en masse and gave tho occasion such 
a spirit as is seldom seeu at Carnegie 
except in the football season.
Andy Olsen, the new head cheer­
leader, was on hand with an assist­
ant and led in some real peppy cheers 
and sougs.
When Steffen appeared there was 
a deafening noise. Everyone was cry­
ing: “We want “Wally,” “Wally.”
When the noise had subsided Steffen 
gave an impromptu speech which fol­
lows :
“I am very much pleased to come 
back and be among my friends in 
Pittsburgh. I know that all the boot­
leggers about the campus were here 
to greet mo.
I hardly know what to say except 
that I am reluctant to quit coaching 
football and it has been very difficult 
for me to make up my mind. How­
ever, there is a serious objection at 
home. I am elected to a position 
where I must give practicnlly all my 
time. There were a number of • cir­
cumstances which looked as if I might 
be able to arrange it, but the Bar As­
sociation of Chicago, of which all the 
lawyers are members, recently sent 
in a complaint about judges not giv­
ing enough time to work and gave a 
list of judges and the number of times 
they were away from duties. This 
came out of. a cloar sky just when 
I was trying to arrango to get away 
for next fall. I can’t afford to ,be dis­
credited by the peoplo of Chicago, as 
I would bo should I leave and they 
object.
I am ontitled to ten weeks vacation 
each year. However, it is contem­
plated that this vacation bo taken dur­
ing tlie summer months and it looks 
as if I cannot got away. I havo done 
my best to arrange it, but I boliove I 
should receive criticism that I could 
never livo down. However, I havo 
consented to come horo during Sep­
tember and come on ovory weolc-ond 
until someone can bo solected to take 
up tho work hero permanently. I 
would like to come back and it is hard 
to glvo the Idea up, but thoro Is a 
very sorlous quostlon whether I 
should do It. Whon I took up tho 
matter with tho Chief Justice of tho 
county he said: “Do you think tlio 
pooplo wou|d havo olectod you If you 
had told thom you would bo gono in 
tho fall of ovory year?” My answer 
of course had to bo "No.” I must do 
tho fair tiling. My judgment 1» that 
the fair thing Is to remain In tho por- 
fonnanco of tho duties of my ofilco, 
Tho only alternative I have would bo 
to resign and my position moans so
Skibo Girls Will Oppose 
Westminster Sat. Evening
As a fitting climax to Carnegie 
Tecli’s inter-collegiate basket ball 
season, tho Girls’ varsity will meet 
Westminster College tills Saturday 
evening at S:15 p. in., in tho Field 
House. A game was played last 
night with tlio Westminster girls at 
Now Wilmington, and was a battle 
Ircni start to fiulsh, which in itself 
presages a royal good fight iu the 
Field House Saturday evening.
At this writlug the girls are going 
good, and should turn in another vic­
tory in this game, provided of course 
theo" do not get over-confident and 
forget that all games are won only 
through hard fighting on the lloor. 
Many a great basket ball team has 
fallen to a much inferior team on 
account' of this peculiar state of the 
mind.
Miss B own a n has welded together 
a bunch of good individual players In­
to a splendid team, knowing how to 
carryin the ball from under their ene­
mies’ goal to tlioir forwards through 
accurate passing down the lloor, and, 
after this is done, can shoot fairly 
accurately. This ability coupled with 
the old Cariiogie Tech light makes 
them a team to be feared by any 
team which assay? the problem of 
stopping thom.
A big and enthusiastic crowd 
should be present to cheer them on 
to victory Saturday night, and (help 
end their season with an entry on 
tho winning sido of tho lodger.
Inter-Dormitory League.
Under tho direction of tho Girls’ 
Athletic Association, the Inter-Dor­
mitory basket ball reams began prac­
tice last week. Each team has its 
own managor and coacli, as well as 
cheer loader, and interest is running 
high sinco thoro are two teams from 
Forbes Hall, two from Mellon, two 
from Woodlawn, as well as a team 
representing the town girls.
Inter-class games will end. this 
week—winner.1.’ unknown as yet.
Gertrude Lyons Is busy arranging 
something attractive In tennis for 
the girls, and she promises nows 
along this lino for next week.
TIME OF LOVE AND 
SORE MUSCLES HERE
Athletes Romp in Youthful 
Might; Old Man Winter 
is Put to Flight
time during this half. But the punch
necessary to pass the Beavers was not I much to myself and my family that I 
forthcoming, and by means of som."' | cannot do that, 
sonsational shooting, tho lattor again x wjn bo horo as much as. I can.
forged into the load and socurod a 
comfortable margin of safety.
Both teams showed flashes of son­
sational playing at time's. The sad 
feature for the Carnegie rooters was 
that such periods camo oftener to tho 
home team than to the Plttsburghors.
Donahue was the high scoror for 
the Plaid. He scored a total of six 
field goals. Gibson followed with 
three, and Anderson contributed two. 
Besides these, Molirman and Cook 
each added two points to the Tartan 
total from the field. Dosey did some 
good woiic from the foul line, caging 
13 out of 19 chances.
For Geneva, Wild lead with eight 
field tallies, Boren and Schupe each 
made five, and Pleckert rung up two. 
In addition, Boren looped 13 out of 
20 from the miscue mark. The lineup:
Geneva—53 Carnegie—41
Boren.................... F...................Anderson
Schupe.................. F....................Donahue
Wild.........................C.............................Dosey
Heckert................ G. ..............Gibson
Hudson................ G...................Mohrman
Substitutions—Cook for Dosey, Do­
sey for Cook, Cook for Dosey, Mc- 
Grew' for Hudson, Hudson for Mc- 
Grew, Lewis for Schupe, Ray for 
Heckert, Klee for Hudson. Field goals 
—Boren 5, Schupe 5, Wild 8, Heckert 
2; Anderson 2, Donahue 6, Gibson 3, 
Mohrman, Cook. Foul goals—Boren, 
13 out of 20; Dosey, 13 out of 19; An­
derson, 2 out of 3. Referee—Baird.
Standing of the Inter-Fraternity-Dor- 
mitory Basket Ball Leagues
NATIONAL LEAGUE
Kappa Sigma Rho 
Beta Theta Pi ....
Sigma Epsilon Phi
Won
5
Lost
1.833
1.833
31.750
33.500
22.50024.333
14.200
05.000
AMERICAN LEAGUE
WonSigma Nu ............................................................................................... r,
PI Kappa Alpha ............................................................................ 4
Boss Hall ...................................................... ...........................................’ 4
Tau Gamma Phi ...........................................'........................... ?,
Woodlawn Club ....................................................................... . . . . . . 2
Delta Upsilon ...............................................................................
Delta Mu ................................................. .. * ’ o
McGill Hall ........................................................0
FEDERAL LEAGUE
_ . WonBeta Sigma Rho ............................................................................. 5
Xi Sigma Upsilon ..........................................................5
Kappa Sigma .......................................................... . ..................... o
Theta Xi .................................................... ..................... 2
Welch Hall ...........................  ...................................!!.*’!..”*! i2
Square and Compass ....................................................1
Henderson Hall ..............................................1..... .1 0
Loot
0
1
2
Lost
1
1
2
3
3
4 
4
1.000
.800
.666
.500
.400
.400
.285
.000
.833
.833
.600
.400
.400
.200
.000
Perhaps I can bo horo moro than I 
havo indicated, but I cannot stay horo 
permanently. I must do tho light 
thing. Thanking you for tho ovation 
you havo tondorod mo, I approclato 
it."
Tho nows was disheartening, but 
we all folt that Wally was tho most 
disappointed of us all and is doing 
all he can for us. If wo all got a 
spirit of co-operation In this crisis 
like the spirit he has shown, we shall 
come out all right. Tho spirit is what 
counts.
Colgate Rifle Team Falls 
Victim of Plaid Shooting
A prone match with Colgate Uni­
versity last week resulted in a vic­
tory for the Carnegie Tech rifle team, 
which scored 495 as against 475 
scored by Colgate Considerable im­
provement in shooting was .shown by 
the • team since its last match with 
Harvard when Harvard was beaten.
The individual scores of the men 
were as follows:
Swanson ...................................................100
K. B. Foster ........................................... 99
Darnall ........................................................ 99
Hamill ........................................................ 99
Hauser ........................................................ 98
495
Burgis ....................................................... 97
J. V. Foster ............................................. 97
N. Thompson ......................................... 97
Vana ............................................................ 93
Murray ........................................................ 91
475
The five highest scores of the ten 
men shooting counted In the final 
score, A number of rifle club mem­
bers were given chances in prelimin­
ary competition matches to qualify 
for the team, Murray, ono of tho 
members, won a place In this match.
As a result of an election last week 
Swanson wan elected captain of tho 
rifle team. Swanson Is a good shot 
and Is capable of turning out a strong 
team.
The team Is taking on Johns-Hop- 
klns University this woolc in a stand­
ing and prone match. It Is difficult 
to predict the score in tho standing 
match at tills time, sinco it Is the first 
standing match of tills year. New 
men will likely play somo part in tills 
match.
SOPH HOP TO BE GIVEN
IN ARTS FOYER, MARCH
(Contlnuod From Pago Ono.) 
bo suitable for card cases 01* note­
pad covers, so It was thought by th 
committee that I lie,mo would suffice 
as favors, so arrangements havo 
boon made for enough to glvo to 
tlio ladlos as woll as to tho gentle­
men.
In accordance with tho ruling of 
the College ol' Fine Alia wll.li rogard 
to smoking, provisions havo boon 
made for thoso who wish to smoko 
wliilo resting, and will talco form In 
two loungo spacos, one at each end 
ol’ Mio foyer. These will he fitted 
oui to bo as comfortable as possible, 
and at Ilio samo timo boi uso ful lo 
thoso who smoko. Throughout Ilio 
ovoning, punch will bo sorvod, In 0110 
of tlicso lounges.
Tho orchestra lias arranged sovoral 
new “bits’’ which will bo Introduced 
from1 time to timo throughout tho 
dance, and It Is well to repeat that 
tho Mason-Dlxon Sovon has grown 
to have elovon pieces.
Checking facilities havo boon nr 
ranged and wraps may bo loft in tho 
checkroom at the head of tho first 
stairs from tho Woodlawn avenue en­
trance.
As a final statement, the commlt- 
too asks thoso who want tlckots to 
apply early, and those who havo 
tickets and are going to the hop to 
come at 9:00 sharp.
Bill Buckley—When I marry I'm go­
ing to marry a girl who can take a 
joke.
One of the Deadlier Sex—Don’t 
worry, little boy, It’s tho only kind 
you’ll get.—University Hatchet.
COGNIZANCE
Throughout the world 
wherever there Is a bank­
ing center travelers’ 
checks, or a letter of cred­
it issued by the Mellon 
National Bank will be rec­
ognized and quickly cash­
ed. Both comfort and cre­
dentials are assured 
through arranging the de­
tails of your trip through 
our Steamship Agency.
Mellon National BankOliver Jlue.& StmthfieldJL
Spring, gentlo and balmy as usual, 
has peeped her fair head out from 
behind Oldi Man Winter’s Hewing 
garments and is just Availing for the 
psychological time to give the old 
boy a jolt by coming from her long 
retirement and once more gamboling 
011 the green. But this is not a song 
of Spring; other poets have immor­
talized the season of love and joy far 
beyond our poor powors oil expres­
sion. Nay, this is a story of the 
cinder track, of the flexing of ath­
letic limbs, of the odor of witch 
Hazel, of the labors of assistant man­
agers.
For those who still don’t know 
what It is all about, we shall explain 
that this is tho weekly splurge, about 
the track team. Coach Beeler is a 
firm believer in the power of the 
press. It happens that ho holds a 
degree in journalism himself, and 
(this is a secret) was connected with 
one of the leading newspapers of 
tho west' before heeding the call of 
tho coaching; profession. He i’ore- 
soolc Mexican Athletics for tho Real 
Stuff, so to speak.
The schedule of tho 1923 trade 
meets was published in a recent is­
sue of The Carnogio Tartan. It lias, 
however, boon revised slightly with 
tlio following change. The original 
program called for a dual meet with 
Genova College 011 tho fifth of May, 
but owing to tho fact that Geneva 
could not compete at that 'time, Ponn 
State has been scheduled Instead. 
Tho moot is at State College and 
should be good competition for both 
teams.
Invitations havo boon issued for 
'tlio annual Inter-Scholastic Moot, to 
¡bo hold horo tho same date that tho 
Carnegie varslliyi travels to Ponn 
Stato. All home moots, Including 
the Intor-Scholastic, will bo hold 011 
tho now Skibo cinder path. Tile man­
agers aro rapidly getting the track 
Into perfect shape, and tlio location 
has many advantages ovor that of 
tho Sohonloy Oval.
Tho first moot Is 011 April 2S. 
Thoro in it strong possibility thal; 
three loams may bo In action In dif­
ferent parts of the country on that 
dato. Sovoral. men will In nil proba* 
blllty he sent to the Drake Relays 
In lown.; another squad may travel 
lo Philadelphia to participate In the 
Ponn Relays, while the rest ol' tho 
team will meet Marietta In a dual 
moot horo, A largo day!
A few remarks about the men who 
aro competing for tlio various posi­
tions aro In order. Tho 'following 
men havo boon shewing some good 
stuff lu the dashes; Lockwood, 
Robertson, Bolin, .1. Chrlstoo. Homo 
ol' tho' middle distance runners aro 
S'/old, Captain Brumbaugh, 'Schwab, 
.lamos, Met/,gar and Forml. Long 
distance kings are Dykcnmn, Form], 
Mondonhall, Atwoodi and Bright. 
Most of those wore members of tlio 
cross-country squad.
Loughiie and James hope to navi­
gate tho hurdles; and Garo, a vot­
er,an, Is oxp'ootod to put In a bid in 
tills oYont soon. Turning to tho field 
events, wo find Sprinkle, Middleton, 
Yoder. Schlllinger, Landis and Com­
fort warming up for the weight 
events. Robertson and Pittman aro 
expected to take a fling at the broad 
jump; the latter holds the school 
record In tills number. Oblo New­
man bas also decided to lend his col­
orful personality! to the track room. 
He expects to jump and hurdle
A large number of other men aro 
showing u,p for dally practice and 
will be heard fronl whon tho varsity 
squad begins to take definite shape. 
These men include Ashe, Caine, Eat­
on, Fire, Fencil, Groneaur, Gqttwa’lls, 
I-Iedler, Harris, Tribarren, Jones, 
Kramer, Krebs, List, Liborknight, 
Morrison, Rigglemicr, Dashbach, 
Schuckor, Sampson, Tubbs, Tbomaa, 
Whitman, Walker.'
Wo can’t close this story without 
some mention of the managerial staff. 
Don Williams is the big gazabo, with 
Enos Johnston and Ellis Robertson 
as his first assistants are Frazier, 
pill, Srimgeour and Gibson. Rice 
and Owens havo reported at Plebe 
assistants. Como on there, Plebesf 
Give these men a little competition!
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Men’s Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE
Flowers for Every Occasion
Gift Boxes 
Corsages 
Plants 
Decorations
Tech Btmlonta will find that our prices nro In keeping with the quality 
and service.
A. W. Smith Company
LIBERTY AT SIXTH AVENUE PENN AT STANWIX STREET
Phone Smlthfleld 327.
Delivered anywhere in United States or Canada.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, MARCH 7. 1923
Youngstown Clanners 
Meet at Brittany Inn
All Exchange Reminiscences 
and Play Five Hundred
The regular meeting oi tho girl«' 
Youngstown Clan was held at the 
Brittany Inn, Youngstown, Ohio, on 
Saturday afternoon, February 24, the 
following being present: Miss Clare
Todd, president; Mrs. .Tolin Baton, 
vice president; Miss Elizabeth Ste­
venson, Miss Corlnne Adams, Mrs. 
Clydo Roller, Miss Lomax, Miss Col­
lin« of Youngstown, Mrs. Selple and 
Mrs. MacDougal of Greenvlllo, Mrs, C. 
A. Ferguson and Miss F. A. Fllnn of 
Sharon. Hostesses wore Mrs. Holler 
and Miss Stevenson.
Miss Edice Relder has boon elected 
secretary of the clan, and Mrs. John 
Eaton, vice president.
Flvo hundred proved an Interesting 
diversion, in addition to which there 
was tiie usual exchange of school rem­
iniscences. A most delightful Brit­
tany Inn dinner was sorved. By the 
way, the Brittany Inn is ownod and 
managed, by Corlnne Adams, formerly 
cafeteria directress at Carnegie Tech.
Bernic Muct Have Been Near. 
Curan (riding by train to Baltimore) 
—If I had known that tunnel was so 
long, I would have kissed you.
Bllzzy Dond—Good heaven, wasn’t 
that you?—Univorslty Hatchet.
Judge—What Is the charge against 
this man?
Cop—He had Ills car parked on the 
sido of the road.
Judge—Why wore you parked,
young man?
Young Man—My car had a miss In
It.
.VHTO
"’HE name VENUS is your 
• guarantee of perfection. 
A brio l u t e I v crum ole- proof, 
smooth ana perfectly'gracled.
7 DTiGUl-IiS 
aB iioft & black H mod, Iiiud 
B Hofc aI I hard
F firm extra nnrd
HU modluin—for gonoral uso 
15c fior tube of 12 h'ttthi $1,51) per lubes 
Ifyminlunlurcnnnotiiupjilyyouwrltoii«.
Amoricnn Lend Pencil Co. 
¿«13 Fifth Avo,, Dupe, i New York 
/lift us nboilt the iien1 
VIJNUS JJVlini'OINTliD PIJNCII.fl
Requirements For Good
Salesmanship OutlinedDRII DVETOTAUPNSoubmmiEtAGOy uVNlt anDstNF rB
What are the qualifications demand­
ed to mako a person a good salesman? 
01ft of gab, you would probably Im­
mediately answor. Or perhaps you 
would say lntollect, disposition, wit, 
or any of a hundred characteristics 
that are Inherit In a salesman. Yet, 
If wo wore aakod to toll which of a 
group of men wero host suited for a 
cortaln sales proposition, wo undoubt­
edly would Jiavo little Idea of how to 
pick them other than by guoss and 
appearance.
One of the most active departments 
In Carnegie is taking the guess and 
chance out of choosing salesmen and 
Is using Instead the slogan 'every day 
In every way wo are enabling sales 
concerns to choose better salesmen.’ 
Bill Lange, who graduated, last year, 
from Science with a doijroe In Com­
mercial Engineering Is now actively 
working for this department, and 
through him many of the Interesting 
sides of salesmanship were uncovered.
This department, known as the Bu­
reau of Personal Research of the Dl- 
vlBlon of Co-operative Research car- 
rlos out Us surveys of sales organiza­
tions In a very careful and scientific 
manner. If a largo sales concern 
asks the school for a survey of Its 
sales organization, certain men from 
the Bureau go to the company and 
endeavor to secure the co-operation 
of the salesmen of the company. This 
part of the survey, securing the aid of 
the salesmen is absolutely essential 
to the success of the survey as a 
great deal of the work Is carried on 
through these men. After assuring 
thomselves of co-operation, the Car­
negie men then go on the road with 
the salesmen to all parl;s or the coun­
try wherever the company lias trade. 
Conditions of the trade, character of 
the ipeoplo served, climate, anything 
and everything that might influence 
sales are carefully studied. This part 
of the survey is carried on for from 
two months to over a year until all 
the conditions have boon exactly de­
termined. With this Information the 
Bureau dovlses tests that are given 
to the salesmen to check on their abll 
lty. The results of the survey are 
then roportad back to the company 
conducting the survey.
It has been found hy the Bureau 
that mental alertnoss rather than pro- 
XELTD oducatlon is the prime requisite 
of a Rood salesman. It has also boen 
found that a man of superior Intelli­
gence as determined hy his mental 
alertnoss should not he picked for 
certain sales propositions such as 
house to houso salos because ho will 
louvo the company boforo ho has 
servod his usefulness to the company. 
One company survoyod by the do- 
partmont claimed to loso one thousand, 
dollars every time It lost a sales man, 
and with a turnover of !l!l 1-8 per cent 
In a year the loss amounted to a largo 
sum. By the uso of moro exact means 
of picking their salesmon this com-
Thls afternoon from three to six, 
the co-eds of Carnegie are invited to 
attend a tea given by the Lutheran 
Student Club of Pittsburgh at the 
Lutheran Student House, 200 N. Dlth- 
rldge stroet, In honor of Miss Mary E. 
Markloy, Secretary of the National 
Student Association, who will make a 
short stop here on her way to the 
Wost. Miss Markloy wishes to meet' 
as many women students of Pitts­
burgh as possible during her short 
stay hero. Preparations are being 
made for a largo attendance.
354 SENIORS MAY
GRADUATE IN JUNE
(Continued From Pago One)
Science ...................................................... 4
Physical Education ............................. 0
Editorial Secretary ............................. 7
Costume IDconomlcs ........................... 13
Social Work ........................................... 1»
Secretarial ............................................... 17
Household Economics ...................... 29
........................ Industries.
Heating and Ventilating.................... 1
Power Plant Operation.................... 3
Electrical Equipment ......................... 4
Printing ...................................................... 5
Building Construction ...................... 11
Machine Production .....................
Science.
Physics J................................................... 2
Chemistry Science ............................. 2
Chemical Engineering ....................... 9
Metallurgical Engineering................ 15
Civil Engineering .................................. 13
Commercial Engineering ................ 27
Electrical Engineering .................... 33
Mechanical Engineering .................. 3*1
There are in addition, 17 short 
course miners who will graduate and 
75 two year men in other courses, 
The space occupied by the Seniors 
In the Thistle will amount to 71 
pages.
It is interesting to note that the 
present graduating class had 1,096 
members in its Freshman year 
These statistics w'ouhl seem to indi­
cate that about one-third of Carne­
gie Freshmen graduate from the In' 
stitullon.
STUDENT REFUGEES
Help Should Be Given to 
Many Thousands of For­
eign Students
STEFFEN WILL COME BACK
TO HELP CARNEGIE
pany is enabled to save a large 
amount of money each year.
If the various sales organizations 
were classed in the following live di­
visions: Engineering, Insurance, Of­
fice Specialties, House to House, and 
Salesmen Selling to Retail Trade, the 
engineering salesman would be re­
quired to have the highest degree of 
Intelligence, the insurance salesman 
somewhat ELFDR and on down to the 
retail trade salesman for whom a very 
low grade would sufllce. Thus in pick­
ing salosmen, critical points are set 
for the tests, the men securing higher 
grades being chosen while those mak­
ing lowor grados would bo eliminated.
The last survey completed by the 
Bureau was a survey for the Ameri­
can Radiator Company conducted un- 
dor tho supervision of Mr. Konogy.y
Movie directors, please copy
N fiction and the movies nil college men natu­
rally fall into two groups. Those who pass 
their days and nights “Rah! B.ah!”-ing and 
snake-dancing; and those who never appear 
except with evening clothes—and cane.
The man who works his way through college 
simply doesn’t figure.
Taking care of a furnace, running a laundry, 
waiting on tabic, tutoring, covering for a city 
paper, working in shop or office in vacation— 
all this may be lacking in romantic appeal, but 
it is nil essential part of the college picture.
And n valuable part. The whole college is 
the gainer for the earnestness of mep who want 
their education that hard.
Valuable to the college, but even more to the 
men who travel I his rough going. They learn 
an important lesson in Applied Kcononiics 
the amount of sweat a ten dollar hill represents.
If you are one of them you may sometimes 
feel that you are missing a good deal of worth­
while college life. If you arc not, you may be 
missing a good deal, too.
Company
Since 1S69 makers and distributors of electrical equipment
Refugees form a large element in 
tho student population of Central, 
Europe and the Near East. Next to 
saving the students in Russia itself 
the task of meeting the needs of 20,- 
000 refugee students in the areas 
touched by the European Student Re­
lief constitutes our most serious task.
The question is often asked, how 
did these students become refugees? 
Why do they not return to their own 
country? There are various reasons 
for this. Siome of them are as fol­
lows:
Students wno were studying away 
from their own country, and because 
of the outbreak of the war or some 
convultlon in their homeland, have 
had their communications with home 
cut off.
Students who have been on the los­
ing side in civil war or revolution 
and have fied from their own country.
Students who were prisoners of 
war.
Students, who though in their own 
country, are nevertheless, refugees. 
To this class belong the students, 
whether Armenians, Turks, or Greeks, 
who have lost home and family 
through successive wars, revolutions 
and massacres in the territory of the 
old Ottoman Empire. Today practic- 
j ally every Armenian student is a ref- 
1 ugee. There are 090 refugee Greek 
students in the University of Athens.
Why Should We Help Them?
Refugee students have neai'ly al­
ways passed through great suffering 
from war, imprisonment, epidemics 
and starvation. They are very often 
nervously exhausted or otherwise in 
bad health. Tuberculosis is rampant 
among them. This increases the dif­
ficulty of finding them work and also 
militates against their success in their 
studies.
Time is not on the side of the refu­
gee. Students in their own land, as 
their country settles down, see their 
prospects brighten. The refugee sees 
his grow steadily darker. 1-Ie finds 
himself often in a strange or even 
hostile environment. When he seeks 
work, he finds a prejudice against the 
employment of the foreigner, or even 
a boycott against him. Even where 
groups of refugees have been well re­
ceived at first, as year after year 
passes they cannot return, assistance 
is withdrawn.
The Refugee, man for man, noeds 
far more help than other students. 
In many cases ho has lost all his re­
lations, or is completely cut off from 
news of them. He gets no supplies 
from home, and has nothing to fall 
back upon, no home, no clothes, no 
money. He is a, prey to isolation and 
despair, and If not helped to conquer 
his circumstances, often degenerates 
and becomes a danger. Several Rus­
sian students in Prague have lately 
committed suicide or gone out of their 
minds on hearing from Russia that 
their parents or other relatives were 
dying of starvation.
DRIVE TO AID EUROPEANS
IN UNIVERSITIES
(Continued from Page One) 
food, necessary textbooks, and money 
to continue their work, these Euro­
pean students still carry on to tho 
best of their ability. In some parts 
of Europe the edict has gone out that 
those who do not work do not eat, 
and whore this is tho case, the uni­
versities have adopted the plan of 
scheduling classes 'from live in the 
afternoon until eleven at night, in 
order to give the students opportunity 
to perform the necessary work which 
entitles them to food enough to mere­
ly keep body and soul together.
Conditions among students in Rus­
sia, .which is one of the countries hit 
the hardest by the war, can he best 
described by the words of Dr. Rund, 
one of the relief •workers recently re­
turned from that country. Dr. Rund 
says in part:
“Barefoot, ragged students,. stamp­
ing their feet on the floor of an un­
heated classroom in order to keep 
warm while their professors equally 
ragged, paced the platform for the 
same reason, form one phase of a 
memory picture which I brought out 
of Russia.
“These students will be the hope 
of Russia as far as the health of fu­
ture generations is concerned. These 
students and their instructors have 
accomplished startling things, particu­
larly in medicine, even while they 
have been cut off from contact with 
tho outside world’s progress.
"While ragged and half fed, they 
still have a determination which is 
amazing. In the medical department 
tho operations are performed with 
oven more metrlculous caro than I 
saw in Gorman hospitals, despite 
their shortago of supplies. And every 
medical student, boforo ho gets 
through with his training lias to per­
form probably sovonty or oighty ma­
jor operations undor tho watchful 
oyos of the instructors.
“Tho spirit shown hy students to­
ward professors is marked, for when 
somo of the profossors in the Univer­
sity of Odessa wero. on tho verge of 
starvation last winter, students pooled 
their food and gave up from their pit­
tance enough to save their instruc­
tors.
To me the news that the American 
Relief Administration has put into 
effect a clothing remittance system 
means that thousands of students and 
instructors throughout Russia will 
world the effects of the wonderful 
have a chance to preserve to the 
training they are getting. And it is 
a big opportunity for America to help, j
(Continued From Page One) 
t.ion to a fitting conclusion by enter­
taining their coach at a banquet held 
at the S. A. E. house, was almost too 
much for him to fully realize how 
badly he is needed at Carnegie.
With last year’s captain, Jimmy An­
derson acting as toastmaster of the 
occasion, things got started in a pep­
py fashion. Jimmy himself got the 
hall rolling hy injecting a few anec­
dotes that created the atmosphere of 
the whole evening.
Captain-elect Jimmie Robertson, 
when called upon to say a few words 
sensed the voice of all the squad by 
promising Wally bulldog determina­
tion to fight for their college and 
through his efforts.
Resigning Captain-elect, Hugh 
iStprinkle, carried along the spirit of 
the banquet by expressing the squads’ 
appreciation for what Wally has ac­
complished with them as his source 
of material.
Red Godden and A1 Irwin, captains 
of the team two years in advance of 
Jimmy Anderson each told the retir­
ing coach how they too would like to 
be lucky enough to play in the Pitt- 
Tech game once again. Buddy Over­
end is so fond of making speeches 
that he thought best not to arouse his 
inclinations for fear Wally. wouldn’t 
have a chance to catch a ten o’clock 
train hack to Windy City, so he mod­
estly retired to his seat to make room 
for Dean Munball, who brought down 
the crowd with that same-never-worn- 
out Freeport story which every foot­
ball player knows verbatum. Who 
dare accuse little Burt for putting on 
such a banquet spread that even Rich­
ard the Lion-hearted would gorge to 
his limited capacity? The boys and 
Wally enjoyed it. Burt.
At a certain place around the ban­
quet table, an architectural-looking 
gentleman couldn’t quite see why they 
didn’t call on the manager for a con­
tribution along the speech line. May­
be he knew too much about Freeport 
for the ease of others also around the 
table. After the rousing reception by 
those who did the preliminary speak­
ing, Wally responded with a lengthy 
speech for the ovation given him. He 
also stated his sincere regret that his 
duties as a Judge in Cook County, 
Illinois, would not permit him to be 
absent from the bench more than 
the month of September and each 
week-end throughout the season.
He urged that the hoys go in for 
early practice by hardening up during 
the summer months. “Every man of 
you who is able, must keep eligible 
and he back in the best of condition 
in order to assure your student body 
the success that awaits them through 
you next fall,” urged Wally.
His speech though not all so se­
rious did outline the work as far as 
can ho stated at this time. He will 
have a coaching staff of a number qf 
able assistants who thoroughly under­
stand his system of coaching and can 
co-operate well with him during his 
absence for the fow days each week.
Steffen had to pull himself away 
from tho entertainment In time to 
board the Chicago train, but he left 
a message with his men that he left 
courage them to keep a stiff upper lip 
till training time in the fall.
It is not certain that training quar­
ters will or will not be at Camp Louise 
Carnegie. The distance from the city 
has in the past hinderod practice con­
siderably when the hoys return to take 
re-exams.
KILT CAMPAIGN TO 
ASSUME NEW TURN
The 1922 football squad wish- * 
es to thank the Musical and •!* 
Glee Clubs for the enjoyable en- 
-I- tertainment and music at Wally’s •!* 
•J» banquet. ?
>$• -!? *’•*»!? -!? ? *3* ?
FOUND—rFriday night, February 
23, at the Carnegie Union, one gold 
Eversliarp' pencil. Owner may have 
by calling Walnut 1032, between 6 
and S p. m., and identifying same.
Loyal Alumnus Sends in His 
Contribution Which 
Must Be Earned
Here’s one to make you think. A 
loyal and very active Alumnus (al­
though he is about 300 miles from 
Dear Old TOcli), sends in a good sized 
check to he applied to the Kilt Fund 
on the condition that it is matched by 
contributions from 100 other Alumni. 
So let’s do our part and earn this 
alumnus’ check.
As for the Alumni in the Pitts­
burgh district, they may expect a vis­
it some day this week from a member 
of one of the Senior classes, who will 
leave with them an envelope ad­
dressed to the Alumni office which is 
to be used to enclose a contribution 
to the Kilt Fund.
FACULTY SUBDUED BY
DEANS IN SPECTACULAR
BASKET BALL GAME
Public Sales
We have purchased 122,000 
pairs U. S. Army Munson last 
shoes, sizes 5/z to 12, which 
was the entire surplus stock of 
one of the largest U. S. Govern­
ment shoe contractors.
This shoe is guaranteed one 
hundred per cent solid leather, 
color dark tan, bellows tongue, 
dirt and waterproof. The ac­
tual value of this shoe is $6.00- 
Owing to this tremendous buy 
we can offer same to the public 
at $2.95.
Send correct size. Pay post­
man on delivery or send money 
order. If shoes are not as rep­
resented we will cheerfully re­
fund your money promptly upon 
request.
National Bay State 
Shoe Company
296 BROADWAY 
NEW YORK, N. Y.
(Continued From Page One) 
of the whistle in high C, and the fight 
was on.
Dog Eat Dog.
Never again will the campus see 
such a contest; never again will the | 
Langley Lab house see such heroic 
efforts, such herculean feats of 
strength and skill, and such tireless 
playing on the parts of both teams. 
From the first it could be seen' that 
the deans had slightly the edge on 
their game opponents, although “Kid” 
Porter of the faculty repeatedly volt- 
ed from place to place, with Taylor 
forging close behind. Dean Tarbell 
had an unerring eye for weak places 
in the opponents’ defense, and time 
after time tore through for large 
gains, much to Timekeeper Heyl’s sat­
isfaction. At the end^-of the first half 
“Shorty” Whitman was accused of 
fouling, much to his intense indigna­
tion, but after the situation had been 
taken up by the Curriculum Commit­
tee, passed on hy the Deficiencies 
Council, ratified hy the Advisory Com­
mittee, and approved by a majority of 
those present, sentence was revoked.
Unerring Accuracy.
But it was in the second half that 
the great exhibition of craft and skill 
was given by “Bon” Mott, star center 
of the Deans. Seeing his chance, he 
dashed the ball from the hands of 
“Pitchfork” Taylor, and dribbled it 
rapidly down the floor, toward his 
own goal. The opponents, dumb­
founded hy this new phase of the 
question, were at a loss as to just 
what this new strategy meant, and 
stood with their mouths agape, while 
“Kid” Porter gasped "watt’s watt” in 
a frantic fashion.
Not for an instant did “Bon” Mott 
hesitate. With a loud cry of triumph 
he tossed the ball over his left side 
at the right wall of the gym. The 
sphere, sensing instantly what was ex­
pected of it, carromed over to a near­
by girder, bounced off “I-Ioss” Stern- 
felt’s head, and fell straight through 
the basket. Marvellous!
Pass the Flowers.
Never has the reporter seen such 
a daring coup so successfully accom­
plished. The spectator had torn off 
his overalls in his enthusiasm, and, 
refusing to be quieted, rushed out and 
knelt before the victorious Deans, 
which they seemed to appreciate ex­
ceedingly.
When approached by the reporter 
as to a statement Dean Mott remarked 
simply, “I done my dooty as I seen 
it.”
CARNEGIE TECH 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 
-------THE-------
Collegiate
Imps
ORCHESTRA 
STEPHEN KOVACH, JR. 
Manager and Director 
Schenley 9211
Teague—You dance well.
Ruby—I love to.
Teague—Then we’ll love.—Gold and 
Black.
He is so dumb he thinks that be­
cause a crank can start something 
that he is a source of horsepower.— 
Centre College.
ATCR.ON—Secretary, A. C. Sprague, P,. F.( D. No. 24, South Akron, O.
BOSTON—Secretary, J. F. Maxwell, 220 Billings Road, Wollaston, 
Mass.
BUFFALO—Secretary, G. D. Martin, 523 East Ferry Street.
CHICAGO—Secretary, I. S. Stark, 1552 East 63rd Street.
CINCINNATI—Secretary, Mary Zarobsky, 25 East Ninth Street.
CLEVELAND—Secretaiy, E. F. Lundeen, 12722 Barrington Avenue. 
Women's Clan Secretary, Mrs. E. C. Speaker, 10906 Woodstock 
Avenue.
DAYTON—Secretary, L. H. Siegler, 2505 West Riverview Avenue.
DETROIT—Secretary, H. A. Neel, 1615 Cadillac Avenue.
ERIE—Secretary, K. L. Konnertli, 1024 West Twenty-seventh Street.
ELLWOOD CITY—Acting Secretary, George Dunseith, Jr., East 
Cottage.
HARRISBURG—Secretary, Mrs. A. G. Green, 419 Woodbine Street.
HARTFORD—Acting Secretary, R. W. Arnold, 701 Telephone Build­
ing, S. N..E. T. Co., New Haven, Conn.
HUNTINGTON—Secretary, J. F. De Young, 808 Second St., E.
JOHNSTOWN—Acting Secretary, R. W. WalUce, 641 Horner St.
LOS ANGELES—Secretary-Treasurcr, Frederick Kindle, 2201 Min­
eral Avenue.
MONONGAliELA VALLEY—Secretary, C. A. Stone, 521 Washing­
ton Avenue, Charleroi, Pa.
NEW CASTLE—Acting Secretaiy, P. W. Marceau, 202 Shenango St.
NEW YORK—Secretary, J. A. Cameron, 136 Park Avenue, West­
chester Park, Tuckahoe, N. Y.
NORFOLK—Secretary, J. W. Phillips, 611 Raleigh Avenue.
PHILADELPHIA—Secretary, W. P. Lippincott, 600 Washington 
Avenue, Palmyra, N. J.
PITTSBURGH—Secretary, A. J. Hynd, Carnegie Institute of Tech­
nology.
SHARON—Acting Secretary, W. J. Thomas, Jr., 95 W. Franklin St.
ST. LOUIS—Acting Secretary, M. A. Zeller, 1946 Railway Exchange 
Building.
WASHINGTON, D. C.—Secretary, H. W. Haller, 1103 Munsey Bldg.
YOUNGSTOWN—Secretary, L. D. Woodworth, 1913 Southern Blvd.
YOUNGSTOWN—Women’s Clan. Secretary, Miss Bernice Pickens, 
1422 Wick Avenue.
WATCH THE CLAN COLUMN EVERY WEEK
A complete line of the 
most beautiful patterns 
ever assembled.
C. A. Heimert
3614 FORBES STREET 
Where ALL The Students Go.
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Company
Member Federal 
Reserve System
Capital.............................$200,000.00
Surplus arid Undivided
Profits..........................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $4,000,000.00 
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
I2MSM3J3M3ÍSJSMSISM3M2MSJ3 
GO TO THE
Tech Barber Shop
FOR YOUR HAIR CUTS 
Five Barbers at your service. 
Cor. CRAIG and FORBES STS.
Compliments ¡| 
of g
Skibo Inn 1
After Every Meal
WHOEYS
Chew your food 
well, then use 
WRIGLEY’S to 
aid dlgesUon. 
it also keeps 
the teeth clean, 
breath sweet, 
appetite keen.
The Great American 
Sweetmeat
0002000002010000010102010002
