VOL. XXI NO. 22CARNEÒIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1927
PLAJD CAGERS 
WIN 2 GAMES 
OVERWEEKEND
Defeat Rensselaer 43-18 on 
Friday, and City College of 
New York. 24-23 Saturday
C C.N.Y/S STREAK OF 
HOME WINS BROKEN
To Meet Grove City and Penn 
State This Week; Have 
Yet To Beat Lions.
The Plaid basketers spent a very profitable week-end in New York 
State, and came back with the scalps of two of their noted rivals - carefully packed away lu their pooches. On Friday evening they defeated Rensselaer at Troy, by the one-sided score of 43 to 18, and having nothing better to do, dropped down to ]
i day «! fir«a victory from City College, 24 
23. Throughout their brief so­journ in the Empire State, the SkJbos displayed an unbeatable brand of basketball, wblcb neither 
opponent was able to.solve.
Let State be warned, for at last the Scotch are on the rampage and are out for blood. When thoy meet State, next Thursday, on the bojne floor, It 'will bo a game worth seeing for the Sklbos have bit their stride. Tfce Sklbos also play Grave City next Saturday, and as they only beat us by ope point In the first of our two en­counters with them, they will have to display a better game than they did before, or they will be the 
fifth straight victim of the Plaid.
The Rensselaer game was one^ sided from start to finish. The Flald went scoring mad, and dropped shot after shot through the basket, while tbeir opponents watched them.
White started'the flro works for Carnegie, by dropping a pretty double decker in on a side court shot two minutes after the whis­tle blew. This was soon followed by 6hote from Harpeter and 
¿mans and before eight minutes had elapsed, the Sklbos were in the lead with 10 to l. : The -home team then began to- pick up,
Johnson Heads Committee 
For Annual Frolic of 
Industies Men
9 for the ' Gambol of the 
which will be held In the i a week from Friday night nine to one. The ofcheaUn has not yet been engaged.; "Gambol of the Guilds" 
i the annual Frolic of the
lir'as is possible. It constitutes ie' one affair of Lhe year when veryone may be him9elf and dis­play their spiriis theirFred Woods Is the chairman o f ibilcity and is also In charge' of jket sales. The tickets are on ile . today and the price Is $2.00 :i couple. Aa the demand forthe ticketsply limited, ihould buy early.The committee have not yet de­cided upon an ocbestra but bids being received from the foro- I, and
the i
I half timo the 12 In favor of Carnegfo.The second half begai rally I
themwithin
i 20 t
ought
Sklbos. Asians was then substi­tuted, and Carnegie steadily ad­vanced far to the fore of their now faltering opponents. At ;the final whistle the game stood at 43 to
Amrins displayed a beautiful of­fense throughout the encounter and made five of Carnegio’s field goals. Harpster was high point man, and played a wonderful defensive game, nine and time again stealing the ball from the op­position and- by a series of criss­cross pases worked the length of I ho floor to register.All in all the Pittsburghers were too fast and bad too smooth team work for the Troyites. The 
game was well attended, and It was noticed that no bottles were dropped during the session.The summaries for the game are as follows:Carnegie—43. Rensselaer—18 Amans ............F........ Liberty
HJtcl)c< Lynch•Field goals—Liberty, Robbins 3, Anderson, Peterson, Painter, Harpster S, White’ 4, Lynch 2, Hitchcock, Amons 5. Foul goals— Reueselaer, 4 out of 6; Carnegie, 3 out of 9. Substitutions—P eon for Painter, Amons for C 
Referee—Tilden.The City College game w far different encounter than of the evening before. This the first dereat for City College on their own floor In four 3 they did their level bei veut this catastrophe. The game was close from the first whistle, and both teams showed a snap and fight that is rarely seen. The New Yorkers had a smooth pass­ing attack/ but our own defense 
proyed more ' than they bad bar­gained, and they seldom pene­trated it The Tartan offense was good, and . the ¦ Sklbos had little trouble in getting near the basket.The lavender took; the lead with a ! field goal from. Rtibensteln, 
which, was soon retaliated with' foul shot from ' Harpeter and 
Wîilte. -Now Carnegie’s sci was brought to seven by bask from Amons and Lynch,, while Ru- bensteln scored a- two-pointer 
bringing CUy.College up to’foun A foul shot and field goal from Ru- bensteln. and the score was tie at seven all. Soon after successive • field goals brought Carnegie up to 
15. and just as the whistle blew HIrsch dropped one through, and the first half stood 15 to 9 In favor 
of >the Tartans.1 The second half parted off with . the Tartans .lengthening their lead frrgaining nino straight points and the score stood, at 21 to. 12 for some lime.. The lavender under the lead of Rubenstelu now began 
to-pull up.and they tle<!
cernlng dormitory girls and aut mobiles. It seems that the powei 
discovered the automobile 1
The-new rule, decrees eslding in the dormltoi àot be permitted to have fciies on the campus.
as, this affects us in more 5 than. one. It will enrich the :ab companies and at thd same increase the financial J>ur- 
dents of the struggling college
Soon Carnegie boys and girls vili have to resort to Iho tandem 
ind various other two-wheeled ootrivaDcee less harmful than the errible gasoline buggy.
We earnestly hope that such t-iil never be.
ANNUAL GAMBOL 
OF THE GUILDS 
FRIDAY, MARCH 4
wbicl
great
ntlon of 1remitteei. the najne ijv.the x
PURE” PUPPET APPEARS 
ON CAMPUS THURSDAY
•The Carnegie Puppet will make 3 appearance on Thursday, Feb- ?ary 24. at 11:30 a. m. rather laii on February 22 as was pre- lonsly announced. This issue
i the fortha
»ibllcations that evei h ' upon the Carnegie 1 stalk through the ma oe Siklbo. It wlil be
tin less dirt than the Student Di ictory. At the date of this writ ig nothing to the contrary could
THE WOMEN’S 
JUNIOR PROM 
FRIDAY NIGHT
Art Giles’ Everglade Club 
Orchestra to Provide 
Music This Year
Club” has been signed up to play at the Women’s Junior Prom. The “Everglade Club" has been playing 'for two years at Palm 
Beach. It Is from tbls famous re­sort that the Junior Womeu have enticed the 12 well known music makers, that are to provide the Prom music.
The tireless work of the From committees has finally brought ui- 
fairs to a slate where everything
the grand
jary 25. The danci 1 at nine promptly, \ Intermission at eleven During the ccBsatloi march will form and
room. While enroute to t mul mld-nlght supper, the ft will be given out At wbl , the dark but delightful
Of all the Arts, the .drama v'makes the widest appeal and ; the most checkered career/1 the opinion expressed by Presi­dent James R. Angell. of Yale, in 
hi» speech of welcome before' th< second Drama v Conference, held on February 11 and 12 
at Yale University;' New Haveu, Conn. . ’
enjoyed na­tional honor and prestige, only at another to find itself an outcast, a pariah, dwelling amid the dregs of the social order. Under both con­ditions it has powerfully atTected 
the prevailing current of human Dd tbe drama of our tbo gauntlet of these historic extremes.” He furtherj say, thus summing up
ferencc. held tblB year as summoned Tor the first time In Pittsburgh a yearaccording to Dr. Baker,
itiog was well attended—le playing host to approxlma 300 people. Plot. Baker. Yale, was appointed chairman ol
viewnlttei
? other
These gifts ily different and clever; ganizatlon having ever 
>efore even approached a favor of limllar design or originality.Tho following patrons and pa-
vill be present at the Prom: Dr. Baker,. Miss Breel, Dean Keeble, Spencer, tbe cly68 advisor. Winchester, tbe Senior class 
r. and Mr. and Mrs. W. Y. English. A largo table will be re- rvod for tbe committee and tests, patrons and patronesses.
Conference For 
Plumbers Feb. 18
Forty Plumbing Instructors 
to Discuss Training 
of Apprentices
The third anual conference raining instructors of plumb 
will be held in Pittsburgh Ir February 26 to-March 12, acco an announcement Tbe c
int will prevent Dean ¡nco at the Women’s 
Green is attending
be following are the girls of garet Morrison and Arts 
TThe who are on tbe Prora com­mittee: Lucille Galmlsb, chair-in; Catherine Wyman, Marlon Evelyn Offcelt, Jeai
Roy.ichellatherElizabeth
English and Mildred Y01
Additions Made to 
School’s Equipment
Within the last week both the 
Department of Mechanical En- 
ring and the Department or 
Mining secured additions to 
equipment. From the dona- 
of Industrial concerns the ¦tment of Coal Mining has donated a complete labora- unit 'for cleaning coal by the otator Company of 110 EastHydi>rty-s¡et. New
City. ¦ Thliig one of coal mlulng’6 great- robletns, that of reducing the •ntage of ash' in coal. Just important this is can tie seen when facts show that metailurgl-
it, 30 cper cent ash 1 than that from eight per cent ash coal. This means that 45 cent; can be; expended to reduce ash one
P Tbe new machine accomplishes its work of cleaning coal by tin hydrotator system. It is labora tory size and contains seven tanks, four centrifugal pumps, and tiui motors. It cost tbe' Hydrolatoi Company about $4,000.The. hydrotator unit cle I by a straight upward rising <1 rent of water, or by means of
The Department of Median
Combustion Enginec itlon of New York . brass model of the C-I
coal
:ompleted its fatal Complete details of 
the appointments will be made In re. It is desired by anyone Interested iu 
puppet work should report at the student publications ofiicc. There still remalps sufficient time to earn 
oiir activity key. __________
.ad thatand tightness by electric we ae well as oilier details of atructlon. They also furnished
Dr. Williams to Lecture on “Social 
Life Among Insects” February 27
Dr. Samuel H. Williams will lec- 
ire at 'the Carnegie Lecture Hall 1 Sunday afternoon,. February 2* 
"Social Life Among'the Insects. 
Dr. Williams- Is an authority on the subject of Entomology and adds considerably to the interest of his lectures by furnishing many Illus­
trations. _ wHe is a graduat
Now a technical foul 1:. called on the Not Yorkers, (Continued on Pag*. Two)
College, University of Pittsburgh and Carnegie Institute of Technol­ogy. For several years he was the head of the ICarUbo Station Sn 
British Guiana.' »hew he had charge o! -the university students. The ' 6tatlon ia maintained by the trniveisity 'of Pittsburgh. It established by William Beebe — the New York Zoological Society llhd iu considered one of the large-* and best equipped. In• the tropic Pnr a number of years he was chargé of the Biology Department .. Slippery; •' Rock State Normal ¡School, and six .or seven years ago W was' State National History In- 
ipttior Three years ago ho made
a trip to Mexico to collect various species oE insects. He. haa numerous contributions to science In tho field of Entomology on one of (he Pennsylvania State Surreys. At present he is Assh ant Professor in the Department Zoology at the University of Pitts­burgh.known Newrounaianu-which
Illustrated with exclusive flJi slides of . Newfoundland scenes. Newfoundland Is a great fishln couutry and'the slides that Mi Tate used showed plainly that, the country is a true flshermt 
dts'e.On Jrlarch 1. Dr. W. J.Director Emeritus of the Institute, will speak on “Japan Forty Y01
Two m<lectures, one ón March' 16: by'Ar­thur C. ' PlU.eT)ury. on- thé “Ufe Continued TP Pftge Three)
Dr. Baker Discusses High Points 
Of Drama Conference in Interview
ilttee to carry on plans for 
ir. Baker :ressed the belief that in the future regular conferences will l^a held annually ,and a natloual meetiDg will be called every
dommlttee to • fjjturo conféré
CAMPUS WEEK 
TO BE HEADED 
BYD0NDALT0N
( Eveibranch of Druvfaia discussed In the couree of the contention, such as Scenic Design,
qii-Jn brief twenty minute speeches uf leaders of drama in schools uptl colleges from all over the cbuntiy. Then the problems brought, were questioned and dls- cp?sed. Aleo dramatics in the schools, colleges, civic, and little theaters, outdoor and circuit thea­tres and in churches was treated Id tbe same manner.
“Tho development of the non- professional has been amazingly r|iplil. The changes in the regular professions theatre, have been no, less startling,” commented Iden ~ loyno, head of the drama de­ment at Carnegie, on the "New
CjlARNEGIE’S GLEE 
CLUB WINS HONORS
j ‘ _________
Awarded Honorable Men- 
tion at Glee Club Contest 
; Last Friday Evening
held 1auspici
i(oi Club Contest Vnegle J dpy. The c
ie National Association of laei r Plumbers, the Carnegie instl- ite of Technology, and the Uni- n-slty of Pittsburgh. All of tho 
oetings will be held at tlic Car-nstltutichnolicully.fr thoIS of the I Uonftl Tv&dc Extension Bure Carnegie Tech and Plit Ami ibers will be Lewis Land, educational direcl tlrnr W. Wolfgang, field r itive. National Trade Ext ureau; Dr. C. B. Connell
Robert B. Leighou, Carnegie Institute of Technology; Professor Gerald D. Whitney and ' H. R. Spencer, University of Pittsburgh; (Continued on Page Three.)
The Carnegie Tech Glee Club arded first honorable men- Inter-Collegiate Ulee wos hold in Hall last Frl- 'hich was won b^ Penn State, was to decide the Pennsylvania entrant to the Nation­al Contest which will bo hold In New York. Penn State was aleo awarded a silver cup presented by Pittsburgh Press. This cup hjust be won by a school three manenl possession. 5..= w...c .= Carnegie Tech Glee Club’s first year In Iuter-Colleglato competition,. its showing is very gratifying. Its singing of "Dear Qld Carnegie Tech” received the I theevening. In spite of the inclement weather, and the fact that Lhe Chi­cago Grand Opera was appearlni
April 28 Set as Date 
For R.O.T.C. Review
26 has finally been settled i the date of the R. O. T. C. :ompctltlon. The winning >y will be presented with a 
;iven by the Sojourn Club, ly A, of the Engineering will carry the guide until le of competition. Colonel 11a, Colonel Dunlap andBarrrntest.
egle plaid design and an < jrdcr of gold fringe. There )ui- companies altogether, aglneer and one glgnal. Com won the competition held last
> obtain honor and distinct)« iis guide for the company, inning company will retain this guide for remaining part of tli
before the judges 1
will Lalte his compan
in the social calendar night school of Carnegie TeFebr
i-e-Rian }the Syria pIOBquithoiiBand attended. 11 ’ remarked that Car­negie had the Glee Club that made the'best appearance, and that Ha director. Merrill Hollins- tfiuited lilmself the most creditably." egle Tech had the lion's of the program| Besides taking part In the singing for the implonshlp. one of its students, redlth W. Stump, playing two lln snlbb, accompanied by Wal- J. Poyntz. and Its Glee Club ector. Harvey B. Gaul, leading < combined glee clubs of the con- ting colleges In singing "Prayer Thanksgiving,'' accompanied by al Russell, another student. 
(Continued on Page Two)
DEAN GREEN ATTENDING 
NATIONAL CONFERENCE
Arnold PeiTeton Resigns 
Chairmanship of 
Campus Week
Announcement, has bcon made by the Student Council ot resignation of Arnold Perro from 'the chairmanship oí eighth Campus Week, and the 
polntment of Donald Dattonthechain
amouut of d
Porr
]c*Pof tho
1 hand at this time.Donald Daltoa, the new chair un or Campus Week. Is n Senior Mechanical Engineer. He - Is a t Phi Delta Theta, fromUniversity of Cinclui member of Theta 1 Scabbard and Blade eis Oshkosh,
,u, Dim
TheChaiwill
isisted by tho following assistant halrmen: Donald Putt, Engln-ering; John McNair, Industries, nd William Kunkle. Arts. Tho arlous Sub-committee chairmen uve been appointed for tbo event.
Sidney Forbes; Assistant Treats urer, Murk Seibert; Student Coun­cil Treasurer, G. O. WossdnauT; 
Women’B Events, Elizabeth Lesser; Construction, A. M. Johnson; Pub­licity, Fenton Finn; Campus Wcok Walt RogoiSUo-i Mai:olb;
devili«, Pete Rygg; Social illteo. Jim Terney; SwoopBtakes, Fred Woods; Qualifications, George Pottlcord; Athletic Events, Harry Widom. The cbalrmen of tho fol-wlll
Planning, Electrical, Cot
>ue to an error In tho Tart eral weeks back It wai need that Lloyd Yoder w
lanship. but -pt it The appointmer 
Continued on Page ’
Kilties Givje Annual 
Concert at May view
Last Thursday, Fet
) audlenco composed of
ot E. F. Sullivan. A special jaz 
orchestra, made up of members o the band, furnished the music fo the, dance. This dance is one 0 thu high spots In tbe quiet prc gram of the Institution and the ard with delight
To Lead Important Diflcueiaon 
At Meeting of Beans.
-rival of the .‘‘Kilts.”:ond
Dal\aB. Texas, from February 23 lo 26 iuelusive.Deans of Women from all of the large schools In the United States attend tUla conference and dis­cuss their problems. Last year the association met at Washington, D. 
C.O11 Thursday afternoon, Febru­ary 29, Miss Georgia White of Carlton College, Nortlifleld, Mass., will read a paper 011 “The Dean of Women and the Individual Stu- 
(Contlnued on Fage Three.)
DR.
band was recently forced to schbol, and Carl E. Kumpf, or in the department of Printing and Publishing, was elected as hi6 successor ¦edltli is the student of the band, and -Ills plain:lnde- mimorons small
rounding towns and cities.
hlch Is always looked /ith delight is the. a Indiana Normal. ' I rnial the Kilties at land play together udltorlum of the school. Afti
Di'-. L. McEwan of the Thirdwilt'the
’ fitting, this 
affair took the form of a Washing* birthday dance. Tbe event was pronounced-'a success by all 'ho attended. Tbe dance was.un­der the direction of T. F. Kindle.chairman of the night school social committee.The night schools ' give - three other' affairs during their social season. The first of these was the Thanksgiving dance. Tbe post­holidays dance followed next. The inter-night school dance ie the last event of the year. This will ha giveu some time In May.
speaker at Chapel llile Tliureday, February 24. He Is on© of the prominent Presbyterian ministers in Pittsburgh and is also well parts ot the coun-
On Moi 
21. Mellon 
froiq 8 t
rening, February ill hold a bridge o’clock to wiilch ,11 be invited.- . It has .been the custom of Mel­
lon Hall to give an annual bridge. This year, however, somewhat of a. novelty has been offered in that 
the bridge assumes the-form ol an evening invitational affair and 
not that of a beneAt bridge."': .- \ .
He has Ithe chuiTheupon wblcb be will speak lias s yet been announced, how- an Interesting talk can be expected. The soloist for this oc- Btoii. le Miss Alberta lrblue of e ’music department The or- 
mist will be Mr. \Valter (3enge of e same department.Only eight more chapel exer­cises remain on the schedule. Dr. Baker is doing his utmost to ob­tain the best possible speakers. The .Glee Club will make their ap- jice»at chapel on Thursday. March 3. At the last chapei a de- 
increase in attendance Vas noted. and It is hoped that tlie re­maining exercises will be. attended as well if not better. Effort ‘ being made to obtain' the Kiltie Band and the Girls’ Glee Club in addition to the Glee Club. Chapel
Johu Carr, tho presldont of tho Student Council, left last Wednes­day for Champaign, Illinois, to at­tend tbe Convention ot Student Council Presidents which wue hold at the- University of Illinois, Fob- ruary IT, IS, 19. A. L. Spenser, president of the Student Council of' Purdue University, and Presi­dent of tbe Convention, presided at the meetings which'wero at­tended by dclogates from 39 uni­versities, and- colleges throughout 
tlio United States. Many of the schools represented • sont both n Senior and u Junior mcrabor ol their Student Council, vlillo oth­ers sent two Seniors, Tho dele­gates wore.entortnlnod at the fra­ternities 011 the campus, where
Stresses Value of Science 
In Annual Trustees’ Report 
Published Last Thursday
CALLS ATTENTION TO 
NEED FOR ADDITIONS
eujojtholoclnl
it ot the University ot Illinois Student
CECIL DESCH SC. D. 
WILL LECTURE IN 
CARNEGIE UNION
U10 unnunl Trustoo’s Report published laut wcok. Dr. Baker troOBotl the -danger of "undor- istlinntlng tho value of puro sci­ence in tho study of .engineering." The. onglneer souiotimeu foils to percolvo,” he snyB, "thnt tho nd- ' iment of hie calling dopende
Metallurgist Lectures on 
the Crystallisation of 
Steel Feb. 22
tnllurglcdl wenos of lec- 
belng given this weok by Cocil II. Desch, Sc. D., tho dlroc- of tho Department of Motal* lurgy of ShoITield University, Ung- The first lecture given last night wus on "Tho CryslnlllzQtlou Tho second ot tho eorieD dealbig with "Modern Views on mallon of Motnle’.’ will bo . Wednesday night, and tho third discussing "Diffusion on Solids" on Thursday.Cecil H. Desch is one or Lhe remost authorities on metnllur- ’ and metallography living to­
day. Ho 1ms servod on many gov- nmont coraiulltoeu, and hns beon 
prominent figure on Councils of o British Research Association.Non Ferrous Metals, Cast Iron and Cutlery. Dr. Desch was elect' follow ot tho Iloyftl Society in 1023, and was presldont of tho n 1925. . He liasFaraday Soclet rittenintlfic Journals and has afSo pult- llshed sevcral notable. booku 011 Chemistry and Matallography. .jDr.'Deech-wns »boia.Jtv, London 1 1874. Ho studled at tho Flns- urg Technical College, Universal College. London, and luter at the Wurtzbnrg Unlverslty. He begun 
Contlnuod on Page Turee)
Pack Schenley For 
Greeks Annual Hop
When the opening strains of 
liver Naylor’s Arcadians re- iunded through the Schonloy Ho- 1 ballroom last Friday evening, ur hundred couples bad assem­bled for tho annual InlertFrator- nlty Formal. The affair was a plepeanl and successful
ouples scurrying 
lie dance had gone down I 
(Continued on Page T'
when the lingering the floor,
a dancei the same building and the music ill be furnished by a.Jazz orche^ -a composed of members from le band. Last year many favor- ble reports as to the conduct of le Kilties were received here, everal reports stated that . the snducL of our band had been bct- 
;r than that of any otiier organ- (Continued on Page Two)
Campus Wcok appointments. Tin acceptance of Arnold Perroton' resignation as chairman of (Jam pus Week, and the appolntmcn ot Donald Dalton as his succossoi
brought up and decided up< budget for the Margaret M dance for tipper classmen <
necessitated by mld-scinest iamltles.The Student Council
Dr. James Makes It Possible
To, Detect Bootleg Liquors
The bootleg ludustry has met its Waterloo! The bustness which Ised to displace even. Henry Ford in the Industrial world will become extinct after,April 1, 1027. This has been disclosed by Pro­fessor Joseph H. James of Carne­gie Institute of Technology who admitted that' "aldehol.’’ a new 
denaturanl invented by him, has been officially adopted &e a base of denatured alcohol to make bootleg liquor undrinkable.According to the new.' formula the proportion of wood alcohol is
Unagreeablee would source of the words, Its ta: t the liquor
warning ks ilcohol. In other ells the story tbi bootleg. Its chief virtue. how< that It has 60 far resisted renaturlng effort to take it oi e alcohol of which it has bee part. Aldehol,..which Is non g manufactured exclusively by ay . Rescatc\> Corpoi Nyack, N.'Y., Is the result of.
1 his
inducted
four, and It {s <ictcd¦akc
more difficult than under present conditions, while the use of aide- liol, the new product whl.ch Is made from the oxidation of 1 eene, is included bccause of its unusual uliljly as an eff< denaturanl. • . •,
Dr. James has disclosed that 
aldehoL hu- a. yiolenUy. repuleh odor, and- Uiough not poisonous, i
eral years of : 
by 1the Carnegie' Tech labora lories.. Whether aldehol will solyç- t 
prohibition • problem for the- G.< crnment is moie.or. less depende upon ho^ long;It will be .before 
bootleg plants 'dévòted ing processes ' ;can'. ."di
odor and-sickening effect ot aids hoi or to Uke it out altogethei At least the bootleg denaturing plants-are-expected obstacles in thelr. path of illicit traffic; ''Vx;.;'.:'.-:'.
PRES. BAKER. 
EMPHASIZES 
PRESENT NEED
Report Discusses Moder 
Youth; Finds No Canse 
for Alarm In Trond,
of sclentpurely ob­
struct." Engineering schools, therefore, in his opinion, have n iponslbillty in nttomptihg to ad- uco ospeclally the sclcncos of physics and cbomlstry.He mlds, "It la hard, to draw III® ju botweon a pure science autl ipplied sclonco, but—Lhoro Is both in nn onglnooi’lnp school, mid both should be eu> luragod.”Dr. Baker also points out, in diR- laslng tho rapid and lar-Tonchlns odlficntions tuking plnco In- ilie ild of onglncerlug, that tho "di^- volopmeuta are so rapid that no engineering school can' kooi> of them. Possibly most lccompllshed for progress» by not nttempijng to' be toft pro- ' 'o, but by laying groat em­
phasis upon tho fundnmonta) sc-l-
re|>ort. Dr. Bakor also points out thnt a coilogo oducatloR move'a dlsclpllnai'y. process Chat niethod .of supplying ri. HLook' in ldo for a livelihood. Ho be- ives that education should guard against becoming too progressive. Schools muni not so'ek to ontch' ho spirit of the times, and to fol­low the dictates of a vacillating ibllc. Rather they, should repre­sent ope of tho- great conservative foroou. of;the'^ofld."' •funds-for devoloplng the .work already begun at Carue- . also stressed In DK Dak- - srt. Ho called attention % eccssity of Increasing Iho mt. An agreement -with the Carnegie Corporation of Amer­ica pvovlda that an endowment of given to Carue- 
glc institute of Technology if tbo Institute itself Tuises $4,000,00.0 Juljr i, 1940. Dr. Baker do- 
plored the'necessity of watting 20 years for tho additional funds. Ho called the attention of the board (Continued on Page Four.)
DR. RALPH B0WN WILL 
SPEAK IN UNION MAR. 1
Recent Developments In Radio 
Telephony Is Subjeot.
telephony tho I It possible for Pittsburghers to talk by telephone id business associates In Eu/ope will be delivered at tbe ’•arnegle Institute of Technology 'uesday night, March 1, by Dr. iiilpii Bawn, of the Departhient of .
isatlantic Radio Telephony." angement for the talk wa» by President Thomas S. - through the cooperation of i*rank B. Jewett, -vice presi­dent In charge ot research of dm American Telephone and ' Tele­graph Company, who is also a member of the Trustees’ commlt- Contlnued on Page Three.)
On Wednesday evening, March 9, a Carnegie Y dlnneVwlIl beheld in the Faculty dining - room of ’arnegle Inn. All Hl-Y members ,re eligible and a good dinner be- ;ides a worthwhile speaker will onetjtutc the program.The committee hopes that a large number o|;,Camegie students • 111 .take this opportunity to back the C-Y by attending this dinner. Anyone desiring tick« icure tli'ern at the Y. M. C.Tice or from any member o commute?. Tbe price of thei win V.need 1st
er should stop and see Mr. JDavla t the "Y" office for furtfipr de- ails concerning the dinner.' The est ot- the details- concerning tho inner will appear in a BUbse- uent issue ot the Tartan.The Carnegie "Y~ has sponsored lany worthy dinners for students mr .Campus. The largest din-
held 1; the 1esh-
-Sfenlor Counciloi 
ing the Christmas liolldavs a din­ner was held aud several enter- . 
tainmeuts provided, foe students who were unable to go home oxe1' -

---------------------------------------------------

4010 Fifth. Ave. 
Store is Convenient 
for Students’ 
Supplies
Our branch storp was establish­ed for the-patronage o£ neigh­borhood students and la stocked
I low.prices and expert ;
ed for the-patronage o£ neigh­borhood students and la stocked with' merchandise • requiredin their-6tndles;
We reciprocate 7001 •with low tentfon.
Drawing Materials Architects’ Supplies J Engineers* ¦'Supplies' Artiste’ Materials Technical Bosks . Mlscrescopes
Thermometers
Field Glasses Reading Glasses Still Cameras & Sui
Oxfords—Lorgnettes
x REASONABLE PRICES 
EFFICIENT SERVICE
BtaMitf n*t*-4hst«wys e 
usual fountain penservlceby < 
ing at the Singer Penn and 1 
Shop. Jenkins Arcade. 12 F
N Mayflower 7218
MEN’S. WEAR
FLOYD M. JACOBS
3806J6 FORBES STREET 
Oakland Pittsburgh, Pa
"Around the Corner from 
Forbes Field"
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS |
Oakland 
Savings ¿Trust 
Company
Member Federal 
Reserve System
“The Oakland Bank”
Capital-----$300,000.00
Surplus-----$300,000.00
Deposits Over 
$5,000,000.00
RAINCOATS FOR MEN AND WOMEN
Men’s, $6.00—Color: Grey.
Women’s, $6.50—Colors: Blue, Lilac, Green and red.
AisSiBamaBBer aaad Evans
6100 PENN AVENUE
Stretching Your 'Income
>nly through careful, oystei tic and efficient handling
apital and Surplus $16,000.000.00
MelonNationalBankPittsbugyjh, Pa.
EUROPE
Where do you *vant to go? ftiit—U)ndorr-RoiDC—Veoicef
Çates Toursvlsiu all these place*
GATES
TOURS-225 Fiftb Ave.,N.Y.
Professor Pipe’s popular 
illustrated lecture...
You can leam far more about tobacco 
from old Prof. Pipe, ¿ban you'll get by 
6tudying every treatise ever written on it. 
For Prof. Pipe is the world's most eminent 
authority on the subject. .. He knows 
.tobacco*from plant to pipe!
E-pcrincnts with every known species 
have convinced the Prbf. th4t the . one 
perfect pipe tobacco is Granger Rough 
Cut. . . He points out reasons- for this 
conclusion: (g) the Granger-grade Burley, 
the choicest tobacco grown; VOL the Re-dis­
covery of Wellman’s mellowing method; 
and (c) the Cut of the large slow-burning 
•Pale ps.
Prof. Pipe proves Granger, by practical 
ccmons tration—shows how it acts under 
fire... you never saw tobacco "burn so 
clow, never tasted such cool, mild mellow*- 
nessi The first.pipeful is a liberal education! 
YouTl put your Q. e. d. and capital o. k. on 
G. R. C..- . and all your pipe problems will 
be solved. .. forever!
• f-
GRANGER
Oakln dkS
Oak lnlkd aSvig
Granger Roufli Cut u ft adt fey «lie Liggett .&• Mytn To bacco Conptn.
ALUMNI PAGE
Resume of Buddy 
Overend’s Trip West
Buddy Finds Clans Well 
Organized and Doing 
Good Work
SPEAKS AT MEETINGS
THE LADDER
Mr.1 Aini of ]
:lans west ot Pittsburg! 
:our Buddy bad films ilong with him, as well. >f Information about
graduate of RonabvllleHIgh 'School, Clarloo State Normai, who graduated from the College of En­
gineering at Carnegie Tech in 1914, has recently been appointed 
Englueer of Tests for the Univer­sal Portland Cement •• Company.. 
Before coming lo Carnegie, from 1906 to-1910, Mr. Moore was ca­nning I slstant principal of the Tlonesta ill the High School. Since "graduating 
i this from college. Mr. Moore has been slides j with the Universal Portland Ce­ment Company in tbeir inspection
came from tbe Chicago Office. The Universal Portland Cement Company Is one ol tbe largest ce­ment compuuies in the United States, liaviiig seven laboratories, including a research laboratory; 1925 undei: Mr. Mo<
McCorkle, sident of Addresses u
recoinmeudatlons, and A1 Irwin,
athletics and freshman football ach.who were also guests of tha in. nnd myself. After the diu- ir pictures v.ere sbiowa ot the iropus, buildings aud ¿shops and en the moving pictures of the last Cnmptis Week aud the foot­ball games of tbe past season.
aaer, which was rsity club. Hewy igiueeriug 1911,
(Contlnned From Page One.)
which (
durlDi
; clan bad i
tbe World War.Tbe judges for this compel are as follows: Colouel 1bells, assistant chief o? the staff or the Ninety-ninth divlslou; nel Dunlap, commanding' oUlc the One .Hundred and Sov ;th Field Artillery, and Lie t Barney, of the United Slates Engineers of the Pittsburgh dh
ve this bnuuer a
the Engineers'
eral* days later. 1 .bad the re of meeting with the i Gale Olan, which takes in lies ot San Francisco, Oak-
I’hicl, had arranged ;held.the Stu<Union of the University ot Calif' Quite a number of etudei faculty and the alumni sec attended the meeting, whi called after the dinner n the pictures of the Campus a lOtball games were enjoyed by il. The Gdldi
rranging trips for
Dlan made / pleasant
os Angeles 1 visiteU th i California Clan, wliei dent. G. R Brandin, E'2 de exceptionally pleasin
.at the Chamber of Con 
,-here the clan assemble Ir friends and looked o_v<
also arraigad
(Continued From Page One.) nternity history as the most no 
ble formal of Its kind Carnegli
•al activities, both
Tile April IsBue of the Car- ?> igle Alumnus will be the dl- *> ctory Issue. Tbls will In- * 
•> elude the names 'and ad- *3** dresses of all tbe alumni: •:*
? They will be listed by * schools, and also by classes ?
ider the schools. *>In order to, make the Alum* * is Dlreclo^ for 192T ... as * 
»mplete as possible tbe * Iuami Office would like to * ive your correct address. <• 
you have moved recently •>
:• Help us to make tbls direc- * :• tory as accurate as possible. * Copies will be mulled lo all • • paid-up • members of the • 1 Alumni Federation. Non-pald* • up members may order copies • 
at tbe price of $1.00 each, Advertisements which any *
.MANOR THEATER
Beautiful Corlm 
hold the screen at utcr Wednesday
mlttee of four,-1 Boebel. Georg« 
. Stanley Abbot
The InterVratemlty Formal was laperoned by Mr. nnd Mrs. H. K. (rkpatrlck. Mr. nnd Mrs. Ciar-
STRAND THEATER
Patrons of the Strand Theater ive a very interesting program tead ot them this coming-week arting Wednesday and Thursday, ibruavy 23 and 24 with Marie Prc >st In “For Wives On>.” The
Edith Roberts.
Ben Lyon tbe p tional Star in ‘ taken Mom th« cess “Not Hei
what choice ahi
The Perfect Sap"
CLAN NEWS
SOUTHERN CALIFORNA .
A formal dinner dance wit '‘Buddy’’ Ovcrend as the hono 
guest was held by the Souther CulifQfnia Carnegie Clan on Tue: day evening. February 2.The R flair was hel,d at the Clu Casa Del Mar, Santa Monica) Cal., 
which le'the best appointed beach on the southern collforuia line ,and about thirty-five 
members and friends were Ever>-one was pleased for this opportunity of becoming bet- icqualnled with our graduate ger and tbe concensus olipinloi
high calibe Such n doubtedly :
rack” Mei
s that c la having 1r AimMat
tation wifi 
n a kindlier attitude tov
vas also for tl* Beers of the clai nd tbe following
“Bob” Finkelhoi ••Betty Fibkeltu Knapp
iresidei
Irandli
Scientist * ;Clyde Strict,; Near Fifth Avenu Sunday, 11 A. M. and 8 P. M. Wednesday, 8 P. Ü-Sunday School, 11 A. M.
“Ruddy litUee.t was a Sue party. The food 5 good, the music was good, the r was good nnd the usual- clan >d:felh 'mat¦uld <
be piighty glad
(Continued From Pago 
ation which had been 
le privilege of the grout There will be no trip t iring the Ea6ter vacntioi 
sen tbe custom in the'] revlouB years* tbe ban
Night School Man 
Experiments in Sand
Conducts Research on the 
Sand Problems in 
Foundries
appeared an
Engineering. This article is com 
pounded of “theories and conclu 
slons drawn from a scries of ex
:rlmei
ively,the student manager, lias made an exten- 
the East during theEaster ho 
included slops at New York, Phlla- delpbia, Harrisburg and Montclair, N. J., where concerts were given and not infrequently concerts were broadcasted later in the eve­ning from such radio stations as WEAF and WCAU.
Ineligibility has so greatly re­duced the rAnks of this unique band that only 40 men made the trip last Thursday evening t.o May-Now
who ploj
season and all students caring to 
play are cordially invited to Join tbe Kilties.
Practices are held every Thurs-
nd also have be<
through the e(toi
ou9 cities} During lad the pleasute of
i was given by 
: Industrial Center
sxter, E‘13. Here he showed e great oil city and plans w aOe for b dinner meeting. It 'i
show the pictures here, but .ngements have h'een made nd the films lo Tulsa'at a ¡a itc. ^at which time they exp . have them sho^-n in one of
."My i
the Weetr I find that
: ot ou well <
iversity of Callfot , Stanford Uuiver a, and the South« University of » Angeles.”
icnallyloing good work among the mem­
bers of the claji in> their .various 
'IMS- I that quite a num-: ot tbe members living In these .districts do not know that .we have clans. This Is partly due to tile fact that they are not paid-up members ot. the Alumni. Federa­tion end do 'not receive the Tartan and Carnegid Alumnus, it would be greatly appreciated by the pres­idents of the' clans it living In the districts have clans 'wouljL-keep in touch with them, as I have been ««vlsec bjr.tbe yarifus pjembere .along.my Journey that, they -hare received great benefits through acquaintance with vothe£: Carnegie. .Tech men
REGAL Direct 
Ünivèrsity Service from Coast to Coast
Come in and look over the new Regal line of spedai college models. They are recognized as the standard of style and value from cnajst: to coast.
The Shoe illustrated is the Eli—r&n English Brogue in Genuine Imported Tan ' Heaths Grain. The single hole perforations are a new 
8tyle Feature--al3o in ¦ Black.''
Thè iww “RÈSCO” Fitting
SHOES
several months at an eastern 
ut.*“ Mr. KUey, who is con- 
:ted with the research depart- 
lit of the Brown & Sharpe Man-
R. I., has tor a long time been in-
.ected with the control, con- 
ltion and reclamation of
foundry sand.” As a result, Mr. 
conducted a series of expert- 
s to determine the possibility 
of lesseuiug Uie amount of new 
and which is ordinarily required 
a a foundry to replace that which 
ias beeu rendered ‘’lifeless" by re-' 
ieaicd castings of bot metat. 
The experiments were ba<jed on
perlnient Mr. Kiley selected sand 
which bad been scraped from 
heavy castings, screened through a No. 6 riddle, and after some clay had been added, mulled, for sev­eral moments, then tempered and aerated. This process,- although practical iu a sense, was too ex­pensive, comparatively, to be used consistently. In the second Experiment "heavy , foundry gang- 
iplngs ondlnarlly sched­uled for' disposal on 'the dump" 'were screened through a No. 6, riddle, mulled with clay, tempered, aerated and then mixed with the 'regular sand heaps 111 the foundry. 
With these .two experiments asa beginning, Mr. Klley gradually 
worked out his problem to a fine point. Mr. K^ley is not «Certain as to the .cause .of the increased per­meability with . the addition of 
clay, which his research showed, but he is Inclined to agree, he says, with the theory advanced by R. F. Doty in *a paper which he presented -at. U13. Rochester con­vention of tbe Americau-Foundry- men’a association. '^Jr. Doty 
pointed out that, tbe Increase In permeability was due to theTfact that the contlm caused the sand grains to assume 
rounded shape.. .-To tbe objection >at the groins eventually would row too large, he stated that this tature was taken care of auto­matically.' Each time the sand .as ' prepared for use, - the ’e>tra oatlng or coaUngs of day ¿palled
PLAID CAGERS
WIN TWO GAMESOVER WEEK I
dropping the ball through 1
and gave Carnegie the game, 24 to 23, with 20 seconds left to play.
Amans ond Lynch played the stellar roles for tbe Plaid through­out the encounter. Amans was high point man playing a good all around game, while Lynch beautiful exhibition of suardli
Coach Iri with the ing the tshowing of his mon dur-
after the game, that 1had been
1
î
I
Irtsmanllkeof any game that he b flciated.id ever of
as follow” f°r tUe game is
C. C. N. Y.—23. Car.Tech—24Raskin ............F......... Aman:Rubenstoin __F........ WhiteGoldberg ........C.......HarpsterMeisel ............G........... LynchHitchcockField goals — Amans3, Rubenstein 4, Harsh'2, Whit 2, Hitchcock, Harpster.2, Lynch
r guard.
—Amans," White 2;' Lynch,
:.klbo team; was deprived pf their captain and , who will be 
engagementthem for
this week, and with sent to ' their opponents more formidable offense thi displayed thus far.
proxJmately their- origins! shape
(Continued wan Page one) -Besides singing "Dear Old Car­negie Tech’», with the new arrange- meat by Harvey Gaul, and the prize aong, -“The Lotus Flower,” the Glee Club sang the "Suablan i'olk.
song,.sang “Good night*! by Dudtc Buck, and their college song, ‘-‘The Nlttany Lion.” They were direct­ed by Richard C. Grant, president of the Intercollegiate Musical Clubs of Pennsylvania.The Carnegie Glee Club will sing at chapel on\Thursday, March 8, -at the Fourth U.-P. chwchi
Easter : vacation;
HAVE YOU TRIED OUR
ntltle yoi 
THURSDAY EVENING • 4:30-8:00 P. M.
TRY OUR.35c LUNCH 
Special — Pastries with Fra­ternity letters for occasions.
Sboran’sTeaReom.
3710 FORBES STREET Phone Schenley 9316
Choir.’ Special Music.
LEARN TO DANCE
Jacques School of ' Dancing , ^CRAIG AND FORlES STS. 
Beginners Monday and Fri*day Evenlnga ‘ Advanced, Thursday . '.and. .Saturday Evealngs. Private lessons by appointmentMayflower 7891
Percy’s Compliment
Percy—Oh er! Inst week, theu with more courage —1 had It tailored.She believed him. ~We rented him the tux. - Let us rent you one.
Whittington Dress Suit Co.
4791-R
STANLEY-ROWLAND-CLARK'S
OTRAMP
W'F«b™aVS^.Id“Sda)'
For Wives Only"
sn¿T rutCo mtopyRA 
pCIAyt putINFA
“New York”
MyCR sCMRyF 
tCIutEy IytAoD 
sCMMCur mysoMM
WouFeotReNMA
‘ ‘The WrongMr. Wrigfrl"
The Gorilla Hunt
MANOR
February 2!. and 24
IafnSSk BfnvR¿T 
’Aeo MuEH CF otrCFoL
’mfn"P¿k Chhi ruflTiL 
George Jess el
Saturday. February 2S
“THERE YOU ABE” 
IaSfPd Fdgkv 
odn¿T tabkf¿d
Ben Lyon 
“¦The Perfect Jap”
C|€13EMLEY
^ ««THEATER»»n^z’to'iTp
in Pittsburgh.
Take your Choice
Rich Black and Gold» 
Black-tipped Lacquer-red» or
©re«
e3lach-tipped
Parker DuoicJd is mad£ in. all 5 eiFects 
Those who like Green Jade will agree 
it’s easy to decide which Jade to buy. For 
here, in. the Parker Duofold, this popular 
color is in combination with trim Black 1 
Tips—doubly smart and effective.
And Parker Duofold is the only pen. 
'with the Ink-Tight Duo-Sleeve Cap and 
. Barrel of Non-Breakable Pemianite. The pen with the Point that's piaranteed 25 years, cot only for megfaanical perfection 
but for wear!
So don't confuse Parker Duofold with other pens chac are similar in color only. 
Look for the imprint of master craitsman- skip—“Geo. S. Parker—DUOFOLD"
larker
Duofold
GET YOUR STUDENT TICKETS FREE AT TARTAN OFFICE
WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 23 AND 24
REGINALD DENNYWith GERTrtUDE OLMSTEAD*. OTfS HARLAN, EMILY FITZ­ROY, GERTRUDE ASTOR, In the Irresistible Laughter Film:
“THE CHEERFUL FRAUD”
FRIDAY AND SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 25-’'AWtf 26
CORINNE GRIFFITH
in her Dramatic Love Story, with FRANCIS X. BUSHMAN and EfNAR KANSON Tn
“THE LADY IN ERMINE”
ON THE STAGE ALL WEEK
t Frank Owens and Edith Kelly 
Argentine Orchestra
MONDAY AND TUESDAY,. FEBRUARY 28 AND (MARCH 1
“LOYE ’EM AND LEAVE ’EM”A Hit Among, the Good Pictures with EVELYN BRENT, LAW­RENCE GRAY, LOUISE BROOKS and other Celebrities.
NOVELTY FILMS
PARKKER’S DISTRIBUTORS AND 8ERVICE STATION
Singer Pm and Gift Shop
-FIFTH AVENUE. TKreiiih. to sktrpnrsv
me
Duofold, ,$5. Pencils to maich, $3, $3.50 and $4, ' atarniingasiie. All good '
.XI N2OCIO AIR EÒSA2RTU F2RIHGFYYI, PFBEÒRBFR

---------------------------------------------------

cent Intercollegiate 'toatcta held bx.| 
the' National irifie Association, it 
is tie ’hrst match of Its kind to 
be held by the N. B. A. and the Carnegie team made a very cred­itable showing. ' Tha. first, second, juid^blrd places were captured by teams which have tbe benefit of several years of eaperlence. This 
Is thé first year that tbe Carnegie women bare competed in any In­tercollegiate matches.
Ceorge • Washington1 University took first place - with a score of 
2.991 points out of a possible 3.000, and the University of Missouri 
-Team No. 1 camé second wlih 2,990 points. University of Mary­land. last year's winper. placed third with a score of 2,983 and the 
Carnegie Institute or Technology team cante fourth with 7.975.The hlgb five o
medalsand the 6ame numbei oud and third place warns will re­ceive bronze medals.' Percentage medals will be giveu lo nine of 
Uie Carnegie team, whose scores averages 95 per ^ent or better for ilie three stages of the match.During the last week the team fired against the University of Cincinnati, Ohio Wesleyan, Uni­versity of Montana. The Carnegie 
score was 496 while that of the University of Cincinnati was 497, 
yot Ohio Wesleyan was 463. The 
scores of the University of Dakota, and the University of Montana have not yet been received.The girls who placed In the No­tional match were Ruth Dawson, Jean Roy. ¿Ulce'Brlgbt, Florence Shapiro, Helen Bright, Lucille Ser-
notably-Scobell Hall who defeated Inst year’s champions, the PI 
Kappa Alpha’s. Another victory equally as great, was the defeat of Sigma 'Nu, last year's runner up, by .the Delta Tau Delta's. All the 
games were vigorously contended with the scores much closer than the preceding weeks.
. In the National League, there was played the most Interesting game of the season. ScobeU HaU 
defeated the PI Kappa Alpha's by four points In a rough, bitterly 
fought game. Both teams had ex­cellent team work but Scobell Hall proved to be the superior.' Dona- hoe. Muse, Davis, and Rivet were Sco bell's outstanding sure with Munroe. Bell and llllg doiug their best for Phi Kappa Alpha.' Dona- hoe. Scobell’s best man, was re- oved from the- game in the last 
tarter, with an Injured head. 
Alpha Tau Omega outclassed gma Alpha Epsilon in a slow, one-sided game. The A. T. Q’s.
the first' quarter, mainly through the efforts of Buckley. ... .Woodlawn walloped Acacia In c very one-sided game; Woodlawi 
gained u buge lead In tbe second mposelblt
(Continued from Page One) 
ee on the Carnegie Institute < ‘echnology.The lecturc will be given at 8:5 i tbe Carnegie Unloithe|Ptalk <
The Sigma Nu Fraternity bask­
etball teem has not limited Its 
schedule this year to the .other 
teams in Inter-fraternity leagues 
but has booked a number of out­
lines;- of which two bare 
been played to date. Two weeks 
igo Sigma Nu played the fast 
»aiace Club team of Monongshela 
md defeated them after an Excit­
ing game which ended with a 
20-19 score.
A week ago last Saturday the 
Igxna Mu team met the visiting 
b'e from tbe chapter at Mount 
nion College of Alliance, Ohio; 
i tbe Carnegie Aoor. The game 
as played in th^afternoon with 
good crowd of representatives 
: each group to watch tbe fast. 
Interesting contest. '•It was the 
third game W Carnegie Sigma 
had played this season and 
had little difficulty lu defeat-
for .
Henderson defeated McGill Hall, 
playing. "Snow”, winning the game
In the last minute to play. F Sigma defeated Pbi Sigma I1 (n a rather slow, unlnten
ched but Kappa Sigmi superior by their n work. Phi Sigma Kappa rcame the Delta Mu’s v game. Warner done son ent playing for the' Delta 
i the American League, ta PI defeated Delta Phi Delta 
t rough, f>withHerbst, Sh&ughency, and E tbe outstanding players. With belter team work the Betas 
be difficult to beat. Delta Upi
THE'BASKET BALL TEAM appears to have hit Ita stride at last. Rensselaer was neatly punished on Friday for the defeat administered to Carnegie here last year, arid City College of New York was forced to chalk'up a defeat on Saturday, the first on their hom^flow In four .remain to be played, and •»wTn
Ing their Moi 
'33-19 ecore
i brothers
etch, this rating-^ a field of sen
The gome betw
for I
sed Miller Hall in a ed game. Ranklu ulst played a good Ita Upsilon.
¡copd bestthe defeat of Sigma Nu by .tbe 
Delta Tau Delta's. The game %vos by Dlilley who made five iful shots from tbe middle ol the floor. ' These shol9 were mas •pieces of the basketball art. nottouching thedropped through the basket. Mielzeiner had n chance to get action when Beta Sigma Rho d Doss Hall. It was n closo with Cohen working with ner aud Kilgore starring loss Halli Beta Sigma Rho
sre will be four gomes played A*eek, all/of them on Wetìues night. Both (he Beta Slgmi Rho'Slgma Nu game, aud thi
of the entire league is given a cuj There has been some indecision a to whether thiB cup should be Rermanonl gift or to ijave th
insiderà bte'<iura! season cloi
'icasQjmst KjlM ujou.
^Detroit and fòttrturgh
Dinner Dancing
{Dewey Bergman and his 
Webster Hall Orchestra)
theter that a new cup should i bought, cach year. I( a r tent eup Is bought, it wo neccsuarlly be more costly, c tli.la would throw all the expei «"'^this year’s members to buj ) for future members. There /'much satisfaction In the ^ ig of a cup that in all p: ity will be lost the next yesfraternity or dormitory de posslbli
•obabil- r; and
>rlty t• all
IcGlll Hall (7:30)
to make the trip having taken the hospital, but tbe . _ 5 the second floorAnd the quarantine expired Saturday evening. That’s
ltli his return to the lineup. Carnegie outlook U mighty
AY HURD, captain ot the te?m. was un je of a scarlet fever quarantine, his roomi e the previous week. He was removed city health authorities.refused to allow Hurd
r of thè
THE TEAM faces•ek. Pei; City
.Ions took over the highly touted Ouquesne Un veek. 43 to 15. A comparison of this score with Oil md Carnegie-State games will give a little light <Itte claims.THE WOMEN'S RIFLE TEAM, competlug for themal championship
) the sights of a rifle duri
reck and started t
;eu higher. As It Is, fourth
s If Old Mau Wln-
rsitírthe» women ha'
ments have been completed Í Plebes, and the women's teai
The Varelty swim 
Wooster College.
Ohio, yesterday In a dual meet, 
the second of the season for the Sklbos. Notre Dame defeated ttie Ohioans by a 47-16 scoro, two days before downing' Carnegie 50-12.htch makes the two teams ap­pear about evenly matched.Coach Beukema refused to pre- ct a victory tor the Tartans, but, as confident that bis team would make a creditable showing. . He expected Bob' Follansbee, Carne­gie's only, first place winner In tlie 
Notre Dame ^eet, to throw a scare
Beukema
SPORTS CALENDAR
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 22—
WEONESDAY. FEBRUARY 23—. Basket Ball—Plebes vs. Shadys Basket Ball—Intramural Leagu (Four gain 
THURSDAY. FEBRUARY 24- Basket Ball—Varsity vs. I»enn 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25-Basket Ball—Varsity vs. Grove-
Into the W<In addition to;Coi id manager Mclnnçs, ti) taking the trip, with tbelr
Angus, Von Eude, Follansbee; dive, Horubostel; breast stroke, Stovall. Ellis; back stroke. Durr, Horubostel; 220. Von Ende, An­gus; 50 and 100 free style, fahw tui^bee, Ross.
v SCHEDULE OF? THE VARSITY
•I* RIFLE TEAM
? Vlrglulu M. I.* February 25. .*> Nyssa Rifle Club- March 4.? (N. Y. Aggies)? Lebanon Valley* March 11.? Drexel* March 18.? Delaware*. Nebraska, March
lit. Penn State. Aprli 2.
¦ ^ Matches.Connecticut. ' Agricultur College, February 26."- Hearst Trophy, Februai 15 to April 16.
Engineer Match, Februai 
1 to April 15.* * * * * * * * * * * *
e Varsity Clan, at a 
held In the Clubroom at the gyra 
on Friday, February 11. elected 
officers for (he coming year, and 
discussed methods of reviving 
their former activity. The first 
wlil be the holdlag of more 
frequent meetings.
The‘Officers elected are as fol* 
ws: Président, Win. Finkel, ’13. 
Ill was a football manager while 
; school. First vice president Is 
. V. Beède. ’25. Dykç needs/no
Introducivice proal-
lt. F. C. Brino.basket­
ball star; Secretary, J. N. Frank­
lin, a former hockey mauai 
treasurer, Al Irwlu. ’23; assls graduate manager,of athletics 
Bill Manley’s predecessors a star center; athletic council re seutatlve. J. Purke, *15, playeil football while In sclioo
¦CECUDESCH Sc. D.,WILL LECTURE INCARNEGIE UNION
RIFLE TEAM DEFEATS 
GETTYSBURG COLLEGE
lefeated Gettysburg in their A.* league match, but lost a match to Georgetown, town. committed a teobnlcal
» live pointsalter thau the previous., high core this season, and better than 
he best Individual 9core of any ther' team that, has been fired gainst this season. ThiB ecore is lose to the school record which /as mode last year by Paul Hen-
Broneon placed second with a core of 379. This is a very good core for the'first match he has ver fired in. He has been out for he team only a short Lime, and irobably will, reach higher 'scores vlth more experience.
G. W. Fisher who lias not fired 
luring the Ipst few matches re-
Tlie plebe team Beems¡epllonally good
rsily still more 
only two ot the
tertain as to which win, because of the
Ev^ry Evening (except Sunday) 6 to)8 
' Table d’hote Dinner 
1 $1.50 — No Cover Charge
Phi Slgraa Kappa .Welch Hall !...............
Alpha Sigma Phi.,
Pi Kappa Alpha
Delta Phi Delta.......Phi Kappa ....................Theta XI .............:Ita Upsilon' ...............
' Miller Hall ............Federal League.Beta <Sigma Rho............Boss Hall ...............Delta Tau Delta............Sigma Nu ...............
FOR YOUR CONVENIENCE
THE BARBER SHgP-rmodet" a"d tall, offering service as fine as.any. In Pit« brush and package.Ing soap, Is employed, modern hart barber take
rgh. Eich an Individual ike-form shav--
lods is hei
FIFTH AVE. at DITHRIDGE
INTRAMURAL STANDINGS
National League.
Team . W. L. PcAlph£..Tau Omega...2 0 1.0CScobell Hall 1 0 1.0(Woodlawn Club ....1 1 ,5(Sigma AJpha Epsilon.0 1 .0(PI Kappa Alpha. ....0 l ,0(
[all
Pht.
Henderson E Kappa Sigmi Welch Hall McGill Hall Phi Sigma Kappi Alpha Sigi Delta.. Mu ----
\ Fedei
Delta Tau Delta.. 
Beta Sigma Rho..
Slgûia Nu ..........Boss Hall ..........Sigma Pbl Epsilon
Team .Phi Kappa ........Delta Upsilon ... Beta Theta Pi.... 
Delta-Phl-.'Delta.. Miller Hall 
TBeta-Xl . ......
ivned to tbe
1403,. Gettysbui
md placed iu
the first timo
with Gettysburg c: Qeorgetow:1893; Carnegi
CAMPUS WEEK
(Continued from Page One) 
lei Rogers to lliltf important pi lion was highly recommended by Yoder and the Chairman of C; pu6 Week. Rogers has had great deal of experience In Show production, and is fully capablt ow as evidently
ontlnu4d from Page One) Vllson S'. McDermott, instruc* of Allegheny Vocational School.cording to pre-registration es, th^e - "class" will include plumbing . instructors from all parts of. the country. Up to the nt time more than 40 have ited thoir Intentions to ut- The work of the, course is ed especially for those pre- ; to teach plumbing uppron-
jci are largely those which to be solved In the actual lion of schools for apprentice ourneyman plumbers.
o lectures are being given p. m. Ju the Carnegie Unit -al Bulldlug. No cards ot nd- 
on are required.
MORE CORONAS ARE 
USED IN COLLEGE 
THAN ANY OTHER MAKE 
OF PORTABLE 
Before the daya of Corona >Hege
thlniby hand. Now
Ind Coti typewriterYou*l
last word In portable type­writers. .Standard four-row keyboard, wide ' carriage, twelve yard tHbbon—more big machine features than any other portabio. Price only $60.00. We also have some bargains In used Coro- nae as low aa $26.00. 6TANDARQ TYPEWRITER COMPANY
(Continued from Page One)¡rets of Wild Flowers.’' and th« other on March 22.fcy Arthur Stêr- Coggeshall on Uie "Resulta of .. the Asiatic Expedition* vblch will conclude the lecture program tor
CATERING
Prices Reasonable
Tliat oiu- ' jiefreslment Entertainment is most dc- sirnble for Fraternity and |* nil otlier , School Affnirs, * esporience will oonvinoe.
Smnll orders receive tlie snme careful nttentioa as re estrayagnut
ÒWEI
IvnOO tkd¿PufPS¿
927 SOUTH CR^IG STREET 
Near Forbea 
Try eur Speolal Lunohes—40o Special Rates To Students
BUTLER'S
FOR. BETTER GROCERIES 
414 SOUTH CRAIG STREET Wtf. Deliver All Ordora.J. O. BAKER, Manager Mayflower 7944
We Have Learned That it is 
Better to Use
Kissel Shiles Rent a Car Service
For All Occasions,
THREE STATIONS
8107 Broad Stre
Atlantic 4fl66
mggested for
icceptod the office. His
it already formulating piai Lhe etghtlff Springtime Fesll' Is planned to have all ;b
period for this year inced in an early 1s- . togethe;of those appointed i
Total ....... ....................1S9BDuring tbe week ending Febru- -y 19, tlie varsity fired against Massachusetts Te6h and Dennison University. This wee,k. there. is a league match being fired . against 
team representing Vir- : in the N.
id Staiiiid slttim
i of the Unit- in¿ch. .Tbe iasy defeat of the Naval Academy ras. .np£.. altMQthef'-. unexpected^ Jut : somewhat doubtful.; The Slayal Academy always have ex- :eedingly good teams aa such an istltution naturally Is expected
ceivedCongratulatii)m the manager of the iaval Academy teatzi for the fine icdre that . the Carnegie plebes 
made. This defeat of the Naval Academia freshmen ranks our plebe team aa one of the best In the country.
Eastern * H. S.. Washington. D. 
C..-.was also:defeated in a sitting match.;.. ...^he‘scores were: "c. I. T.. 990 
out of a possible 1000. Naval cmy 980; C. I. T. 492 out of elble 600; Eastern K. S. 476.
Tbe Individual scbres foi
Pron<Sit.^,..99 100
Total6. .NeT.ton ;.
7. Snuerott 8-M^od,W.E..
DR. BAKER DISCUSSES N HIGH POINTS OF DRAMA CONFERENCE IN INTERVIEW
(Continued From Page One);__l-der" In the discussion of . the elaUonahlps>fessl(
ilalizatii
and tlie amat ¡ay that the (He
'elopmeni
theatn 'ofesslon: 
business, has destroyed deal of the art. It Is. the d<
time wlilch is keeping alive the asetlietlc pett of the drama.On the subject “Filth’’ on gitlmate sEage. the topic of ti ly .interest to those aware of the >ot movements in the theatre, 
f intereettLg- coiqoiehte wer^ e. Dr. Baker biames .’the pub; cr the type of sbo^ which Is helng pul lot believe that the theatre be scourged into good behavh by censorship or by laws. Until
vulgarity.>ct the public s
times.
. ¦ Contlnued)Fropi- Page '.One ) 
dent." Following the reading this paper Dean-Green'will, lead the discussion .which wlll\Jas 
half hour.Miss Thyrsa Amos of Pitt,atlendli The Baxter Hotel vlll headquarters of the Asi during Its session. ¦This conference which
the
held
|ye\fany lrInteresting college problems which confront deans during tbelr work art sussed. ' Wayp and means of deal­ing wltb tbese questions are
Camel is the understanding smoke
CAMEL is always die friendly dga* 
tette. In days of tense achieve* 
meat, ¡q -moments of joy and
Unfathomed quality is the disdn* 
guishing mark of Camel.
No matter what the price you
gaiety, a lighted Camel , will spur you can buy no better dga-
you to the sttt# with its cool, f^ttes than Camels* Smoke them 
crisp fire. Camels understand your s ^ frequendy as you please. You
every mood.':
A purchase of Camels brings
will never be left with a dgaretty 
after-taste; Car»«!« aren't. made
you the choicest Turkish and that way* That is why experienced 
Domestic tobaccos. Blended by \ smokers everywhere demand thenu 
ilolful experts mtp the world's That is why millions thnll to three 7. 
nost popular smoke, and th? best; short w&dp: "ffrve 
I. J. BBYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, WINSTON-SALEM. N. C,

---------------------------------------------------

• EDITORIAL BTAFF
Editor-Chief  .....................Merrill'HolllnebeadManaging Editor....................................................... ..............Sam WellNews Editor.....................................Francis KolbAthletic Editor...........................Frederick D. Woods'
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
' Tailmadge Robert M. FewRussell -Bullloger 'Ralph Hitchcock -Harold. Jacobson
A J3. Fleher W. BernardJUNIOR EDITORS Meredlth Stomp - Mllton CohenFentonFinn . ( " Jean Roy
ALÜMNI EDITORS Margaret Rnssell 1 Herbert GranJUNIOR ASSISTANTS 
Florence McLaughlln . Helen ReedJosephlne ClarkJohn Schneider 
REPORTERS 6tewart Ralston Bob Youn(
Cyril Letzelter Ruth Bra
Katharine O'Donnell
Catharine Boj
BUSINESS STAFFBusiness Manager...........................Arnold PènetoaCirculation Manager................................B. SupowltaAdvertising Manager.....................Shelby McMIUIon
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS James Scibert T. R. Zenk R. Noble
CIRCULATION ASSISTANTS 
L. Sachs G. W. Brahmst J. R- Brow
«ÂfftftONfORIvüOVOTf?• cets 2 a voTe •
H. ImdellB. WedmA. Teplltz C. E. Blass G. C. Harbisoi
H. 249 Marshall .M. Malinlck
Editorial Note—The following article is 
contributed b^.a member of Art School, and 
is the first of a series of four essays by stu­dents in as many schools, to be printed in this joiced, had they perceived the 
column during the nest few weeks. These ed- with which it 
itorials will represent attempts at interpret*- Perhaps thi 
lion of our campus life. The contributor next takes the ^French 
week will be a student of Science School.
JCI L'INSPIRATION DEPLOYS SES AILES
Della Kabbitt was not an artist by choicc, but 
by heredity. His mode of working, v 
trcmcly specified and limited.
Another obstacle in free expression 
undue emphasis oh grades, units and hours 
of work. An unfortunate case is that of 
student who made an exceptionally good 
sketch in one hour. Conscious of a . dearth of 
unite, he designated the drawing as a product 
of thi'ce hours’ time. Although the instructors 
were -gratified with the excellence . of the 
work, how much more would they have rc- 
and speed
executed.
perhaps the idealist is not far wrong, if he — ‘ literally. Inspiration
has long been poised in the attitude of flight, 
but until it is released from the meshes of 
P. Q. ’s it can never hope to soor.
M. V. A.
CANDIDE-VOLTAIRE
enough
pessimists as the ¦wise, who like to things clearly
His published w his 'lire time ai Jie -was thrown
i laugh a
»so, pessimists Of all the men who nave sec ) be dissatisfied with them
spoil his digc:om never, made him '
irk was hugo; his Influence during a afterwards bas been, enormous nto the'Bastile twice; had he beeri might i r Jn July. 1769.
i that bothered him. Rouse day with a stupid comment on < wrote "Candide” in order to li ian optimists, and incidentally t i was-ingennous and a fanatic.
what be thought;
.ngered him ’ his poems: >n the Leib-
ioubtedly ope of But It Is only
People who apt to enjoy Wordsworth :
tally entertaining, i are not hypocrites oi them; of couree theihopeleiilly goc 
ixceptions
hlch moves at a galloping pace Wltff- hurry, demonstrated quite adequately " ' of all possible
Rumor has it that the idealist, usually ascrib­
ed to the College of Fine Arts, is despondently 
convalescing from a shock he received not long 
since. He had taken seriously the zealous mot­
to: "Hero inspiration spreads its 'wings,” un­
til - some cruel 'savant pricked his bubble with 
the news that this is a ‘‘technical school where 
students most master skill and precision in a 
score of mechanieal.processes,’' .
He had indulged religiously in temperament­
al flights, and imagined himself quite broad­
ened after taking a course in History of Paint­
ing and Sculpture, when suddenly the admo­
nition that he must not expect liberalizing 
forces in a school where learning is not an jet a 
end in itself, awakened him from his rosy bratii 
dream. , - „¦
The idealist had not been duped into believ- ..gL™ 
ing that the knowledge he accrued was its own 
end, for like .the majority of other students, 
he had enrolled with a career in mipd, and all 
information he attained was obviously .a step 
in preparation. But according to ,his little 
creed concocted by an apostle of enlighten- both
ment, it is impossible to escapc a liberalizing book;
influence in a college where 6uch essentially. ^ b
' aesthetic subjects as Painting, Sculpture,
Drama, Architecture and'Music are offered.
From an obscure tome our hero learned that 
•.liberal culture is the assimilation and compar- 
arig of ideas in such form as to make one wish duller. 'mv,s 
to re-express-them for himself. So he prided This slory 
himself in thc-assurancc that his Fine Ar^s Col- out seeming
lege, with its wide range of studies, would pro- that
vide him with the variety of ideas and the op- 
portunfty for re-expression. rjan
Another fact rhich inflated the idealist's ewer 
bubble'is-the .truism that Creative Ability isthe 
shibboleth of the Arts School. Each student 
aims to contribute something original in his 
particular line, whether it be a Beaux Arte 
problem or a harmony ___• • • bles; leaves El Dorado in order to becomo a mlllii 
One in particular, may be disposed to 
exert a great deal of time and effort modeling a 
figure in clay. Consequently he will be re­
garded with a grade. If the gods be pleased 
his next remuneration is the craving of -some 
•wealthy art champion to have the figure de­
signed for a fountain in his Italian, garden.
And his final recompense, if the sculptor is 
sentimentally inclined, is-the righteous con­
sciousness of having contributed his drop in 
the bucket to purge the world of ugliness.
But rest assured that these future tributes 
are beyond the artist’s‘vision. His myopia consists in seeinc? tho «hieft ' lii> i<s evoatinir him—Schopenhauer would be asked to joiu of comconsists in seeing tnc ©ojecx jig is cicaung and DaiUe> SwiCt MoUere VopQ Nietsche would
as the goal itself. For the proiont, he gives elislble; Shakespeare would not bo incomcitilentire concentration that the figure in clay may nov would Carlyle, or Tennyson; Poe would be there,be the most adequate embodiment of an idea, aud Mark Twain, and Byron; John Stuart M1U wouldTet this worthy attitude is labeled “precision belong by temperament, and so would Matthew Ar->> nolrt; and If Homer really did write a Dunciad, hein mechanical processes. _ would become a member automatically, it wouldTo be sure, the idealist is aware of flaws in be a distinguished gathering, without any doubt, ,'luthis aesthetic institution. Too often creative which Voltaire would do as -much talking as any*
ability is sacriflccd' to tcelinjque. This is, 'of body,
course, a period of training during which the 
vocabulary is enhanced, and the mode .of ex­
pression of ideas becomes more dr less auto­
matic and cut and.dried.
- However, thereiis plenty of testimony i
: In which thirty tlioi glorious Bulga-
eerted by his loi
is; he Is earthquake which accounts for <; is beaten, flayed, robbed,:cuted Itered In Pan where the earth is all t . . mposition. Each where there are po prisons,
seeks a unique interpretation and style of his Wes; leaves El Dorado in ort .__w-k* aire, but becomes a pauper Instead;' .> again, but no until she is withered ind glv<
El Dor
od ugly;
Is narrated witi ony, which hav
cultivating
a delicate, run- not often beeu bookslike this which make Voltaire beloved by all aei ble pessimists—and naturally one has to have ae to b^a pessimist—but it is, as I have said, only
separate works, hut he i
If his spirit atill exiBt 9 a state, let us hope tlceptico-satl:
»ubllshed almost <¦ published i
'tibie!
; If Herr Lelbnirise ijealous emulation ,and found a club of optimists, he would have a long list of moderately distinguished ellglblcs too—but they would not meet inoro than lotley tlii
a much larger heavenly 
ARISTA E. FISHER.
ANNUAL GAMBOLOP THE GUILDSFRIDAY, MARCH 4TH
(Continued From Page One.) dressed op in a manner which will resemble the old Guild .affaire. Complete details of the decoration will be withheld from publication and will constitute a very agroea- -ble element of surprise for those able to attend.M. D. Burnsides who Is in charge sf refreshments, has been In con- sultatlon with many of Pitts­burgh’s foremost chefs and from, the best of each .one's suggestions
hie point,of the. program. Another element in this conncctlon wilt lie' the method of serving the refresh­ments: - a« novel plan has been worked out 1John Dean has been appointed os chairman of programs and J doing his utmost to procure a pro-' gram of' dances which Is Irre­proachable. Phillip Schucld'er Is In charge of the novelty dances -which -are being- arranged as a stimulus to .the regular program.The .object oi the "Gambol of the;.Guilds-'¦ committee this year- is
ive a dance Imbued with the good old Tech spirit throughout The affair ie an all-Carnegie Dance—that Is, every one from' the four schools may attend. Tickets can be procured from any of the following men: A. M. Johnson. Fred Woods. J, U Austmw, M. D. Burnside, Phillip C. Schneider, or
.(Continued From Page One) for- twater cooled boiler furnace walls. . (The Diamond Power Speclalty Corporatlon of Detroit has giv.eu a full size '‘Valve in Head" soot -blower sectlonalized to show the interior construction of the valve and-steam u^zzlee. This modol shows that engineering principles are maffe .use .of in the design of power plant auxiliaries os ,weu at1 In the jnajor .equipment.. The Robinson. Ventilating Com­pany of Zellenople bas furnl3l)jd at considerably less than' shop cost a high speed turbine fan .with ex­tended oase and flexible coupling. This fan Is to be used In connec- -Uon- witli.the .combustion-tunaol
designed, by Professor Trinks and will .also be available for test pur­poses.
It was through 'the efforts of Professor Estep that these dona­
tions to the Mechanical Depart­ment were secured.
PRES. BAKER 
' EMPHASIZESv PRESENT NEEO
present fpr
braty and. reading room.Dr. Baker, • in discussing ques­tions concerned with student life outside the classroom, is emphatic in reporting: that "within our own institution drinking ' has given- us very little coticern, nor do we find th^t the demand by youug people for greater , iudepondence Is a cause for alarm. "We hear," lie adds: -such expressions as' ‘youth In ^revolt.’ but.It seems .to me that young people are as reasonable as they ever were. They demand, nowadays, an. opportunity to state their views, but they are likely to be more idealistic,. more . eagor to 
serve a good, cause than . their- .elder* ... /... .....
FARM RELIEF 
LEGISLATION 
AND CONGRESS
And Now Rolled Stockings Have Gone the Way 
Of All' Fads; Skirts Are Too Short For Them
By .Harold Jacobson.
Rolled stockings-have now gone the way of all fads. . This has vanished because the skirts 
have become so sh*< be considered Injudicious from the 
vleW'polnt of salubrity to continue rolling them. Fads ere served us as examples of the ephemeral flashes which distinguishes the *er changing feminine; andvhlch i‘cblc” has c> deni¡nlth i
Is Inscribed oa the
lemble i) houi
milady's tresses; also the “stays” 
madam’s figure re: glass. And to thei been added the recent fad oC the rolled stocking;
Before the age of rolled st ings. In the gay nineties which 
been lately labled "The Ms Decade," men were supposec have been of the notion that ladies feet wore pinned to their skli Ladles then gave little heed as 
whether their stockings should be if spider-web design, as it -N letticoat hem alone that she .nd. Incldeotly, this Is anotb
Bill at Last ¿Passed] by 
Congress After fcVery 
Lengthy Struggle
TO REMOVE SURPLUS
Congress has at last passed a 
farm relief bill.' For several years 
there has been profuse discussion 
In Congress as to -what, if any­
thing, should be done to help the 
farmer in marketing -bis products 
at prices which would be more 
satisfactory to ’ the agricultural 
classe^. Many measures have been 
discussed In that Urne, but the only 
bill which the farmers seemed to
¦ellef Ii the
McNary-Haugen bill.
The Administration has been 
violently opposed to this bill be­
cause of the fact that it includes 
provisions which aro In the nature 
price-fixing legislation. In spite of 
the opposition of the Administra­
tion and the enumerable substitu­
tes suggested for this bill, Con­
gress has finally passed the origin­
al bill with few changes.
The bill proposes to set up a 
Federal Farm Board which is to 
hffve cliargo of the marketing of 
certain farm products. The bill 
carries a pr6vlsion for a revolving 
fund of $250,000,000 which Is to be 
used In the marketing of these pro­ducts. Tho origin of the bill is due to the fact that farm products are selling at a relatively lower price than other commodities. It bas not been possible to keep the price of the farm products at a higher level by . means of the tariff, be-
'orld price regardless
By irifeans of the McNary-Haugen blit farm prices are to be kept above the world level, and In line with domestic prices on manufac­tured commodities. When the prices of farm products are below the level at whlcfr-ahe Federal Farm Board le to hold them, they are to .be strengthened through the purchase'of sufficient quantities of the products by the board to bring the remainder of the supply down to that polht at which it can be sold in the domestic market at prices which are considered satisfactory.These farm products purchased by the board, which are the' sur-
ever prices they will bring in the world market. The Federal Board Is then to levy on the farmers an equalization fee upon all the pro­ducts handled by them to cover the loss on the quantities sold abroad;
The particular farm products covered by the bill are the so- called 'hassle commodities. The
the cotton gro&irs have not been, particularly enthusiastic about, the measure. The extremely laree cpf- ton crop of this past year, ana the resulting low, price of .cotton un­doubtedly had much to do with the the recect support given the meas­ure by legislators from the. cotton 6Uites. It was only through a com­bination, of the Western and South­ern legislators that the bill was
It Is claimed by Senator Me- Nary that the bill is not price-fix­ing legislation, that it merely re­moves the surplus so tliat the price of agricultural commodities will be higher than the world price by the amount ot the tariff. Of course Senator McNary does not go into it discussion as to whether or 
prlce-fls-'fènluiItwithin the scope of tho present article to criticize the bill at any length, but there are certainly many features about it- whlch are economically unsound: The amount of good that will- come out of It, even- the farmer," U highlv pro­blematical. ' • , -
BARTOW GRTFFISS
Denishawn Dancers
Appear at Mosque
The performance of Miss Ruth 
St, Denis, Ted Shawn and their American ballet at Syria Mosque next Saturday evening, February 26, will be one Of the outstanding events of the season.'The company which opened its American season in Los Angeles In December after an 18 months tour of the Orient, Is delighting audiences with the fol­lowing program which will be pre­sented here to the accompaniment of a small orchestra conducted by .Clifford Vaughn. The program: Part I—&trausslana — A Viennese dance medley.
Scene—A public park in Vienna during' the height of the popularity of th'e composers Strauss. All mu­sic by Johann, Josef and Eduard
Characters— *
> Opere.Ruth St. Deni •s....Ted Shaw )rls Humphre
Captain <
The Ball Her Protector....Edward McLea
Messrs. Weldmnn, Steaves and St. Denis.Waitresses, flower girls, a mana­ger, young ladies and a patronof the cafes........The EnsemblePart II—Music Visualizations. Chouer Dance (Stoherbnchtoli)..----Misses Day. Douglas. GarrettAt the Spring (Liszt)...............
Waltzes (Schjubert)............................................Ruth St. DenisAllegresae (Sindlog).................)Tcd Shawn with Doris Humphphrey and Ensemble.Part III—Gleanings from Buddliti} —Fields.frologue — Invocation to theBuddha.............Ruth St. Denis(1.) Danse -Cainborgienne......
of the fashionable Cads that has joined Its propinquities in the 
necropolis of dead styles.There have been man}’ down through the ages w 
lady went to-the extreme by adopt­ing the small wal: couslHerod, was thi attaining perfect physical beauty. Small waists, it appears,' began with the gods, for Homer telle u 
that Juno put on a girdle when sh drossed herself to charm Juplte into granting'her a favor. Ariel« phanes refers to the wasp wals and Ovid declares that s large walse was in the first rank of his remedies against love; Terei describes the Roman girls as Ing tightly laced by their mothers,
and having theJiihouldei lake them sien 
.dmlred by thi
;d, but after the Rcvolutio 
is reinstated, probably due, a authority has maintained t 
amorphous condition that tb
The Demon (first disguised as a:ourt lody...............Ted Shawe .General..........George Stearee Mouutuin God ...................
.................... George Weldma:endanls of the Lady Sarashl- m—retainers of the General..The Ensemble 
(Clifford(n) WhiteVaughn).......Rulli SL(b) General Wu's Farewell
Howry, Graham.
The ballet is based on a lODg play by Mel Lan Fang, the cele- alcd Çhlnese actor, who perform-
: Court Dancer Ruth SL Deni ord Vaughn.)(b) Isn Purwa.(Shodow Puppet Iaklung and 
d McLean,
. .Doris Humphrey and Ensemble (Music by Clifford Vaughn.)».) India—(a) The Soul of India...............................Ruth St. Denis(b) The Cosmic Dance of
The music for tills dance was Tillen especially for Mr. Shawi
learus from a lady enthusiast ot 
the wasp walet epoch “that to be tightly laced' in a pair of tight- fltUng slays was a most superb, exblllrant and titillating eensatli 
When a lady fainted In .those de the first two steps In resuscitatingictlm¦ laci
drink of spirits.” 
Sad to say.' «*e can do neither theae things in such an exlgei lodoy-^a hasty .abstersii! the. sim, hydr
therapy bas supplanted 
As .to. the question^ whether thi generation, having abolished the corset, will become amorphous is 
something- that is not often ci sldered. Enjoying the freed, that the emancipation of won has given the girls of today. It is
and the last When it was discovered ii middle or-the nineteenth century that corsets could be fastened in, front, gTeat joy woe evinced b 
lady telle tt
her. Ladi 
obstacles chi 
the maximum umoui it takes them to dr utes: which can all by the fact that thei rats to hide; ther lacings of stays;
minutetoday, without rfully proclaim
•oiled.
>r the past 9ix year la India.(c) Jn the BunnJa Bazaar..... ..Ruth St Denis and Ensemble This scene is a composite of all the bazaars from on end o£;Indlailher; Mob! 
Hindus, Punjabi, cooliebeggars, Pathan >f the hills are duced Into the ever changing
Gauthier-Kindler Concert 
Thurs. Evening Feb. 24
by tbe Young Men an brew Association, i ited by Hans Kln< I Eva Gauthier, Y
the Morris Kaufmanu M
I.—Hans Kindler, 'Cellist.Sonate .......................... ValentinAdagio—Allegro—Gavotte.Largo—Allegro.II.—Èva Gauthier, Soprano. "‘Addio Roma" (manuscript)...
.................. Claudio Monlevert"‘Patrli, Numi” (aria from “Mi­tridate Eupatore,’’ manuscript)
.................'Allessando Scarlatt'"Sono in Amore" (aria from "La Finta Semplice”). 5. .Moznr ’oi Sereno” (cavatina niramis")........Glucl
ARTS PLAYS
A REVIEW
FRE6HMA«S,bcN
which the members of the first year class of the Drama Depart­
ment presented lately In the Llt'Ue Theater. la spite of faulty diction 
and Immature technique which are to be expected in beginners, the plebes displayed talents and faults in varying degrees; it will be in­
teresting to watch theid develop­ment in the nest four years.
1 The first play, “The Land of Heart’s Desire" by Yeats, was per' bepo not too happy a selection for freshmen. It 16 a bit too poetical 
in style and too fantastic in sen­timent to be presented to best ad­vantage by beginners. However, the characterizations were well carried out, especially ' those of Mathilda Bodycombe as the Fairy Child and Tressle McCann as Maire Bruin.
“The Danish fable of the Middle Ages, ‘‘King Rene's Daughter," 
boredom bythe i: lifted froi
i of .W. Graham. We could not 
decide whether the weakness c the play • was due to a lack 0 skill and precision In staging 0 to a general lack of talent amoni the cast. To be truthful, we spen 
most of the time admiring Mis
as swept away by the • lality of the third play] “Ai the Border,” It was a drab tinchini
ruetliug, enacted by Helen Ten­
ney, Arne Boesen and Carleton Young with a vitality tjiat seniors “night have viewed profitably. To 
>ur mind. It was the most thor- 'Ugbly sincere piece of work done by the department this year— K. /. P.
Gossec . Ravel Popper
Gavotte .........................beruera ....................Paplllious .....................IV.—Evo Gaulhh 'Elizabethan Love Songa, ar­ranged by Frederick Keel— "Sweet Nymph. Come to Thy Lover’’ (canzonet to twovoices).............Thomas Morlej"Woeful Heart With Grief Op­pressed'- (second book of.ayres) ..............John Dowland“Go to Bed, Sweet Muse”(“Ultlmum Ale”) ...............
Robert Jones"ThereNoi a Swain <1 the™ii¦Hans Kindler.Prelude ("Raindrop”)........Chopinella” .................... PiattiVI.—Eva Gauthier. "iCaddJsch” (melodie ‘Hebra(que)
.......................... Maurice Ravel(Poem Julf No. 1 .Dariue-Mllbaud “'The Fountain” (Rodenbach)......................lvanowlich Taneyef“‘Nevicata” (Ada Negri).......
................. • Attotino RespighiBuckle (Walter de le
.............--.. Arthur Blissde Chopin” (Albert Glr-
"The
“Piei: Luni•e”).. Joseph Marx
One man tells another
