TECH vs. GROVE CITY 
Saturday, October 16 
Tech Athletic Field
VOL. XV. No. 3.1y (larian
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA.
ORCHESTRAS PLAY 
SIMULTANEOUSLY 
Third Football Dance
OCTOBER 13, 1920.
THE MILITARY DEPARTMENT J IT OFFERS
THE MILITARY DEPT.
The military department, which is 
!0\v beginning its third year at this 
Institution, is little understood by the 
students. ^
It is now fully recognized and 
placed on a par with the other divi­
sions of the institution. The stu- 
lents in the R. 0. T. C. are granted 
.he same number of credits towards 
graduation as are granted in the 
jther departments for the same num- 
jer of study and laboratory periods, 
j,e number being 96 for the • 'four 
years.The work in the military depart­
ment substitutes entirely for the work 
ijn physical training. It also substi­
tutes for other subjects in the other 
divisions, depending upon the course 
taken, it offers the students a four 
years’ training in military work, and 
at graduation holds out as an induce­
ment, in addition to his degree, a re­
serve commission in the army of the 
United States so- that in case of a 
future war he will go into the service 
as an officer instead of a private.
In return for liis work the govern­
ment gives to him in clothing and in 
cash the equivalent of over six hun­
dred dollars.There are three units at this insti­
tution: The Engineer Unit, the Sig­
nal Corps Unit, and the Motor 
Transport Unit.The proper selection by the stu­
dent of the unit he desires to enter 
will add to his academic work a most 
valuable experience which will be of 
¡invaluable service to him after 
graduation in the line of his chosen 
profession.The equipment of each unit has 
[been made most complete to carry on 
[all of the work. The work of the 
Military Department begins imme­
diately, and to take advantage of 
[what is figured, the student must en- 
jroll at once.Inquiries concerning the course re­
quire but little time and should be 
[made by everybody without delay. 
It involves no obligation, and the 
course itself involves no financial out- 
t;y on the p'art of thp students.
Last year 450 men enrolled, and it 
is expected that there will be fully 
GOO this year. Those having had pre­
vious military experience will re­
ceive full recognition for such service 
by the Military Department and no 
student can afford to neglect the 
opportunities offered by this depart­
ment.
RATIO CLUB REORGANIZES
The Radio Club of Carnegie Tech 
s again an active organization. A 
short meeting was called for Friday 
fternoon, October 1, and while the 
Tower Clubroom was not overcrowd­
ed, yet enough were present to show 
that all the old members were not 
lost and that there are plenty of new 
men to be taken in.
The club plans to hold a technical 
meeting once a month at which time 
ome prominent radio man will be 
present to deliver a message of par­
ticular interest to all those making a 
study of the radio science. Three 
other weekly meetings will be held 
during the month when questions 
arising among the various members 
ill be discussed in open forum. 
These will be found to be interesting 
and beneficial to all concerned. Also 
at these meetings, the club’s radio 
set will be in operation for those who 
re to listen in.
The radiophone set loaned to the 
c.'ub last year by the Signal Corps is 
now working again and plans are 
well under way for the construction 
of a high power radiophone trans­
mitter and several receivers.
Announcements will be posted for 
the next meeting and it is requested 
that all new men, as well as any 
other old members, be present.
INDUSTRIES SOPHS MEET
Thursday at noon the Industries 
Sophomores held a secret and im­
portant meeting. President Fisher 
occupied the chair and made the 
opening address. The minutes of the 
Blast meeting were read and ap- 
|proved.A lively discussion ensued concern- 
ling the defraying of expenses for the 
¦Soph-Fresh smoker.
Chairman Morris of the Plebe 
Regulations Committee then ad­
dressed the class. He stated that he 
had a number of Plebes’ names who 
stood in need of radical correction. 
Quite a few of the “greener” element 
¡ol our school think they are getting 
away with something. A day of 
judgment was decided upon and there 
is going to be a big surprise for 
¡some Plebes.No other business to be done, 
[motion of adjournment was made and( 
carried.
SENIOR ELECTIONS CLOSE
On Thursday the Senior Class of 
Science met to elect officers for the 
coming year. In all cases the elec­
tions were very close and a motion 
was made to hold a meeting on Fri­
day to elect from the two highest 
candidates for each office. The can­
didates were Brandin and Butts for 
president; Hawkins, Bloom and 
Schmidt for vice president, the lat­
ter two being tied for second; Leet 
and McDade for_ secretary, and Man- 
Lei and Sellers for treasurer.
At the meeting on Friday, Haw- 
kir.jj, McDade, and Mankel were 
elected, but the vote for president 
was a tie. It was decided that the 
three cfficers elected should have 
charge of t}ie classes immediately 
and that a special meeting should be 
held on Monday (the 11th) to settle 
the tie.
Carnegie Tech Eleven Defeat
We^min&er Warriors, 21-0
Plaid Team Shows Great Improvement— Score One Touchdown in the First Quar­ter, Two in the Third—Tartan Offensive Too Strong for Presbyterians.
Wliittmer and McLean Big Stars
(By Fred Knowles, Tartan Sporting Editor)
AT ARTS ASSEMBLY
The new faculty members and the 
Freshmen of the Division of the Arts 
were given a regular welcome into 
the division Wednesday morning at 
the first Arts assembly of the year. 
The little theater Was filled, and the 
old “Design spirit” reigned supreme.
President Hammerschlag spoke a 
few well-put words of welcome, 
dwelling upon the warm fellowship 
nd good teamwork which make up 
the keynote of the success of the 
allied arts.
Director Bossange welcomed his new 
students into the spirit and tradi­
tions of Tech’s artists, and brought 
out his conception of discipline as it 
should be practiced in such a school. 
His well-defined ideas on this sub­
ject summed up to “the maximum 
obtainable amount of benefit and en­
joyment derived through good team­
work and perfect harmony between 
faculty and students.”
The director appealed to the su«- 
lents to “stick” until graduation, 
stating that a fairly good job tempt­
ing a student at the end of about 
two years' study could not be com­
pared with the benefits derived from 
finishing the course in school.
The scholarships awarded for this 
year in the Division of the Arts were 
announced by the director as follows: 
Architecture, Paul Simpson; Drama, 
Russell Collins; Music, Alice Kirk.
Fellowships—Painting and Deco­
ration, Miss Topp; Music, Miss Esliel- 
man; Drama, Mr. McConnell; Spring 
Memorial Fellowship in Architecture, 
Clarence Hunt.
The new faculty members were in­
troduced to the student body, and 
each spoke a few words ah the direc­
tor presented them. The new ap­
pointments in the division are 
follows: Miss Radcliffe, Diction,
Drama; Miss Lawton, Curator and 
Instructor of Harmony, Music; Mr. 
Nebel, Sculpture; Mr. Ashe, Asst. 
Prof. of Illustration, P. & D; Mr. Di 
Nardo, Asst. Prof. of Architecture, 
Arch.: Mr. Ellis, Instructor in Dept, 
cl Applied and Industrial Arts.
The director announced the open 
ing of a new department, the De­
partment of Applied and Industrial 
Arts. The new department covers 
Various art work of the Division of 
the Arts and the Margaret Morrison 
Division. Dean Breed and Director 
Bossange have charge of this depart­
ment together.
The director extended a warm invi­
tation to all students of the division 
to attend the “Dean’s Reception” to 
the students, an annual affair held in 
¡the halls of the school. This year it 
was given on Friday night, Oct. 8th.
The assembly was then turned over 
to Mr. Todd, president of the student 
body. After discussing a few of the 
various student affairs, the meeting 
was adjourned.
Showing an improvement that was 
surprising, Wally Steffens’ eleven 
humbled Westminster College, Satur­
day afternoon on Tech Field to a 21 
to 0 score. The strenuous, prolonged 
practices of the past week has made 
an almost new team for Tech, and By 
Wimberley’s Presbyterians never had 
a chance.
The disconcertness of attack 
caused Tech to go scoreless the first 
quarter, but in the second period with 
the ball on Westminster’s 40-yard 
line, a forward -pass by Godden to 
McClean brought the Plaid warriors
20 yards nearer the goal line. Rob­
ertson tore off five yards at right 
c.-nd and Brumbaugh plunged thru 
the line twice, bringing the ball on 
the 2-yard line. Brumbaugh then 
went thru left tackle for the first 
touchdown. Roger Marshall’s 30- 
yard run and a 15-yard penalty 
placed the ball on Westminster’s 10- 
yaul line in the beginning of the 
third quarter. Brumbaugh hit the 
line for six yards and Red Godden 
scortd the second touchdown. On the 
first play after the kick-off Godden 
intercepted a forward pass on West­
minster’s 43-yard line and from then 
on it was a straight march down the 
field, Godden scoring the touchdown. 
C-y Comfort made good all goals.
The Westminster bunch, altho they 
put up a stiff fight and were not giv­
ing anything away, lacked the nec­
essary punch when it was needed. 
They fought well during the first 
quarter but from then on the Tar­
tan offense was too much for them. 
When they did get hold of the ball,
the Plaid defense tore things up and 
compelled them to punt.
Steffens’ linemen played a won­
derfully consistent game and had the 
backfiekl been as consistent and held 
to the concerted attack that they dis­
played at different moments of the 
game, the score would have been 
more than a three touchdown margin. 
Cy Comfort, besides kicking all goals, 
played havoc with the Westminster 
offense and always opened up the line 
for the Tech backs to plunge thru.
Both Whittmer and McClean held 
down the end positions in fine form 
and left nothing to be expected. In 
covering punts, the Westminster man 
was always downed in hia tracks. 
McClean recovered a fumble after 
Whittmer had ‘.tackled a Westmin- 
s.'er man receiving a punt. McClean 
also completed a forward pass which 
paved the way for Tech’s first touch­
down. Whittmer played his p'art in 
the triple pass, making 20 yards for 
Tech when the final touchdown was 
cn its way, altho never completed on 
account of the game being called.
Brumbaugh and Capt. Godden were 
the ground gainers. Brumbaugh took 
the ball more than any man on the 
team and usually made the neces­
sary number of yards. Red Godden 
made several good end runs.and tore 
thru the line a number of times for 
first down. Robertson showed good 
form, upholding the punting in fine 
fashion and running around the ends. 
Weir man, who replaced Godden in 
the fourth quarter, started off with 
a 20-yard run but he fumbled the 
(Continued on page 3.)
FIRSÏ SCIENCE ASSEMBLY
The first Science assembly of the 
school year was held on Wednesday, 
October (5. Director Mott was the 
first speaker and he clearly outlined 
the relation and duties of his otlice 
towards the students. His short ad- 
dress contained some advice which 
| was particularly valuable to the new 
men. He brought out the fact that 
the figuies of the past few years 
indicate that the participation in 
school activities does not affect a 
man’s scholastic standing, but that 
almost invariably the most active 
students did the best work in the 
classroom. Dean Tarbell also made 
a few important announcements.
A part of the time was devoted to 
the election of a cheer leader. After 
a number of tryouts, “Safety” First 
was elected as cheer leader, William 
Reilly as assistant cheer leader, and 
Jones as Plebe cheer leader.
Secretary Baker has arranged to 
use the Little Theatre in the Build­
ing of Arts every other Wednesday 
for four school assemblies. Promi­
nent speakers and attractive pro­
grams promise to make these assem­
blies interesting. The first of these 
assemblies will be held on October
12, and every one is invited.
DEAN MORRIS ADDRESSES 
INDUSTRIES ASSEMBLY
RIFLE TEAM AT TECH
“If you get it in the neck, be glad 
you are not an ostrich or a giraffe.”— 
Billy Sunday.Men are so contrary that if their 
wives wanted them to stay out late 
they probably wouldn’t do it.
TO TARTAN STAFF APPLICANTS
All persons who have filled applications for staff positions report at the Tartan Office, for assignments and instructions today during office hours. There is still room for a few moic 
men. Drop in and see us.
ROOM 162, DESIGN BLDG.
BUCKEYE STUDENTS MEET AT SMOKER
The Ohio students who did not at­
tend the Buckeye smoker in the 
Union Friday evening missed a great 
treat, for this was one chance for 
the men of presidential calibre to get 
together and know each other. In a 
mixture of smoke and Pittsburgh’s 
fog the early part of the evening 
was spent in renewing old acquaint­
ances and meeting the new men from 
ill I parts of the state, and Ohio is 
pietty well represented at Tech.
The real program started off with 
a crack boxing match between 
“Knockout Berryman” and “Battling 
Morris,” both of 150-pound class. 
Red Cummins, the referee, assured 
the winner of an A in “Geeks” math. 
This put'a little blood in the scrap 
and kept the men on their toes 
¡.liroughout the three rounds, which 
ended in a draw and blasted the 
hopes of both for an A. The feature 
and most amusing stunt of the eve­
ning followed in the form of a 
cracker eating contest between the 
Plebes and Sophs and, as might be 
expected, the Sophs were soon in the 
lead when it came to the consump­
tion of food.
While the smoke was thickest 
Schumaker’s Jazz Orchestra gave a 
few wild numbers. A rush for the 
door seemed to indicate that there 
must be some attraction in the corri­
dor. They were not disappointed 
for the committee was on the job 
with cider and doughnuts in abun­
dance. After the eats L. R. Tircotte, 
a Soph architect, gave a reading, im­
personating a parson, which we know 
was a little out of his line, but he 
handled it in such good shape that 
the chairman had to intercede in 
order to give him a rest.
A short business meeting followed 
with President Seebach in the chair. 
He explained the function and social 
activities of the club and had the 
constitution read for the benefit of 
the new members. Nominations were 
then heard for a treasurer, which was 
left vacant by Sam Shearer who 
graduated last year. t John Schlicter 
was elected and the meeting closed 
after a brief discussion concerning i 
dance to be held later in the quarter.
The committee in charge of the 
smoker is to be commended upon the 
; uccessful program which afforded, a 
good time for all and the Ohio men 
hereafter will need no urging to at­
tend any activities of the club.
The University of' California has, to 
date, a registration for 1920 of 9,44-1 
students—50.3% being men and 49.7 
women. Their enrollment in I he cor­
respondence courses of the university 
numbers 42,000.
loin RECEPTION OPENS 
SOCIAL SEASON IN ARTS
. The new students had a taste of 
what kind of an affair can be given 
and enjoyed when “Arts” all get to­
gether for a celebration, and inci­
dentally, met the faculty members 
socially at the “Dean’s Reception” 
last Friday evening. It is really the 
Director’s Reception now, but the old 
students still persist in clinging to 
the time-honored name for the affair 
which has come to be one of the tra­
ditions of the Division.
'The stunts were furnished by the 
different departments and classes as 
usual, and a varied and interesting 
program resulted. The efforts of the 
Music students, with Mr. I-Ierzberg 
as the bc-wigged music prof. and an 
exceptionally effective young lady 
who played the “Maiden's Prayer” 
in a manner which brought down the 
house, were certainly very creditable.
The Drama Plebes put a good deal 
of time and thought on their, stunt, 
and turned out some very good im­
personations. Miss Thomson’s Indian 
dance was especially interesting.
The Drama Sophs, however, in 
their version of the Samson and De­
lilah story, had the rest of the acts 
literally “backed off the boards.” No 
ore seemed to know who was respon­
sible for the thing itself, but suspi­
cion points to Goodrich and Willard 
as collaborators. Park McClure with 
his inimitable female impersonation 
in the role of Delilah was a scream, 
while the Prolcg, who doubled as the 
barber, Samson, and Count Damfino 
.kept the audience roaring. The 
manicure girl was immense, in more 
ways than one.
The cast follows:
Prologue .. • ¦...................John Willard
Samson .........................Russell Collins
Delilah .........:................Park McClure
Count Damfino . .. .George Goodrich
The Barber ...................John Willard
The Bootblack • •...........George Hoag
Cutex, the Manicure... .Don Colpitts 
The Charioteer .................Ross Hertz
Those who took part in the Plebe 
stunt were the Misses Ripley. North- 
durft, Thomson, Osborne, Ziehle, 
Kaufman, Skurkay, Lowe and Cruik 
shank, and Messrs. Lowe, Lazarus, 
McCarthy, Mullen, Eisenstab, Mud- 
pett; Malloy, McAteer and Tallmon.
Following the stunts, the Plebes 
were introduced to the faculty, and 
then dancing occupied all the time 
not given to eating cakes and drink 
ir.g punch. A prize waltz was held, 
and Carl Ried and Miss Eleanor 
Moran were awarded prizes as the 
best dancers.
The Dean’s Reception is always a 
success, and this event was only the 
first of the series of brilliant affairs 
which will mark this year in Arts.
During the last few years, all but 
a few universities and colleges 
throughout the States have added to 
the list of their activities another 
national sport, that of rifle shooting 
and target practice. Last year the 
realization came that a great per­
centage of the student body was 
composed of ex-service men, and 
among them some of the best rifle­
men from the different branches of 
service. A decision was reached to 
promote the organization of rifle clubs and rifle teams among the larger in­
stitutions, and that towards the last 
part of the college year intercol­
legiate matches should be held. 
Activity men of the larger universi­
ties got together, discussed it, and 
decided to put it into effect. The 
National Rifle Association at Wash­
ington, D. C., was asked to help in 
the organization of the, clubs and 
teams.
By the end of the second college 
month, over eighty per cent of the 
larger institutions reported the for­
mation ofclubs, with a favorable otit­
ic for strong Varsity and Fresh­
man teams. Intercollegiate matches 
were scheduled to commence the first 
week in February and to last for ten 
weeks. Reports from the N. It. A.
the close of entries for the 
matches showed that a large number 
(if other institutions had organized 
teams. Weekly reports of the stand­
ing of the different teams were issued 
and keen interest was aroused as the 
records of these standings would ap­
pear before tin? student body, 
of 9,(148.
Since the opening of Tech and the 
revival of the good old Tech spirit, 
a number of men have gotten to­
gether and decided to organize such 
a club here. In a short time it is 
expected that a number of men can 
get on the rifle range and prepare a 
team for this year's matches.
A number of men have already 
come forward who have shot on 
teams before. They are: J. A. Pray 
and C. M. Walter, who were formerly 
members of the Freshman team at 
the University of Pennsylvania, 
which won the Freshman champion-
hip for 1919-20; J. Byler was a 
member of the team at Tech High 
School in Washington, D. C., in 1913- 
1917 and was Captain of the team 
during the year 1917; H. Torbert, 
also from Washington, D. C., was a 
member of the team at Central High 
School in 1913-1917. Later chief in­
structor over two of the naval 
ranges. J. R. Hanna is a Culver 
man and shot on their team from 
1916 to 1920.
These are a few of a great many 
good shots among the student body. 
It is up to the men who have shot 
before, those who can shoot, and 
those who would like to shoot, to 
come out and help start this sport 
on the campus. No definite place of 
meeting or interview has been ar­
ranged. However, the men whose 
names are on the above list are at 
all times willing to talk it over with 
any one interested. At present, ar­
rangements are being made to ob- 
'ain the use of a range and it is our 
hopes that by the next issue of the 
Tartan that the use of a range may 
be had.
The first of the assemblies held 
by the Division of Industries \v;as 
held last Wednesday, October (5, at 
12:30 p. m. President H. C. Ham- 
man of the Assembly talked for a 
few minutes about the origin of these 
Industries Assemblies by Dean Con- 
neley for better fellowship and co­
operation among the students in that 
Division and how this example had 
been followed by the other Divisions 
of the Institute. Hamman empha­
sized the fact that here everyone, 
each member of all the classes, had 
equal franchise, a Plebe’s vote count­
ing as much as a Senior’s.
Dean Morris was then presented 
to the Assembly and he spoke prin­
cipally to the new students, welcom­
ing them to the Division of Industries 
and congratulating the Upperclass 
men on their return. He emphasized 
the value of the friendships now 
formed and their influence on the fu­
ture lives of the men.
Prof. Leeds, Head of Department 
of Machinery Production, was intro­
duced and spoke about the new 
courses in the Industries Division 
and told the history of Renssalaer, 
where the first courses were offered 
to engineers nearly seventy years 
ago. He followed this with his rem­
iniscences of Tech athletics, when 
Tech could not even get advertising 
space [for football games, whereas 
now we find two local sporting edi­
tors going to the Yale-Tech game at 
New Haven.
“Get Acquainted” was the subject 
of Prof. Dunnels who talked espe­
cially to the Freshmen and which ho 
concluded with a peppy little read­
ing, “On the Jump.”
Prof. Leighon, who spent a part 
of the past summer on an industrial 
survey for the Institute, told inter­
esting facts about the men with 
whom he had interviewed. He spoke 
of the value of those courses to the 
men in the industries and of the pos­
sibilities for those men now in train­
ing. He laid emphasis throughout 
his talk on the sincerity of purpose 
as a factor in work and study.
An election was held for the men 
on the Student Activities Board this 
year because of a tie between Arnold 
and W. I). Hall. This election result­
ed in the election of Arnold, making 
the Student Activities Board R. W. 
Arnold from the Senior (¡lass and 
J. F. Jones-from the Junior (¡lass.
President Fisher of tin* Sophomore 
Class announced that the committee 
on regulations had adopted several 
new rules. These were read by the 
chairman of that committee and In­
clude all the regulations in the hand­
book, with the following additions:
Plebes must carry matches.
Plebes must sit in rear of all As­
semblies and remain seated until 
Upperclass men have passed out.
Plebes must not enter Industries 
through Central Building.
Plebes must not use certain stair­
ways.
Plebes must carry registration 
cards at all times.
The Assembly voted to attend the 
next football practice, Thursday, in 
a body, following a suggestion by 
President Hamman.
C. B. SCHMIDT ELECTED 
PRESIDENT C. I. T. A. A.
At the first General Assembly of 
the year, C. B. Schmidt, Senior Com­
mercial, was elected President of the 
Carnegie Athletic Association. 
Schmidt entered Tech in 1916, reg­
istering in the Division of Industries. 
At the conclusion of that year he 
transferred to Science and became a 
member of the class of ’21. Schmidt 
has been prominent in both athletic 
and non-athletic activities since 
entering Tech.
He excelled especially in track, 
running four years for the Plaid. 
He was captain in ’19 and ’20. His 
non-athletic activities include work 
on the Thistle, Student Activities 
Board and Treasurer of the Athletic 
Association last year, besides serving 
on numerous committees.
As a result of the election, the C. 
A. A. is headed by a man who has 
the interest of the athletics of Car­
negie at heart and will focus all his 
energy to the successful operation 
of that organization.
“GOPHERS”, "SUCKERS”, "WOLVERINES” AND 
"HOOSIERS” ATTENTION.
Plans are being made to form a dub of the student« at the institution from the Lake Michigan region and the Mid-West. Watch for a notice which will be posted on the bulletin boards and appear in an early issue of the Tartan. When the meeting is called turn out and lets hear how you favor such a club.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWO.THE TARTAN.WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1920.
Sip ülartan
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student ActivitieH Board.
Entered in the poatofflce of Pittsburgh a« second-class matter.
Edito/-in-Chief ..................................................................................Lawrence Paquin
Phone Hazel 0422
Business Manager.......................................................*.........................Don A. Siller«
Schenley U211
EDITORIAL STAFFAthletic Editor
Managing Editor 
William D. Hall
Fred L. Knowlea
Assistant..............................S. P.Smith
Assistant Managing EditorSchool Editor«
M. M. D...............................HelenLewis
J. T. AmenBUSINESS STAFFNcwii EditorCirculation Manager
J. K. W. MacalpinoWilliam II. Obenour
The Editor-in-Chicf is rcaponaible for the policy of thin paper; the Man­
aging Editor for the make up.
All business communication« should be sent to the Business Manager. 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported 
at once.
The Tartan welcomes all communication« of student interest, if «igned, 
the signature to be •withheld if desired.
All news items must bo in the student postofiiee, Central Building, before 
4:iiQ P. M. Fridays.
The Tartan Office, Room 152 Arts, will be open as follows:
Wednesday, 3:30-4:30. Thursday 3:30-4:30.
ELECTIONS
SCIENCE JUNIORS 
President
F. I. Smith H. D. Skyrm
W. S. Andrews C. A. Blesch
Mills 
Vice President
UnsickerSawders
R, NationMartelle
II. WadeBryan
Secretary
BylerHenderson
W. J. 'J’hornasBeck
NeaperWhitehead
Treasurer
'1. CollinsJ. T. Ames
ToateaonShumacker
WardBetts
Henderson
SCIENCE SENATE,JUNIOR
CLASS
Senate (Two Years)
CopleyCunningham
H. D. SkyrmBlesch
CuthbertTosteson
JennyCordeman
Senate (One Year)
Stahl manMcGill
Kime• R. Nation
MartelloUnsicker
Jordy
LET’S GET ACQUAINTED
Last year the Tartan advocated a few things which didn’t seem to “pan out” very well, in spite of the fact that almost everybody approached was strongly in favor of the suggestions. We don’t know why they weren’t adopted, but we’re going to be persistent enough to suggest one of them again, namely, the advisability of making a rule that all first-year men on the campus must speak to all other men they meet, and all first-year women to all other women. It is hardly necessary to point out the advan- tage this would be in getting acquainted and fostering a 'better spirit on the campus. In four years we would virtually have every Tech man and woman knowing and speaking to each other. We, personally, are willing to try the stunt ourselves. How many readers think the idea worth try­ing out by speaking to every one they meet? Let’s begin doing it. We 
think it will work.
Senate (One Year)
Byler Greibling
Penske Lind
Karr Plante
Ward Kelly
Weiss
WE GET A RISE OUT OF THE FAIR CO-ED
Sure! Go ahead and “Razz” the female of the species. It will dothem good. It is taking an unfair advantage always to be excused andto have our faults treated as though they were not. It’s a habit with bothsides now. Let’s break the habit/ It will be good for Co-ed spirit here­abouts. There is very little real Co-ed spirit at Tech. You ought to hear some of our dads talk of their college days in Co-ed colleges. It must have been Paradise to have been treated as our mothers were, so consid­erately and yet as though they were not entirely useless. Anyhow, isn’t friendly give-and-take lots of fun? Maybe if we are very, very careful we can put the grain of salt on the tail of the fleeting Co-ed spirit.ONE OF THEM.
STUDENT CALENDAR
October .16—Margaret Morrison Guild Dance—Union.October 10—Football- -Tech vs. Grove City—Tech Field.October 10—Football Danco.October 23—Football—Tech vs. University of Cincinnati—Tech Field.October 23—Football Dance—Union.October 30-—Interclass Truck Meet—Tech Field.October 30—Football Dance—»Union.November 5 -Dorms No. .1 and No. 2 Dance—Union.November 0- Football--Tech vs. Allegheny—Tech Field.Novombor G-Football Dance*—Union.November 13...Football Dance—Union.Novombor 20—Football-—Tech vs. W. & J.—1Tech Field.
OFFICIAL ANNOUNCEMENTS 
EDUCATIONAL COUNCIL ACTIONS
The Educational Council of Cnrnogio Institute of Technology, con­sisting of tho Directors of the various Divisions, the Secretary, Doan of Men, Dean ol! Women, and a representation from tho faculty of the vari­ous Divisions, hold its first mooting for 1020-21 on October 8th. The fol­lowing actions of Interest to tho students wore taken:
Voted to recommend to the President that no classes will be held, day or night, on the date of I,he Presidential election, November 2d, 1020. Students, either men or women, desiring to go home to vote, and requiring more than the one day designated to make the trip, will be permitted to do so provided they secure a p'ormlt at least five days in advance .from the Director of the Division In which they are registered,
On the request of the Graduate Manager of Athletics that members of the football squad be excused from classes at four o'clock, and on mo­tion of Dean Tarbell, tho Council voted to recommend to the President that the Directors of the Divisions concerned are authorized to excuso students engaged in intercollegiate athletics at 3:20 daily during the season involved, provided that the Graduate Manager of Athletics, through the Dean of Men, submit to the Directors a certified list of the members of the squad, and provided also that the scholastic work missed by these men be made up at the convenience and to the satisfaction of tho depart­ment or section in which they are registered.
On request of tho Track Manager that classes be dismissed at 3:30 on October 25th on account of the Fall Inter-Class Track Meet, and on motion of Dean Tarbell, the Council voted to recommend to the President to suspend the schedule in all Divisions at 3:20 on October 25th for the purpose mentioned, on the understanding that every student organization planning to hold an event during the current quarter which would encroach, on the schedule be asked to present its petition to the Dean of Men or the Dean of Women, as may be appropriate, before Octobr 20th, in order that the Council may act on all such requests simultaneously; the same procedure to be followed later for the Winter.and Spring Quarters.The President has approved the above three recommendations.ALAN BRIGHT, Secretary, Educational Council.
DORMITORY ROOMS AVAILABLE
A few double rooms in Dormitory No. 7 are now open. The rent for the remainder of the Fall Quarter is $27.-17 per occupant or $2.84 a week. Application should be made at the Dean of Men’s Office. Dormitory No. 7 is principally for students in the School of Life Insurance Salesmanship, hut in the group that registered for the current quarter a smaller number of men than usual needed dormitory rooms; hence the release of the pres­ent available rooms.A. W. TARBELL, Dean of Men.
PATRONESSES FOR SOCIAL AFFAIRS
For the sake of convenience and uniformity, the matter of arranging for patronesses for social affairs, especially for dances, has been given to tho Dean of Womon. Students who are planning for dances should put in their requests for patronesses at least a week in advance, and if they have names to suggest, the Dean of Women will be glad to know them and 
foil o'w p re f e roncos.
In return lor the kindness and interest of the patronesses, it is desired to show them every courtesy possible to make the evening both comfort­able and pleasant, for them. So it is desirable that each committee should set apart from its funds a sufficient sum to pay for sending taxis to take patronesses to and from the dances, to arrange with the Dean of Women for doing this, and for other details, and in every way to encourage a spirit of hospitality.LAURA W. L. SCALES, Dean of Women.
DEBATING CLUB PROPOSED
At the request of several Students desiring to organize a debating club at the Institute, I am calling a first meeting of all those who may 'be interested, men and women, in the Applied Psychology class-room, second floor, Central Building, at 4:30 Thursday afternoon. October 14th.A. W. TARBELL, Dean of Men.
NOMINATIONS
DESIGN—SENIORS
President ...............................R. E. Dake
Vice President...........- W. J. Perkins
Secretary ......................M. F. Murdock
Treasurer ...............................J. G. Todd
Senator .................. ...R. M. Crosby
Representative Student Activities
Board ...........................R. M. Swertz
IN DUSTRIES—SENIORS
President ........................J. J. Rudisill
Vice President ••..........Wm. P. Hall
Secretary-Treasurer .....R. Man tell 
SCIENCE—SOPHOMORES •
President ..........................J. C. Greene
Vice President.... • - John J. Donnelly
Secretary ......................G. E. Anderson
Treasurer...............T. M. MacDonald
DESIGN—SOPHOMORESPresident-----••------H. S. Watterson
First Vice President...........C. Snyder
Second V. President. .M. Van Winkle
Secretary ....................................E. Duff
Treasurer ...............-•...........H. Moeser
Senator .............................A. S. Vincpnt
DESIGN'—PLEBES
President ...............• •. W. A. Tohlman
First Vice President... .V. F. Malloy 
¡Second Vice President. .M. B. Riplay
Secretary .......................E. M. Osborne
Treasurer .......................D. B. Mudgett
Senator ..............................Jane Church
DESIGN SENATE REPRESENTA­
TIVES
P. & D., L. Stultz and C. Shuman. 
School of Music, E. Stephens, A. 
I-Iertzberg.
Drama, (---------).
Architecture, W. Perkins.
1 ANO 4 ELECT
Two Dormitory elections for offi­
cers were held last Monday night, 
the East Dorm, No. 1, election was 
held in their club room and the South 
Dorm, No. 4, election “down in the 
cellar with the barrels.”
After much animated discussion of 
the constitution and by-laws the 
East Dorm (No. 2) elected the fol­
lowing officers:
President, Paul Marceau; vice 
president, J. K. Elliot; secretary and 
treasurer, II. K. Burr.
The South Dorm (No. 4) elected: 
President, Larry B. ICritcher; vice 
president, Yoder; secretary, II. G. 
Rost; treasurer, Carl Peterson.
The South Dorm men have planned 
several social functions to be held 
this winter, with a smoker for a 
starter in the near future.
TENN S T
PROSPECTS FOR CROSS 
VERY BRIGHT
Capt. Hiller sends out request for 
new men
Your Checks 
CarryTwo Names
—your name and the 
name of your bank. The 
name of a strong bank­
ing institution on his 
or her checks is of value 
to the depositor. Pres­
tige counts.
Capital and Surplus,
$ 11,124,136,20
Mellon National Bank
Pittstu&dh. Pa.
SK1B0 INN
Remodeled and Enlarged
CLEAN,
WHOLESOME,
FOOD 
Served at be^t prices 3
* CIGARS CANDY %% * &*************************
TECHvs rsHÔS7\, PENS REPAIRED ) ii&$1, mq a nrADE
FORBES BUILDING BARBER 8HOP 
John Cicero, Prop.
Facial and Scalp Masage and Children’* 
Hair Cutting Our Speclaltlo«
3617 Forbe« Street, Oakland 
Phone Schenley 9233 Pittsburgh, Pa.
The Fall Tennis Tournament is 
running off in great style; 4!'ii'ere 
are thirty-six entries, with the larg­
est number from the Plebe class, 
while the other classes are about 
equally represented among those not 
honored by being Plebes.
Among the thirty-six are Brosky, 
Ward, Hauser, Mawhinney, and Har­
wood of last year’s famous squad 
and team. 1 say squad because the 
team has picked up their tools and 
departed for other fields. Those 
named above are of known quality, 
md can bo counted on to make a 
gocd showing and fight for tho cup 
to be presented to the winner. •
As one takes a glance over tho list 
f entries one cannot help but being 
¡truck by tho number of names un­
familiar to Tech tennis history. 
These are Plebes, and it is a very 
gratifying sight to see thom anxious 
to try out for the tennis team at 
Tech; for in reality, this tournament 
is, mainly, that the Tennis Coach, 
Tennis Captain, and Manager of this 
year’s team can get an insight on 
their new men, and see how they 
stack up against the old and tried 
men. May some good men show up!
The first round was to have been 
played by Tuesday. If not played 
by that day, match will be forfeited, 
so the tournament will not be held 
up. Reason: cold weather is fast ap­
proaching, and according to all dope 
on the grand old game of tennis, 
when cold weather is present, tennis 
is usually absent. Which is why 
matches not played before that date 
must be forfeited. The finals are 
scheduled to be played on Friday or 
Saturday.
Mention might be made of J. J. 
Iveil and his match against II. C. 
Kreisle. ICeil won to the tune of 
6-0, 6-1. His playing is surely of 
the Varsity type. He has a good 
American straight ‘twist .serve, his 
forehand drives, while somewhat er- 
latic, have the base of developing 
into a very good offensive stroke; 
'he takes the net well, and cuts off 
drives there nicely. About the only 
weakness the writer can see from 
observing him play one set is his 
back hand, which weakness is found 
in practically all players. Iveil 
should play right up to the semi­
finals or even to the finals.
All drawings aro posted in the 
Central Building on the bulletin 
board back of the post-office.
MUSICAL CLUBS BEGIN SEASON 
WITH A BANG
On Sunday afternoon the Carnegie 
Musical Clubs held their first; rehear­
sal with an attendance of nearly one 
hundred men and officially opened up 
the new season with a running start.
The clubs, this year, will be direct­
ed by two very competent and experi­
enced men who will, no doubt, turn 
out as fine a bunch of songsters and 
instrumentalists as have ever repre­
sented Carnegie Tech. These two 
men are Mr. Gregorio Scalzo and Mr. 
Roy Hodgdon.
With five men from last year’s 
cross country team back in school, 
Tech may confidently look forward 
to having a team which will win a 
majority of its meets. Capt. Hiller 
has taken up the work of rounding 
the team into shape and has. his men 
out running over the hills of Schen­
ley Park every afternoon.
Hiller, Greenlaw, Schmidt, Cavett 
and Miller are the old members back, 
all of whom ran in the meet with 
Cornell last fall. In addition, Mc­
Donald and Cooper of last spring’s 
track team are running. McDonald 
: an the two-mile and Cooper the half 
and one-mile and should prove valu­
able men in cross country running.
A very attractive schedule has been 
arranged by Manager McGill and 
every man on the team is sure of
being able to compete in enough
meets to earn his letter. Lehigh will 
send their seven here on the 6th of 
November for the first meet of the 
season. The team will then take a 
trip to Oberlin to meet the Congrega- 
tionalists and will make the Penn 
State trip around Thanksgiving. Ef­
forts are being made to have the 
University of Cincinnati send their
cross country team to Pittsburgh
with tho football team for a meet on 
October 26 just before the football 
game. The Tech runners have also 
been invited to enter an inter-col­
legiate meet by Lehigh at South Beth­
lehem on November 26th. Both of 
those latter meets are still in pros­
pect and nothing definite has been 
arranged to date.
The squad is composed of about 
thirty men, the majority of them be­
ing new at Tech. Several of the new 
men arc showing up well in practice 
and Captain Hiller is watching them 
all closely. There is plenty of room 
and opportunity for any man who has 
done any distance running and an 
urgent request is sent for them to 
come out. Manager McGill is at the 
gym every day at 4:30 and will issue 
equipment to any men reporting to 
him at that time.
M. Nl. GUILD PLANS
ANNUAL DANCE
The Margaret Morrison Guild will 
give their annual dance on Friday, 
October fifteenth, in the Union. The 
Guild, as everyone probably knows, 
is the one charitable organization of 
the school. Each year it gives this 
dance and conducts the Christmas 
Bazaar. The proceeds of these af­
fairs, with the amount paid as mem­
bership fees, is used for contributing 
to different charities throughout the 
city.
This dance will be one of the best 
this year, judging from present evi­
dences. The Tech Jazz Band will 
furnish the music, and you can get 
your tickets for $1.50 from any of 
this committee—Bess Murphy, Mar­
ian McCombs, Dorothy Grant, Lois 
Miller.
Best fountain pens, Eversharp Pen-1 
cils, and repairing. Hallowe’en Goods. I 
Dance Invitations and Programs. Pen­
nants and Pillow Tops. Tech Recog-1; 
nition and Seal Pins. Rings. Frater-j 
nity Jewelry, etc.
SINGER PEN & GIFT SHOP, 
JENKINS ARCADE
¿üiuüiivuiiiiiniiiiitfliiiiiiniiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiu
OAKLAND EXPRESS AND ; 
TRANSFER COMPANY |
Bell Phones 878 & 9169 Schenley 1 
P. & A. 1092-R
227 ATWOOD STREET
i|PITTSBURGH, PA.a
Household Goods Moved, Stored, | 
Packed and Shipped
MDIKllll1l!!illlII!!l!!lllllllil!ll!l!IIISIII!lllll!lillllill!llll!l!l!!l!ll!llill!ll[lll!lll!il!!IJI111]in£ :
HARRY’S
RESTAURANT 
AND LUNCH ROOM
Beil Meals at reasonable prices
3719 Forbe« St. Oakland
* * ¥ ¥ *ATTENTION STUDENTS
Lab. Aprons - - $1.00 
Laundry Bags - $1.85
TECH STATIONERY and MEMORY BOOKS Banners, Pillows, Pennants,
CANDY, SODA, LUNCH, CIGARS
FORBES QUALITYgSHOP
3812 FORBES STREET, COR. BOQUET
THE VERY HEART
Located at the heart of the University District 
Aiming at the heart of the truth 
Appealing to the hearts of folks
OAKLAND METHODIST CHURCH 
Forbes and Boquet Sts.
jTECH CAFETERIA
LANGLEY LABORATORY 
Under Supervision of Varsity Clan 
OUR
EATS AND PRICES
CAN’T BE BEAT 
ENOS KIRKPATRICK, Manager
M. M. 1). SOCIAL NEWS
'The Seniors of the Margaret Mor­
rison Division entertained the new 
girls in the Faculty Parlors last 
Thursday afternoon. Everybody got 
acquainted, “dainty refreshments 
were served” and “a good time was 
had by all.”
Forbes Hall held their first house 
dance on Saturday night—and every­
body had a good time. The house 
was well decorated with autumn 
leaves and much softening’of lights.
Dean Scales and Mrs. Weaver 
chaperoned the affair and Maggio 
furnished the music.
DO YOU DANCE?
iUM AMa PfltVATI 
BANSIN« AIAIIMY
J*******.******************-»************************* ^
IRON CITY ELECTRIC CO. j
Broad and Sheridan Ave, I j 
All Kinds of Batteries ! 
Repaired and Recharged
BATTERY
Exi de”
SERVICE

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1920.THE TARTAN.PAGE THREE.PLAID
Grove City Comes Here Od. 16
To Avenge Pa& Defeats
Having Twelve Letter Men From^Lait Year’s Successful Team, With Line Averaging 195 lbs., the Crimson Crew Expect to get the Tartan Scalp
Jones, 200 pounds, playg^fullback
*The Crimson tribe from Grove City 
comes to play Steffens’ men October 
16 with a veteran team which went 
thru the 1919 season without a de­
feat. They are chock full of confi­
dence and expect to add the Tartan 
scalp to their collection. Tech never 
did give up her scalp without a 
struggle and a well-fought and evenly 
matched battle t may be looked for­
ward to.
Robert E. Thom is coaching the 
Grove* City lads, this being his first 
attempt at piloting a college team. 
He is a graduate of Grove City, where 
he made an excellent record as an 
all-around athlete in his student days. 
He graduated in 1916 and coached at 
Franklin, Pa., the next year. During 
1918 and 1919 he was at Lima, Ohio, 
and was scheduled to be at Erie High 
this year until he received a hurry up 
call from his Alma Mater last month.
The Crimson scrimmagers are a 
heavy lot, averaging 195 lbs. from 
tackle to tackle, with 177 and 165- 
lb. ends. This line is composed of
Ruffner at the left extremity and 
Bohlander at the right. Tallant and 
Young work the tackles, with Rugh 
and Batchelor (last year’s captain) 
holding down the guards. Captain 
Putts plays the snapper position and 
does most of the punting for the team.
In the backfield Thorn wlil prob­
ably have Stepanian or Sellers run 
the team from quarter, with Luke- 
heart and Fredley playing the half 
backs. Two good men are out for 
fullback and it is a question whether 
Jones or Schennler will be used. 
Jones is a big man, tipping the beam 
at 200 lbs. and hits the line hard.
Grove City is very optimistic this 
year with the best team that has. ever 
been put out at the school. They have 
a harder schedule to play than they 
have ever attempted, and are out to 
put the Crimson on the football map. 
With twelve letter men back, their 
prospects look excellent and they 
should give any team they play a 
great battle.
Athletic Comments
WILL CARNEGIE TECH SUPPORT BOXING AND WRESTLING?
Most every college of any size supports a wrestling and boxing team. Will Carnegie Tech ue represented in these two sports this year? There is lots of material on the campus and they can be gotten together and would make a representative team. Schedules can be arranged as several schools last year wanted bouts with us. Boxing and wrestling, although they have been commercialized, are as fascinating and interesting as any other college sports. We ought to have them. Why not?
THE TENNIS CLUB SITUATION BY THE COMMUTEE
OUTCLASS MONESSEN 14-0
Coach Idding greatly pleased 
with, showing of team. Re­
serves strong in aerial attack 
making 8 complete forward 
passes.
The Carnegie Tech Reserves, play­
ing a great game from every point 
of view, easily won from Monessen 
High, at Monessen, Saturday after­
noon, in their initial game of the 
season, by a score of 14—0. Credit 
for the victory could not be given to 
any one man, but to the whole team, 
as a well-balanced, smooth-working 
machine. The score only in a very 
vague manner shows the superiority 
of the Reserves over their high school 
opponents.
The Reserve Team boasts of a 
fairly heavy line, with a fast back­
field, which time and time again, rip­
ped off neat gains through the line, 
or around the ends. In forward pass­
ing they were very successful. Their 
eight successfully completed passes 
compares very favorably with the one 
successfully completed by Monessen. 
In breaking up passes of their oppo­
nents, success was with the Reserves 
also, McPhee intercepting two. Of 
the eight passes executed by Tech, 
five were received by Donahue, one 
by McDonald and two by Bissell. The 
backfield worked hard, and even 
though handicapped by being off with 
signals, presented a magnificent of­
fensive. As Coach Iddings himself 
says, “The offensive was very good, 
even passing my expectations. I 
knew the line would hold up well de­
fensively, but was somewhat afraid 
of their offensive. I was well 
pleased.”
To start the game, Tech kicked off. 
After three plays, Monessen was 
forced to punt. Right here things be­
gan going somewhat bad for the Re­
serves. Three fumbles within our 25- 
yard line made it appear somewhat 
dark, but they braced and thereafter 
were never in danger. This was the 
only time Monessen really threat­
ened. Tech fumbled on her 10-yard 
line, Monessen recovered, with ten 
yards to go for a touchdown. The 
Reserves held. Later in the game, 
McPhee, on a series of line bucks, 
carried th eball over for the Reserves’ 
first touchdown. Smith easily kicked 
goal.
In the second half, third quarter, 
the superior work of the Reserves 
continued. Tech received the kickoff 
and very soon • after McDonald ran 
twenty yards for second touchdown. 
Smith again kicked goal.
During the game, the Tech Re­
serves made eleven first downs, while 
Monessen made only .three.
Mention slfbuld be made of Mc­
Donald and McPhee in the backfield 
for their brilliant work. At the ends, 
Jones and Donley, while light, are 
fast and active.
The lineup:
FRESHMEN MONESSEN
Jones.. • •............. L.E.Berglund..............J..T..............Meassieux
McHenry.............. L.G. ...............Dudas
Griggs..................... C. ............Lévowitz
Williams............... R.G................Myford
Rex- ......................... R.T...................Graff
Donley................... R.E..............................Donahue................... Q............Hannigan
Bissell. . • •........... L.H.............Anderson
Smith...................... R.H..............Schmidt
McCollum................ F............................................... .Vechil
Substitutions: McPhee for Bissell. 
Touchdowns—McDonald, McPhee. 
Goals from touchdowns—Smith 2.
FALL INTER-CLASS 
TRACK MEET OCT. 25
Freshmen Are Urged to 
Participate
All athletes of this year’s Fresh­
man Class are urged to sign up for 
the Fall Inter-Class Track Meet to be 
held October 25 on Tech field. The 
date, October 25, is tentative and will 
definitely be known next week. Men 
from all classes are expected to sign 
up and represent their class.
The purpose of this meet is to get 
some dope on prospective candi­
dates for the track team. It is a kind 
of “dark horse” show, some fellows 
can run and they don’t know it. Coach 
Iddings has charge of track this year, 
and with the undefeated bunch from 
last year, should even surpass last 
year’s record, if such is possible.
All that is necessary is to get into 
training as soon as possible. Report 
to Track Manager McGill in the gym 
any afternoon at 4:30 to get a locker, 
etc. Any man that ever ran for a 
street car has a chance in this meet.
Cards will be posted in the various 
schools with all events listed, each 
person desiring to be entered is re­
quested to write his name opposite 
the event he wishes to participate in.
The meet will consist of the fol­
lowing events: 100, 220, 440-yard
dashes, broad jump, high jump, jave­
lin throw, hammer throw, discus, half 
mile, mile and two mile runs. Much 
work has been don(^ to make the meet 
a success, and it is now up to the 
classes of the different schools to 
show their pep and support this 
school event.
TECH RESERVES PLAY 
BELLEFONTE ACAD. OCT, 13
Indiana Normal secured for 
November 6
Having disposed of Monessen, Coach 
lading is fast grooming his young­
sters for the coming game with Belle- 
fonte Academy, Saturday, Oct. 13, at 
Bellefonte. The team has been given 
a few new formations, and the weak 
spots which were in evidence at Mon­
essen will be materially strengthened 
for the Bellefonte game.
Altho not much has been heard of 
the Academy boys, they can be 
counted upon to give the Tech Re­
serves a hard-fought game.
The lineup will be practically the 
same as last Saturday, with a few 
minor changes.
Indiana Normal has been secured 
for November 6, either at home or 
abroad. November 20 is still open, 
but Manager Martin is in hopes of 
securing some local High School to 
complete the schedule.
University of Cincinnati, who plays 
Tech a football game here on Oc­
tober 23, Has won three games this 
year. They have defeated Kentucky 
Wesleyan 35-0, Kenyon 44-0 and Ohio 
University 6-0.
The white football is becoming a 
familiar thing to the Plaid scrim­
magers again. Even with the lights 
from the gym it is hard to see it 
on account of the shadows. An aux­
iliary set of lights on the other side 
of the field would help out a lot.
Grove City was defeated for the 
first time since 1918 Saturday by W. 
Va. Wesleyan, 7-0.
The new Tennis Club has been the cause of many questions and much discussion in the last few' days, and perhaps, some adverse criticism. The situation is this:
The School spent considerable money in constructing tennis courts which would be a credit to the School. The financial situation of the School at the time the courts were completed was such that very little or no money was available for their upkeep. This, coupled with the lack of student interest in co-operation in the upkeep of any School property, resulted in the upkeep work being suspended.During the summer months, the courts were "going dow’n hill” fast. The club idea was thought of as being the one solution lor saving the ten­nis courts. This worked out very successfully during the summer, after it was clearly understood that the fences were to keep the balls in the courts and to keep trespassers out, and not to be used as a ladder for enter­ing and leaving the courts.
After the summer season was over, it was found that all of the locks had been stolen and the courts had been left in very bad condition by stu­dents who absolutely disregarded the rules of the club by playing on the courts when they were not rolled or lined. The lines were made by means of a sharp stick, which after the first rain, left' a gully where the line had been.The present policy of the Tennis Committee is this:—Pursuing thepolicy adopted in other schools of keeping up the courts by means of anassessment which usually amounts to at least two or three times the $2.00 charged here, and using this money for such equipment as is necessary and the remainder entirely for court upkeep, securing a man from the student body to have charge of the courts ana to see that the equipment is kept in shape; compensation for this work to be determined later. In addition to this, the Committee is looking for enough volunteer work­ers, who are interested in keeping Tech's property in good shape, to report on call from the Supervisor oi Courts to help in general maintenance work.It is the duty of every member to adnere to the rules and by-laws of the Tennis Club and see that all fellow members do likewise. No one is permitted to use the courts who is not a member of the Club, and no one outside of the School is permitted to join the Club.The Committee hopes to have the lull co-operation of the student body in carrying out a successful tennis program, and in order to do this, we must have at least two hundred members for the year. The courtswill be put in shape just as soon as possible and maintained in as goodshape as the finances of the Club will permit.
CARNEGIE TECH ELEVEN 
DEFEATS WESTMINSTER
WARRIORS 21-0
(Continued from page 1.) ball three times when a touchdown 
might have been scored. Anderson 
played a good game while he was In, 
but a cut lip forced him to be re­
placed by Roger Marshall in the 
second quarter. Roger came in the 
limelight once with a 30-yard run, 
something like his brother was ac­customed to pull off.
The attendance was fairly good, 
despite the attraction across tbe val­
ley and- had there been many more, 
the stands would have been over­
flowing. The band marched to the 
field from Central Building and 
entertained with the latest hits be­
tween halves. The snake dance 
showed that the old pep was back, 
but a few mass cheering meetings 
would not hurt much. The details 
of the game:First QuarterTech received • the kickoff, which •rolled out of bounds, and was put 
into play on the 20-yard line. Line 
plays failed to gain any ground, and 
Comfort dropped back to punt. Bar­
rett, the Presbyterians’ quarterback, 
was dropped in his tracks on West­
minster’s 10-yard line.
Westminster started a series of 
line plunges, but failed to gain, and 
they, too, resorted to a punt which 
Robertson returned for 30 yards. 
Again the Westminster line held, but 
before Tech could punt, Rogers, 
Westminster’s right guard, scooped 
up the ball when Tech fumbled. 
Anderson lost five yards when he 
tried to go through the Tech line, 
but stumbled. Gouldstrom was 
thrown for a loss of 5 yards around 
left end, but a short pass, Barrett 
to Fike, gained 5 yards for the Pres­
byterians. With 10 yards to gain, on 
their fourth down, Young punted to 
Tech’s 20-yard line. Tech was pen­
alized 15 yards for holding on the 
next play, and Godden failed to gain 
around left end, with the result that 
Robertson punted. to the 50-yard 
line. Barrett received the punt and 
was stopped in his tracks by Mc- 
Clean.Westminster tried two forward 
passes' and a line plunge, but the 
passes were incomplete and the line 
play failed to gain and Young was 
forced to punt again, this time to 
Tech’s 20-yard line. Robertson re­
turned it for 20 yards. Brumbaugh 
fumbled the ball on the next play, 
but Robertson recovered and the 
quarter ended with the ball on Tech’s 
45-yard line.
Second Quarter
Westminster’s line continued to 
hold at the opening of the second 
quarter and Godden failed to gain off 
left tackle. Brumbaugh went 
through for two yards, but the next 
plunge failed to gain and Robertson 
punted to Barrett, who received on 
Westminster’s 20-yard line. West­
minster then made first down, the 
first to be made during the game, on 
line plunges by Gouldstrom, Ander­
son and Young. Tech then held and 
Young was forced to punt to Robert­
son on Tech’s 40-yard line. At this 
point Rogers replaced Campbell for 
Westminster and Marshall took An­
derson’s place for Tech.
Godden and Young both failed to 
gain through the line, but McClean 
got away for 20 yards on a perfect 
pass from Godden. Brumbaugh 
gained nine yards through left guard 
and Godden made three more off left
tackle. Two more plunges put the 
ball on Westminster’s two-yard line 
and on the next play Brumbaugh 
crashed over for the first touchdown. 
Comfort kicked goal. Score: Tech 7, 
Westminster 0.
Godden received Westminster’s 
kickoff on his 10-yard line and ran 
it back for 50 yards to Westminster’s 
40-yard line. Here Guthrie went in 
for Butler for Westminster. Tech 
foozled the next play with a fumble, 
which was recovered, but Marshall 
was thrown for a loss of two yards 
when he was sent off tackle.
A short pass, Godden to McClean, 
netted 15 yards. Fike was hurt in 
the play and was replaced by Dish- 
man for Westminster. On the next 
play, Poelzle intercepted Godden’s 
forward pass and ran 40 yards to 
Tech’s 20-yard line. Fawcett went in 
for Barret for Westminster. Ander­
son lost two yards around left end 
and a forward pass failed, Tech get­
ting the ball on downs on its 20-yard 
line.
Third Quarter
Fike went back into the game at 
the beginning of the second half and 
Dishman replaced Guthrie. Ecklund 
kicked off to Brumbaugh, who w.as 
downed in his tracks. Line plunges 
by Brumbaugh, Godden and Robertson 
made first down, and Marshall then 
reeled off a pretty run for 23 yards 
off left end, to Tech’s 30-yard line.
Two line plunges netted Tech noth­
ing and then Poelzle was put out of 
the game for slugging and the Pres­
byterians were penalized 15 yards. 
McMillan went in for Poelzle. Line 
plunges gave another first down and 
Godden then went for a touchdown, 
and Comfort kicked goal. Score: 
Tech 14, Westminster 0.
Comfort kicked off to Westminster’s 
30-yard line to Butler, who was 
downed in his tracks. A penalty for 
off-side play and two line plunges 
gave Westminster a first down. 
Gouldstrom failed to gain, and on the 
next play Godden intercepted Gould- 
strom’s pass, which gave the ball to 
Tech on the 50-yard line.
Godden made eight yards on a short 
pass from center on a punt forma­
tion. Marshall gained 15 yards 
around left end. Godden followed 
v/ith five off tackle and McMillan was 
knocked out in the play. McConnell 
took his place. Robertson reeled off 
an end-run for 20 yards. Two line 
plunges made slight gains and Rob­
ertson came through with another run 
for eight yards off right tackle, for 
first down.
Two more line plunges netted eight 
yards and Godden went over for the 
third touchdown of the game on the 
next play. Comfort again kicked 
goal. Score: Tech 21, Westminster 0.
Robertson receiyed Westminster’s 
kickoff on his 15-yard line and ran 
the ball back for 20 yards. Robert­
son gained two yards around left end. 
Westminster then held and forced 
Tech to punt. Barret received and 
fumbled the ball, and McClean drop­
ped on it on Westminster’s 30-yard 
line. A run clear across the field by 
Marshall gained two yards. A for­
ward pass, Godden to Dishman, was 
incomplete. The quarter ended with 
the ball on Westminster's 33-yard 
line.
Fourth Quarter
Campbell replaced McConnell for 
Westminster. Godden gained five 
yards through the left side of the 
line, and Brumbaugh went through 
for five more and first down. Robert-
MURAD
TURKISHCIGARETTE
Mrs. Fox was bragging one day about the large 
number or her cubs.
‘ Howmany cubs do you bring into the world at 
one time?” she asked the LIONESS.
“Only ONE," replied the Lioness—“but it's a 
LION.”
MURADS COST 20 CENTS for a BOX 
of 10 —BUT THEY’RE MURADS!
MURADS would be lower priced if we left out 
all or part of the 100‘; Turkish tobaccos of the purest 
and betf varieties grown—or if we substituted inferior 
grades of Turkish tobacco.
But they wouldn’t be MUR ADS—they’d only be 
Foxes!
“Judge for yourself—!”
Spedili attention is calleii 
to Muratl 20s in Tin Boxts
FRANK BROTHERS
Fifth Avenue Boot Shop
Near Forty-Eighth Street, New York 
Boots, Slippers, Hosiery for Men,
Wome mend Children
PITTSBURGH, Jenkins Arcade
CHICAGOMichigan Blvd.lililí. Corner 
Washington Si.
ST. LOUIS 
A rondo BulldliiK
NEW HAVEN Hotol Taft 
BOSTON 
Llttlo Building 
CLEVELAND Athlotlo Club MidK.
WASHINGTONWoodward Bid«:, opp. Hhorohum Hotol SAN FRANCI8CO 
Whltnoy Building m CUmry Stroot
GET READY
lop the
BIG I /V L, I PARTY 
Oakland Community House
3904 FORBES ST. 
Thursday, October 21
son made five yards off right end. 
McRoberts went in for Orr. Brum­
baugh made four more through the 
line. The next play, a triple pass, 
failed to gain, and Westminster hold 
on the following play, a line plunge, 
and got the ball on downs. Young 
immediately punted out of danger, 
and Robertson received it on his 50- 
yard line. Mere Buohlcr replaced 
Robertson and Griffin went in for 
Sprinkle, for Carnegio Tech.
Godden and Brumbaugh failed to 
gain through the line on tho next 
two plays, and Weirman was put in 
for Godden, whose neck ihad been 
hurt. Weirman took the ball, on a 
punt formation, and ran 20 yards off light end.
Temmel went in for McClean at left 
end for Tech. Tech then made two 
fumbles, which cost them another 
touchdown, for although, on the next 
play, Whittmer, at left end, skirted 
right end for 25 yards on a triple 
pass, Weirman to Temmel to Whitt- 
nier. Tech was held and lost the ball 
on downs. Westminster punted to 
safety to Buehler on Westminster’s 
45-yard line. Brumbaugh and Weir­
man each made four yards through 
the line, and Buehler went through for 
six, but the whistle blew and the 
game ended with the ball on West­
minster’s 30-yard line.
TECH WESTMINSTER
Wittmer...... Left End................Fike
Comfort. •...Left Tackle.......Ecklund
Henderson... Left Guard.... Hancock
Irwin................. Center ...................Orr
Rosenbloom. .Right Guard. .Campbell
Sprinkle... .Right Tackle........Poelzle
McClean.........Right End.............Butler
Anderson.. • ..Left Half. ..Gouldstrom 
Robertson. . Quarterback .... Barrett
Godden...........Right Half. .. Anderson
Brumbaugh... Fullback ..........Young
Substitutions: WeHtminnter—Rog­
er rs for Campbell, Guthrie for Butler, 
Dishman for Fike, Fike for Dishman, 
Dishman for Guthrie, Fawcett for 
Barrett, McRoberts for Orr, McMil­
lan for Poelzle, McConnell for McMil­
lan. Carnegie Tech—Marshall for 
Anderson, Bcuhlor for Robertson, 
Griffin for Sprinkle, Weirman for 
Godden, Temmel for McClean. Touch­
downs—Godden 2, Brumbaugh. Goals 
—Comfort 3. Referee—Holderaess, 
Lehigh. Umpire—Daugherty, Wash­
ington and Jefferson. Lineman— Henry Bluhm.
piiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiin
OCH’S
Forbes and Atwood Streets 
Oakland
SPECIAL 
WINTER WEIGHT 
UNION SUITS 
$2.00 THE SUIT
Good warm flccccd garments 
that sell regularly for $2.50
Black Silk Four-in.Hand Ties 
50c EACH
Black Lisle Silk Socks 
25c and 39c A PAIR
See the Splendid Shirts We Sell 
at $2.00
THEMILOLLAR.
TECH BARBER SHOP 5
NEAREST TO TECH
Cor. Craig and Forbes
FRED FARGEL, Proprietor
Nearest and Beat Laundry 
Agency

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOUR.WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1920.
ARYY DPPHNJO FSPITTSBURGH CEI
FEATURING
I KNOX HATS
because, down to the smallest 
detail, they arc the 
BEST MADE
We also have 
Stetson, Trimble and 
Connctt Hats 
$5 to $20
Jageman & Spickert
6121 Penn Ave. East End
\'i,^Jllfß[^¥(Ve¥e¥e¥e¥t¥iVtVt¥t¥e¥r^e¥tVe¥e¥t¥e¥t‘^ 
TRAN8IT8 AND LEV EL8 
ALL SUPPLIES FOR THE 
DRAFTING ROOM
[Ur
Enolnooro' Equlpmont, Inotru- ( montn of Pcoclolon, Bluo Print , nnd Drown Print Papero and 
Clotho.
B, K. ELLIOTT CO.
120 SIXTH STREET
fX"X--X"X"X”X"X”X"X”X"X--X"X"X"X"X"X"X'X"X--X"X-*'X-
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
DR. HUGH B. SPEER, Pastor 
Shady and Northumberland Avenue« 
Graded Sunday School, HkOO A. M. Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M.and 8:00 P. M.Young People's Service, 7:00 P. M. Brie!’ and Warm-Hearted Messages. A cordial welcome to all.
Grace Church
(Reformed)
BAYARD and DITIIRIDGE STS. 
FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister
SERVICES:Sunday School—1);45 A. M.Morning Worship—11 A. M..Social hour and Luncheon for stu- dent«, 15c, at (5 o’clock.Christian Endeavor—17 P. M. Popular Kvoning Sorvicos at 7:45. Sermon for Hoad and Heart.A cordial welcome to all students.
N -I* -I< *!• *I“I. ?!**!- *1* *1* *1**1* '1**1* 'I* *1* *1* *1* *1* *1* *1* *1*
DE/LLEFIBLD PRESBYTERIAN 
CHURCH 
llnllnflnltl and Fifth Avenue«
Rev, Robert MaoGowan, D. D., 
Minister
ITmiehlnu Horvloo > I and H.Hundny ai’honl lit 10,(’lirlnllim lOndaavtir at 7.
Wo want, tho 'l land onr nervino linow ua an Ihn"Friendly I'aoplo" domo awaits you.
eoli hoys lo i and loam oongroiîytlon A hourly wol-
1.0
* •!* *1* »I* *1* *X* *1* *1* *1* *X* *1* *X* *1* *1* *1« *1« *1* *1* *1* *1* *1* *1* »I* -I-
Meetlng called l.o order at 7:30 p. in. 
In the Flemish Room of the Fulton 
Cafeteria. Forty-live persons were 
present.
Mr. W. II. Norman gave a short 
talk in regard to Ihe Clan and stated 
ho would soon leaves Pittsburgh and 
offered his resignation as secretary- 
treasuror of the Clan. Resignation ac­
cepted, A vote of thanks wan given 
Mr. Norman for Ills splendid work,
,1. W, Batman was unanimously elected 
seerotary-troasurer,
Mr, Overend gave a short talk about 
athletics at Tech and praised the good 
work of Coach Bteffen. Coach Steffen 
gave a most Interesting talk of the 
football team and of1 the showing that 
was made at Yale last Saturday. Me 
spoke of the team In comparison to 
oilier college teams and feels very 
keenly the importance of getting big­
ger men at Tech, Graduate Manager 
I'', II. Manren followed this talk and 
spoke of the athletic policy.
Mr, Casey asked for the Clan mem­
bers to offer some suggestion to help 
the football team. Mr, (j as ton offered 
his assistance In helping football men 
who wore down In scholastic standing. 
Mr. Overend suggested that a card 
Index of at least 2H football men be 
kept by the graduate manager so as 
to keep in touch with the standing of 
the football men. Mr. Norman spoke 
of financial help by way of loans for 
football men and believes It should be 
thought of more seriously, Mr. Casey 
spoke of finances and believes finan­
cial help can be given football men 
from the Chin without Inciting profes­
sionalism.
It was moved and seconded Clan meetings be held first and third Thurs­
day of each month. Motion lost, Next 
meeting to be held as usual, first 
Thursday In November.
Miss McMarlln spoke for the ladies 
and offered their assistance In better; 
Ing athletics at Tech.
Tho Harrisburg Clan report was 
read and very highly praised. The 
question of a State Federation of 
Clans was discussed. Moved and sec­
onded that tho president appoint 
committee to inegt a committee from 
the Harrisburg Clan at the Tech-Le- 
hlgli game to discuss the, question, 
Motion passed, The committee to be 
appointed later. Moved and seconded 
that all Clans bo Invited to a meeting 
at Lehigh.
Vote of thanks was extended to 
Coach Steffen for his fine talk.
Meeting adjourned on motion at 
10:00 p. m.
^llllllllllllllllllllllllllllillllllllllllM
SCIENCE BOARD OF GOV­
ERNORS MEETING
IMPORTANT
The following officers and 
jg Board members are requested 
:i to be present promptly u,t 7:80 
|j o’clock Monday night, October 
0 IK, for the first meeting of the II your.
li. S. Wilson, ’15.
M. L. Orr, ’17.
10. ,S. Ranh, ’ir*.
(!, I/. Tilbrook, M5,
Gaston, ’()!).
.1. Nuttiill, ’li).,1. Doherty, S.
Thor I'lngstrom, M.
F. T. Floyd, MR,
I*!. F. Hlrsch, ’20.
Plunne notify (!. L. Tilbrook 
at »Schenley 2000 in case you are unable lo attend nnd arrange, 
before calling, for a proxy to 
attend in your place.
C. I. T. CLANS.
Baltimore BunchTho following is the list of the members in the Baltimore District. The Tech men in this District should get in touch at once with “Bill” Nor­man, ’17, who has volunteered to act as temporary chairman and secretary of this group. Norman will be able to give you all of the latest Tech dope, as he has been on the Administration here for the last ten months. AnnapolisU. S. Naval Academy 
Baltimore2-10 Allendale St.
938 Whitelock St.
3401 Montebello Drive 
Care Maryland Class Corp., Bromo- 
Seltzer Tower 
Y. M. C. A.
2021 Pennsylvania Ave.
704 McHenry St.
1.011 Hiller ,St.
37 E. North Ave.
ChestertownR. M. P. Kenton, Ass.
Care Electric Light Plant 
Edgewood Arsenal
Leonard Kaplan, Ass.
W. II. Norman, ’17 
?S. I 24 Aronson, ’13 
JI. I*’. Bremmer, '20 
A. W. Crown over, ’II
C. S. Diehl, ’14 
Ephraim Kufl', ’20 
J. W. Pearson.
Jacob Schmidt,
Danley Tilton,
Ass. 
Jr., '13 
Ass.
B. Hudson, ’12
L. L. Sutler, ’Of)
ASCENSION EPISCOPAL CHURCH 
Ellnworth Avcnuo and Novillo Stroot 
DR. WYATT DROWN, Roctor DR. ROSS R. CALVIN, Annlotant
Sunday Sorvlcos, 8:00 A. M„ 11:00 A. M and 8:00 P. M.College Mon’s Biblo Class at 10:00, lod by Dr. Calvin.All Students Gonulnoly Woloomod.
F. 
F, 
.1. ,
Levin'10
II. R. Little, ’15
Lansdowne
Ml. RainierBox 00
A Tech Clan for Washington Men
We have a record of the following Tech men in Washington, D. C., who should get in touch with one another and endeavor to form a Tech Clan, the object being to boost Tech and further the interest of the School ir. your district. Get together at once.
E. Anderson, 1 ’14 
W. Bihlman, I ’15 
M. Carlin, M ’09 
W. H. Glauser, I ’li)
K. Harris, A ’20 
M. L. Johnston, S’16 
Mrs. M. II. Knight, M’09 
F. IL Koerbel, S ’12 
D. G. Marsh, S ’16 
M. E. Northrop, M ’15 
S. F. Pickering, S ’15 
A. M. Pringle, I ’17 
W. II. Searight, S’17 
V. C. Thurston, S ’12 
W. H. Wagner, S ’1.2 
.J. Werner, 1 ’09
121 V St., N. W,
[J. S. Ordnance Dept.
2031 F St., N. W.
1832 Columbia Rd., N. W.
1505 Lamont »St., N. W.
105 Carroll Ave., Takoma Park 
2304 Washington Circle 
Room 29, Adjutant General’s Office 
2i20 G St., N. W.
2650 Wisconsin Ave., N. W.
2814 27th St.
627 Lexington PI., N. E.
1710 M St., N. W.
1731 Columbia 5ftd.
1657 Newton St., N. W.
The Panama Canal
NEW YORK1870
rJl(ost of the famous buildings of the zuorhl 
are equipped with Otis Elevators
The H'OOEH'ORTH TOII'ER — the tallest
office building; the Equitable — the largest; the 
Singer Building—in fact most of the buildings 
that make up the best known sky line in the 
world, are equipped with Otis Elevators.
Few people realize the amount of wealth of 
Manhattan Island that is due to the creation 
and development of modern vertical transporta­
tion by the Otis Elevator Company. New York 
City could not grow wider hemmed in as it 
was by the two rivers and the bay. It had to 
grow skyward.
And now, the Otis Elevators in New York City 
carry daily more than twice the number of pas­
sengers carried by all the traction lines of New 
York—subway, surface, elevated and railroads. 
Nothing short of a book would adequately tell 
the story of Otis in New York alone.
OTIS ELEVATOR COMPANY
Offices in all Principal Cities of the World
ALUMNI BOARD MEETS
The Alumni Federation Board of 
Governors meeting will be held 
Wednesday evening, October 13, at 
7:30 sharp in the alumni ofllce. Every 
member of the board should be on 
hand. Last meeting of the year. Elec­
tion of officers. Plans for the year 
will bo taken up.
The following men and women com­
prise tills board: President, W. W.
Powell, ’13; first vice president, W. 
II. Rifts, ’12; second vice president, 
V. A. Rlgaumont, ’12; third vice pres­
ident, Rachel Beatty, ’18; fourth vice 
president, Ala.11 Bright, ’11; secretary, 
Mary Wight, ’11; treasurer, Helen An­
derson, ’III.
DIRECTORS
Division of the Arts Mrs. J. I. 
Johnston, ’I I; Victor Rlgaumont, '12; 
M. M. Steen, '08.
Division of Industries- W. (’. Piper, 
M I; W. II. Hitts, '12; L. Haas, ’11.
M. M. I). Miss Marlon Burns, MI; 
Mrs. ,1. I*:. Rush, M0; Rachel Beatty, 
'18.
Division of »Science and lilnglneerlng
Alan Bright, Ml; (!. L. Tilbrook, 
Mr.; W. W. Powell. M3.
The following have been elected lo 
fake the place of Miss Marrlon Burns, 
Ml, and W. W. Powell, ’13, who have 
retired from Ihe board: Genevieve
Cushwa, M.M.D., M:'.; ,1. B. »Sprague, 
Science, ’(I!).
ST. PAUL’S CATHEDRAL 
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.
Masons: (1:80, S:00, 9:00, 10:00 and 11:00A. M. on Sundays and Holy Days.
Vespers on Sunday at 7:30 P. M.
Pew 58, Middle Aisle, for Tech Studonta.
OAKLAND 
SAVINGS & TRUST 
COMPANY
Member Federal Reserve System 
Capital - - $200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided 
Profits - - $260,000.90
Deposits, Over - $4,000,000.00 
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
Schenley 0120
NATIONAL RESTAURANT 
H. Warner, Prop.
"Oakland’s Moist Popuar Eating Placo"
114-116-118 Atwood St., Pittsburgh, Pa,
Pay your Alumni dues NOW to get
the Tartan free for the year.
PHILADELPHIA CLAN NOTE
President Mamerschlag expects to 
dine with the Philadelphia Clan at 
their November meeting, possibly 
Thursday or Friday night, the 4tli or 
5th of November. For further infor­
mation get in touch with L. E. Exline, 
president of the Philadelphia Clan, 
f>05 Real Estate Trust Building, Phila­
delphia, Pa. Every Tech man and 
woman in the1 Philadelphia district out 
to meet Ihe president.
The following alumni members vis­
ited the school during the past week: 
Ray S. Dornberg, ’09, 90 Wall Street, 
New York City; Norman C. Hill, S. 
Associate, stopped at school on his 
way to take a new position with Mon­
santo Chemical Works, St.. Louis, Mo.; 
Johnnie Gearhart, ’13, of Tate-Jones, 
Inc., visited the schools.
LOST
Two cuff links of different patterns, 
found in Ihe Cafeteria, have been 
turned in to Dean Tarbell’s oOlce.
Gold wrist watch, with initials A. E. 
T. on back; ribbon bracelet. Reward 
offered if returned to Miss Moore at 
Margaret Morrison Bldg.
LOST AND FOUNDLost,—One set, drawing instruments,, 
one boxwood scale, one Woolley 
Hand Book of Composition. Return to. 
ofllce of Dean of Men.
NOON DIVERSIONS
Amusement is cheap and easy to 
procure on the Tech campus during 
the noon hour. For instance, we have 
airplane performances, dancing in de­
sign exhibition room, or, if one’s tem- 
permament. so rules, we can cast pen­
nies on the design porch or eyes upon 
the opposite sex.
NOTICE TO WAITERS
We have secured the waiting work for banquets at the William Penn Hotel as long as the students are willing to furnish reliable and satisfactory service. The services given by students during tho latter part of the last school year were far from satisfactory to tho hotel management -furniture was broken nnd dessert and other food taken from the serving rooms. The work for this year was given with the distinct understanding that such actions would not be tolerated again. No man once dismissed from the waiting service by the hotel management will be permitted to do further waiting work this year. Kurthermore, this Bureau will deny such men any furth­er help.
Remember that good service is a good reflection upon the 
school, while poor service creates a bad impression of our stu­dent body.
G. L. TILBROOK, In Charge, 
Alumni-Student Placement Bureau.
_ Hiani) Cßlothts
TOR YOUNG ME a AMD MEN WHO STAY YOUNG
Style rules us all
We may pretend indifference 
to style, but after all we feel 
comfortable when our clothes 
are in style, and a trifle self- 
conscious when they are not.
There are seasons of ex­
tremes and seasons of conser­
vative styles. This is the year 
of easy, graceful lines rather 
than the form-fitting, milita­
ristic models of last seas in. 
The waist line is lower—the 
vent is shorter—the coats hang 
freely from the shoulder.
This change is welcomed by 
every college man. He likes 
comfort with his style; and 
another thing — here is a coat 
that will not be noticeably 
passe next year.
You are sure of quality, 
of all-wool fabric and fine 
tailoring — you are confident 
of full value, and you have the 
endorsement of the greatest 
style authority in America 
when you invest in a suit of 
Society Brand Clothes.
WITH THE VARIED GRADES OF CLOTHING FLOODING THE MARKET, LOOK 
Fort THE LABEL AS YOUR GUIDE 
ALFRED DECKER &. COHN, Makers SOCIETY BRAND CLOTHES, Limiied, for Canada
CHICAGO NEW YORIC MONTREAL
QTYLE HEADQUARTERS<0 where jg>oriety Brand (Elothea aresold
BOGGS & BUHL .|
501 Federal Street
GEO. IN/I. WILSON §
225 Filth Ave., Chamber of Commerce Bldg., Wood & Diamond
