Volume 93, Issue 10Carnegie Mellon University’s Student Newspaper Since 19069 November 1998
Stacy Tetzlaff/Tartan Photo Staff Fraternity members fought their way through the competition last Friday night in an attempt to bring home the “Mr. Fraternity” title.Blackout hits campus
By NATHAN STEINWALD
Tartan News Editor
Last Wednesday at approximately 1:45 
pm, the lights went out at Carnegie 
Mellon. The computer network went out 
as well, all a result of a power failure 
that affected the entire campus and parts 
of Oakland.
CMU’s campus power network is fed 
by two parallel power lines from 
Duquesne Light. At approximately 7:30 
am that day, Duquesne Light asked 
CMU to switch from the two feeders to 
one of them, and not to draw power on 
the second so that the company could 
work on it. At 1:45 pm, the line caught 
fire near Fifth and Bellefield Avenues 
as a result of the increased load placed 
on it.
All over campus, lecture halls went 
dark, elevators stopped, and computer 
screens went blank. Many teachers can­
celed classes due to the dark, and some 
people were caught in elevators. .
“It’s my understanding that there were 
six people caught in elevators when the
power went out,” said Marty Ultcha of 
Facilities Management Services (FMS). 
“It took approximately 40 minutes to 
extract them.”
“I was taking books to the dumpster 
when the power went out, so I got stuck 
in the elevator [in Baker Hall] with the 
dolly,” said senior creative writing ma­
jor David Elman. “I hit the phone but­
ton, but it didn’t do anything. I just got 
a busy signal. So I hit another button 
and some message came on about the 
Baker elevator but that was all.” 
Elman was in the elevator for 40 min­
utes before FMS came to remove him.
.“I think my professor realized that I 
was in there and called the police,” said 
Elman. “There was one little light on the 
wall and I tried to read the instructions 
for the phone, but it was hard.”
At 3:40 pm electricity was re-routed to 
CMU by Duquesne Light. “After [the 
electricityl was restored, we then pro­
ceeded to bring the campus back up,” 
said Jim Moros of FMS. “The reason 
[Duquesne Light] was doing this now is 
Please see DARK, page 3
By ENA KHAN
Tartan Managing Editor
' 'Imagine living in a hoüsé with small 
rooms, poor plumbing, torn floors, water 
damage, and structural problems. Now 
imagine paying $110,000 a year to live 
there. That is the current situation of the 
houses on the fraternity quadrangle and 
the hundreds of brothers living in them. 
Since February 1997, the Fraternity Quad 
Planning Group, comprised of represen­
tatives from the fraternities and Housing 
Services, has been meeting to develop a 
plan to improve the living situation for 
students in fraternity housing. After 
months of planning, Housing is in the 
process of hiring an architect to design 
renovations for the worn buildings. The 
construction is tentatively scheduled to 
begin this summer.
“We know the houses are in bad condi­
tion. They are old houses and need to be 
refurbished,” said Timothy Michael, di­
rector of University Housing.
The fraternity houses closest to Forbes 
Avenue were first built in 1958; the rest 
were built in 1967. The older houses 
had their kitchens and bathrooms reno­
vated several years ago. But the houses 
have not been otherwise maintained to 
meet the latest housing codes, said Ben­
jamin Messing, the house manager for 
Pi Kappa Alpha (PiKA) and a junior 
history and policy major. “Technically,
it is not unsafe, but the standards have 
been changed to be more stringent,” 
said Messing.
“Structurally, [PhiKapJis alright. We 
have a bad water system. The electrical 
system is not safe, which is one of the 
things that is pushing the renovations. 
It’s a safety issue,” said Peder Andersen, 
the house manager for Phi Kappa Theta 
(PhiKap) and a junior ECE and CS 
double major.
An audit by AME, an external con­
tractor hired by the University last 
spring, evaluated the current condition 
of the fraternity houses, according to 
Michael. Each house was given a com­
plete appraisal and estimated costs to 
fix existing damages. For PiKA and 
Delta Tau Delta (DTD), who share an 
oider duplex, the estimated costs for 
the needed renovations are near $1 
Please see QUAD, page 3
The buildings in the fraternity quad will receive repairs over the coming years.
Inside
....................9
...................L5
Diversions......................................................L9
Living..........................................................LI
....................4
Sports..................:.........................................10
http://tartan.web.cmu.edu/
Forum
We have advisors? 
• see page 4
Diversions
Tour the music scene 
• see page L9
THE TARTAN
Features
Home away from home 
• see page LI
James Mojonnier/Tartan Art Editor
OLR changes raise questions
Carnegie Mellon joins national digital information consortium
By ISH HARSHAWAT
Tartan Assistant News Editor
Carnegie Mellon recently made 
a leap forward in the field of digi­
tized information by joining the 
Digital Library Federation (DLF), 
a consortium of universities fo­
cused on increasing the use of 
electronic materials available to 
the public. CMU will contribute 
its resources in Computer Sci­
ence in order to propose a plan for 
a standardized way to archive 
decaying books and other impor­
tant documents.
The Federation was started in 
1995 by a group of 12 universities 
and several government institu­
tions, including the Library of 
Congress. The addition of Carn­
egie Mellon brings the total num­
ber of institutions in the Federa­
tion to 24. Dr. Gloriana St. Clair, 
the head University Librarian, 
cited examples of notable elec­
tronic collections already avail­
able online. These include Cornell 
University’s online publication of 
almost 600 old math texts and 
Pennsylvania State’s 400,000 
pages of agricultural reports. In 
addition, she said a group of uni­
versities is currently working on 
a project entitled “The Making of 
America,” a collection of digital 
primary sources pertaining to 
transportation and communica­
tion in the United States during 
the 19th century.
Carnegie Mellon applied and 
was accepted as a member of the 
Federation last June. St. Clair 
said the reason CMU was ac­
cepted into the DLF was because 
the University already had taken 
steps to digitize materials 
through a variety of projects.
One such project is the Univer­
sal Library, which currently 
boasts 8,000 digitized materials. 
“The Universal library is a long­
term effort to digitize all recorded 
information and make it avail­
able over the Internet through a 
single interface,” said Dr. Michael 
Shamos, the project’s operations 
director and principle systems 
scientist in the Language Tech­
nologies Institute. Shamos said 
that currently users on the 
Internet that wish to find specific 
information must use a search 
engine such as Lycos or AltaVista. 
After that, the user must access 
different sites, which may in turn 
have search engines. “The Uni­
versal Library eliminates this 
middle layer. It allows [users] to 
get information from one place,” 
he said. The steering committee 
of the Universal Library consists 
of several members, including Raj 
Reddy, dean of Computer Science. 
The committee meets every week 
in order determine how to ex­
pand the Library.
Another project is Informedia, 
a CS initiative designed to pro­
vide multimedia content online, 
including digital video and au­
dio. St. Clair also said that two 
weeks ago a council from the DLF 
came to the University to look at 
the Heinz Electronic Library In­
teractive Online System 
(HELIOS). HELIOS is a project 
that provides access to over 
500,000 pages of the late U.S. 
Senator John Heinz’s congres­
sional papers electronically. The 
project has pioneered ways in 
archiving documents digitally 
and allows for extensive search 
and browse capabilities. The 
council will write a case study 
and present it at a DLF confer­
ence in the spring.
St. Clair said that CMU has a 
lot to contribute to the DLF be­
cause of its experience in com­
puter science, and she believes 
CMU will be the institution that 
proposes a standardized way of 
archiving documents digitally.
As a member of the DLF, CMU 
will pay $19,000 a year in annual 
dues and contribute $5,000 to a
capital contribution fund. The 
directors from all the institutions 
get together two or three times a 
year to share practices and meth­
ods in digitizing electronic docu­
ments. The directors met last 
month, and will meet again on 
March 19 of next year. Don Wa­
ters, the Director of the DLF, 
visited CMU on September 23 
and discussed issues concerning 
digital development and research.
St. Clair also said that the 
library’s number one priority next 
year would be to archive digital 
texts. Initially, the library used a 
Docutext scanner to digitize ma­
terials, but as the Internet 
emerged it became difficult to put 
these documents on the Web. As 
a result, CMU has used its expe­
rience in computer science to find 
other ways to make materials 
available online. “The most opti­
mistic estimate suggests that by 
the year 2020, half of what the 
library buys will be bought elec­
tronically,” said St. Clair. “Right 
now 10 percent is electronic.”
“The number one thing stu­
dents told me they want is more 
electronic information because 
they find it more thrilling,” said 
St. Clair. St. Clair also said that 
students spend 75 percent of their 
time with library sources using 
electronic information, such as 
library catalogs. She also said 
the availability of electronic docu­
ments will benefit students. “The 
students of CMU are most ag­
gressive in their use of digital 
materials,” said St. Clair.
Shamos feels that makingbooks 
and other documents available 
electronically not only benefits 
students, but more generally any 
person looking to find informa­
tion easily.
“Printed books are a very in­
effective method of distributing 
information,” he said, “Those 
who have more access to more 
Please see LIBRARY, page 3
By NATHAN STEINWALD
Tartan News Editor
The attitude of apathy and indifference 
commonly assigned to Carnegie Mellon 
students suffered another blow last week 
following the announcement of the new 
OnLine Registration (OLR) system. Since 
it was announced that OLR will have 
assigned start times, students have taken 
to bboards with comments and complaints 
about the new system.
“The whole thing that really bugs me is 
that they are experimenting,” said Stu­
dent Senate Academic Affairs Committee 
chair and senior mechanical engineering 
major Amy Ng. “It seems like a quick fix. 
The inherent problem is that they can’t 
meet the demand for popular classes.”
“I think students will get the classes 
they need,” said John Papinchak, co­
director of Enrollment Services and a 
member of the OLR Steering Commit­
tee. “Primarily because almost all of the 
courses have built-in reservations.”
Student Body President and junior his­
tory major Sarah Gross has had meet­
ings with a number of administrators, 
including members of the OLR Steering 
Committee. The meetings were held to go
over student reaction to the OLR lottery 
system and why student government was 
not consulted about the change.
Gross expects that students will bring 
comments to the next two Town Meet­
ings that will be held this Friday, No­
vember 13 at noon and next Monday, 
November 16 at 7 pm in the UC’s 
Connan Room.
The Steering Committee, which is re­
sponsible for the OLR changes, has been 
meeting twice a week for two hours since 
last semester. Ng was told that since the 
committee mostly deals with adminis­
trative issues there was no need for a 
student representative, especially be­
cause of the time commitment.
“I can understand that,” said Ng. 
“What I assumed they would do before 
making a change was that they would 
contact [Student Senate] since we are 
the medium of communication between 
students and [the ddministration]. They 
recognize that they should have con­
tacted Student Senate and Sarah Gross, 
but they thought that [the committee] 
would be the main target of responses. 
They have a feedback button on OLR, 
and they thought that students would 
use that. The problem with the feedback
button is that it’s one more thing for the 
server to handle and students don’t go in 
to OLR unless [they are registering].” 
Gross and Ng brought a number of 
concerns to the Steering Committee, in­
cluding the lack of student input, the time 
of registration, restrictions on upperclass­
men registering after their assigned day, 
and the random time assignments.
“I can’t say I was surprised [by the 
response] because we had been follow­
ing student opinion on the bboards,” 
said Papinchak. “We basically did not 
expect that the issue of time assign­
ments would not be accepted.”
“I asked why they are scheduling OLR 
between 6 am and 4:30 pm because that’s 
primarily class time,” said Ng. “They 
told me that they calculated that only 20 
percent of students would have class 
conflicts. I said ‘Wait, that’s one in every 
five students. You’re basically telling 
one in every five students to miss class, 
because they are going to register as 
soon as they can.’ ”
Ng was also concerned about another 
change in OLR that restricts upperclass­
men from goingbackto change their sched­
ule while underclassmen register. In the 
Please see OLR, page 3Frat quad plans for renovations

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 9 November 1998
• ••
Radical Islamic group bombs crowded market
SILAT AL HARITHIYA, West Bank 
(AP) — The radical Islamic Jihad 
claimed responsibility Saturday for the 
suicide bombing of a crowded Jerusa­
lem market and vowed more attacks to 
try to block the new peace accord.
“This heroic operation is not the first 
and not going to be the last,” the group 
warned in a leaflet faxed to news orga­
nizations. “We refuse any political 
agreement that would recognize the 
Zionist enemy.”
Meanwhile, a defiant Prime Minister 
Benjamin Netanyahu said Saturday 
that Israel would continue to build Jew­
ish neighborhoods throughout Jerusa­
lem, including at a controversial site in 
the traditionally Arab sector of the city.
“We will build also in Har Homa as 
we will build in every part of Jerusa­
lem,” Netanyahu told a crowd of politi­
cal supporters in Jerusalem “By 2000 
there will be homes at Har Homa.” 
The comments were likely to be seen 
by Palestinians as a provocation fol­
lowing Friday’s bombing at the open- 
air Jerusalem market and the signing 
last month of the Mideast peace ac­
cord in Maryland.
An Islamic Jihad official in Dam­
ascus, Syria, confirmed that the group’s 
leader, Ramadan Abdullah Shallah, 
claimed responsibility for the attack 
in an interview Saturday with Paris- 
based Radio Monte Carlo.
Although the radical group Hamas 
initially took credit for the blast with 
anonymous phone calls to police, both 
sides now agree Islamic Jihad carried 
it out. Both groups are opposed to the 
peace process.
Palestinian security sources and the 
families of the dead bombers had al­
ready identified the men as Islamic 
Jihad activists. At least half a dozen 
other activists have been rounded up 
since the bombing, the sources said. 
According to Israel radio, the Pales­
tinian Authority has closed several 
Islamic Jihad centers in Bethlehem, 
and several militants were arrested in 
Palestinian-controlled areas.
Meanwhile, Palestinian leaders said 
Israel shouldn’t use the suicide bomb­
ing, which killed the two assailants 
and wounded 21 Israelis, as an excuse 
to stop the peace process.
One of Israel’s key demands is that 
the Palestinians do more to fight at­
tacks by Islamic militants against Is­
raeli targets. The Palestinians, how­
ever, said the bombers came from Is- 
raeli-controlled areas, so Israel 
bore at least partial responsibility 
for the attack.
Hours after the bombing at 
Jerusalem’s open-air Mahane Yehuda 
market, the Israeli Cabinet suspended 
debate on ratification of the 2-week- 
old peace accord reached at the Wye 
summit in Maryland. It did not an­
nounce a date for resumption.
Israel’s Channel Two television sta­
tion reported that Secretary of State 
Madeleine Albright spoke with 
Netanyahu by phone, and told him the 
agreement must be approved soon.
Israel’s Cabinet has demanded 
clarifications from Palestinian leader 
Yasser Arafat on the procedure 
for revoking clauses in the PLO found- 
ing charter calling for Israel’s 
destruction.
Arafat told Albright the Palestin­
ian Executive Committee had met 
and ratified his position that the sec­
tions of PLO charter calling for Israel 
to be destroyed are no longer opera­
tive, State Department spokesman 
James P. Rubin said.
At the bombed market, some 200 
observant Jews gathered Saturday 
night near the site of the bombing to 
offer prayers of thanks that no lives 
other than those of the assailants 
were lost.
Pittsburgh native 
gave illegal funds
SACRAMENTO, Calif. (AP) — Bil­
lionaire and President Clinton critic Ri­
chard Mellon Scaife was fined $7,000 
Thursday for failing to report $200,000 
in campaign contributions for ballot 
measures against affirmative action and 
labor unions.
The state Fair Political Practices Com­
mission voted 3-2 to approve the penalty, 
which stemmed from donations to 
two measures pushed by Governor 
Pete Wilson.
The FPPC said Scaife gave $100,000 
earlier this year to the campaign for Propo­
sition 226, Wilson’s attempt to curb the 
power of labor unions by requiring them to 
get annual written permission from their 
members to make campaign donations. 
The measure, on the June ballot, failed.
Scaife, a Pittsburgh native newspaper 
publisher, also gave $100,000 to Proposi­
tion 209, the 1996 anti-affirmative action 
ballot measure backed by the Republican 
governor. That initiative passed.
In both cases, the campaign committees 
disclosed the donations on time, but Scaife 
did not file the required donor reports 
until state officials notified him that he 
had violated California law, the FPPC 
said. Scaife signed a stipulation admitting 
the violations and agreeing to pay the fine.
Scaife controls several foundations 
that have given millions of dollars to 
organizations run by critics of Clinton. 
That money included $1.7 million for a 
project at the conservative American 
Spectator magazine to dig up informa­
tion about Clinton’s role in the 
Whitewater real estate deal.
AIDS researcher 
hopes for vaccine
BANGKOK, Thailand (AP) — Ameri­
can AIDS researcher Robert Gallo has 
said that recent work has raised his con­
fidence that a vaccine can be developed 
against the deadly disease in four years.
Speaking to Thai researchers Friday at
Bangkok’s Chulalongkom University, 
Gallo, credited for co-discovering HIV, the 
virus that causes AIDS, said he was more 
confident of a vaccine than a year ago. 
“Recent researches make me confident 
that we will have something in the form 
of a preventive vaccine, say, in the com- 
ingthree or four years,” Gallo was quoted 
by The Nation newspaper as saying.
Gallo said recent laboratory studies 
show that a protein in the urine of women 
early in pregnancy can inhibit the repli­
cation of HIV virus in the test tube.
Study on a vaccine is meanwhile un­
der way on 80 volunteers in several 
European countries and Israel made by 
combining interferon, used in treating 
Hepatitis B and cancer, with TAT, an 
HIV-generated protein.
Gallo was quoted by the Bangkok Post 
as saying trials are likely to begin in the 
United States after it receives approval by 
the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, 
possibly in February. Clinical trials could 
begin in Thailand after that.
Gallo is a director of the Institute of 
Human Virology in Baltimore, Maryland.
Star Wars will be 
shot in Australia
SYDNEY, Australia (AP) — It took 
Luke less time to become a Jedi than it 
took director George Lucas to grasp the 
impact Star Wars had on moviegoers.
“When you’re in the center of some­
thinglike this you don’t see it very much,” 
Lucas said today, 21 years after his 
blockbuster trilogy began. “I’m begin­
ning to see it, through my 5-year-old 
son. He’s a Star Wars fanatic now and 
wants me to buy all the toys.”
The filmmaker’s company, Lucasfilm 
Ltd., and Fox Studios Australia an­
nounced today that the next two films in 
a three-part prequel to the Star Wars 
trilogy of the 1970s and 1980s will be 
made in Australia.
Plot details remain largely under 
wraps, but Lucas said the new films will 
include the tale of how Anakin 
Skywalker, father of Luke and Princess 
Leia, became Darth Vader, the villain 
behind an eerie black mask.
Filming for the first movie in the new 
series, Star Wars: Episode I The Phan­
tom Menace, was completed in Britain 
last year and is due for release in the 
United States in May 1999. The film 
stars British actors Liam Neeson as a 
Jedi master and Ewan McGregor as a 
young Ben Kenobi.
“One of the biggest problems I’ve had 
in the past is that most of the characters 
had to be made out of latex,” Lucas said. 
“It is very hard to direct around a large 
rubber thing that can’t move very well.”
After experimenting with digital tech­
nology for the slug-like character Jabba 
the Hutt, Lucas said the new films will 
have more digital characters. “I’ve got 
digital characters which can actually walk 
and talk with live action characters and do 
a performance,” he said.
The new films, each with a $120 mil­
lion budget, largely will be shot on a 
sound stage in Fox’s complex in Sydney, 
with post-production at Lucas’ head­
quarters in San Francisco.
Episode II, is expected to begin shoot­
ing in April 2000, and Episode III in 
2003, said Kim Williams, chief execu­
tive of Fox Studios Australia.
INS raid uncovers 
counterfeit ring
LOS ANGELES (AP) — Authorities 
raided a counterfeiting ring that churned 
out phony driver’s licenses, Social Secu­
rity cards, and other documents for use 
nationwide. Nine people were arrested 
in raids in Los Angeles and Orange coun­
ties, the U.S. Immigration and Natural­
ization Service (INS) said Friday.
Federal, state, and local authorities 
seized 141,000 counterfeit documents, a 
high-grade printing press, 40 plates used 
to produce fake documents, $13,500 in 
cash, and a number of weapons. The phony 
documents included driver’s licenses from 
seven states, Social Security cards, and 
green cards that confirm the holder is a 
permanent resident of the United States.
Immigration authorities said the ring 
is tied to previous INS seizures of307,000 
fake documents in California, Utah, 
Texas, Florida, and New York.
Political manuevering commences as Speaker of the House resigns
WASHINGTON (AP) — The 
men who would be Speaker of the 
House engaged in a frantic tele­
phone duel for support on Satur­
day, a day after Newt Gingrich 
stepped down and left shocked 
House Republicans searching for 
a winningmessage. Gingrich said 
he decided to leave Congress 
rather than “allow the party to 
cannibalize itself.”
. On a day when Capitol Hill was 
mostly empty except for tourists, 
the two top contenders for 
Gingrich’s job feverishly worked 
the phones from their offices. 
Another possible candidate with­
drew from consideration.
“It’s sort of like an Easter egg 
hunt,” said Representative 
Christopher Cox, R-Calif., one of 
the two leading candidates, as 
he emerged briefly from his of­
fice in a white cardigan and 
brown corduroy pants. “It’s who­
ever gets the Easter egg first.”
Down the same corridor, per­
ceived front-runner Representa­
tive Bob Livingston, R-La., tele­
phoned House Republicans to seek 
their support, glued to his desk 
and wearing a blue “USS Boxer” 
baseball cap for the amphibious 
assault ship where he once served.
“To us right now, getting votes 
is more important than getting 
press,” said spokesman Mark 
Corallo, explaining why 
Livingston would not grant an 
interview. Livingston did plan to 
appear on a Sunday morning news 
show, however, and Cox sched­
uled appearances on two others.
Livingston supporters, speak­
ing on condition of anonymity, 
said he had 80 or more of the 112 
votes that will be needed when 
House Republicans vote for new 
leaders on November 18. Such 
pledges of support can be tenu­
ous, however, because the vote is 
by secret ballot.
The next Congress will have 
223 Republicans, 211 Democrats, 
and one independent who usu­
ally votes with Democrats.
Livingston got a boost when 
House Whip Tom DeLay, R-Texas, 
announced he would support his 
quest for speaker. DeLay, the No. 
3 House Republican, is consid­
ered the safest of the top four 
House leaders and is the only one 
not now being challenged.
Gingrich, meanwhile, spoke 
publicly for the first time since 
the astonishing announcement 
Friday evening that his mete­
oric 20-year House career — in­
cluding four frenzied years as 
speaker — was over.
“I think as a practical matter 
for me to stay in the House would 
make it impossible for a new 
leader to learn, to grow, to do 
what they have to do,” Gingrich 
said outside his home in Marietta, 
Ga. He will resign not just his
speakership but also his seat in 
Congress, he said.
Gingrich’s decision came just 
days after House Republicans saw 
their majority reduced to the point 
that just six defections by GOP 
lawmakers would cost them de­
feats, instead of the 11-vote mar­
gin they have had. Not long ago, 
party leaders had hoped to win
30 to 40 seats. Since then, the 
GOP has been convulsed with 
infighting over who was to blame, 
with most fingers pointed at the 
current House leaders.
Gingrich urged the GOP to unite, 
saying, “The prospect of A1 Gore as 
President and a Democratic Con­
gress should be enough to focus 
every Republican in the country.”
Among those Livingston 
phoned was Representative Vito 
Fossella, a 32-year old Staten Is­
land, N.Y. conservative just 
elected to his first full House term. 
Fossella said he would probably
support Livingston.
“I don’t see anyone else who 
could bring the party together 
and stress what the party should 
be about: tax cuts, stressing indi­
vidual freedom, and making the 
government smaller and more 
efficient,” Fossella said.
But Livingston, whose commit­
tee writes annual spending bills 
worth more than a third of the 
federal budget, is a target of some 
conservatives unhappy with 
the projects those measures 
often contain.
Conservative Representative 
David McIntosh, R-Ind., said 
Livingston would appeal to the 
GOP’s “older style of lawmaker 
... the pork caucus,” adding, “I 
think he would lead us back into 
the minority.”
McIntosh said he would back 
Cox, who he said stands for “bal­
ancing the budget and the 
Reaganite agenda.”
Also considering a run at the 
speakership was GOP Represen­
tative James Talent of Missouri, 
42, the chairman of the House 
Small Business Committee and a 
three-term House veteran who gets 
along with conservatives and mod­
erates alike. Talent also planned 
to appear on a Sunday news show.
House Ways and Means Chair­
man Bill Archer, R-Texas, dropped 
out of the race, saying he believed 
he could win but didn’t want to 
run for personal reasons. “I have 
been through one of the most emo­
tional days of my life,” said Ar­
cher, 70, a 28-year House veteran 
who has said he will leave Con­
gress after his next two-year term.
Gingrich, who also planned to 
travel to Pennsylvania to visit 
his mother, said he was examin­
ing the legalities of resigning from 
the House. He is expected to leave 
before the new Congress is sworn 
in January 3.
Four-Day Forecast
Tuesday
flü
k Thunder showers Hi 58 Lo 40
Wednesday
l i
Partly cloudy > Hi 46 Lo 42
ThursdaySunnyif \ Hi 47 
Lo 28
Friday c
'¡min
L Showers Hi 48 Lo 32
Carnegie Almanac
from National Weather Service bulletins and other sources
50 YEARS AGO, November 
10,1948 — The Kiltie Band pre­
pared to make their longest trip 
of the season to Bethlehem for a 
football game against Lehigh.
In preparation, the bandsmen 
were drilled on the Carnegie 
cheers, formations, and music. 
The trip would require two char­
tered buses and several cars to 
make the all-night trip to Lehigh, 
where the band would be 
the largest part of Carnegie’s 
cheering section.
25 YEARS AGO, November 6, 
1973 — The CMU Student Gov­
ernment faced a dire situation, 
as there were twice as many 
seats to be filled as candidates 
to fill them.
Only 16 candidates submitted 
petitions by the deadline. As a 
result, write-in voting was per­
mitted in the upcoming elections. 
The expected results were that 
many write-in candidates would 
win with less than 10 votes.
The situation was similar to 
the previous year, when 14 can­
didates nominated themselves for
31 seats. Half of the Senators 
elected would serve for a full 
year, while half would serve 
a half-year.
10 YEARS AGO, November 8, 
1988 — CMU prepared to inte­
grate NeXT computer systems into 
the Andrew network being devel­
oped jointly with IBM. The work­
stations were priced at around 
$6770, similar to IBM and Sun 
workstations of the same type at 
the time.
Carnegie Mellon became heavily 
involved in NeXT computer sys­
tems as one of the original inves­
tors in the company headed by 
Steve Jobs, the former Apple com­
puter president. Jobs was im­
pressed with CMU’s computer 
projects at the time and felt that 
his new computer workstations 
would fit in well at the Uni versity.
FIVE YEARS AGO, Novem­
ber 8,1993 — The CMU Psychol­
ogy department unveiled a com­
puterized intelligent tutoring sys­
tem that would assist students 
by showing them how to solve 
mathematical problems. The pro­
gram was tested in Pittsburgh’s 
Langley High School and received 
excellent reviews.
The program determined 
where the students were in 
the problem solving process, and 
interacted with them in 
finding solutions.
The program proved to be very
successful in the high school, as 
many students’ grades increased 
with its use.
ONE YEAR AGO, November 
10, 1997 — Two CMU students 
were robbed at gunpoint near 
the corner of Morewood and 
Bayard Avenues.
The students were walking to 
campus after a service at St. 
Andrews Church when a man 
wearing a camouflage jacket 
stopped them. The man carried 
a gun and ordered them to give 
him their money. He also took 
both of their watches.
Campus police put up crime 
alert flyers around campus, and 
encouraged students to use the 
Escort Service.
Compiled by 
ISH HARSHAWAT

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 9 November 19983Students object to new OLR
OLR, from page 1
past it was possible to go back the day after 
a student’s registration day at any time to 
add or drop classes. New changes do not 
allow that. If seniors want to register on 
any of the registration days after Monday 
they will have to wait until after the time 
slots have all started for that day.
The reasoning for thatwas to reduce the 
competition between years for registra­
tion slots and to reduce the server load. Ng 
feels that the change does not account for
students who may not be able to register 
on their day, and that there would not be 
many of them in any case, so the addi­
tional server load would be minimal.
“That’s one of the big problems I have 
with the [changes],” said Ng. “It doesn’t 
make sense because [students] already 
are competing. I’m trying to get that 
changed because it’s really silly.”
Ng said that with only two weeks to 
respond to the changes before registra­
tion, it seems unlikely that there is time
to change the lottery this semester. How­
ever, she is interested in seeing some 
improvements made to the lottery if it 
will be a permanent part of OLR.
John Papinchak said he is confident 
that the system will work.
“I think that as students find that 
they are getting the classes they need 
and in addition the classes they want, 
they will [accept the lottery],” said 
Papinchak. “I think this will be a last­
ing improvement.”CMU contributes to Digital Library
LIBRARY, from page 1
books get more done. Making these 
books available online would allow 
people all over the world to access 
information currently only available 
to select institutions and people with 
large amounts of resources. If disad­
vantaged people had the same oppor­
tunities, they would be more equal 
with the rest of the world. Information
is the great equalizer; it gives the per­
son that has it more leverage and ca­
pability. Electronic information is 
readily available, and at any time.” 
St. Clair said that currently there is 
a lack of scholarly material available 
electronically, and it is released less 
frequently than commercial materi­
als. In the field of astro-physics, for 
example, she said everything is avail-
able electronically. In other fields, 
however, most scientific journals are 
owned commercially and are not mo­
tivated to publish electronically. As a 
result, she said only five percent of 
electronic materials are good for stu­
dents to use in research.
St. Clair said that by joining the DLF, 
CMU can now learn how to better serve 
those looking for information.
Loss of electricity disrupts campus
DARK, from page 1
because this time of year there is the 
lowest load.”
Computing Services and the cam­
pus network were affected by the 
power outage as well. “While the 
outage was occurring, there was 
UPS (uninteruptable power system) 
that we used to power down the 
system,” said director of operations 
Charles Bartel. “From 3:45 pm to 6 
or 6:30 pm we restored the bulk of 
the network and its services. We 
had some problems with Cyrus so 
that took a little longer, but we got 
it back up.”
The UPS was installed at Carnegie 
Mellon to provide emergency back-up 
power for Cyert Hall and the comput­
ers located there. The system pro­
vides approximately five minutes of
backup power.
“Before we installed the UPS, we did 
a study and determined that most of 
our problems were with short losses of 
power,” said Bartel. “With the ride 
through we were able to shut off most 
of the computers safely. We had one or 
two that we didn’t get off in time, but 
we have backups so we just installed 
them. To our knowledge we had 100 
percent restoration.”
According to Bartel, the UPS sys­
tem should recharge within eight hours 
of a complete discharge. He said that 
Duquesne Light and FMS were confi­
dent that there wouldn’t be any more 
power interruptions, making it safe 
for thecomputer to be turned on again.
[Ed. Note: David Elman is a Tartan 
Staffzvriter.]University schedules long-awaited repairs to fraternity houses
QUAD, from page 1
million each. For other houses that do 
not require the extensive foundation 
work that PiKA and DTD require, the 
renovation costs may be closer to 
$300,000 said Messing.
Renovations on all 12 houses, ac­
cording to Michael, will cost $6.37 
million and will give them a modern 
feel. The expenses in the long run will 
be covered entirely by the fraterni­
ties’ rent payments, although funds 
will be borrowed to cover the costs.
“One of [the fraternity brothers’] 
concerns is that it is getting too ex­
pensive to live [in the fraternity 
houses],” said Michael. Brothers have 
repeatedly complained about the high 
rent for the small, worn-down accom­
modations, but they choose to stay on 
campus because it facilitates rush, 
said Andersen. Fraternities that have
moved off-campus in the past have 
reduced membership drastically and 
struggled to survive, according to 
Andersen.
The pricey rent is due in part to the 
previous kitchen and bathroom reno­
vations that are just now being paid off 
in full. “The school does not pay for any 
renovations,” said Josh Baer, the house 
manager of Sigma Alpha Epsilon (SAE) 
and a senior CS major. Baer explained 
that items covered in the lease (such as 
extermination fees) are paid for by 
Housing, but furnishings for the house 
are not included. “That would just in­
crease our rent. In most situations, 
when it comes to doing things through 
the school or doing it ourselves, we 
usually do it ourselves if we get a 
chance,” he said.
Day-to-day maintenance, however, 
is not something the brothers are al­
lowed to take care of themselves — 
they are obligated to hire Central 
Property Services (CPS), contracted 
through the University, for all repairs. 
Baer said, “The thing with CPS is 
they don’t fix things right the first 
time. It often takes multiple visits 
and repeated complaints to get prob­
lems solved. It is quite common to find 
CPS workers watching TV or playing 
pool while they are supposed to be 
cleaning our houses.” According to 
Baer, maintenance requests are filed 
up to three times a week per house. 
CPS is expensive, but the fraternities 
are not allowed to seek other poten­
tially cheaper contractors for their 
maintenance needs. CPS could not be 
reached for comment.
Housing is planning to reduce the 
fraternities’ rent fees by up to 10 per­
cent while still implementing the reno­
vation plan. The base rent per house 
next year is anticipated to be $96,000, 
a considerable decrease from this year’s 
fee. This rent price includes the reno­
vation costs for plumbing, heating, and 
other significant problems at $20 per 
square foot. Houses can choose to imple­
ment additional renovations which will 
increase the renovation costs to $40, 
$60, or $80 per square foot. As a basis 
for comparison, the recent renovations 
to the Mudge House were $40 per 
square foot.
The degree to which each house is 
renovated depends on how much an in­
dividual house can afford to spend. Some 
fraternities, such as PhiKap, have 38 
brothers living in the house, making it 
easier to cover the cost of rent. Most 
houses are not filled to maximum capac­
ity, however, leaving the brothers a 
higher rent per person.
Based on the results of the audit, the 
fraternity houses in the worst condition 
will be renovated first this summer. 
“We’ve got several fraternities that have 
expressed an interest in being first,” 
said Michael. Approximately two or 
three houses will be refurbished each 
summer for the next three or four sum­
mers. Because the houses mustbe empty 
while they are being renovated, the con­
struction can only take place during the 
summer months.
While the idea of better living accom­
modations and lower rent fees are ex­
citing to the fraternity brothers, many 
will not be around when all the renova­
tions are complete. For now, an archi­
tect must be hired, and, with some in­
put from individual house managers, a 
financially feasible renovation plan 
must be developed before the repair 
process can begin.
Crime and Incident Report
10/26 THEFT, 8:30 am — The 
co-owner of LaPrima in the CFA 
basement arrived to open her 
stand only to find that she had 
once again been the victim of a 
weekend break in. Someone had 
broken the lock on a steel cabinet 
and removed cups, straws, cook­
ies, and biscotti. Several gallons 
of milk were stolen from the cooler, 
which does not have a lock but is 
covered by a tarp. She contacted 
Campus Police to report the theft.
10/30 MEDICAL,6:35 pm—A 
Campus Police officer was wait­
ing in line at The “O” in the Uni­
versity Center when he saw an 
employee faint behind the 
counter. He radioed CMU EMS 
for assistance. The victim was in 
a seated position behind the 
counter and appeared to be un­
conscious. He then awoke, at­
tempted to stand, and nearly 
fainted again. The officer told the 
victim to lay down until the EMS 
personnel could arrive.
One of the other employees said 
that the victim’s 95-year-old fa­
ther had suffered a heart attack 
within the past week. The victim, 
being depressed about this news, 
hadn’t eaten or slept in the past 
three days. The victim was trans­
ported to Mercy Hospital.
10/30 DISORDERLY CON­
DUCT / LIQUOR LAWS, 9:44 
pm — Someone called Campus 
Police to report a large disorderly 
group behind the Margaret Mor­
rison building in the Children’s 
School parking area. Six officers 
immediately responded, but when 
they got to the parking area, no 
one was there. They also checked 
the B and C levels of the building 
with negative results.
While the officers were check­
ing the areas, a different caller 
contacted Campus Police to re­
port a drunken person on the 
grassy hillside between Donner 
and Resnik Halls. She said that 
there were many people trying to 
help him. When the officers ar­
rived, one male was assisting an­
other. Both were intoxicated as 
evidenced by their slurred speech, 
breath, and verbal admissions to 
drinking. Both were under 21 
years of age. The sicker of the two 
(Drunk #1) had been vomiting, so 
the other (Drunk #2) had gotten 
him some water to drink.
The officers askedthe pair where 
they had been drinking. Drunk #1 
said that they were given alcohol 
in the design area in Margaret 
Morrison Carnegie Hall. One of 
the officers noticed flashing lights 
comingfrom room A6 in that build­
ing, so four of the officers left to 
check out the potential party.
The remaining two officers 
walked the drunk students to 
the picnic table near the hill­
side for the issuance of cita­
tions. They were given state 
citations since, though the call 
was requesting help for Drunk 
#1, the caller had no relation­
ship to either of the actors or 
the party. Because of the ex­
treme intoxication of Drunk #1, 
the officers contacted CMU 
EMS to assess him. Although 
Drunk #2 had offered to care 
for Drunk #1, since Drunk #2 
was also intoxicated, the offic­
ers did not feel he could care for 
Drunk #1 adequately.
The other four officers found a 
party in progress in room A6, 
with music, dancing, and many 
open cups of alcoholic beverages. 
All students were carded; two 
were under 21 and were dealt 
with accordingly. One of the stu­
dents, who was 21, admitted to 
purchasing all the alcohol for 
the party, but he said that he 
provided no alcohol to those un­
der 21. He also said that the 
Design Department had autho­
rized the party. However, there 
was no one from that 
department’s staff at the party, 
as required by CMU’s alcohol 
policy. Because of this, the party 
organizer was issued an inter­
nal citation for an unauthorized 
party. The officers also informed 
the organizer there could be 
criminal charges pressed 
against him pending the inves­
tigation of the underage drink­
ers. The officers confiscated the 
remaining alcohol.
10/31 UNDERAGE CON­
SUMPTION, 2:22 am — While 
on fraternity patrol, three Cam­
pus Police officers saw a male 
about to urinate in public near 
the bushes of a fraternity. When 
they asked him to produce some 
identification, he fumbled in his 
wallet. His speech was slurred, 
and he smelled of alcohol. He 
stumbled as he walked toward 
the officers. One of the officers 
asked how much he had had to 
drink, and he said he had only 
three drinks.
The officers asked where he 
had been drinking, and he pointed 
to a fraternity house. Two of the 
officers left to issue that frater­
nity house an internal citation 
and tell them of the criminal 
charges that would be pending 
for serving a minor.
The actor was a Duquesne Uni­
versity student. The remaining 
officer issued him a state citation 
and then let him go.
10/31 INCIDENT, 7:04 pm — 
A Campus Police officer saw a 16- 
foot moving van parked on the 
lawn of a fraternity house for an 
extended period of time and 
wanted it moved. He and two 
other officers responded to the 
house where they discovered that 
the van was being used to haul 
equipment for a live band.
The officers spoke with both 
the president and the social 
chair of the fraternity. The of­
ficers informed them that if the 
van was not moved, the house 
may be charged for the repairs 
to the lawn. The two said that it 
would be too much of an incon­
venience to move the van and 
they would accept any financial
responsibilities for the repair of 
the lawn.
10/31 CRIMINAL MIS­
CHIEF, 10:08 pm — A Campus 
Police officer was dispatched to 
Mudge House after a resident 
called saying that he heard eggs 
hit his dormitory window ap­
proximately 10 minutes earlier. 
When the officer got to the exte­
rior of the dormitory, there were 
several egg shells and some egg 
residue on the window. The vic­
tim said that when he looked out 
his window, he did not notice 
anyone in the area. The window 
suffered no damage, and FMS 
was contacted to have the egg 
remnants removed.
• Campus Chief of Police James 
Lapaglia reviews all reports prior 
to release.
• Only three people on The Tar­
tan staff see the reports: the edi­
tor in chief, the news editor, and 
the staff writer typing the report.
•All personal names of com­
plainants, victims, suspects, 
and fraternity names are omit­
ted from the printed report. Eth-* 
nic descriptions and other per-, 
sonal details are given only in. 
the context of complete descrip­
tions.
•Not every incident that occurs. 
appears in the report.
Compiled by. 
RYAN SCHILLING
Corrections/Clarifications...
In the October 26 Tartan article, “Performance excels despite 
script,” Jenna Kalinowski was incorrectly identified as Jenna 
Kerlowsky.
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of an 
error, please contact Editor-in-Chief Becky A. Cowser at 
tartan@andrew.cmu.edu.
201 SOUTH CRAIG ST. 
(412) 687-6626
COMPACT DISCS 
CASSETTES 
VIDEOS
NEW AND USED BUY-SELL-TRADE
Bla ckkou thkismspO
* Includes Bitcwing X-rays, Exam, and Consultation with Dr. Hart. New Patients only.(S105 value)
Where Quality and Comfort are a Priority
• “DRILL-LESS” Airjet Dentistry
• Private Practice Dentist
• Prompt Emergency Care
• State-of-the-Art Sterilization
• Low radiation X-Rays
• Mercury-Free Fillings
• Metal-Free Crowns and Bridges
• Cosmetic, Bonding, & Veneers
• Teeth Whitening
John W Hart D.D.S.
200 N Craig Street
Gentle Dental Care
10% Professional Courtesy for CMU Students and Faculty 
Take the CMU Campus bus to our front door!
We accept Visa, Mastercard, and DiscoverTHEE ARN O RLNN

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Carnegie Mellon University9 November 1998Cluster services needs better management
Campus clusters have been fall 
of problems from the beginning of 
the semester. Clusters are under­
staffed, computers are poorly 
maintained, and basic services 
such as printing are inadequate. 
With the crunch of finals ap­
proaching, Cluster Services’ needs 
to rethink its poor management 
of facilities and equipment as well 
as address its inability to prop­
erly staff clusters. Carnegie 
Mellon’s standing as a national 
leader in computer technology and 
its promise that students have 
access to that technology makes 
the current overall cluster ineffi­
ciency unacceptable.
A major problem that Cluster 
Services faces is poor managerial 
structure. According to Cluster 
Services Manager Pomona 
Valero, while there are usually 
100 computer consultants 
(CCons), this semester there are 
only 65. Cluster Services has tried 
to optimize the use of all the CCons 
currently employed and has even 
tried to hire more but has not 
succeeded. If Cluster Services 
made more of an effort to give its 
CCons clear job expectations and 
rewarded them for doing well, 
more students would be interested 
in being a CCon. Also, Cluster 
Services should rethink its train­
ing program for CCons, since 
many students have complained 
about inadequate CCon service 
—from CCons who clog a cluster’s 
printing queue during peak hours 
with overnight print jobs to CCons 
who fail to show up for work and 
cause a cluster to remain closed.
Last semester, Cluster Services 
began an on-call pilot system de­
signed to fill in for absent CCons 
during the weekday hours. This 
on-call system allows for one CCon 
to be available in whichever clus­
ter he or she is needed. So if a 
printer is down or if a CCon does 
not come in for his or her shift, 
this on-call CCon can fill in.
With fewer CCons on duty, there 
are fewer people to answer ques­
tions and maintain cluster equip­
ment. This makes students’ lives 
more difficult, as they are faced to 
wait in long print queues and try 
to figure out broken equipment 
on their own. Since most clusters 
are packed with classes during 
the day, it is important that the 
time students do have to work in 
the clusters is maximized.
Most upgrades to clusters hap­
pen during breaks, such as the 
current plan to add three new 
printers to campus clusters over 
winter break. Cluster Services 
needs a more timely maintenance 
schedule than just once every six 
months, so students don’t have to 
use equipment that fails, such as 
outdated printers but forced to 
handle a large daily print load.
While it’s too late to improve the 
services and equipment in all cam­
pus clusters before the heavy com­
puting time of finals, Cluster Ser­
vices should begin to seriously re­
think its CCon training and clus­
ter maintenance schedule for next 
semester. These problems deserve 
more than just a quick-fix solution 
for better campus-wide comput­
ing power and efficiency.
James Mojonnier/Tartan Art Editor
Nation underestimates vile alien threaty~2T
Yishan Wong
“The wars of tomorrow will 
not be fought on battlefields, 
but in outer space, or on the 
tops of very high mountains. 
In any case, most of the actual 
fighting will be done by very 
small robots. And as you go 
forth today, remember that it 
will be your duty to build and 
maintain these robots.”
—commencement address 
at military academy, The 
Simpsons.
Today, the U.S. military out­
strips the rest of the world in 
technological and numerical 
superiority. An accounting of 
government employees reveals 
that half are employed by the 
military. In 1999, we’ll spend 
$270 billion on military fund­
ing, double the combined mili­
tary budgets of our eight most 
likely enemies. While the rest 
of the world has reduced its 
spending to 30 or 40 percent of 
Cold War levels, U.S. military
spending remains at 82 
percent of Cold War levels, 
making up 43 percent of our 
discretionary federal funds 
(Statistics courtesy of the 
Friends Committee on Na­
tional Legislation Web page at 
http: I ¡www. clark. net /pub/ 
fcnl / mil$doc.htm).
Military technology has 
reached unheard-of heights, 
far surpassing anything de­
veloped in history or currently 
in use by any other foreign 
military. But our confidence 
is ill-founded.
We are not safe enough.
No one on this planet can
Students need all-
¦ a ftp Bj ¦ Cold War levels, U.S. military Nell Babra/Tartan Art Staff Please see ALIENS, page 5
mgilt fOOCI S6ÎVIC6 Undergraduate advising needs restructuring
fight a war with the U.S. and 
win, but we face a far greater 
threat — from outer space. 
Yes, I speak of aliens. Ma­
levolent aliens come to con­
quer and enslave. Or perhaps 
they would not be so merci­
ful; perhaps they wish only to 
wipe out all life on this planet 
and strip it of its precious 
minerals. We would be no 
more than vermin to them.
It is not that we spend too 
little on the military, we just 
don’t spend it in the right 
places. Here we are, invest­
ing our money on primitive 
mass driver technology and 
guns that sling a small slug 
of metal using outdated ac- 
tion-reaction explosive de­
vices. Where are our anti­
matter cannons, our energy 
force fields? Where are the 
nimble fighter craft that can 
turn without regard for iner­
tial forces?
Oh, you laugh now, but you 
won’t be laughing when our 
marines get their heads 
blasted open in a hot bloody 
Please see ALIENS, page 5
Carnegie Mellon has long been 
lacking a 24-hour food service. 
Unlike students at many other 
campuses around the country, 
CMU students cannot take an 
hour out of an all-night study ses­
sion to eat something besides 
pizza, and they can only eat pizza 
until 2 am on weeknights. There 
is no late-night dining establish­
ment within convenient walking 
distance from the dormitories and 
no delivery service available at 
all hours. The problem particu­
larly affects first-year students 
and others who often don’t have 
adequate transportation to go to 
off-campus eateries late at night. 
An all night food establishment 
on campus would serve to accom­
modate students’ lifestyles.
Dining Services has been facing 
financial problems as of late; 
Entropy’s hours have been cut be­
cause it was not profitable during 
late hours, and Skibo turns off its 
grills after midnight for the same 
reason. But these establishments 
do not serve the late-night dining 
needs of students because of poor 
atmosphere and limited food vari­
ety. Dining Services should take 
the time to get student opinion on a 
24-hour dining facility. With stu­
dent input, Dining Services could 
implement an establishment that 
would possibly increase their prof­
its. If, however, Dining Services 
thinks a 24-hour service would be 
too much of a financial strain, the 
University should look into hiring 
an outside vendor to accommodate
the needs of students.
One option for this would be a 
diner-style eatery on campus, 
within a short walking distance 
from a dormitories. The establish­
ment would offer a similar menu 
to that of the already popular 
Ritter’s diner or Eat ‘n’ Park — 
breakfast foods, sandwiches, and 
light dinners. With the Morewood 
Basement currently in the plan­
ning stages of construction, it 
should be considered first for an 
all-night eatery, especially if the 
University follows through with 
its plan to build a new dormitory 
between Morewood and Mudge.
A food delivery service is an­
other alternative for a 24-hour 
food service. Such an establish­
ment could take advantage of the 
existing kitchen facilities of the 
University Center and would not 
have the overhead costs of a full 
wait staff or dining room. Stu­
dents would be able to have a 
variety of foods delivered to their 
dorm rooms or apartments for a 
reasonable price, even using Cam­
pus Xpress or Dine Express or 
dining blocks to pay for the food. 
Dining Services could even test 
this method on a trial basis just to 
see whether it would catch on.
Regardless of the method, 
Carnegie Mellon should have a 
food service that is available 
around the clock and offers a vari­
ety of foods. Such a system would 
be supported by the campus com­
munity and would accommodate 
students’ unpredictable schedules.
Editor’s Notebook
by Rebecca Fribush
Gripes and criticism have been flying 
eyer since The HUB unveiled its plan to 
assign lottery slots for Online Registra­
tion. Studeiits are waking up screaming 
from nightmares that involve repeatedly 
being told that every slot in every class 
they want is taken, all the while staring 
at a hypnotically yellow computer screen. 
But what about that other facet of regis­
tration — the other one that can inspire 
horror stories? What about advisors?
Advisors should be there to help stu­
dents determine what to take and how 
to complete their areas of study. Their 
main role should be as a resource for the 
student—a helpful human who’s avail­
able to step in when the course catalog 
starts to look too thick and confusing.
But in some cases, the advisors just 
can’t or don’t do a good job of fulfilling 
this role. There’s the extreme cases, like 
the advisors who try and encourage stu­
dents to take specific programs for rea­
sons that have nothing to do with what 
the student wants or what meets his or 
her needs. I’ve heard stories of an advi­
sor in one technical discipline who gave 
some women who wanted to transfer to 
other majors a hard time because he 
wanted them to remain in the program 
to balance out the gender ratios.
But there are some problems that 
aren’t quite as heinous. Like advisors 
who probably couldn’t tell their advisees 
apart from the pizza delivery person 
unless their lives depended on it. With 
the way advising is handled in many 
departments, many students have no 
clue whatsoever as to who their advisors 
are, and the advisors have very little
clue as to how to best help their stu­
dents. Oddly enough, the departments 
with the most complaints and the least 
advisor-student contact are often the 
departments with the most separate ad­
visors. For example, the English depart­
ment has a whole bunch of professors 
who share advising responsibilities. 
Each professor is assigned a small group 
of students — usually 10 or less. In 
theory, this would be wonderful. Stu­
dents could develop personal relation­
ships with advisors who really get to 
know them and their needs. In practice, 
I’ve never met or so much as been con­
tacted by my English advisor. In fact, I 
wasn’t even sure what gender my advi­
sor was until I was informed the other 
week that he was male.
Advisors who only handle small groups 
of students often haven’t had much ex­
perience sheparding herds of advisees 
through the intricacies of their depart­
mental requirements. This unfamiliar­
ity often makes it more difficult for them 
to help students knowledgeably. Since 
these advisors often are faculty mem­
bers with full teaching responsibilities, 
it’s probably hard for them to find time 
to learn details of requirements, or to 
make an effort to contact their students.
Then there’s the opposite extreme, where 
one person handles all the advising for a 
department, somehow managing to 
squeeze in meetings with every single 
student seeking to pick classes for the 
next semester. Such advisors, which in­
clude those of the Computer Science, Biol­
ogy, and History departments, often know 
every nook and cranny of their depart­
ments and can offer effective advice. Since 
advising is their primary focus, they’re 
more likely to put added effort into con­
tacting students. All this would be great 
except that it’s likely to leave these poor 
advisors with little sanity and little time 
to spend with individual students. And 
students often feel guilty taking up these 
advisors’ time. One advisor who handles 
all the upperclassmen within his depart­
ment met with about 50 students in just 
two days last week in order to discuss 
registration issues.
Maybe something in between these two 
extremes would work. Departments could 
have a few faculty members whose pri­
mary responsibility is advising, and they 
could split the work among them. They 
could divide students up by year, by pro­
gram, or by some other means. That way, 
there would be few enough advisors that 
each one could quickly gain the familiar­
ity with requirements that’s necessary to 
be truly effective. There also would be 
enough to ensure that each individual 
advisor has enough time to give indi­
vidual students their due.
Also, perhaps something needs to be 
done to ensure that every student at 
least touches base with his or her advi­
sor when it becomes time to choose 
classes. Without this contact, students 
might be missing important advice. But, 
if meetings aren’t required, and if advi­
sors don’t even contact their advisees, 
it’s highly unlikely that most students 
will schedule meetings of their own ac­
cord. RAD forms, the pre-OLR system, 
required that students get their advisor’s 
signature. OLR doesn’t make you meet 
with your advisor. Sure, that little box 
comes up after you sign up asking if 
you’ve met with your advisor, but how 
many people who haven’t actually an­
swer that question truthfully?
But, to be fair, increasing contact be­
tween students and their advisors isn’t 
just the advisors’ responsibility. Students 
should realize how important it is to seek 
these resources out — after all, these 
people get paid to let you know when the 
schedule you’ve picked for this semester 
is going to leave you catching up on courses 
for three more semesters. And that could 
be more painful than being dealt a 5 pm 
OLR start time any day.
Becca Fribush is The Tartan Forum 
Editor. She really will meet with her En­
glish advisor this semester. She promises.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 9 November 19985Recent elections lead to varied reflections
Negative ads insult voter intelligence
Open Forum
by Lorelei Laird
Unless you’ve been living under a 
rock for the past week, you’ve probably 
heard something about the Republican 
party’s whipping in last Tuesday’s elec­
tions. In a surprise defeat, Republicans 
won nary a seat but lost a total of 11 
seats in federal and state senates. (All 
statistics courtesy the Washington Post.) 
In the biggest surprise of all, Reform 
Party candidate Jesse “The Body” 
Ventura, a former professional wres­
tler, took the gubernatorial seat for the 
state of Minnesota from the incumbent 
GOP. Now everyone from secretaries in 
North Carolina to the Christian Coali­
tion is blaming the Republican National 
Committee’s “negative advertisements” 
for their poor performance at the polls. 
And while I hate to agrée with Ralph 
Reed on anything, they’re right. How­
ever, I’d like to posit that similar adver­
tisements from the Democrats are just 
as responsible for the statement that 
voters made last Tuesday — and that 
that statement was one of disgust.
The ads in question depict two “soccer 
mom” types discussing their election 
plans. In the Republican version, one 
declares firmly that “[President Clinton] 
lied to us for nine months” so she’s 
voting Republican. They go on to talk 
about how the Republicans have done 
good things for the country. But loom­
ing over the whole thing, as obviously as 
a dead rat at Thanksgiving dinner, is 
the implication that unlike Clinton, the 
Republicans are honest and fair deal­
ers. It didn’t take long before the Demo­
crats struck back with a similar “soccer 
moms” ad, this time putting the two 
deep into conversation about how Con­
gressional Republicans are ignoring the 
issues to focus on a Presidential witch 
hunt. Self-righteously, Mom #1 declares: 
“There is a way to stop this — vote 
Democratic.”
While all of this may be true, Clinton 
was not actually up for reelection. His 
wrongdoing has very little relevance to a 
state senate election in, say, Vermont. 
And that’s what I find so objectionable, 
about the ads: Both parties are trying to 
run their candidates almost entirely on 
the Lewinsky scandal. The platform? 
“The party ofthe other guy sucks!” Where, 
oh where are the issues? Where is some­
thing more than lip service on the crappy 
public school system or the failed “war on 
drugs?” Do the Republicans actually be-
lieve that we would vote for them merely 
because the bad guy belongs to the other 
party? Do the Democrats actually believe 
that they deserve our vote just because 
“pomographer” Ken Starr is a conserva­
tive? That doesn’t speak well for either 
party’s estimation of our intelligence. The 
message we’re being sent here is one of 
blatant disrespect: Our leaders have so little 
esteem for their constituents’ intelligence 
that they’re willing to bank on ignorance 
and blind partisanship to get reelected. 
That’s not just insulting, it’s offensive. In 
fact, if it’s repeated long enough, it’s suffi­
cient to make me stop voting altogether.
And I think voters agree with me. Of the 
adults eligible to vote in this election, the 
turnout was 38 percent. That’s fairly typi­
cal of recent voter turnouts, which have 
been steadily declining — as the incidence 
of television smear ads 
has been increasing. Ob­
viously, negative adver­
tisements can’t account 
for the downturn en­
tirely, but with all the 
cynicism that these non­
voters express in the 
media, I’m not willing to 
put it down to coinci­
dence. Furthermore, the 
Republicans, the party 
with the more obnoxious 
commercial, lost far more 
seats than their Demo­
cratic opponents. Inde­
pendent parties (dis­
counting the Whigs) 
have more seats in Con­
gress than ever, and have 
even put up a serious con- 
tender for the Presi­
dency. And the Washing­
ton Post reports that smear campaigns 
were a significant factor in deterring voters 
from areas with highly contested seats.
This is hardly the first time that we’ve 
seen negative ad campaigns, but the 
Lewinsky circus lends this set an added 
dimension. After nearly a year of moraliz­
ing, confessions, and cigar jokes, I think it’s 
safe to say that voters are just tired of it. 
Dragging it into an unrelated election only 
makes the whole enterprise seem childish 
and irrelevant. Both of the major parties 
need a drastic rethinking of their cam­
paign tactics, lest they alienate their voters 
for good. Otherwise, we may see more and 
more independent parties gain footholds 
in Congress. And that’s not necessarily a 
bad thing.
As long as most of them aren’t profes­
sional wrestlers.
Lorelei Laird probably shouldn’t be pok­
ing so much fun at Minnesota. After all, 
she’s from California, a state formerly gov - 
erned by actor I clown I arms salesman 
extraordinare Ronald Reagan.
Ballots underwhelm nation, students
Open Forum
by Ellen Beidner
Sometime around second grade, those 
of us who grew up in the United States 
learned that What Makes Our Country 
Special is that we can control the govern­
ment through the ballot box. (Let’s face it, 
it’s easier to hand eight year olds a simpli­
fied ideal than present them with the 
more cynical reality of the true nature of 
government.) This was before the U.S.S.R. 
collapsed, before the Berlin Wall crumbled 
to dust. We were 
taught that voting 
was why the Shot 
Heard ’Round the 
World was fired, and 
the ability to exercise 
your right to vote is 
the hallmark of a 
free society.
We’ve gotten the 
chance to cast our 
ballots twice in the 
past two weeks. At 
CMU, Senate held 
fall elections to fill 
vacant Senate seats. 
And, in case you’ve 
been burrowed in the 
cluster for the past 
month, national elec­
tions were last Tues­
day, giving Ameri­
cans the chance to 
pick and choose their Representatives, 
one-third of their Senators, and a host 
of amendments, initiatives, and local 
officials.
I didn’t vote in either election.
There are several reasons why eligible 
voters don’t exercise their right: Apathy, 
protest, inability to find their voting sta­
tion, or fear of armed gunmen. (No, the list 
isn’t exhaustive, but work with me here.) 
And we’ve all read the bumper stickers 
that proclaim, “If you don’t vote, you can’t 
complain.” Well, I say, watch me.
I didn’t vote in the national elections 
because I am a registered Florida voter 
and, living in Pennsylvania, I didn’t think 
I was knowledgable enough to cast a bal­
lot. After politician spawn Jeb Bush won 
the governor’s seat - defeating the equally 
unpalatable “Buddy” McKay - and 32.9 
percent of Florida voters voted that they 
did NOT want to declare men and women 
equal under the law, I’m glad to have 
refused to take part in Florida’s political 
system and am changing my residency 
to California.
Cory Shopper/Tartan Art Staff
But after all, it probably didn’t matter 
that I didn’t vote: One ballot in the nation’s 
fourth most populous state wouldn’t 
have amounted to anything, anyway. As 
a contrast, take CMU’s Student Senate 
elections, where one vote countsfor 
approximately 33 percent of the total 
vote, if recent election results are any 
indication.
Student Senate elections two weeks ago 
were a fiasco. I would consider myself 
fairly knowledgeable about what’s hap­
pening on campus, and I hadn’t the foggi­
est idea that elections were even being 
held, much less who was running or 
where I could vote. Any campus-wide ad­
vertising efforts utterly escaped me. As 
an RA, I received no poster in my mailbox 
and saw nothing in the halls of Baker 
or Scaife.
Perhaps I’m just oblivious, but based on 
abominably low voter turnout rates — 
only 13 percent of undergrads turned out 
— I’d guess that plenty of other students 
were unaware that elections were hap­
pening. I would have even welcomed some 
nasty mudslinging spam from the candi­
dates, just to let me know that they were 
actually campaigning for office instead of 
putting their names on the ballot and 
winning their seats because they received 
eight votes.
Student Senate is not a powerful organi­
zation on this campus. Although it has 
accomplished several useful student- 
friendly projects in the past few years, it 
lacks the clout to stand up to the adminis­
tration in important matters. For example, 
the CMU administration — in the face of 
opposition from the students on the Vice 
Presidential Student Advisory Council — 
decided this semester to make OLR acces­
sible during registration week in randomly- 
assigned time slots. Even if we give the 
administration the benefit of the doubt 
and agree that they’re either too poor or 
too lazy to rent out a week of computing 
power on a Cray supercomputer, that 
still doesn’t explain their hairbrained 
decision to make the timeslots overlap 
class times.
This Senate election could have been a 
major opportunity for students to elect 
Senators that focus on wresting a few 
considerate decisions out of the adminis­
tration. But it got lost amidst the movie 
posters and “For Sale” flyers that dot cam­
pus billboards. As Ann Landers would 
say, 40 lashes with a wet noodle to stu­
dents for not voting, and about a million 
lashes to Senate and the candidates for 
not washing the campus in a blitzkrieg of 
pro-vOting propaganda.
We might need several noodles.
Ellen Beidner is a junior professional 
writing major and Tartan Contributing 
Editor who has vowed to commit hari-kari 
if she ever goes into politics.
America must protect itself from intergalactic invaders
ALIENS, from page 4
mess because their “top-of-the- 
line” weaponry was easily de­
flected by the standard-issue en­
ergy shields of the alien infantry.. 
A frightful, insectoid invader 
wielding powerful energy can­
nons capable of searing flesh in a 
blinding bolt of hyperluminecent 
lightning. And they’ll do so, wad­
ing through our vaunted crack 
troops like so many vaporized 
paper dolls. Then they’ll advance 
on our cities, our people, wiping
us out in a bloody massacre 
despite our being the “best­
armed country on the planet.” 
Remember those ships in the 
movie ID4? Nothing could pen­
etrate their .energy shield. Do 
we put funding into developing 
that sort of shield? No. We don’t 
even put armor on our attack 
craft. One missile is all it takes 
to bring us down, like a mere 
TIE fighter, while the aliens 
have energy shields capable of 
withstanding a nuclear blast.
Still laughing now? We need 
anti-matter projectiles, gravitic 
propulsion, ionized plasma can­
nons — the stuff with which 
we shall forge ahead into the 
21st century!
What’s NASA up to these days? 
Sending that old codger John 
Glenn into space? Building a 
space station? Did you know that 
the space station has not a single 
high-powered weapon in its de­
sign? No protection, no shielding 
at all! What kind of an advance
outpost is that? What’ll happen 
when it’s set upon by mantis­
like alien troops, infestingit with 
their vile hive queen and mak­
ing it their base of operations? 
Are our astro-troops going up 
there equipped with plasma 
rifles? No. Just how long do you 
think they’ll last when the shit 
hits the fan?
Write to your representative 
today and tell them you won’t 
stand for mollycoddling of the 
alien threat. Not thinking about
it doesn’t mean it’ll go away. Tell 
them that you don’t want the brains 
of your loved ones blown open by the 
searing laser beam of alien attack­
ers because no one cared enough to 
develop an energy shield! Tell them 
to put weapons on that space sta­
tion and send up some plasma rifles. 
You won’t regret it when the inva­
sion starts.
Yishan Wong says it doesn’t mat­
ter who you voted for. Either way, 
your planet is doomed! DOOMED!
A PERSON’S
Adam Kosowsky 
IM
Senior
Erica Yamada/Tartan Photo Staff 
Sarah Sahni 
Cognitive Science 
Sophomore
“I’m a senior — I go first 
anyway.”
“I still haven’t figured out 
anything about it.”
The recent announcement 
that Online Registration slots 
will be assigned by lottery 
has sparked more discussion 
on campus than anything 
since they tried to move our 
spring break on us last year. 
So we asked: What do you 
think of the lottery plan?
Compiled by 
Neil Guzy & Erica Yamada
Merideth Veysey
Music
Sophomore
“I think it’s a good way to 
reduce the stress of registra­
tion.”
Nathan Geisinger
ECE
Junior
“Before, we were getting 
screwed randomly — now, 
we’re getting screwed arbi­
trarily.”
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 1906
Editor-in-Chief.... Becky A. Cowser
Managing Editor..................Ena Khan
Business Manager... Norman Mok
News Editor............Nathan Steinwald
Forum Editor........Rebecca Fribush
Sports Editor.......................Brian Smith
Features Editor...........Kevin Babbitt
Diversions Editor.................Anne Ray
Calendar Editor.......Kevin AuYoung
Dossier Design Editor.................Matt
Tragesser
Dossier Literary Editor.......Marshall
Warfield
Art Editor.................James Mojonnier
Photo Editor...............Anthony Chao
Production Manager..William Holtz
Advertising Manager.......Kevin Fine
Webmaster.................Charles Ballowe
Systems Manager.... Craig Soules 
Copy Manager..Helena Mcgahagan 
Asst. News Editor ..Ish Harshawat
Asst. Forum Editor.............Lorelei Laird
Asst.Features Editor.......Gregory Nofi
Asst. Diversions Editor.............LaRita
Hamilton
Asst. Dossier Design Editor.......Lee-
Anne Stossell 
Asst. Dossier Literary Editor...Jane 
Liddle
Asst. Production Manager....Derek 
Greentree
Darkroom Mgr................................Lisette
Miller-Dixon
Personnel Manager.. Seth Mandel
Contributing Editors 
Mark Adato, Ellen Beidner, Jennifer 
Garcia de Osuna, Stephen Hsu, 
Tracy Odell, Amit Sheth
Staffwriters 
Abhay Agrawal, Elaine Boland, Dash 
Boyer-Olsen, Matt Brun, Michelle 
Chao, Cliff Chien, Justin Cina, Jimmy 
Clutter, Rhys Conlon, Dave Elman, 
Ben Farahpour, Clinton Field, Nick 
Fox-Gieg, Andrew Francis, Sriram 
Gollapalli, Lisa Hankin, Rob Jefferson, 
Katie Kowall, Emily Landes, David 
Liber, Katie Martinez, Melissa 
McMahon, Trevor Meyerowitz, 
Maureen McGranaghan, Bhumika 
Muchhala, Susan Murray, Jonathan 
Pearce, Jaya Saxena, Reena Singhal, 
Jennifer Terry, Rich Torio, Yishan 
Wong
Art
Nell Babra, Matthew Blum, 
Cortland Shopper, Mohd Zekri
Ismail
Comics
Joseph Hocking, Chris Rugen
Photo 
Stacey Tetzlaff
Darkroom 
Cassandra Knight, Susan Leu, Wil­
liam Long, Jeany Oh, David 
Oleszkiewicz, Diana Rutherford,Amy 
Solana, Erica Yamada
Production 
Andrea Okerholm, Jennie Keith, 
RimasSvarcas, Erica Yamada, Brian 
Yeung
Copy
Stacey Becker, Christopher 
Dornfeld, David Elman, Claire 
Jaciregui, Larissa Kasian, Matthew 
McHenry, Jonathon Pearce, Jenni­
fer Terry
Business 
Michael Y. Kan, Toshi Takano
Junior Staff 
Sara Arnodio, Janu Bhagwati, Wendy 
Buffett, Cynthia Kos, Rob Cullen, 
Heather Dietrich, Anthony Dawia, 
Katie Doyle, Dave Eyvazzadeh, 
Stephen Gorbos, Rosie Jones, Eric 
Leingang, Susan Leu, Winnie Liang, 
Darby Lumber, Aseem Maheshwan, 
David Martin, Alina Mason, Josh 
McConnell, Koichiro Nakatsu, 
Trishna Palodia, Lara Panis, Trishna 
Potodia, Afuma Porter, Anwesha 
Rakshit, Adam Retchless, Lily 
Rohani, Pauwla Rumli, Betsy Scott, 
Justin Suissa, Asia Szrek, Rich Torio, 
Christina Wong, Rhys Wong, Guido 
Zarrella
The Tartan is the student newspaper of 
Carnegie Mellon University. It is a weekly 
newspaper published by students during the 
fall and spring semesters, at no cost to 
members of the University community. It is 
printed by Western Pennsylvania Printing, 
Inc. Subscriptions are available for the 
semester or academic year. The editorials 
appearing at the beginning of the opinion 
section are the official opinion of The Tartan 
editorial board. Columns and political 
cartoons are the opinions of individual 
creators. The Tartan reserves the right to 
reject or condense any column or political 
cartoon. Letters to the Editor are opinions of 
authors who are usually, but not necessarily, 
members of the University community. A 
letter intendedfor publication must be signed 
and include the writer's address and phone 
number for verification. Names may be 
withheld upon request. The Tartan requests 
that letters be no longer than 350 words. The 
Tartan reserves the right to condense or 
reject any letter. Copyright © 1998 by The 
Tartan. The Tartan editorial board reserves 
the right to withhold from publication any 
copy it deems unfit for publication. Office: 
University Center Room 314 Phone: 412/ 
268-2111. Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 
17/Camegie Mellon University/
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890 
Email: tartan@andrew.cmu.edu 
Funded in part by your Activities 
Fee. All rights reserved. Library of 
Congress ISSN#:08903107. The Tartan is a 
member of the Associated Press.

---------------------------------------------------

liOmeis
ie Mellon
glmnt
OLR lime Assignments
Frat en iym b
On-Line Registration (OLR) is an interactive, Web based system for course 
registration. It was designed to be easy to use, responsive to student and staff 
needs, and fair. So far OLR has shown to be easy to use and responsive to 
student and staff needs. However, it has not performed well when a large 
number of students are accessing the system at one time.
Weh avd is or?• pg 4gTu tgm cgns psLd•Tsn og 9•uvns•m
We expected students would spread themselves out to register during their 
assigned day. The OLR system was not designed for very large numbers of 
students to access the system at the same time at the beginning of each 
registration day. As a result many students found that the system was very 
slow or even unresponsive, resulting in the registration process taking as 
long as 3 hours or more for many students.
How Do Hse•m pweggyn crTru• og HfsrvT ILvw? P•mbgmlrTw• 
tmgl ovv•vm HTA4vT• 9•uvnsmrsvgT phns•lnD
All the schools surveyed, including Northwestern, University of Virginia 
and Penn State, either used an on-line computer registration system or a 
phone registration system. In EVERY case, these schools used time assign­
ments to regulate student access to the system.
Weh Sm• ovlvN SnnvuTl•Tsn ü•vTu il1y•l•Ts•d0%
Students should not have to log in at 6 a.m. and then take 2-3 hours to regis­
ter. Since the system is not intended to register everyone at once and the 
last 2 registration periods show the system cannot handle the demand, we 
are going to use time assignments to manage the flow of students into 
the OLR system. Getting up early in past semesters to register did not 
enhance your chances. The “line” you were in was not a line, but a Cyber 
mob scene. It was completely random whether you were the next one 
selected for processing.
How VVii i. oe• ovl• SnnvuTl•Tsn Wgm? C
Each registration day will be divided into 30-minute intervals called OLR 
start times. The first interval will begin at 6 a.m. and the last will begin at 
4:30 p.m. Based on the last 2 digits of your student id number, you will be 
initially assigned at random to an OLR start time. (You can find your start 
time on the chart below.) Your time assignment is a start time only. You may 
register any time after your start time on your registration day. There will be 
approximately 75 students assigned to each OLR start time.
If the last two digits 
of your student ID 
are between:
Your start 
time is:
If the last two digits
of your student ID Your start
are between: time is:
fmm
0004.............:.....................1.. 1 p.m.
0509......................
1014......................
1519......................
2024......................„3:30 p.m.
2529........................ 4 p.m.
3034........................ 4:30 p.m.
3539........................ 6 a.m.
4044..................;..... 6:30 a.m.
4549....:........................ 7 a.m.
5054......................7:30 a.m.
55
6064.....
6569.....
7074.....
7579.:....
8084.....
8589.................... 11:30 a.m.
9094......................12 p.m.
9599.......................12:30 p.m.
Wers Sfgvs M•Us p•l•ns•mD WvvCvC ch ovl• SnnvuTl•Ts il1mgF•D
Yes, you are guaranteed an earlier start time next semester unless your start 
time this semester is already among the earliest 6-8 a.m. In the interest of 
fairness, your OLR start time will shift every semester to an earlier time block. 
Time assignments move through the following pattern each semester: If your 
OLR time assignment this semester is :
This semesterNext semester
2:30 - 4:30 p.m.11:30 a.tn. -1:30 p.m.
11:30-1:30 p.m.8:30- 10:30 a.m.
8:30 -10:30 a.m.m6 - 8 a.m.
6 - 8 a.m.¦»2:30 - 4:30 p.m.
Wers in oe• P•mbgmlrTw• VU1•ws•d og ü•D
If you come prepared (having met with your adviser and planned your 
schedule with alternatives for elective courses) you can expect 10-20 min­
utes to register.
Access To Courses
What ag i M••d og ag og ,•s oe• OgLmn•n i M••di
For my primary major.
• Communicate with your academic advisor to confirm the courses you need.
• Access Course Information Online (CIO) at the Hub’s Web site to check
available section status and to check course prerequisites.
What OLR does to help:
• The reservation process is used to reserve seats for you in your primary
major courses.
• Students with exceptional needs can continue to have these needs reviewed
by their deparment.
For the elective courses I want?
Registration for courses outside of your primary major is not only possible, 
but it is encouraged and even required in most programs. Students choose to 
use their out of major electives in a variety of ways. To accommodate the 
many ways students choose to diversify their academic programs, priority in 
registering for courses outside of your primary major is on a class basis, with 
seniors having the greatest priority. This is in no way an attempt to limit how 
students choose to build or to enrich their academic programs. It is, rather, a 
process that recognizes students use different methods to achieve 
academic diversity and ensures equal and fair access to courses. If you do not 
get in your desired course and you are offered the waitlist, take it. Academic 
departments review the waitlists, and where they can, offer additional 
sections to accommodate unexpected demand.
While no university can guarantee access for all students to all courses in 
every semester, Carnegie Mellon ensures access for responsible students over 
their academic career to courses they need to graduate on time.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 9 November 19987Hockey team suffers loss to league leaderFootball looks to close out season with home victory
HOCKEY, from page 10
In the third period, Carnegie Mellon 
^vas given seven minor penalties result­
ing in 14 minutes of power-play opportu­
nity for Edinboro. Good defensive play 
by the Tartans and outstanding 
goaltending by Min kept the game tied 
until 15:48.
Edinboro was finally able to score a 
power-play goal when a shot hit the 
crossbar and bounced in. The best 
attraction of the game was watching
long. At one point the Robert Morris 
and Carnegie Mellon penalty boxes 
had a combined eight players serving 
time at once.
The game ended in a 7-1 victory for 
Robert Morris. Five of the seven goals 
were on the power-play. CMU scored 
once early in the second period.
Team captain and fifth-year senior 
Paul Voulgaris put the puck in the net 
at 2:43 with help from sophomore 
Rick Ebert.
FOOTBALL, from page 10
Mike Monsilovich and Mike Campie com­
bined to run over the Juniata defense, 
and Campie pushed the ball into the end 
zone with 3:36 left in the first quarter. 
The extra point made it 7-0 CMU.
Juniata did not take long to retaliate. 
They took the kick and drove to the 
Carnegie Mellon 10-yard line, first and 
goal. The Tartan defense held strong and 
junior Christopher Martinez broke up two 
identical pass plays to the comer of the 
end zone. The Eagles came back on third 
down with the same play to the other side 
of the end zone, this time for a touchdown, 
and the extra point tied the score.
Like the offensive battle that the game 
was predicted to be, Carnegie Mellon 
answered in the second quarter. A pass 
from junior quarterback Russ Clay to 
senior wide receiver Chris Barnicle set 
up a Monsilovich touchdown run and 
the score went to 14—7.
Despite giving up good field position 
on the ensuing kickoff, the Tartans were 
able to force a Juniata punt on the next 
possession, and the offense took over on 
their own 15 with under five minutes 
left in the half.
The Tartans marched down the field, 
highlighted by a 53-yard pass play from 
Clay to freshman wide receiver Matt 
Saneholtz, and CMU had the ball near 
the Juniata 15-yard line with two min­
utes left. However, hopes for a 14-point 
lead seemed to disappear as Monsilovich 
fumbled the ball and Juniata took over 
on its own 10-yard line.
The momentum turned back into 
CMU’s favor, though, as junior defen­
sive back Tom Truxillo intercepted a 
pass seconds later and ran it into the end 
zone, and the Tartans went into half- 
time with a 21-7 lead.
The name of the game in the second 
half for CMU was time of possession. It 
had to keep the Juniata offense off the 
field for as long as possible.
Juniata was driving late in the third 
quarter when senior safety Jason Funke 
picked off a pass near the Carnegie
Mellon goal line, and the score remained 
21-7 after three quarters.
The CMU offense took the ball early in 
the fourth quarter and began to drive 
and eat time off the clock. After the 
Tartan rushing game faltered, a great 
catch by Barnicle on a Clay pass and a 
defensive pass interference call on 
Juniata put the Tartans at the Eagles’ 
25-yard line. Monsilovich took over, with 
a number of darting runs up the middle 
of the Juniata defense, eventually scor­
ing to put the Tartans up 28-7.
“Our offensive line is starting to come 
together as a unit,” said Lackner.
Juniata was not about to quit, how­
ever, and took the ball with nine min­
utes left in the game. After a long 
drive, including two fourth-down con­
versions, Juniata was poised to score 
on first and goal from the CMU 9-yard 
line. Truxillo broke up an Eagle pass 
on second down, and Nwanko recorded 
a sack on third, bringing up fourth an 
goal. An incomplete pass on fourth 
down turned the ball over to the Tar­
tans with 3:04 left in the game, sealing 
a 28-7 Tartan win.
The Tartans’ final home game is next 
weekend versus Thomas Moore College.
Ko Nakatsu/Tartan Photo Staff The Tartans will travel to Penn State East and Pitt-Johnstown this weekend.
the Edinboro team’s reaction to the 
winning goal. Judging from the heaps 
of players forming on the ice one would 
think they had just won the state 
championships. Regardless, the game 
ended uneventfully with the final score 
of 4-3.
Last Saturday night, the Tartans faced 
league-leader Robert Morris College at 
. Neville Ice Arena in the South Side. The 
game looked promising but transformed 
into a virtual bloodbath. Penalty time 
served by both teams collectively added 
up to 121 minutes. This is ridiculous 
considering a game is only 51 minutes
This was an extremely tense game 
as ill feelings between players were 
shown through numerous boarding, 
roughing, cross checking, and kicking 
penalties. Robert Morris’ tendency to 
throw checks behind the play angered 
the CMU player, and the game ended 
tensely and uncomfortably with the 
7-1 finish.
The Tartan hockey club takes 
record on the road this weekend for 
two games. They play at Penn State 
East on Saturday and travel 
to the University of Pittsburgh- 
Johnstown Sunday.
Anthony D’Auria/Tartan Photo Staff First-year student wide receiver Matt Saneholtz pulls away from Juniata defenders.
y\JJ>
ill about something? ® about something? Gotan~3>5f?
sfou ighw ciph allddd
"WOTDiscuss QLR, the Morewood Basement, and other campus issues
lrida| Hombm 11 at noon i londai November IS at ?|m
University Center Connan Room
lZza will be served
3
T><u
èVu
•v
c
«
a
£>VI
a
?>!
to
2
Co
to
to
ato
¿2«to
5oto
v0
01 C O
-CÌ
£to*3¡5-£«
%a
3
Oè

---------------------------------------------------

Æ
Would you pay 
$42 for a cup of coffee?
Probably not. So why pay 
higher auto insurance rates 
just because you 're a student? 
If you ’re a responsible driver, 
InsureDirect can help.
With InsureDirect 
you could save 
up to 25% or more.
InsureDirect is the better way to get 
your car insurance. We keep our 
rates low by insuring safer drivers - 
whether they’re students or not. And 
you deal directly with us - there’s 
no middleman commission to pay.
Your rates could be 
even lower if you qualify 
for these discounts.
• College Graduate - A special 
discount saves 4 year college 
graduates money on premiums
• Good Student - Is your GPA 3.0 or 
better? If so, you could save more
• Safe Vehicle - Depending upon 
the model and year of your car, 
you could save more
• Find out about even more 
discounts when you request your 
free quote
Plus, InsureDirect 
gives you advantages 
other companies don’t.
. • Your low rates are 'locked-in' for 
a full 12 months
• 100% first year replacement 
cost on new model year cars - 
no extra charge
• 24 hour customer service and 
claims acccssability
InsureDirect
The only way to find out if you 
qualify for car insurance rates 
at savings up to 25% 
is to call InsureDirect now. 
Toll-Free 1-800-826-3300. ext. 37
Save $50! - Request your free quote 
over the web at www.insuredirect.com
.Underwriting Companies: Reliance Insurance Company. Reliance Insurance company of Illinois. Rcliance Direct Insurance Company. Reliance National 
Indemnity Company. Reliance National Insurance Company. Reliance Reinsurance Company. Reliance Surety Company. United Pacific Insurance Company.
insure Direct products, features and programs not available in 
all states, and the availability ol' discounts may vary by state.Keycode: 8DEEAC
ahello."
INFORMATION SESSION 
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 27
7:00 PM
WEAN HALL, ROOM 7500
WE WANTED TO GET A HEAD START 
ON INTRODUCING OURSELVES AT 
THE INFORMATION SESSION.
Trilogy was founded by five college students in 1989. Today the company has grown to more than 
500 employees by hiring graduates from the best schools in the country. We're revolutionizing the 
way products are bought and sold for Fortune 500 companies such as Hewlett-Packard, Chrysler, 
Boeing, AT&T and Ernest and Julio Gallo.
We are looking for top candidates to join our re-engineering revolution. Candidates should be 
extremely aggressive and creative. Strong communication and presentation skills are required along 
with the desire for continuous development. We are looking for bright and talented people with var­
ied backgrounds. Only the best need apply. For more information, check out our website at www.tril- 
ogy.com.
For more information about Trilogy or this event, please contact tanna.oldfield@trilogy.com or call 
directly at 512.685.3801.
INFORMATION SESSION 
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28
7:00 PM
SCAIFE HALL, ROOM 125
TRILOGY
6034 West Courtyard Drive 
Austin, Texas 78730 USA
t 512.425.3400 
/ 512.685.3960 
e recruiting@trilogy.com
wvw.trilogy.com/recruiting
Trilogy ii in cquil opportunity eraployn

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 9 November 19989Home team squanders easy game after big win
The Steelers’ Corner
by Rich Torio
Last week’s 31-41 loss to the 
Tennessee Oilers was pathetic, 
but it was nothing more than a 
classic let-down game. Coming off 
the big Monday night win at Kan­
sas City, and looking forward to 
another Monday night game 
against Green Bay, last week’s 
game against the Oilers could eas­
ily have been looked past as a 
cinch. It was the Tennessee pre­
tenders sandwiched between 
two Super Bowl contenders. 
The Steelers just didn’t show 
up to play.
As horrible as last week’s game 
was, I think it was a wake-up call 
for the Steelers. They went into 
the game as a mediocre team with 
a 5-2 record, and they got beaten 
in their own backyard in every
facet of the game 
by a worse Oilers 
team. Eddie George 
ran over our de­
fense for 70 yards 
... in the Oilers’ first 
possession. It was 
a sickening game to 
watch, but don’t 
think that it will 
happen again.
Maybe the loss to 
the Oilers was just 
what Pittsburgh 
needed. The Steel­
ers’ intimidating 
defense maybe 
thought they were 
invincible, but 
they are not. The 
Steel-ers’ punish­
ing running game maybe 
thought it was unstoppable, but 
it is not. And talented Kordell 
Stewart maybe thought his job 
was completely secure, but it is 
not. If anything, Pittsburgh is 
lucky to have a 5-3 record right 
now, so there is no room for 
complacence on this team.
That’s what I chalk last week’s 
loss to: complacence. The Steelers
simply thought that they were 
better than the Oilers, and they 
found out that they weren’t. The 
fact of the matter is that the 
Steelers can lose to any team in 
the league. They have over­
achieved to get the record that 
they have, and they let up last 
week and got spanked. But the 
Steelers have also shown earlier 
this season that they can play
James Mojonnler/Tartan Art EditO' 
with any team in the league as 
well, if they show up to play. Bill 
Cowher is an excellent head 
coach. I do not think that the 
Steelers will be complacent for 
another game this year.
Despite the Steelers’ atrocious 
defense, and the non-existent run­
ning game, there were some good 
things that happened against 
Tennessee. Strangely enough, in
the only game that 
Stewart was pulled 
from this year, it was 
perhaps his best per­
formance. He com­
pleted 23 of 32 
passes for 230 yards, 
two touchdowns, 
and three intercep­
tions. For most quar­
terbacks, that is a 
solid day.
The Pittsburgh 
passing game was 
finally clicking, 
which bodes well for 
the weeks to come. 
Last week’s game 
was a fluke, and it’s 
not going to happen 
against the Packers 
this Monday night. It is kind of 
hard to look past the Pack. 
Post-game Prognostication: (3-1) 
Steelers 13 - Packers 17 
The Steelers will hold their own 
against a great Green Bay team, 
but they will just fall short. The 
defense bounces back, and the 
offense is solid, but I think that 
anything more than a moral vic­
tory is unlikely.Crew club closes out fail season downtown
CREW, from page 10
of last week’s standings. Richards, who 
rowed in the men’s championship four- 
person boat said, “It was my best race 
ever. It was my last head race before I 
graduate, and I was very happy with 
my performance. It was a great way to 
finish off the season.”
Junior Erin Tocknell explained that 
the boat she was in at the Head of the 
Occoquan managed to pass a boat that
“We have a lot of equipment 
failures and sometimes just bad 
luck in general. We need more 
funding for better equipment
— freshman Steve Muckle
was ahead of them. The boats started in 
a staggered start, which makes it that 
much harder to pass a boat in front of 
you. The experience was so intense 
that Tocknell even growled at the boat 
next to'them as they passed. “I guess it 
was just my adrenaline punch for the 
race,” she said.
The men’s eight-man boat was irri­
tated at their fourth place finish in the 
CarDuPitt. During the final stretch of 
the race, a shoe broke off the boat and 
a seat became dislodged from the boat. 
Junior Rande Sherun explained that 
CMU’s boat was doing very well until 
the shoe fell off.
Freshman Steve Muckle was also irri­
tated with the situation. “We have a lot 
of equipment failures and sometimes 
just bad luck in 
general,” he said. 
“We need more 
funding for better 
equipment.” 
John Pui, a 
freshman cox­
swain from the 
novice-B boat, was
_________________ flying high from
the season. “As a 
coxswain, I achieved two of my goals. The 
first was that we passed a boat in a race, 
and the other was that we pushed the A 
boat a lot and beat them in a race.” 
Coming off of a great fall season, there 
seems to be nothing holding them back 
from excellence except the poor state of 
their equipment.
Swim team prepares for 
first home meet of year
SWIMMING, from page 10
ence in an extended dual meet.” Since 
regular-season meetings have no bear­
ing on the league championships, this 
meet is more of a chance to see where 
the teams stand in the league than a 
crucial fight for league wins. “We’re 
looking to go against some good com­
petition and compete well. This meet 
will be a benchmark of where we are in 
the league and lets us compete against 
Johns Hopkins and Emory, our big­
gest league rivals,” Belowich said.
Want to escape 
those winter blues?
The meet will also be important as 
the teams finally get to play host 
after opening the season with three 
away meets. While it will be nice to be 
home, the long road trips have helped 
bring the team together, according to 
Belowich. “We’re doing a really nice 
job of "both swimming fast and build­
ing team chemistry, and that comes 
from traveling together as much as 
we have,” said Belowic. “We’re right 
where we wanted to be at this point in 
the season.”
Sports Shorts•••
Safety receives 
academic award
Senior Jason Funke was recently 
awarded Division III College Football 
Scholar Athlete of the Week. The 
award, given by the Burger King Cor­
poration, was in honor of Funke’s out­
standing athletic and academic 
achievements and his commitment to 
mentoring the community’s youth, ac­
cording to a press release.
Funke, who is starting safety and punt 
returner for the Tartans, is a business 
administration and economics double ma­
jor, with a 3.94 QPA. In addition, he is a 
volunteer for the Western Pennsylvania 
Special Olympics and a member of the 
CMU Athletic Advisory Committee and 
the Carnegie Mellon Leadership Institute.
Brian Smith/Tartan SportsEditor 
Burger King will donate $10,000 in senior Jason Funke’s name to CMU's general scholarship fund.
“These athletes serve as outstanding role 
models of achievement in the classroom, 
on the field and in their communities,” said 
Jim Watkins, Burger King senior vice presi­
dent for North American Marketing.
Burger King will donate $10,000 to 
Carnegie Mellon’s general scholarship fund 
in Funke’s name. Funke will be presented 
with the award during halftime of the Tar­
tans’ final home game next Saturday ver­
sus Thomas Moore College.
Trio of athletes 
win UAA honors
A trio of Carnegie Mellon athletes were 
named UAA Athletes of the Week for the 
week of October 26.
Junior quarterback Russ Clay was 
named offensive football player of the week 
for his performance in the Tartans 30-21 
victory versus Washington Uni­
versity. He went 16-19 passing 
on the day, with a season-high 
214 yards and two touchdowns. 
Clay also rushed for a score late 
in the fourth quarter.
The other two Athletes of the 
Week were swimmers sopho­
more Julie Tseng and junior 
Mike Robinson. Both were hon­
ored for their races in the team’s 
debut meet at Wittenburg Uni­
versity versus Wittenburg and 
Washington University of St. 
Louis two weeks ago.
Tseng won three events, in­
cluding a win over 1998 UAA 
Women’s Swimmer of the Year 
Carrie Register. Her victories 
came in the 100-, 200-, and 500- 
yard freestyle races.
Robinson set a pool record at 
Wittenburg with first place in 
the 100-yard freestyle with a 
time of 48.36 seconds.
Compliled by 
BRIAN SMITH
Mexico City 
West Coast
$716
$379
$367
$691
Fare* are JTCCto not inUode taxes. 
Restriction» applyAre subject to chanjc.
CIEE: Council on International Educational Exchange
118 Meyran Ave. 
Pittsburgh j
www.counci «.travel .com •
This ain’t your parents’ travel agency.
With our staff of experienced travelers, a global network of offices, 
great prices, ticket flexibility and a ton of travel services, we know 
firsthand what it takes to put together a mind-blowing trip...
.just remember to thank mom 
for packing your suitcase.
classified
WANTED
Would you like to take part in a 
miracle? Healthy women between the 
ages of 21-34 needed to assist infertile 
couples. Compensation for time, 
travel, and inconvenience will be 
provided. Private office located in the 
North Hills of Pittsburgh. If interested, 
please call (724) 934-7777 or (800) 
435-7820.
TRAVEL
Spring Break Cancún, Florida,. Etc.
Best Hotels, Parties, Prices. Earn Cash + 
Free Trips. Reps/Organizations Wanted 
Inter-Campus Programs 1-800-327- 
06013 www.icpt.com
Low student and faculty fares to 
international destinations. Good 
domestic fares, AYH and Eurail passes. 9- 
5 M-F. 4609 Winthrop Street, off South 
Craig. Forum Travel 681-4099
Starving students short on cash? Earn a 
free trip for spring break 99' by selling 
trips to friends and other students. For 
details call Mike at (412) 621-3369 or 
email: MABCT5@pitt.edu.
Spring Break 991 Cancún * Nassau * 
Jamaica * Mazatlan * Acapulco * Bahamas 
Cruise * Florida * South Padre. Travel 
Free and make lots of Cash! Top reps are 
offered full-time staff jobs. Lowest price 
Guaranteed. Call now for details! 
www.classtravel.com (800) 838-6411
Intranun
November 9,1998
Administration
Intramural Director —
Mike Mastroianni X8-2214 
Assistant Intramural Director 
— Mike Grzywinski X8-2214 
Intramural Secretary —
Amy Kiryk X8-2053 
Intramural President —
Jeff Poore X2-3913 
Women’s President —
Andrea Nellis X2-2611 Important Dates 
Tues. Nov. 10— IM Board 
Meeting 11:30am in the Gym 
Conference room 
Tues. Nov. 10 — Volleyball 
Playoffs begin 
Wed. Nov. 11 — Soccer 
Playoffs begin 
Mon. Nov. 16 — 3 Person 
Volleyball season begins Sports In Season 
Volleyball — The season is 
under way at the University 
Center gym. Games run 
Monday through Thursday 
evenings. Playoffs will begin 
Tuesday. Check the IM Office 
for times beginning 9 am on 
Tuesday.
Soccer— One hundred 
teams are in action at the IM 
and Stadium fields. Games 
run Monday through Thursday 
evenings and Sunday after­
noons. Please stay off the 
fields during varsity practices. 
Also, please follow the IM 
staff directions on moving 
nets on the Stadium fields. 
Playoffs will begin Wednes­
day. Call the IM Office for 
times starting at 9 am 
Wednesday.
Racquetball — The matches 
are being played Monday 
through Thursday evenings at 
the UC courts. Please report 
scores to the IM Office.
Water Polo — Games are 
played Monday and Wednes­
day evenings at the UC Pool. 
Playoffs will be Nov. 18 and 
23.
Bowling— Matches are being 
played at the PAA In Oakland 
on Sunday afternoons. Please 
report scores to the IM Office. 
Foosball, Darts, Team Table 
Tennis, Chess, Team Call 
Pool — Seasons are now 
under way. Please play all 
matches as scheduled and 
report scores to the IM Office. 
Results not reported will be 
considered double forfeits. 
Bridge and Backgammon — 
Schedules are out. Please 
play all matches as sched­
uled and report scores to the 
IM Office.Sports Upcoming 
3 Person Volleyball — 
Schedules are available In 
the IM Office. The games will 
begin Monday Nov. 16 in the 
UC Gym.Majors Soccer Rankings
1. Tequila Effect
2. Real Mellon
3. SAE Wild Kingdom
Classified Rates
1-20 words.............Î10.00/wk
21-50 words............$12.00/wk
51-100 words.......$15.00/wk
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Box 17 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
•Classifieds must be paid In cash or 
check before first run date
•On-campus departments and 
organizations may pay by journal 
transfer
• Due by 5 pm the Thursday before 
publication
(800) 777-0112
BOOK YOUR TICKETS ON-LINE! www.statravel.comTHE TARTAN 
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

Sports this week...
HOME GAMES IN CAPS
Football
Nov. 14, THOMAS MOORE COLLEGE, 1 pm
Cross Country
Nov. 14, Regional Championships
Swimming
Nov. 14, JOHNS HOPKINS, EMORY, NYU
Men’s Soccer
East Coast Athletic Conference Tournament
Hockey
Nov. 13, Penn State East 
Nov. 14, University of Pittsburgh-Johnstown
Pulling away from the crowd...
Anthony Chao/Tartan Photo Editor The CMU field hockey club hosted a tournament of local colleges last Sunday.
Novice rowers take on local opponents
By KATIE KOWALL
Tartan Staffwriter
Plagued with equipment failures but 
filled with hope, the Carnegie Mellon 
crew team completed its fall 1998 sea­
son last Saturday with strong finishes 
in the CarDuPitt regatta, downtown on 
the Allegheny River.
This novice race, which included teams 
from Carnegie Mellon as well as the 
University of Pittsburgh, Duquesne Uni­
versity, Robert Morris College, and 
Mercyhurst College, provided the team 
with a chance to compete with other 
local novice teams in an event that con-
cluded the season well. “Everyone told 
me that the CarDuPitt was great and it 
was,” said freshman Aria Thomases.
Freshman Sue Yeh, who is also a nov­
ice rower, explained that the CarDuPitt 
is a sprint race, which means that the 
race is two kilometers instead of five, 
like a head race. “The sprint is more 
exciting, because the boats line up next 
to one another, unlike in a head where 
the boats race one at a time and then 
their times are compared.” Of her first 
few months on crew Yeh said: “It’s dif­
ferent from the way CMU is academi­
cally. It de-stresses your life and makes 
you more relaxed.”
The varsity crew team came to sup­
port their younger teammates, energized 
from placing well in the Head of the 
Occoquan Regatta last weekend in Vir­
ginia. The men’s championship boat won 
third. On top of that, the women’s cham­
pionship boats were awarded fourth and 
ninth places, and junior Ryuji Kusumoto 
and sophomore Neil Stroup won the gold 
in the men’s lightweight double. “We all 
had great races,” said graduate student 
Susan Lawrence. “That is why we row, 
to row like that.”
Senior Martin Richards, who has been 
rowing for three years, was very proud 
Please see CREW, page 9
Swimmers travel to Rochester
By MATT BRUN
Tartan Staffwriter
After cruising to matching 
2-0 records in their double-dual 
meets on October 31, the men’s 
and women’s swim teams got to 
kick back a little last week as 
they took a quick break from 
regular competition.
Last Saturday, the _____
teams traveled to the 
University of Rochester 
for the annual Roches­
ter Relays, a rather un­
conventional meet with 
no individual events, ¡¡¡¡¡¡j 
just relays. “It was just 
a really fun meet for every­
body,” head coach David 
Belowich said. As well as run­
ning the standard relays found 
in any swim meet, a relay meet 
takes all of the traditionally 
individual events and converts 
them into relays. Some of the 
more unusual events include 
the 8x200-yard freestyle, where 
each participant swims a mere
demanding as if they were going 
into an important dual meet. “In 
past years this had usually been 
our first meet, so we took a slightly 
different approach,” Belowich 
said. “But it was our third compe­
tition this year, so we didn’t do 
anything different other than tim­
ing the starts for the non-stan­
dard relays.”
“It was just a really fun 
meet for everybody. ”
— coach David Belowich
Perhaps as a result of not eas­
ing up in their preparations, both 
teams turned in outstanding per­
formances Saturday. The men’s 
team won nine out of the 11 events 
on its way to its third consecutive 
first-place trophy, and set a new 
meet record in the 3xl00-yard 
backstroke. The team comprised 
of junior Mike Onofray, sopho­
more Mike Snow, and freshman 
25 yard sprint, and the diving Sean Belowich clocked in at a
relay, in which teams are 
ranked by a combination of the 
divers’ scores.
Despite the unique nature of 
the meet and the looser nature of 
the competition, the team’s prepa­
rations were just as intense and
time of2:48.46, breaking a record 
that had stood for 15 years.
The women put on an equally 
impressive performance, but 
had the misfortune to be com­
peting against Ithaca College, 
which finished last season
ranked in the top 10 nation­
ally. “They [Ithaca] were just 
absolutely dominant,” Belowich 
said. The CMU women gave a 
tremendous effort, but were 
clearly outmatched, finishing 
second to Ithaca in almost ev­
ery event. The one event where 
CMU did have the upper hand 
was the 400-yard freestyle. The 
team of senior Jen 
Skully, sophomores Me­
lissa Schmelzer and 
Julie Tseng, and fresh­
man Erin Andrews gave 
the CMU women their 
¡¡¡¡¡¡¡¡¡i only first-place finish 
with a time of 3:46.36. 
The team finished second over­
all for the second straight year 
with 159 points, trailing 
Ithaca’s score of 191.
The effort both teams turned 
in thrilled coach Belowich. “I was 
very pleased with the way every­
one swam, both men and 
women,” he said.
Hopefully, the teams can con­
tinue to perform at the same 
level when they open their home 
schedule against UAA rivals 
Johns Hopkins, Emory, and 
NYU. “It should be a real inter­
esting meet,” Belowich said. 
“We’re basically looking at the 
top three teams in the confer- 
Please see SWIMMING, page 7The Tartans were able to hold the high-powered Juniata offense to one touchdown last Saturday.
Tartan Rie PhotoThe varsity and novice crew teams have finished their schedule for the fall season. The spring season starts in Feburary.
Hockey club splits weekend competitions
Football continues win streak
By BRIAN SMITH
Tartan Sports Editor
It may not have been 70 de­
grees and sunny with thousands 
of screaming fans in the stands, 
but last Saturday was a good day 
for the Tartan football team. They 
were able to battle through 50 
degree temperatures and swirl­
ing winds in Gesling Stadium to 
shut down the potent offense of 
Juniata College and pick up their 
fourth straight win.
“The guys are clicking on all 
cylinders,” said head football 
coach Rich Lackner.
Going into the game, Carnegie 
Mellon looked at the Juniata of­
fense as the main point of con­
cern. “Their quarterback threw 
for over 400 yards in a game ear­
lier this year,” said Lackner. “I 
was actually happy that it was 
chilly out there for this reason.” 
The Tartans may have received 
a little luck from the weather, 
but most of the day can be cred­
ited to tough play and good 
teamwork. The action started 
midway through the first quar­
ter, as the swarming CMU de­
fensive line, led by senior tackle 
Anima Nwanko, put pressure 
on the Juniata quarterback, 
forcing a fumble which was re­
covered by sophomore Jarod 
Winchester at the Juniata 31- 
yard line.
The Carnegie Mellon offense 
took over. Junior running backs 
Please see FOOTBALL, page 7
Grosso, assisted by senoir Steve 
Leonhardt and junior P.J. Gryzwacz.
The game continued uneventfully un­
til 11:25 when Grosso scored his second 
goal of the evening by working the puck 
through traffic in front of the net. 
Edinboro replied with a goal of their own 
at 12:50, and the period ended with an 
Edinboro breakaway which was cleanly 
stopped by junior goaltender Gil Min.
Second period play again displayed 
rough checking and aggressive skating. 
Carnegie Mellon scored the first goal of 
the period at 12:48. This goal, which was 
one of the more beautiful goals of the 
season, occurred when junior Steve 
Woods passed the puck across the goal 
crease and was one-timed in the net by 
graduate student Roger Maddalena. 
However, Edinboro scored at 13:44 to tie 
the game.
The game was repeatedly delayed and 
interrupted by difficulties with the 
scoreboard. Three Edinboro cheerleaders 
entrusted with the running of the 
scoreboard did put forth a valiant effort 
despite the fact that none of them were up 
to the challenge of handling such a high 
tech piece of equipment. This led to diffi­
culties with posting penalties andresulted 
in frequent confusion and game delays.
Please see HOCKEY, page 7
Ko Nakatsu/Tartan Photo Staff Despite fancy moves, the Tartans lost to Robert IVIorris College 7-1 last Saturday.
By ERIN LUCAS
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Last Friday night Edinboro Univer­
sity hosted the Carnegie Mellon Tartans 
at the Igloo Ice Arena in Erie, Pennsyl­
vania. The game began with extremely 
aggressive checking by the enormously 
large Edinboro team. The hard hitting
occurred repeatedly and regardless of 
where the play was located.
The Tartans, perhaps a bit disillu­
sioned by the fact that they were playing 
football on ice as opposed to hockey, 
allowed an early goal at 1:24. However, 
CMU quickly adapted to the aggressive 
playing style and answered back at 2:54 
with a goal from junior forward Dan

---------------------------------------------------

Volume 93. fssue 10The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania9 November 1998
Students from abroad share stories of home
; By WENDY BUFFETT
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Not all international students are far 
away from home. They may not have 
experienced culture shock for many 
years. A few students are not even offi­
cially considered ‘international,’ yet 
they have spent the greater part of 
their lives outside the United 
States. Even though many internation­
al students are not as foreign as 
one might think, they still have 
interesting stories, comparisons, and 
insights to share.
1 Masha Nosovets, a first-year H&SS 
[undeclared student, was born in
Moscow. She is not a United States cit­
izen but has been in the States for the 
past three years to attend high school 
and college. She has not experienced a 
noticeable change in cultures since her 
sophomore year in high school, three 
years ago. “I was in a town in upstate 
New York with 7,000 people, and I had 
just come from Moscow, with millions of 
people,” she said. “My first day in high 
school was scary. All of the punks in the 
public schools really freaked me out.” 
Some international students experi­
ence a nearly seamless transition 
between their old life and being at 
CMU. First-year music major Angela 
Cheng is originally from Taiwan, but
her family immigrated to Canada when 
she was 10 years old. “My parents 
wanted a better education for me,” she 
said. Her transition from Canada to 
Pittsburgh was almost non-existent, 
similar to that of students from out of 
state. “I don’t really feel like an inter­
national student. I emigrated a long 
time ago, eight years at least, so I’m 
pretty used to the culture and society 
and everything.”
Hannah Sypher, a first-year cognitive 
science major, is not technically an 
international student, although she 
has spent more time out of the country 
than in it. She was born in Vermont, 
but has spent most of her life in
Bahrain, Qatar, and Saudi Arabia. 
Since Sypher visited the States every 
summer, her transition was not as dif­
ficult as some students who come here 
for the first time. “It’s not like I’m com­
pletely isolated from western culture or 
anything. It’s just that part of my life 
happens to be in the Middle East.”
For many international students, the 
hardest part of life at CMU is being dis­
tanced from home and family. Nosovets 
notices things that students nearer to 
their homes may never consider. “My 
views change on everything. When I go 
home, my friend and I start contradict­
ing each other. My family thinks that 
I’m still the same person as when I left,
when I was 15, and I’m obviously not 
the same person. It’s hard for them to 
understand that,” she said.
Sypher also has difficulties coping 
with the distance separating her from 
her family. “Not having my parents on 
the same continent is not very fun. Not 
to mention the phone bills. It’s some­
thing like $1.12 a minute to call them, 
which is really awful,” she said.
Since Cheng’s family is nearby, she 
does not have the distance problem that 
many international students encounter. 
“My brother comes to visit every week­
end, so I’m not really separated from my 
family that much,” she said.
Please see STUDENTS, page L3
Cultural organizations Administrative offices promote connections facilitate move to U.S.
all art this page by James Mojonnler/Tartan Art Editor
mold
By JENNIFER TERRY
Tartan Staffwriter
Unless you usually walk 
across campus with your eyes 
closed, you’ve probably noticed 
that this is a pretty culturally 
diverse campus, with events 
such as the Lunar Gala, movies 
like Dil Se showing in 
McConomy Auditorium, and 
the annual International Food 
Festival. Rarely does a week go 
by when one of CMU’s many 
cultural student organizations 
isn’t offering a program to the 
campus community.
Some of these organizations, 
like the Hong Kong Students 
Association (HKSA), are com­
posed primarily of internation­
al students interested in main­
taining cultural contact with 
their countries of origin. 
According to Vivienne Lai, pres­
ident of HKSA and a junior 
business administration major, 
about two-thirds of the 100 stu­
dents involved in HKSA are 
from Hong Kong, with most of 
the rest being ethnically 
Chinese in origin.
“Basically, our objective is to 
promote Chinese awareness ... 
to make a home away from 
home [for students from Hong 
Kong],” he said. “[The club] usu­
ally [doejsj. something related to 
the culture of Hong Kong. Each 
toorith we show two movies from 
Hong Kong.” They also celebrate 
most of the Chinese festivals, 
and like all of the Asian student
organizations on campus, they 
participate in the Lunar Gala 
honoring the Chinese New Year.
The Taiwanese Student 
Association (TSA) has slightly 
different aims. Although still 
very committed to activités 
related to Chinese culture, the 
group is made up of mostly 
‘Americanized’ Asian students, 
according to Jay Huang, the 
president of TSA and a junior 
math major.
“We’re a social and cultural 
group,” said Huang. “A lot of 
[students] come to TSA to find 
people they can associate with 
who speak their language. We 
throw events to try to 
bring people together.”
These events 
include every­
thing from paint- 
balling to parties 
to organizing the 
International 
Food Festival held 
last year. “We invited 
every international 
group to come to the UC 
and sell [ethnic food],” said 
Huang. They were expecting a 
fairly small event, but accord­
ing to Huang, “It just blew up. 
Around 300 people showed up, 
and everyone sold out in about 
an hour.”
The organization does not 
limit itself to Taiwanese stu­
dents, however. “TSA’s goal is to 
try to bring everyone in,” said 
Huang. “We’re very diverse and 
proud of it.”
Mayur is a group of graduate 
and undergraduate students 
interested in the culture of the 
Indian subcontinent. According 
to Kush Tyagi, a junior electri­
cal and computer engineering 
major and one of Mayur’s offi­
cers, Mayur has been more 
social than cultural for the past 
couple of years. “But this year, 
we’re changing that. We’re get­
ting more involved in the cul­
tural aspect,” said T^agi.
To do this, they will be 
sponsoring an Indian cul­
tural show on campus 
November 20.
By SETH MANDEL
Tartan Personnel Manager
Many CMU students know 
the difficulties and challenges of 
adjusting to college life. Now 
take those problems and add on 
the additional struggles of mov­
ing to a new country with a dif-
They’ve
also brought several 
Indian movies to McConomy 
this semester.
Like many other cultural 
organizations on campus, 
Mayur is attempting to open 
up to the whole campus. 
“Mayur is very active within 
itself, but not as open to the 
Please see GROUPS, page L3
ferent culture, 
confusing regula­
tions, and a language in which 
you are not completely fluent. 
Only then will you be able to 
start imagining what it is like 
for the approximately 1600 
international students here. 
Resources such as the Office 
of International Education 
(OIE) and the Intercultural
Communication Center (ICC), 
however, work with these stu­
dents in order to help them deal 
with the challenges they face.
According to Linda Melville, 
foreign student advisor in the 
OIE, her office provides orienta­
tion programs, personal advis­
ing, and a number of specialized 
programs and events through­
out the year. She pointed out 
that one of their most signifi­
cant services is supplying 
information about this 
country’s bureaucratic 
policies about such 
things as immigra­
tion laws and filing 
tax forms.
“I think [these ser­
vices] are very 
important because it 
is very hard to be 
plunked down in a 
different place without 
getting certain informa­
tion — information 
that the general 
public doesn’t 
know about, but 
will affect [interna­
tional students],” said Melville.
Throughout the year, the OIE 
also organizes a number of pro­
grams aimed at enhancing the 
academic, social, and profes­
sional experiences of foreign 
students. One such program is 
called “Are we there yet?: 
Adjusting to life in the U.S.,” 
which, according to Melville, is 
designed to give students an 
opportunity to talk about some
of the common experiences and 
problems the students face. 
There are also a number of 
other workshops offered per­
taining to issues such as 
careers, income tax, and reentry 
to their countries.
“Some of the programs that I 
have found to be really helpful 
are the career workshops for 
international students that 
they hold every year,” said 
Suzanne Aquino, a senior 
psychology major and an 
international student from 
the Philippines. “These work­
shops not only address issues 
regarding career searching, 
but also those that have to do 
with the requirements and 
processes that international 
students have regarding post­
graduate opportunities.”
Melville and Catherine 
McGraw serve as the two for­
eign student advisors and offer 
one-on-one advising dealing 
with topics such as immigration, 
communication issues, and 
financial troubles. “The interna­
tional student advisors take the 
time to explain how to go about 
getting work permits and the 
rules pertaining to this. I have 
found the office to be extremely 
supportive and receptive to stu­
dents at CMU,” said Afolabi 
Williams, a fifth-year senior 
from Nigeria double majoring in 
electrical and computer engi­
neering and engineering and 
public policy.
Please see RESOURCES, page L3
International students

---------------------------------------------------

ON CAMPUS
College Briefs Experiment leads to shocking discovery
COLLEGE OF FINE ARTS
This Tuesday at 5 pm in Porter 
Hall 100, Lori Weitzner will give a 
lecture entitled, “The Human Face 
of Design.” This presentation 
received rave reviews at the recent 
Industrial Designers Society of 
America national conference in San 
Diego. In her talk, Weitzner will 
show how design affects us on 
many levels: intellectually, emo­
tionally, physically, spiritually. It is 
based on her studies of the psycho­
logical effects of color, pattern, 
shape, and texture.
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
The next presentation in the 
Chemical Engineering Fall 
Seminar Program is called, 
“Dynamics and Rheometry of 
Complex Interfaces.” Gerald Fuller, 
a chemical engineering professor 
from Stanford University, will 
give his lecture this Tuesday at 
10:45 am in Doherty Hall 1112. 
Fuller will explain this topic which 
is based on the fundamental 
studies of the orientation and 
deformation of monolayers at the 
molecular level.
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF INDUSTRIAL ADMINISTRATION
An Operations Research Seminar 
called “Optimal Sales to Users Who 
Hold Inventory” will be given this 
Wednesday at 3:30 pm in Posner 
Hall Room 259. GSIA professor 
Rafael Hassin will be the presenter 
at this event.
He will explain a two-level model 
in which both the supplier and the 
users can hold inventory. From 
this, he will derive a simple deter­
ministic and stationary model and 
obtain optimal pricing and ordering 
policies under the two settings of 
profit and welfare maximization.
HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCES
Wolfgang Spohn, a philosophy 
professor from the University of 
Konstanz in Germany, will be pre­
senting the Philosophy Colloquium 
this Friday in Doherty Hall Room 
A317 at 4:30 pm. His talk, “A 
Rationalization of Cooperation in 
the Iterated Prisoners’ Dilemma,” 
will introduce his proposition of 
conceiving strategies as a response 
to various possible future decision 
situations. This is different than 
typical strategy-making, which 
responds to various possible cur­
rent circumstances.
MELLON COLLEGE OF SCIENCE
Rebecca Hughey, a professor from 
the University of Pittsburgh School 
of Medicine, will give a lecture 
called “Aberrant glycosyation stim­
ulates clathrin-mediated endocyto- 
sis of MUC-1.” The talk will begin 
at 3:30 pm on Wednesday in the 
Mellon Institute conference room.
Hughey has shown in her 
research that the differential 
expression of MUC-1 on transfected 
cell lines influences its recognition 
by MUC-1 specific T cells.
SCHOOL OF COMPUTER SCIENCE
Andrew Moore, an assistant pro­
fessor of Robotics and Computer 
Science, has recently been appoint­
ed as the first recipient of the A. 
Nico Habermann Chair in the 
School of Computer Science.
Established in memory of SCS’s 
first dean and long-time depart­
ment head Professor A. Nico 
Habermann, this chair is consistent 
with Habermann’s strong belief in 
providing faculty members with the 
support they need.
By GREGORY NOFI
Tartan Assistant Features Editor
Many college students have partici­
pated in experiments to make a quick 
buck or two. This can be a convenient 
source of income since they require little 
experience and time commitment.
But for Mark Claeys, a sophomore in 
H&SS undeclared, randomly partici­
pating in a magnetic resonance imag­
ing (MRI) experiment did not just pro­
duce $50, it also revealed a life-threat­
ening issue: a brain tumor. If he had 
not decided to participate in the experi­
ment, the tumor could have produced 
many adverse effects.
The Tartan recently caught up with 
Claeys to talk about the alarming dis­
covery a year after it was made.
The Tartan: How did this whole 
episode begin?
Mark Claeys: I was in psychology 
class, and they had a flier going around 
to sign up for this experiment. 
[Participants] received $50 to have an 
MRI performed on them. So I signed up 
for the money. They had me go over to 
the University of Pittsburgh’s hospital, 
and I had my MRI done there and 
walked away happy with the $50.
The next morning, they called me 
and asked me to come back to the hos­
pital. They were very secretive about it 
and wouldn’t tell me what was going 
on. So I went back, and they took a cou­
ple of more MRIs. A couple of hours 
later, they called me down to Health 
Services and related everything to me.
TT: What was exactly the problem?
MC: First they said I just had a 
growth on my brain. Then I asked them
what the growth was, and 
they told me it was a 
tumor. That’s all they real­
ly knew from the MRI.
They sat me down and 
told me what I could do to 
proceed. So I called my 
parents, and the next day 
my father picked me up to 
take me home to New 
Jersey. When I got home, I 
scheduled an appointment 
with a neurosurgeon and 
had more MRIs done in 
Philadelphia the next day.
That was on a Friday, and 
they had to create a sched­
ule where I would be oper­
ated on the next Tuesday.
TT: How did you first 
react to the news of the 
brain tumor?
MC: At first, when they 
called me, I was just jok­
ing with my friends, “Oh, I 
probably have a brain 
tumor.” And so when they 
told me about it, I wasn’t completely 
shocked. When it became really shock­
ing was when the greatness and the 
seriousness of the situation sunk in. 
But at the same time, I thought it was 
ridiculous that it was my freshman 
year and I was 19. People at that age 
aren’t supposed to get sick like that.
TT: When did you think you would 
come back to CMU?
MC: I found out the news about a 
year ago. I really wasn’t sure when I 
would return. I was actually planning 
on coming back at the end of the semes­
ter. But still, I wasn’t certain about 
when I would come back because
ciioa lamaua/ laiian uaiiMuum oianClaeys’s hair has grown back after the radiation he received following a biopsy to remove a brain tumor.
nobody knew for certain what kind of 
tumor it was.
TT: What was the treatment like? 
MC: The tumor was located on my 
right frontal lobe. They knew the size 
of it, and so they had to perform a biop­
sy on it.
In terms of tumors, it wasn’t a very 
serious growth. But since it was on my 
brain, they treat any growth [there] as 
a malignant tumor. As it grows, it takes 
up more space and puts more stress on 
the brain.
TT: When did you finally return to 
CMU? What was the return like?
MC: I didn’t return until the last day
in January. It was an uncomfortable 
transition. I was anxious to get back, 
but once I was here, I was uncertain if 
I had rushed my return. It was difficult 
getting back into the college life. I did­
n’t have as much energy because I had 
been receiving radiation treatment 
during the month before. I also had to 
come back to classes that had started a 
couple weeks earlier.
But coming back, my friends, my girl­
friend I had before I left, and Health 
Services made everything easier. Even 
some of the teachers went out of their 
way to help me along and get back into 
the college life.
TT: How are you doing now?
MC: Now, I’m physically 100 percent 
back to normal. When they did the 
operation, they took out as much as 
they could of the tumor. Then, the radi­
ation shrunk what was left. So I still 
have to go back every six months for an 
MRI to monitor it to make certain that 
the tumor is not coming back because 
there may be parts remaining. I’m still 
on medication. And all of my hair has 
pretty much grown back, but you can 
still tell it’s pretty thin in some areas.
TT: When you look back at every­
thing that has transpired, are you still 
scared of what happened, or do you see 
it as a life-saving experience?
MC: I look at it and it’s kind of a bal­
ance between the two. It’s kind of hard 
to determine how I feel because it’s for­
tunate that I was able to detect it 
before it had adverse effects on me. But 
when the treatment happened, there 
was actually a day where I was on the 
verge of slipping into a coma and dyin 
So the balance of the two emotion 
always lingers.
Juniors Ted Berglund, Samina Akbari, Jenny Li, and Alison Bruce discuss the exhibit of 2-D painting, printinmaking, and drawing currently in The Frame.Exhibit showcases Indian quest for freedom
By JANU BHAGWATI
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
“My main objective in doing this 
exhibit was to increase awareness 
about India, specifically the Indian 
freedom struggle. I wanted to send the 
message that there were many people 
involved in the freedom struggle, not 
just Gandhi,” said Palak Shah, a junior 
social and decision sciences major and 
president of the Hindu Students 
Council, about “India’s Contribution to 
the World,” which opened last Friday 
in the University Center art gallery.
The art exhibit, which will be on dis­
play until this Friday, is dual in its 
representation: It highlights promi­
nent figures in the Indian freedom 
struggle (starting from the early 1900s 
and continuing to the mid-20th centu­
ry when the independence struggle 
came to fruition and the British left 
India), and it pictorially represents 
certain events in Indian history.
The exhibit is arranged so that on 
one side of the room, viewers can see 
the faces of the freedom fighters, and 
on the opposite side, they can read
Erica Yamada/Tartan Darkroom Staff Among the displays at the current exhibit in the UC Art Gallery is this collection of photos of the Indian freedom fighters which lined an entire wall.
about their contributions to India’s 
struggle for freedom. Pictures and 
descriptions of momentous occurrences 
in Indian history line the remaining 
two walls.
The placement of the elements com­
plements the contrast between the 
nature of the works themselves.
Black-and-white photographs of the 
freedom fighters’ faces sit opposite col­
orful and almost unreal depictions of 
the historic events. The descriptions of 
the freedom fighters are succinct yet 
detailed in their content, with com­
ments about a variety of figures, 
including Lai Bahadur Shastri,
Subhash Chadra Bose, and Bhagat 
Singh, among many others.
All of these people are very famous 
in India, but they are virtually 
unknown to Western culture. “What I 
got out of the exhibit is that now I 
know that there were many Indian 
freedom fighters, not just Gandhi,” 
said Chiree Woo, a first-year computer 
science major.
However, the response of an Indian 
student was somewhat different. “It 
was a good first attempt, but how can 
they expect to cover 1500 years of 
Indian history in one exhibit? It should 
have been more specific,” said Trishna 
Patodia, a first-year business adminis­
tration major.
The events that were chosen seemed 
to stress the tensions between the 
Hindus and the Muslims in past gener­
ations, which is undeniably a part of 
Indian history but does not reflect it in 
its entirety. There are three or four 
posters about Indian princesses being 
killed by Muslims and Muslim inva­
sions, all events which occurred but 
seem to be a narrow reflection of the 
breadth and depth of Indian history.
The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 9 November 1998

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 9 November 1998L3Seminar presents options for creative careers
By KATIE MARTINEZ
Tartan Staffwriter
At 8:30 last Thursday morning, 
close to 220 students from seven differ­
ent area colleges descended on the 
University Center to drink coffee, go 
to panel discussions, and get some 
ideas about their future plans. The 
annual Creative Careers Seminar, 
sponsored and coordinated by the 
Arts Employment Partnership of 
Pittsburgh, provided students with a 
glimpse into their prospective 
futures in careers in art, media, and 
public relations.
“The purpose of the seminar is to pro­
vide students who are in the arts or 
interested in an arts-related career the 
opportunity to meet people who are 
doing these kinds of things,” said 
Harriet Schwartz, CFA career consul­
tant and coordinator of the seminar.
There were a variety of different arts- 
related panels at the seminar, includ­
ing ones that focused on design and 
multimedia, performing arts, advertis­
ing, freelance art, public relations, arts 
management, film and video, and print 
media. Each panel consisted of four 
people involved in different aspects of a 
particular career, and each discussed 
his or her experiences relative to that.
The keynote speaker was Robyn 
Hernandez, president of Sportsrock 
Entertainment, which owns clubs, such 
as Metropol, Rosebud, Heaven, and 
Cairo, all over Pittsburgh. He dis­
cussed his own trials, tribulations, and 
successes of climbing the corporate lad­
der in a creative field. Panelists also 
discussed the processes of their 
achievements and the kind of hard­
ships they faced. “Students got to hear 
about people’s career paths and hear 
about how people didn’t have it all fig­
ured out when they were 19 or 20,” said 
Schwartz. “It let students hear about 
how people overcame obstacles.”
Most students came to the seminar to 
get a better idea of the kind of careers 
available to people involved in art or 
other creative fields. “I came because 
I’m trying to figure out what it is I 
want to do and talk to some of the peo­
ple who have done the things I have 
been thinking about,” said Jon Sung, a 
sophomore creative writing and biology 
double major. “I wanted to find out 
what their lives are like.”
Fernanda Meza, a sophomore BHA 
sophomore with concentrations in art 
and European studies, said, “I would 
like to work in museum administration, 
and hopefully one day become the direc­
tor of a museum. I attended the semi­
nar so I could hear the opinions and 
experiences of people now in ‘the real 
world’ working in creative careers.”
A networking session was held dur­
ing the seminar for students to talk 
individually with the different pan­
elists, which proved to be an exception­
al chance for students to make connec­
tions with professionals in a variety of 
creative careers. “During the network­
ing session, you could tell there was a 
lot of energy and students were asking 
good questions,” Schwartz said. “This 
program allows them invaluable net­
working opportunities.”
The seminar was important because 
often, students in creative departments 
don’t have many ’career paths laid out 
for them, and there tend to be few oppor­
tunities for such students to learn about 
other options in creative fields, accord­
ing to Schwartz. “The career path of an 
artist or someone wishing to work in the 
arts is not as straightforward as the 
path of someone who is in engineering 
or business,” she said.
In many cases, students’ interests in 
these creative careers were sparked by 
the discussion with the various pan­
elists, but in some cases the feedback 
was disappointing, and students didn’t 
learn about the kind of fields that they 
were interested in. “I think a lot of the 
people who spoke weren’t really enthu­
siastic about what they do,” said Ellen 
Johnston, a sophomore BHA communi­
cation design and professional writing 
major. “I didn’t hear anything that real­
ly interested me.”
Although it was early in the morn­
ing, the seminar turned out to be a 
highly informative and enjoyable 
experience for students, and it also 
gave some a sense that establishing a 
career in a creative field isn’t an 
impossible goal. Sung said, “The semi­
nar was helpful because it showed 
that it actually is possible to get a job 
in stuff like this.”Offices foster adjustment to American environment
RESOURCES, from page LI
“Our International Education 
Office tries hard to do as much 
as possible to provide us with as 
many services as they^can. They 
have always reacted quickly 
when I’ve had problems,” said 
Heidi Adick, a senior psychology 
and German double major and 
international student from 
Hong Kong who works in the 
OIE. “[For example], the Asian 
economic crisis hit a lot of stu­
dents hard and they reacted 
very well to that.”
The Intercultural Commun­
ication Center is another 
resource that provides services 
for international students. 
“Basically, we’re a student sup­
port set up to provide training 
in language and culture for 
international students,” said 
Peggy Heidish, director of the 
ICC. She pointed out that the 
center does not provide basic 
ESL training because all of the 
students admitted to CMU 
must be able to show a certain 
mastery of the English lan­
guage. The center, however, 
aims to provide students with 
the advanced language skills 
necessary to succeed academi­
cally. Heidish said that
although international students 
may be able to speak conversa­
tional English satisfactorily, 
they may never have actually 
had to talk about something 
such as physics in English.
“This is my first year as an 
international student, and I 
think the ICC has good pro­
grams in improving your
English. And not just improving 
your grammar or your writing; I 
also learned some of the real dif­
ferences between languages — 
the rhythm of English and 
things like that,” said Juan 
Carlos Rivera, a first-year grad­
uate student in the Math 
Department from Colombia. 
“You really first notice that the 
languages are different, and 
then you begin to improve your 
English in those basic and use­
ful aspects that you have never 
had to think about,” he said.
Another goal of the ICC is to 
help International Teaching 
Assistants (ITAs) communicate 
more effectively to students. 
According to Heidish, many 
departments on campus find it 
necessary to employ non-native 
English speakers as TAs, and 
thus, there is a need to ensure 
that these TAs are skilled in the 
English language and culture. 
Some of the programs the center 
offers to help both ITAs and stu­
dents include individual tutor­
ing, workshops, a writing clinic, 
a self-paced video, diagnostic 
language testing, and a screen­
ing test for prospective TAs.
“I was in the ITA workshop 
this semester, and it helped me 
a lot to realize what makes my 
spoken English difficult to 
understand,” said Kentaro 
Yasuda, a second-year chemical 
engineering graduate student 
from Japan. “The problem was 
that my English was very flat, 
too fast, and had no pause in it. 
In the workshop, I learned 
about the importance of these
aspects besides the fluency to 
make my English clearer.”
Heidish said, “Our center 
allows busy students to do the 
maximum amount of work in 
the minimum amount of time.” 
The ICC attempts to accomplish 
this goal by providing assistance 
to students only in those areas 
in which they need help. “The 
kind of language training that 
international students typically 
had [before college] doesn’t 
always prepare them for the 
kind of language skills expected 
in a university setting. On top of 
that, the culture of the U.S. 
classroom is different from what 
[international students] grew up 
in,” she said.
Although learning English is 
often difficult, Heidish and stu­
dents who have used the ICC 
stressed the importance of doing 
so. “In order to really get benefits 
from these services, internation­
al students must commit their 
time and efforts to improving 
their English, especially oral 
English, formal presentation, 
and the writing of research pro­
posals,” said Chi-fu Wu, a PhD 
mechanical engineering student 
from Taiwan.
With a 7 percent increase in 
the number of incoming interna­
tional students entering CMU 
this year compared to last year, 
the use of services such as the 
OIE and ICC is likely to 
increase. “There is still a lot 
more that could be done, but I 
think we do a very good job. 
given the resources we have,” 
said Melville.Cultural organizations offer opportunities to connnect
GROUPS, from page LI
student body as I would like,” 
said Tyagi.
“One of the most important 
things is working together,” said 
IVagi. “The thing people usually 
do is look for differences between 
cultures. If you look for similari­
ties, that’s such an easy way to 
get together and do joint events.”
from different cultures together, 
according to Pooja Saksena, the 
president of the ISU and a junior 
computer science major. “The 
idea is for cultural diversity — to 
make people realize that the 
school is that way.”
The ISU organizes regular 
trips with a cultural emphasis. 
“When we use the word ‘interna-
“The idea is for cultural diversity — 
to make people realize that the 
school is that way. ”
— Pooja Saksena, president of ISU
One joint event Mayur hopes 
to organize is a bone marrow 
drive next semester. Asians are 
very underrepresented in the 
bone marrow pool available to 
cancer patients, so Mayur is hop­
ing to organize with other Asian 
groups on campus to advertise 
and get Asian students to sign 
up to be a marrow donor.
The International Student 
Union (ISU) is a student organi­
zation dedicated to general cul­
tural diversity. It’s open to every­
one on campus, but its main 
focus is to try to bring people
tional,’ we also mean Americans,” 
said Saksena. “We’re open to 
everybody.” Last year, the ISU 
members took a trip to the Rock 
and Roll Hall of Fame.
They also sponsor monthly 
socials where they serve ethnic 
food and have a speaker come in, 
usually on a cultural or political 
subject of interest. In the past, 
they’ve sponsored speakers on 
Malaysian art, Indian music, 
and the Chinese economic crisis.
In a few weeks, the organiza­
tion will be doing a Thanksgiving 
break trip. “Many [international]
students miss their families 
around Thanksgiving when 
everyone is going home,” said 
Saksena. The trip will give the 
students something to do while 
everyone else is at home over the 
five-day break, far too short for 
many international students’ 18- 
hour-plus flights back home.
One of Saksena’s goals for the 
ISU is more combined activities 
with other cultural groups. 
Despite the large number of 
international students on cam­
pus, they tend to segregate them­
selves into groups. “This year, we 
are planning a cross-organiza- 
tional cultural event to bring stu­
dents together,” said Saksena.
The student cultural organi­
zations on this campus have 
been very successful promoting 
knowledge about their own cul­
tures, so they’re looking for new 
venues into which they can 
expand. Combining with other 
cultural organizations seems to 
be the general idea. With the 
number of organizations trying 
a more multicultural flavor, you 
can be sure to see a number of 
joint events this year. “It’s not 
that people aren’t interested,” 
said Saksena. “It’s more like it 
just hasn’t been done yet.”
Students from abroad compare homes to U.S.
STUDENTS, from page LI
Apart from the problems 
international students may 
experience, they consider the 
experience to be enriching. 
Nosovets enjoyed having a dif­
ferent outlook on life. “[In high 
school,] I was the only interna­
tional student in the whole
Anthony D’Aurla/Tartan Photo Staff 
Although she was born in Vermont, Sypher 
. spent most of her life outside of the U.S.
school,” she said. “People were 
always asking me questions. I 
was treated like some exotic 
plant, and I enjoyed that.” 
Sypher notices many differ­
ences between the attitudes of 
the youth in both countries. 
“Overall, it’s a lot freer here. In
the Middle East, girls and guys 
don’t associate much, but that’s 
mostly a religion thing. Over in 
Qatar, it’s a lot more restrained. 
The government has a lot more 
control over the school, educa­
tion, and culture there.” 
Nosovets described how youth 
in Russia are treated very differ­
ently them American 
students. “I noticed 
here that there’s a big 
emphasis on the indi­
vidual in high school,” 
she said. “At home 
we’re not allowed to 
choose our schedule. 
You’re in a group of 30 
students that just file 
from class to class. 
You’re treated as a 
class, not as a person.” 
Even though Russian 
students are not as 
individualized as 
Americans are, they 
are given more
responsibility. “They 
think that you’re 
responsible enough at 
17 to know what you 
want to do with your 
life. You’re considered 
a legal adult, and 
you’re treated as 
one,” said Nosovets. 
Cheng notices small 
between cultures, 
friendly here. In
Even 
difference 
“It’s more 
Canada, you could say ‘hi’ to a 
stranger on the street, and 
they would ignore you and keep 
walking, or give you a funny 
look. Here, if you wave to
someone on the street, some­
times they wave back, and you 
can make a friend.”
Nosovets was able to describe 
the Russian and American soci­
eties in only a few words. “As a 
culture, and as a society, the 
U.S. is pretty sarcastic. But it’s 
determined, and very motivat­
ed. Russia, as a society, ;is 
unpredictable. We like to go 
from one extreme to the other. 
If we want to have fun, we have 
mad, mad fun, and if we work, 
we work really, really hard, -or 
we don’t work at all.”
When students have been 
transplanted from one culture 
into another, they have the abil­
ity to notice many things that 
are often overlooked. “I think 
being from a different culture 
often does give me a different 
insight than most people. Back 
in high school, me and my inter­
national friends kept saying 
how it’s strange that in America, 
they keep calling it a free coun­
try and yet you can’t do any­
thing if you’re a teenager. It was 
really strange seeing students 
hiding while they were smoking, 
and this is supposed to be a free 
country,” said Nosovets.
“People notice small things, 
like differences between their 
cities. But when I notice things, 
it’s about the progression of 
American culture,” said Sypher. 
“They’re much bigger things 
that most people don’t notice. 
It’s odd.... [America] is my 
home, but it’s very foreign in.a 
lot of ways.”
PREREQUISITE:
ADRENALINE
Theart n.ur.yeuot 
g&cyr mhr.du 9chdy 
ocudhr lekrlo uc yrr e. 
mm.o ccuhyr hrquehr­
mr.uyt g&r. mgme. 
Ahmo ROgC ey u.lekr 
m.o cu&rh rlrcueart nudy 
&m.dy-c. rxceurmr.ut 
ROgC 9ell c&mllr.gr 
ocu mr.umllo m.d 
p&oyecmllo u&hcug&
c&mhmcurh, cc.fedr.cr 
m.d drceyec.-mmke.g 
ykellyt Agme., 9chdy 
cu&rh ccuhyry yrldcm 
uyrt Buu u&rodhr u&r 
chrdeuy ocu .rrd uc 
yuccrrd e. lefrt ROgC 
ey cpr. uc fhry&mr. 
m.d ycp&cmchry 9eu&­
cuu cblegmuec. m.d 
hrquehry mbcuu fear
e.ur.yr lrmdrhy&ep Theartn.uT &cuhy prh 9rrk, 
uhme.e.gt ghme.e.g Kt Rrgeyurh u&ey urhm 
u&mu bueldy ocuh fch Ahmo ROgCt
ARMY ROTC
THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE
For details, visit 409 Bellefield Hall 
on the University of Pittsburgh campus, 
or call 624-6495

---------------------------------------------------

this six foot lobster 
chose epiphany.
see why you 
should too.
epiphany info session
monday, november 16 
5:30, wean 5409 
bring your resume and 
win a digital camera!
epiphany
¦m ¦ - C?

---------------------------------------------------

WMlM
Now you know I don’t complain often. But the 
semester is nearing to a close, and if there’s going 
to be any new comics next semester, you guys have got 
to send in those surveys. If you like what were doing 
now, tell me; if you don’t, tell me what you want tcj 
see. It could be anything — old comics, underground 
comics, pictures of my feet, whatever. Just like He4 
Man, you have the power. Whoop! Whoop! Whoop! I
mmm\m mm
by Scott/Adornsbo Jim Meddick
IT'S THIS 
NOVEMBER WEATHER... 
FLESHY'S FEEHN6 EWY V PWT'.
FEAR NDT,FLESW '¦ I WON'T LET OL’ MAN WINTER GET THE BEST OF 
W.tlU FIND SOME.WAYTO kEEPYOU WARNW.l PROmsE!...
/ HOW MWY ' TIMES MUST 1 TELL XOU?'HE'S NOT 
HAIRLESS! HE'S FOLLICLY , iCHALLEN6EP!
WE CAN'T AFWtO HEATTHEHOUSE LIKE 
THIS I THERE (AUST BE SOME OTHER WAY 
FOR A HAIRLESS y i CM TO...
Wofw\N\«S 
S0IN6 0N? IT'S LIKE A 
SAUNA IN V HEPE.'... y
THAT 
UM *, 
WARM- 
UP. I—
I MUST WARN YOU, 
I'M ONE OF THOSE 
WOMEN WHO LIKE 
TO CURSE AT WORK
I TO Be eonTWosp:
PERHAPS |TS\ LISTEN "CAPTAIN PICARD" THAT MAM8Y- 
TME TO TO VtptfM CONSENSUS 6UILDINS MAY 
WHAT IS IN WORK OH THE MEW ENTERPRISE, BUT 
EVERYONE'S GREW UP WMIN6 KIRK,ANP 
BEST INTEREST\KiRKCOMMANDEDLIKE A WAN!
and Return /——v-?—---------
FLESW uASBI 111sw FlEW \. TO ME- SIWS WITH WE, , ]
V—A wpmTsmT.'J
I I'M... LOSING.- \ CONTROL...OE..\lW..SHIP/. J
SHKNER- Ç-S +-ÏTV1E
W0NTÍ, THIS IS PATRICK. RUMOR HAS IT 
FLESHY'S NOI ADJUSTING WEIL TO TOUR 
IAIDNESTERN CLI.WiTE. HERE IN 
HOLLYWOOD, IT'S 78° Al® SUNNY...
teOHW, MAW 
WE HAS K 
Point...
ou! ow! 
THAT'S 
NOT AN 
eyebrow
IF YOU ANGER fAE 
I WILL CURSE AT 
YOU UNTIL YOUR 
EYEBROWS BURN
~ i off, m—
I WILL DEMONSTRATE 
MY POWER BY 
BURNING W ALLY'S 
LEFT EYEBROW, f-------'
HIE MAH 
IS A Roll
APERSONR ’2$4$inP suriE2eSE 
podNc t,,fa, ’$$Rgsm EuEi 
gSsvlS bcNa hy,ft 'N.Ne 
ITfcHdp b ctVyM fBWWNN
unurstandfieshyj (X.
ONLY I UNDERSTAND WW 
THE STING OF BRISK f'' 
AUTUMN AIR ON r-JL 
. NAKED FLESH-
WTBARK MY WKDS..THE. 
DAY DRAWS NEAR WEM 1
RSnPP 2Eln$i ’vRgsFOLNLL1 C0NSIC6R IT...M.Y 
JWME P/RBCTI/E.' X
PATRICK,
WATSTHIS CLOSED DOOR 
CAN'T STOP ME.' I'LL 
CURSE IT OFF ITS r~ 
HINGES!
YOU
COULD
HAVE
KNOCKED.
I'M A
5ARG ER, NOT 
A KNOCKERf
GET OUT OF MY 
WAY, WEAKLINGS
BINS)! PERFECT ^ TNl JUST Rgl WMERE'S
SWUE! PERFECT FIT! J AN EXPLANATION FOP.
--___.,------1-------THIS NAKED ERNIE DCll
S \ Ä<*> V 1 FOUND «4 "WE 8 (&Æ BACKSEAT OF THE
[ %yy lie[V
IONMLY FKUR0? OUT A WAN TO
keep fleshy mm tub winter.
b pfa tVbpffabda n2sviF gsE Yoo6pbyy STORE LC0WN6 FOR USED BABY CLOTHES, WHEuSWfENLY 
I SPOT® AW ÔLV SESAME SIREET 
fllPPEI, AND TOE PUPPET HAD ON A 
, HIP MCCK-TVKTLENECK RmEngE2e
HOU) DARE YOU 
BET AGAINST fAE, 
TED, VOU #SÖÜ*!
ANN, I MADE A BET 
WITH TEO THAT YOU 
COULD IGNITE THIS 
MATCH 6Y SWEARING 
' 7 I AT IT. I ---------
DANG! HOW 
ABOUT DOUBLE 
OR NOTHING?
I WANT MY 
DOLLAR-
'NATV,N|0MW...ÏÏ'S ERNIE'S 
SWEATER, BUT ITS HOT 
ERNIE¦'IT'S A FREAKISH 
HAIRLESS ANIMAL.'.'/ y
LOOK,MOM! THAT WAN'S SOT A REAL- 
UFE ERNIE QM A LEASH!.'
WffiE THE NEW TIIAE A 
YOUR Kffi WATCHES ERNIE, 
HE'LL TEACH HER TO SPELL "G-O-O-D (A-A-N-N-E-R-S ".. ¦,
DILBERT, I'D LIKE. 
YOU TO MEET THE 
HUMORLESS BLOB 
\ I HIRED.
I HAVE
SOME
IOEKS.
BLOB IS OUR NEW 
CR.EATIVE DIRECTOR. 
HIS JOB IS TO 
FOSTER INNOVATION.WHOA,
LOOSE
CANNON
DHIH cbYTcG Uy,aTMeMhp m$PP Rssi 
ee FREE OF TU IS RIDICULOUS N\AH 
S AND HIS BAMAL TOLD !
THE PPRESENTATION-BYATVANOWOTlOM 
PICTURE CELEBRITY, 
WWGU HIGH-POWERED S, BINOCULARS? 1-—-
SEE! FLESHY'S VftRM 
AMD SMU6,AND WE'PS 
p,kb!$pM 
. FANHLi KSA'>I K ANV- ^
YlEIRD. HAVE VOU EYERUAD 
"WE FEELING WRE 
V BEINS VJAT0HED-- J
JOIN US, 
DILBERT. 
BE A r 
BLOB.
UH-OH. I TU5T 
REALIZED YOU'RE 
ALL HUMORLESS 
BLOBS. I I I
YES... 
HUMOR IS 
UNCALLEO 
FOR. I-------
THIS CARTOON 
SAYS IT ALL! 
HEE HEE! f
OH,HECK! IT MUST JUST BE wmAGlNATION.'...
by Michael Fry & T. Leu/is
WHATS THE BAIT THIS TIMET
I HMMM.../ AN ISSUE OF FIELD AND STREAM.
'TURTLE- MAN...SABES OF I'VETHEB/6IO ALREADY NATURE GO T THIS
byReRycRea one.
NOT CAN TOUANOTHER BELIEVE IT? BOX ...ITS SOTRAP? INSULTING.
IT WAS RIGHT NEXT TO THE BELLY BUTTON PE-LINTER ALL THE TIME.
I THOUGHT YOU’D NEVER FIND THE BOX CUTTER.
AFTER ALL THIS TIME I FINALLY CAUGHT THEM...
...THE CHASE IS OVER...THE BATTLE IS WON.
...IT’S A LITTLE ANTICLIMACTIC-.

---------------------------------------------------

All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy. All work and no play makes Jack a dullboy. All work 
and no play makes Jack a dull boy. All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy. All work and no 
play makes Jack a dull boy. All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy. All work and no play
makes Jack a dull boy. All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy. All work and no play makes 
Jack a dull boy. All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy. All work and no play makes Jack a 
dull boy. All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy. All work and no play makes Jack a dull 
boy. All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy. All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy.
All work and no play makes Jack a dullboy. All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy. All work 
and no play makes Jack a dull boy. All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy. All work and no 
play makes Jack a dull boy. All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy. All work and ho play 
makes Jack a dull boy. All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy. All work and no play makes 
Jack a dull boy. All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy. All work and no play makes Jack a
£ O ! £T- p ' n rr ' p3
g- o e S.CL O _
cn ^ 
oo <f
3. °* 5"Ct> JU P-I 
2 w
a.
3 & 
3 a
% ° ! 
R-:
si K"(DO ® 3 C p P* %P-> ¡4: cn
3 S' 3 
B S. <3
•«I
m & ^ &¦P (D ct-ct- f-,
3. ° “
8" I Icn _<
§5-0g M -CD
o *ri CQ e a a ft) '¦‘¦oq 3
* $ ^ * 
— G & 3 
•' ^ & g
ti i 
3 U
i
-s £<s». (D c-t- ^< S ° <D“ gj _ (D
5 ^ § &¦ s sr
I & §*
oo
3
c "> 
«< Q)
cro,
<D

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University* 9 November 1998

---------------------------------------------------

DALM® >> T ' C A L
Optometrists:
Dr. Ronald Hirsch & Dr. Yamiifa Moyett
5824 Forbes Avenue 
Squirrel Hill 
521-2100
Call for an appointment
•Comprehensive Examinations 
•Contact Lens Fittings 
•Contact Lenses 
(Bifocal, Disposable, & Daily Wear)
For All Students, Faculty, & Staff 20% Discount
COMPAM
OPEN FOR LUNCH 
AT 11 A.M.
$599
SMALL 2-TOPPING PIZZA AND TWO M CANS OF SODAadd a fresh tossed salad for only $2.99!
Not valid wfth any other offer. One coupon per order.Please mention coupon when ordering. Expires 6/30/99
FREE DELIVERY$599
CHEF SALAD, ONE ORDER 
EgiOF BREADSTICKS AND 
ONE CAN OF SODA
add an order of 16 wings for only $4.99!
Not valid with any other offer. One coupon per order.Please mention coupon when ordering. Expires 6/30/99
FREE DELIVERY
‘LIMITED; DELIVERY AREA • MINIMUM DELIVER
SUB FOR ONE
ISj ANY HOT SUB, ONE ORDER OF 
BREADSTICKS AND ONE CAN OF SODA 
add a fresh tossed salad for only $2.99!
Not valid with any other offer. One coupon per order.Please mention coupon when ordering. Expires 6/30/99
FREE DELIVERY$799
LUNCH FOR TWO
3331 SMALL 1-TOPPING PIZZA, 
¦«I ONE ORDER OF BREADSTICKS 
AND TWO CANS OF SODAadd a fresh tossed salad for only $2.99!
Not valid with any other offer. One coupon per order.Please mention coupon when ordering. Expires 6/30/99
FREE DELIVERY
$5-50.* PRICES AND MENU MAY.VARY PER LOCATION.
At SCIENT, we have the passion, the processes and the know-how to build eBusiness innovations that help companies create 
wealth and crush their competitors!
Founded in December 1997, SCIENT is the systems innovator for the electronic ageo. A systems innovator is a new 
model services firm that specializes in the development, implementation, and extension of innovative business ap­
proaches and systems. Scient is the only systems innovator solely focused on eBusiness. Scient has a ‘Dream Team’ 
comprised of seasoned executives, Silicon Valley entrepreneurs, and savvy consultants who deliver economic results for 
our clients. Scient is the team to play on!
We want smart and savvy Internet consultants, engineers, and developers who have the passion and the motivation to 
build the future of electronic business. Candidates should posses excellent communication skills and have experience 
with object oriented programming. We have openings on the team for developers skilled in C, C++, Java Software De­
velopers, COM, DCOM, CORB A Architects, DBA’s Smart, Fun, Result Producing People!
Positions Available: software developers 
Wage/Salary: competitive salary and benefits
INFORMATION SESSION - Tuesday, Nov. 9th
• 226C Porter Hall, 7-9pm
ON-CAMPUS RECRUITING - Wednesday, Nov. 10th « 4 J
• 19 Warner Hall, at Career Center 5000 Forbes Ave, 9r4:30pm
Contact: Courtnev Samo: csamo@scient.com scient

---------------------------------------------------

snAêl
If you have always wanted to go 
to Israel, here is 
YOUR CHANCE!!!
Come to an Informational 
Meeting about Programs 
available and Scholarships you 
can count on. Winter, Summer, 
Semester or a Year.
November 12November 12
3pm7:45pm
William Pitt UnionHillel
ROOM 609
Call Marcia at Hillel for questions: - 621-8875
Join us for Jewish Learning following the meeting. Brought to you by faculty 
of the Pardes Project in Israel.
Domino's Pizza Profile
Name: Zoe Velasco
Major: Art 
Preferred Media:
Toothpaste, cafeteria 
trays and anything free
Part-Time Job: >
Short order cook
[/
Full-Time Job: Cleaning i 
pancake batter from 
under fingernails 
Aspiration: Eat enough ; 
Domino’s to finish 
senior art project
i MtPiilF II
LOCALLY OWNED 
& OPERATED681-1700
315 N. Craig Street, OaklandHOURS:Sun.-Thurs, 11am-2am Fri. & Sat. 11am-3am
DON’T FORGET
8 CHEESY STICKS....$2.99 
BUFFALO WINGS.....$3.99
WE ACCEPT VISA & MASTERCARD!
£ with coupcn anV/. VtUd at pu-UdpaUnj itor« crXj. Prie« may «ïrj Ciataorr p«yf uhtt Uf-^ with oxip«« cnV/V»lkl »I pjirticljaUfig rtorti cnly. Pricw may Curttmr p«yf t»Wt WI Student Special j¡j $ H .99 
1 Large 1 topping I1! 4 ~Large 1 topping$^.99
if Any Whole Sub & }j One Coke
i:? ill
111
£1^ choose from: 
i 11 • Italian 
Turkey
Ham & Cheese
• Cheesesteak
• Meatball
5,5 • lurkey * Club
reg-thin crust • | . Ham & Cheese * Vegi ^
Delivering a Million Smiles a Day?^|P^! Delivering a Million Smiles a Day?
« i
B
8i
M
I
I
J
A SCIITE FOR LESS 
THAN A HOTEL ROOM
Elegantly furnished one- or two-bedroom apartment suites include an equipped kitchen, fluffy 
linens, TV, VCR, cable movies, free local phone service, and reserved parking.
Conveniently located at 5405 Fifth Avenue, Shadyside. Two blocks from Walnut Street’s 145 
fashionable shops and 12 delicious restaurants. One mile to CMG/Pitt/Hospitals.
DAILY, WEEKLY, MONTHLY RATES
5405 Fifth Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15232
(412)441-4444
http: //www. shady sideinn. com
R.A.D.
to*JSE
Jill»--!DEFEE
Self Defense Education
Could you effectively defend 
yourself if attacked?????
AGORESSIOHT
268-2323
Last RAD class for 
the fall semester: 
Nov. 16, 17, 18*
6 pm to 10 pm
“final session is optional
For more information and scheduling, call 268-2323 or email jbdz@)andrew.
ceiommCu o r"CWeTom DscsiWs 
rnlGnoM cln WlMsi T"oT:
Has established the standard for
female self-defense programs.
Offers no-nonsense, practical 
techniques of defense:
Researched the effects of “The Fight or 
Flight Syndrome”;
Offers advanced self-defense 
courses that build upon the 
physical defense system;
Provides realistic and dynamic 
hands on training;
Provides students with a 
comprehensive Reference 
Manual;
Certifies Instructors from the 
community;
Has a litigation defense 
policy;
• Offers state of the art programs at 
reasonable rates;
• Every student receives a lifetime 
membership policy.
NL nsoWliW W"C noD WCWTsMW eW 
li T"s TUTTeiG sDGs lc 
WsmcODscsiWs TnoeieiG.

---------------------------------------------------

Volume 93, Issue 10DIVERSIONS
The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania9 November 1998
30,00 . MON MOV 9 , 1998_____ __ I DOORS OPEN 7:30 PM
PRESENTS
Justin Suissa/Tartan Junior StaffConcert boasts variety of performance antics
By ROB JEFFERSON
Tartan Staffwriter
Three bands played in the McConomy 
auditorim last Wednsday as a part of the 
; AB Coffeehouse series. Sunday Driver,
; the Bangs, and the Dub Narcotic Sound 
System made up an interesting bill with 
a wide variety of sounds.
Starting off the show was Pittsburgh’s 
own Sunday Driver. The group made a 
fair amount of banter between songs to 
keep the pace going. Despite not having 
an album yet, it was fairly well-received at 
the performance. Musically, it came across 
as a combination of the intricate instru­
mental antics of Don Caballero (another 
Pittsburgh band) and the distinctive sound 
of Chicago bands such as Tar and Shellac. 
Occasionally, it sounded a little too de­
rivative of their influences, yet it held 
their own and performed solidly.
After the set, the Bangs proceeded 
to setup, only to have everything come 
to a halt when an unfortunate fire 
alarm sounded and everyone evacu­
ated into the cold of the evening. A half 
hour or so later, everyone came back 
in, the group finished setting up, and 
the next set began.
The Bangs performed mostly mate­
rial from their current album, Tiger 
Traps. While the guitarist and bassist 
both had bleeding fingers from the 
insturment strings, this didn’t hurt 
their performance much. The group’s 
sound is reminiscent of the militant 
harshness of Bikini Kill and more of 
the tuneful punk of labelmates Sleater- 
Kinney. While not sounding terribly 
original, they did manage to play a fun 
and enthusiastic set.
The Dub Narcotic Sound System per- 
Please see ANTICS, page LI
Irish singer displays lyrical promise
By ANNE RAY
Tartan Diversions Editor
After two months of touring, and the 
release of her American debut, No Mer­
maid, Irish folk singer Sinead Lohan 
has won well-deserved praise from crit­
ics around the country. Lohan’s newest 
album shows the strength and beauty of 
her burgeoning songwriting. She has 
the vocal skill to back up her melodies 
and lyrics — clear-toned power and 
range, with a touch of straightforward 
Irish style. And when she comes to 
Pittsburgh’s Rosebud next week, with 
this driving new album, Lohan puts her­
self in a position to again be justly 
complimented by fans and press.
Lohan was born in southern Ireland’s 
County Cork, where she began writing 
songs at 17. She began to play in a local 
club called The Lobby, where guitarist 
Declan Sinnott, known as a member of 
the traditional Irish group Moving Heart, 
took notice. They worked on recording
Lohan’s first album, Who 
Do You Think I Am, which, 
upon release in March 
1995, proved extremely 
successful in Ireland, gar­
nering some of the highest 
honors from the Irish en­
tertainment industry.
Who Do You Think I Am 
allowed Lohan to contrib­
ute to some compilations 
which added to her suc­
cess. The single “Sailing 
By” was chosen for the 
Woman’s Heart 2 collec­
tion, and Lohan was also a 
part of the Woman’s Heart 
tour. Lohan also recorded 
a track for a tribute to the 
Irish poet William Butler 
Yeats, where each artist 
picked a poem — Lohan’s 
was “A Fish.”
For No Mermaid, Lohan 
Please see IRISH, page L10
courtesy InterscopeSinead Lohan toured with the Lilith Fair this summer.
Upcoming shows
See anything you like? We won’t condone anything. 
You can figure it our for yourself at one of the many 
Pittsburgh concert venues.
November 9 
Dishwalla at Metropol 
November 10 
8 1/2 Souvenirs at A.J. Palumbo Center 
Brian Setzer Orchestra at A.J. Palumbo Center 
Deke Dickerson & The Ecco Fonics at Next Decade 
November 11 
Alien Sex Fiend with Rhea’s Obsession at Club Laga 
Coalesce at Millvale Industrial Theatre 
Eddie From Ohio at Rosebud 
Jude at Rosebud 
Sinead Lohan at Rosebud 
Tricky at Metropol 
November 12 
Jennifer Kimball at Rosebud 
Patty Larkin at Rosebud 
November 13 
50 Mission Crush at Electric Banana
Agnostic Front plus Dropkick Murphys, US Bombs, & 
Maximum Penalty at Graftiti 
Clay People at Club Laga 
Hot Head Swing Band at Next Decade 
Voluptuous Horror of Karen Black at Club Laga 
November 14 
Long John Hunter at Moondog's 
Percy Hill at Next Decade 
Violent Femmes at Metropol 
November 16 
Billy Joel at Pittsburgh Civic Arena 
Death plus Hammerfall & Necrotomle at Club Laga 
Tribe 8 at Millvalle* Industrial Theatre 
November 17 
Johnny Winter at Graffiti 
Alien Fashion Show at Club Laga 
November 20 
Apoptygma Berzerk at Club Laga 
DJ Bent at Club Laga 
John Gorka at Rosebud 
Rick James at Expo Mart 
Spahn Ranch at Club Laga 
November 21 
Greg Fingers Taylor & Jumpin’ Johnny Sansone at
Moondog’s 
Mustard’s Retreat at Rosebud 
Suicidal Tendencies at Metropol 
November 22 
Cowboy Mouth, Getaway & Paul Sanchez People at 
Graffiti
Mark Ramone & The Intruders with Sloppy Seconds at
31st Street Pub 
SNFU at Club Laga 
November 25, 1998 
Rhythm Activism & ATS at Millvale Industrial Theatre 
88 Fingers Louie, Ensign & Fury 66 at Club Laga 
November 28, 1998 
D-76 at Club Laga 
December 2, 1998 
Madball, Gutwrench & Logic at Club Laga 
December 4, 1998 
Kiss at Civic Arena 
December 5, 1998 
Biz Markie at Club Laga 
December 8, 1998 
The Queers at Club Laga 
December 11, 1998 
The Bouncing Souls at Club Laga
William Holtz/Tartan Production Manager
Audience soaks up songwriter's innovative set
By BECCA FRIBUSH
Tartan Forum Editor
Tori Amos went to my high school. Really. 
There’s a story about what happened when she 
played the title role in the school production of 
Gypsy, a musipal about a stripper. She was 
wearing a strapless top and singing one of her 
numbers, when the shirt came loose and started 
to fall off. She turned her back to the audience 
and put the shirt back on — all without missing 
a beat.
Amos showed the same onstage confidence when 
she appeared in concert at the Civic Arena last 
Friday night. She treated the audience to a set 
that mixed songs from past albums and from the 
recently released From the Choirgirl Hotel. She 
shifted with ease from fast rock numbers to slower, 
more meditative songs — but her strong yet frag­
ile voice was on display no matter what. In con­
trast to her earlier albums, where Amos’ master- 
-ful piano playing was often the only backup 
instrument, Choirgirl boasts a louder, more ac­
tive band behind her. She’s brought the band on 
tour, which added a twist to some of her earlier 
material, as in “Caught a Light Sneeze” and 
“Past the Mission.”
Yet she didn’t forget the intensely personal 
moments that draw many of her fans in most — 
she dismissed the band and offered the audience 
solo renditions of “Winter” and several other emo­
tionally challenging songs.
Opening for Amos was Unbelievable Truth, an 
unmemorable British band. The crowd seemed 
less than enthused as it waited for this band to 
finish up its set of songs that somehow sounded 
exactly like much other mainstream rock.
The audience soaked up every minute Amos 
was onstage. They cheered at her entrance, as she 
started songs, and even as she introduced the
members of her backup band, and fell respect­
fully silent during her solo numbers.
From her informal chatter between sets, Amos 
obviously felt pretty comfortable with the audi­
ence. She joked about how her piano was sick 
and needed a margarita, and asked whether 
anyone knew where to get a Volkswagen Beetle. 
She also decided that one particular audience 
member looked like Obi-Wan Kenobi from Star 
Wars and told him so, much to the rest of the 
crowd’s amusement.
Amos’brief stopover in Pittsburgh also yielded 
something a bit more tangible than the applause 
of enthusiastic fans. She told the audience that 
the city had provided the backdrop for the cover 
of her upcoming live album, which she shot 
before the concert. The album will include cuts 
from this tour, so if this particular concert was 
any indication, it should be worth standing in 
line for.Writer ends quest for quality Pittsburgh punk
By CLIFF CHIEN
Tartan Staffwriter
I had been waiting for this day to come for four 
months, and it had finally arrived. MxPx’s sense of 
fun songwriting and their knack for love songs has 
made them my favorite pop-punk band. Last Tues­
day at Club Laga, the bands The Get Up Kids, 
Homegrown, and MxPx treated the audience to 
poppy tunes about girls and heartbreak. The open­
ing band, The Get Up Kids, from Kansas City, 
Missouri, showed the audience that emo-pop can 
rock. Even though they were fairly energetic by 
displaying some jumps, they did not have the over­
all push live as they do on their recordings. The Get 
Up Kids’ albums come out with much more energy 
and emotion than what I witnessed last Tuesday.
The next band on the bill, Homegrown, hailing from 
Sunset Beach, California, played light pop-punk tunes. 
The goofy, fun guys from Homegrown always start 
every setwith a punk rendition of Aqua’s “Barbie Girl.” 
They did everything from synchronized butt wiggles, 
to head jerks, to pelvic thrusts with their instruments. 
I don’t think that Homegrown will ever lose their 
immaturity, and that is a good thing.
Finally, the kings of pop-punk, MxPx, strutted out 
to an eagerly waiting audience of 600 with cowboy 
music playing in the background as an introduction 
to the spectacular set lying ahead. This show is the 
first time that they have ever officially played in 
Pittsburgh, and the band was eagerly awaiting the 
crowd’s reaction. The majority of the songs played 
were from the band’s two latest offerings, Life in 
General and Slowly Going the Way of the Buffalo.
Cliff Chien/Tartan Staffwriter Tom Wisniewski and MxPx performed at Laga last Tuesday.
Funny onstage banter about Canadians being slow, 
technical difficulties from their guitar during the 
set, and the aptly named “cardboard cut outs”
(people who don’t move) in the back of the crowd 
made the show more interesting and funny.
The funniest part of the show was when the 
front row crowd would not let the people jumping 
off the stage crowd-surf. They would put their 
arms up and push them back onto the stage. I
to the stage divers that thè 
crowd refused to catch anybody 
except for them.
I spoke with MxPx on the day 
of their show, and they will 
release a 25-track live album, 
recorded in Philadelphia and 
Washington, D.C., hopefully be 
to be released in February.
Mike Herrera, Tom 
Wisniewski, and Yuri Ruleÿ 
have gained national recogni­
tion at young ages and have 
grown phenomenally success­
ful over the years. At the end of 
ninth grade, they played in 
friends’ backyards in their 
hometown of Bremerton, Wash­
ington. During one summer in high school, they 
recorded their first album, Pokinatcha, for Tooth 
and Nail Records.
Their follow-up album, Teenage Politics, was 
recorded spring break of their senior year. The 
day after graduation, MxPx headed out onto the 
road to promote their second release. After that, 
they made their living touring and producing
records. Life in General put them on the track to 
have never witnessed an event like that in all of stardom. Now, signed with the major label A&M
my show-going experiences. The guys in the band 
thought that it was getting too ridiculous and told 
everyone trying to crowd surf to stop because they 
would never break through the front barrier. The 
drummer, Yuri Ruley, and bassist/singer Mike 
Herrera dove into the crowd instead, just to prove
Records, they will have an opportunity to expand 
their enormous fanbase to even greater propor­
tions. I’m sure that MxPx’s hard work, dedica­
tion, and experience will bring them all the suc­
cess and accomplishment they could ever want.

---------------------------------------------------

LIOThe Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 9 November 1998Concerts bring life to campus, city entertainment
Futuristic band combines surf with punk rock
By ANDY FRANCIS
Tartan Staffwriter
At first glance, Man or Astro- 
Man? might appear to be a nov­
elty band, with its bizarre 
spacesuits, insistence on 
otherworldly origin, and unusual 
names. Nevertheless, its combi­
nation of ’60s science fiction with 
the noise of Sonic Youth and the 
surf rock of Dick Dale provides 
for some of indie rock’s most ex­
citing and energetic music. Last 
Tuesday night, it brought its act 
to Rangos Hall in a concert spon­
sored by AB, ripping through 
about a dozen or so songs with 
extreme intensity.
Following uninspiring shows by 
retro-rockers Hi-Fives and Op­
eration Re-Information, who en­
visioned itself as a sort of Devo
for the computer science crowd, 
Man or Astro-Man? made its way 
on stage. Wearing futuristic 
spacesuits, the band was sur­
rounded by televisions, satellites, 
and a projection screen hell-bent 
on educating the audience about 
past years of the space program. 
Man or Astro-Man? wasted no 
time launching into one of its 
surf-punk instrumentals, setting 
the tone for a furious set that 
didn’t slow down until it was time 
to go home. Rapid-fire punk 
chords, surf-rock undertones, and 
slamming drums defined each 
track, although the band made 
some misguided forays into vo­
calization. Often between songs 
the band clowned around, throw­
ing both food and drumsticks into 
the audience and rambling occa­
sionally, antics which proved less
than compelling. In each case, 
though, the band quickly real­
ized it was time to play, and bur­
ied the crowd under another blast 
of music.
Responding to an audience 
member’s request later in the 
show, Man or Astro-Man?’s 
frontman, Coco the Electronic 
Monkey Wizard (really), obliged, 
saying that they had planned to 
take down the tempo for a song. 
Which of course wasn’t true — 
the band’s stock in trade is its 
engaging surf punk, and although 
its songs could have had a numb­
ing effect, the music never be­
came boring, keeping the audi­
ence entertained throughout. 
Man or Astro-Man?’s studio re­
cordings are sometimes unable 
to fulfill their promise, but in 
concert the band displays skill.
Artist tries to stay true to folk, Celtic roots
IRISH, from page L9
traveled to New Orleans to work 
: with producer Malcolm Bum, and 
. his pop background shows in some 
of the tracks on Lohan’s album. 
He has worked with Shawn 
.Colvin and Peter Gabriel, and 
Lohan is pleased with the results 
of their collaboration.
. “We’re both strong-willed 
people, and we worked without 
interference,” she said. “Most of 
the time I was happy to have 
[Bum] do exactly as he feels. He 
has such great ideas.”
; On No Mermaid, Lohan exhibits 
her skill as a songwriter in the 
purest sense. Her focus here is lyri­
cal and structural, and less on in­
ventive instrumentation and the 
affects of many pop artists. Her 
words are polished and straight-
ahead, harkening back to 
songwriters on the caliber of Elvis 
Costello, Sting, or Marvin Gaye. 
Her voice is the power of Paula Cole 
with the grace of Dar Williams.
She sings of decidedly internal 
subjects, rangingfrom confusion, 
to self-consciousness, to disillu­
sionment, all grounded in an em­
bracing imagery. She says in 
“People and Tables”: “Waiting for 
nothing confuses the mind/let­
ting go pieces for no one to find/ 
the smell from the afternoon sits 
in the air/Oh, for a man with no 
back to his chair.” Despite an 
overriding simplicity, her sounds 
run from pop drum loops and 
guitars reminiscent of New Or­
der, to grinding dark ambiance 
and haunting backing vocals.
Lohan travels with a full elec-
tric band, and a slight electronic 
twist.is apparent on some tracks, 
as in “Whatever It Takes.” Lohan 
said she listened to varying in­
fluences, such as Van Morrisson, 
Bob Dylan, and Massive Attack. 
Lohan even opened for folk leg­
end Joan Baez at the Ben & 
Jerry’s Newport Folk Festival 
last year.
Even though Lohan has already 
achieved critical acclaim andmuch 
respect in folk circles and in Ire­
land, that doesn’t mean it will be 
easy for her to make her way in the 
American music scene. She’ll most 
likely have the same trouble of 
other great songwriters — accep­
tance — while still staying tme to 
her craft. But No Mermaid is her 
greatest asset so far, and hope­
fully a prediction for a deep future.
Group members give concert individuality
By BEHNAM FARAHPOUR
Tartan Staffwriter
Cake’s five members entered 
the stage, three wearing hats. 
One was a fisherman, one was 
a cowboy, and one was a skiier. 
Like their wardrobes, each 
member of the California- 
based band brought a distinct 
aspect to their funk-laced 
rockabilly sound last Thurs­
day. Cake performed a set that 
left the audience appreciating 
their inventive lyrics and 
sharp sound.
Despite sparse publicity for 
the show, Cake packed fans into 
Metropol. An unannounced 
Texas band called the Damna­
tions opened for Cake, playing 
songs from their debut album 
due out in February. The four- 
member band played rock songs 
tinged with folk rhythm, which 
complemented Cake’s rougher 
edge. The songs were mostly 
fast, and as it got closer to the 
end of the set their songs picked 
up even more. Even though 
most of the audience was unfa­
miliar with their music, by the 
end of their show, the Damna­
tions had effectively introduced 
their sound.
After the Damnations’ open­
ing, Cake took the stage to a 
raucous welcome. They sang 
songs from all three of their 
records, but they opened with 
songs form their most recent 
album, Prolonging the Magic. 
The crowd was less responsive 
to songs from this and their 
first album, Motorcade of Gen­
erosity, most likely due to unfa­
miliarity. The night’s favorites 
came from the second album,
Fashion Nugget, in “Frank 
Sinatra,” “Italian Leather Sofa,” 
and “Race Car Ya-Ya’s.” Lead 
singer John McCrea kept asking 
the audience to sing along, draw­
ing the crowd into their hilari­
ous, if somewhat obscure, lyrics. 
McCrea’s monotone vocal style
bum, had fans jumping.
“I am a music major, and I 
think the band was really to­
gether/’ said first-year Nicole 
Myers. “I think the trumpet adds 
a lot to their music.”
The band returned to play an 
encore set, starting with their
courtesy CapricornCake played selections from their albums, including Fashion Nugget
was complemented by quirky in­
strumental tones, provided 
mostly by a trumpet and piano.
Throughout the show, Cake 
seemed relaxed and confident. 
Usually bands have a pre-de- 
termined set list, but Cake ap­
parently seemed to shuffle from 
song to song without a plan. 
One of the most popular songs 
that they played, “The Dis­
tance,” from their second al-
rock version of “I Will Survive,” 
which comes across as equally 
rousing as its Gloria Gaynor coun­
terpart. For their last song they 
played an audience request, 
“Jenny,” instead of a song from 
their latest release. They left the 
stage one by one and let the mu­
sic fade out. With an innovative 
sound, Cake gave an impressive 
performance, and left fans call­
ing for more.Festival provides outlet for talent
By CLINTON FIELD
Tartan Staffwriter
Subtitles, independent films, shorts, 
and blazing Hong Kong madness ar­
rived in Pittsburgh last Friday, and they 
will be sticking around for your viewing 
pleasure. Film lovers in Pittsburgh have 
been eagerly awaiting this week since 
last year, anxious to view the new crop 
of foreign and independent American 
films in the 17th Annual Three Rivers 
Film Festival.
“There was no real outlet for films in 
Pittsburgh ... before the Arts Festival, 
Pittsburgh Filmmakers, and the 
Carnegie got together to create [the fes­
tival],” said Andrew Sproule of Pitts­
burgh Filmmakers. The Festival, held 
November 6 to 19, offers a rare opportu­
nity for the local population to see a wide 
mix of films, ranging from unreleased 
classics, to international imports, to new 
American films. Cinema connoisseurs 
can satisfy their appetite for quality 
filmmaking, but not every movie has a 
serious artistic bent. The newest high- 
, action releases from Hong Kong with 
hordes of stunt men and torrents of hot
lead will impress even the most jaded 
Hollywood action fan.
Anyone who loves movies will find 
something to enjoy during the Festival. 
Last Saturday alone, 12 films from seven 
different countries were shown at three 
theaters. Among the offerings was the 
story of an Ontario scrap dealer who 
builds a $150,000 grizzly-proof suit of 
armor (Project Grizzly), an examination 
of a 17th century French painter perse­
cuted for being a female artist (Aremisia), 
and a re-release of Akira Kurosawa’s 
masterpiece Rashomon. Missing one day 
of the Festival won’t mean missing these 
films completely, though. Most of the 
films will appear on several different 
days at different theaters, allowing au­
diences to attend the screenings that 
they want without missing anything.
Not all of the benefits go to the audi­
ences; the filmmakers themselves profit 
from the exposure. “Appearing in a fes­
tival like this one gets independent film­
makers into a festival... and allows their 
work to be seen by a distributor,” said 
Sproule. Independent films often don’t 
have the financing to be directly pre­
sented to large audiences, so film festi-
vals like this one play a crucial part in an 
independent film’s life.
Although many of the showings dur­
ing the Festival will come from estab­
lished foreign and independent filmmak­
ers, a significant number will be the 
products of newer and less experienced 
independent directors, screenwriters, 
and producers. For them, this festival 
might be an opportunity to demonstrate 
their talent to receptive audiences and 
potential distributors.
For both filmmakers and local audi­
ences the Festival presents an opportu­
nity to share their love of cinema. Movie 
fans have a rare selection of treats to 
sample over the next few weeks.
The Three Rivers Film Festival will 
continue for the next two weeks, with 
films being screened daily. The Harris 
Theater, 809Liberty Avenue, Downtown; 
the Melwood Screening Room, 477 
Melwood Avenue, North Oakland; and 
the Regent Square Theater, 1035 South 
Braddock Avenue, Edgewood will be 
showing simultaneously. Tickets cost six 
dollars and can be bought before 
each screening.Comedian waters down his identities
By ANTHONY CHAO
Tartan Photo Editor
Comedian Adam Sandler has taken 
on many identities in his film career. 
Sandler, as Bobby Boucher, a.k.a. Billy 
Madison, a.k.a. Happy Gilmore, a.k.a. 
Robbie Hart, stars in the new movie The 
Waterboy with Henry Winkler, a.k.a. 
the Fonz. Bobby is a socially inept 31- 
year-old from the deep swamps of Loui­
siana. Kathy Bates, a.k.a. the psycho in 
Misery, plays Bobby’s overprotective 
mother who refuses to let him have any 
contact with the outside world, other 
than being a waterboy for a local college 
football team. Despite another notable 
identity for Sandler, and some humor­
ous minor characters, The Waterboy is 
one to wait for on video.
The coach of the local team, who lets 
the entire team pick on Bobby, fires 
him. Bobby solitics another coach, 
Coach Kline (Winkler), at an even 
smaller college, and the players pick 
on him again. He is a bit neurotic in his 
waterboy habits — he whips out a 
plastic cup from his jacket pocket and 
offers Kline water from a container on 
his belt. Winkler encourages Bobby to 
fight back, and Bobby takes his years
of pent up rage and turns 
himself into the most dev­
astating tackier on the 
team. But in order for 
Bobby to stay on the team, 
he must learn how to play 
football as well as go to 
college, all behind his 
mama’s back.
The minor characters are 
where this film shines. Along 
the way Bobby meets his 
“girlfriend,” Vicki (Fairuza 
Balk), who will do anything, 
including threatening 
people, to help Bobby get 
what he needs to become the
© 1998 Touchstone A player squirts Bobby Boucher in The Waterboy.
MVP on the football team and stay in 
school. The movie is filled with hilarious 
stereotypes of people from “the South,” 
includingthe fat and dirty assistant coach, 
Farmer Fran, who speaks with a thick 
Cajun accent that no one can under­
stand, and Mama Boucher, who 
barbeques alligators and snakes for din­
ner. Kline, who is also an unconfirmed 
homosexual, admits to often hiding un­
der his desk and crying like a schoolgirl, 
and shows the audience his tattoo of Roy 
Orbison. One of Bobby’s teammates has 
crossed eyes and the intelligence level of
second grader.
The movie really didn’t have any high 
points, but the brutal scenes of Bobby 
tackling helpless quarterbacks with his 
feet are quite amusing.
In order for you to enjoy this movie you 
need to appreciate Adam Sandler hu­
mor. Or at least understand it and not 
expect too much from the movie at all. 
The Waterboy was entertaining but 
lacked sophistication and a truly believ­
able story. But it was still hilarious, so 
save your eight dollars and wait for 
the video.
Scenery provides good backdrop for poor play
By LARITA Y. HAMILTON
Tartan Assistant Diversions Editor
The University of Pittsburgh’s re­
cent production of Tennessee Will­
iams’ Cat on a Hot Tin Roof left its 
audience bored and restless. It wasn’t 
the lack of established, well-written 
material, nor the absence of effective 
lighting and scenery. What made this 
play difficult to watch was the forced 
and unbelievable portrayal of South­
ern life, or life itself for that matter.
Williams’ classic play shows a 
Southern family coping with the 
impending death of the patriarch, 
Big Daddy. Lies and deception wrack 
this family, but the truth is eventu­
ally revealed. Despite the fact that 
the play deals with the family as a 
unit, each character has to look out 
for their own well-being in order to 
survive. Difficult choices are the hall­
mark of this play, because every 
choice made effects not only the char­
acter who has made the choice, but 
those around him or her. It creates 
interesting conflict and is very 
thought-provoking.
Scene designer Stephanie Miller did 
an excellent job of creating a Southern 
feel in one set. Small touches, like the 
ceiling fan and the crooked slats of the 
blinds, created the intimacy of a home. 
Donald Robert Fox did an equally 
impressive job with the lighting. The 
rich colors used were effective in both 
representing artificial light in the room 
where the action took place and the 
phases of light and darkness outside. 
Together, both components painted a 
picture of Southern life, which was a 
stark contrast to the action that took 
place on the stage.
The actors’ attempts to convey con­
vincing Southern mannerisms were 
not compelling. Kristen Quinn, as 
Maggie, sounded like a Yankee trying 
to imitate a Dixieland drawl, as did 
most of the cast. Her lines began to get
Brick (Brian J. Gill) had few lines, and 
as a character, he didn’t convey much 
either. Instead of speaking his scant 
lines with believable emotion, Gill was 
pre-occupied with acting like he was 
drunk. Though the alcoholism was an 
important part of Brick’s character, 
there was no reason why the audience 
should have been cheated out of any 
other facets of his life. Gill showed 
little or no reaction to the events around 
him, which defeated the purpose of
courtesy University of Pittsburgh Williams’ play will run until November 19.
him being on stage.
Big Daddy (Emilio Robles) brought 
much-needed energy to the stage dur­
ing the second and third acts. He would 
never be pinned as being from the 
Mississippi Delta with that Southern 
accent of his, but it came across less 
garbled than others. Even with Rob­
les’ presence, the play lulled on and 
was rather tedious to watch.
The tagging between lines was slow 
and lacked pacing. Every twist of the 
plot was forced. The cast members 
knew how the play was going to end
and they seemed to make that their 
monotonous after the first act. There goal rather than concentrating on dis-
was no variation in her words, so ev­
ery line sounded the same. Quinn’s 
portrayal of Maggie came across as 
spineless and whiny. It got old quickly, 
and she seemed to be a nuisance both 
to the audience and the other actors.
Despite the fact that he’s dealing 
with the imminent death of his father,
covery throughout the play.
This production of Cat on a Hot Tin 
.Roo/Tailed to be effective. It was three 
hours of tedium the audience could 
have done with out. Perhaps if the 
lighting and setting hadn’t been so 
well done, the rest of the play wouldn’t 
have seemed so poor.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 9 November 1998LU
DH 2210
movies you may have seen before..
EMILY LANDES
Thursday, November 12
Zentropa
It wouldn’t be entirely correct to say that Leo, the 
protagonist in this film, is naive. Sure, it probably 
isn’t the smartest idea to leave America and visit 
relatives in Germany immediately after their sur­
render in 1945. And yes, it’s odd that he doesn’t 
seem to notice that the train company he works for 
transported Jews to concentration camps during 
the war. Now that I think of it, it is sort of hard to 
believe that he wouldn’t see that his girlfriend and 
her family are a part of the “Wolverines,” a blood­
thirsty group of Nazis who are unwilling to accept 
German/s surrender. I mean, you’d think he’d at 
least pick up on something after those bodies turn 
up on the train. So, you see, I wouldn’t really call 
him naive, per se. He’s just an absolute moron.
At 10 pm and midnight
In McConomy
Friday, November 13
The Negotiator
In this film, directed by P. Gary Grey (Set it Off), 
Chicago’s top hostage negotiator (Samuel L. Jack­
son) is framed for murder and theft. So, in an effort 
to prove his innocence in a suitably ironic fashion, 
he decides to take some hostages himself. Since he 
thinks that members of his own department are the 
ones who set him up, he is only willing to talk to an 
outside negotiator (Kevin Spacey) who is as well- 
known as he is. Over the course of the film, each 
negotiator tries to gain the trust of the other, while 
trying not to detract too much attention from all the 
stuff getting blown up. Also, Jackson and Spacey 
compete to see who can be the most deadpan, with 
Spacey the unequivocal winner.
At 7:30,10 pm, and 12:30 am
In McConomy
Saturday, November 14
Lethal Weapon 4
What started out in 1987 as a simple buddy cop 
movie has grown to an enormous ensemble. In this 
fourth installment of the series, the grand total 
includes: two buddy cops, one angry commanding 
officer, one criminal-turned-private eye, two preg­
nant women, one new detective, one kick-ass martial 
artist, an adopted Chinese family, and a partridge in 
a pear tree. No wonder the tag line reads, “The 
Gang’s All Here.” In this adventure, “the gang” is 
working hard to foil the plans of an evil Chinese 
general who has been bringing Chinese families into 
the U.S. to work in sweatshops. Is it just me, or are 
they running out of enemies? I hear that the next 
Lethal Weapon involves having “the gang,” which 
will include a nun, four frightened teenagers, and 
the Taco Bell Chihuahua, fight against an evil 
potato chip manufacturer who hopes to destroy di­
gestive tracts around the world by spiking all of his 
products with large quantities of Olean.
At 7:30,10 pm, and 12:30 am
In McConomy
Sunday, November 15
Strange Brew
Warning: This movie shows mass consumption 
of an alcoholic beverage consisting of fermented 
grains, known commonly as beer. It also shows 
mass quantities of “Our Neighbors to the North,” 
known commonly as Canadians. The combination 
of these two components has been known to have 
disorienting effects on viewers. But, don’t be afraid 
of words like “hoser” and sentences that end in “eh?” 
Just let yourself get wrapped up in this compelling 
story of two brothers, Bob and Doug McKenzie, as 
they fight off mad brewery owners, mental pa­
tients, and two vicious hockey teams, all in the 
pursuit of free beer.
At 8, 10 pm, and midnight
In McConomy
^Critical Corner"ir Use as frisbee
Tînîr Less than average 
Buy it used
Recommended 
Own this •
Alanls Morlssette
Supposed Former Infatuation Junkie — 
Maverick
I have to say, my knowledge of Alanis 
Morissette’s music extends only so far as I’ve 
heard about her hand in her pocket and 
jagged little pills on the radio. That was all 
the exposure I had before being handed her
courtesy Maverick
newest recording on the Maverick label, Sup­
posed Former Infatuation Junkie.
I admit I wanted to criticize her music as 
formulaic and unsophisticated, two criticisms 
non-pop music listeners often have for popu­
lar music. But, there are advantages to hear­
ing the whole album and not just the hits over 
the radio. At this point, I have some conces­
sions to make. Morissette is a powerful, stun­
ning poet. She also has a good ear for catchy 
musical ideas and motifs, and knows how to 
use her unusual voice to express the unusu­
ally strong level of emotion written in her 
words. All these characteristics of her work 
carry over into this new album.
Despite those qualities, though, the listen­
ing I’ve done to both this newest album and 
Jagged Little Pill has made me appreciate 
the earlier album more and understand the 
weaknesses of this album in ways I wouldn’t 
notice otherwise. The songs in Supposed have 
a tendency to sound similar in a way that is 
not so present in her previous recording. She 
tries to combat that by exploring new ways to 
express the resounding anger and bitterness 
present in so much of her poetry, using disso­
nance and instrumentation slightly differ­
ently than before, as in the harsh opening of 
“Baba” or the string arrangements on “That 
I Would Be Good” and “Are You Still Mad?” 
The problem is, she gets caught up with this 
experimenting. She leaves the listener with 
quite a few songs all conforming to a pattern 
of twisted half-spoken verse and unmelodic 
background, then a dynamically and instru- 
mentally separate chorus, sometimes too sepa­
rate, each idea alternating with no variation. 
In this case, formula, a weakness of many 
popular artists, seems to manifest, itself, and 
my first instinct to criticize wasn’t too far off.
The greatest strength of her work — her 
writing — is one that not all popular music 
artists can claim. There is some music on this 
album that holds its own. Combine that with 
the continuing support of masterful, gripping
lyrics and it’s hard to tell how popular audi­
ences will receive it. Most likely, they will 
greet it with the esteem it deserves, but 
without the same level of obsession her last 
album achieved. —MELISSA McMAHON
Beck
Mutations— DGC
It makes sense that Beck would subvert 
the “bigger is better” theory that bands sub­
scribe to after a successful album. And in­
deed, following his boundary-stretching mas­
terpiece Odelay, he returns with a quieter, 
more intimate album, titled Mutations, which 
Beck himself describes as “space-age folk 
rock.” Although it lacks Odelay’s sample- 
heavy, pop-collage sound, it retains much of 
the inventiveness that has made Beck one of 
the most acclaimed artists of the decade.
Mutations strips down nearly every ele­
ment of Beck’s sound: electric guitars give 
way to folk strumming, simple drums re­
place complex rhythms, and Beck foregoes 
distorted or rapped vocals in favor of a plain­
tive vocal style. Lyrically, the album is more 
consistent than past efforts, with low-key 
efforts like the gloomy “Cold Brains” and the 
apologetic “Nobody’s Fault but My Own.” As 
the title suggests, Beck’s sound has under­
gone a change as well, as sitars, pianos, and 
acoustic guitars blend together to give each 
song a unique identity. “Tropicalia,” a trib­
ute to the Brazilian musical style of the same 
name, adds a bossa nova shuffle and horns to 
the mix, while the stunning “Bottle of Blues” 
hinges on a melancholy country-rock hook.
Beck’s critical laurels can, in large part, be 
attributed to his unrelenting pursuit of mu­
sical ideas and the musicianship to back 
them up. Mutations is no exception. This 
time out, rather than reshaping the musical 
landscape, Beck has demonstrated the skills 
to even take folk music into the next 
millenium. — ANDY FRANCIS
ing vocals galore. Other than songs like “Do 
You Wanna Get Heavy,” with its acoustic 
guitar and beatboxing, and the techno-blues 
of “Attack,” this album fails to break much 
new ground. Much of the album can be rep­
resented by tracks such as “High Gear,” 
which gives the work a sadly forgettable 
sound, especially if the listener is familiar 
with the group’s earlier work.
The Jon Spencer Blues Explosion is cer­
tainly not at the nadir of its creative cycle, 
but it is also not, as the title of its wbrk 
claims, at its acme either.
— ROB JEFFERSON
Lynryd Skynyrd
Skynyrd’s First — MCA
It is not unlikely to hear somebody shout 
“Play some Skynyrd!” at a concert, regard­
less of whether or not Lynyrd Skynyrd' is 
actually present. One way or another, every­
one has probably heard of Lynyrd Skynyrd, 
at least inadvertently. The legendary ’70s 
Southern rock band is still going strong, with 
this new release of early recordings, Skynrd’s 
First: The Complete Muscle Shoals Albufn.
The legend of the band, as well as that of its 
surviving members, has continued on in 15 
albums since a fatal plane crash took three of 
its members’ lives in 1977. Skynyrd’s First is 
a 17-song studio recording collection that 
shows the band’s talent and southern roots 
from before they became an American rock 
standard. Recorded from 1970-72 at the 
Muscle Shoals Sound Studios in Sheffield, 
Alabama, the album contains nine original 
versions including “Free Bird” and “Give Me 
Three Steps,” as well as six previously 
unreleased tracks.
Skynyrd’s First is a strong album as a
Jon Spencer Blues Explosion
Acme — Matador
“This is blues power!” With these words, 
the new Jon Spencer Blues Explosion album, 
Acme, begins. It is unfortunate, however, 
that the power of the blues is being used to 
make music according to a formula.
Much of this album is dedicated to music 
that sounds like Blues-Explosion-by-num- 
ber. The quirky song forms are still here, 
along with the blues and R&B 
deconstructions that made the group famous. 
Spencer is still as swaggering and bombastic 
as ever, seeming almost cartoonish in his 
effort to be a cross between Muddy Waters 
and Elvis Presley.
There are some new elements, such as 
guest scratching by the Automator, the raw- 
edged recording from Steve Albini and back-
LYNYRD SKYNYRD
SKYNYRD’SI!;
whole, from its mix of blues and rock to the 
impressive guitar playing. It is, however, 
remarkably similar to a nine-track Skynyrd 
album released in 1978 of the same recording 
sessions, titled Skynyrd’s First and Last. 
The 1998 album is great for the die-hard 
Skynyrd fan who must have every song and 
album the band ever made. The moderate 
Skynyrd fan who just likes a little “Sweet 
Home Alabama” might want to stick with a 
greatest hits album. — LEANN STOSSELLFlamboyant group performs retro-funk
ANTICS, from page L9
formed a rather singular show. 
Perhaps McConomy Auditorium 
was the worst place for such a 
band, since its brand of indie rock 
and funk was designed for danc­
ing, not sitting and head-nodding. 
Realizing this venue problem, lead 
singer Calvin Johnson invited 
people to come down to the stage 
and dance, and several audience 
members followed his cue.
There were only a few songs 
played during the hour-long set; 
most of the material consisted of 
extrapolations of songs from 
their albums “Boot Party” andits 
latest, “Out of Your Mind.” Occa­
sionally, this re-hasing led to a 
bit of monotony — the backing 
band seemed stuck in a groove, 
and Johnson’s improvised lyrics 
sometimes lacked direction. 
What the band lacked in origi­
nality, it made up for in show­
manship. Johnson’s unique bari­
tone, combined with the retro- 
funk sound of the backing band 
and the energy the entire group 
provided, was enough to propel 
the audience into dancing.
It was nearly midnight when the 
set ended, but not before the guitar 
was replaced with a keyboard and 
Dub Narcotic played an extended 
version of “Shake A Puddin’.” The
music was enough to keep people 
moving; even those who didn’t want 
to dance were grooving in their 
seats along to the beat. Johnson 
danced throughout the audience 
during the song, coming back down 
to the stage to end the show.
While the show was far from 
the best of the year, the promot­
ers at AB made some strong 
choices, and this show was cer­
tainly worth the money and time.
IN THE REAL WORLD
We understand that your goals for 
graduate school are more than aca­
demic.
While you expect outstanding schol­
arship, you also demand a program 
that will prepare you to thrive in a world 
of very real and very rapid change.
A graduate degree from the Univer­
sity of Michigan School of Information 
provides the training you'll need to lead 
the future of information systems and 
services in every sector of society.
In our dynamic, two-year master's program,
School of Information
University of Michigan 
734.763.2285
students from diverse academic back­
grounds like humanities, computer sci­
ence, social sciences, and math gain 
direct access to our world-class faculty 
and facilities. Challenging internships 
in leading corporate and nonprofit or­
ganizations help you tailor your studies 
with practical expertise for the digi­
tal age. And our Innovative doctoral 
program prepares you for a research 
career In this emerging discipline.
Graduate Studies in Information 
www.si.umich.edu
INFORMATION

---------------------------------------------------

ZentiopH
will be playing at 7:30.10, pm, 
and 12:30 am on jhurscay in 
McConon-.y .Auditorium,
The Negotiator
will be playing at 8.10 pm/and 
midnight on Friday in McConomy 
Auditorium,.,
Lethal Weapon IV
will be plajing on Saturday 
at 7:30,10 pm. anti 12:30 am 
in McConomy Auditorium.
Strange Brew
•will be playing on Sunday 
at 8.10 pm. and micnignt in 
McConomy Auditorium.
Reaching for the Moon
will be playing at 8:pm 
on Saturday and at 7 pm 
. on Sunday, at the . 
Carnegie MuseLm of Art.
Everest
is playing in the OmnimaA at 
the Carnegie Science Center 
each day at 11 am. noon, 1.2. 
3,4. and 5 pm andjlso at 8 
¦ and 10 pm on Friday and 
Saturday through December 10.
For up-to-date campus movie 
times, call X8-FLMS.
tom'fìmbcr S. 1998November 15. 1998
Ivan,
The tales of horror 
which make up your 
life do not interest 
me. Please refrain 
from speaking to me 
ever again. Maybe you 
should talk to my 
cousin, lcabod. He is 
into hanging out with 
stupid people.
-Igor
The debugger will 
find the errors.
Spock is no 
fun...unless he is 
pulling all-nighters.
bubs,
thanks for the care, 
love,
You know, Jeff should 
not be poking around 
in stuff that doesn’t 
belong to him.
Shooooooooooooooooo
0000000000000000000
00000000000
Those mushy carrots 
stick to the walls real­
ly well.The yellow 
beans tend to split 
apart on contact. And 
the green ones? Well, 
they’re boring. But you 
can find the missing 
cap in the brown bag.
populi
Advertise for free in The Tartan!
If you know of an event on- or off-campus 
Wat has relevance to the campus community 
or human computers in’general, feel free to 
email auyoung&cmu.edu or mail it to The 
Tàrtan. Box 17 in the Carnegie Mellon « 
University Center by the Wednesday before 
the Sunday before the event.
Vox Populi is a forum open to the entire 
campus community! To submit a vox, simply 
email it to auyoung9cmu.edu. send it to The 
Tartan. Box 17 via campus mail, or drop It in 
the Vox Populi drop box on the ultra-quick 
Tartan Server.
Legos are fun. Really. Mr. Vox went out 
and got a kit the other day that comes with 
1,201 pieces. And then he went out and 
bought a big flat board so that he can do 
some modelling. Sounds pretty cool, huh? He 
also got a spaceman. Spiff will be his name. 
Legos are spiffy.
Ever since freshman year, the one thing that they have been 
saying to you over and over is that if by any circumstances 
your roommate should find the end of his or her existence, 
you'll be awarded an automatic 4.0 for the rest of the semes­
ter. Sounds too good to be true? That's because it probably is.
Well, that and the fact that not too many people have tried. It 
doesn't mean that everybody has a good roommate.
There's that old adage that "friends don't make 
good roommates." So maybe enemies make the 
best roommates. Think about it. You never talk to 
each other. You wouldn't touch each other's things.
It's terrible when your roommate thinks that they can 
touch your stuff whenever they want. Maybe they'll 
unplug your Ethernet because they think that you're playing 
too many video games or take your book because they're in the 
same class and didn't bother to buy their own. Maybe they'll 
conveniently lock you out of the room, or better yet, lock you into 
the bathroom. But it's always in good fun, isn't it? It's always fun 
until someone gets poked in the eye or stabbed in the arm with a pen­
cil. Everybody has their roommate horror stories. Big deal. You only 
have the rest of the year to go with your roommates until you get to 
decide if you want to share a room with that Russian buddy of yours again 
Well, that is, if your roommate survives the year.oncampus
Nature Walk is held weekly on Sundays 
at 4 pm. Come explore Schenley Park and 
the surrounding areàs. Meet on the steps 
in front of the main entrance to CFA.
Sweepstakes, also known as Buggy, will 
be holding freeroll practices each 
Saturday and Sunday morning through 
November 15. Tech and Frew Streets, as 
well as the portion of Schenley Drive sur­
rounding Flagstaff Hill, will be closed 
from 6 to 9 am on those mornings. 
Community members are asked to find 
alternate routes and parking areas 
around campus. Cars left in the métered 
areas at 6 am on those dates will be towed 
at the owner’s expense.
Kaffeestunde. Speak German with us! 
Join students and faculty for informal 
conversation in German at the 
Kaffeestunde, on Tuesdays from 3:30 to 5 
pm in Skibo Coffeehouse. People with all 
levéls of speaking ability are welcome to 
attend. For more information, email Anne 
Green at amgreen@andrew.cmu.edu.
The French Table will take place every 
Wednesday evening from 5 to 6 pm in 
Skibo Coffeehouse. Everyone is invited to 
come and speak French with other peo­
ple. For information, call the Department 
of Modern Languages or Professor 
Rockmore at rockmore@andrew.cmu.edu.
Admission is free. Meet members of the 
ensemble, see the instruments, and listen 
to a small part of the repertoire they are 
preparing for their spring concert. For 
more information, call’ 624-4125.
Uzeda, Paul Newman, and Arab on 
Radar will play on Sunday at 8 pm in 
the Connan Room. Tickets are $3 with 
CMU ID and $6 without. The show is 
being sponsored by AB Coffeehouse.museums
River City Brass Band will perform An 
American Thanksgiving on Saturday at 8 
pm in Carnegie Lecture Hall. The show 
will feature music written by the likes of 
John Philip Söüsa, Henry Fillmore, and 
more. Also, Pittsburgh City Councilman 
Sala Udin will narrate Aaron Copland’s A 
Lincoln Portrait. For additional informa­
tion, call 322-7222.
Renaissance and Baroque Society pre­
sent La Luna, a quartet of Baroque 
instrumentalists, in Sprezzature, a pro­
gram of Italian variations, sonatas, and 
fantasias for strings and harpsichord on 
November 21 at 8 pm in Synod Hall. The 
performance will include works of 
Frescobaldi, Castello, and more. Tickets 
for both shows range from $8 to $30 and 
can be purchased at the Pitt Student 
Union or by calling 682-7262.
Gamelan Ensemble invites the public to 
its annual Open House on Wednesday at 7 
pm in Bellefield Hall, room 309 at Pitt.
Hewlett Gallery présents Mother 
Tongue I Name of the Land, an exhibit by 
Satoru Takahashi, visiting professor of 
art, and Keiko Kurachi, through 
November 22. Like a sequel to Takahashi 
and Kurachi’s work at the 1998 Three 
Rivers Art Festival, the exhibit addresses 
the borders between image and language, 
body and mind, imagination and reality, 
family and nation, and the you and me. 
The installation will include photomon­
tage, wood, steel, clay sculptures, and 
more. Admission to the gallery is free. For 
additional information, call Robert 
Capaldi atx8-3877.
Viaduct Studio presents Visiting Hours, 
a Warehouse Workshop Open House feau- 
ring Virtual Motion, Ray Gerard, Sherries 
Flick, and more, on. Saturday from 1 to 7 
pm. For additional information, call Rick 
at 201-1617.
talks/lectures
Managing Library Facilities to Avert 
Disaster. This workshop will take place 
on Tuesday from 9 am to 12:30 pm in 
Carnegie Lecture Hall' This program is 
being sponsored by Oakland Library 
Consortium, lb register, or for more infor­
mation, call x8-6622.
Promoting your Health: It takes a 
Lifestyle; It takes a Will; It takes 
Knowledge is a forum being given by Dr. 
Lester Breslow, a Porter Prize recipient, 
on Tuesday at 3 pm in Carnegie Music 
Hall. The Porter Prize is a $25,000 hono­
rarium awarded to a local or national fig­
ure for outstanding and exemplary per­
formance in the field of health promotion. 
To make reservations, call 566-6010.
Time Management: The Balancing 
Act, the next part of the Graduate 
Student Seminar Series, will take place 
on Thursday from noon to 1:30 pm in the 
Peter Wright-McKenna room in the UC. 
Registration deadline is November 9. The
talk will give some good, solid advice on 
how to better manage time. Lunch will be 
served. To register, call Kathleen 
Minadeo Johnson at x8-7970 or email her 
at kmj@andrew.cmu.edu.
Barbara Smith, a political activist and 
self-described black feminist writer will 
give a talk about social justice and diver­
sity at 8:15 pm on Tuesday in the English 
Nationality Room in the Cathedral of 
Learning. The talk, titled “The Truth 
That Never Hurts: Diversity versus 
Social Justice,” is free and open to the 
public. Smith is an independent scholar 
and editor whose articles and essays have 
appeared in publications like The New 
York Times Book Review, Ms., and The 
Village Voice. For more information, call 
Teresa Thomas at x8-3580.
Erica Jong, best known for her work 
Fear of Flying, will ask and answer the 
provocative question “What do Women 
Want?” on November 16 at 7:30 pm in 
Carnegie Music Hall. For more informa­
tion, call 622-8866.
Ismail/Tartan Art Staff 
at 3 pm in Room 609 in the William Pitt 
Union and at 7:45 pm at Hillel. Jewish 
learning will follow the meeting. For more 
information, call Hillel at 621-8875.
Can You Be an American Zionist? is
the topic of a Shabbat dinner and services 
at 6 pm at Hillel. For more information, 
call Hillel at 621-8875.
aroundtown
Roman Catholic Mass takes place on 
Sundays at 10:30 am and 8 pm in Mellon 
Auditorium, Posner Hall. It also takes 
place daily at 12:30 pm in the UC Chapel. 
For more information, contact the Ryan 
Catholic Newman Center at 681-3181.
Kristallnacht, an event sponsored by 
Hillel with a Holocaust survivor and 
German students, will take place tonight 
at 8:30 pm on the William Pitt Union 
Porch. For more information about this, 
call Hillel at 621-8875.
Graduate Bible Study will be dis­
cussing some of the Advent readings from 
the Common Lectionary. The first study 
of this series will be on November 18 at 
4:30 pm in the Pake Room in the UC. The 
section of study yvill be Isaiah 2:1-5. For 
additional information, contact David 
Laughlih at x8-2706.
Choral Compline will be performed in 
the Heinz Chapel on the University of 
Pittsburgh campus every Sunday evening 
at 8:30 pm. Dr. James Noakes of St. Paul 
Cathedral will join the Pittsburgh 
Compline Choir as guest organist in 
music for Prayer at the Close of the Day. 
For information, call 682-6882 or go to 
http:llwww.pitt.edul~psalmlcompline.html.
Hillel will be holding an. informational 
meeting about Israel trips on Thursday
Sierra Club is having their monthly 
meeting on Wednesday at 7:30 pm at the 
Pittsburgh Civic Garden Center. Bob Tait 
will be giving a talk and slide show on “A 
National Scenic Trail: The North Country 
Trail — the ‘Other AT.’ ” The meeting is 
open to the public. For more information, 
call Sam Hays at 421-6560.
Off the Walls is a disappearing exhibi­
tion in which more than 250 works by 
regional artists are available for purchase 
right off of the walls of the Pittsburgh 
Center for the Arts. This fund-raiser rims 
from Friday through December 24. The 
work included ranges from paintings to 
jewelry, ceramics to fiberarts, and photog­
raphy to sculpture, with most pieces 
priced at $300 or less. Extended holiday 
hours are 10 am to 8 pm, Monday 
through Friday, 10 am to 6 pm on 
Saturday, and noon to 6 pm on Sunday. 
For more information, call 361-0873.
Copyright for Musicians and 
Composers is a free workshop conducted 
by ProArts’ Volunteer Lawyers for the 
Arts that will take place on December 6 
from 10 am to noon at the Carnegie 
Library. Tb register or for more informa­
tion, call the library at 622-3105.
Artists & Taxes: A Seminar for 
Individual Artists is a ProArts work­
shop presented by Schneider Downs & 
Co., Inc., CPAs on December 8 from 6 to 9 
pm at the Pittsburgh Center for the Arts. 
Registration is $10. To register or for 
information, call ProArts at 391-2060.
Apple Hill Playhouse continues its sea­
son with the holiday smash Inspecting 
Carol, through November 21. Everything 
that could go wrong during this acting 
company’s production of A Christmas 
Carol does.. Tickets range from $8 to $13. 
For additional information, call the the­
ater at (724)468-5050.
