ntZSHMAM ALL-OASSZOIE DASOE 
ASSESSMENT—*160 
nt iS FBIDAY .0:00-1:00
. FDTH WIMC1T THM1U CAMPAIO*
........ WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 6
-------SALESMEN IN ALL SCHOOLS ——
VOL. XXI NO. 15CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, 1927
HARMON’S OR­
CHESTRA AT 
JUNIOR PROM
Schenley Hotel Chosen by 
Committee as Site For ’27 
Formal Affair January 28
2nd SALE NEXT WEEK
favors Havo Been Chosen and 
Supper Planned By * 
Committee.
Negotiations are being complet­ed for, ¿he ...securing ot tbe tar» lamed. Dave Harmon's Orchestra ^-equally, far-famed.. Junior
. States'• would bo none to good io* -tbe exacting persons "who will at*.- tend tbe Junior Prom, but It eeema to be ani, assured fact that even these will', be enthralled by tbe melodious muelngs of Dave Har­mon's'boys.
This . 12-plece orcheatra, which will play at the Grand ilurlbg Jan­uary, baa been very prominent. lor several. years. During this past year they bave played for Oblo State, University of Pennslvani* and Coniell Prom6. : Harman’s 1N a. Victor'Recording, Orchestra,.and at present’la making a",tour of the' country.- They have been secured tor the From at great expense.
There will L many who .will be glad to hear, for Various reasons, that the Hotel Schenley will be the scene of this ball supreme. The committee in charge baB chosen the Schenley,' because, in addition to %eing near the. campus. It is equally suitable for ' the' occasion. The Carnegie ^atmosphere" le al- ways^present at_ thevSc^nley.
e g •' particularly ' - delightful little bit or leather, or perhaps It is of silver, has been-cbosen as tbe fav­or for the Junior Prom. Every member, on the committee has been known to rave for hours at the mere -mention of tbe word favor. It is quite evident, that, out of a brainstorm, hallucination, or ment­al gymnastic of some kind; some­one evolved this Idea foT a favor; But though they all talk willingly and.'enthneiistlcally,'. they are re­ticent1 to,-tlv6-©xtr*ine^Jciian,_il 
comes .to,-Identifying, tfie object It seems, then, that the only 'other prerogatlve'would be to attend and 
find out.tale
which' tlme the red tags will be exchanged. - The sale of these red -tegp has- been ptomtqlng, bue 
undivided support has been mlBS- Ing. Jo make the Prom the suc­cess 1t. àlways has 'been, and, we' hope. It always will be. early In­terest muet be lo evidence. The most Infallible way to show this Is to purchase tbe • preliminary 
tickets early.: A swarm of committeemen stay­ed here-.durlng the .¡CfctlBtwas.va­cation, and slept, and-lived at the Hotel Schenley kitchen. For wby? Just this—they spent ell of that time- Inveigling, bribing," threaten­ing and otherwise coaxing the poor haggled chefs of the Schen­ley to exert themselves to the ut­most In formulating new and en­ticing bits of edible . The supper thla year according to the commit­tee, will .not bei huge enough to satisfy a rapacious appetite,, but promises lo be of the highest quality. Thus It will be seen that the Junior Pròm of 1927 will In­deed live up to the glorious fame of Its predecessors. Last year’s ball will ring' through the ages in tbe memories of those who attend­ed. Omens present and .the spirit evidenced this year' roakei it a very evident fact that the class of ’28 . will hold, a i+bm that even sur­passes last year’s..Tbe personnel of tbe general committee, and that ot thè subcom­mittee, is. such that , success is the only possible resùtL At 'present tho busiest member Is: Mark Sei­bert in charge of ticket sales.A final work or xtwo. ’Die date la'January 26,-tbe'end of the..sec­ond semester,. which implies too that exams-Wlll have, been finished. Thè 'place ia'tho Hotel Schenley.
•. Tho Girls’ Glee Clab.of Margaret Morrison have, planned many con* certs for the month of January. On January 22, the members of .the club -will sing' rln:' the Margaret 
Morrison Assembly Room, when 
tbe girls from the neighboring high schools •; will- be- entertained. Con­
certs will also be given’at the Ma* ride Hospltal and the Veteran’s Hospital In. Asplnwall.' The! girls will appear at a Cbapel service In the near future. Several other'coh- certs .are being arranged, the dates 
and places to be announced later.The officers of ‘the Glee Clab urge every member to he present at tbe rebearBal on Tuesday, Janu­ary-4. at. 4:30,- since good rehear­sals are necessary to the success of (he January pfogrnm. '
Inter-Frat Formal 
At Scheniey Hotel
Prince of Wales Orchestra 
Obtained by Committee . 
For Inter-Frat Hop
The annual Inter-fraternity for­
mal, which will be held at the 
Schenley Hotel ballroom February 
16.'Is to be featured by a banquet 
during the course of the evening. The committee In charge of the dance have made the necessary ar­rangements for the repast. - It is to. be à véry elaborate feast. The price'has beeh'BBt at a dollar and a half per plate. Thla Is a very nominal charge, as the banquet will cost 'the committee about three dollars per plate. The dif­ference will be taken from the Bale of ducalB for the dance Itself, which are live dollars.
February 18 should see the Bch&njey ballroom thronged with fraternity men and their partners. TJte committee. baB carefully plan­ned every detail necessary to a successful formal and, .have kept the admission and banquet levies down to a minimum. Music will be furnlsbed by the' Prince of Wales orchestra of Soph-Hop famé. They need no recommendation for we swayed to tbelr syncopation the night of the sophomore-dance.
George PetUcord, Bdta Theta PI fraternity, In charge .of refresh, ments; Stanley .-Abbot,' Alpha, ,Tau Omego fraternity,- music -master;^ Earl ‘ Bobel^ Slgma 5hl - Epsilons ‘fa.vor'men':' 'Bob "Sbreve, KappF Sigma ' fraternity, chairman, and' W. ' Henderson, ' publicity manager/ compose the committee In charge of the Inter-fraternity formal. All fraternity men are. welcome at this 
Wffalr.
COURSE IN LIGHTING 
TO OPEN NEXT MONTH
Curriculum Enlarged Through 
Efforts of Electrical League .
Ineo-operatlon with the Carnegie Institute of' Technology, officers’ of the Electrical League of Pittsburgh and the Pittsburgh-Chapter of the 
Illuminating Engineers' Society are planning to hold their second course In Lighting next month, ac­cording to an announcement. '
The course. It Is Announced, will. Include six evenings of lectures and demonstrations scheduled from Januar^ 11- u> January 27. A tea-, ture In connectioD with, the work of tbe course is that any oiie Inter­ested in illumination problems Is eligible to take the course either In full or In'part. The work Is designed to -bo of practical.benefit to electrical equipment dealers, electricians, central station- em­ployes, reflector manufacturers 
and all others concerned with Im­proved Hlumluatlon.
Tlie staff of lecturers' fur the course is announced as follows: January 11, “Units and Lighting Concepts,”, by C. W. Prlne. assist­ant professor of phyBlcs, Carnegie Institute of Technology; January-19, "Lighting' Sources, Reflecting and Diffusing Media,’’ by Professof H.. S. Hower,. head of tbo Depart­ment of Physics^ Carnegie Insti­tute of Technology; January IS,. ’’Industrial Lighting.’’ by -W. -E. Conley, Illuminating engineer, Na-' llonal Lamp Works, General Eleo. trie Company; January 20, “Com­mercial, Office and Public light­ing," by A. B. O’Day, engineer In. charge of lighting practice, Edison Continued on Page Three)
Professor Steidle Lectures On
The Aspects of Resuscitation
.Many deaths caused by asphyxia­tion could be avoided If more cities and organizations used proper methods of resuscitation,. Edward 
Steidle, professor ofmlnihg at Car-
tlcal. Aspects of Resuscitation.” .
'Many cities and towns have no resuscitation devices whatever, he 
declares,: and a large number are using-so-called lungmotors and pul- inotors which rwere- condemned ‘as life saving appaiatiis by -tjie United 
States Bureau of Mines-and the United Stages Public Health Serv­
ice 12 yean , ago, and later’by the "association of Fire and'PbllCe Sur­
geons. . • •';,;-,vgoUi; :of. these types.of. Jnstrti-. ments are positive pressure devices .foVtdmlnlfttering-'artlflclalrcaplra-
tlon, he points out. Iu the course 
of .exhaustive Investigation, lie re­ports, It was found that mechanical devices of this character do not conform” to natural breathing; on the. other hand, they- distlirV the natural.rylhm. ot ‘breathing, which. Is controlled .by carbon .dioxide in the different portions of the liing' cells. .< Furthermore,- it-was found,1 that the 'excessive pressure and stictlon developed : by: mechanical devices* rupture the delicate -lung 
tissue, and actually do more harm. tUan good.'
' in studying practical and :up-to- date methods of artificial’ respira­
tion,'' Professor Steidle. finds that the -'best methods-now.-in' use in*' cludcappUcaUonofthe;'‘,Schaeffer” ¡method of: manual Ruuipulation of '(Contlnied on Page Three.)-.
2ND: SEMESTER 
TRYOUTS SUN. 
FOR GLEE CLUB
Trials For Glee ‘Club Can­
didates Will be Given Sun. 
Afternoon, Room 158, Arts
H.B. GAUL IN CHARGE
Club To fifoto Several Interest* 
ing Trips Within Next 
Few Months.
The Glee Club is holding n spe­cial sesBlon'next Sunday afternoon, 
to try out . additional candidates that failed to answer the first call' dt: the; beginning - of .the' .semester Harvey B. Gaul, the genial director of the singers, will bear each can' didate personally between the honrs of 2:30 and 4:90 Sunday In Room 150 on the mezzanine Moor ot ibe College of Fine Arts. This oN a. big opportunity, especially for the Plebos; .read the, rest of the article and be convinced.
The choice event on the Glee Club calendar is tlie annual Home Concert given In the Carnegie Music Hall , followed by a dance, that 1s always one of the best of the school year. The date this year. March 26. 1N particularly good, coming at a time when there
The following tclogram tian re­ceived at the.Wooillawn Club, on Sunday, January 2, 1927, - at 2:46 p. m. Crom the Executive Council of.the Pbi.Kappa Pei Fraternity, tn. session at Atlbbtlc'City,'New. Jer-’
The Executive Council bus this day granted a charter to . Wood* lawn Club. The Council welcomes .you. to the Phi Kappa Psi Frater­nity, and desires to convey Indi­vidual and unanimous felicitations. Trusting that Pennsylvania Mu may occupy a high place lu tbe fraternity.
Signed HOWARQ C. WILLIAMS,President. THOMAS' A. COOKSON.Secretary.The above .telegram ended the elgnt years of petitioning by tbe "Woodlawn Club for a charter from the Pbi Kappa Pel Fraternity/ a 
long and arduous task necessl* tated by-the conservative spirit of the national fraternity that- bas only- granied two chapters in the last 12; years.
thy.ie a lull In the Home Concert will as'this year Is the first that th< Glee Club will be recognized, as a real musical organization, meriting publicity and criticism by the mu­sical editors of tbo dally papers, and bringing praise for tbe school and the members of tbo organiza­tion. .
The.Glee Club Irone ot the two outstanding hon-athletie activities, awarding silver keys for two years membership, and gold keys for four years, the awardB being the 
regular activities key- authorized by the «Student Council, the high­est recognition it Is possible to achieve. Now that a great ma- iorlty^of-the Plebes are pledges to fraternities, they will realize the great importance of -activities, for the development of their own per­sonalities, and for tbe glory they 'bring to the fraternity. -•^rnterebUng--alBO--t0'-poBalhleMcan.^ diddles are tbe trips made every year in all dlrectlona to spread the name of Carnegie. Often these (Continued on Page Three.)
NIGHT SCHOOL TO HOLD 
POST-HOLIDAY DANCE
The second In a series of four dances will (be. .held at tbe Carnegie Union January 8 by the student council of the Night Schools.Tbe first of these four tlRaces was the Thanksgivings necees Dance which, as the name indi­cates. was held during tbe Thanks- giTing-'yacathThliicond dance is called the Pout-Holiday dance and will be bold at the Carnegie Union from 9 to 12. Tbe Collegiate Six orches­tra will furnish the music for tbe event The committee in .charge has set the admission at 91.00 per couple. The refreshments frill conBlat of punch. This is the first year that thla poat-hollday dance bas been given In previous years only -three .dances - had been-, spon­sored by the Night Student Council but this year they decided
dancetheirIs the rsm for1926-27.The next dance will be the Wash­ington birthday dance on the. 22nd of February, ’phe fourth, and last dance- sponsored by the nlgbt stu­dent council will be the Intcr-ntght school dance which will be held May 0.'
Capt. Harold C¡ Lyons Dies in Washington, D, C.
Captain Harold C. Lyons, one of the highest esteemed men at Car­negie, died December 30, 1926, in the Walter . Reed hospital, Wash­ington, D.; C., after, an" Illness of
Captain Lyons was one of those few Individuals possessing a per­sonality, character and Ideals that compel the deep admiration of all who come In contact with him. Because of his unceasing efforts, the standard ot the JL O. T. C. at Carnegie has been raised Immeas­urably. -- He was born In New York City January. 1883, and attended Prince­ton University, where he graduat­ed from the engineering school with the degree of C. -E.-ln 1907.-;On August 15, 1917, Captain. Lyons entered the' army, and saw service overesas both during and utter the war. He was commissi^, ed a .captain In the regular army. He wa9 a' member of the Carnegte ’ chapter of Acacia- fraternity, Clt-" mas Club, Engineering. Society- .of Western Pennsylvania and Syria 
Mosque.. .Captain ¦ Lyons .entered' Carnegie in 1923 and-bas-served as an. In­structor In Military Science Qad Tactics.' His Pittsburgh , address was 23O0> Plttock'street . Captain Lyons left the first, part of September for Washington to enter - the Walter Reed hospital there. -He.leaves bls wlfe/who at­tended him throughout' ble ll|neBB.
Woodlawn Club Qrauted Charter 
To the Phi Kappa Psi Fraternity
The Woodlawn Club was founded in; 1906 shortly after the doors of Carnegie were opened to students for the first time, and sgr known as',.the.Woodlawn Cottage Club. 
Tn4. named waa taken from the nstte of the street ott the campus on' which the house .of the Club was situated for the first 10 years oC*lts existence. On March the fourteenth, in* nineteen hundred a£d ten. after four successful •ycare, a meeting ot note was held 
^ which time tho name was for> mnjly changed to “Woodlawn Club.” . ,
The firpt pin of tho Woodlawn Club was In tbo form ot a crescent .wilh the lottor W over and con­
nected with .the letter C and. each letter connected with a'point bn either eud of the croscent. In the year nineteen hundred- and thir­teen tlie phi. as now worn, a shield •Inifront ot;a 'swojd, • was, adopted. Upon the 9bleld are these symbola:- n\Rtar. crescent, and key.- AcrosB tbe, center is written "Woodlawn.” . In. the year nineteen hundred and (Continued! on Page Three.)
Science Stag Prom­
ises to be Best Yet
Everything is in Readiness 
For Big Science, ^chool 
Event Extraordinary
EXPECT MANY GRADS
A week from this Friday marks the date of tbe much talked, of Science stag. This event extraor­
dinary which is exclusively for those of the sterner sex. prom­ises to be as good, and, If such a thing- -is- possible, even better, than any In forme^ years.
. Thu pvlco will be tlie same, as In former years, 60 cents, this In­cludes an evening chuck full'of en­tertainment from 7:30 to 1:00. Fac­ulty stunts, class stunts, alumni' stunts, all of which are better than- ever and guaranteed not .to 'pass the Pennsylvania Board of Cen­sors, yes, and that reminds usj there will be a movie Included in' the program, not to mention the far-famed' popularity contests and last but ;not leaBt- a plentltude of Ba^^.wlll.be.v-eexyedvet-the-com- mons—eàté which " have been, 
brought torth only after the beet' efforts of thé Beanery ‘chefs,
Tho tickets for tbls event will be. on sale starting either the.latter 'part, of this week-or the flrstiof. next week—and It is tbe advice of the committee that they be pur­chased early as In all probability the demand w!U exceed tbe sup-1
my..Invitations will bo sent to all the nenTby Alumni Vho total nearly a thousand, and In all probability many o( them will he on hand— so come on ye olde grads and make the.event a true all Carnegie Science Stag! -: In'this year 'of years in the. his­tory of Carnegie's fame In every Una
This event for men only will be as on' former years, held In the Union, and. lest we forget, the price wlll.be fifty cents, the time 7:30 to 12:00 a week from tbls Friday night and a program, faat moving; and chuck full from begin­ning to end of quality unsurpassa­ble as well as a f&vor and eats ex­traordinary will fill the evening with what may be lerrnd “one big 
night”
PLEBE ALL-CARNEGIE 
DANCE AT UNION JAN. 7
Joe Herbst in Charge of Plebe 
Committee For Dance
The Plebes will hold their first social event next Friday, January -7. This event, will be the Fresh­man All Carnegie dance which will be held at the Carnegie Union'. Tho admission will be 91.50. per couple and the tickets will' be on sale nt :he dance.Margaret Weiner, a Margaret Mon-iBQn Plebe. has,charge of the. refreshments. And decoration. Sha wilt 4»'ably assisted by . several plebes who stay at tbe dormB. Joe Herbst, who will be the general
affairs. 'Bower Maze, .President of the En­gineering aud IndusirjW Freshman has charge of Che' music'. / He promises a flrïé. orchestra to pro,- ylde'.thc syncopation.Margaret Weïnèr, who. Is chair­man of the committee In cnargc of
has : made the following - prepara­tions for the dance. The .'decora- lions will Include the artfui blend­ing of the .various' class colors. She has. also arranged some tuaty refreshments to.be eerced..';-'! The following-' people have, been asked to chapérone the daiice: Mr. and Mrs.;. Kirkpatrick, Dean and Mrs. Tarhelï, D^an Green and Dean and Mrs. Ihrig.n .
The patrons of the danee form an illustrious list. They are: Presi­dent Baker, Director.'.and.'Mrs. Mott. Miss Breed, director ot Mar­garet Morrlson.and"Mr. Keeble, di­rector ot thé collège of Fine Arts.
184 Men Pledged in 
Fraternity Rushing
Results Are Little Different 
From Those of Last 
Year's Season
RULE CHANGE SOON
.minds of many as one ot tbe hectic and disorganized melees of all times. There .has been, and .will be a g^eat. de&l of discussion, ;b\it the fact' i remains that more Freshmen were; . pledged at this irushlng' season than there wero ¡lost year.. .The- addition ot 14 :Q¿mes to: the list published Just *rlor to Christmas bacation brings :the total. to 1B4. Last year the 
number of new pledges ZSS 161.
. /The very slight difference in the numbers' of men pledged - leaves no basis tor discussion, but the real tost ot tbe late rushing period wjll.be ln February, when the se­mester grades are recorded. A sur- yjy ; pr (he -grades of: both .trater* wiy:'tnen''aha the "new"piedgeai 'as compared with tbe midsemester 
-grades and those ot laat year, may lead to some interesting facLs.
The average number of men 
pledged 1Nb .9.0 :per,',fraternity, as against last year’s 6.6.' The num­bers of men varies from 2 to 19 ', whereas last-' year tbeirlatloi> 19.
- The complete llat'of follows:
PHI SIGMA KAPPA—J. Lester, R. Davis, C. Shaw, ^O. Gabier, J. Basler, G. Warner, G. Line.PI KAPPA ALPHA—Zacharson, WllklnB, Swem, HarMnson, C. H. Relchènbacb.' SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON — J. Morley. B. Langfltt W. 'Gary, L. Dunn, EtUridge, C. McMunn, R. Taylor, G. F. Mitchell.' SIGMA PHI EPSILON — G. Shmutz, T. Sblels. C. Kenny, W. Baldwin, H. White, T. Daugherty, E. Perry, P. Creely, A. Spelokler, J. Ward, R.' Deverell, R. Scott. - SIGMA NU—F. I^rey, K. Howe, W.i Lefler, J. Ward, R, Smith. C. Campbell, R. Norris, B. Flnnle, J. Bair, M. Mortimer, T. McCombs, J. Stine, G. Wile, It Bowman.THETA XI — C. Suesaerott, C. Selsam, H. Dowhower. J. Bond, W. Edwards. H. Carlstedt, M. Dinger, H. Butz.WOODLAWN CLUB—P. Droste, IL Goebrlng, B. Maze, S. Warner, R. McLeod, H. Lu&dbérg, R. Kam- bach. c. Wangeman, S. Holver, Stott and Neàl Russel!ALPHA SIGMA PHI—R. Daum, Gibson, Mlrvosh, Canulng, Kocher,H. Schaffer, Woodruff, E. Stone, W. Stone. Rosing, Greve. W. E. Woods.ALPHA TAU OMEGA—R. Wag­ner, Seeley, J. L. Ralston, Bell, McKeever. Becker.BETA SIGMA RHO — L. Cohn,H. Cohen. J. Borman, H. Levinson, St Kabakov, J. Carpe, M. Blleteln, 'W.! RoBe, D. Fisher.BE7TA THETA PI—L. Garbor, D. Snodgrass, C. Bowers, J; Snyder, C. -Glahart,, N. Gabriel, G. LeBou- litller, J. Herbst, , C. Young, T. Browu, w: Bowser, D. Shafer, G. Hutchinson, G. McKiniey, W. Brown, Charles Nelson.DELTA MU—C. Miller, C. Cable, G. Shlndel, It Edgett, H. Lind-' qulst,-*E. Ullum, . J. Wilhelm, R- " eps, F '
'*> w-Continued on Page Three)
MEETING OP ONTARIO- , A. S. H. V. E. ADDRESSEDBY CARNEGIE PROF.
Professor Samuel E. Dibble, head of 'the Department, o! Plumbing, Hiéatlng and Ventilating at the Cnrnegio Institute of Technology, was'th.e'speaker at the meeting or the Ontario ^Chapter; Canadian Di­vision. of the. American, Soclety- of Heating and VeMnatlng Engineers, last- , night- in Toronto, Ontario.'' Professor Dibble', who' Is a mem­ber of the research 'commltteeof the Amerlcan-Soclety of Heating and -VentJ'iating. Engineers, spoke 
on -the progress of the work-1 being done ln the Research-Laboratories of the Soclety, located In the Pitta-’
INAUGURATE 
THISTLE CAM­
PAIGN ON WED,
Wednesday Campaigns Of­
fer Final Chance For Sub­
scribing to “1927 Thistle"
TO CLOSE SALE SOON
Year Book Will Immortalize 
Bigg&st Year In Car­
negie History.
The fifth ot aperies ot,Wednes­
day "Thistle Days’’ will take place tbls week. The time left for order­ing a -1S»27 Thistle” 1s rapidly nearing its limit, and it is doubtful It tho yearbook will bo obtainable, lor more than three or four weeks from this date'. - It Is advlco' to those who want one—but are “merely putting it off’^'.tbat they 
subscribe this Wednesday.Salesmen wlU be In every corri­dor ot evory building between the hours ot 11:30 and 1:30 and books can be ordered at that time. Tbo advance subscription price Is $2.50 which will Insure the subscriber 
of obtklnlng a yearbook.The SenlorB aro especially, urged 
to take advuntuge ot thè Wednes­day sale. Every Senior In Carne­gie will want' a .yearbook to re­member the .last days of Carnegie —It Is a manuscript which in latter years becomes priceless—a record 
of all the events ot those happiest days ot one’s life. .One of tb© big features ot the yearbook',this yeur will be the ath­
letic section—this will be a- com­plete Innovation from anything in former years—as la only fitting the tecords of the great victories over Notre Dame and Pitt will -be given a prominent place in tho book. No one who. is a true booster ot Carnei gle can afford to be without a •'1827 Thlstlo." - What better way could one preserve tbe.memory ofyear which has made bli
wide.The work on the book is rapidly progressing and it should £& to press within a few . short woeks, Some of.the photography remains to be completed nnd;a..l1ttie mami> script .la- yeVto-' be-1 wrttteB^'hbw*: ever the number to be prlhtod 
muat be known within three or four weeks and as this Is based- solely on' the number subscribed for—those who wish to subscribe mustr order very. 'sho'rtJy.-' 'Why not come prepared to subscribe this -Wednesday, apd assure yourse\t of getting a 1927. Thistle. The chron­icle of an extraordinary college in an extraordinary year of Its his-
York Mfg. Co. Donates 
Machine to Mech. Dept.
Tho York ‘ Manufacturing Com­pany ot York, Pa., has. just donated the Department of Mechanical Engineering a full size, soctlonnl- lzed model of a two-cylinder am- 
onia compressor. • 'About four years ago the York Company turntshed a very com­plete five-ton refrigerating plant
dergraduate sudy.
The model just furnished will bo Kfjnled alongside off the com- :esBor used in the test plant 'so nt as tho students aro carrying n experiments in refrigeration ley will be abe to study the ac­tion of the compressor, since the model Is an exact duplicate of tbe actual machine.The original lest plant was plan­ned largely by Professor Estep and It was through his efforts that the model was secured.The ' Department ot Mechanical Engineering Is to be congratulated upon securing this valuable addi­tion to their equipment and the York Manufacturing Company 1s U> be thanked for their generous
TARTAN STAFF TOHOLD IMPORTANTMEETING WED, NIGHT
cm Important meeting of the en­
tire Tartan staff, Including all re­porters, and all persons who ere in anyway connected with Tartan work wlli-be held ot the Woodlawn club,\WednéBday ' night at 8:00 
P-.'“-' It Is very Important' that oU per­sons connected with the Tartan bo présent .at this mooting as much ot the work for tbe. remainder-of the year will be.outlined and dis*, cussed.A review of tho work which hns been accomplished so far this yoar will be brought up and nny difficulties which have come up will be Ironed out. <It Is'essential In fact Imperatlvo 
that all Tartan men and women be present at this, meeting Wednes­day nlght.'January G.
PLUMBERSTOHOLD 
ANNUAL INSTITUTE
Carnegie to be Host For 3rd 
Annual Meeting of Ven­
tilating Engineers
DATE IS JAN. 18,-19; 2Q
A group ot about 900 mastor plumbers and ventilating engineers from' . Pennsylvania and-nearby slates is- expected .to attond the third annual Three-Day Institute for Plumbing, Heating and Venti­lating Industries at Carnegie Instl- of Technology, January 16, 19, and 20, Dr. C. B. Connelley, dlrec- or of Industrial relations, an- lounced yesterday.
Tills year’s Institute, like IhoBe of the two preceding yoars, baB been planned to give master plumb- tecbn|cal,'infpraaUon thnt Is difficult ’for- ttiipRL to obtain oUier- ' The lociiiroB and demonstra­tions listed in the-program have boon outlined to acqunlnt those ivtlended with seml-sclentlfie faats useful In their trade and to stlmulAto appreciation and. interest In the technical features of sanita­tion problems, ; >
Among tho subjects of tbe tec- ireB to be given will be Business and SalesmanBhip, Welding in the Plumbing and ' Heating Industry, 
Chemistry of Plumbing and Heat* Ing, Building Construction, Plumb- li)g^nd'HeatlnglagUUlatlon,'WatQr Supply'and' ' ' Sewage " Disposal. 
Plumbing' end Healing as They AiTeci-.Henlth and thè Plumbing Code. , . . '
Newcomers on the special fac­ulty of lecturers for'the Institute 
S year will Include Dr. Walter F. (Continued on Paxe Three.)
PRÉPARATIONS, FOR 
WOMEN’S JR. tROM
Lucille Galmlsh Heads Com* 
mittee Directing Affair
Sophs Stage Successful Banquet At Sewickley
The class of '29 .bravely held up Its end' of a heavy tradition on 
Wednesday night. December 14. Then It was that the soph’s feasted merrily and waxed warm over the convolutions of a maiden enter- Ulner. The banquet was held at Elmhurst Inn, near Sewickley. A delightful meal was served, at which there was a noticeable ab­sence of bananas and ham saud- vlches/Thu Plebes. as -behooved their ¡lass spirit, generally, were fast to 
discover th^t something was hap­pening. The local telephone com- ¦as enriched-’by thousands, of nickels as the class of 30 tried collectively, and individually to dis­cover. what It was 'all about' - They did; and orrlved at the scene of the the lut dish was being dried. .¦¦ ' >•" .However, as there: was (hen no apparent reason- for disagreement, both; classes rode back on the same train; {There were: so; few.: fresh. menl present, later thougli, ttiat'-jt- thought they - might have 'stayed:
The Women’s Junior Prom will be held February 26. In the English room of the Fort Pitt Hotel, it was inced Friday. LUUe has been, divulged as to the nature of tbe af­fair, but, plans aro under way to make this function one of the out-, standing social events of. the year.
The orchestra has not yet been, selected, but some of the best muslc-nmkers available áre being considered, Including such, baneo as "The Prince of Wales,” “Dave Harmon’s," and many other out- standing orchestras.*
-An elaborate mld-nlght dinner will be served In the dining roqm. The committee/ for tbe decorations has already 'started worlc, and beautiful appointments for both 
the English room and the dining, room nre under way.
.The Waya and Means commtttee. under the direction- of Christine Groy.es, Margaret Mbrrlson, le con­templating on á bridge, or bake sale to help defray expenses.
The chairmen of tho ' various committees fcre as follows: - Lucillo Galmlsh, General Chair­man; Betty-Burkhoude, Treasurer; Harriet Welgal, - Secretary; Mid Young,-Merion-Belllnger, Publicity; 
Betty ^gileh,-.-.Location;.; Louise Roth, Dinner; Mary McGuire, Dec­oration; Catherine Wyman, Favoñ.'
The very evident success of the' first "Tea Fight,” held in behalf of thé 1927 Arts’Ball, hos lnduced.the comlttee to stage anothër rebellion,' which, will be vheld . Thursday, January. 13. At' thé first dance the .chief objcct was. to "'ac­quaint. the freshman 'boys and girls,; and- to Induce u;. general -lively* spirit 1n conjunction with the Arts’ Ball. •
The Idoa is now rlfe'on-the cam­pus that the .’27 ball IS going to far; surpass ' any of past years.. We have done everything well- this yeir, - f ootbnll,âançcs, ; rushing, e tç. ; Ther,es Is ' no .apparent ireMbii ^why; Vhe Arts,'B^l ihouldinot’crôwn à1 glorious yoar.-..,- Chairmin^Aniold Perreton urges the. plebes 'to get their work cards filled out, so that preparaLions may 
be ; completed Quickly , as jiossK.
are In atoVe.1 Ÿfêb«W|,'wprk.:hard make this rear’s baU the best ïn history. -
VARSITY QUINT 
TO PLAY FIRST 
GAME JAN. 8
WestVirginia University to 
be Played at Morgantown 
in Opener of 1927 Season
IRWIN IS OPTIMISTIC
Captaüi Hard, Amans, Harps- 
ter, tynoh- and WMto ' , 
Probable Starten.
Nuxt Saturday evening. Coach 
John Invln’s basketeers will Inaug- 
urato their 1927 campaign, against 
West Virginia University at Mor> 
gofltown.': The. Mountaineers pro­
vided the opening entertainment 
for the Tartans Inst year, and'tho 
speedy Sklbos were returnod vio 
torlouB otter a . gruelling battle. 
This yenr thoy hope to repeat Ro- 
ports emanating from the Ranger’s 
hauuts . however 'toll of a veteran 
aggregation ''under the. guidlng: 
haindB of Coaoh Btadsvold, a' team; 
which ibids fair to cut Quite a swbtb 
among the leading contendere in 
tlie Tri-state district- ' ' -
* Despite the root that two former 
varsity regulars,- ponohqe. and Mo*, 
fort, are ineliglblo duo to BCholas-" 
tlo work, this yoar’s enund at Car­
negie sbapos up. as one .of the.beBt . 
In tho history of tho school; - With : 
former eaptaln "Toots" Amans, ' 
all t^l-state forward; last >year,; 
flanked along side of CapuUn Ray 
Hurd at tho forwards, (he Scots 
boast ono of the beet scoring ma* 
chines they'have'had for a long 
time. . White and Crum, brilliant 
forwards of last year’s groat-fresh-, 
man outilt, are In'the best of shape 
•oaily to Jump Into the breach \ 
In caeo 'anything happens to the 
two veterans.At tho Jump-off position, Harp- ster and Kalock ore: waging: a merry battle’ to determine who , shall get the first calL Harpster played a great game at the pivot . position ;onl Inst yoar’s Pletm. team. whtrt^KallooW'^^^v'tii^'aU-lntor-' frnlercl ly basketball SQloctlone last winter and was'a' member of the PI Kappii Alpha.:qulnlet, pennant 
wlnnnra la3t yeaf.) A't the.'guards, W:aHy: Lynch,'; a rogular two years ago, Is'back in school after n. year’s layoff, ‘'Snd . seems certain .to have the first call: for one of tho defensive positions. ; Wolly combines first: rate guarding* ability with accurate leng-dlstancsi : shooting,, an ideal. comWnatlpo^ : Stauffer and Hitchcock' will bcthr; probably see much service at. the' other open guard- position. ' Wost and Eflcher are aIbo-: shaping 'tip weir in’practice, aiidgtve.'promJse-. fif providing roai .-•competition - to-r tlie rpgiilars In the near' future.
-AI Sebastian; stellar varsitr guard, throughout iMt season, ;exr- tO' register at' mid-year,' amE: his addition will- certainly give are added, pupch -io lhe - squad at*'that. lime.:' :. '4 'V
Christmas'recess. Previous to the '- holiday's, stiff workouts with Bom»' of Pittsburgh’s' reputed independ­ent jteams wore 'Indulged. In, - and thp varsity displayed a;redrbrind . ot baskebball whjch-presages .areal', 
air.of optimism' for the 'cumnt Beji--
Night Courses Reopen; 
Examinations Announced
The nlglit .t-qurseB ln.'tlie: Carne­gie Institute of TQchnologyi will re- i. after Christmas !.ya«atlon, on Monday.' evening,y^aliuary'3,‘ 192T. New. atwdeh'ts cah be accepted -'in. the following shop. and', studio 
^College of . Industries— Foundry, Machine, Work,/Mechani­cal Draftingi. Structural and Archi­tectural Drafting, Forging’and Heat T^-oatmont i-of' ¡steel, 'Sheet Metal,- Printing, - Bricklaying-and 
Masonry.. Heating and ..Ventilating,. .W[eldlng and .Woodwork. In' the- Arts Coliege tt pr^ehand', Draw lug, Palhilngi ¦ • Architectural ' Design and Scuipture: are- offered..
identa can be'admitted for instruction'on-muelcallnBtrumenta AppU^.ntsfor'adnilasIonBhoiUd report at the registrar’s office Ini the 'Central building .between .7:0.0 and 8:30 any'we^-day'eyening (except-Saturday.):- Further, infor­mation may be obtained by- ad­dressing the Registrar, Carnegie institute of Technology. ;:. - :-
Exaralnatlons . for -removal . of conditions . will be betd- January 20.
ed in- ' aiibjects i&st June r aro : i iilred tò; take .the examinations; c écelve à grade of R ln thé-doiib fulsubject.-'.EsámlnatUkys.-ns’jolli x v-.'januàry'.>2<>^Àlgebrev^'S:.ÔÔ i úVmD 12 m.;En*líeh. 1:00'p. m. to 3:00 :ri¿‘;' Pßyslca,;.3:ÔO p/.m- to^iOP; tn. ;. Genéral: Hl8tòiy, 3:CHD:i>; m; -.:6:00l R.-> . V. v:January 2U— Plane, Geometry, •
S01id<.Géôüiéiiîÿ,:'3:00 p.' m.- to,5:00

---------------------------------------------------

wkaTMi«* at 
BiutaMU W«rld
When your school life I* over buslmworld, you will' appreciate the bank conneetlone that • you form today.* The flxpert>'
which a bank affords -will strengthen , your confidence' and »make Hkety your chance* of suceegc. . ( . Regardless ¦of'i the size of -your account« you will find 'here a seVii1j«V spirt of serv- Im In the eanduct of your f)> • We Invite
Joyce Semce
Christmas and Holiday« 
it reasonable HMSA we supply the borne table and Holiday Ivltles with seasonabledelicious Goodies and Novel- ties.
Fruit cake, Plum Pudding, 
Candles. Pies, - Bread, Bis­
cuits/ Pastries, lee Creams and Ices —Ideally made of 
quality materials.
' Ttfotor delivery twice dally.
MANOR THEATER
Stanley - Rowland-Clark’s Manor Theater-offers .foor/ wonderful plc- 
ires to Its patrons tbls coming eek, starting Wednesday and Thursday.with Rex lognrn's latest masterpiece. "The Magician" star­ring Alice Terry with a strong aup- 
porting cost ot foreigners, the plot being Maid is Paris and Monte irto and the picture filmed on the tiial locations. Friday "Tbe ¦pular Sin" with beautiful Fier­ce Vidor starring' end' Cll' Brook supporting her. Be Np id see what this popular sla I iturday,. Harry Langdon, King of Komedy in’ ‘The Strong Mi “ The picture starts 1N Belgiumip in a email town- in Indiana with Harry as tbe stage comedl; Monday and Tuesday "Tbe White Black Sheep” with Richard Barth- s and Patsy Ruth Miller, 
story deals with the black sheep of a floe English family wbo Sods himself East or tbe Suez as uber of tbe English Foreign Legion. L -ASO comedies and new?: with each change .of fea-
gram thi Wednesday and Thursday with Tbe Popular <Sln" with beautiful Vidor and Clivé Brook supporting her. Be sure And find
Friday and Saturday Harry Lang­don the fanny man of tbe BCreen his latest “Tbe Strong Man.” He couldn’t lift a dumbell. bul 
should see blm with, the girls. Monday and Tuesday Thomas 
Melghan in bis greatest role, that of a farmer of the great northwest in ‘The Canadian." AIbo selected unedles and news events with ich change of feature.
Elliott’s 
Two Stores 
Headquarters 
For Practical 
Gift Things
Both our Stores are treason chests of nseful Gift artlcles- . many .. of them entertaining Ii their usefulness.
Microscopes {. , Everything.Optical
Theatre TipsALUMNI PAGE
STRANO THEATER
nloy-RowIand-Clart’s Stninr offers? pleas!; pro-
tbe’opulai
SCHENLEY
ore outstandingly vgood enter- ment Is promised for the Schen- Theater. Forbes street. Oakland district. 'this week. ; Monday and ay, January 3 and 4, brings delightful comedy drama. :t Rosie O'Grady," the story of a Bowery belle who becomes a Fifth avenue princess. On Wednes- Thursday. January 5 and C, tho attraction will be tbe extraor- Inary nine-reel spectacular Ibrlll roductlon, "The Flaming Fron-
t and 1led as cplcluiTbeFriday and Saturday, JanuE and B. will be the popular po ai comedy, "Tin Hats." with ilobrated cast, including Com 
agel, Claire Windsor. Geoi Cooper,' Bert Roach and . TiOn thei stage throughout the week le Jack Pltzer’s Orches- si clever musical organzlation n performers. "Tbe Return of r Grim/' a marvelous adapta- of David Belasco's stage tri­umph, will be presented Monday ind Tuesday, January 10 and 11.' When the Armistice was signed,
long the specially honored guests were 'two members of this year’s team, Newt Cowan and Bill Manby of .Lancaster! The boys were royally received and in turn the assemblage' a review of tbe past season.
John G. Todd was toastmaster of .the dinner, and James J. RudlBll] >f York was one of the principal speakers. The committee In e included Henry Shaub. Mr. Todd. Mies Virginia Wallis and Rllchel Lawrle. A very good or* ihestra provided the music for dancing. ;The guests'attending were: Mr. id Mrs. Edwin Green. Mr. and Mrs. Charles J. Bushong, Mr. and F. M. Hlghberger. Mr. and 
Ritchie Lawrle. Mr. and Mrs. y Stone, Mr. and Mrs. J. W. MJnick, Mr. and Mrs. Clayton J. Lapley, Mr. and. Mrs. Samuel Jam- A SMOI MleB Virginia Wallis. Miss Claire Lutz. Miss Clarabel Nlaalay, John G. Todd. Ralph S. Posslnger. Leo Marah. Gerald SieberU M. Dale Smith. B. Merlon Shields. ¿11 of Harrisburg.Mrs. Mary -McKerlgan, Philadel­phia; Mr. and Mrg. W. H. Oakley, Reading; Mr. and Mrs. Henry Y. Shaub. Miss Louise Roy, Miss Mil­dred Hlmelbiight, Mlse Lucille Musselman, Newt I. Cowqn. Wil­liam H. Manby. John C. Stouffer of ister; Miss E. C. Garber, Mt. Arthur G. Speckler. Eliza­bethtown; Mr.and Mrs. J. J. Rudi-, III, York; Miss Mlldren Wise. New Cumberland; RUBsell M. Welgle,
and Philadelphia, but reports of heso have not yet come In.- Many loclat affairs are being held at his season 'by the various clans.
i* few, i
•afted
lust the least bit disap­pointed to think they never hcul an :unlty to get into the argu- tr is about these Jew that 
Edward Sedgwick spun his yarn, 'Tin Hats.’’ The story concerns three doughboys, one a rich man’s son, played by Conrad Nagle; r, a New York the servtce, played By Gi ter, and thé third, an Ame 
of a St. Louis Dutch bn played by Bert Roach. Those three line trenche: time to hear tbe rofer>< bat "That's all there la auy more.” However 
the plot thickens when they ar< r with the Armj id tliolr 1 subee- make iho wi turday Evening Strawberry Festival, back tucket Claire Windsor Vou Berger, a titled German girl, is t the story, and with 
Conrad Nagel, supplies tlie love iiu
top .sergeant
of the great popularity, 
been touring the princl-
THE COLLEGE SHOP
THE PLACE FOR- 
SNAPPY COLLEGIATE TOGS 
4618/2 FORBES STREET Near Craig
Of course you can go to
EUROPE
14 aplendid.snidcnc conn un­der tne expert ¡management of an old established agcncy. 44 to64 days of unequalled Inter' est ¡a Scotland. England, Hoi- land.Bclgiiun.Francc,1Germany, Switzerland and Italy. June to September—*485 ut».
GATE S
TOURS 
225 Fifth Ave., N.Y.
BiutaMiUW «MB rlt itd CMrlt
.Men’s, $6.00-^Color: Grey. .Women’s, $6.50—Color.-;: Blue, Lilac, Green, and 
red. ¦;Aufhanuner and Evans
6100 PEHW AVENUE
HARRISBURG PAR­
TY GREAT SUCCESS
Cowan and Manby Guests 
At Artaual Christmas 
Dinner Dance
ABOUT 50 ATTEND
Tbe Harrisburg Clan held itfl slitb annoal dinner dapce on Mon­
day, December 27, at Craver’s Tea l­­md in /Harrisburg, and tbe af­
fair. was a biggor BUccess than ever.' This party .is given each year during the holiday season es­pecially' for -the students home
iei-3 are veterans In their and tbeir experience has thoroughly schooled them In the' things*tbe public llbes. They know constitutes a good program arc 'equaily competent In' get- t across. Tbeir production at this Schenley Includes not only t presentations of the latest
well. The t se the orciwho call iIn thqir varied lines.The Schenley'a bills are changed completely each Monday,'Wednes­day and. Friday. Supplementary subjects "will Include news pic­tures, comedies and novelty films. Performances are continuous from each day, and parklii for» le abundant.
FACULTY BULLETIN
1—BUREAU OF INFORMA­TION: At the meeting or the Ex­ecutive Board December 8 the fol
lakimoffice
on the campus which Involve tions with tbe public, especially the granting oi rooms for lecl 
meetings, etc..'shall teleplion president's secretary, who wi tliy the registrar and the chief telephone operator.'The registrar's office shall be regarded as the bo-. of InimatloiThisto be published In the Faculty Bulletin.’’2—SALARY VOUCHERS: Salary vouchers for the month of Decem­ber will be Issued Friday, Decem­ber 17. ' They may be called for at the cashier’s office In the after­noon. The treasurer’s office will deposit ou the same day the
this done.3—WOMEN’S CLUB OF C. I. T. The next meeting of the. club will
Baker will speak on "Some Politi­cal Effects ot Scientific Research In Europe.” The hostesses will be Mrs. Francis ,k. Walters. Jr.,' 1 William T. Crandell, Mrs. H<K. Schmidt, Mrs. Sumner B. Ely, Mrs. Charles B. Stanton and Mrs. Joseph B. Rosenbach.4—CALENDAR:Wednesday. Thursday and Fri­day. December 16. 16 and 17. 8:16 
p. m., three one-act plays by tho Night School students. Change of plays each night.Thursday, December 16, 12:60 p. m., Christmas Chapel.Saturday, December IB,-to Mon­day, January 3,.cWl8tmas'vaca­tion. . . ,,„4—CHANGES IN PERSONNEL DIRECTORY:'Professor Hower, - Hazel' 3313-R.Mies Woifel, Franklin 2347-W. ••Gorham, Margaret-(Mrs.,R. C.), Secy., R. O. T. C., 112 Biddle street, Wllklnsburg' . Franklin /9873-M... 1-
•Stewar.ty Mrs. Edith C., Stenogr., Aaat ; Controller^ Office, 7 Olympic. pla<MlrMayflower. 6028.... 1-230C. !. :0-^AS IN OUB EARLY DAYS; The'foiio^'lng’cirpplng.ffomiaj^fl-
CLAN NEWS
COLDEN GATE
The Golden Gate Clan meetings are again In full swing after the summer vacations: Thé Clan cele­brated its second birthday with -a. party at the borne of Mi-b. Inez Heacock PlUe, M’17. which proved a huge success. Three new mem­bers tamed out .for the first time, G. M. Wh[flier, E’20, with tlie Westlngbouse .High Voltage Ineu- Company, just recently tranft- ferred from Deny. Pa.; Misa Ruth K. Porter, M'26, and Frank I. Law- ¡’20, who Is with the.Pacific Gas & Electric Company.The January meeting of tbe ,CIan will be held on Frldaiy,* the 14th. at
" Athens Athletic. Club in
i before the dinner dance.
NORFOLK
The fallowing telegram was re dved from the members of th< Norfolk Clan, on the occasion. o the banquet tendered! tbe entln football squad by the Chamber, o 3[amerce of Pittsburgh: 
"Enjoying banquet program. Al Norfolk .Clan sendB congratulation: •ii and learn. Billy Sands 1912.”
MILWAUKEE
Monthly luncheons are-held on the first Monday of each month at 
the Hotel Stratford fit 12:15 p- m. There were nine alumni present at the December meeting including Mr. S. Vet Williams and G._W. Curtis, who are recent additions to the Clan. It ie needleas to Bay that the chief topic of tbe conver­sation was the Carnegie Tech, vic­tory over Notre Dame. E. G. Pe­terson. care thev. Cutler-Hammer Manufacturing Company, le presl-
CANTON
a meeting ' of the Canton , held November 20, at the on V. M. C. A., the following ra were elected: President,Virgil Whitmer. 621 Tenth street. V.; secretary, John P. Paca. Twenly-flfth street. N. W.; urer. Oden C. Hofiner, 416 ienth Btreet, N. W.
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA
ributed:r last June has bee
erred 1,626 .degrees, umber in her history, .has changed onalderably from the days whenl s the poet, tells us: 
md who waa in the Catalogue 
When college was begun?.Two nephews of the. President And' the Professor's son; >Lord, how the seniors knocked
The freshman class of.one! '6 — GASOLINE CONTRACTS: The Welfare Committee ol the General. FacuUy .. .requests that those employes v of . the Institute- holding gasoline contracts and de- tlclpate in theI theof gasolim. the,cts thlE
7 —THREE-DAY INSTITUTE:The third annual ' institute for the plumbing, heating and ventilat­
ing Industries will be held January 18. 19 and 20, under the auspice? oe the Department of Industrial Relatione. Tho following members of the faculty will ’form the in­structional -staff: Professors Rltt-man, Dibble. Lelghou, Dunnells, Lang and Dr. Decker.8—PICTURE OF ¡ CHRISTMASPARTY: Members of the facultywho -desire a picture of the chil­dren’s party may leave' orders at tho office ol the cashier. A copy will be on display there.9—PERSONAL: Professor Wurts, who has been 111 at home for two months with a loug and serious at­tack'of shingles, Is now recovering in a most satisfactory manner. He
Indie'Professor Chester Wallace read the play, "Naboth’s Vineyard,” be­fore the McKeesport Women’s Club on Friday, December 3.Professor Estop will speak on "Characteristics of. Fane" at tho conference of'the Mechanical sec­tion of the Engineers’. Society of Western Pennsylvania and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers on Auxiliaries ot the
Professor Hubert Osborne, until •last year a member of the Drama faculty and now with Professor Baker at Yale, staged "The Witch” which recently. opened at the Greenwich. Village theater with Alice Brady as the- lead. 'Mr. Roniagnoll salle Wednesday on the “Berengarla” for Italy.The Musical, Forecast for Decem­ber- contains a write-up of Protes-. sor 'Janson ot the Music depart-
Dr. Nathanson will read a paper on "The Variations with.State of the Optical Constants of Caesium” before .the .American Physical So­ciety at its meeting Ip Philadelphia December 28-30.Miss .Evelyn Cohen and'Mr. Alexander Wycoff,. former mem­bers ot the .Drama faculty, are now on.tho stall ot*tlie .Cincinnati Art Theater, which produced Rostand’s "L’Ajglon" on December ,30.., Professor.. .James attended ..the: meeting of tbe .American^ Institute' of, Chemical; Engineers vyhlch was held In Birmingham, and Atlanta^.
of the' Southern California .Clan, 
Mr. G. R_ Brandln: '
••You-can easily, imagine that 
Carnegie beating Notre. Dame 
caused a lot of excitement and talk 
here in Southern 'California. Notre 
Dame played U. S. C. here in Los Angeles last Saturday, Just a week after we had beaten them. I think 
that all of the U. S: C. and Stan­ford fao&twere rather put out at 
oar beating the Irish, as it. stole some ot their smoke. Even If U. S.' C. had1 won lost Saturday it wouldn't have amounted to so much since Notre Damo was al­ready beaten.
"Surely the game called foi cel­ebration and the Southern Califor­nia Clan pot It on last Friday night, December 3rd. We'bad another reason for putting on this party, which in fact, was the original idea, bat - the Notre Dame game came at just the opportune, time to make It a double celebration.
"Mary RlcaTd. A'20, who Is ope or our alumni, is taking one of the leading parts In "Gentlemen Pre­fer Blondes’’ at tbe’Belasco theater. She takes tbe part of. "Dorothy” body agrees that she is the bit of the show.
“Thirty-four members of the Southern California Clan wont to the theater last Friday night. We bad a large sign displayed in front the theater stating that this was Carnegie night. We bung a large Carnegie Banner in tbe lobby and or lilies of tbe valley tied with Tartu rib­bons. .,
“After the show we west to Mil­ler’s Lafayette ror supper and dance. It ^as college-night .at tbe care and there were rooters from U. S. C., Stanford. Notre Dame. Michigan and many other schools, but of course, we outnumbered and out-cheered all ot them.
"Jack Meredith started It off by playing ’Dear Old Tech’ on the 
piano while the rest of us did our best to sing.
"A little later In the evening' a dancing contest was held and Col­
onel Fred Foster, who. by the way, was tho first captain of a Carnegie football team, and announced as Buch, judged the contest. Mary Rlcard* and Bob Finkelhor stayed In tbe contest to the end and were second best. It would have been the crowning triumph for ust if we had been able to take away, the silver Dancing trophy.
"All of us on tbe coabt are hop­ing that 'some day Carnegie will have a team which will be Invited to tho coast to play the New Year 'toui'namiwill 1)ld to enjo:
er on "Unusual Factors In Plant .ocatlon’’ and served on the educa- Ion committee ot the institute. 
-Nearly a thousand orders for tbe proceedings or the Coal Con­ference have been received by Mr.It is expected they wJll be ready for distribution February.
Malcolm Parcell. a former stu­dent of the . Painting-and Decora- department, has painted the alt of the late Presidoht-Er- DeWttt. Burton of the Unlver- pity ot Chicago, which has been presented to the. university by members of the faculties and his former students.Dr. . Walters and Dr. Frlauf-. of the Bureau of:. Metallurgical Re­search, will attend tbe meeting ot the American Physlcat Society and will read papers. Dr. -Walters on “Absorption Spepti
Mr. Herman S. Pavla, the CAsh- er. who collapscd at the ofllcc wo weeks ago, is improving slow-
Ing the anuual meeting or the American Society of Mechanical Engineers And the Taylor Society. He also attended to business tu New York and Baltimore in- con- nection with the publication of the proceedings ot the International conference .on Bituminous Coal.Mr. J. D. Beatty attended the National Association ot Building Trades' Employers annt Ing which was held De^ce
PITTSBURGH CIAN 
WILL HONOR YODER
Testimonial Luncheon at
Fort Pitt Hotel on
January 15
GOOD TIME ASSURED
The Pittsburgh Clan is continu* 
log its activities in 'the new year 
with a big testimonial dinner to be 
tendered to Lloyd Yçder, captain 
of Carnegie’s great, team this yçar, 
and selected' on the All-American 
team of Knute Rockne, Pop War­
ner pnd Tad Jones. Thé clan felt 
that since this Is the first selection 
Of any Carnegie Tech.player on 
this mythical team, the event 
should ' be duly ' celebrated. The 
luncheon Is to be held January 16. 
1927. at the. Fort Pitt Hotel, at 
X:00 p. m.
In addition to doing honor to 
Yoder, the luncheon will offer an 
excellent opportunity to start off 
right In the new year by renewing 
old friends. and acquaintances. It 
will be the first big event of the 
alumni calendar, and It Is hoped that It will be a success. Tbe com­mittee promises that there will be no long speeches, but just a real good time.Those wlBhing to attend should send their check ($1.25 per plate).
206, Gymnasium Building, Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pitts­burgh, Pa. All alumni are Invited.
CINCINNATI
CLEVELAND
CLEVELAND WOMEN'S CLAN 
iv. 2289 IBe1lflêÎd Avenue! cfcveMni 
e President, Mra..Nelte Bester Sparite
r ,13,Pejin Hotel, Pitts­burgh.' Mr. Beatty asks the co-operntlon ot the faculty to keep the address» graph list of alumni up to date. Members of the faculty, who re­ceive mall Tor visits from alumni, are requested to send tlie latest ad­dress .or these men and women to tho Alumni recorder’s office, Room 166-C. Industries Building.On Friday, December 3, Director Connolley addressed the cltl2ens of .the Westwood borough on the 
Pittsburgh public schools; on Wednesday, December 8, he dis­cussed. Industrial Education before the. members of the Lions’ Club of East Liberty, and on' ^Thursday,' December 9, he was an honor guest at the annual banquet of the Pitts­burgh Builders’ Exchange.'Dr. Baker made , an address be­fore' the American Association ot ^University -Women, which fnet in' tlie Margaret Morrison Carnegie faculty parlors last - Saturday night: The occasion was a recep­tion for foreign students.Dr. Baker will.epeak qt the Sun­day; chapel exercUes of the Penn-, sylvanla State College on January 
9.A HAPPY NEW YEAR.
VIÄ 
BecMtuT and-'Tnaranr.' P. N. Dicker,
Preildont, W.
-DAYTON, OR FI ,W. H«ckert. : 
DBTBOIÏ
P Id* t, fli/ ]
Woodbine Street, HÚrlebunr, Pa. 
Queen Stavot, Lancaster. Pa. Seertta HUNTINGTON, W. VA. &
' JOHNSTOWN, PA.
f­,­,¿gnh.ge ug..h»
i9 Avenu« M, Brooklpn, Ñ. cltr Manager, P. T. Stnltl . Dobertr ani Componi
dent, ' 8lPHILADELPHIAdin£. Lynn E. ExHnc. 182
3,71K<? KcaX^Ettliú (TiSe-PITTSBURGH
v Monmerit» ni» Avenue,
». Hall, 836 
r, «are Standard
WASHINGTON.
YOUNGSTOWN.
ItlDian Street, Yoon«
4405 FORBES ST. (Nèar’Cralp)
Reasonable Ratei
STUDENT SUPPLIES 
C.M. STÀTTFT* ;
FORBES ANO BOQUET STS, 
-À? ~ 'OAKLAND
CRAIG
ÜÉSTÂU1AI8T
412 SOUTH CRAIGi STREET. ;
Try Our 
Regular Dinners, 
40c and 50c
aRAII BGÜÉSTÂS1É
^ BIJTLEE'S
FOR BETTER GROCERIES 
414 SOUTH CRAIG- STREET We Deliver All Orders.J. O. BÀKER, Marfa'ser ’ Mayflower 7644
HAVE-YOU TRIED OUR PUNCH- ' FOR YOUR DANCE?
. This Coupon and 40e will entitle you to a 50c dinner. 
THURSDAY EVENING 4:306:00 P. M.
TRY OUR 36c L\lNCH 
Special—^Pastries with Fra­ternity letters for occasions.
Shofall’s Tea Risoia
'3710 FORBES STREET Phone Schenley 9318
P ATE O NIZE O ÏÏE AD7EKTISEES
FOR YOUR NEXT;
FORMAL AFFAIR
Whittington Dress Suit Co.
First Church of Christ, 
ScientistClyde Street, Near Fifth Avenue Sunday, 11. A. M. and d P. M.. Wednesday, 8 P. M. Sunday School, 11A M.
Goodyear y/elt System 
4523 FORBES STREET 
WE REPAIR RUBBERS
Let’s All Go To The
TECH
Barber Shop 
For Our Hair Cuts 
CBAIG AND 
FORBES
LEARN TO DANCE
Jacques School of 
DancingCRAIG AND FORBES STS.
Beginners Monday and Frli day. Evenings. Advanced, Thursday and Saturday EvjyjIng0.. Private lesBons by'appointment.•______Mayflower 7391
Oakland 
Savings & Trust 
Company
Member Federal 
Reserve^System
"The Oakland Bant*’
Capital -- $300,000.00 
Surplus - - - $300,000.00 
Deposits Over $5,000,000.00
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
MORE CORONAS ARE 
USED IN COLLEGE 
THAN ANY OTHER MAKE 
OF;PORTABLE 
Before the daya of Corona most college worfc wae writ- ten-by hand. Now every­thing le typewritten. You’ll find Coronas at work In every college In the world. 'Mor* are In use today than all other makes of portables combined. Come In and eee tho lateet model. It la the last word In . portable type­writers. .Standard four-row keybo
big.ard rlbbcin—m
Prlec
some bargalns ln used Coro­nas as low as $25.00. 
STANDARD TYPEWRITER' feoMPANY • ¦
129 FIFTH AVENUE Atlantic 0342
STANLEY-ROWLAND-CLARK'9MAMOi
Rex Ingram’s 
“THE MAGICIAN” 
Alice Terry
. Friday, January 7'
“The Popular Sin” 
Florence Vidor 
Clive Brook
Saturday, January 8 '
HARRYLANGDON 
“The Strong Man”
Richard Barthelmess 
“The While BlaokSheop”
STMAMB
Florence VMar 
Clive Brook
Harry Langdon
"THE STRONGJAN"
Thomas Mei^han 
"The Canadian’’
GET YOUR STUDENT TICKET FREE AT TARTAN OFFICE
Schenley Theater
Irst Floor and Balcoriy^-2Sc 
Mezzanine—3 60 
HARRY DAVIS, General Manager>od Theater Ip Plttsblirgh.
: WEDNESDAY ANO THURSDAY, JANUARY S AND «
- “The Flaming Frontier”
Year’s-Tremendous nine-reel spectacle with 
DUSTIN FARNUM.iANNE CORNWALL, HOOT GIBSON. WARD CRANE, EDDIE GRIBBON, GEORGE FAWCETT
FRIDAY AND SATURDAY, JANUARY.7 AND 8 -
‘TIN HATS”
ADDEO ATTRACTION ALL WEEK
Jack Pitzer’s Orchestra
Ten Specialists of Melody and Rhythm with Program of Class ¦ • _____ .and Variety. ,
MONDAY AND TUESDAY. JANUARY 10 AND 11
‘‘The Return Gf Peter Grimm”
Marvelous Adaptation of David Belasco's Stage, Triumph with;: 
JANET GAYNOR,. ALEC B. FRANCIS» JOHN ROCHE, RICHARD WALLING, FLORENCE"GILBERT, LIONEL ___ 8ELM0RE, JOHN ST, POLIS •
Wrnrnmm
PA,TE ONIZE OU B AD VE fi TISEKS

---------------------------------------------------

On the Plaid Screen,
By WILLIAM R. BERNARDI
W«tt Virginia at MorgarI Saturday, playing
considerable time In
Tablet to.be Erected in the 
Gymnasium; Luncheon •. 
at Fort Pitt Jan. 15
THfe INTERFRATERNITY basket ball committee has finally di­vided the.league lnlo sections, and intends lo draw up a schedule at its next .meeting; . -There'are iour sections this year, in order to sim­plify Ute playing ot the finals.
BULL YODER will again Ihonored when the Pittsburgh Clai Fòrt Pitt, on Saturday, Januar;
MIKE GOODWIN and Yoder played splendid games for the' East' era team In the-Eaat-WeBt benefit classic Saturdav at San FranclBco, tut to no avail.'the Westerners winning, 7 to 3. Our friend. Bill 2,aaby did yeoman service at fullback for Ibe Eastern stars, but was enable to get loose for a score.
THE SELECTION of Charley.DlcklPson and Ben.Ada afe varlty and freshmen football managers, respecltlvdty, brings to a close one of the- hardest contests for the position ever aeen at Carnegie. In «aet, they were eo evenly matched that the athletic counell decided to ' award Ade a major sports manager's letter, at the conclusion'of the mxt football season. These boys deserve a lot of credit for craslttnn .through.In the tougljei
•n.held at the Hotel 1i bot discussions
t .the shirt e Incompleti cf the huddle would <denying that ellml
tblB objection. The argument against' point of view, bat Ita benefit
. using It, and officials, but Its
oT. ‘he game fri » m. using it o')e .uift was beaded by coacbei roponents -were, too numerous, a t least. The present forward p;:tsm on the ground that it hthe overhead game, but was retained for lack of
md it will remain for sla for a lot of.crlt- :cotnpllsbed its purpose of
. Basket ball season ES with us 
once more with all of Its attendant features. , Carnegie can truly con­sider. herself blessed by the pow­ers that rule in the realm of basket fcali. . In 'tlie first place we have whnt is laughingly, termed by the ie/etee. b ‘.‘feather-bed" floor. This floor was concolved and dedicated by an architect who made the mistake of getting basket ball and! ice hocky mixed. Dame Rumor Iiatfa. it (that flag stone1 paving Is going to be put In before the sea- son starts In ordor that some of tbe .'¡big horses" may feel more at •fcome.,
Up to date there aro three men eligible for the team, including the two coaches. This condition how- over should give us no worry, con­sidering that last year the only 
eligible men .were the two coaches and one of them at the time being tinder contract to^coach^ another t»mT-rJ'The‘ima'th.'i[epartment“haB
roughnobly and
/ There are .still the hopes of, mid­year entries to help the team up, ever, across and through the net. The: advantages ot enrolling mid­year are-myriad Insofar'as basket hall Is concerned. In the ilrat place you'can’t be declared Inellgi- ble' for at l&st thVee rnonths. in the second place tliere Is no repu­tation, to live down In the eyes of the faculty outside1 of the mlsfor- ' tuno of being'an athlete. In the 
third place you are unknown (per­sonally) and get yards of publicity; And in the fourth, fifth and sixth places; oh'well, draw your' own 
,conclusions.
':CaacliIng, at Carnegie is facllltilt-; ed by Uie remarkable plan of hav­ing® new coach for tlie plebes and TOTBity each yeo.'r. This puts every
i of play Is that It keeps the winds of tlie players on tlie alert, tor they do-not dare resort to last' Reason’s, or the seasons; hefore‘3 tactics. But if they should forget they lose nothing for then they are keeping their opponents as well as thoir sophomore team mates guess­ing. There is only one other thing that makes a game more Interest­ing than changing coaches from the viewpoint of all concerned, and that is the playing of the game with two halls. (A detailed ac- eonnt of tliis method next week.)Aside from the'cbniestari'ts there are'olwaya the rooters to be con; eldored. On their heads reBts the iesponsiblilty bf making .the game as colorful and cheerful as-pos^l- 
ifie^k More real enthusiasm can be • worked up ovfer a epllt pint of ll- «jaor than can be gotteu out of the crowd through a field goal in' tlie: Bast second of a tie game.This. playful ¿animosity.. between ' members of the team and “certain” (we. know you, there's no use -hid­ing) members, of tbo' student body inserts life in the game from many angles and, keeps the cheering sec;
»Iona in ¡of hectic enthu-
And believe you us, dear readers, -there Is nothing in the compass' of . onr knowledge that will breed en: thoslasm as fast as- the free. flow­ing of liquor, even ' though' it
meati varsity .basket ball.
. (Continued From Page One), tamp ;.Wodts, General' Electric.
. Company;. January 26',; “Display Windows, Show Case,"and Flood* 
Lighting," by S.. G. Hlbbeo, mana­ger of the commercial department, 
WegUnghouse Lamp Camp; Janu- 
«ry iW, "StreetjLlghtlng and Traffic Control,” by'C..A. B. Halvorson,' 
designing englnear ofthe aeneral
' ^Bleetiic: Wm^'ny.' J.
CARNEGIE GIRLS 
WIN RIFLE OPENER
During the week ending Decem­
ber 11, 1926, Câfnegle, Toch Wom­
en's Rifle Team .fired'its first col­
legiate match. It was against 
Gettysburg College« Gettysburg. 
Pa. Tech’s score was 498 out .of a 
possible 500 and' Gettysburg's 
was 470. Oiit of ten girls who 
Qred the five highest scores c
Lloyd Yoder, captain of Carne­
gie’s great, football team and All- 
erlcan taclUe, is to ' recolve 
re honore to add to his already 
latge collection:' He will be honor 
at a luncheon given by the 
Pittsburgh Carnegie Clan at the 
Fjjr'l PHt Hotel ion .Saturday, Janu­
ary.15, and 1N to be the subject of 
tablet to be erected in the varsity 
clan room in the gymsasiugi.
The reason for all ot this Is that 
Yoder is the first Carnegie football 
player to- have been selected by 
guizètl critics as a member of 
the mythical All-American eleven. 
By 'h'is great playing for the past 
..years, and particularly dur­
ing the. past season, he has brought 
honor to his school, to himseir, and 
© the game.
Unquestionably. national recog- 
lition of Bull’s merit was brought 
about by the downfall of Notre 
ì at the hands of his team. 
Had It not been for this, be would bave beea indeed'fortunate to rate honorable mention, but when critics sought for reasons for the ifeat of the Fighting Irish, they first used all of the old alibis and a few new ones, only to-find that none of them could explain that 19- polnt margin of superiority. And finally they awoke to the fact that Carnegie had a really great team. Coach Steffen came in for his 
share of tbe credit. and now it's
There .is no doubt but that Lloyd is the moBt noted player Carnegie ias yet bad. His prominence Is an 
insurance that Carnegie has "ar- lved” in the world of football, and ihould henceforth secure the place in the national Speight which' It has long deserved; '
The girls who fired for Carnegh 
woi-e:
1. ‘ Ruth Dawson ..'................10'2. Jean Roy ...........................10'3. Alice Bright ........'.............104. Florence Shapiro ............................................................................................. 95. Helen Bright...................... 9
Total ..............'...$. t Barbara Renwlck7. Carolyn Sbults .8. Luciio Sorvick . 9 iBObcl Sheppard10. Eunice Wymau .The Gettysburg tea: sen ted by: "1
1. Isaueile Lakln ..2. Viola Cromer ..,3. . Caroline Harman
..498
5. Vei
Lawney .. Heckenlul
6. Ruth King ...7. Melba Richard8. Dorothy Hemm9. ¦ Dorothy Klme
For the week ending December 18, TeeliTflred a' match against Montana State College, Bozeman, Montana. The latter, However, evidently failed" to lire the match for no report of their score, has reached hero as yeti The Carne­gie girl's score was 495 out ot a possible 600. The girls who fired for places on this match were:
Eunice .‘Clark .............. . .. ..100Calhorine :Boyd ....................... 98Ina. Savander, .........................97Kalherlue1 OJDonnel ............. 96
Vlrgluia Rose ........................' S3Leah Keller ............................ 93Helen Whltelilll-----.................. 91
The girls who ¿nally fired the 
match wore;1. Eunicc'Clark-.........
2. Luclie Servlck...........3. Catherine Boyd ............4. Florence Shapiro ..........5. Barbara Renwiclc........
Total :...............6. Carolyn Sbults7. Helen Bright
.495
The Women’s team fires the Uni­
versity of West Virginia during the week-ending January 8, 1927. Tbe following giHs fired for places 
la the January Matches: .Eunice - Wyman .......... S9Virginia Rose ............'. 98isobel Sheppard ......................S>6Ina Savander ................. 96Helen Whltehlll ..................... 96Leali Keller ................... S3Rose Sky ............................... 83Throughout the month of Jan- uary the {earn tire» In the Nation­al. Rifle Association Womeu’s Dmv te'rcolleglato Chamnlonahlp Matoh for’ 1927.v Firing begins: on Jan­
uary; d anV must be completed by January 23. . ; -
Since considerable Interest ge< 
to have been;, shown by. the girls 
thla year ln th'e possibility of.tak­
ing ‘ the 1 Red Cross tlfe SaSring 
test, Miss Spurlsr and Miss Yeakcl 
have consented to give - an In 
Week' in- coaching' jthe glfla1 so 
they ¿an\’take the . .. test;7 In • the 
spring.-^ it^means 'quite a: number 
of practises but lf\ they all. comt 
:out for them" It wUl be easier and 
quicker to learn.-' The same hour 
bias b'een ; suggested- as was need 
In the fall fof the class team prac­
tice., Those' girls- who are;, really, 
interested, in' this work should..see 
.the^lnfltjTJctora as1' soon as« posiil- 
Ule .and'fiign up. -•
PLAN NEW HONORS 
FOR LLOYDYODER
Varsity RlUe Team Wins 
From Rensselaer M. I. T
defeated Rensselaer and. Massachu­setts Tech-In- the-match which was finished December. 10. M. I. T., the nearest opponent was beaten by 54 a-while Rensselaer was beaten .70 points. . The total scores C. I. T., 1876; M. I. T., 1822; R. P. I.. 1706. These scores are the toiaJs of the five highest men that.make up the 
team.
The match was a four position latch. Each man-fired two sight­ing and 10 record shots In each of four positions, thus, making total possible score 2000 points, be Uaeup and score of the five 
highest men. were: For Carnegie:Eichelberger, D. M„ 378 points; Weatherall, C. H., 376 points; Park,, C. C.. 375 points; Bayne, R.175 points; Fisher, A- M., 973 points.Theso scores were far better than those ot the other schools. .The Carnegie team.is well bal­anced and quite evenly matched The total scores ' this joints ¦ better
? September 24—^Westminster *? at Youngstown, Ohio. +•:* October 1—Thiol ot Forbos *? Field. *? October 8—Drexel at Forbes *? Field. ' . ?? October 15—W. & J. at *? Forbes Field, ?? October 22—Pitt at Pitt *? Stadium. ¦ ?? Octobor 29—WeBt Virginia ?? at Morgantown. *
? November 5—N. Y. U. at *? New York. ?? November 11—Western. Re-*
serve at Forbes. Field. ?? November 19—Detroit U. at **.- Forbes Field. ' ' • *? . * 
* * * * * * * * * * * * *c* * *
they have beqn improving, 
Carnegie should rank among tho leaders. The prospectB are that one or the best men who is at pres- iliglble. will be eligible next
around 390 points. Manager Sweaduer, - a letter man from iBBt year's team* waB al60 unable to ipete In the last match, because in injury from an auto accident, but he will be able to 4» In the next hich is. with West| Virginia 
on January-6. i •The pfebe team Is gelling slart- I now, although no plebe manager .has-beeu appointed as yet, and the plebe manager’s duties are being carried at present by varsity mana- gor Swoadner, and Lieutenant. Ar- 
iwemith uch Uni mge.-Leo Kasehagen, who won the R. . T. C. cup this fall, and who SB captoin of the rifle team of Central High 'School of w;ashlDs- C., has been elected cap-, tain of the plebo team. The first pl.obe rifle match is a. prone match with Gettysburg for December 18. It Is interesting to- note that tbe first, second, and fourth hlghost plebes at', the mid-semester ratings imong the Hest on the plebe
WOODLAWN CLUB GRANTED CHARTER TOPHI .KAPPA.PSI FRATERNITY.
(Continued Prom Page One.) sixteen, tbe Club moved into the Mudgé residence at 6^14 . Forbes street, at that time situated'all alotie at-what Is now the busy cor­ner of Forbes and Murray. In the late fall of 1924,‘ the present fra­ternity house at 4817 Center ave- niie was purchased by the Wood* lawn Club Aluirtni Association for the use of the- active chapter, and it Is ratod as one of' the finest on the campus.- The Grand Arch Councli of the Phi Kappa Psl Fraternity which meets every two years and Is made up of representatives from each of the 48 chapters and, 35 Alumni Associations, was petition­ed four times by the Woodlawn Club before passing in June, 1926. a unanimous vote being necessary as Phi Psl has the unit rùle re­quiring every chapter and alumni association to be In the affirmative before a petitioner can be put on the accredited list for Installation by the Executive Coui formal installation Is to tàhe pliThe
(Continued From Page One) Rlttman. professor and head of the Department of Commercial Engiri-' 
eerlng, who will lecture on “Busi­ness ana Salesmanship;’’. Clifford G. Dunnolls, profesor and head of the Department' of Building Con­struction, who will discuss .“Build­ing Construction, Plumbing and 
Heating Installation;’’ and Dr. R. N. Decker, consulting physician of' the institution, who will 6peak on “Plumbing and Heating as They Affect Health.*;Welding problems will be given considerable attention with two different lecture's covering this sub­ject scheduled. Samuel E. Dibble, licad of the Department ot Plumb­ing, Heating' and Ventilating and .holder of the Theodore Ahrens Professorship in Plumbing, will dlsciisB' “Welding In the Plumbing' 
and Heating Industry“ and Rob­ert B. Lelglicu, professor and head of the Department ot Industrial Science, will speak on “The Welding Process.” Other, lectures listed in­clude “Water Supply aud Sewage Disposal," by Harold Ii Lang, pro- feasor oC Blology an'dl^iblic Health, 
and “The Plumbing Code," by Pro­fessor Dibble'.- Demonstrations oC practical sani­tation. problems, an exhibit of the plumbing, heating and. ventilating products manufactured.In the.Pitts- burgh District, and inspection trips to*.-Industrial planls^are also In-, 
eluded in the program, It is an­
nounced. ,,All members -of ' the ‘plumbing, heating and ventilating Industries are Invited to attend the three days ot'eesslons according to' Dr. Con- neliey's preliminary- announce-
than the.) last
rifle 1O. T.RifleMatch.
glate R. O. T. C. held from January 3 lo February 19, both dales Inclusive. Any membor of the R. O. T. C. is ellgi- > compete In .this match. The will be made up,of the 16 men ig the highest scores, of which the 10 highest Bcores in any stage count as team score {pr that 
sLage.The match .wjll be made ,up ol ur stages, each stage-will con­sist.of two series, each serl.es hav­ing.two sighting shots and 10 rec­ord shots. The positions of shbot- Ing for the two. series in ..the first stage aro prone and sitting, in the second Btage are prone and kneel­ing, in. the third stage are prone and standing and lit tlie. fourth stage are both .prone.The Third Corp area includes all ie .colleges within .the -states ot Pennsylvania,. Virginia, Maryland md tbe District of .Columbia. The earns in this area .havlng the highest scores will fire in the na- IR.O. T, C, match. The Car*, negle team shot in . the sia:, I match.Inst year-and all the members of the R. O. T. C. should elr share toward .winning-this iction again this.year.
the last mooting of the ath­letic council, held Decomber 14, it 
as unanimously voted to awnnl •Id footballs to , the members of th« football team for their splendid 
>rk during the paet season, and especially to commemorate the vie- over. Notre Dame. The foot­balls will be.engraved, with .the -, player’s name . and position, and the Notre Dame'score. ,/£hey \vlli be awarded at the next gen- entl assembly, on January 11. Charles Dickinson of Ridgeway, i., was elected varsity football manager for the coming year; nnd 
BeiT Ado of Rochester, N. Y., was appointed to" manage the next Plebe football..team. Both boys worked hard since their man year, anti It was a tough o make a decision , between them. The Council voted to give Ade a varsity letter, at the end .of text season.'Varsity football letters were Warded to Captain Yoder; Don- oboe, Goodwin, Manby. Mefort, Cowan,/Captain Elect Anderson, Cooper, Sweet, Harpstor, LetMlter, Myers, Lovewell. Geiifues, English, Melziner, Swalle and Cbalupa. Student Manager Williams was awarded.a major sports letter'w.ith bar.__ Numerals wen» awarded to the following freshmen, ¦ znomberB of the Plebe football team: Captain Bowers, Bowser, Booth, Gladhart, Griffiths, Yerina, Morblto, Haug. HerbBt Kennedy, LeQer, Nunnally, ?ey, Schmidt, Gmith,. and Hayes,-the last named being a epe- olal awnrd , duo to Injuries in tho- irst game'which kept him out of >11 but two games. Manager Lyle Sheppard was awarded a minor ts letter, with' bar.J. Hartman, H. L. 'Widom, and R. H. Buckley *>ere named- first as- Blstant football managers for next roar, with' Eaton as alternate. Sec- >nd asBistahts are Wright. Cltni- otll, Cochran, Gibson, and Myers. Minor sports letters were award- 1 to tho following members ot the Cross Country team: CaptainCrawford, Peck, McNair, dalkln, ion, and Campbell. MCnogor Murray Calllnter was awarded ft minor sport' letters with a bar, as Dowling, ’ freshman manager. Npmeruls were awarded, to tho fol­lowing Plobo barriers: McCombs,erson, Talbert, J. J. Snyder and H. 9nydor. Fahnestock, High id McNeil were eelecLed as first Slslont managers.
E. w. Fell was confirmed as var- ;y track captain. He Is a senior . Inter I and -specializes' in the biWd Jurtip and tho low hurdlesl1
SECOND SEMESTER .. ' s' TRY-OUTS SUNDAY -FOR GLEE CLUB
(Continued From Page One)Ips take up three or four nlglits i a row going from one town to another; all the time being enter­'d royally Ivy Alumni and 
ds at their homes and at dances alter the concerts.It''is also very possible that the Glee Club will journey to New York City the second week 1n March as the representative of Western Pennsylvania iu the Na­tional Intercollegiate Glee Club Content We have one of tlie best directors in the country, and if he has all the good. material In the college out for the Club, ho will be 
abie to weld together an organiza- tliat will, stack up with .the best In the country.The opportunity t6 participate in the Home Concert (and Dance; the opportunity to secure an.activities key; the opportunity lo take trips to interesting places; the. oppor-' tu’nity to enjoy , the fellowship-at the rehearsals; the opportunity.to slnj; under the 'baton of a leading, musician of the day; and lastly, the opportunity to learn good music which will live with you all of -juur iife; awaits the men who will take enough interest to come
(Continued ¿Tom <page One) DELTA PHI DELTA — C. Math- las,. Spald, Kleropay, Lutton.DELTA TAU DELTA—G. Rem- mey, W. MtFarland, J. Ashbaùgh, A. Conrad, R. Crist, W.. McDer­mott, W. Hodge, H. Cemmel. R. Gilliland, P. Whitehead, D. Beggs, W. Owens, H. Burnap. '.. DELTA DPSILONtt-J. Muzik, F.
P. Brautlgan, E. Nell, P.. Hubbard. : KAPPA SIGMA—R^: ClmIqttl. R: Wright,’;,R. McCahnn, M. Hayes, G, Kennedy, O. .Leslie, W. Locket,- R. Frèehefer, -B. Thòmpsoon, S.. Qrif-. ïilhs. W. Haug, ,V. Covert, E, Hár- 
roliJ; R. Schmidt, ,.C. Maynard; >B. Nunnally.t.^IÜtfPA SIQMA RHO —r C. Mar? ¦quardt, ; P. Stunts} ;;P. Lowman.^H.
TEAM'TO RECEIVE 
GOLD FOOTBALLS
To be Preseoted at General 
Assembly; Dickinson is 
Football Manager
to bo held la Genera the latter part of May and early in'June. It has. been decided ty the committee. 1 
European musicians are begin­
ning to take the Jau of Broadway and Tin . Fan alley seriously, and tho most distinguished muslcal au­thorities ot the old world'will sit 
In judgement to determine It thé American innovation is the founda­tion ' of à new school or a tem-
porary digression from eaUbllahed 
standard«.'
Among the delegates who-have' already accepted Invitations lo the exposition - art Ernest SchelUng. United States: Vincent Dlady, Ro- mafa; Holland and Maurice Ravel. Freuce; Dr. Richard Strauss'and Dr. Hans Ufltmer. Germany;. Ig*
berg, Holland; Lord Bernert a»d 
Edvard DedL England; Joaeph -Jongon. Belglnm? •-Arnold Schon- berg. Austria; Iger Stravinsky, Rus­sia; VUeslay Novak, Czecho-Slo- vakla; Manuel De Fall«, Spaing Ot- torloo Re3pight, ltaly;: and Yolt^ mar.' Andeae. . Jean BarthoTomi, Fri la Brun. Oostav Do re tand. Ar­
thur Ho^neger. of Switzerland.—> From Pittsburgh.Post
Inners, J. Mayes.PHI KAPPA—W. Henderson, J.' Moibllo, A. Miller,, W, Worland, J. AfcGi-atb, H. Loxtorman, R, Cheese- man, T. Conneley.- J". Spriggs, R- Talbert. M. Klocko, A. Lange, J. Suehr. L.. Holveck, D. Yerina. ACACIA—M. R. Waite, William
PROFESSOR STEIDLE LEC- 
TURES ON THE ASPECTS • OF RESUSCITATION
(Continued-From page One.) : the viotim’e body/ supplemented by ' ise of an--approved Initiator. Those devices have been in use since 1920.<ScIentlfic experiments ' have proved, that- while pure oxygen' 
inds to retard'breatfilng,- oxygen >ntainlng a small amount- of car* bon dioxide will’ stimulate: breath­ing, especially in cases o£ asphyxia­
tion. •In 1923, Stddle points out, a )mmlsslon :of the Amorlcan Gas Association made a report 'which immendcd that the use ot the poeltlve-preasure resuscitation ap­pliances such as the pulmotor and' aotor • bo discontinued; that the use of the “9chaerfer" prone- pressure method of artificial rcspl- n be adopted;' and that in i of carbon-monoxlde poison­ing the “Schaeffer” method be
;nt mixture of oxygen and carbon dioxide Into the lungs.The moBt common causes v^of asphyxiation, according to Profes­sor Steidle, are inhalation of- car­bon dioxide, inhalation of smoke, inhalation •' of carbon monoxide, miscellaneous gases, drowning, and electric shock. Asphyxiation or suffocation lakes place when'a per­son's respiration Is affected so that the >b«dy tlasues do not receive suf­
ficient oxygen and at tbe -same timid imulate an excess of > carbon dioxide.The first tissues of the body to suffer Irom ¿his conditio»: are the higher. centers of’ the brain, and .wheh theae are sufficiently affected 
by asphyxiation'-, the victim be-
(Contiaued From Page One.) 
which rate they would' now b California. The sad tale of i ductor, unfolded in the course Investigation, revealed the fact that the Pittsburgh Railways Com­pany acted as host to quite a few 
hard-hearted plebcB. The sophs, however, ^ere said lo have paid-their, the evening.mtlrely through
presidents were ent in,full force, and/ enjoyed the banquét hugely. - Professor H. K. 
Kirkpatrick was ' at', the baquet this year, and noticed a change'in tbe appetites of the' class ot '29..- .Let;« -have ,*a . better.banquet; 
Plebes!
: EUROPE /» JAZZ
Geneva, Dec.’28.—American'Jazz 
and the mo^enitBt trend in- music as eylderjccd .in the .NeETÓ’ splritu- 
.'alsr wijUbe - featurek of .the ' Exposl- tion.interoationalej de la MuBlque,
We Have Learned That .it io 
Better to Uae -
kiles Rent a (^r Service
For All Occasions '
THREE STATIONS 
6107 Broad Street 856 Sixth AvenueHltand 1300 / Grant-1800 .
125 Seventh Street Student. Passes Issued at
Aprime 
favorite 
oil the campus
IN ANY group, of regular fellows, you’ll find 
Prince Albert. It belongs; It speaks the lan­
guage. You get wfcjat we mean die minute you 
tamp a load of this wonderful, tobacco into the 
bowl of your jimmy-pipe and make fire with 
a match.
Cool, as a northeast bedroom. Sweet as a 
note from the Girl of Girls. Fragrant as a wood­
land trail. Prince Albert never bites your.tongue 
or parches your throat, no matter how fast you 
feed it. You’ll 'smoke pipeJoad oh pipe-load 
with never a regret.
Buy a tidy red tin of P. A. today. Throw- 
back the hinged litf ^mci breathe deeply of that 
real tobacco aroma. Then . • . tuck a neat 
¦ wad into the1 biisiness-enid of your jimmy-pipe 
and light up. Now.you have it'. . . that 
tastel. That’s Prince Albert» Fellowst
>RiNEE ALBERT
—no other tobacco is like tit ¦
OIM7, tt. J. Reyrèldt Tabtá Cos pup, Wlesua-SftkBi, N. «
An independent engineerirtg organization, recently made a survey of fuel costs in the plant of a nationally-known' company that had changed over to gas, for a large part of of its production eighteen months previously. Tlie following quotations, taken directly from the engineer’s report, show some of the advantages effected in this plant through, the use of gas: '
“Cost reduced 28%”"Annual saving S3,676.32"
« “Net, yearly return of 102% on investment?’ •
"Gas more dependable"
“Faster heating”"More accurate temperature control"
Here indeed is food for thought. Perhaps right now :, 
yoti are wondering what gas would do in your plant. 
Our:interesting book, “Gas—The; Ideal .Factory Fuel'' 
will- prove helpful to you. Why don't you send for:... 
your copy nowJ

---------------------------------------------------

ï&CBwjltîibttn
«¦¿osto* oí 'Cantale InCHtsta oí Tcehnoles Rttate8fa<Fst-0ffln •* weond-claap tuffar.
EDITORIAL STAFF 
EdltOT-ln-Chlet ....Managing Editor...News-Editor...'.. :.............Athletic Editor.: :..........William R. Bernardi
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
Ellenor Taillmadge- Robert M;Rrssell BulUcgorRalph HitchcockBartoGrilBss A .E. Fisher 
JUNIOR EDITORS
ALUMNI. EDITORS Margaret Russell Herbert Gran
JUNIOR ASSISTANTS 
Florence McLaughlin ' : Helen ReedJosephine Clark .. John Schneider 
. REPORTERS Stemrt Ralston R/ H. Snyder
Circulation Manager..............................B. BnpowltsAdvertising Manager...'..................Shelby McMlilion
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS James Seibert R. NobleT. R. Zenk A. M. Brown• CIRCULATION ASSISTANTS 
L. Sacks G. W. Brehmst J. Rc BrownH. Kandell A. TepIItz H. L. MarshallC. E. Bias'
"Century.-' to tell the college boys what was 
wrong about their campus publications, espec­
ially their newspapers, college * editors have
been telling the world just why they run their
•papers as they. do. Considering the mess of 
¦exchanges which this office receives, there is 
scarcely a self respecting editor represented in 
the whole bunch who does not periodically re* ...Merrill Holllnstead tíre td jjs office, wrap a cool, damp-towel
--------.* ttiSS DND around his head, and forthwith. proceed to_ - .. . Vnriftlr off a couple of columns about the vir­
tues of collegiate journalism as it is exhibited 
by his particular '‘Clarion.” or /‘Bladder.7’ 
Harold Jacobson Generally speaking, the journalistic morals of 
these especially endowed literati may be class­
ified under exact headings.
First there is the preacher. He.places him-, 
self in the limelight by pointing out the way 
through his weekly sermons. Sermons on tra- 
. ditions, one hundred word pep rallies, mes-
Charles Hertong sages about, co-operation,-pleas for ;a less sel­fish school spirit, and a score of essays on 
other subjects which áre equally as unwhole­
some. He writes glibly on as if a special unc­
tion-had chosen him to show the light to his 
fellow students. Yet; a college editor is'really 
a very ordinary sort of a person. He ¡6 rarely 
endowed with a "gift” for writing, nor is his 
wisdom such that it would command attention, 
Rather is he an average student who has at­
tained his journalistic position bccause of easy 
competition, a willingness to work during his 
first couple of yeare apprenticeship. So it is 
quite presumptuous of him to take advantage 
of hie opportunity to harrangue about his pre­
judices. • • * Into this class do most of 
the editora falL
Fred Woods'Joseph'G. Ritter William McNeil
EXCHANGE COMMENT
M. Mai Inlet
THE NEW NATIONAL
One of the. . .oldest - locals on the . campus, . 
namely, ;the Woodlawn Club, will shortly be­
come Phi Kappa Psl. The date of installation 
will be early this •spring,,^-:•The installation,not only inarks the advent 
of one of the most reputable national frater­
nities in the country on Carnegie^s campus but 
-is also significant in that it leaves but three 
local fraternities at the school.With the' coming of Phi Kappa Psi there, will
s. Then there are the two exlrcmes—the editor 
who tears into every tradition roughshod, stirs 
up trouble just for the sake of the thrill he 
gets out of it; and exactly opposite, the editor 
¦who is never in trouble, whpse editorial page 
is a continuous ode of praise to existing cir­
cumstances. Every once in a while some one 
with ability gets hold of the /special column, 
and the results are always'stimulating-to the 
student body, with the exception of tho few: 
who run things. He searches back into old 
records to prove that a certain thing should 
be damned, and then he goes about damning 
every like circumstance within the pest ten 
years. He is usually witty, intelligent, and
SENSE OR PROPORTION SHY
It le not an uncommon thing to hear leaders in the business and industrial -worlds remark that col* lege graduates prove anything but 
satisfactory for the first year or eo that they are In the employ of some concern or other; that university- men, be they engineers, chemists, or mere Bachelors of Arta, have a decidedly annoying manner of “I know everything" about them when first they enter a firm or company. There are more than a few Impor­
tant corporations here in Canada that think twice before they add young men fresh with degrees, to their pay 'rolls.' Now\doea'it;n©t seem more than funny that, when youths set aside four or five year» of their life specifically to prepare 
the more thoroughly for so^e special pursuit or occupation,'they have. apparently wasted that loiig Ume, in that employers are chary ,abodt signing-them on in anycspao- 
Ity at all? On the face of It, it does not seem logical, bot some­thing Is wrong,'and that,"wanting*’ probably to be found in the ollege graduate rather than in the experienced mas of 'the world. , •
-When a young man leaves the 
porttOs.ot, the .university- behind ^lth It. all .Its Idealistic atmosphere, It is only too unfor* inatoly natural for him to gaze >on everything in the cold world 
ot reality with something border­ing oh contempt He has fceen lead think that alter he collects a col- lege degree all that he has to it into life and sol' iblems by applying the*
With »« «aulii «».uw «> tMM.nm brilliant. ' ¿11 praise to him I The ofter editor,he a -total.of sixteen national fraternities, and drenimspW mouths his ! mth reg-three locals on the:campus. When one consid- . „.jJl.. „ finifthert nroduct which is
ere that the fraternity history of Carnegie can an«? uninteresting • it is never read afterbe included in the short period of twenty years.. f “V , 11 15 nevfr reaQ sner
fhin ig ft remarkable-record and would indicate 'tne 9 • • • •that Carnegie was approaching the larger col-
leges as a fraternity school. There is another type of editorial policy
The Woodlawn Club is one of the oldest fra- which isn’t as easy to classify as the others. A 
temities on tbe campus, having been founded policy which is not a policy, but which is more in 1906. . of a way of approach. Sometimes it is mere
The Phi Eappa Psi charter which has just reporting, sometimes it is entirely nonsense, 
been granted is a fitting reward for a local of More often it is an attempt to stimulate 
the caliber Woodlawn has been throughout its thought than it is to stimulate action. A policy
existence at Carnegie. which neither'seeks to interfere nor to bring
'The Woodlawn Club numbers among its about legislation, butNwhich is interested in 
its alumni many of-the most distinguished Car- mirroring student opimon, in documenting the 
negie men, as wéll .as having a very strong times. Such a policy as this has its weak- alumni organization, these facts together with nesses, no‘doubt. To.the students who like 
its early date of founding are significant in to see a firm standftaken on all questions, this 
i that they indicate the continued quality of the policy would seem inadequate. To the one who 
organization during its career at Carnegie. likes to witness a fuss it would be tame and
Phi Kappi Pai is a well known national of reactionary; to the one who likes to 
the conservative groupand conaiets -of approx- school’s achievements-laboriously commended 
imatcly. fifty-one- chapters geographically dis- it would appear disappointing. In the m< 
trihuted throughout the United States. It was time the editor, calm in. his- knowledge that it 
founded at Jefferson. College in Canonsbuxg, wouldn’t make any difference how much a 
Pa„ in. 1852. - The Wóodlàwn Club has obtain- hullabalo he raised anyway, is having a good 
ed its charter, after a period of eight years time doing^as he pleases, 
petitioningand is the first local which has been jf the “Tartan"*’ policy is to be catalogued,
embraced by Phi Kappa Psi in the past thir- ^ probably fall under the last heading.
hè has memorized In the dai room. With this idea instilled in ie speaks with his elden though he knew equally as n 1 they, if not a little mnre. This not Just an imagination, but a ¦DUlne fact; if you don’t believe . ask any of Canada’s outstand- g employers and business minds. 
Many factors may engender such 1 undesirable'quality in the young graduate, but perhaps one of the lore important is the thoughtless- 9B9 and the absence of serious 1 that same person when he is an 
ndergrnduate; the manner in 'inch be coasts through the four eare ofhlB course,.paying little or o heed to the development o¿-apti­tudes and capabilities, and paying 0 much attention to pie; id a good Ume. Not. that w •cate spending,.all. one’s ui 
ty’career studying, and. going- to church, but. we do suggest that 75 r cent oi McGlll.students. for ex- iple. whether intentionally or not do allow too many' precious hours bo devoted to Insipid pleasure.
A. sense of proportion In evei ing is an essential (actor in si as when one launches out, in the. wide world—then an esàènttel quality that undergraduates sboüld develop when preparing 'for- tbit life’s work is. a-sense of propor- -McGUl Dally.
teen years.F. H. F.
EDITORIAL COMMENT
________rarp-occasions, when the enthu­
siastic cyrving:of,eggB.^akeB.*place,.orwhen‘the 
co-eds take over the grill from 'the Industries 
men. that the editor so forgets ’himself as to 
utter a preachment. -Andboth . these : 
* M. T.’ H.
Drama Department Takes “Passing of the Third
Floor Back” to Inmates of Western Penitentiary
Itwns an eventful day-'for .the 
Inmates of the Western State 
Penitentiary when the Drama De­partment presented “The Passing of The Third Floor Back" by Jer­ome K. Jerome for their, entertain­ment. The prisoners very rarely see productions from the. outside world, and .some of them professed that they had never seen a'play; eo that it was very Interesting to watch their emotional reaction to a realistic drama.
The play that was presented, le to be regarded more as a parable than a play; haTanguini appear to inculcate individuals to emulate those in the hierarchy.' The Spirit of Christ, incarnated In the Stranger, serves to ameliorate and edify In a-manner that Is en­tirely beautiful. , \ :
Had the audience ' of prisoners felt that they were being sermon- Ized they would have immediately resented it fcy evincing their dis­gust The criminals seem to be endowed with a herd outer shell that Is immune to sanctimony, and it is only when this shell Is .pierced that the true religiosity at the core- ot the criminal is found. ' The play jailed lo penetrate this shell and so It remained merely an after noon's entertainment that was punctuated by systaltic laughter.The lines of the play, which had previously' seemed ‘'quite' simple were immediately distorted by ifr prisoners to have a comic mean ing. The subtleties of the drama escaped their attention, but thrfin: significant lloeB — those - which would be expected to appeaae the palate of puerility, were immensely appreciated by the audience:' The afternoon performance came as. a supreme relief to the Incarcerated- men; tbeir emotions like thé tran­sitory andr.fleetlng May-fly: lived buoyantly .for :a few.ihours .while they. werewitnesBingapag thé book of life;The » Jezebel type of woi
the play seemed'to find favor with the audience vjrhile the supercUl- i and haughty heroine .obvious-
commotlon. and. wh^nwthe "Thief* and Whisky we tered, a rousing cheer nearly re­sulted. The prisoners gave with their hands .when theihero and heroine Uased each other.-«bd ¿hey laughed , heartily when vthe characters wept." Although'the jrtsoaen are very humai the re«/
for them taking this intlthett- view of appreciation' may lie In the fact that life has dealt with ,em moat unkindly.
When the painted lady uttered ie line, “It's a funny world ?ith lot of ;funny people-In it,” the reaction that swept over the men ed to be one'of mutual agree- And when the Stranger confessed “That he lived so out of the world,” this stray sentiment probably cut verydeeply -withthose who will nevi>f. the i The Western standing on the appears . like
j the <
State Penitentiary, banks of the Ohio, one of thOBe huge i ol the Mediaeval. Agee—an - indomitable, monument granite that enloiabs the living ils of more than a thousand men.' The faces that one sees peering through .the hors is reminiscent or icerblc faceB that peer out from between the millions In of early iterlng or leaving this Penal Institution one passes through many iron doors- like the locks on a canal; one door is securely locked before .the other Is opened. Advancing clvlltzatlon. 
It eeem6, needs securely . locked doors In order that It may advance.
The mass of individuals that sat in the dimmed chapel, where the play was given, had all suffered the cruel benediction of Justice;, theirs had been the ordeel of the courts; they had passed through trials and had been judged on the’ aberration ot a moment As thev sat-there with their pale etiolated, faces, each Intent on tbat glimpse of the outside world which was be ing presented on the stage, there «till- lived ¡behind .- those concen­trated , countenances, sanguinary and rapacious characters.
: The prlsoh remains a place 
where a man.-loses-hls true self: where he Is given a^number and' Is known by thlB number alone the rest of his Incarceration: 'and "a; place -where:'6veryAone is counted thjee times a> day. The only sounds that .reach-.- the prisoner's eare from lhe>oulsIde wbrld come' from the whlstt<es.'o|;the-barges that pass on-the .river outside the walls and the bells that ring from the towers of-dlstant^eathedrals.-. After th? -play was -over the prisoners slowly flled out of the 4*rk.dismal' chepel lnto^tfae court 
yard Bells from distant lethe- dra*e were tolling the »vealng ifv 
pen:' - fMr‘-i«all*tlcva£eae4-or the
butelde .world that they had Jus wllneteBed waa immediately ol Uterated by the sight that coi fronted them. High on the wall' silhouetted against the red rays e a setting sun, sentrys with rifles over their shoulders, marched back and forth.HAROLD JACOBSON.
INTERCOLLEGIATE ITEMS
frost, But at C. C. N. Y. U sophomores 'caught the frosh pre: dent some time before the smoke and. treated him to. a pleasai ride. When he had reached a rath' densely populated pan of the cli he was given the choice betwe< walking home in shirt and aocl and accepting an invitation to tl Soph Smoker. He overcame his natural abhorence of smoking after a little persuasion.
' Some.. zealous students of ST. LOUIS -UNIVERSITY wentto LOY OLA UNIVERSITY just before the two colleges met in their ; football game, and pre-empted the college’s pet mascot, goat.
the
ten cents for a bar of soap tlii usod In giving the animal a much- needed bath. A vote of thank was given to tbe twenty freshmei who spent a sleepless night ^ng the goat the -nlgbt before the
played-by COOPER- TECH'S was . the Poly game of last 
day.’’—-The Pioneer.” i COOPER UNION.
Over 200 father« were entertain­ed at GETTYSBURG COLLEGE on Father and Son .Day: The is the third In Us history and will be made an annual- institution of the school ev*nt». The evei in the handsTOf a stuoenV commit-
.--Thisf.is a year of fallen cham- -ploas-r-boxlng. > tennis, golf and teaeball have new. leaders. Bat 
the oaly case os record of a cham-
:ondui
There has been too much prais­
ing done In thio column lately— 
great a supply of admiring ad­
jectives and 'panegyric parts ot 
speech. Such a state of affairs will' 
never do. Partially to remedy it let 
me emphatically declare that move 
shoddy trash Is being written in 
tbe present sickly'light of this day 
than was ground out yesterday;
icrubby, flimsy, fribble will 
be turned loose tomorrow than was 
on paper today; and the 
output' of fly-blown, purulent;
ity, leprous .litter for the day 
after that will be nothing Bhoct of 
nonstrous. Tbe gim-cracfcs and 
he Blush and the scum of tetters 
vlll go on accumulating and 
iprecdlng as long as the ten-lon 
rucks of the- People’6 Publishers 
told out, and the reading public 
emalas what it is. Such is the 
latlook for that ever-present 9» 
ter cent or <3ur literature which is 
ind always will be shoveled into 
uncounted millions of laws.
South Wind—Norman Douglas 
I have not.read ".South Wind.’’; 
I have tried three tlmeB to do it 
ihree times Is enough. It may 
be all that the encomium on the 
; it is, bat the first 97 
pages are not Some Ume wh< the Beneath 
“South Wind” gave- me (forblt it Heaven!) I shall find a 
ihallow, stagnant river creepli trivial way among weeds, and 1 tall gaze into It—but not 
ng.Erik Dorn-'Ben Hecht "Erik - Dorn” belongs to ever school of writing. It has ore epigrams in e paragraph than
iges. It is one of the most itely woven'fabrics of new and littering word-patterhs that ohe 
Hp find in present-day writing. And this virtuosity technique In ds is not the only striding thing
Notes of Music
By AUan V. Nern
I Boheme") ..............PacdnlMr. JohnsoiL- Arla: uMl Chumano.Mual'’ ("I*
Boheme”) .........-......... PucciniMiss Lewis.
Duet: ' Finale, Act ' I, . “La Bo*ieme”........ Puccini
Miss Lewis end Hr. Johnson. '
ell In lending to the scramble of 
fe Its proper artificiality, Its ab- 
ence ot real meaning. He has made apparent Its grotesquely me­chanical nature, has fitted It Into yrtlions oí a huge machine-7 
and' when one examines more closely, that machine itself is dls-. covered to be a shadow. ...
The chief puppet in the show DN 'rik Dorn, and it is through his 
eyes that we observe the automs* called people, the pink rhea which are called faces,’ oxes called booses Into which.the thingB-.caUed-men creeps.'lt .is
bis ’conception' of the whole spec- tacle which dominates the book, amusedly 'tolerant dealings tbe queer forked creatures 
. him; his reactions to the giddy turmoU ln< post-war <Jer- ; bis half-Ufe In the newsps- office; hie love-affair with Rachel, the pathological Jewess— .bese furnish the material for plot. But the story Itself is no important as the way in which It is told. The well-known Professor 
John Broadus Watson would be, ind-no doubt Is, eitremely fond of it 'for It is a crystallization in art form of what he should like to seo happen, everywhere.. It - is Jntro- 
ipectionism- gone- crazy-, and meta­morphosed somehow into extrem­ist behaviorism.
And college professors In gen> eral can find much in It.to admire, because it represents. a tendency of their own in its ultimate .form. When a'professor struggles-with a 
heavy witticism, holding it desper­ately off until he has found .exactly appropriate words to swaddle.it in, he may, if he wishes, feel some slight touch or kin with Ben Hecht. Students, at least thoBe who can uadefstand him, ere fond of him for a similar reason: he-ls lncredl; bly apt in. making what they cali
It Is possible that the reason, for 
the..long, delay, in the book's-.ap- pearonce was simply that the au­thor had not got his epithets and eplgTatnB all nicely horded. At any rate, his public cannot bnt be thankful that he succeeded so wc .. A. E. FISHER.
4—Mary Lewls-Edward. Johnson. Mosque.?—New . York Philharmonic,
: Mosque. ...8—New York Philharmonic, mati-
11—Alexander Brailowsky, Carney 
• gle Music HaL 13—Joseph Czlgeti, Carnegie Music 
HalL17—Rùlh Draper, Carnegie Music HalL24H-Fritz Kreisler, Çarnegle Muele .HalL''il—Rosa and Carmela Ponsellë, 
Mosque.(La Scala Grand Opera, Mosque. 15—“Aldo.”
17—"Rlgoletto."18—-“Cavalleria” end “Pagliacci.'’19—“Traviata/' matinee.
19—“Faust,” evening.20—“II ’’Trovatore.” %2z—“Lucia di Lammermoor," mati-
H. A-26—New York Symphony, Mosqi29—New York 6ymphony. matln<30—Polyphonic Choir, • Carnej Hall.
Contribs and Comments
Editor’s Note—The following let- ter. concerns an: article in a Tecent Issue-of the ^Tartan;’* written by one of the members of the Oxford Debating Team, copied. 1n ex­cerpts, from the “New (Student”7 Roeelawn Terrace. ' Pittsburgh. Pa. Dec. 11, 1926. Editor, "Campus Opinion”Tartan Office.Dear SI9:. Perhaps you will allow me to say a few words in appreciation of your new column for 'public eg­ressions of opinion, and in reply ) th? Oxford man’s article In your
PROGRESS IENGINEERING
t Is but .a^repeti^lon.pl.the pld ry ';to,,»rge students ¦ at Stevens read, or at least, peruse, engi­neering literature and publications. 
And as advice freely given is usu­ally freely refused It Is 'not an un> impUon to say that par­ticular advice probably goes the the rest But In spite of unhesitatingly recommend reading the December Issue of the outstanding mechanical engineer. Ing publications. .It will .prove to be instructive, interesting and prof. 1 table.
The publication lo which we re­fer is Mechanical Engineering, the 
Journal of the A. S. M. E. A large' part of It.this month Is gi' 
to descriptive summaries of the progress accomplished in mi the breaches of engineering with which the mechanical englui may come In contact. We cannot urge on you too strongly to av yourselves of this • opportunity secure in' condensed form t
t the profession in
LseaUable; The- first ny * employers' have not > really' :opted the value of knowledge or culture. The seeond Is that our artificially stimulated mass-enthu- 1 for “activities” Interferes with learning to,think:like so many European col- graduates, he has come to doubt everything naive without having acquired positive opinions >f the sophisticated sort. He says, or ¿example,, that a . man can<edu- :ate- himself oS well' In a rocking- chair ae in a .class-room. But this is obviously not true In general;It not depend on the kind of education which the man desire^? He also remarks that the best col­lege is that whose degree Is tbe most difficult to obtain. But is there- not an advantage in having the bachelor’s degree mean thing quite defli
advancing engineering 1
Contribs and Comments€35 Plymouth Road, 
CatonsvlUe, Md., December 27, 192 Merrill Holllngsfoead* \ Editoren- Oilef, The Carnegie Tartan, Room 12, Industries Bldg., Car- negie Institute of Technology,
alumni depends on certain feature of the paper, which' are. of ihter'ee who are gone from th
this phase of
ad the editoriali read are the It«, erest.' I believe th!et your paper could be
SITY student. His title plon hitch-hiker to the college. The young lady, the new champion, slats that her victory was. n<
over manly determination, but.
chivalry. It l§ c-champ reached
winning
the 1
that hie opponent was already there. The age of chivalrv.
-. The> faculty; at- RUTGEhSis Ingto. enforce Chapel attends 
The student Is-allowed two ui cused absences from Sunday Chapel and five, unexcused absences from dally Chapel. After that he re­ceives a notice that a-repetition of such behavior shall result In a pen­alty oC three 1 hours added to the number of hours;added tn gradus- tlon^. In the eese'Of continued ab* seQCft-siupenaloii.for the--semester' or for the,year may: follow;
of December 7. admit that- EngUs!
lakes i>olnts that 1-that
all ciua]„ ;
BRAILOWSKY RECITAL
Pittsburgh Is to have the first American recital tble season of Al­
exander Brailowsky. the Russian pianist . From Paris, where the pianist pldyed 26 programs in two ins and only repeated one, the of Alexander Brallowskyhas id all over the continent of Eu­rope, and since his American debut u years ago, be is a welci iltor to many cities of the new world. Brellowsky's Pittsburgh re­cital will be given at Carnegie Mu­sic Hall on Tuesday evening,-Jaik- ¦y 11.' He will present .the fol­lowing program: ;«Thirty-two Variations, C minor.........-.7................ BeethovenSuite. “Pour le Plano”;.. .Debussy' Prelude, Sarabande, Tocatta.clurne. G major.........V. .Chopin.Ballade, G minor..................ChopinWaltz. A flat major.’..........ChopinAndante Splanato and Polonaise....................................... Chopin'Chorus of St>lnners,” from the 
Flying Dutchman ..Wagher-Llszt
T—*16D0—-HMiHFBY.
Villem Mengelberg- will give, the 
fourth pair of concerts under,the Pittsburgh .OTcheBtra ' Aswdation' 
Syria Mosque next Friday even­ing and Saturday , afternoon; Jan* id S. The program:' Frldaj1 Charles Bach;.... ...........
................. Slnfonla Overture(First t:me In Fitlsbtugb.). 
Chabrior. (Prelude . to Second
Act) ....................“Gwendoline”Stravinsky .......... .Little* SuitesFirst time in Pittsburgh!) - 
Beethoven ......Eighth SymphonySaturday Afternoon. ,
Mendelssohn Overture;-:.....,......,
................i*. “FingaTs Cave”Brahms-..............Third. Symphony
Prelude and Finale from "TrlBlan 
and Isolde. 'Wagoer.Prelude from "Lohengrin"
. .Prelude to “Die Meisterslnger”
The third of the Edith 1 Taylor 
Thomson Concerts,' which will take 
place on Tuesday evening, January 
11, at Carnegie . Music Hall, will 
bring to. the city "for ., the. second 
time the great - Russian ’pianist 
Alexander brailowsky. Mre. Thom­
son.introduced this amazing player lo 'Pittsburgh last .season and has bad many-.requdsts that he return. The season before Brailowsky 
made his American debut he was the sBnstttion-of^Europe.. Thirteen appearances in Paris to houses 
that were absolutely packed is the record of his appearances .there in one season. A mell'known Ameri­can, writing to his New York man- 
agera, said, “I-was. In Paris this spring and everyone In musical cir­cles was talking about Brailowsky. anxxlous to hear thlB new lonal pianist,'.rtried Ut-.se- 
ilcket but I was unable to ie - to any ot his concerts." 
Brailowsky . made bis American debut in Aeolian Hall November, the mpsttalked of planlBt pf the eeason. Prominent virtuosi eot-lnlo heated
accept the statement that, the chief business of the' stuident'-'Is think, let onr inquli of Carnegie’s self-sup- portlog night students, and Judgi himself whether they have learned to think!No: I think it is" fairly obvious 
at our Oxford/critic has in ml literary education of the Oxfo pe, and tbat he regards ltN p haps unconsciously, as • the 01 kind.worth having...
it is, of .course, a sad mistake lo suppoee that a person who can 
neither.write nor speak correctly 1a well educated, though he may have liege degree. But it Is equally (stake to suppose that a man ot.well educated if he-has.-.not 
’a classical ' training, wjlh, lel- ; to. perfect himself, in. self-ex- slon along Individual linen, tie article which I am discuss- seems Incoherent In places.'ae though It had suffered by Injudi­cious “cutting.1' (Would it not be well tc print a ptece with full credit?) However, there are some foolish things in it for which the 
sponslblllty.
CONCERT AT SYRIA MOSQUE
iry Lewie, s “ward Johnson, tei the MetropolitanComGrand Opera•ny,
llze that that-.stu- the basis
r the (
•ouble Is
d tbaithis is tlie case in France'.To my mind, the whole that our Oxford friend hi fined Education, either for himself or for us. Is he thinking of the bread-and-butter aim, the knowl­edge a|m, the culture aim, har­monious'development of the facul­ties, or self-realization? Each of these alms is legitimate enough, provided no single one of them Is regarded as telling the whole story of education. What can our critic mean by. the broad and vague, as­sertion that no man bas the time both to earn a living and to learn all that a university can teach him? Probably that a man who peyotes all of his time to study and college contacts'of other kinds will
autboiHe does not seem to 
colleges are endowed- dents may be selected of ability rather than wealth. 
Being accustomed to the English trick of humorous under-emphasis, he .has been grossly misled-by the American trick of humorous over­emphasis. Neither the. high school senior nor the college freshman Is as black as he has been painted by thé gloomy Deans with whom friend has talked.If we overlook the absurdly aggerated “example1' .of the r who by attending classes only In
four years, we can hardly Ignore the anecdote with which our Eng I1sh contribution closes. After all a man must educate himself; Un most tbat lila teachers can do. 1: to point the way and smooth the path. Those teachers who forget this, and Indulge 1n “forcible feed­ing,” arè quite properly (o 'be ac­cused of . laying a blighting hand on the'subjects they tei anyone who. remembers hi* teachere as drivers rather tbau ac guides' has -been unhappy
i : that t will 1ielf-si
developed In ofder to properly maintain the Campus - feeling amongst those who are away from school and no longer have ImmdBi ate points of contact. I have been practicing my pro fesslon of Engineering for somt seven or eight years. I am going to make the suggesttoa that you as­
sign me a column, call - It. say. "Business and Engineering Notes." Suppose-1 . contribute a few - hun­dred words for this column each week.’ I would-make (t brief and condensed and Just enough in- de­tail to be valuable.” '
- L would write my article eachweek on some, pbase of the above which would be of Interest to a fel­low alumnus who Is striving to get a: foothold In either business or en­gineering and who ie Interested In picking up Information bearing- on 
the general problems tbat be meets In his work. 1 •' rlYou.can readily see how thla will Increase-the value of tbe "Tartan” Inasmuch as the Alumnus will read something therein-In which'he. Is vUaliy. interested, aad.-'of course- he will naturally Increase bis Inter-- est. In the valuable Items ’Which
- ; l:have had a small experience ln
Syria Mosque next Tuesday evea- Ing, January 4. Ellmer Zoller,. who accompanied Edward Johnson on his Oriental tour last year, -and who bas. also played many times for. Mary Lewie, will play the piano panlments . for both artiste Tuesday, night. The. .pro­
ludi, e. Aria: “Colpito quim’avete” from “Andrea Chen-.ler” ...............Umberto GlodanoMr. Johnson.‘Care-Selve” ...................fisoni‘Stnendchen1’. .. .............ÌStfai•Hymne au Solell”........ .OeOrfMiss Lewis. !"I<e Passant” (Kllngser).. .G. Hue "IMmanche , a 1’Aube” (BasseBretagne) .................Ducoudray"Zwelgung” (Von Glim)............................... Richard StiMr. Johnson.Aria: “Depula ie Jour” fn'Louise" ................. CerpentlerMlsa Lewis. , /Duet: “Madrigal” ffom “Romèoet.Juliette” ....'................GounodMias Lewis end Mr. Johnson. "Linden Lea” (BornéB)...................................R. V. WlUIom“Tho Crying of Water” (Tipton)
....................... Campbell-Ttptoi“Kangaroo and Dingo” (Kipling)........ Edward GermanMr. Johnson.“The Holy -Child"........ .Martin“The Second .MJnuel”............Besly"The Voices of Children”.Rummel- Miss' Lewis.- •Aria: “Che Gelida Manina” (“La
And so it Is more.sorrow than 1 anger that I write, these few line of objection and reproof.Very truly, yours,CHAfl. WILLIAMSON.
writing artlctes for .the technical press along professional lines. a shall, only be tbo glad to ma small weekly contributions to yo paper. Yours tnily. .JOHN C. SOMERS.
Both new and old students s^rfbld.note that.they can get un- -usual fountain pen service by call- Ina at the. branch store of JBInger Pen and Gift Shop, No. 3941 Forbes.street, schenley Apartment block,.or the.Main Store-In Jenk­ins Arcade.*
Patronize
Our*
c/4dvertisers
¡umenta, leading 'teachers flock-i hear him andtheir
pupils. He gave another r tbe aame hall In'December, com* pletely. sold out,. and..a thinl. in 
'January, this time' at lCarneg(e isle Hall. StUl people demanded hear him and he gave a fourth Carnegie Hall la' -February. Splendid record for a first season •
e of the most delightful ar- who ever' visits Pittsburgh, Ruth Draper, will return. on Monday evening) January 17, and give one of . the marvelous programs, of Original .Character.' Skelch.es, at Carnegie, Music Hall in. the evenlngv Since her lost Pittsburgh appearance last season, Miss Draper has taken London by storm and her recitals there In the spring ntttracted. vast audiences:A good, many attempts have bsen /made-to- analyse, .the- art ofv-t£ls: ‘great actress, who, without stage' settings of any ¿Ind; save.a^slmple table and a chair or two. can matte-- that same stage appear to be peo­pled with all sorts of characters. Her pecollar gifts appear -to. de­pend as much up the psychology ot the-'beholder aa^upon her own mimetic skill. It has become trite to say Miss Draper Is able to “peo­ple” her stage at will, although It Is undoubtedly true. ;By a gesture, a: trick of poeture. an lntonaUon, the ; raising of an eyebrow, the manner of wearing a- shawl or fluttering a handkerchief, her power of sugges­tion Is so marvelously defr that she can doss from'one to another- of the fancied characters with some­thing of the hurry ln_ which con­versation 1a tossed from mouth to mouth In a crowded room. Mies Draper has always been a favorite . In Pittsburgh, and she ^111 bring some:of the newest jand most suc­cessful sketches' on tbe program lo Pittsburgh.
Well-dressed reports *are like well-dressed people
Ifcmington.Portable
The Becsfifad Uddir In
the part appearance plays in your college work. Neatly type­
written reports, lecture transcrip­
tions and theses create a favorable 
unpresslononthe powers that be. 
Get a Remington - Portable and 
dress up vour work. Your pro­
fessors will appreciate the dean« cut, legible- writing and the 
chances are this appreciation will 
be reflected in the marks you get. 
Remington Portable is i/je port- - 
able. It is the smallest; lightest» and most compact machine with 
four - row., standard ¦ keyboard.:
' Handiest, fas|est, most depend« 
.able, and simplest to operate. 
Weighs8% pounds net. Can be 
bought for as little as $10 down 
and' $S moothly. ^5old and Popularity
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE- OF TECHNOLOGY
«90 FORBES STREETWOODLAWN PHARMACY
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Remington Typewriter CVmpany
¦ IHEMER BUILDING, 102 SIXTH tTREET, PITTMURGH, PA.
C* -r________
