TARTAN STAFF 
MEETING 
WEDNESDAY, 1 P. M.(lari an
EASTER VACATION 
MARCH 27 — APRIL 6 
NO TARTAN
VOL. XIV. No. 23.
STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
HOLDS MOINTHLV MEETING
Student Handbook and Thistle 
Discussed.
CARNEGIE. INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA.MARCH 17, 1920.
The regular meeting of the Board 
of Student Activities was held March 
10. A lengthy discussion of the stu­
dent handbook to be issued next year 
was held; letters from different 
scool activities asking for the privi­
lege of editing this book were read to 
the board. It was finally decided by 
the board that the handbook should be 
edited by a joint commilttee from two 
honorary societies, Delta Skull and 
Dragons. These two, societies will 
work with the Student Activities pub­
licity committee, each having equal 
representation. Advertising in the 
handbook will pay for at least 50 pei 
cent of the cost of editing. A fee will 
be charged for each book next year, 
but the charge will be small in com­
parison to the valuable information to 
be put in the book.
The collection of the outstanding 
debts of the 1919 Ehistle was dis­
cussed. This collection has been put 
in the hands of a committee of three 
men who will pick a reliable man, who 
working on a commission basis, will 
make a personal drive on all organiza­
tions, fraternties and societies still 
owing money for photographs or write­
ups in the 1919 Thistle. This is a final 
effort to collect money rightly due the 
1919 Thistle Board.
The Student Activities has decided 
that a wise plan would be to have the 
1921 Thistle editor elected early in 
this school year. The editor comes 
from Science School and the election 
will take place soon; in this way, the 
Board hopes to give the 1921 Thistle 
a good start for next year, giving the 
editor a chance to get acquainted with 
the difficulties of editing a year book.
The question of a Gradaute Manager 
for non-atliletlc activities was consid 
ered. There Is no doubt of the fact 
that a graduate manager is very much 
needed; he would give personal at­
tention to every activity now undei 
the Student Activities Board; a big 
man will be needed for the place. The 
question Is under consideration of a 
committee now, and more details can 
be given later.
Since the Union grows more popu 
lar every day, it was decided that a 
charge of $5 would be made for any or­
ganization using the Union during the 
day, morning or afternoon.
The reports of the various non 
athletic activities were read and ap­
proved. These reports, due each 
month, are the only means this Board 
has of keeping track of the activities 
receiving aid from it. The hearty 
co-operation of the managers in send 
Ing their reports on time is very much 
appreciated by the Activities Board.
ARCHITECTURAL CLUB 
PLANS LECTURE SERIES
Initiation of New Members 
Soon.
The Tech Architectural Club at 
their last meeting decided to have a 
series of lectures by prominent archi­
tects. It is planned to have these 
lectures will not only be extremely in 
teresting but greatly beneficial as 
well.
Arrangements are being made for 
and exhibition of work done by the 
members of the club.
Arrangements are also being made 
for the initiation of new members and 
the banquet.
The dance committee is making 
preparations for the annual dance to 
be held sometime in the early spring.
A number of committees have been 
appointed to take charge of the dif­
ferent activities so that the club will 
soon be on a pre-war basis.
Ö. c.
WIEN MEET Ai FORM CLUB
The Maryland and District of Co­
lumbia met last Thursday night and 
organized. The attendance was ex 
ceedlngly good and everybody was en­
thusiastic about the prospects of that 
club. A committee to formulate a con­
stitution was appointed. The next 
meeting will be held about the third 
week in April and at that meeting 
every representative of that locality 
is expected to be there. The publicity 
committee intends to see every man 
personally and get him to be present 
at that meeting. Officers for the en­
suing year will be elected at that 
meeting.
DRAMA SCHOOL
^wwMiiiimnBBtn'nrimflnwnHnRRHimnnwinnniwHffnfflnnnnniiHHnsi’nniiiH'in
It appears there are a few other 
things with which one must become 
acquainted when he aspires to the 
four-year course of Tech's school of 
drama. There is scene painting and 
costume making, stage work—like 
shifting sets and moving properties— 
lighting, theater routine and manage­
ment, to say nothing of dancing, fenc­
ing, music and aesthetics.
Also one gets a little history of 
such things as the theater, dramatic 
literature, costumes, furniture, period 
and otherwise, and architecture. Then 
there is sculpturing, the study of a 
language or two, and instruction in 
dramatic composition.
One gets a smattering of all ot 
these, but the greater part of the time 
is spent in rehearsals. The course is 
difficult, according to the professors 
and this probably accounts for the 
fact that lew graduate. Last year 
three got their diplomas and two are 
expected to get the sheepskins nexi 
June.
The drama course was inaugurated 
at Tech six years ago and several for­
mer students have acquired more or 
less fame on the professional stage. 
Charles Meredith is rapidly making a 
name for himself in pictures after 
having appeared in several stage pro­
ductions. Mary Blair has been at the 
Guild Theater in New York for some 
time and Elise Bartlett played with 
Lou Tellegen for a year. Edna Lewis 
Willey played in “A Prince There 
Was” last year and Eula Guy ap­
peared in the comedy, “Dear Me.”
The plays given during the past 
year included for the most part, stan­
dard compositions or sketches by rec­
ognized authors. Among them are 
“The Admirable Bashville,” "The 
Bracelet,” "The Land of Heart’s De­
sire,” “Riders to the Sea,” "Dust of 
the Road” and ‘‘Double Dyed.” "Betty 
Jumel,” by Owen White, a member of 
the school, was the second full length 
drama produced, written by a student,
Approximately 20,000 persons have 
attended the plays during the season 
in the Tech theater. The play house 
has a capacity of about 400 and is 
filled to capacity at almost every pro­
duction. All performances are free. 
Invitations are Issued for first nights 
and tickets given lo those who evince 
sufficient interest. Additional shows 
am given for the students of Tech and 
other schools and for civic or social 
organizations.
Students have the advantage of 
working under such recognized pro 
ducers as B. Iden Payne, who directed 
the productio nof Bernard Shaws, 
“The Admirable Bashville”; Hubert 
Osborne, who produced "The Land of 
Heart’s Desire,” and others; Chester 
Wallace and Thomas Wood Stevens, 
in charge of the school.
Tech’s school of drama is unique in 
that no college in the United States 
can boast of anything like It. The 
nearest competitor is Russia and it is 
believed that the Russian schools 
have discontinued the work.
The course leads to a degree of 
Bachelor of Arts In Drama. In the 
upper years of the course, the student 
has his choice of three options, and 
may complete his training, special­
izing in acting, playwriting or pro­
ducing.
Spring Quarter Registration
Exhibition HallArts Building
All day students, in all Divisions are required to report for ltegis- 
jj tration and payment of quarterly fee of $25.00 on one of the following 
§j days:
March 24th, 25th, & 26th
9:30 A. M. to 11:30 A. M.
1:30 P.M. to 4:00 P.M.
Each student must present for identification the small card issued 
at the time of registration for the Winter Quarter. If this card hus 
been lost or mislaid a duplicate may he obtained from the ffice of the 
Cashier.
The usual fee of $1.00 a day to a maximum of $5 will be charged 
for late registration (exclusive of the holidays).
At the mass meeting of all Divisions on February 25th the student 
body voted that all men and women students in the day school, con­
tribute $5.00 to the capital fund of the Athletic Association, to he paid 
at the time of the Spring Quarter Registration.
The Cashier will be prepared to collect athletic funds on the dates 
given above.
Federal Board Students
All students assigned to the Institute by the Federal Board for 
Vocational Education are required to register for the Spring Quarter 
in accordance with the above information and a record of the registra­
tion will he sent to the District Office of the Board.
No payment of fee is required of Federal Board Men, but a state­
ment of authorization to register must be secured in advance from the 
Office of the Dean of Men.
CALENDAR
March 27, Saturday—End of the Winter Quarter.
April 6, Tuesday—Classes begin—Spring Quarter.
May 31, Monday—National Holiday—No Classes.
June 7, Monday—Commencement.
June 19, Saturday—End of Spring Quarter.
ALAN BRIGHT, Registrar.
No Southern Camp
For Honus’ Proteges
Many Old Men and New Material
Report for Preliminary Training.
Equipment Scarce.
LOVING CUPS TO BE GIVEN TO BOXING CHAMPIONS
Boxing! That is the subject. This 
art is probably a new thing for this 
school, but actions to organize a Tech 
Boxing Team has begun and it will 
be successfully finished for Tech is 
doing it. To make this art a success 
we desire a good turn out of capable 
men. If you think that you can box 
but never practiced it, come out too 
The field for eligible men ranges from 
115 pounds to 165 pounds. There are 
six classes of weights, id est, 11* 
pound class, 125, 135, etc. Therefore 
the range of weights includes a good 
number of men.
An elimination tournament will be 
held within the next two or three 
weeks and the winners in each class 
of weights will be presented a “Silver 
Loving Cup.” To get that cup enough 
men must enter that tournament so 
that an elimination could be made 
The idea of this tournament is to 
choose the best men and develop* 
them so next year Tech will have a 
good boxing team. Meanwhile, sched­
ules of contests with other colleges 
will be made, so the men would get 
a chance to practice. Now let’s all 
get behind this movement and make 
it a succgss. There are a good num­
ber of available men at Tech so come 
out and see Coach Hazel as soon as 
possible. The following men have en­
tered for that tournament: 115 pound
class, J. B. Barr, Martie and H. Car- 
fagna; 125 pound class, S. Rosenblatt 
and F. Richards; 145 pound class, H. 
Morris and WItmer. Lets increase thai 
list of names by next week. See 
Coach Hazel today.
The Carnegie Tech baseball man­
agement has decided not to go South 
for rtaining this season, duo chiefly 
to the objection of the faculty, but 
will wait until weather is suitable 
and Tech Held has lost some of its 
water. And as weather predictions in­
dicate, baseball practice will be in 
full swing about the beginning of next 
quarter.
Honus Wagner, “The Flying Dutch­
man,” once short stop for the Pirates 
is coach and besides boing coach he 
Is Tech thru-and-thru. There is some­
thing in having Honus coach iug you, 
so all would-be baseball men want to 
be out. The student body has recent­
ly taken a new grip on athlotics and
¦DON’T FORGET THE GIRLS
Home Concert and Dance
Arts Building April 16th.
FINE ARTS DEPARTMENT ANNOUNCES JURY OF AWARD
Director John W. Beatty of the De 
partment of Fine Arts, Carnegie In 
stitute, Pittsburgh, announces that the 
International Jury of Award for the 
Nineteenth International Exhibition 
which opens on April 29, has been 
elected.
Among the eminent men elected thl& 
year to serve as members of the Jury 
are Julius Olsson from England, An­
dre Dauchez from France, who has re­
ceived medals from international ex­
hibitions in many countries, including 
the gold medal at the Carnegie In­
stitute; and eight men from America 
who are nationally famous. Emil 
Carlson is an American of Danish 
birth, who is recognized as one of the 
able contemporary painters. Bruce 
Crane, whose "November Hills” now 
in the Permanent Collection was 
awarded the third medal in 1909, like 
Carl sen, comes to Pittsburgh for the 
first time. Charles II. Davis has al­
ready served eight times on the jury 
and is represented in the Permanent 
Collection. Charles Hawthorne, Ed­
ward W. Redfleld, W. L. Lathrop, 
Gardner Symons, and Edmund C. Tar- 
bell have served on previous juries. 
Under an established rule the Direc­
tor is President of the Jury.
During twenty years eminent paint­
ers from Europe and America have as­
sembled annually to judge the paint­
ings and make awards. These annual 
visits have always been of the very 
highest artistic and social interest, 
since they have brought together very 
distinguished men.
Among the famous men who have 
visited Pittsburgh on these occasions 
it will be recalled that Winslow Hom­
er was here as a member of the first 
jury and again in 1901. Other distin­
guished painters who have served as 
jurors are Sir Alfred East, John Henry 
Twachtman, John W. Alexander, Wil­
liam M. Chase, Frank Duveneck, Al­
bert Neuhuys, John Swan, J. Alden 
Weir, Thomas Eakins, and Fritz Thau- 
low.
The jury will meet in Pittsburgh on 
April 8 to select the paintings and 
award the honors. A gold medal, a 
silver medal, and a bronze medal, 
carrying with them, respectively prizes 
of fifteen hundred, one thousand, and 
five hundred dollars, will be awarded.
WINNERS OF POVERTY 
DAY CONTEST ANNOUNCED
The winners of the "Poverty Day” 
contest were announced last week. 
They are Mr. Talbott, Brussell, Bus- 
ser, Foster, Gussard, Bowman, Moore 
and Johnson. You should have seen 
the smiles on their faces when they 
read the notice on the bulletin board. 
Wonder if they will wear silk foot 
wear in spite of the resistance of II 
C. L„ for they are excused from Plebe 
regulations for the rest of their life 
on this earth planet.
How about having a Poverty day in 
the other schools? It proved to be a 
success in Science school.
TENNIS TEAM CONFIDENT 
OF SUCCESSFUL SEASON
Nevor in Tech’s history have things 
looked so bright and promising for a 
successful season In tennis. Nothing 
less than the tri-state championship 
will satisfy us, and from the calibre 
of the players, and the Intense Inter­
est shown, our goal will bo reached.
With such men as Capt. Stockslagor, 
Beatty, Copley, *‘Toot|s” Davis and 
Harkness, all loiter men, as a nucleus, 
Colonel Brooks will be able to build 
up the best team that ever represented 
Tech, and he will be aldod by other 
men who ability has been proven bo 
fore. Phil Marshall will bo out, as 
well as Simpson, a Science Plobo from 
Alabama, who, from al lreports, is an 
experienced and able player.
Our manager, Mr. f-Ilrsch, has boon 
very busy arranging a suitable sched­
ule, which will be given out later. Ho 
promlsos that the representative 
teams In the Idstrlct will have the 
chance to bow before Tech’s prowoss..
Practice was called for the first 
Lime last Saturday morning In the 
gym, and the largest crwd of candl 
dates over seen at Tech was out. 
Practice in serving will bo hold regu­
larly In the gym, until the weather 
permits outdoor practice.
The players are not the only one 
who have shown a keen Interest for 
tennis either. I^ast week a call was 
made for asst, managership candi­
dates, and Mgrfl I-lirsch was pleasant­
ly surprised by about twenty men, all 
eager to help Tech win out at tennis. 
This speaks well for the sport, espe­
cially In years to come, when some of 
these men, then experienced, will 
again lead successful tennis teams.
CARNEGIE BAND GIVES
CONCERT AI MAYVIEW
The Carnegie Tech Band, playinft 
their first concert of the season found 
an admiring and appreciative audience 
at Mayview last Tuesday nlglit.
The name Mayview may sound fa­
miliar, but it is very deceptive. What 
Ixmg Branch is to New York’s musi­
cal comedies, Mayview is to Carnegie 
Tech musical organizations. No re­
flections however on Long Branch. 
M»ayvlew is an all-year resort kept up 
by the State for the benefit of past 
genii and despairing Tech students.
The feature of the trip, that is, the 
most appealing number to the mem­
bers of the band was the supper, 
which, incidentally, worked wonders 
on Vick O’Brien, the director. After 
the concert the wliote-smocked lassies 
insisted on a dance, so "Pete” Kend­
rick, who hadn’t found his blonde and 
"Jimmie,” once a noted pianist, com­
bined their talents to supply rythme 
for the supple dancing crew. Tills, 
however, did not last long, for the 
faculty still Include R's and F’s In 
their grading system, so Mayview was 
bid farewell until next year.
As it happened the train was with­
out a sleeper, so Carnegie Tech still 
stands high in the opinion of the trav­
elling public. Woodlawn dormitories, 
including the men’s dorms, however, 
appreciated the aftermath of the con­
cert, which consisted of "Dear Old 
Tech” and the sobbings of Pete’s 
swab-stock.
Well, the homo concert Is over—as 
far as the boys’ musical clubs are 
concerned, but the B-I-G homo concert 
of the year is yot to come.
The night of April lGtli Is the night 
that the gorls’ musical clubs hold 
their first home concert and dnnco. 
The concert Is to bo hold In the "Lit­
tle Theater” and the dance In the 
foyer of the Arts Building. The con­
cert will bo full of “pop” and many 
surprises, so don’t lot one real Tochlto 
miss It. As for the dance, undoubt­
edly th ejazzlest orchestra In Pitts­
burgh lias boon procured so It matters 
not whether you go to conoort or 
dance—a good time Is assured. So 
don't miss it. See that girl before It 
Is too lato. ‘Everyone on the campus 
out that night!
FROLIC OF THE LABORER 
TO HAVE GOOD MUSIC
The Avo and Graph lea Clubs are go 
ing to hold a big dance April 9, 11)20. 
That Is the first Friday after Master 
vacation. You’ll fool like dancing 
about that time, so arrange now to bfa 
there.
The music will bo the best this 
year. Wo have •secured “Magglo," 
himself. Ho has promised ono of tho 
best programs. Tho orchestra will be 
placed so as to got tho full benefit of 
its music. Along with this, there will 
be several special dances.
Tho decorations will bo suitable to 
tho surroundings of a laborer. It 1ft 
positively guaranteed that saws, ham 
mers, tools or any implomonts boautl- 
fylng the union will bo perfectly safe.
When the whistle blows ut mid 
night everyone will "quit." After oat 
Ing a workingman’s lunch, tho part} 
will start up at the blast of tho wills 
tie. The entire program will bo made 
up as a burlesque on labor.
An added attraction will be the 
punch. On the Q. T„ "There’s going 
to be some ‘stick’ in It”—Be there | 
yourself, tell your friends about it and 
have them there too.
Dont. forget—In the Union, April 9, | 
1920. And were going to dance until 
2 o’clock. The entire school is wel­
come.
THIRTEEN IS LUCKY NUMBER
Our Scientific Chemicals claim that 
the best day to have a good time is 
on the thirteenth day of the month. 
With the aid of Olie Riehl’s five-piece 
orchestra, they held their dance at the 
Union on the night of the thirteenth.
That which used to be does not ex­
ist today, for that dance was certainly 
a success by all means. The attend­
ance was exceedingly good, and since 
the orchestra was situated -at the cen­
ter of the floor, the lively notes reach­
ed everybody simultaneously, this 
keeping everybody In step. There 
were 17 dances given and two rjQOclal 
m o-o-n-llght dances. The patron and 
patronesses were dean and Mrs, 
James, Prof. and Mrs. Steves, Prof. 
and Mrs. Griffin, Mr. Hashy, Mr, HInc­
line and Mr. and Mrs. VIorhollor.
The successful commlttoo that con­
tested the ill omened number are: T. 
M. Felton, chairman; K. N. ZItsman, 
M. Arron, and J. B. Zimmerman. Good 
work, Junior Chemicals.
they lire ready to book the team for all that it needs.
Manager Dreux is busy selecting 
suits, buying material ami booking 
games. Some suits have been ordered 
but in ail probability they will not be 
in on time, due to the present con, 
gestion of spring buying of sporting 
material and every man who antici­
pates coming out is urged to send 
home for his outfit, however don’t let 
tiie matter of not owning a suit stop you from comlug out.
Irwin, formerly of W. & J., is out 
for catcher, and Moon, from Grove 
City, Is out for a job on the mound. 
Of the old men tile following have 
reported for practice: Capt. Lynn, 
Work, McCaw, Weiss, Qoddon, Mauor, 
Abrams, Oakley, Good and Durkin.
M. «1.0. BASKETBALL ~ ELIMINATION SERIES 
SOPBS AND SENIORS
The first of tho basketball elimina­
tion series was played off Tuesday be­
tween tho Sophs and Plobos. Tho 
game was ono of tho best soon fo. 
a good many years at M. M„ but the 
Sophs fought a littlo hotter than tho 
Plobos and won to tho tuno of 15 to 9. 
The t Plobos put up a good game, but 
tho superior teamwork of tho Sophs 
gave thorn tho victory. Most of tho 
scoring was dono in tho first half, 
Miss MoCrum, tho Plobo forward mak­
ing STU of tho Plobo's nine points. 
Miss Held and Mias Littlo shared hon­
ors oquall yin the Soph’s scoring.
Tho playing of Miss Snydor, the 
Plobo center, entitled her to tho Plobo 
honors, whilo Miss Hold and Miss Lit­
tle starred for tho Sophs. Tho ilno- up:
Sophomore Plobo
u. itold .................F....... (l Forsythe
M. Littlo . .............F..,., H. MacCrum
winner................C............... It. Snyder
M' Smith ..........8.0.... 10. Hodklnson
i’Jakln ..............(1............. p. Obonaur
l-l. Prist...........U,............. ft\ Donton
Substitutions—A. Sohloifor for P. Denton.
The second of tilt) basketball ollmln 
al Ion games was played oil Thursday 
March II. Tho game went lo the Se­
niors by a score or 25 lo II), after an 
exciting struggle, Tho first half was 
featured principally by foul shooting 
both teams offending tlmo after time. 
Tho half ended with tho score 15 to 7 
In %vor of tho Seniors. Tho second 
half produced a much better brand of 
basketball, especially by tho Juniors, 
They wore unable, however, to oqual 
the wonderful shooting of tho two So­il lor forwards.
The game was a very well fought 
one, especially 111 tho region of sldo 
center, where there was considerable 
disturbance whenever tho ball llglitod 
there. Miss Zarobslcy and Mias 
Schmucker starred for tho Juniors, 
Miss O'Connor, Miss Batchellor and 
Miss Bechtel for the Seniors. The line-up:
SENIORS'— 25 JUNIORS—19
M. Batchellor----P...........M. Zarobsky
M. Bechtel ............P... V. Schmucker
(Capt.)H. Stone ...............C...............A. Gumbert
A. O'Connor ----S.C.... M. Alexander(Capt.)
B. Endrea............G............... G. Sloppy
I. Friedman ........G___  M. Spencer
Substitutions—B. Sheppard for I.
Friedman. Referee — Miss Spurrier. 
Umpire—Miss Patton.
SCIENCE PLEBE DANCE 
1ST SUCCESSFUL AFFAIR
The Science Plebes practiced danc 
ing on Thursday night at the Union. 
This was their annual first and last 
Plebe dane an dthey therefore, decld 
ed to make a good Job of it. They 
did. Due to the committee’s hard 
work the results obtained were vor} 
good. All the black necktie wearer of 
science school turned out and that was 
enough to make It a success, besides 
the other by-product features which 
took place.
The patron and patronesses woro 
Mr. and Mrs. William Hazel and Mr. 
and Mrs, William Dosoy. The active 
committee consisted of Mr. Emory, 
chairman; McDonald, Grden and Bry­
son . The Plebes have dono good work 
during the past year an dthey are still 
iooking ahead.

---------------------------------------------------

AKRON
AMSTERDAM
CLEVELAND
MILWAUKEE
READING
PITTSBURGH 
(3 atoros) 
ROCHESTER 
SCHENECTADY 
SYRACUSE
SCRANTON 
TRENTON 
TERRA HAUTE 
WILKES-BARRE 
YOUNGSTOWN
PAGE TWO.THE TARTAN.WEDNESDAY, MARCH 17, 1920.
ÜUj? (Harían
• Published every week by undergruduuteH of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Activities Board.
Entered in the postoffice of Pittsburgh ar second-class matter.
Thii year *1.60
SUBSCRIPTION KATES 
6c the copyCanuda, $1.76
Editor-in-Chicf..................................................................................JLcRoy E. Kmcrich
Phone Hazel 9422
BasincM Manager ..............................................................................T. W. Alla worthPhone Hazel 9426.
EDITORIAL 
Managing Editor 
L. K. Paquin
Assistant Managing Editors 
F. I. Smith 
C. L. Lake 
News Editor 
J. T. Ames 
Associate News Hklitor 
W. D. Hall 
Athletic Editor
G. It. Goodrich
Assistant Athlctic Editor« 
Fred L. Knowles 
S. P. Smith 
Circulation Manager
H. G. Atchley
School Editors
M. M. C. S............Margaret J. Griffen
Science...................J. K. W. Macalpine
Industrie«..........................J. R. Rudisill
Arts..................................T. It. Hinckley
Other Assistant«
L. A. McCardell 
Arthur Lubin 
Gertrude Baton 
Margaret Stolzenbaugh 
Adele Gumbert 
Olgu Kiefer 
Ralph Shunno J. M. Zehent I. T. Siasman
BUSINESS STAFF 
D. A. Sillers 
N. E. Fox 
Wm. Obenour 
Advertising Manager 
M. I. Cohen
TARTAN OFFICE.........................................................................Room 162, Design
Hours—1:00 to 4:00 Wednesdays.
12:00 to 1:00 Thursdays.
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the Man­
aging Editor for the make up.
All business communications should be sent to the Business Manager. 
Any delay in delivery of this paper 0r change of address should be reported 
at once.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
the signature to be withheld if desired.
All news items must be in the student postoffice, Central Building, before 
4:30 P. M. Fridays.
DISTRUST?
The subject of "Spirit” has been commented upon so many times editori­
ally thiit the writer Is in great doubt as to tho extent to which the editorials 
are read. Still, the prevalent spirit oL' the year ol' grumbling and knorking 
exists and which adds to our disadvantages. Severe criticism llias resulted in 
leaving this everlasting spirit destructive to our best interests. Can the sit­
uation bo analyzed?
An immediate causo is probably an existence of distruct between faeulLy 
and students and likewise between (’acuity and administration. The students 
are leary about the now system ol! grading and would also like more definite 
information on just how the registration is to be reduced next year. As a
consequence, here Is the first source ol! knocking. The faculty takes their
turn in knocking the decidedly poor efforts of the student and alternately lilts 
tho administration. Tho outcome Is destructive criticism rather than con­
structivo wililch Js the type more advantageous to our expanding institution 
• nowl in a critical time of reconstruction.
Is there any reason for placlng'a distrust In the administration? The
Students possos a continual fear that this body is trying to "put something 
over on them” and which Is also probably an ultimate cause ol! the faculty’s 
distruct. Does evidence point in this direction? Decidedly so. Now and 
then a rumor leaks out as to a chango In policy. The administration neither
i, generally for one of a more unlagon- 
to complete their plans and some- 
In policy whether or not It confirms
dentea noi* conllrins tho rumor clmng< 
Istic naturo—tho adminstratlon 
timos as a finis publlshes tholr 
thè rumor.
Tho Injurlos lo a common good 
ave woll recognlzod. Is (bore any 
siblo way 1» by a Menerai 
studenti). 11. (1 lmposslble 
aro dolng? Suoli L1O definite action 
as an officiai organ woluomon suoli 
band, lf Ilio ntudents bave 
to reason. Whilo t'hoso Internai 
thè ntudontu exlsl, Ih lt ponslble fluii, e
Kind grumblln'g 
only jios- 
faculty and 
what they
injurious rumors. The Tartan 
of common Interest. On the other
Is only human and will listen
of undercurrents of dlssont among 
voryono Is putting their shoulder to the 
wheel to get the wagon out of the mud Striving for the best Tech? No, 
cultivate co-operation, if this will not remedy conditions a change In policy 
and administration will.
THOSE SCIENCE A88EMDLIE8
In the midst of our clamor for a broader education and the effort of the 
faculty to secure the name for tho students, tho science men are prone to for­
got ono of tlio most Important factors that of meeting a ml hearing export 
onood men as woll as that ol’ associating with their own schoolmates. .
The period set aside for general assembly was Intended to take care of 
tills factor undoubtedly. However, since .Innunry llrst tho Science Assemblies 
havo boon a decided failure. The fact remains that last week twonty-ilvo 
were In attendance. Is such an encouragement for a speaker or can arrange­
ments bo iniado for oven securing a speaker for such a largo appreciative 
audience? Can tho Science Senate transact business under such conditions
or oven lot tho students know what they are doing?
The success of tho Industries Assemblies is undoubted and in disgust we 
would refer the Science Students as an example. If conditions do not become 
better soon, tho proper suggestion is that assembly be made a requisite, so 
that every niton must attend. The students now are taking an unfair ad­
vantage on themselves, the faculty an dthe Senate. Another instance of lack 
of consideration.
THE STAFF MEETING
A staff meeting has been called for Wednesday at one o’clock. The last 
few meetings have been failures—our loyal members think these meetings 
are not beneficial.The warning is issued that Wednesday will decide the fate of many 
staff members who evidently are too indifferent to attend the meetings. 
There are plans for extension in this activity and it is important for every 
man to be there—business and editorial both.
FOOD FOR THOUGHT
"Jazz fever’’ is our most popular activity at present.
We growl about the Beanery—then pay over-prices at. Skibo Inn for lunch. 
Who changed the tune of Alma Mater to “Annie Laurie”?
The majority didn’t, like the Home Concert because there was not enough 
"Jazz.” Where w6ro t.hoso who appreciate good musio? A dose of "pep” 
would do no harm.
The suggestion is made that, the Y. M. O. A. will be supported better if a 
"Jazz band" is procured for tho meetings.
REGISTRATION OF STUDENTS
The Register of Students for tho year :1!U1M920, containing the name, 
class, Division, course, home (own and Pittsburgh address of every student 
In the Institute, Is now ready for distribution. Copies may be obtained at. the 
office of the Registrar.
ALAN BRIGHT, Registrar.
OFFICIAL ANNOUNCEMENT
Superintendent George W. Burke of the City Parks has written President 
Hamersclilag asking that the student practice of milling notices to tho trees 
,in Sclienley Park be discontinued. The trees referred to are between the 
bridge and the Industries Building, and are in serious danger of being per­
manently injured.
I am, in turn, asking all student organizations to honor this request. We
owe Mr. Burke all the co-operation we can give him, as he is constantly doing 
things in our behalf. I refer especially to the palms and plants which he 
furnishes as decorations, without expense, for so many student occasions.
DEAN TRBELL.
CALENDAR OF STUDENT EVENTSMarch 18—Insurance Party .................................................................................Union
March 19—Building Construction Dance ..........................................................Union
March 39—"Admirable Bashville," 4 p. in...........................................Little Theater
March 19 and 20—Ibsen’s "John Gabriel Bjorkrnan” ...................Little Theater
April 9—Avo Club Dance..........................................................................................Union
April 10—M. M. D. Musical Club Home Concert................................Little Theater
May 13, 14, 16—Campus Week .........................................................................Campus
ECHOE8 OF THE INFIRMARY
"THE FLU"
Where have I heard that word be 
lore—
The sign that’s tacked on every door— 
The flu?
It seems to haunt me day and night, 
f’111 i Just almost want to fight 
The flu.
Oh yes, now 1 remember well,
The day that I a victim fell,
To flu.
I think I never shall forget—
I hear that awful sentence yet—
You have the flu.
Why 1 was going then to Tech,
Ami that’s an awful place, by Heck, 
To get the flu.
The flu—
The doctor said, now don’t you know, 
There’s really just one place to go 
With Ilu?
The hospital Is near at hand,
The staff the best in all the land 
For ilu.
To the hospital I went, and then 
Well i’d just take a chance again 
With flu.
The whole darn staff just tried to 
please
Including Misses Smith and Lees 
They watched you till you daren’t 
sneeze
With flu.
No, I was not alone, ’tls true,
For Corrigan and Catlow too,
Had flu.
But bye and bye the worst was o'er, 
Wo knew we would not be bothered 
more,
Nor have to dodge from door to door, 
The flu.
And now and then we had a chat,
So it was not so bad at that,
(Tho flu)
With friend nurse Smith and also Lees 
Who worked as busily as bees,
Trying to master the disease,
Tho Ilu.
I be treatment there could not be beat, 
And soon we all reached the stage to 
"eat"
With flu.
We thot with hunger we would die,
So ono day acting on tho sly,
We up stole nurses lemon pie 
And flew
The pie was good but you can guess 
What nurses thot of us was less 
Than flu.
Now, all our worldy wealth we’d pawn 
In their good graces to be drawn,
But what’B amiss—we’ll blame it on 
The flu.
The flu—
Some day it they’ll allow us, we 
Are going to let those nurses see 
That flu
Made us to worship at their shrine; 
We’d like to take them out to dine, 
And serve not Lemon Pie but WINE.
—JOHN RUSEN. 
(an ex-inmate)
A prize was affered the most well 
behaved inmate of the Infirmary. 
"Shorty Maurer” being the lucky per­
son drew the prize, to which he dedi­
cates the following:
Some people work for glory,
Some people work for cash 
But I worked hard all day
For this little piece of --------
Some pie.
The baker starts his daily grind 
Amid the early dawn,
While on the table here I find 
This little thing I cannot pawn,
Some pie.
To you, O crust, to you I cry,
you hold this pie together
But in my mouth, between my teetli
I find you are like leather,
Some pie.
The pie Itself lets not neglect,
It’s purpose is well known,
But Lord have mercy on the one,
Who wrote this awful poem.
Some pie.
"HOT DOG."
M. M. D. SCHOOL NOTES
On Friday afternoon the freshmen 
cooking classes entertained at tea for 
tiie Junior class. Jonquils were useld 
as decorations and dainty refresh­
ments consisting of fancy sandwichep, 
small cakes, nuts and tea were served.
The girls who are at present in the 
practice hause entertained the l'acuty 
at tea Sunday afternoon.
Woodlawn dorm had a house dancb. 
Saturday night. Maggio furnished the 
music so everyone enjoyed the dance| 
W. J. GRIFFIN.
w
Smart Spring Suits 
for Young Men 
are Ready!
The new models are particularly handsome and 
¿tylish—both single and double breasted!
Serviceable, all-wool fabrics, and patterns which 
are unusually nobby!
Our chain-^tore system affords saving of from $5 
to $10. Satisfaction guaranteed.
$30 *35 $40
“Ultra-Class” Suits, $45 and $50
302-304 State Street
The Joy of Winter Swimming.
The exercise derived from swimming has not only the endorsement of our leading social workers but our most eminent physicians as well. Moat people indulge in swimming "in the good old summer time” but the fact remains that the body needs the exercise derived more in winter than in the summer, when it is possible to :get outdoors in the open and avoid the evils that come from a "pent-up” life. The last person to fall ill from colds, coughs and the more serious winter ailments is the habitual winter swimmer, whose flesh becomes hardened and is thus able to resist severe weather. There's a lot of joy, vigor and wholosome exercise to be derived by swimming that can be had in no other way. The Pittsburg hNatotor- ium Pool is open all winter.
TUESDAY AND THURSDAY POOL IS FOR LADIES ONLY.
PATRONIZE THE TARTAN ADVERTISERS.
All the world
loves a lover —
And all discriminating 
lovers of cigarettes love 
Murads—
Because Murads are pure Turk­
ish, the world's most famous tobacco 
for cigarettes.
And the Fame of Murads grows 
and grows and grows—they are 1 00 
per cent Turkish, and they are 100 
per cent popular with connoisseurs 
everywhere.
It is true that "ordinary 
cigarettes cost a trifle less.
Judge for yourself— /
tj/niri^uïûj 
ujid Kijíjjb/wt ÙÿMiüsmiJuïïbril

---------------------------------------------------

OUTLINE OF 
HYTEMP CONVEYOR BELT
STANDARD PORTLAND CEMENT CO.
LEEDS, A LA.
LOADING
HOPPER
TOTAL LENGTH 72-2"
HEAD PULLEY 20"* ¡G’TAJ.L^PULLEY 16"* l8J*. 
6'TROUGHING IDLERS UNEQUALLY SPACED 
TOP COVER '/o' PULLEY SIDE Vib" 
CRESCENT FASTENERS USED 
F.P.M. 196,3 TP.H. 6U PEMP 2qb°-6GO® 
MATERIAL DELIVERED'30“FROM FAIL 
POWER DELIVERED AT HEAD PULLEY, 
LUMPS VARY IN SIZE FROM 5" 
ANGLE OF INCLINATION 12°,
Specified GOODYEAR HYTEMP 
CONVEYOR BELT 16" 5 PLY.
WEDNESDAY MARCH 17, 1920.THE TARTAN.PAGE THREE.
EDUCATION AND WORLD
CHANGES TO BE TOPIC
At the TheatresSpeakers Named for Convention of
Association to Be Held This Week
“Education and the Changing 
World" will be the theme at three 
general sessions ol‘ the seventeenth 
annual national convention of the Re 
ligious Education Association which 
opens in Pittsburgh Friday.* SeSsious 
will be held in the Schenley Hotel 
Friday and Saturday nights and in the 
Carnegie Music Hall Sunday night. 
Headquarters Lor the convention will 
bo opened in the Schenley today by 
Dr. llenry Frederick Cope, Chicago, 
general secretary of the association.
Musical numbers will be given 
under* the direction of Charles N. 
Boyd lof the Pittsburgh Musical Inst- 
lute, chairman of the music commit­
tee. Dr. Arthur C. McGiffert, New 
York, president, will deliver the presi­
dent's address at the Friday night ses­
sion, taking as his subject, "The 
Church in the New Day," and Dean 
Frederick James Eugene Woodbridge, 
Columbia University, 011 "The State 
in the New Day.”
United States Commissioner P. lj. 
Claxton of the Department of Educa­
tion will speak 011 “The Public School 
in the New Day,” and the Rev. Ralph 
Eugene Diffonderfer of the Inter- 
Church World ¡Movement on "The 
Church School in the New Day” at 
the Saturday night session. Sunday 
night’s speakers will be the Rev. Dr. 
Robert A. Hume, India, on '‘Foreign 
Missions in the New Day,’' and Presi­
dent R. Bruce Taylor, Queen’s Uni­
versity, 011 "Religion in the Now Day.”
A conference of religious workers 
will be held Thursday morning.
At a special session Saturday after­
noon Dean Caroline B. Dow of the na­
tional Y. W. C. A. training school and 
Prof. Ruby Neville of the Illinois. 
'Women’s College will speak.
PENN AND FP * ’'IKSTOWN 
AVENUES
DAVIS THEATRE.
What is perhaps the most unusual 
announcement that has ever -come 
from the vaudeville theaters is (found 
in the press copy from the Davis The­
ater this week, which tells of the 
engagement of Helen Keller, the most 
talked about woman in the world, who 
is to appear in person in the program 
of nine Keith acts every afternoon 
and evening for one week, beginning 
Monday matinee, March 212. Miss 
Keller is the celebrated blind ana 
deaf girl, who formerly was mute but 
now talks. She will be assisted by 
Anne Sullivan Macy, her lifelong and 
devoted teacher, in a remarkable por­
trayal of the triumph of Miss Kel­
ler's life over the greatest obstacles 
that ever confronted a human being 
"The sweetest love story ever told" 
is the title of Miss Keller’s enter­
tainment. which has aroused the keen­
est interest and greatest enthusiasm 
among New York theatergoers, for 
.Miss Keller opened her first vaude­
ville tour at the Palace Theater ill 
the metropolis two weeks ago.
Among the eight other acts that 
Miss Keller’s week, none will elicit 
will comprise the program during 
greater interest than Nonette, the 
charming Gypsy girl, violiniste and 
songstress. With Jerry Jarnigan ai 
the piano, Nonette, 011 a beautifullj 
adorned stage, will render a repertoire 
of songs and instrumental selections. 
Elida Morris, formerly of the Pass­
ing Show, will sing a group of char, 
acter comedy songs and give imper­
sonations. The Quixey Four will 
entertain with enlivening ditties 
Charles Wilson, known slangily ak1 
"the loose nut," will patter in a non­
sensical vein. The four other acts 
in the program will measure up to the 
usual Keith standard and will bo sup­
plemented by a selection of news mo­
tion pictures.
$8.50 to $15.60
CUT DOWN YOUR SHOE EXPENSE by buying better shoes. You will find them far cheaper to woar than shoes which are not so high in quality.
Our new models for FALL and WINTER are now Inv'and they are full of snap—Just' suitable for the college man.
Copyright 1920. by Tlio Goodyear Tiro & Rubbor Co.. Akron, 0.
Hot Clinker, a Conveyor—and the G.T. M,
Hot cement clinkers, 200° and over, to be 
carried from open storage to the grinding 
mills, were the crux of the conveying 
problem put up by the plant superintendent 
to the G. T. M.
The G. T. M.—Goodyear Technical Man—
gave that situation expert study embracing 
every process in cement manufacture at the 
plant of the Standard Portland Cement Co.,
Leeds, Ala. He realized that here was an 
unusual problem. The clinker could not be 
cooled sufficiently in the processes previous 
to conveying. The best thing to do would 
be to provide some means of cooling it as it 
came onto the belt.
So he made two recommendations: a heat- 
resistant GoodyearHy-Temp Conveyor Belt, 
known to be capable of withstanding as 
much as 200°; and a cooling vat through 
which the belt might run as it struck the tail 
pulley, and come up dripping with a film of 
cold water that would cool the clinker drop­
ping from the hopper. Both recommenda­
tions were approved.
Up to September 1, 1919—after six months 
of operation—this Goodyear Hy-Temp Con­
veyor had carried 61,000 tons of clinker,
irn VOOL.nXI iNIn o 2a((nI 3OStXu.
Offices Throughout the World
The Standard Portland Cement Co. credits 
a saving of $300 in belt cost alone to this 
Goodyear Conveyor. Besides, it has effected 
a high operating economy. A letter from 
them states that they are “so pleased with 
its performance that we have ordered a 
duplicate for replacement, although from 
present appearances this belt will continue 
to give good service for some time.”
Wherever heats up to 200° are registered
on conveying jobs, in mines, in coking plants, 
in cement factories, Goodyear Hy-Temp 
Conveyor’s special construction sets up new 
records in heat-resistance, ability to with­
stand abrasion, and quantity of tonnage 
delivered.
Working with your own plant superintend­
ent, the G. T. M. can make an analysis that 
assures intelligent specification of the belt to 
the duty required. The G. T. ML’s services 
are yours without charge or obligation. If 
his suggestions and the Goodyear Belt he 
recommends prove as valuable in your service 
as in the instance cited here, and in hundreds 
of similar cases the country over, our return 
will be amply guaranteed by your satis­
faction.
¦•II Phonos 87« A. 9169 8ohanl«y 
P. A A. 1092-R 
229 ATWOOD 8TREET 
PITT8BURQH, PA. 
Household Qoods Movod, Stored, 
Paokod and Shlppod.
APPLAUSE
’ Appkiuso 'Is1 often insincol’o, its real 
purpose lroquently forgotten, and It 
thus loses most of its value when em­
ployed legitimately. This one conven­
tional means of expressing our ap­
proval Is thoughtlessly abused whoti 
used lor other purposes or-from-other 
motives than those which It was d& 
signed to express.
Is applause merely the' result of tlio 
common feeling of ecstacy, a conta­
gion which spreads over the congrega­
tion? Intelligence Is immune to such 
an appeal of emotional I’oi vur, yoi we 
seem readily moved, resign our Indi­
vidual Inclinations, and allow tlic- 
mind of tho audience to guide our 
dec la Iona*, m Applause in'Vuicte olmlfli- 
Htaincoa Is Bpontaneous.i but Worthies”; 
the handclapplng'loses Its real -mean­
ing, and become unorely a refined 
sort, of "Amen, brother!"
However, there Is another sort of 
abuse far more despicable than this: 
that al'foelallon of approval which Is 
based merely 011 a cowardly desire not 
to show a lack of understanding. This 
Insincere 1 applauSe Is us unfortunate 
in l'osult as it Is1 unworthy <in motive. 
It gives an entertainer-1«, wrong ostl- 
mato of bln audience, for I10 oan re­
gard only the approbation which la 
uttered, not that which Is felt. And 
more Important, when really alncoro 
appreciation Is expressed, there la 110 
more significance In It than lit the un­
real.
It aeoins hotter to risk a display of 
provinciality, and remain sincere, than 
to lower the standard oiy applause; 
’ballon to oxoVt the alight mental* effort 
that,'Will keep lis clear of tho common 
emotional maelstrom, than to have 
tho entertainer direct his appeal to­
ward an unworthy object. Wo must 
bear In mind that the value of ap­
plause depends upon tho way In which 
it is employed.—Tho Michigan Dally.
SKIBO INN
EATS
Cigars and Candy
GRAND THEATRE
Te latest Nazimova production, 
"Stronger Than Death,” an Oriental 
tale of intricate design and fasci­
nating drama, will be the principal 
attraction at Pittsburgh’s New Million 
Dollar Grand all next week, starting 
Monday, March 22. The picture has 
boon adapted by Charles Bryant from 
L. A. Wylie’s novel, "The Hermit Doc­
tor of G-aya,” and has been built with 
the usual Nazimova lavlshnesa and an 
exceptional understanding of the 
things that, appeal to a photoplay 
audience. The brilliant Russian star 
is shown in a role that aplondlclly' 
displays her almost uncanny powori 
as a mistress of tho human emotions. 
Stirring drama at all times illumines 
the narrative, making it 0110 of those 
stories that gets a strong hold upon 
the spectator.
Besides writing the scenario, Mr. 
Bryant, who is tho husband of tho 
star, assisted Herbert Blache In tho 
direct ion. Great effort was expended 
in presenting settings that would 
combine the romance of tho Orient 
with artistic perfection. Tho scenes 
claim tho attention, bosidos being 
exact reproductions of just such 
places as India has. The costuming 
is also faithful to fact, showing the 
odd unconventioiwillty that character­
izes the Hindu garb. Tho..film runs 
¦seven 'reels. Supporting the star are 
Mr. Bryant, Charles W. French, Mar­
garet McWade, Herbert Prior, W. H. 
Orlamond, Millie Davenport, Bhogwan 
Singh and Henry Harmon.
Additional to "Stronger Than 
Death,” will bo a Fox Sunshine com­
edy, "Her Naughty Wink;” tho Grand 
News Weekly and the “Topics of the 
Day.” 'The symphony orchestra, di­
rected by David Broudy, will play a 
special number in addition to a 'care­
fully arranged score with1 the pictures. 
Both orchestra and pipe-organ wilt be 
all-day features. Performances will 
be continuous from 10 a. m. till 11
Boll—Sohonloy ODD
MISS O’LEARY
(Koriimrly with J. 10. T. Shuman) 
DHY CLEANING— ItEPAIUINO 
1 Ltwlion' mid" Moli'u Olothim, OurpoU
Work (liiimintoint mid Turnitil Out on Hhttrt Notloo.
Will cull tor 'ikll pronnlnic Mid /olnmilng 11 tv Fra t Homo».
3030 F011HE9 STItEET (Oakland) 
riTTSBtntOH, PA.
\ NEAREST.‘TO TECH
! Cor. Craig and Forbefc
[ FRED FARGEL, Proprietor)
' Nearest and Best Laundry ^
' Agency.
WWWMHWVflHiiWiaHIili
THE PLACE WHERE ¡j
STUDENTS I
TAKE THEIR SHOES j
Bellefield 
Shoe Repairing Co.
Across from the Library \
SIR OLIVER LODGE TO SPEAK 
IN -OARNEGIE HALL MARCHie/acJ/eJ/a/a/a^/e/f5/a/5ia/e/e/a/p/a/e^je/e/aH TRAN3IT8 AND LEVEL8,fl ALL SUPPLIE8 FOR THEDRAFTING ROOMS1V Oliver Lodge will lecture In Car­
negie Music 'Hall' Monday evening, 
March 22, 011 "The Evidence for Sur­
vival.” He will give an impressive 
account of the experiences that con­
verted him from a scientific agnostic 
into a firm believer in the existence 
of the spirit world.
1 ' When Sir Oliveridelivered his lec- 
turd, "‘The Reality'Of the Unseen,” in 
Pittsburgh a lew weeks ago, It was 
criticised in some quarters because li 
did not go sufficiently into the ques­
tion of spirit phenomena. This lec­
ture, however, was intended to be 
merely an introduction to the forth­
coming lecture, in. which’ Sir OllvQr 
will give concrete evidence for sur­
vival and deal with spirit messages, 
inediums, apparitions and other 
phases of the supernatural.
WAR DEGREE AT CORNELL
Students Who Served in American 
Forces Will Be' “War Alumni”
Cornell University will confer the 
degree of war alumnus on each under­
graduate who left the university when 
in good standing to enter the mili­
tary service of the United States dur­
ing the World War.
With the -view to recognizing the 
work of the students while in Cor­
nell and with the. hope that the war 
degree* will compensate to1 some ex^ 
tent for the loss of the usual gradua­
tion with baccalaureate honors, the 
Faculty of Cornell University have de­
cided to make each student who left 
for war service a member of the 
class in which he would have gradu­
ated and to grant him full alumni 
privileges.
The decision was made in this form 
so that it will be plain that there has 
been no lowering of academic stan­
dards In recognizing the satisfactory 
completion, of work and the patriotism 
of Cornell's soldiers and sailors.
Engineers' Equipment, Instru­ments of Precision, Blue Prlrt and Brown Print Papers and Cloths.
B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
126 8IXTH 8TREET
¦TRADE'.MARK!
A
MERICA is fast becoming a pipe smoking country. Every 
- year more and more men are realizing the comfort, the satis­
faction, and the economy of the pipe. And by natural selection, 
more and more men are smoking W D C Pipes. This is not 
chance. It is because W D C Pipes offer the utmost in pipe value. 
Honest French briar, seasoned by our own special process make 
WDC Pipes break in sweet and mellow. Coupled with that is a 
self-governed body of pipe makers whose sole object is to fashion 
pipes which are without peers in all the world. And it has been 
accomplished. Ask any good dealer.
THE 
NEW PEKIN
PITT AVIATORS PLANNING 
TO FLY IN COLLEGE AIR RACE
AL 3 o'clock this afternoon former 
aviators who are now students or 
members of the faculty of the Uni­
versity of Pittsburgh will meet at the 
Lambda Chi Alpha Fraternity House, 
3501 Terrace street, to complete plans 
for the entrance of tho university in 
the collegiate air race from Nov/ York 
to Boston and return, which will take 
place this spring.
Almost all of the large colleges of 
the East are entered in this race, and, 
as tho local university has a very 
largo number of former aviators It Ik 
felt that Pitt should be represented. 
The Pitt Aero Club, formed last year, 
Is headed by Louis Dussoro of Erie, 
Pa. ,a Junior in the School of Eco­
nomics.
AMERICAN AND CHINESE 
RESTAURANT
SPECIAL DINNER SERVED
11 to 2 and 5 to 8
Music at Lunch and Dinner(Continued on Page Four, Col. Two) 
With nervourt fingers ,the reader 
turned to Page 4, Column 2, prepared 
lor the worst, .and there 'picked up 
the thread of the story:
(Continued from Page One)
Wm. DEMUTH de CO., NEW YORK
WORLDS LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE .RI P E.2EXCELLENT MEALS
AT REASONABLE PRICES
TO STUDENTS
3708 Forbes Street Oakland
Schenley 3403 Y. M. Ming, Mgr.
to get their hats, which were fiying
in all directions.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOUR.THE TARTAN.WEDNESDAY, MARCH 17, 1920.
liiiimi i mini DENAairiiiiiiBi—HM DDDCD i«inBHMwan»M———an——aaæra
STUDENTS ATTENTION
You Are Invited and Urged to Attend
A Style Show
of the World Famous
Hart Schaffner 
Marx
CLOTHES
For Young Men
‘‘Ê.fcViA*.»
PfMWiia
wJhh eL aLhr gstSallh iLnQuyPusQ
Thursday, March 18, 1920
cPlm 11:30 A. M. Ql 1:30 P. M.
Students will find thousands of Hart Schaffner and Marx Spring Suits and Topcoats will be found at the
Pittsburgh Home of Hart Schaffner & Marx.”
Fifth AvenueSmithfield StreetDiamond Street
L®ES$S3$a

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY MARCH 17, 1920.THE TARTAN.PAGE FIVE.
|$M$! <Sverj/tfìing.fòv tiïe 
V. Drafting rRgom.
A complete line of high 
grade sets and 
separate pieces.
OAKLAND 
SAVINGS & TRUST 
COMPANY
Member Federal Reserve System 
Capital - - - $200,000.00 
Surplus and Undivided
Profits - - $260,000.90 
Deposits, Over - $4,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
A BIT O’DOPE.
"We claim that, about the busluest 
person iu the world is a woman who 
has discovered a pimple on her luce.” 
—HOLCAL).
Fools occasionally tlud opportuuities 
but wise men make them.
That which calls out the largest re­
sponse from college students is tho 
challenge of a hard job tor a great 
cause.
2,;>33 Japanese students were study­
ing in other coutnries in 1D1Ü.
The study of some foreign language 
is compulsory in all government 
schools of China. In most of them, 
English is the foreign language taught.
British India had 121! art colleges 
for men and 12 for women in 191G-17. 
These institutions enrolled 47,135 stu­
dents, of whom only 842 were women.
A world federation of university stu­
dents against the liquor traffic is the 
announced plan of the Intercollegiate 
Prohibition Association. It plans to 
unite with the student temperance or­
ganizations already existing in a num­
ber of countries, and then to develop 
similar movements in all the other 
countries.
“Jonah was a conundrum, and the 
whale gave him up.”
The government of Ecuador ex­
pends $125,000 annually for univer­
sity education, »"bile there are only 
340 students in its universities.
$40,000.00 was psont by Purdue 
University students for dancos an* 
similar social functions this pust sem­
ester according to an estimate by the 
Purdue Exponent. Tech will have no 
trouble ranking a close socond.
‘•Doubtless the conaus llguros will 
show tiiat presidential aspirants aro 
still a minority in tho country.”
A student, volunteer band, gospel 
deputation teams, and a temporaneo 
society aro some featuros of student 
life at Assuit Collogo, Egypt.
That tlio number of scholastic fail­
ures Ibis year baa broken all records 
in tlio unlveraltiea roproaontod ia re­
ported from a coni’eronco of ton uni­
versity Deans of men bold at tho Uni- 
verally of Illinois, Fob. 20-21. Unl- 
voralty atandarda in gonorai wore re­
ported lower than usual, while interest 
in social »affaira and student actlvltloa 
waa greater. Tlio war waa blamed as 
ono cause.
A ‘‘Problems in Citizenship" course 
will bo required of all Froalunon al. tho 
University of Missouri, beginning next 
fall. It will talco ono-Lhird of their 
time, and will includo problema in 
economica and govornmont and a 
atudy of political aoionco, sociology 
and American history.
Tho University of Pennsylvania ban 
adoptod tho honor ayalom by tlio over* 
Whelming voto of 2,1)00 to 100.
"A cynic ia a man who claims to bo 
tirod of tho world. But In reality tho 
world la tlrod of him.”
No universities and no atato liberal 
arts colleges exist in Brazil. Indeed 
Lhoro is only ono liberal arts college 
of any kind. But there are a large 
number of high grade professional 
schools.
The Corda Fnatros Federation In­
ternationale des EtudUnites was form­
ed at Pisa, Italy, in 1897. Eight inter­
national congresses were hold prior to 
1914. A preliminary conforonco is 
called for Geneva, Switzerland, this 
coming August, and tho next congress 
for Montevidio, Uruguay, In 1921. Tho 
Association of Cosmopolitan Clubs is 
is the American branch of this inter­
national federation.
A THRILLING WIND
One of the harrowing incidents of 
last Friday's windstorm was contrib­
uted by a paper whose report of the 
havoc began on the first page and 
broke there in the midst of a palpi­
tating experience, thus:
A young woman at Fifth avenue and 
Wood street was blown against a 
building and portions of her clothing 
tom off. Men knocked each othei 
down in a rush
COLLEGE CLUBS TO SING APRIL 14
The Dartmouth College Glee and 
Mandolin Club on April 14 will give a 
joint concert with the musical clubs 
of Washington and Jefferson College 
in the Schenley Theater. The concert 
is being arranged by a joint commit­
tee of the Pittsburgh Alumni Asso­
ciation of W. & J. and the Western 
Pennsylvania Alumni Association of 
Dartmouth, headed by Oliver W. 
Brown of Pittsburgh and J. E. Kun- 
kle, Jr., of Greensburg.
To get placed, to be given yout 
lines, to learn how to say them, to 
have a few rehearsals, to appear, La 
see the final curtain and then walk off 
stage, glowing with your triumph or 
depressed with your failure, accord­
ing to your reception by those out 
front, doesn't constlLuto entirely tho 
responsibilities incident to tho activi­
ties of one who has gone in for the 
drama or its kindred arts. It doesn't 
at Carnegie Tech, anyhow.
and gone, 1 rest my shaking form 
upon a drug store stool and wink an 
eye and grab a soda on the sly.
Now is the time when each good 
Prof. his. old and tattered garments 
doff and then outshone the gayest 
swain until alas, there comes a rain 
and then the raiment once so gay is 
by the ashman hauled away.
The beanery too takes on new life 
and enters in this vale of strife uud 
Tiny fiwoars with uplift ^haud his 
goods are fresh from off the land. But 
his spring peas 1 greatly fear have 
seen a long and vogue career while 
fresh spring chicken ‘‘fine for frying” 
have voted twice for Jennings Bryan.
All out of doors now calls to play, 
the Ouija boards are all laid way, 
deceased relations give no thrills we 
care not what they do wor pills or if 
they all have Packard cars and jazz 
about among the stars.
Oh, brothers shun thee of all dates 
for now the Maggio seek their mates, 
the woods are filled with fleeing males 
with ardent damsels on their trails. 
’Tis the most deadly time of year for 
Spring and leapyear both are here. 
• * *
His eye sight’s gone,
Poor Jimmy Pharr, 
lie watched a lady 
Board a oar.* * *
OUR OWN SAMUEL PEPPY 
Up betimes and to school by dinky, 
where was all morning. Did cut two 
classes and so on foot thru Schenley 
Park with Mar. where would fain go 
round by Oakland and there did look 
upon and buy her a Sundae, 35c, and 
so to Beanery where the food doth ap­
pal me but must needs eat there being 
no better. Thence to school and so 
home by 69 to dinner. And so back to 
my mummery in Bashville which I 
like me exceeding of its toughness.
Thence home with L. Paquin where
did sup at the "Greeks” with great 
pleasure and then to bed.
10th. Up and to school but come as 
usual too late for my qight-thirty. 
Skibo for lunch and was all after­
noon hard at scri veiling. Tlionco 
home with Dor. in her gas bus which 
goes prettily. And so to playhouse for 
‘‘Runald.” Have played in it ten or 
eleven times but think it but a mean 
show ojid cannot become reconciled to 
it. Home late and did observe D. Mar­
tin, Brandeln and Stoddard running 
wildly about on Woodlawn with crys 
of “Whoops my dear,” and the time 
with much tossing of red lanterns. 
Did attempt to quiet them but all be­
yond reason. To bed with great pleas­
ure.
12th. Up and to school all day and 
at night to Homo Concert with J. 
Ames, L. Paquin, J. Ess. Tirlqg soon 
of singing did fall to noting fresh hair­
cuts and other matters. Out with 
great relief and to home. Think but 
meanly of formal dances and cannot 
conform dross suits to the shimmy. 
Supped late at Greeks and so to bod.I« * *
'JA ’VER STOP TO THINK—
Why Socrates said he was the wis­
est man in thq world—
Why tho grading system at Tech ia 
so complex—
That I-Iorbort Hoover was a mining 
engineer—
That tho faculty at Toch think that 
they are overworked—
That even Julius Caesar met Ilia 
fate in March—
Why so many men flunk at Toch— 
That Barnea moana woll—
How small you are In Pittsburgh 
and how small Pittsburgh Is compared 
with some other cltios and that those 
cities are but fly specks compared 
with the Earth and that tho Earth ia 
just a pinpoint in our Solar System, 
and that probably our Solar System 
combined with an infinite number of 
others, many times larger than ours, 
is just an atom in another world and 
then 'ja 'ver think where you fitted 
in—* * *
That Sir Oliver Lodge was sail—* * *
That there are 290 shopping days be­
fore Christmas.* * *
For further jokes see Musical Club write-up.
TO SERVE YOUR BEST NEEDS
OAKLAND
COMMUNITY
HOUSE
3904 FORBES- STREET 
TO HELP YOU ENJOY COLLEGE
THE GRAFF CO.
RANGES, STOVES, FURNACES,
MANTELS AND TILING 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
PHONES:
Bell, 559 Grant P. & A., 559 Main
Patronize The Tartan Advertisers,
NOTE—Articles found on the campus 
or in the buildings should be turned 
in at the Office of the Dean of Men, 
Central Building, and lost articles 
should be inquired for at the same 
office.
* * *
FRAT PIN — Kappa Sigma Rho. 
Somewhere in Industries. Kindly re­
turn to Dean Tarbell’s office.
* * *
LOST — A pair of black leather 
gloves, wool-lined. Finder please 
turn them in to Dean Tarbell’s office. 
$1.00 Reward.
* * *
LOST—Gold fountain pen, between 
Morewood Ave. and Carnegie Library, 
on Forbes St. Finder please return to 
Director’s office, Arts Division.
* * *
LOST—Friday, March 12, a Lefox 
notebook. Reward If returned to Don 
Sillers, Junior Commercial.
* * *
FOUND—Girl’s umbrella after Sci­
ence Freshmen dance in Union, March 
11. Apply at Dean Tarbell’s office.
College-Wits Contest Number
March
13th
Issue
ASCENSION EPISCOPAL CHURCH 
Ellsworth Avenue and Neville 8tr«et 
DR. WYATT BROWN, Rector 
DR. R088 R. CALVIN, Assistant.8unday Servioe«, 8:00 A. M., 11:00 A M. and 8:00 P. M.College Men’s Bibla Claa« at 10:00, W'd by Dr Calvin.'i* Qnnulnely W*lcom«.
The Campus Anvil
Believe it or not—it's a fact.
That simple, soft foil Fatima 
package is today America’s most 
fashionable package for cigarettes.
Most fashionable because most 
widely used by those men who 
know "what's what" in smokes.
At the big hotels and clubs, at 
smart resorts such as Palm Beach 
and Atlantic City—even at New­
port itself—the Fatima package 
now holds the prestige formerly 
held by the fancy, expensive paste- 
board box.
The reason for Fatima's popu­
larity is "JUST ENOUGH 
TURKISH,"
Instead jof containing too much 
Turkish as.<do the expensive straight 
Turkish cigarettes, Fatima contains 
just enough Turkish—-just enough 
to taste right and just enough to 
leaye a/ man feeling right, even 
when he smokes more than usual.
You, too, will be proud of 
Fatima's package as soon as you 
test Fatima's quality.
FATIMAA Sensible Cigarette
"—just enough Turkish” 20 j~OT 23 CCTlts
Loft and Found
WOW!Our idea was to encourage a lot of young literary idealists by printing their immature but earnest compositions in a great national magazine.
The cover design is a fair sample of how unsophisticated are these modern students.Unsophisticated—belli They’re un­principled young devils. Absolutely no restraint. They ought to bo suppressed —not encouraged.
And gosh I Tho way they talk about girls.They kiss a girl with about as much shy resorvoasyou would feel picking up a fat lady's bundle in a street car.
And drink! Why you would think prohibition bad driven all tho joy out of their lives -taken the edge out of college, as you might say. Thoro, wo thought up a joko all ourselves.Say, but tho kids aro clovor.
Thoro’s something about this wit of youth that gets you—a froshnos»—an irresponsible sparkle—something of tho wild, untrammelled, devilishjoypusucss that older men fool when they slip off into tho woods for a holiday.
Wo can’t describe it but nothing just like this issuo of JUDGE was over published before. In its way, it’s a mastorploco.
Wo’vo caught on tho wing tho ossonco of that glorious, elusive something that makes old men long for ono more goldon hour on tho campus—for the ¦> truo-hoartod jollity of tho days wuun good follows got together for tho cyni­cism that was happy, tho wit that didn’t sting, the oath that didn’t curse, tho sin that didn’t soli.Anil artl Thoro aro at least thirty- nine different schools of art born In this issue.All tho regular JUDGE feature» of course- Wall Mason—foreign Joko»— the theatre—"Bad Breaks".
Are you reading these "Bad Breaks”? They are groat a dollar’» worth o! laughs In this ono department.
Don’t miss this wonderful Issue of
judge—
J “The Hcippy Medium” 
15c all nr wsHuvkUiH
finbpf dljatfm (Enngrrgatinn
Fifth and Morewood Avenues.
Samuel H. Goldenson, Ph. D., Rabbi. 
Temple Study Tel., Schenley 275.
SUNDAY LECTURE 
Sunday Morning at 11:10.
Subject: “Unpossessed Possession.” 
Rev. Dr. Samuel S. Goldenson.
Sabbath Service, Saturday Morning 
at 10:45.
BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN ! 
CHURCH
Bellefleld and Fifth Avonucs
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D. D., 
Minister.
Preaching Sorvlcea 11 «nd S.
Sunday school at 10.
Christian Endeavor at 7.We want the Tech boys to at­tend our services and learn to know us aa the congregation of "Friendly People,.” A hearty weloome awaits you.
Grace Cimrch
(Reformed)
BAYARD and DITH RIDGE STREETS 
FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister. 
8ERVICE8:Sunday School—9:45 A. M.Morning Worship—11 A. M Social Hour and Luncfieon for stu­
dents, 15c, at 6 o’clock.
Christian Endeavor—7 P. M. 
Popular Evening Services at 7:45. 
Sermon for Head and Heart.
A cordial welcome to all Students.
ST. PAUL’S CATHEDRAL 
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.Masses: 8:80, 8:00, 9:00, 10:00 and11:00 A. M. on Sundays and Holy Days.Vespers on Sun^aya at 7:30 P M. Pew 58. Middle Alnle, for Tech Stu-
Third United 
Presbyterian Church |
DR. HUGH B. SPEER, Pastor 
Shady and Northumberland Avenues 
Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M.. Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M. and 8:00 P. M.Young People’s Service, 7:00 P. M. Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages. A cordial welcome to all.
Her violet eyes were limped pools, 
You'd love hed till you found 
That Myrtle was beyond a doubt, 
A nabid hot dog hound.
She ate big* woof-woof sandwiches 
-Made from an ancient daschund 
Big thick ones, five by ten, or more 
Made mustard-garlic fashion.
It made no difference when or where 
Or who else was around.
She’d eat ’em hot, she’s eat ’em colt}, 
That rabid hot-dog hound.* "* *
AT LAST 
The ancient discussion whether thfe 
beanery Is serving butter or oleo liap 
been brought to a close, both sidep 
agreeing that it is neither.* * *
FORCE OF HABIT?
When skirts 
were longer it 
was considered 
quite proper 
for a lady to raise 
them
when crossing 
the street 
But, brothers, 
now
when they are so short 
Why is it?* * * jSPRING HAS COME!
(With mildest apologies where neces­
sary.) i
Oh Spring has settled on the hum 
and robins sing to beat the band, anti 
flowers bloom like other things anti 
flappers dream of diamond rings. Thje 
lovelorn jays roam thru the parkjp 
and are for cupid easy marks and kee^) 
him busy making darts and Unneijr 
tubes for punctured hearts. They fill 
and spout their anguish into pomes. 
The youthful mind gives birth to musp 
the streets beneath are filled with 
slush and maidens fair and oft dis­
creet raise up their skirts to cro^s 
the street. By merest hearsay this jl 
know I never look tQ prove it Hbl
I miss the marks of other days that 
used to greet my thirsty gaze. Thje 
bock beer signs that used to bloonj. 
I’d hie me to a beer saloon and re^t 
my foot upon the rail and listen to tlip 
barkeep’s tale. Alas, all this is dea^
'For cltattUepackagtt 
lhefanc]»-colonJpatle- 
board box no lanuet 
i**mt tob» the mode, "
Try this .over on your silde .rul^. 
She. was a very pretty lass . - I
Her hair a golden shimmer 
And every time she smiled on you : 
You’d stake your soul to win her. :
230-234 Diamond Street 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
A______________________
Bosom
Friands"
STEINER & VOEGTLY 
HARDWARE COMPANY

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE SIX.THE TARTAN.WEDNESDAY, MARCH 17, 1920.
Last Friday perfected the organiza­
tion of a club, one of the most unique 
on the campus, at the Shadyside 
Presbyterian. The membership of the 
club consists ol those who are inter­
ested in advancing religious life at 
Tech. The idea was originated by Dr. 
Kerr under whose guidance and lead­
ership the membership has rapidly 
grown to the maximum of thirty.
The delegates to the Student Volun 
teer Convention were at first inter­
ested in this work but it was later 
thought advisable to extend the mem­
bership to all those interested.
All plans for tlieinstallatlon of a 
Student Branch of the Y. M. C. A. are 
being perfected by the club and they 
hope to organize one soon.
The name “Leknon” is not signifi­
cant of what it may seem to be. It 
is *a Greek word and typifies the work 
that the club has entered and does not 
mean non-Tech. Contrarily it is all 
for the advancement of Tech.
Meetings are held every Friday at 
1:30 at the church, the time being 
spent on Boble study.
A similar organization exists at 
Pitt under the name of Pitpin Club 
and lias proved very successful.
The Mellon National Bank it 
one of the moat thoroughly 
organized, «trongest financial 
institutions in the country.
It it in a position to handle 
any account, large or small, 
frith care and competency.
Here’s mp 
to teeth, m 
appetite, % 
digestion I \
Pittsburgh, Pa.
The flavor 
lasts-and the 
electrically- 
sealed 
package 
brines
SPECIALISTS IN
Formal Dress
Evening Clothes and 
Acessories For Rent
DRESS SUIT 
RENTAL CO.
4C6 Pittsburgh Life Building 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Bell Phone 1254 GrantWRIGLEYSDO YOU KNOW THE SECRET?
“Well I’ll be ---------but he nevei
finished his statement for he was in­
terrupted by his companion.
"Can you tell me what it is all 
about?” and that is the question-every- 
one is asking nowadays. If you hap­
pen to know a M. M. D. Sophomore 
you are probably asking the sama 
question yourself. For the last week 
those Sophs have been going around 
with a big grin on their faces and an 
air of mystery about them. Some­
thing is going to happen and “you’ll 
be surprised.” Just wait, it is the
---------, but that’s the secret. The
Sophomores know but they will no. 
tell.
to you with all its 
goodness perfect­
ly preserved.
Sealed
Tight-
Kept 
Right ¡
One of your 
best friends is 
your pencil.fjim-iiuinTM!
The Grapliica is coming out strong 
with their newly organized team this 
year. The team looks promising, an* 
no doubt with the aid of their coach, 
“Martin,” they will win some high 
honors before the close of the season. 
Manager Berry is looking forward for 
better weather to put his team in a 
lighting condition.
The men are all around ball players 
hailing from all parts of the country. 
Shumate will prove an excellent play­
er on third base in stopping the ball. 
Smith, our westerner, will show us. 
some wild stunts in lassoing the pill 
out in the field. Davis and Shaw, who 
come from the city of brotherly love, 
will show no love for the opposite 
team in winning a game. Young and 
Koenig, our star pitchers, will make 
any team look old when It comes to 
playing ball. Hall, one of our busy 
printers in the shop, will print de­
feat on any team that comes up the 
pike. From what we hear ol' Itudisill’s 
batting average, it will be a long, long 
trail a winding with the ball. Brayer 
will support the, team from the record 
ol’ his wonderful catching.
There is a few more engagements 
open lor any'team of the school who 
wishes a game.
Keep your oyes open and you'll bo 
surprised.
DIXONS
IWRIGLEYS, ilS>
i
n IwrigleysIäI. is«rm ' T h ip ¿ if l~ tiC T GUM rUJU
quickens your 
pencil work, 
makes it easier 
and better. It 
is a friend in 
deed and at 
need.
Whose
Jhe Largest Selling 
Quality Pencil in
Sold by leading 
otationers—at school 
and in town.
Jìlacic Dolman .7 Copying
The Delta Upsllon Fraternity held a 
I’ornml dance In the Twentieth Cen­
tury Club last Thursday. Magglo’s 
Orchestra furnished the music, and 
certainly did It well. The music was 
the kind that one cannot listen to and 
sit still. One of the feature dances 
was a spotlight dance, during which 
there was a shower of confetti and 
blue and yellow balloons fro mthe bal­
cony of the room. About midnight 
supper was served. The favors were 
corsages of pink rosebuds. After sup­
per Carl B. Reed gave two interesting 
recitations, one a Franchman’s story 
of Macbeth, the other a humorous 
poem about Romeo and Juliet.
The patrons and patronesses were 
Mr. and Mrs. William E. Mott, Mr. and 
Mrs. E. Raymond Bossange, Mr. and 
Mrs. John T., Morris, Mr. and Mrs. 
John H. Leete, Mr. and Mrs. Edward 
Schemer, Mr. and Mrs. L. K. Yoder. 
The committee was W. H. Muller, 
chairman; A. J. Dreux and W. M. 
Burke. Someone said the only thing 
wrong »ttli the dance was that it 
came t* trn end.
AMHIUCAN I.HAI) I’KNCIL. CO.
AMERICAN LEAD PENCIL CO.
217 Fifth Avenue, N. Y.
DANCE?Satisfies the national 
demand for a whole­
some, pure and appe­
tizing beverage—at the 
soda fountain or with 
your meals.
DANCINQ LESSONSCLASS AND PRIVAT«
CRAIQ AND FORBES
Bevo will more than 
satisfy your thirst.
kurnaHnIThaHer
ST. LOUIS
M. M 0. WEEKLY ASSEMBLY.
The Tjekly assembly of Margaret 
Morris fc. Division was held on Wed­
nesday Uarcli 10. The assembly
proved > be h very Interesting as 
well an u pertinent one, Mrs. Eliza- 
.betli 'Vbjmorcken speaking on “Good 
Manner»» and Good Form.” Mrs. Ver- 
morckeL is an authority on the sub­
ject, in jrhlch way Dean Breed intro­
duced her, and the girls were only too 
glad to take the hints, given so grace­
fully, on the “llnost of the fine arts.” 
The girls realize fully that during 
their busy lives the niceties of good 
manners can be easily neglected and 
appreciate highly the kindly Influ­
ences used to make the M. M. girls 
“gontlewomeu.”
After announcements from the vari­
ous activities the assembly closed 
with the singing og “Alma Mater."
M. STOLZENBAUGH.
It must be 
Ice Gold
BATTERY
STRINGER’S DANCE
Broad and Sheridan Ave. 
All Kinds of Batteries 
Repaired mid Recharged
rjxiae
SERVICE
Time: 12:45.
Pkvce: M. M. Recreation
Hall.
Dale: Friday, 19. 1
Girls? Silre e n o u g h and 
plenty of them.
Boys? Come ahead—music,I 
girls and a mighty good time—| 
all for 15c. .Send in Your News Items,iiin>i:mui!iiuiiuiiiiuuQiiuiii!uiuuifliiiiuuiiii
