GIRLS’ SENIOR BALL 
FRIDAY, APRIL 4 
RITTENHOUSE
CHOOSE 
YOUR 
CAMPUS QUEEN
VOL. XVIII NO. 27CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIATUESDAY. APRIL 1, 1924
NEW YORK CITY 
PAPER PRAISES 
DRAMAT WORK
DANCE BY COMBINED
MUSICAL CLUBS SATURDAY.
Carnegie Drama Department 
is Characterized as One of 
the Shining Lights of Dis­
trict in Their Work
I The startling anuouncemont is 
j made the Girls’ Giee Club and String­
ers are combining with the men’s 
musical clubs to throw a dance in the 
Union this Saturday, April 5. This is 
the first joint dance to be offered and 
remarkable results are expected.
The tax has been set at a dollar 
and a quarter and Harrison’s Sublime 
Orchestra wilt furnish the heavenly 
strains.
CITES “BOLTED DOOR’
An article which appeared in the 
New York Times under the section 
headed “Sundry Sidelights 011 the 
Theatre and its People” shows in 
what high repute the Srama depart­
ment of our school is held. This art­
icle called Pittsburgh a “surburb of 
Oblivion” where plays which delight 
Broadway give performances only 
when there is no other place to go. 
But, to quote directly from the art­
icle, "Occasionally, something dra­
matically unique has its origin here. 
The students of the theatre and the 
drama, at the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology put on plays that are 
highly interesting and diverting. They 
have just put on a new nad unusual 
mystery play entitled “The Bolted 
Door.” The players give excellent 
performances. Mary Brown is very 
convincing as a capable woman lost 
to spiritualism; Verner Halden is a 
crook as snave as Lowell Sherman 
might be; and Hardie Albright is 
much more finished and pleasing as 
a juvenile than are the majority of 
enthusiastic juveniles we ordinarily 
see on the professional stage. This is 
a play which will not be entirely lost 
in Oblivion. More power to Tech’s 
Department of Drama!”
Carnegie, in the past few years, 
has come more and more into the 
limelight, and has become a big fact­
or in educational centers throughout 
the country. It has been recognized, 
appraised, ahd applauded for the ma­
ny and the unique opportunities 
which it offers. Its workshops, its 
finely equipped laboratories, its prac­
tical aplication of trades, its athletics, 
its music, and its drama have been 
praised and highly commended.
Carnegie is a young school, a very 
young school when compared with 
such universities as Harvard, Yale, 
Aside from being young, Carnegie is 
a technical, a vocational school, and 
such schools have, until quite recent­
ly, been more frowned upon than 
approved because they have deviat­
ed from the straight and narrow path 
of academic education laid down for 
them by the first universities. There­
fore, Carnegie Tech’s high position is 
that much more to be commended be­
cause of the difficulties in its path.
PI SIGMA TAU 
INSTALLATION 
FRIDAY NIGHT
‘MODERN PERIOD”, BY THE
MUSIC DEPT., ON SUNDAY
SENIOR GIRLS TO 
HOLD BALL FRIDAY
Initiation Conducted by Pi 
Delta Epsilon, Carnegiei 
Chapter of .National Jour- J 
nalistic Fraternity, Mar. 28
The Modern Period of Musical 
history, is the subject of next Sun­
day Night recital by students of the 
Music Department to be given in tho 
Arts Theatre.
This recital will illustrate the 
music of Brahms, Schumann, Men­
delssohn, and Caesar Franck, out­
standing deciples of the modern 
spirit in music.
This Year’s Affair Will be 
Formal Dinner Dance at 
Rittenhouse
New Eligibility Rules 
Passed On by Board
Changes Made in Rules 4 and 
8 of White Book
The Girls’ Senior Ball for this year 
has been planned as a formal dinner 
dance. The Ball will be held Friday 
night, April 4, at the Rittenhouse.
Every feature of the evening has 
been careTully selected to make the 
last important social function of the 
Senior Girls one of great enjoyment. 
The affair is exclusively for the girls 
of the Senior Class. The music will 
be furnished by the Collegiate Imps, 
and the hours are expected to be 
from seven to one.
The following persons will form 
the receiving line: Miss Mary B. 
Breed, Miss Mary T. Brown, Dr. 
Thomas S. Baker, Mr. J. Vick 
O’Brien, Miss Frances McClymonds, 
M. M. senior, president; Miss Cora 
Pitcairn, senior representative from 
Arts, and Miss Elizabeth Lewis, chair­
man of the Senior Ball committee.
The guests will-include Miss Mary 
B. Breed, Miss Mary T. Brown, Mr. J. 
Vick O’Brien, Dr. Thomas S. Baker, 
and Miss Mary Speers, president of 
the Junior Class in Margaret 
Morrison.
The preliminiary tickets have been 
on sale for two weeks at the price of 
?2.50. It is necessary to have the 
preliminary before one can buy the 
final ticket which will be $5.00 and 
which can be purchased Monday, 
Tuesday, and Wednesday, March 31, 
April 1, and April 2. -Wednesday 
April 2, is the very last opportunity 
to secure the final ticket.
(Continued on Pago Three.)
SOPH-PLEBE SMOKER 
WILL BE HELD APR. 4
Two new eligibility rules have been 
passed by the Executive. Board on 
March 5th, which should be of much 
interest to those at all concerned with 
their standing.
Rule 4, on, page 37 of the last White 
--Bai5Tc~'has% been revised to read: (a) 
(a student, a/student is in good stand­
ing—^vdio'-lias earned .150 or more 
quality points for the preceding 
semester. A student who is eligible 
at the beginning of a semester will 
remain eligible, for the rest of the 
semester unless he become ineligible 
under rule S; (See rule S below) and i 
a student who is ineligible at the be­
ginning of the semester will remain 
ineligible 'for the entire semester un- 
) less his ca^se^ falls under the follow­
ing, cause (-b; A student having “I” 
grades' at the end of the semester is 
ineligible for the following semester 
unless he acquires 150 or more quality 
points at the next re-examination 
period.
Rule S reads: “A student placed-on 
probation by his faculty or by the 
Institute Committee on Discipline, 
becomes immediately ineligible.”
The second new rule is: “A student 
' becomes ineligible when he receives 
a grade of F or R after having re­
peated any course. He may become 
(Continued on Page Four.)
The members of the Plebe class will 
be guests of the Sophomores at a 
smoker to be held in the Union, Fri­
day, April fourth. The smoker, an 
annual affair, takes in the men of 
the two .classes in the three schools. 
The committee in charge is now plan­
ning some snappy entertainment for 
the event.
The Sophs will cease their oppres­
sions for a few hours Friday night, 
April 4 to become the hosts of the 
Plebes. It will last from 8:30 until 
11:00. The committee promises some 
good entertainment in the form of 
stunts, including some lively boxing 
bouts; speeches by Tommy Griggs 
and others; and music by an orches­
tra which has been engaged for the 
occasion.
The committee consists of J. Sea­
man, chairman; J. Harris; E. Perrin; 
and-W. Simboli. The committee asks 
the co-operation of all tho-Sophs and 
requests that they all be present to 
accord the Plebes a hearty welcome.
All Plebes and Sophomores should 
attend this annual smoker which 
brings together the Freshmen and 
Sophomores of the Colleges of En­
gineering, Arts, and Industries. All 
Plebe regulations will be lifted for 
the duration of the affair.
EIGHT ARE INITIATED
NOMINATIONS FOR 
COUNCIL PRESIDENT
On Friday evening, vlarcli 2S, the 
Pi Delta Epsilon fraternity formally 
organized Pi Sigma Tau, women’s hon­
orary fraternity lor publications. 
This was the resuk of over half a 
years work in selecting and organiz­
ing the group of girrs wrho would be­
come the charter members.
At the beginning of the fall term 
last year, the members of Pi Delta 
Epsilon first consideiud organizing a 
publications honorary for women. 
This, they felt, would be of double 
benefit to the college; help the pub­
lications on the campus by | stimulat­
ing the girls interest in working for 
them and enable the girls to win rec­
ognition for the meritorious work 
that they were doing. The plan to or­
ganize was favorably voted upon and 
the first task to'select the girls, was 
undertaken. By December, nine girls 
had been selected who were doing 
active service on the four publications 
of the campus to which the girls are 
eligible. These names were an­
nounced by Ray Kellar, president of 
Pi Delta Epsilon, in General Assem­
bly. A week later in Margaret Mor­
rison Assembly, these nine girls were 
pledged. Mildred Able ('Shilling), Za- 
belle. Davis, (Puppet),. Sara Mae 
Everett (Shilling, Tartan), Ellen Ey- 
man (Shilling), Carol Foight (Shill­
ing, Tartan), Anna Kirker (Shilling. 
Thistle), Jane Markell (Sliilling, 
Thistle), Janet Perry (Shilling), Mar­
garet Welland (Thistle).
With the pins at hand, organization 
and initial ceremony completed, the 
“Pi Dells” prepared to initiate the 
young and inexperienced Pi Sigma 
Tans. They were ordered to assem­
ble at the. Bird Cage Tea Room in 
East Liberty promptly at seven-thirty 
Friday night, and it is a remarkable 
(Continued on Page Two.)
New Event Carded for 
Fri. Morning of C. W.
Program is Nearly Completed 
and Will be Out Soon
INDUSTRIES JUNIOR
CLASS HAS MEETING.
At a meeting of the Industries 
Junior class last Thursday at 11:30, 
a special election was held, j 
Marcus A. Donahoe aijd C. E. Mellor | 
were elected to represent the Junior 1 
Class on the newly created Indus­
tries Senate; and John Smaney, C. 
B. Heist, C. E. Mellor, R. L. Sand- 
brook, and Art Barr, were appointed 
to look into the matter of obtaining 
Senior hats for next year.
The Industries Junior class is tak­
ing energetic steps to establish them­
's elves as one of the most active 
classes in school.
Judge Steffen, Football Hero and
Jurist, Features in Chivalry Role
On the bench? Not by a jugfull! 
Wally, better known as Judge Steffen 
of Chicago, disproves the slur cast 
by this phrase, as lie substitutes some 
real, old-fashioned chivalry for his 
daily dozen, and demonstrates that 
when it comes to a scrimmage he is 
certainly not a back number.
A clipping from a Chicago paper 
has come to the attention of the 
omniscient news department of the 
Tartan, wherein it is found that Wal­
ly is a hero in ordinary prosaic life 
as well as on the gridiron. Let us 
quote:
Judge Walter P. Steffen discovered 
this morning that in the administra­
tion of justice there is no such thing 
as an eight hour day, and also that 
a football training is an excellent 
education for the bench.
“Judge Steffen was awakened early
today by the sound of a woman’s 
screams. He leaned out of his window 
but could see nothing. Hastily throw­
ing on some clothes, he went down 
into the street.
"The screams he found, came from 
Mrs. John C. Slocum, his next door 
neighbor, who was leaning from the 
window shrieking for help. The judge 
investigating further found tbat Mr. 
John Slocum and an acquaintance 
were in a clinch in the middle of the 
floor.
“Slocum was apparently trying to 
beat the other gentleman (?) over 
the head with an automobile crank 
and was very vehemently and unkind­
ly acusing him of showing his (Slo- 
mu’s) wife, from whom he had been 
separated, undue attention. Judge 
Steffen immediately saw that Slo- 
(Continued on Page Three.)
Plans for the fifth annual Campus 
weolc aro beginning to look like some­
thing. Instead' of a vague idea, tho 
committee now has a tontativo 
schedule which in filling up quickly. 
AH tho events have been approved, 
although all have not yet received 
places on tho calender.
All the old events will be held 
again with one exception. • The Mardi 
Gras, the Coronation, the Sweep­
stakes, the p'lay1, the vaudevillo show, 
Qualification; all will be back. The 
single missing event will be the 
Coronation dance, formerly held on 
Thursday night. The faculty com­
mittee has ruled against holdin^the 
dance, and instead there will prob­
ably be a dance Saturday night. 
Saturday. performance of the play 
will probably be reserved for the 
Alumni, as Saturday will be Alumni 
day, and for that reason it is planned 
to hold a dance for the students.
There will be several new events.' 
The principal one will be held Friday 
morning, and a new committee, head­
ed by J. C. Sanford, has been ap­
pointed to take care of it. No details 
will be given out until all the plans 
are completed. We may say, how­
ever, that it will be something entire- j 
ly new on the Campus, and some­
thing in wbicli every student, student- 
ess, ahd all the friends can particip­
ate. While it will not crowd out the 
Mardi Gras, the principal of universal 
participation will be present, and it 
is sure to go over big. It will last 
all morning, so don’t be making any | 
plans for something else.
The final approved program will be 
printed as soon as it is obtained.
Nominations for President of 
Student Council at As- 
semb ies
To-day nunnnations. will be made 
for the annual Spring elections for 
the president of the Student Council. 
In each of the four assemblies, un­
der the supervision of the respective 
school senates, nominations are to bo 
made from the present Junior classes 
in each College.
As stated in the By Laws of tho 
Constitution, one vweelc shall elapse' 
between nominations and election 
during which time the nominations 
shall be published in the Tartan and 
posted on the school bulletin boards.
Additional nominations may be ad­
ded or withdrawn; by the nominee at 
any time previous' to tho election by 
notifying chairman of meeting in 
which nominations were held.
The elections pf the candidates 
from each school' will bo hold next 
Tuesday in the various colleges under 
the supervision of the respectivo 
School Senates, and from tho can­
didates thus selected tho Student 
Council shall elect, the President ot 
the Council for next year.
In order that the students may 
secure a more thorough view of tho 
idea and purposes of tho mon for 
whom they are voting, tho Tartan 
shall publish interviews with names 
of the nominees/ containing thoir 
opinions on some of tho moro im­
portant questions affocting the wol- 
faro of the students.
FIRST QUEENS 
TO BE ELECTED 
NEXT TUESDAY
Fifteen Prospective Queens 
Will be Chosen by Ballot 
from Each College April 8- 
9-10, During Noon Hour
FINAL CHOICE MAY 13
PLEBES AND SOPHS GET
. TOGETHER THIS FRIDAY
After almost a year of struggling 
to keep tlie Plebes under control, the 
Sophomores have planned to show the 
Plebes that they are 'real fellows. 
Dropping all hostilities for the even­
ing of Friday, April 4, the Plebes will 
be entertained in the Union at eight 
o’clock, with various stunts and a 
smoker at the expense of their ene­
mies.
• Of course it wouldn’t do to let the 
cat out of the bag and tell all the pro­
gram here, because that would cause 
all in school to want to come and all 
wo want are Plebes and Sophs. Tho 
Sophomores want the Plebes to turn 
out and enjoy an evening at their ex­
panse, .a time when every Plebe will 
meet every Sophomore in a regular 
way. There will be eats and also an 
orchestra made up of Sophomores.
The smoker is a three school af­
fair, and each school is striving to be 
well represented. Come on, Plebes! 
Show the Sophomores that you ap­
preciate their hospitality.
Campus Comment
By SARA MAE EVERETT
Do you think names should bo 
published with tho student’s opinions 
in this column, or do you think tho 
names should bo suppressed?
At first glance, this may seom to 
be a foolish question, but II! you con­
sider it, you will soe that it is quite 
a, reasonable ono. People (older onos) 
have been questioning the wisdom of 
printing student’s names in this 
column and so J liavo put It up to 
tho students themselves and this is 
what they say:
“Kit” Carson, Engineering, ’2G, 
says:
“In view of lho purpose of tills 
column which is to present for dis­
cussion questions which interest tho 
student body as a wliolo, names aro 
necessary to its success. The names 
shows whore the information camo 
from, which I think should bo mado 
known.”
“Tommie” Greggs, Senior Engine­
er says:
*‘I think the names should be print­
ed because names add an element of 
personal interest to tho goneral inter­
est of the column. There is nothing 
to be gained by suppressing names.”
Russ” Mitchell, Engineering, *25, 
says:
“Students take moro interest in 
the opinions when tho names aro 
printed. The names attract atten­
tion and what the persons say keeps 
it.”
John Pelican, Eelectric Engineer­
ing, ’24, thinks that,
“A man in giving an opinion should | 
be willing to stand behind it, should ; 
be willing to let other people know i 
what his honest opinion is.”
“Dick” Schmidt, S’enior Engineer! 
says:
“I see, no reason why the names 
should increase the value of the 
column, and they save one from gett-; 
ing the “royal raspberry", but I also j 
think they frequently add to thej 
interest.”
F. W. Cook, Civil Englnner, ’26, 
says:
“Don’t you think it is up to what 
the fellow himself wants? Those who 
wanted their names suppressed could 
have it done, but I think they would 
be few.”
Then John Cooke, also a Sopho- 
(Continued on Page Four)
Do you know what day this is? It 
is the first day of April. In just one 
week now, tho preliminary elections 
for Campus Queen will take place. 
One week from today, on April S, the 
men and women at Carnegie will be 
expected to vote for tho selectiou of 
the fifteen best looking girls in the 
Senior classes at Margaret Morrison 
and College of Fine Arts. These 
elections will bo run on three days, 
the Stii, 9tli and 1:0th, in all the 
schools on the campus. There will 
bo two girls appointed to have ohargo 
of the ballot boxes in each college, 
and these maidens will check off the 
names of tho mon as they voto for; 
their choices.
In next week’s issue of the Tartan 
a list of all the S'enior girls in Mar­
garet Marrison and in the Collogo of 
Fino Arts will be printed, so that 
any man who does not know all those 
beautiful damsels by namo (probably 
avoryono does), will liavo a chance to 
bocomo enlightened. The fifteen girls 
thus elected will bo tho guard of 
honor and beauty to surround the 
quoon at the final ritual.
From tills first group of Carnegie 
beauties, three of the most beautiful 
will bo choson at a second election to 
bo hold Immediately after our EasL- 
or vacation. Those throo girls will bo 
oxposod to tho wllos of tho movlo 
camera man. There will bo moving 
pictures takon of thom, and also pic­
tures prepared for tho downtown 
newspapers. Perhaps they will also 
bo a popular "Topics of tho Day” 
around and among our famous Insti­
tution for many days thereafter, or 
until they aro finally arranged In 
tho Importance of thoir stellar por- 
foellon, as judgod by tho eholco of 
moro mon, of course.
(Continued on Pago Four.)
Senior Ball Prelims 
Are Placed on Sale
CLASSES WILL RESUME
ON TUESDAY, APRIL 22.
Attention is called to an error on 
page 124 of the 1923—24 Student 
Handbook wherein appears tho in­
formation that classes will resume 
after tho spring recess on Wednesday, 
April 23rd, whereas the official ca­
lendar shows that classes resume on 
Tuesday, April 22nd.
It is suggested that the students 
note this fact and avoid tho possibili­
ty of receiving a point. Please spread 
this information to your friends.
PLEBES ARE TO 
BE FOOLS FOR 
ONE DAY ONLY
FRATERNITY BALL 
PLANS COMPLETE
Old Gold and Blue to Play 
for Pan-Hellenic at Uni­
versity Club
Obie Newman Will Head the 
Entertainment
SONG BOOK 
ANNOUNCEMENT
The second Hhlpment of 500 •
• Song Books has not as yet. ar- •
• rived. The shipment is being •
¦ traced.
One book is reserved for each •
• outstanding ticket and ticket •
• holders will be notified of the •
¦ arrival of the books.
No further sales will be made • 
I at this time as the firBt edition •
* has been sold out. ;
Ticket holders are asked to - 
•> be patient and delivery of the • 
?I* books will be made immediately •
? upon their arrival.
Tho Senior Ball Committee In fast 
getting things in sliapo to make tho 
Ball a novor-to-bo-forgotten ovont, 
Ohio Newman has boon socurod tq‘ 
entertain. Evoryono knows how Ohio 
can sing and bln program alone 
might bo woll worth tho price of tho 
ball.
Tho hardost job tho commlttoo has 
yot is to pick an orchestra for tho 
occasion. Members of tho commlttoo 
have boon scouting around but liavo 
boon unable as yot to malco terms 
with a suitable orchestra.
However, a contract will probably 
bo signed by tho time this articlo 
goes to tho printer. The list of or­
chestras from which the committee 
will pick are all ace-liigh and they 
guarantee high class music.
This week the preliminary ticlcots 
will be placed in the hjnids of the 
section leaders in Engineering and 
Industries while in Arts tickets may 
be procured from Couse and Sonne- 
man. The price of the Preliminary 
tickets is one dollar and a half. Every 
Senior who has any intention of go­
ing to the ball should support the 
committee by getting his preliminary 
ticket as soon as possible. They need 
the money to go ahead with their 
plaps and to get some idea of how 
many will attend.. What do you say 
Seniors? Let’s get behind the sBall 
and help put it over big.
Many of you already have dates. 
If you haven’t, get busy and you who 
have, get your tickets right away and 
don’t keep the committee in the 
dark about your intentions. The fact 
that the Ball will be held on April 
24, only three dayB after the Easter 
holidays makes It harder to put 
across. Some of the people about 
school have their doubts as to whe­
ther we can swing a formal Ball. 
Well, we can.
Keep it always before you. Date: 
April 24, Place: University Club.
Time: Dancing from nine till ono. 
And Ohio Newman entertaining.
LEAGUE OF WOMEN VOTER8
TO MEET WITH Y. W. C. A.
Tho League of Women Voters and 
tho Y. W. C. A. will havo a Joint 
mooting tomorrow In tho Margaret 
Morrison Recreation Hall at 12:20. 
Lunch will be sorvod a» usual.
Mias Spillman, a Carnoglo gra­
duate v/ith whom the girls woro so 
dolighted at the last Joint meeting, 
will talk about Primary Elections. 
She is a snappy and interesting 
speaker and there Is aure to be much 
in her talk that will be of interest 
even to those who are not quite old 
enough to vote.
The Old Gold and Blue Orchestra 
of Morgantown has bon engaged to 
play for the Inter Fraternity Ball at 
the University Club on Apr.il 10. The 
committee gave much thought to the 
selection of a good dance orchestra 
and the Old Gold and Blue was 
choson only after it had proved itself 
the best on tho market. Last weolc 
tickets wore sont out to tho different 
fraternities in proportion to tho num­
ber of active members In tho various 
chapters. The total number of 
tickets is two hundred. A great many 
of tlio fraternities sold thoir allot­
ment the day it. was received.
The Ball favors nro to be distribut­
ed In an unusual way. Some of thom 
aro oxpenslvo, nnd some, not so ex­
pensive. Each ticket purchaser takes 
ft. chanco upon tho kind of favor ho 
will receive. The variety of favors 
and tho uncertainty as to what euch 
one will win aro expected to add ex­
citement to tho ordinarily prosaic 
operation of distributing tho favors.
Distinctive programs liavo boon 
ordered. They aro of striking design 
and will serve as worthy souvenirs 
of tho dance.
Tho hours aro nine to two. A 
buffet supper will bo sorvod during 
tho ovonlng.
Tho commlttoo in charge of tho 
Ball, consists of tho following men: 
0. .1, Kuhn, chairman; C. II. James, 
M. I>. " Kalli'oltz, John Good and 
Wayno Koppes.
MAGCiII: MURIMI SOPHS 
OUT TO TAM li PLEBES
Tho Maggie Murph Sophs aro look­
ing around for tho person who an­
nounced a fow weeks ago, through 
tho Tartan, that tho Plobos "wore 
getting away with murder.''
Excitement certainly has reigned 
high for tho pant fow days. Tho wliolo 
affair started ovor tho fact that two 
plobes, In tones of accents rare, do- 
cldod not to carry out the son toncos
which that august body....... the Plebe
Regulation Committee ¦ laid down 
for them.
So, on, Tuesday morning tho Sophs 
began to wax furious and Lo spread 
Uiomselvos. Secret notices wore post­
ed and word went around that there 
was “dirt” to be done. Thoir 1’ury 
didn’t come to a pitch, however, un­
til Wednesday 110011, when they sur­
prised ono of tho offending plebes, 
earied her off to a spooky place, and 
with colors flying proceeded to im­
press tho girl with thoir dignity and 
authority.
That indeed stirred up the hornets’ 
nest. On Thursday, professors had 
difficulty in securing an audience 
for their lectures; class meetings 
were held; faculty advisors wore in­
terviewed,- and Wil'd’fepoi'ts' from bo.ljhJ u toi 
' (Continued on Page Two.) ”"^1
MEMORIAL COMMITTEE
WANTS SUGGESTIONS
The Senior Memorial Committee, 
composed of two students from each 
school, is seeking suggestions for a 
suitable memorial to be left at tho 
school to commemorate the achieve­
ments of Lhe class of ’24.
Anyone possessing one of those 
fleeting ideas should turn them oyjai- 
tfD Ahern or Turcotte f^m''<A.rts.,- 
Johnstqn_or_GIRroudy—-frefm En gin eer 
ing, and Thayer or Justice from In­
dustries. Miss Sleppy Is talcing care 
of Margaret Morrison.
Today’s School Assemblies 
Will by Their Applause 
Select the Freshmen to be 
Exempt from tlie Rules
TO PARADE AT 12:30
At 11:30 today the Plebes of each 
of tho four schools will appear at 
their own assemblies in Fool’s Day 
costume to have popular judgement 
passed upon the foolishness of their 
raiment.
Since the announcement of tho 
Fools’ Day rules, with tho generous 
number of exemptions from regula­
tions as prizes for the best costumes, 
the Froslunen havo been diligently 
preparing outfits which they think 
will have the widest appeal. The re­
sults of their efforts will go on exhi­
bition today.
At 12:30 a column of the Plobos 
will be assembled 011 Woodlawn Ave­
nue in front oC the College of Fine 
Arts and for tho following twenty 
minutes they will parade about tho 
campus. The parade will give stu­
dents of each school tho opportunity 
to view tho vestural monstrosities 
from tho others.
At the conclusion of the parade 
pictures of tho Freshmen exempted 
from regulnlions will bo taken as 
well as a group picture of all Fresh­
men on Machinery Hall stops.
The judges at the assemblies will 
bo the presidents ol’ the three upper 
classes and the Judgo of Trials. They 
will solect Lho Froslunen who rocolvo 
Lhe groalest npplauso. Not moro than 
eight or less than four shall bo ex- 
omplod In each of Lho Colleges, in 
tho College of Fine Arts, Lho ex­
emptions will be evenly divided 
boLwoon men and women.
Freshmen who do not don a fool­
ish garb today will bo punished by 
making an appearance at a later 
assembly in costume. No Plebe Is 
allowed to .attend class la anything 
but civilian dross,
The most original costumes will 
bo tho onos tlinl will got Lho popular 
Verdict, ThtmV aro no restrictions as 
Lo stylo, but; I hoy are required to 
have a reasonable ox Lout. The student 
Senate ol’ each school will act. as a 
censorship crnnniittoo, and will rofuso 
to pass all outranLs whoso vostural 
appondngos Lhoy judge Inadequate.
Fools’ Day will horenflor Lake tho 
(Contlnuod on Pago Four)
All Song Books Sold 
During Two Day Sale
Delayed Copies to be Given 
Out During This Week
The Ilnal report oL' tho Song Book 
Commlttoo show that nlno hundred 
and nlnoty-llvo copies ol’ tho book 
wore sold during Lhe two day cam­
paign which was carried on last 
week,
One thousand books wore ordorod, 
so thaL all told, the sales were al­
most complete. Tho extra fivo copies 
will be reserved to Insure against 
any mistake and to make sure that 
everyone who paid for a copy gets 
one.
Five hundred lioolcs wore distrib­
uted last week and the rest will bo 
ributed during this week. The 
boo leg were delayed, due Lo a 
typographical error by the printer 
which Required the return of the en- 
Llro shipment. The work of correct­
ing this misLalce necessitated the 
removal! nf Lhe page on which was 
printed/the picture of the school, and 
tho substitution of another page. 
This ywas a band job so thaL iL has 
takejn a longer time than it other­
wise-would.
The other copies of the book have 
been completed and are on their way, 
so Lliat before tho week is out there 
should be a book for every one who 
is the possessor of a Song Book 
ticket.
Taxi Cabs Play Auto Polo
After Drinking Coca Cola
(Not an advertisemenL)
While a maudlin crowd of crazy 
Chinese wore whooping up an Invi­
gorating game of Mali Jong In tho 
Arts School recently, several of Pitts­
burgh's most careful drivers gave an 
exhibition of thoir skill on tho lawn 
In front of tho establishment.
Nobody seems to know Just what 
It was all about and from reports 
nobody cured about anything but tho 
liquidation of Dio younger set. lie- 
ports have It that the Bawl, as thoy 
call IL, was a pronounced success. 
There’s no denying that most of those 
present displayed a most carefree at- 
Lilude inhorenl only in Lhose who 
have nothing lo worry abouL. And 
they didn’t!
At any olher Lime Lhe aspect of 
yellow and green chariots cavorting
miscellaneously 011 Lhe campus would 
have created quite a stir to say Lhe 
least. We shudder to think of tho 
ballywhoo and oratorical pyrotechnics 
which would have accompanied tho 
recording of the event on Lho archives 
of Lho Institution. But Lho tlmo was 
ripe—a fleet of battleships escorted 
by a squadron of flying vonnllllon 
lizards casually ambling over Lho 
campus were reported —• and dls- 
mlssod—'by1 a wave of the hand. 
What more then, could 0. mere taxi 
or two excite, than a casual glance?
The poet who ranted so enLhuslast- 
lcally about footprints on Lhe sands 
of Time knew nolliing abouL Lho in­
tricacies of explaining away ruts in 
the college’s fronL yard. Foot prints 
are all right when they are inscribed 
by a dainty number two brogue on 
(Continued on Page Two.)

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, APRIL 1. 1924
Published overy week by undorgrnduates or Urn Carnoglo Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Council.______ _____________
Entered In the Postofllce of Pittsburgh un second-class matter.____________
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF , ,
H. V. SIMPSON ................................................................................Holujnlcy !)H-
BUSIN1DSS MANAG 10K , t
¦T. C. MAJOll...........................................................................................»I"1"'1 11(1)1 ¦'
ICBNNJSTH AR'NOLD.......................................ScUanloy 1)1811—Managing Bdltor
FRED C. SMITH..............................................................Assistant Managing Editor
FRED T. PHIOLPS........................................................Assistant Managing Editor
ASSOCIATE EDITORS ¦
SAkA MAIO ...........................................................................................Schonloy ¡>¿¿0
MARK S. DOWNläS
II. II. WILSON ______________________________________________________________
NI3WS BDITOnS
W. WINNING ....................................................................................... Solionloy 007
F. D. ........................................................................................................ Schonloy 0070
A 1.1 KRorm ...................................Bdinnlny IIII.VII Alumni Editor
E. C. FRAZIER !.....................................................Schonloy 0148—•Athletic Editor
R. w. HI,HATH ................................................................................. Photographer
W. K.  .................................................................................flxchango Ed tor
10. P. COUSIS, .lit..................................................................................... i ”,DON DAHIJNMIt ................................................................................. Slioolal Wiltor
T i DEMPSEY .......... • •...................................Circulation Manager
W M GIBSON...............Schonloy 0211—Advertising Manager
B. BROODY.................................................................Assistant Business Manager
‘ EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS
Estello Garibaldi Aimee Pharo J. M- Goss
Wilma Stinor N. C. Wesor I'- M- McClelland
Carol Folght V. B. Smith M W. Oay
Mai garet McFu.ll f- H. Harris C. A. Landest
kosomary McCambrldgo E. O. Johnson R* jLepper
Nora Willetts K. Fulmer J- N. «Co nley
.1. A. Foller A* ^ Carson Holllnshead
ATIILl'JTIC CONTRIBUTORS 
Holen Corrao G. E. Jacoby J. Christoff J. F. Harris E. C. Plummer
' BUSINESS ASSISTANTS
D. Moskovitz, J. W. Metro, P. Edlo, R. L. Samlroclc, A. Grodnor, L. Bar- 
brow, A. Perroton, Lee C. Osborn, E. L. Reevos.
The Editor-In-Chief 1s responsible for the policy of this paper; the 
Managing Editor for the make up.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed. 
Signature will bo withhold if desired. All nows items must be in the student 
post olllce before 4:30 Thursday.
Tartan Olllce—Room 5-A, industries Building. Olllce hours—Daily 12:30- 
1:20.
WERE IT NOT , . . .
Were it not for the work ol; the compiler, there would be no 
songs collected to make up the Song Book; were it not for the work 
ol! those who wrote the songs, there would be no songs to collect. Were 
it not for the Student Council who cave their Jhuincial backing and 
whole-hearted support; were it not for the unselfish work of the 
members of the Tartan stall: in making up the book, editing, arrang­
ing contracts, and developing the sales campaign, there would still 
be: no book. The project is the result of the work of all of these, all 
working together, all striving toward the same object—that of put 
ting on the Campus the Carnegie Song Book.
I«Vom now on, however, it will bo the Student Council to whom 
wo can give credit for the full development of a song book policy 
The present Student Council deserves much credit for its broad­
minded policy in turning over to the Carnegie Tartan the responsi­
bility of seeing that the first edition was printed and sold. The Tar­
tan performed its work nobly. Its three-day campaign was a sue 
coss. Now the Tartan returns the project to the Student Council 
with the earnest liopo that a ’definite policy of future editions be 
Worked out and enriMcd through. The work of the Carnegie Tartan 
is completed; its sl;nfi! will now resume its normal activities; although 
many of its mombers have volunteered to aid tho Student Council in 
any further Song Book plans.
On tho reading ol! tho sales report at the last mooting of the Stu 
dent Council it Wits shown that nearly all the copies of the first edi 
tion had been sold. Tho financial report showed expenditures nbout 
equal to the receipts, limiting the first sale price ol! the books a cost 
prico basis. The Tartan Committee rocommendod a boost in price 
to fja.fiO per copy to put future editions upon ;i bettor financial basis; 
but opinion in llm Council seemed overwhelmingly against this. The 
committee showed whore similar books at other schools wore sold at 
$2.00 and brought out tho 'fact that many overhead expenses won
eliminated on, the first campaign that would com«' ........ future edi
tions. This question will bo definitely decided at the noxt looting 
of the Student Coniic.il at which time tho committee will report on 
possibility ol’ putting out a second edition bol’oro Campus Week.
THE FINAL DORMITOllY SERVICE
One ol! the many important phases ol’ V. M. A. work will « 
its season this coming »Sunday afternoon, when tho Dormitory Chapel 
moots. This final mooting will bo hold in Scoboll Hall at 2:00 I*. M. 
and will bo in the nature of a question box, when Dr. McMillan, Stu­
dent Pastor of Sluidysidosido PlroKbytorian Church, will attempt tc 
answer questions oil religious subjects. It is hoped that a large gath­
ering will, meet Dr. McMillan.
A word or two might not be amiss regarding these meetings. 
This particular one happens to be. the last of a series conducted by 
the Y. M. C. A. every Sunday afternoon throughout the present 
school year. Mr. Davis has worked hard, and it is mainly through 
his efforts that the gatherings liavo been intensely interesting and 
instructive.
Among the many speakers who have appeared were: Mr. John 
son, an alumnus of the University of Pittsburgh; Mr. Hartman, Prof. 
Kirk-Patriek, Prof. Dennison, Prof. Dibble, Prof. Swanson. Dr. Mc­
Millan lias spoken a number of times, and has always proved most 
interesting.
It is expected that these meetings will be permanently estab 
lislied as an integral part of dormitory; life next year, for there is no 
doubt but that they can and do perform a great good.
On many occasions Miss Helm, Dormitory Matron, has served tea 
in her apartment after the service, and a very enjoyable social hour 
was spent.
STUDENT CALENDAR^
APRIL 1
All Fools’ Day.................:...................................All School Assemblies
APRIL 3
Graphica Banquet..................................................6:15, M. M. Cafeteria
APRIL 4
Girls’ Senior Bail.........................................................9:00, Rittenhouso
APRIL S
Student Council Nominations .........................................................11:30
Queen of C. W. Nominations......................................................... 11:30
APRIL 10
Inter-frail Formal.............................................................9:00, Schonloy
APRIL 13
Easter Vacation Bogins.
APRIL 22
Classes Resume.
MAY 15, 1G, 17
Campus Week,
MAGGIE MURPH SOPHS
OUT TO TAME PLEBES
(Coutlnuedy From Pago One.) 
classes ¡went the rounds.
The whole affair was brought to 
a climax, when, at 4:30, the Sophs 
seized two unruly little girls, and in 
much the same impressive manner 
which fraternities used on certain oc­
casions, tried to teach them a lesson 
of two.
The plebes retaliated by trying to 
capture Edith Warren, the Sophomore 
president, on Friday and prevent her
AND THAT’S THAT
The song book has como out and 
been sold out. Most of the students 
found tho necessary dollar to get one 
of the guides to Campus music.
Life In tho dorms will bo more 
bearable now. They’ll have tho music 
when they sing.
The disadvantage Is that everyone 
will try to sing.
By Campus Week, every one will 
bo singing "Como Along to Tech."
Tho taxicabs must have had a 
sweet time at tho Arts Ball.
Thought they were tanks, or some­
thing like that, dim big tho lawns In 
front of tho school.
Then they may have had to turn 
out to avoid running down some of 
tho erstwhile Chinese.
Some of them were so anxious to 
see tho costumes that they tried to 
drive In tho front door. And wo don’t 
blame them.
Six fraternities report broken look­
ing glasses from the breakfast after 
tho bull. Draw your own conclusions.
Appoint Committee Sweepstakes Will be 
For Senior Week Run Saturday, May 17
To Hold a Strictly Senior Tea - Change is Made for Benefit 
Dance Soon ! of the Alumni
Wo hear that there will be from 
three to six now first year students 
In the Science school shortly1.
Tho Science School cat Is going to 
have kittens.
Line up on the right for tho cigars. 
Congratulations may bo sent to the 
Science School cat, Cliom Lab, Car­
negie Tech,
Reservations for tho products may 
bo made at any time.
Girls’ dorms take notice.
Tho Maggie Murph Soplis came to 
life with a bang last Thursday and 
took tho Plebes into camp by a two 
nothing score. They don’t say exact­
ly what they did to them, but the 
fact that they took them into the gym 
for about two hours Indicates that 
they did plenty.
Friday tho Sophs had to take tlielr 
president to and from class to pre­
serve her for tho Hop.
She carried a police whistle to 
blow in case of emergency.
She blew it for practice once, and 
tho policeman who guards Squirrel 
Hill came down, three ours later, all 
out of breath to find who needed 
help.
Well, Science. Industries, Arts, 
how about it?
The Senior hats have appeared, 
tho variation In color-is magnificent. 
From a dull gray, like tho color of 
tho football players after a day In 
the mud, they vary to a beautiful 
light robin-egg blue.
The shapes give full play to the 
Imagination of the owners. From 
Napoloanlc creases, they go to Chi­
nese skull caps, depending largely 
upon tho shape of tho owners head.
When they turn tho brims down, 
they look like disconcerted pickpock- 
ots. But when they turn the brims 
down half way around, they look 
llko •— well, choose your own adject- 
Ivo. Tastes differ.
Those hatfi have got tlie distinct­
ive drOHB buiff running around school.
The Junior Commercials are going 
to wear whlto knlqkors — til tho 
school gol.B to work on them.
Tho Junior CIvlls uro going to car­
ry around bridge girders.
Tho Science Sophs will sport olive 
branehos, while tho Industries sophs 
will load around doves with blue rib 
bons,
Tho Plobos will wear chips on their 
shouldors, and dare anyone to knock 
them off.
Elections for tho Quoon of Campus 
Week will bo hold noxt week. Wo’rc 
nil sot to hour tho cries of "fake1 
which will soon omanato ¡from all 
schools, This In the only election in 
tho school where overy ono can vote, 
and bo Sure to have their votes cor 
roctly counted, and yol, they kick.
Girls will bundle the ballots in 
nil four schools.
Don’t bo afraid to vote. They won’t 
bite, or try to sell you a Shilling, Just 
go up and talk nice; but don’t try 
to stuff tho ballots. We’re off all 
rough stuff in this election.
Tho Queon of Campus Week must 
be kept clean. Her election must be 
absolutely fair and above board.
Now don’t mess up the works by 
trying to vote more than once; think 
before you vote; pick the best girl. 
This is serious.
With all this glorious spring wea­
ther, we are naturally moved to song. 
Almost wrote a poem for this issue, 
but we came too before the editor 
caught us.
How the so-ever, good poetry is al­
ways appreciated, and we will print 
anything good which the students 
may write. Understand this is not an 
invitation, it’s a dare. If you have 
nerve enough to send in some of this 
stuff, we will tempt providence and 
run it, if it is rotten enough.
front attending (ho 'Sophoinpro Hop, 
Nows that troublo was browing leaked 
out, however, and tho sophomores 
were prepared. Edith Warren was 
armed with a police whistle and when 
that whistle blew things flow but tho 
sophomore president attended tho 
Sophomore Plop.
To anticipate what the future is 
going to be is a difficult problem. 
But one thing is certain — this whole 
affair has pepped both Soph and 
Plebe classes to a sky limit, and has 
increased threefold that elusive thing 
called class spirit!
These things are strictly barred: 
odes to a girls’ eyes, or anything else 
of hers; poems about bursting buds 
dittys about Math profs; anything 
about love, or anything else connect­
ed with it; don’t kid the girls, don’t 
razz tho boys, and don’t uso the word 
"neck”, say “pot."
Somoono It talking about plautlng 
trees along tho cut, two ouch yoar. 
By tho time the present. Juniors 
graduate, they’ll bo walking botweon 
two linos of noblo oak trees, to and 
from the Science School.
Won’t It b'o nice when we havo a 
primeval forest between tho cut, and 
Maggie Murph. The Plebes and Sophs 
can play Indian and Cowboy botweon 
classes.
We’re all wild to bo thoro when 
tho girls dig tho holes; tho rost is 
easy.
In wour years, wo’11 havo signs up, 
“Don’t, walk on the trees”.
In twenty years, “Don’t feed or 
annoy the animals”.
In a hundred years, “Danger, be­
ware the wild women."
The Alumni have gone to sleep 
again. Won’t someone kindly write 
a letter, so as to get them riled.
CAMPUS PERSONALITIES
CHARLES CHARLEY LEEDS
Senior Week activities havo been 
launched with tho recent appoint-! 
ment of a committee headed by E. R. I 
Patton. Tho first meeting Is to be 
held this week In order to have 
plenty of tlmo to develop the various 
affairs of tho week successfully.
Plans aro under way to obtain 
Commencement Invitations of a new 
and more appropriate type than has 
been used heretofore. Sometime in 
April a strictly Senior tea dance will 
be held to giro the members of the 
graduating class a last chanco to be­
come acquainted. All Seniors are 
requested to attend if at ull possible.
The committee appointed is as fol­
lows:
Arts School—Arthur Brace, Vince 
Roy.
Science School—G. L. Sullivan, 
Ellis Robertson.
Industries—Art Reese, R. J. Wepp- 
ner.
Murg. Morrison—Crace Moore, Jo- 
hepliino Gibson.
This year the interfraternity sweep­
stakes will be held on Saturday 
morning, May 17, at 10:00 a. m. It 
will be preceded by the girls’ 
sweepstakes at 9:00 a. m. This 
event Is being held on Saturday in 
stead of Friday, in order that more 
of the aiumnl may have an oppor­
tunity to see it. Two handsome cups 
have been donated by the Alpha Tau 
fraternity having tho best designed 
racing car. In case that the beet 
designed racing car wins the race 
the cup for design will go to the 
fraternity having the second best 
designed car.
A complete set of rules and regu­
lations will appear in the next issue 
of The Carnegie Tartan. These are 
a few points which should be re­
membered. The car must weigh six­
ty pounds and have pair wheels. No 
freaks, such as ships, fish or cigars 
will be considered for design and 
will not be allowed to participate in 
the race.
THE GARDEN PARTY
(By Kathreine Mansfield, New York: 
Alfred A. Knopf.)
The Garden Party marks the cli­
max of a short and brilliant career. 
Katherine Mansfield’s short stories 
began to appear in the New Age in 
1911, and were hailed as the fore­
shadowing of great literary ability. 
Her power and her scope continued 
to broaden until she had Avon for 
herself a high place in the world of 
English letters.
‘The Garden Party,’’ published in 
1922, at once met with the most en­
thusiastic praise. Katherine Mans­
field, however, had little time to en­
joy tho adultation she had won, for 
she died in January, 1923, at the 
age of thirty-four. Thus, the book 
we speak of aa marking the climax 
of her career is still little more than 
a foreshadowing of the phenomenal 
heights which she might have at­
tained.
The stories collected under the 
title “The Garden Party,” are de­
lightfully novel and refreshing. They 
seldom have any plot. Their charact­
ers are invariably real and- interest­
ing. But their warmest charm lies in 
the whimsical way they have of deal­
ing with details. Little things are 
hold up for ,us to see, aro petted 
and fondled and smiled upon, all 
with a faint suggestion of irony to 
provont any effect of unwarranted 
exaggeration. The figures of speech 
used aro delightful. Usually they 
aro novel and unexpected; always 
they aro truthful. 1
“Tho Garden Party” Is a book 
to bo read word by word, hut that Is 
not to say that it: Is at all a pretty 
book. The author had all of life in 
tho focus of her thought. Sho had 
a wealth of material at her finger 
tips. But it is the Individuality and 
beauty which her own vision has 
given this mutorlul that has won 
for her work such genuine and wide­
spread approval.
THETA XI WILL GIVE 
SMOKER FOR FACULTY
Thota XI Fra1.orn.Ity will give a 
smoker tonight for mombors of the 
faculty. The hours aro 7: ¡10 to 9:30. 
All faculty men are Invited.
This Is tho flrBt tlmo that, such an 
affair has boon attempted on tho 
campus. Professors to whom tlio 
subject has boon broached have ex­
pressed themselves as heartily in ac­
cord with tho project. Tho smoker
will give tho faculty man tho op­
portunity to renew his own college 
days and to bocome acquainted with 
tho student as ho is in his social 
hours.
It was considerations such as those 
mentioned that led Tlieta XI to make 
the venture. The success of the
event is being watched with keen 
interest by the other fraternities. If 
the faculty responds, many other
affairs of like nature will be held 
this spring.
PI SIGMA TAU
INSTALLATION FRIDAY NIGHT
APRIL FOOL PARTY TO 
BE HELD BY M. M. GIRLS
Margaret Morrison girls and mem­
bers of the faculty will gambol in the 
Rec. Hall from 4:30 until G:00 Tues­
day afternoon. The annual function 
this year is to be an April Fool Party. 
Plans have been perfected to insure 
a jolly afternoon for everybody.
First and foremost, it is to be an 
informal tea — you all know what 
that means — dancing and food. The 
committe has secured the services 
of our Campus orchestra to provide 
the necessary harmony for the occa­
sion. Amusement will be supplied by 
an extraordinary variety of stunts; 
participants will represent each sepa­
rate department of Margaret Morris­
on. The faculty, also, will perform; 
their contribution is sure to be some­
thing different. An appropriate prize 
will be awarded to the group that 
presents the cleverest skit.
Vari-colored balloons and stream­
ers will decorate the Hall for this 
occasion.
Students and faculty so rarely have 
the opportunity to mingle on equal 
ground that the April Fool Party is 
sure to prove a delightful affair. The 
following committee has charge of 
arrangements for the tea. Faye L. 
Glass, chairman; Grace Adams, 
Miriam Bond, Bernice Rentz, Char­
lotte Drake. Mary Willis, Barbara 
White, Carol Foight.
TAXI CABS PLAY AUTO POt-O
AFTER DRINKING COCA COLA
(Continued From Page One.) 
the right and left pedal extremities 
of some sweet mama, but when they 
are etched by a 33x0 rubber shoo right 
in the middle of the front lawn — it’s 
different. 'Something’s got to be done 
about it — and you can’t spank a 
taxi.
Various suggestions have been 
made — the most plausible and rigli't- 
oous being that tho excavations be 
usod as tho beginnings of a cavern­
ous grave to houso the new mons­
trosities which someone inologantly 
dubbed “senior hats.” At present our 
most ardent suggestion is along those
Bcllefield 
Presbyterian Church
Bcllefield and Fifth Avenues. 
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D. D.t 
Pastor.
11 A.M. and 8 P.M.—Sermons.
10 A.M.—Men's Bible Class.
4 P.M.—Westminster Guild.
5 P.M.—Livingstone Class.
7 P.M.—Christian Endeavor.
Dr. K. McMillan, Student Pas- 
'tor, teaches Men’s Class, Guild 
and Livingstone.
Tech students always welcome.
Continued From Page One.) 
fact that all the girls walked in at 
twenty-eight minutes past seven. 
For this unusual and gratifying obed­
ience, the men promised to initiate 
gently so no bones were broken nor 
glasses smashed when the Pi Sigma 
Taus, with gleaming faces and bur­
nished pins adorning their drefeses, 
sat down to the banquet which sol­
emnized the event. Ray Kellar spoke 
a few words of welcome and advice 
and explained that the name of the 
honorary comes from the initial let­
ters of the publications on which girls 
work, Puppet, Shilling, Tartan, and 
Thist le. Mr. Greenhood, of the Eng- j 
lish faculty of Science, spoke on the ; 
honor of tho journalistic profession j 
and how fraternities helped to main- j 
tain high standards. He also added j. 
a fow ’ favorable criticisms which ! 
heartened tho editors of ono niaga-! 
zlno at loast. Teasdule Barney men ! 
tlonod practical ways and moans and ' 
mapped out roughly tho course that! 
It would most profitably follow.
The Initiation remains as a unique | 
ovont. in this years history at Tech, 
and if tho fraternity can continuo as 
successfully as Its initial meeting it 
will assert an influouco which can be 
a very positive help to Carnegie.
The Vagabond Club
OF THE 
WESLEY FOUNDATION 
OF PITTSBURGH 
An organization of Pitt and 
Tech students for social and re­
ligious fellowship.
Regular meeting, Including 
supper, every Sunday evening, 
5:30 to 7:30.
WESLEY HALL
3904 FORBES STREET
They work better when someone is 
asking about them.
Carnegie Clans should be getting 
ready to migrate bodily to Pittsburgh 
for Campus Week.
It’s the least they can do. Come 
around and meet the boys for a few 
days. Also the girls.
F. C. S.
for Spring
A variety of styles for 
the new seazon, plezantly 
fresh and refreshing, 
wil be shown by 
D. T. Kirkpatrick at
SKIBO INN 
TODAY AND 
FRIDAY, APRIL 4tli
Stores lnNewYork,Brooklyn,Newark 
nnd Philadelphia — Address for Mail 
Orders, 121 Duane St., New York City
“I consider my department the 
best in the school,” says Professor 
Leeds, Head of the Department of 
Machinery Production. “My staff of 
twenty-two men work in perfect 
harmony, and the Machinery Pro­
duction department as the largest 
teaching staff of any department in 
Carnegie." Two of the meh now on 
Prof. Leeds staff, H. L. McKee and 
T. A. Du Shane, were members of the 
first class to come to the Carnegie 
Technical Schools. McKee is now 
Assistant Professor of Mechanical 
Drawing and Descriptive Geometry 
and Du Shane is instructor in Auto­
mobile Maintenance and Operation.
Prof. Leeds has a large picture in 
his office of the first class of stud­
ents who came to Carnegie. The 
picture is dated September 2G, 1905, 
just, ten days after the school was 
officially opened. Buddy Overend 
now graduate manager of athletics, 
was also a member of this class, in 
which there were one hundred and 
twenty students.
Prof. Leeds came to Carnegie Tech 
in August 1905, the seventh man to 
be appointed to the staff. “There 
were only a few instructors at that 
time,” be said, “and all the students 
had each instructor. We were just 
like one big family; we all knew 
each other.” Prof. Leeds served his 
apprenticeship with the Big Four in 
Cincinnati, where he spent eighteen
j years as machinist, draftsman, and 
j'engineer. From 1892-95 he attended 
; the Ohio Maclianics Institute at Cin- 
j cinnati. Prior to his coming to Car- 
I negie he spent three years at West*
1 inghouse Electric and Manufacturing 
| Company in the Research Engineer- 
i ing Department.
"Prof. Follows, whom I knew in 
| Cincinnati was instrumental in my 
j coming to Westinghouse,” Prof. Leeds 
! said, "and later I was instrumental 
in Follows coming here.”
Prof. Leeds is greatly interested in 
j his work here at school and spends 
i no time on other work. He started 
the Society of Industrial Engineers 
here and is always working for the 
good of the students, not only in his 
department but in the entire school, 
and for the good of the school. Those 
who attend chapel regularly will al­
ways see Prof. Leeds there.
Prof. Leeds is the author of several 
textbooks: One on Engineering
Drawing is used in the courses here 
at Carnegie. He has also wTitten a 
high school text in Mechanical Draw­
ing and a trade school text on the 
same subject.
Beside his interest in engineering 
work Prof. Leeds takes a great inter­
est in camping and outdoor life. He 
spends his summer vacations camp­
ing in the Atiirondacks, where he has 
spent a great deal of time hunting, 
fishing, and mountain climbing. He 
is an enthusiastic lover of nature and 
enjoys studing bird life and flowers.
FASHIONS
April first, we shall have a delight­
ful chance to laugh at other people’s 
folly. The School of Drama presents 
a quaint and clever social satire of 
the time of our granparents, FA­
SHIONS, by ANNA CORA MOW ATT, 
under the direction of Miss Anna L. 
Dice. The play will be costumed ac­
cording to the period in which it was 
written, 1845; so that if the satire 
bites too near we may all quite com­
placently refer it to a generation 
not so wise as ours, with the consol­
ing reflection that all fools, April and 
otherwise, flourished in times less 
enlightened than the twentieth cen­
tury. At all events, the play will give 
us some two hours of good fun which 
has in it enough wit and wisdom to 
keep it alive another half century.
ALLENE GREGORY.
Why be annoyed by a crippled or 
sick fountain pen when it can be 
promptly repaired by Singer Pen arid 
Gift Shop?
lines but with modifications. Why 
waste such good sepulchral space on 
inanimate objects when there are 
any number ’of good deserving living 
skeletons around ?
FIRST UNITARIAN CHURCH
Corner Morewood and Ellsworth 
Avenues
Sunday Morning Services 
11:00 o’clock.
L. Walter Mason, D.D., Minister
A Sunday evening gathering 
of Young People at the 6:30 So­
cial Unit Tea, followed by an 
interesting program, should be 
of interest to students.
The place you have been look­
ing for
THE OAKLAND RESTAURANT 
3711 FORBES STREET 
Our Motto: QUALITY'-SERVICE
NO one smokes 
Melachrinos 
without liking them 
— for their quality 
instantly wins ap­
preciation.
ORIGINAL
MELACHRINO
"The One Cigarette Sold the World Over”
Through Earthquake and Fire
This Otis Elevatorstands amid theRuins of theSAGAMiYA LS’ENSOBAFDYinYoKOHAMA.
OTIS
Engineering Experience of over seventy years in 
Vertical TratiSportation is at your Service
ELEVATOR • COMPANY
Offices in AO Principal Cities of the World

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, APRIL 1, 1924THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
J*PLAID ATHLETICS
On the Plaid Screen
E. C. FRAZIER
TRACK TEAM WILL 
TRY PENN RELAYS
RADICAL CHANGES IN FOOTBALL CODE
Four radical changes in the football playing code, all intended to speed 
up the game and increase its versatility, were adopted a little over a week 
ago by the National Inter-collegiate Football Rules Committee at its annual meeting.
The first of these changes is the abolition of all kicking tees, and moving 
the kickoff to the center of the field. The evident purpose of this change is 
to put a great premium on this feature.
It sounds well, to hear the rules experts advance ¡methods for improving 
the game; but we, as laymen, confess to a genuine regret at the passing of 
the kick. It has always given us a mighty thrill of anticipation to watch the 
players line up for a ldckoff, with the pigskin resting safely on. a tee at just 
the proper angle for the kicker’s toe. And our enthusiasm and spirit soared 
with the ball to ecstatic heights as it left the kicker’s toe and sailed upward 
and then downward through a perfect arc into the waiting arms of some unit 
of the opponent’s machine.
We fear that under the new regulation, part of the glamor and beauty of 
the kickoff will be lost td the spectator. So many kicks will be muffed, so 
few will travel in the high, wide arc toward the opponent’s goal, that little 
of the thrill which now accompanies the start of an offensive will remain.
The committee is composed of very capable men. They are sincere in 
their desire to better the game. But untiL we see the new rule in actual 
operation, there will be in our mind some doubt as to the infallibility of 
their judgment. We like the spectacular beauty of the old kickoff.
Other rules made by the committee provide that the try for point after 
touchdown be made from the three instead of the,' five-yard line . This rule, 
in the opinion of the committee, will tend to make the play more versatile. 
And discourage tielays, the penalty for extra time-outs has been increased 
from two to five yards. As before, it remains for actual playing condition to 
test the judgment of the rules committee. We will go along with them, how­
ever, on all except the change in the kickoff rules.
MANAGERSHIPS OPEN
The 1924 track team has a very good coach, plenty of would-be track 
and field performers, and—a dearth of assistant managers. It is not our pur­
pose to laud the advantages of going out for a managership. The contact 
with active men, the zest of competition, the opportunity of making a letter 
are attractions so obvious as to need no enumeration.
But the factor of service to Alma Mater may pass unobserved. Perhaps 
more than in any other sport, the spirit of doing something for Carnegie is 
the motive power which sends Freshmen out to qualify as assistant track 
managers. Track is not extraordinary in the number of trips made by the 
team, nor does the manager always receive the glory that attends the foot­
ball managership. His lot is often hard, his work seemingless endless. Truly 
it is an opportunity to render service.
At the present time, positions are open for several Sophomores and 
many Freshmen. Any who are ambitious to do their bit for Carnegie Tech 
may have their desire fulfilled by reporting any afternoon at the Field House 
at 4:30 to Manager Ellis Robertson, or to his first assistants, M. Scrimgeour 
and E. C. Frazier.
INTRA-MURAL FINALS
Alpha Tau Omega, Pi Kappa Alpha and Scobell Hal are now fighting for 
the basket ball supremacy of the Intra-Mural Basket Ball League. The pres­
ent series, the finals, is exhibiting the best competition of the fraternity-dor- 
mitory season and we offer it as the foremost sport attraction on the cam­
pus at ¿lie present time.
It is interesting to note that the track meet for .the fraternities and dor­
mitories is about to take place.: The competition will be doubly attractive 
due to the fact that less than a half-dozen men in school are ineligible to 
take part.
The rules are printed elsewhere on this page.
READ THE ELIGIBILITY RULES!
The recent changes in the scholastic eligibility rules of the school are 
to the effect that if a man* is eligible at the beginning of the semester, he 
cannot be made ineligible by mid-semester grades, unless declared on pro­
bation by the faculty. The full text of the rules is published this week, and 
we urge every person who is in activities to read them carefully.
JUDGE STEFFEN, FOOTBALL HE­
RO AND JURIST, FEATURES 
IN CHIVALRY ROLE.
(Continued From Page One.) 
cum was both pig-headed and obsti­
nate, and realizing that it would be 
difficult to demonstrate verbally the 
futility of damaging an auto crank 
to say nothing of the suspect’s head, 
placed his two broad shoulders be­
tween the striking group and called
time out.
“After customary delays the arm of 
the law appeared, and Judge Steffen, 
having somewhat forcibly fufilled his 
judiciary capacity, turned the con­
testants over to the executive 
branch.”
The account does not state that 
Judge Steffen went back to bed after 
his exercise, nor does it state that 
lie married the widow Slocum and 
they lived happily ever after. How 
could it, it was only a Chicago paper.
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Co.
Member Federal Reserve 
System.
Capital......................$300,000.00
Surplus.....................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $5,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
DAVIES and HUGHES
oMEN’S WEARj
3615 FORBES STREET 
Next To Strand Theater
422 SOUTH CRAIG STREET 
Craig At Forbes
OPEN EVENINGS
Howdy Dykeman is Entered 
in Two Mile Run at Phila 
Marathon
The opening gun of the 1924 track 
season is not far off. Three weeks 
from tomorrow night, Howdy Dyke-1 
man will board the Pullman for Phil-1 
adelphia, and the next niglit will find 
the relay team embarking in tho 
same direction upon a sally which is 
destined to briug glory to the Plaid.
Dykeman’s event, the two mile, 
takes place on Friday April 25, while 
the relays are not disposed of until 
the next day. The personnel of the 
Tartan quartet is not yet decided 
upon, but it is known that Coach 
Halferty is considering among others, 
Danny Kramer, Skinny Humbert, and 
Fred White. Five men will be taken 
for the relay event, fn addition to 
the Coach, Manager Robertson, and 
the Dean (Bert Munliall).
And now a word about the Plebe 
team.
The Varsity team three or four 
years hence will be composed of the 
plebes who come out now, and have 
the grit to stay out, practicing every 
night. Any man with a sound body 
can be developed into a track man 
in time, if he will stick to it. Tragic 
men are developed, not born.
Coach Guy Halferty urges every 
eligible plebe in school to report 
for the Freshman Track Team at the 
Field House any night after school. 
You will be supplied with equipment. 
We want you, whether you have had 
past track, experience or not. Thirty 
have reported so far; three times as 
many should be out.
The Freshman Team has four 
meets scheduled:
May 2, Sacred Heart Academy.
May 1G, Pitt Freshmen.
May 24, Pitt Intercollegiates.
May 31, Sliadyside Academy.
ASSISTANT BASEBALL
MANAGERS APPOINTED
The following assistant managers 
were elected at the Athletic Coun­
cil meeting March 12, 1924:
First assistant baseball managers: 
Howard Joynt 
F. C. Hoenniger 
David G. Garber 
Second assistant baseball mana­
gers :
Karl S. Lindauer 
R. D. Gaylor 
R. A. Bookmeyer.
Only Puppet can do that.
0,nce more we pause to reflect! 
Surely the Judicial Department in 
Chicago is strong and how could a 
little force be applied with more 
effectiveness? Not every judge has 
played football nor has every cop. 
Let us havo more football!
A great many universities and col­
leges in the country have been pub­
lishing lists of eligible bachelors, 
since this is leap year. Many girls 
have availed themselves of the op­
portunity of reading these adds, 
wherein tho best merits of each bach­
elor is stated. In this way the girls 
are enabled to learn of the good 
qualities and the little courtesies of 
the men which they» are, entirely un­
able to obaorvo" in any other way, 
even upon close acquaintance.
ijmrnmwm;
BE A NEWSPAPER 
CORRESPONDENT
With the 
HEACOCK PLAN 
and earn a good income while 
learning; we show you how; 
begin actual work at once all 
or spare time; experience un­
necessary; : no canvassing. 
SEND FOR PARTICULARS 
Newswrlters Training Bureau 
819 Amherst St., Buffalo, N. Y.
ABILITY 
The ABILITY of an Insurance 
agent or broker is proven after 
a loss and the result of the loss 
adjustment Is the foundation of 
his future success. At this time 
personality and friendship are 
forgotten. Skill, knowledge and 
service count.
Put Your Insurance In Safe 
Hands.
JOS. P. FISHER AGENCY 
Established 1886 
PITTSBURGH 
Commonwealth Building 
Court 0554
“What a whale of a difference 
just a few cents make ! ”
-all the difference
between just an ordinary cigarette 
and — FATIMA, the most skillful 
blend in cigarette history.
BASE BALL SQUAD WILL 
PRACTICE OUTDOORS NOW
Now since better weather has ar­
rived, Coach A1 Irwin of the baseball 
team, plans to call out candidates for 
the infield positions in a few days. 
It is known that there are quite a 
few men in school who have had 
baseball experience, and a large 
squad is looked for.
Coach Irwin is highly pleased with 
the results of the indoor1 battery 
practice, which has been held daily 
for the past month. Amoug the 
catchers, Diffley, Hable, Schell and 
Cupp, have been showing up well. 
Cappe, Conrad, Mefort, Bassett and 
Lynch are displaying the best form 
among the candidates for the pitch: 
ing staff.
The assistant managers are getting 
the Schenley Oval diamond in shape 
and expect to have it ready by the 
time the candidates are called out.
Girls’ Basketball Banquet 
Held at the Rittenhouse
The girls’ annual basket ball ban­
quet was held last Thursday night at 
the Rittenhouse. The honor guests 
included Dean Brown, Miss Spurrier, 
Miss Winchester and Russell. Mary 
Heilig, President of tho Athletic 
Board, was toastinlstress.
Dean Brown gave a timely talk on 
“Tho Athletic Girls” and Miss Win­
chester presontod an intertaliiing 
Sketch, ‘Man, Woman, and Athletics.’
Tho presentation of tho basketball 
cup to the Freshman Class, who wore 
champions this year, was tho foaturo 
of tho evoning. Miss Spurrier pre­
sented tho cup to Noll Kroolfng, 
captain of the Freshman Class, who 
received it in their name.
BASKETBALL FIVE 
HAS FAIR SEASON
!INTRA-MURAL TRACK RULES
Coach Ben Lubic Will Pro­
bably Return Next Year; 
Eight Letters Given
In tho hours of darkness 
Foil some drops of paint,
Anon tho Freahmon labored
To malto those snme drops faint.
The basketball season just closed 
could be called anything but a huge 
success, yot one would have much 
difficulty finding under-graduutos or 
well-informed alumni complaining to 
any great extent that it was not 
what it should have been. On the 
contrary, Coach Ben Lubic made as 
creditable a showing as could bo ex­
pected under the circumstances and 
along with the team deserves a world 
of praise for the wonderful spirit and 
good sportmansliip displayed by tho 
Tartans throughout the season.
Basketball has always had hard 
sledding at Carnegie Tech, but it 
seems that during the past winter ad­
ditional misfortunes cropped out 
which hampered the work of the 
Slcibo cagers considerably. Starting 
the season with only three veterans, 
Captain Jimmy Anderson, Molirnian 
and Dorsey from the squad of the 
previous year, practically a now team 
had to be built up. This Coach 
Lubic proceeded to accomplish, and 
through tho team lost to Waynesburg 
and State College, it won from Thiel 
and looked in a fair way to be de­
veloping fast. When tho end of tho 
first semester rolled around and Pitt 
was met in the opening game of the 
now gymnasium, the team looked 
like a world boater. Despite the fact 
that Pitt won, the Sklbos outplayod 
their ancient rivals and really de­
served the victory. It was at this 
time that old man hardluck took a 
crack at Carnogio's future floor suc­
cesses. Toots A mans, stollar running 
mato of Anderson’s at forward, was 
declared Ineligible for future competi­
tion; Ohio Newman and Dorsoy 
dropped out of tho running on ac­
count of prosslng scholastic work and 
limited time, while Buckets Boll could 
not regain tho good graco of tho 
eligibility committee In time to play 
baskotball. To make mattors worse, 
tho team had an enforced lay-off for 
almost throo weeks duo to tho scarlot 
fevor epidemic hero, during which 
tlmo thero wore 110 gatherings such 
as at baskot ball gamos, although 
classes wont on as usual.
For this reason tho team did not 
play enough to keep In first class
This year tho Intra-Mural Track Meet will bo held Tuesday and Wed1- 
nesday, April 8th and 9th, at 4:30 p. m. This was decided at a meeting of 
tho Intra-Mural Track League who met with Mr. Fink Thursday. The idea 
in holding the moot earlier this year than has been the custom previously is 
to got the men out in the hope of uncovering now material. The men quali­
fying In this meet will be picked for the Varsity and Freshmen teams. No 
events will be run after Easter vacation.
All men who arc registered day school students and who have not pre­
viously been awarded a letter In track (docs not include Cross Country) aro 
eligible.
A mmi may enter as many events as he desires.
A man cannot compete for more than one organization. He will specify 
this organization to the clerk at the start.
The number and arrangement of events will be handled by Coach Half- 
erty and a committee. Announcement later.
Fivo places to scoro. First—5 points. Second—4 points, etc.
There will be a Relay Race Wednesday afternoon. Five places to score. 
First—10 points, second—8 points, etc.There will be PRELIMINARY heats in the 100 and 220-yard dashes. All 
other heats arc to be run against time. Accurate timers will officiate.
Cups will be given to winner of the meet and for the relays. Medals 
will be given for first three places in each evont.
Mr. Moses and Mr. Fink will have direct charge of the meet.
L. E. Yoder was elected president of the Inter-Mural Track League and 
Scrimgeour was chosen manager of the meet.
The next meeting will be Tuesday, April 1, at 4:30 in the Y. M. C. A. 
.club room. All fraternities and organiaztions are urged to have their repre­
sentatives present as it is important.___________
condition until lato in February. 
Midge Matter took tho place of 
A mans at forward, and did excellent 
work, improving with each game. 
Toward tho end of the season tlio 
Tartan cagers really lilt; their stride, 
though at times during the latter 
part of February they displayed some 
real basketball. Wash-JofC was com­
pletely outclassed by tho Sklbos in 
the first luilf of the game in tho new 
gym, but our boys could not keep up 
the furious pace they had set with 
the result that they were nosed out. 
Tho same thing happened against 
Wesmlnstor and West Va. Wesleyan.
The climax of tho season, liowover, 
came when Pitt was soundly trimmed 
at tho Motor 'Square Garden by a 
82-25 score. Tho Tartans wore out 
for victory, and would not bo denied. 
The way they performed that night 
completely wiped out memories of 
previous doioats. Naturally, a ro- 
actlon sot In by tho time St.ato 
Collogo got lioro for tho final game 
of a long drawn-out season, and 
Carnoglo could not bo expoctod to pul 
up as good a game against Statu 
under tho conditions.
A word about tho men who gavo 
thoir host for baskotball at CarnoRlo 
Tech during tho past soason might I 
not be amiss. Heading tho list comes 
Captain Anderson, who was perhaps 
ono ol! the most closely guarded play­
ers in the Trl-Stato district this year. 
His uncanny ability to oago long 
shots made him ¿oared by all rivals. 
This Is Anderson’s last yoar on tho 
loam, and his loss will bo koonly 
felt. .Timmy Robortson dovolopod
INTRAMURAL BASKETBALL
The intra-mural basket ball oeaoon is over, and tho championship r.orlen 
is now In progress to decide the champion of tho three leaguos. Tim three 
teams.competing are: Scobell Hall, Pi Kappa Alpha and Alpha Tau Omoga.
Each of the teams mentioned Is champion of its roapootlve league.
The championship series ntarted last night with Alpha Tau Omega and 
Pi Kappa Alpha as the attraction, the remainder of tho oohodulo bolng:
Tuesday, April 1—Alpha Tau Omega vs. Soobcll.
Wednesday, April 2—Pi Kappa Alpha vs Scobell.
Thursday, April 3—PI Kappa Alpha vs. Alpha Tau Omega.
Friday, April 4—Scobell vo. Alpha Tau Omega.
Saturday, April 5—Scobell vs. Pi Kappa Alpha.
Each of the games will bo played In the field house at eight p. m. on 
the day ochcduled.
The past season developed some of tho boot competition soon on tho 
campus since intra-mural banket ball started. Tho winners In tho throo 
leagues were In doubt up until tho last game in oaoh league. Aoaola was 
always In the running In tho National League, bolng boaton only by Alpha 
Tau Omega. Kappa Sigma Rho at tlmec showed iiomc real basket ball. 
Some Idea of this team's strength may be galnod from tho fact that thoy 
forced A. T. O. to win their Inst game by tho close’ score of 19-18.
In the American League, Scobell Hall romped away to victory, winning 
their last game over thoir closest competitor, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, by tho 
score of 21-7.
In tho Federal League, PI Kappa Alpha always soomod to havo the uppor 
hand. The only time that their position was really contested was In tho hard 
fought game with Welsh Hall, which Pi Kappa Alpha won, 28-24.
The outstanding features of the season were: tho strength of the dormi­
tory teams in general, and the fine support which was given by tho girls, 
who were chaperoned by Miss Helm, at the last few games.
The final standing of the various teams in the three leagues Is as follows: 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Results of Games Played,
Delta Upsilon........................................39
Kappa Sigma Rho ..........................¡54
Alpha Tau Omega ....................... ...10
Beta Theta Pi ......................................25
*Delta Uiisilon .................................... 2
Alpha Tau Omega ...............................10
Acacia ................................................... 7
?Forfeiture.
League Standing.
Team. Games.
Alpha Tau Omega.......................................... 7
Acacia ................................................................ 7
Kappa Sigma Rho ........................................ 7
Beta Sigma Rho ............................................. 7
Beta Theta Pi ................................................. 7
Delta Upsilon .................................................. 7
McGill ................................................................ 7
Delta Chi Rho ................................................. 7
McGill ..................................................... G
Delta Chi Rho ...................................... 2
Acacia ....................................................11
Kappa Sigma Rho ...............................10
Delta Chi Rho .................................... 0
Kaçpa Sigma Rho ...............................18
Beta Sigma Rho .................................. 4
w.L.Pet.
701.000
01.8137
43.572
43.572
43.572
25.280
10.143
07.000
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Results of Games Played.
Scobell ....................................................21
Woodlawn ...............................................15
Sigma Alpha Epsilon .........................30
Sigma Alpha Epsilon ..........................30
?Sigma Alpha Epsilon ....................... 2
Woodlawn ..............................................19
Sigma Epsilon Phi...............................19
Kappa Sigma .......................................17
?Forfeiture.
League Standing.
Team. Games.
Scobell ...........................................................(.. 7‘
Sigma Alpha Epsilon ................................... 7
Woodlawn ......................................................... 7
Kappa Sigma ................................................... 7
Kappa Epsilon ............................................... 7
Sigma Epsilon Phi ......................................... 7
Iota Sigma Delta ........................................... 7
Delta Phi Delta ............................................. 7
Sigma Alpha Epsilon ........................ 7
Kappa Sigma........................................14
Kappa Epsilon .....................................17
Delta Phi Delta ...............................
Iota Sigma Delta ................................ 0
Sigma Epsilon Phi .............................10
Iota Sigma Delta .................................12
Delta Phi Delta ...............................
W.
7
(I
5
3
3
3
L.
0
1.
2
4
4
4
ß
7
Pet.
1.000
.857
.715
.428
.428
.428
.143
.000
FEDERAL LEAGUE 
Results of Games Played.
Pi Kappa Alpha .................................40
Delta Tau Delta .................................28
Sigma Nu ............................................21
Pi Kappa Alpha .................................28
Hondcrfum............................................. 5
Theta XI ................................................19
Theta XI ................................................12
Welsh .....................................................24
Sigma Nu ............................................29 Henderson..............................................12
•Sigma Nu .............................................. 2 ¡Boss ....
•Forfeiture.
League Standing.
Team. Games.
Pi Kappa Alpha ............................................. 7
Sigma Nu ......................................................... 7
Delta Tau Delta ............................................. 7
Welsh ................................................................ 7
Theta Xi ........................................................... 7
Delta Mu .......................................................... 7
Boss .................................................................. 7
Henderson ....................................................... 7
DANCEBABY OEMIBU
$10.00 and $25.00 
SLTTAR. ‘AEPY” .,LD
SUITE 010, HERSCH BUILDING 
339 FIFTH AVENUE 
Grant 9493
AFFELDER and SMITH
1717 MURRAY AVENUE 
Hazol 5149 Noar Forbou.
Compliments
or
Skibo inn
very fast for his first, year out for 
the varsity, as did Gil Reed. Mefort 
put up his usual good game at cent­
er, while Molirnian and Beede ably 
took good care of the guarding posi­
tions. Midge Matter did valiant work 
at forward and can bo counted upon 
for next year.
Tho outlook for next spason is 
much more encouraging, inasmuch as 
Donohue and Amans will be back In 
school. These two boys along with 
Mattor will bo able to talee caro of 
tho forward positions, while Molir- 
man, Reed, Robortson will ho avail­
able for guards. Mefort and Reod 
will again bo oh dock for contre, with 
the possibility of Newman being out 
for tho team next year.
As yot no captain has boon elected 
for noxt season, nor 1ms a coach boon 
appointed, though it is thought that 
Coach Bon Lubic will return.
Tho letter men recently announced 
by tho Athletic Council aro: Ander­
son, Molirnian, Boedo, Rood, Robert- 
son, Mefort and Bittner, student 
manager.
SENIOR GIRLS TO
HOLD BALL FRIDAY
(Continued From Pago Ono.)
Tickets will bo sold by tho moni- 
bors of tho collimiti,oo In elmrgo olì 
ilio affair. Tlio members aro: Jane 
Howard and Cora Pitcairn, of Arts, 
Fayo Glass, .Inno Markoll, Lillian 
Groonwalt, Miss .Tosophlno Gibson, 
Margaret McChanahan, and Elizabeth 
Lowls, chairman.
C. M. STAUFT
3901 FORBES STREET 
Artists' and Engineers' Mate­
rials, Stationery and General 
Supplies for Students.
Sprin
~i/ie master drawing pencil'
Damon—
“Mow conic you’re getting along 
ho well with Professor Roberts?
He told us this morning that 
that last effort of yours was u 
master drawing,"
Pythias—
“It couldn’t have heen other 
wise. Didn’t I use ‘the inuutci 
drawing vanr.il't”
In Later Life
Early habit» are ondurlng 
onou. Bogin now to acquire 
those of saving and accumu­
lating money.
An acoount with tho Mellon 
National Bank will givo you 
a uplondld start. Porulstont 
savings will develop financial 
Indopondonco. Tho oxperl- 
enoo, to uay nothing of tho 
monoy Itself, will In later life 
provo Invaluable to you.
Como In and talk It over.
Mellon National BankPittsburgh, Pa.
WRSSLEYSAfter Every Meal
It’s Ihe longest-lasting confection you can buy 
—and it’s a help to di­
gestion and a cleanser 
SO lor tEie mouth 
a- and teeth.E
Wrlglcy’s means 
bcnclit as well as 
VJV* pleasure.
w.L.Pet.
701.000
01.857
52.715
34.428
34.428
25.280
16.143
16.143
gaewodder & Svons
Hats and Men’s Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Square East Liberty

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, APRIL 1. 1924
ALUMNI PAGE
The Department of Physics
By Profooßor Harry 8. Howcr 
in the Engineering College a four 
year / cötiree for Physicist» provide« 
training for a limited number of »tu- 
dents who desire more knowledge of 
fundamental principle» than can bo In- 
cl ¿fled In an engineering course.
Students In tho Department of Phys­
ics take mathematics, physics chem­
istry, ongllHh, economics, and other 
gonoral subjects Jn tho various engi­
neering courses. Then, Instead of 
pursuing the specialized engineering 
subjects In the upper classo», tho 
physicists take advanced work In Me­
chanics, Heat, Light, and Electricity 
und Magnetism.
Young men who are happy In the 
pursuit of science and mathematic» 
but do not have a special preference 
for any particular engineering course 
may' find thut tho Physics Course of­
fers the sort of curriculum that they 
may pursue with greatest profit.
Tho number of men following Phys­
ics as a profession lias Increased very 
rapidly In tho past ton years and the 
ileld Is not yot filled. Those who pur­
sue Physics as undergraduate» have 
many holds of endeavor open to them.
They may, for Instance, continuo 
their work as graduate students or 
go at once as Physicists with Indus­
trial or research organizations. Grad­
uate» of tho Physics Course at Car­
negie have been doing work of both 
kind». Among some of them are:
C. M. Blackburn '21, who after be­
ing Assistant Professor at the Univer­
sity of Montana for two years, lias 
now entered tho University or Chicago 
as a graduate student.
Paul Hoover '21, who has boon at 
Harvard University for two year», and 
lias sinco spent some time in Berlin, 
Vienna, and Paris.
H. Dietrich ’20, has been In charge 
ol! an engineering crow, engaged Jn 
Automatic Telephone Installation
["THE TELESCOPE j
Among the, visitors to the Alumni 
Olllco this we ok wore Captain ID. G. 
Hamilton about whom a long article 
¦was printed Jn the Carnegie Tartan 
recently. it will be recalled that Mr. 
Hamilton, who is nn olllcor In tho 
Foreign Legion of Franco, expected 
to return homo soon. Ho is now homo 
on leave, French leave, as it wore, 
nnd may possibly bo able to arrange 
affairs no that he will attend Harvard 
'University for a year be Coro return­
ing to Franco as an army instructor.
Other visitors wore :
Basil Greenlaw, i, '2:1.
.J. Barry Gotham, 15, ’23.
Carl Gross, Ili, M.7.
J, B. Zimmerman, E, ’22.
Tlio alumnl'R response to ihn offer 
made by tho Oarnoglo Tartan giving 
l.heni first opportunity nt the first 
Bong Books was dooklodly poor, Out 
ol! IMQO alumni, only about I 10 thought 
It worth while to send In for copies, 
There will In' no opportunity now for 
any complaint on tho purl, of alumni 
though, Tho students have met us 
ovor half-way, Wo did not moot them.
Next wook’ti Issue will he sent to 
nil alumni ol' Ournoglo thus giving 
them n good chance to make up their 
plans ahead of time before the sea­
son of (Jiimpus Wook rolls around, At 
tills writing the old tower ol! Ma­
chinery Hall Is l)iitiled hi sunlight 
nnd the M. M.’fl aro crowding the 
Walks, afflicted with tlio annual dis­
ease <>i! spring fever, it soemij as If 
Campus week has <¡01110 much nearer 
since the weather. ciclir,od up.
The Alumni is going to homo a 
tjpoclal number for Campus Wook too,
work for some tlmo now.
Conrad Stone '20, I» Chief Physicist 
In the Maeboth-JUvuns Co. Glass Labo­
ratory.
Stelnborgor '21, I» a graduate stu­
dent at Harvard University.
Paul Crago '22, 1» designing signal 
equipment in Kentucky.
13. K. Owen "¿<\, I» with tho Du Pont 
Powdór Company engaged In ro- 
Hoarcbos 011 motion picture illrn».
Others, among the former students 
In the depurimeli!, are at the Unlver- 
»ity of Jlllnols as graduate students, 
ono 1» a Radio Engineer with the 
Westinghouso Co., one Is Jn charge of 
the determination of hout ,P4IPT in 
aeroplane engines at the Bureuu of 
Standards, another 1» doing Photo­
metric research ut tho same Bureau.
It will tini» be seen that tho held 
I» wide and Interesting,
The rapid growth In tho demand for 
graduate» has made It lmpo»»lblo for 
U10 Department of Physic» to supply 
men for many very Interesting posi­
tion», ,
Such roquosts a» those for: "u man 
to study arc-welding at u salary to be 
named by the department", and “A 
man to worit on magnetic hammers”, 
a man to assist Jn glass research’’, 
have met thè samo fate as the re­
quests for graduates to fill positions 
in the government service.
The increasing number of students 
majoring in Physics at Carnegie and 
over the entire country is duo to the 
increase Jn tho industries for men 
with this type of training.
In general, the work of a Physicist, 
differs from that of an. Engineer, in 
Iliache is most ue»ful on problems in­
volving now idoas and methods, rath­
er than tlio application of established 
procedure.
The Departmont of Physics is in a 
position to prepare a limited number 
of students with scholarly instinctB 
for useful and Interesting careers.
When tho Tartan ran the column 
"What and Who They Did"?
The following was taken from u 
September l»»ue in 1918. (Speaking 
of how student» spent tho »ummor.) 
Robbins sold Alumnium ware 1n Nov/ 
York Slates. Book and Silver spent 
the summer in a cottage by Lake Chi 
—II. A. rtoel spent the summer hunt­
ing rattle snakes in Colorado. Billy 
Buhl toured tho city of Pittsburgh 
with satchel in hand collecting 
pennies from penny slot machines. 
Richie Lawrle hud u job counting the 
number of louds of earth dumped in 
a hole. To rollve tho monotony he 
was transferred to the place where 
tho earth was takon out. Alan Bright 
worked for tlio same company and 
kopt Richie company. George Bennett 
entertained himself and others by 
giving house parties at the cottage 
on Lako Chautauqua. Roy Light, it 
seems, did nothing but go to house 
parties some one else gavo.
BLESCH, ’22, NOW 
IN CLEVELAND, 0.
Recent Grad Obtains Good 
Job With Utilities Cor­
poration
and there are rumors that the Carne­
gie Pin may be out by that time.
We have boon waiting for some 
time past to hear from member's of 
tho classes who expect to havo a 
reunion during Campus wook. Got the 
old Gang together. Wo ought to have 
Bomo sort of a contest. AVhat is your 
suggestion?
Former Baseball Star Now 
Runs Insurance Agency
Wo huvo in Pittseburgh ono of 
Cnrneglo’S adivo Alumnl and ono 
who I» a loynl- supportar and booster 
l'or bis Alma Mator. .1. P. Flsiior, 
hoad of tho Jos. P, Flsher Insurance 
Agoncy, attonded Carnegio Night 
Sohool in 1 DOT» and '00. 'Starting in 
190(1 ho attonded throo years day 
sohool lnavlng Carnegio In 1908. In 
1010-17 Mr. Flsher look a nlght courso 
In Psyehology, Wlillo in sohool ho 
pluyod 011 tho Froshmnn baseball 
tornii and wiis a meni ber of tho Delta 
PhI Omoga l’ratornlty.
Bilico lonvlng scliool Mr. Flsher has 
boon oonnootod wlth tho Insuranco 
gamo in whloh ho In dolng a vory 
goort business.
Mr, Flshor’s agoncy In wlth nomo 
of tho moni; rellable concorns of Ilio 
country. Ilo ohould rooolvo our 
patronage.
Timi, ho reads thè Tartan was 
sliown by dlsousslon In a rooont 
lettor to tho Alumnl Editor ooncorn- 
Ing tho "Do You Recali'' coluinn.
The Mechanicals are stepping 
ahead as is shown by a '22 graduate 
who now havo charge of the Cleveland 
office of the Combustion Utilitie 
Corporation of Cleveland, Ohio, with 
all of Northern Ohio as his territory. 
Although Charles A. Blesch has been 
out of school only a short tlmo ho 
has been moving ahead rapidly. 
Following graduation he spent con­
siderable time with the National Tube 
Co., at thoir Lorrain plant, and just 
rocontly wont with the Cleveland 
company
While in school, Blesch made an 
enviable record. 1-Ie carried his 
studies witli credit and in addition to 
tills was quite active 011 the campus 
in different lines, being football 
manager in 1921 and on the track 
squad of ’20, '21, and ’22 receiving a 
letter in this sport. I-Io also served 
two years 011 tho Science Senate and 
011 their Junior Prom committee. lie 
was a member of the Signm Nu 
Fraternity, belonged to the Druids, 
Delta Skull, and tho Dragons.
( Mr. Blesch camo to Carnogie in
1 J917, but lator joined the Marinos 
with whom I10 saw sorvice Jn 1918 
and ’19. ReturnIng, lie gruduatod 
with tho class of ’22.
Flapper: "Why did your pop say
I always reminded him of a tele­
scope t
.Shlek: Because you’re always so
easy to seo through and you always? 
magnify everything so.
Dress Suits to Rent
Evening Clothes of QUALITY
Correct and. Up-to-tlie-ininnte 
—and—
Largest stock between N. Y. and Chicago.
Whittington Dress Suit Co.
6002 JENKINS ARCADE, PITTSBURGH 
Smithfield 0341 Hours—8:30-5:30
If you knew
what ageing in wood 
does for pipe tobacco
Even I,ho finest Kentucky 
Burley Tobacco (and that’s the 
kind we use) is green and raw 
whonit’spulled. You tiould hardly 
smoke one pipe load of it.
And here’s where Velvet is dif­
ferent: Our ageing takes out that 
rawness and harshness, and 
makes the tobacco mild and mel­
low and gives it fine flavor. Age­
ing in wood does what no artificial 
treatment can do.
Remember—Velvet Tobacco aged in wood.
HHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH ,GUCRMQQ V .OS’X AP2’CCP 7P1
SCIliNCl; RECORDER TO 
ENTER MATRIMONY SOON
The marriage of Miss Hilda Liss- 
l’olt and Albert Felix Elohhorn will 
ta ko plaoo on Saturday April 5, at 
Mins Llssl’olt’s home in Marlpoo 
utroet. Tills wedding is of particular 
interest to Carnegie Tech, bocauso 
the future bride and groom wore both 
well known 011 tho Oarnoglo Campus.
Miss LISHfoll; has boon for four 
yearn In the rocordlng olllco of tho 
Sohool of IDnglneorlng, nnd Is ono of 
the most popular and woll-Ukod 
young women In I.I10 departmont 
Minn UsHfolt studied voice culture 
In tho College ol! Fine Arts and spont 
two years In Now York studying 
music, Mr, Elohhorn was formerly a 
student In tho College of Industlos.
Miss Tdnufolt’s brother, .1. Fred Liss- 
felt, will glvo tho brldo away and 
she will bo attended by .,XI Mota 
Sclinoe. Victor Eichliorn will bo his 
brother’s host man. After tho wed­
ding Mr, and Mrs. Elchliorn will 
make thoir homo in Elizabeth, New 
jersey.
NEW ELIGIBILITY RULES
PASSED BY BOARD
(Continued From Page One.) 
eligible upon the removable of the con­
dition.”
During 1923-24, students satisfactori­
ly meet rule 4 by either having (a) 
150 or more quality points under the 
present marking system for the cur­
rent year, or (b) by having less than 
71 deficiency hours under the mark­
ing system for 1923-24 only, the tran­
sition from the old to the new system.
Under the regulations, a student 
who is out regularly for a varsity 
sport is excused from physical train­
ing, and secures credit for his varsity 
work in lieu of the physical training 
credit.
In the past, managers have oc­
casionally neglected to put on their 
eligibility lists the names of some 
students who were out for their 
squads, and 110 record was, therefore, 
in the hands of the Department of 
Physical Education when the time 
came to report grades.
in order <0 correct, this situation, 
U10 Doan of Mon, the Hoad of tho 
Department of Physical Education, 
and the Graduate Manager, lmvo 
adopted tho following plan, ol’foctlvo 
at 01100. (.1) ID vory student manager 
of a varsity »port must, hand into 
tho Office of tho Doan of Mon a full 
list of nil players and managers in 
his sport at, least: four weeks in ad­
vance of tlio first schodulod contost 
and weekly supplementary lists It 
additional candidates come out (2) 
a revised list, to bo handed in Nov- 
ombor 1st and April 1st, if tlio sport 
is in season nt that time, (3) and a 
revised list to be handed in February 
1st and June 1st for the sports 
operating at those dates.
The University News of University 
of Cincinnati announces the inaugu­
ration of a column of advice to the 
lovelorn. Any question pertaining to 
the affairs of the heart may be re- 
fered to this column for an answer.
SOUTH AMERI­
CAN REVISITS 
CARNEGIE TECH
Barboza, Former Carnegie 
Man, Gives Ideas on Trade 
Relations
PROPOSES NEW PLAN
Occasionally in this hurry and 
bustle of life we chance upon a per­
son who attracts and holds our atten­
tion. A 7nan of this type happened 
to drop into Carnegie Tech one day 
while on a sight seeing tour of Pitts­
burgh.
Down in Pernambuco, South 
America, a student by the name of 
Leonidas S. Barboza entered a Milita­
ry School in Rio De Janerio, after 
completing his high schoolworlc and 
a term in preparatory school. Not 
being enthusiastic about Military 
Training, Barboza came to New York 
in 1916 and from there he went to 
Rensselear. Staying only a month, 
he returned to New York and decid­
ed to make a new start.
With his mind set on Des Moines, 
Iowa, he set out, but on ills way 
through Pittsburgh decided to stop 
over a day. In the tour of the city 
he found Carnegie Tech. This, he 
states, was a most fortunate accident 
as it completely changed liis future 
plans. As the fall term was about to 
open, Barboza registered in the 
Machinery Production Course in the 
College of Industries where lie made 
rapid progress.
Fate had more in store for Braboza 
than a Technical Education. 1-Ie was 
destined to meet his future com­
panion in the school where romances 
rise and flourish. Carnegie not only 
gave him an education but a wife, 
included.
After his wedding in February of 
1919, Mr. Barboza returned to Brazil 
and entered his Father’s exporting 
business. This business he has follow­
ed since with success.
Recently 011 a visit to the school, 
Mr. Barboza gave some vivid des­
cription of South America and its 
opportunities. Mr. Barboza explain­
ed what he thought were the reasons 
that tlio United States has not secur­
ed and held the bulk of South Ameri­
can trade. He also told of tho 
wonderful opportunities presented by 
his country to tlie Technically Train­
ed man who is willing to go down 
there, learn the language and customs 
and 1b not afraid to work. Brazil, 
I10 states, with her great mineral 
wealth which has hardly boon touch­
ed Is in tlio early stages ol! develop­
ment.
One ol! Mr. Barboza’s plans to 
stimulate trade with South America 
is the carrying of our products in 
American bottoms and nvoid tho 
round-about method which is employ­
ed now. Tho triangular method of 
trade, ho states, is inefficient nnd 
does not bulhl up a demand for 
American stamped goodB. Ho states, 
that our most urgent need is for 
Americans to’ go there,- loarn thoir 
ways and customs and cator to them, 
also to deliver our goods directly to 
the consumer. The United States 
Manufacturer does not get Brazilian 
orders because he does not undor- 
stand Brazilian people and their 
customs.
Mr Barboza lias made many friends 
at Carnegie and the boys aro anxious 
to have him come around again and 
give them more first hand informa­
tion on his country when more of 
them can hear him.
DRAMA STUDENTS v
TO PRESENT ‘FASHION’' * 
BY ANNA RITCHIE v
Next Tuesuday, Wednesday, *> 
Thursday and Friday the Drama * 
Department will present “Fash- 
1 ion’’ by Anna Cora Mowatt ?:« 
Ritchie in the Little Theater, at •> 
S:15 p. m. Two matinees—Fri- v 
1 day afternoon at 4:00 p. m., and <• 
Saturday at 3: 00 p. m.—will be «5* 
• given, no tickets being re- 
¦ quired. ?><
CAMPUS COMMENT
(Continued From Page One.) 
more says:
“Without names the column would 
soon become a weak exchange 
column, or an intellectual copy of 
Beatrice Fairfax’s suppressed flock 
for the love-lorn!”
Jack Harris, Metallurgy, ’26, says: 
“It’s up t;o tho fellow, himself, I 
think, whether lie wants his name 
published. Most men are quite will­
ing to stand behind thoir opinion, 
and 1 think most of them will.”
“If a man isn’t willing to glvo his 
namo along with his opinion, it isn’t 
worth a wholo lot," “Vosuvius" 
Blair, Senior Englnoor. Names that 
students recognize aro bound to 
further thoir Interest."
“Eddie” Ball, Senior Enginoor 
says:
“Any honost opinion should have 
tho name attached.”
Fred Smith, Junior Engineer says: 
“By all means the names should be 
printed. When a man knows his 
name is to appear with what he says, 
he will think deeper about it, will 
weigh his words, so that the result 
is a clearer thought-out opinion."
It looks to me though the names 
were going to continue a feature of 
the column. Horray!
That the full 1000 song books were 
sold in a three day campaign put on 
by the Tartan?
That next year every Plebe must 
own a song book and be able to sing 
most of the songs.
That Campus week is only six 
weeks away?
That an epidemic of Spring Fever 
and Parkitis is spreading over the 
Campus.
That the enrollment is over 5000 
students.
That 300 studentB are enrolled in 
the R. O. T. C.
That Dr. Baker got the first song 
book off the press and then bought 
an additional copy.
PLAN TO BE HERE 
FOR CAMPUS WEEK
Campus Week Promises to 
Surpass All Celebrations 
of Former Years
The weeks are rapidly passing and 
consequently three days on the calen­
dar are assuming larger and larger 
proportions. You must have guessed 
—May 15, 16, 17... Are you making 
arrangements to spend those days on 
the Campus? If not you are going to 
deprive yourself of absolutely the 
fullest three days of enjoyment ever 
scheduled for you.
Campus week should mean more to 
the alumni than to the students. But 
does it? The students are already on 
edges waiting for it; the campus is 
full of hustle and bustle, and the 
committees are sparing no pains, for 
it is 110 longer a secret that this 
year’s campus week will so surpass 
all preceding ones as to put them 
entirely in the shade.
Campus week is primarily a home­
coming week for the alumni. During 
this week the students and faculty 
are free from all scholastic cares and 
can welcome the alumni in a fitting 
manner. It is the one week of the 
year, when we can mingle with 
friends of former years and revisit 
the scenes of many happy experienc­
es.
Many innovations will mark the 
celebration of campus week, but the 
old events you loved so well -will be 
repeated. If Dame Rumor prophesies 
aright, the campus week -Queen will 
be noted for her exceptional beauty, 
and the setting and costumes will be 
the most attractive ever used for the 
coronation.
If you have not forgotten your Al­
ina Mater, nnd if you Avant to show 
the student body that you appreciate 
their efforts to make this'week a 
week of real and lasting enjoyment 
to you, you will be 011 deck bright 
and early • Thursday morning, May 15.
The Department of Painting and 
Illustration
FIRST QUEEN
TO BE ELECTED
.NEXT TUESDAY
(Continued From Page One.)
It is interesting to note how our 
tradition of Campus Queen lias 
grown up. Remember three years ago 
the quoon was merely called “Queen 
of the Mardis Gras” and we let it go 
at that, and when last year some 
brilliant young Techito conceived the 
idea of naming her “Quoon of Camp­
us Week”, and his idea was con­
sidered good, and slio has remained 
our queen evor since; the ruler of 
joyousness and lovo-in-the-moonliglit, 
goddess of tho dance, despot of the 
hearts of men — a perfect royal la­
dy. This year, with so many well- 
known and good looking girls to 
choose from, it is going to be rather 
a tug of war to see upon whom the 
honor will be conferred.
We are positive of one thing. Tho 
girl will have to be passing fair to 
fit in with the setting planned by the 
committee in charge of it. Details are 
not perfected as yet, but from what 
is known, the ceremony is going to 
be the loveliest ever perpetrated at 
Carnegie; gorgeous in color, graceful 
in line, beautifully quaint in period 
of dress. The fortunate girl who will 
rule on this lovely stage will be chos­
en on May 13th, from among the 
three semi-finalists. On May 13th, 
then, the identity of our queen will 
be made known. Until then, all any­
one can do is conjecture, and it is to 
be supposed that there will be plenty 
of this, al least we hope so, for every­
one should be eager and willing to 
participate in the affair. After all, it 
is the votes which will determine the 
name of the queen, and votes should 
be intelligent, as women politicians 
are wont to exclaim.
The best thing for everyone to do 
for the next week is scrutinize care­
fully all the senior girls on the cam­
pus. We shall have them wear a 
sign emblazoned with the words 
“I am a Senior Girl”, for your con- 
venince. Then, on April 8, everybody 
will be prepared to pick fifteen from 
the number the college boasts of.
Watch for next week’s Tartan for 
tho list of names. They will be right 
011 the front pngo, tho entire group 
of thorn, and you will have all this 
wook to make the acquaintance of tho 
girls themsolvos. You can spot them 
easily enough. If you see a girl with a 
look in her oyo which says “I am a 
queen,” accost hor and inquire her sta­
tion in life. She may bo a Senior, or 
she may be a Plobo! At any rate, 
you’ll find out.
ASK SIGERPOOS IF IT IS AXIOM­
ATIC
How long should women wear their 
skirts?
You make me scratch my dome,
But I reply, with careful thought 
UNTIL THEY GET BACK HOME.
Illini.
The Department of Painting and I 
Illustration is concerned with funda­
mentals in the field- of pictorial art. 
A student who elects painting or 
illustration as a life work must be 
able to express himself through the 
medium of pictures. This requires 
the ability to draw and compose, for 
in the language of the painter, draw­
ing is the alphabet and design 
this is what keeps the world of art 
is the grammar. Our ideas 
of beauty vary and that is 
what keeps the world of art 
interesting for it gives us a chance 
to express the individual idea and to 
appeal to an individual audience; Our 
school aims to bring about the de­
velopment of the creative faculty 
through drawing and painting.
Applicants are admitted to the 
department after a trial week under 
instruction. This trial week is com­
petitive and only student who seem 
to be fitted for the work are con­
sidered. Two dates are open for those 
wishing to take the work in this 
trial week. The first comes during the 
summer school session, from July 7th 
to 11th, and the second the week be­
fore registration in the fall. Septem­
ber 8th to 12th. During the winter 
months Saturday classes are held 
for high school students showing un­
usual ability in drawing. S'ome of our 
good students come to us through 
these classes.
Admission to the degree course in 
the Department of Painting and 
Illustration requires four years of 
satisfactory high school preparation 
or its equivalent with not less than 
fifteen Carnegie units. This work 
should include preparation in the 
following subjects: English, 3 units, 
History (exclusive of U. S. History 
and Civic) 1 unit, Foreign Language. 
2 units, Electives, 9 units.
A number of scholarships and
prizes are available for students doing 
high grade work. One Founder’s 
Scholarship carries with it the re­
mission of the general fee. This is 
awarded annually to an upper class 
student on the basis of high scholar­
ship in the preceding year. Three 
Honor /Scholarship’ are awarded to 
Pittsburgh students entitling the 
holder to credit on the general fee 
of $100.00 a year for four years. This 
is open to freshmen only and award­
ed to seniors in the Pittsburgh high 
schools upon nomination from the 
school authorities. The Mrs, John L. 
Porter Prize of §100.00' is awarded 
each year to the student making the 
most progress. Other scholarships 
and prizes are given from time to 
time by private donors. Numerous 
pictorial competitions are offered by 
¡outside organizations each year. 
Sometimes these are made regular 
school problems. The Kaufmann Post­
er Competition which has just been 
held brought first place and a prize 
of $125.00 to a student of this de­
partment. Awards amounting to 
$100.00 were given this year by the 
American Red Cross for posters to 
be used in their Annual Roll Call 
Campaign.
The question is often asked if it 
is possible to make a financial suc­
cess from painting or illustration. The 
answer is undoubtedly in the affirm­
ative. Those who have been capable 
of building up a technical ability 
have at their command a very profit­
able occupation. The choice of a 
career of this nature should not, 
however, be used upon such shallow 
grqund. He who enters this field 
should carefully consider whether his 
liking for painting and drawing is so 
strong that is must be made a means 
of self expression. If it is and the 
will to work is present the chances 
of success are strong.
CLAN NEWS ]
THE ST. LOUIS CLAN
Two new additions to the St. Louis 
colony of Carnegie Men have shown 
up in this district.
Mr. Paul Iierreron and Mr. Anthony 
Ross bath Industries ’23 men. It for­
tunately happened so that Mr. Her- 
reron discovered Mr. Ross in East 
St. Louis where he is working for 
the American .Foundry Co. Anyone 
desirous of reaching Mr. I-Ierrerson 
can get in touch with him at 2144A 
C Street, Granite City, Illinois.
A little social gathering was held 
at Zeller’s residence, where it was 
discovered that its took more educa­
tion than they glvo at Carnegie Tech 
to get the drift of the ancient and 
honorable gamo of Mali Jong. It 
seemed to require a sort of C. P. A. 
ability to figure out wliat was won 
when and if one won.
Before departure a couple of Tech 
songs were bellowed to the tune of 
some old Carnegie records and to 
clear up tho misty eyes a discussion 
wns opened as to the old doings at 
Carnegie. This naturally brought up 
the story of the Morgan Dancers and 
how tlio Tartan scooped all the Pitts­
burgh papers by 12 hours on tlio 
pictures, resulting in the famous 
throe-edition-sale of Tartans.
It is hopod that a few more Car­
negie men will turn up in St. Louis 
so that a regulation Clan may bo or­
ganized. At present the members are 
scattered over three big states and 
cannot meet.
It is urgently requested that all 
Carnegie men in Kansas, Missouri 
and Illinois get in touch with Mr.
Zeller if they have not already done 
so.
For your information, Mr. Zeller’s 
address is:
M. A. Zeller,
2128 Railway Exchange Bldg.
St. Louis Missouri.
Former Mining Student
Legislative Candidate
Last week we told of one Carnegie 
man who has entered politics down 
in Kentucky. This week we are 
told of a former student who has 
entered politics in Illinois.
IT. W. Bradbury, who was a student 
in the mining course here has made 
rapid progress in the short time he 
has been out of school. For some 
time he was manager of one of the 
largest mines at Royalton, Illinois.
Last year, Mr. Bradbury went into 
business for himself and he is now 
president of the Bradbury-Scullin 
Coal Company of Marion, which 
operates two mines. Besides such 
activities Mr. Bradbury has been con. 
ducting small instructional courses 
from which over two hundred men 
have been graduated as better 
miners.
Recently, friends requested Brad­
bury to run for the State Legislature 
011 the Republican ticket and ho has 
consented to do so.
PLEBES WILL BE FOOLS
FOR ONE DAY ONLY
(Continued From Page One.) 
place of Poverty Day. It will have the 
same spirit, and it gives larger scope 
for'costumes. It is expected to be an 
even greater success than its prede­
cessor.
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF RETAILING
The School of Retailing trains for executive positions.
Merchandising
AdvertisingPersonnel 
T raining 
Finance and Control
Teaching 
» Service
Merchants are eager to secure trained men and women in these fields. 
SERVICE FELLOWSHIPS
Class room and store are linked closely together.
Illustrated booklet on application. For further information write— 
Dr. Norris A. Briscoe, Director of New York University School of Re­
tailing, 100 Washington Place, New York City.
John Hancock Said,
I
(IN 1774)
HAVE ever considered it as the indispensable 
duty of every member of society to promote, as 
far as in him lies, the prosperity of every indi- 
- vidual, but more especially of the community in 
which he belongs.”
Life insurance is inseparably bound up with the 
prosperity of every individual, family and community. 
It is a secure and prosperous business and satisfactory 
to the salesman in every way.
The 9P4W Y’WCPCM would like to interest a few 
ambitious men who graduate this year to make 9P4W 
Y’WCPCM selling their life work.
Statistics on college graduates who have entered 
life insurance place it at the very top as a source of 
income. Before making a decision as to your career 
it would be well to make inquiries of the “Agency Department.”
KarN ,WX2S’WCN 7PnE’WO1
DA NDCEDBY OMCCMIUSCLEEC 
Sixty-oneyears in business. Now insuring One Billion Seven Hundred. 
\\ Million Dollars in policies cn 3,250,000 lives
