n tartan
this week
TGIF’sfate page 8
Tenure explored 10
The Bookshelf 12
WRCT-FM schedule 19
Steelers come to CMU 21
March 5, 1974 Volume 74 Number 18Protestors Hit Tenure h&ss h& sd&ph
9 Unih C&urse:
by Rob Sim beck
Protestors solicit signatures from students passing
by Steve Correll
A handful of students staged a 
demonstration in front of Warner Hall last 
Thursday to protest university tenure 
policies.
The students picketed for over an hour, 
asking bystanders to sign petitions calling 
for a student voice in tenure and asking 
reconsideration of the dismissal of Russell 
Brignano, Bruce Travis and John Renaldo 
Participants and sympathetic bystanders 
formed a fluctuating group of about 20 
people at the height of the protest.
Organizers of the demonstration 
reported that about 300 people signed the 
petition that asked for a student voice in
by.
tenure, with lesser numbers signing the 
petitions that asked for reconsideration of 
the individual cases.
Dean of Student Affairs Earle Swank, 
who stood among the demonstrators and 
talked with students throughout most of 
the protest, said that university admini­
strators concerned with tenure policy are 
“willing to be talked to, eminently so.” 
C-MU President Richard Cyert will re­
portedly meet with H&SS student advisory 
committee representatives Friday to 
discuss grievances.
“Basically, we’re going to be paying 
$2,900 per year to come here and we have 
no say in who gets fired and hired,” said 
Kenneth Noble, one of the organizers of
8 Students Busted
by Sharon Curcio
Officers of the Western Pennsylvania 
Regional Task Force raided the C-MU cam­
pus at approximately 6:00 a.m. on Feb- 
raury 22, arresting eight students.
The officers raided Scobell Hall, More- 
wood Gardens, and some fraternities, and 
took those arrested to the Penn Hills police 
station for arraignment. Bond was initially 
set at $10.000 for each, but was reduced 
latei by another magistrate. Dean of Men 
Charles Williams helped the students 
arrange for loans to cover the bail.
The students had apparently dealt with 
and/or sold to local undercover agents over 
the past few months.
Both Ron Taylor, Head of Security, and 
Charles Williams, Dean of Men, said tliev
photo by Frank Stein 
the demonstration, when asked why the 
students were protesting. Noble is a fresh­
man majoring in Electrical Engineering.
Donald Irwin, the other organizer, said 
afterward that he feels the demonstration 
was “pretty successful” though inter­
mittent rain discouraged most people from 
standing for very long in front of Warner 
Hall.
“I think that in a lot of ways 
[complaining through formal channels] is 
less effective than a demonstration,” says 
Irwin. He said that people had complained 
about library hours in Senate for a year 
and a half but that action did not come 
until “one guy in Warner Hall” heard about 
continued on page 16
Dr. Erwin Steinberg, Dean of H&SS, has 
proposed a plan that would readjust many 
of the college’s 12-unit courses to 9 units.
At a February 21 College Council meet­
ing, Dr. Steinberg expressed the hope that 
the final decision would be made before 
the latest University catalogue, which is 
already overdue, goes to press. That de­
cision is tentatively scheduled for this 
Thursday’s College Council meeting.
The plan would probably change most 
service courses—those required for student* 
in other colleges-to 9 units. Many upper- 
level courses, workshops and seminar* 
would remain at 12 units. And Dean oi 
H&SS Steinberg suggests that the college 
should offer more courses carrying more 
than 12 and fewer than 9 units in order tc 
provide students with greater variety.
The college originally switched its cour­
ses from 9 to 12 units in 1969.
The call for a switch back to 9 unit? 
came partially out of a feeling that the 
“experimental” set-up of H&SS wasn’t ful­
filling all of its expectations.
Evidence was presented to the College 
Council in the form of two studies. The 
first, done by Susan Steinback, a Psych 
ology major, compared the 1969 response? 
of H&SS and CIT students to a College and 
University Environment Scales test. Signif­
icantly lower percentages of H&SS stu 
dents than CIT students agreed with such 
statements as “Most courses require inten­
sive study and preparation outside of 
class,” “Most courses are a real intellectual 
challenge,” and “Even in social groups stu 
dents are more likely to talk about their 
studies than other things.” Significantly
had no prior knowledge of the Task Force 
investigation.
Taylor explained that the Regional Task 
Force consists of policemen assigned to the 
narcotics detail from not only Allegheny 
County precincts but also from precincts 
throughout Western Pennsylvania. Taylor 
added that the head of the Board of Direct­
ors of the Western Pennsylvania Regional 
Narcotics Task Force is the sheriff of Alleg­
heny County, Eugene . Kuntz. He men­
tioned that possession of marijuana is a 
felony and punishable by at least one year 
or more, but he did not know what drugs 
the students had in their possession.
Taylor said that these raids may occur 
at any time without warning from city, 
state, county, or federal narcotics investi- 
continued on paqe 8
Gotta take they're gonna kick the door in again..
But if you've got a warrant I gu**ss you’re gonna come 
Busted down on Bourbon Street

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2-THE TARTAN—Tuesday, March 5; 197T
editor’s note
Friday, C-MU saw another great awakening—a mild tremor protesting 
tenure practices, a group of students asking that they have a say in the 
tenure decisions and that at least three decisions be reversed. It may be 
too much to ask for, but faculty and student dissatisfaction points to a 
need for change in tenure policy.
Something is undoubtedly wrong when a college votes unanimously in 
favor of a tenure position and the decision can be reversed by one 
administrator. And decisions have been reversed in both H&SS and FA.
That faculty and .administrators on the tenure committees have not 
read the publications of those up for tenure and yet weigh publications at 
least 16+ in the final decisions emphasizes the weaknesses of the present 
system and the urgency of a new one.
The tenure set-up is a practice initially begun as an honest attempt for 
fairness. In this goal it has failed. The university has only to admit that 
and then get moving on a more equitable solution.
Colleges within the university should decide for themselves who re­
ceives tenure and who does not. How can a FA professor vote on a GS/A 
tenure position or an MIS on an H&SS decision? When tenure is left to the 
appropriate college it will alleviate the ineffective committee to adminis­
trator chain.
The president and provosts ought to put a bit of trust in the individual 
colleges. Certainly if only a set number of tenure positions are available 
within a college's department, the college should decide who fills them, 
not an administrator who has never met the faculty member up for 
tenure, or read his publications, or talked to his students of his teaching 
ability.
Naturally, once the criteria for tenure is an established policy with as 
few open ends as possible that trust will be easier to impart. (A dear and 
concise policy statement would have avoided some of what appears to be 
unfair treatment this year.)
The procedure would simply let the decision be made within the 
college (where it belongs and where A Phi 0 ratings might be used in favor 
of faculty as well as against). The recommendations would then be passed 
to the provost, whose objections should have to be heavily supported. 
Monarchies after all went out some time back.
And who can better estimate the value of q faculty member to a college 
than those within it? Unless, of course, there is a quiet attempt to point 
the departments in a particular direction. Dr. Cyert emphatically denied 
that there is any attempt to phase out or reduce H&SS to a service college. 
If this is the case for FA, CIT, MIS, SUP A and GS/A as well, why not 
trust the colleges to decide for themselves?
Christine Infante 
Editor-in-Chief
\ .......................................... -
i „
ill tartan
News Editor;: Roti SimbecK 
Features kditor: Shelley Burhans 
Entertainment Editor: Susan Klein
News: Anthony Adler, Steve Correli, Sharon 
j Curcio, Jan Lindberg, Tom Kendig, Emily Rhein- 
jhardt, Tom Schwartz, Debbie Siegel, Barbara 
¡Witte.
Entertainment: Stacey Kimbell, Margie Strosser, 
Cathy Kinneavy.t\
Sports: Roger Geddes, Dave Girdany, Glenn 
Campbell Leslie Allen, Mary Kay Burak, Mary Jo 
Lhabala, Jim Litsas, Mike Pochan, Mark Schiff- , man, Ansley Klein.
Editor-in-Chief: Christine Infante 
Managing Editor: Gary Singer 
Business Manager: Lester Nathan
Sports Editor: Jeff Englund
Photography Editors: Ed Levine, Elliot Arons
Head Reporter: Debbie Siegei
Photographers: Bruce Edelston, Ellen Eddy,
Chris Farland, Nick Lardas, Elliot Popowitz, Rod 
Reilly, John Rose, Frederick Shamlian, John 
Shettel, Courtney Larson, Bryan Smith, Frank 
Stein, RicWerme
Layout: Louise LoPinto
Cartoonists: Ron Wiggins, Kitty Fischer
Copy: Mina Gerall, Sandy Preuhs, Cathy
Kinneavy
letters:
To All Senators in all Constituencies:
Come to the meeting today to vote for 
allocation of the TGIF budget. 1 have spent 
all last week circulating petitions to be 
presented at today’s meeting. The future 
sanity of the undergraduates of this 
university depends on you-today!
Bill Capps 
Chairman, TGIF Committee
The following is a letter of resignation sub­
mitted to President Cyert and reprinted 
here by permission of the author.
Dear Sirs,
I started working as a security officer at 
Carnegie-Mellon University on December 
1 1, 1962. At that time and for the next 
eight years or so, it was a very gratifying 
job. Our police force was one to be re­
spected and seemed to improve progress­
ively.
But these last three years have been a 
nightmare with each day bringing some 
new development which has made working 
there impossible. Therefore, I must hand in 
my resignation.
When Director Taylor came to the Uni­
versity, he said he only expected to be 
there for one year. That year has grown to 
a much longer time.- Many times incidents 
have come up and his reactions in my 
opinion have proven that he is much too 
excitable and over-reactive. They have 
made me sorry that he is a member of our 
security force let alone the head of it. In 
my opinion the security force has gone 
downhill and morale is so low that it is a 
wonder it still operates. I hope that the 
opinions of other officers will be sought so 
that something will be done to make work­
ing there better for them.
I will comply with the two weeks notice 
of resignation if you desire it and am sorry 
that the above job situation made my resig­
nation necessary.
Yours truly, 
Allen F. Johnson
Editor:
In recent Student Senate meetings and 
in this column two weeks ago, Lee Coop- 
rider expressed the opinion that college 
students should all live off campus, provide 
their own food and health care facilities, 
and fulfill their social, entertainment, rec­
reational, and cultural needs individually 
through the resources of the outside com­
munity. Education, like a job, is after all, 
only a part of life, to be dealt with on a 9 
to 5 basis.
During the relatively short period of 
time that one attends college (which can be 
an expensive proposition) I feel that a per­
son should concentrate a large part of their 
time and energy on getting as much as 
possible out of the college experience in 
the way of career, as well as broad educa­
tional, cultural and social development. 
Hassling with 12 month leases, sublets and 
landlords, shopping and cooking, cars and 
transportation, doctor bills, six-dollar con­
cert tickets (symphony, jazz or rock) and 
three dollar first run movies, can be a waste 
of time, money and energy that could be 
better spent.
Many students choose to take on these
responsibilities after they are oriented to 
the city and feel academically secure, but 
forcing these hassles on every new student 
would cause inconvenience, financial hard­
ship and even academic failure for many 
(assuming such a school was still able to 
attract any students). As long as a college 
can provide convenient and competitive 
housing, food, health and other services, 
they should, of course, continue to do so.
College students do have many legiti­
mate shared interests. By using available 
facilities, individual expertise and talent, 
and the economies of scale, the members 
of a college community can provide a vari­
ety of social, recreational, cultural, enter­
tainment and educational activities far bey­
ond the capability of the surrounding com­
munity or individual students alone. Be­
sides supplementing traditional academics 
and career preparation for college students, 
such activities can in some cases provide a 
stimulus for interaction with the outside 
community.
While the “college experience” may be a 
preparation for a career, it is not a mere 
preparation for life, nor is it just a part of 
life as Mr. Cooprider feels. The college ex­
perience is life itself. College life can be a 
most intellectually and socially stimulating 
kind of life, if a strong college community 
exists as a center of human activity as well 
as a center of education.
Stephen O. Lee
Editor:
I’ve devoted much thought recently to a 
letter printed in the TARTAN, concerning 
SRK’s Big Bite (a justifiably indignant 
thumb-bite at Stacey for her yellow 
journalism). And so, an idea-one dollar 
from each student, faculty member, green 
man, security officer, secretary, Tartan 
Grill manager, etc. would cover cost to 
open a campus Farmer Dave’s (I.D. re­
quired), with low prices and good eggs for 
all.
Any extra money can be donated 
towards saving Belle Reeve.
LB. P.
Editor:
I would like to take issue with an at­
titude which I find to be common on the 
CMU campus. That is that a dissenter’s 
beliefs are unquestionably right and that 
no one should be allowed to speak or act 
contrary to these beliefs.
This has been demonstrated to me re­
cently by two occurances. The first is the 
letter in the TARTAN condemning the ad­
ministration for allowing ROTC on cam­
pus. ROTC is not being forced on anyone; 
it is being chosen by mature students and, 
as long as this is so, the university cannot 
morally ban it from the campus. If one 
doesn’t agree with ROTC, one can opt not 
to take it (I did so), or discuss it with those 
who intend to join, but no one has any 
more right to forbid ROTC than the gov­
ernment has to ban classes cirticizing it.
The other matter is the deliberate de­
struction of anti-abortion material which 
one of my friends posted in Baker Hall for 
the information of any interested persons. 
If one feels abortion is a good and neces­
sary freedom, one can campaign in its fa*
3
* The Editorial Board of the TARTAN reserves the right to edit or withhold any copy that it 
‘ considers unfit for publication. Published every Tuesday during the academic year by the student 
government of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Deadlines are 12 noon 
for announcements, classified ads and letters {o the editor and 5:00 pm. for articles and display ads 
on the Wednesday preceoding the Tuesday of publication. Editorial and Business offices are located 
in Skibo 50. Telephone (412) 682-4557 or campus extension 656.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—Tuesday, March 5, 1974—Page 3
' news comment
The Cry of the 800
^ Student Senate Finance Committee has denied the students of this 
university the right to thank God it’s Friday
This week’s TGIF is the last of the regular series with a special end of 
the semester “bash,” financed by the programming fund, planned for the 
last day of classes. Approximately 600 people, a large percentage being 
CMU students according to my own personal estimate, attended this 
week’s TG.
TGIF’s present budget of 2,400 dollars has been eliminated by the 
Finance Committee from the Activity Board’s 1974-75 operating budget. 
^ If this recommendation is accepted by the floor of Senate, TGIF will not 
be continued next year.
Bill Capps, Chairman of TGIF, has spent the last week or so asking 
supporters of TG to sign a petition, requesting Senate to save the Friday 
afternoon dance. As of Sunday evening, 800 names appeared on these 
petitions.
The student activities fee is paid by all students, although some 
minority factions are trying to change this, and it is the duty of the 
guardians of this money, Student Government, to see that the money is 
§ used to its maximum benefit and for a maximum number of students. 
Although 15%, the percentage of CMU students attending last week’s TG, 
doesn’t appear to be a very impressive amount, it is higher than the 
percentage of students who voted' in the last Student Government 
elections (536 in all). A body whose own ex ¡stance is supported by less 
people is attempting to terminate TGIF.
The full body of Senate, during today’s meeting, has the chance and 
responsibility to reverse the decision by Finance Committee.
Gary Singer 
Managing Editor
H&SS Not Ready
The proposals have been made, the 
wheels are turning, and it’s very possible 
that on Thursday the final O.K. will be 
given to 9-unit H&SS courses. All personal 
feelings aside, it simply doesn’t seem that 
H&SS is ready to plunge ahead with this 
right now. The two-week period between 
the first public knowledge of the imminent
bers have the right to know beforehand, 
and if that means spending some extra time 
studying the matter, that time should be 
taken.
— Departments will decide for them­
selves exactly which courses stay at 12 
units. Will there be guidelines established 
by H&SS so that no conflicts arise, and so
change and the date set for the tinal de- that the switch comes about smoothly? Or
cision is simply not enough time tor an will departments grope blindly, experi-
intelligent consideration of all the possible menting with different set-ups, leaving the
side-effects of such a quick move. The student in the middle of a chaotic and
following problems remain to be worked uncertain situation?
out: -Prerequisite changes, departmental
— Faculty course loads-It has been sug- and college requirements for majors and 
gested by Dean Steinberg that at most graduation, and the effects of the changes
some faculty members will be teaching a on non-H&SS students must also be stud-
third course once every few semesters. This ied.
may be a realistic estimate. On the other All things considered, a change from a 
hand, with students taking 5 courses as a 12-unit to a 9-unit structure should be
minimum load, and new courses (6-units, carried out after the effects can be studied
24-unit) being added to round out the pro- and prepared for by everyone who will be
gram, and with a number of professors affected. If this means putting it off
leaving next year, isn’t it just as possible another semester or another year, it will be
that faculty members will be “asked” to worth the wait.
teach a third course much more often than Simbeck
that? If this is a possibility, faculty mem- News Editor
The following positions are available for 
1974-75 Tartan Editorial Board:
Editor in Chief*
News Editor 
Features Editor 
Entertainment Editor
Any fulltime C-MU student is invited to become a candidate for one of these positions. 
Please contact Christine Infante, c/o the TARTAN, Room 50‘or 52 Skibo, 682-4557, 
by March 13.
*1 year TARTAN experience necessary.
by Escherichia Coli
For those of you who can’t wait, here’s a preview of what you’ll be 
reading in the TARTAN of the future:
(V
March 5, 1984—Alan H. Upchuck, author of a novel that is currently 
number two on the New York Times bestseller list, has formally been 
denied tenure here at C-MU.
Upchuck had unsuccessfully contested the English department’s 
recommendation that he be dismissed. He contended that a time-honored 
policy in H&SS awarded tenure to professors who published more books 
than anybody else.
H&SS Dean Erwin Sidewinder explained, however, that this policy 
applies only to the publication of the same work in many different forms 
and places, not to the printing of many copies of the same work. 
“Upchuck’s seven million copies sold to date just don’t count,” he said, 
“though they would if he’d taken our advice and had each chapter printed 
in a different journal. ”
C-MU President Richard Cipher took a personal interest in complaints 
from students who claimed the dismissal was unfair. He spent several 
hours talking with one group of students. One of those students recounted 
his experience to the TARTAN:
“We told Cipher that we felt Upchuck was an inspiring teacher and 
should not be dismissed,” recalls veteran H&SS agitator Stephen Porkk. 
“He replied that we couldn’t possibly judge whether the firing was fair 
unless we knew the university’s reasons for doing it. We confessed that we 
really didn’t know why the administration decided not to tenure Up­
chuck, and we asked Cipher what the reasons were. ”
“Then he told us he couldn’t tell us the reasons because they were 
personal, privileged information. ”
Meanwhile, top administrators were puzzling over photostats of a $100 
thousand check made out to MIT by someone called Elliot Rosewater. 
Five C-MU administrators received copies of the check, which came in 
similar envelopes, each with an illegible Indiana postmark.
(2)
March 12, 1975—Student politico Ebenezer Fortran today announced 
plans to run for the student government presidency on the platform that 
would dose the campus to everyone except janitors from 5 p.m. to 9 a.m.
Fortran, a graduate student in computer science, became famous last 
semester when he succeeded in dosing the dormitories, the fraternities, 
food service, health services, counseling, security, and Dean Swank in a 
move to decrease the overhead incurred when the university tries to 
provide for a group of students the services that each individual could 
better provide for himself.
The TARTAN interviewed Fortran as he stood outside the keypunch 
room on the third floor of Science Hall. He was distributing copies of 
“The Fountainhead” to programming / students along with their midterm 
grades.
He explained that his 9 to 5 platform will restrict faculty and students 
to spending 40 hours a week on campus. “By letting people on to the 
campus after normal working hours,” he says, “we deprive them of the 
opportunity to go out and seek the cultural and other resources of the 
city. It’s time faculty and students stop regarding C-MU as a protective 
parent and go out and discover the real world. ”
“This artificial sense of a campus community bugs the hell out of me, ” 
he said, “and besides, it’s well known that if you show your face on 
campus at night then all the freshmen in your recitation section come 
bugging you for help with their homework. ”
Asked if the 9 to 5 proposal wouldn’t hamper the productivity of the 
faculty, Fortran said that the current stifling of individual initiative was 
far more of a drain. To illustrate this, he quickly constructed a model of 
the campus community out of silvered paper ashtrays and number 7 
knitting needles.
Asked about charges that he and his fellow Comp Sci graduate students 
exercise a disproportionate influence in Student Senate and particularly 
on its prestigious finance committee, Fortran appeared baffled. “Why, 
there’s still one Comp Sci student who isn’t even a senator yet,” he 
said.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 5, 1974
announcements
Attention seniors: The Alumni Associa­
tion's annual senior party will be held on 
the following dates: Monday, March 11 at 
4:45 pm: MIS seniors; Thursday, March 14 
at 5:45 pm: Fine Arts Seniors; Friday, 
March 15 at 4:45 pm: H&SS seniors; Mon­
day March 18 at 4:45 pm: CIT seniors. All 
programs will be in the Faculty Dining 
Room of Skibo. Tickets may be obtained 
with the presentation of an ID card at the 
Alumni Office, 5th floor, Warner Hall. 
You must have a ticket to be admitted. 
Please plan to stop in as soon as possible 
for your ticket or more information.
March 4 through March 22 The Thistle will
once again go on sale in Baker Hall. The 
yearbook will be out by the end of April, 
so order them now.
Council of Three Rivers American Indian
Center, Inc.' is a non-profit state chartered 
organization under the laws of the state of 
Pennsylvania. The center's population is 
representative of 23 different tribes. The 
organization's structure has been developed 
and instituted by the Indian people of the 
Pittsburgh metropolitan area themselves.
To American Indians and other Inter­
ested people having Indian descent: There 
exists here in Pittsburgh an American In­
dian Center. If you are an American Indian 
or have Indian descent, you are urged to 
contact the center at once. Council of 
Three Rivers American Indian Center, Inc. 
803 North Homewood Ave. Pittsburgh, Pa. 
15208. 243-1956.
Every Wednesday at 7 pm. there will be a
time of song, prayer and sharing at Belle- 
field Presbyterian Church, Fifth Avenue at 
Thackeray Street, Oakland. The worship 
time is for and by Oakland students.
The Tenth Muse Coffeehouse will provide a
congenial atmosphere, as always, at its next 
coffeehouse on Friday, March 8 at 9:00 in 
the Kiltie Coffeehouse. Admission and 
food are free to the campus community. 
Come, bring your friends, and have a good 
time. Sponsored by your Student Activities 
Fee.
Impeachment, with guest lecturer Tom
Kerr, lawyer and department head of AMS, 
will be the next topic in the Every Other 
Tuesday Afternoon Forum Series. The for­
um will be on Tuesday, March 12, and as 
always it will be from 12:30 to 1:30 in the 
Wherrett Room, Skibo. Free and open to 
everyone. This Forum and others spon­
sored by your student Activities Fee.
Professor Moshe Lazar, Dean of Art &
Communication at Tel Aviv University, will 
apeak on "The Sephardic Tradition: 
Judeo-Spanish Literature” on Monday, 
March 11 at noon in the last Winter Lunch 
and Lecture Series, Jewish Themes in 
World Literature. It is held in the Hillel 
Library, 3rd floor, Y-IKC on Belief ¡eld. 
Lunch is optional and it is sponsored by 
B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish University 
Center.
Purim Services will be held on Thursday,
March 7 at 7 pm. in the Hillel Library, 3rd 
floor, Y-IKC on Bellefield. They are spon­
sored by B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish 
University Center.
If you're anyone, then Jackson Browne's
latest album, For Everyman, is for you. 
Join John Young when he features the 
work of this great artist on Album Spot­
light, Sunday, March 10, from midnight to
2 am. on WRCT-FM/88.3.
Energy Crisis Problems. Financial
Difficulties. Tenure Complaints. Dr. Cyert 
discusses the issues with Ralph Guggen­
heim, Chris Infante, and Bev Robinson on 
Tuesday, March 5, from 6 to 7 pm. on 
WRCT-FM/88.3.
You say you can't afford $3 to see
Sleeper? You say you haven't got the 
money for the new Firesign Theater album 
at today's prices? Arnie Karr has the 
answer. Join him when he spotlights 
Woody Allen and Firesign: Theater on 
Thursday, March 7 from 7-7:30 pm. on 
WRCT-FM/88.3.
The golden age of poetry is alive and well
on WRCT-FM/88.3. Join University of 
Pittsburgh Professor and poet Ed Ochester 
when he reads and discusses his work with 
host Arnie Karr, Tuesday, March 5 from
7-7:30 pm. on WRCT-FM/88.3.
Imamu Amiri Baraka and Don L. Lee,
internationally famous poets and authors 
of many fine books, will be speaking here 
Wednesday, March 6 at the University of 
Pittsburgh's Public Health Auditorium. 
Imamu Baraka is National Chairman of the 
Congress of Afrikan People, a Pan-Afrikan 
Nationalist Organization. Don L. Lee is 
author of the book From Plan to Planet, 
and he is Chairman of the Chicago Chapter 
of CAP.
The program will begin at 7 pm. and is 
being sponsored by the local chapter of the 
Congress of Afrikan People. Proceeds from 
the program will be used to further Pitts­
burgh Afrikan Free School. For tickets and 
information call Pgh. Congress of Afrikan 
People at 288-2647 or 288-2630.
The Back Door, university coffeehouse,
presents folk and blues by Redemption. No 
admission charge. March 9th, 9 pm. to 1 
am.
Sexism in the Classroom: Discussion about
another area of concern to women; how 
they are perceived and responded to in the 
classroom. If you are interested in being 
involved in this discussion; in talking with 
other women on campus to see how they 
are reacting or have been reacted to; in 
developing a consciousness about the ef­
fects of such behavior on women, then join 
us Wednesday, March 6 at 6:30 pm. in 
Room 39 of Skibo. Sponsored by the Un­
dergraduate Women's Task Committee of 
the Affirmative Action Office.
Do you feel like singing for the joy of it?
Shadyside Presbyterian Church, on Amber- 
son off 5th Avenue, is beginning a gallery 
choir. Rehearsals are Thursdays at 6:30. 
'Everyone is welcome. Just come or else call 
Nano Chalfant at 682-4300.
Spirit presents: "Somethin' Real" their
fourth Annual Talent presentation. Friday, 
March 8, 1974 at 8:30 pm. in the Skibo 
Ballroom.
An ecumenical discussion group centering
around the question, "What effect have our 
religious traditions had upon our self-defi- 
nitions, roles, and relationships (interper­
sonal, social, sexual, and otherwise) as men 
and women?" is being sponsored by the 
CMU Chaplains and the CMU Student Ac­
tivities Office. Time 12:15 to 1:15. Dates: 
Thursdays, March 7, 14, 21. Place: Staff 
Cafeteria, Skibo, CMU. Questions? Call J. 
Balas, 682-6886. Come and bring a friend.
The preliminary review of applications for
senior Fulbright-Hays awards for all or part 
of the academic year 1974-75 has revealed 
a need for additional candidates for a num­
ber of appointments. Details and applica­
tions available in 207 Warner Hall.
Richard L. Thronburg, Esq., U.S. Attorney
of the Western District of Pennsylvania will 
be speaking at CMU on March 5. The lec­
ture will take place at 4:00 pm. in the 
GSIA Auditorium.
Professor Phillip I. Blum berg, Boston
University School of Law will be speaking 
at CMU on March 7. The lecture will take 
place at 4:00 pm. in the GSIA Auditorium.
Mary Gardiner Jones, Professor of Law,
University of Illinois; Former Commission­
er, Federal Trade Commission, will be 
speaking at CMU on March 12. The lecture 
will take place at 4:00 pm. in the GSIA 
Auditorium.
C. L. R. James will speak on "The History
of Pan-Africanism" in the Fourth Annual 
Caribbean Lecture Series. The lecture will 
be held at 3 pm. in the Library of the 
Black Studies Department, 3804 Fofbes 
Avenue.
Postmaster Don Fischer announced that
the postal rate increase will go into effect 
at 12:01 am. Saturday, March 2, 1974. The 
rate increases cover all classes of mail. The 
surface letter rate to Canada and Mexico 
will be the same as the new 10 cent first- 
class domestic rate. The cost of mailing a 
one-ounce surface letter to countries other 
than Canada and Mexico will rise from 15 
to 18 cents.
Airmail to Western Hemisphere Coun­
tries will increase from 17 to 21 cents and 
to other countries from 21 to 26 cents for 
each half ounce up to two ounces.
Any interested individuals or groups
wishing to participate in the third Annual 
March for Hunger, sponsored by the Pitts- 
burgh-Appalachian Emergency Fund and 
Service (PAEFSI) on March 23 at 10:00 
a.m. should contact Liberty Elyash at 
Mellon Institute, 621-1100 ext. 457 or 
auto call 61. Each Marcher is sponsored by 
one or more individuals at a certain fee per 
mile. Marches will begin at South Hills 
Village Shopping Center, Murphy-Mart, 
McKnight Rd., Wexford, and Monroeville 
Miracle Mile Shopping Center. All will end 
at Point State Park, Downtown.
Henceforth, free announcements will be 
given to organizations:
1) located within the Pittsburgh city limits, 
and 2) advertising events that are non­
commercial and without admission charge.
Events that do not fit this description may 
be advertised in the same manner as classi- 
fied-5cents/word, payable in advance.
Classified Ads
Psychology Department needs more
subjects for Saturday experiments. We 
need people who have not participated in 
previous Saturday experiments. Please 
come to Baker Hall 340 A on Saturday, 
March 9 at 12 noon. You will be paid 
$1.50/hr.
House for Sale: Squirrel Hill (5868
Douglas), 4 bedroom brick and stucco with 
basement and garage. Approx. 50 years 
old-needs work. $22,000. Assume 7/4% 
mortgage. See R. Taylor, Security Office.
For Sale: '71 Karmann Ghia convertible.
Excellent condition. $1,800. See R. 
Taylor, Security Office.
For Sale: Semi-automatic 12-guage shot­
gun. Vent-rib and poly-choke. Like new. 
$90. See R. Taylor, Security Office.
Furnished rooms for rent: Wilkinsburg,
$15.75 weekly, furnished efficiency, 
complete kitchen and combination bed- 
livingroom, bath, shower, 241-2162.
Guitar: Martin 0018-G eighteen years old,
nylon strings for classical or folk. Good 
condition, case included. 795-1743.
Personals
Anna,
G
Down 1-71 close to OSU,
Way back up Woodruff Road, no. 122,
C
There was a girl so pure they said she never 
would,
G
But I had this feeling that someday she'd 
be good.
D C
And, funny, I don't know how I could tell
G
But I was so right, and she does it so well! 
G
Go, go-go, Anna go, go, go.
C
Go, Anna, go, go, go
G
Go, Anna, go, go, go 
DC G
Go, go, Anna go, go, go.
—Carl
RR sorry to see you go.
RVH more of the same?
All
the BOYS know why they were afraid to
let us play again.
Signed, 
The Polish Patriots

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 5, 1974-Page 5
' Haven’h We 
slways Been?
by Barbara Witte
The Womens Committee of the Carnegie
Institute of Art presented its 2nd annual 
fashion -show February 15 at 2 p.m. in the 
Carnegie Institute. Co-spOnsered by Kauf­
mans, the proceeds of the show went to 
acquisition of new art for the museum.
The audience was primarily made up of 
women over 55:the clear stocking, black 
pumps and heavy bangle-bracelet type. At 
the reception before the show everyone 
sipped punch and munched on cookies.
% The special guest of the occasion was 
Gloria Vanderbilt, fashions “renaissance 
woman.” Sounding like Rod McKuen, she 
spoke at great length about “every” per­
sons potential in life .. . “Be artistic, be 
inspired, be free.” Enough said.
The moderator of the show was Kauf­
man’s fashion director. The audience 
audibly gasped as he spoke. The fashions 
£ were stunning. The first string of models 
wore filmy chiffon dresses in sharp neon 
colors. The audience went wild (mild 
clapping) over the timeless clothes but 
fashions such as these do inevitably get 
boring. Anyway, if fashion dictates classics, 
no one will purchase much from year to 
year except for an indispensible Pauline 
Trigere dress.
* Introducing part II of the fashion 
show—the collections: rainwear, the natur­
als, resort clothes and, finally, evening 
wear. All were co-ordinated with matching 
sling back sandles, dock hats, and, of 
course, the slim executive (power plus
money = the new woman) clutch bag.
The show ended with the models parad­
ing in feather masks, and a slide show of 
the Mardi Gras.
It’s a great way to make money.
Women’s Colleges to train Academic 
Administrators
Fourteen women’s colleges and two for­
mer women’s colleges have received a 
$290,000 grant from the Carnegie Corpora­
tion to fund a new two-year program of 
administrative internships for young 
women in college and university adminis­
tration. The purpose of the program is to 
provide colleges and universities with a 
pool of young women who have served 
apprenticeships in academic administra­
tion, especially in areas such as financial 
and business affairs, admissions, financial 
aid, academic affairs, public relations and 
development, where women are grossly 
under-represented. The program will also 
assist interns with placement. For further 
information contact: Amalie R. Shannon, 
Cedar Crest College, Allentown, 
Pennsylvania 18104.
The Claremont Colleges Announce the 
Women Administrators Program
A new program, designed to provide 
individualized administrative training for a 
select group of women, will begin in July
1974 at the Claremont Colleges, Clare­
mont, California. Funded by the Carnegie 
Corporation, the year’s training will 
prepare these women, to be known as Ad­
ministrative Fellows of the Claremont Col­
leges, for upper echelon administrative po­
sitions in colleges and universities.
The program, designed to augment the 
background of each Fellow, will not be a 
generalized degree program. It will:
1) enlarge the eAperience of women 
whose administrative experience has been 
limited;
2) introduce faculty women to 
administrative problems and techniques;
3) prepare women in business or the 
professions to transfer to higher education.
Applications for the first year are now 
being received, and applicants will be noti­
fied in March 1974. Personal qualifications, 
academic achievement, and executive or 
professional experience will be the basic 
selection criteria. Each Administrative 
Fellow will receive $9,500 annually.
The Program Director is Elizabeth L. 
Cless, Director for Special Academic Pro­
grams of the Claremont Colleges. Applica­
tion forms are available from: Mary Ellen 
Mead, Project Coordinator; Women Admin­
istrators Program; The Claremont Colleges; 
160 Harper Hall; Claremont, California 
91711.
Continuing Education
The University of Michigan Center for 
Continuing Education of Women has an­
nounced its 1974-75 CEW Scholarships for 
women whose education was at some time 
interrupted. Twenty scholarships will be 
awarded to women who are starting or 
continuing any degree program, graduate 
or undergraduate, full or part-time, at any 
University of Michigan campus during the 
1974-75 academic year. Awards will range 
from $500 to $2,000. Admission to the 
University is required for consideration by 
the Selection Committee, but women may 
apply before admission is confirmed. Con­
tact: Center for Continuing Education of 
Women; University of Michigan; 330 
Thompson Street; Ann Arbor,, Michigan 
48108.
Research Fellowships Offered to Women
The Arthur and Elizabeth Schlesinger 
Library on the History of Women in Amer­
ica at Radcliffe College will award two 
Post-doctoral research fellowships in 
1974-75. The fellowships, which will be 
awarded for work in the history of women 
and the population control movement, 
family planning or a closely-related topic, 
carry stipends of $7,500 supported by a 
Rockefeller Grant. For further information 
contact: Rockefeller Fellowship Selection 
Committee, The Schlesinger Library, Rad­
cliffe College, 3 James Street, Cambridge, 
Mass. 0913*8.
The Florence Eagleton Grants Program 
is designed to discover new knowledge 
about women and politics, and to stimulate 
a continuing examination of women’s roles 
in public life. The research topic chosen for 
1974-75 is: “The Extent and Political 
Impact of Women’s Voluntary Activities.”
Four to six grants will be awarded to 
persons of diverse backgrounds and points 
of view; stipends range from $5,000 to 
$10,000 and cover the period from Sep­
tember 1974 to June 1975. Proposals will 
be welcome from persons with political, 
community and organizational experience, 
as well as from those with academic oi 
professional backgrounds. Proposals will be 
judged on the basis of originality, signifi­
cance and suitability of method and 
approach.
Application forms and additional infor­
mation is available from: Center for the 
American Woman and Politics, Ea^eton In­
stitute of Politics, Rutgers-The State Uni­
versity, New Brunswick, New Jersey 
08901. Completed applications and 
supplement ray materials must be received 
by March 31, 1974.
Curtis Enterprises and New Era Records
present
/pring Geh Rway
OVER $10,000 IN PRIZES TO BE AWARDED! ENTER NOW!
YOU COULD WIN THE VACATION OF YOUR LIFETIME!
Grand Prize
Five, sunfilled days — four fantastic nights at the posh "Pier 66 Motel" on the ocean at FT. LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA!
First-Class round trip transportation from winner's location to FT. LAUDERDALE!
Honda rental bike during the duration of your stay!
Dinner for two at the fabulous "Pink Pussy Cat"!
Dinner for two at the "Windjammer"
Dinner for two at "Pier 66" - the world's most fantastic supper club overlooking the beautiful blue ATLANTIC!
$100.00 credit account in your name at "She” - the swingingest singles spot in Florida! Top name entertainment seven days a week!
$50.00 credit account in your name at 'The Button" — Lauderdale's leading after-hours club!
$100.00 cash — to spend as you please!
10 Each Second Prizes
Three days, two nights at Holiday Inn, on the ocean, at FT. LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA.
Round trip transportation (from winner's location).
Dinner for two at 'The Wintfammer."
$25.00 credit account in your name at "She."
$25.00 cash — to spend as you please.
1,000 Third Prizes
Any one stereo LP or 8 track tape of your choice listed in the current New Era Records Catalog.
RULES AND REGULATIONS
Contest open only to bon a fide students oi an accredited college or uniwrtity 
Winners will be selected by the W A Wilholt Corporation, an independent judging 
organization Winners will be selected at random and the decision of the fudges will be 
final A list of all winners will be available upon written request to New Era Record* 
To register, print information in spaces provided on coupon—?
Enclose $ 1 00 for processing and handling Remit by check or postal money order only 
PAYABLE TO: "NEW ERA RECORDS CEI."
Mail your registration toNEW ERA RECORDS 
SUITE 217 DEPT 20 
3177 PEACHTREE ROAD N E.
ATLANTA. GEORGIA 30306
Entries must be postmarked NOT LATER THAN March 8th. 1974
CURTIS ENTERPRISES > NEW ERs REC0R0S
"I certify that I am a student at(nam* or school)
Name
Address
City___. StateZip
! Phone

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 5, 1974
Fuel for Fue Passes Over Flaherty, Again
Body-Brain
“You’ve heard that the way to a man’s 
heart is through his stomach. Maybe the 
way to his mind is through his stomach, 
too,” muses Rabbi Phillip Sigal, Director of 
Pittsburgh’s B’nai B’rith Hillel.
Sigal says that Hillel’s series of com­
bined meals and lectures held on college 
campuses is designed to provide “fuel for 
the body and fuel for the brain, too.” And 
he adds, “If one judges by the kind of 
interest student activities generally receive 
at C-MU, Hillel is doing definitely better 
than average.”
In a more serious vein, Sigal offers other 
reasons why Hillel expects 1974, the fif­
tieth anniversary of the founding of the 
national Jewish youth organization, to be 
its most successful year so far at C-MU and 
other Pittsburgh campuses.
To begin with, Sigal says increased fund­
ing has helped. Pittsburgh Hillel, supported 
by B’nai B’rith, had traditionally con­
centrated its resources at the University of 
Pittsburgh, the campus with the largest 
Jewish populations.
But in 1970, the United Jewish Federa­
tion began allocating funds to Hillel with 
the understanding that activities would be 
spread beyond the Pitt campus.
So Hillel rotates its activities, holding 
some on one campus and some on another. 
Typical lecture-dinners held at C-MU re­
cently included Professor Fred Sochatoff 
speaking about Neil Simon and Professor 
Alvin Weinstein talking about the ethics of 
product liability.
Sigal points with special pride to the 
W7einstein lecture, saying “It’s a proper sub­
ject for C-MU, being a traditionally tech­
nically-oriented school, and a proper sub­
ject for Hillel because of our traditional 
concern with ethics.”
Other Hillel projects include dances, 
coffeehouses, a Kosher dining club, 
courses, and personal counseling.
And special events have been scheduled 
to celebrate the organization’s fiftieth year, 
including a lecture by Dr. Eugene Borowitz 
of Hebrew Union College on writers Roth, 
Malamud, Bellow, and Weisel, and a con­
cert of sacred music by Ernest Bloch.
The concert is a highly ecumenical cele­
bration, consisting of Jewish liturgical 
music to be performed by the C-MU choir 
and orchestra—a group which includes stu­
dents from a variety of faiths—under the 
direction of C-MU faculty members Chaun- 
cey Kelley and Donald Wilkins. One per­
formance will be held in Calvary Episcopal 
Church. That performance will take place 
on March 13 at 8:00 p.m. An earlier per­
formance will take place in Carnegie Music 
Hall on Sunday, March 10, at 8:30 p.m. 
Free tickets to both concerts are available 
at the Skibo Information Desk.
RESEARCH
Thousands of Topics 
$2.75 per page 
Send f&r y&ur up-h&-dahe, 160-page, 
mail &rder cahal&g. Encl&se $1.00 
h& c&ver p&shage (delivery hime is 
1 h& 2 days).
RESEARCH ASSISTANCE, INC. 
11941 WILSHIRE BLVD., SUITE #2 
LOS sNGELES, CsLIF. 90025 
(213) 477-8474 &r 477-5493
Our research material is sold for 
research assistance only.
by Sharon Curcio
AMS recently passed up a chance to 
rehire John Flaherty, who was fired three 
days before the opening of Fall Semester, 
as a faculty member in the department.
The department hired Thomas Flynn, 
Assistant General Counsel for Westing- 
house Corporation, to fill the vacancy 
created by the departure of Kenneth 
Morris, who replaced Flaherty.
Morris, a lawyer for Westinghouse, left 
his teaching position when he was pro­
moted by the company.
Last September Richard W. Deckman, 
Director of GSIA Evening School, dis­
missed Flaherty under the assumption that 
Flaherty would leave CMU upon becoming 
judge of Common Pleas Court in January 
of 1974. Deckman had not asked Flaherty 
if he intended to stay at CMU to teach Law 
in Modern American Society, but 
alledgedly told Flaherty: “I am not going 
to appoint you this year,” four days before 
classes began last semester. Deckman con­
tended that he did not know of any judge 
who taught, so he replaced Flaherty with 
Morris . . .
Deckman explained to Thomas Kerr, 
head of the Department of Administration 
and Management Sciences that it was a 
matter of substituting a man with law and 
business administration degrees for a man 
with only a law degree. AMS feels that 
“Law in Modern American Society” which 
Flaherty formerly taught, is a course for its 
own majors and therefore wants corporate 
lawyers who will stress the business aspects 
of law. Flaherty contends that he has not 
only civil law qualifications but also cor­
porate law qualifications having acted as 
legal counsel for United Dairy Farmers and 
Kentucky Fried Chicken. Flaherty also 
mentioned that there are other judges 
teaching in the Pittsburgh area. Aurther 
Fisher, committee chairman for Student 
Senate Academic Affairs adds, “I think it 
would be quite prestigious for the 
university to have a judge teaching.”
Although AMS would prefer corporate 
lawyers to teach “Law in Modern
American Society” and emphasize those 
features for their majors, students from all 
colleges, not only AMS, take the course as 
a general introduction to Civil law. 
Students feel that Flaherty’s organization 
of the course gave them the general back­
ground they wanted and knowledge they 
could use in an everyday context. Flaherty 
“brought home” many points with illustra­
tions from his own experience as a civil 
lawyer. As Fisher suggested: “Perhaps what 
we need is another general introduction to 
law course for non-AMS majors and open 
to all students as part of the Social 
Relations Department. This course would 
eliminate the conflict between what AMS 
students need from a law course, business 
law, and what other students need, civil 
Jaw.”
' The TARTAN interrupted Judge 
Flaherty while he had 40 people in the 
courtroon and was sentencing a man to 
four years in the penitentiary to ask him 
whether he would like to return to CMU. 
Judge Flaherty answered: “The
circumstances involved (in his dismissal) 
are very disturbing to me. My course was 
well received and I was proud of it -1 gave 
it much of my time. Then when a minor 
employee notified me only shortly before­
hand that my services were no longer 
needed, well it wasn’t welcome news. I’ve 
always felt very close to the students and 
over those 16 years advised literally 
thousands about law careers, placing them 
in graduate schools, representing their 
fraternities, and incorporating their student 
government. But to receive such a notice 
three days before classes resumed. I can’t 
express how those 16 years were part of 
my life and I’d be happy to return. Of 
course I’ve received calls from the trustees - 
they appeared to be outraged by the news. 
But I’d be very happy to be back at CMU if 
GSIA sees fit to invite me back-I’d be 
happy to resume where I left off.”
When asked if GSIA had considered 
asking or had asked Judge Flaherty to re­
turn, Deckman said that he had not asked 
him to come back and commented, “Let’s 
not go through that again-I thought that if
I were starting a new job, fd be 
concentrating on that job.” When told that 
Judge Flaherty did have an interest in re­
suming teaching at CMU, Deckman res­
ponded: “I’d be delighted to talk to him 
but I’d like to communicate with him 
directly - not through the TARTAN. If he 
doesn’t call me maybe I’ll call him.”
Deckman alone does not have the power 
to fire and as Arnold Weber admits, 
Flaherty should have been given reasonable 
notice and that there were improprieties in 
the way the affair was handled and that 
Flaherty might be entitled to restitution. 
To date Judge Flaherty has filed no 
complaint against the University.
Some conflict seems to have arisen 
when students flocked to Flaherty’s 
section of the course and then refused to 
transfer to another section when that 
section became full. The students failure to 
distribute themselves evenly among the 
three sections of the course tended to 
cause some problems. Deckman’s goal as an 
administrator, making the GSIA night 
school a first rate organization, met with 
apparent opposition when Flaherty did not 
ask students to leave his section. One 
source also indicated that one after-the-fact 
excuse for firing Flaherty was his grading 
practice: he distributed too many “A’s” 
according to some administrators. They 
consequently thought students were taking 
the course for a ride -- an “A” without toil.
The 1972 A Phi O Faculty-Course 
Evaluation listed Flaherty as receiving the 
second highest average in the AMS depart­
ment, an average of 4.43. Flaherty enjoyed 
the student pollings of 4.27 and 4.48 
respectively. Flaherty incorporated the 
Student Government and served as its legal 
counsel, negotiated the United Fraternal 
Organization’s new contract with CMU’s 
housing office, and helped WRCT apply to 
the FCC for its FM license. He has also 
taken students as law clerks and has taken 
CMU’s pre-law students to observe court 
proceedings and allows students to do in­
vestigative work on actual briefs. Flaherty 
has never charged students for any of these 
services.
thiswek
B'NAi B'RITH HILLEL- 
JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
Announces
COCKTAIL PARTY & GATEWAY CLIPPER RIDE
Saturday Night March 9
to celebrate B'nai B'rith Hilleis 50th Anniversary & Purim
Cocktail Party - 7:30 -8:30 p.m., 2nd floor lobby, Y-IKC on Bellcfield
Boat Ride - 912. with LIVE BAND
Transportation to the boat will be provided to & from the Y —IKC, buses leave at 8:30 p.m. 
(Reservations by March 7, 621-8875, $5.00)
DRESSIER THAN USUAL
315 S. BELLEFIELD AVENUE (ACROSS FROM HEINZ CHAPEL)
621-8875

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 5, 1974-Page 7
letterscont’d:
continued from p. 2
vor, as has been done in the past. However, 
to deny someone their basic right to ex­
press opposing views is not only unconsti­
tutional, but is against the very freedom 
which these people claim to be fighting for.
This intolerance of other peoples’ view­
point is not what I would expect from an 
“enlightened” college campus. It is, in fact, 
no less repressive than those groups I hear 
condemned on campus as being repressive.
Feryl Masters
Editor:
I understand that there are a few hun­
dred thousand dollars available for im­
provements, so I thought I’d make a sug­
gestion. It’s a little thing, really. Could 
somebody do me a favor and fix the type­
writers in the study room at Hunt Library? 
They’re rather useless in their present 
condition.
Thanks; I’ll send in more suggestions as 
I think of them.
A. Adler, of CMU
Editor:
In the last TARTAN, Steve Hamm 
wrote on a CMU well roundless education. 
His letter warrants attention. Mr. Hamm 
claims that one thing he learned in four 
years at CMU was that of losing his naivete, 
but he seems glad to have a prospective 
student believe otherwise. He further men­
tions that the most valuable lesson the Uni­
versity is capable of giving a student is the 
opportunity to “learn first hand about 
money and hypocrisy. . . a good well 
rounded education.”
My question is: Why make the prospect 
suffer at all? I think I would have to have 
been more candid. After all, one thing I’ve 
learned here is how to relate-socially.
Ed Abramson 
Social Relations, ‘74
Taj Mahal Restaurant
5151 Clairton Blvd., Route 51, South
• NOW OPEN •
Distinctive Indian Cuisine 
Buffet Fri.: $4.75 per Person
FOR RESERVATIONS: CALL 881-9500
Editor:
It seems history has repeated itself on 
the CMU campus, as anyone familiar with 
former Beta Sigma Rho and the events of 
Friday morning could attest. For the sec­
ond time in two years, off-campus police 
have entered the school to arrest students 
on drug charges. The fearless members of 
Security and the office of Dean Williams 
greatly contributed to the apprehensions of 
these criminals. Those men deserve praise 
and congratulations for their magnificent 
efforts to protect the campus community. 
We are free from the corrupting influences 
of drugs and a few undesirable students are 
no longer with us. And at what cost? Those 
students now are faced with criminal rec­
ords, court costs and a great disruption of 
their studies. The school has received an­
other blemish which hurts anyone gradu­
ating from its confines. The students not 
involved are disturbed and angered. The 
men of Security are entitled to feelings of 
accomplishment.
Security and Dean Williams, you are a 
joke!
The incident could easily have been 
averted if only you had taken the necessary 
and appropriate actions. I’m sure dealing 
would have lessened with a few threats and 
confrontations on the campus level. In­
stead you decided to aid in the prosecution 
of our students. Gentlemen, thank you. In 
the future we would appreciate knowing 
when you decide to abdicate your responsi­
bility. Until then keep up the good work. 
You’re doing splendid.
Bruce B. Lindsay
Editor:
This seems to be just one of a growing 
list of complaints concerning Security on 
campus, but I’m going to dutifully register 
it nonetheless.
For those who haven’t yet ventured into 
the bowels of Doherty hall in order to 
“find” things, there is a renovation project 
going on down here. Security is called in at 
least every other morning to fill out theft 
claims. Sometimes four Security men come 
at once to watch one guy fill out theft 
claims ranging from hand and electric tools 
to electrical sockets removed from the 
walls to telephones. Practically every ma­
chine shop, every construction crew, and 
each of us who is trying to work here 
through the construction has had equip­
ment or supplies of some sort removed 
almost every night. The dollar amount is 
rapidly mounting into several thousands.
My question? How can Security afford 
to send four men to fill out reports, and 
not be able to send even one man through 
the building at least a couple of times a 
night? We can’t even keep rooms and e- 
quipment locked and bolted against all the 
thieves. Where is Security when security is 
needed, besides drinking coffee in Skibo?
It seems to me that the cost of keeping 
one man on duty evenings down here 
would be more than compensated for by 
the dollars saved. We can’t get replace­
ments for most of the things we’ve all lost.
Beth Anne Haner 
MFA ‘74
Editor:
During the month of January the 
United Fraternal Organization ofCarnegie- 
Mellon University, in conjunction with the 
Panhellenic Association of the University 
of Pittsburgh, undertook a fundraising pro­
ject to assist the Brother’s Brother Founda­
tion in its efforts to provide needed vac­
cines for aiding the victims of the 
Nicaraguan earthquake. The funds which 
they raised will enable the Foundation to 
purchase 10,000 doses of diphtheria and 
tetanus vaccine, of which the first 1,000 
have already been delivered. The remaining 
9,000 doses are to be sent for use in a 
national immunization program this spring.
On behalf of the Brother’s Brother 
Foundation and the Nicaraguan Minister of 
Health, Dr. Fernando Valle Lopez, I wish 
to express our thanks to all those who 
contributed their time and money to this 
life-saving cause.
Luke L. Hingson 
Administrative Assistant
Editor:
The staff and management of WRCT 
deserve a great deal of credit for their 
success in getting WRCT (FM) on the air, 
and I would like to extend my personal 
congratulations to the dedicated students 
of past and present staff, as well as the
many University officials involved, who 
contributed to this venture. It is a large 
step forward.
One key feature of the FM conversion 
that was overlooked in last week’s 
TARTAN article: although there have been 
numerous proposals in past years for FM 
transmission, this one was the first to be 
based on responsible engineering practice 
and sound financial planning. Past attempts 
to convert things like surplus World War II 
ship-to-shore transmitters to FM broadcast 
frequency were a trifle optimistic, and met 
with unsurprising failure. This time, 
honest-to-goodness professional broadcast 
equipment was specified, under a bit more 
realistic budget. I compliment the people 
at WRCT for their good sense.
In a larger view, I am extremely pleased 
to see WRCT begin its FM life. The carrier- 
current AM system under which WRCT has 
been operating for twenty-odd years is an 
expensive, losing battle which became 
especially grim the last several years, with 
the manifold increase in the popularity of 
FM stations. A survey conducted two years 
ago indicated that over 90% of the students 
on this campus possessed good-quality FM 
receivers; faced with the spotty coverage of 
WRCT’s AM signal, and the inferior sound 
inherent in AM broadcasting, it is no 
wonder that listenership for WRCT went 
down. The change to FM was badly 
needed.
The potential for WRCT (FM) now is 
enormous, and so is the responsibility. The 
students of this school have an opportunity 
to use radio’s unique voice to serve the 
local community in ways that commercial 
stations cannot afford to do, and that 
WQED does not care to do. The obligation 
now rests on the rest of the University 
community to support the station, by 
listening to it, responding to it, making 
useful contributions and criticism, and 
helping out the operation in every way 
possible. There is a continual demand for 
talented students in all fields at WRCT, and 
any who have stayed away thinking that it 
wasn’t worthwhile to work at a limited- 
coverage station should reconsider.
Ladies and gentlemen of WRCT, keep 
up the good work: show us that you 
deserve this new FM license.
Geoffrey L. Bryan
frts Sfi
ALL KINDS OFBrushes
FOR OILS, WsTER COLONS,
TGIF’sGf
Sable-Camel-Bamboo 
iovnds*Flats-8rii)lits.................
PARI OF THEr C.R. A.B. CO-OPi 111 rC.RAB O-Pi1111
Is stealing along distance call worth ^^a criminal record?
The use of phoney credit cards, electronic devices or any other means to avoid 
paying for phone calls is against the law. It’s stealing—pure and simple.
In this state, conviction for making fraudulent phone calls may result in:
¦ A fine of up to $15,000
¦ Up to seven years in jail
¦ Restitution for the total cost of the fraud
¦ Court costs
¦ A permanent criminal record
One more thing: modern electronic computer systems are being used to track down 
offenders.
The penalties may seem harsh. But the cold fact remains that the law does not look 
on phone fraud as a lark. /25\(Q) Bell of Pennsylvania

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 5, 1974
Finance Committee 
Cuts TGIF Allocation
Bill CappsW.R. Thompson
by Steven Correll
Several student organizations planned to 
appeal to Student Senate today to restore 
budget cuts made by .»Senate Finance com­
mittee.
The Activities Board (AB), which lost 
the entire $3 thousand it had budgeted for 
TGIF, is the main complaintant. But Sen­
ate will also have to decide the fate of the 
$4,065 Hockey Club budget, which hangs 
undecided after two tie votes in commit­
tee. And other groups, including the ski 
club, have also said they intend to ask for a 
second chance from Senate.
The AB plans to present a petition with 
over 600 names supporting TGIF. The AB 
also lost $2 thousand out of the $12 
thousand it had requested for concerts and 
$3 thousand out of the $9 thousand it had 
asked for lectures.
The whole controversy seems to stem 
from the presence of three Graduate sen­
ators from the Computer Science Depart­
ment who have argued that the $25 per 
year student activities fee, which funds 
student organizations, should be made 
optional, and that student organizations 
should be subsidized only for activities that 
cannot be made to pay for themselves.
“I’m not in favor of collecting 
taxes... to pay for things which individ­
uals could pay for themselves if they had 
saved the money they paid in taxes,” says 
Graduate Senator Elaine Rich, who adds, 
“I don’t see why all of us should pool our 
money to pay for a few guys to go on a ski 
trip.” (Finance committee denied a Ski 
Club request for $500 for transportation 
expenses.)
And the grad senators have suggested 
that the AB should make TGIF and its 
concerts break even. They say that if stu­
dents will not pay the full cost of concerts 
or TGIF through ticket prices, then that 
proves that students do not really want 
concerts or TGIF badly enough to pay for 
them, and so Senate should not subsidize 
them.
AB Director Ira Picker argues that AB 
programming is educational as well as en­
tertaining, and deserves money. “I don’t go 
into the sailing club, and I’ve only gone to 
one hockey game ... the student who pays 
his $25 activities fee to subsidize concerts 
has somebody else paying $25 to subsidize 
the activities he’s interested in.”
AB Director Picker says that it isn’t fair 
for the graduate senators to try to enact 
the optional fee proposal through Finance 
committee budget allocations, since only 
Senate itself can pass legislation changing 
the way the fee is collected and spent.
Graduate Senator Elaine Rich, one of 
the three Graduate senators who supported 
the optional fee proposal, explains that un­
less the committee cuts budgets now, its 
total allocation would be too large to be 
paid for under the optional fee system. 
Senate would, she says, have to postpone 
the optional fee for a semester or incur a
deficit.
“There’s a good American tradition for 
deficit spending, but I don’t think we want 
to do that,” says Rich.
In voting on student budgets, the 
committee has divided many times along 
the same lines, with the three graduate 
members from the Computer Science de­
partment and Commuter Senator Edward 
Simon consistently voting for budget cuts. 
Controversial items have often been 
decided by a one-vote margin, though 
several budgets/ have passed unanimously.
Several angry exchanges have taken 
place between committee chairman 
Thompson and members ofsthe committee 
during the course of the meetings. At the 
February 14 session, during discussion of 
the WRCT budget, Thompson ruled out of 
order an amendment by Lee Cooprider, 
who then told the chairman, “You can’t 
legislate by rule of mallet” as Thompson 
pounded the table with his gavel.
At last Thursday’s meeting, when 
Thompson brought the hockey club budget 
up for a second vote, neither Elaine Rich 
nor Lee Cooprider was present. Koltun 
accused Thompson of trying to get the 
budget passed behind the backs of its 
opponents and offered an amendment to 
table the issue. When the amendment 
failed, Koltun told the committee, “I have 
not been impressed by the politic- playing 
of the chairman of the committee,” and 
spoke of “dirty politics.”
Steve Lee then said that the com­
mittee’s poor relations with student organ­
izations are due partly to “one particular 
small group of graduate students who have 
been overrepresented.”
Thompson later defended his actions on 
the hockey budget, saying that he had 
wanted to break the first tie vote in order 
to report to Senate some conclusive 
recommendation. He noted that Sam Enns, 
a supporter of the hockey budget, was also 
absent at the second vote.
Not all student groups are fighting the 
committee’s actions. WRCT, whose $9 
thousand request got cut by 25%, will not 
contest the outcome.
“Right now we’re planning to try to live 
with it,” says WRCT general manager 
Frank Napoli, who said that the committee 
did partly compensate for the cuts by 
allowing the station to keep any outside
income it manages to earn.______________
Tired of 
Tired of Misinformation About 
Drugs?Peer Help can give you straight 
answers. 150A Baker 621-9900
I'd walk a mile for 
a SUPER MOTHER, 
the BEST Pizza in Pgh. 
Centre at Craig 621-6755
1 mile from Mineo's 
3/4 mile from Bobby's 
4 blocks from Gino & Pete's 
Mr. Mother Competes By 
Quality Not By Location. 
Mother'sDELIVERS
8 Students 
Arrested
continued from p. 1
gators and that “We could just as well get 
another one next week-it’s an acceptable 
practice.” Taylor mentioned that other 
universities hire undercover agents to 
watch the narcotics traffic in their univer­
sity to save the school’s reputation.
When asked about the normal procedure 
of the task officers, Taylor said that the 
raids are staged in the early morning be­
cause the officers do not want the drugs 
destroyed, so these morning searches are 
the most likely to put the possessors off­
guard. He also said that the students were 
considered the legal residents of these 
places because they were sleeping there. 
Taylor said that the officers’ normal entry 
procedure is to knock and identify them­
selves before going into the room, but 
there was one case of forcible entry on 
their part when no one responded to open 
the door.
Taylor declined comment on any rea­
sons the Task Force gave him for the raid, 
but added that the names of those arrested 
were “not unfamiliar to security.” In fact, 
as Taylor continued, “Scobell Hall is one 
area we have marked where drugs are most 
used-it’s a shame that students ruin their 
lives with such a felony.” He further stated 
that he would like to see students attitudes 
change and students not tacitly support 
large scale use and distribution of grass and 
acid in the dorms.
There are several informal ways to 
handle problems like that through student 
affairs machinery, keeping check on this 
without federal agents intervening in cam­
pus problems. Students must volunteer in­
formation about infractions of the drug 
rules if we are to keep campus problems 
and disciplinary actions an in-house thing, 
according to Taylor. Taylor admitted that 
this kind of publicity would hurt the uni­
versity and that he would like to see stu­
dents co-operate more to have campus dis­
ciplinary action solve these problems. He 
plans to continue Security’s role as the 
place students will call if they are on a bad 
trip; Taylor feels Security should help and
not police the university community.
DeaVi Williams’ involvement in helping 
the arrested students was simply, as he put 
it, “to respect the student’s rights and see 
that they got the proper treatment from 
the law.” Dean Williams had talked with 
each student after the arraignment when 
bond had been posted and helped them 
secure loans to pay the bond. Dean Will­
iams emphasized that his actions were on 
behalf of the university, but is not a univer­
sity service. He said that what he did would 
not be able to be done every time a drug 
charge arises since what he can do depends 
upon the number of charges placed against 
each of the arrested and the amount of 
bail.
Dean Williams feels that there is a myth 
perpetrated on the campus that students 
are somehow protected from the law or 
that the campus community is “free” from 
the law. He stressed the university’s posi­
tion:
“We will respond to a complaint about a 
student using or selling drugs, but our re­
sponse is based on or reiterates the law.” 
Dean Williams said that those who are in­
volved in these kinds of illegal activities 
know the law themselves. He explained 
that the university treats students like 
adults, respecting their rights and property, 
but when a student breaks the law, he, like 
every other citizen, is subject to the actions 
prescribed by law.
Dean Williams mentioned that the uni­
versity doesn’t hire undercover people to 
patrol the students’ actions and would 
never invade the students’ privacy by, for 
instance, searching the rooms without war­
rants. He feels that the university’s ap­
proach of respecting students’ rights is a 
positive one, and that the relationship be­
tween the student and the university’s 
policy is one of mutual respect.
The arrested included the following: 
Samuel McCorvey, Eliot Harris, Michael 
Fisher, Arthur Todd, Michael Mula, Mich­
ael Hallum, Michael Mayo, and Roy 
Place.
GIRLS... ARE YOU LOOKING FOR A SUMMER COUNSELOR POSITION?
Applicants are now being considered for the 1974 camp season. Must be 
able to teach one of the following: Arts r Crafts, Arts & Crafts Director, 
Dancing, Theater Director, Piano Accompanist and singing, Archery, Ten­
nis, Tennis Director, Golf, Trampoline, gymnastics, Photography, 
Cheerleading, Riflery (N.R.A.), Scouting and Nature Study, A.R.C. Swim­
ming Instructor, Boating, Canoeing and Water Skiing Instructor or 
General Athletics. Secretary and Bookkeeper also needed.
Write Camp Director, 2409 Shelleydale Drive, 
Baltimore, Md. 21209.
&Bin£Ü
B'NAI B'RITH HILLEL - JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
Winter Lunch and Lecture Series
JEWISH THEMES IN WORLD LITERATURE
Monday March 7 7 Noon
Speaker: Professor Moshe Lazar, Tel Aviv University
Dean of Art and Communication 
Topic: "The Sephardic Tradition: Judeo*
Spanish Literature'
Location: Hillel Library 3rd Floor, Y-IKC on Bellefield
ALL STUDENTS & FACULTY WELCOME
(Cost for lunch is $ 1.00 or ¡ust come for the discussion) 
315 S. BELLEFIELD AVENUE (ACROSS FROM HEINZ CHAPEL) 
621-8875

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—Tuesday, March 5, 1974—Page 9
Peace Corps, VISTA 
Recruits on Campus
Heinz 
sward
by Debbie Siegel
Peace Corps and VISTA recruiters made 
their annual trip to CMU on February 27th 
and 28th.
Bob Laranger, recruiter and former 
worker in VISTA described the response of 
CMU students: “Students have shown in­
terest and asked general questions, but, we 
haven’t been attracting many of the 
graduating seniors who we are concerned 
with recruiting.” Laranger attributed this 
calm to a lack of publicity and the after 
effects of February break.
ACTION, a government agency, 
supports both the Peace Corps and VISTA. 
Laranger attributed some student appre­
hension about involvement with ACTION 
to the Watergate incident. “Some students 
may resent anything to do with the govern­
ment.”
The Peace Corps is a two year program 
with a three month training program. It 
includes sixty participating countries and 
there are five hundred programs. 8,500 
Peace Corps volunteers serve these sixty 
countries. VISTA is a one year program 
and includes every state in the U.S. except 
Mississippi which hasn’t requested 
volunteers. There are four hundred pro­
grams in VISTA, staffed by 4,300 
volunteers.
“We’re basically still looking for liberal 
arts people. But, we’re looking for a larger 
percentage of professionals than we have in
the past ten years,” Laranger told the 
TARTAN. Some of the skills ACTION 
needs include engineering, architecture, 
city planning, law, and medical 
professionals. Tradesmen are also desire- 
able.
The minimum age requirement is 
twenty years. Generally, acceptance into 
an ACTION program necessitates a college 
degree unless an individual has a particular 
skill. One other alternative is to apply as a 
Local Community Volunteer. This appli­
cant usually lives at home and works 
within the native community. This arrange­
ment can only be worked out with VISTA. 
There were 70,000 applications in 1973, a 
peak figure since the 1960’s. The Peace 
Corps has funds to support 8,500 volun­
teers and VISTA has a supporting capacity 
of 4,300 volunteers.
For students under twenty who are 
interested in ACTION, there is an optional 
college program. Although Carnegie-Mellon 
is not one of the participants a student 
may arrange with one of the active 
universities to work in a community for a 
year under the supervision of the student’s 
department and gain credit for work. 
Examples would be working with 
community justice, social work, or health 
programs. A thesis, relating to the interest 
is required. A student at CMU who wants 
further information should inquire at the 
placement office.
Any individual chosen to partake in an
ACTION program works with a supervisor 
from the prospective country with the 
Peace Corps or non-profit organizations 
such as the YMCA or VISTA.
“With the job situation, there aren’t 
many opportunities for graduates. Some 
use the Peace Corps and VISTA as a
stepping stone for experience and they
later resume their search for jobs,” 
Laranger told the TARTAN. He feels
ACTION still has as many idealistic people 
as in the past.
An ACTION recruiting office opened on 
October 1st, 1973 in Pittsburgh. It is
located on 4401 Fifth Avenue and Belle- 
field in the University and City Ministries 
Building and it serves Western Penn­
sylvania. For information, telephone 
644-2671. In addition to Laranger, it is 
staffed by two former workers in the Peace 
Corps, Mona Murphy who served in 
Paraguay, and Ken Barnes who served in 
Jamaica. Plans are in progress to open an 
administrative ACTION office which 
would encompass the new separate 
recruiting office. Mike Balzano, the 
National Director of the Peace Corps is 
coordinating the program and making some 
changes such as decentralizing the power in 
VISTA in order for volunteers to have 
more contact with their supervisors. The 
Peace Corps will stay intact, but it is 
sending fewer volunteers. ACTION is 
basically focusing on what skills are needed 
and is interested in specialized people.
This year’s annual Vera I. Heinz Travel 
Award has been presented to Barbara R. 
Freeman, a junior at C-MU. The grant, es­
tablished in 1967, enables a woman to 
study and travel abroad between her junior 
and senior years. The purpose of the 
$1,500 award is “to have an articulate and 
perceptive young lady hgain firsthand 
knowledge of international understanding 
and share her experience with other mem­
bers of the college community upon her 
return.”
In choosing the awardee, Dean Betty 
Jane Lloyd, associate dean of the College 
of Humanities and Social Sciences, Dean 
Virginia Milligan, dean of women, and 
Irene Campbell of the Department of 
Financial Aid met with the fifteen appli­
cants in a round table discussion in which 
each woman student presented a different 
way in which she would personally utilize 
the funds provided by the award.
Barbara, a self-defined major in film and 
other non-print media, plans to make use 
of the award through attending C-MU’s 
summer study session in Mexico beginning 
May 10. Professor Jose L. Varela-lbarra of 
the Department of Modern Languages will 
be the director of the program in which 
students will be allowed to concentrate on 
either the language or the literature of 
Mexico, or a self-defined project.
Commenting on the receipt of the 
award, Ms. Freeman said, “The most im­
pressive aspect of this award is its restric­
tion that the recipient be a woman. It 
provides a learning experience not often 
available to most women.”
ENTROPY’S
(the new Skibo service store)
GRsND OPENING
this Wednesday thru Saturday
Enter our give-a-way contest by depositing your cash register 
receipt at the ENTROPY.
WE ARE OPEN: DAILY 11 A.M. to 10 P.M. 
EXCEPT SATURDAY 12 NOON TO 8 P.M.
FEATURING:
DAILY PRESS
SUNDAY PRESS, TIMES, POST
MAGAZINES
DRUGS
HEALTH & BEAUTY 
POSTAGE STAMPD 
GREETING CARDS
SNACK FOODS 
PENNY CANDY 
CANDY BARS 
CIGARS 
CIGARETTES 
DETERGENTS 
LAUNDRY STAMPS 
STATIONERY

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 5, 1974
Focus on Tenure: Part II"this incredible machinery...
ff
by A. Adler
On the wall in the History Department 
office in Baker Hall, there is a drawing by 
Grant Wood of two tall, rather spectral 
scholars conferring scholastic honors upon 
a pudgier third. What makes the drawing 
ambiguous is that one of the tall men could 
either be adorning the conferee with 
honorary robes or preparing to strangle 
him.
Which brings us to the subject of recent 
tenure procedures and the question the 
campus has begun to ask: does the tenure 
process at C-MU confirm academic excell­
ence or strangle it? The case of John Ren- 
aldo, an associate professor of History who 
has been denied tenure, in no way answers 
this question, but it does make the ambig­
uity more apparent.
Renaldo, who specializes in the period 
of the Renaissance and has taught in Italy 
as a Fulbright Lecturer, was recommended 
for indefinite tenure by his Department, 
having received a score of 2.62 (out of a 
possible 3.0) from his Departmental tenure 
committee. Professor Ludwig Schaefer, 
chairman of History and Philisophy, wrote 
of Renaldo that he “is one of the most 
effective teachers in the Depart­
ment ... He belongs ... to the small 
group of particularly outstanding teachers 
within the College of Humanities and 
Social Sciences.” Schaefer went on to cite 
Renaldo’s unusually high A Phi 0 ratings 
and characteristically positive student re­
sponse.
While conceding that Renaldo’s reputa­
tion had not yet become nationally pro­
minent, Schaefer wrote that “the respect 
shown him by peers in Italy is unmistake- 
able” and predicted that Renaldo “is on his 
way toward establishing his mark among 
historians in his field.”
Schaefer’s recommendation, along with 
the rest of Renaldo’s “packet,” was sent on 
to the H&SS Tenure and Promotions Com­
mittee, where Renaldo’s qualifications 
were met somewhat more cooly. Here the 
Departmental 2.62 was reduced to a 2.14.
A memo by Beekman Cottrell, chairman 
of the H&SS committee, attributes this de­
cline in enthusiasm “in part” to a “mixed” 
response among committee members to a 
videotaped lecture by Renaldo. Cottrell 
remarked that the A Phi O ratings and 
student feedback notwithstanding, several 
committee members felt that the video­
taped lecture “was not an outstanding per­
formance.”
Cottrell also wrote, “The Committee 
took note of the fact that the Department 
of History was not unanimous in support 
of tenure for Renaldo,” and added, “Ren­
aldo has published, but in a fairly narrow 
historical field.”
The Dean of H&SS, Erwin Steinberg, 
recommended against awarding tenure to 
Renaldo. Steinberg questioned the excell­
ence of Renaldo’s teaching, the stature of 
his reputation, and the possibility of judg­
ing his scholastic competence on the basis 
of a manuscript which, “although accepted 
for publication, has not yet been published 
and this is not yet widely evaluated.”
Steinberg’s veto held at higher echelons 
and Renaldo was denied tenure.
How did the enthusiastic recommend­
ation of Ludwig Schaefer become the 
skeptical denial of Erwin Steinberg? Re­
marked Steinberg, “You’re dealing with a
continuum between no good and excell­
ent ... and where on the continuum do 
you draw the line? Now that’s something 
on which honest men will honestly dis­
agree. And that’s what happens in all of 
these instances.”
But Renaldo claims that it is not a 
simple matter of .honest disagreement. He 
cites misrepresentations of his case, vague 
and “irrational” replies to his inquiries, an 
unclear and highly variable set of criteria, 
and a “Byzantine” system of tenure 
committees which confuse the faculty 
member and thwart the desires of his 
colleagues at the departmental level.
Renaldo found it necessary several times 
to correct what he called “major inaccura­
cies” which appeared in documents con­
nected with his tenure case. “The Dean 
(Steinberg) wrote up his recommendation, 
which was negative,” Renaldo stated in a 
recent interview. “I understand that certain 
errors were pointed out to the Dean by the 
College Committee ... I saw the second 
copy of the document which contained 
still other errors regarding the nature of my 
book and publications. I pointed those 
errors out to him and he very reluctantly 
changed the document again, but did not 
change his recommendation . . . Each time, 
the records were changed but the recom­
mendation was not.” Renaldo further 
claimed, “What the Dean said at one point 
was that ... six years after getting my 
Ph.D. I finally published my thesis. Well, 
that’s a very serious allegation to make, 
because it indicates that in six years I’ve 
had no professional growth at all. It was 
not true ... and it took a month to get 
him to change that.”
In addition, Renaldo asserts that he was 
the victim of a very nebulous set of cri­
teria. His letters of recommendation were 
iejected by Dean Steinberg, he said, be­
cause of their authors: “Two of them were 
not from ‘important’ schools; two of them 
were only associate professors and . .. one 
of them . . . was an Italian. It’s the kind of 
situation wher*e they say, ‘Well, here are 
the criteria.’ And you fulfill the criteria 
and they say, ‘Changed 'em!’ ” Renaldo’s
strongest charge deals with the very nature 
of the tenure system at C-MU and the 
question of who is qualified to judge a 
faculty member. “Certainly on this cam­
pus,” Renaldo stated, “my (departmental) 
colleagues know better than anyone else 
how I perform better in a classroom— be­
cause they get my students. If I teach 
freshmen, they get them over four years; if
I teach majors, they get them in other 
courses.. . They get my students, not 
somebody in GSIA or Fine Arts or what 
have you. And, also, these are people who 
know the vocabulary that I work with .. . 
the idiom I work in. They’re more quali­
fied to make any judgment about my pro­
fessional standing. So I don’t know what 
you need all these committees for. The 
rationale is (that) they’re all policing and 
controls. Well, at a certain point you have 
to say, i have faith in the professional 
judgment of my faculty’ . . . What do you 
need a college committee to check on the 
Department for? Do you think that they’re
so small-minded that they’re going to con­
sistency crap on the junior faculty? You 
do need some kind of a check, but you 
don’t need this incredible machinery.” 
Professor Schaefer concurred in part. 
“I’m not sure at the present time how 
much Departmental decisions count in the 
whole process. I would like to see them 
count a lot more. But I also know that in 
order to have them count a lot more, 
Departments have to take the responsibil­
ity of sharing in this decision more on their 
own shoulders.”
President Cyert, defending C-MU’s cur­
rent system of a pyramidal arrangement of 
tenure review committees at the various 
levels of organization (i.e., Departmental, 
College, University), remarked that “If you 
don’t have it, then you have little inside 
jobs. Somebody’s very popular in the De­
partment, the Dean’s convinced, and you 
just get a lot of lousy decisions that way. 
This (committee structure) is part of a 
whole due process to see whether good 
decisions are being made.”
As to Renaldo’s charges concerning cri­
teria, Dean Steinberg stated, “Nobody ever 
said that an Italian scholar’s word is not 
adequate. It may be that the words some­
how don’t carry any meaning. But it’s not 
because people didn’t try to explain. You 
know, if you say to a man, for example, 
‘The University Committee feels because of 
such and such .. . your research is not ade­
quate,’ and there you come to a break­
down . . . it’s a matter of judgment.”
In reference to Renaldo’s claims con­
cerning errors in the documents associated 
with his case, Steinberg argued, “He (Ren­
aldo) saw my document and he saw the 
committee document, and he came over 
and talked to me about it. And, because he 
felt that statements were wrongg . . . they 
were changed. So when the statements 
went to the University Committee (one 
step above Steinberg in tenure proceedings) 
any changes he had asked for in the docu­
ments were, in fact, made. So it seems to 
me that that shows that in fact faculty 
members do know what’s happening.” 
Associate Professor Renaldo said that he 
considered the decision to refuse him ten­
ure to be “irreversible.”
BOEING-VERTOL COMPANY
Will Be Conducting 
ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS 
on March 19th, 1974 
OPENINGS AVAILABLE FOR:
• MECHANICAL ENGINEERS 
• AERONAUTICAL ENGINEERS 
• CIVIL ENGINEERS 
• ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS
. . . WITH INTEREST IN THE AREA OF: Flying 
qualities. Aerodynamics performance,
Stress, Engineering labs., Electrical design, 
Electronic systems.
Positions are located with the Boeing-Vertol Company in subur­
ban Philadelphia (Delaware County.)
Other engineering openings are also available at the Boeing 
Commercial Airplane Company and Aerospace Company in Seat­
tle, Washington.
To Arrange ConvenientInterview CONTACT YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICER
An Equal Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 5, 1974—Page 11
Change and
nta Note: This is the first part of a two part inteview dealing with Tech House—it's origins and 
its present. Next week: a round-table interview with the student residents.
by Mary Co win
Father Phillip Walsh was born and educated in the midwest. While 
living in Chicago, he became interested in the educational theories of 
Robert M. Hutchings, and subsequently those of John Henry Newman, 
whose idea had been “not to form clubs (such as proliferated across the 
United States) but to form residences where students and possibly some 
faculty of different disciplines would live together. ” His educational 
interests led to his involvement in the restoration of the English language 
to the liturgy, to his founding the Vernacular Society of America, to the 
position of Consultant for Religion Programming for NBL, and to the 
present experiment in Pittsburgh with the Oratory and with C-MU’s Tech 
House.
Tech House was originated six years ago by Father Walsh and six C-MU 
students. Basing the experiment on Cardinal Newman's ideas, they began 
by renting houses in the area. Two years ago they were able to get a house 
on campus on Margaret Morrison Street.
Father Walsh is the Catholic chaplain at C-MU. A man oj many talents, 
he has also done work in sculpture and poetry and has recently taken up 
photography. He states that his main “occupational therapy"is literature.
He was a friend of the late writer Evelyn Waugh and maintains close ties 
with author J. D. Salinger.
TARTAN: Father Walsh, how did you come to hold the position of 
Catholic chaplain here?
Father Walsh: Bishop Wright set up a special parish which consists of Pitt, 
Carnegie-Mellon and Chatham. I’m pastor for C-MU. But this is just a legal 
matter. It means that I can perform marriages, and so forth. This is strictly 
an experimental parish-just for people who want to belong.
TARTAN: Would you explain a little bit about the Oratory ?
Father Walsh: The Oratory is a group which was founded in the late 
Renaissance. Cardinal Newman founded it in England. The members work 
in the universities. It appealed to him because it was on a collegiate level 
and the members are elected. He wanted the Oratory to be part of the 
university, not just a house where people are constantly moving in and 
out...
TARTAN: What exactly is your role here at Tech House?
Father Walsh: First, let me explain that this is not set up as a “religious 
house,” though we do provide room for services. It is not restricted by 
taith to any one religion. We have experimental things like the Saturday 
night liturgy, whoch people from the music department have been helping 
with. Those people, too, have varied religious backgrounds.
I’m a resident here, as the others, with no more rights than they have. 
Except that I do have more time. So if faculty or students want to start a 
discussion group, I have more time to help them. But everyone here works 
on those things if they want to.
TARTAN: What kinds of people do you attract to Tech House? Do you 
advertise for residents?
Father Walsh: No. The people we usually attract are people who’ve 
already been involved in bringing students and faculty closer together. In 
other words, the people we attract are people who don't want a closed 
group.
TARTAN: Are there any special programs scheduled during the week '
Father Walsh: We have scheduled now, for the first and third Wednesday 
of every month, a buffet dinner in which the people who come take turns
The first goal of a house must be to have a home, so the residents are 
of prune importance. After that, we like evems that mix everybody. and 
there are special interests which also have to be acknowledged.
7
Tech House is in any kind of conflict with the competitiveness of a 
university in which the emphasis is on individual achievement and pro­
fessionalism?"
Father Walsh. The people here are very professionally oriented and veiy 
competitive in their fields. We have a music major and an architect . . . 
and it works out quite well. 1 do think the competitiveness is a problem, 
though.
the Chaplain
TARTAN: / was thinking more in terms of Tech House’s relationship with 
the university. Is it difficult to get people together for the buffet dinners, 
discussions and other events?
Father Walsh: No, those work well.
TARTAN: Do you have a mixture of people in different departments?
Father Walsh: Yes. We used to have just scientists, but now we have a 
good mixture.
TARTAN: “Just scientists?”
Father Walsh: Yes. Somehow we used to end up with nothing but 
engineers. I have a theory about that. I think that they learn to think 
more. And they become more interested in relating their fields to others. 
But maybe I’m just talking about exceptional people, like the people who 
really started the house six years ago. They were all either EE or Physics 
majors.
This was also a weakness, though. There has to be a mixture. Again, 
this was Newman’s idea. When Paul Mellon spoke here at the time 
“Carnegie Tech" was changed to “Carnegie-Mellon University,” that was 
his text-Newman, and the id^a of restoring the full circle of knowledge. 
This is the idea of the “university” . . .
But how do you achieve this goal with the highly competitive and 
professionally oriented departments? This has been one of the ongoing 
questions that the really good teachers and students are concerned with.
Newman said that the way to achieve this was to live with people of 
different fields. You couldn’t learn every subject thoroughly but you 
could learn all of them to some extent by living with people who were 
studying them. American Universities are founded on the German 
principle of a university, the lecture system. But if you go to Europe, you 
can see how much further along we have come. This is because we have 
taken on a tremendous idea of universal education. In Germany, a student 
may be in a class of 400 and never have a chance to meet his professor. In 
France, very few people have the chance to go to college. In England, 
when you’re eleven your whole family is in terror because the exam you 
take then will determine whether you can go to college or be a waiter at 
Claridge’s. . .
A lot of our problems are the result of the breadth of the experiment 
with universal education that was begun in the United States. And the 
experiment is still going on.
TARTAN: You see it as an experiment. . .
Father Walsh: I think America is an experiment.
TARTAN: You seem to be active in the intra-universitv discussions 
concerning values and ethics. When you spoke at the Exorcist symposium, 
you seemed to be concerned with change in the university itself, and «me 
of the questions of good and evil here. Could you give some of the 
< t i>,mr eon, cm'' What d(< vott Kee that might be changed here? speai > ' f 
Father Walsh: I think that change has to come about on a small scale. 
There are two important things to consider Students should have more to 
say about who teaches them and what courses they take. Back in the 60 s 
that was the big thing power. But that has to presuppose that the student 
is learning... that he’s learning how to think. The second area is 
structural change in terms of new forms of learning and communication. 
However, ycu can never think that structural change is a total solution.
And change has to begin on a voluntary level. You can write in changes
in the institutional level, but the actual change must be small and de-continued on p. 12

---------------------------------------------------

•age 12-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 5, 1974
CMU's "Value Crisis"
continued from page 11
pendent on persons. It’s the same way in the Catholic church. A pope can 
make all the decisions in the world, but it’s such a big structure that those 
decisions may not affect it. Starting with small experimental groups 
which, if they fail, can’t hurt the structure, you can create changes.
You can’t have a messianic complex. You can’t think that you have all 
the answers. But if you begin with small groups and try to make a change, 
then those groups grow up alongside or with your megastructure. I think 
that this is the only way change is going to be accomplished.
TARTAN: What was your first reaction to Dean Swank’s memo of a 
couple of months ago, dealing with what he felt to be a “value crisis”on 
this campus? What did you immediately think of in terms of a “value 
crisis” here?
Father Walsh: I have trouble with words like that: “value crisis.” I think 
my reaction was that if by “value crisis” we mean, are many people here 
confused as to the real meaning of existance and whether it involves any 
other goal besides getting through school and getting a job, that’s a real 
value crisis. College is supposed to be a place where you have enough 
time for leisure, time to think about the meaning of and possibilities for 
your existence.
By the time most people get to college, it’s too late. They’re locked 
into a system that has gone from grammar school through high school, as 
to what thinking is, what education is and what living is. This is reinforced 
by our dependence on technology ... by the whole change in society in 
the last couple of centuries.
Putting myself in the position of a student coming into the university 
now, the big thing would be “How do 1 get a job when I get out?” This is 
destructive of the original concept of education. When universities began, 
they tended to be communities of people who thought together. People 
went from city to city because there was a great teacher there. They 
didn’t have these tremendously complex courses and the credit system.
They had exams, and maybe they were tougher. They were oral exams to 
see if you could think yet.
But exams weren’t information tests. People were not thought of as 
information tanks and tested to see what they’d stored up. Whatever you 
memorize you forget anyway. The objective of exams was to see whether 
a person could think on his feet yet. When he could, it was felt, he could 
face most situations in life.
In any institution, people tend to forget that they consititute the 
institution. It’s easy to see what’s wrong, but it’s difficult to accomplish 
even a small good. That’s why most people tend to be armchair critics.
Like people watching the Superbowl: everyone’s in the grandstand or 
armchair. The whole passive nature of our society . . . that’s a problem 
with all of us. It’s easier to watch .
Love and action involve one’s self. I think that starting with something 
like Tech House is taking a fundamental step toward those.
Cyerh Named h& 6sTF H&n&rary
President Richard Cyert has been named 
as one of three Pittsburgh educators and 
civic leaders to the Honorary Committee 
for the Fiftieth Anniversary Year Cele­
bration of the Graphic Arts Technical 
Foundation.
“The purpose of the Honorary 
Committee is to aid in the promotion of 
GATF during its Fiftieth Anniversary Year 
Celebration in 1974. It will be comprised 
of some 50 distinguished men representing 
companies and organizations with long­
standing relationships with the Founda­
tion. These men will lend their names 
through this Committee as an endorsement 
of the aims of the Anniversary Celebration 
and Graphic Arts Technical Foundation,” 
explained Co-Chairman Andrew McNally 
III, current president of GATF and Rand 
McNally & Co. and Paul Lyle, former 
GATF president and formerly of Western 
Publishing Co. in Wisconsin.
GATF is a member-supported, 
non-profit, scientific, technical, and 
educational organization serving the inter­
national graphic communications 
industries. Its headoua'ters are in Pitts-
photo by Courtney Larson
The Bookshelf
Editors Note: The Bookshelf, a new feature of the TARTAN, will be run 
weekly. We invite review contributions from undergrads and grad stu­
dents. They should be addressed to Shelley Burhans, Features Editor- 
TARTAN, Room 50, Skibo.
fanatics, a crone driving a goat cart, and a 
Nickel Mountain variety of in-laws. Gardner gives one the
by John Gardner sense that these figures are there to step
1973 Alfred Knopf forward and attempt to break Henry’s
-$6.95 passion for mercy. Inhabiting the isolated
pockets of modern-day mountain country, 
by Emily Rheinhardt they are revealed as separate, quirky
beings. Gardner openly shows us their 
In an issue of “Newsweek” last year on neuroses, but at the same time, Simon 
“The Arts” Donald Barthelme named his Bale, the fanatical evangelist, and a 
favorite contemporary writers of Fiction, nomadic old woman who travels by goat 
He added gratuitously that John Gardner, power, are both dealt with as distinct 
author of The Sunlight Dialogues and individuals rather than “freaks”. It is 
Grendel, was unreadable. among these people that Henry maintains
In his new novel Nickel Mountain his personal sense of justice and mercy, 
Gardner is not so much unreadable as he is often in opposition to their sometimes 
confined within the boundaries of pastoral harsh judgements and demands, 
writing, something we are not accustomed The novel succeeds as both a modern
to. His subjects are simple mountain pastoral and as a dynamic revelation of one 
people, barely touched by the mid- man’s maturing vision of humanity. Henry 
twentieth century society that surrounds Soames appears at the start with jumbled 
them. As is typical of most literature in the thoughts of charity and mercy and is des- 
pastoral form, the simplicity of the cribed as being “like a lion converted to 
characters is deliberate and Gardner uses Christianity”. He is unsure of what to do 
them to make an artistic statement dealing with his love of mankind and embarassed 
with (the validity of) the simple truths that to show it. Gardner’s is an adept characteri- 
emanate from those characters. Their ways zation, showing Henry gathering a slow, 
of dealing with minor upsets and major monumental strength. From an emotional 
catastrophes are graced with strength of mountain of jellied flesh Henry becomes a 
will and equanimity, and their innocent glowing Buddha calmly accepting both the 
spirit reduces human experience into cruelties and the joys of life. He un­
manageable proportions. blinkingly accepts the nervous rationaliza-
Gardner’s hero, Henry Soames, is the tion of a guilt-ridden friend as easily as he 
central figure from whom we gather this basks in the pre-dawn light of the new 
sense of inner calm. The story centers home he builds for Callie. Gardner shows 
around the love between this fat owner of us a simple, merciful character, and we 
a combination diner and gas pump oasis, believe that character because (we) have 
and Callie, a young waitress. Nickel watched him grow.
Mountain is the mythical and starkly Throughout the novel Gardner’s sub­
beautiful backdrop for the story. Where ordinate characters compliment Henry’s 
Highway 98 touches the crest of a hill, growing peace with himself, exhibiting the 
Henry’s restaurant, the Stop-Off, offers anguish of those who have lost their faith 
refuge for weary truckers, lost travelers, or who cling to the vestiges of a tired 
and occasional drunks. Though Henry lacks religion. They intone pathetic pleas to 
a cirtain mental complexity, he makes up God, while Henry draws on his ever- 
for it with an almost magical perseverence increasing store of faith, not in God, but in 
in the face of life’s cruelties. human spirit, accepting its unpredictability
From the start we are shown his feverish yet having faith in its invincibility. This is 
compassion for the downtrodden. The un- his unique formula for survival, and the 
fortunate are his specialty, and he is “ready weighty truth that Gardner gives to us 
to be nailed for them”. His “huge stupid through contrasting the central figure of 
Love of Man” extends to all those near his pastoral with a surrounding battery of 
him, beginning with the teenaged Callie, weaker figures.
who works for him. She becomes pregnant The novel works as a pastoral, given the 
by a “fly-by-night” high school friend, and sense of a fully developed central character 
Henry, who has had a sort of affection for and that character’s simplicity of vision, 
her all along, feels it proper that he marry essentials (to a pastoral work). As well, 
her. The marriage gives him the image he Nickel Mountain is an engaging demon- 
desires, that of provider and constant com- stration of the significance of a simpler 
forter. existence. Combined, these qualities make
Henry and Callie are surrounded by a John Gardner’s latest work both readable 
collection of local farmers, religious and recommended.
The Back Door
university coffeehouse 
Brings Back
Hogan’s Heroes - 
a barbershop quartet
! FRIDAY, MARCH 22 10 p.m. -1 a.m.
no admission charge Rodef Shalom Basement
food Corner 5th and Morewood
Entrance — Rear Parking Lot

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 5, 1974-Page 13
SUMMER 
SESSIONS CMU1974
During the summer, 1974 there will be two 
six-week sessions, as follows:
1st Six-Week Session 
May 14—June 21
Regular Undergraduate Courses
THE TUITION WILL BE 
$20 PER UNIT
2nd Six-Week Session 
June 24—August 2
Pre-College Program, CFA 
Advanced Placement/Early 
Admission Program 
Upward Bound 
Graduate Courses (English 
and History)
The regular eight-week summer session has 
been discontinued. The dates for that ses­
sion should be deleted from your university 
calendar. The date for the registration of 
graduate students who continue on thesis 
research during the summer will be an­
nounced.
The 1st Six-Week summer session will start 
on May 14 and end on June 21. A selection 
of regular undergraduate courses will be 
offered.
The following is the tentative list of courses 
to be offered. The actual courses to be 
offered will depend on the student re­
sponse.
Please give your tentative reply by 
March 10.
Name.
Local Address.
I am interested in the following courses
1.
I 2
Please return this coupon to:
I Director of Summer Programs
Room 216 Warner Hall 
\ Carnegie Mellon University
I Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213
I
I Class schedules wili be announced after it -is I
• determined which courses will be offered. I
Tentative Undergraduate ^
courses for Carnegie -Mel IonUniversity
Summer Programs
Statistics: 36-211 Probability and Applied Statistics I9 units(1)36-219 Statistical Methods for Data Analysis I9 units(1)
MIS
Chemistry:09-105 Elem. Physical Chemical Principles9 units(1)09-106 Bonding and Structural Principles9 units(2)
09-117 Organic Chemistry I9 units(1)09-218 Organic Chemistry 119 units(2)
09-243 Physical Chemistry II9 units(1)
Math:21-121 Calculus I9 units(1)21 -122 Calculus 119 units(1)21-141 Linear Algebra9 units, (1)21-142 Foundations of Analysis9 units(1)21-259 Higher Math of Engin. and Science I9 units(1)21-260 Higher Math of Engin. and Science II9 units(1)21-440 Number Theory9 units(1)21-485 Mathematical Models9 units(1)21-251 Ordinary Differential Equations9 units(1)
Physics:33-122 Physics II: Elec. and Mag. (Prob. Self-Paced)9 units(1)33-121 Physics I: Mechanics (Prob. Self-Paced)9 units(1)
AMS:70 363 Law in Modern American Society9 units(1)
H&SS
Economics: 73 100 Econ. Anal, and Cont. Prob. I12 units(1)73-200 Econ. Growth and Fluctuations12 units(1)73-250 Resource Alloc, in Market Econ.12 units(1)
English:76-321 Shakespeare12 units(1)76-406 Modern Novel12 units(1)76-411 Intro, to the Reading of Poetry & Short Fiction12 units(1)76-580 Composition: Expository Writing12 units(1)
History:79-291 Twentieth Century America12 units(1)
79-----The American Ethnic Experience12 units(1)
79-500 Power And Values in the Modern World12 units(1)
79-505 The Development of the Modern Mind12 units(1)
79-506 Revolutionary Change in the Modern World12 units(1)
79-----Culture and the Arts in Modern Europe12 units(1)
79-515 Science in Our Culture9 units(2)
79-662 Freedom and Authority: Intro, to Pol. Phil.12 units(1)
79-102 The Shaping of Western Civilization II12 units(2)
79-103 American Civilization12 units(2)
Modern Languages and Literature:
Tutorial Translation Workshops:
82-620 Translation Workshop: French 
82-630 Translation Workshop: German 
82-650 Translation Workshop: Russian
Programmed basic language skills courses:
82-107 Programmed French 
82-123 Programmed German 
82-143 Programmed Spanish
6-12 units 
6-12 units 
6-12 units
Up to 18 units 
Up to 18 units 
Up to 18 units
MUSIC
57-----
57 181
57-209,
57 210,
57-223,
57-223,
57-267,
57-275,
57-335,
57-405,
57-407,
57 447
57-449,
57 471,
57 475
57-477,
57-478,
57-499
Individual Lessons: Piano, Organ, Vocal, Instrumental
Ear Training and Sight Singing
809 Seminar on Stravinsky
810 Seminar on Schoenberg, Berg and Webern 
823 Piano Ensemble (Duo Piano Teams)
823 Piano Ensemble 
799 Composition 
826 Piano Pedagogy 
835 Choral Techniques 
805 Keyboard Literature 
865 Form and Analysis 
Score Reading
761 Advanced Keyboard Musicianship 
733 Band Scoring 
Vocal Pedagogy
893 Song Literature
894 Song Literature 
Vocal Coaching
3
6
6
3.6
3.6
6,9
6
6
6
6
3
3
6
3
3
3
6
PAINTING AND SCULPTURE
51-179 Calligraphy 
60-250 & 60 750 Ceramics 
60 229 Color 
60 380 & 60-780 
60-335 & 60-735 
60 256 & 60-756 
60 240 & 60 740 
60 151 Drawing
60 250 & 60 750 
60 228 & 60 728 
60 346 & 60 746 
60-331 & 60 731 
60 262 & 60 762
Contemporary Art 
Lithography 
Metalcrafts 
Photography
Ceramics
Painting
Glassblowing
Serigraphy
Sculpture
60 268 & 60768 Weaving
(1) * First Session: May 14-June 21; (21 * S«cond Session: June 24-Aug. 2; * Tuition $26 per un»t
units
units
units
units
units
units
units
units
units
units
units
units
units
units
units
units
units
9 units 
9 units 
9 units 
9 units 
9 units 
9 units 
9 units 
9 units
9 units 
9 units 
9 units 
9 units 
9 units 
9 units
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(1)
(2r 
(2r 
(2)1 
(2)' 
(2r 
(2)< 
(2r 
(2r 
(2 y 
(2r 
(2) 
(2 y 
(2) 
(2)' 
(2) 
(2r 
(2) 
(2)

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14 THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 5, 1974
PABSTGood old-time flavor. The way beer was meant to be.
The Ohher 
Tuesday
by Tom Kendig
Dean of Students Earle Swank. Vice 
President of Academic Affairs Edmund 
Schatz. and Head of the Division of Opera­
tions Ronald Rutledge, appeared at the 
Activitiy Board's Every Other Tuesday 
Afternoon Forum on February 19.
Dean Swank’s statements were short, 
pointing out some of the responsibilities of
Student Affairs such as athletics and assist­
ing students with their problems.
Dr. Rutledge's statement was more ex­
tensive. He spoke on his ideas on the type 
of security force that C-MU has and what it 
is expected to do. According to Dr. Rut­
ledge. the C-MU Security Force is to be a 
park ranger-type security force, move 
friendly and helpful, making use of the 
Pittsburgh Police for serious crimes. Rut­
ledge reported that Security is currently 
starting a safety program. He mentioned 
how Operations is “reducing its expend­
itures in the non-primary part of the 
Operations" in such ways as more efficient 
cleaning. Food service, it was reported, will 
probably loose S30.000 this year as op­
posed to S60.000 last year. Dr. Rutledge 
attributed this increase in financial respon­
sibility to Rita Cohen, the Director of 
Food Service. “She did it basically with a 
lot of long hard work," commented Rut­
ledge. Rutledge also disclosed that Food 
Service has engaged a consulting firm and is 
paying for the service.
Several studies on the state of Physical 
Plant were done, according to Rutledge, 
and the University has decided to allocate 
more than 1 million dollars a year on main­
tenance. A study is also being done on the 
present state of the steam tunnels. It was 
assumed by Rutledge that this study would 
indicate that the tunnels were in need of 
safety improvements.
This is when the long hours of 
practice pay off. When you know 
you’re as good as you can be. 
When you can enjoy it, the way it 
was meant to be.
It’s the same with Pabst Blue 
Ribbon—it takes a lot of time, pa­
tience and skill to create our good 
old-time flavor.
Pabst—it’s the way beer was 
meant to be.
When asked about improvements for­
merly suggested for Skibo, Dr. Rutledge 
commented, “What really should be done 
with Skibo is tear it down.”
Dr. Schatz’s comments dealt with the 
purpose of his office which is to serve as 
educational director. He also discussed Uni­
versity tenure policy. According to Dr. 
Schatz, there is presently no system to 
determine how many faculty should get 
tenured. Tenure decisions are very import­
ant, commented Schatz, since tenure is a 
lifetime contract. Schatz indicated that 
while students look at tenure decisions as 
short-termed the University has to view it 
as a long-term decision, thus accounting for 
some of the controversy.
® Copyright 1974, PABST BREWING COMPANY, Milwaukee, Wis.. Peoria Heights. III.. Newark, N.J., Los Angeles, Calif., Pabst, Georgia.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—Tuesday, March 5, 1974—Page 15
Unit Change In Sight
continued from p. 1
higher percentages of H&SS students 
agreed with statements such as, “It is fairly 
easy to pass most courses without working 
very hard,” and “standards set by the pro­
fessors are not very hard to achieve.”
The second study was done by Psych 
Department Professor Jim Korn, who 
studied a random sample of this year’s 
H&SS freshman class, and found that “to a 
majority of our students ... the college ex­
perience did not represent a major change 
educationally or emotionally. Many were 
initially disappointed, did not feel C-MU 
was sufficiently prestigious and found the 
freshman curriculum to lack innovation, 
color or interest.”
Also taken into consideration was the 
fact that faculty and administrators of CIT, 
MIS and CFA have told Dean Steinberg 
that 12 unit H&SS courses do not fit con­
veniently into the programs of those 
colleges and that nine unit H&SS courses 
would serve better, and that students in 
Steinberg’s Literary Imagination course (all 
non H&SS) simply did not have the time for 
more than 3 or 4 hours of out-of-class 
preparation a week.
Some members of the College Council 
also argued that since the average H&SS 
student takes 4.5 courses a semester, rather 
than the suggested 4, with some depart­
ments averaging as high as 5.5, students 
would not be burdened by taking five 9 
unit courses a semester, that many students 
wanted to take more than 4 courses a 
semester, and finally, that the experiment 
of having students carry four 12 unit cour­
ses rather than five 9 unit courses “has 
been demonstrated inappropriate or un­
successful” (quote from the Council min­
utes).
A number of academic groups are dis­
cussing the proposal in meetings this week. 
Yesterday the English undergraduate com­
mittee and the H&SS Faculty Committee
Texas Instruments
electronic calculators
aath8Su2Hb"y»«¦an,54.99
held meetings. Today the English Depart­
ment Steering Committee and the various 
Student Advisory Committees are meeting. 
On Wednesday, President Cyert is meeting 
with student SAC heads.
Some departments have been consider­
ing the change to nine units for some time, 
and one—Economics—has already made the 
switch.
Some possible side-effects of the pro­
posed change, arising from speculation at 
the College Council meeting, in the memo 
accompanying the announcement of yes­
terday’s H&SS faculty meeting, and in con­
versations with H&SS students and faculty 
are:
-A reinstitution of pre-requisites for 
courses in Departments which do not have 
such pre-requisites now. This would be 
done so that advanced courses for majors 
could be segregated to an extent, so that 
the courses could proceed on a higher level 
than can be done when a course contains 
lower-classmen and non- majors.
-Some faculty members would be 
asked to teach a third course in some 
semesters, since a base load of 5 courses for 
each student would require a greater over­
all number of courses.
—Confusion in carrying out the specifics 
of the change. Each department must de­
cide which courses it wishes to change to 9 
units, and readjust accordingly, in terms of 
unit-requirements for graduation, teacher 
loads, and administration. “There’s liable 
to be some confusion, and the departments 
are going to have to watch that for 
awhile?’? said Steinberg.
Phihp S. Wiener
The PINNACLE of Pizza Parlors
• The BEST Pizza in Pgh. •
1) Dough & sauce made fresh daily on 
the premises—pre-packaged shells 
are not used.
2) Only the best (fresh) ingredients 
are used.
3) Owner operated—Ma cares.
4) Cleanliness is maintained.WE DELIVERCentre at Craig621-6755
Playgr&und
Planned
by Tom Schwartz
Though it’s not official yet, a new play­
ground designed to entertain students, 
faculty, or any other interested party will 
be hopefully planned and put into opera­
tion soon.
According to Ken Neely, a campus 
chaplain, and Sue Christian, Assistant 
Director of Student Activities, the play­
ground’s main purpose will- be to alleviate 
the frustrations which inevitably build up 
in an academic situation.
The plan for the playground will be 
brought up to the General Campus Com­
mittee of Student Senate and if they 
approve it, Student Senate can act on the 
approval. -
The playground will utilize materials 
such as old tires and other easily obtainable 
items. The playground will be designed by 
C-MU Design and Architecture students. 
Both these factors are an attempt to cut 
down on expenses.
The playground will be mobile and the 
' individual parts will be interchangeable. If 
a part of the playground is becoming too 
blase to people, it can be easily replaced 
for another.
According to Neeley and Christian, 
there are academic implications to the pro­
ject. The Design and Architecture students 
designing the playground not only get 
practical experience for their upcoming 
professions, but this can also lead to recog­
nition and possible independent study 
credits.
goals
BATTERY-OPERATED 
PORTABLE CALCULATOR
• Add», subtract», multiplies, di­
vides.
• Easy to operate — with 10 digit 
keys, decimal key, C function keys.
• 8-digit display, chom, constont
switch. TI-2510
• 5.5x3*1.7", lO-oi. With case.
Sorry ....
No moil or 
phone orders
NoW^^Ti^^ Limited 
quantity
flectronic Printing Calc .. $1 99.95
¡i wmSale 79.95 11,,u is 11 (mmSale 69.95 nn» m ¦n
ELECTRONIC SLIDE RULES - UNICOM - SHARP - ETC SSt UP
229 Atwood Street 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213 
Tel (412) 683-0313 '
ngineermg
All Freshmen are Invited 
to Discuss the Central 
Role of Mechanical 
Engineers in Solving 
Problems of Society 
Tuesday March 12,1974 
Scaife Hall 322 
3.30 PM • Refreshments
goals
goals
The President’s Goals of the University 
Committee, founded and chaired by Tanya 
Allmond, president of Student Govern­
ment, is looking for student input concern­
ing the President’s Goals of the University 
Document.
“We’re concerned about making sure 
the document deals with student needs 
outside of academic needs,” said Ms. All­
mond.
The group meets every two weeks and is 
discussing such topics as Security, Housing, 
Food Service and student morale, and ways 
the Goals of the University can reflect 
these.
The committee is composed of under­
graduate and graduate students represent­
ing a number of academic majors. In this 
way the committee hopes to be able to 
deal with specific departmental academic 
issues.
A rough draft of proposals and re­
commendations is planned for mid-March. 
The final draft will be presented after 
Spring Break.
The committee is looking for input and 
ideas from all students. If you wish to 
participate, contact Tanya Allmond, or one 
of the following committee members: Bob 
Hall, Sr., MIS; Bob Weinheimer, Sr., CIT; 
Nancy Spies, Sr., CFA; Linda Yellin, 
Soph., MIS, Karen Fredricson, Jr., CIT; 
Warren Winter, Fr., CFS; Marcia Aber­
nathy, Fr., H&SS; Glenn Hanna, Jr., H&SS; 
Phil Koltum and William Dunstan, both 
grad students.
EVERY DAY 
OF THE WEEKSAVE AT EMERSONS
Each Adult Member of Your Party
PITCHER 
OF BEER
INCLUDED IN PRICE OF MEAL
-------------PLUS-------------
ALL THE SALAD 
YOU CAN MAKE
-------------PLUS-------------
OUR TENDER JUICY
SIRLOIN 
STEAKBURGER
ALL FOR JUST$2.95
More than Vi lb. of 
Ground Steak with 
French Fries
ep EMERSONS, Ltd.
unlimited steak dinners
NORTH HILLS. PA. 931-6706
4611 MeKmght Road
MONROEVILLE. PA 824 1440
3500 William Penn Highway (Rt. 22)
m y»vt of m

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16-THE TARTAN—Tuesday, March 5, 1974
Tenure
Demonstration
continued from p. 1
the situation.
“You know where the real power is,” 
said Irwin. “It’s not in Student Senate.”
The demonstration was informal and 
impromptu. According to Irwin, it was 
planned at 9:30 the night before. Irwin and 
Noble drafted the petitions concerning 
student participation and Brignano, but 
when another student came up during the 
protest and asked if he could circulate 
petitions concerning Reynaldo and Travis 
they readily gave him permission. At the 
end of the demonstration, all the petitions
photo by Ed Levine 
Dean Swank pickets for a favorite cause.
wound up in the hands of an English major 
whose name Irwin couldn't recall.
Irwin and Noble did not prepare a 
specific set of demands. About twenty 
minutes after the protest began, another 
student offered a typed list of demands, 
but Irwin and Noble refused to endorse it.
“Bear in mind here that a lot of what’s 
going on is not the view of the manage­
ment,” said Noble.
The students carrying the signs dis­
played varying degrees of knowledge of 
tenure policy.
One placard read, “Tenure on Ability 
not Politics.” When asked to explain what 
that meant, the girl who was carrying it 
said, “Damn . . . you’re going to quote my 
saying that I don’t know. I like the 
‘Quality in Teaching’ sign better.”
“I’m just here for the fun of it,” stated 
another student who was carrying a sign.
But other demonstrators knew exactly 
what they were protesting. A student who 
carried a placard bearing a single un­
adorned dollar sign listed a number of 
H&SS committees he had belonged to and 
recounted a detailed history of the changes 
in college policy that he has observed in 
the past four years. Another student 
reported having discussed tenure policy in­
formally with his department head even 
before the recent controversy arose.
The demonstration remained good 
natured throughout. At one point, Dean 
Swank carried one of the protest signs, a 
placard which read “Quality in Teaching.”
“You give me a sign supporting quality 
in teaching and to be at all honest I just 
have to carry it,” he said.
Dr. Cyert himself walked past the 
demonstrators on his way from Skibo to 
Warner Hall.
“He didn’t blink an eye,” reported a 
bystander.
Campus Sexism Discussed; 
Pitt Program Considered
“Before, there was nowhere to go to report 
sexist behavior and get something done.”
by Jan Lind berg
Recently a group of C-MU women stu­
dents got together with Susanne Downie, 
chairwoman of Pitt’s Ad Hoc Committee 
on Sexism in the Classroom, to discuss how 
women are perceived and responded to in 
the classroom. This meeting was an out­
growth of the Undergraduate Women’s 
Task Force to the Affirmative Action 
Office. A request was made by Ruth 
Beech, Head of the Affirmative Action 
Committee, to get input on the needs of 
undergraduate women on campus. This dis­
cussion was one aspect of the work being 
done by the task force to determine those 
needs.
The discussion covered a wide range of 
topics including personal experiences of 
the women, such as ridicule by professors 
in class, condescension towards questions 
asked by women, and the use of derog­
atory language when referring to women. 
Other areas discussed were the lack of 
women role models in text books, the 
stereotyped manner in which they are pre­
sented, such as the “dumb blond” and the 
perennial housewife or secretary, and the 
exclusion of women in language, i.e., the 
use of the generic terms he/him.
Susanne Downie described the goals of 
Pitt’s Ad Hoc Committee, which is an out­
growth of Pitt’s Women’s Studies program. 
The committee is presently devising a form 
which students may fill out to report cases 
of sexism within the university, and de­
veloping guidelines to determine what 
types of incidents to report. Definite pro­
cedures are now being developed to handle 
cases reported. This is to encompass both
the more blatant cases (such as women 
being openly ridiculed in class) and in­
cidents in which the party doesn’t seem to 
realize he or she is being discriminatory 
towards women.
“Ideally,” says Ms. Downie, “cases 
should be handled on a very personal 
level.” The major purpose of the com­
mittee is to allow students to report sexism 
within the university to the administration 
so action can be taken. “Before, there was 
nowhere to go to report sexist behavior 
and get something done,” says Downie.
Women’s groups and affirmative action 
committees on campuses nationwide are 
trying to deal with and change the limiting 
stereotypes concerning women’s roles and 
capabilities and to help women with 
specific problems concerning sexism in the 
classroom. The Task Force for the Affirm­
ative Action Committee at C-MU has been 
commissioned to develop programs to meet 
the needs of women on campus, but this 
can be done only with support from and 
input by students. The Task Force needs to 
determine the level of concern about part­
icular issues, and begin to set guidelines for 
handling problems that students encounter. 
Students can make the Task Force aware 
of their concerns by attending the meetings 
and discussion groups or by talking to Sue 
Christian in the Activities Office.
Any students interested in talking with 
other women on campus, bringing up 
specific problems they are having and 
developing a consciousness about the con­
cerns of women on campus and what can 
be done, should attend a discussion group 
on Wednesday, March 6 at 6:30 p.m. in 
Room 39 of Skibo.
B'NAI B'RITH HILLEL-JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
B'nai B'rith Hillel-Carnegie-Mellon University Concert to 
Celebrate B'nai B'rith Hillers 50th Anniversary
Presented by the Dept, of Music, College of Fine Arts, Carnegie-Mellon University
Sunday March 10 8:30 p.m. Carnegie Music Hall
Avodat Haodesh ("Sacred Service”) by Ernest Bloch, Carnegie-Mellon College 
Community Orchestra,
Chauncey V. Kelley, Conductor 
Carnegie-Mellon Cameron Choir, Donald G. Wilkins, Director 
Lee Cass, Bass Baritone 
Rabbi Phillip Sigal, Reciter
Concerto in G Minor for Organ, Strings, and Tympani, by Francis Poulenc 
with Donald G. Wilkins, Organist
Wednesday March 13 8:00 p.m.
*
The above program will be performed at Calvary Episcopal Church. Free Tickts may be 
obtained at the Skibo Information Desk for March 10. Tickets for March 13 should be ob­
tained from Calvary Episcopal Church.
315 S. BELLEFIELD AVENUE (ACROSS FROM HEINZ CHAPEL) 621-8875

---------------------------------------------------

Former Evangelist Preacher
March 11, 1974 
8:00 pm
Carnegie Music Hall
Tickets are free at the Info Desk
Funded byour student activity fee
THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 5, 1974-Page 17
LECTURE
ALVIN Al LEY
CITY CENTER DANCE THEATER
LECTURE — DEMONSTRATION
Thursday. March 7,1974 
8:00 pm 
In the CMU Gymnasium 
No Admission Charge
Sponsored by
The Activities Board 
C-MAP 
The Department of Drama
Fundort hv vour student activities fee

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 5, 1974
Hal Hdbrook-Twain
by Margie Strosser
Mark Twain came to town last Wednes­
day night on a slow train. The Grand 
Master of American humor consented to 
grace our city with his most prestigous 
presence on one condition only: the pro­
mise of an unlimited supply of good cigars. 
That request being granted. Twain arrived 
at Heinz Hall in a fine form and a white 
linen suit, puffing on his stogie. It was a 
night of storytelling to be remembered.
From behind a preacher’s pulpit, Twain 
delivered a two-and-one-half hour “service” 
of funny stories, jokes, and some excerpts 
from the famous escapades of Huck Finn. 
Mr. Twain prefers the oral, humerous story 
which, as he said, is distinctly American. It 
is also distinctly funny, because its effect­
iveness relies on the manner of telling the 
story instead of the outcome. Like an old 
man posing on a flour barrel in a country 
store. Mr. Twain spun his yarns gravely and 
unsuspectingly, wandering around the 
story as much as he pleased, at times even 
appearing to doze off for a short nap, be­
fore continuing the tale. Mr. Twain spoke 
about evolution: “I wonder if God' in­
vented man because he was disappointed in 
the monkey?" and recalled to the audience 
the well-known biblical legend of Noah and 
the Ark: “And then God said, ‘shove off, 
Noah!’ ”
For the benefit of those who doubt the 
relevance of the 19th-century humor, Mr. 
Twain made a few skeptical remarks about 
lying, a topic of current political interest. 
The problem, as Mr. Twain sees it, is in the 
Decay in the Art of Lying. People should 
approach a lie with gusto, elaborate upon 
it, glorify in it, and use it to advantage. As 
good citizens we readily uphold the lies 
perpetrated by the nation, so why should 
we feel guilty about a few little private 
ones.
And, in the words of Huck Finn, “If 
that means I go to hell, I’ll just go to hell.
I’ll go back to wickedness, the salary is the 
same.”
Mr. Twain called to mind the father of 
our country, George Washington, who 
could not tell a lie. Mr. Twain is not so 
unfortunate. He can, but won’t. All the 
doubters were thereby reassured that Mr. 
Twain was no backwoods teller of tall 
tales, but rather a spokesman for God’s 
holy truth. It was indeed a relief to know 
that the widow with the gilded glass eye 
which was too small for the socket and 
rolled over when she got excited, flashing 
white/gold/white/gold really existed; that 
the adults didn’t mind but it made the 
children cry, which didn’t really matter 
because she only put it in for company 
anyway.
Twain once wrote “Any lecture of mine 
ought to be a running narrative—plan, with 
square holes in it, six inches apart, all the 
length of it, and then in my mental shop I 
ought to have plugs (half maked ‘serious’ 
and the other marked ‘humorous’) to select 
from and jam into these holes according to 
the temper of the audiences.” Hal Hol­
brook’s presentation of “Mark Twain To­
night” did full justice to the real Twain’s 
conception of what a lecture should con­
tain. Holbrook, who has a repretoire of 10 
hours of material collected and edited from 
Twain’s works, has also researched news­
paper reviews of Twain’s lectures, photo­
graphs, description of Twain by friends, 
and visited Twain’s haunts to perfect his 
resurrection of the American humorist. 
The magic of Hal Holbrook is that he is so 
good we are never aware of him at all. His 
practised characterization is seemingly 
flawless in every detail, down to the last 
studied crease in his handkerchief.
The performance at Heinz Hall was a 
sell-out. I am sure that the real Mark Twain 
would have appreciated the compliment 
and undoubtedly remarked: “That ‘most
Last year move bicycles were sold In the U.S. than cars.This year you can open the 
best bike store in the Pittsburgh area.
Big Wheel Bikes franchises sell 21 different brands 
of 10 speeds including the complete lines of Fuji, 
Peugeot, Atala, Nishiki, Lambert, Falcon and Gitane. 
Our sales mix emphasizes high quality general-pur­
pose bikes, but all cycling needs are met. We will 
assist you in site evaluation and interior-exterior 
store design and our format for advertising and pro­
motion will get you off the ground. Program in­
cludes training in proven operational techniques 
in management and bike mechanics. Guaranteed 
buy-back of stock. Cash requirement.
For more information write:big wheel bikes
1034 33rd street,n.w. Washington, d.c. 
(202)337-0254
Hal Holbrook relaxes after a performance of "Mark 
Twain Tonight."
gives me the fantodds.”
Fantodds, according to Mark and Hal, 
means that everything you eat turns to
by Stacey Kimbell
Kelly’s Bar and Grill on Penn Circle & S. 
Highland Ave. in East Liberty advertises 
the best fish sandwich in town and 
certainly I can not dispute them because I 
haven’t had one. I saw one pass by my 
booth and they are large if nothing else. 
Tom Kelly, the proprietor, guarantees your 
satisfaction. Kelly’s is a restaurant and a 
bar with elaborate menus in both drink and 
food. You may indulge in a filet mignon, a 
julienne salad, fried eggs or a hamburger, 
or, if you have a bit of curiosity, a bowl of 
turtle soup.Turtle soup has turtle meat in it. Turtle 
meat tastes like stewing beef but I am not 
yet convinced that turtle and cow have the 
same flavor. There is just a hint of fish 
flavor in turtle soup. But besides the meat 
in the turtle soup there are plenty of vege­
tables. The bowl though not big, is enough 
to satisfy your hunger and if you were to 
accompany it with a beer it would be a 
combination making you too full to budge. 
Turtle soup is only S.65 and well worth a 
try. It’s homemade.
Also homemade is the Chile Concarne 
which is not as special as the turtle soup. It 
lacks spice and is too watery. It tastes as 
though submerged somewhere in the beans 
there should be a stuffed cabbage, because 
it tasted very much like a good sauce for 
stuffed cabbages. It is S.70 a bowl. Stick to 
the turtle soup.
Julienne Salad for $2.75 is a huge 
platter of tomatoes, cheese, ham, lettuce 
and assorted salad items. Liver and onions 
(liver is good for bags under your eyes and 
the red in your blood and ought to be 
eaten once a week) served with homemade 
french fries and a vegetable it’s $2.50. 
Everything is made well at Kelfy’s. When 
they add the word homemade to the ex-
a
m
CD
planation of dishes it’s almost uncalled 
for; the atmosphere is so much like home, 
it seems self explanatory.
A television set in a bar is comforting no 
matter how trite the program may be. The 
one in Kellys is in bright color and rotates. 
Also, requests from the patrons to please 
change the channel are taken and 
performed without complaint.
At the J. Harris Bar and Grill I found 
myself distracted more by the television 
than the conversation at the table. Unlike 
Kellys, the J. Harris Grill is not a restaurant 
but a bar that serves hamburgers. At Kellys 
there is a cook. He comes in mornings and 
bakes the pie of his choice that day, then 
cooks all day after. At J. Harris Grill there 
is also a bartender who fixes drinks and 
fixes hamburgers in a room that has 
mirrors on all four walls. Nick the evening 
bartender wears a pipe in his lower lip 
which he didn’t remove the entire time we 
were there. He made me the best ham­
burger in Pittsburgh. It was so big that in 
order to eat the roll I had to take off the 
top piece to fit it into my mouth. There was 
cheese, tomato, lettuce, onion, pickle and 
too much mayonaisse. It was mammoth. 
Additionally it was pure meat and plenty 
of it. Yes, the perfect Pittsburgh ham­
burger is to be had at J. Harris Grill dispite 
their rug wall hanging reproduction of 
President Kennedy and a photo of the 
moon landing astronauts above him. There 
are no french fries to be had and no beer if 
you are not over twenty-one but even with 
a condescending coke the J. Harris Grill is 
someplace special to eat. Their two handed 
hamburgers are $1.35 with everything but 
worth it. J. Harris Grill is on the corner of 
Ellsworth and Maryland Avenue.
In London a coroner’s inquest has 
found that the death of a 48 year old 
health food enthusiast was caused by 
“carrot juice addiction.” He had taken 70 
million units of Vitamin A in 10 days. His 
skin was bright yellow when he died.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 5, 1974-Page 19
THC4TO
MOON MYSTERIES
All very nice, but what does it mean? I 
asked. (Eben yawned; “ . .. the dancer 
and the dance ...” whispered my Muse.)
The second play was more easily under­
stood. A lame man riding piggyback on a 
blind man come to St. Coleman’s Waters 
for the cure. (We’ve already met the mis- 
chevious Saint.) After some very funny 
banter between the two, the Saint asks, 
“Will you be cured or will you be saved?” 
The blind man chooses to see. the lame 
man chooses to be saved, and the lame man 
is the better off in the end. Since there was 
very little dancing in “The Cat and the 
Moon” the Open Eye demonstrated that 
they have fine actors as well as dancers, 
especially in John Genke and John Fitz- 
Gibbon.
What does this teach me of Yeats? I 
asked. (My Muse yawned; Eben suggested 
we go get drunk).
The final play was extremely abstract, 
with characters who held auspicious roles 
. despite their continual anonymity. Entitled 
i “The One Jealousy of Emer,” it concerned 
a certain warrior who battled the sea (and 
lost); his wife; and his lover. In order for 
him to be saved, his wife had to denounce 
her single life-sustaining hope, which was 
that he should some day love her again. In 
comes the woman he is to be saved from, 
but i't me tell you, if she symbolized the 
terror of the sea we should all drown our­
selves. Called the Woman of the Sidhe, the 
role was danced by Andrea Stark, who was 
the epitome of structured grace. She had 
nothing wicked about her, however, and I 
guess only Yeats knows who she is. At the 
end of the play, the wife concedes, the 
husband awakens or reappears or whatever, 
and he is reunited with his lover. The end.
The International Poetry Forum was 
fortunate in having the Open Eye Pro­
duction of the Yeats plays. And though I 
may not have found Yeats, I at least 
learned that understanding is not always as 
important as feeling and perceiving. Moon 
Mysteries ^as a nice way to feel.
8:00 pm Ron Smith-features Pitts­
burgh's only Sunday Soul.
12-2 am Album Spotlight-a look at an 
artist and his latest album.
WRCT-FM/88.3 will go off the 
air each night at two a.m.
Monday
4:00 pm Frank Napoli-harmonic pro­
gressions with emphasis on 
guitarists.
7:00 pm The WRCT news team present 
campus, state, national and 
international news. Headlines 
presented on the half hour.
7:45 pm Radio Reader-Ken Kesey’s 
“One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s 
Nest” will be read (starting 
Monday, March 11).
8:00 pm Sue Zimmerman-would rather 
be anywhere else but in your 
radio.
11:00 pm Late night news.
11:15 pm Alex Lewis-rocking soul with 
just enough of Billboard's Top 
40 to make things interesting.
11:00 pm News
11:15 pm Ralph Guggenheim-likes 
gin straight.
his
Wednesday 
6:30 pm
7:30 pm 
7:45 pm 
8:00 pm
11:00 pm 
11:15 pm
Thursday 
4:00 pm 
7:00 pm
7:30 pm 
7:45 pm 
8:00 pm 
11:00 pm 
11:15 pm
Perspective CMU-Sue Zimmer­
man hosts a long list of infor­
mative and fascinating guests 
who are “in the Know”.
News
Radio Reader
Martha Allison-rolling the rock 
around.
News
John Craun--emphasizing 
British musicians.
Friday 
4:00 pm
6:00 pm 
7:00 pm
7:30 pm 
7:45 pm 
8:00 pm 
12:00 am
Saturday 
4-8 pm
Kevin Dreyer-his music speaks 
for itself.
Comedy-join Arnie Karr cause g_2 am 
the laughs will do you good.
News Sunday
Radio Reader
Karen Asin-she bites the lemon. 12:00 pm 
News
Studebacher Hoch-boldly 4:00 pm 
springing into action, he 
phones his wife. 6:00 pm
Skipper Fischer-TGIF on the 
radio, light and lively. A great 
way to start the weekend.
Ron Smith-begins.
Mitch Greenberg presents 
written works by the world’s 
greatest humorists, on “Didja 
Hear the One About ".
News
Radio Reader
Ron Smith-continues.
Sal Paradise-bringing you to 
the heights of auditory ecstasy.
Alex Lewis-music from the 
black musicians and vocalists 
who have yet to become 
“super -commercial.”
Alan Aranoffs Party Music.
The Classics Show with Steve 
Falatko
Busy Signal-Mitch Greenberg’s 
call in and talk show.
Norm Beck-WRCT nostalgia 
specialist does the oldies show.
by C. A. Kinneavy
1 welcomed the chance to see the Inter­
national Poetry Forum’s presentation of 
the William Butler Yeats Moon Mysteries 
because I hoped to gain some insight into 
Yeats’ poetry. Yeats has been eluding me 
for weeks now, which is okay but in the 
meantime poor Russ Brignano and the en­
tire Modern British Lit class has to suffer 
through my asinine and insistent inter­
pretation of Leda not being raped by but 
seducing the Swan (wouldn’t you couple 
with a god? well, wouldn’t you?) and my 
trying to Find the significance in the differ­
ing pronunciation of “Yeats” and 
“Keats”—all born of my inability to under­
stand this poet.
So a kind of despair caused by ignor­
ance drove my Muse and I, and friend Eben 
Flood, to Carnegie Institute two Fridays 
ago. Few people attended. Those who did 
not attend should feel sad. Not suicidal, 
but very, very sad. The performance as a 
whole was impressive, primarily because of 
the dancers who, though few in number, 
could put the entire Pittsburgh Ballet to 
shame.
Before discussing the performance in 
any detail, however, I feel it’s necessary to 
provide a short bit of background which I 
have learned since seeing the plays, and 
which certainly has added to my apprecia­
tion of the “Open Eye” production. Yeats' 
wrote the plays stipulating that there 
should be music, dancing and masks; but 
since he composed no standard music, 
wrote no choreography and designed no 
masks, the demands on the director to 
pull the plays together are immense. Thus, 
the single flaw of the production seems 
minor, indeed.
The original instrumentation by Teiji 
Ito was clever and complemented the 
mythical themes of Yeats with a mystical 
background, oriental in both sound and
"The Cat and the Moon"
movement. The direction and choreo­
graphy of Jean Erdman moved the dancers 
from stately to sensual to downright or- 
gasmatic (in the 1st and 3rd plays; there 
was little dancing in the 2nd). The cost­
umes, designed by Dan Erkkila, Ralph Lee 
and Patricia McGourty, and the masks by 
Ralph Lee, were pleasantly unostenta­
tious—the productions strong point was in­
tended to be the quality of the dance, and 
Ms. Erdman apparently took pains to in­
sure that nothing interfered with that 
objective. What destroyed the effect of the 
plays was the weak voice of Wendy Erd­
man (Jean’s daughter?) who garbled the 
words and made the music distracting (of 
all things!). I’m sure whatever messages 
Yeats was sending to me through the Open 
Eye was lost in Wendy Erdman’s not- 
quite-open mouth.
I could pretend to have understood the 
plays; I could lie and say I discovered Yeats 
in the Queen’s lost slipper or under St. 
Coleman’s flat rock. I didn’t. But the fact 
that Yeats remains a mystery to me did not 
detract from my enjoyment of the pro­
duction. Fascination is as beautiful as 
knowledge, and the plays were a fascina­
tion in both sound and visual effect.
The first play, “A Full Moon In March,
revolved around the legend of an Irish 
queen who tempted men to sing of her 
beauty with the hope of winning her hand 
and the kingdom (or queendom, whatever). 
The catch was that if she disliked your 
song, off with your head. Along comes a 
daring old swineherd who is so daring that 
he doesn’t get to sing until after his head is 
lobbed off. Gory, huh? In the play Yeats 
utilizes music, masks and dance to externa­
lize the emotions of the principal charac­
ters. In the First scene, for example, one 
“Queen” (Lee McClelland) speaks only, 
while two younger “queens” (Andrea Stark 
and Esther Chaves) dance her thoughts. 
Edward Henkel (a principal dancer in all 
three plays) illustrates the thoughts of the 
old swineherd, whose other role was 
spoken by John Genke. One of the com­
pany’s finest dancers, Elizabeth Lage, 
appeared in the second scene as still a third 
“queen.” She dances‘round and ‘round the 
head of the swineherd and goes mad.
"A Full Moon In March"
The WRCT-FM/88.3 Radio Lineup: 
Tuesday
4:00 pm Gary Bronheim-with music to 
eat dinner by.
7:00 pm Arnie Karr hosts a series of 
poets who will read and discuss 
their work.
7:30 pm News 
7:45 pm Radio Reader 
8:00 pm Andy Beary-concentrates on a 
random group of artists each 
week.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20-THE TARTAN-T.uesday, March 5, 1974
Preservation Hall Jazz The magnificent 
Preservation Hall Jazz Band will appear at 
Heinz Hall on March 17 at 7:30 p.m. The 
band features Jim Robinson on trombone, 
now 82 years old, considered to be the top 
New Orleans trombonist alive. Tickets are 
$4.50, $5.50, and $6.50, and are available 
at the department stores, as well as at Pitt 
Book Store. There will be a student ID 
discount on tickets purchased at the box 
office. Call 281-8185 for further informa­
tion.
Hot Stuff Billy Wilder’s funny 1959 bauble 
Some Like It Hot, starring Marilyn Mon 
roe, and Tony Curtis and Jack Lemmon in 
drag, will be shown on March 10, Sunday 
night, at 7:00 and 9:30 in the Wherret 
Room of Skibo as part of the American 
Film Retrospective Series. Admission is 75 
cents. Catch Tony Curtis doing Cary Grant.
1 This movie became the musical Sugar; the 
original is ten times superior.
Marceau Marcel Marceau, the greatest living 
pantomimist, will appear at Heinz Hall on 
Sunday, March 31 as part of his tenth tour 
of the U. S. There is bound to be great 
demand for tickets. Ticket prices are $7, 
$6, and $5, and are available at the box 
office, and at the major department stores, 
as well as at the Pitt Book Store. A special 
Student ID discount is available with tick­
ets purchased at Heinz Hall. Call 281-8185 
for further information.
^ HEINZ HALL FDR THE PERFORMING ARTS HEINZ HA
The Preservation Hall Jazz Band will appear at Heinz Hall on March 17th.
HEINZ HALL FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS HEINZ H
Viveca Lindfors will bring her one-woman 
show called “I Am A Woman” to the Chat­
ham College Theatre for three perfor­
mances, March 10, 11 and 12 at 8:00 p.m. 
Tickets are a very reasonable $1.50 for 
students and may be obtained at the door 
or by sending a stamped, self-addressed 
envelope to Public Relations Office, Chat­
ham College, Pittsburgh, 15232, indicating 
night and number of tickets. Ms. Lindofrs’ 
production includes the portrayal of 36 
women of history and literature. Her 
characters include Brecht’s Shen Teh, 
Shakespeare’s Portia, Giradoux’s Mad 
Woman, Tennessee William’s Alexandra, as 
well as Anne Frank, Marilyn Monore and 
Louise Nevelson.^ ^ . U ' ' .
OnePerformance 
Only
Sunday, March 17 at 7:30 P.M., HEINZ HALL
The original Dixieland Jazz band, direct from 
New Orleans—made up of the men who were' 
there when blues, spirituals and ragtime all were 
merged into jazz.
Tickets: $4:50, $5.50, $6.50
at Heim Holl Sox Office (281-5000), Gimbels. Horn«'», Koufmonn's 
10% discount to itudanti and tonlor citizens with ID's at the 
Box Office.
Discounts to groups of 20 or more. Phone 281-8185 for information.
Alvin Ailey Heinz Hall recently announced 
that the March 9 performance by the Alvin 
Ailey City Center Dance Theatre has been 
sold out. There will, however, be a lecture 
demonstration open to the public sched­
uled for Thursday, March 7 at 8:00 p.m. in 
the Gymnasium of Carnegie-Mellon Univer­
sity. One master class is open, the class in 
modem dance, and is scheduled for Tues­
day, March 5 at 8:00 p.m. at the Arts and 
Crafts Center on Shady Avenue. Reserva­
tions for this master class are being taken 
at 361-0455.
The Pitt Players will present Georges Fey­
deau’s farce The Marry-Go-Wrong (Le
mariage de Barillon) at the Stephen Foster 
Memorial beginning March 7 at 8:30 p.m. 
Subsequent performances will be March 8 
and 9, 14-16 and 21-23. Tickets are avail­
able at the door; call 624-4101 for further 
information.
Theatre The Point Park Players are utilizing 
the otherwise dark facilities of what once 
was the Pittsburgh Playhouse to present 
Arthur Miller’s The Crucible, beginning 
Friday, March 8, at 8:00 p.m. The Play­
house is located at 222 Craft Avenue, right 
off Fifth. The production will feature both 
students and former Playhouse Equity 
actors. Call 621-4445 for further informa­
tion.
Concert The rock group Deep Purple is
scheduled to appear at the Civic Arena on 
Wednesday, March 6th, at 7:30 p.m. Tick­
ets are $4.50, $5.50, and $6.50, and for 
more information call the Civic Arena at 
471-1312.
Mime Marcel Marceau will appear at Heinz Hall on 
March 31st.
QED Theatre Series The Exxon-sponsored 
“Theatre in America” series will feature 
Paradise Lost, the fine play by Clifford 
Odets, on Thursday, March 7, at 8:00 p.m. 
The excellent production stars Eli Wallach 
and Jo Van Fleet, and featured in a dazz­
ling supporting cast are George 'Voskovec , 
Fred Gwynne, Sam Groom, Bernadette 
Peters, Sam Schact, and a gem of a bit by 
the fabulous Cliff Gorman as a gangster.
Holiday Act Mart Goetz, a senior in the 
music department and one of the com­
posers of this Spring’s Scotch ’n Soda, will 
be playing at the Holiday House in Mon­
roeville for two shows a pight from March 
10-14th. Marty will perform with his part­
ner, Bert Lloyd, and they do fine pop-type 
songs in a smooth Sandler and Young 
sophisticated style. Bert and Marty (that’s 
the billing) have toured together on the 
nightclub circuit throughout the country 
and abroad. They’ve done the Diplomat 
Hotel in Miami; appeared in Marbeaa. 
Spain; performed at Ben Grosses, Top 
Shelf, and King Arthur’s Court here in 
Pittsburgh, and at the Persian Room of the 
famous Plaza Hotel in New York City.
Judith Jamison of the Alvin Ailey Dance Company

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—Tuesday, March 5, 1974—Page 21
sports
The Steelers Are Coming!
******?
Preston Pearson
A number two draft choice by the Steelers in 
1971, Jack has been a standout corner line­
backer. He became an almost immediate 
starter.
by Mike Pochan
Friday, March 8th will be a big day for 
intramural sports at CMU as the IM basket­
ball championship is played, followed by 
an awards ceremony, and topped off with 
the Pittsburgh Steelers basketball team 
taking on the IM All-Stars in an exciting
Frenchy is one of the most flamboyant pro­
fessional athletes. But his athletic abilities 
are not diminished by his colorful manner.
contest.
At 7:00 p.m. in the Skibo Gym, the 
showdown between the two top teams in 
the major league will take place. As of this 
writing, it is not definite who the top 
teams will be, but the Wild Bunch, Radic’s 
Raiders, and GSIA all have a good chance 
at the playoff.
Following the major league title game, 
an awards ceremony will take place, 
honoring the champions of the minor, in­
Glen Williams Fourth 
in PAC Wrestling
by Jeff Englund
Carnegie-Mellon’s freshman heavyweight 
wrestler Glen Williams was the only Tartan 
to advance beyond the opening round of 
the PAC Championships held at John Car­
roll University last weekend, February 
22-23. The Rochester, New York grappler 
pinned Lee Schechtman of Case Western 
Reserve at 4:36. In the second round, 
Williams was pinned by Hiram’s World
Games bronze medalist Ken Levels in 3:15. 
Williams was decisioned 4-1 by Mark Licht 
of Thiel on the consolation round.
Williams dual meet record was 4-3 over­
all and 3-1 in the Presidents Athletic Con­
ference.
As a team C-MU finished eighth with 
nine points, two behind seventh-place 
Bethany. John Carroll repeated as team 
champion, taking seven individual titles. 
Hiram had two winners, with Washington 
& Jefferson taking the remaining spot.
Sh&&hers Finish Campaign
by Ansley Klein
Friday, February 15 saw the Tartan 
Ritlers lose to Geneva (1283-1276) in a 
match postponed from the 9th due to the 
flooding of the Jenkins Range, while the 
next day saw them triumph over W & J 
(1275-1200) in the final league match of 
the season. This brought the Tech team’s 
win-loss record to 6-9.
Leading the team against W & J was 
Mark Smith (268), C-MLTs high scorer with
This 6'1", 210 lb. running back is the finest 
all • around athlete on the Steeler team. He 
was drafted by the Colts then traded in '70.
termediate, and major leagues. Trophies 
will be presented by IM director Earl J. 
Birdy.
Then, at 8:30, the Pittsburgh Steelers 
take the court, to ply their basketball 
talents against the IM All-Star Team. The 
All-Stars will consist of the top players 
from the Intramural league as chosen by 
the all-school voting.
The Steelers will bring a hefty crew that 
varies in composition each time they play.
Andy has been the Steeler Defensive captain 
since 1967. He has been named to virtually 
every All - Pro Team in the past five seasons.
The Steelers that participate in the pro­
gram are: Terry Bradshaw, Franco Harris, 
Roy Gerela, Frenchy Fuqua, Andy Russell, 
L.C. Greenwood, Preston Pearson, Sam 
Davis, Mike Wagner, Jim Clack, Jack Ham, 
Bruce Van Dyke, Gerry Mullins, Jon Kolb, 
and Ernie Holmes. They must certainly 
play a tough brand of basketball.
Don’t forget the date - Friday night, 
March 8th. Proceeds go to the benefit of 
CMU students.
W&men Dr&p Sec&nd 
L&ss &f hhe Year
by Leslie Allen
an average of 265.
Next four were Elsbeth Weichsel (257), 
a graduating senior and only woman 
member of the team. Steve Strom (255), 
Ray Sears (251), also a graduating senior 
and the season’s second highest scorer, and 
Charlie Forsyth (244).
Leaving too, unfortunately, is team 
coach S/Sgt. Andrew Jackson, to whom 
the team and I both owe many thanks for 
his encouragement and interest in our 
shooting. After four years at the campus 
here, he is being transferred by the Army.
Wednesday February 27, C-MU’s 
women suffered their second loss of the 
season going down to Indiana, 65-54. 
C-MU, using a zone defense, could not stop 
the sure shooters of Indiana and they 
trailed at the end of the first quarter 23-16. 
In the second quarter, C-MU, after several 
successful drives, was able to cut Indiana’s 
lead to 4 points but Indiana came right 
back and outscored C-MU. At the half, the 
score saw C-MU down by 10, 35-25.
With the beginning of the third quarter, 
C-MU sparked to life and for most of the 
quarter was behind by only two baskets. 
They kept in the game until the final min­
utes of the quarter, when on several occa­
sions, Indiana was able to score from the 
left side, as C-MU’s left defensive player 
was time and time again pulled out of her 
position in the zone defense. In the third 
quarter C-MU had scored 13, Indiana 17, 
and the score was 50-39. In the final quart­
er, C-MU tried to come back, but time 
soon became a factor. The lead had been 
cut to 8, but C-MU could come no closer. 
In the fourth quarter alone, Jean Hundley 
was fouled 7 times, but she could make 
only half her shots. C-MU never stopped 
trying, but Indiana held on in the final 
quarter to win 65-54.
The entire game was a very physical 
one. C-MU committed 15 fouls, and In­
diana 28. Half of Indiana’s fouls were com­
mitted on C-MU’s Center Jean Hundley. 
Elly Zimmerman and Jean Hundley 
smacked away a few of Indiana’s shots, and 
Indiana did the same. There were many 
jump balls in the game, and Indiana was 
warned to give C-MU players 3 feet when 
C-MU was inbounding the ball. It was a 
rough, exciting game, and both teams play­
ed well, but C-MU not well enough.
Captain Cindy Whitmore was hot from 
the corner as she banked in 13 points. Elly 
Zimmerman, the best dribbler on the team, 
shot from everywhere, making 9 points. 
Cathy duBrueil had 3 and Marty Lisberger,
2. Jean Hundley, 5’11”, freshman center 
with a fantastic 27 points, did her thing in 
Wednesdays game. Almost every time she 
went up to the boards she took two In­
diana players with her, made her shot and 
came down ready to try for the third point 
at the foul line. After this superb game it is 
plain to see why she is called "Mean Jean.” 
She knows just what to do and how to do 
it.
Last game of the season pits C-MIJ 
against Bethany on Thursday, March 7 in 
Skibo Gym. Come see the women get their 
final victory of the year! Gametime sg 
nurxl
Jack HamAndy Russell

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 5, 1974
Tarhans Sixhh ah W&JPihh (finally) Beahs CMU
by Jeff Englund
The Tartan swimmers improved by 90 
points and one position at the PAC champ­
ionships held at Washington & Jefferson 
last weekend, March 1-2, with a sixth-place 
finish among the seven competing schools.
Most of the Tartans finished in the top 
twelve of their respective events. Highest 
finishers were freshmen Bill Gregg (eighth 
in the 1650 freestyle) and Bob Matysek 
(eighth in the 100 yard breaststroke). 
Sophomore Patty Dyke was eighth in the 
diving competition.
Allegheny repeated as the team champ­
ion, scoring 633 points, or better than a 
third of the total. Bethany was close be­
hind with 602. The order of finish for the
remainder of the field was: Hiram (191); W 
& J (150); Case Western Reserve (102); 
C-MU (90); and Thiel (87). Last year the 
Tartans failed to score a single point in a 
last place finish.
Most valuable swimmer in the meet was 
Marty Pfinnesgraaf of Hiram, who set three 
new conference and pool records while 
coasting to three individual championships. 
Pete Munger of W & J qualified for the 
national championships in a record- 
smashing (:55:12) performance in the 100 
yard butterfly. The diving championship 
went to John Wisotzkey, also of the host­
ing Presidents, by a half-point over his 
nearest rival.
All winning times established new pool 
and PAC marks.
Riley's Mistake
bv Glenn Campbell
It has been said that team owners fire 
coaches because it’s easier than firing all 
the players. Lately the Pittsburgh Penguins 
have been trying to do both. When Jack 
Button replaced Jack Riley as general 
manager he looked east to Philadelphia and 
decided to mold the Penguins in the Flyers’ 
image. Since the Flyers have become 
known as the Broad Street Bullies they’ve 
been the scourge of the NHL West. But 
getting players with the disposition of H.R. 
Haldemann does not a winner make. The 
Flyers also have Bobby Clarke. Bernie 
Parent. Rick MacLeish et. al. who are really 
the backbone of the team. Button’s bally- 
hooed moves to add muscle have not im­
proved the team. Now they are not only a 
team oflimited ability but also one with a 
confused identity.
The Penguins won their first three 
games after the recent trades. Then they 
returned to normalcy and have now lost six 
straight. Obviously another move was 
imminent: when in doubt fire someone. So 
Coach Ken Schinkel, who inherited the job 
at midseason last year, was jetissoned. 
Schinkel never really had a chance to show 
what he could do. Players were coming and 
going at such a rate that Schinkel hardly 
ever fielded the same team more than a few 
games in a row. To be proficient in hockey 
the players have to be together for a while. 
The Penguins barely would learn a players’ 
name before he was gone. Besides being 
handicapped with bad players Schinkel had 
the unenviable task of becoming the coach 
of his former teammates. He took the job 
with two strikes against and now he’s the 
scapegoat. The Penguins have made
RUGS
FORLESS
«iih ' jr ID Card 
-x 12s a. $19.$29.$39 
a. 06 s, 12x12s. 12x15s
Also wall tapestries, Indian rugs furry rugs 
and bedspreads. Low prices oriental rugs in 
many sizes.
ASK ABOUT DISCOUNT FURNITURE
another stop gap replacement in naming 
Marc Boileau as coach. He'll probably last 
out the season and be replaced. They ought 
to know by now that replacing a coach in 
mid season is usually futile.
Red Kelly, whom the Penguins fired in 
mid season last year, was the only coach to 
lead the team into post season play. He had 
a mediocre team within distance of the 
playoffs last year when he was fired. The 
Penguins have gotten progressively worse 
since Kelly left. But getting fired by the 
Penguins was probably the best thing that 
could have happened to Kelly. Now he’s 
the coach of the Toronto Maple Leafs, a 
much improved team, which is almost 
assured of a playoff spot.
The man who must take the blame for 
this sorry team is former General Manager 
Jack Riley. Riley made all the trades and 
draft selections that made the team what it 
is today. Characteristically he blasted the 
news media for his failure. No sportswriters 
held a gun to his head as he made trades 
and draft choices. Atlanta and Buffalo 
both have better teams than the Penguins 
because their general managers didn’t sit on 
their duffs and blame others for their lack 
of talent. Now that Riley has been fired 
the organization needs a complete over­
haul. Button was Riley’s right hand man 
and he is not the man for the job.
The Penguins are one of the worst 
franchises in the NHL because the whole 
organization is weak. There should be no 
more interim coaches and general 
managers. A qualified hockey man should 
be given free rein to rebuild the team, no 
matter what the cost. Unlike California the 
Penguins can’t blame Charlie Finley for 
their problems. But they have become the 
Golden Seals of the East.
CHASE'S
5426 Walnut 
Shadyside
10 a m 8 p m Sat, til 5 
For directions call 621 1025
Shadyside Presbyherian Church
AMBERSON, OFF 5th AVE. 682-4300
SUNDAY:
9:00 Worship Service 
9:30 Learning community (adults 
and children)
10:30 Community Worship 
Celebration 
11:00 Worship Service
Ms. Nano Chalfant, Campus Staff
Photos by Mary Kay Burak 
CMU's Matt Goldsmith (12) skates around Penn State player..
CMU's Mike Gallaway (9) trie* to get around PITT's Russ Stump (8).
by Mary Kay Burak
For the first time in two seasons, Pitt 
skaters tasted victory over C-MU on Feb­
ruary 23, stopping the undefeated Tartan 
streak at 16 games. Three of these Tartan 
victories were carry-overs from last season, 
when the club went down to defeat only 
once, to Indiana. Hopefully, the one-loss 
pattern will hold for this season, too.
The Panthers, out to undo what they 
liked to call the Tartan “hex,” played a 
hard, fast game which C-MU skaters were 
strangely unable to match. Charly Hagins 
dropped a quick goal at 1:45 into the 
game, and Pitt dominated the period from 
then on, with 15 shots on goal to C-MU’s 
4. Vernon scored the first of his four goals 
this period, giving Pitt a 2-0 lead.
The Tartans picked up in the second per­
iod; shots on goal were even at 8-8, al­
though Pitt scored twice and C-MU once. 
The single Tartan goal, shot by Roger 
Peterson through a maze of skaters, caught 
goalie Mark Lieberman off-balance. But 
though the C-MU club shot valiantly and
well, Lieberman and Pitt defensemen 
managed to block further Tartan goal- 
attempts.
So the third period opened with C-MU 
down three goals—an unprecedented state 
of affairs this season and very disquieting 
to Tartan fans. Frank Sciulli took over as 
goalie. Vernon scored twice more and 
rubbed i* in on Tartan skaters and support­
ers by pointing at the scoreboard with a 
triumphant smirk.
Pitt defenseman Glenn Hyde risked sus­
pension under the league’s newr fighting 
rules in a brief skirmish with Joe Graves 
near the end of the game. But the referees 
settled upon a triple minor call (6 minutes 
in the penalty box—more time than there 
was left in the game) against Hyde.
The Pitt victory leaves the Panthers just 
one point behind C-MU, and since they 
have played one less game, they should 
come out on top. Assuming that both win 
in the semi-finals, the two clubs will meet 
again in the championship game on March 
21. The Tartans have a loss to avenge and a 
title to win, so look for an exciting game.

---------------------------------------------------

Improved Cage Season Ends 
with Loss to Geneva
C-MU’s basketball team has just ended a 
season that most people would rather for­
get. Although there was an improvement in 
the amount of victories, their final record 
still stands at a dismal 3-18. In their last 
two games, the Tartans played against two 
of the tougher teams on the schedule, 
Hiram and Geneva, and lost both games, 
94-50 and 70-61, respectively.
Geneva had a 17-7 record going into last 
Saturday’s game and is in a much tougher 
league than the Tartans are in. Last week 
Geneva played W & J, used their first string 
sparingly, and still won the game easily. 
Last year Geneva trounced the Tartans by 
51 points. This year the Tartans were not 
supposed to pose too many problems for 
Geneva. But in a game that was tied six 
times and which the lead changed eight 
times, C-MU led at the half, 32-31. The 
Tartans maintained this lead through most 
of the second half until Geneva’s little 
guard began to hit and with 8Vi minutes 
left, Geneva took the final lead. In the 
closing minutes, the Tartans closed the 
margin to 58-57, but Geneva began to play 
as expected. Dangels was the game’s high 
scorer with 19 points while Chambers had 
14.
Hiram’s record was 10-0 going into the 
game with C-MU. They needed to win this 
game to clinch the PAC champs and they 
had to win impressively in order to receive 
a bid to the college playoffs. They got 
them both. The score was tied at 16-16 but 
that was the last C-MU saw of Hiram. They 
led by 13 at the half and won by 44 points. 
The leagues leading scorer from Hiram, 
Van Glen Neal, scored 33 points.
The season ended with some good in­
dividual performances. Greg Chambers hit 
double figures in his last seven games while 
D’angelo hit double figures on six of his 
last eight games. It has to be remembered 
that 10 of the 11 players on the team and 
all five starters were freshmen. This is not 
an excuse for such a poor season but if the 
same team came back next year, they 
would be much better just because of a 
year’s experience. But next year there will 
be many new faces on the team.
PsC Champs 
G& T&
NCss T&urney
by Jeff Englund
For the second time in two years the 
Hiram Terriers will take their PAC basket­
ball laurels to the NCAA small college 
championships.
Ohio Northern, runner-up to Wittenberg 
in the tough Ohio Conference, will journey 
to Hiram this Tuesday, March 5, to face 
the I 5-2 Terriers. Hiram has come up short 
against Ohio Conference foes this season, 
splitting with Mt. Union and losing to 
Wooster, two teams near the bottom of the 
league ladder. However, Bill Folger, Hiram 
sports information director, feels that the 
PAC champs should have won those two 
games.
In their post-season tournament debut 
last year Hiram lost to Steubenville in a 
close contest. The Barons went on to the 
tourney semifinals.
High - jumping Greg Chambers has led Tartans 
the second half of the season.
Rich Klein, Tartan leader in freethrow and 
field goal percentage.
Harry Hotimsky. perfect from floor and line 
against John Carroll.
Clyde Carter came off the bench to score 9 
against Hiram.IM Playoffs 
Begin Tuesday
by Jim Litsas
IM basketball’s regular season contests 
ended yesterday, and playoffs begin to­
night, March 5, at 7:00 p.m. The last weeks 
of action turned out to be the most ex­
citing, as three major league teams entered 
the stretch undefeated and only one 
emerged with an 11-0 record.
Wild Bunch has played superb ball the 
entire season. In their final regular season 
contests, they defeated Salt & Pepper, after 
trailing 24-19 at half, and took control to 
pull out their important victory. The 
Bunch’s 62-39 victory over GSIA was even 
more decisive and left them with only the 
Raiders to tackle. Atkinson and Edwards 
once again led the Bunch’s attack to a 
51-41 win.
GSIA slumped off in their final season 
contests, losing by fair margins to 10 + 2 
II, ATO and the Bunch. Their victory over 
Salt & Pepper boosted their morale a bit, 
and they should be tough in playoff com­
petition.
Which leaves the Bunch, Salt & Peppei, 
GSIA. ATO and the Raiders with assured 
playott spots. PKA-A and 10+2 11 might 
have to play oft between themselves first. 
Six tough teams should make foi exciting
playoffs today through Friday, when the 
IM major league championship will be de­
termined.
The Intermediates are another story. 
The Orangatangs claimed the Bucks divis­
ion championship without any problem, 
soundly defeating Red Riders and PKA-B, 
their nearest rivals, to sew up their season 
with a 9-0 record. They should be deadly 
in the playoffs.
The Purple Gnurples took the Suns di­
vision crown, also undefeated, and they 
look forward to playing the Orangantangs. 
The Phi Kappa Taters, last years champs, 
are also in the playoffs this year, looking 
for their second straight Intermediate 
crown, but they face a lot of tough com­
petition.
The Bulls division has caused a bit of a 
problem. The three top teams have 8-1 
records. They are the Players, the Polish 
Patriots, and Madd. The Patriots defeated 
Madd by six points early in the season, but 
lost their last regular season game to the 
Players, by a single point. To complicate 
things further, Madd defeated the Players 
by the same 36-35 score. Nonetheless, by 
Wednesday at 7:00 p.m., the Intermediate 
champ will have been determined.
Skaters
Finish
Undefeated
by Dave Girdany
The C-MU hockey team and the Indiana 
hockey team played twice in eleven days 
with completely different results. The first 
game, February 17 at the Civic Arena, 
ended in a 1-1 tie, even though the Tartans 
outshot their opponents by a 39-14 mar­
gin. Wednesday night, February 27th, was 
a little different, as the Tartans skated to 
an easy 6-0 victory at the Belmont Arena 
in Kittanning.
The story of the first game was the play 
of the Indiana goaltender, who made sev­
eral excellent saves. An early shorthanded 
goal by Pete Hanson gave Indiana a 1-0 
lead. Although applying pressure on the 
Indiana goalie throughout the game, the 
Tartans could only score on a power play 
goal midway through the second period. 
Mike Kenworthy beat the goalie with a 
good slapshot from the blue line. Follow­
ing this goal, however, the Indiana goal- 
tender continued to frustrate the C-MU 
skaters. Pete Davis appeared to have scored 
later in the game when his shot found its 
way under the goalie, but it was ruled no 
score because the referee ruled it did not 
cross the goal line. The Tartans finished 
this game in first place in the WPIHA.
The Tartans began the next Indiana 
game, destined to finish second, after 
losing to Pitt, trying to show that that loss 
was not a typical Tartan game, and that 
they should not be counted out of the 
championship picture. They did a good job 
of doing so. Jeff Hart was his normal 
excellent self in goal, and the Tartans 
rarely let up the pressure on the Indiana 
goalie.
The renewed line of Roger Peterson, 
Tom Grimm, and Matt Goldsmith con­
tributed three goals, one by each linemate. 
Pete Davis scored the last two Tartan goals 
and did his best to score the three goal hat 
trick in the closing minutes. He came as 
close as he could have, without scoring. 
LeRoy Bauer added three assists.
Matt Goldsmith scored on a backhand 
shot on C-MU’s first power play to give 
C-MU a 1-0 lead midway through the first 
period. Then, three minutes apart, in the 
middle of the second period, Roger Peter­
son and Tom Grimm scored, Tom deked 
the Indiana goalie easily on a breakaway, 
and flipped the puck into the open net. 
The Tartans continued their dominance in 
the third period as Mike Kenworthy scored 
once and Pete Davis twice, thus accounting 
for all the Tartan goals.
The Tartan offense, under coach Larry 
Jacobs, and defense both played well. If 
this type of play continues, you can forget 
about that loss to Pitt and begin thinking 
about the championship.
Scoring Summaries
C-MU vs. Indiana (February 17)
Ij Indiana Hanson 4:48 
2) C-MU Kenworthy 5 (Farman) 8:14
C-MU vs. Indiana (February 27)
11 C-MU Goldsmith 5 (Bauer) 8:24 
2] (2) C-MU Peterson 7 (Molnai, Gold­
smith) 5:23; (3) C-MU Grimm 5 (Bauer) 
8:25
3J C-MU Kenworthy (Grimm) 7:35; (5) 
C-MU Davis 9 (Herlich) 8:44: (6) C Ml 
Davis 10 (Bauer, Farman) ? 0:! v
THE TARTAN^Tuesday, March 5, 1974—Page 23

---------------------------------------------------

Page 24-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, March 5, 1974
Tonight:
PRESIDENT CYERT AT6 P.M
AND
ED OCHESTER AT 7 P. M.
| V
Tomorrow
IRA PICKER - of the AB
at 6:30 P.M.
L__
