Volume 80, Number 14
January 22,1980TARTAN
Camegie-Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Food Service responds, Deli set to reopen
by Susan Borg
“We’ve listened to students and I think 
we’ve responded,” said Oscar Mayer, Dir­
ector of Auxilliary Services, in regard to his 
recent decision to reopen the Deli oper­
ation on a limited schedule begining Wed­
nesday January 23. The bakery segment of 
the operation, however, will remain in 
Skibo, stated Mayer, and the Deli will only 
operate a lunch shift from 11 AM to 2 PM 
on weekdays.
The decision to reopen the deli was re­
sult of student pressure. Leaders of the 
major student organizations and media 
held repeated meetings with John Eich- 
muller, Director of Food Services, and 
Oscar Mayer. These meetings were held 
in an effort to clarify the confusion sur­
rounding the Food Service controversy.
At an emergency meeting of the Pres­
ident’s Student Advisory Council called 
by the student leaders, President Richard 
Cyert and Vice-President for Management 
Richard Van Horn fielded questions 
that are on the minds of the entire student 
body: How could so much money be lost 
in so short a time, and how is it possible 
not to recognize such a tremendous loss 
sooner?
“Did John know he was losing money?” 
asked Cyert, referring to John Eichmuller, 
in response to the student question. This 
question remained unanswered.
Cyert addressed this lack of response: 
‘There is obviously a third person involved 
who is not present.” He added that nobody 
wanted to shift the blame on someone who
WRCT General Manager Mark Andrews discusses the Activities Fee increase with Senate.
Activity Fee increase expected
At an emergency meeting on Saturday 
afternoon, Student Senate rejected a 
motion to rescind the $20 increase in the 
Activities Fee for 1980-81. The original 
resolution, adopted December 11th, was 
submitted to the Board of Trustees yester­
day (after this issue of the TARTAN went 
to press).
The Saturday meeting was called in 
response to the request of Senators Smith, 
Inners, and Nichols and a petition with 
over 50 student signatures asking Senate to 
reconsider their proposal in favor of a $10 
increase. Several other senators felt that 
the regular meeting held on January 15th 
was poorly run, allowing spokespersons of 
major organizations to monopolize the dis­
cussion. These sentiments, combined-with 
a perceptible confusion among several 
senators about exact budgeting plans under 
the various possible increases convinced the 
Senate leadership that a meeting must be 
held before any recommendation was 
given to the Trustees.
Chairperson Ralph Sherman formulated 
a strict agenda and time constraints for the 
meeting, allowing officers, organizations’ 
leaders, and interested persons to present 
their viewpoints and to give Senators am­
ple time for discussion of the issue.
The meeting began with statements by 
Sherman and Vice-Chairperson Nina Hous- 
ka reminding aU present of the need for a 
decision and the responsibilities of the 
chairperson. Dean of Student Affairs, 
Earle Swank, then outlined the general 
cost figures: currently, Senate receives
was not present to defend himself. Cyert 
was referring to the conspicuous absence of 
John Eichmuller from this meeting.
Van Horn added that Eichmuller had 
made a bad judgement; but, there was no 
reason to think that the decision to remam 
open, in spite of daily losses, was a bad 
judgement at the time it was made.
Cyert added that “we were obviously not 
pleased with [Food Service’s] perform­
ance,” but that this issue would not be 
discussed at the President’s SAC meeting.
Cyert suggested that a Food Service 
Management Committee of students be 
formed to work closely with Oscar Mayer 
on marketing and management techniques 
that will be directed to the needs and 
desires of the student body. This commit­
tee will be an outgrowth of the already 
formed SDC Food Service committee that 
has, until now, concentrated on the issue 
of quality.
President Cyert suggested that if the 
students would be willing to pay a reason­
able price increase, the Deli could be re­
opened. “Nothing that’s been done cannot 
be undone,” he said.
Mayer protested, stating that he would 
first like to see the operating figures from 
the month of January in order to deter­
mine the effect of the changes on Food 
Service losses.
A student representative at the meeting 
was curious to determine how Mayer could 
determine the status of Food Service losses 
at the end of January when he evidently 
did not notice the tremendous losses in­
curred after the five-month period ending November 30.
“We paid, less attention to daily indi­
cators than we should have,” Mayer told a 
TARTAN reporter. The Vali-Dine system
automatically gives a hard-copy printout 
stating cash intake and Vali-Dine trans­
actions at regular intervals 3 times a day.
“I think we clearly underestimated and 
misunderstood the extent of the problem, 
but even with those figures in October 
[showing a $70,000 lossj it looked as
though, overall, the University Food Ser­
vice system was on the way to recovery,” 
Mayer stated on the WRCT call-in talk 
show Profiles on Parade last Wednesday at 
8 PM.
The purpose of this previously un­
scheduled broadcast was to give the general 
student population an opportunity to ask 
Eichmuller and Mayer questions about 
Food Service. Most of the questions that 
were asked were about the closing of the 
Bakery /Deli, the lack of communication 
involved in this decision and high prices 
for seemingly poor quality goods.
continued on page 6
GSO recognized by Senate
$145,000 from the Activities Fee, an 
amount which must be raised at least 
$4.80 per student to cover inflation 
during the coming year. If Senate wished 
to allow capital improvements an addition­
al $16.40 per student is required and the 
rest of a $20 increase could be used to 
offset inflation in the year 1981-82. 
Pat Crump, Senate Treasurer, also out­
lined budgeting requirements and urged 
that Senate rescind the $20 increase (a 
position he later reversed, after some fur­
ther analysis of his figures).
Roger Jaussi, Chairperson of the United 
Fraternal Organization, stated that what 
Senate should be considering is the budget­
ing process itself, and not the relative in­
crease of the Activities Fee. Jim Balsom, 
SDC President, agreed that the budgeting 
methodology should be examined but this 
was not the time to deal with the compli­
cated and complex issues of allocation 
practices.
Representatives of the AB, WRCT, the 
TARTAN, and THISTLE all spoke in favor 
of a $20 increase, giving budget overviews 
as well as specific improvements that could 
be made if old equipment was replaced 
with better stuff. John Alexander of AB 
and Saul Carliner of THISTLE stressed in­
creased and more impressive services if the 
additional money was available, and urged 
Senate to reaffirm their initial position.
Senators then began to present various 
arguments, with Walt Young, Mike Inners, 
Mary Ann Lawton, Connie Smith, and
continued on page 6
On Tuesday, January 15, Student 
Senate passed a motion to recognize the 
Graduate Student Organization. The 
purpose of this group is “to establish a 
sense of community among the graduate 
students at Carnegie-Mellon University and 
serve them in a useful and constructive 
manner.”
There were many questions from the 
audience as to what exactly a “sense of 
community” would mean and how “useful 
and constructive” would be applied to the 
functions of this organization. One student 
in the audience commented: “Those terms 
can really mean anything they want them 
to mean.”
The graduate students who came to 
propose the GSO stated that as most grad­
uate students cannot live on campus, and 
have very few ways to meet other graduate
students, the organization is almost a nec­
essity.
The questioning of the Graduate 
Student Organization stemmed from a fear 
that this would be the beginning of a sep- 
erate government for graduate students. 
Another student commented that “there 
are enough divisions between us already in 
this University; this would divide us even 
more.”
Senate did "not seem concerned about 
the vague terminology in the proposal, and 
they passed the motion. They said that this 
organization would serve the more unique 
needs of the graduate student community 
and would be no different than any other 
organization on campus. They did, how­
ever, assign a special undergraduate liason 
from the Senate.
No other organizations recognized by 
Senate have a student liason.
They were right! Pittsburgh fans and the Steelers are number one, again.

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN
Deli fans unite!
The TARTAN attempted to survey the campus commu­
nity last week. “Would you patronize the Morewood 
Bakery/Deli if it were reopened?". The response was good 
compared to similar TARTAN surveys taken in the past.
The results were overwhelmingly in favor of reopening 
the Deli. The following are some of the explanatory com­
ments:
“...Perhaps // would patronize the Deli] with competitive 
prices, but that seems doubtful. ”
"/ don’t see how the Bakery ¡Deli lost money with the 
unreasonable prices they charged. The management sucks... " 
"/ miss my bagels in the morning, and the great sandwiches 
at lunch. Bring them back I”
"/ feel my rights have been violated. ”
"... The lack of communication is inexcusable. ”
"Perhaps student boycotts of Food Service might wake 
the CMU community up! How about it?”
"/ enjoyed the non-burdensome service of not having to 
walk to Ski bo from Morewood to get breakfast, lunch, and 
dinner."
"... Within reason, we're willing to pay to get it back. ”
"It’s the only good place to eat on campus. "
Food for thought
It appears that some of those voices have been heard by 
the decision-makers in Auxiliary Services. The Deli part of 
the Bakery/Deli will reopen tomorrow at 7 7 AM. And you 
can be sure that it will remain open only if there is signifi­
cant patronage.
Constructive criticism was the winner in this situation: 
Students and administrators worked together to come up 
with the start of a solution to several problems.
However, before we all go patting ourselves on the back 
for "putting the pressure on” and getting our way, we 
better realize that there is an issue here that is larger than 
just the reopening of the Deli. Somehow Food Service 
lost $100,000 in 5 months. Obviously there is a serious 
management problem with either the system or those who 
run it.
Student Senate has a motion before it that calls for an 
"audit of all Auxiliary Services” which "should be conduc­
ted by an independent auditing agency...the results of this 
audit should be reported directly to all Student Government 
groups at CMU ” as well as WRCT and the TARTAN (see ar­
ticle, page 22). We strongly support this motion, and urge 
Senate to pass it immediately. One very basic idea is there: 
"Student Senate believes that the student body, as the pri­
mary customer of these services, is entitled to be aware 
of the full facts behind the rates charged and management 
decisions of these divisions. ”
In this instance, a demonstration of solidarity by the 
student body is critically needed to add force to the Senate’s 
action. Students must attend the Senate meeting tonight at 
6:30 PM, in the Wherrett Room, Ski bo.
By the way ...
On the day of the first meeting of the Auxiliary Services 
Committee (see ‘Deli Reopens’, page one), the TARTAN 
called Yvonne McCredie, Student Services Coordinator for 
Auxiliary Services, and asked about the meeting. She said 
that there was no reason a TARTAN reporter could not 
attend, and tola us the time and place of the meeting.
A few minutes later, much to our surprise, Ms. McCredie 
called back and informed us of a slight change in plans: 
Oscar Mayer, Director of Auxiliary Services, said that a 
TARTAN reporter would not be permitted to attend the 
meeting.
Deciding that someone was very confused about a num­
ber of things (such as the wisdom of barring the student 
press), we showed up anyway, and interestingly enough, no 
comment was made.
If this kind of response by an administrator to the 
student press wasn’t so nearly effective, the TARTAN might 
satirize the bumbling attempts of our administrators to once 
again keep the CMU community from the knowledge be­
hind the decision-making processes.
But we ’re afraid there’s nothing to laugh at.
TARTAN
General Staff Meeting 
Wednesday, January 30 
7 PM, Wherrett Room
Guest Speaker:
Richard F. Fontana99
Pgh. Post-Gazette 
Assistant City Editor
Anyone interested in writing, editing, 
layout, art, photography, etc. is 
welcome to come.
The lettuce is greener
Editor:
I would like to offer a money- 
saving tip to your readers who are 
on the Vali-Dine system: Eat at 
the Faculty Dining Room.
The food costs no more, on 
the whole, and tastes a lot bet­
ter. I got a chicken casserole, 
a delicious eclair and a can of 
coke, and it only cost $1.80. 
The casserole was hot, the eclair 
was fresh and the coke had fizz. 
By comparison, a dry Tartan 
Beef sandwich, chalky-tasting 
french fries and a flat coke in 
the Grill costs $2.10.
In fact, just about everything 
in the Faculty Dining Room 
is competitively priced with the
other Food Service operations, 
and the food, service and atmos­
phere in the FDR are far superior. 
Someone even clears the table at 
the end of the meal. Now how’s 
that for service?
The only menu item I found 
that was appreciably more expen­
sive than the Chez Kiltie or the 
the Grill de Tartan was the ham­
burger, but I think real beef is 
worth $.40 more.
And as I said, the atmosphere 
sure beats out the competittion. 
First off, the view from the top 
floor of Skibo is breathtaking. 
Second, the Faculty Dining Room 
is a beautiful room. I think it 
makes a difference when you 
hire an interior decorator. Final-TARTAN
ly, you simply eat with a better 
class of people in the FDR. For 
instance, when I was there, I saw 
Dick V. and Ed come in, followed 
by Yvonne, and then there was 
Hugh D. and Gene L. It was 
like the Studio 54 of CMU.
Unfortunately, they are just as 
snotty at the FDR as the cus­
tomers at that famous disco. I 
came in with a group of my stu­
dent friends— and most of the 
people in the room turned their 
noses up at us.
But don’t let that spoil the 
best dining experience you could 
have at CMU. Go to the Faculty 
Dining Room for lunch one day. 
It gets 4 stars in my book.
A satisfied customer
Volume 80
Number 14
January 22,1980
News Editor 
Features Editor 
Entertainment Editors. Alan Spero
Melody Mazzie
Editor in Chief: Jean Pellegrini
Publication Manager: Michael Brzustowicz 
Managing Editors: Neil Adler
Brian Byrnes 
Business Manager: Karen Stevens 
Production Manager: Smita Pai 
Doug Kirsop 
Lynn Epstein
Sports Editor: Perry Colosimo
Magazine Editor: Susan Borg 
Photogiaphy Editor: Robert Zusman
News: Beth Arden, Pete Levin, Asst. Editors; Tim Barkwell, Jim Bost, Sue Brillman, Jeanette Bryan, Anne Cesnjk, Linda 
Dickerson, Larry Duffee, Ed Frankberry, Chris Gebhardt, Andre Jenkins, Mark Kennet, Pete Levin, Chris Magyai, Joshua 
Melvin. Deb Morgas, Debbie Nir, Elliot Ohlberg, Judy Ohlin, Andy Ragan, Vernon Valentine, Sue Wilkin, Elsie Yoder, 
Eddie Zayas.
Features: Jeanne Abmayr, Lisa Andruzzi, Luis Ball, Beth Bangor, Valerie Brandt, Art Benjamin, Michael Conroy, Chris 
Gebhart, Bob Gleason, Roger Harris, Neva Jones, Paul Karmin, Kathy Krummert, David Land, Kwasi Mensah, David 
Mills, Sheryl Sarima, Stu Seidman.
Entertainment: Ed Slosky, events editor; Scott Alburger, Kate Bertrand,Bob Henry, Dave Kirby, Paul L. Kravits, Cheryl 
Goodman, Timothy LeVan, Joan Livitski, Paul Mendler, Gretchen Miller, Aline Naters, Debbie Nir, Scott Schaffer, 
David Sheward.Ted Smits, Vernon Valentine.
Sports: David Wills, assistant editor; Fran Arsht, Ronnie Ben-Aron, Dave Brandwene, Pat Crump, Frank Pugliano,Scott 
Schatter, Bob Share, Thomas Smith, Lesley Weiser, Craig Woolheater.
Production: Ken Kulak, assistant manager; Neil Adler, Michael Brzustowicz, Gretchen Miller, Sue Wilkin, Eddie Zayas. 
Photography: Chuck Chidekel, Larry Duffee, Jenny Ladd, Skip Stong.
Art: Tom Hart, Acting Director; Robert Conroy, Andy Epstein, Tina Klem, Tom Megalis.
Copyright 1979 by the Carnegie-Mellon University Tartan. All rights reserved. The Editorial Board reserves the right 
to edit or withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Gov­
ernment of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; (412) 578-2111 or 2112. 
24-hour answering service 2113. Business Offices: Skibo 52; (412) 578-2111. Printed by Artcrafts Unlimited, 
Pittsburgh, PA 15206.

---------------------------------------------------

_______________________ vieurá
Cyert forms student-faculty education committee
The following “view from the top ” 
was written by President Richard 
M. Cyert.
I have formed a committee of fac­
ulty and students to study a num­
ber of important educational ques­
tions. This committee will be 
meeting monthly for a three-hour 
period. At each meeting there will 
be individuals with ideas about 
our educational process talking 
with the committee.
The work of the committee will 
be carried out through meetings in 
which individuals present infor­
mation on the educational pro­
cess and through the formation 
of small task forces assigned to 
specific problems. After a thorough 
investigation of the issues, we 
will formulate a series of recom­
mendations. These recommenda­
tions will become the basis of a 
policy that will be proposed to 
the relevant colleges and other 
groups such as the Faculty Senate 
and the Student Senate. It is my 
hope that the recommendations 
will be so clear and reasonable
Back to basics
Editor:
I didn’t even want to tell Food 
Service what they should do to 
make their system function-at an 
economical level. That would sat­
isfy everyone. I wouldn’t know 
how, and I doubt that anyone 
does. However, I feel there are 
some very basic problems that 
could be indicative of the real 
problems.
As silly as it may sound, I 
wonder how much money could 
be saved if the UFS would use 
plastic cups in the Kiltie Cafe that 
wouldn’t stick togetherJ If only 
one out of every four cups sticks 
to one (or sometimes more) other 
cup, then a Validine system is 
paying 20% too much for cups 
alone!
If the Tartan Grill would make 
edible french fries, then maybe 
they could sell more items such as 
Fish and Chips or Chicken Nug­
gets, which both include french 
fries in the prize. I personally do 
not like to buy the Fish and Chips 
because I regret not being able to 
eat the more than ample portion 
of french fries included, which 
costs me money.
I think a good start at getting 
out of the hole for the Food Ser­
vice would be to eliminate obvi­
ous waste and at least try to make 
the buyer feel that he is getting 
his money’s worth. There are no 
fast and easy solutions, such as 
closing the Bakery-Deli, so why 
not go back to the basics?
Sincerely, 
Peter Houston 
Have it your way
Editor:
Anyone who has read the Food 
Service pamphlets knows that the 
food in the Tartan Grill is much 
better than just ‘edible’. This 
evening I ordered 2 hotdogs and 
french fries up in the Grill. When 
the fries came first,- I tasted one, 
and much to my surprise, found it 
cold, dry, tasteless and generally 
inedible. I immediately informed
that there will be significant 
support for them.
I presented four major areas for 
investigation by the committee. 
The first is the question of how 
much general education there 
should be in a professional pro­
gram and what kind of general 
education that should be. There 
are many issues clearly within 
that question. I have become 
concerned over our situation at 
Carnegie-Mellon University be­
cause I believe that we have re­
duced somewhat the number of 
courses in general education that 
we are requiring, and we have 
allowed students to take courses 
in other professional areas, man­
agement for instance, that do not 
qualify as general education. It 
would also be useful if we could 
have a set of common courses in 
this area that everybody in the 
university could take. Students 
taking common courses have a 
basis for discussion after class. 
Hopefully, intellectual topics will 
replace the usual subjects for Con-
the cashier that the quality was 
unacceptable, and after a minor 
fuss they agreed to take it back. (I 
can only hope they didn’t resell 
it).
I am sure that my experience 
with bad quality food at the grill 
must be an isolated event (all the 
Food Service literature keeps tell­
ing me how good it is). However, 
I realize that some people might 
be embarrassed to return inferior 
quality food, and I feel that as a 
public service I should remind 
everyone that we can not expect 
Food Service to serve the food we 
like, if we don’t give them some 
feedback as to our desires.
Michael Michaels 
Quality makes quantity 
Editor:
A lot of people think life at 
CMU is expensive.
What people don’t realize is 
that there are a lot of reasons for 
the high cost of education.
For instance, a big gripe is the 
cost of a parking permit. Some 
people don’t believe that the CMU 
parking authority does not turn a 
profit. They have lots of expenses 
of their own. Our parking fees go 
towards replacing broken parking 
gates (at $12 to $30 each), print­
ing of parking tickets and rent on 
the parking lot at Mellon Institute 
($2000 a month).
If you trace all the records you 
find that the $2000 paid to Mel­
lon Institute is paid back into the 
CMU general fund under another 
guise.
And let’s not forget about the 
$12 to $30 they spend to replace 
a parking gate. Let’s assume they 
buy the gates in quantity; that 
should be about $5 each. Let’s 
assume a Physical Plant man is 
told to replace a gate at one 
o’clock. He starts off by taking a 
5 minute coffee break, then 
spends 5 minutes finding the new 
gate, 5 minutes walking to the 
Gate, 5 minutes to put the new 
gate on (there are only 4 bolts), 
5 minutes to walk back, and 
another 5 minute coffee break. If
versation among people who have 
no common bond of interests.
The second topic for the Educa­
tion Committee is the matter of 
continuing improvement in teach­
ing. On the basis of the various 
investigations I have made with 
students, I believe the major­
ity of our faculty are good 
teachers and the vast majority of 
our classes are well taught. Stu­
dents have estimated these per­
centages at 70 to 80 percent. Ob­
viously, I would like to see this 
figure at 100 percent. I am con­
cerned about such matters as 
using undergraduates to teach 
classes and using graduate stu­
dents with no prior training to 
teach classes. I would also like to 
have some kind of mechanism for 
helping more experienced teachers 
who want to improve their teach­
ing do so. These questions are all 
matters that I want the Education 
Committee to investigate.
The third matter is the question 
of ethics. There is a question
we assume that this man gets $10 
an hour, then replacing one gate 
has taken half an hour and cost 
$10. Yet the parking office is 
budgeted to spend between $12 
and $30.
And let’s not forget about the 
parking meters in front of Skibo. 
Rumor has it that their main­
tenance cost is about twice their 
revenue.
Do you know why the parking 
office has to charge so much for 
their parking tickets? They pay 
the salaries of two Security of- 
. fleers in exchange for Security 
handing out the tickets.
But of course, the parking of­
fice does serve a useful function. 
They pay for and maintain snow 
removal from all the CMU parking 
lots. In fact, they are so good at 
snow removal that they handle it 
for all the sidewalks on campus as 
well.
And while I am complaining I 
shouldn’t forget about housing. 
We all know that living on campus 
is expensive, but do we realize 
that it is much cheaper to live off 
campus? I live off campus and it 
costs a few hundred dollars a year 
less, and I have a place to store 
my stuff over the summer.
Why does on campus Housing 
cost so much? It’s very simple. 
They are still paying the univer­
sity for the dormitories.
Some people claim that CMU is 
big on engineering and computers. 
Apparently nobody told the nice 
people at Estate Planning about 
this. They decided that they 
wanted to have a Rolidex file con­
taining all the CMU alumni. Now 
I’m not sure if you are familiar 
with Rolidex files, but if you have 
a lot to put in them it takes a long 
while. For each person you put 
into your file you must feed 1 
tiny Rolidex card into your type­
writer, line it up, type the infor­
mation, pull the card out, file it 
away, and then start lining up the 
next card. In fact, it took two 
secretaries over a week to type up 
all the cards.
about the role of faculty and the 
role of the curriculum in helping 
students think through questions 
involving moral judgements. It is 
clear that we cannot give all the 
answers to the types of questions 
professionals will face in their life­
time, but I believe our education 
should help students develop skills 
for thinking through such pro­
blems. This matter is one in which 
I have had numerous discussions 
during the time I have been at 
Carnegie-Mellon. The one con­
clusion that has generally been 
agreed upon is that we cannot 
handle such questions by teaching 
a course in ethics. However, unless 
there is a special course or courses 
on the subject, these matters tend 
to be neglected. I am hoping that 
through discussion with the com­
mittee, we can arrive at an ans­
wer to this question that will 
benefit the student body.
fourth major area of con­
cern that I have presented to the 
committee is the method of keep­
ing our various curricula up to
I still wonder why they didn’t 
save themselves all that typing by 
having the computer print a list of 
all the alumni onto mailing labels. 
Then they would have been able 
to paste the lables onto Rolidex 
cards in one afternoon.
Some people complain that the 
people who work at CMU don’t 
care about CMU. Most of the 
people who don’t care have been 
here a while. The longer they have 
been here the more distressed 
they are with CMU. I was told by 
someone who worked in a depart­
ment stockroom that one day he 
caught a student trying to steal 
some equipment. The attendant 
made a loud fuss and called Se­
curity. The net result of the deal 
is that the attendant was repri­
manded for embarrassing the stu­
dent in front of classmates. The 
stockroom attendant no longer 
goes out of his way to avoid 
having things ripped off.
Last year while I was working 
at the campus radio station 
(WRCT) we had a router (a power 
tool) stolen from us. I promptly 
reported it to Security. We even­
tually had to spend money from 
the activities fee to buy a replace­
ment. A few months later I start­
ed to do some work for another 
student organization and found 
the router in their office. . I 
promptly reported it to Security; 
they didn’t care. I suspected some 
people of stealing it, and con­
fronted them with this; they ad­
mitted to stealing it. I told Dean 
Lois Cox about this; she didn't 
care. Not only has no action been 
taken against the people who stole 
the router, but they are still on 
the staff of WRCT.
Rumor has it that last year 
CMU Food Service made over 
$50,000 in profit. That’s enough 
to give everyone steaks on Friday 
at no extra cost.
And what aoout Vali-dine? 
Personally, I don’t use it. If some­
one else’s card goes bad and it oc­
casionally charges to my account 
instead of his, I am out of luck
date. I am particularly concerned 
that Carnegie-Mellon educate stu­
dents for the future. We do not 
want our students to become ob­
solete two years after graduation. 
We must, therefore, be concerned 
with keeping our curricula rele­
vant to the world and to the de­
velopments in the various profes­
sional and general educational 
areas that we teach. I would like 
to see a regular schedule of the 
review of each curriculum in each 
department. I hope that the 
committee will be able to shed 
light on and make some recom­
mendations in this area.
These topics are the ones that I 
have asked the committee to 
consider. I believe that as we pro­
ceed, there will be other problems 
that will be uncovered and the 
members of the committee will 
want to expand the agenda. 
The committee is composed of 
highly competent people, and I 
am looking forward to some 
significant results coming from 
their deliberations.letters
(and money). If I notice, and I go 
to food service and say I think my 
Vali-dine balance is wrong, and 
they say they think it is right, 
what can I say? The Vali-dine sys­
tem doesn’t give me any receipts 
to back up my side of the story 
and I am out of luck.
Students tend to complain a 
lot about the food and yet the 
administration never seems to 
listen to us. There is a reason for 
this: the administration eats in 
Food Service and finds the food 
acceptable, so students must be 
complaining about nothing. The 
difference is that the administra­
tion eats in the Faculty Dining 
Room which has food far superior 
to any other food service on cam­
pus.*
By the way, the Faculty Dining 
Room is in Skibo and is open to 
students. They just recently 
started to take Vali-dine because 
Faculty are now allowed to use it. 
If you haven’t heard about the 
Faculty Dining Room before, it 
might be because John Eichmuller 
doesn’t want you to. You know 
those little red glasses they sell 
at the Tartan Grill? When this 
year’s batch came in I heard Mr. 
Eichmuller pull one out, and 
while showing it off, say it lists 
every place but the Faculty Din­
ing Room, and we don’t want the 
students to know about that.
Of course, we should thank 
Food Service for being so recep­
tive to student input. Last semes­
ter when it was suggested that 
Salads Plus have two sets of top­
pings (a more expensive one and a 
cheaper one) instead of one price 
to cover everything from lettuce 
to tuna salad, Food Service agreed 
it was a wonderful idea, and 
agreed to switch to that scheme. 
We should all be cognizant of 
Food Service’s great speed at 
sticking to their word.
If you went to one of this 
year’s football games you should 
have noticed a few things about 
the concession stand. It was 
slower, more expensive and lower

---------------------------------------------------

quality than the year before. For 
the last few decades (until this 
year), football concessions were 
run by Alpha Phi Omega (the 
national service fraternity). Last 
year, because Alpha Phi Omega 
was allegedly too slow, too expen­
sive, poor quality, and making 
money tha<: Food Service should 
have been getting, CMU Food 
Service took over football con­
cessions. Alpha Phi Omega usual­
ly donates substantial sums of 
money to charity each year.
By the way, if it makes any of 
you feel better, even though 
Alpha Phi Omega made a little 
money at it, Food Service lost 
money.
Football concessions were im­
portant to Alpha Phi Omega be­
cause they were public exposure 
for them, and hence, a major 
source of new members. But then, 
why should the administration 
care about Alpha Phi Omega? 
They only do obscure things like 
run the Faculty Course Evalua­
tion, run Book Exchange, and 
publish the student directory (C-
Book), among others.
Michael Fryd
Individual obligation 
Editor:
I wish to applaud L. Vernon 
Valentine’s column, Awareness 
Anyone?, in last week’s 
TARTAN! The horror of apart­
heid is something we should all be 
aware of and concerned about, 
particulary Carnegie-Mellon’s 
budding entrepreneurs and engi­
neers. As individuals, we have an 
obligation to educate our fellow 
students and to work to ensure 
that all people are free.
Divestment of the University’s 
holdings in corporations with 
interests in South Africa is one 
way to indicate disapproval of 
apartheid. Of course, tliat’s pro­
vided sale of the stocks is accom­
panied by a clarifying statement 
to the corporations involved. 
But one ot the purposes of hold­
ing stock is to have the opportuni­
ty to influence major policies and 
decisions of the corporations. 
Should the University divest itself,
it would lose the opportunity to 
band with other concerned stock­
holders to express outrage at 
apartheid-oriented activities. Di­
vestment would only leave the 
unconcerned or uninformed to 
make those decisions! Instead, the 
University should do what it can, 
with the power it has, to make 
major corporations aware that 
legalized racism is unacceptable.
I was a student at Brandeis 
University last year, present at the 
“peaceful demonstration” held to 
coerce the University to divest. I 
was threatened when I tried to 
attend classes, and I saw most of 
the academic buildings defaced. 
Brandeis students may be more 
informed about world events, but 
their sense of responsibility is 
non-existent. Perhaps the saddest 
part of the whole episode was that 
the administration laughed at 
their childish behavior and prob­
ably ignored most of the reason­
able arguments because of it. 
I’ll bet sand-blasting the buildings 
cost a bundle.
We can protest against racism
and sexism peacefully and effec­
tively, as individuals. By educating 
ourselves, opening our minds, 
reaching out to others, we can 
change the world a little piece at 
a time. Just as CMU is not an 
island, neither are you.
C. D. Councill 
Look it up
Editor:
In my opinion, L. Vernon 
Valentine, in his article ‘CMU is 
not an island. . (TARTAN, Jan­
uary 15) made a gross generaliza­
tion, and then proceeded to con­
demn the entire campus as a re­
sult of his miscalculation.
In his opening paragraph, Mr. 
Valentine states that nearly 60% 
of polled students failed to de­
fine “apartheid”. Because the re­
sponse was so poor, Mr. Valentine 
feels that CMU may be a campus 
of uncaring, unknowing, pseudo­
enlightened students.
I feel that the author of that 
article failed to recognize the 
difference between the students’ 
vocabulary capabilities, and the 
degree to which they care about
varying world situations.
It is conceivable that the 40% 
of those polled that could define 
“apartheid” (a legalized system 
of racial separation) have no con­
cern whatsoever for such a situa­
tion. Even more believable is the 
possibility that of the 60% that 
could not define the word, many 
of them still knew that such a 
situation was in existence. Mr.
Valentine ignores the fact that 
students not knowing the word’s 
meaning may in fact have formed 
strong opinions about the issue. 
True, these students may be suf­
ficiently apathetic to protest, and 
apathy is a serious problem on 
this campus; however, Mr. Valen­
tine’s verdict of ignorance, based 
on his poll, is definitely un­
founded.
Mr. Valentine concluded his 
article by suggesting that students 
read the papers or news magazines 
as a remedy for ignorance. What 
he really wants, I think, is for 
students to read the dictionary.
Victor S.B. Jorden 
Junior, MIS
The world is waiting.
If you've got talent, we want to see it And then 
we ll let you show it to the world at The Old Country. 
Busch Gardens. * in Wiiliamsburg. Va
During our 1980 Audition Tour we'll be looking for 
more singers, dancers, musicians, costume charac­
ters. mimes, jugglers, puppeteers and light and 
sound technicians than ever before
Show off your talent to thousands of visitors 
daily in one of seven stage productions or six 
“street shows'1 in our unigue European theme 
setting And witb the addition of our brand new 
country, Italy, our world just got bigger And so 
did yours
You'll work with other outstanding talents and 
earn a good salary while you're at it.
So get your act together and show it to us.
Audition date:
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 
Wed. Jan. 30,1-5 p.m. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse 
The Theatre Downstairs 222 Craft Ave.
Jhe
Country
GSOre cognizO 
dbSbyaOttgc lo
Then get ready to show it to the world.
Accompanist. record player and cassette recorder *iit be available 
An equal opportunity employer M F'H
TARTAN Elections
February 4, 6 PM 
Room 33 Skibo 
Positions Available: 
Editor-in-Chief 
News Editor 
Entertainment Editor 
Photography Editor 
Sports Editor 
Dossier Editor 
Features Editor
Candidates for Editor-in-Chief must be 
full-time CMU students who have worked on the 
TARTAN 
for at least one semester.
Candidates for section editors must be 
full-time CMU students.
I work for exceptional people...
Joe
Mauti
. . . my clients. And I like to think I perform 
exceptionally well for them — when it comes to 
things like generating funds for a college edu­
cation, or finding applicable tax advantages, or 
setting up an effective employee benefit pro­
gram. Yes, I’m a professional life insurance 
underwriter and proud of it. And if you’re the 
least bit skeptical about what a tremendously 
flexible financial tool life insurance really is, 
you ought to get in touch.
Get the most out of life with
SZEYLLER
ASSOCIATES 3
STATE COLLEGE PA (814) 238-0544 
PITTSBURGH PA (412) 824-0422
PROVIDENT 
MUTUAL
LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY 
OF PHILADELPHIA
248 Calder Way State College PA 16801 
400 Penn Center Boulevard Pittsburgh PA 15235
THIS SPACE FOR RENT. 
Call Karen Stevens at (412) 
578-2111, 2113 or write to
TARTAN 
Box 17 
5020 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213

---------------------------------------------------

January 22,1980—TARTAN—Page 5
Maintenance problems of housing system examined
by Jeanette Bryan
“There is a great attitude of indiffer­
ence among the maintenance service 
people at CMU,” the campus cries.
Most students feel that maintenance 
service is extremely inefficient. For 
instance; in Morewood complaints were 
placed early last semester about a broken 
refrigerator on 5-D, a clogged sink on 4-D 
and problems with plumbing in 6-C bath­
rooms. Furniture in the lounges disappears 
without ever being replaced. In Hamer- 
shlag, hallways are dim because light bulbs 
are rarely replaced. Men living there also 
complained of broken door knobs not 
being fixed, missing shower knobs not 
being replaced and low water pressure.
In Boss Hall, there is no hot water in
some of the showers until later in the 
morning. McGill residents also report slow 
results from maintenance in repairing fix­
tures such as lights, towel racks and fire 
boxes.
In addition to these inconveniences, 
students are even more concerned with fire 
hazards in some of the dorms. People in 
Morewood have doubts about the wiring 
system. “Everytime my refrigerator begins 
recycling, my lights blink,” one coed re­
ported. Many others have experienced 
water leakage through their AC outlets. 
Fuses also seem to blow quite frequently. 
Other fire safety infractions include open 
circuit boxes (on 6-D and 5-B) and hot 
incandescent bulbs against woodwork(4-C) 
In other dorms, including Hamershlag and
McGill, fire extinguishers and exit signs 
that are missing have not been replaced.
Another major problem is heat. 
Students from virtually every dorm com­
plained of “suffocation.” Many cannot 
shut their radiators off, and even those 
that can adjust their heat find it unbearable 
at times.
Most fell that clothes washing facilities 
are too limited, especially in Morewood. 
On the average, two or three washers and 
dryers are broken, further limiting facil­
ities. A problem in Hamershlag is that the 
hoses on the dryers are disconnected, 
allowing the hot air to accumulate in the
This doorknob on a Hamerschlag door has 
been broken since last semester.
small, not well ventilated room. This room 
becomes so stuffy that one can hardly 
breathe.
Work to begin on MM storefronts
New department heads arrive
Sangrey, Civ E. Westerberg,Chem E
by Neil Adler
“I think tremendous opportunities exist 
here in Pittsburgh for a program that 
I hope will become a national model for 
Civil Engineering education,” answered 
Dwight Sangrey, the new head of the 
Civil Engineering Department is response 
to why he came to CMU from Cornell Uni­
versity.
Sangrey and the Civ E faculty propose 
to institute a program of education whose 
key elements would include the interaction 
of the University with the engineering 
community of Pittsburgh. Sangrey envi­
sions three levels of interaction, including:
continued on page 22
by Joshua Medvin
Dr. Arthur W. Westerberg has taken over 
as head of the. Chemical Engineering De­
partment. Westerberg, who received his 
M.S. from Princeton University and his 
Ph.D. from Imperial College, University 
of London, was chosen to replace former 
department head Dr. Thomas Fort Jr.
Westerberg came to CMU in 1976. His 
major reason for selecting CMU was that 
“the research areas for my major interests 
(research in computer aided process analy­
sis and optimization and synthesis for 
design in computer control) were perfect 
at CMU.”
continued on page 22
by L. Vernon Valentine
Students can expect to see the long 
vacant Margaret Morrison Storefronts area 
go into operation some time this Spring, 
according to Irene Daugherty, director of 
campus stores. She pointed out, however, 
that the time projection for the beginning 
of the storefront operations is not definite, 
but is dependent upon the upcoming cost 
estimates from Physical Plant. She noted 
that “the two things we’re looking at first 
are a convenience store and a laundry.”
After talking with Margaret Morrison 
Apartment residents last fall, Dougherty 
said that several needs surfaced. One was 
the “need for a convenience type store, 
similar to a ‘Seven-Eleven or ‘Open Pan­
try’.” Another basic need was for addition­
al laundry services. Further indicated was a 
need for a service arcade which would 
provide a “pick-up and drop” type service 
in the way of a drycleaners and shoe repair.
Cosair Chemical, a Pittsburgh firm, is bringing a number of innovative products to market. All are tested 
and laboratory approved. A final statistical survey covering a broad spectrum of users is required, and the 
assistance of interested and qualified students is being enlisted through this announcement.
QUALIFICATIONS OF SURVEY PARTICIPANTS
* Must have motor vehicle {gas or diesel) 
beyond the normal break-in period
* Must know current fuel mileage
* Must be eighteen years or older
PRODUCTS TO BE TESTED
PRODUCT A 
Automotive fuel extender. Should increase mpg 
10-35%, increase power, decrease hydrocarbon 
and carbon monoxide pollution, reduce repair 
and maintenance at a cost of 27.8 cents per 10 
gallons of fuel.
PRODUCT B 
Ultra-low friction polymer automotive lubri­
cant/additive. Should increase mpg 15-30%, in­
crease power compression, extend engine life, 
reduce repair and maintenance at a cost of 0.05 
cents per mile (50,000 iViile life cycle).
To encourage responsible treatment of samples and to eliminate spurious replies, a charge is made for the 
products and a rebate given upon our receipt of the completed survey. The charge covers product cost, 
packing and shipping, insurance, return postage, and sales tax (required by state law).
DUE TO LIMITED FUNDS, PARTIAL REBATES SHALL BE MADE 
ONLY TO THE FIRST 800 RESPONDENTS
DEADLINE
FEBRUARY 15, 1980
Editor’s Note: These products have been tested by the Essex Group, a subsidiary of United Technologies, 
and independant testing laboratory. All claims made by Corsair Chemical are supported by both labora­
tory and actual road tests. As stated above, Corsair does carry insurance, and the TARTAN accepts neither 
responsibility nor liability for the products.
I would like to participate by testing (please check one) 
Name _. Age_
—Product A. 
$5.82
.Product BJioth
$9.13 $14.95
Amount enclosed $_____
Address 
City___State..Zip.
Return this portion to: Director of Marketing 
Corsair Chemical 
2105 Murray Avenue 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15217
Such needs, Daugherty felt, were a result 
of increased student population and a lack 
of facilities in the area.
Because of the design, the storefronts 
posed an initial problem: a lack of emer­
gency exits. However, after consultation 
with Safety Coordinator Robert Anderegg, 
it was decided that the size of the store­
fronts required only one exit to meet 
safety standards.
Funding for the storefronts, according 
to Oscar Mayer, Director of Auxilary 
Services, can come from several possible 
sources - one being the resources of Auxil­
ary Services. However, Mayer reiterated, no 
action can be taken until cost estimates are 
recieved from Physical Plant. Mayer said 
that the department is basically an engi­
neering and coordinating service, and 
would not necessarily be involved in 
construction.
At present, the storefronts are “shells” 
lacking complete electrical and heating 
systems. Daugherty stated that the comple­
tion of the stores will take time. As she put 
it, “It is far more costly to do something 
in a hurry and have to do it over again.”
When the stores do open, the service 
format will be patterned after the other 
campus stores, Daugherty said. She noted 
that it would maintain a regular staff, 
supplemented by a number of flexible 
work/study students. She further mention­
ed that the stores’ hours would probably 
tend to be later than the other campus 
stores, a direct response to student needs.
Models wanted for hair- 
cutting classes. Register in 
person, Philip Pelusi. The 
Bank Center, downtown 
1814 Murray Avenue, 
Squirrel Hill.
TAKE THE NATIONAL CENTER FOR EDUCATIONAL TESTINGLSAT
PREPARATIONCOURSE
ATLANTA
PHILADELPHIA
PITTSBURGH
WASHINGTON
A complete. coaprtk<nftvf 
conn, developed by lawyers 
•ad educator* to fully prepare 
you for Ike L.S.A.T.
Call toll-free:(800)223-2618
in New York Slate call (212) 247 2790for complete information, a free brochure and an invitation to a free introductory session.
The National Center ior Education Testing. 1271 Avenue of the Ament as. Suite 777. New York. N Y. 10020
TEST WITH CONPmi

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—TARTAN—January 22, 1980
Food Service Concessions lose money
Since taking over sporting events conces­
sions from Alpha Phi Omega (A Phi O) this 
year, Food Service achieved its goal of 
breaking even on sales during football 
games, but has so far, experienced sales 
losses during basketball games.
According to John Eichmuller, Direc­
tor of Food Service, his office entered the 
concessions business with the intent of 
breaking even, “and we were very success­
ful in that end during football games.” 
Part of that success, says Eichmuller, was 
the fact that the concesssions people were
anxious about working at the stadium 
and wanted to present themselves as 
professionals. Added Eichmuller, “It 
was a new challenge for us that inspired 
our workers to try harder.”
However, sales at basketball games have 
not been as successful and Food Service 
has realized losses. Explains Eichmuller 
“The space where we sell is limited and the 
only time that we have to make real 
sales is during the relatively short half- 
time.” Another problem that is encount­
ered in making food sales in the gym­
nasium is that people are not permitted to 
take food and drinks back to their seats 
because of the gym floor. “Only so many 
people will fit into the small area at one 
time,” stated Eichmuller.
Eichmuller added that what Food Service 
will do, starting with the next home bas­
ketball game, is to reduce the number of 
items that will be sold as well as reducing 
the number of sales personnel. “By cutting 
back on the variety of items we can reduce 
our overhead,” claims Eichmuller.
Last year, consessions at sporting events
Deli reopens,some questions still remain
continued from page 1
One student asked about income re­
ceived from investment of vali-dine funds.
“You are delving into the area of cash 
management and that is not something the 
food service management can claim to have 
a great deal of expertise in,” stated Mayer.
This reporter pointed out that many 
contract holders feel that they are not get­
ting the benefit of the interest on their 
money in vali-dine accounts. The student 
who called in asserted that the 15% vali- 
dine discount was given because students 
do hand their food money over earlier than 
cash customers. Mayer and Eichmuller 
agreed.
Both administrators, have repeatedly 
remarked that students don’t realize or 
appreciate the discount they receive. In 
reality, however, vali-dine contract holders 
are entitled to this money because of inter­
est that is lost by keeping money in a vali- 
dine account rather than a bank account.
One student asked why treatment of 
customers is far superior in the faculty 
dining room than in student food service
operations. Mayer replied that treatment 
should not be different from one operation 
to the next.
When asked why students are not en­
couraged or even told that they are permit­
ted to eat in the Faculty Dining Room, in 
spite of the fact that the Dining Room is 
known to continuously be struggling, 
Mayer responded: “We don’t check ID 
cards.”
The Faculty Dining Room, however, is 
not mentioned in the Food Service descrip­
tion booklet or on the Food Service con­
tract for students. The dining room was 
also omitted from the memo sent to stu­
dents announcing this semester’s Food 
Service changes.
Student reaction to the decision to re­
open the deli has been reserved but happy. 
Most were glad to see that in this case 
student input made a difference. Others 
responded: “It’s about time.” Still others 
are circulating a petition stating their dis­
satisfaction with Food Service, in general. 
At press time there were 917 signatures on 
this petition.
There seems to be a conscious effort on 
the part of many students not to allow 
themselves to become appeased by the re­
opening. There are many questions that 
have yet to be answered and students are 
concerned that they are the ones who will 
bear the costs of these mistakes in the long 
run.
Student Senate, the United Fraternal 
Organization and the Student Dorm Coun­
cil have drafted a resolution to have the 
Auxiliary Services books audited by a pub­
lic accounting firm, at student expense. 
This expense is believed to be less than the 
expense that is currently being incurred by 
inefficient management.
In addition, SDC and UFO have passed 
motions condemning the closing of. thte 
Bakery/Deli and the lack of communi­
cation in the decision-making process.
Most students are glad that the admin­
istration listened this time; many are con­
cerned about the next time the students 
are omitted from the decision-making 
process in this University.
ALONE AND PREGNANT?
A coring, confidential friend, 
LIFELINE. DOWNTOWN PITTSBURGH 
562-0543. Free Pregnancy Testing. 
Evening Hours Available
Career Conference for Recent Graduates (Winter ’79 to Spring ’80) in
Engineering Data Processing Business & ManagementIA
LEIMDMAIM
ASSOCI ATE S
Meet with over 35 hiring companies looking for graduating students for the positions 
they have to offer NOW!
Lendman Associates Career Conference Friday, February 1 in Pittsburgh
Being held at a major Pittsburgh Hotel on Friday, February 1, Lendman Associates will 
bring in over 35 major U.S. corporations to attend this Career Conference. These 
companies will be actively hiring candidates for various Entry Level Engineering, Data 
Processing, Business & Management Positions in the local area as well as nationwide.
OUTSTANDING GROUND FLOOR OPPORTUNITIES ARE BEING OFFERED 
IN THE FOLLOWING AREAS:
Production Supervision 
Process Control 
Process Engineering
Sales
Management 
Operations Research
Systems Analysts/Programmers 
Micro Processors *
Plus Many others...
You will be able to interview with company representatives of your choice, all in one 
location, all at no cost or obligation to you. All companies are equal opportunity 
employers and minority and female candidates are encouraged to apply.
To register for this conference, please send immediately, 10 copies of your resume 
(which will be reviewed by the attending companies), to: Mr. Gordon Haggett, 
Lendman Associates, P. O. Box 62682, Dept: CM-121, Virginia Beach, VA 23462
were handled by A Phi O and, explains 
president Cindy Lubon,” it (consessions) 
was one of our major fall activities. It was 
our way of letting new students know who 
we were. We are a useful campus service 
and this action has hurt us.”
According to Lubon, A Phi O is not 
upset due to lack of revenue because they, 
like Food Service, were only interested in 
breaking even. Claims Lubon, what the 
organization is concerned with is that the 
decision to give the concessions to Food 
Service wasn’t discussed- and was an­
nounced at the last minute. Said Lubon, 
“I am just upset with the way that the 
transfer was handled. We weren’t given 
any warning.”
Activities Fee
continued trom page 1
graduated (15% of the $20 increase for all 
students, a total of $15,000, would be set 
aside to cover extra-costs during the year 
1981-82. However, as Crump and Balsom 
pointed out, this would be after approxi­
mately a $50,000 increase in the current 
activity spending).
Mary Ann Lawton (CIT), Chairperson 
of the Senate Finance Committee, explain­
ed that she had never known a club’s bud­
get to go down (a fact later refuted by tlie 
major organizations, i.e. the TARTAN) 
and that she feared the organizations 
would become “addicted” to the “shot in 
the arm” of capital improvements. Smith 
Jim Balsom leading the discussion.
Walt Young (GSIA), stressing that he 
was speaking for his constituency and not 
himself, cited a survey of 16% of the grad­
uate students which showed that 99% of 
those he asked believed that there should 
be no increase in the Activities Fee. Sever­
al senators questioned the various aspects 
of his survey, with one senator inquiring as 
to whether the poll was conducted before 
or after the formation of the Graduate Stu­
dent Organization, a club responsive to 
graduate student needs which will receive 
Activities Fee funding.
Inners expressed a deep concern over 
the senior and graduate students who 
would be paying money for activities 
which would take place after they had 
(CIT) explained that capital improvements 
of this nature are a one-time expense of the 
organization, and that subsequent budgets 
would smaller.
A proposal by Dan Nichols (H&SS) that 
would raise the fee $15 next year and $5 
the year after was dropped after Crump 
and Swank explained that the subsequent 
increase would need to be $10 instead of 
$5 in order to cover inflated costs on capi­
tal improvements and other additions.
After several requests to call the ques­
tion, Senate voted on the issue. They re­
jected the motion to rescind by a count of 
8-10-1.
After the final vote, Senate considered a 
resolution calling for an audit of Auxiliary 
Services. (See pate 22 for text of motion.) 
The resolution was tabled pending further 
information (the cost of an aiyJit, etc.) and 
will be considered again during tonight's 
meeting at 6:30 in the Wherrett Room.
ENERGY.We can't afford to waste it.
CALL 578-2921
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40ACMU TRAVEL OFFICE

---------------------------------------------------

features
Ode to Food Service
by Benjamin Smith 
Between the halls of this our school, 
With faces set in hungry scowls 
Like half-starved goats or famished ghouls 
From class to class we dash or prowl, 
And dream of bread or fish or fowl.
Our hands grip tight on books and tools 
As our collective stomach growls 
(Defying thus the golden rule).
We hate our classe», work we shun,
But classes end, some work gets done, 
And then, like bullets from a gun,
From dorms and halls and fields we run.
At dear old Carnegie-Mellon 
The happy hour has begun,
And by the hundreds, as if one 
We troop in droves to join the fun.
We surge forth, gabbing -as we do 
To Kiltie Cafe, Morewood, too.
By eights and six teens, fours and twos,
The clatter of a thousand shoes;
We come in many shapes and hues: 
Blacks, browns, and whites 
(but no more blues).
At first they let in just a few,
But soon the turnstiles let us through.
Then someone further up the line 
Shouts,“What’s this little ball of slime?”
We crane our necks to read the sigti. 
“It’s iron filings, braised in brine!”
Yes, you’ll get yours and I’ll get mine.
We start to drool, our eyes, ashine
And then, Attack! With tooth and tine
A meal sooo fine! It’s Vali-dine!
Me thinks it must be smelled and seen: 
Thick streamers of hot, noxious steam 
Waft gently through the air in streams 
From serried ranks of steel tureens.
The greens are brown; the meat is green:
The \fresh fruit ’ has a waxy sheen
That makes one wonder where it’s been,
And if it’s really what it seems. ^
The laughing staff will spit and grin 
And serve you up some bones and skin.
Or, if you ’re trying to stay thin,
Say, “Tartan stew please, hold the tin. ”
But if you see a scale or fin
You know it’s battered fish portion.
Our stomachs twist, our senses spin- 
Who cares? We ’re dying to dig in!
We sit where we have sat so oft.
Our laden forks we lift aloft;
Our food is gobbled, drinks are quaffed, 
Each head bent over a plastic trough.
We slurp and giggle, talk and cough.
At well-bred connoisseurs we scoff,
Until, replete, our voices soft,
We stagger up, and stumble off.
At first, it’s hard to eat, we find.
But soon our systems get resigned.
Computer Science, Psych, Design:
Our tastes are catholic, unrefined.
For feasting past we won't repine—
Our Kiltie Cafe’s muctf maligned!
We relish every crust and rind 
Delicious in the taster’s mind!
No need for cash, no need to sign,
A meal soooo fine! It’s Vali-dine!
(Editor’s Note: It seems that the Food 
Service crisis has not only stirred the gas­
tric juices in grumbling stomachs, but it has 
also set the creative juices in motion. Here 
are two popular, and graphic, opinions.)
The Ballad of the Sad Café
by Valerie Brandt
I know a lot’s been said about the food at C.M. U.
But food service deserves it, after what they put us through.
When I was young, I took for granted every meal I had,
But how could I have known that college food would be so bad?
I really wasn’t such a critic when I first arrived;
I thought, “It may not taste like much, but should keep me alive. ”
But now I have my doubts about the latter of the two- 
If this keeps up, I’ll probably die before the year is through.
Allow me to elaborate on why I feel this way:
It’s difficult to get even one decent meal a day.
Breakfast and lunch in Morewood were sufficient, I suppose...
It surely was a shock to find the Bakery-Deli closed.
The first semester, I avoided eating at Skibo,
But when they shut down Morewood, there was no place left to go.
So now it’s either Kiltie, or the famous Tartan Grill;
(Repeated use of either menu tends to make me ill.)
But those who want to diet will soon find to their delight,
That Skibo food will really help to curb your appetite.
But I suppose the Kilitie Cafe has its good side to;
They make every attempt to keep those long lines flowing through;
They offer a variety of different foods as well...
(Different, that is, from how you think that food should look and smell).
When I came back this year, there was a fairly large amount 
(Three hundred dollars) missing in my Vali-Dine account.
I had a cancelled check to prove that I had paid my bill...
That’s all been settled now. So here I’m sitting, in the Grill,
Eating a pizza bagel, which is sticking to the plate
(They ’re not much for nutrition, but you're sure to gain some weight.)
That’s what I have to say about the food at C.M. U.
It’s too expensive, and it doesn’t taste like food ought to.
And if your stomach is strong enough, it may have some appeal.
But as for me, I think III go downtown for my next meal.
photo by Janny Ladd photo from 1969 Thistle

---------------------------------------------------

Spirit Film Festival 
THE STRUGGLE IS 
INTERNATIONAL
MALCOLM X 
STRUGGLE FOR FREEDOM 
LAST GRAVE AT 
DIMBAZA
A CANDID LOOK AT SOUTH AFRICA'S 
DEHUMANIZING SYSTEM OF RACIAL 
1 OPPRESSION
BLACKS BRITANNICA
A FILM THAT DEALS SPECIFICALLY WITH 
RACISM IN BRITAIN WHILE AT THE 
SAME TIME DEMONSTRATING THE 
INTERNATIONAL RESULTS OF 
BRITISH RACISM.
I ! • *
" A Relentless, hardhitting exposure of the racial 
and economic oppression of Britain's Black population . .
—Black Collegian
Sundayff January 27 7:00 PM 
Wherrett Room. Skibo Hall

---------------------------------------------------

January 22,1980—TARTAN—Page 9
A student's opinionCatharsis
(Audrey Mojinie, the author of this piece, hopes that “perhaps this will speak to 
those who have stopped listening.')
I’m beginning to think it comes in cycles now-not that I’ll ever be able to under­
stand the pattern. But it always starts the same way-you have a day that isn’t day at 
all, when the sun shines dimly, hidden beliind all the clouds. Like most other days 
there is something which needs doing immediately, before anything else, and so I do it 
quickly and well enough to get by and receive the hollow praise from friends who see 
only the work and not the hectic, hurried, half-hearted creation of it.
Then afterwards, suddenly, the oh-so-structured day had evaporated with the com­
pletion of the immediate task. There is a twinge, oh-so-slight, of doubt and a vague 
feeling that the business of my day is always this fragile, protected by a steel frame­
work of “you musts” and “it’s gotta be’s” like the crisscrossing metal I remember 
in front of the windows at my elementary school.
I shrug, half-hoping that whatever has fallen on my back will now fall off. Blame it 
on lack of vitamin C, or not really stretching muscles lately (but,but-I have an excuse- 
they must heal themselves, rest from being bruised and battered in a recent fall). Blame 
it on being separated from Megan and David and Paula and really never being able to 
know another person the way I know them, for some unknown reason. Blame it on 
your praying the night before for God to say your prayers for you because your spirit 
is so damnably exhausted.
Struggle on. Blame doesn’t cleanse, and besides, I can always go work for awhile 
and forget the burden now heavy on my shoulders. And so begins the long walk along 
the sidewalks, passing the engineers in three-piece suits on their way to CIA interviews, 
and the artists who won’t reply to my greeting because they’re either subservient to 
their own world or completely divorced from the walkway we share. And among the 
engineers and artists the humanists who accept the plastic spoon of their engineered 
education, swallowing a core of wisdom which is nearly choked with its own conserv­
atism and inherent inconsistencies.
In little knots the faculty move along, carefully safe in the rationalization of the need 
foi tenure or resigned to the realm of status quo. Those who speak out (published 
quarterly or whispering in the corners of closed offices) are unheard, even together 
unable to slice the fog which hides any vision of change. Behind it all are the staff, 
counting the food service tomato paste inventory or convincing another high school 
senior of a logical, professional choice.
Halfway through my walk I stop, completely hating the Administration with every 
fiber of my body. I want to hurt them, wake them, make them see the horror of dividing 
the people, alienating and antagonizing one group against another as they moralize 
with stone libraries of narrow-minded, uncaring philosophies of specialization and intel- 
lectualism. I feel again the pain of being beaten and broken and molded to fit the cor­
porate scheme which one called not a God but No God. Yet it is all that those who 
support it can cling to, having long ago rejected what still speaks clearly in the needs of 
each person of right action and relationship.
I start going back home, balancing myself along the crack running through the side­
walk and remembering my dream of the woman who walked by and told me not to 
walk so close to the edge because I’d fall off. I feel ashamed of my violent thoughts, 
angry with myself for not being able to act for justice without harming others. In a 
daze I find my apartment building, climb up to my floor and go into my bedroom, 
where the face of the lion on my blanket stares back at me ferociously. I take off my 
shoes and collapse on the bed crying, silently begging to be devoured, cleansed.
MUSICIANS-PERFORMERS
OBERLIN, OH - MON., FEB. 4 
Oberlin College 
Bibbins Hall
MORGANTOWN, WV - WED.. FEB. 6 
West Virginia University 
Towers Dorm — Classroom 6-5 
PITTSBURGH, PA. - THURS., FEB. 7 
CrossGates Inn Forbes at McKee Place 
AKRON, OH - FRI., FEB. 8 
University of Akron 
Thomas Hall
TECHNICIANS 
Please send resumes by Feb. 8 Also at Cedar Point Feb. 2 & 9
AUDITIONS BEGIN AT 1 PM For other audition sites and 
further information contact:
LIVE SHOWS 
Cedar Point 
Sandusky, OH 44870 
(419) 626-0830
Itme^r^ayemenwarnl
Sieve Conroy
TMEKl TMCY PULL TWÉM UP To TrtC BCtHTH FLOOR, woo hbO 
BKKX* OWTÏL THE CAftLE 
BREAKS. THE ONLY CATÇ.H IS 
THAT VCU HW6 TO 86 1C 
VOU* ELEVATOR, WMIL6 IT’S 
MlNXV TEVT60,
TARTAN General Staff Meeting 
Wednesday 7 p.m., Wherrett Room 
Everyone is invited to attend
ARE YOU INTERESTED IN —
• becoming a leader in the campus
community?
• becoming an integral part of 
campus programming?
0 becoming a resource person to 
residents for academic, personal, 
and social problems?
THEN YOU MAY BE INTERESTED IN BECOMING 
A RESIDENT ASSISTANT.
Job descriptions and applicattons will be available at either of 
the two "Interest Sessions" to be held Thursday evening, January 
31, at 7:00 P.M. in the Wherrett Room and Sunday, February 3, at 
3:00 P.M. in the Skibo Ball Room. Please note that you must at­
tend one of these "Interest Sessions ' in order to apply for the 
position of Resident Assistant.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10—TARTAN—January 22,1980
SAC MEETING
Wednesday, January 23,1980
4:30 pm
H&SS Lounge 254C BH
All H&SS students are 
invited to attend
Second in a series
Phase Two for beginning guitarists: making chords
by Leslie P. Weinberg
Before you begin, check to see what 
condition your fingernails are in. If they 
are long, file them down. You may want to 
leave your picking hand nails longer so you 
can pluck the strings with your nails if you 
intend on finger picking.
Your tender fingers will be a little sore 
until hard callouses are built up. A begin­
ner should realize that at first the finger 
positions will feel awkward. Practice is 
the only way to overcome this feeling. 
After callouses build up, it is much easier 
to push strings, and the uncoordinated 
feeling will disappear.
There are two ways to teach yourself 
chords which I will recommend. Both 
are effective and the one that will work 
best will depend on your personality. The 
first is the Mel Bay technique. Mel Bay, 
a famous teacher of folk stringed instru­
ments, has written many guitar books for
the beginner. The second technique has 
been devised by me. It is the method 
which I used to teach myself.
To use the first technique, buy a guitar 
chord book by Mel Bay or some other 
guitarist, which contains chord diagrams 
and pictures. At first it is advisable to 
learn simple chords which use two or 
three fingers to form the chord. Major 
and minor chords should be learned 
before going on to more complex 
structures. The limit to possible chord 
formations is practically infinite. After 
learning the fourteen major and minor 
chords, there are diminished, augmented, 
ninth, seventh, major seventh, minor 
seventh, seventh augmented fifth, seventh 
diminished fifth, sixth, minor sixth, and 
thirteenths etc ... You can also make up 
chords before or after you have learned 
the known order of chords. Imitating 
pictures at chord diagrams takes a minimal
d
rc
5 <S
'
c)
d
r0
D
NOTICE
TO ALL ORGANIZATIONS 
FUNDED BY STUDENT SENATE 
Please submit your budgets to the Senate 
Finance Committee by January 23, 1980
(If there are any problems meeting this deadline please contact 
Finance Committee Chairperson Mary Ann Lawton as soon as
possible.)
effort. After you have learned several 
chords keep practicing them until they 
become easy to remember. After you’ve 
memorized the major and minor chords, 
add one new chord to your repertoire 
every time you practice. Each day, practice 
switching back and forth among the chords 
you’ve learned. This method is particularly 
effective for people with a good memory 
and an interest in the abstract. Of course 
I prefer my method of learning chords. I 
think that it’s much simpler than Mel Bay’s 
technique.
For the LOW technique you must first 
obtain some sheet music with guitar 
chords. Look for music with diagrams of
the chords above the piano music. If you 
get a song which you are familiar with it 
will be quite easy to learn the song. For 
me, learning the chords in the context of a 
familiar song was extremely useful, because 
it gave me a frame of reference in which to 
place the chords. This made it easier to 
remember the chords than to memorize 
single diagrams. I also found that this 
method was helpful because it forced me 
to switch chords without hesitation, as the 
music progressed. Early compositions of the 
Beatles, Joni Mitchell, and Bob Dylan are 
good, easy songs to begin with. Song books 
of these and a wide variety of other com­
posers can be found in most music stores.

---------------------------------------------------

JANUARY
sMTwTFS12345
6789101112
1341516171819
2021
Senate Meeting 
Wherrett 6:30
America Film Series 
11:30; 12:30 WR22
SDC Meeting 
7:00 Wherrett23
AB Film: "Distant 
Thunder" DH 221024
AB Coffeehouse 
AB Film: "Hair" 
DH 221025
Sr Banquet 7:30pm 
Ski bo
SDC Film: "Pink 
Flamingos" DH 221026
Spirit: Black Films 7pm 
WR27
Final Add Drop 28
TARTAIV
Senate Meeting 
Wherrett 6:3029
J GENERAL STAFF MEETING 
7:00 Wherrett
SDC Meeting BR30
AB Film: 'The Great 
Dictator" DH 2210re
I

---------------------------------------------------

sMTWTF
AB Film: "MGM 
Musicals" BR1
SSDC Film: "Harry & 
Tonto" DH 2210
SARC
Business ™
Con
Skibo
34
Senate Meeting 
Wherrett 6:305
SDC Meeting 
7:00 Wherrett6
AB Film DH 2210 
Brigadoon Kresge Th7
AB Film: "Life of 
Brian" DH 2210 
Brigadoon Kesge Th8
SDC Film: "Failsafe" 
DH 2210
Brigadoon Kresge Th9
AB Film: "Hearts and 
Minds" DH 2210
Brigadoon Kresge Th 10
Brigadoon Kresge Th 11
Senate Meeting 
Wherrett 6:30
Brigadoon Kresge Th 12
Kiltie Band Concert 
8pm BR
Brigadoon Kresge Th13
AB Film: "Gaslight" 
DH 2210
Brigadoon Kresge Th14
Residence Life Party 
AB Film: "Woody 
Allen Night" DH 2210
Brigadoon Kresge Th15
SDC Dance BR 
SDC Film: "Same Time 
Next Year" DH 2210 
Brigadoon Kresge Th16
1718
Senate Meeting 
Wherrett 6:3019
SDC Meeting 
7:00 Wherrett20
AB Film: "Beauty and 
the Beast" DH 221021
Spirit Talent Show BR / 22
AB Coffeehouse23
24
February Holiday25
4
Mid grades due
Mich Congressman: 
John Conyers 8pm BR26
SDC Meeting 
7:00 Wherrett27
AB Film: 'Things to 
Come" DH 221028
Greek Sing
AB Film: "Dracula" 
DH 221029

---------------------------------------------------

MA RCH
S MTWT .F
Greek ! 
AB Co
SDC 
Pythor 
the Fi
S
Sing
ffeehouse
Film: "Monty ¿j. 
i Meets Beyond S 
inge" DH 2210 *
23
Senate Meeting 
Wherrett 6:304
SDC Meeting 
7:00 Wherrett 
Guest Artist: Jamie 
Bennett 7:30pm MM5
AB Film: "L'Aventura" 
DH 22106
AB Film: 'The Inlaws" 
DH 22107
AB Coffeehouse
SDC Film: "East of 
Eden"; Rebel without a 
Cause" DH 22108
910
Senate Meeting 
Wherrett 6:3011
SDC Meeting 
7:00 Wherrett12
AB Film: "Marquise of 
0" DH 221013
Intramural Night
AB Film: 'The Muppet 
Movie" DH 221014
AB Coffeehouse 
SDC Film: "Last 
Tango in Paris" 
DH 221015
1617
Senate Meeting 
Wherrett 6:3018
SDC Meeting 
7:00 Wherrett19
AB Film: "Greed" 
DH 2210202122
T"
CO
Spring Break
CM_
<ß
CM
Senate Meeting 
Wherrett 6:30
Spring Break25
Spring Break 26
Spring Break27
Spring Break 28
Indian Botanical Art 
Hunt Penthouse29

---------------------------------------------------

‘T
'¦ÉÈ ~ ^M
Senate MeetingT WSDC MeetingAB Film: "The^-hmF
AB Film: "Manhattan"
AB Coffeehouse 
SDC Film: "Midnight
Wherrett 6:30 1
7:00 WherrettI 2
Man DH 22103
DH 22104
Cowboy" DH 2210
Residence
Life PartyD
à> ¦< . . . .6
Scotch n Soda Preview 
noon WR7
Senate Meeting 
Wherrett 6:308
SDC Meeting 
7:00 Wherrett9
Fall Registration 
Scotch n Soda 8pm 
AB Film: "Mean 
Streets" DH 221010
Scotch n Soda 8pm BR
AB Film: "Animal 
House" DH 221011
Scotch n Soda 8pm BR
SDC Film: "Get Out 
Your Hankerchiefs" 
DH 221012
K*
% M1314
Senate Meeting 
Wherrett 6:3015
SDC Meeting 
7:00 Wherrett16
Spring Carnival17
Spring Carnival 18
Spring Carnival
SDC Film: "Barbarella" 
DH 221019
v ¦¦2021
Senate Meeting 
Wherrett 6:3022
SDC Meeting 
7:00 Wherrett23
AB Film:"High Noon" 
DH 221024
AB Film: "Love At 
First Bite" DH 221025
AB Coffeehouse
SDC Film: "Paper 
Moon" DH 221026
•-if&
a2728
Senate Meeting 
Wherrett 6:3029
SDC Meeting 
7:00 Wherrett30
MAY
1
Last Day of Classes 
AB Film: "Seven
Brides for Seven 
Brothers" DH 2210
AB Film:"McCabe & 
Mrs. Miller" DH 2210 
3
AB Coffeehouse 
SDC Film: "High Plains 
Drifter" DH 2210
5 6 7 8 9 
Final Examinations 
12
Commencement

---------------------------------------------------

Scotch n' Soda musical features comic-strip-based Kije
Self-made meals beat blues
by Karen Stevens
While the spotlight is stil! on the negative 
aspects of our illustrious food service, I 
want to dedicate this week’s article to beat­
ing the stomach-growling blues. In past 
articles, I have suggested dining out as the 
solution of choice. I realize, 
rimpirr however, that a lack of
• x transportation or money
can be an obstacle to this 
. option. When this is the 
case, my suggestion is dorm or apartment 
cooking. (I must point out that on-campus 
cooking is officially restricted to dorm 
provided kitchens, although this hasn’t 
stopped the time-honored practice of 
dorm-room cooking.)
The major obstacle I foresee in becom­
ing a resident chef is the initial cost. This 
cost will consist of one or more small appli­
ances (crock pot, toaster oven, hamburger 
maker, etc.), cooking untensils (pots/pans, 
pot holders, something to stir or serve 
with, and maybe a few others), plates, sil­
verware, and the like. May I suggest buying 
the small appliances at a wholesale outlet 
such as David Weis. Investment in paper 
products adds convenience, but can be 
more expensive. The cost of an adequate 
toaster oven starts at $34.95 and a crock 
pot can be obtained from $14.95. Either of 
these can be used to produce many low 
cost meals at reasonable prices and you’re 
not tied down for hours preparing them. 
Also you don’t have to be a female home- 
ec wiz to conquer the skills needed to 
create enjoyable dishes. If you are willing 
to commit a little initial effort and are 
convinced life can go on without the bene­
fits of Skibo delicacies—read on.
My preference to the above mentioned 
apparatus is the crock pot. There is little 
you can’t throw in there and not have it 
come out delicious. The secret behind this 
invention is its ability to slow cook—only
real negligence can result in a ruined meal. 
The key to mouthwatering dishes is very 
simple. All it takes is concocting a mixture 
of all your favorite edibles and letting 
nature (or rather modem technology) take 
its course. I guess in reality I’m exaggerat­
ing, but it honestly takes little more 
effort than I’ve described. The best way to 
prove this to you is with examples:
1) By combining fresh carrots, peas, 
onions, potatoes (all cut into small pieces), 
stew meat (or cheaper meat cut into bite- 
size pieces), a can of Campbell’s Onion 
Soup, a few beef bouillon cubes (optional), 
and a cup of water you get a very nutri­
tious, tasty meal. If this is put together in 
the morning on “low” then by mealtime— 
“dinner is served.” Some bread and a salad 
round out the meal.
2) Weiners and beans (or sauerkraut) is 
a simple combination that can be ready at 
lunch. Combine buns and applesauce and 
you’re set.
3) Canned chicken, green beans, carrots, 
mushrooms, and Campbell’s cream of 
chicken soup provides another meal choice.
4) Soup is a great winter warm-me-up 
that can be made with little difficulty. Pea, 
bean, vegetable, cheese, potato, and other 
soups are also easily made by following 
some simple instructions.
These suggestions and others can be 
found in brochures and books put out by 
the makers of this appliance and other 
authors. They can be obtained for reason­
able prices.
If your taste bud preference lies in the 
baked and broiled foods, than perhaps a 
toaster oven is more appropriate for your 
needs. However, this system takes more 
skill then that of a crock pot—burnt items 
could become more prevalent. I don’t want 
to discourage this option though. It is 
great for our student needs, yet honestly 
continued on page 16
Living Proof released on Fantasy records.
Living Proof qualifies disco
by Joan Livitski
The disco fever has been around for 
quite a while now, but it is far from dying 
out. In fact, Sylvester gives Living Proof 
that the sound is hotter than ever and for­
ever incorporating new techniques and 
trends that keep at least his music fresh 
and with new appeal. It is innovators like 
Sylvester who make the disco sound more 
than a repetitive percussion beat.
Living Proof, Sylvester’s newest album, 
shows his range as a musical artist. Primari­
ly the sound is disco in its most dynamic 
sense, but Sylvester also displays his con­
trol of r & b, punk, pop, gospel, and rock- 
‘n’ roll. Three sides of the album were re­
corded with the San Francisco Symphony 
complementing Sylvester’s regular eight 
piece band with their full horn section.
Sylvester is one of the few artists who 
can produce new renditions of old classics 
and still do them justice. He sings the Bea- 
tle’s “Blackbird” with a gospel touch and 
handles a ballad medley of Barry Manilow’s 
“Could It Be Magic” and Leon Russell’s 
“A Song For You” in a very soul-render­
ing way.
It is the fourth side of Living Proof 
that gives that get-up-and-dance music that 
has put him in the top ranks of the disco
performers. His two new songs, “Can’t 
Stop Dancing” and “In My Fantasy (I 
Want You, I Need You)” as well as his 
chart busters “Dance (Disco Heat)” and 
“You Make Me Feel (Mighty Real)” are 
songs that are hard to just sit and listen to. 
They are song» with feeling and movement 
on top of a good beat which is the real dis­
tinction between good and bad disco mu­
sic.
Previously, Sylvester had placed a lot of 
emphasis on outrageous costumes and sets. 
His campy image kept him at a distance 
from the uptight masses, especially when 
he appeared in full drag. Lately, though, he 
has found that “I’m just as comfortable 
and feel just as fabulous in a pair of jeans 
and a T-shirt as I do in jewels and feathers 
or paint.” His toned-down appearance has 
made him feel that “Now, I can be appre­
ciated for the simple fact that I’m there, 
rather than for what I have on.”
Even though Sylvester is now appealing 
to a broader audience, he has not com­
promised any of his uniqueness as a person 
or as a performer. His casual classiness is 
still the embodiment of what disco is and 
should be, and his latest album is Living 
Proof.
Chamber Players give fine performance
by Timothy LeVan
The Carnegie-Mellon Chamber Players 
continued their pattern of fine musical of­
ferings last Monday evening with a concert 
of music by Schubert, Loeffler, and Weber.
Carole Morgan, flute, and Linda Rath- 
bun-Walker, piano, opened the program 
with Schubert’s. Introduction and Varia­
tions, Op. 160, for flute and piano.
Ms. Rathbun-Walker played with utmost 
musicality and sensitivity to ensemble play-
performed chamber music with many ar­
tists from some of the leading symphonies 
of the United States.
Ms. Morgan, however, gave a somewhat 
less inspired performance. Although tech­
nically adequate, her playing seemed to 
lack the certain spontaneity of melodic line 
associated with Schubert.
The program continued with Deux Rap- 
sodies, pour Houtbois, Alto et Piano (Two 
Rhapsodies, for oboe, viola, and piano) by
Ch. M. Loeffler. Thomas Fay, oboe, gave 
a well-controlled and musical performance, 
adding much to the entire ensemble sound.
Bruce Plumb, viola, performed with 
continued musical high standards. Mr. 
Plumb has been performing in a number of 
concerts in this series, each time with in­
creased vitality.
Again, Ms. Rathbun-Walker showed her 
prowess in accompanying by her poignant 
interpretation of the score.
The Weber Trio in G minor, Op. 63, for 
flute, cello and piano closed the program. 
A mildly irritating discord existed between 
the flute and cello. Ms. Morgan’s playing 
collided with Anne Martindale William’s 
cello, with her almost overdone expression 
and exhibition of pure musicality.
The next concert in this series will be 
February 18 at 8 PM in Alumni Concert 
Hall, College of Fine Arts. The Program 
will be the music of R. Schuman.
by Melody Mazzie
Following a tradition that goes back as 
far as 1938, the Scotch n’ Soda Board will 
once again present an original spring 
musical. This year’s musical is entitled 
Kije, (pronounced Key-jee), and was 
written by GSIA student Scott McGregor. 
Kije is a comedy based on the “Wizard of 
Id” comic strip and follows the develop­
ment of the imaginary hero Kije. Having 
read the script, which is on reserve at Hunt 
Library, this reviewer feels that it should 
make for quite an enjoyable production.
McGregor began work on the script two 
and a half years ago as a senior undergra­
duate student. Until recently the piece sat 
idle, though McGregor claims that it 
“fermented over time.” One of his primary 
concerns when writing has always been to 
make his scripts “producible” in terms of 
technology and character portrayal. He 
submitted his original idea for the musical 
to the Scotch n’ Soda Board last spring and 
has found them “very supportive of artists.”
Arthur Benjamin, a freshman math 
major, has written the songs for Kije. 
Benjamin “has always been partial to
comedies’” and hit it off well with 
McGregor when he learned that Kije was 
a light-hearted musical that had no heavy 
social implications. This is Benjamin’s 
first attempt at writing for a musical. His 
usual interest lies in writing parodies on 
lyrics and poems.
McGregor and Benjamin have worked so 
well together as collaborators for the 
musical that they plan to take it to the 
Community Theatre if well received, and, 
looking ahead optimistically, to Broadway.
McGregor and Benjamin began work­
ing steadily on the script in October. The 
first complete script was finished at the 
beginning of December. It was about this 
time, too, that Matthew Sweigart, a senior 
in Creative Writing, was elected director by 
the Scotch n’ Soda Board. The Board, 
headed by Physics sophomore Tom Wood, 
was also responsible for selecting the other 
members of the production staff.
A cast of about 40 are needed for the 
musical, including five female leads, eight 
male leads, and a 25 member chorus. 
Auditions will be held on Sunday, January 
27 at 1:00 PM. Auditionees should report
to the Ballroom equipped with a song, 
dressed comfortably, and prepared to read. 
Recalls will be held the same afternoon. 
The cast list will be out that Monday, and 
the first rehearsal will be held on Wednes­
day, January 30.
The Scotch n’ Soda Board is also looking 
for crews to handle the set, lighting, 
running, costumes, construction, and make­
up. Crew calls will be held Saturday, 
February 2 at 1 PM in Skibo, Room 13.
Show dates are Thursday-Saturday, 
April 10-12 and 17-19, with a preview on 
April 7. According to Director Sweigart, 
“all [of the production staff] are extreme­
ly optimistic about the prospects for 
success.” Success, of course, depends on a 
spirited cast and crew. Anyone interested 
in taking part should show up at the above 
mentioned meetings. For further infor­
mation contact the Scotch n’ Soda office

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16—TARTAN-January 22, 1980
Forbes Gallery displays variety of works
by Anne Patterson
This is the first in a series of articles 
about the student art shows at the Forbes 
Street Gallery. The gallery is located on 
the comer of Forbes Ave. and Margaret 
Morrison St.
Well, if you’ve never been there, or if 
you’ve walked by it but have never ven­
tured past those big black gallery doors, 
you’re in for a spectacular experience when 
you go to see this week’s show! Leeann 
Conley, Francis Roman, and Kathy Costel­
lo are presenting their wood, ceramic, and 
glass pieces.
Leeann works in ceramics and wood.
itive and powerful. (Images of African tri­
bal dance relics come to mind.) Her ceram­
ic pieces are equally fascinating. The two 
foot high glazed and thin clay mounds with 
wood and painted protrusions give a sense 
of animation, as though many arms and 
legs are a part of this ancient looking god 
figure. Leeann’s work conjures wild images 
for me, wild and intriguing.
Francis Roman is showing three dimen­
sional paintings composed of plywood, 
copper, and acrylic paint, watercolors 
taken from her 3-D paintings, and some 
small collages. She has also created castle­
like ceramic constructions. These pieces
quality to them. They are painted in differ­
ent colors-blacks, blues, yellows, and send 
your eyes roaming in and around the nega­
tive and positive spaces.
Kathy Costello works particularly in 
glass and clay. Her glass vessels present us 
with the notion of “time and growth.” The 
artist explores growth patterns in a unique 
and beautiful way. For those of you who 
were lucky enough to catch her show in 
the Ellis Gallery (3rd floor, Fine Arts) in 
November, you will have caught just a 
glimpse of what’s in store for this week. 
Her Ellis show was an “environmental” 
piece. Kathy created a peaceful land in th,e
shaped glass piece lay quietly on the sand 
covered floor while black jellyfish-shaped 
glass rested with smaller gems in their rock 
garden and on the open sand. The total ef­
fect was for some a desert, for others the 
seashore, and for all a still, meditative and 
magical landscape.
These three women will have their work 
on display all week. Stop by the Forbes 
Street Gallery and check this show out. 
Conley, Roman, and Costello-don’t miss 
it!
Gallery hours are:
Tuesday thru Sunday 12:30-4:30 and 
Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday even-
Her painted wood structures are very prim- have an architectural and monumental one room gallery. Her long, black, rod- ings from 7:00-9:00.Tantrum throws together a mediocre show
by Alan Spero
For the past year and a half or so, the 
Decade Club in Oakland, in cooperation 
with Danny Kresky Enterprises, has 
brought to their small stage and intimate 
surroundings some of the most exciting 
new bands of today, such as the Police, 
the Fabulous Poodles, Joe Jackson, Pat 
Benatar, and the Ramones. On Thursday 
night, January 10, Tantrum, a Chicago- 
based, power-pop outfit took the stage at 
the Decade in order to help promote their 
recently released debut album, Rather Be 
Rockin’. Unfortunately, this new band 
did not live up to the expectant excitement 
of the previously mentioned groups.
Tantrum is a septet composed of three
female lead vocalists, a guitarist, bassist, 
keyboardist, and drummer. Barb Eber, a 
blonde, Sandy Caulfield, a redhead, and 
Pam Bradley, a brunette, offered little 
variation from the standard female vocal­
izations of Heart, except the girls in Tan­
trum were not as good as the Wilson sis­
ters, and they looked older and more un­
comfortable in their flashy dress and 
heavy make-up. A monotonous rhythm 
section was laid down by drummer Vern 
Wennerstrom and bassist Bill Syniar, and 
some conventional keyboard work was 
thrown in by Phil Balsano. Guitarist Ray 
Sapko proved slick, yet boring; much of 
his style originating from the New England,
Foreigner, and Toto School of Muffled
Heavy-Handedness.
The group played mostly cuts from 
their debut album, including “Take A 
Look,” “Don’t Turn Me Off,” and the 
single, “How Long.” The only songs from 
the album that got any kind of response 
were the title track and “Search for a 
Reason.” Tantrum also did several cuts 
which are not on the album, but the only 
one that sticks in my mind was “Sexy 
Lady,” and that’s because Pam Bradley, 
who looks somewhat like a burly Amazon 
stuffed into tight, black stretch pants, 
seemed to be wretching while she screamed 
out the words.
The basic problem with Tantrum is that
The SCHOOL OF URBAN and PUBLIC AFFAIRS at 
CARNEGIE-MELLON UNIVERSITY offers a two 
year program designed to prepare future leaders for professional service in the expanding area of 
management of public policy.
Career opportunities in this critical area are 
expanding faster than in most other fields. They offer 
great challanges for innovative approaches to public 
sector management using modern quantitative 
methods. SUPA's problem-solving orientation offers 
diverse careers to aspiring public managers.
*SUPA has had a 100% PLACEMENT RECORD 
since its first graduating class in 1972.
Rosanne Salerno
School of Urban & Public Affairs 
Admissions Office Carnegie-Mellon University 
Margaret Morrison Bldg., Room 110 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
FOR MORE INFORMATION, PLEASE FILL OUT AND RETURN THE FOLLOWNlFccjuPONT
NAME.
ADDRESS
CITY______STATE.ZIP
UNIVERSITY/COLLEGE. 
MAJOR_____________________DEGREE.
DATE OF GRADUATION. 
SOCIAL SECURITY NO.
O.P.A.
they’re a thoroughly mediocre band who 
rework standard rock cliches without im­
proving them or even making them inter­
esting. And since the opening band of local 
yokels, Eddie and the Otters, received 
twice as much response from the crowd as 
Tantrum, I guess that point was pretty well 
proven.
Connoisseur
continued from page 15
requires me to make you aware of these 
difficulties. Meal possibilities here include:
1) broiled fish, steaks, and vegetables (a 
favorite of mine is tomato halves buttered 
and sprinkled with parmesan cheese).
2) Baked items can encompass casse­
roles. potatoes, chicken, pork chops, and 
others.
3) Bread and bagels can be toasted for a 
snack or breakfast.
Again numerous combinations are 
possible and literature is available for your 
use.
The last appliance I’d like to share with 
you is an iron. Quick lunches or late night 
snacks can be created by plugging in the 
old iron.
1) Butter two pieces of bread on one 
side; place one piece butter-side down on 
a piece of aluminum foil; top with cheese 
(American, Swiss, etc). Add the other 
slice of bread, butter side up; fold over 
the foil to cover this piece; place hot iron 
on one side for a few minutes, then flip. 
Surprise! This simple operation provideds 
an appetizing pick-merup....
2) Tuna or chicken can be added for 
extra zest and variety.
Possibilities and options are endless 
(I’ve cited so few), but the most impor­
tant thing to keep in mind is that we don’t 
have to be subjected to cold, unappealing 
meals it we are willing to assert some ef­
fort.
If you’d like some of my favorite reci­
pes or have questions, please feel free to 
direct them to “Campus Connoisseur” 
c/o TARTAN, Skibo 52. I’ll be glad to 
help.Auditions!
WILLIAMSBURG, VA.-Talent scouts 
from the Old Country—Busch Gardens in 
Williamsburg, Va.-will be at the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse on Wednesday, January 30 from 
1:00 PM to 5:00 PM to audition talented 
performers and technicians for the 1980 
season.
Auditions will be in the Theatre Down­
stairs on 222 Craft Avenue.
A total of 16 colleges and universities 
are being visited by Busch Gardens talent 
search team, which will select about 200 
performers and technicians for the 1980 
spring and summer seasons. Rehearsals for 
the cast of spring productions begin in 
March, with summer shows going into re­
hearsal in early June.

---------------------------------------------------

January 22, 1980—TARTAN— Page 17
PPT's Loot combines comedy with commentary
by Melody Mazzie
Imagine a cross between Upstairs Down­
stairs and Monty Python, and you have the 
essence of Joe Orton’s Loot.
'Loot opened January 2 at the Pitts­
burgh Public Theatre. Its rather unintricate 
plot deals with a comedic Sherlock Holmes 
situation. The strength qf the play lies in 
the hilarious actions and personalities of 
the characters.
Robert Burr is quite fitting as the 
wealthy widower McLeavy whose tendency 
to be a moral, upright citizen works to his 
eventual disadvantage. Brenda Curtis plays 
the deceased Mrs. McLeavy’s nurse, Fay
whose prime concern is adding McLeavy to 
her list of husbands. Curtis has an air of 
speech that would allow her to play Queen 
Elizabeth with no difficulty, yet she han­
dles her comedic role with alacrity. Hal, 
McLeavy’s wayward son, is played by John 
Seidman. Both he and Ivar Brogger,as side­
kick Dennis, are hysterical in their roles as 
blundering thieves. Somewhat akin to Peter 
Seller’s Clousseau is Loot's Detective 
Truscott, played by John Carpenter. 
Carpenter’s interrogations are made while 
under his guise of being an employee for 
the Metropolitan Water Board. He hasn’t a 
line in the play that is not either outright
funny or subtley so.
Loot is not a suspenseful mystery in 
the “Who Dunnit” style. It is actually a 
light-hearted commentary on the many 
faces of morality. Hal, for example, can 
steal thousands of dollars, but his “up­
bringing” won’t allow him to lie. Fay has 
no qualms about committing murder, but 
she does not believe in euthanasia. Play­
wright Orton throws out several state­
ments about the inconsistencies of reli­
gion— Hal doesn’t mind dumping his 
mother’s corpse into the river, but he 
won’t undress the cadaver because he’s 
Catholic; Fay has had seven husbands, all
of which she has murdered, but she won’t 
marry Dennis because he’s Protestant.
The costuming of Loot is simple. The 
only one who changes dress during the 
play is Fay. The set design, on the other 
hand, is not so simple. The entire play 
takes place in one room of the McLeavy 
house. Set designer Neil Peter Jampolis has 
ingeniously created several devices which 
rise and lower from the stage to facilitate 
the needs of the actors.
Loot is a play that makes some serious 
implications, but, due to its humor, they 
are made in an easily digestible way. Loot 
will continue to run through February 10.
ADM brings back Broadway
by Melodie Mazzie
There was a time when the choreography 
of Broadway musicals died when the pro­
duction ceased to exist. Times have 
changed, however, and thanks to the skill 
and dedication of The American Dance 
Machine, these choreographed pieces have 
a chance of being preserved.
The American Dance Machine is made 
up of twenty young dancers whose enthu­
siasm and expertise make for an especially 
entertaining performance.
The company’s purpose as a non-profit 
corporation is “to reconstruct, preserve, 
instruct, and perform in continuing reper­
tory the important choreography of 
twentieth century American musical 
theatre.” Lee Theodore formed the com­
pany in 1975. Jts recent appearance at the 
Pittsburgh Playhouse included the recon­
structed choreographies of such musicals as 
Carousel, Cabaret, Shenandoah, The Un- 
sinkable Molly Brown, and Brigadoon.
The selections performed varied greatly, 
from Carousel's joyous “June is Bustin’ 
Out All Over” to the solemn “Funeral 
Dance” of Brigadoon. A snappy
“Charleston” duo from The Boyfriend 
contrasted the low-keyed duo of “Floyd’s 
Guitar Blues.” Departing from the standard 
routines, the company amazed the 
audience with Michael Kidd’s “Whip 
Dance” and humored them with a finale 
of Danny Daniel’s “Clog Dance.”
Though all of the performances were 
well executed, perhaps those of Janet 
Eilber, Don Johanson, and Helena Andreko 
are deserving of particular mention. Eilber 
opened the show with a brief but vivacious 
solo of “Mamie is Mimi” from Gentleman 
Prefer Blondes. Johanson and Andreko 
formed a spicy team for both the “Charles­
ton” and “Rich Kid’s Rag.”
The costuming of The American Dance 
Machine was well suited to the numbers. 
The scanty black outfits in “The Telephone 
Dance” were as effective for their piece as 
were the childish sailor suits in “Rich Kid’s 
Rag.”
The American Dance Machine is to be 
praised for their first-rate talent and a top- 
notch show. Upcoming to the Playhouse 
are the Don Redlich Dance Company and 
the Kathryn Posin Dance Company.
ORDER YOUR CMU OR CIT RING
TUESDAY 
JANUARY 22
NOW WITH ALL 
COLORS OF 
BIRTHSTONES! !
THE ORIGINAL 
I CMU RING
Customize your ring to your personality Choose from the many Dieges & Clust options available gleaming precious metals sparkling stones, exciting colors bold designs.
fjO/rt/OJ <£,’ ByBthB
WEDNESDAY 
JANUARY 23
EXCALIBUR 
SALE PRICE
LADIES-$72 
GENTS - $77
A SYMBOL OF 
ACHIEVEMENT!
A DIEGES & CLUST REPRESENTATIVE WILL BE IN THE 
BOOKSTORE TO SHOW SAMPLES AND HELP YOU SELECT 
| YOUR RING ON TUESDAY & WEDNESDAY 10 a.m. - 4 p.m. |
| $15 DEPOSIT
illlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllUIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIItllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllHIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIll
Great Moments in the history of hair
ONE MILLION B.C. . .Blech, a 
Stone Age plumber, discovers a 
clump of matted fibers clogging a 
drain on a routine aqueduct re 
pair job. He calls the substance 
hair
"But we always thought this 
stuff was feathers", insists Kneg, 
his helper.
"Dummy", counters Blech. "If 
this was feathers, we'd be able to
fly like those pteradactyls".
With the discovery of hair, pluck­
ing salons disappear. Philoso­
phers have something to split in 
their search for Truth.
Now you can stop searching for 
the truth about your hair. Get a 
haircut you can fly with. No 
appointments required. For gals 
and guys.
¦s«rccmions.
HAIRCUTS
(Wash-Cut-Blow)
II00
Mon. Tues. Wed. -10-7 
Thurs. Frl. 10-9 
Sat. 9-4
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
COLORING
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office 
687-3500
UNISEX HAIR SALON
PERMANENTS
25°o
NO
APPOINTMENTS
iTUTORS
Wanted 
for Free Academic Student 
Tutoring Program (F.A.S.T.)
I ALL SUBJECTS I
Meeting for prospective tutors:
Wed. Jan 23 at 4:30 p.m. 
or
Thurs. Jan 24 at 7:00 p.m.
For more information call the 
Peer Help Center (578-2904)

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18—TARTAN—January 22, 1980
Assaults up, burglaries down reports Castelli
by Ed Slosky
The CMU campus community was rape- 
free in 1979. This is the official report of 
the 1980 campus crime statistics released 
earlier this month.
According to Lieuienant Armand 
Castelli, compiler of the report, no rapes 
have occured in the past year. This, he ex­
plained, is due to the fact that rape is 
defined as the unlawful carnal knowledge 
of a woman by a man without her consent, 
chiefly by force. He noted that the recent 
Doherty Hall basement incident was a case 
of indecent exposure and simple assault. 
Since the victim freed herself before any 
physical action on the part of the assailant 
was taken, under state codes the attack 
could not be classified as attempted rape.
A noticeable increase in simple assaults 
occurred in 1979; 50 assaults are noted for 
1979 compared to only 19 for 1978. 
Castelli stated that a portion of this in­
crease is due to the substantial harassment 
by phone. Under the state penal code, 
repetitive harassment by phone (frequent 
obscene phone calls) is technically clas­
sified as simple assault. The increase in 
obscene phone calls has risen drastically 
since the installment of the Centrex phone 
system. The simple assault column also 
includes “near rapes” such as the recent 
incident in Doherty Hall.
Burglaries and thefts in the campus 
community declined in 1979 as compared 
to the previous two years. Castelli 
remarked that most of the thefts reported 
were due to the carelessness of the parties 
involved, e.g. unlocked doors, money left 
visible on a desk, etc. If security finds an 
unlocked door, they will secure it, and 
notify the people involved of the situation. 
It is believed that a majority of the thefts 
are intracampus affairs. Students will in­
definitely “borrow” a chair from an office
for their own personal use, etc. When asked 
why only four items were recovered out of 
203 reported theft incidents, Castelli re­
plied, “The investigator on the force 
spends only about 30% of her time on 
following such incidents. The other 70% of 
her time is spent doing regular police work, 
since she is needed in other departmental 
functions.”
The escort service has found that the 
campus is increasingly taking advantage of 
its services. The service provided over 6000 
escorts in 1979, with 2500 in the months 
of November and December alone. Al­
though there are numerous complaints of 
long waits for service, Castelli said the 
department is doing its best to keep up 
with demands.
Fires have increased over 50% during 
the past two years. When asked if this was 
due to the deterioration of the physical 
plant, Castelli replied that most of the re­
ported fires are set, with the trash dump­
sters near the fraternities being frequent 
targets.
The department currently consists of 16 
police officers and two security monitors. 
One monitor is responsible for the Gym, 
the other is the recently hired Doherty 
Hall basement monitor. The Doherty Hall 
monitor is on duty weeknights from 4:30 
PM to 12:30 AM. Effective immediatley, 
Doherty Hall basements B, C, and D will 
be locked at midnight. Weekend hours are 
not yet known, and no further action will 
be taken until art students opinions re­
garding weekend usage are heard. A call to 
Dr. Winsand, Art department chairman, 
confirmed these security measures. 
Winsand said he agrees completely with the 
new monitor hiring and the hours of lab 
operation.
The security department is also trying 
to make its patrols more effective. During
night shift, from 11:30 PM to 7:30 AM, 
individual patrolmen on foot are respon­
sible for the Hill dorms, central, north, and 
south campus. With the addition of the 
security monitors, security is hoping to 
improve its service to the campus com­
munity. The duties of these monitors 
replace what used to be performed by the 
security officers themselves.
Castelli mentioned that CMU is bor­
dered on all sides by high crime rate areas. 
Oakland has the highest overall crime rate 
in the city, Shadyside-Squirrel Hill has the 
highest rape rate in the area, in addition to 
the perils of Schenley Park at night. When 
asked if more manpower would improve 
security services, Castelli replied, “Defin­
itely, more visible patrolmen are always a 
deterrent to crime. However, within
budgetary constraints, we are doing the 
best with what we have.”
Dr. Richard Van Horn, Vice-President 
for Management, who is responsible for 
campus security replied to Castelli’s state­
ment. Van Horn told the TARTAN, “The 
size of the security force has been con­
sistent with the size of campus require­
ments .... We have added additional man­
power to the security force in recent years. 
Any further increases in staff would not 
greatly enhance security. Further increases 
in staff is not contemplated at this time.” 
Castelli urges anyone who is receiving 
obscene phone calls to notify Security 
immediately. An automatic tracer can be 
put on your phone, without “tapping in” 
on your private conversation. Contact 
Security for further information.SARC to host seminar
by Andre Jenkins
At CMU, many students know little 
more about the Student Alumni Relations 
Council (SARC) than what the abbrevia­
tion may indicate.
SARC consists of various committees 
with a common goal — To increase the stu­
dents awareness of 1) his/her fellow stu­
dents (for example—freshman weekend & 
senior Banquet) within the CMU Commu­
nity and 2) CMU alumni.
JP. Morgan once said that in order to 
be successful, one must be in the company 
of the successful. There are many CMU 
alumni who are distinguished and rank 
highly in their respective fields. Some are 
among our own faculty, while many occu­
py leadership positions in industry, research, 
and fhe fine arts. Each year, SARC attempts 
to bring students, alumni and faculty to­
gether via lectures, seminars and conferen-
ces presented by the faculty and alumni 
themselves.
This year, SARC has arranged to bring 
to campus a group of individuals from the 
Westinghouse Corporation who represent 
various disciplines within the corporate 
framework.
Many of these speakers are CMU alum­
ni and a brief survey of the 12 topics to be 
discussed is given below. A time schedule 
of events is also given, and there will be a 
reception and exhibit in the Highlander 
Room (Skibo) where the speakers, other 
alumni and students can converse infor­
mally with refreshments provided. The title 
of this years conference is: “Focus on a 
New Decade: The Corporate Perspective”. 
The date is Saturday, February 2, 1980. 
There are programs spread about the cam­
pus so pick one up and make ypur reserva­
tion.
git'e«“s
ooo«.
* rtO*‘
0e.'': ou» tb*find °
cot*\o> A'6?1*
1$
Engineers at Xerox 
work miracles.
Our engineers convert 
complicated tasks into simple 
ones. With just the push of 
a button, Xerox equipment 
works wonders. Dependably.
Our engineers’ reward? Success. 
And Xerox technology is built 
on success stories.
Xerox is dedicated to new ideas. 
And to our engineers who are 
developing them. While our 
competition cut their 
R&D budgets, we increased 
ours. (By 15%). Engineers at 
Xerox work with almost $1 
million a day converting the tech­
nology of the future into reality. 
Our challenge of the 80’s. Not 
everyone is ready for it. Xerox 
it. And we’re looking for 
engineers who want to be
part of it. Your future can 
get off to a great start in our 
reprographics technology. 
But did you know that
Xerox is also a leader in processor 
memory discs and drives, 
electronic typing and printing and 
telecommunications? 
Xerox is a total information center. 
Give your ideas the attention they 
deserve. Check with your college 
placement office for campus inter­
view dates and schedules. Then 
talk to our campus representatives.
XEROX
Xerox is an affirmative 
action employer (malt female)
CAREERS THAT CAN’T BE DUPLICATED

---------------------------------------------------

Case hands Tartans first conference loss, 62-61
Women suffer winless week
by Denny Postufka
The Tartan hoopsters came away with 
a split last week in PAC-8 play by breezing 
past Thiel 82-58 last Wednesday and drop­
ping a heartbreaker at Case Western Re­
serve on Saturday by a score of 62-61.
With six Tartans scoring in double 
figures, CMU posted its third conference 
victory in as many games against winless 
Thiel. All twelve players saw action for 
CMU. The Tartans built up a big lead in 
the first half when the Tomcats time 
after time threw up 25 footers that were 
off the mark. The halftime score saw 
CMU on top, 40-23.
The Tomcats were unable to regroup 
in the second half as the Tartans upped 
their lead to as many as 28. Larry Huf- 
nagel led the way with 15 points fol­
lowed closely by Greg Novak with 14. 
Buddy Hobart popped 11, and Mariano 
DeFilippo, Joe Bejechak, and John Lewis
by Skip Thrope
The Carnegie Mellon women’s basket­
ball team again dropped 2 consecutive 
games this week. On Wednesday night, the 
Tartans were defeated.by an aggressive, 
well coached Thiel squad by the score of 
£ 65-38. The Tomcats simply out-rebounded 
° the ailing Tartans. Poor passing and cum- 
t bersome turnovers plagued the Tartans 
from the tipoff. 
o On Saturday, CMU lost in overtime to 
° Seton Hill 55-53. At the end of regulation 
a time, the score was tied at 4646 with
Dave Hofmeister sets for a jump shot inside the key as Mariano DeFilippo (no. 10) and Thiel defen­
der Tim O'Brien (no. 25) look on. Hofmeister finished with eight points and led in rebounds with 
twelve. The Tartans face the top two teams in the PAC this week and hope to make their move to 
the top with big wins.
CMU’s big offensive weapon, Kassie 
Segmiller, on the bench with 5 fouls. In 
this game the Tartans turned in their best 
performances of the dismal season. They 
epitomized the concept of team play and 
minimized their number of turnovers.The 
transition game and defense showed 
marked improvement, although the team's 
record to date is 0-6. CMU tips off this
week against Chatham on Saturday at 
noon. This is the preliminary to the men’s 
basketball game against Allegheny.
Larry Hufnagel (no. 32) and Joe Belechak (no. 14) fight for a rebound.
CMU FG
Hobart 3
Hufnagel 6
Hofmeister 4
DeFilippo 1
Donahoe 1
Belechak 5
Lewis 2
TOTALS 22
chipped in with 10 apiece. Dave Hofrneis- 
ter pulled down 12 rebounds for CMU and 
finished as the leader in the category.
Freshman Todd Leach fired up a shot 
at the buzzer that went around the rim 
before falling through to lift Case over the 
Tartans 62-61. The Tartans fell to 3-1 
in the conference and 7-5 overall.
The Tartans, who were ahead 33-32 
at the half, were unable to pull away in 
the second half. Larry Hufnagel once again 
led CMU with 23 points and 10 rebounds.
The Tartans have their work cut out for 
£ them this week as they travel to Bethany 
o tomorrow night to face the Bisons who 
t are tied for first with a 4-0 PAC-8 mark. 
¦J CMU stays home on Saturday to face PAC 
co-leader Allegheny, last year’s conference 
o champs, who is also tied for first with a 4-0 
a conference record and an 11-1 overall 
record.
Two Game Statistics
FT-APTSTHIELFGFT-APTS
1-111Benedetto20-04
5-615Scarpitti30-06
0-08O’Brien52-612
0-010Bokisao'2-22
0-02Bailey60-012
0-110Thompson30-06
0-010Curran33-39
2-214McDowell1.1-23
0-12Cherry10-02
8-1182Maker* 10-02
TOTALS258-1358
FT-APTSCASEFu1- r*APIS
2-28Tsipis30-06
11-1323Pleska60-112
2-310Kolk22-36
0-02Jackson42-210
0-02Dean40-08
2-212Cherry40-08
0-14Leach30-06
17-2161Griffin20-04
Hewitt02-22
TOTALS286-862
Gators, bisons undefeated
CMU
Hobart
Hufnagel
Hofmeister
DeFilippo
Donahoe
Belechak
Lewis
Novak
Clancy
TOTALS
Allegheny, Carnegie-Mellon and Beth­
any -i the three top-ranked teams at 
the conclusion of the 1978-79 Presidents 
Athletic Conference basketball race have 
picked up right where they left oft to start 
the new PAC - 8 campaign.
The defending-champion Gators, under 
first-year mentor John Reynders, and the 
West Virginia-based Bisons sport perfect 
4-0 league logs after two weeks of play. 
Both CMU and Case Western Reserve are 
one game off the pace at 3-1.
Not surprisingly, after wins over W & J 
(82 - 67) and CWRU (87 - 65), Allegheny
is the loop’s top-rated scoring outfit, while 
the Tartans of CMU and the Bisons of 
Bethany are dead locked for the role as the 
circuit's stingiest defensive clubs.
Individually, the W & J duo of Dave 
Damico and Mike Pratt are one-two in the 
scoring derby, while Bethany veteran 
Kendal Hayes and Eric Lindberg of Alle­
gheny — a pair of returning All-PAC-8 selec­
tions - are one-two in rebounding.
In addition to his runner-up berth in re­
bounding, Lindberg is ranked number one 
in field goal percentage, while CMU's 
Mariano DeFilippo paces all in assists Although winless, the women's basketball team continues to improve.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20—TARTAN—January 22, 1980
Fencers boast experience Icemen fall to Gators, 4-3
The CMU fencing team enjoyed a suc­
cessful campaign under Head Coach Jane 
Fisk last year, with the women’s team 
posting a 10-4 record and the men finish­
ing 10-2.
This season, Senior Cathy Stadler, a 
third-year performer and team captain, 
returns to anchor the women’s foil squad. 
Expected to join her in the starting trio 
are Freshman Mary Jo McMahon (Roger 
Luplane High School, Fairfeld, CT.) and 
Sophomore Kim Ames.
The men’s first team in foil competition 
consists of Juniors Kris Scigliano (Central 
Catholic High School) and Jim Marshall 
(Churchill Area High School), along with 
Sophomore Kevin Dowling (Roger Lupalne
High School, Fairfield, CT.). In epee, 
Junior Jay Michaels (Peabody High 
School), a strong competitor who can also 
fence foil and sabre, Senior Steve Hoch- 
berger (York High School, York, Pa.) and 
Freshman Mike Cramer (Susquehanna 
Valley High School, Binghamton, NY), 
should fill the first team slots.
Senior co-captains Brian Pierson (Par­
kersburg Catholic High School, Parkers­
burg, W.Va.) and Avram Scheiner (McKees­
port High School, McKeesport, Pa.) along 
with classmate Bill Schmidt (Kiski Area 
High School, Export, Pa.) will represent 
CMU in the sabre competition.
The Tartans host Penn State University- 
Fayette, January 31 at 6 PM.
Appropriate Technology:
by Damon Burke
CMU’s hockey team commenced its win­
ter season aggressively against Allegheny 
College. Jeff Reh, Matt Maddalene and 
Dave Olisar started for the CMU line up; 
Mark Licata, Don Paxton, and Mike Panno, 
for the second line. During the first 14 
minutes, the game was physically well 
played. CMU backed and fore checked very 
well, and each line worked together. It was 
not until there were four seconds left in 
the first quarter that CMU finally scored. 
Jeff Reh, on a break, sprinted past the 
offensive blue line, with Dave Olisar 
trailing. Being forced behind the goal line, 
Jeff skated around and slid the puck be­
tween the goalie’s pads.
In the second period, Allegheny came 
fighting back more aggresively. However, 
CMU checked them in place. Eight minutes 
into the period, Jeff Reh came up with
another goal, assisted by Matt Maddalene. 
Pressing Allegheny further, Mike Panno 
along with Mark Licatta and John Paxton 
worked toghether in getting CMU’s third 
goal.
After two fatal pentalties in the third 
period, Allegheny took advantage of the 
situation by barraging the Tartan goal. 
With two players down, twenty shots were 
taken on CMU goalie, Dave Tosar, who 
stopped all but four of them. Time ran out 
before the Tartans could mount any offen­
sive, and CMU saw Allegheny leave the ice 
the victors, 4 - 3.
The score is not surprising when the 
number of shots on goal is considered. 
CMU could manage only 16 while Allegheny 
shot 36. Jeff Reh turned in an outstanding 
performance, scoring two goals.
The Tartans face the skaters of Penn 
.State today at Lake view Arena.
PAC Player of the Week
Its Meaning for the 1980's"
Dr. Langdon Winner, Professor of Political Science and 
Technology at MIT, will discuss how technology struc­
tures our lives and choices and the importance of ap­
propriate technology from both a social and economic 
standpoint.
GSIA Auditorium 
Thursday, January 24, 1980 
7:30 pm
FREE AND OPEN TO THE PUBLIC
Co-sponsored by CMU's Program in Technology and 
Humanities and the Department of 
Engineering and Public Policy
GET YOUR CAREER OFF TO A FLYING START
It takes four years to get a college degree. How long will it take you to get a good job?If you haven't settled on a company or corpor­ation yet, why not get your executive career off to a flying start as a pilot or navigator in the United States Air Force? It's the finest flight program in the world, the pay is excellent, and you'll enjoy the prestige that goes with the silver wings of an Air Force pilot or navigator.It's one of the finest opportunities in the nation. And a great place to gain executive experience with million dollar responsibility. Find out today about the Air Force flight program. Contact
SAM TALTON: 644-2705
A great way of Me£>
Mariano "Flip" DeFilippo has been chosen the
To even the most casual observer, it 
is reasonably obvious that the game of 
basketball and its participants have 
changed drastically through the years.
Due to the increase in sheer physical 
size, strength and speed of the individuals 
playing the game, the concept of the game, 
its strategies and nuances, have also 
changed.
However, through the years and the 
changes, one thing has remained constant: 
the need for the “team” player.
Enter Mariano DeFilippo of Carnegie 
Mellon University.
Though only 5-8, DeFilippo — and 
players of similar size and talents — will 
always have a place in the game.
PAC player-of-the-week for week number one.
This fact was never more evident than 
in the past week, as DeFilippo -injury- 
riddled through the majority of CMU’s 44 
pre-season — came off the bench to spark 
the Tartans of fifth-year coach Dave 
Maloney, to a pair of victories to open the 
1979-80 Presidents’ Athletic Conference 
season.
In a 75-73 season-opening victory over 
John Carroll, DeFilippo poured in 20 
points while feeding teammates 14 times 
for scores. And, despite his diminutive 
size, still managed to pick off four re­
bounds.
For the week, he tallied 29 points and 
accumulated 20 assists (which ranks him 
first at the conclusion of week number one 
in the PAC-8 in the latter category) and, 
for his efforts, has been selected as- the 
loop’s “Player of the Week.”
Starting his first game since being ham­
pered by a groin pull before Christmas, 
“Flip” sparkled in CMU’s league opener at 
John Carroll University, pouring in 20 
points and adding 14 assists as the Tartans 
triumphed, 75-73.
Three days later, the Tartan co-captain 
and graduate of Bishop McDevitt High 
School, Harrisburg, Pa., collected 9 points 
and 6 assists as the Tartans rolled over 
Hiram, 59-46.
“It’s no coincidence that CMU hasn’t 
had a losing season since Flip came,” 
Head Coach Dave Maloney says of his 
three-year starter. “He’s everything you 
want a point guard to be.”
“He’s confident, quick, heady and a 
leader. He’s an unselfish ballplayer, very 
team-oriented, but he can shoot from the 
outside and he reads defenses well.”
A senior from Harrisburg, “Flip” ended 
fourth in the PAC-8 in assists a year ago 
with 76, while finishing sixth in free throw 
percentage (82.0).

---------------------------------------------------

January 22, 1980—TARTAN—Page 21
IM basketball tips-off exciting year in IM sports action
by Leslie Weiser
With a little over two weeks of the 
spring semester under our belts, the intra­
mural program is back in full swing. 
Basketball has started; the schedules will 
be out this week. Please note the “ officials 
schedule” for your team. Also, be sure to 
sign the score sheet and note the winning 
score. The overall commissioner for basket­
ball is Bob Dudas, phone 681-1436; major 
league commissioners are Ralph David and 
Ken Gustafson, phone 578-4271; intermed­
iate league commissioner is Mark Johnson, 
phone 578-4626; minor league commis­
sioner is Wes Seeley, phone 578-4004; 
women’s league commissioner is Mariano 
DeFilippo, phone 578-4002.
Backgammon play will start this week. 
The commissioner is Cathy Jensen, phone 
687-4684. Several sports have entries due 
on January 24. They are Bridge, Handball, 
Wrestling, and Water Basketball. Commis­
sioners are needed for all these sports
except tor Wrestling. The wrestling com­
missioner is Marc Poland from Kappa 
Sigma.
The next Intramural Board meeting will 
be on Thursday, January 31st at 12:30 in 
Room 104, Gym.
The following is a list of the 1979 IM 
champions. Will they repeat in 1980?
Basketball
MAJOR—GSIA Big Bucks 
INT ERMEDI AT E —Dazz 
MINOR—Bell Boys 
Bridge—Scrow 
Handball—Faculty Bulldogs 
Wrestling—KS 
Water Basketball-KS
Table Tennis (Singles)—Rosenthal 
Table Tennis (Doubles)—Rosenthal-Kumar 
Call Pool—KS
Call Pool (Individual)—Giovannini 
Co-Rec Badminton-Harbourne and 
Laughton 
Foul Shooting—ZBT
Co-Rec Table Tennis— Bronder and Davis 
Swimming-Only Team 
Team Badminton—Martins 
Softball
MAJOR—Coaches All-Stars 
INTERMEDIATE—Intensive Care 
. MINOR—P&D 
Fencing—Institution 
Archery—Sam and Michael 
Track-CIA 
Football
MAJOR—The Haven 
INTERMEDATE-KS 
MINOR—PIKA—B 
WOMEN-KKG 
Tennis—Sex Pistols
Golf—GSIA
Co-Rec Volleybajl-Coaches All-Stars 
Cross Country-Math Department 
Water Polo-PKT 
Chess-The Question Marks 
Soccer
MAJOR—Bootstraps 
MINOR—Period 
Team Volleyball
MAJOR—Coaches All-Stars 
INTERMEDIATE-PKT 
MINOR—Overdue 
WOMEN-Mahogany II 
Bowling—TX 
Racquetball
MAJOR-flermaphrodites 
MINOR—Excitable Boys 
Team Table Tennis—MMS —Zoo 
3-Man Volleyball
MAJOR—Coaches All-Stars 
MINOR—Mudgemen 
Darts—Beta
Backgammo'h—8 Primes
Get a problem solver that’s solving problems in the real world.
The more your courses approach the prob­lems of the real world, the more you need a calculator that’s already there.These two programmable calculators from Texas Instruments can take you from your engineering courses right into the ranks of professionals like the ones who created the complex programs to simplify and speed up scoring at the Winter Olympics.The TI Programmable 58C lets you spend your time learning concepts instead of working problems. $130*.Perhaps your current calculator can solve advanced engineering problems, but you’ll probably spend a lot of time doing it. With the TI-58C’s 480 program steps or up to 60 memories, plus 170 keyboard func­tions and operations, you’ll be amazed at just how much of the work the TI-58C will 
do for you.The TI-58C has a Constant Memory™ feature that lets you lock a program in the machine — even when it’s turned off. You can program the calculator as you learn in class and use it later to review the concept and work the problems. You can store re­sults or data in the calculator, even if you turn it off, for later use.The TI-58C will seem like more than a calculator — its computer-like capabilities let you design your own programs or use Tfexas Instruments unique plug-in Solid State Software™ modules with ready-to-
use programs. A Master Library module (included with the calculator) has 25 basic programs in math, statistics, and other areas of general interest. Twelve optional library modules include programs on ap­plied statistics, advanced mathematical routines, electrical engineering, business decisions, and much more.With all of its capabilities and functions the TI-58C is simple to operate using TI’s AOS™ algebraic operating system. The AOS entry system lets you enter problems the way they are written — from left to right—and handles up to 9 levels of paren­theses in accordance with the rules of alge­braic hierarchy.With the TI-58C you’ll also get a copy of Personal Program­ming, an owner’s manual that’ll help get you started in programming — even if you’ve never programmed before.The TI Program­mable 59 goes from engineering to the Winter Olympics.$300*.The reason the Winter Olympics chose the TI-59 for ver­ifying scoring results at many events is the same reason it can help you get all you can from your courses—versatility.
Up to 960 program steps or up to 100 memories plus 4 types of display testing, 10 user flags, 72 labels, and 6 levels of subroutines let the power of program­ming help you make short work of com­plex problems.Even with all the 175 keyboard functions and operations at your command, the TI-59 responds to simple AOS algebraic entry system control. So the calculator becomes part of the solution — not part of the problem.The TI-59 uses Texas Instruments Solid Stat£ Software modules and comes with the Master Library module. You also get the added versatility and capability of magnetic cards to record your own pro­grams. With them you can also tie into pro- grams on modules for extended programming routines.You’ll get a copy of Personal Program­ming with your new TI-59 that’ll help you get all the power we put into it. And the book can start you programming even if you’ve never tried it before.If you’re starting on the way to a career in engineering get a calculator that’ll help you get there. And get one that’ll continue to serve you well on the job.See the whole line of ad­vanced Texas Instruments calculators at your college bookstore or at other TI dealers everywhere.
•U.S. suggested retail price.
Texas Instruments technology-bringing at fordable electronics to your fingertips.
Pgh.o sto-Gazgt-o
C1900 Texas Instruments Incorporated INCORPORATED45692A

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22-TARTAN-January 22,1980
SDC Space
SDC held its weekly meeting on 
Wednesday, January 16th. President Jim 
Balsom stated that the Bakery /Deli will 
probably re- open, but with higher prices. 
Steve Fulton, Vice-President for More- 
wood Gardems, reminded representatives 
that cooking is not allowed in the dorm­
itory rooms.
At the meeting, SDC passed the fol­
lowing resolution suggested by Ansel 
Moore:
“Be it resolved that SDC expresses its 
outrage at the lack of student involve­
ment in the recent decision to close cer­
tain Food Service operations. Further­
more, SDC requests the immediate re-op­
ening of the Bakery/Deli operation. SDC 
also expects that the recently formed 
Food Service Committee will be given 
complete authority to investigate Food 
Service operations. ”
Copies of the resolution were sent to 
Dr. Cyert, Dr. Van Horn, Oscar Mayer, 
and Dean Swank.
Melanie Fetrow, chairperson of Social 
Committee, told representatives about 
the plans for the Valentine’s Dance, 
scheduled for February 16 in the Skibo 
Ballroom from 9 to 1.
SDC will hold its next meeting on Jan­
uary 23 at 7:00 in the Wherrett Room, 
Skibo.
Sangrey discusses Civ E
continued from page 5
-Strengthening the MBA program with a 
cooperative educational experience with 
industry.
-Extensive use of the Pittsburgh engi­
neering community, which is one of the 
largest and most prestigous in the nation 
as adjunct faculty members,
-Expanding the Ph. D. program; includ­
ing an industrial internship option to 
give students “clinical experience.”
Sangrey has begun work on these propo­
sals.
Currently, the department is roughly 
one third the size of most other Civ E pro­
grams throughout the country. To help 
correct this problem, Sangrey plans to hire 
four new faculty members by March. They 
will instruct in soil mechanics, environmen­
tal engineering, and transportation.
¿angrey called CMU a truly excellent 
institution; however he was dissapointed to 
learn that the percentage of students who 
go on to graduate school is far below the 
national average. He regards our undergra­
duate grads as among the best trained in
their profession. In order to insure the 
professional development of CMU students 
he recommends continuing education via 
grad school. A more convincing argument 
for continuing beyond a BS is the job mar­
ket. Sangrey sees the demand for Civil 
Eng. in the ’80s as “strong and it will 
continue to be so; especially for the mas­
ters and Ph. D. candidates who serve as 
consulting engineers, advanced manage­
ment engineering and research.”
Sangrey considers the CMU Civil Eng. 
curriculum “the most demanding program 
in the country and it is especially deman­
ding in the theoretical, analytical, and 
mathematical areas but at the same time 
takes a very innovative approach to en­
gineering design.” The undergraduate 
teaching, Sangrey says, is very traditional 
in the sense that it covers the broad range 
of disciplines commonly found in civil en­
gineering; however it is non-traditional in 
its approach to design and its emphasis on 
teaching fundamental rather than ‘cook­
book’ design courses.”
CLOTHES ENCOUNTERS
OF THE BEST KIND
January 24,1980 
7:00 p.m. 
Wherrett Room
Join LOIS FENTON, internationally 
famous fashion consultant for 
men and women, to find out wliat 
to wear to make your first 
impression your best.
Open to the campus.
Sponsored by tho The Career Development 
Committee of the Student Alumni Relations 
Council.
Auxil iary Services 
that
ment groups at CMU.
audit should be reported directly to all Student Govern-
services are self-supporting, all costs are passed directly to the 
services are a partial monopoly, akin to a public utility, with-
as the primary customer of these services, is entitled to be aware of the full facts
The
actionif the books are not voluntarily opened, in order
Council, and Unified 
negotiated by the o.
- The results of the
¦
to each organization that
ly from the cummulative reserve, and from my other source that the Treasurer
: :
- Student Senate asks the assistance and co-operation of all students and stu­
dent organisations in this effort.
Chem E Head optimistic
continued from page 5
According to Westerberg “the Chemical 
Engineering department here is one of the 
few departmenst which has been widely 
recognized and improved in its quality in 
the last five years.” The department is 
now getting top graduate students, accord­
ing to Westerberg, and that fact plus the 
deparments top eight to ten undegraduates 
rating should help increase the departments 
prestige even further. Westerberg confi­
dently describes the Chemical Engineering 
department’s outlook as “on the rise.”
Graduates are “ very well prepared” 
for chemical engineering careers when they 
leave CMU stated Westerberg. He also advi­
sed graduates to consider pursuit of a Mas­
ter’s Degree. The one year spent in pursuit 
of the Masters “will teach you almost as 
much as you learned in the previous 
four years” according to Westerberg.
At the present time, the future looks 
bright for chemical engineers. Westerberg 
says that “at least for the next few years, 
the number of job opportunities in chemi-
cal engineering will continue to increase 
due to the growing demand in goverment, 
the electrial power industry, and the 
automotive industry,” to name a few. 
Current problems in energy, pollution con­
trol, and biomedical engineering are aslo 
being addressed by chemical engineers.
Westerberg points at that this trend is 
nation wide. “Schools across the country, 
not only at CMU, have experienced 75- 
100% increases in their undergraduate 
chemical engineering populations.” Chem­
ical engineers also earn the highest average 
Bachelors Degree salary of any CMU 
graduate (about $.18,000 a year).
For those engineers concerned about 
having to take more liberal arts courses, 
Westerberg states that “there is no way 
the department could give a four year degree 
and increase the numer of liberal arts 
courses.” It is also clear “ that chemical 
engineering students at CMU take two 
more liberal arts courses than chemical 
engineering students at other universities.” 
Westerberg would not, however, support 
a move to reduce the H&SSrequirements.
«ON CITY
SCHUTZ
BUDSCHMIDTS CHAMP ALE STROHS GENESEE ROLLING ROCK SCHUTZ MALT BALLANTINE ALE MILLER LIGHT 
MICHELOB PABST MILLER COLT 45GENESEE CREAM ALE BUSCHSCHLITZ LIGHT
Qriginai
Featuring 22 Varieties Steak Subs
SERVING BEER SUNDAY 1 PM 2 AM 
QUARTS • MUGS - PITCHERS 
CHOICE OF 6 DIFFERENT DRAFT BEERSMN.LERS. COLT 4S. MOL SON Alt lOWtMMAU DARK 
STROMS MEINiKEN LIGHTOne dirttrtnt 160/61* teamed etitt mM 
SCHLITZ • PABST 
SCHLITZ MALT • STROM S • ROLLING ROCK
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO ADVER­
TIZE OUR LOW BEER PRICES • wfciAiTv runs *
FRESH CUT FRENCH FRIES • PIZZA SERVED TILL 3 AM 
HOT DOGS CHOICE OF 12 DIFFERENT CONDIMENTS 
35 VARIETIES OF SANDWICHES 
--------------- IMPORTS -----------------
HOT DOG SHOPS, INC 
621-7388 or 621-11853901 FORBES AV (OAKLAND) PGH PA 15213
¦BASS ALE England 
•OORT HANSA Germany 
•SAM MOUEL PNRpmM 
•SPATENBRAU Gannany 
•ST PAUU GML Qwmy 
•PILSNER UROUELL Ciacti 
•QUMESS STOUT lr«M 
•DAS XX EOUtS Maxico 
•WURZBURGER Gannany 
•HARP LASER Iraland 
•LOWENBRAU Oarmany 
•O'KEEFE ALE Canada 
•DMKEL ACKER Oarmwfy 
•TECATE Manco 
•ISENBECK W Qarmany 
•IRYSTALL Italy 
•MACKESON England
•KIRIN Japan 
•PEROMIMy 
•RK3NES Nonaay 
•BECKS Qarmany 
•HOFBRAU Gannany 
•mMECPoMnd 
•KRAKUS Potand
• SUPERIOR Mauco •FUSifcRS Auatafta 
•HEINEKEN Haland 
•MOLSON ALE Canada 
•PAULANER Gannany 
•GOS3ER AuaMa• T ANKARO London
• UNION W Gannany 
•PALE ALE London
• DINKEL Gannany 
•WARFTEWEL Gannany
* ? “»VVt t1t rtt t>*t * 111 r t r'.tf.t t T f 11 * f * t:t t-

---------------------------------------------------

Scotch 'n' Soda
classified ads
Female Roomate Wanted to share spacious
Wilkinsburg apartment; 15 mimutes from 
CMU, convenient transportation. $150 
per month. Immediate. Cali Paula at 578- 
3155 (days).
Squirrel Hill. Need Housemate. In 3 Bed­
room House, $115/mo + utilities. Near 
Shady + Forbes. Call 422-5830 early 
afternoon or night.
Housemate Wanted. Own Bedroom and
Study. Furnished. $105 + utilities. 521 - 
5091.
For Rent: Partially Furnished Cozy Apart­
ment; 1 bedroom, equipped kitchen, 
dining/living room combination, bath. 
Laundry in basement. First floor, rear. 
S. Winebiddle Ave. — close to CMU, 
Pitt, West Penn, shopping. Private entrance. 
Rent includes couch, TV, drapes plus many 
other extras. Available March 1, 1980. 
$170 + utilities. Call 441-4875 or 761 - 
7592, evenings.
For Sale: Michelin ZX radials ,size 185/701
13. Only 2,000 miles. Perfect condition. 
One pair $70. Call 421 -4493.
Silver Coins. Cash in on the high cost of 
silver. Call to find out what yours are 
worth. After 5 PM. 521-2749.
EASY EXTRA INCOME: $500/$1000 
Stuffing envelopes — Guaranteed. Send 
self-addressed, stamped envelope to: 
DEXTER ENTERPRISES, 3039 Shrine PI. 
LA, CA. 90007.
There are jobs available as part of the
C-MAP Tutoring Staff if you are; a success­
ful student, have good learning skills, have 
good relating skills, would like to work as 
a tutor. Apply now! See Cordell Sloan in 
the C-MAP Office; 4th floor of the Mar­
garet Morrison Building; Room 410.
Work Study Students — Need Eight Stu­
dents to be subjects in a long-term psy­
chology learning experiment. Must be re­
liable and able to work 1 — 2 hours, 5 days 
per week. $3.00/HR plus performance 
bonus. Call Barbara x2815.
Basement whirlpool washer & Kenmahr 
dryer. Very reasonable. x2236 or 422- 
8611.
Counselors, over 19 for unique overnight
boys' summer camp in Blue Ridge Moun­
tains of Pennsylvania. Able to instruct any 
one of the following; Watersafety, Water- 
skiing, Arts & Crafts, Boating, Soccer, Bas­
ketball, Athletics, Rock Climbing, Riflery, 
Track, Tennis, Golf, or Pioneering. White 
Camp Director, 138 Red Rambler Drive, 
Lafayette Hill, Pa. 19444.
Reward Offered for return of TI-57 Calcu­
lator picked up from Tartan Grill during 
finals week last semester. Please call Mark, 
681-7694; no questions asked.
A pair of glasses were left on the desk of 
Fran Gibson (Dr. Schatz's office) the week 
of January 14. Pick them up in 607 Warner 
Hall.
Work Study Students Needed! Good
typing skills, general office work. $3.50/hr. 
Contact A. Strazds, Center for Study of 
Translation, BH 253, x3578.
We want an H&SS terminal room in Baker
Hall!
Babbit
Charlie McCarthy — your name looks
good in print!!!
clubs
ATTENTION THISTLE STAFF: 1980-81
Editorial Board Elections to be held Tues­
day, January 22, 6 PM in THISTLE office. 
Please plan to attend.
W3VC, Carnegie Tech Radio Club, meets
tonight (Tuesday, January 22) at 7:30 PM 
in HH401. All interested are invited to 
attend.
If you are interested in joining a Public
Speaking Club, please call Dr. Thomas 
Keer at x2294 or Paul Kravits at 521- 
7289.
Scotch 'n' Soda will be holding auditions
for the Spring Musical on Sunday, January 
27 at 1 PM. Actors, singers, gymnasts and 
magicians are welcome. Copies of the script 
of this year's musical are available in 
Hunt Library. Crew call for the musical is 
also upcoming - be ready!
Internation Information Service: For infor­
mation about foreign countries and cul­
tures, contact the International Student 
Organization of CMU, Box 181, Baker 
Hall, x3043. Our members are willing to 
personally discuss various aspects of their 
home countries with you. If we don't have 
someone from the country you're inter­
ested in, we'll try to find someone else 
who can answer your questions.
Senate meeting times — General meets on 
Tuesday at 6:30 in Wherrett; Rules Com­
mittee meets at 6:00 on Thursday in Rm 
33, Finance Committee meets 5:30 on 
Wednesday in Rm 12.
There is one seat open on Student Senate
in MIS. This seat is to be filled by petition. 
Petitions are available at the Rules Com­
mittee box at Skibo Information Desk and 
should be submitted no later than January 
28, 1980.
Dorm Residents are needed to fill vacancies
on the Students' Dormitory Council. If 
you live in any of the following areas and 
are interested in joining SDC, please con­
tact Steve Fulton at x3996 for more in­
formation by January 30, 1980.Doherty 
Apartments: B Tower, C or D Tower; 
Morewood Gardens: 2B or 3B, 4B or 5B, 
6B or 7B, 3D or 4D; Mudge House: 2C or 
3C.
If you live in any of the following areas, 
please contact Jeff Pitchford at x4171: 
Boss Hall: 1st or 2nd floor; Donner Hall: 
1st floor men, 1st floor women; McGill 
Hall: 1st or 2nd floor; Scobell: 2nd floor, 
3rd floor; Roselawn.
Any area mentioned above which does 
not have an SDC representative may lose 
its party (RSAF) money. If you are inter­
ested in using that money, make sure that 
someone becomes a rep!
SDC needs a properties manager to take 
charge of maintaining and replacing its 
equipment. The position is open to any 
dorm resident, and you need not be on 
work-study. If you are interested, please
contact either Mark Knapp at x4664 or 
Bill Reiner at x4662 or Ansel Moore at 
x4068 for more information.
SDC needs 6 people to fill its Representa­
tive-at-large positions. 3 people are needed 
from the Hill and 3 from Morewood, 
Doherty or Mudge by January 23. If you 
are interested all you need to do is have 25 
dorm residents sign a petition saying that 
they want you as a representative. If you 
live on the Hill, give it to Jeff Pitchford in 
203 Scobell (x4171). If you live in More­
wood, Doherty, or Mudge give it to Steve 
Fulton in,E-724 Morewood (x3996). 
AIESEC members will present a slide pre­
sentation in cooperation with the CPP 
Luncheon Forum entitled "AIESEC - An 
International Experience'' on Thursday, 
January 24 at 12:30 in the Wherrett 
Room.
AIESEC, the International Association 
of Students of Economics and Business, 
sponsors an international management 
trainee exchange program among students 
of major universities around the world.
Participating members who traveled 
abroad last summer will narrate their ex­
perience of Norway, Greece and Paris 
through slides and informal discussion.
Anyone interested in acquiring inter­
national experience while enjoying a cul­
tural reception is welcome.
official
oohn P. Crecine, Dean of the College of
Humanities and Social Sciences, will have 
open office hours for students on Tuesday 
from 1:30 to 3:30 PM.
There will be a meeting of the Biology SAC
this Wednesday at 5 PM in Skibo Room 13. 
SAC committee in Fine Arts will be
selling coffee, tea, cocoa, doughnuts and 
fruit Monday through Wednesday, 9-11 PM 
to raise funds for the art film series. 
CARNEGIE TECH FACULTY FEDERAL
CREDIT UNION. Notice of Stockholder's 
Meeting. The annual meeting of the Carne­
gie Tech Faculty Federal Credit Union will 
be held on Tuesday, January 22, 1980 
at 12:00 PM in the Multi-Purpose Room 
of Hunt Library. The following items will 
be on the agenda: Dividend rate, which is 
7%! this quarter, resulting in an average 
annual rate of 6.31%; Election of officers. 
This will be the 43rd year of the Credit 
Union's existance on the campus. All 
members are urged to attend. There will 
be 4 door prizes, on display now in the 
Credit Union Office.
Attention all Seniors!! The Senior Banquet
will be held this year on January 26,1980. 
It is free to all seniors. Those wishing to 
attend must go to the Alumni Office, fifth 
floor Warner Hall, to receive their ticket, 
prior to January 23. Please have your valid 
I.D. with you. Following the Banquet will 
be a dance, open to the entire campus, 
where door prizes, including a trip for two 
to Jamaica will be awarded. Prize winners 
must be present.
“FOCUS ON A NEW DECADE", a Busi­
ness Seminar, will be held on Saturday, 
February 2, 1980 in Skibo. Discussions
on numerous enlightening topics con­
cerning Architecture, Design, Engineering, 
and Management are included. Make 
reservations before January 30, 1980 at 
the Alumni Office, 5th floor Warner Hall. 
“Appropriate Technology: Its Meaning for 
the 1980's" will be presented at the GSIA 
auditorium on Thursday, January 24, at 
7:30 PM.
The speaker. Dr. Langdon Winner,
Professor of Political Science and Tech­
nology at MIT, is the author of the book 
Autonomous Technology. Winner will dis­
cuss how technology structures our lives 
and choices, and the importance of appro­
priate technology from both a social and 
economic standpoint.
The lecture is co-sponsored by the Pro­
gram in Technology and Humanities and 
the Department of Engineering and Public 
Policy, and is free and open to the public. 
Majoring in Administration and Manage­
ment Sciences. To CIT and MIS Fresh­
men who want to be considered for ad­
mission to CIT/MIS Track of A&MS. 
You should bring copy of Fall 1979 grades 
to the Department Office (GSIA 206) 
before March 1. To H&SS sophmores 
who want to be considered for admission 
to Department of A&MS as Juniors in 
September 1980. You should bring tran­
script from 1978 academic year and Fall
1979 grades to Department Office (GSIA 
206) before February 15.
Anyone interested in dance: I am in the 
process of trying to institute a dance 
course within the PE curriculum here at 
CMU. This is for people who cannot take 
the Fine Arts dance courses, but are interes­
ted in a challenging dance program. I know 
of about 20 people who have called the 
Fine Arts about their courses and have 
been rejected. If we pull our resources to­
gether and show the demand for this course 
to the right people we shouldn't have to 
transfer or pay for a course which we have 
the perfect capabilities of having here at 
CMU. Please call me, Marcy Trent at 
x4619 if interested.
general
The Pittsburgh section of the Optical
Society of America will meet on January 
23 at 8:30 PM in the Hunt Library Multi­
purpose Room. Guest speaker Dr. Wilfred 
Cleland will lecture on "Fbtential Uses 
of Opto-electronic Devices in Experimen­
tal High Energy Physics.''
Auditions for the upcoming McKeesport
Little Theater production of Tennessee 
Williams' "Glass Menagerie” are scheduled 
Jan. 22 and 24 at 7:30 at the theater, 
Coursin Street and Bailie Ave. The cast 
calls for one older woman described 
as age 50ish and two men and a woman 
aged 24 to early-30's, according to Bote 
Carroll, who is directing. Jean Drago and 
Pat Yost are co-producers, and further 
information is available by telephoning 
the theater.
SPRING MUSICAL
—... V a*lf 4AUDITIONS!
Sunday, January 27

---------------------------------------------------

a.b.
January 24 at 6, 8, 10 PM
Distant Thunder in DH 2210 
Admission $.75 with ID/$1.00 without 
January 25 at 6, 8, 10:30, 12:45 
Hair in DH 2210
Admission $1.00 with I D/S 1.25 without
wrct
January 26 at 6pm 
January 29 at 3pm
Airplay - "Bertrano or Hats Don't 
by C.V. Peters
special
January 26 at 10pm 
Skibo Ballroom
The Senior Banquet 
Ail CMU Students invited
Lie'
films
January 23 at 7pm
Königliche Honeit (German dialogue)
Porter Hall Room 100
January 22 - ''Inventing a Nation”
January 23 - "Gone West”
January 28 - ”A Fireball in the Night” 
January 29 - "Domesticating a Wilderness” 
All showings take place in the Wherrett 
Room at 11:30 am & 12:30pm.
January 26 at 6, 8, 10, 12 PM
Pink Flamingos in DH 2210
Admission $.50 with ID/$1.00 without
Carnegie Institute Films 
January 22 at 7:30 PM
Lecture Hall - $1.50 Admission Films by 
Werner Herzoy : Fata Morgana and How 
Much Wood Wood a Woodchuck Chuck.
January 26 at 1:30 PM and 3:00PM
Museum of Art Theater - $1.50 Admission 
Films by Lotte Reiniger: Adventures of 
Prince Achmed ; and by John Issach : The 
Art of Lotte Reiniger 
January 27 at 7:30 PM 
Lecture Hall - $1.50 Admission 
Animation Program : Object Animation 
(1955-1978)
January 29 at 7:30 PM 
Lecture Hall - $1.50 Admission films by 
Werner Herzog : Land of Silence and 
Darkness and Sculpture Steiner.
E3E59I
January 22 at 8pm 
Skibo Ballroom
CMU Jazz Ensemble Concert
Admission $1.00
Danny Kresky Enterprises presents:
January 24 at 7:30 PM
Aerosmith with special guests to be 
announced, has rescheduled their Decem­
ber concert at the Civic arena.
February 1 at 9:30 PM
Off Broadway will be making their first 
area appearance at the Decade Club in 
Oakland.
DiCesare - Engler Productions presents: 
February 1, 2 at 8:30 PM
Teddy Pendergrass will be appearing at the 
Stanley Theatre for two evening perform­
ances. Tickets are $12.50.
February 4 at 7:30 PM
Styx has rescheduled their concert (can­
celled by last year's arena strike) at 
the Civic Arena.
February 6 at 7:30pm 
Heinz Hall
Andre Previn host University Night 
Tickets now available to High School 
seniors and college students with ID/$3 
Call: Kathy Butera at 281-8185 ext. 48 
for tickets.
February 8,9 at 8:30 PM
B.B. King will be bringing back the blues 
to the Stanley Theatre for two evenings. 
January 26 at 8 PM
Carlow College Kresge Theatre
The Saint Anne Brass Concert
Call : 578-6043 for more information
Through February 15 
Hunt Institute
"The Tradition of Fine Bookbinding in 
the Twentieth Century.” an exhibit of ap­
proximately 100 bookbindings, will be 
held at the Hunt Institute for Botanical 
Documentation. The gallery is free and 
open to the public, Mondays through Fri­
days from 9 AM to 5 PM.
sports
arts
January 21-January 25 
Ellis Gallery, 3rd Floor CFA.
Stuart Suna presents an exhibition of his 
sculptures.
January 24 to March 16 
Carnegie Institute
Luke Swank: Photographs—Gallery D 
Through March 16 
Carnegie Institute
Karen Stoller: Works in Fiber—Entrance 
Gallery
Through January 27
407 South Craig Street, Oakland.
The PPA Gallery will feature the works of 
Anne Golumb/Painting, Lines, Comines; 
Joan Russel/Fiber; and Doris Bally/Frag­
ments. The show is free and open to the 
public. Gallery hours are Tuesday-Saturday 
10-5, and Sunday 1-5.
January 23—Men's Basketball vs. Bethany 
(Away 8 PM)
January 26— Men's Basketball vs. Allegheny 
(Home 2 PM)
Swimming vs. John Carroll 
(Home 1 PM)
Women's Basketball vs. 
Chatham (Home Noon) 
January 28—Women's Basketball vs. Geneva 
(Away 7 PM)
Penguin Hockey at the Civic Arena 
January 26—Pgh. vs. Boston 8 PM
Spirit Soccer at the Civic Arena 
January 23—Pgh. vs. Detroit 7:30 PM 
January 25—Pgh. vs. Hartford 8 PM
TARTAN STAFF ELECTIONS 
Elections for Editorial Board 
positions will take place on 
February 4, in Skibo 33, 7 PM.
The Jewish Faculty Discussion Group will
meet Thursday at 8 PM in the Benedum 
Hall, O'Hara Street, for a panel discussion 
on "Black and Jewish Relations in the 
Aftermath of the Andrew Young 'Resig­
nation'."
Daily Mass is celebrated by the Roman
Catholic Chaplaincy (The Univ. Oratory 
Parish) Monday through Friday at 12:30 
PM in CMU's Chapel. Skibo 39. If your 
time is limited because of the lunch hour 
please feel free to eat your lunch first and 
still receive the Eucharist. We invite the 
campus community to come and join us.
On'the weekend of February 8, 9, and 10,
Slippery Rock State College will host its 
First Annual 48 Hour Marathon sponsored 
by Alpha Sigma Phi Fraternity. All pro­
ceeds will benefit the American Heart 
Association. The event is scheduled to 
take place Friday at 7:00 PM in the East 
Gym on Campus. Anyone interested, 
write:
American Heart Dance Marathon 
Box 49, Mail Room Old Main 
Slippery Rock State College 
Slippery Rock PA 16057
or call: Alpha Sigma Phi Fraternity House- 
794-9529; American Heart Association- 
287-1823. So get out there and "Dance 
Your Heart Out". Remember the Heart 
Fund is "Fighting For Your Life”!
Shabbat services and dinner begin Friday at
5 30 PM at Hillel, 315 S. Bellefield Reser­
vations should be made in advance by cal­
ling 621-8875.
The Campus Campaign for Israel and
World Jewry is sponsoring a Workers Train­
ing Program January 27 from 4-7 PM. For 
information call Rachel Snyder at 621- 
8875 or 521 2131.
The Hunt Institute for Botanical Documen­
tation presents an exhibition , "The Tradi­
tion of Fine Bookbinding in the Twentieth 
Century," in the Penthouse of Hunt Library. 
This exhibition includes nearly 100 bind­
ings, illustrating binding styles from the 
sixteenth century to the present. An illus­
trated catalogue of this exhibition is avail­
able for sale from the Hunt Institute.
Another exhibit at the Institute, "Hand 
Bookbinding: Techniques and Materials", 
features many of the processes in book­
binding in minature models.
Both exhibits are open to the public, 
Monday through Friday from 9 AM to 5 
PM and will continue until February 15.
'The Pawnbroker" will be shown January
27 at 8 PM in the Rogal Room of the Jew­
ish Community Center, 315 S. Bellefield. 
Rod Steiger portrays a New York pawn­
broker who had been through so many 
Nazi horrors during the war that he has 
turned completely inside himself. A truly 
brilliant movie, 'The Pawnbroker" brought 
to Steiger the Best Actor Award at the Ber­
lin Film Festival and a nomination for an 
Oscar. Admission is $1.00 for students. 
General Public— $2.00.
Join the Talmud Study Group with Rabbi
Poupko, Sunday 3-4 PM at Hillel, 315 S. 
Bellefield.
On January 26, the Jewish Grad Associa­
tion is having a party. Call 683-0574 for 
more information.
Israeli dancing Thursday at 8 PM at Hillel,
315 S. Bellefield.
Don't forget the City of Pittsburgh,
Department of Parks and Recrcation have 
made toboggans available for residents ev­
ery Saturday, thru March, weather permit­
ting. Arrangements can be made by con­
tacting the Department of Parks and Rec­
reation. Nature Division at 255-2353.
Tobogganing locations-
Every Saturday, 10 AM to 4 PM,weather
permitting.
Schenley Park: Flagstaff Hill located op­
posite of Phipps Conservatory.
Riverview Park: Wissahickon Nature
Center.
Frick Park: The Frick Park Nature Center.
Highland Park: Kings Estate located at 
1251 North Negley Avenue.
scholarships
An initiated member of any of the five
sororities at Carnegie Mellon University 
whose home is in Trumbull County, Ohio 
and who has a 2.5 grade point average 
may apply for the Trumbull County 
Panhellenic Association Scholarship for 
1979-1980. Details and application forms 
are available in Dean Cox's office, Warner 
Hall 204. The deadline for submitting 
completed applications is April 1, 1980.
VIRA L. HEINZ TRAVEL AWARD
Women students who are currently com­
pleting their junior year and who plan to 
study in the summer between their junior 
and senior years are eligible to apply for 
the VIRA L. HEINZ TRAVEL AWARD. 
This award provides $2500 to a woman 
student at Carnegie-Mellon Universtiy 
through the Pittsburgh Foundation as 
a result of a gift of. M(s. Vira L. Heinz, 
a trustee emerita. Application forms are 
available in Dean Cox's office. Room 204, 
Warner Hall. The deadline for submitting 
completed applications is January 31. 
Applicants will be requested to be pre­
sent for an interview with the Selection 
Committtee on February 15. The award 
will be announced immediately thereafter.
Applications for the Delta Delta Delta
Scholarship competition which is open to 
all full-time undergraduate women stu­
dents are available in Dean Cox's office, 
Warner Hall 204. The winner of the local 
competition is eligible for the $1000 
national competition. The deadline for 
submitting completed applications is March 
1, 1980. PLEASE NOTE: This scholar­
ship is not restricted to members of Delta 
Delta Delta but is open to all full-time 
undergraduate women.
Twenty future leaders in public affairs will
have help financing their graduate educa­
tion when the recipients of this years's 
competition for Kennedy Fellowships are 
announced by Harvard's John F. Kennedy 
School of Government on April 1, 1980.
Graham T. Allison, Dean of the Ken­
nedy School, highlighted several aspects of 
the fellowship program:
'The purpose of the Kennedy Fellow­
ship is to assist outstanding young women 
and men in acquiring professional educa­
tion for a future career in public policy. 
Competition is keen for each of the four 
areas of the award: Govenment and Public 
Policy; International Affairs; Economics; 
and Science and Technology.
'The candidates we select will demon­
strate excellence in a number of attributes, 
including intellectual distinction, leader­
ship potential, and personal character. I 
look forward to welcoming a new group of 
Fellows to the School of Government 
next fall.”
Kennedy Fellows attend the School'of 
Government's Master in Public Policy Pro­
gram with an option to subsequently com­
plete a Ph.D. in Public Policy. They receive 
stipends based on fiancial need which may 
include up to full tuition and living expen­
ses.
