The ATO’s had a ball last Tuesday when a 15 inch 
snowfall and ¿lass cancellations provided the op­
portunity to block the cut with a huge snowball.
The blockade survived a battle between the ATO’s 
and Sigma Nu’s, but fell under the unsympathetic 
efforts of Tech’s snow removal crews.
Give Generously—Fill the Chest!
* C A R N E G I E
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE
VOLUME 54 — NUMBER 19
OF TECHNOLOGY
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 14, 1962
Schwartz Talks On Austrian 
Catholicism And Nazi Regime
Professor Robert Schwartz of 
the History Department will talk 
about the study he did during the 
summer and fall semester in Aus­
tria on “The Relation Between the 
Catholic Church and the Nazi Re­
gime in Austria,” at an informal 
Coffee Hour in the YMCA and 
YWCA office, room 57, Skibo, on 
Thursday, March 15 at 4:30 p.m. 
Everyone is welcome. After a very 
brief presentation by Dr. 
Schwartz, there will be oppor­
tunity for questions and conversa­
tion about his experience.
Dr. Schwartz also made a study 
of the changes in the Socialist 
Party in Austria over the years 
due to the decreasing influence of 
Jews in the Party. Both studies 
were based on personal inter­
views. He was able to meet many 
Austrians representing a wide 
variety of professions, editors, pol­
iticians, church prelates, and 
statesmen.
Dr. Schwartz began studying the 
whole seven years of Church- 
State relations in view of the re­
sistance of the church to Hitler
but later had to confine it to a 
shorter period, that beginning in 
1938. He is a member of the 
American Committee for the His- j 
tory of the Church’s Struggle with 
Naziism.
Joseph Lectures 
On Contracting
Myron L. Joseph, professor of 
economics and head of the de­
partment of Industrial Manage­
ment, will address the Annual In­
dustrial Relations Conference of 
the Pittsburgh Chapter of the So­
ciety for Advancement of Man­
agement, Thursday, March 15, at 
the Hotel Penn-Sheraton.
Mr. Joseph will speak to the 
group on “Contracting-Out — 
Problems and Limitations.” In his 
talk, he will concern himself with 
some of the problems and limita­
tions encountered by management 
when work similar to that per­
formed by employees in a bar­
gaining unit is contracted out.
Qualification 
Applications 
Available
Applications for the April 17. 
1962 College Qualification Test 
are now available at local Selec­
tive Service boards.
Eligible students who intend to 
take this test should apply at once 
to the nearest Selective Service 
board for an application and a 
bulletin of information.
The student should fill out and 
mail his application immediately 
to SELECTIVE SERVICE EXAM­
INING SECTION, Educational 
Testing Service, P.O. Box 5886. 
Princton, New Jersey. April 17 
test applications must be post­
marked no later than midnight, 
March 27, 1962.
According to Educational Test­
ing Service, it will be greatly to 
the students advantage to file his 
aplication at once. Test results will 
be reported to the Student’s local 
board for use in considering his 
deferment.
Greek Sing Sponsors 
Competition and Dance
Tech’s annual Greek Sing Weekend will be held this 
coming weekend, March 16th and 17th. Greek Sing, the soror­
ity and fraternity competition will be held Friday, March 
16th, at 8:00 p.m. in the Carnegie Music Hall. Greek Swing, a 
semi-formal dance, will be held Saturday, March 17th from 
9:00 p.m. till 12:30 a.m. in Tech’s gym with music by Walt 
Harper’s Band.
Co-chairmen for the weekend 
are Sue Weishauss, Alpha Epsilon 
Phi, and Phil Andrew, Delta Upsi- 
lon. Decorations for the dance are 
being taken care of by Linda Cover 
and Bobby Wordtt, Chi Omega; 
and all sorority pledges are to 
put up the decorations.
The seven judges for the com­
petition have already been given 
the music that each group will 
sing. This music is prejudged for 
difficulty, musical worth and qual­
ity. On Friday evening each 
will be judged for interpretation 
and performance (intonation and 
diction). In addition to the sorori­
ties and fraternities, Sigma Alpha 
Iota and Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia 
will perform.
On Saturday evening at 11:15 
p. m. the first, second and third 
place winners of both the frater­
nity and sorority competition will 
be announced and trophies will be 
awarded. Also at that time the 
sorority and fraternity scholarship 
trophy winners will be announced.
The schedule ,of performance 
and each groups’ leaders are as 
follows:
Phi Kappa Theta—Harold Er­
ickson.
Kappa Kappa Gamma—Diane 
Dayton.
Alpha Tau Omega—Dave Gre- 
bos.
Delta Tau Delta—Dave Graves.
Chi Omega—Jackie Vacco.
Beta Theta Pi—Joe Oldfield.
Sigma Nu—Norm Goldblatt.
Delta Delta Delta—Phyllis Ihrig.
Beta Sigma Rho — Mike Pir- 
chesky.
Delta Gamma—Dottie Gantos.
Delta Upsilon—Ken Sutherland.
Pi Kappa Alpha—Joe Drake.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon — Wayne 
Tamarelli.
Alpha Epsilon Phi — Phylis Co­
hen.
Tau Delta Phi—Bob Rosenberg.
Sigma Kappa—Fran Gazze.
Kappa Sigma—
Kappa Alpha Theta—Sue Broad- 
head.
Sigma Alpha Iota — Women’s 
music society.
Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia—Men’s 
music society.
Tartan Seeks 
Staff Editors 
For New Year
The time is fast approaching 
when the present Tartan editorial 
staff must turn over leadership of 
the organization to a new grop of 
staff editors. By the middle of 
April the new staff will be active­
ly engaged in publishing the 
weekly newspaper while retiring 
members will step back offering 
only advice if needed.
Any persons interested in par­
ticipating on the Tartan staff as a 
staff editor for the coming activi­
ties year are invited to apply for 
the position in which they are 
interested. Applications will be ac­
cepted for the positions of Editor- 
in-Chief, Business Manager, Ad­
vertising .Manager, News Editor, 
Assistant News Editor, Features 
Editor, Layout Editor, Assistant 
News Editor, Features Editor, 
Copy Editor, Secretarial Editor 
and Photography Editor.
Applications should include a 
statement of interest, qualifica­
tions for the position, and other 
activities. Previous Tartan experi­
ence is helpful but not necessary 
for all positions. All applications 
must be received by Wednesday, 
March 21, and should be sent to 
Sally Farrell, the Tartan, in care 
of Dr. Strick’s office, Skibo.
Contributions 
Sought For 
Campus Chest
It will take $1,500. to fill the 
Campus Chest this year! Begin­
ning today, and continuing until 
Friday, each student will be con­
tacted by a solicitor of Campus 
Chest and asked to contribute. The 
funds which are collected will 
then be divided among several 
agencies whose prime concern is 
to help students who are unable 
to help themselves. Among these 
agencies are World University 
Service, whose primary concern 
is to aid refugees and exiled 
Recordings For The 
Blind Inc. whose thousands of
financial and the activities forms 1 sPea*i“1S books serve 1400 blindstudents in gaining their educa-
Sindent Congress 
Meeting Today
There wil be a meeting ol 
Student Congress today, March 14 
in the Wherrett Lounge of Skibo 
Congress reminds all organizations | students; 
that have not returned both the
to do so imediately, as they will 
not be able to use school facilities 
to operate until then. The two 
i forms are in Dr. Strick s office.
tion, to mention only two.
Your contribution will be great* 
ly appreciated—give generously!

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN —- Wednesday, March 14. 1962
Evans Lectures 
On Computing
Speaking at next Monday’s 
meeting of the Carnegie Tech 
student chapter of the Association 
for Computing Machinery will be 
Arthur Evans, Jr., faculty advisor 
of the group and Assistant Direc­
tor of the Computation Center. 
Mr. Evans will discuss “Interrupt 
Routines on the Bcndix G-20” at 
7:30 p.m. in Room 40 of Skibo. All 
persons interested in computing 
are cordially invited to attend the 
meeting. - - -
The mebers of the student chap­
ter are currently studying advan­
ced programming techniques, pre­
paring lecture notes for computer 
courses, and sponsoring help ses­
sions under the leadership of Ken­
neth Kloss, president; Sam Geff- 
ner, vice president: Rebecca
Hershorin, secretary; and James 
Mcllroy, treasurer. They recently 
heard Professor H. A. Simon, As­
sociate Dean of GS1A, talk on “A 
Heuristic Compiler-’ and listened 
to Professor Allen Newell, Insti­
tute Professor of Systems and 
Comunications Sciences, discuss 
"Chess-Playing Programs”.
The main purpose of the ACM 
student chapter are “to promote a 
greater interest in computing 
machinery and its design develop­
ment, construction, languages, and 
application of modern computing 
machinery; to encourage student 
research in computing and related 
fields; to provide a means of com­
munications between persons hav­
ing interest in computing machin­
ery; to provide opportunities for 
the communication of information 
about computers and computing 
from students to faculty and from 
faculty to students; and to cooper­
ate with the faculty in assisting 
students taking courses related to 
computers and computer program­
ming.”
BULLETIN 
BOARD
World Religion Series
The World Religion Series will 
feature Islam on Wednesday, 
March 14, at 4:30 in Room 45, Ski­
bo. Following the showing of the 
Lif^ Film Strip on the Moslem 
faith, Mr. Mohamed Osman of 
Egypt, Mr. Ghazi H. Sultan of 
Kuwait, and Mr. Mohamed Taw- 
fik of.the United Arab Republic, 
will share in the discussion an­
swering questions about the Mos­
lem faith.
All are welcome.to the program. 
Cafeteria style dinner will follow 
from 5:45 to 6:45 in Room 105 for 
those interested in further con­
versation with the overseas stu­
dents.
Hash and Rehash
Hash and Rehash on Tuesday, 
March 20, will feature Professor 
Norman Dawes. All are invited 
to this noontime discussion in 
Room 105 Skibo, from 12:30 to 
1:20, sponsored by the YMCA and 
the YWCA. Bring trays or sack 
lunches. Dr. Dawes returned a
year ago from an eighteen months 
teaching experience in India un­
der the Fulbright Foundation, and 
will share some of his experiences 
with time for questions and con­
versation about them.
WRCT
This Sunday night at eleven 
o’clock WRCT will again present 
the Sunday Comedy Spectacular. 
One entire hour of original satire, 
humor, and fund featuring mem­
bers of the drama department.
Support
Campus
Chest
Surgical Steel Division of
Large Co.
Has four part time openings— 
must have car and some eve­
nings free.
Coll EM. 2-1288
• • •
The look of a Coach 
House suit is natural 
shouldered and tradi­
tional: It’s stand on 
cloth, cut and color 
will easily pass the 
purist’s scrtuiny. This 
particular Dacron and 
Wool suit is $55.00. 
Available in misted 
solid colors, muted 
glens, hairlines—one is 
bound to be just right 
for you.
The Coach House
Traditional Apparel for Men 
5823 Forbes Ave. Squirrel Hill
Open Tuesday In til 9:0*
Your Future in Electronics at Hughes
As the West’s leader in advanced electronics, Hughes is engaged in some of the most dramatic and 
critical projects ever envisioned. Challenges for your imagination and development are to be found in
such diversified programs as:
SAI & Phi MAS
Give Benefit
Carnegie Tech’s chapters of Sig­
ma Alpha Iota and Phi Mu Alpha 
Sinfonia, honorary fraternity for 
students in the music department, 
•will sponsor a benefit perform­
ance of the Concert Artists of 
Pittsburgh* Saturday, March 24, at 
1:30 p.m.
Two of the five artists sched­
uled to participate in the per­
formance are Tech graduates, 
Henry Spinelli and James Wilson. 
Henry Spinelli, pianist, has had 
extensive experience as a recital­
ist, chamber music artist, and 
music lecturer, and is now on the 
faculty of Chatham College. 
James Wilson, clarinetist, took 
graduate work at the University 
of Pittsburgh, was first clarinetist 
with the Wheeling and Orlando 
Symphonies, and has appeared 
with the Budepest String Quartet.
The other three artists on the 
program are Roger Drindall, cell­
ist; James Lumburger, vocalist, 
and Derry Deane, violinist.
Concert Artists was established 
in Pittsburgh in 1955, as a small, 
independent, educational music 
project to help young American 
musicians. This organization helps 
arrange public concerts for musi­
cians which it feels have proved 
themselves ready for public per­
formance. During the six years 
since organizing, twenty musicians, 
instrumentalists, and vocalists 
have been presented in three hun­
dred Concert Artists programs.
The organization has presented 
most of its concerts at colleges and 
universities, conservatories, and 
the Pittsburgh public school sys­
tem. A series of Video Tape for 
Educational Television is now be­
ing produced for elementary and 
secondary school.
The coming recital will be given 
tn the Recital Hall Auditorium, 
Third Presbyterian Church, 
Shadyside. Tickets may be bought 
•t Tech from Regina Titzck, MU
I
Project Surveyor (soft lunar landing) 
3-dimensional Radars 
Plasma Physics, Ion Propulsion 
Solid State Materials and Devices
Communications Satellites 
Digital Computer Systems 
Hydrospace Electronics 
Infrared
These are among the more than 500 outstanding programs now in prog­
ress at Hughes. These programs require the talents of E.£!s and Physi­
cists who desire to work with professional scientists in research, de­
velopment and manufacture.
In addition, Hughes sponsors advanced degree programs for aca­
demic growth. These programs provide for advanced degree study 
at many leading universities.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS and PHYSICISTS
B.S„ M.S. and Ph.D. Candidates 
Members of our staff will conduct
CAMPUSINTERVIEWS
March 21, 1962
Find out more about the wide ranee of 
activities, educational programs, reloca­
tion allowances and progressive benefit 
plans offered by Hughes. For interview 
appointment or informational literature 
consult your College Placement Director. 
Or write: Coliege Placement Office, 
Hughes, Culver City, California.
An equal »niployer.
Creating a new world with Electrónica 
I--------------------------------------------------->
4

---------------------------------------------------

We*M*dar, Mare* 14, MM — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Pa«e S
Student Organization Reports 
Required For Recognition
The duties of your Student Government have 
over the past four weeks been described in this 
paper. I feel that there is little which has not been 
covered by these descriptions. However, Govern­
ment began this school year amid somewhat of a 
crisis. It had become evident that although the re­
sponsibilities of Government were well defined, 
there were no mechanics by which to fulfiill these 
responsibilities. Certainly, Government has been 
in existence for several years, and it seems that 
such inadequacies would have been noticed and 
corrected long before last September.
It seems, however, that Government had de­
pended on piecemeal information obtained from 
the student organizations’ petitions for recognition; 
and last September, this type of information was 
so old that it was useless. Government found itself 
responsible for organizations which were in debt 
a total of more than twenty-one thousand dollars. 
Some organizations had ceased to function; and 
others had begun operation recently. Student Gov­
ernment, which was supposed to represent the 
student body and all student groups, did not have 
the slightest idea about who was to be represented 
and who was not. What to do about such a lack of 
information was indeed a problem.
The facts are:
1. That Student Government is responsible 
financially and otherwise for all student organiza­
tions except the various religious groups.
2. THat there is no complete list of what or­
ganizations are to be represented and there is no 
record of these organizations.
3. That the lack of control has allowed some 
organizations to get very deeply into debt.
Therefore, Student Congress has developed a 
method of reporting which will correct errors of 
the past and provide the mechanics for a strong, 
method involving the submission of periodic re­
ports from every organization regarding organiza­
tion, nature, purpose, officers, policy, and finances. 
Government feels that such information will supply 
the communication vitally needed in order for 
proper functioning.
Earlier there were listed the consequences of not 
submitting these reports. Failing to report removes 
the name of the organization from recognition 
rolls of Student Congress. That removal means: 
The administration depends upon Government to 
supply the list of student organizations. Organiza-
tions which are not named on this list are o longer 
recognized by the school; and in order to unction 
on the Tech campus, an organization must be rec­
ognized by the school. Consequently, the organiza­
tion which is not recognized by Student Govern­
ment cannot operate, cannot meet, cannot collect, 
cannot hold social functions of any nature. The 
members of organization which do function with­
out recognition must fact the disciplinary measures 
of the Student Court.
The method of reporting described above is not 
intended to restrict or to “meddle'’ in the affairs of 
“others.” Student Government exists to serve the 
student and is doing its best to function efficiently. 
Efficient functioning will be boosted terrifically 
by the communication provided by these reports.
To the best of our knowledge, the following 
listed organizations have not complied with the re­
porting requirements. Some may not have to re­
port, but this fact must be established by personal 
discussion between Government representatives and 
the heads of the organizations.
F — Financial Young
A — Activities Republicans F & A
Panel of America F & A Music r »Student Con. F & A
Pershing Rifles F & A Architecture Dept.
Mortar Board F & A stu. Con. F & A
Phi Tau Gamma F & A Rocket Guidance F & A
Scimitar F & A “c” Club F & A
Sigma Alpha Iota F & A 
F & ^ Sigma Xi F & A
Tau Beta Pi F & APhi Kappa Phi F & A Tau Sigma Delta V O L
Phi Mu Alpha F & A Omicron Nu F & A
Phi Mu Epsilon F & A Gamma Epsilon
Pi Tau Sigma F & A Tau F & A
Pi Delta Epsilon F & A A. I. A. F & A
Society of Auto. A. I. Ch. E. F & A
Engineers F & A Artist’s Guild F & A
Judo Club F & A A. S. M. E, F & A
Science Club F & A A. S. S. A. F & A
Secretarial Club F & A I. A. S. F & A
Vets Club F & A A. M. F & A
Young Democrats F & A Railroad Club F & A
Please cooperate to make your Government
more effective. Complete and willing support
through immediate reporting is a great step in the
right direction. The TWO forms are available in
Dr. Strick’s office. They must be returned to Dr.
Stride’s offive immediately. Deadlines are long past.
Omicron Delta 
Kappa
S. GREEN
All Watches Electronically Timed
EXPERT WATCH AND 
JEWELRY REPAIRS 
123 Oakland Ave. MU 1-6109
TONY'S BARBER SHOP
U SPECIALIZING IN ALL KINDS Or HAIRCUTS
? NO WAITING EXPERT BARBERS 2
? 19ft Bonqrct St. (Near Corner Forbe* and Bouquet)
$ New Hours: 8 A.M. to 8 P.M. Daily MU. 2-9989
Q
IKORSKY 
AIRCRAFT
n > ««wo
I THURSDAY
MARCH 29
Tor Shots S«« . . .WALLY'S
SHOE STORE
OFTECH HNLGH YAs TGt heW ’LTGt 
U. S. KEDS 
lFaTFt heW drLaHNGiT HNLGH
3612 FORBES AYE. (Opposite Strand Theater)
Open Friday Night ’till t P.M.
On Campuswith Max Shujman
(Author of “Rally Round The Flag, Boys", “The Many 
Loves of Dobie Gillis", etc.)
THE MANY LOVES OF 
THORWALD DOCKSTADER
When Thorwald Dockstader—sophomore, epicure, and sports­
man-first took up smoking, he did not simply choose the first 
brand of cigarettes that came to hand. He did what any 
sophomore, epicure, and sportsman would do: he sampled sev­
eral brands until he found the very best—a mild, rich, flavorful 
smoke—an endless source of comfort and satisfaction—a smoke 
that never palled, never failed to please—a smoke that age 
could not wither nor custom stale—a filter cigarette with aa 
unfiltered taste—Marlboro, of course!
Similarly, when Thorwald took up girls, he did not,simply 
select the first one who came along. He sampled. First he 
dated an English literature major named Elizal>eth Barrett 
Schwartz, a wisp of a girl with large, luminous eyes and a soul 
that shimmered with a pale, unearthly beauty. Trippingly, 
trippingly, she walked with Thorwald ujw>n the beach and sat 
with him behind a windward dune and listened to a conch shell 
and sighed sweetly and took out a little, gold pencil and a little 
morocco notebook and wrote a little poem:
O FTEE ETC HNLG YAC sALtCh
O FTEE eC W ’tCWlCth
I FTEE aCCE YAC sCL LGdC more,
rLHG’TGi LG ln aClHtv
Thorwald’s second r,<te was with a physical education major
named Peaches Glendower, a broth of a girl with a ready smile 
and a size 18 neck. She took Thorwald down to the cinder track 
where they did 100 laps to open the pores. Then they played 
four games of squash, six' sets of tennis, 3<> holes of golf, nine 
innings of one o’cat, six chukkers of lacrosse, and a mile and a 
quarter of leapfrog. Then they went ten rounds with eight 
ounce gloves and had heaping bowls of whey and exchanged a 
firm handshake and went home to their respective whirlj>ool 
baths.
Thorwald’s final date was with a golden-haired, creamy- 
browed, green-eyed, red-lipped, full-calved girl named Totsi 
Sigafoos. Totsi was not majoring in anything. As she often said, 
“(iee whillikers, what’s college for anyhow—to fill your head 
full of iekv old facts, or to discover the shining essence that is 
YOU?”
Totsi started the evening with Thorwald at a luxurious 
restaurant where she consumed her own weight in Cornish rock 
hen. From there they went to a deluxe movie palace where 
Totsi had popcorn with butter. Then she had a hag of chocolate 
covered raisins—also with butter. Then they went to a costly 
ballroom and did the Twist till dawn, tipping the band every 
eight bars. Then they went to a Chinese restaurant where 
Totsi, unable to translate the menu, solved her problem by 
ordering one of everything. Then Thorwald took her to the 
women's dorm, boosted her in the window, ami went downtowu 
to wait for the employment office to ojten.
While waiting, Thorwald thought over all of his girls and 
came to a sensible decision. “I think,” he said to himself, “that 
I will stick with Marlboros. I am not rich enough for girls."
I Ittttt Th Hhula
MarUtoro, however, in rich enough for anybody. It take• 
mighty good ma kin'» to give you untiitered tante in a Utter 
cigarette. Thai’s the flaror you get in the famous Marlboro 
recipe from Richmond, Virginia, i'ou get a lot to like.

---------------------------------------------------

r»£t 4 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, March 14. 1962
Guest GWnvAsnhc
More Fizzles Than Fermis
“Institutions such as Carnegie Tech should use 
their relatively expensive laboratory facilities for 
training: more students at junior, senior, and gradu­
ate levels, relying on junior colleges, community 
colleges, and liberal arts colleges for instruction at 
the freshman and sophomore levels,” quoted Presi­
dent Warner four years ago. The plan, he noted, 
seemed to have “‘considerable merit.”
In 1961 President Warner was quoted as saying, 
“But its the long range race that I’m concerned 
about, I'm not much worried about the number of 
scientists and engineers the Russians are turning 
out. It’s the quality that counts ... a hundred 
ordinary guys can’t do what one great mind can 
do. You wouldn’t swap a Fermi for a hundred or­
dinary guys.”
How many potential Fermi's are Tech students? 
This is an important question because we c&nnot 
fool ourselves into thinking our students are any 
better than the average or below average student 
at Cal Tech or MIT. We must recognize very real­
istically that Fermi, VonBraum, Pauling, and Teller 
were not products of American technical schools, 
and that they were unique minds in unique cul­
tures.
An engineering dean quizically commented two 
W’eeks ago that he would like to know how a sense 
of purpose could be instilled in the Tech engineer. 
Well, you do not put it in him after he comes—he 
must have it when he arrives! How is this done? A 
lesson may be close at hand, since Cal Tech spends 
four times as much money recruiting students as 
Carnegie Tech. The Fermi’s must be found or some 
other school will “buy” them first.
Yet this is not the real difficulty—Carnegie Tech 
has false gods. A conservative attitude restrains 
Carnegie Tech from becoming a great university. 
For example, in the last five years, recall the de­
velopment program which amounts to 23 million 
dollars. This at a time when MIT had a develop­
ment fund beginning at 66 million dollars.
You say we are not a Cal Tech or MIT—we have 
a fine arts college, etc. But why are we called an 
institute of technology, why do we compare our­
selves with technical institutes when we want to 
be a university, a graduate university, and a pro­
fessional school? If we are a university we must 
have a college of the arts and science, if we are a 
graduate university we must, as our continental 
predecessors, relegate preparatory education to 
lower schools and cease being a parent to every 
adolescent who “gets in.” If we want to be a pro­
fessional school we have to stop dividing our re­
sponsibilities between professional education and
preparatory education.
Dr. Warner states that “the philosophy of good 
higher education is almost as old as the hills and 
has been expressed over and over again by great 
scholar-teachers both before and after Cardinal 
Nedman.” Yet, Cardinal Newman in the Idea of a 
University says, “The nature of the case and the 
history of philosophy combine to recommend to us 
this division of intellectual labor between acad­
emies (research universities) and universities. To 
discover and to teach are distinct functions; they 
are also distinct gifts, and are not commonly found 
in the same person.”
Yet ,the Dean of Engineering and Science, Dean 
Teare quoted in a recent paper, “He who learns 
from one occupied in learning drinks of a running 
stream, he who learns from one who has learned 
all he is to teach, drinks the green mantle of the 
stagnant pool.”
Earl McGrath of the Institute of Higher Edu­
cation, Columbia, concludes that “The purposes of 
advanced graduate study and those of undergradu­
ate liberal education are incompatible and to some 
degree mutually detrimental.”
Where lies the contradiction or is there none? 
There cannot be one, For Carnegie University must 
make a radical assertion of its prestige as a uni­
versity, its status as a graduate university, and its 
leadership as a professional college.
Carnegie’s decision of this decade will be based 
primarily on the problem noted in President War­
ner’s statement above. Carnegie Tech today is ed­
ucating the engineer for “oblivion” as an engineer. 
And Carnegie Tech will continue to educate Tech­
nical engineers instead of preparing professional 
engineers for the next century.
The decision must also be based on the fact that, 
as Dr. Warner said, “in a free society professional 
men and women have an obligation to serve society 
in a broader sense than merely serving their cli­
ents and employers with technical competence. 
Each of you—doctor, lawyer, scientist, engineers, 
minister, etc—has the added obligation to accept 
full responsibility as a citizen of a community, a 
state, a nation, and the free world.” The profes­
sions of medicine and law only accept a man in a 
professional school after he has a previous degree.
Tech produces more fizzles than Fermis—and 
will continue to do so until such time as the faculty 
and administration accept their responsibilities as 
professional educators and radically change our 
“university” to meet the standards of the next cen­
tury.
Paul B. Farrell, Jr. 
Reader's Write
Pinkertons
CURTAIN GOING UP! I'".<a'",>".s
By Joey Allen
A THRILLER
The Shadyside Theatre now boasts an English film 
which has for its main ingredients blackmail, homosexuality 
and great amounts of suspense. VICTIM is the story of a 
young boy (beautifully played by Peter McEnergy) who is 
arrested for stealing monew vhich he is using to pay a 
blackmailer. Rather than tell the police why and who is 
getting the money, he hangs himself. He is very much in 
love with a successful, married lawyer and does not want 
the barrister to be involved in a scandal. Obviously, the 
hanging is in vain for Dirk Bogarde as the lawyer does 
become involved and sets out to find the blackmailer and 
have him imprisoned at the risk of losing his wife and 
career.
Because the picture is primarily one of tension and sus­
pense, rather than the psycho-therapeutic aspects of homo­
sexuality, it is more than successful. The “perversion” is not 
condoned; the script merely points out that if English law 
call homosexuality a punishable crime, blackmailers are 
being invited to seek out victims!
Bogarde is effective as Farr, the lawyer. He has one very 
moving scene in which he has to explain to his wife (Sylvia 
Syns) his connection with the dead boy.
Unfortunately, too much of the script calls for the usual 
melodramtics such as whispered conversations, hidden notes, 
telegrams and photographs which tend to make the audience 
be mystified at first and "then annoyed when it continues 
throughout the film.
At any rate, VICTIM is worth everyone’s attention. It 
attacks a new subject in a commercial manner, but does not 
flinch. The acting, direction and script are all strong and 
exciting.
End Cheating?
Editor, the Tartan:
I and several of my fellow 
students have followed your past 
articles concerning cheating in 
this institution. Lately I have 
noticed certain uniformed mem­
bers of the Pinkerton Detective 
Agency around the campus? I 
wonder, is there any connection?
Jack Barengoltz 
Physics ’65
Editor’s Note:
No, the- TARTAN did not 
not hire those guards you see! 
But perhaps your note should 
serve as a warning to library 
book stealers as well as to 
cheaters!
GIVE 
TO 
CAMPUS 
CHEST
Looking Forward
The United States 
of the Atlantic
By Allan J. Topol
The United States’ course in world politics is limited by two 
main factors. The first of these is that we are a part of the free 
states of the western world which the Soviet Union is detennined 
to conquer. The nature of the Soviet aggression is economic as well 
as political, and it stems from a belief that history predicts their 
victory. Thus our own self-preservation is of paramount importance.
Second, as President Kennedy pointed out last spring in a speech 
at Chapel Hill, N. C., there is no reason to assume that we will neces­
sarily attain total victory. There is nothing inherent in a demo­
cratic form of government to secure its survival. The victory of 
democracy depends solely upon the efforts we employ to achieve 
this victory.
The obvious question following from these two is: what can we 
do to secure our own survival? We have a choice of either throwing 
our hands up in .defeat because we feel the situation is so utterly 
complex and hopeless or we can try to find a solution. Because I 
feel very strongly that we must try to do something, I submit the 
following proposal to you which may in fact represent one possible 
solution.
The U. S. government, employing existing economic and politi­
cal alliances as a starting point, should take the lead in a plan t«^ 
form a United States of the Atlantic. The U.S.O.A. would be a con­
federation of western states on both sides of the Atlantic for pur­
poses of securing greater political security and economic stability 
of these states.
The degree of sovereignity which any one state would be forced 
to surrender would depend upon the nature of the Confederation. 
Yet it should be remembered that the U.S. has yielded a measure of 
sovereignity with each alliance we have enterd.
Let me now turn to the advantages accruing from such a Con­
federation. In the political sector it seems obvious that there is an 
increased measure of strength in a unified defense. The Soviet target 
for eventual conquest is not the U. S. alone but its allies as well. It 
is our common democratic and republican institutions which are I 
being threatened. It is with these nations that we must stand. When 1 
the U. S., Britain and France all take different stands on an issue, I 
how can the free world hope to succeed?
Second, the USOA might in fact reduce the threat of nuclear f 
wrar hovering over our world. The formation of a western confedera- | 
tion would result in a polarity of political units so large and power- | 
ful that one would dare not attack the other. Moreover, disarma- j 
ment could be more easily negotiated by two groups rather than by*J 
four or five.
In the economic sector, the benefit to the western world is that 
the two large western economic blocs — the U. S. and the Com­
mon Market — will no longer be engaged in an economic competi­
tion from which only the Communist world has something to gain.
It will permit a better use of resources among the several states.
Second, consider the economic benefits to the U. S. At present, 
western Europe has racked up an annual export trade of 50 billion 
dollars. Ours is only 20 billion. A confederation with common trade 
agreements would reduce this disparity.
In order that my proposal should not seem to be unrealistic, 
let me suggest the following long range plan of U. S. action. First 
the U. S. Congress should pass President Kennedy’s new Reciprocal 
Trade Agreements Act by which the U. S. will co-operate with the 
Common Market. Second, the U. S. should join the Common Market. 
Third, within the structures of NATO and the Common Market the 
U. S. should take the lead in forming a union of the states of the 
Atlantic.
^CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Offices: Skibo, Room 50, Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Office 
phone, MU. 2-4557; Executive Editor, MU. 1-6550; Business Manager, 
MU. 1-2990 and MU. 2-9076; Advertising Manager, MU. 3-0460. Pub­
lished weekly during the school year except holidays and examination 
periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pgh. 13.
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh. Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising. Inc.
Annual Subscription Rate- $2 00
Editor-in-Chief..............................Sally Ganong Farrell
Executive Editor ...........................................Allan Kullen
Associate Editor ............................Martin Ackermann
Business Manager ..........................;.................Phil Chau
Advertising Manager..........................................Phil Chau
News Editor ..................................................Elaine Grumer
Features Editor ...............................................Jan Geisler
Sports Editor..................................................... John Blue
Layout Editor .................................................Fritz Klinke
Copy Editor ......................................................Carol Hosken
Secretarial Editor.........................................Pattie Michael
Circulation Editor .........................................Anne Moser
Photography Editor...................................Gerald Skalka
Assistant News Editor............................Colin Jones
News Staff: Mike Nelson. Sandy Klein. Dorl.s Bell. B. J. Zimmewicz, Mark Appel-
baum. Mary Ferguson. Jay Ellen Lapidus, Paul Carnahan. Joyce Holy, Kris Kelman,
Marty Moore. Margie Park, Fay Landau. Gladys Stalinsky
Features Staff: Margie Park. Marney Gilboy, Betsy Shepler, Sondra Perellis, Marlene 
Witman, Sandy Lancaster, Jan Engleman, Andrea Nether, Marion Mulligan, Mary 
Dunning. Karen Smith. Irene Grandberg. Cathy O'Dea.
Business and Advertising Staff: Anne Moser. Phil Chau, Charles HoFook. Larry 
GafTin, Bill Froelich. Ellie Wiseman, Allan Pollock. Jane Klein. Miron Straff.
Circulation Staff: Mike Greenawalt, George Kahl, Tom Johnson. Ginny Uliss.
Secretarial Staff: Mary Breitenstein. B. J. Klmmewlcz, Miriam Gille.spie. Pat Boggs 
Copy Staff: Margie Park. Pat Michael. Lynn Pasternak, Gale Newcomb, Georgia
White. Judy Denberg, Miriam Gillespie. Barry Shane.
Layout Staff: Richard Straus, Alan Pollock, Nanc*' Caxuexon, Mike McCoy.\

---------------------------------------------------

Learning never stops for engineers at Western Electric
There’s no place at Western Electric for engi­
neers who feel that college diplomas signify 
the end of their education. However, if a man 
can meet our quality standards and feels that 
he is really just beginning to learn ... and if he 
is ready to launch his career where learning is 
an important part of the job and where gradu- 
ate-level training on and off the job is encour­
aged — we want and need him.
At Western Electric, in addition to the nor­
mal learning-while-doing, engineers are en­
couraged to move ahead in their fields by sever­
al types of educational programs. Western 
maintains its own full-time graduate engineer­
ing training program, seven formal manage­
ment courses, and a tuition refund plan for 
out-of-hours college study.
This learning atmosphere is just one reason 
why a career at Western Electric is so stimu­
lating. Of equal importance, however, is the 
nature of the work we do. Our new engineers 
are taking part in projects that implement the 
whole art of modern telephony, from high­
speed sound transmission and solar cells to 
electronic telephone offices and computer-con­
trolled production techniques.
Should you join us now, you will be coming
to Western Electric at one of the best times in 
the company’s history. In the management 
area alone, several thousand supervisory jobs 
are expected to open up to W.E. people within 
the next 10 years. And our work of building 
communications equipment and systems be­
comes increasingly challenging and important 
as the communications needs of our nation and 
the world continue to increase.
Challenging opportunities exist now at Western 
Electric for electrical, mechanical, industrial, and chemi­
cal engineers, as well as physical science, liberal arts, 
and business majors. All qualified applicants will re­
ceive careful consideration for employment without 
regard to race, creed, color or national origin. For mor* 
information about Western Electric, write College Rela­
tions, Western Electric Company, Room 6206, 222 
Broadway, New York 38, New York. And be sure te 
arrange for a Western Electric interview when our 
college representatives visit your campus.
principal manufacturing locations at Chicago, IM.; Kearny, N. J.: Baltimore, Md.; Indianapo'.is. Ind.; Allentown and Laureldale Pa < 
Winston-Salem, N. C.*; Buffalo, N. Y.: North Andover, Mass.; Omaha, Neb.; Kansas City, Mo.; Columbus, Ohio; Oklahoma City Okla. 
Engineering Research Center, Princeton, N. J. Teletype Corporation, Skokie, III., and Little Rock, Ark Also Western Electric distri­
bution centers in 33 cities and installation headquarters in 16 cities. General headquarters: 195 Broadway, New York 7 N. T.
Wednesday, March 14, 1962 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Page 5
'Editorial Feature
University Society Must 
Cooperate With Divisions
In every university there is a triple division of authority 
and responsibility among the administration, faculty, and stu­
dent body. Obviously, there are many overlaps of authority 
and a clear-cut separation is not always present. The primary 
¿concern of every university society then is to institute a 
workable interchange of responsibility which is acceptable 
to all concerned.
What areas would present problems with respect to al­
lotment of authority?
Disciplinary action taken against students, for example, 
should be instituted by the proper student judicial organiza­
tion and then, if the matter is of sufficient, predetermined im­
portance, the disciplinary board of the university might re­
view the case. Action taken by the administrative authority 
^should be based, not on the question of whether or not cer­
tain feelings have been ruffled, but on the jurisprudence dem­
onstrated by the court involved in the decision.
Communication of information to the general student 
body is absolutely essential if the students are to fulfill the 
trust placed in them. Percentage of space given in the various 
media should be determined by the information to both stu­
dents and faculty. Moreover, the reports presented to the stu­
dent body should be complete and unadulterated by censor­
ship.
If there is to exist on a campus a student governmental or­
ganization, it should, and must, if it is to validate its ex­
istence receive, without exception, the full co-operation of 
the administration and all student groups within its sphere 
of influence in every function. A student organization should 
not be permitted to set itself above the student government 
from which it derives its very existence, nor should a con­
scientious administration become obsessed with its own wis­
dom to the extent that it ignores the voice of the student 
body as presented by their governmental representatives.
For a campus society to function as an integarted whole 
I for all its members, a spirit of co-operation and trust must ex­
ist among its basic divisions as embodied in the faculty, ad­
ministration, and student body. Even more important than 
this, however, is a mutual respect of the interests, and for 
the intelligence of the groups involved, in addition to con­
sideration of what will be beneficial, not only to each organ, 
but to the body as a whole.
Carnegie Tech is a university society.
Mark Appelbaum 
Tom Ference
This Week In Pittsburgh
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 14
Carnegie Music Hall, 8:30 p.m., Music Guild of Pittsburgh pre­
sents “The Passion According to St. John” — Bach; Robert 
Shaw Chorale and Orchestra 
THURSDAY, MARCH 15
Porter Hall Room 100, Film Arts Society presents “She Done 
Him Wrong”
Carnegie Music Hall, 8:15 p.m., the Academy of Arts and Sci­
ences presents “The Splendors of Persia,” Clifford J. Kamen 
FRIDAY, MARCH 16
Syria Mosque, 8:40 p.m., Pittsburgh Symphony conducted by 
Werner Torkanowsky, with Daniel Barenboim, pianist 
Carnegie Music Hall. 8:00 p.m., C.I.T. Greek Sing 
SATURDAY, MARCH 17
Carnegie Music Hall, 8:30 p.m., The Music Guild of Pittsburgh 
presents the “Jose Limon Dance Company”
SUNDAY, MARCH 18
Syria Mosque, 3:10 p.m., Pittsburgh Symphony 
Carnegie Music Hall, 8:15 p.m., C.I.T. Student Symphony 
Orchestra (free)
TUESDAY, MARCH 20
Carnegie Music Hall, 2:00, 6:30, 8:30 p.m., Carnegie Institute 
Society presents “Russia” — Hal Linker 
CONTINUING EVENTS
Nixon, “West Side Story” (movie)
Playhouse, “Macbeth” (closes April 15)
Carnegie Tech, “Winter’s Tale” (closes March 16)
HELP FILL CAMPUS CHEST
Spending Reaches 
Unbelievable Peak
Government spending in the
United States has grown so vast 
that in a 15-month period it would 
be sufficient to buy up everything 
that Soviet Russia produced in 
one year, including financing the 
Russian armer forces and all mis­
sile work, according to the Cham­
ber of Commerce of the United 
States.
In 1960, federal, state, and local 
governments in this country spent 
$190 billion. The federal govern­
ment alone accounted for $130 bil­
lion.
This $190 billion total equals 80 
per cent of the value of all the 
$230 billion in goods and services 
produced in all of Russia that year 
(the Russian Gross National Prod­
uct).
The large size of government 
spending in this country is not 
generally known. For one thing, 
most people consider that the fed­
eral budget reveals all the fed­
eral spending. It does not. Omit­
ted are tens of billions spent on 
highways, Social Security, and 
other programs not included in 
the budget.
The American governments 
were cradled on the concept of 
limited government. But they now 
appear to spend close to the full 
means of Communist Russia.
BETWEEN CLASSES...
get that refreshing new feeling 
with Coke!
Bnttlorf .inHor ..«thnrlfv nf QUAKER STATE COCA-COLABottled under authority of * BOTTLING COMPANY
Tl* Coca-Cola Company fcj PltUburfh, Pennsylvania

---------------------------------------------------

Pace ( — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN - Wednesd»?, March 14, tM2
He's upset because he was made 
the butt of a student joke”
f “They say he has 
the largest book 
collection on campus.
MMCC Re-educate Alumnae
For Second Career Cycle
Stauffaeher 
Joins Panel
Jack W. Stauffaeher, assistant 
professor of graphic arts has been 
appointed to a three man panel 
of judges in the competition for 
graphic excellence sponsored by 
the Fox River Paper Corporation.
The competition is for letter­
heads and the awards are based 
on excellence of graphic arts. 
Those specific phases included in 
the awards are layout and design, 
continues Dean Steinberg. | lettering and typography, or excel­
lence of presswork.
"As an alumna, who has for 
some time been feeling a need 
and a desire for something, I be­
lieve that this questionnaire points 
the way to the beginning of that 
something. I feel that the fact that 
I was able to return to teaching 
with a space of twenty-five years 
between my first and second years 
speaks well for my teaching train­
ing courses and I would welcome 
an opportunity for further study 
in the near future.”
This thought, given by an alum­
na of Margaret Morrison Carnegie 
College, in a recent survey con­
ducted by the school, is indica­
tive of the feeling of many alum­
nae of women’s colleges through­
out the country. For this reason, 
Margaret Morrison Carnegie Col­
lege is about to launch a com­
plete program of re-education for 
its alumnae.
“A women’s education,” says 
Erwin R. Steinberg, dean of the 
college, “must provide a funda­
mental education and then make 
provision for the graduate to re­
train so that she can put her edu­
cation to use twenty-five years 
later. A woman will use her col­
lege education for twenty-five 
years,“
“but she may not start using it 
seriously until about twenty-five 
years after graduation.”
Response Typical
In order to find out how real 
the need for re-education is, Mar­
garet Morrison, last year, began 
a survey of its alumnae. The re­
sponse given above is typical of 
those received from practically all 
of the 750 women who responded.
The information gathered by 
the survey re-enforces other sta­
tistical studies w7hich say a wom­
an graduates from college at the 
age of twenty-one or twenty-two, 
works two or three years during 
which time she gets married, then 
stays at home raising her family 
until she is between the ages of 
forty and forty-five. At that age 
she begins what is becoming gen­
erally known as her second career 
cycle. -
To bridge this educational gap 
between past preparations and 
current needs, the alumna is turn­
ing naturally to her own under­
graduate college with the result 
that the college is now faced with 
the challenge of expanding its ed­
ucational contributions to the 
community and renewing ties with 
its own undergraduates during 
later stages of their professional 
and intellectual growth.
Majority for Second Career
The study conducted by Mar­
garet Morrison shows an over­
whelming demand for such a pro­
gram. Eighty-five per cent of the 
respondees said they had worked 
for one or more years immedi­
ately following graduation. Forty 
per cent were working at the time 
the questionnaire was sent, and 
over fifty per cent of those not 
working said they intended to re­
turn to their careers in the near 
future.- Summarized, this means 
that over seventy per cent of the 
respondees were presently in or 
about to enter their second career
The potential impact of such a 
situation on employment in fields 
where there is a growing need for 
trained women is great. These 
serious personnel shortages which 
exist in many professions staffed 
largely by women will in the fu­
ture be gradually remedied by in 
creasingly attractive offers to 
women who qualify themselves to 
return to work after they have 
raised their family. To help these 
women become more qualified 
professionally and to grow intel­
lectually is the goal of Margaret 
Morrison's new program, to be 
started actively next fall.
Desire Further Schooling
While practically all of the 
•women responding to the survey 
felt this need for some sort of 
further education, 
thirds said they w 
interested in taking
al knowledge.
3. To enjoy enhanced intellect­
ual and cultural growth.
“While I have thought for some 
time that the need for such a pro­
gram is pressing,” Steinberg said, 
“our recent survey has strength­
ened my opinion. We hope, this 
fall, to have in Margaret Morri­
son, alumnae in all the depart­
ments of the college. This will not 
be a smorgasbord of adult educa­
tion but a serious program of pro­
fessional preparation. The alum­
nae,” concludes the dean, “will be 
placed in regular classrooms with 
undergraduate women.
about two- 
re genuinely 
ome courses. 
; for this de- 
to college were:
¦e eroded skills, 
re fresh profession-
U’ Of Mexico Sets Summer Sessions
The 1962 Summer Session at 
the National University of Mex­
ico, Mexico City, will be June 25 
through August 10, Dr. Osmond 
R. Hull, Director of the Univer­
sity Study Tour to Mexico, an­
nounced recently.
The Summer Session offers stu­
dents and teachers a 7 week 
summer of foreign travel’ and 
study. Internationally renowned, 
the University of Mexico offers 
a wide variety of unusual and 
standard courses taught in Span­
ish or English for extra credits 
or teacher in-service require­
ments transferable to U.S. schools.
Members will also experience 
over 16 planned activities includ­
ing wreekend sightseeing trips, so­
cial functions, bullfights, pyramid 
and art field trips. In addition, 
time is alloted for an extension 
weekend trip to Acapulco.
Full particulars for the Summer 
Session Program may be obtained 
by writing for the 20 page Bul­
letin and application forms to Dr. 
Osmond R. Hull, Director, Uni­
versity Study Tour to Mexico, 
703 Market Stret, San Francisco 
3, California.
Summer Session Program to University of Mexico, Mexico^ 
City, is held on most beautiful campus in the world, includes 
7 weeks of Travel, Study & Fun.
LUCKY STRIKE
presents:
co,ugmoffpjcTHE FACULTY TEA
THE PROFESSORIAL IMAGE. It used to be that professors, as soon as they were 
28, took on a father image—rumpled tweeds, tousled hair, pipe. But these days, 
the truly “in” professor has the “buddy” look — Ivy suit, crew cut, Lucky Strikes. 
It seems that students learn more eagerly from someone with whom they can 
identify. Alert teachers quickly pounce on the fact that college students smoke 
more Luckies than any other regular. Have you pounced on the fact yet?
CARNEG IS TUCMaGr and get some taste for a change!
©4. T. C#.,Product of <T/& j/ntvuewi - t%&££& is our middle name

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, March 14, J962 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Pare T
Campus Chest Contributions Aid 
Beneficial Works;Foreign Students
.
The dollars you give to the 
Campus Chest will go to the fol­
lowing agencies:
World University Service
Our help will aid student refu­
gees in the United States, Greece, 
France, and Germany. It will pro­
vide medical care for students in 
many nations as wel as contribute 
to housing, provide books and 
equipment to university centers 
the world over, and establish 
scholarship and loan funds for 
worthy students in Greece, Africa 
Egypt, India, Pakistan, and Japan.
WUS, itself, resettles exiled 
students and aids refugees, sup­
plies medicines and X-ray equip­
ment, trains students for part-time 
jobs, builds dorms and student 
centers, equips clasrooms, librar­
ies, and labs, constructs TB sani­
tariums, grants scholarships and 
loans, operates student health 
centers, and sponsors university 
affiliations and international con­
tact.
The United Nation’s 
Children’s Fund
UNICEF is the world's largest 
international organization entirely 
devoted to the health and welfare 
of children and mothers. Of the 
world’s one billion children, 750 
million live in areas where the 
majority lack the barest medical 
essentials and are fed the equival­
ent of a school lunch every two 
days. Mass disease knows no 
boundaries and must be fought 
wherever it prevails. Thus 
UNICEF cooperates with the 
World Health Organization, the 
Food and Agriculture Organiza­
tion, and other UN agencies to 
combat disease and malnutrition 
in underdeveloped areas where 
illness and hunger are taken for 
granted.
UNICEF helps these countries to 
fight TB, treat yaws, a crippling 
tropical disease, eradicate malaria, 
control leprosy, combat blindness, 
eliminate malnutrition, and pro­
duce badly needed vaccine. These 
are immediate goals to attack and 
eliminate disease, suffering, and 
poverty. The ultimate goals of 
UNICEF are to improve the health 
standards of a community, to con­
tinue health benefits into later 
life, and to strengthen the publie 
health services in Underdeveloped 
countries.
United Fund of Allegheny County
The United Fund as an iificient 
consolidated fund-raising pro­
gram, includes among its numer­
ous participating agencies, the 
following: The Community Chest 
of Allegheny County, The Ameri­
can Red Cross, Arthritis and 
Rheumatism Foundation, Multiple 
Sclerosis Society, United Cerebral 
Palsy Association, United Services 
Organizations (USO), The Salva­
tion Army, and The Health Re­
search and Services Foundation.
The United Fund combines the 
fund-raising efforts of major local 
and national health, welfare, and 
character-building agencies into 
one appeal. Each year more than 
115 United Fund services benefit 
nearly 500,000 people through 
their programs.
National Scholarship Services and 
Fund for Negro Students
NSSFNS is an independent 
agency, established to increase 
higher education opportunities for 
qualified Negro students in inter­
racial colleges in this country.
It gives counseling and college 
advisory services to thousands of 
students each year through their 
high schools and their guidance 
counselors. It offers supplemen­
tary scholarship help to its suc­
cessful advisees who have already 
been awarded scholarships insuf­
ficient to meet their financial 
ne«ds. It maintains a close work­
ing relationship with several 
thousand high schools and with 
several hundred colleges to in­
crease the contact between quali- 
tied Negro students and the differ­
ent colleges.
The latest NSSFNS .sponsored 
activity is Community Talent 
Search. The purpose of this pro­
gram ^ is to reach students of all 
deprived groups, regardless of 
race, in their formative years and 
to offer them special guidance and 
remedial services in accordance 
with their special needs.
NSSFNS is supported mainly by 
foundation grants, by student 
funds from college and school 
campus chest drives and by a few 
individual friends.
American Cancer Society
The society is a voluntary na­
tional health agency engaged in a 
comprehensive program of cancer 
research, education of the public, 
and service for the control and 
ultimate conquest of this disease.
One of the chief purposes of the 
Society is to motivate people to 
act for their own protection and 
well-being. They hope to bring 
about, through public education, 
an objective and realistic attitude 
toward cancer which will save 
more lives. The Society distributes 
films, and literature to profession­
al and lay people and. also uses 
radio, TV, and newspapers to edu­
cate the public.
Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh
The Children’s Hospital, which
serves the tri-state area, is a na­
tionally recognized medical center 
specializing in the care of children 
and their diseases. The role of the 
hospital in saving lives has been 
added to by an even greater vis- 
ion-the return of the physically 
abnormal child to normal life. The 
money received from Campus 
Chest goes into their maintenance 
fund which is used to pay for the 
free work of the hospital.
Recording for the Blind
Recording for the Blind, Inc, is 
a national, nonprofit organization 
which records textbooks and edu­
cational material, free of charge, 
for any blind student or blind 
adult seeking an education. Cur­
rently it is serving about 1400 
people, of whom about 700 are 
college students.
It is founded on the belief that 
a blind person, with the proper 
education, can become economi­
cally independent and a produc­
tive member of the community, It
is supported entirely by gifts from 
individuals and foundations.
Special Tech Project 
Through the contribution envel­
opes, students are given the op­
portunity to determine in what 
way a percentage of the total 
Chest may be used. This year 10% 
of the collections will be applied 
to a scholarship for a foreigo 
student on Tech’s campus.
The Carnegie TARTAN wel­
comes letters from readers pre- 
senting their views and news. 
All letters must be signed with 
the name and address of the 
writer, but a name may be unth- 
held at the writers request. If 
possible, letters should be type­
written and should be as brief at 
possible. All letters are subject 
to condensation and editing. Let­
ters containing obvious misstate­
ments or lacking in good taste 
will not be printed. Letters must 
reach the TARTAN Office by 
2:00 p.m. Sunday to be included 
in the following Wednesday’s 
paper.
EXCITING, PROFITABLE 
“CREDIT-ABLE” SUMMERS
TOUKS - JOBS - COURSES
Ho Charge lor Our Services
EVERYWHERE IN THE WORLD
Pittsburgh International Tra
Call EX. 1-1040
vel
It's a big responsibility. And it requires the finest young 
scientific and engineering minds this country has to 
offer. Many, many minds that work as one. Minds such 
as yours, perhaps. Won’t you come in and talk to us? If 
you have a mind to?
Minds are different, too. You can’t ink them and 
roll them and press them on hard-finished white 
paper. But you can test them, mold them, nurture 
them, shape them, stretch them, excite them.
And challenge them. At Cal Tech's Jet Propulsion 
Laboratory, that's all we do. The products of these 
minds are spacecraft and instruments that will explore 
the Moon and planets and communication systems to 
probe outer space.
On campus interviews:
Rch 21,hc9c6n ,eehcq,ul» ichh p6q6co6 qyu.cn6p,lcyu Hyp 6DehyYD6ul iclty1l p6s,pn ly p,q6« qp66n S9 9lclhy9h,9 ypcscu ( U« rw qclcc6u.tce 9l q1pp6ul xClcpcljp Cl6cp»»Mm p621cp6n«
JET PROPULSION LABORATORY
^gWW SRM EdS­G bda­G« fRrRbGNR« CRTavSdNaR
Opemedfey Calitom* InstUut* »1 T«chiW<o«r for tt>» *«>o>'tuue* & Sptc« CARARNCAN
March 26 — Contact University 
Placement Office for appointment

---------------------------------------------------

RCIa­RIGb CARdCSRT 
i aNNGd vaTIGd
fUdG xAaIG 
SUIGd vaTIGd
Tartan Announces Formation 
Editorial Board & Columnists
Pag« 9 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, March 14, 1962
Departing somewhat from past 
traditions, the Tartan is announc­
ing the formation of an Editorial 
Board and a group of Columnists 
both of which are open to inter­
ested students.
The Editorial Board will con­
sist of three to five students who 
are aw'are of and interested in 
writing about various aspects of 
our campus community from an 
editorial standpoint. The Board 
will work closely with the Editor- 
in-Chief in formulating ed’torial 
policy and will work together to 
provide varied and simulating 
editorial material for Tartan 
readers.
The group of columnists will 
consist of junior or senior students 
who have areas of special interest 
on which they would like to base 
a weekly or bi-weekly column. 
Columns now in existence are 
“Curtain Going Up!” a drama 
column written anonymously ev­
ery year by a drama student, and ] 
“Looking Forward” a political j 
column instituted this semester by ! 
A1 Topol, but which will be con­
tinued next year by another stu- j 
dent with interest and knowledge 
in this area.
Other areas which could fur­
nish topics for special columns in­
clude cultural events of the area, 
reviews and/or discussion of com­
ing events music and musical 
events; campus social events; cam­
pus “chapter”; science reviews of 
recent discoveries and current 
events; economics and business. 
The list is endless and depends 
only on personal interest and 
knowledge of the writers.
Any student interested in writ­
ing as member of the Editorial 
Board or as a Columnist contact 
Sally Farrell, the Tartan, in care 
of Dr. Strick’s office, Skibo.
GSIA Develops 
Potential For 
Management
The ninth annual PFE (Pro­
gram for Executives) will be 
sponsored by G.S.I.A. from March 
12 to May 11. Twenty-eight cor­
porate executives will participate.
This program is designed for 
mature executives who have dem­
onstrated strong potential for 
general management responsibili­
ties. The program’s objectives are 
to help such men develop an 
analytical, company -wide ap­
proach to management problems; 
to deepen their understanding of 
management responsibilities; and 
to sharpen their awareness of the 
important economic and political 
forces which provide the environ­
ment for management decisions.
To implement these objectives, 
six major courses will be offered 
in an integrated program. All 
courses are taught by regular 
members of the Graduate School 
of Industrial Administration fac­
ulty. The six courses are Business 
Policy, Human Relations and Ad­
ministration, Labor and Manage­
ment Problems, Quantitative Tools 
ior Managerial Decision-Making 
and Control, Business in the 
changing Environment, and Ideas, 
Change and the Corporation.
In addition, the Business Deci­
sion Game, specially designed by 
the Graduate School of Industrial 
Administration, will supplement 
the work of the Business Policy 
course. This game is played with 
the aid of a high speed electronic 
computer and pits against each 
other small groups of participants, 
acting as the top managements of 
competing firms. This innovation, 
simulating the conditions of deci­
sion making in actual business op­
erations, offers special benefits in 
top management training through 
the concentrated experience it 
provides in business decision mak­
ing under competitive pressures.
Since the start of the Program 
ior Executives in 1954, approxi­
mately 230 executives from many 
leading corporations have partici- 
patd in the program.
Carnegie Opens 
Art Galleries
Carnegie'Institute will open the 
first section of its Permanent Col­
lection area this Thursday, in its 
renovated galleries on the second 
floor of the Fine Arts building. 
The paintings have not been on 
display since last spring when the 
majority of them were lent to the 
Westmoreland County Museum of 
Art during the period that these 
galleries were being used for the 
Pittsburgh International.
A series of panels and a sus­
pended ceiling make possible con­
siderable additional exhibit areas. 
The architectural changes were 
designed by Mr. Paul Schweikher, 
Heal of the Architecture Depart­
ment.
Hawaii Summer ClassesTech Receives 
Stereo Albums
The Capitol Record Club has 
given to Carnegie Tech twelve 
stereo albums for the Skibo 
Record collection. The gift was 
made through the Tech chapter of 
Alpha P h i Omega. Capitol’s 
albums include:
The Best of Duke Ellington, 
Viennese Waltzes in Stereo, Seems 
Like Old Times, The Four Preps 
on Campus. Danube Waves, Please 
Mr. Gray, Come Dance With Me, 
The Shearing Touch, Nine ‘N* 
Easy, Joe “Fingers” Carr, Sold 
Out, Hary’s Choice.
Dr. Strick said he plans to buy 
more albums for the Skibo collec­
tion. Students can listen to these 
records in the Skibo Record Room 
by checking them out the Skibo 
Information desk. This service is 
free to all Tech students and 
students may bring their own 
records for use in the Record 
Room.
Summer Sessions Program to University of Hawaii includes 
6 weeks of exciting Island Travel, Study & Fun.
The University of Hawaii has 
announced that it will hold its 
annual summer session this yeav 
from June 23 to August 4th. The 
six-week session, which features 
lectures by distinguished faculty 
members from all over the world, 
and transferable credit courses, in 
a wide range of suhjects, is open 
to students and teachers through­
out the United States.
In addition to educational work, 
students will have an opportunity 
to participate in sightseeing tours, 
cruises, dinner dances, and beach 
parties. Student rates for the ses­
sion begin at $550.
Full particiulars are available 
from Dr. Robert E. Cralle, Exec­
utive Director, University Study 
Tours to Hawaii, 2275 Mission 
Street, San Francisco 10, Califor-
Campus
Chest
For Qualify 
and Selection
See Our Display of 
Domestic and Imported 
Pipes and Pipe Tobaccos
Briar Bowl
3725 Forbes Ave. 
Oakland Pgk., Pa.
"Tareyton's Dual Filter in duas partes divisa est!*
saysUrsus (Bear Foot) Sulla, popular Coliseum bear fighter. 
“We animal wrestlers fight tooth and Claudius to get to 
that first post-fight Tareyton,” says" Bear Foot. “De hoc 
smoke, Tareyton’s one filter cigarette that really delivers de 
gustibus!”
DUAL FILTERTareyton
tni»d «f X&jocc-(£y»m*p-&£*** k tur mMU mmt

---------------------------------------------------

pi esce CAMYÓN RfDBfD 
SAN DSTOM 65—SHAtES
RUSTLER FORMATff»^ 
ANHYORJTÇ CLAYSTOHE5
SECTION THROUGH 
GNOME EVENT
Wednesday, Mmrtk 14, \H% — TBE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Page S
Bindings, Rare Books 
Highlight Library
<*
The book collection numbers 
gome 4,000 volumes that are the 
result of one persons taste and 
preference. It was assembled, not 
as the working collection of a bo­
tanist nor to fill the needs of a 
scientific institution, but to satis­
fy one woman’s love for plants 
and books, and for her interest 
in the people who wrote those 
books, who painted or engraved 
the plates of illustrations, and 
who gave their lives searching the 
far reaches of the world for bet­
ter plants to be grown in some 
garden. In this library, now to be 
seen, used, and enjoyed by Tech- 
ites, Mrs. Hunt selected individu­
ally every book she acquired. In 
it there is no hint of mass collect­
ing nor of “conquest.’’ Nothing 
was acquired in lots or by buying 
up existing private libraries. 
Rather, every book, flowe- paint­
ing, portrait, and autograph letter 
was chosen with deliberation. The 
collection was brought together 
slowly — over a period of sixty 
years—with knowledge, exquisite 
taste, and deep personal enjoy­
ment. This is a library assembled 
with loving care, and with an in­
timate knowledge of each author 
and his works. On a Wednesday 
afternoon, from 2 to 5 p.m. when 
the library is open to all, Mrs. 
Hunt is often present to greeet 
old friends and new. She enjoys 
meeting the students who visit 
and introduce themselves to her. 
And those who do so leave with 
a greater feeling of appreciation 
for the quality of this heritage 
now a part of Tech.
Book Binding Display 
Mrs. Hunt is an artist in her 
own right. The evidence for this 
is in the display case of book 
bindings at the Penthouse; a dis­
play of some of the most beautiful 
leather bindings seen by this 
writer, and said to be as fine as 
any to be found. When a young 
woman she studied book binding, 
first here in Pittsburgh and then 
under England’s great master 
binder, T. J. Cobden-Saunderson, 
himself a colleague of William 
Morris. During the period be­
tween 1903 and 1918 she com­
pleted nearly one hundred bind­
ings in her own bindery. Most of 
these are now in the Penthouse.
She is reported to have said that 
when her first son was born in 
1918 she no longer had time for 
book binding, and turned to gar­
dening. Each binding represents 
3-5 weeks concentrated work. 
For each binding the library pos­
sesses also her notebooks of pen­
cilled work sketches and tooling 
trials. In the botanical bindery in 
the basement of Hunt Library one 
may see her equipment and the 
hundreds of brass tools, roulettes, 
and gouges used in working out 
the gilded designs and gauffered 
edged.
Rare Books
The collection of rare books 
about plants began when an early 
herbal was placed in Mrs. Hunts 
hands — she was then fifteen 
years old. She added to it, con­
centrating on the early printed 
works about plants, originations 
of the 16th and 17th centuries. 
Later she was able to add many 
of the 15th century, the period of 
cradle-books, the incunabula. 
Among the works of these three 
centuries are a dozen volumes not 
known to exist elsewhere; unique 
copies, as they are known to col­
lectors. There are twice as many 
more that are the the only copies 
in this country, and which are re­
presented in Europe only by one 
other known copy. Such is the ex­
tent of true rarities in the collec­
tion. There are association copies; 
those once owned by great scien­
tists of the past, or bearing the 
crests of bookplates of many of 
Europe’s noblemen.
Quite apart from the collections 
of books, of portraits of men who 
wrote them, and of letters written 
by them, is the very considerable 
collection of prints, paintings, and 
drawings of plants, flowers, and 
gardens — some by Europe’s most 
famed botanical artists. The orig­
inal works, many painted on vel­
lum, number in excess of 400. The 
prints and engravings number 
more than 1,400. In addition there 
are albums of original works; a 
collection 238 original engravings 
by Pillement, more than 400 orig­
inal water colors by French bo­
tanical artist Poiret, and an album 
of originals by James Sowerby 
later published in volumes shelv­
ed in the library. These prints and 
paintings should prove to be of in­
The Rare Book Room in the Hunt Library
creasing interest and some use to 
advanced students in P and D, 
and in the Graphic Arts. For the 
latter there is a superb collection 
of works by private presses of 
Europe and this country. One of 
the few copies of William Morris’ 
Kelmscott edition of Chaucer, 
Cobden-Saunderson’s printing of 
the Bible, scores of works from 
the Kelmscott and Doves presses, 
some printed wholly on vellum. 
There are original pages from a 
Guttenberg Bible, a gorgeous 14th 
century Missal with scores of illu­
minated initials and delicately de­
tailed genre scenes. A collection
of broadside sheets of type faces 
carried by the 18th century print­
ers is important to students of 
early printing.
Often the question is raised, 
why a botanical library in a uni­
versity where no botany is taught 
and horticulture is unknown. The 
answer is simple. Mr. and Mrs. 
Hunt were determined that Mrs. 
Hunt’s collection should remian 
forever in Pittsburgh. There was 
recognition of the importance of 
its being a part of a university 
community, where its own scho­
lars would find kindred scholarly 
pursuits in progress. From Tech’s
standpoint, and as every student 
now here can attest it needed a 
central library, and desperately. 
Here was the answer; provide the 
academic environment for the re­
search center of which Mrs. 
Hunt’s botanical collection was 
destined to become the nucleus, 
and Mr. and Mrs. Hunt in turn 
would provide the building that 
today is the Hunt Library. The 
student body and faculty of Tech 
are proud to have this botanical 
library as a part of its community» 
and we are pleased to take ad­
vantage of the opportunity that its 
facilities present to those who can 
use them.
Power from below
An artist’s conception of Project Gnome, a step toward providing power and isotopes from under­
ground thermonuclear detonations. This area of endeavor is part of Project Plowshare, initiated at 
the Lawrence Radiation Laboratory of the University of California. Other Plowshare projects under 
«tudy include the excavation of an experimental harbor in Alaska, production of oil from tar sands, 
control of groundwaters, mining applications, and other novel ideas using the energy of nuclear 
explosives.
The Lawrence Radiation Lab­
oratory is working in the areas 
of Nuclear Propulsion, Con­
trolled Thermonuclear Reac­
tions, Nuclear Explosives for 
Industry and Defense, Space 
Physics, and other advanced 
problems in Nuclear Physics 
and Engineering.
ON MARCH 29
Laboratory staff members will 
be on Campus to interview out­
standing students in the Phys­
ical Sciences and Engineering.
Call your placement office 
for an appointment
LAWRENCE RADIATION 
LABORATORY
of the University of California 
Berkeley and L;uermore,California

---------------------------------------------------

jp»*e It — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wed*esdajr. March 14, 194%
Reduce Taxes Realistically, 
Support Herlong-Baker Bills
By ('»nsress A. Sydney Her!on$.
Jr.. Florida
Neither you nor any patriotic 
American wouLd w*.nt tax rates 
reduced if it would deprive your 
government of funds needed for 
defense or essential purposes.
But there is a way to reduce 
your tax rates without cutting off. | 
or limiting funds for military and 
other needed programs, or throw­
ing the budget out of balance: a 
way that is sound and realistic.
It will provide relief 'or you, no 
matter which tax bracket you are 
i*.
It wit! moderate both individual 
and corporate ts*x rates gradually 
over a iive-vear period.
It will defer taxes for you, as 
a» individual, on long-term cap­
ital gains until such times as you 
sell your holdings, receive a cash; 
profit and do not reinvest the pro-j 
ceeds.
It will reduce the rate of tax on 
your estate and on your gifts.
It will make it easier for your j 
business to replace worn-out and 
obsolete equipment.
Four .Major Areas
1. The first bracket of personal 
tax rates will be reduced from 20 j 
to 15 per cent and the top rate: 
brought down to 47 per cent from 
91 per cent, in five easy stages j 
with corresponding reductions in 
all interim rates.
2. The top corporate rate of 
52 per cent will be reduced to 47 
per cent, also in five stages. Set­
ting the top rates of individual 
and corporate tax at the same 
level rightfully puts the owners 
of unincorporated business — 
which account for 85 per cent of 
all businesses—and members of 
professions on an even tax keel 
with corporations as opposed to 
the higher rates they now pay.
3. Estate tax rates will be re­
duced from a top of 77 per cent 
to 47 per cent and the top rate of 
gift tax from 57.75 per cent to 
35.25 per cent. All lower rates 
of both taxes will be reduced in 
proportion. This comprises an­
other important easement of the 
impact of capital taxation.
4. There will be a reduction of 
approximately 25 per cent, over 
the five-year period, in the time 
during which business will be al­
lowed to charge off the cast of 
plants and equipment before fig­
uring their taxable profit.
Bis Savings
This will give you, and every­
one. at least a 25 per cent cut in 
taxes. It will do this without 
shifting tax burdens from one set 
of taxpayers to another. Almost 
60 per cent of the total savings in 
individual taxes will go to those 
in the taxable brackets up to 
$6,000.
The proposed cuts in tax rates, 
over the five year period, will not 
result in red-ink spending by the 
government. Slated reduction will 
be postponed when there is dan­
ger that the federal budget will 
be thrown out of balance.
The money to provide for the 
reduction of your tax rates will 
come from a simple change in the 
way the government operates.
Here is how it will come about: j
Since 1955 the yield to the gov­
ernment from personal income, 
taxes alone has grown from $30 j 
billion to about $43 billion, with i 
no change in rates. During that 
period, personal incomes in dollar 
terms rose by a third, so that the 
government received on a silver | 
platter an increase in revenue of 
$13 billion. •
Other taxes also yield larger 
revenues as the economy grows, 
although not to the same extent.
Half of any increase in corporate 
profits automatically flows back 
to the government. The more you 
buy, the more you pay in excise 
taxes.
Estimates for the next fiscal 
year, which begins in July are that 
to tal revenue may be up as much 
as $15 billion over the fiscal year 
recently ended, simply because of 
the growth in our national in­
come.
Each single percentage point of 
gain in the growth rate means $1 
billion in additional revenue, 
which is why the added money 
coming in from economic growth 
is such a very large sum.
At present, the government 
takes the added money coming in 
from economic growth and spends 
it.
Higher Purchases. Employment
Now, follow this carefully: You 
will gel the cut in your tax rates 
by the government taking this 
spillover each year and. through 
tax reform, making it available 
for growth in the private econo­
my. The freed money will go into 
consumer purchases and plant ex­
pansion and research and develop­
ment of new products which, in 
turn will cause added employ­
ment, so that, even though your I
I taxes will be cut by at least 25
per cent, the government will re­
ceive more, not less, in total taxes.
When this is done, there is no 
reason why our economy should 
not move forward as fast as five 
per cent or more a year. Any 
growth rate above 3 per cent 
will take care of a step-by-step 
cut-back in your taxes over a 
five-year period and still provide 
the government with ample funds 
for other purposes.
The needed legislation to ac­
complish »11 of this is already 
drawn and in the hands of the 
Ways and Means Committee of the 
House of Representatives, in the 
form of identical bills. H. R. 2030 
and H. R. 3031, introduced by 
Representative Howard 11. Baker 
of Tennessee, and me.
Known as the Herlong-Baker 
bills, this proposed legislation has 
received expressions of com­
mendation and support from 
members of Congress, editorial 
writers, columnists, business 
groups and other organizations, 
etc., across the country. The most 
constant theme of these expres­
sions has been the practical, com- 
monsense nature of the legislation.
I know that this legislation is 
not only practical and feasible but 
that it is urgently needed. It will 
be passed if you want it passed, 
and if, without delay, you will 
tell your Congressman and Sen­
ators that you want it passed, it is 
as simple as that.
IT* all make mistake»...
ERASE WITHOUT A TRACE 
ON EATON’S CORRASABLE BOND
Don’t meet your Waterloo at the typewriter—perfectly 
typed paper» begin with CorrasaWe! You can rob out 
typing errors with just an ordinary pencil eraser. It’s 
that simple to erase without a trace on Corrasable. Save» 
time, temper, and money!
Your choice of Cor ratable in ^
light, medium, heavy weights and £
Onion Skin in handy 100- 
sheet packets and .500-sheet 
boxes. Only Katon makes 
Corrasable.
A Berkshire Typewriter Paper
BATON fAPB* CORPORATION (E) PITTSFIELD, If ASS.
C A RNE
INC*
IS THE MARK OF OPPORTUNITY FOR BS, MS, PhD
EN6INEERS • CHEMISTS • SCIENTISTS
IN ADVANCED
CRYOGENICS AND CHEMICAL PROCESS TECHNOLOGY
For interview appointment 
? ON CAMPUS—MARCH 19 <
Please contact Mr. S. R. Cessna 
at Your Placement Office
RESEARCH AND 
DEVELOPMENT
• Chemical Process Development
• Physical Chemistry, Physics
• Thermodynamics
• Applied Metallurgical t Chemical Engineering
• Heat, Mass Transfer, Fluid Dyaamics
• Cryogenics Kaseercfc
AN INCREASING CHALLENGE IS 
ENGINEERING CHIEF ENGINEER'S
• Organic Chemical Process Development
• Process & Machinery Engineering
• Equipment Design, Cost
• Project Coordination
STAFF
• Engineering Development
• Computer Application to Technical & Business Problems
• Digital Computer Systems
OFFERED IN-
TECHNICAL
MARKETING
• Industrial Gas & Sales Distribution
• Chemical Products & Plants
• Oefense & Space Systems
• It & 0 Contracts
ADVANCED
PRODUCTS
• Cryo-Propellants
• Advanced Machinery Design and Development
• Miniature Cryo-Refrigerators
• MiniatureHeat Exchangers
• Cryo-Magnet & Cryo-Electronic Super Coolers
? Career Development Program consisting of 2 to 4 planned six- 
month project assignments. A stimulating and informative op­
portunity to contribute heavily while selecting the activity 
where your best potential exists.
? Immediate openings for direct placement are also available.
? Graduates with non-technical degrees may qualify for the 
Career Development Program directed toward Sales and 
Finance.
^ Company location near New York and Philadelphia. Graduate 
study tuition refund plan at excellent nearby universities» 
Advanced personnel policies.
For additional information write Mr. Cessna,
Air Products & Chemicals, Inc., Allentown, Penna.
An equal opportunity employer
MARK fIVARS
AND HIS ORCHESTRA
Ho,vcu HAoeW g YAs 
Hmnefnep Peop'e
JA 1-8381
F FF * ?wwwwww 0 B my k0OMPÄNV GROWTH

---------------------------------------------------

Charles Bell
»Jazz Quartet 
Holds Benefit
The Charles Bell Contemporary 
Jazz Quartet will play at a benefit 
for Child Welfare Services at Car­
negie Music Hall, Tuesday even- 
Ü ing, April 3.
Mr. Bell, who is the leader of 
the Quartet, is a graduate of 
Tech’s music department with a 
B.A. degree in composition. He 
has been commissioned by the 
Pittsburgh Symphony to write a 
work for jazz quartet and sym­
phony orchestra. The work will 
be performed during this concert 
season.
The Quartet made its debut in 
a series of concerts at the Carne­
gie Lecture Hall in September, 
1958. Later, it was the firs', jazz 
group to take part in a program 
for the Bicentennial sponsored by 
the Council of Churches and to 
give concerts in the Pittsburgh 
Public Schools. The Quartet also 
performed in Pittsburgh’s first 
three-day jazz festival in the Mel- 
^ ody Tent.
The Quartet has had many more 
distinctions. It has played in the 
Pittsburgh Arts Festival to a 
standing-room-only crowd, and 
has received the Bill Powel Pitts­
burgher Award (Station WAMO) 
for the most outstanding contribu­
tion to contemporary jazz for the 
year. In addition, the President’s 
Music Committee has invited the 
quartet to play in the First Inter- 
^ national Jazz Festival in Wash- 
™ ington, D. C., this May.
The other Members of the Quar­
tet are: William Smith, a third 
year student in Duquesne Univer­
sity’s Music Department, on the 
guitar; Michael Taylor, who 
studied at the Oscar Peterson Jazz 
School in Toronto, Canada, on the 
bass; and Allen Blairmen, who hasL
been awarded a scholarship to the 
Berklee Schol of Jazz, on the 
drums.
You’ll rate with your date...
For a meal or just 
a snack-put Hotel 
Webster Hall on your 
close-to-campus entertain­
ment schedule.
totel Wefwte/o Walt
4415 Fifth Avenu« FitHborgh 13, Pa. 
Telephone: MAyflower 1-7700________
hotel
WEBSTER HALL
Giil Witcher ¡s Guide
Presented by Pall Mall Famous Cigarettes
Wednesday, March 14, 1962 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Pate 11
tage of
- - m -,JPfllHE * », , -. a™™
creative Morewood girls took advan- create in snow the perfect Tech Venus, 
last Tuesday’s bountiful snowfall to
You mean 
you put atl 
our money 
in a Union National 
Bank savings 
account?
Sure did. They 
pay now— 
and they’re the 
only bank in town 
that pays the 
Interest four times 
a year. We earn 
more money 
that way.
Stop at any office of The Union National 
Bank today and get all the details.
THE UNION NATIONAL BANK 
OF PITTSBURGH
Fourth Avenue at Wood Street, 413-415 Federal Street, North Sid« 
4612 Forbes Avenue, Oakland 
1101 Seventh Avenue • 22nd Street at 9th Avenue, Beaver Fall*, Pa. 
Tarentum • Koppel • Lower Burrell • Coraopolis, two office*
You can bank with u« by mall
fltomber F tiler«} Ptewv*Member Dep***: G•<*©<#»»••
The sign of the omoteur
yi©®(2)K] © °The importance of head control
We are told that bird watchers, who always take notes 
while they watch, are able to keep one eye on the bird 
and one eye on the notebook. Eye dexterity of this type 
is also a great asset to the girl watcher. It enables him to 
watch two girls at the same time, even when the girls are 
sitting on opposite sides of a classroom. The beginner,
who must watch the girls one at a time in a situation of 
this type, must learn to restrict his movements to the eye­
balls. The girj watcher never moves his head. Undue 
head-turning, particularly if it is accompanied by shouts 
or whistles, is the sign of the amateur. (If you want some­
thing to shout about, try a Pall Mall!)
|W«(f Svtfua*v&ryiary - Svi&eac» it Mir middle t
WHY BE AN AMATEUR?
JOIN THE AMERICAN SOCIETY 
OF GIRL WATCHERS NOW!
FREE MEMBERSHIP CARD. Visit the editorial office of 
this publication for a free membership card in the world’s 
only society devoted to discreet, but relentless, girl watch­
ing. Constitution of the society on reverse side of card.
This ad based on the book, "The Girl Watcher’s Guide.” Text: Copyright by Donald J. Sauers. Drawings: Copyright by Eldon 
Dedini. Reprinted by permission of Harper & Brothers.
Pall Mali’s 
natural mildness is so good 
to your taste!
So smooth, so satisfying, 
so downright smokeable!

---------------------------------------------------

1* — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday. March 14. 1962
Help Campus Chest
Tecli Engineers 
WPPC Guests At 
I IT Conference
Sliare-The-Ride 
A Plii 0 Service
“Well, now that you've made a spectacle of yourself, 
are you satisfied?”
Gustav A. Carlson and J. M. 
Anderson, junior engineering stu­
dents, and W. F. Stokey, Associate 
Professor in the Mechanical En­
gineering department, from Tech, 
will be guests of the West Penn 
Power Company at the 24th An­
nual American Power Conference 
in Chicago on March 27, 28 and 
29.
The Conference is sponsored by 
the Illinois Institute of Techno­
logy with the cooperation of var­
ious universities and technical so­
cieties. Its purpose is to provide 
a national forum for the discus­
sion of problems and the ex­
change of information concerning 
matters of interest to the power 
industry and associated groups. 
Papers will be presented in the 
areas of generation, transmission, 
distribution and utilization of 
electric power.
West Penn Power sponsors the 
attendance of these engineering 
faculty members and students as 
a contribution to education in the 
electric power field. The Confer­
ence provides an up-to-date ex­
posure to the latest industry de­
velopments as a supplement to 
classroom training. Papers pre­
sented are selected by committees 
composed of experts chosen from 
the cooperating universities, tech­
nical societies, industry and gov­
ernment.
Two students and one professor 
each from Grove City College, 
The Pennsylvania State Univer­
sity, and The University of Pitts­
burgh also will be guests of West 
Penn Power at the Conference.
Alpha Phi Omega has recently 
installed a new Share-the-Ride 
board in the Skibo Snack Bar. The 
new bulletin board, built by an A 
Phi O comittee under the chair­
manship of Matthew Jacobs, will 
provide the extra space necessary 
to relieve the congestion of cards 
prevailing before each major 
school vacation.
“Ride Wanted” and “Riders
Wanted” cards are supplied for 
the student body at the base of the 
Board. ‘For Sale” cards are also 
present, for students wishing to 
sell any items on the Carnegie 
Tech campus.
somewhere near here?”
21 GREAT TOBACCOS MAKE 20 WONDERFUL SMOKES!AGED MILO. BLENDED MILD - NOT FILTERED MILD-THEY SATISFY
CARS FOR EVERY FAMILY, EVERY BUDGET, EVERY TASTE
Chevrolet Want to pull out
all stops—except price? The Jet- 
smooth Chevrolet serves up spacious, 
gracious interiors, Body by Fisher 
craftsmanship, Jet-smooth ride, new 
V8 vinegar or 6 savings—and more. 
On the ferry: an Impala Sport Sedan.
Chevy II Hungering for a car
that’s lovely, lively, easy to park 
and pay for? Chevy II is all that, all 
right—and also winner of Car Life 
magazine’s award for Engineering 
Excellence! Parallel to the shore: 
a Nova 1*00 It-Door Station Wagon.
Corvair If you spark to sporty
things this one ought to fire you up 
but good. With the engine weight; 
astern, the steering’s as responsive 
as a bicycle's and the traction’s 
ferocious. As for the scat—wow! At 
the ramp: the Monza Club CoupeJ
AFSC Report 
Given Today
On Wednesday, March 14, atj 
six o’clock, p.m., the American 
Friends Service Committee* 
(Quakers) will hold its Annual' 
Progress Report Dinner in the; 
Skibo Ballroom. Following the! 
dinner, Mr. Colin Bell, Executive j 
Secretary of the A. F. S. C. wiU 
speak on “The Role of the Serv­
ice Committee in Today’s World.” 
His talk will be followed by a 
discussion of “The Workcamp and 
Seminar Program in Pittsburgh,” 
by James E. Syphers, Youth Sec­
retary of the A.F.S.C. Pittsburgh 
area office.
The progress report dinner is 
held annually by the A.F.S.C. 
for the purpose of informing the 
public of the service committee’s 
local and international aid pro­
grams. In this year’s program 
there will be a discussion of the • 
Pittsburgh program of Workcamps j 
and Seminars for High School and : 
College students.
Visitors are welcome to hear the 
speakers at 7:30 p.m., immediately 
following the dinner. Tickets to 
the dinner are being sold for two 
dollars, and may be reserved by 
contacting Marion Dalglish, 1353 
Shady Avenue, JAckson 1-3353.
See the new Chevrolet, new Chevy II and new Corvair at your local authorized Chevrolet dealer's.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, March 14, 1962 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Page 13
¡ommunism Shadow Spreads Over 
All U.S. Governmental Problems
Uy Congressman Francis E. Walter 
of Pennsylvania
Though I do not in any way un­
derrate our many problems or the 
work of other Congressional com- 
Ihiittees, the overriding and most 
pressing problem our country faces 
today, and has faced for years, is 
that of communism. It is for this 
reason that the work of the Com­
mittee on Un-American Activities 
is so vital to all of us and to our 
Nation.
Each year we spend billions for 
military defense against commun­
ism. The CIA spends many, many 
millions—only a handful of per­
sons knows just how much—for 
the same purpose each year. A 
very large part of the millions ap­
propriated to the State Depart­
ment are spent, in effect, to fight 
communism. The same is true of 
the $85 billion we have given in 
foreign aid during the last 15 years 
and the millions spent each year 
by the USIA and the Voice of 
America. It is also true of a sig­
nificant part of the FBI budget, 
nd the budgets of other depart­
ments and agencies of the execu­
tive branch.
Certainly, all these expenditures 
contribute to our security, to im­
peding the spread of communism 
both at home and abroad, and to 
slowing up its plans for conquest 
of the United States. Basically, 
however, it is the American peo­
ple themselves who, in the final 
analysis, will defeat—or succumb 
¡to—communism. And all this
country’s laws, its expenditures, 
its policies, both foreign and do­
mestical timately derive from the 
American people, whose will they 
express and who elect the men 
who make them.
And what agency is it that has 
done more than any other to give 
the American people the knowl­
edge of communism they must 
have to formulate sound poliices 
and laws to protect themselves 
against the most deadly enemy 
they have ever faced? Overall, it 
is the Committee on Un-American 
Activities.
Committee Effective 
In the 22 years of its existence,
I the Committee has distributed to 
I the American public more than 612 
I million copies of hearings and re- 
I ports, all of which, except for a 
I handful, have dealt with com- 
^munism. These documents have 
| been the products of extensive re­
search, investigation, and hearings 
by the Committee, and also of 
I scholarly studies made by many 
outstanding authorities in the field 
in co-operation with the Commit­
tee. They are the product of in­
formation the Committee has been 
able to develop through the inter- 
i rogation of more than 3,500 wit­
nesses who have testified before 
L it. Yet, the budget of the Com 
jPrnittee, compared with those of the 
I agencies I have named, is minute,
I a mere drop in the bucket. This 
I year the Committee’s appropria 
I lion is the highest it has ever been 
I —$331,000. I do not believe that 
I there is any other agency, public 
I or private, that can match this 
I record.
What do you want to know 
I about communism? Its basic phi- 
l losophy and doctrines? Its strat- 
® egy and tactics as they have 
changed over the years? How the 
Party sets up and operates fronts? 
How it has infiltrated government, 
labor, education, and moving pic­
tures; our political institutions? 
Do you want facts on the struc­
ture, operations and agents of the 
Soviet secret police? On Soviet 
espionage in the United Slates? 
On how embassies of Communist 
nations here in our country, and 
also their missions to the United 
Nations in New York, are used for 
spy purposes? The answers to 
these and dozens of other ques­
tions concerning numerous phases 
of Communist activity can be 
found in the Committee’s publica­
tions.
In a free, representative gov­
ernment such as ours, the first | 
essential for meeting any problem
is an informed citizenry. To the 
extent that the American people 
are informed about communism, 
our country is indebted in very 
large part to the Committee on 
Un-American Activities and the 
Members of the Congress who 
have served on it through the 
years.
We have a government of laws, 
not of men. Here, in this coun­
try, an informed citizenry devel­
ops laws—which are tested for 
conformity to the Constitution— 
to solve their problems, promote 
the general welfare, and generally 
bring about the accomplishment 
of their desires. During the past 
20 years, a considerable body of 
law " has been enacted by the 
American people, through their 
elected representatives, to meet 
the problem of Communist sub­
version. And again in this field, 
there is no other agency that has 
contributed as much as has the 
Committee on Un-American Ac­
tivities.
Anti-Red Legislation
Thirty-five of the existing laws 
of this land which deal with the 
problem of cOmmunism are based 
on the Committee’s recommenda­
tions. At the close of the last Con­
gress, 57 bills, containing recom-1 
mendations made by the Commit­
tee were pending in the House 
which had passed 7 bills based on 
Committee proposals. This year 
the Committee is giving consider­
ation to more than 30 separate 
legislative proposals in this field. 
Over the years, the Committee has 
made 129 legislative recommenda­
tions to the House on the subject 
Of communism.
On June 5, 1961, the Supreme 
Court of the United States upheld 
a key anti-Communist law which 
had been enacted as the result of 
hearings and recommendations of 
the Committee on Un-American 
Activities. I am referring to the 
Internal Security Act of 1950. It 
is an important law in many re­
spects. If it is clear now and a 
matter of judicial decision—as it 
certainly is—that the Communist 
Party, U. S. A., is controlled lock, 
stock and barrel by Moscow—and 
if there now exists a court case 
that merits world-wide study— 
then credit for this fact goes large­
ly to the Committee on Un-Amer­
ican Activities.
This, then, is part, at least, of 
the legislative record of the Com-
have just cited, many enemies of 
the Committee claim that it has 
done little or nothing to fulfill its 
' primary function, which is that of 
^recommending legislation to cope 
I with Communist subversion.
Party Attacks Committee
Obviously, the Communist Party 
itself would not complain about 
this alleged failure of the Com­
mittee. This lie about the Com­
mittee has been, and is still being, 
spread chiefly by allegedly re­
spectable non-Communist sources 
which, by their falsehoods, are 
aiding and abetting the Kremlin 
itself. And inasmuch as I have 
mentioned this seat of Communist 
power, I should also bring out the 
fact that it, too, frequently attacks 
the Committee in broadcasts em­
anating from Moscow and other 
Communist capitals.
The Committee still has plenty 
of work cut out for it. J. Edgar 
Hoover testified recently that the 
FBI now has approximately 200 
suspected Communist fronts and 
Communist - infiltrated organiza­
tions under investigation. The 
Committee knows from its own in­
vestigation and research that in 
the last year or so the communist 
Party has greatly stepped up its 
activities in the field of youth 
work and racial agitation, as well 
as in other areas.
I promise you again that the 
Committee will go on about its 
work of finding constitutional, leg­
islative means to cope with the
this country througli his control 
of the Communist Party. It will
also continue to carry out its func­
tion of giving the American pub­
lic reliable information on the na­
ture of these problems.
Party Tactics 
At the same time, the attacks on 
the Committee will continue. The 
Communist Party will intensify 
its effort to destroy it and, as in 
the past, it will have the assist­
ance of some of our so-called lib­
eral newspapers, magazines, or­
ganizations and individuals in its 
efforts. These organizations and 
publications, like the Communists, 
will not hesitate to use Hitler’s 
big-lie technique to promote their 
aims. They have done it many 
I times before. Despite this, I am 
confident that, with the continued 
j help and support of the American 
people, the Communists will fail 
in their aim of destroying the 
i Committee.
! If and when the Committee on 
Un-American Activities ever 
ceases to function, it will never be 
because the American people have 
been so foolish as to give up one 
of their most effective weapons for 
combating their most deadly ene­
my.
mittee. But despite the facts 12 problems Khrushchev creates for
Register Now for Summer Work
Cutco Division of large local Alum­
inum Co.—Part or full time work^- 
Scholarships available—Career Oppor­
tunities—Car required.
Call 343-1470
Electrical, mechanical and chemical engineers—physicists with electronics majors, and chemists
’’Look for me in the big scene—I’ll be carrying a spear!”
The point: no matter how talent­
ed you are,it’s tough to stand out 
in a cast of thousands. And, there 
are many spear-carriers in a 
large company.
But, it’s just the opposite at Hagan 
Chemicals & Controls, Inc. You’ll 
be part of a small, select trainee 
group. You’ll get personal attention. 
You’ll click as an individual. Your 
ability won’t slip by unnoticed. In 
short: You’re not just another face 
at Hagan!
Right now, we want forty adult- 
minded graduates. We’re interested 
in electrical, mechanical, chemical 
engineers; physicists with electronics 
major; and chemists.
THIS IS HAGAN:
Included among our diversified group 
of customers are 98 of the country’s 
100 largest industrial firms, 35 of the 
40 largest utilities, and 27 of the 28 
largest steel companies.
At Hagan, we design, manufacture,
sell and service electronic, pneumatic 
and hydraulic automatic control, in­
strumentation, data handling and 
computer systems.
We process and sell chemicals for 
water treatment in utility, industrial, 
oilfield, municipal and household 
water systems.
Our Hall Laboratories service en­
gineers help prevent costly water 
troubles with on-the-job consultation 
and service for every type of industrial 
water problem—from procurement to 
disposal-.
HOW WE TRAIN ENGINEERS 
AND CHEMISTS:
Electrical, mechanical engineers and 
physicisis receive six months’ train­
ing for our Controls Division. This 
includes: Laboratory and classroom 
work, on-the-job training with a field 
engineer, and department rotation. 
Finally, assignment as a field service 
engineer—where possible in a terri­
tory of your choice.
Chemical engineers and chemists 
receive three to six months’ training 
for our Hall and Calgon Divisions. 
This includes: classroom work, on- 
the-job training with a field engineer, 
and department rotation. Lastly, a 
district office assignment — where 
possible in a territory of your choice.
Remember, Hagan has 31 offices 
located all over the country. And 
you'll find individual opportunities 
in sales, engineering, or administra­
tive work in all of them. So don’t be 
a spear-carrier, write Ross A. Cibella, 
Personnel Manager, at the address 
below.
ARERN
CHEMICALS A CONTROLS, INC.
HAGAN CENTER • PITTSBURGH 30. PA. 
I 
I 
I
I
HAGAN DIVISIONS: CALGON CO.. HALL LABORATORIES . BRUNER CORP I
HAGAN REPRESENTATIVE 
TO VISIT FRIDAY, 
MARCH 16. 1962
I

---------------------------------------------------

fH« M — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wedaesfer. N»rch 14, 1M!
Soviet, U.S. Versions Differ In 
Powers-Abel Release Exchange
The release of U-2 Pilot Powers 
appeared to people outside the 
Soviet orbit as an exchange for 
Soviet Spy Abel, but for those 
whose only information comes 
from the controlled Communist 
press and radio it was the upbeat 
on an orchestration of peace, re­
laxation of tensions, nuclear test 
bans and disarmament — building 
in a crescendo toward the 18-na­
tion disarmament conference sug­
gested by the Soviets.
No one behind the Iron Cur­
tain would ever have heard of 
Colonel Abel except by listening 
to Radio Free Europe and other 
Western broadcasts. No mention 
has been made of him within the 
Soviet orbit, for the Communist 
regimes never admit their espion­
age activities. The release of 
Francis Gary Powers was present­
ed by Communist news media as 
“the sincere wish of the Soviet 
government to remove all obsta­
cles to understanding and to play 
up to the other side in favor of 
relaxation and peace.”
Soviet and satellite news media 
suggested that the U.S. should 
make another kind of quid pro 
quo for the U-2 pilot: “It is ex­
pected that the U.S. government's 
manner of answering Powers’ re- j 
lease, in turn wii; determine , 
which way it will contribute to 
the relaxation of international . 
tension.”
Th^ first step in relaxing ten- j 
sions suggested by the Commu- ; 
nists was for the United States 
not to proceed with nuclear tests 
in the atmosphere. The Commu­
nists thus evoked the recurring 
“peace” theme: the Communist
camp seeks peace and disarma­
ment, the Western “capitalist” na­
tions obstruct disarmament and 
threaten peace with the nuclear 
arms race.
“Peace” as Propaganda 
Khrushchev's proposal that- 18 
heads of state meet at the Geneva 
disarmament conference was a 
major effort to seize the initiative : 
on the peace and disarmament is- j 
sue. Communist regime press and 
radio pulled out all the stops: “N. j 
S. Khrushchev’s proposal that the : 
18 heads of state meet at Geneva, j 
dictated by profound anxiety of 
our state to avert atomic war and 
the desire to strengthen universal 
peace, is of tremendous interna­
tional importance. While intensi- | 
fving the arms drive, the politi- 
cians of the West at the same time j 
alleged that they want the work , 
of the 18-nation conference to be 
successful. B^t how can one re- j 
concile these two things? Where ; 
is the logic of it all? . . Such
an attitude is false throughout.” 
Having proposed on short no- j 
tice a gathering of 18 heads of 
government, the Communists an- j 
ticipated its unacceptability to the . 
Western leaders: “When also this j 
time the Western countries reject , 
the Soviet initiative, they they j 
will take on themselves the whole j 
moral responsibility for the un­
necessary armament race which is 
pregnant with danger.”
“Lack of Labor Discipline” 
That captive workers do not 
always carry out their tasks for i 
the workers’ state with enthus- j 
iasm was indicated by recent j 
Budapest radio criticism of “lack 
of labor discipline among night- J 
shift workers.” An investigation 
of one of Hungary’s largest fac- j 
tories, the Csepel works, disclosed [ 
that many workers and “often , 
even the supervisors were sleep- t 
ing." Others, instead of working ¦ 
on their assigned jobs were mak­
ing repairs on personal things. It i 
seems that when the supervisor is j 
asleep, private enterprise will i 
flourish.
Poles Polled on Doctor Choice j
Probably for the first time in a 1 
Communist society, the citizens in ; 
Warsaw were recently polled by a 
public opinion research center on j 
the question of choosing a physi­
cian. Over 75% were for the free 
choice of a phvsician. Only 2%
were against it. 50% expressed 
an opinion that on a private basis ; 
the physician has a better attitude j 
toward his patients because he ; 
earns more, has better working 
conditions, and has more time to 
give each patient.
Outer-Space Reasoning:
The Soviet propaganda machine 
continues to spotlight its own suc­
cesses while deprecating the 
achievements of the West. Cos­
monauts Gagarin and Titov — 
resplendent in their white dress 
uniforms — travel to far-off 
places that they only hurtled over 
before: Indonesia, Burma, Cuba. 
Meanwhile, Radio Moscow, noting 
that the delay in getting a U.S. 
Astronaut into orbit was attribut­
ed to technical failures, drew its 
usual remarkable Marxist-Leni- 
nist conclusion: when these fail­
ures continue to recur, the reasons 
fo- them should be looked for 
“more deeply — in the very so­
cial system of the United States.” 
What They Are Listening For 
In a survey of recent Hungarian 
refugees and visitors, those ques­
tioned indicated that people in 
Hungary expected Radio Free Eu­
rope to serve the following pur­
poses:
To provide accurate, realistic, 
objective information; to counter­
act regime thought-control; to 
keep alive the issue of Commu­
nist oppression in Hungary; to 
maintain contact between Hun­
gary and those who have left 
Hungary; to maintain hope; and 
to provide information about the 
West, the world and internal af­
fairs.
A Matter of Expediency
Some Communist Party mem­
bers are leading a double life, 
according to a complaint voiced 
by the Slovak Party daily Provda. 
Then ewspaper said that some 
Party mea, outwardly active 
Communists at their factories, 
drop their Communism as ¿oon as 
they get home after work.
“For instance,” Pravda asked, 
“why is it, when agitators are 
needed to explain an important 
event, that agitators from other 
blocks of flats or housing devel­
opments are sent to places where 
Communist a g i t a-t o r s already 
live?”
The paper also cited the case 
of a Bratislava factory where 
officials were offended when one 
of their best workers was not ac­
cepted for judge. “The citizens of 
his local ward refused to accept 
him because of his non-Commu-
nist attitude towards his family,” 
the paper declared. “Everyone in 
his area knew about this, yet the 
worker’s personal life was un­
known at the factory.”
Learning to Hatt
Chinese Communist propaganda 
aimed at indoctrinating its 700 
million people with hatred for 
everything American, has a tone 
and quality all its own. Its shrill­
ness is at least a few decibles 
higher than even the most strident 
of Soviet Agitrop utterances.
Listen to these samples of re­
cent Red Chinese attacks on the 
U.S. — portrayed as particularly 
villainous now for its most re­
cent actions against the .American 
Communist Party. Peoples’ Daily 
asserted that, from its beginning, 
President Kennedy’s administra­
tion “has fully demonstrated its 
monstrous aggressive and adven­
turous character.” The President’s 
global strategic plan is “to stamp 
out the peoples’ revolutions and 
restore capitalism in the socialist 
countries under the smoke screen 
of ‘freedom of choice’.” Finally, 
because of open resistance to sup­
posed preparations by Kennedy’s 
administration for nuclear war, 
the government has undertaken 
the “persecution of the American 
Communist Party.”
Wright Speak! 
On Lord Byron
Continuing the English depart­
ment’s series of lectures at Tues­
day morning assemblies, March 
20 Professor Austin Wright will 
present a talk on Lord Byron, nine­
teenth century English poet.
Professor Wright, head of the 
department of English, has se­
lected Don Juan as the work 
that he will discuss. This book is 
available for sale in Tech's book­
store in the Riverside Edition for 
students interested in reading th<* 
work before the assembly.
The following Monday, March 
26, Professor Wright will be guest I 
of the English discussion group U IJ 
continue an informal discussion or ¦ 
Byron’s works. This meeting is 
open to students of all departments 
and will be held in the Party 
Room, Skibo, at 7:30 p. m.
The English department’s series 
began last week at the Tuesday as- 
| sembly period. Professor Norman 
Know spoke on Gulliver's Travels 
and A Modest Proposal by Jona­
than Swift. Next week at the as­
sembly Professor Donald 
Goodfellow will deliver a talk orr
H. L. Mencken’s writings. Pro­
fessor Robert Slack will end the 
series April 3 with a discussion on 
Thomas Wolfe.
f
Pennsylvania investor-owned electric light and power 
companies take the lead in nuclear power progress with 
three of the nation’s 17 plants, in operation, under con­
struction or planned.
The aggregate capacity of these three Pennsylvania 
nuclear power plants will be 145,000 kilowatts. In con­
trast, in all of Russia there is only one nuclear plant de­
voted to power production, and that has a capacity of 
only 5,000 kilowatts!
SHIPPINGPORT ATOMIC POWER STATION—the world’s first 
large-scale nuclear power station devoted solely to peaceful 
uses. In addition to producing power by means of the pres­
surised water reactor, this station has provided extensive in­
valuable information on uranium oxide fuel element per­
formance, core reactivity changes and associated control 
factors, and on problems of health physics, radio chemistry 
and waste disposal.
SAXTON NUCLEAR POWER PROJECT—now under construc­
tion. This is basically a research project which will explore the. 
most promising concept of the pressurized water reactor for 
economic production of nuclear power. This facility has been 
designed and constructed so securely that it is extremely un­
likely that storms, floods, earthquakes, fire, or even a missile 
hit would produce a nuclear accident. The Saxton plant i*
happening here...
being built at an estimated cost of $8,520,000 to participating 
investor-owned electric companies.
PEACH BOTTOM ATOMIC POWER STATION—scheduled for 
completion late in 1963. High Temperature Reactor Develop­
ment Associates, Inc., including 53 electric power and lighl 
companies in the country, have contracted for this nuclear 
power project at a cost of 526 million. Employing a high 
temperature, helium gas-cooled, graphite-moderated, solid- 
homogeneous reactor system, this project represents the firsfc 
application of a new high performance concept. Its purpose is 
to serve as an effective prototype for future full-scale plants 
designed to produce electric power competitive in price with 
conventional power. "
Big things are happening throughout Pennsylvania’s pro­
gressive electric industry; and there are exceptional oppor­
tunities for the capable engineering graduate to be a part of 
this vital movement.
-flap
PENNSYLVANIA ELECTRIC ASSOCIATION
20 Independent, Investor-Owned Electric 
Companies of Pennsylvania

---------------------------------------------------

BENDIX 
YORK
offers opportunities for growth, 
advancement and improved 
technical proficiency for:
MISSILE
ELECTRONICS
ENGINEERS
I.M. Basketball Enters Final Week of Play 
laker League Lacks Tournament Berth
and the Dunkers moved into a 
second place with PKA ‘‘B” by 
virtue of their respective wins 
over TDP “J” 30-29 and the KS 
“Owls” 20-19. Craig of the Delts 
“j'’ team had a fine night as he 
scored 15 of his team’s 30 points. 
Other league action saw, TDP ‘J” 
pick up their first win via a 21-20 
victory over PKT “J”.Challenging design opportunities in Microwave 
Components and Systems, Radar Circuits, 
Transistor Circuits, Test Equipment and 
Reliability Analysis.
See your College Placement Director 
for interview appointment.
ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
MARCH 28
TEAM STANDINGS 
MAJORS 
Royal Celtic
Vulcan “W" 4 0 Warriors
ATO “T” 3 2 Met Grads
BTP “A” 3 2 BSR
DU “A” 2 2 TOP “Blue”
SAE 2 3 DTD
Architects 0 5 Vulcan “M”
DU “B” Warrior Laker
ATO “A” 5 0 Grad Eagles
KS -‘A” 5 0 SN
Vulcan “B" 4 2 Vulcan “G”
PKA “A” 3 3 Plebes
Flyers 2 4 PKT
TX 2 4 KS “B“’
DU "C” 0 6 BTP “B”
MINORS 
Piston Kniek
Whales 4 0 E. E. Grads
Dunkers 2 2 Elbows
PKA “B" 2 2, Corns
Delts “J” 2 2 Heavies
KS “Owls” 1 2 ATO “D”
TDP “J" 1 2 SN “P”
PKT “J” J 3 SAE "J”
THE CORPORATION
YORK DMS10N • YORK, PENNSYLVANIA
An opportunity employer.
“Even in today’s age of specialization, a man eventually 
reaches a point where breadth of knowledge is necessary. 
The engineer must understand accounting and marketing. 
The marketing man must know his product. The financial 
man must be sympathetic to engineering development 
and sales programs. Management must have a working 
knowledge of all phases of the complex and highly com­
petitive business world.
•‘Therefore, even though specializing, a student should 
make his college curriculum as broad as possible, and 
diversify his outside activities. Authoritative surveys have 
shown that only a small percentage of individuals end up 
in the field in which they specialized in college.
4iWiden your world. Broaden your interests right now. 
Since graduation from college I’ve discovered that those 
who are really succeeding today are the ones who do more 
and keep on learning from what they do. The broader 
your college interests are now — the steadier your ladder 
of success tomorrow!**
Edwin J. Ducayet, President 
Bell Helicopter Company
*As I look back, graduating from college in the depth of 
the depression was a blessing in disguise. It was difficult 
to get a job, and even more difficult to hold it. It proved 
to me early in life that to succeed in business requires 
constant struggle.
“I found that the truly successful individual never stops 
learning, that a formal college education is the foundation 
on which we continue to build the knowledge and experi­
ence required to get ahead.
Edwin J. Ducayet is president of 
one of the world’s largest heli­
copter manufacturing firms. His 
company’s products are used in 
52 countries for a multitude of 
military and commercial ap­
plications. A resident of Fort 
Worth, Texas, Ed has been a 
Camel smoker since his under­
graduate days at M.I.T. *>,
Smoking more now but enjoying it less?...change to Camel!
R J fteynot<t* Tobáceo *UQip&uy Win* tan- MtUtoí Netti) Ourellii»THE BEST TOBACCO MAKES THE BEST SMOKE

---------------------------------------------------

r*et 1« — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday. March 14, Í9M
Tartan Mermen Dunk Case 
Swim Seuson Ends in Victory
In its best all around performance of the season, the 
Carnegie Tech swimmers staged a great comeback to sweep 
past Case Tech, 57-37, in its final meet of the season at Car­
negie Tech pool on Saturday, March 10. Despite its best time 
of the season (4:27.0), the Tartan opening 400 yard medley 
relay team of Brunson, Wachtel, Kantrowitz, and Burt lost 
to Case (4:22.3). In the 220 freestyle, Vandersalm (2:27.8) 
won easily with Rubin, doing his best time, taking third.
Dowach placed second in the 50^---------------------------------------------------------
freestyle. In the 200 individual four years ago, scored 275.75 (over
medley, Strasen (2:31.0 swam his 
best race of the season. Lester 
came from behind in the last 
length to place second. Snow and 
Oldfield swept the diving, giving 
Carnegie the lead which it never 
lost. In the 200 buterfly, Kantro­
witz edged Keefer of Case for 
second while being out-touched 
by the winner, Spear (2:40.4) of 
Case. Brunson swept past White- 
law, 1962 President’s Athletic 
Conference champion, in the 100 
freestyle which Kovvach placed 
third. Lester and Rubin took 
second and third in the 200 back­
stroke won by Crosby (2:42.2) of 
Case.
In the 440 freestyle, Vandersalm 
ended his brilliant career with a 
victory. Burt took third. Lester 
came back with an exciting sprint 
to cop the 200 breast stroke, as­
suring a Carnegie Tech victory. 
Strasen was touched out by Case’s 
Heger for second. The Carnegie 
Tech final 400 yard free style re­
lay team of Brunson, Kowach, 
Snow, and Rubin (3:59.1) swam its 
best time of the season, adding to 
the Carnegie victory margin.
The swimming team ended the 
season with a 3 win, 8 loss record. 
Next season the absence of the 
five senior lettermen, Tom Van­
dersalm (101 points), Steve Stasen 
(72.5 pomts), Ken Kantrowitz 
(53.75 points), Joe Oldfield (30 
points, and Ira Rubin (18.5 
points) will be severely felt. This 
quintet, the last remnants of the 
great Tech squads of three and
60%) of the 456 total points scored 
bj- the team this season.
TECH WINS 
FIRST PLACE
A team of undergraduates from 
Carnegie Tech shared first place 
with the Pennsylvania State Uni­
versity at Pitt’s Annual Tri-State 
Intercollegiate Chess Team Cham­
pionship. Carnegie ant. Penn State 
each had match scores of 4-1 and 
game point scores of 20-5. Pitt was 
third with a 4-1 match score and 
19V£-5% game point score. Penn 
State beat Carnegie, Carnegie beat 
Pitt, and Pitt knocked off Penn 
State, all by identical 3-2 scores. 
Andy Schoene and Bob Speer led 
the team on first and second boards 
with 4i/2-1/2 and 5-0 scores, respec­
tively. Leslie Maxwell on third 
scored 3-2; Bob Connelly on 4th 
scored 3 V1 -1V2. Romauld Wais- 
man, 1-1; Steve Strasen 1-0: Chuck 
Rosteh, 1-0 and Richard Zelonka 
1-0 contributed to the effort as 
substitutes. A total of seven teams 
competed.
The Penn State team was ac­
companied by International Chess 
Master Donald Byrne: a member 
of Penn State’s English Depart­
ment in his capacity as Team Cap­
tain and Coaeh.
ARMOUR IMPROVES 
HEAD PROTECTION
Improved protective football 
equipment which could lower the 
number of disabling head and 
neck injuries will be designed by 
the Armour Research Foundation 
of Illinois Institute of Technology 
in a study sponsored by the 
Brunswick Foundation, it recently 
announced.
Armour Research Foundation, 
announcing initiation of the com­
prehensive project, said that the 
advanced program will consist of 
four phases, at the conclusion of 
which prototype equipment will 
be tested and compared with gear 
now in use.
Under the first phase, Armour 
will compile and study existing 
information to establish what per­
formance protective headgear 
must achieve to be effective. Data 
will be obtained through medical 
records of specific causes of major 
football injuries; interviews will 
be held with football officials, 
coaches, and players; and a study 
will be made of government re­
ports covering development of 
protective headgear for military 
personnel such as astronauts, 
pilots, and tank drivers.
Outlining some equipment 
changes he thought might come 
about, a designer said, “The ap­
parent low incidence of head in­
juries, where resilent material has 
been used in conjunction with rig­
id or semi-rigid helmet shells, may 
suggest some inherent advantage 
to the more resilient construction.
“It may be advisable to initiate 
work on the development- of a 
composite helmet structure made 
to have greater inherent resili­
ence. Such a composite may re­
sult in an inner and outer plastic 
shell of lighter gage than the cur­
rent plastic headgear, to be filled 
with an exDanded resilient foam
/. Af. tijN.y TFaON b:
The Musical Theatre Academy of N. Y.
announces their first accelerated Summer Session 
for a limited number of people who want
CAREERS in the MUSICAL THEATRE
An Important Message to Beginning 
and Professional Performers
Why a school specifically for thi Musical Theatre?
It is a fact of stage life today, that if you can 
work in the musical theatre your opportunities 
for success are about five times greater than if
you can work only in straight plays. But, up to 
now, if you wanted to learn acting, singing and 
dancing for the musical stage, you had to run 
from class to teacher to coach at a cost in time 
and money that was prohibitive to most. These 
are some of the reasons that made it possible 
for the Musical Theatre Academy to assemble 
the most distinguished faculty, advisors and 
directors ever brought together for a single 
project.
Unfortunately Mr. Meisner, Miss Holm and 
Mr. Engel can accept only a limited number of 
students. But, if you are accepted by them, you 
will be admitted to the Academy for intensive 
class and private training in Acting, Singing and 
Dancing culminating in our workshop produc­
tions, where you will perforin for the people 
who write, produce, direct and cast the great 
musicals of America.
<<««««<£<
Write for brochure.
THE MUSICAL THEATRE 
ACADEMY OF N. Y.
245 East 23rd St, New York 10, N.Y. 
ORegon 9-2730
<««««««
Faculty
SANFORD MEISNER, Acting 
LEHMAN ENGEL, Music 
HANYA HOLM, Dancing
Board of 
RALPH AISWANG 
RALPH BELLAMY 
LEONARD BERNSTEIN 
JERRY BOCK 
ABE BURROWS 
MARGE CHAMPION 
HAROLD CLURMAN 
BETTY COMDEN 
CY FEUER 
ADOLPH GREEN 
E. Y. HARBURG 
SHELDON HARNICK
Advisors
GARSON KANIN 
SIDNEY K0RNHEISER 
GODDARD LIEBERSON 
JOSHUA LOGAN 
GEORGE MAREK 
ERNEST H. MARTIN 
JEROME ROBBINS 
HAROLD ROME 
DORE SCHARY 
STEPHEN SONDHEIM 
JULE STYNE 
ROBERT WHITEHEAD
«««««<« 
ACCELERATED 
SUMMER SESSIONS 
FOR COLLEGE STUDENTS
from July 9 to Aug. 31
Intensive training in singing, 
acting and dancing. (8 weeks)
BASIC TECHNIQUES
Acting, Singing and Dancing 
or Beginners and Professionals
FALL TERM starts Sept. 24 
(16 weeks} Because of limited enrollment 
we recommend early applications
IBMWILLINTERVIEWMARCH
2122
IBM
Endicott, Kingston, Owego, Poughkeepsie, 
Vestal, Yorktown, N. Y.; Burlington, Vermont; 
Lexington, Ky.; San Jose, Calif.; Bethesda, 
Md.; and Rochester, Minn. Headquarters is 
located in New York City with sales and serv­
ice offices in 180 major cities throughout tha 
United States.
The Accent is on the Individual: No matter 
what type of work a person does at IBM, he 
is given all the responsibility he is able to 
handle, and all the support he needs to do 
his job. Advancement is by merit.
The areas in which IBM is engaged have an 
unlimited future. This is your opportunity to 
find out what that future has to offer you. All 
qualified applicants will be considered for 
employment without regard to race, creed, 
color or national origin.
Your placement officer can help you to learn 
more about IBM. He can give you literature 
describing the many career fields at IBM. He 
will arrange an appointment for you with the 
IBM representative. If you cannot attend an 
interview, write or call the manager-of th« 
nearest IBM office:
R. W. Paulin, Branch Manager 
IBM Corporation, Dept. 882 
421 7th Ave. 
Pittsburgh 19. Pa. 
Phone: CO 1-6880
You naturally have a better chance to grow with a growth company.
Candidates for Bachelor’s or Master’s De­
grees are invited to discuss opportunities in:
Engineering and Sales
This is a unique opportunity to find out about 
the many career opportunities at IBM. The 
IBM representative can discuss with you typ­
ical jobs, various training programs, chances 
for advanced education, financial rewards, 
and company benefits—all important factors 
that affect your future.
SOME FACTS ABOUT IBM
An Unusual Growth Story: IBM has had one 
of the exceptional growth rates in industry. It 
has been a planned growth, based on ideas 
and products having an almost infinite appli­
cation in our modern economy.
Diverse and Important Products: IBM devel­
ops, manufactures and markets a wide range 
of products in the data processing field. IBM 
computers and allied products play a vital 
role in the operations of business, industry, 
science, and government.
Across-the-Country Operations: Laboratory 
and manufacturing facilities are located in
