Men must be at liberty to 
gay in print whatever they 
have in mind to say, pro­vided it wrongs no one. .
—CHARLES A. DANA3TKc âFarneçjie ^Tartan
Today’s Editorials 
We Answer Mr, Hearst 
A Vast Contribution
VOL. 29, .NO.; 10CARNEGIE IiNSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, NOV. 27, 1934
Carnegie Day 
jervice Held 
|n Music Hall 
This Morning
phi Kappa Phi, Tau Beta 
Pi, Eta Kappa Nu 
Call Members
WRITER FOR LONDON 
riMES IS SPEAKER
Scholarship* Cups Awarded
Sigma Nu Wins Fraternity 
Scholarship Cup With 2.331
Beta Sigma Rho 0.008 Behind; Alpha Kappa Psi 
'Heads Sororities for Fourth Consecutive Year; 
Boss Hall, Forbis Halt Also L.ad Lists
Caraegie Day. Esere/ses were 
this morning at 10:46 In Car* 
^•Vlegie Music Hall. All classes were 
^aaspended from 10:20 to 1:30.
§$$ Sir Wilmott Harsant Lewis, 
'¿•^Washington correspondent of the 
^London Times, delivered the prln- 
Siicipal address.
Honora ry Calls
Thelma M, Shelly '35
College of Engineer" Wllllani E. Bayers '35 
Alan C. 'Byers '35 Charlés E. Crede ’35 Morris Fisher '35 Robert M. Gerster '35 Francis V. Giolma ’3f
Robert A. McConnell '35 Willard J. Osborn '35 . W. James Sharbaugh ’35 College of Fine Arts ' Helen M. Bruce '35 Francis O’C. Church '35 Dane -D. Morgan ’35 Ri|th Schoenberger ’35
ETA KAPPA NU : Robert C. Coblentz. '36 -T-Owan~-C^Coho.!36-i'-.--- ¦v."Röb'ert‘ Hi' Deahl '36 • Paul H.; Dltzler ’36 •'J 'Nelson Jones '36 John C. Latham >36 Robert C. McMaster ’36 Peter H. Wyekoff ’36 ' John B. Rice ’35 . Harold J. Corning ’35 Michael Kovacevlch ’35 Francis Mertz'^5 ' William A. Meszaros '35 Michael Voytilla '35
TAU BETA >1 Richard W. Dennison >36 Lawrence W. Ingold ’36 Jack E. McKee '36 Donald L, Ashbaugh ’35 William E. Bayers '35 John E, Born *3$Harry. E. Fitzgerald '35 James W. Herron '35 Arthur R« Kommet '35 Harry L. King *35
Frank E. Rath '35 Harold A. Thomas '35 John W. WagenseH '35 Robert E. Warren ’35
Three hohbraries made 'their ml-annu&l calls. They ' .were: Phi Kappa Phi, national scholastic irv, Tau Beta. Pi, national honorary, and Eta
Hanna '3E>, to the two engineering
Charles 'Watkins, acting president of Carnegie during the absence of Dr. Baiter, awarded tH« fraternity, sorority, and dormi­tory scholarship cups.
special section of the M$usic Mall, in the orchestra circle, is re­served for the holders of scholar- * in recognition o£ th'eiv scholastic achievement. ' '
Secretarial Jobs 
Available inTenn.
Competitive Examinations 
Will Given Soon
Word has been received by- the Bureau of Recommendations that there are openings for women sec* rolarles with the Tennessee Valley Authority.- Competitive.* examina­tions under the direction of Miss Edlm Winchester, Department of Secretarial : Studies, will be held in the very near future to deter-' tnlne eligible candidates.
Yhé Authority representi'ff iiuBt construction project in the Ten-
'Our preliminary requirement consists of $ speed;.test inst'raíght' conv wnri,_____________i*____J.the' typewriter andcopy .work
irking shorthand P‘icant is considered for' appolnt- 
las not demonstrated his _ , . - ~~.,ity to tyne at a sneed of l06S than sixtv words a minute o«t and to take shorthand at from to 120 words a minute or over.r
,accompanied by a neat, rapid, and •curate transcription."- says. C.- L. ic*ey Director oC.Employmenl
The Sigma Nu fraternity with an average of 2.331 heads the list of fraternity scholarship ratings for the year 1933-34. and will bold the new fraternity scholarship cup for one year It was announced at the Carnegie Day exercises today; Awards were also made at this time to the highest ranking men’s dormitory, women’s sorority and women's dormitory.
The new cup l*«s been given by Ph| Kappa Phi, all campus schol­astic honorary fraternity.
wiucn was awarded permanent pi session of a cup lost’year after leading for four consecutive years, ranked In second place,
2.227, were, listed third and fourth respectively.Last year the Sigma Nu frater- ly was in eighth place having an ¦erage of 3.57. To be given the cup permanently it will be neces­sary for Sigma Nu to lead the list Ice in the noxt four years.
Add Provisions' 
To Constitution
Arts Senate Votes No Girl 
Can Be Class President-
Alpha Kappa Psi which won per* manent possession of a sorority scholarship cup last year lead, the' six Carnegie sororities for the fourth consecutive year with an average of 2.69. Gamma Gamma Gamma and Phi Delta Mu ranRed in
ity listed average of 2.36.
Boss- Hall’ with an Average of 2.229 ranked ‘first in the list of men's dormitories. Scobcll 
wtffAri»ri. »«no Msecond and third respectively.
The leader in the list of the men’s dormitories was Forbes Hall, which had an average of 2.38. Sec­ond and third places weut to Mel­lon Hall, 2.29. and Cedar Hall, 2.25.The first three sororities In the 1932-33 ratings were Alpha Kappa
Boss Hall, and McGill Hall ranked In that order In the men's dorms listing, and the leading r won
Closed Rushing 
¦ Ends Tomorrow
C o n t a cting Period Begins 
Next Monday at 4:30
The Arts Senat® added 
visions to its constitution at its 
last meeting. The first wae that 
the president.of a class shall- be a 
an and the vice-president shall 
> a woman.
The second was that the. offices 
of vice-president of the Arts Sen­
ate and vice-president of the senior class shall be considered as two separate offices. (Hitherlo these two offices had been combined in-
These provisions were made in lieu of the recommendation of last year’s Student Council that thd senates of the various colleges re­vise their, constitutions paying par­ticular attention to those ques­tions- which have been points o< <»ntrov«r.0y^n;-tUe;^aet.-.^:r^:f.ov- 
. JLast .year the case aross where in a woman desired to run for th>/ presidency of her class tut was not peiiniLLed io because of prece­dent The first provision is being Incorporated into the copstltutlon
Ruth Nichols
Will Addregs 
Next Assembly
Famed Aviatrix to Tell 
Of Air Experiences 
During Career
SET NEW ALTITUDE 
UECORD IN 1932
Founded AviationMagaziuej 
Participated in Major • 
Flying Competitions
Ruth Nichols, nationally known 
aviatrix, will speak at the monthlv 
assembly to be held next Tuesdav 
in the Carnegie Music Hall at 11? 30 
«. m. She will speak, on a topic re­
lating to aviation.
Miss Nichols was the first Inter­
nationally licensed woman bydr 
airplane pilot. She is the .only 
woman to have held three worl.d 
records in different classifications 
at tho same time. These 
'Women’s Altitude Record, Speed Record, and the Long Dlstkn Record.
The altitude record : women for Diesel footors
to prevent enof thatcontroversy and to definitely es­tablish Jlhe fact that wlyyeas wo­men 'will'not be permitted to run for the presidency .of their class they will be assured the vice-pres­idency.
The second provision Is being in-
tlon of women in the College o' Fine Arts is greater than that of the .men.- This .will .provide for
ceive the approval of Student Council before they cap be includ- -ed lu the constitution.
SENIORS NOTICE
Today and, Wednesday
rushees at the time scheduled the dating cards sent out to all freshmen nnd the fraternities by the -Council.
Restricted Period Ends Tomorrow 
Tomorrow the restricted period closes at 9:00 p.' m. From then until 4:30 p. m., Monday, Decem­ber 3, no fraternity may contact or speak to a rushec. This is the si­lence period. At 4:30 p. m., De­cember 3, open ruBhing will pre­vail and last until 12:30 a. m., Sunday, December 9. No dates may be made directly by a frater­nity: with a.freBhmaii before open Tushtnirperlbtt aiid^!o~bltfs'-mny 'be' given before'Tuesday, December 4, it 4:30 p. m.
4All rushees .must be out of the fraternity houses by 8:30 tomor­row evening and out of' the pres­ence of fraternity men by 9 o'clock even though • Thursday is not a school day. This Is an exception to the rule of rushees being out of the presence of fraternity men by 9 o'clock on an evening before'a school day.
New Period Eliminates Troubles 
The new four day restricted rushing period should help the-fra­ternities and freshmen to avert many of the troubles* which arise each year through misunderstand­ing, pre-rushing, and Jaxlty of time for. .both the fraternity men and freshmen to judge best 1n ,thetr
present the charges to -the Coun-
ed to the Council, but there
3 ünembéré o! the CoSin.-
sphere Did You Get TliaSrChapeau-or 
Why All Good Plebes Leave Home!
Odd Creature Found Lurking 
. About Campus Wearing 
Weird Disguise
• "Who is yon fellow with queer 
pointed hat with plaid band .and 
black cravat? Why* does he doff 
said hat in reverence as lie passeth 
before yon fence? Let us approach ^nd question him as to his odd be­havior. Never before have we ob­served such as this jon our campuo.
‘Oh; I say, my ‘good fellow. J have been watching you for the past few minutes and wondering why you have donned such a. hat and behave as you do before this fence. Is It that you are a member .Qf.spfne .o.r)enj£l cult and that these things'1 have some mystic signifi­cance associated with-them? Is, per­haps, that hat to.ward.oil the pro-
la. member of-a mystic order. These things wae t ordered to wear and to do by the members of the most holy order c: Cutlasses, who have sworn that unless,! so do, their wrath wilt de­scend upon me and I will be subject to the most dreadful of ordeals. Now, sir, do you understand why I
low.io/contJnuft ‘our wanderings add to remark that he who had said that truth is stranger than fiction must have been indeed gilted with divine Insight.
We might have started this with: 'Todav the ptebes throw . away
liars and a flnr Ox that would be.
Polish, German 
Dispute Reviewed
Safety Valve’-members who ex­pected to. hear a talk on the phil­osophy of Fascism, at their meeting lost week heard instead a histori­cal sketch and travel talk on the Polish. Corridor by Dr. Dirks of Duquesne University.
Dr. Dirks, who has recently come to this country from Germany, con­fined his talk to a survey of the history and conditions of the Polish Corridor and an offer of induce­ments for visiting Germany.
He hesitated to express an opin­ion on anything thing at all, but he did say that, since Hitler has as- suméd" cohxrol’ oi "the- German gov-- eminent, Polish-German relations
Speaking, of war, he said that the corridor may .be- & cause.for future war, but a^ long as there is poverty, there will be no war. • When there is no'money and no credit, there can be no war.• He" refused • to make a direct statement of any opinion,. and did .not answer satisfactorily many of. the questions asked him by mem- bera of th'e gro'up.The Safely Valye plans to con­tinue Itajenrv.es^of the various;, pro- .pbsaJs. .fO£c.*'_-Tiew'. social order, but has made no definite anangements for a speaker for its .next meet­
ing.The next meeting will be at 12:30 on Thursday.: December 6 in Room 113. s Engineering Hall. It has been decided to change the hoUr from 11..0 to 12 0 bo that xncro people will be able It» attend
made by Mls9 Nichols in 1932 when she soared to a height of -19,928 feet. She-also bolds-the wi West ’ to East Transcontinental Record as well as a number of in­ter-city speed laps.
Several college groups have been jyjchols. These iuclude vassar, .Mount Holyoke, Skidmore, University of New Hampshire, and Wellesley College.
Miss Nichols was one of the founders and editors of America1! first aviation magazine devoted ex cluslvely -to private flying, namely the “Sportsman's Pilot;” She was the first woman executive of a mil­lion dollar aviation corporation.
Sixty Answer 
Sorority Bids
M. M. Societies End Ten 
—Day liu9hing Period
Sixty girls- accepted the bids the three sororities of Margaret, Morrison Carnegie College at the. conclusion of the fall rushing sea­son. Alpha Theta Sigma pledged 23 rushees, Gamma Phi Sigma 16, and _Knppa Phi Delta 22.
After a., rushing ..period..of-.ten days, duration, aoroi*L£les sent bids to the selected rushees. The fol­lowing are the pledges of the ous sororities: Alpha Thetama: Vinnie E. Baker ‘37,H. Chancellor ’36, Mary B. Duncan ’35, Claire A. Frederick ’37, Clara E. Hall ’36, Ruth J. Kennedy ’36; Florence H. Kuslan '35; Mary Alice Lamb ’37, Margaretha W. Lang ’36;- Mary Lou Lowndes ’35, • Vera M.- Markus ’35, Margaret. H. McKelvey 'SB, Miriam H. Mellon ’35, VirginiaI. Mpore ’36, Mary Alice Shields '35, Marlon Spellmtre ’37 Helen M. Steibel ’35, Dorothy J. Stevens
W. Westbay '35 and Virginia M. Whaley T"
Gamma Phi Sigma: Louise Baldy ’37, Alpha Jane Black '37, Frances I. Campbell ’37, 'Elizabeth W. Col- “ P. - CrKisiao.-
Ington ’37, Helen L. Stulen ’37, aud F. Virginia Yohe-T*
Kappa Phi 'Delt£: Mary J:aneAtkinson ,’3R,. Roxanne B. .Ander­son '36, Dorothy J. Booth ’37-, Dor­othy L. Farrell ’37, Anne Ferguson ’36, Virginia E. Filler ’37, Mary D.
Nlchol ’35, : Ruth A. Nichols ’37, Jeannette C. Paul "37, Elinor K. Rankin '37, Ollve/H. Robinette ’37, Betty Schoenberg *37, Dorothy J. Taylor ’37, Mary Lou Thommassy '37, Jane F. Tiernon '37, and Clara M. Weller ’35. ^
Masons Make Plans
For Citmas Dinner
Carnegie’Masons' wiil hoW- tbei Christmas Citmas club meeting o Monday evening,-. December 10, a 5:30 p. m. in the new Faculty Club
• Prof. Robert B; LeighdlijTliead 5ofthe .^Department of Industrial' Sci­ence’ r¦ chairman of 'the- meeting- The program^ • which» la ' being planned by Prof. Lelghou and. Mr. Lawrence H. Miller, superintendent of equipment, will be typical of the UhhstOittB aeaaonv... • '
Dean Arthur W. Tarbell has pi pared a talk for the meeting. He will speak on “Cape Cqditles.” The address wlll.be illustrated with coloredr'sifdes.
• The new Faculty Club Room is locate'd" at tfife reir ot the- Comm'ans Annex building.
-Any day or night sludentwhojs
• - •_________. - :
Assembly Speaker
Tuesday In the Carnegie Mu6lc
Welfare Drive 
Closes Today; 
Expect $6,000
Mr. Beatty Reports Total 
Of $4,661 Contributed 
By Friday Noon
The Welfare Drive, under the di­
rection of John D. Beatty, Bureau 
of Recommendations, closes today. 
The time was ofncially extended last Friday. At that time Mx. ,'ftollin V. Davis, treasurer for tho student - contributions, reported that $152.10 had been given by the students during the week.- This brought the student fund total up to $202.00, as only $49.90 had been reported before.
^ Friday noon's figure as given, by M!r. Beatty also- revealfed that a total of $4,661 had been collected from the school and Carnegie In<
responded, with .$3,290.26, to Mrs. <L. J. Mpore who is treas- jirer for the- faculty. Mr. Georgo *F.* Sheara - reported'.$l,168;75: ifor 175 members of the Carnegie In- stltu te staff.
It Is .expected that the estensiou of- .the Welfare Drive until today will bring the total up to the ro«\1 of :$6.000 for the three contributing groups. Many students promised the canvassers during last week that they would contribute to the
International Awards 
Popular Prize of $200
Visitors to the 1934 Carnegie In­ternational Art Exhibition are in­vited to cast their ballots for the prize painting in the exhibits. The popular prize voting will continue
Carnegie Iron Men Line Up 
Against Mighty Pitt Panther
A Message to the Football Team <
P
ERHAPS never before iii the history of the Curnc^ie-l*itt 
game has n Carnegie team entered with the odds so solidly 
against it. Considering the records of the two teams it is easily 
undersood why the Panthers are so strongly favored. But there 
are a few reasons why we refuse to accept as. gospel the predic­
tions as to the outcome of the game that are based on these 
•rds.
Two teams represented Carnegie on the gridiron this year 
-7-the one that, went through the schedule us a matter of course 
—and the one that faced Duquesne. We are concerned only 
with the fighting, scrapping, .inspired bunch that dcfeutcd the 
Dukes. They possessed a certain stolid, rocky impregnability, a 
certain indomitable quality, fired from within, that would, shine 
in defeat as well os in victory. If Pitt must reekp« witJi that 
spirit, we refuse to be pessimistic about tho game. •
We believe that if tho teams were matched irian foi1 man, 
there wotiid be very slight difference between the two.-' The 
Skibos have needed only the spirit to inako them click, and thoy 
did click in their hist game. They have shown us that. they, arc 
a courageous and determined team. To that team, then, we sny 
only this: • . . v
“Behind you is ns solid nnd‘ns loyal a block of supporters 
ns any team ever had. It hones to 'feee that same courageous, 
detemined spirit against Pitt.’*
No school could ask more of its athletes.
Three One-Act 
Plays Planned 
For Matinee
Plays Written, Directed 
Under Supervision 
Of Prof- Wallace
Three one-act plays will be pre­
sented at the Studio Matinee today 
at 3:30 in the Union; Administra­
tion Hall. All theeo plays were 
written in. Professor Chester Wal­
lace‘s class in play writing. , The entire program 1b under the. super­vision -of Professor* Wallace:
“Gray Eyed Morn;” a medieval mnlodrama. in blank verse written by Jane Livingston '25 Department of General Studies Is being di­rected by'Roy Minet. The cast in­cludes Barbara' Kocyan, Marlon Richards, and Ralph Nason. .
"Blood Will Tell,’’. Is a character study of two maiden ladles, by Dr. J.—C. Logan, Elizabeth Levlnger
Delke, Virginia Martin and Dorothy E. Sachs comprise tho cast.
"Dorm Mouse,’’ alao wTltten by Dr. Logan, the author of the sec­ond play in the program, Is dl- ‘ ’ ’¦ theby Marcia Leèly.
jeorgie Taylor, Barbara Burt
H^arst Answers Editors’ 
Questions on Nationalism
NtBtionfo M&st Influential-Publisher Prints Open 
Letter to President of Ass’n of College Editors 
Stating His Views on Disarmament
November 17,1934.
Atr. Francis G. Smith, Jr.,
President, the Association of College Editors,
354 Fourth Avenue, New York.
My! Dear Sir: . . .
’ I am happy to learn that Mr. Norman Angell'is a “probable 
Nobel prize winner” but I have not been overwhelmingly .im­
pressed by actual prize winners—as far as their political sa­
gacity is concerned.
Bccause of which (and irrespective of which), I do. not feel 
obligated to answer categorically disingenuous specious ques­
tions propounded on the recognized “have you stopped beating 
your wife?—Answer yes or no" basis.
Nevertheless, I have no objection to stating clearly arid 
comprehensively iny beliefs as to what constitutes visionary and 
what practical and patriotic internationalism.
I personally believe, in nationalism AND internationalism 
each in.its proper place.
I believe in benefiting all the people of the earth, whenever 
¿nd wherever wc can do so WITHOUT SACtilFICING*THE 
INTERESTS-OF-OUR. OWN PEOPJUK.....................
I believe in promoting the public welfare, but I do not’’be­
lieve' it necessary in doing so to be entirely indifferent to the 
needs of my own family and associates.-:
I believe iu loving my neighbor as myself, but I have: not 
yet reached tho point where I am ready to sell all I have and 
give every precious personal'and. national possession to covetous 
neighboring nations who desire them but do not deserve them;
I believe in good faith .and common honesty among indi­
viduals a«d-also among, notions, ............
I believe in honor even among thieves.
I believe that honest debts should be paid and a .word , of 
honor respccted among peoples and. politicians, even, when dis­
honesty and dishonor are momentarily profitable.
Pledges must not be given unless they are to. be observed; 
obligations • caaaot -bo. -GoatrftctM uDTe$s..;lhi?y...0T:e..to.: he ..dis­
charged.
• Business cannot be conducted unless the names on notes- 
and bonds are valid and honored.
International relations can never be. maintained on a tnend- 
Iv basis ot even on a business basis if all men are liars and all uations repudiators of ;debts and duty
(Continued oh Page Tjro.)
Pf
Pitt Pep Rally 
Will Be Held 
Wed. Evening
Panther Effigy Will Be 
Burned at Bonfire; 
Harpster Speaks
Plans for the Pitt Pep Rally .in the Carncfelo Bowl tomorrow night .«ro rapidly nearing completion un­der the dh'eclJon of Clyde Glschel, head cheer leader. The pep rally will begin at 7:30 with a parade, headed by the Kiltie Band, on Mar­garet Morj’Jspn street.•;'Immediately àftér-the parade-tho crowd will gather around a. huge bonfire1 in the bowl. - The feature of-the evening, Mt. Glscliel has an­nounced, will he the burning of an effigy of the Pitt Panther when the bonfire-reaches its height.
Make Elaborate Pfans 
Mb-. Glschel- says that elaborate preparations are being carried-tor-
captains “Dutch” Croft and “Lib1’ Lewis, and all the members of the football - team will be present to give talks. Between the talks there will be cheers, selections by the Kittle Band, and eongB.
Mr. Glschel hopes that this will be the biggest pep rally Carnegie has- ever witnessed. He says that enthusiasm stirred up at a success­ful pep rally the night before a game will show in the playing of the men on the gridiron thé next day.
Students Back Team
"if the team knows,11 nîr. üis . states “that] Oarhegfe ia baching them to the limit, and they play as they did in the Duquesne game, It will produce a combination which will be hard for Pttt to beît.- It ls lip to us to' turn out for the rally and show the team how we feel about ItV'The rally tomorrow bright will mark the last appearance of three senior cheer leaders, Clyde Glschel, William Davis, and jack Provoet at a function of this sort at Carnegie.
Carnegie ‘Y’ Sponsors 
Annual Turkey Dinner
The Thanksgiving dinner, Joint­ly sponsored each year, by the Car­negie Y. M. and Y. W. C. A., will be held in tho faculty room of the Carnegte Inn on Thanksgiving day atj»:00;
The dlnnflp is being held for all thoae students who .will be unable to go home during the Thanksgiv­ing recess. Tho committee in charge has requested that all who expect to be present at the dinner sign the list which is posted in the “YV Office before the end offu* day. : •: The Thanksgiving turkey dinner •fifty"Cea-tft; - A, will pay the balance.of the bill. There will be no-charge for dormi­tory .women.since the,dinner la.ln* eluded in‘their board.After the dinner there'will be an open house, radio dance at Forbes Hajl. ; ;
•a
Wee Scotch Lassie “Thdnkegiving” jerry Hanson. The Tuesdav Quar­terback.-Guest'Star. ’Campus Highlights •. ’ Wee Scotdr.LaasIe .:: :>.;T GueeB-It Had' to- Be that Way”1 Announcer;-:; CarUM:rDoier.'
Winner of Stadium 
Battle Takes City 
Championship ’
PITT IS FAVORED 
OVER SKIBO TEAM
Game Steeped in Tradition 
Will Close Football Days 
Of 8 Tartau SeniorB
By Jim Hughes nmml meeting het>athers and tho <____Tartans throalenod to vie with the proverbial Thanksgiving dinner for popularity in the minds of the grid­iron fans of Pittsburgh. This game between those traditional rivals lias always been one of the great­est interest, and since It has been mado a feature of Thanksgiving riay, tho Plll-Carnegle game Is fast becoming -a football clnRBtc- 
Wlnner Takes Title 
Tno City Championship had al­ways been more"or -loss- decided bv this game, but.In past vears. it has been without the reckoning of Du-- quosne. This year, however, bIiico the Plaid has already met nnd de­feated the Dukes, the winner oC this coining'battle will have un> disputed right to the football title of tho Smoky City.
Panthers. Favored In the general -opinion, the Pan' there are favored to take this en< counter. Some very- good rensons' are responsible for. this opinion, for • Pitt has already mot some of-the strongest teams In the country and has dropped only one game so far. . A schedule which includes Buch ; teams as Southern California. Min» • nesota, Noti*o Dnme. Nebraska, and Navy iu not one to be taken light­ly. nnd anyono with anv knowledge of the grand old gam© will admit ' that ah outfit which can stand tho ; teat of a.schedule Ilke thJs one. and drop only one game, must certain* • ly have the stuff.1 Of all these tenme. Minnesota was the only one which, was strong ioiigh-to- bredk\-up the -w Inn Ink ’
of that game was l3-7. which . although decisive enough, does’ aot?~ possess a margin compared to that-, supplied by the scoroe by which-:
Such scores ee 31-7 u«or •20-6 over Southern Oal; and 1D-0' qv£r Notre Damo are enough t© prove’ that the Scots are-golng^Of have the toughest opposition which- '; they have had to face so far thl&;
Promise Good Fight 
Although the Tartans have nof ..
game will nevertheless be tereatlng spectacle. That little mat- " ter of traditional rivalry may us«-:, ally he depended upon to make a :: good game between two te&me which.differ greatly In the-matter’ . of strength and previous accom«' pllshments. In the laat few years, - the Scots have usually been the • underdogs, but they have consist-': ently put up a good fight, and the •: encounters have bean good exhibl- : tlobs of football.
Mlhm, Munjas 
On».of. thf- feefcumi of the ¿pune:.. will he a miniature battle betwebs-^ the two quarterbacks. Joe Mlhm, of - Carnegie, and Miller. Munjas^. ct;"--
.the- Panthers.. As a peculiar
1934 Dollar Day 
Campaign Opens
Alumni, Students Contribute 
To Endowment Fun J
Today is Carnegie Dollar Dav,- tlve opening day of the eighth an­nual Dollar Day campaign among Carnegie alumni. Today each alumnus and student Is asked- to • contribute one dollar or more-lo the CaroegJo Endowment FuDd... Already $40 lias, been turned in-to the Alumni Office Contributions during the cam-.turned: over to thé^,
Corporation by which the school .", will, receive eight million dollars In- 19-46,,provided It has raised ^four .v million.During'the six veore that the campaign has been held. $2500 had ^ been raised by the Alumni Federal tlon, but more than half ; of-rthla^ was raised the first two years. Be*:^ tween now and 1»46 the monev col-
invested now will amount; vto’-. much larger 6um-ln twelvc years.^: The Dollar Dav plan was origin nated by JObn L. Porter. vlce ohair*^- man - of .' the. ' Carnegie Board 'of y Trustees, and has been In opera* tlon for seven years. The cam*w’-» paign-is-not-llnrit-ed-i-to—-oluaiali only but Includes all friends of the< school. Checks should be made. payable to the Alumni PedeTaUonv: and sent to . the Alumni .Officer List« of; contributors will be .poV-*.TUI»*,

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY, NOYESfBER 27, 19«
j5iUe (Satnc gie 3Tartati
Í , EHONB X4TTIO^ES ICTC
„WILLIAM LASPSBSBG ¦ " . 3nrN*szESor saxer_ û J_ RAPTRmnustsb salsti—S1ARCARST caiFFDC
V« e do not cuuuzzd me potc£*Jftat A1EERÍCA 
most be a^nate*? deffendedagaÍEs^ fcreasiaa. 
Tha poEnC- oî eêo6or§riÿ- yn'^Ttat '-'mtnty 
Be coosíár^red.'.^s ";Z]9- ADSQ ETATE cféfens¿' 
Too sag- Tib ajnnjv ita*7¿’ánd air forre- *eeood 
t» ceueiT ‘ Weciafe CÈac^ s6íÍ*’ an “irtrsâîa^fe 
minecesesary—that considering tie natural ad­
vantages that accrue to AS0SRTCA Si fts ro<a- 
tfac.Qc the.g.tobe and the topographical disp<Mi. 
tiois of its land, AÜEKiCA can be «jnits secure with much less.
By whae- f&ifißer. E&e3.-_eaß_ype ccrast'Tue the 
fact Chat i£ AMERICA does cot hare the- gxeac- 
est amounï oí armaments it wSr'he selling all
Ob Secpjad' .4
it-.
Dudïejr O. Pendieran, Jr.
Qào3é~Sfép EdnöiHöh
Wïli- «¡jdeaí? rb mofe-tfcuac -SÖ coOeges-'ktd fiiTersittes-. oe foreetl. against siieir wilt ti to- the "gaœ^'stepr o f ' military'tiafaEn •
¦ foETöw t£te calSngs¦ wüî they jsZAuretf— * - - *._'• — theS" COU5CÍSUCI5S? • £ His öCfeätiOCta* and stras eterj- precious, personal ,i=S _ the Bands at tte Sapreme Couit— perüiViœnational possessionneighboring .
• r - —--------Jare the \,u«b ubtc. fcmirersfCT set fts ftnpffcatioas ;exploitation Esy other | tn.g. nilicg will tafiuence "directly and indirectly 
fi'the character of the- m&ft— *—'¦ ’Let's omit tie pretty, meaningless phrases, ¡¡of tbe ether universities.3Ir. Se&rsC. , Let’s strip* ous- words of aC rs- \ Tiie esse concerns itself witb . ________
d«wn to har€ taels. f.of the FTniTereity off Southern Calxionts at Losr two .students
SPOETVS STAFF":MglHauu Aiiiiitoc
BÜSDíSSS STAFF; 3at AJIa
Loizna. SeiZA- 2¿CctciiM
CLBCULXSZQS STJLFF: Alberter. E_ Caadlmait. ¿. G^ná-i.Ptemliy. yo Bcttt. E.
SEAFF ASHST»: G. Sae FttHer.
We Ajjsw er Mr. Hearst
F°
My Dear JCr. Hsart,
KQK YOU TO dsclise to answer onr ques- 
s pertaps tfc« easiest wajr for 73a 
60 defend yottr policy of ae “arajr, angmi altd 
sir. force secoxril ter none.'’ Ton excuse yrarr- 
se££ by cTalntEtrg: that tiie questiaos were *le- 
.• ceitfcl and tmfanr. and. disxes*iniing. them-.
¦ Exerety state your beliefs ccncercing- naCfonaf- 
isni and mtemationaltsm ’¦ yoor ¦Exe way.
! Etereby ¦ avoiding tiie rist of eipoefcs, your­
self. and any fallacies ttet might exea t ta 
statu®.
. T __ . ...___T, ¿Angeles. ATonao Reyno-Tçfe, Jr. acá Albert Ham-43£ERICa is tfee Teadmç caeroct of tíre worfo , itfRr^ wb3 exoeîTesÉ for rsîcsîcs; as a œat 
VTîat £: does, tire policies |t perenes haTe 2 j e6r cr eoaseianee to iem the R. O. T. C. Tbes> 
tremeccous nifiiietce an the actions at tfee fïwys, 60th sons and sraadsoos- eï "MéÜiodis
ro-t ft-trip, ns.cííras' - Emioötere. 2tsTe a«eea pet «st of the ITnfiTemsft:.. .. I. * ^ |:ai=«e Qcta&sr. 1&33.In tzLLî positiva it raust aAJIC [or pesc r nac ^ i0 pregectfa^ fe-js çase. te the Court, Mr. Jgbi
for war. ^ Beardsîey «f Los Angeles, eoacseS for t£ce sca-För ic to> adopt the policy yoc propose—"*4û 'dents, argued as fallows: T£e R. O. T. C. js 
-----T j^-yy jjJj. totte ««çoaô tä> con®" i aß ia£«srïî part off t&* Federal Sîîlitasry Esíaib-wonld mean simply thâ;
AS AILMA34ESTS RACE which ^octd fc- 
2TitabIy lead to THE XEST WAR which 
wogM tce^ftabfy featf Co LB3UXBS
Sincerely yocr^.
WTLUAil LANIDSBERG.
A Vast Contribution
S
tudents at- carxegis nsi<~ but a
¦»asne conception: of tli* rast. extent of 
Andrew Carnegie's beoeiackioa to fifr woritS. 
Eis s£Cts wece the most ^art aot to chari­
ties lq. the current sense, relief of maneriai dis­
tress. bit ¿or meosssl and spiritoaf czEltrraiicc. 
H$- endowed undertakfnsa which in bis iadff- 
meat seemed best desigs-ed to piodcxee the 
mej'st 6eneScia£ results for his iellow-men.
Tpe- greatest single fomri&tion fowded &y 
him is the Carnegie loatitcte which £s. fa­
miliar to ail Cirnegie students- Hcs nest great 
gift is the Carce^fe institution at Washington. 
Its purpose i? to> advance fondameniial’ research 
in gelds not normaUy- coTered by the: activi­
ties o( other agencies ini to ccrneeatLral& Rs 
actenti-on cpon specific research problems. A 
few of the diTigiiiis off the Inatrtati&a are: 
Moant Wiiscm Obsematory. Department of 
Embryorogy, Dmsion of Historical Researt-h, 
Department oi Merffftap Astrometry.
jri 0110302.1: endo-wmetit is - the Camegfe
Hero Fund Comnassioo, toonded in 1904. The 
Comnjissioo grants awards to recognition -tit 
heroic sees ‘¦performed in the peacitol walks 
of Life“ Ini those- cases which have been per­
sonally i&,?estLg&ticd and in which cc&clcsive 
e-rtience is- obtained sbowtns that the person |
tife ia swing or attempting to aa^e the life. I 
of a CeEo-w-being- 
As a result df ICr. Carnegie’s desire to aid ! 
the profession off college teacher, the- Carnegie i
lisfcneot and coa-polsorr serriez ù of _ peace amounts to ao abndgsn
aBd ““'raiïie® Of Citizens e? ¿Eé ÍTarted Stases, thn-s Tiorating the nth Amend- meatr_ miiicsry trainiBg tmposei upon 
lc:?Qa.°.GL5 oWeciow. such as Hamilton and TÎo[atÎ€Ts' of the freedom cfReynolds, is. _ _____ w-
UgfeB goaranteed'iy'ífee.'IstXntema«a-E^ compalsory mflitary craicmg is contrary ter
tS'S6 -a n°<C C&e teiter of KeHoss ft«. J^iw í J?_ ^£fo?üa ^ ^ QO means_ this sort fcay. 
OMo StateÏÎ^I0^ÎJ!" ISS:*inpe,®a bom «rasp^soí ajmcary trawmg, coarse caosmg s coaanfttea 
Si r^JZ fscorty ntembere. mclndiog th& head ? K- T* c- TTort- to- be appa toted to io 
emptedlerrfew the objectors. Fiiteen ____
Tentions objectors; and the
The whole
the qaestrôtt oí whether “land grant eol-
oth^r sixteea. __
were ordered to drin or reave. SeTeaTeCtT
troversy seems to be rooted roiTO5 _ Hir'M“y*; ofl whether “land grant eol- 
In^n,h-P csT^ & Fniffersity of California .and Ohio State are examples most F^aire- the students to take military drift or mnst oafa- offer military trafning-. ia ¡¿e. Attorney General ntied that even in the land grant cS- leges. it is required ortl-y that naLitai-r tra£n- m& be offered.1- Rnlings of local boards off re- gsats and state laws have- farther confused the C5sn& imta now ic » one which only tire Su- Errerne Coon can antaiigle.
'^st^dents in California and
Anstyefs^^qrs’
% . Questions orí Nationalismm?
I beließe ia ¦(Costinced From PagVOiie.T "
„1,. . . - T- a"d *“ aH saas-measorei to pxamote pra,,at flome-and abroad and-smonç- Bâtions—BUT- PABTICL-LA¿LT AT HOME.
I believe that the best way to insure peace at home is 
1 out-of wars abroad and- oat or urme^saiy^jRiehiatioi complications .which may J«?ad to war.
I believe ia.disarmament -whexi nations are willing’io dis.
I believe in sustained ecoris to persuade nations to dLs;
But I do not believe that a rich and envied country 
r own should place itself in the position of a shortsighted
__a misguided nation like Chics, and leave itself open to attack
and exploitation by hiber nations which are ambitions, unsc-rop. ulouSr and AKSEED.
X believe in abawdoning our miiitaty forces when our peopl? 
0222 be safeiv and sarelr defended witbont them.
I believe in aBolisbiug the police force when there are no 
longer criminal elements to necessitate it.
I believe in disbanding the Sre department'when all th? 
houses are boilc &f non-infiammable materials.
E believe ia closing the idiot asylums- on the day when ti> fongeistich an obvious and urgent need for them.
The faet
does i _
affect as is the principie- behind 0«.^«
should the Court upbotd the mlfagSv wnn maaw rb«* .<• onid be in the pcwer of 
legally raíase edo-
affect nsr-bnt what does.
actios?
'¦oofd mean chat 
and Unive
_ t.h°?e ^h? dl> Mi adjost thetr ideá¿Lojhose of the UniTersity asShorities.
the other hand, the SnpremeShoold.* that ( titntiouaLnfffcary etfm_____and that we are allowed rourse of our Ifres by onr ds-n- ap* we- shali be a step nearçr I
an open mindedaess trom whfcír I real understanding between tn- '
..Bat ne-rertheless we contend that there are
¦ loopholes m yoTzr nationalistic, policies and 
'despite the evasive character of your Teater. ic
otQS can be used to nnccrer them.
Ccrrapíar.entl-y, It tetls ns that the best way 
ta maintain peace- is. to stay o-at of war. Ia- 
• deed a remarkable thocgút. Quocisg £rom yoar 
. letter—believe that the best way to insure- 
peace at hocrs is to keep oat of wars abroad
¦ scd oa oi unnecessary international comp-lfca- 
tSras which may lead £9 war.” Of conree—
. thaï scun¿3 fine—but is. it possible and if -o 
: how is tí to be done? Asé yoar incongruous 
answer is “Maintain an army, navy and itir 
ïurre second to cone.“ lie other words, eatftr 
.ËEtÉo an. armaments race with the rest of the 
•: ¦ world- and set the- pace-, I
“For a nacioa- to be- seccre under the cota- [ — . - - -
-J_T^fjr>Vr. prfa-cipls is most be stresser ítaa airr 1¡ Focmdatkiis for the Advancement el 'Teaching j. |
. “ possible rivai. What then blendes of the I toanaéá i& x5vG. • its 5.5isutry"fsi:ctíoa ¡; í 
: •• rivalí ts hs to go withaat defender How P ^ t&e sdmiaistrscion: of z system of old ag-s- Í } 
aàas« tf-*ase Ûf sseh o£¿zs=5 —¿cr «hîs ajannities, on a contraetuaí basis, depending oa ' *
?hB¿á siste tbe seiimiy oi the one means the f J0“*- payments- by the teacher and the ioati- 
fcsseurity of the other? Qoes WILLIAM RAX- I' ^utfois witit which he is connected- In connec- 
V.BOLPH HEAItST think that there is same 1 £^oc witis this- undertatiDg. crïu’caî smdSes of 
educational probtems. off Americao and Cana­
dian; eolleses are made.
Cimegie’à keen foresight was repealed in 
his founding the Carnegie Endowment for in­
ternational Peace in 10<l*. This foundation 
saelcs »0 ad^inc-i the cause of peace among 
nations. ta> hasten the nsaoneiacioa of war as­
an fostnuneat ef cationaí ¡>oIicyr to promo:e 
methods for the peaceful settlement of inter- 
national différences. The aim of the Endow- . [¿ni beiîWed to 
ment educational work is. 50 promote she ad- ): Uy of a. warless world taken fai 
vancement and efinsioni oí knowledge and cn* [• Wltf* modem youth today Ues the choice be- 
dsrstandms nuni the peoples of the worii | °1<ier sezerzcioa £3—/> _ .. . i ^treaiy possnig, the war generation, shatteredThe Camssie .Cocporatioa of ,\ew \ors, ¡ and ^bankmpt. recsae»!? pocreâ âway ^î
D it in the air 
: bat they* mast % 
. it's' alC about, bni
A. C. E. Horizon
by 'which e&ch 
' d2te-other?
in- order to. be secure, AMERICA mast 
herséíf stronger than a rival, dises Wii.- 
. '.yj*« gapwhvdw HEARST snzgeet that that 
Tirol 'wilt accept tbs situation, and not resort 
-.¦•'Bo alliance ma'AmsT
S'. •¿.“EG.oa the greonds oi oztio^zl seenn:yr 
i,'-.: JLSíBÍéECA cannot, accept the prepoadevaaee c£ 
•. • fforeiga combtnatioa, why aliaald AMERI- 
-.:’CANS’expect foreigners' to accept THEER5. 
¿ ¦»spi&ciilljr as che£r prepocdersnce (the 
:;..ÍiEBS> resulted in imposing npom their rivals.
toeaty wbieh HR. HEARST himseU refer» to 
V; : ¿S- the -1ITTKR IXJCSTICt: OF THE VER- 
iv ,.£A£LLES TFtEATT."
t£-AiIEEtICi were-, to heed WILLIAM 
RaXBOLPH 1SE4RST and enter the arma- 
“ •¦cients race—where would it. end? Woai'd ic gji
¿J.sar,=r,3e £trHS~!?!T.«Í7' for-5om^ííiÍB/r is is almost 
'inevitable tiiat íe wíLí happen. Most che peo- 
" 'ples of the world bear heavy tasación to shtj- 
V.' a method test didn't work in ESIiT 5Eis- 
:.tfey es» ceaeh valuable lessons if. the world -7 ¿ad peopis like-• WILLIAM RANDOLPH 
.'¿HEARST are. willing to learn-
’’To« state tiiat yoc -aelxes-e honest debts
- .siioalá be paid and a word of honor respected 
.«¦’.aasoca peoples end politicians, even wb.ee dis-
•fcoaestv an<t coshotor are momentarily proat-
- : --“Fiedsss mEst ,s ft* eis-en unless thev are
to he ©üsárved;- -shi'^aticns cannot be- con.-- 
--firacted nntess. the-r are to be discharged."“
- £&ss<sa<i of Posing oorsííres in high sonndug 
p&cases. Mr. Fiearst. let's deal reatisttcaUy 
:v with the facts. Suppose those war debts- are 
sett- pafo. r& it to be expected that nations was 
¦ ¦ Bsve not ssú cannot sufficientír recover from 
•the ecoaotexe crippbn? of the last war can 
. p*y their d«bts? H&v? EspeciaQv if an arma- I 
•-«jaee'Ss'-íaíÉ'-as- baSsig- wyffed-e.'nt íít^- r^ooíe off ! 
->‘that BStion are a£re&dr paring Iteaw tnbn: 
to h^abs m the form oí iar^e armies-an 
¦'¦_3ssti€s And is it-to be expected.that the t&ird
• aad.:.foar£ii gEoerations after the war shemid 
. sslneit. calmiy and placidlr to p£«Tng debts
¦\h&r had no hand m incnmng? lender what
• jramft do yoQ caB that jnsttre?
- .-•• Toar mentígü of tbese debts m coimectioa 
ijli yoar po£Ecy 03 armaments mtlmaEes to
"TB tJiit 'perh&ps &e".tfisó -s^y iff?ae wti?.o.,iS- 
¦¦•;jrC¿5be >roper for AÜBSICA to collect thcne
- ' by forces If we are covrest in oar is 
--.tftrprelatioa sad that, dtonghc qo^s estst, ih€5
perish . the thoo^tt. Those debts can never 
rebUected by foixa. That would ostr-disa- 
íTiitínlMaf-'IÉW" 'a*rv;asi>‘-«r5p52Ei----«cccsii.C;. 
^ttrsctnrc ot the debtor nadoa and make even 
i ' impossible any chance of pdsymect. . .
^on W1UÜM RANDOLPH HEARST ad- j 
¦ft tKat- aHhongfe he ha<* Sfc3.de
the snbi«ct he has not come to reatfze I 
^BPbyal>{fc deter are the necessary legacy I 
EjH-SffSE. there .are-no victors. |
TOU GUESS . . . Too can sm
The fraternities all dread
The plebes don’t know wh;
The donas don't even- care about ft. CCept Minnie.)
Tae co-eds get loads and loads of dates daring :c.
And everyone is gra^r when it’s over.
Ton said it. Rcshios Seasoa. Sunday- oshered It fa with a 
baag. . . . Smiles . . . Handshakes . . . The lowly ptebe. now 
cock of the wait . . . Some taking it . . . Others letting it get 
tae best of them ... And with it ail. the usual run of boners 
wkicb at least ease the strain.
OF NOTE . . . Kappa STg Hays. Dragon. StU- Coancil Treasurer, 
ec ai, calling at the P K A boose and having one of tbe bros .*J1 
surllesv fifp him She ontsfirete-hed paw with “Sorry. I haven't met 
yon. Adamson's my name." Teh. Tch.
And the Belt hand-shaking line so Tong that several times 
the poor out-going piebes tnrtted and fais-wetled the boys waiting 
there to take th*m to another bouse. To- every cze-'s amusement
A barEy freshman, one of the “other side of tbe track, Mickey 
himseir’ typ% at the Beta house growling abont the minute size 
of his coffee serving. -It's s demi-casse,'’ chirped Scotty. Came 
back ­.M hero, “'Looks dec small to me.”
THESE. THAT EtOTS - - - And here’s 
and means, committee’* reports from a ! xatwes-
“Wee WttUe" Clements stipem'sed the painting at the Sigma 
Xtt tifmse last Saturday night. Only one slip-up—he Torso? to re­
member £fcat a drier is necessary m ih? paint. Imagine his em­
barrassment whan Sunday morning rotted around and the floats 
still wet. It ait ended up wi& the boys wiping up the stuff and
Bat oftentimes I am competed to realize ti»at such a happy day is far distant. '
Sincerelv voors.
W1LLIÁÍÍ RANDOLPH HEARST.
sending It bacGL
Do a Biacfcwood has made aH the brothers at the A- T. 0. 
house get new soits (or rushing season. Be contends that a good appearance meaos as mnc& ¡ ~ - 
... Oh yes. his brether's j 
people these A. T. O.’s.
“Sbuffle" Burke was seen ia the vicinity or the Stratford 
Club aarly Sunday morning. It seems the P. E. is wasted a 
canopy and -Shoffle” was out to do his bes=.
Johnnie Richmond was all in favor of painting the stone 
pfifars in the front of the D. O’, house . . . But tbe rest of the 
boy? were pretty well acquainted with soc»e of Johnnie's jobs, so 
they just Eet him put a lock on the §arag?.
The E. D. R-’s have secured some1, very pretty curtains . . . 
thaaks to Dodo Shafts . 1 . That feejtoe touch helps a Tot.
The Kappa Sig^ splurged and bought three'piog poag balls.
To be used only by the rushees. The brothers win keep playing 
with discarded egg sfcetts.
, One of the &eta Sfgma Rho chaps fa and an admiral's uni­
form. Now Jerry Kappel Is their swanky doorman. Watch out for the goose.
WE’LL MISS HER . . . Eogenia Kehr. dramat and one of :he 
brightest of the MeTTon lites is with us no more. Poor health 
and n>?g Pittsburgh weather have resulted in her leaving bag and 
and baggage for sunny Arizona. Of course the gals gave her a 
big send-off- A real party at the Schenley with pop-, iee cream, and everything.
THATS STOPPING 'EM . . . Prof. Goodfeitow. fa his public 
speaking classes, keeps bis charges froi^ running on forever by 
tapping on the desk with his penen when their time is up. The 
other day he himself was giving loag-wioded criticisms on the 
variaos speeches and was just beginning on Tom Lord. True to 
J he stopped abruptly when Tommy took a chance andtapped his <
SILLY SCIMITARS ... An enterprising female reporter cftTliag 
the Scimitar prexy for news the other day was greeted with 
“Hello, Is that you, Toots.?" EtUie*- the Lennox-DeMoth" aEalr— j 
has progressed to that stage of the-"game or Harvey, the old 
¦“ feeling kittezish. Perhaps a check up is seeded
s; Brittain, zAMEFUCANDIDE. 2- author of the recently publish-«4 Testameat of Yontt.- is west tem in t-ngiana for her activities fa peace- morea-incs and for r.'ne "tmancipatiou- of her sex. Writ­ing £n the November Ilth tssne of the N*ew York Herald Tribane. she says:
“I do no: believe that she youthiul and in- strncted minoriiy ot modem youth wants wr ; .The old still privately believe that wn 
nature . . . ouh the cotiecp.iTe sys
founded te 19*1; was established for the par- [sweet wine of youth and' taíeut 
pos* of promoting the advancement ^rrrf dti-!. on®T 3 outstanding persocatiti
fosion of knowïedga and understanding amoUii i’l^eí5 Í’acís_ 2-ïuîüsr tüae spine of deteztisus,mPw »?,- TT_r.^ a o-._._ !¦ “eTer'permitted ia war. which lies- like a Jj-lLghttfee peopfe of the United states, and &y a later ! upca cfce 
gift, atso among those oí the British; DctniLttfas | “'Peace.' i 
and Coloaies. The Corporation has received |;°- war. but 
its phmity Lûüfi-iù'ii tï>-âe«"t3t iHïl -3Í -az.-<2-“- Is0'1}' . .* 
erating agency but rather of a helping agsucy [ ÄhilTtle^cti 
for other Carnegie endowments. The income Etions of that
f recoast ruction. i Spinoza, fs not the ab. firne boro from strength
i liquid a‘adership-. which has b<J pinfaJIy re-echoed- from edaeacor to eÁcator'1 
p??t Céff. seems, to have had I. i little effect, if ojudge
lisiiatfot has US .ought sad action.
es. Stains &re
nacqualntedCcivei
000,000,
A trust for tile Universities of Scotian» 
established at Edinburg. One half oi ti 
dowmeoc went to improve bnzTdings and ap- i J^*Ci
paratus. The remainS&g tali goes toward the. r potsc " before i
payment oi class fees oi students of Scotch ^iead uadergfaj 
bicth or extraction. ' ji student gorenrmeats have-
Amesg oaher lar^e endowmeats of 3>Ir. Car- f rUEll,tlie. Ea?t- most m6mi. _ ................................... I tbe bast« of nocsIarit-T -negie are the Carnegie li cited cviigdcm ¡. Ttiey ar6. the ~«weli ges
Trust,, the Chnre'a Peace Union. Palace of ! apeak nicely to everybody 
Peace JThe R«sfcs;r and the FiC-Atnirica/: ' - - - - '
Union Suclding.
Mr. Carnegie’s gifts to the wortd amoun 
ïo Î35'i,«9*-6^3; of this sum S2SS.T4=5i50 wen' 
co the Taited States. He has m^de possibI< 
the erection of 1,23$ library buildings in th<
United States and î.-i'S church organs in the |-
wurid. Over S£S>33S,^$ ¿as beôtt girea lo ( any stand on the 3T O. T.~C. (e'ther
Amertcsa colleges, not including Carnegie. Ho |«tn); they wonld consider' it's personal dis-gare away ail his funds to the people of thç k- -* -*
worid'exefept -wii&ü -fi»-sst -asid^.
for Ms family.
No one hàs ever so* royally returned 
public what fee had drawn from them. An­
other. generation would have forgotten the 
mere successful business mac, however great; 
bus- it cnatd sat forget the splendid and perna- > 
nently useful gifts which he has endowed iL 
, Andrew. Carnegie ha& truly carried out his 
own conriciiocav th^t ^surplus weslth |$ a 
sacred trust.ia bVsdnffiiliitered îor. lâe ulgh-ist 
good of the people-."
TARTAN CORRECTiO«
fn the story on rushing which appeared Ease KcâFçj^Tc’^^EWAF^s - Shs-ai-Wîü. men?-,
tioced as receiving two dates during restricted rashiag as well as Beta Sigxna Rho.
ful magnificence' which i
cases, .they seem perfeciiy
“ " after year; their attitude" of 
fi councS activités
same people s
Penn State co-eds have discovered that, the old-fashioned • washboárd -nsakes'the whitest shirts. • The drawback is that whfle the board 
cakes oat screuty-sefen-pei .cent oC:t|ie .diii. t. strength <^. tíK ^ürts:ir~Rdáced: ^^.'7día
ÏSSSI
! complete icdifferei is truly amazing-.Whatever the objections to cfes" aad fraternity “ble<sPK tl}< tieaaNf-aora bsjltisy. tiisn tfte..Tbougit the Western coUeg^s ai- ^different problem, because of thetr larger si dent bodies. It seems safe to say that the' method wfcer&by candidates offer their piat-“ form before election is productf-- - • •and more intelligent action.
• particularly appropriate for*a change. ThróogW^he coturnos ot' the'news*' papers, students should be made to resize that all “swell gents” are not overburdened with brains, that “dignity- shoalá cot be the' only, attribute of a governing group, and that the members of student government should feel free and able .to' express themselves not only ou-local issues,-but.on the vastly ¡nor® important .national and international problems¿, 
.............. ... _ .. . ,

---------------------------------------------------

4ft.
THE
TUESDAY
QUARTERBACK
• ¦ ¦ ¦ 
BY JERRY HANSON
3 THE BIG CLASSIC VIES WITH THE TURKEY pretty soon no-\
? mark a finish to this season's. grid activities for the Tartars.
If tbe injuries'which;deplete tbe squad at preseut get a .chance, to 
jieal up In time, the Scotchmen will not only give the Panther a 
battle, but Ihey’U be out.oo the field "with lull Intentions to upset the 
dope. The confident guys who are' giving points had better slow up
Lebmsn and Spisak are still lame with pulled muscles, and Ter* 
ilc Terebus had not seen practice since the Tartans dunked the 
SDukes. Otherwise the team is in fine shape,'and growling for a taste 
f ot the Kitty.
\ WE RATHER WONDER WHAT JOHNNY ANDERSON has to attract 
e recent publicity! An epidemic of broken arms is expected. 
\ Andy doesn’t need the sympathy, really—he’ll get his chance next year,
Harpster has been saving him for a rainy day, and next year’s 
ledule is tough enough to provide the latter.
BASKH7TBAI>li} PRACTICE WILL CONTINUE SLOW Tor a spell, to 
.rork up in a cfcjpscendo climaxing in the meet with'Westminster,'Which 
iviu take all tbe Plaid cagers can give. Westminster has about the 
strongest five oT the district, and are In championship Ishape this year.
A good sized group is oat on the floor already, and a short rest 
!:|aftor Thanksgiving will And a number of football players out, to add to, 
'ijthe individual and group slz^ of the squad. A number of plebe grldders 
_jin the loop shooters, also, after they are finished working Pitt 
Splays against the varsity eleven.
right, too.
?JtkE SWIMMING TEAM IS MISSING SOME OF THE stellar material 
i In the past. In the A. A. U. meet of last week at the Pittsburgh 
sf Athletic Association, in which the Plaid was entered, the SkJbos scored 
L a single point.
Notable among the missing is “Ranny” Boyer. We hear from Mr. 
ver occasionally, and the^most recent info has It that he’s having 
| his usual trouble with fowl parses at the pretty waitresses.
If WE MUST RECTIFY ANY MISLEADING IDEAS vihlch might occur 
larding Carnegie boxing. Coach Ernie Sesto ie afrald that some good 
,terla1 might not go In for the sport In apprehension of cauliflower 
•s and what not. Boxing instruction is Coach Ernie's ware, and its 
¦J purpose is" to provide against Ju6t that sort of thing.
Mr. Sesto devotes every afternoon from 4:30 on In the gym to 
ichlng the punch-minded element—sc don’t be bashfut.
! THE RIFLE TEAM DESERVES OUR NOTICE AGAIN, for it is clearly 
¡heading for more national recognition, Thé dead-eyes are already 
* shooting jn veritable championship form, and interest and keen com* 
fpetition will bring steady improvement.
§THE ARCHITECTS SKIRMISHED WITH THE DRAMATS to the tune 
9 to zero in the mud last Saturday. The Dratf:ng Room aggrega- 
i had It all over the Actors In size and numbers, as well as mud. 
?The clever Arçh boys wore cleats, putting the. Dramats at a decided 
¡advantage...
Big Boy Hart starred for the Drafters. Joyce did a clever bit from 
[the play by Charlie Horse. Arv Biggin bears mute testimony to the 
natuiof the battle—a beautiful shiner!
Women9* Athletics
------by------ i
MARGIE GREEN
Last call lor the bowling season! In just two more weeks the tour­nament will begin, so all sixty of bowlers had better check up .’our records before it is too late, ne down to the alleys next Fri­day if you want a good opportu-
from cach classes will make the team and 100 athletic points. Mary Alice Shields, Mary Catherine SWell. and Ruth Weiler are all do­ng very well. As usual, however, » so-called ^lo^yly plebe, Louise Pace, is putting the rest of us to shame with a leading score- of 122.
Poppy Warner tells me that the basketball season will begin next Monday, December third. It has s been a lively one in previous Let me i'feTrrivid you of tho splendid record held by our presentclasNot I: have theybeen defeated in "the intramural
of wearing a traditional, uck green ribbon which teems lo direct the ball into the liands of her forwards every time lie jumps for it. (If a real chal- ‘ngp is .nil that you freshmen aro looking for, here is your chance for plenty tough competition.
All hoard members—attention, lease. To uvold any misunder- tanding, j -wish to correct my;
Beauty lines! Eveiy bot­
tle of Higgins* American 
Drowing Ink isfullofthem 
—free-flowing, brilliant,4
 precise and colorful—Iry 
o sef. M Waterproof 
Colors,. Waterproof and 
General Blacks. . 
--CHAS,ikt.HlGO!Mi-aCO.,tfle.. #11 Nlilh St,' ' liMkltih N. Y.
HIGGINS'
American
HIGNS'1 DAks
Candidates Called 
For Swim Managers
Coach Risedorph wishes to announce that there is ur­gent need for freshman swimming managers. Any freshman interested in this work is asked to report to Mr. Risedorph at his office on the secoad floor of the Gymnasium.
Hockey Team, lo 
Form New League
.Varsity hockey is under way once more at Carnegie with ar­rangements being made with. Pitt, Duquesne,- and the Duquesne Gar-
chasers will retain all of tlieir sity men from test year"*» success­ful squad. This group includes Fred Dubiu, Da^ve Higgin and Al Bell, Harv Lennox, Xdamson, Me- Clincy, Meyer, Dana, and Fia-
Monoie reasons that since we won’t have to pay for our dinner on Wed- iesday, December fifth, we may as
Tartans to. T'a e k l e • 
Touted Pitt P&ntheF
Gräüd Finale Is Local 
Battle with Team 
Of Nat’I Rank
¦ (Continued From Pago One.) 
sides, acting as the field generals 
of their teams, are also the punting 
experts. Mihra has made him6elf nationally prominent on the strength, of his kicking. By bring­ing his big toe into play, fttibm has taken the Plaid out of danger, sev­eral times, and was responsible for the Tartan victory over the Dukes. Munjas also is a bicker Of no mean ability, and there promises to be a good punting contest between tUese two player
players on both the Carnegie and the Pitt teams. When the first whistle blows, it will be ’the last opening kick-off Cor Co-Captains Lewis and Croft, sturdy Tartan chiefs. Besides these two, the Scots will also loose Burns and Goodridge, ends; Doloway, tackle; Vorderburg and W. Spisak, half-
11 do their best and last for Welostock. Munjas, Weis- enhaugh, Shotwell, and Captain
Positions.On Varsity 
Soccer Squad Open
up' until April. Games have been scheduled.
has been playing
adequate chance t
Sigma Nu Fraternity I 
Wins Scholarship Cup |
dorms were Cedar Hall, Forbes Hall, and Mellon Hall last year. 
The complete list of ratings fot
ïiÆÆ
16. Kappa Sierra •.
Women’s Don
HALF-TONES ETCHINGS 
COLOR PROCESS PLATES. 
PHOTOGRAPHY,
COLOR,NEWS and COMM ERClALj
Pittsburgh 
Trust Co.
Oakland Branch
Forbes and Meyran
‘THE OAKLAND 
BANK”
IN THE 
CENTER OF 
COLLEGE 
ACTIVITY
ftl K1.^ hk W. FEDEßAXi 
RESERVE SYSTEM
Defeated 2-0
Boys From Bridgevilie; 
Prove Too Tough
The Carnegie soccer team wa 
feated last Thursday at 'the hands 
oC a very strong Bridgevilie 
bination, 2 to 0. The kind i 
lions of “dame'luck” was all that 
bept the score from balancing fur­
ther in' the favor ot the opposing 
team. .For instance, one of tbe 
Bridgevilie forwards made* a shot 
at the goal which Kissel, stellar 
Tartan player, missed completely. 
The ball sailed by, but missed the 
target to rebound from the goal 
post, and was kicked again by a 
Bridgevilie man only to fly. above 
tbe goal.
The opposing team was much the i ‘
ic the second the Bridgevilie gang able to push through with a tt which Kissel at first averted by throwing himself to thé ground protect his goal; he was unable reach the ball, however, when sped towards tne. marker a sec­ond time. The second goal was made near the end of the game, hen the Bridgevilie inside right rove a speedy one pp6t tho Tartan goalie with unexpected adroitness. 3t before the-half period the ;r ball split on tbe 9eam, forc­ing the clubs to use an unfamiliar
sr of-the game.The team is just starting Its Bea­rn. and those scheduled for the next two weeks Include Geneva, Rochester, Swlssvale and Munball. Other games in the offing are City, (Harmony, and
?'iSt^ripigS^pii
Prospects Pood; Squad 
Developing Rapidly
With;, footbali ¦' season- ¡'rapidly 
nearing completion, the attc 
of the school is turning to Max 
'Hannum’s basketball squad which has been • slowly • rounding*'' into shape since early this semester. Practice has given the lads a chance to show their wares and so far the indications ' for the ap­proaching season are good.Sophs Add Strength .At present there are' ab'iul sev­enteen candidates out for the quad. Alter? football season Is
able t teams
powerful plebe outfit It looks like this may be quite HtsVo^ le. Such an arrangement shoul^peed up the Tartan attacl---------inbly and keen tho game
last without any „weak substitu­tions. . The- sophomores' on.*' thè squadi .Tvill ^dd' both- weight and height ,to the .outfit an^ . should
tnaJte it-.arStea'dler-team* AVpresàeric-they :ar&'lackiti£ 'the bnildo£ type ot guard such'as Silverman Leonard used to be. but Hannum may borahle/to. illl-this'. vacancy with, Carlson.
To-Meet Wllìlgs 
The schedule-is much the same es- last year's. However, ,the Ath­letic ' Council has consented tè ' ft Special preseason meeting with Pittsburgh's flashiest semi-pro out* fit, the Willies. This should be' ' exceptionally interesting game and a big drawing card in this city ai both teams have great potential! ties. The Willigs established, quite' i record for themselves last year ud have practically the same out­fit this season. The Plaid squad has been completely renovated and has à team which represents an un­known quantity. Their perfrom* In this game should be a good indication of the season's possibil­ities. ¦*
SQUIRREL HILL 
BARBER SHOP
5323 FORBES STREET
’ v „ ,.wy.-JUELEJWTes...
¿The high five In tlmed .practice 
picked* ups32-P9l»tsT(anct'>Mgtj 
picked up 120, total for the first five 
bfc^ng 1,395, showing the squad tn 
be, In the r&t(enal3$hainplonshlp
Tech fiarberShop
Craig and Sorbes'.Oakland,;; .. *
On Tli â h ksg ïvï n g N ig h t
' and eVery Saturday Night thereafter
Formal Dance 
Hotel Schenley
One dollar per person 
including breakfast at midnight
Wednesday and Friday nights informal as at 
present. Special arrangements for parties of thirty or more. For information . . , Phone JIAyjflower 6400.
HEALTH BULLETIN
1. Wear sensible clothes, light
- beauty.3. The eyes need to be treated'with care and respect.4. The teeth need an inspectiontwiceMODERATION -XTREMISM
AFTER EVERY CLASS 
IT RINGS THE BELL!
PIPB smokers everywhere have labeled Prince Albert "The 
Natioaa]JoySznoke”becausetheyhave/bundirasuperiornjuc* ture of choice, top-quality tobaccos. Every himof "bite”is re­
moved from mild, mellow "P.A,” by a Special process. One pipe« fill of Prince Albert will prove to you why smokers say, "You 
never know bow good your pipe can taste until you try 'P-A,'’*
Fringe Albert
— THE NATIONAL JOY SMOKE/
r. B«rmUl Totaeoo oCAMEL’S COSTLiER TOBACCOS
NEVER GET ON YOUR NERVES!

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 1934
THE 
CARNEG1E 
PLAID
edited by Nlgbt Schcot ctnieeto of COM,yoL Xnstftote of Technolog?. All views ©pinion* ' «preutj jti1 tho
by tío Editorial Boaxd of tie Day School
H. INGRAM E. F. "WHITE WILLIAM E. BAR
Thanksgiving
' The Staff of the -Plaid wishes .to extend to the entire night student .body its best wishes for a pleasant Thanksgiving Day. From .thé lu* creased enrollment and tho reports of the students,. It seems obvious that many of us can give thanks .for the betterment of our Individ­ual conditions during the past year. Tiiose who have not been so fortu­nate at least have learned from the steady improvement of
weeks and months ¦ of unemploy­ment and reduced income. And that in itself is something to be thank­ful for.'; The Staff, too, is thankful, and wishes to express its appreciation of the cooperation and aid that has been accorded it by the Night Stu­dent Council, the Tartan Staff, stu­dent contributors, and everyone else who bas in any way helped us is our efforts to carry on the tradi­tions of the night school page.
NIGHT LIGHTS
Russ Lahr’s favorite song (and ine he dearly loves,to plunk on the piano) is “Deep in my Heart,” but ...... Kd
theArts school bought with such lov­ing-care1 that they-hung without a 'wrinkle . . . Jimmy Fisher has ' threatened to come to blows wjth , the-next person who criticizes his manner of placing a pallette on the wall . . The very nice stage deco­rations .were designed by students, of course . . . Thumb-nail sketch of . Bill Vensel: 11 years, at C. I. T. Is thinking of applying for a pen- Attend- . Readsvlhe funny papers. Likes .''Wimpy."• Second year in C.ouncil. Has decid­ed preference foriiblondes. Looks as if lie knew, all the questions; anti . never-admits more than' 29 years of ege . Weré their faces 'red dept;‘ That gatip of engineers i sponsible, for'the blowing out of breaker. In electric lab. last week were Bill Hodder, Otto Ehlers, ant‘ A1 Snyder, who is the ~ Ducjuesm Light Co.’s pride and -joy ... A R.Bumle' found the going too tough ¿t Flne Arts, so he switched engineers this year, the softy
You're Telling Me?
That 1 wrote (spoke) out of turn, 
because the very'next ^sstie of the 
Tartan, this weeks, came out with 
the usual four sheets. Well, I guess ihe Scotch instinct Isn’t so had aft­er'all, although it is nice to have the full news at -all time.
That we are to have a dance on the first of December. The posters le the Thanksgiving Dai
on the twenty-ninth librate the occasion on the week-end. I'll bet all the lads and lassies will be to the affair.
olumns of the last issue of the Tartan that ticket salesmen are be­ing solicited. I have often thought ould like to sell some tickets, but I can’t find anybody who would buy them. However, my inability to sell them should not deter any 
2 making the attempt to !, and by the way, perhaps
That our next vacation is a little longer than the flr6t one.. Yes, we ' lys Instead of one, Thursday and Friday of this. week.: to be In session, I ire wondering why I
tie rest he feels like the house tops aboui that every night stu
holiday period.
Prizes Offered to 
German Students
• V:T1
•KJ-Rltlochlnger boys dressed a . fetchln. of his trousers . Mrs. Nlkhazy’s little boy .' blossoming forth In knickei . iesB! . . . More fun but no people .killed . . . Harry Ingram’s slight English accent Is pleasantly differ-
“Lang’s bangs,’1 very successfully •employed by Sally in our Alley . . . Anne Hanson, c. I. T.’s little worry- Vwart sat on Duquesne's side all . through the Tech-Duke game, ¦ ing her most cherubic smile and loudly and vehemently cheering for .Tech . . .. The Pbl Nu boys at­tended the game in a body, and :.-helped to celebrate the Tech vic­tory at their bustnesB banquet aftei^ wards . . . Bob Lahr, who ws . on Armistice Day, spent the : noon watching the twins while his '. wife went to town . . . "What Price Glorv? . . . John Schurko 1s fast becoming a victim of the Thistle
' from the Registrar’s office •-A1 Cor. doesn't make a habit of '.running out in his
-It-oeema that the publication of tho ' officers pictures is slowly turning . this , sheet into a dating bureau— Nell Blochinger has increased his 7‘f^n mail by this means. (Yoo-Hoo, : .Peggy) ... All we can say about •-;the recent mlspelllng of names here .: aid there is that- If it loo!;.-,Vour name (and you have a guilty ^conscience) it means
Universities In Japan have only •36 women students. —' Rensselaer 
¦^Polytechnic.
INDIAN
COACH LINES
Buses to all points
Idle Thoughts 
of an 
Idle Night ‘ 
Student
NSC Presents 
Holiday Dance
Final*: Arrangements Fòr 
Affair Are Complete
ORCHESTRA CHOSEN
Logan’s Ambassadors "Play 
At First Council Dance
The final preparations, have been fnade lojr,.the ThanksglvlngRecess Dance-sponsored by the Night Stu­dent Council. The efforts of the students who are responsible for the success of this aJid other coun­cil affairs are undoubtedly going to result in the m09t enjoyable function ever held on the night campus. New and unusual decora­tion« have been planned, and will transform Thistle Hall into an ideal spot for a dance.
Jack Logan and his Royal Am­bassadors have been engaged to furnish the music for the. dance. This orchestra enjoys a high repu­tation amoDg those who have ex­perienced the pleasure of dancing to Its music. The choice of this orchestra is in keeping with the effort- being made to give tjie stu­dents the best that is consistent with the budget.
Among the guests who have been invited to attend this affair are: Dean Mn.ry Watson Green, Dean A. W. Tarbell, Messers. Harold A. Thomas, Glendennlng Keeble, Kent D. Shaffer, Michael S. SchonvUner, Charles W. Pitkin, Robert B. Leighou, Karl L. Jones and Glen U. Cleeton.
Everyone who has made a prac­tice of attending the Council affairs from year to year has marked the
Council began to sponsor these af­fairs. At the: present time, every dance is a treat, and outsiders find it hard to believe that all this work Js planned and executed by night
Vice President of College of 
Engineering Has FineRecord
A. C. Grimm Responsible' 
For^the Success cf 
Engineers* Event
We are pleased to present, this week, the campus record of Mr. A; C. Grimm, who was elected to the
the annual Election Smoker of that College which was held in the Car negle Uriio'n on Saturday evening,
the present school year,
Mr.- Grimm who is registered for the Civil Engineering Course in the Night College of Engineering, has been on\ the campus for a number of years during which time he has become associated with the vari­ous Night School Social Func­tions. He is now serving.his sec­ond year as a member of tben Night student Council.
During the past year, he served his College in the capacity of Sec­retary. 'The success of the Engi­neer’s Banquet of 1933-34, was due to a great extent to the untiring ef­forts of Mr. Grimm in contacting the various concerns which donat­ed'the souvenirs and novelties for tbe occasion. Mr. Grimm also act­ed as a member of the Scholarship Committee for the Night College of Engineering during the past year, having been appointed to the Com- ittee by Mr. Lois.
In recognition for his activities record, Mr. Grimm has been award­ed the Insignia for the past two •s. At the first meeting of the >ent Night Studont Council, which. was held recently.. he wus unanimously elected to the office of Vice-President of the Night Stu­dent Council for the year 1934-35. In this capacity it will be his duty to keep an accurate record of the
year by the Night Student Council.
Schurz Memorial Foundation 
Competition Announced
The Carl Schurz Memorial Foun- ilion, in conjunction with the De­partment of Modern Languages, iB offering this year a set fcf ’Goethe's orks to an outstanding'undergrad- ate student who is taking, or has taken, a course in German nt the Carnegie Institute of Technology.
must have completed at least -the :cond year o# German, C-234 ¡i56 (formerly C224 or C-234,Teepee-
the Carnegie Institute of Technology.
The award will be made on the basis of:(1) The student’s scholastic record in German; andie writing either of a short story in German « on essay in English on of the following topic:(a) some prase of Goethe’s life and works;(b) German contributions to American political and so­cial life;(c) the cultural value of the study of the German lan­guage.
All those who wish to enter this competition ere requested to make knows, in writing, their wish to Dr. Kamman, Head of the Depart­ment of Modern Languages, not later than January 15. Further in-
Didja Notice
hope he sticks to the Job.THAT this roving report gets In my hair.THAT the Plaid Editor Is ( >ing (films).
on the chin from dear old 
Tech. .THAT two of the Night Stu­dents have been spending quite a lot of time In GreeTisburg late-¡¿nery?THAT the N. S. C. has de-. 'eloped quite a number of two Ingered typlets...THAT, the ax-PrcGident of trt6 has a new car. 'THAT kibitzers, are beginning o line up for free dance tick-
Tiçket Returns to Be 
Made to Wm. A, Vensel
If you are wondering what to d< with those tickets that you go through the mail a few days age the answer is to sell them. Whej you have exhausted your original supply, more tickets can be ob­tained from your class offlcors or from the Council room on the flrst floor of the Industries Building; As you no doubt know, It is necessari'
they are sold or not. Returns should be made as soon as possible after the dance to William. Vensel, Treasurer, Night Student Council,’ box 136, Carnegie Institute of Tech­nology, Pittsburgh,. Pennsylvania. You can save yourself the price of a stamp if you use the inter- school mail box In the basement of the Administration Building for
CoS. EDMAN
PRINTER 6470 Monitor Street
Penn Stale Has Many 
Student Organizations
One has little difficulty In finding kindred spirits at Pennsylvania State College. With many organl; tions on the campus, a' spec group is available to meet every' taste. There is an .aviation club, fencing society, nine musical and dramatic organizations, five orches- trans. nine literary groups and Tour e arts fraternities. Forty-six pro- sional- societies contact members of the professions for the student's benefit. Forty-one fraternities be­stow Tionors for achievement in each field.
Fraternity Dance 
Plans Announced
Freddy Herrick WiU ifrcoisb 
Mußic for the Occasion
Pbi Nu Fraternity has announc­
ed that it will sponsor a dance to 
be held in Thistle Hall on the 
evening of December 8. Attendance at this function Is not confined to members. Tbe entire student body .nd tbeir friends are welcome. Fred­die 'Herrick and his orchestra have been engaged to play at the dance. The-remembrance of his fine per­formance . at the recent ’ Arts Dance \viil undoubtedly tempt many to treat themselves to more of his music. Admission will be one dol- Jar per couple. Tickets may be obtained from members of the fra- ity, at the Council oilice or at the door the'night of the dance.
Tbe flrst open dance held by this organization was so well received that the Board of Governors has decided to make a permanent place on the social calendar for other such events. ______
Student Activities 
Workers to Report
Preparations - for the. • Trianksglvhig1' ^Recess ‘darlC« will- be made on- Thursday afternoon, November 29tb, at 2 o’clock, and on Saturday afternoon, December 1st, at the same time. Workers are invited to come and help pre­pare Thistle Hall foe the dance. Those helping in tbe work of decorating the ball will be awarded credit to­wards a Night Student Coun­cil Activities Insignia. This will be a fine opportunity for those Interested
this end.rot points towards
| New Officers Elected ¦
. At Fraternity Dinner
The annual business meetlnr and election of officers of the PM 
Nu ,frfttpn4ty..w,a%;Jbeld..at earn*‘0ie Inn; November 17. Guests in eluded Dr. Roscoe m." lhrig]E. W. Orsterrelch of the Duqucsue Light Company, Mr. j. Allen, Mr 
A. Mag and Mr. G. A. Blochinger The election followed the dinuer and Robert Graham was elected director, A. J. Lois, Seneschal, and W. J. Noigot, herald.
West Virginia University conduct­ed a vote to determine the size of the diplomas to be given at gradu-
Schools were for the first tin Massachusetts.
LARGEST SELECTION OP PORTABLE AND STANDARD-SIZED
TYPEWRITERS $14.95 to $75.00
Ll '’io! nt'a^tY pV, w ii'm; h" m 1Fi ret Tbree^Months’ Reniai Appllea
FORT PITT TYPEWRITER CO.€44 LIBERTY AVENUE
Creighton University the law student who makes the dumbest re­mark in class is allowed to wear the clsiss's Brown derby.
HAIRCUTS, 35cC. CICEROBarber Shop 
3709 Forbes Street
DINING ROOM 
/or SUNDAY DINNER
A delicious meal, $4 
served well, in a B 
pleasant place—' g 
BREAKFAST, LUNCH AND 
DINNER EVERY DAY
/or.ial'DM,
Call MISS DRISCOLLFor Reservations—MAytlowe 
ivcnue and Clyde
Harvard men, alike in college and as alumni, are 
alert to all that makes for progress in apparel; 
they were among the first to discover and adopt 
the Kover-Zip closure for trousers—they 
quick to see its many advantages over the exposed 
metal of the ordinary zipper.
Leading Harvard tailors, creators of fine clothes 
for college men, are fully aware of Kover-Zip’s 
superior qualities.
-OlU¿ ¡Isiukob Jeto us Boston tailor to “Harvard 
" men, says— "When our patrons
;ers or slacks equipped with a slide fastener, we are 
prepared to provide for this preference. It is obvious that 
the Kover-Zip closure in which no metal shows i
keeping with the require 
uncovered zipper with ii
its of good ta'ste than 
rip of exposed metal.
OutstanAinq college lailats, axilteiA 
éndí>z¿e vez—^cj? OJ llt£ Ails
P i°l /¦; custom clotitt
STUDENTSWANTEDFive hundred Typewriters» all makes, Portables and Standards, sotcf, rented, re­paired. $100 one month $10.00 five months.
American WritingMachine Company
tb
New York$1.50$13.50
to
óhleago..8.5015.30
to
'Detroit...5.509.90
to10.0018.00
