TARTAN
Volume 66—Number 9Wednesday, November 9, 1966
AWS Suggests 
Apartment Rules
In light of the upcoming demoli­
tion of Colonial Manor, AWS (As­
sociation of Women Students) has 
made several proposals to the ad­
ministration concerning rules gov­
erning apartment dwelling on and 
off campus.
They recomend that junior stu­
dents be permitted to live off 
campus next year and those girls 
now living in Colonial Manor be 
ffiven priority in choosing apart­
ments next year.
AWS also proposed that visiting 
rules remain in the same for 
apartments in Woodlawn and on 
Lhe first floor of Morewood Gar­
dens. They added that partitions 
should be erected between the bed- 
>oom and living room of each sec- 
°n floor Morewood apartment to 
permit male visitors.
I he proposals await considera- 
tion by the administration.
Stever Discusses 
Future Of Carnegie
President H. Guyford Stever invited some 60 student 
leaders to a luncheon last Saturday to talk about his plans 
for creating a university in which “all our departments will 
be rated among the first handful in the country.”
At the luncheon, held in the 
Highlander Room in Skibo, Stev­
er summarized the academic and 
curricular changes he feels are 
needed at Carnegie. He also cited 
the physical and financial prob­
lems inherent in changing an In­
stitute of Technology into a Uni­
versity, and explained some re­
cent administrative decisions.
‘Planning Exercise’
About “a year and a half ago,” 
according to Stever, members of 
the upper administration entered 
into a “planning exercise”—a sys­
tematic investigation of what was 
needed in each of the colleges at 
Carnegie and a hypothesis of 
“what the school should be like 
in the future.”
Some of the shortcomings 
they saw and suggestions they 
came up with for the various 
colleges and divisions are the 
following.
Fine Arts—“The Fine Arts peo­
ple thought their principal prob­
lem was facilities,” said Stever,
“and I can’t help but agree with 
them.’ But he also foresees a 
more crucial problem in the arts 
—competition for top-grade facul­
ty.
For years Tech’s “professional” 
approach in teaching the applied 
arts was relatively unique, and it 
was easy to attract prestigious 
instructors. Now many other in­
stitutions are setting up profes­
sional schools of the arts, and 
“Five or ten years from now sal­
ary scales for Fine Arts faculty 
will be quite a different thing.”
Humanities and Social Science—
There are “obvious gaps” in the 
humanities program at Tech, es­
pecially in the fields of philosophy 
and political science. The exact 
relation between Margaret Mor­
rison Carnegie College and the 
Division of Humanities and Social 
Science was, and still is, “unsure.”
Dr. Stever, in a jovial mood at 
lunch with students.
Engineering and Science—E & S
students need more of a chance to 
deal with “real problems” in ad­
vanced technology. As far as the 
science departments are concern­
ed, the new Department of Biolo­
gical Sciences should be expanded 
and the chemistry and physics 
programs should be strengthened.
Graduate School of Industrial 
Administration—GSIA should be­
gin to deal with administrative 
problems in the “public arena,” 
not just industrial problems. 
‘Imaginative Activity’
ITie decision to expand to a 
university was prompted by the 
Mellon Institute merger. “We 
went back and forth on this uni­
versity idea for a while,” said 
Stever, “but gradually it became 
clear to us that we could ride a 
wave of imaginative activity that 
would carry us far beyond our 
original goals in the basic scien­
ces.”
Affiliation with YVQED was 
not “part and parcel” of the 
university and merger plans. 
The opportunity to include the
(Continued on Page 10.)
Food Committee Plans
Major Policy Changes
Tartan Photo by John Mera 
The Tartan Grill
Opening after Thanksgiving.
Food Service 
Representatives
Student Government’s Food Ser­
vice committee includes: Dave 
Wise, 106 Henderson; Jerry Spi- 
gal, 312 Scobel; John Banker, A- 
310 Hammerschlag; Mike Silver, 
A-313 Hammerschlag; Tony Law­
rence, A-307 Hammerschlag; Steve 
Silberman, A-316 Hammerschlag; 
John Sofis, 301 Welch; Paul Web­
er, 203 Henderson; George Hanna, 
204 Henderson; Ed Newberger, 211 
Donner; Ted Klastorin, 211 Don- 
ner; Mike Perel, 101 Donner; 
Allan Hoberman, 209 Welch; Rob­
ert Wolberg, 133 Donner; Doug 
Kemerer, 304 Boss; and Ron Haan, 
chairman; 301 Welch.
Women on the committee are: 
Jane Dubrowin, Lee Mock, Eva- 
lynn Diesenhaus, Ellen Ackerman, 
Charlene Rettew, Carol DeWall, 
Fredda Simon, Candy E t k i n, 
Cheryl Palkovitz, Sue McClinchie, 
Joann Lustutsky, Jeanne Winans, 
Karen Frankl, Barbara Heslin, 
Judy Cornell, and Joan Moss, vice 
chairman.
Complaints about Food Service 
can be referred to any of these 
people.
MDC Reports Decisions, 
Improvements For Dorms
Men’s Dorm Council met last Thursday with its new 
advisor, Mr. Eugene H. Milich, for discussion of projects 
for dormitory improvement.
Black-and-white TV sets for the Hill dorms should ar­
rive in December, while color sets for Donner and Ham­
merschlag are expected in January. The Council advocated 
specta-tor benches for the Donner Hall pool area in order to 
prevent tilting of the pool tables 
which occurs when students sit on 
them. Abuse of this or any other 
equipment including the vending 
machines will result in immedi­
ate “removal” of the item dam­
aged.
The Council also announced 
the opening of a darkroom in 
Donner Hall, under the direction 
of Dave Rosenberg, thirds floor 
Donner.
Men’s Dorm Council, in addition 
to providing social activities, is al­
so the proper channel for com­
plaints about dorm facilities and 
services. Residents are encouraged 
to voice their complaints to their 
dorm president. Council meetings, 
held at five pm, Thursday in Sco- 
bell, are open to anyone interested.
Partial Contracts, 
Seconds Proposed
After just four months of 
operation, the Carnegie Tech 
Food Service is planning 
sweeping changes in its poli­
cy on food contract holders. 
Some proposals listed by 
Food Service Director L. E. 
Price and Ron Haan, chair­
man of Student Govern­
ment’s Food Service Com­
mittee, are:
1) Allow contract holders 
unlimited second helpings of all 
menu items, including beverages, 
in Skibo Cafeteria and the More­
wood Dining Room. This change 
would entail dividing the Skibo 
cafeteria in half, with a lattice 
“fence” or room divider of some 
sort, to completely separate 
cash customers from contract 
customers.
Contract holders could eat on 
the cash side, but would forfeit 
the right to unlimited seconds.
2) Sell partial contracts, on 
a weekly or monthly basis, for 
lunches only. A Food Service 
Subcommittee headed by Doug 
Kemerer is looking into the de­
tails of this plan. As a conse­
quence of this proposal and the 
preceding one, prices in the cash 
line in Skibo cafeteria would go 
up.
3) Permit women on contract 
to eat at Skibo cafeteria. Cur­
rently men may eat at Morewood, 
but women cannot be served in 
the contract line at Skibo.
To check student response 
to these proposals and to Food 
Service in general, the Tartan 
is sponsoring a food service 
poll. The form at the end of 
this article can be filled out, 
detached from the paper, and, 
deposited in boxes which will 
be placed around campus.
According to Haan, “The goal 
of Food Service is to please stu­
dents ... if any of these pro­
posals do not please the major­
ity, they will not be incorporat­
ed.”
Increased Flexibility
Commenting on his student 
Food Service Committee, Haan 
said, “This is so much better 
than last year . . . whatever we 
want, we’ve been able to get . . . 
the management of Food Service 
has made changes right and left 
(Continued on Page 5.)
Entrance to the mezzanine In the Tartan GrilL
Tartan Grill Opens 
After Thanksgiving
“My best guess would be 
that it will open the week 
after Thanksgiving.” The 
speaker is Mr. L. E. Price, 
director of Food Service, and 
the topic of discussion is the 
Tartan Grill.
Skibo’s snack bar, renovated at 
a cost of 80,000 dollars, was or­
iginally to be completed by Oc­
tober 15. Difficulty in ordering 
materials, especially wood pan­
elling for the walls and carpet 
for the mezzanine, have delayed 
the opening.
The grill could have opened 
last week, but it would have 
been half done. Only the main 
floor would be in service. The 
general campus committee and 
undergraduate advisory com­
mittee of Student Government 
voted to defer the opening un­
till the walls and the mezzan­
ine were finished*
Ron Haan, chairman of the 
general campus and food ser­
vice committee, said “We’ve 
waited a long time for this Snack 
Bar, so we may as well wait a 
couple of more weeks and let 
them do the best job they can 
on it.”
Materials Delayed
Carl D. Thomas, Director of 
Construction and Planning ord­
ered the necessary materials at 
the end of October, Apparently 
he had been waiting for ap­
proval from R. D. Strathmeyer, 
Vice-President for Business Af­
fairs.
Installation of the new serving 
counter and food facilities is 
completed. Food will be dispens­
ed at separate “stations” instead 
of line-style, as in a cafeteria.
The main floor will have the 
same circular tables used in the 
old snack bar. Upstairs in the 
mezzanine, U-shaped booths will 
nearly double the seating ca­
pacity.
The Tartan Grill will seat 
388. Hie old snack bar had 
room for 204 patrons.
Mr. Price and the food service 
committee are working on a 
more diversified menu for the 
Grill. They plan to offer sundaes, 
ice-cream sodas, five-cent cups 
of coffee, “super” hamburgers, a 
wider selection of sandwiches, 
and perhaps a lunch time 
“special” with hamburger, french- 
fries, and salad at a low pack­
age price.
Suggestions are still being 
sought for what to put in the 
“recreation area” below the mez­
zanine. In the old snack bar, 
this area contained two ping- 
pong tables. Students with ideas 
can contact Sharon Ram bo, chair­
man of the Student Union.
Publications 
Open House 
*
November 13, 2 p.m. 
Skibo Wherrett Room
*
... OK COME LATER AND 
VISIT THE PUBLICATIONS' OFFICES

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN—Wednesday, November 9, 1966
Interviews Set 
For Harvard 
Business School
Mr. Richard L. Nohl of the 
Admissions Board at the 
Harvard University Gradu­
ate School of Business Ad­
ministration, will be at Car­
negie Tech on Wednesda}7, 
November 16, to talk to men 
and women interested in 
graduate study in business 
at Harvard.
Requirements for admission for 
¿he two-year course, leading to a 
degree of Master in Business Ad­
ministration (M.B.A.), include a 
college degree in any field of 
concentration, a standing in at 
least the top third of the class, 
and a record of achievement in 
campus activities, the military, 
or elsewhere.
For outstanding students in 
each first-year class, there are 
70 fellowships available, rep­
resenting nearly 10 percent of 
the class. Approximately 35 per­
cent of the Harvard Business 
School student body also makes 
use of the Deferred Payment or 
Loan Program which enables all 
students admitted to the Harvard 
M.B.A. Program to attend even 
though their source of funds are 
inadequate.
YMCA Shows 
‘The Big Sleep’
This week the YMCA Friday 
Cine-Series presents The Big 
Sleep, starring Humphrey Bogart 
and Lauren Bacall, at 7 and 10 
in Porter Hall 100. Admission is 
25 cents for Y-members and 50 
cents for non-members.
Among the always delightfully 
confusing “private eye” films of 
the 40’s, The Big Sleep is Holly­
wood’s entertaining best. Fast and 
racy dialogue follows a private 
eye through his efforts to save 
a decadent millionnaire’s daugh­
ter from a black mail scheme. 
From the nymphomaniacs to the 
drug addicts to the murders com­
mitted by mistake, this film con­
tains every preposterousness of 
those engrossing yarns of the past.
Folk Artist Sings 
At Assembly
Mr. John Jacob Niles, one 
of America’s outstanding 
folk singers, will perform at 
the Tuesday, November 15 
Assembly Program at 11:30 
am in Skibo Ballroom.
Mr. Niles accompanies his sing­
ing with an unusual stringed in­
strument, the Dulcimer. He has 
composed many folk songs and 
ballads, and has written poetry 
which includes some 250 sonnets.
Mr. Niles remarks, “I started out
being a poet ... I guess maybe 
I should have stayed with that.” 
Among his better-known folk 
songs are “Black is the Color of 
My True Love’s Hair,” “Go ’Way 
from My Window,” and “I Won­
der as I Wander.” Mr. Niles’STRAN
6M 6992D
ffiUejftmt
JEmMLeaMMDTiAHa/UIDESRHlT MEM DOOM -Ft«Si HOHEM
. . . and . . .
SOPHIA LOREN
. . in .
“Divorce 
Italian Style’’
Come to the . . .
HOUSE of the RISING SUN
with the HARVEY LORD JAZZ QUINTET
8:30-1:00 HIGHLANDER ROOM, SKIBO . . . EVERY FRIDAY
• 50# ADMISSION FOR ALL YOU CAN EAT •
• ti I « I I I I ¦ I «
“SHOCKING AND CONTINUOUSLY PROVOCATIVE!”
-A. It. Welter, M. Y. Tim•>
"A VERY UNUSUAL 
PICTURE! BEAUTIFUL!”
—Arthur Win*««, H. Y. Pmtt
“AN EXQUISITE FABLE OF INFIDELITY!” I
—Tima Magasin»
to EASTMAMCOIO* / * O.OVCK fKUS COW fWLtASe?
2nd WEEK
ASME Meeting
There will be a meeting of the 
ASME Student Section Thursday, 
November 17, at 7:30 in the Scaife 
Hall auditorium. The speaker will 
be Mr. William F. Hunley from 
the Department of the Navy, Bur­
eau of Ships. Mr. Hunley is pres­
ently acting head of the Mechani­
cal Section of Hull Design, Naval 
Ship Systems Command. He will 
speak on a subject of general in­
terest drawn from his recent 
work on dsep sea submergence 
system.
All students and faculty are in­
vited to attend the meeting.
performances of these songs and 
others have been praised for 
their freshness and simplicity, 
which he achieves by treating 
“every performance as if it were 
the first performance.”
His son, John Edward Niles, is 
a senior music major at Tech.
• TONIGHT AT 8:30 •
Last Two CRAFT
Weeks THEATER
A Comedy with Music
“A MAN’S 
A MAN’'
Performances: Tues. thru Sat. at 9:30 
Son. at 7:30—Sat. at 7:00 & 10:00
2nd” HAMLET
Week THEATER
Pulitzer Prize Drama“A Streetcar 
Named Desire”
Performances: Tues. thru Sat. at 9:20 
Sun. at 7:30 Matinee Wed. at 2:00
•
All seats: $3.30 Sun. thru FrL 
4.40 Sat.
Students: all seats, $1.50 Sun. 
thru Fri.—$2.00 Sat. 
RESERVATIONS 621-4445
The PITTSBURGH PLAYHOUSE
Craft Ave. at Hamlet St. 
PITTSBURGH, PA. (15213)
if she doesn’t give it to you... 
—get it yourself!
JADE EAST
Cologne, 6 oz., $4.50 
After Shave, 6 oz., $3.50 
Deodorant Stick, $1.75 
Buddha Cologne Gift Package, 12 oz., $8.50 
Spray Cologne, $3.50 
Buddha Soap Gift Set, $4.00 
Cologne, 4 oz., $3.00 
After Shave, 4 oz., $2.50 swank, new york - sole distributor
(RECOMMENDED FOR MATURE AUDIENCES)
AWSuges SgWtepagsrWeMIlllCENT MARTIN 'JULIA FOSTER • JANE ASHER • SHIRLEY ANNE FIEU) VIVIEN MERCHANT • ELEANOR BRON • WITH SHELLEY WINTERS AS RUBY TECHNICOLOR' TECHNISCOPE" A LEWIS GILBERT PRODUCTION ŒjfljjpfcV'A^/e
SCPEENPUY BY HU NAUGHTON BASED ON THE PlAY AIRE BY BU NAUGHTON • MUSIC BY SONNY RttLNS • PfflOUQO ANO OtRKTEO BY IfWlS GHKR!
25<Z INDOOR PARKING WEEKDAYS(€hat/ijcvm
r€/ici{/iain dente i •
Phone 261-1001
After 5 p.m.—Sat., Sun. and Holidays 
After 1 p.m.—Indoor Garage
Entrance from Garage "RED LEVEL'
, li ill rill.I iiii il il I limn III I I I I III I I I I I III liiii I i
CO
Live Sonic Discoteque-"THE MIND THING"-that soared the "Cheetah/' 
"Rock Flow," and "World" to psychedelic fame in New York is here for Swinging 
Pittsburghers. If you have ever yearned to become "ONE" with your surround­
ings then "T.E." (TOTAL ENVIRONMENT) is your gig. At the "KALEIDOSCOPE" 
you not only hear the sounds, but FEEL them, BREATHE them, SEE them, and 
SAVOR them with ALL your senses.
Post Magazine says of this new wrap around dance media . . . "This is 
no fad. This may be our centuries most important contribution to art." In this 
same issue (October 22, 1966), six pages were devoted to print and pictures in 
an attempt to describe TOTAL ENVIRONMENT. In the words of Post writer Tom 
Meehan, ... "I felt as though I were Jelly-Bellying inside a giant combination 
of a juke box and a pinball machine." "TE" is accomplished through the use of 
hundreds of lights of varying colors and intensities being "Splashed" on the 
walls, floors, ceiling and dancers themselves while a number of way-out combos 
play DEPTH MUSIC.
For a limited time charter memberships in the Kaleidoscope are being 
offered at $5.00 a year per person. Memberships entitle "SCOPES" to saturate 
their senses twice a week, Fri. and Sat. nites, 9 p.m.—2 a.m., for $1.00. "Scopes" 
may bring guests at $2.00 per person. The Kaleidoscope is located on Route 22, 
directly across from The Holiday House Night Club. Ample parking is available.
Charter memberships may be obtained by sending your check or money 
order in care of the INTER-COLLEGIATE PRESS, payable to Kaleidoscope. Scope 
cards will be sent out immediately.
GRAND SCOPENING IS NOVEMBER 25-26, 1966 - 9 P.M.-2 A.M.
CO
DEAR KLIDE S. SCOPE,
I DIG THIS MIND THINGHere if a dollar for each one of my five senses. Sign 'em ALL up!
Name..................................................................................................................................................................... MALE ?
Address..............................................................................................................................................................FEMALE ?
MAKE CHECKS PAYABLE to: KALEIDOSCOPE, c/o ICP, 222 Coltart Street, Pittsburgh, Penna. 15213.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, November 9, 1966—CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN—Page 3
Through the Looking Glass .. .
Interview 
With A Striptease Artist
by Timothy Bay
TO THE GENERAL PUBLIC stripteasers are usually divided into 
two neat categories. First, there is the dizzy, peroxided, peanut-brain­
ed stripper who usually ends up marrying the rich oilman from 
Texas. Second cousin to her, the carbon copy Mae West, has a husky, 
insinuating voice and an experienced “I’ve been around, kid”—highly- 
charged-with-sex manner.
Out of natural curiousity, I decided to test this myth; I man­
aged, with a minimum of difficulty, an interview with a professional 
stripper who is currently performing in Pittsburgh. We met for 
Ihe interview in a tacky, atmospheric kind of hotel in the Pittsburgh 
area. I walked up three shaky flights of stairs, until coming to her 
room. It was a small, crowded room; the classic Gideon’s Bible on 
the dresser. Like most interviews, it started off slowly, formally, but 
once she warmed up to the questions, it gained momentum.
ONE OF THE FIRST QUESTIONS, naturally, was how had she 
started in the business. She said that she had always loved to dance 
although she had no real formal training—“My first show, I was 
scared to death, but by the third show, I had it made—now I love 
it.” About film experience: “I was in the movie, Once Upon a Knight 
[a nudist flick]; many of these films, like this one, are shot in nudist 
colonies.” She said that there are schools where young girls can 
learn the bump and grind business—“The best is in Pasadena, Cali- 
lomia.” Does she receive much fan mail? “They are nice friendly 
letters although I do get some filthy obscene ones. I try to answer 
the nice ones. There was one letter where a guy said he would com­
mit suicide if I didn’t send him my costume—so I sent him a fringe.”
About her personal life she was very open; she said surprisingly 
that her father is a minister. “No, he feels that as long as I’m 
happy, it’s fine with him.” She is married herself, but in general, 
she said that once the girls get married, they usually leave the busi­
ness. “I often work out my own routines; there are directors, too, 
however. I sometimes use fluorescent lights in my act. I also did a 
bit with a Beatles’ outfit and guitar.”
TO HER, THE BEST KIND OF WORK is night clubs: “Better 
class of people there”; for them she uses her expensive, fancier 
gowns. She likes working best on the West Coast; also, Florida is 
a good state. “The best strip joints are in St. Petersburg,” that is 
because, she maintained, they have the best lighting and technical 
systems. What did she think of the possible future of burlesque? “It’s 
not as good today as it was years ago, but it will rise up again for 
there are a lot of new girls on the scene. I like to help those new 
girls, show them routines for instance.” But in general, she said 
irankly that there is a great deal of jealousy, even rivalry “among 
the girls.”
Today who are some of the top performers in the bump and 
grind business? “Blaze Starr, Lilly St. Cyr, Sally Rand, Denise Gail, 
Tempest Storm, and Dyna Mite. There is Podgie Roberts, a female 
impersonator who does marvelous things with wigs and wardrobes. 
There is also Flaming Torch, Lolli Pop, and Angel Delight.”
Like a painter, writer, or journalist, she regards her business 
as an art and works constantly to improve her craft. “I love to 
watch other people perform.” Important to her also is the audience 
find their appreciation of her act. “Without the audience you’re 
nothing. I feel very strongly that they affect your performance.” 
She is forbidden to fraternize with the audience, after the show. 
Moonlighting” is also forbidden, i.e., holding part-time jobs on the 
side. Considering that she is required to give on the average of three 
or four shows a day, holding another job would seem improbable. 
About Mae West, she replied that she loved her work and felt that 
Hollywood should revive those musical extravaganzas like the ones 
turned out by Busby Berkeley in the 1930’s.
IT WAS GETTING LATE; I had become transfixed by her sin­
cerity and openness and by her account of a life that few of us 
know anything about. With the realization that she had a show that 
night, I wound up the questions. Cindy Lee (the Stripteaser’s name) 
said that she was next headed for the Coast and some night club 
engagements, after which she would fly back to Florida and her 
iamily. I left, thanking her for her graciousness in granting the in­
terview, and navigated unsteadily back down those three rickety 
stairs to the world outside.
It had been an interesting experience; not only had a myth 
been destroyed for me, but also a new outlook or point of view had 
been opened up. I was made aware for the first time of the hard 
wdrk, the sacrifice, the study that these girls go through. It also 
reminded me that at one time Burlesque had been a thriving and 
legitimate form of entertainment; unpretentious but highly con­
scious of traditional art form, it had even been as Bernard Sobel so 
neatly put it—“the poor man’s paradise.”
TRY THE
MOONLIGHT BOWL
BOWL ALL YOU WISH from 12 midnight till 6 a.m. for 
only $2. Special Group Rates also available. Open 24
hours everyday.
NEW MIRACLE LANES
Wm. Penn Highway
MONROEVILLEPhone: 372-3500
Airplane Rides 
Again Offered 
By Flying Club
The Flying Club has resched­
uled their airplane rides over 
Pittsburgh and vicinity for Sat­
urday, November 19. Those who 
had reservations for the last trip 
may reschedule first; all others 
are invited to make reservations 
this coming week. The price for 
the 25minute tour will be $3.00.
Reservations may be obtained 
through flying club members, who 
will be stationed in Skibo cafeteria 
Tuesday and Thursday between 
11:30 and 1:30, or through Cam­
pus Mail, Box 260, or by phoning 
521-6818.
The first date set for the air­
plane rides had to be cancelled 
when county authorities refused 
permission to fly out of Allegheny 
County Airport. The permission 
was refused because the flying 
club had failed to pay a county 
tax. This time all requirements— 
city, county, state, and federal— 
have been met, and as before the 
safety standard will far exceed 
all requirements.
CLASSIFIED
For Sale—Triumph MK2, Red exterior,
black interior. Tonto. Excellent condition. 
Best offer. Phone 661-8928.
College Students Seeking Part-Time Em­
ployment — In collection department of 
Wilkinsburg Firm. Hourly wage. 9 p.m. - 
12 p.m. Monday thru Thursday and Sun­
days. Call 243-7281.
Babysitter Wanted: One afternoon or» 
morning per week: 2 year-old Doy and 
small baby. Mrs. F. S. Manning, MU
Patronize
University
Sports
Anthropologist Presents 
Next Two Falk Lectures
A prominent American anthropologist, Weston La- 
Barre, will give the next two lectures in the 1966 Falk 
Lecture Series. Dr. LaBarre will discuss “The Trouble 
With Students Nowadays. . .” next Tuesday and “Why Man 
is Human” next Wednesday. Both lectures begin at 4:30 in 
GSIA auditorium. There will also be an informal discussion 
at 10:30 am Wednesday in room 107, Margaret Morrison 
Carnegie College.
Dr. LaBarre, an honor graduate 
of Princeton and Yale, has done 
extensive research work on Amer­
ican social and cultural pheno­
mena. His studies include such na­
tive American cultures as the 
Kiowa Indians, the Peyote Cult, 
and the Southeastern American 
snake-handling cult. As an an­
thropologist with a psychological 
bent, his most recent published 
work has dealt with LSD users, 
superstition, and Suicide in Scan­
dinavia.
Currently Dr. LaBarre is a 
member of Sigma Xi Scientific 
Society, and the National Science 
Foundation Fellowship Board,
and is a consultant both for Duke 
Medical Center and the Group 
for the Advancement of Psychia­
try of the Committee on Adoles­
cence.
Tfie Largest Selection of 
Imported and Dometic 
F Tobaccos o in the City\ BRIAR BOWL
3725 Forbes St
Are Nov between 18 and 25?
Are Nov married?
Could Nov maybe use 50 extra bucks?
Here’s the scoop.Sentry doesn’t think you should pay extra for car insurance—just because you’re young. The Sentry man has a questionnaire.Tells if you can save up to $50 or more.
Dan Donahue
5702 HILLTOP AVE.
Phone: 795-1393
SENTRY O INSURANCE
You will be
AUTONOMOUS 
and AUTOCHTHONOUS.
Your rewards
will be AURIFEROUS.
You will have 
the opportunity 
for intellectual
ALLOGAMY.
Renaissance types are definitely welcome at Philco! We need scientists, mathematicians 
and engineers . . . dreamers and do ers ... to help direct the world wide efforts that 
have made us a major company fast approaching $1 billion in annual sales to consumer, 
industrial and government markets. We are a major subsidiary of Ford Motor Company. 
We have 10 divisions whose diverse interests range from exploring the moon to educating 
future leaders in depressed countries . . . from Automated Biological Laboratories to 
advanced systems of communications . . . from radios to radar.
If you are interested in a fast-paced, truly rewarding career with a fast-growing com­
pany, we’d like to talk to you. We will be visiting your campus on November 16 and 17.
Contact your Placement Office. Stop by and talk to us about the future, or write to 
College Relations, Philco Corporation, C & Tioga Sts., Phila., Pa. 19134.
PHILCO WILL BE HERE ON NOVEMBER 16th and 17th
Career opportunities available on the East Coast, the Midwest, the Southwest, the West Coast, and 
throughout the world.
Divisions: Aeronutronic • Appliance • Communications <t Electronics • Consumer Electronics • International • 
Lansdale • Microelectronics • Sales <t Distribution • TechRep • Western Development Laboratories
PHILCO
A SUBSIDIARY OF
t/l'rdy ’rfétrïtÿktn 
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPIOTEI N/f

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN-Wednesday, November 9, 1966
EDITORIAL . . .
Don’t Steal; Speak
Prom time to time the Tartan has criticized those stu­
dents who “borrow” books from the library without check­
ing them out. These criticisms have taken the form of warn­
ings, pointing out the consequences of being caught with 
unchecked books; pleas, asking for the return of already 
“borrowed” books; and attempts at making the students 
who do “borrow” books realize what they are doing to other 
students.
These editorials have had questionable success, but the 
situation has improved. Fewer books are being stolen from 
the library, especially the reserve room. The library attrib­
utes this to two factors: the acquisition of more materials, 
and the improved pattern of circulation for reserve books. 
With the library open later more students are willing to sit 
in the reserve room and read the books there rather than 
taking the books out legally or illegally. Also some credit 
must be given to the students who must plan their time so 
as to obtain the books on reserve honestly.
Despite the improvements in the situation, there are 
still thefts. Recently one came to light which merits men­
tion, because of the irony involved. A book, Interpersonal 
Dynamics, in which an article, The Characteristic of a 
Helping Relationship, had been assigned, was stolen. As 
amusing as the incident, is the basic problem which it 
illustrates is s*till there. Further, the title of the material 
which was stolen shows the futility of even stealing the 
book. If an individual will not learn enough from college 
in general, even from a course in which this type of mater­
ial is assigned, then why bother reading the work, let 
alone stealing it?
It has been said by some that it is the college’s fault 
that this problem exists. “They” do not circulate the books 
as efficiently as a student stealing one can. “They” put so 
much pressure on the student to obtain high grades that he 
must resort to stealing the material he needs to read. Some 
students feel this pressure so greatly that they have stolen 
virtually every copy of a book available so as to cut out the 
competition. These kinds of rationales don’t hold much 
water.
As was cited previously the situation is improving 
through the employment of better circulation patterns, and 
this in part was brought about by students who recommend­
ed changes.
This then should be the effort of every student: to 
change the system from what it is to a better one and not 
to buck the present system. The same can be said of the 
pressure of grades or anything else: work to change what 
exists, rather than fighting it.
__carnegie tech___meStik___' TARTAN Ip
RICHARD G. SEXTRO 
Editor-In-ChiefExecutive Editor................................................SUE ATTINSON
Managing Editor............................................ERIC FELDMANN
Business Manager..............................................JUDY BIRKEN
Desk Editor........................................................BRUCE GELIN
News Editor...................................................Mike Vargo
Sports Editor............................................Larry Sikon
Photography Editor..................................John Mera
Local Advertising Manager..................Joan Jaques
National Advertising Manager.......Patricia Bowman
Layout Editor ......................................Laura Seidler
Secretarial Editor................................Diane Cushing
Circulation and Layout Advisor............Dave Rodgers
Printing Production Manager.......Harvey A. Shapiro
Printing Production Staff: Henrik Lind, Barbara Motet, Barbara Wander. 
Executive Assistants: Candy Etkin, E. W. Seley.
News Staff: Elaine Bearer, Tim Brendel, Linda Cameron, Jeff Evans, Ellen Levine, 
Richard Morrison, Diane Samuels, Joanne Schneider, Louise 
Schwerin, Jeanne Siegel, Rich Steffens, Joan Sztyga, Selina Wang, 
Linda Wenzel, Carol Nissenson, David Landsberger, Camille 
Badzgon.
Sports Staff: Don Baer, Rich Boynton, Elaine Bykowski, Mke Cooperman, Ron 
Finnin, George Smith, Mike Smolens, Jim Janke.
Layout Staff: Michael Cramer
Photography Staff: Michael Perel, David Ben Leavitt, Gordon S. Morris, Sue 
Lohmeyer, Mark Kaminsky, Paul Horvatb, Pat Stakem, Chris 
Hausler, Patti Lewis, Lanie London, Fred Rial.
Business Staff: Gail Eichner, Ted Rees, Tom McGuire.
Typing Staff: Mary Kay Cruikshank, Cheron Gelber, Jean Hammond, Harriet 
Nadel, Judy Resnik, Carol Robinson.
Editorial Board: Evan M. Melhado.
Advertising Staff: John Knechtel, Mary Olds, William Opfermann, Leonard 
Wanetik, Jane Merck.
OFFICES: Skibo, Room 50, Forbes Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213—Phone 682-4557. 
Annual Subscription Rate: $3.00 
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh, fa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.
Baltimore Grads 
Sought for Jobs
Baltimore seniors are invited by 
the Baltimore Chamber of Com­
merce to participate in the second 
annual “Operation Native Son,” 
a program designed to allow 
Baltimore students to explore ca­
reer opportunities in their home­
town.
Interviews will be held Decem­
ber 28 and 29 from 9 am to 5 pm 
in Baltimore’s Civic Center and 
Downtown Holiday Inn. Registra­
tion materials may be obtained by 
writing Elmer X. Lambdin at the 
Baltimore Chamber of Commerce. 
Students should give their name, 
address, college and major.
Dr. A. Leslie Derfler 
Chairman, H&SS Faculty
(Content,.porary(Commenta
H&SS ‘Can’t Be Weak,’ 
Says Faculty Chairman
“The Liberal Arts School can’t be the weak system 
on campus,” according to Dr. A. Leslie Derfler, history pro­
fessor and Chairman of the Humanities and Social Sciences 
faculty of Carnegie Institute of Technology. “It must be as 
good as our best schools. We have to bring the best people
to our faculty and encourage 
them to stay here.”
The H&SS faculty members are 
now submitting their opinions 
to Dean Steinberg and to Presi­
dent Stever on what shape they 
feel their new college should 
take. Meanwhile, H&SS and other 
faculty members plan to meet 
during the spring semester to di­
gest these opinions and to con­
sider current critical studies on 
liberal arts education made by 
people outside Carnegie Tech.
According to Dr. Derfler, the 
planners for the new college 
will not discard all the present 
H&SS teaching methods. Such 
strong traditions as the “induc­
tive reasoning” (which has been 
introduced to freshmen) and 
“problem solving” will perpetu­
ate the new H&SS college.
Though plans are still indefinite, 
one idea upon which the major­
ity of the H&SS faculty agrees,
Derfler feels, is that the new 
school’s teaching load, sabbatical 
policy, and wages should be just 
as attractive as those policies in 
other good liberal arts schools.
Student Opinions Sought 
In order to provoke students to 
think and form opinions, Derf­
ler cited ideas which the H&SS 
faculty has discussed though 
they have not decided upon them 
yet. For example, faculty mem­
bers feel that they should be 
encouraged in scholarly pursuits 
and that a formal sabbatical, 
policy be made. On the other 
hand, liberal arts students should 
consider whether they would 
want an instructional program 
which would emphasize individ­
ual study on the part of the stu­
dent. Would this encourage stu­
dent motivation? Should there be 
an interdisciplinary department 
enabling non-Fine Arts students 
to take new F.A. courses with a 
humanistic orientation instead of 
the present professional outlook?
Should teacher-education remain 
a separate department or be in­
tegrated into all departments?
. Would an educational center to 
train college, junior college, and 
high school teachers be advan­
tageous? What is the best way to 
evaluate teachers? What is good 
teaching? Would TV-teaching — 
i.e., flashing a faculty member 
on the screen to hear parts of 
his lecture in another professor’s 
class—be an asset to the H&SS 
school? Is there other new teach­
ing technology the H&SS school 
could use? Finally, should Car­
negie Tech adopt an inter-dis- 
ciplinary approach to enable a 
student to be in a number of de­
partments? Students are encour­
aged to submit their opinions on 
the new H&SS college to Dean 
Steinberg via campus mail.
Russian Poet 
Yevtushenko 
Reads Works
World-famous Russian 
poet Yevgeny Yevtushenko 
will read his poems in Rus­
sian with English transla­
tions November 18 at 8:30 
pm in Carnegie Music Hall, 
Oakland.
Mr. Yevtushenko’s reading is 
part of a six-week U. S. tour 
made possible by the recently 
enacted Cultural Exchange Pro­
gram between the U.S. and the 
Soviet Union.
Tickets are available from 
Kaufmann’s, Home’s, and the 
Pitt Bookstore.
No Separate 
Path
Martin Luther King‘the orator’s traditional power”
His face as he posed for the photographers was proud, quiet, 
ret, almost arrogant yet as he moved out of camera range, it relaxed 
into a gentle, humorous, and understanding smile. Thus did Dr. 
Martin Luther King appear before the Public Affairs Series assem­
bly at the University of Pittsburgh last week.
KING SPOKE before a primarily neutral northern white au­
dience with the orator’s traditional power of emotional appeal taken 
away from him, but he spoke entirely at his ease and with the elo­
quence of a man who knows himself to be the inspiration of his 
movement.
His speech had few kindnesses in it for bigotry or for white 
liberalism. He repeated the standard cries of the present day civil 
rights movement of the injustice of poverty and the need for a 
“massive action program” with a multi-billion dollar budget. Dr. 
King’s conception that this would be “but a few percent of the 
gross national product” overlooks the fact that the money he speaks 
of is not all government money.
HIS DEMANDS FOR ACTION are very unlike the speech of 
earlier years when King made the demand upon the people of the 
oppressed to stand up and become respected. His new tone reflects 
the imagination of a man who has finally glimpsed the promised 
land and is determined to have a share of it for the people he 
has been leading.
King realizes that what his people need cannot be legislated 
into existence, nor can it be only bought. They buying of a better 
life is only part of the demand that he is making. He is also asking 
for a new world, a new attitude of thinking which will accept 
him not just as a man who is making demands but also as a man 
who has struggled and won but has refused to give up the struggle. 
King has now had to class himself with those who dream of total 
union of racial understanding and racially oriented social legislation.
He recognizes that there is “no separate black path to power and 
fulfillment which does not intersect white paths.” Three years ago 
King took this stand when the idea of radical black power was first 
becoming popular and since then King has refused to be intimidated 
by the radicals.
HE HAS CAST THE FATE OF HIS IDEOLOGY upon the fickle 
waters of the political-legal world but even King, the 4over of peace, 
has realized the discouragement of the long wait. He too has begun 
to call out against the “token” programs of the administration and 
against the war in Vietnam, even to the point of stating unashamedly 
that his is the more important cause. Now instead of against the tan­
gible injustices of segregation, he fights against the more elusive 
problem of economic injustice.
King demands that the average income of the Negro family be 
raised to a par with the average white income, but he calls for a mas­
sive assault without any confidence in the present attempts. Following 
King’s recommended course of action, through the legislative meth­
od, a massive program would only be a blown-up model of the pre­
sent attempts. But if nothing is being accomplished now, three hun­
dred times nothing does not add up to this economic improvement 
that King demands.
All this King realizes, but being the leader of his people, he must 
continue to try to reach the land that he promised in Montgomery a 
decade ago.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, November 9, 1966-CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN-Page 5
Local Speak-Out 
Protests Aspects 
Of Vietnam War
Nearly 2000 people assem­
bled at Carnegie Music Hall 
last Friday night to hear 10 
speakers air their views on 
“Vietnam: The War Nobody 
Want s.” The three-hour 
speak-out included experts 
on history, ethics, economics, 
labor, law and religion. Out­
side the hall, the Young 
Americans for Freedom dis­
tributed literature and mem­
bers of the Disabled Amer­
ican Veterans marched with 
signs and flags in opposition 
to the assembly.
Thomas M. Cooley, professor of 
law at the University of Pitts­
burgh, gave the Chronological 
events which led to our present 
position in this “military adven­
ture.” John Ruskay, a political 
science major at Pitt, pointed out 
many glaring inconsistencies in 
the Administration’s present po- 
5ition in Vietnam and called for a 
re-evaluation of our foreign pol­
icy in Vietnam and elsewhere.
The district’s four congress­
men and their oponents were 
invited to the meeting but only 
Richard Thornburgh showed up. 
He spoke out for freedom of 
speech, condemned the Govern­
ment’s manipulation of informa­
tion concerning the war, and 
said that he would not be op­
posed to a temporary suspen­
sion of bombing in the North.
Di*. Walter Weist, ethics pro­
fessor at the Pittsburgh Theolo­
gical Seminary, stated that our 
means in Vietnam are unlikely 
to achieve the ends we desire. 
He pointed out that we must kill 
five civilians to get one Viet-Cong, 
and that our attempt to “save the 
Vietnamese from a fate worse 
than death” is therefore absurd.
Adverse Economic Effect 
Dr. Raymond Richmond, pro­
fessor of economics at Pitt, rap­
ped “the lack of success of oixr 
aid efforts have had all over the 
world” and illustrated the adverse 
effect of the war on the domestic 
economy. Dr. David Montgomery, 
professor of history at Pitt, dis­
cussed the meaning of American 
involvement and possible alterna­
tives to our present policy. He 
pointed out that the recent elec­
tion in South Vietnam “was a 
dilly . . . Everyone could vote if 
he was pledged to support the 
government.” He also stated that 
we are willing to negotiate with 
everyone except the force we are 
fighting—the NLF.
Thomas Quinn, business agent 
for Local 610, United Electrical 
Workers, said his union pledges 
“more efforts like those here 
tonight in order to develop a 
peoples’ power for peace.” He 
stated that "we must build a 
better life for Americans instead 
of bringing death and destruc­
tion to the Vietnamese.”
Rabbi Emanuel Baum, educa­
tional director at the Tree of Life 
Synagogue, voiced support of the 
speak-out on behalf of the Jew­
ish Community in Pittsburgh. Mrs. 
Mildred Klancey, Negro mother of 
seven from the Hill District, op­
posed the fact that Negroes are 
dying alongside whites abroad al­
though they have no rights in this 
country.
Monsignor Rice, pastor of Holy 
Rosary Church, called the war 
dirty, unmoral and murderous.” 
He said it is not aiding the politi­
cal enemy but it helps the true 
enemy—human misery. He closed 
the Speak-Out with this statement: 
Please God we’ll come to our 
senses before we destroy the 
world and ourselves.”
This Week In Pittsburgh
by Tim Brendel
MUSIC ....
YM&WHA Musical Society Series: Richard Goode, pianist. Kaufmann 
Auditorium, 315 S. Bellefield Ave. Wednesday, Nov. 9, 8:40 pm.
McGrail Opera will present a Gala. Josephine McGrail, conductor. 
Carnegie Music Hall. Friday, Nov. 11, 8:30 pm.
Pittsburgh Symphony: Isaac Stern, violin soloist; William Steinberg, 
conductor. Syria Mosque. Friday, Nov. 11, 8:40 pm; Sunday, 
Nov. 13, 3:10 pm.
Pittsburgh Flute Club: Ensemble playing by members and guests, 
7-8:15 pm. Recital by members, Sunday, Nov. 13, 8:30 pm. Du- 
quesne University School of Music. Free.
Calvary Episcopal Church: Organ Recital, Clyde Holloway from 
the University of Indiana. Sunday, Nov. 13, 8 pm. Free.
Pittsburgh Chamber Music Society: Juilliard Quartet. Carnegie Mu­
sic Hall. Monday, Nov. 14, 8:30 pm.
Carnegie Concert Series presents Stanley Werner, violinist and com­
poser, and Sidney Harth, violinist—assisting artist. Carnegie Lec­
ture Hall. Tuesday, Nov. 16, 8:30 pm.
DRAMA____
A Man’s a Man, John Hancock. Slapstick and 1920’s songs rolled into 
a black comedy of terrors. 8:30 pm, Tuesday thru Friday; Satur­
day at 7 and 10 pm; Sunday at 7:30 pm. Information at 621- 
4445, Pittsburgh Playhouse, Craft Ave. at Hamlet St. Admission 
$3.30. Now through Sunday.
Streetcar Named Desire, John Hancock. Tennessee Williams’ haunt­
ing story of a beautiful woman betrayed by love. 8:30 pm, Tues­
day thru Friday; Saturday at 7 and 10 pm; Sunday at 7:30 pm. 
Hamlet Theater, Pittsburgh Playhouse. Information at 621-4445. 
Admission $3.30.
The Duchess of Malfi, presented by the University of Pittsburgh 
Theater, Steven Foster Memorial Auditorium. Nov. 11, 12, 15, 
16, 17, and 18 at 8:15 pm; Nov. 13, at 2:30 pm; Nov. 19 at 7:15 
pm. Tickets $1 and $1.58.
LECTURES____
Poetry Reading by Richard Wilber, presented by the International 
Poetry Forum. Carnegie Lecture Hall. Wednesday, Nov. 9, 8:30 
pm. Tickets $1 and $1.50.
SPORTS____
Pittsburgh Steelers vs St. Louis. Pitt Stadium. 1 pm, Sunday, Nov. 13.
INFORAMAL ENTERTAINMENT____
The Crumbling Wall Coffee House, 4515 Forbes Ave. (near Craig 
St.). Every Friday evening, 9 pm to 1 am.______ tea, etc.
EXHIBITS____
Chinese Art Form, Collection of Walter Reed Hovey. Museum of 
Art, Carnegie Institute, 4440 Forbes Ave. Treasury Room. On 
continuous display 10 am to 5 pm, Monday thru Saturday; 2 to 
5 pm on Sunday.
Three Self-Taught Pennsylvania Artists: John Kane, Edward Hicks, 
Horace Pippin. Third Floor Galleries, Carnegie Museum. Now 
through Dec. 4.
One-Man Exhibition of Sculpture by Sylvester Damianos. Gallery K, 
Third Floor, Carnegie Museum. November through Dec. 11.
Photographs, drawings, and models by contemporary Philadelphia 
architect Louis Kahn. Galleries E-H, second floor, Carnegie Mu­
seum. November through Dec. 25.
Pittsburgh Plan for Art, 1251 N. Negley Ave. Exhibits of work by
Virgil Cantini. Now thru Nov. 16.
Old Master Drawings from the collection of the Westmoreland Coun­
ty Museum of Art. Henry Clay Frick Fine Arts Gallery, Uni­
versity of Pittsburgh. 12 noon to 4:30 pm, Monday thru Friday;
1 to 5 pm, Saturday; 2 to 5 pm, Sunday. Now thru Dec. 5.
Paintings, Crafts, and Sculpture by local artists. Gallery Downstairs, 
5413 B. Walnut St. 10 am to 4 pm, Tuesday thru Saturday; 7 
to 9 pm, Wednesday and Friday; 1 to 4 pm, Sunday.
Ceramics by Frank Wildenhain. Falk Hall Foyer. 10 am to 5 pm, 
Monday thru Saturday; 2 to 5 pm, Sunday. Now through Nov. 
22. Chatham College, Woodland Rd.
Pittsburgh Water Color Society Group Show-Natural Color Camera 
Club: Prints by Kenneth Butler and stoneware in collaboration 
with Ronald Burke. 10 am to 5 pm, Monday thru Saturday; 2 
to 5 pm, Sunday. Now thru Nov. 13. Arts and Crafts Center, 
Fifth and Shady Aves.
Fall Flower Show, Phipps Conservatory. Sunday, Nov. 6„ thru Nov. 
30. 9 am to 5 pm and 7 pm to 10 pm, everyday.
Moon Venture 1969 and NASA Space Exhibit. Buhl Planetarium. 
Sundays, 2:15, 4:15, and 8:15 pm; Weekdays, 2:15 and 8:15 pm.
Friday, 8:30 
Mudge Graduate House 
*
A Wine 
and Cheese Party 
*
Sponsored by 
The International Club
ADMISSION 
Guys, $1.00 . . . Girls, Free!
TPi
BySftKA
John Day
Don Carter
David * Henderson
TheNon-Vote
The tumult and the shouting are over. The moronic promises and 
subtle slanders have died. The American people, in their presumably 
infinite wisdom, have chosen the men who will govern them, make 
their lav/s and catch their dogs for the next two or four years.
Along with the campaigns of the politicians, we have for the 
past few weeks been subjected to an impartial and public-spirited 
TV, radio, and Boy Scout campaign to “get out and vote.” The 
apparent theory behind the campaign is that voting is a universal, 
slightly unpleasant obligation and that a vote for King Kong or 
Harold Stassen is preferable to no vote at alL
Let us consider the implications of a 100 per cent voter turn­
out in Pennsylvania. Messrs. Shapp and Shafer have both had polls 
taken and, of course, both polls promise victory to their sponsors. 
There have apparently been no impartial polls. Such a thing is a 
contradiction in terms anyway since no impartial observer would 
pay to find out something he doesn’t care about. Our attempt to 
discover the true sentiment of the entire electroate must then be 
based on the two biased polls which, when averaged together, effec­
tively cancel each other out and throw the decision to the minority 
(which both sides generously agree is tiny), unable to decide be­
tween good and evil.
It is this small group with the courage to confess that they 
don't know what’s going on, or that they like neither candidate, 
that the public-spirited get-out-and-voters would have elected 
our next governor.
We think such people should not be driven to a decision by 
the vague moral pressure of editorials urging them to vote for any­
body, so long as they vote. Such people will too often choose be­
tween Mr. Shapp’s cartooned appeals to the semi-literate or Mr. 
Shafer’s innuendoes of illegality. If the voter cannot make his de­
cision on the basis of a reasoned evaluation of platforms (which 
becomes more difficult with each election) he should not be driven 
to the polls. Far better that he should remember to buy a case 
of beer on Monday night and sit out the final decision.
Food Policy Improvements
(Continued from Page 1.) 
to meet student requests .. . they 
have not denied any reasonable 
request.”
There are 30 students—15 men 
and 15 women—on the commit- 
tee. They meet with Mr. Price 
and Purchasing Agent Steve 
Bucko over supper in Skibo 100 
every Tuesday at 6 pm.
A “Menu Committee,” com­
posed of girls from Margaret 
Morris, now complies all the 
menus. The committee members 
are Ann Rockenstein, Barrie Din­
kins, Toni Thompson, Jane Du- 
briwin, Sue Cottrell, and Miss
Eckstein of the MMCC faculty.
Since the beginning of the 
semester the committee and 
Mr. Price have examined and 
rectified a list of over 60 spe­
cific complaints on the menu 
and the service.
Last week they discussed the 
possibility of keeping the Skibo 
Snack Bar open until midnight 
on Sunday and till 1 am on other 
days. Also, Mr. Price announced 
that, due to a disproportionate 
amount of complaints about the 
Morewood food, a chef will be 
installed there permanently. 
“Girls,” explained Mr. Price, “are 
harder to please than boys.”
FOOD SERVICE POLL
Name.................................................................................
Are you on contract?...........................................................
Are you, in general, satisfied with food service this year?
If not, please comment:.,..................................................
Do you favor the three proposals listed in the Tartan? 
If not, please comment:.....................................................
Have you any suggestions of your own for Food Service?

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN-Wednesday, November 9, 1966
FLYING HOME FOR THANKSGIVING? 
Then Take The Bus To The Airport!
Buses will leave Skibo lot at 11:45, 2:45 and 4:45 sharp on 
Wednesday, November 23 (arrive at Greater Pittsburgh 
Airport by 12:30, 3:30, and 5:45). Reservations can be 
made on a first-come, first-served basis. Enclose $1.25 with 
your name, mailing address, and desired bus departure 
time. If paying by check, make check payable to "Kappa 
of Alpha Phi Omega." Send to: Shuttle Bus, c/o A Phi O, 
Box 282, Campus Mail. Your reservation will be confirmed.
• ANOTHER A PHI O SERVICE •
NAME........................................
MAILING ADDRESS..............
DESIRED DEPARTURE TIME.
PBB«wwi»wnwiw»w»iw»iiiuw»iii»iw»iiiitfiw»»i»»WBiiiu»iiimi»iiii»ii»iinimiiiiMiiiuiiiiiiimwiiiuyiwiimiiiiiiiiuii»w
Campus Camera Headquarters 
FOR ALL YOUR PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS 
WE RENT AND REPAIR TYPEWRITERS
CAMERA EXCHANGE
3711 Forbes Avenue
PHONE: 683-2181 
Student Discount on Most Items
.^.mi»f»Mtw.«wt*..«..w^..ttr«ninTminttiml|yttnuumnmuiiiiBianinmuiiuuniBmuimniiiinniiniamnnminnf
In as good a spot 
as you are today ? 
Well-informed ?
Up on things?
Intimately
acquainted with the 
state of the art in your field 
of study?
wherewill
MMibe•Tjears from now?
an original contribu­
tion to your area of 
interest. In an 
environment like 
this, there's no 
telling how far 
you can go. But this much is 
certain. You'll not be over­
looked, and you can't be 
overtaken.
Salary? Benefits? They’re 
competitive, of course. More­
over, we have an excellent 
Educational Assistance and 
Staff Scholar Program.
(Many MITRE employees 
presently attend nearby 
educational institutions includ­
ing Harvard, Boston University, 
Boston College, Brandeis, 
Northeastern, MIT, and Tufts.) 
Depending on your interests, 
qualifications and current 
openings, you may start in one 
of the following, or other, 
departments:
System Planning and 
Engineering 
Air and Missile 
Defense Systems 
System Design 
Systems Analysis 
Air Traffic Systems 
Tactical Systems 
Strategic Systems 
Range Instrumentation 
Information Sciences 
Computer & Display 
Technology 
Communications 
Electronic Warfare 
Radar Design 
and Technology 
Information Processing 
Surveillance and 
Warning Systems 
Applied MathematicsMITRE
CORPORATIONconducting interviews embrorbr13,2 
on campus November 16, 1966
H you have a B S , M S., or Ph.O in Electrical Engineering, Physics, or Mathematics and want 
more information regarding opportunities at MITRE, call collect, iames L Glinos (617)
271- 2071 or write in confidence to College Relations Coordinator, The MITRE Corporation,
Bo* 201, Bedford, Massachusetts.
Or will you (through no fault 
of your own) be dangerously 
close to the brink of 
obsolescence ?
Could happen. Often does. 
Which is one good reason to 
consider a career at MITRE.
MITRE is pioneering in the 
design and engineering of 
complex information, sensor, 
command, control and com­
munications systems for the 
United States Government.
Our assignments include such 
prominent electronic systems 
as the NORAD Combat 
Operations Center, the Back­
up Interceptor Command 
System for SAGE, and the 
National Military Command 
System (NMCS).
These projects represent the 
most important systems 
challenges of our time, and 
require the most advanced 
thinking on a broad range of 
scientific problems and the 
technologies needed to 
solve them.
As a member of the MITRE 
team, you’ll be working in an 
atmosphere of scientific 
inquiry, alongside colleagues 
of outstanding reputation, 
with the opportunity to make
Technical representa­
tives of The MITRE 
Corporation will be
Mural Showing
Richard Rappaport, a Pitts­
burgh resident and. a graduate of 
Carnegie Tech, is presently hold­
ing a one-man exhibition on the 
Tech campus.
Presently the artist is working 
on a commission for another mur­
al. This one will be of a religious 
nature.
The show is on display in the 
lobby of Skibo and will continue 
for two weeks. The murals may be 
seen daily between 8 am and 
11 pm.
TheHOUSE OF THE RISING SUN- — Friday Evening
Between Classes or at Study Break-SCOTTY'S-
OPEN TO SERVE YOU 
24 HOURS A DAY
3918 FORBES AVENUE
. . . and ... 1
ROUTE 8, NORTH OF ETNA 7918 PENN AVENUE J
m¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥»¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥
We’re coming soon. For job details and date, consult your Placement Office, now.
>1A^/P/04/V>í/i9Z//I^F5,
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER • A PLANS FOR PROGRESS COMPANY
DOESLSDIN SUGAR CUBES
SPOIL THE TASTE OF COFFEE????
about
Dr. Timothy Leary, Ph.D.
RECORDED LIVE AT THE CASTALIA FOUNDATION - DR. LEARY'S CENTER FOR 
RESEARCH ON CONSCIOUSNESS-EXPANDING DRUGS.
SEND $3.00 PER RECORD CHECK O R MONEY ORDERS ONLY. WE PAY POSTAGE!
SEND ME.............COPIES OF DR. TIMONTHY LEARY'S LP RECORDING ON LSD
ENCLOSED IS A CHECK OR MONEY ORDER FOR $......................
TO: PIXIE RECORDS, Inc.
1619 BROADWAY, ROOM 602 .....................(pie^s.RH^....................................
NEW YORK, N.Y. 10019
ADDRESS.............................................................................MONO-LONG PLAYING
(33-1/3 rpm) CITY................................................STATE...................ZIP.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, November 9, 1966-CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN-Page 7
SERENITY . . . FROM $100
A Diamond Soiatairo that has an important look. The diamond sots 
high on a tapporod prong giving maximum brillance and fir«
World’s Finest Diamond to Fit Your Budget!
JOHN M.R0BF.MV SON (¦¦
Pittsburgh—429 Wood St.
Mt. Lebanon--731 Washington Road 
East Hills Shopping Center
"Good Day, Sunshine"
Agnes Varda’s
Le Bonheur
Le Bonheur is a summer day washed in sunshine, accentuated 
with wild flowers, glowing with the love of life. If there is one 
cloud in an otherwise cloudless sky, and if the sun does disappear 
behind this cloud periodically, the cloud will dissipate and the sky,
cnee again blue and radiant, will return.
This film by Agnes Varda is not, however, a pastorale. It is a 
proof of a hypothesis. The opening sequence presents the given of
the proof: a young, married couple with two small children. The
audience is informed in the credits that the actor and actress are 
indeed married and the children are their own, which places the
0 film in a peculiar plane of reality. It is Sunday afternoon in the 
summer, the love of the family for each other and for their life 
radiates like the summer sun that bathes the sequence in a golden 
light.
After this introduction the hypothesis is stated: Happiness 
is letting life take its natural course. This statement comes, not 
from one of the characters in the film, but from another couple 
which audience sees on television. No one on the screen, how­
ever, is watching the television or is aware that theme of the 
film has been stated.¦
The actual proof then starts. The vocations of the husband— 
carpentry—and of the wife—dressmaking—are established. The wife 
makes a wedding dress for a customer and is invited to the wedding. 
A niece is bom into the family and the husband and wife celebrate 
the birth with the rest of the family. The husband falls in love with 
a girl who works at the telegraph office. She becomes his mistress 
and the triangle is constructed.
The film then moves on to Q.E.D. The husband loves both 
the wife and the mistress and will not compromise one for the 
other. The wife, when told of the mistress by her husband, com­
mits suicide. The mistress replaces the wife. The husband’s 
happiness continues only briefly interrupted by the loss of the 
wife. The film ends with the new family spending a Sunday 
afternoon in the country. The season is autumn.
Since the film does proceed like a proof, what happens often 
has the generality of a theorem or axiom. Happiness triumphs; un­
happiness is condemned. The tragedy is not the wife’s death, but 
k her inability to accept the natural order. Whether Miss Varda is 
} trying to propose a world in which all men are like the husband 
who accepts life and love as it happens, or whether she is simply 
marking the difference between a woman’s happiness and a man’s 
happiness, the result is an exquisite film.
The color photography was done by Auguste Renoir’s son, Jean, 
c'iid it creates in celluloid and light what his father created with 
canvas and pigment. The colors I found reminiscent of those used 
in Red Desert, but in this film the reference is not mechanical but 
natural. Wild flowers bathed in the golden wash of the summer sun; 
) even the primary brilliance of billboards all contribute to the suc­
cess of the film. The equivalent of the black and white face is also 
used in this film: at the end of a sequence the print is reduced to 
one of the process primaries. The next scene then faded up from 
this color or from another primary which replaces the first. The 
use of color is much more effective than any film since Red Desert 
:n that the natural color is the primary reference. The country 
scenes are often shot through wild flowers creating a soft haze over 
the action in the middle ground of the frame. The film relies on 
filters or changes to actual black and white as did A Man a 
t Woman. i
Le Bonheur is Miss Varda’s second film. Her first was Cleo 
from Five to Seven which I found belabored. Le Bonheur is as nat­
ural as a sunrise or the music on the soundtrack, which is by Mo­
zart. The film is being shown at the Shadyside with two shots that 
should only be seen by Pete Fountain and/or Rege Cordic fans. 
Otherwise drink coffee in the lobby until the feature begins.
Men 
HUSH-PUPPIES 
) LOAFERS Women
BATES FLOATERS HUSH-PUPPIES FLATS
FLORSHEIM LOAFERS DRESS SHOES
• WHITE CLINIC DUTY SHOES
3612 Forbes Ave., Oakland (Across from Strand Theatre)
Senate Downs 
Constituency 
Amendment
Student Senate has voted 
down a constitution amend­
ment calling for removal of a 
senator who moves out of his 
constituency after being 
elected.
The chief argument against 
the amendment was that it 
meant that freshman sena­
tors who pledged fraternities 
in the spring would have to 
give up their seats.
Most senators felt that a mem­
ber who changes his constituency 
by pledging (or de-activating) in 
mid-year encounters relatively few 
representational conflicts between 
his new and old constituencies. Al­
so, it was felt the Senate could 
not afford to lose interested, in­
volved freshmen.
Also at last week’s meeting, 
Phil Mason and Karen Weissman 
were elected new co-chairman of 
the General Campus Committee. 
Ron Haan, the old chairman, re­
signed because of demands on his 
time (he is currently chairman of 
the Food Service Committee).
The General Campus Commit­
tee’s subcommittee on parking 
gave a report on the meters be­
ing installed in Schenley Park 
and Forbes Avenue. Tech’s ad­
ministration has gotten the City 
of Pittsburgh to hold off on the 
installation of meters on Forbes. 
For the meters in the park, the 
school will try to obtain rates com­
parable to rates in the Skibo lot.
It was explained that meters 
are being put in the park because 
patrons of Phipps Conservatory 
have had trouble finding parking 
spaces.
Pittsburgh9s Oldest Fin* Jewelers Since 1832 
3 FINE STORES
cfuâive at l&obertô
So Where Do You Get Shelving Around Here?
WALLYS
CAMPUS-FAVORED
BROWNS HILL BUILDERS SUPPLY CO. 
—that's where. Off Beechwood Blvd. 
towards the Homestead Bridge in 
Squirrel Hill. They're terrific there. 
They have several kinds of boards 
and display many shelf brackets and 
brick. They even cut to your size. 
Who put this ad in? . . . THEY DID! 
.. .421-3500.
You’re making a statement when 
you wear this Arrow Decton 
Perma-lron Cum Laude. With 
authentic detailing, too. Gently 
flared button-down collar.
Back collar button and box pleat. 
Shoulder to waist taper. 
“Sanforized’' labeled.
Wear it and make a statement: 
it’s great to be alive.
$7.00 long sleeves.
$6.00 short sleeves.
In plaids and solid colors.
-ARROW-
How to make a bold statement.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN—Wednesday, November 9, 1966
What’s Doing 
On Campus
by Joanne Schneider 
and Joann Sztyga
WEDNESDAY, November 9th
10 :30-3:00—Women’s Club Sewing Group, 
Highlander Room.
4 :80-6:45—Pi Delta Epsilon, Wherrett
Room.
4:30—I.M. Soccer—EJ’s vs BSR, Field 
A (Forbes); Architects vs PKT, field 
B (parking lot).
5 :30-7 :30—Delta Delta Delta, Skibo 46.
6:30—Flying Club, ground school, PH
126B.
7 :00-8:00—Sigma Kappa, Skibo 40.
7:00^8:30—Beginning Guitar, Skibo 56.
7 :30—Oratory, Highlander Room.
7 :30—Tech Hillel meeting, Skibo 54.
THURSDAY, November 10th
3:30—Department of Computer Science 
Seminar. “Sol and Simula, a Compari­
son of Two Simulation Languages.” Gil 
Hansen. PH 223D.
4:30—Dr. Bernhard Witkop will speak on 
“The Role of Bio-Chemistry in Drug 
Design.” Wherrett Room'.
4:30—I.M. Soccer—Grad Nads vs TDP, 
Field A BTP "A” vs SAE, Field B.
5:30—Student Oratory, Skibo 39.
7:00-ll :00—A Phi O, Skibo 40.
8:00—Viet Wives Club, Skibo 45.
8:00—Theology class, Skibo 55.
FRIDAY, November 11th
4:30—I.M. Soccer—PKA ‘Garnet” vs 
Architects, field A. SN vs EJ’s, Field 
B.
4 :30-5:30—Mrs. Caryl Kline, Director of 
the program for women’s education at 
the University of Pittsburgh will speak 
on “The Changing Roles of Women.” 
Breed Hall MiMCC.
4:30 — 6:00 TC.IF, Skibo^
7 :00 and 10 :00—Friday Cine-Series, The 
Big Sleep, admission 25c for Y-mem- 
bers and 50c for non-members. PH100.
8:90—“House of the Rising Sun,” in­
formal coffee house, Harvey Lord Quin­
tet. Admission—50c.
8:30—Wine and Cheese Party, Interna­
tional Club. Admission: $1.00 for guys, 
girls admitted free. Mudge Graduate 
House.
9:00-11:00—Ceilidh, Wherrett Room.
SATURDAY, November 12th
10:00—I.M. Soccer—PKA “Gold” vs Jags, 
Field A DU vs DTD, Field B.
11:30—I.M. Soccer—ATO vs BSR, Field 
A. BTP “B” vs PKT, Field B.
1:00-3:00—Scotch ‘n’ Soda, Skibo 54.
1:30—Kappa Alpha Theta, Skibo 55.
1:30-5 :00—Project Upward Bound, Skibo 
40.
8 .-00—Tech Hillel Bowling Party.
SUNDAY, November 15th
11 K)0—Protestant Service, Skibo 39.
9:00, 10:30, 12:00—Mass, Scaife Audi­
torium.
11:00-3:00—Scotch ‘n’ Soda, Skibo 54.
2:00—Publications Open House, Wherrett 
Room.
7:30-10:90—Chess Club, Skibo Ballroom.
MONDAY, November 4th
4 :30—Meeting of Thistle photographers. 
Skibo 53.
7 :00 and 9:00—Dorm Movie, Good Neigh­
bor Sam, Wherrett Room.
TUESDAY, November 5th
11:30—John Jacob Niles Assembly, Skibo 
Ballroom.
4:30—1966 Falk Lecture Series, “The 
Trouble with Students Nowadays . . .” 
Professor Weston LaBarre. GSIA audi­
torium.
4 :30-6:00—Tau Beta Pi, Skibo 54.
6:00-8 :00—Chi Omega, Skibo 46.
7 :30—Explorer's Club, Skibo 45.
7:30-9:00—Photography Class, Skibo 55.
8:00—Carnegie Tech Dames. Dr. Phyllis
When You Mist Keep Alert
When you can’t afford to be drowsy, 
inattentive, or anything less than all 
there. .. here’s how to stay on top. WERW Continuous Action Alertness 
Capsules deliver the awakeness of 
two cups of coffee, stretched out 
up to six hours. Safe r«» 1
and non-habit-forming. |W/
Continuous Action / 
Alertness Capsules
Martin will speak on “More About 
the Birds and Bees.” Highlander Room.
:00-11:00—Folk 
Ballroom.
Dancing Club, Skibo
Juilliard Quartet 
Here Monday
The famous Juilliard String 
Quartet will perform Monday 
night in Carnegie Music Hall, Oak­
land. The program consists of 
Schubert’s Quartet in C minor, C. 
703; Bartock’s Quartet No. 6; and 
Beethoven’s Quartet No. 13 in B. 
flat minor, Opus 130, with Grosse 
Fuge. Tickets are available from 
the Pittsburgh Chamber Music 
Society at 621-3500, ext. 566.
WjeuL _4t
Woderate Price,, . . .
Or ^djter heater
Snach ... olt *ljes
. . We Also Have . .17 Varieties of Pancakes 
(Forbes & Atwood—6 a.m.-3 a.m.)
Save 528 Steps
I
«
I«
Want to be footloose and fancy, too? 
Then we suggest you take a stroll 
through scenic Schenley Park and shop 
around at THE UNIVERSITY SHOP . . . 
We took a survey . . . don't ask 
us why . . . and we discovered that we're 
the nearest fine clothing store 
which caters to the college man 
and young executive. Actually 528 steps 
closer to the administration building at 
Tech than our closest rival. So visit 
THE UNIVERSITY SHOP . . . you'll save in 
more ways than walking.
PJS.—If you want to take the walking 
survey to check up on us, we can 
take care of your shoe needs, too!
PITT CAMPUS—Schenley Dormitories 
3939 Forbes Ave., Pgh. 13-MU. 3-6757 
Open Mon. thru Sat. 10 to 6 
Thur*. Till 9:00Htttormig
complete wardrobes for the college man and young executive
Naval Ship Systems Command needsengineers
ELECTRICAL • ELECTRONIC • MECHANICAL MARINE • NUCLEAR • NAVAL ARCHITECTS
for research, development, design and project 
management on our current programs: Communications 
Satellites, Submarine Rescue Vehicles, Deep Ocean 
Search Vehicles, Aircraft Carriers, Hydrofoils
ELECTRICAL
ELECTRONICS
Control Systems
Communications
Computers
Countermeasures
Radar
Sonar
Undersea Communications 
Instrumentation
CIVIL
Hull Structures 
Deep Diving Pressure 
Capsules 
Arrangements 
Armament
MECHANICAL
Hydraulic Power Systems
Turbines
Diesels
Environmental Control Systems 
Propellers
Mr. Cornell will be on campus on November 29to discuss positions in the above fields with you.See your placement office to schedule an appointment.
Cut along dotted line and mail to: 
NAVAL SHIP SYSTEMS COMMAND 
CODE 20325 
WASHINGTON. D. C.
An Equal Opportunity Employer
I would like additional information on 
I am majoring in----------------------------------
and will be available for permanent employment
? I plan to talk to your representa- ? I do not plan to talk to your rep- 
tive on campus. resentative on campus.
Name
Address
CityStateZip Code
Telephone No.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, November 9, 1966—CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN—Page 9
SOCCER
Warriors League
The Grad Nads again this year 
look like the team to beat after 
impressive victories over DTD 10- 
0 and DU 6-3. In the only other 
game of the week, TDP slipped 
by a strong DU defense by a 1-0 
score.
Standings
W
2
1
0
0
Grad Nads 
TDP 
DTD 
DU
Hawks League 
In the only two games of the 
week, first seeded PKA “Garnet” 
scored an impressive 4-0 win over 
PKT while the Architects edged 
BTP “B” 1-0.
Standings
W
1
1
0
0Plaid League
The EJ’s “B” team completed 
a good week for the dorm teams 
by also finishing unbeaten. Cap­
tain Don Horr’s squad topped BTP 
and BSR by forfeit, and defeated 
DTD 3-0 to gain a berth in the 
playoffs. In other action, SN tight­
ened its grip on second place by 
defeating BTP 2-0 and GSIA “B” 
by forfeit. DTD kept its hopes for 
second place alive by downing 
winless TX 2-1.
Standings
PKA
Architects 
PKT
BTP “B”
Bullets League
In games last week, SN defeat­
ed a stubborn BSP team 3-0 with 
two goals coming in the final five 
minutes of play. In other action,
ATO edged the EJ’s 2-1.
Standings
W L
SN 1 0
ATO 1 0
BSR 0 1
EJ’s 0 1
Celtics League 
BTP“A’’ scored impressive vic­
tories over PKA “Gold” 9-0 and 
the Jags 3-0. In the only other 
game, SAE handed PKA “Gold” 
their second loss by a 2-1 score.
Standings
W L
BTP “A” 2 0
SAE 1 0
:j HARVARD BUSINESS SCHOOL INTERVIEWS
\ Mr. Richard L. Nohl, a member of the Admissions Board 
at the Harvard University Graduate School of Business 
' Administration, will be at Carnegie Tech on Wednesday, 
\ November 16, to talk to men and women interested in 
graduate study in business as career of excitement and 
creative opportunity. Requirements for admission for the 
two-year course, leading to a degree of Master in Business 
Administration (M.B.A.), include a college degree in any 
^ field of concentration, a standing in at least the top third 
of the class, the military, or elsewhere. Seniors, or others, 
0 wishing to talk to Mr. Nohl should contact the Bureau of 
Placement for an appointment.
PKA “Gold” 
Jags
TENNIS
Tartan League
The EJ’s “A” team under cap­
tain Bob Lowe, won four straight 
matches this week to finish the 
regular season undefeated. The 
EJ’s who defeated TDP 3-0, GSIA 
“E” 3-0, Grad Nads “A” 3-0 and 
the EJ’s “C’ 2-1, will face the 
second place team from the Plaid 
League in the first round of the 
playoffs.
Standings
EJ’s “A” 
Grad Nads “ 
PKT 
TDP
SAE “Lions” 
GSIA “E” 
EJ’s “C”
A”
W
6
3
1
1
1
0
0
EJ’s“B”
W
7
L
0
SN51
DTD32
BTP22
Grad Nads “AA”02
TX03
GSIA“B”03
BSR04
GOING
TO
NEW
YORK?
For Thanksgiving Vacation 
Travel to New York 
by Chartered Bus
?
The bus leaves the Skibo Parking Lot 
at 5:00 p.m. on Wednesday, No­
vember 23 (to arrive at the Port 
Authority Terminal at 1:00 a.m.) and 
will be returning from Sloane House 
(Y.M.C.A. on 34th Street) at 3:00 p.m. 
on Sunday, November 27 (avoiding 
crowds and delays at the Terminal). *
Write your check to Stephen Wein- 
reich for $17.50 (Round Trip) or 
$10.00 (one way) and send it to Box 
250, Campus Mail.?“I’ll see you on the bus!”
STEVE WEINREICH, Box 250 *
(No refunds for cancellations 
after November 19th)
Early season action in IJVL soccer.
STANDINGS
Set League
SAE “A”
Algorithms 
TDP “C”
Kappa Sigma 
PKA 
Serve League 
ATO “A”
SAE “B”
PKT
DTD
EJ’s
A.LLSpike League
BTP “A”
W LTDP “IM”
3 0SAE “C”
3 1Comp Center
2 2GSIA
1 2ATO “F”
0 4Pass League
W LTDP “A”
3 0SN
3 1“F” Troop
2 2TX
1 3BTP “P”
0 3SAE “D”
W
5
3 
2 
2 
1 
0
w
4 
3 
3 
2 
1 
0
GSIA Appointments
Michael M. Gold and Arnold 
J. Lieberman have been appoint­
ed to the faculty of the Graduate 
School of Industrial Administra­
tion at Carnegie Institute of 
Technology.
Mr. Gold has been named a 
Research Associate at Tech. He 
received his bachelor’s degree 
from Boston University in 1962 
and his master’s from Massa­
chusetts Institute of Technology 
in 1964. He was previously a 
Ford Foundation Doctoral Fel­
low at MIT and expects to re­
ceive his doctorate this year.
Mr. Lieberman has been ap­
pointed a Special Assistant to 
the Dean of the Graduate School 
of Industrial Administration. He 
received his bachelor’s degree 
from Tech in 1965 and his mas­
ter’s in industrial administration 
in 1966.
TG I F
Friday
4:30
Skibo
Ballroom
a.dia.'tio xr aboratory
UNIVERSITY of CALIFORNIA 
Livermore, California
OPERATED BY THE UNIVERSITY OF 
CALIFORNIA FOR THE UNITED STATES 
ATOMIC ENERGY COMMISSION
MAJOR PROGRAMS NOW UNDER WAY:
PLOWSHARE —Industrial and scientific uses of 
nuclear explosives. WHITNEY—Nuclear weapons for 
national defense. SHERWOOD—Power production 
from controlled thermonuclear reactions. BIOMEDI­
CAL—The effects of radioactivity on man and his en­
vironment. SPACE REACTOR —Nuclear power 
reactors for space explorations...far-reaching pro­
grams utilizing the skills of virtually every scientific 
and technical discipline.
Laboratory staff members will be on campus to 
interview students in the Sciences and Engineering
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18
Call your placement office for an appointment.
U. S. Citizenship Required • Equal Opportunity Employer
For 67 ...the best shapes in Pgh. come from...
M.W. MOTOR
Pittsburgh's Factory Dealer
ROUTE 8, ETNA

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10—CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN-Wednesday, November 9, 1966
Tartans Lose To Titans, 21-0; 
Face W&J In Season Finale
The Garnegie Tech Tartans lost their second consecutive game last Saturday in a 
contest that was marred by poor weather conditions. The long awaited aerial battle 
between Westminster passing ace Smitty Co rnell and Tech’s Tom Hubka was never real­
ized due to the unfavorable passing condi-tions of rain, sleet, and snow. (Note snow­
storm in game photo.) The deciding factor,however, came in the powerful ground at­
tack of the Titans and resulted in a 21-0 loss for the Tartans.
After an exchange of downs 
early in the first quarter, the Ti­
tans took possession of the ball 
on their own 44-yard line. Half­
back Paul Smargiasso and Chuck 
Kurtz brought the Titans to the 
Tech 44 after which Cornell fired 
a bomb to Kurz, moving them to 
the 18. Smargiasso then ran around 
left end for the TD and Ron Wheel­
er added the extra point.
After a fumble by Ken Bator- 
ski, Westminster started another 
drive that resulted in a touch­
down when Smargiasso burst 
through left tackle and then spun 
outside and rambled own the side­
lines for the second TD. Wheeler 
once again added the PAT.Tartan Photo by Mark Kaminsky
Ken Batorski is hit for a loss by stubborn Titan defense.
'Tartan Photo by Mark Kaminsky 
Getto runs off tackle.
The final score of the game 
came early in the second half 
when Titan safety Chuck Smith 
intercepted a Tom Hubka pass and 
ran ten yards to the end zone.
The Tartan offense never had a 
worse day. They never advanced 
the ball inside the Westminster 
35 and Tom Hubka was able to 
complete only eight of 23 passes. 
The ground atack could not move 
the ball all day and ended up with 
a net gain of two yards for the 
afternoon.
Next week the Tartans close 
their 1966 season as they travel 
to Washington, Pa. to take on the 
Presidents of Washington and Jef­
ferson. Last week, W & J lost to 
Bethany, 19-6. The game starts 
at two pm and can be heard on 
WRCT.
Cross-Country Team 
Closes Perfect Season
Last Wednesday, the Carnegie Tech cross-country 
team completed an undefeated season by downing Bethany 
18-39. The Tartans have been undefeated for three of the 
past four years and the team’s seniors will leave with a 
record of 50 wins, two losses, and one tie.
Against Bethany, Tech captur­
ed the first four places. Senior 
co-captains Burkholder and 
Cairns took the first two places 
while underclassmen Flynn and 
Butler took 3rd and 4th.
The next three places were 
Masquelier, and Ward. Tech’s 
captured for Bethany by Sniffon, 
Peschel took 8th and completed 
the scoring for Tech.
Four seniors, Harry Burkhold­
er, Rodger Cairns, Kem Phillips, 
and Dennis Collins ran in their 
last meet for Tech. They have 
led a strong team to spectacular 
success in four years and are 
leaving places that are going to 
be hard to fill.
Tech vs Bethany Results:
CIT B.
H. Burkholder 
R. Caims
Time
23:24
:51
Statistics
Scoring
Tcch
4
Westminster
First Downs 16
2 Yards Rushing 212
92 Yards Passing 112
8-23 Passes 8-15
1 Passes had intercepted 0 
1 Fumbles Lost 2
10-29.8 Punts 6-29.7
Tech — 0 0 0 0—0
Westminster—14 0 7 0—21
Asian Lecture
“The Asian Mind” will be the 
subject of the first lecture in the 
1966-67 Carnegie Forum series 
sponsored by the Alumni Feder­
ation of Carnegie Institute of 
Technology. The lecture is at 
5:45 pm tomorrow at Skibo.
Guest speaker at this forum 
will be Professor Irwin J. Schul- 
man, a member of the political 
science department of the Uni­
versity of Pittsburgh. Schulman 
has traveled extensively in East 
Asia and has specialized in Chi­
nese affairs. Refreshments and 
dinner will precede the lecture. 
Reservations for the three Car­
negie Forums can be made with 
the Alumni Office.
(Continued from Page 1.) 
television station in Carnegie’s 
future “came right out of the 
blue,” said the president. “It 
was very easy to make the de­
cision” .. . WQED has generated 
“quite a bit of excitement in 
every area of Carnegie Tech.” 
Physical development of the 
campus depends entirely on suc­
cess in raising funds. John John­
son, Vice-President for Planning, 
has worked out a schedule for a 
development drive which shows 
that Tech Carnegie “will be lucky 
to complete preliminaries for the 
drive by a year from January.” 
A major difficulty in fund-rais­
ing, according to Stever, is that 
“Donors always have things on 
their own mind” concerning how 
their money should be used, and 
these ideas do not necessarily 
coincide with the school’s ideas.
Stever answered several ques­
tions and problems of student liv­
ing conditions. The chief source of 
misunderstanding between stu­
dents take a “short-range view” 
of the school’s problems — which 
will benefit them most in their 
four or five years here—while ad­
missions have a long-range view­
point.
Tuition, warns Stever, will go 
up. A decision to freeze tuition 
as its present level “would be 
a decision that means, five or 
ten years from now, Carnegie 
Tech would be lower on the to­
tem pole.”
Housing and parking were the 
chief “living” problems the presi­
dent discussed. New ideas in ar­
rangements and building sites are 
needed for dormitories. An infir­
mary should be built .
Housing Plans 
New facilities for women, “when 
and if’ they are built, will “very 
probably be of the apartment type 
On fraternity housing, Stever 
says “In the long run it is better 
for all fraternities to be in our 
housing.” It is safer and “it is 
better for all fraternities to have 
relatively equivalent housing.”
On parking, the president says 
'“Believe it or not, Carnegie Tech 
does not have as bad a parking 
problem as most urban universi­
ties.” Hypothetical future parking 
sites include the Bureau of Mines 
and Panther Hollow. From the 
“long-range” view Stever looked 
to the day when the physical di­
vision of the campus could be 
eliminated by making Forbes 
Avenue a “campus street”
The Foul Line
by LARRY SIKON
Tartan Sports Editor
I received a letter recently from Chris Macosko, who you prob­
ably remember as one of the outstanding Tech athletes and scholars 
and is now attending Imperial College in England. Chris had a 
rather amusing story about how cross-country is worked in Eng­
land, and I think that it’s worth reading, so here it is.
Dear Larry,
As I set here waiting for the team bus, with mud-caked shoes 
and socks full of burrs, with my wet, splattered track suit beside 
me and some blood still on my shoulders I thought I’d tell you 
about a sport the British call cross-country. Similarities between 
it and the Carnegie sport of the same name are very remote.
Today we (Imperial College) ran three other London Univer­
sity Colleges, University College, Goldsmiths, and London School 
of Economics outside the city. It has been raining here—what else. 
We warmed up around some green, spongy rugby fields. At the 
start they advised us it was a “right hand” course. Apparently no 
one ever comes early enough to go over a course.
We started off on an innocent meadow. Then the course rapidly 
narrowed to a hold in the hedges, all ten of us trying to slam into it. 
Then the path became a muddy uphill slide on the edge of a ditch.
This improved enough after a half-mile for me to lift my eyes 
from the ground. Ahead was a fence. A fence. I actually stopped 
and starled. A real five-foot fence with people in track shorts crawl­
ing under and over it. I tried a Western roll and came down right 
on the top rung. Thud. I must have looked like a big bug pinned 
to a match stick, but I couldn’t laugh with the wind knocked out 
of me.
We eventually topped the hill, but my joy was short-lived. 
Another fence—this one was barbed wire. I stopped and carefully 
jumped over—boosted a bit by the sight of some hapless Saxon, who 
had tried crawling under, impelled on the barbs.
The fence proved the edge of a lovely green cow pasture full 
of cows and etc. It took some clever footwork to get across still 
smelling only sweaty.
Several more fences, a barnyard, some road and we were going 
hack down. I started to move taking advantage of the downhill—
right through a patch of nettles. Oh pain! I can still feel it. Then 
we crashed through a slot in the hedges, leaving flesh on either side, 
onto into a ploughed field. Did you ever try to run, even walk, across 
deep soggy freshly turned furrows? It’s worse than loose sand. 
Every step is a trudging slow motion—“slogging” as they call it.
As I was wondering how the Norman ever conquered them, 
the field house and rugby fields came into view. “I must not be 
too bad, not many at the finish, yet. Oh no . . .” We turned sharply 
uphill again. Another lap of the same thing to make it six miles.
Needless to say at the end I was wishing for those nice, clean, 
dry Schenley hills. After the race, a teammate told me that last 
year they had to wave through a canal in December. I guess it 
could be worse. Good luck to the Tech tetam the rest of the season.
CIT B. Time
LEWIS
d alrs-lir/xii r>
RADIO - ELECTRIC CO 
SUPPLIED 
RADIOS 
HIGH FIDELITY 
TELEVISION 
RECORD PLAYERS
House of 
The Rising Sun 
Coffee House
HARVEY LORD QUINTET 
Friday Evening
B. Flynn 
J. Butler 
P. Sniffon 
J. Masquelier 
R. Ward 
D. Peschel 
K. Phillips 
B, Jarman
:54
24:33
:43
25:04
:07
:11
:13
:37
Tech To Play 
NOTRE DAME
Last Saturday in an away match 
held at Allegheny College in 
Meadville, the Tartans topped the 
gators with a score of 1390-1360. 
Counting for the Tartans were Ted 
Mackovich 280, Leighton Westlake 
and Dick Damberg 278, and Fred 
Kline and Eric Sandgren 277. Capt. 
Steinbach, coach of the rifle team 
was especially pleased with Sand- 
gren’s performance as he is a 
freshman and will have an op. 
portunity to develop even further.
Next week Tech will travel to 
Cincinnati for the Walsh Invita­
tional held at Xavier University. 
Approximately 35 colleges will be 
participating in the match, among 
them Notre Dame, The University 
of Kentucky, and Ohio State Uni­
versity. The Tartans have high 
hopes of putting in an excellent 
performance and based on their 
past record this not unlikely. The 
All - Army International Rifle 
Team will be at the match to 
give a demonstration of superior 
shooting and to hold a clinic for 
participants in the Invitational.
WARA Begins 
Volleyball
With the end of the field hockey 
season, the Women’s Athletic and 
Recreation Association is now 
sponsoring volleyball and co-ed 
Tarquans. Volleyball started Mon­
day, with practices to be held 
Monday, Tuesday, and Thursday 
afternoons in the gym. All inter­
ested women are invited to join 
the team.
Tarquans, co-ed synchronized 
swimming is being held every 
Tuesay night at 7:30 in the pool. 
Tarquans will present a swimming 
show in the early spring. Any in­
terested guys or girls are welcome 
to come and swim with the group. 
Swimmers should bring their own 
towels to the pool.
Linda Hood was elected next 
year’s field hockey manager, suc­
ceeding Liese Hess. This year’s 
team played two games against 
Chatham and one against Pitt- 
The fourth game was cancelled 
because of cold weather. Due to 
inexperience of several new play­
ers and injuries to the starting 
center forward and goalie, the 
team was unable to win any 
games. Miss Jane Fisk, the team’s 
coach, says that she has high 
hopes for a successful season next 
year.
?
