VOL. 42—No. 22CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.WEDNESDAY, APRIL 27, 1949
Woody Herman To Play For Carnival
Queen Election
An all-school election for the 
purpose of choosing a Spring 
Carnival Queen and her court 
will be held this Friday, from 
11:30 to 1:30. Polling places will 
be in Industries hall, Skibo, 
Margaret Morrison, and Fine 
Arts. All full-time day students 
are eligible to vote but must 
bring their activities cards with 
them. The election is under the 
supervision of APO.
New Cano Issue 
On Sale Monday
A new issue of Cano, campus 
literary magazine, Will go on sale 
Monday. Featured in the issue 
will be “On This Hour,” a story 
written by Jane Harris.
New staff members for the 
magazine will be elected in the 
near future.
10:30 a. 
1:00 p.
2:00 p. 
8:30 p
Tartan Elects New Staff
Albert F. Kimmel Named Editor;
Herbert Stone Business Manager
Elections for next year’s Tartan staff have placed Albert 
F. Zimmel in the editor’s chair and Herbert Stone in that of 
the business manager.
Kimmel, who served this year first as the Tartan’s Student 
Council reporter and later as* 
chief copy editor, is from Chica­
go, Illinois, and a junior in the 
metallurgy department. He is a 
members of Theta Xi fraternity 
and has been called to membership 
in Tau Beta Pi.
One Position Dropped
Stone has served for the 
year as the Tartan’s 
business manager and is a 
mechanical engineer from Har­
risburg, Pennsylvania. He is a 
member of Tau Delta 
nity.
In a readjustment in the staff 
positions, the position of asso­
ciate editor created just two 
ago, has been dropped 
duties associated with it 
the managing editor, 
managing editor will 
Offermann, sophomore printer 
from Grand Island, New York.
Offerman, a member of Kappa 
Sigma fraternity, has been sports 
editor of the Tartan for the 
year.
Editorial Positions
Bill Dorn, sophomore physicist 
and presently chief sports report­
er, will become the sports editor.
Tom Birch and Lloyd Dyer, both: 
freshmen, have been promoted to 
news and chief copy editors re­
spectively. The make-up editor 
will be Ralph Painter, sophomore 
printer, and a member of Theta 
Xi.
Robert Kubiak, who served this 
year as news editor, will become 
personnel manager. Kubiak is a 
sophomore in P&D, and a mem­
ber of Delta Upsilon fraternity.
Business Staff
Morty Baker was named adver­
tising manager and Clarence 
Smith will be circulation manager.
Baker and Smith are both fresh­
men.
The positions of art editor and 
features editor were not imme­
diately filled.
new Tartan editor.
Carnival Tickets
Spring Carnival tickets go on 
sale tomorrow in Skibo from 
11:30 to 1:30 and will be sold 
daily until they 
The ticket price is a new low 
this year at $4.75 per couple, 
which covers both the Friday 
and Saturday night dances.
Sales will be*on a “first come, 
first serve” basis until sold out. 
No registration card is needed 
to purchase a ticket. Only 1150 
tickets will be sold, to take no 
chances—buy yours early!
EE, ME Hold
Open House
Unusual Demonstrations 
Planned For Visitors
CIT students will transmit mu­
sic over light beams and will cure 
automobile engine knock with wa­
ter in a joint electrical and me­
chanical engineering open house 
on the campus Friday night and 
Saturday afternoon April 29 and 
30.Machinery Hall, which houses 
the Elecarical and Mechanical En­
gineering departments, will be 
open to the public from 7 to 10 
p. m. Friday and from 1 to 5 p. 
m. Saturday for student demon­
strations of the work in these dé- 
partments.
In the electrical engineering 
laboratories, visitors will see a 
radar skyline of Oakland, dramatic 
displays of high voltage, and will 
be able to trace their voices on a 
screen after speaking into a mic­
rophone.Mechanical engineering students 
will demonstrate a hot-cold pipe 
which blows hot air out of one 
end and cold air out of the other 
end at the same time. They will 
also show how a smoke-filled wind 
tunnel is used to test wings of 
aeroplanes.The open-house is being spon­
sored by the mechanical engi­
neering honorary, Pi Tau Sigma, 
the electrical engineering society, 
Eta Kappa Nu, and by the stu­
dent chapters of the American 
Institute of Electrical Engineers 
and the American Society of Me­
chanical Engineer«.
Full Program 
For Carnival 
Announced
Greater Midway Opens 
Carnival On May 12
Carnival Program
Thursday, May 12
4:30 p. m.—Midway Opens. 
Friday, May 13
9:30 a. m.—W eighing and 
judging of push- 
mobiles for design, 
m.—Pushmobile races, 
m.—Coronation of Car­
nival Queen, 
m.—Float Parade 
m.—Musicale, featuring 
Benny Benack and 
his band.
9:00 p. m.'a—Starlite Hop. 
Saturday, May 14
1:00 p. m.—Pushmobile finals. 
1:30 p. m.—Skits by various 
women’s groups in 
Little Theater. 
9:00-1:00 a. m.—Formal Dance 
—Woody Herman’s 
Orchestra.Intermission Time — Awarding 
of: (1.) Pushmobile prizes
(2) Float prizes (3.) Skit 
prizes.
Carnival gets off to a big start 
this year with the opening of the 
Midway on Thursday afternoon 
This year the Midway will be fur­
nished with a greater number and 
variety of booths and midway 
rides.
At the present time 25 organiza­
tions intend to operate one or 
more booths on the cut 
Penn Amusement company will 
offer five thrill rides instead of 
three of last year. The booths will 
range from the annual “Duck-A- 
Beta” to a miniature golf course. 
Fast Moving
One event will follow another in 
rapid order on Friday, May 13. 
The morning program will fea­
ture the pushmobiles. Various or- 
[Continued on page 2]
The Herd’ To Furnish 
Saturday Night Music
Benny Benack’s Orchestra To Play
For Friday Evening Street Dance
For once the rumors were right!
Yes, it’s going to be the Woody Herman “Herd” playing for 
the Spring Carnival dance on May 14, featuring the peerless clari­
net of the maestro himself, and the vocals of Mary Ann McCall.
Stars with the band are famed trombonist Bill Harris, who 
won a hatfull of awards as the nation’s top jazz trombonist a few 
years ago, and vibraphonist Terry Gibbs.
—-------------------------------------------------? Benack To Play
Benny Benack’s band, made up
Woody Herman
Mary Ann McCall
Huckster Repplier Returns 
To CIT As Assembly Speaker
T. S. Repplier, Carnegie graduate, now president of The Ad­
vertising Council Inc. of Washington is coming back to hie col­
lege to address the student assembly on May 3.
It is rather uncommon when a man who graduates as an engineer 
-----——---------------------------------------?becomes one of the nation’s lead­
ers in the field of advertising. But 
that is just what happened in the 
case of “Ted” Repplier, who last 
year was awarded the gold medal 
for “distinguished services to ad­
vertising” by “Advertising and 
Selling,” that field’s biggest trade 
publication.
Repplier has behind him a bril­
liant career in promotional work 
which started with the Bell Tele­
phone System soon after - gradu­
ation in 1923 and carried through 
the war years when he was cam­
paign manager of the War Man­
power Commission.
In the latter position he pro­
jected and executed the long range 
program to induce women to work 
in industry, make more volunteer 
farm labor available, promoted 
women recruits for the distaff 
military units among other things.
exclusively of Carnegie students, 
has been signed to play for the 
Friday night street dance. This
is the band that was such a hit 
at the Student Council musicale 
and dance on April 2.
Herman’s band completed the 
long, hard climb to the top of the 
musical ladder in 1945 when it 
was voted the “Nation’s Number 
One Band in five major nation­
wide polls. That was the year 
when his records of “Caledonia,” 
“Bijou,” “Apple" Honey,” and 
“Surrender” scored successive 
smash hits with the music public.
Presents “First”
In March of 1946 Herman and 
the band were presented at Car­
negie Hall in New York in a con­
cert of modern American music. 
It was on this occasion that Her­
man first performed the Ebony 
Concerto written especially for 
him by the famed composer Igor 
Stravinsky.
Late in 1946 Herman disbanded 
his band for a much deserved rest, 
taking up again around Christmas 
of 1947, when he opened with his 
new band at the Hollywood Palla­
dium. Since then he has been 
playing dates from coast to coast.
Hollywood Sensation
The Herman band grew from a 
cooperative jazz group, made up 
of members of the Isham Jones 
band, in the mid-thirties. After a 
long struggle to get its “progress­
ive” style of music accepted, the 
band finally arrived when its rec­
ord of “Woodchoppers’ Ball” was 
released in 1939.
Then the gates of Hollywood 
swung wide for Herman and Co. 
and the pictures “Wintertime,” 
“What’s Cookin’,” “Sensations of 
1944,” “New Orleans,” and “Earl 
Carroll’s Vanities” followed.
The draft and early stages of 
the war caused such rapid changes 
in personnel that Woody was 
forced to dissolve the corporation. 
When he started it again later, he 
was sole owner of the band, which 
by that time had converted from 
Dixieland Blues to modern jazz form.
Camping Trip Set 
By YMCA, YWCA 
In Cook’s Forest
YMCA and YWCA campers 
will pack up for their annual 
camping trip to Cook’s Forest re­
treat on April 29. The number of 
campers will be limited to 75, 
with the fee set at $5.00 per per­son.
Also attending the retreat, 
which will last from April 29 to 
May 1, will be Dr. W. F. Orr and 
Professor B. von Haller Gilmer.
Included in the schedule for the 
outing are three lectures, a bon­
fire, dance, and other recreation­
al activities.
Transportation will be provid­
ed.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTAN"WEDNESDAY, APRIL 27. 1949
l^ar ncgie T art an
OFFICES: Carnegie Onion, 5075 Forbes St., Pittsburgh, Pa. TELEPHONE: SC. 4557; after hours MU. 5365. SC. 8951.Published weekly during the school year, except Holidays and examination periods, by the students of Carnegie In­stitute of Technology, Pittsburgh. Pa.
Editor-m-Chief ............................................ Robert W. JohnsonBusiness Manager ................................................ Samuel MosesAssociate Editor ................................... Burton L. EpsteinPersonnel Manager .................................. Richard B. Mitchell
News Editor—Robert Kubiak. Sports Editor—Paul Offer- mann, Copy Editor—Bert Kimmel, Makeup Editor—Ralph Painter, Art Editor—Russel F. Kulberg, Features Editor— Frank Roth, Advertising Manager—Arthur G. Zuch, Circu­lation Manager—Lewis S. Sternberg.Proof Editor—John Braun, Asst. Business Manager— Herbert Stone, Personnel Assistant—Ray Mangold, Chief Keporters—Bennard Perlman, Catherine Rudy Joseph Wein- rich, Frances Hamborsky, Lauri Ehni, Chief Sports Re­porter—Bill Dorn, Chief Photographer— Rictiard Deininger. Copy Staff—Hamilton, Bartlett, John Gerum, Analee Gel- man, Mary Cauffield, Robert Cloud, Elizabeth Asche, Ed Muttart, Lloyd Dyer, Features Staff—A. Starke Drischell, Gene Feist. Jack Johnson, Makeup Staff—A1 Bader, Pho­tographer—Leland Green, Howard Misjfill.Reporters—Jo Crisanti, Angela Pollis, Judy Block, Alan Blotcky, Joan Blumenthal, William Lyell Nancy Sitler, Tom Birch. Cub Reporters—Sally Bachman, Hilda Chottiner, Jane Conner, Joyce Ertell, Dorothy Kams, Edward Koos, Patricia Kelly, Sus MacFadden, Dolores Mitchell, Bee Pot­ter, Jane Robb, Anita Tabellini, Joan Williams, Nancy Will, Susan Flood, Sports Staff—Richard Barr, Gerry Conlon, Robert Dougherty, Charles King. Warren Lithgow, Fred Lunt, Art Mensing, John Roslund, Bruce Updike. Business Staff—Morty Baker. Edmund Denburg, Shirlee Goldenfeld, Marjorie Weinsweig, Bud Smith, Bob Pow­ers, Mitch Bakon, Herman P Alexander.Typists—Patti McDermott, Wilma Dickson, Rodda Dean, Shirley Dixon.
Represented for national advertising by NATIONAL AD­VERTISING, Inc.. College Publishers Representative, 420 Madison Ave., New York City. Subscription $1.10 per year.Entered as second class matter on Oct. 4, 1907 at the Post Office at Pittsburgh, Pa., under the Act of March 3, 1879. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage pro­vided for in the Act of February 28, 1925 Authorized Octo­
ber 21, 1918.
Editorials
Into Their Hands
Next year’s Tartan staff, announced elsewhere 
in this issue, is probably the most capable group 
to take over leadership of the newspaper since 
it emerged from the war.
It is comforting to know that there are able 
and willing hands available to take up a job 
that of necessity becomes a labor of love as well 
as a backbreaker. We feel that there has been 
improvement in the paper this year, but we also 
know that there remains room for a great deal 
more.
From our fairly thorough knowledge of the 
upcoming staff we feel confident that there is 
more than sufficient energy, initiative, and ex­
perience there to give Carnegie a paper next 
year that will be a credit to the school, one 
which both the students and staff can be proud of.
It Can Be Done
Too much credit cannot be given to Ted 
Goodson and the members of the Student Coun­
cil social committee who made the Council spon­
sored musicale and dance on April 2 such a 
thumping success.
Wes Kenney, Jim Reynolds, Laura Ehni, Lynn 
Gasehe, and Dorothy Gillan are the other mem­
bers of the committee whose efforts contributed 
so heavily to the entertainment of the big crowd 
that filled the gym.
We may be hitting again a well-worn point, 
but it is still timely to point out that the suc­
cess of that event was the result of cooperative 
effort on the part of both independents and 
Greeks, although Ted Goodson must accept the 
lion’s share of the credit for making the whole 
affair a click. There was no worry about politi­
cal advantages to be gained, but there was a 
sincere desire on the part of all to do a job that 
benefitted all.
The success of the event is proof enough that 
all-school social affairs can be made to click, 
providing enough energy and imagination is de­
voted to selling them to the students. Hats off 
to a hard working gang that did a terrific job!
Define The Basis
The grousing that perennially follows Greek 
Sing competitions shotild be the signal to someone 
that perhaps something is wrong, and that per­
haps something should be done about it.
Even in such an arbitrary decision as to the 
highest quality vocal efforts there should be 
some sound, determinable foundation that will 
make it possible for a majority of the audience 
to agree on who is best, second best, etc., and why.
Such agreed on standards would also 
serve the purpose of letting the competing 
groups know for what sort of perfection to 
aim. They would know what they were be­
ing scored on and could concentrate their 
efforts on rating high in those departments.
Some sort of scoring system, verbalizing the 
critical qualities in any group’s singing, and show­
ing what weight will be given for the exhibi­
tion of those qualities, is certainly a necessity 
if the annual grumbling is to be at all reduced.
It would be in the interest of both Pan- 
Hellenic and Inter-Fraternity councils to look 
into the question and arrive at some system 
which won’t be as full of holes as the present one.
Help The Old Man AlongA Dean By Any 
Other Name - ¦
Finally admitting that the 
rest of the world hasn’t been 
out of step all these years, the 
Executive Board has decided to 
start calling Carnegie’s educa­
tional Directors by the new, 
fancy, and high falutin’ title of 
“Dean.”
Affecting six members of the 
administration, the new nomen­
clature becomes effective imme­
diately, There will be no 
changes in their duties, powers, 
responsibilities, etc. Apparently 
a Dean by any other name . . .
Henceforth students and fac­
ulty alike will address Dr. Web­
ster Newton Jones, B. Kenneth 
Johnstone, Miss Edith Winches­
ter, Glen U. Cleeton, Dr. Ralph 
Munn, and Dr. G. L. Bach as 
“Dean,” rather than the now 
archaic title of “Director.”
However, all other Directors 
will continue to be called by 
that title. The only present 
Deans in the school are Dean of 
Men J. A. Dickinson, Assistant 
Dean of Men Ben E. David, 
Dean of Women Josephine 
Campbell, and Dean of Graduate 
Studies J. C. Warner.
Pink Eye
[The following story by Dick Kovar appeared 
on April 5 in the Pitt News, University Qf Pitts­
burgh student newspaper, following the Com­
munist party rally at the North Side Carnegie 
Hall. Because it gives a soynewhat different im­
pression than was carried in most daily papers 
we feel that its subject matter may be of inter­
est to Carnegie students. However, the Tartan 
and Carnegie Tech do not necessarily endorse 
any particular report of the events covered here­
in.—Ed.]
By Dick Kovar
I was a Communist in Pittsburgh for 30 min­
utes.
That’s no fun—because to several thousand 
people I was a Communist last Saturday night, 
and but for some excusably scared but nonethe­
less determined policeman, I might very well 
have been a dead Communist as far as they 
*were’concerned. And that is as sober a state­
ment as this reporter has ever written.
“The best-laid plans of mice and men.
Gang aft a-gley.”
Well, I’ve got a mouse over my eye that 
ganged pretty far a-gley.
It seemed like a good idea Saturday after­
noon, crashing the Communist Party meeting and 
writing it up in the style of my colleague, Sense- 
Les. I guess I was closer to him than I thought.
As my ghost-writer on the Pittsburgh Press 
revealed, (honest, I didn’t write that story) the 
only obstacle to gate-crashing at Carnegie Hall 
was a fifty-cent piece, or in my case, a dollar, 
since that blonde insisted on going,too.
Inside, the meeting was almost dull. The 
audience, half of whom were white-haired men 
and women sitting in the first four rows, ap­
plauded automatically as Churchill was damned 
and the British were reviled for the burning 
of Washington in 1812.
To be honest, the speeches, while loud, were 
more honest and logical than those delivered at 
the local Wallace rally last year. True, a lot of 
statements seemed one-sided and covered only 
half the question. What opened my eyes was 
that the newspaper accounts of the event were, 
in general, equally one-sided. I have no sym­
pathy for the Communist ideologies, but it is 
clear to me that in the case of distorting and 
omitting relevant information, the press should 
share at least some guilt.
During the two-hour meeting, the shouts of 
the mob outside rose steadily in volume, whipped 
to frenzied hysteria by the speaker in a sound- 
truck parked out front. (If anyone was arrested 
for inciting to riot, that guy should have been 
the first. There would have been no serious riot­
ing if that glorified soap-box speaker hadn’t kept 
mouthing off.) #
Three of us from Pitt got out near the tail- 
end of the 100-odd listeners. The sight outside 
was appalling. The mob had surrounded the 
building and were pressing agafnst a desperate 
line of patrolmen who opened a single-file lane 
for us around the side of the building. After get­
ting kicked, slapped, cursed, and splattered, I
[Continued on page 8]
All Groups Are Represented In 
School Activities, Survey Shows
Tartan Survey Indicates That No Single
Greek Letter Group Dominates Any Activity
Independents and non-independents are almost equally repre­
sented in organizations which derive their funds from Student 
Council, a Tartan survey has shown.
A closer breakdown of the survey shows that no one fraternity 
or sorority dominates any activi-^-----------------
ty, but that sorority women have 
dominant control of the exclus­
ively women’s activities. Indepen­
dents have the edge in varsity 
sports and in activities which 
favor Fine Arts students. Student 
Council itself is split 16-15, with 
the independents holding the ma­
jority.
The grand totals showed 417 
non-independents against 406 in­
dependents active in the organi­
zations polled. Two sororities 
showed the highest representation 
in the activities in the breakdown 
of the non-independent lists. 
Kappa Kappa Gamma has 38 
representative?! and Delta Delta 
Delta has 35.
In the all women’s activities the 
sororities hold an edge of 82 to 
36 and hold a majority in all 
these activities except the Wom­
en’s Glee club in which the non­
independents have a two woman 
majority, 25-23.
Representation on the campus 
publications show non-indepen­
dent majorities on the Tartan, 
Technical, Thistle, and Tri-Publi­
cations while Cano has greater in­
dependent representaion. Totals 
are -37 non-independents, 91 in­
dependents.
Varsity “C” club membership 
shows 58 letters awarded to in­
dependents and 52 letters award­
ed to non-independents since the 
start of the Spring 1948 semester.
Independents almost completely 
make up the entire rifle and ten­
nis teams.
Activities which have a large 
Fine Arts membership show a 
high representation of indepen­
dent students. Statistics on these 
organizations are: Men’s Glee
club 25-23, Scotch and Soda club 
75-66, and Cano 19-14, with in­
dependent totals greater in each 
case.
Other organizations not includ­
ed in the above groupings and 
their representations are Citcom 
Clan (officers only) 11-0, Debate 
Club 11-10, and WCIT 2-8, with 
independent representation listed 
first.
The survey was conducted by 
collecting membership lists and 
checking non-independent status 
from the Alpha Phi Omega direc­
tory. • ; v
Freshmen women are included 
with the independents. No dis­
tinction was made between men 
and women on the “mixed” ac­
tivities.
The organizations polled were 
Student Council, YWCA, Citcom t 
Clan, Debate club, Kiltie Band, 
MMCC Senate, M'en’s Glee Club, 
WCIT, Scotch ’n Soda club, Var­
sity “C” club, Women’s Dorm 
Council, Women’s Glee Club, 
Women’s Guild, Cano, Tartan, 
Technical, Thistle, and Tri-Pub­
lications.
Spring Carnival
[Continued from page 1] ?
ganizations are building new and 
faster buggies in hopes of setting 
a new record in both desigq and 
speed.
Friday afternoon’s program will 
include the crowning of a Carne­
gie Tech lovely as Carnival Queen 
and the float parade. In keeping 
with the circus theme—upon 
which Spring Carnival committee 
is building the entire program— 
all the floats will deal with some 
phase of circus life.
The day’s program will be 
topped off with a half hour -musi­
cale starring Benny Benack and 
his band and the Starlite Hop. This 
dance will be held on the street 
between the Fine Arts building 
and Webb hall.
On Saturday afternoon the push- 
mobile final will be held. Imme­
diately .after the race, all the 
sororities, Citcom Clan, and the 
Women’s Dorm Council will pre­
sent their skits in the Carnegie the­
ater. This feature was added to 
last year’s Carnival program, and 
proved to be so popular that it 
will be included in this year’s car­
nival.
Woody Herman and his band 
will play for the formal dance on 
Saturday night. During the in­
termission, the prizes will be given 
to the pushmobile race and design 
winners, the organization that pro­
duced the winning skit, and the 
organization that entered the finest 
float.

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 27, 1949THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
(/) Every Nite This Week . . .
1 FRANK YANKOVIC
Polka King
------N CfA/A/y 1/rMAMf //
Campus Beauties Compete For Title
Marilyn AUshouse Anne Augustine Doris Becker Gloria Bergman Betty Coble Corey DeChicchis,M. Delli Gatti Helen Finlay Wanda Forsythe Dorothy Kane Betty Lou Kaufman
19 (Count ’em) Fair Maids 
Running For Campus Queen
Nineteen beautiful seniors will be candidates 
for the title of Queen of Spring Carnival in the 
all-school election to be held Friday. Representing 
each of the seven sororities and Tower C of More- 
wood Gardens, the girls will also be competing for 
positions on the Carnival Court.
The seven girls receiving the highest number 
of votes will make up the court and the Queen 
will be the member of the court who receives the 
most votes. However, although the Tartan will an­
nounce the names of the court next week, the 
name of the Queen will be kept secret until cor­
onation on May 13.
Candidates for the court, and the organizations 
they represent, are as follows: Tower C. More- 
wood Gardens: Nancy Zimmerman; Alpha Epsilon 
Phi: Betty Lou Kaufman; Chi Omega: Helen Fin­
lay, Corinne DiChiccis; Delta Delta Delta: Anne
Augustine, Wanda Forsythe, Virginia Rowley; Del­
ta Gamma: Marie Delli Gatti, Jody Nelson, Gloria 
Bergman; Kappa Alpha Theta: Mary Lou Thorpe, 
Marilyn Allshouse, Doris Becker; Kappa Kappa 
Gamma: Dottie Kane, Vera Latchic, Anita Nelson; 
Sigma Kappa: Betty Coble, Betty Lloyd, Theresa 
Vahanian.
Under the supervision of Alpha Phi Omega, the 
election will be held from 11:30 to 1:30. Polling 
places will be in Skibo, Fine Arts, Industries hall, 
and Margaret Morrison. All full-time students in 
the day school may vote but must bring their ac­
tivities cards to have them punched at the polls.
In addition to the honor of being Queen of 
Carnival, the winner of the election will receive 
a 16-week modeling course scholarship in the Vic­
toria Mannequin school of Pittsburgh.
Job Offers At A Premium 
This Year, States Wangeman
Firms Are Trying Only To Fill The Normal
Replacement Needs Of Death And Retirement
“The buyers’ market in jobs is definitely here,” said placement 
director Charles E. Wangeman last week.
Some of the seniors, he believes, do not fully realize that con­
ditions have changed from what they were in the last few years 
and that the firms which are hir- ?----------------------------------------------------
ing are no longer trying to fill the 
war induced holes in their man­
power supplies, but rather are 
trying only to fill the normal re­
placement needs due to death and 
retirement.
“Too many of the seniors,” 
Wangeman explained, “still seem 
to be looking for a position which 
fills their every desire, rather than 
the realistic sorts of jobs that are 
available.”
Fewer Offers
The number of job offers re­
ported to the placement office this 
year is below the number re­
ported at the same time last year, 
Wangeman revealed, and most 
firms are continuing to move very 
slowly in making offers.
“They no longer have to worry 
about large shortages of men, so 
they can afford to be particular 
about the men they select,” he 
said.
According to Wangeman the 
changed conditions call for much 
more intensive work on the part 
of job-seekers to show prospec­
tive employers that they will 
make valuable additions to their 
staffs.
“Many students are too con­
cerned with grades when they talk 
to interviewers. Those with high 
grades think that they speak for 
themselves, and those with low 
grades are ashamed of them.
“But the important thing is not 
the grade, but what the man 
learned from the course. If he
can show that he got something 
out of a course, he’s taken the 
first step in selling himself to an 
interviewer.”
Facilities Neglected
Both Wangeman and his assist­
ant, Mr. Robert Savin, were con­
cerned that men in some de­
partments were apparently not 
using the facilities of the place­
ment office to the fullest extent.
Savin pointed out that the men 
in one department have left va­
cant some of the spaces allotted 
them on 23 interview lists this 
spring.
By way of contrast he pointed 
to engineers in another depart­
ment, who have “haunted” the 
Placement office, using every 
means available to get help in ob­
taining jobs.
Wangeman and Savin stressed 
that they wanted to give every 
possible aid to the job-seeking 
seniors, but that they “can’t help 
the men unless they come in and 
take advantage of what has been 
done to get them started out right.
Scottie Refunds
Students who have filed re­
quests for refunds on Scottie 
subscriptions may pick up their 
refunds at the Dean of Men’s 
office after Friday, April 29. All 
refunds must be cleared up be­
fore Tuesday, May 10.
CIT Debater 
Wins In Contest
Joseph Schuchert, Carnegie de­
bater, entered the Grand National 
Extempora Speaking contest at 
Mary Washington college and was 
awarded two certificates in the 
semi-finals and second place in the 
finals by a 3-2 judges’ decision. 
Competition was nation-wide.
Schuchert was among the C.I.T. 
debaters attending the Grand Na­
tional Debate tournament on April
ATIantic 3734
Joseph Schuchert
14, 15, and 16. Carnegie entries 
Were listed amoiag the outstanding 
participants of the tournament in 
which colleges from all over the 
country were entered.
Other debaters attending the 
three day program in Fredricks- 
burg, Virginia, were Joseph Mc- 
Candless, Emerson Pugh, Robert 
McKelvey, and Mr. Erwin Stein­
berg, faculty advisor.
Teams debating C.I.T. at Mary 
Washington College were Mount 
Mercy, Pennsylvania; George 
Washington University, Washing­
ton, D. C.; University of Florida, 
Florida; University of Virginia, 
Virginia; Mars Hill College, North 
Carolina; McCook College, Ne­
braska; and Trinity College, San
Vera Latchic Betty Lloyd
Anita Nelson Jo Anne Nelson
Virginia Rowley Mary Thorpe
Theresa Vahanian Nan Zimmerman
New Technical 
Features Story 
On Relativity
The April issue of the Carnegie 
Technical which goes on sale to­
day features “The Social Impacts 
of Relativity” by Richard Dris- 
ko. Drisko shows that the system 
of reasoning which led Einstein 
to his now famous thaory has ex­
erted a profound influence in 
psychology, physiology, and many 
other branches of the physical 
and social sciences.
For those who desire to know 
a little more of the details of the 
theory of relativity, William H. 
Warner’s article, “Relativistic Me­
chanics,” gives an elementary 
presentation of some of the ma­
jor points of the theory.
Passing on the less abstract sub­
jects, the next two articles cover 
the important phases of American 
military preparedness. “The Sky 
Was the Limit” by Donald C. 
Woods is a discussion of the pres­
ent situation in the rocket field, 
with special emphasis on the im­
portant problem of rocket fuels.
Since rockets and other weap­
ons cannot be built without raw 
materials, Jack Seward’s article 
“Strategic Materials’ gives a sur­
vey of our present supplies and 
possible future sources of three 
highly important metals — iron, 
manganese, and copper.
For the non-engineering stu­
dents there is “Synthesis of Util­
ity and Appeal,” which deals with 
problems of artistic design.
Seniors Only
Three Commencement tickets 
will be issued to each graduat­
ing student between May 24 
and June' 1. Students are re­
quested to take only as many 
tickets as they need. Applica­
tions for additional tickets can 
be made in the Registrar’s of­
fice on June 2 and 3.
Following is the schedule for 
the Commencement program: 
June 14—Senior dance, Schenley 
hotel.
June 15—President’s reception.
Baccalaureate, Carne­
gie Music hall, 8 p. m. 
June 16—Commencement, Syria 
Mosque, 10 a. m.
.Jefferson Club 
Starts New Series
Of Discussions
The Jefferson club at the First 
Unitarian church, Ellsworth and 
Morewood avenues, began, on 
April 10, a series of Sunday even­
ing programs on the theme, “In 
Search of Maturity (A Practical 
Study of Psychology and Effici­
ent Living).”
Sue Flood, Jefferson Club sec­
retary, announces that outstand­
ing psychologists from Pittsburgh 
campuses will discuss the topics.
Speakers will include Mr. 
George Albee, Mr. Riley Pattotl, 
Dr. Fred Wenniger, Dr. Geneva 
Kenway, and Dr. Maurice P. 
Schulte. The series continues 
through May 8. All CIT students 
are cordially invited to attend.

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, APRIL 27, 1949
He Keeps So Busy
This Boy Welch Does 
A Bit Of Everything
Aspiring Editors
All students with ideas or 
suggestions concerning the es­
tablishment of a campus variety 
magazine are invited to attend 
a meeting for that purpose at 
the Carnegie Union, Room D, 
tomorrow at 4:30.
John K. Fockler, 
Publications Chairman.
By A. Starke Drischell
By 1938 vaudeville was gasping its last. In the East it was 
gone. In the West it was gone. In the Middle West it was still going. 
And while it fought to survive through those last years, one of 
our Tech students was touring the RKO summer circuit through 
Missouri, Iowa, and Kansas at the age of thirteen.
Kenny Welch is his name, and 
at that time he was already a 
young man with years of experi­
ence behind him. He began at the 
age of five studying the piano, 
switched after two years to the 
accordian because his fingers and 
hands were too small, and at the 
: age of eight was playing the ac- 
! cordian on a radio show in his 
home town of Kansas City.
Carnegie Students 
Win GE Awards
James E. Zimmerman of Philip, 
South Dakota, and Vernon H. 
Neubert, Cabot, Pa., are among 
fifteen winners of research fellow­
ships totaling $18,460 awarded by 
the General Electric company un­
der the GE Education fund. An­
nouncement of awards was made 
last week by A. D. Marshay, sec­
retary of the company.
Under the Gerard Swope fel­
lowship, Zimmerman received a 
$1500 grant, and Neubert a $1200 
grant. Neubert was presented the 
outstanding senior engineer award 
at CIT last spring.
Both students will study at Car­
negie Institute of Technology.
Dormicon Writes Constitution, 
Elects John Fondrk Chairman
And a Refreshing Pause 
Helps You Get There, Too
Carnegie-Illinois Steel Co., will 
speak to the group about “Oppor­
tunities and Pitfalls” in industry.
Pledges Initiated
The pledges to be initiated in­
clude: David McKinley, Robert
Carr, Aubrey Mickelwait, Ray 
Bloom, Sylvester Ulicny, Ralph 
Weaver, George Miller, Robert 
McKelvey, Bruce Barrow, Richard 
Di Prima, Walter Gall, Robert 
Rung, Mary Bacon, Howard Can­
non, James Horsch, Charles Koes- 
ter, Robert Haberstroh, William 
Warner, Albert Kimmel, Metro 
Spewock, Frank Witt, and William 
Clark.
Mr. Cox, who became president 
of Carnegie-Illinois in 1946 after 
heading the National Tube Com­
pany, was born in Schenectady. 
A graduate of New York univer­
sity, he started his business career 
in 1914 with a New York firm of 
chartered accountants. He moved 
from there to the United States 
Shipping Board Emergency Fleet 
Corporation, and, in 1920, came to 
Pittsburgh with the Crucible Steel 
Company of America.
Rapid Advancement
After joining National Tube in 
1934, he moved rapidly up the 
line to become president of that 
company nine years later. It was 
under his immediate direction that 
tremendous quantities of large size 
seamless pipe for both the “Big 
Inch” and “Little Big Inch” petro­
leum pipe lines were produced in 
record time.
1FRANF 1FRA N1KYROKV RI KYC TRTNaTRnN covtany tV
KYKOVKYIO 1YCCITan KYt YR iOtc iTCC3174nEc iOt
M SG¿L c CBU K .FFVKF8F KN20FAo
Special Price
Students and faculty of Car­
negie Tech are offered a special 
10% reduction of standard 
transient rates at the Hotel Em­
pire, Broadway at 63rd St.. New 
York. They need only show 
their Carnegie identification card 
when registering to avail them­
selves of this reduction. Further 
information about the Hotel 
Empire is available in the Pub­
lic Relations Office, IH 246.
Ken Welch
4Of All Things’ 
Features Music 
Bv Ken Welch
Ken Welch, Carnegie Tech dra­
ma student, has supplied most of 
the music and lyrics that will be 
used in “Of All Things'”, the new 
musical revue scheduled to open 
at the Playhouse on Saturday 
night.
Welch is remembered for the 
music and lyrics he wrote for 
“Rock ’n Riot,” Scotch and Soda 
club’s production two years ago 
Sketches used in the colorful 
musical are partially the work of 
David Crantz and Ernest Motly, 
both Carnegie alumni. Other Car­
negie Teen students in tiie cast 
include Collette Crawford, Rob­
ert Parks, William Leech, and 
George Fieldman
Under the personal direction or 
Frederick Buieigr., with dances 
and musical numbers staged by 
Frank Wagner, and settings by 
James Trittipo, “Of All Things!” 
has the opportunity to follow in 
the footsteps of the Playhouse 
revue “Lend An Ear,” a current 
hit on Broadway.
His Own Program
Two years later he joined an 
accordian quartette, and by the 
time he started high school he had 
his own program.
He’s a musician: he can play 
piano, accordian, clarinet, violin, 
viola, cello, and timpani. He’s an 
artist: studied are in high school 
and won a scholarship to Tech in 
1943 to the P&D department. And 
now he’s a junior in the drama 
department majoring in produc­
tion and playwriting.
Studied Engineering
Furthermore, engineers will be 
interested to know that he studied 
Naval Engineering while in the 
service, applied his training 
aboard the U.S.S. Catoctin, the 
Commander of the amphibious 
forces in the Atlantic. And all that 
is from a boy who is now only 
twenty-three years old.
He wants to be a playwright, 
has six compete musicales to his 
credit, and right now the Pitts­
burgh Playhouse is about to pro­
duce “Of All Things.” a musical 
review which opens on April 30. 
Kenny wrote music and lyrics for 
it.
Likes To Sleep
Modest, unassuming, the kind of 
fellow people are drawn to, Ken­
ny promises to be one of the peo­
ple to wratch in the future—if he 
can overcome one problem.
When Welch sleeps an earth­
quake cannot w,ake him—let alone 
a puny little alarm clock. But he’s 
working on the problem, “Depen­
dable Welch,” he has predicted of 
himself. Time w'ill tell.
Awards Won 
By Two Seniors
Stelson And Grace 
To Get $1200 Each
Two of six graduate fellowships 
awarded annually by Tau Beta 
Pi. national engineering honor 
society, have been won by CIT 
seniors.
The awards, worth $1,200 each, 
were given to Thomas E. Stelson. 
civil engineer, and John N. Grace, 
electrical engineer. Both prize 
winners will use their fellowships 
in graduate work at Carnegie 
next year.
Stelson, who was recently list­
ed on the honor roll for the sev­
enth consecutive semester, is the 
son of a Michigan State College 
mathematics professor. Grace, a 
married veteran and father, won 
an all-expense-paid trip to Mex­
ico City last year for a paper he 
wrote on brain-waves for the 
American Institute of Electrical 
Engineers.
Announcement of the Tau Beta 
Pi prize winners marked the sec­
ond year that a Carnegie civil en­
gineering student has been hon­
ored by the society. Last year 
Vernon H. Neubert, now a grad­
uate student at Tech. won one of 
the fellowships.
Applications For 
Delta Skull Due
Delta Skull, junior men’s activ­
ities honorary, will make its an­
nual call on May 17. Applications 
for membership in the honorary 
are available now to second se­
mester sophomores in the Dean 
of Men’s office. These must be 
completed and returned to that 
office by May 4.
Questions concerning the or- 
' ganization, application blanks and 
i point allotments will be answer- 
j ed by the president, Ames Pen- 
j field, who may be reached at SC 
1 9846.
Bruce B. Barrow Gets 
Engineering Award
Bruce B. Barrow, electrical en­
gineering junior, has been pre- 
j sented with the Eshbach Award 
for this year.
This award is given annually 
j to the man in the Electrical En­
gineering department who has 
maintained the highest factor for 
j his first four semesters, at CIT.
Tau Beta Pi 
To Initiate 22*
New Members
One Girl Called; Cox 
Of Carriegie-Illinois 
Speaker At Banquet
Tau Beta Pi will initiate twen­
ty-two pledges preceding its spring 
banquet at the Church of the Re­
deemer on May 3. Among the 
pledges is one woman, Mary Ba­
con.
Charles R. Cox, president of
Executive Committee 
Of Eleven Established
Dormicom members, acting for 
the first time under the provisions 
of a new constitution, elected 
John Fondrk as general chair­
man on Thursday, April 8. Oth­
ers elected to office were: 
Sedgwick, action chairman; 
Horsch, contact cnairman; Ted 
Goodson, election chairman; Jo 
Crisanti, secretary; and 
Engle, treasurer.
Fondrk, a junior physics major, 
is also active in Student Council 
and the Dorm Bagpiper. He 
pilot Dormicom in its initial at­
tempt to become a permanent 
ganization run by well defined 
rules.
Constitution Adopted
Shortly after his election 
Fondrk announced that a new 
constitution was adopted by 
Dormicom just before Easter Va­
cation. He said that it would be 
submitted to Student Council for 
approval as soon as the oppor­
tunity presents itself.
As stated in the Qrpamble of 
the constitution one the pur­
poses of Dormicom is, “To further 
the liberal interests of the ma­
jority of the student body . . .” 
To Use Hare System 
It also provides an eleven man 
executive committee headed by 
Fondrk which will make all de­
cisions on policy and planning. 
Those elected to the executive 
committee were. Gerry Meyers, 
Paul Hanna, John Engle, Pete 
McNutt, Lynn Gasche, Henry 
Clay, Pete Winters, Robert Horsch, 
Wes Kenney, and Judy Garb. The 
new slate of officers will serve 
until the next Dormicom election, 
which will be held two weeks 
after the next Student Council 
election. x
This constitution provides for 
all Dormicom elections to be de­
cided by the Hare system of 
counting ballots. It makes no def­
inite restrictions to membership,
Guild Sells Tags 
To Raise Funds 
For Scholarships
Today, April 27, is Tag Day for 
Women’s Guild. The drive, a bi­
annual one, is for the purpose of 
raising funds for women’s schol­
arships.
Guild members will be solicit­
ing over the entire campus 
throughout the day, more partic­
ularly during lunch hours in Ski- 
bo and Margaret Morrison.
Ruth Jones is chairman of the 
Tag Day at which the goal is $100 
Js hoped to be surpassed. Student 
and faculty support alike- is urg­
ed for this worthp purpose. In­
formation about the scholarship 
will be announced soon.
John Fondrk* * *
but states that, “initiation into the 
organization shall consist of the 
recommendation of the member­
ship committee and a majority 
vote of the members of the organ­
ization present at a general meet­
ing.”

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 27, 1949 THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
Bert Pollock’s Original Play 
On Kentucky Mountain Opens
Bert Pollock’s new play, 
“Across Big Mountains,” opened 
last night in the Little Theater. 
The lead part of Judge Amburgy 
is being shared by William Ross, 
drama senior, and Robert Reyn­
olds, another senior, whose last 
part was in “619. Portrait of a 
Polish Family.”
Ray Tudor, drama sophomore, 
who is a native of Hindman, Ken- 
tncky, the locale of the play, is 
acting the role of Jethro Pigman. 
Pollock, a graduate in the dramti 
department, got the ideas for his 
play on a visit to a friend in Ken­
tucky. The play is a human story 
about a local judge who con­
demns an innocent man to save 
his own son and then seeks for­
giveness by establishing a school.
As told by Pollock, whose first 
script, “Steps of Sand,” was play­
ed in the Carnegie theater last 
year, the judge’s story is strong, 
romantic, and often hilarious. Its 
authentic quality was gained 
through long periods of field and
library research.
The author has pulled the local 
speech, songs, and dances from 
the Smokies to Pittsburgh for 
“Across Big Mountain,” and has 
used them effectively as a back­
ground for his story.
The play is being directed by 
Henry Boettcher, head of the Car­
negie drama department, and the 
set designed by William Ryan, 
senior who did the set for this 
year’s “Midsummer Night’s 
Dream,” and for the Playhouse’s 
1948 musical hit, “Girl from Wy­
oming.’
Newman Club To Elect 
New Officers Tomorrow
A meeting for* the purpose of 
ratifying a constitution and nom-' 
inating and electing officers will 
be held by the Carnegie Tech 
chapter of the Newman club on 
Thursday, April 28, in EH 122 at 
4:30. All Catholic students are 
invited to attend.
Kilties Present 
Annual Concert 
Tomorrow Night
Kiltie Band director William A. 
Schaefer will lead the symphonic 
band in its second annual Spring 
Concert tomorrow night in the 
Carnegie Music hall. Tickets are 
available at the door, at 75 
cents for adults and 50 cents for 
high school students.
The program will open with 
Scottish airs played by the eight 
Kiltie pipers as they march down 
the aisles in full regalia in the 
Procession of Pipers. Then the 90 
piece band will swing into a var­
ied program of both classical and 
modern music. Dressed in their 
kilts, sporrans, spats, knee socks, 
tux coats, and bow ties, the band 
members will keep the atmo­
sphere that usually surronnds the 
appearances of the band.
Included in the program will 
be “Siegfried’s Rhine Journey” by 
Wagner, “Paxane” by Morton 
Gould, “Folk Songs Suite” by R. 
Vaughn Williams, and “Finale 
from Symphony V” by Shostako­
vich.
Student Council Plans
Election For May 24
Bylaws Move Another Step Toward Approval; 
Sinclair Reports Profit On April 2 Musicale
Setting May 24 as the date for its next elections, Council gave 
prospective candidates the signal to start forging thdfr campaigns 
for the race for sixteen Council seats.
Further advances were made last Wednesday in the preparation
Submit Budgets
Organizational budgets for the 
year 1949-50 for all organiza­
tions under Student Council 
jurisdiction must be submitted 
to the Budget Chairman through 
the «ffice of the Dean of Men on 
or before May 5.
Forms are available in the 
Dean of Men’s office.
Robert Sinclair, 
Budget Chairman,
- Student Council.
of the by-laws by giving tenta­
tive approval to parts pertaining 
to election procedure and the set­
up of a publications board. Pre­
liminary action was taken on Jack 
Johnson’s plan for class organi­
zation, while budget committee 
chairman Sinclair reported that 
the Council sponsored music fes­
tival and dance netted $95.25 
profit.
Election Set
Though first suggested that the 
election date be May 17, the 24th 
was finally agreed upon to allow 
the candidates an extra week for 
campaigning. As has been the 
case in the past, APO will tabu­
late the ballots. Ten candidates 
will be elected from the College 
of Engineering, three from Mar­
garet Morrison, and three from 
Fine Arts.
The main change in the propos­
ed by-laws concerning election 
procedure was made on the Coun­
cil floor. Sparkplugged by Coun­
cilman Siegel, the change states 
that 40 separate signatures will be 
required on each candidate’s pe­
tition, but that those signatures 
may also appear on another can­
didate’s petition.
Currently, only 25 signatures 
are required but no signature 
may appear on two petitions. 
Dual purpose behind the new plan 
is that since students can vote for 
more than one candidate, they 
should also be allowed to help 
nominate more than one, and, as 
Eiegel commented, “This plan will 
also save much time in checking 
the petitions against duplicate of 
names.”
Classes Organized
Councilman Fondrk moved that 
a committee be apointed to formu­
late plans for organizing under­
graduate class activities and to 
plan class elections for next fall. 
President Ryan said that he would 
appoint a special committee this 
week to start work on the mat­
ter.
Plans presented by John Fock- 
ler for the plblications board 
were approved by a majority but 
not by the two-thirds required 
for inclusion in the bylaws. All 
changes in the bylaws, although 
they have been tentatively ap­
proved by a two-thirds vote when 
the bylaws come up for final rati­
fication in their entirety.
Sally Hutchinson reported for 
points and keys chairman Dave 
Sapper that 79 keys will be 
awarded this year at a total cost 
of $319.
CIT AIGA Chapter 
Shows “50 Books” 
At Library Here
Carnegie Library will display 
the annual exhibition of “The 
Fifty Books of the Year,” selected 
by an American Institute of 
Graphic" Arts committee headed 
by Bennett Cerf, from April 25 
through May 14.
Brought to Pittsburgh by the 
Carnegie Tech A.I.G.A. student 
chapter, the exhibition will be 
open daily, except Sunday,- from 
9 a. m. to 9 p. m. There will be 
admission charge.
The fifty books, chosen from 
over 700 titles, represents a se­
lection of outstanding work in 
American and Canadian book de­
sign and manufacture during 
1947.
The jury of three experts who 
selected this wide variety of 
books included Edgar Kaufmann, 
Jr., Director of the Museum of 
Modern Art Department of In­
dustrial Design; George Salter, a 
designer; and Lewis F. White, a 
printer.
Luckies9 fine tobacco picks you op when you’re 
low ... calms you down when you’re tense—puts
you on the Lucky level! That’s why it’s so important 
to remember that Anal- schole teifr pofe ugSiaag
—¦mild, ripe, light tobacco. No wonder more indepen­
dent tobacco experts—auctioneers, buyers and ware­
housemen—smoke Luckies regularly than the next two 
leading brands combined! Get a carton of Luckies today!
¿.S./Af.F.T —ladky Sti/Âe Mean* fine Ibóaccc
3F RFeArc DF '8R2c DF 'e<<o 0W.BNr DF 'RNN WAr NWDo •A CYHKKY

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, APRIL 27, 19«
Tartan Gridders Tie Pitt jV, 6-6
Paul Offermann’s
§pori§rope
Carnegie Receives 
Bid To Western 
Basketball Group
Clarence (Baddy) Overend, Carnegie’s athletic director re­
ceived an informal “invite” to join the National Association of 
Intercollegiate Basketball last Sunday. It came from E. S. Lis­
ton of Baldwin, Kansas, a guest at the annual meeting of the 
‘‘Tri-State Association For The Selection Of Athletic Officials” 
at Carnegie Union.
The most notable contribution of the NAIB to the game of 
basketball has been tjie annual tournament it sponsors at Kansas 
City each March, more or less in competition with the National 
Invitation in New York.
Mr. Overend shook his head when he was informed that the 
tourney took five days to run off. “With travelling time and 
elimination contests added on to the five days,” Overend com­
mented, “where would our players ever be able to find the 
time to take a week or more off from school?”
With Waynesburg being the only notable district school hold­
ing membership in the NAIB, it has been no secret that the west­
ern outfit has found tough sledding in the east on their member­
ship drive. The main reason for this has been that up until a 
fewr years back, NAIB was merely a “front” for the Kansas City 
Chamber of Commerce—purely a commercial venture.
Lately, however, they have been endorsing a plan for the 
uniformity of basketball rules throughout the country. This 
gained momentum of popularity among the coaches until they 
passed a few rules a:t their annual meeting two months ago to 
make a pass at uniformity. The most notable was the standardi­
zation of backboards so that next season all schools must in­
stall glass boards.
According to Mr. Overend, glass boards will be nothing new' 
at Carnegie. The Tartans were one of the first teams to ever use 
the glass banks—away back when they were playing in what is 
now the Carnegie Inn.* * *
Faculty Participation???? — The interest that has been 
shown in intramural softball by the faeulty this spring may be 
a sign that Intramural Director Dave See’s dream is coming 
true.
Although he never had the time to openly promote the idea, 
Mr. See has been hoping for some time now that both the full­
time and part-time faculty at Carnegie would take advantage of 
the intramural program. “I would venture to say that half of 
the present faculty at Carnegie have never been inside the gym­
nasium,” he pointed out.
There would be several excellent results if faeulty members 
would discard the books for a couple of hours a week and get 
in on the intramural program. “One of these benefits,” Mr. 
See pointed out, “w^ould be the better relations between in­
structor and student.
Another very important one here at Carnegie would be the 
better understanding of the over-all athletic program of the 
school—both the good and bad points.”
All other schools having intramural programs the size of 
Carnegie’s are well-manned writh organized faculty teams in all 
sports. A good example of the proportions that such a project 
can reach is the University of California where teams from the 
various departments compete in almost every sport.,
UNDERWOOD
>845"
Hut F»d. f icis*To* *5.07
TERMS ARRANGIO
The complete personal typewriter . . . with inbuilt tabulator and many other features that make the “Champion” a truly modem portable. Finished in soft French-gray and 
chromium. Smart cairying case included.
Fort Pitt Typewriter Co.
¿44 LIBERTY AVENUE 
AT. 8320
Soccer Race 
Tightens As 
Finish Nears
Stanley Steamers And 
Kappa Sigma Lead; 
Dejean Kicks 7 Goals
In the intramural soccer com­
petition, the Stanley Steamers 
pace the National league with 
three victories, while Kappa Sig­
ma leads in the American league 
with two wins.
Emanon closely trails the Stan­
ley Steamers with two wins and 
Citcom is behind Kappa Sigma 
with two victories and one loss.
High scorer to date has been 
DeJean, Stanley Steamers, who 
has racked up seven goals, in­
cluding four in one game against 
the Betas. His nearest competi­
tors in the National League are 
Matsey, Emanon, who has boot­
ed three goals and Hass, Betas, 
with three against the Tau Delts.
In the American league, which 
has played fewer games, leading 
scorers are* Hood, Kappa Sigma, 
with three goals, Wettach and 
Shaw, Citcom, with a goal per 
game average, and Sapper, PiKA, 
who booted two against Sigma 
Nu.
The championship playoff be­
tween the leader of each league 
will be held Wednesday, May 4.
At the end of the season man­
agers of each team will pick an 
all-intramural soccer team.
Soccer Schedule
Wednesday, April 27—4:30—Emanon vs. Tau Delta, DU vs. TX, Phi Kaps vs. Citcom. 6:00—Kappa Sigs vs. PiKA, Betas vs. Stanley Steamers, Delts vs. ATO.Thursday—Reserved for postponed games.Friday—4:30—Phi Kaps vs. PiKA, Citcom vs. Sigma Nu, Tau Delts vs. TX.Monday—6:00—Betas vs. DU.Tuesday—4:30—Kappa Sigs vs. ATO. 6:00—Delts vs. Phi Kaps.Wednesday, May 4—Championship playoff.
Soccer
Stanley Steamers 51 Stanley Steamers 4| Emanon 2|Emanon 3|Citcom 2 jStanley Steamers 3| Kappa Sigma 4| Sigma Nu 3|Kappa Sigma 3j Citcom 3]Delta Tau Delta 1| Beta Theta Pi 4|
Results
Tau Delta Phi Beta Theta Pi Theta Xi Beta Theta Pi Alpha Tau Omega Delta Upsilon t CitcomPi Kappa Alpha Phi Kappa Pi Kappa Alpha Sigma Nu Tau Delta Phi
Soccer Standings
AmericanLeagueNational LeagueWLWLKappa Sigma 20Stanley Stmrs 30DTD10Emanon 20Citcom21Beta Theta Pi 12Sigma Nu11Theta Xi 01Phi Kappa01Delta Upsilon 01ATO01Tau Delta Phi 02
PiKA02
RODGERS 
DAIRY
Try Our
HAMBURGERS
Made with 100% Pure Beef 
U. S. Government Inspected 
•
IO4nP HTIf 3EOfP3
Made With 
PURE WHOLE MILK
RODGER'S
DAIRY STORES
3905 FORBES STREET Near Bouquet
4619 CENTER AVENUE Near Craig
Carnegie Marches 60 
Yards To Touchdown
Plaid Loses Scoring Punch After 
First Tally; Fast Backs Impressive
Carnegie Tech’s rejuvenated Tartans opened their brief spring 
campaign last Thursday with a 6-6 deadlock against the Univer­
sity of Pittsburgh junior varsity at the Tech Bowl.
Another contest, originally scheduled for last Saturday with
Case Defeats 
CIT, 90-32, 
In Track Meet
Carnegie Tech trackmen were 
defeated by Case, 90 to 32, last 
Saturday in a dual meet held at 
Cleveland. Of the fourteen sched­
uled events, the Tartans managed 
to cop one first place; Ernie Cass- 
ler won the 220-yard dash with 
a time of :23.5.
The Carnegie thinclads were 
especially weak in the field com­
petition, capturing only one sec­
ond and two third places in the 
five events. The Tartans were 
completely blanked in the low 
hurdles, pole vault and broad 
jump events.
Owing to the wet condition of 
the track the times of the running 
events were slow. Cassler failed 
to score in the 100-yard dash, but 
McKibbon saved three points for 
CIT by placing second in the 
event.
Hammond came in second in 
the high hurdles but did not place 
at all in the low hurdle race.
McKibbon, who placed second 
in both the 100 and 220-yard 
dashes, headed the scoring for the 
Tartans with six points.
Summary:
Cooper
Dor-
Mile Run—Schellhardt (C);(T); Alberts (T). Time—4:54.9.880 Yard Run—Churchill (C); man (T). Time—2:04.7.440 Yard Dash—Smith (C); Dean (C); Price (T). Time—:54.9.220 Yard Dash—Cassler (T); McKib­bon (T); Ganyard (C). Time—:23.5.100 Yard Dash—Webb (C); McKibbon (T); Ganyard (C). Time—:10.5.120 Yard High Hurdles—Henry (C); Hammond XT); Debreceni' (C). Time— :15.5.220 Yard Low Hurdles—Henry (C); Debreceni (C); Barrett (C). Time—:27.Two Mile Run—Koch (C); McElhaney (T); Cockrell (T). Time—11:10.5.Mile Relay—Case (Smith, Dean Shall- hard, Churchill. Time—3:40.6.Pole Vault—Harbrook (C); Ganyard (C); Henry (C). Height—‘10 feet.Shot Put—Kerslake (C); Kistler (T); Donnelly (C). Distance—43 ft. 2 in.Discus—Martin (C); Kerslake (C); Kistler (T). Distance—109 ft. 4 in.High Jump—Reed and Schapsmeir (C); Hammond (T). Height—5 ft. 2 in.Broad Jump—Moyer (C); Fanger (C); Webb (C). Distance—17 ft.
Phi Kaps Win 
Foul Shooting
Emanon Stops TX’s 
For Table Tennis Title
Bianchi and King led the Phi 
Kapps A team to the Intramural 
foul shooting title in the finals 
held March 31. The Phi Kaps took 
first place honors in the five-team 
finals with 402 points out of 500 
followed by Emanon’s 383. Kappa 
Sigs 363, Beta Theta Pi’s 333, and 
TX’s 332 respectively.
Emanon, which took second in 
the foul shooting, copped the table 
tennis championship in a hotly 
contested bout with the TX’s Mun- 
sell and Curtis took single sets for 
Emanon while Lee and Ambrose 
won their sets for the TX. Mun- 
sell and Holmes of Emanon broke 
the tie and took the title by win­
ning their set of doubles.
Emanon by placing high in these 
two events, strengthened its lead 
in the All-points Trophy.
West Virginia’s Mountaineers, was 
cancelled because of wet grounds. 
A third scrimmage with Duquesne 
was tentatively scheduled for yes­
terday.
The spring practice season will 
be closed out with a scrimmage 
against St. Vincent here on Wed­
nesday, May 4.
Coach Eddie Baker elected to 
start the Pitt contest with Fred 
Wilson and Lou Fougere at the 
ends, Gerry Meyers and Norm 
Keats at tackles, Floyd Wiseman 
and Larry Stovicek at the guard 
posts, and Jim Trautman at cen­
ter. Bobby Sommers, Nick Simcie, 
Johnny. Luchok, and Arne Oberg 
compose the backfield.
' Only four of the starters, Mey­
ers, Keats, Trautman, and Som­
mers, will be seniors when the 
season offiicially opens next fall.
Satisfying Results
The new Tartan coach unleash­
ed his split-T formation on the 
single wingback minded Panthers 
with satisfying »results. On their 
first drive the Plaid marched sixty 
yards to a touchdown with Som­
mers tossing a flick pass to Wilson 
who then lateraled to Simcic for 
the score. A poor snapback from 
center allowed the Pittmen to 
block Wes Kennedy’s attempted 
placement.
Although their attack opened 
wide holes in the Panther line at 
midfield, the Scots had trouble 
finding their scoring punch after 
the first tally.
Time and again the Plaid grid­
ders pushed to the ten yard line 
only to have their drive wilt with 
pay dirt in sight.
Pitt Tightens
Eddie Minnich scampered 40 
yards around left end on a dou­
ble reverse early in the game to 
put his teammates deep in Pitt 
territory, but the Blue and Gold 
tightened their defense and took 
over on downs four plays later.
In another attempt Dr. Baker 
inserted Sommers at quarterback 
after the Carnegie second team 
had gained possession on the Pitt 
five and had failed to move the 
ball on three tries. The veteran 
signal caller sliced off right end on 
a bootleg play, but was met at the 
line of scrimmage by a host of en­
emy tacklers.
Limited Practice
The Scots, however, seemed well 
adjusted to their new system of 
play despite the limited amount of 
practice available to them thui 
far.
A wealth of fast backs, headed 
by Luchnok, Minnich, and Augie 
DeGiovanni, coupled with the 
power and deception inherent in 
the new formation promises to 
give opposing defenses more than 
a litle trouble next autumn.
Winning Season
Carnegie will open its season 
against Bethany in a contest art 
the West Virginia town and then 
returns for one of its few home 
games against St. Francis the fol­
lowing week. Only other encoun­
ters scheduled for Forbes Field are 
the homecoming meeting with Le­
high and the Grove City clash. #
From all indications the Plaid 
looks destined to quit their losing 
ways this year and perhaps pro­
vide local fans with their first 
winning season since before the 
war.

---------------------------------------------------

Whose shorts always
SaWed htm in two,
Â clever fnaj/'oian namedBfoô,
'Arrow's no-center- seamJhard his better half scream
Means nweft greater comfort 
¿¦/or/oof*
T' oFeR DhFRvD WRN vhN DWuVvFFvh (WR8Nvo FR vhN .RNN08Al 
TAr8WA (FR8NvosDu8v.h vF ORRFu DhFRvy WAr oFe uFAwv hW(N 
FAN Dke8R2 0NR vNR2!
ORRFu DhFRvD .F2N 8A uh8vNc DF<8r .F<FRDc WAr DvR80ND u8vh 
lR800NR 'WDvNANRD WAr vhN )3WA'FR8-Nr) <W—N<t
No chafing 
center seam
< UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS 
VASV.V.VAV^V.V.V.V.V.W.SV.V.'.VV.V/.V.V.'.VAÍ
SPORTS SHIRTS
i MOW WE S~ pgCCO d7Hi 
.TW'Nrr/
> MY60SH.
> PÄßDMEßf 
X NOWW£'i?E
INTCOU8LE-, 
W€YÆM TVOL.42——No
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 27, 1949THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
Softball Season Opens With 
TNT Seeking Title Again
Faculty Team Enters 
League For First Time
A late start, necessitated by the 
inclement weather which has 
plagued the soccer season, has 
brought twilight softball into the 
Carnegie Tech intramural pro­
gram.
The current season, which got 
under way on Monday, will be 
stepped up to eight games a day 
by next week in an effort to com­
plete the schedule before the end 
of May.
TNT’s defending champions 
opened their season yesterday 
against Citcom “A” and will 
the SAE’s tomorrow. The Grin- 
goes, league winners of 1948, take 
on the Slippers on Wednesday in 
seach of another title.
The newest addition to the 
tramural program, the Faculty 
Bulldogs, will make their initial 
appearance against the Freshman 
Architects on Thursday.
All twenty-six entries will be­
gin action next week when the 
soccer season is completed.
Softball Schedule
Wednesday, April 27—4:30—Beta Sigs vs. Dramats, Gringoes vs. Clippers.Thursday—4:30—TNT vs. SAE, Facul­ty vs. SAE, Faculty vs. Fresh. Arch.Friday—4:30—Sigma Nu P vs. Kappa Sigs, Gringoes vs. 49ers.Monday—4:30—PiKA vs. Phi Kaps, Clippers vs. Tau Delts, ATO vs. Grad Physicists—6:00—Delts vs. Faculty, Betas vs. Stanley Steamers, Gringoes vs. Phi Kaps.Tuesday—4:30—Fresh. Arch. vs. Dra­mats, 49ers vs. Tau Delts, Emanon vs. Beta Sigs, TX vs. TNT—6:00—Clippers vs. SN P, SAE vs. SN Q, PiKA vs. Kappa Sigs.Wednesday—4:30—Citcom B vs. Facul­ty, Grad Chems vs. Tau Delts, Grin­goes vs. Kappa Sigs, Citcom A vs. DU. —6:00—TX vs SN Q, Delts vs. Beta Sigs, ATO vs. SAE, Phi Kaps vs.. Kappa Sigs.
Tasso Katselas, TNT captain 
and ace pitcher, led his teammates 
in defense of their campus soft­
ball championship against Citcom 
“A” team in the National League 
opener yesterday.
Alpha Tau Omega Cops 
Intramural Rifle Title
Alpha Tau Omega’s number two 
rifle team captured the intramural 
championship last Wednesday by 
7 points from the Sigma Alpha 
Epsilon entry.
Both teams had won three 
matches prior to the title meet­
ing. The ATO’s ran up 912 points 
against the losers 905.
The rifle competition did not 
carry any points towards the All- 
points trophy.
Professors Begin Organizing 
Faculty Softball Aggregation
Mr. Frick To Groom Intramural Dark Horse;
Nine Old Men Already Signed; More Needed
Contrary to the opinion held by many students, hardening of the 
arteries is not too prevalent among the CIT instructors. Mr. Dale 
E. Strick, instructor in the history department, announced last week 
that some of the school’s decrepit, broken-down, ancient (average 
age, 35 years) faculty members were organizing a softball team!
These hollow shells have long looked with envy at the aura of 
virile athleticism surrounding-
Athletics, Physical Education 
Departments Reorganized
Effect Is Clarification Only; No Changes Made 
In Personnel Or Policy ; H&SS Gets Gym Classes
Reorganization of the administration of Physical Education classes 
and intercollegiate and intramural athletics will become effective 
July 1. In an official announcement released last week President 
Doherty revealed the changes approved last February. .
The department of physical ed-* 
ucation will be transferred to the 
Division of Humanistic and Social 
Studies, and a department of ath­
letics will be established in the 
Division of Student Personnel and 
Welfare.
Such problems as the use of 
facilities and coordinated pro­
grams in athletics and physical 
education will be handled by a 
liaison committee consisting of 
the Director of Student Personnel 
and Welfare as chairman, the Di­
rector of Athletics, and the head 
of the department of physical ed­
ucation. The Division of Physical 
Welfare will be discontinued.
Same Curriculum
No changes in the curriculum or 
manner of instruction will develop 
from this transfer of the depart­
ment. The instructors will merely 
be absorbed into the Division of 
Humanistic and Social Studies and 
will be classified as its personnel.
Under the new arrangement, the 
scheduling of social relations 
courses and gym for the freshmen 
and sophomores will be consoli­
dated.
Changes concerning the Divi­
sion of Student Personnel and 
Welfare will be more substantial.
The department of athletics, under 
a Director of Athletics, will be re­
sponsible for the administration of
all athletics on the campus.
Comprehensive Program
Supervisors of intramural ath­
letics, one for men and one for 
women, will report to the Director 
of Athletics. Together they will 
supervise a comprehensive pro­
gram of intramural athletics foi 
the students.
Appointments thus far have 
been: Director of Athletics, Mr 
Clarence Overend; Supervisor ol 
Intramural Athletics for women 
Miss Dorothy Kanrich, and th< 
ics for men, Mr. David See.
those youths who cavort joyfully 
around the cut about this time of 
the year, and have decided to 
show the upstarts what a soft­
ball team can really do.
All Eligible
All men who are classed as fac­
ulty members and who can flex 
their muscles are eligible and are 
asked to apply to Mr. Strick in 
IH229C or call him on exten­
sion 307.
No uniforms are required, but 
only a burning ambition to avenge 
the aspersions cast upon the fac­
ulty’s athletic abilities and to 
prove that a teacher’s knowledge 
of Cleopatra’s times doesn’t indi­
cate that he ever had dinner with 
her. The applicant must also be 
able to touch his toes without 
bending his knees. Well, maybe a 
little.
Managed Faculty Team
Mr. Strick was manager of a 
faculty team at the University of 
California, and the team placed 
third out of a list of seventy. 
When asked how he thought his 
prospects looked at CIT he an­
swered with a steely glint in his 
eye and in a voice tight with sup­
pressed fury, “We’ll- Win!”
It was stressed that no experts 
were expected but that instead 
everyone who comes out will get 
a chance to play and pay for his 
effort. So far, about nine men 
have signed up, but every position 
is open, with pitchers especially 
needed. If there are enough ap­
plicants two teams will be form­
ed, so all holdouts had better get busy.
Join Intramural Competition
If the softball team works out 
well, and there is no reason it 
should, faculty teams will be 
entered in tne other sports on 
campus. The new competitiors 
will be a welcome addition to the 
intramural program and will un­
doubtedly add interest to the soft­
ball competition.
SPALDING
A SEMI-FINAL MATCH 
IN THE BEVERLY HILLS TDURNEV 
WENT TO 102 GAMES AMD LASTED4 UOUßS AND 45 MINUTES ....THEYHAD TO FINISH UNDER 
THE LIGHTS /
Rawhide reinforcements 
at the shoulders of 
SPALDING and 
WRIGHT & DITSON 
Rackets keep strings 
tighter longer ... and 
“FIBRE WELDING" 
and “FIBRE SEALING” 
give extra strength.
3iOIbTan
mDNvD vhN 0W.N 8A D0FRvD
VA Notice
Veterans are reminded that 
they will be paid 15 days leave 
at the end of this semester, and 
that this period will be deducted 
from their entitlement, unless 
they cancel the leave at least 30 
days in advance. Veterans des- 
siring interruption of training 
status as of June 14 must be 
sure to file a request for cancel­
lation of leave by not later than 
May 9. Forms are available in 
the Veterans Office, 133 Indus­
tries Hall.
Full Schedule 
Needs Umpires
Encourage Volunteers 
By Lightening Duties
With the innovation of twilight 
softball games as a supplement to 
the regular after school contests, 
the intramural athletic depart­
ment has found itself without suf­
ficient umpires to handle the 
eight games scheduled daily.
In an effort to stimulate inter­
est the department has announc­
ed that officials will no longer be 
responsible for school equipment 
used in the games, that duty hav­
ing been delegated to the mana­
gers. All men interested in of­
ficiating are urged to contact Mr. 
David A. See at the intramural 
office as soon as possible.
Unless a solution is forthcom­
ing in the near future, present 
plans call for placing the umpire’s 
duties completely in the hands of 
the two opposing teams.
SUN., MON. AND TUES., MAY 1, 2, 3
HEATER
OAKLAND
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products and 
Nationally Known Clothing and Furnishings
LEONARD'S MENS SHOP
Corner Forbes and Atwood St.Oakland
Make "BUD" your ARROW 
Headquarters
236 Diamond St.
Across From Donahoes
ATlantic 2964

---------------------------------------------------

8THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, APRIL 27, 1949
Great Numbers of PEOPLE
every 100 Pennsylvanians rely 
upon telephone service, directly 
or indirectly, for convenience, 
pleasure, help in time of emer­
gencies and for business of 
their own.To the welfare of the telephone 
business is linked the welfare of 
Pennsylvanians . . . and thus of 
Pennsylvania itself.
It takes much more than great 
quantities of good equipment to 
provide good telephone service.
It also takes groat numbers of 
people.
Nearly one out of every 100 
Pennsylvanians, in fact, either 
works for this company or has 
money invested in the telephone 
business ... while nearly 99 out of
THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY OF PENNSYLVANIA
Scotch and Soda announces I 
that there will be an innovation 
in the presentation of “Molecule 
Man” this year.
Unlike the others of the annual 
shows, this year’s production will 
attempt to overcome much of 
the acoustics trouble of previous 
years by limiting the music ac­
companiment to a duo piano ar­
rangement instead of using an or­
chestra.
Since it is impossible to use i 
any other location than the Car- j 
negie Music Hall (union rules 
make other halls out of the ques­
tion) the acoustics problem had 
to be faced.
There will be no orchestra in 
the pit. Rather, there will be pi- | 
anos, and the heads of Scotch and ‘ 
Soda for this year feel that the j 
search in the play for that amaz­
ing character “Molecule Man” 
will be much more enjoyable as 
a result. The distraction and an­
noyance of straining to hear will 
be no more.
The decision was reached after 
careful experimentation. If it is 
as successful as it promises to be 
the idea may become standard 
tradition.
Key System 
Shows Savings 
Over 1947-48
Eighty-three key awards will 
be made this year at a saving of 
about $620 compared to the esti­
mated cost for the awards under 
the 1947-1948 system.
Forty-one keys will be awarded 
for longevity, 27 for points, and 
15 will be automatic awards. Six­
ty-one keys will be awarded to 
men and 22 to women. The num­
ber of keys presented this year is 
somewhat larger than normal be­
cause some keys are being award­
ed to persons who qualified last 
year under the new system.
The total cost for the keys this 
year will be about $270. Each 
key will cost $2.00 plus 20% tax 
and 10 cents engraving charge.
Recipients can expect their keys 
sometime in the latter part of 
May.
Kappas Play Host To 
Provincial Convention
The eleventh Beta Province 
convention of Kappa Kappa Gam­
ma will be held at the Schenley 
Hotel on April 29 and 30 with 
Delta Xi Chapter of Carnegie 
Tech and the Pittsburgh Alumnae 
Association as hostesses. Dele­
gates from Allegheny, Bucknell, 
Penn, Penn State and Pitt will 
attend the two day sessions on na­
tional Kappa activities and or­
ganizational problems.
Jane Lawton, president of Delta 
Xi, is the chapter’s official dele­
gate to the convention and will 
attend all the workshops and dis­
cussion sesisons.
In The News
The S’nS production of “Mole­
cule Man” will be featured in a 
full two-page spread in next 
Sunday’s Tri-State magazine in 
the Post-Gazette.
Home-Ec Holds 
Fashion Show
Program Co-Sponsored 
With Kaufmann’s
The Home Economics depart­
ment, celebrating its twentieth 
anniversary, will co-sponsor a 
fashion show with Kaufmann's in 
the department store’s tearoom 
next Friday and Saturday, at 3:30. 
One of the main features of the 
program will be a flashback scene 
reviewing the 1920 fashions. An 
I evening gown will be modeled by 
j Marie Delli Gatti, a spectator 
sports costume by Ann Adams, a 
day time dress by Jane Lawton, 
and a beach frock by Donna Durin.
To bring the scene up to the 
present day, 1949 sports wear, 
daytime wear, datetime and eve­
ning wear will be displayed.
Wool, jersey, cotton, nylon, silk, 
i and rayon have been developed 
I into interesting present day fash- 
I ions by other members of the 
; department. Among them will be 
three “originals”. Anita Harkins 
goes from the conventional idea 
and puts pockets in back of a 
wrap around skirt for beachwear 
J over a bathing suit.
Goldie Ziskind designed an en­
semble of pleated date dress with 
a silk -shantung redingate. Jean 
Baker will model an evening 
dress of nylon with a tucked 
beaded waistline giving an em­
pire emphasis.
j Carnegie Students 
| Present Papers 
At ME Meeting
Four Carnegie students will 
present papers at The Pittsburgh 
Mechanical Engineering confer- 
, ence which will be held Friday 
at the Hotel William Penn.
Leslie Githens, ’and John Mos­
ley will jointly present a paper 
on “The Forming of Metals” at 
2:00 p. m. during the Metals 
Working session of the confer- 
1 ence.
Carl Levy and Phillip Lawler 
will present “A Case for Statis- 
j tical Quality Control” at 9:00 a. m. 
during the Management session.
Levy and Lawler are both in­
dustrial administration seniors 
and student members of the So­
ciety for the Advancement of 
Management. Githens and Mos­
ley are both mechanical engineer­
ing seniors, and student members 
j of the American Society of Me­
chanical Engineers.
Shown at the two pianos that will supply the musical backing 
for this year’s Scotch and Soda show are Robert Larimer, Peggy 
McCaul. and Gene Mulligan, who wrote the music for the pro­
duction.* * * * * *
4Molecule Man’ Music To Come 
From Twin Pianos This Year
Cyclotron Coils Successfully 
Moved Overland to Saxonburg
Robert Jones 
To Speak Here
FRAZER PROCESS
SPECIALIZED HAIR REMOVING BY 
LICENSED ELECTROLOGIST
5737 Darlington Road
JAckson 5775
For That Quick Bite, the3iY4C KPaCP4 n4TII
3813 Fifth Avenue
Fast Service and Good Food 
IDEAL FOR LUNCH
As we left Dr. Creutz and his 
tron coils at a Kittanning dock ii 
the Cyclotron” (Tartan, March 1( 
problem of unloading the two cc 
were resting and transporting« 
them to the Saxonburg site of 
Carnegie Tech’s Nuclear Research 
Center. Our hero has now com­
pleted his task, but not without 
difficulties.
After bond requirements had 
been settled with the Pennsylva­
nia Highway department and the 
coils were insured by R. R. Schu­
bert, trucker contracted t<S move 
the coils to Saxonburg, the coils 
were ready to be rolled off the 
barge and onto the trucks on 
March 22, 18 days after they had 
arrived in Kittanning.
Further Delays
With the aid o'f wood and steel 
ramps and a 70 ton wench, the 
coils were moved almost imper­
ceptibly onto the trucks. After 
further delays due to the weather 
and again the highway depart­
ment, the coils were loaded and 
ready to start their 20 mile jour­
ney to Saxonburg on April 1.
Once on the road, no difficulty 
worth considering was encoun­
tered. Expertly handled by Schu­
bert’s experienced drivers, the 
loads moved about two miles per 
hour from Kittanning to Saxon­
burg in approximately lO1^ hours.
“I touched it!”
Great crowds turned out all 
along the route and in Freeport 
the holiday spirited children took 
delight in running up to the coils 
touching them, and proclaiming 
triumphantly, “I touched the cy­
clotron!”
State Panned *
Much of the delay encountered
unhappy associates with the cyclo- 
i the last episode of the “Saga of 
i, page 1), he was faced with the 
Is from the barge in which they
in the movement of the coils was 
due to the state’s refusal to per­
mit the coils to be moved over­
land from the Brooklyn Navy 
Yard where they were construct­
ed.
Commenting on the state ac­
tion, Mr. J. H. Coleman, Jr., busi­
ness administrator of the project, 
said, “The successful movement 
of the coils from Kittanning to 
Saxonburg by motor truck proves 
beyond a shadow of doubt that 
these coils could easily have been 
brought from the Brooklyn Navy 
Yard to Saxonburg overland . . . 
by simply adding eight days to 
the time it took us to go 
Kittanning to Saxonburg.
Pink Eye
[Continued from page 2]
blew up and threw my cigarette 
at a hysterical steelworker who 
had tried to spit on me.
It was satisfying, but it was a 
mistake that cost me and the two 
others with me a terrifying half- 
hour, to say nothing of assorted 
injuries. (The AP wire from 
Pittsburgh quoted a police official 
as saying that “the pickets made 
no attacks” on the group.)
We finally escaped from the 
main mob, but the “spectator” 
(also courtesy of AP) whose face 
I’d burned caught up with us with 
a half-a-dozen more in tow. 
Rather than bring down the whole 
mob on us, especially the girl, we 
raced for a lone policeman who 
managed to summon about seven 
more, and after what seemed 
hours they helped us through the 
insane crowd and shoved us on 
a trolley to town.
Six windows in the trolley were 
smashed before we moved a block, 
and at the next stop my victim 
and five of his buddies piled on. 
We sat there, surrounded by the 
six all the way downtown, trying 
to explain our identites, trying to 
avoid any violence because of the 
girl. At Penn and Stanwix, we 
pushed them aside long -enough to 
get off the car with only minor
April 29.30
Robert E. Jones, one of the na­
tion’s outstanding theatrical de­
signers, will describe “The The­
atre of Tomorrow” to a Confer­
ence for Pennsylvania College and
Robert E. Jones 
# * *
Civic Theatres meeting to be held 
on the campus Friday and Satur­
day, April 29 and 30.
Jones, who has designed such 
major productions as John Bar­
rymore’s “Hamlet” and Marc Con­
nolly’s “Green Pastures,” was al­
so one of the first designers to 
work with color in the movies.
He will speak to the represen- 
tives of approximately 35 Penn­
sylvania colleges and theatres 
during a luncheon in the Faculty 
Club Saturday.
hurts.
Shouting “Get the Commies!” 
we were chased across Penn Ave­
nue, where I was slugged from 
behind and knocked forcibly 
against a parked car. (That’s how 
I got the shiner.) My assailant 
took off with his pals after my 
friend, while the girl yelled for 
help. As I started to pick myself 
yp, a bystander muttered reluc­
tantly, “Well, he’s down now, I 
guess we better help him up.”
Heaven help the guys that have 
to be Commies twenty-four hours 
a day!

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 27, 1949THE CARNEGIE TARTAN9
TNOi1c .W0NUDtlAffvÆSL
KYHP Yac IO44,m ,Y7 EOLP CY 1P iEYCYn4OiEPbt ,Y7w4P iTKfPb CY P3KY4C bYII, bO4Pc CEP EYII,­/YYb EPCOT4OVY74 KEY3Pa V 
i4YHVM7PPa Wo d
Twb nTLP H, KETO4Y3K74Y
dOKfPC CY EOLP H, iTKC74P 3PaC CY CET3 à 
I7I7 Oab ,Y7 37If8m£HOnT a PL* PICKING S ; L« CET3 1YdP4f CY ’30 /TCE 
iEYCYnPaTK C4TaTC4Y­
CYI7YI ITfP b0II,m3EP5 O3fPb FY4 O iTKC74P YF 8 
tETH Oab IYYfm p
0V0m 3Y7ab3 ITfP KTnO4PCCP EOanYLP4 m
/P iTKfPb A 3O4CY4TOI
C4POC FY4 bYII,c 1T3s 
FPIIO /*3RKnT7 KY7 t4nEYK Fn
3C4TiP3 Ta ET3 ^-r^piSPOSITlON
f IO44,c ,Y7LP nYCV 
KTnO4PCCP EOanYLP43 
3/TCKE CY iiETITi HY44T3 Oab [
I Pab TC jCEOaf3 CY iETITi HY44T3 Oab ,Y7 i,CETOa iOI3 YF HTaP m iO4bYac CEP4Pw3 bYII,OII 4TnEC HPacVTwII 
wnTLP TCO /ET4Im
mKO4/c ,Y7LP nYC CYiw 1YXVYFFTKP OiiPOI^ FY4 ITCCIP bYII,V W IPC3 3TC Y7C CEP aPXC KEY473 Oab\^'V PadY, iET7i T HY44T3 ' r
'PO3, CEP4Pc OiYIIYmVCEP C4OTa C4Ti 1Y4Pb HP Oa 
T 3HYfPb CYY H7KE V TwH OiC CY 1TCP V
nPC EPi nY4nPY73* 3/TCKE CY O KY7iIP YF nPaCIP KEO4HP43 ITfP iET7iHY44T3OabH,3PIF
QuennE
ITFC3 IO44, CY YI,HiTOa 
;bPITnEC3 /TCE O KTaPHOCTK EY7'v<m
3HYfTan Oab 3C7b,Tan 3Y EO4b EOLP IPFC HP 
iPbTK7IY73t T EOLPawC CEP LPIIPTC, CY YnIP CEP Y7PPa YF 3EP1O
dYEaa,3 4TnEC; 1Y,w iET7i HY44T3 T3CEP QMi KTnO4PCCP i4YLPb bPFTaTCPI, IP33 T44TCOCTan!
Use These Words With Tongue In Cheek!
(Plan to use ONE every week!)
EY/ KOa O nOI 1P O3 INCANDESCENT O3 ,Y7 Oab,PC 3Y KYYII, TaCPIITnPaT?)
CALLFOR/
t/erex Me Alow/Ctmpfete 0(/r~75/&—
Behind our playful plot, our intentions are serious: we want 
you to discover for yourself the welcome DIFFERENCE in 
cigarettes that PHILIP MORRIS can bring you.
Established PROOF of that difference is too extensive to be 
detailed here—but pre-medical and chemistry students, who 
will be especially interested can get it in published form 
FREE, by writing our Research Dept., Philip Morris Co., 
119 Fifth Ave., N. Y.
phiup MORRIS
CHIAROSCURO (kee-ar-o-skoo-ro) — A pattern 
of light and shade.
CIGARETTE HANGOVER—(to be whispered, never 
pronounced). That stale, smoked-out taste, that 
tight, dry feeling in your throat due to smoking.
CINEMATIC HOURI (oo-reo) — In short, a beau­
teous film star. /
HETAIRA (het-air-ah) — A play-girl (ancient 
Greek type).
INCANDESCENT (in-can-dess-ent) - Glowing.
PEDICULOUS (ped-i£u-1u*) — Bug-infested.
PYTHIAN (pltlv-e-an) — Devoted; from Pythia«, 
that famous friend.
SARTORIAL (sar-tor-yal) — As of a snappy set 
of threads.
TRINITROTOLUOL (try-nl-tro-tol-u-ol). T.N.T.
VELLEITY (vel-laV-lt-oe)—A slight nebulous wish.Eta Kappa Nu To 
Initiate Six Men 
At Spring Banquet
Six new pledges will be ini­
tiated into Eta Kappa Nu, elec­
trical engineering honorary, at 
their annual spring banquet on 
May 4.
The pldges are David K. An­
derson, Frederick Modavis, 
Charles W. Norris, James B. Ram­
sey, John C. Rider, and Frank L. 
Wagner.
Besides the six pledges, Major 
A. E. Dogan of the ROTC at CIT 
will be given honorary member­
ship in the organization.
Members of the IRE and AIEE 
will also be present at the ban­
quet which will be held at the 
Church of the Redeemer.
New IA Grad 
School Not Yet 
Set To Open
But Six Senior IA’s
Sigma Nu, DG Win Sin
Phi Kaps, Thetas 
Second Best
Sigma Nu fraternity and Delta 
Gamma sorority won the coveted 
first place awards in Carnegie 
Tech’s ‘¿G’ version of the Greek 
Sing held last Friday night at Sol­
dier’s and Sailor’s Memorial Hall.
Second place fraternity and 
sorority honors were captured by 
Phi Kappa and Kappa Alpha The- 
ta respectively. Delta Tau 
and Delta Delta Delta were 
awarded honorable mention.
Each of the first and second 
place winners were given cups at 
the Greek Swing, which was held 
in the Gymnasium the following 
night. Unlike other years, the cur­
rent victors will have permanent 
possession of the cups. Previously, 
only first place awards were made, 
and then only on a yearly basis. 
Three victories were necessary to 
retain the cups permanently.
A last minute cancellation by 
Mr. I. W. Danforth, Pittsburgh 
Civic Light Opera, made it neces­
sary to name another Judge. He 
was Dr. McClurg Miller, director 
of the Tuesday Music society, a 
women’s choral group.
Jo Ann Barr and Mike Palmer accept Greek Sins: cups from 
Dick Shaffer for Delta Gamma and Sigma Nu respectively.
A moving rendition of “Let Ev­
ery Tongue Adore Thee,” helped 
Sigma Nu win out, while the ever 
popular “Shortinin’ Bread” gave 
the Delta Gamma’s the edge they 
needed.
Some of the Sigma Nu men must
have felt that they were destined 
to win when in the drawing held 
to determine the order of appear­
ance they drew the number one 
spot of the evening; oddly enough 
the Delta Gamma sorority was 
also the first sorority to sing.
Newman Club
To Celebrate
‘Mary’s Day’
Newman Club members, to­
gether with other interested 
Catholic students, will celebrate 
“Mary’s Day” on Sunday, May 
1 at 8:00 p. m. on the Mount Mercy 
College campus.
As outlined by Rev. Eloy 
Grundler, Chaplain of the C.I.T. 
Newman club program, is de­
signed as the Catholic answer to 
the godless society in which we 
live and study. Included in the 
program, which is to be held both 
in Anonian hall and outdoors on 
the Mount campus, will be a ded­
ication to the Blessed Mother, a 
sermon by Father Quigley, and 
solemn benediction.
Every Catholic collegian is in­
vited to attend the “Mary’s Day” 
devotions, at which the represen­
tation is hoped to exceed 1,000 
students from the five local cam­
puses. No admission will be 
charged.
Those students attending from 
Carnegie Tech will assemble in 
front of Fine Arts at 7:15 p. m. 
and then proceed to Mount Mercy.
Robert Paustian Robert Johnson
Ernest Snoyer Harry Miller
tive students from outside Carne­
gie are not now being considered.
The six students who will be 
taking part in the work next year 
are Joe Vogan, Ernest Snoyer, 
Robert Paustian, Harry Miller, 
Carl Levy, and Robert Johnson. 
All six will hold assistantships for 
their one year’s work.
Building a Question
No decision has been announced 
concerning the location of the 
School’s building which is to be 
built with a part of the funds re­
ceived from the May T. and W. 
L. Mellon Foundation.
During the coming year the 
planning committee for the school 
expects to begin building up a 
very small senior staff in addition 
to the present IA staff. This senior 
staff will participate in the plan­
ning of the new program.
Will Start Through As 
‘Guinea Pigs’ Next Fall
Carnegie’s new graduate School 
of Industrial Administration will 
not be in operation next year, nor 
is any definite date set for its 
opening, Acting Dean G. L. Bach 
has announced.
However, an experimental pilot 
group of six men, all presently 
seniors in the department of in­
dustrial administration, will act as 
“guinea pigs” next year as the 
courses are developed and the fac­
ulty selected.
No Applications Taken 
Acting Dean Bach emphasized 
that work was being pushed ahead 
very slowly and carefully, and 
that applications from prospec-
Joe VoganCarl Levy

---------------------------------------------------

10THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, APRIL 27, 1949
;U HTIY T3 4TnECc OIOat
T faY/cCYYc 1PKO73P T ‘ 
HObP CEP KOHPI 30ViO, 
CP3Cm Oab KOHPI3 V
„ CO3CP 3Y nYYb m d
i4 KOHPI3 
O4P O IYanVCTHP 
FOLY4TCP /TCE HP 
CYa 1m T faY/ EY/ 
• HTIY O KTnO4PCCP 
KOa 1Pm
/TCE 3HYfP43 
/EY faY/t t t TCw3
In a recent test of hundreds of people who smoked 
only Camels for 30 days, noted throat specialists, mak­
ing weekly examinations, reported
aYC YaP 3TanIP KO3P 
YF CE4YOC T44TCOCTYa 
reN vF D2FB8Al
R. J, Reynold» Tobacco Co. 
Winston-Salem, N. 0.
With fans who know... it's
)HPPC HP CYaTnEC Ta b4POHIOab) (Signature Record)
• Alan Dale, a top-ten phono favorite, gives out 
with the solid dream music. Yes, for starry-eyed 
dancing, just ask for Alan Dale’s new number. And
for mild, flaiorful smoking pleasure, just ask for 
Camels! Take it from Alan—"Camels are a grand 
smoke ... a cool, mild smoke!”
Lang & Co. Refuse To Present 
Charges Of Tartan Malfeasance
Following Tartan editor Robert Johnson’s challenge to “Show 
me where the Tartan has gone wrong” made at the Student Council 
meeting on March 30, four Dormicom members appeared before 
the Publications committee on April 4 to present their charges.
Johnson made his demand after4
explaining that he had heard sec­
ond and third hand reports al­
legedly originating with Arbon 
Lang, John Fondrk, Tom Sedg­
wick, and John Engle concerned 
with bias and suppression in Tar­
tan coverage of campus news.
Claiming that they were not 
prepared to present-any charges 
at the Council meeting, the three 
Councilmen agreed to present 
them at . the Publications commit­
tee. Lang accompanied the trio 
and acted as primary spokesman 
for the group.
Voting Questioned 
Before presenting any charges 
or evidence, Lang asked that in 
any decisions of the committee on 
the case Johnson, Tartan business 
manager Sam Moses, Publications 
chairman John Fockler, a former 
member of the Tartan staff, re­
frain from voting. This was 
agreeable to those concerned.
Next Lang asked that an ap­
peal board of faculty members be 
set up in the event that either he 
or Johnson disagreed with the 
committee’s decision.
Fockler and Walt Ambrose, 
Technical editor and committee 
member, pointed -out that as yet 
no question or problem had been 
submitted to the committee, that 
the publication’s committee was 
set up to keep such controversies 
out of the faculty, and that this 
case might be a way to find out 
if the present publications com­
mittee could handle publications 
problems.
Vote Unanimous 
The committee then voted 
unanimously, with Johnson, Mos­
es, and Fockler abstaining, to hear 
the case themselves before making 
any alowance for an extra-legal 
review body.
At this juncture Fondrk put on 
his hat and coat, preparatory to 
leaving. Johnson pointed out that
he had gone to Council in the 
first place to discover the specific 
charges against the Tartan, and 
that he still had not heard the 
charges.
Fondrk’s rejoinder was, “if you 
don’t know what’s wrong with 
the Tartan, nobody can tell you.” 
With this, the four left, prom­
ising to take the question up 
through “other” channels.
This seemed to satisfy the Pub­
lications committee, whose mem­
bers still had no knowledge of 
the “charges” which the four ap­
parently had prepared.
Beaux Arts 
Plans Exhibit
Carnival ‘Clothes Line’ 
Display Also Planned
Inactive since the cancellation 
of its Ball last February, the 
Beaux Arts Society is working 
on the planning and installation 
of a photography exhibit in the 
Hewlitt Gallery-of the Fine Arts 
college.
The collection of photographs is 
called “In and Out of Focus,” and 
it is presently being circulated by 
the Museum of Modern Art in 
New York. The show, which will 
open in May, will be composed 
of the best photographic murals, 
montages, and pictures from the 
original New York show.
Another project of the society 
is a sidewalk “clothes line’4 ex­
hibit, which will display prints 
and paintings during Spring Car­
nival week-end. This show will 
take on the appearance of a Par­
isian street exhibit, displaying the 
work of many painting students.
Alumni Grant * 
Will Finance 
Math Study
A grant from the Alumni Fund 
has recently been given to the 
department of mathematics to 
finance a study of the department’s^, 
courses in mechanics.
In a letter dated April 8, Pro­
fessor J. B. Rosenbach, assistant 
head of the department, stated that 
the purpose of the study is to de­
termine what changes, if any, are 
necessary to bring the statics, 
dynamics, and strength of mate­
rials courses into closer agreement 
with the principal objectives of 
the Carnegie Plan of Professional 
Education.
Basic Material
Primary objectives of the Car­
negie Plan are: (1) to teach stu­
dents to solve concrete problems 
by the same well-ordered process 
of analytical thought that is char­
acteristic of professional problem­
solving; (2) to integrate all courses 
by teaching them with reference 
to each other.
Emphasizing material which is, 
basic to all branches of engineer­
ing and science, the new courses 
will be presented in such a way 
as to develop the student’s ability 
to think for himself.
“In order to accomplish this,” 
said Professor Rosenbach, “the 
course content will be carefully 
examined and each topic tested 
according to its logical place both 
within the framework of mechan­
ics itself, as well as according t(d 
its place in the coordinated plan 
of engineering and science educa­
tion.
To Be Tested
“Out of complex situations as 
encountered in practice, the stu­
dent will be led to the formulation 
of precise problems and to the ap­
plication of fundamental princi­
ples in their solutions.”
Any changes that arise from the 
forthcoming studies will be testedg 
in various experimental courses 
beginning with the fall semester 
of 1949.
NewFangledContraption Feeds 
Skibo-Hounds Electronic Chow
[Ed. note. The other night a 
young fellow walked in the Tar­
tan office and said he wanted to 
write something for us. So he did. 
What follows is his work. We 
aren’t sure just what it is, but we 
don’t think it’s too bad, even 
though it doesn’t quite fit our 
usual style, we hope. Make up 
your own mind.]
{ * * *
Bv ? ? ? ?
No, its not true. Eating a Ra­
dar sandwich will not sterilize
you. Hamburgers, hot dogs, toast­
ed cheese, baked ham. You name 
it, they got it. Cooked by little 
neutrons, deutrons, electrons. No 
more old fashioned grilles. Tech­
nology in the raw. Science at
work. The Carnegie Plan. The la­
bor of technicians applying basic 
fundamentals of science to the 
problems of living and bringing 
you sandwiches cooked by Radar. 
Could you ask for more?
This science stuff is so great
that it only takes five seconds. No 
more waiting in lines for sand­
wiches. Too bad they don’t have 
radar coffee too. While waiting 
for a cup of coffee it is rumored 
that this Radar machine can turn 
out 7,975 sandwiches. They come 
zig-zagging off a little conveyor 
that carries them through the Ra­
dar rays.
This device developed by Mr. 
Paul Kistler, former director of 
food services for the Army Air 
Corps, is being tried out in Pitts­
burgh here at Skibo. The sand­
wiches resemble a long cylinder­
like bun and are wrapped in cel­
lophane to insure purity and qual­
ity.
Along with the current line of 
sandwiches offered Radar will 
soon be supplying hot pies to Tech 
students hardy enough to eat in 
Skibo. As Kistler says, “We heat 
’em, you eat ’em.
Age Of Marvels
Skibo waitresses make sandwiches with new Radar machine. * * * * * *

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 27, 1949THE CARNEGIE TARTAN11
The Carnegie Plaid
Page edited by Evening School Students of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology
Co-editors .......................... Robert Ellstrom, Frank Mihelich
Associate Editor............................................Raymond Schwalm
Circulation Manager ........................................ George Dawes
Staff
George Bogovich, James Flaherty, Cecille Zellner
Editorial
Back To The Students
The end of the semester is fast approaching but we have 
yet to hear any comment from the students concerning the 
return to elections on the evening campus. We advocate the 
election system as the only fair and equitable method of select­
ing representatives. For the past seven or eight years there 
have been no elections due to the low enrollment and to lack 
of student interest. This lack of interest was the result, we 
believe, of the overcrowded schedules of the students.
Now, however, things are returning to normal and we feel 
that it is about time that student government return to the 
students. We have no quarrel with the present group, but it 
is readily seen that with no one to be accountable to, they 
could become careless. It becomes, therefore, the duty of the 
student body to call for elections for the purpose of determin­
ing who shall comprise student council.
We feel sure that there are enough responsible people 
registered at Carnegie to carry out this mandate. Talk or write 
to any member of student council, and return student govern­
ment to the students.
a
/NDv L8Nu iWRB
DANCELAND
One Night Only SUNDAY, MAY 1
K<WerN ChFRAh8<<
and His Orchestra
Admission $1.50 plus taxDancing 9 to 1
\
Two Little Books
THAT FIT ANY POCKET
Mellon checking services are tailored to fit 
your needs. You can choose between two 
kinds of checking accounts.
Mellon Specialized Cheeks require no 
minimum balance. You deposit any amount 
you wish and simply pay a small charge for 
each check you write.
Or, you may prefer to open a regular 
Mellon Checking Account. This gives you 
free checking service if you keep a sufficient 
minimum balance on deposit.
Either way, Mellon Checking Accounts 
are a safe and convenient method to pay 
bills. No trotting around from store to store 
each month. No need to keep a file of re­
ceipts of all sizes and shapes. When you pay 
by check, your cancelled check is evidence 
that you have made payment.
Wouldn't it be a good idea to stop in and 
let us tell you about these checking services?
MELLON NATIONAL BANK 
Fifth Avenue, Oakland
HPIIYa aOCTYaOI 1Oaf 
Oab C473C KYHiOa,
Federal Drpo.it humane« Corporation
Evening School 
Social Groups 
Hold Meetings
Phi Gamma Pi Initiates 
14; Sigma Delta Phi 
Has Meeeting, Party
Apparently honors for the most 
active group on campus are going 
to Phi Gamma Pi which held two 
teas this month. On April 3 the 
new pledges entertained the girls 
in the traditional meeting held 
before their initiation.
The new girls planned the af­
fair at which they all took part 
in several sketches and some 
singing. After the meeting a 
luncheon was served, highlighted 
by a cake bearing the colors and 
insignia of the organization.
Last Sunday the initiation ban­
quet was held under the direc­
tion of Miss Marjorie Bomer, 
pledge mistress. Fourteen girls 
took the oath in a candlelight 
ceremony, Miss Ethel Witzel, 
president, presided at the initia­
tion.
The initiates were: Rose Marie 
Allias, Elsie Bishoff, Margie Ann 
Dunn, Susan Daood, Mary Flynn, 
Betty Jane George, Mary Green­
away, Ellen Gonter, Norma Jones, 
Ruth Ann Jones, Virginia Kratz, 
Betty Jane Oberg, Catherine 
Rupcic, Ruth Wokutch, and Bon­
nie Dunmire.
Last Saturday, Sigma Delta 
Phi, evening fraternity, held a 
social meeting in the Carnegie 
Union. A short business meeting 
preceded the party which was at­
tended by approximately thirty- 
five couples. At the business 
meeting those present discussed 
plans to reserve a table at the 
Engineer’s banquet for the men 
from the group who are going to 
attend that affair.
Singing and dancing took up 
most of the evening after which 
the couples enjoyed a buffet 
lunch. Ray Schwalm, social chair­
man was in charge of the social 
and president James Flaherty 
presided at the business meet­
ing.
FOUR BARBERS TO 
SERVE YOU
If You’re Particular, See theCPKE 1O41P4 3EYi
Corner of Craig and Forbes
Evening Student Council Gives 
Annual Suim '-Dance On May 7
Sivim Begins At 7:30 p. m. In Carnegie 
Pool; Dance Follows In Thistle Hall At 9:00
Evening Student Council's addition to the already crowded end- 
of-the-semester social calendar is going to be a swim-dance on 
May 7 at the Carnegie pool and in Thistle Hall. This affair, pat­
terned after its very successful predecessor last year, will begin
with swimming at 7:30 and danc­
ing will start at 9:00. Swimming 
will end at 10:00 or earlier if there 
are no endurance swimmers in our 
midst. Confidentially, we will be 
quite surprised if anyone goes the 
full distance. Dancing will con­
tinue until 1:00, and the Black Cat 
will open at 8:30 with a good sup­
ply of soda pop and potato chips.
For your dancing pleasure a 
four piece combo will play. This 
group is well known on campus. 
There will be no tickets sold so 
donations of fifty cents will be ac­
cepted at the door. This is the 
last social event of the year, and 
we hope that it will be well sup­
ported.
NewsAndViews
After a short breather most of 
the fellows at evening school 
walked into classes with a spirit­
ed gait. Guess a week or so of 
rest is just the thing to jolt a fel­
low back into reality.
Just a last reminder that the 
Engineer’s banquet is to be held 
Saturday, April 30. There are still 
some tickets available, so in case 
you are reluctant to go to this 
affair because you fear that the 
tickets are all gone, banish the 
thought for you still can get your 
ticket in Mr. McKelway’s office, 
room 132a Industries.
In case you have noticed that 
some of the evening school girls 
have been displaying flashy 
white, purple and green hair 
bows don’t become alarmed for 
they are just initiates of Pi Gam­
ma Phi evening school sorority.
Some of our evening students 
raised the question about the 
parking problem now that the 
baseball season is here with quite 
a few of the games to be played 
at night. Will the baseball fans 
who find parking in CIT parking 
lots a convenience be a cause for 
concern?
Sigma Delta Phi evening school 
social fraternity held a combin­
ed meeting and social Saturday
Special Lunches for 
Students and Businessmen
11:00 A. M.—2 :®0 P. M. 40e and UT
O7CEPaCTK KETaP3P bT3EP3
—also—
OHP4TKOa bT3EP3 3P4LPb
Bamboo Gardens
3531 FORBES STREET 
MA. 7493
J. Pawl Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-0il 
Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
POOR old Sheedy had a hang dog look before he tried the 
Finger-Nail Test and switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil. 
Today—he’s a blue ribbon winner. Regular use of Wildroot 
Cream-Oil now gives him a snappy, well-groomed look. No 
longer i# he bothered by dryness and loose, ugly dandruff. 
He's out of the dog house for good with his girl friends. Why 
not dog trot down to your nearest drug store for a bottle or 
tube of non-alcoholic Wildroot Cream-Oil right now! And ask 
your barber for professional applications. You’ll find that once 
you start using Wildroot Cream-Oil containing Lanolin, you’re 
a gay dog in even the best society.
* of 327 Burroughs Dr., Snyder, N. Y.
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N. Y,
evening, April 23 at the Carnegie 
Union. This group since its' re­
activation has become very active 
on campus. Jim Flaherty is Pres­
ident of the organization.
Tis rumored that Bob Ellstrom, 
genial engineer about campus is 
to take the fatal step this sum­
mer. Couldn’t happen to a nicer 
fellow. (Editor’s Note: The gal’s 
name is Muriel.)
The excavation being done ad­
jacent to Engineering hall is at­
tracting it’s share of sidewalk 
superintendents from evening 
school.
Although we haven’t tossed 
any hurrahs in the last few edi­
tions we would like to direct our 
hurrahs this week at Byron May 
and Jim Frape, co-editors of the 
handbook 1949-50. These boys are 
doing a grand job on the hand­
book and deserve much praise.
Let's go to
ISALY'S
H8<B 3hWBND 
18l T.N KRNW2 KFAND 
f<FAr8BND 
CWD'o <eA.hND
Three Stores In the College 
District
5808 FFRByU 3vRNNv 3ke8RRN< E8<<
37S¿ FFR—FD 3vRNNv YWB<WAr 
Main Plant!
3380 1Fe<N(WRr F' vhN O<<8ND
PXiP4C 4PiOT43
RADIOS, PHONOGRAPHS, APPLIANCES
Sales and Service
LEWIS RADIO 
ELECTRIC CO.
USS OAKLAND ATI.MA. «11
Bring Your Radio Problems 
To Us
M TEARS EXPERIENCE 
At Your Service
4Uinard Stuclioò 
Fine Portraitures
O00<8.Wv8FA prints and 
0hFvFDvWvD in W hurry
MUseum 0314
3919 Forbes Street
(Corner Atwood) Room III

---------------------------------------------------

HTIbP4 -MUCH HTIbP4 
Tv’D H, .8lWRNvvNt”
STARRING IN TULSA 
A WAITER WANGER PROD. IN TECHNICOLOR 
AN EAGIE-UON FftMS RELEASE
The TOP MEN of AMERICA’S SPORTS 
smoke CHESTERFIELD
WHtTEY lockman Chesterfields or me
everytime. I smoke’em becouse*ey re
<<o 28<rNR WAr —NvvNRVvWDv8Alt
MORE COLLEGE STUDENTS SMOKE 
CHESTERFIELDS THAN ANY OTHER CIGARETTE
•V LATEST NATIONAL SURVEY1949. Uccrrt k Mnu Tomcco Co.
MAKE YOURS THE MILDER CIGARETTE
THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY. APRIL 27, 1949
P&D’s4See-Througli9 Billboards 
Will Improve Scenic Highways
Help is on the way to rid the country of the billboard nuisance 
which spoils many scenic views along the highways. Carnegie Tech 
painting and design students have designed the billboard of tomorrow 
which is not only a pleasure to see, but be seen through.
Eye Catching ?------------------------------------------------------
The new Carnegie “billboards” 
are stylized, three-dimensional 
structures embodying a minimum 
of written message and a maxi­
mum of eye-catching, interest- 
holding display force.
Richard I. Felver, Associate 
Professor of Industrial Design at 
Carnegie, states the designs will 
deliver a message either by direct 
association with an object; or by 
their structural form—dignity be­
ing explained by vertical lines, 
richness by texture, and excite­
ment by diagonals, curves and
contrast.
“These displays,” says Felver, 
“will show what a product is, what 
it stands for, and what the manu­
facturer wishes to express to the 
public.”
Utilizing common building ma­
terials such as steel, concrete, iron, 
rope, and wood, the “outdoor dis­
plays” are as interesting and at­
tractive as works of sculpture or 
architecture.
Use Of Symbols
Expressive of our times, the 
new displays are intended to in­
terest by their newness and to at­
tract attention by tneir forceful 
and attractive appearance. They 
may be used as symbols or trade­
marks.
The new displays were design­
ed to stand in landscaped parts 
either along a highway or in front 
of a manufacturer’s plant.
The unique element of these 
new type “billboards” according 
to Felver is that they take ad­
vantage of everything that can 
be seen: colors, textures, lines, 
depth, and air.
Air Is Free 
Felver points out that the use 
of air is of special interest be­
cause it is free. This should re­
sult in somewhat lower costs, for 
“the more use we get effective 
size with a minimum of material.” 
One thing about the billboard 
of tomorrow is definite—traffic 
cops will have to find another 
place to roost.
Contest Winners
Lucky winners of the “Name 
the Band” contest are Jean 
Zapolsky, Junior, MMCC, and 
Justin Davidson, Freshman, 
Electrical Engineer. They will 
each receive a ticket to the Car­
nival, a carton of Philip Morris 
cigarettes, and will have their 
pictures taken with Woody Her­
man’s band.
Pi Tau Sigma Initiates 
Senior, Two Juniors
The active chapter of Pi Tau 
Sigma, mechanical engineering 
honorary, initiated three pledges 
on Thursday, April 21, at Car­
negie Union. The new members 
are Richard Gray, senior, and 
Arthur Pienkoski, and Metro 
Spewock, juniors.
A picnic has been planned for 
Sunday, May 1, at South Park.
Pan-Hell Gives 
Coke Party
A non-rush coke party will be 
given by the Pan-Hellenic coun­
cil at the Carnegie Union on Mon­
day, May 2 from 4:00 to 3k45 p. 
m. All freshmen women interest^ 
ed in joining a sorority next fall 
are asked to attend. This will be 
an excellent opportunity for the 
girls to meet representatives of 
the sororities.
The sororities have made ar­
rangements to initiate all the new 
pledges in the next few weeks. 
Kappa Alpha Theta initiated two 
on April 23; Chi Omega initiated 
four on April 24. Alpha Epsilon 
Phi will initiate five on April 290 
Sigma Kappa, three on April 28; 
Delta Gamma, ten on April 29; 
Delta Delta Delta, three on May 
3 and 5; Kappa Kappa Gamma, 
nine oi^ May 7.
