File No.n&C oxc/
fartan
VOL. I., No. 14PITTSBURG, PA., WEDNESDAY, FEB. 6, 1907PRICE FIVE CENTS
BASKET BALL.GLEE CLUB.THERMOMETERS.
Candidates Called for Practice.Second Annual Concert Is Held.Temperature Scaie.
Through the efforts o£-Mr. Hender­
son, ’08, of the Athletic Association, 
the East Liberty Academy Gymnasium 
has been secured as a place of prac­
tice for the basket-ball candidates. 
Notice has been posted for all who 
wish to compete to sign names to­
gether with the position sought, and 
a large number have responded.
It ought to be a source of very great 
interest to the students, for two 
primary reasons, that is, as has 
been stated in The Tartan of 
a previous issue, the fellows are 
prone to neglect their exercise, and 
this branch of athletics should give 
them a strenuous winter sport and keep them in condition; also there 
are numerous men who have declared 
their intention to try for the team and 
if their past prowess as players is at 
all in evidence in our games, there 
will be little doubt as to the success 
of this department of sport.Newdorfer, who played center at P.
H. S., has an enviable reputation as a 
basket-ball man, as also has Lytle, 
Ramp and Sprengle. It is of course a 
little early to draw a line on the men, 
but watch for notice in a later issue.
Following is a list of candidates; 
Charles, Neudorfer, Hagan, Schaub, 
Exline, Knight, Cornell, Ramp, Lyman, 
Harrison, Slocum, O’Brien, Brennen, 
George, Chambers, Mildrell, Bell, Kaun, Mason, Darnberger, Fahnestock, 
Ross, Shoop, Burgham, Beeken, Close, Patch, Adams, ¡Shallenberger, Gross, 
Gibson, Ludwig, Wilson, Hogland.
---------o---------
The Criminal Club.
All of the students and friends of It is well known that the scale of 
Carnegie Tech, who attended the con- temperature defined by any thermom-
cert of the combined musical clubs on last Friday evening, came away with 
a well satisfied look and a verdict of: 
“The boys have done finely.” A well selected and rendered program showed 
the result of hard, conscientious re­
hearsing, and too much credit cannot 
be given Mr. Barrington for the able 
manner in which he has directed the 
clubs. Mr. Robt. Parsons made a good showing as manager and his abil­
ity in handling the details is worthy 
of praise.
It would be an injustice to single out any one number and comment 
upon it as apart from the rest, for 
every one was enthusiastically receiv­
ed. Director Hamerschlag, when ask­
ed for a statement relative to the con­
cert, said:“February 1st, 1907, will constantly 
recall itself to my mind as the date 
on which the Glee and Mandolin Clubs 
gave a most enjoyable concert at the
eter consisting of a glass envelope 
filled with a liquid is dependent upon the composition and treatment of the glass. Even samples of glass from the 
same pot show differences in this re­
spect. Mercury thermometers, ¦ al­
though capable of very great precision 
when properly constructed and used 
with due precautions, are therefore 
not suited to establish the standard scale of temperature.
The temperature scale which has 
come into almost world-wide use in 
the interval — 35° C. to + 100° C. is the hydrogen scale of the International 
Bureau of Weights and Measures, as defined by the following resolution of 
the International Committee on 
Weights and Measures adopted Oct­
ober 15,1887: “The International Com­
mittee on Weights and Measures 
adopts as the standard ther­mometric scale of t-he inter­
national service of weights and
Carnegie*Music Hall before a large and measures, the centigrade scale of the 
appreciative audience of the friends of hydrogen thermometer, having as
the School.The spirit of the occasion, fine music 
and the school melodies linger 
with me as I send these lines of con­gratulation to all those who partici­
pated. It is occasions like this which tend to knit together all the students 
of the different schools and bring them 
in contact with the larger life of the 
community. It would be unfair were 
any individual or branch of these or­
ganizations to be mentioned specifical­
ly as all concerned must have lent
fixed points the temperature of melt­
ing ice (0°) and of the vapor of dis­
tilled water boiling (100°) at standard atmospheric pressure; the hydrogen 
being taken at an initial manometric 
pressure of 1 meter of mercury, that 
is to say, 1000-760 = 1.3158 times the 
standard atmospheric pressure.”
On this scale of temperature, there­
fore, 1 degree centigrade is measured by 1-100 of the change in pressure, 
between the two fixed points, of the 
confined mass of hydrogen gas, whose
President—George Fleichman.
Vice President—Stanley Kann.Secretary and Treasurer—William 
Sprengle.The last member initiated was Mr. 
Sprengle. Officer Stoeckel was mas­
ter of ceremonies. Many congratula­
tions were given by the Woodlawn 
Cottage men.
(Continued on page 2.)
every effort and co-operation to have volume is kept constant, and whose 
produced so marked an improvement 
since last year’s concert in 1906.
There is just one note which I be­
lieve should be struck at this moment.
It concerns not alone the Glee and Mandolin Clubs but all similar social 
effort on the part of the students. It 
concerns the support of these organ­
izations and the student interest in 
(Continued on page 2.)
initial pressure (at 0° C.) is equiva­
lent to 1 meter of mercury (at 0° C., 
lat. 45°, sea level).
For temperatures in the interval 
— 35° C. to + 100° C., the standard 
scale of temperature adopted by this 
Bureau is the international hydrogen 
scale, defined by the mean indications of a number of primary standard mer- 
(Continued on page 6.)

---------------------------------------------------

Hotel Schenley
2
Estimates 
Given 
for 
School 
and 
Club 
Dinners.
BA SA KETL. GC
— OAKLAND—
Meat Market
CHOICE HOME DRESSED 
Meats & Poultry 
UHRM OaBnEd diA
Both Phones.
Bell Phone 1939 Highland
tediLsld f oaLliC
Hatters and Furnishers
dLrL Pcuu eIcumcC EA EA
OPEN EVENINGS.
142 Park-BOTH PHONES-142 Schenley
Scarborough & Klauss,
HARDWARE and HOUSE 
FURNISHING GOODS..
Mixed Paints, Glass, Cement, Sewer Pipe 
Furnaces, Tin Eooflng acd Job Work promptly dons 
Improved Midget Gras Furnaces 
UHRp OLOit eoEshEA
THE TARTAN
VOOL .I,N,o14 .4PTS
(Continued from page 1.)
' The Metallurgists began work in 
the Assaying Laboratory last Monday 
under Prof. Crabtree.
The Chemicals are about to erect a 
memorial in the Chemical Lecture 
room to dedicate the spot where the 
high water mark was reached on stiff 
exams. “Jan. 30—Mineralogy.” Not 
a man survived. They have decided 
to make it out of a compound of fer­
rous sulphate and hydrochloric acid.
The snow-ball battle of last Friday 
has certainly left its mark on many 
of the men. It is a safe estimate 
that there are fifty black eyes in 
school.
The Transpoi't is oil dry-dock. Cap­
tain Phillips and Mate Sampson don’t 
look so tired nowadays.
The Tartan would like to publish 
some of the descriptions of class­
mates written in Prof. Mac Lucas’s 
period.------o-------
GLEE CLUB.
(Continued from page 1.) 
them. Each school ought to develop 
a spirit of solidarity, the whole to be 
combined in a uniform interest where 
their combined efforts are representa­
tive of the institution. This requires 
I individual support of every effort 
made by the class, of the school and 
by the institution. More students in 
the audience would have been gratify­
ing. Those who remained away lost 
two opportunities: One to show loy­
alty and another to partake of a stu­
dent musical concert far above the 
average in quality, in enthusiasm and 
in length.
Let us hope the next concert will be 
patronized by every student in the 
Carnegie Technical Schools even 
though it means sacrifice, long jour­
neys, and the breaking of other minor 
engagements. An occasion which is 
important enough to occupy the inter­
est of the entire Faculty and to pro­
duce a school recess certainly ‘should 
compel the interest and enthusiasm of 
every individual enrolled in the 
schoo.l
PROGRAMME.
Part I.
1. (a)—Amici ............................ ............
Glee Club.
(b)—-Old Folks at Home..Foster 
Mr. George and Glee Club.
2. College Life ....................Frantzen
Mandolin Club.
3. Tech Medley, No. 1...............—-------Glee Club.
4. “Doan Yo’ Cry, Ma Honey”.. .Noll
Glee Club.
5. It Happened in Nordland. .Herbert
String Quartette.
6. Winter Song.............................Bullard
Glee Club.
Part II.
7 The Three Graces......................Eaton
Mandolin Club.
8. ¡Sing Me to Sleep...................Greene
Mr. Laithe and Glee Club.
(Violin Obligato by Mr. Render.)
Beii Phone 292 J Schenley
M. H. JONES
—Maker of—
GENTLEMEN’S FINE
GARMENTS
Latest STYLES. Prices Extremely Low 
121 OAKLAND AVE.
.. . SHIRTS 7.~
wg x,b&cv
to give every young man one of ours to 
wear. Our Shirt Sale makes it easy.
McCANDLESS & GORDON CO.
33-0 3Dia.i^xo33.<3. St.
ALL TEXT BOOKS USED IN 
CARNEGIE TECHNICAL SCEIOOLS.
SUPPLIED BY
R. S. Davis & Co. 
441 WOOD STREET
Drawing Instruments, i Squares, 
Triangles, &c.
Telephones- jp &a- 228i,X1 ELEPHONES . j Bell 2957_J Highland
“TECH” SPECIALTIES AT
THE HOLMES COMPANY 
BOOKMEN, STATIONERS, ENGRAVERS,
6016 PENN AVE., E. E., PITTSBURGH.
BOTH PHONES 2097
The EFNw,F EA Rieck .DA
SELECT 
CREAMERY PRODUCTS 
MILK CREAM
and ICE CREAM
Cor. Forbes and Stevenson Streets 
PITTSBURG, PA,
9. Cradle Song .........................Bendix
String Quartette.
10. Sextette (Robin Rood).De Koven
Glee Club.
11. Circus Parade ..................Jennings
Mandolin Club.
12. Alma Mater.........Auld Lang Syne
Glee Club, Mandolin Club and
String Quartette.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN3
HAVE YOU A BANK ACCOUNT?:
More than two thousand Oakland people have their accounts here and receive every accommodation consistent with safe banking.
TBUST CO.
Capital, - $200,000.00
r PER CENT. ON CHECKING ACCOUNTS.
Surplus,$126,700.00
win 4 rt-K CKIN 1 . UN SAVINGS ACCOUNTS.
Atwood Pharmacy
J. T. McFADDEN, Prop. 
Cor. Forbes Ave. & Atwood St.
Bell 9080 Schenley 
P. & A. 166 Park
LIBERTY
CLEMI AID mum CO.
301 OIR,^.IC3- ST.
Hockey and Gymnasium Shoes
Graeser & Crowley’s
Iroquois Block
Open till 
9.00 P. M.
A FATHER’S LETTER TO SON AT 
SCHOOL.
Homespun Parental Advice on Econ­
omy and Hazing.
. . . 3612 
Forbes Street
BUSINESS IMPROVING !—so—
WE’VE ANOTHER CHAIR !—at—
The “TECH ” Barber Shop
C01*. Craig and Forties Sts.
H. F. VAN CUREN
My Dear Son: Your letter of last
week reached us yesterday, and I in­
close $13, which is all I have by me j 
at the present time. I may sell the 
other shote next week and make up ] 
the balance of what you wanted. I j 
will probably have to wear the old j 
buffalo overcoat to meetings again this I 
winter, but that don't matter so long 
as you are getting an education.
I hope you will get your education I 
as- cheap as you can, for it cramps 
your mother and me like Sam Hill to 
put up the money. Mind you, I don’t complain. I knew education come 
high, But I didn’t know clothes cost so 
like sixty.I want you to be so that you can 
go anywhere and spell the hardest 
word. I want you to be able to go 
among the Romans or the Medes and 
Persians and talk to any of them in 
their own native tongue.I never had any advantages when 
I was a boy, but your mother and I 
decided that we would stock you full 
of knowledge, if your liver held out, 
regardless of expense. We callate to do it, only we want you to go as 
slow on swallow-tail coats as possible 
till we can sell our hay.Now, regarding the .boat-padding 
suit and that base-ball suit and that 
bathing suit and that roller-rinktum 
suit and that lawn tennis suit, mind,
I don’t care about the expense, be­
cause you say a young man can’t re­
ally educate himself thoroughly with­
out them, but I wisn you would send 
home what you get through with this 
fall, and I’ll wear them through the 
winter under my other clothes.
We have a good deal severer winters 
here than we used to, or else I’m fail­
ing in bodily health. Last winter I 
tried to go through without under­
clothes, the wav I did when I was a 
boy, but a Manitoba wave came down 
our way and picked me out of a crowd 
with its eyes shet.In your last letter you alluded to 
getting injured in a little “hazen 
scuffle with'a pelican from the rural 
districts.” I don’t want any harm to 
come *to you, my son, but if I went from the rural districts, and another 
gosling from the rural districts under­
took to haze me. I would meet him 
when the sun goes down, and I would 
swat him across the back of the neck 
with fence-board, and I would me
^ 3714 FORBES ST,OAKLAND. 
PITTSBURG.
dPE.LeV oeVhEd
—IN—Winter Underwear
5 STYLES, 5 WEIGHTS at 
da .cugv w lw,7cugC
~4ARR e dhLi
Advance Styles Spring Shirts Arriving.
and put a blue forget-me-not under his
eye.Your father ain’t much on the Gre­
cian mythology and how to get the 
square root of a barrel of pork, but he 
wouldn’t allow any educational insti­
tutions to haze with impunity. Per­
haps you remember once when you 
tried to haze your father a little just 
to kill time, and how long it took you 
to recover. Anybody that goes at it 
right can have a good deal of fun 
with your father, but those who have 
sought to monkey with him, just to 
break up the monotony of life, have 
most always succeeded in finding 
what they sought. I ain’t much of a 
pensman, so you will have to excuse 
this letter.YOUR FATHER.
—From St. Louis Republic.
---------o---------
—4p4R-
Classes 2-C and 2-D held a smoker 
in Room 116 on Wednesday night, 
Jan. 23. Mr. Peters of 2-C, entertain­
ed the boys with some ‘of his humor­
ous recitations of personal remeinis- 
censes.
Through the generosity of a member 
of the athletic delegation committee 
from 1910, Morrison of 1911, was elect­
ed to “fill a position of trust and im­
portance,” as 'was reported by the 1911 
reporter in last week's Tartan. We 
did not want to play a “freeze out” 
game, 1911.
The lecture on “Thermometry” 
given by Mr. Norwood, Friday, Jan. 
18, was attended by nearly all of 1910.
and some very instructive points on 
ander across the pit of his stomach i thermometers were obtained.

---------------------------------------------------

4THE TARTAN
THE TARTAN
Official Student Organ Carnegie Technical School
F. Ei Foster, ’08.............Editor-in-Chief
R. K. Merrill, ’08... .Associate Editor
J. H. Taxis, ’10............Associate EditorJ. M. Sampson, ’08. .Business Manager 
H. P. Fowler, ’08. .Ass’t Business Mgr 
CORRESPONDENTS.
Jean Herron.............M. M. C. S. (Day)
Edith Clark...........M. M. C. S. (Night)
J. S. Charles.. .Applied Science (Day) A. F. Stamm. .Applied Science (Night) 
A. G. Lamont, ’09...........Applied Design
Subscription Rates
Yearly.............................................$1.00
Single Copy..............................5 Cents
For Advertising Rates address the Business Manager, care Carnegie Technical School.
NOTICE.
The management of the Hotel 
Schenley wishes to announce that on 
every Wednesday and Saturday a 
course Matinee Luncheon will be 
served at 1^ noon, $1.50 per person. 
A Menu will be mailed by request. 
The Schenley will make a special 
feature of the above for those who 
wish to entertain Theater Parties. 
Reserve tables in advance.
Engrue’s Orchestra will be in ser­
vice from 12 to 2 Wednesdays and 
Saturdays.---------o---------
DEBATING SOCIETY.
Through the kindness of Miss Smith 
the Debating Society met in the 
Woman’s General Assembly Hall last 
Thursday for their regular weekly 
meeting.
Mr. Wagner gave a very interesting 
and instructive address upon the Art 
of Debating.
It was decided by a unanimous vote 
to change the name of the Society to 
The Philharmonic Literary Society.
The executive committee announced 
the following program for the next 
regular meeting to be held in the 
woman’s general assembly hall next 
Thursday, the 7th inst.: “Resolved, 
That the wage earners are benefited 
by a protective tariff.” On the affirm­
ative, E. Israeli and S. L. Potts; on the 
negative, L. E. Exline and J. A. Cohen. 
Mr. S. J. Kalin is also on the program 
for an oration.
MECHANICALS GIVEN CHOICE,
Last Friday morning Prof. Trinks 
delivered a short lecture to the Ma- 
cbanicals on the choice of a branch of 
Mechanical Practice, The course is 
to be divided into three sections, 
namely: Design of power-producing 
machinery, Design of power-consuming 
machinery, and Design of iron and 
steel works machinery. The profes­
sor dwelt at length upon the various 
branches which each division is in­
tended to include, together with the 
all-important subject of the salary
which is to be expected by specialists 
in each line. In the latter connection 
he mentioned the fact that a consult­
ing engineer should expect an income 
of from minus one hundred dollars to 
plus five thousand dollars per month. 
About fifteen men declared for the 
prime mover course, eight for the iron 
and steel branch, and five signified 
their intention of taking up machine 
design, it being the intention of the 
faculty to start special work very soon.------o-------
THE SNOW BALL FIGHT.
No one knows exactly how it start­
ed, but all who took part in the battle 
of last Friday know how much fun was 
gotten out of it. ' It appears that at 
about 12.45 some Juniors started to 
initiate the Plebes into the mysteries 
of some nice fresh winter apples, and 
their application to the r~ -Jr.ction of a 
swelled head. At first th., Hebes were 
slightly outnumbered, but they fought stubbornly for a quarter of an hour, 
until the rest of the class arrived in 
the various recitation rooms."" But, 
the sight of their classmates being 
worsted was too much for the latter, 
and they flung lessons to the winds 
and sailed in. At this juncture some 
of the Juniors put in an appearance, 
and the battle began in earnest. The 
Juniors lacked a-leader, but stubbornly 
contested every foot of street from the 
main entrance to the architect’s 
“shanty,” at which point the Plebes, 
under the leadereship of Exline, called 
the battle a draw and allowed the 
Juniors to depart with all the honors 
of war. The casualties on each side 
were something frightful to behold, 
the Plebes paving somewhat more 
than the Juniors due to their greater 
numbers, but when it was all over not 
a “sore head” could be found, no mat­
ter how 'many times he had been 
pelted by the opposing side. This is 
the kind of spirit that ought to prevail 
in a school, and it is understood that 
the faculty like to see such evidences 
of class spirit when they do not occur 
too often.---------o---------
INVENTORS ENJOY THEMSELVES.
Last Thursday evening, at the invi­
tation of Prof. and Mrs. Follows, about 
half of the Inventors Society gathered- 
together for a little talk, eat and 
smoke at the Follows residence in 
Woodmont street. We were also hon­
ored by the presence of Messrs. Wil- 
let, Keller, Leeds and Trinks and their 
stories were well appreciated. Prof. 
Follows read a short article entitled 
“Advice to Inventors,” which had been 
written by him some years ago for the 
“Home Study Magazine,” and which 
contained several points by which in­
ventors may be guided, as well as an 
explanation of the pitfalls into which 
they are likely to fall.
Refreshments were served (of 
course) by the excellent help of Mr. 
Leeds, who distinguished himself as
head waiter, and covered himself with 
glory by refusing a tip. Euchre and five 
hundred were next in order for those 
who wished to play, while the rest of 
the party were entertained with stories 
and pictures of Prof. Follows’ fishing 
trips. The meeting broke up about 12 
o’clock, and everyone seemed glatl that they came.---------o------—
NEWS ITEMS.
The members of the Electrical sec­
tion are installing the storage batter­
ies for Prof. Gibbs in the Electrical Physics Department.
The Foundrymen’s Association of 
Pennsylvania held their meeting at the 
schools last Monday evening. There 
was a large attendance. The mould­
ing machine question was discussed. 
Four of the machines were exhibited.
The members of the Musical Clubs 
held a luncheon downtown last Friday 
night after the Concert. The Spra- getti was fine, they say.
The B-D union held their meeting 
last ¡Saturday evening. Gaston was 
elected President, but Weidlein was 
a close second. Be a student, Fred.
The Hyde Roller Bearing Co. have 
presented the Mechanical Department with a Roller Bearing with the under­
standing that the students shall deter­
mine the friction co-efficient. The 
students are making the investigations 
with the Sinking (I mean the floating) 
dynamomteter. Pass the salt, please.
The Uniontown morning Herald 
came out with a lengthy first page ar­
ticle last Thursday, describing the al­
leged acts of rowdyism of the Tech 
men when one of their number was 
arrested. It was not a bad written 
series of lies, rather interesting in its 
details of how the angry mob stormed 
the jail, and were only subdued upon 
the arrival of the reserves. The fol­
lowing day’s editorial column contains 
a scathing article^ also, upon the lack 
of the proper spirit on the part of the 
beneficiaries of Mr. Carnegie’s philan­thropy, further saying that the donor of 
the Technical Schools is much worried 
over the students’ attitude.
We do not entertain the idea for a 
moment that Mr. Carnegie is seri­
ously worried over our actions be­
cause we are informed that he is a subscriber to more reliable sheets 
than the Uniontown Herald, and noth­
ing has been done this year by the 
students which has overstepped the 
bounds of gentlemen.
Prof. Thayer (in Applied Mechan­
ics) : “It was zero at the stai’t, and
the full amount at the beginning.”
On Saturday evening next the Civil 
Engineering Society will hold their 
regular monthly meeting and election 
of new officers.

---------------------------------------------------

VBL V1IV1o5
P. LUDEBUEHL & SON,
CUSTOM
FITTING
SHOES 
$5.00 - $4.00 - $3.50
PENN AND FRANKSTOWN AVES. 
East End.
JUNIOR PROMENADE.FOR EXPERTS
A RESULT
-OF-
E1PEBi BEdEeB.t
The Connell-Hughes Water Purifier 
and Aerator The water from this 
apparatus has been proven absolutely 
pure, and is most palatable.
Partial list of installations:
Carnegie Technical Schools.
Union Trust Co.
Mellons National Bank.
The Liberty Restaurant.
McKennan’s Pharmacy, 431 Market st.
Friebing's Drug Store, 1500. Lincoln 
avenue.
Porter’s Dru£ Store, N. Highland ave­
nue.
Walker’s Drug Store, Sewickley.
Huston’s Confectionary Store, Bry­
ant street.
Show Rooms, 509 Wood street.
Now Is the Time to Force the Issue. Engineers, Architects, Draughts­
men—Experts or Students . . .
Should get acquainted with 
the resources of supply for 
all Drawing and Artists’ Ma­
terials offered by this house
KURTZ, IANGBEIN & SWARTZ,
606 Wood St., 6th Ave.
atW dEE tEsBqC
For Your Photographs
Work Unexcelled
O. C. HENRY 
Studio, 321 Fifth Ave. - Pittsburg, Pa.
Special Discounts to Students
The Class of 1908 did extraordinarily well last year in establishing prece­
dents for later classes and received 
the applause of every one connected 
with the school. There seemed to be 
no lack of initiative, and some issue 
was constantly claiming the interest of the student body.
This year matters have completely 
reversed themselves, the class is stag­nant. They must be aroused or 1907 
will not mark the establishment of 
any Junior precedent.
There are few matters which would 
command greater attention of the men than a Junior Promenade. It is some­
thing we have all looked forward to 
yet nobody dares force the issue. It 
is true that the proposition is a diffi­
cult one, yet with the selection of a 
committee of pushers and the counsel of Director and Mrs. Hamerschlag 
(which I believe would be gladly given) there would be little doubt as 
to its success.There are a large number of the fellows who have pledged their sup­
port and more will join the ranks when they see that some “effort is being 
made. Let us make the effort at 
once and get things started. Ask the Class President to call a meeting, ap­
point the committee, set them to work 
and make them give us results.
NEW BOOKS.
“Fifty Feet Ahead.” By Applegate, 
indorsed by Miss A. S.
“The Diary of a .Convict.” By
Sprengle.
“Letters of a Tailor-Made Son.” By
Davis.
NOTICE.
Mr. and Mrs. Elmer Schumacher at 
home after Jan. 23, 1907, No. 23 Lemon 
street, Columbus, Ohio.
One Pioneer Tech Man: “Once
when I was down and out J got a free 
shave at a Barber school in San Fran­
cisco.”Wessy: “Is there on in Pittsburg?”---------o---------
SOME CURRENT NICKNAMES.
Cultivate the Habit.
Sprengle ....................... ¡Stripes.Weick .............................. Fusser.
Beeken ......................... Sparrow
Knight .......................Hwangte
Best ................................ Roomie.Todd ................................ Skunk.Gaston ..................... Monsieur
Tingley .............................. Babe
¦|i ¦!> »I« »fr >|i i|i >2» .li »fr «I» »X« "I* *1* *1* *1* *1* *1* "I*
WHEN YOU HAVE
A SOCIAL GATHERING
Let us send you the Ice 
Cream and Cakes. We’ve 
been making these for 
over thirty years, and 
“know how.” We feel 
sure that what you buy 
of us will please you. . .
Therefore we say
-Come to
- HALLER’S -
Iroquois Block 3618 Forbes Aye.
*i*****t*???
Kaercher’s Drug Store
COR. FORBES AND CRAIG STREETS
Sclienley 1456 and 9018-J303 Park

---------------------------------------------------

6THE TARTAN
Fraternity Pins, Class Pins, Badges, Prize Cups, Fine Tools
HEEREN BROS. & CO. MMACTOTG JEWELERS and SILVERSMITHS.--HEEREN BUILDING, PENN AVE. & 8TH ST»---
Sc w,c gYc Kwkc,v Dy gYc .w,uc’bc ic&YA d&YDD­ PbuvA
THERMOMETERS.
(Continued from page URGA curial thermometers, constructed by 
Baudin and by Tonnelot, which have 
been carefully studied and compared at various times with the standards 
of the International Bureau.
As hydrogen gas is not well adapt­
ed for use at high temperatures, on 
account of its great chemical activity 
and the ease with which it diffuses 
through the walls of the containing 
envelope, the standard scale of tem­
perature used in the interval 100° C. 
to 550° C. (and higher in pyrometric 
work) is that uefined by the nitrogen- 
gas thermometer. This scale is fixed 
by the mean indications of a number 
of platinum resistance thermometers.
In the interval —35° C. to —200° C., 
or lower, the standard scale is fixed 
by the mean indications of a number 
of platinum resistance thermometers 
that are referred to the scale of the 
hydrogen-gas thermometer by calibra­
tion at three known temperatures 
(steam, ice, boiling point of oxygen).
Primary Standard Thermometers.
By the term primary standard ther­
mometer is meant a thermometer 
that defines within itself a, scale of 
temperature. These thermometers 
must therefore have on their scale the 
two fixed points 0° C. and 100° C. 
Experience has shown that the length 
of one degree which best satisfies the 
requirements for primary standards in 
the interval 0° C. to 100° C. is about
6 or 7 mm. (not less than 5 mm.); 
for the higher temperatures the length 
of the degree may be less. In order 
not to unduly increase the length of 
the thermometer the scale of a pri­
mary standard need include only the 
region in which it is intended for use, 
e. g., 0° C. to 50° C., 100° G. to 200° 
C., etc. It must, however, be so con­
structed, by suitable auxiliary reser­
voirs in the stem, that it contains the 
two fixed points, and, further, that the 
volume of any part of the stem can 
be referred to the fundamental volume 
between the 0° C. and 100° C. marks.
If a number of such thermometers 
were made of the same specimen of 
glass, subjected to the same treat­
ment, they should agree well among 
themselves, and they would serve to 
fix a definite scale of temperature for 
that particular kind of glass; and if 
the scale defined by this glass had pre­viously been compared with that de­
fined by'the gas thermometer, it would 
then be possible to express the indi­
cations of the mercury in glass ther­
mometer as temperatures on the scale 
of the standard gas thermometer. 
The scales defined by a number of the
best thermometric glasses (verre dur, 
Jena 16111, Jena 59111) have been compared, either directly or indirectly, 
with the hydrogen scale of the Inter­
national Bureau, so that the indica­
tions of primary standard thermom­
eters made of these glasses can be 
used to measure temperatures on the 
international hydrogen scale.
As stated above, primary standards 
made from the same specimen of 
glass should be in agreement among 
themselves, but in order that this 
might be the case it would be neces­
sary that the thermometers be per­
fect in every respect, which can not, 
of course, be realized in practice. 
They must therefore be constructed 
in such a way that the necessary cor­
rections may be readily determined 
and applied. One of the two fixed 
points is determined in a mixture of 
pure ice and distilled water (0° C.) 
and the other in the vapor of pure 
water boiling under standard atmos­
pheric pressure (100° C.). In a per­
fect thermometer the interval be­
tween these points would be divided 
into 100 parts of equal volume. In 
the practical construction of ther­
mometers this is approximately done 
by calibrating the tube by sliding mer­
cury threads along the capillary and 
observing their lengths in various 
positions. By this method good la­
boratory and commercial thermom­
eters can be constructed that may be 
depended upon to a few hundredths 
of a degree. For primary standards, 
however, this method of construction 
is not permissible, for here the cor­
rection for variation in caliber must 
be known to a far higher degree of 
accuracy and must be determined by 
the most careful calibration of the 
tube. The amount of work involved 
in the calibration is very greatly in­
creased if the divisions are irregu­
larly spaced. The tube of which the 
thermometer is made must be careful­
ly selected by a preliminary calibra­
tion and must be very uniform in 
cross section. The greatest differ­
ence in the calibration corrections 
must not exceed 0.2° C. or 0.3° C. at 
most. After the positions of the fixed 
points are determined, the space be­
tween must be divided into parts of 
eoual length. For this purpose a di­
viding engine should be u«ed whose 
screw has been very carefully studied 
for orogressive and periodic errors. 
As the length of a degree is generally 
about 5 to 7 mm. in primary standards, 
the accidental errors of ruling should be kent within a few thousandths of 
a millimeter. The graduation marks 
on the stem must be very fine and 
clear, and their thickness must not be 
greater than 0.1 of the smallest scale
BELLEFI ELD PRESBYTERIAN 
CHURCH,
Fifth and Be 11 efie I d Avenues.
Rev. Daniel Russell, D.D., Pastor.
Sunday Services:
9.45 a. m.—Young Men's Bible Class, 
conducted by W. H. Stevenson.
11.00 a. m.—Preaching—8.00 p. m. 
Students of Carnegie Technical School 
welcome at all services.
Sabbath Evenings in February, 1907.
Your temperament is not your fate.
The Gospel and
(Feb. 3) The Melancholic.
( 10) The Sanguine.
( 17) The Phlegmatic.(24) The Choleric.
When your will blends with God’s, 
even inherited tendencies to evil ac­knowledge their defeat.
10 to 20 PER CENT OFF
ON
Drawing Instruments, Triangles,
Scales, Slide Rules, T Squares 
and Architect’s* Supplies.
Koh-I-Noor Pencils, Erasers, Thumb Tacks,
E.B.Connell.D.J.Spence,
AGENTS FOR
Kurts, Langbein & Schwartz.
interval and should, preferably, be much less.
The indications of thermometers 
will also be influenced by variations 
of pressure on the outside of the bulb 
due to variations of atmospheric pres­
sure and of the pressure of the me­
dium in which the bulb is immersed, 
and by the pressure from within due 
to the mercury column of the ther­
mometer itself and to capillary forces. 
For this reason it is necessary to de­
termine the external and internal 
pressure coefficients so that the indi­
cations of the thermometer can be 
reduced to standard conditions, i. e., to an external pressure of 760 mm. 
and an internal pressure of zero 
(really the somewhat variable pres­
sure of the mercury meniscus) cor­
responding to the horizontal position of the thermometer.
Further, as it is not possible for the 
maker to locate without error the 
fixed points, these must be determined 
with the greatest care, in the manner

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN7
HOME 
of the 
Interscholastic 
POLO
601-903
BASKBETL AEL.GCUC
WHERE The COLLEGE BOYS GO 
izvb,gJ5yDm,gY wuF Pcuu eIcumcA 
OLsEdi E$hLPPET B L INS G Ls itE dieiE
All Car Lines.
POLO GAMES
EVERY
MONDAY
AND
FRIDAY
EVENINGS.
EIMER & AMEND
205=211 Third Avenue, New York
Manufacturers and Importers of
Chemicals, Chemical Apparatus,
WBED,.14 1WW1I1VPDS 
SCIENTIFIC INSTRUMENTS.
Everything Needed in the Laboratory.
already indicated, by observing the 
reading of the thermometer in steam, 
and the corresponding barometric 
pressure; and immediately after, be­
fore any recovery of the zero shall 
have taken place, the reading in ice. 
This gives the value in degrees of the 
interval between the fixed points, 
called the fundamental interval of the 
thermometer, and therefore the value 
of one division in degrees. The fun­
damental interval should not be in er­
ror by more than 0.1° C.
The stem of the thermometer must 
be transparent, so that the errors of 
parallax can be avoided by taking the 
mean of the readings with the scale 
before and the scale behind the mer­
cury column; for this reason the use 
of the enamel-back stem is not per­
missible in primary standard ther­
mometers.As the amount of work involved in 
the study of a primary standard ther­mometer is very great, and the order 
of accuracy aimed at is a few thou­
sandths of a degree, the requirements that have been discussed, which are 
based on the elaborate and painstak­
ing researches carried out at the In­
ternational Bureau of Weights and Measures and at the Physikalisch- Technische Reichsanstalt, are essen­
tial to the acceptance of such ther­
mometers for test as primary stan­
dards.------o------
1911.
.A DEEP PROBLEM IN FRACTIONAL 
EQUATIONS.
The first and fourth of four num­
bers are eight less than the second, 
which is nine times the third. Their 
sum is twleve. If any one should have to give a second thought as to which 
is “the” class let him solve the above 
problem.
Deggleman wants to know if the ve­
locity is any greater when one falls
the track team, or is there a “girl in the case?”
An apt smile: By Prof. Trinks—
“The stretching of a bar of steel al­
ways reminds me of a lady's waist.”------o------
ATTENTION, 1911! ! !
“fast” asleep than when one dozes off 
into the arms of Morpheus after a long wooing.
Some one accused Drake of being 
slow because he did not take advan­
tage of the presence of mistletoe at 
a recent holiday function. ‘ Lee” said, 
“It is not good sport to play a game 
with all the odds on one side, and be­
sides, what is the use of running after a car when you got it at your elbow?”
This is a query which stumped 
Ebben: “How can a scientist divide an 
odorless, colorless and tasteless gas 
into atoms of such infinitesimally 
small dimensions, and know that he 
has got anything?”
By buying straw hats in the fall, and 
winter clothing in summer and doing 
other similar stunts, Russell Sage 
amassed an immense fortune. But even he would have bought a Tartan 
now and then. Those who are trying 
to imitate him take notice and get the 
next issue.
“So prepare yourself each day that 
you can look any old prof. in the eye 
and tell him you know your lesson.” 
With apologies to a certain quotation 
seen frequently on post cards.
Cain killed Abel because he (Cain) 
was able. What a difference a cap­
ital letter makes sometimes.
Some 1911 men object to buying a 
Tartan on the flimsy ground that “my 
name Is never in it.” There is a fixed 
scale of prices for advertisers and 
such members should consult Mr. 
Sampson.
Informal gatherings in the “mess 
room” are getting popular with 1911 
men. Any subject from smokers, ban­
quets and dances to skating girls and 
sleigh parties are discussed.
Are those two night men who race 
from school every night candidates for
There will be a meeting of the class 
of 1911 on the evening of Feb. G, 1907. 
This is to be the most important meet­
ing of the year and a large attendance 
is not only looked for, but also imper­
atively necessary for the proper delib­
eration of several questions of moment. 
Readers of The Tartan will recall the 
pertinent and emphatic remarks of 
Mr. H. Tritchler, of 1911, in a recent 
issue, on the subject of attendance at 
class meetings. The article was of more than ordinary worth as it cov­
ered a point which all Tech students 
would do well to learn. Should the 
special English class prevent any 
members from attending the class 
meeting, President Harley will at the 
request of the class officers call a spec­
ial meeting for the evening of Monday, 
Feb. 11, 1907.Everybody come out to this meeting 
which will take but an hour, and learn 
what is going on. Give your sugges­
tions and trot out any pet scheme you 
have which might give the social com­
mittee a hint as to what you want in the way of a social diversion. Think 
a little between now and the date of 
the meeting and help adopt a motto for 
the class.We have a lot of deferred business, 
too, which ought to be attended to. 
Come, put your shoulder to the wheel 
and let us have an enthusiastic rally.------o------
NOTICE TO JUNIORS.
Verbatim notes on Industrial Eco­
nomics lectures may be had upon ap­plication to Business Manager of Tar­
tan.—-------o------
AN ADVERTISEMENT.
Re-Freshing after the day’s work,
use the Cohen brand of freshness.------o------
Miss Nixon—“What is Idaho?”Miss------“Why, a State of course.”
Miss Harley—“What is a heretic?” Miss Leschorn—“It’s a mattress.”
What made the fly fly? Because the 
spider spiced her.
Miss Stutz (in Physiology)—“The, 
snow, the snow, the beautiful snow.”
It came with such a rush,
Next day it turned to slush.”

---------------------------------------------------

8THE TARTAN
||BiBJBlSl3jciJS]c!Jc!JÈ!jt-,cLci.tH;ËiBifflSJ3JSJ§[3JSlË]ËiË!ibüSiSJiH;Ë]'fii ueLui ^ _ 4^._ ^¿¡cüDiiiilcyâüïêlISlSJSJSfSSlSId^-Sl^^Ê!.1^^^^————
3-ENT . . .
NEWARK SKATEhockey shoes *Geo_ H. Stoebenerl rZz........ 1
NONE BETTER I 6227 PENN AVENUE
WE FIT THEM RIGHT g 6222 FRANKSTOWN AVENUE | THE BEST MADE
ciiSlSEISMSMjSMSJSJSSjSiSjSSJSlSiEJiiueljSSiijSlSjSSJSiB i JA J. ¿uiiiJiSSiSMSMSMBfcirSiSiSMBMSSfSiSiSSJBlSJSMSISMSJSI^ISJSJSISiSl
M. M. C. S.
Dream ’till your dreams come true,
Look on the sunny side ;
Fortune will smile some day on you
And your ship will crest the tide.
What if the sky be grey for a while?
The sun will soon break through,
Coax it to shine by your own winning 
smile,
And dream ’till your dream comes 
true.
Chorus.
Just think of roses and sweethearts 
and June,
Make things as bright as they seem;
Keep on the sunny side, and pretty soon
You’ll be living your heart’s dream.
If, from your dreams you wake
And see Hope’s roses die,
Sing like a lark, tho’ your heart may 
break,
’Till rainbows shall arch the sky;
And as the ghost of old Grief melts 
away
Gladness will be supreme;
Forget all the tears of that sad yes­
terday
And go back to your heart's' dear 
dream.—------o---------
TO BE OR NOT TO BE.
I sometimes think I’d rather crow, 
And be a rooster than to roost,
And be a crow. But, I dunno.
A rooster he can crow also,
Which don't seem fair when crows 
can crow,
Which may help some. Still, I dunno.
Crows should be glad of one thing, though,
Nobody thinks of eating crow,
While roosters, they are good enough 
For anyone, unless they’re tough.
There are lots of tough old roosters, 
though.
And anyway a crow can t crow,
So mebby roosters stand more show, 
It looks that way. But, I dunno.
Miss Selheimer—“The title of my 
story, ‘Modern Old Maids.’ ”
Miss Stutz-—“Thank you, I am very 
anxious to hear myself described.”
Through the kindness of Doctor 
Eaton the students of the day class 
were given the privilege of hearing 
Burton Holmes’ lecture on “Switzer­
land.” About one-half the student 
body attended on Thursday evening 
and the rest will be present next week. 
Doctor Eaton’s thoughtfulness is
greatly appreciated and no one will 
miss this fine opportunity.
In Chem.—“What is the purpose of a fire extinguisher?”
Answer—“To extinguish the fire, of 
course.”
What is wrong with the night boys? 
M. M. C. S. night classes want to know.
Miss Aiery—“Mr. Barnett, please let 
me write on the board? Rom-e didn’t ask permission.
Prof. Barnett to several day boys— 
“Boys, you don’t know what you 
missed by not attending our skating 
party.”
PERSONALS.
Just a Few Answers in Materials of 
Construction Quiz.
Question: What is meant by the
resultant of two or more forces?
Answer No. 1: If two or more forces 
act on a body for a certain length of 
time and starting from some point the 
resultant is the distances they will 
come together most convenient or 
the shortest time or the equal dis­
tances between which the forces are 
acting.
Answer No. 2: The resultant of two 
or more forces is the distance between 
those forces.
Answer No. 3: The resultant of
two or more forces is the distance 
between the ends of each of the forces.
Answer No. 4: The resultant of two
or more forces is point of application 
inversely to the square root of it.
Prof. Trinks—“I am now going to 
give you some information on some­
thing I don’t know anything about.”
Prof. MacLucas—“Your voice is 
rather poor, you should try to culti­
vate the habit of using your voice 
right.”
Koethen—“I’ve got another voice I 
can use but it hurts.”
Inquirer—“Have you any punched 
paper with holes in it?”
Weidlem—“We have no punched 
paper without holes in it.”------o-------
OF INTEREST.
In this season of good resolutions 
perhaps here is a helpfnl thought by 
Caspar Whitney: “Learn to say No
to yourself with a big N.
Play hard when you play, and play 
fair.
Don’t bet; it takes the edge off the 
fun. If a game does not give you 
enough fun on its own account look 
for one that does.
M bbieu El ecbric Co.,
Electrical Construction, Repair Work 
and Supplies of Every Description 
6010 CENTER AVENUE
E. E., PITTSBURG, PA.
Bell Phone Highland 172
GOOD THINGS TO EAT
AT THE PURE FOOD STORES OF
Geo. K. Stevenson B Co.
Sixth Avenue Highland and Center
Down Town Y1DV YoF
Maxwell Wyeth, Pres. Edwin Gilbert, Sec. &Treas.
EDWIN GILBERT & CO.
BUILDING CONSTRUCTION 
1534 Chestnut St., Philadelphia 
Carnegie Technical School, Pittsburg
Don't gamble; it is a mighty poor 
investment; you never get your money’s worth.
Be ready for all your contests—your 
percentage of wins will then be higher.
Play, in which the loser has no share 
in the benefits, is poor play.
Never kill time.
The game which requires the incent­
ive of money (betting) is one for 
sporting men, not s'portsmen.
If you cannot play the game, get out 
of it.
If you cannot speak kindly of your 
competitors hold your peace.
It is better to lose through the other 
fellow’s cheating than to win by his 
dishonest methods.
Don’t throw mud; some of it is sure 
to spatter the wrong person, besides 
look at your own fingers.
---------o---------
What Is It?
A buzz, a whirr—
A cloud of dust—
A wild, blood-curdling yell—
A ghastly object flashing by—
Then silence—and a smell!
Did you ever see such a bunch of 
black eyes?
No Wonder it Bored Bill.
Bill had a bill-board. Bill also had a 
board bill. The board bill bored Bill 
so that Bill sold the billboard to pay 
his board bill. Sor after Bill sold his 
billboard to pay his board bill, the 
board bill no longer bored Bill.—Yale 
Expositor.
