Parade
There will be a parade on 
Saturday at 1-30 p.m. before 
the Allegheny game. March­
ers will be led from Morewood 
Gardens by the Cheerleaders 
and Pipers.
Volume 65 - Number 4 Wednesday, October 6, 1965
Three Guests 
To Participate 
At Inaugural
The presidents of three of this 
country's most respected institu­
tions of higher learning will 
honor Dr. H. Guyford Stever by 
participation in his inauguration as 
fifth President of Carnegie Tech 
on October 21 and 22.
The inaugural ceremonies have 
been scheduled to coincide with 
Carnegie Tech’s annual Homecom­
ing Weekend so that alumni will 
have the opportunity to return to 
campus for the events.
The distinguished participants 
will be Dr. Vincent MacDowell 
Barnett, Jr., president of Colgate 
University; Dr. Lee A. DuBridge, 
president of California Institute 
of Technology; and Dr. Julius 
Adams Stratton, president of Mas­
sachusetts Institute of Technology.
The three will deliver major 
addresses on Thursday as part of 
an all-day academic program. The 
program will begin with an acade­
mic procession of college and uni­
versity presidents from through­
out the United states.
Dr. Stever did his undergrad­
uate study at Colgate, his grad­
uate work at Cal Tech, and serv­
ed for over twenty years on the 
faculty at M.I.T. He came to Car­
negie Tech in February of this 
year succeeding Dr. J. C. Warner 
as president of the institution.
Diggins
7 Frosh Selected
For Queen Contest
Seven freshmen women were selected as Homecoming Queen can­
didates from 44 nominees by the Council of Fraternity Presidents 
and dorm presidents in an election held on October 1.
Homecoming Queen candidat- _______________________________
es are Pam Burgess, painting and 
design; Kay Dryden, psychology;
Barb Hicks, business and social 
studies; Lee Mock, home econo­
mics; Nancy Mosca, home eco­
nomics; Robin Newbold, social 
studies, and Michelle Sklar, psy­
chology.
The 1965 Homecoming Queen 
and her attendants will be chosen 
from the seven candidates by an 
all-male vote on campus. The 
Homecoming Court will be 
crowned on October 22. The eve­
ning will feature a concert by the 
Brothers Four at 8;30 p.m.
Saturday's Homecoming acti­
vities will include a Carnegie 
Tech - Franklin and Marshall 
football game, followed by a vic­
tory dance on campus.
The Fenways will provide mu­
sic for the Tech *Au Go Go dance 
on Saturday night.
Homecoming tickets will go on 
sale soon. Further information 
is available from Bob Glauben- 
ger, Homecoming Committee 
chairman, 621-5919.
TGIF
Friday at 4:30 p.m. 
Music by the ‘Igniters'
Representatives Elected 
To MG Judiciary Council
The election for representatives to the judiciary council of the 
Association of Women (formerly Women's Dormitory Council) was 
held in Morewood Gardens last week.
The representatives are: Margret Lee, B tower; Sue Ward, C 
tower: Alice Wells, D tower; Aika Rhu, E tower; Sue Schneider,
E tower; Betsy White, secretary; and Lyn Dietrich, Fine Arts.
‘A' tower, because it is hon­
orary and comes under a dif­
ferent judicial board is not rep­
resented.
Immediately after the Thanks­
giving holidays, the freshmen re­
presentatives will be elected but 
they will not receive voting rights 
until the second semester.
Dorm Council held its first 
meeting of the semester on Sept­
ember 22.
Pan-Hel's petition for soro­
rity floors to house the female 
students from the Muenster Uni­
versity Choir staying in the dorm 
for the October 5 assembly was 
approved. Pan-Hel was also given 
permission to sell sandwiches 
in the dorm on Sunday nights.
Co-ed volleyball, sponsored by 
Men’s Dorm Council, will begin 
October 12. Anyone interested 
may sign-up on sheets posted in 
the dorm elevators.
A new constitution is being 
drawn up for the Association of 
Women. Under this constitution 
all women students will belong 
to the association and women 
commuters will be given much 
freer use of Morewood facilities. 
Cots will be available for week­
ends for a nominal fee to cover 
linens.
An activities fee of two dol­
lars per semester has been pass­
ed.
Fridayt 4:30p0y
In honor of the inauguration of 
President Stever, the Carnegie 
Tech art department will present 
a special exhibition of faculty work 
in Skibo lounge from Saturday, 
October 9 through Homecoming 
weekend.
Round Robin
Begins Rush
Sorority rushees crowd Skibo
The first sorority Round Robin, 
sponsored by Panhellenic Coun­
cil, took place last Sunday.
Approximately 120 women 
signed up for the scheduled rush 
events. They were divided into 
seven groups and spent fifteen 
minutes talking with members of 
each sorority.
The second Round Robin will be 
held on October 17. Girls will 
need no grade requirements to 
attend this function and atten­
dance will not be compulsory for a 
girl to continue in rush. However, 
by October 24, those Interested
Adler Speaks 
On Education 
At Assembly
Dr. Mortimer J. Adler, di­
rector of the Institute of Philo­
sophical Research and founder 
of the Great Books Foundation 
spoke at the September 28 as­
sembly on “The Meaning of Lib­
eral Education."
He said in his speech that 
schooling in preparation for adult 
learning and adult learning is 
education. Dr. Adler emphasized 
very strongly, the difference be­
tween “schooling" and “educa­
tion." He explained that the only 
reason that one needs liberal 
schooling is so he can go on to 
education.
Youth is a great obstacle in 
gaining an education. Dr. Ad­
ler claimed a child or adolescent 
does not have the experience 
needed in coping with various 
situations. His outlooks are very 
different from those of his par­
ents and will change with age. 
Dr. Adler stated, “There is noth­
ing you can do because of lack 
of age." Schooling is a neces­
sary part of gaining the chance to 
become educated. But Dr. Adler 
did say that the process should 
be speeded up. For the bright 
child only 12 years is needed to 
receive his bachelor of arts de­
gree and perhaps 14 or 15 years 
for the less intelligent. “We 
give our people technical school­
ing but must give them liberal 
schooling for the universities job 
tc be complete."
Dr. Adler also focused upon the 
concept of informal education. 
“No schooling you get will suf­
fice if you don’t take seriously 
the proposition that learning will
Continued to Pag$2
in continuing must have signed 
the Rush List and filed a Soro­
rity Information Card in the dean 
of women’s office.Open House and touring will 
be held on November 7. Women 
will assemble in Skibo ballroom 
at 1 p.m. and visit the sororities 
for 25 minutes. Although there 
will be no grade requirements 
for Open House, attendance will 
be compulsory for everyone who 
wishes to continue formal rush.
Formal rush will begin on 
November 14. Six 45 minute par­
ties will be held in skibo. These 
parties will be open by invita­
tion. On November 15, rushees 
will be invited to attend a maxi­
mum of four 45-minute parties. 
These will be held in Skibo be­
tween from 4;30 to 8;35 p.m.
On November 17, rushees will 
be invited to attend a maximum 
of three one - hour theme par­
ties and on November 19 they will 
be invited to attend a maximum 
of two final parties.
Preferential Bids will be ac­
cepted on November 20.
Drama Dept. 
To Present 
French Farce
The first of this year's main- 
stage drama department produc­
tions, “Hotel Paradiso,” will open 
on October 21.
The play, written by Georges 
Feydean, and Maurice Desval- 
lieres, and directed by Lewis Pao- 
ter will play 10 performances, run­
ning from the October 21 to 30 
with a matinee on Saturday the 
30th. There will be no Sunday per­
formances.
The cast of “Hotel Paradlso* 
Includes Jeff Chandler, Janet Pen­
elope Reed, Penelope Windrist, 
Michael Brown, Louis Simon, Deb­
orah Suss el, Michael Tucker, 
Richard Hughes, Michael Mund, 
and Robert La Porta.
The play is a bedroom farce in 
the highest European tradition, 
Georges Feydean is a comic writ­
er who has been rated second only 
to Motiere in the French TOeatre, 
According to Palter “this type of 
comedy has long been neglected in 
America and has not been valued 
at its full worth.*
Tickets for thf presentation will 
be distributed to students of the 
drama department next Monday 
and to all other students next 
Tuesday, In room 108, FA build­
ing, from 4 to 5 A.M.

---------------------------------------------------

.mMu s c bhe‘4Is4 g4bn ghegh‘ c 'u6,u16rt9 8iy7puR 6,1968
Shaw’s “Devil’s Disciple”
At Pittsburgh Playhouse
George Bernard Shaw’s, ««The Devil’s Disciple,” directed by 
Harold Stone and starring Anthony «‘Scooter” Teague premiers 
today in the Craft Avenue Theater of the Pittsburgh Playhouse. 
The play tells the story of
Dick Dudgeon, a dashing New 
Hampshire rebel of 1777, whose 
scorn for the pious hypocrisy 
of his fellow citizens leads to 
his insistent claims of allegiance 
with the Devil. His strange be­
havior may be blamed on the 
self-righteous egoism of his gra­
nite-like mother.
Into the town come British 
troops who decide to hang the 
local minister to set an example 
for the Yankee upstarts. They 
go to the Reverend Anthony An­
derson’s house, where Dudgeon 
happens to be. He insists on tak­
ing the minister’s place, thus 
seemingly belying his evil alle­
giance.
Throughout the rest of the play, 
Dudgeon engages in verbal jousts 
with British authority in the per­
son of General Burgoyne. A nick- 
of-the-time arrival by American 
forces saves him.
In addition to its regular eve­
ning performances, ««The Devils 
Disciple” will be presented in 
four matinees, October 7, 9, 23 
and November 4.
b7,yR0pdy07,1 
F7R ArTrE0,u
Patterns, Carnegie Tech’s an­
nual literary and art magazine, 
is looking for contributions. These 
may be poetry, short stories, short 
plays, line drawings, block prints, 
etchings and photographs. Satires 
and parodies will be accepted.
Contributions should be sent to 
Patterns, Box 402, Campus Mail. 
Additional information may be ob­
tained from Louis Middleman, edi­
tor. 781-2913, or Betsy Fausel, art 
editor, 682-8334.
PITT'Sburgh perfect 
Pizza
FhNg ghS4 8Og N4eKsb4 
N.4bshD Ie8O. ehg4N
DIAL 683-5222 Â rj? *;
VVV 117 8hSDh‘& hKy‘Pa0ACNca
FRATERNITIES, SORORITIES, 
TAKE ADVANTA&E OF SPECIAL 
GROUP RATES.
Tickets for this, and all other 
Act productions, are available 
now at the Playhouse box-office. 
Those who desire information 
on tickets, group rates, or sched­
ules should call 621-4445, or 
write the Pittsburgh Playhouse 
222 Craft Avenue, Pittsburgh, 
Pa. 15213.
SAME Sponsors 
Cruise On Rivers
The Carnegie Tech student post 
of the Society of American Mili­
tary Engineers will hold its ans- 
nual cruise on the Pittsburgh riv­
ers this Sunday. Busses will leave 
at 1 p.m. from the Hunt Library; 
students will return at about 5 
p.m.
There is no charge; dress is 
informal. All Carnegie Tech stu­
dents are invited to attend. In­
terested students may sign up 
in the military department of­
fice in Baker Hill or in the base­
ment of Margaret Morrison. The 
deadline is 4; 30 p.m. today.
New Position Open 
In Student Gov’t.
An assistant treasurer for stu­
dent government is need to assist 
in accounting and enforcing bud­
gets for school activities for the 
fiscal year.
His duties will also include 
meeting with business managers to 
check monthly statements for ac­
counting offices and assisting in the 
yearly audit.
Those interested in filling the 
position should contact David 
Aronovitz, treasurer, 421-0959 or 
write to Skibo 103 in care of the 
treasurer. Letters should include 
the applicant’s name, address, 
class, major and interest in the 
position.
Adler Speaks-
Continued from Page 1 
go on for the rest of your life.” 
This ««learning” that he spoke 
of was not technical learning but 
rather the knowledge one gains 
throughout life's experiences.
The student madrigal choir 
from Muenster University, in 
West Germany entertained at 
yesterday morning’s assembly.
The guest speaker at the next 
student assembly on October 12 
will be Pierre Salinger, former 
press secretary to President 
Kennedy and present senator 
from California.
“A MOVIE THAT YOU SHOULD
Ahg AsbbaL —JUDITH CRIST NUI mloo! -on NBC-TV “TODAY” show
"EVERYTHING YOU 
HOPE FOR BUT 
RARELY FIND IN
A FILMI,,_/Vevv Yorkn i ilivi . Friday ti4:30r
josepH e.Levme m*»»
NOW SHOWING
narliiMi
a|NiwrrfwlwwlIFr ¦»>!— pitti*... W™
¦UNfebf adelt«...with
FEATURE TIMES:
MON. THRU FRI. 5:45 - 8:00 - 10:10 
SAT. Ah'D SUN. 1:30 - 3:30 - 5:45 - 
8:00 - 10:10
Put me in
COACH
G8OUDD e4hDDG Ihs‘ Ie8O‘& 
'sgn gn4N4
2 Ir,y N30RylrouR1
2 b7Rp0, gR7d1uR1
2 Nd11u: Nd0y1
2 !tC7R6 NWuryuR1
2 h13uR Nario1
2 bryra0,r NWuryuR1
. -.OLsartç*'*• « wM.
LL
2 &d,ir, euu6 g7Hi7ry1
2 har, .r0,u NWuryuR1
2 bR0iouyuuR ba7y3u1
2 eu01 7C ‘uW nr|u, g0u1
(Soaci| ijnns?
5823 Forbes Avenue Phone JA 1-7600, Squirrel Hill
MARVIN JOSEPHS, HEAD COACH
8.4‘ gO4NV I gnOeNV 4K4‘s‘IN gOs w
Men’s Dorm Council Desires 
To Focus On Communication
This year, Men’s Dormitory Council is focusing on a policy of 
action and communication. According to council president, Dave 
Ritchie, senior, physics, it will attempt to become an effective and 
influential force on the Carnegie Tech campus.
Ritchie hopes to bring the coun­
cil into an active role in the 
campus community by creating 
a sense of awareness in Carne­
gie Tech’s dormitory men. Rit­
chie feels that previously there 
was an incorrigible gulf in the 
communications of the council 
and the men. He hopes that such a 
gulf won’t exist this year.
To remedy this situation, 
Men’s Dormitory Council will re­
vise its constitution. It has esta­
blished a dorm council bulletin 
board in the lobby of Donner Hall 
and steps have been taken to 
purchase signs which will inform 
dorm men of the periodic council 
meetings in Scobell.
In addition, the council has 
placed a greater emphasis on the 
intramural program; expanded 
the dormitory social program; 
and planned several improve­
ments in the dormitories them­
selves.
EE Student Wins 
Prize For Essay
Paxton Marshall, senior elec­
trical engineering, has been 
awarded first prize in the nation­
al engineering fraternity’s Great­
er Interest in Government contest 
for his Tau Beta Pi pledge essay.
His paper, titled “Democrats 
and Republicans: The Two Party 
System in the United States,” also 
took second prize in the over-all 
essay contest.
Marshall is the pledge trainer 
and steward of Sigma Alpha Epsi­
lon and treasurer of Eta Kappa 
Nu. A National Merit Scholar, 
Pax has been on Dean’s List five 
out of his six semesters at Car­
negie Tech. He plans to attend 
graduate school.
•DuPont Reg. T.M.
6the mosti9
luxurious Hopsack blazer of 55% Dacron* polyester/45% Wool, 
that holds its shape sensationally. Style that's right— 
at a right price...only
Nyd6u,y1 &0|0107, 
!R77oC0ua6 s,6d1yR0u1 
f¦w» h|u,du 7C y3u hluR0ir1 
‘uW G7Ro fw9 ‘uW G7Ro
17801915

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 6, 1965 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Page 3
FARAH MANUFACTURING COMPANY. INC. EL PASO. TEXAS
This Week In Pittsburgh________by Ken Lutz__________________
THE HOUSE OFCHIANC
Pittsburgh's Newest 
Chinese Restaurant
NHui0ra Dd,i3 VVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVVV>—i r,6 F
Individual and Family Dinnars Spacialimd 
Midnight Snack: Wonton Soup and Egg Roll
braa *¦fc—¦f—
Located in the Heart of Oakland at3802 Forbes Avnut
fight it.
THE CRUMBLING WALLSb8FF44 n8ON4
EVERY FRIDAY 9-1:00 A.M.
STARTS OCTOBER 1 AT THE Ddy3uRr, O,0|uR10yt 0 bu,yuR 
*—f— F7Rpu1 h|uV
8.4‘ g8 hDD g4bn .48.D4
Lectures
Gillespie Lectures in Philosophy, ‘«The Quantification of Tra­
gedy: Herman Kahn,” by Albert William Levi, Professor of Phi­
losophy, Washington University. Chatham College Music Center 
Auditorium. Tonight at 8 p.m.
?««The Truth About Flying Saucers.*' Earl J. Neff. Carnegie 
Music Hall, October 8 at 8 p.m.
Exhibits
Impressions of Israel. Recent paintings by Charlotte Rosenberg.
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Saturday, 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. Sunday. 
Arts and Crafts Center. Fifth and shady Avenues. Through October 
24.
One-man show: Dorothy Weatherford, Pittsburgh Plan for Art, 
1251 N. Negley Ave. Through October 13.
One-man show; Thomas J. Lacey. Art Gallery, 26th floor, Ca­
thedral of Learning 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday. Through 
October 15.
New paintings and sculpture by Jerry L. Capian and Joseph C. 
Nicholson. Falk Hall Foyer, Chatham College.
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Saturday, 2 to 5 p.m.
Sunday. Through October 24.
Music and Drama
?American Conservatory Theatre. «‘The Devil's Disciple," Oc­
tober 6, 7 (matinee and evening), 8, 9 (formal opening), 10, 12. 
««Six Characters in Search of an Author," October 6, 7, 8. “In 
White America," October 9, 10, 12. Curtain at 8;30 p.m., Sunday 
at 7:30 p.m., matinee at 2;30 p.m.
?«‘The Subject Was Roses.” Carnegie Music Hall. October 9 
at 8;30 p.m. Tickets at Pitt Book Center.
?Mantovani and His Orchestra. Carnegie Music Hall. Tonight at 
8;30 p.m. Music Guild of Pittsburgh, 391-1414 for ticket information.
?George Gobel ««Show of Stars" for Syria Temple Charities. Oc­
tober 9, 8 p.m. Civic Arena.
Duquesne University Faculty Concert. Rockwell Hall, Forbes Ave. 
and Shingiss Street. October 10 at 8;30 p.m.
Sports
?Football. Carnegie Tech vs. Allegheny. October 9 at 1;30. Tech 
Field.
?Admission Charged
L.C. Lustenberger, ’26 Grad., 
President Of W.T. Grant Co.
E&S Faculty 
Adds Members
Carnegie Tech announced the 
appointments of one associate head 
and two associate professors in the 
College of Engineering and 
Science.
Richard A. Moore will serve as 
associate head and associate pro­
fessor in the department of mathe­
matics. The new associate profes­
sors are Robert W. Floyd, com­
puter sciences, and Abraham Ginz­
burg, mathematics and computa­
tion.
Floyd received his bachelor of 
arts and sciences degrees from 
the University of Chicago. He was 
formerly a mathematician with the 
Computer Associates, Inc.
Dr. Ginzburg is a native of Nowo- 
grodek, Poland. He received his 
bachelors, masters and doctorate 
degrees from Israel Institute of 
Technology in Haifa. At Carnegie 
Tech, Dr. Ginzburg will serve as a 
visiting associate professor of 
mathematics and computation. He 
is a member of the faculty in the 
department of mathematics at Is­
rael Institute of Technology.
Dr. Moore joined the Carnegie 
Tech faculty in 1956 and was ap­
pointed associate professor in 
1960. He received his bachelors, 
masters, and doctorate degrees 
from Washington University.
IM
Dil
NDhbSNV 'hDS Nn8egN9 ™4h‘N 
with
The president of W. T. Grant Company, the nationally known chain 
store is Louis C. Lustenberger.
A native Pittsburgher, Lustenberger attended Carnegie Tech from 
1922 to 1926 and earned his B.S.
Upon graduation, Lustenberger 
went to work as a trainee and 
salesman for the White Motor 
Company of Cleveland. In 1927he 
left the job to accept a position 
as sales engineer for American 
Rolling Mill Company. He moved 
to New York City in 1929 to work 
for W. T. Grant as an assistant 
in the Standards Department.
Three years later he accept­
ed a position at Montgomery 
Ward & Co. of Chicago as as­
sistant in their Operating De-
Get Eaton’s Corrasable Bond Typewriter Paper.
Mistakes don’t show. A mis-key completely disappears 
from the special surface. An ordinary pencil eraser lets 
you erase without a trace. So why use ordinary paper? 
Eaton’s Corrasable is available in light, medium, heavy 
weights and Onion Skin. In 100-sheet packets and 500- 
sheet ream boxes. At Stationery Departments.
Farah Slacks’ neat good looks 
are permanently pressed in ... 
another reason why they get 
more appreciative looks. 
And they wear longer.
Concert Series 
To Resume
The first of the Carnegie Con­
cert series will be presented on 
Saturday, 8:30 p.m. in Carnegie 
Lecture Hall.
Featured will be works by Joure 
Ives and Beethoven, to be per­
formed by special guest artists. 
Joseph Knitzer, violinist, is a 
professor of violin and choral mis- 
1c at the University of Michigan. 
Arthur Loesser, pianist, is head of 
the piano department at Cleveland 
Institute of Music.
Louis C. Lustenberger 
President, W. T. Grant Co.
partment. He advanced rapidly 
and by 1940 was a vice president 
and member of the board of di­
rectors.
He left Montgomery Ward in 
1940 and returned to W. T. Grant 
as vice president.
Lustenberger is a 1963 Carne­
gie Tech Merit Award Winner and 
a Highlander Chieftain. He is list­
ed in Volume 33 of Who’s Who in 
America.
Only Eaton makes Corrasable.
EATON PAPER CORPORATION. PITTSFIELD. MASSACHUSETTS

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Wednesday, October 6, 1965 
Editorial
By Whose Consent?
The revised constitution for student government is still pending action 
on the floor of Student Congress. In its editorial statement last week, 
the Tartan advocated the rejection of this constitution primarily on the 
grounds that it provides for the incorporation of far too much executive 
power into the legislative branch of government, and for the delegation of 
executive responsibilities to officers in the legislative branch. The 
system of checks-and-balances has been virtually ignored, a step which 
will result in the concentration of power in a few individual's hands.
Not only, however, is the organizational framework which the 
revised constitution outlines unsatisfactory, the procedure which the 
chairman of Student Congress has established for its adoption is not 
democratic, nor is it realistic, and cannot, therefore, be considered 
as valid.
The chairman himself wrote, in the early part of this summer, a 
preliminary version of the constitution, copies of which were sent to 
approximately ninety students, including members of student govern­
ment, officers of certain student organizations, etc. Each of these 
students was requested to criticize the constitution and return their 
criticisms to the chairman by the first week of August. In light of the 
opinions expressed in these criticisms, the chairman rewrote the con­
stitution, and presented it in its new form to the congress for adoption, 
later including some minor amendments suggested by the Executive 
Council.
It was decided by the chairman that passage of the constitution by 
Congress, with subsequent approval of the Executive Council, would serve 
to put the constitution into effect.
There was no comprehensive investigation into, nor careful analysis of, 
the desires and opinions concerning the nature of student government 
of the general student body, over which the constitution is to have au­
thority. The only opinions sought were those of a select few, the present 
members of student government. Moreover, there is no provision in 
the revised constitution for a referendum or ratification ballot, whereby 
all the students could be given a direct voice in this matter, a voice to 
which they, most assuredly, have a right. The present constitution was 
approved (in this fashion.)
A constitution adopted under this procedure cannot be valid, for it 
derives its authority not from the consent of the governed, but rather, 
from the consent of the governing.
Furtheremore, the motion for adoption which is now on the floor of 
Congress provides that the present officers of student government, who 
were elected under the constitution now in effect, be carried over en 
masse under the new government, including those individuals whose 
offices would no longer exist under the revised constitution. An example 
of this is the office of the treasurer of student government. The Tartan 
pointed out last week that under the revised constitution this office is to 
be eliminated, and the executive responsibilities attached to it are to be 
delegated to the Finance Committee of Student Congress, the legislative 
branch. The motion for adoption, however, provides that the present 
treasurer will remain in that office, even though the office does not exist.
There is little point to establishing a new government if it is to be 
run under the organizational frame of the old.
The motion also calls for establishment of a special subcommittee 
under the Rules Committee of Student Congress to establish “a com­
pletely revised constitution to satisfy the present, and in so far as 
possible, future needs of the Student Body.” Such a constitution would be 
adopted by the spring of this academic year. The chairman of congress, 
maintains that this procedure will take into account the objections pre- 
presented above. But no purpose can be served by establishing a new 
constitution now, when that constitution will be replaced again in less 
than one academic year. It would certainly make more sense to establish 
a constitutional subcommittee under the present government, and produce 
a new government which eliminates the objectionable features existing 
in the present constitution, and will avoid entirely those of the revised 
document.
The Tartan emphasizes that there is little point and no purpose served 
in adopting a new government which abrogates the system of checks- 
and-balances, which lacks validity in that it does not derive its authority 
from the consent of the governed, and which maintains vestiges of that 
very governmental framework it is designed to replace.
This document must not be adopted. The Tartan urges the members of 
student government to reject it.
Affairs Council To Feature 
British Parliament Member
The Honorable Albert Edward Patrick Duffy, Labour member of 
the British Parliament and Chairman of the Labour Party’s Economic 
Affairs and Finance Group will be the guest speaker at the first meeting 
of the World Affairs Council of Pittsburgh and the Five O'clock Forum. 
The meeting will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m. in the Wherrett Room, 
Skibo.
With the outbreak of World War 
n, Duggy Joined the Royal Navy 
as an officer, later qualified as a 
pilot In the Fleet Air Arm and 
served with the Home Fleet and 
on Atlantic Convoys. His laat post­
ing was as Commanding Officer of 
the Naval School of Air Radar in 
1946. After the war, Duffy contin­
ued his studies at the London School 
of Economics. He entered Parlia­
ment in 1963.
He has lectured in the Federal 
Republic of Germany and the United 
States, has contributed articles to 
British and American periodicals, 
and has appeared on radio and tele­
vision broadcasts.
He is on an official trip to the 
United States, and informed 
sources feel that “his remarks on 
the current economic situation in 
England and Europe and his fore­
casts should be both authoritative 
and informative.* He will speak on
Student Gov’t Officers 
Outline Projected Aims
The following is a statement prepared by Tom Glassberg, presi­
dent of the Executive Council of Student Government, and Richard 
Elder, chairman of Student Congress. It contains an outline of the pre­
sent state of student government and defines their goals and objectives 
for the student government. — ed.
Student Government has now reorganized and regrouped in preparation 
for a new year. It has now determined some definite directions and 
methods which will be used this year, but it has not formed the efficient 
perfect government that too many expect it to be. Because of the unique 
nature of student governments and of Carnegie Tech in particular, the 
Carnegie Tech student Government defies neat analogies to other govern­
ments and other situations.
There are three branches in the Carnegie Tech Government. The 
Student Congress provides the legislative functions for the entire student 
body. The Executive Council gathers the heads of the major governing 
bodies and representatives of the general student associations so that 
executive decisions may be initiated and problems resolved among ex­
perienced student representatives. The Judicial functions of the govern­
ment are invested in a system of courts.
In the past there has been a problem with the two-headed nature of the 
government whereby there was a difficulty in deciding with whom rested 
the responsibility of representing the students and the government. The 
constitution’s vagueness has proved to be a frustrating complication and 
hinderance to effective government. The apathy which has plagued general 
activities has also proven to be the albatross allowing the attacks on 
student government to smear government actions.
The immediate solutions to these cannot resolve the problems com­
pletely, but this student government will not permit time to solve 
problems which time has only confounded in the past. Its immediate 
solution is a new constitution.
The new constitution proposes an all-school election to resolve the 
dual nature of government head by electing one president of the student 
body. If the government can prove itself and its effectiveness during the 
year, this election should also resolve some of the apathy in student 
interest. Finally the form, additions, and changes of the constitution 
should provide a constitution without the ambiguities and vagueness 
which could very possibly thwart efficient additions of the government 
this year. It provides, however, still the same three-branch system 
and much of the same provisions of the old constitution.
No member of the Executive Council (which has passed the consti­
tution to the Congress with its compliments) nor the Student Congress 
itself is satisfied with the new constitution. It is not perfect nor is it 
sure that it could even represent the student body or serve its needs 
as the government should do. For this reason, the constitution stands 
before the Student Congress for passage on the condition that it is ef­
fective only until the special Constitution Sub-committee should draft a 
completely revised constitution or in any case, no further than May, 
1966. But, with these conditions, we feel that the old constitution should 
be replaced now and that further delay will prove only to promote apathy.
Besides this constitution, ExecutiveCouncil will be considering a com­
plete review of the present court system and a tighter control and under­
standing of all financial aspects of student activities.
It will consider more effective action on the I. M. lights, a letter to the 
administration concerning Homecoming, and a better system of Inter­
change of male and female participants in the food contract plan. These, 
with considerations of an all-school activities fee and a Senior Week dur­
ing graduation, should prove Executive Council’s effectiveness and pos­
sibilities throughout the year.
Executive Council has not lost any power in the new constitution and 
as such maintains its veto on Congress authority of appointment. The 
proposed legislation would only clarify the present ambiguity of au­
thority. The president of Student Congress would represent Carnegie 
Tech at all functions outside of the school and in matters concerning 
Congress and the general production of Carnegie Tech. The Executive 
Council would handle the problems of all its member groups and its 
chairman would be responsible to the administration for issues per­
tinent to any one or more of them.
There are other proposals which would solve the problems and we 
recognize that they may be better. One of these would be an all-school 
election for Executive Council chairman.
Anyone with such solutions is not only welcome but strongly urged to 
participate in the complete revision, but time will not solve the problems 
alone. This constitution is the start we very urgently need.
Evan M. Melhado
Richard G. Sextro Editor-in-Chief Sue Attinson
Business Manager Desk Editor
News Editor.................................................................Candy Etkin
Assistant Desk Editor........................................Carol S. Guber
Assistant News Editor.................................................Liz Seley
Sports Editor........................................................¿Michael Vargo
Layout Editor...................................................David P. Rodgers
Photography Editor......................................................Fred Maize
National Advertising Manager.............................Diane Hayduk
Local Advertising Manager......................Edward A. Ketterer
Secretarial Editor........................................................Judy Birken
Circulation Manager....................................................Marty Kline
’Haodlines: Esther Bushman, Gretchen EWI*f
Typists: Dion* Cushing, Linda Green, Leslie Franca, Susanna Kuni, 
Chary I McCann, Koto Stader, Ruth Thompson, Sua Walls, 
Lois ZodikoH
Annual Subscription Rata: $2.50 
Sacond Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Represented for national advartising by National Advertising Inc.
Offices: Skibo, Room 50, Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
15213. Published weekly during the school year except 
during holidays and examination periods by the students 
of Carnegie Institute of Technology.
'Britain and Europe-Economic 
Prospects.*
Students and faculty are cor­
dially Invited to attend.
hbg
.Ru1u,y1 n7apR77o
Hal Halbrook. will present his 
famous “Mark Twain Tonight" at 
the Pittsburgh Playhouse, on Oc­
tober 11, at 8:30 p.m. in the Craft 
Avenue Theatre.
Student tickets are available at 
the box office for $1.50, but for 
this performance there will be no 
reserved seats. Student tickets are 
available for all ACT productions.
This production will be pre­
sented by the American Conserva­
tory Theatre now in residence at 
the Playhouse.
fceactenA Ti/iitc
NU,1 .Ru1V eupdyy1 
Nyd6u,y bR0y0i01l
Dear Name Withheld,
I was very pleasantly surprised 
to find that S’n’S has finally become 
important enough on the campus to 
outrage a student, much less be 
classified as an elite society free­
zing out throngs of potential mem­
bers. This is flattering, but, in 
fact, not very true.
Last year the club defrosted long 
enough to quadruple its member­
ship. We would have gladly wel­
comed more members except there 
were no more applicants. As one 
members of last year’s cast put 
it, S’n’S is not a closed society, 
it is a close society. It encom­
passes a cross section of the 
campus, all joining together to par­
ticipate in an activity quite diffe­
rent from their choice of study.
You seem to have some rather 
pointed criticism of the Board of 
Directors of the club. In your in­
terest I would like to clarify a 
few points. Each year, on the 
closing night of the current S’n’S 
production, a new board of di­
rectors is announced. The board 
consists of the president, vice 
president, business manager, sec­
retary, publicity director and rep­
resentatives of the various col­
leges. These are chosen from the 
cast and crew of the current pro­
duction.
The immediate function of the 
S’n’S board is to select a work­
able script for the following year’s 
show. An open call for scripts is 
put out and the board selects the 
one which shows the most poten­
tial for becoming the next year’s 
show.
Contrary to what you may think, 
the board does not cast the show. 
Casting is done solely by the di­
rector, with the assistance of the 
musical director and the authors. 
The show is not pre-cast before 
the auditions are held. Every per­
son wishing to perform In S’n’S 
must audition. This includes (of
Continued to Page 6
N,UN hdy37R eu1H7,61 
g7 P‘rlu '0y33ua6U
In the spring of 1964 a bulletin 
was circulated around the campus 
by the Scotch n’ Soda Club asking 
for ideas; scenarios or scripts for 
their 1965 production. With a few 
ideas in scenario form, I took my 
place in line (there were six others 
ahead of me) and when my turn 
came I presented my idea to the 
Scotch n’ Soda board. My story 
outline was viewed in terms of the 
competition, and the show which 
later became “Whatserface* was 
chosen. I was not a member of any 
•in crowd*or “elite* group. I was 
merely a student, like yourself, 
with a great desire to take part in 
the S n’ S activities.
The following year auditions 
were held, not by the entire board 
but by the director, the musical 
director, the faculty advisor (Jewel 
Walker), Stephan Schwartz the 
composer (how“in” could he be? 
He was a freshman) and myself. 
We did not cast the show as a 
“stepping stone to Broadway.” 
(Audltionees for Broadway mus­
icals, incidentally, are usually al­
lowed tijne to sing only 8 bars of 
a given number, and little if any 
chance to read for a role.) Our 
auditions ran for four days, and 
every person who stepped onto the 
stage was allowed to sing one or 
two songs, read for a role and/ 
or work with the choreographer. 
If they had not come prepared, we 
had lyrics to popular songs writ­
ten out for them-and some even 
sang «Happy Birthday*—just so we 
could hear their voices.
The same day that the auditions 
were held, people who were not in­
terested in the performing end of 
the show signed up for backstage
Continued to Page 5

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 6, 1965 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Page 5
‘rydRu 8C g3u O,0|uR10yt
MMCC Study Of Woman’s Role
Focuses On Class Of 1968
Margaret Morrison College is sponsoring a study of woman’s role outlook. Focused on the MMCC 
Class of 1968, it will explore changes in attitudes; aspirations; sex role conception; and life plans in work, 
education and family life.
The program was begun in early September 1964 when 183 item-questionnaires were distributed to 188 
incoming MMCC freshmen. These questionnaires broached such topics asj job holding after college; friends; 
dating regularity; high school education; parental salary, education, profession, and community activity; 
marital and educational plans; and preferential personal goals. Similar surveys were distributed this 
semester.
In the spring, a representa­
tive sample of the class was 
scheduled for interviews. Ac­
cording to Dr. Shirley Angrist, 
Carnegie Tech assistant profes­
sor who is conducting the ’role 
outlook’ study, these interviews 
covered a wide range of topics 
and were held so that she might 
get to know the students on an 
individual basis.
During these next three years, 
information for the study will be 
gathered in the same manner. 
Students will receive revised 
questionnaires in the fall and in­
terviews in the spring. No post­
college follow-up plan has been 
formulated as yet, but Dr. An­
grist has been surveying alumnae 
to note differences in response.
Although Margaret Morrison 
students have had the option not 
to participate in the survey, Dr. 
Angrist cites these as typical 
responses to the questionnaire; 
“I’m very interested in this 
project ... I found the ques­
tions on working very interest­
ing. I hadn’t thought about that 
before,” and “I enjoyed this.
I didn’t realize how much think­
ing I’ve done on these things; 
about work, getting married, 
children. It’s interesting to me to 
talk about this.”
It will be several years before, 
a complete analysis is made of 
the survey information but this 
descriptive data on the Class of 
1968 was released soon after 
the first questionnaire;
N,UN hdy37R eu1H7,61 
g7 P‘rlu '0y33ua6U
Continued from Page 4
Jobs (costumes, lights, sets, etc.). 
With very very few exceptions, 
everyone who signed up or au­
ditioned took some part in the show.
There were twelve (count them— 
12) major roles in “Whatserface* 
—and these leads were given to 
those whose auditions proved them 
to be the most capable of handling 
the roles. Our chorus was made up 
of 20 students who were the back­
bone of the show. They were not In 
the background. TTiey were on stage 
so often, and in so many different 
roles, that they frequently had 
trouble due to an overabundance of 
costume changes. Most of these 
people (Just as myself) had never 
been Involved with S n* S before. 
Ask them if they were slighted by 
the size of their parts. They haven’t 
had a good laugh in a few weeks.
The last question in your let­
ter was “Why not make this year’s 
S n’ S an original musical com­
edy?* How carefully do you look 
into things before you ask ques­
tions? Scotch n’ Soda was this 
year, has been, and will continue 
to be an original musical, (Or Is 
it that you’re challenging my orig­
inality??)
So you see, name withheld, 
Scotch n’ Soda is open to anyone 
who is sincerely Interested. We do 
have an «honor system.* We are 
all honored to have the opportunity 
to get together and put on a wing- 
ding musical every year.
It’s not too late for you to Join 
us. After all— we still don’t know 
your name.
Iris Ratner 
Author Sn’S ’65 
P.S. Next semester, Instead of 
writing bitter letters— why not 
put the same energy into writing 
a show???
Participating StudentsFather’s Education N %
MajorN%Grad, or Prof. school 50 26.9 
College degree 46 24.7
Biological2211.7Some college 29 15.6
sciencesHigh School 38 20.4
Business &3619.1Some high school 14 7.5
social studiesGrade School 3 1.6
Humanities5227.7Some grade school 6 3.2
Home economics4322.9
Natural sciences3518.6Mother’s Education N % 
Grad or professional 20 10.8
188 100.0College degree 42 22.6
Some college 47 25.3
Religious AffiliationN %High school 58 31.2
Based on Mother’s ReligionSome high school 15 8.1
Protestant6434.0Grade school 4 2.8
Catholic4926.1
Jewish6735.6Mother’s Work History N %
Other84.3Working now, full-time 34 18.3 
Working now, part-time 24 12.9
Father’s OccupationN%Worked previously, not
Academic professional4523.9now 39 21.0
Other professional52.7Has not worked in stu­
Se m i-prof ess lonal115.9dent’s lifetime 89 47.8
Officials, pro­
prietors8444.7t----
Clerical, sales, tech­
nical2211.7gdR,chR7d,6 s,C7
Skilled115.9The campus radio station WRCT
Semi-skilled105.3has indicated that it intends to 
carry the hourly turn-around in­
IncomeN%formation currently available from
Less than $3,00021.2the Computation Center.
3,000-5,000116.8Current plans are to broadcast
5,000-7,0002414.Pthe information on the hour and
7,500-10,0002113.0half-hour. The Computation Cen­
10,000-15,0003421.0ter appreciates WRCT’s prec­
15,000-20,0002616.0edent-setting action in this regard:
20,000-30,0002113.0“We believe it to be a first—both
30,000 and over2314.2for the radio station and the Com­
putation Center.*
by Emily HillThe Search 
For Understanding
Vision Of A Nation
Emily Hill is a political 
science major at Chatham. As 
part of a reciprical agreement, 
her column, which appears on a 
weekly basis in the Chatham 
Arrow, will be featured on occa­
sion in place of James Pane- 
pinto’s “The Search for Under­
standing.” panepinto’s column 
will be published in the Arrow. 
—ed.
It has been said that the vision 
of a nation will determine its gene­
ral direction. The vision of a nation 
is the aggregate of goals set within 
the framework of the society's 
values. It is a national tragedy 
to confuse intermediate goals with 
ultimate ends. These ultimate ends 
are admittedly beyond our reach 
and must be spoken of in terms of 
partial achieven^nt. But we must 
not allow an Intermediate objec­
tive to cloud our vision.
The criteria for choice of al­
ternatives to action must be our 
ultimate ends and not our half- 
way-mark goals. Neither can we 
be satisfied with achievement of 
the Intermediate goals. They 
should serve only as inspiration 
to spur us on to greater achieve­
ments.
The confusion of intermediate 
ends with ultimate ends can be ap­
plied specifically to a commonly 
held value of our times; equality 
before the law. The current issue 
that is the result of this value is 
the Civil Rights Movement.
A State owes its citizen equality 
before the law but this equality is 
an intermediate end. It is to serve
as a means to achieving fraternity, 
which should ultimately be pur­
sued.
The nation has made great steps 
toward equality. But as we ap­
proach this intermediate end, we 
must not delve in self-flattery, 
but turn our efforts to the reali­
zation of the Brotherhood. We must 
not take any course Qf action that 
may speed us to the achievement of 
equality but, at the same time, 
may create obstacles to the crea­
tion of fraternity. Our criteria for 
choice of action should be this 
creation of the Brotherhood, not 
equality before the law.
The irony is that there can be 
no Brotherhood without equality, 
people can only act brotherly to 
their equals. But equality is a poor 
substitute for fraternity. The Bro­
therhood has high priority. Equal­
ity must take second place.
The confusion of the interme­
diate end, equality, and the final 
end, fraternity, is obvious in many 
of the activities of the Civil Rights 
Movement. In an effort to shorten 
the road to equality, some civil 
rights leaders have chosen cour­
ses of action seemingly without 
consideration for the consequen­
ces they will have on the move­
ment toward the Brotherhood.
. The Civil Rights Movement must 
be willing to take an occasional 
setback on the low priority end In 
order to gain ground on the high 
priority end. We must not as­
sign priority on the basis of what is 
current, but rather on the basis of 
what is crucial. Equality is cur 
rent. Fraternity is crucial.
Troika0^ John Day
Don Carter 
David Henderson
14b And The Liberals
There is now a movement in 
Congress to repeal a bill which 
guarantees certain rights of the in­
dividual worker. The attempt, if 
successful, will effectively destroy 
his right of free choice in his bar­
gaining relations with his em­
ployer. The defeat of this attempt 
is a cause worthy of liberalism’s 
highest effort.
Liberalism has traditionally ab­
rogated to itself the defense of 
the rights of the individual and the 
minority. Witness Selma, Alaba­
ma, and a hundred other southern 
cities where campus liberals have 
flocked to demand a voice for the 
Negro minority. Or Washington 
where congressional liberals pro­
duced the celebrated voting rights 
bill, and liberal administration in 
endless anti-trust suits protects 
the individual against big business.
Are the liberals now rising to 
preserve the right of the indivi­
dual laborer? Hardly. These 
same liberals, who so valiantly 
championed the minority’s right 
to a voice in the affairs of Selma, 
now are arrayed against 14 (b) 
to deny the minority’s right to 
even remain in the workshop. 
These same liberals who defended 
the Individual against big business 
now abandon him to a union which 
is itself big business. The self- 
appointed champion of the indivi­
dual now turns on one of his most 
basic rights, that of earning his 
living in the way and place he 
chooses.
ed their contradiction of basic 
policy by arguing that non-union
workers, the socalledfree-riders, 
will get benefits earned by the 
unions without paying fees dues. 
But actually the minority worker 
is a forced rider rather than 
a free-rider—forced by the ma­
jority rule principle of the Wag­
ner Act to accept union contract 
terms and denied the right to bar­
gain for himself or through his 
own representatives. To get rid 
of the free-rider, unions need on­
ly get Congress to repeal that sec­
tion of the Wagner Act that gives 
them exclusive bargaining rights 
based on majority rule. Unions 
could then bargain for their own 
members.
A great liberal, Justice Bran- 
deis, over 40 years ago had the 
foreknowledge to recognize the 
value of non-compulsory unions; 
“Such a nucleus of unorganized 
labor will check oppression by the 
union as the union checks oppres­
sion by the employer.”
Or is Representative James 
Roosevelt right today when he says 
in a strange anti-thesis of guilt 
by association that since the civil 
rights groups favor repeal, how 
could they possibly be wrong con­
cerning an act that would in any way 
restrict the rights of Americans.
Whatever superficial arguments 
the liberal members of the House 
may give for passing the repeal 
of 14 (b) onto the Senate the 
true reason lies in politics. Or­
ganized labor was firmly in the 
Johnson camp in 1964 producing 
votes and Congressmen for LBJ 
and the president must pay his 
political debt.
ACT Production To Feature 
Janis Young, Tech Graduate
The American Conservatory Theatre’s production of George Bernard 
Shaw’s “The Devil’s Disciple,* opening at the Pittsburgh Playhouse 
today, will feature Janis Young, Carnegie Tech Alumnus, in the role of 
Mrs. Judith Anderson.
Miss Young graduated from Car­
negie Tech in 1959, receiving the 
Apell Award as outstanding actress 
in the drama department.
She began her career in pro­
fessional theater with the San Diego 
Summer Festival. TTiere she ap­
peared in Shakespearian roles un­
der the direction of ACT Artistic 
Director William Ball.
In the fall of 1959 Miss Young 
was in London, on a Fullbright 
grant at the London Academy of 
Music and Dramatic Arts.
Miss Young’s first venture into 
repertory theater came in 1961.
She appeared with the New Rep­
ertory Theatre in New York. Later 
she was in “Under the Milkwood* 
and “Plays for Bleeker Street* 
at the Circle-in-the-Square The­
ater in New York. Earlier this 
year she appeared in Chekhov’s 
•Uncle Vanya* with the Milwaukee 
Repertory Theatre.
Student Awarded 
AIA Scholarship
Robert Charles Burnham, sen­
ior architect, was awarded two 
scholarships for the 1965-66 aca­
demic year by The American In­
stitute of Architects.
The scholarships are a $500 
Wald Scholarship and a $500 Rub- 
erold Scholarship. Presentation 
was arranged by the Institute’s 
Pittsburgh Chapter, president of 
which is Grant Curry, Jr., a Pitts­
burgh architect.
Burnham was selected as a re­
cipient by AIA’s Committee on 
Scholarships, headed by S. Elmer 
Chambers of Syracuse, N.Y. The 
committee awarded a total of 
$53,800 in scholarships
™r,01 G7d,T 
gui3 hadl,d19 g3uryuR NyrR
Her acting experience also in­
cludes two long stints with T.V. 
soap operas.
Since arriving in Pittsburgh with 
the American Conservatory 
Theatre, Miss Young has appeared 
in “Six Characters in Search of 
an Author,* “Antigone,* and “King 
Lear.*
hRi30yuiydRu 4:30p0y
The Museum of Art, Carnegie 
Institute, will present an exhi­
bition of the work of members of 
the faculty of the Carnegie Tech 
architecture department. The 
exhibit, entitled “Buildings by 
Pedagogues,” will be on display in 
the second floor galleries from 
October 5 to November 4.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6 - CARNEGIE TECH TAKT AN - Wednesday, October 6,1965
- v f y * ' "i v st ¦ ' K *' S?, W . . * -V. <5 ;>* • «>' V ? > .% -. * ** 1$ * L {•*’.'-*:£*xé•»-’*¦** *¦• ?____;*__J’ r y •' • «'___ I • ' ’•**" .HOMIMI.
p4 • : . v -ft * ' “ A MOV ? ; I • • ¦ - # I E T
Tech Announces 
New Appointments
Carnegie Tech has announced 
the appointments of five profes­
sors in the College of Engineer­
ing and Science.
The new professors are Wilfred 
T. Rouleau, mechanical engineer­
ing; AlvinS. Weinstein, mechanical 
engineering; John A. Rayne, phys­
ics; Loren G. Hepler, chemistry; 
and Oswald Wyler, mathematics.
Dr. Rouleau received his bach­
elors, masters and doctorate de­
grees from Carnegie Tech. He 
joined the Carnegie Tech faculty 
as an assistant professor in 1954.
Dr. Weinstein received his bach­
elors degree from the University of 
Michigan and his masters and doc­
torate from Carnegie Tech. He 
joined the Carnegie Tech faculty 
as an assistant professor in 1955.
Dr. Rayne received his bache­
lors degree from the University 
of Sydney (Australia) and his mas­
ters and docterate degrees from 
the University of Chicago. He join­
ed the Carnegie Tech faculty as an 
associate professor in 1963.
Dr. Hepler received his bache­
lors degree from the University 
of Kansas and his doctorate from 
the University of California, Berk­
eley. In 1961 he joined the Car­
negie Tech faculty as an associate 
professor.
Dr. Wyler comes to Carnegie 
Tech from the University of New 
Mexico where he was an associate 
professor of mathematics. Born in 
Scuol, Switzerland. He received a 
diploma in mathematics and phys­
ics and his doctorate degree in 
mathematics from the Swiss Fed­
eral Institute of Technology.
'7lr,U1 badp gur
The Carnegie Tech Woman's 
Club will hold its opening tea to­
day at 3 p.m. in Skibo.
Wives of new faculty mem­
bers and Mrs. H. Guyford Stever, 
wife of the president of Carnegie 
Tech, will be honored.
NU,1 .Ru1V eupdyy1 
Nyd6u,y bR0y0i01l
Continued from Page 4
course) board members and mem­
bers of previous casts. Members 
of the club are aware that pre­
vious participation does not guar­
antee a role in any future produc- 
duction. As in any theatrical or­
ganization, S’n’S casting is done 
with no other standard than that of 
“the best person for the part.“ 
If anyone is not cast, he is always 
more than welcome to join the 
technical staff, which usually out­
numbers (and often includes) the 
cast. So in this capacity anyone 
is welcome to be a member of 
S’n’S. (Note: you can sign up for 
technical work on the days of audi­
tions.)
Last year's production of 
“Whatserface“ had two principle 
roles, ten supporting roles and a 
chorus of eighteen. And I've yet to 
hear any member of the cast com­
plain about not having enough to do 
on stage. If last year's cast was 
dissatisfied, why did they appear en 
masse to rehearse and perform for 
the freshmen during Orientation 
Week?
In closing, I must make some 
mention of the derogatory criti­
cism you made of last year's pro­
duction. No one is more aware that 
Skibo is not Broadway than S'n'S 
itself. For the past few years, at 
least, S'n'S has been trying to 
create a distinctive form that is in­
dividually its own. We hope that 
what we are doing, though perhaps 
not up to a Broadway standard, is 
of more quality than the usual 
“Varsity Show.’' Through trial and 
error we have been discovering 
what sort of things will function for 
us in Skibo and what will not. 
Granted, we have made many mis­
takes.
But we have never sacrificed 
our identity as a student organiza­
tion contrary to whatever opinion 
you may have, S’n’S is entirely 
written, directed, composed, or­
chestrated, performed, designed
Tech Appoints
P.G. Shewmon 
E & S Professor
Paul G. Shewmon has been ap­
pointed as a professor in the de­
partment of metallurgical engi­
neering and principal research 
metallurgical engineer in the 
Metals Research Laboratory.-
Dr. shewmon joined the Car­
negie Tech faculty in 1958. A 
graduate of the University of Illi­
nois, he received his doctorate 
from Carnegie Tech.
In 1959 he was the recipient 
of the Alfred Nobel Prize and in 
1960 he received the Rossiter W. 
Raymond Award for a technical 
paper of outstanding merit by a 
young engineer. Dr. Shewmon is 
also a National Science Founda­
tion Fellow in Germany from 1963- 
4.
The Alfred Noble Prize is spon­
sored by five engineering societies 
and the Raymond Award by the 
American Institute of Mining, 
Metallurgical and petroleum En­
gineers.
Presently he is serving as as­
sociate editor of Transactions of 
the Metallurgical Society of the 
AIME. He is also a member of the 
Review Committee for the Solid 
State Science Division and Physi­
cal Metallurgy Activities of Ar- 
gonne National Laboratory.
He holds memberships in Sig­
ma Xi, Tau Beta Pi, American 
Society for Metals, and the Ameri­
can Institute of Mechanics En­
gineers.
and built by students from all de­
partments of Carnegie Tech.
For the past few years S’n’S 
has been trying to regain the 
students’ interest on the Carnegie 
Tech campus. Your letter, Mr. 
Withheld, seems to prove that our 
efforts have, in a rather indirect 
way, started to have some effect. 
Larry Miller 
President of S’n’S
OAKLAND HABERDASHERY SHOP
Sports woo r, Swoators, Shirts, Suits, Jackets, 
Hats, Slacks, Raincoats, Bolts, Tios, Socks, 
Caps, and Umbrolfas.Ivy Styles In
3614 Forb.i Av..Call (21-1724
COMPLETE ONE STOP
Fri0a0y0u1 F7R5
2 N4eKsb4 » hbb4NN8es4N
8 NhD4N MFs‘h‘bs‘I
8 e4‘ghDN Ms‘NOeh‘b4
hAhg4Oe ehbs‘-
c A8g8ebGbD4 NbehAeD4 ehb4N c
There will be cycle scramble races at Murrysville Race­
way this coming Sunday and every Sunday until Nov. 15. The 
races are open to any and all interested cyclists as well as 
spectators. Individual time trials begin at 12:00 noon, heat 
races at 2:00 and the feature event at 3:00. The track is located 
3 miles east of Murrysville on Rt. 22.
*—fw b4‘ge4 hK4V
bGbD4 N.44& Nn8. n&8geNV
1. Is it tme you’re planning 
to get engaged?
I’m on the brink 
of giving Jane my 
Beethoven sweatshirt.
2. How are you going to guarantee 
security to your family when 
you’re married?
I have a rich aunt, 
you know.
3. What about money for your 
children’s education?
My Uncle Henry is 
very fond of me.
He owns a steel mill.
4. Who’d pay off your mortgage 
if you snould die?
You never can tell. 
Every time I help 
an old man across the 
street I give him 
my name and address 
in case he doesn’t 
have anyone to leave 
his monev to.
5.1 know something that can 
help you meet almost all 
your financial needs.
And be independent, too.
Nothing can do all that.
6. Living Insurance from 
Equitable can. It can even 
give you a lifetime income 
when you retire.
I wonder if Uncle Henry 
has it?
For information about Living Insurance, see The Man from Equitable. 
For career opportunities at Equitable, see your Placement Officer, or 
write: Patrick Scollard, Manpower Development Division.
The Equitable Life Assurance Society of the United States
Home Office: 1285 Ave. of the Americas, New York, N. Y. 10019 QEquitable 19fl5 
An Equal Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 6, 1965 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Page 7
Between Classes or at Study Break . . .
-SCOTTY’S-
OPEN TO SERVE YOU 
24 HOURS A DAY
3918 FORBES AVENUE
. . . and . . .
ROUTE 8, NORTH OF ETNA 7918 PENN AVE.
M & J BARBER SHOP
4 Barbers 
MOVED - NEW MODERN 
QUARTERS - ACROSS ST. 
TO 118 OAKLAND AVE.
• • •
Campus Cleaners
One Block from Morewood Ave.
Open Daily from 8 ajn. to 8 pm.
___________________________
-ARROW-
I. M. Football 
Season Opens
Most of last year's playoff 
'teams, along with a couple of 
surprise competitors, got off to 
strong starts as eleven teams got 
through the first week of I.M. 
football undefeated. Results as of 
Saturday, October 2:
Browns League 
Top-seeded PiKA rolled up a 21- 
1 lead in the second quarter and 
coasted to a 33-4 win over Grad 
Nads “B'\ ATO beat the Dorm 
Trojans, 31-16, by scoring 18 points 
in the last quarter. Kappa Sig sur­
prised TDP by taking a 19-18 
half-time lead, but Tau Delt came 
alive and won 40-22. The Dorm 
Trojans also beat KS, 15-12.
Eagles League 
Delta Upsilon, lead by Jim Huc­
kleberry, won two, 20-10 over the 
Architects and 13-8 over the Civil 
Hammers. Preseason favorite GS- 
IA “D" smothered TDP “B”, 36-
0. SAE handed the Architects their 
second loss, 24-8.
Giants League 
Grad teams opened strong in the 
Giants League. The Grad Nads beat 
the Laundrymen 25-4, then swamp­
ed DTD 40-3. GSIA “F” eased by 
SN “B" 35-1, but had to scramble 
to beat BTP “B” 15-14. BSR also 
won twice, taking SN “B" 23-8
DTD’s Scott Snowden catches 
pass as Dick Londergan of 
BTP *B* moves in 
and edging the Laundrymen 15-14. 
BTP “B” beat DTD 36-15, and the 
Delts rebounded with a 15-4 win 
over the Laundrymen.
Steelers League 
Ray Morrison scored six touch­
downs as the Civil Nails won 47- 
14 over ATO “B". The Nails al­
so beat Sigma Nu 37-15. First- 
seeded Beta Theta Pi thumped 
the E.J.'s, 42-13. PKT lost to the 
E.J.'s 23-20, but posted an 8-1 
win against ATO “B”.
This is one of Arrow's 449 different button-down sport shirts. Be choosy.
Of course, you might very 
well want this one. An 
Arrow Cum Laude American- 
made madras of 100% 
cotton. (Colors bleed after 
first washing.) Has a full 
button-down collar and a 
back collar button. Shoulder 
to waist taper and neat box 
pleat. Handy hanger loop, 
too. “Sanforized”, of course. 
$5.95. Plenty more where 
this came from. Plenty.
Bold New Breed by
Strehler Chosen 
New Assoc. Dean
Allen F. Strehler has been ap­
pointed associate dean of graduate 
studies at Carnegie Tech.
Dr. Strehler also serves as as­
sociate professor of mathematics 
in the College of Engineering and 
Science and is head faculty resi­
dent of the Mudge Graduate House.
He received his bachelors de­
gree from Oberlin College, his 
masters degree from Ohio State 
University, and his doctorate from 
the University of Wisconsin. He 
joined the Carnegie Tech Faculty 
in 1955.
Dr. Strehler has been active 
in many projects on mathematics 
education and curriculum develop­
ment with high schools. Among his 
many publications on mathematics 
and education is the recent ar­
ticle “What's New About the New 
Mathematics?" which appeared in 
the Saturday Review, March 21, 
1964. This article was subsequent­
ly contracted for the broadcast 
by The Voice of America over­
seas.
He holds memberships in Sigma 
Xi and pi Mu Epsilon. He has ser­
ved as chairman of the Allegheny 
Mountain Section of the Mathema­
tical Association of America and 
served as a member of the execu­
tive committee of the Mathematics 
Council of Western Pennsylvania.
Welcome Students
1 HOUR DRY CLEANING
2 HOUR SHIRT LAUNDRY 
FLUFF DRY LAUNDRY
For Service and Quality at 
Reasonable Prices Visit:
From The Middle Of The Bus
by Michael Malakoff
Jackson City Jail
I was in the fairgrounds jail 
two days before they transferred 
me to the Jackson City Jail. That 
morning we walked to the line that 
segregated us from the Negro 
members of the group. Some of us 
crossed that line and the police 
forced us into a corner of the 
room. Later, we walked to the 
Negro side and sat down.
The police came and threatened 
us with clubs but we remained 
seated. TTiey dragged us to the 
other side and removed the Neg­
roes from the room. Shortly, I was 
grabbed from behind with a billy 
stick across my throat, kicked 
and dragged outside. There, with 
several others, I was required to 
stand while the police harrassed 
the group. A paddy wagon came 
and we were put on it. It was about 
110 degrees in the wagon; they 
kept us there about two hours be­
fore transporting us to the city 
jail. They took all our belongings 
and escorted us to the top floor 
in an elevator. With all those 
white police in the elevator, our 
hearts were doing double time. 
They opened a cell door and we 
went in.
The food here was about the 
same: hominy or grits, not both, 
for breakfast; rice and beans for 
lunch and dinner. There were 
pieces of fat that were supposed 
to be meat which I didn't even 
attempt to get down. Several days 
before, I don't believe I could 
have eaten anything lest out of 
necessity, but I soon learned.
We received relatively light 
treatment in comparison to the 
group of 500 students who were 
arrested 10 days before us. They 
were required to run through two 
lines of police who beat them 
severely. The officials’ badges 
were taped to prevent identifica­
tion. As a result of this and other 
things a number of heads were 
split and a lot of pressure was 
put on the police. Finally our law­
yer came. We were told that our
case was being taken out of the 
state court and appealed to the 
Federal Court. If it reached the 
High Court we would be put in the 
custody of a Federal Marshall who 
would most likely release us. For 
this to be acted upon we must wait 
at least a week.
Today 29 more Civil Righters 
were put in the 16 man cell which 
is just a little bigger than the 
dorm room I had last year. Per­
sonal relations, which had been 
strained, became worse after four 
days. The food, tight quarters, and 
lack of freedom were taking their 
toll. As night approached, the heat 
and tensions went down for most of 
us. I talked to one man who was 
from Canada. The House of Com­
mons had called him twice that day 
and had sent a letter to the state 
department to try and insure his 
safety. The Toronto Press sent 
him bail money which he had re­
fused for the time being. What 
one does we all do. If one stays 
in jail, we all stay in jail. Until 
bail money was raised for all of 
us we would all stay in.
This was the fourth Canadian 
I had met. There was also a per­
son there from Australia, a Wis­
consin representive's son, and 
even more amazing, a white man 
from southern Florida. The lights 
will go out in about an hour. We 
sing “We Shall Overcome”. The 
girls down the hall joined in.

---------------------------------------------------

GATE t}oj|fashion!
4Jbsgs‘I FhNns8‘NA8&4ehg4 .esb4N
CO ORDINATES m ^4
b-. DRESSES LEVIS
B . SHIRTS ¦ SWEATERS 
b . COATS ¦ SKIRTS
. SLACKS • CO-ORDINATES 
. ACCESSORIES .
*f- N8Ogn behsI NgV .sggNeOeIn fx
OPEN TUES. AND THURSDAY EVENINGS ’TIL 9 P.M.
Page 8 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Wednesday, October 6, 1965
him»- —¦¦¦miI" CDHDTQ M
Tartan Gridders Drop 2nd; 
Case Running Spells 21-16 Loss
Case — Berry, 10, run (Muel­
ler kick)
Carnegie — Williams, 5, run 
(Bell, pass from Hubka)
Carnegie — Bell, 40, 
from Hubka (Hubka, run) 
Carnegie 
14 First downs 
174 Yards gained rush.
8 Yards lost rushing 
166 Net yards rushing 
8-14 Passes completed 
135 Net yards passing 
52 Yards penalized 
249 Total yardage 
2 Fumbles 
0 Opp. Fumbles rec.
Pete Bair (65), injured later in game, leads interference for Larry Getto (11).
Donn Mueller (34) gives pursuit while unidentified Case player (foreground) sits and waits.
Case Tech’s Rough Riders squeezed out a 21-16 victory over Carnegie Tech’s Tartans last Sat­
urday at Cleveland when a Tartan come-back fell short. After trailing 21-0 in the first half, the Tar­
tans rallied for two touchdowns and were on their way to a third when the final gun sounded.
Case passed only nine times, 
preferring to grind out short 
yardage on the running of half­
back Jim Greenfield and Ray 
Koening (139 and 73 yards rush­
ing, respectively). This “ball 
control” game was painful in the 
second half, when Carnegie need­
ed to get the ball to score.
Early Threat Fizzles 
The Tartans received the open­
ing kickoff and moved inside the 
Case 10 yard line in six plays 
on the running of Jim Williams 
and Dick Merrill. But they fumb­
led the ball away on the 5, and 
after an exchange of punts C ase 
began its methodical ground game 
which took them 50 yards down 
field and over the Tartan goal 
line. Jim Greenfield scored the 
TD from the 10. The center snap 
for the conversion kick sailed 
high and was grabbed by Greg 
Lookabaugh, who picked up good 
blocking and ran the ball over for 
2 points.
The Rough Riders continued to 
pile up a lead by scoring on a 71- 
yard break-away run by Green­
field and again on a 10-yard 
jaunt by John Berry, giving the 
Ohio team a 21-0 lead late in the 
second quarter.
Hubka Starts Throwing 
With little time left in the first 
half and long yardage to go, the 
Tartans finally unveiled their 
very effective passing attack.
From his own 28, quarterback 
Tom Hubka fired the ball to Lar­
ry Getto for a 10-yard pick-up, 
to Bill Coleman for 13 yards, 
and then unloaded a long bomb 
to Nick Lynam, who caught the 
ball on his knees at the Case 
5-yard line and dived desperate­
ly for the goal but was hit hard 
at the two. Two plays later Jim 
Williams banged over for Tech’s 
first score of the afternoon. Hub­
ka found Bell in the end zone 
for a 2-point conversion, mak­
ing the score 21-8 at the half.
The Tartans struck again 
quickly in the 3rd quarter when 
Hubka hurled a 40-yard touch­
down pass to his favorite tar­
get, Diek Bell. Hubka then add­
ed another two-point conversion 
by faking a pass and then scam­
pering for the far side of the 
goal line, making the score 21- 
16.
At this point Case resorted to 
their ball-control tactics, and the 
pace of play slowed down con­
siderably, with defensive units 
dominating the rest of the game. 
The Tartans stayed close, though, 
by stopping the Rough Riders 
three times on fourth-down-and- 
inches-to-go situations.
The last of these defensive 
stands gave the Tartans the ball 
on their own 28-yard line with 18 
seconds to play, and they almost 
pulled it out. Hubka hit Bell 
far downfield with a long pass, 
but two defenders hauled him 
down on the Case 19, and the gun 
sounded before Tech could call 
time.
Larry Getto led the Tech ground 
attack with 73 yards rushing. 
Tom Hubka completed 8 of 14 
passes for 135 yards, and in two 
games now has completed 20 of 
34 for 311 yards with no inter­
ceptions.
Injuries Harmful
Injuries, along with lack of ade­
quate bench strength, certainly 
contributed to Tech's downfall. 
First-strong running backs Dick 
Merrill and Jim Williams both 
sat out the second half due to in­
juries. The Bair brothers, Pete 
and Larry, were both injured, and 
Hubka played the whole game on a 
sore leg.
This Saturday at 1:30 the Tar­
tans open at home against Alle­
gheny.
Score of Periods;
Carnegie — 0 8 8 0—16
Case -- 8 13 0 0—21
Scoring;
Case — Greenfield, 10, run 
(Lookabaugh run)
Case — Greenfield, 71, run 
(kick failed)
pass
Jovial Tech harriers start up Flagstaff Hill.
ITS DISCOTHEQUE AT CARNEGIE THEQUE. 
NO, IT’S DISCO-TECH AT CARNEGIE TECH!
EITHER WAY YOU SPELL IT-
HOMECOMING'65
OCTOBER 22-23
Harriers Dash To 
35 th Straight Win
Carnegie Tech's cross-country team won their 35th consecutive 
meet last Saturday at Schenley Park when they opened the season by 
beating the Jeannette Harriers 26 to 31. The Tartans have not lost 
since the next-to-the-last meet of 1961.
The Jeannette club, which had 
already won three meets this 
year, provided formidable com­
petition for Tech. Harry Burk­
holder, top Tartan runner who 
habitually leads the field, finished 
second behind Jeannette's Jay 
Popsil.
The leading runners and their 
times were: 1 — Jay Popsil 
(J) 23;30, 2 — Harry Burkhold­
er (T) 23;46, 3— Dale Mann 
(J) 23;54, 4— Chris Macosko 
(T) 24:03, 5—Eric Levine (T) 
24;40, 6—Herbert Layman (J) 
24:42, 7 — Bernard Flynn (T) 
24;44, 8—Roger Cairns (T) 24;58,
9~Kem Phillips (T) 25;22, 10- 
William Morrison (J) 25:44, 11— 
David Linter (J) 26:33.
Tech’s home course, the 
Schenley Park course, is 4.2 
miles long. The first five finish­
ers on each team score a point 
total equal to the position in which 
they finished (thus, Popsil scored 
one point for Jeannette, Burk­
holder scored two for Tech, etc.). 
Team with low score wins.
The Tartan runners visit 
Washington and Jefferson today 
and are home against Grove City 
Saturday morning at 11:30 a.m.
