the:
tt
imi 5HEDWLEKIYBYST VOL 
im5H EDWLHKLiLHIWKHYBSHIT
VOLvP1TT5BVNA. NO 25
je-AM C^OMBItAPPUE-D OE-SIGH
¡March 29th, 191 li

---------------------------------------------------

2THE TARTAN
» f 58 « 58 5» 58 1 m
Most nice affairs whether 
it be a Ball or Dinner are 
held at The RittenhouseA 
where every appointment 
is perfect,
m58 58 58 3«58 58 58 58 58 58
SOS?^5;~Oi;~OK~O5;SOS5SOS;SO5!~O5CS0Sii55O55<O
FOR EASTER
Give a Box of Candy |nr—GET IT AT— 0
HALLER’S, 3618 Forbes Avenue. (jj
?0~^S5iOSSCO~XO~5!0~SW>~tfO~S50~SiO“SiC^SiO~55
* B1}£ IH *54**14*•K*4*
<$*4>*&+*14**fit4*.Xi4*«5*fit+S*fitfit4.1
4*?4*4*4*4**4*4*4-
Guns, Cutlery, Athletic Goods, Canoes, Fish­
ing Tackle, a Complete Line of Dog Supplies 
and Medicines.”
W. S. BROWN, 523 Wood St., PITTSBURGH.
1 52929»9292f«8SS »99»O WTywWWwTWTW£ %
PENN AND FIFTH AVENUES. 4.
S ?»A Broad Gauge Store $
having 80 selling departments, in which the ^
live factor of small profits has built a trade ^
reaching millions annually. <|>
Some of the accommodations for the public: ^
Large Waiting Room, *
Writing Desks and Materials, 4,
Retiring Room for Women, ?
A Public Restaurant, ?
Telephones at East Counter, *ÔTelephone Booths, 4,
Room to Check Luggage, 4,
Messenger Service, 4.
Taxicab Calls, 4,
A Sub-Post Office, 4>
A House Physician, £
Hospital on Premises.
^ v* v* y**: y* .?¦ «Te V** w ^;~Oi»^292929292S292K«99295S»9»^292!2S»92
A COMPLETE LINE
Of
Drawing Instruments and Supplies 
Cameras and Photographic Supplies 
Eyes Examined, Glasses Ground, Frames Fitted
Wm.M. Stieren Optical Co.
623 LIBERTY AVENUE
*\*\4-\*\4-S4-%4*\4-\4«VÎ-S4«\*\4*\4-\4*V4-N4-\4-\
*%4-*4‘\4*\4-%4*%4*S4'\4A4*\4*\4‘\4*\4'\4A4A*V**
RANDOLPH & McCLEMENTS
...Floral Experts... 
DECORATIONS FOR ALL OCCASIONS 
Two Stores
Baum and Beatty Penn and Highland
V*%4-\4’\4-*4*%4*\4*Vfr\4-V*\4-\4'Vfr\4*VI-Vi-S4*%4'
| KURTZ, LANQBEIN & SWARTZ J
+ 535 Wood St , at 6th Ave. £
T Manheim (Adjustable) Polyphase Favorite, g 
,j£ Duplex, Log-L,og and Universal ^
0 Slide Rules. "w,+ /
4<*V!<>\4<>*4r0*4<>%4<>\4<>N4*\4<>*4<>\4<*4-0*
• 8 *
Joseph Home Co. i I
a
X>o "2"013. IC23.o"W
that we print more books than any firm
in the East End ?..............................
Do on ICxi.o'W
that our Programs, Topic Cards and Leaf­lets elicit the admiration oflovers of Fine
Printing?........................................................
IDo Uroia. 1^23.0"w
that we are prompt, and that an order 
for a dollar receives as much care and at­
tention as orae for a hundred dollars? . 
If you are fastidious, if you require 
prompt and efficient service, come to . 
SF-A-Hia c& 14ITSCHEE,
6117-6119 Kirkwood Street 
Ms., H. J. 14.Baumnd Mgr., Tartan, is 
our representative at “Tech.”
Bell Phones—86 and 9216 Hiland
WHERE ALL THE MEN CO” FOR THEIR TOES
%.........vx\xX\^XX1IROQUOIS BLOCj^^
Open Evenings

---------------------------------------------------

VOL. V
(Tile tartan
PITTSBURGH, PA., WEDNESDAY, MARCH 22, 1911.No. 24
A VERY FINE AFFAIR
BEST CONCERT YET GIVEN
Unquestionably the Glee and Mandolin Club con­
cert, pulled off last Tuesday night was a very fine 
affair.
Everything from the standpoint of music and gener­
al effect was very much up to the scratch. It can be 
said, without hesitation, that the affair is a decided 
improvement on anything of its kind held at these 
schools. It was out of the general run of the con­
certs held in the past. It embodied several new feat­
ures; features of a character which gave a pleasing 
touch of vaudeville to the affair.
The idea of having Mr. A. Mutt and Mr. Jeff come 
all the way from Mexico to play before the adherents 
of Carnegie Tech was certainly a good one. These 
same gentlemen of Gazette Times fame did their part 
as “Bud” Fisher would have had them do it, and they 
were successful in disturbing the visible faculties of 
the audience. Jeff, alias John Banbury, alias Mer­
cury, alias “school attache,” ought to be awarded a 
Carnegie Hero medal for condescending to come on. 
the stage wearing a smile and a barrel. It would 
have been rather embarrasing for Johnny if that 
barrel had lost its moorings. A very picturesque 
and pleasing feature of the program was the rendi­
tion of “My Hearts’ in the Highlands,” by the quar­
tette in Highland costume.
It was fortunate that the heating facilities of the 
music hall are very good, otherwise the gentlemen 
might have caught cold and been under the necessity
of expending 25 cents for a bottle of Mrs. Winslow’s 
Soothing Cough Syrup, as a result of wearing the 
highly ventilated attire of the Scotch. Mr. Rose’s 
sturdy figure appeared to be quite at home in this 
somewhat abbreviated attire. There appeared to be 
only two tnings lacking in the attire of these gentle­
men and that was a ruddy nose and a flask of the 
Scotch national beverage.
The idea of going through the second part of the 
program in a campus scene was well conceived as it 
added color and picturesqueness to the program. 
The rendition of “Fifth Nocturne” by the sextet from 
the Mandolin Club was exceptionally well done and 
reflects considerable credit upon Mr. Scalzo, the di­
rector of the Mandolin Club.
Mr. Scalzo appears to be a very fine muscian and a 
good acquisition to the club.
His “Carnegie Waltz” is a very fine and commen­
dable piece of work, its rendition being received wtih 
considerable applause.
Director McDowell’s Medley was very good and 
evoked considerable applause.
Mr. McDowell as director of the Glee Club has 
done his part very well and is due all kinds of praise.
Without question the quartette, composed of Mess­
rs. Roy Hodgdon, Edw. Hodgon, R. M. Crawford, and 
R. R. Rose made the hit of the evening. These gentle­
men are to be commended for their excellent work.

---------------------------------------------------

4THE TARTAN
That “Barber Shop Chord” song appeared to strike 
the sympathetic chord of the audience as these gen­
tlemen were encored several times. The Tartan takes 
pleasure in congratulating the management on its 
excellent work and herewith expresses the hope that
WHY JEFF "DID NOT QO 
TO THE PANCE.
the new standard set by it may be maintained in 
future affairs of its kind.
The officers of the organization are as follow’s: 
Wilbur P. Gettman, President.
L. H. Button, Manager.
H. M Woellmer, Secy.—Treas.
L. A. Orvill, L. B. Traver, Asst. Managers.
R. M. Crawford, Libr. Glee Club.
L. R. Madison, Libr. Mandolin Club.
THE WHITE FRIARS START THE SEASON’S 
WORK. 
ALL CANDIDATES OUT FOR CHORUS. 
HAVE THE FINEST BOOK EVER.
The White Friars have started the real work for 
the production of their 1911 show. All candidates 
are called out this week, the trials being called for 
Wednesday evening at 8.00 o’clock and Saturday af­
ternoon at 2.30, in Room 104, Industries. It is to be 
hoped that a large body turns out at these first 
trials so that the cast and chorus may be picked and 
the actual preparation started.
The book this year, as has been announced before 
by the Tartan, is being written by Messrs. Seible 
and Hagg, of the Gazette Times and Post re­
spectively. It deals with the Pittsburgh situation 
in a satirical burlesque vein, and, judging from the 
scenerio and the portion already written, will prove 
hugely entertaining and amusing. It calls for a cast 
of 17 persons, 15 male and three female roles. The 
chorus consists of Councilmen, School Directors, 
Suffragettes, School marms, Policemen, Spooks, 
Hucksters, etc. The size of the chorus depends 
upon the number and ability of the men that come 
out. It is the plan, however, that the chorus be 
larger this year than in any of the previous years 
and the Directors hope that a sufficient number of 
candidates report at the first call to make a second 
call unnecessary. For the benefit of the new men, 
Director Edmundson wishes to state that no 
candidate need stay away because of the lack of 
previous experience. Everybody is tried out strictly 
on his merits, and the best of the material at hand 
is picked.
In view of the fact that the writing of the book 
has not yet been finished, the chorus will receive the 
attention at the first. It is planned that the chorus 
will be worked up and put in good shape before the 
cast work commences. Then as soon as the cast is 
ready the two can be put together and the show 
will be in shape to present to the i ublic. This will 
be about the third week in May and the production 
will take place in one of the downtown theaters.
MR. CARNEGIE ASKS FOR CHARTER.
Founder to Incorporate His Benefactions.
Mr. Carnegie wishes to bring all of his many bene­
factions under one head, and for that purpose had a 
bill introduced in the New York Legislature, March 
22, incorporating the Carnegie Philanthropic funds.
The bill was introduced by Senator Hawley and 
was referred to the Senate Judiciary Committee. 
The incorporators are: Andrew Carnegie, Elihu Root, 
President of Carnegie Endowment for International 
Peace; Dr. H. S. Pritchett, President of the Carnegie 
foundation for the Advancement of Teaching; Wil­
liam N. Frew, President of the Board of Trustees of 
Carnegie Institute of Pittsburgh; Robert S. Wood­
ward, President of the Carnegie Institute of Wash­
ington; Charles L. Taylor, President of the Carnegie 
Hero Fund Commission; Robert A. Franks, Presi­
dent of the Home Trust Company, and James Ber­
tram, Mr. Carnegie’s Secretary.
The bill authorizes the incorporators “to receive 
and maintain a fund and apply the income to pro­
mote the advancement and diffusion of knowledge 
among the people of the United States, by aiding 
Technical Schools, institutions of learning, libra­
ries, scientific research, hero funds, useful publica­
tions, and by such other agencies and means as shall 
from time to time be found appropriate.”

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN5
DIRECTOR HAMERSCHLAG DELIVERS FINE
LECTURE TO SCIENCE MEN.
“Modern Leadership” His Topic.
Last Thursday morning Director Hamerschlag de­
livered a very fine address to the Day Science men. 
He took as his subject, “Modern Leadership,” and 
gave a message that the entire student body would 
do well to fix firmly in their minds. It is only, he 
pointed out, by constant effort and the continued 
assumption of somebody else’s load that you can 
grow towards leadership. This means unselfishness 
and a general and broad interest in the affairs of 
your fellows. It seems to us that a good many who 
heard this lecture might well take this to heart.
The Director began by giving the call of the times:
“I shall open my address with the “call of the 
times.” Industrial life, municipal affairs, business 
life, railroad life, every form of agricultural economic 
life and endeavor in this country today is calling for 
trained men, the kind of men who lead, and the most 
legitimate place for them to call for that leadership 
is to those institutions which are preparing men for 
leadership in these several lines. They áre not oper­
ated for the sort of individual who wishes to acquire 
muscular development in order to wield an ax and 
fell a tree, or dig a trench, or lay ties for the rail­
road, but they are training for a superior type with 
intellectual power plus a reasonably good physique 
with which to lead in a reasonably complex life. 
Those institutions which have produced the largest 
number of leaders are the ones which have won rec­
ognition. Heretofore the institutions which have 
•produced the leaders have been the great 
industries, the great prairies, agricultural 
and commercial communities; because the 
problems were simple, life not nearly so complex as 
today, and because many thousands, millions, with­
out skill or experience, under the stress of strife, 
getting the hard knocks, education, courage and grit 
which has always produced leaders. But in the last 
fifty years, the very complexity of civilization has 
more and more thrust that type of leader into the 
back ground. Since he was the product of his en­
vironment only, he did not understand the relations 
of his environment to any other. And more and 
more people are turning to our educational institu­
tions expecting them to produce in the school of 
preparation these leaders. Any attempt to do it in 
the mass is merely an expression of the fundamental 
principle of democracy.”
The Director then went on to point out the fallacy 
of the thought that by giving the same opportunity 
to great masses of people we could produce a whole 
group of leaders, equally well prepared and trained. 
Also he pointed out that it was not always the man at 
the head of the class who received the call to the 
important position. In speaking of the influences 
of other conditions than the School’s curriculum in 
the preparation for leadership, he said;
“Some men are born with the capacity or ability 
to do a given amount of work in a very short space 
of time, physically, mentally and socially able to 
carry a big load in a short space of time. Others 
require twice as much time to do the same work, 
but it is not always to the swift that the position of 
leadership is tendered. The question is one rather 
of growth in and out of the Schools. Many men 
entering this institution only partially prepared 
have, toward the end of their courses, by study and 
consecutive growth assumed the leadership among 
the students, whereas many men brilliantly prepared, 
well equipped, have failed to grow, frequently in 
fact have fallen back relatively to the lower class. 
My observation has been that the men who have 
grown most in their school life are men who have 
carried more than their own burden.
“You need not be told, those of you who 
have studied anatomy, that muscular parts of the 
body when not used atrophy; likewise we can say, 
pedagogically and psychologically, that brain cells 
not used do not grow; therefore, with all the in­
stincts of your mind and the strength of your body 
during the period of your greatest growth strive to 
load each brain cell to form and equip you for some­
thing better and stronger, and if you will take this 
thought with you this morning, that only by constant 
effort, continued assumption of somebody else’s load, 
can you expect to grow towards leadership, the pur­
pose of my message to you will be attained..'”
After speaking of the great modern tendency to­
wards combination, Director Hamerschlag spoke of 
the call that was being made for leaders and showed 
that the-production of the particular kind of leader 
needed was not a freak.
“There is no royal road, no prescribed course or 
method by which man can put himself in line for 
leadership other than that particular method which 
has been described as assuming the other man’s 
load, carrying more than you can bear today, there­
by strengthening yourself to carry a bigger load to­
morrow. How many men have the courage and are 
willing to do it so that to-morrow’s opportunity when 
grasped by them will make them leaders? Only a 
few. Most men seek happiness, ease, contentment, 
but the matter of leadership is quite the reverse. It 
neither brings you happiness, nor ease, nor content­
ment. A true leader can not be happy. He sees the 
need of others pressing him onward; it is no life of. 
ease. He must continue his work of carrying the 
burden for the other fellow, and it may be the 
State’s or the Nation’s.
Leadership takes the life work of a man. He has 
to carry the heat of the battle for leadership and 
then has to do one of two things: either be retired 
under defeat, even as the pugilist finally meets his 
conqueror, and as the great men in any other field 
must retire defeated by an abler, stronger and better 
equipped antagonist for that leadership; or resign 
to his own limitations, and so let the world produce 
the next leader. So it is in all the other walks of

---------------------------------------------------

6THE TARTAN
life, including educational institutions, all open to 
this generation that sits in front of me, who are 
going to be better equipped, better trained to under­
take the leadership and carry the other man’s bur­
den. In the last ten years many of the educational 
institutions of the United States have called unto 
themselves new leaders, who were scarcely heard of 
15 years ago. These men are men who can see new 
conceptions of their new responsibilities and are 
better equipped to carry on the work. The new 
leader is being made in business and in education, 
and he will be bigger and stronger than ever before, 
because more agencies are at work producing him 
than ever before in the world’s history.”
Director Hamerschlag then brought the matter 
down to a more personal basis. He expressed his 
conviction that every executive should have the 
powTer to choose and train his successor, and that 
he expected some one from within the institution 
to take up his duties wrhen he was ready to lay down. 
He said:
“It is not the man who speaks the loudest, or is 
elected most to office, but the man who is carrying 
most of the load for the other fellows in one of the 
fields of activity in which you are interested. The 
man who is willing to pick up the burden and do his 
part for the other fellow, or is thinking how he can 
do something for his fellow students and the com­
munity at large, he is the man predestined for ulti­
mate leadership somewhere.
DEAN WEST LECTURES BEFORE COLONY CLUB 
OF NEW YORK.
Dean West lectured before the Colony Club of 
New York City on March 25, on “What Constitutes 
a Liberal Education for Men.” Dean West drew her 
illustrations from her own School and student body, 
and defined the purposes of the School as follows: 
“The first is to develop character, the second is 
scholarship, and the third is to t»ach girls to become 
self-supporting.”
Dean West said that the stress was laid on char­
acter and scholarship in order that the students 
might become self-supporting, as would naturally 
follow. Miss West said also that few books were 
used, the principles being taught and their applica­
tion emphasized.
PATTERN SHOP GETS NEW MACHINE. 
A Revolving Oilstone and Grinder Added to Equip­
ment.
A new machine has been added to the equipment 
of the pattern shop, the addition being a combined 
revolving oilstone and grinder. This machine, ac­
cording to Mr. Pfouts, is well adapted for sharpening 
all kinds of edge tools and does away entirely with 
the bench oilstone. There are two oilstone wheels, 
one for quickly roughing down and the other for put­
ting on a keen edge, mounted in a pan which serves 
to catch all the oil that may drip from the wheels. 
At the back of the wheels are oil guards, which pre­
vent the wheels from throwing any oil. The oil pot 
is placed at the top and serves to supply the stones 
with oil, allowing it to drop very slowly, there being 
only very little oil required after the stones are once 
saturated. There is also a leather wheel for strop­
ping the tool after grinding, and a grinding cone for 
sharpening gouges with inside bevels. The machine 
is fitted up with a tool holding attachment, adjusta­
ble at any angle, which can be used in grinding 
plane bits, etc.
The whole apparatus is neatly and compactly 
mounted and is driven by a one-horse electric motor 
at a speed of 1,880 R. P. M. for the main spindle.
The addition of this machine will save Mr. Pfouts 
and those in his department much labor and, it is 
hoped, produce sharper tools.
PROMINENT VISITORS OF THE WEEK.
Among the visitors for the past week were Prof. 
Rowe and nine members of the Senior Class of the 
University of Kentucky, who inspected the Schools 
of Applied Science, and the Master Plumbers’ Asso­
ciation, the members and their wives, the party 
numbering about forty in all. This party took great 
interest in visiting the M. M. C. S.
CAMERA CLUB TO BE FORMED. 
All Interested Parties Asked to Join.
A Camera Club is to be started among the mem­
bers of the faculty and the student body and all in­
terested persons who would care to join such an 
organization are asked to make the fact known. An 
arrangement for a meeting will soon be made and 
notice posted on the bulletin boards or announced 
through these columns.
The idea back of the formation is to stimulate in­
terest and knowledge in the subject of photography. 
It is to be a sort of “help and be helped” organiza­
tion, those who know most helping those who know 
less and so on down the scale. It is planned to have 
the current literature on the subject at the disposal 
of the members and also a dark room in one of the 
buildings which the members may make arrange­
ments to use.
Those interested are requested to watch for the 
notice of the first meeting and attend.
New York University has a loan fund of $18,000 
from which students who need it may obtain assist­
ance. In most cases the promissory note given is 
payable two years after graduation. The interest re­
ceived is added to the principal, so that the fund 
is constantly increasing.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN7
MORE VOTING FCR SENIORS.
Additional Statistics to be Gathered.
The Senior Statistical Contest, as started by the 
Tartan last week is progressing very nicely. Below 
some additional subjects to be voted upon are given. 
The votes are to be made in the same manner as 
those of last week and handed to the same men, Mc- 
Corkle and Lourie. The votes on the subjects given 
below are handed in before Friday evening, March 
31st., in order to appear in the issue of the Tartan 
on April 5th, that being the last issue before vacation.
The subjects to be voted upon are divided into 
three classes: first, the faculty; second, the favorites; 
and third, general.
First class—the Faculty.
1. The most Popular member.
2. The most Broad-minded member.
3. The Brighest member.
4. The most Polished member.
5. The pleasantest member.
6. The most Eccentric member.
7. The member most difficult to recite to.
8. The member who does most for a fellow.
9. The member who gives the hardest examin­
ations.
10. The best lecturer.
11. The best Teacher.
Second class—the Favorites.
1. The favorte tobacco.
2. The favorite cigarette.
3. The favorite amusement.
4. The favorite sport.
5. The favorite local paper.
6. The favorite actress.
7. The favorite actor.
8. The favorite author.
Third class—General.
1. The hardest year in Tech.
2. The easiest year in Tech.
3. The pleasantest year in Tech.
4. Tech’s greatest need.
5. The greatest benefit derived from a course at
Tech.
6. The greatest regret at leaving Tech.
A PROBLEM FOR ALL EMBRYONIC ENGINEERS
The following question was propounded by Nelson, 
Director Hamerschlag’s young son, to his mother, and 
not feeling able to solve it, Mrs. Hamerschlag passed 
it on to the Tartan. Any soloutions to the same will 
gratify Nelson greatly.
Nelson—“Mother, is a goat half a horse power?”
TO OUR UNKNOWN BENEFACTORS.
One day last week the Editor, upon opening the 
Tartan box in the Science Bldg., found one cent, 
among otner ana various articles. There was ^o 
name attached to that cent nor was there a note ex-
explaning such an unheard of event as the-giving 
away of money. “Chief” Snyder was consulted but 
without result. Mr. Ormston of Oil City says that he 
knows nothing about it and was rather peeved to 
think that the Tartan could accuse him of such a 
deed. Therefore, in the absence (without excuse) 
of accurate information, we must take this means of 
thanking our unknown benefactor.
N. B.—All small favors are very thankfully re­
ceived.
PERMANENT COACH PROPOSED.
At a special meeting of the Board of Control on 
Wednesday evening, March 22, a motion was passed 
recommending to the faculty that a resident physi­
cian and a permanent coach of athletics be added to 
the faculty of the Department of Student Health. 
This action was taken on the recommendation of 
Dr. Savage and has many arguments in its favor, 
which the students will be quick to take up. The 
employment of a resident physician means that a 
student may secure attention at any time of the day, 
and that the physical welfare of the athletic com­
petitors will be looked after at all times. The De­
partment of Student Health has already assumed 
marvelous importance. Three men on the Faculty 
will soon be, and in fact are now, extremely neces­
sary. A permanent coach, competent to handle all 
of the major sports, will relieve Gymnasium Director 
McCulloch and allow him to devote more time to 
indoor work, as well as settle all the trouble that 
Tech has had in the past in securing coaches for the 
various ’Varsity teams. With increased facilities 
for building up the bodies of the students, the 
schools should soon hold a position of prominence 
among the colleges of the country, both for the ath­
letic teams representing them, and for the personal 
stamina of their graduates.
The next meeting of the Board of Control will be 
held Wednesday evening, April 5.
PUBLIC LECTURE WELL ATTENDED.
John I. Arbogast Speaks on Glass Industry.
Last Thursday evening John I. Arbogast, a mem­
ber of a family for years famous in the glass indus­
try in Pittsburgh, lectured before a large audience 
in Room 104,. Industries. His subject was, “Three 
Centuries of Glass.” The lecture was illustrated by 
over 180 slides that covered shop work, machines 
used, and articles made, as well as the industry as 
viewed from an artistic standpoint.
The multiplicity of the uses to which glass is ap­
plied, as brought out by Mr. Arbogast, surprised all. 
He said that glass has, without doubt, entered more 
into the necessities of science and the social com­
forts and conveniences of everyday life than almost 
any other of man’s productions.

---------------------------------------------------

sTHE TARTAN
X H B TARTAN
Published Weekly During the School Year by 
Students of Carnegie Technical Schools, Pitts­
burgh, Pennsylvania
EDITORIAL BOARD.
Donald D. Mitchell, ’12................Editor-in-Chief
David Henderson, ’12...........Associate Editor
C. B. Kline, ’13................................Athletic Editor
Helen M. Baglin, ’11, M. M. C. S., Assoc. Editor 
Florence A. Flinn, ’11, M.M.C.S., Assis’t Editor 
W. H. Buente, ’12........................Assistant Editor
H. J. McCorkle, ’11...................Business Manager
G. G. Kelcey, ’14..................Advertising Manager
CLASS REPRESENTATIVES *
Day Classes 
School of Applied Science
Ft. P. Bascom............................................................1911
...............................................................1912
E. E. Duff, Jr..........................................................1913
H. J. Kennedy ......................................................1914
School of Applied Design
J. H. Barker ............................................................1913
J. C. McCarthy.....................................................1913
School of Applied Industries
W. T. Ahlers ........................................................1911
Night Classes 
School of Applied Science
O. A. Grant ..........................................................Prep.
School of Applied Design 
School of Applied Industries
Subscription Rates
Yearly ........................................................................$2.00
Single Copy....................................................10 Cents
Student Rates
Yearly ......................................................................$1.00
Single Copy.........................................................5 Cents
For Advertising Rates, address the Business Manager, eare 
Carnegie Technical Schools
The Tartan calls attention to the new cover, run 
for the first time this week, it won the third prize 
in the recent competition and is the work of Miss 
Jean Crombie, of the School of Applied Design.
Owing to the fact that the votes in the Senior Sta­
tistical Contest were not turned in strictly on sched­
ule time, the results of the first balloting will not be 
announced this week. It is hoped that next week 
the results can be run in their complete form.
We must again call attention to the time at which 
copy for the Tartan must be placed in the Tartan 
boxes to insure its appearance. For the past two 
weeks articles have been turned in too late and had 
to be held over until the following issue, if possible, 
or thrown into the waste basket. Be sure that your 
material is placed in the boxes by 12 o’clock noon 
on Monday, written on one side of the paper only 
and marked with the sender’s name.
DR. HOLLAND GIVES INTERESTING LECTURE.
Last Wednesday evening, Dr. Holland, Director of 
the Carnegie Paleontological research work lectured 
in Room 209, Science upon “The Palcontological Re­
search of the Carnegie Institute.”
Dr. Holland illustrated his lecture with many slides, 
showing the research work in the Carnegie fields of 
the west; the specimens set up in the Museum; the 
animals as they might have appeared in life, and 
views of replicas set up in foreign cities. Fully half 
the slides were of those dry and desolate spots of 
our west, views which are always of interest. These 
showed the Docter and his corps of helpers at work 
searching for the remains of extinct species.
The diplodocus was shown as he lay unearthed; 
as he stands in the Carnegie Museum and finally as 
he stands in replica, in London, Berlin, Paris and 
Vienna.
The lecture was extremely interesting at every 
point, and gave a thorough general knowledge of a 
work with which but few people are acquainted. It 
was a lecture which should have been attended by 
every student, ambitous to acquire a fund of general 
knowledge aside from his daily studies.
CARNEGIE MECHANICAL ENGINEERING 
SOCIETY GETS OVER $150.
Last Saturday evening the Carnegie Mechanical 
Engineering Society met in business session. Mr. 
W. L. Munk, of the fifth year night class, was elected 
president of the Society in place of Mr. W. T. Woods, 
who has left School.
Hitherto, Mr. Munk has been particularly active 
in canvassing funds for the furnishing ?, club room 
for the use of the Society and has succeeded in rais­
ing over $150.
The Carnegie Steel Co., Jones & Laughlin Co., and 
the National Tube Co., were some of the contrib­
utors.
The constitution fo the Society was amended to 
embody the institution of a board of trustees.
Next Saturday, April 1st, 8.15., a talk will be given 
to the Society on “Mechanical Cleaning versus Chem­
ical Cleaning of Boilers.” The talk will be given by
S. A. Bockins, the mechanical engineer of the Elliott 
Company of this city. The subject of the talk is in 
line with the study of boilers being taken up, at the 
present time, by the Junior Mechanicals and certain 
other classes.
At the February 11th meeting of the Society a 
talk was given on chemical cleaning of boilers, and 
now an opportunity will be given to the students of 
the mechanical department to hear facts bearing on 
the mechanical cleaning of boilers.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
P UE- D-OSIG HX>o"S 2 •?• if» 4>jiji4>4i4i4i4i^4iH,i,4'HH4iH'i,4,4i4"!'4"i>H44iH>4,,:<
All of us like to have as much “fun” in this world 
as possible, since we don’t know much about what 
may be coming to us in the next. By “fun,” in col­
loquial usage, most of us mean enjoyment of on£ 
kind or another, high or low. I suppose it approxi­
mately true that the desire for enjoyment, according 
to some of the innumerable conceptions of it, is the 
ultimate motive underlying most human activities; 
and that most if not all normal men have in them 
the instinctive disposition to seek their enjoyment 
in the highest forms conceivable to them. We do 
not live up to our conceptions of the ideal ways of 
having fun, but we respect the ideals and at least 
aim at reaching them. Probably there are as many 
of these ideals as there are individuals in the human 
race, varying from the most sensual to the most 
spiritual. It is given to no one to impose his ideal 
on all the rest of us; though the greatest of our race, 
conceiving more nobly than the rest in proportion 
to their greatness, have always modified the ideals 
of others in varying degree. For example the ideals 
of Christ have influenced those of the whole western 
world and controlled the direction of all western civ­
ilization. Most of u& are tolerably content if, for 
our ideals of the worthiest forms of enjoyment, we 
are not dubbed cranks by our neighbors; and are 
disposed to expect nothing more in return for our 
willingness to view their ways with consideration 
than that they may not call us crazy fellows for ours.
Yet I believe every one of us feels a tang to have 
others see things as we do, and to have them enjoy 
what we find enjoyable. Furthermore, certain 
ideals of enjoyment do command a sort of general 
acceptance among men of the best types. It would 
probably be generally agreed that those forms of 
enjoyment are best which tend to elevate the indi­
vidual, to help general content and progress, and 
which are within the reach of all. Of such joys, 
that we have in the sweetness and beauty of the 
natural world is no doubt the most universal. It 
costs no man anything, and any man may have 
it who brings a serene and simple mind and a clean 
heart.
After this, enjoyment of the best of men’s works 
of art probably comes nearest to being within uni­
versal reach and to making a universal appeal.
Now I would like to appeal to our boys to con­
sider the worth to them of the pleasure, the “fun,”-— 
they might find in one form of art—literature; in 
the reading of good books,—which I suspect 
to.be not very general or fashionable among them, 
and not to make any considerable part of their ideals 
of having a good time in this world. I would like 
to plead for the reading of the best books they may 
find themselves capable of genuinely enjoying, for 
the pure fun of it. I suspect that most young men,—
and for that matter, most older ones,—take their 
reading as medicine, or as duty, or as the condition 
of a culture they find hope, or suppose to be expected 
of them, rather than as an inexhaustible source of 
enjoyment. Personally, I could never quite under­
stand the thing so. I know I could not and doubt if 
others can come to any genuine cultivation of mind 
or heart by reading for any other end than the per­
sonal and pure joy of it. Culture must be a by­
product of this joy. What is, perhaps, not unjustly 
termed the “Bostonese” attitude of mind toward 
books and the reading of them is incomprehensible 
to me. I cannot conceive of a man’s getting at the 
real heart of books by joining societies or by dis­
cussions or lectures or by reading them because 
Jones or Smith may think him an ignorant fellow if 
he does not. I cannot see why any one should stu­
pidly go on reading something he cannot enjoy.
I venture these suggestions to the readers of the 
Tartan on account of a suspicion that the Bostonese 
notion of books and their uses has done much to 
repel young people from using them for fun; and in 
the hope of encouraging some one to try reading as 
a form of enjoyment,—the reading of the best things 
he finds he can enjoy thoroughly. Incidentally he 
is sure to gain by the process some real and intimate 
culture of mind and manners.
One further suggestion. Would our boys consider 
it worth the time it would take them to meet and 
talk with the chosen spirits of our race if they had 
the chance,—a host of men like Paul and Caesar and 
Shakespeare and Darwin,—say? Do they forget 
that cards of introduction into this company are 
being issued daily at the Carnegie Library.
Free of charge? The immortals will receive any 
one presenting a card in their best moods and with 
their best manners. Not all of them could have re­
ceived so well outside their books. Carlyle is said 
to have been a very surly old fellow. They could 
not, as we cannot, live up to their ideals. We value 
them as wTe wish to be valued,—by the best we have 
to give mankind, by what we would like to be rather 
than by what we are.
H. McGoodwin.
MECHANICAL LABORATORY EQUIPMENT.
The latest addition to the Mechanical Laboratory 
equipment is a centrifugal fan, presented to the 
Mechanical Department by the B. F. Sturtevant Co., 
of Boston.
The fan proper is ten inches in diameter, with 
vanes one inch deep by eight inches wide. The fan 
chest has an inlet opening ten inches in diameter 
and a discharge opening eight inches square. The 
machine is designed for belt drive.
The fan tests, to be run in conjunction with the 
course on “Pumping and Compressing Machinery,” 
will include the determination of the characteristics 
of the apparatus.

---------------------------------------------------

10THE TARTAN
MR. GERWIG LECTURES TO INDUSTRY MEN.
Last Monday morning Mr. Gerwig, Secretary of 
the Board of Education of Allegheny, lectured to the 
Industries men in Room 104, Industries Building, his 
subject being “The Short Story.”
Mr. Gerwig believes that the short story is the 
logical way to get a message before the American 
public, there not being time enough to go through 
a two-volume novel to get the message which can so 
easily be given in the other form. It used to be 
thought that to be able to write was a gift, and that 
without such a gift it was useless to make the at­
tempt. Now, according to Mr. Gerwig it has been 
proven that the art can, like many other things, be 
acquired. He compared the writing of a good short 
story to the building of a good bridge, five things 
being necessary:
(1) A good plot.
(2) Human interest.
(3) Dramatic intensity.
(4) Character.
(5) Subject matter.
Mr. Gerwig believes that America will take the 
lead from all other nations in the art of short story 
writing.
LECTURE TO BE GIVEN FOR MR. BURGOYNE. 
Noted Pittsburgh Newspaper Man to Retire.
On Friday evening, April 7th, a lecture will be 
given for Arthur G. Burgoyne in the Carnegie Music 
Hall. Mr. Burgoyne, who is shortly to retire from 
the journalistic profession which he has followed as 
editor, poet, and paragrapher for upward of thirty 
years, will devote the greater part of the evening to 
recounting the odd, amusing and tragic experiences 
he has had in his career, and to the reading of some 
of his more famous poetical and humorous prose pro­
ductions. Music will also be a feature of the pro­
gram. A long list of men prominent in Pittsburgh 
and the State of Pennsylvania are to act as patrons.
Mr. Burgoyne is a great friend of Tech, and at the 
present time is writing the lyrics for the White 
Friar Show for this season. Tickets for this lecture 
may be had at any of the newspaper offices, the price 
being $1 anywhere in the house. Those who go will 
not regret it and will have the added satisfaction of 
paying a just tribute.
ARCHITECTS PREFER THE “JUNGLE TOWN” 
SONG.
The Architects appear to have quite a preference 
for that “Down in Jungletown” song. This partiality 
was very much in evidence while they were observ­
ing last Sabbath day by religious industry at the 
drawing board.
In spite of various attempts by the more versatile 
exponents of the gentle art of music to start up some
less antiquated refrain the majority of these at­
tempts proved abortive. Some of the attempts were 
successful and the new refrain wiuld be sung 
through with some evidences of spirit, but there 
would always be a slow but sure gravitation back to 
“Jungletown.” The Architects believe apparently in 
going back to nature.
However, be that as it may, the effect of this con­
stant rehashing of this abused melody on the ear of 
the disinterested spectator was, to put it mildly, very 
unrefreshing, and to put it very strongly, was calcu­
lated to make him very sick.
The Architects appeared to appreciate this fact, 
however, because the public was warned emphat­
ically by a placard placed at the entrance to the 
drawing room that no visitors were allowed in the 
urawing room. Such forethought, bearing on the 
public welfare, is worthy of every commendation, and 
the Tartan takes pleasure in herewith calling the 
attention of the public to it.
MEETING OF ALLIANCE FRANÇAISE
The Pittsburgh group of the Alliance Française 
will give a l'eading of Maeterlinck’s “Blue Bird,” 
Thursday evening, March 30th, at 8.15 o’clock, in the 
gymnasium of the Thurston-Gliem Preparatory 
School, Howe street, near South Negley avenue. A 
cordial invitation is extended to all students to at­
tend.
A SURMISAL.
In his lecture last Thursday to, the Applied Sci­
ence School, Director Hamerschlag expressed the 
hope that some time in the distant future the office 
of Director would be filled by a graduate of these 
Schools. This remark has engendered quite a little 
discussion in the Junior class as to whom, in the 
class, on a basis of his personal equation, could, at 
the present time, be regarded as the most likely 
candidate for the job. The aid of the Tartan was 
asked to settle the question, and the Tartan has 
been able to give it.
The Tartan made a study of each individual of 
each department in the Junior class and was unsuc­
cessful in its search until it reached the department 
containing the Junior Mechanicals. To put it mildly, 
it wras surprised to find how singularly prolific this 
class is in embryonic Directors, and was very much 
at a loss at first, whom to choose as the most likely 
candidate. But finally it was able to limit the 
choice to two individuals, namely, Mr. James K. 
Lamoree and Mr. Alfred J. Ormston. The TartaTi 
has made a very careful inquiry into the character­
istics and antecedents of these two individuals and 
has been able to find sufficient basis to warrant it in 
deciding in favor of Mr. Ormston. It bases its choice 
on the fact that Mr. Lamoree is only from New Cas­
tle, Pa., whereas Mr, Ormston is from Oil City.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN11
SCIENCE WINS MEET.
The Indocr Inter-School Meet, that was held in the 
Field House on Saturday, March 25, was one of the 
most exciting track events seen in the Pittsburgh 
district. The gallery was filled with spectators, while 
the contestants and officials filled all of the floor 
space not in actual use. Director McCulloch and 
Manager McCorkie should feel proud of the way in 
which the affair was handled and the officials from 
the faculty deserve credit for the manner in which 
their duties were carried out.
The £rst event was the twenty-yard dash, and four 
men qualified for the finals. The final was won by 
Crawford, Science, in three seconds flat, with Waite, 
Design, second; Houston, Industries, third; and Col­
well, Science, fourth. The men showed eagerness 
and ability to beat the gun if allowed, and the start­
ing was the object of the race.
The second race was the rope climb. Two men 
were started in each heat, and the time of each win­
ner was taken. Griffiths, of the Design school, won 
by a narrow margin from Stears, of the Science. 
Beeker, Science beat Boots, also of Scinece, to the 
roof, and Wilson of the Industries school proved a 
better monkey than Waite, of the Design. Griffiths 
time, 11 2-5 seconds, was the best made, and he was 
declared winner, with Beeksr second and Wilson 
third.
In the running high jump, Criswell, a little Indus­
trial, cleaned up the field by getting over the bar at
5 ft., % in. Griffiths, Design, won second place, 
Decker, Science third, and Colwell, Science, fourth.
The bar vault was an exhibition of gymnatic abil­
ity that caused considerable rivalry and showed many 
different styles. Stears, Science, after trying with 
McCully, of Industries, for first place, vaulted the 
bar at 6 feet, 5% in., leaving the Braddock gymnast 
to take second. Kyems, Science, by varying his 
style on every trial got third place, and Lawrie, also 
of Science, received fourth mention.
Sutherin, Industries, had little trouble in taking 
first place in the pole vault with a mark of 8 feet. 
Lose, also of Industries, was second, and Siegel, 
Science, pushed himself into third place. Wardner, 
another Industrial, took the only remaining place, 
making the event a strictly Industrial one.
The shot put was won by Boots, of the Science 
school, when he hured the sphere 35 feet, 3% in. 
Weaver, Design; Allen, Science and Veder. Indus­
tries, took the other places in the order named.
An event that aroused considerable interest was 
that in which each man took three standing broad 
jumps in succession. Kjims, the Science man fron 
Denmark, dismayed his opponents on the first trial, 
and finally won the event on a distance of 27 feet,
6 5-8 in. Crawford, also a Science athlete, made a 
mark of 25 feet, 11 in., that secured second place for 
him. Kingley, Industries, finished third, with Boots, 
Science, fourth.
The last event was the most strenuous of the day 
and caused the most excitement. This was called
a “quarter-mile potato race,” but was accomplished 
as follows. In each alley were placed two stands 39 
feet apart. One contained 17 “potatoes,” or square 
blocks of wood, while the other was empty. Each 
man started at the full box, carried a “potato” to the 
empty one, deposited it, and returned for more, fin­
ishing at the starting place.
The time of the first two men finishing each heat 
was taken, and the winners placed accordingly. 
Knapp, Science, and Fish, Industries, placed in the 
first heat, McCrory, Design, and Lafferty, Industries, 
in the second; and Waite, Design, and Beeker, 
Science, in the third. Waites’ time was 1:41 1-5 and 
he was declared the winner. McCrory came in four 
seconds behind Waite, and Knapp and Beeker tied 
for third place in 1:45 3-5.
The score by events, counting points 5, 3, 2 and 1 
was as follows.
20-yard dash ............................632
Rope climb ..........................................352
High jump ..........................................335
Bar vault ..............................................803
Pole vault ..........................................209
Broad jump ........................................920
.....................731
Quarter mile ..............................380
412422
DRAFTSMEN’S CLUB BANQUET.
The Night Draftsmen’s Club will give a banquet at 
the Monongahela House on Saturday, April 29th, at 
eight o’clock. The committee in charge of the ban­
quet is working hard to make it a success, and it is 
up to each member of the club to do all he can to aid 
them and to be at the “Mon House” on the last Sat­
urday of April. A cordial invitation is extended to 
aii students of the schools and their friends, and a 
hearty welcome assured them. The speakers will be 
members of the faculty. Tickets will be on sale 
some time next week at $1.50 each. Class closes 
for the A. I. men on the 28th, so come out and help 
us celebrate this fact.
SORRY TO SPOIL A STORY, BUT IT’S TRUE.
We really hate to say anything which will spoil 
the beautiful stories put in circulation the past week 
or two concerning a Tech student, supposedly, who, 
from overwork, so completely lost his head that he 
went to Moundsville, West Virginia, and walked 
there at that.
W. H. Paulson entered the School of Applied In­
dustries in 1907 and remained there two years. In 
the fall of 1908 he entered the School of Applied 
Science, but was dropped from the rolls at the end 
of the term. Since then he has not been a student 
in any department of Tech.
We are sorry that in view of these facts that we 
cannot claim Paulson as one of our own and oblige 
our friends, the reporters.

---------------------------------------------------

12THE TARTAN
P. LUDEBUEHL & SON
.-SS OSD C3OSWGUXnS Ox-So-G
GEX-G
-OGU -SD
SEE
SEE THE NEW TOE KIDDO
Made up in Heavy Fall and Winter Tan Button and Blucher 
OUR FOUR SHOW WINDOWS EOR THE FALL STYLES
r*% Si't niik at thi Uhiatris
* * ? * *
Nixon—“The Country Boy." A really funny and 
enjoyable farce comedy. Valuable principally for 
fine character types.
Alvin. Sam Bernard in “He Came Fron Milwau­
kee.” A typical musical “girl show.” Bernard is 
very funny.
Duquesne.—Stock company in “The House Next 
Door.” An excellent play. Was seen here at the Nix­
on with J. E. Dodson as the star.
Lyceum.—“The Virginian. Owen Wisters’ novel 
dramatized and played for a long time by Dustin 
Farnum.
Grand.—A vaudeville bill headed by a new comedy 
called “A Night in a Turkish Bath.”
OUT-DOOR PRACTICE HELD.
The first out-door baseball practice was held on 
the field on Saturday afternoon. About forty men 
reported to take part in the batting and fielding 
practice that comprised the day’s work. A large 
number of hopeful pitchers were working out with 
an almost equal number of back-stops in various 
parts of the field, and most of them showed that a 
little further practice will perfect speed and control 
and give Tech a pitching squad of the best.
The “men above” hope to have the field put into 
shape early in the week, and it is expected that 
daily practice will start soon. The first scheduled 
game is for Saturday, April 8, but a practice game 
may be held next Saturday with some local amateur 
team.
INDUSTRY PLEBES TAKE NOTICE.
All Plebes desiring class pictures may obtain them 
from C. W, Peppel, class treasurer.
$ s;0 8)}] Observations of a Wendering Mind i(i
$ 'g
OBSERVATIONS.
Professor Wurts is a stickler for politeness. Even 
the mighty Senior must wipe his feet and take off 
his hat when he enters the office of the Head of the 
Electrical Department.
Professor Trinks has one small son; Professor 
Doyle has four small daughters. When Trinks meets 
Doyle the following conversation generally takes 
place: Says Trinks, “Well, Doyle, how are all the
little ‘Doylies?’” Says Doyle, “Fine. And is the 
little ‘Trinket’ in good health?”
Dr. Watson L. Savage, Supervisor of Athletics, 
was formerly Head of the Department of Physical 
Education at Columbia University. Dr. Savage be­
lieves in fraternities, when properly conducted, as 
an important adjunct to college life.
Mr. Alfred J. Ormston is from Oil City.
Dean Clara West, of the M. M. C. S., is a deter­
mined opponent to “sufferagettism” and “woman 
rampant.”
Professor Keller likes to play base-ball and is an 
authority upon intercollegiate athletes.
Despair is the grave-yard of weak minds.
Mr. K. G. Walker, Mr. Mike Phillips, Luther M. 
Patterson, and Mr. James K. Lamoree were present 
at the meeting of the Carnegie Mechanical Society 
last Saturday night. It is in order to give the Dr. 
Watson ejaculation, “Strange.”
Dr. Sill, of the Chemistry Department, is a Prince­
ton Alumnus and a base ball catcher on the Faculty 
nine.
It is remarked that people who live in glass houses 
should dress in the dark. .
The President of the Seniors of Science has the 
misfortune to hail from Texas. He would like to 
s'ee the Texas State Government annex Mexico, and 
revive the institution of slavery.

---------------------------------------------------

: KE TARTAN13
Jas. J. Flannery, President. J. J. Booth, Vice-President. J. G. Pew, 2d Vlce-Pres. and Sec'y
C. B. Aylesworth, Treasurer.
RESOURCES OVER ONE AND ONE HALF MILLION DOLLARS. DEPOSITS OVER ONE MIL­
LION DOLLARS. CAPITAL AND SURPLUS OVER THREE HUNDRED AND SIXTY THOUS­
AND DOLLARS. A BANK THAT IS STRONG IN ASSETS, IN MEN, IN COURTESY.
OAKLAND SAVINGS AND TRUST COMPANY
IROQUOIS BLOCK.
J *
| STUDENT AID BUREAU I
i * •** 4*
Stenographer for firm in Pittsburgh, $60—$70 per 
month.
Clerical—$40—$50 per month. Work near schools.
Wood pattern maker for manufacturing concern 
in Greensburg, Pa. 33 cents per hour.
Assistant foreman in drop forging plant in Alle­
gheny. Plant makes small forgings. Hours 7:00 to 
5:00. Wages approximately $20 per week.
Cement tester, knowledge of elementary algebra, 
physics, mechanical drawing, English, and chemistry 
required. Wages $50—$60 per month at start.
Chemist—Iron and steel analysis. $50 per month. 
Machinist apprentice—18—22 cents per hour.
THISTLE NOTICE.
For several months past the editoral board of the 
“Thistle” has been putting forth every effort to bring 
to a head the preparations for the issue of the 1911 
year book. It will be impossible, however, for them 
to fully accomplish their purpose unless they receive 
the immediate assistance of the members of the var­
ious classes, whose desire it is that they be repre­
sented.
The publication of this issue cannot be held up be­
cause of a few delinquents; at the same time the 
board feels that the “Thistle” should contain the most 
complete record of the activities and conditions of the 
student body.
It would therefore request that all classes who 
have not as yet submitted material give the matter 
their immediate attention.
Class histories, and all writings concerning the 
schools should be put into the Thistle box in the 
front corridor of the Applied Industries’ building.
Heads and members of fraternities and clubs 
should see to it that they have had their picture, 
and also a correct list of the members, turned into 
the proper hands.
All the material must be in before April first, in 
order to be published. Don’t forget the “box” in the 
A. I. Building.
See to it that your frat or club has been repre­
sented. W. H. Lousha.
2 HO>-SDO3 P
*
Thursday, March 30th.
11.00 A. M.—Room 104, Industries, lecture by Mr.
Samuel Hamilton on “Industrial Educa- 
cation.”
4.00 P. M.—Base ball Practice.
8.15 P. M.—Room 104, Industries, lecture by Prof.
Hornbostel.
Friday, March 31st.
9.20 P. M.—Room 104, Industries, Chorus Practice 
for all night classes.
10.20 P. M.—Room 104, Industries, Chorus Practice 
for all night Science classes.
Saturday, April 1st.
2.30 P. M.—Baseball Practice. Men report at Gym.
2.30 P. M.—Room 104, Industries, White Friars cast
and chorus candidates try out.
8.15 P. M.—Carnegie Mechanical Engineering So­
ciety talk on “Mechanical versus 
Chemical Cleaning of Boilers.”
Monday, April 3d.
4.00 P. M.—Baseball Practice, Tech Field if in
shape.
Tuesday, April 4th.
4.00 P. M.—Baseball Practice, Tech Field.
Wednesday, April 5th.
4.00 P. M.—Room 104, Industries, Chorus Practice
for all Day classes.
8.00 P. M.—Room 221 Science. Monthly meeting of
Mho Club. Visitors welcome.
8.15 P. M.—Room 209, Science. Lecture by Robert
S. Weston on “Water Purification.”
8.00 P. M.—Board of Control meeting.

---------------------------------------------------

14THE TARTAN
r3iMiMaf3fajaiaMaiSM3EiaiaMaisjBMaMSjaMaMa®aiaM3ra
P GHEXX> XC O..>I-D D-GIGS I
j^MSMSMaMaMaiaiaMSj'aMMaiaMaiSMeMaiaiafaMaiaiaMic
The Department of Architecture has made an ex­
cellent showing at the judgment held by the Society 
of Beaux Arts Architects this scholastic year. Stud­
ents both in Classes A and B have submitted meri­
torious work and have received as a reward a num­
ber of first and second medals and also a number of 
first mentons.
The students are still upholding the standard they 
have set, as is shown by the last judgment held by 
the Society of Beaux Arts Architects Tuseday, March 
14th.
This school obtained three first mentions. The 
students submitting these three designs were Messrs. 
W. H. Crosby, L. C. Dillenback and A. H. Good. The 
two former students submitted projects for the Class 
“B” Plan problem “A Winter Circus,” while the lat­
ter submitted the Class “B” Order Problem “A Niche 
in a Garden Wall.
Both problems proved to be very interesting 
though difficult especially the Plan Project. The fac­
ulty are well pleased with the work the students are 
doing and hope they will not fall below the high stan­
dard they have set.
The fourth Class A Project of this scholastic year, 
“A Theatre” is due Monday, March 27th. This pro­
ject is a very interesting and a practical one, and th? 
students are showing every effort to present five 
projects.
The Class A and B Archaeology Problem is also 
due this Monday, March 27th.
The current problems in the Department of Inter­
ior Decoration are as follows: Elementary Class, “A 
Small Chest or Casket to Contain Valuable Objects.” 
Rendu March 31st. Class B “An Italian Arm Chair.” 
Rendu March 24th.
Programmes for the first preliminary sketch for 
the Paris Prize Competition were given out Satur­
day, March 25th at 2 P. M.
Programmes for the first Esquisse-Esquisse in the 
Sculptural Competiton were given out at the same 
time.
Mr. Henry McGoodwin, Acting Dean of this school 
has returned from a short visit to Boston and New 
York. While in New York he attended the Class B 
judgment held by the Society of Beaux Arts Archi­
tects.
Mr. and Mrs. Ferrand entertained the facutly and 
the Class “A” students with a luncheon at their home, 
5542 Fair Oak Ave., Sunday, March 19th, at 4 P. M. 
During the evening Mr. Lee gave a lengthy talk on 
“The Present Day Architecture,” followed by a talk 
from Mr. Ferrand upon “Suggestions to Class A 
Men.” A delightful lunch was served at 6 P. M. The 
guests departed at a late hour declaring an evening 
delightfully spent.
C !t!J3J3i5M3MBMSISrSM3M3I3ISfSI5®3I3 3J3I3M3ISJ3M3MS31
P ". ". H. G. P
1 £>
ADDRESS BY MISS WELLS.
The Tuesday afternoon choral class is often omit­
ted for the purpose of allowing the girls to hear an 
address by some prominent person. Last week Miss 
Jessie Wells, of the Carnegie Library, spoke to us 
on “The Use of a Library.” Miss Wells introduced 
us to the mysteries of the dictionary catalogue sys­
tem, and explained the proper way to look up a sub­
ject. Many of the amusing episodes of library life 
were brought in. Some of the thoughts presented 
were of value in other ways than merely as a guide 
to library reference. Miss Wells gave some good 
advice concerning the attitude of an individual to 
his work, the ways in which a person may increase 
his general knowledge, and the fallacy of thinking 
that education is finished when school training is 
over.
After the talk was finished we all felt that we had 
learned something of practical value, and had met a 
very charming and capable woman.
SENIOR DEBATE.
The monotony of the regular schedule was inter­
rupted on Thursday by a debate given in the Senior 
Secretarial Class. The subject was one that has 
also been of interest in the history class recently, 
namely, was the execution of Charles the First Jus­
tified? The exact question for decision was worded 
as follows: “Was the execution of Charles the First 
justified as the only solution of the problem between 
him and Parliament?” Eleanor Clark was the leader 
of the affirmative side; assisting her were Sophia 
Semmelrock, Sara Lindsey, and Catherine Swickard. 
Helen Stewart led the negatives, and her assistants 
were Rebecca Shiras, Ruth Henderson, and Flor­
ence Flinn. The decision • rendered was in favor of 
the negative side.
MRS. HAMERSCHLAG’S TEA.
One of the most delightful events of their class 
history was enjoyed by the Seniors on Friday last, 
when they were entertained by Mrs. Hamerschlag. 
It was a most charming affair, being quite informal, 
and was thoroughly enjoyed by all of those present.
The entertainment consisted of various games, 
basket work, and informal talks. The idea of bas­
ketry was further carried out in the serving of re­
freshments, which consisted of ice cream in the 
form of baskets filled with fresh strawberries, dainty 
cakes, and coffee.
The Director and his two sons, Nelson and Ralph, 
added to the pleasure of the afternoon, and when 
the class reluctantly left, they declared with one ac­
cord that Mrs. Hamerschlag is the most charming 
of hostesses.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN15
THE NEW SCHOOL SONG.
The student body of the Technical Schools is 
happy in the possession of a new school song, given 
here in its complete form. The song, as stated last 
week in the Tartan, is from Miss Stoner’s clever 
pen. It was written at the request of the Director, 
who thought that we ought to have a distinctive 
school song,—one that no other school has ever had, 
with original words and music. The song is cer­
tainly a success, and has been greeted with enthusi­
asm by all who have heard it. It was first publicly 
sung in honor of Mr. Hornbostel, who gave an ad­
dress to the Morrison girls on Tuesday, March 7th. 
The song is for the whole school, and will be sung 
at the first mass meeting.
Carnegie Tech all hail to thee,
We sing thy praises reverently,
For the powers, gained through the hours spent 
’neath thy guiding 
Have revealed knowledge to shield through thy pro­
viding,
Thou’rt the head and the source 
Of the uplifting force,
Giving the power through all knowledge abiding. 
And the shield will not yield in the world-fight,
For the facts, like an ax, will be hurled right.
Refrain.
To clear the way for Truth’s pure might,
For love of home and its delight,
We will march with a spirit, a strong Carnegie spirit 
That is ready to die for right.
\*\*V*\*\*\*\*S*\*\*N*S*\*\*\*\*\*\***********
See the Tartan Manager for student rates on * 
the following scientific papers; £
The Electric Railway Journal £
The Electrical World**The Engineering Record
******** ***************************
REYMERS’
CHOCOLATES
Tlie Superiority of Reyniers' Confections is beyond Question
On Sale“Everywhere for Everybody” J
The old system of using a heated iron and a * 
dirty cloth presses the grime and dirt into your J 
garments. Our sanitary machine steams it all out, S. 
and removes permanently the dirt, perspiration, •r 
odor and grime. 5
See SHUMAN, The Dry Cleaner, 3911 Forbes St. £
\ XOW>OSD BoUU-3 "O3W-U i
£ Dealers in ^i BUTTER, EGGS. POULTRY, CHEESE, TEA. COFFEE 
£ AND CANNED GOODSf 3714 FORBES STREETBell Phone Sehenley
Get your class fobs either nickel, silver or 
gold, any year, at the SCHENLEY LUNCH, 
Craig and Forbes.
Special offer—only a few fobs left at 25 
cents. SCHENLEY LUNCH.
Carnegie Tech, all hail to thee 
We sing thy praises joyously,
On we go, ever to show, proof of thy learning,
And each heart, as we depart, for thee is yearning, 
Thou hast given of thy store, that which shall ever­
more
Back to its source, measured twice, be returning; 
Honors dower gives the power to protect us,
T’will defend to the end and direct us.
Send us your Clothing to be cleaned, Pressed and 
Repaired. Our greatest asset is a satisfied customer. 
Shuman, 3911 Forbes street—The Dry Cleaner.
DOES THIS INTEREST YOU?
We have a good position open to a young man of 
character, during the summer vacation. If the applicant 
chosen desires, we can start him now with Saturday 
work. Call at Johnson Studios, 241 Fifth Avenue.
The graduation of the Senior Class of the Yale 
Forestry School will take place on February 25.
TECH BARBER SHOP
Forbes and Craig Sts.
H. F. VAN CUREN, Prop.
Be a patron of the shop where all the Tech men go
Subscriptions to the Tartan for the balance of 
*the School Year may be obtained from the Man-T
* ager or Assistants at the rate of 50c.
**
“The lips that touch liquor shall never touch mine;” 
Said a maiden with zest quite divine;
Then responded the man with the wickedest glee, 
“The maidens that kiss poodles shall never kiss me.”
—Hillsdale Collegian.
One hundred and forty oarsmen are out for the 
crew at the University of Pennsylvania.

---------------------------------------------------

1 Oswald Werner & Sons Co
W Pittsburgh’s Oldest and Largest
Dyeing and Cleaning Works* SILK REP SCARFS—
% most satisfactory Cravat made—slips
J easily through collar, wears well, sty-
* lish.
$ Variety new colors, Rep Silk Scarfs
5 50 cents.
GEO. K. STEVENSON & CO. 
Fine Groceries Table Delicacies 
Cakes and Candies 
Two Stores:
606 Wood Street, Downtown 
Highland and Center Avenues, E. E.
(7/ Bell Phone
hi DRESS SUIT RENTAL CO. ft
O 522 Pittsburg Life Building ^
U) Liberty Ave. and Sixth St., Pittsburg, Pa.
(u We have for rental Full Dress Suits, Tuxedos, Prince (UW Alberts, White Vests, Opera Hats. Q
0<0n0<0<0<0<050<0r0<0n0<0<0<0<0<0<0—Do THE SCHENLEY FARMS ** 0
$ The Garden Spot of Pittsburgh £•
The place to live for convenience, pleasure and £
8 profit. &
MELLON NATIONAL BANK
514 SM ITH FI ELD STREET 
+09 IIFTH AVENUE
SOLICITS THE ACCOUNTS OF
STUDENTS
CAPITAL
SURPLUS
$4,000,000
$3,300,000
O. C. HENRY 
321 Fifth Avenue
PHOTOGRAPHS 
We make a specialty of School Groups, Class 
and Fraternity Pictures 
Prices the lowest and work the best
Bellefield Presbyterian Church
CAMPBELL COYLE, Minister
9.45 a. M.—Brotherhood Bible Study. 4*_ j, A
i3®SJ5JBM3iSeii3MSM3M3f3M3M3MSiSM3IBlSiJ5M03M3Mo 4c 11:00 A.M.—Morning Service. 4»II? i
Bell Phone Cleaning, Dyeing, g * 7:00 P.M.—Y. P. S. C. E. +
1212-J Schenley Repairing and Pressing [I] * •£*
LIEBLiIlTG BEOS § 4* 8:00 P.M.—Evening Service. 4*§ *8*------Merchant Tailors------ 1 * +
327 South Craig? St. Pittsburg, Pa. 1 * A" Tech Acuity and Student Body Welcome *
in * *5*SJ3JSM3J3EMSMMSMSM3J3J3i3JB13J3M3MMSEJ5®IS®3HSJSJ' *4>4>4>4*4>4»!<4>>3a4‘>!”!14*4*4*4*4*4*,fr*i',,l,,l*4*4*iI»4'*i'
jy,fflw' The World’s Best Hatters Make £
Soft Hats and Caps for Comfort, Sport or 
Travel. Derbies, Silk and Opera Hats for 
Dress. The best only from the World’s Best 
Hatters.
OTTO OETTING J J
Seventh & Smithfield. Fifth & Wylie. £ *
*4»**%4A *\4>Vi*VI'\4*V!>\4*\4>\4'%4>\*\*V!>Vf>\*$t'i>Vi'V!'Vi>Vi'X
16THE TARTAN
