Cindy Sheehan: Folk 
hero or national 
disgrace? All
Men’s soccer beats 
Marietta team 5-0 
A14
SuicideGirls: there’s 
more to these pin-ups 
than piercings B6
THE TARTAN
Volume IOO, Issue 2 Carnegie Mellon s Student Newspaper since 1^06 12 September 2005
by Brittany McCandless
Assistant News Editor
& Shephalie Lahri
Junior Staffwriter
Tulane University first-year 
Arthur Leslie hadn’t quite been 
oriented to college before Hur­
ricane Katrina forced him and all 
his new classmates to evacuate. 
How long had he been at Tulane? 
“Only three or four hours,” Leslie 
explained as he squinted in the 
bright Pittsburgh sun last week. 
He is just one of approximately 
25 displaced Tulane students who
will be attending Carnegie Mellon 
this semester.
After Leslie moved into his new 
room at Tulane, all students were 
handed a strip of paper that told 
them they had to evacuate but 
could leave their belongings in the 
dorm. “I got my computer, three 
changes of clothes, and just left,” 
he said.
That was the Saturday before 
the hurricane. Tulane president 
Scott Cowen originally told stu­
dents that they would be return­
ing by Wednesday, but when 
Katrina arrived, the destruction 
forced him to cancel classes for
the fall semester.
“I’m still kind of in a daze,” said 
Leslie, who arrived in Pittsburgh 
last Tuesday and began classes 
last Wednesday.
Leslie chose to start this fall 
at Carnegie Mellon, one of the 
schools he looked at as a high 
school senior, because out of all 
the institutions that he looked into 
after Hurricane Katrina, Carnegie 
Mellon was one of three that could 
guarantee him housing.
The Office of Student Affairs co­
ordinated on-campus housing for
See RELIEF, page A3
Above: Students athletes at 
the University of Maryland 
collect donations from Mary­
land Terrapins fans for the 
American Red Cross Hurricane 
Relief Fund. Campuses across 
the country have organized re­
lief projects to help displaced 
residents. Carnegie Mellon 
has invited students from Tu­
lane University to spend their 
fall semester in Pittsburgh; 
other efforts include a collabo­
ration with Brother’s Brother 
Foundation and raising money 
through a “Dollar Challenge.”
Country’s universities 
welcome students from 
Louisiana, Mississippi
by Elizabeth Schwartz
Junior Staffwriter
Among millions of Hurricane 
Katrina victims in Louisiana 
and Mississippi, local college 
students are also feeling the 
jarring effects of the disas­
ter. August’s storm hit Tulane 
University, Loyola University- 
New Orleans, Dillard University, 
and the University of New 
Orleans hardest. Tulane and 
Loyola, in the mean time, have 
set up temporary offices in the 
city of Houston.
Tulane’sand Loyola’s web­
sites state that the schools will 
be closed for the entirety of the 
fall 2005 semester. Once the city 
of New Orleans becomes habit­
able again, Dillard University 
plans on opening its doors 
and welcoming students back. 
As for the University of New 
Orleans, chancellor Timothy 
P. Ryan stated on the website 
that he estimates classes will 
begin sometime within the next 
month.
Damage to the campuses 
ranges from uprooted trees to 
roof and water damage. “The 
campus sustained some dam­
age ... although nothing as bad 
as the stuff on TV,” said Trevor 
Dowd, a Tulane ’08 business 
major. A levee break by the cam­
pus of Dillard University caused 
an estimated five to eight feet 
of water to accumulate in and 
around academic buildings. 
Loyola University’s emergency 
website reports that the recov­
ery process has begun and there 
are “personnel onsite assessing 
the damage and making neces­
sary emergency repairs.”
State officials did not allow 
some students returning from 
summer vacation into the city, 
including Josh Berg, a junior 
majoring in history and tech­
nology at Tulane. “Some friends 
and I stayed at a hotel outside 
of the city for a few days, then 
I flew to American [University 
in Washington, D.C.], where 
I’m going to finish the semes­
ter,” recalled Berg. “If I didn’t, I 
would lose my tuition.”
Support has poured in from 
other colleges and universities 
across the country. Georgetown 
University, the University of 
Pennsylvania, and Vanderbilt 
University are just a few insti­
tutions offering courses to dis­
placed students at no charge to 
them. Other universities such 
as Duke and Franklin Pierce in 
New Hampshire are offering 
full tuition, room, and board to 
students from the universities’ 
respective regions. Carnegie 
Mellon has already welcomed 
ten students and expects more 
in the upcoming weeks.
In order to simplify the trans­
fer process, many colleges and 
universities have extended fall 
registration deadlines and, with 
the Department of Education, 
have agreed on a relaxation of 
certain regulations regarding 
financial aid for all students 
affected by Hurricane Katrina.
See UNIVERSITIES, page A3
Rehnquist deferred to 
universities during term
Two weeks later; police and protestors still at odds
Pittsburghers may face 
higher fuel prices and 
possible shortages
by Matthew McKee
Junior Staffwriter 
& Alexandra Kilduff
News Editor
Three weeks after city police 
and protestors collided outside 
an Army recruitment station 
in Oakland, tensions and emo­
tions are still running high. 
Protestors are currently filing 
complaints with the Munici­
pal Investigations Department 
and the Citizens Police Review 
Board (CPRB). The Pittsburgh 
City Council has decided to hold 
a meeting regarding the proper 
use of Tasers. But according to 
those involved, the issues that 
arose from the conflict will not 
easily be resolved.
The Pittsburgh Organizing 
Group (POG), a local organiza­
tion spearheading the counter­
recruitment protests in Oakland, 
wrote on its website: “What 
happened on August 20th and 
the days that followed was a de­
fining moment for Pittsburgh’s 
peace and justice community.” 
David Meieran of POG said that 
his organization is pursuing a 
two-step approach in demand­
ing complete accountability 
from the Pittsburgh police force 
and calling for a total ban on 
Taser use.
The individual complaints 
concerning the police force’s 
handling of the situation are 
currently being processed by 
the CPRB. However, CPRB Ex­
ecutive Director Beth Pittinger 
said that those protestors filing 
the complaints “have declined 
to follow through” and have 
neglected to give more infor­
mation. “I mean, what’s their 
point?” she said.
Since the protest, Tasers have 
emerged as a subject of heated 
discussion. On September 1, the 
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette wrote: 
“Councilman Sala Udin, who
pushed for legislation passed 
in February allowing the Police 
Bureau to buy Tasers, said he 
did so ‘to prevent the loss of life’ 
and not ‘to use Taser guns for 
crowd control or for someone 
who was mildly resisting offi­
cers’ orders or arrest.’”
The Pittsburgh City Council 
held a televised meeting on Au­
gust 24 to discuss Taser use and 
is planning to launch an inves­
tigation into the police’s use of 
the tools on August 20. Nathan 
Shaffer of the POG asserted that 
the demonstrators did not do 
anything to provoke the use of 
Tasers.
Pittinger, who has reviewed 
films of the August 20 inci­
dent, disagrees. “Frankly, what 
happened on August 20 had a 
little mix of everything,” she 
said, referring to the protestors’ 
behavior. “We saw the whole 
gamut of police conduct, too. 
Some were consummate profes­
sionals; others were just looking 
for a fight.”
Pittinger also pointed out 
that the Pittsburgh police do 
not have a set policy on crowd 
management. “That’s a liability 
for them.... The officers on the 
scene didn’t know what their 
parameters were.” Mike Seate 
of the Pittsburgh Tribune-Review 
said that the police gave the 
“wrong answer” to the protes­
tors and that the city cannot 
afford the legal ramifications 
of the blunder. “The city is just 
plain broke. That’s all there is to 
it,” he said.
Meieran said that the POG 
will continue its counter­
recruitment efforts, and Shaffer 
affirmed that POG will continue 
its “tactic of assertive nonvio­
lence.”
On Saturday, the POG and 
other groups continued their 
campaign by once again protest-
See TENSIONS, page A5
Roughly 30 demonstrators gathered in front of the Army recruiting station 
on Forbes Avenue to protest Army recruiting techniques on September 10. 
Police remained at the edges of the sidewalk.
by Andrew Peters 
& Claire Morgenstern
Junior Staffwriters
With the recent death of Su­
preme Court Chief Justice Wil­
liam Rehnquist, questions have 
been raised regarding the future 
of higher education in the hands 
of his successor, John G. Roberts. 
The late Rehnquist’s decisions 
were met with favorable senti­
ments from University officials; 
despite his image as an unwaver­
ing conservative, Rehnquist was
See REHNQUIST, page A3
Courtesy of nndb.com
Former Cheif Justice William 
Rehnquist died on September 3. He 
served as Chief Justice for 19 years.
by Steven Spurgeon
Junior Staffwriter 
& Alexandra Kilduff
News Editor
Increasing prices are just the 
beginning. After the recent 
catastrophe caused by Hurricane 
Katrina, consumers are now fac­
ing long lines, fuel shortages, 
and astronomical costs at the gas 
pump.
In western Pennsylvania alone, 
gas prices rose an average of 
55.4 cents to $3.05 a gallon, 
according to a survey con­
ducted by AAA (formerly 
the American Automobile 
Association). For com­
parison, gas prices in 
Pennsylvania were an 
average of $1.81 just 
one year ago. The 
Pittsburgh BusinessSee GASOLINE, page A5
Alejo Grigera/Art Staff
www.thetartan.org

---------------------------------------------------

If you would like to and the name of the ar-
submit a correction or tide. We will print the
clarification, please correction or clarification
e-mail The Tartan at in the following week’s
news@thetartan.org or issue.
editor@thetartan.org 
with your inquiry, as well 
as the date of the issue
StatisticallySpeaking
Hurricane Katrina has left scars on millions of Southern citizens and 
the economy of the United States as a whole. Here are some facts 
about the catastrophe that you might not have heard on the news:
Total length of levees in New Orleans, in miles: 350t
Percent of city covered in water at one point: 80
Approximate number of college students displaced
by Katrina: 100,000
Lost daily oil output from the Gulf Coast, in barrels: 1.4 million
Amount of funding previously shifted from FEMA
emergency preparedness to ODP counterterrorism: $800 million
Number of doctors Cuba offered in aid to U.S. for
Katrina: 1000
Sources: news.nationalgeographic.com, en.wikipedia.org, 
quote.bloomberg.com, yubanet.com, www.newsday.com
Compiled by 
Meg Richards
Suspicious Person
6 September 2005 at 
12:00
Three female students 
reported that a white man 
with a shaved head and no 
shirt driving a silver Honda 
Accord stopped them out­
side Doherty Apartments, 
claimed he was an employee 
of MTV, and asked the girls 
to streak for the camera. He
A student in Wean Hall re­
ported that her wallet was 
stolen while she was mak­
ing copies in a copy room. 
She stated that she laid 
her wallet next to the copy 
machine, bent over to flip 
a switch, and then noticed 
the wallet was gone only a 
short time later.
A3______________________________________________________________________THE TARTAN » SEPTEMBER 12. 2005
Executive
Privilege
Bradford L. Yankiver
On behalf of the entire staff of The 
Tartan, we extend our warmest wel­
come to our new fellow students from 
the Gulf Coast. We hope that our com­
munity can offer you a friendly, com­
fortable, and engaging environment. 
(That said, we apologize in advance 
for November and December. It’s 
pretty rough.)
The human disaster that followed 
Hurricane Katrina touched everyone 
in this nation, and we will feel for 
some time the storm’s effects through 
friends and family who were directly 
affected and through our depressed 
economy.
Doubt and uncertainty are terrible 
feelings at any time, and when such a 
devastating event occurs, we all tend 
to search feverishly for information 
— trying to feel more in control, more 
safe. This instinctive need for infor­
mation makes comprehensive news 
coverage so important in perilous 
times. The Tartan’s editors recognized 
that need for information, publishing 
an online news brief last Tuesday. In 
this issue, we’ve expanded our cover­
age of Katrina’s effects on our cam­
pus. But we have not let other news 
events fall by the wayside, as some 
media sources Have done recently. In 
Forum, the editorial board comments 
on its observation that cable televi­
sion networks, in particular, failed to 
avoid “tunnel vision” and neglected 
to report on other influential national 
and world events.
While this issue is focused on 
the hurricane’s aftermath, we’ve 
tried to avoid the pitfall of narrow­
sightedness. Our news writers report 
this week on the heated debate among 
Pittsburgh officials, police, and local 
activists about Taser use and crowd 
control techniques among police 
officers. The news section also offers 
a review of the late Chief Justice Wil­
liam Rehnquist’s impact on higher 
education. In Pillbox, writer Janet Jay 
visits the website SuicideGirls.com, 
questioning whether its message falls 
into the category of nouveau feminism 
or if it’s merely indie pornography.
This week we’ve taken a step in a 
different direction for The Tartan’s 
coverage. In recent years, this news­
paper has limited itself to campus 
coverage. But there’s more to life than 
what happens on CMU grounds. As 
we broaden the scope of our cover­
age, however, we will keep campus 
news as a staple.
To that end, I have been working 
with members of student government 
as they develop a media policy that 
promises to protect our ability to cov­
er events on campus. The push for a 
media policy was born out of an inci­
dent at last year’s controversial Shaba- 
zz lecture. Held in Porter Hall 100, 
the event was limited to 234 people. 
Throngs of people who lined up for 
the event were turned away; student 
media was their only link to the event. 
When Tartan photographers began 
to shoot photos, two guards from the 
New Black Panther Party threatened 
the journalists. When our photog­
raphers appealed to Abigail Cyntje, 
then president of SPIRIT, she altered 
her position and forbade the pair from 
taking any photos. In the following 
week’s Executive Privilege, Editor-in- 
Chief J.T. Troliman wrote, “[W]hen 
SPIRIT’s organizers forbade The Tar­
tan to take photographs, they blind­
folded the entire student body — and 
all future students who might one day 
peer back through the archives.... No 
student organization should have the 
ability to unilaterally exclude any stu­
dent media organization from a stu- 
dent-sponsored and publicly adver­
tised event.”
I applaud the efforts of student gov­
ernment to bring a media policy to 
fruition. We hope that the policy will 
affirm the students’ right to an unim­
paired media, so The Tartan and the 
other student media organizations 
can continue to bring them the news 
coverage to which they are entitled.
How to help: Relief resources for Hurricane Katrina victims
iere’s a list of national and local orga- 
lizations that offer ways to help Hurri- 
:ane Katrina victims. Go online to learn 
nore about them and make a contribu- 
ion.
rhe American Red Cross
vww.redcross. org
rhe American Red Cross is providing 
ood, water, health care, cleanup sup- 
)ort, and information about missing 
)ersons to all victims in Louisiana and 
Mississippi. You can make a monetary 
lonation at their website or learn how 
o become a volunteer.
rhe Bush-Clinton Katrina Fund
vww.bushclintonkatrinafund.org
by former Presidents George H. W. Bush 
and Bill Clinton, is an umbrella orga­
nization for three funds started by the 
Louisiana and Mississippi state govern­
ments. As of now, the Fund is only ac­
cepting cash donations at their website.
Emergency Animal Rescue Service
www.uan.org/ears
The Emergency Animal Rescue Service 
works as part of the United Animal Na­
tions to rescue animals left behind in 
disaster areas. Go online to contribute 
or to learn about how to protect your 
pets in a natural disaster.
Convoy of Hope
www. convoyofhope. org
fhe Bush-Clinton Katrina Fund, started Convoy of Hope is a faith-based organi-
zation that delivers food, water, and ice 
to disaster victims. You can make a do­
nation at their website: just five dollars 
can purchase 10 bags of ice, enough for 
five families.
Salvation Army for Hurricane 
Katrina
www.salvationarmy-wpa. org
The Western Pennsylvania branch of the 
Salvation Army is accepting donations 
for Hurricane Katrina victims. To make 
a contribution, be sure to donate in the 
“disaster relief’ category.
Brother’s Brother Foundation
www. brothersbroth er. org
Brother’s Brother Foundation is a Pitts­
burgh-based charity organization that
is accepting both monetary donations 
and materials for “flood buckets” and 
“health kits” that they will be personally 
delivering to victims in Louisiana and 
Mississippi.
Pittsburgh Habitat for Humanity
www. pittsburghhabitat. org
The Pittsburgh branch of Habitat for Hu­
manity is accepting monetary donations 
for building supplies. Thirty percent of 
your donation will go to rebuilding ef­
forts in Louisiana and Mississippi, and 
70 percent will go to ongoing efforts in 
Allegheny County.
Compiled by 
Alexandra Kilduff
Science & Technology 
Science and Art
Forum
Grand Theft Autonomy
AISO:
Pros and Cons of Print Quotas 
No Pittsburgh Crowd Control
Pillbox
Zox Review
AISO:
Women’s soccer 
Volleyball
Also: 
Transporter 2 Review 
Campus Cooks
THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY
Hi 76 Hi 73 Hi 72
Lo 57 Lo 56 Lo 58
Sports
Football on fire
How Things Work 
SciTech Briefs
Weather
Crime
Incident
Camp Casey comes to Pittsburgh
Cindy Sheehan offers the camera a peace sign as she participates in a candlelight march to Soldiers and 
Sailors Memorial in Oakland after an anti-war rally Sunday. Sheehan was the main speaker in the “Bring 
Them Home Now Tour,” a national anti-war tour that started with Sheehan’s three-week vigil outside of 
President Bush’s Crawford ranch in August. The tour is sponsored by Gold Star Families for Peace, Iraq 
Veterans Against the War, Military Families Speak Out, and Veterans For Peace.
TUESDAY 
Hi 87 
L066
WEDNESDAY 
Hi 89 
Lo 63
Verbal Assault
2 September 2005 at 
10:51
A female student re­
ported that a panhandler on 
Centre Avenue was verbally 
harassing and assaulting 
her. Campus police trans­
ferred the call to city police 
who addressed the panhan­
dler. This is not the first con­
flict that the vagrant and 
the student have had.
Alcohol Amnesty
3 September 2005 at 
01:11
An intoxicated 18-year- 
old female student vomited 
on a bus, and campus police 
came to her assistance out­
side of the University Cen­
ter. Amnesty was granted to 
the student.
Intoxication, Theft
3 September 2005 at 
02:10
An intoxicated underage 
student was found dragging 
a wooden sawhorse from a 
nearby construction site into 
Scobell House. Police were 
notified and the sawhorse 
was returned to its proper 
location.
stated he would return at 
four o’clock for the “shoot.” 
The man was also reported 
at Chatham College, asking 
girls similar questions — in 
the nude.
Vehicle Damage
6 September 2005 at 
17:13 and 18:51
A Mercedes and a blue 
Acura were found by their 
owners inside the Tech 
Garage coated in cement 
as they were preparing to 
leave campus. Police are 
assuming the cement came 
from nearby construction.
Open Lewdness
6 September 2005 at 
17:55
Two witnesses in Hunt 
Library reported a middle- 
aged black man mastur­
bating in the stacks. The 
actor was stopped before 
leaving the library and the 
witnesses were called to 
the site to identify him. The 
man was taken to the sta­
tion and processed by CM 
police. From there he was 
taken to the county jail.
Theft
7 September 2005 at 
10:55
?{\

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN » SEPTEMBER 12, 2005
Campus community rallies to raise money for and spirits of Katrina victims
Marcus Gho/Photo Staff
Brothers of the University of Pittsburgh fraternity Alpha Phi Alpha held a 
fundraising barbecue at the Fence on September 4 for Katrina victims.
RELIEF, from Al
the Hilane students in areas such 
as Doherty Apartments, Margaret 
Morrison Apartments, and gradu­
ate student residence James Man­
or. In the undergraduate residen­
tial areas, students volunteered 
to take in Tlilane students for the 
semester.
“Our students have .been phe­
nomenal in that they really have 
offered housing,” said Interim 
Dean of Student Affairs Jenni­
fer Church, adding, “We’ve been 
very intentional by not picking 
any spaces that could be used 
by our first-years [in temporary 
housing].”
Coordinating classes and hous­
ing for displaced l\ilane students 
is one of many ways members of 
the Carnegie Mellon community 
are reaching out to help victims 
of Hurricane Katrina.
The Office of Student Affairs 
also coordinated a dinner last 
Tuesday for approximately 33 
Carnegie Mellon students who 
are from the affected areas. 
“We’ve been trying to figure out 
independently what the students 
need,” said Church.
“It was hard at first. It was hard 
finding someone who could relate 
to. you,” said Gabriel Nehrbass,
a senior in Social and Decision 
Sciences and History from New 
Orleans. “The info session really 
showed that CMU cares and had a 
strong support system for us.” 
Alexandra Stewart, a senior in 
psychology from New Orleans, 
was “shocked to hear how grave 
the situation was” for her fam­
ily and friends. Her mother was 
airlifted from one hospital to an­
other, the area around her high 
school is under eight feet of water, 
and some of her friends are tak­
ing time off from school to earn 
money “because they have noth­
ing and need to buy new things.” 
Stewart echoes Nehrbass’ sen­
timents. “There has been an enor­
mous amount of support from the 
campus community. However, 
some people seem apathetic to 
the whole thing. It’s so hard, but 
it helps to know that so many peo­
ple have come together to help 
others in need.”
Student Government and the 
Office of Student Development 
have been working to coordinate 
service efforts on campus, at­
tempting to bring together vol­
unteer initiatives from all campus 
organizations. .
As part of the centralized effort, 
M. Shernell Smith, Coordinator 
of Student Development and New 
House housefellow, is organizing
an ongoing tabling project in 
the University Center to collect 
money, health kits, and flood 
kits in conjunction with Brother’s 
Brother Foundation, a Pittsburgh- 
based international charity who 
will take the donations directly to 
the affected area. Any individual 
or organization can volunteer to 
work at the table.
“As long as people want to 
table, they can table all semester 
if they’d like,” said Smith. “It’s a 
quick start to something that’s 
going to be long-term.”
According to Smith, among 
the projected long-term efforts, 
a “priority” is taking Alternative
Break Experiences to the affect­
ed areas during the winter and 
spring breaks.
Members of the local African- 
American Greek organizations 
also tabled last week to collect 
money for specific families of 
Hurricane Katrina, including 
Carnegie Mellon alumni.
“We contacted some people 
we knew who just said, ‘We don’t 
have anything. We don’t have 
soap — we only have the clothes 
off our backs,”’ said senior drama 
major Khaliah Adams. Adams is a 
member of one of the contribut­
ing Greek organizations, Alpha 
Kappa Alpha sorority. Other Afri­
can-American organizations that 
led last week’s tabling effort were 
Alpha Psi Phi, Kappa Alpha Psi, 
and Omega Psi Phi, which are all 
fraternities, incorporated. Alpha 
Phi Alpha, an African-American 
fraternity at the University of 
Pittsburgh, is also organizing ef­
forts at Pitt and Carnegie Mellon 
to help flood victims.
On-campus Greek organiza­
tions are also pitching in by or­
ganizing a “Dollar Challenge” to 
be held on September 21. Their 
goal is to collect one dollar from 
every student, faculty, and staff 
member — a population that 
Interfraternity Council President 
Bruce Burnett says could provide 
over $14,000.
Student government’s main 
objective for Katrina relief efforts 
is to organize all of the service 
activities into a collective unit, 
both to increase the University’s 
contribution and to make it easy 
for organizations to get involved 
without competing with another 
organization for time and campus 
locations.
“What we think is most im­
portant is that we actually find 
out the needs [of the evacuees],” 
said Nicolette Louissaint, Student 
Body Vice-President. According 
to Louissaint, African-American 
hair products and school books
are among these needs.
Louissaint also stresses the 
importance of collecting money, 
adding, “We think there’s a lot of 
meaningful fundraising we can 
do because what these people 
need most is money.”
The Executive Board of stu­
dent government is planning a 
lecture series with several fac­
ulty members and are arrang­
ing a committee called Opera­
tion K.A.R.E., which * stands for 
Katrina Aid and Relief Effort. The 
lecture series will tentatively start 
in October and cover Katrina- 
related issues, while the commit­
tee will network groups for collec­
tive service initiatives.
Student Body President Tom 
Sabram agrees with Smith that 
campus service activities will 
last well into upcoming months. 
“Short-term goals are always 
strong and prevalent,” Sabram 
said, “but a few months later 
people start forgetting about 
what’s happened and forget 
that there’s still an area that’s 
still devastated and still needs 
help.”
“I am a person of action. Part of 
me wants to be there in New Or­
leans trying to help the city pick 
itself up,” Nehrbass said. “I can 
satisfy that by participating in 
events here.”
Every 100 extra Anytime Minutes with Sprint costs $5 
(Witn the other guys, you'd pay at least $35.)
Schools 
give aid 
and room
UNIVERSITIES, from Al
Among these changes is the 
decision to grant students aid 
for which they qualified, even 
if aid had already been distrib­
uted. Also noteworthy is the 
Department’s suggestion that 
displaced students be accepted 
as regular students instead of 
giving them “visiting student” 
status. By taking this step, col­
leges and universities can dis­
tribute financial aid efficiently.
Rehnquist’s educational legacy may be continued by Roberts
REHNQUIST, from A1
careful when dealing with issues 
of higher education to defer to 
the expertise of school admin­
istrators, said Mary Jo Dively, a 
Vice-President of CMU and Gen­
eral Counsel.
Justice Rehnquist supported 
the Supreme Court’s decision 
to require Virginia’s state-sup- 
ported military college, the Vir­
ginia Military Institute, to admit 
women in United States v. Virginia 
(1996). In Gonzagav. Doe (2002), 
Justice Rehnquist protected col­
lege authority while supporting 
the Supreme Court’s ruling that 
individuals cannot sue colleges 
for violating a federal law that
protects the privacy of student 
records — as stated in the Family 
Educational Rights and Privacy 
Act (1974).
He also supported moderate af­
firmative action, fighting against 
impersonal quotas but supporting 
the use of race as a factor in the ad-. 
missions process. Accordingly, he 
agreed with the Supreme Court’s 
decision in the 2003 Gratz v. Bol­
linger case to eliminate the strict 
race-conscious admissions policy 
at the University of Michigan’s 
law school, but dissented in Gruf­
fer v. Bollinger (2003) regard­
ing admission to the University's 
College of Literature, Science, 
and the Arts. Justice O’Connor’s 
majority statement approved the
Sprint'
Together with NEXTEL
If anyone deserves break it’s you.
Carnegie Mellon University faculty and staff can now give 
their wallets a break by saving 8% on Sprint PCS service charges!
Sprint PCS Fair& Flexible America“ for Families
Share 800Anytime Minutes for $69.99 a month on 2 lines!
Other montMy charts apply. See below.**
or less.
Also includes while on the Nationwide Sprint PCS Network:
• Sprint Mobile to Mobile
• unlimited Night & Weekend Minutes
• Adjustable Anytime Minutes
«Nationwide Long Distance. Every Minute. Every Day.
use of race as a consideration in 
the applicant selection process; 
though Rehnquist agreed, he ex­
pressed doubt in the law school’s 
motives in its implementation of 
affirmative action.
“I believe because John Roberts 
understands [higher education], 
we will see continued deference 
to administrators,” said CMU’s 
Dively. She also said that Roberts 
was a longtime partner of Hogan 
and Hartson, the same firm that 
represents Carnegie Mellon in 
its legal affairs. From her posi­
tive experience with the firm, 
she was confident that during 
his years there he “learned from 
them and gained substantial in­
sight and experience [regard­
ing] the unique culture of higher 
education.”
Not only does this University 
support Roberts’ position on af­
firmative action, said Dively, but 
it was also the instigator of the 
2003 amicus brief that testified 
that race is a justifiable contribut­
ing factor in the admissions pro­
cess and that it is in accordance 
with the Equal Protection Clause 
of the Fourteenth Amendment 
and Tide VI of the Civil Rights Act 
of 1964.
Thirty-seven other private col­
leges and universities nation­
wide added their names to the 
document.
The brief includes Presi­
dent Cohon’s 1999 Statement
on Diversity, in which he said, 
“Diverse perspectives and back­
grounds breed the intellectual 
vitality essential for the health 
and progress of the University. 
Simply put, becoming more di­
verse will make Carnegie Mellon 
and the work it does better.”
The Tartan contacted the Uni­
versity of Pittsburgh School of 
Law, but spokespeople there de­
clined to comment on any effects 
higher education might feel as the 
result of Roberts’ nomination.
Dively believes Roberts will be 
one of the contributing factors 
to the constant improvement of 
this University: “We will benefit 
from Roberts. Higher education 
is delighted.”
ATTENTION CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY EMPLOYEES!
VISIT US ON-CAMPUS AT THE UNIVERSITY CENTER 
AT 5032 FORBES AVENUE SEPTEMBER 12TH-14THS
Available with a 2-year Sprint subscriber agreement
To sign up, please visit us at the Sprint retail location nearest you or 
contact us via the Carnegie Mellon University employee telesales line 
at 877-842-2500. Reference Root Node 0047043131. Sprint retail 
locations can be found at www.sprint.com. Just click on the Store 
Locator link at the bottom of the page.
If you are already a Sprint PCS subscriber and are not receiving your 
Carnegie Mellon University employee discount, please call 
866-853-4931 to activate your discount.

---------------------------------------------------

mm
¦__
i......
Pining Am
************.................
:ms*m
dining
Less than 1 mile
from The University
Pittsburgh, UP MC 
and Carnegie 
Mellon University
Free High Speed
Internet Access
P.D.’s Pub
5832 Forward ave 
Squirrel hill(nextto squirrel hill Theatre) 4 1 2.42 2.502 7
Daily, Weekly and 
Monthly Rates
5405 Fifth Ave 
Pittsburgh, PA i 5232 
shadysideinn.com 
(412) 441-4444
Career opportunities
Asset Management • Card Services * Commercial Banking • Finance & Audit • In-Store Sales 
Management • Investment Bank Operations • Operations, Management Services & Technology 
• Private Bank • Worldwide Securities Services
We will host
Program .
Operations, Management Services and Technology Program 
Refreshments wiil be served.
For more information on our different divisions and 
career opportunities, please go to our website at:
<\y> ' , K ; . *
jpmorganchase.com/careers
An Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action Employer M/F/D/V. 
•© 2005 JPMorgan Chase & Co. Ail rights reserved.. .JPMorganChase O
EVERY
WEDS
PON 5ZEJK
(Trom Room to Move>
50$ WHOLE JUMBO WINGS 
Off the outside grill
$ 1
Miller ? MGD • Lite 
Drafts & Bottles 
9-llpm
EVERY
THURS
EVERY
FRIDAY
EVERY
SATURDAY
NORMAN 
NARPINI
^Pittsburgh's Rock-n-Roli 
LegendC
9-lam
Bud * Bud Lite 
Drafts <& Bottles
o
eoLteçe MÎQHJ 2s&*SS^SnI ¡wo m Ä. H- Coors Lite DraftsLive DJ
9pm
LIVE BA
Call for Schedu
*JS > m
b yT u
" ¦
10pm__________________
9pm
I:
Best location in
Pittsburgh
One block from 
Walnut St.'s 144 
rn shops,
fl entertainment and

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN « SEPTEMBER 12, 2005
Coijege students and faculty, buy a |ualifying JWac 
anfget a freertPod mini after mai|4n rebate*
Storese
WAL*MART
fiat everything for your dorm room at MMoiort.com ond still afford tuition. always low pricesV
City looks into police use of
Tasers; protests continue
TENSIONS, from A1
ing outside the recruiting station 
in Oakland. Roughly 30 people 
occupied the sidewalk and held 
up signs that requested passing 
drivers to honk for their cause. 
Many cars obliged; one older 
woman yelled from her window. 
“Get an education!”
Although police were present, 
they remained on the periph­
ery of the group, and protestor 
Bridget Colvin commented that 
“the coinmunity is generally sup­
portive.” When asked how long 
protestors would continue to
organize outside the recruitment 
station, she said, “We’ll keep 
going until the military stops 
telling lies to kids.”
Although the weekend’s 
demonstration proceeded peace­
fully, not all are optimistic about 
police-protestor relations. Seate 
believes that with the constant 
mindset of war and conflict, ten­
sions are unnecessarily high and 
that police retaliation to protests 
will only worsen.
David Meieran, however, 
hopes that for future protests, 
“the public outcry will make the 
police think twice.”
Gas prices result in rise of 
public transit use
GASOLINE, from A1
Times reports that gasoline prices 
are not likely to fall back to regu­
lar levels until November. In other 
parts of the nation, some stations 
are charging even more — if there 
is any gas to be found. Because 
of the destruction of oil rigs in 
the Gulf of Mexico, shipments of 
gasoline throughout the country 
have been delayed and some have 
been canceled entirely.
Pennsylvania itself is also 
facing the possibility of gas short­
ages and continued price hikes. 
At a press conference last week, 
Governor Ed Rendell proposed 
lifting the state’s 30-cent-per-gal- 
lon tax on gasoline, and men­
tioned that fuel supplies may also 
be rationed. Analysts say that 
while the tax break may lighten 
the load on consumers’ pockets, 
it will not bode well for civic proj­
ects currently underway that rely 
on such income.
In response to these increas­
ing costs and headaches, many 
Pittsburgh residents are choos­
ing to leave their cars at home 
in favor of public transporta­
tion. Pittsburgh’s Port Authority 
Transit (PAT) spokesperson Judy 
McNeil says that there is already 
an increase in the number of 
people using the Park ’n Ride 
system and calling the PAT cus­
tomer service line to learn about 
public transit in their area. Due 
to gas rationing, McNeil believes
that “people would have to make 
choices” about their commute. 
As for PAT’s ability to handle an 
influx of public transit users, she 
said “We liave the capacity to be 
able to absorb some more pas­
sengers into our system.” If gas 
prices continue to rise, McNeil 
sees the possibility of employing 
more buses, but for now, she said, 
“we have the ability to react to a 
larger number of passengers.” 
Amanda Zeiders, co-chair of 
the Pittsburgh activist organiza­
tion Save Our Transit, also agreed 
that gas shortages could affect 
students and other public transit 
users. She said that “this is an 
opportune time” to begin riding 
public transit.
Commenting on Pittsburgh’s 
public transit funding problems of 
last year, she said, “I believe that 
what it boils down to is a reliable, 
predictable source of funding.... 
I’m sure they [PAT] are going to 
be stretched.”
However, Zeiders is also con­
cerned with communities outside 
Pittsburgh. “There are other parts 
of the state that are really rural, 
that might not have a good public 
transit system at all.”
As far as student action, Zeiders 
and McNeil both encouraged 
learning more about Pittsburgh 
public transit as an alternative to 
driving. Zeiders said she believed 
more students should write to 
their legislators. In the meantime, 
she said, “Use the system.”
News.SciTech.Forum.Sports.Pillbox.Oomics.Photo.Art.Layout 
production.Copy.Web.Business.Advertising.Personnel.
You can find your niche. Your skills can make a difference. Join The Tartan.
Stop by UC 314 or e-mail contact@thetartan.org.
Share your space, but live on your own.
3;:.;... ^'0^.
no

---------------------------------------------------

Phi Beta Kappa members of the university 
community extend their congratulations to 
the following students, who were initiated 
into Upsilon of Pennsylvania, Carnegie 
Mellon's chapter of the Phi Beta Kappa 
Society, on Saturday May 14, 2005.
Elizabeth Winn Andreev 
James L. Araujo 
Michael Philip Ashley-Rollman 
Elizabeth Harrison Asplund 
Julia Elizabeth Bamford 
Diana Elena Carbonell 
Christopher D. Carroll 
Carlos M. Chadha 
Ying-Chieh Belinda Chang 
Renato Clavijo 
Kelly L. Collins 
Beth Miller Cooper 
Michael Ian Croland 
Jeff Bennett Cullers 
Suhana Tara De Leon 
Christine Anna Deforest 
Jonathan J. Dorando 
Carolyn Grace Elliott 
Adam Sheng-Wai Fang 
Michael Lee Gelman 
Stephen Michael Greenwald 
Michael Steven Hahn 
Catherine Lee Holler 
Daniel Jerome Kleinbaum 
Elizabeth Soohye Kwak 
Kimberly Danielle Lackner 
Dongryeol Lee 
Kelvin Lim 
May Jiamei Lim 
Theresa Michelle Lin 
Ruoran Liu 
Vikram Manjunath 
Nuveen Marwah
Laura Elizabeth Miller 
Bryan Carl Mills 
Joshua Daniel Mulkey 
Matt Eugene Osius 
Brian M. Pantano 
Thammanit Pipatsrisawat 
Suporn Pongnumkul 
Pongsin Poosankam 
John W. Ramish 
Timothy John Renshaw 
Frances C. Ritchie 
Akkarit Sangpetch 
Yeming Shi 
Sarah Elaine Smith 
Cheuk Lam So 
Frank B. Tompkins 
Samuel Peter Walsh 
Erin D. Weber 
Randall Midkiff Weinsten 
Michael Dacheng Wu
Only love can bring you back.
_./^!iMark Witherspoon Ruffalo
From the director of "Freaky Friday" and "Mean Girls"
IllKPfK BIS fiPHS/lffllMRli «illfffilU BEEIWIBM11IF1MSI SHI «WML rSllDIOIIlOll 0BF.FHB mJHmHKIRr “WffllOllillll» ”1
PG-13|PAraENTS STRONGLY CAUTIONED®»SOUNDTRACK AVAIIA8U ON ,
SONY MUSIC I SOUNDTRAX *So»« Hay aó tn*M>raprttt*fDr ¿hlMrmOmtn 13
SOME SEXUAL CONTENT
DKFAiviVVbRICS
inOpens September 16 At Theatres Everywhere
H&SS Dean’s List 
Spring 2005
The faculty and staff of the College of Humanities and Social Sciences 
congratulate the following students for their outstanding academic 
performances during the Spring 2005 semester.
BentonSamantha MondeCheryl Gering*Phoebe Wu*David Rush* (SHS)Michael Lee*GaurikaAnand*Donald MoelteeBrian GrayRachel Wu*Catherine Scudera* (SHS)Kevin LleblerJeaaamyn AnsaryMark MoyrtihanNurfarhana Hamdan*Grace VbonMichael Shaw* (SHS)Piper LincolnJoseph ArtusoMeghan MyersDaniel Hasumi-Diddeon* (SHS)Andrew Young* (SHS)Kangseop Shin*Fei Liu*Gregory BattagliaVincent Kar Chi Ng*Karen Heimstetter*Trey SissonZhlzhou Uu*Alexander BackAlison PeeblesAlexandra Horton*SophomoreeLaura Stephan*William LutzAllahaBhagatTimothy Renshaw*Kenneth Howie* (SHS)Lacey Anderson*David Stem*Brittany McCandlsss*Christopher BoetteVivian RodriguezGarrison HuGerrit BetzHelnrloh TeAbigail McUmber*Thomas ftntowFranoee RuizFaisal JawdatAshley BirtJames TetlowNeha Mehta (SHS)Samantha Bushman*David Selinas*Stephanie Johnson* (SHS)Michelle Bova*Brandi Tish*Ryan Menefee (SHS)Stephanie PmiJuvyrose Santos*Katelin JonesAmanda Bradford*William ToHarley MetcalfeDiana CarbonellJustin Schantz*Rahul KapurAliea BrownGin-SanTsaiMichael MorganMelinda CarbonellWendy ScottKathleen Kelly*Rachel Bryner*Greg Van Horn*Michael Mullen*AJIlaon CameyJoseph SellersMaria Kim*Yerian BuridtbayevMary WamockEmily NewmanDenlz CebenoyanTejShah*Jack Kbcerka*Maureen Bums*Julia Wei*Kyungdong ParkEdward Chay*Michael 8hebeflch*Mlchal KoHneeher*David CaballeroCecilia Weetbrook (SHS)Robert PetengeMichael Cheung*Anubhav Slnha*Jacek Krawczyk*Mercy Chang (SHS)Charles Wright*Guillaume Plgnol*Caroline ChowSarah SmithMargaret Kuoera*Mimi Chang*Eric Wrightlain Proctor*Victor Chu (SHS)Anuj SonlChlen-Wen Kuo*Terence Chang*Meagan YeeKevin PurtellVictoria Chun*Lindsay SpriggsIan KwongCharmalne ChenHye June Yoon*Marshall Roy*Jose CorreaSarah SteersSeung-Pyo LeeLena DickinsonJonathan Samuels*Anthony D’AuriaJameeStekMSu Bin Lee*Jamie Edwards*FreehmenAnnie ShenJacob DenneChartes StrighfYorrg LeeDaniel Feller*Elizabeth Alspector*Shouzhou Shi*Andrew Derlfleld*Rachel SvfnkeietinMkrfial LementowskiLucy Fortin*Gagandeep Anand*Gabriel Smith*Lauren DevitoJonathan ToDänen LiPierce FrauenheimJosephArizpeAmy SuntokeHeather DlprlmaDarren TomeStephanie Un* (SHS)Natalie Freed (SHS)Lauren BalderetonKonstantin SykulevRachel Dougnao* (SHS)Michael TonemeiraJonathan LoBeth Gilden*. Christine Beaty* (SHS)Sarah Taylor (SHS)Timothy DriscollCaryl TUmaStephanie Lo*Danleüe Griswold*Justin Berka (SHS)Lucy Terrell* (SHS)Carolyn Efflotf*Katherine TyterAnthony Luk*Michael Gross*Mark BlackmanDanielle TysonEmily EvansMarla Veronica Urenda Valdes*Alleen Ma* ¦Dana Guffey*Devin Blais*ShuoJIa Wang* (SHS)Rudl Feler (SHS)tsah&nm wan©Kanishka MaheshwariZachary Harris*Daniel Broekman*Sam Wille*U Feng*Qeoffrsy WillardRichard MasonSandy HoAshley Brown*Jessica Winn (SH8)Jennifer Fenrte*Melinda WffleTConstanoe Mennslla (SHS)Kristan Hoffman* (SHS)Julia Brown*Queenle WongAndrew FlshbeinDinah Wlnnlck* (SHS)Megan Miller*Joo HongVbonseong ChoeChiao Wu*Jeffrey FooteJeremy WortmanMichael MosenfelderJanet JayHannah ChoiAndrea ZlnKenneth Forgtt*Bel YangJeremy MoeesRandall Jones* (SHS)Mlnyoung ChoiNamek Zu*bl*David Fries8ung Hee VbonKakiaMoto*Adam KaeliVbunghee ChungEvan Gelacek*Stacey Zyzyck* (SHS)Ketey Moulds*Mustafa Khan* (SHS)Caltlin Corrigan** with High HonorsTara Gfflbreath*Sophia NagornayaJoanne KilgourVivek Devaraj (SHS)Michael Graham*JuniorsAlexandra Orgera* (SHS)Jie Woo KimTimothy DimondChristina Quzlk*Richard Bangs*Laura Palode*Kwang Jin KimThomas Ellopoutos II*Soott Helmendinger*Julie Beokensteln*Jane ParkPriscilla Kim (8HS)Anthony Falleroni*Benjamin Hoxie*8tephen BereiJun Hyun ParkTackjln Kim*Jennifer Fillo*Lauren Ingram*UHlan Bertram*Omar Pairis-Dlone*Courtney Kochuba*Brent Flore*Yfczmin IslahudinAmy Blckerton*. Krista PasHeldAllison Kolb*Camille HsherVljay JearanlGlen Biechoff*Benjamin Peihan*Carolina Kowalczyk*Isabel Gaidocki*Soo Jung*Ashley BlockShannon Pereira*Apama KumarYevgeniy Gayslnskly*Richard Kenwood IIAndrew Butler (SHS)Allison Pottem*Christina KungDaniel Gleeey*Use Kellner*Christine ButlerElina Rabinovich*Dongmln Lee* (SHS)Jason GoldsteinKimberly KettnerPaul Buyanovsky*Darbl RobertsJung Min LeeGeorge Haberman*Jlnee KimJusdna ChangChrista Romanosky*YlngCoraUElizabeth HerringSeong Ik Kim*Daniel Chaporf*Valerie Roth*Yu an-Yuan LiuZachary HolmanJeffrey KohnAlexander Chen*Leah Russell*Leslie MaricelAndrew Hong*Erin Kortoer (SHS)Elaine ChenIbra Sakauye*Cassandra MarkoeLauren HudookAndrew LeeVickie ChiangTyson SchraderRoderick Me Mullen (SHS)Jenny HwangKenny Lew*rTOUlBi UOfTIOmBDWya ShenoyElizabeth Mullen*Jason Kaleko*Daniel UebermannRyan CoonEugene ShluDeanna MutyeAlexander KalkeJimmy LoMatthew CorbettRebecca ShoreAditya Nagarajan*Ryan Keane*Jeanne Lorsflce* (SHS)Christian D’AndreaJimmy Song*Samantha O'ConnorChriatopher KlerCaRRn LovettJonathan De VrteeMichael Szczerban*Rebeooa ObieyArl KleinJeffrey MeldJaime DerringerUnTianDiego OppenheimerStephen Klump*Stephanie ManchinAnne Diglovannl*Jonathan Vogel*David Park*Claire Kranels*Kimberly Mason*Kyle Dominguez1-Ting WangTrina PfanstieiKevin LabuzStephanie MathiasMaxwell EganChristopher WatkinsJacob Portnoff*Juatin Lacheeky*NeHeea MilfeM*Bryan FergusonLauren Winkler*Clara ReyesGerardo 0. LaperalJonathan MflUoowskyChristine FHkriottoOlivia Wu*Anne Rooney*Grace Lee
s '
Ar ¦fAi4

---------------------------------------------------

Science Technology
O /
12 September 2005THE TARTAN
CMU Explores the Science of Art and the Art of Science
by Sheila Prakash
Junior Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon, known for 
its unique approach to multidis­
ciplinary initiatives, is poised 
to jump-start another semester 
with a series of on-campus en­
deavors intended to bridge the 
gap between science and art.
On the academic front, a new 
course called The Color of Min­
erals and Inorganic Pigments 
has generated considerable 
excitement among students. 
Spearheaded by the Mellon Col­
lege of Science and. the School 
of Art, the class will afford 12 
seniors (six art majors and six 
chemistry majors) the rare op­
portunity to roll up their sleeves 
and rekindle their inner Van 
Gogh — while working in .a 
•chemistry lab.
“In preparing this class it 
has struck me how painters 
and chemists work in similar 
environments (the laboratory/ 
studio), with similar materials 
(reagents/solvents chemical 
compounds/pigments),” said 
Clayton Merrell, associate pro­
fessor of art at Carnegie Mellon 
and co-instructor of the course, 
in a press release from August 
31, 2005. “Color will he the fo­
cus of our class because it is one 
of the most obvious and seduc­
tive areas of overlap.”
Recalling the days when art­
ists obtained their paints using 
the raw minerals available to 
them, the class will give its stu­
dents the chance to actively en­
gage in the artistic process from 
the ground up — a process fun­
damentally scientific in nature.
Said Margot Wilson, a senior 
in MCS: “Essentially, we’ve
Kjos/Art Staff
been learning about color and 
how it applies to science (wave­
lengths, absorption, primary 
colors — which are actually 
red, blue, and green, not yellow 
like we learned in elementary 
school) and to art (how vision 
works, the three different axes 
in which colors vary). I think 
this interdisciplinary class helps 
everyone in it gain a better un­
derstanding about how two dif­
ferent fields relate to each other 
and how together they form a 
more comprehensive and com­
plete understanding of our sub­
ject: color.”
“My personal view is that 
,there is no natural gap between 
chemistry and art, but that 
there is a natural connection 
between these two fields of hu­
man endeavor,” said Catalina 
Achim, an assistant professor of 
chemistry and co-creator of the 
class. “Artists have traditionally 
prepared inorganic pigments by 
selecting minerals that were ap­
propriate for creating artwork 
and by learning how to combine 
them to create desired, long- 
lasting, artistic effects.”
The curriculum is designed to 
further enrich the learning ex­
perience by exploring classroom 
themes on multiple levels. In ad­
dition to using analytical chem­
istry to facilitate and enhance 
their artwork, the students will 
be given the chance to visit the 
Hillman Hall of Minerals and 
Gems at the Carnegie Museum 
of Natural History, the Research 
Center on the Materials of the 
Artist and Conservator, and the 
Carnegie Museum of Art in an 
effort to rigorously investigate 
all aspects of the trade.
Although the course’s scope is 
expansive, its actual enrollment 
is tight. Interested students, or 
those who fail to obtain a. slot 
this semester, can view the final 
laboratory research project on 
the origins of color in the Uni­
versity Center later this fall.
Springboarding from art in 
chemistry to art in biology, the 
Regina Gouger Miller Gallery 
is housing a month-long exhi­
bition titled Animal Nature, a 
raw and somewhat disconcer- 
tingtour de force into the mind, 
body, and psyche of the animal. 
Originating as a web project at- 
www.criminalanimal.org, the 
exhibition features the bold 
and eccentric artwork of many
renowned artists attempting to 
wrangle and expose the “post­
modern animal.”
“Why animals?” asked Lane 
Hall, who came up with the 
CriminalAnimal website in the 
spring of 2003 while teaching 
at the University of Wisconsin— 
Milwaukee. “It is clear that even 
within the last year, there is a 
growing interest in the field.... 
When we study animals we 
study ourselves. When we rep­
resent animals, we represent 
ourselves.” Elaborations on 
these and other themes by Lane 
Hall as well as gallery director 
Jenny Strayer can be found in 
the Animal Nature guidebook, 
available to all visitors.
The gallery houses three 
floors of exhibits that range 
from the mildly amusing to the 
downright bizarre. Walking into 
the sparsely-lit first floor, one 
is immediately greeted by an 
imposing 15-foot white screen 
that is quickly invaded — this 
could catch you off guard — by 
a flurry of 15-foot cockroaches. 
On the opposing wall stands an­
other projection, titled “Burn­
ing at the Stake,” which features
— those of you recovering from 
your heart attacks will find this 
mildly satisfying — a cockroach 
burning at the. stake. For bet­
ter or worse, both pieces are 
notable for showcasing the un­
seemly but undeniably humane 
facial features of the cockroach
— a resemblance that makes 
hooting and hollering at their 
execution somewhat difficult.
Touring the gallery in its en­
tirety, visitors can examine the
various ways artists interpret 
animals and their relation­
ships towards them. Another 
striking projection, this one 
on the second floor, is Per 
Maning’s “Breather.” Inspired 
by news of his dog’s terminal 
illness, this black-and-white 
cinematographic “experience” 
comes complete with a disori­
enting Blair Witch Project-like 
tromp over an endless stretch 
of sandy terrain — all from the 
perspective of a frantic and 
unhinged animal. After much 
commotion, the feature natu­
rally segues into a prolonged 
face-to-face staredown with a 
stupendously large cow. The 
quirky photography and crisp 
sound effects make for an en­
tertaining viewing experience, 
to say the least.
Video projections are but 
a few of the multifarious ex­
hibits on display. Visitors can 
wear ape gloves and examine 
books and photographs, lis­
ten to a collection of lyrebird 
songs, digitally interact with 
microorganisms, or peer over 
the edge of a well and watch a 
sheep helplessly contemplate 
its doom.
Animal Nature is open 
through October 2, 2005. The 
Regina Gouger Miller Gallery 
is located in the Purnell Cen­
ter for the Arts and is open 
Tuesday through Sunday from 
11:30 am to 5 pm. Make sure 
you ride the elevator between 
floors — you don’t want to 
miss the buck-toothed danc­
ing grandmother eating hams 
from a conveyor belt.
Faux giraffe print hides on the wall of the third floor of the Regina Gouger Miller Gallery, part of the Animal Nature Exhibit, illustrates the 
interaction between science and art.
SciTechBriefs
Warning signals in smart 
cars to reduce driving 
accidents
Through features like vibrating seats 
and refreshing citrus and peppermint 
scents, scientists hope to reduce the 
rate of car accidents. Warning signals 
to our senses will be incorporated 
into vehicles to keep drivers alert and 
awake. This development will add a 
new dimension to reaction time, which 
may eliminate 10-15 percent of acci­
dents on the road. By stimulating the 
senses, designers are hoping to create 
features for future smart cars that will 
improve road safety.
Source: MSNBC
Advanced parking meters 
harder to fool
Due to remote sensors, the art of 
cheating parking meters is dying. In 
Monterey, Calif., and Chicago, 111., 
parking enforcers no longer chalk tires 
on vehicles that exceed the time limit. 
Instead, they drive mini carts with GPS- 
cameras that scan license plates and 
report how long a car has occupied 
a given space. A wire grid installed 
underneath the pavement triggers a 
sensor when a car enters or leaves a 
parking spot. Signals sent over a wire­
less network to parking enforcers alert 
them of possible violations. The meter 
will reset when a car leaves a parking 
space so the next driver is unable to use 
the excess.
Source: MSNBC
Coffee best antioxidant 
source for Americans?
According to a new study, coffee is 
one of the top sources of antioxidants, 
agents that combat the effects of free 
radicals in the body. Date fruits have 
the greatest concentration of antioxi­
dants per serving size. However, coffee 
takes the lead as a source of antioxi­
dants for Americans due to consump­
tion levels. The average person obtains 
about 1300 milligrams of antioxidants 
a day from coffee. Unfortunately, con­
suming too much caffeine can cause 
high blood pressure, stomach pain, and 
increased heart rates, so it is important 
not to drink excessive amounts.
Source: TIME
Anti-aging hormone 
found in mice
Hto Eat
Sean Conroy
Before we get started, I’d 
like to take this opportunity 
to thank Bill Nicoll, our faith­
ful How Things Work guy, for 
writing this column for the 
past year. Bill is off to Germa­
ny for a year of study abroad. 
He will be sorely missed. Bill is 
already sorely missed, mosdy 
by me, who had to sub for him 
this week.
After Hurricane Katrina 
came and went, those left 
behind were stranded with 
nothing to eat. Those who 
had not stocked up on food 
probably came by their meals 
via .an extremely tardy Na­
tional Guardsman — and 
that meal was in thé form of 
a Meal Ready to Eat, or MRE. 
Because natural disasters can 
strike anywhere at any time, it 
behooves all of us to know our 
facts about this military man­
na wrapped in green plastic. 
Be prepared!
First of ail, the MRE is not 
imperishable. Under the 
wrong conditions, it will 
shrivel up. and die. According 
to the Army, the MRE can be 
maintained for three years at 
80°F or six months at 100°F 
and remain “highly accept- 
.able.” At 108°F, it won’t last 
a month. A word to the wise: 
check that expiration date.
Since its introduction, the 
MRE has been the prepack­
aged Meal continually Reject- 
. ed by Everyone. That is not to 
say the menu does not sound
appetizing! Delicacies include 
“Jambalaya” and “Beef Patty 
and Nacho Cheese Pretzels.” 
Unfortunately, sometimes the 
titles leave too little to the 
imagination, like “Chicken 
Breast Filet with Rib Meat 
Chunked and Formed, Bread­
ed in Tomato Sauce with Ca- 
vatelli.” Chunked and formed? 
I’ll pass.
Besides the entree, the 
recipient gets a number of ac­
cessories, including a flameless 
heater, crackers, a small bottle 
of Tabasco, and a chocolate 
bar. Of course, the flameless 
heater is the most important 
part. Hot nasty food is always 
superior to cold nasty food. 
In the past, soldiers would use
a small piece of C4 to boil water 
for their meals. But nowadays, 
instead of plastic explosives, 
these modern heaters contain 
magnesium, iron dust, and 
some salt. When mixed with 
water, the ensuing oxidation 
reaction rapidly heats the wa­
ter to its boiling point. To heat 
the meal, simply insert the 
heater and the MRE pouch 
back in the little cardboard 
box.
Rounding off the MRE is a 
special chocolate bar. During 
the Gulf War, American sol­
diers attempting to distribute 
imperialist chocolates soon 
learned that melted chocolate 
looks bad, even on camou­
flage uniforms. Thus it became
a matter of national impor­
tance for food engineers to 
find a way to make chocolate 
bars that do not melt in des­
ert heat. They used special 
emulsifiers that isolate fats in 
chocolate to prevent it from 
flowing. Even when melted, 
the separated fats cannot 
flow together to melt the bar. 
Choco Sol President Victor 
Davila explains in the July/Au­
gust 1997 issue of Professional 
Candy Buyer (yes, it’s real): “If 
you take water and add sand 
to it, the water will become 
less flowable; however, it is 
still liquid. When applying the 
same principle to chocolate 
compositions, the fat in the 
chocolate, although still liq­
uid at elevated temperatures, 
is now unable to become con­
tinuous. That is, it appears to 
be non-melting.”
MREs must be preserved 
for long periods of time. Food 
preservation revolves around 
eliminating the naturally oc­
curring bacteria in the food. 
Some MREs use a lot of chemi­
cal preservatives, but there are 
other ways to give food a long 
shelf life.
Dehydration is the coolest 
method of preservation and 
involves some subtle thermo­
dynamics. The food is placed 
inside a sealed metal chamber 
(think Time To Kill). The pro­
cess begins with a refrigera­
tor lowering the temperature 
inside the chamber. The food 
is frozen solid, isolating the 
water in the food on a molecu­
lar level from everything else. 
Next, a vacuum pump sucks 
air out of the chamber, lower­
ing the pressure to below 0.06 
atmospheres. The chamber is 
heated slightly, causing the 
ice to change phase directly 
into water vapor. This water 
vapor is then evacuated from 
the chamber. The process is 
repeated many times until the 
material dries out.
I ate an MRE once. I recall 
visiting the men’s room once 
every 20 minutes for several 
hours thereafter. So watch 
out during your next natural 
disaster, for internal disasters 
may also be coming! I would 
recommend a flavor or two, 
but unfortunately they’re all 
pretty horrific.
The lifespans of mice have increased 
with the aid of genetic engineering. 
Research showed that overexpression 
of the klotho gene, whose correspond­
ing protein works similarly to an anti­
aging hormone, increases the average 
lifespan of test animals by 20 to 30 
percent compared to control animals. 
These results prompted scientists to 
consider the benefits of this “anti-aging” 
hormone in humans. Although klotho 
plays a role in the human aging process, 
its importance remains undetermined. 
Furthermore, the effects of overex­
pression in humans are still unclear. 
However, scientists believe that if the 
klotho gene in humans were genetically 
manipulated, the length and quality of 
human life would increase.
Source: National Geographic
MP3 headphones found 
to damage hearing
Studies indicate that MP3 players 
cause long term hearing damage, due 
in part to the type of headphones used. 
Favored by the iPod crowd, among oth­
ers, insertable headphones can increase 
sound by up to 9 decibles. This may not 
seem like much, but recall that sound 
is measured logarithmically, and the 
difference between 80 decibels and 90 
decibels is like the difference between 
an alarm clock and a lawnmower. In 
addition, insertable headphones are not 
as efficient at blocking outside noise as 
those that cover the ears, causing the 
average music lover to pump up the 
volume. Bottom line: consider going 
unplugged.
Source: www.nytimes.com
Compiled by 
Mercy Chang & Radha Chitale

---------------------------------------------------

Are you Morgan Stanley?
> Which algorithm is more difficult to write: a stock-trading one or a chess-playing one?
> How would you increase computational power by a factor of one million?
> Your Linux server handles a billion dollar portfolio. How would you make sure it is secure?
> Which is faster for solving floating point intensive problems: 
multi-core chips or graphic cards?
Please email your answers to itbrainteaser@morganstanlev.com.
Morgan Stanley IT Invites You to Find Out.
w vv w. m o rga n sta n 1 ey. co m / careersiNFORMATION SESSION
Thursday, October 6, 7:00-9:00 p.m. 
Hamerschiag Hall, Room B103 
Refreshments will be served.
Morgan Stanley is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer committed to workforce diversity. (M/F/D/V) ©2005 Morgan StanleyMorganStanley
Experience change. 
Seize opportunity.
Do things differently.
Think about Barclays 
Capital.
Graduates
Think about everything you want from a career, and then ask who can make you 
the perfect offer. As an investment bank we offer a new way - an innovative and 
challenging approach to standard business practices and to professional advancement.
So decide whether you want to work for another firm, or for a firm where we actually 
do believe that our graduates are the future. With the support of an international, market- 
leading parent bank with a balance sheet of over $800 billion, we have offices in 22 countries 
employing over 7,000 people. Only seven years old, we are expanding every year.
Yes, we are a world leading investment bank, but we are also a meritocracy, where the 
individual is valued but the team is paramount. We truly believe we are different.
Applications for full-time analyst positions accepted from the undergraduate class of 
2006. Visit your Career Center to apply.
FALL 2005 - BARCLAYS CAPITAL 
UPCOMING EVENTS
Tuesday, September 20
Info Session, pizza, drinks and networking 
Connan Room, University Center, 6pm 
Open to Undergrad & Tepper students
Sunday, September 25
Resume Drop Deadline
Thursday, September 29
Technical Opportunities Fair
Friday, September 30
Business Opportunities Fair
Thursday, October 6
1st Round interviews
CAPITAL
www.barclayscapital.com/campusrecruitment
EOE
,A
Attention:
• Juniors
• 4th year students In 5 year undergraduate programs
• Seniors who will graduate after 3 years of 
undergraduate study
Are you...
• in the upper 1/4 of your class?
- interested in a career in government or public service?
- a U.S. citizen or national?
Then you should consider the
12::0 Sp r:in2t S'Tog2:eThw N:oE:2n
The Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation was established by Congress in 
1975 as the official federal memorial to honor the 33rd President of the United 
States. In particular, the Truman Foundation extols President Truman’s high 
regard for public service, his understanding of government, and his desire to 
enhance educational opportunities for all Americans.
In this spirit, the Truman Foundation (through the Truman Scholarship 
competition) seeks to encourage and support students (about 90 per year) who 
have outstanding potential for leadership in public service. Winners receive up 
to $30,000 for tuition, fees, books, and room/board ($3,000 for the senior year 
of undergraduate school, and up to $27,000 in graduate school [spread over 
two or three years of graduate study]).
Preliminary applications due: Monday. October 17. 2005. Up to 3-4 
students will soon thereafter be selected as University nominees, who 
will develop final applications for submission by late January, 2006.
Additional information: Information and preliminary application packets are 
available in the H&SS Academic Advisory Center, Baker Hall A57 or our website 
(www.hss.cmu.edu/aac/advisingforms.html). Interested students may also 
contact the Carnegie Mellon Truman Scholarship liaison: Dr. Joseph Devine. 
Associate Dean of H&SS. Baker Hall A57 Gd0x@andrew.cmu.edu or xB-6117), 
or consult the Truman Scholarship Program web page (www.truman.gov).
A I Ii

---------------------------------------------------

The School of Computer Science 
wishes to publicly acknowledge the 
outstanding academic achievement 
of the following students who have 
been named to the Dean’s List for 
the Spring 2005 semester.
You Are Invited
to a special evening of intellectual inquiry into 
one of the most controversial issues of all time.
Join Rabbi Shmuley 
Boteach, columnist for the 
Jerusalem Post, nationally 
- syndicated talk show host, 
author of Kosher Sex, as he 
expounds on:
"Why Jews 
Can't Believe
In Jesus
//
Rabbi Shmuley Boteach
Rabbi Shmuley Boteach is a win­
ner of the London Times, highly 
prestigious, "Preacher of the 
Year" award, the international best-selling author of 14 books, 
and an acclaimed syndicated columnist. He has hosted some of the world's leading thinkers 
and statesmen, including 
Mikhail Gorbachev, Shimon Peres, Elie Wiesel and Stephen Hawking.
Challenging Rabbi Boteach will be Dr. 
Michael Brown (Ph.D., Near Eastern 
Languages and Literature, New York 
University), Jewish believer in Jesus and 
author of the definitive work on 
Messianic apologia, Answering Jewish 
Objections to Jesus, Volumes I, II, III.
Dr. Michael Brown
Tuesday, September 20,2005 at 7:00 p.m. ' 
Holiday Inn Select - University Center 
100 Lytton Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
Admission Free
Flexible Leases
Live in Pittsburgh's best neighborhood in the 
area's only flexible leased building. Rent by the 
school year and have the freedom to go home 
in the summer without being locked into a 
lease. Rent either furnished or unfurnished. 
One half block from Walnut Street's shops and
restaurants.
1 Bedroom I iifiiriiislicfl $750*
Includes all utilities plus free High Speed Internet
1 Bedroom Furnished
$1295**
Includes everything, just bring a toothbrush
412-441-4445
fiftliayesiiites.com
* Minimum length of lease 9 months (two semesters)
** 3 month minimum stay required to qualify for this rate. 
24 hour service. Resident Manager. Parking Available.
I
Ahmad, ArbobFreshmanLevy, DavidSeniorAhmed, AmaniJuniorLi, RayJunior
Albertson, JacobFreshmanLi, YankaJuniorAndrews, JamesSophomoreLi, YimingSeniorAshley-Rollman, MichaelSeniorLiemhetcharat, SomchayaFreshman
Au, Carolyn Fay YinSeniorLim, ChenhaoSeniorAustin, CraigSeniorLiu, YuxiangJuniorBai, JimSeniorLuczkiewicz, BrianSophomore
Banner, MatthewFreshmanMaitin-Shepard, JeremyFreshman
Bayer, RobertsonJuniorMartens, ChrisFreshmanCarson, MatthewJuniorMeeder, BrendanSophomore
Casinghino, ChristopherSophomoreMills, BryanSenior
Chang, Ymg-ChiehSeniorMou, JosephSophomore
Cheah, Min ChungJuniorMoulton, RyanJunior
Cheamanunkul, SunsemSophomoreMurray, DavidSenior
Cheng, DanielSophomoreNg, Si YangFreshman
Chew, Sue YiSeniorOuyang, ZoeSophomore
Choi, SeungSophomorePantano, BrianSenior
Choudhary, SalahuddinSophomoreParasuraman, KarthikSophomore
Chu, AdrienneSeniorPashley, HarrietJunior
Coblenz, MichaelSeniorPatel, AnandSenior
Comer, KyleFreshmanPencoske, DanielFreshman
Cooper, WillJuniorPerkins, DanielFreshman
Cove, AndrewSeniorPfenning, AndreasJunior
Cui, MiaoJuniorPongnumkul, SupomSenior
Danaher, EvanFreshmanPoosankam, PongsinSenior
Deyoung, Henry,SophomorePrice, GregoryJunior
Dhammarungruang, BanchaSeniorQiao, ZhiJunior
Dhangwatnotai, PeerapongJuniorQuisel, ThomasSophomore
Difazio, CharlesJuniorRamesh, SridharJunior
Dille, MichaelJuniorRidmann, WilliamSophomore
Douglass-Riley, MatthewFreshmanRosenthal, StephanieSophomore
Economou, JasonFreshmanRothwell, ColinJunior
Fei, XiaoyiSophomoreRuttle, ThomasFreshman
Fok, Wing YuSophomoreSalamon, DavidSophomore
Gormley, MatthewSophomoreSanghi, RitikaSenior
Govani, TabreezJuniorSchmidt, KevinSenior
Gowal, SvenJuniorSchnarr, JoshuaJunior
Grafton, JeffreyFreshmanSeacat, LisaSenior
Gronim, William •JuniorSherman, JonahFreshman
Grubb, AlexanderSophomoreShi, YemingSenior
Guitana, YadySeniorSim, KennethSenior
Haines, WilliamSophomoreStade, EvanFreshman
Heng, Jian YongJuniorSun, KevinFreshman
Ho, Yan YinFreshmanSureshchandra, JayeshSophomore
Hoch, GregoryJuniorSurie, AjayJunior
Hoke, EvanFreshmanSuwannatat, PanuakdetJunior
Holcomb, RobertJuniorTangwongsan, KanatJunior
Hong, PhilipJuniorTarpine, RyanSophomore
Humphrey, MatthewSophomoreTasse, DanielFreshman
Jackson, CarmenSophomoreTeh, Seng KeatSophomore
Jackson, ChrisFreshmanTelgarsky, MatusSophomore
Jain, SandeepJuniorTokar, ClaireSenior
Jeon, YongjunFreshmanTsai, BenjaminSenior
Johnson-Roberson, MatthewSeniorTsang, Chiu YeeFreshman
Juba, BrendanSeniorUrwongse, TalidaSenior
Kalberer, JacobSophomoreValas, RubenSenior
Katona, AndrewSophomoreVerma, AwaneeshSophomore
Kedia, MihirSophomoreWang, JueSenior
Kehrt, MatthewJuniorWang, Wei-AnFreshman
Kirchner, TimothyFreshmanWarshaver, AndrewFreshman
Kirtane, LatikaJuniorWeitzman, DavidSophomore
Klipper, MichaelSeniorWiddowson, AndrewSenior
Knichel, JasonFreshmanWillen, GlennSophomore
Kousoulis, ConstantineSophomoreWilliamson, MatthewFreshman
Kraut, JoelSeniorWolbach, AdamJunior '
Lecompte, CarlFreshmanWright, MatthewSophomore
Lee, DongryeolSeniorYamany, TarekSophomore
Lee, HanJuniorYe, GangSenior
Lee, StephanieSophomoreYurovsky, DanielSophomore
Leffert, AkivaJuniorZhang, ChunhuaJunior
Lentine, MichaelSophomoreZhuang, XinyuJunior
Leszczenski, JamesSophomore
>v.*

---------------------------------------------------

Forum
12, September 2005THE TARTANPage AlO
iimi Okelana/Art Staff
Taser use reveals the shocking truth
Trigger happy cops spark broader controversy
The next time a peaceful public dem­
onstration gets out of hand in Pitts­
burgh, don’t be surprised if the police 
don’t know what to do.
The Pittsburgh City Police has no poli­
cies guiding its officers’ behavior during 
crowd or riot control. Such an oversight 
is surprising, considering the level of po­
litical activism this city has experienced 
in recent years and especially consider­
ing the infamous Hill District’s race riots 
of the late 1960s. It should come as no 
shock that the August 20 demonstration 
outside Oakland’s Forbes Avenue Army 
recruiting center ignited a firestorm of 
controversy.
This past February, when City Coun­
cilman Sala Udin pushed for Pittsburgh’s 
Police Bureau to adopt the use of Tasers, 
did he consider that problems like this 
might happen? In September, he told the 
Post-Gazette the legislation was to “‘pre­
vent the loss of life’ and not ‘to use Taser 
guns for crowd control or for someone
who was mildly resisting officers’ orders 
or arrest.’ ”
Something went wrong: police tasered 
at least two protestors in Oakland on 
August 20, and they used pepper spray 
on several others. The Tasers used 
weren’t simple, hand-held Tasers; police 
Taser guns shoot two barbed hooks 
straight through the skin, delivering up 
to 50,000 volts of electricity along with 
them. People have even died after Taser 
exposure, though it has not been proven 
that Tasers are a direct cause of death.
Beth Pittinger, Executive Director 
for the Citizens Police Review Board 
(CPRB), told The Tartan that during 
the confusion, “the rules of engagement 
didn’t exist; neither side knew what was 
going on.” But the sad truth is that one 
of those sides should have known, and 
that’s the problem.
In 2003, the CPRB asked for a crowd 
management policy from the Bureau. No 
policy has come. Instead, the public has
submitted a slew of complaints regarding 
police misconduct and inappropriate use 
of force - 4081 complaints since Decem­
ber 2004, to be exact. Not all could be 
solved with just a single policy, consider­
ing Pittsburgh’s police force is stretched 
so thinly, ever since City Hall decided to 
cut down on police and fire personnel. 
But concrete guidelines would mend a 
major hole in the force’s current set of 
conduct guidelines.
The problems exhibited by police on 
August 20 were not limited to the misuse 
of Tasers and pepper spray. No police 
commander was on the scene to over­
see the officers’ action, according to 
Pittinger. Why hasn’t there been more 
public outcry about the lack of crowd 
control policies? Yes, limiting the issue 
of Taser use contains the matter in a 
simpler, more media-friendly uproar. 
But both Pittsburghers and city police 
officers would be protected by a formal 
set of guidelines for crowd control.
Category 6
mportant news other than Katrina
There is no doubt that Hurricane 
Katrina was a great tragedy. The loss 
of life, land, and spirit should not be 
taken lightly. However, Katrina and her 
aftermath were not the only important, 
life-changing events to happen in the 
last two weeks.
For the families of the thousand Iraqis 
who were trampled or drowned to death 
on a bridge as a result of a bomb scare, 
Katrina was not even on the radar. On 
the national front, Chief Justice William 
Rehnquist died, leaving Bush with 
two openings on the Supreme Court, 
including the illustrious Chief Justice 
position. It’s enough to make one won­
der if people realize how much a few key 
rulings can affect their daily lives.
American TV news media has placed 
its focus solely on Katrina, failing to ad­
equately report on the events that affect 
the lives of citizens everywhere. Even 
here in Pennsylvania, media' outlets are 
not giving proper coverage to things 
that affect the state. Wouldn’t you be 
interested to know that the Pennsylvania 
legislature is planning to raise the mini­
mum wage by two dollars?
The beauty of modern media is that 
we have the communication technol­
ogy to gain knowledge instantaneously 
from all parts of the world. However, 
this distinct advantage sometimes leads 
to news’ greatest failing. Modern news 
outlets are always willing to pool all 
their resources' into whatever they judge 
to be the most sensational event at the 
moment, bombarding American sensi­
bilities with thousands of images and 
dramatic headlines.
This is not to say that Katrina is purely 
sensational. It was a terrible national 
tragedy, and citizens need to be aware 
of what’s happening to their neighbors. 
A week and a half later, however, the 
coverage is bordering on horror stories 
that are exploitative of both the victims 
on whom they focus and the audience 
at which they are aimed. Meanwhile, 
the rest of the world’s events are being 
ignored. Katrina can be considered a 
priority, but being narrow-minded in 
such a time isn’t going to do Americans 
any favors.
Our offensives have continued in Iraq. 
In Israel, the Gaza Strip remains a hotly 
contested territory. As of the writing 
of this editorial, another storm, by the 
name of Ophelia, is poised to hit the 
Carolinas, and the fourth anniversary of 
September 11 has just passed us by. All 
the events have gone seemingly unac­
knowledged.
Our nation is lucky in that terrible 
disasters don’t befall us on a regular 
basis. When an event like Katrina does 
occur, we need to empathize with and 
support each other as much as we can. 
But we also need to keep things in per­
spective: In other countries, thousands 
more people die every week of starva­
tion, disease, genocide, and warfare. 
Just because they don’t live here doesn’t 
mean their deaths aren’t as tragic, some­
thing our media has yet to learn. While 
the devastation that Katrina wreaked is 
still unfathomable even after the storm 
has been assessed, our awareness of 
other important events should not come 
to a standstill pending the rebirth of 
New Orleans.
Computing Services and the printing 
quotas: Are they really that bad?SliB
Michelle Bova
We now have a printing quota: forty 
dollars’ worth of paper per semester. 
Each time you print a sheet of paper, 
the printer eats up five cents of this 
quota. That’s 800 to 1600 pages, de­
pending on whether you print double­
sided.
It seems like a lot, but for students 
majoring in English and other paper- 
use-heavy majors, it’s really not. Stu­
dents taking a creative writing work­
shop are required to print or copy their 
stories for classmates. Printing four 12- 
page stories throughout the semester, 
for a class of 15, will use 720 pages 
single-sided. That’s almost your entire 
quota, for one portion of a single class! 
If you are verbose and write stories 
that are 17 pages, you’ll use 1020 pages 
of paper: a huge chunk of even the 
double-sided quota.
If you deplete your quota, extra print­
ing is not simply billed to your tuition, 
nor is a printing bill sent to your house 
at the semester’s end. The printer just 
refuses to print. You’ll have to go to 
a machine in the UC and insert cash 
to increase your quota. The harried 
student late for class doesn’t have this 
luxury of time.
Admirably, CMU’s new printing sys­
tem will save paper. The price paid for 
this savings is that a small group of 
students will be adding extra money to 
their printing quota while the major­
ity of students do not use their alloted 
quota. To use part of someone else’s 
quota they’d have to be present to let 
you use their ID card, which is unlikely. 
Though the majority of students aren’t 
going to use their quota, a select few
Franklin Williams
Since I’ve come to campus, one of the 
biggist complaints students have had 
about CMU Computing is printing.
In the past, two bulk printers, known 
as Pear and Grapenut, were housed 
in the basement of Cyert Hall. It was 
hoped that cluster printers would be 
able to cover smaller print jobs, leaving 
Pear and Grapenut to handle bulk print 
jobs. This ideal was not realized.
According to Computing Services’ 
three years of research, Cyert and Baker 
printers alone printed more than twice 
the amount of Pear and Grapenut, with 
50,000 and 20,000 pages, respectively. 
In response, a new printing system 
was set up to maximize print distribu­
tion and better control the number of 
wasted pages students print.
Computing Services was forced to 
make some well-researched changes. 
First, Pear and Grapenut were retired, 
as despite all their available informa­
tion, they were underused. Many stu­
dents never had an opportunity to use 
them and the majority simply didn’t 
even know they existed.
Computing Services then installed a 
new printer kiosk in the basement of 
the University Center. Each cluster has 
also received new printer kiosks which 
can print considerably faster than their 
predecessors, alleviating long lines at 
cluster printers.
Most important, though, is the new 
printing quota. In the past, students 
had been able to run large documents 
to any printer on campus from a remote 
location. To students waiting in a clus­
ter for a document, standing in line 
for a phantom student to retrieve their 
print job was unfair and infuriating.
m
I
are going to end up paying money out 
of pocket.
You might argue: well, you’re a writ­
ing major, and this is the price you pay, 
just like the architects must buy their 
special supplies. It is true, I knew I was 
going into a print-heavy major when I 
enrolled, but I assume printing paper 
is part of tuition. Since most students 
won’t use their full quota, it seems un­
fair that those few who do, not because 
of wastefulness but because of their 
major, must pay extra.
Don’t get me wrong, I advocate sav­
ing trees, but the new printing restric­
tions fail to solve some old printing 
problems. Long waits were an issue last 
year. Though the new printers operate 
faster, Pear and Grapenut have been 
shut down, leaving large jobs to be 
dealt with by any printer. Waiting for 
documents stands to get worse if very 
large jobs are now sent to local cluster 
printers as well.
More worrisome is that students 
who print a great deal will be penny- 
pinching their pages. Some students 
will be losing money. If you’re a writing 
major like me, you’ll be pushing dollars 
into the UC kiosk at midnight before 
you run to Cyert, while a large portion 
of others’ quotas goes unused. Yes, I 
understand that as a writing major I 
use more paper than most. And yes,
I understand that the rest of campus 
should not have to pay for my printing. 
But how is it fair to charge a student for 
printing when the rest of campus is not 
using the bulk of their quota?
Michelle Bova fmbova@) is a junior pro­
fessional and creative writing major. She 
is going to use the help of friends from 
CMU and Pitt as well as the trusty H&SS 
cluster to avoid giving CMU any more of 
her money.
Id
Even worse, students would often never 
show for the papers they had printed.
An even bigger problem was when 
a printout would fail. Fairly often, a 
student would print a large document
— say, 200 pages — and, for some rea­
son, the printer-computer communica­
tion would fail, resulting in hundreds 
of pages being wasted.
The waste of paper was completely 
unacceptable. With the new quota sys­
tem, students must be present to start 
their printout, ensuring that those who 
are printing do not have to wait for 
phantom students and making sure that 
students are available to cancel jobs, if 
necessary. Michael Rivera, ccon and 
Windows Technical Consultant, said, 
“I would like to point out that since the 
new printing system was established, I 
have had to recycle 500 sheets of paper. 
I used to recycle that much every shift, 
if not more.”
This allotment serves two purposes. 
Students will pay more attention to 
their printouts, as they have a limited 
free supply, and it allows for students 
who don’t need to print not to pay for 
printing they’re not going to use.
I understand that some majors may 
need to print large numbers of docu­
ments, but it’s part of your tract. The 
bulk of students on campus are forced 
to buy textbooks or supplies, which 
may cost in excess of $200 apiece. So 
think about it this way: I paid over 
$500 for my textbooks last semester. 
You spend an extra $40 on the paper 
you need to print your texts instead of 
buying books. Overall, the system is 
beneficial for you. You’re still saving 
money on buying a printer, so grow 
up — and use the benefits of the new 
printing system.
Franklin Williams (fhw@J is The Tar­
tan’s Managing Editor. His office is 
UC314A.
THE
JACKIE BROOK, Forum Editor 
JIM PULS, Online Editor
AMANDA FLYNN, Pillbox Editor 
RADHA CHITALE, Sci. & Tech. Editor 
GREG PRICHARD, Comics Editor 
ROBERT J. KAMINSKI, Photo Editor 
DANIELLE SAUDINO, Art Editor 
GREG PRICHARD, Comics Editor
Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 1906
BRADFORD L. YANKTVER 
Executive Officer
EDITORIAL BOARD
J.T. TROLLMAN 
Editor-in-Chief
FRANKLIN H. WILLIAMS, Managing Editor 
CHRISTIAN. D’ANDREA, Sports Editor
EDITORIAL STAFF
KEVIN CHANG, Online Design Editor 
ALLISON GALLANT, Layout Manager 
ARTHUR O’DWYER, Copy Manager 
EVAN SUNDWICK, Production Manager 
BRITTANY SMITH, Business Mgr.
ALEXANDRA KILDUFF, News Editor 
BRITTANY McCANDLESS, Asst News Ed.
ERIKA MATSUMOTO, Advertising Mgr. 
MARSHALL ROY, Asst. Forum Ed.
TIFFANY YUN, Asst. Photo Ed. 
LIZZA McGREGOR, Asst. Art Ed. 
MICHELLE BOVA, Asst. Pillbox Ed. 
MEG RICHARDS, Asst. Systems Mgr.
Staff
SENIOR STAFF
Albert Cohen, Veronique Lee 
COPY
Christine Beaty, Justin Brown, Elizabeth Decker, Anne 
DiGiovanni, Misha McShane, Sheila Prakash, Greg 
Price, Erich Schwartzel, Aprile Smith
IAYOUT
Jefferson Ahn, Connie Chang, Christine deBriffault, 
Donghee Kyung, Shephalie Lahri, Kristen Lukiewski, 
Arel Oran, Matthew Siegel, Ariane Simon, Hannah 
Soll-Morris, Shaleya Solomon, Reina Takahashi, 
Jessica Thurston
BUSINESS 
Katelin Jones, Rob Kraski, Jeff Reeves
The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded 
in part by the student activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students 
during the fall and spring semesters, printed by Valley News Dispatch, Inc. 
The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University. The 
first issue is free; subsequent issues cost $0.50 at the discretion of The 
Tartan. Subscriptions are available on a per semester basis.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are 
the official opinion of The Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial 
Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their individual creators. The 
Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication any 
copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters 
from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended 
for publication must be signed and include the author’s address and 
telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. 
Authors' names may be withheld from 1 publication upon request. The 
Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject any letter. Letters 
must be submitted by 5 pm on the Thursday before publication by mail 
or to forum@thetartan.org. Comments about and suggestions for 
The Tartan and notices of errata should be directed to The Tartan's 
independent Ombudsman at ombudsman@thetartan.org.
© 2005 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107
Office: University Center 314 Mail:
Phone:(412)268-2111 The Tartan / Bo* 1017
Fax: (412) 268-1596 Carnegie Mellon University
E-mail: contact6thetartan.org Pittsburgh, PA 15289-1017
I

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN • SEPTEMBER 12, 2005Ail
Presidential
Perspectives
Continuing 
everyone’s 
hard work
Tom Sabram
I’d like to thank everyone who 
has been in contact with either 
Nicolette or me over the past week 
about coordinating efforts for 
Hurricane Katrina relief. Nicolette 
will be devoting most of her time 
over the next few weeks work­
ing on establishing KARE (Katrina 
Aid .and Relief) and helping 
M. Shernell Smith from the Office 
of Student Development. I’d like 
to remind the student body that 
if you are interested in helping 
you should contact Nicolette 
(s5vp(@).
Additionally, I have spoken 
to all of the students who have 
joined out community from 
Tulane University, and would 
encourage everyone to welcome 
them to campus, which will be 
their home for the next semester. 
It is very important to remember 
that the affected areas will con­
tinue to need our help throughout 
the year; this isn’t a short-term 
relief effort, thus I will be return­
ing to the helm of student gov­
ernment as Nicolette continues to 
work with KARE and inform me of 
its status.
During last year’s Student Body 
presidential campaign, I promised 
to be more involved in campus 
events. I planned on achieving this 
by visiting a general body meeting 
of each campus organization so 
I could collect the thoughts and 
concerns from the members of 
your organizations. Please send 
me an e-mail (sbp@) if you would 
like me to come to one of your 
meetings.
Furthermore, I would like to 
remind everyone of the existence 
of the concerns@ e-mail account, 
which I read on a daily basis. Feel 
free to send suggestions and com­
ments to me and I will respond in 
a timely manner.
Nicolette and I are continuing to 
work towards opening the doors 
of student government to make 
us more visible on campus. To 
further our push to connect with 
the students, we want to remind 
you to feel free to contact me at 
any time, day or night, at (412) 
657-3953.
Finally, in the next two weeks 
I will be establishing my second 
office hour, which will be held 
during the moratorium and in one 
of the various highly trafficked 
areas on campus. I am excited 
to be working for the good of 
the entire student body as I at­
tempt to relate your feelings to 
the administration. Feel free to 
talk to me anytime you see me 
around campus, or stop by my 
office, which is room 318F in the' 
University Center.
Good luck this year and I look 
forward to serving you!
Tom Sabram (sbp(2>) can be found 
in his office at University Center 
318F on Thursdays between 3 and
4 pm, or you can call him at , (412) 
657-3953.
As we settle into the upcoming year, it’s time to start asking the hard-hitting questions. We asked:A PERSON’S OPINION
What major changes to campus would you like to see take place over Compiled by Dexter Hu, Deren Guler, and Magali Duzant z
the course of the upcoming school year?
John Thornton
Junior
Mechanical Engineering
“Bento Bowl and Pepperazzi should get 
signs.”
Jessica Thurston
First-Year
Modern Languages
“Keep the Zebra Lounge open longer.’
Viraj Narayahan
Junior
Social and Decision Sciences 
“New dining options on campus.
Steve Goldberg Sarah Kim
Junior Senior
BHA in Music and Writing Art
“The University should make up its mind “More studio space.
over whether they want Greek life or
not.”
Grand Theft Autonomy: Hillary Clinton, stop the crusade
Marshall Roy
Deaj Hillary,
Listen, I’m rooting for Clinton- 
Obama in ’08 as much as the 
next guy, but first we’ve got to 
get a few things straight: The 
United States is not a child, and 
you’re not its nanny.
I am, of course, referring to 
your recent outrage over the 
discovery of a sex scene in the 
popular video game Grand Theft 
Auto: San Andreas (I believe you 
described it as “stealing the in­
nocence of our children”).
I’m sure you know the whole 
story — how Rockstar Games 
originally intended the scene for 
the game, but then at the last 
minute decided against it, and 
instead of spending a great deal 
of jime and money editing all the 
code, they simply blocked the 
scene from the game. But some 
clever, naughty Scandinavians 
discovered how to unlock the 
virtual reality romp and shared 
their discovery with the entire 
world via the Internet.
And now you’re doing the 
unthinkable. You’re teaming up 
with Rick Santorum to propose 
media-related legislation. Rick 
a-wo man’s-place-is-in-the- 
home, sleeps-with-a-picture-of- 
Pat-Robertson-under-his-pillow 
Santorum. Look, I’m all for es­
tablishing alliances and building 
political bridges, but if you’re 
Gandalf, he’s Saruman. Is he 
really someone whose ideas 
about the media are sound? He 
told Jon Stewart that Victoria’s 
Secret ads are a grave threat to 
our nation. He’s a poster boy 
for hyper-conservatism and 
(sigh) happens to represent my 
beloved state, Pennsylvania, in 
the Senate.
Your bizarre partnership with 
Santorum notwithstanding, 
don’t you think you’re being a
little legislatively trigger-happy? 
The majority of the outrage over 
Grand Theft Auto’s computer­
generated jiggling came from 
parents who bought the game 
for their children, not knowing 
what kind of adult themes the 
game contained. They should, 
perhaps, be more outraged over 
their own laughable stupidity. 
Video games are not cheap; what 
kind of person drops 60 bucks 
without knowing what he or she 
is buying? Also, is there not a 
gigantic warning label, one that 
notifies the buyer that the game 
contains adult themes of vio­
lence and sex?
At this stage in our society, it 
is naive to think that only chil­
dren play video games. They’ve 
attained a level of difficulty, en­
tertainment, and artistry that 
attracts an adult audience, and 
therefore some games contain 
adult themes — violence, crime, 
pixelated penises, et cetera. All 
this means is that parents must 
now treat their children’s video 
games as they would a movie: 
look at the rating and decide 
whether it’s appropriate. Done 
deal, right?
These issues raise a very seri­
ous question in my mind. To what 
extent can we use legislation to 
protect people from themselves? 
You want to address harmful 
influences on our nation’s chil­
dren — what do you think they 
learn when they see adults shirk 
blame for their mistakes and go 
whining to legislators because 
they weren’t smart enough to 
read a warning label? I’m sure 
you heard about the grand­
mother who bought the game 
for her grandchild, then tried 
to sue Rockstar over the game’s 
content. I know this is America, 
but does “land of opportunity” 
really mean “make someone else 
pay for your mistakes”? What’s 
next, obese people trying to sue 
fast-food chains?
And how, exactly, can we be so 
sure that video games are wreak­
ing such moral havoc on their 
young players? Steven Johnson, 
author of Everything Bad Is Good 
for You: How Today’s Popular 
Culture Is Actually Making Us 
Smarter, recently wrote in a Los 
Angeles Times editorial: “Most of 
today’s games force kids to learn 
complex rule systems, master 
challenging new interfaces, fol­
low dozens of shifting variables 
in real time and prioritize be­
tween multiple objectives.” Gee, 
that sounds a lot like the skills 
required to survive at a premier 
university, or in the ominously 
looming “real world.”
Moreover, isn’t the entire point 
of a video game to experience 
something that’s not feasible in 
the real world, to have a fan­
tastic adventure? Why should 
we trust kids to suspend their 
disbelief when defending Earth 
from space aliens, exploring 
magical kingdoms, or quarter-
backing a pro football team, but 
not when they’re fleeing from an 
army helicopter in a stolen car? 
Why are we so afraid that that 
disbelief won’t kick back in? Af­
ter all, violence in children is at 
its lowest since 1975. Maybe we 
should blame disco.
You have a history, Madam 
Senator, of blaming the nation’s 
problems on popular media. Re­
member in Independence Day, 
when Will Smith punches the 
space alien in the face, and re­
torts “Welcome to Earth!”? He 
then triumphantly pulls out a 
cigar. You were outraged, and 
you blamed Hollywood for glam­
orizing smoking and making it 
attractive to young people. Why 
won’t you risk offending a few 
of your constituents and just tell 
them the truth, that ultimately 
it is their responsibility to instill 
values in their children? It may 
take a village to educate a child,
as you so adamantly believe, but 
the village is most educational 
when it includes lessons on how 
to be good alongside examples of 
what is bad.
In closing, Mrs. Clinton, I must 
agree with Rick Santorum on 
one point: “The development of 
adolescents is largely dependent 
on the environmental influences 
that are present in a child’s daily 
life.” From now on, let’s urge 
parents to make sure that they 
are the dominant environmental 
influence on their adolescents, 
and not vulgar outside forces like 
Grand Theft Auto or, worse yet, 
Rick Santorum.
Marshall Roy (mroy@J is a soph­
omore in English and creative 
writing. He doesn’t much like video 
games; he likes it when people take 
responsibility for their actions. 
Speaking of which, he welcomes 
all responsible responses.
Cindy Sheehan exploits her son’s death for personal gain
Benjamin Hackett
It is disgusting, disgraceful, 
and dishonest to dance on the 
graves of one’s children for 
political gain. Yet that is exactly 
what was slated, for Sunday’s 
event in Schenley Park. The 
“Bring Them Home Now” tour 
made a stop in Schenley on Sep­
tember 11, bringing with it its 
standard fare of allegations and 
lies* and the methodology of 
preying on the emotions of those 
who hurt the most.
Before one jumps all over the 
argument contained herein, de­
fending Ms. Sheehan and all her 
wiles, let us examine the charac­
ter- of this woman. Why does her 
credibility hinge solely on the fact 
that she is the mother of a soldier 
who died in Iraq? Her beliefs and 
motives are of equal importance 
when weighing her sentiments. 
On April 27, at a speech given at 
San Francisco State University, 
Sheehan is on the record com­
menting: “We are not waging 
a war on terror in this country. 
We’jre waging a war of terror. The 
biggest terrorist in the world is 
George W. Bush.” Without even 
addressing the sheer absurdity
of these statements, one needs 
only to look at her belief that the 
United States is not interested in 
stopping terror; rather, that the 
United States is the terrorist or­
ganization. Anyone even slightly 
versed in history would scoff at 
this very notion.
But wait, there’s more. It’s not 
enough that the United States
This is the current spokes­
woman for the Democratic Party. 
Howard “Blame America First” 
Dean and the rest of the DNC or­
ganization are incredibly unwise 
hitching their wagon to Cindy’s 
star. Besides the obvious anti-Se- 
mitic undertones, the sheer idi­
ocy and pervasive lack of educa­
tion on American foreign policy
Sheehan went to fight for a cause 
he believed in. The members 
of his family, other than Cindy 
Sheehan, seem to respect this
— as is seen in a letter attributed 
to Casey’s grandparents, aunts, 
uncles and cousins, wherein they 
wrote: “The Sheehan Family lost 
our beloved Casey in the Iraq 
War and we have been silently,
There are many people who would seek to tear down American 
efforts to spread freedom and improve her own security. 
Typically, we call those people Hillary Clinton supporters.
is a terrorist organization in 
Cindy’s eyes, but let us ask Cindy 
what the United States’ motiva­
tions for waging this “war of ter­
ror” are. Cindy addressed ABC’s 
Nightline in a letter, alleging that 
the war in Iraq was a plot by 
conservatives to wage war on 
Israel’s behalf. As stated in the 
letter, “Am I emotional? Yes, my 
first born was murdered. Am I 
angry? Yes, he was killed for lies 
and for a PNAC Neo-Con agenda 
to benefit Israel. My son joined 
the Army to protect America, not 
Israel.” (PNAC stands for Project 
for the New American Century, a 
neoconservative think tank.)
shines through brilliantly.
While there is no valid reason 
other than fear of an emotionally 
charged backlash, commentators 
tend to shy away from this next 
point. While losing one’s son 
or daughter is a terrible thing, 
the mere fact that this tragedy 
befell Cindy does not make her 
an expert, let alone elevate her 
misguided words to gospel. This 
notion that a “gold star” parent 
has immunity of the tongue is 
absurd.
In Sheehan’s case, one can see 
a mother dishonoring her son’s 
memory and violating the prin­
ciples for which he fought. Casey
respectfully grieving. We do not 
agree with the political moti­
vations and publicity tactics of 
Cindy Sheehan. She now appears 
to be promoting her own agenda 
and notoriety at the expense of 
her son’s good name and repu­
tation. The rest of the Sheehan 
Family supports the troops, our 
country, and our President, si­
lently, with prayer and respect.” 
Also, while Cindy claims that her 
husband is on the same side of 
her ideological fence, it is worth 
noticing that Mr. Sheehan is ob­
viously absent at her Bush-bash- 
ing anti-military gatherings.
Alas, one would be hard-
pressed to find mainstream 
coverage of the thousands of gold- 
star families who have come out 
in support of the war and overall 
efforts to spread democracy and 
freedom throughout the world. 
On the fourth anniversary of the 
largest attack on U.S. soil, one 
must recognize the purpose of 
the U.S. on a global scale.
There are many people 
who would seek to tear down 
American efforts to spread free­
dom and improve her own secu­
rity. Typically, we call those peo­
ple Hillary Clinton supporters. 
Today, when one can look back 
at 9/11 and see its reflection in 
a progressive Afghanistan, Iraq 
the Model, the Lebanese evic­
tion of Syrian occupation, the 
Israeli pullout of the Gaza Strip, 
and the overall progress in the 
Middle Eastern region, that is 
all the justification for American 
actions and foreign policy one 
would ever need. So before you 
march on Washington under a 
Vietnam template, think — with 
intellectual honesty — about the 
progress that has been made.
Benjamin Hackett (bhackett@J 
invites you to visit his website at 
http://benjaminhackett.com for 
contact and all your Camp Casey 
bumper stickers and faux crosses.

---------------------------------------------------

V €./
hwmmssgità
y»lWÀ|rViOPM
PwniìttaSettmd11# IP
mm&mmBiM&ymmmi
w«<w«7w«mnw!yw«*i? ^#¿«$¿*4 '?
?C«?V.
MHHHHHhNii
I JuniBaI Coiteg».I raom
OwW*JW41 |'%*KVfrU#*«iirti»i > «**«•,•# ot-.m-mtmn*$-mm ; ,«*»am. m »pm
^ssiiié^^
m^étVA*?*tw¡WGP*
%w» tote ftrtitirdmm
IcrgVi» ¡LourwyOuft ¦ fi*
JHHKWael*snT003AM
C#iftrn< U-iHKTity id ¡bmrufv&tt *«¡CPM
Lobinson Twn 
(412) 788-5350
Every minute of every day, donated blood saves lives. 
Accident victims, cancer patients—someone's child, 
someone's parent, someone's friend.
Please give blood.
Call today to make an appointment
1-800-GIVE LIFE
Someone needs you—right now.
Bring this ad into Torrid & receive15% Off
your entire purchase!
One coupon per purchase. Not valid with any other offer. Excludes gift cards.
Offer EXPIRES September 30th, 2005
wvm.torrid.com
American Red CrossTogether, we can save a life
1-800-GIVE LIFE j www.redcross.org
Baseball starts season on right foot
by Alex Horowitz
Junior Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon’s club 
baseball team took advantage of 
its first four games, going 3-1 in 
that span to open up what looks 
to be another successful season 
for the growing organization.
The team started the year with 
a September 3 doubleheader 
sweep of the Robert Morris 
Colonials. Playing another 
doubleheader the next day, the 
Tartans split their two-game set 
against Penn State-Fayette. Both 
of Carnegie’s first two opponents 
were divisional foes.
The Tartans shut out Robert 
Morris 8-0 in the first game of 
the first doubleheader. Carnegie 
bats first came to life in the 
fifth inning when captain Matt 
Corbett’s clutch two-run single 
put CMU on the board.
The real story of the game, 
however, was the pitching 
performance of starter Dan Ruef, 
who threw a complete game — 
an eight-inning shutout — giving 
up only two hits and striking out 
14. Five of the Colonials’ final 
six outs came by way of a Ruef 
strikeout.
The Tartans’ bats exploded 
again the second game, en 
route to a mercy-rule shortened 
13-1 victory. Ruef, the hero 
of the first game as a pitcher, 
jumpstarted the Carnegie
offense with an RBI double in 
the first, which was followed 
by C/IB Ryan Comes’ two- 
run single. After giving up one 
run in a shaky first, starter 
Pete Sukits worked with his 
early five-run lead and decimated 
Robert Morris hitters for the 
rest of the game. The match 
ended in the fifth inning, as 
the Tartans 12-run lead put the 
league’s mercy rule into effect.
In the first game of the team’s 
second doubleheader against 
Fayette, freshman starting 
pitcher Matt Coens burst onto 
the scene in his college debut. 
Coens threw all seven innings 
and held Fayette to just two 
runs. These two runs put the 
offense into a small hole early, 
but Carnegie Mellon’s hot bats 
pulled through. Infielder Jack 
Bader led a sixth inning along 
with Corbett for a six-run Tartan 
attack, leading the Tartans to a 
comeback victory, 6-2.
The team’s first loss came in 
the second game of the Fayette 
doubleheader, spoiling a solidly 
pitched game by starter Doug 
Peters. The game was tied at 
three in the sixth, but two cosdy 
fielding errors in the seventh lost 
the game for the Tartan men. 
Fayette’s game-winning run was 
unearned.
CMU’s four games were 
Claudio Reilsono’s first as the 
Tartans’ head coach. “We are 
happy with our wins — happy
but not content,” stated 
Reilsono. “We know we can and 
will improve. I saw a lot of good 
things out there today. I liked 
our hustle. I liked the way we 
were on offense. I could not be 
happier for the team, and I know 
we are on our way to having a 
very successful season.”
Reilsono had previously 
served as head coach for Penn 
State-Beaver and Community 
College of Beaver County, and as 
an assistant coach for Duquesne 
University. The Tartans’ new 
head coach was also the general 
manager and lead scout of the 
Global Scouting Bureau. He has 
signed more than 40 ballplayers 
to pro contracts.
Assistant Coach Randy Bowser 
was also brought into the picture 
this year, as Carnegie Mellon 
continues to demonstrate its 
commitment to the baseball 
program.
Through the Tartans’ fourth 
game, first-year junior and 
centerfielder Jiheon Kim already 
boasts a team-leading eight RBIs, 
and Dan Ruef is batting at a 
.750 clip with five stolen bases 
to go along with his spectacular 
pitching statistics. Captain Matt 
Corbett is hitting .636 with seven 
RBIs.
No matter how impressive the 
team appears at the moment, 
coach Reilsono affirms of 
Carnegie’s baseball team — “the 
best is yet to come.”
I IN/INEWS
Administration
Intramural Director:
Mike Mastroianni 
X8-2214 or mma8@
Assistant Director:
Mike Grzywinski 
X8-2214 or immike@
Secretary:
Amy Kiryk 
x8-2053 or kiryk@
IM Board President:
Jon Kline jlkline@
Women’s President:
Jaci Feinstein jfeinste@
Important Dates
Thursday, September 15
— Rosters due for water polo, 
chess, and bowling by 4:30 pm 
in the IM Office.
Sports In Season
Flag Football — The season 
starts tonight at the IM and 
stadium fields. Schedules are 
available in the IM Office. 
Games are played Monday 
through Thursday nights and
Sunday afternoons. Please 
stay off the fields until varsity 
practices are completely over 
and the IM staff tells you it is 
okay to go on the field.
Co-Rec Volleyball — The games 
start Tuesday. Schedules are 
available in the IM Office. There 
are three women on the court 
at all times. Games are played at 
the UC Courts, 6:30-10:30 pm, 
Monday through Thursday.
Tennis — The tennis intramural 
teams are two singles players 
and one doubles pair. Matches 
are played on the University 
Courts Monday through 
Thursday nights starting at 7 
pm. The schedule will be out 
late this week. We are waiting 
for the court refinishing to be 
completed.
Sports Upcoming
Water Polo — Games are 
played in the UC pool (dive 
end), weeknights, 9:15-11 pm. 
Games are 5 on 5.
Bowling — Matches are played 
at the Pittsburgh Athletic 
Association (PAA) headquarters 
in Oakland. There is a minimal 
fee for playing in this league 
to cover rent of the lanes and 
shoe rental. Matches are played 
on late afternoons during the 
week and early evenings on 
Sundays.
Tartan Intramural Preseason 
Football Poll
Majors —
1. Beta Dynasty
2. Beta Peitra’s Posse
3. Beta Rookies
Intermediate —
1. SPIRIT A Team
2. PiKAA
3. Theta Xi
4. KDR A
Minors —
1.HBB Those Guys PiKA
2. Sig Ep Football A
3. Kap Sig
4. Phi Kappa Theta A
5. NROTC Blue
Women —
1. Hoopers
2. SPIRIT Sister Soldiers
3. Kappa/Tri Delt
Women are allowed to 
participate on teams with men 
in all leagues. There are also 
women-only leagues in all 
sports except co-rec.
If you have any questions or 
need help filling out a roster 
stop by the IM Office in Skibo 
Gym or call X8-2214.
AI2 THE TARTAN » SEPTEMBER 12, 2005

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN « SEPTEMBER 12, 2005
XLogIfa'Xg'
I J \ I Z
by Li
Wednesday, 
IVieCoucmy Audi
is ;.V'ï
FREE ^ TICKETS
Text “FLY" to 22122
it’s your chance to w|n one of ten pairs of roundtrio tickets to London
.com
This lecture is sponsored, in part, by Bank of America, 
JPMorgan Private Bank and Morgan Stanley.
FREE AND OPEN TO THE PUBLIC
Terms: ajj fares a?e based on hun-Mp'\uï*iî- % transportation lax Cine' taxes & fctfs vary, depen advance f/;renasi A $a: right r>lay :s ivqu.rsfi A ft" departure beginning Ser> $ Swr.e fa;e$ va StuaentUniveise tc;?n fof compete term::.. Pa? au» studentuniverse convc.cnies: Standard nie*
include a SftiifentUniverse imi) ori the itinerary & are nc ttäftmim stay is 30 ria y? (it d Other days 0? -he week es «?e.i.-üb(eçî $0 a varani ac:ng rates appi/ aorxxdin-:
service fee of Dorr t included »-‘ans* ara va! v terss valid fer a max ? Blackout dôîèSr ¦% enne ify & charme without n to your ckm
esSc fares include a 7 US 1 Mofy’Afcct Ä require an 6 day ay 3S5 cays) :n* fares valid restnefcons -nay apply V:$«i once For contest rutes visit
1
y )f
CARNEGIE MELLON’S CENTER FOR COMPUTATIONAL FINANCE INVITES YOU TO ATTEND THE THIRD
ry: Past, 
nt and Futurearry M. Markowitz
er 14, 2005, 4:30 p.m. 
itorium, University Center
Football notches comeback victory
FOOTBALL, from A14
While Sivek was able to produce 
some much-needed offense, the 
Wolverines were hurt by the 
loss of their starting sophomore 
fullback Matt Weil, who rushed 
for a career-high 131 yards and 
one touchdown on 19 carries last 
Saturday. Weil had five carries for 
22 yards before he left the game 
in the first quarter due to injury.
Unlike the offense, the Tartans’ 
defense proved to be strong and 
consistent. The defense was led 
by junior safety Aaron Lewis with 
nine tackles. Senior linebackers
Jamie Ploetzner and Tom Pfister 
contributed with eight and seven 
tackles respectively. Ploetzner 
and junior linebacker James 
Rogers both recorded one sack. 
The special teams unit also forced 
a critical turnover on a kickoff 
return with less than five minutes 
left in the contest.
The Tartans’ Week 2 struggles 
contrast with their success last 
week against Hiram College. 
Dominating both sides of the ball 
the Tartans were able to shut out 
Hiram. Offensively, Highberger 
passed for over 100 yards and one 
touchdown, a 43-yard reception
mm mg PI pu jfffgiB linillfflllATHI FT Ml nL^jvs
Volleyball — Catie Fisher led 
the Tartans offensively, lead­
ing the team in kills consistently 
throughout their weekend tourna­
ment. She helped lead the team to 
a seventh-place finish at the Fifth 
Annual Marcia French Memorial 
Tournament.
Women’s Soccer — Mollie 
Salpeter, Andrea Maresca, Sarah 
DeWath, and Amanda Rose led a
Tartan defense that allowed only 
two shots on goal over two games 
against Washington & Jefferson 
and Grove City. Their stifling pres­
ence kept goalie Christie Adams 
from having to make a save in 
either game. First-year Abigail 
Coffin also contributed, scoring 
her team-leading fourth goal ver­
sus Washington & Jefferson.
; Men’s Soccer — William 
Schlough, a junior midfielder, led 
the men’s soccer team with a goal 
and an assist against Grove City 
last Wednesday.
Football — Travis Sivek, last 
year’s UAA Rookie of the Year, had 
two touchdown runs to help lead 
his team to a 20-16 comeback 
victory. Sivek rushed for 125 yards 
on 27 carries, picking up an aver­
age of nearly five yards a carry.
Baseball — Dan Ruef, a gradu­
ate student pitcher and first base­
man, started the season with a 
complete game shutout versus 
Robert Morris, striking out 14. He 
also led the team at the plate, bat-
by senior tight end Kosta Bourlas. 
Highberger also rushed for a 
touchdown. The Tartans’ running 
game was also very effective: 
first-year fullback Ryan Phillips 
led the team with 53 yards, 
sophomore halfback Colby 
Whitman ran for two touch­
downs, and Sivek and sophomore 
halfback Robert Gimson scored 
one touchdown apiece.
The Tartans will have the 
chance to move to 3-0 on the 
season Saturday when they face 
Johns Hopkins University at 
Gesling Stadium. Kickoff will be 
at 1 pm.
First-year Abigail Coffin leads the Tartans in scoring this fall.
ting .750 on the weekend with 
three RBI, six runs scored, and 
five stolen bases.
Men’s Cross Country — Andy 
Fredrickson was the team’s first 
overall finisher at the Duquesne 
Duals on September 3. It was 
Fredrickson’s first collegiate meet.
Women’s Cross Country — 
Jocelyn Sikora was named UAA 
athlete of the week after finish­
ing fifth overall at the Duquesne 
Duals. Sikora was the top NCAA 
Division III finisher in a field of 
44 competitors, completing the 
five-kilometer course in a time of 
19:04.
Volleyball struggles in weekend tilts
by Christian D’Andrea
Sports Editor
Three consecutive defeats 
threatened to send the women’s 
volleyball team to a last-place 
finish this weekend at the Fifth 
Annual Marcia French Memorial 
Tournament held by Baldwin- 
Wallace College. However, an 
inspired effort in the last game 
led the Tartans to a seventh- 
place finish in their bracket.
.The Tartans lost their first 
match to Hope College (Mich.), 
26-30, 30-16, 30-17, 30-20. 
Junior right side hitter Catie 
Fisher led the Tartans with 
12 kills and also picked up 
11 digs in the match.
In their second tilt, the 
team dropped a decision to 
the host team, 21-30, 15-30,
29-31 to place themselves in an 
0-2 hole. Fisher again led the 
team offensively, while junior 
outside hitter Amanda Bradford 
picked up 17 digs.
The team dropped one more 
match to Wisconsin-Whitewater 
21-30, 19-30, 17-30, before 
finally getting their first victory 
of the tournament. The Tartans 
took out their frustrations 
on Oberlin College (Ohio), 
cruising to a 3-0 (30-16, 30-8,
30-25) victory. Junior setter 
Brea Carlock had 38 assists, 14 
going to Fisher for the match. 
Junior Kat Fox had four aces and 
11 digs to balance off a strong 
team attack.
This performance came after 
a strong opening showing at 
the Ohio Northern University 
Tournament, where they placed 
second.
The team’s results were the 
opposite of their most recent 
tournament, as they won their 
opening matches and lost their 
final showdown against 10th- 
ranked Ohio Northern in the 
championship match.
The Tartans rolled past 
Muskingum College of Ohio 
and Alma Liberal Arts College of. 
Michigan in 3-1 victories to earn 
their berth in the tournament 
championship.
Fox and Fisher each had 
outstanding performances, 
leading the team in digs and kills 
and earning selections to the 
All-Tournament Team.
The Tartans will play their 
first non-tournament match 
next Wednesday when they 
travel to Washington & Jefferson 
University. The non-conference 
showdown will begin at 7 pm.
Women’s soccer 3-0 after hot start
WOMEN, from Al 4
dominated the field for the 
entire game; the ball never got 
back into our defensive end,” 
first-year goalie Christie Adams 
recalled. Adams’ memory served 
her well - she didn’t have to stop 
a shot through all 90 minutes 
of play.
Although the second half had 
no scoring, it was no less excit­
ing as the Tartan women worked 
to keep their lead, continuing 
their stifling defense to secure 
the win. After the game, all of the
players were satisfied with their 
hot start. “We did a good job 
controlling the game and main­
taining possession. I’m happy 
with our results,” said Beck.
The Tartan women were on 
the field again this Saturday, 
September 10 in a home 
match against Washington 
and Jefferson. The team con­
tinued its stingy defense in a 
5-0 shutout against the 
Presidents to improve to 3-0. 
Sophomores Jessica Howard 
and Erica LeCount scored the 
first two goals of the game for 
the Tartans, who didn’t look
back after that. Seniors Hallie 
Dumont and Vanessa McClain 
also scored, along with Coffin.
Again, the Tartans’ defense, 
led by senior Mollie Salpeter, 
completely stifled defenders. 
This game, their opponents 
failed to muster a shot on goal, 
leading to goalie Adams’ third 
straight shutout.
The team will return to action 
to host Penn State-Behrend 
on the turf at Gesling Stadium 
Tuesday at 7:30 pm. They 
will then travel to Ohio to play 
Wooster in a non-division match 
on September 17.
Men’s soccer triumphs at home
SOCCER, from A14
The two-goal lead proved 
more than enough cushion for 
the Tartans, who confidently 
continued to attack even with the 
big lead. The strategy paid off in 
the form of a 24—5 advantage in 
shots. More importantly, though, 
Marietta had no legitimate 
scoring chances, and managed 
just one shot from within the 
box.
In shutting down the Marietta 
attack, the Tartans made use not 
only of their strong back line, 
but also their uncanny ability
to possess the ball. The Tartans 
hardly gave the talented Marietta 
midfield a chance to show off 
their playmaking ability, and 
instead forced the Pioneers into 
a defensive formation for much 
of the night. As a result, Marietta 
managed only one shot on 
goal, compared to Carnegie 
Mellon’s ten.
The win was the Tartans’ 
second of the season, coming 
after a 1-0 victory at Geneva 
College. Sophomore Scott Kuppe 
recorded the game-winning goal 
73 minutes into the game.
First-year goalie Matthew
Bazin preserved the shutout 
for the team with three saves. 
Carnegie Mellon had less of 
an offensive impact this game, 
managing just four shots on 
net, but made the most of their 
opportunités to secure the 
victory.
The Tartans, now 2-0, next 
play at Washington & Jefferson 
on Wednesday, and begin 
their conference schedule on 
October 2 against the University 
of Chicago. The UAA Coaches 
Poll projects them to finish first 
in the division for the sixth 
straight year.
Students Fly Cheaper
Sample roundtrip Student Airfares from Pittsburgh to:
you il ike 
you like to write 
write for spo 
Tartan.
»top by UC 314 or e-mail 
sports@thetartan.org for 
more information!
London $447 
Paris $516 
Tokyo $788
New York City $143
Minneapolis $168
San Francisco $238

---------------------------------------------------

mm
:
MEN’S SOCCER 
DOWNS 
MARIETTA
by Andrew Clearfield
Staffwriter
It’s been five years since die 
Carnegie Mellon men’s soccer team 
finished anywhere blit first in the 
University Athletic Association 
standings. So, even witli the 
graduation of four key starters, 
expectations are high for the Tartans 
to continue their dominance of the 
conference and repeat their annual 
trip to the NCAA tournament.
On Wednesday night in Gesling 
Stadium, the Tartans took one of 
the first steps towards achieving this 
goal with a 2-0 blanking of Marietta 
College. Carnegie Mellon struck early, 
scoring in the eighth minute when 
junior forward William Schlough put 
away a loose ball in front of the box, 
the result of a misplayed corner kick 
by Marietta goalkeeper Brian Bugge.
Just 15 minutes later, the Tartans 
sealed the game with a head ball 
goal by first team All-UAA selection 
Jonathan Browne, a junior forward.
The score came in the Tartans’ 
customarily rapid fashion, as Schlough 
took a quick throw-in from first-year 
William Brackley and headed it across 
the box for the unmarked Browne to 
finish.
Still, despite the easy win, the 
Tartans were less than satisfied with 
their performance.
“It was a good win definitely,” 
said sophomore Chris Watts. “But we 
missed a lot of chances and didn’t 
play up to our potential; as the season 
progresses we need to improve. Still, 
it’s good to start off with a couple of 
wins going into conference.”
Sophomore midfielder Vincent 
Chiodo added that the pressure of 
living up to the team’s recent success 
cannot be discounted. “To live up to 
the high standards [ofCarnegie Mellon 
soccer],” he said, “the performance 
has to be better than what was on 
display Wednesday night. We did win 
but we need a little more than that to 
have a successful season.”
See SOCCER, page Al 3
Football runs over Hiram and 
Grove City to start season 2-0
by Kevin LaBuz
Staffwriter
Last weekend the Carnegie Mellon 
Tartan football team trounced the Hiram 
College Terriers 45-0 to win their season 
opener. This week however, their victory 
would be hard-earned. On Saturday the 
Tartans narrowly defeated the Wolverines 
of Grove City College 20-16.
While the Tartans were ranked second 
in the 2005 University Athletic Association 
(UAA) preseason coaches poll, you would 
not have been able to guess this from their 
first-half play.
At halftime the Tartans trailed the 
Wolverines by ten, 13-3. The Tartans’ 
offense had been relatively lackluster 
and ineffective. At the end of the first 
quarter, the Tartans had lost 11 yards 
on 12 rushes thanks largely to a 
cosdy fumble that lost 19 yards. Their 
production, however, began to pick up 
in the second quarter. Junior kicker 
Nathaniel Greenstein accounted for the 
Tartans’ only points in the period, kicking
a 23-yard field goal as time expired in 
the first half.
While the offense was unproductive, 
the defense played well, especially when 
the Wolverines got close to the goal line. 
The Tartan defense allowed only one 
Wolverine touchdown and twice forced 
the Wolverines to kick field goals on 
fourth-and-goal situations. A decisive 
penalty late in the first quarter 
cost the Wolverines a touchdown, 
and perhaps the game, as a 
15-yard touchdown run by halfback Ian 
Tobin was negated by a holding call.
In the second half, the Tartans began 
playing like a second-ranked team. Their 
offensive woes ceased in the second half 
as junior quarterback Kevin Mulkern 
replaced • senior Jarrod Highberger 
and as the ground game began to gain 
consistency. The Tartans started the 
second half with a 15-play drive that 
covered 70 yards, including a 21-yard 
reception by junior wide receiver Mark 
Davis and a clutch third-down conversion 
by senior halfback Joe Hurley. The drive 
culminated with a one-yard touchdown
run by sophomore fullback Travis Sivek 
and a successful point-after attempt by 
Greenstein.
Sivek carried the bulk of the Tartan 
offense, rushing for 125 yards — 
including one run for 52 yards — and two 
touchdowns on 27 carries. After being 
limited to only 21 yards on nine carries 
in the first half, Sivek had a spectacular 
second half, gaining rushing for over 
100 yards and recording both, of his 
touchdowns.
Mulkern showed that he had the 
ability both to run and to pass, rushing 
for 26 yards and completing five of 
his attempted ten passes for 88 yards. 
Mulkem’s production off the bench may 
produce a quarterback controversy, as 
he was more effective than the Tartans’ 
starting quarterback, Highberger, who 
completed only two of his seven passes 
and threw an interception. Greenstein, 
who scored the first points for the Tartans, 
also kicked an 18-yard field goal with less 
then three minutes left in the game.
See FOOTBALL, page A13Marcus Gho/Photo Staff
Sophomores Jonathan Bodner and Mike Reggie clamp down on a Hiram runner.
Women’s soccer team remains 
perfect due to stifling defense
First-year Laura Steidel battles for possession against Washington &. Jefferson.
by Shaleya Solomon
Junior Staffwriter
Young players stepped up as the 
Tartan women’s soccer team was 
led offensively by underclassmen in 
their second victory of their season on 
Wednesday against Grove City. The 
Tartans dominated on both sides of the 
ball and cruised to a 3-0 shutout win.
Sophomore Kasey Stever was first 
to put points on the scoreboard, and
set the tone of the game with her 
unassisted goal. This was followed by 
another goal by senior Margaret Beck, 
assisted by sophomore Amanda Rose, 
both of whom are defenders on the 
team.
A third goal was scored just before 
the end of the first half by first-year 
Abigail Coffin, also unassisted. All of 
this in a period where the Tartans’ 
defenders allowed no shots on goal and 
barely allowed Grove City near their 
end of the field.
“One thing our team has been 
working on a lot this year is shooting 
and creating scoring opportunities. I 
feel like we did really good job of this 
in our game, considering that we out- 
shot [Grove City] 29-2,” said Stever 
after the game.
After a productive first half, Tartan 
fans, coaches, and players alike were 
excited about their lead and were eager 
to maintain it. “Our team completely
See WOMEN, page A13
Tartan Sports St<endings---------Fall 2()05
FootballWomen’s TennisMen’s TennisMen’s SoccerWomen’s Soccer
Last Week: Wat Grove City 20-16Last Week: at Carnegie Mellon InvitationalLast Week: at Carnegie Mellon InvitationalLast Week: W vs. Marietta 2-0Last week: W at Grove City 3-0
Wvs. Wash & Jeff 5-0
UAA StandingsConferenceOverallU£A StandingsConferenceOverallUAA StandingsConferenceOverallUAA StandingsConferenceOverallUAA StandingsConferenceOverall
Case0-02-0Rochester0-01-0Rochester0-00-0Rochester0-04-0-0Carnegie Mellon0-03-0-0
Carnegie Mellon0-02-0Brandéis0-01-0Brandeis0-00-0Emory0-04-0-0Rochester0-03—0—0
Washington0-01-0Emory0—00-0Emory0-00-0Brandeis0-03-0-0Emory0-03-0-1
Chicago0-00-1Carnegie Mellon0-00-0Carnegie Mellon0-00-0Chicago0-03-0-0Washington0-03-1-0
Case0-0 *0-0Case0-00-0Carnegie Mellon0-02-0-0Brandeis0-02-1-0
Chicago0-00-0Chicago0-00-0Washington0-02-0-1Chicago0-02-1-1
Washington0-00-0Washington0-00-0New York0-03-1-0New York0-02-1-1
New York0-00-0New York0-00-0Case0-02-1-1Case0-02-2-1
Sports
12 September 2005THE TARTAN

---------------------------------------------------

IMP* ' ' '
• --- ' - -7. ’V ^ V»./- <
Ultra-feminism, or just indie burlesque?
lifto ur tm
. :-¦>•:• .-•'••• •• "• s-Vr C~yU-: :? S3Sw^iC*4*-¡'AT - i- * - ? *h "^2? -ir ^ ^ -c-'c ^w- ,c ^ - r' f \, .
’ - ' ^ ¡KilwwgM^^ iWiflBBBIftMMMwBSw | ^ v 3r WSBM 8 1 ¦ Aif ># lk Jra|£ •' '•?¦' ¦ •¦¦ •?. %: im ^i|p ^
New album moves them out of tt*es dorm roon
Know where to get your fill
Over-the-top action perfected in yftAljGigfsg a
__

---------------------------------------------------

contents
STAFF
ProsCnfio tQQfsou aBradford L. Yankiver
PNfnbugfhgwdfoQ aJ.T. TrollmanCover by J.T. TrollmanlWhWmfhm PNfnbu aFranklin WilliamsThe Tartan
ef’’cbr PNfnbu aAmanda FlynnBox 1017VyyfynWhn ef’’cbr PNfnbu aMichelle BovaCarnegie Mellon UniversitywbAfsy PNfnbu aGreg PrichardPittsburgh, PA 15289-1017
edbnb PNfnbu aRobert Kaminskiwww.thetartan.orgVun PNfnbu aDanielle Saudino© 2005 The Tartanwb:R lWhWmou aArthur O’Dwyer
eubNCsnfbh lWhWmou aEvan Sundwick
vWRbCn lWhWmou aAllison Gallant
COMICKAZE
Find out how the deep thinker Blank is haunted by 
his subjectivity during a dream.
J.T. Trollman/Editor-in-Chief
Much more than a pornography site, www.suicidegirls.com is 
redefining beauty standards one photo shoot at a time, and 
attracting more female members than male.
yhE dgse vbI2g kb’hbu
Hear about the tenth Ozzfest, with exclusive 
photos from the concert.
Xo'2g rTb2Ib: .ihCb
Scratch your movie itch with a map of the the­
aters around campus, complete with bus routes 
and ticket prices.
M2gbtC2:
Bored already? Find out about some fun things to 
do both on and off campus.
2NhggloUp c8 SbwIbnlb: 8%%Pp

---------------------------------------------------

turntable
Well worth the wait
Zox's long-awaited release is sure to fly off shelves
So this is what it sounds like when a band grows up. With 
their second major release, appropriately titled The Wait, 
Zox has come out with an offering that moves out of the 
dorm room and into the mainstream. Balanced melodies 
that run from relaxed to frantic highlight an album paced 
with more highs than lows.
Though not often heard on mainstream radio, especially 
locally, the band out of Providence, Rhode Island, has 
made a name for themselves across the country and 
especially around our beloved Oakland. Their high- 
energy shows, featuring frenetic violin and heartfelt lyrics 
as a centerpiece, have brought them to a national stage. 
Born in the basement of a Brown University dormitory, 
Zox has become one of the hardest-working bands in the 
country, playing over 200 shows yearly to work their way 
out of the Northeast. This includes consistent shows on 
Pitt and Carnegie Mellon campuses, along with stops at 
the Warped Tour and opening for the Black Eyed Peas, 
Dispatch, The Roots, and O.A.R.
With The Wait, the band has put themselves in position 
to jump from being background music to becoming a 
main stage act. A more mature sound dominates while 
not choking out their jam-band roots. The disc opens 
on a high note and takes the listener through a set of 
emotionally charged songs before letting up at the end. 
Fast-paced rock songs are balanced with slower ballads, 
creating a strong overall impression when the last track 
is finished.
A number of strong songs highlight the disc. The opening 
instrumental track segues into “Thirsty,” which shows 
off the band’s reggae rock roots and a nearly angry 
violin solo that captures much of the energy seen in live 
shows. “Bridge Burning,” a song about ending a volatile 
relationship, is dark and emotional, and leaves listeners 
with a haunting riff at the end. “Carolyn,” “Satellite,” 
and “Spades” also build music around relationships and
fuse heartfelt lyrics to them without compromising 
the integrity of the band by becoming whiny and 
repetitive.
“A Little More Time” is an outstandingly catchy tune in 
which everything just seems to come together for the 
band. Drummer John Zox seems to channel the Beatles 
with a memorably simple beat, and the tune plays out 
into a rock song spiked with the perfect dose of violin. 
The end result is infectious, a rhythm that you’ll be 
humming to yourself when you’re alone.
This isn’t to say that the album is all good. Fans of the 
band’s first albums will miss some of violinist Spencer 
Swain’s showmanship, which has been toned down in 
order to make the album more radio-friendly. There 
are no emotional solos to compare with some found 
on the band’s first release, Take Me Home, and no 
flagship song like the rock cover of Pachelbel’s Canon 
found on that premier disc. Though the songs are 
heartfelt, in a disc with songs almost exclusively about 
relationships, the lyrics border on emo from time to 
time. In addition, the slow songs seem to be missing 
an element. “Anything But Fine,” track number five on 
the disc, has a great violin riff and powerful lyrics, but 
it lacks the certain intangibles that can turn a slow love 
song into a ballad.
Despite its flaws, the final product is the band’s 
strongest offering yet. The disc is solid throughout 
and its more memorable songs could find airplay on 
stations across the U.S. However, the best part of Zox 
can only be found in the energy they bring to their live 
shows. Keep your eyes open for the band’s inevitable 
return to the Pittsburgh area this fall.
Sci en& Thnol
50 YEARS AGO 
September 20,1955
The Tartan published a story reporting that fraternities were 
concerned that they had only 168 pledges, significantly fewer than 
the year before. The Tartan reported that Rush Week was run the 
same way in ’55 as in ’54, but with “three date parties instead of 
two." It added that, “This created an even bigger demand for the 
freshmen women, who are often rushed harder than the men.” It’s 
no surprise that women were rushed hard.
2-5 YEARS AGO
September 16, 1980
Peer Help Center, a student-run organization, was temporarily 
suspended. Dean Swank set up a committee to re-examine the 
needs for Peer Help, reported The Tartan. The Tartan wrote, 
“Swank feels that Peer Help was not performing services for which 
it was orginally formed, such as helping people on ‘bad drug trips’ 
and peer counseling.” By 1980, retinal failure due to DayrGlo was 
more common on campus than bad acid trips.
10 YEARS AGO
September 11,1995
A student composed an editorial about the poor quality of CMlTs 
toilet paper. He criticized the cheap quality of the paper. He went 
on to discuss the possible positive effects of switching to a better 
brand of toilet paper. “Better toilet paper would prompt students 
to feel more inclined to use the bathroom. Therefore, the switching 
of brands could help reduce the general constipation level on 
campus....” He added, “With a quality product like Charmin, maybe 
a fold or two is all that’s needed. The CMU special toilet paper cries 
out for a minimum of 6- or 7-Iayering to truly protect the hand.”
5 YEARS AGO 
September 11,2000
Rusted Root drummer Jim Donovan had an interview with The 
Tartan, during which he commented on Britney Spears. “Someone 
like Britney Spears, for example, is an entertainer and as long as 
she is doing what she loves, who am I to denounce that?... Maybe in 
some tiny town in Idaho, Britney Spears is the one thing that causes 
someone to do something really important in his life.” The last thing 
Britney Spears inspired me to do was take birth control. And stay 
away from guys named Kevin. Ick. .
1 YEAR AGO 
September 7,2004
First-years were required to pass a class called “AlcoholEdu.” It 
was an online course designed to educate college first-years about 
alcohol and its effects. To pass “AlcoholEdu” you had to receive a 
grade of 70 or higher on a post-survey and final exam. Anita Barkin, 
director of Carnegie Mellon Student Health Services, said, “A lot of 
students come in naive to alcohol because it’s never been an issue for 
them.” After those students saw their grades for the first semester, 
alcohol became more than an issue. It became a close friend.
THEARNADe an’esELD 
itrENR OsANrE

---------------------------------------------------

__movies___
Close Cinemas
The easiest movie theaters to get to in Pittsburgh
Loews Waterfront Theatre
300 West Waterfront Drive, Homestead 15210 
412.462.6384
Ticket prices: Matinee price $6.25; evening (after 5 
pm) $8.75
Bus Routes: 59U, 61C, 61F
Info: Party room available, reserved seating, game 
room, café and restaurant on premises.
Oakland
SUIS Forbes m
Cinemagic Manor Theatre
1729 Murray Avenue, Pittsburgh 15217 
412.422.7729 or cinemagicpgh.com 
Ticket prices: Matinee price $5; evening (after 6 
pm) $7.50
Bus Routes: 59U, 61A-D, 61F, 69A, 501 
Info: Four screens, roomy auditoriums. Inde­
pendent or limited-release art films among some 
popular films.
South Side Works Cinema
425 Cinema Drive, Pittsburgh 15203 
412.381.7335
Discounts: Thursday night student discounts ($6) with student 
ID; Tuesday night South Side resident night ($6) with valid ID 
Ticket prices: Matinee price $6; evening (after 6 pm) $8.50 
Bus Routes: 54C (four blocks away from Works), 59U (direct, 
nights and weekends)
Info: 10 screens, 1700 stadium style seats. Seven screens run 
popular films; three run art and European films.
Homestead
Pittsburgh Filmmakers Melwood Screening 
Room
477 Melwood Aveue, Pittsburgh 15213 
412.682.4111
Discounts: $1 off ($5) with student ID 
Ticket prices: $6 
Bus Routes: 54C, 71A
Info: Seats 130 people; shows American and foreign in­
dependent films; has a monthly film showcase. The Film­
makers Galleries is on the premises.
V _______________________J
CLASSIFIEDS
FOR RENT OR SALE
PARENTS-Great place to stay on 
Pgh visits. Quiet residential, close 
to CMU. Fully furnished large studio 
apt / Homecoming, Family Weekend, 
Graduation/ 2 night min / pics available/ 
ehfabbr@aol.com (mailtO:ehfabbr@aoi. 
com)
House for rent: Walk to the University. 
3 bedroom 1.5 baths, atrium, off street 
parking, equipped kitchen plus more. 
$1200 plus utilities. Call Jo at 412- 
370-1672.
OPPORTUNITIES
Spring Break 2006. Travel with STS, 
America’s #1 Student Tour Operator 
to Jamaica, Cancún, Acapulco, 
Bahamas and Florida. Now hiring on- 
campus reps. Call for group discounts.
I nformation/Reservations 1-800-648- 
4849 or www.ststravel.com.
BANISH EXCESS POUNDS!!! Easy, 
delicious, affordable, all-natural!!! We 
show you how!!! Guaranteed!!! Cali 
1-888-232-9511 now - free health 
evaluation!!!
ALEXSFLOWERS.COM for your flowers. 
Delivery. 412.687.4128 located corner 
N. Craig and Bayard.
SPRING BREAKERS - Book Early and 
Save! FREE MEALS/PARTI ES BY 11/7. 
Lowest Prices, ffottest Destinations: 
Jamaica, Cancún, Acapulco, Bahamas, 
Barbados, Amsterdam, Florida, and 
more. Work as a Campus rep... BOOK 
15 = 2 FREE TRIPS OR CASH. Highest 
Commissions. Book with Sun Splash 
Tours... your experienced Spring Break 
Company.
www.sunsplashtours.com
800.426.7710.
** #1 Spring Break Website! Low 
prices guaranteed. Free Meals & Free 
Drinks. Book 11 people, get 12th trip 
free! Group discounts for 6+ 
www.SpringBreakDiscounts.com or 
www.LeisureTours.com or 
800.838.8202.
Need an extra $36,000.00 a year? 
Vending business for sale. Sell $5000 
1-800-568-1281 or 
vendingfriends.com
Cammpsey co tPibPupPr ogghy

---------------------------------------------------

movies
Transporter 2
Packed full of over-the-top action scenes, the sequel lives up to its predecessor
Most blockbuster action films, astonishingly hedonistic 
and unrealistic as they are, inevitably become spoiled 
by a sense of self-imposed seriousness — most likely 
according to the flawed logic “If we don’t take ourselves 
seriously, no one else will!”
Transporter 2 is not one of those films.
Transporter 2 is the sequel to 2002’s cult action movie The 
Transporter. Jason Statham, better known as the really 
cool English guy from Snatch and The Italian Job, stars in 
both movies as an ex-military commando who is now a 
professional transporter—a driver for hire who will move 
your wares, whatever they may be, without question.
In the first movie, Frank Martin (Statham) uncovers 
a human trafficking operation in Monaco after one of 
his deliveries turns out to be a young Chinese woman 
who tried to blow the.whistle on the bad guys. Martin 
gets involved, despite the strict rules to which he holds 
himself, and saves the day. At the start of Transporter 
2, he has relocated to Miami from the equally beautiful 
south of France. He’s also broadened his career horizons, 
and is filling the role of a family chauffeur for the young 
son of the government’s new drug czar.
The plot of Transporter 2 is laughably complex and 
frankly isn’t really worth explaining in detail. It involves 
a virus weaponized by ex-Soviets and an international 
drug conference in Miami; you can piece the rest together
on your own. Once again, Frank Martin gets drawn into 
a conflict he really has no business in, and kicks liberal 
amounts of ass along the way.
And that is really the crux of the matter; both The 
Transporter and Transporter 2 are absolutely ridiculous 
action movies. Corey Yuen, who has been a fight 
choreographer in various forms for dozens of action and 
martial-arts movies since 1976 (including Jackie Chan’s 
Drunken Master, Lethal Weapon 4, X-Men, and The One), 
developed a distinct visual and kinetic style for the fight 
scenes in both Transporter movies. The action is fast and 
rigid, and in keeping with Statham’s character, completely 
professional and unflinching. There’s never even a hint 
of uncertainty in Statham’s movement, which makes 
the fight scenes that much more enjoyable to watch. In 
Transporter 2, for instance, Statham spends an entire 
fight repelling a seemingly endless stream of thugs with 
a fire hose — admittedly not an original idea, as martial 
arts aficionados will point out — without even pulling a 
knife.
Even more than the fighting, though, the star of 
Transporter 2 is Jason Statham’s gorgeous and amazing 
Audi A8 W12. The film opens with a sweeping shot of 
the car, zooming in close on the oversized Audi logo 
emblazoned on the front end. One can almost hear the 
director: “Yes, this film is a giant ad. Yes, we’re comfortable 
with that. No, it doesn’t really matter.” The car chases are 
well worth the “incidental” brand exposure, as it’s one
of the most ridiculous, tongue-in-cheek movie moments 
of the summer. I won’t spoil it for you; let’s just say that 
Statham uses a healthy dose of creativity to get himself, 
and his car, out of a sticky situation.
That tongue-in-cheek ridiculousness is probably, in the 
end, the only thing keeping The Transporter series afloat. 
Whereas other hyped-up Hollywood action movies 
bombed this summer (The Island and Stealth both made 
approximately a tenth of their production cost back in 
their opening weekends), Transporter 2 made two-thirds 
of its cost back in one of the hardest weekends in showbiz, 
breaking Labor Day box office records. The key to the 
film’s success is that it doesn’t take itself too seriously. 
Movies are entertainment. Not all of them have to be 
permanently life-altering Oscar hopefuls. Sometimes 
moviegoers just want to watch some guys get totally 
owned and a few buildings blown up.
You should know if you’re one of those moviegoers. If 
you’re looking for a quick mindless release before the 
school year ramps up, or if you just really enjoy Audis 
and/or British guys in suits, you are probably the kind 
of person who needs to spend an afternoon down at the 
Waterfront watching Transporter 2.
OUDe ilesBA12 
0Ersl1NAre 5DeDJLE
$ movieby evan sundwick
The Adventures of 
Robin Hood
gyihyFirum AyIOy:ayd Pb 
@8,10,12
This movie was made in 1938 and 
starred legendary womanizer Errol 
Flynn. Everybody knows the story 
of Robin Hood, so there’s not much 
worth saying here. Apparently the 
archery segments are really cool, 
and since it was from the thirties, 
you know the effects were the real 
deal. Perhaps “extremely old adven­
ture movies” will become Wednesday 
Films’ theme this semester.
Love Is Colder 
than Death
xp&dFirum AyIOy:ayd Pt 
@8,10,12
If you’re in West Germany during the 
height of the Cold War, are a strug­
gling pimp named Franz, and are being 
hunted by a mobster named Bruno, you 
may have starred in the 1969 film Love 
Is Colder than Death. In what appears to 
be a West German predecessor to mov­
ies like Lock Stock and Two Smoking 
Barrels, Franz and the mobster out to 
kill him become best friends and start 
dating the same woman. What happens 
next is most likely told in a ruthlessly 
efficient way - as is normal for the Ger­
mans - and in the end, a lesson may or 
may not be learned. You’ll have to see 
it to find out.
Kingdom of Heaven
sdcirum AyIOy:ayd P8 
0Mf$6m P6m P9f$6
Liam Neeson, Jeremy Irons, Edward 
Norton, and Orlando Bloom join forces 
to tell the tale of the defense of Jeru­
salem during the Crusades. Though it 
was a big Ridley Scott epic, Kingdom 
of Heaven sprt of ended up fading out 
of view pretty quickly because appar- 
endy epics are only interesting if they’re 
about conflicts that did not have ambig­
uous morality and don’t ruffle feathers. 
Nevertheless, the film will surely in­
clude swordfights and seiges, which are 
generally worth a dollar. Or are they?
Hitchhiker’s Guide 
to the Galaxy
ArO&dirum AyIOy:ayd PM 
@8, 10,12
You all probably already saw it. This 
is Carnegie Mellon, after all. Whether 
you loved it or hated it, Hitchhiker’s 
Guide did a pretty good job adapting 
the feel of the book to the screen, 
no doubt thanks in part to Douglas 
Adams’ work on the screenplay before 
"he passed away. Again, you probably 
already know if it’s worth a second 
viewing, and on the off chance you 
haven’t seen this one yet, do yourself 
a favor and spend the $1 to see it - if 
you hate it at least you’ll know. If you 
don’t know what a Vogon is or why the 
number forty-two is significant, just 
go see it because Zooey Deschanel is 
really hot.
High Tension
A&hirum AyIOy:ayd P. 
@8,10,12
It seems that the Activities Board film 
chairs can’t let a week go by without 
showing a French movie. High Tension 
debuted in the US last year, more than 
a year after the French release; the 
story centers around a woman on the 
run from some sort of deranged killer. 
The movie is notoriously graphic dur­
ing all of the slayings, and was origi­
nally rated NC-17 before it was edited 
down to an R. Supposedly, the film is 
a very well put together slasher movie 
but with a nice, original, twisted plot. 
It could be a good way to keep yourself 
awake Sunday night to finish that mas­
sive first problem set of the year that 
you haven’t yet started.
Cammpsey 12 tPibPupPr 2005.5

---------------------------------------------------

on the cover
5!LIIICIIt¦HiSIIRILS
Strong women with something to say and something to show
“We’re trying to take the same sort of feel as vintage 
Bunny Yeager and Bettie Page pin-up photos and the 
Alberto Vargas drawings and present them with a modern 
update,” she says. “These are just the girls I personally 
find the sexiest. There’s no place else in the media to see 
girls that are tremendously smart and beautiful in their 
.own way. Everywhere you look you just see the super- 
thin, super-tall, bleached-blonde Baywatch babe. There 
are a lot of people out there who want to see a different. 
kind of beauty.”
With 24 million page views a month and over 2 million 
comments posted to the message boards in the last year,/
SuicideGirls has proven that there is an audience for girls 
outside the mainstream. Besides the 56,000 pictures 
of the almost 600 Suicide Girls, the site offers message 
boards, a news site, band and author interviews, groups, 
i calendars, clothes, and even a burlesque tour currently
touring internationally following sold out performances 
on the original national tour. Employees and models 
on the site tend to take “Suicide” as their last name to 
preserve their anonymity, and to promote the sense of 
family that the site strives to provide.
undertones stress a do-it-yourself attitude and 
appreciation for the individual, as well as the indie 
cachets of piercings and spiked hair. Founded in 2001 by 
a couple which call themselves Missy and Spooky Suicide, 
SuicideGirls aims to be smart, clean, female-friendly 
erotica, as well as a distinct and thriving community.
SuicideGirls, and other sites like it on the web, are 
combining traditional forms of erotica with the 
aesthetics and philosophies of the punk and 
indie subcultures — to create a vibe 
that some credit as modern 
female empowerment, 
and others pass 
as indie 
burlesque. 
Its modern
“The term ‘Suicide Girls’ was taken from the Chuck 
Palahniuk book Survivorexplains Missy Suicide. “There 
are no dark sinister undertones to it. If I had known the 
site would be so popular then I might have thought the 
name out a bit more.”
The term was lifted from the nickname Missy and 
her friends used to call the girls they saw in Portland, 
Oregon’s Pioneer Square: “With skateboards in one 
hand, wearing a Minor Threat hoodie, listening to Ice 
Cube on their iPods while reading a book of Nick Cave’s 
poetry,” says Missy. “They are girls who didn’t fit into any 
conventional subculture and didn’t define themselves 
based on musical taste like punk, metal, goth, etc. I think 
the only classifications right now people identify with are 
‘mainstream’ and ‘outside of mainstream.’”
Before she took her clothes off, Pearl Suicide had a lot 
of work to do for her anti-Bush photoset. She met with 
the art director, then prepped the backdrop, and finally 
covered a coat with pins and bumper stickers critical of 
the current administration that she could focus attention 
on as she slowly removed it.
Pay $9 a month and SuicideGirls.com will provide you 
(and the other 500,000 unique visitors the site gets per 
week) thousands of hi-resolution images of what the site 
calls “the hottest, cutest, sexiest goth, punk, and emo 
girls we can find.” Most are topless, and each begins her 
photoset clothed. With each photo, they end up less so.
Photos by Robert Kaminksi, Dexter Hu, and J.T. Trollman
6NhggloUp c8 SbwIbnlb: 8%%Pp

---------------------------------------------------

s-'i? 4 '• TVobjectification or d< 
of alterna-porn in
reiterating,!;:
0*^. ^ iff« luty norms are really
on softcore pin- but ir
iiig the site light when
ive attempted to forth
ication
point t 
The w<
IMtraffeib 
me rest of their 
| it: “People may 
tut they stay for- 
think that more
ieGirls doesn I 
et, the gener; 
around the i 
further throu; 
eek discussior™ • M Ucostings wher 
rties about h 
irts to look 1<
ts member Mike
Smiths,
P» h^ever. 
iontrol their J
Ethics, sociologist Kath Albury explores the differences 
between professional, cottage-industry, and amateur 
pornography on the ’Net. “Pom’s opponents have
But with the glut of free pictures of women all over the 
internet, what convinces SuicideGiris’ 500,000 unique 
visitors a week to pay money to see pictures of j 
How can a movement like punk rock — founded 
thwarting conventional social standards in an “outsid 
subculture — join hands with an industry designe 
cater to conventional standar 
appeal is tied to the 
are the girls thayg|§ 
in record sto:
This is th 
execution 
reclaim the resp 
traditional por: 
up photograf; 
and fun, 
create a co: 
might peac #
message boards, profile 
much more, the team befei 
to make a “contemporary lifestyle brand/ instead of just or as little
and thi
a pin-up site.
ill
It seems to 
the pin-up 
time in the coramu 
come for the pay« 
the blogs and boards' 
than other sites, 
nurturing community* 
shots.”
“I like the DIY [Do-It-Youri 
grad studenBsaod 
women on 
airbrushed.
Others que 
women as 
of patriarc 
who take 
see Suicide 
to men’s p 
SuicideGiris j 
wave femi 
popularity
¡¿graphic producers, performers, and 
ate an oppressive male fantasy of 
:es Albury. “Certainly die bulk of 
uced pornography contains images 
kfional pornographic beauty.... However, 
accessibility of the technologies that allow 
on the Internet has allowed a wide range 
or’s italics] pornographic beauties to 
s to an extremely appreciative 
et pornography offers a unique 
ose with unconventional sexual tastes 
to interact in ways that are taken for 
with ‘normal’ interests.”
e way SuicideGiris is run resists the traditional 
f bjlctificatioti of women by allowing us to choose how 
¿ve^re portrayed,” says Pearl. “For instance, I don’t do 
ntaj ¿lots, and that’s my choice. It’s interesting that 
|een able to reclaim control over my sexuality. Yes, 
fm nude, but you can have it on my terms. It’s helped me 
take away that mythos on my body that it’s not cool for 
me to act or be a certain way. I can do what I want, and I 
|H3}&t respect no matter how I pose or what I 
or if I say something you don’t like. If I’m a Suicide 
1 agree with my opinions, but since I’m 
Un clothes off I get to say what I want.”
s itself on being nurturing and 
men and giving them opportunities to 
ality. “This girl with all the piercings 
g you off is beautiful,” says Pearl, 
in many cultures would be punished 
lor exhibiting their personality, and 
ut celebrating our freedom.”
CDeLN CDK 
itL1ADI Nr NHL ,DENDe
ef’’cbra 12 po:noAcou 2005.7

---------------------------------------------------

turntable
Big Al’s Metal Review
As the final strains of “Sanctuary” rang in my head, along 
with chants of “Maiden! Maiden!” from the weeping 40- 
year-old metal fans around me, I couldn’t help but smile. 
For you see, yet another summer was coming to a close, 
and I had just witnessed yet another spectacle from the 
mind of Madame Osbourne. Last year it was a reunited 
Judas Priest and Black Sabbath; this year a set by Iron 
Maiden culled exclusively from their first four albums. 
(And, yeah, Black Sabbath too.) What more could one 
reasonably ask for?
Well, perhaps Rob Zombie coming out of the darkness for 
a second stage show, along with The Haunted, Soilwork, 
Arch Enemy, and the remaining half of Sweden. Add a 
little Killswitch Engage, Mastodon, and Trivium to yankee 
it up a bit, dash a little celebrity here and there, and 
voilà! As with every major show I hit, there was a band in 
particular that I came to chat with. This time around, it 
was metal-core upstarts As I Lay Dying.
There has been a shift in the points of reference for the 
newest generation of bands to come our way. Maiden, 
Sabbath, At The Gates, and Guns N’ Roses all come to 
mind during CD spins and interviews. Sonically, these 
giants lay the framework for today’s artists. Lyrically, 
emotionally, the landscape is vastly different. Angst has 
been replaced with commentary on the present moral 
and political conscience of our society. Anger is focused on 
those who seek to destroy our freedom of expression. In 
this sea of confusion, bands like Hatebreed, Throwdown,
As I Lay Dying, and the late and much lamented Earth 
Crisis garner huge armies of fans that use their music as a 
beacon of hope and light in their lives. The bands in turn 
take this as a responsibility to their fans, and treat them 
with kindness beyond anything I’ve ever seen.
With this in mind, I sat down with vocalist Tim Lambesis 
of As I Lay Dying for a half hour, chatting about everything 
from religion to Camp Ozz. Tall, built, and covered in 
tattoos, the man is amazingly soft-spoken. As metal celebs 
mill around us, the first question out of my mouth is, "... 
So dude, what’s it like? Being on tour with the godfathers 
of Metal? Ever catch Ozzy or Bruce at a cookout?”
“Well, actually no. But I’ll tell you what is weird is waking 
up and seeing Will Smith walking around the [food] tent. 
It’s like a scene outta Independence Day.” (Jada Pinkett 
Smith’s band Wicked Wisdom was a late add-on to the 
tour, and the sci-fi star decided to tag along with his lady.) 
As our talk got deeper into the state of the world, and his 
(and the band’s) religious point of view, I couldn’t help 
but notice the Hebrew tattoo on his arm. “It’s out of Isaiah, 
where he says he is ready to serve, and this is how I feel. 
With all the other bands that share our Christian beliefs, 
we see a duty to our core of fans, and to all fans. We don’t 
push our views at all, and we have great discussions with 
people after our shows.”
“Ever have anybody tell you that you helped them out in 
their life?” I asked.
Albert Cohen/Senior Staff
Zakk Wylde and Black Label Society rock the crowd at the 
Post-Gazette Pavilion.
Ten years and counting: aninterview with As I Lay Dying from Ozzfest
“Absolutely.”
With their new album, Shadows are Security, AILD have 
established themselves beyond all expectations. The 
power of their chugga-chugga riffs competes with the 
intricate emotions layered within the songwriting. Check 
them out on tour, or at any music store near you.
Meanwhile, Shadow’s Fall and In Flames kicked ass on the 
main stage, having graduated to that level after years in 
the underground. Still, there was something a little odd 
seeing them up there. As Rob Zombie put it, among the 
sea of raised horns, “every day somebody asks me why 
I didn’t play the main stage this time around. Looking at 
you now, all I can say is ‘Isn’t it f— king obvious?’ ”
Until next time, Up the Irons!
Before I go, huge thanks go to Maria Ferrero and Loana 
DP Valencia for setting this up — you guys come through 
year after year. And Loana, nice to have ya back!
’IMLEN TrHLe 
iLeArE iNDPP
A view from the top: Big Al gets to look out on the massive Ozzfest crowd this summer.Albert Cohen/Senior Staff
NhggloUp c8 SbwIbnlb: 8%%Pp

---------------------------------------------------

National Constitution Day 
l| -Celebration Reception 
Posner Center 
Thursday, September 15th, 2005 
4pm - 6pm
Remarks by Professor Peter Shane
b ¦ ' '«i ' '<&$*'*'* ' .. »v > >W*5 ¦• I ' , .-• . ¦ .. ¦ ."The Living Constitution in the Information Age” 
Peter M. Shane Distinguished Service Professor (Adjunct) of Law and Public Policy, 
H. J. Heinz III School of Public Policy and Management
Professor Shane specializes in U.S. constitutional and administrative law and 
the law and social impacts of cyberspace. He is chair of the Advisory Board 
of Carnegie Mellon's institute for the Study of Information Technology and 
Society (InSITeS). Professor Shane was the founding Director of InSITeS 
from its inception in April, 2001 until the summer of 2003. Professor Shane 
will offer remarks at approximately 4:30pm on Thursday, September 15th in 
the Posner Center.
* ¦ ' V-Ar : .An original copy of the Bill of Rights will also be on display!
•
j
Supported by the Office of the Dean of Student Affairs, the History Department, and the
A quick, cheap recipe guaranteed to hit the spot
Meal blocks all used up? No DineX left? No problem. To avoid the ugly sight of 
students eating ketchup packets and two-week-old leftovers, this occassional col­
umn will give a recipe for a great meal for less than $10 or in less than 20 min-
Directions: Cut open the Fritos 
bag on one side. Heat chili for
30 seconds. Pour hot chili into 
Fritos bag. Add lettuce, cheese, 
tomato, and sour cream. Lightly 
toss ingredients within the Fritos 
bag, but not into the air! Pour the 
contents of the Fritos bag onto 
your plate and mix thoroughly.
Serves one hungry student.
Recipe from the Seattle World Fair, 
compliments of Bobbie Harmon, 
chef at Lost River Retreat Center.
’SDesD FIKee 
0AIIMrY OsANrE
utes. No stolen ketchup necessary.
On this week’s menu: “Saddlebags.”
What you will need:
• 1 package of corn chips, available 
at your local vending machine
• 1 cup of chili
•1/2 cup shredded cheese, Mexi­
can blend
•lettuce, tomato, and sour cream 
(optional)
_cuisine
Campus Cooks
limi QKelana/Art Staff
Come see an original copy of the Bill of Rights!
The Posner Center 
September 15th and 16th 
lpm-4pm
In honor of Constitution Day, the University Libraries will display 
one of only four existing first editions of the Bill of Rights. On 
permanent loan to the university by the Posner family, the 1792 
document was distributed by Thomas Jefferson to governors of the 
14 states and is a vital component of U.S. history and one of the 
many notable works in the Posner Collection. Please also join us 
for a Constitution Day celebration reception on Thursday, 
September 15,2005 from 4-6pm in the Posner Center.
NhggloUp c8 SbwIbnlb: 8%%Pp

---------------------------------------------------

Yol/fi FfiiÉHO HAS' AC¡-0W£D 
vs To iMftflNT pfíLse.Of HIS £x-<yR<-fetÊ/M|> 7W/f
SWOÍ/t-í) ic.tfip HIM fgOM 
PlNHIg fe* HÊ/Ç
TiM I THIWK THF j ¦; OUESTIÍÍi ME Sí íS L‘¿Q 
Agftrr {¦* «or ye»'. 0r~TT77~7^A ~~C
miX, Fôit OWC TttlUú IP f'AtjC seÁmewr Beiw6(wHyCoui ÍTII-t- BglWô &RA6$gú / A*3UN& ¿>M A
You CANT gÊMO^ÊCindyShea
8i>r you can ftcTÊ/8 TWÊM.
Tyler, its IS i»íV4Krupt*fc,
W£¿Ly we. M£r Jwjr AfTgg s»c 
&f°K6 Off“ í->tT*n:F
!...AWD X ?£rt£Mfl£A.8£iwG vÊ(»r user *«6 É+r(t£*e.L.r
WTF! by Josh Atlas and Jon Brodskykewlcomix@cmu.eda
YCAH, gor X 
Çifi>4 INTo H£R 
THE ornen üp,y 
AWf) SH£ ¿.oofcs 
R6A«xr Ht»T Noí
You nSolh krtsgi6t£M€MOfii£S Of H£RI
¦5H£ SM€t££D of fierre* 
MILK AWf> W£fc W<4|£
WffsrCb w/TH Sco«fioAiS,'
Qoot>. So JÓÜÉS5 Yow 
boo/r t*JAf>r 
HtR fiArteAWTmO££ .
yj^flcr^rt ttr 
X Do.
W o tr«#-Suf<5
TiNyse fu*vi<9 laneUivrsatr Tif^s£?i;KU.c°M
All Hail The Jon by Jon Samuels jsamuell@andrew
tto Weswlftt
; AfJO 6THÍRÍ5TÚ-L tsah&tn lR£.DAyiSa«R AMD Dow (sfi kj££DWG
1 Mk M°rWRMDWW.
SOME StgEPSO
THAT THgy HAL.BREAK- d
crmÇjMr P? 
1/SMc MAy 
Wtte iWA, 
MtëËite./,
-IfEŒsrmFWf
11:45 by Lea Albaughlea@andrew
untitled_l.dwg by Grace Whang and Billy Small
rHi'. T'm xVKUi
ftf-tist of fc»>e fijM ux-iH»“
ikrtt,u*4“ • <w3®r",% ****,Comt wi«.JC°T
'i'll l*t 
ijou in o*i 
jfcwe ?> <Y*>si 
irr\poft<wH I -fcbinûpall I
a^cWies I kWould fcn«Aj
$€*11 ~ 
lu¿r¿rfi'S£.
-..................rT»:* ft© £v«’-^-thino ioo*Sf vjetver- 
cypher fiy»<-e«ÿvfa voaif$.ÜPP««^C'®'sSl^*r’ »nMwuntt. -¦>¦«3.0^ 1 tM<g <*Q.____
U«H5 if reborn.
•fu»n¡h^ «JkLdi»* $K*vU to *,r( tkÀ, «+
c?AAM’bm 5- eh01hCMh4 -uuGa
__comics________________
Tyler and Fred by Greg Prichard gprichar@andrew Tiny Sepuku tinysepuku@hotmail.com

---------------------------------------------------

Bob the Angry Flower by Stephen NotleyAlmost Exactly by Laura Frye Danielslfrye@andrewwww.angryflower.com
•er;jerH*u-
Aie m? J —ip——HeftGiffôf Cti£CK iraorf
yhPf_g Cour teosyf. 10pmPrK h6rmrff79gye/ZtmPMiioor/
Hauls* tVwlf
iSc-uoou! T've ONbnewoNÊ w\Tri 'yoo!/
£>P£W you* £Y£5! 
_:P3Ok6gn6L pb _f T3y Aw :,AdF
p;<o^vM-á'A/ j ip* <><».+£=ir j
âcs^ïnavn-
(TWi t”=*f N°,X'<v, ol-óoi^io, My volaaowjjfl "N __ I ' tó<ym\ HoJjoUTt- opi*.?*'"«''-----ljrteserryfA ljfGigga/sS +o IH'-2P Stuay S3V Co,,, cy> ar*#rrr l r,„y. C«Attjw toacfcW.Î.
Call It Schwing by Frankie Williamsfhw@andrew
So I was talking to my buddy the other day and he made some nasty comm... um.. is it just me., or docs the room seem bigger to you?
No, dude, seriously., my text goes, like, twice as far as it usually docs.. I'M NOT LIMITED BY BORDERS!! I'll finish this sentence in the next frame ‘cause I have so much room., wait, where’d it go?! NO!! Comeback!!
Jm E. AVWTHItfir 
YW WMIT OSTO &>T1H£\£e* lÄTseFims 
w veSTF :-i5H_fI£ kPffxLh<wfhçtékriatis sit 
1U
OMGBRBWTF.LOLAFKMIASTFU!!
Ph.D. by Jorge Chamwww.phdcomics.com
YEAH? WELLl AT LEAST I 
SHOWER ON A 
REGOLAR j 
.BASISI A
YEAH, TO THE ^ 
YOUNG DUDE: VOU 
60, MAN, VOU DONT OWE NOTHIN'; 
JO NOBODY... aAn
..AND WE'RE By
¿ACK_ JOHNNY f HERE HAS JUST 
!L CONFESSED...
HAHA, HE'S JUST 
MAKING UP FOR 
HIS RECEDING 
HAIRLlNEi AN
IMF Diary by Robert Kaminskirkaminsk@andrew
Otherm ohnMych aespl .S 
b.w*eD KMn nymmebbF 
.pA pMi iMn*m KMn 
v.nDF nymmebbrm MKKsweV 
v.oet beorm he.n KnMv 
Rohe AUDIENCE. i
f AND TO THE DUDE 
WITH THE PONY TAIL: 
AIN'T NOBODY TOLD 
YOU PONY TAILS 
l WENT OUTTA STYLE 
fcL AGES A&0?i
Y WHATEVER, I'M" 
'NOT THE ONE WHO 
BUSTS CHEESY 
80'S MUSIC IN THE 
L OFFICE ALL DAYi.
FIGHTi
FIGHTi
WHOOOOI
f LET'S* 
f DITCH THE 
LOSER AND 
L GET SOME \ COFFEE
STOPi CANT YOU 
SEE? MARY CAN GIVE ME SOME­
THING YOU CANT..
YOU'RE THE ^ 
WORST 
OFFICEMATE 
,IVE EVER HADJ
rrr i - uir*c.
I'M GOING 
TO SHARE 
MY 6RANT 
WITH HIM...
7 YOUR 
FELLOWSHIP 
k RAN OUT?
I'M SURE THERE'S W| 
A LESSON HERE H SOMEWHERE,
^TOMORROW ON OUR 
I SHOW: ADVISORS 
k GONE WILDL
MET? YOUR MESS 
TAKES UP HALF 
THE OFFICE, AND 
YOU YAK ON THE 
PHONE ALL DAYI
FUNDING.
OOOHH.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ^
c?AAM’bm 5- eh01hCMh4 -uuGm

---------------------------------------------------

comics
Comickaze by Max Kaufmannmaximilian@cmu.edu
12ef’’cbra 12 po:noAcou 2005.

---------------------------------------------------

HOROSCOPES
BY ASH LEIGH MOLZ
ARIES (March 21 - April 19): Your sign is supposed to be 
argumentative, but you may have taken it too far. When’s the last 
time you talked to your girlfriend? And who’s that kid you've seen 
her holding hands with?
TAURUS (April 20 - May 20): Don’t bother doing your laundry. 
No machine can get that stench out
GEMINI (May 21 - June 21): How do you like living in CatMan 
so far? It seems pretty nice besides the lead paint and pipes, old 
decrepit furniture, and clogged drains. Just' watch out. You never 
know when your ceiling could collapse.
CANCER (June 22 - July 22): Have your roommates asked why 
you have a crystal-growing kit yet?
LEO (July 23 - August 22): The dark blue mold growing at the 
bottom of your kitchen wastebasket cannot be a good thing. Do 
something about it. And don’t just leave it for your roommate.
VIRGO (August 23 - September 22): The combination of Saturn 
and Venus co-existing in your house and the Moon swinging into 
a 90-degree lock with Jupiter can only mean one thing for you: 
Don’t eat the roast beef. Or the bleu cheese. Or that fruitcake 
that’s been in the fridge since last Christmas.
LIBRA (September 23 - October 23): Nice job. Drooling all 
over the desk on the first day probably really impressed your 
professor.
SCORPIO (October 24 - November 21): No, changing your 
phone number several times and moving out of state will not 
make Blockbuster lose interest in the hundreds of dollars you 
owe them. Just how many movies .did. you lose?
SAGITTARIUS (November 22 - December 21): You can do no 
wrong early in this week - everything's going your way! But mid­
week it'll all end. Enjoy the elation while it lasts.
CAPRICORN (December 22 - January 19): This week people 
with your sign will be extra lucky with love. So go on, swoon over 
that special someone with something special.
AQUARIUS (January 20 - February 18): There’s a strong chance 
that you will become much closer to someone this weekend. 
That may or may not be taken literally. It may or may not be 
romantic.
PISCES (February 19 - March 20): Learn to dance. You’ll pick 
up all the hot ladies. Well, at the very least, ladies.
fi-naAh Ld’Uq-o
ch gA H’Uca­h
123,•4
567I’
10ii1213
14Î1“St
1711’
202122
2324«
2526
2728293031
3233343536
3738394041
4243
44454647484950
51-
525354 155,¦
5657585960
61|
62
6465I
66
671
6869
2!dnFF
1. Hoover’s org.
4. Indian tea type
9. Operate a loom
14. Grog, less the water
15. Certain antibiotic, for short
16. Legendary 11th-century Valencian ruler
17. Compass dir.
18. Lowland British biome
19. Lermontov’s  ____of Our Time (2 wds.)
20. William Jennings Bryan on the Coinage 
Act of 1873?
23. Give over
24. Tumult
25. Actress Carrere
27. Resting place for the Ark
30. Things in paws, painfully
32. Shocked
36. Photographer Jacob
Snoh
i.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
21. 
22, 
26. 
28. 
29. 
31.
Grapefruit soda by Coke 
More rushed
The shoe-collecting Marcos 
S/’s Sportsman of the Year, 1992 
Plaintiff in a civil case, perhaps 
Word with poetry or dunk 
Following chronologically 
Gordon’s foe at Khartoum 
Partner of health and wisdom 
K-12, in other words (Abbr.)
Not in the middle 
It’s for lovers 
Old-time Tokyo 
Patio or porch
Atom of a Liechtenstein or Seurat work
Non-profit org., maybe
Iron or Bronze
First word of “The Raven”?
Paper-folding art
37. Victor Emmanuel to Pius IX following the 
unification of Italy, 1870
42. It’s over matter
43. William Holden film:______17
44. Exonerates
47. 1996 Schwarzenegger flick
51. Charlemagne’s city:___-la-Chappelle
52. Opposite of “endo-”
55. Opposite of “stereo-”
56. Benedict Arnold on his weekend plans, 
September 23,1780
61. Features of earthworms and gecko feet
62. Gone with the Wind protagonist Scarlett
63. Party prop, often
64. “20 Questions” guess lead-in
65. After the bell
66. Common perfume name part
67. Sesame Street grouch
68. Talkative type, perhaps
69. Bug bane
33. Pop-ups, e.g.
34. Gained a lap?
35. Knoxville power co., est. 1933
37. 1978 hit for the Village People
38. Unctuosity
39. Everyday
40. Shakespearean steinful
41. Sea dog
45. Judge an appeal, maybe
46. Letters following “poli” or “comp”
48. Dripping
49. Atum, Osiris, Isis, and six others
50. Subparbooze
53. Investment with interest
54. Ancient Celtic alphabet
57. “See you later!”
58. Jeanne at Orléans
59. Mahler’s Das Lied von der____
60. Actress Dunaway
61. Place to find grades at CMU
NhggloUp c8 SbwIbnlb: 8%%Pp

---------------------------------------------------

Hurricane Katrina
How You Can Help:
CARNEGIE MELLON HURRICANE RELIEF DRIVE
In conjunction with the Brother's Brother's All individual students, faculty, staff and
Foundation, CMU Service will be collecting campus organizations/departments are
Flood Buckets and Health Kits. encouraged to participate.
FLOOD BUCKETS
• 5-gailon bucket with resealable lid
• Bleach (two 1-quart or one 82 oz. bottle.
Do not include bleach if you are shipping 
the bucket through the US Postal Service, 
UPS or FedEX
• 5 scouring pads
• 7 sponges
• 1 scrub brush
• 18 cleaning towels (reusable wipes)
• Liquid laundry detergent (two 25 oz. 
or one 50 oz. bottle)
• 1 household cleaner, 12-16 oz. bottle
• Disinfectant dish soap, 16-28 oz. bottle
• 50 clothes pins
• Clothes line (two 50 ft. or one 100 ft.)
• 5 dust masks
• 2 pair latex gloves
• 1 pair work gloves
• 24-bag roll of heavy-duty trash bags, 33-45 
gallon (remove roll from box before placing 
in bucket)
• 1 insect repellant spray, 6-14 oz. can (if 
aerosol, cans must have protective caps)
• 1 air freshener, 8 or 9 oz. can (if aerosol, 
cans must have protective caps)
• Special Requirements: Put all items in the 
plastic bucket and seal lid. Please ensure that 
all cleansing agents are liquid (not powder) 
and in plastic bottles.
HEALTH KITS:
1 hand towel 
1 washcloth 
1 comb
1 nail file or fingernail clippers (no 
emery boards or toenail clippers)
1 bath-size bar of soap (3 oz. and up)
1 toothbrush (single brushes only in 
original wrapper)
1 large tube of toothpaste (expiration 
date must be 6 months or longer)
6 adhesive plastic strip sterile bandages 
ANY ADDITIONAL HEALTH ITEMS 
WITHIN REASON
Place these items inside a sealed one- 
gallon plastic bag.
ic DROP OFF
You can begin to drop off your 
completed Flood Buckets or Health 
Kits to the following locations:
Hurricane Relief-Rebuild Table, 
University Center 
(Tabling will begin on Tuesday, 
September 6th from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.)
Student Development Office, 
Morewood Gardens A-Tower 
(Open Monday-Thursday from 
8:30a~7p and Fridays 8:30a~5p)

---------------------------------------------------

calendar
MONDAY 12
Aesthetics Out of Bounds Lecture Series: Trinh T. 
Min-ha. Chosky Theater, on campus. 5 pm. Free. Minh-ha 
is a filmmaker, writer, and composer. She has received the 
AFI National Independent Filmmaker Maya Deren Award, 
among other awards and grants. She is a professor at the 
University of California, Berkeley.
Author John Hoerr. Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh. 1 
pm. Free. Freelance writer will discuss his forthcoming 
book, “Harry, Tom, and Father Rice: Accusations and Be­
trayal in America’s Cold War.”
MDC, Suburban Death Machine, Dawn of Ruin. Mr.
Roboto Project. 7 pm. Tickets $6.412.247.9639.
Ron Sexsmith. Club Café. 7 pm. Tickets $12 in advance, 
$14 the day of the show. Ages 21+. Singer/songwriter will 
perform selections from his CD Retriever.
FRIDAY 16
The Choice Cuts Reading Series. Featuring poet 
Yona Harvey and fiction writer Guy Hogan. Slaughterhouse 
Gallery, Lawrenceville. 7:30 pm. Free. 412.688.8328.
Pittsburgh Center for the Arts 60th Anniversary 
Celebration. PCA Campus at 6300 Fifth Avenue.
6-11 pm. Tickets $25 for general admission. Art will be on 
display. 412.361.0873.
Deadly Lessons: A Comedy Murder Mystery Dinner 
Show. Gaetano’s Restaurant, 1617 Banksville Road. 7:30 
pm. Tickets: $27.50 (includes dinner, show, tax, and non­
alcoholic beverages). 1.800.719.0998.
TUESDAY 13
Artist’s Lecture: Luis Camnitzer. McConomy Au­
ditorium. 5 pm. Free. Camnitzer is an artist, writer, and 
curator. His art combines poetic metaphor with a critique 
of power. He has written on contemporary art, including 
his book New Art of Cuba. He is currently a curator at The 
Drawing Center in New York City.
Beginner Yoga. Amazing Yoga, Shadyside. 5:45 pm. Call 
412.856.9856 for details on how to enroll.
Troubled Hubble. Club Café. 7 pm. Cover charge $5. 
Ages 21+.
SATURDAY 17
Southside Stroll. East Carson Street Business District. 
10:30 am. Free. Tour one of Pittsburgh’s most celebrated 
main streets and neighborhoods. Tour begins in the 
garden in front of the Birmingham mural at 12th and E. 
Carson Streets. Reservations appreciated. 412.471.5808 
ext. 527.
Walkmen. Mr. Small’s Theatre. Doors open at
7 pm, show starts at 8 pm. Tickets $10 in advance, $13 
the day of the show. All ages. With Richard Swift, Sons of 
National Freedom, and Rockwell.
WEDNESDAY 14
Fifth and Forbes Walking Tour. Downtown. 12 pm. 
Much of this area’s architecture is still worth attention. 
Meet at the clock in Market Square. Reservations appreci­
ated. 412.471.5808.
Salman Rushdie. Byham Theater. 7:30 pm. Tickets 
start at $20. Hear the award-winning author of six novels 
speak.
SUNDAY 18
Voices of Dissent: Stories of Protest in American 
History. Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh. 6:30 pm. Free. 
Storytellers Alan Irvine and Scott Pavelle tell stories of 
protest and lead a discussion of the role of dissent in 
American democracy.
Atmosphere. Mr. Small’s Theatre. 7:30 pm. Tickets 
$15 in advance, $17 the day of the show. All ages. With 
Blueprint and P.O.S.
THURSDAY 15
Cuarteto Latinoamericano. Alumni Concert Hall.
7:30 pm. Free to the public. 412.268.2383.
Books in the Afternoon. Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh. 
1 pm. Free. This month’s selection is Empire Falls, by 
Richard Russo.
MONDAY 19
From Autumn to Ashes. Mr. Small’s Theatre. Doors 
open at 6 pm, show starts at 7 pm. All ages. Tickets $13 
in advance and $15 the day of the show. With Armor for 
Sleep, Emanuel, and Biology.
Visit us online at
Call for Artists. Fellowship 2005: Sixth Annual Fellowship Competition for Award and Exhibition. Deadline is October 14. 
Photographers invited to submit entries for the Fellowship Compétition. One photographer will receive a $5000 fellowship 
and have a one-person exhibition in the Main Gallery of the Silver Eye Center for Photography. Ten honorable mentions will 
be given. There is no entry fee but the competition is limited to those who join Silver Eye (which includes a membership 
fee). 412.431.1810 or www.silvereye.org.
Call for Submissions. For Sex Worker Anthology. Deadline is October 15. Submission length: 1500-3500 words. 
Contributors wanted for an anthology of writing by sex trade workers to be published by Soft Skull Press. All views of the 
industry are welcome. All genders may submit. Essays, narratives and comics are acceptable submission forms.
Animal Nature. Regina Gouger Miller Gallery, on ca.mpus. Through October 2. Free to the public. Gallery hours: 
Tues—Sun., 11:30 am-5 pm. An exhibition developed out of an ongoing Web project titled “Criminal Animal." For details, 
contact Jenny Strayer at 412.268.3877.
www.mysweetbasil.com
and GetFree Thai DinnerCertificate A. Upscale
l v\7i Casual DiningModern Thai & Filipino Cuisine
BYOB Absolutely
SWEET BASIL I No Corkage Fee
LA FILIPINIANA Tel. 412-606-0279, 412-781-8724
Pillbox. 12 September 2005.

---------------------------------------------------

gallery
Students had the chance to get information and sign up for student organizations on campus at the 
annual Activities Fair, held Wednesday on the College of Fine Arts lawn. One of the highlights from 
this year’s fair was the robot from the renowned Robotics Club, which playfully taunted other students 
at the fair.
