The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 36. No. 2CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OP TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA. WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1942
Former Member 
Of Faculty Dies
One of the most unpleasant of re­
cent events is the death of Professor 
Harold Geoghegan at Coburg, On­
tario, last Friday morning. Mr.
. . . Professor Geoghegan
Geoghan was a member of the fac­
ulty of the Drama Department from 
1911 until his retirement last spring.
His active participation as a 
member of the Board of Directors 
of the Pittsburgh Art Society and 
a contributor to the Carnegie Mag­
azine will be missed.
All who knew him will not only 
remember Mr. Geoghegan for his 
wealth of knowledge in the Arts, 
but also as an understanding and 
lovable personality.
Style Clinic Held 
At Maggie Murph
A “clinic” for the conservation 
and remodeling of clothes will be 
conducted at Carnegie Tech begin­
ning Monday evening, September
14, in the Department of Costume 
Economics. Miss Virginia Alex­
ander, head of the Department of 
Costume Economics, the faculty, and 
the students of the department plan 
to offer advice on style, remodeling, 
and care of clothes to those who at­
tend the “clinic.” Classes will be 
held from 7:30 to 9:30 P. M. each 
Monday in the laboratories of the 
Department of Costume Economics, 
Margaret Morrison building, second 
floor.
For eight consecutive Monday 
evenings the women of Pittsburgh 
are invited to use the facilities of the 
department to solve their individual 
clothes problem. There will be no 
charge for this assistance. Altera­
tions will be suggested to those who 
bring garments to the meetings, and 
assistance will be given in the re­
modeling of the garments. If the 
‘“made-over” costume would not be 
satisfactory, alterations will not be 
recommended.
At the first meeting of the class 
the purposes of the “clinic” and the 
program of the eight meetings will 
be outlined.
Student Conference 
Committee Frames 
Program For Year
A definite program has been ar­
ranged for the Student Conference 
Committee, sounding board of the 
student body. The first dinner 
meeting of the year was held Thurs­
day, September 3. Subsequent 
meetings will be held the first 
Thursday of every month in the 
Faculty Dining Room of Carnegie 
Inn. Various problems will be pre­
sented to be discussed and acted 
upon by the heads of organizations 
and publications.
The committee was created over 
a year ago to assure greater op­
portunity for conference between 
President Doherty and student lead­
ers. It was through the efforts of 
the Student Conference Committee 
that Saturday classes were eliminat­
ed for the expedited summer 
courses. The Committee was also 
influential in having facilities for 
housing Kiltie Band instruments 
improved.
The members of the Committee 
are: John Van Arsdell, Jr., Presi­
dent of Student Council; Lucille 
Orr, Secretary of Student Council; 
Leonard Chotiner, Editor of the 
Tartan; John Horth, President of 
Men’s Dormitory Council; Mary 
Jane Jones, President of Women’s 
Dormitory Council; David Ross, 
President of Interfraternity Coun­
cil; Suzanne O’Brien, President of 
Intersorority Council; Max Wil­
liams, President of Interhonorary 
Council and Editor of Carnegie 
Technical; Walter Gretzler, Presi­
dent of Citcom Clanffi and Alice 
Morgan, President of Sotch & Soda.
In addition, the President may 
find it desirable to appoint one or 
two members at large. The only 
one of these at present is Marjorie 
Kemp.
Publications Present 
Plebe Punch Party
Freshmen, if in your short days at 
Tech you have wondered about the 
various publications on campus and 
yearned to know more of their ac­
tivities and functions, bring your 
yearnings and wonderings to the 
“Punch Party” sponsored by the 
Men’s and Women’s journalistic hon- 
oraries. Alpha Chi Alpha and Pi 
Delta Epsilon will be waiting with 
a nose full of news to welcome you 
to the Card Room in the Union at 
four o’clock this afternoon. There 
you will hear speakers representing 
the “Tartan,” “Scottie,” “Thistle,” 
“Carnegie Technical,” “Tri Pub,” 
and “Dorm Bagpiper” staffs. Each 
will try to draft you as a worker, 
but after all is said and done, you’re 
sure to find the type of work you 
want.
Don’t, however, think that this is 
to be one of those “speechy” after­
noons. We want you to enjoy your­
selves and get to know the members 
of both honoraries. By way of di­
version for your brain, fun and en­
tertainment will be provided. As 
for your tummy, you can fill it with 
punch and cookies.
Students To Vote Next Tuesday To 
Elect Fall Carnival Campus Queen
Ray Eberle
'lerutiA. Champ.
Tech Junior Forsakes 
Tennis For Career
by Ruth Tisherman
Though gallantry in action means 
the Distinguished Service Cross for 
Johhny Doughboy, it just signifies 
another trophy for Tech’s “woman 
behind the racquet,” Lucy Borrelli, 
otherwise known as Pittsburgh’s 
Women’s Tennis League Champion.
Having discovered at the age of 
ten that a hard tennis match “really 
interested people” Lucy determined 
to learn the game with the result 
that she won her first trophy as 
Tennis Champion of Allegheny 
County while yet in high school. 
Today this versatile junior is the 
proud possessor of twelve trophies 
including figures, loving cups, and 
lockets.
As an award for her prowess be­
hind the net, Lucy was awarded 
lessons under Eleanor Tennant, 
Alice Marble’s coach. Before this 
valuable coaching, Tech’s tennis 
champ says, “I just taught myself.”
As the second ranking woman 
tennis player in western Pennsylva­
nia, Lucy received a bid to the Na­
tional Championship being held this 
week in Forest Hills, N. Y.; but de­
spite the fact that this invitation 
had been her goal for years, she had 
to decline. The reason?—Lucy’s 
career comes first and as a pianist in 
Tech’s music department she is now 
racing over the keyboard instead 
of over the courts.
Thistle Photographs
Seniors may have their photo­
graphs taken for this year’s Thistle 
during the first three weeks in Oc­
tober. The Thistle staff does not, 
however, plan to follow the ac­
celerated program by publishing 
the yearbook in December. In­
stead, they will mail copies to the 
seniors who are in the expedited 
program. The seniors will have 
their addresses taken when they 
are photographed.
Carnegie Tech’s second annual 
Fall Carnival will take place on Fri­
day and Saturday, September 18 
and 19. A varied entertainment 
schedule has been arranged, includ­
ing a Coney Island night, a dance, 
pushmobile races, and the Campus 
Queen coronation. This year’s Fall 
Carnival is especially important to 
those students graduating in De­
cember, since they will not be here 
for the traditional Spring Carnival.
A street dance carrying out the 
theme, “Coney Island Night,” will 
be the main attraction by the Hut to 
the music of Tom Purcell’s Scotch 
and Soda Orchestra. Campus or­
ganizations plan to have numerous 
novelty booths on the Cut. A ferris 
wheel will add to the Coney Island 
atmosphere.
The coronation of the Campus 
Queen, to be elected on September 
15, is scheduled to take place in the 
Sylvan Theatre on Saturday after­
noon. A pushmobile race for the 
boys and competitive races for the 
girls have also been planned.
The big event of Fall Carnival is 
to be an informal dance on Saturday 
night in the gym. Gene Krupa, the 
nation’s top drummer, and his band 
will furnish the music. Soloists 
sharing the spotlight with Krupa 
are Anita O’Day, lovely lady of 
song, Ray Eberle, baritone star 
(formerly with Glenn Miller), and 
Roy Eldridge, trumpet wizard.
Peace Problem 
To Be Discussed
A stimulating discussion on 
“Possible Peace Settlements After 
the War,” will be sponsored by the 
Tech Discussion group Tuesday. 
All Carnegie students are invited 
to come to this session and air their 
views on the current world situation 
and peace plans. Remember:
Time: 12:30 P. M., Tuesday, Sep­
tember 15.
Place: Conference Room, 229C, 
Industries Building.
This club, organized last term by 
enthusiastic engineers, completed a 
very successful first season. Among 
the many topics discussed were 
war problems, the plight of Britain, 
and the labor situation.
Evidently the Social Relations 
courses have erased the engineers’ 
prejudices concerning women; for, 
while the club was composed of 
men students only last year, the 
group this semester is open to the 
female of the species as well as the 
male element.
Handbooks Available
William C. Heer, Printing ’42, ed­
itor of the Tri-Publications staff, 
announces that Handbooks may be 
obtained in Mr. Murphy’s office 
upon presentation of registration 
receipt or athletic card. Upper­
classmen may call for copies as long 
as the present supply lasts.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1942
Zâitoàial Column-
Freshman Hazing-—Back Again?
Two years ago, a comprehensive program of orientation for the freshmen 
was instituted at Carnegie Tech. It was a good program which functioned 
efficiently in acclimating the freshmen to their new environment. This year, 
however, a group of dormitory residents decided that they didn’t like the 
old system. Evidently, they believed that the accredited orientation program 
was outmoded and dull; that it did not instill the true Tech spirit into the 
hearts of the plebes. Acting accordingly, this group revived most of the 
hackneyed aspects of freshmen hazing, an example of which is illustrated by 
the picture to the right of this column. It is, as the chief whip-yielders of the 
freshmen say, “the sort of thing that creates school spirit.”
In 1939, the Tartan led the drive to eliminate hazing from the campus, and 
at that time several members of the faculty were asked for their opinions on 
the subject. The comments of these men make very interesting reading and are 
just as applicable to the present group of frosh-baiters as they were three 
years ago. The late Dr. Ihrig, who was at the time Dean of Freshmen Engi­
neering and one of the best liked men in school said, “The most active seniors 
are usually those who haven’t quite gotten beyond their freshman year in their 
studies—they have the biggest mouths and the biggest paddles. They usually 
haven’t passed their last re-exam.”
Dr. Schoen, Head of the Department of Psychology and Education was 
quoted as saying, “Hazing is humiliating and degrading to those who are the 
vietims. ..It encourages the roughest elements on the campus to display its 
wares ... It does not decrease the egotism of the victim, a condition which 
when it exists is not an evil, but instead increases the egotism of the rough­
neck ...”
The next time you see a group of infantile upperclassmen doing their best 
to make life miserable for some freshman, remember these two quotations. We 
think you’ll find that they apply in every instance.
Journalism At Its Worst
Attitudes of the newspapers toward labor unions are explemified by the 
weekend coverages of Labor Day by various newspapers. The Pittsburgh Sun 
Telegraph reported for its local lead story the experiences of a staff reporter 
with the A. F. of L. at a Meadville defense pla#t. In true Pegler fashion as to 
the choice of material and emotional terms, the story gave the facts in a nice 
stirring anti-labor fashion.
A few days ago President Roosevelt announced that a law for freezing 
wages was being drafted. This should help to eliminate the wildcat strikes 
which have been the major cause for popular enmity toward unions, but the 
stoppage of union baiting by the newspapers is questionable.
Acceptance of unionism as it is today might be difficult for everyone; but 
unionism has passed through a Rennaissance under the Roosevelt administra­
tion and has taken its place as one of our much-needed liberalizing influences. 
The epithet of big business has been hurled many times at the newspapers; 
never has it been more apparent than during its campaign to discredit union­
ism. a campaign which most of the papers have conducted during the last few 
years. This type of newspaper activity approximates the crime waves that 
were the results of the Jacot Riis method of news-reporting at the turn of 
the century. At this stage of our national history, we need an unbiased pre­
sentation of our current labor affairs, if we are to have a well-balanced public 
opinion.
By JJS
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the 
staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not 
to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh, Pa.
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2600 PHONE SCHENLEY 4557
RKFfKKNTED FOB NATIONAL ADVEBTISWO BY After Office HOUrS Call
National Advertising Service, Inc. Editor-in-chief...........................sc. 9855
Business Manager...................................SC. 9855
caicFo • Boston • to* AMcun • rme MembOfeOo Adertising Manager...............................BR. 4759
Entered a1 second-class matter in the Pittsburgh Post Office under the Act of March 3, 1870.
Published weekly during school year, except holidays and examination periods.
Subscription Price $1.06 per year.
Editor-in-Chief.................................................................................................Leonard Chotiner
Business Manager....................................................................................................Ted Nierenberg
Co-Managing Editors..............................................................................................William C. King
Jack Shore
Co-Copy Editors....................................................................................................Walter W. Haller
Stanley A. Rosecrans
Staff Secretaries................................... ................ ..........................................................Pat Elman
Jeanne King
Sports Editor.............................................................................................•................Don Watkins
Personnel Manager..............................................................................................Melvin H. Snyder
Advertising Manager.............................................................................................Wilbur Thomas
Circulation Manager..............................................................................................Seymore Weiss
Staff Artist........... ................................................   .....................................................Elliott Twery
Staff Photographer...................................................................................................Edward Munyer
Business Staff: Jerry Jacobs, Morry Rosecrans.
Junior Editors: Helena Aronson, Doreen Barry, Walt Darby, Gerry Edelson, T. J.
Harmany, Dave Neuss, Louise Saul, Harry Weiss.
Two freshmen participating in a push-a-cigarette with-your-nose race
amusing for the audience.It’s very
one of the girls
There are many disadvantages to 
the expedited program; one of them, 
of course, is that Lucille Orr grad­
uates too soon. There’ll have to be 
a lot of efficient voting to get a new 
secretary for Student Council, his-
torian for Mortar Board, and as­
sociate editor for the Thistle come 
December and graduation.
Lu is that lovely blond who is al­
ways saying hello to a thousand 
people at once and always has Nels 
Crooks on her right arm.
Her important role on the campus 
began when she was a freshman and 
was voted to Cwens, Sophomore 
honorary; it continued going up 
nicely when the Cwens voted her 
their leader. And when she was a 
junior, Techites en masse voted her 
their pet by making her Snow 
Queen. The tall, slim figure, the 
clear, blue eyes have been gracious 
assets to just about all of Tech’s af­
fairs.
A perfect illustration of the kind 
of thing Lu does: When Mr. Erlick, 
the accounting prof, was drafted 
and wrote from the Army camp far 
away that he was lonesome, Lu 
snapped into action. From the This­
tle office she got one of those mile- 
long strips of papers. Every mem­
ber of the class, at Lu*s instigation,
. . . Lucille Orr
wrote something on it to him. The 
letter was signed and sealed with a 
picture of the girls signing it en­
closed, and was sent down to Pvt. 
Erlick chock full of cheer. When 
she leaves us in December, Lucille 
will be our idea of THE perfect sec­
retary. In fact, if we had enough 
money, we’d hire her ourselves.
Council Minutes
The meeting was called to order' at 7:15 P. M.
Absent: Messrs. Emberg, Spitaleri,
Boyce, and Sher; and Miss Gehrett. 
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
Elections
Mr. Beatty moved for the acceptance of 
a petition for a freshman class election to 
be held in Margaret Morrison on Tuescfay, 
September 29, and for a sophomore Sen­
ate representative.
Motion carried. ,
Mr. Beatty moved for the approval of a 
petition from the Dragon Society for an 
election of the Campus Queen to be held on September 8, 1942.
Motion carried.
OLD BUSINESS
It was moved that Council committee- 
chairmen be required to make reports of 
their activities at the end of the term of office.
Motion carried.
NEW BUSINESS
It was moved that the petition from the 
Dragon Society to be allowed to sell 
ROTC socks and ties be approved.
Motion carried.
It was moved that the Dragon Society 
be allowed to change the date of their tea 
dance from September 10 to September 8.
Motion carried.
Mr. Turner, of the Chalif School of 
Dancing, asked that Student Council 
sponsor a dancing class to be given by his 
firm. A motion was made to consider the 
promotion of such a class.
Motion carried.
Mr. Van Arsdell appointed Miss Zonge 
to investigate the matter and to report 
her findings to Council at the next 
meeting.
Mr. Van Arsdell announced that, due to 
the failure of Mr. Raymond Simboli to 
enroll this term, Miss Frances Carlock is 
now the president of the Arts Senate.
Mr. Schatz read a petition from the staff 
of the ART-ICLE to have an appropria­
tion from Student Council. Mr. Morton 
Cohn, business manager of the proposed 
magazine, explained to the members of 
Council the purpose of the magazine.
After some discussion, it was moved 
that the matter be tabled until the next 
meeting, at which time there will be a 
report from the Publications Committee 
and the Treasurer.
Motion carried.
Adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
LUCILLE ORR.

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1942THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
Slipstiek Fantasy
By Jack Shore
Things are settling back to normal, but this department had quite a scare 
during the few days a gracious administration gave us for a vacation.. On the 
way to Buffalo, I stopped at Warren State Hospital, to visit a friend work­
ing there. While touring the institution I was struck by the timelessness of 
the place and the blank looks on the faces of the inmates. The latter began 
to affect me; after awhile I began to shy from looking any passers-by in the 
eye. A shallow dread started growing, and a desire came over me to get 
back to places where people looked spirited, as at Tech.
The fear kept developing as I left, but it was whipped into hysteria when 
I went on to Buffalo and Jamestown and saw the same vacant stares meet­
ing my glance. My spirits were shored, however, by the thought that soon 
I would be back at Tech and everything would be*all right in that intellect 
ual atmosphere. Monday I returned to school after having spent a haunting 
night looking at strange faces with empty expressions. When I looked 
searchingly around at the faces that were supposed to be normal, my stomach 
dropped at the comparison between the Warren student body and this one. 
It’s still frightening to contemplate, but I keep reassuring myself by saying 
over and over again “That’s why they call it a crazy world.”
Toddling across the campus last week, I was startled by a Thurberish 
expression coming from a young miss of freshman vintage. She was more than 
just a line drawing as I recall, but she had the same determined glint in her 
eye that marks all Thurber women and the familiar vehemence typical of the 
New Yorker cartoonist’s style. She had been deep in conversation with 
her roommate when I stumbled upon them on the steps across from the gym. 
The one was speaking in a rather contained voice when of a sudden she 
burst forth with: “What if a man does live downstairs from us? He lives 
on the second floor, we live on the third, and he has absolutely nothing to 
do with us.” With due respect to the Dean’s Office, at first I thought that 
it was just a roommate reassuring her timid partner. As the thought turned 
over in my mind, however, I began to wonder if perhaps it was just the 
leader of the two cautioning the other that the guy downstairs was out of 
bounds, with all due respects to the Dean’s Office. At any rate the two sen­
tences—one interrogatary, the other complex—belong in the class of the re­
mark which Dorothy Parker’s friend overheard in a similar situation: “Mad, 
I don’t say. Queer, I grant you. Many’s the time I’ve seen her nude at the 
piano. ”
SYRIA
MOSQUEMcui ßeecjle. Concetti
Seven
Evenings
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 10“LA BOHEME” OPERA
Metropolitan Cast and Orchestra 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 16RACHMANINOFF
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 5MONTE CARLO BALLET
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16HELEN TRÄUBEL
World’s Foremost Soprano 
'Magnetizes Audience with her Voice”
SATURDAY, JANUARY 23RUSSIAN DON COSSACKS
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19CARMEN AMAYA
And Company of South American Dancers and 
Musicians
FRIDAY, MARCH 19LAWRENCE TIBBETT
The net proceeds from the Tibbett Concert will 
be donated to the Army Emergency Relief Fund
SPECIAL STUDENT RATE SALE OPENS 
SATURDAY. SEPTEMBER 12
Prices $5.00, $6.00, $7.50 and $8.50
To secure these rates secure an identification card from your school 
and present at box office at Mellor’s Music Store, 604 Wood Street 
between 9 and 5 daily (except 11:00 and 11:30 lunch-time).
Course tickets for 7 events, $7, $7.50, $9.50, $12.50, $15.50, $18.75 and 
$20.00 (plus tax) at May Beegle Offices, 551 Union Trust Building, 
and Mellor’s, 604 Wood Street. Early reservations advised.. AT- 
lantic 3051 and ATlantic 3783.
Consult box office for special combination rates on
TIBBETT
StUHfJiOtUI,
Ga+tcesdi,
By Visiting Orchestras
Pittsburgh Orchestra Association 
Auspices
Mrs. William Thaw, Jr., President 
May Beegle, Manager 
1942—Twenty-seventh Season—1943 
Four Concerts at Syria Mosque
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA
ORMANDY, Conductor
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 12BOSTON SYMPHONY
KOUSSEVITZKY, Conductor
SUNDAY, DECEMBER 13, AT 3 P. M.BOSTON SYMPHONY
KOUSSEVITZKY, Conductor
(Different Program) 
SATURDAY, MAY 1PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA
ORMANDY, Conductor
(REQUEST PROGRAM)
Special Student Rates for the 
Visiting Orchestras 
$1.20, $1.25, $2.20, $2.30, $3.10 and $4.40 
Course tickets for 4 events, $2, $2.50, 
$3.00, $3.50, $4.50, $6. $9 and $12.
both series.
^JoAAUt eMail
Jleciutei
Four Evenings at Carnegie 
Music Hall
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4FULTON LEWIS, JR.
America’s No. 1 Commentator on National 
Affairs.
Subject—“What’s Happening in Washington” 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17DOROTHY THOMPSON
Brilliant Journalist and Molder of Public 
Opinion.
Subject—“These Crucial Days” 
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 8PIERRE VAN PAASSEN
Celebrated Foreign Correspondent and Author
“Days of Our Years,” “The Time is Now” 
“That Day Alone”
Subject—“The War of the Hemispheres” 
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17MARGARET BOURKE-WHITE
One of World’s Greatest Photographers 
Recently returned from Russia 
Subject—“Eyes on Russia”—Illustrated.
All Lectures Will Be Followed by 
QUESTION & ANSWER Period
POPULAR PRICES: Series $6.00, $5.00, $4.00,
$3.00, $2.00. Tickets for Individual Events 75c 
to $1.50; except for Dorothy Thompson prices 
will be $1.00 to $2.00.
(Add 10% tax to all series and single prices.) 
Sale NOW at May Beegle Office, 551 Union 
Trust Building, ATlantic 3051. and Mellor’s, 
604 Wood Street, ATlai^ic 3783. ^
Off The Cuff
Since cuffs are on the priority list, 
we’ll just be patriotic and skimp 
on this one.
The Tishlarish family is losing 
no time these days in getting men 
folk for their women folk. Joanne’s 
cornering of a Theta Xi pin follow­
ed close on the heels of Olive’s re­
cent marriage to a W. & J. Phi Gam. 
Ah me—one more promising fresh­
man gone the way of all promising 
freshmen.
If the good book is right about 
faith being the evidence of things 
unseen we have plenty of faith in 
the recent word that Frank Morri­
son planted his pin on Dottie King 
before he left for the Air Corps this 
summer. Just where Dottie has 
transplanted the thing, we’ll never 
know.
Joan Nelson, Beta Pi dramat, re­
turned to school engaged to a Beta 
from Colorado. Just the intrigue of 
the Wild and Wooley.
Dave Phillips, a fixture around 
Woodlawn Pharmacy for 15 years 
has left us for the Army — fickle 
thing.
Carnegie’s pulchritude is at stake 
since Marion Davis, former Ohio 
Wesleyan beauty queen has trans­
ferred to Maggie Murph.
A fine state of affairs has arisen 
when a girl has to assure the Kappa 
Sigs that her intentions are honor­
able before they’ll risk a date with 
her.
Among the recent sporters of a 
ringed “third finger, left hand” are 
Marcia Weiner, senior'secretarial, 
who pulled a Benedict Arnold and 
married a Pitt man, and Helen Mc­
Millan who skipped off to Texas 
with her blushing groom, Johnny 
Radspinner.
ROTC Accessories 
Are Noiv Available
For the benefit of the freshmen 
and the new R. O. T. C. students, 
official R. O. T. C. ties and socks will 
be sold in Administration Hall. They 
will be sold, for a limited time, 
every day except Saturday, from 
11:00 to 1:30 P. M. The regular 
tan socks are priced at thirty-five 
cents per pair, or three pairs for one 
dollar. Black ties are being sold 
for fifty-five cents, or two for one 
dollar.
R. O. T. C. Enrollment 
Tops Former Record
Enrollment in the Tech R. O. T. 
C. units this semester exceeds all 
previous records by more than one 
hundred students. The freshman 
class of 413 includes 341 Engineering 
students, and 72 irregular students.”
The sophomore and upper-class 
enrollment is as follows: Sopho­
mores, Engineering unit, 171, Signal 
Corps, 36, a total of 207; Juniors, 
Engineering, 100, Signal Corps, 27, 
totaling 127; Seniors, Engineers, 56, 
Signal Corps, 17, a total of 73. Ac­
cording to these final figures, there 
are at the present time 820 Tech 
students enrolled in the R. O. T. C. 
units.
Enlisted Army Reservees 
Face Immediate Call
Col. F. T. Bass, Professor of Mil­
itary Science and Tactics, has re­
ceived a ruling in connection with 
the United States Enlisted Reserve 
Corps, to the effect that any stu­
dent who was accepted and enlisted 
in the U. S. Army Enlisted Reserve 
Corps, and subsequently clearly 
demonstrates lack of qualifications 
for officer’s training, or evidences 
characteristics unbecoming an of­
ficer, will be ordered immediately 
to active duty unless other causes 
justify his deferment.
Fre srhmas nmHrsamzi nmg i--e
BE UNOBTAINABLE! "
_en repair parts are getting as scarce 
as "A” grades. Pens that fail now may 
be out for th. duration. That’s why you 
are urged to-take this protective meas­
ure: flush your pen and fill it with new 
Parker Quink containing solv-x. A sen­
sational discovery of Parker scientists, 
Quink eliminates fears of pen failure 
due to faulty inks. Ends gumming and 
clogging. Cleans as it writes! Ask your 
dealer for amazing new Parker Quink 
with solv-x. Smooth-flowing, faster-dry­
ing—new Parker Quink gives added 
pleasure to writing.
NEW PARKER QUINK k th•
only ink containing solv-x. 
Eliminates the cause of most pen failures:
1. The TheCar in new Parker Quink 
dissolves sediment and gummy de­
posits left by inferior inks. Cleans 
your pen as it writes!
2. Quink with tolr-x prevents the 
rubber rot and corrosion caused by 
strongly acid writing fluids.
15t, 25t, and up. Made by the makers 
of famous Parker Pens. 7 COLORS: 
Black, Blue-black, Royal Blue, Green, 
liolet, Brown, Red. WASHABLE 
or PERMANENT.
ParkerQuink
lOPTMNS SOM X V .

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTÁNWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1942
Fred W. Shaffer, Assistant, Bureau of 
Placements, who has been called to ac­
tive duty as an Ensign in the United 
States Naval Reserve, and is now at the 
Navy Supply Corps School, Harvard 
School of Business Administration.
Drama Department 
Favored By Return 
Of Robert Gill, ’33
Of course, War is Hell and all 
that, but sometimes it can have 
pleasant consequences—for instance, 
the addition of Robert Gill to the 
faculty of Tech’s Drama School 
during the absence of Henry 
Boettcher, the head of the depart­
ment, who is serving as a Lieuten­
ant in the Air Corps.
Charming young Mr. Gill, who, 
incidentally, is to produce the first 
show of the Tech season, Helen 
Jerome’s adaptation of Pride and 
Prejudice, is quite enthusiastic 
about our Drama School. Not only 
did he receive his B. A. here in 1933, 
but he also produced the staging of 
Racine’s 17th century tragedy at 
Tech for his Master’s degree in 
Drama in 1939.
Following his graduation from 
Tech, Bob, as he is affectionately 
called by practically everyone, had 
a varied career in the Theater. He 
acted and directed with the Pitts­
burgh Playhouse in the early days 
when its productions were given 
during the summer at Arnold 
School. His next work was with 
George Sharpe’s melodramas at the 
Fort Pitt Hotel. Their production 
of The Drunkard ran for six 
months. For a while he was busy 
with announcing and production at 
radio stations WCAE and WCAU, 
as well as being stage director for 
the Pittsburgh Opera Society. Then, 
after being director of the Fox 
Chapel and Madison Ohio Play 
House, he was granted a Rockefeller 
Fellowship at the Cleveland Play­
house by the National Theater Con­
ference. His last assignment before 
coming to Tech was with the Erie 
Playhouse.
SHOE SHINE
*7edt Ranhe/i Bluofi
COURTEOUS, 
SANITARY SERVICE
BY A STAFF OF COMPETENT 
ATTENDANTS
422 South Craig Street
(/ Forbes) Pittsburgh, Pa.
Dramats Dramatize 
Jane Austen Novel
Helen Jerome’s dramatization of 
the Jane Austen novel “Pride and 
Prejudice” will be the year’s first 
production by the Drama Depart­
ment. Robert Gill, new member 
of the Department faculty, is direct­
ing the play, which will run from 
October 1 through October 8.
The story centers around Mrs. 
Bennet’s determination to get her 
three daughters married, in a day 
when marriage is the only career 
for a woman. Two of her daugh­
ters are content with their prospec­
tive spouses; but Elizabeth, the 
third, is too modern to marry the 
stuffy Mr. Collins, whom she dis­
likes, and too proud to marry the 
aristocratic Mr. Darcy, whom she 
loves. He, in turn, is prejudiced 
against anyone of a lower class than 
he. In the end, pride and prejudice 
meet halfway.
The tentative cast is as follow: 
Mr. Bennet—Robert Parks; Mrs. 
Bennet — Marianne Brown; Eliza­
beth—Septa Sanderson; Jane—Jac­
queline Vlascamp; Lydia — Eileen 
Letch worth; Mr. Darcy — James 
Schmitt; Mr. Bingley — Mitchell 
Agruss; Mr. Collins—Richard Rose; 
Lady Lucas—Natalie Rubin; Char­
lotte Lucas — Ruth Storm; Miss 
Bingley—Jean Graham; Mrs. Gar­
diner—Betty Jane Franklin.
The costuming, which will be in 
the Empire Period, is under the su­
pervision of Elizabeth Kimberly; 
Lloyd Weninger will do the sets.
tf-na+n jbad, 'Witlt Jlove
My Dear, You Had A Nice Vacation 
Now, How About Some Education
Dr. Edwin B. Fast, father of Doris Fast, freshman in the Drama De­
partment, answered his daughter’s Freshman Week correspondence in a 
most unusual way, catching the spirit of the seasonable advice, but also 
adding an original touch of his own. The following sonnets were written 
in reply to Doris’s first typical letter home about everything but her edu­
cation.
I
My dear, I so enjoyed your long epistle 
Telling about the Freshman Week events,
The twosomes at “The Skibo” and “The Thistle”
And other most delightful incidents.
You wrote of swimming parties, teas, and dances,
Of breakfasts at the dorm and Villa D’Esta;
You hinted of incipient romances 
With Reid and Bob and Bill and all the rest.
As I reread your interesting letter,
Filled with spaghetti, football and what-not,
1 wondered if, perhaps, I hadn’t better 
s-Remind you of the one thing you forgot:—
In all your comprehensive panorama 
Of college life, you failed to mention “Drama.”
II
It was the vogue in Athens, so they say,
For sages and their satellites to meet 
Quite frequently in some secluded street 
And there discuss the problems of the day.
Some few of these philosophers were grey 
And bearded men, the Seniors; at their feet 
The Juniors sat while striving to repeat 
The master’s words to pass the time away.
Sometimes a youth, finding the talk a bore,
Would speak with pseudo-wisdom out of turn;
The others called him “fool,” or Sophomore.
Recruits appeared, ignorant, taciturn,
Each one a shy and callow nincompoop,
And these became the Freshmen of the group.
Love,Daddy.
Only a Parker gives you: extra large ink capacity... original 
pocket-level Military Clip . . . and the Blue Diamond Life 
Contract Guarantee. Visit your pen dealer today!
Speed—more speed! And whether you face new duties at college, or 
are getting set for a job in the Service—a Parker Pen helps speed 
every writing assignment. Parker Pens contain no rubber sac... hold 
one-third more ink than the average of three well-known sac-type 
pens. The ease and balance of the Parker are a revelation. That satin- 
fcmooth tip of osmiridium won’t wear scratchy in a lifetime! Visit your 
pen counter. Try the amazing new Parker "SI” with the "51” Ink 
that dries as you write! See the famous Parker Vacumatic Pens, too.
+ GUARANTEED BY LIFE CONTRACT! Parker’s Blue Diamond on the pen it our contract 
unconditionally guaranteeing tervice lor the owner's lift, udthout cost other than 35t < harge fur 
rM}tta0p intMTWCfi and handlings if tx*n is not intentionally j -'maned and if returned comply9 • * m. nil />________ r_____tn ,
Beautiful ParkerVacu- 
matic with TelevUion 
Ink Supply."One- 
hand" patented filler. 
Junior and Sub-deb, 
$5; Major (illustrated) 
and Debutante, $8.75.
Parker
SINCE 1888 AMERICA'S FINEST 
PENS, PENCILS, SETS
to The PorkerV

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1942THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
Tech’s famed Kiltie Bund marching during one of last year’s football games.
^Jlte fCittieA. An& CaMtuuj,
Carnegie Tech Kiltie Band Again 
To Add Music And Color To Games
Fraternity 
Pledg es . . .
ALPHA TAU OMEGA 
R. Benninger P. Kekich
K. Downes J. MeneseeD. Edgecombe V. Moore
R. Hoffman A. Riddle
C. Hura P. Warren
BETA SIGMA RHO
G. Daniels I. Rivkin
L. Daniels A. Ross
H. Levinson D. Schacher
J. Levinthal J. Schlafman
J. Lowinger D. Shedroff
R. Marcus G. Sherman
A. Pollock L. Shutzer
BETA THETA PI 
M. Smith P. Griffen
W. Snow J. Harland
D. Vilsack D. Hurst
B. Wright L. Johnson
T. Bailey H. Palmer
B. Carpenter J. Patterson
B. Dismukes T. Wallover
DELTA TAU DELTA
J. Byers 
S. Duff 
J. Foley J. Kommer
B. McGill 
M. McGillicuddy
With another football season in 
view, we look forward to a success­
ful Tech eleven and the snappy ma­
neuvers of the Kiltie Band adding 
music and local color to the game. 
This year the Kilties will be on hand 
for all the home games and will also 
journey to Buffalo for one game. 
Additional men have been added to 
the Band roster from a large group 
of new men who were given try­
outs last Wednesday evening un­
der the direction of James H. Mor­
row, Band director, Dr. Vick 
O’Brien, head of the Music School, 
and L. H. Davidson, bagpipe di­
rector.
During the summer the Band of­
ficers have been very busy. The 
Kilt Room in the gymnasium build­
ing has been remodeled and reno­
vated and is now a spacious room 
with large lockers and excellent 
lighting equipment—truly a room 
of which Band members can be 
proud. Besides this accomplish­
ment, the uniforms, which had been 
sadly neglected and mistreated by 
Band men, have been completely 
cleaned and repaired.
This year the officers hope to 
make the Band a more efficient 
and successful organization than 
ever before. These men are: Chris 
Bauer, senior manager; Alois Hra- 
bak, assistant senior manager; 
Charles Jones, junior manager; Phil 
Britnell, historian and publicity 
manager; Russell Hunter, librarian; 
and Hugh Porter, secretary.
Helping the officers will be the 
men of Sully Clan. These men have
HOTEL WEBSTER 
HALL
Available For
PRIVATE PARTIES 
BANQUETS 
SWIMMING PARTIES
MAyflower 7700 
Fifth near Mellon Institute
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
Bamboo 
Gardens rr
3531 FORBES STREET
Delicious Chinese and American 
Food Is Served 
Special Meals At Moderate Prices 
Luncheon Served From 11-3 P. M. 
35c and up 
Dinner Served From 5-9 P. M.
55c and up 
Also Special Rates For Parties
J. Pettit 
N. Reid 
E. Sweeney 
B. Tidd 
P. Weber 
M. Wolff
been selected not only on the basis 
of outstanding musical ability, but 
also for their loyalty, attendance, 
interest, character, dependability, 
and the extent to which they have 
gone out of their way to help the 
Band.
The present members of Sully 
Clan are: Bob Altman, ’45; Russ 
Hunter, ’45; Gerald Heatter, ’45; 
Frank Maskiell, ’45 Hugh Porter, ’45; 
Dick Seckinger, ’45; Allen Yeakel, 
’45; Dave Gilman, ’44; Phil Britnell, 
’43; Bill Cay wood, ’43; Alois Hrabak, 
’43; Chris Bauer, ’43; Charles Jones, 
’44; Richard Schumann, ’44; and Al­
fred Sullivan, ’44.
All upperclassmen will miss 
watching our All-American Drum 
Major, Paul Wines, leading the Kil­
ties through their complicated ma­
neuvers at the gridiron contests. 
But although the Navy has taken 
Paul away from us, the Kiltie Band 
still possesses that Tech spirit. As 
before, they will be marching in 
perfect formation, horns shining in 
the Autumn sun, and their unique 
Scottish Kilts waving in the breeze.
To the incoming freshmen and 
other new students we say: “be 
proud of your Kiltie Band.” If you 
are musically inclined, ask to be­
come a member of this fine organi­
zation; if not, attend the concerts 
and take an active interest in your 
Kiltie Band.%
Avukah Hears Chapman
Professor Chapman will speak to 
the Avukah Society on “Students 
in the War Effort” when this year- 
old Jewish organization holds its 
first meeting of the year at the 
Union today at 3:30. Freshmen are 
cordially invited.
J. O’Brien 
DELTA UPSILON 
A. Nelson J. Gerum
R. Aten F. Kiper
H. Bahrenburg E. MeyerJ. Fulton H. Smith
KAPPA SIGMA
F. Dename J. Johnson
J. Faulke H. Lindsay
R. Franks W. McCann
W. I. Gray F. Owens
C. Groomes C. Peterson
W. Hall W. Sheppard
C. Hathaway D. StewartPI KAPPA ALPHA
E. Allen R. Jones
D. Armour R. Kelley
A. Campbell H. Lindahl
A. Cochran P. Moore
E. Conrow S. Pyzdrowski
R. Dumm H. Ranson
P. Evers I. Ross
P. Ewer R. RoyR. Graham J. Russell
J. Greene J. Sherwood
J. Gregorious M. Stewart
J. Hackler P. ThomasPHI KAPPA 
W. Ambrose D. Modie
J. Balash R. O’Neil
T. Burke J. Quinn
A. Cambal W. Ryan
W. Duronio J. Siegar
P. Gillespie J. Sherman
R. Heyl G. SivyJ. Kennedy J. Stakel
P. Malenock R. StockSIGMA ALPHA EPSILON 
D. Beam F. Kelsey
B. Bickerstaff G. KenellyD. Bingham B. King
B. Dairs B. Kleffman
C. Dunfee C. Palmer
J. Fleck P. Rose
A. Ganschow D. Schioman
B. Gillespie B. Shinkle
R. Greene SIGMA NU
D. Brewer K. Miller
A. Clark C. Monnenn
Rill Sltah&ifieGAe. 48
by Ed Goldstein
And these few precepts in thy 
memory see thou character, oh 
plebe: Give thy thoughts no tongue, 
nor any unportioned thought his 
act. Be thou familiar with the blond 
in the Commons, but by no means 
vulgar. Those pretty friends thou 
hast, and their adoption tried, hide 
’em away because they’re gone if 
a sophomore spots them. But do 
not dull thy palm with entertain­
ment at the Greeks, for they oft’ 
proclaim the beer at Kahn’s much 
better. Take each man’s censure, 
as thou will, oh plebe, but reserve 
thy judgment, if thou wil’st see 
thy next class. Costly thy habit as 
thy purse can buy, for of’t the 
rich and gaudy proclaims the jerk.
Neither a borrower nor a lender 
be, for oft the loan loses both itself 
and a few pounds of flesh. This 
above all, to Tech must thou be true; 
and it must follow, as the beer, the 
pretzel that thou will lose neither 
limb nor love.
S. Frangoules J. Polyzou
P. Kappetan H. Schiller
F. Leidiegh J. Woolett
B. Loughlin F. WrightTAU DELTA PHI 
J. Abelson W. Meyers
S. Belkin M. Miller
W. Cohn M. Mossmond
K. Dollinger A. Posternak
S. Gerhart A. SilverH. Kutner 
THETA XI 
V. Carlucci F. LeeC. Corey P. Penney, Jr.
G. Fish G. Rakall
R. Greene J. Rodrian
T. Hudson J. Sack
D. Kahl
FOR
Quality Cleaning
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
ALL
MAKES
$3.00 per 
Month
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
MODEL 
SERVICE
3919 Forbes Street 
SChenley 4313
Call and Delivery

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1942
Carnival Contest 
Plans Completed
Saturday afternoon of Fall Car­
nival there will be featured a 
Men’s Jalopy Race and also a Girl’s 
Novelty Skating Stakes. The place 
will be in front of the C. I. T. gym­
nasium. Chairman of the Commit­
tee is Student Council President, 
Jack Van Arsdell. Rules governing 
the entrance women’s eligibility and 
awards are given below.
1. One or more jalopies may be 
entered in the name of any campus 
organization, club, or department.
2. If there are five or more com­
peting fraternities and also five or 
more competing independent organ­
izations, two separate sweepstakes 
contests will be held.
3. The prizes will be attractive 
loving cups, one to be awarded to 
the best designed jalopy of the en­
tire field. The decisions of the judges 
will be final.
4. There will be a fee of $1.00 for 
each entry, payable to the sweep­
stakes chairman not later than Sep­
tember 17, 1942.
CONSTRUCTION:
1. The jalopy shall contain no 
materials which might instigate ten­
sion with the WPB.
2. The overall length of the ja­
lopy shall be no greater than 15 feet 
and no less than 2 feet.
3. The vehicle shall be support­
ed by three or more circular wheels, 
each of which shall have a diameter, 
including tire, not in excess of 16 
inches.
4. No pneumatic tires will be 
permitted.
5. No internal propulsion by 
steam, gasoline, oil, electricity, 
liquid air or any other mechanical 
means will be permitted.
6. Each jalopy shall carry a li­
cense pate (5”xl0”) designed in any 
combination of red, white, and blue, 
WITH A 25c WAR STAMP IN THE 
CENTER.
THE CONTEST:
1. The race will start on Frew 
Street by the Beanery. Each jalopy 
with driver mounted shall be push­
ed for a specified distance (to be 
announced later). The course will 
continue down Margaret Morrison 
Street, and ample stopping distance 
will be allowed beyond the finish 
line. No portion of the driver’s 
body or wearing apparel may touch 
the ground at any time or place 
along the course.
2. Any driver who in the opinion 
of the judges deliberately collides 
with another jalopy shall be dis­
qualified.
3. Races will be run in heats 
(the number of jalopies per heat to 
be determined by the sweepstakes 
chairman). Starting positions will 
be determined by chance drawings. 
GIRLS’ NOVELTY SKATING 
STAKES; RULES:
1. Three girls on skates will con­
stitute a team.
2. The course will be run be­
tween the front of Administration 
Hall and the bulletin board on the 
Cut.
3. A team shall race as follows:
Jßaak Qoad 9*t Practice ßeldi&tl
A strenuous practice session is the program for the Tartan grid club 
this fall. The above photos show two of the Skibos’ first eleven, Clare Ramsey, end; and Joe Pash, right halfback.
Football Situation Improving As 
Practice Goes Into Second Week
By Don French
With less than three weeks of 
practice left, the Tartan Gridders 
have been drilling doggedly for 
their encounter of the season on 
September 26. Confronting the 
Techites on this occasion will be the 
stalwart Geneva College Eleven.
In preparation for their initial en­
counter of the season, the Tartans, 
under the guidance of Coach Baker, 
have been found every evening dur­
ing the week down in the bowl do­
ing calisthentics for the first half 
hour; followed by scrimmages and 
the practicing of plays. In view of 
the fact that the Techites haven’t 
had the amount of practice that 
they had in previous years, the team 
seems to be shaping up much bet­
ter than anticipated.
Those that have been demon­
strating their ability on the field and 
seem to form the tentative lineup at 
the present time might be men­
tioned. Reid Byers and Bill Philip- 
chuk have been fighting it out for 
the fullback post, while another 
feud seems to be in progross over 
the left half position with the con­
tenders being Virgil Cantini and 
John McLaughlin. The other two 
posts in the backfield seem more
two girls (A and C) will be sta­
tioned at the end line in front of 
Administration Hall and one girl 
(B) will be stationed at the other 
line. Girl A will skate the length 
of the course carrying an egg on a 
standard tablespoon. After cross­
ing the end line she will give the 
spoon and egg to girl B, who in like 
manner will skate back and shift 
with C. Girl C completes the race. 
If at any time a girl drops the egg 
while between end lines, she shall 
return to her starting point and 
start over with another egg. Each 
team will furnish its own equip­
ment. Exchanges must be made 
behind the end lines or your team 
will be disqualified.
secure at the present, with Joe Pash 
at right half and Bob Weise at quar­
terback. In the line Dave Boyd and 
Marshall Smith seem to be fighting 
it out for right guard while Bill 
Purcell apparently has conquered 
all competition, for the present, at 
left guard. Another similar situa­
tion prevails with the tackle posi­
tions, with Don Burns and Willis 
Bell vieing for left tackle while 
Johnny Lindberg seems fairly se­
cure at right tackle. Chuck Jones 
is holding down the center position 
while the ends seem well taken care 
of in the hands of Clare Ramsay 
and Mannis Neumann.
Although the squad still needs a 
great deal of practice, the situation 
is considerably brighter this year 
due to the great amount of reserves. 
A large part of these reserves are 
composed of freshmen who, al­
though none will start on the 28th, 
may well be expected to be seen on 
ths gridiron before the season is 
over. Most promising of these 
plebes are Hall, Hurst, Brown, and 
Gaydos in the backfield, Carnahan, 
Nairn, and Rinanan at the end posi­
tions, Hoffman and Mikus at tackle, 
Ross and Baklary at guard, and 
Groomes and Boucek at center.
W. A. A. News
By Janet Chetlin
W. A. A. wishes to extend its wel­
come to the Freshman. By now we 
hope they have recovered from the 
strenuous activity of Freshman 
week and are ready to plunge into 
athletic activity. If the fine turnout 
at Sports Day last Saturday after­
noon is any indication of their en­
thusiasm, W. A. A. expects to be 
swamped by Freshman athletics. 
The W. A. A. Board hopes that they 
show the same enthusiasm in choos­
ing their own W. A. A. representa­
tives. Watch the bulletin boards 
for news of the election and of the 
box luncheon at which movies will 
be shown.
Intramural Touch To 
Begin Immediately
Hand in hand with the fall sea­
son comes Intramural touch foot­
ball. There has been only one ad­
dition to last year’s requirements 
which were a physical examination 
and having one’s name on the of­
ficial’s list. The new rule requires 
two weeks of practice for each man 
before he is eligible to play. How­
ever, there may be additional 
changes made as the Intramural 
Board has not yet convened.
All entries must be in by six 
o’clock Wednesday evening, Sep­
tember 9. The Schedule Commit­
tee will compile the schedules as 
soon as possible after the entries 
are in. Playing will probably have 
begun by the fourteenth, but at the 
very latest by the sixteenth. Games 
will be scheduled for every school 
day except Thursday and Saturday 
afternoons.
Cross Country
Coach Guy Halferty would like to 
meet all candidates for Cross Coun­
try team, upperclassmen and Fresh­
men, on Tuesday, September 15, at 
the Athletic Office, 102 Gymnasium 
at 4:30 P. M.
Notice
Anyone who wishes to work on 
the Tartan Sports Staff report to 
the Tartan office in the Carnegie 
Union at 4:30 on Friday afternoon. 
See Don Watkins for information.
WHY WALK A MILE
25 Feet to Barber Shop and Beauty Parlor. Courteous Service.
Campus Barber and Beauty Shop
Corner Margaret Morrison and Forbes Streets MAyflower 3921
OUR SPECIALTY IS 
CLEANING RAIN COATS
Keep, Vp /! Qood 
''Civilian
Outstanding Features
(1) Thorough Cleaning in Clear Sol­
vents.
(2) Odorless Dry Cleaning.
(3) Individual Attention to Each
Garment.
(4) Buttons Replaced Free of Charge.
(5) Loose Seams and Hems Repaired
at no extra cost.
(6) Your Garments are measured for
original size.
CAMPUS CLEANERS
4609 Forbes StreetMUseum 1288
WE CALL AND DELIVER
