THE TARTAN
Volume 85, Issue 24Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania29 April 1991
Shin wins top student government seat
By DAVID LADEK
Tartan News Editor
Vo ^ELECTIONS
The student body 
elected junior industrial 
managment major Hyun 
Shin as the next student government president 
last Tuesday and Wednesday.
Shin won the election by a majority of better 
than two to one over his nearest competitor.
“I’m very happy that [the election] is finally all 
over,” said Shin. “I am encouraged that the campus 
supported me so strongly. Achieving the goals I 
have set for myself is next, so that students see 
that they can depend on student government.
“I believe my work on Senate, especially in the 
Campus Affairs Committee, will help me to make 
this possible,” he said. “I believe that is an asset.” 
With over 1300 people voting, more than 21 
percent of those eligible, Shin received 520 votes. 
Sophomore political science/psychology major 
Natalie Gesmond, the runner-up, received 228
votes. Sophomore chemical engineering major 
Terrel Dean, junior IM major Michael Ewedosh, 
and sophomore mechanical engineering major 
Hugh Moore, the other candidates, received 166, 
137, and 124 votes, respectively.
“[Shin] has a specific agenda that he will pur­
sue next semester,” said Student Senate Chair 
Chris Neighbor, a fourth year architecture major. 
“He has a lot of good ideas, and I think he will 
pursue them actively next year.”
Accordingto Shin, “There are four major projects 
that I plan to focus on next year. I believe that 
these are all possible, and will help improve the 
quality of student life. The important thing is 
that students need to get involved.”
“Senate is just one of the resources that the 
president has to tap into,” said Shin. “Right now, 
I am also forming a Student Government 
president’s steering committee, to insure that the 
campus knows what’s happening and to be sure 
that we stay on track this year.”
Shin’s four ideas include a Student Mentor
program, which would pair incoming freshmen with 
sophomores or juniors from the same college with 
similar interests. “This is a way for students to 
become involved and active,” said Shin.
“Another of the ideas that I want to stress is the 
Faculty-Student Open House,” he said. “This is a 
program that would promote more interaction be­
tween students and faculty.”
Other programs Shin has on his agenda are the 
Departmental Information Week, in which students 
would have the chance to learn about different de­
partments, and the Monthly Discussion Forum, in 
which faculty, staff, and students would gather and 
discuss viewpoints on particular subjects in depth.
“The most important aspect of my term will be 
having an informed and involved student body,” said 
Shin. “Those two items are key for getting things 
done.”
Neighbor agreed. “I think that involvement of ev­
ery student on campus is important,” he said. “Sen­
ate needs to move in that direction — in this way, 
Senate can become more effective.”
lum e8V5,Iums24lu2IuC a8CI2rngIrCi MmrI82 
Shinwsh topwusdwsh euwgvnwshrwmwah ELis CT SIvsT
OodwsgN goaawu swhg pUugvhLField hockey moves to club sport status
By JASON MCDONALD
Tartan Contributing Editor
After two years as a club sport, Carnegie 
Mellon’s women’s soccer program will be 
competing on the varsity level this fall.
“We deserved it,” said head coach Julie 
Cunningham, who coached the club team 
this season. “If you look at it, soccer is 
pretty much the biggest nationally grow­
ing sport, especially for women. A lot of 
local teams are starting varsity programs, 
so it’s a good time for us to get into it.”
“I think it’s wonderful,” said sophomore 
Sonya Chmielnicki. “I’m excited to see it
“It's a good time for us to get into it”
— Julie Cunningham, 
women's soccer head coach
happen, and I’m looking forward to next 
season.”
The team will play a 14-game schedule 
against area teams such as Slippery Rock, 
Washington and Jefferson, and Indiana 
University of Pennsylvania. Major addi­
tions to the schedule include Swarthmore, 
a school that the team could not afford to
travel to when it was still a club; 
Waynesburg, which has a new varsity pro­
gram; and Case Western, because “although 
it’s UAA, it’s close,” according to 
Cunningham. The team will not begin full 
University Athletic Association play yet so 
it can get used to varsity competition.
Please see SOCCER, page 14
Christiano takes provost spot
lum e8V5,Iums24lu2IuC a8CI2rngIrCi MmrI82i'll huff, and I'll ouff....
DWS HuwgIdUs DvaIwmmw CiuommUM goPIodouw WS dURou Awpvs -K.oomwM Usn 
goPIodouw dUhI dURou tuwxx CUvdwm ghUsn os hIw luofws lUaf PouaI oH hIw 
ev cUdlnU eIv IoigwT yOw 1wuw gvhhvsx os hIw PouaI UHhwu nvsswuM Usn tmws 
5w2uvwg 6U HuwgIdUs WSbaIwdvghuL dURou_ 1Ug mwUsvsx os hIw 1UmmT ’mm oH 
hIw ginnws vh Righ aommUPgwnM Usn 3 xuUllwn 65w2uvwg_ go Iw 1oimnsNh HUmmMk 
gUvn Risvou 4W4 dURou ’mw, -xvmpvwM U ev cUd luohIwuT
By DAVID LADEK
Tartan News Editor
Paul P. Christiano, dean of 
the Carnegie Institute of Tech­
nology, will assume the num­
ber-two post at the University 
on July 1, President Robert 
Mehrabian announced last 
week.
Christiano will replace Pro­
vost Angel Jordan, who an­
nounced his retirement last 
year.
“I see our mission over the 
next few years as redefining the 
mission of the university,” said 
Christiano. “We want to em­
brace the local communities, 
and feel involved with the needs
of society.”
Morgan said, “I am delighted 
with the choice of [Christiano], 
as is, I believe, most of the 
committee,” said Engineering 
and Public Policy Department 
Head Granger- Morgan, who 
lead the search committee.
“Christiano brings with him 
outstanding leadership skills, 
a thorough knowledge of the 
university, and the respect of 
students, faculty, staff, alumni, 
and trustees to this position,” 
said Mehrabian. “I lookforward 
to working with him as a part­
ner in meeting the challenges 
facing our university.”
Jordan, who plans to return 
to teaching as a professor and
Urvv tsmvV4V8g2Is,y Pugv ab2r,IruC8 
zw1 WUuswxvw Dwmmos Puopogh 
UPPovshww eUim eT WIuvghvUsoT
researcher in the Electrical 
Engineering and Computer 
Science departments, said, “I
am very pleased with the ap­
pointment of [Christiano]. I 
have known him for many years 
— in fact, he was the associate 
dean when I was dean of CIT. 
He is a laid back man with a 
good sense of humor, he knows 
the university, and he’s an ex­
cellent researcher.
“An important fact is that 
[Christiano] is committed to 
undergraduate education,” con­
tinued Jordan. “He is concerned 
with the quality of life for stu­
dents, as well as [for] faculty 
and staff.”
“I’m obviously happy about 
the whole thing,” said Chris­
tiano. “I am very lucky to get 
Please see PROVOST, page 7
WUuswxvw Dwmmos uUsfg j9hIM jBhI vs U.S. News giupwL
By LAURIE WILKISON
Tartan Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon ranks 10th in engi­
neering and 13th in business, according 
to a U.S. News and World Report survey 
of the top graduate schools released in its 
April 29 issue.
“The rankings of GSIA and the gradu­
ate program in CIT simply verify what 
we have known all along: Carnegie 
Mellon’s graduate programs in business 
and engineering are among the finest in 
the nation,” said President Robert
Mehrabian.
The U.S. News survey also ranked the 
top five business schools based on indi­
vidual departments. CMU ranked sec­
ond in the nation for Production/Opera­
tions Management and its department 
of Business Information Systems tied for 
second. On the engineering side of the 
individual department rankings, CMU 
was fourth in the nation for its graduate 
program in computer engineering.
Tom Weber, a second year GSIA stu­
dent, said these rankings are somewhat 
important to students because the stu­
“[The rankings verify] Carnegie Mellon's 
graduate programs ... are among the best."
— Robert Mehrabian, 
president
CMU ninth this year in its list of top 
graduate business schools. This “sort of 
shows the subjectivity,” said Weber.
rhey/ 
tar- i 
But
dents feel employers put a lot of empha­
sis on them. “It’s just one of the many 
standards by which you want to judge 
yourself ... sort of a benchmark to see 
where we fit in,” said Weber.
Some students and faculty consider 
making the top 10 an important step, 
because these are often the schools both 
employers and prospective students are 
interested in. Business Week ranked
good we are,” said Mehrabian. “They, 
give us some sense of where we sta: 
based on the magazine’s criteria, J3—
more importantly, they tell us weVbuild-
ing from a position of strength as we 
strive for excellence in all of our gradu­
ate programs.”
Bob Buck, a graduate student in 
MEMS, pointed out that people tend to 
Please see SURVEY, page 4
Inside
Classifieds.............................15
Comics...................................L6
Diversions...........................Lll
Features................................LI
Forum......................................8
Sports....................................13
University Calendar.......LI 6
Vox Populi...........................LI 6
• Other election coverage.
See page 7.
•Rao, Shin address campus.
See page 10.
•Tennis plays final match of 
the season.
See page 13.
• Javi runs out of words.
See page L5.
This is The Tartan’s last issue 
of the year. Next week we will 
be publishing our parody 
issue, The Natrat. Look for us 
again in the fall. Good luck 
and have a great summer!
©1991 Warner Brothers, inc.
Golvs Eoon VAwpvs Woghswu0 uvnwg 
U1UL vs hIw sw1 OUuswu CuogTK 
wPva adventure Robin Hood: 
Prince of Theives.
zopwdlwu hwssvg aoiuh dopw 
dUufg ghUuh oH •svpwugvhL Wwshwu
By KATHRYN COONROD
Special to The Tartan
The first phase of the construc­
tion of the planned University 
Center complex will begin in No­
vember.
The tennis courts will be re­
installed at a slightly different 
angle from their current north- 
south orientation in order to con­
form to University Center plans.
According to Vice President for 
Planningand Business Affairs Pat 
Keating this means “the walk­
way in front of the new dorm will 
be extended” past Skibo.
“Neither the entrance to Marg­
aret Morrison closest to Skibo nor 
the outside entranceways to the 
Kiltie Court will be affected by 
the construction,” said Keating.
This beginning phase is ex­
pected to cost about $1.7 million.
The movement of the tennis 
courts is expected to be completed 
in April of1992. Fund-raising for 
the next phase of construction, 
which begins with the razing of 
Skibo, has notyet been completed.
Accordingto Keating, “The demo­
lition of Skibo will be in the sum­
mer of 1992 at the earliest.”
The design for the University 
Center has notyet been finalized. 
Keating said the plans for the 
tennis court area will be com­
pleted during the summer, while 
the details for the rest of the Cen­
ter will be worked out by Decem­
ber.
“I’m pleased with the progress 
of the University Center so far.” 
said Keating. “The design is com­
ing along nicely.”

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 29 April 1991
.E3S F•S. 3zh 9
eUuhL uwRwahg uwgvxsUhvos
MOSCOW (AP) — The Com­
munist Party Central Committee 
rejected any question of Presi­
dent Mikhail S. Gorbachev’s res­
ignation as party chief by an 
overwhelming vote, on the rec­
ommendation of the top leader­
ship in the Politburo, the Interfax 
news agency said.
As reported, delegates to a party 
meeting said Gorbachev had re­
sponded to stinging attacks by 
hard-liners at a Communist Party 
leadership meeting by saying he 
would quit as party chief if they 
couldmuster a no-confidence vote.
Gorbachev’s offer to resign came 
after Russian Communist Party 
chief Ivan Polozkov accused 
Gorbachev of “abandoning the 
party,” according to one Central
Committee member interviewed 
during a break from the closed- 
door meeting.
In a tactic he has used before, 
Gorbachev made what one del­
egate called a “half-serious” sug­
gestion that he would resign if the 
Central Committee voted that 
way.
Friday’s criticism of Gorba­
chev’s party leadership came the 
day after Gorbachev disclosed a 
new agreement with nine of the 
15 republic leaders, including 
Russian President Boris Yeltsin, 
in which he promised new legisla­
tive and presidential elections.
Gorbachev had used that deal 
to fend off a challenge from the 
hard-liners in the first day of the 
two-day, closed-door meeting of
top Communists in the Kremlin. 
His victory then made it unlikely 
that the hard-liners could muster 
a serious challenge.
If Gorbachev gave up the Com­
munist Party leadership, he would 
remain president of the country.
As reported, Gorbachev’s agree­
ment with the nine republic lead­
ers calls for an end to strikes, the 
rapid signing of a Gorbachev-ad­
vocated treaty on preserving the 
union, a new constitution within 
six months, and new elections 
thereafter. It is signed only by the 
nine republics that want to re­
main in the Soviet Union.
The agreement did not say if 
the presidency would be filled in a 
general election, leaving that for 
the new constitution.
3uUY PuwPUuwg Hou sw1 nwdoauUaL
BAGHDAD (AP) — Iraq is prepared to “open a 
new page” in its relations with other countries, but 
rejects interference in its internal affairs such as 
the U.S. presence in northern Iraq, Prime Minister 
Saadoun Hammadi said.
Hammadi said a U.S. order for Iraqi authorities 
to vacate the zone where Kurdish refugee camps 
are being set up constituted interference and that 
negotiations were under way to settle the matter.
In a wide-ranging news conference, the prime 
minister refused to discuss the Persian Gulf war, 
other than to say it was obvious Iraq was overpow­
ered militarily.
Prime Minister Hammadi said Iraq would take
steps toward democracy, although “this process 
should take place gradually, practically,” and might 
not meet the expectations of other countries.
Iraqi President Saddam Hussein has promised 
greater freedom for his people, and Kurdish leader 
Jalal Talabani said yesterday that Saddam had 
agreed to.greater democracy as part of the tentative 
autonomy agreement reached with the Kurds.
Hammadi insisted that Iraq has no biological or 
nuclear weapons and said the United States was 
trying to delay lifting of United Nations economic 
sanctions by implying Baghdad had lied in a memo­
randum on weaponry that was required by Security 
Council resolutions.
’ndvsvghuUhvos lUug FUPUswgw 
Hvudg Huod aosghuiahvos PuoRwahg
WASHINGTON (DJ) — In a major slap at 
Japan’s trade practices, the Bush Administra­
tion said the U.S. intends to bar Japanese firms 
from federally funded construction projects in the 
U.S.
U.S. Trade Representative Carla Hills also 
took other steps to move against unfair trade 
practices in protection of intellectual property in 
India, China, and Thailand.
Hills said in a statement that the action against 
Japan is in response to the Japanese government’s 
discrimination against U.S. and other foreign 
firms seeking to bid on public projects in Japan. 
It will be taken under Section 301 of the 1974 
Trade Act, following a 30-day public comment 
period.
“Japan discriminates against U.S. companies 
wishing to bid on Japanese projects,” Hills said, 
“resulting in the loss of a potential market of 
billions of dollars.
“We are prepared to bar Japanese contractors 
from our public works projects until Japanmakes 
significant improvements in its procurement prac­
tices,” Hills said.
The dispute dates back to November 1989, 
when the U.S. Trade Representative concluded 
that Japanese construction practices were an 
unreasonable restriction on U.S. trade.
No retaliation was imposed at that time be­
cause U.S. negotiators had made some limited 
progress with the Japanese on certain technical 
issues and because they hoped to resolve remain­
ing problems during talks to be held in the near 
future.
“Those talks have failed to result in a satisfac­
tory solution,” Hills said.
The action would bar Japanese contractors or 
subcontractors from federal or federally funded 
building and public works procurements in the 
U.S. by the Departments of Energy, Transporta­
tion and Defense, as well as other departments in 
the federal government.
Appropriations for these projects amounted to 
more than $21 billion in fiscal 1991.
Hills said that the proposed sanctions are con­
sistent with the obligations of the U.S. under the 
General Agreements on Tariffs and Trade.
With regard to the intellectual property ac­
tions, the U.S. identified India, China and Thai­
land as priority countries whose “problems with 
intellectual property protection are particularly 
acute.”
“Although we have made progress with other 
countries on intellectual property and govern­
ment procurement issues,” Hills said, “today’s 
announcement underscored the persistent na­
ture of problems with those countries identified.”
“We hope to sit down soon with the govern­
ments of India, the People’s Republic of China, 
and Thailand to make quick progress on these 
important issues,” Hills said
Hills also placed or retained three entities on 
the Special 301 Priority Watch List—Brazil, the 
European Community, and Australia. These are 
areas where the U.S. continues to face serious 
problems with intellectual property protection or 
market access.
Among those practices given particular atten­
tion were the restrictive quotas on television 
programs maintained by certain EC member 
states, in accordance with a community-wide 
directive.
Congress considers gas taxLabor committee approves family leave bill
WASHINGTON (DJ)—Highergaso- 
line taxes are back on the table in 
Congress, six months after they were 
raised as part of last year’s deficit- 
reduction accord.
House Speaker Thomas Foley (D- 
Wash.) and Rep. Robert Roe (D-New 
Jersey), chairman of the House Public 
Works and Transportation Commit­
tee, are pushing a five-cent-a-gallon 
increase to help finance a $153.5 bil­
lion, five-year highway and mass-tran- 
sit program. The higher levy, which 
would raise an additional $6.6 billion a 
year, would bring the federal gasoline 
tax to 19 cents a gallon.
Meanwhile, the House’s chief 
taxwriter, Ways and Means Commit­
tee Chairman Dan Rostenkowski (D- 
111.), said this week he favors doubling 
that proposed increase to 10 cents, with 
the extra nickel per gallon devoted to 
cutting the deficit. “My sense of alarm 
went up when I read that,” said Ken­
neth Simonson of the American Truck­
ing Associations, which opposes higher 
gas taxes.
After last fall’s increase, another tax 
rise was thought to be unlikely this 
year. Though Democratic congressional 
leaders are still testing support for the 
idea, calls for higher taxes grew louder 
during the Persian Gulf war. Support­
ers argue that higher prices would re­
duce consumption, and with it the 
nation’s reliance on foreign oil. But any 
increase invites a fight with President 
Bush, who proposes a $103 billion high­
way program without new tax in­
creases.
Rep. Foley has said that “the single 
most disappointing” aspect of last year’s 
budget pact with Bush was the deci­
sion to limit the gas-tax hike to five 
cents a gallon. “It has wholly beneficial 
consequences,” he says of a higher levy, 
citing energy conservation, improved 
air quality and deficit reduction.
WASHINGTON (DJ) — The Senate 
Labor Committee approved a bill to re­
quire employers to offer workers as much 
as 12 weeks of unpaid leave annually to 
care for newborn or adopted children or 
sick relatives.
The vote was 12-5, with all 10 commit­
tee Democrats, James Jeffords (R-Vt.), 
and Dan Coats (R-Ind.) in favor of the 
bill.
The legislation, high on the priority 
list of women’s groups and labor unions, 
is likely headed for another confronta­
tion with the White House, which op­
poses it. Last year, both the Senate and 
House approved a similar bill, but the 
House failed by 53 votes to override a 
veto by President Bush, who claims it is 
a costly mandate for employers.
Senate proponents believe they are 
about two votes short of override strength. 
Some House lawmakers are optimistic 
that they have gained support for the 
legislation. “I’m sure we’re closer” to be­
ing able to overcome a veto than last
year, said Rep. Marge Roukema (R-New 
Jersey), who favors the parental-leave 
legislation.
“A lot of people are looking to vote for 
it this time who did not last time,” 
Roukema said. She said passage of the 
bill by Congress “will put the president 
in a very untenable position.”
The House Labor Committee approved 
the measure last month by voice vote.
Employer groups opposing the bill pre­
dict they will be able to fend off any veto 
override in the House, though they think 
it will be tougher in the Senate, which 
may face its first roll-call vote on the 
issue.
Prospects for the bill being enacted 
into law are “slim to none,” said Mary 
Tavenner, a lobbyist for the National 
Association of Wholesaler-Distributers. 
She is a founder of the Concerned Alli­
ance of Responsible Employers, a group 
formed to battle federal benefit man­
dates.
Under the Senate legislation, as under
the House version, employers would be 
required to offer as much as 12 weeks of 
unpaid leave to a parent of a newborn or 
newly adopted child, to help an employee 
care for a child, spouse or parent who is 
ill, or because of the worker’s own illness. 
The employer could offset the unpaid 
leave with any paid vacation, personal or 
family leave, or the worker could elect to 
make that substitution. In the House 
bill, certain highly-paid key employees 
would be exempt from the requirement; 
the Senate measure doesn’t contain the 
key-employee provision.
In both versions, employers with fewer 
than 50 employees would be exempt from 
the family-leave requirement.
Asp, U2rs1, a8g2Is,y 
Dow Jones, Inc.
Suy8gI ny 
Rick Quinn
WUuswxvw Dwmmos 
.uvUhImos j99j
9uy Oo ERREo R uT7T
1/4 mile swim (500 yards) • 1 O mile bike (helmets required) • 5K run (3.1 mile)
zw1 .Ivg YwUu:
lbs 1r2,Y E’’ 811fVu7.g, u..vrVuIr8C, prvv ns uVVs.Ism 
Prizes and awards
First, second and (Kird place awards to Carnegie Mellon andvnon Carnegie Mellon applicants in each category:
• Solo Male• Solo Female• Best Male Team• Best Female Team ' • Best Coed Team• Best Master - 40+• Best 14 and under - Male• Best 14 and under - Female
Entry Fee
CMU $8 individual I >20 team Non CMU $15 individual $35 team
Information and applications
Open to all Carnegie Mellon students, faculty, staff, and alumni. The first 100 off-campus also be accepted.(ications >appi
Applications are available at the Skibo information desk, the IM office, the Athletic department, Club One, Jewish Community Cennter and various Squirrel Hill and Shadyside stores. Or call the IM office at 268-2214.
Entries due
All enteries are due April 29th to the IM office, Skibo information desk or the Athletic Department, 5000 Forbes Avenue, Pittsburqh, PA 15213-3890.
$500 in door prizes
Sponsored by Student Activities Fee, Intramural Department and Athletics

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 29 April 19913
SimmvpUs nvgaiggwg PmUsg Hou Hihiuw
By JASON McDONALD
Tartan Contributing Editor
Dr. Robert Sullivan, dean of GSIA as of 
July 1,1991, was in Pittsburgh last week­
end to meet with administration and 
alumni. On Monday morning, Sullivan 
met with the press at the Hilton hotel to 
discuss his upcoming job.
Robert Sullivan comes to Carnegie 
Mellon at what he sees as “a crossroads” 
in the University and GSIA’s histories. 
“Both have wonderful opportunities right 
now; in fact, what happens with the 
GSIA to a great extent will also have a 
tremendous impact on CMU and vice 
veria,” Sullivan said. “They’re part and 
parcel of the same system, and so there 
really could not be a better time for a 
dean to come into GSIA while having a 
new president of Carnegie Mellon.”
Sullivan comes to CMU from the Uni­
versity of Texas at Austin where, accord­
ing to Sullivan, “many people ... have an 
affiliation with CMU and with GSIA 
right from its foundation, so I’ve had a 
perspective on both CMU and GSIA not 
for one month or two months, but it 
really goes back a number of years.”
Sullivan also sees the chance to work 
with President Mehrabian as a positive 
aspect of the job. “One of the attractions 
for me, in fact, was the aspirations and 
the intent of Robert Mehrabian. We see 
eye to eye on many, many things,” he 
said. “It was almost like my echo, or 
maybe I was his echo, when we would 
talk about integrating GSIA to a greater
extent into the other components and 
taking advantage of other components 
within the University....”
Elaborating on the need for greater 
cooperation between GSIA and the rest 
of the University, Sullivan said that “the 
interesting problems that are facing or­
ganizations today... don’t easily fall into 
a business school.
“They’ll be issues that are impacted by 
natural science and computer science, 
and issues that are affected by engineer­
ing.
“Carnegie Mellon has, in certain ar­
eas, almost unsurpassed qualities in 
these other disciplines. We also have 
unsurpassed qualities and characteris­
tics within the GSIA. What we’d like to 
do is find mechanisms to form coopera­
tive arrangements and partnerships so 
that we can approach these interesting 
problems in a fashion that no one else in 
the world can.”
Another goal of Sullivan’s is to bring 
back the spirit of innovation and creativ­
ity that existed in past. “In many situa­
tions, it’s industry that’s playing the 
lead role and we within academia need to 
find out not only how do we catch up, but 
how do we get back into the role that we 
need to be playing, which is the leader­
ship role working with industry,” he said.
“But in order to do that, we certainly 
need to be attuned as to what the cutting 
edge is in terms of the industry perspec­
tive. We haven’t been very good listeners 
and articulators and communicators with 
industry, and that’s going to have to
"What we’d like to do is find mechanisms to 
form cooperative arrangements and partner­
ships [between GSIA and other CMU col­
leges] so that we can approach these inter­
esting problems in a fashion that no one else 
in the world can.”
— Robert Sullivan, 
newly appointed dean of GSIA
change.”
Looking down the road, Sullivan sees 
the nature of business education chang­
ing. “It will be be more of a notion of life­
long learning, that when somebody gets 
a degree from an institution they 
shouldn’t just walk away with a degree 
and we forget them,” he said, “and in 
fact, they are forever part of our commu­
nity, and we have to have some responsi­
bility for these individuals.
“The value of the education that they 
receive diminishes very rapidly overtime. 
How are they going to be kept on the 
cutting edge three or five years down the 
road? Almost like equipment, their 
knowledge is becoming obsolete much 
more rapidly than it ever has before. 
How do you keep people current? That 
will be very important to us.”
Toward that goal of life-long learning,
Sullivan has tried to “send a message” to 
alumni. “I wanted them to know that 
they don’t leave our family, and that we 
have a committment to them beyond 
[graduation],” he said. “I told them also 
that I don’t want them to wait a year or 
five years to come back again, that I 
want their advice and their counsel and 
their guidance whenever they have some­
thing they want to communicate.” 
Sullivan didn’t have much to say spe­
cifically about Carnegie Mellon 
fundraising when the subject was men­
tioned, but offered his general view on 
the subject. “What I’d like to do is to view 
our program and the University as a 
whole as an investment,” he said. “If I go 
to industry or to an individual and say 
we’d like support for something, I’d feel 
even better about that if I could go to 
those individuals and say ‘I really have
an opportunity for you because if you do 
this, there will be some other benefit 
that will come back.’ If we’re not able to 
do that in the broader sense, then we 
need to revisit either how we’re commu­
nicating or what it is that we’re doing.” 
Student involvement is another prior- 
ity for Sullivan. “What we’ll have to de- ; 
sign here is a mechanism by which the ; 
students become an integral part in both 
assessing and helping to implement this 
entire process,” he said. “We need to . 
know more about that, and I need to . 
know more about that, but we need to 
have student involvement both in pro­
viding feedback and also in coming up 
with improvements in curricula and de­
signing curricula.”
Examples of student involvement pro­
grams that Sullivan had at Texas-Aus­
tin include student subcommittees, 
mentorship of first-year students by sec- • 
ond-year students, and student-orga- 
nized “firesides” where members of the 
faculty host student receptions, some­
times in their homes, as an informal 
means of “getting faculty open to the 
students.”
In closing, Sullivan came back to the 
idea of opportunity. “There is an oppor­
tunity that is almost an unprecedented 
opportunity,” said Sullivan, “and if we’re 
clever and if we’re also lucky, and if 
things work out appropriately, I think 
three years or five years down the road, 
folks will reflect back on this and say this 
was a milestone in the history of this 
university.”
Nxww Cu7s, N8gC,bsvv u, 
SgVs .281s,,82 CskI ysu2
David Hounshell has accepted the position of Luce Professor of 
Technology and Social Change at Carnegie Mellon. The profes­
sorship will link technological studies in various parts of the 
University and is made possible through a $550,000 grant from 
the Luce Foundation. According to Joel Tarr, associate dean in 
the College of Humanities and Social Sciences, “The Luce Profes­
sor will play an important role in the new interdisciplinary PhD 
program in science and technology that is being developed.”
Hounshell is currently a professor of history at the University 
of Delaware and is “one of the most prominent historians of 
technology in the country,” said Tarr. His appointment begins 
next fall in the Departments of History and SDS.
w8drsI sCdr28C7sCIuvr,I,o 1rv7 
7u5s2, ,.su5 8C lbg2,muy
“Crossing the Threshold: The Awakening of Environmental 
Consciousness in the Soviet Union” will bring Soviet environ­
mental specialists and film makers to campus Thursday at 7:30 
pm in the Skibo Ballroom. The symposium will present films and 
first-hand accounts of the threatening environmental conditions 
in the USSR. The screening of films will be followed by a panel
Carnegie Mellon in Brief
discussion with Soviet and American participants.
In addition, “Chernobyl Five Years Later: The Aftermath of 
Environmental Devastation” will be presented Friday at noon in 
the Wherrett room by the Soup and Substance series. A panel 
will discuss opportunities and constraints in the Soviet Union for 
addressing environmental disasters such as the Chernobyl crisis.
wIgmsCI i28g. i8s, iv8nuv
The Carnegie Mellon International Relations Organization is a 
new group on campus which has been formed to promote interna­
tional awareness among students. It is led by Rainer Ribback, 
the organization’s president and founder.
“We hope to sponsor programs related to international affairs
— as well as help with activities like the International Festival
— that will increase international awareness around the cam­
pus,” said Ribback. “We would also like to sponsor field trips to 
the United Nations and Washington, D.C., as well as to interna­
tional relations conferences sponsored by other universities.”
Advisors include history professor Peter Stearns, German 
professor Willard Daetsch, and International Education Director 
Larry Thacker. The first meeting is tomorrow at 6:30 pm in DH 
1112.
L Pbr ’ upu2m, ,Vb8vu2,br.
The 1991 Kent D. Shaffer Memorial Scholarship, awarded by 
the Kappa Chapter of Alpha Phi Omega, will be awarded Thurs­
day night to senior chemical engineering major Austin L. Belton.
A brother of Beta Theta Pi, Austin has contributed significant 
service to society through his work as a volunteer at Shadyside 
Hospital and as a resident assistant. In addition, he has played 
varsity football for CMU and plans to start medical school this 
fall. Austin will receive a check for $500 from A Phi O.
Lvg7Cr 2sIg2C I8 G2s,is ,Iuis 
rC .s21827uCVs 81 Stevie
Stevie, Hugh Whitemore’s play about English poet Stevie 
Smith, will play in Kresge Theatre May 21-25 at 8 pm, with a 
Saturday matinee at 2 pm. There will be a reception after each 
performance.
The play returns three drama alumni to the Kresge stage. 
Emmy nominee Barbara Bosson (A ’70), of Hill Street Blues, will 
play the title role. Also appearing will be Joan Darling (A ’57) 
and Jeffrey Chandler (A ’67), both seasoned actors.
Compiled by 
SAMANTHA KOSSMAN
Correction ...
The story “Comedian Marty Putz meets his match,” [4/22], 
was incorrect. Marty Putz was funded by SDC.
In the preview and review of d’Artegan: a requiem, [4/15, 4/ 
22], Michael Walker was incorrectly identified. He is a sopho­
more CS major.
’4ev WosxuUhimUhwg 
vhg sw1 luohIwug:
Walk-in Tutoring
Sunday through Thursday 8-11 pm
WeH 5403 
WeH 5427
FosUhIos WIwLwu 
Usn
CuvUs SIwpwmwsfo
Calculus 
Physics 
Chemistry 
Academic Writing 
Intro to Computing WeH 5427
WeH 5205 
WeH 5205
The Right Place To Turn
Sponsored by Counseling and Student Development Center, Division 
of Student Affairs

---------------------------------------------------

4The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 29 April 1991
U.S. News uUsfg WD• 
vs hoP 25 xuUn gaIoomg
SURVEY, from page 1
mold their opinion of the survey itself around their 
own particular ranking. “But in all honesty,” said 
Buck, “it does affect people, employers, or people 
who are considering the school.” Concerning CMLFs 
ranking, Buck said, “I think it’s pretty darn good. 
I’m not surprised.”
“We think GSIA is an outstanding school, and 
we’re pleased to be considered among the top 
schools,” said Acting Dean of GSIA Dennis Epple. 
“[These rankings] are one of the sources of informa­
tion people look at, but on the other hand, there are 
lots of other sources — so we shouldn’t overstate 
their importance either.”
Paul Christiano, dean of CIT, agreed that the 
rankings are “not something to run your life or your 
institution by.” Christiano believes that the sur­
veys can’t ever be comprehensive because they are 
comparing different factors that are affected by 
how visible a place is, the nature of the questions, 
and the rank of different fields and departments 
within each institution.
“I do think [the rankings] are helpful,” said 
Christiano, “and we might rank about where we are 
for an institution our size. I don’t think anyone
should use them to make decisions. They ought to 
look at an institution in terms of how it suits their 
own needs and how it affects their intellectual 
pur suits... [The rankings] just give us a feel for 
where we are in peoples’ minds.”
According to the article, the business schools 
were ranked using two reputational surveys and 
statistical data measuring student selectivity, place­
ment success and graduation rate. The rankings of 
the engineering schools were also based on two 
reputational surveys, and also included statistical 
data measuring student selectivity, faculty re­
sources, and research activity.
Other schools that did well in the ranking were 
MIT, which was the top-ranked engineering school, 
followed by Stanford University and the University 
of Illinois at Urbana.
Harvard University was ranked number one for 
graduate business schools, followed by Stanford 
and the University of Pennsylvania (Wharton).
In other graduate fields, Harvard University was 
ranked the number-one medical school, followed by 
Johns Hopkins and Duke. Harvard took a second 
ranking to Y ale in the list of top 25 law schools, with 
University of Chicago in third place.
Crime and Incident Report
4/19 MEDICAL,
4:43 pm. An elderly 
woman fell outside 
Skibo Hall and in­
jured her hip. Medics 
were notified.
4/19 DISORDERLY CON­
DUCT, 11:11 pm. CMU police 
observed three individuals fight­
ing on the Carnival Midway. The 
individuals were given state cita­
tions and asked to leave the Mid­
way and not return.
4/20 BLOCKING OF FIRE 
LANE, 12:21 am. Three cars were 
towed from a fraternity driveway 
for blocking the fire lane.
4/20 MEDICAL ESCORT, 
8:58 am. A Pi Kappa Alpha buggy 
pusher injured a finger and was 
.transported to Presbyterian Hos­
pital.
4/20 OUTSIDE ALCOHOL,
10:02 am. Campus Police noticed 
several people drinking beer on 
the Sigma Alpha Epsilon patio. 
The house was issued an internal 
citation.
4/20 OUTSIDE ALCOHOL, 
10:20 am. Alcohol was found on 
the patio of the Delta Upsilon 
house. The house was issued an 
internal citation.
4/20 MEDICAL, 4:30 pm. A 5- 
year-old boy visiting Carnival 
began choking on a piece of candy. 
He and his aunt were transported 
to Children’s Hospital.
4/20 OUTSIDE ALCOHOL, 
5:52 pm. Campus Police found 
several Sigma Alpha Epsilon 
alumni drinking beer on the SAE 
patio. The house was issued a 
citation.
4/20 OUTSIDE ALCOHOL, 
5:58 pm. Pi Kappa Alpha alumni 
were drinking beer on the house 
porch. The house was issued an 
internal citation.
4/20 OUTSIDE ALCOHOL, 
6:10 pm. Campus Police found 
several alumni drinking beer on 
the Delta Upsilon patio. The house 
was issued a citation.
4/20 OUTSIDE ALCOHOL, 
6:18 pm. Campus Police found 
several people drinking beer on 
the Beta Theta Pi patio. The house 
was issued a citation.
4/20 HAZING, 7:57 pm. A 
Sigma Nu alumnus was observed 
hanging off of a telephone pole 
across the street from his house. 
The house was warned not to haze 
in the future or else citations 
would be given out.
4/20 DISORDERLY CON­
DUCT, 8:53 pm. CMU police ob­
served two individuals fighting 
at the entrance to Carnival. The 
individuals were identified as a 
CMU student and a local high 
school student. They were issued 
citations and asked to leave the 
Carnival site.
4/20 ASSAULT, 9:04 pm. Two 
Camival-goers were assaulted by 
four individuals. The individuals 
reportedly berated the victims and 
sprayed them with mace before 
leaving.
4/20 PERSONAL INJURY, 
9:22 pm. While helping separate 
two fighting individuals, an offi­
cer hurt his right wrist. He re­
fused medical assistance at the 
time.
4/20 PERSONAL INJURY,
9:26 pm. A cast member of Jesus 
Christ Superstar reported that his 
knee had been injured while danc­
ing. He refused medical trans­
port at the time.
4/20 VANDALISM, 10:04 pm. 
An intoxicated Mudge resident 
broke the glass out of one of the 
doors in the Mudge lobby.
4/20 DEMONSTRATION, 
10:21 pm. The peace demonstra­
tors complained that person(s) 
unknown threw firecrackers at 
them while they were sitting in­
side Wean Hall lobby. The dem­
onstrators were warned that if 
they were caught demonstrating 
inside the building again they 
would be arrested.
4/20 MEDICAL CALL, 10:50 
pm. A Morewood Desk Attendant 
reported a suspicious male who 
may have had mental problems. 
The man was escorted to W.P.I.C.
4/20 PROPERTY DAMAGE, 
11:02 pm. A J & J Amusements 
truck tore two branches off of 
trees on the east side of Skibo’s 
main driveway.
4/20 OPEN LEWDNESS, 
11:58 pm. Several people were 
observed carrying a naked male 
outside Phi Kappa Theta. The 
house was issued a citation for 
obstructing administration of law 
enforcement. One person was is­
sued a citation for open lewdness.
4/21 MEDICAL ESCORT, 
12:59 am. A student was helping 
his sister move a couch when he 
dropped it on his right foot. He 
was transported to Presbyterian 
Hospital.
4/21 OUTSIDE ALCOHOL, 
1:41 am. People said to be alumni 
of Sigma Alpha Epsilon were spot­
ted drinking outside the SAE 
house. The house was issued an 
internal citation.
4/21 MEDICAL ESCORT, 
1:45 am. An overly-intoxicated 
individual was transported to 
Presbyterian Hospital.
4/21 MEDICAL ASSIS­
TANCE, 2:04 am. A woman was 
hyperventilating at the Skibo 
patio. She was transported to 
Presbyterian Hospital.
4/21 ASSAULT, 2:25 am. A 
fight ensued on the corner of 
Forbes and Beeler Streets. The 
individuals will seek end result 
through Magistrate Tucker.
4/21 MEDICAL ESCORT, 
3:12 am. A student called fearing 
he had broken his right hand. He 
was escorted to Presbyterian Hos­
pital.
4/21 VANDALISM, 3:27 am. 
The candy machine in the base­
ment of Resnick was broken into. 
It did not appear that the cashbox 
had been taken.
4/21 PROPERTY DAMAGE, 
3:40 am. A Kappa Delta Rho 
brother said that he observed 
three individuals on the steps of 
the KDR house.
When they left, they pulled some 
bushes up and threw a brick down
the walkway. All three actors then 
proceeded to a nearby fraternity 
house.
4/21 THEFT, 2:30 pm. A Skibo 
Gameroom attendant forgot to 
return the cashbox to the Infor­
mation Desk when his/her shift 
was over. When the cashbox was 
recovered, $35 was missing.
4/21 VEHICLE-THEFT, 4:42 
pm. A 1981 Oldsmobile Cutlass 
was removed from the lower sec­
tion of Area #8.
4/21 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF, 
6:03 pm. A men’s room in Baker 
Hall was found to be vandalized. 
Maintenance was called to have 
the graffiti removed.
4/22 HARASSMENT BY 
COMMUNICATIONS, 12:13 
am. A student reported a phone 
call consisting of a man demand­
ing that he pay for the pizza his 
roommate ordered. The victim had 
not ordered a pizza and his room­
mate was not at home.
4/22 FALSE FIRE ALARM, 
2:13 am. A water balloon fight 
caused a fire alarm signal to be 
sounded.
4/22 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF, 
2:49 am. A large amount of trash 
was found at the bottom of Archi­
tects’ Leap. A report has been 
filed to make individuals aware 
of the dangers of throwing items 
down this stairwell.
4/22 CRIMINAL TRESPASS, 
5:08 am. An individual was found 
rummagingthroughbags of trash 
in CFA. When questioned, he said 
that he’d come into the building 
to get warm and while there de­
cided to do some recycling. The 
individual was told that if he re­
turns to campus without a valid 
reason, he will be arrested.
4/25 THEFT, 10:19 am. ACMU 
faculty member reported a soft­
ware package and camera miss­
ing from his office.
4/25 THEFT, 1:05 pm. A stu­
dent reported his bicycle stolen 
from his fraternity house. The 
bike was valued at $1,000.
4/25 THEFT, 5:09 pm. A stu­
dent reported his bicycle stolen 
from the Hamerschlag bike rack.
4/25 POSSESSION OF IN­
STRUMENT OF CRIME, 5:54 
pm. An individual was spotted 
with a pair of bolt cutters visible 
through a plastic bag. As he went 
to a bike rack, he was stopped by 
CMU police, and the bolt cutters 
were taken in as evidence.
4/25 THEFT, 9:03 pm. A stu­
dent reported his wallet stolen 
from his room.
4/25 INSTITUTIONAL VAN­
DALISM, 9:46 pm. A CMU police 
officer noticed the word “Zonk” 
written on the SEI building. The 
cleaning supervisor was notified 
and removed the graffiti.
4/25 MEDICAL ESCORT, 
10:23 pm. A student injured his 
ankle while playing intramural 
soccer in the gym. Later in the 
evening, as his ankle worsened, 
he phoned Security and was taken 
to Presbyterian Hospital.
Compiled by 
MEGAN DIETZ
Yoiu mUgh aIUsaw 
Hou w,huU auwnvh
Get your just new car with no money
down and no payments for 99 days.
All you have to do is take a field trip to our dealership and 
show us your student I.D., driver’s license and proof of a 
job after graduation. Chances are, you’ll be eligible for up 
to 60 months’ financing on any new Nissan®, with no 
money down and no payments for 90 days.
Now, this extra credit can’t improve your grades. But it can 
certainly get you out of school in a hurry.Expect Greater Value.
03 c2ss wbgIIvs ws2drVs 
MdsCrCi e28. !11 
Du,b prIb Mds2y ws2drVs 
PrV5fJ. x esvrds2y 
Q|’ w.sVruv ws2drVs N8g2, 
LCy Q7.82I 82 e87s,IrV 
9s2Vsms, uCm Ar,,uC
Wetzel Motor Works
SALE HOURS: MON., TUES., THURS. 9-9 WED., FRI. 9-6 SAT. 9-4

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 29 April 19915
3spwghvxUhvos Yiwghvosg UndvsvghuUhvpw PuUahvawg vs S•e’
By MEGAN DIETZ
Tartan Assistant News Editor
Jan M. Kowalski, a graduate student 
in SUPA, has released the executive sum­
mary of a study she conducted in re­
sponse to concerns raised about the ad­
ministration of SUPA Dean Alfred 
Blumstein.
The concerns were raised in a letter to 
the editor from anonymous students that 
appeared in The Tartan [“Dean of SUPA 
must be removed,” 1/28].
Among the concerns addressed were 
faculty turnover rate, diversion of the 
faculty, and the manner in which the 
school has been marketed to prospective 
students. “SUPA may be financially 
sound, but, in our opinion, it is ethically 
bankrupt,” said the letter.
Kowalski, in response to these con­
cerns, conducted a study of Blumstein’s
administration. The executive summary 
of the report, released to President 
Mehrabian last Friday, confirms many 
of these concerns as significant and jus­
tifiable, according to Kowalski.
According to Kowalski’s summary, 
“The number of personnel committed to 
the administration of the School has 
grown at over 2.5 times the rate of growth 
in full-time equivalent enrollment over 
the period of academic years 1986 to
1990.”
Blumstein, who said he “hasn’t calcu­
lated that rate of growth,” could produce 
data which showed that the administra­
tive budget had only grown slightly — 
from 17.2 percent of the total salary 
figure for SUPA in 1986-87 to 20 percent 
of total salaries in 1989-90.
Blumstein also cited extensive growth 
in administrative services such as com­
puting and career services as a possible
reason for this increase.
Another concern addressed in the ex­
ecutive report is the “abnormally high 
turnover rates in the ranks of its regular 
faculty. Compared to other colleges, 
SUPA’s rate in 1989-90 and 1990-91, at 
20.69 percent and 25.93 percent, respec­
tively, has been 2 to 3 times that of CIT 
and GSIA.”
In response to this, Blumstein said, 
“There certainly has been turnover, as 
there is in many academic departments, 
especially professional schools.... I think 
a fair assessment of the situation is that 
the faculty is appreciably better today 
than it was five years ago.”
The summary also alleges that “SUPA’s 
annual surplus has grown by 964.42 per­
cent ... over the period of 1986 to 1990.” 
Blumstein replies, “SUPA and GSIA 
are separate fiscal entities. Some years 
there is a surplus, and some years there
are deficits. A surplus may derive from 
enrollment being higher than expected, 
faculty leaving, or accounting problems.... 
I think we have been fiscally respon­
sible.”
According to the summary, “The per­
centage of black students enrolled at 
SUPAhas declined from 26.67 percent of 
the MS/MAM class entering in the fall of 
1986, to 10.71 percent of the class enter­
ing in the fall of 1990.”
Blumstein noted an omission to the 
summary’s data: 23 percent of the class 
entering in 1989 was black. “It depends 
on what exactly you look at,“ he said. 
“That’s the problem with a loaded rhe­
torical statement — it’s hard to know 
whether the points and measures chosen 
were representative of the school.”
“Black and female faculty tend to have 
much larger classes than other race- 
gender groups,” states the summary.
Blumstein said that the junior faculty 
are sometimes given larger classes, and 
many of the black and female faculty still 
hold junior status. He said, “Any at­
tempt to state that this is based on race 
or gender is an obnoxious innuendo.”
Blumstein has drawn up a report of 
some of his accomplishments, which in­
clude hiring “seven new female faculty 
and instructors, including four new ten- 
ure-track faculty,... more than any other 
administration,” he said.
He also reports that he “employed more 
minority faculty and instructors on aver­
age than any other prior administra­
tion.”
Blumstein’s report also addresses the 
fiscal responsibility of the school, as well 
as student recruitment and improve­
ments in administrative services, such 
as career placement help and computing
JOBS JOBS JOBS JOBS JOBS JOBS JOBS JOBS JOBS 
j 1<> <>
B ¦HmüPÜHPHpMI i;GOVERNMENTJOBS
THEARNR a 
T—FAirRst,e
Thee
1-900-468-2437
24 Hour Hotline
$2.95 per min.
JOBS JOBS JOBS JOBS JOBS JOBS JOBS JOBS JOBS
Students, Faculty, and Staff:
We Pack And Ship Anything, Anywhere."
International and Domestic 
Small Moves - Air or Track 
Foam Packaging
Call for free quotes 
or visit us at Skibo Grey Matter
2101 Greentree Road Phone: 276-7090
COD SHIPPING AVAILABLE
KXP1XTATIÖNK
THE LATEST IN HAIR FASHIONS FOR MEN & WOMEN.
r
The
DESIGNER PERM
only ^30.00
Complete with written 
guarantee
H(T’’ ’cc
| on a
Precision Haircut
I (complete w/ wash & style) 
Expires April 30,1991 
I Not valid with any other offer 
|_ MUST HAVECOUPON_ _
The
PRECISION CUT
only $14.00 
Complete with shampoo 
and blow style
"1
"There's nothing like a 
good play followed by a 
quiet dinner for two"
*1 prefer two tickets to 
watch my favorite teampiay."
¦Wrong. Nothing 
compares to a great rock 
concert!*
No matter what your 
style, you can be sure 
you'll get the latest In 
hair fashions at Great 
Expectations. The one 
salon for everyone.
Volumm /tMLl aN1aalIIlQICwT
PtMaQwQ!A NLQtaJllMtw
JUST-A-CUT
only $10.00
Cut only
I Also 
I Available:
I • Perms 
• Coloring 
I • Frosting 
I • Conditioning
2B7 ’h1oon Shuwwh 
687rB599
STUDENTS WITH COMPUTERS vs Loiu noud uoodTTT
L2s y8g V8CCsVIsm I8 Ibs Vu7.g, CsIp825&
L2s y8g .vuCCrCi 8C vrdrCi rC Vu7.g, b8g,rCi 
CskI ,s7s,Is2& lbsC ud8rm Ibs 1uvv 2g,b )CmTTT
PRE-REGISTER YOUR
euIuV877 r, 811s2rCi u ,s2drVs pbs2s y8g VuC .2sf2sir,Is2 
y8g2 1uvv CsIp825 V8CCsVIr8C ns182s ,Vb88v ,Iu2I, CskI ,s7s,Is2T
WHAT:
WHO:
WHEN:
WHERE:
BRING:
euIuV877 P2sftsir,I2uIr8C 81 cuvv e827 t887 AsIp825 a8CCsVIr8C, 
tsIg2CrCi ,IgmsCI, prIb V87.gIs2, V8CCsVIsm I8 Ibs CsIp825 
lbr, lgs,muyo L.2rv 3’ f lbg2,muyo 9uy E ERRE 
Jaa LI2rg7 
08g2 ,IgmsCI Qe
E4G4KS OE’. Y-• z445 .- 5-:
ET 08g 7g,I ns u 
2sIg2CrCi ,IgmsCI prIb 
u V87.gIs2 uv2sumy 
V8CCsVIsm I8 Ibs 
CsIp825T
(T a87s I8 Ibs Jaa 
LI2rg7 nsIpssC R_’’ 
uCm -_’’ Ibr, lgs,muy 
Ib28gib lbg2,muyT 
U2rCi y8g2 ,IgmsCI QeT
3T LI Ibs LI2rg7o 1rvv 8gI u 
1827 uCm msIs27rCs y8g2 
skr,IrCi 8gIvsI Cg7ns2T 
euIuV877 prvv buds ,.sVruv 
7uV, ,sI g. prIb Ibs 1v882 
.vuC, uCm 8gIvsI Cg7ns2, 
182 uvv 81 Ibs m827,T
OT esIs27rCs y8g2 CskI 
ysu2W, 8gIvsI Cg7ns2 
1287 8Cs 81 Ibs 7uV, 
uCm p2rIs rI m8pC 8C Ibs 
1827T NuCm Ibs 1827 I8 
8Cs 81 Ibs u,,r,IuCI,T QIW, 
IbuI ,r7.vsY

---------------------------------------------------

6The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 29 April 1991
Student Senate Minutes
Meeting 
called to
order at SENATE 
6:’’.
Senators Present: Albert 
(CFA), Altmann (CS), Austin 
(MCS), Barnes (H&SS), Blake 
(CFA), Crehan (H&SS), Dauter- 
mann (CIT), Dean (CIT), DeRoss 
(MCS), Ikeda (H&SS), Larson 
(CFA), Loofbourrow (CIT), Loomis 
(GSIA), Moore (CIT), Moran (CIT), 
Mueller (IM)(lat'e), Neighbor 
,(CFA), Newfleld (MCS), Shin 
(H&SS), Strong (MCS), Wyatt 
.(CIT)(late), Yu (GSIA).
Senators Absent: Chien 
(GSIA), Meek (H&SS).
Ex-Officios Present: Dean 
Murphy, Nightwine (AB).
Ex-Officios Absent: Erickson 
.(Treasurer), Evans (GC Repre­
sentative), Rao (President), Trost 
!(GSO), Dean Witchner.
Special Business:
; Funded Recognition: Celtic His­
tory Society. Non-Funded Recog­
nition: Graphic Communications 
Management Student Organiza­
tion. Special Allocation: AB Films 
$11,670. Constitution: Article 4: 
passed. Article 5: passed. Article 
16: passed. Article 7: passed. Ar­
ticle 8: passed. Vote: passes.
AB — Eric Nightwine: Car­
nival went really well from the 
AB standpoint. The Clarks and 
Ocean Blue started late because 
the bands arrived late. The con­
cert was inside the tent.
Greek Council — Kriss 
Evans: Goal setting session last
meeting. One more next Tuesday 
for the next semester. There was 
a long discussion if the constitu­
tion now gives the Greek Council 
too much power. They will work 
with Senate in defining Greek 
Council’s new role. Relationship 
between the greeks and the fac­
ulty was discussed. Music at the 
fence and the roles of greeks in 
academic scholarship was also dis­
cussed.
Student Affairs — Dean 
Murphy: Carnival went well. A 
proposal for Music at the fence 
was brought forth.
Chair — Chris Neighbor: 
The Tartan Forum had a poor 
editorial about Senate. The Ex­
ecutive Board will write a letter 
to the editor s aying that they need 
to get their facts straight. We’ve 
had a successful semester. 
Thanks to the committee chairs 
and the secretary.
Campus Affairs — Hyun 
Shin: Feedback from faculty
regarding Gym proposal. Help 
will come from the Athletic Com­
mittee. Progress report by April 
30. Meeting on Monday 9:30. Still 
waiting for the police report for 
bicycle thefts. Petitions soon to 
go out to faculty re: the gym.
Funding & Recognition — 
Terrel Dean & Brad Wyatt: 
UEA gets one of the Macs for a 1 
year trial basis. The other will go 
to Ross Comer’s proposal for a file 
server for campus organizations.
Public Relations — Colin 
Crehan: Meeting nextWednes-
day for those still around. Talk­
ing with Anne regarding a Senate 
Social. Happy Hour went well. 
Try to get Senate to realize they 
are a unified body. Letters to 
Freshmen are almost ready.
Rules — Stewart Barnes: 
Thanks to sommittee members 
and Tom Strong even though he’s 
not a committee member. We now 
have a new Constitution. Please 
respect it and follow it. The Con­
stitution will be distributed to the 
student body. Suggestion: Rules 
take on the Student Handbook 
project.
New Business:
Meetings next semester will be 
at 7 pm on Tuesdays in the 
Wherrett Room.
Introduction of Bylaws: Intro­
duction: motion to move on. Sec­
tion A: motion to move on. Section 
B: motion to move on. Section C: 
motion to move on. Section D 
motion to move on. Section E: 
motion to move on. Passes. Erik 
Altmann: Telephone harassment 
and physical harassment charges 
against Association for Life. Mo­
tion to withdraw recognition.
Discussion: Happy Hour went 
great. Skibo probably not down 
for another year. Senate Andrew 
Account has been updated. Sen­
ate has been professionalized: 
good! Elections are going well, we 
should have the results by Fri­
day. Congrats to Colin for the 
elections.
Meeting adjourned at 10:50.
Submitted by Amy Blake.
HateMaü.
Public officials in 
more than 120 countries 
hate to get mail about 
human rights abuse. It 
causes trouble. It causes 
publicity. And it causes 
freedom.
Write today. Your 
letter can make a 
difference, too.
Write a letter, 
save a life.
Amnesty International
vR S.•54z.S:
e’WA3zt •e?
THE CMU POST OFFICE CAN HELP YOU 
PACK IT UP AND SEND IT OFF!!
ON FRIDAY, MAY 3RD OUR STAFF WILL BE AT TWO 
LOCATIONS TO SELL BOXES AND PACKING TAPE. 
WE WILL SEND YOUR PACKAGES HOME BY 
UNITED PARCEL SERVICE AFTER YOU'VE 
WRAPPED THEM UP.
LOCATIONS: DONNER FIRST FLOOR LOUNGE AND MOREWOOD REC ROOM
DATES: MAY 3 1991 THRU MAY 17,1991
HOURS OF OPERATION: M - F 11:00 A.M. - 7 P.M., SATURDAY 10 A.M. - 3 P.M.
SCHEDULEFRIDAYMAY 311:00 A.M.-7:00 P.M.DONNER
SATURDAYMAY 410:00 A.M. - 3:00 P.MMOREWOOD
MONDAYMAY 611:00A.M. - 7:00 P.M.DONNER
TUESDAYMAY 711:00 A.M. - 7:00 P.M.MOREWOOD
WEDNESDAYMAY 811:00 A.M. -7:00 P.M.DONNER
THURSDAYMAY 911:00 A.M. - 7:00 P.M.MOREWOOD
FRIDAYMAY 1011:00 A.M.-7:00 P.M.DONNER
SATURDAYMAY 1110:00 A.M.-3:00 P.M.MOREWOOD
MONDAYMAY 1311:00 A.M.-7:00 P.M.DONNER
TUESDAYMAY 1411:00 A.M. - 7:00 P.M.MOREWOOD
WEDNESDAYMAY 1511:00 A.M. - 7:00 P.M.DONNER
THURSDAYMAY 1611:00 A.M. -7:00 P.M.MOREWOOD
FRIDAYMAY 1711:00 A.M. - 7:00 P.M.DONNER
eg Leadership, 
g Friendship,
•g and Service
^ On your initiation.
g Jeff Brown 
Q) Alison Carter 
g Scott Chiang 
s Corrina Kellam
Nathan Loofbourrow 
Dale Newfield 
Christy Rohrig 
Fred Trudwig, Jr.
The Brothers of
Alpha Phi Omega
ctMM aLlLS!/
of Government Books
Send for your copy today!
Free Catalog
Box 37000 
Washington DC 20013-7000
RESEARCH PAPERS
18,500 (o choose from - all subjects 
Order Catalog Today wilh Visa/MC or COD
IBIIWnilBim 6’’f3-Ef’(((
In Calif. (213) 477-8226 
Or, rush S2.00 lo: Research Assistance 
11322 Idaho Ave. «206-SN Los Angeles, CA 90025 
Custom research available- all levels
SE3ee3zt S4G23W4 
WRAP-IT PACK-IT SHIP-IT
We ship any item 
anywhere. Bring your 
Wop valuables in today.
^ ~ Call for pick-up.
Wrap and Pack 
6400 Hamilton Ave. 
441-7722
WosxuUhimUhvosg xuUniUhwg!
Show your student I.D. at the 
Benedum Center and get 50% off 2 
tickets to the celebrated
FELD
BALLETS/NY
"Dancing of meticulously calibrated 
wildness ..." Los Angeles Times
Saturday, May 11,1991 at 8:00 pm 
The Benedum Center 
To order, call 456-6666
Presented by
GOING HOME?
SHIP YOUR ROOM HOME!
We can package any item and ship any­
where via UPS, Truck or Air...domestic and 
International!
WE SELL BOXES AND TAPE!
Professional Packaging Services For:
¦ Stereos • Clothes • Refrigerators
• Bikes • Trunks • Furniture
• Books • TVs ¦ Artwork
• VCR's • Skis • Computers
LOCATED AT SKIBO GREY MATTER: Daily Hours 11 -6
Friday, May 10 Wednesday, May 15
Monday, May 13 Thursday,May 16 
Tuesday,May 14 Monday,May20
2101 Greentree Road Phone: 276-7090
COD SHIPPING AVAILABLE
Dalmo Optical
A New Discount
For CMU Students, Faculty, & Staff
Save 20%
The 23-Checkpoint Eye Exam:
Our computerized eye exam provides a detailed optometric profile. 
The result...confidence in vision for you.
In-House Laboratories:
One hour service is available from our in-house laboratories, and 
you get Dalmo’s assurance of the highest quality and accuracy in 
the industry
The New Vision - In Frames and Contacts:
Selection. It’s the first thing that meets the eye at every Dalmo 
Optical Center. From bold colors and sophisticated profiles in 
frames to Extended Wear, Gas Permeable and Disposable 
Contacts, Dalmo has it all!
Guaranteed Lowest Price:
The finest designs fromEurope...the best designs in 
America...Dalmo has them all for the guaranteed lowest price.
Dr. B.H. Grossman, 
Director
Squirrel Hill 
5824 Forbes 
Ave. 
521-2100

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 29 April 1991-7
zwvxIlou gPwUfg os SwsUhw xoUmg
By DAVID LADEK
Tartan News Editor
“Student Senate has a full 
agenda of things to do this fall,” 
according to Senate Chair Chris 
Neighbor, a fourth-year architec­
ture major.
“In addition to our business of 
organization budgets and fund­
ing, we have several items which 
we would like to pursue and imple­
ment,” continued Neighbor.
One of the items that Senate 
will be working on is the issue of 
university free time from 4:30 to 
6:30 pm each day. During this 
time, no classes would be held.
“Senate has a full agenda.”
— Chris Neighbor 
Student Senate Chair
“[Faculty Senate] liked the idea, 
but decided that it didn’t have the 
power to [implement] that,” said 
Neighbor. “They suggested that 
we approach each college with 
the plan. We plan to do that.” 
Neighbor also said that Senate 
will be pushing further on the 
improvements to the athletic fa­
cilities suggested earlier by
Senate’s Campus Affairs Commit­
tee. “We have even had faculty 
members approach Senate,” he 
said. “The community is obviously 
concerned about this issue.” 
Along with this, Neighbor said, 
the Senate will be bringing for­
ward several new projects and 
working with Student Govern­
ment President-elect Hyun Shin.
’sn hIw 1vsswu vgTTT
1 9
E¿ECTIONS
Student Government President
Terrel Dean..........................................166
Michael Ewedosh................................137
Natalie Gesmond................................228
Hugh Moore.........................................124
? Hyun Shin............................................520
Student Senate Races
College of Fine Arts
James Albert..............................................35
? Amy Blake..................................................47
? Erik Larson ................................................63
? Chris Neighbor..........................................54
? Mofleet Singh............................................45
Carnegie Institute of Technology
? Mike Cohen.................................................42
Steve Gifford................................................34
? Brad Lawrence........................................162
? Erik Nightwine........................................154
? Matthew Shevach...................................116
SUP A
? Lothar Boensch...........................................2
? Jake Jones.....................................................1
? Kirk Lenga.....................................................1
GSIA
? Michael Loomis........................................15
Mellon College of Science
? Rob Chesnavich.........................................10
Julie McElhinny..........................................8
Eric Moore.....................................................8
Tom Smith.....................................................8
? Mike Tomblyn............................................11
Humanities and Social Sciences
? Jodi Gillis.....................................................62
Rick Harris.................................................43
? Adam Kroos..............................................155
? Patrick Mooney.........................................93
Note: a star (-k) denotes that the candidate 
received a seat on Student Senate.
O4 SE3e S.-FF E-D4
When it’s time to pack up and go home...
We can help!
/sIIrCi y8g2 ,Ig11 b87s m8s,CWI buds I8 ns u bu,,vsT 
DsWvv .uV5 uCm ,br. rI uvv b87s 182 y8gT c287 
nrVyVvs, I8 V87.gIs2, B ,br..rCi ,7uvv v8um, r, 8g2 
,.sVruvIyT Ds ,br. 1g2CrIg2s I88Y
auvv g, C8p uCm y8g2 ,Ig11 prvv ns b87s ns182s y8g 
u2sY
K ag,I87 V2uIrCi uCm .uV5rCi
K wbr..rCi 1287 E I8 Eo’’’ vn,T BrCVvgmrCi 8ds2z
CribI msvrds2yT
K QC,g2uCVs I8 F-’o’’’
K PrV5fg. ,s2drVs
K ­r,uo 9u,Is2abu2iso L7sk
$5.00 grp
prIb V8g.8C
(S50 minimum)A827uC asCI2s QQo P/No PL E-(OE
DwIuUlvUs sUdwg Puopogh
PROVOST, from page 1
this chance.”
Christiano holds bachelor’s, 
master’s, and doctoral degrees 
from Carnegie Mellon. After re­
ceiving his doctorate, he spent 
six years on the faculty at the 
University of Minnesota before 
returning to CMU, where he has 
been a member of the faculty 
since 1974. He was head of Civil 
Engineering from 1986 to 1989. 
He also served as associate dean 
of CIT from 1982 to 1986.
“The University has done well 
over the last two decades,” said 
Christiano. “We need to main­
tain the momentum we’ve 
gained, especially in the last five 
or six years.”
Christiano stressed that this
was a difficult time for universi­
ties in general, mostly “in terms 
of finance, enrollment, and edu­
cational standards,” he said. 
“What we need to do is continue 
to build during this rough time. 
Not just in the money aspect, 
but by improving the campus 
and campus life."
“The search for a new dean 
included the evaluation of about 
150 candidates in the last seven 
months by an outstanding com­
mittee headed by [Morgan],” said 
Mehrabian.
“Basically, the committee’s job 
was to do a substantial amount 
of homework for the president,” 
said Morgan. “We gave him a 
list of candidates, and from there 
he went through his own deci­
sion-making process.”
The provost, according to Jor­
dan, is the president’s right hand 
in terms of running the Univer­
sity. “Even though the presi­
dent is more visible, the provost 
is the one who runs things,” he 
said. “The provost oversees the 
deans of all the colleges—there­
fore the colleges themselves —- 
and is in charge of major re­
search institutes such as Mel­
lon Institute and the Software 
Engineering Institute.”
The provost is also the chief, 
academic and research officer 
in the University, said Jordan. 
In the case of the president’s 
absence, the provost takes over 
the University. “He’s like the 
number one VP,” said Jordan.
PMLaM a!tPw D!tSe DQwM Inside
jjjjjjjjFor further information about Peace Corps, write Box 896, Washington DC 20526jjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjjj
INSTRUCTIONS: The U.S. Peace Corps has volunteers serving in more than 70 nations 
around the world. By solving this puzzle, you will learn about one of these countries.
Solve the four numbered puzzle words and then unscramble the letters in the squares to produce 
the name of the country darkened on the map at the right.
lbr, South L7s2rVuC CuIr8Co un8gI 
Ibs ,rqs 81 auvr182Cruo r, 
,g228gCmsm ny U2uqrvo Bolivia uCm 
L2isCIrCuT
1. Spanish explorer who first explored this country In 1526. Sebastian____
KmSojoj = joint p wsqXot-f ru3pts*id 'z loqoj i
2. Title of this nation’s head of state.
3. Plant widely known for Its oil-rich seeds.
4. A sweet, crystallizable material.
Scuba Dive This Summer 
Lessons at CMU Pool
Cost: $150.00
Includes textbook, dive 
tables, training logbook, 
equipment for pool session 
and check out dives.
You provide your own 
mask, fins, snorkel, and wet 
suit.
Call: Aquatic Department
Bruce Bronsdon 
268-2346 
or
Rich Moskala 
521-9119
“Saftey Through Education”
NAUI Certification
Classes held throughout the summer

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
.Ivghmwg Usn .IousgM j99j
Letters to the Editor
The time has come again for 
Thistles and Thorns, a Tartan 
éditorial tradition for the last 
issue of the year. We award 
Thistles to people and organiza­
tions we feel have contributed 
positively to the campus com­
munity in the past year. Thoms 
go to those who have acted in 
ways that are, well, less than 
beneficial to the community.
To begin, cmuOUT has been 
an active and effective organi­
zation this year, and receives 
multiple Thistles: for its work 
during homecoming; for the cel­
ebration which it organized for 
National Coming Out Day at 
Carnegie Mellon on October 11; 
for the report it made to President 
Mehrabian on lesbian, gay, and 
bisexual issues at CMU; and for 
its work on the NAMES Project, 
which involved sewing the names 
of people who have died of AIDS 
onto quilt panels.
Inter-fraternity Council gets a 
Thorn for scheduling last fall’s 
Pledge Night on the same night 
as Yom Kippur.
A Thistle goes to the 21.6 per­
cent of the student body who 
voted in the Student Government 
elections. Nevertheless, the 
turnout shouldhavebeena whole 
lot better, so a Thorn goes to the 
78.4percentwhodidn’tvote. CIT 
freshman Matt Everett gets his 
own Thorn for threatening CS 
Senator Erik Altmann. A Phi O 
and Senate get a Thistle for get­
ting an election right, finally.
Speaking of Student Govern­
ment, outgoing President 
Kishore Rao receives a Thistle 
for taking a good idea, the fifth 
year program, and pushing it to 
implementation, but also gets a 
Thom because we haven’t seen 
any other results of his presi­
dency.
We give the Campus Affairs 
Committee of Student Senate a 
Thistle for the elaborate and 
much-needed report on the state 
ofthe gym facilities, and we hope 
the administration will take ac­
tion on it. We give Senate a 
Thom, though, for funding Greek 
Sing — a charity event.
President Mehrabian gets a 
Thistle for his emphasis on in­
ternational education.
Last year we gave a Thistle for 
the creation of the Modern Lan­
guages Department, and this 
year the department and Bar­
bara Freed share a Thistle for 
the improvements to the depart­
ment and the Study Abroad 
program. They get a Thorn, 
however, for the cancelled lan­
guage classes earlier this se­
mester and the hassle it caused 
students.
Health Services gets a Thistle 
for a good women’s health pro­
gram, but also a Thorn because 
they have made it an inconve­
nience to get a gynecological ap­
pointment.
Housing gets Thorns for the 
loss of the keys to Resnik House, 
the West Wing and Morewood E- 
Tower, for the disrepair of the 
elevators in Resnik and the West 
Wing, and for the unpredictable 
hot water supply in Resnik, the 
West Wing, Donner, andMudge. 
We also give Housing a Thorn 
for the poor condition of the Es­
cort vans and buses.
The Registrar’s Office snags a 
Thom for its slow transcript pro­
cess, which caused problems for
seniors who needed their tran­
scripts more quickly than they 
were getting them.
We give Environmental Health 
and Safety a Thistle for the vast 
improvement in recycling services 
and opportunities this year. Ev­
eryone on campus who has been 
making the effort to recycle shares 
that Thistle.
The administration draws 
Thorns for the poor handicapped 
access on campus, and for not 
finding adequate sources of fund­
ing for club sports. It rates a 
Thistle, though, for finally get­
ting the East Campus project fin­
ished this year.
We give Carnegie Mellon Din­
ing Service Thorns for cutting 
services to meet budget, and for 
raising the prices of the food and 
meal plans while keeping meal 
allowances the same.
Speaking of food, we’d like to 
give Vincent Eirene a Thistle — 
who’d have thought that dieting 
could be a political statement?
We have a number of sports 
Thistles to give out this year. 
Swimmer Brian Zimmerman 
earned one as Carnegie Mellon’s 
first Division III national cham­
pion, in the 500-meter freestyle 
and the 200-meter freestyle. The 
football team gets a Thistle for 
having an undefeated regular 
season and for making it to the 
playoffs. Women’s basketball also 
deserves a Thistle for reaching 
the playoffs. Soccer was only one 
game out of the playoffs, so well 
give that team a Thistle as well.
Katie Stannard, assistant to the 
dean of Student Affairs, has done 
an excellent job with the Last 
Lecture Series—we award her a 
big Thistle for that.
A Thistle goes to senior Ingrid 
Bromberg and Assistant Focus 
Editor Treva Formby for creating 
Stop Rape!, an organization de­
voted to publicizing cases of rape 
and sexual assault in order to 
inform the community. Another 
Thistle goes to Bromberg and 
junior Justine Dymond for start­
ing Action Against Rape, which 
educates the campus community 
about rape and works toward 
streamlining the assault report­
ing process.
To junior Elizabeth Cronise goes 
a Thom for lowering the intellec­
tual level of discourse on the sub­
ject of rape and sexual assault 
with her inflammatory tactics and 
for giving feminism a bad name.
We have to give a Thorn to the 
The Thistle yearbook for 1990, 
simply because we haven’t seen it 
yet, and we’d really like to know 
where it is.
For this year’s personal Thistles, 
we’d like to honor all of The 
Tartan’s graduating staff mem­
bers, who have worked long and 
hard hours. They are Andi Briggs, 
Ingrid Bromberg, Dawn 
Brosonski, William Burky, Grant 
Carmichael, Flint Crumpacker, 
Lori Demeter, Frank DiVito, 
Danny Fahs, Dustin Frazier, 
Javier Grillo-Marxuach, Daniel 
Holland, Mike Kirscht, Doug 
Lamperski, Jonathan Levy, 
Karen Loglisci, Neil McCarthy, 
Shizuka Otake, Howdy Pierce, 
Michael T. Rose, R. J. Runas, Chris 
Shields, Jack Silbert, Clifford 
Snyder, Richard Song, and K. 
Michael Thomas. We greatly 
value the contribution of these 
people to The Tartan, and we will 
miss them.
Residents question secu­
rity of campus
Editor:
During this past 
Spring Break, two 
Margaret Morrison cwhh6H tO 
Apartments were bro- the Edjt()|. 
ken into and $5,000 
worth of property was stolen. Both apart­
ments had their windows locked, outside 
doors dead bolted — one even had both 
bedroom doors dead bolted — and there 
was no sign of forced entry. Upon talking 
to past and present Margaret Morrison 
residents, several other burglaries in the 
Margaret Morrison Apartments over the 
past two academic years were uncovered. 
In the incidents that we know of, there 
was no sign of forced entry and they all 
occurred over breaks. This leads us to 
believe that someone either has posses­
sion of or access to a master key and has 
been breaking into apartments.
We, who pay extra money to live on 
campus, feel that our apartments are 
unsafe and want the rest of the campus 
community to know about this.
When talking to Tony Martin of Hous­
ing, he indicated that Housing was not 
responsible for students’ possessions. 
However, considering the circumstances 
of each burglary, we feel Housing is re­
sponsible.
There was little doubt when looking at 
past burglaries that the thief was in pos­
session of or had access to a master key, 
yet Housing did nothing to remedy the 
situation. Mr. Martin did not seem to feel 
that the burglaries were a trend or a 
problem. His solution to the problem was 
gettingthe locks to the apartment changed. 
Since these locks can be accessed by the 
same master key as before, this does little 
to remedy the situation. Housing needs to 
change its policies: there is obviously a 
problem when apartments are being con­
tinually robbed.
We feel that Housing should: 1) Warn 
students directly to take home valuables 
during all breaks and inform them that 
Housing is not responsible for students’ 
possessions. This could be done through a 
simple campus-wide mailing before each 
break.
2)When two similar burglaries occur in 
the same area within a year with no sign 
of forced entry and when the doors and 
windows have been locked, Housing should 
be responsible for replacing all locks in the 
area with locks that belong to a different 
master key.
3) During breaks, security should in­
crease patrols of outer areas of campus.
4) Housing should take responsibility 
for the theft of property when students 
take every reasonable precaution to safe­
guard their belongings.
5) Housing/Maintenance should not be 
able to enter rooms without students 
knowing about it.
We are not accusing Housing of the 
burglaries. What we are saying is that 
Housing has not been acting to meet its 
responsibility of providing safe housing to 
students. Does it take injury to or rape of 
a student in order for Housing to take 
action?
Someone has access to our apartments 
right now and could easily break in and 
rape or even kill any of the residents in 
Margaret Morrison. Unless we start put­
ting pressure on Housing to change these 
policies, we will not be safe in our rooms.
While Mr. Martin stated that our par­
ents’ homeowner’s insurance — assum­
ing everyone’s parents own homes! — 
will cover the stolen property, we still 
feel violated. Yes, Mr. Martin, we can 
replace our belongings, but we can never 
replaceour sense of security now that we 
know that someone can get into our 
apartments anytime they wish.
We just want students to know that 
even if they take every precaution to 
secure their belongings—such as hiding 
them, locking doors and windows—over 
breaks, there is no guarantee by Housing 
that their belongings will be there when 
they get back. Remember this when you 
make the decision to live on campus next 
year.
If anyone has information regarding 
any of the Margaret Morrison burglar­
ies, or saw anything out of the ordinary 
(such as unrecognized persons carrying 
large bags) during any of the breaks, 
please feel free to anonymously contact 
any of the people listed below.
In the meantime, we hope that Hous­
ing will thoughtfully consider our sug­
gestions to make campus living safer.
Andrea Boyer
Senior, Industrial Management
Aru Deshmukh
Junior, Chemical Engineering
Jeffrey Housenbold
Senior, Industrial Management
Louis Jackson
Senior, Industrial Management 
Nichole Loomis
Freshman, Electrical Engineering 
Nina Pinto
Senior, Information Systems
Students protest loss of 
Russell Moses
Editor:
We are bringing to 
your attention this let­
ter and the accompying 
petition to discuss a 
current situation with 
one of the professors at this university. 
Doctor Russell Moses, a professor in the 
History and Social and Decision Sci­
ences Departments of this university will 
not be returning next semester. We be­
lieve that this is not in the best interests 
of the university. Dr. Moses currently 
teaches both the Understanding Inter­
national Relations course and the course 
on the Soviet Union under Gorbachev. 
Dr. Moses has shown consistent concern 
for his students and makes time, when­
ever convenient for the students, to meet 
a discuss any problems they might be 
having. This is not only related to the 
classes he teaches: Russell Moses has 
also shown concern for the students’ lives 
outside his courses and is always willing 
to give advice if his students seek it. Dr. 
Moses has always taken both his work 
and the subjects he teaches very seri­
ously. Furthermore, he tries to instill 
this seriousness in every one of his stu­
dents. We believe that the History De­
partment and this university as a whole 
have not done enough to extend a contract 
for Dr. Moses for the 1991-1992 school 
year. Our accusations are proven due to 
the fact that he has not been rehired. We 
do not place the blame on the History 
Department as a whole and do under­
stand their current financial burden. 
Therefore, we requested that President 
Mehrabian look into the situation and if
necessary allot more money to the His­
tory Department so that Professor Moses 
could be re-hired. President Mehrabian 
has consistently discussed internation­
alization of CMU, yet he will not look 
into a situation that directly hampers 
that goal, since Professor Moses is one of 
the best international peace and security 
professors at this school.
The accompanying petition was pre­
sented to both Professor Peter Stearns, 
HistoryDepartmentHead, and President 
Mehrabian and was signed by 100 stu­
dents of Carnegie Mellon University:
“We, the undersigned, believe that the 
non-renewal of Professor Russell Leigh 
Moses’ contract to teach at Carnegie 
Mellon University is detrimental not only 
to the students ofthe History Department 
but the entire University as a whole. We 
believe that Professor Moses is one of the 
best professors at this University, and 
thus we urge Carnegie Mellon University 
to reconsider its position.”
Eric Richardson 
Junior, History 
Marcus Gibbons 
Junior, Economics 
David Gould 
Senior, History
SDC food committee 
offended by comments
Editor:
This letter is in re­
sponse to Howdy 
Pierce’s column on 
CMDS [“Bureaucracy, 
budget should not 
control CMDS,” 4/22]. As members ofthe 
SDC food committee, we were rather 
offended by his statement that the SDC 
food committee “is perhaps the most 
worthless advisory board at this school.” 
The purpose of this committee is to com­
municate ideas from the students to the 
various heads of Dining Service and for­
ward their responses back to the stu­
dents at SDC meetings. Our suggestions 
and comments are based on what we 
hear from students and also on what we 
experience ourselves at the cafeterias. 
Due to the nature of the committee, its 
effectiveness is based on students’ input.
In the time we have been involved with 
the committee, on the average, 3-4 stu­
dents were present at each meeting, 
despite repeated announcements of the 
dates and times at SDC meetings. We 
also invite everyone, including students 
who are not SDC reps, to these meetings. 
We count on the SDC reps to spread the 
word. Our food meetings provide an op­
portunity for students to voice their 
opinions directly to the dining service 
managers. We agree that we should not 
rely just on SDC reps and occasional 
announcements at places other than SDC 
meetings to spread the word around. We 
will ask the PR committee to try to in­
crease awareness of the different SDC 
committees.
The committee can take some credit for 
several things. Some examples are the 
improvement in the Tartan Grill lines, 
addition of new menu items, etc. Dining 
Service acted on several other smaller 
issues based on ideas discussed at these 
meetings. We think we are doing a good 
job in lettingDining Service know what 
the students are unhappy with. We also 
Please see LETTERS, page 11
housing
w ôi
by CMU
cwhhwu ho hIo Anmmou .Io .UuhUs SfmloEUmmW-
cwhhwu ho 
hIw 4nvhou
03
3,hhwu hU hIw D•ou
cwhhwu ho 
hIw 4nvhou

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 29 April 19919
Columnist reflects on life at CMU
Jonathan Levy
A fellow graduating columnist 
asked me last week what he 
should write for his last column.
I told him there were basically 
two approaches I could recommend 
to him. The first was to write some 
sort of commentary on the end of 
his CMU career. That’s the tradi­
tional way to go. Type the greatest, 
most profound 3000 characters ever 
to see print; reveal the secret of the 
universe in the final paragraph; 
and ride off into the sunset.
The second approach would be to 
take advantage of the invulner­
ability inherent in the situation. 
Attack anybody or anything, safe 
in the knowledge that by the time 
your victim gets a chance to re­
spond next August you’ll be gone 
and untouchable.
I wasn’t sure which way to go in 
my own final column. I’m not very 
profound; I haven’t ridden a horse 
since the last time I went to sum­
mer camp; and if anything, the 
secret of the universe is less clear 
to me now than it was when I 
arrived at this school.
On the other hand, hit and run 
shots aren’t much fun either. If 
you’re going to go to the trouble of 
attacking people, you might as 
well hang around for the pleasure 
of watching them bleed.
But I realized there might be 
some potential in combining the 
two styles. I could tell the truth 
about CMU as I see it without
worrying about anybody being able 
. to disagree until I’m too far away to 
care.
That sounded like a pretty good 
deal, so the following are some of 
my observations and recommen­
dations collected from five years at 
CMU.
•Caution can have its price at 
CMU, as I discovered before even 
arriving. Even though I had de­
cided several weeks earlier to come 
here, I waited until right before the 
May 1 deadline to mail my accep­
tance letter in case I changed my 
mind. Unfortunately, no one had 
told me that housing preference 
was based on when people notified 
the Admissions Office that they 
were coming, hence my freshman 
year in Hamerschlag.
•The words “fruit” and “veg­
etable” exist nowhere at CMU 
outside college guidebooks.
•Bitching about work is the of­
ficial sport of CMU.
•It is possible to get six hours of 
sleep nine out of ten weeknights 
and 10 hours a night on the week­
ends. It took me until the begin­
ning of my senior year to figure 
that out, but once I did, both my 
grades and my happiness im­
proved.
•The best conversations on 
campus about everything from sex 
to politics are held in The Tartan 
office between the hours of 2 and 
7 am.
•It may be possible to graduate 
from CMU twice without ever en­
tering the steam tunnels or paint­
ing the Fence, although I still have 
hopes of disproving the latter.
If you absolutely have to live in Hamerschlag, be sure to 
have a friend who “borrowed” a laser from his high 
school. It’s great for use on cats, pizza delivery people, 
and singing sorority sisters.
•I also have never been to The 
Carnegie. But I am suitably em­
barrassed by that fact and will try 
to rectify it in the 16 days between 
my last final and graduation.
•The fraternities should stop 
complaining that everybody, espe­
cially the administration, is out to 
get them. Not only is the adminis­
tration not out to get them, but it 
bends over backwards to prop them 
up — most notably by providing 
them exemptions from the liquor, 
noise, and rape laws. It also allows 
them the privilege of running dis­
criminatory organizations at a 
school which presents itself to the 
world as providing equal opportu­
nity for all.
•Three Rivers Stadium is a 
hideously ugly ballpark but it has 
a great abbreviation (3RS).
• If you absolutely have to live 
in Hamerschlag, be sure to have a 
friend who “borrowed” a laser from 
his high school. It’s great for use 
on cats, pizza delivery people, and 
singing sorority sisters.
•If you cross register for a Pitt 
class held in the Cathedral of 
Learning, make sure the class­
room is on one of the upper floors. 
The most exciting part of the view 
from the north side of the second 
floor is the sign for the Oakland
Holiday Inn.
•Most of the English majors at 
CMU can’t communicate well 
enough to call the fire depart­
ment if their houses are on fire. 
Of course, most of them wouldn’t 
do so anyway since fire depart­
ments perpetuate the power of 
white heterosexual males and fire 
hoses are phallic symbols.
•Even if few people appreciated 
him then or remember him now, 
former Student Senator and Stu­
dent Union non-editor Allen 
Greenberg was one of the great 
people to pass through CMU in 
recent years. I can think of no one 
else who managed to combine a 
progressive agenda and an ability 
to work within the system so suc­
cessfully.
•Vince Eirene is God’s gift to 
slow news weeks.
•Pioneers is an incredible orga­
nization. I have to admit some bias 
as I was one of the founding mem­
bers of the organization formed the 
spring of my freshman year by 
friends of my RA and people from 
our floor. But the facts pretty much 
speak for themselves. How many 
other organizations have won booth 
the first three years they have been 
in existence—and four of the first 
five — won buggy design in their
first year of competition; and built 
a credible Sweepstakes program 
within five years? One of the big 
mistakes I made at CMU was al­
lowing myself to lose touch with 
the organization after my junior 
year.
•No student government presi­
dent, senator, administrator, or 
anybody else will ever increase 
student involvement because stu­
dents don’t want their involvement 
increased. They are happy to have 
a small group of people running 
the activities hallway, another 
small group running the Greek 
system, and everybody else ignor­
ing the first two groups most of the 
time.
•Last, but most certainly not 
least, the three best teachers I have 
had at CMU were professors Paul 
Karol of chemistry, Ted Fenton of 
history, and Jim Peters of SUPA. 
Others have been good, but none 
matched their combinations of 
natural teaching ability, willing­
ness to work harder than any stu­
dent in their classes, and concern 
for students in and out of class. 
Thanks.
Jonathan Levy is a second year 
SUPA master’s student and a 1990 
Biology Department alumnus.
Of aircraft carriers, soapbox racers, 
and the ultimate summer job...
Off.
Randy L. Udavcak
Amazing. Just when I thought I would 
never find a summer job, I find out I already 
have one! As a spokesperson for the Penta­
gon, no less!
Defending her claims about CMlPs mili­
tary research on the computer science opin­
ion bulletin board, Erin Bush—a Pitt student 
joining Vincent Eirene for the hunger strike 
in front of Wean Hall — penned the follow­
ing: “Some poeple [sic] are not very convinced 
when I site [sic ]The Tartan as my reference 
for this info., however this info, was confirmed 
by Randy Udivack [sic] at the Pentagon.” 
Just to make sure her foot was firmly 
implanted in her throat (her left foot, no 
doubt), Bush queries: “Now am I supposed to 
believe that the Pentagon is an unreliable 
source [no question mark].”
No, Ms. Bush, one could never question the 
integrity of such an authoritative source, 
much less the individual who cited him. I can 
only assume that I am suffering from acute 
amnesia. Please tell me how I might go about 
regaining my former esteemed position, as I 
undoubtedly commanded a higher pay rate 
as a Pentagon spokesperson than I do 
freelancing for In Pittsburgh Newsweekly.
To think that all this time since that 
mysterious accident erased my memory I’ve 
been pining away in the guise of a college 
student, squandering my shrinking reserves 
of cash on an unnecessary CMU education! 
Last semester I wrote a story on Vincent
Eirene’s claims that CMtFs School of Com­
puter Science was doing work which was in 
violation of the University’s stated policy of 
not engagingin classified military research.
In gathering all relevant information 
for the story—which included examining 
the details of the alleged “classified re­
search” in a report on file in the E&S 
Library — I spoke with Lieutenant Mark 
Walker and Senior Chief Bob Howard, 
both of the Pentagon. It’s odd, but I don’t 
remember asking for a job at this time.
Nevertheless, the upshot of my story 
was that CMU designed an artificial intel­
ligence system called the Command Ac­
tion Team (CAT), to be used on the USS 
Carl Vinson. The system — which is de­
signed to identify and catalog possible 
threats to carrier groups — does not fall 
under the category of “classified research.” 
In addition, I also learned that the Carl 
Vinson itself was in safe harbor off the 
coast of California — not engaged in mili­
tary maneuvers in the Persian Gulf, as 
Eirene alleged.
While Howard conceded that it would be 
“a little unusual” for.the new system to be 
used exclusively on that one ship, I sug­
gested to Eirene at the time that it would be 
a tad imprudent to continue speculating 
about the extent and nature of the CAT 
system’s role until more information came 
to light. Apparently he never told Bush, as 
she continues in her posting to attribute 
Pentagon Spokesperson Udivack [sic] as 
saying that “this command-control system 
was placed on every aircraft carrier in the 
Persian Gulf.”
What Bush et al. never learned was
By fabricating evidence, embellishing details, 
and ignoring contradictions they discredit both 
themselves and those who share their views.
something my grandfather taught me 
while building a soap box racer out of an 
orange crate, a few boards, and some old 
lawn mower wheels. He told me to make 
sure I planned ahead, got the right tools 
out for the job, took my time, and did 
everything one step at a time until I had 
produced a quality finished product.
As a headstrong 9-year-old boy, however, 
I was too impatient to heed his advice. 
Hastily assembling a makeshift vehicle, I 
pushed it to the top of the street and began 
my decent. It wasn’t until the turn at the 
bottom of the hill that I began to question 
the capability of my pulley-and-clothesline 
steering system.
These doubts were soon confirmed with 
a resounding whack as I struck the curb 
and vaulted into my neighbor’s garden. 
Lying face down amid the carrots and leaf 
lettuce I realized too late the wisdom of my 
grandfather’s words.
As I grew older I realized that these 
basic principles of planning ahead, using 
the right tools, taking your time, and 
working step by step are keys to life — 
whether you’re building a soapbox racer, a 
relationship, a career, or an argument. I 
have a feeling if Ms. Bush were construct­
ing soapbox racers instead of arguments, 
she’d hit quite a few curbs.
What bothers me the most is the dam­
age that such half-baked arguments do. 
On a smaller scale, Bush et al. have done 
to the cause of freeing the University envi­
ronment from the influence of partisan 
sponsorship, what the Reverend (I use the 
term lightly) Al Sharpton did to the cause 
of racial equality when he invented the 
Tawana Brawley incident.
By fabricating evidence, embellishing de­
tails, and ignoring contradictions they dis­
credit both themselves, and those who share 
their views. Even the noblest intentions 
are impotent when they not backed up by 
sound and credible information.
I just can’t understand why Miss Bush 
didn’t get her facts straight about the 
system, let alone the source.
After all, with three people spending all 
their time in the lobby of Wean Hall for 
thirty days, you’d think they’d have an 
opportunity to compare notes at some point.
I’d like to know what they’ve been doing 
down there all those late nights that they 
didn’t have time to talk.
On second thought, it might be better in 
this case to follow Ms. Bush’s philosophy; 
ignorance is bliss.
Randy Udavcak is a junior professional 
writing / applied history major who designs 
soapbox racers and missile systems in his 
spare time.
Attention Art Students!
Snttua Rc Cou lRCg fRCo IUP
3
The College of Fine Arts is offering two undergraduate and one gradu­
ate ceramics courses at the Pittsburgh Center for the Arts. Beginning 
July 16 and ending August 15, these intensive five-week workshops will 
be offered five days a week from 9:30 am to noon, with labs scheduled 
from 1 pm to 3 pm-Monday through Thursday. (Registration deadline 
is Tuesday, July 9,1991.) These courses are transferrable.
i/ AR 214.501 Undergraduate Ceramics, 3 sh
*/ AR 452.501 Undergraduate Advanced Ceramics, 3 sh
\/ AR 640.501 Graduate Ceramics, 3 sh
To TartnNaew sEddi
Indiana University of Pennsylvania 
The School of Continuing Education 
4j2bB57r2292
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon’s Student Newspaper 
Since 1906
Acting Editor-in-Chief ...Beth A. Moses
News Editor........................David Ladek
Forum Editor..................M. K. Rodgers
Sports Editor............................Alim Ray
Features Editor...................A.J. Durazzl
Diversions Editor........Stephen Gllcker
Calendar Editor ...Samantha Kossman
Magazine Editor...............Alison Green
Dossier Literary Editor.....Jack Silbert
Dossier Design Editor ....Chris Shields
Art Editor.....................................John Lin
Photo Staff Manager.....Josh Freeman
Darkroom Manager.....Jennifer Adams
Production Manager....Jennifer Forbes
Copy Manager...................Held! Hoover
Systems Manager..............Adam Gross
Asst. News Editor...............Megan Dietz
Asst. Sports Editor...........Manlsh Modh
Asst. Features Editor........Trupti Patel
Asst. Diversions Editor.....Terri Kasch
Asst. Magazine Editor ..Azleena Salleh
Contributing Editors 
Susan Abrams, Kevin Barney, Mami 
Borek, Nicole Brockmann, Dawn 
Brosonski, William Burky, Grant 
Carmichael, Daniel de Grandpre, J. Carl 
Digman, Frank DiVito, Tad Dockstader, 
James B. Endres (Tokyo), Dustin Frazier, 
D.A. Henderson, Jennifer Kerstein, 
Dexter T. Kobayashi, Farron W. Levy, 
Jonathan Levy, Jason McDonald, Tho­
mas Nichols, Don Pickett, Howdy 
Pierce, Michael T. Rose, William C. 
Sabram, Ignatius Sasmita, Rhonda 
Strumlnger
Senior Staff 
Javier Grillo-Marxuach, Daniel Holland, 
Waseem Hussain, Rich Robinson, Mike 
Shapiro, Randy Udavcak, A. Franklin 
Wheeler
Staffwriters 
Laura Adams, Matt Adler, Suzanne 
Bartlett, Russ Bedel, Allan Bourdius, 
Ingrid Bromberg, Alison Carter, Rob 
Clayton, Michael Colalanne, Andrew 
Cosentino, Lori Demeter, Jill Denevisch, 
Dan Ferrell, Justine Dymond, Natalie 
Gesmond, Francis M. Goldsberry, 
Megan Greig, Sarah Hamilton, Colleen 
Kane, Tracy Kephart, Geetu Khanduja, 
Georgina Koon, Richard Kwiatkowskl, 
Ed Lee, Karen Logliscl, Dave Martin, 
Chin Oh, Shizuka Otake, Mark A. Roces, 
Charles Sabatos, Doug Scott, Alan 
Sloan, Richard Song, Jason Lee Smith, 
Kelly Sterling, Tina Urso, Heather 
Walker, Robert Wyner
Art
Eric Davis, Ken Flicksteln, Erik Jensen, 
Mike Kirscht, Chin Oh, Jeff Oplinger, 
Dave Pagani, Pauletta Pan, Naomi 
Pearson, Jason Peltz, Cesar Sanchez, 
Amy Weiner
Comics
Gregg Baimel, And! Briggs, Flint 
Crumpacher, Eric Davis, Danny Fahs, 
Chris Fria, Dan Gallagher, Dave Kapla, 
Andre Khromov, Doug Lamperskl, Neil 
McCarthy, Craig Mrusek, Paul Reed, 
R.J. Runas, Charles Sabatos, Mike 
Shapiro, Jack Silbert, Clifford Snider, 
Ray Strobel, K. Michael Thomas, Nick 
Wardigo
Photography/Darkroom 
Paul Alman, David Docktor, Dan Frey, 
Augustine Kuo, Jessica Miller, Guy 
Paquette
Production/Layout 
Rachel Bourn, Anne Campbell, Pankaj 
S. Mody, Rick Quinn, Kishor K. Rao, 
Derek Rubinoff, Tina Urso
Copy
Susan R. Baker, Catherine Bellanca, 
Heather Broud, Ellen Hendrickson, 
Lenna Kydes, Daniel Martinez, Erika 
Olson, Chanda Sanders
Business
Mark Kovscek, Chris McIntyre, Annie 
Park, Niloo Sobhani
.Iw .UuhUs r, Ibs ,IgmsCI Csp,.u.s2 81 au2Cz
sirs 9svv8C JCrds2,rIyT QI r, u pss5vy Csp,.uz
.s2 .gnvr,bsm ny ,IgmsCI, mg2rCi Ibs 1uvv uCm 
,.2rCi ,s7s,Is2,o uI C8 V8,I I8 7s7ns2, 81 
Ibs JCrds2,rIy V877gCrIyT QI r, .2rCIsm ny 
Ds,Is2C PsCC,yvduCru P2rCIrCio QCVT wgn,V2r.z
Ir8C, u2s udurvunvs 182 Ibs ,s7s,Is2 82 uVuz
ms7rV ysu2T lbs wnvhouvUmg u..su2rCi uI Ibs 
nsirCCrCi 81 Ibs 8.rCr8C ,sVIr8C u2s Ibs 811rz
Vruv 8.rCr8C 81 .Iw .UuhUs smrI82ruv n8u2mT 
Womidsg u2s Ibs 8.rCr8C, 81 rCmrdrmguv ugz
Ib82,T cwhhwug ho hIw 4nvhou u2s 8.rCr8C, 81 
ugIb82, pb8 u2s g,guvvyo ngI C8I CsVs,,u2rvyo 
7s7ns2, 81 Ibs JCrds2,rIy V877gCrIyT L vsIIs2 
rCIsCmsm 182 .gnvrVuIr8C 7g,I ns ,riCsm uCm 
rCVvgms Ibs p2rIs2W, umm2s,, uCm .b8Cs Cg7z
ns2 182 ds2r1rVuIr8CT Au7s, prvv ns prIbbsvm 
g.8C 2s:gs,IT .Iw .UuhUs 2s,s2ds, Ibs 2ribI I8 
V8CmsC,s 82 2s|sVI uCy vsIIs2 82 V8vg7CT a8.yz
2ribI ? ERRE ny .Iw .UuhUsT .Iw .UuhUs 
smrI82ruv n8u2m 2s,s2ds, Ibs 2ribI I8 prIbb8vm 
1287 .gnvrVuIr8C uCy V8.y rI mss7, gC1rI 182 
.gnvrVuIr8CT
!11rVs_ w5rn8 -’ ^OE(\ (~6f(EEE
9urvrCi umm2s,,_ lbs lu2IuC4U8k Eç4au7sivs 9svv8C
JCrds2,rIy4PrII,ng2ibo PL E-(E3f36R’
cgCmsm rC .u2I ny Ibs LVIrdrIrs, cssT
Lvv 2ribI, 2s,s2dsmT
Srn2u2y 81 a8Ci2s,, QwwA à_ ’6R’f3E’çT
c2s,b b87sums m8gib ,.gC 2ribI ns182s y8g2 sys,TTT
16” CHEESE PIZZA 
$2.99
!11s2 i88m wgCmuy Ib2g lbg2,muy
Original Hotdog Shop 
3901 Forbes Ave. Oakland
Phone 621 -0453 
Offer not good for delivery
Now available Friday and Saturday— 
One 16" Pizza only $4.49

---------------------------------------------------

10The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 29 April 1991
Rip-off provides evidence of dishonesty
Rich Robinson
This school has the strange 
ability to constantly perplex me. I 
was doing some homework for my 
Cost Accounting class the other 
day, and one of the problems was 
already solved, written into the 
book with a pen. .
Now, this wouldn’t be a strange 
thing, as the Bookstore does sell 
used books. But, I looked at the 
binding and the price tag, and 
there was no “USED” stamp any­
where. .
In other words, I paid for a new 
book.
Now, I don’t know about you, 
but when I pay for a new book, I 
expect to be getting a new book, 
hot off the press and never opened 
before. A book that has never had
its pages soiled by human hands, 
and one that has a binding as stiff 
as a piece of steel.
I expect all this because I am 
paying over $50 for one book that 
I’ll use for only one semester. 
Three months out of my entire life 
is the only time I expect to use 
this book, and I am going to get 
my money’s worth out of it. Be 
truthful — who wants a Cost Ac­
counting book? Maybe the Norton 
Guides to Literature or Strunk 
and White, but not a Cost Ac­
counting book.
Before I bought this outra­
geously priced textbook, though, 
I dug through the pile of books in 
the Bookstore to find a used one. 
I wanted a used one not because it 
had answers in it — those an­
swers were most likely wrong.
I wanted a used one because it 
costs less.
The bookstore has a policy of 
buying back books and then put­
Before I bought this outrageously priced textbook, 
though, I dug through the pile of books in the Bookstore 
to find a used one. I wanted a used one not because it 
had answers in it — those answers were most likely 
wrong. I wanted a used one because it costs less.
ting them back on sale for a re­
duced price. You can tell these 
used books from new ones be­
cause of two things.
First, the price tag is a different 
color and is marked “USED.” 
Then, on the edge of the pages, 
they stamp a big red “USED.” I 
find the whole process very fair 
and thoughtful.
Now, here is where my problem 
began. I paid full price for a used 
book.
Meanwhile, the book was 
marked new, not having the big
red stamp or the different type of 
price tag.
This meant that the bookstore 
sold this book once for full price to 
someone else before me. Then they 
bought it back at their usual offer 
of “five cents for a book in perfect 
condition.” Then, they looked at it 
and decided they could pass it off 
to me at full price instead of re­
ducing it.
They intentionally sold me a 
used book at the price of a new 
one.
Hell, they could have done that
with the same book a few times 
already.
Who opens up their Cost Ac­
counting book, anyway, except to 
do the homework and study for a 
test?
That means it doesn’t get that 
damaged on the outside. The in­
side, meanwhile, has been all 
marked up with highlighting and 
pen.
The bookstore all this time is 
advertising all the great deals it 
gets for students, like their 15% 
off deal.
Meanwhile, they are screwing 
the students when they buy the 
books back for 10% of the original 
value, and now I find ou^ they’re 
screwing us when we buy sup­
posedly new books.
They must make over 300% 
profit on selling used books as 
new!
Students shouldn’t come to 
CMU to get an education in engi­
neering, business, English, or the 
arts. They should come here to 
learn the art of being a shyster.
It seems that is all the school 
officials are good at, at least. 
Raising tuition, raising leases, 
and even passing off old books as 
new.
Maybe they won’t tear down 
Skibo. They’ll just rename it and 
convince everyone it’s a different 
building.
Rich Robinson is a junior in­
dustrial management major.
Outgoing president offers thoughts, hopes
Outgoing Student Government presi­
dent Kishore Rao offers the campus 
community some thoughts on his presi­
dency and the state of the University as 
he leaves office.
Debates, campaigns, elections.
What’s all the fuss about? What does 
the President of the Student Govern­
ment do anyway?
Well, as a matter of fact, quite a bit.
Some of his/her work may be highly 
visible and well-publicized such as the 
recent creation of the fifth year scholars 
program. This program, just a Student 
Government president proposal as of last 
July, is a living testament to the ability 
of students to change Carnegie Mellon 
and the willingness of the Mehrabian 
administration to work with students to 
change it for the better.
Although the program may be small in 
its impact upon the entire student 
population, it clearly marks the begin­
ning of a potentially promising new em­
phasis on undergraduates and under­
graduate education.
With Mehrabian as president, Paul 
Christiano as the new provost, and 
Michael Murphy as dean of students, a 
wonderful opportunity — a student-re­
sponsive administration — is present­
ing itself.
The President of the Student Govern­
ment has special access to these indi­
viduals.
It is imperative that s/he establish a 
rapport with them so that this unique 
opportunity can be capitalized upon by 
students.
But unlike the fifth year scholars Pro­
gram mentioned above, most of the efforts 
of the president of Student Government 
are behind the scenes. These “behind the
scenes” efforts involve first the creation 
of a relationship with the administration 
characterized by trust — not confronta­
tion — and then the subsequent lobby­
ing of administrators on behalf of stu­
dents. Trust and mutual respect are pre­
requisites for a successful and productive 
Student Government-Administration 
relationship.
Because much of my work has been 
“behind the scenes,” the student body 
may not be aware that my team and I 
have also been working on the same 
issues they are.
Hopefully Hyun Shin, my successor, 
will do a better job of keep-ing you in 
touch with his behind-the- scenes efforts.
Take for instance, the recent difficul­
ties with the Shuttle and Escort Ser­
vices. After students collected signatures 
and wrote letters, the President’s Stu­
dent Advisory Council — PSAC — and 
the Vice President’s Student Advisory 
Council —VPSAC — raised these issues 
with the senior administration.
Make no mistake, those students who 
organized the grass-roots campaign de­
serve all the credit for the improvement 
in vehicles that you will see at the begin­
ning of the next school year.
However, PSAC and students, like 
Ross Comer, who serve on it did play a 
part in winning the commitment from 
Warner Hall to actually resolve the situ­
ation.
PSAC also raised the issue of prices in 
the auxiliary services: the bookstore, the 
other retail services, and dining. Presi­
dent Mehrabian has informed us that 
the University is trying to centralize 
many of its purchasing functions and 
perhaps can realize some volume dis­
counts that can be passed on to students. 
He is aware of our concerns but students
The timing is right for sweeping change at Carnegie Mellon. A new 
administration filled with responsive and open-minded individuals is 
almost in place. I strongly urge each and everyone of you to get in­
volved either in the grass-roots rallying; the conference room discus- 
sions, or both.______________________________________________________
must follow-up.
PSAC and VPSAC both raised the plight 
of club sports and their difficulties in ob­
taining funding.
Although we have yet to receive a 
commitment for increased support, 
President Mehrabian and VP’s Keating 
and Elliott are acutely aware of the 
situation. Continued lobbying is prob­
ably necessary.
VPSAC has also raised the issues of 
residence life and fraternity housing. Eric 
Hamilton, former president of the Student 
Dormitory Council, and Otis Ginsburg, 
former president of the Inter-Fraternity 
Council, were both active in the discus­
sions. VPSAC’s goal was to assist SDC 
and the IFC in their efforts by showing its 
support, augmentingtheirlobbyingefforts, 
and asking more questions.
After continued complaints from a 
number of student organization leaders 
and PSAC, Dean of Student Affairs 
Michael Murphy announced his willing­
ness to hear requests for financial assis­
tance from organizations that were hav­
ing difficulty covering Security expenses 
for event programming.
Hyun Shin, through VPSAC, began a 
program that involves current students 
assisting the Admissions Office in re­
cruiting incoming freshmen.
If all goes well, the program could 
eventually evolve into one that allows
student organizations to identify and 
target potential members before they 
even matriculate at Carnegie Mellon and 
assist the Admissions office in recruiting 
them. This activity-based recruiting 
would benefit not only the University 
but also student extracurricular activi­
ties.
Mike Ewedosh has led the effort to 
insure that University Planning is aware 
of student concerns as it develops plans 
for the University Center. Chris Neigh­
bor and Erik Larson have also been ac­
tively involved.
Lisa Mathis has been involved in 
similar discussions surrounding the 
proposed Performing Arts Center. 
Ewedosh has also been actively lobbying 
administrators and faculty members to 
form a University Task Force to examine 
advising, academic and otherwise, at 
Carnegie Mellon.
I must reiterate that I don’t mean to 
imply that the Student Government 
President, his/her team, PSAC or VPSAC 
are or will ever be directly responsible 
for revolutionary changes or historic 
accomplishment, but rather that they do 
and will continue to play a key part in 
having Warner Hall confront and deal 
with a number of pressing concerns.
After all, it takes a truly united and 
sustained student effort coupled with 
Administration understanding and com­
mitment to effect change.
This “united and sustained student 
effort” requires students to write letters, 
collect signatures and rally other stu­
dents. It also requires students to en­
gage faculty and administrators in a 
constructive dialogue.
The president of the Student Gov­
ernment is in the ideal position to open 
and maintain these constructive dia­
logues. Don’t underestimate the im­
portance of these dialogues or over­
look the fact that they have been oc­
curring.
The timing is right for sweeping 
change at Carnegie Mellon. A new 
administration filled with responsive 
and open-minded individuals is almost 
in place.
I strongly urge each and everyone of 
you to get involved either in the grass­
roots rallying, the conference room 
discussions, or both.
Throughout the change process, the 
student body and its President must 
be aggressive yet patient, persistent 
yet cooperative, and visionary while 
having enough good judgement to know 
when and what to compromise.
The bottom fine is that we can now 
begin to make a major difference. To 
believe otherwise would be to sell Carn­
egie Mellon, its future, and its students 
short.
President-elect submits plans
Hyun B. Shin, president-elect of 
Student Government, addresses 
the following open letter to the 
campus community concerning 
his election and his plans for his 
time in office:
I would like to take this oppor­
tunity to thank the campus for 
their vote of confidence and sup­
port.
As I have indicated during the 
campaign, there are four goals that 
I have set for my presidency. They 
are as follows:
•Student Mentor Program: 
This will match incoming fresh­
men with interested sophomores 
and juniors from the same colleges 
sharing similar interests.
This program will offer an at­
tractive opportunity for student 
involvement and student interac­
tion.
In addition, this will allow those 
sophomore and junior mentors to 
lend guidance to freshmen dur­
ing the most critical period of 
their college years.
• Faculty-Student Open House: 
This will provide students with 
opportunities to find out more 
about different colleges and to 
get to know professors more in­
formally.
This will hopefully result in 
more comfortable interaction be­
I am in the process of forming the Student Government 
President’s Steering Committee. This committee will 
consist of students who will work closely with me to 
achieve the four goals stated above.... I am sure this 
extra involvement will be time well spent.
tween faculty members and stu­
dents.
•Departmental Information 
Week: I am proposing this pro­
gram as a starting point for inter­
disciplinary education.
Every February, each depart­
ment will be invited to set up a 
booth at a convenient place for 
students to access information 
about their departments.
Throughout the week, a series 
of presentations featuring pro­
fessors, graduate students, and 
professionals from various fields 
of study will provide more de­
tailed information.
This will enable students un­
sure of their major to explore other 
options, while enabling students 
certain of their major to learn more 
about their fields of study.
•Monthly Discussion Forum: 
One ofthe most important aspects 
of college education is the oppor­
tunity to engage in constructive
discussion.
I would like to create a monthly 
discussion forum where students 
can express their views on various 
issues affecting the student body.
A topic will be chosen to be dis­
cussed by faculty, staff, students, 
and the administration at each 
forum. This will present an oppor­
tunity to learn more about various 
issues and how different groups 
perceive those issues.
In order to achieve these goals, 
I need the cooperation and assis­
tance of the student body.
Therefore, throughout the year, 
I will be regularly writing letters 
to The Tartan, the Student Union, 
WRCT, and all student organiza­
tions to keep the campus commu­
nity more informed.
I will also be open to any 
student’s comment — in fact, I 
want to hear their suggestions and 
concerns.
So I urge students to either con­
tact me via campus mail at Stu­
dent Senate, call me at X5389, or 
just stop me if they see me to dis­
cuss various issues.
In addition, I am in the process of 
forming the Student Government 
President’s Steering Committee.
This committee will consist of 
students who will work closely 
with me to achieve the four goals 
stated above.
All students interested should 
contact me as soon as possible at 
x5389.
Finally, I strongly encourage 
all students to get more involved, 
whether it be going to a sports 
event, attending a lecture, or join­
ing a student organization.
I am sure this extra involve­
ment will be time well spent.
Once again, I would like to thank 
the campus. I look forward to 
making next year a great year!
Good luck on finals, and I hope 
everyone enjoys the summer.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 29 April 199111
3ggiw oH uUPw UPPmvwg ho wpwuLoswM dUmw ou HwdUmw
Ingrid Bromberg 
Justine Dymond
Carnival is a time for CMU stu­
dents to relax and have fun in the 
midst of a work-intensive school 
year. The one drawback to this 
time is that while people let go 
they also lose control. Heavy 
drinking and drug use occurs 
during the . weekend which may 
impair people’s judgment. Most 
rapes that are committed on col­
lege campuses are alcohol- or 
drug-related.
In order to prevent rapes dur­
ing Carnival, Action Against Rape 
worked with eight fraternities 
handing out flyers about date 
rape, which does occur at CMU, 
despite what official crime report 
statistics published by the Uni­
versity may lead us to believe.
The members of Action Against 
Rape were excited about the posi­
tive response we received from the 
fraternities. The plans for the event 
were made at the last minute and 
we hadn’t expected as much coop­
eration as we received. However, 
once eight fraternities agreed to 
sponsor the flyers we jumped to 
the conclusion too quickly that 
people at Carnival would also be as 
supportive as the fraternities were. 
This was not the case. Even though 
the subject of rape has been dis­
cussed in the newspapers, in 
classes, by CMU administrators, 
and in student organizations, most 
students panicked when presented 
with the flyers on the Friday night 
of Carnival. Some crumpled them 
up, others threw them on the 
ground, still others came up with 
elaborate excuses for not taking 
the flyers. One alumnus showed us 
his wedding ring and proclaimed 
that since he was married he was 
safe. We’re not sure yet what he’s 
safe from. One student took a flyer 
and, having glanced at the words
“Date Rape,” said that he had a 
steady girlfriend and tried to return 
the flyer. These last two responses 
were quite moderate in compari­
son to other reactions which bor­
dered on the violent. One member 
of ATO took a stack of flyers and 
threw it into the street. Nonethe­
less, all of these responses reflect 
the misconceptions much of the 
CMU community has about date 
rape.
Most men will not say that they 
have raped someone, but when 
quizzed about their behavior, they 
will say they have forced a woman 
to have sex with them.
Some of these same men say 
they are disgusted with the idea 
that a man would rape a woman 
because they are not aware that 
rape can and does occur among 
acquaintances and even among 
people who have had previous 
sexual contact with each other.
The women who refused to take 
flyers that Friday night were not 
violent or vocal about it like the 
men. Some would not even look at
Most men will not say that they have 
raped someone, but when quizzed about 
their behavior,; they will say they have 
forced a woman to have sex with them.
us or the flyers, trying to avoid 
the issue entirely.
This sort of silence about rape, 
and the refusal even to consider 
it, seems more insidious than the 
emotional reactions of men, be­
cause women are the ones who 
should most profit by rape educa­
tion. Women who choose to re­
main ignorant of what rape is 
also contribute to the confusion 
surrounding rape and cut them­
selves and others off from recov­
ery from an assault. This silence 
is a result of embarrassment and 
shame, no doubt, and under­
standably so. Rape carries a 
stigma for the victim, unlike other 
crimes. This stigma forces women 
and men who have been raped to
deny it, not to prosecute, and, 
ultimately, to continue the whole 
circle of taboo on the subject. Ac­
tion Against Rape was trying to 
break this silence on that Friday 
night. We also wanted to make 
people aware that rape is not just 
a women’s issue, or even just an 
issue for a small organization like 
Action Against Rape. It is 
everyone’s issue. Taking a flyer 
does not mean you are a rapist 
but it does educate you against 
becoming one or letting others 
rape. Why wouldn’t we feel the 
same way about ahow-to-prevent- 
car-theft flyer?
Rape is implicitly accepted in 
our society, as evidenced by the 
fact that so few rapists are pun­
ished although they admit to en­
gaging in behavior defined by the 
law as rape. A woman who is 
aware of what rape is can pros­
ecute the rapist, can make herself 
feel better by getting help, and 
can realize that what happened 
to her is not her fault.
The most we can hope for as a 
result of the actions on the Friday 
night of Carnival is that at least 
one rape was prevented, that a 
few more people are aware, and 
that it will open a little space to 
continue to prevent rapes at CMU. 
On behalf of Action Against Rape, 
we would like to thank the frater­
nities that agreed to work with us 
to educate the campus against 
rape during Carnival weekend, 
and hope that this event will ini­
tiate discussion among those fra­
ternities which didn’t participate 
and lead to their involvement in 
the future.
Ingrid Bromberg is a senior art 
major, and Justine Dymond is a 
junior in H&SS.
Letters to the Editor
LETTERS, from page 8
compliment them on certain menu items 
so that they could be served more fre­
quently. A more suitable comment by Pierce 
could have been “I wish that the food 
committee would make more of an effort to 
publicize their presence on campus” in­
stead of the derogatory comment he used. 
His comments only serve to decrease stu­
dent interest in food committee activities. 
We understand that Pierce and others 
have gripes about Dining Service. If you 
don’t know much about SDC but have 
enough patience to fill out a dining service 
survey, we will read your comments and 
discuss them at the meetings. Usually 
when CMDS doesn’t act upon comments 
made known to them at a meeting, we ask 
them about it at the next meeting. One of 
our committee members showed us these 
surveys. Maybe The Tartan could help us 
¦out by having a small article on food com­
mittee meetings once or twice a month 
since food is such an important issue for 
students. We will try to get our meeting 
times published in The Tartan’s an­
nouncements section next year. In some 
issues of The Tartan, one can find Erick’s 
phone number and comments by him about 
food meetings. If no one called him, that’s 
not our problem. Next year,we will put up
Food Committee table at the cafeterias 
on certain days to get student input. We 
also welcome participation on the 
assocs.sdc.food bboard.
So before Pierce made such strong com­
ments, he should have taken some time to 
give us a call and ask us what was going on.
It’s not hard to call SDC and ask some­
one there for the food chairperson’s phone 
number. By the way, we did discuss the 
feasibility of Pierce’s suggestions. Pierce 
can contact us about it.
Pravin Ratnam 
Junior, ECE 
Erick Naka-Mizrahi 
Senior, Psychology
Carnival chair extends 
recognition, praise
Editor:
I am pleased with The 
Tartan’s coverage of 
Carnival and applaud 
the special section dedi­
cated to this annual cel­
ebration.
on
cwhhwu ho 
hIw 4nvhou
However, there were three people omit­
ted from the profiles that I feel should be 
commended for their efforts. The first is 
Phillip “Goose” Marino, the security chair­
man for Carnival. He was responsible for 
procuring and organizing our radios so 
that members of the committee could talk 
to one another. He was also in charge of the 
security monitors who monitored the 
Midway, Rides, and Tent areas during the 
burs that Carnival was open. The second 
Person that should be recognized is Justin 
Pizzella, who was the entertainment 
chairman. He was responsible for arrang- 
Wgmany of the acts that performed under 
the tent and at the comerstage. I feel the 
variety of entertainment offered provided 
enjoyment for everyone. The third person 
that should be included is Bill Mangan, 
special events supervisor in Physical Plant. 
He was present every day, including Sat­
urday and Sunday, to deal with power, 
'vater, and grounds issues that we, as 
students, could not resolve. All of these 
People played an integral part in the op­
eration of Carnival and deserve recogni­
tion. I would also like to thank all the 
members of the Spring Carnival Com­
mittee, who include: Meg Veily, Midway; 
Cathy Bellanca, Assistantt Midway; Mike 
Holling, Power; Mark Yeck, Assistant 
Power; Phillip Marino, Security; Lance 
Wyatt, Assistant Security; Michael 
Ewedosh, Rides; Mark Musolino, Assis­
tant Rides; Justin Pizzella, Entertain­
ment; Brian Sanders, Assistant Enter­
tainment; Frank DiVito, Special Events; 
Stephanie Horwitz, Assistant Special 
Events; Joshua Lynn and Brian Papa, 
Technical Production; Sara Whittaker, 
Pyrotechnics; Cheryl Shapiro, Assistant 
Pyrotechnics; Michael Schwartz, SDC 
Tent; Meri Tyler, Entranceway; Don 
Brinker, Assistant Entranceway; Jenni 
Severa, Publicity; Christopher Smith, 
Assistant Chair; Adam Goldsmith, Ad­
visor. Thank you.
Mark Patrick
Senior, Mathematics
1991 Spring Carnival chair
Article mistakes idea of 
ASA’s booth game
Editor:
The Tartan forgot to 
recognize the other 
award for Spring Car- cwhhwu ho
03
3,mmau mU hIw 4nvhou03
03
cwhhwu ho 
hIw 4nvhou
ASA’s booth exemplified 
Chinese architecture
Editor:
The ASA has taken 
as one of its goals the 
expansion of our fel­
low students’ knowl­
edge of Asian history.
How far we are from achieving this goal 
was pointed out in Colleen Kane’s article 
in The Tartan [“Pioneer’s Dr. Seuss Shines 
in Independents,” 4/22]. In the article she 
referred to our booth as a “Japanese 
house.” This may seem to be an accurate 
representation of our booth and therein 
lies the problem. Simply, the Emperor of 
China never lived in a Japanese house. 
Nor was the architecture of our booth 
based on Japanese domestic architecture. 
Our booth was based on the Imperial 
architecture of the Forbidden City in 
China. Our research included careful 
study of the Hall of Harmony as seen in 
the movie The Last Emperor, filmedin the 
Forbidden City. Additional research for 
roof detailing was from Christopher 
Hibbert’s book The Emperors of China. 
The red enamel wood panel architecture 
that we emulated is perhaps the furthest 
from Japanese domestic architecture that 
one could get. Japanese houses are of 
lightly stained or untreated wood with 
rice paper panels and are quite reserved 
in appearance. At least two Chinese visi­
tors to the booth recognized not only that 
it was Chinese but they identified the 
dynasty it was from. The gilded and 
enameled architecture of Imperial China 
and our booth should hardly be confused 
with the restrained architecture of Japa­
nese houses. Yet, in Kane’s article it was. 
Perhaps ASA’s efforts at educating the 
campus about Asian culture and history 
have not been far-reaching enough. Maybe 
one reporter’s preconceptions about Asian 
architecture caused inaccurate reporting. 
Or it could just be a lack of interest in 
research by The Tartan staff. A few ques­
tions asked of the booth operators would 
have given a more accurate representa­
tion of the Chinese history and architec­
ture that ASA made available to every 
Carnival-goer this year.
Michael Kirscht 
4th year, Architecture
nival: Best Opinion of E^jtoiT
an Organization’s 
Booth. This award goes out to Colleen 
Kane about her article on the Asian Stu­
dents Association’s booth, “The Last Em­
peror.” Here is a quote from the booth 
article [“Pioneers’ Dr. Seuss shines in in­
dependents,” 4/22] in The Tartan: “Though 
based on the book, it didn’t exactly follow 
it. The game attempted to reinstate the 
emperor, whereas the book left the em­
peror a civilian.”
In From Emperor to Citizen, the em- 
p eror is reinstated before finally becoming 
a citizen. Your description, however, con­
tradicts what is stated in the book. Since 
your article was the only article that made 
mention of our booth, it is the only source 
that readers can rely on. Correct informa­
tion to the public is critical in giving the 
public a sense of what ASA is all about. 
Your twisted paraphrasing of Julius’ in­
formation about ASA’s booth makes the 
efforts of our organization towards the 
Spring Carnival Booth competition 
seemingly futile. On the other hand, I can 
also see what confused you to write about 
what you did. You mentioned a quote from 
the president of ASA, Julius Pulmano, 
while at the time, you had no idea what his 
position was in terms of ASA: “We’re just 
trying to bring him back to power for fun.”
What Julius is trying to imply is that 
the reinstating of the emperor in the 
early 1900’s was not an act of amusement 
at all. ASA took this idea and converted 
it into a game which everyone could 
enjoy. Making a game enjoyable does not 
mean we fabricated it. We feel that you 
took it upon yourself to twist his quote 
around and infer that we made up the 
whole idea of our game, consequently 
undermining the integrity of our booth. 
And even if we did put in a few of our own 
ideas, does that give you the right to 
point it out for everyone to read?! I 
thought the job of a knowledgeable writer 
was to accurately state the information 
of the topic he/she was assigned to, and 
not bring his/her own biased opinion into 
an article for everyone to see.
I really do not understand what you 
are trying to do. I read the descriptions of 
other independent organizations and you 
fail to provide your opinion about their 
booths. I can easily point out imperfec­
tions of other booths towards the works 
of literature they attempted to convey, 
but who cares? The point is you felt the 
need to negatively pass judgment on our 
booth without doing it for other organi­
zations. Why this is so makes ASA won­
der. Julius’ last wish was for you to 
convey this unfavorable idea of ASA’s 
booth.
In short, ASA took offense with your 
description of our booth. If you would 
like to criticize our booth please confront 
us and don’t write it down in a public 
newspaper. A little research wouldn’t 
hurt either.
Finally, “The Last Emperor” is of Chi­
nese background, not Japanese. Another 
point of information: Japan still has an 
emperor.
Hendrik J. Kiamzon 
Sophomore, Industrial Management
WRCT provides services, 
not problems, at Carnival
Editor:
I think that you were 
a bit unfair in one of 
your editorials last 
week [“Chalk up an­
other victory for Car-
cwhhwu ho 
hIw 4nvhou
nival,” 4/22]. The contract that WRCT 
signed with the Carnival committee al­
lowed for us to “provide even coverage of 
the Midway.” This was so that we could 
provide entertainment for the Midway, 
as well as provide a PA system for the 
broadcast of important announcements. 
I talked with those responsible for the 
Midway to insure that they understood 
that we would be playing music loudly, as 
we have for the past several years. It is 
unfortunate that our circumstances re­
quired having our truck near Skibo, 
however, Scotch ‘N’ Soda isn’t stupid. 
Our truck has been next to Skibo for 
many years. Our truck must be located 
near Skibo so that we may have ready 
access to our studio and so that we can 
easily leave for and return from our cov­
erage of buggy. This year we placed our 
speakers on the other side of the truck 
from Skibo rather than on top of it. This 
cut. down on a great deal of the volume 
reaching the Ballroom. Also, I was there 
when Scotch ‘N’ Soda asked us to turn it 
down on Thursday. We did and they did 
not complain again. We cannot be ex­
pected to close down for Scotch ‘N’ Soda 
— that is unreasonable. I must point out 
that WRCT has nothing against Scotch 
*N’ Soda —we have worked with them 
before on radio plays and such. It is 
simply unfortunate that our mutual cir­
cumstances require us to have conflict- 
inginterests during Carnival. I will point 
out that this will continue to happen at 
all future Carnivals until the new Uni­
versity Center is built. To say anything 
else would be a lie.
There is another reason why I am writing 
today. This editorial has just pointed out 
another case where The Tartan has been 
unfair to WRCT. I don’t know what anti- 
WRCT bias there is across the hall, but 
there certainly seems to be some. WRCT is 
continually ignored in your coverage, and 
often unfairly accused. No mention was 
made of Winterblast II, a free concert 
which drew in total over 250 people. When 
I talked to Tartan staff, they said they 
were “unaware,” even though we ran an 
ad in The Tartan and there was a poster on 
The Tartan’s office wall. Only small refer­
ence was made to WRCTs coverage of the 
buggy races. Jack Kirr, Sports Director, 
the rest of the sports staff, and the engi­
neering staffs were at the buggy course 
Friday and Saturday at 4 am to begin 
setting up. Then they covered the races, 
providing the audio for the television 
broadcasts that the Radio Club produced. 
They also provided the only means many 
organizations had to know how the races 
were going. When the races were finished 
they had to take the truck back to the 
midway and prepare it for broadcasting. 
WRCT covers Buggy as a service to the 
campus. It would certainly be much easier 
for us to ignore that part of Carnival. I 
wouldn’t even mention this unless I 
thought it was just another case of The 
Tartan ignoring the other media on cam­
pus.
Kevin Goldsmith 
Junior, Mathematics
Confederate flag offends, 
angers Buggy-watcher
03
3uhmauhomIoAvmmhou
cwhhwu ho 
hIw 4nvhou
Editor:
I sit in sad repose as 
I put pen to paper 
concerning an issue 
which I find most 
deeply disturbing. I 
laugh at the irony of Alpha Tau Omega 
being awarded for “showing the true 
spirit” of Carnival; because it was this 
self-same group that had one of its 
pushers sporting none other than the 
Confederate flag. I remember the details 
quite distinctly—Friday, heat 16, Hill 2, 
tall, husky dude with blond hair. I re­
member the feeling of disgust I had, how 
I had this great urge to rip not only the 
flag, but his hair, off his head.
When I addressed one of the ATO 
brothers about this issue he said to me, 
“It’s all part of the Rebel Yell (their 
buggy) costume.”
So, ATO, what is it you’re trying to 
rebel against and exactly what is it that 
you’re trying to say?
Your response is most anxiously 
awaited. And “by whatever means nec­
essary,” I hope to make sure this never 
happens again.
Tara S. Haughton 
Sophomore, Chemistry
Student Senate offers 
response to editorial
03Editor:
In regards to last 
week’s editorial 
[“Senators do little to c9hh©m* ho 
battle apathy,” 4/22], the 
we, the Executive 
Committee of Student Senate, beg to 
differ with The Tartan’s position and 
hope to clarify some factual inconsisten­
cies mentioned in the editorial.
While. the Rules Committee began 
drafting the new Student Government 
Constitution in February, it was not of­
ficially presented to Senate for consider­
ation until April 3. At this time, the 
Constitution was automatically tabled 
for one week as required by Article 9 of 
the former Constitution; it was then 
decided to table it for an additional week, 
as the spring budget hearing was being 
held on April 10. On April 17, Senate 
first discussed the entire proposed Con­
stitution, not three separate amend­
ments, as stated in the editorial.
To address the individual commitment 
of Senators: While six members did leave 
early, three left proxy votes on the new 
Constitution: Senators Ikeda, Mueller, and 
Moran. In addition, we take offense at the 
suggestion that Senate has been poorly 
run and has been unproductive. This se­
mester Senate has successfully addressed 
many issues. In addition to adopting a 
new Constitution and By-laws, Senate 
allocated more money than ever before. 
Senate has recognized nine new organi­
zations for funded recognition, and many 
others for non-funded recognition. The 
Academic Affairs committee has worked 
to protect our University Free Time. 
Campus Affairs has submitted a major 
proposal to the administration concerning 
the renovation of our deteriorating gym 
facilities. Public Relations has been work­
ing as never before to publicize our events.
Please see LETTERS, page 12

---------------------------------------------------

12The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 29 April 1991
Joanna Downer
Sophomore
Chemistry
“Dining Service gets aThom — 
definitely.”
Elizabeth Rowlands 
Sophomore 
Political Science
“Carnival gets a Thistle. 
Dining Service gets a Thorn.”
£8,b c2ss7uC4 lu2IuC Pb8I8 wIu11 Manager 
Angus McCollum 
Freshman
Physics/Computer Science
“I'd give a Thistle to Presi­
dent Mehrabian for coming to 
Carnival and making a good 
showing.”
’ e4GS-zK
OPINION
Every year The Tartan Edi­
torial Board decides to give 
out Thistles and Thorns. 
Thistles go out to those persons 
and groups that did things 
that were beneficial to the 
campus community. Thorns go 
to those who have screwed up 
or done something that has 
hurt someone in some way. 
Who do you think deserves 
a Thistle or a Thorn?
Seth Abrams 
Freshman
Mechanical and Biomedical 
Engineering
“Thorn to the administration— 
Dining Service and Housing aren't 
all they’re cracked up to be, espe­
cially in the brochures and tours.”
Ann Youm 
Freshman
Graphics Communications 
Management
“I'd give a Thistle to Mr. 
Evans, my advisor, because he 
gave me a good recommenda­
tion on very short notice.”
Letters to the Editor
SMllMtwo 1287 .uis 11
The most obvious example of this success 
is this year’s spring elections. Over 21 
percent of the student body voted, the
- most in recent years and far superior to an 
_ average turnout. In the future, we hope to
¦ do even better.
Unfortunately, because of the inabil­
ity of The Tartan to responsibly cover the 
'meetings and actions of the Student 
. Government, students have not been 
•informed as to the progress we’ve made. 
Even when The Tartan attempted to 
cover Senate, the Editorial Board has 
obviously not bothered to read the ar- 
tides in their own paper — such as the 
. front-page story on Campus Affairs’ 
‘" proposal to improve gym facilities 
[“Senate presents report to administra­
tion,” 4/15]. When they did try to contact 
££us, quotes were taken out of context and 
« were used extremely selectively in order
¦ to promote unsubstantiated arguments. 
In the past The Tartan has used tape
; recorders to insure the accuracy of quotes, 
and we wonder why they have discon­
tinued this practice. If they need more 
money, we’d be more than happy to issue 
a special allocation for tape recorders.
Senate is moving in the right direction. 
We all feel a sense of accomplishment 
when looking back over the last semes­
ter. Senate has shed i^s apathetic image, 
Ü and we look forward to another produc- 
' i tive year after the strong spring election.
Executive Committee of Student 
Senate
Altmann addresses elec­
tions, possible problems
Editor:
The remarkably high 
vo ter turnout in the re­
cent Senate elections 
caps off a gratifying and 
¦productive term for 
Student Senate. We can thank Colin 
1 Crehan, Senate Public Relations chair, as
, Kd 0n
cwhhwu ho 
hIw 4nvhou
•'¦well as both campus newspapers and 
WRCT for excellent publicity. We can also 
' thank all the presidential candidates for 
running exciting campaigns.
However, the elections were also marred. 
The Mooney/Lawrence campaign resorted 
to physical intimidation, threats of physical 
violence, and aggressive destruction of 
"another campaign’s posters. All of this 
was witnessed and documented. Formal 
protests were lodged with the Election 
Board of A Phi Q, apparently to no avail.
Pat Mooney was apparently overheard
- to say “Did you see what those dykes wrote 
on the fence? I’ve never seen anything so
¦ funny. Did you see all those lesbian sym­
bols all over it?” in reference to a negative 
statement about his agenda that was 
painted on the fence.
1 • I advise H&SS and CIT to monitor their 
representatives closely.
Erik Altmann
Graduate student, Computer Science
Alumna addresses ques­
tion of feminism at CMU
Editor:
This is in response 
to all of the letters 
concerning my initial 
letter about the 
Women’s Center. I feel
on
cwhhwu ho 
hIw 4nvhou
that all of your letters failed to pinpoint 
what I was really saying and chose in­
stead to label me a homophobe and to 
force yet another boring endless attack 
on people who don’t agree with the 
Women’s Center and their activities. All 
of the responses I received were from 
people directly affiliated with the 
Women’s Center. Each and every re­
sponse misread and misinterpreted my 
letter completely. I never said that I 
thought feminists were lesbians and 
man-haters! I even opened my letter 
stating that I believed that women could 
achieve anything they wanted in life, 
and have heterosexual relationships. I 
then went on to say that I felt that the 
Women’s Center presented an image to 
me that said that feminists are lesbians 
and man-haters. Allow me to once again 
state this opinion.
The Women’s Center presents a 
negative, immature, stereotypical im­
age of feminist women to the campus and 
community. I formed this opinion by 
what I read in The Tartan, heard from 
other students, and saw on the Women’s 
Center’s front window. You should not 
be so quick to demand that I come to the 
Center to see for myself. The major way 
an organization develops followers is 
through the image it presents to society. 
If an organization develops a reputation 
fr? its diverse activities, than it must 
keep in mind that its image rests on 
that.The following instances were enough 
to keep me from wanting to inquire about 
the Center any further:
1) During Parents’ Weekend in the 
Fall 1990 semester, I noticed that the 
front window of the Women’s Center was 
completely covered with the word lesbian 
and synonyms for the word lesbian. Is 
that the best thing that you could come 
up with to put on your window to promote 
the Women’s Center on Parents’ Week­
end?
2) The last time I saw a posting for a 
movie at the Women’s Center, it was 
about lesbianism. Yet another time, I 
noticed that 3 out of 4 of your movie 
presentations were about lesbianism. 
Obviously, not every movie you show is 
about lesbians. I am not accusing you of 
this. Yet time and time again it is the 
type of movie you show. Is this the best 
you can find for feminist women to watch? 
What about all the movies that simply 
focus on women as heroes? What about 
Terminator, Alien and Aliens, and The 
Abyss? These movies were, by the way, 
produced by women.
3) You gleefully advertised an award 
called “the rocketboy award”. Everyone I 
spoke with understood that this was a 
monthly award given to the male indi­
vidual on campus that you found to be 
the biggest jerk. That is what other 
students understood and relayed to me. 
Is this kind of award a positive way to 
treat people? I found the rocket boy award 
to be childish, useless, and sexist.
4) Recently you made The Tartan for 
standing in front of fraternities and 
screaming “1,2,3,4...We won’t be your f- 
ing whore, 5,6,7,8...We would rather 
masturbate.” You screamed and yelled 
at both male and female students and 
carried profane signs about their “sexist 
shit.” Is this type of activity very con­
structive? Do you think that it helps to 
promote a positive view about women 
who want to succeed in a man’s world?
5) When I read your schedule of events 
for women’s history month, almost all of 
your events were scheduled for 16 days
out of the month. 25percent of that time 
frame was devoted to lesbianism and 
lesbian safe sex. 25 percent was devoted 
to survivors of rape. 25 percent was de­
voted to self defense — against who? 
Men, of course. Do 75 percent of your ef­
forts have to.be so negative and special­
ized? Is the lesbian population so high on 
this campus that it needs 25 percent of 
the schedule for sexual and psychologi­
cal counseling? The Center presents an 
image to me that says “women are vic­
tims and should be counseled.” You are 
hurting women when you portray us as 
victims. Many of your activities are so 
negative in their views of women that 
you literally live the stereotype which 
you profess isn’t true — that feminists 
are lesbians and man-haters. I am not 
homophobic. You are terribly mistaken. 
I would have less of a problem with the 
importance you place on lesbian activi­
ties if you would incorporate them into a 
more positive structure of events on your 
calendar.
As I stated in my first letter — which 
you conveniently ignored — the Women’s 
Center could do so much more for women 
if they concentrated their forces on doing 
what they talk so much about. To me, the 
real feminists out there are the ones who 
never have to say it. They are the female 
doctors, presidents, and producers, and 
the artists, musicians, writers and so on. 
These are the feminists that are helping to 
make women equals because they are out 
there working hard and proving them­
selves competent. Meanwhile you are back 
here yelling vulgar words and wasting 
your time on protests that people could 
care less about. Nobody in the professional 
world cares if you are a feminist: they care 
if you are valuable to them and qualified.
The''best example of this is in last 
month’s issue of Women in Engineering, 
available in Scaife Hall. It interviews 
around 20 women who have successful 
careers in engineering and highlights 
the biggest challenges they have faced in 
a traditional male-dominated field. All 
of them said that they were successful 
because they worked hard and proved 
themselves and that being female was 
not the biggest challenge they faced.
Can you objectively look at my ex­
amples and consider that maybe there 
are some qualities about your center 
that present women negatively? Isn’t it 
possible that some of your events are 
destructive against male-female rela­
tionships and promote irresponsible be­
haviors and attitudes? Are you really so 
wise about this situation that I am 
completely wrong — as is everyone else 
who poses opinions against the Center
— and you are completely right? Or are 
you going to conveniently ignore my key 
issues with yet another predictable let­
ter which incorrectly labels my views 
and fills the page with empty tired words?
Steffany Hannan 
Alumna, CFA
Sexism, discrimination 
run rampant at CMU
Editor: &
With presidents like 
that, who needs en­
emies? Our beloved cwhhwu ho 
former president Ri- the E(,jtor 
chard Uyert, has been 
accused of sexual misconduct. Of course, 
the University denies everything.
This case is full of irony. It is ironic 
that: the University didn’t institute a 
decent sexual harassment policy until 
Cy ert was out of office; CMU did not have 
a sexual assault and rape policy until the 
end of this semester; Cyert was spear­
heading a campaign for campus diversity 
when he was supposedly mauling and/or 
trying to fire a woman because she 
wouldn’t have sexual relations with him; 
all of the senior officials in theUniversity 
are men—perhaps now we know exactly 
why.
With the sexual harassment case on 
its hands, the University denies that 
anything happened in Cyert’s office be­
tween Cyert and Patricia Tanner on 
August 19,1972. How reassuring it is to 
the women of this campus to know that 
if they are harassed by someone in the 
upper levels of the administration, the 
University will probably say that the 
women are lying.
Where does the line get drawn? Suppose 
I get harassed by the dean of a college. Will 
theUniversity tell me I am lying? Suppose 
I get harassed by a vice president, will the 
University allow it because it doesn’t want 
the bad press? Suppose I get harassed, 
assaulted or raped by the president him­
self, will the University pay me an “undis­
closed amount” of money to keep my mouth 
shut? Will the University sacrifice its fe­
male faculty, students and staff for the 
sake of the reputation of its male adminis­
trators?
According to the article in The Tartan 
[“Lawsuit alleges sexual misconduct by 
Cyert,” 4/22], CMU is willing to do just 
that. The case was settled out of court for 
and “undisclosed amount” of money. Cyert 
maintains his innocence, as does the 
University. It is unbelievably offensive 
and insulting to all of the women of this 
campus for CMU to say in not so many 
words that Tanner made up sixteen years 
of harassment and discrimination. If, as 
Tanner states, she had to physically fight 
off Cyert’s advances, that’s more than 
harassment. That’s sexual assault. By 
Pennsylvania state law, an individual 
guilty of sexual assault, let alone sex and/ 
or age discrimination, goes to prison, 
university presidents included.
All of these individuals are rushing to 
Cyert’s defense — even Mehrabian: “I 
totally believe in his integrity and I cannot 
believe that such allegations could pos­
sibly be true.” What everyone seems to 
be forgetting is that men who assault, 
harass and rape women are all around 
us — they are fathers, brothers, friends, 
teachers, administrators and yes, they 
can even be university presidents.
It has started to become clear to me now. 
For seventeen years, Cyert was president 
of CMU. In that time, the fraternity sys­
tem became an integral part of this insti­
tution, and is still catered to by the ad­
ministration far more than any other or­
ganization on this campus. During those 
seventeen years, the male/female ratio 
improved only slightly. The number of 
female and/or minority professors hired 
did not rise by any significant amount. A 
female student has not given a graduation 
speech in the three years that I have been 
here. The number of tenured male profes­
sors is. far higher than the number of 
tenured female professors. This University 
is a sexist, racist, classist, and homophobic 
institution, and, as far as I can tell, it had 
a sexist, power-hungry individual at the 
helm for seventeen years. Of course, this is 
only my opinion.
Cyert is credited with raising CMU to
the status of the Ivy League. Great. But 
none of his achievements, no matter how 
amazing, can deny the fact that Tanner 
may have been sexually harassedby Cyert 
for sixteen years. None of his achieve­
ments can negate that possibility. For the 
University to deny the possibility that 
Tanner may be telling the truth, and that 
Cyert treated her like dirt for sixteen 
years, only further perpetuates the 
growing resentment ofthe administration 
and its policies on this campus. People are 
getting really angry. Some of my favorite 
professors are leaving CMU this year be­
cause the University demands they teach 
an unbelievable amount of courses every 
year so their departments can be more 
cost-effective. Certain brilliant female 
faculty have been asked to stay, but only if 
they accept demotions. Some professors 
who remain state that there are certain 
students who they will not teach because 
the political beliefs of the students are in 
opposition to their own. Students are 
dropping out or transferring left and right 
because they are sick of dealing with the 
crap this University deals out. CMU is 
screwing up, and I don’t know about 
anybody else, but I think it’s about time 
the camel’s back broke.
ThisUniversity treats women like dirt. 
Tanner’s case is only one of hundreds. 
The examples are everywhere — what’s 
the major event at Carnival? A race, 
where small women are put face-down in 
.metal cages and pushed around Frew 
Street. Not only does it happen, but it is 
encouraged, cheered on, and celebrated!
I am revolted by the back-talk in this 
University, the two-faced actions of ad­
ministrators. We have a revised sexual 
harassment policy, but CMU refuses to 
believe a woman who says that she was 
harassed at CMU for years. We have a 
new rape policy, but the administration 
still encourages people not to prosecute. 
Bill Elliott tried to put a band-aid on the 
problems of discrimination by writing a 
letter to The Tartan. Listen, up, Warner 
Hall, just because you institute a new 
policy or say you don’t approve of harass­
ment doesn’t mean you’ve solved the prob­
lem! If anything, the actions of CMU in 
Tanner’s case prove that all these new 
policies are merely an attempt to shut up 
pissed-off women.
Well, I’m pissed off. More than I think I 
ever have been before at this University. I 
want to have a sit-down strike in the 
President’s office until the University hires 
a dean of Women’s Issues, who sure as hell 
better be a liberal woman. I want a mi­
crophone set up in front of Warner Hall so 
every woman who has ever been harassed, 
assaulted, or raped at CMU can tell her 
story so the administration can’t help but 
hear. I want all students who have ever 
been discriminated against by this Uni­
versity to have a class walk-out. I want to 
wrap a banner two stories high around 
Warner Hall which reads uThis discrimi­
nates against women!” I am sick and tired 
of this University’s shit. And I am not the 
only one.
It’s time to move, people. It’s time to 
move. Let’s get our asses in gear and 
prove to this University that we will not 
be treated like meat that pays tuition 
anymore. Let’s show thisUniversity that 
it had better start listening to the stu­
dents of this campus, or it’s really going 
to have to worry about its reputation.
Elizabeth Cronise
Junior, Creative & Professional
Writing and French

---------------------------------------------------

Se-G.S
Men’s tennis buries Penn State
Lacrosse snags two at tournament
By MANISH MODH
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
The Carnegie Mellon men’s la­
crosse club walked away with a 
first-time tournament win at St. 
Vincent College yesterday. CMU 
blasted Washington and Jefferson 
12-3 in the first game and then 
made a come-from-behind win 
against Allegheny College 11-7 
in the second game.
In the goal tally for the first
game, senior co-captain Phil 
Kaplan scored three, senior John 
Seekings scored three, freshman 
Chris Wells scored three, gradu­
ate student Bayard Johnson 
scored two and assisted three, 
junior Steve Ramey scored one 
and assisted two, and freshman 
Guy Paquette assisted one. Se­
nior co-captain goal tender Peter 
Vonderlieth had 11 saves.
“We came out firing and scored 
in the first two minutes of the
game,” said junior head manager 
Cathy Flowers.
Carnegie Mellon also scored two 
more goals in the first quarter. 
However, Washington and 
Jefferson came back and scored 
two goals in the second quarter 
but could not overtake CMU as 
they scored another goal to make 
it 4-2 going into the second half.
Flowers said, “We completely 
dominated the third quarter with 
four goals.”
CMU then proceeded to score 
four more goals in the fourth quar­
ter while only allowing one more 
for Washington and Jefferson, 
thus making the final score 12-3.
In the goal tally for the second 
game, Seekings scored four and 
assisted three, Johnson scored 
three and assisted two, Kaplan 
scored two and assisted one, fresh­
man Sam Shannon scored one, 
junior Eric Stonesiefer scored one, 
and Ramey assisted one. Vonder­
lieth made 14 saves.
“They dominated the game 
early,” said Flowers.
Allegheny scored two goals in 
the first quarter but Seekings 
scored a last-minute goal.
“It was a team we should have 
crushed easily, but we were very 
tired after the first game,” said 
Kaplan.
CMU struggled to tie it at the 
end of the first half 4-4.
Please see LACROSSE, page 16DwsNg huUaf luwUfg gaIoom uw!UL uwaoun
By MANISH MODH
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
Carnegie Mellon men’s and 
women’s track hosted the Uni­
versity of Pittsburgh, Allegheny 
College, Robert Morris College, 
and Duquesne University at an 
invitational meet at Gesling Sta­
dium Saturday.
“The most outstanding event 
was the 4x100 relay, in which our 
team set a school record and quali­
fied for the national champion­
ship,” said men’s coach Gary 
Meckley. “However, we really had 
a good overall performance by 
everybody.”
Freshman Mark Marnich, 
freshman Brandon Woodard, 
sophomore Chris Maguire, and 
senior Jeff Illian ran the 4x100
"The most outstanding event was the 
4x100 relay. ”
____ — coach Gary Meckley
relay and won the event with a 
time of :42.
Woodard also came in first in 
the long jump with a distance of 
20' 2" and the triple jump with a 
distance of 41' 11 1/4". Sopho­
more Frank Desiderio came in 
third in the triple jump.
Carnegie Mellon then won the 
4x400 relay. Sophomore Sean 
Pempel, sophomore Bill Isaacs, 
senior Gary Harrison, and sopho­
more Brad Shapiro competed in 
that event.
Carnegie Mellon placed third
and fifth in the shotput with fr esh- 
man Roy Devine taking third 
place. Sophomore JasonLangtook 
second in the discus. Sophomore 
Jody James placed second in the 
pole vault.
“We really looked good in this 
meet,” said Meckley.
In steeplechase, sophomore 
Scott Phillips stole second place. 
Shapiro came in second in the 
1500-meter. Desiderio and fresh­
man Garrett Long placed first 
and second in the high hurdles, 
respectively.
Isaacs also took second in the 
400-meter. In the 400-meter in­
termediate, Pemple and sopho­
more Dave Nespoli placed first 
and third, respectively.
Illian and Marnich took second 
and third in the 100-meter. Illian 
also placed first in the 200-meter 
and Maguire took second. In the 
5000-meter, senior Tim Berger 
placed second and senior Dan 
Holland placed third.
“We pretty much dominated the 
meet even though all the teams 
there except for Allegheny and 
CMU were Division I teams,” said 
Meckley. “Since this was an invi­
tational meet, there was no offi­
cial scoring but I think we would 
have overwhelmingly won the 
meet. It was a very good team 
effort.”
Women’s track also did well in 
Saturday’s meet. Freshman 
Ersula Cosby set a school record 
in the triple jump with a distance 
of 33' 7". Freshman Mary Moore 
won the shotput. In the 400-meter, 
senior Lisa Schmidt took second 
place with a time of :61.3. Fresh­
man Jodi Piccolo took second in 
javelin with a distance of 94' 11“. 
Cosby also placed second in the 
high jump with a height of 4' 8".
“This was a nice opportunity for 
a meet at home in the great 
weather. There were a lot of spec­
tators, too,” said women’s coach 
Dario Danotello.
This was Carnegie Mellon’s last 
home meet of the season; it will 
participate in another meet at 
John Carroll University in Cleve­
land this week.
PRESS PASS
by Jason McDonald
3hNg lwws 
U LwUu ho 
uwdwdlwu
All things considered, it’s 
been a great year. In this year 
alone, I’ve seen more sports 
milestones than in the previous 
two years combined. So without 
further ado, I present my 
“Things I’m Glad I Was Here To 
See.”
•I got to go to the official and 
unofficial openings of Gesling 
Stadium, which is something 
very few people in the world can 
say. I just hope that someday, 
as an alumnus, I also get to 
show up for the opening of the 
new gym. Even better, I hope I 
make enough money that I can 
give the money to build it.
•I’m glad I was around to see 
the first national champion in 
school history. Unfortunately, 
“see” is a bit inaccurate; while 
Brian Zimmerman was swim­
ming his way into school his­
tory, I think I was watching 
Willy Lomax beat the living 
daylights out of ALF.
•With the completion of the 
East Campus project, intramu­
ral softball is back, although 
being on the receiving end of 
two (and tonight, possibly three) 
double-digit beatings has put 
the damper on my enthusiasm.
• On that note, I had my first 
chance to participate in intra­
mural athletics this year. 
Looking at the numbers I put 
up in three different sports, I 
should have probably waited a 
year. In fact, I was the anti-Bo 
Jackson — I was mediocre at 
everything. It was fun, though, 
even if I had an overwhelming 
impulse to hide in a cave at 
times.
•I got the chance to attend 
my first NCAA Division III 
playoff game, specifically the 
women’s basketball game at 
Susquehanna University. I 
would have brought back a 
souvenir, but in the battle 
between buying a t-shirt and 
eating for a week, common 
sense (and hunger) won out. 
Besides, celebrating any trip to 
Selinsgrove, Pennsylvania is a 
pretty silly idea.
•I saw Muhammad Ali in a 
restaurant when I was in 
Chicago with the soccer team 
last semester. It wasn’t as great 
as our encounter with the L.A. 
Lakers in St. Louis the previous 
year, but it was interesting. I 
still have his autograph.
•Speaking of celebrities, I 
personally set a benchmark by 
which all future Tartan sports 
articles will be judged. I am the 
only person in Tartan history to 
include a quote from a member 
of Congress (Sam Nunn) in a 
basketball article. I think that 
record should stand for a while.
•On a slightly more global 
level, I experienced the joy of 
watching the Pirates and 
Penguins win their divisions in 
the same school year. On the 
other hand, sandwiched in 
between was the Steelers’ loss 
to the Oilers sans Warren 
Moon, which knocked them out 
of the playoffs.
All of this makes me wonder 
what I could possibly hope to 
see next year in terms of an 
encore. I suppose an IM basket­
ball scoring average slightly 
higher than 2.5 points would be 
a good place to start.
Tartan contributing editor 
Jason McDonald is a junior IM 
major.
By ALIM RAY
Tartan Sports Editor
Carnegie Mellon’s men’s tennis 
team dominated its last match of 
the season at Penn State-Behrend 
8-1 Saturday. Out of the six 
singles matches and three doubles 
matches played against Penn 
State-Behrend, only two singles 
matches went to three sets.
However, the big story was 
CMU’s number one singles player 
sophomore Andrew Lee’s chance 
to qualify for the NCAA Division 
III National tournament. 
Rankings were released Wednes­
day and they do not reflect the 
University Athletic Association 
championships held last week­
end at Washington University. 
Lee defeated Jiva Datta from the 
University of Rochester, ranked 
#27 in the nation this weekend. 
The win will boost his ranking, 
already at 47th.
Lee, the third seed in the num­
ber one player bracket, won a
tight match against Keith Cheses 
of Washington University 3-6,6— 
3, 6-4 to begin the tournament. 
Lee then lost in the semifinals to 
second-seeded Steve Ivankovich 
from the University of Chicago, 
6-0, 6-1.
In the consolation match Lee 
defeated Datta in a see-saw battle 
6-4,1-6, 6-0 to take third place 
and help his chances at Nation­
als.
“During the second set my legs 
went cold. I got a little lazy,” Lee 
said. “The third set I played 
harder.”
Lee andfreshman Britton Trim­
mer defaulted their doubles match 
for seventh place because Lee had 
the important contest against 
Datta.
Freshman Alan Batlle also did 
well, placing fourth in the num­
ber four tournament. Batlle lost 
his first match to Ben Austen of 
the University of Rochester, 7-5, 
6-1. In the consolation bracket 
for fifth place Batlle wonhis match
handily against Joe Dea of Case 
Western Reserve, 6-1, 6—4.
In the match for fifth place, 
Battle lost a first set tiebreak to 
Paul Kim of New York Univer­
sity. He then came back to win 
the next to sets 6-3, 6—4.
Other outstanding men finish­
ers in the UAA were Batlle, who 
finished fifth in the tournament 
of number five players, and CMU’s
number two doubles team, con­
sisting of Batlle and freshman 
Mike Beaudry, finished fourth in 
the championship.
The women’s team was not at 
full strength since some of the 
team’s top players could not at­
tend due to prior engagements for 
Spring Carnival. Freshman 
Whitney Weber, SharynRotunno, 
and Caryn Van Dyke played in
the unfamiliar top three singles 
positions, respectively. The bot­
tom three spots were left vacant.
The men’s team placed seventh 
out of eight teams in one of the 
strongest Division III conferences 
in the nation with Emory Univer­
sity (ranked fifth) and Washing­
ton (ranked sixteenth). The 
women, who were weakened by 
lack of players, finished eighth.
£8,b c2ss7uC4lu2IuC Pb8I8 wIu11 9uCuis2 
FuwgIdUs Dvfw CwUinuL gmvawg hIw lUmm niuvsx PuUahvawT
|8,C 22ss7uC4 mUuhUs Asovo lhUu. DUsUxwu 
FuwgIdUs ’mUs CUhmmw uwUaIwg IvxI Hou U lodl vs U PuUahvaw xUdw Uh hIw WD• hwssvg aoiuhgT

---------------------------------------------------

14The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 29 April 1991
Leyva canned early as manager of Phillies
NL EAST
¦Nick Leyva became the first 
manager to be fired in 1991, when 
he .was fired from his job as man­
ager of the Philadelphia Phillies 
last week. Leyva’s firing, which 
came after the Phillies’ fourteenth 
game, was the third-earliest fir­
ing in history.
Jim Fregosi, previously a man­
ager of the California Angels and 
Chicago White Sox, took over as 
tbe Phillies’ manager.
, The Pirates had a six-game win­
ing streak broken by the New 
York Mets Friday night. Frank 
Viola and John Franco combined 
to shut out the Pirates en route to 
a_2-0 victory. The loss left the 
Mèts and Pirates tied for first in 
the division.
;The Pirates won 10-1 against 
the Mets on Saturday to take the 
lead in the division. They also 
beat them yesterday 7-3 to be one 
game above .500 and two games 
ahead of the Mets.
¦Mets outfielder Vince Coleman 
moved ahead of former Dodger 
Davey Lopes into twelfth place 
all-time in stolen bases during 
the Friday game against the Pi-
THE MAJOR LEAGUES
by Rob Claydon
rates. Coleman finished the game 
with 560 career steals.
Earlier in the week, the Pirates 
completed their first three-game 
sweep of the Expos in Montreal 
since August 1988. This gave the 
Pirates a 5-1 start against the 
Expos, after struggling to a 5-13 
record against Montreal in 1990.
Chicago’s Andre Dawson began 
to show a little of his 1987 MVP 
form again, slugging four homers 
in 8 days’ time, including two 
grand slams against the Pirates. 
Dawson hit his fifth homer against 
the Reds on Saturday.
NL WEST
The Padres continued to lead 
the NL West with strong perfor­
mances by their starting pitch-
Padres left fielder Jerald Clark 
also continued to surprise oppos­
ing teams, hitting over .300 and 
leading the team in RBIs. Clark, 
who won the starting left fielder 
job in spring training, hit .267 
last year as a rookie.
The Cincinnati Reds relied on 
strong pitching to keep them close 
to the Padres last week. The en­
tire offense seemed to be in a 
slump. Starters Eric Davis, Paul 
O’Neill, Chris Sabo, and Barry 
Larkin were all hitting well be­
low their lifetime averages enter­
ing Saturday’s game with the 
Cubs.
ALEAST
Commissioner Fay Vincent up­
held the five-day suspension and 
$10,000 fine Boston pitcher Roger 
Clemens received following last 
fall’s American League Playoffs 
by AL President Bobby Brown.
Clemens had previously ap­
pealed the suspension to Brown, 
who officially upheld his decision 
on April 2. Brown said that he 
fined and suspended Clemens not 
because of his off-color remarks
to umpire Terry Cooney, but 
rather because Clemens shoved 
umpire Jim Evans in an attempt 
to get closer to Cooney.
Clemens had hired a lip-reader 
to testify for his side of the story. 
Vincent agreed with Clemens that 
Cooney’s report “contains some 
inaccuracies,” but still upheld the 
suspension.
The suspension was levied as 
soon as Vincent made his ruling, 
and resulted in Clemens missing 
a scheduled start yesterday in 
Kansas City. Clemens is currently 
tied for the major league lead in 
wins with a 4-0 record.
The Toronto Blue Jays became 
the first AL team to reach ten 
victories with a 3-2 victory over 
the Detroit Tigers last Thursday.
The victory also signified a con­
tinued resurgence by left-handed 
starter Jimmy Key. Key struggled 
through the past three seasons 
with injuries after leading the AL 
in earned run average in 1987. 
The victory gave Key a 4-0 record.
The Milwaukee Brewers turned 
around a slow start behind the 
hot hitting of left fielder Greg 
Vaughn. Vaughn hit four homers
in three games Wednesday 
through Friday, to move himself 
into a tie with teammate Robin 
Yount for third in the league with 
five home runs.
For the Baltimore Orioles, who 
are currently in last place, things 
went from bad to worse last week 
with the injury of star first 
baseman Glenn Davis. Davis in­
jured his shoulder, and was placed 
on the 15-day disabled list.
AL WEST
Rickey Henderson continued to 
sit out with a hamstring injury, 
waiting for a chance to break Lou 
Brock’s all time stolen bases 
record. Henderson was one short 
of Brock’s record 938 steals when 
he sustained the injury running 
to first base on a groundout 
against Minnesota.
Henderson was scheduled to 
start for the A’s in left field Satur­
day night against the California 
Angels. Henderson stole the 937th 
base of his career the first week of 
the season.
The Seattle Mariners contin­
ued their streaky ways. After 
opening the season with a six-
game losing streak, the Mariners 
put together an eight-game win­
ning streak. The Mariners went 
into Saturday’s game at Minne­
sota in the midst of a three-game 
losing streak.
The reason for the Mariners’ 
on-and-off winning seems to cen­
ter in the offense. The Mariners 
also have missed right-handed 
closer Mike Schooler, who has 
been sidelined since the start of 
the season with a shoulder in­
jury. Lefty Rob Dibble has pitched 
well filling in for Schooler in the 
closer role, but righty Mike Jack­
son has been ineffective, blowing 
several leads for the Mariners.
Kirk Gibson, famous for his in­
tense style of play, held a players- 
only meeting last week in an at­
tempt to inspire his new team, 
the Kansas City Royals. Gibson, 
who ended the week tied with the 
A’s Dave Henderson for the AL 
lead in homers with six, said he 
thought the Royals, who finished 
sixth in the division last year, 
were playinguninspired baseball. 
The Royals finished the week 8- 
7, a game and a half behind divi­
sion leader Chicago.
OodwsNg goaawu xowg pUugvhL
SOCCER, from page 1.
“It will be two years at most until we 
play a UAA schedule, and that will be 
advantageous for us,” said Cunningham. 
“We’re doing well against local teams, 
but we’d probably have a tough time in 
the UAA right now.”
‘'Overall, I think it’s a good idea. We’re 
not quite ready for serious competition 
even though we’ve had some good games,” 
said Chmielnicki. “I just hope we only 
wait a year so I can still be here when we 
go into the UAA.” 
in terms of on-field personnel, 
Cunningham is pleased with the talent
she has to work with next season. “We 
have a good nucleus of players, who are 
willing to put in the time and 
committment,” she said.
“I’m really looking forward to it,” said 
Chmielnicki. “We have a lot of people 
coming back, and Julie’s bringing in some 
good recruits. I think we’ll do well.”
“This wouldn’t have happened without 
[the players],” Cunningham added. “It 
was more than the fact that we were 
doing well in games; by putting in the 
time at the club level, we showed consis­
tent numbers and proved that there was 
enough of a commitment there.”
At the same time the women’s soccer 
program was given varsity status, the 
women’s field hockey team was demoted 
to club status. According to Cunningham, 
field hockey was demoted because of the 
decreasing number of varsity teams in 
the area.
“It’s not that the decision to drop field 
hockey was in any way dependent on 
women’s soccer; it was going to get 
dropped regardless,” Cunningham said. 
“Field hockey is becoming a very re­
gional sport, and around here, a lot of 
schools don’t have varsity programs any-
1991 Women’s Soccer Schedule
LgiT 3E
VE-D4 t’D4S 3z ’cc W’eS0
DMwl ­LT DMwSM0LA ^wV2r77uis\ç.7
ws.IT çau,s Ds,Is2C ts,s2ds3_3’ .7
ws.IT E(wlT ctLAaQwç_3’ .7
ws.IT EOwSQPPMt0 t!aGç .7
ws.IT E6LSSM/NMA0ç .7
ws.IT (Ewpu2Ib782s( .7
ws.IT (6aLSQc!tAQL JAQ­MtwQl0 ^PL\ç .7
ws.IT 3’wsI8C NrvvO_3’ .7
!VIT -Du,brCiI8C uCm £s11s2,8CE .7
!VIT ~QAeQLAL JAQ­MtwQl0 ^PL\( .7
!VIT RPQllf£!NAwl!DAç_3’ .7
!VIT (3auvr182Cru JCrds2,rIy ^PL\( .7
!VIT (~DL0AMwUJt/ç .7
A8dT (Nr2u7E_3’ .7
The Office of the President and the Division of Student Affairs
CORDIALLY INVITE ALL GRADUATING SENIORS TO ATTEND THE
1991 Senior Send-Off
aboard the the Gateway Clipper Fleet's Party liner 
Wednesday evening, May 15,1991
To receive your ticket, present your CMU identification at the Skibo Informa­
tion Desk between Monday, May 6 and Friday, May 9. There are a limited 
number of tickets available, so get yours early!
Buses will board from Skibo parking lot on May 15 at 6:30 pm. Boarding of the 
Partyliner will begin at approximately 7:30 pm. Buses will return from the Station 
Square Docks at 11:00 pm.
A free buffet and a cash bar will be provided. Proper identification will be required. Semi- formal attire is requested.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 29 April 1991
•mhvdUhw dUfwg zUhvosUmg
By ALIM RAY
Tartan Sports Editor
The Carnegie Mellon’s women’s ulti­
mate frisbee team placed third in the 
Regional Tournament held at St. Mary’s 
College, Maryland.
With this victory, the women’s ulti­
mate team qualifies for the National 
Tournament held in Madison, 
Wisconson — the top three schools in 
Regionals qualify for Nationals.
Carnegie Mellon played four games 
on Saturday in pool play losing to the 
eventual winners of the tournament, 
University of Virginia, 11-9.
On Sunday the team had a second 
chance at Virginia butlost againl3-7.
In the consolation match CMU de­
feated the University of Pennsylvania 
to take third place and its ticket to 
Nationals.
The two teams were fairly evenly 
matched coming into the game. “We 
were expectingit [the game] to be easier 
than it was,” senior captain Rachael 
Noble said.
At the half CMU was down 4-7. “In 
the second half we came back. Scored 
nine points to their one.... [We] showed 
why we deserve to go to Nationals in 
the second half.”
Baseball rallies at home
By ALIM RAY
Tartan Sports Editor
Carnegie Mellon’s baseball club split a 
doubleheader at home Saturday against 
LaRouche College and lost a make-up 
game against Stubenville College away 
on Thursday.
In the first game Carnegie Mellon didn’t 
play up to par, making a few errors and 
a few walks and losing 7-0. “[Their 
pitcher] pitched a pretty good game 
against us,” head coach Neil Stoemell 
said.
In the second game Carnegie Mellon
came back with three runs in the sixth 
inning to win 8-6. In the first inning 
freshman Chad Yoshikawa and sopho­
more Mike Fugaro drove in one run apiece 
to start the CMU hitting barrage. Fugaro 
drove in a total of four runs on the day 
including drawing an intentional walk 
to bring in a man to tie the score.
With the bases still loadedjunior Dave 
Beltz hit a single which drove in the two 
winning runs.
Other hitting stars included freshman 
ArlinThakur and sophomore Joe Mauro, 
both scoring three runs on the day.
Freshman Dave Sandberg pitched the
last four innings of the contest, in relie'Jr 
of freshman John Hutchison, to pick up® 
the win for CMU.
“He came off the bench [and] stayed"' 
out of trouble,” Stoemell said. “That’Sy 
real good for a freshman.”
In the game on Thursday CMU wasn’t 
able to hold Stubenville. The team only” 
got a total of three hits in the game.
CMU’s only highlight was Hutchison’s1 
double in the bottom of the sixth with the 
bases loaded to drive in three runs. \ 
“I like the direction we’re going witli1. 
this [team].... We seem to be improving,' 
Stoemell said.
ft
»V
SPORTS IN SEASON 
Chess
Commissioner 
Buddy Feitt, x3947 
Please finish all games this 
week.
Backgammon
Commissioner 
Buddy Feitt, x3947 
Please finish all games this 
week.
Bridge
Commissioner 
Rich Romeo, x8335 
Please play last matches.
Faculty/Grad Volleyball
Commissioner 
Charles Yount, x7113 
Playoffs will be this week.
Pinochle
Commissioner 
Buddy Feitt, x3947 
Please play finals this week.
Table Tennis
Commissioner 
Jon Wei, x8354
Please play finals this week. picked up in the IM office.
Fencing
Commissioner 
Kim Meister, 681-3447 
Championship matches will be 
held this week.
Can Pool
Commissioner 
Jon Teng, 683-0104 
Finals will be held this week.
Ultimate Frisbee
Commissioner 
Scott Quarles, x7516 
Schedules are out and can be 
picked up in the IM office. Stand­
ings are posted on IM bulletin 
board. Please play all matches on 
time.
Softball
Commissioners
Majors — Andy Helms, x5347
Intermediates — Sujit
Bhattacharya, ::4084
Minors — Mike Gryzwinski, 521-
8977
Women’s — A commissioner has 
not yet been appointed. 
Schedules are out and can be
Indoor Soccer
Commissioners
Majors — Sujit Bhattacharya, 
x4084
Intermediates — John Supp, 
x8423
Minors — Mike Gryzwinski, 521- 
8944
Please check IM bulletin board 
for playoff schedule.
Weight Lifting
Commissioner 
Keith Gorse, x2222 
Finals will be held this week.
IM Track Meet
Commissioners:
Mike Gryzwinski, 521-8977 
John Supp, x8423 
The 1991 Intramural Track 
Meet was run in the beautiful 
Geshng Stadium on Thursday and 
with the help of the fantastic new 
track, the stadium lights and the 
full moon, a new participation 
record was set for a CMU intra­
mural track meet.
A very strong Spirit team won 
the All-Campus Championship
LCC8gCVrCiGRAKD
WDKKER
81 Ibs
%Culmry<¿Mventürv
Jeff Chen
will receive dinner for two at either
La Mont 
Grand Concourse 
or Georgetown Inn.
Dining Service
and Navy-A won the Women’s 
Division Championship.
The Intramural Department 
gives a very special thanks to com­
missioner Todd Barbera of the 
Green Aces and all the volunteers 
who worked hard to make this 
year’s Intramural Track Meet the 
greatest in the history of the Car­
negie Mellon intramural program.
UPCOMING SPORTS 
Bowl-a-thon
Commissioner 
Kris Pasqualin, x5978
The Intramural Department 
will conduct a Bowl-a-thon to help 
Junior Achievement of Southwest 
Pennsylvania. You may bowl in a 
five-person team or as an indi­
vidual.
To enter, pick up your team 
captain’s packet or individual 
sponsor sheet in the Intramural 
Office. You must arrange for a 
sponsor to pledge a certain 
amount for every pin you knock 
down.
The date and time of the Bowl- 
a-thon is Wednesday, May 1 from 
4:30 to 9 pm. Bowlers must be off
the alley by 9 pm. Refreshments 
will be served. For any additional 
information, please stop in the 
IM office or call the commissioner.
Frisbee Golf
Commissioner 
Kris Pasqualin, x5978
The 1991 Frisbee Golf Tourna­
ment will be held next Thursday 
at 4:30 pm. You may play as a 
team or as an individual. Please 
meet commissioner Kris 
Pasqualin at the main entrance 
to the gym at 4:15 pm or on the #1 
tee at the Schenley Park Frisbee 
Course at 4:30 pm on Thursday. 
All Frisbee golfers must provide 
their own frisbees. Post entry — 
just bring your frisbee and have 
fun playing frisbee golf. For addi­
tional information call Kris at 
x5978 or the IM office, x2214.
1990-91 OUTSTANDING 
SERVICE AWARD
During the 1991 Intramural 
banquet held Wednesday in the 
Faculty Lounge, Michael 
Gryzwinski was presented a beau­
tiful plaque for his outstanding 
contribution to the Intramural
program. uatil
Big Mike, as he is called by hiS*0 
many friends in the Intramura!^ 
Department, has been a playei?K 
official, commissioner, a member 
of the Intramural Board, and prti-^ 
gram supervisor during the 1990^- 
1991 Intramural year.3£fc*
NEW IM PRESIDENT
Buddy Feitt of ATO was re-^ 
elected president of the Carnegie? 
Mellon Intramural Board for
1991-1992.
IM MAN OF THE YEAR
:oe
Intramural Board president^ 
Buddy Feitt was elected the 1990—j» 
1991 Intramural ManoftheYear.;j 
In addition to acting as the Intra— ( 
mural Board president, Buddy 
played on numerous Intramural^ 
teams, was commissioner of many 
Intramural sports, and officiated.„ 
various Intramural programs... 
during the past year. Buddy was 
elected for this award by his fel­
low IM Board members at the^
meeting held last Thursday. ___,
*Compiled by { 
ALIM RAY I
Classifieds
Housing
Short Term - Shadyside Inn 
Apartment Suites. Elegantly furnished, well-appointed, studio 1&2 bedroom suites, fully- equipped kitchen. Includes free cable (HBO), phone, parking, linens. One block to Walnut Street shops. From $41 per day, monthly basis. Daily, weekly, & monthly rates available. 441-4444.
May 1, clean, one-bedroomstudio apartment, furnished, 5- • minute walk to campus, $250 plus utilities, 655-1872. Also Sep­tember 1, walk to campus, furnished two-and-three bedroom apartment, living room, dining room, front porch, back yard, private entrances, $360-400 plus utilities, 655-1872.
Shadyside - Large two-bedroom apartment, convenient to CMU campus, laundry, $415 (includes heat and electric). Available June 1. 422-0262.
Shadyside- One-and-two bedroom apartments available fall1991. Just off Walnut Street. 
Great student apartments. 362- 2164.
Shadyside - Fifth Ave. Large,. luxury 1 BR for Grads or Faculty only. $490 includes heat. May & June occupancy. 521-9555 **466- 
0835.
Roommates sought by incoming grad student for next year. Call Eric, (609) 258-7871. No smokers or conservatives!
Shadyside - Sept. Large 3 bedroom near Walnut. $610+. 521-9555.
Apartment for rent starting May.2 rooms & kitchen and bathroom. 
Furnished $400 per month. All utilities paid. Very good location. 
209 S. Neville St. Summer or all year. Call 882-9635.
Shadyside Apartment - available 
June 1st. 2 and 1/2 bedrooms, large with fireplace, kitchen with pantry/walk-in closet, lots of windows, 2 blocks from both Walnut Street and busway/Food Gallery. No dogs or cats. $425/ month. Call Jason or Richard at 363-7478.
Summer Sublet - Squirrel Hill. One bedrom. New kitchen and
bath. $325 plus electric. Day 421- 8828. Night422-1 111.
Seeking a roomate for Fall ‘91/ Spring ’92. Looking for a female- nonsmoker, someone who is clean. Will be living with one other female in a house on Beeler St. Free washer/dryer all year. If interested 
call Christina, 681-6833.
Jobs
Overseas Opportunities — Twoyear positions in developing coun­tries. Citizenship/degree required.
All expenses paid. Excellent benefits— loan deferment/grad school assistance. Call Gwen Allen, Peace Corps Rep. 648-7424.
Dream Jobs Now!! Jobs open in Paradise: Hawaii, California, Florida, cruise-ships-, National Parks, & more for spring & summer. 100s ad­dresses and telephone numbers guaranteed. 1-900-226-2644. Telephone charges $3/min.
Activists, Student Summer Jobs!
Campaign Work!! Pittsburgh Area!!! EARN $300-400 per week this summer working for environmental quality and consumer rights. PA’s largest non-profit citizens’ lobby is hiring college students for its summer campaign staff in Pittsburgh. Call (412) 765-2641 for a personal interview. “Make a difference, not just a buck!”
Resaturant Help - Banquet setup, dishwashers, waitress/waiters, over 18, flexible schedule. Call Mr. Stack 
781-1666.
Summer Jobs $10 an hour to start if you are from and will be living in the Greater Pittsburgh, Philadelphia, Central/Southern New Jersey, 
Wilmington, Baltimore, DC, Richmond, or Norfolk, VA metro 
areas. Call Michael McQuown (202)223-3652 today for an appoint­
ment.
Services
Abortion, Morning after treatment. Free 
pregnancy testing, supportive atmo­sphere. Birth control, VD testing, men and women. Call 661-8811. Allegheny Reproductive.
Heading for Europe this summer? Jet there anytime for $160 with Airhitch (r) (reported in NY Times and Let’s Go!) Airhitch(r) 621-7700
***Low Student, Faculty Fares***AYH Passes*** EurailPasses*** TravelBooks*** All to be found at Forum Travel. Visit us at 4608 Winthrop St. (off South Craig) or call us at 681- 
4099.
Discount fares for Eurail passes and flights to Europe as low as $450.00 with up to a one year stay. Contact NSTS at 800-257-7446 or 609-795-9044. Other destinations 
are also available.
Healthy Women ages 18-37 (34 for smokers) needed for oral contraceptive study at Magee Women’s Hospital. One-year commitment. Reimbursement. For details call 647-4259 (Mon.-Fri.)
Cook Wanted - Cook wanted for 
4 days/wk. Cook dinner for 35-50 people. Write to : Box 1367, 1060 Morewood Avenue, Pgh. 15213.
Summer Trips! Students and faculty. Europe, U.S. Cross­
country tours out West, the best of the Caribbean! Lowest prices on great trips! Call now for FREE brochures! Four Seasons: 1-800- 
331-3136
Mother’s Helper Squirrel Hill.Mon-Fri. Hours approximately 12:00 P.M. - 8:00 P.M. 4 year old/ 
4 month old. Phone 681-0605.
Batik and Tie Dye Artist seeks 
pan-time summer help — May through August. 481-2911. 9-1 lam.
Miscellaneous
Shadyside Book Exchange —Credit for quality paperbacks. Thousands of half-price paper­backs on all subjects. 5815 Ellsworth Avenue. Phone 363- 
4426.
Is it true, gov’t seized vehicles from $100? Call for immediate information. 504-649-5745, Ext.
S-10300.
NO EXIT, the book. Nationally syndicated cartoon strip. $6.95+$3 s/h. Bean Avenue Publishing, P.O. Box 1055, Tucson, AZ 85702- 1055. Visa/MC/check/m.o. 3-4 weeks delivery.
This is The Tartan’s last issue for 
the semester. We will resume 
publication in September.

---------------------------------------------------

16The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 29 April 1991
GixlL HUmmg IUun vs ’mhoosUM e’
By DAVE MARTIN
Tartan Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon Univer­
sity rugby club traveled to 
Altoona, Pennsylvania Saturday, 
for its final game of the season, 
with only sixteen players. Play­
ing with predominantly B-team 
players, the Eggmen wei'e de­
feated 30-6.
1 Altoona started and ended its 
scoring in the first half of the 
game, dominating the CMU 
: ruggers completely, and establish­
ing a 30-0 lead. But the CMU
SOFTBALL
All intramural softball teams 
are reminded that teams that play 
at 6:30 pm cannot use the sta­
dium fields until 6:15 pm. Please 
do not come on the field any ear­
lier since the varsity track team 
has practice before that time. The 
Intramural Department thanks 
you for your cooperation. Please 
contact the commissioner for any 
questions. The commissioners are 
listed in IM News.
“We were really at a disadvantage, 
playing most of our B-team."
— freshman Justin Lam
team gathered its defensive 
shackles and shut down Altoona 
throughout the remainder of the 
game. The only scoring for CMU 
came late in the game from junior 
Jeff Bair, who scored a try, and 
freshman Justin Lam, who fol­
lowed Bair’s try with a kick-after, 
totaling six points for the severely
undermanned CMU team. 
Through most of the game, the 
inexperienced players were domi­
nated by Altoona’s A-team team, 
which CMU’s A-team defeated 
just three weeks ago.
Senior captain Chris Devlin said 
of the last game of the year, “It 
was pretty bad. We only had 16
players because most of us were 
injured or just couldn’t make it. 
We had a few A-team players, but 
all our key guys were gone. We 
had positions being filled by play­
ers who had never played those 
positions before. It was ugly.” 
Lam commented, “We were re­
ally at a disadvantage, playing 
most of our B-team. That’s why 
we lost. But it was a good effort by 
our B-teamers. Altoona got off to 
a strong start, and we didn’t score 
till the end of the game. But by 
the end of the game, we were 
playing pretty well.”
SuV28,,s ,sI, RfE 2sV82m
LACROSSE, from page 13
“We were very lucky to have 
it so close,” said Kaplan. Flow­
ers said, “We were plagued with 
penalties.”
In the third quarter, Allegh­
eny scored another three goals 
while holding Carnegie Mellon 
to only two. Therefore, Allegh­
eny was leading 7-6 going into 
the fourth quarter.
Kaplan said of the fourth 
quarter, “We went on fire, some­
thing just clicked inside of us.” 
Stonesiefer scored the ninth 
goal, which was the most im­
portant, helping to put CMU 
ahead of Allegheny. The goal 
was his first of the season and 
helped to clinch the win for 
CMU.
“It was a beautiful breaking 
goal,” said Kaplan.
In total, CMU scored fivegoals 
in the fourth quarter and won 
the game 11-7.
These two wins in the tourna­
ment led CMU to a 9-1 overall 
record. The lacrosse club will 
play a big game this Sunday 
against the Pittsburgh Lacrosse 
Club in Gesling at 2:30 pm.
IM Scoreboard
D’F-GS
UsIu lbgCms2n8vI, 
Ll!
/wQL WRE L 
UsIu eu25b82,s, 
/wQL WRE U 
/wQL PNe
3z.4GD453’.4S
NATIONALS
PLe
Pbr Gu. L 
wLM L 
Uu2V2upvs2, 
PrGL Pr2uIs, 
lbsIu «r U
AMERICAN 
LIbvsIrV wg..82Is2, 
IbsIu «r L 
9gIuisC,
O c .
3 ’ 
2 0 
2 2
>88 LEEDIVISION EUsIu QW7 eriirC Ns2’(
UsIuW, /88m lsu7E3wLM U3’
/2ssC LVs,’3Pbr Gu. L(’DIVISION D
lssCuis 9gIuCITEEeJ LE’
D3z-GSwJPL!*1s2,EElbsIu «r L(’
DIVISION ADlN9E(9g,vr7, wIgmsCI L,,8VT ’(
F(’ c2ss LisCI,E(c2rCis QQ’OwLM L’E
P85syW, lsu73E
tuCm87 Duv5s2,(EDIVISION FD3z-GS
wri lug tsumy I8 Ssuds (EaQL3’DIVISION A
Dub8 x Ibs l2rns(EPrGL PgIqs2,3’wLM L3’
UsIu*, !Ibs2 lsu7’O9uIbvsIs,(Ec2rCis /u2i8yvs,(’
Uri tsmE(au7sv £8V5sy,’(
DIVISION BeJ’(l28|uC, L’(
UvuV5 turC(’c2rCis E’O
Usrv,IsrC U87ns2,(’DIVSION B
Get3EINDOOR SOCCERAudy U(’
w:gssqs PvuyE(9uIbvsIs,(E
Pr8Css2,E3T 3z.4GD453’.4Swri lug !Ibs2,E(
Pbr J.,rv8C’3DIVISON AUsIu’(
/wQL3’
DIVISION CLl! LVs,E’EDIVISION C
Audy L3’Pbr Gu. UEEEwri lug wsCr82,(’
Pbr Gu. U(’PrGL LE(PrSu7(E
lbsIu «r aE(>88 L’3Pr8Css2,EE
Gu..u wri7u /u77u(3ele U’3
/wQL Pbe UE3DIVISION B
Gu..u Gu..u wri7u’(Uuvvng,Is2,(’DIVISION D
Pbr Gu. LE’lbsIu «r Dbuvs,3’
DIVISION Desvr2 Nskui8CuvEEP,yVv8Cs,EE
PrSu7(’GwL’3Get’(
Asp UsIu Db83EwLM w785s2,’(
w81Inuvv,(EDIVISION C
9um wV8nsvvruC,E(ele L(’DIVISION E
lbsIu «r eE(tsuv 9svv8CE’ELl! wv8n,3’
9svv8Cbsum,’3es1sVI, JCrIsm’EEeJ UEE
lbsIu «r NsV5vs E E
Uwt Nu7,Is2, ’ 3
DIVISION F 
aQ­M
Gu..u wri7u
aQL
/wQL
DIVISION G 
Audy L 
Psvs*, 9svss 
DuCCu UsW, 
lbsIu «r U
O-D4z
Pbr Gu. 
lbsIu
FACULTY/GRAD VOLLEYBALL 
D’F-GS
AsIp825s2, ~ E
Uu2V2upvs2, - (
P,yVb8 - 3
SrCs e2rds O 3
lbs 9s,,uis Pu,,s2, O O
/8g2m, ( 3
9sVbuCrVuv MCiT
t8n8w.r5s,
lbs tsVg2,rds wsI,
3z.4GD453’.4
w.r5s, 8C Ibs SrCs 
Nsmisb8i, 1287 Nsvv 
eri lbr, 
UsIIs2 811 esum 
9g Lv.bu lbsIu 
wJPL wIu2, 
Sg7.sC QCIsvvsVIguv, 
Ur8Nuqqu2m, 
ws2ds2, 81 aIbgvbg
D3z-GS
t8vvrCi lbgCms2
w.r5sm PgCVb
wgm,gV5s2,
Qla P8ps2 w.r5s,
t8n8/2um,
ts7smruI82,
LC8Cy78g,
l2ssNgiis2,
lbs lris2,
3 - 
( O 
( -
Compiled by 
ALIM RAY
Owwfwsn CiHHwh 
All you can eat only— $6.95 
Friday & Saturday 5-9:00 
p.m.
Sunday 12:00-3:00 p.m.
2Thea ree Restaurant
For take out call:
~(Ef~ERR1w m
Daily Lunch Special
• one entree over rice
• with chefs special soup
• and served with tea
• and fortune cookie
• only — $3.79
4609 asCI2s LdsTo
AT !u5vuCm4wbumy,rms L2su 
^uV28,, 1287 /ruCI Muivs\
TOSHIBA
Qo&L'tiF: ri f(’4O’ 9U bu2m mr,5 
f6’a(6~ Ll .28Vs,,82 
fE( 9bqo E9U tL9o çTR vn, 
f3T-• ETOO 9U cee
UNIVERSITY DISCOUNTS
DSR, INC
Call 800-875-0037
h­QwL x 9LwlMtaLte LVVsCIsm
Ÿ&cE(’’«M
Q AMMe L 
wJt­Q­LS 
/L9MTTT 
ULeY
THREE 
RIVERS 
SURVIVAL 
GAME 
CALL 935-6100
• FRAT PARTIES
• BIRTHDAYS
• GIFT CERTIFICATES
JUST GRADUATED? 
HAVING JOB 
HUNTING PROBLEMS?
c82 u :grV5o su,yo C8f2r,5 ,8vgIr8Co 
Vuvv 182 12ss rC1827uIr8C .uV5 
CAREER DYNAMICS INC.
lbs V87.uCy IbuI isI, y8g .2s.u2sm 
(412) 687-6354 
!.sC ç muy, .s2 pss5
On the one hand...
The Tartan would like to thank all the members of 
the 1990-1991 staff. We are proud of our writers, 
artists, photographers, cartoonists, and columnists; 
our darkroom, copy, production, and business 
staffs - their consistent, timely, and professional 
efforts have made this year both memorable and 
successful.
and on the other hand... ALL STAFFElections for a new Editor-in-Chief and Managing Editorwill be held on Tuesday, April 30 at 4:30 pmSkibo 13All current staff are eligible to vote
Carnegie 
Mellon’sTHE TARTAN
Student 
Newspaper
Since 1906

---------------------------------------------------

2omidw Bb3ggiw 7 .Iw .UuhUs
not just bones and crockery

---------------------------------------------------

Table of contents
WCC member gives a perspective on the collectivepage3
Three sisters talk about the sorority mystiquepage4
Fraternities address women’s issuespage5
CMU Policy Against Sexual Harassmentpage6
Sexual harassment issues get attentionpage7
Three couples are... married with homeworkpage8
Male group works to eliminate pornographypage11
The woman / am 
is not what you see 
I’m not just bones 
and crockery
the woman I am 
knew love and hate 
hating the chains 
that parents make
the woman I am 
is not what you see 
move over love 
make room for me
- The Unquiet Bed, Dorothy Livesay 
copyright 1972
2 \kâr-neg'-ë\

---------------------------------------------------

WCC member gives a perspective on the coISective
When I came to CMU last fall as a transfer 
student, I already identified myself as a feminist. I 
had transferred from a school whose male/female 
ratio was the exact opposite of CMU's, so in effect, 
the school was a women's center. When I hit the 
CMU campus, I was immediately struck by the 
difference in atmosphere, a result of the difference in 
the male/female ratio. CMU is a male-dominated 
campus. I suddenly became very conscious of being 
female by the way other students interacted with 
me. I found it very easy to make male friends and 
difficult to meet other women. When I discovered 
the Women's Center, there was no question in my 
mind of the need for its existence.
If someone were to ask me what the CMU 
Women's Center Collective is, my most accurate 
response, although probably the least satisfying one, 
would be that it is whatever its members make of it. 
The Women's Center Collective (WCC) has no set 
agenda except to be a space for all those concerned 
about feminism and the economic, social, and legal 
status of women everywhere. It's a safe space on 
campus for women and men who want to be recog­
nized as individuals rather than genders. I use th^ 
word "safe" because those who go against the 
mainstream's notion of what's female and what's 
male suffer physical and verbal violence on this 
campus and in the outside world.
Beyond this it would be difficult to pinpoint one 
specific goal that all the members agree on. This is 
not to say that the WCC does not achieve anything. 
Just because we do not have a unified agenda does 
not mean that individual members do not have their 
own agendas to follow within the WCC space. I 
can't speak for other members, I can only speak for 
myself.
The WCC is structured differently from the rest 
of CMU, which probably accounts for the miscon­
ceptions about it that many students have. Needless 
to say, those misconceptions are also grounded in 
sexism and fear of loss of power. When I enter the 
Women's Center, I have to make an effort to shed 
my internalized hierarchical ideology of organiza­
tion. In other words, the WCC does not have a 
consciously organized hierarchy of power that runs 
it, which is why it is called a collective. This means 
that each member has as much decision-making 
power and as many rights as the next. Of course, for 
practical purposes, this is not always true, although 
it is the organizational ideal that we work towards. 
The first step towards that ideal is shedding the 
hierarchical organization of our daily life, both social 
and political.
I would guess that the context of the collective 
organization comes from the history of the women's
movement and woman-identified ways of interpret­
ing and interacting with the world. What is woman- 
identified? I don't think there is a consensus on the 
answer. It's hard to identify because our society is 
male-dominated and, therefore, male-identified, 
even in our language. The best we can do is to try to 
identify ways of life that seem common to women. 
This is not to say that it is natural to women. I think 
men and women can learn and internalize man or 
woman identification. One woman-identified 
method of interaction is through connection rather 
than one-upmanship. This connection is how the 
WCC works, too. There is a concerted effort not to 
compete or to prove our individual worth because 
that's a given within the WCC. Whatever our 
individual goals may be, we try to work towards 
them together. The issue or the cause is the most 
important thing, not ourindividual successes.
My interests in the WCC are political. I want to
take advantage of the Women's Center space to 
educate myself and others against sexism and the 
oppression of women. I would also like to see the 
WCC diversify itself and become more actively 
involved in other issues linked to sexism, most 
notably on this campus: racism and homophobia. I 
also have personal interests: the Women's Center 
has a great library and is a perfect place to meet 
other women and men with whom I have ideas in 
common. So, in short, I would say that the Women's 
Center offers the opportunity for all members of the 
community to use their ideas and energy to improve 
the quality of our social, political, and educational 
lives at CMU.
ed. note— Tartan Staffwriter Justine Dymond is a 
member of the Women's Center Collective.
by Justine Dymond 
Tartan Staffwriter
\kar-neg'-e\ 3

---------------------------------------------------

Three sorority sisters talk about the sorority mystique
"Almost everybody I knew said, 'I'm not 
rushing.' Then, 'I'll rush, but I won't pledge.' Then 
you get caught up in it." Kriss Evans, a junior in 
Industrial Management and president of the CMU 
chapter of PanHellenic Council, smiled when she 
thought about her freshman year, and pledging at 
Delta Delta Delta (Tridelta). "People do it for 
different reasons/' said Evans. Rosemary Green, a 
H&SS freshman and a sister at Kappa Alpha Theta, 
went through this year's fall rush. "It was a good 
opportunity to meet girls, and everybody wanted to 
meet each other," said Green. Regardless of the 
reason why young women pledge to join sororities, 
most decide to stay with the sorority and become 
sisters. As she tried to explain the appeal of sorority 
life, Green described it as an outlet from schoolwork 
and an opportunity to grow. She also described 
various aspects of sororities and the Greek system in 
general. No matter which aspect she was talking 
about, though, she always talked about a bond 
between the sisters in her house, and between 
everyone in the Greek system, that she could never 
quite explain.
Evans began with the experience of pledging. 
"Pledging is a time to learn about a sorority and its 
history," said Evans. "It's a time to decide." If a 
pledge has maintained an acceptable grade point 
average—at Tridelta, pledges have to get above a 
2.0—and shown interest in the sorority by being 
involved with the activities of the house, then she 
can initiate. At Tridelta, pledges meet once a week, 
as do the officers, and there's a business meeting on 
the first three Sundays of the month. The remaining 
Sunday is usually a social activity, like a game of 
softball or a guest speaker.
Being a part of a sorority obviously means a lot 
of interaction with a lot of people. "You grow into 
it," Evans said of the social life. "You're not going to 
get along with everybody, but the organization 
wouldn't work if you didn't leam to work around 
that." Alexis DePlanque, a sophomore Math/CS 
major and a sister at Kappa Kappa Gamma, also 
mentioned that in sororities, sisters leam to work 
within large groups of people. "You really have to 
learn diplomacy," DePlanque said. "I think you miss 
out on that when you aren't part of a large organiza­
tion."
There are social events like mixers with fraterni­
ties, and socials and for formals within the house 
that give sisters lots of opportunities to spend time 
in a relaxed atmosphere. Sororities, like fraternities, 
come together during events like Greek Sing, Booth, 
and Buggy; events like these offer the kind of 
bonding that brings a house together. "You know 
you're supporting a cause," said Evans, "and when 
it all comes together, it's great to know that you
were a part of something like that." Green also 
commented on the work that's involved in being a 
sister. "It's not all fun and games," said Green, "you 
have to do a lot of work, but the friendships last 
forever and are completely worth it. Being in a 
sorority, according to Evans, also enhances leader­
ship and communication skills. "It's your option if 
you want to get involved in the hierarchy," said 
Evans. According to Green, although leadership 
roles in sororities can be demanding, "they don't 
expect more from you than you can handle."
As a member of the Greek Council, Evans sees a 
lot of the community service that Greek organiza­
tions do, and can see the difference that sororities 
and fraternities can make when they work to change 
something. Each house has a national philanthropy, 
a charity that the sorority adopts on a national level. 
For example, Tridelta's national philanthropy is 
children's cancer research, so the house donates 
money from fundraisers to Children's Hospital.
Along with other officers of PanHel, Evans 
would like to see more social interaction between 
different sororities. Although she feels that there is 
some interaction, she'd like to see it happen earlier, 
in the freshman and sophomore years. DePlanque 
described social interaction from a slightly different 
perspective. "There's not a whole lot of interaction 
as in two houses doing an event together," said 
DePlanque, "but you do have lots of everyday 
contact." In addition to stimulating more interac­
tion between sororities, PanHel would like to be 
more visible on campus. "We want to to sponsor a 
barbeque, and have a bigger impact at orienta­
tion," said Evans.
Of course, sisters don't have to be officers to 
be involved in the social scene of the Greek 
system. According to Evans, there are a lot of 
committees, and that's where a lot of the social 
involvement and action takes place. "There 
are a lot of campus organizations I could be 
involved with," said Evans, "but if I wasn't 
involved in this, I don't know what I'd be 
doing." Basically, no matter how socially 
involved you want to be, a sorority can be 
a good place to start. "Each person is 
going to find her own place in sorority," 
said Evans. "It will be different and have 
different meanings for each member."
by Alison Green 
Tartan Magazine Editor
4 \kàr-neg'-ê\

---------------------------------------------------

Fraternities address women’s Issues
Fraternities have a pretty bad reputation in the 
area of the treatment of women. Recent protests 
have highlighted the issues of sexist or degrading 
party posters and others have hinted that fraternities 
promote date rape. But the quad, including women 
associated with various houses, has a lot to say in its 
defense and in the next year will be initiating a lot of 
programs to try and change its sexist image.
Liz Steutz, a senior in Professional Writing and a 
past president of Theta Xi's little sisters, says, "I 
don't think women are any less safe or respected at a 
fraternity than they are at a friend's party in an 
apartment, or in a bar, or walking across the Cut.
Just because it's held by an organization of men 
doesn't make them less respected." She thinks the 
image of most fraternities is reputation based on a 
few facts. "I've never had any problems with any 
brothers treating me like I was less than equal 
because I'm a little sister or because I'm a girl," says 
Steutz.
Vanessa VonTwistem, a junior in Creative 
Writing and a little sister at Delta Tau Delta, agrees. 
"Do you remember the telephone game you used to 
play when you were little? It goes from one person 
to another and by the time it got to the end of the 
line it was so completely different from the wav it started. The stories that you hear start from truth, so 
there is something to think about and to worry 
about, but what you end up hearing can be so 
exaggerated."
The protests and the stereotypes point fingers at 
the whole, not the individuals, according to junior 
IM major and IFC President Matt Ireland. "There 
was a whole barrage of attacks on fraternities and 
fraternity people, when really it was only certain 
people that were responsible," says Ireland. 
VonTwistem says, "Even though certain brothers 
sometimes act stupid when it comes to women, you 
can't hold one person responsible for the actions of 
the entire group." She also thinks that other brothers 
in DTD would speak to a brother who seemed 
particularly sexist or did something that a woman 
might find offensive. "I think a lot of people here are 
pretty conscientious," says VonTwistem.
Ireland feels that the topic of fraternities and 
women's issues is something that every house 
should address. He says "Maybe fraternity members 
aren't as aware of the issues as they should be. They 
might not know what exactly constitutes rape or 
sexual harassment." But Ireland thinks accusing 
instead of educating isn't going to improve any­
thing. "I'll guarantee that a bunch of fraternity guys 
will be less willing to talk if you're yelling at them 
instead of talking with them," he says.
Ireland says "[The protest in front of Theta Xi] 
was founded in some ways. They have a gripe
against sexism on posters and that is a very founded 
gripe. But what they have to realize is it's better to 
go through proper channels first than to be very 
reactionary." Many people in the quad reacted 
against the protestors precisely for that reason. 
According to Steutz, "They never approached 
anyone from Theta Xi and asked them about it." 
Even as a female member of Theta Xi, Stuetz says 
that she wasn't offended by the poster's representa­
tion of women. She says, "I personally didn't take 
offense to it because I didn't look at it in that man­
ner. You can see that woman if you open up any 
woman's magazine." She was, however, disturbed 
by the fact that the protestors pointed a finger at the 
whole fraternity instead of the individuals respon­
sible.
However, the quad's reaction to the recent 
approach by the Women's Center showed that it 
was the approach of the protestors more than the 
issues of sexism that bothered fraternities. About a 
week before Carnival, the Women's Center and 
Action Against Rape sent a letter around to all the 
fraternities' social chairmen asking for help handing 
out posters about^date rape. The response to this 
approach was very different from the violent 
reaction to the protest. Eight fraternities — Phi Kap, 
DTD, Theta Xi, Kappa Sig, Sig Tau, ATO, SAE, and 
Beta — agreed to help the two groups hand out 
posters on date rape in some way. According to Beth 
Cronise, a junior in Professional Writing, Creative
Writing, and French, KDR didn't think they needed 
to participate because their parties were mostly 
attended by brothers; DU didn't respond; Sigma Nu 
said no; and PiLam couldn't be reached. In some 
cases, brothers helped hand out posters in front of 
their parties. In other cases, the brothers distributed 
them in their house or at their booth. Cronise said 
they had some problems with ATO. For example, an 
ATO brother took a stack of the posters and threw 
them out into the street. But apparently that was 
partly because the social chairman had not had a 
chance to inform all the brothers of what they were 
doing.
The posters gave fraternity brothers a chance to 
leam a little about the issues as well as show their 
concern about these kinds of issues. "In terms of 
raising consciousness," says Cronise, "it did a lot." 
She said she was really impressed with Phi Kap and 
DTD in particular. However, many people still 
voiced the opinion that fraternity action like this 
should be organized through IFC. According to 
Ireland, IFC is trying to address the issues of date 
rape and sexism, as well as alcoholism. "We don't 
have a formalized plan yet," says Ireland, "but we 
have some good ideas and we're going to try and 
get them out for next fall."
ed. note— Tartan Contributing Editor Jen Kerstein 
is a little sister at DTD.
by Jen Kerstein 
Tartan Contributing Editor
\kar-neg'-e\ 5

---------------------------------------------------

CMU Policy Against Sexual Harassment
Carnegie Mellon University seeks to maintain a learning and work environment free from sexual 
harassment. Carnegie Mellon is dedicated to the free exchange of ideas and the intellectual 
development of all members of the community. For this exchange and development to take 
place, the environment must promote the confidence to work, to study, to innovate, and to 
perform without fear of harassment.
Sexual harassment is specifically prohibited by Carnegie Mellon University. Any faculty member, 
staff employee, or student found to have violated the University’s policy against sexual harass­
ment will be subject to immediate and appropriate disciplinary action, including possible sus­
pension, termination, or expulsion.
CMU adopts the basic definition of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) 
regarding sexual harassment as any unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, or 
other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature when:
1 ) Submission to such conduct is an explicit or implicit condition of employment or evaluation 
or advancement of a student.
2) Submission to or rejection of such conduct is used as the basis for employment, evaluation, 
or advancement decisions.
3) Such conduct has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering with an individual’s work 
performance, or creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment.
Under Federal, State and City laws, employers have an affirmative duty to investigate claims of 
sexual harassment and develop appropriate sanctions for such behavior. These laws require 
that employers affirmatively address the issue of sexual harassment in the workplace and devise 
and adopt appropriate procedures for maintaining a working atmosphere free of sexual pres­
sure or intimidation.
In support of its commitment to maintain an environment free of sexual harassment, the Univer­
sity attempts to make reporting of such incidents and advising about sexual harassment as 
widely available as possible. To that end, the University has assigned special responsibility to 
the people listed below:
6 \kär-neg'-€\
Panel of Advisers on the Sexual Harassment Policy
University Ombudsman: Richard B. Barnhart, WH 315, x6757
Head of the Counseling Center: Lorrie Rabin, MG E103, x2922
Dean of Students: Michael C. Murphy, WH 206, x2075
Director of Human Resources: Barbara B. Smith, WH 310, x8709
Associate Provost for Academic Projects: Barbara B. Lazarus, EDSH 209, x6995
Director of Legal Affairs: Linda G. Binstock, EDSH 99, x3746
An individual designated by the Faculty Senate
An individual designated by Staff Council
An individual designated by the Student Senate
An individual designated by the Graduate Student Organization

---------------------------------------------------

Sexual harassment issues get attention
The issue of sexual harassment has always been a concern for 
anyone in a working or academic atmosphere. Internal 
hierarchies can create tension between people on different 
levels of the hierarchy. Lately, however, the issue has been 
getting a lot of attention. Even if you missed the revision of the 
policy on sexual harassment that was issued on February 7, 
chances are you've heard about the allegations against Cyert. 
On the opposite page is the revised policy, which was 
reviewed by and includes amendments from the Staff Council, 
and the Faculty and Student Senates. According to Alvin P. 
Brannick, vice president for Legal Affairs, the Sexual 
Harassment Committee of the Human Relations Commission 
"worked very hard on the policy, to sensitize people to the 
issue and provide a good working and student environment."
CMU is required to have a policy against sexual harassment 
by Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. The idea is that staff, 
faculty, and students should have somewhere to go and 
someone to talk to if they have a complaint. "[The act] states 
that there has to be a way to do this, but it doesn't say how," 
said Brannick. The CMU policy is the method by which the 
spirit of the act is carried out, and as the concept of sexual 
harassment has changed over the years, so has the policy.
One case that has had a substantial effect on the sexual 
harassment policies of several corporations and universities is 
the case of Meritor Savings Bank vs. Mechelle Vinson in 1986. The 
reason this was a landmark case is that, according to Brannick, 
"the knowledge of the supervisor became the knowledge of the 
company." In effect, the corporation or organization became 
legally accountable for the actions of a supervisor. CMU has 
been offering educational sessions on the sexual harassment
policy for supervisors from various university departments, the 
last of which will take place tomorrow. The sessions take from 
about an hour to an hour and a half, and attendants view a 
video based on an actual sexual harassment case. "People are 
forced to think about [the issue], and evaluate what is 
happening in the video," said Brannick.
The members of the panel of sexual harassment advisors have 
to make similar evaluations in actual situations. Linda Binstock, 
director of Legal Affairs and a counselor on the panel of sexual 
harassment advisors, is one of the people who handles 
allegations of sexual harassment at the beginning of the process. 
"The counselor decides how to respond [to an allegation] based 
on a complaint," said Binstock. "The person could simply be 
seeking advice." Most of the situations Binstock comes in 
contact with are on this basic level, where people come in to ask 
for advice on a situation and later report that the advice 
worked. When the allegation calls for more serious action, the 
counselor can take the next step, depending on the level of 
response the situation requires. The counselor can call in the 
accused party or the accused party's supervisor, or refer the 
person to the formal grievance process. In this process, the 
accuser submits a complaint in writing, and the accused has a 
chance to respond. "If it's true, the sanctions are spelled out in 
the policy," said Binstock, "all the way up to dismissal."
The policy is designed, in Binstock's words, "to let someone 
feeling pressure come to someone in the University." So the 
document on the opposite page is more than a policy — it's 
protection.
by Alison Green 
Tartan Magazine Editor
\kär-neg'-e\ ~J

---------------------------------------------------

Three couples are married... with homework
Imagine this scene: Joe and Sue are out on a date, and 
they've just seen a movie at Doherty after getting dinner on 
Craig Street. It's quiet, the wind is blowing through the trees, 
the sky is clear, the stars are out, and they're wandering back 
toward the dorms. There's a lull in the conversation and, for 
Sue, the moment seems right to broach a subject that had been 
taboo until now:
Sue: Joe, there's something I wanted to ask you....
Joe: What is it?
Sue: Well I wondered.... well, we've been going out on a 
kind of regular basis for about a month....
Joe: A month.... yeah, I guess it has been a month al­
ready....
Sue: I was wondering, well if you wanted to....
Joe: Sue, I really like you and....
Sue: And?
Joe: I don't want to sound like a jerk but...
Sue: But what?
Joe: I'm not ready right now, I mean I do like you and
all, but....
It doesn't matter if you've lived through this type of 
conversation or just saw it in a movie. You know what they are 
talking about: commitment. How many times have you heard 
the phrase "men are afraid of commitment?" Probably about 
as many times as you've heard the same thing said about 
women. The matter is especially touchy with us students who 
are just deciding what we want to do with our lives. Honestly, 
when you hear the word "commitment," do you find yourself 
thinking, "how should I know who I want to spend the rest of 
my life with if I don't even know what I want to do after I 
graduate?" Commitment, specifically marriage, is a decision 
that most of us have yet to consider beyond the fanciful dream 
stage when you also contemplate how many kids you want 
and how many zeroes are going to be between the one and the 
decimal point of your paycheck—five, six or seven?
Some students have already passed beyond that dream 
stage, made their decisions, and have taken the "big plunge." 
Suzanne Couturiaux, Mara Cohen Ioannides, Greg Wilson, 
and Leigh Zamich are all graduate students in the English 
department's Masters of Arts in Professional Writing program. 
Beyond their course of study, they share another common
bond: they are each married.
Their marriages have some similarities, yet each is unique. 
Suzanne Couturiaux and her husband Paul were married in 
March of 1986, just two years after she had graduated from 
CMU with her B.S. in Metallurgy. In the four years following 
her graduation from CMU, Suzanne took some business and 
computer science night courses at University of Pittsburgh 
while working full-time as a metallurgical engineer at 
Westinghouse. She said of her marriage, "It was so difficult 
during the semesters I was taking night courses because I was 
not only working eight hours a day but I was in class two or 
four nights out of the week, plus I had homework! We almost 
never saw one another let alone spent much time together."
In the spring of 1990 Suzanne was laid off, a victim of the 
economy. At that point she and her husband had to make a 
decision, "I could go back to school full-time," Suzanne said,
"or look for another engineering job, which would mean that I 
would probably have to go outside of Pittsburgh — I didn't 
want to do that." At the same time, she had to.consider where 
she could find a program in Pittsburgh that would prepare her 
in a field she could be happy with. Carnegie Mellon provided 
an answer. Her husband was very supportive of her decision to 
return to school even though it meant he would have to sup­
port both of them. It also meant Suzanne would lose the 
financial independence to which she had grown accustomed. 
Suzanne said, "I had a job and I could buy what I wanted and 
now I don't have that and I often feel guilty asking for money." 
Her husband is working full-time while she is in school and the 
different time commitments, his job and her schoolwork, 
bothers her: "I always have work to do and I feel guilty because 
we can't spend as much time together as we'd like. My hus­
band leaves his work at the office and I always seem to bring 
something home with me... I also don't have enough time to 
contribute to keeping up the house, I feel guilty about it."
Asked about the benefits of being married, Suzanne empha­
sized how much she enjoys, after a long day at school, coming 
home and having someone to talk to, someone who cares, who 
will listen, and who is, most of all, understanding. "He's very 
understanding because I sometimes feel that my problems at 
school are trite compared to his problems at work," she said.
"Compassion and compromise," is how Mara Cohen 
Ioannides describes her marriage. "Marriage is a delicate
3 \kâr-neg'-ë\

---------------------------------------------------

married... cont’d
balance between housework, schoolwork, and your relation­
ship. It makes you value your time together, it makes it 'quality 
time.'" Mara and her husband, Dimitri, are both students. She 
is a full-time student at CMU, while Dimitri is a Ph.D. candi­
date at Rutgers University, currently writing his thesis here in 
Pittsburgh. Mara refers to their quality time as "our time." They 
make a concerted effort to relax and enjoy each other's com­
pany. It carried over from their dating while she was an under­
graduate at Columbia University and he was at Rutgers work­
ing on his masters degree. She said, "Because we were in 
separate cities, when we got to spend the weekend together we 
had to make sure we gave each other our undivided attention.
It became 'our time'." Today "our time" may be a simple 
pleasure like going out to dinner, renting a movie and watching 
it at home, or something as inane as grocery shopping. In any 
case they spend it together.
The Ioannides also manage to stay on top of an unusual 
financial situation. After moving to Pittsburgh in January, 
Dimitri could not find a job and Mara had to work to pay their 
living expenses. Currently she works part-time at SEI as a 
technical writer in addition to her full schedule of classes. It 
took them both a while to get adjusted to Dimitri not working.
It wasn't a problem with Mara working as much as Dimitri not 
being able to contribute financially. There was the usual social 
pressure, telling them that "the man should work." Dealing 
with that took some getting used to, not simply the idea but the 
practice. They've managed to keep things even between them 
with Dimitri's contribution to the household, where previously 
the roles may have been reversed or the duties shared.
Mara and Dimitri got married in June of 1990, a month after 
her graduation from Columbia. They lived with her parents for 
the rest of the year before moving to Pittsburgh, "Living with 
my parents kept us from realizing the idea of independence 
that we had of being married," Mara said. "It wasn't bad, it's 
just that you think when you get married you'll have your own 
space and you can do what you want. We didn't really have 
that. We had part of the house to ourselves, we shared the 
kitchen and the laundry room with the rest of the family, and 
we built up a feeling of understanding."
The decision to get married was a challenging process for 
them. They felt they shouldn't get married until Mara had 
finished her undergraduate degree, "We felt it was important 
for me to graduate before getting married... for reasons of
maturity and a loss of independence," Mara said. She differen­
tiated the loss of independence from the loss of identity. 
"Marriage isn't a loss of identity," she said. "You don't lose it, 
you kind of join identities, you expand on yourself with this 
person."
The decision to get married has a political dimension to it, 
"There's a lot of political factors you have to take into consider­
ation. The reaction of parents, family, and friends for instance," 
Mara said. While her family and friends were very supportive, 
and took the attitude of "if they're happy, we're happy," one of 
Mara's friends said, "My God! It's like an epidemic, everyone is 
getting married!" She said he was reacting to the fact that Mara 
and Dimitri were one of several couples they knew who had 
decided to get married. Another "political" factor is coordinat­
ing two sets of goals and coordinating them to work together. 
For example, Mara planned on attending CMU in September of 
last year but Dimitri needed to wait until his proposal for his 
dissertation was approved. They decided to stay in New Jersey 
and save money for their move. Mara worked for a temp 
agency while Dimitri worked both on his proposal and as a 
teaching assistant at Rutgers. After his proposal was approved 
they moved to Pittsburgh and she started classes thus giving 
Dimitri time to work on his dissertation.
Mara agrees with Suzanne Couturiaux, "one of the best 
parts of being married is coming home to someone who cares, 
someone to talk to, and most importantly, someone who is 
understanding. Being able to go home and say, 'I have an exam 
that I must study for,' and him saying, 'I understand,' and 
know that he does." She also agrees with Suzanne's statement 
about being at home but not being able to spend time together. 
"Some nights we find ourselves both swamped with work and 
all we can do is sit in the same room and do our work," said 
Suzanne. "That's what makes 'our time' so special."
Greg and Alyson Wilson have a situation similar to the 
Ioannides', since they are both students. However, Greg and 
Alyson both go to CMU. Greg is in the English department and 
Alyson is a Ph.D. candidate in Statistics. "We do get to spend a 
lot of time together, even if it isn't 'quality time.' We commute 
together, we eat lunch together, and we do homework to­
gether." For the Wilsons, quality time is vacations and working 
out at the Caber Club. "Sometimes we can rationalize not going 
to class and that works as quality time too." One of the other
\kar-neg’-e\ C)

---------------------------------------------------

married*.* cont’d
benefits Greg cited of their being in school is knowing that both 
of them are being intellectually challenged, "There aren't many 
job environments that make you feel intellectually challenged 
everyday. It's been good for us because we get a sense that 
we're both growing and neither of us feels that we're outgrow­
ing the other."
On the flip side of the coin they have the same situation as 
his classmates. "We almost always have something to do," said 
Greg. "It's hard to find a time that we're both not buried in 
homework or busy with classes because our schedules don't 
always coincide." They also find that school is constantly on 
their minds and they don't have very many mutual friends 
because their two disciplines have very little in common.
The Wilsons got married three months after graduation in 
1989, Greg from Emory University in Atlanta and Alyson from 
Rice University in Houston. They didn't get married before 
graduation for several reasons, one of the biggest being the 
question of maturity. Greg explained, "When you're 18, you 
ask yourself: 'am I old enough to get married?' and then the 
same question at 19, and 20, and finally around 22 or 23 you 
decide to cross the line... we also wanted to be together, to start 
out together, moving to another city and putting roots down 
together." Why didn't they wait until after graduate school? 
"Graduate school is kind of an ideal world, and if you wait for 
everything in your life to be perfect you'll wait the rest of your 
life." Their parents were supportive of their decision and their 
friends reacted similarly to Ioannides' friend, 'They were 
shocked, standing with gaping mouths, in disbelief that we 
were going to do something that was stereotypically an adult, 
grown up thing to do."
Leigh Zamich and her husband, George, have been mar­
ried for five years. They got married during the fall semester of 
her junior year at Edinboro University. She laughed about it. "It 
was funny," Leigh said. "I went home on a Friday, got married, 
and then came back to school the next Tuesday. My friends 
kept saying, 'you can't plan a wedding, be in school, and be 
editor of the newspaper; it's just impossible!"'
Despite her friends' concerns they did. The warnings her 
friends gave were supportive; they saw it as a natural progres­
sion because she and George had been dating since she was 15. 
Leigh's parents weren't nearly as positive that she and George 
had made the right decision. "They said, 'oh, you'll never finish 
school, you'll have 2.5 kids, you'll be miserable, you won't find 
a job, and you'll be a housewife the rest of your life.' They were 
just concerned that I would never reach my full potential."
Leigh has always believed, "If you can do something when 
you're single, there's no reason why you can't do it when 
you're married; there's someone there to help you do it." Since 
she's been married this view has changed slightly. "I admit it, I 
was silly, young, and in love. I would tell anyone who is 
thinking of getting married now, while you're still in school, to 
wait. People don't understand it but you need time away from 
your family, your spouse, and your friends. You need that time 
alone to grow up and you should have it before you give up the 
chance by getting married. Once you're married, it's a game of 
compromise, you're always asking each other to make a 
compromise in one form or another."
After their marriage in October of 1986, Leigh finished the 
semester at Edinboro. Their first compromise involved moving 
to New Jersey, where George had found a job with Electronic 
Data Systems (EDS). We wanted to be together and we didn't 
want to wait until I graduated, so I transferred." She finished 
her undergraduate work at Farleigh-Dickinson in May, 1989 
and then went to work for EDS in Texas. It wasn't until Febru­
ary of last year that they were back together again in Harris­
burg, PA. George transferred from New Jersey and Leigh left 
EDS so that they could be together again. It was in Harrisburg 
that Leigh decided she wanted to go back to school. She moved 
in with her parents here in Pittsburgh and started classes in 
August.
While Leigh is in school here, George is going to Penn State 
part-time for his M.B.A. and continues to work as a program­
mer for EDS. Leigh agrees with her classmates about the benefit 
of having someone to talk to and hold on to, sometimes even to 
pamper her. Although no matter how much she agrees with 
that point, she has a different perspective on school and mar­
riage than her classmates. "We both want careers that we can 
be happy with and that's why I'm at CMU.
"When you're in school you have to be selfish, you have to 
concentrate on your studies and you can't let it bother you. If 
you do, you'll feel guilty because you want to be with your 
spouse and you can't and at the same time you can't concen­
trate on your work because you're worried about them. If it 
gets too bad you will start to resent school for keeping you 
apart, and ultimately you will resent your spouse for not being 
here when you need them.
"What keeps you going is that you know you're doing it so, 
someday, you can be together and be happy with both your job 
and each other. Until that day comes you have to be selfish." 
Currently George is looking for a job in Pittsburgh. They hope 
to be reunited before the fall semester begins.
by Alan Sloan 
Tartan Staffwriter
20 \kar-neg'-e\

---------------------------------------------------

Male group works to eliminate pornography
After attending a conference in Georgia about rape and 
pornography, members of the Pittsburgh Men's Collective 
formed a group in January called Men Against Rape and 
Pornography. MARAP members meet each month to discuss 
and organize activities in the hope of eliminating rape and the 
explicit pornography that they believe contributes to rape.
According to MARAP member Michael Naim, the confer­
ence outlined the serious extent of rape and showed that 
current trends in the pornographic film industry reinforce 
societal elements that lead to rape. "One in three women will be 
raped in a lifetime," said Nairn, "And we think that there is a 
playing out of that domination between men and women in 
pornography." He added that the group objects to the demean­
ing aspects of hardcore pornography, as opposed to nude 
pictorals, for example.
During meetings, MARAP members discuss personal 
experiences with pornography and rape. According to Nairn, 
members talk about pornography they have seen in the past 
and its characteristics. Some members are rape victims, and 
they share their experiences. Though the group focuses on the 
rape of women, members also discuss the rape of men in 
relation to pornography. "We've also been reading [the works 
of] feminist thinkers, like Andrea Dworkin," said Nairn. "Both 
pornography and rape are the objectification of women."
MARAP has several activities planned for the future.
"We're hoping to form a speaker's group for high schools," 
said Nairn, "and we've approached several schools already." 
Members will also join Pittsburgh's Take Back the Night March,
a rape protest planned by a national womens' organization.
"It's dangerous for women to walk alone at night," Nairn said.
Of special interest to MARAP is a legal brief called the 
Dworkin-Mackinnon Act, enacted for a time in Minnesota. 
Dworkin and sociologist Catherine Mackinnon drew up an 
ordinance that cited pornography as discrimination against 
women. The ordinance enabled women who believed they had 
been portrayed in a pornographic fashion to pursue discrimina­
tion charges with the Civil Rights commission. If was declared 
unconstitutional in 1985. MARAP is considering various ways 
of educating people about the consequences of pornography. 
Said Nairn, "You may be watching a pornographic video where 
a person is actually being raped. Linda Lovelace brought action 
against her husband, who made the only pom film she ever 
did [and raped her in the film]."
Because pornography is so prevalent, the dangers of rape 
within adult movies and instigated by adult movies are multi­
plied, Naim believes. "Pornographic films alone are a twenty- 
five million dollar industry," Nairn said.
MARAP believes that rape is a result of demeaning people 
and objectifying them. Pornography devoted to violent or 
power-based fornication perpetuates a system of human 
interaction that makes rape more likely in society. In this 
respect, MARAP bases its educational activities on the writings 
of some modem feminists.
by Dan Gallagher 
Tartan Staffwriter
\kar-neg'-e\
Alison Green
Tartan Magazine Editor
Azleena Salleh
Tartan Assistant Magazine Editor
Staffwriters and other helpful people:
Justine Dymond Eric Fisk
Dan Gallagher Heidi Hoover
Jen Kerstein John Lin
Jill Raab Michele Sarko
Laura Sibley Alan Sloan
Michelle Yates
1991 © copyright The Tartan
\kär-neg'-€\ \ \

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Vol. 12 No.6
Senior
Portfolio
1991
44 Last Tango in Pittsburgh ”

---------------------------------------------------

Dsvvo bs2s ps u2sT lbs vu,I Dossier r,,gs 81 Ibs ysu2T c82 7so rI pu, u ysu2 1rvvsm prIb drdrm 
7s782rs, f 2sumrCi Ibs ,gn7r,,r8C,o .gIIrCi Ibs 7uiuqrCs I8isIbs2o v885rCi uI Ibs 1rCuv .28mgVIT UgI 
Ibs 8Cs 787sCI IbuI prvv uvpuy, buds u ,.sVruv .vuVs rC 7y bsu2I bu..sCsm un8gI u 78CIb ui8T Q 
puv5sm QCI8 982sp88m /u2msC, I8 .rV5 g. r,,gs à-T lp8 igy, bum uv2sumy .rV5sm g. Ibsr2 V8.rs, 81 
lbs lu2IuCo uCm ps2s bsumrCi g. Ibs ,Iur2,T !Cs ,urm I8 Ibs 8Ibs2o •Nsyo y8g sds2 2sum Ibs Dossier?" 
lbs 8Ibs2 2s.vrsmo prIb u IrCis 81 buI2sm rC br, d8rVso •A8T Asds2T<
L,rms 1287 IbuI igyo Q b8.s Ibs 2s,I 81 y8g buds sC|8ysm Dossier, nsVug,s Q Vs2IurCvy sC|8ysm 
p825rCi 8C rIT Ds*ds bum uvv ,82I, 81 p2rIrCi 1287 uvv ,82I, 81 .s8.vsT Q 7ums rI u .8rCI I8 C8I rCVvgms 
p825 1287 Ibs ,u7s .s2,8C 782s IbuC 8CVsT MkVs.I 7so 81 V8g2,sT UgI Ibs 1uVI IbuI ps V8gvm .gvv 811 
Ibr, XC8 2s.suI• 2gvs ,uy, u v8I un8gI Ibs vu2is Cg7ns2 81 IuvsCIsm p2rIs2, ps buds 8C Ibr, Vu7.g,T
lbr, Q,,gs Q, s,.sVruvvy r7.82IuCI I8 7sT QI r, skVvg,rdsvy p825 1287 ,sCr82 V2suIrds p2rIs2,o uCm 
Ibs XC8 2s.suI< 2gvs bu, nssC purdsmT Q .gI Ibr, Q,,gs I8isIbs2 182 Ib2ss 2su,8C,T !Cso Ibs,s p2rIs2, 
buds nssC b8CrCi Ibsr2 ,5rvv, 182 18g2 ysu2,o uCm Q puCI y8g I8 ,ss Ibs 12grI, 81 Ibsr2 vun82T lp8o Q*m vr5s 
uvv 8g2 2sums2, I8 ,ss Ibs i2suI mrds2,rIy IbuI skr,I, rC Ibs,s p2rIs2,W p825T LCm Ib2sso 8mm, u2s IbuI u 
1sp 81 Ibs,s .s8.vs prvv nsV87s 1u78g,o uCm Q VuC ,uyo •Q .gnvr,bsm y8g pbsC y8g ps2s C8n8myo< uCm 
IbsyWvv irds 7s u |8nT
QC ummrIr8C I8 uvv Ibs ,sCr82,* p825o ps buds u ds2y ,.sVruv 1suIg2s Ibr, 78CIbT S822urCs 9rvvs2 
bu, QCIs2drspsm C8Ism ugIb82 uCm uvvfu28gCm i88m igy Sspr, •Ugmmy< A82muCT Q igu2uCIss y8g*vv sC|8y 
QIT
!g2 1suIg2sm I8.rV 81 Ibs 78CIb r, t8u2rCi w.2rCio PsCC,yvduCruT QWds Csds2 nssC Ibs2s' Q*7 C8I 
sdsC ,g2s pbs2s rI r,o uvIb8gib Q bsu2 rI*, Csu2 LvI88CuT lbs 8Cvy IbrCi Q m8 5C8p Q, IbuI sds2y ,.r2uv 
C8Isn885 QWds g,sm ,rCVs brib ,Vb88v bu, nssC 7ums Ibs2sT Dossier ,uvgIs, Ibs 1rCs .s8.vs 81 
t8u2rCi w.2rCiT
c82 Ib8,s 81 y8g pb8Wvv ns u28gCm CskI ysu2o Q*7 vsudrCi Ibs vrIs2u2y ,rms 81 Dossier QC Ibs 
Vu.unvs buCm, 81 lu7u2u Srsns2IT wbs*, u 1rCs p2rIs2o uCm QW7 ,g2s ,bs*vv 7u5s u ,g.s2n smrI82T UgI 
78,I Q7.82IuCIvyo bs2 vu,I Cu7s sCm, rC •ns2I<o |g,I vr5s 7rCsT
Q VuC*I vsuds prIb8gI u 1sp IbuC5 y8g,T lbuC5, I8 ab2r, wbrsvm, uCm br, 1svv8p ms,riCs2,o pb8 
7ums uvv Ibs r,,gs, v885 i2suIT lbuC5, I8 Ibs lu2IuC ,Iu11o pb8 ps2s uvpuy, ds2y bsv.1gvT lbuC5, I8 
9r5s D88m2rCi uCm LCm2sp cr8gibI8Co pb8 bsv.sm 7s 7u5s Ibs Dossier .8,IVu2m,o pbrVb Q ,Irvv buds 
un8gI (’’ 81o Q1 uCyn8my puCI, 8CsT lbuC5, I8 sds2y8Cs pb8 ,gn7rIIsm p825fE sC|8ysm 2sumrCi uvv 81 
QIo uCm 8Cvy pr,b Q V8gvm buds .2rCIsm 782sT lbuC5, I8 sds2y8Cs pb8 2sum Dossier-tbe 78,I Q7.82IuCI 
IbrCi I8 7s pu, 182 u, 7uCy .s8.vs u, .8,,rnvs I8 sC|8y Ibs 7uiuqrCsT LCm IbuC5, I8 0uC5ss vsisCm 
Pbrv trqqgI8T crs mrmCWI uVIguvvy m8 uCyIbrCi 182 Dossier. Q |g,I puCIsm I8 IbuC5 br7T
!5uyo Q*7 vsudrCiT Q buIs I8 i8o ngI Q buds I8T MC|8y Ibs r,,gso 5ss. 2sumrCi uCm p2rIrCio uCm 
m2rds ,u1svyT
£uV5 wvvns2I
Literary Editor: Jack Silbert 
Design Editor: Chris Shields
a8.y2ribI ? ERRE lbs lu2IuCo A8p Pr,, 811 uCm 2sum Ibs i88m ,Ig11T

---------------------------------------------------

.Ulmw oH Woshwshg
LC skVs2.I 1287 We wurm Mother 
p82m, f £sCCr1s2 UuCCuC 
ms,riC f LC8Cy78g,
Letter without Address
p82m, f eupC U28,8C,5r 
ms,riC f 0uCi wT Gr7
Submersion (Summer,1989)
p82m, f eu2vsCs c8qu2m 
ms,riC f Sug2u ­rCVbs,r
Autumn Evenings with 78Ibs2 
p82m, f AuCVy £T /vsu,8C 
ms,riC f 9svr,,u GrCi7uC
LC skVs2.I 1287 Birthday 
p82m, f lb87u, •wIuC• 9g,ruv 
ms,riC f LC8Cy78g,
LC skVs2.I 1287 The Errand Boy 
p82m, f c2uC5 As.u 
ms,riC f PuI2rVru cv88m
Seven Summers
p82m, f M2r5u ST PsIs2,8C 
ms,riC f SurCrs 9ryu78I8
The Barr Effect
p82m, f 9rVbusv lT t8,s 
ms,riC f Pugvu 9ummsC
LC skVs2.I 1287 Scum of the Earth 
p82m, f £udrs2 /2rvv8 9u2kguVb 
ms,riC f ab2r,I8.bs2 wbrsvm,
My Mugger
p82m, f rvqs Gsvs2, 
ms,riC f cvsC2y Gr7
Meeting Li Po in Heaven
p82m, f t8C Sss 
ms,riC f cvsuIbs2 Sr
The Silent Serpent Wriggled Through 
The Grass at an Indecent Speed
D82m, f abgV5 SgmrC,5y 
ms,riC f ab2r,I8.bs2 wbrsvm,
LC skVs2.I 1287 The Headhunters Club
p82m, f 9uII 9uVGsCqrs 
ms,riC f Gsvvsy Lvns2I
Author Buddy Nordan 
and His Invisible Friends
p82m, f S822urCs 9rvvs2 
ms,riC f SrCmu ab2r,IsC,8C
So You Want to be a Rock 81 Roll Star
^uC s,,uy\
p82m, f £uV5 wrvns2I
ms,riC f ab2r,I8.bs2 wbrsvm,
I have a raw Fear
p82m, f £u,8C w785s2 
ms,riC f £8s Sut8Vbs
Awake in the Turning Season
p82m, f ab2r,I8.bs2 lb87u, 
ms,riC f Sru auvb8gC
Picking Out a Toothbrush in Store 24
p82m, f GT 9rVbusv lb87u, 
ms,riC f SrCmu ab2r,IsC,8C
LC skVs2.I 1287 Sex and Death in Planktown
p82m, f £8bC ­2s,rv8drV 
ms,riC f LC8Cy78g,
LC skVs2.I 1287 I Know the Scenario by Heart
p82m, f £8bCuIbuC DsrmvrCis2 
ms,riC f 9u2ru GvsrC
LC skVs2.I 1287 My Brother, the Fugitive
p82m, f 9uII DsCi2urIr, 
ms,riC f LC8Cy78g,

---------------------------------------------------

£sCCr1s2 UuCCuC
LC skVs2.I 1287 XDs wurm 98Ibs2-
Ds ,urm X98Ibs2< u v8IT Ds m2uiism 8gI Ibs 
p82m rCI8 u 78uCo ,V2gCVbsm g. 8g2 1uVs,o ,b885 8g2 
bsum,o ,vu..sm Ir2sm y8gCi buCm, 8CI8 8g2 182sbsum,T 
Ds ,urmo XDs VuC*I psu2 Ib8,s V2uqy 8gI1rI,o sds2y 8Cs 
uI ,Vb88v prvv vugibT< Ds ,urmo XPvsu,so .vsu,s m8C*I 
i8 I8 Ibs .u2sCIfIsuVbs2 7ssIrCiT Ds m8C*I puCI 
msIurvsm uCuI87y mrui2u7, rC 8g2 IskIn885,T< Ds 
,urmo XA8o C8o ps m8CWI puCI u nr2Ibmuy .u2Iy Ibr, ysu2T< 
Ds 1su2sm IbuI ,bs p8gvm p8gvm ,s2ds 8gIvuCmr,b 
c2sCVb b82, m*8s2ds, I8 8g2 12rsCm, pb8 puCIsm rVs 
V2su7T Ds 7u2dsvsm uI bs2 2rmrVgv8g, .8vrIrVuv rmsu, 
,.8gIsm 8ds2 Ibs mrCCs2 IunvsT Ds p822rsm un8gI pbuI 
,bs p82s I8 Ibs i28Vs2y ,I82sT
DbsC ps V8gvmo ps ud8rmsm bs2T c287 Ibs 
787sCI ps gCms2,I88m pbuI u C827uv 78Ibs2 pu, 
,g..8,sm I8 nso ps Csds2 n28gibI uC8Ibs2 Vbrvm QCI8 
Ibs b8g,sT lb8,s 81 g, pb8 ps2s y8gCis2 ps2s 
IugibI b8p I8 5ss. :grsI un8gI bs2 ny Ib8,s 81 g, pb8 
ps2s 8vms2T
LCm pbsC ps ps2s uvv 8vms2o uCm bum 18gCm 8g2 
8pC CrVbs, rC vr1s_ 8Cs m8VI82o Ip8 b87s7u5s2,o 8Cs 
Iurv82 uCm u .2rCIs2o ps vsu2Csm IbuI Ibs2s ps2s 7suz
,g2s, I8 ns Iu5sC un8gI bs2T
Ds bum mrCCs2 .u2Irs, 81IsCo 7ums Vv8,sf5CrI ny 
8g2 7gIguv nss1T
Xe8 y8g 2s7s7ns2 Ibs Ir7s 81 Ibs iruCI .rC5 
.8v5ufm8I buI& lbs psmmrCi ps ps2s m2uiism I8& 
DbsC ,bs ,pu7 rC Ibs PsIs2,8C*, .88v 1gvvy Vv8Ibsm&< 
XDu, ,bs m2gC5&<
XA8o 78Ibs2 Csds2 m2rC5,T•
XLbo ys,o IbuI*, 2ribIT wbs Csds2 m2rC5,T<
Xe8 y8g IbrC5 ,bs m8s, m2gi,& !1 Ibs vsiuv ,82I 
.s2bu.,&<
XA8o Q m8C*I IbrC5 ,8T<
XUgI .s2bu., ,bs*, rC,uCs& e8 y8g IbrC5 ,bs 
7ribI ns&<
XUgIo 2suvvyT wbs bu,C*I bg2I uCy8CsT•
X0s,o ngI pby ,b8gvm ps .gI g. prIb rI& Q Vuvvsm 
bs2 |g,I Ibs 8Ibs2 muyo uCm ,bs p8gvmC*I nsvrsds rI pu, 
7sT QI I885 ,87s V8CdrCVrCi bs2T<
X0s,o ngI b8p 81IsC m8 y8g Vuvv&<
XQ 7u5s u .8rCI 81 VuvvrCi bs2 8CVs u 78CIbT
£g,I I8 ,ss b8p ,bsW, isIIrCi uv8CiT•
XDs ,b8gvm uvv 7u5s Ibs .8rCI 81 visiting bs2 
782s 81IsCT wbs vrds, prIbrC uC b8g2 81 uvv 81 g,T<
XA8p vr,IsCo Q v8ds 78Ibs2T Ds uvv m8T UgI pb8 
bu, Ibs Ir7s 182 bs2 C8C,sC,so 2suvvy& lbs vu,I Ir7s Q 
psCI I8 ,ss bs2o |g,I un8gI u ysu2 ui8o ,bs bum 1r1Iy 
2unnrI, uCm u .rI ngvv vrdrCi prIb bs2T Q ,psu2 I8 rIT•
Xcv8p mrm ps V87s 8gI uvv 2ribI& Q uvpuy, u,5 
IbuI :gs,Ir8CT cv8p mrm ps V87s 8gI uvv 2ribI&•
X9g,I ns ,87s .,yVb8v8iy I8 rIT<
Xes1rCrIsvy rC ,.rIs 81 bs2o Q uvpuy, ,uyT•
XQC ,.rIs 81 bs2o C8 m8gnIT<
Ds ui2ssm I8 dr,rI bs2 8C bs2 sribIrsIb nr2IbmuyT 
Ds 7ums .rs, uCm Vu5s,T Ds n8gibI skI2uduiuCI 
ir1I,T Ds 7sI rrC u i28Vs2y ,I82s .u25rCi v8I uCm m28ds 
I8isIbs2o C8Cs 81 g, puCIrCi I8 u22rds 1r2,Io 182Vsm I8 ,rI 
uv8Cs prIb bs2T Ds V87.vr7sCIsm suVb 8Ibs2 8C 8g2 
Vb8rVs rC m2s,, uCm ps ps2s 8C 8g2 puyT Ds .gvvsm 
rCI8 bs2 m2rdspuy uI C88CT wbs purIsm 182 g, 8C Ibs 
128CI .82Vbo u irvu,, 81 ,87sIbrCi .g2.vs QC bs2 buCmT 
wbs p82s i2suI i8n, 81 nvgs sys,bum8po .s21sVI 
Vr2Vvs, 81 V82uv 28gis 8C bs2 Vbss5,T Su2is 2unnrI, ,uI 
8C Ibs .82Vb ,Irs.,o gCms2 bs2 Vbur2o rC bs2 vu.o 8C bs2 
,b8gvms2,T Ds ,urmo Xcvsvv8o 78Ibs2T< wbs C8mmsmT
wbs ,I88m uCm bs2 m2s,, p8nnvsm uCm ,I2uribIsCsm 
u28gCm bs2T QI pu, uC8Ibs2 81 bs2 V2suIr8C,T /ruCI

---------------------------------------------------

b88., nsiuC uI bs2 pur,I uCm Vr2Vvsm bs2 m8pC I8 bs2 
1ssIT LI vsu,I ,rk b88.,o prIb 8Cvy u IbrC 1v82uv .rsVs 81 
V8II8C 7uIs2ruv V8ds2rCi Ibs7T lbs b88., i8gism Ibs 
7uIs2ruv vr5s 8vm n2rIIvs n8Cs,o ,sCmrCi u Vbrvv Ib28gib 
g, uvvT
XDbuI u v8dsvy m2s,,o< ps ,urmo budrCi .2sdrz
8g,vy d8psm I8 ns 5rCmT
wbs igrmsm g, rC,rmsT 98Ibs2 bum nssC 7u5rCi 
1g2CrIg2s V8ds2rCi, 8gI 81 7uIs2ruv 2uCirCi 1287 2rVb 
n28Vums, I8 ws,u7s wI2ssI ,bssI,T wbs .vuCCsm I8 
.gI uvv Ibs mr11s2sCI g.b8v,Is2rs, 8C Ibs 1g2CrIg2s rC Ibs 
vrdrCi 2887T wbs bum 8Ibs2, 2sumy 182 Ibs nsm2887,o 
,bs ,urmT lb8,s ps2s g.,Iur2,T wbs bum nr2m, C8p u, 
psvvo ps C8IrVsmo u, Ibs .rI ngvv Cgqqvsm 8g2 V28IVbs,T 
w.u228p,o 1rCVbs, uCm 8Ibs2 ,7uvv nr2m, 1vsp un8gI Ibs 
b8g,s 12ssvyT wbs Vvur7sm I8 buds I2urCsm Ibs7 I8 i8 
QC Ibs VuisT LI vsu,I 8Cs 81 g,o b8psds2o 18gCm u 
m28..rCiT
w87s 81 g, ps2s uvvs2irV I8 Ibs uCr7uv,o uCm 
,giis,Ism IbuI ps Vu22y Ibs .u2Iy I8 Ibs nuV5yu2mT 
98Ibs2 ui2ssm uCm vsm g, 8gI,rmso pbs2s ps 18gCm bs2 
pu,bs2 uCm m2ys2o u ir1I 1287 g, vu,I ab2r,I7u,o Vbg2Cz
rCi 8gI rC Ibs 7rmmvs 81 Ibs yu2mT w87s 81 g, nsVu7s 
uCi2y uCm V8gvm C8I b8vm nuV5T XDbyo Ibs IbrCi, prvv 
2g,I 8gI Ibs2so 78Ibs2Y< w87s 81 g, rC,.sVIsm Ibs 
skIsC,r8C V82m ,bs bum 2gCCrCi 1287 Ibs b8g,so uCm 
Ib8gib ps 18gCm QI ,Ig2myo ps ,b885 8g2 bsum,T cssvz
rCi IbuI rI 7ribI ns ns,I I8 uIIuV5 Ibs ,rIguIr8C 1287 bs2 
.s2,.sVIrdso 8Cs 81 g,o Ibs Iurv82o ,urmo $lbs m8i 7ribI 
I2r. 8ds2 Ibr, V82mo 78Ibs2T< Ds ,g2dsysm Ibs u2su uCm 
C8IrVsm IbuI ,bs bum u22uCism u ,I8Cy puv5 1287 Ibs 
b8g,s I8 Ibs pu,bs2 uCm m2ys2o 1vuI 28V5, sCVr2VvrCi Ibs 
u..vruCVs, u, Q1 Ibsy ps2s ,87s ,uV2r1rVuv uvIu2T
Ds v885sm QC p8Cms2 uI bs2 vupCT !Cs ,:gu2s
81 QI pu, uvv i2udsvo prIb .vu,IrV .rC5 1vu7rCi8, 128qsC QC 
Ibsr2 IsCIuIrds ,Is.,T LC8Ibs2 ,:gu2s bsvm u VuVIg, 
iu2msCT wbs bum 82Vbrm, buCirCi uCm Vg2vrCi g. 
u28gCm Ibs ,:gu2s 81 yu2m IbuI bsvm Ibs 8u5 I2ssT
Mds2y ,sVIr8C 81 Ibs yu2m bum u mr11s2sCI Ibs7s_ 8Cs 
prIb is87sI2rVuvvy VgI ,b2gn,o uC8Ibs2 prIb u n8C,ur 
V8vvsVIr8Co uCm ysI uC8Ibs2 8ds2i28pC prIb drCs, uCm 
pssm,T Lvv ps2s ,I2rVIvy VgI 811 1287 suVb 8Ibs2 ny Ibs 
1vuI ,I8Cs,o uCm ,87s 81 g, ps2s 2s7rCmsm 81 Vbrvm2sC 
pb8 2s1g,s I8 vsI Ibsr2 .su, uCm .8IuI8s, I8gVb Ibsr2 
7suIT
Ds ,uI m8pC uI Ibs V8CV2sIs ,vun ,:gu2so 
82Cu7sCIsm prIb b8If.rC5 .uIr8 Vbur2,T Ds ,vrVsm rCI8 
Ibs .rs, uCm Vu5s, uCm buCmsm 78Ibs2 8g2 ir1I,T wbs 
,ss7sm C8I I8 u..2sVruIs Ibs7 u, ,bs ,b8gvm budso 
Ib8gib ,bs ,7rvsmT Ds nrI uI 8g2 vr., uCm ,I2uribIsCsm 
8g2 Vv8IbrCi u, ,bs Vu2s1gvvy p2u..sm suVb .uV5uis 
nuV5 u, QI bum nssC buCmsm I8 bs2o sk.vurCrCi IbuI ,bs 
V8gvmC*I nsu2 I8 vsuds Ibs u2I1gv p2u..rCi, 2grCsmT
QI pu, i8rCi 2uIbs2 psvvT Ds VbuIIsm u, psvv u, 
ps V8gvmT wbs C8mmsm uCm ,7rvsm uCm .uIIsm bs2 
VuI,T lbs uvvs2irV u78Ci g, 8Cvy 8VVu,r8Cuvvy 
,CssqsmT
lbsC ,gmmsCvy QI bu..sCsmT !Cs 81 g,o Ibs 
m8VI82o bum bum I88 7uCy ivu,,s, 81 prCs uCmo v885rCi 
u28gCm Ibs yu2m prIb uC u7g,sm ,7rvso ,urmo X08g 
2suvvy u2s CgI,o 78Ibs2o y8g 5C8p&•
XN8p ,8&< ,bs u,5smo ,7rvrCi nuV5 uI g,T
Xlbr, vupCT !bo rI*, |g,Io< ps uvv vugibsm Cs2z
d8g,vyo XrI*, ,r7.vy V2uqyT Q p8Cms2 b8p ps*vv sds2 ns 
unvs I8 ,svv Ibs b8g,s pbsC y8g*2s i8CsT<
Ds uvv 7ums 7sCIuv C8Is, I8 Vbu,Ir,s 8g2,svds, 
182 Ibr, bsu2Ivs,, V877sCIT

---------------------------------------------------

letter without address
HOW MANY YEARS, ALAN, HAS IT BEEN 
SINCE YOU WERE YELLED AT, KICKED, BEATEN, 
SO MUCH YOU WERE AFRAID TO SLEEP 
IN A ROOM WITH BARE WALLS AND AN OPEN DOOR 
THAT I WAS NEVER ALLOWED TO PASS THROUGH? 
I FINALLY BROKE IT DOWN BECAUSE 
I WANTED TO FIND THE PAINTED LINES ON YOUR FACE.
I WISH I COULD TOUCH THE RED THE GREEN THE BLUE. 
THEY COULD TELL ME WHO YOU ARE NOW: 
A LOVER, SCHEMER, PROTECTOR, KILLER. 
YOU COULD BE ANY OF THESE THINGS 
YOU COULD ANSWER MY QUESTIONS 
WHEN YOU DECIDED TO LEAVE US, 
WAS IT THE SLAP ITSELF OR WAS IT 
THE STAIN THE HANDPRINT LEFT 
THAT MADE YOU RUN?

---------------------------------------------------

’:»¦ 1-.V-J!9Îr;f:<iKèv --î-‘. • -••>•¦.-. ;.
Submersion (Summer 1989)
Q .u,, Ib28gib mu25 uCm ,rvsCI ,I2ssI,
v8 1rds ngV5, uC b8g2 uCm Ibr2mfI2rV5 mgIy
uI Ibs P8,I !11rVsT Q nsV87s ,Issv uI 7rmCribIo V88v
2V,sCv7sCv I8 Ibs vr7s Vv8V5*, ,v8p uCm sdsC
IrV5T Q v8,, .uV5 u1rs2 .uV5 81 ,pss.,Iu5s,
prCCs2 C8rrVs, rCv8 VuCdu, ,u1uV5,o
Ibsr2 ms,IrCuIr8C, u vrIuCy_
Asbuillc, /:alleritimber, Spruce Creek.
eupC n2rCi, Ibs Vu22rs2, uCm rbsr2 ms,r2sT lbsy .287r,s 
duVuIr8C muy, uCm IrV5sI, v8 £u7s, luyv82T Q u7 bur2 
8C rbsr2 Vbs,I, uCm u nss2 rC rbVr2 buCm,T vrdsC rbs .8,I7u,Is2 
muCVs, 7s u28gCm Ibs s7.ry s:gr.7sCI 2887o .2s,,rCi 
7s prrb CssmT
lbs rC5 Csds2 V87s, 8gvo 
i2uy .ri7sCr ,8u5sm ,8 mss. rr r, rC,rms 7so 
u 1rv7 uV28,, 7y bsu2IT DbsC Q V87s b87s 
7y 78Ibs2 Isvv, 7so •08g v885 Ir2smT•
wbs Iu5s, 7s v8 9u,, pbs2s 7y bsum ,Cu., rC ,.u,7, 
81 ,vss.o r m8 C8r IbrC5 /8m 7rCm, Ibr,' Q buds nssC IsIbs2sm 
v8 E 97 prrb u 28.s pbrVb prvv 8gvvu,I uvv ,g77s2,T
DbsC Q vrs rI r, 182 rp8o Ib2sso ,87sIr7s, ,rk b8g2,T
9y 7rCm Ib28p, 7urv_
Cresson, linlrikeno Waterfall.
Q buds C8I ,vs.I 182 pss5,T w87sIr7s, Q m2r1I Ib28gib 
Ibs b8g,s vr5s u ib8,Io vr5s u ,pr77s2 gCms2 puIs2T
Q buds C8I ,ssC 7gVb 81 7y 12rsCm,T E u7 8Cvy 7r,,rCi 
82iu,7rV .uCI, uCm nsvVbs,o ,I82rs, 81 ,sk rC u I2gV5o 
Ibs su2Cs,I uCm :gs2yrCi iuqs 81 7y 1svv8p dr2irCT
DbsC E u..su2 8C rbs b88m 81 9rVbsvs*, absdy uCm ,bu2s rVs V2su7
prrb Ibs7o Q u7 psvV87sm prIb 2s,sCI1gv ,7rvs,T lbsy 2s7rCm 7s
81 rbs p87sC pb8 p825 Ibs 1r2,IfVvu,, vsIIs2,o ,rvsCIvy uVVg,rCi
7y rbr2,I 182 b8vrCs,,o 7Wy ,pr7 .u,r Ibs n8nnrCi 28.s
81 rbsr2 V8vvsVIrds dr2IgsT !gI v8gmo
Ibsy Isvv 7s Q u7 ,5rCCy uCm IbuI Q v885 vr2smT
Q buds u Csp n8y12rsCmo pb8 r, CrVsT
Drrb br7 E u7 CsrIbs2 I88 ,I28Ci 
C82 I88 psu5T Q vs r, rbr2,Iyo I88T
!C 7y muy 811o bs vu5s, 7s I8 mrCCs2 uCm ps vrCis2 
8ds2 rVsm vsu,T L1Is2pu2m,o Q u7 g,guvvy unvs v8 ,vss.T
UgIo pbsC Q pu5s Q u7 uvpuy, VbuCIrCi_
Bellwoodo Gallilzin, Roaring Spring.
Q ,.sCm Ibs ,g77s2 V8gCIrCio
V8gCIrCi b8g2, 8C 7y 1ssIo b8g2, 8C 7y nuV5o b8g2, Q u7
upu5sT !Cs 81 Ibs Vu22rs2, bu, u VuvsCmu2 prIb .rVIg2s, 81 vsmmy
nsu2, budrCi ,skBrC ,b8..rCi Vu2I,o rC Vu2 ,suI,o Ibsr2 sys, mu25o rbsr2 ,7rvs,
,IrIVbsm rC ,uIr,1uVIr8CT Q g,s rI I8 V8gCI muy, gCIrv Q VuC ,g21uVs
1287 Ibs mss. puIs2 81 Ibr, ,g77s2T E V8gCI
2sm ,vu,bs, rC pbrIs ,:gu2s,T
Darlene Fozard

---------------------------------------------------

V^ÖTi 4Ane. y\cX-S \\\> >TiO lonc^n
^wdîH,dV2 f¥C&2ô\«^ÿL H8HsT DCIf- uCm vsH,o 
e>vo^ ^0^5 Wb\A¿,e. cvn<\ TpWcVv-e.'b <*
oj^a\-ntA~ -VVyç, VolumVem85,I Vaycà Vw^ -fbA-her -//
v)Ÿ-^>v‘^' -Vne. <k(h^rT \^vE> +v-\ö\V)e,C'
0í^0v>r>¿^ J'He. V^rVcNi-e^ stu djrp'P'e.c~
a­JV\ ­&:­H4HT Supper \\^ \
¡S ready! I don't want you out there any longer! j
rie -+^.\e.t> Av'ivift 4he* voit.e. d?-^\5 tmc^e+* ^ \ \the. Voutrup oF^C.ô.'V'Ç.s.
nboylc Voovc^Vfc Vtf. CA-r>* ^-VçV\ Vi\^>
$ M"haS> We*% a XOncy^0^ ) cvnd, -txxi^baW
CÍT ibV>v& CcWoC'^. Vte. dveoi^ne, of" txxs^^W
^(ycne.'b - "hoV ck»Æ> T^f^Q <l& -t^tV^öv c\ 5O*S}
^ ffeacYnjV Ö.V 4Ve\-0 ö' lrf+ -Q-crrO Vp^ Çç^Êr
Th f*I> (\ ha&8­k\ KW.u9f 9 ô2«) Vc $nx!Æ8C l»WHH öTdVrEH v8.8H*H
H fI­»s| V7v) )rVLH­T D2 sk|a8!o H Q 8a \e6t\jcf,)
£* asA ‘So&r'c. i>€ÆrcV -mot^r
v
-p
\X
vJoMcWfV <^e*r. M- -V^e v4Mov4 seç^V^s
L, ^ ^^C^,'ncr-Vt> ^^'ro -to -vo^v -H^-Va^'oaAl ^-\
V O^S • tasted3^6 6cv ^i/¡^ \<¡xwe^ N Ä ^T 9r-HI8wC<\ u\8dC DHIC fNrsT p«r4 s2od ,do..1C h
UP vnvii^ Wer /67r ^ g ^e. jç^ I
£ IW «> **• a«t<*X ^ ^y.s +*, ^ ^ /'
£ ^ -nf cwntW.v^tt^H 4\vortt.^™*W X
u e85,I lH vuCrG­
h<L hc ,-V ; c.U-^ball
sî\ <yp^n^- ^Cj^VW 000<\ ÇjOP "tc» V4T»Gcl H ÖOV foT 3u f^T'Ç^r-
V-N if -V^c.Votnç_ -Ve/Vpn- Ws ­ V^V>€.v\ ^Writeta
5 -PÛVI ÄöjOrt'W j tV>q coiXàfe 'Vcx'ce. -tW, \e6V^
^ -To^^vVì^ AA-c could (^\ot^ \M\+-Vì -hxs -P^-Vnex' : 
j?| ( "p ^r i U tcon 5ucpfe.v: V.
H fpsT xcÖ­Ow H!12Hf2_ m«V2HHHfGr, vncAhcs'
1 uf­+­rçTfG| wHf­fTI28A£­|s Ôf \LHDvr \
( VHLW2CHf W» HdHI€f ­8HVHfsk, f­L2\s>y mV&C+ \VC sT fns42 ^\d»0 lotice'
fb NsT eO W7dHsT H QIkpWan H pfbHVf ' 4
> a^’oo&V, Kvm *fo ^ -fus -^Vver won+- ^ Vv^me. . /
t^ö.'bo-n ervà'b \’\V£. (\buffar' o^ nia^-Vs tÂHÿfW iof^cnl

---------------------------------------------------

Javier Grillo-Marxuach—An excerpt from “Scum of the Earth”
VOw IwUu hIwdw digva Hou U PoPimUu .T2T gIo1M hIws Us UsoisawuNg povawT -sghUxw hIwuw Uuw h1o aIUvugT 
5isaUs SdUud gvhg os osw oH hIwdT0
’zz-•zW4G: /88m 982CrCi uCm psvV87s I8 XQC 08g2 cuVso< uCm bs2s r, Ibs ,Iu2 81 XQC 08g2 cuVso< /2ss2 P8gCm,I8CsY 
tG44G: lbuC5 y8go e8Co uCm I8muy ps i8 QC 08g2 cuVs prIb egCVuC w7u27o Ibs V2suI82 81 Ibs gnr:grI8g, 08g9u,Is2T egCVuC 
w7u27 B dsk 82 dr,r8Cu2y& lbr, enfant terrible 81 sCIs2.2r,so Ibr, IyV88C 81 Ibs rCIuCirnvso Ibr, 2sV5vs,, 28nns2 nu28C 81 Ibs 2sV8CmrIso 
Ibr, 7y,IrVuv 78Csy 7u5s2 B pb8 Q, egCVuC w7u27& Nu, bs i8Cs I88 1u2 Ibr, Ir7s& Q*7 /2ss2 P8gCm,I8Cso uCm Ibr,o vumrs, uCm 
isCIvs7sCo r, egCVuC w7u27T
5•zW’z: c2uC5vyo /2ss2o Q VuCWI ,ss pbuI Ibs 1g,, r, uvv un8gIT
tG44G: UgI y8g y8g2,sv1 um7rIIsm IbuI 08g9u,Is2 bu, un,8vgIsvy C8 g,sf 
5•zW’z: UgI pbuI y8g Vb88,s I8 irds rIo pbuI*, p28Ci prIb IbuI&
tG44G: A8IbrCio Q ,g..8,so ngI m8C*I y8g IbrC5 y8g buds Iu5sC rI I8 Ibs skI2s7s&
5•zW’z: DbuI u2s y8g 2s1s22rCi I8o /2ss2&
tG44G: 08g2 Csp vrCs 81 .28mgVI,Y
5•zW’z: DbuI un8gI Ibs7&
tG44G: A8Cs 81 Ibs7 buds uCy duvgsY
5•zW’z: Db8 u2s y8g I8 7u5s IbuI |gmis7sCI&
tG44G: Q*ds i8I sys,o Q VuC ,ss pbuI*, i8rCi 8CY LCy 7uC pb8 7uCg1uVIg2s, uCm 7u25sI, u ,8vu2 .8ps2sm 1vu,bvribI bu, I8 ns 
Iu5rCi rI I8 Ibs skI2s7sY
5•zW’z: DbuIW, p28Ci prIb ,8vu2 .8ps2sm 1vu,bvribI,&
tG44G: lbs ,u7s IbrCi IbuI*, p28Ci prIb vsivs,, Vbur2,f 
5•zW’z: c82 ,b82I .s8.vsT
tG44G: Ssumvs,, .sCVrv,&
5•zW’z: A8 8Cs g,s, .sCVrv, C8pumuy,o pby n8Ibs2 prIb Ibs vsum&
tG44G: LCm rCdr,rnvs .u.s2f
5•zW’z: Dby sv,s p8gvm Q n8Ibs2 I8 7uCg1uVIg2s rCdr,rnvs rC5&
tG44G: DbuI un8gI y8g2 U8II87vs,, Uui,&
5•zW’z: w87s .s8.vs m8C*I vr5s I8 ,I82s IbrCi,T
tG44G: lbuIW, 2rmrVgv8g,Y
5•zW’z: Dby&
tG44G: QI*, g,svs,,Y
5•zW’z: lbuI*, pbuI Ibsy ,urm un8gI 7y wI2uribIsCsm wu1sIy PrCT
tG44G: wI2uribIsCsm wu1sIy PrC&
5•zW’z: Q buds 8Cs 2ribI bs2sT
V5isaUs Pimmg oih hIw PuoniahT0
tG44G: UgI Ibr, r, |g,I u nrI 81 pr2sY
5•zW’z: A8o rI*, u ,I2uribIsCsm ,u1sIy .rCo r1 8Cvy y8gWm irds rC uCm nsvrsdso y8g p8gvmCWI ns budrCi Ibr, .28nvs7Y
tG44G: 08g sk.sVI 7s I8 ngy IbuI&
5•zW’z: 3 m8CWI 7r,2s.2s,sCI 7y .28mgVI,o y8g 5C8po 3 ,svv Ibs7 182 pbuI Ibsy u2sT
tG44G: UgI pbs2s m8 y8g i8 1287 bs2s&
5•zW’z: Ds*vv psWds |g,I sCIs2sm rCI8 uC ui2ss7sCI prIb Ibs lg..s2pu2s V87.uCyT
tG44G: DbuI 182&
5•zW’z: Ds*2s i8rCi I8 7uCg1uVIg2s ,8vrm lg..s2pu2sT
tG44G: DbuI 182&
5•zW’z: l8 ,svvT
tG44G: N8p&
5•zW’z: Lmds2Ir,rCiT
tG44G: DbuI y8g 78ms,Ivy 2s1s2 I8 u, Xumds2Ir,rCi< bu..sC, I8 ns 8Cs 81 Ibs nriis,I 7smru nvrIqs, rC br,I82yY
5•zW’z: DbuI un8gI rI&
tG44G: Q,C*I rI u vrIIvs nrI rC,gvIrCi&
5•zW’z: N8p m8 y8g 7suC&
tG44G: Dsvvo Ibs 7uiuqrCs um 182 y8g2 S8p auv82rs DuIs2o rI 2sum, XDby isI rI 8gI 81 Ibs Iu. pbsC y8g VuC .uy 182 rI&< lbs um 
182 auCCsm er2I 2sum, X0s,o Ibr, r, 2suv mr2IT< crCuvvyo Ibs um 182 y8g2 U285sC tgnns2 UuCm, u,5 Ibs :gs,Ir8C XDbuI u2s y8go wIg.rm&< 
5•zW’z: DbuIW, p28Ci prIb I2gIb rC umds2Ir,rCi&

---------------------------------------------------

My mugger
The ha rid he put over rriy rriouih 
rioric too gently was chapped arid gritty 
arid warm. With his other arm he pinned me 
firmly against his flanricl-shirted chest.
The first human to touch me so far
iri rriy two months iri New York City 
whispered in rriy ear, “Give me your money, 
or I’ll break your neck.” I couldn’t help 
leaning against him iri rriy relief, or pressing 
thankful lips to his pnlrri. lie yanked 
the hand away from rriy face, shoved me 
onto rriy knees iri the street. “Fucking
bitch!” I le ran off, back
into the facejess crowd
llzc Kolors

---------------------------------------------------

M
E
E
T
I
N
G
LI
PO
I
N
H
E
A
V
E
N
This is a most awkward 
situation. 1 would say I know 
you, but you’d figure I’m lying, patting 
the coif of black hair swirled 
on your head like the neck 
of a violin. From what I’ve read,
I thought you’d be blowing
cigar smoke in my face, looking
smug like Frank O’Hara
or vaporous like the Mata Hari,
floating around with your feet buried
in a bed of cloud. 1 expected
you’d still be dangling in everyone’s poem
like a Christmas ornament, talking
about how the crabgrass whistles
in the wind, or how the smell of cherry
bark is sweeter than the cherries
themselves. Then you’d get passed
on like an exotic hors d’ocurve,
and by the time people are through
with you, they had already gone
about their lives searching in streams
and rivers for some sign of ancient
China, where the air is so clean
and mysterious that raw meat
blooms into lotus figs and chrysanthamums.
But no, I can only see you sitting
on a warped wooden bench, singing
lullabies to yourself and drinking
rice wine straight from the jug, perfectly
content with death clinging
onto the goatee that hangs off your chin
like a waterfall - at least, I think
it’s a waterfall. And when you run out of songs
or wine or a clear picture
of the world, you just laugh
in the perfumed air you belch.
by 
Ron 
Lee

---------------------------------------------------

Shi nwsito nipuito dpweesig Shpvreh ohi mpaEE
ao at LtgiCito nuiig
CY
Tjitr eiamogrH

---------------------------------------------------

An excerpt from
"The Headhunters Club"
by Matt MacKenzie
Two days later, feeling a little regression comii 
Jason slumped into the overstuffed chair in the comer of his, 
living room. He picked The Hardy Boys in the Case oftheQ^ 
the endtable and switched on the lamp. He had just found 
again when the small figure of Rocky Koh appeared in thj 
with a disc gun and sprayed the area, scoring hits on evei 
target and ricocheting red and green plastic discs across 
Jason yelled, “Sneak attack! Hit the deck!” and hurled th 
the hall as a diversion while he snatched his own gun fr< 
and hit the floor to open fire from a prone position. Rod 
hits in the head and two in the chest and he was woundi 
managed to squeeze off a few more rounds over his shoi 
retreated into the kitchen, limping heavily on the left sidj 
shots went high, hitting the TV squarely with ametallic /j 
Stillness. Jason waited a moment, then pulled 
crouch. He thought he had won the day until he rememj 
bag of Oreos open on the kitchen table. He rose, steali 
As he crept down the dim hall, Jason realized 
getting more daring. He had even entered the house unffl 
sake of tactical surprise. With luck he was taking more cl 
elsewhere in his life, too. Rocky had been born soon aftei 
arrived from Korea, and the first lime Jason came to bab; 
in the attic. Thai was six years ago. Rocky — actually Mil 
Jason had nicknamed him after the cartoon squirrel, and the n] 
stuck — was twelve now, and.while he still wasn’t exactlyoul 
spoke better English than Mrs. Koh, and had found friends to 
in, Jason among them. He still had lousy aim ihough.
Jason swung himself around the doorframe 
his gun at Rocky, who had set his gun on the table and had 
occupied prying open an Oreo. Rocky carefully pressed the a 
together and placed it back in the bag. Then he raised his ham 
little and made a grab for his gun. They fired at the same timi 
of them were out of ammo.
“Well, so much for that,” said Jason. He looked 
a moment, and tossed it onto the table. “You can finish the co] 
you want.”
They each pulled up a chair. “You’ll have to clean u] 
living room, but that can wait.”
“I know. I’ll remember.” Rocky busied himself agaii
cookie.
“I’ve been meaning to ask you about something,” sai* 
“When you’re done I mean.”
Rocky shrugged for him to go ahead, since he knew hi 
supposed to speak with his mouth full.
“Have you taken your bike out to HQ? I saw some trac!
looked like a small dirt bike.”
Rocky gulped down the rest of the cookie. “I went out 
there a couple times, yeah. You weren’t home and I didn’t want to 
;alk.”
“Good. That’s a lot better than if it was someone I didn’t 
w. It’s not that other people are bad, but I don’t want word 
[mg out too far.”
Rocky looked down, and collected his hands in his lap.
Let me guess,” said Jason, trying not to make an accusation. “You 
brought someone with you.”
“Yeah. I thought Susana might like it. Since you brought a 
:re I figured it was okay — “ He stopped short and almost 
lr from agitation. 
chael, I didn’t tell you about that.” He was surprised 
sounded.
“I was — I.” He stopped, almost left again, 
collected himself, almost in tears. “I was riding 
woods when you came in. I didn’t want to interrupt
[lire wasn’t really much to interrupt. She was just 
n’t talked to in a long time.” Talking to Rocky was 
imes, just because the kid looked up to him so much, 
ire to give sound advice, and not vacillate. “Next 
yourself into the open and say ‘hi,’ that’s all.” 
re sure she was just a friend? You guys didn’t do 
j?”
she used to be more than that, but that was three 
i. That was Veronica. You met her once, I think.” 
Pou guys used to go out, right?”
[rearranged himself more casually in his chair. He 
y too much about this, but if Rocky would be 
¡as all right. He suspected this was the one area 
d doubts about him, because he had stayed away 
¡b long after he and Veronica broke up. 
she the one who really screwed you over?” 
ou could say that, I guess. I think we’re getting along 
•w, though. I mean, it’s always kind of a mystery with 
¡ink we can be friends again.” 
ou guys did stay there a long time. I had to leave my 
pme without you seeing me.” 
it would be more than an hour and a half s walk.
!k, you didn’t have to put yourself through that. Is your 
t there? We can pick it up today.”
'Okay. Thanks. So it’s all right.” Rocky picked up his disc 
;an his thumb along the textured plastic, thumbing the 
ipring. He looked a little dazed, but he was recovering as he 
:d the reassurance.
I’ve got a few things to take care of first, so you can 
up the mess in the living room.” Rocky smiled, and Jason 
upstairs to look for his keys, which he had lost the day before, 
¡in he came down fifteen minutes later, the yellow discs were 
:ked in one pile on the kitchen table, and the red and green ones 
nother. All except the one he took in the stomach when he 
ned the coat closet He doubled over screaming, face twisted in 
tllapsed for a minute in the hall before they went out to 
bike.

---------------------------------------------------

’ihIou CinnL zounUs Usn Evg 3spvgvlmw Fuvwsng
Uy S822urCs 9rvvs2
A visitwith this University of Pittsburgh professor and his colorful, colloqual writing style proves thatthere's 
rrfbre behind characters than inventiveness and words on the page. There's a reality to imaginative creation 
that's allowed Buddy to surround himself with friends—invisible ones, but friends just the same.
You p8CWI 1rCm Sugar 9sV5vrC*, Cu7s rC 
Ibs PrII,ng2ib .b8Cs n885 82 8C Ibs gCrds2,rIy 
28,Is2,o ngI Ibr, n8y 1287 9r,,r,,r..r .vuy, 
uCm m2su7,o suI, uCm ,vss., uv78,I u, ,g2svy 
u, y8g uCm Q m8T Lv78,IT A8n8myW, :grIs ,g2s 
pbuI wgiu2 v885, vr5so 82 sdsC b8p 8vm bs r,T 
ngI ,.sCmrCi u muy prIb br7 uI Ibs V8gCIy1ur2 
82 1r,brCi 182 VbrV5sC, rC br, mg,Iy nuV5yu2m r, 
,87sIbrCi IbuI ps uvv VuC m8T Q 2sVsCIvy 7sI 
wgiu2 7y,sv1 pbsC Q 8.sCsm u ,b82I ,I82y ny 
ugIb82 Sspr, ^Ugmmy\ A82muCT wgiu2 9sV5vrC 
r, |g,I 8Cso ngI Vs2IurCvy Ibs 78,I .s2,8Cunvso 
81 Ibs Vbu2uVIs2, IbuI buds .u2umsm 8gI 81 
UgmmyW, r7uirCuIr8C uCm 8CI8 Ibs .uis rC Ibr, 
JCrds2,rIy 81 PrII,ng2ib .281s,,82W, p8Cms2z
1gvvy V8vv8:gruv p2rIrCi un8gI ,7uvvfI8pC 
9r,,r,,r..rT
Su,I ,s7s,Is2T Ugmmy I885 Ir7s 8gI 81 
br, pbr2vfprCm ,Vbsmgvs I8 dr,rI Ibs 1rVIr8C 
p825,b8. IbuI Q pu, Iu5rCi uI a9JT Q 2sVuvv 
nsrCi Vbu27sm ny br, 7svv8p ,8gIbs2Co nuV5f 
p88m,y 7uCCs2 81 ,.ssVb u, bs ,.gC u Iuvs 
uCm |85sm un8gI Ibs 8n,IuVvs, 81 nsrCi u 
p2rIs2T abu2uVIs2o Vbu2uVIs2o Vbu2uVIs2BIbr, r, 
Ibs V2gk 81 u ,gVVs,,1gvo rCI2rigrCi ,b82I ,I82yo 
Ugmmy s7.bu,rqsmT lbuIW, 2suvvy C8IbrCi ps 
V2suIrds p2rIs2, budsCWI bsu2m ns182so ngI 
2sumrCi A82muC ,I82rs, 182 7y,sv1 bu, .28dsm 
I8 ns 8Cs 81 7y ns,I vs,,8C, rC sk.s2I 
Vbu2uVIs2rquIr8CT
•Q v8ds wgiu2o• Ugmmy I8vm 7so br, d8rVs 
,81IsCrCi sdsC 782s mg2rCi Ibs rCIs2drsp bs 
sCIbg,ru,IrVuvvy i2uCIsm 7s 2sVsCIvyT •Q 5C8p 
wgiu2W, d8rVs ,8 psvv Q bsu2 br7 Iuv5 rC 7y 
7rCmT Q ,ss b8p bs p8gvm Isvv u ,I82yo uCm ,8 Q 
|g,I uvv8p br7 I8 Isvv Ibs ,I82yT Q u,5 br7 b8p 
u2s y8g i8rCi I8 Isvv Ibr,&•
S8ds br7& L,5 br7& DurI u 7rCgIso Q 
puCI I8 rCIs22g.Io u2sCWI y8g 2suvvy |g,I Iuv5rCi 
I8 y8g2,sv1& UgI IbsC Q vr,IsC I8 Ugmmy u, bs 
,.su5, 81 wgiu2o ,.su5, 81 br7 18Cmvy u, u 
12rsCmo uCm Q 5C8p IbuI wgiu2 r, 782s IbuC u 
1ri7sCI 81 Ibs p2rIs2W, r7uirCuIr8CT lbs 
1ssvrCi Q isI r, ss2rso 182 pbsC u bg7uC nsrCi 
mentally V8CVsrds, uCm irds, nr2Ib I8 uC uVIguv 
nsrCio uC rCmrdrmguv 8gI,rms br7,sv1o IbrCi, 
IsCm I8 isI u nrI ,g22suvT Ugmmy 2s7urC, 
C8CVbuvuCIo b8psds2o ,r..rCi Ibs 1r2,I 81 br, 
18g2 82 1rds Vg., 81 Q2r,b U2su51u,I IsuT l8 br7o 
V2suIrCi u 2suvrIy 8gI 81 u 1rVIr8C r, u puy 81 
vr1sT LCm Q u7 msIs27rCsm I8 uV:gurCI 7y,sv1 
prIb UgmmyW, Vr2Vvs 81 rCdr,rnvs 12rsCm,T
£g,I vr5s 12rsCm, VuCC8I 5C8p every­
thing un8gI 8Cs uC8Ibs2o Ugmmy m8s,CWI Vvur7 
I8 gCms2,IuCm br, Vbu2uVIs2, V87.vsIsvyo 82 I8 
ns unvs I8 .2smrVI Ibsr2 uVIr8C,T QC 1uVIo bs 
um7rI, IbuI ,87sIr7s, wgiu2 ,g2.2r,s, br7T
•!1IsC sC8gibo Ibé d8rVs IbuI Isvv, [Ibs 
,I82y] r, Ibs i28pC g. wgiu2 pb8 m8s,CWI 
u..su2 rC Ibs ,I82y ,8 7gVbo ngI Ibs i28pC g. 
wgiu2 2s1vsVIrCi 8C pbuI rIW, vr5s mg2rCi 
[Vbrvmb88m] Ir7s,T lb8,s Ip8 d8rVs, isI 
7rksm g. rC 7y bsum' Ibs i28pC g. wgiu2 
IsvvrCi Ibs ,I82y uCm Ibs IsC 82 svsdsC ysu2 8vm
wgiu2T lbs2sW, u nuvuCVs nsIpssC Ibs 
2s1vsVIrdso i28pC g. d8rVs uCm Ibs Vbrvmb88m 
d8rVs IbuI V87s, Ib28gib rC Ibs ,I82rs,T•
LvIb8gib Ugmmy ,.su5, 81 wgiu2o uCm 
,sds2uv 8Ibs2 81 br, Vbu2uVIs2,o u, rCmrdrmguv, 
,s.u2uIs 1287 br7,sv1o bs m8s, ,bu2s u 5rC,br. 
prIb Ibs7 IbuI sdrCVs, rC Ibs ugI8nr8i2u.brVuv 
,rms, I8 br, Vbu2uVIs2,T E 2sum u i2suI Cg7ns2 
81 UgmmyW, ,I82rs, rC u ,b82I .s2r8m 81 Ir7s rC 
.2s.u2uIr8C 182 Ibs rCIs2drspo uCm Q V8gvmCWI 
bsv. ngI C8IrVs Ibs gCms2vyrCi Ibs7s 81 
2svuIr8C,br.,o ,.sVr1rVuvvy 1uIbs2f,8C 2svuIr8Cz
,br., IbuI V8v82sm Ibs p825T Pg2,grCi Ibr, 
1ssvrCio uCm p825rCi 811 81 nr8i2u.brVuv 
rC1827uIr8C IbuI 12rsCm, 81 UgmmyW, 811s2sm 
7so Q IuVI1gvvy u..28uVbsm Ibs ,gn|sVI 81 
UgmmyW, Vbrvmb88m uCm 1u7rvy sk.s2rsCVso uvv 
Ibs pbrvs 1ssvrCi IbuI Q 7ribI ns .28nrCio 
8ds2,Is..rCi 7y n8gCm, u, uC rCIs2drsps2T Q 
CssmCWI buds p822rsmT lbs 12uC5o msIurvsm 
2s,.8C,s IbuI Ibs ,rvds2fnsu2msm .281s,,82 
iuds un8gI u msvrVuIs 1uVsI 81 br, Vbrvmb88m 
,bsm u I8gVbrCio .s2,8Cuv vribI 8CI8 Ibs 
2su,8C, 182 br, Vbu2uVIs2,W skr,IsCVsT
•L, u .s2,8C rCIs2s,Ism rC bg7uC 
.,yVb8v8iyo Q 5C8p IbuI uvv 81 7y Vbu2uVIs2, 
V87s 8gI 81 7s uCm u2s ,87sb8p 2s1vsVIrds 
81 ,87s .u2I 81 7sT 98,I 81 7y ,I82rs, m8 
,ss7 I8 ns un8gI Ibs ,su2Vb 182 u v8,I 1uIbs2T
Q uvpuy, Ib8gibI Q pu, ,su2VbrCi 182 IbuI .u2I 
81 7y ,Is.1uIbs2W, v8ds IbuI pu, msCrsm 7s ny 
br, uvV8b8vr,7 uCm ny 8Ibs2 vr7rIuIr8C, 81 br, 
vr1sT UgI Q IbrC5 rC u puy IbuI r, C8I Ibs pb8vs 
I2gIbo IbuI QW7 v885rCi 182 Ibs v8,I CuIg2uv 
1uIbs2o Ibs 8Cs IbuI Q Csds2 5Cspo pb8,s 
vsudrCi VbuCism 7y pb8vs vr1sT•
Ugmmy ,prdsv, u28gCm rC br, V2su5y Vbur2 
uCm bgCI, u78Ci Ibs n885, 8C Ibs n8II87 
,bsv1 81 8Cs 81 Ibs Ip8 VsrvrCifI8f1v882 n885 
,bsvds, IbuI V28pm u28gCm br, ms,5T Ns 
,svsVI, u 1uI .b8I8 uvng7 uCm nsirC, I8 1vr. 
Ib28gib Ibs .uis, 81 nvuV5 uCm pbrIs .b8I8,T
•NsW, 7y CuIg2uv 1uIbs2o Ibs 8Cvy .rVIg2s 
Q buds 81 br7o• bs .8rCI, 8gI u vu2is .b8I8 81 u 
,Is2C v885rCi 7uC rC ivu,,s, uCm u ms2ny buIT 
•LCm IbuIW, 7so• Ugmmy rCmrVuIsm Ibs IrCy 
Vbrvm IbuI r, V2umvsm rC Ibs 7uCW, u27,T 
LvIb8gib UgmmyW, 1uIbs2 mrsm pbsC Ugmmy 
pu, uC rC1uCIo Ibs p2rIs2 mrm C8I unuCm8C Ibs 
8..82IgCrIy I8 g,s br, r7uirCuIr8C uCm IbuI 8vm

---------------------------------------------------

.b8I8i2u.b I8 7u5s br, 2suv 1uIbs2 u .u2I 81 br, 
,I82rs,o u .u2I IbuI m8s, C8I ms.sCm pb8vvy 8C 
Ibs •,su2Vb• IbuI bs 7sCIr8Csm su2vrs2T
•QWds p2rIIsC u ,s2rs, 81 ,I82rs, un8gI 
8pv,o• bs VbgV5vs,o vsuCrCi Vv8,s2 I8 7s ,8 
IbuI Q VuC ,Igmy Ibs .b8I8 prIb br7T •lbr, 
8pvr,b vrIIvs nsu5fvr5s C8,so uCm 8pvr,b sysz
ivu,,s,o• bs .8rCI, I8 br, 1uIbs2W, ,s2r8g, 
1uVso •7u5s, 7s p8Cms2 r1 QW7 C8I v885rCi 182 
br7 rC Ib8,s [8pv] r7uis, u, psvvT•
UgmmyW, u..28uVb I8 uV:gurCIrCi br7,sv1 
prIb u 1uIbs2 bs Csds2 5Csp 1u,VrCuIs, 7sT 
QC,Isum 81 p2rIrCi VvrVbs msumf1uIbs2 ,I82rs,o 
bs .2s,s2ds, Ibs 7uC rC Ibs .rVIg2s ny 
V2suIrCi uC r7uis 1287 Ibs 8Cvy .by,rVuv 
sdrmsCVs bs bu, 81 br, 1uIbs2W, skr,IsCVsT
DbuI 7ribI ,ss7 V8778C uI 1r2,I ivuCVs 
,gmmsCvy Iu5s, 1vribIo nsV87s, u p8Cms21gvo 
rCIs2s,IrCi 2suvrIy I8 Ugmmy uCm br, 2sums2,T
L, u V2suIrds p2rIrCi ,IgmsCIo Q gCms2,IuCm IbuI 
sk.s2rsCVs V8C,IrIgIs, uC r7.82IuCI .u2I 81 
1rVIr8C p2rIrCiT QWds uvpuy, 2si2sIIsm C8I 
budrCi bum gCr:gso 78Cg7sCIuv sk.s2rsCVs, 
1287 pbrVb I8 V2suIs un,I2uVI r7uis, uCm 
V87.vsIsvy 811fnsuI Vbu2uVIs2,T L, Q ,rI uCm 
V8Cds2,s prIb Ugmmy un8gI br, vr1s rC 9r,,r,z
,r..ro Q VuC ,ss b8p 7gVb IbuI 7y ,7uvv I8pC 
Vbrvmb88m bu, rC V8778C prIb br,T DbuI r, rI 
IbuI uvv8p, Ugmmy I8 g,s br, sds2ymuy sk.s2rz
sCVs, uCm 8n,s2duIr8C, I8 psuds Ibs,s 
rCI2rigrCi Iuvs, pbsC Q V8C,IuCIvy 1rCm 7y,sv1 
2svyrCi 8C prvm ,I2sIVbs, 81 r7uirCuIr8C uCm 
Ibs V8C|g2rCi g. 81 2rmrVgv8g, 82 sk8IrV Vbu2uVz
Is2, uCm .vuVs, I8 g,s rC ,I82rs,&
QC u puyo Ibs Vbu2uVIs2, uCm d8rVs, IbuI 
7u5s UgmmyW, ,b82I ,I82rs, ,8 uvrds ,ss7 I8 
buds n285sC v88,s 1287 Ibs p2rIs2W, 7rCm 8CVs 
Ibsy u2s irdsC vr1s Ibs2sT Q IbrC5 Ibr, r, Ibs 
2su,8C IbuI Ugmmy VuC ,8 CuIg2uvvy 2s1s2 I8 
Ibs,s Vbu2uVIs2, u, rCmrdrmguv, rC Ibs7z
,svds,Bu, .s2,8CuvrIrs, prIb8gI uVIguv n8mrs,o 
y8g 7ribI ,uyT Q u7 2s7rCmsm 81 Ibs r7uirz
Cu2y 12rsCm, IbuI ,8 7uCy y8gCi Vbrvm2sC rC,r,I 
skr,IT lbs mr11s2sCVs nsIpssC UgmmyW, 
Vbu2uVIs2, uCm r7uirCu2y 12rsCm,o b8psds2o r, 
IbuI wgiu2 82 DrC,I8C 82 Nu22r,8Co 82 uCy 81 
br, Vbu2uVIs2,o u2s C8I skVvg,rds I8 UgmmyW, 
vr1sT lbs p2rIs2 bu, ,sI Ibs7 12ss rC br, 
,I82rs,o sCunvrCi uCy 2sums2 I8 rCIs2uVI prIb 
uCm C8I |g,I 8n,s2ds Ibs vrdsvy uCIrV, uCm 2suv 
s78Ir8C, 81 Ibs Vbu2uVIs2,T Ugmmy Vvur7, IbuI 
Ibr, •,sIIrCi 12ss• r, V2gVruv I8Wbr, u2IT
•SsIIrCi i8 81 V8CI28v r, Ibs puy I8 7u5s 
u ,I82y 1rCm rI, 8pC mr2sVIr8CT Mu,y I8 ,uyo 
bu2m I8 m8Y SsIIrCi i8 81 V8CI28v r, Ibs 8Cvy 
puy Q 5C8p I8 7u5s rI p825T w87spbs2s y8g 
buds I8 ,I8. V8CI28vvrCi Ibs Vbu2uVIs2, 82 
IbsyW2s i8rCi I8 nsV87s p88msC uCm 7u2Vb 
vr5s vrIIvs ,8vmrs2, uCm m8 skuVIvy pbuI y8g Isvv 
Ibs7 I8 m8o ngI rI p8CWI ns rCIs2s,IrCiT•
LI Ibr, .8rCI rC Ibs rCIs2drspo Q ,gmmsCvy 
nsirC I8 1ssv u, Ib8gib Q 5C8p C8IbrCi un8gI 
1rVIr8C p2rIrCiY Q 7suCo r,CWI rI Ibs .8rCI 81 
1rVIr8C 182 u bg7uC ugIb82 I8 V2suIs Vbu2uVIs2, 
uCm .gI Ibs7 rCI8 ,I2gVIg2sm ,rIguIr8C, prIb 
Ibs rCIsCI 81 msdsv8.rCi u Vs2IurC I8Cs IbuI 
sdsCIguvvy vsCm, I8 Ibs s,Iunvr,b7sCI 81 u 
ms,r2sm s78Ir8Cuv 2suVIr8C 8C Ibs .u2I 81 Ibs 
2sums2& Q1 Ibs p2rIs2 m8s, C8I V8CI28v Ibs 
Vbu2uVIs2o IbsC pb8T T T Q ,I2giivs 182 u puy I8 
u2IrVgvuIs 7y V8C1g,r8C rCI8 V8bs2sCI :gs,z
Ir8C,T c82IgCuIsvyo Ugmmy 2s,Vgs, 7s 1287 
7y 1g7nvrCi prIb uC uCsVm8Is IbuI un,8vgIsvy 
7u5s, 7s IbuC5 7y vgV5y ,Iu2, IbuI Q Vb8,s I8 
rCIs2drsp Ibr, rCmrdrmguvT lbr, vrIIvs ,I82y bs 
I8vm 7s vrIs2uvvy 8.sCsm u m882 rC 7y 7rCmo uCm 
uI IbuI 787sCI Q nsiuC u ,s.u2uIs ,bssI 81 
C8Is, 182 7y 8pC .s2,8Cuv g,s u, u V2suIrds 
p2rIs2T Ugmmy nsiuC Ibs ,I82y u, bs .2s.u2sm 
uC8Ibs2 Vg. 81 IsuT
•9y 1ud82rIs uCsVm8Is un8gI [vsIIrCi i8 
81 V8CI28v] 8VVg22sm su2vy rC 7y p2rIrCi vr1sT Q 
pu, p2rIrCi u ,I82y Vuvvsm Rat Song uCm Q 5Csp 
Ibs 7uIs2ruv IbuI Ibs ,I82y pu, i8rCi I8 8.sC 
prIb nsVug,s rI bum bu..sCsm I8 u 12rsCmT Nr, 
Vbrvm bum n28gibI b87s u V8g.vs 81 2uI, 1287 
,Vb88vT lbsy 5rCm 81 ,Vu2sm uCm 2s.gv,sm
sds2yn8myo |g,I vyrCi Ibs2s suIrCi vsIIgVs uCm 
v885rCi uI Ibs,s .sI 1r,bT lbsC 8Cs 81 Ibs 1r,b 
mrsmo uCm Ibsy 5rCm 81 V8CCsVIsm Ibs 2uI,W 
nsrCi Ibs2s prIb Ibs msuIb 81 Ibs 1r,bT Q 5Csp 
IbuI IbuI pu, i8rCi I8 ns b8p Ibs ,I82y 
,Iu2IsmT w8 Q ,Iu2Ism Ibs ,I82yo uCm QW7 p2rIrCi 
IbuI ,I82yo uCm Ibs .b8Cs 2uCiT Q 7suCo C8I 
Ibs .b8Cs rC 7y b8g,so the phone in the 
story!" Ugmmy ,bu5s, br, bsum uCm vugib,o Q 
IbrC5 782s uI Ibs u,I8Cr,bsm puy IbuI Q 
,Cu..sm 7y bsum g. 1287 C8IsfIu5rCi IbuC 
1287 Ibs un,g2mrIy 81 br, ,I82yT •Q Ib8gibI 
WDb8 r, Ibr,&Wo• bs V8CIrCgs,T •lbs 8Cvy puy Q 
5Csp pu, 182 br7 ^Ibs Vbu2uVIs2] I8 uC,ps2 
Ibs .b8CsT LCm ,8 bs uC,ps2sm Ibs .b8Cs 
uCm Ibr, p87uC pu, 8C Ibs vrCsT wbs nsirC, 
Ibr, v8Ci ,.ssVb IbuI |g,I Iu5s, 8ds2 Ibs ,I82y 
uCm ,bsW, Ibs 78,I rCIs2s,IrCi Vbu2uVIs2 rC Ibs 
,I82y I8 7s ,gmmsCvyT A8p ,bs isI, 8C Ibs 
Isvs.b8Cs 8Cs 8Ibs2 Ir7s ns182s Ibs ,I82yW, 
8ds2o ngI ,bs Csds2 V87s, 8CI8 Ibs ,IuisT• 
Ugmmy .ug,s, I8 ,bu5s br7,sv1 8gI 81 u ,82I 81 
7s782yfrCmgVsm I2uCVso uCm IbsC i8s, 8C I8 
1g2Ibs2 sk.vurC Ibs 8mm sk.s2rsCVsT •Q Csds2 
5Csp IbuI p87uC skr,Ism ns182s Ibs Isvsz
.b8Cs 2uCi uCm bs uC,ps2sm rIT Asds2T• Ns 
,uy, Ibr, ,v8pvyo .gCVIguIrCi br, p82m, ny 
|unnrCi br, .uv7 prIb u 1rCis2 81 br, 8Ibs2 
buCmT •LCm IbuI pu, 7y 1r2,I sk.s2rsCVs prIb 
vsIIrCi u ,I82y p2rIs rI,sv1T JCIrv rI 2uCio• bs 
vugib,o •Q mrmCWI sdsC 5C8p Ibsy bum u 
Isvs.b8CsT *!b 7y /8moW Q ,urmo $Db8 r, Ibr,&•W
Ugmmy r, u7g,sm prIb br, sk.s2rsCVso Q 
u7 mg7n18gCmsmT Q purIo puCIrCi br7 I8 Isvv 
7s 782so ngI Q u7 I88 ng,y prIb 7y 8pC 
Ib8gibI, I8 u,5 br7 I8 svun82uIsT lbs 2suvrquz
Ir8C IbuI uC ugIb82 VuC 2suvvy ns ,8 m2upC rC ny 
br, 8pC p2rIrCi IbuI u ,I82y nsirC, I8 .8,,s,, 
br7o I8 g,s him u, u 78gIb.rsVs 182 pbuI it 
puCI, I8 ,uy ,b885 Ibs ,I2gVIg2smo .2uVIrVuv 
dr,r8C 81 p2rIrCi IbuI Q ,g..8,s Q*ds gCV8Cz
,Vr8g,vy .rV5sm g. 1287 Ibs bribvy uVums7rV 
sCdr28C7sCI uI au2Csirs 9svv8CT QI pu, 
.28nunvy ns,I IbuI Ugmmy Vb8,s Ibr, Ir7s I8 
Iu5s u n2su5 uCm ,Is. 8gI 81 br, 811rVs 182 u 
787sCIT DrIb8gI ,87s Ir7s uv8Cs I8 V8vvsVI 
7y Ib8gibI,o Q m8CWI 5C8p r1 QWm buds nssC 
unvs I8 isI Ibs rCIs2drsp nuV5 8C I2uV5 uCm 
,br1I I8 8Ibs2 I8.rV, IbuI Q bum .vuCCsm 8C 
V8ds2rCiT

---------------------------------------------------

Lv8Cs 182 Ibs Ir7s nsrCiT Q bum uC 
8..82IgCrIy I8 rC,.sVI UgmmyW, 811rVsT QI r, 
.vsu,uCIvy VvgIIs2sm prIb n885, uCm ,IgmsCI,W 
.u.s2, purIrCi I8 ns 2sumo .s2bu., i2umsmT L 
2g7.vsm i2ssC uCm n28pC uCm ysvv8p 2gi 
V8ds2, Ibs 1v882 gCms2 Ibs p82C ,prdsv Vbur2 uI 
UgmmyW, nri p88msC ms,5T LC 8vmf1u,br8Csm 
Iy.sp2rIs2o pbrVb Ugmmy 2s1s2, I8 u, br, 
•Iy.sp2rIs2 ,Vgv.Ig2s• ,rCVs bs g,s, 8Cvy u 
V87.gIs2 I8 p2rIso ,vg7., 8C u ,7uvv Iunvs 
CskI I8 Ibs ms,5T l2gIb1gvvyo Q p8gvmCWI buds 
nssC ,g2.2r,sm r1 Ugmmy bum I8vm 7s bs mrm 
g,s Ibs Iy.sp2rIs2T c287 Ibs mru78Cm ,Igm rC 
br, su2v8ns I8 br, n2ribI nvgs ,8V5, uCm nvuV5 
bribfI8.,T Ugmmy r, E’’% uC •up ,bgV5,o Q 
i8I I8 m8 rI 7y puy• .s2,8C uCm p2rIs2T lbs 
7uC skgms, rCmrdrmguvrIyo myCu7r,7o uCm u 
v8ds 182 p2rIrCi uCm IsuVbrCiBu .s2,8CuvrIy 
psvv sks7.vr1rsm ny br, sk.s2rsCVs,o m2su7,o 
uCm uIIrIgms, IbuI Q i8I uV:gurCIsm prIb 
Ib28gib br, ,I82rs, uCm Ibs rCIs2drspT eg2rCi 
Ibs rCIs2drspo Q vsu2Csm IbuI Ugmmy b8vm, u 
PbTeT rC wbu5s,.su2suC vrIs2uIg2sT lbuI pu, 
,g2.2r,rCi sC8gibo ,rCVs bs r, u, 1u2 1287 Ibs 
,Is2s8Iy.rVuvo 7gmmvsf7rCmsm ,Vb8vu24.281s,z
,82 u, y8g VuC isIT lbuIo V87nrCsm prIb 
vsu2CrCi IbuI bsW, uC Mvdr, 12su5o V8CdrCVsm 7s 
IbuI I2yrCi I8 gCV8ds2o vsI uv8Cs 1uIb87o Ibs 
mr7sC,r8C, 81 br, .s2,8CuvrIy rC u ysu2o vsI 
uv8Cs uC b8g2 rCIs2drspo p8gvm ns u 1gIrvs 
sCmsud82T
es,.rIs 7y brib um7r2uIr8C uCm 2s,.sVI 
182 UgmmyW, ,5rvv 81 Vbu2uVIs2rquIr8Co Q u7 
sCdr8g,o ,8 sCdr8g, 81 Ibr, ,5rvv IbuI Q puCI I8 
mr,V8ds2 br, ,sV2sI uCm s7.v8y rI 7y,sv1T
DbuIo Q p8Cms2smo r, Ibs 5sy I8 Ugmmy*, 
iv82r8g, unrvrIrs,& Ns 7g,I buds u ,sV2sI 
7sIb8mo u 1827gvu IbuIo r1 Q V8gvm 8Cvy p2uCivs 
rI 1287 br7o Q I88 V8gvm g,s I8 ,sI 7y,sv1 uv8Ci 
Ibs .uIb IbuI bs I2udsv,T Q ms,.s2uIsvy puCIsm 
I8 ns sCvribIsCsmo ngI uI Ibs ,u7s Ir7s Q 
1su2sm Ugmmy p8gvm ns gCprvvrCi I8 .u2I prIb 
Ibs ,sV2sI, 81 V2suIrCi •2suv• .s8.vs 8gI 81 
Ibs ,bum8p, IbuI vg25 rC br, 7rCmT w8 pbsC 
Ugmmy 2sIg2Csm I8 br, 811rVso Q ,Issvsm 7y,sv1 
182 u ,I2giivs rC skI2uVIrCi br, ,sV2sI, 1287 
br7T Q ,b8gvm buds ,.u2sm 7y,sv1 Ibs uCkrsIyT 
QC 2s,.8C,s I8 7y .2yrCio msIurvsm :gs,Ir8C, 
un8gI Ibs nsirCCrCi,o Ibs 7rmmvs,o Ibs sCm, 81 
br, ,I82rs,T Ugmmy m8s,CWI Vvu7 g.o m8s,CWI 
uIIs7.I I8 pbssmvs br, puy u28gCm mr2sVI 
uC,ps2,T QC 1uVIo bs bu, un,8vgIsvy C8IbrCi I8 
brmsT
•Q buds u 2suvvy 8vmf1u,br8Csm dr,r8C 81 
pbuI ,I82rs, u2s ,g..8,sm I8 m8o• bs nsirC, 
,v8pvyo u, r1 u2IrVgvuIrCi ,87sIbrCi IbuI bs 
5C8p, 7g,I vrs nsbrCm br, p2rIrCio ngI r, C8I 
CsVs,,u2rvy V8C,Vr8g,vy upu2s 81T •QC 7y 
bsumo Ibsy u2s un8gI ,87sn8my pb8 puCI, 
,87sIbrCi bs 82 ,bs m8s,CWI budso uCm IbuI 
.28nvs7 nsV87s, .28nvs7uIrqsmo 82 Ibs 
.28nvs7 i28p, i2suIs2 uCm i2suIs2 gCIrv rI 
2suVbs, ,87s ,82I 81 V2r,r,T L1Is2 IbuI V2r,r,o 
C8IbrCi r, Ibs ,u7s uiurCT A8p IbuI 8vmf 
1u,br8Csm dr,r8C Q buds I8 umm I8T Q1 Ibs 18Vg, 
r, 8C 8Cs ,rIguIr8C 82 ,sI 81 rC1827uIr8C ,gVb 
u, s7nuv7rCi 82 1r,brCi 182 VbrV5sC, 82 
uCyIbrCi sv,so IbsC nsCsuIb Ibs ,g21uVs 
Ibs2sW, uC8Ibs2 .rsVs 81 rC1827uIr8C vr5s u num 
2svuIr8C,br. 82 u 1su2 81 1urvg2s 82 pbuI sds2 rI 
r,B ,87s s78Ir8Cuv un,I2uVIr8C IbuI bu, I8 
msdsv8. uI Ibs ,u7s 2uIs 81 .28nvs7uIrquIr8C 
u, Ibs ,g.s21rVruv uVIr8C 81 Ibs ,I82yT• Ugmmy 
.ug,s, I8 m2rC5 ,87s 782s Isu 1287 Ibs 7gi 
,bu.sm vr5s Ibs n8II87 buv1 81 u .s2,8CW, 
n8myB1ssIuCmuvvT LbY Ns2s rI V87s,o Q 
IbrC5o Ibs 787sCI 81 2sdsvuIr8C IbuI 7y 
V2suIrds p2rIrCi Vu2ss2 bu, nssC purIrCi 182Y 
UgI u, Ugmmy i8s, 8C I8 rvvg,I2uIs br, Ibs82y 81 
,b82I ,I82rs, Ib28gib u V87.u2r,8C I8 8Cs 81 
br, 8pC .rsVs,o 7y i2uCm .vuC I8 ,CuIVb br, 
,sV2sI, 81 Vbu2uVIs2rquIr8C 1ums, rCI8 mr,rvvgz
,r8C7sCIT QWvv um7rIo Q pu, u nrI mr,u..8rCIsmT
Q 2suvrqs C8p IbuI Q 5Csp uvv uv8Ci IbuI u ,sI
1827gvuo 7s782rqsm ny uvv i2suI p2rIs2,o 
,r7.vy m8s, C8I skr,IT Sr,IsCrCi u, Ugmmy 
,.su5, 81 br, vr1s uCm br, Vbu2uVIs2, uCm br, 
p2rIrCi rC isCs2uvo Q ,ss IbuI 5C8prCi y8g2 
Vbu2uVIs2, uCm ,sIIrCi Ibs7 12ss bu, 782s I8 
m8 prIb 5C8prCi yourself uCm nsrCi unvs I8 vsI 
y8g2,sv1 i8T
c82 Ugmmyo Ibr, ,sv1fupu2sCs,, uCm 
upu2sCs,, 81 br7,sv1 u, u p2rIs2 ,ss7, 
IuCIu78gCI I8 Ibs 7urCIsCuCVs 81 br, IuvsCIT 
egs I8 Ibs V8vv8:gruv CuIg2s 81 br, p2rIrCio Q 
u,,g7sm IbuI br, 288I, rC 9r,,r,,r..r uCm 
12s:gsCI 2sIg2C dr,rI, I8 br, Vbrvmb88m b87s 
.28drmsm V8C,IuCI rC,.r2uIr8C I8 5ss. g. br, 
V8v821gv Vbu2uVIs2rquIr8C, uCm ,I82y ,rIguIr8C,T 
UgI Ugmmy ,uy, bs bu,CWI nssC I8 9r,,r,,r..r 
,rCVs u ERç’W, mgV5fbgCIrCi sk.smrIr8Co uCm 
IbuI Ibs VbuCis, I8 br, b87sI8pC uCm Ibs 
b8g,s pbs2s bs i2sp g. buds s,I2uCism br7 
1287 Ibs 9r,,r,,r..r IbuI bs .urCI, rC br, 
,I82rs,T QC 1uVIo sdsCI, uCm v8VuIr8C, 81 
UgmmyW, Vbrvmb88m u2s vs,, Ibs nu,r, 182 br, 
,I82rs, IbuC u ,82I 81 •.8rCI 81 ms.u2Ig2sT•
•Q i2sp g. rC 9r,,r,,r..ro Q buds C8I 
vrdsm Ibs2s rC 7uCy ysu2,T Q vs1I pbsC Q pu, u 
IssCuis2 uCm psCI rCI8 Ibs AudyT Q mrm V87s 
nuV5 uCm i8 I8 V8vvsis Ibs2so uCm Q budsCWI 
vrdsm Ibs2s ,rCVsT Q 2suvvy m8CWI sdsC buds 
1u7rvy Ibs2s uCy782so ,8 Ibs 9r,,r,,r..r QW7 
p2rIrCi un8gI r, C8I 8Cs Q 2s7s7ns2 ,8 7gVb 
u, 8Cs QW7 V2suIrCi 8gI 81 7s782rs,T• Q28Crz
Vuvvyo Ibs 9r,,r,,r..r IbuI Ugmmy 2sfdr,rI, rC br, 
p2rIrCi r, Ibs 8Cs IbuI bs v8Cism I8 s,Vu.s 
1287 pbsC bs mrm vrds Ibs2sT •Q puCIsm 8gI 
sds2 ,rCVs Q pu, u vrIIvs 5rmo• bs Isvv, 7sT •QWm 
v885 uI Ibs ,gC,sI uCm ,uyo Wlbs2sW, lsku,W 82 
pbs2sds2T•

---------------------------------------------------

Sr,IsCrCi I8 Ugmmy Iuv5 81 Ibs ,7uvv .u2I 
81 br, vr1s IbuI bs ,.sCI rC 9r,,r,,r..ro Q 
p8Cms2sm uI pbs2s Ibs ,8g2Vs 81 ,I2sCiIb uCm 
rC,.r2uIr8C 182 br, p2rIrCi 7ribI vrsT SuIs2 rC 
Ibs rCIs2drsp u, ps mr,Vg,,sm Ibs 2sV8CVrvruz
Ir8C 81 br, p2rIrCi uCm IsuVbrCi Vu2ss2,o bs 
rCumds2IsCIvy uC,ps2sm Ibs :gs,Ir8C 182 7sT
•Q 2suvvy v8ds nsrCi u IsuVbs2o Q VuCWI ns u 
IsuVbs2 gCvs,, QW7 u p2rIs2o Ib8gibT lbs2sW, 
,87s ,.r2rIguv .u2I 81 7s IbuI r, 1rvvsm g. ny 
7y p2rIrCio uCm pbsC IbuI r, 1gvvo uCm pbsC 
QW7 78,I 1gvvy 7y,sv1 u, u p2rIs2o IbsC QW7 unvs 
I8 ns u IsuVbs2T•
c82 7so uCm vr5svy 78,I 8Ibs2 .8IsCIruv 
p2rIs2,o Ibs .28,.sVI 81 u 1gIg2s IsuVbrCi 
.8,rIr8C bu, 8VVg2sm I8 7s rC uC 8..8,rIs 
,sC,sT lbuI r,o Q r7uirCsm IbuI ,87smuy QWm 
IsuVb ,8 IbuI Q V8gvm ,g..82Io 7y,sv1 u, u 
p2rIs2T cv8psds2o Ugmmy Csds2 umm2s,,sm Ibs 
r,,gs rC Is27, 81 1rCuCVruv V8CdsCrsCVsT !C 
Ibs V8CI2u2yo bs ,uy,o •Q v8ds I8 IsuVbo uCm u 
.u2I 81 rI r, IbuI Q v8ds I8 ns u28gCm .s8.vs pb8 
u2s rCIs2s,Ism rC p2rIrCiT lbs2sW, u nri .u2I 81 
7s IbuI IbrC5, IbuI sdsC r1 Q ps2s ds2yo ds2yo 
psuvIby uCm mrmCWI buds I8 IsuVbo Q ,Irvv p8gvm 
IsuVbTTT Q p8gvm Csds2 :grI IsuVbrCi nsVug,s 
Ibs ,Ir7gvuIr8C 81 .u2IrVgvu2vy y8gCi .s8.vso 
ngI .s8.vs 81 uvv uis, pb8 u2s I2yrCi I8 ngrvm 
Ibsr2 vrds, u28gCm Ibs V2suIr8C 81 ,I82rs, uCm 
.8s7, r, ds2yo ds2y skVrIrCi I8 7so uCm Q 1rCm 
,87s 81 pbuI QW7 VuvvrCi W,.r2rIguv 1gv1rvv7sCIW 
1287 IbuI u, psvv u, 1287 p2rIrCiT QIW, u .u2I 81 
pb8 Q u7 u, u p2rIs2 I8 V2suIs u p2rIrCi 
V877gCrIy u28gCm 7sT w8o rI*, su,rvy 2sV8Cz
Vrvsm I8 7sBp2rIrCi uCm IsuVbrCiTTT QI 2suvvy 
r, uC r7.82IuCI .u2I 81 7y vr1sT•
SrdrCi rC PrII,ng2ib bu, .28drmsm 
Ugmmy prIb 782s IbuC u IsuVbrCi .8,rIr8C 
1287 pbrVb bs VuC 1gv1rvv br7,sv1 ,.r2rIguvvy u, 
u p2rIs2T crs r, 18Cm 81 Ibs VrIyo •vu7 
1u,VrCuIsm ny Ibs puIs2 puy, uCm n2rmis, 
uCm ny Ibs ,bgI m8pC u2su, 81 PrII,ng2ib B 
Ibs 7rvv,o uCm sdsC Ibs A82Ib wrmso pbrVb r, 
u ,I2uCis vrIIvs CsIbs2fp82vm 81 rI, 8pC pbrVb 
r, 5rCm 81 dr8vsCIo uI vsu,I rC 7y r7uirCuIr8Co 
5rCm 81 dr8vsCI uCm ,I2uCisT LCm Q*7 nsirCz
CrCi I8 r7uirCs u 7yIb8v8iy 81 PrII,ng2ib 
IbuI V87s, I8 7s rC Ibs ,u7s puy IbuI 7y 
7yIb8v8iy 81 Ibs w8gIb Vu7s I8 7sT A8I 
,I2rVIvy 8gI 81 Ibs 2suvrIy 81 Ibs w8gIb 82 
PrII,ng2ibo ngI 8gI 81 svun82uIr8C, 81 r7uis, 
81 .vuVs, uCm .s8.vs IbuI Q ,ssT•
lbr, 7yIb8v8iy IbuI Ugmmy ,.su5, 81 
,ss7, I8 buds rC1vgsCVsm Ibs d8rVs, 81 
Vbu2uVIs2, IbuI bs bsu2, ,Ir22rCi rC br, 7rCmo 
.g,brCi I8 isI 8gIT Ns bu, p2rIIsC Cg7s2z
8g, ,I82rs, un8gI wgiu2o ,I82rs, un8gI u 
:gum2r.vsirV Cu7sm Drv,8C uCm br, uIIsCz
muCIo Nu22r,8CT NsW, p2rIIsC 1287 Ibs .8rCI 
81 drsp 81 u y8gCi p87uCo 8vm .s8.vso uCm 
81 u CribI puIVb7uC rC u 1uVI82yo I8 Cu7s u 
1spT
•A8p QW7 nsirCCrCi I8 bsu2 uC8Ibs2 
d8rVso• bs V8C1rms, I8 7sT •L igy pb8 vrds, 
rC PrII,ng2ibo uCm bs r, 7u22rsm I8 u .,yVbrVT 
Nr, pr1s VuC 5C8p IbrCi, un8gI br7 uCm Ibs 
gCrds2,s u28gCm br7 uv78,I ny 7uirVT UgI 
,bs VuCWI 1rig2s 8gI IbuI bsW, budrCi uC u11ur2 
prIb uC8Ibs2 p87uCo• Ugmmy n2su5, rCI8 
vugibIs2T •QW7 sC|8yrCi Ibs V87smy 81 
v885rCi uI pbuI rIW, vr5s I8 ns 7u22rsm I8 u 
.,yVbrVT lbs pb8vs ,rvvrCs,, u..suv, I8 7s 
rC u puy IbuI wgiu2W, ,rvvy vrIIvs vr1s u..suvsm 
I8 7s u, psvvo ysI Q 1ssv ,87s V87.u,,r8C 
182 Ibs 7uCT Ns*, C8I wgiu2 i28pC g.' Q 
m8CWI IbrC5 bsW, wgiu2T UgI QW7 nsirCCrCi I8 
1ssv u 5rC,br. I8 br7 IbuI Q 1ssv prIb wgiu2o 
,8 Q ,g,.sVI 7y CskI n885 prvv ns un8gI 
br7T•
lbr, n885o Ugmmy mr,Vv8,s,o prvv vr5svy 
ns u C8dsvBu Cspo gCI2rsm VbuvvsCis 182 Ibs 
p2rIs2T MdsC C8po rC Ibs ds2y su2vy ,Iuis, 81 
Ibr, PrII,ng2ib Vbu2uVIs2W, msdsv8.7sCIo Q 
VuC ,ss IbuI Ugmmy bu,o uI vsu,I rC br, 7rCmo 
V2suIsm uC8Ibs2 .s2,8CuvrIy ,88C I8 ns ,sI 
12ss 8C Ibs .uis, 81 u n885T L .s2,8CuvrIy 
IbuI Q b8.s I8 isI I8 5C8p |g,I u, Q buds 
V87s I8 5C8p uCm sC|8y wgiu2 uCm Ibs 2s,I 
81 Ugmmy*, •12rsCm,T•
L, 7y rCIs2drsp prIb Ugmmy m2up, I8 u 
Vv8,sT Q 1ssv u, Ib8gib Ibs b8g2 IbuI QWds ,.sCI 
prIb br7 bu, nu2svy sCunvsm 7s I8 ,V2uIVb Ibs 
,g21uVs 81 Ibs Is22r1rV .88v 81 rCI2rigrCi uCm 
rC1827uIrds uCsVm8Is,o Ib8gibI,o uCm sk.s2rz
sCVs, IbuI ,bums Ibs p2rIs2W, .s2,8CuvrIyT Q 
uv,8 ,sC,s IbuI Ibs 811rVs bu, nsV87s :grIs 
V28pmsmBC8I ny 8Ibs2 n8mrs,o skuVIvyo ngI ny 
Ibs rCdr,rnvs .2s,sCVs 81 Ibs Vbu2uVIs2, IbuI 
ps*m nssC mr,Vg,,rCiT c82 uvv Q 5C8po Q IbrC5 
u, Q iuIbs2 7y C8Is, uCm Iu.s 2sV82ms2o Ibs 
2svuksmo Isuf,r..rCi ugIb82 ,rIIrCi uI 7y ,rms 
V8gvm psvv nso rC ,87s 7uirVuv puyo 8Cs 81 
Ibs,s p8Cms21gvvy uCr7uIsm Vbu2uVIs2, pb8 
|g,I bu..sCsm I8 uV:gr2s u bg7uC n8my uCm r, 
7u,:gs2umrCi u, Ugmmy A82muCT

---------------------------------------------------

Thomas “Stan” Musial
An excerpt from “Birthday”
Du5rCi g. pu, vr5s u ,5r. 8C u 2sV82mo 82 
uVVrmsCIuvvy Ig2CrCi Ip8 .uis, rC u n885 rC,Isum 81 
8CsT lbs Ir7sfIb2sum 81 7y vr1s ,ss7sm I8 i8 mr2sVIvy 
1287 nsrCi uI au2vW, S8gCis uCm ,.rvvrCi u ,b8I 81 Drvm 
lg25sy 8C 7y V28IVb I8 8.sCrCi 7y sys, QC u mu25 
2887o vyrCi 8C 7y nuV5T A8IbrCi rC nsIpssCT
wsC,uIr8C ,ss.sm rCI8 7y n8my vr5s ,.rvvsm nss2 rCI8 u 
m2y 2uio uCm Q 2suvrqsm Q pu, vyrCi rC 7y nsmT Q ,uI g.o 
IbsC ,I88m g.f ,v8pvyT Q mrmC*I 1ssv ds2y bgCi8ds2o 
pbrVb ,ss7sm ,I2uCis gCIrv Q 2suvrqsm IbuI Q pu, ,Irvv 
m2gC5T Q Ig2Csm I8 Ibs 2ribIo I885 Ip8 ,Is., uCm puv5sm 
QCI8 u puvvT
XDbuI IbsTT<
L ,7uvv a8vs7uC vuCIs2C nsiuC I8 iv8p rC Ibs nuV5 
81 7rCmo ,v8pvy rvvg7rCuIrCi 1uVI, uCm 7s782rs, gCIrv Q 
2suvrqsm IbuI Q pu, C8I rC 7y u.u2I7sCIo pbs2s Ibs 
nuIb2887 pu, I8 Ibs 2ribIo ngI uI 7y .u2sCI, b8g,so 
pbs2s Ibs nuIb2887 pu, ,I2uribI 182pu2mT Q Ig2Csm rC 
Ibs .28.s2 mr2sVIr8Co ,Is..sm 182pu2mo uCm .287.Ivy 
I2r..sm 8ds2 wIsdsW, vsiT
XDbuI Ibs 1gV5o 7uCY<
Xw822yo 7uCT< !C 7y buCm, uCm 5Css, ^pbrVb r, 
pbs2s Q ,b8gvm buds nssC QC Ibs 1r2,I .vuVs\ Q V2upvsm 
8ds2 Ibs ,vss.rCi n8mrs, 81 7y 12rsCm, I8 Ibs 
nuIb2887T
DrIb 7y bsum 2s,IrCi 8C Ibs puvv un8ds Ibs I8rvsIo Q 
I2rsm I8 .rsVs I8isIbs2 pbuI bum bu..sCsm Ibs CribI 
ns182sT Q 2s7s7ns2sm Ibs .u2Iyo Ibs dsisIunvs,o 
wu7uCIbuo uCm PuIIyT !b /8m_ Q bum 5r,,sm 
wu7uCIbu rC 128CI 81 PuIIyT Q ,.2uysm Ibs 1v882T
Q bum I8 Iuv5 I8 PuIIyT Q psCI I8 isI m2s,,smo IbsC 
2suvrqsm Q pu, ,Irvv 1gvvy Vv8IbsmT /88mT 9y Vu2 5sy, 
ps2s ,Irvv rC 7y 128CI .8V5sIo I88T QI pu, u i88m IbrCi Q 
bum 1uvvsC u,vss. 8C 7y nuV5o 82 Q p8gvm buds bum u
.s27uCsCI ,Vu2 8C 7y vsi rC Ibs ,bu.s 81 u UgrV5 
w5ybup5 riCrIr8C 5syT 9y vgV5y ,I2su5 V8CIrCgsm u, Q 
psCI 8gI rCI8 Ibs m2rdspuy uCm 18gCm IbuI GuIs uCm 
ab2r,IrCso rC,Isum 81 .u25rCi rC 7y m2rdspuy uCm 
nv8V5rCi 7s rCo bum .u25sm rvvsiuvvy rC 7y Csribn82*, 
yu2mT
/8m puIVbs, 8gI 182 nunrs,o 188v,o uCm m2gC5,o ,8 Q 
bum Ip8 8gI 81 Ib2ss i8rCi 182 7so pbrVb pu, .28nunvy 
Ibs 8Cvy 2su,8C Q 7ums rI PuIIy*, b8g,s prIb8gI nsrCi 
u22s,Ism 82 mr,7s7ns2smT LvIb8gib 7y n2urC bum 
1urvsm I8 2s7s7ns2 I8 qr. 7y 1vyo rI mrm 2sVuvv pbs2s 
PuIIyW, 1u7rvy 5s.I Ibs ,.u2s 5sy brmmsCT Q vsI 7y,sv1 
QC uCm 7ums 7y puy g. I8 PuIIy*, 2887T
wbs vuy 1uVs m8pCo bs2 n28pC bur2 vyrCi uV28,, bs2 
Vbss5T lbs 2887 pu, mu25o ngI Q 5Csp 1287 7s782y 
IbuI Ibs nsm,.2sumo puvv.u.s2 uCm Vu2.sI ps2s uvv 
V87.vs7sCIu2y ,bums, 81 .rC5o uCm IbuI Ibs ,bu.svs,, 
ngCmvs gCms2 bs2 u27 pu, 8CVs u n28pCf uCm i8vmf 
1g22sm nsu2 Cu7sm X92T Nu..yT• L, Q ,I88m ny Ibs 
m882o I2yrCi I8 IbrC5 81 u i88m puy I8 pu5s bs2 g.o 7y 
buCm un,sCI7rCmsmvy 2suVbsm 8gI uCm 1vr..sm 8C Ibs 
8ds2bsum vribIT P28nvs7 ,8vdsmT
wbs nvrC5sm uCm ,br1Ism uCm up85sT XDbuI& Db8 
r,TTT& DbuI Ir7s r, rI&< lbsC ,bs ,up 7sT X!bo bro 
wV8IIyT DbuI u2s y8g m8rCi bsTTlbsC Ibs a8vs7uC 
vuCIs2C rC bs2 8pC bsum vrI g. Ibs ,VsCs IbuI 8Cvy u 1sp 
b8g2, ns182s bum nssC Qvvg7rCuIsm ny bs2 9g,IuCiW, 
bsumvribI,T wbs Ib2sp 92T Nu..y uI 7sT
X/sI 8gI 81 bs2sY< ,bs ,V2su7smT •/sI 8gIY /sI 
8gIY<
Xwbbbbo< Q ,vg22smo Vv8,rCi Ibs m882T X08g2 .u2sCI, 
prvv bsu2T<
XQ*vv pu5s Ibs pb8vs Csribn82b88m r1 y8g*2s C8I 8gI 
rC Ip8 ,sV8Cm,T Q Csds2 puCI I8 ,ss y8g uiurCT<

---------------------------------------------------

XQ*vv Ig2C 8gI Ibs vribI,T• Q mrmT lbsy ps2s bg2IrCi 7y 
sys, uCypuyT Xlbs2sT A8p y8g VuC*I ,ss 7sT<
X08g nu,Iu2mY< ,bs ysvvsmo uCm Ip8 .rvv8p, brI 7s QC 
Ibs 1uVs ns182s 7y sys, V8gvm um|g,I I8 Ibs mu25Cs,,T
XPuIIyo |g,I vsI 7s Iuv5 I8 y8g 182 u 7rCgIsT< Q I885 u 
,Is. I8pu2m, Ibs nsmT
XA8Y• LC8Ibs2 .rvv8p brI 7sT
XPvsu,sT< LC8Ibs2 ,Is.T
XA8Y• L ,Ig11sm uCr7uv Ibr, Ir7sT QI pu, Ibs Uu7nro
Q IbrC5T
XPvsu,so PuIIyo |g,I 182 u 7rCgIsT• Q I885 8Cs 782s 
,Is.T LC8Ibs2 uCr7uv uCm Q pu, irdrCi g.T
A8 uCr7uvT wbs bum srIbs2 2svsCIsm 82 2gC 8gI 81 
u77gCrIr8CT lbs2s pu, u v8Ci .ug,sT
Xwuy y8g2 .rsVsT<
Q ,uI 8C Ibs smis 81 bs2 nsum uCm bsvm 7y buCm 8gI 
I8 bs2,T wbs Vg2vsm g. 8C Ibs 8Ibs2 ,rms 81 Ibs nsmo 
5Css, I8 bs2 VbrCo bs2 .rC5 V87182Is2 u28gCm bs2T 9y 
buCm 1svvT
X08g*2s m2gC5o< ,bs ,urmT
X0subo< Q 5rCm 81 vugibsmo IbsC 2suvrqsm IbuI Ibr, 
pu,C*I 2suvvy 1gCCyT X08g Csds2 ,ssC 7s m2gC5 
ns182s&•
XA8T< LC8Ibs2 2sdsvuIr8CT Mds2 ,rCVs Q bum ,Iu2Ism 
buCirCi 8gI prIb wIsds uCm LCmy uCm Ib8,s igy, vu,I 
ysu2o Q pu, m2gC5 uvv Ibs Ir7sT LI ,Vb88vo rI ,ss7sm 
vr5s ,sV8Cm CuIg2s I8 ns m2gC5o ngI I8 PuIIy Q 7g,I 
,ss7 vr5s Q*ds i8Cs 7umT Q Ib8gibI un8gI rIT lbs2s 
pu, uC8Ibs2 v8Ci .ug,sT
XDsvv&< ,bs u,5smT
Q bum C8 rmsu pbuI I8 ,uyT Q 8Cvy 5Csp IbuI 7y 1r2,I 
r7.gv,s g.8C 2suvrqrCi pbuI Q bum m8Cs pu, I8 V87s
bs2s uCm 7u5s IbrCi, nsIIs2T Q bum C8I ,.sCI 8Cs 
,sV8Cm IbrC5rCi un8gI pbuI I8 ,uyT
XJ2Co< Q ,Iu2Ismo IbsC ,I8..smT XJ7o• Q ,urm uiurCT 
lbr, pu, C8I i8rCi psvvT
Xe8 y8g v8ds bs2&< PuIIy u,5smT Q pu, uI 8CVs 
i2uIs1gv 182 Ibs :gs,Ir8C uCm ,b8V5sm ny rIT
“What? No. Of course I don’t love her. I love..." 
U8yo IbuI ,g2s ,ss7sm vr5s u ,Ig.rm IbrCi I8 ,uy 2ribI 
C8pT
XDb8& 9s&• Q V8gvm bsu2 Ibs Isu2, rC bs2 d8rVsT 
Xlbs2s*, C8 Cssm I8 vrs uCy782sT•
XQ pu,C*I vyrCiT< Q pu,C*IT Q bum I8vm PuIIy E v8dsm 
bs2o uCm Q bum 7suCI rIT XQ pu,C*IT<
XlbsC b8p V8gvm y8g&< wbs ,Iu2Ism ,8nnrCiT
N8p V8gvm Q& QI pu,C*I u :gs,Ir8C 81 b8p Q V8gvm m8 
rIT Q |g,I mrm rIT Q 7sI wu7uCIbu 8C u c2rmuy sdsCrCio 
uCm ny 7rmCribI rI ,ss7sm vr5s ,.sCmrCi uvv 7y Ir7s 
prIb bs2 pu, u, CuIg2uv u, n2suIbrCiT DbsC Q pu, prIb 
bs2o C8IbrCi sv,s sCIs2sm 7y 7rCmT QI pu, vr5s i8rCi I8 
nsm uCi2yo ,8 uCi2y y8g IbrC5 y8g*vv Csds2 1uvv u,vss.o 
uCm pbsC y8g pu5s g.o rI*, u Csp muy uCm y8g m8C*I 
sdsC 2s7s7ns2 y8g bum nssC uCi2y gCIrv ,87s8Cs 
2s7rCm, y8gT Q mrmCWI sdsC 2s7s7ns2 Q bum u ir2v12rsCm 
uI b87s gCIrv Q pu, 2s7rCmsmT
XQ m8C*I 5C8pT< N8p V8gvm Q Isvv PuIIy IbuI ,bs mrmC*I 
sdsC sCIs2 7y 7rCm& Q ,Irvv 1svI Ibs ,u7s puy I8pu2m, 
bs2T Q ,Irvv v8dsm bs2o Q igs,,T Q |g,I mrmC*I IbrC5 81 bs2 
gCIrv rI pu, I88 vuIsTTT

---------------------------------------------------

All excerpt from “The l.rrand l*oy”
A tiny room. A big brown air conditioner stuck in the 
window. Little puddles of water gather on top. A loud hum 
comes from the air conditioner. It vibrates in the window. The 
whole house seems to shake.
“Dad, we should do something about that noise.”
“Don’t you think I know that? But what? I’m not a me­
chanic. You fix it.”
“All right.”
“All right. And hurry up. That noise is drowning out the ball 
game... What’d you do that for?”
“What?”
“Unplug it”
“I gotta turn it off to fix it.”
“Boy, you can’t turn that off. It’s a hundred degrees outside. 
I’ll roast in this little room with no air condition. Can’t you see 
I’m tryin’ to watch the ball game?”
The son tries to visit the old man as often as he can. He is 
always helpful but fears he is never helping. The son plugs the 
air conditioner back in and pulls a chair up next to his father.
“This road trip is killing the Pirates,” the old man shouts 
over the returning hum.
“Uh-huh,” says the son.
“What’d you say, Ray?”
“I said, ‘Uh-huh, it is.’”
The two men sit in silence for awhile, watching the television 
screen. The younger one takes out his shirttail to wipe the 
sweat from his face.
“They’ll be all right when they get back to Forbes Field,” the 
older one says.
“What?”
“Yessir. They play great at old Forbes.” The old man smiles. 
“Dad.”
“Almost unbeatable.”
“Dad, they tore down Forbes Field twenty years ago.”
“Damn near unbeatable,” he says softly.
Kay lakes his lallier 1» his house for dinner. The old man
sits alone in a chair in a bigger room watching a bigger TV. He 
watches The Errand Boy starring Jerry Lewis. Ray’s son, Rick, 
enters the room. The old man lights up at the sight of his 
grandson.
“Hi, Grandpa. Dad told me you were here.”
“Hello, Ricky. How’s it goin’, boy?”
“Not bad.” Rick lies down on the couch, placing a damp 
cloth across his face. “Sure is hot, though.”
“Hot. Yessir. It is hot. Hey Ricky, I was wonderin’.”
“What about, Grandpa?”
“You got yourself a girlfriend? I was thinkin’ that you should 
get yourself a girlfriend.”
“You remember Annie. 1 introduced you once. I’ve been 
going out with her for awhile now. Things haven’t been going 
so well for us lately, though. You know how it is, Grandpa.
She’s always ordering me around. Take me here. Buy me this. 
Who needs that?”
“Who needs that, Ricky? Who needs that? I agree with you, 
boy. Women.” He shakes his head. “Women,” he repeats. 
“You know where she wants me to take her now?”
The «Id man slares at Kick, lie doesn’t appear to be 
listening.
“The opera.” Hick sits up. “Ho you believe dial, (irandpa? 
The opera. Xow maybe I should go because I could use llic 
sleep, but where am I going to get the money lor tickets? She’s 
already told ail her friends that we’re going, so if I don’t come 
up with llicin, I look like llic bad guy.”
liick looks into his grandfather’s eyes, lie notices no 
expression. The face contains only a weak smile, liick lies 
back down. .Minutes pass.
“So, Iticky, you got yourself a girlfriend?”
“\o, (irandpa, no girlfriend.”

---------------------------------------------------

wM­MA wJ99Mtw
lbuI ,g77s2 ,ss7sm I8 vu,I 182sds2T
QI 2urCsm uvv Ib28gib £gCso uCm 8C pu27 CribI, 
tuVbsv uCm Q Vvr7nsm g. 8C bs2 Iu2f.u.s2sm 2881o 
,vr..rCi 8gI Ib28gib bs2 nsm2887 prCm8po 
I8 ,rI u27 rC u27 rC Ibs 788CvribI vr5s ,r,Is2, 
82 v8ds2,o mr,Vg,,rCi .2s,,rCi 7uIIs2, 
vr5s vg,I uCm ,grVrms uCm CgVvsu2 pu2o 
2sIg2C I8 nsm uCm ,vss. vr5s ,.88C,T
£gvy bsuIsm rI g.T euy, pbsC rI brI E’’° 
ps Ig2Csm Ibs ,Is2s8 uvv Ibs puy I8 IsCT
>u..u 2uIIvsm vrIIvs IbrCi, 811 ,bsvds,
uCm 8gI 81 8g2 7rCm, u, ps ,uCi v8gmvy uv8CiT
Lv8Cs I8isIbs2 Q nu,5sm rC bs2 ,7rvs
uCm V8gvm r7uirCs 7y,sv1 s:guv I8 bs2 nsugIyT
DbsC n8y12rsCm, nsiuC I8 V87s b8ds2 u28gCm bs2 
Q ,uI Csu2 bs2 uCm VgvIrduIsm u IbrV5 18i 
81 ,uIr2rV ms.2s,,r8C IbuI 7ums 7s 
r1 C8I nsugIr1gv uI vsu,I ,s2r8g,T
w8 pbsC Ibsy vugibsm rC bs2 n2ribICs,, 
Q ,7r25sm 7suCrCi1gvvy uCm vuIs2 rC Ibs ysvv8p 5rIVbsC 
um78Cr,bsm bs2 |suv8g,vy_ be careful for gods' sakes 
pbsC ,bs ,ss7sm I8 ns budrCi I88 7gVb 1gCT
wbs p8gvm prC5 uCm vugibo 5r,, 7s vribIvyT
Uy Lgig,I QWm 2rmmsC 7y nrVyVvs 
I8 bs2 b8g,s u bgCm2sm Ir7s, I8 vr,IsC mgIr1gvvy 
I8 Ibs 287uCIrV ,uiu 81 Ibs .u,I CribIo 
I8 Ibs .2818gCm .brv8,8.by 81 bs2 vuIs,I v8dso 
I8 i2u,. .rIr1gvvy 182 bs2 ,vr..s2y uIIsCIr8C,T
wsdsC ,g77s2, uCm u Ib8g,uCm ,IrCirCi
7s782rs, vuIs2 Q ,Irvv VvrCi 1urCIvy
rC v8Ci I2uC,V8CIrCIsCIuv .b8Cs Vuvv,o
rC Ibs sCVbuCIrCi ,I285s, 81 bs2 buCmp2rIrCio
rC ,I2uCis p8gCmsm dr,rI, IbuI ,sCm 7s pbr2vrCi
I8 Ibs 2881I8., uCm mudsC.82I, 81 IbuI drdrm ,g77s2T
Q
M2r5u PsIs2,8C

---------------------------------------------------

lbs Uu22 s11sVI
Lvv VuvrV8 VuI, u2s 1s7uvs 182 
isCsIrV 2su,8C, nsy8Cm Ibs ,V8.s 81 
Ibr, .8s7 budrCi I8 m8 prIb Ibs 
s7n2y8CrV rCuVIrduIr8C 81 8Cs 81 u
%Yy y X XYx
lia
V2suIrCi u .uIVbp825 81 V8v82 rC Ibs 
V8uI 81 Ibs VuI
c82 Ibr, 2su,8C Ibs2s ,buvv ns C8 
.8s7, p825, 81 u2I vsIIs2, ,I82rs, 
1rv7, 82 ,8Ci, skI8vvrCi Ibs dr2Igs, 
Ibs skI2u82mrCu2y ,I2sCiIb uCm ,.ssm 
Ibs 1urIb1gv CuIg2s .vsu,uCI Is7.s2 
8ds2uvv skVsvvsCVs 81 ,.r2rI 81 Ibs 
7uvs VuvrV8 VuI
ofG ver nmtB rksBef nmkrk Bmsll bk 
fe ktnnkfB BtrkG by csltce nemB fer 
Bmsll plsyvul bufGlkB ev menlky vur 
bk svstlsblk tf enmkr nmsf nmk 
GtBnsvv vsrtkny
All the calico studs hang out in the 
ether with the female mules the male 
black widows and praying mantises 
dying of old age all waiting for 
that shift of logic permitting them 
to thrive

---------------------------------------------------

So Yoi OUsh ho lw U Goaf & Gomm ShUu VUs wggUL0 lL FUaf Svmlwuh
'.Í*it
Like every boy who’s grown up in the U.S. since the fifties. I’ve always wanted to play the 
guitar. This desire came rushing back the other day when my friend Jim let me strap on his Telecaster.
It felt real awkward, because guitars, like most everything, are manufactured for right-handed folks. I 
am a lefty. But so was Hendrix.
When I was 12 or 13,1 really, really, really wanted to play guitar. I have had a rock star fantasy 
since I was quite young. Around puberty, however, fantasy and reality tend to blur a bit. I spent many 
hours looking at “Teach Yourself Guitar” books in the back of record stores. I had no time for lessons.
I had to learn as quickly and easily as possible.
I was discouraged before I even got the chance to buy a guitar. I saw friend after friend buy a 
guitar, struggle with it for a few months, and give up. The most discouraging of all was my neighbor 
John. John had already tried and failed at the drums. John had money. John bought three guitars, 
two amplifiers, and several effects boxes - wah-wah pedals, echo pedals, distortion pedals, you name 
it. These pedals are rather effective at disguising an absolute lack of talent.
John bought every guitar lesson available. He bought books, magazines, records, and tapes. He 
practiced eveiy day but nothing worked. He couldn’t play a damn thing. Oh, he could play part of a 
solo from “Stairway to Heaven." And the middle of something by Rush. And, of course, the beginning 
to “Smoke on the Water.” If you gave a hundred monkeys a hundred guitars, they would immediately 
play the beginning to “Smoke on the Water,” and probably get signed to Atlantic Records.
So I decided to go with another instrument - the harmonica. It was small, simple, and cheap (I 
have been described the same way). Of course, I couldn’t emulate guitar gods like Clapton, Beck, and 
Van Halen. I needed new heroes. Dylan. Springsteen. Toots Thielmann.
Then I bought a book and tape lesson for beginners. I also bought “The Beatles Greatest Hits - 
For Harmonica." Guess what. I couldn’t learn a damn thing. Oh, I learned the end of “Blowin’in. the 
Wind.” I could pick out “All My Loving” and the beginning of U2’s “Trip Through Your Wires.” Once I 
played “Amazing Grace” through my nose at a talent show. But overall, I just couldn’t play songs. Not 
knowing how to read sheet music didn’t help, either.
This is where the beauty of the harmonica comes in - you don’t have to know how to play. It’s 
easy to fake. Just blow into random holes, and it sounds like you know what you’re doing. These are 
called “riffs.” Stand around people who can actually play guitars and stuff, and every once in awhile, 
play a riff. Start referring to your harmonica as a mouth harp. Pretty soon you will be a blues master.
I was too young and idealistic to be playing the blues, though. I had rock ’n roll in my soul. So 
I walked across the street to John’s, and we formed a band. I’d like to call it a garage band, but it was 
actually a bedroom band. Occasionally we’d write songs in other places - the middle of the street, my 
backyard, John’s family’s trailer in the Poconos. But we always recorded in John’s bedroom, into his 
boom box. We called ourselves “Los Dos Orphanes.” It was Spanish for the Two Orphans. We 
recorded two albums before we realized that “Orphanes” wasn’t a word. Our Spanish teacher, Señor 
Gil, would-refer to it as Spanglish. So on our third album, we changed our name to Los Dos 
Huérfanos.
John played guitar. I sang and played harmonica. John also sang background vocals, and I 
occasionally played the bongos. We used an assembly line approach to making music. We could 
write, rehearse, and record a song in half an hour or less. Our formula was simple - we decided on a 
song title and a rhyming scheme. Then we alternated coming up with lines. We didn’t write music - 
we improvised. And we each got a solo in each song. Long, screeching, tuneless solos.
To put it lightly, we sucked. We couldn’t play our instruments. Our lyrics had a rather 
disjointed quality. And as my father would say, I sang like a bird - a vulture. But we sure had fun. It 
felt great to hear the finished product. And believe it or not, every once in awhile, we sounded all 
right. Call it inspiration. Call it dumb luck.
We cranked out songs steadily for about two years. Then we learned how to drive and it was 
all over. We reunited after we graduated high school. The critics claimed we were just cashing in on 
the nostalgia craze. I disagree. We put out some of our tightest stuff to date on those sessions. 
Unfortunately, we only got through half of our fourth album before John and I went our separate ways 
again. I think the completed songs were released as an EP in Europe.
No matter how different John and I become, we’ll always have our rock ’n roll roots. And I’ll 
remember those songs forever - our early nugget, “Shut Up”, and its haunting chorus,
Shut Up, Shut Up 
Go drink out of that cup 
Shut Up, Shut Up 
Your mom looks like a pup.
Classics like “Big Ed”, “Lefty’s Bus”, and “At the Mall”. And who could forget the holiday favorite, 
“Christmas Bone”?
My musical career has tailed off since then. Every now and then I’ll write some lyrics, and at the 
bottom, write, “copyright 1991, Huerfano Discos.” That’s Spanish for Orphan Records - at least I think 
it is.
I don’t think I’ll ask Jim to teach me how to play guitar. But maybe someday I’ll learn. And I’ll 
buy one of those harmonica stands you strap around your neck so you can play guitar at the same 
time, like Neil Young. Our maybe I can just build one out of the headgear from my orthodontics days. 
Then some guys will hear me play in a folk club in the Village, and we’ll start a band. It will be 
intelligent rock with jangly guitars and driving rhythms. We will sell millions of records without 
compromising our sound. I will be hailed as the voice of a generation. In some small way, I wjll, , ¡
fchange the world. If only I gan get past “Smoke W the Waiter." '' '.*!< ‘

---------------------------------------------------

I have a raw fear
I have this raw fear 
that she will sweat 
next to someone else, away from me
I want to lose myself in my words 
so I brush my teeth clean 
and fantasize about sitting with a friend 
yelling over traffic 
about how I couldn't
lie tells me she looked beautiful 
she stroked his hair 
He wonders over
He wanders over how beautiful she looked
she pushed her own feet against his 
The smile over his face wonders into what 
he wants
I enjoy the way her smell tastes 
in my mouth, how full her odor 
is even under my arms
I enjoy figuring out whose smell 
was whose, under the covers
Now I brush my teeth 
and feel how our smell
mixes with the general public I have a raw fear
how uncomfortable my mind is
with the thought of one good body against another
I have been against her in smell

---------------------------------------------------

A wake
in the
Turning Season
b have frozen myself in a stale lake in March 
to feel me scream—
—for all of those docile and stagnant 
in their bright heat, to hear me scream.
A wave bounds and rebounds 
against the fir trees, loosing snow flakes ephemeral in the sea.
ab2r,I8.bs2 lb87u,

---------------------------------------------------

Ësaÿæ#4|| 
;(jown 01 fi'
P
pTunch together 
ebruary nights, 
and curfdlb wrinkled
mwßmmmm
onéÿlAyown
of crack^ coíicreíe sf^pP^:\ 
wh^^lpPple in lang greet!
Brunch together 
f^brua*ynlgfetsA 4 
and cudÉë wrinkled^i^ÉI 
brown $550ind0odrpppppppzes
dUg

---------------------------------------------------

John Vresilovic
An excerpt from “Sex and Death 
in Planktown”
Red Golinsky and Patty Plowcha were 
married in May of 1968, on an Army base in Ohio. 
They did not want to wait until Red got out of the 
service because they feared he would be sent to 
Vietnam. Neither of them knew exactly where 
Vietnam was—only that Red could get himself killed 
there.
The prospect of Red being sent anywhere 
out of the United States was troublesome to his 
father. Fat Golinsky knew his son all too well; he 
could envision a scenario in which Red was seduced 
by a prostitute—in Vietnam, for instance—and 
subsequently changed his name, married the evil 
woman and settled down to a new life on a farm on 
the outskirts of Saigon, as a grower of opium and 
raiser of chickens: such was the magnitude of Red's 
lust
And so it was with his father's blessing that 
Red and Patty were married on the Army base—but 
on the condition that the marriage not be 
consummated until after Red had been discharged 
from the service. Fat had no doubts as to whether the 
relationship might already have reached that stage of 
intimacy: he knew that Patty was not willing to give 
herself to Red before the boy put a wedding ring on 
her finger.
The couple protested that it would be a 
year before they would see each other again, and
that Red could be killed while overseas, in which 
case they would never be able to fully express their 
love for each other. But the old man was adamant.
“As long as you have that to look forward to," he told 
Red, “I know you won't shack up with some floozy or 
get yourself killed."
Fat intended to ensure that his condition be 
met by personally driving Patty to Ohio and keeping 
watch over the newlyweds on their wedding night.
The couple tried to find someone else to drive Patty 
out, but no one in Red's family would oppose Fat, 
and no one in Patty's family had a car that would 
make it all the way to Ohio. Reluctantly, then, they 
agreed; on the night of their wedding, Red would stay 
in his barracks and Patty would stay in a motel room.
Fat took no chances; he picked the 
cheapest motel, with the thinnest walls, that he could 
find. From his room adjacent to Patty's, he could hear 
every creak of her bedsprings, every rustle of her 
sheets. The husband and wife of but a few hours 
were permitted to be alone in Patty’s room until ten 
o'clock, while Fat listened through a glass he held up 
to the wall of his own room. There were some tense 
moments for the old man, because the newlyweds, 
from the sound of it, in their passion seemed intent 
on devouring each other's faces; and because certain 
things they said were unintelligible through the glass 
filter. But never did Fat suspect that they were 
attempting to travel any further down the road to 
intercourse, and so the fire extinguisher with which 
he had armed himself was not put to use.
After Red left, his father opened up a 
newspaper, poured himself the first of many cups olf 
black coffee and began his all-night vigil against his. 
son's lust. Needless to say, come the next morning
he was in no shape to drive back to Pennsylvania.
But he had accomplished his task; there had been no 
nocturnal shenanigans in Room 17 of the Shangri-La 
Motel.
That morning, after Red came out from the 
base and the three of them had breakfast, the 
newlyweds bade each other a farewell that was 
surprisingly reserved, in Fat's opinion. But he was 
tired, and so as he and his new daughter-in-law set 
out for Planktown with her behind the wheel, he 
thought little of the incident.
They had not gone more than a few miles 
when Patty announced that she had to go to the 
bathroom. Fat, who in his sour mood did not want to 
get off the highway, instructed her to pull off the road 
and do her business in the woods.
“I have to make a b.m.," Patty said.
“You can wipe yourself with leaves," he 
reminded her.
“That's true,“ she replied, but the car did 
not slow down.
And so, because Fat already had more 
than enough to feel guilty about—having denied the 
couple the marital pleasure they were entitled to—he 
relented. They took an exit and pulled in to a gas 
station. Due to his fatigue Fat did not make much of 
Patty's gentle insistence upon going to the Esso as 
opposed to the Pennzoil or the Sinclair. Nor was he 
made suspldous by the twenty minutes which 
elapsed before Patty returned from the ladies' room 
with a contented smile on her face.
“Holy smokel" Fat exclaimed. “I thought 
you fell in. It mustVe been a good one.'
“It was wonderful," Patty said.

---------------------------------------------------

Jonathan Weidlinger
An excerpt from
"I Know the Scenario By Heart"
Q 5C8p Ibs ,VsCu2r8 ny bsu2I_ 
9y ,r,Is2o ArCuo nv8p, rCI8 8g2 
u.u2I7sCI rC Asp 0825 arIy' u ,I8.z
8ds2 nsIpssC wuC c2uCVr,V8 uCm 
t87s 82 ,87s 8Ibs2 sk8IrV .vuVs' ,bs 
psu2, u ysvv8p .rvv n8k buI uCm u 
mg11sv nui 8ds2 suVb ,b8gvms2o Vu22rs, 
skVrIs7sCI vr5s ,bs 8pC, rI uCm prvv 
vsuds 2r..vs, 81 prvm i8,,r. rC bs2 
pu5sT 98Ibs2 uCm cuIbs2 Vuvv bs2 
182sriC umdsCIg2s, •Drvm /88,s 
abu,s,• uCm u2s purIrCi 182 bs2 
•rCVvrCuIr8C I8 Cs,I• TTT I8 7u5s bs2 
vr1s V8qyT wbs ,Iuy, prIb u n8y12rsCm 
rC Ibs 2rIqyfivrIqy ,sVIr8C 98CIVvur2o 
Asp £s2,syT L1Is2 muqqvrCi 
umdsCIg2s, 8C Uvsu5s2 wI2ssIo 
,87sIr7s, ,bs •.8.,frC• uCm .vuCI, u 
5r,, 8C suVb Vbss5 81 787 uCm mumT 
c8g2 I8IuvT •lbs c2sCVb puy• ,bs 
,uy, uCm ,7rvs, prvIsm 28,s,T
wbs Vuvv, 7s uI V8vvsis uCm
Q mr,V8ds2 IbuI bs2 dr,rI r, .vuigsm ny 
Iby28rm .28nvs7,o ngI C8I bs2 8pCT 
Mds2y sdsCrCi ,bs m2rds, rC bs2 n8yz
12rsCmW, vgkg2r8g, SrCV8vC a8CIrCsCIuv 
I8 Asp 0825 arIy I8 msdr,s Csp puy, 
I8 I2rV5 l8nyo 8g2 ,rkIssC ysu2 8vm VuIo 
rCI8 ,puvv8prCi u vrIIvs ysvv8p .rvvT
wbs p2u., Ibs .rvv rC u .suVs 
81 5rmCsy uCm l8ny ,.rI, rI nuV5 8gI 
pbsC bs 2suVbs, Ibs V2gCVby ysvv8p 
VsCIs2T w8 ,bs ,IrV5, Ibs .rvv I8 Ibs 
s2u,s2 sCm 81 u .sCVrv uCm pbrvs 
b8vmrCi br, 78gIb 8.sC prIb 8Cs 
buCm ,bs 2suVbs, Ibs .sCVrv m8pC br, 
Ib28uI prIb Ibs 8Ibs2T MdsCIguvvy ,bs 
nv8p, Ibs ysvv8p .rvv m8pC br, Ib28uI 
Ib28gib u ,I2upT •lbs puy 1u27 
uCr7uv dsIs2rCu2ruC, m8 prIb b82,s, 
rC QIuvyT• ,bs ,uy,T
l8ny bu2mvy suI, uCm prvv 
Iu5s u ,r. 81 puIs2o 8Cvy I8 psI br, 
Ib28uIT Lv2sumy bs bu, v8,I V8CI28v 81 
br, n8pv 78ds7sCI, ,8 Ibs vrIIvs 188m 
bs suI, r, skV2sIsm 8C Ibs 1g2CrIg2sT 
98Ibs2 r, u, uCC8ysm u, ,bs r, ,umT 
wbs bu, irdsC g. I2yrCi I8 1ssm l8ny 
br, 7smrVrCs' Ibs 2su,8C ArCu m2rds, 
rC sds2y sdsCrCiT
l8ny m8s,CWI iurC uCy 
psribI uCm ,sds2uv muy, ns182s Q u7 
sk.sVIsm b87s 182 lbuC5,irdrCi 
duVuIr8C ArCu Vuvv, uiurC uCm Isvv, 7s
IbuI 78Ibs2 r, u12urm l8ny prvv .u,, 
upuy ns182s Q u22rdsT !2 p82,so bs 
prvv mrs 8ds2 lbuC5,irdrCi pss5sCmT 
wbs u,5 r1 Q puCI I8 V87s prIb bs2 I8 
buds br7 .gI I8 ,vss.T
•Q 2suvvy IbrC5 Q p8gvm 2uIbs2 
C8I ,ss br7T Q puCI I8 
2s7s7ns2 br7 u,TTT•
•w8 y8g m8CWI puCI I8 
V87s&•
•QWm 2uIbs2 C8ITTT gCvs,, y8g 
puCI 7s I8 V87sT Q 7suCo
QWvv m8 rI r1 y8g puCI 7s I8 
V87sTTTT e8 y8g puCI 7s 
I8 V87s prIb y8g&•
•0s,T•
•Lvv 2ribIo QWvv V87sT•
•e8CWI y8g IbrC5 y8g ,b8gvm 
V87sT e8CWI y8g puCI I8 
,ss br7 8Cs vu,I Ir7s&X
•A8I 2suvvyo ngI QWvv V87s r1 
y8g puCI 7s I8T !5uy&<
•Lvv 2ribIT• ,bs ,uy,T
•UgI b8p u2s y8gTTT• Q u,5T
LCm u 1sp muy, vuIs2 rC 8g2 
u.u2I7sCI rC Asp 0825o Q 8.sC Ibs 
m882 I8 7y 2887 uCm iuqs uI l8ny 
vyrCi 8C br, ,rms gCms2CsuIb u ,7uvv 
Iunvso I88 psu5 I8 vr1I br, bsum 1287 
pbs2s rI 2s,I, 8C br, 128CI vsiT Q 
V28gVb m8pC CskI I8 br7 8C Ibs 1v882 
uCm puIVb br, Vbs,I 2r,s uCm 1uvvT E 
puCI I8 uCis2 br7 B ,I285s uiurC,I 
Ibs i2urC 81 br, 1g2 uCm puIVb br7 
,sv1fr7.82IuCIvy ,pss. upuyo ,vss5 
uCm ,puyrCi vr5s u 1u,br8C 78msv 8C 
Ibs 2gCpuyT Q puCI br7 I8 ,sIIvs 8C 
Ibs vrdrCi 2887 2gi uCm psI m8pC br, 
nvuV5 |uV5sI ,brCy u, .uIsCI vsuIbs2 
,b8s,T UgI br, 1g2 r, i2su,y uCm buCi, 
v88,svy 1287 br, n8Cs, uCm Q u7 u12urm 
I8 I8gVb br7T
lbs CskI 782CrCi Q .gI br7 
rC br, VuI n8k uCm Vu22y br7 8gI Ibs 
m882T 9y 78Ibs2 puds, uCm ,uy,' 
•Uys l8nyT• ArCu bu, m2rdsC rC 1287 
Asp £s2,sy uCm purI, m8pC ,Iur2, rC 
bs2 n8y12rsCmW, n8uI 81 u Vu2T Q ,vr. rC 
Ibs 128CI ,suIo .vuVs Ibs VuI n8k 8C 7y 
vu. uCm .gvv Ibs m882 ,bgI B •cg7.•T 
lbs m882 ,bgI, ,788Ib uCm ps u2s 
,suvsm rC I8 u ,rvsCI Vu2 IbuI 1v8uI, 811 
Ib28gib VuCy8C ,I2ssI, 81 Ibs VrIyT
LI Ibs ­sIs2rCu2ruC ArCu 
rC,r,I, IbuI ps ,Iuy prIb l8ny pbrvs 
bs r, .gI I8 ,vss.T 9y ,I87uVb r, 
p88qy 1287 Ibs ,Is2rvs ,7svv 81 Ibs 
811rVs uCm E puCI I8 vsuds ngI Q ,IuCm 
ns,rms 7y ,r,Is2T wbs Vu2s,,s, l8ny
uCm vsI, bs2 Isu2, 1uvv 8C br, nvuV5 1g2 
pbrvs bs vrs, 8C u V8vm uCm ,brCy 7sIuv 
IunvsT Q puCI I8 b8vm 7y ,r,Is2 IribI rC 
7y u27,T QC,Isumo Q V8CVsCI2uIs 8C 
l8nyT Q ,I285s Ibs vsCiIb 81 br, C8,s 
prIb 8Cs 1rCis2 pr,brCi bs p8gvm Vv8,s 
br, sys, pbrvs Ibsy ,IrV5 Ibs rC|sVIr8C 
rCI8 br, brCm vsiT Q puIVb Ibs 2r,s uCm 
1uvv 81 br, Vbs,I 1ums uCm Ibs .g.rv, 81 
br, sys, mrvuIs I8 s7.Iy mu25Cs,, u, Ibs 
rC|sVIr8C Iu5s, s11sVIT ArCu puv5, 8gI 
Ibs m882 buCmrCi 7s bs2 L7s2rVuC 
sk.2s,,T •QWvv 7ssI y8g 8gI,rmso• ,bs 
,uy, pr.rCi bs2 1vg,bsm 1uVs prIb bs2 
182su27T
lbs muy ns182s lbuC5,irdrCi 
ArCu uCm Q m2rds Ibs u,bs, 8gI I8 8g2 
,g77s2 b87s rC U2rmisbu7.I8Co S8Ci 
Q,vuCmT !C Ibs puyo ps .vuy brms uCm 
,ss5 prIb Ibs 788C IbuI r, ivuqsm 2sm 
uCm buCirCi 8ds2 Ibs brvv, 81 su,Is2C 
S8Ci Q,vuCmT DbsC ps mu2I u28gCm u 
nsCm rC Ibs bribpuyo Ibs 788C ,vrms, 
nsbrCm Ibs vuCm,Vu.sT lbs ,5y m2urC, 
81 V8v82 uCm Ibs prCm mrs, I8 u ,81I 
sdsCrCi iuvsT QI r, vr5s Ibs bu2ds,I 
788C IbuI msvrVuIsvy un,82n, sCs2iy 
1287 rI, ,g228gCmrCi, I8 7urCIurC Ibs 
,81I 2sm iv8pT LI Ir7s, Ibs 788C r, ,8 
1gvv uCm 2sm Q 7r,Iu5s rI 182 u ,sIIrCi ,gC 
uCm uI 8Ibs2 Ir7s, Q .2sIsCm rI r, u nri 
2sm ,I8. vribIT lprVso rI ,ss7, r1 Q puv5 
g. u brvv Ibs 788C p8gvm ns Vv8,s 
sC8gib I8 Vvr7nT
av8,s2 I8 w8gIbu7.I8C Ibs 
28um r, 1vuC5sm prIb I2ss,T UsVug,s ps 
u2s m2rdrCi 1u,I uCm nsVug,s Ibs 
788CvribI 8Cvy 1rvIs2, Ib28gib Ibs 
182s,I VuC8.y rC ,7uvv n2ribI .uIVbs,o
Q buds Ibs rvvg,r8C ps u2s I2udsvrCi 
m8pC u ds2y ,I2uribI IgCCsvT

---------------------------------------------------

An excerpt from
“My Brother, the Fugitive”
Matt Wengraitis
A few ounces of liquid Drano later and the stain was finally 
gone. Beth stepped back for a second to admire her now clean soon-to- 
be-back-porch. A chill went up her spine. Red tinged some of the grass 
blades by her sneakers. It became a trail that led away from the back 
door...
...across the yard...
...over to the tool shed.
Another, smaller red stain was on the shed. She suddenly 
wished that Dan hadn’t gone.
Beth walked sofdy over to the shed door and held her ear next 
to it. She could hear something inside. It might have been a draft, or 
mice rustling around. The bottom, of Torrey woods was their back yard; 
they got a lot of mice there, and sometimes a woodchuck. But the rising 
and falling rustle sounded to her like someone breathing quietly. And 
with blood on the grass? Damn it, I wish I'd. remembered to grab 
another can of paint thinner last week.
Beth checked the tools she’d brought outside, then went back 
into the garage and walked around her car to where Dan had left his 
toolbox. She’d need something bigger than what she had outside. 
Probably some kid got drunk in the woods, started acting stupid, and
stumbled into the shed the night before. Beth hefted an eighteen-inch 
pipe wrench and started back outside.
Little Miss Dirty Harriet busts heads.... She hoped that any kid 
dumb enough to go hiding in someone’s shed after hurting himself 
would also be smart enough to bug out at the sight of something the size 
of the wrench.
Beth approached the shed again. Her palms were sweaty. 
Probably six-foot-two and plays nose tackle for Northeast high school.... 
She took the door handle and counted one...two...three!
The stench that billowed into her face was ungodly. Beth 
thought she’d pass out. Sweat, mildew, and sweat-soaking leather 
fermenting in the heat of a small wooden toolshed in July for what must 
have been hours. The closest thing to it was a football locker room at 
the end of the season.
Someone was sprawled on top of the lawn mower, with their 
old toolbox for a pillow. He awoke the instant she opened the door and 
began to scramble backwards, then knocked his head on a hanging 
bucket of nails. The bucket tipped, spilling all over him and the floor. 
He looked like he’d had the living daylights scared out of him. What

---------------------------------------------------

made her stare was his face, and his black leather jacket. It was her 
brother, Brian. She’d bought him the jacket for his twenty-first birth­
day. His “don’t-hurt-me” expression, that he always had when he was 
surprised, hadn’t changed since he’d turned seven.
“Brian? It’s me. It’s Beth! Hey, spaceball!”
He looked at her, finally coming completely awake. - 
“Beth...oh, thank God.” He slumped back down onto her tool chest. 
“You’re probably wondering...”
“You hit that one right on the head.”
“It’s a long story.” He stopped and hung his head despon­
dently. “I don’t know where to begin...are you going to brain me with 
that?”
Beth looked at her hands. She still brandished the wrench, like 
a baseball bat. “Oh. Sorry,” she said awkwardly. She leaned it against 
the door and asked, “What happened to you that you wound up like 
this?”
He jerked his head toward the woods. “Back there. Last
night.”
“Why?”
He pulled off his jacket as if he were undoing a long, heavy 
chain around his back. The shed was too cramped to move any other 
way. “I need to hole up with you for a few days.” He didn’t say 
anything else.
She stared at him . Brian wasn’t grinning the way he would 
when he was kidding around. “Hole up,” she repeated. “What are you 
talking about?”
He shook his head and rubbed the side of his face. His hands 
were dirty. She noticed that his right hand was wrapped with a scarlet-
stained sock, the same color as the stain on the door.
“Come on.” She pulled at his elbow. She saw that parts of the 
jacket were tom. Or were they slashed? “Let’s get you taken care of.” 
“No, damn it!” he shouted. Beth backpedaled and nearly 
tripped over the wrench. She hadn’t heard him raise his voice since his 
last temper tantrum, when he was twelve. He smirked. “I’m sorry. 
Look, I started to wake up when I heard your husband talking to you. I 
don’t want him to come back while I’m inside and find out that I’m 
here.”
“Well what do you want me to do, leave you in the shed?” 
“That’s exactly what I want you to do.”
They looked into each others’ eyes for a few more seconds, and 
she finally asked, “How much trouble are you in?”
“Not much,” he said. “Not as much as you think.” Again, he 
didn’t say anything else.
She sighed. Brian had always been stubborn. He wasn’t going 
to be moved by anything short of a crane. Which, she thought, Dan 
might well provide if he found someone looking as bad as Bri living in 
his toolshed. Beth also noticed that she was trembling. “There’s a first- 
aid kit in the tool chest that you’re sitting on. I’ll bring you some food.” 
Beth closed the door. She walked back toward the house and looked 
down the back yards on either side of her, wondering if anyone was 
watching the house. She wished that Dan hadn’t gone.
Then she thought of the look in Brian’s eyes and it made her 
shiver, too. But what worried her was that she wasn’t certain if it was 
fear for him, or of him.

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

lbuI*, uvv ps p28IsT

---------------------------------------------------

Volume 85, Issue 24The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania29 April 1991
By MARNIBOREK
Tartan Contributing Editor
Cheat sheets and wandering 
eyes are not foreign to the 
Carnegie Mellon student body. 
Cheating is as serious a prob­
lem here as it is at any other 
university. Eliminating cheat­
ing isn’t trivial, but, according 
to Edwin Fenton, University 
professor and co-director of 
Carnegie Mellon’s University 
Teaching Center, the establish­
ment of a student-run honor code
system may move things in the 
right direction—if the program 
can get off the ground.
“This is something the Uni­
versity has been talking about 
for a long time,” says Fenton. 
“While it’s certainly not my origi­
nal idea, this is something I 
would like to see the University 
do. There’s been talk of a code 
for decades.”
Michael Murphy, dean of Stu­
dent Affairs, agrees.
“The honor code system can 
work and be very valuable, but
it must be student-coordinated. 
Our honor code system should 
not be modeled against another 
university’s. It must be devel­
oped within.”
“By not doing something, we’re 
really condoning it,” says 
Fenton. “I don’t believe that 
cheating is any worse here than 
at any other university. But this 
society ignores the problem by 
not stopping it, and a good way 
to stop it is an honor code,” says 
Fenton.
Please see HONOR CODE, page L3
Need for grades pressures cheaters
By RHONDA STRUMINGER
Tartan Contributing Editor
Why do some students occasionally cheat?
Why do some students simply bamboozle 
their way all the way through college?
“Pressure and lack of moral fiber,” according 
to H&SS Dean Stephen Fienberg. Though said 
with a smile on his face, he is serious.
“Cheating is considered normal behavior 
and there isn’t any peer pressure to do other­
wise,” says Lorrie Rabin, director of the Coun­
seling Center and Student Development.
Low self-esteem, lack of confidence in one’s 
ability to do well in school, procrastination, 
and pressure are all on psychotherapist Rabin’s 
list of why a student cheats. She says, “Some­
times cheating can be an oppositional reaction 
to the system — [an opportunity] to get one 
over on the professor.”
One student’s reasons for cheating echoe 
some on Rabin’s list. “I’ve cheated because I
didn’t prepare for a test and because cheating 
is easy; there isn’t anything hard about look­
ing on someone else’s paper or making a cheat 
sheet — especially in large lecture halls 
Fienberg stressed that “cheating is a very 
tricky thing. As an instructor of a big class, 
you don’t want to have to be over students’ 
shoulders.” But, he says, “as long as you give 
out grades, you give an incentive.”
When asked if and why she cheated, one 
student was quick to respond. “What a stupid 
question, almost everyone has cheated. I have 
no moral conscience about cheating. If every­
one does it and you don’t, you fall behind. So, 
you cheat to stay even.”
This student further explains that “stu­
dents cheat because they either studied a lot 
and blanked out during the test or because 
they just didn’t feel like studying so they 
made crib notes. Anything to get the grade.” 
Getting the grade appears to be what most 
Please see TYPE A, page L3
Ten ways to cheat at CMU
E’T crCm u V8.y 81 Ibs sku7 rC u pu,Isnu,5sIo .8,,rnvy rC Ibs .b8I8V8.y 2887 pbs2s rI pu, mg.vrz
VuIsmT 08g ,b8gvm ns unvs I8 1rig2s 8gI Ibs 2s,IT
RT Ugy u 2s,su2Vb .u.s2 1287 uC8Ibs2 ,IgmsCI 82 u V87.uCy IbuI ,svv, Ibs7T
6T £8rC u 12uIs2CrIyo ,8282rIyo 82 8Ibs2 82iuCrquIr8C IbuI bu, 1rvs, 81 8vm u,,riC7sCI, uCm sku7,T
çT Lmm u XE• ns182s ,rCivs mrirI ,V82s, uCm Isvv Ibs lL 82 .281s,,82 IbuI y8g2 sku7 pu, 7r,i2umsmT QI r, 
g,guvvy umdr,unvs I8 m8 Ibr, 8Cvy pbsC y8g buds 7r,,sm uI vsu,I E’ .8rCI,T
~T Ssuds uC uC,ps2 ,.uVs nvuC5 mg2rCi uC sku7T L1Is2 y8g isI rI nuV5o 1rvv rC Ibs V822sVI uC,ps2 uCm 
Isvv Ibs lL 82 .281s,,82 IbuI bs 82 ,bs 8ds2v885sm y8g2 uC,ps2T
-T a8.y u 12rsCm*, b87sp825 .u.s2T ts7s7ns2 C8I I8 V8.y Ibs Cu7sT
OT Q1 2g,bsm 182 Ir7s 8C uC sku7o Isu2 811 Ibs vu,I .uisT DbsC y8g isI C8 V2smrI 182 Ibs :gs,Ir8C,o 
Vvur7 IbuI y8g Csds2 i8I Ibs .uisT
3T PrV5 g. Ip8 nvgs n885,T QC 8Cso p2rIs u vsIIs2 I8 y8g2 78Ibs2 uCm buCm rI rCT lu5s Ibs 8Ibs2 8Cs 
b87so uC,ps2 Ibs sku7 :gs,Ir8C,o uCm 7urv rI I8 y8g2 78Ibs2T DbsC 787 uCm y8g2 .281s,,82 mr,V8ds2 
y8g2 X7r,Iu5so• Ibsy prvv ,prIVb nvgs n885, uCm y8g prvv isI n8Ib uC L uCm n28pCrs .8rCI, 182 p2rIrCi 
b87sT
(T wg..8,s y8g isI nuV5 uC sku7 pbs2s y8g mrm numvy 8C Ibs :gs,Ir8C, uC,ps2sm 8C Ibs 7rmmvs 
.uis, 81 Ibs nvgs n885T wr7.vy 2s78ds Ibs .uis,o 2s.vuVs Ibs7 prIb .uis, V8CIurCrCi nsIIs2 uC,ps2,o 
uCm irds y8g2,sv1 Ibs i2ums y8g2 Csp uC,ps2, ms,sC4sT lbsC isI y8g2 lL 82 .281s,,82 I8 2sfumm y8g2 
,V82sT
ET Pvuiru2rqsT Dby ,b8gvm ,87s 81 Ibs i2suI p2rIrCi 81 bg7uC br,I82y V8vvsVI mg,I rC Ibs vrn2u2y pbsC rI 
VuC su2C y8g u i88m i2ums rC,Isum& .ummarUed by Jonathan Levy from a report by Edwin Fenton
Cheaters pass 
by professors 
with ease
By HOWDY PIERCE
Tartan Contributing Editor 
& MATT ADLER
Tartan Staffwriter
Despite a moderate level of policing 
by faculty members and administra- 
i tors, cheating on classwork is preva­
lent at Carnegie Mellon, and many 
students get away with it:
•A junior GCM student admits to 
handing in a paper he didn’t write for 
a class in his major last year. He says 
he got an A on the paper, which was 
worth “15 or 20 percent” of the final 
class grade.
“It’s done pretty much throughout 
the class,” says the student. “Every­
body does it. People keep their papers 
and basically hand them down.”
The paper was written a year ear­
lier for the same class by another 
student, and has been used again 
'this semester by a sophomore. Each 
of the three students has received the 
same “A” grade.
•Small groups of engineers regu­
larly get together the night before an 
assignment is due and crank up what 
has come to be known as “Team 
Xerox,” according to a senior CIT stu­
dent.
All the members of Team Xerox 
collaborate on a single problem until 
one of them finds a solution, accord­
ing to the student. Each collaborator 
then works through the problem in­
dependently to avoid giveaway calcu­
lator errors.
“I don’t think what they do is all 
that bad,” says the student, who 
doesn’t regularly participate in the 
group but has attended some of the 
sessions. Although collaboration is 
prohibited by department policy, the 
student says it helps many of his 
classmates to learn the material.
• Last year, a student in World His­
tory cheated on essay tests in Doherty 
Hall 2210 by bringing in answers he 
had already written. He says profes­
sor Peter Stearns handed out twenty 
possible essay questions to help the 
class study for the test — and that 
helped him and his friends cheat.
“It was so blatant,” says the. stu­
dent, now a junior. “There were seven 
of us sitting in a row. Everyone had 
their answers.”
According to the student, he and 
his six friends all put their cheat 
Please see CHEATERS, page L3
Fenton proposes honor 
code to aid problems

---------------------------------------------------

12The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 29 April 1991
“Ultimately it’s uo to me....”CMU student finds self in struggle with cancer
By DANIEL HOLLAND
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
Two years ago John Hill was a busy, 
energetic freshman at Washington Uni­
versity in St. Louis. He juggled tough 
pre-med classes, ran with the track team; 
he was a peer counselor, making friends 
and helping others. But on Tuesday, 
February 20,1990, something happened 
that would change his life forever: John 
was diagnosed with a rare form of pedi­
atric cancer that affects people aged 14- 
25.
“Initially, I was scared,” said John. “It 
was unbelievable but it hadn’t sunk in 
yet.”
In August 1989, before the start of his 
sophomore year, John had been experi­
encing pain in his lower right leg. By 
December, he was on crutches and in a 
lot of pain. Then in February 1990, at the 
Roswell Park Memorial Institute in Buf­
falo, doctors diagnosed his affliction: 
Ewing’s Sarcoma, a type of cancer that is 
only diagnosed 200 times a year. John 
opted to try a new, aggressive chemo­
therapy protocol which would alternate 
chemicals between each five-day treat­
ment. He returned to Pittsburgh in Feb­
ruary, 1990, to take physics classes at 
CMU, but his top priority was getting 
well.
During the early part of his experi­
ence, John made tremendous headway. 
He experienced some initial sickness from 
the first treatment and a five-day spurt 
of mononucleosis, but could walk again 
after two weeks. Later, a chest X-ray 
showed ten nodules in his lungs, each 
nodule one centimeter in diameter.
After the fourth treatment, John vom­
ited for 24 hours, feeling very sick and 
weak. He slept for 13 hours and awoke to 
write an inspiring poem on the bottom of 
a tissue box. The poem was later pub­
lished in a hospital newsletter and he 
became pen pals with a woman, also a 
cancer patient, who empathized with 
him. Despite losing all his body hair and 
feeling run-down, John continued to keep
his spirits high.
In that four-month period, John devel­
oped a very positive and uplifting phi­
losophy on life. “I always tried to figure 
out what caused it,” he said, “but I can’t 
beat my head against a wall. There are 
so many causes. I just have to go forward 
with things and do the best with what I 
have got. ‘Why me?’ doesn’t help. I have 
got to figure out what I can do to get over 
this.” But the hard part, he said, was just 
beginning.
In May of last year, John was faced 
with the most difficult decision of his life, 
one which would test his stamina, en­
durance, and will to fight. He had to 
decide whether to receive radiation treat­
ment on his bone or have his leg ampu­
tated below the knee. After much re­
search, he and his mother decided on 
radiation.
His struggle through chemotherapy 
and tough decisions has changed his 
attitude toward life dramatically. “I am 
now almost fearless. I have almost com­
plete control over fear and have become 
tougher physically and mentally. I just 
go forward and make the best with what 
I’ve got.”
Certainly, the adjustment has been 
difficult at times, but John looks to close 
friends and his mother for support. “My 
mother is tremendously helpful to me. 
She is a true source of strength for me 
because she coordinates everything for 
me medically, and she’s somebody to 
talk to about my decisions.”
For the most part, John turns to him­
self to manage his ordeal. “Ultimately it 
comes down to me. My mother never 
makes any decisions for me. You yourself 
have to take charge. It’s very important 
for you to get in the driver’s seat and say 
‘I’m gonna beat this thing.’ The doctors 
are going to help me, but it’s up to me to 
get better.”
One of the hardest parts of coping with 
cancer to John is his loss of freedom and 
the separation from good friends in St. 
Louis.
“I’m thankful that I have good friends
“Initially, I was scared 
... but, I’ve learned 
more about life in this 
last year and a half 
than I have the first 
20 years of my life. 
I’ve found out who I
am.
—John Hill, 
student
here, and I have my mother and family 
here. But when you go to college, it’s a 
time in your life to get out on your own 
and make friends, and I had fallen in 
love for the first time; I met someone I 
cared a lot about and I had to leave,” said 
John.
John is disappointed that he is not 
able to participate in physical activities, 
like running. “I used to love to run. Sports 
was a big part of my life.” John swims or 
lifts weights in between treatments, but 
it is not a consistent regimen of exercise.
John attributes much of his ability to 
cope with cancer to his calm, patient 
temperament. “I’m able to weigh things 
objectively. I think that is very impor­
tant. It’s important not to panic when 
you have bad things happen. This is the 
way it is, and you do the best with what 
you have.” His openness with people is a 
great way for him to manage his own 
emotions and to let his feelings out when 
he gets down. “I do get depressed... there 
have been times when I’ve cried myself 
to sleep. But it doesn’t happen regu­
larly.”
Meeting people has not been a major 
obstacle for John, although he admits 
that “it’s very strange being bald at age 
21, but it’s something I’ve tried to make 
the most of.” At first, he enjoyed the
attention of being bald, but 
has since worn bandanas in 
public, and at his psychiatry 
internship last summer, he 
wore a wig. “It was not me, 
but I had fun with that too.
One time I went off to St.
Louis and surprised my 
friends, wearing the wig and
dark sunglasses.”
More than anything, John 
wants people to not be inhib­
ited with their reactions or 
opinions. “I just want people 
to be honest about their feel­
ings. I’m a very open person.
I’m never ashamed of the 
truth.”
The past year and a half 
has tested John’s physical
limits along with his emo-__________________________________
tional endurance. Last sum- Thomas Nichols/Tartan Senior Photographer
mer he had to endure the John Hill, a part-time Carnegie Mellon student has been 
side effects from the radia- afflicted with cancer since early last year.
tion treatments: severe
burns on his leg and groin from the 5800 
rads of radiation to his lower leg. It even 
burned when he swallowed.
This past February, episodic pain in 
his leg forced John to alternate chemo­
therapy treatments every five days. He 
was unable to receive chemicals through 
his arms because the thirteen treatments 
he had previously received weakened 
the vessels. As an alternative, John be­
gan to receive chemicals directly through 
an implant into his chest.
In March, John had a pencil .eraser- 
size nodule removed from his lung with 
laser surgery. He recovered quickly, but 
he was faced with another difficult deci­
sion: a bone marrow transplant or ampu­
tation of his leg. (Although these were 
options, not alternatives, the existence 
of this nodule meant that the chemo­
therapy had not worked.) Both were risky 
operations, but John felt the marrow 
transplant offered a much better chance 
of success.
The operation involves removing some 
marrow and saving it while he endures a
week-long chemotherapy treatment at 
very high doses. John will stay in a 
sterile room as normal marrow is in­
fused to strengthen his immune system, 
which is weakened during the treatment. 
The procedure involves a month-long 
hospital stay and a 10 per-cent chance 
that the treatment will be fatal.
John is awaiting the next step in get- '¦ 
ting the bone marrow transplant sched-; 1 
uled this summer. He is thinking of writ- 1 
ing a book to tell others about his botitw 
with cancer and how they, too, can cope 1 
with a disease. Self-sufficiency is the 
key. “Remember, it is your responsibility ' 
to get better,” he says.
Despite the setbacks, John continues 
to fight, to maintain a positive attitude. ! 
Having cancer has taught John about 
himself. “I’ve learned a tremendous 
amount,” he says. “I’ve learned more' ; 
about life in this last year and a half than '' 
I have the first 20 years of my life. I’ve 
found out who I am. I’ve found out that 
I’m a fighter— and I’m a stubborn son of. 
a bitch.”
Langer receives third Fulbright; leaves in May for Bolivia
By A.J. DURAZZI
Tartan Features Editor
The paneled walls of Erick 
Langer’s office make astriking 
contrast with the history 
professor’s hectic schedule. The 
fact that he speaks six languages
— seven if you count Latin — is 
the first clue that Langer lives a 
diverse life.
The second clue is the juxtapo­
sition of the pictures on the walls 
in his office in Baker Hall: there is 
a prominent parchment, in Span­
ish, given to Langer by his stu­
dents when he taught at the Uni­
versity of Tarija in Bolivia; below 
it are two drawings by his chil­
dren.
Like these pictures on his wall, 
Langer’s life is a balance between 
his family and his research in 
Latin American studies. Next 
month, Langer will leave for the 
country on his third Fulbright 
Scholarship. This time, Langer’s 
Fulbright activities will be slightly 
different from the previous times.
“I’ll be lecturing on social an­
thropology at the National Insti­
tute of Anthropology at Buenos 
Aires,” says Langer. Langer’s 
preparation for the trip is a little 
unusual. “I plan to bring the books 
I will need with me — there re­
ally are few new books in English 
in Argentina — and leave them 
there,” says Langer. “There is an 
economic crisis there right now, 
and that will be a way to help the
“I find Latin 
America exciting 
every time I go 
there.”
—Erick Langer 
Fulbright recipient
Argentinian academic commu­
nity.”
Once in Argentina, Langer will 
actually be lecturing throughout 
Argentina. “As recipients of the 
Fulbright, we are sort of repre­
sentatives of the American aca­
demic community, so we have to 
be visible,” he says.
Since his childhood, Langer has 
had an internationalism uncom­
mon to most. “My parents were 
born in Germany, so we spoke 
German at home,” he says, “and I 
spent five years there as a teen­
ager.” In 1972, Langer was a Ro­
tary Club exchange student: “It 
changed my life,” he says.
“I put down my countries, in 
this order: France, Sweden, and 
Spain,” he says with certain 
memory of the experience. “I made 
it through the first round of inter­
views, and in the second round 
they asked me if I would go to a 
Spanish-speaking country. I said 
yes — you can’t say no, because 
then they’ll think, ‘oh, he’s not
ready for a new experience.’ ” 
Langer was sent to Bolivia on the 
exchange. “I had to look it up on 
the map when I found out! But 
I’ve fallen in love with the coun­
try and its people,” says Langer. 
He liked it so much that he spent 
the last two months of that trip 
traveling throughout South 
America. “It changed my life,” he 
says, “I made it my career.” 
Langer also credits his under­
graduate history teacher at the 
University of Washington in Se­
attle as another influence on his 
career. “He was not a terribly 
good lecturer, but he was enthu­
siastic. So, I thought maybe I could 
do the same,” says Langer. He 
received his undergraduate de­
gree in history in 1*977. By 1979, 
Langer had his master’s degree 
in Latin American History, and 
by 1984 he earned his doctoral 
degree, both from Stanford Uni­
versity. He came to CMU almost 
immediately after receiving his 
doctoral degree.
Langer can still remember his 
first lecture, with a laugh. “My 
first lecture was at Stanford, and 
I was overprepared and ner­
vous....” he says. “And it was a 
terrible lecture.”
Langer is the author and editor 
of several books on Latin Ameri­
can history. “I’m currently co-ed­
iting a book on missions in Latin 
America,” he says. One of his other 
books, Historia de Tarija, is a 
book on the history of the Boliv­
ian state. “I wrote it in Spanish. It 
was my first attempt at doing so,” 
he says, “and it was very diffi­
cult.”
Fulbrights are awarded every 
year in four different ways. One 
form of the scholarship is given to 
students after they complete 
bachelor’s degrees. Another is 
awarded to students as they pre­
pare their doctoral dissertations. 
The other two ways are for aca­
demics that have received doc­
toral degrees; one is research-ori­
ented and the other is for lectur­
ing. Langer received his first 
Fulbright as he prepared his dis­
sertation. Later, he received an­
other in the research track after 
earning his doctorate.
Although Langer has received 
the Fulbright before, this trip is 
certain to prove refreshing. While 
in Argentina, he will be attempt­
ing another first: lecturing at the 
graduate level in Spanish. “I find 
Latin America exciting every time 
I go there. This time I will be 
teaching, in Spanish, to graduate 
students, which I’ve never done 
before. What will be interesting,” 
he adds, “is teaching anthropol­
ogy. It’s an opportunity to think 
carefully about anthropology and 
to prepare for a course I’m teach­
ing next semester, Peasants in 
History.” The course is an 
interdisplinary course between 
history and anthropology.
Although Langer spends a great
deal of his time at home working 
on his research, he describes him­
self as an enthusiastic teacher. “I 
enjoy researching [Latin Ameri­
can History]. What I found also 
was that it was a lot of fun to 
relate my studies with other aca­
demics. The paradigm works for 
me: the more I research I do, the 
more I relate to my teaching; and 
the more teaching I do, the more 
I go back to my research more 
concretely,” says Langer.
“I enjoy contact with the under­
graduate and graduate students,” , 
says Langer. Appropriately, he is 
the advisor for all undergraduate 
history majors. “I have a better 
chance to know people in a differ­
ent way than I normally would.”
Brigham Young University 
Dance Company In Concert
See the talent that has won them the U.S. 
National Formation Dance Championship 
for eight consecutive years.
May 16th, 1991, 7:30 pm 
Soldiers and Sailors Memorial 
Admission: $5
Khabarnama! Khabarnama! Khabarnama!
1991 Fall International Festival on Asia 
Planning continues for the 1991 International Fall 
Festival and many thanks are in order for the won­
derful ideas, suggestions, and offers of help from the 
University and Pittsburgh community.
So far, we have already begun planning for
keynote speakers dancers
mucisians films
poetry readings story telling
gamesfood
merriment
If we haven't heard from you yet, we want to make 
sure your ideas are part of our planning before you 
head off for the summer. If you have any suggestions 
concerning people to involve, activities to run, lec­
tures to present, or artists and musicians to invite, 
please give me a call or drop me a note.
Please contact Aliya Khan, Coordinator of the Inter­
national Festival, at the Student Affairs Office at 
x2075 or @ak3m or @festival+

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 29 April 1991L3
Students prove cheating scores top grades
CHEATERS, from page LI
sheets on the ground in front of them and 
teamed up to hide them with their legs 
whenever a proctor walked by. The stu­
dent says he got a B in the class.
“There does seem to be a cheating 
problem,” says Computer Science pro­
fessor Peter Lee, who says he has caught 
“two to three” students a semester in 
some of his larger programming courses 
like 15-212. “You always get the queasy 
feeling that this is just the tip of the 
iceberg.”
Sometimes, however, the depth of the 
iceberg becomes apparent. “Last semes­
ter they caught two students collaborat­
ing with one another,” says Fritz Kirabe, 
a CS graduate student who was a teach­
ing assistant for 15-212. “The professor 
decided to give the students a chance to 
turn themselves in. After he made an 
announcement, a lot more people turned 
themselves in than were expected.”
Pitched against students who cheat is 
the University’s policy on cheating, which 
leaves a lot of discretion with individual 
faculty members, according to Dean of 
Student Affairs Michael Murphy.
“The policy is that faculty members 
no.tify me of the action they take when 
they catch someone,” says Murphy. “I 
review the case and the decision with 
regard to consistency [between faculty 
members].”
Policy aside, however, not all faculty 
members report cases of cheating to 
Murphy. “I’ve never had it in me to re­
port .someone to the dean,” says one fac- 
ultydnember, who has taught large lec­
ture-courses. “I have failed some stu­
dents and made them do more work, but 
I haven’t reported them.”
“If we went to the dean with a student 
who cheated, the dean forces the student 
to drop the course and it goes on their 
record,” says junior Mike Ginsberg, the 
head grader for 15-212. “This is very bad. 
Those students who are honest enough
to come forward 
are treated 
much less 
harshly than 
those who do 
not. The people 
who turn them­
selves in feel 
they’re given a 
fair deal.”
Murphy is 
aware that he 
does not hear 
about all the 
cheaters who 
are caught, but 
he says that the 
situation is im­
proving: “Increasingly, faculty members 
are contacting us. The history of that 
interaction was not as strong—the Stu­
dent Affairs office was viewed as han­
dling exclusively non-academic issues.”
According to Murphy, his office re­
views “about 40” cases of cheating a 
semester; some five of those cases per 
year involve multiple offenders, who are 
referred to a University Disciplinary 
Committee hearing for further punish­
ment.
“It was just like everything it says in 
the guidebook,” says a former H&SS 
student who went through the process 
last year. The student was caught pla­
giarizing two papers during his fresh­
man year and now attends a prominent 
public university.
The student was first caught during 
the fall semester of 1989, when he and a 
classmate handed in the same paper to a 
philosophy class. Although he received 
an F on the paper, he got a C in the class.
The next semester, the student was 
referred to Student Affairs’ disciplinary 
committee when he was caught handing 
in the same paper as two classmates in 
Philosophic Methods and Morals.
Although the student requested pro­
bation, the committee recommended ex­
pulsion; Murphy reduced the recommen­
dation to “indefinite suspension of no 
less than one year,” according to the 
student, who says he hopes to return to 
Carnegie Mellon in the fall.
“I ended up getting no credit for the 
second semester,” says the student, even 
though his disciplinary hearing was not 
completed until after finals last spring. 
“They were real strict.”
According to Lee, CS professors regu­
larly discuss the issue. “Cheating is some­
thing that we’re all concerned with,” he 
says.
“There’s a strong possibility that it’s a 
big problem. Our greatest fear is that 
students do it and don’t think it’s so bad
— that it’s just like jaywalking.”
Although the student who went 
through the disciplinary procedure says 
“it seemed to work reasonably well,” fac­
ulty members assert that the University’s 
policy does not deter cheaters. As Knabe 
said, “It happens every year without 
fail.”
“My understanding, and I’m not say­
ing this from my own experience, is that 
cheating'is a fairly common practice,” 
says Ned Evans, the head of the graphics
communica­
tions pro­
gram and an 
assistant 
head of the 
Industrial 
Manage­
ment depart­
ment. “I 
think it’s 
something 
that is aw­
fully difficult 
to police and 
very difficult 
to eliminate.” 
Perhaps 
part of the
problem is that cheating has gained a 
level of acceptance at Carnegie Mellon. 
Dave Newman, a sophomore mechanical 
engineer, said, “There’s not an unrea­
sonable amount of cheating here. It’s 
just not the sort of thing you do anything 
about.”
“In my opinion, the procedures taken 
are not adequate,” agrees Russ Walker 
of the Math Department. “Students prob­
ably cheat more than they’re caught.” 
Students agree that there’s not much 
deterrence going on. “There is big pres­
sure,” says sophomore architecture stu­
dent Pete McLaughlin. “People who cheat 
are in a situation where they feel they 
have to.”
But not all students make the same 
excuses. “I wouldn’t say [cheating] is not 
unusual,” says the student who got away 
with handing in the paper written by 
another student. “It’s just ifyou can do it, 
you do it.”
Nevertheless, cheating by their peers 
bothers some students. “Last semester 
my roommate came back from a test very 
upset because a bunch of people were 
sharing answers. At the rear of a big 
lecture there’s a definite problem — no 
one really knows what goes on in the
back,” says Leslie Tam, a sophomore IS 
major.
“Depending on how blatantly someone 
is cheating I might get really upset,” 
agrees freshman H&SS major Pat 
Mooney, “but as far as casual glances go, 
you get the attitude ‘Why bother?’ ”
Still, there is some question as to how 
hard professors should work to prevent ¦ 
cheating in their classes. “I don’t like to • 
admit that the system’s imperfect,” says ; 
Walker, “but I also don’t want to run a 1 
jail. I do not like to assume negative 
things about students.”
“Cheating is something the professors ' 
don’t want to have to think about,” says. 
Knabe, and a few undergraduates agree. - 
“If a professor doesn’t change the topic . 
and is lazy,” says sophomore IM major 
Gleb Klioner, “then students can turn in v 
papers from a previous semester.”
But it’s not all about laziness, caution 
some faculty members. “I find it dis- 
tasteful to have to do things,” says Lee. > 
“This is a university. People come here i 
as adults, and I don’t believe it should be i 
the professors’ responsibility to monitor i 
cheating.”
Klioner thinks professors shouldn’t be •' 
naive. “When you say people are just . 
cheating themselves out of an education,. > 
that implies they wanted to be educated i 
in the first place,” he says. “We’re in an •» 
environment where we feel we’re not 1 
trusted. Some people feel like they should " 
grab any opportunity, or feel that cheat- ' 
ing is expected of them.”
Lee says he tries to appeal to his stu­
dents’ idealism when he addresses the-, 
issue of cheating with them. “I try to just I 
be one academic talking to a bunch of ’>; 
other academics,” he says. “I hope that - 
bringing that respect for students’ ethics - 
into the classroom has a positive effect.” 
Still, ethics only go so far. “It’s sick • 
logic,” says Klioner, “but people cheat in 
one course to devote more time to con- • 
centrate on the course they really want.” *csCI8C .28.8,s, b8C82 V8ms I8 sCm VbsuIrCi .28nvs7,
HONOR CODE, from page LI
The University has a lot of work 
ahead of it before it puts an honor 
code to use.
"The University needs a clear 
understanding of what an honor 
codeinvolves,” says Fenton. “Then 
we should draw up a proposed 
honor code and try to show that it 
makes sense. We should try to do 
that' in a year. We should get a 
group of people prepared to sign a 
pledge and see how^many signa­
tures we-can get. Then we can go 
ahead and get something started. 
This will take a while.”
Fenton has several ideas for 
getting an honor code system into 
effect. These ideas include the 
involvement of the student body.
“•Students should get at least 
half the student body to sign a 
petition to get an honor code,” 
says Fenton. “We should also put 
together five or so teams and send 
them off to different universities 
to see what the honor codes are 
like there. It doesn’t cost a for­
tune — just talk to the students 
and see what they say. Then we 
can create an honor code specifi­
cally for Carnegie Mellon.”
Currently, Carnegie Mellon’s 
only policy on cheating is found in 
the Faculty and Student hand­
books. With the implementation 
of the honor code, Fenton feels 
th^t students would be more in­
formed of university policies on 
cheating and plagiarism and 
would clarify this by signing an 
agreement upon admission to 
Carnegie Mellon.
“This agreement vyould be an 
acknowledgment that the new 
student is aware of and would 
abide by the honor code,’’says 
Fenton. “The effectiveness of the 
honor code would depend on what 
it says. For instance it could say, 
‘I won’t cheat, I won’t help anyone 
with my work, and if I see any 
instance of cheating, I’ll report 
it.”
Fenton’s ideas are useless if the 
honor code program can’t gain 
momentum.
“Honor codes work very well 
where there have been honor 
codes for a number of years. But it 
will be difficult to start one fresh. 
That’s why you need an educa­
tion program to get it started, and 
that’s why it should be a com­
bined movement between the stu­
dents; faculty, and the adminis­
tration,” says Fenton.
Fenton has spoken to several 
faculty and Student Senate com­
mittees about the honor code sys­
tem. In addition, people have 
turned in reports on cheating and 
the honor code, but still nothing 
has happened.
“Most of the committees thought 
that the honor code was a good
idea, but to get something like 
that adopted it has to become 
official university policy. The 
problem is that people only are on 
the committee for a year. People 
cycle off the committee and noth­
ing happens,” says Fenton.
Fenton has recently conveyed 
his ideas to newly elected student 
government president-elect, 
Hyun Shin. Shin wants to work 
with Fenton’s concepts.
“I think Fenton’s ideas are 
good,” says Shin. “I’d like to see a 
program similar to the honor code 
on campus. But the challenge is 
coming up with a program that is 
appropriate for CMU’s environ­
ment.”
Murphy also finds Fenton’s 
ideas encouraging.
“I’d be more than happy to talk 
to students about how an honor 
code can be established. The fac­
ulty will also see good results of 
this,” says Murphy.
Fenton sees the ultimate goal of 
the project to implement an honor 
code the ceasing of cheating.at 
the university.
“If we let cheating go on and we 
do nothing about it, the commu­
nity implies that cheating is ac­
ceptable. This is a wrong message 
to communicate to students,” says 
Fenton. “We should say that 
cheating is not right and we should 
be as honest as we can. That’s
good citizenship training.”
Fenton and others who wish to 
implement an honor code at CMU 
might have a good solution to the 
cheating problem. Students who 
have conveniently adhered cheat 
notes to their “static cling” socks 
during examinations don’t have 
much hope for an “A” in their 
“Getting Away With Cheating” 
class if their university has imple­
mented an honor code. Univer­
sity honor codes are specifically 
designed to prevent cheating and 
encourage students to report any 
incidents of cheating.
For example, Princeton Uni­
versity requires admitted stu­
dents to sign an honor code before 
entering the university. The code, 
established in 1893, informs the 
student that he or she cannot 
cheat while at the institution and 
that he or she should report any 
violation of the code observed.
“The honor code information is 
sent to students by the student- 
run Honor Committee,” says 
Ingrid Eagly, head of the Honor 
Committee at Princeton. “The stu­
dents are given a copy of the honor 
constitution, given the honor code 
pledge form to sign, and are asked 
to write an essay explaining their 
obligation to the code. Those who 
do not understand the code are 
spoken to when they arrive at the 
university. If a student refuses to
sign the honor code form, he or 
she is not allowed to matriculate 
into the university.”
The honor code is enforced once 
again when the students enter 
the Princeton classroom.
“After every class exam, we have 
to write a pledge ‘I pledge my 
honor that I have not violated the 
honor code during this exam’ and 
we sign our name,” says Melissa 
Ganz, a freshman English major. 
“If we do not sign the pledge the 
teacher asks us to sign it. If any 
student is caught cheating, the 
case goes to the Honor Commit­
tee and they hold a trial to deter­
mine whether the accused is guilty 
or not.”
The Honor Committee reviews 
the cases of cheating that take 
place within the classroom. Other 
violations of the honor code — 
such as plagiarism — are taken 
care of by the Discipline Commit­
tee, which is made up of students, 
faculty, and administrators.
There are approximately 
twenty to twenty-five cases of 
cheating that are brought to the 
attention of the Honor Commit­
tee per year. There must be con­
vincing proof in order to pronounce 
the accused guilty. One to four 
students a year are declared guilty 
of cheating as a result. At this 
point the committee recommends 
a proper punishment for the guilty
student to the university.
“The penalty usually involves 
suspension from the university 
from one to three years or a four 
year probation. If there is a sec­
ond offense the result is expul­
sion from the university,” says 
Eagly.
Stanford University has a simi­
lar honor code. The students do 
not sign an honor code form when 
first entering the institution, but 1 
do sign an honor pledge every * 
time a major examination such as 
a midterm or final is adminis­
tered.
Reports of cheating are brought 
to the attention of either the stu­
dent Honor Committee or to a 
head professor. Punishment for ' 
cheating involves immediate fail­
ure in the class that the student 
has cheated in, suspension, or ex­
pulsion — depending on the seri­
ousness of the case.
Some students are pleased with 
the trust between professors and 
students because of the code.
“No professors monitor the 
tests. They must stay outside the 
classroom. We [students] really 
value this,” says sophomore sym­
bolic systems major Greg 
Edwards. “With the honor code 
you can take an exam wherever 
you want, go to the bathroom — 
without anyone looking over your 
shoulder.”
.LPw ’ PwugosUmvhvwg Puosw ho aIwUh
students think cheating is all about. 
However, some recent psychological 
studies prove that certain personality 
types and one’s level of self-awareness 
áre strong determinate factors.
! Type A personalties, usually associ­
ated with people prone to heart at­
tacks, describes people who tend to be 
competitive, ambitious, workaholic, im­
patient, and aggressive. People’s scores 
on a personality questionnaire test 
determine if they have a Type A or a 
Type B personality.
“I think that we have a lot of stu­
dents here who have a high need for 
achievement. The selection process of 
the University — which includes high 
admission standards — weeds out 
people who have a low need for achieve­
ment. So we have [many] people who 
push themselves and who might corre­
late with high need for achievement 
and with Type A personalities,” said
Laurie Weingart, assistant professor of 
Industrial Adminstration.
According to a report in the Psycho­
logical Reports journal from the Univer­
sity of Cincinnati, “the Type A pattern 
has been related significantly to placing 
high importance on grades and achiev­
ing higher grades than Type B scorers in 
college.... In terms of academic success, 
Type A scorers report that they put forth 
greater effort than Type B scorers (e.g., 
devoting more time to studying).
However, in some situations it may be 
that Type A scorers use other means to 
achieve their goals. Given their greater 
concern with success, it is possible that 
Type A's would be more likely to cheat to 
achieve success than Type B‘s.”
Weingart says, “Type As don’t [neces­
sarily] outperform Type Bs ... Type As 
are more concerned with success and 
with pushing themselves and may be 
less tolerant of things that get in their
way.
Another test in the Journal of Social 
Psychology from the University of 
Otaga in New Zealand, reports that 
•people’s awareness of where they rank 
relative to the standard level of compe­
tence would increase or decrease that 
individuals tendency to cheat. “High 
self-awareness ... increased cheating: 
In the face of falling below the achieve­
ment norm of a comparison group, 
highly self-aware subjects were more 
willing than subjects low in self-aware­
ness to violate explicit rules in order to 
compare with the external norm.”
“I think there is a natural inclination 
toward achievement... perhaps, unfor­
tunately, achievement is misread by 
tangible rewards [such as] money and 
grades... and the process by which the 
rewards are gained become less impor­
tant,” said Dean of Student Affairs 
Michael Murphy.
lold a piece of tape up to your eyes, 
dim the lights and try to fill out your 
taxes.
Now you’re seeing things from her 
point of view.
Almost everybody has lo file taxes, bul not 
everyone can do it on their own. Volunteer and 
help make someone’s taxes less taxing. Call 
1800 424-1040.
VQ

---------------------------------------------------

L4The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 29 April 1991
SUMMER INSTRUCTORS ANDCounseling and Student Development CenterTEACHING ASSISTANTS
NEEDED !!!Carnegie Mellon University 
Morewood Gardens - E Tower
for the following courses:Phone 268-2922
Physics IConsultation Academic TutoringCalculus IACOA Support Group Crisis InterventionChemistry IAssessment & Referral Individual Psychotherapy
Biology ISexual Assult Counseling Referrals from Health Service
Economics
When: June 20 - August 3Hours by AppointmentContact: Gloria Hill or Tony Askew @ 268-2150Weekday Walk-in Crisis Hours
C-MAP OfficeAfter hours Emergency Service
Smith Hall, Room 220
Application Deadline: Friday, May 17, 1991Division of Student Affairs
Dart returns to Pittsburgh with a new story
By MICHAEL T. ROSE
Tartan Contributing Editor
I Squirrel Hill’s Jewish Community 
Center hosted one of its own this week­
end as author and CMU alumna (CFA 
’66) Iris Rainer Dart spoke to a group of 
fans, friends, and old neighbors on Sat­
urday. Dart is touring the country in 
support of her novel I’ll Be There, sequel 
to the bestselling Beaches, and she was 
happy to return to her birthplace.
After a book-signing session, Dart 
spoke for half an hour on her connection 
to Squirrel Hill’s Jewish community, her 
new novel, and the challenge of raising 
children in Hollywood. Since I’ll Be There 
follows Cee Cee Bloom, the character 
played by Bette Midler in the film, as she 
adopts her best friend’s daughter, the 
issue of children in Hollywood is what 
ties Dart’s experience to the book’s plot.
A mother of two, Dart’s pride in her 
offspring is evident. Her son Gregory, a 
student at the University of Virginia, is 
an aspiring pilot; she says that her ad­
vice that he stay out of show business 
has been partially heeded, “because he 
says, ‘Mom, you didn’t want me to be in 
a pilot, so now I am a pilot.’ ”
Family ties to Pittsburgh and the city’s 
Jewish community are very strong for 
Dart. Her father, Harry “Doc” Ratner, 
was a social worker at the JCC’s prede­
cessor' the stylized menorah outside the 
Forbes Avenue JCC facility was donated 
by Dart and family members in his 
memory.
The former Iris Ratner says she was 
the most terrified person in Pittsburgh 
on the first day of classes in 1962. “I saw 
all these people (in the Drama Depart­
ment) with fancy clothes.... Some of [my 
classmates] had famous parents, and all 
I could think of was ‘I’m not supposed to 
be here — this has to be a mistake.’ ”
Dart came to Tech in ’62 after years of
"There was some kind of message in that.... 
For the price of a used typewriter I [got] my 
own parking place at Universal. ”
— Iris Rainer Dart
performing as a child actor, working in 
venues from the Pittsburgh Playhouse 
to Jewish community organizations. 
Even then, she had reservations about a 
career as a performer. She says, “I spent 
all my childhood working on TV, on the 
stage, or on the radio in Pittsburgh — 
and I never liked it.” However, she does 
have good memories from her years at 
CMU.
She recalls one professor in particular, 
Edith Skinner, who taught speech and 
diction in the Drama Department for 
many years. Skinner, says Dart, was 
notorious for sitting in the back row of 
the theater during productions and tak­
ing note of every mispronounced word.
Once, Dart and a friend dashed into 
CFA on a frigid winter day. Running into 
the bathroom, her friend exclaimed “Oh, 
my eah-rs!” The bathroom stall door, 
according to Dart, “shot open as though 
it was a drug bust.” There stood Skinner, 
who intoned, “No, my dear. Your ears.” 
Skinner made her exit, leaving the as­
tonished students to the conclusion that 
no place was safe from the Speech Police.
Dart began her involvement with writ­
ing in the spring of her sophomore year, 
when she brought an idea for a show to 
Scotch ‘N’ Soda. She wrote the show over 
the summer, and when she returned to 
school she asked S ‘N’ S if they had a 
composer she could work with on the 
show. She got a phone call one day from 
a young man. “Hello,” he said, “I’m a 
freshman directing major, and I went to 
Julliard-.” “Who wants to work with a
freshman?” thought Dart. He went on: 
“My name is Steven Schwartz.” 
Schwartz and Dart collaborated on that 
show and again the following year — 
both shows won national competitions 
their respective years. When Dart gradu­
ated Schwartz went on to compose 
Godspell and Pippin in the two years 
following. As Dart relates it, “I worked 
with him for two years, then I left and his 
career took off like a shot. I felt like the 
person who invented 6-Up.”
Dart chose writing over acting for a 
number of reasons. First, writing offered 
a kind of security that acting couldn’t. 
When S ‘N’ S rehearsed Dart’s first show, 
Dart watched from the back as an ac­
tress said her lines and told her jokes. 
Dart discovered that she liked being able 
to disconnect herself from the presenta­
tion. The tension, the immediate feed­
back, was gone. “There’s something to be 
said for this hiding in the back part!” 
says Dart.
As an actress, Dart worked in Califor­
nia for a time before turning to writing as 
a career. She worked, as she put it, as a 
“gag writer” for sitcoms and the Sonny & 
Cher Show from 1968-78. She found 
that as a writer, she had better and more 
opportunities than as an actress. Once, 
as an actress, she went to Universal 
Studios to audition for a part, and found 
that “I had to drive all the way down to 
the back parking lot, and walk all the 
way back, and it was 99 degrees in the 
Valley.... I finally got to the stage where 
I found fifty other short dark girls all
waiting to audition for 
the part of the Indian.”
As a writer, however, she 
came to Universal for a 
meeting a few years later, 
and they said, “ ‘Oh, yes,
Ms. Rainer, we have a 
spot for you right by Mr.
Erskine’s office.’ I 
thought that there was 
some kind of message in 
that.... For the price of a 
used typewriter I [got] 
my own parking place at 
Universal.”
Will Dart ever write 
about Carnegie Tech?
The answer is ... maybe.
Although Pittsburgh is 
usually a prominent city 
in her novels, she has no 
current plans for a piece 
dealing directly with 
CMU. When informed 
that the Morewood Gar­
dens dormitory now 
houses both sexes (in the 
early ’60s it was all fe­
male), however, Dart said that More- 
wood was commonly known as “The 
Cherry Orchard” while she was here. In 
fact, during the production of Beaches 
she wrote a short play, The Girls of the 
Cherry Orchard, concerning the adven­
tures of three residents of Morewood 
who are rehearsing Chekhov’s play and 
losing their virginity — presumably not 
simultaneously.
Dart is singularly discouraging to 
young people who come to her for advice 
on breaking into show business; her own 
experiences as a writer for television and 
as an actress were not rewarding. The 
diminutive, dark-haired author says that 
she warned the daughters of a friend of 
the dangers of Hollywood by saying, 
“When I began in this business I was tall
courtesy Hanson & Schwam 
Iris Rainer Dart
and blond.” Her advice to the young 
actors and writers of tomorrow can be 
summed up succinctly—“Stay out of the 
business.”
On a more serious note, Dart says that 
the essential parts of a career in enter­
tainment are focus, ambition, and en­
thusiasm. She warns the journeyman, 
“There are no miracles, only discipline.” 
Planning on heading off to Hollywood 
after graduation? Words of caution from 
somebody who did just that: “I know 
many talented people who don’t work, 
and many not-so-talented people who 
work all .the time, because they’re just 
hungry. They have to have it.”
Iris Rainer Dart's new novel, I’ll Be 
There, is available at the Squirrel Hill 
Bookstore and other booksellers.
lsuVbrCi Lpu2m,
Professor of Psychology Margaret 
Clark accepts a crystal apple for 
winning this year’s Ryan Teaching 
Award. The award recognizes 
“unusual devotion and effectiveness 
in undergraduate teaching," as 
stated In its official description. 
Clark shares the award with 
Professor John Schaeffer.
Instead of Introductory speeches, 
the award ceremony featured videos 
of the winners.
i nomas rncnois/1 arcan senior rnoiograpner
Professor John Schaeffer, assistant professor of mathematics, Is 
one of the recipients of this year's William H. and Frances S. Ryan 
Teaching Award.
¦ iiumaa munuib/ iciucm oemui ri iuiugi dpi ici
Professor Emeritus Lawrence Carra is the recipient of the 1991 Robert S. Doherty Prize which 
recognizes contributions to educational programs.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 29 April 1991L5
Farewell epiphanies strike senior writing major
JaviVision
by Javier Grillo-Marxuach
; In writing my final column, I cannot 
help but be reminded of The Wizard of 
Oz. In one of the last scenes, Dorothy 
says the immortal line, “And I’ll miss you 
most of all, Scarecrow.” Touching, sure, 
but not the most polite thing to say in 
front of the Tin Woodsman and the Cow­
ardly Lion. True, the Scarecrow did have 
to face the unsavory prospect of being 
dismembered in his course of duty as 
faithful sidekick, but let’s be honest: the 
Cowardly Lion had to look deep into his 
own heart of darkness, and the Tin 
Woodsman had to rust for the ungrateful 
brat.
• Because I am unwilling to commit the 
same faux pas, I will not bore you with a 
lengthy list of the people I will miss after 
I have left Carnegie Mellon University. I 
will say that one of the things which 
frightens me most about the prospect of 
saying goodbye to this institution is the
act of saying goodbye itself. Farewells 
seldom pack the emotional wallop we 
wish they did. To many, this is due to the 
simple fact that the theme from Gone 
With The Wind does not spontaneously 
bellow out of the heavens with every 
final embrace.
To others, goodbyes don’t work simply 
because it has been statistically proven 
that the amount of time it will take 
before you see the person to whom you 
have said your goodbyes is inversely de­
pendent upon the intensity of the emo­
tional wallop of the goodbye. Anybody 
who has ever had that Gone With The 
Wind farewell with a loved one only to 
have to return minutes later to pick up a 
bag or to go to the restroom probably 
knows exactly what I am talking about.
This is not to say that my departure 
from Carnegie Mellon University will 
not be fraught with emotional discharge. 
However, I believe that the idea of the 
grand epiphany is overrated in our soci­
ety. For some reason, someone has sold 
us on the idea that, at certain pre-deter- 
mined times, everybody has to have that 
explosive moment of recognition in which 
they gain a not inconsiderable amount of 
knowledge of self (it is my theory that 
this is the result of an excessive depen­
dence upon the male orgasm as a model
Don’t get me wrong, I 
am sure that grand 
epiphanies are as 
much a part of life as 
the male orgasm; 
however; they seldom 
arrive in the manner in 
which two thousand 
years of narrative tra­
dition would have us
of social interaction). Now, don’t get me 
wrong, I am sure that grand epiphanies 
are as much a part of life as the male 
orgasm; however, they seldom arrive in 
the manner in which two thousand years 
of narrative tradition would have us be­
lieve.
One week ago, as I walked the Spring 
Carnival Midway, pondering the fact that 
the entire universe is cooling and won­
dering how that was going to affect my
plans for the summer, I came upon the 
Pioneers’ Dr. Seuss-themed booth. As I 
strolled past the booth I noticed the green 
eggs and ham on a platter and I stood 
before them, stricken. Staring at that 
platter of styro-molded representative 
sculpture, I realized something I had 
never known before — the ham is also 
green.
I know, it sounds obvious to you, but I 
never read Green Eggs and Ham (I grew 
up in Puerto Rico, I’m sure none of you 
have readPlateroy Yo. So there.) and my 
knowledge of the title led me to under­
stand that only the eggs were green. 
Who would have thought of “eggs and 
ham” as a single unit of signification? I 
didn’t. Who would have thought that my 
understanding of Dr. Seuss has been 
marred by my having thought all these 
years that the pause came between the 
words “eggs” and “and ham” rather than 
between “green” and “eggs?”
It was a minor revelation, but it did 
take over ten years of American pop- 
culture consciousness for me to get there. 
When you consider that the college expe­
rience is meant to be a preparation for 
the rest of your future, the fact that all of 
the important revelations should not 
arrive in a brilliant flash at the moment 
of farewell, if they are at all to be found
within the course of one explosive burst 
of self-awareness, becomes apparent.
In the past I have found that all of my 
cathartic moments of emotion and real­
ization, nice though they have been, are 
inevitably complicated by the fact that 
they do not represent the end of my 
experience. The seeming finality of mo­
ments of being such as impassioned 
goodbyes and revelations is a deception 
designed to make us believe that the 
hard work of getting to know one another 
and the rest of the world has come to an 
end.
But there is no end.
Creative writing/LCS major Javier 
Grillo-Marxuach would like to say thank 
you to all of those who stuck with this 
column from the time he was plain young 
and confused, through the time he be­
came a young confused cynic, a young 
confused Marxist, a young confused fa­
natic of Duran Duran, a young confused 
existentialist, a young confused viewer of 
late-night television, a young confused 
Taoist, a young confused capitalist, a 
born-again young confused cynic, and 
finally just plain young, something he 
hopes to remain whatever the second word 
may turn out to be. And he’s been great to 
work with. Thanks, Javi.
Heads up! The spring Dudes are out to hack
Spring has sprung; warm 
^weather, longer days, mosquitoes 
¦in preparation for gluttonous 
feasts on the prime lunch meat 
which is the human calf. But I’m 
not worried about mosquitoes. 
What I’m worried about are the 
swarms of pests reaching near­
emergency proportions right here 
on this campus.
We’ve all seen them strut out 
from their nests as of late, to shed 
their winter coats and pull those 
boxers way below their shorts in 
ritualistic proclamation of spring­
time vitality. It’s one of the true 
-phenomena of nature. Out of the 
first hints of warmth arise the 
very coolest of pest species. Spring 
has sprung indeed, and onto the 
grass and mud pits of the Cut, the 
Dudes have emerged. No, Dude, 
I’m serious.
I saw my first Dude while in 
biology class in the ninth grade. 
After fishing a particularly moist 
kitten out of a glass of formalde­
hyde, I stuck my head out the 
window in a last-ditch effort to 
keep down the Ring Dings I had 
swapped for a sandwich on the 
cut-throat trading floor of the caf­
eteria, and that’s when I heard 
one.
“Dude, let’s hack over here, 
Dude.”
' “No, Dude, let’s take off our 
^ lacks and hack over in this most 
' grassy area.”
There they were in front of me, 
not one Dude, but a whole pack of 
Dudes standing in that patented 
circular formation. I wanted to 
show my teacher, Mr. Olchevski, 
but it all happened too fast.
One Dude took a little beanbag 
out of a pouch and they all started 
some form of Dude recreation by 
prancing around and keeping the 
, bag of beans in flight with their 
11 Dude feet. Mr. Olchevski later 
taught me that this little bag of 
beans the Dudes were kicking 
- wasn’t just any little bag of beans,
• but that Dudes refuse to use any­
thing less than an official footbag 
when taking part in this Dude 
folly. The part that amazed me
WHATVER HAPPENED TO 
PLATINUM BLONDES?
by Andrew Cosentino
was when this one Dude, in an 
expression of his dominance 
among the pack, threw back his 
shoulders and kept the bag of 
beans in flight with his chest alone 
— not at all unlike a peacock 
jockeying for position to flamboy­
antly spread his plumage.
But upon arriving on a college 
campus, Dudes go through the 
natural process of Dude segrega­
tion. It’s not uncommon for a 
Dude, in his first few college days, 
to want to distinguish himself 
among Dudes, and why not?
Dudes who were “psyched, 
Dude” to hang together in the 
high school setting become much 
more selective in picking their 
chums of higher education. “Dude 
man, noooo, Dude. I don’t want to 
hang with these Dudes, I want to 
hang with those Dudes over there. 
Much better t-shirts Dude, I’m
serious.
And so, Dudes locate themselves 
through the evolution of distin­
guishing symbols on their outer 
layers, symbols which are some­
times difficult to understand. Oh 
well, it’s all Greek to me. But this 
is where the problems start.
For one thing, most packs of 
Dudes have their own secret lan­
guage. I mean it can be, so, so, 
dangerous, Dude. Like this one 
time when I was walking along 
the cut, and these two Dudes were 
throwing a disc (note: in case 
you’re on the outside, when Dudes 
get to college, they often trade in 
their official foot beanbags for 
frisbees — oops ... I mean discs, 
sorry, Dude). So these two Dudes 
throw their disc a little too hard 
and the disc is racing right for the 
neck of this old man shuffling 
along about a mile away.
Now, this is where that prob­
lematic Dude discourse comes into 
play. Seeing that the old man is 
completely unaware of the fact 
that a hefty chunk of plastic is 
leading a hasty path to his skull, 
the two barefoot Dudes give each 
other a wide-eyed Duuuuuude! 
look, and then warn the old man 
with that great regard for the 
economy of words, by simulta­
neously yelling, “Heads!”
Now, Dude, even if the old man 
had heard the extensive warning 
soon enough to hit the ground, he 
still would have yelled back some­
thing like “tails,” and he still 
would have gotten bludgeoned on 
the side of his head with the plas­
tic projectile.
But Dudes have a difficult time 
learning from these experiences 
because they pride themselves on 
their short memories. In fact, on 
the days after especially festive 
evenings, Dudes gather in 
bunches to see just how short their 
memories can be.
“Dude, no way. I don’t even re­
member doing that. Noooooo, 
Dude, I must have been so, so, 
drunk. I said that? No way, Dude.” 
“Dude, trust me Dude, you did, 
cause I was right there when it 
was going on. Oh, but don’t get me 
wrong Dude, I barely remember 
it myself, it’s all a blur Dude. Let’s 
go throw a disc.”
Dude chatter can be more chaf­
ing than the chirp of a thousand 
summer insects, but researchers 
have come up with some effective 
methods for avoiding Dudes when 
in their pack mentality.
The first is to always wear socks. 
Dudes are extremely fond of let-
ting their feet breathe, and when 
not completely barefoot, constrict 
their feet as little as possible by 
wearing flip-flops, or, in the lan­
guage of a proper New Englander, 
thongs. Dudes cringe even at the 
sight of a sock-wearing creature. 
Hence, the common tube-sock 
serves as a more than adequate 
Dude repellent.
The second piece of advice is to 
stay away from all movie the­
aters showing either Tango & 
Cash, Fast Times At Ridgemont 
High, and/or Bill and Ted’s Excel­
lent Adventure. Dudes have been 
known to view each of these films 
seven to eight times in one year.
Finally, there is a time of year 
when Dudes get serious. During
mating season, thongs and discs 
are temporarily put away, and 
Dudes and Dudettes don their 
best apparel to take part in “the 
formal”: Prom Night II, the se­
quel. At these highly unique 
formals, Dudes and Dudettes 
sweat profusely as they consume 
spirits in dark and densely popu­
lated areas. I know you’re think­
ing that this behavior is a lot like 
the behavior of Dudes on most 
other party nights. But you’ve got 
to remember that this night is 
different. It’s special. It’s formal. 
C’monDude, they’re wearing bow 
ties — and socks.
Andrew Cosentino is an H&SS 
Dude, dude.Happy summering!
Çcmejdn us... we are Ute United (i)cuj
United Way
Four Star Pizza 
Welcomes You Back 
With This Fantastic Offer!
f\ cUuxw WIwwgw evzzU
O3.E -z4 .-ee3zt FG44!
-smL
ADDITIONAL
TOPPINGS
-’a suVb
Fast FREE Delivery
683-0400
Offer Valid 
To Deliveries Made 
To University 
Students Only.
F-•G S.’G 
e3ZZ’
Clip a
lNM lLtlLA
Carnegie Mellon’s student newspaper since 1906.
1991-92 Subscription Form
Name:__
Address: 
City:___State:Zip:.
First class subscriptions are $36 a semester, $70 a year, and are delivered in 3-7 days.
Third class subscriptions are $22 a semester, $35 a year, and are delivered in 7-14 days.
? Fall Semester ? Spring Semester ? Full year
? Payment enclosed ? Bill me
Return to: The Tartan, Attn: Subscriptions, Box 17, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
JOBS
Academic Services is now accepting applications from work-study students to work this 
summer or next fall. There are various job opportunities, suitable for students with differing 
interests and all levels of experience, in these Academic Services division departments:
Academic Computing, HBH 3001
Computer Store, UCC A-50
Computing Systems, UCC 125
Hunt Institute for Botanical Documentation, HL 5th
Instructional Technology, HL Lower Level
Networking & Communications, UCC 131
University Libraries, Hunt Library
Information packets, with brief job descriptions and an Academic Services employment 
application, are available at the Computer Store or at the Hunt Library circulation desk.
You may also go directly to any of the departments listed to get additional, more 
specific job information.
i

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
Ti
Outland vg U 1wwfmL HwUhiuw vs hIw evhhgliuxI eogh tUzwhhwT
'AtTEUTÌOU.' Ml R\SE K THIS MEETING 0F G.ROSS 
IS M3M CAU.ED TO ORDER BH TUE GREW GIOIOSE 
DICTATOR- FOR.- UFE, TUE RULER SUPREME,
TUE FEARLESS.. TUE BRA'JE. THE WELT» W&.IN-ESTEEM, 
CALVIN TUE BOLD.' XES, STAND UP MAD UK\L 
WS UUWBlEKESS eX K MM WS WISDOM PREVAIL.'
Carn egiiMn ler lornC CoBir gfm id Irinomic 
teMMinR Cpi mipnpC el gf DsStsSncpCo cv 
-in ng-ncv -i tgn g IremABAepn oTcR
AMD IDTS OF PNAACUE, AS ALL USERS DO/
\N WS FANCS CWAPEAA), HES A IEAIER W\TU TASTE K 
MM WS OROECS BE WEEDED MAD H\5 VEWS BE 
___. EMBRACED/
¦foO CAM TELL TWS IS 
A GREAT CLUB B\ THE 
WAS WE START 
OUR MEETINGS'
THIS MEETING OF THE GET R.\D 
Of Slinw GIRLS CLUB IS NOW 
IN SESSION/ FIRST TIGER 
HOBBES Will PRESENT OUR 
fc, . /v FINANCIAL PV ^TORr- S
NA\T, WE DIDNT 1 WE S\NG WAT 
S\NG THE AT THE TAI 
GÄ0.S.S ANWEM. OF THE 
- MEETING.
I WWT TO 
SINS 'T ÖIÖ
*CWV. WE 
«WE TO RUDW 
VROKR PtoTDCDL! 
SEE? ITSASS 
ON WE AGENDA 
7 THAT WESlNG
eMWBH <?RoHQSS u
UMwl aSJU QN lNM axw9uwTT
-¡¡¡ll'V'
nd JywKHisr/
k,AA
llcXìjPìririprTiinnf.
NC lll 1 IME MiWEM
"iovj GET TWO WEIL YÌX/ GET 
DEMENTS FCß. afRt DEMENTS 
SINGING THE FOR WT TAKING
CLUB ANTHEM OFF SOUR WAT 
BEFORE \T D0R\NG 'TS
WAS ON THE HALLOWED REFRAIN ;
il ^ «T
UM <0U'BE JUST 
k FIGuREttEM).' •toOR WlES Wi E 
CEKiWIHL.' X ; 
«Mt WlTUtteti ‘ SESwmme;'
1'tA WCTMoe-TO- 
UfE? I HME TCN 77/WS 
WE WPORTMCE of k loWd first tees; k mmt> 
TIMES / k HILLIOH TIMES '
2p9\7W,
to Smee
D ­!QaM
kFPq
IT W\LL TOO K )C.AD? WUATS 
MX CLUB \S uAJu SUPPOSED 
CALLED / TO STAND 
‘C.A.Ü ' J FOR
\F XOJR CLUBS CALLED 
'CALVIN'S A DOFE," THEM I'M 
CHANGING TUE NAME OF 7Afs 
CLUB TO ‘ UOBBES IS A MANGX 
FLEA-R\DDEM FURBALLV
AH \NSULT7 I \ GO AHEAD/ 
DECLARE ETERNALI FROM NOW OK 
WAR OM SOUR v WE'RE B\TT£R 
CLUB.' X ENEMIES/
I'M GO\NG TO 
WRITE MHSELF 
A MESSAGE IN 
CODE R'GWT zGK 
IT SAHS.'CALNlN 
SMELLS lwe a 
BABCOU.'
OH SENH p WELL SEE ABOUT 
THAT ' WHAT p ONLS IN 
VOJR DREAMS, FUZZ FACE.'
SVVC£S/ SUVA/ 
\TS SV)S\E/
HJHAT ARB THE P0CICR5 UEP5 YOU POING COOL, MAN. THEY HEFE! I SAI PI COULP GOTHOUGHT HOMd-Wm YOU’PBE MY" to CaebEou um!BY NOW!
n£c?5‘5>3U
,o82c(D<b>
Q.Q)>
<
C?Q)
C
CD
-$
TJ
i3c/5-Na
TJ —i
CD
CD
o
Q_ 
S2 CD 
D 
-Q Ct) £ 
Q_
W
CDD
CDQ)M—>
CDT3
CDW
>>¦3XI(0pcoo
Ü
TH£ UNIT PIP GOOD RAY. YOU'P HAV5 BB6HPROUD. Wd-KJUBP TAHK5 WBR A MIL3/WPA HAlfAWAY, AT NIGHT- TANKS THAT NEVER. SAU) US! AFTER. ALiTHEBUILP-UP.IT m> A MAJOR HIGH!

---------------------------------------------------

GWOP
Carnegie Melton's favorite abstract minimalistic existentialist cartoon
SAL A &aemI evefri&sPi j
WARV&lI

---------------------------------------------------

¦i frft 'JWfzhS WUtt?-Spelli Wtejfy/jfc ey Mrt/l'^o/bjp/ly. '
¡¡vfjfi/fnd /y£ee/!> c/hwi. /crt/14 fAi/dk, : 'P i/sifflfiA IjoltJ
/ /itJrfit S/to /& ihrur^L a 96/c Mtg .
'm/Mmlui «JctteS 0fjandyfiipeJ 
IKuA awfy /MMMquj -h Hy __
if art fhpj ¿./fj /'fl l/MSf-f</¦••• * y'
-ubG bsy 
GET 3W'
"X'^E l
Gof I 
, v°R VoU
Tl/|\1E l/'J Lfi-TEf^ TOp'éUTé
Six girls, a mad scientist, and a squirrelfox.
...What more could you ask forSo £,CiG*-(^ed v\lti£ ho ThaT 
he cursed V-»\S yav^y
o^SiSTRnT onto) f>ur <x 
Corse on W* e.A+i^ r<^e
TK€ A^vìéloTuCcS af
uveo ^ d0<ie 
-vei)i^5 <«1 Si°t7-
The lo 5? 0( ^ 
Sword rff F°^ c, <^T
LeT rnt Ov 
-you dCooli^ 
Old Coo"1'/ /
/\5 ex. CeSiMT, w^i 
kfoice out ò^'tweef' 
TV GrolloPS “nJ ^
¡^oste>s liunws. Tlie 
cà.SSÌ5t^ot f!td -to 
-*1s+y u7 rm wI «T y
Colon-/ of 31'o.nT /
TVisfsiXS-
ç L*C2H Vr rm £Mf
w2W4m*y r422Irv « cpg8£ 
/jefe- CtHC EaL c^fSe- 
CoviJ tie
Dlfs8 x2d\ Du2 ,fp..smf
„555? / by Findibj TV piwli 
_-XanJ JiSTtoyin* iT"- \ |\ I wK'^K i'S wkf y°4 
/ I Joe., r*w5r emt«^ °°
WUcxf a. 
(^Oro^
TW
<xS5lSl^nT 
rno5T ViM* ba&t\-
Why I Hate Jellybeans
Ta87rCi CskI ,s7s,Is2

---------------------------------------------------

HEY ARTISTS n CARTOONISTS!
lbs sCm 81 Ibs ysu2 r, |g,I u28gCm Ibs V82Cs2o ,8 
.vsu,s PQaG JP y8g2 u2Ip825 1287 Ibs PrV5fJ. 
e2ups2 u, ,88C u, y8g VuCT auvr £8bC SrC uI 
k ( E E E r1 y8g buds uCy :gs,Ir8C,T lbuC5, 182 
e2uprCi 182 Ibs lLtlLAT
i
Ui-\ 
«lj&>a8e Sj aNQaG
crosT HAK)6q OUT.
' 3W3j " 1111, 'l*w'5'tfoj TW bWl

---------------------------------------------------

7 DAYS ONLY: MAY 2 - 8
I
Need more computing power? Trade in your old system and peripherals at the 
Apple Trade-Up, May 2-8. Most brands and models accepted. Add some dollars 
of your own. And get an advanced new Apple Macintosh' system. With more 
speed. Color. Expandability. And all the power you need to stay ahead.
Pick up your Information Packet today at the CMU Computer Store. Call 
the CMU Computer Store at 268-2636 or e-mail psOO@andrew, for your current 
system’s trade-in value.
VISIT THE CMU COMPUTER STORE. OR CALL 268-2636 OR E-MAIL PS00@ANDREW, FOR DETAILS.
Hie power to be your best1
The Apple Tracie Upis lirràied to elrgilile siuclems. lamlly and siali « Apple, lire Appli; big» imi .........insilimi nriiisiunril liailimnks ni Appi» CnmpiiTn. Ini- 'Un' pmvw minivi»« $50 is.i tiailumaik ni Appli' Luminila im

---------------------------------------------------

5324GS3-zS
Uvu,I 811 prIb 
,g77s2 78drs,
lbr, ysu2*, ,g77s2 1vrV5, .287r,s umdsCIg2s uCm V87smy
By STEPHEN GLICKER
"Tartan Diversions Editor
Summer — a time for long, hot days 
and cool nights, a time for relaxing and 
goofing off, and a time for great movies. 
And this year’s forecast of summer mov­
ies appears bright and sunny. Of course, 
anything has to be better than last year, 
one of the most disastrous summers in 
¡movie history.
Remember Days of Thunder — the 
movie most experts predicted was going 
¦to be the runaway blockbuster of the 
summer, and wasn’t? Remember Ghost
— the movie every expert completely 
ignored, and broke records left and right?
Hopefully this summer won’t be filled 
with many Days of Thunder, but after 
taking a look at this summer’s films, I 
wouldn’t worry. So while you’re relaxing 
in the sun, you might want to take a 
break and relax in 1^he dark with one of 
the following summer flicks....
He was a rich man’s son who lost ev­
erything but his honor to the thieving 
Sheriff of Nottingham. When he killed 
one of the Sheriffs men, he became an 
outlaw. The man, you ask? Robin Hood, 
of course.
This time double Oscar-winner Kevin 
Costner plays the immortal swashbuck­
ling hero inRobin Hood: Prince of Thieves. 
In this retelling of the legendary tale, 
Robin is joined by his friend Azeem (Mor­
gan Freeman), who owes Robin a debt for 
saving his life and joins his battle to save 
the people of England from the evil Sher­
iff of Nottingham (Alan Rickman of Die 
Hard fame).
Unlike past tellings of Robin Hood, 
which deal mostly with the characters 
and not with the adventure aspect, this 
version promises to do a lot of both. 
According to production designer John 
(Flash Gordon) Graysmark, Robin Hood
is more like “Indiana Jones, but in Saxon 
garb.”
Another major difference between this 
telling and past ones has to do with the 
Sheriff of Nottingham. According to 
screenwriter John Watson, the Sheriff 
“is evil personified. With King Richard 
absent, England has reverted to pagan­
ism and human sacrifice. The Good/ 
Christianity vs. Evil/Darkside is even 
more potent in Prince of Thieves”
In addition to Costner, Freeman, and 
Rickman, Christian Slater stars as Will 
Scarlet, and Mary Elizabeth Mas- 
trantonio stars as Maid Marian. Look for 
Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves in late 
May.
Next to Robin Hood, Terminator 2: 
Judgment Day is probably the most anx- 
iously-awaited movie this summer. Very 
little is known about this film right now, 
except that it just achieved a brand new 
record for being the most expensive 
American film ever made. The price tag? 
Over $82 million dollars, and still grow­
ing-
What on earth, you ask, could make a 
film cost that much money? Well, add up 
Arnold Schwarzenegger’s fee ($14 mil­
lion, including a jet plane), James 
Cameron’s writing, directing, and pro­
ducing fee ($6 million), Linda Hamilton’s 
fee ($1 million), the cost of buying the 
sequel rights from both Hemdale studios 
($5 million) and Cameron’s former pro­
ducer and ex-wife Gale Ann Hurd ($5 
million), and tack on another $30 million 
for ground-breaking computer anima­
tion effects from George Lucas’ Indus­
trial Light & Magic (four times the num­
ber employed by Cameron’s The Abyss) 
and you have a grand total of $61 million.
And that’s not even including the cost 
of shooting the actual picture itself, which 
involved closing down 2.5 miles of the 
Long Beach Freeway for two weeks of
night-shooting in which an Arnold Ter­
minator cyborg (Schwarzenegger) 
punches through the windshield of a 
huge tanker-truck, which flips over, and 
a helicopter explodes into the back of a 
SWAT van. How much could something 
as simple as that cost? One, two million 
max?
As for the storyline, it goes something 
like this: An Arnold Terminator cyborg 
(Schwarzenegger) is sent back this time 
to protect Sarah Connor (Hamilton) and 
her twelve-year-old son, John (somehow 
the rebels of the future managed to get 
their hands on an Arnold Terminator 
cyborg and reprogram it to protect rather 
than kill).
Meanwhile, the Machines have sent 
back their state-of-the-art Key 1000 (Rob­
ert Patrick) to track down and kill John 
and Sarah, a cyborg armed with fantas­
tic powers, such as the ability to control 
its own morphology- on a cellular, mo­
lecular or even atomic level. Thus, it is 
able to turn into anyone, or anything, it 
wants.
With so much time, effort, and money 
being put into Terminator 2, it promises 
to be at least a good movie, if not a great/ 
classic movie. Look for it in on Memorial 
Day weekend.
Of all the comedy films coming out this 
summer, Mom and Dad Save the World 
stands out as a potential hit. In it, Jon 
Lovitz {Saturday Night Live) stars as the 
vain and insecure ruler Tod Spengo, who 
rules the planet Spengo (he named it 
after himself) and has plans to destroy 
the Earth, which has never bothered to 
respond to Spengo’s numerous radio 
transmissions.
Poised to push the fatal button, Spengo 
takes one last look at the planet through 
his long-range video scanner and freezes 
on Marge (Teri Garr) and Dick Nelson 
(Jeffery Jones from Beetlejuice and Ferris
Bueller’s Day Off) in the back yard of 
their San Fernando Valley home. After 
viewing Marge, Spengo falls instantly in 
love and zaps Marge and Dick across the 
galaxies. Soon Spengo prepares to take 
Marge for his bride, and to unceremoni­
ously dispose of Dick, along with the rest 
of Earth. Can Marge and Dick save Earth 
before Spengo blows it away? Take a 
wild guess.
Even though the title gives away the 
ending, Mom and Dad Save the World 
should be a great film, if not for the 
comedy then for the scenery—the archi­
tecture on planet Spengo looks like it 
was designed by a drunk Dr. Seuss. Look 
for Mom and Dad Save the World in 
June.
Another summer comedy which looks 
promising is Michael J. Fox’s latest film, 
Doc Hollywood. In Doc Hollywood Fox 
stars as Benjamin Stone, MD. He’s a 
young doctor on the fast track en route to 
Beverly Hills and, hopefully, a glamor­
ous career as a cosmetic surgeon. But 
when his car breaks down in South Caro­
lina, Fox becomes stranded in the quaint 
town of Grady, which just happens to be 
in dire need of a doctor for its local clinic.
While Fox’s car is being repaired, a 
distinctive and colorful group of people 
try — in ways both direct and devious — 
to induce him to stay in Grady. But Fox 
can’t be swayed, that is until he meets 
Lou (Julie Warner). Look for Doc Holly­
wood to grace the silver screen later this 
summer.
Finally, filling the comic book genre 
this summer is the film The Rocketeer. 
First conceived in 1981 as a backup tale 
for the comic book Starslayer, the 12- 
page adventure struck a chord with read­
ers and results in three more adventures 
that appeared in Pacific Comics Pre­
sents. Later in 1984 Rocketeer was re­
leased as a trade paperback, and people
started talking about making Rocketeer 
into a movie.
After six years, two scripts, six re­
writes, and two directors, The Rocketeer 
has finally gotten off the ground and will 
be out this summer. Like the comic, the 
movie begins in 1930s Los Angeles where 
Cliff Secord (William Campbell), a cocky 
young aviator, has an uneventful flight 
interrupted by machine-gun fire whiz­
zing past his head. Campbell crash lands 
his plane into a car parked on the run­
way, and discovers a mysterious pack­
age containing a rocket pack. Campbell 
also quickly discovers that a number of 
other people are interested in the device 
and will stop at nothing to take posses­
sion of the amazing equipment. From 
then on, the movie becomes a roller­
coaster of adventure. Look for The Rock­
eteer in late June.
Other summer releases which should 
be worth watching are Don’t Tell Mom 
the Babysitter’s Dead starring Christina 
Applegate; City Slickers with Billy Crys­
tal and Bruno Kirby; Return to the Blue 
Lagoon with Milla Jovoich and Brian 
Kiause;DoubleImpact with Jean Claude 
Van Damme; Ron Howard’s Backdraft 
with Kurt Russell, William Baldwin, and 
Robert De Niro; Spike Lee’s Jungle Fever 
with Wesley Snipes, Annabella Sciorra, 
and Sam Jackson; Mobsters with Chris­
tian Slater, Patrick Dempsey, Costas 
Mandylor, and Richard Grieco; Pure Luck 
with Martin Short and Danny Glover; 
Child’s Play 3 with Alex Vincent; Bill 
and Ted’s Excellent Adventure II with 
Keanu Reeves, Alex Winter, and George 
Carlin; The Naked Gun Two-and-a-Half: 
The Smell of Fear with Leslie Nielson 
and Priscilla Presley; Terry Gilliam’s 
The Fisher King with Robin Williams 
and Jeff Bridges; and (hopefully) High­
lander II with Christopher Lambert and 
Sean Connery.
©1991 Warner
Robin Hood (Kevin Coster) stars as the immortal swashbuckling hero in Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves
Dick Nelson (Jeffery Jones) and Marge (Teri Garr) find themselves zapped from Earth and onto a tiny planet 
ruled by the maniacal Tod Spengo (Jon Lovitz) in the summer comedy Mom and Dad Save the World.
©1991 Warner Bros. Inc 
Benjamin Stone (Michael J. Fox) plows into a fence 
in the summer comedy Doc Hollywood.
Phil Caruso/©1991 Universal City Studios, Inc. 
Kurt Russell and William Baldwin star in Ron Howard’s 
latest film, Backdraft.

---------------------------------------------------

L12The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 29 April 1991
Journey Through Genius .2s,sCI, 
7uIbs7uIrV, prIb bg782 uCm 1gC
By ALLAN HE YD ON
w Special to The Tartan
, i Mathematical truths possess a 
beauty quite unlike any other 
< work of man, and the ability to 
appreciate that beauty should not 
be limited to expert mathemati­
cians. In the preface to his new 
! book, Journey Through Genius,
. William Dunham notes that there 
are books on the great works of 
art, literature, and music, but that 
discussions of the mathematical
- “classics” are scarce. His excel­
lent, thoroughly enjoyable, and 
articulate book fills that void. 
Most importantly, the book is 
written for the layperson, requir­
ing only a familiarity with geom­
etry and algebra.
A simple elucidation of the 
greatest mathematical discover­
ies would be interestingin its own 
right, but this book goes far be­
yond that. It also presents fasci­
nating glimpses into the lives of 
the mathematicians themselves 
and the cultures in which they 
worked. For example, we discover 
.that academic positions during
- the Renaissance were not guar­
anteed by tenure, but were rather 
bolstered by successes in public, 
intellectual “duels.” As a result, 
mathematicians kept their dis­
coveries secret, sometimes reveal­
ing them only on their deathbeds.
We also learn of the ongoing 
! sibling rivalry between the math­
ematical brothers Jakob and 
Johann Bernoulli. And we feel 
sympathy for Georg Cantor, 
whose counter-intuitive results 
were widely criticized, driving him 
to several bouts with mental ill­
ness. What emerges overall is an 
! engrossing patchwork presenta­
tion of the history of mathematics
— Book Review —
? ??? £!JtAM0 lNt!J/N /Mz
AQJwT Uy Drvvru7 egCbu7T
and of humanity in general.
The book i s divided into 12 chap­
ters, each describing and proving 
a “great” theorem. These theo­
rems have been chosen to repre­
sent discoveries spanning both 
time (with the notable exception 
of the first through 16th centu­
ries) and a diverse range of math­
ematical disciplines. Each chap­
ter sets the historical scene for a 
great theorem to be proven, and 
gives short biographies of the 
mathematicians contributing to 
its discovery. Moreover, each 
chapter presents (and proves) 
many other results, and each con­
cludes with an enlightening epi­
logue section. These epilogues 
usually discuss later develop­
ments regardingthe theorem, and 
often relate the result to other 
theorems in the book.
The journey begins in the 4th 
century B.C. with the ancient 
Greeks. They pondered the prob­
lem of quadrature, that is, the use 
of only a straight-edge and com­
pass to construct a square having 
an area equal to that of some 
given figure. The ultimate goal of 
the Greeks was to “square” the 
circle. Dunham shows us how to 
easily “square” figures such as. 
rectangles, triangles, and arbi­
trary polygons composed entirely 
of straight line segments.
He concludes with Hippocrates’ 
theorem that a figure composed 
of curved lines — namely, the 
lune — can be squared. This gave 
the Greeks a false hope that the 
circle could be squared also; later
mathematicians showed that the 
task is impossible.
A full two chapters are devoted 
to Euclid and his famous work, 
The Elements. The first chapter 
focuses on Euclid’s contributions 
to geometry, culminating in his 
proof of the Pythagorean Theo­
rem and its converse. The empha­
sis here is on Euclid’s method, 
and the epilogue delves into a 
discussion of non-Euclidean ge­
ometry.
The second chapter on Euclid 
describes his lesser-known results 
in number theory, that branch of 
mathematics dealing with prop­
erties of whole numbers. Euclid 
used an ingenious argument to 
show that there are an infinite 
number of prime numbers, those 
numbers divisible only by one and 
themselves.
We are next introduced to the 
brilliant mathematician and en­
gineer Archimedes, who is prob­
ably best known for discovering 
the law of buoyancy. Although he 
was the mind behind the practi­
cal inventions forming the “one- 
man army” that long kept the 
Romans from conquering Syra­
cuse, Archimedes was happiest 
doing abstract mathematics.
His “great theorem” concerns 
the value pi, defined to be the 
ratio of a circle’s circumference to 
its diameter, and his discovery 
that it also plays a role in the 
formula for a circle’s area. 
Archimedes also gave the first 
means of computing pi to arbi­
trary precision. The book revisits 
this topic in its discussion of New­
ton’s invention of the calculus.
The middle ages brought a 
blight to mathematics and to hu­
man innovation in general. The 
journey continues at the dawn of
the Renaissance with the tale of 
Gerolamo Cardano, a flamboyant 
and idiosyncratic Italian math­
ematician. This is perhaps the 
most enjoyable story in the book, 
filled as it is with intrigue, se­
crecy, tragedy, and brilliant inge­
nuity.
Later chapters deal with results 
in algebra, number theory, and 
set theory, including the rather 
surprising discovery by the Ber­
noulli brothers that the infinite 
sum 1/2+1/3+1/4+... diverges. 
Another chapter highlights re­
sults from number theory by Euler 
and Carl Freidrich Gauss. The 
book concludes with two astound­
ing results by Georg Cantor, dem­
onstrating the infinite hierarchy 
of orders of infinity.
The presentation of material 
throughout the book is consis­
tently clear. Not only is the book 
well-organized and well-written, 
but it also contains scores of illu­
minating figures. Some of these 
figures are even taken directly 
from the original publications. To 
preserve the historical objective 
of the presentation, Dunham has 
stayed as close as possible to the 
original notation and proofs. His 
effort pays off handsomely: The 
historic flavor of the descriptions 
goes a long way toward conveying 
the intuition contributing to each 
discovery.
Overall, Journey Through Ge­
nius is an excellent survey of truly 
great and beautiful discoveries in 
mathematics. The theorems 
Dunham discusses are indeed 
“great”: they are all ground-break- 
ing and surprising, without hav­
ing complicated proofs. Moreover, 
the book’s fascinating presenta­
tion of historical nuances shows 
the human side of the story, and it
JOURNEYTHROUGHGENU u-M xtM5c d-MhnMz0 
—hm X5d-Mz5dG“0
ff GccG5z SE”-5z
©1990 John Wiley & Sons
helps us to appreciate the true 
genius of the mathematicians in­
volved. One cannot help but feel a 
sense of awe for both the math­
ematicians and the discoveries 
themselves. I highly recommend 
this immensely rewarding book.
What the stars mean
? Masterpiece
? ??? Excellent 
??? Good 
? * Fair
? Poor
Community 
Outreach Tax 
Assistanceoffers seminars and group return preparation for businesses, farms, and individuals. IRS offices will give you more -}0_information.
r1 lJULr
A PUBLIC SERVICE MESSAGE FROM 
THE INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE
Assm u .vuVs 182 y8g2 ,Ig11 Ibr, ,g77s2& 
Dby vgi rI b87sTTTDbsC y8g VuC ,I82s rIY
We're Pittsburgh's GREAT New Self Storage Center
THE LOCKUP
7535 Penn Ave. at N, Braddock 
241-1 100
(Call Scott for details)*
• Close to campus • Student special
• Clean, secure storage rooms • As low as $6.50 per month*
• Share space with your friends (limit 4 persons per locker)
21 month 
free rentTHE LOCKUP
L
FREE
m
SUMMER BREAK SPECIAL
Prepay 3 months, get 4th month free.
New rentals only. Security deposit required. 
Not good with any other offer.
Exp. date 6/30/91
1 month 
free renti
FREEJ

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 29 April 1991L13
auIVb g. 8C y8g2 Isvsdr,r8C 1ud82rIs, Ibr, ,g77s2
It’s been a busy semester for 
most of us, and finals are breath­
ing down our necks, but take 
heart. In just a matter of weeks, 
exams will be over, and glorious 
summer will be here.
Summer—a time to relax, have 
fun, and enjoy life: a time to watch 
TV.
That’s right, watch TV. Believe 
it or not, there’s stuff worth watch­
ing, most of which you’ve prob­
ably missed due to the beloved 
pressure-cooker we call CMU. And 
this summer would be a perfect 
time to catch up on all the good 
TV you didn’t catch the first time 
around.
Below is a list of series (some 
new, some not-so-new) that might 
be worth catching a few times 
over vacation, wherever you may 
be. (By the way, I’m not including 
shows that have a loyal following 
during the school year, like The 
Simpsons, Tiny Toon Adventures, 
and L.A. Law.)
Murphy Brown (Monday at 9 
pm, CBS), Designing Women 
(Monday at 9:30 pm, CBS), and 
Northern Exposure (Monday at 
10 pm, CBS). What a great lineup! 
Murphy is one the funniest shows
LAUGH TRACK
by A. Franklin Wheeler
on TV, and has the best ensemble 
since WKRP in Cincinatti. De­
signing Women is an acquired 
taste, but its biting humor, once 
you get used to it, is hard to resist. 
And I have mentioned the won­
ders of Northern Exposure previ­
ously in this column.
Roseanne (Tuesday at 9 pm, 
ABC). I have not seen this show in 
about a year, and I miss it. The 
Conners might not be the 
Huxtables, or the Bundys, but 
they are one of the most realistic 
families on TV. Good warm- 
weather viewing.
The Wonder Years (Wednes­
day at 8 pm, ABC). Kevin’s gone 
through quite a bit this year: 
troubles with Winnie, a new girl 
who has a crush on him, a tough 
adjustment to high school, and
the wonders of puberty. Worth 
catching the second time around.
Prime Time Pets (Wednesday 
at 8:30 pm, CBS). Don’t worry, 
I’m only kidding.
Night Court (Wednesday at 9 
pm, NBC). Yep, it’s still on, and 
it’s coming back next fall. Rumor 
has it that Harry and Christine 
might tie the knot, and that Chris­
tine will have a baby (albeit not 
Harry’s). Am I the only one who’s 
confused? Viewing the reruns this 
summer might be very educa­
tional for all you former Night 
Court fans who drifted off.
My Life and Times (Wednes­
day at 9:30 pm, ABC). This new 
drama focuses on an 85-year-old 
man reminiscing about his life. 
The catch: The year is 2035, and 
he’s reminiscing about the late 
20th century. The first episode, 
about the 1989 San Francisco 
earthquake, was well-done, with 
a good balance of drama and hu­
mor. Plus the novelty of looking 
at the present as if it were the 
past from the future is incredibly 
mind-blowing, if you think about 
it long enough. Catch it while you 
can: I’m not sure that such an off- 
the-wall series will have broad
audience appeal.
Seinfeld (Thursday at 9:30 pm, 
NBC). Garry Shandlinglives! Sort 
of. This is a fantastic mix of sitcom 
and standup. Mr. Seinfeld lays 
out his personal problems so that 
the whole world can laugh at him.
Dinosaurs (Friday at 8:30 pm, 
ABC). Okay, I admit that I haven’t 
seen this show yet, but it looks too 
promising to ignore. From Jim 
Henson’s Muppet Factory, this 
sitcom looks at the lives of a blue- 
collar dinosaur family, as they 
deal with both everyday problems 
and the prospect of extinction. 
Sounds like a combination of The 
Flintstones, The Simpsons, and 
an Earth Day special. Seriously, 
if the writing’s inventive enough, 
this show will be good. Just think 
of all the dinosaur-human paral­
lels that could be drawn. Wow, 
what a concept!
Perfect Strangers (Friday at 
9:30 pm, ABC). I’ve always liked 
this show, but I’ve never watched 
it on a regular basis. Word has it 
that Larry is engaged, but other 
than that, nothing much has 
changed: It’s still Larry and Balki, 
sitcom misunderstandings, and 
terrific slapstick.
Life Goes On (Sunday at 7 pm, 
ABC). So what if it’s a fairly pre­
dictable and somewhat cheesy 
family drama? It’s well done, and 
every once in a while the writers 
throw a little surprise in. Besides, 
it just makes you feel good inside.
Parker Lewis Can't Lose 
(Sunday at 7:30 pm, Fox). I know 
it’s on against Life Goes On, so I’ll 
leave the choice up to you. It’s 
crazy, it’s wacky, it’s light, it’s 
fun. The perfect show for sum­
mer.
DeGrassi High (various times, 
PBS; check local listings). This 
Canadian-produced drama isn’t 
shown in Pittsburgh, but it’s on in 
just about every other city in the 
United States, so if you find it in 
your local listings, tune it in. This 
is a realistic look at high school, 
with realistic kids (no Silver 
Spoons types). Well worth a half- 
hour per week.
Twin Peaks (Monday, June 10, 
at 9 pm, ABC). The last two epi­
sodes of the season are being pack­
aged as a two-hour movie set for 
broadcast in June. Most likely, it 
will be the Series finale as well. Of 
course, Cooper and the Peaks gang 
will leave a lot open-ended, in
hopes that they will return.: No 
word yet on a cliffhanger-resolv- 
ing episode.
Which brings us to the end of 
the Laugh Track — at least for 
this semester. After the onslaught 
of papers and finals, do yourself a 
favor: Turn on the boob tube, sit 
back, and soak in some rays. Your 
brain will thank you.
Tartan senior staffwriter A. 
Franklin Wheeler is a professional 
writing major and can’t wait for 
summer so that he can watch all 
his favorite shows, again.
Where 
therdsaneed, 
thereisaway.
United Way
It brin^ out the best 
in all of us.
i82u7r] JeeN l!
DosnULr.IiugnULM ’Puvm 29rDUL 2Mj99j
• Monday, April 29 Concurrent presentations of Honors Theses
O_3’f-_E- .7 Jack Silbert ^a2suIrds D2rIrCi\o XS885rCi 182 Ibs AskI Us,I lbrCi_ L a8vvsVIr8C 81 Ng7828g, M,,uy,< ^Uu5s2 Nuvv (3-L\
-_E-f~_’’ .7 Nancy Gleason ^a2suIrds D2rIrCi\o •Pb8I8i2u.b, 81 l8gVb• ^u V8vvsVIr8C 81 .8sI2y\ ^Uu5s2 Nuvv (3-L\
• Tuesday, April 30 Concurrent presentations of Honors Theses
O_3’f-_E- .7 Paul Hachten ^Nr,I82y uCm P,yVb8v8iy\o Xc287 DrV5sm Pbrv8,8.bs2 I8 982uvr,I P8sI_ PrII,ng2ib*, P2s,nyIs2ruC 9sCIuvrIy uCm Ibs tr,s 81 Pvsu,g2sfwss5rCio E6(çfE66-• ^Uu5s2 Nuvv (3-U\
Jeffrey Muller ^SrIs2u2y uCm agvIg2uv wIgmrs,\o XtsfIbrC5rCi Ibs Uvgs,_ L S885 uI L12rVuCfL7s2rVuC agvIg2uv P28mgVIr8C• ^Uu5s2 Nuvv (O~L\
Gen Numaguchi ^P,yVb8v8iy\o XeuIs tu.s P2sdsCIr8C P28i2u7_ tuIr8Cuvs uCm es,riC• ^Uu5s2 Nuvv (3-L\
Steven Walters ^P,yVb8v8iy\o XL a8CCsVIr8Cr,I L..28uVb I8 Ibs a8iCrIrds uCm Asg28.by,r8v8irVuv 
9sVbuCr,7, 81 e2su7rCi• ^Uu5s2 Nuvv 3--\
-_E-f~_’’ .7 Dennis Frey ^Nr,I82y\o XS885rCi 182 QguCIrIy uCm QguvrIy_ P8.gvuIr8Cr,I P8vrVy rC MribIssCIbfasCIg2y P2g,,ru• ^Uu5s2 Nuvv (3-U\
Javier Grillo-Marxuach ^a2suIrds D2rIrCi4SrIs2u2y x agvIg2uv wIgmrs,\o Xlp8 wV2ssC.vuy,_ The Biographer uCm A Man of Action” ^Uu5s2 Nuvv (3-L\
Jonathan Hurshman ^Nr,I82y4c2sCVb4/s27uC\o X9yIb 7u5rCi uCm !VVg.uIr8C_ ts,r,IuCVs uCm a8vvun82uIr8C rC P8,IfDu2 c2sCVb crv7• ^Uu5s2 Nuvv (3E L\
Joey Lynn Monaco ^P281s,,r8Cuv D2rIrCi\o $UgV5 9gvvriuC x Ibs l2umrIr8C 81 Ibs a8g2I £s,Is2 rC £u7s, £8yVsW, Ulysses" ^Uu5s2 Nuvv (3EU\
• Wednesday, May 1 Concurrent presentations of Honors Theses
O_3’f-_E- .7 Katherine Rashid ^Nr,I82y\o Xlbs ab8vs2u M.rms7rV 81 E63( rC Q2svuCm_ L wIuIr,IrVuv LCuvy,r, 81 Nr,I82rVuv euIu< ^Uu5s2 Nuvv (3E L\
Jonathan Swartz ^a8iCrIrds wVrsCVs\o XS8Cifls279s782y 182 u /2umguvvyfLvIs2sm ­r,guv Q7uis• ^Uu5s2 Nuvv (3çU\
Ash Vasudeva ^L..vrsm Nr,I82y\o XNsuvIb 9urCIsCuCVs !2iuCrquIr8C, ^N9!*,\ uCm PgnvrV P8vrVy• ^Uu5s2 Nuvv 3--\
-_E-f~_’’ .7 Donna Grear ^a2suIrds D2rIrCi4SrIs2u2y x agvIg2uv wIgmrs,\o XL .8sI2y V8vvsVIr8C rCIsi2uIrCi Vbrvmb88m 7s782rs, uCm .2s,sCIfmuy 1urIb• ^Uu5s2 Nuvv (3E L\
Peter Papagianakis ^MV8C87rV,4QCmg,I2ruv 9uCuis7sCI\o XLC LCuvy,r, 81 Ibs MV8C87rV M11sVI, 81 Ibs a8778C 9u25sI4ERR( 8C Ibs JCrIsm wIuIs, uCm Ibs Mg28.suC a877gCrIy• ^Uu5s2 Nuvv (3çU\
• Thursday, May 2 Concurrent presentations of Honors Theses
O_3’f-_E- .7 Aaron Benjamin ^P,yVb8v8iy4/s27uC\o XMdrmsCVs 182 uC MrmsIrV wI82uis 9sVbuCr,7 rC !ds2I ws7uCIrV P28Vs,,rCi• ^Uu5s2 Nuvv (3-U\
Jennifer Walter ^SrIs2u2y x agvIg2uv wIgmrs,\o Xlbs cUQ*, QCds,IriuIr8C 81 Ibs L,,u,,rCuIr8C 81 £8bC cT GsCCsmy• ^Uu5s2 Nuvv (3-L\
Matthew Ruben ^P281s,,r8Cuv D2rIrCi4SrIs2u2y uCm agvIg2uv wIgmrs,\o XQmsCIrIyo er,V8g2,so P8vrIrV,_ SuCi,I8C Ngibs,< ^Uu5s2 Nuvv (3çU\
Cheryl Shapiro ^P,yVb8v8iy\o XtsvuIr8C,br. ly.s,_ DbsC m8 Vbrvm2sC nsirC I8 7u5s Ibs mr,IrCVIr8C&• ^Uu5s2 Nuvv (O~L\
5:30 .7 Closing ceremony, prIb 2s7u25, ny Javier Grillo-Marxuach ^wsCr82o a2suIrds D2rIrCi uCm SrIs2u2y uCm agvIg2uv wIgmrs,\o Lmu7,8C DrCi
6:00 .7 tsVs.Ir8C ^Lmu7,8C DrCio g..s2 vsdsv\
Sponsored by the H&SS Dean's Office, and the H&SS Senior Honors program

---------------------------------------------------

L14The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 29 April 1991
£8s U8n sku7rCs, us28nrV, u, uC !vy7.rV ,.82I
They’re trying to make aerobics 
into an Olympic sport—long over­
due, isn’t it? — and people are 
getting so nutzoid over this that 
they’re forming aerobic teams, 
hiring aerobics choreographers, 
nutritionists, personal trainers, 
and, of course, leotard handlers.
The way it works is you have 
your aerobic competitor standing 
up in front of a panel of judges 
wearing her ankle-warmers, po­
nytail, and one of those Spandex 
pastel pink bodysuits that makes 
her chest look like two Jello molds, 
and then they give aerobics in­
struction to these imaginary 
aerobics students.
‘‘Everybody on tiptoe now! 
Stretch and two and three and 
four, and pull and two and three 
and four, and right arm and two 
and three and four, and another 
right arm and six and seven and 
eight, now grab those ankles with 
both hands and stick your head 
between your knees and two and 
three and four and raise one foot 
up off the ground and squeal like 
a wombat and two and three and 
four and squat on your neighbor 
and six and seven and eight and 
squat on your neighbor with the 
right buttock only and two and 
three and four now left buttock 
and six and seven and eight now 
both buttocks and two and three 
and four doesn’t that feel good and 
sijx and seven and eight....”
JAnd this goes on forever while 
the judges are scoring the aerobics 
expert on “skill” (60 percent) and 
“presentation” (40 percent).
(“I gave her a nine-point-four on 
skill. I especially liked the way 
she did the scissor extension cross-
JOEBOB GOES TO 
THE DRIVE IN
by Joe Bob Briggs
over with her left leg while hold­
ing her stomach like a matador. 
But she got a nine-point-rame on 
presentation. She never stopped 
grinning. When she said ‘Come 
on, you can do it,’ I really felt 
something. I really felt she wanted 
those imaginary students to 
achieve something. Her musical 
selections were impressive as well. 
I’ve never heard ‘Why Don’t We 
Do It In the Road?’ used for a post­
pregnancy workout. So a perfect 
ten for originality.”
Actually, if they’re gonna do 
this right, I think the competitors 
should be forced to perform in 
front of a room full of pot-bellied, 
cellulite-encrusted slugs who just 
enrolled in the class because some­
body sold ’em a membership over 
the phone. Now that’s adding some 
reality to the process.
You know how there’s always 
one totally uncoordinated guy 
who, no matter how many times 
he’s done the exercises, is always 
one step behind the routine, but 
he never knows he’s one step be­
hind the routine, so you start 
watching this guy, hoping he’ll 
catch up, or either get SO slow 
that he catches up by mistake —
are you following this? — but 
pretty sooneverybody is watching 
him and so everybody starts mess­
ing up?
They should put one of these 
guys right in front of the competi­
tor, with a cigarette hanging out 
of his mouth, dirty sweatshirt, 
hightop tennis shoes from 1967
— and, of course, he wears black 
socks with his tennis shoes, Ber­
muda shorts with ducks and palm 
trees on ’em, or a Mexican shirt, 
one of those kind with all the 
pockets that fat people wear so 
they’ll look skinny only they just 
look fatter — put one of these 
guys in the front row and then see 
how it works when they’re grinnin’ 
and singin’ “Work those deltoids 
and two and three and four you’re 
looking good! and six and seven 
and eight and what’s that big stain 
on your shirt? and two and three 
and four and that’s disgusting! 
and six and seven and eight and 
work those fat folds! and two and 
three....”
Wouldn’t this be more realistic?
Speaking of girls in loincloths, 
it’s finally here, the movie we’ve 
all been waiting for — A 
Nymphoid Barbarian in Dinosaur 
Hell. And it is, as the ads say, 
“Where the Prehistoric Meets the 
Pre-pubescent.”
Linda Corwin, who looks so 
young she’d get carded at Chuck 
E. Cheese, is the last woman alive 
on earth after nuclear war has 
wiped out all the cities and most 
of her wardrobe. All our pets and 
livestock have been mutated into 
giant rubber lizards, and she’s 
finding it really hard to get a 
boyfriend.
Unfortunately, everyone is so 
screwed up by the radiation that 
the dinosaurs think they’re hu­
mans, and the humans think 
they’re dinosaurs, and all of them 
wanna father children by poor 
little rags-and-tatters bikini- 
loinclothed Linda. We’re talking 
perky here. We’re talking nubile. 
And when you’re dealing with 
green bald-headed Lizard Men, 
the courtship period is very short, 
if you know what I mean, and I 
think you do.
What I’m trying to say is that 
for 90 solid minutes this woman 
is clawed at, manhandled, groped, 
chased, pinned, clubbed, roughed 
up, beaten, and her hair gets re­
ally ratty, before a dimwit hunter 
named Mam can fight his way 
past giant sea serpents to a castle 
where she’s being held captive by 
a gap-toothed skull-head medi­
cine man with a broken nose. He 
wants to feed her to a giant mu­
tant pit bulldog, but Marn just 
might arrive in time to feed him 
to a giant crawdaddy lurking in 
the dirty brown moat.
In other words, a feminist flick.
Two breasts. (When there’s only 
one woman on earth, you can’t 
score very high.) Eighteen dead 
bodies. Pet-dog eating. Giantman- 
eating serpent. Ax fight. Sword 
fight. Dagger-through-the-lizard- 
gizzards. Close-up ear-chomping. 
Hand-eating. Goat-head sphinx. 
Iguana-head mutant eaten by a 
dinosaur. Mutant octopus attack. 
Arm rolls. Hand rolls. Most terri­
fying of all, Lizard Drool. Gratu­
itous “Jabberwocky.” Kung Fu. 
Bimbo Fu. Prehistoric bikini Fu. 
Drive-In Academy Award nomi­
courtesy Joe Bob
Linda Corwin, star of A Nymphoid Barbarian in Dinosaur Hell, proves why 
this is the movie where the prehistoric meets the pre-pubescent.
nations for Linda Corwin, as Lea, 
for saying “Sometimes my juices 
start to flow and I feel like a 
nymphoid barbarian in dinosaur 
hell”; Mark Deshales, as The Man 
With No Face, for befriending Lea 
and teaching her to mouth words 
out of a book, even though she can 
already speak perfect English; 
Alex Pirnie, as The Iguana King, 
for saying “The hell with you —
you’re lizard meat!” and for doing 
the giant-lizard animated effects, 
which looks kinda like Clay- 
mation.
Two stars.
Joe Bob says check it out.
Joe Bob Briggs is from Grape­
vine, Texas and will be back to 
entertain you with his witty movie 
reviews next year.zw1 aodva loofg gIoimn dUfw Hou Us vshwuwghvsx giddwu
¡Once again, dear readers, it is 
tijme to bring this year’s column 
t(j a close. And what better way to 
d£ it than in the summer months 
afread—when time inflates like a 
hpt air balloon and gives us all the 
opportunity to ride its warm cur­
rents into the land of rolling hills 
ajid relaxation!
¡Oh, comics! Summertime sig­
nals the time of year when comics 
bjoom. All, the aroma is invigo­
rating indeed! Only during sum- 
m'er do comics feel like comics, 
and only in the summer do they 
have that distinct aftertaste that 
unfolds during the warmest 
months of the year.
¡Indeed there will be a great 
d$al to whet the most ravenous of 
appetites. So let’s begin with the 
goings-on in the Marvel Universe, 
sliall we?
'Not since the hoopla with Se­
cret Wars many, many years ago 
has there been such a popular 
event in the world’s most popular 
cdmics universe. The Infinity 
Gauntlet is coming in a few weeks, 
and the events of such an inter­
esting project are bound to de­
light numerous new and long-time 
readers.
;'The storyline is simply this: Can 
even the combined might of the 
wjorld’s greatest heroes defeat a 
psychopathic, deranged, schizo­
phrenic god? A running plotline 
in the Marvel universe for nearly 
a ¡decade has been the story of the 
sijx Soul Gems which have been 
scattered through various stories 
oyer the course of a few years. The 
owner of all six gems would in 
essence become a god, with the 
ability to control the fabric of re­
ality, space, time, and peer into 
tfye thoughts of every living being 
iii the whole universe! Yikes!
jThanos, long-time nemesis and 
afchfoe of the Silver Surfer, has 
acquired these precious little com- 
irjodities with only one thought in 
hfs mind: Kill half the population 
of the universe. The demented 
TJhanos believes that by making 
sfcch a sacrifice, he will win the 
adoration of Death. Surely, a ter­
rifying situation!
i Author Jim Starlin, whose spe­
cialty is clearly such cosmic soap 
operas, writes a story that sounds 
interesting enough, but in the art 
i^ where the major marquee value 
lifes.
¡ But why else should I check out 
The Infinity Gauntlet, you say? 
Well, is George Perez enough to 
pique your interest? That’s right,
COMIC RELIEF
by Waseem Hussain
George Perez! Artist of the now- 
classic New Teen Titans and a 
certain other monumental maxi­
series called Crisis on Infinite 
Earths\ If you haven’t seen this 
man’s artwork, then prepare your­
self for a detailed, intricate, mas­
sively delightful trip that can only 
be experienced through such a 
rare project.
As for cross-town rivals DC 
Comics, very interesting things 
are happening there as well. This 
time, the threat comes from 
within. There is no ominous arch­
foe, nor are there any massive 
team-ups. There is only the loom­
ing threat of Armageddon 2001.
Ten years from now one of our 
greatest pals will annihilate all 
heroes and turn into a Big Brother 
who will hold our dear planet in a 
tyrannical death grip. From this 
dismal future comes the idealis­
tic Waverider, who controls the 
very fabric of time, to stop this 
mystery man before the inevitable
Armageddon occurs. Who could it 
be? Superman, Batman, Flash? 
Who I say?
By the end of the summer we 
should all know. Until then Mr. 
Waveriderman will journey from 
one hip title to the next and give 
us folks a glimpse into the futures 
of everyone famous in an attempt 
to figure out who exactly will be­
come Monarch, the insidious 
Orwellian figure who will ruin 
America and ... the world! That, 
column hossers, is a cool idea if I 
ever heard one.
To my immense joy, the first 
installment of this series, the 
Superman Annual, was quite re­
warding. In this tragic story, 
Metropolis is destroyed by a 
nuclear bomb. With it evaporate 
Lois Lane, Jimmy Olson, and all 
of Supe’s pals. The tragedy drives 
the man of steel over the edge.
He becomes obsessed with rid­
ding the world of nuclear weap­
ons, and in his slowly deteriorat­
ing state innocents get killed. In 
this gloomy future story, Batman 
is sent by our esteemed govern­
ment to eliminate the fanatical 
borderline Kryptonian.
The ending is indeed tragic and 
will surely bring a tear to anyone 
with a heart. If any of the other 
annuals relating to the Armaged­
don 2001 storyline are anything 
like this, I would heartily recom­
mend purchase of such fine, fun 
summer fare.
But wait, there’s more! Con­
crete returns with brand new sto­
ries, and in color to boot. Timothy 
Truman, writer and artist of 
Hawkworld and Grimjack, pre­
sents the return of the pulp hero 
The Spider. Dave McKean’s Cages 
is another exciting creator-owned 
project heading your way this 
summer. Mr. McKean is known 
for his painted art on Arkham 
Asylum, among many other 
painted covers that he does for 
several comics, including Neil 
Gaiman’s Miracleman.
The talent behind these books 
is indeed worth investigation, as 
they are proven winners from 
their past work. All in all it seems 
to be another classic comic book 
summer, with massive crossovers, 
big name writers and artists, and 
of course the always amusing 
summer annuals.
©1991 DC Comic, Inc.
Superman — superhero or Big Brother? Find out this summer in 
Armageddon 2001.
Many thanks to Phantom of the Tartan senior staffwriter
Attic for its generosity over the Waseem Hussain is a junior biol-
aIy.s IÖ s.yytss
£8rC 8Cs 81 L7s2rVuW, b8IIs,I brib IsVbC8v8iy 
V87.uCrs,Y DsW2s v885rCi 182 ,sv1f78IrduIsm 
.281s,,r8Cuv, prIb 9uVrCI8,b .28i2u77rCi uCm 
muIunu,s ms,riC sk.s2Ir,sT Q77smruIs Vu2ss2 
8..82IgCrIrs, rCVvgms_
P28|sVI Ssums2_ NuCm,f8C 9uVrCI8,b .28|sVI 
vsum sk.s2rsCVs prIb Ibs unrvrIy I8 7uCuis 
782s IbuC 8Cs .28|sVIT 9u25sIrCi 5C8pvsmis 
uCm u 9u,Is2, msi2ss u .vg,T
P28i2u77s24LCuvy,I,_ euIunu,s ms,riC uCm 
.28i2u77rCi sk.s2rsCVs 8C u 9uVrCI8,bT
Ds 811s2 bribvy V87.sIrIrds ,uvu2rs,o prms 2uCis 
81 nsCs1rI, uCm Ibs 8..82IgCrIy I8 78ds ubsum 
QC y8g2 Vu2ss2T Pvsu,s 7uvv y8g2 2s,g7s QC 
V8C1rmsCVs I8 Sr,u Gg,I2u uI aQwa!tPo PsCC 
asCIs2 Ds,I QQo wgrIs O3’o es.IT ’3E(o PrII,ng2ibo 
PL E-(ç~ 82 1uk OE(4ç6çf3’ç’T
advertisement
5-.-d5’ 
S•DD4G F-C?
O4E’2j 
’2’3c 
W-D4 .’j .•4S5’YM ’ 
C4.O44z m<SAC
tG’Y D’..
4D’SY 
\C3Fr 
•A .- •S 
eG34 B9.E 
9 ’S35 BeD 
C-
4G c-CCY

---------------------------------------------------

Thursday, May 2
The Icicle Thief
A movie within a movie, The Icicle Thief is a 
serenely playful comedy about the corruption of art 
by contemporary commerce — it satirizes the impact 
of TV culture on the integrity of serious filmmaking.
In The Icicle Thief , co-writer and director Maurizio 
Nichetti appears as himself, a frazzled moviemaker 
who shows up at a TV studio to talk about his film, 
The Icicle Thief, before it is aired. However, things 
start to fall apart as some of the characters from the 
black-and-white film begin to visit home viewers, 
and some of the characters from the color commer­
cials begin to visit the movie. Before long, Nichetti 
himself has to dive into his own film to set things 
straight.
If you liked The Purple Rose of Cairo and enjoy 
good slapstick comedy, then check out The Icicle 
Thief.
At 6, 8,10
Friday, May 3
The Breakfast Club
Oh boy! The ultimate “pains of high school” film as 
seen through the eyes of John Hughes. So you’ve got 
the jock (Emilio Estevez), the prom queen (yes, you’re 
allowed to wonder why some big-hair girl didn’t win 
Homecoming queen instead of Molly Ringwald, but 
keep in mind it’s just a movie), the geek (Anthony 
Michael Hall), the delinquent (Judd Nelson), and the 
ultimate wallflower (Ally Sheedy), stuck in detention 
on a Saturday — during which they all reveal their 
tender inner selves, and discover that the others 
really aren’t that bad!
Even though the message is a bit tiring and the 
film isn’t much funnier than when you, were still in 
high school, it’s still got classic moments. If nothing 
else, Paul Gleason puts on the comic performance of 
his career as the detention teacher — I think we all 
had one or two like him in our high school days.
Go see The Breakfast Club. With finals coming up, 
one dollar for memories of a happier day is a bargain.
At 6, 8,10,12
Saturday, May 4
Goodfellas
Originally titled The Art of Italian Cooking, 
GoodFellas stands as one ofthe greatestfilm achieve­
ments of1990 as, once again, Martin Scorsese delves 
into the thrilling world of the Mafia. The film pre­
sents an intensely detailed portrait of the rise and 
fall of a young wiseguy who gets drawn into the 
alluring world of money, glamour, and power. Riding 
high on the strong current of dark humor, the movie’s 
blend of terror and absurdity gives it a polarized bent 
that leaves the viewer out of breath by the end ofthe 
nearly two-and-a-half-hour masterpiece.
The film features the distinguished cast of Ray 
Liotta, Robert DeNiro, and Joe Pesci. Liotta’s anti- 
hero, based on a true person, is the focus of the film. 
He more than holds his own against the formidable 
DeNiro and utterly brutal Pesci, whose overwhelm­
ingly savage performance earned him an Academy 
Award.
Check out this great film and its unique camera 
angles, memorable images, and ironic juxtapositions 
as the fast-paced, slick story portrays a different kind 
of American dream.
At 4:40, 7:20,10, 12:40
Sunday, May 5
Fantasia
Driven by great animation and Leopold Stokowshi, 
who conducted the Philadelphia Orchestra, Fantasia 
delivers a mixture of sight and sound like no other 
movie.
Who hasn’t seen and loved The Sorcerer’s Appren­
tice (performed complete), where Mickey must battle 
those pesky brooms which just won’t disappear? Or 
the exciting fight between the dinosaurs in the 
Stravinsky section? Or the Dance ofthe Hours where 
first ostriches, then hippos in tutus, then elephants 
and alligators dance to the mincing Ponchielli music?
So, before you sit down to cram for that final, take 
a break and relax with a little Disney magic.
At 6, 8,10,12
By STEPHEN GLICKER, WASEEM HUSSAIN, 
& JASON McDONALD
The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 29 April 1991L15TV BREAK
Ql
odili
M.ias 
hr21TI 
h Ir2<
A summary of upcoming epi­
sodes of Carnegie Mellon3s favor­
ite TV shows.
Regular Network Programs
CHEERS. Thursday at 9 pm, 
channel 11 (NBC). Sam wants to 
be a daddy, so the search is on for 
a mom.
DOOGIE HOWSER, M.D.
Wednesday at 9 pm, channel 4 
(ABC). Wanda’s graduating and 
not sure where she’s headed, 
making the prom a less-than-fun 
event for her and Doogie.
FRESH PRINCE OF BEL- 
AIR. Monday at 8 pm, channel 11 
(NBC). Ashley’s idol visits and 
woos her.
L.A. LAW. Thursday at 10 pm, 
channel 11 (NBC). Rollins ques­
tions the usefulness of the police 
force when he defends a man ac­
cused of evading police, Zoey’s 
former law professor seems to be 
losing a bit of his brilliance, 
Becker’s still in sad shape, and 
another romance is in the mak­
ing.
MURPHY BROWN. Monday 
at 9 pm, channel 2 (CBS). Murphy 
has picked on short people for the 
last time, if one angry viewer has 
his say.
NORTHERN EXPOSURE.
Monday at 10 pm, channel 2 
(CBS). Maggie’s premonition has 
Joel dying in a plane crash, giving 
him reason to cancel his much- 
awaited trip home; and an astro­
naut groupie visits town.
QUANTUM LEAP. Wednes­
day at 10 pm, channel 11 (NBC). 
Sam’s on death row in an inno­
cent man’s body, and his life (lit­
erally) depends on finding the true 
guilty party.
SEINFELD. Thursday at 9:30 
pm, channel 11 (NBC). One 
evening at a Chinese restaurant 
creates havoc in the lives of sev­
eral people.
THE SIMPSONS. Thursday at 
8 pm, channel 53 (Fox). Parties, 
fishing, and marital bliss: One of 
these is missing from the lives of 
Homer and Marge.
THIRTYSOMETHING. Tues­
day at 10 pm, channel 4 (ABC). 
Will Michael become partners 
with Miles at DAA? Will Elliot 
change jobs? Big changes are in 
store for this yuppie crowd.
THE WONDER YEARS. 
Wednesday at 8 pm, channel 4 
(ABC). Karen has a new pad which 
doesn’t quite meet with the el­
ders’ approval.
Special Programs
DALLAS. Friday at 9 pm, chan­
nel 2 (CBS). The final episode — 
finally — of this long-running se­
ries (13 seasons). Departed regu­
lars come back as an angel shows 
J.R. what life would have been 
like without him. Starring Larry 
Hagman, Joel Grey, Ted 
Shackelford, Patrick Pankhurst, 
Linda Gray, and Mary Crosby.
DINOSAURS. Friday at 8:30 
pm, channel 4 (ABC). A new show 
from Jim Henson’s Muppet Fac­
tory: all about a family of blue-
collar dinosaurs. This week, a new 
baby and family duties are taking 
their toll on Fran. With the voices 
of Sherman Helmsley, Sam 
McMurray, Stuart Pankin, and 
Florence Stanley.
THE GREAT OUTDOORS. 
Wednesday at 8 pm, channel 53 
(WPGH). A very light outing full 
of cheap laughs and transparent 
situations. Still, it’s a lot of fun. 
Starring Dan Aykroyd and John 
Candy.
PEANUTS: SNOOPY’S RE­
UNION. Wednesday at 8 pm, 
channel 2 (CBS). This new spe­
cial tells how Charlie Brown origi­
nally met Snoopy, and chronicles 
Brown’s efforts to cheer up his 
beagle with a reunion of his pup- 
pyhoodfriends. With the voices of 
Philip Shafran, Kaitlyn Walker, 
Steve Stoliar, Josh Weiner, Lau­
rel Page, and Megan Parlen.
RED DRAGON: THE PUR­
SUIT OF HANNIBAL LECT- 
ER. Friday at 9 pm, channel 11 
(NBC). Simply a new title for an 
old movie, Manhunter. NBC is
TERRIFIC HOUSING 
NEAR CAMPUS
* Furnished Rooms & 
Apartments
* Private Bath
* Laundry & Parking
* All Utilities Paid
* Student Discounts
* Short or Long Leases
682-6018
trying to capitalize on the success-c. 
of Silence of the Lambs, whos& 
main villain, Hannibal Lecter, is>'C 
also featured in this film. Star-?^ 
ring William Petersen, Brian Cox/vy 
Kim Greist, Joan Allen, Dennis^". 
Farina, Stephen Lang, and Christa 
Elliot in a cameo role.
has
Cable Programs -k 2
DOBIE GILLIS MARA­
THON. Wednesday at 8 pm, Nick 
at Nite. Six straight episodes of?£ 
this sixties sitcom about a phUo> 
losophizing high schooler. Bob'* 
Denver (Gilligan) co-stars asiR 
Dobie’s far-out friend Maynard,’"' 
G. Krebs. Also starring Dwaynqis 
Hickman and Tuesday Weld.
VICTOR/VICTORIAN 
Wednesday at 5:45 pm, The Movielj 
Channel. A female singer posesm 
as a male in order to get a job in n 
1934 Paris. Starring Julie An-oi 
drews, James Garner, and Robss 
ert Preston. ps
Compiled by U 
A. FRANKLIN WHEELER^
STUDENT ACTIVISTS!
SUMMER JOBS!! 
PITTSBURGH AREA!!!
EARN $300-400 per week this summer 
working for environmental quality and 
consumer rights. PA’s largest non-profit 
citizens lobby is hiring college students for 
its summer campaign staff in Pittsburgh. 
Call 412-765-2641 for personal interview.
“make a difference, 
not just a buck!"
O4 3z.4GG•e. Y-•G 45•W’.3-z F-G ’z 3De-G.’z. ’zz-•zW4D4z.T
With your nose to the grindstone, you may have missed the arrival of the NeXTstation™ computer. Yes, the one 
that combines the brute force of a workstation with the ease-of-use of a PC. But you have fortunately looked up 
in time to catch the news of this universe-expanding sale. Between now and June 30th, the NeXlstation and 
its trusty companion 400dpi laser printer may be Purchasecl for &250 less than one
might normally expect. For more details on the potential signifi­
cance of these findings, a personal visit would be in order.
Solve the mysteries of the universe 
andsave $250.
for details, contact the CMU Computer Store at 268-2636
_x

---------------------------------------------------

©1990 Warner Bros. Inc.
Robert De Niro and Ray Liotta star in Goodfellas, which will play in DH 2210 Saturday 
at 4:40, 7:20, and 10 pm, and 12:40 am.
Films
Admission for all DH 2210 films is $1 
for students with ID, $2 otherwise. 
Admission to all Pittsburgh Playhouse 
films is $4, unless otherwise stated.
Monty Python and the Quest for the 
Holy Grail will play Wednesday at 5 
pm in DH 3300. Sponsored by the 
Celtic History Society.
The Icicle Thief will play in DH 2210 
Thursday at 6, 8, and 10 pm.
The Breakfast Club will play in DH 
2210 Friday at 6, 8,10, and midnight.
Goodfellas will play in DH 2210 
Saturday at 4:40, 7:20, and 10 pm, and 
12:40 am.
Ay, Carmela! will play at the Pitts­
burgh Playhouse through tomorrow at 
7:30 and 9:30 pm.
Chameleon Street will play through 
Thursday at the Fulton-Annex The­
atre. Admission is $5. For more infor­
mation call 471-9700.
nb I
! ”gWBi
The Lesbian and Bisexual 
Women’s Group meets at the CMU 
Women’s Center Mondays at 7 pm. 
Open to all interested women.
The GCMSO biweekly meeting will 
be held May 7 in Skibo 12 at 6:30 pm. 
For more information see: 
bboard+assocs.IM-GCM@Andrew
Alvin P. Brannick, CMU senior vice 
president for legal affairs, will have an 
open office hour each Tuesday from 2- 
3 pm in Warner Hall 605 for students 
with legal problems. Call x3708 to 
make an appointment.
Rachel Stock, program assistant for 
B’nai B’rith Hillel, will have office 
hours Tuesdays from 4-6 pm at Hillel.
A Poetry and Fiction Workshop is
held every Wednesday at 8 pm in the 
Cathedral of Learning, room 204.
Bring in finished works or write at the 
site.
The Explorers’ Club weekly meet­
ings will be held every Thursday at 
6:30 pm in Porter Hall 225C. For more 
information call Lee Janson at x3457.
The Carnegie Mellon Riding Club
meets every Thursday at 6 pm in 
Porter Hall 226C. Come talk to fellow 
motorcycle enthusiasts about racing, 
mechanics, and rides!
cmuOUT holds business meetings in 
Baker Hall 254C Fridays at 7:30 pm. 
Impromptu social activities often 
follow.
A discussion of computer cluster 
upgrade plans, hosted by Academic 
Computing and Media, will take place 
in the media room in Hunt Library 
lower level Friday from 4-6 pm.
A class in adult CPR will take place 
Sunday from noon to 4 pm. Cost is $6.
Please contact Debbie Cherry, Box 137, 
Baker Hall, with your name, phone 
number, and address if you are inter­
ested in taking advantage of this 
opportunity.
A bagel study break will be hosted 
by B’nai B’rith Hillel Sunday at 12:30 
pm at the Jewish Cultural Center.
Carnegie Mellon Students for 
Peace meets every Sunday at 7 pm in 
Baker Hall 225C. All new members 
and views are welcome — please join 
us. For more information call x5501.
The Pittsburgh Society of Artists
will have a membership meeting today 
from 7:30-10 pm at the Birmingham 
Loft. The speaker will be Mark 
Francis, curator of Contemporary Art 
at the Carnegie Museum and director 
of the Warhol Museum.
An introduction to Lotus 1-2-3 
workshop will be held Wednesday in 
Balter Hall 140 from 5-6:30 pm. For 
more information or to sign up, call 
x5720.
An introduction to EZMail work­
shop will be held Thursday in Baker 
Hall 140 from 5-6:30 pm. For more 
information or to sign up, call x5720.
Awards for writing and poetry will 
be presented by Pulitzer Prize-winning 
poet Carolyn Kizer Thursday at 8 pm 
in the Adamson Wing. Kizer will also 
be reading her own poetry.
The Pittsburgh Association of 
Young Children will hold its annual 
spring conference from 8:15 am to 4:30 
pm Saturday at the Lawrence Conven­
tion Center. The theme of the confer­
ence is “Working for Children: Good 
Beginnings Never End.” For more 
information call x2149.
Chatham College’s annual Spring 
Fling will be held Saturday and 
Sunday on the Quad across from the 
Jennie King Mellon Library on the 
campus. In case of rain, Spring Fling 
will be held in Anderson Dining Hall 
in Mellon Center. Admission is free.
The Apple Trade-Up will take place 
Thursday through May 8 in UCC from 
10 am to 4:30 pm, Saturday from 10 
am to 3 pm. This is a one-time oppor­
tunity to trade in used computers for 
credit toward new Apple equipment. 
For more information call Pete 
Marcanio at x2636.
The Greater Pittsburgh Greens will 
meet at the Friends Meeting House 
Sunday from 3-6 pm. Child care and 
refreshments will be provided.
Registration for Pittsburgh Film­
makers classes will be going on 
through May 6. The semester runs 
from May 6 to August 10. A15 percent 
discount on tuition will be given to 
those registering by Wednesday. For 
more information call 681-5449.
Trips to Israel: An Atid (future) 
Mission to Israel & Poland will take 
place from July 21 to August 4. Opera­
tion redemption, building homes in 
Israel for Soviet and Ethiopian Jews, 
will take place from June 5 to July 28. 
For more information about these and 
other trips to Israel call Cindy 
Goodman-Leib at B’nai B’rith Hillel, 
621-8875.
Volunteers are needed at
Lawrenceville-Bloomfield “Meals on
Wheels,” located at St. Augustine’s 
church on 37th Street and Butler. 
Meals are prepared every day of the 
year for people on special diets who are 
not able to cook for themselves. Help is 
needed in the kitchen and “on the 
road” at various times of the day. For 
more information or to sign up, contact 
Tony or Josie at 687-0830.
Seminars for the City of Pitts­
burgh Marathon have begun. The 
schedule continues with a pre-race 
overview at 2 pm Saturday at a down­
town location. For more information 
call 647-RUNN.
Foreign language tables will be held 
in conjunction with the Modern Lan­
guages Department. All tables take 
place in the Morewood cafeteria unless 
otherwise stated. Tuesdays: II Circolo 
Italiano (Italian), 5-6 pm. Wednes­
days: La Table Française (French) 
beginning at 11:30 am and Bentoo 
Lunch o nihongo de (Japanese) at noon 
in Baker Hall 228A. Please order lunch 
for the Japanese table on Tuesdays in 
Baker Hall 160. Cost is $3. Thursdays: 
Deutscher Stammtisch (German) 
beginning at 11:30 am. Fridays: La 
Mesa Española (Spanish) and 
Russkaya Beseda (Russian) beginning 
at 11:30 am.
The eleventh annual Vintage Run
will be held May 18 at 10 am. This is a 
5-mile run for individuals 55 years and 
older. There will also be a 3-mile fun 
walk. The entry fee is $6 per runner 
and $4 per walker before May 4, and 
$7 per runner and $5 per walker after 
that. For more information call 361- 
5003.
Spend Shabbat dinner at Hillel
Friday. Happy half-hour starts at 6 
pm, services at 6:30 and dinner at 
7:15. For reservations or more infor­
mation call 621-8875.
The Roman Catholic Oratory
celebrates mass daily at 12:30 pm in 
Skibo 39 Monday through Friday. 
Weekend masses are celebrated at 7 
pm Saturday and 10:30 am Sunday in 
the Graduate School of Industrial 
Administration auditorium. For more 
information call the Roman Catholic 
Oratory at 681-3181.
Episcopalians worship at the Church 
of the Ascension Sundays at 8:30 and 
11 am. A class for college students is 
held at 9:45 am. Services are also held 
Wednesdays at 7 am. For more infor­
mation call Hank Suhr at 621-4361.
Electronic and computer music will 
be presented by CMU Music tomorrow 
at 8 pm in Alumni Concert Hall.
Polish concert organist Marek 
Kudlicki will perform at St. Paul’s 
Cathedral tomorrow at 8:30 pm. Admis­
sion is free.
A Mardi Gras jazz jam will be pre­
sented by Chatham College tomorrow 
from 8-9:30 pm in the Wethervane 
Snack Bar in Mellon Center. Admission 
is free.
Saints and Sinners, We Three 
Kings, and T.K.O. will perform in 
concert at Graffiti Friday at 9 pm.
A.T.S. will be performing at The Artery 
Friday at 10 pm.
The Carnegie Mellon Wind En­
semble will be performing in Levy Hall 
at Rodef Shalom at 8 pm on Saturday. 
Admission is free.
Haki Madhubati, the editor ofThird 
World Press, will speak tomorrow from 
4:30-6:30 pm in Wean Hall 7500.
Tim Rollins will speak Wednesday at 
7:30 pm in Alumni Concert Hall as 
part of the Art Department Spring 
1991 Lecture Series.
formal dance event with non-stop 
music and free refreshments.
Exhibits from twenty southwest­
ern Pennsylvania museums will be 
featured at the PPG Place 
Wintergarden May 13-15 from 10 am 
to 6 pm each day. In addition, The 
Pittsburgh Guitar Trio with members 
of Dear Friends will perform at noon 
May 13 and Mark Heverley will 
perform at noon May 14.
“New Generations: New York” will 
be on exhibit through June 30 at the 
Carnegie Mellon Art Gallery.
The Ballroom Dance Company 
from Brigham Young University
will perform at Soldiers and Sailors 
Memorial on May 16 at 7:30 pm.
Nucleodanza, an Argentinean dance 
company, will perform June 14 at 7:30 
pm at the Fulton Theater.
The Pittsburgh Society of Artists
will have an art show at the Birming­
ham Loft June 15 through July 13. The 
juror will be Vicky Clark, assistant 
curator of Contemporary Art and 
director of Publications at the Carn­
egie Museum. The opening of the show 
will be June 15 from 6-10 pm.
The men’s outdoor track team will 
compete in the Slippery Rock University 
of Pennsylvania Invitational Thursday 
and the University of Pittsburgh Invita­
tional May 11.
The women’s outdoor track team
will compete against Grove City College 
Saturday.
The golf team will compete at MIT 
Sunday and in the Engineer’s Cup at 
Boston’s Brae Bum Country Club today.
An exhibit of photographs by 
Hilary Masters is at the Pittsburgh 
Center for the Arts.
Photographs by Alicia Bailey are
being exhibited at the Pittsburgh 
Filmmakers Gallery. Admission is free. 
For more information call 681-5449.
“Saints, Pizzas, and Other Celes­
tial Bodies” will be exhibited begin­
ning Saturday at The Niedbalski 
House. For more information call 481- 
9971.
An End-of-Semester Ball will be 
held Sunday from 7:30-11 pm in the 
Skibo Ballroom. This is a free, semi-
eate!
Reality Optional, at the Artery, will 
have shows Saturday and May 18. 
Curtain time is 7:30 pm.
Stevie will be presented in Kresge 
Theatre May 21-25 at 8 pm with a 
Saturday matinee at 2 pm, and fea­
tures Barbara Bossom, Joan Darling, 
and Jeffrey Chandler. Tickets are $15 
for reserved seating. Call x2407 from 
noon to 5 pm Monday through Friday 
for tickets or more information.
Becky,
I love your smile. I wish we 
could have met somewhere 
else besides this hectic 
campus. Maybe a nice 
secluded spot where we could 
be alone together and things 
would be real, not superficial. 
But it wasn’t meant to be.
YSA
“Hey, Farmer J!”
‘Yeah, Farmer S?”
“Better start memorizing for 
Farmer George’s final...”
“It’s not memorization, it’s all 
‘concepts.’ ”
‘Yeah, well, memorizing the 
concepts, whatever...”
To my ladies,
Well, none of you took me 
seriously this semester, 
therefore SGI still has a Pres. 
Will I have to get down on my 
knees and BEG next semes­
ter or should I put a sign-up 
sheet outside my door?
Goober
Sav Gai'den,
HAPPY MOFO 20th BDAY! 
We’ve earned it...
your twin, Revenge
So, who knows the number 
for Akron University?
Allison, What really hap­
pened between you and Chip? 
I want to know.
Well, Tim, what DO you do 
with a three foot penis?
Beth, Will you teach us all 
your secrets.
HEY WORLD!
good luck in Finals
good luck seniors
good luck Nancy
(hope Frank practiced safe sex)
good luck Kurds
good luck those on probation
good luck those transferring
good luck those staying
you’ll all need it!
PHI, PHI, do or die.
I never want to think about 
Armenia again.
Patryk...
So, did you have fun at the 
“Residual Pagan Celebration” ?
Your former students.
“HeySigTau!!!!!! 
Confuckingratulations on 
Booth. Guess the judges finally 
caught wind of us.
Here it is folks —
Drum roll please ...
May we have the envelope,
And the date is ... 5/16/92!
Love ya, Kitty (aka Ange)
Phi Kap in first, SAE in sixth.
— ALL RIGHT!! 
(By the way, Compubookie’s an 
asshole)
I’m not neurotic.
If you write in Vox Populi, then 
you belong at CMU.
I hope you can get out.
— John Richard Murphy
w
There was this thirsty bear ...
OK, OK, I was drunk.
To the beautiful girl I met at 
the Morewood B-tower elevator 
around 3 am on 4/13 (after 
Presumed Innocent): Where are 
you??? Come to salads this 
Wednesday at 1 pm.
For someone who didn’t hook­
up over Carnival, how did you 
get WET twice in one night?
Boy! How ingenious, photocopy 
the plans and build it exactly 
(pagoda, watermill, house, 
windmill??) Creativity at its 
best.... I think not!
To the man who journeyed into 
Kalista Bay —
Have a seat next to me and I 
will tell you of the egg.... Smile, 
for the knowledge extends to 
few and the pleasure of know­
ing is grand. For you I extend 
the right hand of brotherhood 
while in the left I hold a 
drink.... Let us toast to your 
graduation and sweet revenge!!!
Congrats new BBB initiates
The winking isn’t working
— K Attitude + Hat + Attitude+ 
Sun Glasses + Attitude* Izod 
Jacket + ATTITUDE = JEN
Hick, “It’s better to GIVE 
than to RECEIVE” ask 
his bum chum.
NIFFER
Why didn’t you go to ATO 
this Carnival? Dress didn't 
fit? or isn’t the stain from last 
year out?
— Smedley
To ERIC JOHN BRENDAN, 
Hello you Freshman fool I 
love lacrosse. C’mon join the 
joyride. Be a RIDER.
Congratulations Delta 
Upsilon Seniors 
The years have been fabu­
lous.... See ya at Graduation, 
then it’s TO THE BAR!!!
— The much more fabulous .
Juniors
Congratulations Nosilla 
Nostrebluc
I see sailing in our future...
— Bueller
Hey 5th floor WILD THING, 
can I read your Karma??
INCUBUS,
Let’s play Master & Servant.
SUCCUBUS
