Math Prof Nehari Dies
Morewood Gardens Comes Out of the Woodwork
September 12,1978 Volume 79, Number 2 Carnegie-Mellon University Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213
The CMU Tartan football team, playing with an intensity as evidenced through Rick Leaman in the 
above photograph, beat the California State College's Vulcans by a score of 14 - 3 in their season 
opener at Cal. St. A second quarter 10 yd. touchdown run by Quarterback Rick Brown, on a keeper, 
put the Tartans ahead to stay. In the second half, the valiant Tartan defense tenaciously protected the 
lead against a surging Vulcan offense by forcing numerous Vulcan turnovers. A fourth quarter 20 yd. 
return of an interception for a touchdown, by Ron Markovich, put the Vulcans away for good in the 
game. This is the first time in five years that the Tartans have beaten the Vulcans, a Division II team. 
The Tartans take on another Division II team this week, away from home again, at Ohio Wesleyan. 
One win. Eight more to follow?
Tuition Hike Explained
by Jean Pellegrini at least in the near future. . .If the changes
“Tuition at CMU has historically been in family income in the tri-state area were,
among the lowest charged by any private for some perverse reason, to run counter
university of our stature,” Such is :he to national trends, then using average
theme of the 1978 Tuition Committee behavior data as we have done could have
Report submitted in June. serious consequences.”
President Richard M. Cyert has for sev- Cyert commented,“ I think that we
eral years appointed a Committee consist- have perhaps more competition from pub- 
ing of faculty, administrators, and students lie institutions than, for example, Harvard
to recommend the tuition rate for the or Stanford. The income level is somewhat
following academic year. This year’s lower here than other institutions. We give
Committee suggested that tuition increase [significantly] more financial aid than most
by $400 for a 1979-80 tuition bill of other schools of CMU’s stature.”
$4,100. Cyert subsequently approved and The Committee report stated, “the
recommended the increase to the executive 1979-80 tuition increase should be larger
Committee. than that required to cover the traditional
“I have kept the tuition relatively low student supported share of the Educational
compared to the competition, ” Cyert and General Operating budget. To avoid
commented in a recent interview. The too large an impact in one year on the
Committee report disagrees with this pol- present students, we propose a $400 in-
icy and has recommended that the present crease. . . this should initiate a series of
“gap between CMU tuition and that of tuition increases aimed at closing the
competing institutions” be narrowed gap between CMU tuition and that charged
over the next several years. by our major competitors, whose tuitions
The Committee report stated, “This currently are $400 to $1,000 higher than
Committee believes that the avowed CMU ours.”
policy of maintaining the lowest tuition When asked why there was so large an
in our class of schools should be changed, increase for 79-80, Cyert responded, “What
There are significant opportunity costs you come down to is what costs continue
in not having the additional income that to go up.” Keeping inflationary pressure in
_ tuition louol »uowLd cyert lemmns'Tafthfiil to “keeping
bring” _______ . T -----------— - 'In further explanation about the higher ion costs which are 25% of our total 
tuition stance, the committee reasons,“We costs.”' Faculty salaries and similar ex-
have little hard data on the financial pro- penses must be dealt with as inflation
file of our student body generally so that continues to rise at a high rate. Cyert
one cannot gauge accurately the effects would like to see an increase in faculty
of a tuition increase on our present stu- salaries in the future,
dents. Financial aid percentages have risen Referring to the 1977 Annual Financial
only slightly (from 62% to 67%, of stu- and Statistical Report, Cyert pointed out
dents receiving aid) over the last four that the $16.4 million in tuition income,
years, during which time tuition increased from the combined graduate and under-
37%; graduate sources, make up roughly 30%
“Walter Cathie, Financial Aid Director, °f Total Educational and General 
reports that the financial aid increase can Operating Income. $23.6 million is spent
be correlated with increased engineering almost directly to meet academic/student-
and science enrollments, a group who related expenses;$16.4 million is taken in
traditionally have had higher financial from students via tuition,
aid requirements than other student Cyert stated, “We are very sensitive to
groups. . .the committee thinks that higher the students’ getting their money’s worth,
increases in tuition are both desirable and He believes that an education received at
achievable without severe impact on the CMU is, in fact, a bargain based on the
present student population. Similarly, previously mentioned figures, 
there is little indication that continued The President agrees that rising educa-
tuition increases. . .will generate* signi- tional costs are a burden to the middle in- 
ficant losses of students to State schools, continued on page four
Morewood Gardens, formerly one of the 
most conservative buildings on campus has 
gone through a major face-lift over the 
summer. In the past, while males had 24 
hour visitation rights in A,B,C, and D 
tower, it was considered a bit overbearing 
if they stayed 24 hours a day, seven days a 
week. Now that Morewood is co-ed, men 
have the run of the towers, and aren’t 
faced with funny stares if they walk the
halls at odd hours.
Of course, the most aesthetically pleas­
ing new feature at Morewood (besides the 
new male residents and Pizza Parlor table­
cloths) is the first floor remodeling.
Single unit, wall-to-wall-to-iu niture car­
peting has livened up the entrance area, 
and has made socializing and congregating 
easier. The Morewood Desk sight was 
changed to the top of the steps leading 
from the cafeteria (far right, top). Housing 
is hoping that by moving the desk and 
keeping all tower doors locked, security 
precautions will be increased.
Dr. Zeev Nehari, senior member of the 
mathematics department, died on Septem­
ber 1 of a heart attack in his home.
Nehari, 63, specialized in differential 
equations and complex variables, and had 
been at CMU since 1954. He had written 
a textbook, “Introduction to Complex 
Analysis,” a monograph, “Conformai Map­
ping,” and more than 80 articles published 
in scientific and professional journals.
A native of Berlin, he was awarded his 
master and doctorate at Hebrew University 
in Jerusalem. He previously worked at 
Harvard University, Hebrew University and 
Washington University. He had been a 
member of Haganah, the Israeli under­
ground.
Nehari is survived by his wife, Varda, 
and a brother, Zvi of Israel.
- The family requests that any contri­
butions be donated to a scholarship being 
set up in his honor.

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN
When the fish are biting...
ft He was the '‘Old Man" and before him was “The Sea.” 
He turned, scratched his beard, and kicked the beer can 
with such emotion that Hemingway himself couldn’t 
have kicked it any better. Then he paused to offer his 
story. “You should have seen the one that got away!” 
He muttered. Then he wandered onward, disappearing deep 
into the wa term elton-stained ocean.
He was an upperclassman, and this was to be his season. 
He was waiting for that big catch and he casted his lines 
with assurance, only to reel in stolen bait and seaweed.
Schools of new co-eds, swimming upstream, down­
stream, and cross-stream were his mermaids bearing water- 
mellons. Over the racket of a band that never really got or­
ganized, he tried to capitalize on his "experience." But the 
noise was too overpowering, the waters too thick, and the 
“Old Man” was left only with his fish story. Unlike the 
younger, freshmen-fishermen, this would be. his last Bash- 
fishing trip, and he regretted the dismal realities of aging. 
&A cross the Fraternity cut, a group of Freshmen stood, 
hands in their pockets, talking about the unfortunate 
male/female ratio of the Freshman class. The myth that 
there are only 200 women was the big discussion topic. 
(There are actually more than 400.)
Into the night they complained into their beer. These 
were the fishermen afraid to drop their lines.
'foThey’d just met, but the two blow fish were already 
puckered tip. Their mating season was in full swing. They 
had classes the next morning, but they rode the waves 
smiling, never wanting to reach the shore. 
ifThe Student Senate Coast Guard was snooping. They had 
ordered no rushing within their territorial limits, and since 
they were funding the fishing excursion, they were there to 
patrol the fraternity area. Thcrcr h«# —
*n_ J------anrJtnr nn/V rliri nnthinQ.M The college sophmore with the rod and reel knew that he 
had to throw the young one back in the water. Yes, he 
knew she was sweet and appealing, but he was an angler 
thinking from a moral angle. He decided she deserved a 
chance to grow up, so he took the bait out of+ier mouth.
Then he winked at the high school sophomore and with a 
quick peck on the cheek told her to come back to see him 
at the 1980 Watermellon Bash.
ftSuddenly it was high tide and three freshwomen, scaled 
in jeans, swam to a table to grab a slice of watermellon. 
They met a “shark ” from Pitt (who had no business being in 
those foreign waters) and offered him a slice of their 
watermellon.
He declined. Like all sharks, he was a meat-eater, and it 
wasn’t the mellon that attracted him. He showed his sharp 
teeth before the ladies could doggy-paddle away, 
ft Pier fishing isn’t as exciting as being right on the water, 
but it has the advantages of safety. The fishermen sat on 
the steps and porches of their fraternities catching only 
what came dose to their shores.
'kShe already had a whale of a boyfriend who had the 
power to create tidal waves out of the beer spilled on the 
floors of fraternities. She wasn 't looking for trouble, but un­
wittingly swam into shark infested waters. Her “Orca-killer- 
whale " appeared out of nowhere to rescue her. Whales have 
tiny brains, but a strong protective instinct. 
ftThey’d always been a couple; since high school and even 
before then. But as they swam, gill to gill, Jiolding fins, 
they both had roving eyes. Neither noticed the other’s 
incomplete devotion. But then again, how could they have 
noticed? Fish have eyes that face in two opposite direc­
tions. The two “lovers" could gaze at each other while 
leering elsewhere.
iXThe TARTAN scuba divers were there. Mingling through 
the seaweed talking to fish, fishermen, fisherwomen, crabs, 
and glow-in-the-dark eels. Our notebooks got wet, so we 
climbed to a perch on top of the giant CMU- fish- bowl and 
observed from there. We forsee prize catches galore before 
the water is iced for the winter. The fish are biting !
Sorry about the fishy smell this column has taken this 
week. But people have always said that wrapping fish is the 
best use for this paper and this is our wrap-up.
Still, we apologize. This is definitely an example of 
"the editorial that got away." jeffrey Zashw
Editor-in<hief
Letters
Rhodesian rebuttal
Editor:Dean Otto Davis remarks a- 
bout Rhodesia in the September 5 
TARTAN reveal that he must still 
be living in the same right-vii g 
fantasyland as he was when SUPA 
embarked on the insane Rhode­
sian Project last year.
To say that “one man/one 
vote” exists in Rhodesia today is 
simply not true. To be sure, 
under the proposed interim gov­
ernment elections to be held later 
this year (provided the w!;c!e 
facade doesn’t collapse before 
then) black suffrage has been 
greatly extended. But 28 out of 
100 seats in the new parliament 
are reserved for whites, who are 
outnumbered by Rhodesia’s 
blacks 6,000 to 250,000. That’s 
one man/one vote? Some men 
must have bigger votes than 
others.
A few years ago, Ian Smith, 
head of the illegal regime in 
Rhodesia said that there would be no majority rule there during his 
lifetime. (Personally, I think he 
might be correct in that predic­
tion.) He only cooked up the 
interim government fraud after 
being forced to the wall by the 
war with the Patriotic Front 
guerillas. When it became obvious 
that he could not win that war, he 
tried to avoid losing everything by 
settling with some black leaders 
who were willing to settle for less 
than a truly independant Zim­
babwe. Apparently, like Davis, he 
didn’t realize that any leader will­
ing to join a government with 
Smith is completely discredited. 
That is why Smith’s newly-found 
political bedfellows are powerless 
to end the armed struggle of the 
Zimbabwean people. Nothing that 
Ian Smith, Uncle Sam or Dean 
Davis can do will prevent the
people of Zimbabwe from throw­
ing out the current government 
.and finally achieving their na­
tional in<a<>pp!ndence and dignity.
Finally, with reference to the 
good dean’s comments about the 
American commitment to dem­
ocratic government, I can only 
say “Tell that to the people of 
Chile!”
Thomas Dynia
A new subscriber
Dear Editor-
Please add me to your list of 
subscribers to “the most widely- 
read piece of literature this side of 
Schenley Park.” There are some 
things the Post just doesn’t cover, 
and hopefully you’ll be able to fill 
in the gaps.
Edward J. Cherian 
Washington, D.C.
TARTAN
Volume 79September 12,1978Number 2
Editor-in-chief 
Managing Editors
Business Manager 
News Editors:
Features Editor: 
Assistant News & Features Editor: 
Entertainment Editor: 
Folio Editor: 
Photography Editor:
Jeffrey Zaslow
Saul Carliner 
Lennie Matjasko 
Ellen J. Silverman 
Stephanie Waite 
Jean Pellegrini 
Brian Byrnes 
Linda Deak 
Elliot Ohlberg 
Joan Livitski 
Karen Yaksich 
V.R.V. Ramanan
Copyright 1978 by the Carnegie Motion University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit or 
withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Govern­
ment of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices Skibo 50 (412) R7R 
2111 or 2112. Business Offices: Skibo 52; (412) 578-21 1.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

---------------------------------------------------

more Letters
Bravo!
Dear Editor:
I would like to commend A Phi
0 for the services they have ren­
dered to the students of CMU 
through their booksale last week.
1 bought seven books from them, 
and couldn’t be more satisfied.
Janies Clelland
Hey, look me over
Dear Editor:
I’d like to be rushed. I’m a 
sophomore, and I’ve reformed, 
and I’d like the frats to give me 
another try. Last year I was 
different. I ran from free meal to 
free meal. From mixer to mixer. 
I was the Freshman-Freebie- 
Finder and I wasn’t really con­
cerned with what the fraternities 
had to offer me.
Now I want to get in again, and 
the frats don’t have the policies 
to give me a chance. I guess that I 
could just go knock on the doors
of a couple of frats to express my 
interest, but I’m afraid to do that. 
I think they might remember me 
from last year. Then I was a 
freeloader but good!
Anyway, I’m writing this letter 
hoping that some frat brothers 
will realize that some of us upper­
classmen would like to have bids, 
too. I am leaving you my name, 
but please don’t sign it to this 
letter. Just sign me...
Older, wiser, and in need 
of a decent place to live
Piggly Wiggly 
Dear Editor:
Once again the liberal techno­
crats at Warner Hall have devised 
a new structure for crowd con­
trol:
1) If a student expresses ai 
opinion in poster form on 
an undesignated area, cost 
of removal and a $25 to 
$100 fine will be levied a- 
gainsi the offender.
2) If a student is found on 
any construction site, they 
will receive a $50 fine. In 
such cases where the stu­
dent is in possession of 
school property, such as 
a brick, criminal charges 
will be brought against 
the offender.
May I respectfully request that 
such permissiveness be discon­
tinued. Blatant disregard for prop­
erty should result in immediate 
execution on the cut.
In November of last year a stu­
dent wrote in the concrete of a 
sidewalk. 1/e was fined $600 and 
suspended from school. In April 
of last year ? student suffering 
from mental fatigue engaged me 
in a violent and unprovoked inter­
action. He was acquitted and grad­
uated last fall. If judged by their 
actioi s, the administrators at 
CMU are more concerned with 
property values than they are with 
human values.
Two “Piggly-Wiggly” books 
were found by the tennis courts 
Thursday night. I can return the 
“Piggly-Wiggly” books if you can 
name the titles. Send all entries 
to:
John Acklin 
Art Department 
Studio 20, Campus Mail
John Acklin 
USN retired 
And many, many thanks
Editor:
I would like to take this oppor­
tunity to thank the many people 
whose work resulted in a success­
ful Activities Fair and Watermelon 
Bash.
Despite the gags and jags of 
“mandatory club participation,” 
most clubs which participated 
were pleased with the number 
of potential new members. But to 
quote the TARTAN, I didn’t 
really see it as “an impossibly high
standard of excellence for years to 
follow!”
The success of the Watermelon 
Bash was entirely dependent on 
the cooperation of the Unified 
Fraternal Organization. The effort 
that goes into'making the Bash 
successful is quite extensive and 
the fraternal mobilization was 
greatly appreciated by myself, and 
also I’m sure, by all those stu­
dents who enjoyed the party.
I also want to thank the Pres­
ident’s Office, the Alumni Direc­
tor, Dean Swank, and the Student 
Activities Office for their crucial 
participation in the promoting of 
the Fair.
Elliot Ohlberg 
Activities Fair Committee 
Chairman
All letters to the Editor of the 
TARTAN should be typed and 
signed. Names will be withheld 
upon request. Deadline is Friday 
at 5 p.m.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
DEADLINE: Noon Wednesday. Classified 
rate: $1.00 for every 10 words. Announce­
ments free when typed, double spaced.
classified
Room with bath. $90.00. Five minute
walk to university. Call 681—1414. Ask
for Bob.
An occasional evening needed. Call 521 —
4859 after 4 PM.
Tutors needed fc Free Academic Tutoring
Service. We pay $3.00/hour and you can 
arrange your own hours. Must have at least 
a 2.7 QPA and an A or B in courses you 
want to tutor. Meeting for those inter­
ested Wednesday, September 24, 4 PM, 
Baker Hall I50-A.
Help wanted—part or full time. Car Jockey-
garage attendant, five minutes from CMU. 
Call 681-1414.
Enrico's Hair Stylist for Men is the prof­
essional Touch for the perfection of you. 
111 Meyran Avenue (Between Forbes and 
Fifth) Oakland. Make you appointment 
with Rico, Jr. 682-3738.
Attention All CMU Community:
Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics is coming 
to campus next week! Watch for our ad 
next week for times on our free mini­
lessons.
Behind in your Reading Already?
Attend a free speed-reading mini-lesson 
and discover how you can minimize your 
reading time. Catch our ad in next Tartan
for times of Evelyn Wood's free mini­
lessons.
Restaurant help wanted: Part time and full
time—cooks, porters, dishwashers, bartend­
ers, waiters, waitresses, bus help. Inquire 
at Cafe Stephen B's—5487 Ellsworth Ave. 
at College Ave. in Shadyside. Call 361- 
0I88, 10 AM to 3 PM after Monday, Sept­
ember 18.
clubs
The Society of Women Engineers will
sponsor a reception for all incoming wo­
men in CIT/MIS, Saturday, September 16,
3 to 5 PM in the Skibo Faculty Dining 
Hall. For information and reservations call 
Caryl Moskovitz, x4754, or Katie Johnson, 
x2479 by September 12.
B'nai B'rith Hillel will sponsor the follow­
ing events: Israeli Dancing, Wednesday, 
September 13, 8 PM; Sabbath Dinner and 
Services, Friday, September 15, 5:30 PM; 
High Holy Day Services; and a lunch with 
Rabbi Richard Chapin, of the Hebrew 
Union College, noon, September 18. 
All events at Hillel, 315 South Beliefield 
Avenue, third floor.
WRCT will carry Tartan football games this
year. The Pre-Game show starts at 1:15 
every Saturday afternoon.
FREE ACADEMIC STUDENT TUTOR­
ING (FAST). Don't wait to fall behind in 
your courses. Come to Peer Help, Baker 
Hall 150-A to sign up for a tutor.
Only one-third of all Americans are still
smoking, but nearly half of them are 
women. To help local women with this 
problem, the Christmas Seal League is 
sponsoring free "Quitters Classes... for 
Women Only." Women students who want 
to kick the habit are invited to attend.
As a supplement to the program, the 
League is also distributing a new handbook 
entitled "Your Health: Women and Smo­
king.'' The booklet takes "a candid look at 
the reasons why women smoke...and the 
reasons why they should quit.'' The free 
handbook features current facts about 
smoking's effects on health, pregnancy, 
and other special concerns of women. 
The booklet is available free from the 
Christmas Seal League.
"Quitters Classes...for Women Only" 
have been scheduled for downtown Pitts­
burgh, Wilkinsburg, Squirrel Hill, Sewick- 
ley, Monroeville, and West Mifflin, with 
additional classes to be scheduled later in 
other areas.
Local women who want to kick the 
habit with other women can obtain infor­
mation about registration by calling the 
Christmas Seal League at 621—0400. 
AIESEC, the International Association of 
Students in Economics and Business 
Management, will hold regular meetings 
Wednesdays, 4:30 PM, Skibo room 11. 
New members welcome.
The Computer Club will hold an organi­
zational meeting, Wednesday, September 
13, 7:30 PM. All past members please 
attend. All interested welcome.
Brendan Gill, noted critic of the New
Yorker magazine, playwright and author 
w;ll present a lecture on Wednesday,
September 13 in the Museum of Art 
Theater, Carnegie Institute. Mr. Gill's 
lecture is titled "Irish Culture: The Uses 
of the Past," and is scheduled to begin at 
8:00 PM. Tickets for the Institute spon­
sored lecture are $2.00, and may be 
purchased in the Public Relations Office, 
located on the first floor of the Institute.
Mr. Gill has been a member of the 
New Yorker staff since 1936, and has 
served as film critic, currently he is. tho 
drama critic. He is the author of "The 
Trouble of One House," "Cole," a bio­
graphy of Cole Porter, and "Here at the 
New Yorker," a popular history of the 
magazine.
Alpha Phi Omega is again running the an­
nual U.M.O.C. elections. U.M.O.C. or the 
Ugliest Man On Campus contest is an 
election to find the three ugliest persons 
on campus. This is done by voting, with 
one vote being one cent. All proceeds go 
to charity and stuffing the ballot box is 
encouraged. To enter or to find out more 
information call 683—9811. U.M.O.C. 
will be held October 18th thru 21st. 
Winners will be announced at halftime at 
the Homecoming football game.
The Chess Club announces its first meeting
of the year. Skibo Room 11 at 7:00 PM on 
Tuesday, September 12. Bring boards and 
sets, if you have them.
Starting Monday, Sept. 11 thru Friday,
Sept. 15 Video Tapes including "Let the 
Farce be with You", "History of the 
Beatles", and "Doonsbury" will be shown 
in Skibo Lobby from 9 AM to 4 PM. 
Funded by Lectures and Special Events.
f'.
hr iDT
f¡'" * V
fri
A*¦ >• D \THIS SPACE AVAILABLf
r
A\ ,TEN DOLLARS:A \ • 0 •ri*> *.
[Ti
R
; T ’
; K ;•
T i
\ a;
N
¡FIRST COME - FIRST SERVED]
1
A J
feU
1 r-V
—-“T- 1......J.i. - ¦ U. ,7..1.11.'Will.
byJea nPl greir tA I; v
IM i
È

---------------------------------------------------

If you are concerned about mental health
care services in your community and want 
to make sure that the services provided 
meet the real needs of the people, the 
Citizens' Advisory Mental Health/Mental 
Retardation Center urges you to attend 
their next meeting on September 18, 
1978. This meeting will be held at 7:30 PM 
in Room 207D of Western Psychiatric 
Institute and Clinic. The role and pur­
pose of the Citizens' Advisory Board will 
be discussed.
Students completing teacher preparation
programs and advanced degree candidates 
in specific fields may take the National 
Teacher Examinations on any of three 
different test dates in 1978—79. Educa­
tional Testing Service, the nonprofit, 
educational organization that administers 
this testing program, said today that the 
tests will be given November 11, 1978, 
February 17, 1979, and July 21, 1979, 
at test centers throughout the United 
States.
W3VC, CMU's Ham Radio Club, will wel­
come both new members and old. Watch 
future TARTAN's for meeting times and 
information.
AB Coffeehouse will present Michael
Jerling Thursday, September 14 in the 
Wherrett Room at 9:30 PM as part of 
CMUfest. This event is free of charge. 
Refreshments will be served.
ATTENTION ALL CAMPUS ORGANIZA-
tions: TARTAN announcements are
free only if they are received before 
deadline, typed, double-spaced. Any un­
typed and/or late announcement will 
be subject to charge.
Peer Help will sponsor a training seminar
for new counselors beginning luesday, 
September !9. Students interested in the 
program may sign up at Baker Hall I50-A.
Self Defense courses for women of high
school age or older are being offered by the 
Feminist Karate Union beginning Septem­
ber 13th and 16th, 1978 at Falk School 
Gymnasium, Allequippa Street, Oakland. 
These classes will be taught on Wednesdays 
from 5:30 to 7:00 PM and on Saturdays 
from 12:00 to 1:30 PM. Classes will meet 
once a week for ten (10) weeks and are 
designed for women with no prior know­
ledge of the martial arts. In addition, 
formal karate training is available to 
graduates of the self-dafense courses.
Each course is designed to teach students 
to channel the fear and anxiety associated 
with physical attack into the competent 
use of their hands and feet. Classes will 
include group discussion as well as phys­
ical training.
Information and registration forms may be 
obtained by mailing a stamped self-ad­
dressed envelope to: Ms. Bobbi Snyder, 
1724 Sillview Drive, Pittsburgh, PA 15243, 
or by calling 276—4527.
Med-X, a volunteer placement service, is 
now accepting applications for the fall 
semester. Volunteer positions are designed 
to give clinical experience to students in 
pre-health related fields and include re­
covery rooms, dialysis units, recreational 
therapy, and hospital lab work. For more 
information, or to apply, contact the 
Health Professions Program office, II9 
Scaife Hall, ext. 2484.
Student Senate seats are vacant in the fol­
lowing constituencies: HSS (2), CIT (I),
MIS (I), and SUPA (I). Because the next 
election is not until November, these 
vacant seats are filled by petition. Inter­
ested students should pick up a petition at 
the Skibo information desk or the Senate 
office, obtain signatures from 25 full-time 
students in their constituencies, and return 
the petition to the Rules Committee 
mailbox at the Skibo Information desk. 
In the event that several people petition 
for a single vacancy, the senate will select 
the new senator from the petitioners 
by majority vote.
The office of Assistant to the President
is also vacant. This office's duties are ex­
tensive. This individual may attend Faculty 
Councils, coordinate presentations to the 
Trustees committees, confront the Admin­
istration in other ways, draft legislation to 
be proposed to the Student Senate, or per­
form other duties. The office has a lot of 
potential. The nominee to this office is 
appointed by the President of Student 
Government and confirmed by the Senate. 
Beautiful women and others interested in 
the post may contact John Tumazos at 
73I-9485 or by leaving a note in his mail- 
^^^^^^^Skib^^nf^mation^^j^l^
The Department of Modern Languages and
Literatures will administer proficiency tests 
in French, German, Spanish and Russian 
on Saturday, Sept. 16, 1978 at 10:00 AM, 
in the language laboratory (Margaret 
Morrison 310).
Any student may take one of these 
tests; there is no charge. The test takes 95 
minutes.
Students who demonstrate competence 
at the intermediate level will satisfy their 
college and/or department requirements in 
a foreign language. <Underqraduate only)
Students wishing to take one of these 
tests should sign up in the Modern Lan­
guages Department Office, Baker Hall 
232—C, before Friday, Sept. 15.
The CMU Hockey Team is looking for 
players, managers, trainers, and any stu­
dents or faculty who want to help. An or­
ganizational meeting will be held on Mon­
day Sept. 18 at 7 PM in RM. 11 Skibo. 
Anyone interested should attend and/or 
contact Skip Wallace at 621-1264 or Steve 
Fuchs at 661-8297.
Meet the staff of the Residence Life
program at their social hour on September 
12 in Morewood Lobby at 9:00PM or 
^^tembeiv^Mn^onne^^bbya^^OO.
Tuition Hike Explained
continued from page one
come family. He believes that, “It is not a 
dead loss. Salaries for CMU graduates are 
high and steaily increasing.”
He continued, “Four hundred dollars is 
a large increase. I also pay tuition, for my 
daughter at Harvard, and realize that it is 
not as much as other competing institu­
tions. We are not trying to squeeze the 
student harder. (In fact), we are making a 
great drive to the alumni, foundations and
corporations. This year, < corporate contri­
butions (are in the range of)$675 per stu­
dent.” He added that income from other 
sources such as alumni, corporations, etc. 
is essential to keeping a university first 
rate.
“I don’t want anyone to think that 
tuition is going to continue increasing at 
the rate of $400 per year. Inflation is the 
thing that is biting at present,” Cyert 
concluded.
You're invited 
to a TARTAN staff meeting
Phyllis Wright
Dave Clanton 
Tory Do yesLynn Epstein
Ted SmitsAndy RaganJill FarrellYes
Mory BrennerMeg LevineAmy Lindsay
John MorrisA urey SykesBill Boichel
Doug KicsopLindsey Schube 1Tim Main
You!
David BrandweneKaren SchriverJohn Solirakis
Tom WoodDave McKeeDavid Sheward
Matt MarcusBrooke SkulskiMichael Epstein
Kevin ConwaxScott SibleyMichael Lassoft
Bill BirkholzLinda Kra itch manMichael Saftner
Kathy HraborskyNancy PolomskiAmy Levine
Michelle SimeoniJoan NerskyGail Lindsay
Carol CoyneGreg PisockyDamon C. Burke
Christopher KoenigsbergGeorge GeeLinda Dickerson
Laureen CarrollJohn WallaceSara Gordon
Stanley CieslakDonna WilkersonJeff Harp
Bob PetersonNancy WilkersonHoward Samuels
Bill WallaceLeslie WeiserJan Tu ffeeJeff T. Fisher
Chuck SchultzFrederic SiegelRhoda FunkJulia McA fer
Loni BersonWin WesterveltDale A IstonNancy J. Lefko
Lisa VaughanJohn QuainMike EhrenbergerMichael Lincoff
Nina HouskaRandy LipscherTim KocherElena Rae Schmidt
Howard TurnerRobert ZusmanMichael Mel nickDan Steigerwald
and anyone 
else interested 
in working 
for the 
TARTAN
Tonight 8:30 PM Skibo room 50
it

---------------------------------------------------

September 12, 1978—TARTAN—page 5
Cyert Discusses Improvements, Future
The following message from President 
Cyert appeared in the August Parents 
Bulletin, which was mailed out early last
week:
As I write this letter we are nearing the 
end of a summer which has been a busy 
and productive one. A university campus 
assumes a much different character during 
the summer as many of you have probably 
noticed. Because the student population 
and consequent activity is reduced there 
is a misleading sense of calm and tranqui­
lity.
STRATEGIES FOR EXCELLENCE
An intense amount of preparation for 
the next academic year takes place 
throughout the summer. Large numbers 
of our faculty devote full time to the 
creative work and research which enrich 
the classroom experiences of their students 
in the next academic year, in addition, a 
group of key faculty members and adminis­
trators met immediately after commence­
ment as an outgrowth of an address I made 
to the faculty in the spring entitled “Stra­
tegies for Excellence.”
We began planning for these sessions in 
March with the formation of an agenda 
committee composed of faculty members 
and department heads. The usefulness of 
the sessions came from the joint discussion 
of problems rather than from the agree­
ment on specific actions. One of the impor­
tant virtues was the fact that everyone’s 
attention was focused on the objective of 
attaining a higher level of excellence than 
we already enjoy. A number of faculty 
members commented on the desirability 
of repeating the experience. The objective 
of maintaining and improving excellence 
must be the major goal in everyone’s mind 
for the next five years.
The costs of providing the quality of 
education we pride ourselves on have con­
tinued to rise. One of the major costs is 
for distinguished faculty; a second is for 
energy. I continue my dedication to the 
principle that a private university can 
improve constantly while living within its 
means. Early in my administration it was 
possible to effect major budget savings 
through reductions in personnel and 
through the elimination ot wasteful prac­
tices. Using these techniques, we have 
maintained a balanced budget with only 
modest annual increases in tuition since I 
became President.
This will mark the sixth straight year 
that we have finished in the black, and this 
fact gives all of us a feeling of satisfaction. 
Without trying to sound like the coach of a 
winning basketball team, I want to say that 
the accomplishment of the fiscal turn­
around has been a team achievement. The 
provosts and the deans have all been vital 
factors in our success. The most important 
contribution, however, has been made by 
Dick Van Horn, Vice President for Manage­
ment, and the financial group that reports 
to him. We have far better controls than we 
did five or six years ago. and we can pre­
dict more accurately. Other important 
contributions have come from Bill Elliott, 
Vice Provost for Enrollment Planning, and 
Walter Cathie. Director of Financial Aid,
and from Jack Johnson, Vice President 
for Development.
TUITION FOR 1979-80
The establishment of the necessary 
tuition charge is a complex matter. The 
needs of the institution and of its students 
must be balanced carefully against the 
resources available to meet them. In the 
best of all possible worlds a highly select 
institution could generate resources ade­
quate to its own and its students’ needs so 
that tuition need never be charged. Only 
a few American institutions have ever 
attained that state, and no private instution 
of remarkable quality is able to operate 
that way today. In attempting to achieve 
the delicate balance among resources, I 
have always believed that while some por­
tion of annual giving should be applied to 
annual operating costs, too great dependen- 
dence on annual giving places the insti­
tution in serious jeopardy during periods 
when the growth of the economy falters. 
As many of you are aware, I have therefore 
requested that the University's annual 
budgets decrease their dependence on 
annual giving, and depend more realistical­
ly on the income from endowment, the 
overhead from research, and on restricted 
gifts to bridge the gap between a reason­
able tuition and the cost of operating the 
University. This has permitted us to focus 
our fund-raising efforts on improving our 
endowment and developing for the long 
range a guarantee that we will be able to 
continue to provide a quality education at 
a tuition cost that students can afford.
I have for several years now appointed 
a committee composed of faculty, adminis­
trators. and students to recommend the
tuition to be charged in academic year that 
begins a full year after the committee has 
completed its work. The recommendation 
of the committee is then discussed in a 
meeting with the principal members of the 
administration before I make a recom­
mendation to the Board of Trustees for 
their approval.
After the Tuition Committee made its 
report, and the follow-up meeting, I recom­
mended to the Executive Committee, who 
approved, that tuition be increased by 
S400 to $4100 for academic year 1979-80. 
This increase is a large one. but we feel it is 
needed in light of inflation if we are able 
to maintain our academic quality.
The effect of inflation on our costs is 
serious. Although I would have preferred 
a smaller increase, it would have seriously 
reduced our ability to maintain or accele­
rate the momentum now established in our 
efforts to improve quality.
I referred earlier to the fund-raising 
drive, a principal component of which is 
an increase in our endowment. Gifts and 
pledges now stand at $65.6 million. We 
have met the conditions of a challenge 
grant which required us to demonstrate a 
major increase in alumni giving. The 
corporate phase of our campaign has gone 
extremely well and reflects I believe the 
business world’s respect for our efforts to 
educate professionals who will make a 
strong contribution to society. We should 
be placing special attention in the coming 
year on the alumni phase of our campaign.
CAMPUS IMPROVEMENTS
Other developments on campus which 
may be of interest to you include the 
construction now in progress. The most
visible of the capital projects under way 
include the construction of a new student 
residence complex on the south side of 
Margaret Morrison Street adjacent to Boss 
Hall. The buildings, scheduled for com­
pletion in August 1979, should go a long 
way to relieve the crowding in our resi­
dence halls. They are designed to 
provide a greater sense of privacy to those 
students who occupy them a year from 
now.
Excellent progress continues on the ad­
dition to the GSIA building.
In addition, we are extending the cam­
pus steam mains across Forbes Avenue to 
supply the twelve buildings in the Frater­
nity quadrangle. The extension will allow 
us to retire aging gas-fired boilers in the 
older houses and provide significant energy 
savings. More important, a potential safety 
hazard, the unattended boilers, will have 
been removed.
FRESHMAN ENROLLMENT
I am pleased to report that we will 
enroll a freshman class which is of excel­
lent quality although somewhat larger than 
we anticipated, especially in the College 
of Engineering. We have added sections of 
required courses as necessary to insure 
that the high quality of our program and 
the potential for close contact between 
student and instructor will be continued.
There is a sense of anticipation as Sep­
tember approaches. We expect the acade­
mic year to be an exciting and fulfilling 
one. We look forward to continuing to 
share that excitement with you.
Richard M. Cyert 
President
TYPESETTERS
NEEDED!
Please complete this application and return it to the TARTAN as soon as possible. If you have 
any questions feel free to call 578-21 I 1 or leave a note in the TARTAN mailbox at the Skibo 
Information Desk.
NAME
ADDRESS ________________________________________________PHONE
WORK STUDY?__________________________________TYPING SPEED
Have you ever used an IBM Selectric typewriter?________________________Composer?
Please list all the hours you are available each day. ALL typesetters will be asked to 
work 4 hours each weekend. Typesetters will be paid $3.00/hour.
MONDAY _____________________________ TUESDAY_______________________________
WEDNESDAY______________________________ THURSDAY_____________________________
FRIDAY _____________________________SATURDAY____________________________________
SUNDAY__________________________________
10,250 Topics
Send today for your up-to-date, 256- 
page, mail order catalog! Enclose 
$1.00 to cover postage & handling. 
Prompt delivery.
RESEARCH ASSISTANCE, INC.
11322 IDAHO AVE.. # 206EG 
LOS ANGELES, CALIF 90025 
(213) 477-8226
Our research papers are sold 
for research purposes only

---------------------------------------------------

page 6-TARTAN-September 12, 1978
Dillon "Notices" Campus Improvements
The following is a notice to all students 
from William Dillon, Director of Auxi­
liary Services concerning recent campus 
improvements.
I hope all freshmen and returning stu­
dents are pleased to find the improvements 
which have occurred in the residence halls 
during the summer. In our second summer 
of major renovations we have (1) begun 
the construction of a new 200 student 
apartment complex, (2) remodeled the first 
floor of Morewood Gardens, (3) upgraded 
the student rooms in Boss, McGill and 
Scobell Halls, and (4) extended the campus 
steam supply to the fraternities and More- 
wood Gardens. Hoping to maintain this 
momentum, there are several projects
scheduled to proceed during the academic 
year. The new apartment construction will 
continue with an estimated completion 
date of early summer 1979. The steam line 
construction and Morewood Gardens base­
ment renovation are to be completed early 
in the fall. Additional student housing is 
planned for the barber shop area of the 
Woodlawn Apartments and the Mudge 
Kitchen. Emergency power systems are 
being installed in the Hill Dorm area and 
Doherty House and new windows will 
be installed in Doherty House, Welch and 
Henderson Halls. We are already planning 
for the summer of 1979 when the upper 
levels of Morewood Gardens will be re­
modeled to provide better exits, more
bathrooms and limited kitchens. Donner 
Hall and Hamerschlag lounge areas will be 
upgraded. New electrical and hot water 
systems are being planned for Mudge A 
Wing. I hope to have active student parti­
cipation in planning these future changes. 
Unfortunately, as with all undertaking of 
this magnitude several inconveniences are 
foreseeable. I wish to discuss them briefly 
with you in this letter so that we may 
minimize future unhappiness.
First, there will no doubt be noise and 
dust created by the academic year phase of 
construction. Please accept my apology in 
advance for this annoyance and believe 
that we are doing everything possible to 
minimize it. If a situation becomes unbear­
able please call me at ext. 2051 and I will 
try to help.
Second, a contractor may from time to 
time need access to a student room. The 
Housing Office will attempt to notify you 
in advance if this is to occur. If you have 
not been notified or if an individual seems 
suspicious in any way ask for identification 
and call the Housing Office before admit­
ting the individual.
Finally, the construction areas will 
often contain lumber, bricks, supplies and 
machinery. A student could be seriously 
hurt while exploring or tampering with 
something. For these reasons I wish to 
notify all students that construction areas 
are off limits. Students found on the new 
dormitory site at any time on in any un­
authorized area will be referred to the stu­
dent discipline process to face a fine of 
$50 for the first offense. Recognizing the 
seriousness of the problem the university 
has also agreed to support the criminal 
prosecution of students caught removing 
anything from a construction site or found 
in possesion of construction materials. 
Please resist the temptation to visit these 
areas.
Despite these concerns I hope we can 
have a comfortable and rewarding aca­
demic year and that the progress made 
toward improving your environment can 
be continued.
Swank Warns 
About Noise
Last Thursday, Dean Swank issued the 
following notice to all student organiza­
tions:
The activités scheduled in connection 
with Orientation and some of the activités 
of fraternal organization during the past 
weekend have produced a large number of 
complaints of the campus because of the 
noise and because of the public display of 
alcohol.
One group of residents of the Squirrel 
Hill area threatened to seek legal action 
should their evenings again be disturbed 
by noise emanating from the campus.
I am requesting Security officers on pa­
trol to notify an organization which can 
be heard beyond the limits of the campus 
to turn off all amplifiers involved immedi­
ately. Failure to do so will result in disci­
plinary action.
I should also like to remind all students 
and student organizations that, while the 
University will not normally interfere with 
private conduct, it can not ignore the pub­
lic display of consumption of alcohol. The 
University can not permit the service or 
consumption of alcohol in public areas 
under its supervision. Unless organizations 
are able to exercise care and discretion in 
these matters, the academic community 
risks regular interference from public 
regulatory agencies.
Wrong Number
In the last issue, an aiticle stated that 
847r of CIT applicant , were admitted to 
CMÜ. This figure is incorrect, and only 
77% of the applicants were accepted.
Let aTI calculator help you make more efficient use of your time. 
This semester... and for years to come.
Now, more affordable than ever!
price:$60.00
PLUS | for a limited', time aTheTI Programma- ^ «1» rnlv.itf» ble 57 is a powerful / I CDdXt
slide rule calculator / with the purchase, 
with statistics and de- ^7 _ of a TI-57. cision making capabil­
ities to help solve repeti­tive problems...quickly and 
accurately.
Powerful program memory stores 50 fully-merged 
steps for up to 150 keystrokes. Computer-like func­
tions include editing, branching, subroutines, and 
more. Slide rule capabilities include functions of x, 
as well as log, trig, and statistical functions. Comes 
complete with an easy-to-follow learning guide.
With its new, low price and limited time $5.00 re­
bate, the Tl Programmable 57 offers an unsurpassed 
value. Act now to take advantage of this outstand­
ing offer.
Use this coupon to obtain your $5.00 rebate.
Texas Instruments will rebate $5 00 of your original TI-57 purchase price when you 
(1) Return this completed coupon, including serial number. (2) along with your 
completed TI-57 customer information card (packed in box), and (3) a dated copy 
of proof of your purchase verifying purchase between August 15 and October 31. 
1978 Yotir coupon, customer information card, and dated copy of proof of pur­
chase must be postmarked on or before November 7, 1978 to quality for this 
special offer
Send to:
H-57 Rebate Offer, P.O. Box 53, Lubbock. Texas 79408
Address.
City-
State.Zip
TI-57 SERIAL NUMBER________________________________________________
(from back of calculator)
Please allow 30 days for delivery Offer void where prohibited by law Offer good in 
U S only
m S3 45 w &
m m (£price:
$70.(
Do business and financial classwork quickly 
with this powerful calculator.
For business administration, financial analy­
sis and planning, real estate management, 
investment analysis, and more. The MBA’s fi­
nancial functions include net present value 
and internal rate of return for variable cash 
flows. Payment, present and future value, 
number of periods for annuities. Also, days 
between dates, and direct solution of yield for 
bonds and mortgages.
_ Statistical functions
include mean, variance, 
_ and standard deviation 
at the touch of a key. 
Built-in linear regression.
Simple programmabil­
ity lets the MBA remem­
ber a sequence of up to 
32 keystrokes.
The MBA comes with a 
valuable book, Calcula­
tor Analysis for Business 
and Finance. Shows you how to apply the 
power of your MBA to business and financial 
decision making.
At its new, low price, the MBA 
presents an exceptional value to 
the business student. See it today.
'U S suggested retail price
TYPES RNSD!byYNDS
INCORPORATED
© 1978 Texas Instruments Incorporated 45603
weooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooaoooo^u
CALL 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE 
cirmn /in a

---------------------------------------------------

Financial Aid
3
September 12,1978-TAR TAN-page 7
President's Place
by John Tumazos 
Student Government President
I’d like to welcome old and new stu­
dents to the campus and wish everyone a 
good year. For those individuals who are 
interested in student government, gradua­
tions and bad grades have created ample 
opportunities. Six Senate seats, including 
two in H&SS and one each in CFA, CIT, 
MIS, and SUPA are vacant. In addition, 
the office of Assistant to the President is 
also vacant.
The Trustees meet three times each 
year. These one day meetings are usually 
scheduled in September, January, and 
April. This month my attention will be 
focused on the Trustees Presentation. I 
will be permitted to speak to the Trustees 
for perhaps three to five minutes. This 
provides little opportunity for effective 
representation.
I plan to propose two initiatives at the 
first Student Senate meeting. First, we 
should mail the TARTAN each week to 
each Trustee. Not only will this provide a 
way of letting the Trustees know what’s
going on in the campus, but in depth arti­
cles may be directed specifically at the 
Trustees. This will cost $10 per year per 
trustee.
Second, I will propose that the Student 
Senate institute a monthly newsletter from 
the Student Senate to the Board of Trust­
ees. This newsletter should be' brief and 
focused on a small number of very impor­
tant issues. A one or two page newsletter 
limited to one or two issues would be 
appropriate.
I haven’t decided which issues to stress 
a., the Trustees meeting. The summer de­
cision process is one problem. In our ab­
sence this summer next year’s tuition has 
already been increased and the proposed 
off-campus housing office was canned. The 
summer is a convenient time for Warner 
Hall to make unpopular decisions.
Other problems that I might discuss 
include housing, academic attrition, club 
athletics, and other old standbys. Anyone 
with suggestions may contact me personal­
ly of leave a note in my mailbox at the 
Skibo Information Desk.
C-BOOK CORRECTION FORM1978-79
If any of the following information has changed since you filled out your 
3-D form, please fill out this form and send in to A Phi O, Box 100, Campus 
Mail.
Name
Major 
Phone _
: Local address
Class
Mailbox
Stealing a phone call isn’t a game.
Most students play by the rules 
when placing a long distance 
call. They take advantage of bar­
gain rates and make their calls 
dunng the discount periods. It 
you're hot sure when you can call 
at discount rates, check your 
phone book
A tew students think it's O.K. to 
break the rules by stealing their 
telephone calls They're not beat­
ing the system; they re taking 
advantage oi all of us, because it 
drives up the cost oi providing 
telephone service.
Students who break the rules also 
run the risk oi paying a large iine. 
Spending time in jail. And getting 
themselves a permanent police 
record.
015. 97.1 841 6431: '1•
(S) Bell of Pennsylvania
3.00 per hour to start 
Univ. Food Service 
Kiltie Cafe' 
Employment Office

---------------------------------------------------

CMU ACTIVITIES BOARD
AND
PITT UNION PROGRAM COUNCIL
PRESENTS
"A DAY IN THE PARK
WITH
THE FLYING BURRITO
BROTHERS
AND
JONATHAN EDWARDS
FREE CONCERT
Sunday, September 17, 1978
2 P.M.
Flagstaff Hill
Funded by Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

2c.PTtM5&R \<£ i‘i?‘?/'voL.OM5' ll\ /liiOG I 
iT‘t -A KVp1 g VORL'P
It's a kid's world,
It's a fun world,
It's a cruel world,
It's an adventurous world.
It's a world at home 
Where you're never alone. 
Love sets the tone 
Of joy in a happy home.
It's a world at school 
Which challenges the fool. 
Learning is a tool.V LGrades are a step on the stool. \
V Vll'I i t!! s
It's a world of dreams.
The bad ones cause screams. 
Ah, but sometimes it seems 
Some are sweet as cream.
It's a world of life 
Sometimes marred by strife 
As if someone took a knife 
And pierced out the life. 
But it's marked by peace 
When everyone feasts 
And troubles cease 
And the world's at ease.~y.w f
\ \
O

---------------------------------------------------

\Tô & ù*d> lemns'
by Saul Carliner
Life has five stages-infancy, childhood, ado­
lescence, adulthood, and old age. Whatever 
stage one is in, he wants to be in another. A baby 
wants to be a child, so he can do for himself. A 
child wants the freedom of a teenager. A teen­
ager feels imprisoned and seeks adult responsibil­
ity for himself, to free himself of parental rules 
and regulations. An adult wants to get out of his 
heavy responsibility and return to his carefree 
teenage days. An old person wants to be young, 
to have a second chance. If no one likes his own 
world, then whose world is it? Well—I'm a kid 
and I like my world. So I guess it's a kid's world.
Saul Carliner, as a counsellor at an overnight 
camp in Maryland this past summer, got' the op­
portunity to not only write but to direct and 
stage an original children’s play. This week's 
FOLIO contains exerpts from that play, entitled, 
It's A Kid's World. The play is actually a series of 
monologues which explore the way a child’s mind 
view the universe around him. Some of the ob­
servations are appropriately childish, but many 
are remarkabley astute. Haven't we all agreed on 
some of the points brought up in "School”,even 
recently, and who among us hasn't longed for 
the escapism of “Dreams"? They say that from 
the mouths of babes. . .
TARTAN FOLIO
SEPTEMBER 12, 1978/VOLUME lll/ISSUE 1 
IT'S A KID'S WORLD
EDITOR: K.A. VAKSlCH 
ASSISTANT EDITOR: FRED LA POINTE 
ART DIRECTOR: LISA AMOWITZ
CONTRIBUTING ARTIST:
SAUL CAHLINER
\ * 3 'r'~i O T“
. \ <. ~ > ifA M 
w £>a 'x \fi
W£RuI>
o
I.,'''V'...........
A is for arithmetic where we learn to 
count, add and subtract.
B is for basketball, which is what 
we're playing in gym today.
C is for crackerjack, which is what I 
wanted my mom to pack in my 
lunchbox today for dessert.
D is for drawing, the lesson in art 
today.
E is for enough. I've had enough of 
school,
F is fun. Some think school is fun.
Ha!.: v;:: •.i- X -+ <' ? vC ' v s ^ -. ' • ' ¦
G is for grammar which is how to con­
struct sentences properly.
H is for health in which we learn how 
to heal wounds, treat sick people, and 
use deodorant
II ' f: : ' ; ;'
I is for ice cream, which is what I 
wanted in my lunchbox for dessert 
if there wasn't any more crackerjack.
J is for ai) the jobs the school does—it 
teaches us to read and write, under 
stand the world, decide what to do 
with our lives, and keeps us children 
off the street
K is for knitting. I must knit in class 
in order to stay awake.
L is for languages. We learn Spanish
N is for nothing, which is what I'm 
teaming in school.
O is for office, which is where P is.
P is for Principal—the one that's 
spelled P-A-L, but he ain't no pal of 
mine, even though I don't go a day 
without visiting him.
.¦ . : . . . " , ; . 7: . ;;:
Q is for quiet, which is what the 
teacher's always telling me to be.
R is for relevant, which is what edu­
cation shoulc be. Education should 
include those skills which relate to 
everyday life.
S is for social studies in which we
five.
T is for tests which we get to make 
sure we know the stuff.
U is for unsure, which is how I feel 
every time I take a test
SS81I§§!
V is for vichysoise, which is what I 
wanted mom to pack in my lunchbox.
W is for the waterfountain, which is 
at school.¦
.
mm
X is for xylophone, the instrument 
play in
Y is for the question I always ask
E'CVioo L
I ride a big yellow bus to school. It picks me 
up at home at 8:30, so I can get to school by 
quarter to 9. Once I'm at school the school day 
goes as follows:
8:45 Warning bell
9:00 School begins with announcements
and the Pledge of Allegiance.
9:15 Jimmy asks to go the bathroom.
9:58 End of reading, Jimmy comes back.
10:00 Math
10:05 Johnny throws a spitball at Emily.
10:06 Emily yells at Johnny.
10:08 Emily is sent to the office for yelling
at Johnny.
11:05 Steve says music is irrelevant to the 
curriculum.
11:06 Teacher abandons lesson to give lec­
ture on relevance to the curriculum.
11:30 Lunch. I love lunch. Lunch is the best
subject in school. I could eat lunch
every period of the day. I'd even do it
educationally. For reading, I'd have an 
English lunch, with alphabet soup. 
For math, I'd eat a numerical lunch— 
I'd count the amount of times I chew 
each morsel. And for geography, I'd 
eat an international lunch—pizza from 
Italy, French fries from France, and
fortune cookies from China. I'd do so 
well, I'd get an A+ in everything!
12:15 Social Studies. In social studies we're
going to start a unit on international 
unity. We'll learn that despite cultural 
differences and ideological disagree­
ments, it's a small world after all.
1:08 Announcement. 'The fire drill sched­
uled for this afternoon has been can­
celled." I didn't even know there was 
supposed to be a fire drill.
1:30 Grammar. Today we are going to
study the alphabet.
2:00 We have a test in social studies.
Personally, I find tests useless. I think 
they're a gross waste of time. Either 
you know it or you don't. A teacher 
can figure that out by talking to you. 
All a test does is see who cheats the 
best.
3:15 and no one's here yet for the student
government meeting. I guess that 
always happens. A lot of it's due to 
apathy. And a lot of it's due to the 
fact that people think we're just a 
bunch of jerks who do nothing. 
Actually we are a bunch of jerks—no, 
only kidding. But we did organize a 
canned food drive, an assembly on 
movie making, and a spring fair.

---------------------------------------------------

September 12, 1978-TARTAN—page 11
m Sepet mb
v*y'Of‘AWT
1¦F
¿03.
-.0i
^5/1)1/
This is my home. It's a white house with black 
shutters on the windows and a red door. It has a 
living room where we keep our piano and the 
family portrait, a dining room where we eat, a kit­
chen where my mother fixes the food, a family 
room where we all sit around the fire-place and 
pop popcorn and tell stories, and three big bed­
rooms - - one for my parents, one for my two bro­
thers, and one for me and my sister. I like our 
room best. My mother, my sister and I did it all 
by ourselves. We have pink checked bedspreads 
with matching curtains. Me and my sister share a 
big dresser that's all white with gold decorations 
on it . Then I have bookshelves where I keep my 
favorite books and dolls. I love fairy tales, espe­
cially Cinderella. But that's only a story. And my 
house is for real.
My favorite room in the house is the bathroom. 
When I get mad, I can go in there and lock out all 
my troubles. When I take a shower, I can sing. I 
like to sing a lot. But nobody likes my singing. 
Maybe that's why I take a lot of showers.
Personally, I like the kitchen best, because I 
love eating. Where there's food - - there's me.
I hate the living room. We're not even allowed 
in there. "You'll mess up the room," my mom 
says, " or you'll break something." That's hot 
"living". Why doesn't she just rope off the place 
and turn it into a shrine? Come to think of it, my 
portrait's in there, so why not?
My back yard is so big. It's got a swing set, an 
above-ground pool, a sliding board, and a big 
hole. Me and my friend Jerry started it while 
making mudpies. Now we're digging to the center 
of the earth. So far we haven't reached it.
I hate making my bed. Why should I, if it's 
just going to get unmade tonight?
And why do we use china? If we just used pa­
per plates, we'd never have to do dishes again.
I love riding the lawnmower. I bob up and 
down and up and down while we shear the grass 
to a bald pulp. Then we attack the hedges and get 
them in shape. Finally we lay down fertilizer, 
which is really only cow shit, all over the ground. 
And we have a manicured lawn.
I love thunderstorms at night. I mean, I get 
scared when it happens, but everyone in my fam­
ily stops fighting and cuddles up in my parents' 
bed. My mother doesn't hit me. My father doesn't 
yell at me, and we all sing songs together like, 
"We ain't got a barrel of money, and things aren't 
sweet as honey, We're just movin' along, singin'
We're not rich. We're a simple middle class 
American family. My mom charges everything on 
a Mastercharge. My dad cries at the end of the 
month that she spent too much. We take a family 
vacation once a year, we believe in God, and we 
live in a house in suburbia. We shop at a nearby 
shopping center, we take day trips once a month 
to the nearest tourist attraction, and we have 
lots of relatives. Oh boy, do we have lots of 
relatives!
I have a nanny. Two nannies, actually. Some 
people call their nannies Grandma or Bubbie or 
Gram, but they don't know how to talk right. 
Anyway, my Nanny's really nice. She gives me 
presents like electronic football and a Star Wars 
watch. I don't give her presents. My nanny also 
cooks a lot. She makes me chocolate chip cookies 
every time I come to her house. Actually, she just 
takes this stick and cuts it up into pieces, but it's 
almost like baking.
I love my daddy so much that I decided to 
write this poem about him:
My daddy is good in every way.
Every Friday he brings home his pay.
He always reads me a bedtime story
Just for me, his little Lori.
My daddy's a big stong man.
If I can't lift it I know he can.
My daddy has beautiful blue eyes.
He says he's skinny, but sometimes he lies.
My daddy is the greatest guy,
He's always lifting me to the sky.
I want to tell him I love him so,
So I will.
(Sorry it doesn't rhyme, but I couldn't think 
of anything to rhyme with "so".)
Nobody likes Aunt Emily. She always butts 
into everybody's business and tells people what 
to do. For instance, cousin Susie got her hair 
dyed blond and Aunt Emily told Susie she looked 
like a sick chicken and she should hide under 
her covers til her hair grows out. But I feel sorry 
for Aunt Emily 'cause nobody likes her. She 
lives all alone now and her children don't 
even come to see her. I think that if we're a 
real family we'd be nice to her anyway.
My sister and I always fight. She digs her long 
fingernails in me, but I get back at her when I 
sock her in the stomach. 1 don’t know why we 
fight.
/AOffV'OC tHlL
i w
JJT
My mom is a mean old lady. She yells at me 
all the time. "Get the trash, clean up your room, 
do your homework!" If you ask me, she should 
cut out all the yelling and start doing her stuff. 
Like cleaning the house. I found dust in the 
living room yesterday. How can she expect me 
to clean up if she won't do it herself? And home­
work! If she bothered to read the cookbook, she 
wouldn't have used pepper instead of salt. I 
really think she should take lessons in how to 
oe a mother. I could teach her. ..
(interrupting) NOTHING! You just listen a se­
cond. / work hard all day to keep a nice home for 
you. / cook as best / can, and / usually do a good 
job. / dean up as often as possible, but / can’t 
get every last dust speck. And I work full time so 
we can afford this nice house. And so you can 
have your stereo system and color TV and piano 
lessons and soccer camp and ski equipment. You 
may not like helping around the house, but if 
everyone doesn't chip in, we can’t have all those 
things. And remember something, dear, / only do 
the best for you. Because / love you.
You do?
Yes.
But you yell at me so much!
You fight with those you love.
Then I guess I love you a whole lot.
our song, side by side."
What’s the one thing you need in your home?
Our house needs a stereo system.
We need a new TV.
We need one of those home video machines.
I want a new dog. You are one already!
We should give my baby brother up for adoption.
I need more allowance. As you know, the cost of 
living is increasing at a rate of 8% per annum. 
Soon the $3.00 movie and 20 cent candy bar 
will be things of the past. Furthermore, the in­
come of the average family is rising at a rate 
higher than the inflation rate. Therefore, I need
an allowance raise to help me keep pace and raise
lr=...... ............ 1 - .............................—
my standard of living. Besides, Jimmy Money's 
parents raised his allowance and I'm going to cry 
all day and night until I get one myself.
We need a new dishwasher.
I want my own room.
We need to redecorate our living room in Med­
iterranean style.
We need Glade air freshener.
No—not things you want. That’s not what / 
asked. What can you do to improve your home? 
Oh, we got lots of love in our house. That's all 
we really need.

---------------------------------------------------

page 12—TARTAN—September 12,197b
Sleep. It's really weird. I start off not wantinc 
to go to sleep but I guess I'm so tired I fall asleep 
whether I want to or not. And then, all these 
magical wonderful things begin to happen to me 
People who hate me and beat me up, don't . 
Instead, I achieve victory over them. Girls who I 
like, but who don't even notice me, are in love 
with me. I travel to faraway places and fairy 
tale times. I remember one night I dreamt that 
I went to England and saw Big Ben and Bucking­
ham Palace and the Tower of London. They all 
looked the same as they did in the picturebooks. 
The characters I read about in books come out 
from the pages and I become part of their story. 
Sad endings become happy ones. I meet all sorts 
of people I want to know, like presidents and 
movie stars and even gangsters. I like to dream. 
It's a time of the day when all my wishes come 
true. Maybe that's why I don't want to get up in 
the morning.
I always dream about love. I guess I'm roman­
tic. I usually dream that I'm in a fairy tale, and 
I'm the princess in distress. Don't I just look 
like her? I'm being imprisoned by the wicked 
witch (usually played by the old hag who babysits 
for me). Anyway, I get saved in the end by the 
prince who always rescues me by taking off the 
witch's robe and revealing her to be the ugly 
woman she is. Unfortunately, he always thinks 
_ I m someone else, so he decides not to marry me 
because he's saving himself for her.
Do you know that you snore when you sleep?
No, I didn't. I think I'll stay awake tonight and
try to find out.
I like to dream about fighting. I love to beat 
eople up. I dreamt that I tripped the wimp in 
y class. A real Class A jerk. I started across the 
hall and he was running by me. I just put my foot 
in front of him and he went flying. His books 
went all over and his papers were sailing across 
the sky. It was a riot!
I know I'm a little wimpy, but I'm no fool by 
any means. I dreamt that I beat the class bully 
up. I tripped him in the hallway at school. He was 
walking down the hall and I stuck my foot out.He 
went flying. His books went all over the place and 
his papers were sailing around the hall. It was a 
riot! And for once, I got my vengeance!
! Welcome back to FOLIO. For those of you 
¡who didn't know, or who might have forgotten
• over the summer, FOLI 0 is the 7AR TAN's cre­
ative section. We come out every week in a handy 
¦pull-out-and-save centerfold format, but we can't 
¦do it alone. FOLIO needs creative people to fill it 
Swith artwork, poetry, short fiction, satire, drama, 
!or whatever tickles your fancy. And becoming a
• FOLIO writer is so easy! Just follow these steps: 
¡1) Select a topic from the tentatively schedule, 
j very loose themes listed below.
12) Write or draw something.
•3) Submit it on or before the noted deadline, at 
noon. Submissions should be typed and double 
: spaced, and, in case of artwork, done in black-
| and-white. Just deliver the work to the TAR- 
| TAN mailbox at the Skibo information desk,
• or drop it off at the office, Skibo 50. We're al-
 •...............................................................................................
I dreamt that I met President Carter. There was 
a big peanut patch and we all went there for a 
holiday. The president was there lying in the 
bushes. He had a lot of papers with him and was 
bogged down with work, but he gave me a big 
smile and he even knew my name. Then we all 
drowned in Billy Beer and the dream was over.
I had this great dream last night. If only I 
could remember what it was.
I dream that one day I'm going to be President 
of the United States. I'm really looking forward 
to it. I want to go out and shake hands and pose 
for pictures and tell about all things I'm going to 
do, like get an arms treaty and curb inflation and 
rebuild the cities. And I'm really going to do it, 
too.
I want to be a housewife when I grow up. I'd 
like to have a job, but I think it's more important 
to be with your children when they're growing 
up.
I'm not getting married and I'm not having 
kids. I'm going to be a career journalist. I love 
reporting news and I'm good at it, mostly because 
I have such a big mouth and I'm so nosy. I know
ways happy to meet our contributing artists.
That's all there is to it! Anyone can have the 
glory of their name in print. You don't have to be 
a Creative Writing major or a Designer ...our 
pieces have come from every department and 
class... even grads... at CMU. So pick a topic or 
two or even more, and CREATE! It'll help keep 
you sane.
September 26: Anything Goes 
(Deadline: September 18) 
October 3: The Old CMU Grind 
(Deadline: September 25) 
October 17: Drama in Real Life 
(Deadline: October 9) 
October 31: Monsters I Have Known 
(Deadline: October 23) 
November 14: Free Form 
(Deadline: November 6)
everything that's going on. Getting the big scoop 
is where it's at for me. \
I'm on the school newspaper. We're holding a 
meeting this afternoon too. Our paper was real 
boring til we put in a gossip column. Now every­
one's yelling at us.
Why did you tell everyone I like Jeff?
It's true, isn't it?
Yes, but I don't want him to know it.
Get your stories straight, buddy. It 
was Lisa who cheated off Kathy, not Liza.
Did you have to tell everyone my real 
name is Grizelda?
I'm going to be a factory worker. It's not a 
lawyer or a doctor or anything glamorous like 
that, but I don't want to go to college. I'll be a 
good citizen, paying taxes, voting, and buying 
American products. I'll have a stereo, two cars, 
a big ranch house, hand tools and a van. I'll live 
a normal life. And that's enough.
I will be a famous actress someday. I'll star in 
my own Broadway show and win a Tony. Then 
I'll go on the Mike Douglas show, Tonight, and 
the Hollywood Squares. I'm gonna make the 
cover of every gossip magazine in the country 
'cause everyone'll want to know all about me. I'm 
going to have a handsome boyfriend, beautiful 
clothes, and a very racy life. ^
I want to be a bum, 'cause I like doing nothing.
I want to build a city. A big city which is per­
fect in every way. The streets will be wide and the 
buildings unusual and attractive. It'll be a better 
place to live because it's planned properly and 
because I didn't sell out on any of my plans for
the sake of turning a profit. Like cheapening the
quality of the homes I build, or rezoning. I want 
my city to be a fine place to live, offering good 
schools, and libraries, and museums, and theatres, 
movies, tennis, riding trails, golf, and the best 
amusement park in the country. I'm designing 
it to be pollution-free, so it truly is a better place 
for us to live.
I want to be a writer, so I'll have books to tell 
my thoughts to others, long after I'm gone.
 -........——.........................t
December 5: First Person Awards! ,
(Deadline: November 27)!
December 19: Holidays* 
(Deadline: December 11)|¦¦a
Oh, yes, one other thing. The Very Broad! 
Topics listed here are regular full-length eight! 
page FOLIOs. On the weeks in between, FOLIOl 
prints exceptional four-page exposees, articles,! 
cartoon features, puzzles, or whatever seems ap! 
propriate. If you have a major chef d' oeuvre - -! 
your masterpiece - - which is crying for it s print! '
debut, we're happy to see it, any time. Eight te­
ten typed pages just about fills one of our "spec ­
ial" FOLIOs, and gets you the immortality of the! 
printed page. J
To those of you who have contributed in the! 
past, and to those who are going to give it their! 
first try this year, just one more word. Thanks.! I
.....................................................................................-............. I

---------------------------------------------------

AB brings free concert to campus
country rock, at times reaching a peak that 
has never been equalled by any of their 
imitators or derivitives, including the 
Eagles.And now we are very pleased to an­
nounce that the Burritos are back together 
again, with several of the original members, 
and they will be performing Sunday, Sept. 
17 at 1 PM on Flagstaff Hill. And, what’s 
more, it’s free. These are the founders of 
country rock, the roots if you will, and,
The Forbes Street Gallery is one of a 
few totally student-operated art galleries 
in the country. Each week, a different ex­
hibit features the work of three students 
from the Departments of Art and Design. 
Occasional exhibits by the Departments of 
Drama and Architecture allow the gallery 
to expose the talents of a large part of the 
College of Fine Arts student body. Located 
on the CMU campus at 5200 Forbes 
Avenue, the Forbes Street Gallery is open 
from 12 PM to 4 PM Wednesday through 
Sunday and 7 PM to 9 PM on Wednesday 
and Thursday evenings. Openings are held 
weekly on Tuesday from 7 PM to 9 PM. 
At this time, the public is cordially invited 
to come meet the artists and enjoy the 
rctreshm'effts and entertainment. For 
further, information; call the Forbes 
Street Gallery at 578-2081.
September 12-17
Bruce Blackburn, Brian Jones, David 
Beckstrom, Jack Daly 
Design 
September 19-24
Gayle Jeker, Judy Sullivan, Paulette 
Rosner
Printmaking, Metal, Illustration
September 26-October 1
Carl West. Scott Willard. Winston 
Thomas
Sculpture. Drawing. Painting 
October 3-8
Susan Rubin, Eilen Mieczkowski. Mujgie 
Andur
Painting, Paper 
October 10-15
Kennv Brown, Mark Malmberg, Betsy 
Klonipus, Lindakay Rendina 
Ceramics; Drawing, Weaving. Fiber
Flagstaff makes study fun
by Joan Livitski
You heard about the concert this Sun­
day and enjoy the music of the Flying 
Burrito Brothers and/or Janathan Edwards, 
or are just looking forward to a lazy 
relaxed way to spend the afternoon. The 
only problem is . . . where in the world is 
Flagstaff Hill! If you ask this, you’re most 
likely a freshman, newly transferred, or 
one of those non-entities that are solely 
devoted to study.
If you haven’t discovered it on your 
own yet, fear not. If you could get them to 
admit it, most upper classmen would tell 
you it took them many a question to find 
out what they now know. And if they’re 
really honest, they’d probably tell you 
they still don’t know where everything is 
(including some classrooms).
But let’s deal with the problem at hand. 
Everyone else, or so it seems, is saying 
they re going out to Flagstaff to sun bathe, 
throw frisbees, meet friends or whatever, 
and you don’t know how to get there. Just 
head towards the library. No, this isn’t 
a ploy to get you to read the reserve arti­
cles of your course. Show some trust by 
walking accross the cut, past Doherty Hall, 
between Baker and the library, then cross 
the street and parking lot, stopping to 
check both ways (Security might not stop).
Now if you look for a dirt trodden path 
that appears ideal for mountain goats but
Tickets for main stage perfomances by 
the Department of Drama must be obtain 
eJ at the rimes announced in the TART AS 
and in campus calendars and on bulletin
boards One ticket will be issued to each 
student upon presentation of an I.D. curd. 
Only ci limited number of tickets /s avail'
treacherous for students, you re nearly 
there. A boost from a friend or the tug of 
a strong arm will put you where you want 
to be.
No, it ain’t much, but then I never said 
it was. Give it time. Wait for the leaves to 
turn from fading green to brilliant reds 
and yellows as Fall crispens the air and 
romance invades your life. Or catch the 
First cascades of snow and see it while it’s 
still white.
Before a winter evening’s trip to Flags­
taff be sure to make that all traditional 
trip to the Grill or the cafeteria. Whether 
it’s the enticing thought of hot cocoa in 
the tum-tum or the lure of food service 
trays, everyone is bound to gather there. 
All evening, and sometimes through to 
early morning, bundled students follow in 
train formations to end up in piles of arms 
and legs. Then there are those courageous 
individuals who solo down the slopes, 
swallowing inhibitions, all just to be able 
to say they’ve been “traying.”
But then the sun and heat of Spring 
melts the snow, dries up the slush, and 
grows the grass. Sun bathers and frisbee 
throwers defend their turfs while loners 
with a guitar or flute and maybe a friend to 
sing along, serenade the idyllic crowds. 
And the nice part of it is, that if you’ve got 
too much work to just play, Flagstaff 
makes studying seem that much nicer.
October 19-28 
THE SERVANT OF TWO MASTERS
November 30-December 9 
THE TROJAN WOMEN
March 15-24 
M1SAI ! IANCF
April 19-28 
THh WINTER'S TAJLH
by Benny Profane
In the beginning there were the Byrds. 
Uid they begat an album, and it was called 
Sweetheart of the Rodeo, and it was good 
ndeed. Verily this was the creation of 
vhat later became known as country-rock 
ind its prophet was called the L. A. Cow- 
joy and, for a time, it was good.
Now, a decade later, the L. A. sound has 
jecome a staple of FM programmers and, 
except for a few rare bands such as Little 
Feat, it is effectively dead as a creative 
force. Granted, the Eagles and Miss 
Ronstadt are still twitching,but their music 
has been reduced to a formula for produc­
ing hit singles: a dash of country, a pinch 
of rock and roll, a few insipid lyrics and a 
massive dose of overproduction and, pres­
to, a new million seller. But it wasn’t al­
ways this way.
After Sweetheart the Byrds split. Gram 
Parsons and Chris Hillman went their own 
way, determined to find a successful blend 
of traditional country and western and the 
newfangled electric rock and roll. The re­
sulting band was called the Flying Burrito 
Brothers. Along with pedal steel wizard 
Sneeky Pete Kleinow, drummer Michael 
Clarke and bassist Chris Ethridge and, later, 
Bernie Leadon, Hillman and Parsons set the 
standard for country rockers everywhere 
both in musical quality and excessive live- 
I styles.
After Parson’s tragic death in 1972 the 
> Burritos went through numerous transfor­
mations. Rick Roberts replaced Parsons as 
1 lead vocalist and contributed some excel-II lent tunes. Byron Berline and members of 
Country Gazette sat in on a couple of al­
bums lending a touch of acoustic bluegrass. 
f But through all their incarnations, the 
| Burritos have produced consistently Fine
unlike what gets played on the radio today, 
they are very good.
Appearing with ihe Burrito Brothers is 
singer/songwriter Jonathan Edwards, a con­
sistently lively and entertaining performer 
in the line of Jesse Winchester and Steve 
Goodman. Remember “We’re gonna lay 
around the shanty, mama/and put a good 
buzz on”? No? Well, you missed one of
the most memorable party anthems of the
early seventies, right up there with “I got 
stoned and I missed it” and Sangria Wine. 
The Flying Burrito Brothers and Jonathan 
Edwards, perfect music for a September af­
ternoon. So, get a blanket, copious quanti­
ties of your favorite swill, and a member of 
the sex of youi choice and get out to
Flagstaff this Sunday at 1 PM for what 
promises to be one hell of a good time. Be­
sides, you can’t beat the price.
Gallery schedule announced

---------------------------------------------------

page 14—TARTAN—September 12,1978
Drama faculty performs for students
The Good Doctor, and directed the season 
opener, Absurd Person Singular.
Elisabeth Orion plays Edgar’s tormented 
and vindictive wife, Alice. Earlier this 
season, Ms. Orion played the lead in the 
CMTC production of The Killing of Sister 
George. Her acting credits include seasons 
with the Meadow Brook Theatre Company, 
and several repertory companies in Great 
Britain.
Michael Pierce plays Kurt, a man sent 
to direct a quarantine station on the island, 
who unwittingly becomes caught up in 
the emotional turmoil of his cousin’s 
marriage. Pierce is a familiar presence to
CMTC playgoers, having played the narra­
tor in the last production, The Good 
Doctor and played Sidney in the season 
opener, Absurd Person Singular. Pierce’s 
extensive credits include several seasons 
with the Guthrie Theatre.
Two supporting roles will be played by 
seniors in the CMU Drama Department: 
Laurie Klatcher and Catherine Casey.
The Dance of Death is directed by 
Walter Eysselinck, the Managing and 
Artistic Director of the CMU Theatre 
Company, who also heads the Drama 
Department. Prior to coming to CMU, 
Eysselinck was Director of the Roval
Flemish Theatre in Ghent, Belgium, and 
previously, Director of the Gardner 
Centre for the Arts at the University of 
Sussex in England. Several of his plays 
and adaptations have been produced in 
Belgium, Great Britain and the U.S.
The Dance of Death has a preview 
performance on Tuesday, September 12 
and runs through September 23. For ticket 
information or reservations, call the CMTC 
Box Office at 621-1326.
The University Oratory
of
The Holy Spirit Parish
7:00 P.M. SATURDAY ANTICIPATED FOLK MASS...................Hunt Library Multipurpose Room (Enter Frew St.
10:30 A.M. SUNDAY MORNING FOLK MASS...............................Hunt Library Multipurpose Room (Enter Frew St.
12:00 Noon SOLEMN SUNDAY LITURGY...................................Heinz Memorial Chapel
12:30 Noontime WEEKDAY MASS (Monday - Friday)..................CMU's Chapel (Skibo 39)
CMU UNDERGRADUATES AND FRESHMEN:
Come to the Oratory for a Celebration of Mass followed by Buffet 
Supper. If you are searching for a better understanding o the Catholic 
faith within a warm and friendly atmosphere, then join us each Thursday 
night for Mass or para-liturgy (prayer or Bible study).
MASS - BUFFET - DISCUSSION: THURSDAY 
SEPTEMBER 14.1978 6:30 P.M.
THE ORATORY: 4040 BIGELOW BLVD- 
(Across from Schenley High School)
OR JOIN US FOR
Charismatic Prayer Group —Mondays 8:15 P.M. — Oratory 
Genesis II — Coming Sept. 26 at 8:00 P.M.
Graduate Students — Wednesdays at 8:00 P.M.
CMU Course. The Holocaust. Wednesdays 7-9:00 P.M. 
Folk Group Practice — Sundays 9:00 A.M.
Retreats, etc..., etc.......etc...
To check times, places, and other information: Call
Father Bob English, CMU Chaplain 
Sister Bernadette Young, C.D.P.
(412)681-3181.
Mass Schedule For the Fall Semester :
The CMU Theatre Company will present 
its first fall professional production, 
August Strindberg’s towering drama The 
Dance of Death, from September 12 
through 23 at the Kresge Theatre on 
campus.
Strindberg’s Dance of Death, written in
1901, is a sardonically funny drama of 
marital discord. The production is based 
on a new translation by Michael Meyer. 
The action occurs on an island fortress 
off the Swedish coast where Edgar, an 
army captain, and his wife Alice are on 
the verge of their silver wedding anniver- 
sary. Her cousin Kurt, arriving after along
absence, finds himself drawn into their 
long festering love-hate relationship.
The three central characters are por­
trayed by a trio of veteran actors, also 
members of the Drama faculty;
James Baffico has the pivotal role of 
Edgar, commander of the island fortress. 
Baffico appeared earlier this season in
THE ROMAN CATHOLIC UNIVERSITY PARISH of the Diocese of Pittsburgh was created 
in 1967 to meet the special needs and aspirations of a seeking and learning community. Through 
worship, study, prayer, and a wide program of other activities, The University Oratory seeks to 
serve the students, faculty , and staff of Camegie-Melion University. This is YOUR Parish and 
represents YOUR effort to build a Christian Community!!!
In rehearsal, Elizabeth Orion, Michael Pierce and James Baffico, members of the CMU drama 
faculty, prepare for the Carnegie-Mellon Theatre Company's production of August Strindberg's
The Dance of Death.

---------------------------------------------------

EVENTS
THEATRE
The CMU Theatre Company will present 
its first professional fall production of 
Strindberg’s The Dance of Death. It will 
run from September 12 through 23 in the 
Kresge Theatre on Campus. Tickets are 
$7.50, $6.50 and $5.50. For more informa­
tion, call the CMU box office at 578-2407.
Pittsburgh Playhouse, 222 Craft Ave., will 
open its season September 16 with Private 
Lives at 8 PM. The show will run thru Oc­
tober 1. For reservations call 621-4445.
Theatre Express will present The Unlit 
Corridor on September 14, 15, 16, 21, 22, 
23, 24, 28, 29, 30 and October 1. Student 
passes are available. For more information 
call 621-5454.
Finnegan’s Wake will open Pittsburgh 
Laboratory Theatre’s season. The stage 
version of James Joyce’s novel, adapted by 
Leon Katz will run from August 25 thru 
September 30. For ticket and time infor­
mation call 621-2876. Discounts are avail­
able for students and senior citizens mak­
ing tickets $3 or $2 off the regualr price. 
The King and I will be staged by the Mc­
Keesport Little Theatre on September 15, 
16, 17, 22, 23, 24, 29, 30, and October 1, 
6, 7, and 8. Reservations are necessary so 
call 673-1180.
Camelot Productions will present Pippin 
beginning September 15 thru October 15 
at Plaza Theatre, 4765 Liberty Ave. Perfor­
mances are Fridays and Saturdays at 8:30 
PM and Sundays at 7:30 PM. For reserva­
tions and ticket information call 683-7770.CINEMA
AB will present Swept Away September 
14 at 6, 8, and 10 PM in DH 2210. Admis­
sion is if.75 with ID and $1 without. 
Black Sunday , the September 15 AB film, 
will be shown at 6:30, 9:15 and 11:45 PM 
with a 2 PM Saturday matinee in DH2210. 
Admission is $1 with ID and $1.25 with­
out.
SDC will present Romeo and Juliet on 
September 16 in DH 2210. The film is free 
to students. Show times are 6, 8:30 and 
11.
The Pittsburgh Playhouse’s Film Reper­
tory consists this week of Network, Sep­
tember 12; The Sailor Who Fell From 
Grace, September 13; Nights of Cabiria, 
September 14; The Ruling Class, Sep­
tember 15; Equus, September 16; The 
Front Page, September 17; and The 
Story of Adele H., September 18. Two 
showings nightly are presented with the 
first at 7:30 and the second generally at 
9:30 or a bit later. All seats are $2.
The Young and the Damned by Luis Buñ­
uel will be the next film featured in the 
Carnegie Institute Director’s Series. It will 
be shown in the Lecture Hall at 8 PM 
on September 14. Admission is $1.00.
Saturday, September 16, will bring Caval­
cade as the next film in the Classics Series. 
It can be seen at 2:30 PM in the Museum 
of Arts Theatre with $1 admission.
Pittsburgh Filmmakers, 205 Oakland 
Ave., will show Japanese Avant-Garde 
Films. Part I will be presented September 
19 and Part II on the 20th. Both showings 
are at 8 PM with admission $1 and $1.50 
respectively.
On September 16, the free films in the 
Carnegie Museum of Natural History will 
begin. Films are scheduled for 1 PM in the 
Lecture Hall.
ART
Forbes Street Gallery will have its first 
opening this year on September 12 at 7 
PM. Featured artists will be B. Blackburn, 
B. Jones, D. Beckstrom, and J. Daly. All 
will be displaying their design works.
Through September 24, Photographs by 
Lewis Hine will be on display in the Muse­
um of Art, Carnegie Institute.
HEWLETT-PACKARD
INTRODUCES PROFESSIONAL 
SCIENTIFIC CALCULATORS 
FOR A STUDENTS BUDGET.
The Hewlett-Packard SERIES #E introduces 
a new level of accuracy, Larger, Brighter, 
Easy-to-Read LED displays, commas 
separate thousands ... built-in diagnostic 
systems tell you when you have performd 
an incorrect operation. . .why it was in­
correct. . . and if the calculator is not 
working properly. . .rechargeable bat­
teries. . .low battery warning light.
THE H-P 31E 
SCIENCE/ENGINEERING
Trigonometric, exponential and 
math functions. Metric con­
versions. Fixed and scientific 
display modes. Full 10-digit 
display. 4 separate user 
memories.
See 1:i rst o4fali1i hei3li. s’ n1 bll 
di.l'i v3i.u4lc e143i. . . A:i mny143R 
b71:43'Oic Ti6li11FCnygn3c vinli3
DIAL 781-1308 for further information
TYPEWRITER
STORESLESLIE DRESBOLD
Our rin3i.1 Store 0. 48lR S ­l4yg. w34f 1:i onfa7. pSS e4k o3n', 
e1kk m43ui. b o3n', .. near Cnan $4i.
•Stores in Sharpsburg, Downtown, Monroeville Mall, North Hills 
Village, South Hills Village • Monroeville and South Hills Open 
Sunday 12 to 5.
The Poster Gallery in Shadyside will 
present an exhibit of the works of David 
Goines. The show will open Friday, Sep­
tember 22nd with times being 11 to 5:30 
PM, Monday through Saturday, with Wed­
nesdays open till 9 PM. The gallery is lo­
cated on Walnut St. above Pappa Joe's. For 
more information call 682-2841.
MUSIC
AB Concert Committee will sponsor A 
Day at the Park featuring the Flying 
Burrito Brothers and Jonathan Edwards in 
a free concert September 17 at 1 PM on 
Flagstaff Hill.
The Pittsburgh Symphony will present 
Andre Previn conducting with Margaret 
Price, soprano, and Gretchen Van Holsen, 
harpist, featured September 14, 15, and 
17. Attendance is by subscription only. 
For more information, call 281-8185.
A total of $15,000 is available to young 
composers from the 27th Annual BMI 
Awards. Entrants must be under 26 years 
of age on December 31, 1978. No limita­
tions are established as to instrumentation, 
stylistic consideration or length of work
submitted. Students may enter no more 
than one composition, which need not 
have been composed during the year of 
entry. The competition closes February 15, 
1979. Official rules and entry blanks are 
available from James G. Ray, Jr., Director, 
BMI Awards to Student Composers, 
Broadcast Music Inc., 40 West 57th Street, 
New York, New York 10019.
Electric Light Orchestra will appear 
September 25 at Civic Arena. For ticket 
information, call 471-1312.
MISC.
The American Dance Ensemble will be 
featured in a Studio Concert at Tree Hall, 
Aliquippa on September 15 at 8 PM. A do­
nation of $1.50 is requested. For informa­
tion, call Mary Ramsay at 624-4395 or 
624-4396.
The Ice Capades will appear at the Civic 
Arena September 14 to 24. Admission 
ranges from $4 to $7. Times vary, so call 
the box office at 471-1312.
The International Poetry Forum will 
open its season on September 27 at 8 PM 
with Wendell Berry. The reading will be 
held at the Carnegie Lecture Hall. Tickets 
are $2.25 for students or $15.00 for seasor 
subscriptions.
Come join the English Country Dancers 
beginning September 17 from 7 to 9:30 in 
Room 524 of the Pitt Student Union or 
contact Allison Thompson 963-9495.
The Creative Recycling Center will 
present a prize of $300.00 for the best 
design of educational toy, play equipment, 
game, craft kit, or teaching aid made from 
discarded material. Entry deadline is 
October 11. Entry blanks and contest rules 
are available from the Creative Recycling 
Center, 4616 Liberty Ave. in Bloomfield 
or call 687-0900. The center also offers 
craft classes.
This year’s Symphony Fashion Gala 
will be staged in Heinz Hall in two perfor­
mances on September 21 at 1:30 and 8:30 
PM. Highlighted will be the fall collection 
of designer Oscar de la Renta. The event is 
co-sponsored by the Women’s Association 
of the Pittsburgh Symphony Society and 
Joseph Horne Co. Proceeds benefit the 
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra. For 
ticket information call 281-8185.
iRIP THEM OFF!
With
THE RIPOFF BOOK
66 Super Discount Coupons
MCDONALD’S 
GEORGE AIKEN’S 
UNCLE CHARLIE’S 
WENDY’S 
HEADS TOGETHER
BURGER KING 
SUBWAY 
WOODEN KEG 
SWEET WILLIAM’S 
FLO’S
PLUS MANY, MANY MORE PLACES
Save up to $ZOO°° Only $3"
Get yours now at the 
Bookstore and Entropy 
Sponsored by Lambda Sigma

---------------------------------------------------

page 16—TARTAN—September 12, 1978
Ensemble dances into Pittsburgh
The American Dance Ensemble of Point 
Park College announced that the company 
will create a second season at the Pitts­
burgh Playhouse beginning in October.
The new season which opens in October 
will include four major productions offered 
to audiences on a subscription basis. The 
first production, October 5, 6. 7 and 8
will be headlined by Ruth Page’s famed 
Carmina Burana.
Also featured on this program will be 
Joplinana choreographed by Douglas Bent/ 
to the popular music of Scott Joplin; and 
Tarantella a light-hearted Italian character 
ballet restaged by the company's own Ann 
Richardson.
Returning to the American Dance 
Ensemble for the second season will be 
the company’s permanent guest artists, 
Thierry Dorado, Alexander Filipov, and
Jordeen Ivanov all well know to Pitts­
burghers for their sterling performances 
with the Ensemble during the past season.
Also guesting with the company will be 
Alexander Agadzlianov. Patricia Klekovic 
of C hicago Ballet, and Gennadi Vostrikov, 
also from Chicago Ballet.
For subscription information, call the 
American Dance Ensemble at 391-4100 
ext.412 or the Pittsburgh Playhouse.
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40ACMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CALL 578-2921
Snatch the pebble*
B*glnn«rs' clauti start Thursday Soptombor 14.
Practlco Is hald In THIstla Hall. Oym, ovary Tuosday and Thursday. 6i30 pm . and Saturday. 11x30 am.
The CMU Karate Club
The odds are against you.
You’ve got to light 
all those distractions 
on your mind.
Chores Worries Deadlines.
Gnawing away at your concentration. 
Pulling you in a thousand diiierent directions.
Instead oi one
The sad part is, you've lived 
with these distractions so long, 
you probably don’t realize 
i>ow much they’re hurting you.
At the CMU Karate Club, 
we’ll help you tc push aside 
the mental chatter; 
and to luse your mind and body 
into a single responsive unit. 
We’ll show you a side oi yourself 
you might never otherwise know. 
We oiler 70U the chance. 
Roach for it.

---------------------------------------------------

September 12,1978—TARTAN—page 17
0CO RAO 0*0 LASTS
'ENTERt CHS EEX CLXENTER ?
a a
Bonafide CMU courses - Basketry & Weaving, Sewing?
20% off TOLKIEN 
20% off ARGUS 
|50% off All other posters and prinl 
Sale ends September 16th 
765-3300
by Linda Deak
Do you ever gripe and groan about 
the departmental course offerings or 
those “ridiculous” electives that you 
have to take at CMU? Put aside your 
Add-Drop cards and contemplate taking 
such required courses as Machine Shop, 
Purification of Water and Sewage, Hy­
giene I, Sewing, Housekeeping and 
Laundry, Advanced Typewriting for 
Commerical Engineers, Acetylene Weld­
ing, English for Foreign Students, 
Group Work I, Advanced Scientific 
French and Horticulture.
The strange sounding courses can ac­
tually be found in the general catalogues 
which date back to Carnegie Mellon’s 
humble beginning as Carnegie Technical 
Schools. At that time, four schools of­
fered both day and night courses at the
cost of $20 and $5 per year respectively 
to City of Pittsburgh residents.
From the School of Applied Science, 
one could obtain a commercial, mining 
or sanitary engineering degree, in addi­
tion to those currently offered in CIT. 
However, curricula were a bit different 
for 1908 engineering students, it.
Mechanical engineers took Machine 
Shop; electrical engineers, High Tension 
Transmission Lines; chemical engineers, 
Refrigeration Pumps and Compressors; 
and civil engineers had to suffer through 
Railroad Engineering and Practical As­
tronomy and Geodesy.
For those in the School of Applied 
Science, there was also Camp Louise 
Carnegie, a 750 acre engineering camp 
located on the Allegheny River where 
required field work was completed,
usually during the summer term.
The School of Applied Industries 
prepared “men to become teachers in 
manual, vocational and industrial train­
ing,” offering such courses as Carbure- 
tion and Ignition, Storage Batteries, and 
Forge Shop.
In addition to architecture, the 
School of Applied Design had a depart­
ment of interior decoration. There was 
also a two year “Normal Art” option, 
which entailed “normal” creations in 
ceramics and jewelry.
Wearing a T-shirt reading MMCSG de­
noted that a young woman was attend­
ing the Margaret Morrison Carnegie Col­
lege for Girls. This institution was de­
signed solely for the “education and 
training of women for the home, and 
for commercial and professional posi-
tions requiring technical knowledge.” 
Sophomore women had a diverse semes­
ter, which included Sewing, Physics and 
Hygiene. Basketry and Weaving was a 
bonafide course, as well as Embroidery 
and Lace Design.
Those females who viewed our re­
quired freshman physical with distaste 
would have thrown themselves from 
Warner before facing the school’s policy 
which deemed “the physical develop­
ment of each girl is watched and thor­
ough physical exams are given at the be­
ginning and end of each school year... 
the results are carefully compared...and 
brought to the attention of Faculty.”
Twenty years later, as CMU sprouted 
new additions, the catalogues continued 
to contain surprising courses. The ’48 
departmental course listing for the Col­
lege of Fine Arts included Social Orient­
ation for drama majors. The AMS de­
partment also required Government and 
Business in ’48, a course which is still 
being taught (not by the same prof).
There was also a strict physical edu­
cation requirement for many years. 
Seemingly designed to train those for 
the Olympic decathlon, the course 
even included table tennis, square danc­
ing, water polo and folk dancing.
If you think your present courseload 
is heavy, could you have handled the 
eight courses per semester taken by 
freshmen in earlier years?
Still depressed by your schedule 
or unmoved by that nine unit elective? 
You have a week to pour through the 
schedule of classes. Even though you 
won’t find the delectable Cookery I 
listed, the ‘78 schedule will offer some 
consolation—you’re not the one who 
has to take Reactor Neutron Physics!
DISCOUNT RCWBS & PLANTS
4705 CENTRE A/ENUE IN OAKLAND 
PITTSBURGH, RA. 15213 412-6874200
HEWLETT-PACKARD 
INTRODUCES PROFESSIONAL CALCULATORS FOR A STUDENT'S DUDGET.
THE PRICE OF EXCELLENCE 
NOW STARTS AT $60?
They’re here. Hewlett-Packard’s new Series E. Five 
professional calculating instruments designed for a 
student’s needs and budget.
NEW FEATURES.
Easy-to-read display. Larger, brighter LED display 
with commas to separate thousands.
Built-in diagnostic systems. Tells you: 1) when you’ve 
performed an incorrect operation; 2) why it was 
incorrect; 3) if the calculator isn’t working properly. 
Accuracy. Improved algorithms give you confidence 
that your answers are more precise and complete.
FOR SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING.
The HP-31E—Scientific. $60? Trigonometric, expo­
nential and math functions. Metric conversions. Fixed 
and scientific display modes. Full 10-digit display.
4 separate user memories.
The HP-32E—Advanced Scientific with Statistics. 
$80? All HP-31E functions plus hyperbolics, compre­
hensive statistics. More math and metric capabilities. 
Decimal degree conversions ENG, SCI and FIX dis­
play modes. 15 user memories.
The HP-33E—Programmable Scientific. $100? Scien­
tific, math and statistics with programmability. 
Editing, control and conditional keys. 49 lines of fully 
merged key-codes. 8 user memories.
FOR BUSINESS AND FINANCE.
The HP-37E—Business Management. $75? Basic 
business/finance. Gives Present Value, Payments and 
Future Value calculations simultaneously. Discounts,
%’s, mark-ups, and amortization schedules. Statistics 
with trend-line forecasting. 5 financial and 7 user 
memories.
The HP-38E—Advanced Financial Programmable. 
$120? Solves routine and complex problems at the 
touch of a key—no previous programming experience 
necessary. Internal Rate of Return and Net Present 
Value for up to 1,980 cash flows in 20 groups. 2000- 
year calendar. 5 financial and 20 user memories.
Up to 99 program lines.
HEWLETT-PACKARD IS WITHOUT EQUAL.
All Series E calculators use RPN logic exclusively.
If you’ve never tried it you’re in for a big surprise.
It lets you solve problems the way you naturally 
do in your mind. Straightforward. Logical. No worry­
ing about complicated hierarchies or parentheses. 
RPN is the shortest possible distance between the 
question and the answer.
SEE FOR YOURSELF.
To help you select the calculator that’s right for you, 
we’ve prepared a booklet entitled, “The Student’s 
Choice...the Logical Choice!’ Pick up a free copy at 
your bookstore or nearest Hewlett-Packard dealer 
when you stop bv to see Series E. For the nearest 
dealer CALL TOLL-FREE 800-648-4711 except from 
Hawaii or Alaska. In Nevada call 800-992-5710.
While you’re there, be sure to see our advanced 
programmable HP-29C and HP-19C with printer and 
HP-67 mag-card programmable.
Do it soon. A Hewlett-Packard professional 
calculator starting at just $60* is something you 
can’t afford to pass up.
HEWLETT M PACKARD'ML
Dept 0000, 1000 N E Circle Blvd . Corvallis. OR 97330
‘Suggested retail price excluding applicable state and local taxes 
— Continental U.S.A.. Alaska and Hawaii 
Displays are photographed separately to simulate 
actual appearance

---------------------------------------------------

page 18—TARTAN—September 12,1978
Fraternities combat
"Animal House" image
It’s the beginning of the school year 
again, the time when incoming freshmen 
are anxious to find out if college life is 
really everything they’ve been hearing 
about all their lives. Many of the stories 
they have heard about college life, and 
fraternities in particular, are twisted and 
exaggerated, to say the least. With the 
release of Animal House (which is appar­
ently required viewing for college students 
this year), more freshmen than ever are 
coming to CMU with preconceived notions 
that are not always favorable.
Over the past few years, the number of 
students pledging fraternities had been on 
a steady decline. The United Fraternal 
Organization(UFO) is taking steps to re­
verse that trend, and show freshmen that 
frats are not necessarily “animal houses”.
The man in charge of the new program 
is Andy Steinman. Last Thursday night, 
under his supervision, ten brothers from 
each of CMU’s twelve fraternities got 
together in the Wherret Room. From there,
they were divided into forty groups of 
three , each of the three being from a dif­
ferent fraternity. Each group was given a 
list of freshmen and their room numbers. 
Before long, nearly every freshman on 
campus had been visited by one of these 
groups and had gotten the chance to talk 
with some brothers about what frat life 
was really like. They were also offered the 
chance to come by the fraternities and find 
out for themselves.
Judging from the turnout at the meeting 
Thursday, the fraternities were willing to 
work together toward a common goal. 
Whether this program will reverse the 
downward swing remains to be seen. The 
next few weeks should tell.
“We’re just asking people to give us a 
try,” said Steinman. “By giving them a 
cross-section of fraternity men, we hope to 
show that not all fraternities are alike and 
there can be something for everyone. 
I’m optimistic that we can get the frater­
nities to really work together on this.”
CMU alumnus and Peace Corps volunteer Marintha (Mindy) Kimport has been working in Mal­
aysia for nearly two years helping the Drainage and Irrigation Department refine its computerized 
flood forecasting procedures.
She is pictured with a Malaysian technician in the department's hydrology branch. Miss Kimport 
of Montoursville, earned her B.S. in civil and environmental engineering in I976.
Kosher dining plan offered
Opening this fall semester with newly 
renovated and modernized kosher dining 
facilities, B’nai B’rith Hillel is launching an 
all-out campaign to promote the obser­
vance of Kashrut by Jewish students on 
our area college campuses.
The B’nai B’rith Hillel kosher dining 
facility is under Rabbinic supervision 
and opens its expanded program this fall 
with a variety of attractive kosher food 
plans at nominal prices.
The modernization and renovation of 
the Hillel kitchen was made possible by 
contributions from both B’nai B.rith and 
the United Jewish Federation of Greater 
Pittsburgh. The B’nai B’rith Hillel facilities 
chaiperson for the project is Mr. Wilbert 
Segal. The dining center manager is Mrs. 
Ann Young.
According to Rabbi Joseph H. Levine,
B’nai B’rith Hillel Director, a new ten- 
point program of advertising and publicity 
has been launched to attract more students 
to the observance of Kashrut. This 
campaign includes personal letters to the 
parents, solicitation of Pittsburgh Jewish 
community cooperation, word-of-mouth 
publicity, posters on campus, personal
letters to incoming students, and many 
other features. Special arrangements with 
the universities permit students to “sign 
off’ their campus dining plans at no extra 
charge if they choose the B’nai B’rith 
Hillel plan.
Further information may be obtained 
by calling the B’nai B’rith Hillel office at 
621-8875.
Coming next week, a new Feature 
Column!
-GRUB OPENING Sep!. 14 - 4G1SIIM 8110,fpll. 15211 
Mat theatre spice!THE UNLIT
CORUDOR
•y William Turner 
Sept 9 - Oct I
An outrageous vampire vaudeville, part comic opera, part 
surrealistic fantasy, funny and delightfully bizarre.
“Frantically funny.” Adelphi University.
^nwitannumwwwwuwtitwimwmiiiwniiwwHiiitniiiiiiiiHiiininiiHHiHmntwiimHiHiiiiwiwtimfitiwmii
mm
B N Al B’RITH HILLEL HAPPENINGS j
Isroel Programming Meeting* Wed. Sept. 13 7 p.m. j
Isroeli Dancing* Wed. Sept. 13 8 p.m. (
Special Shabbat Dinner and Services* s
Friday Sept. 15 5:30 p.m. - {
(Dinner only $2.50 regularly $4.00) Call for reservations. i
Lunch with Rabbi Richard Oiapin • Hebrew Union College £
Monday Sept. 18 Noon* |
* * Kosher Lunch and Dinner served Mon. thru Fri. * * 1
Deli Day every Thursday. Call for more information. |
B'nai B’rith Hillel 315 S. Bellefield (across fromHeinz Chapel) Phone: 621-8875 \
"SAVE ME A REFRIGERATOR!"
WE'VE JUST RECIEVED AN ADDITIONAL SHIPMENT OF BRAND NEW RENTAL REFRIGERATORS. 
MANY ARE ALREADY RESERVED. ORDER YOURS TODAY SO THAT YOU DON'T MISS OUT.
Refrigerators have freezers, temperature controls, and tall bottle storage.
Perfect for study break snacks or laying in supplies for a real party.
$50.00 rental fee includes free delivery in the fall and pickup in the Spring.
If your unit breaks down, we rush you a replacement within 24 hours - no charge.
CALL864-0721 FOR IMMEDIATE DELIVERY

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
Booters expect good year
American Keith Hordat. The high scoring 
striker led the team’s offensive output last 
year and needs only one point (either a 
goal or an assist) to break the school re­
cord.
While Hordat is carrying the offensive 
load, the defense will be anchored 
by fullbacks Harry Brunache and Tom 
Binnie who is an All-Conference player. 
They will be assisted by co-captain half­
back John Hunt and probable starting 
goalie Dan Carlan. Carlan is presently the 
leading candidate for the position, however, 
Coach Klein is still undecided.
This year’s enthusiastic 35-man squad 
opens the season on the road against John- 
Carroll. The team then travels to Pitt and 
Case-Western before returning home on 
October 3 against Pitt and Johnstown. 
They will play 11 matches this year op­
posed to the 9 match schedule of last 
year. According to Coach Klein, their 
stiffest competition will come from Beth­
any College, Case-Western Reserve and 
Allegheny College.
The matches this year should provide 
the CMU students with plenty of excite­
ment as mfeh fan support is expected and 
will certainly be appreciated by this year’s 
team.
Runners work 
toward PAC title
The pre-season picture for this year’s 
CMU cross-country squad looks to be 
very bright with a possible President’s 
Conference team championship on the 
horizon. The team’s chances of capturing 
the title lock to be the best in years ac­
cording to head coach Gary Meckley. The 
Tartans aren’t a shoe-in, however, and 
Meckley predicts a four team race includ­
ing perrenial champs Case Western, last 
year’s runner-up, John Carroll, the Dave 
Wottle coached Bethany squad and the 
enthusiastic Tartans.
Coach Meckley’s optimism stems from 
the depth of the team with over twenty 
men challenging for the top seven spots. 
The expected Tartan front runner is last 
year’s team MVP and All-Conference 
finisher Dario Donatelli. Among those 
challenging Donatelli for the top spot 
Coach Meckley expects senior Steve 
Falloon and junior transfer Craig Wool- 
heater to head the pack. Close on their 
heels should be senior Larry Gordon, 
juniors Jim Biery, Barry Vukoder and 
Bernie Ivanschultz and freshman Josh 
Medvin and Scott Kidd.
The CMU’s harriers next see action 
when they travel to Westminster tomor­
row. A win would be the one hundredth 
victory for Meckley coached teams as he 
enters his tenth year here at CMU.
l.M. Board to meet
The first Intramural Sports board meet- 
ting will be held today at 4:30 PM in the 
IM office in the gym building. Any inter­
ested persons are invited to attend. Mem­
bers of the board are ATO, PLP, BTP, 
DTD, ZBT, TZ, Dorms, Grads, Managers 
Club, Officials Club, At-Large, and the 
president Bob McNale.
Touch football rosters (min. 7, may. 15) 
are due at the beginning of the meeting. IM 
tennis (commissioner is Dave Chandler) 
and golf (matches are played on weekends) 
rosters are also due at 4:30. Everyone in 
the CMU community is encouraged to par­
ticipate.
Catch the intramural director Earl J. 
Birdy on TV September 16 as he officiates 
the Penn State-Ohio State confrontation in 
Columbus, Ohio.
by Dave Brandwene
This year’s CMU soccer team is expec­
ting to improve on last year’s 4—5 record. 
Along with a good crop of freshmen which 
includes fullback Bob Messmer and mid­
fielder Mark Alterio, second-year coach 
Gene Klein has every starter returning 
which should make his job much easier. 
Among the returnees is potential All-
How to tell jour friends you’re taking Army ROTC.
First of all there’s no reason 
to be defensive about it because 
Army ROTC has a lot of good 
things going for it. So you might 
start by telling your friends that 
you’re under no military obliga­
tion your first two years of 
the program.
Then go on to mention that 
if you do decide to take the final 
two years, you’ll be earning $100 
a month, up to ten months a year.
Tell them it only takes about
3 to 5 hours a wreek. And at most 
schools that’s the only time you 
have to wear a uniform.
And tell them no matter 
what you decide, yoti’ll have 
background in practical leader­
ship that will give you a better 
chance at almost any career.
Tell them that mavbe they 
just ought to take a look at it 
themselves.
Army ROTC. The more 
you look at it, the better it looks.
Army RO I C.
Call: 578-2204 
or
578-2205 
or visit 
Military Science Dept. 
Margaret Morrison 
LevelB

---------------------------------------------------

CMUFEST
A terrific week of events 
sponsored by Activities Board
Monday, September 11
Plant Sale 10-4 Highlander Room
Videotapes 1-5 Skibo Lobby
Tuesday, September 12
Plant Sale 10-4 Highlander Room
Videotapes 1-5 Skibo Lobby
Wednesday, September 13 
Plant Sale 10-4 Highlander Room 
Videotapes 1-5 Skibo Lobby
Thursday, September 14
Coffeehouse - Michael Jerling - 9:30 p.m.
Free Wherrett Room 
Film - Swept Away 6,8,10 DH2210
75<t w/i.d. $1.00 w/o 
Videotapes 1-5 Skibo Lobby
Friday, September 1 5
TGIF - "Battle of the DJ's with WRCT &
Andre King & Kevin Butko 
9-1 am Skibo Ballroom refreshments
Film - Black Sunday 6:30,9:15,11:45 i|
$1.00 w/i.d. $1.25 w/o i.d. DH2210 
Videotapes 1-5 Skibo Lobby
Saturday, September 16
Film - Black Sunday 2pm DH2210
Sunday, September 17 
A Day in the Park + The Flying 
Burrito Brothers and Jonathan Edwards 
Free Concert 2 pm Flagstaff Hill
funded by Activities Fee
