Oblongata Papers 
Discovered 
In EH RoyalaPrt 
baa Page 3
Basketball Season 
Around 
The Corner-— 
See Page 5
VOL. 46—No. 10CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGYTUES., NOV. 25, 1952
»
Ann Rose Elected Honorary Colonel
Technical
Popularized
October Issue Changed 
Vacancy For Secretary
Long a magazine for intellectu­
als only, the Carnegie Technical 
has undergone a change in poli­
cy that means the entering fresh­
man will be able to understand the articles printed therein. Bill Stewart, editor-in-chief, has cau­
cused with the board of editors many times to thrash out. ways and means of improving the ma­gazine in both layout and editorial 
vontent.
Can UnderstandAs one of the editors said, “It’s about time the Technical quit 
printing every article in Greek and let people read them.” By 
skillful writing, facts will be pre­sented without paining anyone’s intellect with high-blown litera­
ture to describe complicated pro­cesses. So without sacrificing fact­
ual quality, the magazine is be­ing written so a freshman engi­neer, artist, or secretary will not 
be lost in a smokescreen of death­
less prose.
For the October issue, Thom 
Woodward’s giant-size art staff worked up a format the Technical 
likes but is sure it can improve. W th the “maiden voyage” issue 
behind them, and long dormant ideas beginning to hatch, the staff 
is confident of an ever-improving future.
Needs .AssistanceTo put across these improve­
ments, the Technical needs assist- 
[Continued on page 8J
CIT Camera Club 
Elects Officers,
Gus DeV os-Prexy
The Camera Club, an organiza­
tion which offers the use of its fa­cilities in the Carnegie Union to all male dormitory students who 
are interested in photography, re­
sumed activities this fall with the election of new officers.
Gus DeVos was elected to pres­ident’s position and Jack Weiss became vice-president. Bob Har­ing and Pete Horsch were elect­ed secretary and treasurer respec­tively.
One of the many activities of the club is their monthly print 
contest. The winner and runner- 
1*p in the October contest may be 
seen in the bookstore window.
photo by Toiaehd*fi RhcA scene from the play now being presented by the CIT drama 
department. “Golden Boy” is scheduled to run until Thanksgiving 
vacation.
Tartan Ranked High 
In Newspaper Contest
Out of 300 college newspapers entering the Associated Collegiate 
Press association’s national contest this fall, thiP Tartan has been 
ranked in the upper 16 percent. Awarded 970 points out of 1000, the 
Tartan just missed receiving an All-American rating and was given
a First-Class certificate. ?—----------------------------------------------
Each paper was judged on four
Ann Rose
ROTC Queen
YMCA
The YMCA freshman organ­
ization meeting will be held 
on December 7, 1952, at 7:00 
p.m. in the Carnegie Union. 
The purpose of the meeting is 
to form a strong YMCA or­
ganization. There will be the 
elections of officers, and re­
freshments will be served. All 
freshmen who have signed in 
the YMCA are invited to at­
tend.
major topics: news values and sources, news writing and editing, headlines and makeup, and depart­ment pages and special features. The judges gave a maximum of 250 points for each of the above.The Tartan was awarded 225 points for news values, 260 points for news writing, 255 points for makeup, and 230 points for de­partmental features.Special recognition was given 
for over-all coverage and good story organizations. The judges commented that, “Page one has a lot of reader interest from a make­up point of view, and the sports coverage is outstandings.”It was suggested, that the paper try to obtain more features on de­partmental activities and the school’s history. The judges also believed that the editorials were too long (this was before the length was reduced by using a car­toon). «
Almost every collegiate newspa­per in the country was entered in the contest, which is conducted twice each year. The Tartan has 
received at least a First Class rat­ing each time plus several All- American awards. The Pitt News received All-American recogni­tion.
Carnegie Pep Squad
There will be a meeting of all the students interested in 
joining and forming the Carnegie Pep Squad next Tuesday at 
11:30 iu AH 132.
Those interested are requested to drop the application form 
in the box provided in the Dean of Students’ office.
* * *
I Would be interested in organizing a Pep club on the Car­
negie Tech campus. Please contact me at the address below in
regards to the first meeting.
Bloodmobile Coming To CIT; 
Campus Chest Misses Goal
This year’s campus chest netted $771.65. The student goal of 
$1000 was not reached, but this year’s figure represents a sizable 
increase over the 1951 figure of $527. Larry Glavin was chairman 
of the drive which was sponsored by Student Council.
The Red Cross bloodmobile will^
once more come to the Carnegie 
campus on December 1, 1952.
Pledge cards will be available in 
Skibo this week. Any student de­
siring to donate blood can fill out a card there and schedule his ap­pointment for a convenient hour.
Each donor will be execused from his class the hour he gives blood, and also the following hour. 
Those under 21 who wish to do­nate blood may take a pledge card home and have it signed during the Thanksgiving vacation by their parents.
There are 150 openings to be filled, and it is hoped that a maxi­
mum contribution can be attained. 
Names 'of the donors will be pub­lished in the next issue of the 
Tartan. A large chart will be plac­
ed in Skibo to be filled out with
NAME .................................................................................CLASS
SCHOOL ADDRESS .................................................TELEPHONE.
COMMUTE! YES NO
Wives Club Meets; 
Also To Sponsor 
Children’s Party
The Carnegie Tech Wives club will meet at 8 p.m. on December 
2 at the Carnegie Union. The guest speaker for the evening will be Dr. Benjamin Spock. There also 
will be an excahnge of Christmas gifts, the cost not to exceed 50 
cents. All the wives of day and evening students are invited.
The following Wednesday, De­
cember 10, the club will sponsor 
a Children’s party from 2 to 4 p.m. 
in the Union.
Craig and Stahle Get Cup; 
ROTC Honoraries Call Pledges
Last Saturday at the Military Ball Ann 
Rose was commissioned honorary colonel by 
Carnegie Tech’s PMS&T, Colonel David A.
Morris. Selected as lieutenant colonels were 
Bonnie Shields and Grace Kirch. The honorary 
officers were elected by the ROTC students 
during their Thursday class.
Lee Kelton and his orchestra were featured 
at the annual all-school formal. Over the band­
stand hung a giant, napkin-made liberty bell 
flanked by a drawlhg of Independence Hall 
and a replica of the Declaration of Indepen­
dence. Along the walls were cartoons depict­
ing the lighter side of wartime.
A1 DeVido, president of Phi Kappa fra­
ternity, made the annual Joe Pash trophy
-----------------------------------------------?award of the “Best Football————————— |------------3---------------------------------| Player^ of the Year” to two men,
Tom Craig and Clyde Stahle.
Don Moss, captain of Scabbard 
and Blade, called the following 
men to membership in the Senior 
ROTC honorary: Joe Bercsi, Frank 
Chope, Don Dennison, Phil Drew, 
Tom Farris, John Hoover, Ed Hun­
ter, Louis Kirkbride, Alton Long, 
Ed Petras, Ed Possessky, Bill Prey, 
Chris Reiling, Kermit Riedy, Je­
rome Seiner, Alan Sleppy, Bill 
Ulevich, Bob Vilsack, Dave Wil­
liams, and Glen Wilson.
45 Called 
Pershing Rifles, the ROTC basic 
honorary, called: Allan Anderson, 
Bob Baiertoacft, Paul Berger, Ard- 
ven Blythe, Jim Bradley, Harry 
Bracken, Eugene Burke, Bob Cald­
well, Bob Campbell, Tom Clohessy, 
Ken Draper, Ronald Draper, Ed 
Eld, Dick Eppler, John Fiscus, Don 
Gross, Warren Holmes, George 
Howard, Carl Jones, Sigvard Lan- 
strom, Phil Lubitz, Eugene McEl- 
hinny, John Marchiando, Bill 
Minkler, Tom Mock, and William 
Moore.
Also called by Pershing Rifles 
were: Jim Murphy, Bart Osborne, 
Tom O’Shaughnessy, Willard Patj 
terson, Hugh Pendleton, Jim 
Plugge, Monie Pool, David Rob­
ertson, Hank Sauer, Tom 
Schriempf, Ed Shanahan, Don Shearer, Bob Solbach, Phil Stein, 
Prentiss Taaffe, Joe Thomas, Joel Vile, Allan Wasserman, Don Wil­liams, and Alan Zuckerwar.
the names and appointments of 
the donors.
Andy Stedry, president of the sophomore class, is in charge of 
the arrangements for the blood drive, which is also sponsored by Student Council.
New Musical 
At Playhouse
“Dance For Joy,” the new Pitts­burgh Playhouse musical which 
opened at the Craft avenue thea­
ter last week, was written by au- tor G. Wood, a Carnegie drama 
graduate, especially with with 
veteran Playhouse actress Pearl Hipps in mind.
Wood, who has written the mu­
sic, lyrics, and dialogue for this new musical, first saw Pearl Hipps 
in last spring’s Playhouse show 
“Wonderful Good” and at that 
time thought it might be unique to write a musical starring a char­acter actress.
With that as a start. Wood con­
ceived this idea of a retired de­
partment store clerk who fulfills a life-long ambition by enrolling in a ballroom dance studio.
“Dance For Joy” is really out of the ordinary in that Miss Hipps, 
long remembered by Playhouse- goers for hor comedy 
“Two Blind Mice” and
Dr. H. H. Lowry 
Gets This Year's 
Pittsburgh Award
Dr. H. H. Lowry, director of the coal research laboratory at Car­
negie Tech, was selected to re­ceive The Pittsburgh Award for 1952, the highest honor of the 
Pittsburgh section of the Ameri­can Chemical society, for service 
to chemistry and the community.
Dr. Earl Warrick, chairman of the Pittsburgh section, 
nounced that the forma tation will take place a roles in I nual dinner on Decembc “Arsenic Lowry did his unde
haspresthe
18.
and Old Lace,” is carrying the [ work at Ohio We 
leading role in a musical for the j He received his first time in her long theater I PhD degree 
career. j versity.
>m Piun

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, November 25, 1952
Waffen—SS Marches Again; 
French Hatred Glowing
Loans
Upperclass students need­
ing long-term loans for the 
Spring Semester should place 
their application in the Dean 
of Student’s Office, AH 150, no 
later than January 5, 1953.
by Professor Robert Schwarz
This month word came from Germany of a thought-compelling in­
cident. It was the “homecoming” day of the so-called Waffen-SS, 
Nazi black shirts who had often been used as shock troops by the 
German high command in the last war. The purpose of the re-union 
was to renew comradeship and to help trace lost members. The 
speechmaking turned into a political tirade against the former ene­
mies of Hitler Germany, especially the Western allies, and into a 
strong appeal for the restoration of facism. Attempts to dampen 
the jingoism of the main speaker, General Ramcke, and subsequent 
assurances that the views expressed were not those of the official 
federal republic, indeed, not even those of the German veteran 
organizations, could not ease the worry of the world which the words 
of General Ramcke and the parade of the SS elicited.
Very Inopportune Time
This resurgence of Nazi sentiment comes at a time which could 
not be more inopportune for the West German government. The most 
delicate and precarious negotiations with France, Britain, and the 
United States over the Saar, the Schuman plan, and the European 
army are in progress. Powerful factions in France oppose con­
cessions to Germany in any event; other groups are half-ready to 
co-operate with Germany because of American pressure and recogni­
tion of dire need to work with the Germans. Even in Germany itself 
there is a tremendous undercurrent of opposition to postponing Ger­
man unifications as a sacrifice for collaboration with the West. And 
in the midst of these deliberations which even at their best oper­
ate in the shadow of failure, ammunition is provided for those who 
have warned of the danger of a re-armed Germany.
Groups who otherwise stand on clearly divergent sides of poli­
tical and economic issues tend to agree, albeit for different reasons, 
that to establish a strong Germany is not an intelligent idea. To 
the right wing parties in France a strong Germany is traditionally 
anathema. The left wing parties see a restoration of the peril of 
aggression and political reaction in a militarily rehabilitated Ger­
many. The left wing parties in Germany hate the very idea of Nazi 
vestiges and a revival of the German general staff. To this con­
glomeration of views is now added the view of the Nazis that to co­
operate with the West is to invite disaster for Germany.
Has Many Effects
Where does the United States stand in this matter? Clearly a 
resurrection of Nazism is a heavy blow to our foreign policy. Besides, 
Generals Eisenhower and Ridgway have repeatedly said that Ger­
many’s participation in Europe’s defense is indispensable. The United 
States has had much difficulty in preventing a break-down of deliber­
ations and French disaffection, even before these conspicuous signs 
of a re-awakened National Socialism. It has an even harder task now. 
Add to that the decreasing popularity of the United States in Ger­
many resulting from the conviction of many Germans that this coun­
try has trained German cut-throats to undertake political assassina­
tions; add the recent French antagonism to America on the question 
of Indo-China; add to it the election of the ex-Nazi leader Schepmann 
to the county council of lower Saxony; and it becomes plain that 
the rising of the Nazi ghost would jeopardize the success of our 
entire European policy to a critical degree.
Military Ball Budget 
Brought Before Council
Last Wednesday’s Student Council meeting opened witfe a stern 
reproof of various Council members by its president, Dick Franklin. 
Franklin said that some SC members were neglecing their duties. 
Thereupon he asked for the resignation of those members who felt
they could not carry out their du-' 
ties efficiently.
Budget chairman Ray Sebulsky 
reported that the tearing down of 
Allegheny’s goal posts cost the 
Tech students $75. He also made 
a motion to put $60 in Student Council’s budget for the next year 
in order that awards could be giv­
en to freshmen for passing the 
tradition’s test. The motion was 
defeated.
Next Sebulsky brought the 
budget for the Military Ball be­
fore Student Council. Because the budget was turned in late, Student Council had a long discussion try­
ing to decide whether to approve 
it. A motion was made to suspend 
the Ball, but it was defeated.
Parking committee chairman Goetzman made a report to Coun­
cil stating that there was ade­quate parking facilities for all Tech students. He said the reason 
that some students have a diffi­
cult time parking is that they do 
not utilize the FPHA parking lot. 
Also, many fraternity men drive
Dr. J, C. Warner 
Receives Award
Dr. John C. Warner, president of Carnegie Institute of Technol­ogy, has been awarded the 1953 Gold Medal of the American In­stitute of Chemists. The announce­ment was made in New York on November 12 at a meeting of the Institute of Chemists’ council. The medal will be presented to Dr. Warner on May 12, 1952 in Phil­
adelphia during the annual meet­ing of the Chemists’ Institute. Dr. Warner is the 25th person to re­ceive the Institute’s gold medal.
Veterans
Requisitions for books, sup­
plies and equipment for the 
fall semester 1952-53 cannot 
be honored by the book store 
after December 15.
WORLD'S PORTABLE 
SPUD CHAMPION*
tie easiest-writing 
portable ever built!
•Royal Portable hold* the official World'» 
Portable Speed Championship a**hown 
WP the current World'* almanac.
baa Wr 'a»a Spp
Terms as low as $*| .25 Weekly
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
644 Liberty Avenue AT 1-8320— AnRRoseA E 
leRcslA E letdcsHA
The young executive
MAKES HIS MARK IN RETAILING 
THROUGH SPECIALIZED TRAINING
One-year Course
Caomn rs 
worra»uy 
*a.»aa
Specialized training speeds college grads 
to top retail jobs. Interesting positions open 
in buying, advertising, fashion, personnel, 
management and teaching. Realistic class­
room approach. Supervised store experience 
with pay. Coeducational. Graduates placed. 
Scholarships available.
baPm Os» RYCCarWP B
SCHOOL OF RETAILING
University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
</ , 
Glue wpgz bus
Serving Maryland/ Ohi©/ Pennsylvania/ 
Virginia and West Virginia from
Liberty Ave. at Grant St., Pittsburgh, Pa.CO 1-1800
to school, thus limiting the park­ing space.
As of Wednesday, Student 
Council’s special committee re­
ported that the Campus Chest had taken in $771. This was an in­
crease of approximately $250 over last year.
T utoring
Again this semester, the 
members of Tau Beta Pi, na­
tional engineering: honorary, 
will sponsor a tutoring pro­
gram for Tech students.
The courses in which tutor­
ing will be offered are S-101, 
S-221, S-231, S-403, and S-404. 
In order to procure tutoring 
service, call Bob Helmbold at 
MU 1-1605 or MU 2-8768.
If there is sufficient demand 
for them, other courses will be 
tutored.
CFP Plans 
Coming Events
The Council of Fraternity Pres­
idents at Carnegie Tech has been 
busy since the beginning of 
school with problems and activi­
ties that effect the 12 social fra­
ternities on campus. Through CFP 
the fraternities aided Mortar 
Board with the decorations for 
Homecoming dance. During the 
last few weeks, Council has par­
ticipated in the Campus Chest 
drive.
Also, under the direction of 
Lloyd Grace, the Inter fraternity 
Pledge Council has again been or­ganized. This body has done much to bring about a better under­
standing among the pledge classes 
on campus. It has arranged for exchange dinners and sponsored the pledge cheer contest at the Homecoming pep rally.
Plans are now being made for 
the social events that will come 
up during the second semester. The annual CFP formal will be 
held on January 10, with Tex 
Beneke furnishing danceable mu­sic and entertainment. Syria Mos­
que has been reserved for the formal.
Early in the spring Greek Sing 
and Swing will be held. This has tentatively been set for March 13 
and 14. The rules and song lists 
will be out in a couple of weeks.
The officers for this semester are: A1 DeVido, president; Tom Nathan, vice-president; Bob Stei­ger, secretary; and Guy Wilson, treasurer.
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products 
Nationally Known Clothing and Furnishings
LEONARD'S MEN'S SHOP
Corner Forbes and Atwood St.Oakland
In action
or relaxin
you’re the 
feature •
attraction
in Arrow
Sports Shirts
ARROW
EEEEEEb'HNMb S MHfb S Ui*fN2f-N S '-i*3fNB'Hf9b S b5hNMb b'HNMbEEEEEEE
ROY Y. BEESE
AUFHAMMER & EVANS, INC.
6100 PENN AVENUE EAST LIBERTT, PA.
DISTINCTIVE HABERDASHERY

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, November 25, 1952—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Pagre S
Info Given 
About Draft
A representative from the re­
cruiting service will speak to the 
students of Tech in order to ori­
entate and better familiarize them 
with the different types of train­ing available in the U. S. air force and U. S. army.
There seems to be no great gap 
between the time students grad­uate or discontinue their educa­tion and the time they receive 
their notice by the draft board to report for a pre-induction physi­
cal. Dut to the increased draft quota, these students are given induction notice three weeks to a month subsequent to their phys­ical examination.
After a man receives his pre­induction physical he has the pre­rogative to volunteer for any 
branch of service. But three weeks 
to a month is not sufficient time for any one to volunteer for a specific type of training and be 
processed for acceptance. By specific training is meant training such as aircraft pilot, aircraft ob­server, officer candidate, etc.
A plan has been formulated, whereby anyone desiring informa­tion concerning the U. S. army and 
air force or the draft submit his question to the Tartan office. They 
will be answered by the repre­
sentative when he addresses the students, on some later date.
^Jlie Obionici tu f-^t
Reis and Kasper 
Puppet entertains dramats * * * * * * 
Dramats See Puppets, 
Course To Be Started
by Bob Livingston
Last Tuesday the drama department had the good fortune to 
witness» a fascinating demonstration of puppeteering. Erhard Reis, 
German exchange visitor, gave the group a short lecture and clever 
performance concerning “puppet-life.”
In his brief talk, Mr. Reis discussed the differences between the 
German hero-puppet, Kasper, (“do-gooder”) and our well-known 
protaganist, Punch. Kasper tries to bring his audience into the play 
through plot, dialogue and side-speeches, making them an emotional 
force to help guide the characters, rather than to merely watch the
-----—--------------------------------------#play transgress.
Good and Bad
aperó.
Editor’s note: In a recent exploration of the catacombs deep be­
neath Engineering hall, several curious relics were uncovered among 
the abandoned burrettes and thistle tubes lying there. Amidst these 
materials were found three bottle openers, a second hand prayer 
wheel, and a sheaf of yellow parchments which may prove to be 
the most startling literary find since the sensational Porter Hall 
Confidenial.
The papers referred to are the personal writings of one Medulla 
Oblongata, a friendly hermit who spent 43 years living six floors below 
the metallurgy department on locusts and dried flies. Rumor has it 
that he would not have lived as long as he did had not an unnamed 
waitress from Skibo supplied him with foodstuffs during his existence 
at Carnegie Tech.
During the next few weeks, the TARTAN will publish selected
items from Oblongata’s writings, which contain much homely, and
often downright ugly, philosophy.* * *
The Basket Case.
Translated from the Original Armenian by R. Durstine
Once, several years ago, there lived in a little village in the 
middle eastern part of Pennsylvania a good natured young fellow 
named Cosmo Q. Arachnid. Mr. Arachnid had had, ever since .he 
could remember, just one burning desire, the irresistible urge to do 
something that had never been done before, and was not likely to 
be done again. \ ?-------------- 'He did not care particularly what this might be, so long as his life’s work met his exacting re­quirements for uniqueness.So, the day following his twen­ty-first birthday, Mr. Arachnid decided to devote his life to the study of humorous stories, and set 
out to compile a complete list of all the funny writings, sayings, and thoughts that had been cre­ated by man since the beginning of time. *As he gathered these items to­gether, he classified them accord­ing to time, place, and person of, and reason for origin. He hoped finally to compile the most com­plete cross index of humor that had ever been conteived, so that future writers, speakers, and thinkers would not have to waste 
their time creating humorous in­terludes to light their otherwise drab and uninteresting lives.By the time Mr. Arachnid was 74 he had material for 718 volumes of funny stories, 345 collections of 
witty sayings for all occasions, 476 
books full of retorts to these say­ings, and innumerable pleasant 
thoughts that one could think when feeling in need of good cheer.On top of all this, he had com­piled a total of 879 volumes of indices to correlate his books, and 76 volumes of further indices to 
index the first indices.Needless to say, Mr. Arachnid was rather tired by the end of 
these 53 years.
To achieve his final triumph, Mr. Arachnid sgnt his collected efforts to a publisher, with the re­quest that his books be made available to the world so that it might enjoy them. He then sat back to wait the answer and any small remuneration that might ac­company it, for besides being tired, Mr. Arachnid was quite hungry.
Six days later, Mr. Arachnid re­ceived a package in the mail and paid $69.87 postage due (which sum he received from a sympa­thetic neighbor) upon its arrival. In the package were his writings, returned from the publisher, to­gether with a polite letter advis­ing his lhat only a week previ­ously the publishing house had ac­cepted a collection of humorous stories that contained a total of 17 more funny items than did Mr. Arachnid’s.
Mr. Arachnid felt crushed.But he decided to make the best of it, and sat down by his hearth with his pet anteater, Dido, and started to read all the funny stories 
he had compiled.
Previously he had been too busy for such recreation.And so he continued until he reached the ripe age of 109, when he died from exhaustion after 34 minutes of solid laughter while 
reading a book of anecdotes.
Moral: Don’t put all your eggs 
in one basket unless you are par­
ticularly fond of eggs.
The plays are produced with children in mind. However, there are adult’s plays in which more forceful characters are used and 
a more profound plot suggested. The puppets are typed into “good” and “bad” categories, and with a 
series of slides, Mr. Reis explained the uses of such characters.
A master of string puppets, too, Mr. Reis then manipulated his naturally known marionette, clown Eddi. The high spot of the demonstration came when the puppetter went behind his newly built, modern puppet-stage and presented Kasper. Uncanny effects were obtained and after a few 
minutes, the puppets appeared to be “human” with their mischiev­
ous antics on the small stage.The drama department intends to open a course of puppetry which Mr. Reis will teach. The students will actually produce a play (for school presentation) un­
der the direction of their teacher. In his homeland, Mr. Reis is known nationally as a producer 
of puppet shows, teacher of pup­petry, and author of several pub­lished books on puppeteering.
Vespers
Cameron choir will partici­
pate in the vesper service at St. Andrew’s Lutheran church at the corner of Morewood and Centre on December 7 at 4:30 p.m.
Veterans
Requisitions for books, sup­plies and equipment for the fall semester 1952-53 cannot be honored by the book store after December 15.
GDI Briefly Appears 
After Periodic Absence
by Bill Minkler
Various sources believe that a movement is in progress to reor­
ganize the Gamma Delta Iota society, which disbanded a few 
years ago. Signs bearing the society’s initials have appeared in 
the stands at recent football games, and at least one person has
been conducting a membership 
drive in the freshman 1A section.
GDI was founded in the latrine across from AH 208 in the fall of 1942, according to a former char­
ter member now closely associated with the Tbch faculty. He said there were auout 20 members in the original group.
The society was formed, he re­vealed, when many independent students grew tired of hearing 
people say, “Is he a so-and-so?” “No, he joined so-and-so.”
This original group was not especially active, but the members did chalk up their insignia on 
blackboards and sidewalks. The chairmanship rotated daily from member to member.
The 1942 organization dissolved 
and was not reorganized until the fall of 1949. The members of the 1949 GDI, however, disclaim any 
connection with the old club. A spokesman for the group said he never even knew there was a 
GDI chapter previous to 1949.
The new GDI was a “benevolent society for the benefit of its mem­
bers.” It began when the inde­
pendent students of freshman sec­tion 1A decided to hold a social 
function for themselves. They en­
listed other interested people, mostly freslimen and sophomores, and soon meetings were being held 
every few weeks in the recreation room of Henderson hall.
The club worked actively on 
behalf of the independent candi­dates in the fall of 1949 Student Council election. It also painted a 
prominent post in front of Skibo an odd shade of purple, in honor 
of exams. Its members attended football games with their GDI 
plaque, and promoted “good fel­lowship.”
The organization disband­ed again in the spring of 1951, 
when all but two of its members joined fraternities.
by Three Blind Mice SPOTS BEFORE MY EYES . . .
On the giant size mural in the new IA building has one mysterious red dot painted about eye level in a color that closely resembles lip­stick. We don’t suspect the 
MMCC’s, but. . .
PUSH - PULL—CLICK, CLICK . . . The Daily Princetonian re­ports, “Administration officials have expressed concern over the widespread use of scissors in the popular scalping activities, espe­cially since one fellow was badly slashed near the eye.” But, “The use of electric razors has official encouragement.”ODE TO MORGUE - WOOD 
GARDENS . . .Freshmen must be seen; not heard Shut the door, don’t say a word If your boyfriend calls, you dare not shriek You may disturb upperclass­
men’s sleep If you run off at the mouth when you get excited,When it’s time to come back, you 
won’t be invited.THE YOUNGER GENERATION 
. . . A college fraternity in Ala­bama was shut down by the school authorities when it was learned that the house-mother was only nineteen years old!MEDICINE . . . College registra­
tion usually has its great measure of confusion. At North Texas State college a girl was diverted from the line into a separate room and told that she would have to be vaccinated because the college had no record of her previous vac­cination. “But nurse, will it work?” she stammered, “I’m reg­istering for my husband.”It has been said that no “draft- dodging college student” should stay awake nights because he is lying in a dorm bed while other fellows lie in foxholes. Arrange­ments have been made to ease any guilty conscience after graduation.DE - - TAIL . . . Have noted grins caused by the president of the senior class when he unknow­ingly sported a tail placed on his derriere (posterior) by an ad­mirer. End of the tale.
Your I.D. CARD Means15% off
TIME SHOP
On
e Watch Repairs
• Lighters • Gifts• Watches • Jewelry• Identification Bracelets 
3623 FIFTH AVE. - SC 1-7077
(Fifth Avenue at Atwood St.)
Sales TVDETUfDITEDC 0ffi,e
Service | f I HWill I LIlO Supplies
NEW PORTABLES for RENT
WEEK — MONTH — TERM 
Free Delivery and Pick-Up Service
PHONE MU 2-3956
ALLIED OFFICE MACHINES CO.
3806 Forbes Street
Rushing
Freshman and upperclass­man women interested in pledging a sorority during the spring rushing period will be given an opportunity to ask questions about sororities on Monday, December 1, at 4:30 p.m. in the Recreation hall on the fourth floor of MMCC.
EXPERIENCED TYPIST
Desires Work at Home 
JA 1-5913 
MO 1-2662
LET’S GO TO
ISALY'S
Milk Shakes 
Big Ice Cream Cones 
Klondikes 
Tasty Lunches
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes St., Squirrel Hill 
8714 Forbes St., Oakland
Main Plant:
3380 Boulevard of the Allies

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, November 25, 1952
Letters—
About This Poetry
Editor, the Tartan:
Who is this guy K. E. L.? For the last two 
Issues he has been moaning (in stylish verse of 
course) about our school set-up; first about leaving 
books outside the bookstore, and then about ath­
letic department policy.—Now it seems to me that 
moaning is a great steam letter-offer, but also that 
it is a good idea to blow off in a useful direction. 
Unquestionably there are lots of things wrong here, 
but one of the main ones is an oversupply of mal­
contents.
A primary objective of this place seems to be 
to provide a systematic, well-rounded education; 
to the athletic dept, this means conformation of 
gym clothes and a working knowledge of a few 
games. I, for one, am all for it. School spirit is 
essentially school pride, and to watch a gym class 
neatly dressed, and who look as if they know what 
they are doing, gives one a feeling of pride.
Let’s at least be constructive in our criticism.
Signed,
L. B. W.
EX PRIN CDT Tin YRSi y
Councilidiocy
Editor, the Tartan:
It seems to me that our much-discussed Student 
Council could find more and better things to do 
than debate the merit of cancelling the Military 
Ball merely because of a breach of operating pro­
cedure in preparations for the dance.
Certainly it is not to Council’s discredit that it 
defeated unanimously a motion to suspend the ball, 
or that it finally approved the budget which Scab­
bard and Blade belatedly presented for its formal 
dance. But not much good can be said for the fact 
that Council members pondered long on these de­
cisions, trying to decide whether it would be best 
to let the dance go on as scheduled or not.
Though there is merit in SC’s desire to have 
its by-laws adhered to, and to have all social 
budgets presented three weeks before the event, 
there could certainly have been no advantage in 
refusing the budget or cancelling the Military Ball 
just to prove this point to the public.
More than likely such action would have proved 
only that Council consists of some twenty-odd peo­
ple with their heads up their respective sleeves, 
an impression it would be wTeIl for our esteemed 
student government to avoid as much as possible.
Fortunately no damage was done in this case, 
and no-one so much as voted to suspend the event, 
but the discussion that preceded the votes on the 
issues either shows much stir over nothing or a vast 
amount of ignorance on the part of one group 
that should certainly have some idea of what is 
coming off on this campus.
Yours truly,
R. Durstine
Editorial
WMSSÎK!
OFFICES: Carnegie Union 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, 
Pa. TELEPHONE- SChenley 1-4557, after hours MUseum 
1-5380 for advertising and subscriptions: MUseura 2-3990. 
Published weekly, during the school year except holidays 
and examination periods by the students of Carnegie Insti­
tute of Technology, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Editor-in-Chief  ................ ............... ............ Fred Sonnenberg
Business Manager .................................................. David Goldsmith
Managing Editor ...................................................... Dick Durstine
Sports Editor ..................................................................... Frank Fegley
New» Editor ..................................................................... Estelle Herlick
Personnel Manager—Dick Christensen. Features Editor—Bill 
Smith. Advertising Manager—Stan Rosenberg. Assistant 
Business Manager—Jerry Seiner. Circulation Manager—Joe 
Lt Marca. Photography Editor—Martin Snyderman. Reporters 
— Sheila Sullivan, Jack Armour, Joan Cummerton, Jane 
Sunder, Dave Hubbard. "Jackie Connolly, Marilyn Seiner, 
Ken Winston, Bill Minkier. cub Reporters—Barbara Leonard, 
Pat Maue. Joe Forsythe, Elaine Manuele, Ann Dwindle, Doro­
thy Downing, Mildred Magura, Dave Robertson, Mollie Rudy, 
Delores Prus. Sports Reporter*—Edward Feigenbaum, Rob­
ert Steiger, Gene O’Reilly, Dick Epplef, Ivr Shechter, James 
Gore. Copy Reader—Paul Carmichael. Art Staff—Joan Brech­
in, Nelron Kelley, Dick Stahl. Photographers—Barbara Toia, 
Don Hand, Myron Lewis, Roger Gregory, Dick Wolfe. 
Features Staff—Andrew Stedry, Robert McQuaid, Lin Smith, 
fudy Storch. Typist—Elayne Nord. Headline Staff—Van An- 
lerson, Pat Naugle, Dan Byer». Copy Make-Up Staff—Ellroy 
Noting. Advertising Staff—Ronald Greenwald, Vic Shiry, Mimi 
Stern, Joan Newman. Circulation Staff—Ralph Antonito. »
ited for 
G. inc.
national advertising 
College Publishers w York City. Subseri 
¦ond class matter on 
Pittsburgh, Pa., under 
r mailing at special 
Act of February 28
• \ssociated College
by NATIONAL AD- 
Representative, 420 
ption $1.10 per year. 
October 4, 1907, at 
the Act of March 3. 
rate of postage pro- 
1925.
Pres«.
CIT Needs A King
Thanks to the military honorary, Scabbard & Blade, CIT 
students had a chance to look at an interesting bulletin board 
display last week. Such a queen campaign is rather simple 
to conduct and yet incites almost as much interest in the 
student body as some of the more vigorous tussles in the 
spring semester. By the time this year becomes history 
there will have been many elections for a queen to repre­
sent some idea or phase of campus life, but the girls may 
never get a chance to elect a king to reign over CIT.
For the past few years Mortar Board has made numer­
ous attempts to sell the Council of Fraternity Presidents on 
having a King of Hearts election, and each year CFP finally 
gives in after first moaning about all the work involved in 
campaigning. Yet, each year the stunts at Morewood and 
Skibo become more elaborate. If the fraternities are so un­
willing to have a King of Hearts, why do they have to con­
duct such intensive campaigns? The Military Queen elec­
tion shows that a relatively simple campaign can still arouse 
enough campus interest to make it interesting.
It isn’t too fair to the female element of our student body 
to make the poor girls conduct two or three campaigns during 
the year in order to draw out the male vote; and they are never 
given the chance to sit back and have someone beg for their 
vote. Several have said that this argument is rather silly 
when studied by the mature mind. No matter how old any 
person is, he doesn’t like to work all the time for someone else 
and never have the privilege of sitting on the other side of the 
fence. In fact the nearness of one of these elections to the other 
has often prompted the campaigners in the other to go all out.
When the time rolls around for the Carnival Queen elec­
tion, all the fraternity men began to judge each sorority 
by the amount of work put into its campaign and how many 
personal favors such as shoe shining, cakes, and cigarettes 
it offers. Although the fraternity men are too lazy to con­
duct an all-out campaign, they feel it perfectly all right to 
expect the sororities to put all their time and effort into 
the Queen campaign.
Since every Greek is kept pretty busy during the Spring 
Carnival season building floats, buggies, and booths, there 
may be some justification in the idea that fraternities 
shouldn’t have to conduct as extensive a campaign as the 
sororities do. Maybe we should have the King of Hearts 
election during the fall semester instead of in the spring.
However, the time is getting near when the officers of 
CFP and Mortar Board are going to have to decide whether 
we will have a King of Hearts elections this year, and it is 
our feeling that they owe it to the students. If the fellows 
feel that they’re justified in easing up on the caliber of the 
campaigning, they should still be willing to conduct King of 
Hearts on the level of the Military Queen election. All it 
would require is the candidate posing for his picture, and 
then having his fraternity brothers or dorm mates posting 
them. Or, the pictures could be turned over ter the Mortar 
Board and it could display them in the same manner as 
Scabbard & Blade did. The whole works could be conducted 
with a minimum of effort, and by the time the Saturday 
dance was finished everyone would be happy, and our campus 
queen wouldn’t have to rule this broad domain all alone.
Inquiring Reporter—
Seeks Explanation 
Of School Spirit
by Ken Winston
The question asked by the Inquiring reporter thi* 
week was as follows: “What do you think srould 
be done to increase the ‘school spirit’ at Tech?**
Arthur Brown, graduate, printing—“I feel that 
an important reason for any lack 
of spirit is the absence of integ­
ration between schools. Thé ar­
chitects think of the school as 
the Carnegie school of architec­
ture, the printers as the Carne­
gie school of printing, tand so on, 
having little idea of what goes 
on in other departments as well 
as what are the requisites of a 
dramatist, artist, or architect.
“A possible remedy might be 
required tours through all the other departments 
together with fairly searching lectures on what 
sort of work and knowledge lies behind degrees 
in the departments.”
Norman Berkow, junior, printing manage­
ments—“From the time I first en­
tered this school I heard of the 
mighty Tech teams from before 
1939, and included the many 
overwhelming victories by these 
teams. Since that time the team’s 
playing capabilities have fallen 
enormously due to the lack of 
athletic scholarships and the 
many veterans here.
“As I understand, this fall 
has been accompanied by a fall 
of school spirit. A logical conclusion then would 
be to give athletic scholarships again, but this is 
^gainst school policy. So therefore as the main 
Tech interests are scholastic, the only other logical 
answer is such attempts as sponsored game rallies 
and the pep squad.•
“The only part of the school open to interest 
this way is the dorms and the fraternities. Were 
the fraternities stronger in their school spirit at 
all times, acting as a core of school spirit, then 
the dorçn men and women would fall in behind 
them. I hold no hope for getting the commuters 
to join suit.
“The fraternities, because they are organized 
and because of the fraternal spirit which already 
exists, are the logical starting point in a campaign 
to build up school spirit. If the fraternities would 
require their pledges and activities alike to parti­
cipate in the school activities, pep rallies, etc., 
school spirit would soar. This is the only practical 
way to increase school spirit because it certainly 
must come from the fraternity men if it is to 
continue at all.
Ernie Schoenfeld, freshman, electrical engineer­
ing—“In the short time I’ve been 
here at Tech, I’ve seen evidenced 
quite a bit of spirit. Everyone 
I’ve seen seems to have a great 
pride in this school and the 
things about it. It’s a good type 
of spirjt. It’s more or less un­
derlying, but you’re aware of it 
never the less.
“All that can be done is to 
bring it out a little more by get­
ting the activities to know each 
other a little better. The activities are where the 
school spirit starts. Emphasize them and you wake 
up the pride fo their members. Get everybody’s 
pride going and the school spirit will take care 
of itself.”
Bob Haring, sophomore, chemical engineering—
“School spirit at Tech is usually 
in the negative. That is, the stu­
dent body will readily confirm 
the facts that we don’t play top­
flight football and we don’t have 
a million-dollar student union.
“Since school spirit is largely 
a matter of pride, I feel that an 
active campaign should be waged 
by the Tartan, Student Council, 
etc. to make the student b<?dy 
aware and proud of the many 
things that are really important in determining 
the school’s value.
“We have: widely diversified extracurricular 
activities, excellent facilities for graduate studies, 
nationally recognized drama department, consis­
tently high scholastic level required of the under­
graduates, and scores of living tributes to Tech, 
the. Carnegie graduate in engineering practice.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, November 25, 1952—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page B
Varsity Cagers To Play Alumni Stars
VARSITY BASKETBALL 
PERSONALITIES
Donald Hay—a senior P&D from Avaion. Dorv is a center stand­
ing 6'2". Although he didn’t play any high school ball, Don is ex­
pected to have a very good year. He is a returning letterman.
Kaye Thompson—co-captain and the fastest man on the team, a 
senior architect from Butler who should be one of the best of the 
Plaid this season. A varsity man last year, Kaye has improved 
much since the end of the ’52 campaign; plays guard.
Tom Craig—one of the best basketball players in the district, 
co-captain Tom has put away his football togs and is ready for a 
great year. He has been a varsity man for three years. From East 
McKeesport.
Bill Farbacher—playing his third season on the first team, his 
passing and defensive work has improved greatly since last year. Bill 
is a junior in the ME department.
Noby Ackerman—a sophomore from Edgewood is assured of play­
ing a lot this year. He is studying printing management.
Bill Dosey—another sophomore who could very easily make the 
starting team. An IM from Westview, plays guard.
Bill Hyams—a 6'2" center, got his experience at Mt. Lebanon, 
Bill is a sophomore taking metallurgy.
Phil Jeske—a guard from Ferguson, Mo., hopes to be on starting 
team come the season’s opener. He is a five foot eleven inch, 170 
pounder, studying printing management.
Ralph Mocker—a freshman from East Pittsburgh has looked so 
good this season that he will play exclusively with the varsity squad. 
He is 6'1" and is taking architecture.
Dick Fieler—a freshman forward from Mt. Healthy, Ohio, is a 
6'2" chem engineer who has a good chance of playing some var­
sity ball this season besides being on the frosh squad.
Jim Boyd—a product from Brownsville, Jim plays guard. Also 
a chem engineer, he should have a fine year in frosh ball and might 
see action in a few varsity tilts.
George Wilkinson—a smart smooth playing guard from Wilmer- 
ding, he is taking printing management.
Charles Bernath—the tallest freshman out being 6'5", Chuck will 
play at the center slot and is expecting a good season. He is an 
industrial management major from Swissvale. «
Walt McGinnis—coming from New Wilmington, Walt, a 5' 11" 
guard who plays first string freshman ball, stands a good chance of 
getting in a couple of varsity games.
Straight Call Pool
Intramural callpool matches can be arranged by
calling the following team managers.
Robbins, Joe ................DU ....................PE 1-4812
Carter, Frank................KS ....................SC 1-9770
Konoval, G............MU 2-9076
Ku"limanick, Ron.........SAE .................MU 2-9211
Armour, Jack .............PiKA ................SC 1-9846
Bisohak, Bob ................PK ....................SC 1-9524
Busliey. G. W.................SN ..................MU 2-9053
Eastwood, Russ ...........TX ....................SC 1-9580
Fegley, Frank .............BTP..................MU 2-8768
Tech Places Sixth In District;/
Craig Leads Plaid In ScoringO'. c?
Veteran Tartan end Tom Craig caught seven touchdown passes 
for 42 points to lead the Skibos in scoring and place sixth among 
the Western Pennsylvania Class B scoring leaders.
Wash-Jeff’s Art Massaro, though playing in only six games, 
won the scoring championship by 
virtue of his scoring 11 touchdown 
and converting nine times by placement for 75 points. Twenty 
of Massaro’s points were accumu­lated in the Prexies 35-20 upset victory over the Plaid.
Scoring Leaders
West Penn Class B
Clarionw
8L
0T
0
Waynesburg7i0
Wash-Jeff&i0
Westminster820
St. Vincent520
CARNEGIE TECH43«
Slippery Rock43«
Indiana T.44A
California T.340
Edinboro T.34V
Allegheny*6«
Thiel150
Geneva161
Grove Cityt«1
St. Francis070
r ---------------------------------------.Clarion was the only district 
team that emerged undefeated and 
untied, but had to share the West- Penn title with Waynesburg and 
Washington & Jefferson, both of 
whom were undefeated within the 
T5 team class B group.
Waynesburg lost to West Vir­
ginia and Wash-Jeff bowed to 
Case in interschool competition.
Carnegie Tech began and ended JPthe season on losing notes, but 
managed to place four consecutive 
victories in between to rank sixth 
in the mythical conference.
PlayerPoints
Bradford, Waynesburg
CRAIG, CARNEGIE -------
McGrath, Westminster ...
Beadling, Waynesburg ...
Swim Team 
Eager To Go
Sofield Pessimistic 
About Team’s Fate
Claude Soiieia s flying fishes are confident that this year’s team will be as strong, if not stronger, than last year’s. The ’51-’52 squad won 6 and lost 3 and then wound up the season with a 1st place in the Tri-State Meet. But Coach Sofield is not so optimistic. “I can’t predict anything. Right now, there are 28 boys trying out for the squad, but that number changes almost daily, grades, in­juries, sickness, and lack of abil­ity or interest taking their toll. With a situation like that, I can’t tell who we’ll have, let alone what we will do.”Eight Lettermen ReturnSofield does have 14 men re­turning from last year’s squad, eight of these lettermen. Leading the pack are seniors Dick Kramer, free-style flash, and Grey Duncan, diving ace. Kramer, who rides the waves like a cork and swims like a fish, holds the record, while Duncan (probably better known as the number one cheerleader) is number one diver and was un­defeated last jrear. Only other senior on the squad is Bob Wed­dell, one of Tech’s "most depend­able point getters and a two letter winner.
Rod MacDonald, Chuck Gough, Bill Aiken, Bob Coulter, and Phil Drew round out the list of letter­men. They will make up this year's n lcleus and will be 
strengthened by returning team mates Bill Prey, Theo Reuther, Rudy Sapper, Bob Fischer, and Bob McQuaid. Dave Chidester, also from last year’s squad, will have kid brother John to push him, while the other old timers will have their hands full keeping their noses out in front of the large freshman pack. The class of ’56 is well represented, with 14 Frosh eager for positions on the Tech squad. Of these Jay Ascher, chem eng and Dave Guzz, chemist, are the most promising.Will Miss DemasCoach, swimmers, and managers Ray Emery and Dick Kendrick all agree on one thing—‘we wTill miss last year’s seniors, especially Nick Demas, who was almost always good for a first in the 50 and 100 yard free-style and was anchor man in the relays.’ The team has been working out since October 27 preparing for the opener with In­
diana State Teachers on Decem­ber 13.Dry land drills (swimmer’s term for calisthenics) lasted until No­vember 13 when they took to the deep water. If any of the enthu­siasm shown in these drills is an indication of things to come, then Tech will have another winner. 
Now since everybody likes to see a winner, stop at the swimming pool Saturday, December 13, at 2 p.m. and watch some exciting races and fine fancy diving.
Sistick, Westminster .......................... 35
Parks, Edinboro ...................................... 33
Piscarik, W&J ................ 31
Natali, California T ............................. SO
For the BEST
tint 
Photographic 
Equipment and SuppliesiLbertyPhoto
Supply
GR 1-6467 .. 436 Wood St.
University Recreation
BOWLING
Afternoon Bowling 
For Students
RENTAL of BOWLING SHOES
6ALEAI BN-He bMNffM 
bBDaPCaF gEIkAL
AUFHAMMER & EVANS, Inc.
ROY V. BEESE
6100 Penn Avenue East Liberty, Pa.
DISTINCTIVE HABERDASHERY
Former Scot Aces Will Return 
To Meet Varsity December 1
On Monday, Dec. 1, the Carnegie Tech varsity basketball squad 
will take on a star-studded team made up of the alumni of thk 
institution. Leading the grads will be Max Hannum, former Tec^ 
basketball coach, who will have charge of the victory minded re­
turnees. Max is coming all the^-----------------------------------------------*way from Lancaster, and with the array of former aces that he has with him, the game promises to be a very hard-fought encounter.
«Some pf the alumni players will be:
Tom Beck—co-captain of the 1952 team.Connie Hamman—the big center on the powerful 1951 squad.Mike Theodore—team captain for three years and holder of the all-time Plaid scoring record. Also winner of the most valuable ath­lete award in 1949.Jack Riehl—a brilliant defen­sive player, one of the best from Tech in ye&rs. Jack won the most valuable athlete award in 1950.Joe Matson—a high scoring for­ward with lots of drive.Herman Hemering, Wally Pat­ten,, and Bob DeBortoIas—team­mates on Tech’s last good basket­ball team before the war.Other grads who probably will see action in the contest:Frank Jorden—a guard on the ’40 team and fullback on the 1939 Sugar Bowl squad.John Schmidt—Another ex-Su­
gar Bowler who played basketball.Joe Slaminko and Buzzy Greet»' berg—center and guard respec­tively on the 1937 squad.
Les Clougherty ’42, Jack Sher­man ’43, and Ed Miller ’39, all finf players from former Scot squads.A freshman contest between thif year’s frosh team and a group rep­resenting the Newman club wilJ open proceedings at 7 p.m. with 
the big contest to follow at 8:30. There will be no admission charge and it is a good chance for the un­dergraduates to get a sneak pre­view of this season’s baskertJaU squad.
Swimming
You can help insure that Tartan teams will be victori­ous by attending; as many ath­letic events as possible. The first inter-school swimming meet is against Indiana State Teachers College on Decem­ber 13 at the pool.
dHMMdf w-i hi B-w5UbRF RHRdfN
‘Say, Keely, how’s about a straw for Carolyn's root beer, huh'
A GIFT
FOR THE PARTICULAR PERSON
Beautiful, hand-made leather pieces, gold- 
tooled — in red, green, brown and wine. 
Library set—with scissors and letter
opener....................................................$6.75
Cigarette lighter—Evans “large economy“'
fuel capacity....................................... $6.75
Round ashtray—handsomely crafted, re­
movable glass insert with center rest $2.70 
Deluxe Key Kaps—imported Morocco
and Pigskin in 4 colors..................$1.35
See Modern Styling at its Best atC. I. T. Bookstore

---------------------------------------------------

CHEVROLET
M-NM-i eN-55dfNb
Captain ‘Wakie’ Bowser and Coach Alexander look over the positioned wrestling squad. An intra- 
lural sport, wrestling may soon gain varsity status.
Mramural Roundup
Seven Undefeated Volleyball 
Teams Seek IM Championship
With the season just about half over, the competition for the 
•chool volleyball championship continues its torrid pace. Seven teams 
•port undefeated records to date; but with winner meeting winner 
tome are bound to fall. ?SAE team 3 to 1. TX whippedThree Team Battle
In the Tartan league the race 
for leader is very close with three
TDP 3 to 1, and PiKA downed 
BTP “B” 4 to 0.
Boivling
Bowling entries are due on December 4 at 4:30 p.m. Fees 
will be determined by the number of entries and will be due December 8.
Fraternities and Sororities
Open An Account and Get 
TOUR FULL DISCOUNT
OAKLAND HARDWARE
k—A— 9hNRfb bMp
SEE WHAT 
YOU SAVE 
WITH THELowest-Priced Line in its Field!
2Hi v,kVAAA 9HNbM 5NH8f Hi M'3 efifN-d whMhNb gHMMHN 'He'2-cb -2-N*b
162 awards totalling $194,000. Com* In for free "Fact* Book” containing entry blank and complete detail« of contest.
SEE YOUR CHEVROLET DEALER FOR ALL YOUR AUTOMOTIVE NEEDS!
Conveniently listed under ”Automobiles” In your local classified telephone directory
Mc5f2NHMfNb vLA 0A
All Kind* M Low as
NfiM - Mc5f2NHMfN
‘4.00
A Month
Page 6—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, November 25, 1952
3 MONTHS FOR $10
American Typewriter Co.
gg 2ssm brp 7ApgEgAgI
Cenvenirnt Parkin* w 9 9
S^portdcope . . .
- by FRANK FEGLEY, Sports Editor 
Anether football year has drawn to a close. The Tartans com­
pleted their fourth consecutive victorious season, winning four while 
dropping three, but failed to stimulate student interest to the point
of attending the games en masse.
Sportsdom Lacks School Spirit
The stirring results of our de-emphasized program have been 
quite evident. The stress-scholarship plan is bolstered, the players 
have fun playing, but few people seem to care for our athletics.- 
There is no room for the avid sports fan.
An innovation on this campus, the pep squad has been form­
ed in order to promote school spirit. Even our football schedule 
has been revised. California State Teachers College and Bethany 
have been dropped, whereas bigger drawing cards, Westminster 
and Geneva have been added. Our athletic department has even 
contemplated throwing our weekend-by-policy gridders against 
big name teams.
Can the present athletic situation* be modified without disrupt­
ing the school de-emphasis policy?
Intramurals Gain Stature 
Intramural sports continue on the upswing. This year there are 
more students participating, and more enthusiasm is being shown 
than ever before.
Some of the crucial football games drew crowds rivalling the 
attendance at some of the varsity games, and one of the fra­
ternity teams even had its own band and cheering section.
Sigma Nu emerged as the all school football champions, but were 
defeated by a Duquesne University aggregation in a playoff for the 
city title.
Again this year, the faculty club is represented in the volley­
ball competition. The “Faculty Bulldogs,” composed of pro­
fessors Burnall, Birdy, Dorff, Gregg, Haynes, Meachem, Owen, 
Smith, Steinberg, Succop, and Daily, have won four games and 
lost one so far. They are managed by professor Dale Strick. 
Basketball Games Next 
The basketball season is just around the corner.
Coach Mel Cratsley seems to be a bit pessimistic in viewing the 
prospects this year. To quote the coach, “The loss of Tommy Beck 
adn Hillary Holste will be keenly felt. Tom Craig and Kaye Thomp­
son will be back to help us along. If we get off to a good start, we 
should be able to hold our own.”
teams still undefeated. Beta Theta 
Pi, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, and the 
Sekuds have 4-0, 5-0, and 4-0 rec­
ords respectively. The Betas won 
two last week while SAE grabbed 
one. The Sekuds downed previ­
ously unconquered Theta Xi “B” 
in a hard fought battle 15-13, 15-9.
Faculty Beaten 
The Sigma Nu “A” squad gave 
an indication of being the team to 
beat in the Kiltie league race as 
they turned back the powerful 
Faculty group 15-11, 16-14. The 
defeat pushed the Faculty back to 
»econd place, with Citcom and 
Roopsips in the show position. 
Citcom decisioned Kappa Sig and 
Roopsips slipped by Delta Tau 
Delta, so both now have 3-1 charts.
ATO Leads 
By racking up three wins last 
week, Alpha Tau Omega “A” 
moved into the lead in the Plaid league with a 5-0 record. The well-balanced‘ATO squad admin­
istered a shellacking to Theta Xi “A” running up scores of 15-2 and 
15-3. However the Obelisks and Kappa Sig “A” are still in the 
thick of it and neither has been beaten so far, although they have 
not played as much as ATO. Roopsips “B” and Theta Xi “A” 
lost to the Obelisks with Kappa Sig dropping the Slugs.
Table Tennis The Table Tehnis season got off 
to a slow start with just a few 
games being played the first week. The favored and defending champs, ATO, “T” extended their winning streak by beating the SN team three to one. Other winners 
in the Republican league were Obelisks over BSR “B” by 3 to 1, and the Phi Kaps over Delta Tau Delta 3 to 2. In the Democratic 
league, the ATO “O” beat the
Come see for yourself !
See why you can be sore you get the deal 
you deserve here. See how you get more with 
Chevrolet...pay less with our low prices.
See for yourself...
There's W0 Value like 
CHEVROLET Value/
This beautiful Stylellne De Luxe 4-Door Sedan Hits 
for leu than any comparable model in its field- 
(Continuation of standard equipment and trim 
illustrated it dependent on availability of material.)
SEE WHAT YOU GAIN 
WITH THESE EXCLUSIVE 
CHEVROLET FEATURES
More Powerful Valve-in-Head Engine 
with Powerglide Automatic Transmis­
sion (optional on De Luxe models at 
extra cost) • Body by Fisher • Center-
poise Power • Safety Plate Glass all 
around, with E-Z-Eye plate glass (op­
tional at extra cost) • Largest Brakes in 
its field • Unitized Knee-Action Ride.

---------------------------------------------------

rayC[ia upgrTO
«iîtfrs
I Medko «»« mod#,
«J £*qvhHe Burgundy Finish
MEDICO V.F.Q.-*2 With Roy RalPR rtbe5! 
Exclusive! Guaranteed Bite-Proof! I
Odorless! Tasteless! Cushion Bite I
MEDICO MEDALIST—*1.50
When filter turns brown—in Medico Pipes Cigarette Holders—throw I 
it away, with nico- 
tine, juices, flakes, _ 
tars it has trapped.
Insert a fresh filter 
for cooler, cleaner J
and dryer emokinfr Mx *1 ^Imported Briar. 10 tm»r»-10«
Widt variety of ityl« on<t mh.
Writ* Medico Pipe* Inc.N.T.22, for loolile« Oj
Tuesday, November 25, 1»52—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Pagre T
\ \
Termsalow$* |*.
// ir/7 # jh/
AAIÆÆ Vy -
Page- edited by Evening School Students of the Carnegie Insti­
tute of Technology.
Editor ............................................................................. Victor Sabol
Reporters............. Anna Mae Legosh, Charles Keller, Ray Schwalm
Letter Pays! 
Trip Made
Teacher Added to Lab; 
Field Trip To Foundry
Letters to the Editor do pay 
off! The letter of Nov. 17 which 
complained about the understaffed 
mechanical laboratory has result­
ed in the addition of one instruc­
tor to this important course. It is 
hoped that he will be able to facil­
itate the program of studies.
Mr. C. S. Campbell, instructor 
of the equipment and methods 
class, was fortunate in being able 
to arrange a field trip for the 
class through the American Steel 
Foundries plant in Verona. The 
trip proved to be very enlighten- 
f ing, especially from the standpoint 
of the plant layout. A foundry 
plant layout is a term project of 
the class. Mr. R. Anderson, of the 
firm which was visited, is to be 
congratulated on the well con­
ducted tour.
Students in the mechanical en­gineering minor classes certainly 
are getting their money’s worth judging from some of the com- 
“i ments being heard. It seems that a general lab course is being cram­med with enough technical data that tfcese students will be giving the regular’mechanical engineer­
ing students a run for jobs re­quiring power plant designers.
Seemillers 
Luncheonette
4601 Forbes Street
Corner Forbes and Craig
Complete 
Short Order Service
SChenley 1-9894
Ramblers Play, 
Beginners Learn 
In Square Dance
Jo Davidson’s Ramblers fur­
nished a fine evening of entertain­
ment Saturday, November 15. For 
the crowd who attended the 
square dance, Thistle hall proved 
to be of sufficient size to accommo­
date the dancers gyrating through 
several novel forms of that great 
American mixer — the square 
dance. After a few simple demon­
strations, those who had never in­
dulged before were soon able to follow through with some of the intricate steps like old timers.
The Black Cat did its usual rush 
business between sets.
Phi Gam News; 
Meeting Held
A business meeting and tea for 
members of Phi Gamma Pi soror­
ity was held at the home of Jean 
Woods on Sunday, November 16.
A merit system for participation 
in social activities was discussed. 
Dorothy Burt was appointed chair­
man of the committee formulating 
plans for the establishment of 
such a system on a trial basis.
Tickets for the Christmas party 
for orphans on December 14 were 
distributed. Marjorie Reed will be chairman of the program commit­
tee, while gifts for the boys and girls are being prepared by Ellen Gonter.
It’was the concensus of opinion that the spring rushing period was 
not satisfactory and that if it were held in the fall of each year, it would better fit in the schedule 
of the sorority’s activities. This year it will be held as scheduled but the following year, rushing will begin in the fall.
It was announced that the moth­ers’ tea will be held January 11, and Mrs. Rosalie Hagins wil]t be guest speaker.
Preliminary plans for a “Class­mate Carnival” party were outlin­
ed briefly. The date and details for the party will be formulated at a 
later time.
Help Wanted
MALE AND FEMALE
Reporters—Any evening student wanting to earn points toward 
an Insignia Award. Articles up to 150 words—one-half point, 150 to 
500 words.—1 point. Inquire Plaid Editor, C.I.T., Box 256.
Typists—Students with any typing whatsoever needed for Plaid 
work. For articles of 200 to 250 words one point can be secured— 
articles of 250 words and up, a weekly salary of 2 points will be paid.
Circulation Personnel—Students wanted willing to distribute the 
Plaid in the various buildings on the campus. Pay one-fourth point 
for pick-up or delivery per evening. Inquire Plaid circulation mana­
ger, C.I.T., Box 256. (Maximum points toward Insignia—8).
Note: Plaid Hours are Friday evening from 8 to ?. Offices lo­
cated on the third floor of the Carnegie Union, Forbes street.
General—Any student willing to help Evening Student Council 
in any way during the coming year is asked to send his or her name 
to Evening Student Council, Box 256, C.I.T., stating the nature and 
exten of his services. All letters should be put in the intra­
school mail slot, located in the post office opposite the book store.
LUCKIES TASTE 
BETTER!
They’re made better to taste 
cleaner, fresher, smoother!
Ask yourself this question: Why do I smoke?
You know, yourself, you smoke for enjoy­
ment. And you get enjoyment only from 
the taste of a cigarette.
Luckies taste better—cleaner, fresher, 
smoother! Why? Because Luckies are 
made better to taste better. And, what’s 
more, Luckies are made of fine tobacco. 
L.S./M.F.T.—Lucky Strike Means Fine 
Tobacco.
So, for the thing you want mojt in a ciga­
rette ... for better taste—cleaner, fresher, 
smoother taste ... Be Happy—Go Lucky!
• upntfomc°*csUp'
I'm always 4**^ things I W* -
She bjrtn'^ Q candy» * \
Connerficu.
© A. T. Co.Be Happy-GO LUCKY!
9hN - Bdf-ifNV 9Nfb'fNV
bwhhM'fN bwh3f ppV
PRODUCT orAMERICA’S UUMMC MANUFACTURES 0T CIGARETTM

---------------------------------------------------

Paçe 8—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, November 25, 1952
I always smoked Chesterfields in college just like 
my friends" says New York secretary, Elizabeth 
Lydon, "and here in New York it seems like almost 
everyone smokes them.'
DUKE ’51
AND NOW- CHESTERFIELD FIRST 
TO GIVE YOU SCIENTIFIC FACTS 
IN SUPPORT OF SMOKING
A responsible consulting organization reports a study by a 
competent medical specialist and staff on the effects of smoking 
Chesterfields. For six months a group of men and women 
smoked only Chesterfield—10 to 40 a day—their normal amount. 
45 percent of the group have smoked Chesterfields from one to 
thirty years for an average of ten years each.
At the beginning and end of the six-months, each smoker was 
given a thorough examination including X-rays, and covering 
the sinuses, nose, ears and throat. After these examinations, 
the medical specialist stated . . .
"It is my opinion that the ears, nose, throat and acces­
sory organs of all participating subjects examined by me 
were not adversely affected in the six-months period by 
smoking the cigarettes provided/
Highways Essay Has 
National Competition
General Motors has offered $194,000 in cash awards for the best 
ideas to get America’s highway and traffic system “out of the muddle.” 
The prizes are being posted by GM in a national essay contest, 
largest of its kind ever attempted, in an effort to stimulate “more
nation-wide thinking, discussion#------------------------------------------------*
and understanding of the facts oi Columbia will receive $1,500 each.our current highway require­
ments.”C. E. Wilson, president of Gen­
eral Motors, announced the open­ing of the contest at a dinner held 
in Detroit Monday, November 10, attended by many of the nation’s 
leading highway authorities.
Known as the General Motors Better Highways awards, the com­
petition is open to any resident 
of the United States, except con­test judges and tVjeir immediate 
families.
PrizesOne hundred sixty-two nation­
al, regional and state prizes will 
be offered to winners, topped by a $25,000 first place national award. 
Second place national winner will 
receive $10,000; third place nation­ally, $5.000; and three national, 
honorable mentions will get $3,000 each.
In addition, General Motors will 
offer nine awards of $2,500 each 
for the best essays submitted from 
nine regional areas of the country.
First place winners in each of 
the 48 states plus the District of
Two honorable meMion awards 
for each state and the District of 
Columbia will be $500 each, a to­
tal of 98 state honorable mentions.Entry Blanks The essay subject will be: “How 
to Plan and Pay for the Safe and 
Adequate Roads We Need.”Officially begun Tuesday, No­
vember 11, the contest closes at 
midnight March 1. Awards will be announced as soon as possible 
thereafter.
Entry blanks may be obtained at any General Motors car or 
truck dealership or by writing to 
General Motors Better Highways 
awards, General Motors Building, Detroit 2, Michigan.
With each entry blank a pros­
pective contestant will receive a Better Highways award fact book. 
This not only contains contest 
rules but also outlines basic sta­
tistics and facts about the nation’s overall highway problem.
Brevity Suggested Mr. Wilson emphasized that es­
says will not be judged on lit­
erary merit. Rather, criteria will
Reporter
Anyone interested in work­
ing as the Inquiring Reporter 
for the Tartan is requested to 
call Fred Sonnenberg at MU 
1-5380 any evening. It is not 
necessary to have any previ­
ous experience or be able to 
take pictures.
be the essay’s originality, sincerity and practical adapatability.While brevity is suggested, no 
limitation is placed on the length 
of the essay. Each contestant may submit any Supporting data be­
lieved necessary to document his presentation — graphs, charts, 
drawings, photographs, estimates or other illustrations.
GM Seeks Answer 
Mr. Wilson explained that the contest is designed to energize “a great national educational pro­gram.
“We hope it will get millions of our people thinking and asking 
questions about the current high­
way problem,” he said. “And we hope it will help answer problems of financing, planning and admin­
istration that are involved.”
No Panaceas He added that General Motors expects “no panaceas, no instant rem«dies” to cure the nation’s highway ills.“It’s going to take time and effort and persistence,” he de­clared. “It will take a lot of money to get us out of this muddle, but 
it will cost us more to stay in.”
Omicron Nil 
Initiates Six
Home Ec Society 
Honors Top Students
The second initiation of Alpha 
Xi chapter of Omicron Nu, na­
tional home economics honorary, 
took place on November 13, 1952. 
One graduate, four seniors, and 
one junior were installed in a 
ceremony at Margaret Morrison 
Carnegie College.
Mrs. Helen J. Cacheris, a gi’ad- 
uate from Tech in 1946, and pres­
ent chief of menu planning for 
the U. S. Army and Air Forces, 
flew to Pittsburgh from Washing­
ton to be initiated in the Tech 
chapter.
The students who were invited 
to membership on the basis of 
their scholarship and leadership 
include Louanne Barberie, Ruth 
Fulton, Joan Sergie, Dorothy 
Staiger, (seniors) and Joan Stew­
art (junior).
The Alpha Xi chapter was in­
stalled at Tech in March 1951 and 
has made plans to carry through the purposes of the national hon­orary: the promotion of scholar­
ship, leadership, and research in 
the field of home economics.
Technical—
[Continued from page 1 ] 
ance. The greatest opportunity is 
for secretaries who are badly 
needed. Also in demand are writ­ers, layout men, etc. The office on 
the third floor of the Union opens Friday nights a little after seven. Those interested in becoming part of the staff should visit the of­fice and ask for Bill Smith, man­aging editor, who will insure a spot in the organization.
Issues can be obtained in the bookstore and subscriptions may 
be had by a note in the intra­school mail addressed to the Car­negie Technical.
Elections
Student Council elections 
will be held Wednesday, De­
cember 17. Petitions are ob­
tainable at the Dean of Stu­
dents’ Office and must be re­
turned there no later than 4:30 
p.m. Friday, December 5.* 
Campaigning may begin Mon* 
day, December 1.
The following vacancies are 
to be filled: E&S (4), FA (1), 
MMCC (2). There is one half- 
term (one semester only) va­
cancy to be filled in E&S and 
one in H&SS. The position of 
assistant secretary is open to 
any junior in Margaret Mor­
rison College.
Remember this report and buy Chesterfields. •. regular or
king-size.
