Inside
Calendar...Classified...Comics.....Diversions...
Living......Forum......Sports......
..L12
.....7
....L4
....L7
Features
Figuring out financial aid 
• see page LI
'Diversions
àèï
A Capella groups sing out!
ill• see page L7
Simona Lo/Tartan Art Co-editor
Forum
Learn how to be funny 
• see page 4
THE TARTAN
Volume Si, Issue imCarnegie Mellon University’s Student Newspaper Since iSmoii November iSSo
CMU police examine 
Wean computer theft
By BETTY SHEA
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Theft is the number one crime at uni­
versities across the United States, and 
CMU is no execption, according to Rich­
ard Sima, CMU Campus Police officer.
On Saturday, November 2, at 12:54 
pm, Campus Police was alerted that a 
irand new computer was stolen from a 
Materials Science Engineering Depart­
ment office. The machine was a Power 
Macintosh model 3500-150MHZ, with 
monitors and a zip drive. The esti­
mated value of the entire system is 
around $4,000.
Accordingto the filed theft report, “there 
¡[were] no visual signs of forced entry.” 
Sima, who has been on the campus police 
force for 21 years, estimates that in most 
cases (around 95 percent of the time), 
thieves do not resort to break-ins. Rather, 
large proportion of thefts occur when 
jople leave their doors unlocked. Com­
menting on the recent theft, Sima says, 
“It appears that the [computer! system 
was newly installed and the department 
didn’t have time to install a security 
system. To remove a computer like that 
.. indicates that somebody has access to 
the area, or the area was left insecure.” 
Sima added that one of the reasons 
why this crime occurred may be that 
people tend to lend their keys out rather 
loosely. Sima said, “It’s kind of like giv­
ing someone an invitation.” The theft 
report reveals that “nine people have
key access to the area [where the com­
puter was stolen.]”
When asked about Campus Police 
sponsored events that emphasize crime 
prevention, Sergeant Sima said that 
the campus security division has been 
asked to give talks and presentations 
to concerned members of the CMU com­
munity in the past. He also notes, how­
ever, that the popularity of such events 
has dropped in the last few years.
“People aren’t interested [in crime 
prevention activities] until some­
thing big happens.... [Before this 
incident,] the last time it [a serious 
theft] happened was about a year 
ago.” Sima alluded to the stealing of 
memory (RAM) chips from the Wean 
cluster.
In the meantime, the case has been 
assigned to a campus detective, and 
investigation is still underway. When 
asked how members of the CMU 
population can better protect their 
property from theft, Sima said, “Don’t 
lend keys out that are assigned to 
you for specific reasons. Also, even if 
you are leaving your room for just 
one minute, don’t leave your door 
unlocked. ... We’ve shown a video of 
someone going through the contents 
of another person’s purse, and the 
whole thing took less than a minute. 
Some people say [after a theft] that 
they were only out of the room for a 
minute or so. Sometimes it doesn’t 
take a minute.”
CMU honors Andy Award winners
Tony Chao/Tartan Photo Staff Manager
The third annual Andy Awards honoring CMU faculty and staff were held last Wednesday in McConomy Auditorium. The three 
individual award winners are (left to right) Ken Meyer, Anne Marie Bosnyack, and Marvin Pflaum.
BY ANNE RAY
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Last Wednesday, while McConomy 
Auditorium was overflowing with 
spectators, 44 eligible nominees for 
the 1996 Andy Awards sat in antici­
pation. These annual awards honor 
CMU staff and faculty for their out­
standing contributions to the campus 
community.
This year, there were three indi­
vidual Andy Awards presented to 
Marvin Pflaum, Anne Marie 
Bosnyack, and Ken Meyer for excel­
lence in their fields, and also two team 
awards given to the Child Care Cen­
ter Staff arid thè DRIVE team. There
was also a new category in the 
ceremony’s two year history, a special 
Judges’ Award which was presented 
to the Gounds Crew.
The nominees for each category had 
to meet certain criteria. The Excel­
lence in Satisfying Customers cat­
egory, “honors those who have signifi­
cantly improved customer service ... 
[and] generated exceptional commu­
nication, cooperation, and collabora­
tion with University customers,” ac­
cordingto the ceremony brochure. This 
award went to Meyer, machine shop 
foreman in the chemical engineering 
department, for his work in building 
research apparatus for CMU as well 
as other universities.
Pflaum, who works in the benefits 
department of Human Resources, re­
ceived an Andy Award for University 
Citizenship, a category in which nomi­
nees must demonstrate “exceptional 
ability to foster collaboration, communi­
cation and cooperation among Univer­
sity constituents and whose consistent 
committment ... transcends organiza­
tional boundaries.”
According to the ceremony bro­
chure, the Excellence in Increasing 
Productivity category “recognizes 
those who ... have improved a work 
process or system and helped im­
prove productivity, reduced costs, in­
creased revenues ... and eliminated 
Please see AWARDS, page 3
Leaders ask Clinton 
to fight proposition
WASHINGTON. Nov. 8 (AP)
— Civil rights leaders met pri­
vately with White House and 
Justice Department officials 
Friday to urge the Clinton ad­
ministration to lead the fight 
against California’s anti-affir­
mative action proposition.
Proposition 209, which voters 
approved Tuesday by a 54-to-46 
percent margin, now amends 
California’s state Constitution to 
ban race and gendér consider­
ations in public hiring, contract­
ing, and college admissions.
President Clinton was out­
spokenly opposed to the mea­
sure during the campaign, say­
ing of affirmative action, “Mend 
it. Don’t end it.” Republican 
presidential nominee Bob Dole 
supported Proposition 209.
The Reverend Jesse Jackson 
and Patricia Ireland, president 
of the National Organization 
for Women, told officials that 
the Justice Department should 
lead the battle against the 
proposition in court. The gov­
ernment also should withhold 
funds from the University of 
California, one of the 
government’s biggest contrac­
tors, on the basis of federal civil 
rights laws, they said.
“If this were Mississippi pass- 
lng such a referendum rather 
than California, the reaction 
would be much different,” Jack­
son said after meeting with 
Deval Patrick, assistant attor­
ney general for civil rights. Ear­
ner, Jackson met at the White 
House with Deputy Chief of 
Staff Harold Ickes, he said.
“The government must pro­
tect the most vulnerable,” he 
told reporters.
Ireland said they have no 
commitment of any sort” from 
administration officials. “But
they’re clearly looking at it. 
They’re clearly concerned.”
Jackson noted, “There’s some 
measure of paralysis because 
of the transition of offices.”
There was no immediate com­
ment from the White House. A 
Justice Department spokesman 
said officials there will continue 
to review the proposition and 
monitor any court action on it.
Attorney General Janet Rerio 
said Thursday that California’s 
proposition “does not affect fed­
eral law.”
“We’re going to continue to do 
everything we can to make sure 
that affirmative action processes 
are in place that are fair, that 
meet the test of the law, and 
that provide an opportunity for 
people who have been discrimi­
nated against historically to 
have the opportunity to achieve 
their full potential,” Reno said 
at her weekly news briefing.
Jackson said the government 
could deny federal funds to the 
University of California based 
on Title 6 of the Civil Rights 
Act, which prohibits federal 
funds from being used in a dis­
criminatory manner, and Title 
9, which bars discrimination 
against women in education.
The American Civil Liberties 
Union filed a class-action suit 
against the proposition Wednes­
day in U.S. District Court in 
San Francisco. Although Propo­
sition 209 technically took ef­
fect immediately, such a law­
suit could tie it up for years.
On the other side, the Pacific 
Legal Foundation filed a law­
suit Wednesday to start en­
forcement of the proposition. 
Foundation attorney Sharon 
Browne said, “We want to make 
sure that the will of the people 
is recognized.”
Professor emeritus succumbs to cancer
By SHEILA M. FLANAGAN
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Dr. Richard J. Duffin, emeritus 
University Professor of Math­
ematical Sciences, passed away 
on Tuesday, October 29 following 
a long battle with colon cancer. 
Duffin was 87.
Remembered as a highly intel­
ligent man with a mind for more 
than just mathematics, profes­
sor Duffin not only made numer­
ous contributions to the math­
ematical world during his ca­
reer, but he also dedicated his 
life to his students.
Duffin, professor emeritus at 
Carnegie Mellon since 1988, 
joined the Department of Math­
ematics in 1946. He regularly 
taught undergraduate courses in 
applied mathematics and super­
vised the graduate research stu­
dents. Many of his students went 
on to achieve prominence in the 
world of education and industry, 
including Raoul Bott, Hans 
Weinberger, and John Nash, win­
ner of the Nobel Prize for eco­
nomics in 1994.
Duffin obtained his Ph.D. in 
physics with a concentration in 
the study of mathematics from 
the University of Illinois, after 
which he became a mathemat­
ics instructor at Purdue Uni­
versity. He returned to Illinois 
as an assistant professor until 
World War II.
During the war, Duffin was 
involved in the development 
of navigational devices and 
electronic instruments for de­
tecting magnetic fields at the 
Carnegie Institution of Wash­
ington.
Duffin was also an invited 
lecturer at numerous institu­
tions and was a visiting profes­
sor at Purdue, the Dublin In­
stitute for Advanced Studies, 
Texas A&M University, and 
Duke University, where he was 
director of special research in 
applied mathematics.
Duffin has received vari­
ous distinctions and awards 
including an induction into 
The American Academy of 
Arts and Sciences and the 
National Academy of Sci­
ences. He received the Von 
Neumann Theory Prize of 
the Operations Research 
Society of America and the 
Monie A. Ferst Award of 
the Sigma Xi Society for 
“motivating students to 
seek careers in scientific re­
search.” In addition, he pro­
duced a book in collabora­
tion with Elmer Peterson 
and Clarence Zener, “Geo­
metric Programming,” 
which introduced a new 
method for optimizing a 
class of engineering de­
signs.
While Duffin dedicated his 
life to mathematics, it was by 
no means his only interest. 
Duffin had a special interest 
in subjects such as poetry and 
classical music. According to 
Dr. Bill Williams, professor 
of mathematics at CMU, 
“Dick was a very interesting 
guy ... he was interested and 
good at almost everything.”
Despite his well-rounded, 
intellectual nature, Duffin 
was noted for his unpreten­
tious demeanor. According to 
Walter Noll, emeritus profes­
sor of mathematics at CMU, 
“Dr. Duffin was a very unas-
Courtesy University Relations
Richard J. Duffin, professor emeritus of mathematics at CMU since 1988, 
passed away October 29. He was 87.
he had at one time which Duffin 
bought for $50 for use at his 
summer home in Michigan. “He 
didn’t really care if his car was
“Dick was ... interested and good at 
almost everything. ”
— Dr. Bill Williams, 
mathematics professor
suming person.... he was the 
opposite of ostentatious. In gen­
eral, he was not taken by exter­
nal things.” Dr. Noll recalled a 
run-down 10-year old car that
new and shined up,” added Noll 
with a laugh.
Duffin was also noted for his 
congenial attitude. Dr. James 
Greenberg, head of the Depart-
ment of Mathematics at CMU 
said in reference to Duffin, “[He 
was] charming...I knew Dick in 
the late ’60s and we lost touch 
after I left the department un­
til I came back last year, but he 
was a really wonderful guy.” 
Noll also noted that while “some 
of his [Duffin’s] jokes were on 
the corny side, he was always a 
very pleasant person to be 
with.... he was very compan­
ionable.”
Duffin is survived by two 
daughters, Martha and Ginny. 
Memorial contributions may be 
made to the Richard J. and 
Jeanne H. Duffin Scholarship 
Fund at Carnegie Mellon.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 11 November 19962
naL/ T• •
Key cabinet members 
plan to leave President
WASHINGTON, Nov. 7 (UPI)—Sev­
eral top U.S. cabinet members, includ­
ing Secretary of State Warren Christo­
pher, who has played a key role in 
Middle East policy, intend to leave the 
Clinton administration, giving the tri­
umphant President Clinton the task of 
replacing several key members of his 
team as he prepares for a second term.
Christopher, Defense Secretary Wil­
liam Perry, and Energy Secretary 
Hazel O’Leary are planning to resign, 
and some think that Commerce Secre­
tary Mickey Kantor will be resigning 
as well.
In addition, White House Chief of 
Staff Leon Panetta has let it be known 
he is quitting, and rumors swirl that 
other top administration officials may 
jump ship.
Christopher, who is scheduled to 
make several trips to Europe, one to 
Egypt and another to China in coming 
months, plans to remain in his post 
until Clinton is sworn in January 20 
for a second term, officials said.
U.S. officials said that Clinton is 
currently considering three possible 
successors to Christopher: former 
Senator George Mitchell, U.N. Repre­
sentative Madeleine Albright and na­
tional security adviser Anthony Lake.
But Clinton “has not ruled out” former 
Assistant Secretary of State Richard 
Holbrooke, the architect of the Balkan 
peace accord, and Senator Sam Nunn, 
they said.
Officials said Perry told Clinton he 
will resign. Pentagon officials, speaking 
under conditions of anonymity, told re­
porters Perry will remain in his post 
until Clinton finds a suitable successor.
Perry served as Secretary of De­
fense in the latter half of Clinton’s 
first term, moving up from deputy 
secretary to take over on February 3, 
1994, for Les Aspin, who resigned un­
der pressure late in 1993.
O’Leary, an attorney, was Energy 
Secretary for Clinton’s full first term. 
She drew fire for alleged wasteful 
spending, reprimanded by senior 
White House officials Dec. 11, 1995, 
for making extravagant travel expen­
ditures on trips overseas.
Kantor is a long time Clinton repre­
sentative who served as U.S. trade 
representative and stepped in to the 
Commerce job after Ron Brown died in 
a plane crash last April.
Asked about reports that Kantor 
was quitting, a Commerce Department 
spokesperson said simply, “He’s mak­
ing plans to return to private life.”
States urge Supreme Court to deny the right to suicide
WASHINGTON, Nov. 8 (AP) — 
Twenty states joined in urging the Su­
preme Court to reject the notion that 
terminally ill people have a constitu­
tional right to doctor-assisted suicide.
“At stake ... are, first and foremost, 
the lives of the people, both those who 
wish to die, and those who wish to live 
no matter what their circumstance,” 
the nine justices were told in two 
friend-of-the-court briefs.
The court last month agreed to de­
cide by July, in cases from New York 
and Washington state, whether states 
may prohibit doctors from prescribing 
life-ending drugs for mentally compe­
tent but terminally ill patients who no 
longer want to live.
Lower courts invalidated bans in New 
York and Washington state, and both 
states are appealing those rulings.
Individuals, organizations, and gov­
ernments urging reversal of the lower 
court rulings must file their friend-of- 
the-court briefs byTuesday. Those urg­
ing that the rulings be upheld, for 
recognition of the disputed right, face 
a Dec. 10 deadline.
The briefs in behalf of 20 states were 
submitted by California Attorney Gen­
eral Daniel Lungren, who argued that 
there is ho way to limit a right to 
assisted suicide to people who are ter­
minally ill.
‘The next question will be whether 
those who are neither terminally ill 
nor mentally competent can likewise 
exercise these new liberty interests to 
commit suicide and assisted suicide,” 
he said. “The question of whether the 
states may prohibit active voluntary 
euthanasia, as opposed to suicide and 
assisted suicide, will likewise be on 
the horizon.”
The briefs were filed in behalf of 
California, Alabama, Colorado, 
Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Iowa, Loui­
siana, Maryland, Michigan, Missis­
sippi, Montana, Nebraska, New Hamp­
shire, South Carolina, South Dakota, 
Tennessee, and Virginia.
New York joined in the brief filed in 
the Washington state case, and Wash­
ington joined in the brief filed in the 
case from New York.
It is unknown whether the Clinton 
administration will file a brief. The 
federal government, through Veterans 
Administration hospitals, is one of the 
nation’s largest health care providers.
Unemployment troubles Canada
OTTAWA. Nov. 8 (AP) — The Bank of 
Canada cut its key interest rate to 3.25 
percent Thursday, the lowest since 1956, 
as the national jobless rate rose to 10 
percent last month and housing starts 
slipped unexpectedly.
The central bank has been aggres­
sively cutting rates to stimulate growth 
in a sluggish economy.
The bank rate, which had been 3.5 
percent, fell for the 11th time this year. 
The rate is what Bank of Canada charges 
for lending to commercial banks.
Major banks responded, cutting the 
prime lending rate—the benchmark for 
other loans — down to 4.75 percent ef­
fective Tuesday.
The cuts came shortly after the gov­
ernment reported an increase in the 
unemployment rate from the Septem­
ber level of 9.9 percent. The jump in the 
jobless rate came even though 42,000 
jobs were created last month.
Meanwhile, the Canada Mortgage and 
Housing Corp. reported that housing 
starts in October were 9.8 percent below 
September levels.
Controversy grows over crash cause
CANNES, France, Nov. 8 (Reuter) — 
Former White House press secretary 
Pierre Salinger said on Friday the evi­
dence for his charge that a U.S. Navy 
missile accidentally shot down a TWA 
airliner last July had circulated for some 
time on the Internet.
Salinger, the press spokesman for the 
late president John F. Kennedy and later 
Paris bureau chief for the U.S. television 
network ABC, also acknowledged in an 
interview on French television channel 
TF1 that he got the document, which he 
initially said came from a U.S. secret 
service agent, second-hand from an un­
named Frenchman.
“Actually, I found out last night that it 
had been on the Internet for two months,” 
he told TF1 in French.
“CNN, who told me they found it on 
the Internet, read the letter to me, and 
this was the letter I had,” he said.
Salinger, 71, nevertheless stood by 
the document’s allegation that the crash 
of the Boeing 747 near New York on July 
17, in which 230 people died, was caused 
by a missile test.
After saying initially he had been given 
the document in Paris by a U.S. secret 
service agent, he later told TF1 he re­
ceived it five weeks ago “from a French­
man involved in various government 
things who had met a man from the U.S. 
Secret Service who had written a paper 
on what happened in the TWA crash.” 
The U.S. Federal Bureau of Investiga­
tion, the U.S. Defense Department, and 
the U.S. Navy insist there is no evidence 
that a missile was involved in the crash.
There has been no verdict yet in the 
official probe.
Salinger said the document showed 
that the Navy had conducted the test at 
an altitude of 13,000 feet in the belief 
that all aircraft in the area were flying 
at 21,000 feet.
The military was unaware that Trans 
World Airlines flight 800 had taken off 
late because of heavy traffic and was 
flying lower than expected to stay clear 
of another aircraft, he said.
The airport control tower, in “a tragic er­
ror,” didn’t inform the Navy, Salinger said.
“There is a lot of proof for the docu­
ment. I have since talked to several 
individuals who have upheld what the 
agent said,” he said. “The truth must 
come out.”
Salinger said he decided to make his 
allegations after the French weekly, 
Paris Match, published a “very impor­
tant” picture and “no one in the United 
States looked at this for one second.” 
The picture, said to have been taken 
during a party on Long Island at the time 
of the crash, appeared to show a missile­
like object streaking through the sky. 
Salinger said he had passed on his
information to ABC, which told hij^ 
“Now is not the time.”
He accused the U.S. government of 
clamping a news blackout on the crash.
In Paris, a lawyer for the relatives of 
the 45 French citizens killed on board 
the airliner said he asked investigating: 
magistrate Chantal Perdrix to question 
Salinger and have the Paris Match pic. 
ture scrutinized by police experts.
“I think Pierre Salinger’s statement 
should not be taken lightly,” lawyer 
Gilles-Jean Portejoie told Reuters.
Perdrix has opened a probe into the 
crash to determine whether manslaugh- 
ter or murder charges are warranted.
Investigators have recovered most of 
the wreckage but are still dredging the 
seabed off Long Island for evidence to 
explain the crash. They have established 
that a fuel tank exploded, but not what 
set off the blast.
Pittsburgh police anger the ACLU
PITTSBURGH. Nov. 8 (AP) — Com- 
mon Pleas Court President Judge Rob­
ert Dauer said he will warn Allegheny 
County district justices to follow proper 
guidelines for jailing people convicted of 
minor offenses.
The American Civil Liberties Union 
told Dauer that defendants in the county 
court system are not given the benefit of 
an attorney or a chance to appeal their 
cases.
Dauer was tracked down Thursday by 
Witold Walczak, executive director of 
the ACLU’s Pittsburgh chapter, to 
a release order for Robert Blair, 35, of 
Monroeville.
Blair pleaded guilty to a harassment, 
charge and was immediately imprisoned 
instead of getting the required 30 
to appeal, Walczak said.
“We’ve had this problem before,” said 
Dauer, who was angered by the case. He 
sent a letter Friday to all county district 
justices warning them about using 
proper procedure in their courtrooms.named Frenchman. Salinger said he had passed on his proper procedure in their courtrooms.
Planners prepare for stage version of “The Lion King
NEW YORK. Nov. 7 (AP)—“The Lion weeks at Minneapolis’ Orpheum The- “‘The Lion King5 is a universal stonNEW YORK. Nov. 7 (AP)—“The Lion 
King” will roar on Broadway next sea­
son. A stage version of the Walt Disney 
animated film will open in the fall of
1997 at the New Amsterdam Theater, 
the historic Ziegfeld playhouse that 
Disney is restoring on 42nd Street, com­
pany officials announced Wednesday.
The director will be Julie Taymor, 
known for her inventive, puppet-filled 
stage extravaganzas like “Juan Darien” 
and “The Green Bird.” Casting is cur­
rently underway.
“It will be a very visual show,” Taymor 
said. “I am inventing things for this 
show that I’ve never done before. It’s 
going to take a lot of rehearsal time. 
That’s why I’m grateful for an out-of- 
town opportunity.”
“The Lion King,” which features a cast 
of over 50 performers, will play for eight
weeks at Minneapolis’ Orpheum The­
ater starting next July before coming to 
New York. Pre-production work has been 
extensive.
“We are well down the road with this 
thing,” Thomas Schumacher, co-direc­
tor of Walt Disney Theatrical Pro­
ductions, said. “We did a workshop 
last summer where we read through 
the whole piece, discussed some of 
the puppet concepts and did some 
script development by adding music 
and more scenes.”
The film score, which contained 
only five songs, will be augmented 
for Broadway, said Taymor, with 
new material written by Elton John 
and Tim Rice. The musical will also 
contain selections from the record­
ing “Rhythni of the Pride Lands” 
which the movie inspired.
‘The Lion King5 is a universal story, 
that’s what attracted me to it,” 
Taymor. “The experience of losing 
ther and then finding yourself. Plus the 
fact that I get to put things like a water­
fall and a stampede on stage.”
© 1994 The Walt Disney Companj;
Four-Day ForecastCarnegie Almanac
Tuesday
Snow and sleet. 
Hi 31 Lo 23
Wednesday
Partly cloudy. 
HI 34 Lo 23
ThursdaySnow flurries. 
Hi 31 Lo 17
Friday
Partly sunny. 
Hi 40 Lo 17
From National Weather Service bulletins and other sources
50 YEARS AGO, Dec. 17,1946. 
Carnegie Tech received a 
$300,000 grant to build a 110- 
inch, 200 million volt synchro­
cyclotron and nuclear physics 
laboratory. The total cost of the 
project, excluding a building to 
house the research, was esti­
mated at half a million dollars.
The end of WWII, and the veil 
of secrecy that went with it, en­
abled CIT to plan construction of 
a new type of “atom smasher” (or 
particle accelerator) approxi­
mately four times more efficient 
than pre-war machines. The pro­
posed CIT accelerator was simi­
lar to one being designed by 
Harvard professors and second 
in size only to a giant version in 
California using 184-inch mag­
net poles.
The activity in nucleonics prom­
ised research opportunities in the 
fields of physics, chemistry, 
chemical engineering, metal­
lurgy, and general research in 
nuclear technology.
25 YEARS AGO, Nov. 181971. 
The Registrar’s office announced 
procedures for students to follow 
for pre-registration for the next
semester’s courses. A schedule of 
classes was made available in a 
special edition of The Tartan.
Academic departments setup in 
the gym to process course section 
enrollment on December 6. The 
pre-registration procedure oc­
curred between the hours of 1 to 5 
pm and then from 6 to 9 pm. Stu­
dents were assigned a specific time 
to appear in the gym, where they 
could get help to provide them with 
more equity in course enrollments.
Students who pre-registered 
were given preference for places 
in courses over all students who 
have not pre-registered, regard­
less of seniority.
TEN YEARS AGO, Nov. 18, 
1986. Spiders succeeded in biting 
two students in Margaret 
Morrison Apartments. The spi­
ders were feared to have been 
poisonous Brown Recluses, as a 
result of one student’s severe re­
action to the bite.
The first student was bitten 
near the heart and rushed to Pres­
byterian hospital because of the 
reaction. Because venom from the 
Brown Recluse can cause gan­
grene, the tissue surrounding the
bite had to be removed.
In between attempts to rid the 
premises of spiders, the same stu­
dent and a suitemate were bitten 
again. Their apartment was 
sprayed with Knox-out, fogged 
with Pyrethrum, the cracks were 
treated, and glue traps were used. 
No spiders were found in either 
attempt. The students were of­
fered rooms at the University Inn, 
which they refused.
FIVE YEARS AGO, Nov. 18, 
1991. ROTC dominated Student 
Senate elections with write-in 
candidates. Responding from 
what the group felt was ill-treat- 
ment from Senate, ROTC indi­
viduals campaigned by passing 
out flyers for their candidates on 
election days.
For their efforts, ten of the 17 
open seats were filled by ROTC 
students, all of them write-ins. 
Voter turnout was 8.4 percent. 
The new Senate for the spring 
term had a total of 31 seats.
ROTC’s mastering of the elec­
tion was not without controversy. 
It was alleged that ROTC faculty 
helped to pass out flyers, which is 
against an elections stipulation
known as the “A Phi O rule.”
The rule states “There is to be 
no faculty, administration, or de­
partmental interference in Stu­
dent Government Elections.” |
ONE YEAR AGO, Nov. 13 
1995. Carnegie Mellon donated 
$35,000 worth of used computer 
equipment to Goodwill Industries 
of Pittsburgh to establish a Com­
puter Recycling Center on the; 
South Side.
The previous year, CMU 
created its own recycling center 
under Computing Services. The 
project grew out of a desire to; 
provide usable machines to the 
community via the University, 
Outreach program.
CMU hired a coordinator and' 
several work-study students 
repair and recycle the computers 
and peripherals. Computing Ser­
vices employees also volunteered 
their time.
A grant from Pittsburgh’s 3 
Foundation enabled Goodwill tt 
sell the machines to schools or 
needy students below cost.
Compiled b) 
CHRIS CANNON

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 11 November 19963
AWARDS, from page 1
stefulness.” Bosnyack, a library 
assistant with University Libraries 
who also works to calculate research 
overhead rates, was honored with 
this award.
According to her, the ceremony was 
‘nerve-wracking.... I didn’t realize how 
nervous I would be ... [but] it’s nice to 
be recognized by a group of my peers. 
It was time to recognize the accom­
plishments of our staff... [and] all the 
effort that goes on behind the scenes 
to help make CMU have the reputa­
tion that it has.
Each candidate was nominated by a 
faculty member or student, who then 
had to get other letters of recommenda- 
iion from people who agreed with the 
nomination.
‘Ours is a service organization,” said 
Meyer, who was nominated by Ignacio 
Grossman, head of the chemical engi­
neering department. “We try hard to 
provide the best responses. When 
you’re working with apparatuses [sic], 
you’re building things that haven’t 
seen built before. I guess the custom­
ers must have claimed to be satisfied, 
[t’s a good feeling to know that your 
boss thinks highly of you. We live to 
serve in the shop.”
All of the nominees received a written 
letter from the president’s office and 
several electronic mail messages to make
CMU recognizes faculty, 
staff with Andy Awards
sure that they made an appearance at 
the ceremony.
“It was the first time I’d ever been in 
McConomy Auditorium,” said Meyer. 
“It was kind of fun.... [There was] a lot 
of support [and] enthusiasm for the 
ceremony. I couldn’t see where an­
other human body could fit [in] any­
place in the auditorium. I never 
thought I would be recognized. I’m 
seldom above ground — [my work­
shop] is in the bowels of Doherty 
amongst the pipes and steam tun­
nels.”
The nominees were narrowed down 
by a ten-person Judges Committee. 
One member of this committee, Bruce 
Gerson, assistant director of CMU in­
ternal communication, said that the 
reason Carnegie Mellon’s administra­
tion decided to start giving the Andy 
Awards was to show appreciation for 
the faculty and staff.
“I think they [the administration] 
realize that the staff does a tremen­
dous job,” said Gerson. “They con­
tribute a great deal to what the Uni­
versity is. I think it was something 
that came about as a result of want­
ing to recognize the staff for their 
contributions.”
Pflaum, who was presented with 
the Andy Award for University Citi­
zenship, was not available for com­
ment.
Carnegie Mellon in Brief
NSF gives CMU 
$3.75 mill grant
The National Science Foundation 
(NSF) awarded the Material Science & 
Engineering Department of Carnegie 
Mellon’s Engineering College a $3.57 
million grant over five years for the 
Mesoscale Interface Mapping Project. 
This project, one of 13 funded by the 
NSF to support material science engi­
neering research, uses automated mi­
croscopic techniques to map the struc­
tures of certain metal alloys and ce­
ramics to their properties, which will 
help scientists understand the strength, 
failure, or fracture of these materials. 
The project involves much interdisci­
plinary collaboration with the Math­
ematical Sciences and Electrical and 
Computer Engineering departments.
Speaker tackles death penalty
On November 13, Robert Meeropol, 
son of Julius and Ethel Rosenberg, 
will speak in McConomy Auditorium 
about the death penalty and the re­
cent, highly publicized case of Mumia 
Abu-Jamal, currently facing execution.
Meeropol’s parents were wrongfully
executed on June 19,1953 for conspiring 
to “steal the secret of the atomic bomb.” 
Meeropol, orphaned at six, asserts his 
parents’ innocence and has spent the 
last 30 years as an activist, writer and 
speaker. He has also successfully sued 
the federal government for records re­
lating to his parents’ case and assisted 
hundreds of children whose parents have 
been attacked for their social activism.
Meeropol is hosted by the Carnegie 
Mellon chapter of the Western Pennsylva­
nia Committee to Free Mumia Abu-Jamal 
and funded by AB Political Speakers and 
H&SS Political Speakers program.
Professor receives Dickinson Prize
On November 4, Carnegie Mellon’s 
Dickson Prize was awarded to Leland 
Hartwell, a cell biologist at the Fred 
Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in 
Seattle, Washington. Hartwell is also a 
professor of genetics at the University 
of Washington. His research led to new 
insights on how cells may become can­
cerous, and his studies of cell cycle 
control have made him widely discussed 
as a candidate for the Nobel Prize in 
Medicine.
Hartwell developed a theory that 
showed how normal cells go through 
“checkpoints” to correct genetic errors
before dividing. His new theory sug­
gests that a large part of cancers are 
caused by mutations in these check­
point genes. He also has received many 
other major scientific awards includ­
ing a Guggenheim, the EH Lilly Award 
in Microbiology and Immunology, and 
the Gairdner Foundational Interna­
tional Award.
When Hartwell received his award, 
which included a cash award of $22,500 
and a medal, he gave a lecture about 
“understanding ourselves through 
genetics” in the Mellon Institute.
Phi Beta Kappa discusses book
The Phi Beta Kappa honor society 
will host a discussion of Charles 
Murray’s “Losing Ground: American 
Social Policy, 1950-1980.” Professor 
Daniel Resnick, a member of Phi Beta 
Kappa and Professor of History at 
CMU will review the book.
“[Charles Murray’s] work, which ap­
peared ten years before The Bell Curve, 
presented this empirical evidence for 
the failure of the American welfare 
state,” said Resnick.
The talk will take place on Novem­
ber 14 in the Danforth Lounge in the 
University Center, and is free and 
open to the public.
Crime and Incident Report
11/4THEFT,12:39 pm. A CMU 
dining services employee reported 
the loss of chairs to an officer. 
Between Friday, November 1 and 
Sunday, November 4, 24 or 25 
pink and gray chairs were re­
moved from the tables at the fifth 
floor food cart area in Wean Hall.
Only the chairs were removed 
from the area. A search of each 
floor did not reveal the chairs.
11/5 GRAFFITI, 1:34 pm. An 
officer was dispatched to the Col- 
of Fine Arts to meet with a 
security guard. The guard stated 
finding graffiti written in crayon 
on the mezzanine level.
Between rooms 152 and 152A a
ngle word indicating Oedipal 
relations with one’s mother was 
written. Also, on the balcony near­
est room 160, derogatory words 
towards CMU and the city were 
written.
11/6HARASSMENTBY COM­
MUNICATION, 10:41 pm. An of­
ficer was dispatched to Webster 
Hall to answer a report of harass­
ment. Upon arrival, the officer spoke 
to a student, who complained of 
repeated callings. The studentindi-
cated that an actor had been calling 
and threatening physical abuse.
The caller alleged that the stu­
dent was selling a bike on a 
bboard that actually belongedto 
the caller. Laughter could be 
heard in the background and the 
actor’s voice was described as 
feminine and cocky. The officer 
informed the student and the 
student’s roommate to keep a log 
of the time of the calls and what 
was mentioned.
11/7 THEFT/RECOVERY,
3:14 am. Two officers responded 
to a call from the University Cen­
ter. A short, green leather chair 
had been taken from Skibo Cof­
feehouse by a group of males. The 
group was seen heading towards 
the fraternities.
Upon arrival at the fraterni­
ties, an officer checked the fra­
ternity area and stopped a stu­
dent in possession of furniture 
similar to the chair in question. 
The student claimed to be an 
employee of the coffeehouse and 
said that the chair was being 
returned to the establishment. 
Later verification confirmed this 
information.
11/7 SHOPLIFTING,1:24 pm.
Three officers were called to En­
tropy to investigate a shoplifter. 
They met with a complainant, who 
stated that a short female had a 
bag of nachos that she did not pay 
for in her backpack. When the ac­
tor was stopped and questioned
about the item, she took the mer­
chandise out, laid it down, and left 
the area immediately.
• Chief of Campus Police 
James LaPaglia reviews all re­
ports prior to release.
• Only three people on The
Tartan staff see the reports: the 
Editor-in-Chief, the News Edi­
tor, and the staffwriter typing 
the report.
• All personal names of com­
plainants, victims, suspects, and 
fraternity names are omitted 
from the printed report. Ethnic
descriptions and other personal 
details are given only in the con­
text of complete descriptions.
• Not every incident that occurs 
on campus appears in the report.
Compiled By 
CHRIS CANNON
m
liiiHIS
H
To Darwin, Evolution Was A Theory;
To Sybase, It’s Our Philosophy.
In just 12 years,Sybase has evolved into a major player 
in the software/services industry, and is now the 6th largest 
independent software company in the world. You can call it 
survival of the fittest if you want, but this is no textbook case 
of evolution. We like to think of it as a phenomenal concept 
that was designed to meet our customers’ evolving needs and 
keep them ahead of the competition.
CS, Engineering or IS majors planning a future as 
ASSOCIATE CONSULTANTS should attend our:
¦ INFORMATION SESSION ¦
Monday, Nov. 18 ¦ 7pm - 9pm 
Student Center Building m Room 242
ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS ¦
Tuesday, Nov. 19
Contact the Career Center
Forward your resume to:
¦ E-mail: college@sybase.com
¦ FAX: (510) 922-8002
¦ Mail: University Relations, 
Sybase, Inc.
6425 Christie Ave., 5th FI., 
Emeryville CA 94608.
Sybuse is cm u'tjiui! opportunity employer ihue values 
the strength diversity brings to the workplace.SSybase
http://www.sybase.com/careers/college

---------------------------------------------------

rtAC-
Carnegie Mellon University11 November 1996
Registration must 
streamline, go on-line
For many departments, the labori­
ous registration process begins to­
day. As we know it, registration is a 
difficult and unclear process. It is a 
time for waiting around in long lines, 
running from department to depart- 
. mentfor signatures, and dealing with 
1; complicated procedures that no one 
really fully understands.
. There is an easier way; a less ar­
chaic, more up-to-date way of han­
dling this crucial process. Carnegie 
Mellon needs an electronic registra­
tion system.
Regardless of the fact that it has 
been a topic of discussion for years 
now, Carnegie Mellon’s Enrollment 
Group must make a pragmatic com­
mitment to converting registration to 
an on-line format. Virtually everyone 
at CMU uses a computer on a day to 
day basis, so it only makes sense to 
make the conversion.
On-line registration would ensure 
that students, faculty and staff could 
put their time and energy to better 
use. In addition, the current levels of 
technology and software advance­
ments that exist would make auto­
mated registration secure, quick, and 
accurate.
The process as we know it begins 
with the RAD form, and the tedious 
process of getting the proper signa­
tures for authorization. This becomes 
difficult and laborious, especially 
when students have to make time 
between classes and wake up at the 
crack of dawn in order to try and 
ensure that they get the classes they 
want.
With an electronic system in place, 
students could submit a proposed 
schedule to their advisor in electronic 
format (perhaps an “e-RAD”), the two 
could meet at their convenience, and 
then the e-RAD couldbe forwarded to 
;the appropriate people for approval; 
no leg-work or line-waiting required.
Furthermore, an electronic sys­
tem would queue students auto­
matically for enrollment for those 
classes that are difficult to get into 
because of size constraints and 
popularity. As the class would fill, 
students waiting could automati­
cally receive confirmations as to 
whether or not they were accepted 
to the class.
Under the current system, stu­
dents must submit their finally- 
completed RAD’s to the HUB, some­
times only to be told that other 
signatures are necessary. This 
means that students must repeat 
the final leg of the process, meaning 
more leg-work, more line-waiting, 
and another trip to The HUB.
With the implementation of an 
electronic system, students would 
be alerted of the need of additional 
approval requirements, and he or 
she could forward the e-RAD to the 
right person from the comfort of 
their dorm room or favorite cluster.
The bottom line is that this cam­
pus needs a technologically-sup­
ported, on-line registration system. 
The current system has significant 
problems that are not being ad­
dressed, and the burden is being 
laid upon the students and depart­
ment advisors. An electronic sys­
tem can only benefit all those in­
volved in the process.
Surely the University known for 
revolutionizing the software devel­
opment process can create a local 
registration system — the technol­
ogy is certainly available.
The focus of registration needs to 
be about positive planning for a 
new semester, not stress and confu­
sion. And without a technologically- 
supported solution to the registra­
tion problems we now face, the pro­
cess will remain just that — stress­
ful and confusing.
Organizations need 
publicity resources
On a campus where student atten­
dance at any given event in relatively 
low, it is natural to blame student 
apathy, but to leave it at that dis­
credits the number of students who 
do show up. The large turnout rate at 
football games this semester is not 
the result of a sudden attitude change 
among the student body; groups such 
as Spirit of Skibo have taken mea­
sures to advertise their events — and 
it shows. Students show up when 
they know about campus functions.
Unfortunately, publicity is not as 
easy as it looks. For starters, many 
student organizations don’t have the 
money or expertise to get their word 
out properly. Advertising and eye­
catching and readable posters cost 
money, and this has lead organiza­
tions to beg and borrow to fund pub­
licity. In some cases, publicity has 
come out of the pockets of organiza­
tions’, pockets; both the Substance- 
. Free and Haven Houses have paid for 
advertising out of their own pockets.
The student activities fee should 
, cover these costs, as they are an im­
portant part of organizational costs 
and very often comprise a large part 
of the cost of running a program.
A student organization publicity 
,fund should be set aside to pay for 
such expenses. This will stress the 
importance of advertising to student 
groups and make it more accessible. 
With resources readily available, or­
ganizations will be more inclined to 
take advantage of them.
. Financial burdens do not completely 
explain the poor publicity for events 
on campus; most students don’t know 
how to go about advertising effec­
tively. Flyers on bulletin boards just 
don’t cut it anymore due to the large
numbers of notices that are usually 
posted around campus — most of 
which look exactly alike. What or­
ganizations need is a resource for 
marketing and publicity plans for 
their events. The Office of Student 
Activities recent event-planning 
workshop was a step in the right 
direction, but very often, student 
organizations simply do not have 
the manpower to pull it off them­
selves.
A feasible solution would be to 
form an outlet that would make use 
of some of the resources that al­
ready exist on campus. CMU’s In­
dustrial Management and Design 
departments are among the best in 
the nation. Why not make put those 
talents to use and form a student 
group designed to fill the advertis­
ing and marketing needs of all stu­
dent groups that are funded by Stu­
dent Activities?
By soliciting the help of students 
who are already looking for ways to 
build their portfolios and gain 
hands-on experience, student orga­
nizations could focus their funds 
and efforts on bringing speakers to 
campus and funding events, rather 
than worrying about adequate pub­
licity. This is the very definition of 
a win-win situation.
As it stands now, many high-qual­
ity, valuable events are going on 
unnoticed, and even worse, unat­
tended. This University has the 
resources to rectify that problem 
with a bit of organization. Activity 
Fee funds should be allocated to a 
student-driven publicity and adver­
tising resource group dedicated to 
increasing attendance to campus 
events.
Columnist takes first step to freedom
Rebecca Fribush
Mmmmm, mmmmm. Nothing like 
cheesecake. As I down each delectably 
rich mouthful, I am overcome by the 
thought that I can experience this ec­
stasy whenever I want, or at least as 
long as my DineXpress holds out. I’m 
a firm believer in the tenet that food 
is our friend. And why not? Food is 
easy to come across, relatively inex­
pensive (unless you have a taste for, 
say, imported French goose brains), 
harmless compared to all the chemi­
cally enhanced fun you could be en- 
gagingin instead, somethingyouneed 
a certain amount of anyway, and a 
great excuse for getting together with 
friends or family. Eating has pro­
vided the basis for some of the best 
times I’ve had.
Food also gives you great exercise 
in logical thinking. For example, 
watch me prove the proposition: “The 
cheesecake I’m eating is good for me.” 
Cheese is a dairy product.
Dairy products are good for me. Cake 
is a member of the bread group. Bread is 
good for me. Cheesecake = cheese + 
cake. Therefore, cheesecake is good for 
me. See? You can have all kinds of intel­
ligent fun while eating.
That’s why I don’t understand people 
who are barely on speaking terms with 
their food. Awareness of health concerns
is one thing, and it should be admired. 
Or at least gotten around through the 
skillful use of logic. Yet some people take 
these all-too-reasonable worries to an­
other level. They hollow out their bagels 
lest they inhale a few too many carbohy­
drate calories. They regularly and os­
tentatiously make meals out of side sal­
ads — without the dressing.
They brag about how virtuous they 
are when they subsist for a while on
Amit Kar/Business Manager
nothing but birdseed and oranges.
The implicit assumption behind this 
behavior—that eating less which tastes 
worse will make you a better person—is 
ridiculous. By this criterion, all the top 
models should be on their way to canoni­
zation. I think that that alone is reason 
enough for it to be reconsidered.
The cake-naming system is further
proof that this belief is screwed up. Con­
sider this: that tasteless spongy stuffis 
called angel’s food cake, while rich 
chocolatey cake is known as devil’s food.
If bakeries really knew what they were 
doing, they’d reverse it. With the hope of 
getting chocolate cake in the afterlife, 
everyone would have an incentive to 
positively outdo each other in morality 
and helpfulness.
What the birdseed-eaters are forget­
ting is that the only things that make 
you a better person involve actively 
going out and doing good things. Ab­
staining from fats isn’t helping any­
one, unless you happen to be donat­
ing all the money you’d otherwise 
spend on Hostess Twinkies to the 
needy poor. As for being a model of 
virtue, you’re more likely to behave 
positively when you’re in a good mood 
than not. (I made up this finding all 
by myself, but I’m sure it’s corrobo­
rated by some important study some­
where.) I hardly think I need to a 
which snack would make you feel 
more joyous and brimming with kind- 
ness—sweet, chocolate, ... or celery?
I could continue discussing at lengti 
the exact level of stupidity demon­
strated by the idea that virtue is 
inversely proportional to calories con­
sumed. But I’ve just now finished the 
last bite of my cheesecake. Suddenly, 1 
feel so kind ... and charitable ... and 
forgiving ... that I think it’s best not to 
continue along that path any longer.
Fribush is a history major. Her favor­
ite cheesecake is cookies and cream.
Civil Rights law assures bright future
OK, so Dole 
lost. Big sur­
prise. I was 
holding onto 
some opti-
James Stepanek mism UP t0..................................—, the last
minute, but I
did understand that Clinton was probably going to win in 
any case. Dole, while being an honorable man, and a good 
senator, lacks the appeal and message that a President 
requires. Besides these obvious facts, today I want to tell 
you the bright spot from election day: Proposition 209, the 
California Civil Rights Initiative, passed.
I imagine many of you wonder what the hell that is. 
Proposition 209 is a state law which says that the state 
cannot discriminate on the basis of race, sex, religion, or 
anything else (except in common sense cases like female 
prison guards for female prisoners, etc.). Seems pretty 
straightforward, doesn't it? Well the liberals fought it 
tooth and nail because it effectively kills affirmative ac­
tion. It passed with a clear majority of 54 percent of the 
popular vote despite a huge amount of money that leftist 
organizations spent to defeat it.
Those same organizations also went after the most vocal 
supporter of Proposition 209, Ward Connerly. Mr. Connerly, 
a black man, is one of the regents of the University of 
California system. He was labeled an “Oreo,” and “Uncle
Tom,” and received death threats against himself and his 
family. All this just because he wanted to be judged on the 
basis of the content of his character, not his skin-color.
Actually, the lengths to which the leftists went to try to 
kill this initiative were amazing. They shot holes in 
Connerly’s house; they created trumped-up harassment 
charges against him; they even brought David Duke in to 
speak in favor of the proposition at one state university. 
Connerly had offered to speak in favor of it for free, but they 
refused him the opportunity.
Luckily, in the case of Duke’s talk, the leftists had crossed 
their lines and a militant faction showed up and started a 
riot, which stole the thunder of the Duke set-up.
Fortunately, that’s what the new law is really about: 
hiring people on the basis of their qualifications. In all 
truth, affirmative action doesn’t do much to help those who 
actually need it. Poor minorities still end up having a lousy 
time of it. However, upper class minorities tend to get 
breaks that they really don’t need, and the poor people who 
don’t happen to be in the correct minority get nothing.
For example, how can anyone justify the son of a rich 
Mexican getting a spot at Berkeley over some poor white 
guy even if the white guy had better grades? How can you 
accept that the son of a Korean shop owner doesn’t get a good 
government job because some black man from an upper 
middle class background fills the quota? I know, people 
want to make a case that it’s about “righting wrongs of the
Please see LAW, page 5
Writer suggests easy steps to a funnier you
Douglas Howe
The fact of the matter is, I’m actually 
not funny. I have absolutely no sense of 
humor whatsoever. This may be a shock 
to some, but I had to face the truth. I 
couldn’t lead this double life any more. 
This sudden reversal came about when 
certain people approached me after last 
week’s article and said that they thought 
it was quite jovial, especially the part 
about the tan M&M’s. They thought 
that was a friggin’ riot. Laughed them­
selves right onto the floor. But the sad 
yet simple truth is that I didn’t write it. 
It wasn’t my joke. My editor added it to
fill space. In fact, the articles I usually 
hand in are about six or seven sentences 
long. In all honesty, I’m really just a 
border-line suicidal who doesn’t have 
very many friends, except my pet ferret 
and possibly my deceased grandmother. 
I know this must hurt. Almost as big as 
the Milli Vanilli thing, but the pain was 
becoming too great for me to bear. I’m 
sorry. But from now on, I promise to be 
my true self, for you, the reader, and no 
one else. Well, except for my ferret.
As one of my goals, I’m going to try and 
learn how to be funny. In this crazy 
world today, I can’t afford to think about 
depressing things like homelessness, or 
crack babies, or the fact that Ralph Nader 
wasn’t elected president. If I submerge 
myself in that, I’ll be addicted to Prozac 
even more than I am now.
Luckily, my best bud from back home
gave me some advice. He’s a damn funny 
guy. I like to think of him as my mento.' 
From wearing multi-colored tuxs to our 
prom to the infamous first hand account 
of “The Ass Trigger.” So I trust he 
wouldn’t steer me wrong.
The Joke. The secret to a good joke fo 
to never let it die. If it’s funny once, itH 
be funny for eternity. The key is to never 
let it go. Tell the joke, which may,! 
first, not even be intended as one and let 
it fly. There will become a point in which 
the joke will become unfunny, a.k.a- 
annoying, in which everyone in the ge®’ 
eral vicinity who hasn’t already heard# 
one hundred times will, without fafc 
groan. This part is essential. If you tfifl 
the joke a number of times and no one 
groans, then you should give it up, but11 
they do, you’re in like Flynn. You’re a 
Please see JOKES, page5

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 11 November 19965
Republicans remain strong after presidential loss
Well, it looks like we can look 
forward to another four years of 
King Bill. Bob Dole’s incompe­
tent campaign has plowed itself 
into the ground and burned.
Fortunately, the Republicans 
managed to maintain control of 
both houses of Congress. Those 
who survived were, in large part, 
those conservatives who had some 
real understanding of the funda­
mental issues. They were the ones 
who refused to bow to pressure, 
refused to moderate their tone, 
and stood up uncompromisingly 
for values.
The main problem with the 
Republicans is, as I’ve pointed 
out before, their contradictory 
premises. On one hand, they 
stand up as the champions of 
freedom and capitalism. On the 
other, they accept the same sav­
age morality of altruism that the 
liberals do. They think that the 
government has some right to 
enforce views of morality on is­
sues such as abortion, euthana­
sia, and drug use.
With these contradictory pre­
mises, they make poor champi­
ons of freedom. They don’t know 
how to stand up for it properly, or 
argue against the liberals’ moral 
attacks. This is the reason they 
were out of power for decades, 
and the reason many of the old 
line Republicans didn’t under­
stand why they were suddenly 
swept into power.
This is evidenced most strongly 
by their zombie-like support of 
Bob Dole, who represented the 
worst of the wishy-washy, prag­
matic Republicans.
Hopefully, now that Dole has 
lost, these sorts of Republicans 
will have less influence with the 
party. Those who remain in con­
trol have a great opportunity to 
turn this country around, and 
restore it to the glorious home of 
freedom that it once was.
To do so, however, they must 
come out unequivocally in favor 
of freedom.
Fundamentally, the Republi­
cans must dump the morality of 
altruism. It undercuts everything 
they attempt to accomplish. They 
need to attack all the socialist 
programs such as Medicare, So­
cial Security, Welfare, and Hous­
ing. This premise argues that if 
someone is old, or sick, or poor,
that automatically gives them a 
claim upon another man’s life, 
and that government should ini­
tiate force to take the fruits of one 
man’s production to give to an­
other.
The Republicans should stop 
trying to “reform” welfare and 
such, and should stand up in prin­
ciple against it.
They should denounce these 
programs as being fundamentally 
immoral, and pushing for their 
complete elimination.
They also need to support full 
economic freedom, and recognize 
it as a moral issue. Though less 
socialist than their Democratic 
brethren, the Republicans still 
support a large number of con­
trols on the economy.
Republicans must come out in 
favor of complete laissez-faire 
capitalism, and even more im­
portantly, must defend it on the 
basis of individual rights.
The traditional conservative 
defense of capitalism has been 
that it serves the common good, 
that things are better economi­
cally, etc..
While it is true that things are 
better under capitalism, that 
people live better, this is not the 
moral justification of capitalism. 
It must be justified on the basis of
individual rights. Men need to 
work in order to survive, and 
whatever they produce by their 
effort is their’s, and no one else 
has a right to it. When the gov­
ernment comes along and de­
mands that he act differently, 
that he give up what he has 
earned, it puts him in a terrible 
conflict. To the best of his knowl­
edge, he must act in a certain way 
in order to survive, but a thug 
with a gun demands that he be­
have differently. The thug de­
mands that he give up what he 
earned to another who has not 
bothered to make the effort, or 
that he sacrifice himself to the 
needs of the snail darter or spot­
ted owl. The acceptance of the 
notion that men have the right to 
abuse each other like this is re­
pugnant, and it must end.
Capitalism is the right of men 
to produce what they need to sur­
vive, and the right to dispose of 
the fruits of their production as 
they see fit. Any infringement on 
this is, at its root, an infringe­
ment on the most fundamental 
needs of man’s survival. This is 
what the Republicans must rec­
ognize. They must also overcome 
their own deep desires to use the 
government to control individual 
morality. Their general opposi-
tion to abortion, drugs, the right 
to die, and other issues seriously 
undercut their position. It is hard 
to stand as a defender of freedom 
when you deny people the right 
to their most precious possession: 
their own body.
If the Republicans become this 
“extreme,” it will make them even 
more hated and vilified, but 
they’re hated and vilified as it is. 
This will come mostly from the 
liberal intellectuals, who are not 
friends of freedom and have al­
ways hated America.
The American people, though, 
are a different story. The Ameri­
can traditions of freedom have 
not entirely faded. Americans still 
value liberty, though they often 
have a rather fuzzy notion of what 
the concept means. If the Repub­
licans would come out in support 
of freedom, of man’s right to exist 
for his own sake, I believe they 
would enjoy great success. It was 
certainly successful 200 years 
ago.
Somebody has to, if America is 
ever to recover from its decline 
and become the great nation it 
once was.
Jon Orris is a graduate student 
in physics. He welcomes any re­
sponsible replies to his column.
Law expands 
view of rights
LAW, from page 4
past” and about combatting the racism 
that lingers on today. Basically, all these 
justifications are about revenge for inju­
ries either real or perceived.
Well, I’m sorry, but revenge against 
people who didn’t commit the crime is 
wrong. Given that this is a nation of 
immigrants, it’s pretty hard to go on the 
basis of revenge for history.
As for the issue of persistent racism — 
well, yes, it does exist and people who do 
such things should be nailed to the wall 
for it under the appropriate law. This 
does not justify blanket discrimination 
against innocent individuals.
The real truth is that affirmative ac­
tion is a crutch which doesn’t help any 
side. It lets the people who receive it get 
by with less effort, and it colors the 
views of those who compete with its 
recipients.
Do you think some worker who didn’t 
get in due to a quota is going to be filled 
with bonhomie and goodwill towards 
those who got the job?
Even if he didn’t qualify himself, he is 
allowed to assume that the minority 
member got it on the basis of the prefer­
ential treatment.
This is what really poisons attitudes 
and feeds modern racism.
Proposition 209 will go a long way 
towards mending the problems caused 
by affirmative action.
I can accept that affirmative action 
was well-intentioned, but history has 
shown that it has only negative effects. 
Everyone, including those who suppos­
edly benefit from affirmative action, will 
be better off to see it gone.
James Stepanek is a PhD candidate in 
MSE. He welcomes any responsible re­
plies to his column.
Simplicity, surprise make for real humor
JOKES, from page 4
steady in their lives. They can always 
depend on you to give them something 
they know, somethingfamiliar. People like 
the familiar.
They don’t like surprises. That’s the 
worst part of a surprise party. The sur­
prise part. Everyone is standing around 
having a gay ol’ time, unless it’s a gay 
party, where, I guess they are having a 
straight ol’ time, and then the “suprisee” 
arrives. You have to stumble around in the
dark, attempt to find _________________
some hidingplace, and 
then, wham! You flash 
on the light and yell,
“Surprise.”
The suprisee pre­
tends to look surprised 
and not bored, since 
he has, in all truth, 
known about the sur- 
prise party for weeks now, because the 
instigator of the idea blew the cover within 
the first ten minutes of the ideas concep­
tion by saying, “Now you’re sure you’re not 
doing anything the night of your birthday? 
Because I think we really should do some­
thing. But we have to be out of the house 
from exactly six to eight. Not that
the sinker. You won’t know when it’s hap­
pening.
It almost always happens when you think 
it’s the last time you’ll ever tell it. You’re at 
your weakest and most vulnerable, and 
that’s when people laugh. Laughter is pain, 
no doubt about it. So long as it’s not at your 
expense, it’s a great way to alleviate all 
your worries and strife. Another way would 
be to have your own personal sound-track.
Think about it. You’re walking down the 
street, minding your own business, and
“But one person never to listen to is John 
Tesh. That'II really screw up your head. 
Kinda like David Hasselhoff% but with more 
domestic appeal."
without the aid of a Walkman or any other 
over-priced Japanese equipment, the song 
you want to hear, exactly at that moment, 
is playing, for only you to hear.
You’re sittingin a boring history lecture, 
but inside you’re really listening to ABBA 
or the Bee-Gees. Getting yelled at by a
parent? How’s about some Travis Tritt or 
anything’s planned or anything. It’s just Yanni? Prince or The Artist-that-changed- 
that they’re fumigating.” his-named-to-avoid-record-contract-fraud
So be familiar. Comfort in an old tired might be a bit difficult at certain times.
joke is better than having to lie to your 
friends all night by say, “No, I really was 
surprised.” After this phase of the process, 
groaning is the difficult part.
You see, people quickly get bored of the 
familiar. Interesting paradox, I know, but 
so are people. Your friends will find you 
tedious, annoying, and just plain stupid. 
But persevere. Don’t let up. Because people 
like the familiar when, eventually it either 
becomes private or something they can 
ultimately put down for eternity. This is
Only because nobody really knows what 
he is, boy/girl, black/white, plant/animal. 
But one person never to listen to is John 
Tesh. That’ll really screw up your head. 
Kinda like David Hasselhoff, but with 
more domestic appeal. They are people in 
fact, who do walk around with John Tesh 
playing in their head, over and over and 
over again.
It’s because he’s an alien. There isn’t any 
other reasonable excuse. John Tesh is an 
alien and he’s here to brainwash our chil-
dren. Just look at him. He’s got alien 
written all over him. There are others 
like him, just not in such wide release. 
He’s kind of like the leader. The one in 
main contact with the mother-ship.
There has been debate whether his 
wife Connie Seleca is an alien, and I 
can definitely say she is not. But she is 
part of the grand plan. She a human, 
he’s an alien, and they’re cross-polli­
nating to form mutant babies to lead 
the superior race. She’ll be terminated
_____________ as soon as there are
enough babies running 
around, but she was 
properly brainwashed 
to serve the Tesh- 
meister.
Oh, yeah, the joke. 
So try it with your 
friends. Be strong and 
endure. If you don’t 
have one of your own, I’ll give you a 
free-be. In some manner, somewhere 
in the lingo of your daily speech insert 
the phase, “Put the jar in the ashcan.” 
It’s vague enough to be universal, but 
specific enough for hours of fun.
And as a postscript, my roomie and I 
have come up with the surefire way to 
find out if someone is funny or not, 
meaning to see if they have a sense of 
humor or not. On a piece of paper, 
write the words, “Shit Ass.” Don’t tell 
the person what you’re doing, but just 
spring it on them. If they laugh, they’ve 
got a good sense of humor. If not, kill 
them on the spot. In the New World
Order,
people.
we don’t want no unfunny
Doug Howe is a senior drama major. 
Yes, I, the editor, did in fact write the 
M&M thing. Sorry. He welcomes any 
responsible replies to his column.
Jim Snyder/Darkroom Manager
Election time is over, but Mark Ravaglia 
Bob Dole doesn’t cease to ex- Graduate 
ist (we think). We asked: Philosophy 
What do you think Bob
Dole is doing right now? “Drinking bourbon.”
Benki Davis
Senior
IDS
“In bed in his underwear read­
ing the funnies.”
Eric Schmiet
Freshman
MSE
Scotty Dog
Junior
CS
“He’s probably planning on “I think he’s probably enjoy- 
getting back at Clinton, I as- ing his freedom. He maybe play- 
sume.” ing football or eating sausage
out of the trash can.”
T
Carnegie Melton's Student Newspaper 
Since 1906
Ed.-in-Chief.. Kenneth J. Kraemer 
Managing Ed. Andrew McDermott
Business Manager..........Amit Kar
News Editor..........Becky A.Cowser
Forum Editor...................John Biggs
Sports Editor..................Paul Boothe
Features Editor..................Sharmila
Venkatasubban
Diversions Editor.................Ena Khan
CalendarEd.................KevinAuYoung
Dossier Dsgn. Eds.Laura Varrachi
............................Paulina Berczynski
Dossier Lit. Ed.........Kevin Meehan
Art Co-Editor........Gabrien Symons
Art Co-Editor........................Simona Lo
Photo Editor.......Jason Siegendorf
Production Mgr. Elizabeth Neuman
Advertising Mgr........Chintan Shah
Systems Manager...............1-Ping Li
Copy Manager........Winter Mason
Asst. News Editor.... Chris Cannon 
Asst. Features Editor... Julee White
Asst. Diversions Ed........Jay Miolla
Asst. Sports Ed.........Dawn Papuga
Asst. Forum Editor... Jenny Garcia 
de Osuna
Asst. Production Manager..William 
Holtz
Photo Staff Mgr........Anthony Chao
Darkroom Manager.......Jim Snyder
Personnel Mgr............Eric Salzman
Contributing Editor 
Matthew Solitro
Senior Staff 
Gil Alterovitz, Jason Andracki,
Matt Ball
Staffwriters 
Chris Adukaitis, Ellen Beldner, Steve 
Charnoubi, MattCuccaro, Annemarie 
Devine, Ryan Donovan, Dave Elman, 
Dan Goldwasser, Tom Harper, Adam 
Klivans, Wladimir Labeikovsky, Alex 
Lewin, Trevor Meyerowitz, Dizzy 
Muiphy, Tracy Odell, Jon Orris, 
Sudhir Reddy, Dan Rosenberg, 
Ronak Singhal, Amanda Spear, 
Nathan Steinweld, James Stepanek, 
Jessica Strelitz, Andrew Wang, Su­
san Watson, Bradley Zimmerman
Art
Ryan Rhoads
Comics
Nick Casclato, Akira Hasegawa, 
Hlromi Hasegawa, Jack Liu, David 
Wingrove, David White
Photo
Ava Bal, Eva Bal, Diana Bartolotta, 
Anthony Chao, Elizabeth Kanabe, 
Anukul Kapoor, Barry Langer, Maciej 
Matyjas, Llsette Miiler-Dixon, 
Gustavo Sganzerla
Darkroom 
Yosef Birnboim, AmyCrlstomo, Ellas 
Fallon, Scott Hess, Colleen Man­
ning, Paul Moore
Production 
Kevin Babbitt, Steven Chai, Jenni­
fer LI, Izzlt Raheem, Anne Ray, Diana 
Rutherford, Alison Scudiere, Craig 
Soules
Copy
Lori Bowes, Mimi Cheng, Ivor 
Clarke, Helena McGahagan, Victor 
Ortega, Catherine Senderling
Business 
Michael Averbuch, GauravDudhoria, 
Patricia DiGiuseppi, Chris Hong, 
Stephen Hsu, Avinash Jain, Amit 
Sheth
Junior Staff 
Neil Babra, Melissa Batt, Vineet 
Chander, Rebecca Fribush, Chuck 
Fryman, Rhonda Gillespie, Eric Haas, 
Pratish Haladay, Eric Holowka, Will 
Isenhour, Ken Kwalik, Masha 
Kovarsky,Tom Lin, Kenneth Namkung, 
Danielle Pierratti, Jessica Rhodes, 
Jaya Saxena, Jason Scharfman, An­
drew Seymour, Reena Singhal, Meena 
Vagnier, Julie Wilson, Will Wood
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carn­egie Mellon University. It Is a weekly newspa­per published by students during the fall and spring semesters, at no cost to members of the University community. It Is printed by Western Pennsylvania Printing, Inc. Subscrip­tions are available for the semester or aca­demic year. The editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the offi­cial opinion of The Tartan editorial board. Columns and political cartoons are the opin­ions of Individual creators. The Tartan re­serves the right to reject or condense any column or political cartoon. Letters to the Editorare opinions of authors who are usually, but not necessarily, members of the Univer­sity community. A letter Intended for publica­tion must be signed and Include the writer's address and phone number for verification. Names may be withheld upon request. The Tartan requests that letters be no longerthan 500 words. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject any letter. Copyright © 1996 by The Tartan. The Tartan editorial board reserves the right to withhold from publica­tion any copy It dooms unfit for publication. Office: Student Center Room 104 Phone: 412/268-2111 Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/Cam- egle Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213- 3890Funded In part by your Activities Fee.All rights reserved.Library of Congress ISSN #:0890-3107.The Tartan Is a member of the Associated Press.Ap
HE TARTAI

---------------------------------------------------

'ir'
it’s not what you’ve got. 
it’s where you put it.
go for the Ur ban Collectibles 
1.3 eau de toilette spray, 
Hugo key chain and the 
coolest tin to put them in.
$35 worth of stuff.
Yours for $30.HUGO
Kaufmann ’s 
While Supplies Lasthttp://www.hugo.com
32edyhPfdL Mg/ lhMhP/ 
lsP Mgsy/ Wgs ygaR/ fMD,
’Simularli & l’imr» tniilr.iiK'i- Kaling An.ilyci*. I!M: Ij/'/vr.iii.ilyliuil.SVni'ir.'. Inc.. Uppor-llim'lor*' An.ilvlifàI I).iI.l /VVì ((ImirUrlyl t'HKFtvrlilïtïitfjiiirih.'ln/'iilri>hy /'ALItTfA’A'hii'irii'intliiml lii.-tilnli,‘ii.ilXrninv.O /99b Ttiiebrr.' /n.'iir.inre iini> riniwtly A.-.uieiiition/Ciilleiie Helirewent i/nilie.• FitniK rî/l Tbiri Arrime. AV«* York. A’l .
pa3fdL y/usdU MgshLgMy 
avshM •shP 1aNsP fd
Dentistry
EVERYONE WILL GIVE YOU 
THEIR TWO CENTS WORTH, BUT WILL 
THAT BE ENOUGH TO RETIRE ON?
Today there seems lo be an investment 
expert or financial advisor almost every­
where you turn. But just how qualified are all 
these experts?
Pcacc of mind about your future comes Irom 
solid planning. From investments and services 
designed and managed with your needs and 
retirement security specifically in mind. The kind 
of investments and services TIAA-CRFF has 
been providing lor more than years.
WE’LL HELP YOU BUILD A REWARDING RETIREMENT.
Our counselors are trained retirement profes­
sionals who have only you and your future in 
mind. So you Ye treated as the unique person 
you arc, with special needs and concerns about 
retirement. And that makes for an understand­
ing, comfortable relationship.
With TIAA-CRFF, you have plenty of choice 
and flexibility in building vour retirement nest 
egg- from TIAA's guaranteed traditional annuity 
to the investment opportunities of CRFF’s seven
variable annuity accounts. And we're nonprofit, 
so our expense charges are among the lowest in 
the insurance and mutual fund industries* That 
means more ol your money is where it should 
be - working for you.
TIAA-CRFF is now the largest private pension 
system in the world, based on assets under man­
agement - managing more than $150 billion in 
assets for more than one and a half million people 
throughout the nation.
TIAA-CREF:THE CHOICE THAT MAKES SENSE.
It's tough to wade through all the "advice" to find 
a reliable pension plan provider. But as a member 
of the education and research community, 3'our 
best choice is simple: TIAA CRFF Because when 
it comes to helping you pre >are lor retirement, our 
annuities will add up to n jre than spare change.
For more information about how TIAA-CRFF 
can help you prepare for the future, call our 
Fnrollmcnt Hotline at 1 800 842-2888.
the worldis getting smaller 
smell better.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 11 November 19967
Columnist rates network 
TV football commentators
NETWORK, from page 8
coaches: Don’t take up announcing when your 
current tenure ends).
But for all the bashing of TV announcers that is 
done, there are some exceptional ones as well. My 
personal favorite is Dick Enberg on NBC. Enberg 
not only brings a wide breadth of knowledge to the 
booth, but he also has a genuine, unbridled enthu­
siasm for the action within the game. Along with 
Enberg, my other personal favorite for football 
would be A1 Michaels. He too brings not only 
football knowledge, but a wide sports background 
to the booth, while maintaining the appropriate 
balance of banter and description.
Of course, this leads us now to the Monday Night 
Football crew. Why are they so maligned? Mainly, 
because everyone in the country sees them every 
week. That, and because Dan Dierdorf and Frank 
Gifford are not exactly what one would call astute 
observers of the game, as could be said for people 
like NBCs Paul Maguire or Madden (for as much as 
I just bashed him, he does usually have a clue about 
what’s going on). The Worst example of announc­
ers just being completely lost was earlier this 
year in the Steelers-Bills game. Eric Peagram 
was injured and had to leave the game. The ABC 
crew attributed this to Peagram being kicked in 
the head. In actuality, he had partially torn up 
his knee. It is easy, though, to see how those two 
injuries could be confused.
So, what would I like to see in my NFL broad­
casts? First, all three networks should adopt Fox’s 
innovation of showing the current status of the 
game constantly. Secondly, more highlights of other 
games occurring at the same time would also be
nice. Not everyone watching a Steeler game in 
Pittsburgh is doing so because of their love for the 
Black & Gold. Third, stop allowing ex-players and 
coaches to be announcers until at least four or five 
years after they’ve left the league. There are some 
exceptions to this rule, though, as Mike Ditka on 
NBC is just about everything a coach should be in 
a studio role. And finally, all the networks should 
attempt to hire Chris Berman. There is no one on 
sports broadcasting today that can match him.
Gaines of the Week:
Washington at Philadelphia: So, who’s the best 
running back in the NFC East this year? Sorry, 
Emmit, you’re third at best. Watch Ty Detmer 
hand off to Rickey Watters and Gus Ferotte hand 
off to Terry Allen, as these two rivals decide who is 
the new beast in the east. The Redskins are think­
ing revenge for their Week 1 loss, but they won’t get 
it this week.
Denver at New England: The two hottest AFC 
teams that don’t have a player named Bettis match 
up for what should be another aerial fest. The 
question here is whether anyone will cover the 
other team’s tight ends. Shannon Sharpe and Ben 
Coates have both been unstoppable so far this year. 
Take the Pats in a close upset.
Green Bay at Dallas: Thankfully, it’s not a Fox 
game. Deion Sanders usually matches up with the 
opponent’s top receiver. Does that mean he gets 
Don Beebe this week? Sorry, but any team that 
needs Beebe for their big plays is in trouble. The 
Pack will continue to be frustrated in Dallas.
Ronak Singhal is a senior ECE major.
Cross country excels at Regionals
XC, from page 12
Powers (14th, 19:27), freshman 
Andrea Byrnes (15th, 19:29), 
sophomore Erin Stapelfeld (60th, 
20:43), and freshmen Melissa 
Sloan (61, 20:44), Amy Antoci 
(83rd, 21:03), and Elizabeth 
Currid (96th, 21:17).
“I was very pleased with the 
way they ran,” said women’s coach 
Dario Donatelli. “[This season]
we only have two returning run­
ners, [all the other runners] are 
either freshmen or transfer stu­
dents, and this was the largest 
Regionals we’ve ever had.” 
Although the team did not make 
it as a whole, McGranaghan’s 
fifth-place finish qualifies her for 
individual competition at the 
National Championships. 
Donatelli said, “She should have
Intramural Sports Statistics
ALL SPORTS UPDATESOCCER RANKINGS
MENMAJORSMINORS
1. Beta —7501. (Tie) Real Mellon1. SAE
2. Theta Xi — 500GSIA2. Watson’s Wannabes
3. SAE —483FC Schlitz3. PKT Chaos
4. Gang Greene — 375SAE4. Chani’s Boys
5. Todd’s Team — 3005. Buttersville Bombers
Edbergs — 300INTERMEDIATE
1. PKT BrazilWATER POLO RANKINGS
WOMEN2. Beta Pele1. DU
1. Tartan Hoopers — 5753. DU Mighty Mamaus
2. Flying O’s — 3004. Navy UnitedSoccer playoffs are scheduled to
3. KSA —1505. Sig Tau Dimsumbegin on Sunday, November 17.
classified
JOBS
a shot at All-American [top 35 
finishers]. It’s going to be close, 
but I think she will have a chance 
at it.” Powers narrowly missed 
qualifying for national competi­
tion — her time of 19:27 missed 
the qualifying time by half a sec­
ond. Donatelli said, “I’m very 
pleased with [the women’s team’s] 
progress... things are looking ex­
tremely well for the future.”
Wanted Chinese 
language instructor/ 
Tutor.Knowledge of 
Mandarin with Shang­
hai accent 
desired.Graduate 
student preferred. 
Pittsburgh area.Call 
885-5503 days.
b'RA VEL
Low student and fac­
ulty fares to interna­
tional destinations. 
Good domestic fares, 
AYH and EURAIL 
passes. 9-5 M-F, 10- 
Noon Saturday. 4608 
Winthrop Street, off 
South Craig. Forum 
Travel 681-4099.
Classified Rates
1-20 words......$ 10.00/wk
21-50 words......$12.00/wk
51 -100 words....$ 15.00/wk
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Box 17 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
•Classifieds must be paid in cash or check 
before first run date
•On-campus departments and organizations 
may pay by journal transfer
•Due by 5 pm the Thursday before 
publication
THE TARTAN 
268-2111
9g//P hR6 aM 2/ayM 
•sh L/M free 
©Ph/ A/WaPUy 224 
lPs1 j©;©D
'Vbu’ve got a lot to grin about when you use AT&T or an 
AT&T Universal MasterCard-. Like an AT&T True Rewards 
Member Benefit Card. Just flash it and:
• Sam Goody/Musicland gives you a 15% discount 
on CDs and cassettes.
• “TCBY”* Treats gives you a freebie after you buy two.
• BLOCKBUSTER VIDEO' makes your third movie free 
when you rent two?
• Amtrak lets your companion travel lor 25% off 
But True Rewards is just one part of our special 
college package. Here are some more:
AlKTTrue Reach’Savings AIXTWjridNcf Scnice AT&f I hhmal MasterCard-
To sign tip for the AT&T True Rewards' Program, ca
1 800 654-0471
AT&T
Your True Choice
http://\vww.att.com/c:ollege

---------------------------------------------------

8The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 11 November 1996
ADMINISTRATION
Intramural Director — Mike 
Mastroianni X8-2214; Assistant Intra- 
¦ mural Director — Mike Grzywinski x8- 
1 2938; IM Secretary — Michelle Matta 
: xB-2053; IM President — Matt Will- 
• lams 621-8987; IM Women’s Presi- 
; dent — Pia Soriano 681-1031
IMPORTANT DATES
Tuesday— IM board meeting at 11:45 
nference room. 
Three-person volley-
; am in the gym conference room. 
• November 18
ball begins.
WATER POLO
Playoffs are scheduled to begin on 
i Wednesday, November 13. Teams 
: should call the IM office for playoff 
j times. The top four in each division 
; qualify for post-season play.
SOCCER
Games will continue to take place
• -Monday through Thursday evenings as 
well as Sunday afternoons. Teams are
¦ reminded that decisions about rain- 
outs will be made at the fields. Playoffs 
will begin this coming Sunday. Teams
~ are reminded to call Thursday after-
• noon for playoff dates and times.
L.
FOOSBALL
; Minors and majors playoff brackets 
j are out. All scores not reported were 
i counted as double forfeits. First round 
i matchups are listed below. Scores are 
| due no laterthan 8 am Monday 11/18.
¦
• MAJORS
Navy Officers Club vs. The Cranks 
i PiKATeamofTrashvs.TheFoozicists 
{ PiKA Team of Light vs. DU Word
: Navy Mids vs. Pika Probation
j MINORS
Due to lack of results only 3 teams 
j qualified forthe playoffs. The first round 
I is PiKA Team Rm. 38 vs. TX Cool. TSA 
; Gully received a bye.^ —
BOWLING
, . Matches began play last week at the 
; Pittsburgh Athletics Association on Fifth 
Avenue in Oakland. Matches will be
• bowled on Sundays through the first 
i week of December. Please report all
-scores to the office no later than Tues- 
; ’day at noon.
SIX-PERSON VOLLEYBALL
Playoffs begin tonight in the Univer- 
. -sity Center. Below are the first round 
"matchups. The finals will be held on 
Thursday evening.
Monday, November 11 
MINORS
6:30 pm — Beta Pledges 1 vs. Chimes 
Predators vs. Pane Killers 
7:30 pm — Beta Pledges 2 vs. PKT 40 
’ oz. of Freedom
; Gang Green vs. Three-Inch Vertical
Tuesday, November 12 
INTERMEDIATE 
. 6:30 pm — SAE Spike vs. Aqua Regia 
; -8:30 pm — PKT Nucks vs. Set of Spikes 
MAJORS
6:30 pm — Todd’s A Team vs. KSA
Chestnut
WOMEN’S
8:30 pm — KSA Dates vs. TSA Green Tea 
>9:30 pm — Pioneers Slam vs. Tartan 
j 'Hoopers B 
ft
RACQUETBALL, DARTS,
AND TABLE TENNIS
Schedules are out and available in 
the IM office. Please play as scheduled 
and report scores to the IM office.
Submitted by 
MIKE GRZYWINSKI
San Francisco $177 Frankfurt $219
Paris $229Athens $299Istanbul $319Tel Aviv $389Cairo$479rMts Mt dsf 3FcP dsW A1Wu- fFas sd a 5WsyM WsWJD raMf Us dsf PaMc ffPMW fFcf sJ nlt PsWhPu OK mo Eom6 a1sP/ sd as1huW uF KKMTut oiwcu r*t> Mato kwcw G&arMm.
Call for a FREE 
Student Travels Magazine!
ÌTravel kF6''Council
118 Meyran Ave. 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 (412) 683-1881h ttpi//wwux ciee.org/traceLh hn
Commentator’s love of Cowboys annoys columnist
From the Goal Line
by Ronak Singhal
In 1998, the most watched 
television event of the year — 
barring another Tonya 
Harding-style Winter Olympics 
— will be shown on Fox. And 
I’m not talking about the X- 
Files or Melrose Place either. 
No, next January, the televi­
sion network which brought 
such memorable shows as The 
Incredible Adventures of Beans 
Baxter and such technological 
advances (at least in their 
minds) as the glowing puck, 
will bring us the biggest an­
nual sporting event in the 
world. Let’s just hope that when
that day comes, the Dallas Cow­
boys are not one of the teams 
involved (and that’s not because 
of some intense hatred I harbor 
against them).
Of course, whenever Fox has a 
big game, they turn the announc­
ing duties over to their dynamic 
duo of Pat Summerall and John 
Madden. Madden is considered 
by most, critics and fans alike, to 
be the best color commentator in 
football today. His “common” ap­
proach to football, ranging from 
extolling the virtues of hard­
working players on the All-Mad­
den team to giving out turkey 
legs every Thanksgiving, has 
made him a hit with fans. Not to 
mention his creative use of the 
telestrator to depict such momen­
tous events as the sun setting 
during a game. But for all of his 
unique qualities, the one bad 
thing about Madden is his /% 
unabashed adoration for the 
Cowboys.
Madden does the “big”
game for Fox each week. That 
means he’s almost always doing 
a game that involves either the 
Cowboys or the 49ers. Maybe the 
saying that “familiarity breeds 
contempt” is not true in this case 
because it seems with each pass­
ing broadcast, Madden becomes 
more and more of a Cowboys fan. 
The worst example of this, 
to me at least, was several 
weeks ago in the Cowboys- 
Dolphins clash. Near the 
end of the game, a graphic 
was shown that listed the 
quarterbacks that have led 
their team to the most 4th 
quarter comebacks. At the top 
of the list were the familiar 
names, Marino, Elway, and 
Montana. Summerall then says 
that if he were start­
ing a football team, 
those are three good 
guys to start with. To 
which Madden re­
sponded to some­
thing to the effect of,
you can add Troy Aikman’s name 
to that list because he’s a Hall of 
Fame QB just like those guys.
How many comebacks ha 
Aikman led his team to in his 
career? Four. Marino has led the 
Dolphins to 40.1 see a slight dif- 
ference there. Plus, Troy showed 
his exceptional comeback skills 
two weeks ago in his stellar per­
formance against the Eagles.
But at least Madden and 
Summerall are tolerable. Yoii 
have to wonder how some curr 
rent NFL announcers passed thè 
screen test needed to get their 
job. An example of this on Fox is 
Jerry Glanville who was not à 
good coach in his time in Atlanta 
and Houston and is an even worse 
commentator. And this is not to 
say that Fox has a monopoly on 
bad announcers. NBC also h 
its share of annoying people, 
headed by former Cincinnati and 
Tampa Bay coach, Sam Wyche. 
(Note to all current AFC Central 
Please see NETWORK, page 7
Amtrak® fares, each way*, from Pittsburgh to:
New York City
iEE
Pittsburgh
Philadelphia$b2
Washington D.C.
The cheapest distance 
between two points just 
got cheaper...
Student Advantage® members 
save 15% on most fares.
To get a Student Advantage 
Savings Card, call 
I -800-96-AMTRAK®.
AMTRAK
For reservations call your travel agent orI -800-USA-RAIL
www.amtrak.com
* Fares shown are per person, each way based on round trip ticket purchase and are not good on certain blackout dates. 
Some destinations require reservations. Fares and schedule subject to change without notice. Other restrictions may apply.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 11 November 1996
Osuu/P lfdfyg/y y/aysd
SOCCER, from page 12
sophomore forward Harry 
Ulrich, which sent him down 
the field with one defender next 
to him. As Buelow and the de­
fender matched stride for stride 
and made their way to the 
Washington penalty area, the 
Washington goalie made his 
way out to greetthe two. Buelow 
was able to fight off the aggres­
sive defensive effort of the Wash 
U player and get a shot off. 
Although the shot was low and 
not fast-moving, it passed the 
Wash U goalie, who had come 
too far out of the net, and the 
ball was able to trickle into the 
left side of the goal.
CMU took its lead and didn’t 
let go. At times it looked as 
though Washington might 
equalize the score once again. 
However, the defense, and 
Kartzman in particular were
able to protect the precarious 
lead. Despite injuries to Buelow 
and freshman defender Brad 
Malin, the team was able earn 
yet another late-season victory.
After the game, Malin said, 
“It was a real confidence booster 
to beat Wash U ... This was a 
major win.”
The only questions remain­
ing now concern the post-sea­
son for the Tartan team. The 
win virtually guarantees a spot 
in the ICAC tournament, but 
what the team desperately 
wants is a berth in the more 
competitive NCAA tourna­
ment. If they are able to move 
up two spots to the number 
four ranking in the region, they 
will make it to the NCAA tour­
ney. It would not be impossible, 
and hopes are high. News of 
the tournament is due out in 
the very near future.
Hockey falls to Duquesne Dukes, 9-3
R-C yWf1 M/a1y 2ahdug 
y/aysd WfMg MgP// Wfdy
By ELLEN BELDNER
Tartan Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon’s swimming 
and diving teams have gotten 
off to a strong start this season, 
standing 3-0 after dual meets 
with Indiana University of 
Pennsylvania and a dual meet 
against John Carroll Univer­
sity and Grove City College.
The Tartans started out their 
season with a strong finish at 
the University of Rochester re­
lay meet tournament (at relay 
meets, there are no individual 
events, just a series of relay 
swims). The men finished first 
out of 11 teams, and the women 
finished fourth. “There were a 
lot of SUNY schools there,” said 
men’s team captain Tony Rippy. 
“They’re pretty good — it was a 
tough meet. We just swam re­
ally well.”
At the November 8 meet 
against Indiana University of 
Pennsylvania, both the men’s 
and women’s teams won. “That 
was another good meet,” says 
Rippy. “The main thing we 
wanted to do was try to repeat 
the performance at Rochester. 
It was a close meet; it came 
down to the last relay, but it’s
the most exciting that way.” The 
relay of senior captain Chris 
O’Rourke, freshman Mike 
Robinson, Rippy, and junior 
Jake McGuire won the event in 
1:28.0, setting a new pool record. 
Also notably, the women’s 200- 
yard medley relay swam within 
a second of the team’s record of 
1:49.56, set two years ago at the 
UAA championships.
The win against Grove City 
College came as a well-earned 
victory for the men’s and 
women’s teams. Neither the 
women’s or the men’s team had 
won over Grove City in the past 
three years. “Winning against 
Grove City was a big thing for 
us,” said women’s team captain 
Paige Angstadt.
“We swam above and beyond 
the call of duty at Grove City,” 
said Rippy.
Robinson won both the 200- 
and 500-yard freestyle races 
and was a member of the win­
ning 400-yard freestyle relay, 
while McGuire totaled in with 
wins in the 400-yard individual 
medley, 200-yard individual med­
ley, and 200-yard butterfly.
The team’s next meet is at 
Case Western Reserve Univer­
sity on November 16.
HOCKEY, from page 12
Buck in position near the net, 
blasted the puck towards him. 
Buck tipped the puck five-hole. 
The band went nuts. The Dukes, 
surprised, were outplayed by 
CMU for the rest of the period. 
On the power play and with a 
little more than a minute left, 
junior Paul Voulgaris gained con­
trol of the puck and sent it to Paul 
who again saw Buck in potential 
scoring position. Buck raced down 
the right side of the ice, and 
wristed it over the goalie’s left 
side, scoring his second of the 
night. “Anthony and Paul were 
really seeing the ice well tonight,” 
Buck said of his linemates.
In all of the pandemonium, 
Duquesne fought back to score a 
lucky goal in the last few seconds 
of the period. The Tartans still 
skated off the ice charged for 
more, the score standing at 6-2, 
Dukes. When they returned, 
there was a change in 
goaltenders. Kliegman had 
turned back fifteen shots in his 
stint and now freshman Gil Min 
was standing between the pipes.
With the ice still fresh from 
being cut between periods, 
Duquesne rushed Min and took 
their first shot which just slid in 
under his blocker. CMU bunched 
around the puck, playing tired. 
The defense was ran ragged with 
the puck always in their zone. 
The blue and red of the Dukes’ 
jerseys was smeared all over the 
Tartan white. Min played deep in 
net. They crashed it again, scor­
ing another in close.
But, with the score 8-2, CMU 
knew that they had to relax. The 
Dukes took several penalties half­
way through the period, creating 
a 5-3 playing situation. Coach 
Maddalena sent the first line out 
a minute into the power play and 
defenseman Voulgaris again 
came up with the puck. Voulgaris 
passed to Buck in the slot, and 
Buck flipped the puck in to score
his third goal of the night. Hats 
came down to the ice and the 
huge CMU crowd cheered deaf- 
eningly in the little rink. This 
was Jim Buck’s third multi-goal 
game in this young season, mak­
ing him the team points leader.
Another Duke goal ended the 
game, though Min played admi­
rable back-up with nine saves. 
Coach Maddalena praised the per­
formance of the entire defense: 
senior assistant captain Chris 
Adukaitis, grad student Blair 
Echols, player/coach Tom Sullivan, 
juniors Bryan Campo and David 
Mitzel, freshman Graham Hicks 
and Voulgaris with the two as­
sists. He also praised the goaltending 
performance of Kliegman and Min. 
“[Duquesne] scored some goals, and 
that will happen.”
Maddalena had much praise 
for Buck’s three-goal perfor­
mance. “When you have a player 
that comes out and scores a hat 
trick in a game like this, that’s 
very special. It’s not like just an­
other game.”
Maddalena said, “Tonight we 
took another step towards becom­
ing the best team. We played bet­
ter against this team than we did
WVU last weekend. The offense 
needs a little more and we know 
that, but the first line played well, 
Buck didn’t do it alone.
Next weekend is the big test for 
CMU, with three league games. 
Friday night, the team travels to
Erie for a match against 
Edinboro. On Saturday night, the 
Tartans are home at Neville 
against rivals Slippery Rock Uni­
versity at 8 pm. Then on Sunday, 
they travel to Indiana, PA for an 
afternoon game against IUP.
Tony Chao/Tartan Photo Staff 
Sophomore Steve Leonhardt challenges a Duquesne skater’s possession 
of the puck.
SHIPPINGFAXCOPIESSTAMPS
UPS AUTHORIZED SHIPPING OUTLET
MAIL BOXES ETC
¦ UPS—We specialize in packaging & shipping computers worldwide
¦ International moving and crating
¦ Private mailbox rentals—Receive UPS & FedEx packages 
• Photocopying—As low as 30 per copy
¦ Instant passport photos
¦ Fax service: (412) 687-6136
414 S. Craig St. (Near Forbes Ave. & Carnegie Museum) 687-6100
MAILBOXES
way5/Mva22 RP/3f/W0
The women’s basketball team will play an 
exhibition against the AM ALL-STARS, a 
collection of Carnegie Mellon staff and fac­
ulty members. The game will be played on 
Thursday, November 14, at 7 pm in the 
Skibo Gymnasium.
Come out and get a sneak preview of the 
1996-97 Lady Tartans.
PEACE CORPS world wise Inside
For further information about Peace Corps, write Box 896, Washington DC 20526
INSTRUCTIONS: The Peace Corps has volunteers serving in more than 80 nations around the world. By solving this puzzle, you will learn about one of these countries.
Solve the four numbered puzzle words and then unscramble the letters in the squares to produce the name of the country darkened on the map at the right.
West African nation about half 
the size of Illinois, the coastal 
area of which was once used 
as a home for blacks 
discharged from the British 
armed forces.
\i Ti'lhilis. lalenl runs derp. spirit is (hiring, ami ideas cnincmi strung. Siiiri your hireer here. sind well . .'asi-tmck il in ilu' telrronuiiunicaiioiis front irr. (y, Our innovations'll! trlreommunieationsareimparlini» ihr way ihr world communicates.
All« I. nur imprrssivr financial performance has an nil irr iiulusiry taking notier of where 
\\e re going...forward .fast forward.
Our 22-year-old. global Urin designs and nianufaclurrssialr-of-ilir-art leleconimu- nications r<|uipmrhl lor ihr local and long distance carrier market. cellular and wire­less industries, and cable TV companies.
With ovrr snöii million in revenues last year, we’ve set ns nur ¿{uni “2B by 2K"—1 billion in annual revenues by the year 21 HID. And. were 
right on track.
CuiTenlly. we have <>iiisl:iiiclim4 «»pporlintilic*s for. ill graduates majoring in Computer Science. 
Computer Engineering. Elrrlrirsil Engineering. In:
. 9Aej©e Otr©BjAe OtVC©YtzO tz ©pe 
9C©©YzG eHGe COYzG O©j©extrx©pex 
jA© OpVjeAx-eVVtA twbe9© 
tAYez©eH -e©ptHtVtG­D
. pjZe rCz -ee©YzG ©pe 9pjVVezGeO tr 
VjAGexO9jVe AejVx©Y-e Otr©BjAe 
HeZeVtn-ez© jO njA© tr jz ezeAGYIeHD 
H­zj-Y9 ©ej-D
To fmd «ml how you can realize your full poi rill ini will» an rutrrprrtirurial company ruminine;) to.shared excellence, 
send a rover letter ami resume (include gradual ion dale. til’A and soliwaiWliardware prrfrrrnre) in: TELLABS, 
College Relations Dept. CMU, 1000 Remington Blvd., Bolingbrook, IL 60440. 
FAX: 630-378-4493. AA/EOE.
__________________www.tellabs.coniRight Time, Right Place, e-mail: coIlegegraduates@tellabs.coin
care1
©rM/22avy
1. A beverage made generally by 
percolation, infusion or decoction 
from the roasted and ground beans 
of a plant of the same name.
2. An oily flammable bituminous liquid 
that this country must import.
3. Title of the chief executive in a 
parliamentary system.
4. Ocean on which this country lies.
Time. There isn’t enough of 
the stuff around. And there’s 
so much we all want tG do.
But just because a day is still 
only 24 hrs long doesn't 
mean you can’t stay involved. 
Read about it in The Tartan
The Tartan is News, Features, 
Sports, Forum, Diversions, 
Calendar.
7,000 copies every Monday 
— Informing Carnegie Mellon 
for 91 years.

---------------------------------------------------

blah blah blah
blah „ . m blah’ds7 dsM lsP Mg/1X
» hlah . , r hi ah . . . hlah ui-u. Nah , hlah , M
blah blah ' blah blah blah blahblah blah blah blah. blah blfh blah
lsP R/sR2/ •sh uad MPhyMStudent Senate
ELECTIONS
Tuesday: Warner Hall/Forbes Ave 10-5 
Wednesday: Doherty Hall 10 - 5
Thursday: Kirr Commons, UC 10-6
Rain Location: Kirr Commons, UC

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 11 November 199611
Montreal Canadiens 
traded into obscurity
From the Point
by Jason Andracki
The Montreal Canadiens are off to 
another mediocre season. Since win­
ning the Stanley Cup in 1993, it’s been 
a downward spiral for the NHL’s most 
storied team. 1995 saw the unthink­
able happen — the Canadiens missed 
the playoffs for the first time in my 
lifetime. It was surely one of the signs 
of the end.
Although the Habs made it to the 
playoffs last year, they still didn’t ad­
vance past the first round. Last sea­
son saw a major roster shake-up with 
Patrick Roy and then captain Mike 
Keane being shipped to Colorado. The 
unsteady roster, coupled with a lack of 
depth in the farm system, has turned 
the legendary Canadiens into just an­
other face in the crowd of average- 
achieving franchises.
I may sound harsh, but in the span 
of three years, Ron Caron has disas­
sembled what was once my favorite 
team. First Guy Carbonneau was 
traded to Dallas in the aftermath of 
the lock-out, beginning the curse of 
the captain’s C.
Since Carbonneau, no player has 
lasted more than one season as cap­
tain — Kirk Muller, Mike Keane, 
and just three weeks ago, Pierre 
Turgeon. I don’t envy Vincent 
Damphousse.
Next, my three favorite defensemen, 
J.J. Daignault, Eric Desjardins, and 
Mathieu Schneider, were traded, along 
with Captain Kirk Muller. Last sea­
son I tossed my Canadiens cap and 
jersey into the bottom of my closet
with the trade of Patrick Roy. I know 
Roy wasn’t exactly a good sportsman, 
but he was the last of my favorite 
players to go.
Things are looking a little better for 
the blue and red, at least in my eyes. 
Before the start of this season, the 
highly overrated Lyle Odelein was 
traded for Stepane Richer, one of the 
late 1980s Habs that I loved. Richer’s 
five points in 15 games isn’t spectacu­
lar, especially considering number 44 
could be counted on to put in at least 
40 goals a season, but once he’s 
reacclimated to the spotlight in 
Montreal I think his career will be 
revived.
Just three weeks ago, the Habs 
brought another of my favorites back 
into the fold. Rugged but oft-injured 
winger Shayne Corson was dealt back to 
the team with whom he came into the 
league, and Captain Pierre was sent to 
Mike Keenen’s St. Louis Blues. Keenen 
also threw in Murray Baron to make 
Brett Hull the only player wearing the 
Bluenote left from Keenen’s takeover 
three years ago.
Richer and Corson aren’t going to be 
bringing the Stanley Cup into the 
Molson Centre for the first time, but 
it’s at least a start. If the Canadiens 
could reaquire either Desjardins or 
Schneider, both of whom have really 
blossomed into top defensemen, then 
they could have the potential to make 
a run for the Cup.
Patrice Brisbois and Stephane Quin­
tal are not the kind of blueliners that 
win championships. Hopefully the 
Habs will finish rebuilding in time to 
pick up the Stanley Cup sometime in 
the next decade, otherwise another 
tradition will die.
Jason Andracki is a senior profes­
sional writing major. With the Corson 
deal he swapped his Blues cap for his 
old Canadiens cap.
If the management can bring Mats 
Naslund out of retirement, then he’ll 
don his jersey proudly.
Gambling hurts spirit of game
The Pigskin Pundit
by Chris Cannon
I gambled once. Shocking, I know, but 
I was young at the time. It was at recess 
when I was twelve that I bet my team 
would win a football game. We didn’t 
and I lost my quarter.
This comes to mind, because at least 
thirteen Boston College football play­
ers have become similar gamers. So 
what’s the difference between me and a 
few Eagles who have been known to 
make the occasional wager? Two things: 
athletic scholarship and principle.
Scholarships are not gifts — they are 
agreements. If the University of Cash 
pays for your tuition, it’s doing so to 
bring you, your talent, and your good 
standing to campus. With athletic schol­
arships come special rules. You 
not only have to portray the im­
age of a good human being, but 
you have to “play ball” too. This 
includes, but is not limited to,
refraining from the joys that other stu­
dents may indulge in: accepting money 
from alumni, taking cars from agents, 
and gambling (even when legal).
But what’s so wrong about gambling? 
Isn’t it a better alternative for collegiate 
football players than beating up mem­
bers of your track team, attacking fra­
ternity members, stealing from motels, 
or assaulting your former girlfriend (just 
this week’s developments)? Surely gam­
bling wasn’t the worst offense commit­
ted by the 66 percent of athletes who 
admitted to breaking NCAA rules in a 
recent study.
The problem lies in the trust, prin­
ciple, and spirit of the game that’s cor­
rupted when the participants gamble.
Many sports would not be possible 
without a mutual trust between contes­
tants. Nowhere is this more true than in 
football, where a player’s career or life 
can end on any play. If the players have 
financial stakes in the game, whether 
they’re betting for or against their team 
(as two BC players allegedly did), who’s 
to say what levels they’ll stoop to in order 
to win or lose the game?
On a more abstract level, the principle
Cal endr .rssr eiif ormf cnLlnv
Thursday, November 14, 1996 
4:30-5:30 pm 
Danforth Lounge, University Center
The Author: Charles Murray
The BOOK: Losing Ground: American Social Policy, 1950-1980 
The Reviewer: Professor Daniel Resnick
Daniel Resnick is Professor of History at Carnegie Mellon and a member of 
Phi Beta Kappa. His work focuses on the relationship of historical thinking 
and experience to the development of social policy. He is known for his work 
on assessment, mass literacy, student achievement, and the context for policy 
reform. He has this to say about the author and the book:
"Charles Murray, social scientist and writer, is a Bradley Fellow at the 
American Enterprise Institute. This work, which appeared ten years before The 
Bell Curve, presented the empirical evidence for the failure of the American 
welfare state. This year policy-makers radically changed the funding and 
direction of welfare policy, responding to the critique made by Murray and 
others. It is a good time to talk about this book."
• PBK Book Talks are free and open to the public 
• Coffee and cookies will be provided compliments of The Bagel Factory 
• Book available for purchase at the University Bookstore (look for the Phi Beta Kappa display)
in college athletics is that whenever a 
student athlete steps onto the field, 
court, or into a pool, he or she is there 
for the love of the game. Professional 
sports are supposed to be for those who 
pursue the financial aspect of sports. If 
college competitors are betting on the 
World Series and NFL games (like the 
BC thirteen), it reflects what can only 
be a less than pure amateur spirit.
But in a more damning way, gam­
bling takes away any greatness from 
sports that may transcend the mere 
outcome of the game. This works not 
just in college football, but at all levels 
of competition. How much shallower 
would a champion like MuhammedAli 
seem if instead of declaring “I am the 
greatest!” he said “I needed the money”?
When the players are betting on other 
sports contests and even against their 
own team, the pyramid of trust, sports­
manship, and the principle of gaming 
crumbles.
When the players are gamblers it 
ruins the game.
Game of the Week:
#14 Penn State at #9 Michigan, Sat­
urday at noon. The Wolverines gear up 
for a showdown with Ohio State; win 
by a safety.
Second fiddle: #11 Kansas State at 
#7 Colorado, Saturday at 
7:00 pm. Buffaloes pre­
pare for Nebraska. Win 
by a touchdown, field 
goal, and a missed 
extra point, wide 
right.
Chris Cannon is 
a sophomore com­
puter science ma­
jor and Assistant 
News Editor for 
The Tartan.
His ability to see 
the future is comes 
from eating too 
many stale Chee- 
tos, pork rinds, 
and other culinary 
delights.
4740 BAUM BLVD. 
Open 7 days a wee
Sun - Thurs 
11 am - 2 am
Fri & Sat 
11 am - 3 am
nYIIj
tC©Ve©
WE DELIVER GREAT TASTE 
TOYOURDOOR
Oakland / CMU
687-9555
WE ACCEPT CAMPUS 
EXPRESS AND 
DINE EXPRESS

---------------------------------------------------

Cross country 
goes to Nationals
By PAUL BOOTHE
Tartan Sports Editor
The men’s and women’s cross 
country teams traveled to 
Dickinson College this week­
end to challenge over 40 other 
teams at the NCAA Regional 
Championships. The men’s 
team put in a remarkable per­
formance, placing second over­
all. The women’s team placed 
fourth, but sophomore 
Maureen McGranaghan took 
fifth place, earning the right 
to participate at the NCAA 
National Championships.
The men’s team took a strong 
second place at the meet with 
100 points, beating the third- 
place team, Franklin & 
Marshall College, by 24 points. 
Men’s coach Gary Meckley said, 
“They ran very well — prob­
ably their best race of the sea­
son.” This second-place finish 
catapults the team to the NCAA 
Championships this Satur­
day, where they will compete 
with the best NCAA teams in 
the country.
The men’s team ran as a tight 
pack, with less than 30 seconds 
passing between the Tartan’s 
first and fifth runners. Sopho­
more Kristo Kriechbaum led 
the Tartans, placing ninth with 
a time of26:40, closely followed 
by freshman Kenn Oldham 
(17th, 26:52), senior Scott 
Moore (23rd, 27:02), sophomore 
Josh Donner (26th, 27:05), and 
freshman Bryan Meyer (28th, 
27:07). Meckley said, “I knew 
that if they were on, we would 
have a good chance at making 
it [to Nationals], and they were 
certainly on.”
‘This will be everybody’s first 
try at the National Champion­
ship,” said Meckley. “We just 
have to try to keep relaxed and 
go for the best that we can do.” 
The Tartan women’s cross 
country team also put in a great 
performance, placing fourth 
with 143 points—the top three 
teams advanced to Nationals. 
McGranaghan came in fifth 
place with a time of 18:55, fol­
lowed by sophomore Margaret 
Please see XC, page 7
Men’s soccer fights off Bears, 2-1
By NATHAN STEINWALD
Tartan Staffwriter
Last Sunday, the men’s soccer 
team took to the field for the last 
game of the regular season at 
home against Washington Uni­
versity. For the Tartans, who 
were ranked sixth in the region 
according to National list­
ings, the game repre­
sented the last chance to 
try and move up into a 
slot for the NCAA tour­
nament. Washington 
held the fourth and final 
spot that would make the 
NCAAs.
Previous wins and 
strong games against 
highly-ranked teams like 
Emory had revived the 
hope that it was possible 
to move into a fourth- 
place ranking in the re­
gion. If they were able to 
make it into the top four 
teams in the region, they 
would earn a trip to the 
NCAA Championship 
Tournament. News of the 
tournament berths was 
due out on Sunday — 
however, even if the Tar-
NCAA tournament, there is still 
the ICAC tournament, in which 
the team is almost assured a spot.
Both teams felt the pressure of 
the rankings and the last game of 
the season pushing them on to 
take control of the game. In the 
battle for control, it was CMU 
that would take the decisive first
step and score a goal. Captain 
Suraj Naik was able to slide the 
ball past the Wash U goalie and 
give the Tartans the lead. Due to 
the fact that a loss would prob­
ably make them drop in ranking 
and steal away their chance at 
the NCAAs, Wash U put the pres­
sure on and moved the ball into
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Managing Editor
tans fail to reach the Sophomore forward Harry Ulrich beats a defender to attack the goal.
CMU territory. Less than two 
minutes after the goal, Wash U 
earned a direct kick outside of 
the penalty area. They were able 
to score with a hard shot that 
freshman goalie Ben Kartzman 
was unable to save.
Halfway through the first half, 
however, CMU got a scare after 
freshman defender David 
Huryk was helped to the 
ground by a Washington for­
ward. Huryk rolled on his 
ankle, and suffered a severe 
sprain. He was unable to re­
turn to the game, but he 
should be able to return to 
the lineup for the next game.
The second half was char­
acterized by physical play 
and back-and-forth control 
of play. The need to win drove 
both teams to test their lim­
its, both personal and legal. 
Wash U seemed to receive 
the most calls against it for 
its variations on holding 
hands, pushing, and shar­
ing elbows with the Tartans. 
After making several at­
tempts to get a good shot off 
on the Washington goalie, 
junior forward Jason Buelow 
got open for a pass from 
Please see SOCCER, page 9
Volume 91, Issue 10The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania11 November 1996
Hockey falls to DuquesneVolleyball places sixth at UAA tourney
Tartan football team edges out Muhlenberg in final-second scoring drive
By PAUL BOOTHE
Tartan Sports Editor
Although the Tartans have al­
ready secured themselves a por­
tion of the UAA title and the 
conference season is over, the 
Tartan football team hasn’t let 
up as they finish off the year. The
team hit the road this weekend to 
tackle a tough squad from 
Muhlenberg College, and edged 
them out in the final seconds of 
the game, 23-20.
Coach Rich Lackner said, “We 
were able to pull it out in the end
— its a great credit to the kids 
and coaches.”
Gustavo Sganzerla/Tartan Photographer
Freshman fullback Mike Cample sprints downfleld with blocking from 
senior offensive tackle Sam Lybarger.
The Mules scored first, driving 
downfield to make the score 7-0. 
The Tartans answered with a 
strong drive of their own — they 
couldn’t put the ball in the 
endzone, but freshman kicker Pat 
O’Malley put a 30-yard field goal 
between the uprights to put the 
first Tartan points on the 
scoreboard. In the second quar­
ter, Muhlenberg kicked a suc­
cessful field goal of their own to 
re-establish their seven-point 
lead, and the 10-3 score lasted 
until halftime. The teams ex­
changed possession throughout 
the third, until freshman full­
back Mike Campie ran the ball 
32 yards into the endzone for a 
touchdown. O’Malley’s success­
ful extra point attempt tied the 
score at 10-10. The Mules then 
surged ahead, completing another 
field goal, and recovering a Tar­
tan fumble to score a touchdown.
CMU was down 20-10 with 
only 1:35 remaining in the game 
when the Tartans took total con­
trol of the game. After the 
Muhlenberg touchdown, the 
CMU offense returned the punt 
to the Muhlenberg 41-yard line. 
From there, they continued to 
force the ball upfield, ending in a 
16-yard pass from senior quar­
terback Dave Soltysik to senior 
wide receiver Casey Smith. 
O’Malley made the extra point to 
close the gap to three points. With 
the clock standing with just over 
a minute left to play, the Tartans 
forced a big defensive play. On
By JESSICA STRELITZ
Tartan Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon University 
hockey team played host to an unlikely 
visitor on Saturday night. The Tartans 
had not seen this opponent since the 
seniors on the team were freshmen. The 
Duquesne Dukes, currently playing their 
regular season games in a higher divi­
sion than CMU, crushed Carnegie Mellon 
in exhibition play Saturday night, 9-3. 
The Tartan’s record dropped to 2-4-1.
In the first period, the Tartans got to 
feel the speed of the game, faster than 
their normal pace. Shots clanged all 
over the ice, into the netting, off the 
ceiling, and towards the net. After 
Duquesne calmed down and regrouped, 
they pounced. The first victim was the 
CMU offense, who was thrown viciously. 
CMU was aggressive, but simply one 
step behind this stronger Duquesne 
squad. The second victim was senior 
goalie Jon Kliegman, who was barraged 
with twelve shots in the first, almost 
every one of them definite goal scoring 
opportunities. The odd-man breaks for
Duquesne were plentiful and they scored 
first, ten minutes in to the regulation 
period. The band was silent. Two min­
utes later, they scored again. The period 
ended uneventfully. CMU had been out 
shot 12-2.
After another quick Duquesne goal in 
the second period, the Tartans seemed 
to pick up the pace. The second line of 
senior Relja Ivanovic, junior Derek 
Jander, and freshman P.J. Gryzwacz 
fought hard to the net, Jander hitting 
hard and Ivanovic making some key 
defensive moves when Duquesne was in 
the zone. The first line of seniors Jim 
Buck and Anthony Paul and junior Scott 
Fitzgerald were actually penetrating the 
offensive zone and getting a few shots off 
before being muscled out. After two more 
Duquesne odd-man rushes with subse­
quent goals, within a minute of each 
other, Coach Maddalena called a time 
out. The score was 5-0, Duquesne.
The short break helped, as less than 
two minutes later, Fitzgerald won a face 
off that led to control of the puck by 
CMU. Paul took the pass, and seeing 
Please see HOCKEY, page 9
the kickoff, senior punter Frank 
Triggiani fired off an on-sides 
kick, which was recovered by jun­
ior defensive back Jody Rogish. 
This special-teams play proved to 
be the key for the Tartan come­
back, as the offense began a seven- 
play, 72-yard drive to the endzone. 
With seven seconds on the clock, 
Soltysik connected with senior 
Buck Neel for an eight-yard pass 
and another Tartan touchdown. 
Although the extra point was wide, 
the effort was more than enough 
as the Tartans piled back on to the 
bus with a 23-20 victory. Lackner 
said, “In the end, we showed a lot 
of poise and put two quick points 
on the board.”
The Tartans played well 
throughout the game, but were 
plagued by turnovers, 
which stalled their scor­
ing drives. Lackner said,
“It was one of those 
games where we went up 
and down the field, but 
we shot ourselves in the 
foot several times — you 
can’t do that.” The CMU 
offense threw two inter­
ceptions, in addition to 
giving up four fumbles.
The defensive squad also 
forced Muhlenberg to 
turn over the ball twice
— senior defensive back 
Albie Fletcher inter­
cepted a pass, and junior 
nose guard Chad Heald 
fell on a Muhlenberg 
fumble. According to
Lackner, junior defensive tackle 
Anima Nwankwo kept good pres­
sure on the Muhlenberg quarter­
back throughout the game.
CMU dominated the statistics, 
coming out on top in virtually 
every category. The offense had 
210 rushing yards and 163 pass­
ing yards, overwhelming 
Muhlenberg’s 193 total yards. 
Lackner was pleased, and said, 
“Any time you hold the other team 
to under 200 yards, the defense is 
doing one hell of a job.”
Soltysik averaged 12-27 pass­
ing this weekend, throwing two 
interceptions, but also two touch­
down passes. Campie led the 
rushing yardage with 17 rushes 
for 96 yards. The running game 
was also helped by Neel, who ran
for 50 yards. The team also had 
22 first downs, but they were 
hurt by their third-down conver­
sions, converting only six of thir­
teen. “The defense played very 
well,” said Lackner. “Offensively 
we played well, butwe just turned 
over the ball too many times.” 
The Tartans return to Gesling 
Stadium this Saturday as they 
host Union College, kicking off 
at 1:30 pm. Lackner expects this 
match-up to be “a great chal­
lenge for us against a great foot­
ball team.”
At halftime, the team will 
honor its seniors, and Lackner 
looks forward to another great 
fan turnout to end the season. 
He said, “We really love the fan 
support.— its been fabulous.”
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Managing Editor 
Freshman quarterback Russ Clay punches a hole through the opponent’s 
defensive line, with help from junior tight end Chris Barnicle.
By JASON SCHARFMAN
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Led by team captain Sarah 
Pacocha and the guidance of new 
head coach Julie Webb, the Tar­
tan volleyball team finished their 
season on a positive note, by 
placing sixth in the annual UAA 
tournament. Last year, the team 
did not place at all in the tourna­
ment, but Webb said that this 
year’s squad had “the opportu­
nity to place in the top fojur 
teams.” However, in a difficult 
game against the University of 
Chicago, which the team lost 3-1, 
the Tartans gave up their chance 
to place in the winners bracket.
Webb said, “We fought for ev­
ery point, it was a great game.” 
Despite crushing NYU and 
Brandeis 3-0, the Tartans even­
tually went on to lose to Roches­
ter 3-1 to finish in sixth place for 
the tournament. Webb said, “Our 
offense played a major role in 
each of our victories — we were
in control of the game.” Making 
few errors, Webb felt that the team 
was not strugglingjust to stay alive, 
butthattheteamis“gettingtheball 
down on the other side.”
Also playing a major role in the 
Tartan’s wins were sophomore 
Tawnya Sunderland and senior 
Stephanie Postal, who were each 
responsible for several of the 
Tartan’s points in the games 
againstNYU andBrandeis. Webb 
said, “We exhibited an overall out­
standing team effort, and that’s 
why we won.”
The team finished with an over­
all record of 11-21 for the year. 
Seeking to “recruit some height” 
for next season and work on play­
ers individual skills in the off sea­
son, Webb said that she was very 
pleased with the team’s perfor­
mance. She said, “They showed 
100 percent improvement.” The 
outlook for the team was summed 
up by Webb when she said, “We’re 
a very young team and we have 
no place to go but up.”
Gustavo Sganzerla/Tartan Photographer 
The Tartan volleyball squad hammers home a point.

---------------------------------------------------

T TTTT1T/Mmignraraniianinra
V82 ­ 22zZN
Financial aid leaves students scrounging for money
3y ERIC SALZMAN
Tartan Personnel Manager
Before the financial aid office was 
combined with four other administra­
tive offices last year to form The HUB, 
there was an office on the third floor of 
Warner Hall with approximately seven 
financial aid counselors. The sole func­
tion of those counselors was to help 
students with their concerns about pay­
ing for school. Now students must go 
;o The HUB to deal with their finan- 
:ial aid questions. The HUB has six 
full-time staffers doing the work of five 
offices combined, but these numbers 
add up to better service according to 
John Matsko, assistant director for 
enrollment services.
“I think The HUB is offering 
better service,” he said.
“There’s more cohesiveness
dealing with one person 
about all of your issues.”
Students, however, do 
not necessarily appre­
ciate the relocation.
Rada Stone, a senior 
electrical and computer 
engineering major, does 
not enjoy having to talk 
about her financial aid situ­
ation in The HUB with a line 
of people behind her. “I would 
have liked to
after her first year (’93-’94) by about 
25 percent. “They never told me why 
they decreased my aid,” Rutiaga said 
of The HUB. Rutiaga’s father is in the 
navy and was out at sea for her sopho­
more year, so her family’s
earnings were actu­
ally lower than the 
year before. Frus­
trated with fruit­
less phone 
calls to 
The
to some­
body in private 
about my per­
sonal situation 
... I didn’t feel 
the world 
needed to know 
my business,” she
Feelings about the 
financial aid service 
from The HUB are var­
ied. Jeanie Rutiaga, who is 
not currently enrolled, said that 
often gets the run around on the 
phone but that her father gets a com­
pletely different response when he 
calls. “It’s a whole different story once 
you get a parent to call,” she said.
“The level of understanding between 
students and parents is different,” said 
Matsko who maiptained that students 
and parents should be treated equally 
by The HUB because they are both 
customers.
Rutiaga said her aid was decreased
The summer before her junior year, 
Rutiaga again received information 
telling her that her aid had been cut. 
This time her own efforts were useless; 
it was not until her father began mak­
ing phone calls that her fi- ------------
nancial aid package was re­
stored to what it had been.
Jim Statile, a sophomore 
civil engineer, has also had 
communication problems 
with The HUB. Statile said 
that he chose to attend 
Carnegie Mellon over
Cornell Univer- ¡¡¡¡¡¡¡^^¡¡¡¡| 
sity because of 
the financial aid package 
he received. He said 
that he checked with 
The HUB a number of 
times to make sure 
that the scholarship he 
received was merit 
based and not need 
based. Despite numer­
ous attempts to clarify 
the nature of his schol­
arship, Statile said, “I 
never found out if I had 
to have a certain GPA.
I assumed that I didn’t 
lose it last year because
I didn’t get any notifi­
cation in the mail or any 
warning.”
Statile said that he re­
ceived a letter this past 
summer informing him 
that close to 75 percent of 
his scholarship was being 
taking away because of his
Figgiur Fnoitinfaonuog Editor-In-Chief
HUB, Rutiaga called the President’s 
office to complain. “15 minutes later I 
got a call from the financial aid office.
I actually got more money than the 
year before.”
inaccurately represented because 
of a financial loss from the previous 
year. “I wouldn’t have a problem with 
this had they presented it to me as a 
need based scholarship,” he said. “But 
it was presented as a merit scholar­
ship which wouldn’t go away over the 
four years.”
According to Matsko, “all of the non­
need based scholarships are awarded 
through the admissions office,” indi­
cating that Statile’s scholarship must 
have been need based. The remaining 
confusion relates to why Statile was 
repeatedly told the wrong information.
Stone, whose father passed away last 
year resulting in a large loss of income
for her family, had to wait four and a that I could now be considered inde­
half months to have her financial aid pendent because I wanted to return to 
situation resolved. “[The HUB] is ex- school full-time this year and gradu- 
tremely understaffed, which makes it ate. I was told that the guidelines have 
difficult to get results,” she said. changed.” After almost four years of
----------------------------------------------------------------------------- working to gain status
as independent of her 
parents, Brady was 
suddenly informed 
that the federal guide­
lines for independence 
had changed and that 
she did not qualify.
In this year’s April 1 
Wall St. Journal finan­
cial aid article one of 
Carnegie Mellon’s lesser-known finan­
cial aid policies was pointed out. “After 
admitted students receive their finan­
cial aid offers in the spring,” the Jour­
nal reported, “they are invited to fax 
the school any better offers they re­
ceive from other colleges.” Jay Blanco, 
senior biology major, did just that with 
his offer from Boston University. “On a 
Sunday morning, some lady called me 
and ‘said we’ll match Boston U. and 
give you a couple hundred more,’ ” he 
said. With his best financial aid offer 
coming from CMU, Blanco decided to 
attend without ever seeing the cam­
pus.
Part of his scholarship was merit 
based, requiring a 3.0. His sophomore 
year, Blanco shredded his knee in an 
intramural football game and had to 
receive surgery. “I was put on heavy 
drugs and had to go in for intense 
physical therapy,” Blanco said. He 
chose to remain in school that semes­
ter, which resulted in a QPA falling 
below the necessary 3.0. However, 
Blanco claims that he was told by Eric 
Grotzinger, the associate dean of biol­
ogy, that because of his medical condi­
tion, his scholarship would not be al­
tered. By the spring semester of his 
sophomore, year, Blanco had lost his 
scholarship.
“Any dreams I had of being a normal 
student kind of fell through,” Blanco 
said. “I spent most of my time spring 
semester trying to balance classes, 
battles with financial aid, and making 
money.”
Blanco met with Linda Anderson, 
director of financial aid, to explain his 
situation. The meeting ended without 
any changes being made in Blanco’s 
Please see FINANCIAL AID, page L3
—DDD Trying to get a straight answer 
from this school is damn near impos­
sible
¦ Jay Blanco, senior biology major
Stone found herself angered when 
she was told by a HUB associate that 
she was not allowed to see her own 
files. “They said that I probably 
wouldn’t be allowed to see all my files 
... the only thing they showed me was 
the final financial aid package sheet. I 
would have like to see how they deter­
mined it.”
Maureen Brady, an English major 
taking seven years to complete her 
degree in an attempt to finance it inde­
pendently, has also been denied access 
to her own files. “My requests to see 
my folder were either ignored or de­
nied — ignored via email, denied in 
person.”
“They wouldn’t be able to see them 
instantly,” said Bill Elliott, vice presi­
dent for enrollment. However, Elliott 
said that students should be allowed 
to see their records in compliance with 
federal law.
Page 39 of the Undergraduate Course
Catalog points out that “Family finan- 
family’s increased income, an cial records and statements of their 
increase that Statile claims was parents, and any information contained
therein” are exceptions to the policy, 
possibly explaining why some students 
are having trouble obtaining access to 
certain financial aid records.
As the fifth child in a family of eight, 
Brady said “I have requested on sev­
eral occasions to be considered an in­
dependent student, which was rejected 
every time. In spring of 1992, I was 
informed that I had to be off my parent’s 
income taxes for two years, which I 
then worked very hard to do.” By tak­
ing time off from school, working part 
time jobs, and joining Americorps, 
Brady made her way through two years 
as an independent. “Late last year I 
went in to ... The HUB to inform them
Theta sets new record in raising money through Mr. Fraternity
By DANIELLE PIERATTI
Tartan Staffwriter
Most people probably wouldn’t consider eating a goldfish a talent. Not 
so, however, for Theta Xi’s Zach Conly, who did exactly that as part of the 
talent competition at this year’s “Mr. Fraternity” pageant held by Kappa 
Alpha Theta Saturday night. It was a good example of the general trend 
of ‘anything goes’ established by the contestants in the amount of 
stripping, parading, and general silliness that was featured at the show.
According to Meredith Knezek, a junior industrial management major
and the activity ser- _____________
'¡ce chair for Kappa Jil
Alpha Theta, this is 
nothing new. “The
students get the most : I
of disgusting and I Jgpr 3
bizarre things,” she I v ' •]
said, adding that the I
end o lool ;
more for genuine tal- I
mt “The guys just gfFuuuuSp 
him it, up. They're 
great.” Laura Mattie, I
a CIT undecided f £ j||f/ " I
freshmen, said, “It [ ! * llllf
was funny. It’s neat to 
see it from the other 
s>de, to see guys up 
there [instead of 
women].”
Mr. Delta Upsilon 
Mike PpseyJ received 
the “Mr. Congenial­
ity” award, Jeffrey 
Clock, of Sigma Phi 
Epsilon, wonfirstrun- 
ner up, and Matthew’
Myers, of Alpha Epsi­
lon Pi, was crowned coldg •sieigpdnLfaonuog Igdud 'psudn
Mr. Fraternity by last The Toga category proved to be one of the most
year’s winner, Jason entertaining parts of the evening.
Caldeira, of Phi
coldg •sieigpdnLfaonuog Irdud 'psudn 
Last year’s Mr. Fraternity, Jason Caldeira, and Theta alumni Brockett Horne, crown 
Mike Posie, Mr. Congeniality.
coldg •AieigpdnLfaouuog Irdud 'psudn 
Phi Kappa Theta contestant Merritt Gayle performs in the talent competition with the 
help of a few fraternity brothers.
Kappa Alpha.
However, aside from the fun and hu­
morous side of the show, Mr. Fraternity 
is Theta’s annual philanthropic event. 
“This is our 10th annual [Mr. Frater­
nity]. It’s hel d to benefit Karin Johnson. 
She was a Carnegie Mellon Theta who 
died her sophomore year here — 1984,” 
said Knezek.
“She died of an acute asthma attack. 
After she died, her parents started a 
fund at the Central Ohio Lung Associa­
tion. The money goes towards research 
and spreading knowledge about the dis­
ease,” she said.
It is this association which is the 
main cause of Kappa Alpha Theta’s 
annual presentation of Mr. Fraternity. 
All the proceeds, usually from $2,000 to 
$2,500, go towards research of Sudden 
Asthma Death Syndrome. “We try to 
promote it as a philanthropy. It’s our 
main concern. And it’s something that’s 
really special for us. Just the fact that 
we get letters and contributions from 
people who knew [Karin Johnson] 
makes it worthwhile,” said Knezek. “It’s 
a good way to be active and be known on 
campus,” she said.
Given the fact that this is the 10th 
anniversary of the show, Knezek hoped 
to set a new record, which they did — 
Thta raised $3100 this year, $100 over 
their original goal. “This year I’m hop­
ing [to raise] over 3,000 dollars,” she 
said. “It’s kind of what we feel we’re 
known for here on campus, and we want 
to make [this year’s] the best,” she said 
before the show. “We’re pretty proud of 
it. I’m excited but I’m so nervous.”
Please see FRATERNITY, page L3

---------------------------------------------------

VT©g/ ©aPMad . 9aPd/Lf/ -/22sd Cdf3/PyfM• . ii zs3/1v/P iSSo
A SUITE FOR LESS 
THAN A HOTEL ROOM
Society imposes unrealistic 
images of femininity, beauty
AT&T CELLULAR SALES
ELEGANTLY FURNISHED ONE OR TWO BEDROOM APARTMENT SUITES 
INCLUDE AN EQUIPPED KITCHEN, FLUFFY LINENS, TV, VCR, CABLE MOVIES, 
FREE LOCAL PHONE SERVICE AND RESERVED PARKING
CONVENIENTLY LOCATED AT 5405 FIFTH AVENUE, SHADYSIDE 2 BLOCKS 
FROM WALNUT STREET'S 145 FASHIONABLE SHOPS AND 12 DELICIOUS 
RESTAURANTS. 1 MILE TO CMU/PITT/HOSPITALS.
DAILY, WEEKLY, MONTHLY LEASES
5405 FIFTHAVENUE 
PITTSBURGH, PA15232
(412) 441-4444
http :// tig. com/Pittsburgh/
THE MYTH
While looking makeup are considered trashy or “trying too 
at the Barnes hard” — women who don’t wear enough, or 
and Nobles never dress “sexy” are masculine, ugly, or 
magazine sec- weird.
tion, I was Makeup is a no-win situation. Besides being 
struck by just expensive for women, makeup, rigorous beauty 
how many routines, and cosmetic surgery hurt.
Eyelash curlers, tweezers, and other tortur-, rr , , . . magazines ex- ---------------------------------------w* —uy blizaoew Irvine *SJ. dedicated to ous, medical looking devices tame one’s face.
Face lifts, face peels and breast implants all 
cause incredible, unnecessary pain, as well. 
But, the amount of pain involved really doesn’t 
matter — women will forgo danger to keep 
satisfying societal demands. Breast implants 
have proven to be a threat to a woman’s health. 
Society says, “I can’t believe women do that to 
themselves, they are foolish and vain,” but 
then dictates again the ideal female form 
through commercials, movies, television, and 
beauty pageants.
Breast implants are one of many ways 
women deal with the expectations of beauty in 
our culture. Too often does a woman’s self 
worth and esteem relate to the way that she 
looks.
helping women 
look pretty. While men have GQ, Details, and 
Esquire, all different publications, women’s 
magazines fill racks and racks all with the 
same homogeneous goal: maximizing beauty 
— a goal which the male counterpart maga­
zines don’t have. I wonder why women need so 
much help looking beautiful and why being 
beautiful is so necessary to being a woman in 
America. As women, we have rights, we can be 
what we want, study what we want, but be­
hind it all, women and men are still preoccu­
pied with the idea of feminine beauty. We may 
feel self-confident in the classroom, but women 
for the most part feel unconfident about their 
bodies, and faces, limiting them in what they
“Besides being expensive for women, 
makeup, rigorous beauty routines, and 
cosmetic surgery ghPMD:
can do. Many women are ashamed to admit 
that trivial concerns such as their bodies, 
faces, hair, and clothes matter so much. When 
it comes down to it, society expects women to 
be beautiful — or at least attempt to be beau­
tiful. Women who do not “make the most” of 
what they “have” are looked down on;.it is 
shameful to not try to be pretty.
Beauty is used 
against women 
and pits women 
against one an­
other.
We are taught to 
^fear and be jeal­
ous of women who 
are beautiful. Competition about beauty taints 
female relationships and causes unnecessary 
tensions male relationships don’t have.
The fear of growing old, the obsession we 
have with weight, all comes down to the fact 
that women are supposed to be beautiful and 
stay beautiful.
The struggle to be pretty usually ends in frus- 
The images of women presented to us from tration, guilt and anxiety. Femininity and fe- 
the media are perfect specimens of feminin- male beauty should encompass intelligence and 
ity. The ideal American beautjr is 25 pounds humor, not perfection in artificial terms. Pain 
thinner than the average American woman: and competition needs to not be a part of female 
she is white, has flawless skin, huge, sym- beauty — femininity should be humanized, 
metrical, and perky breasts, and 
perfect hair — and no body hair to 
speak of. Most women and men 
know the Cindy Crawford, Claudia 
Schiffer measurements: 34-24-34, 
the ideal weight: 125, and ideal 
height: 5’8”. Not only is this ideal 
impossible for most white women, 
but it’s even more removed from 
women of color. To be feminine 
and pretty is not just limited to 
how a woman looks, it is also about 
how a woman acts. Women are 
supposed to embody all qualities of 
feminity, which is impossible. To be 
modest, gentle, delicate, docile and 
good at the same time is to be inhu­
man.
Too often female beauty is linked 
to pain. Women become martyrs 
for their beauty, but society cre­
ates the contradiction of both de­
manding this from us and then 
mocking us as we attempt it.
Women who wear too muchCtsu Fonfaonuog !7lsgill hogoein
Seasonal and Part Time Opportunities Are Ringing
AT&T Wireless Services, the leader in cellular technology, is currently hiring for Part 
Time and Seasonal Retail Sales Associates. There are several kiosk locations 
throughout the Greater Pittsburgh area and suburbs within many Giant 
Eagle's, Hills, Wal-Marts, and Shop 'n Save's.
Responsibilities include:
- Selling cellular service & equipment
- Performing service activations
- Projecting a friendly, positive, & professional image to potential customers
Qualifications:
- Ability to work 11 am-8 pm /Saturday and 12 pm-6 pm/Sunday 
(Seasonal employees must be available between 11/29/96 and 1/4/97)
-Aggressive, sales/results-oriented individuals
- Flexibility to work within multiple retail locations
- Dependable with good job stability
- Minimum high school education/GED required
- Prior sales experience helpful
Interested candidates should call (412) 680-5169. Please leave your name, num­
ber, related work experiences, and preferred location.
Payrate is $6.25/hr plus Commission
AT&T Wireless Services is an Equal Opportunity Employer
Students, administrators discuss 
issues of sexual assault at CMU
coldg •AieigpdnLfaonuog Irdud 'psudn 
Michael Murphy, Paul Fowler and some coolio met with students to 
discuss existing and future sexual assault policies on campus.
By SUSAN WATSON
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
Last Monday, the Women’s Cen­
ter, Campus Police, and Student 
Affairs held a Sexual Assault
in CMU crime reports. It has been 
indicated in previous reports that 
sexual assault is virtually non­
existent on campus. However, 
Michael Murphy, dean of Student
Round-Table, an open forum Affairs, said, “We acknowledge
sexual assault as a serious issue 
and that it is on this campus.” 
“This is an important issue on all 
campuses. At CMU, if we reason­
ably believe a crime was commit-
which took place in the Adamson 
Wing. The Round-Table was a re­
sult of increasing questions that 
were raised by members of the 
Women’s Center. Janel Hamner,
a sophomore _______________
technical 
writing ma­
jor and mem­
ber of the 
Women’s 
Center, said,
“The Round- 
Table came 
about be­
cause the ------------------------------------------------------------------------
Women’s
Center had concerns with some of ted, we report it,” said James 
the university’s policies. We con- LaPaglia, head of Campus Police.
“We acknowledge sexual assault as a 
serious crime and that it is on this 
campus.”
¦ Michael Murphy, 
dean of Student Affairs
tacted Student Affairs, and this is 
what they suggested.”
The session was divided into 
five segments: informing the cam­
pus, defining a campus, inform­
ing victims of their rights, confi­
dentiality, and Student Affairs 
communication with Campus Po­
lice.
Within each portion of the meet­
ing, representatives raised ques­
tions while members of the Round- 
Table and the audience provided 
input to find solutions.
Nevertheless, discrepancies oc­
cur in sexual assault statistical fig­
ures because many of the assaults 
go unreported by victims. “There 
are a number of cases we hear about 
in Student Affairs that don’t get to 
campus police. I would say it’s about 
twenty to twenty-five percent of the 
accounts we hear. Despite this fact, 
we urge every victim to speak with 
campus police,” said Murphy.
Members of the Women’s Center 
were also concerned with the 
campus’s awareness of sexual as-
A major concern of members of sault. 
the Women’s Center was the inac- Esther Park, a sophomore elec-
curacy of sexual assault statistics trical and computer engineering and
social and decision science major 
feels awareness at CMU is ex. 
tremely low. Park, who represents 
the Women’s Center on the Round; 
Table, said, “I tend to think people 
are unaware or they’re apathetic, 
In terms of sexual assault, ifjj 
happens, people dismiss it. I also 
think students are unaware of the 
current policies dealing with sexual 
assault. I know I was until I re. 
searched them for the Round- 
Table.”
Resulting from the Round-Table, 
extensive student handbook distri- 
bution will take place so that 
dents will have access to facilities 
and know people to contact if they 
are sexually assaulted.
Another concern raised by the 
Women’s Center was the processby 
which victims are informed of their 
rights in terms of the judicial pro- 
ceedings at CMU. Dean Murphy 
said, “The issue of people under­
standing their options is really im- 
portant. I admit that I had a some­
what naive view, thinking it was a 
simple process. When you actually 
go through it, it’s extremely com­
plex.”
One of the goals of the panel is to 
create a more precise understand- 
ingofthejudicial process. To achieve 
this, the Round-Table decided that 
an outline of the process will be
______________ devised so that
victims are not 
completely over-; 
whelmed by the 
system.
Students in 
the audience 
raised questions 
in terms of the ; 
school’s confi-
---------------------- dentiality poli-
^1 ties.
Dean Murphy said, “Anytime a 
student comes forward to us, m 
they impose suicidal or homicidal 
tendencies, what they say remains 
confidential.”
Despite the concerns students 
presented to the administrators on 
the panel, many believe the current 
policies and actions taken by the 
school when dealing with sexual 
assault are beneficial for the ca 
pus community.
Tm glad there is a process 
CMU,” said Hamner. Tm happy 
with the way it’s set up.
There are just a few things in the 
process that need tinkering. In or­
der to make it the most successful 
canbe, some things need to change.’

---------------------------------------------------

©g/ ©aPMad . 9aPd/Lf/ -/22sd Cdf3/PyfM• . ii zs3/1v/P iSSoVK
Student group plans for senior events
By AMIT KAR
Tartan Business Manager
Four years of college seem to fly by so much faster than any 
previous four years. Most of next May’s graduates will be able to 
describe their freshman orientation as if it was just last week. It 
could be for that reason that a small group of students have already 
started thinking about events in the spring for graduating seniors 
and ways to get the Class of ‘97 to donate towards the class gift.
The efforts of the group fall under the auspices of the Tartan 
Appreciation Program (TAP). The program allows a senior to 
make their donation in honor of another person who has been 
especially close or influential during their time at CMU. “[TAP] 
allows a graduating senior to thank a professor or classmate by 
way of making a donation to the senior class ... and that donation 
goes towards the senior gift,” said David Lenchus, a senior compo­
sition major who is heading up the program this year.
The focus of TAP’s efforts will be a 97-day countdown to gradu­
ation during which time the group will try to convince seniors to 
make their donations while conducting various fund-raising events. 
Vittorio Bernadino, senior economics major and chair of TAP’s 
marketing committee, said, “We’re going to focus on a strategy — 
this is the primary question: How can we convince a somewhat 
apathetic senior class to give money back to their Alma Mater?”
Historically, the level of participation in the senior gift projects 
has been low — fewer than 25% of last year’s graduates contrib­
uted towards the Class of‘96 gift, according to Bernadino. “We’re 
the last of the old dogs — getting a CIT person to talk to a CFA 
person, thats still a big thing to us. We need to build class spirit.”
Lenchus and Bernadino are joined by Jason Andracki, senior 
professional writing major, and Christa Bower, senior Industrial 
Management major, who are the chairs of the communications and 
recruitment committees respectively. Currently, membership of 
the various TAP committees totals fifteen but the chairpersons are
hoping that number will increase once the recruitment drive gets 
under way in earnest. “We’re trying to increase [membership] to 
97 — that is sort of the ideal goal,” said Bernadino.
One of the group’s main concerns is determining the nature of 
the senior gift. In the past senior gift money has gone towards 
general or specific scholarship funds, undergraduate enhance­
ment funds, and physical gifts.
“We really want student input so that their money goes where 
they want it to go”, said Lenchus. He went on to add that the 
historically low level of giving makes it all the more vital that 
seniors make their desires known.
“How much do we really want to bum everyone up for money ? 
This is something that we really want to get more input on... it will 
be up to those who come and voice their opinions,” he said.
The other primary goal of TAP is to organize a fun and memo­
rable last semester for Carnegie Mellon’s 100th graduating class.
“We have very tentative ideas ... by December we’re going to be 
tightening up the nuts and bolts so that we’re ready for people 
coming back in January,” said Lenchus. At the present time no 
ideas have been set in stone — the member of TAP have met only 
twice so far this semester and those meetings focused on develop­
ing the structure of the organizations. “Most of the major 
decisions will be made by mid to late November,” said Bernadino.
Although no ideas have been set in stone, it is the clear 
intention of the TAP members to bring the senior class to­
gether in a semester long celebration of four years of hard 
work and good times. “Pretty much every day we’re going to do 
stuff for seniors,” said Bernadino, adding, “Stay tuned — 
there’s going to be shit happening.”
The next meeting is slated for Thursday, Nov. 21st at 
4:30 in the Alumni House and is open to all interested 
seniors who make their interest known to one of the chair­
persons in advance.
Mr. Fraternity raises 
money for charity
Financial aid decreases for upperclassmen
FINANCIAL AID, from page LI
financial aid package. “She ba­
sically left me with the impres­
sion that she couldn’t care less 
about my financial situation,” 
he said. Anderson could not be
Figgiur Fnoitinfaonuog Editor-In-Chief
reached for comment.
To pay his bill in the spring 
semester, Blanco put the bal­
ance on his Visa card which he 
I off partly in minimal in­
stallments and through money
he earned the following sum­
mer. He has stayed at CMU over 
the years because transfer be­
came impossible. When he 
wanted to transfer during the 
summer between his sophomore 
and junior year, he could 
not obtain his transcript 
from the registrar’s office 
because he owed the 
school money. His options 
came down to trying to 
stay at CMU or drop out 
of college all together.
The deal he has been 
working out since fresh­
man year is conditional 
enrollment — he can reg­
ister for classes for the 
semester, but is not sure 
if he will be allowed to do 
so again the following se­
mester.
Semester after semes­
ter, he has not been able 
to register for classes be­
cause he owes the school 
money, money that he 
pays off through his work 
study job over the follow­
ing semester.
However, he cannot get the job 
until he is enrolled. He cannot 
enroll without the money he will 
get from the job.
On conditional enrollment for 
over four semesters, Blanco said
“you’ve got to learn to play the 
game. Buy as much time as you 
can.... Trying to get a straight 
answer from this school is damn 
near impossible. I’ve learned that 
if you ask questions things get 
worse.”
HUB. There is the frustration of 
attempting to call The HUB.
“I’ve actually called different de­
partments in Warner, put the 
phone down, gone to make lunch, 
come back and the phone’s still 
ringing. Sometimes I think it’s a
coldg •AieigpdnLfaonuog Photo Staff hogoein 
Alpha Epsilon Pi brother, Matthew Myers won the titie of Mr. Fraternity 
at last Saturday’s competition.
FRATERNITY, from page LI
Jeff Klock, a senior at CIT and Mr. Sigma Phi Epsilon, was also 
nervous prior to the event. “I’m nervous about the talent I’m going to 
be doing. I’ve never sang in front of an audience. But I think it will be 
fun,” he said. When asked how he wais selected to represent his 
fraternity, he said, “General brother consensus. A bunch of brothers 
asked me to — I accepted. They thought I fit the bill.”
Jeff was among the twelve fraternity brothers who stood before a 
mercilessly vocal audience on Saturday night to show their qualities 
in categories: swimwear, toga, talent, formalwear, and question and 
answer. Each category was judged by faculty members based on 
various regulations, none of which, however, seemed to keep even the 
most outrageous exhibitions from the stage. Pi Kappa Alpha contes­
tant and junior design major Jay Miolla opted to parade in a toga made 
of saran wrap for the Toga competition. For the talent competition he 
made a short recording of himself on drums, and guitar, and vocal lead 
while on stage.
There were numerous men dressed up as women, striptease skits, 
and improvised and original songs, as well as a variety of answers for 
the question and answer section of the show, such as the declaration 
of Mr. Alpha Epsilon Pi, Matthew Myers, that, if his fraternity house 
were on fire he would “save the beer.”
All of this was followed by the casting of the audience’s votes, a brief 
musical interlude, and a final announcement of the winners.
According to Elliott, students false number,” Blanco said.
may not remain on conditional 
enrollment for more than one se­
mester. “You can’t go on owing the 
school money,” he said.
Yet Blanco is still here. Each 
semester he finds a way to get 
through the system and gain con­
ditional enrollment, usually be­
cause a sympathetic administra­
tor looks the other way. However, 
ramifications persist for him.
There is the problem with check­
ing out books in the library or 
buying books in the bookstore be­
cause an ID doesn’t work. There 
are the hours spent in line at The
“This is not necessarily as easy 
as it may appear,” Matsko said of 
working with financial aid.
The paper work and bureau­
cracy that go along with financial 
aid are massive.
Elliott said that The HUB is 
trying to get more information 
up on the Web so that routine 
matters can be handled with­
out students even going to The 
HUB. The HUB would then be 
more accessible to students 
with complicated problems. 
Students like Blanco are look­
ing forward to the change.
Immigration Services
All Nonimmigrant Visas • Permanent Residency • Citizenship
Are you an Outstanding Researcher or 
Professor? Does your work serve a National Interest? Call our firm for more 
information on liow scientists and 
engineers can obtain permanent residency 
without labor certification.
Ventresca & Ventresca
Attorneys at Law 
555 Grant Street • Suite 373 
Pittsburgh • PA • 15219 
Phone: Toi ? 5366
wsib d7n rdti yoei ou 
ruuy4ffsrDS$dtfDigun$l$o
NMebMarketSysie^
The NEW-aitemativeitp cmii.mlscmarket 
Register and Wirr nn//FW / .! \J‘-J
¡our j
http://chayote.hss.cmu.edu/wms/
Campus Mass 
Schedule
Sundays: (in the old wing behind Posner Hall)
10:30 
8:00
AM Posner Hall (GSIA), 
Mellon Auditorium
PM Posner Hall (GSIA),
Mellon Auditorium
Stuöenc Choir &
Weekdays Mon-Fri:
12:30PM University Center Chapel
Ryan Catholic Newman Center
4450 Bayard Street 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
681-3181
Staff
........
.** CaU 6ÔI-51SI *?. 
VtotaktouO v" .....................’
Fr. Bryan Summers, C.O., Director 
Fr. Drew Morgan, C.O.
Fr. David Abernethy, C.O.
Fr. Joseph Linck, C.O.
Sr. Bernadette Young, C.D.P.
Working with the Best
The pace is fast. We're gutsy, stable and growing. Opportunities abound. We don't let success go to our heads. And 
hard work is handsomely rewarded. That's Cypress.
CYPRESS WILL 
BE ON CAMPUS!
INFO SESSION:
Tuesday, Nov. 19th, 1996 
Old Navy Building, Room 200 
7:00 - 9:00 p.m.
ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS:
Wednesday, Nov. 20, 1996 
(I schedule)
FOR INTERVIEW CONSIDERATION, 
PLEASE SIGN UP AT THE CAREER 
PUNNING AND PLACEMENT OFFICE
We are currently seeking candidates for the following 
positions:
1CyyAs$ousdgl 'gesgiin 
1Indp7$u honkiusge 
'gesgiin
Opportunities exist in locations including California, 
Texas, Minnesota, Mississippi, Colorado, and Washington.
If you cannot make our campus visit, send us your 
resume by fax to (408) 943-6859. On-line via 
http://www.careermosaic.com/cm/cypress. Or mail to: 
Cypress, Human Resources Dept., 3901 N. First Street, 
San Jose, CA 95134. EOE.
"Birds, Basilisks & Other Medieval Beasts" 
Ex Umbris 
explores the fascinating world of 
Medieval bestiaries with instruments and song 
Saturday, November 16 
8:00 p.m. Synod Hall, Oakland 
(N. Craig St. & Fifth Ave.)
Student tickets $7 
(412) 682-7262 or pmcqueen@telerama.lm.com
gjjj Presented by the Renaissance & 
“ Baroque Society of Pittsburgh
Tickets $7-28 at Pitt Student Union, CMU University Center 
or (412) 682-7262. MC 8c Visa accepted.

---------------------------------------------------

HYVweA© ® by Scott Adams
YOU HAVE TO KOVE 
SLOWLY CJITH THESE 
ONLINE RELATIONSHIPS. 
I'LL ASK HER UHAT 
SHE LIKES TO DO FOR 
FUN.
r /IE?
«
YOU'D THINK, THAT A 
WOMAN NAMED 
MADAME CRUELLA 
WOULD COMPENSATE 
BY BEING EXTRA 
NICE.
MOOOÜ.1 
DON'T 
WENf> UP 
WITH fAE.!
M /
THE DOGBERT CONSULTING 
COMPANY WILL ADD 
CREDIBILITY TO YOUR 
OWN SELFISH AND IDIOTIC 
OPINIONS.
FOR EXAMPLE, YOUR 
CURRENT BUDGET SHOULD 
BE ... UM...
HEY, WHAT'S THAT 
TINGLE I FEEL 
ALL OVER MY 
BODY?!!
CREDIBILITY. 
IF YOU WANT 
ANOTHER HIT, 
IT'LL COST YOU.
HI STARTED DATING 
OTHER MEN. TMO CAN 
PLAY AT THAT GAME.
r I WILL USE THE POWER 
OF THE INTERNET TO 
.FINO A HOT BABE.
SHE
WANTS
YOUR
CREDIT
CARD
NUMBER.
OOH! SHE'S 
INQUISITIVE. 
I LIKE THAT.
I HIRED 
CONSULT 
TO ADO 
TO fAY
J
To
THE DOGBERT 
ING COMPANY 
CREDIBILITY 
DECISIONS.
h . : in ....
AS MY ANALYSI5 SHOWS, 
IT'S MUCH BETTER TO GIVE 
YOUR MONEY TO ME THAN 
TO WASTE IT ON FUTURE 
DOWNSIZEES SUCH A5 
YOURSELVES.
WHAT ANALYSIS? THIS IS 
A PAGE RIPPED OUT OF 
THE MAGAT.INE IN OUR
PERHAPS YOU 
SHOULD UPGRADE 
TO MY DELUXE 
SERVICE.
\J
MEN WHO UNDERSTAND
TECHNOLOGY ARE THE NEW
SEX SYMBOLS. YOUR
ONLINE PERSONALS AO
SHOULD EMPHASIZE
YOUR TECH- ) T
NICAL
PROWESS.
HOW ABOUT "LOOKING 
FOR WOMAN WHO LIKES 
MOONLIT WALKS SO 
I'LL HAVE MORE TIME 
ALONE WITH MY 
COMPUTER"?
OVER THE HEDGE q v• -fuga/2 rP• adU © V/Wfy
AND "MUST LIKE TO 
DANCE." THAT'S SO I 
WON'T GET A FLABBY, 
UNCOORDINATED 
APPLICANT.
| DON'T CALL THEN 
"APPLICANTS" ON 
THE FIRST DATE, k
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF 
LOCKING, THE TRASH T 
KEEP OUT PESTS 
SAV ‘"/Eft".

---------------------------------------------------

vmy.
%nm
TUE TRKGEDY of 
N\KLE PKTTEBM DENIM
-YET ANoTUER 
&REKT MoMENT 
)N
TECU OJPPoRT
TUERE...No oNE WILL NOTICE !
vmyOK, TURN IT OVER.
DADDY'S &ONNX LI&UT UP ?NOTUEC ONE...
THE WoNAE 
(WER610N TWERKP'Y KIT
oK...WUo'6
EXPENDABLE
ENoU&U 
To BECoWE 
oUR NEXT 
LENDER?THE otl&IN OF 0U6 
TODtTloN oF ELECTING 
LE« TVWI oUB 
BEST AND BBIGUTKT 
To PUBLIC OFFICE
BU£INE64 DISTRICT GANG WEM?
ED FINALLY FINDé TUE POLITICAL PARTY HE CAN IDENTIFY WITH
SyybasTWE CONTRACT 
NEGOTIATION DW4CE
SINCERITY IN TUE NINETIES
\VI1=X
UoW To TELL
you’re in T 
rough 
NEl&UBoRWooD
TUE NEW MR QUALITY BMTLE GROUND
LoCAJu18065648
BECAUSE -me MEAT 14 G.R1LLED, TUE DoU&M IS BAKED FTJESU, AND UE ONLY RECOMMENDS INVESTMENTS IN LONG-TERM SECURITIES
YOUR 
fOToVM. 
RATIN& 14 
PLUMMETING
viisyvn=y
YESTERDAY1WAS WRITINS A 
TOST-IT NOTE AND I FELT A 
STRAN6E POWER COME OVER 
tAE AND THEN- THEN I CUT 
(«SELF ON WE NOTEPAPER-
A PAPER CVJT IN THE. \ HEY, WHERE TO 
FCRIAOF A PENTAGRAM-1 YOU «MS KEEP 
—¦—-«- «¡¿fe-'VWE- BU<& SPRAY?
Ml .THIS Y COULD YOU 
IS KT&T \ HOLD A MINUTE? 
LONG BESOT CALL
slvdrtBn k^wAmus. vAUDWE —Ij--HAVE A-y JLn
HEUD.THIS WEAHY AND 1 W^YOU 
IS AT&T. / NIC I. -I SPRINT.) WRTY .
ePlFI
¿f RATES??Y T'M60NNir^ 
1 >' YOU CALI 1 DISCOUNT YOUR 
7 THOSE JWb FKMHEPB 
' VrATESVTnTO TIMBUKTU.'
eNsAsCb L DA,sbe p Lge3LRRTIeNLe 
SFi-m AN WERACTWE \C0ULD EXPLAIN 
IMAGINATION WHO 1 MOT... ,THINKS MY BROTHER ___
IS UNDER WE ;
INFLUENCE OF \ '<fW i
¦ SATANICFORCES.) | ¿J
W.THIS \0K HOLDON.I'W 
\SSFRlKT\SVinCH\N&TO 
LONS CONFERENCE 
DISTANCE fC CALL... y 
WITH A L T^zny— 
SPECIAL-/? ^TT Yj>
H1.TV»S\ JUSTA 
IStAClJ SECOND- 
AND il»SETTING 
WE...)V ANOTHER
EyYf pgLRRrrr I
-737yom3Ldpi
X SUESS, SOME PEOPLE JUST HAVE A 
WARD TIME KNOWING WHEN THEY'VE. 
OVERSTAYED THEIR WELCOME-
IT HAS. 8EEM tt»TreN."7HEREwin rise Kfcm S toemucMAH Fof&BP txl THE ANVIL OF
we est&T.wHi ue esday
SISAT CALAMITY ANPWOS "...
IS THAT FBWlX UmiS.lS “WE BXoRClST 
THE- BOOK OP m • SATAN &X£ 70 AWRS. 
. REVElATioW ?XTt__
BE-HViE CAST THEE out 
<50NE,\ in -WE NAttE OF , 
PEM0N7AI.LWAT.IS HOLY •
QUA PLEASE ,UEAB tAE OUT, YW BOTEP 
VOI/ L IS POSSESSED gy A «£AT £V IL.. 
N6WN>----- -----
DEWWl!
"STEP 2 -BEXNOW T KNOW WHY LINDA 
PREPARED 1 BLAIR WAS V0NMT1NS AND 
FOR VIOLENT ROTATING HER HEAD 360° 
REACTIONS ^FROM / ^ 0»
tl-nmyY h pL u
.ENTITY.'7 -*
WE'RE; \ AND LC0K...U1S BéPLEcTlON 
IN THE I APPEARS NOT ItJ THE. 
FRHEAl MIRRORS ABOVE PR0WC6: 
POOP —1,------------ 
SECTION.) fit3?/ '
UW..AI AIA HER6T0 WAPNYOU 
HI. ; ABOUT TOE ONE YOU CAU, 
s y &RCWEE. THERE IS >«^/ 
\n AN EVIL WITH HIM 4<]S
4 \ SREATER TUAm Vi 4' V YOU KNOW- C \
TO YOU NOT SENSE 
THE UNEARTHLY 
CHILL 7..1HE COLD, 
DANK WISTOF THE 
.NETHERWORLD?..
"9EVIL60'
HMA"?
1TUINK 
THKPS IN
fNs mlö 
I cyOUlrrr H

---------------------------------------------------

* 11 is said that King Laomedon, the father of Priam, tricked Poseidon 
(and Apollo) into building the city wall of Ilios.
Oh, are you 
still grumpy 
\ about < 
>ALaomedon
I '11 be on 
the Trojan 
side. I still 
love that 
[ Priestess 
\Cassandra.
Don't 
worry. 
I'm not 
even 
counting 
on you..
Ì rll\ >supporrs
the
Achaeans
I can \ 
switch to ^ the Trojan 
j. side, you 
/ know,
Ares won't be /¿p-;' 
on our side. /VM
' He's hopelessly^L^^ 
i in love with L Aphixidite^JmTm^
’ ( Hey, hey...
Jk Can't you 
'see? I'm still 
very much in 
love with you!
You haven't 
changed 
much. Have you, 
Hermes?\ Like father, 
\ like son...
I'll be on the
Achaean side.I don't 
trust you 
anymore.
You're 
forgetting 
the fact...
y ...that 
you're 
the sacred 
Patron of 
\ Liars.
OK, then. 
But just tell 
me what's 
on your
Yet you can't V- 
tell me what .¿3| 
, it is? Hmm? H
¡S The
Troj ans vi 
already P 
have the God­
dess of Love 
and Beauty. 
Why would 
they need me?.
I know t 
you're upl 
to some- 
i thing.
/ Between 
you and 
me? C'mon, 
Sweetheart. 
. Tell me.
I sn't it 
so, 
Madam?
ILI OS Homepage: http://www.contrib.andrew.cmu.edu/usr/ah3q/title.html
Sy last week's 
Comic Fi\ep'S 
DOG- K1CKE.I7 A 
SMALL CAT.
The cat was 
Fine, eut thH-N 
TRE V KlCKE-P 
IT ANp X.T 
01HP1.
TU ST TO SHOW 
THERE IS No ILL 
WIi-L lovWP 
CATS, THIS IS A 
SPECIAL COMic 
MAPE TuST FOR. 
CAts. You won't 
UW0EP,4TANt7 IT 
BECAUSE XT'S ItJ 
CAT LAN&UAGE 
SUT YouR CAT 
SHoULP EM Toy IT.
so S.PKÎAP Div
ereso n.D i Ki 
FRuNT OF HIM 
ANP LET H 1M 
REAP IT FOR ONCE 
RATHER THAN 'SUST 
IAA1C.E S11-L.Y- 
PUTTX IMfKESMoNS 
ON IT.
cmm*
^WEU^HKC UE ARE ON "-me lyElyldn CmryndTV'M rug HEART of THE toltYHoAhb e­Umnb,'OOH^ WHÖ TWE- ,
Mnmm lv "jouMHy mfTOTÇ"?/
KÌ0OT óy\ ' 
A&YvST?
©im xlBaimrvRY­oPOdLb
/ neo^ Nni2 
tfEow «Eow tniH
ttEoW -sVK MtlVl
-sVK WsVK way
H»ss,neoV-
MfiCiW.M Saw.
MEOW.MEOW.
L1n2 yi>u 7n4D c7mvLD ThE 
£VlL JoHNMy IMFIWITE/
©WfyM/U n/M/Pby David Wingrove

---------------------------------------------------

DIVERSIONS
Volume 91, Issue 10The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania11 November 1996
A cappela music at CMU
JZ i m ~'P |Va{
J. a .......ar^........ÿ...
Local a cappela group 
creates original sound
By TRACY ODELL
Tartan Staffwriter
At first thought, a capella mu­
sic seems like a bit of a lost art. 
After all, it would be a long and 
futile search for a barbershop 
quartet performing on a street 
comer anywhere today. Contem­
porary acapella groups are not 
performing on street comers, they 
are part of the mainstream music 
scene. Just turning on the tele­
vision, one can see groups 
like Rockapella perform­
ing their catchy version 
of Where in the World is 
Carmen Sandiego? or Boyz 
II Men belting out an a 
capella version of the na­
tional anthem before a 
major sporting event.
While professional a capella 
groups are just becoming popu­
lar, college acapella groups are 
and have been thriving for a long 
time, according to Jared 
Moskowitz, a sophomore music 
composition major and president 
of CMU’s first and only male 
acapella group, The Originals.
It is hard to imagine that a 
college with a world-renowned 
music department such as CMU 
did not have a student a capella 
group before last year. When 
Moskowitz visited CMU for a 
sleeping bag weekend, he stayed 
with Ken Flagg, now a junior 
music composition major, with 
whom he shared an interest in 
acapella music. When 
Moskowitz returned to CMU 
last fall as a student, he and 
Flagg began to organize The 
Originals. They attracted 
potential members with 
posters around campus 
and then held auditions. Most 
of the members had experience 
singing in an a capella group be­
fore and all shared a love for the 
music. The group eventually came 
together and began to practice 
last spring.
The name “The Originals” has 
many layers of meaning. Flagg 
and Moskowitz were stuck for a 
name and decided to take a break 
and get some fries. The name 
originated not as a reflection of
the group’s musicality or charac­
ter of its members, but as a trib­
ute to their favorite local hot dog 
joint — The 0.
The group achieves the close 
harmonies and smooth sounds 
for which acapella music is best 
known. According to Flagg, an all 
male group allows a blending of 
the voices that coed groups can 
not achieve, yet they still have 
almost as wide a vocal range as 
their coed counterparts. The 
group supplements their har­
monies with finger snapping, 
chest slapping, and com­
mentary to keep the music 
interesting and fun.
The Originals perform di­
verse styles and types of mu­
sic from the older barbershop 
style of song to more contempo­
rary pieces. The group’s current 
repertoire contains familiar times 
such as Brown-Eyed Girl and The 
Lion Sleeps Tonight. Living up to 
their namesake, they sing many 
original arrangements of the fa­
miliar songs and even some of 
their own compositions.
Since the conception of The 
Originals, other acapella groups 
have developed on campus. Flagg 
says part of acapella’s appeal is 
that one “can take it anywhere” 
because “your instrument is your 
voice.”
The members also agreed that 
the nature of the music and the 
membership in a group 
have the ability to cre­
ate an intimate rela­
tionship its members, 
similar to that found in social 
organizations such as 
fraternities.The group currently 
practices three times a week in 
anticpiation of their future con­
certs. Eventually they would like 
to be hired out for social events.
The Originals have two con­
certs this week. On Thursday 
evening at 8:30 they will per­
form with two acapella groups 
from the University of Pitts­
burgh at the Beehive in Oak­
land. Friday evening they are 
performing a free Thanksgiving 
concert at 6:30 in the Alumni 
Concert Hall in CFA.
•stdgo 2df aonuog Cnu 9d1'psudn
Vocalists showcase talents of non-majors
aonog Psi Irdud
The Originals provide a capela entertainment during the 1996 Spring Carnival.
Bt LORI K. HERMANN
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Looking for a new sound? Something 
a bit unusual? How about music with­
out instruments? Look no further. 
The melody, the harmony, the per­
cussion all resounding from the com­
bined voices of nine CMU students 
create such an original sound in The 
Sound Bytes.
The Sound Bytes were formed this 
fall by Chris Adiletta, a freshman 
H&SS student. His motivation for 
starting the group was simply that 
he loves singing. As fellow member 
Laurel Margulis, a freshman major­
ing in computer science said, “Getting 
into a group isn’t as easy as some might 
think....If [you’re] not a music major, 
it’s difficult to get into the music de- 
partment-sponsored choirs.” This along 
with being a freshman, Adiletta was 
worried that he might not have enough
experience to get into The Originals, 
which was the only a cappella campus 
at the time. Adiletta formed The Sound 
Bytes with the support of Barbara King, 
a freshman computer science major. “It 
was mostly his [Adiletta’s] idea and I 
backed him up,” said King.Adiletta, 
didn’t settle for merely copying some­
thing that had already been done. 
He didn’t want to be the other a 
| cappella choir. He gave The Sound 
Bytes a twist by having his creation 
combine the talents of both men and 
women. “The only [other] group was 
| all male, so we put up posters,” said 
King. Posters advertised the band 
and auditions were held to evalutate 
vocal talent and enthusiasm. Margulis 
thinks thatboth male and female voices 
in the group, gives them, “a different 
type of well-blended sound quality.” 
Eight members of The Sound Bytes 
are freshman; one is a sophomore. The 
band originally planned on being all
freshman. “Next semester we will 
open it up to upperclassmen to 
get a variety of people.” The 
Sound Bytes practice sev­
eral times a week for sev­
eral hours. “It’s hard to get 
nine people to practice to­
gether because it’s hard to 
match up free time,” said i 
King. King and Margulis assume the 
role of music Directors. They lead the 
practices by unifying the nine voices 
through a variety of parts. Although the 
group has not had a chance to perform 
to date, that will soon be rectified. This 
Friday, November 15, you can hear their 
rendition of popular hits, such as “Time 
After Time” by Cindi Lauper, when The 
Sound Bytes open for The Originals. 
The group plans to have numerous un­
official concerts throughout the year. 
Once they have a repertoire prepared, 
the group plans on showing up on the 
cut spontaneously to start singing.

---------------------------------------------------

Pcfltnrmfl tíye Carnegie Mellon 
Chamber cijonis
Friday, December tlje 6tl? and 
Saturday, December tlje ytlj
Reception 6:00-7:00 pm 
McKenna Peter Wrigfit Room 
University Center
Dinner 7:00 pm 
Rangos Hall 
Unwersity Center
Tickets
S10.00 Carnegie Mellon Students
$10.00-All Olljt'r Guests
$8.00 cljilòren under 10 years.SpecialMenu
¦ Tickets on sale Monday, Nozwnlcr ntl; through Wednesday, 
Dece\nl)e.r Ath, at tin' Unhvrsity Center Information Desk 
Monday tymujh Friday 9:00 am to 5-00 /////
• Guests wishing to feast at tfx same table simid purchase 
t/jeir tickets together
• Sjmsored ly office of Student Activities and AcLh’ities Board
For more information, contact 
Student Activities 168-8704
Madrigal Bill of Fate
Fresfj Seasonal Vegetable Crudite
Mixed Salad Greens
Roast Prime Rib of Beef' 
iviw Yorkshire Pudding¦Ve.fi•lui Liu ar.tilMc
Braised Red Cabbage 
Glazed Sum Pouitoes 
Hearty Breads 
Wassaife
Ajipfe & Cranberry Crejtes 
iritff Sauce Anglaisc
Ye Guests are ini’iiey to mar traditional clotpe
You would like 
to create
iiaeintosh. More versatile than ever.
We don't know what you're thinking. That’s why we make Macintosh 
computers so versatile. With word processing, to help you express 
yourself. With cutting-edge multimedia, to help you create. And easy 
Internet access, to help you explore. So how do you get started? Just 
visit your campus computer store today and pick up a Mac.
Leave your mark.
CMU College Bowl 
PROUDLY PRESENTS 
ONE WEEKEND ONLY 
21-24 NOVEMBER
The Carnegie Mellon Open
INTRAMURAL COLLEGE 
BOWL TOURNAMENT
An Intellectual
BATTLE ROYALE!
Up to 32 Teams, No
TAG TEAM
fights, just buzzers and your wits in a mental
GRUDGE MATCH!
A double-elimination
FIGHT TO THE DEATH!
Bring your closest friends
$2/PERSON ENTRANCE FEE
(Minimum $8/team; register at the Information Desk in the UC) 
Trivia
WARFARE!
BE THERE!
01996 Apple Computer. Inc. All riglils resenrd. Apple, tlie Apple logo. A Ine nini Macintosh are reghtered trademarks oj Apple Computer. Inc. All Macintosh computers are designed 10 ssible 10 indivìdua/s with disnbìlily. To tenni more (U.S. unly). cali 800-600-7808 or 77Y 800-755-0601.
First Annual 
Thomas M. Kerr 
Undergraduate 
Mock Trial 
Tournament
Saturday, November 16,1996
UNDERGRADUATE 
MOCK TRIAL TEAM
The Case: State of Midlands v. Corky Robson
(a criminal trial involving Police use of force and community relations)
Schedule:
Round 1, 9:00 - 11:30 a.m.
Trial # Team pairings
1 CMU Team #1 vs. University of Pittsburgh
2 Chatham College vs. Indiana University of Pa.
3 CMU Team #2 vs. Allegheny College
Round 2,1:30 - 4:00 p.m.
Trial # Team pairings
4 CMU Team #2 vs. Indiana University of Pa.
5 Allegheny College vs. University of Pittsburgh
6 CMU Team #1 vs. Chatham College
Room
Dowd Room, Univ. Ctr.
Class of 1987 Room, Univ. Ctr. 
Adamson Wing, Baker Hall 136A
Room
Dowd Room, Univ. Ctr.
Class of 1987 Room, Univ. Ctr. 
Adamson Wing, Baker Hall 136A
Spectators welcome. Interested in future mock trial involvement this 
year? Contact: jd0x@andrew.cmu.edu, or tango@andrew.cmu.edu.
Sponsored by the CMU Prelaw Student Society 
and 
University Prelaw Advising Program
Tournament named for Thomas M. Kerr, distinguished (Emeritus) Carnegie Mellon Professor of Industrial 
Administration and Law, equally distinguished Pittsburgh attorney, and for many years Carnegie Mellon 
University Prelaw Advisor.

---------------------------------------------------

©g/ ©aPMad . 9aPd/Lf/ -/22sd Cdf3/PyfM• . ii zs3/1v/P iSSo
gyALEXLEWIN
Tartan Staffwriter
On my way out of the Harris Theater, I 
was chatting with a few people about the 
film we had just seen, Chung King Ex-
P1this year’s Three Rivers Film Festival. 
The common reaction was, “I didn’t get it. 
But I really liked it.”
Film festival flick confuses critic
seems, that they will always remember 
each other. Perhaps it’s difficult for an 
American audience to swallow, for if they 
were both drunk, and if they didn’t have 
sex, and if they didn’t exchange any deep, 
meaningful conversation, how are we to 
ress from Honk Kong, in town as part of believe that they will remember each
in a state that is, shall we say, less than 
stable. But this seems to be more of a 
comic device than anything else. As a 
result, perhaps, an audience will be un­
sure what to make of it. 663 and Faye 
eventually fall in love, after he finds out 
the truth about what’s been going on in 
his apartment. It is a story that is charm­
ing and engrossing without being gushy.
I don’t feel like I fully got Chung King
What: Chung King Express 
Director:Wong Kar-Wai 
Comapny: Miramax
Indeed, Chung King Express is not the 
land of film that one easily “gets,” but 
there is no disputing its entertainment 
value. The film was directed by Kar-wai 
Wong, who seems to be a combination of 
Robert Altman and Jean-Luc Godard. 
Imagine those two collaborating on a film: 
The product would be completely baf­
fling, but loads of fun.
Chung King Express combines two sto­
ries. The first follows the lovesick He 
Qiwu (Takeshi Kaneshiro), a police of­
ficer who can’t get over being dumped by 
his girlfriend and is trying half-heartedly 
to find a new love. He meets a woman 
(Brigitte Lin Ching-hsia) whose name we 
never learn. She is involved in a drug 
smuggling operation, but Qiwu never 
learns of this. Their encounter is brief, 
non-sexual, and only vaguely romantic. 
Qiwu picks her up in a bar, where she gets 
so drunk that when he takes her to a 
hotel, she falls asleep immediately and 
doesn’t wake up until the next day, when 
Qiwu is gone. We are meant to think, it
other?
It is here that the story stops, and the 
film shifts into its second story. This might 
have thrown the audi­
ence off a bit; in an 
American film, their 
love story would have 
taken up the entire pic­
ture and there would 
have been a great 
struggle to get the 
nameless woman out 
of the drug smuggling 
business so that she 
and the cop could live 
happily ever after. Ei­
ther that or she’d be 
killed.
But Kar-Wai Wongdrops the story right Faye Wang charms the audience’s in Chung King Express.
there, and leaves it seemingly incomplete Express, either. In addition to the bizarre
3Tvv8 hsnoto* ,sAAtl
for us to digest. He takes us into the 
second story literally before we realize 
what’s going on. This one is about a name­
less policeman, #663 (Tony Leung Chiu 
Wai), who has also been recently dumped. 
A woman, Faye (the magnificent Faye 
Wang), who works at the fast food place 
he frequents, gets a hold of the keys to 
663’s apartment, and repeatedly goes in 
there to redecorate. 663 notices the 
changes, but somehow thinks the things 
he owns are alive and change themselves 
in his absence. I’m not kidding about 
that—663’s recent dumpage has put him
storylines, there are steadicam shots which 
are nauseatingly erratic and cuts which 
seem unmotivated and unnecessary. But 
perhaps we make allowances for a foreign 
film. Perhaps we assume they do things 
differently over there, so to speak, and 
therefore we should not fault a foreign film 
for coming off as esoteric to us. Maybe it all 
depends on one’s personal tastes. All I 
know is, I had a great time.
The Three Rivers Film Festival is run­
ning through Noveember 14. Call 681- 
5449 for ticket information.Journal inspires reader’s emotions
By ANDRE M. ARCHIE
Special to the Tartan
If it were possible to paint with 
words, Annie Ernaux’s latest book, 
Exteriors, would be an attempt to can­
vas the shades of experience.
What: Exteriors 
Author: Annie Emaux 
Publisher: Seven Stories 
Press
in lucid hindsight by those who, due to 
the experience of being uprooted, are 
forced to seek solace in themselves.
It is nearly obsessive, but fitting, 
the way Ernaux is able to describe a 
simple conversation, or a scene in pass­
ing, only to make it hold some human 
truth that otherwise would have been 
overlooked by hundreds of on-lookers. 
Perhaps this ability to describe is what 
is truly meant by the expression, to 
have a knack for the obvious. If so,
In 1992 the last entry reads: “On 
other occasions, a woman waiting at a 
check-out desk would remind me of 
my mother because of the way she 
moved or spoke. So it is outside my 
own life that my past existence lies.” 
It would be interesting to see what 
sort of female character emerges as a 
result of Exteriors being developed into 
a novel.
I can’t help but think that she would 
be akin to Patrice in Albert Camus’ A
What we find in Ernaux’s book is 
journal entries from 1985 to 1992. The 
idea behind the entries, according to 
Ernaux, was initiated by the alien­
ation she felt upon moving to a new 
town outside of Paris-Cergy-Pontoise. 
Accustomed to living amid the famil­
iar landscapes and comforting signs of 
the past found in the French prov­
inces, Ernaux is confronted with an 
amorphous, cosmopolitan city devoid 
of all emotional props.
Fundamentally, it is this overwhelm­
ing alienation felt by Ernaux that gives 
her “book of words, scenes, and ges­
tures of unknown people.” the philo­
sophical weight that is only captured
Exteriors tells us much of what we Happy Death. Patrice wonders how 
should already know, or should be on 
our way to discovering.
One such entry in 1989 reads, “In a 
subway car, a boy and girl argue and 
stroke each other, alternately, as if 
they were alone in the world. But they 
know that’s not true: Every now and 
then they stare insolently at the pas­
sengers. My heart sinks. I tell myself 
writing is this for me.”
What could be more endearing than 
the ephemeral moments in our lives 
that signify meanings words can only 
approximate? The journal entry, the 
vignette, the painting, all find their 
justification in capturing these mo­
ments. Ernaux attempts to discover 
herself by discovering the world.
one should live in order to have the 
right death; Ernaux wonders how one 
is to vividly observe life in order to 
consciously live. It should come as no 
surprise that both writers are French. 
With the exception of.the ancient 
Greeks, the existential theme has al­
ways figured most prominently in 
French literature.
Exteriors is a short (95 pages) but 
pleasant book to read. Except for a 
couple of journal entries that seem 
forced or fail to convey their intended 
impression, Ernaux successfully inti­
mates the frailty and quaintness found 
in everyday human interactions. 
Ernaux leaves the reader with an invi­
tation to feel.
Movie fails to evoke 
emotional response
By JULIE WILSON
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
I’ll admit it—I am a sap. I even cry at 
phone card commercials. So, I was fully 
expecting to sob at the film “To Gillian 
on her 37th Birthday.” Advertised as a 
“romantic drama about life, relation­
ships, and enduring love,” I came pre­
pared with tissues. Although the tis­
sues got some use, I don’t think that this 
movie worked to its potential.
What: To Gillian on
Her 37th Birthday 
Director: Micheál Pressman 
Comapny: Triumph Films
dialogue to demonstrate the deep love ¦ 
between the two characters, but it just • 
strengthens the audience’s feeling that * 
David is crazy.
Michael Pressman directed the movie * 
and attempted to make the love be- • 
tween David and Gillian extremely ro- ' 
mantic. Pressman said, “It is the per- • 
feet love relationship; the kind of love • 
that anybody would want, to justify his • 
holding on to her ...” However, the • 
attempt is not as successful as moviego- • 
ers would have hoped. Instead of love • 
being the unbreakable bond between • 
David and his wife, it simply appears 
that David has lost his mind with the • 
loss of his wife. In addition, the work of ¦ 
Esther, his sister-in-law, to help David
The setting is Labor Day weekend on 
Nantucket Island. David Lewis (Peter 
Gallagher) and his teenage daughter, 
Rachel (Claire Danes) live on the is­
land; Rachel, however, has been spend­
ing the summer with her aunt Esther 
(Kathy Baker) and her husband Paul 
(Bruce Altman). The family reunites 
this weekend for a celebration filled 
with karoake singing and a sand castle 
contest. The traditional weekend of 
activities began a few years ago after 
being established by Gillian (Michelle 
Pfeiffer), David’s wife and Esther’s sis­
ter. They continue the celebrations even 
after the recent death of Gillian.
In fact, this weekend marks the sec­
ond anniversary of both Gillian’s birth­
day and her death. But her death seems 
so much more recent to David, even 
though in actuality it happened in a 
boating accident two years ago. David 
refuses to accept that his beloved wife 
is gone; he doesn’t realize that his ob­
session with his late wife had damaged 
his current relationship with Rachel. 
To help David get over Gillian, and also 
repair his ailing relationship with his 
daughter, Esther and Paul bring an
3Tvv8 ans7tyr Pstl S 
Father and daughter, Peter Lewis and 
Claire Danes, console one another.
get over Gillian seems pretty harsh. 
Baker plays the character as a woman 
who is extremely j ealous of the love that 
David and Gillian had, and in some! 
cases still have. Esther fights with David 
attractive single woman named Kevin the entire film and has even begun a 
(Wendy Crewson) along for the week- law suit to take Rachel away from her i 
end activities. Of course, they didn’t father; she feels that Rachel is not being 1 
inform David of their surprise guest, raised in a proper environment. Al- 
Kevin doesn’t even know the details of though her actions are probably justir- 
the weekend until they are on the ferry fied, the attitude that Baker gives the :•
to the island. Then it is too late to turn 
back.
Relationships are examined as the 
weekend progresses and several truths 
are revealed. David must come to grips 
with the fact that his beloved Gillian is 
dead and that he needs to rejoin the 
living for the sake of his daughter. He 
and Gillian had promised each other 
that Rachel would always come first, 
and for the first time in two years David 
is true to that promise. Throughout the
character makes the audience dislike • 
her more that pity David. In parts of the • 
movie, she even overshadows David 
and Gillian’s relationship.
Overall, the movie is not badly done. / 
However, I went expecting to drown in I 
my own tears, but it didn’t happen, i 
Sure the movie is pretty sad, but not for! 
the reasons that I had hoped. Instead of ¦ 
crying over the lost love of David andj 
Gillian, the tears are for the daughter / 
who has to put up with a father who has)
movie, Gillian appears to David and lost his mind. Those who want to cry !
they discuss his need to hold on to the 
memory of his dead wife. Gillian seems 
real to David, yet the audience realizes 
that she is gone. The movie uses this
will definitely use their tissues. How­
ever, the relationships are not explored j 
as much as they could have been and I! 
left the movie feeling a little let down. •
City Theater has Happy Days
By JOHN BIGGS
Tartan Forum Editor
In the City Theatre production of Samuel 
Beckett’s Happy Days, a woman was buried up her 
neck in sand. Thus begins the Lester Hamburg 
Studio Series, the newest and only professional 
second-stage the­
atre series in Pitts­
burgh.
The play, a mix 
between Twin 
j Peaks and The Odd 
Couple, features 
the acting talents 
of ex-head of CMU 
drama Elisabeth 
Orion as Winnie, 
and Robert Parks,
CMU alum and 
drama professor, as 
Willie. Willie is a 
nut. He wiggles and 
wriggles and 
giggles beside the 
immobile Winnie.
And Winnie talks.
Don’t get me wrong, 
here — she doesn’t
just talk, she talks. She talks about umbrellas. She 
talks about mirrors. She talks about a gun she calls 
Brownie. Willie just growls.
Overall, the play seems to say one thing: that life 
is nasty, brutish, and short. The most important 
aspect, however, is that the play was performed. As 
a work of drama, it is strong and powerful. As a 
work of art it is simple, stark, and beautiful. Scenic 
artist J ason Szalla’s pile of sand is quite nice. CMU 
professor Mladen Kiselev’s direction is powerful.
Imagine the complexities of directing a character 
who can’t really move and another character who 
doesn’t talk but hoots, growls, and masturbates.
Orion, winner of the Scottish Drama Award for 
Acting, has previously performed with the Public 
Theatre and the Three Rivers Shakespeare Fes­
tival. Her rich English accent adds leagues to her 
performance. 
With a quiet 
dignity at first 
that leads into 
a slow spiral 
into insanity, 
she discusses 
her relatively 
pointless life 
with grace and 
agility.
Willie, on the 
other hand, is a 
nut. He jibbers 
and giggles. He 
hollers and 
growls. But, 
you ask your­
self, is he the 
only truly sane 
animal on 
stage? When he
acknowledges Winnie’s existence, Winnie grows 
esthetic. Otherwise, he reads the newspaper. 
This series inaugurates City Theatre’s series of 
alternative viewpoints as well as new prices for 
the under-25 set.
All weekday performances of any City Theatre 
show is now $10. Other shows include Avenue X, 
an acappella musical, and a new play by the 
author of Dancing at Lughnasa. Call 431-CITY.
9d7nuil. dL 9su. ariounni
Willie (Robert Parks) adds some sanity to the absurd plot in 
Happy Days.
French festival film subplots create distractions for critiò
By RYAN DONOVAN
Tartan Staffwriter
Ah, the French. Creators of the croissant, the
What could be called the main plot involves]a 
serial killer, named the granny killer by the medja 
for killing only old ladies. This storyline is in tfye
background of most of the movie, but I call it ttye
Eiffel Tower, and really strange movies. One main plot because its the only one resolved with
such movie is I Can’t Sleep, now playing at the much satisfaction.
Rex theater in South Side. It’s just one of the 
many unusual films being shown during the 
Three Rivers Film Festival.
What: I Can’t Sleep 
Director: Claire Denis 
Company: New Yorker Films
The movie begins with two policemen in a 
helicopter, laughing hysterically, and for no ap­
parent reason. I mention this because it gets the 
viewer used to seeing
Unfortunately, although this may sound like £jn 
interesting idea for a movie, the writers suffocated 
it with fifty-seven other subplots. There were £o 
many other little conflicts in here that could haye 
been entire movies, that I got lost and wasn’t really 
all that interested in any of them. The movie cou^d 
have used a better editor, to cut out all the scenes 
that were completely pointless to the movie. I’m 
sure I would have liked it better had the creators 
been less ambitious.
The worst of these offending chunks of roughage 
was the character of Daiga. Sure, she was nice to 
look at, and she had a couple of funny moments, b&t
___________________________ overall, she was
an extra who got 
promoted due to 
looks. Some­
where along the 
way, the writers 
came up with ¡a 
great story about
non sequitors. Non 
sequitor is a French 
phrase, not surpris­
ingly, meaning 
“they’re very good at 
it.”
The story involves
several almost random characters from very dif- a Lithuanian moving to Paris, but decided to splice 
ferent places, with very different subplots. There it into another promising movie about a serial
—Don’t let this scare you away 
from seeing other movies in the 
Three Rivers Film Festival. ”
is Theo, a musician who wants to move to 
Martinique, his girlfriend, who doesn’t want to go 
with him, Theo’s brother, Camille, an adventur­
ous sort, and his lover. There is also a beautiful 
Lithuanian girl, Daiga, who has little to do with 
what could be called the main plotline, but has 
much of the movie devoted to her, with a whole 
slew of subplots attached to her.
killer and got themselves Frankenstein’s monster.
Don’t let this scare you away from seeing othfer 
movies in the Three Rivers Film Festival — you 
win some and you lose some, right? There are tons 
of movies playing at theaters these next week that 
you may never get a chance to see again. So take 
an adventurous journey into the South Side 0r 
downtown and catch some underexposed films. ]

---------------------------------------------------

©g/ ©aPMad . 9aPd/Lf/ -/22sd Cdf3/PyfM• . ii zs3/1v/P iSSo
CMU Operas entertain
By MELISSA BATT
Tartan Staffwriter
This weekend, the Carnegie 
Mellon Music Department of 
Voice presented Giacomo 
Puccini’s Suor Angelica and 
Robert Xavier Rodriguez’s 
Suor Isabella at the Antonian 
' Theatre at Carlow College.
Suor Angelica portrays a 
• young nun who, as the 
’ story unfolds, reveals her 
tormented past. Daily 
events occur at the 
church, and the nuns oc­
cupy themselves with 
prayer and recreation. A 
beautiful coach is seen 
outside the church, and 
word spreads quickly.
Suor Angelica is notified 
that the visitor, a prin- 
: cess, wishes to see her.
The princess, her aunt, 
is only there for a signa­
ture, but tortures Suor 
Angelica with her cold­
ness in response to her 
questions. Here, Suor 
Angelica’s past is re­
vealed by her asking 
about her son. After find­
ing out about his death,
teach Puccini the art of music, he 
was inspired by Verdi’s Aida. 
Puccini most often has a heroine 
in his operas instead of a hero, as 
in Suor Angelica. Usually these 
heroines die for love, and are per­
secuted by someone, as Suor An­
gelica is by her aunt.
Suor Isabella is a comedy about 
a young, beautiful nun who gets 
caught with a man in her room.
9d7nuil. dL 9hm h7ls$ qiyonutigu
Sister Ficcanaso, played by 
Danielle S. Hermon. The set of 
the opera is cleverly designed 
with huge doors combining 
with the backdrop. The orches­
tration of this opera is very 
unique, with intermittent dis­
cordant sections. The orches­
tra is much smaller for this 
opera than for the first, but an 
array of percussion fragments 
peppers the perfor­
mance.
The composer, Robert 
Xavier Rodriguez, has 
performed in over 1000 
professional orchestral 
and operatic perfor­
mances, and has re­
ceived many honors. He 
first gained interna­
tional recognition in 
1971 and is currently 
working as a professor 
at the University of 
Texas in Dallas. The di­
rector, Dorothy Danner, 
has directed and choreo­
graphed more than 140 
productions of various 
genre. She has appeared 
in numerous Broadway 
productions and was a
, faculty member at
she commits suicide to Chia-YingHung, a masters music student, shares JuiHiard for four years, 
join her son in heaven. 3 moment °f reflection with Willem Delventhal 
This Italian opera, ¡n the tragic Suor Angelica.
tragically and passionately de- The other nuns, and especially 
the tattle-telling Sister Ficcanaso, 
wake up the abbess to decide on 
her punishment. While scolding 
Sister Isabella, a pair of trousers 
are curiously found on the 
abbess’s head as a veil, and her 
similar evil-doings are revealed, 
and all is forgiven.
This hilarious opera would not form at the Carnegie Music 
have been the same without the Hall at 8 pm. Tickets are $4 
comical, melodramatic antics of with CMU ID.
picted by Chia-Ying Hung as 
Suor Angelica, with a colorful 
set and powerful, lush melo­
dies, was well performed, be­
ing both mysterious and philo­
sophical.
Giacomo Puccini, the com­
poser, could be considered the 
most famous opera composer 
of all time. After several at­
tempts by family members to
Upcoming events in the 
Carnegie Mellon Music Depart­
ment include the Artist I Fac­
ulty Series with Keith Lockhart 
\ Lucia Lin & Friends at the 
Mellon Institute Auditorium on 
November 13 at 8 pm. Tickets 
are $8 with CMU ID. On No­
vember 15, The Carnegie 
Mellon Philharmonic will per-
Live show tops album
By DAVE ELMAN
Tartan Staffwriter
I was lucky enough to see Man­
hole last Sunday when they 
played in Monroeville, and as good 
as All Is Not Well is, it pales 
before their on-stage presence.
Who: Manhole 
What: All Is Not Well 
Label: Noise Records
like than on most other tracks, record. “Down (reprise)” is an 
and the guitar and bass crunch extension of the previous cut that 
nicelybehindher.Thesongisone experiments with processed
of many that deal with strikingly 
different subject matter. Other 
topics covered are rape, abortion, 
domestic violence, and women’s 
rights. Unfortunately, Tairrie’s 
lackluster writing talents also 
first appear, and this takes away 
from songs that could be quite 
powerful. I felt the lyrics would 
have been better if she had thrown
sound and manages to thank ev­
eryone who has helped Manholfc 
until now.
Other notable tracks are the 
bass-heavy “Sickness,” the pro. 
choice anthem “Put Your Head 
Out,” and the aptly named “Vic- 
tim.” In fact, I was able to apply 
my new psychology knowledge to 
the cut to see that the “belief in a 
just world” prejudice was beingin a little more imagery and re- 
The show added an aggressive lied less on forced rhymes. The attacked. However, the message 
edge to the music and made it all most prominent of these can be should be quite clearwithout prioit 
seem more fun. Vocalist Tairrie found on “Six Feet Deep,” “So I knowledge. These tracks stodjj 
B. reminded me of Lucia Cifarelli stride with pride / As I glide with above the others because the me& 
of Drill, both in appearance and an open eye.” sages contained within were
attitude, and bassist Scott Ueda The album ends on a high note, strong enough to overcome the 
was definitely into the low fre- with two versions of “Down.” The mundane lyrics and formulaic
quencies he was 
putting out.
The recorded 
Manhole is more 
restrained, yet still 
quite lively. The 
music takes a fair 
amount of cues 
from the Black Sab- 
bath school of 
metal, and the re­
sult is not entirely 
unlike Down’s re­
lease, Nola, though 
a bit noisier. Most 
tracks are short, 
with a fair amount 
ofbass, and achieve 
the sonic equiva­
lent of being dirty.
Tairrie’s vocals are 
a mix of screaming 
and rapping, and are what dis­
tinguish the album from a bunch 
of others.
9d7nuil. dL hogrdAi 
Manhole releases their aggression in All Is Not Well.
first is the more standard of the 
two, and features Lynn Strait of 
Snot on accompanying vocals. Mr.
“Hypocrite” gets the album off Strait provides a nice contrast to 
to an appropriate start as Tairrie Tairrie’s singing with his low- 
tackles hypocrisy in relation- key delivery, and the lyrics are 
ships. The vocals are more rap- some of the most biting on the
structures. In fact, af­
ter a few listens the 
music is all a jumble 
in my head. It’s not 
bad per se, but there 
is no experimentation 
going on at all.
Chances are that 
you won’t hear Man­
hole on the radio an$ 
time soon; well ove^ 
half the songs on All 
Is Not Well are not 
suitable for air play. 
It’s almost as if they 
felt that they would 
have a tougher per­
sona ifthey used harsh 
language. This tactic, 
if intended, didn’t 
work on the album. 
While I cannot whole­
heartedly recommend All Is Not 
Well, I can say that if Manhole is 
playing anywhere near you, go 
see them. You won’t be disap­
pointed, but don’t expect the at­
mosphere to be the same once it’s 
bottled.
Top ten list recognizes TV season’s biggest failures
B
by Dan Rosenberg
On the Tube
; v.':This year has been one of the
¦ worst in television history, with 
; dozens of unwatchable programs 
; making it to the airwaves. Listed 
; below are the ten worst network 
; programs still on the air. Anyone 
; can list defunct trash like Fox’s 
'Lush Life or CBS’ short-lived 
; Public Morals, and it’s a little too 
¡easy to badmouth the sitcom- 
; wannabes on the WB or UPN.
; These programs, however, for one 
; reason or another, continue to 
; pollute the airwaves, making 
; them all the more detestable. 
‘These shows are less enjoyable 
; than having a root canal while 
; listening to bluegrass music, hav-
I ing a toe amputated without an- 
: esthesia, or being enrolled in a 
; computer programming class.
; Okay, maybe they’re not as bad 
: as being in a programming class, 
i but you get the general idea of 
! how loathsome these series are.
; Unquestionably one of the 
; worst sitcoms in television his- 
j tory, Men Behaving Badly (NBC) 
j also has the dubious honor of
being the second program ever to 
require its writers to be loboto- 
mized before beginning their job 
(the first show to mandate this 
was the infamously awful My 
Mother the Car). You may think 
that I’m just exaggerating, but 
how else do you account for so- 
called professional writers com­
posing such garbage? Who in their 
right mind wants to watch Rob 
Schneider substitute dirty under­
wear for a coffee filter? For that 
matter, who in the right mind 
wants to watch Rob Schneider do 
anything?
Clueless (ABC) — here’s a bril­
liant concept. Let’s take a medio­
cre movie that was made barely 
watchable by the presence of 
Alicia Silverstone, Silverstone’s 
role, and then re-air variations of 
the bland movie week after week. 
Apparently ABC liked the idea 
(no wonder it’s in third place in 
the ratings!) and so begot this 
dreadful teen comedy. It’s hard 
to tell who really is more clueless, 
the alphabet network execs who 
picked up the show or the people 
who actually watch it. It’s a close 
call, but I’ll venture that it’s the 
latter.
Adding to the wealth of awful 
TV is Martin (FOX). If you think 
that two more years of Newt be­
ing Speaker of the House is horri­
fying, picture this: Thanks to 
Channel 22, which airs two re­
peat episodes of Martin each 
weekday, this horrible program 
starring the obnoxious Martin 
Lawrence is on eleven times a 
week! Five-and-a-half hours of 
Martin each week? Maybe that 
programming 
class wouldn’t be 
so bad after all.
Ellen on ABC is 
another bad addi­
tion to this 
season’s line-up. I 
didn’t think it was 
possible. It was as 
if Lucille Ball had 
agreed to be on 
Gilligan’s Island.
Harriet Sansom 
Harris, who is 
simply wonderful 
in her recurring 
role as Frasier's 
overzealous 
agent, must have 
been desperate 
for money to agree 
to be on a recent 
episode of Ellen DeGeneres’s 
eponymous sitcom. Harris, the 
funniest woman alive, played a 
psychiatrist who urinates in pub­
lic places. Oh, Harriet, if you
come a series ofh&d. Beverly Hill­
billies episodes. Why on earth 
the prototype for a great blue 
collar sitcom would make its char­
acters millionaires is one of the 
great mysteries of life. Or, like
3Tvvj qslgi.
The cast of Ellen returns for a disapointing season.
the idea for New Coke, maybe it 
was just stupidity.
Townies on ABC has an inter­
esting idea: Let’s take someone 
who was fired from The Facts of 
needed money, why didn’t you Life and build a sitcom around
just take out a loan? How could 
you go from television’s best 
sitcom to one of its worst?
Once television’s wittiest half- 
hour, Roseanne (ABC) has be-
her. Better yet, let’s make it just 
like Friends, only set in New 
England instead of New York, 
and let’s get rid of the male friends 
— and the jokes. OK, maybe it’s
not such a great idea, but if we 
put it on after a show that’s just 
as bad (or worse), maybe the 
American public won’t notice just 
how awful the program really is. 
Apparently this strategy thought 
up by ABC execs worked because, 
for one reason or another, some 
people are actually watching this 
program - and the one that pre­
cedes it (the aforementioned 
Ellen).
Who said a really awful show 
can’t be a top ten smash? The 
Single Guy (NBC) proves that 
even terrible programs can get 
an audience. NBC continues to 
baffle everyone by renewing this 
series and giving it a fabulous 
time slot (between the two shows 
it unsuccessfully attempts to imi­
tate, Friends and Seinfeld).
Well, if Rob Schneider can get 
his own sitcom, why can’t the 
almost-as-grating Anthony Clark 
get one, too? Boston Commons 
shows how NBC is giving sitcoms 
away to anyone who wants one. 
It doesn’t matter if you’re not 
even remotely funny and that 
you’re about as interesting to 
watch as an empty aquarium. On 
that note, the peacock network 
has just announced that they will 
be building a sitcom around Ross 
Perot next year. Be sure to watch!
Well, now they’ve done it! NBC 
has taken two wonderful perform­
ers (John Lithgow and Jane
Curtin) and made them act like 
morons for thirty minutes each 
week on Third Rock From the 
Sun. Hell, I guess if network ex­
ecutives can do it and make the 
big bucks, then so can top-of-the- 
line talent like Lithgow and 
Curtin. But at least the bosses do 
it off the air so we don’t have to 
watch. Too bad Lithgow and 
Curtin don’t as well.
NBC Monday Night at the Mov­
ies (NBC) has truned out to be a 
disapointment as well. This pan 
doesn’t apply to every film that’s 
occupied the 9-11 berth (after all, 
the conclusion of Gulliver’s Trav­
els aired here last February), but 
it does pertain to the bulk of 
trashy TV movies.
Y ou know it must of taken some 
brilliant writers to come up with 
such thought-provoking films 
that feature Brian Austin Green 
having an affair with Macaulay 
Culkin’s aunt, Tiffani-Amber 
Thiessen being possessed by a 
dead girl’s body, and, most nota­
bly, Tori Spelling in (I’ll let the 
title speak for itself) Mother, May 
I Sleep with Danger? Geez, I can 
watch Tori or touchdowns (the 
movies air opposite Monday 
Night Football) — how will I 
ever decide?
Dan Rosenberg is a sophomore 
math major. He watches lots of 
bad TV shows, so we don’t have to.
Critic falls madly in love with Romeo and Juliet
I By JULEE WHITE
; Tartan Assistant Features Editor i
| Baz Luhrmann’s cinematic in- 
! terpretation of William 
: Shakespeare’s Romeo & Juliet is a 
: film that people will feel very 
j strongly about.
What: William
Shakesphere’s 
Romeo and Juliet 
Director: Baz Luhrman’s 
Company: Bazmark
! In this film, Luhrmann attempts 
j to present an original interpreta- 
; tion of one of Shakespeare’s most 
; beloved plays to a present day 
\ audience without compromising 
' the original storyline. Luhrmann
faced the challenge of telling a 
story, known by all, in a way that 
will keep the audience intrigued.
Romeo & Juliet stars Leonardo 
DiCaprio and Claire Danes; both 
are known as two of America’s up- 
and-coming young talents. At 19, 
DiCaprio’s second film perfor­
mance, What’s Eating Gilbert 
Grape ?, earned him an Oscar nomi­
nation for Best Supporting Actor. 
Danes is most recognized for her 
leading role in the television drama 
My So-Called Life where she won 
a Golden Globe Award and earned 
an Emmy nomination. The film is 
backed by an extremely talented 
cast with Brian Dennehy as 
Romeo’s father, John Leguizamo 
as Juliet’s cousin, Tybalt, Acad­
emy Award-nominee Pete
Postlethwaite as Father Laurence, 
and Paul Sorvino and Diane 
Venora as Capulet and Lady 
Capulet respectively.
In attempting to present 
Shakespeare’s work in a manner 
that would enhance and clarify 
the language, Luhrmann set the 
film in a world which is recogniz­
ably modem, but is an altered 
reality made-up-of a collage of 
images drawn from theater, reli­
gion, technology, and pop culture. 
The attention to detail in this film 
is very impressive. In each aspect 
of the film, from cinematography, 
to costume, to setting, and so-on, 
Luhrmann works towards a con­
sistent goal. His hope is to present 
“William Shakespeare’s Romeo & 
Juliet” to a present day audience
using recognizable visual themes 
to clarify the original language of 
the story.
The interaction between the 
characters is incredible. Each 
character’s individual personality 
is enhanced so that there is no 
mistaking or mixing up the roles 
of minor characters. Luhrmann’s 
film presents the story of Romeo & 
Juliet as relative to the modem 
day audience and thus succeeds in 
showing the timelessness of the 
classic by enhancing the human­
ness and accessibility of the char­
acters to today’s society.
Finally, I found it very impres­
sive that this film is PG rating. In 
a film that focuses on our society 
as a “movie culture” it would have 
been very easy to incorporate
graphic scenes of violence and sex. 
Both of which are handled very 
tastefully and are in keeping with 
the consistency of the film and the 
personalities of the characters.
This is a film that should be seen 
more than once and keep you pick­
ing up subtleties in the film after 
many viewings. A knowledge of 
the background information and 
reasons for certain aspects of the 
film deepens the appreciation of 
the extensive research done and 
the attempt to present a classic 
love story in an original way so as 
to be understood by a modem au­
dience. Luhrmann impressively 
does this without compromising 
the storyline, and thus clarifies 
the language through usage and 
visual presentation.
Clamour Shots.
More than you ever pictured- 
High fashion photography studio is currently looldnj 
for highly motivated, professional individuals to ho/í 
in a high energy, glamorous and fun environment.
POSITIONS AVAILABLE:
• GENERAL MANAGERS •Ultimately responsible for successful store operations and promotions in a million dollar maifcel Also includes FiL staff managcfliffit and development.
* OPERATIONS MANAGERS •Responsible far daily operations, which indudes scheduling, payroll management and customer service.
•PROMOTIONS MANAGERS-Responsible for all inside and outside promotions, sales presentations and training.______
We Will Train The Right Penonl
Please
1-800-3104)494exl 4525or fu resume to: {330} 793-8627 
Hiring hi ibis Pui, Soutkeni ftA Monroeville 4 Century 111 Mib

---------------------------------------------------

©g/ ©aPMad . 9aPd/Lf/ -/22sd Cdf3/PyfM• . ii zs3/1v/P iSSoV22
DH 2210
riLLI I I I Imigrr
movies you may have seen before....
By JOHN BIGGS
Thursday, November 14 
Dr. Strangelove, or How I Learned 
to Stop Worrying & Love the Bomb
Stanley Kubrick directs this thrill-a-minute power 
feast. It is a movie. See, what it’s about is nuclear 
war. There’s this guy who takes over an air-force 
base and launches all the B-52s (the airplane, not 
the band) against the Soviet Union (the condiment, 
not the band) because he is scared of Commies. The 
American government learns that the Soviets have 
built a big, giant bomb. So they all have to stop the 
pain. Peter Sellers plays three people in this one, 
which is also unusual.
This, you see, is a classic. See it with someone who 
has learned to stop worrying and love the bomb.
At 7:30 pm, 10 pm, and 12:30 am.
DH2210
Friday, November 15 
A Time to Kill
I feel it is time to bring up my favorite passage 
from psalms: “To everything, there is a season, and 
a time for every purpose under heaven. A time to 
live, a time to die. A time to run, a time to walk. A 
time to pay your taxes, and a time to refrain from 
paying. A time to gather up stones, and a time to 
hire a contractor to do it for you. A time to sue a 
contractor.”
Anyway, this is a John Grisham vehicle starring 
Matthew Mconoheeeeeee (he has big pectoral 
muscles, which are like boobies) and Samuel Jack­
son (who does not have very big pectoral muscles, 
but he’s a better actor than that McConomy guy 
any day). So Jackson is a murderer and 
McDonaldson has to spring him from the brig.
At 7:30 pm, 10 pm, and 12:30 am.
McConomy Auditorium
Saturday, November 16 
Striptease
Uh-oh. This one has nakedness in it, ribald, 
bawdy nakedness. I can’t support this kind of filth, 
so I’m going to let you put in your own review.
This _______ movie _______ Demi Moore who
________Burt Reynolds. See, she__________to help
pay for her ___________ and then enters the
_ underbelly of the _
Although it is nothing like Showgirls, it does fea­
ture the____________of Demi Moore as well as
________ in a plastic bag filled with mint jelly
and pork chops. See it with El_________del Falafel.
At 8 pm, 10 pm, and midnight.
McConomy Auditorium
Sunday, November 17 
The Doll Squad
You want to know what The Doll Squad’s about? 
It’s about a girl who meets a guy in the CIA. We’re 
talking this real band of roving women who go on 
missions, here. I’m talking mission, mission, mis­
sion, morning, noon, and light. So she meets this 
evil guy who wants to blow up the world. We’re 
talking a real evil guy.
I mean she’s feeling something she hasn’t felt in 
a long time: the feeling that this movie is the 
precursor to Charlie’s Angels. Now that’s a tasty 
milkshake.
At 8 pm, 10 pm, midnight.
McConomy Auditorium
Album exhibits new musical style
By CHUCK FRYMAN
Tartan Staffwriter
Hungry? Get ready to sink your 
teeth into Subliminal Sandwich, 
the new CD from Meat Beat Mani­
festo which combines both ambi­
ent and popular techno on a two 
disc set.
first disc. Mostly ambient, disc two 
contains practically no vocals and 
no powerful beats.
It sounds very much like the 
musical stylings of Aphex Twin or 
The Orb. Disc two still contains 
samples but they’re mostly used 
as transitions from song to song 
and not repeated throughout the
Who: Meat Beat 
Manifesto 
What -.Subliminal 
Sandwich 
Label: Interscope 
Records
The band, hailing from San 
Francisco, actually consists only 
of Jack Dangers and collabora­
tors, who play extra instruments 
and sing vocals on certain tracks. 
Aregular one-man-band, Dangers 
takes care of the bass, waterphone, 
bass clarinet, mellotron, theremin, 
synthesizers, samples, turntables 
and vocals himself (don’t ask — 
I’m not sure what some of them 
are either).
There’s pretty much no instru­
ment on the album that doesn’t
plug in, so the whole disc has a 
generally electronic sound. Its a 
good electronic, though. But while 
both discs have an electronic sound, 
two very different styles of mod­
em techno are represented.
The first disc is the more pop 
techno and industrial CD. It’s 
chock full of samples, cool beats 
and vocals. I really enjoy 
this disc, which at times re­
minds me of the older music 
ofMachines of Loving Grace.
Two of the best songs on 
disc one are “Asbestos Lead 
Asbestos” and “Nuclear 
Bomb.” The former is as 
close as this CD gets to a 
traditional chorus and 
verses song, and it’s one you 
can really get into. “Nuclear 
Bomb,” on the other hand, 
has an unintelligible sample 
which is repeated through­
out the song. The entire 
track sounds strangely fa­
miliar.
When disc two starts to Sandwich.
play, you’re completely surprised track. My favorite from this disc 
— it’s a total departure from the has to be “Plexus,” a song in which
3 TvO( NniiglAiiDil Pi$sdnpl
Subliminal Sandwich, delves into 
uncharted musical waters.
something called a Jupiter 4 i^ 
played. Most of the second disc’s 
songs blend together into one big 
feast for the ears, though. I just 
know that I like the second disc in 
general, and the whole two disc set 
for that matter.
The album isn’t perfect — I’v4 
heard better attempts at botti 
musical styles on the album. Alsd 
there are times when Dangers 
seems to be trying to make hiq 
music especially weird or trippy 
These attempts fail to impress me 
after listening to much better 
trippy music, such as Ween.
The two disc set remains a defi­
nite achievement, though. I’ve 
known bands that have changec 
their musical style before but nevei* 
in the middle of an album.
I appreciate the fact that Danf 
gers is not afraid to try different 
things. By delving into uncharted 
musical waters, Meat Beat Manif 
festo has created an excellent 
musical journey on Subliminal^
Listener dislikes depressing music;
By ANDY SEYMOUR
Tartan Staffwriter
When I first read the title of 
this new album by The Heads, No 
Talking, Just Head, I was slightly 
bored and annoyed, but I figured 
you shouldn’t try to judge a book 
by its cover.
Who: The Heads 
What: No Talking, Just 
Head 
LabeI:MCA Records
center around sex, lust, and li­
bidinal urges and desires. Fla­
vored with the standard, over­
used techno and industrial noise 
of this era, this album still main­
tains some sense of variety, span­
ning various genres of music such 
as reggae, punk, funk, industrial, 
and speedy, pitch-bending dancy 
stuff.
Lyrically, The Heads do not 
seem to be all that original. How­
ever, some poetic attempts at de-
Actually, the songs written and 
sung by the female band mem­
bers e.g., “Damage I’ve Done,” 
“No More Lonely Nights” tend to 
be much more pleasing to the 
palette than those written and 
sung by the male band members, 
although I don’t know what the 
underlying reasons are for this.
The darkness of the lyrical and 
instrumental pieces of this al­
bum is interspliced with a con­
spicuous, Madonna-esque motive
scribing lust, love, and loss of to shock, something all too com-
Having never heard any previ­
ous releases by this band, I didn’t 
have much to go on as far as past 
attempts at songwriting and such, 
but the theme and overall mes­
sage of this typical product of the 
’90s was clear.
Given the title of this album, 
it’s not surprising that the songs
love do keep them above water. 
While following the lyrics as I
mon these days. How do they get 
away with this sensationalist
listened to each song, I couldn’t clamoring for attention? I was 
help but giggle in embarrassment quite bored with the album in 
to myself. In a nutshell, a few of this sense.
the songs e.g., “No Talking, Just 
Head,” “Nevermind” on this al­
bum are almost corny, making
The album does have its mer­
its, however. The texture of the 
music is quite rough, but rhyth-
me feel ashamed that this stuff mic, giving a general dancy sound
passes as art.to the album. The varying styles
from one song to the next demonr 
strate the diverse tastes of these 
musicians. And the layering ot 
various samples—vocal, synthej- 
sized, and other instrumental 
sounds—create a feeling of somej- 
thing like being tangled in a glassi- 
encrusted, spiny spider web.
Overall, the album seems to 
collectively paint a picture of the 
pitfalls of love and romance, foj- 
cusing on violence, breaking free:, 
and hopelessness. I guess there’s 
a message of depression and anxi­
ety here. I would be interested to 
hear other music by The Heads', 
but I doubt their music could be 
any more plastic and tainted by 
’90s consumerism. No Talking, 
Just Head will probably appeal 
to those youngsters for whom 
manic and depressive mood styles 
seem to jive with their own, but I 
wouldn’t buy it.
ATTENDInformation Night
Tuesday, November 12, 1996, 7pm-9pmLOCATIONRoom 214, University CenterDISCIPLINES Computer Science, Mechanical, Computer, Electrical,
Material and Chemical Engineering
OF THEeirL1
8
It’s not really his title, but it’s definitely his job.
Met him on campus a couple of years ago. Someone knew .. 
someone who knew him. Up to his eyeballs in ASICs, with some off 
the wall Ideas about a high speed, board-level remote access solution. 7 
His first response to us: "Yeah, right." [
So we reminded him about our bold technical 
leadership. Except for being surrounded by state-of-the-art 
everything, the sharpest minds in technology and the world's 
leading systems organization, we told him, he'd practically 
be left alone to develop his Ideas. Mr. Autonomy.
Since then he took his Idea about 
remote computing to the Nth degree. Now it's part of our 
newest PCMCIA based remote network computing solutions.
Which brings us back to campus. This semester we're 
scouting the country again, looking for more spirited people and 
Ideas. We're pushing this company to the Nth degree.
jdU •sh uad Ma5/ hy Mg/P/D

---------------------------------------------------

CALENDAR
Mr. Delta Epsilon shows off his stuff In last Saturday’s Mr. Fraternity.
Central Blood Bank is hosting a blood 
drive at the University of Pittsburgh Law 
School on Wednesday from 9 am to 2:45 pm 
at 3900 Forbes Avenue. A blood drive will 
also be held at the Western PA School for 
Blind Children on Thursday from 10 am to 
3:45 pm at 201- Bellefield Avenue. GSO is 
sponsoring a blood drive on Friday from 
noon to 5:45 pm at West Wing. St. Francis 
Central Hospital is hosting a blood drive on 
November 22 from 8:30 am to 2:15 pm at 
1200 Centre Avenue. For more informa­
tion, call 456-1972.
religion
Pittsburgh Compline Choir sings Cho­
ral Compline in Heinz Chapel on the Uni­
versity of Pittsburgh campus every Sunday 
at 8:30 pm. These services will continue 
until November 24. For more information, 
contact the Lutheran University Center at 
682-6886.
music_______
Birds, Basilisks, & Other Medieval 
Beasts, an exploration with instruments 
and voice of Medieval ideas about animals, 
will be performed by the Renaissance and 
Baroque Society on November 16 at 8 pm in 
Synod Hall. For more information, contact 
Polly McQueen at 682-5253.
River City Brass Band will present “River 
City Celebration” on November 16 at 8 pm 
in the Carnegie Music Hall. For more infor­
mation, contact Bill Schlageter at 322-7222.
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra is fea­
turing guest conductor Zdenak Macal and 
pianist Jeffrey Siegel in Liszt’s Concerto 
No. 1 for Piano and Orchestra on November
14, 15, and 17 . For more information, 
contact Frank Catanzano at 392-4835.
Music on the Edge continues this Friday 
with a concert by the Talujon Percussion 
Quartet. Roger Zahab will play “cool and 
unusual” music for the violin and piano on 
Tuesday at 8 pm. All performances will be 
held in the Frick Fine Arts Auditorium at 
Pitt, and tickets are $3 for students. For 
more information, contact Marilyn Locker 
at 624-4125.
SPIC MACAY is presenting a Classical 
Odissi Dance Recital by India’s legendary 
dance teacher and choreographer 
Padmabhushan Guru Kelucharan 
Mohaptra on Saturday at 7:30 pm at Rangos 
Ballroom in the University Center. For 
more information, contact Joyoni Dey at
621-8296.
Christmas Concerts, by the Heinz Chapel 
Choir, will be performed on December 1 at 
3 pm and 7:30 pm, and on December 6 at 8 
pm in Heinz Chapel. Tickets, $6 for general 
admission and $3 for students, must be 
purchased in advance. For more informa­
tion, contact Marilyn Locker at 624-4125.
Chatham Baroque presents its annual 
costumes and candlelight concerts on No­
vember 22 and 23 at 8 pm, and November
24 at 3 pm in the James Laughlin Music 
Center at Chatham College. The program 
showcases Italian and German chamber 
works and trio sonatas dating from the
17th century. Tickets are $12 for general 
admission and $8 for students. For more 
information, contact Julie Andrijeski at 
244-1159.
This Assention, Autumn, The Garden
perform at the Gothic Music Concert at 
Charlie’s Bistro tonight at 8 pm. Tickets 
are $7.
theater______
Dance Alloy will begin their season with 
Fall Passage at Byham Theater on Novem­
ber 23 at 8 pm. Tickets range from $10-$24. 
For more information, call 363-4321.
The Playhouse of Point Park College
presents Pinocchio through November 24. 
For more information, call 621-4445.
Happy Days will be presented by City 
Theatre from November 6-24. The director 
and cast are all CMU professors. For more 
information, call 431-CITY.
Performing Arts for Children presents 
Norman Foote, the “Robin Williams of 
children’s music,” on Sunday at 1:30 and 
3:30 pm at Gateway High School in 
Monroeville and 5:30 and 7:30 pm on No­
vember 21 at Marshall Middle School in the 
North Hills. For more information, contact 
Eric Haines at 321-5520.
Holiday Dazzler is a package deal that 
combines a visit to “Toy Bop” and “Nut­
cracker” on the dates December 26-30. Tick­
ets are $40 and limited. Advance purchase 
is required by December 20. For more infor­
mation, contact Trish Beatty at 454-6372. 
To order tickets, call 454-9107.
museums
Boxes is an abstract work that will be on 
display at the Hewlett Gallery until No­
vember 24. For more information, contact 
Petra Fallaux at x8-3877.
Pittsburgh Regional History Center pre­
sents “Toy Bop,” an exhibit of toys, dolls, 
and games from the ’50s and ’60s which 
opens on November 15 and runs through 
January 6. For more information, contact 
Trish Beatty at 454-6372.
Room is a performance event which ex­
plores the hybridization of opposing ex­
tremes. The performance will take place on 
Friday and Saturday at the Fresh 55 Gallery 
at 5735 Forbes Avenue. For more informa­
tion, call the Fresh 55 Gallery at 739-7784.
Playback, a slide installation by Lorie 
Novak, will be on display at the Manches­
ter Craftsmen’s Guild Gallery from No­
vember 4 through December 2. For more 
information, call 322-1773.
Landscape, A Woman’s Point of View, 
will be on display at La Fond Galleries. 
The Opening Reception will be held on 
Friday from 6 to 9 pm. For more informa­
tion, call 431-3337.
Second Annual Gala Open House in
the Music and Art Department of the Car­
negie Library of Pittsburgh will take place 
on November 16 from 10 am to 5 pm. For 
more information, call 622-3105.
GSIA Gallery is exhibiting a set of com- 
puter-generated abstract paintings until 
November 15. For more information, con­
tact Rich Young at 661-1190.
reading______
Common Grounds Coffee House: Fall 
1996poetry reading series will feature David 
Stasenko and Erin Fleming on Tuesday, 
November 19 at 7 pm. For more informa­
tion, call 362-1190.
International Poetry Forum presents 
distinguished Darwinian scholar Philip 
Appleman, who will read from his New and 
Selected Poems, 1956-1996, on November 6 
at 8 pm in the Carnegie Lecture Hall. For 
more information, contact the International 
Poetry Forum at 621-9893.
on campus
Sexual Assault Advisors is a volunteer 
group of students, staff, and faculty who 
meet regularly for training and education 
about sexual assault prevention. For more 
information, contact Kerri Ullucci at x8- 
2075. Applications are due November 15.
Breaking Silence is a workshop on No­
vember 13 that will take a look at rape, the 
effects on victims, resources, and how to 
support those who have been victimized. It 
will take place in the West Wing TV Room 
from 6:30 to 9 pm with dinner provided. If
coldg •sieigpdnLfaonuog Irdud 'psudn
interested, you must RSVP by Friday. For 
more information or to RSVP, email ku22.
Seed Grants are being offered by the Pitts­
burgh Tissue Engineering Initiative for up 
to $20,000 for six-month projects. Applica­
tions are due on November 22. For more 
information, call 383-9703.
Dynamic individuals who are interested 
in becoming Resident Assistants can at­
tend one of the following informal meet­
ings: Wednesday, November 16 from 6 to 7 
pm in the Pake Room in the UC.
Diwali, the Festival of Lights, will be held 
on Sunday in the Drill Deck of the Student 
Center. Doors open at 6:30 pm. Contact 
mayur@cmu.edu for more information.
Auditions for next semester’s “Sometimes 
I Wake Up in the Middle of the Night” will 
take place today and tomorrow with 
callbacks on Thursday. For more 
information, contact Sameer Karim at 
moocow@andrew.
BMI Student Composer Awards Com­
petition will award $16,000 to young com­
posers. There are no limitations to instru­
ment, style or length of work submitted, 
and the prizes range from $500 to $3,000. 
Applications are available from Ralph N. 
Jackson, Director, BMI Student Composer 
Awards, 320 West 57th Street, New York, 
NY 10019. The postmark deadline is Feb­
ruary 7, 1997. For more information, con­
tact Jackson at (212)830-9703.
lectures
Reinventing Electric Utilities: 
Competition, Citizen Action and Clean 
Power will be presented by Ed SmelofT, 
Senior Board Member of the Sacramento 
Municipal Utility District on Tuesday at 6 
pm in Rangos Hall in the University Center. 
It will discuss renewable energy programs 
and its benefits. For more information, call 
the Pennsylvania Resources Council at 661- 
4447.
Writing for Broadcast will be presented 
by Craig Windham, newscaster/reporter 
with National Public Radio in Washington. 
The talk will take place on November 19 
from noon to 1:20 pm in Porter Hall 100. 
For more information, call the English 
Department at x8-1073.
You can advertise forfree in 
TheTartan!
If you know of an event on or off 
campusthathasrelevancetothecanv 
pus community, email auyoung® 
andrew.cmu.eduormailrtto TheTartan, 
box 17 in the Carnegie Mellon University 
Center by the Wednesday before the 
event
Vox Populi is a forum open to the 
entire campus communitylTo submita 
vox, simply emailittoauyoung@andrew. 
cmu.edu, send ¡ttoTheTartan, Box 17 
via campus mail or drop it in the Vox 
Populi drop box ontheTartan Server.
Remember, the Vox rocks chicken 
pox, jocks, pink socks, and Goldilocks.
TaiGalifrey
“CMU Men’s Volleyball?!?
Yep, and if s coming soon 
toagymnearyou....”
—wad"af6 rF FFF0>Q 
“Magawitas”Mts
Happyamiiversaiy!stm
: youknow ,yourhairis 
justlikesilk
oaahoo forCuzll!”
I sawthe Vision, and He 
was beautiful.
2more!
-abovetheline
Schmoopey,
You're the number 
oneCheeseball.
you’remoneyandyou
don’tevenknowit
Who’s the schmoopy? 
sSchmelbo
Purecomrunsfast
Dr.Slrangelove will 
play Thursday at 
lOpmandmidnight in 
DH2210.
ATimetoKill will play 
Fridayat7:30,10pm, 
and 12:30am in 
McConomy Auditorium.
Striptease will play 
Saturday at8,10pm, 
and midnight in 
McConomy Auditorium.
TheDollSquad will play 
Sunday at8,10pm, and 
midnightin McConomy 
Auditorium.
nPostino will playat 
Campbell Memorial 
Chapel atChatham 
CollegeonNovember21 
and 22 at 7 pm.
Women’s Basketball will start the sea­
son with the CMU Tip Off Tourney on 
November 22 and 23.
Men’s Basketball starts the season with 
the West Penn Classic on November 22 
and 23.
Men’s and Women’s Cross Country will 
next compete in the NCAA Championships 
in Augustana on Saturday.
Men ’s and Women’s Swimming will com­
pete against Case Western on Saturday at 
1 pm.
around town
sports_______
Football will take on Union College at 
home on Saturday at 1:30 pm.
¦111
Schenley Ice Skating Rink is now open. 
College ID Nights, admission $2 with ID, 
will be held on Tuesday nights from 9:30 to 
11:30 pm, Sunday nights from 7 to 9 pm, 
and Wednesday afternoons from 1:30 to 
3:30 pm. Regular admission is $3. For more 
information, please contact Tom Driscoll at 
422-6523.
