www.thetartan.org10 January 2005diurne 99, Issue 13
Carnegie Mêlions student newspaper since 1Q06.TARTAN
Letters from the staffA letter of intent to the CMU community
Since April of 2004, The Tartan has 
undergone a period of restructuring 
and rebuilding. Our focus has been 
recentered on our mission to excel as 
Carnegie Mellon’s foremost printed 
source of campus news, and on our re­
lationship with the campus community 
in achieving that goal.
In this special issue, we want both to 
make our intentions clear and to tell 
you, as our readers, what our goals are 
as a newspaper. What follows is a set of 
professional affirmations that has been 
guided by the Citizens’ Bill of Journal­
ism Rights from the Project for Excel­
lence in Journalism. It is tailored to The 
Tartan’s specific role within this Univer­
sity and its community, and is meant to 
be a mission statement of our goals and 
guidelines. Included are the core of our 
ethical standards; a way of holding us 
— a news organization — accountable; 
and the seeds of community dialogue. 
In “community,” we include adminis­
trators, faculty and staff members, our 
Pittsburgh readers, and, most impor­
tantly, the students.
1. The Tartan seeks to offer report­
ing that is as truthful as possible. It is 
the responsibility of every writer, edi­
tor, photographer, and artist on its staff 
to find the truth behind what they are 
covering.
• Journalism is a process of verifi­
cation: A story should clearly state its 
sources of information, the bases of 
its knowledge, and assurance that the 
information is relevant. Anonymous 
sources should be used only when there 
is no other means of obtaining informa­
tion that is critical to the story’s fair­
ness and integrity. Each source should 
be unambiguously identified whenever 
possible, so that readers can judge the 
reliability and potential biases of a 
source. The Tartan is committed to up­
holding these values.
2. Readers should expect that The 
Tartan’s first loyalty is to the commu­
nity. This means that stories should 
fulfill the reader’s needs without influ­
ence from special interests — whether 
that be from University administration, 
student government, or student organi­
zations.
Bradford L. Yankiver
Executive Officer
Front pages of The Tar­
tan from decades past hang 
framed on the walls of The 
Tartan’s office. The April 29, 
1914, issue reports the dedica­
tion of the Design School The­
atre, the first theater on our 
campus. The January23,1970, 
issue’s headline reads “Strom 
Attacked by Jeers & Marsh­
mallows”; the page displays a 
photo of Senator Thurmond 
with a dozen marshmallows 
at his feet. And the issue of No­
vember 20, 1984, announces, 
“Defense Dept, to build SEI 
[Software Engineering Insti­
tute] at CMU.” The Tartan has 
chronicled the events of our 
community and has provided 
provocative and practical in­
formation to our readers for 
more that a hundred years.
As I look at these pages, I am 
reminded of the importance 
of a thriving news organiza­
tion. A newspaper provides its 
readers with accurate and reli­
able information they need to 
make informed decisions in a 
their lives and to be engaged
members of a community. In 
this way, a newspaper can be a 
rallying point for a community, 
inspiring constructive discus­
sion and debate that leads to 
great change.
With this issue, we reaffirm 
our dedication to the com­
munity, to the University, and 
to you. It is our greatest as­
piration to serve our reader­
ship well, and we are actively 
working to do that. The Tartan 
Commission Report has been 
greatly helpful to us, and we 
have successfully adopted 
many of its recommendations. 
We are tackling the issue of 
diversity in our organization; 
we are trying to mount more 
effective recruitment cam­
paign; we are investing in our 
staffs training; we are gen­
erating a broader network of 
connections with the commu­
nity; we are developing means 
by which the organization 
can maintain organizational 
continuity despite inevitable
See YANKIVER, page A4
Mark Egerman
Former Executive Officer
Nobody believed me when 
I told them I had the greatest 
job on campus. As the Execu­
tive Officer of The Tartan, I in­
herited an organization that 
was heavily in debt, where a 
significant number of the staff 
had quit following the “Natrat” 
scandal, and whose name had 
been heavily disparaged not 
only on campus, but in the 
greater Pittsburgh community 
and even in the national press. 
This was an organization that 
was the lowest point in its his­
tory, that was understaffed 
and required a significant 
amount of work to get back 
on its feet. Yet I was convinced 
that there was no better way to 
make a significant impact on 
the campus community and to 
really make a difference. So I 
ignored my friends’ advice and 
joined the organization.
In many ways I am im­
mensely proud of how far the 
Tartan has come in the past 
semester. I have harped on this 
point in my Executive Privi­
lege column and I’ll try not to 
repeat myself, but the dedica­
tion of this staff has amazed 
me. While The Tartan has 
grown in many ways, I’d like 
to focus on how we dealt with 
the Commission’s report and 
the changes we have made.
The Tartan Commission Re­
port represented the collective 
effort of a group of commu­
nity leaders who had seriously 
analyzed The Tartan. Read­
ing their recommendations 
provided me with new input 
on how to change and grow 
the organization along each 
charge that they presented. 
At the same time, I was trying 
my hardest to understand The 
Tartan myself. I was new to the 
organization and I wanted to 
figure out how best to improve 
things. As a result, I formed a 
task force of my own, charged 
with going over every single 
one of the Tartan Commis­
sion’s recommendations.
3. The Tartan’s goal is to cover You can find the Citizen’s Bill ofJournal-
what is important to its readership — ism Rights online at the following URL:
• If an article that The Tartan prints students, faculty, administration, and http://www.journalism.org/resourc
is especially significant to the commu- other community members included. es/guidelines/rights.asp.
From Jared Cohort, 
President of the University
From Michael Murphy, 
Dean of Student Affairs
I applaud The Tartan’s de­
cision to run this Special Edi­
tion devoted to the report of 
the Commission convened 
to recommend corrective 
actions resulting from last 
April’s events , and I applaud 
The Tartan’s and our commu­
nity’s responses to the report. 
I commend the Commission’s 
members for their hard work 
and wise counsel and The 
Tartan for its very positive 
and constructive response 
to the Commission’s recom­
mendations.
This Special Edition is 
timely, though that may 
seem counterintuitive. The 
“Natrat” appeared more 
than nine months ago, and 
the Commission’s report was 
submitted at the beginning 
of last semester. Neverthe­
less, much of what the Com­
mission recommended can 
only be addressed in the long 
term. Now is a particularly 
good time — the start of a 
new year and a new semes­
ter, a week before Martin Lu­
ther King Jr. Day — to start 
contributing to the resolution 
of these long-term issues on 
which I elaborate below.
Like most of us, I was ap­
palled by the content of the 
“Natrat.” As President, I kept 
asking myself how this could
have happened. How could 
my students, for whom I am 
ultimately responsible, have 
been so insensitive and so out 
of touch with the Carnegie 
Mellon community to think 
that the “Natrat” was funny 
—or, I suppose, funny enough 
— to justify the pain it caused 
the campus community?
The Commission’s report, 
in its third set of recommen­
dations, draws our attention 
to the hard but crucial issues 
of the culture and climate on 
our campus and, in particular, 
to the role of our undergrad­
uate curricula. How can we 
better educate our students 
to understand and appreciate 
differences among us? This 
is, after all, the real payoff of 
our diversity efforts. It is an 
empty achievement, at best, 
to create a diverse commu­
nity whose groups coexist but 
rarely interact and in which 
individual students develop 
little or no understanding of 
anyone or any culture differ­
ent from them or theirs.
Faculty groups and the Uni­
versity Education Council are 
taking on these issues but in 
the broader context of our 
general education program, 
which is overdue for a review.
The publication of the 
April 1 “Natrat” duly caused 
considerable outcry on this 
campus and well beyond. 
In the wake of publication, 
there was active and some­
times heated discussion and 
debate on how such an inci­
dent could have happened. 
Ultimately, the focus was on 
why, on what it meant for us 
as a community — what it 
said about us a community 
— and on the future.
Students, faculty and staff 
have rarely been as engaged 
in discussing this commu­
nity as they were in the days 
and weeks of April. Few were 
without an opinion, ranging 
from those citing the Natrat 
as an isolated incident not 
worthy of great concern to 
those citing it as a profound 
statement on the gaps in our 
understanding and the need 
for all of us to better under­
stand and commit to the high­
est ideals of our community. 
It was a painful time, with 
wounds that linger. It was, 
perhaps most importantly, a 
call to look in earnest at our­
selves and to rise up to a new 
level of community.
My love for this University 
is grounded in many things, 
chief among them the enor­
mous talent, compassion
and integrity of our students. 
This has been at the core of 
our growth in the months 
since April. Many deserve the 
highest praise for stepping up 
at a time when it would have 
been easy to step away — in­
cluding our student leaders in 
government, in key cultural 
organizations and in student 
life. Indeed, those students 
who stepped up to leadership 
in the Tartan itself, and those 
who stepped forward to join 
in the future of the Tartan, 
should be lauded. Those in­
volved with the Tartan will 
be the first to accept that they 
are continuing to prove their 
mettle to their peers, while 
certainly their progress over 
the summer and fall is clear.
Some student organiza­
tions, advisory committees, 
governing councils, and aca­
demic and non-academic 
departments have lever­
aged this incident to further 
their exploration and action. 
Some, but not all. For those 
who have, aiming to be not 
just a highly diverse and able 
community, but a unique­
ly engaged and respectful 
one, it is a clear priority. For 
those who have not, we must 
continue to share the core
See EGERMAN, page A4
J.T. Trollman
Editor-in-Chief
In the brief issue that The 
Tartan published immediately 
following The Natrat last April, 
I wrote that I was still proud 
to work at this newspaper and 
with the people in this office. 
Now, after a semester of re­
structuring and rebuilding, 
my faith in this organization 
has grown twice over. In De­
cember I was elected by the 
staff to become The Tartan’s 
new Editor-in-Chief for the 
coming calendar year — but I 
would not have run for the po­
sition had I any doubts about 
the integrity of the people 
who work with me.
The Tartan is a new orga­
nization. New, and growing. 
The Tartan Commission Re­
port that was published over 
the summer of 2004 — and 
which we have reproduced 
here — helped to reaffirm ba­
sic changes that needed to be 
made, and we have thrown 
ourselves into addressing 
them over this past semester.
Mark Egerman stood up as a 
member of the community to 
become our Executive Offi­
cer, and was instrumental in 
changing our direction as an 
organization. He has detailed 
the moves that we have made 
in his own piece, above.
Our focus remains, however, 
on improvements that we must 
continue to make as your fore­
most source of printed news 
on campus. We have just be­
gun to reach out again to the 
community at large in order 
to bring new perspectives and 
ideas to The Tartan, and this 
effort should be redoubled in 
the coming semester. Mark 
Egerman has taken the role of 
Personnel Manager in order 
to continue his efforts of staff 
growth and development, 
and Kristina Wiltsee contin­
ues to be our Ombudsman 
after defining exactly how 
the new position should func-
See COHON, page A4See MURPHY, page A4See TROLLMAN, page A4

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN • JANUARY 10, 2005
Report of the Presidential Commission 
Responding to Issues Raised by the April 2004 
Publication of the “Natrat”
History and Context
On April 1, 2004, the Carnegie Mellon student news­
paper The Tartan published its annual April Fool’s Day 
satire issue, the “Natrat.” This publication received im­
mediate community attention (and, eventually, that 
of local, national and international media) for repre­
sentations of non-whites, gays and women that many 
readers deemed offensive and obscene. Greatest com­
munity reaction focused on a cartoon that included the 
use of a racial epithet in a violent context; a misogy­
nist image of a woman’s genitals being penetrated by 
an ice skate (superimposed by two poems that focused 
on rape and sexual violence); and a homophobic es­
say that associated lesbians with bestiality. In light of 
the level of immediate voiced displeasure from many 
members of the community, the Tartan leadership de­
cided to remove all copies of the “Natrat” from campus 
distribution sites within twenty-four hours of its re­
lease. Quickly thereafter, they publicly acknowledged 
making mistakes during the “Natrat” ’s production pro­
cess and issued a special one-sheet edition on April 5, 
2004, apologizing to the community.
In response to the “Natrat,” some community groups 
and individuals, including President Cohon, Faculty 
Senate, Staff Council, Student Senate, the Gradu­
ate Student Assembly and the Student Government, 
issued statements condemning the publication of such 
material by an organization whose primary ambition is 
to represent the student voice. Both among those who 
found the “Natrat” profoundly offensive and those who 
did not, many argued that the First Amendment rights 
of the student press must be given consideration in 
calibrating any potential institutional response to the 
matter. The ensuing weeks saw a number of campus 
rallies and forums, organized both by students and the 
administration, that gave community members public 
venues in which they could share their opinions, feel­
ings and recommendations.
In an April 5, 2004, letter to the campus, President 
Cohon called the “Natrat” “irresponsible and uncon­
scionable” as well as “an affront to all people of con­
science and diametrically opposed to the firmly held 
values and beliefs of this community.” By way of re­
sponse, he established this Presidential Commission 
to investigate the events surrounding the publication. 
Dr. Cohon appointed Student Body President Daniel 
Gilman and Director of Student Development John 
Hannon as commission co-chairs. Professor of English 
and Human Computer Interaction Chris Neuwirth, 
Associate Professor of History Scott Sandage, Univer­
sity Ombudsman Everett Tademy, Student Body Vice 
President Gilbert Dussek, Student Senator Nicolette 
Louissaint, Mudge House Community Advisor Jeannie 
Choi, Graduate Student Assembly President Rob 
Reeder, and alumna Kathryn Warren rounded out our 
ten-member commission.
Commission Charge
This commission received a three-part charge. First, 
we were asked to review the production and publica­
tion of the “Natrat” and advise Dean of Student Affairs 
Michael Murphy as to whether any individual (s) should 
be brought before the University Disciplinary Commit­
tee for violation(s) of community standards. Second, 
we were to review the whole of the Tartan operations 
and recommend to the Tartan organization, university 
administration, and student government any actions 
or directions necessary to support the Tartan’s vision 
for itself as a representative voice of the student body. 
Last, we were invited to identify any broader curricular 
and metacurricular issues that the administration, fac­
ulty, staff, student government, student organizations, 
and students could address toward future achievement 
of Carnegie Mellon’s broadest vision for itself.
Commission Process
The commission convened in late April 2004 and imme­
diately focused on developing a comprehensive, factual 
understanding of the events preceding and following 
the publication of the “Natrat.” Toward that end, we 
conducted individual interviews with key members of 
the Tartan organization, including those most directly 
involved in creating the “Natrat.”
Additionally, the commission held one open meeting 
during finals week, to hear directly from any member 
of the campus community who wanted to address us. 
The comments and suggestions offered there under­
scored what was discussed at the five previous commu­
nity forums sponsored by Student Affairs, all of which 
were attended by members of the commission.
Moreover, we reached out to over forty community 
members who expressed an interest in serving as in­
formal advisors to the commission. Many of them 
provided written comments, questions to consider, or 
recommendations for our review.
In all, this process has enabled us to collect informa­
tion and opinions from a diverse group of students, 
faculty, staff, alumni, and community members who 
have informed what we believe to be our grounded un­
derstanding of (1) the facts surrounding the “Natrat”’s 
publication and (2) key issues facing the Tartan and 
the campus community.
Charge 1 : Recommendation for Judicial Action
The commission’s first charge was to advise 
the Dean of Student Affairs whether any 
potential violations of University policies 
and/or community standards had occurred 
and whether any individual (s) should be 
referred to the University Disciplinary Com­
mittee.
To this end, we first reviewed all University 
policies that related in anyway to this case, 
ranging from the policy on free speech and 
assembly to the harassment policy. We also
met with the University’s legal counsel to 
better understand individual policies and 
the judicial process as a whole.
All of this work prepared us to interview 
Tartan members who had been most directly 
involved in creating the “Natrat.” We then 
comprehensively evaluated the information 
gathered through these interviews, to assess 
whether any actions rose to a level meriting 
attention by a UDC for potential violations 
of University policy.
At Dean Murphy’s invitation, each mem­
ber of our commission made an individual 
recommendation to him in response to this 
charge, consistent with the normal practice 
employed by the Dean when seeking coun­
sel from select community members on po­
tential judicial matters. As the university 
maintains a high commitment to conducting 
a confidential judicial process, those indi­
vidual recommendations and the rationale 
informing each of them remain private; that 
said, a considerable majority of commission 
members, though not all, recommended 
against any individual judicial action.
Charge 2: Recommendations for the Tartan
The commission’s second charge was to 
make recommendations for the future of 
The Tartan. Given that some people called 
for abolishing The Tartan in the wake of the 
“Natrat” ’s publication, the commission de­
bated the question raised by some members 
of the University community as to whether 
The Tartan should have any future. An ar­
gument was made by some in the immedi­
ate wake of the incident that certain Natrat 
content was so egregious and suggested 
such deep-rooted problems in Tartan cul­
ture that it warranted the end of the stu­
dent newspaper. The commission, however, 
decided that a much stronger argument was 
made by many — and ultimately endorsed 
by student government — that The Tartan 
has played an important historical role in 
campus life as an organized voice of the 
student body. Profound issues (outlined 
below) currently weaken the organization, 
but, consistent with Carnegie Mellon’s core 
commitments to problem solving and stu­
dent learning, we agreed with the prevail­
ing community sentiment that we should 
aid The Tartan in “righting its ship” rather 
than abandoning it as a lost cause.
Based on our interviews and community 
conversations, we offer four broad catego­
ries of recommendations in response to 
challenges that we believe currently face 
The Tartan: (1) staffing, (2) training and 
advising, (3) operations, and (4) relation­
ships. All of these areas directly contributed 
to the “Natrat” incident, but they also seem 
to have compromised the Tartan organiza­
tion’s ability to reach its fullest potential in 
publishing a weekly newspaper. Put more 
simply, the April 2004 Natrat exposed prob­
lems endemic to The Tartan as a whole. The 
past and current Tartan members whom we 
interviewed generally conceded that sig­
nificant problems exist, and we are hopeful 
that Tartan members are ready to collabo­
rate with Carnegie Mellon’s administration 
and student government to solve them.
A caveat before discussing the actual rec­
ommendations: we heard from many who 
voiced concerns regarding freedom of the 
press and the dangers inherent in univer­
sity micromanagement of The Tartan. Some 
of these concerns may have stemmed from 
a proposal advanced by The Tartan itself 
immediately following the distribution of 
the “Natrat” that a “content review board” 
should be established. The recommenda­
tions which follow aim to solve fundamen­
tal problems in The Tartan’s operation; 
however, we emphasize that all decisions 
regarding the paper’s actual content need 
to be made by students, consistent with the 
University’s commitment to free speech and 
First Amendment rights.
We believe the Tartan leadership can do a 
better job in making those decisions appro­
priately, and we are confident that proper 
infrastructure, resources and support will 
empower them to do so. Editorial control, 
judiciously and rigorously exercised, can 
and must rest with students. Our recom­
mendations offer substantive areas of focus 
for the Tartan organization with the aim of 
ensuring that end, but the recommenda­
tions themselves remain at a macro level.
Staffing
Recommendation #i: The Tartan needs a 
plan for achieving “critical mass” in its level 
of staffing and personnel in order to be able 
to produce a newspaper consistent with its 
stated vision.
When all is said and done, the “Natrat” 
was ultimately compiled by three people 
working at a feverish pace to meet a 4 am
printer’s deadline on the morning of its 
release. According to these individuals, 
understaffing contributed to normal roles’ 
being abandoned and usual editorial pro­
cesses’ being disregarded. Our interviews 
with past and current Tartan staff members, 
however, clearly indicated that understaff­
ing is not unique to the “Natrat.” Marathon 
all-night production sessions consisting of 
small numbers of Tartan staff are the norm, 
not the exception. If The Tartan is to pro­
duce a newspaper of the quality and scope 
to which it aspires, its members must craft 
and implement a concrete plan for dramati­
cally growing the size of the staff actively 
engaged in its production at all levels.
Recommendation #2: The Tartan needs 
a strategy to ensure diverse membership 
reflective of our diverse campus community.
The word “diverse” not only means cultural 
diversity (though significant advances are 
needed specifically in that area) but also 
ideological and intellectual diversity in the 
breadth and depth of voices that make up 
the voice of The Tartan. In several public 
forums, many students expressed concerns 
that the editorial board did not embrace 
multiple viewpoints or represent the wide 
variety of communities on campus. The 
Tartan needs a plan for reaching out to and 
establishing ongoing relationships with a 
wide range of campus organizations and 
constituencies, toward recruiting a diverse 
array of members, writers, staffers and ul­
timately editorial staff and board members. 
Only when that goal is achieved can the 
newspaper truly claim to represent the voice 
of the student body.
Recommendation #3: The Tartan needs to 
identify and address those factors which have 
led to a high level of attrition in membership 
over the past several years.
When The Tartan transitioned leadership 
in January 2004, the staff was composed 
primarily of first-year students. A clear pat­
tern has emerged wherein students join and 
leave the newspaper in a relatively short 
time, resulting in fewer and fewer people 
with the experience necessary to lead the 
paper. While some causes of this attrition 
are not immediately clear, efforts must be 
made to identify and alleviate them.
Recommendation #4: The Tartan needs 
to re-invest in its staffers (writers and copy 
editors), many of whom report feeling 
alienated from its leadership and having 
little sense of ownership for the direction and 
quality of the paper.
One source of attrition is in fact clear: we 
heard from some former Tartan staffers who 
left the newspaper out of a sense of frustra­
tion, disillusionment and dissatisfaction 
with the leadership. We are concerned that 
there has been a profound disconnect be­
tween the leaders and the staffers, leaving 
staffers feeling that they are not members of 
The Tartan, they “just write for it.” A plan for 
organizing and developing the staff which 
cultivates ownership and investment in the 
newspaper’s direction will reduce attrition 
and help The Tartan fulfill its vision.
Training and Advising
Recommendation #5; The Tartan should 
provide comprehensive training for its 
members (particularly its new members) 
regarding journalistic best practices and 
ethics.
Even if it were true that no academic course- 
work is accessible in this area (a mispercep­
tion shared by some Tartan members), little 
has been done by The Tartan to develop this 
type of training in-house. Current training 
for new Tartan staff (grounded primarily in 
operating policies and procedures) needs to 
be expanded to embrace broad topics and 
issues relevant to the field of journalism. 
Further, we recommend that The Tartan 
construct a professional development plan 
to meet the ongoing needs of members at all 
levels of the organization.
Recommendation #6: The Tartan needs 
support in establishing and maintaining 
connections to professional journalism 
resources . (in forms such as mentors, 
associations and conferences).
Although The Tartan has in the past at­
tempted to develop these types of resources, 
more support from student government 
and University administration is needed to 
achieve and sustain them. We acknowledge 
the recent redoubling of advisory support in 
this regard within the Student Activities Of­
fice and we urge the Dean of Student Affairs 
to provide whatever additional support they 
deem necessary toward this end.
Recommendation #7: The Tartan needs 
support from comprehensive, formalized 
advisorship of a type and scope to be 
determined by The Tartan membership, 
in conjunction with Student Activities and 
student government.
The Tartan needs thoughtful day-to-day 
advisorship in the areas of journalism, pub­
lication design and production, business 
management, and organizational develop­
ment. What is of paramount importance, 
however, is that The Tartan, in concert 
with student government, adopt an advi­
sory structure that they will willingly and 
actively engage in virtually every aspect of 
the life of the paper. We recommend that 
the University provide whatever support 
The Tartan needs toward recruiting advi­
sors and achieving this goal.
Operations
Recommendation #8: The Tartan should 
develop and establish a formal set of contin­
gency plans to govern situations when normal 
operating practices (such as issue length and 
timeline for publication) cannot be followed.
As noted, Tartan members periodically find 
themselves in circumstances wherein sig­
nificant compromises of content and pro­
cess occur haphazardly in order to meet 
production deadlines. While to some extent 
such may characterize the work cycle of 
any college newspaper, extreme contingen­
cies can result in publication of material in­
consistent with the vision for the paper. To 
prevent such mishaps from recurring, we 
recommend that The Tartan develop a pro­
active set of contingency plans, formalized 
in their constitution, to govern situations 
when normal operating practices need to be 
modified.
Recommendation #9: The Tartan should 
identify and adopt a journalistic code of 
ethics.
Unlike most newspapers, The Tartan does 
not subscribe to any code of ethics. We 
strongly believe that adopting one, such as 
that provided by the Society of Professional 
Journalists (http://www.spj. org/ethics_
code.asp), will materially guide the orga­
nization in producing a better publication, 
while simultaneously alleviating negative

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN • JANUARY 10, 2005
perceptions of The Tartan’s allegedly poor re­
lationships with some members of the campus 
community.
Recommendation #10: The Tartan needs to 
articulate a clear operating vision for the paper 
which guides content creation, selection and 
publication.
The Tartan constitution outlines a reasonably 
specific process through which general and 
editorial content can ultimately come to be 
printed, but does little in the way of offering 
a clear operating vision that informs the ac­
tual decisions that are made regarding cre­
ation, development and selection of content. 
This situation (particularly when coupled 
with the aforementioned membership issues) 
leaves The Tartan open to serving merely as a 
vehicle for a small number of like-minded in­
dividuals to broadcast their viewpoint, as op­
posed to becoming a representative voice of 
the broader student body in all its diversity 
and complexity.
Recommendation #11: The Tartan needs to 
create protocols and structures to preserve an 
institutional memory.
Our interviews with former and current Tartan 
members indicate that little has been done to 
record the history of the organization (particu­
larly relative to operating procedures) and tran­
sition it from one administration to the next. In 
the absence of active advisory relationships, 
The Tartan is thus left largely unable to learn 
from the lessons of the past. We believe invest­
ment in this area will yield the organization 
significant dividends over time, particularly as 
the issues outlined in these recommendations 
are addressed in the coming weeks, months 
and years.
Recommendation #12: The Tartan would 
benefit from the formalized ongoing leadership 
and self-assessment afforded by a board of 
directors.
We encourage the Tartan leadership to revisit 
this possibility, which it has considered in the 
past. Other student organizations, notably 
radio station WRCT, have benefited immensely 
from the long-term strategic vision and orga­
nizational stability embodied in a board of 
directors. We reiterate our strong belief that 
content and editorial decisions must remain in 
the hands of students, but a thoughtfully com­
posed board can ensure that sound infrastruc­
tures and frameworks exist within which those 
decisions can be made wisely.
Recommendation #13: The Tartan needs to 
recover its financial health and devise realistic 
plans for ensuring a stable financial future.
The sizeable debt accrued by The Tartan over 
the past several years threatens the organiza­
tion. Any efforts to make The Tartan stronger 
in any area will ultimately be diminished as 
long as the paper continues to operate at a 
significant net annual deficit. We applaud the 
recent joint decision by The Tartan leadership 
and student government to restore The Tartan’s 
funded recognition status as the first step in re­
solving this situation. We now recommend that 
The Tartan, student government, and Univer­
sity administration work in concert to ensure 
that a realistic, balanced operating budget is 
developed and implemented.
Recommendation #14: Tartan culture needs to 
reassess the view that the “Natrat” is a separate 
publication/entity that falls outside The Tartan’s 
normal operating procedures.
Interviews with many Tartan leadership and
staff revealed an apparent consensus that the 
“Natrat” is a publication, in the words of one 
staffer, “where we throw out all the rules and 
do whatever we want, because it’s not The 
Tartan.” We believe this consensus implicitly 
and inappropriately abnegates the staff from 
their editorial responsibility relative to this 
satirical issue. We recommend that The Tartan 
either (a) formalize in its constitution the 
“Natrat”’s purpose and role in the context of 
normal organizational operating procedures, 
or (b) discontinue the satirical publication. 
Further, we recommend that student govern­
ment make any future financial allocation or 
subsidy for the “Natrat” contingent upon The 
Tartan’s meeting this criterion.
Relationships:
Recommendation #15: The Tartan and the 
community (particularly Carnegie Mellon 
University as an institution) need to articulate 
a jointly developed statement of the formal 
relationship between the newspaper and the 
University.
The Tartan’s masthead reads “Carnegie 
Mellon’s Student Newspaper since 1906,” yet 
we found no documentation outlining the pre­
cise relationship between “The Tartan” and 
“Carnegie Mellon University.” We find this 
situation troubling, particularly as significant 
institutional resources (financial, facility, per­
sonnel, and even institutional identity and 
name) have been expended by the University 
in support of The Tartan. We recommend that 
Student Affairs, student government and The 
Tartan cooperatively generate an agreement 
outlining each party’s roles, rights, and respon­
sibilities in the context of this relationship.
Once again, we hasten to emphasize that such 
a compact must not abridge First Amendment
rights or student editorial control of the news­
paper’s content. We are confident that a mutu­
ally beneficial clarification of this relationship 
can materially enhance The Tartan’s journalis­
tic freedom.
Recommendation #16: The Tartan needs to 
consider and address reader concerns that the 
paper has been largely disengaged from other 
student organizations and, more broadly, from 
the student experience on campus.
We conclude our recommendations with one 
that may be the most imperative to The Tartan’s 
future success. We heard again and again from 
students who had stopped reading The Tartan 
long before its 2004 edition of the “Natrat” ap­
peared. Tartan leadership has acknowledged 
its organizational drift away from service to 
readers as a key issue for the paper and, to 
address this, has created two new leadership 
positions, Executive Officer and Ombudsman. 
While this is certainly a positive step, we rec­
ommend that The Tartan develop a plan for 
engaging the student body during the upcom­
ing semester in a meaningful dialogue regard­
ing exactly what students want — and expect
— from their campus newspaper. We hope that 
The Tartan will thereby gain valuable informa­
tion to better inform and reform its vision and 
begin to mend and enhance its relationship 
with its readers.
We acknowledge that, for Tartan members, the 
prospect of implementing all of these recom­
mendations may seem daunting or overwhelm­
ing. That said, we are confident that they are 
eager to do whatever it takes to ensure the news­
paper’s success. With adequate support from 
the University community, we believe the aims 
of our recommendations can, in time, be rea­
sonably achieved, making The Tartan again a 
vibrant, stable and representative voice of the 
Carnegie Mellon student body.
Charge 3: Recommendations for the Broader Community
The commission’s third charge was to report 
on broader community issues suggested by the 
publication of and response to the “Natrat.” 
Certainly, this incident served as a lightning 
rod for many people, bringing up issues that 
lay just below the surface of the community’s 
collective consciousness and just beyond the 
reach of its daily discourse. In addition to learn­
ing about community factors that contributed 
to the publication of the “Natrat,” we heard 
from some people who described, in very per­
sonal terms, pervasive aspects of campus life 
that the “Natrat” served merely to illustrate or 
aggravate.
Here, we summarize those themes and offer 
what recommendations our small group can 
toward addressing them. Many of the issues 
below are of a scope so extensive and a na­
ture so amorphous that their resolution will 
ultimately require the work of many hands in 
many corners of the University. Our ambition 
here is merely to draw attention to those issues 
raised most vocally by some members of our 
community, and suggest potential directions 
for addressing their concerns.
Issue #1: Carnegie Mellon needs a stronger 
commitment to the broad-based education 
outlined in the University’s strategic plan in 
order to change the potentially self-fulfilling 
perception that Carnegie Mellon students are not 
well-rounded.
In the wake of the “Natrat”’s publication, 
a Pittsburgh Post-Gazette editorial cartoon 
asked, in effect, “What else would you expect 
from a Carnegie Mellon student?” By contrast, 
the first of the seven goals in the University’s 
strategic plan endorses “... expanding intellec­
tual and personal development [so that] our 
students will become broadly educated and 
humane leaders ...” This disconnect between 
perception and aspiration was underscored by 
those students, faculty and staff who shared 
their opinion that this fundamental goal of 
Carnegie Mellon’s strategic plan has not been 
substantively or universally embraced. If inte­
grating broad-based education into our largely 
professional curriculum really is our foremost 
objective, then far-reaching efforts need to be 
made by academic and administrative units to 
ensure that it is achieved.
Toward that end, we recommend that Presi­
dent Cohon convene a university-wide 
task force aimed at identifying and formalizing 
those core elements of a broad-based educa­
tion which we expect all Carnegie Mellon stu­
dents, without regard to academic discipline, 
will receive. We recognize the magnitude of 
such an undertaking given the variety of in­
dividual academic programs and the need to 
preserve their integrity, but we believe that 
only through a centralized, unifying process, 
mandated by the President, will this particular 
goal ever be fully realized.
Issue #2: Issues relating to diversity and
community are not intentionally integrated into 
the curriculum of every discipline, department 
and college at Carnegie Mellon.
This was probably the issue raised most vo­
cally and most forcefully by the community 
members who communicated with us. Simply 
put, the University needs to continue to develop 
creative ways to weave themes of diversity and 
global citizenship into all existing curriculums. 
Meaningful efforts designed to ensure that all 
coursework is presented through an appropri­
ately multifaceted lens will yield students who 
are better prepared to lead our increasingly di­
verse communities.
Issue #3: The campus community is largely 
unaware of the work of University task forces, 
committees and strategic groups around diversity 
issues.
Following the publication of the “Natrat,” 
many community members offered thought­
ful suggestions on how to improve the campus 
climate regarding diversity issues. Ironically, 
many of those suggestions reflected a lack of 
understanding of work that has already been 
initiated or completed by a number of Uni­
versity task forces, committees and strategic 
groups.
The net effect is a situation where some com­
munity members are left with the feeling that 
“nothing is being done” at the same time that 
other community members (particularly those 
in leadership positions) are actively work­
ing to address those very issues — and, very 
often, feeling that nobody is paying attention 
to their exertions. More formal, regular com­
munication to the broader campus community 
by these groups may serve to address tensions 
stemming from a perceived inaction by the 
broader University community, while inform­
ing community members of direct vehicles 
through which they might share their voice 
and perspective should they choose to do so.
Issue #4: Students are not consistently 
pushed toward (and in some cases are actually 
deterred from) expanding their intellectual and 
interpersonal horizons beyond their curricular 
focus area. That said, some students do not know 
how, or are afraid, to make use of available 
curricular and social flexibility toward the same 
end.
While a university-wide mandate to engage in 
a broad-based education would be beneficial, 
the same result could be achieved if students 
were encouraged by faculty, staff and their 
peers to diversify their coursework and experi­
ences on campus. In large measure, we heard 
from students that the opposite is more often 
the case. Discussions about exploring cur­
ricular or metacurricular arenas outside one’s 
academic major generally focus on barriers, 
challenges and trade-offs, diminishing the like­
lihood that students will engage in the genuine 
opportunities that exist within the community.
A natural place to begin addressing this issue 
would be through the network of academic ad­
visors across campus, by providing them with 
the information and resources necessary to 
assist students in engaging in experiences out­
side of their department, major, or college.
Issue #5: Students lack sufficient opportunities 
and incentives to engage socially across various 
intercultural and intracultural lines.
Despite the diversity reflected in the compo­
sition of our campus community, much less 
interpersonal interaction and engagement 
occurs between members of different cul­
tural groups (and even subgroups) than one 
would expect in a community of our size. We 
heard from many students who expressed a 
perception that undue lines demarcate and 
separate cultural groups on campus. While we 
applaud recent efforts by academic depart­
ments, student affairs, and student govern­
ment to bridge groups through an emphasis 
on cross-cultural leadership and teamwork, 
there is much that still could be done toward 
ensuring that ongoing, genuine relationships 
across cultural lines are the norm and not 
the exception.
Issue #6; Students need additional substantive 
experiences throughout the first year defining 
what it means to be an engaged member of this 
community.
Beyond the confines of Orientation Week pro­
grams, first-year students would benefit from 
receiving more orientation to the values of our 
community and the expectations incumbent 
upon them as members. In particular, first- 
year students would be well served by clearly 
defined experiences designed to cultivate their 
investment in the continuous improvement of 
the community on campus. Toward that end, 
we recommend that Student Affairs partner 
with academic units to create an environment 
in the first year that emphasizes further civic 
engagement and community investment.
Issue #7: Formal and informal vehicles for 
communication about campus opportunities 
and issues are missing.
While most would consider Carnegie Mellon 
a “well-networked” campus, the decentralized 
nature of the University calls for an environ­
ment in which students, faculty and staff are 
better informed about current opportunities 
and issues that have the potential to enhance 
and/or challenge community development. 
This knowledge would ultimately lead to 
greater investment in the life of the commu­
nity broadly-defined. Ongoing expansion of 
electronic initiatives such as the web portal 
will help address this issue, and we encour­
age the University to continue to create and 
deploy other mechanisms that ensure that all 
members of our community are well informed 
about the core “issues of the day.”
Issue #8: The role of the Carnegie Mellon Code 
in informing and governing the life of the campus 
community is unclear.
The Code, printed in The Word, articulates 
the philosophy and application of University 
policies on student conduct. Some community 
members argued that the publication of the 
“Natrat” violated the Code, and in exploring 
that position, we struggled to understand how, 
exactly, the Code is directly connected to spe­
cific University policies. We recommend that 
student affairs convene a task force to examine 
and review the Code, its role in judicial mat­
ters, and its relationship to the actual body of 
University policy.
Issue #9: Interactions between community 
members could better reflect the basic human 
values of civility and respect.
Carnegie Mellon can be a very task-oriented 
environment that places a high premium on 
hard work. This hallmark of our institution, 
though, contributes to a culture which at 
times undervalues interpersonal relationships 
founded on civility and respect. Some commu­
nity members in public forums recounted per­
sonal stories reflecting that fact, and one need 
look no further than the campus electronic 
bulletin board system (e.g., cmu.misc.market) 
to see examples of inappropriate and even hos­
tile discourse.
In no way do we believe speech can or should 
be regulated, but as an institution we can and 
should do a better job educating community 
members about the values of civility and re­
spect and their role in enhancing the work that 
we do. We recommend that faculty and staff 
find ways to emphasize these values in arenas 
ranging from curriculum development to indi­
vidual interactions with students.
The above issues and recommendations 
broadly summarize what we heard from the 
campus community as our commission con­
ducted its work. The degree to which these 
issues did or did not contribute to the publica­
tion of the “Natrat” is open to interpretation. 
Clearly, however, this set of issues impressed 
us as meriting thoughtful consideration by 
our entire community. Addressing them will 
not necessarily prevent future incidents, but 
will hopefully have the net effect of advanc­
ing the University’s strategic goal of educat­
ing leaders who have courage to act, [are] 
sensitive to the needs and feelings of others, 
understand and value diversity, and honor 
the responsibilities that come with special­
ized knowledge and power.” In following a 
most unfortunate incident with this type of 
community investment by students, faculty 
and staff, we will once again show our met­
tle as a community, responding to difficulty 
by embracing the opportunities it highlights 
for further growth and development on our 
path of excellence.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN • JANUARY 10, 2005
Franklin Williams
Managing Editor
When I arrived at Carnegie Mellon in 2002,1 noticed a pervasive atmo­
sphere of disdain and negativity toward The Tartan. I felt it strange that 
students could be so angry toward a student newspaper and its report­
ing. What concerned me most, though, was that rather than help to make 
it better, it seemed that most people would rather ignore it entirely.
I joined The Tartan in the spring of 2004, the semester of the 
“Natrat” publication. What I realized was that The Tartan consisted 
of an extremely dedicated group of individuals trying to resuscitate a 
troubled publication to give it a newer, more student-friendly spin.
Unfortunately, due to lack in judgment, the “Natrat” was published 
in its final — and ultimately shoddy — form. Many were hurt, some 
were appalled, and, ultimately, The Tartan closed its doors. A great 
injustice had been done to the community, and it needed to be fixed.
In the past semester, The Tartan has made many changes in the right 
direction. From rewriting our constitution to revamping our staff and 
giving our publication protocols a complete overhaul, we have been 
trying to ensure that we will never experience another incident like 
the “Natrat” ever again.
We appreciate the report published by the Tartan Commission and 
have taken their recommendations very seriously. As we move for­
ward into next semester and our next publication cycle, we continue 
to refer to their document as a source of recommendation as to what 
The Tartan should value and consider important within itself. We also 
appreciate the members of the commission for all the work they have 
put forward and the time they have spent in order to help us get our 
organization back on its feet.
The Tartan took the Commission’s report to heart. A task force was 
arranged in order to go through the report, charge by charge, in order 
to address the issues at hand. Through meetings with the Commission, 
we have come to a general agreement on what is appropriate and what 
should be done.
I am still bothered, though, by the general response of the University 
towards the report. Charge 3 of the Tartan Commission Report is aimed 
toward the campus community and the general attitude of members of 
the campus towards each other. It seems, though, that the report as a 
whole has been generally ignored. A great deal of this problem may be 
attributed to the fact that the report itself is very difficult to find and 
was never physically distributed out on campus.
This issue is being published in order to provide our readers with an 
idea of The Tartan’s progression over the past semester. We are pub­
lishing a full copy of the Commission’s report in this special issue, in 
the hope that it will be read and used to its full extent. Also included 
is our open letter to the community on what you, as a reader, should 
expect from The Tartan.
Our hope is that the University will appreciate the work both The 
Tartan and the Commission have done toward repairing ties with the 
community and the administration, and encourage the student body to 
help us move towards a better paper.
Kristina Wiltsee
Ombudsman
When I first decided to get involved with the Tartan, I was as skeptical 
as the next person regarding the future of the paper, even with all the 
new changes being implemented. After all, it is easy to set up the found­
ations for change but much harder actually to rebuild a solid institution 
from an organization that many believed or wished to be rubble.
Myjob this past fall semester as Ombudsman was to listen to the griev­
ances of individuals who had problems with any aspect of the paper. I 
am continuing in my position as Ombudsman in this spring semester 
because I feel that more can be done. I wish not only to be an ear for the 
Tartan but to engage the community as a member of the organiza­
tion.
With the start of this new semester, every member of this campus is 
being given an opportunity: a chance to take all that we have learned 
and turn it into something better. The Tartan will take whatever form 
will serve the community best. Whether it is a simply a source of 
reporting or becomes a forum for initiating community discussion and 
involvement is up to the students.
The Tartan Commission’s suggestions regarding the broader com­
munity need to be addressed. This is because they could affect the 
daily lives of students, and we, as students, must be involved in that 
process. After all, what is your opinion on incorporating education 
that would help students be more well-rounded, particularly involv­
ing diversity and community? Maybe even more importantly, why 
does this initiative need to come from the administration and not from 
the students? Shouldn’t we want to have “interpersonal relationships 
founded on civility and respect” and to “engage socially across inter- 
cultural and intercultural lines”? If not, why?
Expressing your opinion is as easy as writing a letter to the editor in 
e-mail. Suddenly, you will have engaged in the broader community.
Students should no longer be surfeited with the concept of diversity 
at orientation and then never stay long enough to live and experi­
ence it. This is a problem in our community of which our interactions 
can no longer skim the surface. The Commission’s report makes 
bold statements to this effect in addressing the community at large
— statements with which many of us would agree — but we still seem 
to be content with maintaining the status quo.
When passing stacks of papers on campus or hearing about forum 
events, it is easy to simply ignore them and pass by. However, once 
you step into the mentality of involvement, you are often in it for the 
long haul. Many people choose not to take that step. But involvement 
is as easy as picking up that paper, or attending that forum. Hard 
work is the basic tenet of any individual in this community, so using 
that energy to work towards a elevated level of community interaction 
seems well worth the effort. The Tartan can become an instrument 
for greater involvement in and reflection of the community; we invite 
each individual reader to join us in that task.
From the Desk of University 
President Jared Cohon
COHON, from A1
Our GenEd program should be a clear statement by the University on 
what we think all students should know and be exposed to by the time 
they graduate. This is where the consideration of the curricular issues 
raised by the Commission belongs.
Your thoughts about any aspect of the above are welcome. You can 
e-mail me (cohon@andrew.cmu.edu) or Vice Provost Indira Nair 
(in0a@), who chairs the UEC. Also look for forums and other discus­
sions that will be held around the University.
The “Natrat” was a low point for Carnegie Mellon’s diversity efforts. 
I am determined to continue to learn from the incident and to make 
the University better. Please join me.
From CMU Dean of Student Affairs Michael Murphy
MURPHY, from A1
messages outlined in the 
Tartan Commission’s report 
and to drive the awareness 
of and commitment to the 
enormous potential we hold. 
Together, we are exception­
ally talented, hard-charging 
and uniquely committed 
to having an impact in this 
world. An apt description of 
both the place and the peo­
ple, it amplifies the need for
any boundary, any barrier to 
that impact, to be battered 
down in the name of, and by 
way of, true engagement at 
all levels.
In the individual depart­
ments of student affairs, we 
have had the opportunity 
to venture point by point 
through the Tartan Commis­
sion report, notably those 
core recommendations in 
Charge 3. By asking what 
each of us can do to address
these issues, in efforts large 
and small, we have affirmed 
our commitment in some 
historic areas and found 
new ways to move forward. 
Talking is one thing. Having 
the resulting action make 
an impact is the critical di­
mension against which we 
must judge as the months
— indeed, years — unfold. It 
is an exploration of potential 
that I would encourage all 
to undertake, not in bureau­
cratic fashion, but on a deep­
ly personal level. It can be a 
major initiative to reshape or 
reinvigorate. It can be a mo­
ment, a gesture, or a turn of 
phrase. Each of us will walk 
these halls for only a brief 
period in the grand scheme, 
but no day is without its op­
portunities to make the lives 
of those around us, and 
thereby our own, more full 
of the promise our shared 
values demand.
From Bradford L. Yankiver, Executive Officer
YANKIVER, from A1
student turnover; and we 
are developing a new web­
site to make our publication 
more accessible.
In the creation of last 
year’s April Fool’s edition, 
our organization failed our 
readership, due to a prob­
lem from which the whole 
community suffers: we were 
not adequately open to and 
respectful of the beliefs 
and values of other people. 
Building a diverse commu­
nity means doing so on all 
fronts. We must strive to 
show respect for difference 
in ethnicity, faith, gender, 
sexual orientation, socio­
economic background, po­
litical persuasion, scholastic 
interest, and all other forms 
of individuality.
The collective knowledge 
and experience of the indi­
viduals who make up the 
Carnegie Mellon commu­
nity is immeasurable. We 
can learn endlessly, sim­
ply by interacting with one 
another. We stand to gain 
more than we can conceive 
by fostering openness to 
and respect for each other’s 
differences.
Having faced the conse­
quences of passivity in ap­
proaching diversity, the 
leadership of The Tartan 
knows that to serve our 
community effectively we 
must foster pluralism in our 
organization. In the past 
semester we have made im­
portant efforts to engage 
the community, but we have 
not yet done enough. In the 
coming semesters, The Tar-
tan will continue to lead by 
example. We will strive to 
internalize the principles of 
openness and respect, and 
we will be more active in ex­
tending ourselves to groups 
which have previously been 
underrepresented on our 
staff. Furthermore, we will 
encourage discussion of 
diversity-related issues in 
Forum, the opinions and 
editorials section of The 
Tartan.
Underpinning our efforts 
to address the issue of diver­
sity, The Tartan’s staff and I 
are dedicated to developing 
a stronger, more robust news 
organization. We intend to 
develop lines of communica­
tion that reach throughout 
this University’s student or­
ganizations and its academic 
and administrative depart­
ments. We are developing 
a comprehensive training 
program, which will instruct 
Tartan staff members on our 
organization’s values, jour­
nalistic ethics, and various 
trade skills — writing, inves­
tigation, interviewing, pho­
tojournalism, broadsheet 
and tabloid design, layout, 
management, and leader­
ship techniques.
I take on the role of The 
Tartan’s Executive Officer 
with great enthusiasm. My 
predecessor, Mark Egerman, 
led The Tartan to a semester 
of great improvement, and 
helped the organization gain 
momentum that will guide 
us into this semester. I am 
honored to serve the com­
munity in this manner, and 
to help The Tartan to realize 
its vast potential.
From The Tartan’s 
former Executive Officer
EGERMAN, from A1
This task force met weekly 
and grew to be so large that 
I split it in half. Each of the 
two groups sat down with 
me and discussed one or 
two of the Commission’s 
recommendations. I asked 
both senior members of The 
Tartan’s staff and younger 
members who were inter­
ested in The Tartan’s fu­
ture to participate in these 
discussions. I learned from 
them the paper’s history and 
the staffs own goals for the 
paper. Following these meet­
ings, I would decide on a 
course of action in response 
to these recommendations 
and discuss that with the en­
tire editorial staff.
These meetings helped 
guide The Tartan in a new 
direction. The Commission’s 
report provided a significant 
baseline upon which we 
could discuss the problems 
of the organization and 
ways to address them. As a 
result, I feel proud that we 
were able to directly address 
some of the recommenda­
tions. The Tartan more than 
doubled its staff, created an 
environment which reduced 
turnover, and invested heav­
ily in our staff. We focused 
on internal development 
and training and worked so 
that our staff felt like they
had a voice within the orga­
nization. Our finances were 
stronger last semester than 
they have been in years, and, 
while all the checks aren’t in 
yet, it appears that we were 
able to balance our budget 
for the first time in quite a 
while. We held an open fo­
rum for the community to 
talk about issues related to 
The Tartan, and our Om­
budsman took an active role 
in soliciting input from the 
community. Finally, we met 
with Commission members 
at the end of the semester 
to talk about some of the 
changes we had made and 
our plans to continue this 
work in the future.
The Tartan has changed 
a lot in one semester, and I 
truly believe it’s one of the 
most exciting places to work 
on campus. While we focused 
on the commission’s second 
charge, I personally hope 
that the campus community 
will eventually perform a 
similar reflection with re­
gard to the third. Just as The 
Tartan benefited from a seri­
ous look at its faults, so too 
would the community grow 
from a serious approach to 
its problems. The Tartan has 
come a long way and still has 
a long way to go. It is time 
for the campus as a whole to 
look at Charge 3 and begin 
to discuss it seriously.
From the new Editor-in- 
Chief of The Tartan
TROLLMAN, from A1
tion over the past semester. 
For those with talent and 
dedication for personal 
growth, I am convinced 
that there is now no better 
place for students to go to 
than their own student-run 
newspaper.
Short-term goals are not 
enough, though. One of the 
problems that every stu- 
dent-run organization has 
to face is that of “organiza­
tional memory”: as differ­
ent students cycle through 
every four years, the com­
position and mentality of a 
group can change dramati­
cally. When the right goals 
and structural behaviors 
are not passed down, this 
change can often be for 
the worse.
We want to address this 
issue of organizational 
memory directly. As per 
suggestions by the com­
mission and discussions 
within The Tartan’s edito­
rial board, this semester we 
will begin to look into estab­
lishing a Board of Directors 
with participation from the 
University’s administration 
and faculty, as well as pre­
vious editors of The Tartan 
and general members of 
the journalistic community. 
This group will serve not 
to oversee content or plan
organizational decisions, 
but to ease transitions and 
maintain a solid organiza­
tional memory for years to 
come. The history of The 
Tartan cannot be gleaned 
simply by paging through its 
archives, and such a board 
would help create a solid 
foundation upon which we 
can build every year.
The last point I will touch 
upon is addressed directly 
with the letter of intent that 
you see printed on the front 
page. Every journalistic 
outlet should have a set of 
guidelines that aid its writ­
ing and practices. This list 
is the beginning of that re­
newed commitment. In the 
coming months, we will use 
training sessions to reaffirm 
these points with our staff; 
and we will also bring pro­
fessional journalists from 
the Pittsburgh area into the 
office on a bi-weekly basis.
I’m confident that The 
Tartan is growing once 
again to assume its role as 
a cornerstone of this cam­
pus community. We are a 
source that strives to serve 
you with the most interest­
ing and relevant informa­
tion possible. And we are a 
source that you can trust. 
On a personal level, this is 
truly an achievement; but as 
an organization, it’s monu­
mental. And it’s about time.
THE TARTAN®
Onmpcrio MPllnn c Rinnoni Noinchnhor .\inro innfiCarnegie Mellon’s Student Newspaper Since 1906
BRADFORD YANKIVER 
Executive Officer
J.T. TROLLMAN 
Editor-in-Chief
EDITORIAL STAFF
FRANKLIN WILLIAMS, Managing Editor 
JEAN EUN, Advertising Manager 
GREG PRICHARD, Comics Editor 
AMANDA FLYNN, Pillbox Editor 
CHRISTIAN DANDREA, Sports Editor 
DANIELLE SAUDINO, Art Editor 
NICK POZEK, Dossier Design Editor 
EVAN SUNDWICK, Production Manager
ERIN GOLDBERGER, Asst. Forum Ed. 
BRITTANY McCANDLESS, Asst. News Ed. 
WENYING WU, Asst. Layout Mgr.
JACKIE BROOK, Forum Editor 
ALEXANDRA KILDUFF, News Editor 
ROBERT KAMINSKY, Photo Editor 
ARTHUR O’DWYER, Copy Manager 
ALEXANDER MESEGUER, Layout Manager 
MARK EGERMAN, Personnel Manager 
KRISTINA WILTSEE, Ombudsman 
JIM PULS, Online Editor
MICHELLE BIRCHAK, Asst. Managing Ed. 
KANISHKA MAHESHWARI, Asst. Bus. Mgr.
RAN LIU, Asst. Advertising Mgr.
The Tartan is a student newspaper at 
Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part 
by the Student Activities Fee. It is a weekly 
publication by students during the fall and 
spring semesters, printed by Valley News 
Dispatch, Inc. The Tartan is not an official 
publication of Carnegie Mellon University. 
The first issue is free; subsequent issues 
cost $0.50 at the discretion of The Tartan. 
Subscriptions are available on a per semes­
ter basis.
Letters in this issue are the opinions of their 
authors. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves 
the right to withhold from publication any 
copy it deems unfit.
Comments about and suggestions 
for The Tartan and notices of errata 
should be directed to The Tartan's 
independent Ombudsman at 
ombudsman@thetartan.org.
© 2005 The Tartan, all rights reserved. 
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107
Office: University Center room 314 
Phone: (412) 268-2111 
Advertisements: (412) 268-2113 
Fax: (412) 268-1596 
Mail:
The Tartan / Box 1017 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15289-1017 
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
