j ANNUAL CARNEGIE 
EXHIBITION
! FRIDAY7:30 P. M.
DORM COUNCIL 
TEA DANCE 
FRIDAY 4:00-6:00 P. M.
VOL. XXII NO. 29CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH. PA.TUESDAY, APRIL 17, 1928
CAST CHOSEN FOR 
“WEDDING BELLS”
CAMPUS WEEKSH0W
Student Director
Irene Tedrow and Cam Young 
Will Carry Leads; Stage 
Sets are Being Constructed
TO PRESENT PLAY AT 
GAYETY THREE NIGHTS
Tickets Are Now on Sale; All Or­
ders Should be Sent in Early
Tlie cast for the campus Week 
Show was cliosen last Friday after­
noon at the-final reading of “Wedding 
Bells-’ held in the Arts Theater. Miss 
Irene Tedrow and Carlton Young were 
chosen to carry the juvenile leads; 
and the other principles are to be por­
trayed by Margaret Werts, Florence 
Wakefield, Ruth Aston, Thomas 
Lewis, Frank Sullivan, Newton Cowan 
and William McDermott. Rehearsals 
are starting this week under the di­
rection of Chester Wallace of the 
Drama Department.
In spite of the fact that their ap­
pointments came rather late, the pro­
ducers, Misses Ellen Michie and Mar­
jorie Bartholomew have preparation^ 
well under way. Everything points 
to one of the best Campus Week pro­
ductions in years. John Walker, 
sophomore in the department of Dra­
ma, .has been appointed stage mana­
ger for the show, and is well qualified 
for the appointment. Irma Weinberg 
and Burtt McKee have been placed in 
charge of the properties, and Abe 
Feder will produce the lighting ef-
Public Will Learn to Fry Eggs and Fix
Bells on Carnegie Exhibition Night
WALTER POYNTZ
Thistle Now At The 
Printers; Released for 
Distribution May 15
On Friday night Carnegie will hold 
its annual Open House to the dear 
public, fond parents, best girls, and 
just plain relatives. Carnegie is busy 
cleaning up and getting ready for its 
yearly exhibition to snow the citizens 
of Allegheny county what it has accom­
plished during the year, and how she 
prepares her students to go forth and
Class. Fritz, the gardener, is also 
seriously contemplating placing “Stay 
off the Walk" \signs to combat the 
well-known perversity of the tax­
payers.
The evening will bo marked by tho 
usual parents seeking children, stu­
dents dodging parents, teachers wear­
ing smiles, and dramats displaying 
temperament.v*. .j I-,.. ‘ j-l 11I auiuil L.
astound tlie world, tlx electric bolls. I The entertainment will bo Curtailed 
fry eggs, or recite “Little Orphan An-j by the music department^ whose mem- 
nle.” ; hers will he giveii the customary ova-
Book Contains Thousand Dol­
lar Campus Scene Section, 
Plus Originality
After a great deal of work, organiz­
ing, planning, obtaining of material, 
and what not-, the Thistle is now on
the press. It has been predicted by
substantial authority that this year 
book will be distributed on or near 
May 15. It may be of interest to Car- 
fects. All the crews are busily en- j ne£ie' students and alumni that this 
gaged in their particular preparations. I book has been classed as one oE the 
For the last week work has been car- j ^est year books in American colleges
ried on in Langley Lab where thelan(^ universities. The greatest fea-
sets for the play are being constructed. Iture *-he book *s the originality and 
The play “Wedding Bells” was 1 color effect that is found throughout, 
written by Salisburg Field, and is pro-1 Starting from the cover, which has 
duced under arrangements with Sam-1 an exceedingly dark blue color, one 
uel French. The plot contains some j finds at the opening an olive green 
very interesting complications,^ and \ silhouette of a campus scene. The 
with ita wealth of comedy and humor j first main section is one of amazing 
promises to bo a very efijoyable pA>- i beauty. It contains series of campus 
duction. ¡scenes reproduced from oil’ paintings
“Al” Brown and his committees are. I in their exact colors. This section is 
completing their arrangements, and being placed in the Thistle at a cost 
all' bids fair to make the show an out-j of one thousand dollars: Throughout
standing financial success.
For the visitors’ benefit, our cam­
pus citizens will demonstrate how to 
break test tubes, make mud pies, 
draw conclusions, and take shorthand 
notes almost as fast as they can be 
written in longhand.
Word already has gone out that 
students are to try not to sleep more 
than an hour on Exhibition Night; and 
to achieve this result the faculty has 
arranged that most classes that night 
will be laboratory classes. By keep­
ing the undergraduates on their feet, 
they hope to keep everyone awake, in­
cluding commercials.
The authorities are considering 
strengthening the walls and doors of 
the Arts Building, in anticipation of 
the jam to gain admission to Life
tions by admiring friends, and will be 
subject to quips by clever young men 
as to a report about a barkers’ strike. 
The drama department will also re­
ceive hearty applause by an onthrallod 
audience, which will admire their dic­
tion but wonder “what in the ’ell 
they’re talking about.”
After the affair is over the authori­
ties will make a sensational announce­
ment to the effect that the affair was 
highly successful and the number of 
visitors larger than it had ever been 
before; professors will wipe the smiles 
off their faces, and relax into their 
grouches; the Dean will apply Sloan’s 
liniment to his right arm; and every­
body settle down to hard work..........
ha! ha!
BETTY McFADDEN 
ELECTED QUEEN OF 
NINTH ANNUAL C. W.
Coronation Ceremony ¦ Will 
Be Held on Machinery Hall 
Steps at 9, Preceding Dance
PAGEANT TO BECOME 
PERMANENT AFFAIR
1931 PLEBE PROM FAILS 10 
COME UP 10 STANDARD
Exemption Cards Were Given Out 
at Gym Following Plebe 
Promenade.
The annual Plebe Prom Is a thing 
of the past. Last Tuesday the Cam­
pus re-echoed to the sounds of merri­
ment from the spectators along the
GLEE CLUB-P.C.W. CLUB 
GIVE JOINT CONCERT
Very Successful Season Completed 
By Club; Continued Growth Seen
BETTY McFADDEN
Annual “Open House” 
This Friday, April 20 
Finds Carnegie Host
Will Exhibit Work in Every 
Shop, Studio and Lab. 
of Four Schools
Last Friday ovening the Carnegie 
Glee Club was the guest of tho Girls’ 
Glee Club of Pennsylvania Colloge for 
Women in a joint concert hold in the 
auditorium on the P. C. W. Campus.
original but on the whole? the cos­
tumes wore too plainly the work of 
the last minute and they looked it. 
The Army would have refused to It was one finds a three-color effect on nil ; evlm Iook ,lt ,he mrry spectacles dis- 
previously announced that the show | the main section title pages, and aj^iayea bofore the eyes 
¦would be produced only two evenings jj two-color effect on all the subtitle -j gambled spectators, 
as had been the custom in the past, i pages. Every page will have! a sil- \ 
but since the dates of Campus Week j houette band across the top. One 
have been changed, the committee de- j marked feature of this year’s book is
route of the parade. Twenty-seven splendid program was presented by 
lucky Plebes were excused from Reg- J th^ two clubs to the appreciative an­
imations becarfise/of the widest popu- J dionce attending the concert.. Pol*, 
larlty of their costumes. .lowing the musical program a danqe
Eight men from tlie Science and h™8 ,ho,1"' »< 1110 '"embers or
Industries Freshmen Class, nix men j 1 WBrB Kuest.s.
and five women from Arts, and eight i r^10 (:ln*3 under tho leadership of 
women from Margaret. Morrison were falter J. Poyntz, brought credit, to 
excused from Regulations. Many of j ^ttielf in reestablishing tho old cus 
tho costumes were quite unique and J -m - For sovoral years tin* Joint
concert with P. (!. W. has not been 
held, hut with the gradual improve­
ment of tho club since its reorgani­
zation in tho fall of 192(5, tho clul)
of the
Several costumes attracted uni 
i versal attention. Among the most 
,, , , , , , , i.. . , „ . . . popular costumes or ensembles wereelded to have the show produced | the omission of the customary or so- b,llhlnR beauties, scarecrow»,,three nights. Student night will be called traditional thistles and Scotch-1
men that have always been in the 
former Carnegie year books. No one 
can really visualize the beauty of this 
book, and give it full justice in their
is resuming its former place on tho 
campus. With this concert tho club 
completes a very successful soason. 
Besides the many appearances in 
outlying cities and the churches of 
Pittsburgh, the club made a three- 
day trip to Erie and Westfield this 
spring, and took second honors In the 
Intercollegiate Glee Club contest.
At. the close of last year the period 
Margaret Morrison Plebes carried ofT ( »f probation for tho club ended, and
the honors for the best girls cos-: due to a very notable improvement In
tumes while Science and Industries 'he fcharacter of llio organization, the
carried olT the men’s prizes. ¡club was permitted to continue Its ae-
Tlie clown band was mcniocre and
tickets should be secured for that per-1 students have not given their ordgjfj 1"-!^ : Promises to reach a place’of promi-
formance. The committee has kept j for this year’s Thistle, as yet, and Is J loolco'd well The coarse element* of * nencc among tho best college clubs
on Friday night as was previously de­
cided, but the opening performance 
will be given on Thursday night. The 
plans for tlie usual matinee and even-
a monkey and an organ grinder, re­
versible twins, a souvenir collector, 
and several female aspirants. The
ing performance on Saturday will j comments or conversations concern- j 
stand. It sliould be understood, how-: ing it unless they have actually seen ; 
ever, that the performance on Friday! the book.
night is for the student body, and ! The sales staff realized that many
the price of tickets the same as last | planning to hold a sales campaign in! 
year. Box seat tickets will be sold ¡order to provide an opportunity for
for $2.00, first floor and balcony front j those students to obtain one. Every
$1.75, and balcony rear $1.25. ATI the ! Wednesday until the book is finally 
fraternities wishing to secure seats 1 finished, there .will be stationed in all 
in groups should place their orders as I tlie corridors of the respective build- 
Continued on Page Five.) i ings salesmen to whom an order for
------------------------------------- " ¡the book may be given. The Only ad-
Scabbard and Blade to Give ^‘-t^
Smoker to R, 0. T. C. Men!‘;lte t0 get °“e- There wlu be a lim-
I of tho east. Much is due to the work 
I Harvey B. Gaul, director of the club.humor was evident in too many of 
the costumes. The Plebes are mere- ,, lv showing up their own lack of ¡ %c6 securing his services at the 
originality in not being able to find . ime a '** «organization, flu, club 
something better. Tlie class of .31 ¡ has enjoyed ;a ;con lnual advancement, 
was quite disappointing in its pre-' "ls c>'01^. of muRil; "" wul1 “« Mlt ln'paration for the annual affair. The ! terpretat!«,, «..... careful coaching,
class has set high marks in other ! >mvo me:ml morn to Lhe «l«» Iban eau
I lines of . endeavor but they failed tobe realized. Last fall only a few of
On Friday evening, April 27, a 
smoker will be given to all R. O. T. 
C. men by Scabbard and Blade, hon­
orary military society. All members j 
of the R. O. T. C. are cordially in-; 
vited and all are promised a good \ 
time ‘by the committee.
jited number printed and no addition- 
als for late orders. Avoid being dis­
appointed and get your order now.
FIRM REPRESENTATIVES TO
BE HERE FOR INTERVIEWS
The Union Carbide and Carbon
i the old men returned, and it' was 
i with difficulty that sufficient good 
i material could be secured t.o fill the
impress last Tuesday. The girls’ cos­
tumes were much more representa­
tive of the class of students one 
would expect to find at Carnegie.
The excellent conducting of the.; The retiring leaders of the club al- 
whole. affair was due to the careful | so are to be commended for the splen- 
preparation of the committee in ! did season which the club has en- 
charge composed of: Jean Mather, j Joyed. Wilbur A. Scott, member of 
Mark F. Seibert, Fenton Finn, Al phi Mu Alpha, who managed the club 
Brown, and chairman Fred Woods. ; for the past year and a half, espec-
beenThe event will he held in the 1 ComPan>' of New York City will be | A careful chcck Of the class roles is tally deserves credit. He has
ind is scheduled tn start it fi-on r> ; reP>'esented by R. L. Lomkin who will be)]1K ma(le anl ttll p|ebes who could ¡actively connected with the club for
As fs customary at Smokers there J56 h"e “ay, Alf ,26' oven don half an army uniform tour years serving as accompanist
Will he nle„t„ of smokes and eats here he wlU interview Seniors in both and a pair of overalls will be penal- during his first two years. Last yearthe Mechanical and Chemical Engin-: ;zeci ti1p next Plebe affair will be i at the resignation of Al Nern, he wasThere will also be movies and several . : , • • . izeu. me next j <uicui wm uc ^ .eering department. the Qualifications Ceremony, the ! elected to complete the term of office,
W. C.Quimbyand his assistants will j first day of Campus Week. ! and at the annual election of officers
be here April 18 and 19 for final in- The class of ’31 should support j was unanimously re-elected for this
terview/3 with Electrical, Commercial, j this affair better and regain some of j year. He graduates this year in
and Mechanical Engineering, Seniors their lost prestige. Tho following Public School Supervision.
stunts. No charge will be made and 
tickets will be distributed at- drill 
next Thursday noon.
This smoker is the first of its kind 
and is given as a reward for the ex­
cellent support accorded Scabbard 
and Blade at the military ball by the 
members of the R. O. T. C. The mem­
bers of the committee in charge of 
the affair are C. F. McKee, chairman; 
W. M. McNeill and D. S. Dieffen- 
bacher.
and- Works Management Seniors,
R. D. Kresge of the S. S. Kresge 
Company, of Detroit, Michigan, will 
be here April 26 and 27 to interview 
Commercial Seniors and others inter­
ested in retail merchandising.
* CAMPUS WEEK CONCESSION 
*> BIDS DUE BEFORE APRIL 21
, All those desiring to make bids - 
k- on Campus Week concessions 1 
*:* must have the same in the hands ¦ 
* of "Spooks” Seibert before Sat- 
•!* urday, April 21. Bids should be 
?J* addressed Mr. Seibert care of 
v Tartan Office, Carnegie Institute 
of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa.
M. M. ALUMNAE DINNER DANCE 
AT UNIVERSITY CLUB APR. 21
The Margaret Morrison Alumnae 
Association will give a formal Dinner 
Dance at the University Club on Sat­
urday, April 21 r at 7 p. m. All Carne­
gie Alumnae are invited to attend and 
to bring a guest. Reservations aro 
now'- being received by Mrs. Mary Ege 
Ewart, chairman,-at. 802 Ross avenue, 
Wilkinsburg, Pa. Bridge ( is also be­
ing planned for those who do not care 
to dance.
Mrs. Mary Ege Ewart, the chairman, 
is a 1919 Margaret Morrison graduate.
men and women are to be commend- Walter J. Poyntz, student director 
ed upon their originality in at least j during the past year, set a high stand- 
making some preparation for the an- (Continued on Page Five.)
nual promenade. ; ' ~
Those excused from Regulations j MR. CLARK ELECTED PRES.
(Continued on Page Five)OF COLLEGE NEWS BUREAU
MEN’S DORMITORY COUNCIL 
TO HOLD TEA DANCE IN UNION
Mr. Ralph S. Clark, Manager of the 
News Bureau of Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, has been elected Presi- 
At l.ast, another tea dance! Thurs- ! dent of College News Bureau, at. a 
day, April 19, in the Union from 4:30 convention held at Cincinnati; John 
till 6:00. Dancing to a poular or- D. Dccamp of the University of Cin- 
cheatra is promised by the Men’s elnnafci was elected vice president and 
Dormitory Council under whoso L. B. Smelser/ Vanderbilt University, 
auspices the tea dance is being given, j Nashville, secretary and treasurer. 
This tdance is an annual affair, and , Mr. Clark has been very active In
Besides the regular demonstra­
tions of every department, in opera­
tion, there will be m,any special fea-, 
¿lires this year at Exhibition night, 
this Friday, April 20, from 7:30 to 
10:30 in all schools of the Carnegie 
Insttute of Technology. Tho Exhibi­
tion is the twenty-second of its kind 
to be hold at Carnegie.
Spocial .foat.ure exhibits announced 
include a now brick bungalow built 
by students of building construction 
in the masonry and bricklaying shop; 
and exhibition of advertising by 
thirty Pittsburgh firms that ¿ooperato 
in tho Instructional program of tho 
Department of Commercial Engineer­
ing; the mine tunnel and mining en­
gineering Jaboratorlos under the 
Hclonce Building; tho newly organ­
ized department of automobile main- j 
t.onanco and operation in a section 
of the Commons; short, plays by tho 
Department of Drama and ,1’oaitals by I 
students of the Department of Music 
in the theater of the College of Fine 
Arts; new painting and drawing 
studios in the Department of Paint­
ing and Docoratlon In the Colloge of | 
Fine Arts; and tho enlarged Do-j 
partment of Printing in tho College 
of Industries. Margaret Morrison 
Kiris in tho costumo oconomies de­
partment will display hats, gowns, I 
coats and children's clothing they 
huvo made during tho year. Plans, 
paintings and sketches, models, 
prints and Engineering drawings • will 
be shown respectively by tho depart­
ments of Architecture, Painting and 
Decoration, Sculpture, Printing and 
Engineering. Laboratory experiments 
of electrical phenomena in Machinery 
Hall will be oT interest, together wit.li 
scientific experiments by students 
in the laboratories of the Colleges /of 
Engineering and Industries, and field 
work exhibits by the students of the 
Reserve Officers’ Training Corps.
In the reBt room In the men’s gym 
provided |iy the Institute for visitors, 
the Kiltie Band will give concerts. A 
radio has laso been installed for en­
tertainment of the guests. From 
8:00 to 9:00 the members of the 
varsity sv/imming team will give ex­
hibitions of fancy diving in the 
gymnasium pool.
There are indications, that a crowd 
of between 20,090 and 25,000 visitors 
will attend this “open house.” Spe-. 
cial guides will be provided in every 
building to take people around to 
the different departments on tours, 
organized to / include every floor of 
the four colleges. In order to . ac­
commodate the vast numbers of 
those who visit here annually, the 
time of these tours will be divided in 
two equal parts, the earlier coming 
approximately between 7:30 and 9:00 
o'clock and the later .coming between 
9:00 and 10:30 o'clock. In many de­
partments two shifts of students 
have been asked to attend to aid in 
the display. Those who do not come 
(Continued on Page Five)
THERE WILL BE NO MORE
RADIO NIGHTS THIS YEAR
Lee Mitchell, Pageant Author, to 
Direct Rehearsals of Entire Cast
In the final ballot cast last Wed­
nesday, April 11, Betty McFadden, of 
Middleport, New York was chosen 
by the student body to reign «s Quee» 
of Carnegie's Ninth, Campus- Week. 
Jean Roy and Marjorie. Snodgrass 
who -were the other candidates 
chosen from the,, fifteen original en­
trants, will be maida'df honor to-tb© 
Queen at the Coronation Ceremony. 
The other nominees will be court, at­
tendants.
Betty McFadden is a senior itt the 
Drama Department and a member of 
Alpha Chi Alpha, women’s national 
journalistic honorary. She was a 
member of the Shilling staff for two. 
years and in her junior year was 
elected vice-president of the junior 
class in Arts School. She has been 
cast In many of the productions- of 
the Drama Department and last year 
was in tho cast of the Arts Ball Show.
Throo ballots wore cast, flftoon 
girls being choson nominees by the 
first ballot and three candidates were 
choson by the socond ballot. In the 
final election the queen was chosen 
from tho trio.
Tlie Coronation will take place at 
(!:0() o’clock Thursday ovening oX 
Campus Woolc and tho Ceremony 
will take place on the stops oi Ma­
chinery Hall. Tho sotting choson i« 
a typical Carnegie scone and should 
provide a van (ago1 point for the spec­
tators. It Is perhaps the host on 
the campus for tho, purpose and w.lH 
make quitq a charming background 
for tho modloA'al story that, has boon 
chosen. Loo Mitchell has written th« 
story of the pageant and will direct 
it personally. The ceremony will 'be­
come permanent; thlH year. This now 
arrangement, will enable tho com- 
mitt00 to make more olubornto and 
beautiful coatumos than thoso that 
have boon used lierotoforo. Tho flrsi 
rohoarsal was hold last Friday and 
work on tho costumes has already be­
gun.
The girls who will take part In the 
Girls’ Swoopstakos will bo elected to 
represent their respective group». 
Six groups will be representor/; the 
M. M. Commuters, the Arts School! 
Commuters,’ the Woodlawp Avenue- 
Dormitories, Mellon Hall, Forbes- 
Hall, and the Forbes Street, Dormi­
tories.' Tho names of the six con­
testants will appear in the next issue 
of the Tartan.
The girls’ athletics will Include 
archery, tennis, and perhaps, a 
mock baseball game. They are 
scheduled for 1:30 Friday afternoon.
witli the care and foresight which is 
devoted to the planinng of the details 
each year, the Dormitory Council’s 
tea dances are invariably enjoyable.
cooperating with the student publica­
tions on the Carnegie Campus and 
has been of great service to the Cam­
pus Week Publications, acting as a
Ralph Kruck’s Tartans will play at | campus representative of tho city
the dance.1 newspapers.
According to Mr. Davis of the "Y” 
there v/ill bo no more radio nights
I this year due to the tremendous
I amount of work and time entailed. 
¡However, because of tho enthusiasm
aroused by the first radio pro-
formance it is possible that the Car­
negie Radio Nights may bo continued 
next year if enough interest is shown.
The program this year was arrang­
ed by Prof; Robert Leighou and in­
cluded feature selections by many of 
the student groups on the campus.
Pres. Baker To Return From 
European Tour, April 24th
Dr. Thomas S. Baker, president oí 
Carnegie Tech, who has been in Eu­
rope for the-past six; weeks, has ca­
bled his associates at the institution 
that he plans t.o sail from Harvfe, 
France, on April 4/8, on the “Isle de 
France,” to arrive in New York April 
24 and 25.
Between March 10 and March* 14, 
President Baker delivered a series of 
four lectures in French in Paris, on 
“What the United States is Thinking 
About,” under the auspices of the Car­
negie Endowment, for International 
Peace. He has been spending the re­
mainder of his time in visiting gov­
ernment officials and fuel technolo­
gists in England, France, Germany 
and Belgium in the interests of the 
second international conference on bi­
tuminous coal, which1 will be held at 
Carnegie, Institute of Technology dur­
ing the week of November 19, 1928.
THETA TAU FRATERNITY TO
HOLD MEET|NG THURSDAY
The Active Theta Tan chapter will' 
hold a buslnoss meeting in room 53" 
Science Building, Mr. Daniels office, 
Thursday at 7:30. All members are- 
urgently roquested to attend. Sev­
eral important matters-must be con­
sidered immediately, and require 
everyone's attention.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, APRIL 17, 1928
CLOTHES
Ready-made 
And Cut to'Order-
ESTABLISHED ENGLISH UNIVERSITY 
STYLES, TAILORED OVER YOUTHFUL 
CHARTS SOLELY FOR DISTINGUISHED 
SERVICE IN THE UNITED STATES.
Suits *40, *45, *50 Topcoats
jP AGETWOH OGGCWRNIERN 
CUS ANCSE WA NDE
OF PITTSBURGH
The character of the suits and 
topcoats tailored by Charter House 
will earn your most sincere liking.
~ : "________________iI niorrTnDv l Emily Fulton, Last Campus Queen CLAN DIKLLIUKI | ... .I____________________ Is Heroine in Finale of This SeriesCLAN NEWSRobert W. Freeland 19 19 39 39 PLEEBR P3EOB 
Dies After IllnessT0 BE HELD SAT- APR'21
MILWAUKEE CLAN
The Milwaukee Clan held
NOTE: The Clan Directory iclvon below In ________________
Incomplete, »»<1 ,n no mo cotton, possibly incor- jrccL It him iioon compiled, ftowovcr, from the vVitli a new campus queen already I her Sophomore year, was president ol ‘ 
li u on s'Thou id ° i>c " uon ti ^ n y i m mein aid y to thé elected and campus week itself only the Margaret Morrison Senate in her j *
Alumni Ofl'iee. a little over two weeks away, our Senior year and was a member of the *
BALTIMORE j series of stories must soon come to a ; Student Council Cor two years. She *
Preniflent, G. S. DJohl, BoHona 181g close. It will therefore be impossible j was a member of Mortar Board, Worn- H* meeting recently at which they
^ConUmjntal BuMfing!^’ * J to give the history of all our campUH.en's Senior National Honorary, and | * e^ected Robert Perrine as the
BOSTON ! queens. We take.this opportunity to graduated with high honor.
S<!cret’ary, John F. Maxwell, 7fl West Street, aj)0]0g|ze anj condole any and all who j Upon leaving school Emily accepted i
have been ignored in this series, our!a position as Secretary of the Carne-
excuse being that wo have interviewed j gie Library of the North Side. In the j
those whom we were, able to reach ’ fall she became a member of the fac-1
the easiest. julty of the Edgewood High School}
It is only fitting that the last of: teaching commercial subjects, 
these articles should be about last I Wether or not Emily considers with
year's campus queen,- Emily Fulton, j equal importance the step taken by | ‘
Secretary, w limer H. Tucker, 1230% Clove- jn connection Emily is at a din- j last week’s heroine, she is at least
Tioniurcr!0nGeorg<! À. Martin, 315 Ninth | advantgae having been out of school contemplating such a move. Last,
Street, N. E. less than one year. However that did ¡Tuesday, April 10, Emily announced iChicago and Milwaukee.
CHICAGO I not deter us from writing this article her engagement to Robert M. Hays of v
The newest feature in the calendar Graduate of 1913 Rose to of the Margaret Morrison AlumnaeI Association is the formal dinner 
I dance to be held at the University 
Club, Saturday, April 21. This is the 
| first time that such a party has been
---------------- ! arranged by the Alumnae Association,
Alumni and faculty of fifteen years | and especially anxious that
Position of Importance 
in a Short Time
Braintree, Manu.
BUFFALO
President, Robert Porter, 130 Hoyt Street. Secretary and Treasurer, Herbert L. Moornh- 
felder, 34 Ketchum Place.
CANTON
President, Frank J. Taylor, CIO Alta Place, 
Ñ. W., Canton, Ohio.Vice President, Henry L. Borger, 015 Green 
Street, Mannlllon, Ohio.
elected Robert Perrine as the * | 
new secretary and treasurer. *
This clan has lost three members j ..recentlv due to the fact that v aS° will be grieved- to learn of 'the. *ecently, clue to tne lact that ^ RohQrt w Freeland in Ham. this year is a success a larger one
1928. 1 be planned for next year, and it
will become an annual affair in the
! it be a success. If the. dinner dance
«* you-may have or will notice.
! man ; Vic Stromqulnt, John HarKnan». | Emily Fulton, while in school was
T,:; VN,ti,C1 ’¦: kï active and a good student. A
Momberidiip Committee, G. B. Schmidt, Chair- ,neni|)e,. 0f jj,e Secretarial Depart
nient-she received a B. S.in 1927.
Edgewood, a Penn State graduate, j 
Just like all the other campus v 
queens, she has taken an interest in 
alumnae' work being a member of1 v 
last September’s Margaret Morrison [ *f 
Alumnae Dancfe Committee.
Elmer Weiss, King, and S. V. . _ ,
Williams have accepted positions v {mop.d, Indiana, on April in other cities ... Stricken with pneumonia, he lived on-m .. , 1V trhf rinvq »Iftpr its development Margaret Monuson Alumnae Associa-Two or three golf matches are ?!-!ly eight clays aitei us aevetopment. nnip11f1nvbeing arranged for the summer, v Freeland entered school in 1900, and : tlon calendar
received a B. S. in Electrical Engin- The committee in charge of , this 
eering in 1913. During these four event is composed of Mrs. Mary II. 
years he was known as one of the Ewart, chairman; Ruth Keiser Neil- 
most conscientious workers in his son, vice chairman; Mary McCly- 
class, and was highly regarded by the ; monds Wright, Mrs. Helen Bosworth 
faculty and student body alike. He j Orr, and Miss Harriet Merwin. They 
played football, was in the band, and have worked hard to insure the suc-
including a match between the 
Chicago and Milwaukee Clans to 
be held on some course between
NORTHERN NEW JERSEY
The Northern New Jersey ¦was a member of the student council. (cess of the dinner dance, and may
Clan will be held Thursday April v H© was a member of the old Wood-; they be rewarded with that which 
19. at 8:30 p. m. It will be held * ‘ lawn Club, and graduated with high they are seeking.
at the Gregory avenue school, *1 honors. I The dinner is at seven. Members
West Orange, New Jersey. Di- At the time of his death Freeland j of the Alumnae Association may 
rections to get to the school are: *5*' was Works Manager of the Hubbard j bring guests. After dinner there will 
go to West Orange Center, turn ‘I* I Steel Foundry at East Chicago. Upon be dancing and tables of bridge. 
t up Northfield road to Gregory -V , graduating from school he accepted a . This event was planned with the Listed by Tjniversity ** av.enue’ *01 ab°ut one-half ?¡position with the American Steel > belief that a formal dinner dance'
is dependent upon the ability to influ­
ence decisions, overcoming the resist- !
to influence others which characterize 
the successful industrial or profes­
sional leader in any field. For that 
reason selling experience is cf real 
value in developing qualities which 
make for business success and if a 
man shrinks instinctively from the 
idea of salesmanship, if he is
man: Mrs. John IlarkncHB, Tlmd Wheeler.
Publicity, F. W. Cook. ,¦Ml communications nhould be addressed to Emily was president of her class in
G. J. Copley. --------1----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CINCINNATI . . . ....rUn,,nt' Types of Occupational Activities
CLEVELAND 
President. A. C. May, PoorleBB Automatic
Machine Company.Vice PreHlde.nt, O. IC. Fulmer, 1849 East lOlat
¡Secretary, E. P. Batcham, 1080 Union Trust 
Building. , inlu,'Treanurer, L. C. LuBtenbergor, 1849 East ANAUA 
; Street.
Cr.EVELAND WOMEN’S CLAN 
President, Kuthorlne Kerr, 1938 East 110th
!vicer°PrcBldent, Alice Nelnon ICoppcs, 1979 
, Eant 82nd Street.¡Secretary and Treanurer, Catherine Allan, OZZ 
| Eant’ 124th Street.
COLUMBUS, OHIO 
President, N. J. Engle. 200 South High St.
¦Vice Prenldent, Florence H. Lutz, J1 South 
, : Market Street, Logan. Ohio.¡Secretary and Treasurer, J. R. Paloma, De- 
• partment of Romance Languages, Ohio 
State University.
CONNECTICUT 
•President, C. Arthur Nordstrom, 17 Sterling 
Street, Hartford.¡Vico President, William Gooby, 10 Madlnon 
I .Street, New Britain.ISecretary and Treasurer, Samuel Ilaxman,
; 92 Vice Slroet, Hartford.
DAYTON, OHIO 
Prenldent, F. W. Heckerl, 341 Kenilworth 
Avenue.
DETROIT
President, W. Ray William*, care Wentlng- 
house Electric & Manufacturing Company,
1535 Sixth Street.ISecretary arUl Triasurer, C. L. Boyle, .iuuu 
Balfour Road.ERIE
President, Ray Keller, care Hammermlll 
LCREjGj Company. ^ ,,r¦ ¡Secretary and Treasurer, R. C. Warren, caro 
I The Warren Company.(¿OLDEN GATE 
¡President, G. M. Whisler, 1778 Rose Slroet,
Secretary and Treasurer, Mrs. R. L, Wharton,
1 Box 147, Ropte .1, Richmond, Calif.
; HARRISBURG
¡President, John G. Todd, 20*/j North Queen 
I Street, Lancaster. ,;Vlee Proaident, Henry Y. Shnub, 20^ North 
!: Queen Street, Lancaster.’Secretary, Frank Hlghberger, care State De­
partment of> Public Instruction, Harrisburg.
HUNTINGTON, W. VA.
Secretary, J. F. DeYoung, 808 Second Street,East.
JOHNSTOWN 
Secretary, John W. Fritz, 215 John Street.
KOPPERS, PITTSBURGH 
1). J. McFarlln, earo iCopperfl Con- 
Gompany, Union Trunt Biilldlng.
H. H, Hook.
H. Neely.Wanner, loicelber with J., G,
II. E, Warren, composing
With the idea of helping the college 
man in selecting his career by pre­
senting to him the information con­
cerning the opportunities open to him 
and his fitness for them, the Depart­
ment of Personnel Study of Yale Uni­
versity has issued a pamphlet, “The 
Choice of an Occupation/'
Believing it to be worthy of consid­
eration, we have taken from this 
pamphlet a chapter dealing with types 
of occupational activity.
1. Work dealing primarily with 
people. '
A. Dealing directly with people.
I. This would lead in the profes­
sions to such lines of work as: Med­
icine. A calling of particular interest 
and importance today but one requir­
ing a longer, harder and more expen­
sive preparation than almost any 
other.
Ministry. The present needs and 
opportunities for leaders in this pro­
fession are admittedly great,
j mile to the school on the right. ?!- j Foundry at Granite City, 111., where would be especially attractive to the
. | * Enter at the front and go down * he quickly rose to a position of re-, younger alumnae. .Therefore it is
11 ¦ ! *!? stairs. sponsibility. After a few years, dur-! hoped that they will attend as well as
The Hard Luck Party, as it * I ing which he worked for the. Edge-j the older alumnae. Being undoubted-
ance of others and inducing them to ; was named, was planned for Fri- * | water Steel Company and Ohio Steel j ly the biggest affair between now 
accept suggestions requires both lead-j .j. day the 13th but arrangements Foundry, he became consulting en- j and campus week the alumnae should
oW'1 nn GICX CHB . * ------------------------------------ — *----------find n worth while to attend, and help
themselves and those who arranged 
the dinner dance to spend an enjoya­
ble evening.
ersliip and salesmanship. Generally it j .j. have been made to postpone the ?Igineer for the Steel Foundry Associa-
is these "selling qualities" or person- j * party until the 19th. All mem- 
ality. ease of expression and ability \ * bers should come, bringing hus-
1 bands, wives or sweethearts.
GOLDEN GATE CLAN
* The Golden Gate clan held a 
?I* meeting in March which was well
? .attended. Bridge was played 
, ? with the usual amount of talksensitive to rebuff and suggestable Iaml hilarity thrown in. IIow- 
rathêr than persuasive, the chances 1 * everi at Ul|s moetillg tll0 clan 
are against his becoming a dominant, 
figure in any phase of industrial man­
agement.
Furthermore the importance of dis­
tribution and marketing is so great in 
the present' economic organization, 
that selling in some form offers at 
present particularly promising oppor-
Law. Legal training is of recogni«^^ 
ed value in almost all kinds of busi- ' nP rn,'~
MONONGAIIELA VALLEY 
Gonrad A. Slone, Box 301, Ghar-
Nixon Conn, Fourth and Dock
It. LowHliiiiror,
MILWAUKEE 
Prenldent, A. 11. Tonlenon, 737 Fortieth Stroot. 
Secretary and Troatunvr, N. L. Dlltmor, 540 
SoooilU Avenue, Wauwatono.
NEW YORK 
Secretary and Treasurer, Mryon Kit ill f, 4000 
. Avenue M, Brooklyn, N. V.
Puhlliilly, Managei:, F. I. Smith, caro H. L 
Doherty Company, 00 Wall Stroot.
NORFOLK
Prenldent, T. D. Flt^glbbon, 811 Holt Street.
. NORTHERN NEW JERSEY 
President, C. W. Gibbs, cure lnn»jrsoll-Rand 
Company, 11 Broadway, New York City.
‘ Vito President, E. W. Van Dor Wolk, 73 Grovo 
Street, Montclair. N. J.Treasurer, F. K. Zolglor, 295 Union Avenue, 
Belleville, N\ J.
Secretary, J. F. Smanoy, 211 Locust Strcut, 
Roselle Park, N. J.
PHILADELPHIA 
President, M. D. Scott, 545 Ivatbmere Road. 
Brookline, Upper Darby, Pa.
ness, but particularly in those de­
manding leadership and keen, sound 
analysis, as for instance, Finance.
Personnel work in industry or edu­
cation. This is a relatively new pro­
fession of gemiine interest and in­
creasing importance. The proper 
training and selection of individuals, 
in order that they may develop then* 
maximum effectiveness in other 
words intelligent utilization of man 
power—-is a great present day, prob­
lem both .in industry and education. 
From two to four years of training 
through the plant is usually necessary 
before beginning work in the person­
nel office.
Social Service. Many good opportu­
nities not generally known about exist 
in this field. Specialized and success­
ful workers in such organizations as 
Civic Centers. Americanization Coun­
cils, Boys’ Clubs, etc., receive adequ­
ate compensation and find genuine 
interest and satisfaction in their work.
Techlng. The field of education of­
fers exceptional opportunities today, 
because pf the relatively small number 
Of graduates who have entered if dur­
ing recent years. More men of out­
standing ability are now turning to 
tills field and such individuals should 
undoubtedly find a splendid future 
therein. The economic considerations 
which militated for several years 
against the teaching profession have 
to a considerable degree been improv­
ed, so that teachers are far from be­
ing as ill paid now as they were a few 
years ago. ,
The above professions with the ex­
ception of law, perhaps, offer less in 
flip way of financial return than
branches of business. The economic 
conditions which have recently 
brought salesmanship and the scien­
tific study of marketing problems to 
such a high degree of development 
will probably continue for a number 
of years to come,’which additionally 
emphasizes, from the point of view of 
advancement in business, the advan­
tages of the sales field for those who 
are not fitted by inclination and otlier 
jualities to enter it.
Selling.
(a)' Specialized personal distribu­
tion, e. g., products of some particular 
factory, often through branches, etc.
Secretary nnd Treasurer, T. S. Reppller, caro straight business, blit have as COllipen- EdwardB, Ewing & Jones, North American ,.____ ____ 0____Building, Philadelphia. sations otliei advantages. Some of
Chnirmnn Entertainment and Membership 
Committee, L. E. Exline, 1520 Real EBtato 
iTrust Building.
PITTSBURGH 
President, G. Albert Wagner, enre The Kop- pers Company.
Vice President, L. II. Lee, 20G Stanwix "Street. 
Sccretary-Treasurer, Buddy Overend, Carnegie 
Tech.
SCHENECTADY 
President, J. M. SampBon, 45 Bedford Street. 
Vice President, J. SL. Knight, care Genera 
•Electric Company.Secretary and Treasurer, Raymond Gill, 206 
Union Street.
ST. L4*UISActing Secretary, M. A. Zollar, care of Ham­
ilton Company, Inc., 2127 Pine Street. 
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 
President:, Floyd Fisher, 814 North Fairmont 
Road, Burbank, Calif.
Vice President', James Schofield, care Colum­
bia Stopl Corporation, 831 Paoific Electric 
Building.
Secretary and Treasurer, Betty Finkelhor, 200 
North Qakhurst Drive, Beverley Hills, Calif. 
Executive Committee, John Meredith and 
Robert Flnkolhor.
TULSA
President,'H. (J. Toxter, earo Standard Seam­
less Tubo Company, 710 Mid Continent: 
Building.Vico President, Arthur ,T. Kerr, 1017 South 
Quaker Avenue.
Secretary and Treasurer, II. W. Ponterman, 
902 Mayo Building.
WASHINGTON, I). C.
President, J. R. Arnold, 24 Second Street, 
N. W.Vice President, Harriot Staples, 3011 S Street1, 
N. W.
Secretary and Treasurer, A. M. Pringle, 027 
Lexington Place. N. E.
YOUNGSTOWN. OHIO 
President, R. A. Bookmeyer, 1515 Elm Street 
Vice President, Fred C. Heede, 1321 Hillman 
Street.
Secretary and Treasurer, George Murphy, 1871 
Selma Avenue.
these are: Contacts with growing
outli, spiritual satisfaction, offer op­
portunity for travel, interesting work, 
and intellectual stimulation.
2. Business. In business this type 
of activity finds its most important 
outlet in management and selling.
bility, is the natural aim of almost 
every man entering business. It can­
not well be differentiated occupation­
ally, because the qualities it calls for 
are equally important in almost any 
business or profession. The success­
ful manufacturer or merchandising ex­
pert or advertising man, the great 
publisher or educator, the influential 
financier, the engineer who plans 
large projects are all equally engaged 
in the management and direction of 
people. A large part of their success
Designer’s Initials
The Department of the Treasury 
says the mark on the Liberty dollai 
is not an M, but is a combination oi 
the letters A and F. the initials ol 
the designer, Anthony Francisci.
voted to subscribe for a Loyalty * 
*!* Bond in the name of the Golden *1* 
?I* Gate Clan. Payments will be *
* made from the yearly subscrip- * 
tion of a dollar a member,, paid -V
v in for the s,ending out of notices *1* 
and incidental expenses incurred. * 
•I* The last two years have exceeded »> 
the needs of the Clan so .it was -b
* voted to set aside ten dollars * 
•I* from this fund yearly toward the * 
-> payment on the Clan bond. The v 
•J* clan feels tliat with its increas- *
* ing membership there is no rea- *!• 
son why they should not be able ?!*
* to carry the obligation to its * 
completion. The Clan officers
* are considering by what means * 
•I* they may knit together'through *
mutual interests the diversified * 
•!* and widely scattered member- -!• 
•I* ship.and has,sent out a question- ? 
naire to all members of the clan 
requesting information as to the 
best times for meetings and the
tion of America. In this capacity he
* ; arose to a position of prominence in 
v j the steel' foundry game, and soon was
' recognized as one of the leading au- 
| thorities in the business. Eight years 
?I*1 ago he. came to the firm which he was
* I connected with at his death.
* | Using the words of Walter C.
* Brand, a friend and classmate of Free-
* j land’s, “He was a high calibre man, 
a born executive, an ideal husband 
and father, highly regarded by his 
business associates, and loved bjr k j 
host of, friends. He will be greatly ! 
missed.”
FIRST CHURCH OF CHRIST
SCIENTIST 
CLYDE STREET, PITTSBURGH
SUNDAY SERVICES 11 A. M. 8 P.
Sunday School 11 A. M.
Wednesday evening services 8 to 9.
The chain store and mail order 
store.
Purchasing (which may require 
sales training to develop judgment as 
|to marketability; or factory training 
| to familiarize the buyer with the use 
¡to be made of purchased materials).
Trading companies, domestic and 
foreign.
Y. The Foreign. Field.
This frequently demands initial train- * kinds most appreciated by the 
Ing in factory processes lo learn how *’* members. A theater party is be- *!* 
thé product is made, points of super- ing planned for the April' meet- ?!* 
lorlty, etc. ? ing.
(b) Specialized technical distribu­
tion. Sales engineering has recently 
become of increasing importance. Sat­
isfactory demonstration and installa­
tion of cor tali) products requires 
sound technical training.
(c) Less specialized porsonal dis­
tribution, e. g., soiling products of va­
rious factories through jobbers, etc., 
general merchandising, wholesale or 
retail.
id) Sales of basic commodities 
(iron, steel, paper and other raw ma­
terials; coal, oil, chemicals).
fe) Public .utilities (power, light, 
communication facilities, etc.).
(Ï) Real estate (sale, rental or 
management of real property for pri­
vate, commercial and industrial pur­
poses).
(g) Intangibles such as insurance, 
investments, advertising or other 
services.
B. Dealing indirectly with people; 
through promoting and forming poli­
cies for others to follow, influencing 
groups, public opinion, etc. Such ac­
tivity .would take form of:
Advertising (copy writing, layout 
work. etc)%
Journalism.
Certain phases of education, as ad­
ministration, scholarly research.
Management, or executive responsi- j Social investigation and its appli-
Public relations work, as in certain 
phases of business and government.
II. Work dealing primarily with 
Ideas.
Inventions (patent law; develop­
ment of new projects).
Experimental research.
Many phases of pure science or pure 
engineering as distinguished from ap­
plied science or applied engineering.
Artistic and creative professions, 
which primarily are the expression of
ideas through such media as:
(a) Architecture.
(b) The Fine Arts: Painting and 
Sculpture; Music.
(c) Creative Literature.
(d) Design (Artistic and Commer­
cial).
(e) Drama (play writing, acting, 
technical production).
Work dealing primarily with 
Things.
A. Working with a thing itself— 
handling, moulding, shaping materials. 
This would lead to:
Various kinds of engineering and 
construction.
The technical or production side of 
manufacturing.
Production of natural resources 
(coal, oil and gas, mining products).
Architecture.
Forestry.
B. Working with the symbols of 
things—dealing with things in thé ab­
stract.
This would lead to:
Accounting; cost analysis.
Statistical analysis in professional, 
industrial or financial fields.
Certain forms of research.
Drafting and designing.
Credit work (in mercantile or finan­
cial organizations).
Buying -end of investment banking 
(a thorough sales training is usually 
an indispensable prerequisite).
Actuarial insurance work.
IV. Work dealing with the Com­
mercial Exchange and Impersonal Dis­
tribution of Things.
Newspaper and direct advertising.
The retail store.
Tiro department, store.
AGEMAN & SPICKER
The Men’s Store of East Liberty 
6121 PENN AVENUE
cuumiYSTERN MASTERS, THESE DELUSIONSBy FRANK REIT,L Y

---------------------------------------------------

/
LEARN TO DANCE
CRAIG AND FORBES STREETS 
In the Heart of Tech and Pitt
Beginners Monday and Friday Evenings. Advanced, Thursday and 
Saturday Evenings. Private lessons 
by appointment.
Mayflower 7891
STUDENT
SUPPLIES
C. M. STAUFT
they were cool, dark, moist and T 
dense. This made them much less 
flammable than the p resen t- 
thlnned-out forests.
OAKLAND
Âs Morris Goes--So Goes the Fashion
A Display of
UNIVERSITY
iPs APPAREL
Tailored solely and 
? f ^vIlV Jxclusively for this es-tablishment, embody- 
-'Ali.' j U Lag the approved
ideas in student ap- 
parel tliat have made 
il&lJ I store famous.
jpjl 1 Monday and Tuesday
KM April 23rd and 24th
Sip/l r
iifpl SUITE 236 
¡Ilf/1 Webster Hall
Morris’s
GREENSBURG, PA,
CLOTHING
Haberdashery John Ward Shoes
| Printing News ]
The next printing lecture will be 
given Tuesday, April 24, in Room 
104 Industries by John C. Hill of 
Baltimore, Md. His topic is “An 
Avenue to Service'’. Mr. Hill is 
secretary of the United Typothetae 
of America. This topic of Mr. Hill’s 
will concern the place that college 
trained printing men make for them­
selves and the possibilities that 
there are for giving service for the 
welfare of the printing industries.
SCABBARD AND BLADE TO 
HOLD NAT. CONVENTION
Annual Meeting is to be Held at 
Ohio State University on 
April 26-27-28
College Training and Printing is a 
64 page booklet which has just come 
from the press of the printing de­
partment. This booklet was printed 
by the senior class in printing pro­
duction with the collaboration of the 
members of the printing department 
staff. The booklet describes courses 
of study, equipment, and aim of the 
printing department. It contains 
about 2,000 copies which will be dis­
tributed to prospective students, of­
ficials of printing organizations, man­
ufacturers who have made donations 
of equipment to the department, and 
to all others interested persons.
The bindery class conducted by R. 
C. David has recently completed as a 
class project a 72 page book entitled 
“Teclibound”. The larger work of 
production has been done by D. J. 
Doherty, Harvey Thompson, E. A. 
Normandeau, Stanley Calm, Alexan­
der Lewin, D. T. Dille, and G. S. 
Bowman. Four issues of this book 
has been previously published, but 
the' present book is said to be far 
superior to any produced in the past.
The classes in plant visits taught 
by Messrs. D. E. Drummay, and G. T. 
Thomas have made visits during the 
past week to the C. R. Moore Com­
pany, West Liberty avenue, Pitts­
burgh, which is a well equipped com­
mercial printing plant, to thé Samuel 
Bingham’s Son manufacturers, a com­
pany which is one of the leading 
American manufacturers of printers’ 
rollers; and to the Pittsburgh Press 
which has one of the newest and 
most modern printing plants in the 
United States.
The Printing Department lias re­
cently received from E. W. Blatch- 
ford Company of New York a dona­
tion of a patented mounted base with 
accessories for the Kelly Press.
The National Society of Scabbard 
and Blade, honorary military frater- 
i nity, will hold its sixteenth national 
( convention at the station of M Com- 
j pany, First Regiment, Ohio State Uni- 
1 varsity, April 26, 27 and 2S. Two 
! headquarters have been established, 
! the campus headquarters at the Cadet 
: Officers’ Club and the downtown liead- 
j quarters at the Desliler-Wallick Hotel. 
All business sessions will be held at 
Campbell Hall on the Ohio State cam­
pus.
Approximately two hundred dele­
gates will attend the convention. 
These will be selected from the junior 
and senior cadet officers from the 
chapters (called companies) in forty 
states.
The chapter at Ohio State, M Com- 
j pany, First Regiment, was installed in 
; 1925. It is one of the largest compa- 
j nies having a membership of forty- 
i seven active men and an alumni ros- 
! ter of approximately three hundred 
j fifty names.
| Among the nationally known mem­
bers to address the convention are: 
j Major General Charles P. Summerall, 
| chief of staff. U. S. A.; Major General 
j Dennis E. Nolan, commanding gen- 
' eral Fift£ Corps area; Major General 
! Benson W. Hough, federal judge; 
j Brigadier General Edward Orton, Jr. 
Q. M. C. Res., senior vice president of 
; R. O. A. and M. I. Res. secretary of 
j Military Order of the World War.
National officers of the society are: 
Lieutenant R. R. Bush. Akron, Ohio, 
I division commander; Lieutenant H. R. 
j Tremaine, Los Angeles, Calif., second 
in command; Major H. C. Maliin, La- j fayette, Ind., executive officer. The 
I captain of the host company is Cadet 
Colonel Eugene P. Reed and Lieuten­
ant Claude C. Skatis is chairman of 
the convention committee.
The Carnegie officers of the Scab­
bard and Blade are: A. W. Standt,
captain; B. F. Carley, first lieutenant; 
G. L. Seibert, second lieutenant, and 
J. A. Hagen, first sergeant. Captain 
A. W- * Standt will be the local dele­
gate to the convention and 'B. F. Car­
ley lias been named as alternate.
Tartan Feature Writer Utters War Cry and
Bounds Out With Spy-Glass For-Thistledown
The older generation really doesn’t 
grasp the ponderous problems which 
weigh on the over-weighted minds of 
the present generation, exemplified by 
the college student—in fact, and even 
more precisely, exemplified by the 
student of Carnegie Institute of Tech­
nology (with every second syllable ac­
cented, beginning with the secoud).
The older generation sneers and 
asks: "Just what ponderous problems, 
little fella?” as it sits in its Morris 
chair, smoking its whiskers and strok­
ing its pipe.
And in utter contempt for such ig­
norance, we snap our fingers and reg­
ister derision (which we have learned 
to do very effectively from a little 
practice before the mirror) and reply 
replying: “Say, Grandpa, unspek
your spectacles and take a stop, look 
and listen. To begin with, how about 
the terrific identity problem we have 
with us and which we must not shirk, 
but face bravely and with all the cour­
age of an American citizen and Pitts­
burgh Rotarian?”
“What's ’at?” asks Grandpa, having 
forgotten to retain his really very 
good sneer. And that just goes to 
prove—well, any nasty thing you want 
to say about the Older Generation’s in­
telligence. But to resume! Well, I 
continue to be very concrete, there’s 
this Cardo Chardon Disselwolde per­
son. It’s awful the way he carries on. 
A few weeks ago he threw out his 
chest, threw back his ears, distended 
his nostrils, and bellowed, ‘Who reads 
Thistledown?’ ‘I,’ said the sparrow, 
“with my little bow and arrow, I killed 
cock robin.’ And that ain’t all. This 
perverted C. C. D. person soon pops 
up again with his hair standing
ALPHA TAU INITIATES 12 
MEN AT BANQUET APR. 14
A. I. E. E. ELECTS G. M. COOPER
PRESIDENT FOR 1928-1929
The President of the Carnegie A. I. 
E. E. for 1928-29 will be George M. 
Cooper, now junior electrical, as de­
termined by the election of April 11. 
Cooper has had an excellent record 
scholastically and in activities; he is 
a member of the Phi Sigma Kappa, 
social fraternity, and of Eta Kappa 
Nu, honorary. The activity of the A.{ 
I. E. E. is well-known on the campus 
It brings noted speakers here, spon­
sors social events, and in general is 
of great social and educational value 
to the electrical department. The 
new president will attend the regional 
student convention, at Baltimore which 
takes place tomorrow, Wednesday, 
April 19.
Forest Destruction
The virgin forests in prehistoric 
times were not entirely destroyed by 
fires started from lightning, because 
vere cool, dark, moist and very 
less i'n-
Last Saturday evening, April 14, the 
Carnegie Chapter of Alpha Tau held 
its spring initiation at Webster Hall 
at which time the following men were 
made members: B. Zachrisson, W.
W. Crause, B. I. McLeod, C. C. Park, 
D. C. Happer, E. J. Boyd, Jr., G. C. 
I-Iarbison, F. P. Thomas, C. H. Weatli- 
erell, 11. C. Wray, R. H. Wehrle, G. V. 
Becker.
Following the initiation1, a banquet 
was held for the new members. The 
toastmaster, R. K. Merker, proved 
more than fitted to the position and 
added plenty of interest to the even­
ing.
“Red” Godden, one time football 
star for Carnegie, was present and en­
tertained with a very pleasant, talk.
Director Jewett and Professor Leeds 
were also among those present-.
Particular honor is due G. V. Becker, 
a sophomore in Building Construction, 
in being called to the fraternity. The 
custom is to call only one sophomore 
in Industries and to be the chosen one 
is worthy of great praise.
straight up on end and his eyes gleam­
ing with indignation and Maybelline 
and shouts, 'Thistledown demands 
that the backs of Plebes’ laps be re­
served for sitting only and not for 
blistering.’ He seems to be unaware 
I of the fact that the spine and should­
ers only are used for sitting. A mid- 
Victorian! And there’s a clue to his 
identity. All the greater minds of the 
school don their Sherlock Holmes out­
fits, buy a hand lens, and turn up all 
the stones on the campus in their 
search for a mid-Victorian—but no re­
sults.
"And then in the next Tartan old C. 
C. D. trumpets forth, ‘I’m a fraternity 
man, I am, I am. And we had pie for 
lunch today.’ A fraternity man! Pie! 
A clue! On with the search! We in- 
j spect every molecule in every frater­
nity, and those suspected of pie are 
treated very suspiciously. But we find 
that pi. far from equalling 3.1416, 
equals nothing—and we are baffled.’’
And finally C. C. D. (which aren’t 
anyone’s initials that we know of, and 
all of which doesn’t spell anything 
backwards) blurts but: ‘I was in Ken­
tucky over Easter with a classmate.’ 
Then he closes his eyes in ecstacy of 
remembrance and coos about the beau­
ties of a southern spring. Well, there 
are some more clues, and all Ken­
tuckians will be put through the third 
degree at once.
Now you see, Grandpa, to a minute 
degree the problems of the present 
generation, toward whom, we hope, 
you will show more respect and rev­
erence in the future.
P. S. And how’s this for publicity, 
Thistledown, old blow?
I. H.
trade agreement, like that of Jackson­
ville, where no consideration lias 
passed to bind the bargain, is not a 
true contract, but only a memorandum 
or statement of policy.
All the more reason, then, it might 
be argued from the moral standpoint, 
for the public to uphold the ethical 
validity of such an agreement. If this 
is the only bridge on which employer 
and employee can meet, and if law 
will have none of it, then all the moro 
reason for public opinion to give it a 
j firm foundation. Certainly it is not a 
question of a particular union or in­
dustry; it concerns them all. The 
public is an indirect party to any dis­
pute as a member of the national 
family (often a much-abused mem­
ber!), and for the merost solflsh mo­
tive, if for no other, it must support 
the only means by which the family 
may hope to have peace.
C. S. M.
CARNEGIE WOMEN’S CLUB
HOLDS BENEFIT BRIDGE
On last Saturday, April 14. in the 
Carnegie Union members of the fac­
ulty and their wives attended a bene­
fit bridge sponsored by the Carnegie 
Woman’s Club. In spite of the fact 
that it had been necessary to change 
the date of the event from April 21 
to April 14. a large number was pres­
ent, approximately 75 tables being in 
play. Mrs. More, who had charge of 
the ticket sales, reports a very suc­
cessful ticket campaign resulting in a 
substantial sum for the Club to turn, 
j over immediately to the Carnegie En­
dowment Fund. By the plan of the Car­
negie Corporation, the school receives 
eight million in 1946 if we secure four 
million by that time and many organ­
izations on the campus are working
held Saturday by the Woman’s Club is 
among the first of its projects to raise 
money for the fund and will no doubt 
be followed by additional ones in the 
near future.
STUDENT RECOVERING FROM
ACCIDENT OF LAST WEEK
Robert Welirle a , Junior in the 
Building Construction department 
who was the victim of an accident 
at the athletic fldld last Tuesday af­
ternoon has almost completely re­
covered. He returned to Ills frater­
nity house Saturday from the West 
Penn hospital where lie was taken 
immediately after the accident.
Wehrle is a member of the Delta 
Upsilon social fraternity and of the 
Tartan and Thistle stall's; His home 
is In Cleveland. Oliio.
1a
College Students Prefer
Hart Schaifiier & Marx
Suits and 
T opcoats 
$0/1.50
More style, more value, finer fabrics. 
More skilled tailorlnn. more wear and 
more satisfaction. You’ll see all the new 
models—with style characteristics that 
aro Individual with this great make—and 
many oxclusive patterns and colorings. 
All these factors make this special group 
ol Hart Schaffner & Marx Suits and Top­
coats an extraordinary "buy” at $34.50.
Copyright 108R Hurt Sol»ufrnor& Marx
Budget Buying Plan 
Pay in Ten Weeks
You Can Buy Hart Schaffner & 
Marx Clothing On Our Budget 
Buying Plan—Pay in Ten Weeks.
THE HOPE OF COLLECTIVE 
BARGAINING
Coal operators in considerable num­
bers broke Ch^ir agreement /with the 
United ^tine Workers, which they 
signed at Jacksonville in 1924, and on 
being summoned before the Senate 
committee looking into the present j 
strike said, probably correctly, that \ 
the agreement Is not legally binding. 
Whether a contract of this sort is 
morally binding is, of course, another 
matter. But the question at issue 
really goes deeper than a controversy 
between operators and miners, and 
touches the roots of the whole sys­
tem of collective bargaining and the 
relationship between Capital- and La­
bor.
The miners and operators of wliat 
is called the central competitive field 
met in Florida in February of 1924 
and signed an agreement which was 
to continue three years, calling for £
$7.50 basic wage scale. Secretary 
Hoover, that same year, rejoicing pre­
maturely over the agreement in his an­
nual report, told how it was attained 
with his department’s co-operation, 
and how it insured industrial peace 
in the industry. When the news that 
certain operators had broken the Jack­
sonville scale was brought to the 
President’s attention, Mr. Coolidge an­
nounced, “I profoundly deplore the 
breaking of any contract,” and added, 
of this particular case, that “the faith­
ful compliance with agreements be­
tween employers and employees is 
the sole hope of collective bargaining 
—a principle now accepted in Ameri­
can life.” P}e urged the mine work­
ers to seek recourse in the/ courts, 
adding, however, that he realized that 
the legal position of industrial joint 
wage agreements is extremely hazy.
The fact Is that under present 
American law a wage ^agreement 
really has no place in court. This Is 
as true of agreements in the needle 
trade as it is of coal mining. While 
this seems an extraordinary situation 
to some observers, it is justified by 
others. Even if unions and employers’ 
associations were incorporated (which 
they are not) and the extent of their 
liability defined, it Is questionable, de­
clare the latter group of commenta­
tors, whether an indictment would* be 
a feasible method of recovery from a 
whole union and whether legal ma­
chinery in this instance would not de­
stroy more than it would produce in 
a situation necessarily depending on 
good will and mutual confidence. At 
any rate, several American courts ap­
pear to have held that the normal
MAN EATS MG SFISH
On your first trip abroad, you are doubtless 
prepared to see lots of interesting things.—'icebergs, 
perhaps.—.exclusive French restaurants serving 
corned beef and cabbage — cultured Englishmen 
who do not wear monocles, or say “Old Bean”. 
Probably you would not even register surprise 
if you found high speed Otis elevators apparently 
as much at home on the Leviathan and other trans­
atlantic liners, as in the .finest buildings in all parts 
of the world.
OTIS ELEVATOR COMPANY
Offices in All Principal Cities of the World
TUESDAY, APRIL 17, 1928 THE CARNEGIE TARTAN PAGE THREE

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, APRIL 17, 1928THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE FOUR
Y.W.C.A. Holds Discussion 
Dinner Tonight At 5:30SCENE OF QUALIFICATIONiCOURSES IN PRINTING TO 
EXERCISES IS CHANGED! BE GIVEN NEXT SUMMER
Dr. George H. Follows Prepares Pamphlet on 
Meaning of Commercial Engineering CourseOFFICERS TO BE ELECTED 
AT GIRLS’ GLEE CLUB MEET
Another of the popular Y. W. C. A. 
discussional dinners is scheduled for 
tonight at 5:30 in the Recreation Hall 
of Margaret Morrison. The chief 
speaker at the dinner will be Mrs. 
Poster, who has been prominent for 
several years in the work connected 
with Eaglesmere Camp and who has 
distinguished herself in the office of 
! secretary of the' Student Educational 
| Board of the Northern Convention of 
j the Baptist Church. Another guest at 
! the dinner will be Miss Green, Dean of 
I Women.
I Every girl at Carnegie, whether she 
j is a member of the Y. W. or not, is 
! not only invited to attend the dinner 
j tonight; she is urged to do so. The 
success of the former dinners given 
I by the Y. is assurance of an interest* 
! ing evening.
j Esther Lawton, Drama Department, 
I has been elected Y. W. C. A. represen­
tative for the; Freshman Arts class, 
j She has been interested in the Y. 
I work since her entrance into Carnegie.
Commercial engineering is one of I 
the newest courses in the curriculi j 
of modern colleges and the true pur- i 1 
pose of the course together with what j 
it lias to offer are known to a very 
few. A commercial engineering course 
was introduced into the curriculum of 
Carnegie Tech seventeen years ago. 
From its beginning here the idea has 
spread to about forty colleges and uni- : 
versities throughout the United States 
and the meaning is still comparative­
ly unknown. Dr. George'II. Follows, 
of the Commercial Engineering De­
partment, has prepared a pamphlet for 
publication setting forth the purpose 
of the couse and what' it has to offer.
; Some of these are quoted below:
"The course in commercial engi­
neering is four years in length and 
leads to the ^degree of Bachelor of 
Science, combines technical with busi­
ness training. It is especially^ design­
ed to give the point of view and the 
education necessary to those who are 
interested iii finance apd commerce— 
that field of work which applies 
scientific method to the solving of 
problems in finance, distribution, serv­
ice and the purchasing and gathering 
of the materials necessary to produc­
tion.
“Finance deals with the money 
problem's: General organization and
capitalization, the governing of mat­
ters pertaining to banking, credits, in­
surance, taxes, inventories,, costs, re­
serves and dividends; the making of 
budgets, and the solving of problems 
in accountancy.
"Distribution has to do with pub­
licity, selling, delivery, and service; 
with the making of surveys of possible 
marijfetS, studies of customers’ require­
ments, effective advertising, the plan­
ning of selling campaigns and the or­
ganization of service facilities.
"The exacting requirements ol 
modern business demand the complete 
economic co-ordination and control of 
these vital activities.
"Those who expect to engage in the
MILITARY REVIEW C.W.; 
C.I.T. MEN GET MEDALS
Keturns to 
His Favorite 
Tobacco
CATERING
DEPENDABLE FOR CLASS
FRATERNITY AFFAIRS
Service that is distinctively 
appropriate. Complete Menu if 
desired or merely Cakes, Ice Cream and Pastry. Estimates 
on request.
STORE SERVICE 
Cakes—Pastries—Ice Creams— 
Ices—Bread and Candies ideally 
made and sold at reasonable 
prices. Phone orders—no charge 
for city delivery.
Table and Fountain 
Luncheon Service.
Store hours: 8 A.M. to 11:30 P.M.
We’ve Noticed It, Too
Often when you think you are losing 
you are winning, and when y«*u think 
you are winning you are losing. Time 
will tell i ho «tory. too,—Watertown
Boerne, Texas Oct. 14, 1926
T,arus & Bro. Co.Richmond, Va.
; Dear Sirs:, I arri a prodigal son.I began pipe-smoking with Edge- 
worth.' But after a while I began to wander, trying other tobaccos, experi­
menting to see if there were any better 
tobacco for the pipe.I have tried most of the best known brands and a number of the more ob­scure, both imported and domestic, 
but they didn't suit.So now 1 have returned I am using 1 TJdgeworth again, satisfied that- no 
better tobacco is made."And the prodigal son partook of the fatted calf”; I bought a new pipe 
when \. returned to Edgeworth.With many thanks for my cool, mel­
low, sweot smokes, I am,Very truly yours,"If. I).”Edgeworth
Extra High Grade
Smoking Tobacco
ContribsA Course an Hand­
ling Money
The formation of a banking 
connection early In life is an 
indispensable part of your 
education.
The experience in handling 
money, the friendly advice of 
specialists trained to meet 
every type of financial prob­
lem, will enable you to make 
the most of your allowance 
now, and will eventually help 
you to success in whatever 
line of work you may follow.
A MAN’S VIEWPOINT ON WOMEN’S 
RIFLE RECOGNITION
A wing of the new buildings will 
contain a "court room” seating 500. 
A, new reading room will accommo­
date 1,000' students.
9ilcß(cmentÄ<5uCATERERS
STOBY ENGINEERING 
1st €$•©! €®2®rado
WHEN IN EAST LIBERTY MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT
GEORGE W. BOLANIS, Proprietor 6214 PENN AVENUE
STUDENTS' POPULAR RENDEZVOUS
ALL MAKES OF TYPEWRITERS, NEW AND USED 
SOLD—RENTED—REPAIRED
FORT PITT TYPEWRITER CO., Inc.
Royal Portable Distributors—COURT 1100 
Store No. 1 Store No. 2
428 FOURTH AVENUE SIXTH AND WOOD STREETS
Scene Along Auto Highway to Mine Camp, 20 Miles from College Campus at Golden
Engineering Summer SchcoS e£ tSse 
Rocky Mountain Region
Basic engineering courses in Mathematics, Chemistry, Physics, English 
and Design. Also courses in Assaying, Geology, Analytical Mechanics, 
Graphic Statics, Strength of Materials and Surveying. Preparatory 
Subjects of Chemistry, Physics, Advanced Algebra-and Solid Geometry 
offered for students deficient in entrance requirements.
July 2 to August 25» 1928
This Summer Session is given especially for students who wish to 
make up work or to secure additional credits. All work is conducted by 
the regular Faculty of the School of Mines. For catalog of the Summer 
Session, write to the Registrar, Box Z?2.
THE BROOKFIELD HAT 
$5.00
The new “shadowweight” felt is the ideal hat for 
students. Made with narrow band in pearl and light 
tan.
AUFHAMMER and EVANS
6100 PENN AVENUE Established 1872
Colorado School o£ Mines Goîdett, Colorado
DIFFERENCEThe Oakland BankWhen you rent a tuxedo suit from us you 
rent the best.
Quality, Pit and Style. All sizes.
Special rates to students
Capital, $300,000.00 
Surplus, $500,000.00 
Deposits Over $6,000,000.00
OFFICERS
.................President
........Vice President
........Vice President
.................Treasurer
Assistant Treasurer
.................Secretary
.Assistant Secretary
C. B. Aylesworth 
Clyde Ó. Taylor.
R. J. Miller........
O. C. Young;... 
P. W. Cotton....
C. W. Elmi.........
Adam Roscoe....
0002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE 
Day Phone Atlantic 9595 Night Phone Lafayette 4791-R
iV I S I O N>j
PROGRESS \p 
SERVICE 1 
CHARACTER
JKj:taii.ing is a profession with great promise for 
a successful career. Our organization affords many 
real opportunities. Interview between 9 A. M. and 
S P. M. or by appointment. Bureau of employment 
10th floor.
DIRECTORS
John Dnnling 
James B. Clark 
Clyde C. Taylor 
A. B. Sheets 
C. B. Aylesworth 
John G. Pew
C. H. Kerr 
R. Rogers Flannery 
Barnev Drevfuss 
J. Ó. INI ilier 
R. J. Millèr 
A. J. LoefflerfKAU TMAN N 91Member Federal Reserve SystemPITTSBURGH

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, APRIL 17, 1928THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE FIVE
HISTORY STUDENTS TOUR, 
STUDY FOREIGN PROBLEMS
IMusic Notes
I t
International relations and govern­
mental problems are to be lifted out 
of the abstract realms of -text books 
this summer for the women students 
of history.- The Open Road travel or­
ganization for the National Student 
Federation of America have planned a 
tour which will bring the traveler in­
to direct relations with European 
life. A complete knowledge of the 
functioning of . foreign governments 
and international , relations. Both 
problems will be seen in a much dif­
ferent aspect than is usually treated 
in the American classroom.
The weeks will be spent abroad dur­
ing which time the party /will journey 
through the Rhein Valley, Prague and 
Italy where Fascism will be seen in 
its full working ability. The League 
of Nations will be studied at Geneva 
¦where international problems are ac­
tually discussed.
In each center informal conferences 
will be held. At all times there will 
be European hosts at hand to aid 
the .visitors in their explorations and 
to extend their hospitality which has 
been created by Student international 
co-operation.
Besides studying the government 
¦of European states the culture and 
scenic beauty will be given especial 
attention. The itinerary provides for 
short visits at Florence, Charters, 
Vienna, Rome and Paris.
The party will sail from New York 
•on June 20 and return from Cher­
bourg on September 9. The expedi­
tion is to he under the leadership of 
Mary Noel Arrowsmith. This tour is 
open to undergraduates and recent 
graduates. The group will be limited 
to ten members interested in current 
history and international problems.
The Open Road also, under the aus­
pices of the National Student Federa­
tion is offering summer tours/ to Rus­
sia, a European tour for students of< 
social work and an expedition to li­
braries and literary landmarks of 
western Europe for student librarians.
Further information may he had by 
communicating with National Stu­
dent Federation of America at 2 West 
Forty-sixth street, New York City.
ROCHESTER UNIVERSITY
MEN GIVE GIRLS “TIPS”
Feeling that it is easier to tell a 
woman “what not to do” than “what 
to do,” members of the men’s college 
of the University o£ Rochester have 
assumed the role of big brother to 
their fair sisters of the Women’s col­
lege. "
Through the medium of the Canv 
• ,pus, college undergraduate publica-y 
" tion, the men are offering their advice 
to all co-eds—free.
Some advice has been offered in 
the following list of “d'on’ts,” which 
appeared in the_ Campus:
¦ Don’t look over our shoulder to read 
our newspaper. Co buy one—they 
only cost a few cents.
Don’t say you “just adore” any girl 
who is your rival.
Don’t accept an invitation to have 
a sandwich and then order a whole 
meal.
Don't l^eep us waiting more than a 
half hour, especially when a torbe- 
paid-for chariot awaits without.
On -the way to a picture show, 
don’t rave about what a wonderful 
musical comedy is in town.
Don’t say you are reducing—and 
then eat everything in sight.
Don’t ask us whether or not to let 
your hair grow.
Don’t explain that you just like to 
chew gum anyway.
Don’t poise your cigaret gracefully 
and then puff the smoke out before 
you have time to taste it.
Don’t giggle at • a beautiful and 
serious moment in a play just be­
cause you can’t understand it.
Don't be afraid to accept a date at 
the last minute, especially when you 
want it. We know we’re supposed to 
think you’re popular.
By SARA E. WONDERS 
| April 10—
i Jasclio Heifetz, celebrated violinist, 
appeared in Carnegie Music Hall on 
I Tuesday, April 10. Since his last ap­
pearance hi Pittsburgh two years ago, 
he has made a world tour, giving 
concerts in 1G countries, crossing the 
Atlantic six times and the Mediterra­
nean three times.
- His program opened with the Vitali 
“Chaconne,” followed by Lalo’s Sym­
phonic Espagnole. A group of shorter 
j numbers followed, including “Estrel- 
lita” by Ponce-Heifetz; Schubert’s 
“Dondo;” Debussy’s “La Fille aux 
Cheveux de Lin;” and “Perpetuiim 
Mobile by Novacelc. The closing 
numbers were Nocturn in E flat by 
Chopin, and Introduction and Tarau- 
telle by Sarasate. •
April 13—
A feature of the concert held April 
13 in Carnegie Music Hall for the 
benefit of the miners’ relief fund of 
the joint relief administration was the 
presentation for the first time in this 
country of Vaughn William’s work, 
“The Shepherds of the Delectable 
Mountains,” .
The operetta, which was directed by 
Ferdinand Fillion of the Fillion violin 
studios, is a pastoral episode founded 
upon. Bunyan’s “Pilgrim’s Progress."
The role of the pilgrim was sung by 
Reese R. Reese, a Welshman and per­
sonal friend of the Welsh composer,1 
Vaughn Williams. The work featured 
the Tuesday Muusical Club chorus as 
well as a group of well-known singers. 
The singers included Reed Kennedy, 
Arthur Davis, Adam McNaughton, 
Reese R. Reese, Vincent Kroen, and 
Fern Goitre Fillion.
April 16—
Gaylord Yost, violinist, and Earl 
Mitchell, accompanist, presented an 
all Brahms Sonata program in Carne­
gie Lecture Hall last evening.
April 17—
The P. M. I. String Orchestra under 
the direction of Charles N. Boyd will 
give a program at the Henry C. Frick 
School this evening. The soloists will 
be Miss Margaret Turner, violinist, 
and .Helen Bigge,, soprano. There is 
no charge for admission to this con­
cert and the public is invited.
Two^reserved seat tickets for the 
P. M. I. Chorus performance of 
‘Mikado” at Carnegie Music Hall on 
May 2 may be had1 by sending a 
stamped and addressed envelope to 
the Institute office. There is no 
charge for the tickets for this per­
formance, but reserved seat tickets 
will' be necessary for admission.
May 2—
Soloists in the performance of 
"Mikado” to be given at Carnegie 
Music Hall on May 2 by the P. M. I. 
Chorus will be Romaine Smith Rus­
sell, Viola K, Byrgerson, Edith L. 
Darnberger, Cass War'd Whitney, Rob­
ert Owrey, Raymond T. Griffin, and 
Roy Strayer. Frank Kennedy is the 
pianist and Charles N, Boyd, director.
ANNUAL “OPEN HOUSE"
THIS FRIDAY, APRIL 20
FINDS CARNEGIE HOST
Hess And Bayne Talk 
At Last Civil Seminar
History of Holland Tunnels 
and Merits of Zoning 
Fully Discussed
How to Economize
Revise the weather and save $500,- 
* 000,000 a year, says one university pro­
fessor. Revise the alphabet and save 
$1,000,000,000 a year, says another uni­
versity professor.' But abolish them 
both and save the whole cost of living 
and learning.—New York ; Evening 
World
OTG!FAAOADY7:30P 
. CIL©TIffllES
SHOWING AT 
WILLIAM PENN 
HOTEL 
Monday and Tuesday, 
April 30 and May 1 
Representative 
Mr. “Gib” Collins
$34.50 and $42.50 
Tailored to your order.
Na LUXENBERG S Bro.
37 Union Square, New York 
1 Btnwt 16ih 9 mf* Sts.
(Continued from Page One) 
in time to follow the guides on the 
organized tours will be not be denied 
seeing the schools in progress. Signs 
will be placed in all corridors. These 
signs will not only lead guests 
around the differeiit rooms of the 
building, but they will also indicate 
where the special features annunced 
will be located.
Yearly the brick bungalow made by 
the. department of building construc­
tion in the masonry and bricklaying 
shop and furnished by one of the 
down town, department stores has at­
tracted prob -bly more people than 
any other feature. The lighting ef­
fects used to show off Machinery 
Hall Tower are very beautiful. In­
novations that promise to attract a 
great number of people are the radio 
program in the rest room of the 
men’s gym, the newly organized de­
partment of automobile maintenance 
and operation, to be demonstrated in 
the Commons, and one of the largest 
and most complete printing depart­
ments in America, to which much 
material has been added during the 
last year.
1931 PLEBE PROM FAILS TO
COME UP TO STANDARD
(Continued From Page One.) 
for the rest of the year are:
Those exempted in Margaret Mor­
rison are as follows: Mary Gamer,
Sally 'Hall, Ruth Kellog, Mary Law­
ton, Virginia Page, Lucille Ross, El­
sie Terry and Elsa Weber. The Sci- 
ence-industries exemptions included 
J. Garrett, M. Kusevich, G. John, A. 
Long; S. Lustenberger, H. Talbert 
and J. Vonfeld. The Arts School ex­
emptions included C. Thompson, L. 
Gilbert, R. Newell, S. Wein, G. Mc­
Farland and R. Kirby.
GLEE CLUB GIVES JOINT
CONCERT WITH P. C. W. CLUB
(Continued From Page One.) 
ard in student leadership, conducting 
every performance of the club, in­
cluding the Home Concert. This 
marks the close of his fifth year of 
activity in the musical clubs. He is a 
member of Acacia fraternity and 
Phi Mu Alpha, musical honorary. 
Last year his compositions for the 
Arts Ball Show received much favor­
able comment on and off the campus. 
He graduates this year in Public 
School Supervision.
At the last civil seminar, held Wed­
nesday. 'IS. two very interesting pa­
pers were presented by Mr. H. J. Hess 
and Mr. R. C. Bayne. Mr. Hfess’ pa­
per was entitled “The New Holland 
Tunnel and Related Traffic Problems,” 
while Mr. Bayne discussed zoning.
In discussing the Holland Tunnels a 
complete history from the original 
planning to the present .finished job, 
was'given, together with a discussion 
of the construction methods and the 
differeiit engineering problems which 
constantly arise on such a great feat 
as this. A few facts concerning these 
tunnels follow: The tunnels are twin
cast iron tubes. 29 feet, external diam­
eter, which will accommodate two 
lines of traffic in each direction, each 
tube having a 20-foot roadway and a 
two-foot sidewalk. The tunnels are 
approximately 9,000 feet long. The 
estimated cost was slightly over 2S% 
million dollars, but the actual cost 
exceeds this figure by quite a bit. The 
ventilating system gives 42 complete 
changes of air every hour. 2G,000 cars 
passed through the tunnel the first 
day they were opened to the public. 
The tunnel proper was constructed by 
Booth and Flynn, the builders of the 
Liberty Tubes. Two successive chief 
engineers died while this projegt was 
being carried- through, the tunnels be­
ing named after the first, Mr. Hol­
land. The speed limit is 30 miles an 
hour. A policeman is located every 
4S0 feet on the sidewall^ and has di­
rect phone connections with either 
portal.
In his discussion on zoning Mr. 
Bayne pointed out the advantages,' the 
resulting conditions, methods and 
necessity of zoning. Zoning is prac­
ticed chiefly to Increase the economic 
values of the city property and im­
prove the health of the citizens of a 
city. The grouping- of public build­
ings, the effective planning of streets 
and the providing of open air spaces 
in crowded districts are all essential 
in accomplishing the purpose of zon­
ing. There are many methods, of- zon­
ing a city, the most important being: 
Class zoning, height zoning and area 
zoning. In the case'' of height zoning 
the city is divided into the following 
districts: (1) Heavy industrial,- in
which almost any manufacturing con­
cern can locate, but no one except 
watchmen, etc., are allowed to reside 
in this district; (2) Height •Industrial 
zoning, in which the smaller indus­
trial concerns may locate, such indus­
tries as steel mills, etc., being ruled 
out (2) Commercial district, in which 
retail stores, etc., may locate; (4) 
Residential class A, In which hotels, 
apartments, etc., may locate; (5) Res­
idential class B, in which only single 
house dwellings may locate. When 
height zoning is used the city is di­
vided into five different district: (1) 
Buildings having a hoight of less than 
25 feet; (2) .Buildings having a height 
of less than 35 feet; (3) Buildings up 
to eight stories; (4) Buildings up to 10 
stories; (5)’ Eighteen stories is the 
highest structure allowed. In area 
zoning the zones1 are determined by 
the number of square feet of front, 
side and back yard. Of course it is 
understood to Pittsburgh, other cities 
may put on different restructions.
REVISION OF FRATERNITY | Dr. Langmuir of General 
P. 0. RATINGS ANNOUNCED1 Electric To Lecture Here
Alumni Also See Need For 
New Type Of Magazine
That alumni as well as the student 
body feel a need for a new magazine 
is shown by a letter received some 
time ago from Mrs. R. L>. Wharton, 
secretary of the Golden Gate Clan.
In this letter Mrs. Wharton states 
what she believes ,are the essentials 
which the new magazine should em­
body. As near as we can ascertain, 
Mrs. Wharton’s ideals are similar to 
those of the staff of the new maga­
zine.
Mrs. Wharton’s letter was as fol­
lows:
'I have often wondered if another 
sort of magazine, based not on the so­
cial or athletic activities of the school, 
but coming- directly from the founda­
tion of things there, that is the class­
room and laboratory, might not be a 
wonderful unit in school, life, not only 
setting forth among students and fac­
ulty the results of research and study, 
but advertising in the homes of stu­
dents what the school ¡is capable of 
producing in a multitude of practical 
forms. For example, why not a sec­
tion devoted to practical art, another 
from the electrical department giving 
short articles in their field; one sec­
tion edited by the chemistry depart­
ment. The idea being in each case 
an application of knowledge from 
those fields to practical use In tile 
every-day business of life. What In­
stitution of learning could more fitly 
carry on the publication of such a 
mass of useful knowledge than a tech­
nical school like the Carnegie Insti- 
ute of Technology?”
Physic if He’s Sick
One day the new physics instructpr 
came Into our assembly room and 
said: "All those who expect to take 
any physics this year, come with 
me.” Then he wondered why we 
laughed.—Boys' Life.
Beta Sigma Rho, Sigma Alpha Ep­
silon, Delta Mu and Delta Up- 
silon Now Lead List
. At a recent meeting of the Inter­
fraternity Council it was decided to 
make all recognized fraternities on 
the campus eligible to competition for 
the scholarship cup.
The following is a correct list of 
rating, which has been changed due 
to the above action.
Fraternities:
1. Beta Sigma Rho................3.S4
Ife 2. Sigma Alpha Epsilon.. .3.69
| 3. Delta Mu ......................3.6?
^ 4. Delta Upsilon...............3.66
i 5. Beta Tlieta Pi..............3.642
6. Phi Kappa Psi...................3.640
i 7. Alpha Sigma Phi..............3.61
S. Phi Kappa .........................3.55
| 9. Delta Tau Delta...........3.54
•'i 10. Delta Phi Delta...........3.52
Bjjf 11. Sigma Nu ......................3.51
‘ • 12. Pi Kappa Alpha...........3.50
|| 13. Kappa Sigma ............3.41
14. Alpha Tau Omega.........3.40
15. Theta Xi .........................3.38
16.- Kappa Sigma Rlio..........3.37
17. Acacia .............................3.24
,'. IS. Phi Sigma Kappa.........3.20
19. Sigma Phi Epsilon.......3.10
.This relisting of the fraternities 
places Beta Sigma Rho first leading 
by 15 points. The Sigma Alpha Epsi­
lon fraternity is now in second place.
CAST CHOSEN FOR
“WEDDING BELLS”
CAMPUS WEEK SHOW
“Electrical Discharges In Gases at 
Low Pressures” is the general subject 
of three lectures Dr. Irving Langmulr, 
assistant, director of the general re­
search laboratories of the General 
Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y., 
will present; in the Union under the 
auspices of the Carnegie Institute on 
April 30, May I and May 2, Monday, 
Tuesday and Wednesday evenings at 
8:30.
Not only is Dr. Langmuir renowned 
because of his research studies in the 
development of gas filled tungsten 
lamps, electron discharge apparatus 
and condensation high vacuum pumps, 
but also, as one who has received 
many awards of distinction, among 
the most recent of which is the Perkin 
Medal for achievements in applied 
chemistry.
The lectures have no- admission fee. 
Nor have tickets of admittance been 
distributed as the lectures are to be 
unlimitedly free to the public.
(Continued From Page One.) 
soon as possible with A1 Brown. In 
order that. the students be given 
every opportunity for securing the 
best seats, it is requested that orders 
be placed within the next week. Or­
ders together with remittances may be 
sent to A1 Brown at 435 Neville street.
A call is being made to ambitious 
salesmen who would be in interested 
in selling ads for the show program. 
A commission will be paid for all ad­
vertising secured. Thoso interested 
are asked to communicate with Mr. 
Brown.
Beginning of the End
When you have reached the period 
of existence when you have become 
unbiased, unprejudiced and open- 
minded, then you will hear members 
of your family say that all has been 
done for you that science knows, and 
the papers will give an account of 
your funeral rites within a short time. 
— Pickens County (Ala.) Herald
Has One Good Point
Th£ person who thinks all others 
are fools is at least ¡1 very safe mo
THISTLE BUSINESS STAFF
TO HOLD MEETING TODAY
The Business Staff of the 1928 
Thistle Board will hold an important 
meeting today in the Publications of­
fice, Room 12, Industries Building. 
The meeting will be held at 11:30 a. 
m. If an assembly is scheduled for 
that time, the meeting will be held at 
12:30. Every salesman and sales­
woman is requested to bring his sales- 
boolcs and receipts from subscriptions 
sold. Those who have sold advertis­
ing spaco in the Thistle are also re­
quested to report their sales.
It is important that all' tills infor­
mation bo in at this time in order 
that the financial plans for the Thistle 
may bo carried through with the ne­
cessary progress. Thoso who find it 
impossible to attend are asked to call 
Tom Cannon either at the Sigma Al­
pha Epsilon house or at Fairfax 9644.
SCABBARD AND BLADE SOCIETY 
TO HOLD MEETING TONIGHT
A meeting of Scabbard and Blade 
national honorary military fraternity 
will bo held tonight at 9:00 p. m. iu 
the military department. All mem­
bers of the organization are urgently 
requested to be present at this time 
as there is much important business 
to be discussed.
Spring
Display
at SK1BO INN
Monday and Tuesday 
April 16 and 17
$29.50$34.50
BALTIMORE
suits my taste
like nobod/s business
I KNOW what I like in a pipe, and what I like 
is good old Prince Albert. Fragrant as can be. 
Cool and mild and long-burning, right to the 
bottom of the bowl. Welcome as the week-end 
reprieve. Welcome . . . and satisfying!
No matter how often I load up and light up,
I never tire of good old P. A. Always friendly. 
Always companionable. P. A. suits my taste. 
I’ll say it does. Take my tip, Fellows, and load 
up from a tidy red tin.
FRINGE ALBERT
— no other tobacco is like it!
The tidy red 
packed with
tin that's 
pipe-joy.
© 1928, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Winaton-Salom, N. C.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE SIXTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY. APRIL 17. 1928
I lie curve of Timken acceptance rises swiftly 
throughout the industries. Modern machin­
ery of all types is designed around Timken 
Hearings by prominent equipment manufac­
turers in every field.
The strong and universal trend to Timkens 
is accounted for by the fact that they are con­
sidered more than anti-friction bearings. They 
assure greater endurance, because of their 
exclusive combination of Timken tapered 
construction, Timken \mryayMlte :tyk-lo 
X144,^ and Timken-made electric steel. That 
means utmost thrust and shock capacity— 
greater load carrying area—compactness— 
simplicity—as well as full protection against 
radial loads and friction.
Timkens are inevitable from the engineering 
standpoint because of their economic impor­
tance to Industry.. As an engineer you will 
be more and more concerned with Timken Tapered Roller Bearings.
THE TIMKEN ROLLER BEARING CO. 
CANTON, O'HIO
Applications are limited from Graduate Electrical and 
Mechanical Engineers Ambitious to Employ their 
Professional Training in '¡he Industrial Sales Field.
SCHOOLS STUDY DRINK'S
EFFECT ON EFFICIENCY
Chapters in Textbooks Used at Chi­
cago Point Out Evils of Alcohol.
Chicago.—The Illinois statute re­
quiring temperance instruction in 
public schools lias had a decided in­
fluence upon the writing of Chica­
go's textbooks. Books used in physi­
ology and general science classes of 
the sixth grade and junior high 
schools contain chapters dealing 
specifically with the evils of alcohol, 
said Joseph Gonnelly, assistant su­
perintendent in charge of junior high 
schools.
Mr. Gonnelly cited the titles of 
chapters in three books he regarded 
as typical. A text used in general 
science classes has a chapter headed 
"Alcohol and Habit Forming Drugs 
and Their Effect on Efficiency." It 
deals with the broader aspects of the 
liquor problem and the harmful ef­
fects of its use upon society as well 
as the individual. A physiology 
book in use devotes a chapter to “Al­
cohol, an Enemy of Body, Mind and 
Morals."
Principals in Chicago schools have 
a range of choice among texts recom­
mended by the Board of Education
VARSITY CROSS-COUNTRY 
SCHEDULE
Season of 1928
October 6—Geneva—Here. 
October 13—Thiel—(Here. 
October 20—Open.
October 27—Pitt—There. 
November 3 — Westminster- 
There.
November 10—Open. 
November 17—Grove City- 
Here.
*J* *»- *1« *$? ?}? »$? *5* * * * * •
authorities, and the three ,cited by 
Mr. Gonnelly, lie said, are examples 
of the types, from which they choose. 
In these books, he said, the material 
is up to date and some of it deals 
with economic as well as physiolog­
ical results of the use of alcohol.
Instruction as to the harmful ef­
fects of tobacco is sometimes fur­
nished to the schools by the Anti- 
Cigarette. League, said Morgan G. 
Hogge, another assistant superin­
tendent. The. league from time to 
time, sends out'lecturers who address 
assemblies on the evil of smoking 
habits and occasionally distribute 
pamphlets on the subject.
Spring Training Camp 
Drawing To A Close
First Scrimmage Held Last 
Friday; Picking Men to 
Fill Vacant Positions
With one week of spring training 
camp over, the football candidate’s 
are recovering from their first scrim­
mage, held last Friday. Practice will 
last one more week with the possibil­
ity of several additional days, the 
week following.
For the past week now the unde­
feated freshmen have been cavorting
Carnegie Range Records 
SEASON 1928
(Individual)
Dorothy .Roy.......................................................................2-100—Prone
Alice Bright.......................................................................2-100—Prone
Helen Bright.......................................¦. i........................2-100—Prone
Tom Lippert....................................................................1-100—SittingTom Lippert....................................................................1-97 —Kneeling
Leo Kasehagen................................................................2-100—Prone
Jack Stine........................................................................1-89 —Standing
Weatlierell........................................................................1-89 —StandingLeo Kasehagen............................................................... 374 (four position)
Leo Kasehagen............................................................... 278 (three position)
Tom Lippert................................................................... 278 (three position)
(Team)
Girls’ Team.....................Third place N. R. A., National Intercollegiate
Varsity...........................................................Third place N. R. A., Sectional
High Girls’ team score........................................................... 496 out of 500
High Varsity score ..............................................................1835 out of 2000
High Varsity score ..............................................................1363 out of 1500Tom Lippert...................................Winner national N. R. A. Prone Tyro
Student Accounts Welcome
No Minimum Balance Requirement
NO SERVICE CHARGE
Forbes National Bank
“Your Home Bank”
FIFTH AND OAKLAND PITTSBURGH
R. K. Mellon, President 
W. S.. Phillips, Cashier 
Thomas 11 . McCaijdless, Assistant Cashier
Capital, $300,000.00Surplus, $300,000.00
Ilowiiiil (Inrpnter.
around with Captain I-Iarpster and his 
team-mates under the watchful- eye 
of Coach Waddell. In the first scrim­
mage they lived up to everything ex­
pected of them. For the first few days 
the time was spent in passing, run­
ning drills, • chalk talks and general 
instructions. In all probability Coach 
Steffen will be on deck at the end 
of the week to take charge in person. 
Most of the holes, left by graduating 
players are in the line, where Ander­
son and Cowan dropped out at guard, 
English at end, and Cooper at tackle. 
Wertenberger, halfback, was also 
lost. The great problem is to fit the 
new players to these positions, which 
is one of the objects of spring train­
ing camp.
The football men have added a 
charging machine to their equipment, 
this being the first time in Plaid foot­
ball history that such a machine has 
been used. Coaches Steffen and Wad­
dell figured it would be a fine thing 
for the linesmen, and at the close of 
the 1927 campaign it was definitely 
decided to obtain the apparatus. Mr. 
Pl’outs of the patternmaking depart­
ment constructed the machine, turn­
ing out a product which ranks with 
the best that couldvbe bought any­
where.
The Oak Family
There ore probably . sou species oi 
I lie onk tree, almost all of which hay* 
been found in t|jp northern hemls
Who Should Go To College?
ROLLER BEARINGS
By »HARRY E. STONE 
Dean of Men, West Virginia University
1 had just addressed the graduat­
ing class of nearly 100 boys and girls 
in a reasonably progressive West Vir­
ginia high school on the subject of 
education and the country’s need for 
trained men of broad vision and ca­
pacity. I had pointed out the increas­
ing complexity of our social and econ­
omic life. 1 had presented all' this as 
a challenge to the youth of today.
The president of the local school 
board followed "'hie. He was a suc­
cessful man—a man interested iii edu­
cation, and a man who has been suc­
cessful in his own affairs. He was a 
professional man. Looking squarely 
at the graduating class, sons and 
daughters kof his own 1’elloW towns­
men, he said: “Not all of you should
go to college!” Of course, lie knew 
that some of these young people could 
not go under any circumstances. Two 
had recently taken upon themselves 
the support of wives. Others are 
from homes where their earnings are 
badly needed. Yet lie meant to say 
that not all who have the money to 
finance a college course should go to 
college. Was he right?
The same idea was more emphat­
ically stated last winter by a well- 
known author who told an audience 
o&'College students and their friends 
that, in his judgment, one-half of the 
students in American colleges should 
be elsewhere. 1 recall a magazine 
heading, ‘‘Four Years in College 
Wasted,” which startled many parents 
who did not know either the inner 
life of the college campiys or just what 
constitutes a wise balance of interests 
during the four years of college life.
My attention has just been called 
to the- anonymous "Confessions of a 
College Dean” who, 1 think, is un­
duly pessimistic, if not even careless 
with facts. Specifically this dean, or 
rather, dean of men, repeats the well- 
known refrain that vast numbers 
should be summarily dismissed from 
our colleges, that hordes of students 
are wftli us merely because it is 
fashionable or because parents do 
not know what else to do with their 
children when they have completed 
the high school courses.
A former superintendent of schools 
who now' gets out among the people 
of rural and small town communities 
of our State told me that lie had met 
not a few parents who because of 
rumors, newspaper and magazine 
articles, and actual' reports of wrong­
doing in American colleges are be­
coming loth to have their, sons and 
daughters leave home in search of 
higher education.
As to Deans and Parents.
The query naturally arises: Is the
college a place to which should be 
sent only those students who have de­
veloped a burning enthusiasm for 
things intellectual, who have attained 
perfection in splf-mastery, and who 
are liot interested in dancing, automo­
biles, football and fraternities? Or 
is college a place where .those who 
have • attained reasonable progress in 
the art of living, during high school 
days, may be sent for further devel­
opment by precept, example, and even 
-by trial, in the art of living a sane, 
balanced life? I am of the opinion 
that we deans and parents are in­
clined to forget the rocky road of our 
own apprenticeship in living.
Before me is a letter written by the 
editor of one of our great household 
magazines—a magazine whose circu­
lation long ago passed the million 
mark. He asks concerning the money 
cost of a college education. He calls 
attention to a recent article in a 
magazine that is generally conserva­
tive and of the sort that appeals to 
intelligent readers. He fears that 
the writer of this article by asserting 
that no one can go to college for less 
than $1500 a year will “blast the 
hopes of a multitude of parents and of 
young men and young women.” He 
refers to the article as “a general at­
tack upon colleges i\nd college educa­
tion.'’ He calls it “the most disturb­
ing thing of its kind that I have ever 
read.” He deplores the effect of the 
article, especially on those who do 
not have tlie patience to read it 
through, in that ‘‘many will doubtless 
agree with the author’s apparent con­
tention that time spent in college is 
time wasted, while many others will 
be misled by his cost figures.”
At the 1927 Brown University com­
mencement John D. Rockefeller, Jr., 
launched a move against philan­
thropy in higher education. It is his 
contention that college students 
should pay in tuition and fees the en­
tire cost of their college education. 
Commenting on the stand taken by 
this member of one of America’s most 
philanthropic families, many leaders 
of thought are boldly asserting that 
many go to college to improve their 
social' standing, to have a good time— 
that a goodly proportion of the 800,000 
in American colleges and universities 
today are idlers or lazy sons of 
wealthy parents. Many are agreeing 
that some action should be taken to 
prevent large numbers, of high, school 
graduates from ever entering college. 
Are they right? If so, who should go 
and who should not go to college? 
And if they don’t go, what else can 
they do? How can a father tell 
whether his son or daughter is a good 
college security? What is the pur­
pose and what is the value of a col­
lege training?
As to Money Cost.
Before discussing the major ques­
tion, let me say just a word about 
the money cost of going to college. 
It is my practice, to interview briefly 
every man in West Virginia Univer­
sity at the close of ftiis freshman’ 
year concerning expenses, amount of 
study required by his course, and 
general reactions. For the past three 
years our freshmen have answered 
the following question: “What have
your expenses been for the entire 
school year (freshman year at West 
Virginia University), including tuition 
and fees, room rent, board, clothing, 
books, recreation, incidental expenses, 
j railroad fares and all other expenses 
j for the entire school year (winter 
session of nine months) ?” They have 
given their entire expenses and they 
range from $400 to $1300. The aver­
age for about 500 cases studied is 
about $75 per month for students 
| whose parents live in other cities, and 
j about $25 per month for students who 
j live at home and do , not have board« 
; room rent, or railroad fare to pay. 
Many of our students work at our 
I cafeteria and at boarding clubs and 
i fraternities for their board. The cost 
| of board at the cafeteria averages $1 
j to $1.25 for three meals. Practically 
all of our unmarried men pay $2.50 
I per week for room rent. Some who 
room alone pay $3, and a few pay $4 
! and $5.
1 At the outset, let it be clear that 
when a boy or girl goes to college it 
j is not for intellectual development 
j alone. This is important. We may 
grant that it is of first importance. 
Yet who would think it wise for a 
| college student to permit his social 
rnature or his spiritual nature to be- 
| come dwarfed during four years spent 
! with books and lectures? I have 
1 known students who, ' while doing 
j creditable work in their “studies, grew 
I also in individuality and power 
( through extra curricular activities like 
I debating, editing the college news- 
j paper, playing on an athletic team, or 
; organizing and leading religious meet- 
j ings. I
| Colleges differ. In general, their 
j aim is to provide broad culture and 
I a foundation for later professional 
j study and life work. The college of 
arts and sciences is not a vocational 
j school, although direct preparation 
I for entry into newspaper work, ac-
• counting, teaching and other occupa- 
j tions may be studied there. In state 
universities the' justification for pub- 
lie taxation to support the college 
j without requiring more than a small 
j semester fee is the belief that college 
| graduates make better citizens. The 
I college of arts and sciences is the 
; place where young men and women 
get their pre-vocational work in his- 
i tory, English, chemistry, and -other 
i basic studies. It is the one higher 
educational institution in which edu* 
j cation for the right use of leisure 
J time through the development of 
power to make discriminating choices 
is stressed.
j For a father to decide that his boy 
should not go to a liberal arts col- 
j lege does not mean that he should 
| not continue his education by attend- 
l ing a technical school, a trade school,
|a college of agriculture or a college 
I of engineering, to any one of which 
.lie may go directly from high school.
For Honest Consideration.
. To decide that a boy should not at- 
| tempt the college entrance board ex- 
! animations for admission to Prince* 
j ton or Brown University does not 
j mean that this same boy would not 
do well in some small college not re- 
i quiring examinations for entrance, or 
i in the liberal arts college of his own 
j state .university.
! To decide that a boy or girl should 
not enter a profession does not mean
Cross Country Varsity 
Men Eligible For Meet
Council Bars Attendance of 
Dormitory Men to Frater­
nities During Migratory
The last meeting held by the In­
terfraternity Council last Saturday 
morning in the Carnegie “Y" club 
room brought up many important 
points for discussion and approval* 
The points brought up were those 
concerning campus week which is not 
so far off.
A great number of, the fraternities 
have not as yet paid up their bills to 
the council and are requested to do so 
at their nearest convenience. The 
first of the campus week questions 
brought up for discussion was con­
cerning the migratory dance on the 
evening of May 2. The dances will 
be held from 9 till 1:30 in each re­
spective fraternity. The council is tak­
ing great efforts to avoid the intrusion 
of outside,men as was the case last yeai; 
and all the years in which the migra­
tory was held. The council also 
placed a ban on allowing dormitory 
men to attend the migratory. The 
vote was unanimous concerning this 
point. There will be no house decor­
ations as was the custom in previous 
years. The council at this meeting 
goes on record as favoring the time 
for thte migratory from 9 till 2. It 
has also been decided that no frater­
nity shall hold a tea dance on Satur­
day afternoon, May 5.
The next point up for discussion 
was the eligibility of varsity track 
and cross country men for the inter­
fraternity meet. . No varsity track 
letter men are allowed to compete. 
Cross country men, it has been de­
cided, are allowed to run as was cus­
tomary in previous years. It lias been 
decided that the cup to be awarded 
to the winner of the track events 
shall be larger than that to be award­
ed to the relay winner.
The council also goes on record at 
this meeting as favoring putting men 
through Hell Week although ineligible 
at school. Each respective fraternity 
will use their discretion as to the 
men so put through; It has finally 
been settled that the eligibility rule 
for the fraternity scholarship -.cup 
shall be as follows: a fraternity in or­
der to be eligible should have as an 
average for the two school semesters 
fifteen men and should at no time 
have less than ten men.
The Sweepstakes will be run on the 
old course as was customary in pre­
vious years.
that lie will not profit by the pursuit 
of such college studies as economics, 
sociology, college physics, college 
chemistry or political science. It 
does not mean that an investment 
that will widen the intellectual hori­
zon and enrich life will be unwise.
Who should go to college? In my 
judgment, every high school gradu­
ate who during his high school 
course has shown mental capacity 
which in the judgment of his teach­
ers. is sufficient to enable him to do 
college work, whose economic status 
will permit, and who does not have 
some other definite plan that offers 
educational opportunity for the years 
that follow high school graduation. .
A high school graduate may enter 
a bank as a messenger and by ability, 
honesty and persistence, work his 
way up to a position of responsibility. 
A high school graduate may enter 
certain lines of business without a 
college education and succeed. He 
may by home study and reading gain 
both culture and breadth. The lack of 
a college foundation, however, may 
be-sufficient later in life to bar him 
from realizing an ambition to enter 
some profession for which college 
studies are pre-requisite.
Colleges are crowded. Open advo­
cates of increasing college tuition 
and of making it more difficult to 
gain college education are plentiful. 
It may be true that too many who 
have no desire for things intellectual 
are going to college. Certainly no 
high school graduate who has the 
ambitionwto go to college for even one 
year should hesitate to make the in­
vestment. Most assuredly the youth 
who has not learned to manage him­
self and control his appetites during 
high school days, whose high schoor 
studies have been distasteful, and 
whose grades have been low, should 
think twice before going to any col­
lege.
C. S. MOR.
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS,
GEORGE ABRAMS
DEALER IN SECOND HAND 
CLOTHES
1534 Central Avenue
OAKLAND’S 
RESTAURANT 
—for— 
CARNEGIE 
STUDENTS
DASCHBACH’S |
3808-10 Forbes Street j

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, APRIL 17, 1928THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE SEVEN
On the Plaid Screen
BY FREDERICK D. WOODS
Yearly Meet Started Yester­
day and Will End Tomor­
row: Two Cups Given
YOUR “TYPE" DECIDES IT 
The question to be answered first 
when you're choosing under-fash­
ions is, how sylph-like are you? No 
matter what the answer, you'll find 
just the sort of thing you need, in 
youthful “Felice” garments with 
harmonizing bandeaux.
GARTER BELT, $3.95 
A lovely bit of peach-glow satin, 
with stitching and ribbon-trimming 
of a heavenly shade of blue. This 
will hold up the stockings, and 
keep a chiffon frock from clinging.
SEMI-GIRDLE, $3.95 
Up in the front and down in the 
back—a comfortable little bit of a 
thing that lends just enough re­
straight to tummy, and hips for an 
average size figure.
The music may be rotten, and the boy 
friend may be a total loss, but the even­
ing may still be a glorious success—pro­
vided one looks one’s best, and there are 
plenty of admiring eyes about.
Be sure then, that you are looking your 
best. No wrinkled stockings—no stray 
shoulder straps—no hint of carelessness 
is to be tolerated with formal dress—And 
in the evening, more than any other time, 
it’s the UNDER layer that makes or 
mars perfection!
GIRDLE, $4.95 
Strips of moire ribbon and elas­
tic, which, without boning, definite­
ly restrain and mould the figure, 
without being in the least stiff or 
uncomfortable. In lovely shades.
—Third Floor—INTER-SCHOLASTIC
MbET HERE SOON
Athletes From Four States to Vie 
For Sectional Honors and 
Prizes
Saturday, the fifth day o£ May, will ; 
he a gala day for Carnegie, not be- i 
.cause it will afford an opportunity for \ 
students to recuperate from the ef- j 
fects of the two days preceding, | 
known as Campus Week, but because ! 
of the annual Inter-Scliolastic Track j 
Meet which will be held under the i 
auspices of the Athletic Association ! 
on that date. In truth, the track ] 
events will resemble the Amsterdam 1 
Olympic games, not only because of i 
the sectional honors involved but also 
on account of the great number of 
scantily clad athletes who will vie 
each other in the various events pe­
culiar to track meets. Invitations 
have been sent to most of the ath­
letically inclined high schools of Penn­
sylvania, Ohio, New York and West 
Virginia and judging from the num­
ber of entries already received it 
seems certain that nearly a thousand 
athletes will be sent from the differ­
ent schools., *
This meet has become an estab­
lished .institution at Carnegie, each 
year growing both in the number of 
men present and in the excellent rec­
ords established by them. Many 
schools of neighboring states look for­
ward to the Carnegie meet as an op­
portunity to show their prowess to 
the best advantage and to the great­
est number of people.
Besides the joy of actual competi­
tion and victory, the meet offers re­
ward of a more material sort in the 
form of handsome' trophies and indi­
vidual medals. The team scoring the 
greatest number of points in all the 
events will receive a large silver tro- 
phyi while the winners of first, second 
and third places in each event will 
receive gold, silver, or bronze medals, 
according to their standing in the 
event.
The system of scoring will he tlie 
. same as that usually employed, ex­
cept that the first five places will 
count in the final- scoring. The school 
winning first place will receive five 
points and tlie school winning fifth 
place, one point. This system tends 
to bring out the best all around teams 
in the meet instead of favoring the 
schools which excell in but three or 
four events. The team which places 
consistently, even though it does not 
take all firsts or seconds, will pro­
bably be crowned the victor.
The relay race will not count in the 
final scoring of points but will be con­
ducted as a separate event. The 
schools will be grouped into four 
classes, A, B, C and D, according to 
the time in which they consistently 
negotiate the distance.' Thus the com­
petition will be keener in each divi-
By BRIGGS
WALTE - You RPLOY NZLB 
M COUGH INJ A CARLOAD 
OF MINe.. You REALLY 
PcFDY YP wTE Ohi
HenrY, i want to put , 
You Wisp TO A YJOMOERFUL 
ClöARETTe,, .THEY'RE AS / 
SMOOTH AS THE OLD f 
^STVJFF VAJË useo ,r 
. To GET ,---------/
I’LL STICK To MY )
BRAND CHRIS,. 1 CAN ' 
vSmoKÇ ’em FROM MôRnJi/06, 
Till Might vUithout a J 
.Single Throat-Tickle fAGE LIMITATIONS
BEING REMOVED,
EDUCATOR SAYS
Philadelphia, Pa.—New systems by 
which greater progress is being 
made in elementary education were 
outlined at Schoolmen’s Week, just 
ended at the University of Pennsyl­
vania. More than 3,000 educators 
from all parts of the country attend­
ed the sessions.
Age limitations are being removed 
from juvenile education, Prof. Bird 
T. Baldwin of the University of Iowa 
told the conference. He declared that 
within/ the next five years children 
from ¡2 to 5 years old would be re­
ceiving “pre-school'' training.
“Pre-School” Training.
The “pre-sch'ool” training has been 
in operation in connection with the 
University of Iowa for seven years. 
Dr. Balwwin said, and has proved 
very successful.
“After one year of this training it, 
is found that there is a marked de­
velopment,” Dr. Baldwin, continued. 
"The social contact with other chil­
dren has been one of the most bene­
ficial agencies. Children learn to 
adapt themselves to the ways of other 
children. After training in such a 
school, a child 6 years old may devel­
op a vocabulary as high as 3,000 
words.”
Skipping Grades Upheld.
The practice that obtains in many 
.elementary schools of skipping grades 
was discussed by Dr. John C. Al- 
mack, professor of education at Ice­
land Stanford University; Calif.
“The tendency is to group children 
according to their ability,” said Dr. 
Almack. “This method works best in 
the larger school. In small schools, 
where class instruction is used, abil­
ity grouping is still attained by 
means of extra promotions. Under 
the plan the children are sent ahead 
a term, or semester, whenever the 
teacher or principal feels that it Is 
advisable. Although few studies of 
the effect of extra promotions have 
been iftade, they agree that it is a wise 
policy. Many children are saved a 
half year of time, many two or three
So AM I, Ar-4l) at 
LAST VJE’RE AGREED 
ON 5DMETHIMG - ' j—
Shake! r'
lw eMIOw Sh 
wDVY EPcH*A
I M CLÎ)
M4-6V 249 .S
I ¿(JRE AM
, HENRY /
The Smoother and Better Cigarette 
not a cough in a carload
© I*. Lorillard Co., Est. 1760

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE EIGHTTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, APRIL 17, 192S
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2000 
Published once every week during the E4AAE,E 1 
your by undergraduates of Carnegie Institute of Technology. Enterod In tbe Pltjtuburgh 
Post Oflloo an second-clans mutter.
EDITORIAL STAFFEdltor-in-Chief ...................Fenton Finn
Managing Editor........Milton Cohen
Newt) Editor..'............Margaret Russell
Athletic Editor.....................Fred WoodH
Women’s Editor.......................Jean RoyAlumni Editor...................Herbert Grau
EXCHANGE EDITORS Josephine Clark Florence McLaughlin 
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
Russell Wullinger William Rose
A. E. Fisher E. WeaverJohn Schnieder Meredith StumpHelen Reed Nathan Miller
Sara E. Wonders 
JUNIOR EDITORS S. C. Ralnjton Harold Jacohson
Dorothy Roy William McNeill
REPORTERS
Book ReviewAt the Exhibition
H. L. Blinker, Jr. 
E. Jarema T. Lippert 
W. W. Hay
C. ParkJ. J. Boylo 
H. N. Meixner 
J. Carpe 
H. Levinson 
W. J. Eason 
H. Booth M. Bchela 
N. Kline W. H. Worland 
W. H. Martsolf 
G. M. Wilson 
L. I. Shusset 
A. G. Allen
D. K. Tomer 
L. M. Baugh
Ina Hanaell E. Schleslnger
B. Kann
J. H. McAteer
C. Boyd
K. O’Donnell 
R. Bramson 
H. Whitehill 
R. uarr 
A. M. Fisher 
J. E. White 
M. B. Maze 
C. R. Nelson
C. F. Ackenheil 
A. F. Phillips 
W. L. Myers
J. B. Patterson 
E. J. Dattlsman
D. H. Barr G. H. M err in
SECRETARIAL ASSISTANTS . 
Mary Alice James Ludmilla Allen 
Margaret McConnaughey Helen Zeleznjak. 
BUSINESS STAFF Business Manager.. .Shelby McMlllion
Advertising Manager........J. H. Seibert
Assistants— R. Wehrle
T. R. Zenc D. IL Genter
W. M. Crosby
CIRCULATION STAFF 
Circulation Manager. .Harold Kandell 
Assistants—
G. Brahmst J. Roth
G. C. Ilarbison 
G. Thompson 
B. Wedner 
A. Tepllte 
M. Malinich R. W. Carter 
S. A. Bontonari
A. Frank 
A. Haynes
C. E. Blass 
S. Bluestone 
I. LevinS. Fcigonbaum 
J. P. Jones
D. Seville
Office—Room 12, Industries Building. Ofllca 
Hourn—Monday to ' Thursdays, 12:30-1:20 
Paper mud« up Friday, 12:80-6:00.
To Innuro publication on tho succeeding 
Tuesday, new« Items munti be In tho student 
pout office or Tortnn Office before 4 :J10 Thuru-
Aftlor Offico Hours call Schonley 1400, 
Schonloy 0H4W, Schunley 0211.All oditorials which are Initialed 
are contributed by persons other than 
tho editor, uninitMed editorials are 
those by the editor.
By ISADORA DUNCAN
Nearly two years ago, Isadora 
Duncan, while riding through Nice*In 
her car, managed to allow her scarf 
(I’m sure it must have been a flame 
colored one, at least) to become tan­
gled in tho wheels of the car, just 
how none ever knew, for she was 
dragged from a car and met death by 
strangulation.
Isadora Duncan was always good 
newspaper copy; the papers were 
filled with pictures and comments. 
She would have enjoyed her own 
death immensely; It had all tho ele­
ments of her life in it: strangeness, 
but a rather vulgar strangeness; 
color, but an applied, external color; 
movement, but as unnecessary amount 
of gesture; sentimentalism, but not 
half as much and not half the pre­
tense that tinctured her own life.
After reading this large and ver­
bose account of her life, supposedly 
and very conceivably written by her 
own hand, recently published in this 
country, or oven while reading it, a 
civilized person wants repeatedly to 
heave the book Into tho corner, to leap 
vivaciously into the air, and shout In 
resonant tones, “Fool! Fool! Fool!” 
Referring, of course, to the author j 
there is no viewing this book passive­
ly, there is no praising it, there ought 
to be no praising the woman, although 
there ought to be an appraising her. 
Had someone who knew her well 
chosen to Immortalize her as a weak, 
absurd woman, her life and the book 
of it would have been interesting and 
dramatic as the presentation of a 
woman woefully untalented and de­
plorably without character. But in’ 
her own account there are only 
wishy-washy ideals and a bad sense 
of the dramatic and no real quality of 
self-appraisal. She is one of the great 
many individuals- who should never 
had the impulse to reveal herself in 
print. The few who are justified pos­
sess no ideals a mind or at least 
enough of one to permit an honest 
viewing of externals and tho ability 
to distinguish clearly between fact 
and conjecture. Possibly a wit, with 
wit alone as his qualification, could 
write amusingly of himself and his 
surroundings. But Miss Duncan had 
ideals, and they'Vwqre Victorian, rose- 
colored ones;' she had no mind for
SERIOUSLY SPEAKING
PLAY REVIEW
THE MADRAS HOUSEtragic dilemma will be seen in every
woman we know. I, for example,
... R mi *\ r ) though perhaps not a woman, know For his production of The Madras I . ,, t « , Tinnumerable Jessicas, several LaurasHouse Mr. Payne has assembled a 
large cast, of which no member stands 
out as especially brilliant, but of 
which all are reasonably competent 
and sufficiently suited to their parts. 
This lack of distinction is chiefly due,
| This is the season of renewed hope.
| The old pagans rejoiced when the 
gentle zephyrs of spring began to stir 
the fragrant new-green vegetation. 
And today, on every .campus there 
arise also paeans of joy and a renewed 
faith in the value and beneficience of 
co-education.
It is not our intention to wax 
lyrical on this subject especially as 
it happens to be snowing at the pres­
ent moment, but rather to point out 
some significant trends in the public 
life of the moment which seems to 
presage new hope and confidence in 
the wisdom and justice of democracy.
After the carnage and the night­
mare of violence and disruption of the 
war, pessimism generally took hold 
of the hearts of those to ’ whom the 
ideas of progress and political probity 
held out some truth. Yet in the post­
war period, the political skies dark­
ened and there rode in on the crest 
of the reaction, dictators, strong men 
and corrupt politicians who wrested 
away the control of the European 
states. In a few years, rule of the 
people and all the ambitious strides 
in that direction had became a mock­
ery. In this country as well there 
succeeded the rule of a corrupt ad­
ministration, the brazenness of which 
has perhaps never been equalled in 
the history of our government. On 
every hand, therefore, it appeared that 
popular rule became a mockery and its 
exponents derided and confounded as
and Minnies, one or two Mrs. Brig- 
stocks, a Miss Yates, and all too 
many Miss Chancellors. And I agree 
with those individual's who remarked, 
while looking for their wraps, and 
getting into their cabs, that there is 
‘a great deal to think about in this
perhaps, t<o the fact that Granville-: play." Certainly if they had not yet
Barker's play, or tract, was made less 
to give the actors a chance to shine 
than to allow tbe author to present 
his views on the particular question 
that happened to be troubling him at 
the time of writing. It is Woman— 
Woman and her Problems. Each ma­
jor part in the play is like one note 
in a complicated theme; none is al­
lowed to dominate too much, and al-
started to think about such matters, 
it is time they began.
As for the men in the piece, they 
had their problems too, but for the 
most part they were created out of 
their failure to cope with the problems 
of their wives, or daughters, or mis­
tresses, or mothers. As usual, they 
talked a great deal about them, but 
did not get very far. Before the play 
was over, this plethora of talk made 
it resemble very closely one of the
most every one is heard only during I lesser, and more indignant novels of 
a small part of the composition, to | Mr- H- G- Wells—and it was about assuccessful, as far as art is concerned.
The men, like the women, are types 
from the frigid husband to the tem-
for that reason, hardly , peramentally unfaithful captive—from
become merged finally in the whole, 
discriminat ion and restraint, she had j Each character represents an idea, an 
no sense of. fact, and above all she abstraction
had practically no sense of humor, i * .TltfJ greatest amount of humor, power | any character (emerges as definitely , the ridiculous ass who is perpetually
of character understanding, and even 1 r°al and lifelike; almost all’seem flat, I braying about progress to the dull
wit (and even hero they appear in igrey, and simple, like shadows. ¡victim of conjugal fidelity; and all
mealier ouantitioHi ar<> nnrln .»f hor *«- > . are interesting as such, and valuableraeagei quantities} uie pans oi nei | We have, for example, the various
REVISIONOF PLEBE 
TIONS
qualities and weaknesses and to j 
laugh at them, tho while she was in : 
no position to realize that they were i 
parts of herself. I have no faith I 
that the picture we have of Raymond 1 
iff in any sense complete; I do feel, j 
however, that thoro is in that picture | .
attltudo toward her- brother, Ray- , „ ,, , T , ,. , ,,, wives oi the piece—Jessica, pamperedmond. He must be extremely like
herself; perhaps some intuition, some am* unsatisfied - Mrs. ijuxtable, 
manner of womanly understanding,! shrunken and sour, like essence of 
permitted hor to see in him her own ! lemon-—Mrs. Madras, a mere wraith,
all of whose womanly qualities have 
become warped and shrunken, be­
cause of passion unsatisfied and di­
rected inward—Mrs. Brigstoek, a 
typical lower-class wife, with all the
„ , , , bitterness and unloveliness of herless confusion caused by seeingtilings glowingly- uifil much Imi b.eitu- distilled aim snarpelfed into
tifully in her conception of him. , vinegar -an unprepossessing set, sure- 
Not that she doesn't try to see hor- j •>’. but easily recognizable, because of 
self, not that she doesn’t try to attain | tlioir simplicity and lack of any com- 
frankness: she - does, and she tries ' locating characteristics that- would 
valiantly and a little melodramatically. I »»ake them less typical, but. more hu- 
Iier major conception of truth 1U a man. Each is an abstraction, a for- 
sort of composite of accepting; plati-1 nuila '• 0,10,1 ifi an unsolved problem, 
tildes and pretty phrases from I The six spinsters, also, are types, 
Neitsche, of thinking that her destiny i with one all too simple problem among 
1 was to be the mistress of great men. them. In a few years they will be-
I gets the impression, for instance,! (;ome like their mother, or their dear
that when she wasn’t dancing at every j unhappy aunt, or, more probably, like 
conceivably inappropriate time, and i «-liat prurient and prudish ghost, Miss 
place she was searching for important Chancellor. The conventions which 
men to love. And love for her was a j will make them so are working 
confusion of cheap hotel bedrooms! smoothly all around them. Their 
and genius and pretty ficitious names 15»a! doom being inevitable, the au- 
for her lovers. thor does not need to show the work-
It is rather too bad that the book! ing of it. He needs only to give us
did not reach the press in time to type: our acquaintance with it is
and smitten the ludicrous Big Bill 
the Builder and his crooked hench­
men hip and thigh. The victory of an 
abused and incited populace was con­
vincing, to say the least. Score one 
for democracy.
There is another development on the 
political horizon that gives an addi­
tional cause to rejoice. The allusion 
is to the gradual uncovering of the 
slimy trail of oil that has besmirched 
the national government in recent ad­
ministrations. It is too early to pre­
dict a thorough remedy of this situa­
tion but we may hppefully expect 
some balm soon. It has taken over 
six years to follow the trail in all its 
nefarious details but it is unravelling. 
And when it shall have been exposed,, 
the voice of. the people in spite of all 
its unreality and sentiment, will be­
come apparent again as a slow work­
ing but inevitable force. It looks like 
score two for popular rule.
Most remarkable of all, and this 
must be mentioned in bated breath, 
because it is too early to boast—it 
may occur in the coming presidential 
election that candidates will be se-‘ 
lected in spite of the plans and the 
machinations of the inner control of 
the parties. From the present cast 
upon the situation, in the primaries, 
preferences are being shown for can­
didates who are rather unpalatable to 
the bosses and the campaign-expense- 
stuffers. The experience of recent 
elections argues against the working 
out of the popular preferences, of
well-meaning but hopelessly futile be-1 course, and the selection of candidates 
lievers in a sentimental ideal. j more amenable to the machine, but
Certain events of recent date will I at the present time, it appears that 
now be mentioned in rebuttal to the | the tide may be too strong. And, 
claims and derisions of our eiibryo 1 mirable dictu, one of the popular can- 
Mussolinis and Sinclairs and Big Bill j didates belongs to a creed usually as- 
Thompsons. It must however, be ad-1 sociated with religious prejudices em- 
mitted in advance that the mills of i ployed by petty politicians to retain 
democracy grind very slowly indeed, | control of the paying offices in the
and that consequently we must exer­
cise patience in order that the will of 
the masses may work itself out cease­
lessly. We must not become over­
fascinated by the fashion of the mo­
ment—we must not be lulled into 
quiescence by the facinating frowns 
of a Mussolini, or by the belligerent 
challenges against foreign monarchs 
of a Bill Thompson, or the long-green 
of a I-Iarry Sinclair. Tliese are but 
fancies of the passing moment and we 
must confess that they are attractive 
at the time, but yet underneath it all 
the popular leaven is working and i.? 
undeceived.
Take for example, the recent hap­
penings in the state of. Abraham Lin­
coln. In and about the great city of 
Chicago, there had developed an alli­
ance between the forces of the gov-
for an author who wishes to write, ernmfent fn(} K# W ^ b8?°me 
not drama, but profusely illustrated a !^.tl0nal , \he b™nd ofsermons i politics pursued had been flagrant
buffoonery and ridiculous play-acting
llxlich has been said about Plobo 
regulations during the past year -In 
fact trouble has boon brewing for tho 
last three or frtur yearn. Obviously 
something is wrong with the presont 
system. It Is evidently not conform­
able to conditions as they have come 
to bo at Cnrneglo.
Regulation» have boon but hap­
hazardly enforced during tho year 
despite criticism and efforts to im­
prove the situation. Perhaps tho 
Sophomore» are not entirely to blame, 
no doubt they fool nn Inward re­
pugnance toward the whole matter 
and the result has been that regula­
tions as they now oxist are In 111 re- 
(pube. Tho SophomoroB themselves 
do not Boom to realize why they have 
taken this attitude, they have failed 
to get down to any concrete reasons 
for not enforcing regulations, the 
contributions which appeared some 
weoks ago plainly show this. They 
have rather tried,, to excuse them­
selves on the basis of such flimsy 
reasons- as too many exemption cards 
and in some (jases have given vague 
insinuations that the entire blame 
should be attachd to the upper 
classes.
If one gets down to rock bottom 
in the matter, liowevpr, the trouble 
seems to be that the present system 
is in need of revision, and after all 
why not? There has been little or 
no change in the last eight or nine 
years and it would be folly to think 
that conditions had not changed. The 
student body of today is certainly 
vastly different from that of eight 
years ago. The ideas are different, 
even behavior* has changed. If the 
enforcement of regulations has be­
come a repugnant task to Soplio- 
mires it is not surprsing, nor is it to 
be too rashly criticised by the upper 
classes, perhaps the thing seems in­
significant or petty as it now exists, 
certainly It bocomos monotonous
wlion oxtonded over an entire year. .; . , , | ou< ()f g^yiQ Qne iul’s only to con- j that august anniversary is upon us,
After some thought and consider-1 done away with, and in their- 'Stead-I template one’s family, or better, per-1 much remains to be done , if it is to 
able unprejudiced observation of the should come a more vigorous attitude haps, for the sake of equanimity, j be celebrated as it should be. 
situation a revision of regulations on the part of the Student Council ' one’s friends. The same idiotic and | * K. S. N.
that would include the, following | and Administration
which even the people of poor, back­
ward Nicaragua would have shied at. 
It was embarrassing to the good peo­
ple of the land'that such goings-on 
could be countenanced, and it seemed 
an almost hopeless task to rid the 
state of this viper. Yet, in the recent 
primary elections, the people, long 
abused and disregarded nave arisen
Mr. Wilson and Mr. Greenberg were 
the most successful illustrations, and 
perhaps the most convincing. Never 
has the former made himself more 
agreeable on the stage (except always 
as his beautiful Verges of a year ago), 
while Mr. Greenberg has never been 
given a part in a Little Theater pro­
duction so happily suited to him.
Both actors seem to have profited from 
their, errors of the past: both have 
definitely learned the value of re­
straint. Mr. Wilson no longer relies 
upon eyebrows and elbows and exag­
gerated reading of lines for effect; he 
has forgotten I-Iardie Albright, and
has become acquainted with himself, j -----—1
Mr. Greenberg is careful to avoid , Thistledown appears today in still 
i°° ,aU_iC“L°r t0°. “I another guise. This week he is a 
kindliearted;soul-in-a-midst, and he is
state and the county. If the bosses 
are routed and forced to cringe the 
knee, has not the voice of the “peepul” 
spoken, in spite of the cynical remarks 
ot some and the snickers of others? 
If so, may we not begin to spell de­
mocracy with a capital letter as we 
mark down a third score for it?
Space forbids the mention of other 
signs and portents of hope, such as 
file slowly-working movement toward 
the alienation and banning of war be­
tween nations, the optimistic attempts 
to examine the industrial conflicts in 
an intelligent manner, although here 
it must be admitted that the road is 
still long and thorny.
Even if it does snow, one may per­
ceive a crocus or a dandelion peep­
ing up here and there. At least, which 
is just as important, we act as though 
spring were here, to judge from the 
foreshortened nature and primrose, 
hue of. the garments worn, fn the 
same way. hope does revive that in 
the political arena, the * democratic 
hope is germinating anew and thrust­
ing off the wet blanket of dictators, 
crooks and cynics. At least, things 
are acting that way, and we should 
like to advise many of the above men­
tioned rascally crew to prepare them­
selves for the journey to St. Helena.
NATHAN MILLER.
Cardo Chardon Disenwolle
pour dollars into her declining years. ! sufficient for us to know what will
for when he does either of these 
things he inevitably ruins his part. 
Indeed',-in the opinion of this review­
er, Mr. Greenberg seems in retrospect 
the most attractive member of the 
cast—though partly, it must' be owned, 
because of hjs exceptionally hand­
some appearance as Constantine 
Madras. If he could overcome the 
peculiar distortion he sometimes gives 
to words, especially those containing 
dipthongs; if he would be careful to. 
allow no tone to escape which is not 
properly placed, he would undoubt­
edly become more attractive still. He 
has one endowment- excessively rare 
in actors—intelligence. He is appar­
ently setting about applying it to his 
acting. At present his greatest weak-
They w'ould have meant a kind of raa-1 become of them. Miss Yates, wlio 
terial comfort which she was not in- ! represents what would happen if they 
terested in, but about which she de- j rebelled, is also a formula, and a prob- 
voted nearly half the pages of her ; !em quite as poignant as theirs, 
book! She was reasonably sure, just There was no need for a closely 
as Nan Britton was sure, that the ; knit* plot, or for any. degree of dra-
public is pleased with the thought of matic unity in the theme. Even ; ness is still' his voice; but it is my 
great men and women having vulgar ! though each successive problem is i belidf that it may. be made his great- 
affairs of the heart. That manner of j only developed a little way, it serves J est strength. His hardest test will 
combination contributed to or, per-!to make the picture more complete, come in Lear; and of course Mr. Wil- 
haps, makes the success of the new ' and, if you will, to darken it. j son will meet in that utterly uncon-
biographical method popular witli> Tlie audience, for the most part, querable play obstacles that have 
writers. Living in Ancient Greece'in was interested to hear Mr. Granville-1 daunted almost all actors who have
thought, she triumphed in banal and 
ugly liasons. If you can stand the 
really frightful literary, style, or, 1
Barker's* strictures upon the status essayed the part. It is perhaps un
fortunate that the play should have 
been chosen, but it is beginning to
of woman in society, even when they 
were» clothed in the disguise of Mo-, 
might have said’, tlie entire absence • hammodan teachings; some, of course, ; look as though the producer will not 
of any sense of literary effect, if you | spoke of tlie whole topic as trite, make of it an utter failure, if Mr. 
can be careless' toward the iuoon- platitudinous, and even outmo'ded. j Willson remembers his weaknesses, 
sistency of attitude and can view as Ihit the essential thesis is no more ' has good luck, and, in addition, a con- 
an interesting human • spectacle1 an-! Platitudinous than truth is, nor will siderable quantity of courage, 
other person striving much too hard IH °ver, unfortunately, be completely j April 23 will soon be here. Before
out of style,
Ifmaximumchange's sooms imperative and should penalty of a year’s probation or the to make good use of her neuroses,
bo discussed thoroughly by members | 
of tho Student Council who are re­
sponsible for conditions next year.
Tho first proposal would be that 
regulations be limited to a period of 
time extending from the day after
BETA PI SORORITY HOLDS
ANNUAL INITIATION; FORMALlike could bo brought about it would j striving much too hard to justify her 
I be much ( more offeotivo punishment Perverse little art, striving too hard
! than the pfsgmt rather petty hair- to be something mucli more important'
cuttings.
Some will argue that regulation ! may be uniusod by tho whole proceed- 
should be done away with entirely, j lug. Frankly, I wasn’t. There are | Pitt, Hotel. The regular formal initia-
Fresliman Week until the Christmas but such a step would be rather fool-1 many too' many other books immortal-i tion of the pledges took place in the
holidays, during this time regulations j ish. Regulations of any sort have a 1 izin'g glamorous mortals (and immor- j afternoon, and was followed by a din-
Last Saturday evening, April 14, the 
I than dostiny intonded her to be, you ¡Beta Pi Sorority held Its annual for-
I malthe Norse Room of the Fort
should be strictly enforced iby the 
Sophomores. A second change would 
be that Plebe trials be held once 
every two weeks in each college and 
that they be made much more sys­
tematic and forceful than they„,are at 
present. Lastly haircuts should be
tendency to introduceFreshman ¡ tais)
going to try to explain things to a 
Distressed Engineer. The engineer 
j Avants to know why an average high 
school kid with average laeas1 about 
democracy, deity and femininity, 
average capacities for spending 
money and making a nuisance of him­
self, average tendencies toward vir­
tue, vice, and laziness should, on sud­
denly feeling the great artistic urge, 
develop an idiotic, eccentric disposi­
tion. Now the answer to that is 
rather complicated, and Thistledown, 
who has a simple mind, does not ex­
pect to be able to give it satisfac­
torily. Thistledown intends to do no 
more than throw out a few clues 
about it. Thistledown wonders 
first of all if the Tartan’s (i&rres- 
pondent has ever experienced the 
artistic urge himself. Thistledown 
assures him that it is nothing like 
the impetuous desire some engineers 
have to do extra math examples, or 
to write especially conscientious 
chemistry reports, or to turn down a 
dance date to study for a doming 
hour exam. Thistledown finds it un­
satisfactory to describe it as like the" 
shock one gets short circuiting the 
radio batteries or when one discovers 
twenty more dollars in the bank than 
the book shows, or when one is 
pushed under , a cold shower by 
some fun loving fraternity brothers, 
or when a plebe upsets a bowl of hot 
soup into one’s lap. No, the artistic 
urge is like none of these things. It 
is something mysterious and strange. 
It works Its way. no one knows how. 
It blows hither and thither as it lists. 
It illuminates those it lights with 
peculiar radiances. It. imparts savor 
to those who are flat, and sweet 
flavors to those' who are sour. It 
lends the dull and drag the perfumes 
of exotic scents. It blows up the flat
gineer, that makes the average spin­
ach green plebe become affected 
when he feels the mysterious urge 
of the artistic life. The answer this 
time is simpler. The artistic urge, 
in one of its aspects, is nothing less 
than a tremendous desire to create 
and express. This desire once it is 
felt, must be given way to, for its 
inhibition would be productive of the 
most awful consequences. What, 
however, shall the immature and too 
often trivially talented Arts students 
produce? It is a tremendous problem 
that he faces. To bring forth nothing 
might mean a cankering and soul 
gnawing complex leading to ultimate 
destruction; to make something, how­
ever insignificant means for the time 
being release from the kicking of the 
urge. Of course the solution is to 
get out the easiest way: to create an 
impression, and to express himself. 
That, Thistledown assures the corres­
pondent, is the true explanation of 
eccentric Arts people. That is why 
they affect curious conversational 
mannerisms, strange neck wear, 
peculiar haircuts, supercilious con­
descension, unfamiliar dress and 
temperamental blow-ups. That is 
why the men have an air. That is 
why the girls sprawl over the cold 
marble benches of the corridors 
smoking a package a day, swearing 
horrible oaths through the smoke 
rings, and shaking out their hair just 
enough to make men in the other 
school think them very decollete and 
dangerously bohemian.
If Thistledown Knew who the dis­
tressed engineer was he would invite 
him to dinner at his house tomorrow 
night. Thistledown could provide 
him with a vociferous audience of 
fraternity brothers to listen to a 
harangue on the hypocrisy and hum­
bug of Carnegie spirit. And after the 
harangue, Thistledown would walk 
back to the quadrangle with him, and 
in the magnificant front portal of the 
Science building pledge him to a 
loyal and true comradship against
human beings rather than j ner dance from _ seven to twelve tir'e: it makes the wall flower bloom. !lle ¦ silly temperamental center of all 
into college life a tendency that would ; monstrosities. I’rn still interested in ¡o’clock. js something impossible to de- discord across the lawn.
scribe, for it is impossible |jto com­be hard to supplement and they offer I Isadora Duncan; I shall await -the Interesting favors—ask the
an incentive for organization on the 
part of the newcomers and by such 
organization fellowship is bound to 
result.
hand of someone better fitted than j were presented, and music was furn- 
lierself to keep her in the mind of a ished bjr the McDews Orchestra, a 
fickle, forgetful public. ; collection of amiable and clever ar-
E/W. W. tists.
prehend.
Thistledown is getting away from 
his muttons. To the point. What 
is it then, asks this distressed en-
Question: Dear Thistledown, are
you going to. appear in the Squeak? 
Answer: Certainly. What better
way is there to produce a squeak than 
by sticking in a thistle?
