English Lecture Series Opens 
With Talk By Dean Swank
Dean Earle R. Swank, Lecturer in English and Dean of 
Men, will deliver a talk in the current English Lecture Series 
on Tuesday, March 5, in the Assembly hour in Fine Arts 
Theatre. This year’s series is devoted to the theme “Literary 
Pioneers,” and the subject of Dean Swank’s lecture is David 
Michael Jones.
David Jones, both painter and writer, published in 1937
a novel dealing with his experi-O--------------------------------------------------------
ence in World War I as a member
of the Welsh Fusileers. Entitled 
^ In Parenthesis, the novel was an 
immediate critical success in Eng­
land but was not published in the 
United States until 1961.
According to T. S. Eliot, In 
Parenthesis is significant for its 
use of language “in a new way 
and for a new purpose.” It has 
been acclaimed by Stephen 
Spender as “perhaps the monu­
mental elegy of World War I.” 
author’s attempt to link his own 
# author’s atempt to link his own 
experience with the historical
events his country had experi­
enced. Hence the novel takes its 
place among the studies of men 
seeking to establish an identity 
for themselves while experienc­
ing a hiatus in the noraml course 
of their lives.
In Parenthesis commands spe­
cial attention for two reasons: 
the response it evoked from 
writers of the twentieth century, 
and the experiments the author 
undertook while attempting to 
make the English language serve 
his creative purpose.
Beth Parkinson Is Best Dressed; 
Represents Tech For ‘Glamour’
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 55 — NUMBER 17 WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1963
The finalists for Best-Dressed-Girl contest stand ready for the last vote. The girl* 
are, left to right, starting with the front row: <hjdy Girard, Linda Book, Carole Denni* 
son, Margie Packard, Joanne Rose, Janet Harton, Beth Parkinson, Marty Moore, Donna 
Flynt, Betsy Jo Beckley, Nancy Beth Jacobs, Marylee Brady, Joan Boschan, Patty Ask* 
with, and Marney Gilboy.
CFP Initiates Relaxed Parties 
During Second Semester Rush
Fraternity men entertain rushees at dinners during 
second semester rush.
At the beginning of this semester the Council of Frater­
nity Presidents initiated a Second'Semester Fraternity Rush. 
This rush, unlike Fall Rush, was typified by an air of relaxa­
tion. Neither the fraternities nor the rushees were in a big 
hurry to get or become pledges.
In many ways both parties enjoyed this type of rush 
much more than they did that of the first semester. The
fraternities were not hard pressed 
to get a certain “quota” of 
pledges, and, thus had some time 
to thoroughly look over the rush­
ees. Likewise, the rushees, having 
spent a semester in school, were 
more capable of choosing the 
* houses in which they were most 
interested.
Second semester rush was prof­
itable in that twenty-three men 
pledged eight houses, and many 
others became interested in fra­
ternities in general.
The pledges and their fraterni­
ties are:
ATO—Paul Magouson, Paul He- 
becher
m BTP—David Vance, Ed Dawson, 
Joe Van Ryson, Robert Bu­
chanan
KS—Orrin Mahoney, Scotty 
Skembris, Don Coudriet 
PKA—Grady Clay, James Mc- 
Chesney, Denins Taylor 
SAE—Douk Love, Bill Provance, 
Tom Hoswell 
Sigma Nu—Bruce Bell, Gary 
Bruce, Geary Andrews, Ron 
£ McGarvey
TDP—Jim Alt
TX—Leo Lamay, Peter Ohl, Bob 
Christiansen
Company A-5 
Plans Annual 
Pershing Ball
On Saturday, March 2, 1963, 
Pershing Rifles Company A-5 is 
sponsoring its annual Ball. It will 
be held in Skibo Ballroom be­
tween 8:30 p.m. and 1:00 a.m. 
Music will be provided by Don 
Felix and his orchestra. Refresh­
ments will be provided.
The highlight of the Ball will 
be the crowning of the new Com­
pany Queen by last year’s Queen, 
Miss Arlene Winner. Miss Winner 
was also Honorary Colonel of the 
Fifth Regiment, Pershing Rifles.
Tickets are available from any 
member of Company A-5 at $2.00 
per couple.
ment Bureau; Dean Brown; Marty 
Ackerman; Mark Appelbaum; and 
John Bertucci.
The judgest appraised the girls 
on the basis of the individuality 
and variety of their outfits, the 
appropriateness of their clotning 
to the situation, and their make­
up, grooming, and posture.
Beth, should she be selected as 
one of Glamour’s “Top Ten” col» 
lege girls, will be featured in 
their August issue and will go 
with the other nine national win­
ners on an all-expense-paid visit 
to New York from June 2 to June 
14, 1963. The winners will stay 
at the Biltmore Hotel; they will 
be presented at a fashion show to 
over 1,000 members of the fash­
ion industry, spending at least two 
days visiting cultural centers in 
New York, and will be enter­
tained by Glamour’s Editor-in- 
Chief, Kathleen Aston Casey, at 
her home. They will also be en­
tertained at theaters, luncheons, 
dinners, receptions, etc., through­
out the visit.
Panhellenic Council was very 
pleased with the large turnout of 
viewers at the elimination, and 
very appreciative of the kind and 
patient co-operation of the judges 
and contestants—both of whom 
had difficult and harassing jobs 
to perform.
If there are any comments, 
questions, or suggestions in re­
gard to succeeding contests of 
this kind, they can be sent to 
Elaine Hinkel, President of Pan- 
Hellenic Council, to Lynn Pester- 
nak, Social Chairman, or to the 
Tartan office.
Student Congress
There will be a regular 
meeting of Student Congress 
on Wednesday, February 27, 
1963 at 4:30 p.m. in the Wher- 
rett Lounge of Skibo. All in­
terested students are urged to 
attend.
The Panhellenic “Best-Dressed Girl” contest came to a 
close this Friday night at the final elimination in the More- 
wood Gardens Rec Room, when the judges elected Beth Park­
inson, a senior English major and member of Kappa Kappa 
Gamma sorority, the “best-dressed girl” on Tech’s campus.
Beth’s winning outfits were: a classroom outfit consisting 
of a navy Shetland sweater and skirt, a blue shirt, a Madras 
plaid cummerbund, and navy knee socks; a street dress of 
lightweight tangerine wool, a black snakeskin bag with 
matching heels and black leather gloves; and on evening 
ensemble made up of a black silk crepe sheath with a draped
skirt and two small bows at theO----------------------------------------------------------
waistline, a gold leaf pin with 
diamond chips, black silk shoes 
and bag, and white gloves.
The other finalists who com­
peted were Patti Askwith, Betsy 
Jo Beclkey, Linda Book, Marylee 
Brady, Joan Boschan, Janet Cain,
Carole Dennison, Donna Flynt,
Marney Gilboy, Judy Girard,
Janet Harton, Nancy Beth Jac­
obs, Marty Moore, Margie Pack­
ard, and Jo Ann Rose. Each girl 
modelled three outfits—a campus, 
an off-campus dawtime, and an 
evening outfit.
Judging the competition were: 
Mrs. Milligan; Mrs. Green; Miss 
Meyers, Professor of Home Econ­
omics—MMCC textile depart­
ment; Mrs. Moore, Tech Place-
Christian Science Speaker 
Delivers Lecture March 4
A public lecture on the nature 
and power of divine Love will be 
given here Monday, March 4 at 
4:45 p.m., by James Watt, a mem­
ber of the Christian Science Board 
of Lectureship.
Mr. Watt will speak Wherret 
Lounge in Skibo at the invitation 
of Carnegie Tech’s Christian Sci­
ence Organization. Admission is 
free.
Mr. Watt served as a United 
States Army Chaplain during 
World War II, and since 1Ö42, has 
devoted his full time to the prac­
tice of Christian Science healing 
and has served in various church 
capacities. He resides in Washing­
ton, D. C., but is currently on an 
extensive Christian Science lec­
ture tour. A graduate of Illinois 
Institute of Technology, he was 
formerly associated with various 
engineering companies both in the 
United States and abroad.
The Christian Science Organi­
zation at Carnegie Tech is com­
posed of Christian Science Church
James Watt
members and those interested in 
the religion. The organization 
meets every Tuesday afteroon at 
4:30 in the chapel in Skibo. All 
students and faculty members are 
warmly invited to the lecture and 
to the meetings of the organiza­
tion.

---------------------------------------------------

You tan put the kibosh on all your checking account service harges - for good!
THE UNION NATIONAL BANK OF PITTSBURGH
MAIN OFFICE: FOURTH AVENUE AT WOOD STREET. 
AND: 4612 FORBES AVENUE, OAKLAND
MEMBER: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL OEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION
At Union National Bank, you can have a free personal checking account. 
Just keep a $200 balance. There's no service charge. No maintenance 
charge. No charge lor new checks. No charge for deposits. Pay your 
bills the easy way. Stop in at your nearest Union National Bank office 
and open your free personal checking account. Come in today.
Page 2 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, February 27, 1963
BULLETIN BOARD
Lester Trimble, Tech Alumnus, 
Appears In Composers Forum
Informal Discussion
The informal discussion group 
will meet this Thursday, Febru­
ary 28, at 11:30 a.m. in the Blue 
Room of Morewood Gardens for 
lunch and discussion, with Dr. 
Karn of the Psychology Depart­
ment who will speak on “Aspects 
of Prison Psychology.” All men 
are invited to attend.
Radio Club
The Carnegie Tech Radio Club 
bas elected its officers for the 1963 
spring semester.
Jerome Lee Cross, a sophomore 
in the electrical engineering de­
partment has been elected as 
president. Secretary - treasurer is 
David R. Miller, also a sophomore 
in electrical engineering and chief 
operator is Leroy C. Richardson, i 
a junior in electrical engineering.
Patterns Needs 
Sales Manager
PATTERNS needs an energetic 
Sales Manager. The Sales Man­
ager will have full responsibility 
for planning an enthusiastic sales 
campaign using his original ideas 
to carry it out successfully. He 
will work closely with Publicity 
and Business Managers. Experi­
ence would be helpful, but is not 
required — the important quali­
fications are creative, far-sighted 
planning ability, and a sense of 
responsibility.
Interested people writes PAT­
TERNS, Business Manager, Box 
402 Campus Mail; give your phone 
number and you will be contact­
ed. If you choose, you may ex­
plain your qualifications or ex­
press the degree of interest which 
you feel will make you a good j 
PATTERNS Sales Manager.
Buggy Entries
Any Carnegie Tech organization 
interested in entering a buggy in 
Sweepstakes Competition, contact 
Blaine Cliver at the Sigma Nu 
house, MA. 1-1528.
Home Economics Club
The meeting of the CIT Chap­
ter of the AHEA that was post­
poned last Wednesday will be 
held at 3:30 today in Mary Breed 
Hall. The topic will be Market, 
Research, and Labeling.
Skibo Chapel
On Friday, March 1, in the 
Skibo Chapel at 8 p.m. there will 
be a combined meeting of the 
Student Institute of the Oratory 
and Students of Methodist, Pres­
byterian, and Church of Christ. 
Refreshments later at 5220 Forbes 
Avenue.
Opera "Faust'' Tickets
Opera tickets for “Faust” are 
available in Dean Rice’s office, 
College of Fine Arts. The opera 
will be performed at Syria 
Mosque on February 28 and 
March 2.
CLANCY BROTHERS 
AND TOMMY MAKEN 
AT MEMORIAL HALL
Lester Trimble, an alumnus of: 
Carnegie Tech, and one of the 
most promising young composers 
in America, will appear in a var­
ied program of his music in the 
third of this year’s Composer’s 
Forums, Saturday,. March 2, at 
3:00 p.m. in the Carnegie Music 
Hall.
The program for the upcoming 
forus includes Mr. Trimble’s 
“Four Fragments from Canter- 1 
bury Tales,” “Five Episodes for! 
Piano,” and his First and Second 
String Quartets. Featured per­
formers for the program include 
Ruth McCoy Gatto, . soprano; 
Ethan Stang, flute; Louis Paul, 
clarinet; and Nelson Whitaker, 
piano, in the “Four Fragments 
from Canterbury Tales.” The Car­
negie Fine Arts Quartet will per­
form the string quartets, and New 
York pianist Mildred Waldman 
the “Five Episodes for Piano.”
Well-known to Pittsbui'gh audi­
ences, Mr. Trimble’s works have 
been performed by the Pittsburgh 
Symphony Orchestra under Wil­
liam Steinberg. He has won na­
tional acclaim for several of his 
compositions and was the recipi­
ent of a special award from the 
National Institute of Arts and 
Letters. Presently, he is general 
manager of the American Music 
Center, Incorporated, in New 
York.
The Composers’ Forums differ 
from ordinary contemporary re­
citals because of the participating 
presence of the composer whose
music is being performed, and the 
informal communication and ex­
change of views between the com­
poser and the audience. Com- $1 
posers previously honored in this 
year’s series were Alexei Haieff 
and Ross Lee Finney. The final 
program to be held late in March 
will feature the music of Virgil 
Thomson.
The forums, sponsored by Tech’s 
department of music, are free and 
the public is invited to attend.
Engineering Trainees $6,000
Night school students with over two years 
and grade average over 2.5.
MECHANICAL OR ELECTRICAL
Supplemental educational benefits 
with large Pittsburgh corporation.
Cull... CAREER PERSONNEL
GR 1-8926
4150 Jenkins Arcade Pittsburgh, 22
Lost And Found 
Overflows With 
Assorted Goodies
Why walk around campus with j 
frozen hands because you’ve lost! 
your gloves? Come on over to the 
Lost and Found Department at 
Skibo Information Desk and see if 
yours are there. Chances are good 
that they will be there, along with 
slide rules, pens, scarves and 
books. You had better do it fast, 
though, because the gloves are 
piling up at such a quick rate 
that they’re going to be thrown 
out in two weeks to make room 
for more. Do yourself and the Lost 1 
and Found Department a favor by 
claiming whatever is yours.
The Clancy Brothers and Tom­
my Maken, the celebrated Irish 
folk singers, will make their first 
Pittsburgh appearance on Friday, 
March J, when they appear in 
concert at Soldiers and Sailors 
Memorial Hall at 8:30. Student 
tickets are now on sale at the 
Skibo desk at a ten percent dis­
count .... At the desk, $3.50 
tickets are sold for S3.15 and 
$3.50 tickets go for $2.25.
TONY'S BARRER SHOP
SPECIALIZING IN ALL KINDS OF HAIRCUTS
ME BR:F:MD ALSAVF YRVYAVT
125 Bosquet St. (Near Corner Forbes and Bouquet)
New Hours: 8 A.M. to 8 P.M. Daily MU. 2-9969
a a n a a aaaaaaaaa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a>44
The Brute
Mennen Spray Deodorant is rugged. Hard working. Long lasting. 
Delivers 3 times the anti-perspirant power of any other leading 
men’s deodorant. That's right. 3 times the anti-perspirant power. 
Mennen Spray...in the handy squeeze bottle. What a brute!

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, February 27, 1963 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Pag* «
Shriner Receives Award in Fisher ’s 
Model Car Design Competition
C-Book Supplement
Alpha Phi Omega is planning to 
print a supplement to the 1962 
C-Book for the benefit of those 
people who have moved since
October. If you have moved, <rt 
if you would like to correct a pre­
vious error, please fill out the 
form below, and send it to Alpha 
Phi Omega, Box 282, Campus Mail.
Donald R. Shriner, sophomore 
in the mechanical engineering de- 
I partment, has been awarded a 
trophy for honors won in the 1962 
Fisher Body Craftsman’s Guild 
model car competition.
Dr. J. C. Warner presented the 
award to Rick at a ceremony on 
February 12.
Rick won the senior division 
first place state award for Penn­
sylvania and received $150. He 
V also won the top regional honors 
for Pennsylvania, and received an 
expense free trip to the Crafts­
man’s Guild four-day national 
convention held in Detroit.
The Fisher Body program is de­
signed to encourage creative de­
signing and craftsmanship.
Awards for the best models en­
tered in the Guild competition in­
clude eight university scholar- 
^ ships for the national winners of 
the junior and senior divisions of 
the competition. Also, 10 scholar­
ships are awarded for exceptional 
designing .ability. There are 16 
cash awards in each state and the 
District of Columbia.
IM Society 
* Holds Meeting
The Industrial Management So­
ciety will hold a social meeting 
this evening at 8:00 in the Sigma 
Nu fraternity house. All G.S.I.A. 
faculty members and I.M. stu­
dents are cordially invited to at­
tend. Through this meeting, and 
others like it, the Society hopes 
to form a closer relationship be­
tween students and faculty. Reg- 
ular monthly meetings are held 
with the general purpose of ac­
quainting the I.M. student with 
the real-world industrial environ­
ment.
Another major function of the 
organization is to publicize the 
Carnegie Tech I.M. program to in­
dustry. To help achieve this end, 
copies of the December Carnegie 
Technical — written by members 
^ of the I.M. department — have 
™ been mailed to several prominent 
business firms.
A newsletter has recently been 
proposed to keep students and 
faculty notified of the Society’s 
activities. Any sophomore I.M. in­
terested in serving as editor of 
this publication, should contact 
Roger Simon as soon as possible.
Rick holds coveted Fisher Body Design Award
Bishop Wright Marks Week
Next Saturday evening (Mar. 2) i the country to honor the great
New Graduate 
Program Set
Tech’s department of graphic 
arts has announced a two-year 
program in graphic arts manage­
ment for qualified graduates in 
the fields of liberal arts and sci­
ence, engineering, or journalism.
? The program, which contains 
the same professional studies as 
the regular four-year course, 
qualifies the participant for a B.S. 
degree in graphic arts manage­
ment. It is designed specifically 
for college graduates who are in­
terested in careers in such fields 
as advertising, printing, publish­
ing, packaging, paper, ink, photo­
graphy, or other branches of the 
graphic arts industry. More ln- 
formation regarding the program 
can be obtained from the depart­
ment of graphic arts at Carnegie 
Tech.
S. GREEN
All Watches Electronically Tlmei
EXPERT WATCH AND 
JEWELRY REPAIRS 
123 Oakland Ave. MU. 1-6104
Bishop John Wright will speak on 
Cardinal Newman and Religious 
Controversy,” at Newman Hall at 
8 p.m. The Bishop’s address will 
mark the end of Newman Week, 
observed on campuses throughout
nineteenth century Churchman 
and writer.
After the talk, a reception will 
be held for the Bishop by mem­
bers of the faculty, students and 
associates of the Oratory.
#*COCA'COCA'> ***»Ml* r«AOC-MA4TM WMtC* OM4.V T»€ PffOOUCT Of TM* COCA-COCA COM PUTT.
...............fox trot
twist... waltz 
lindy... samba 
mambo...cha- 
cha-cha..bend
dip..hop..step
turn...bump...
whew... ~
take a break 
...things go better 
with Coke
?BAM-WA«« 9
Botttod under th« authority of 
Th# Coca-Cola Company byt „ 
QUAKER STATE COCA-COLA 
BOTTLING COJIPANf 
rttUbKrfh, raaaajr Usato
ALPHA PHI OMEGA 
“C” Book 
Box 282
Name............................................................................ Major
Address .......................................................................................
Phone Number .......................................................................
On Campus
(Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf', “The Many 
Loves of Dobie GiUis”, etc.)
with
MajcShuIman
GLAD RAGS
The hounds of spring are on winter’s traces. Soon buds the 
crocus, soon trills the/giant condor, soon come the new spring 
fashions to adorn our lissome limbs.
And what will the American college student wear this spring? 
Gather round, you rascals, and light a Marlboro Cigarette and 
enjoy that fine mellow tobacco, that pure white filter, and 
possess your souls in sweet content, and listen.
As everyone knows, campus fashions have always been casual. 
This spring, however, they have gone beyond being merely 
casual: they have become makeshift.
The object is to look madly improvised, gaily spur-of-tho- 
moment! For example, why don't you girls try wearing a 
peasant skirt with a dinner jacket? Or matador pants with a 
bridal veil? Or Bermuda shorts with bronze breastplates? Bo 
rakish! Be impromptu! Be devil-take-the-hindmost!
And, men, you be the same. Try an opera cape with sweat 
pants. Or a letter-sweater with kilts. Or a strait jacket with 
hip boots. Be bold! Be daring! Be a tourist attraction I
But all is not innovation in college fashions this spring. In 
fact, one of the highlights of the season turns time backward in 
its flight. I refer, of course, to the comeback of the powdered 
wig.
This charming accoutrement, too long neglected, has already 
caught on with in undergrade everywhere. On hundreds of 
campuses the bossa nova is giving way to the minuet, and 
patriotic undergraduates are dumping British tea into the 
nearest harbor. This, as you may imagine, does not sit well with 
King George III who, according to reliable reports, has been 
stamping his foot and uttering curses not fit to reproduce in 
this family newspaper. For that matter, a lot wf our own people 
are steamed up too, and there has even been some talk about the 
American colonies declaring their independence of England. 
But I hardly think it will come to that. I mean, how can we 
break with the mother country when we are dependent on her 
for so many things—linsey-woolsey, Minié balls, taper snuffers, 
and like that? ¡She, on the other hand, relies on us for turkeys, 
Marlboro Cigarettes, and Route 06. So I say, if Molly Pitcher 
and those other Radeliffe hotheads will calm down, and if 
gentlemen will cry ‘‘Peace! Peace!” we may yet find an 
amicable solution to our differences. But let not our British 
cousins mistake this willingness to negotiate for weakness. If 
fight we must, then fight we will! Paul Revere is saddled up, 
the rude bridge arches the flood, and the ROTC is armed I
Bat I digress. We were smoking Marlboro Cigarettes—O, 
splendid cigarette! O, good golden tobaccos! O, pristine pure 
white filter! O, fresh! O, tasty! O, soft pack! O, flip top box! 
O, get some!—we were, I say, smoking Marl boros and talking 
about spring fashions.
Let us turn now to the season’s mast striking new feature- 
pneumatic underdrawers. These inflatable garments make fevery 
chair an easy chair. Think how welcome they will be when you 
sit through a long lecture! They are not, however, without 
certain dangers, Last week, for example, Rimbaud Sigafoos, a 
sophomore at the University of Pittsburgh, fell out of a 96th 
story window in the Tower of learning. Thanks to his pneu­
matic underdrawers, he suffered no injury when he struck the 
sidewalk, but the poor fellow is still bouncing—his seventh 
consecutive day—and it is feared that he will starve to death.
£ 1963 Mit Shulaees• * *
Fashions come, fashions go. but year after year Marlboro 
C igarette.*, sponsor» of this column, bring you the tastiest 
tobaccos and a pure white tiiter too. Try Marlboro »ooru

---------------------------------------------------

CARN E — CARNEGIE TARTAN » Wednesday, Februry t?, IMS
Edi torio«
Activities Start For Spring Term
The next month or so marks an annual 
metamorphosis on the Tech Campus and all 
campuses across the nations. It is the change 
of the activities year. New members will be 
sought, new officers will be elected, the 
character of whole organizations will be 
determined and perhaps altered for the next 
academic year.
Those wishing to participate in this, 
Tech’s extra-curricular life, cannot approach 
this period without considerable thought and 
preparation if their non-academic hours are 
to be fruitful. One must plan an extra-curri­
cular schedule almost as carefully as an aca­
demic schedule. In fact, perhaps we must 
plan more carefully, because there are no 
required courses — all are electives.
The list of available activities should be 
studied before one deduces which to join. 
One should set his extra-curricular goals in 
the same way he sets his academic goals, and 
then select those activities which will bring 
these goals to realization. Intensity of in­
terest is more important than diversity of 
activities. No organization wants members 
just to lengthen the roll. It wants active 
members, interested and participating mem­
bers, members who will serve the organiza­
tion faithfully, and, above all, will be willing 
to assume responsibility.
A problem of this type has plagued Tech 
organizations through the years. Not that 
members are unwilling to assume responsi­
bility, but that they frequently do not fulfill 
these responsibilities. The reasons for this 
usually falls into three catagories. First,
Readers Write
there is the individual who was really never 
well-meaning. He sought the glory with no 
intention of doing the work. The only remedy 
here is that the organization itself select its 
officers with care.
The other two cases involve well-meaning 
individuals who eventually find themselves 
in hot water. First, it is imperative that an 
individual be cognizant of his own capabili­
ties. If not, one is apt to assume more respon­
sibility than he can skillfully handle. The in­
dividual who has already displayed compe­
tence and leadership ability will be hardest 
pressed, for many organizations will seek his 
talents. The more he proves himself compe­
tent, the more responsibility others are will­
ing to delegate to him. A well-placed “No” is 
frequently the best answer.
Finally, we have the individual who finds 
friction between his academic and extra-cur- 
ricular activities generating sparks. With 
good planning one may do both satisfactor­
ily. However, this problem usually results 
because the academic and extra-curricular 
years change at different times. Thus, one 
who has plenty of time to join this semester 
may find himself lacking time in the fall. For 
this reason one must be aware of what will 
be expected of him in the future as well as 
in the present academically. How often has 
an enthusiastic sophomore become a cynical 
junior because of this.
Were each of us to keep these points in 
mind the Tech organizations which now 
merely exist might find the leadership neces­
sary to make theirs a valuable contribution 
to campus life.
Readers Give Warning and Protest
Researcher Blasts 
Tech Drug Debate
Editor, The Tartan:
One of the first lessons stu­
dents are taught at Tech and 
presumably any school of high­
er education is not to form 
judgements or take stands con­
cerning a subject on which they 
are not well - informed. The 
problem of drug addiction in 
our society is one of the most 
complex, misunderstood, exist­
ing today. No one-column edi­
torial or rebuttal can possibly
«‘«CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Offices: Skibo, Room 50, Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
Office phone, MU. 2-4557; Editor-in-Chief, MU. 3-0407; 
Business Manager, MU. 2-9580; Advertising Manager, MA. 
1-1504; Managing Editor, MA. 1-6610. Published weekly 
during the school year except holidays and examination 
periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Annual Subscription Rate S2.50 
Second Class Portage Ppid at Pittsburgh. Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.
Editor-in-chief ................................Martin Ackermann
Executive Editor.......................................Elaine Grumer
Managing: Editor ..........................................Fritz Klinke
Business Manager .......................................Miron Straf
News Editor ....................................................Margie Park
Assistant News Editor.................................. Jan Scharp
Features Editor ..................................B. J. Zimnewicz
Copy Editor ....................................................Anne Moser
Advertising Manager ......................Charles HoFook
Sports Editor ....................................................John Blue
Layout Editor................................................Allan Pollock
Secretarial Editor .........................................Kathy Vogel
Circulation Editor ............................Mike Greenawalt
Edit »rial Board: Mark Applebaum. Colin Jones. Margie Park, Henry Henderson. 
B. J. Zimnewicz, Miron Straf. and Chuck First.
Layout Staff: Nancy Cameron. Mike McCoy. Sue Stitt, Marion Mulligan, Drew
Lippay, Dick Elder. Frit/. Klinke. Tom Glassberg.
3au. Frank Brady, Gladys Stal-
provide enough factual infor­
mation regarding addiction. 
Judgements and conclusive rem­
edies are therefore invalid.
For the past six months I 
have been doing independent re­
search concerning the composi­
tion and affects of drugs, case 
histories of addicts, facts des­
cribing the present as well as 
proposed methods for treatment. 
Definite attitudes and opinions 
are beginning to take shape in 
my mind, but even after this 
relatively extensive study, I do 
not feel qualified to make wild 
generalizations or rash predic­
tions. Although I would like 
nothing more than to make 
Tech’s population aware of the 
facts concerning this problem, 
space does not permit such a 
critical elaboration. How­
ever, may f*5uggest to Mr. Axel- 
rad, Miss Farb and anyone else 
interested in reading a concise, 
enlightening introduction to the 
many aspects of drugs, Drugs 
and the Mind by Dr. DeRopp.
Z. P. L.
Jones, Marty Moore, FaNews Staff: C<
insky. Ja\e Lapidus. Elie Denbc 
Elinoff, Janice Lester, J;(m Leor 
Riva. Judi Meyers. Jan Scharp. 1 
Cindy Wolfson. Ellen Hamill, Nai
Rpnrt»: Scott McCormick. Ken Kant 
Secretarial Staff: Betsy Bellows, Mar
Circulation: T 
Feature* Staff
Miriam Gillespie. Marion Mulligan. Lois 
Maity Sau?r. Chuck Steinmeyer, Peggy 
•ty Siegel. Sallv Sheats. Sandy Lancaster, 
Adam', Sandy Byrne.
Breilenstein, Jane Cline, Susan Witt, and
C«|>? Staff: Jane Keeler. 
Muir, Claire Dzatko. >
Photography: Rick Black!
n, Ginny Uliss, Verna Rcan 
Steinbaugh, Bill Jack-on.
Reader “Praises”
A (I mini st rat ion
An Open Letter 
To the Administration:
We would like to compliment 
you on the successful comple­
tion of your ten year develop­
ment program. We note with 
pride some of the more worthy 
achievements:
- 1. The installation of 15 cent 
pay toilets in Scaife Hall.
2. The installation of a 25 cent 
turnstile at the entrances of 
all major buildings, (al­
though this is often expen­
sive for students with class­
es in several different build­
ings. Also, it has been said, 
that the 25 cent fee to go 
from AH to Porter Hall is 
completely unreasonable.)
3. The announcement of a 50 
cent charge for the Fine
(continued on page 5)
A Candle in the Darkness
By Jeffrey Axelrad
Let Freedom Ring
The United States was founded by immigrants and the 
sons of immigrants. For over a century it grew and prosper­
ed while allowing the “homeless masses” of the world to 
freely enter, and become citizens of, the country. Then dur­
ing the 1910’s and 20’s agitation for restriction of this influx 
successfully created a climate of opinion unfavorable to 
“foreigners”; this agitation culminated in laws which placed 
quotas on the numbers of persons which could enter from 
other nations. These quotas have effectively stopped mass 
immigration — in 1910 foreign-born persons were 14.7% of 
the population; today they are 6.7%. Why the restrictions?
The more ilitant anti-communists fear that immigrants 
may be Communists or Communist tools. It would seem 
that people who have left their homes to excape Communist 
domination (as many persons being kept out have) would 
not be pro-communist, though. In fact many of the Hungar­
ian immigrants (allowed in because of their rebellion) have 
joined the extreme anti-communist movement. In any case, 
if the Communist wanted to place agents in the U.S., they, 
would not be stopped by immigration quotas.
Labor leaders claim that mass immigration would lower 
the wage scale for workers and cause depressions. This need 
not be so, however. The unions are strong and established, 
and surely have the power to keep wage rates high. The 
immigration may weaken the unions’ bargaining position 
somewhat, though. This will probably happen by govern­
ment action if not done otherwise — the cries that unions 
are too powerful become louder every month. And free im­
migration would restore the “balance of power” without re­
sorting to restrictive legislation.. It is notable that depres­
sions during the U.S.’s growing period (free immigration) 
were short, but that the one after limitation of immigration 
lasted a decade.
Some groups (the D.A.R., for example) feel that the 
Anglo-Saxon American tradition may be lost if immigration 
is increased. This would be almost impossible—today the 
United States has a population of over 180 million — nearly 
all of whom have been raised in, and accepted, this tradi­
tion. The question remains whether the tradition is in it­
self “good”. Perhaps confrontation with other cultures will 
raise questions that “should” be raised. A few million 
“foreigners” will hardly change the nation’s character any­
way.
Even the arguments presented above are not necessary. 
Are not all Americans immigrants? It.is arbitrary and un­
reasonable to forbid persons to enter since the nation was 
built iust such persons. Are Chinese less equal than 
Eng' "'he English immigrants were neither as indus­
trious i.jr had as stable a family unit as the Chinese — and 
these are Anglo-Saxon qualities! Agitation is needed today 
to restore free immigration into the U.S. (perhaps by 
gradual steps). Today the nation has turned its back on 
what the Status of Liberty stands for.
This Week in Pittsburgh
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 28
Film Arts — “The Hunchback of Notre Dame” (U.S. 
1923) Lon Chaney — Porter Hall 100 at 4:30, 7:00 and
'3:30.
Civic Arena — “An Evening with Count Basie and Tony 
Bennet” — 8:00 p.m. Special student rates.
FRIDAY, MARCH 1
Memorial Hall — “The Clancy Bros, and Tommy Maken” 
8:30 p.m. tickets at Skibo desk 
Pittsburgh Symphony — Charles Munch, guest conductor 
Rameau — Suite from “Dardamus”; Franck-Symphony 
in d minor; Debussy — Prelude to the Afternoon of 
the Faun; La Mer.
SATURDAY, MARCH 2
Mount Mercy College — Contemporary Dance Group 
Atonian Hall, 8:30 p.m.
MONDAY. MARCH 4
Penn Theatre — “Milk and Honey”, National Touring 
Company starring Robert Weede and Molly Picon. 
Continuing Events
Fulton — “The Longest Day”
Nixon — “Mutiny on the Bounty” — Marlon Brando 
Squirrel Hill — “The Loneliness of the Long Distance 
Runner”
Playhouse — “Bye Bye Birdie” Craft Avenue Theatre — 
“Fantasticks” — Hamlet Street Theatre 
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS 
Music Department
March 2 — Composers Forum — Music of Lester 
Trimble — 3:00 p.m. Carnegie Music Hall 
Drama Department
February 23-March 5 — “Misalliance” by George 
Bernard Shaw — Directed by Charles Werner 
Moore — (No Matinee)
Exhibitions
Through March 1 — Hewlett Gallery — Drawings by 
faculty artists of Amherst, Mt. Holyoke, Smith, 
Univ. of Massachusetts.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday. February 27, 1963 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Paff« 5
leaders Write Con't.
Writer Suggests 
“Pay As You Go”
(continued from page 4)
Arts elevator, (Although the 
stairway is only 10 cents.)
4. The increase to 35 cents, 
the charge for using a 
shower in the gym. (Neces­
sary because many indivi­
duals were taking liberties 
with the hot water.)
5. The charge of 20 cents to 
use the Morewood elevator. 
(Although sometimes unrea-
.-ÿ sonable when a girl wants 
a 5 cent candy bar in the 
basement.).
All of these innovations in the 
school policy suggest a need for 
some way for the student to save 
money. I think the answer lies 
in the philosophy of the ad­
ministration as stated in the 
February 13, 1963 TARTAN:
“ . . . allow a very flexible 
program, pay only as you Use 
... It will no longer be neces­
sary to purchase ... at a fixed 
rate . . . (something) that quite 
often is used only a few days 
a week . .*. ” The obvious ref­
erences is to the payment of $995 
a semester for tuition. Why not 
pay as you attend class, so that 
you can save money when you 
cut? Why should a student pay 
for a seat in a class that he is 
0 not using? Just give each stu­
dent a sticker at registration 
that would make him eligible to 
use the classes.
National Association for the 
Abolition of Coin Parking.
S.
1»
“ # *4 ' ¡ % ÉÌ
¦C ".?
International Club Visits 
Model UN In Montreal
Thirteen members of International Club returned last 
weekend from a five-day trip to Montreal, P.Q., Canada. In 
Canada, they took part in the University Model United Na­
tions which was attended by delegations from 75 other col­
leges from the U.S. Canada.
The Pittsburgh delegation, which included two girls from 
Chatham, was one of the largest there and reflected the inter­
est of the colleges in this area^
in international affairs. At the of nuciear free zones. We were
Nicoie Desurmont (Agnes), John-Pierre Delage (M. Bel- 
lac), Christine Barry (Therese) Gaston Yacchia (President),
Pitt Presents Program 
By French Traveling Company
Alliance Française, in co-opera­
tion with the Department of Ro­
mance Languages, University of 
Pittsburgh, presents “The Treteau 
de Paris” directly from Paris in a 
double bill, Sunday evening, 
March 10, at 8 p.m. in Stephen 
Foster Memorial on the Pitt Cam­
pus. The Treteau de Paris is a 
French Professional company with 
70 performances from coast to 
coast in 3 months. Under the 
sponsorship of Edouard Morot-Sir, 
Cultural Counselor at the French 
Emabssy, this superb t r o u p is 
making its second appearance in 
Pittsburgh, having played here 
last year to a most enthusiastic 
audience.
Two one-act plays will be 
given; Orphee by Jean Cocteau,
starring Bernard Verley, a “new 
Gerard Philip,” as Orphee, will 
also feature Coleete Teisedre As 
Eurydice. Completing the double 
bill will be the one-act classic 
“L’Apollon de Bellac” by Jean 
Giraudoux with Nicole Desur 
mont, as the ingenue par excell­
ence.
The sets and costumes are by 
France’s foremost designer, Jac­
ques Noel. The dresses have been 
created by couturiers Balenciaga 
and Pierre Cardin.
Large groups from the Schools 
and Colleges of the Tri-State and 
surrounding areas are attending. 
Tickets and information for the 
benefit of a scholarship fund may 
be obtained by calling Ma. 1-3500 
ext. 491, or Ch 1-6609.
English Discussion Group 
wDebates Keruac March 13
Keruac, Faulkner, Brecht — 
these three contemporary authors 
j and their writings are currently 
drawing discussion and debate 
from Tech students in and out of 
the classroom.
Interested in continuing in­
formal study of these authors and 
^;heir works, the English Discus- 
I *sion Group invites students from 
all of Tech’s colleges to attend a 
series of three discussions. Over 
a cup of coffee, both students and 
faculty members will have a 
chance to argue their ideas and 
opinions.
Jack Keruac and his novels, 
principally On the Road, will be 
the topic of debate at the first 
program of this semester, Wed­
nesday, March 13. Mr. Granville 
H. Jones, English instructor, will
lead the discussion, having de­
livered a speech on Keruac at the 
Tuesday assembly the previous 
day.
April 8, students from the 
Faulkner Seminar class will pi'e- 
sent comments on Faulkner and 
his works; and May 6, the German 
author and playright, Bertol 
Brecht will be reviewed and dis­
cussed by Polly Kipp, now writ­
ing her senior thesis on his works. 
All three discussions will begin 
at 7:30 p.m. in the Party Room 
at Skibo.
It is advisable that all students 
interested in attending the pro­
grams begin reading or re-reading 
On the Road for the first discus­
sion. Specific works to be dis­
cussed for remaining meetings 
will be available in the Tech book 
store.
S n S Announces Cast; 
31 Students Take Roles
Scotch ’n Soda is pleased to an­
nounce its cast for the 1963 pro­
duction. Handling major roles are: 
fcKathy Matter, Carole Haber. Jos- 
epha Gayer, Ken Matejka, Dick 
j Desberg, Sue Godin, Neal Hug- 
uley, Bill Burdett, Sandy Stone, 
Wendy Bers, Yettanda Enelow, 
Martha Hodgson. Linda Friedman, 
Adina Rosenfeld, Peggy Riva, Pat
Bonner and Marcia Israel. Others 
in the cast are: Karen Seanor, 
Lesley Lewand, Jack Turk. Larry 
Miller, Carole Wolfe, Joan 
Jaques, Jeannette Martire, Chris 
Bevevino, Karen Valen, Ken 
Tuma. New Garnhart, Erica Scha- 
fran. Ray Boorstein, and Dave 
Stock. Congratulations and good 
luck to you all.
Especially catering to the COED . . .
GAT
416 S. Craig Street
Specializing in women’s and misses apparel and accessories
HIGH-STYLED FASHIONS MODERATE PRICES
Where Browsing or Shopping Is a Pleasure 
Lay-a-Way — Charge Accounts
OPEN TUESDAY AND THl BSDAY ’TILL »
FREE PARKING AT ATLANTIC STATION — FORBES AND (RAM.
Freshman Week, 
Student Judge 
Applications Due
Applications are now being ac­
cepted for the position of Chair 
man of Freshman Orientation 
Committee of Student Congress 
and for the positions of Student 
Court Justices.
Any Freshman, Sophomore, or 
Junior interested in becoming 
Chairman of Freshman Orienta­
tion Week should present his ap­
plication for this office to Execu 
tive Council, 103 Skibo, before 
4:30 p.m. on February 28.
There are three one year terms 
(March 1963 through January 
1964) open on Student Court. To 
qualify for these openings, an ap­
plicant must be a full-time un­
dergraduate and a Sophomore or 
Junior, but he cannot be a mem­
ber of either Student Congress or 
Executive Council. Applications 
for these three positions will be 
accepted by executive Council, 103 
Skibo, until 4:30 on March 7.
NOW SHOWING 
WED., THIRS., FRL. SAT.
SIN.. MON.. TVES. 
Betty Davis Joan Crawford 
WHATEVER HAPPENED 
TO BABY JANE 
also
Charlton Heston 
Elsa Martinelli 
THE PIGEON THAT 
TOOK ROME
STARTING WED., MAR. »
THE SKY ABOVE. 
THE MUD BELOW
Academy Award Winner
also
Kenneth Connor 
and Shirley Eaton
NO PLACE LIKE 
HOMICIDE
Model United Nations each dele­
gation represented one country or 
more in the United Nations. We 
had four: Panama, Algeria, Tn- 
nisis, and Ceylon. Each delega­
tion spoke to the Assembly about 
its country’s stand on various 
questions such as the admission 
of Red China; the problems of 
Rhodesia and the establishment
Publisher 
Looks For
Writers
The winner of a unique book 
review competition will receive a 
summer editorial job with a major 
New York publishing firm. Salary, 
board and winner’s round-trip 
traveling expenses will be paid 
by the sponsor, Grosset and Dun­
lap, Inc., publisher of the Univer­
sal Library line of quality paper­
back books.
The competition is open to all 
current undergraduates of ac­
credited colleges and universities 
in the United States. It will run 
from March 15 through May 1. 
The review of no more than 500 
words must be based on one of 
twenty-four Universal Library 
paperbacks specified by the pub­
lisher. There will be twenty-five 
second prizes of twenty-five Uni­
versal Library titles each and 
twenty-five third prizes of ten 
Universal Library titles each.
The winner of the grand prize 
will be a regular member of the 
Grosset and Dunlap editorial staff 
for nine weeks, from July 1 to 
August 31, 1963. He will partici­
pate in conferences with others of 
(continued on page 6)
rather better prepared than most 
for we had an Algerian in the 
Algerian delegation, an Arab with 
Tunisia, an Indian speaking for 
Ceylon and South Americans with 
Panama.
Carnegie Tech put up, in the 
words of the sponsors, a “splendid 
performance.” We were instru­
mental in passing the only almost 
unanimous resolution, and Mi­
chael Adler received the aw'ard 
for the “Second-most Effective 
Speaker.” The Club thanks the 
school and particularly Dean 
Swank for making this reward­
ing trip possible.
Junior Year 
in
New York
An unusual one-year 
college program
Write for 
brochure JY-2
Junior Year Program 
Washington Square 
College 
New York University
New York C, N.Y.
SAVINGS EARN 
LIBERAL Æm 
DIVIDENDS a/of*§%
Franklin iFEDERAL 
SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATION
ARNE FORBES AVE.. SQUIRREL HILL
Ovtr SS Year$ »/ Sirviet to thi Pittsburgh Community
open every Tuesday evening 
7 p.M. to 8 30 p.n
MU. 3-6992
• Save by mail. We pay postage and provide free envelopes, too,
• Save by the 10th — earn from the first.
• All savings insured up to $10i,000.
STUDENT 
TRA Y EL...
STUDENTS 
CAN AFFORD I
„ STUDY-TRAVEL 
PROGRAMS
some scholarship 
assistance available 
Also Work Camp 
& Hosteling 
42-46 land days ... from $300
33 ITINERARIES
featuring:
Western & Central Europe 
Eastern Europe & USSR Scandinavia • Spain 
Turkey • South America 
Israel • Greece 
36-60 land days ... from $510 
also
INDIVIDUAL AND GROUP 
DRIVE-YOURSELF TOURS 
and
BERMUDA SPRING WEEKS
$239 all-inclusive by air
SERVICES FOR INDEPENDENT STUDENT TRAVELLERS
International Student ID card................................................ $1.00Handbook on Student Travel (Lodgings and Restaurants) ... $1.00Work, Study, Travel Abroad...................................................... $1.00
European charter flights and other transportation
U. S. NATIONAL STUDENT ASSOCIATIONEducational Travel, Inc., Dept. CN 20 West 38th Street, New York 18, N. Y OXford 5-5070
“USNSA i» a non-profit organization serving the American student community

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, February 27, 1963
Beryllia Announces 
Summer Works & Grants
The National Beryllia Corporation will sponsor a 1963 
European Summer Work and Travel-Grant Contest, in which 
hundreds of dollars in awards will be made for the best illus­
trations, press releases, essays and sales promotion efforts for 
the International Student Information Service “EARN and 
LEARN ABROAD” Program. Entries must be submitted by 
March 21, 1963.
Awards will be applicable to a London-Paris orientation 
Seminar Program. The Seminar includes a visit to London 
and Paris, roundtrip jet transportation from New York to
1963 English Lecture Series 
Features Recognized WritersO
One of this century’s most influential writers and critics, 
two recently recognized novelists, and the best known and 
most successful of the “beat” writers, will be discussed in the 
1963 Lecture Series of the Department of English.
The series, which began Tuesday, February 26, and will ^ 
continue weekly until Tuesday, March 19, will include lec­
tures on T. S. Eliot, David Michael Jones, William Golding, 
and Jack Kerouac. The lectures will be delivered by members 
of the faculty of the Department of English at 11:30 a.m. on 
four successive Tuesdays in the Carnegie Theater, College of 
Fine Arts. ?
Scotch ’n Soda 
Introduces 
Regina Ress
Scotch 'n Soda didn’t turn its 
presidency over to a woman this 
year, namely, Miss Regina Ress, 
because she had no male competi­
tors for the position. The fact is 
that Regina knows her business 
and knows it well. You who know 
Regina only as a junior English 
major will be surprised to dis­
cover that she is a real showwo- 
man of magnificent spirit, ability, 
and a fountain of energy.
She’s one of those people who 
seem to have show biz in their 
blood and instinctively know what 
makes a show tick. However, al­
though Regina’s work for S’nS 
has formerly been as a member 
of the cast appearing last year as 
*‘Bebe,” a N.Y. society matron, she 
knows that all that glitters open­
ing night is backed by solid gild­
ing for months prior to the show.
Regina’s other performance for 
S’nS was for the ’61 show, “Ani­
mation,” in which she played the 
part of Virginia Snapp, a rather 
contrary little girl. The long step 
from a stubborn ten year old to 
a society matron is not such a 
great step for a seasoned actress 
of Regina’s type. That summer 
Regina went west where she per­
formed for the Colorado Shake­
speare Festival. She played Hos­
tess Quickly in Henry V, Maria in 
Love’s Labour’s Lost, and worked 
as assistant stage manager for 
King Lear. To complete the list, 
she also performed in the Y Play­
ers production of The Happy 
Time, and in The Admirable 
Creichton as Tweeney.
Her years of study at the play­
house and her devotion to modern 
dance added to her enthusiastic 
interest in people, music, and art, 
only hints at potential and cap­
abilities of S’nS woman presi­
dent.
It is a little late in the season 
to wish Regina success, because 
already she’s proved herself quite 
capable in behind the scenes or­
ganization and pre-casting pro­
jects. It only remains to watch 
her perform as magnificently as 
always, and win the laurels she so 
well deserves.
Internafl Deans 
Confer at Tech
Ten engineering deans and pro­
fessors from eight Latin American 
countries visited Tech on last 
Thursday and Friday.
The visit was the final part of 
a two-week Inter-American En­
gineering Educators’ Conference 
sponsored by Case Institute of 
cooperation with Carnegie Tech, 
Technology, Cleveland, Ohio, in 
the University of Illinois, the Uni­
versity of Kansas, Ohio State Uni­
versity, and the National Science 
Foundation. Countries represented 
by the visitors are Argentina, 
Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa 
Rica, Mexico, Peru, and Venezuela.
Professor Paul L. Smith of Car- 
negie Tech’s electrical engineering ; 
department was in charge of the 
local program. While on the Car- j 
negie Tech campus, the educators 
were given information on under- I 
graduate and graduate curricula 
in the departments of mechanical) 
and electrical engineering, and 
toured classes and laboratories.
The conference was part of a 
long-range program to help indus­
trial development in Latin Amer­
ica by strengthening technical 
education at the university, high 
gchool, and trade school levels.
London, and a paying summer* 
job in Europe, if desired. Stu­
dents from 16 to 35 years of 
age are eligible.
For the most part, job open-
Music Majors 
Announcement
Auditions for solo appearances 
with the Carnegie College Com­
munity Orchestra and the Car" 
negie Chamber Orchestra will be 
held on Saturday, March 23, from 
2:00 to 4:00 p.m. in Exhibition 
Hall and the Fine Arts Theatre.
These auditions will be limited 
to Juniors, Sub-seniors and Sen­
iors of the Department of Music 
taking Public Pei'formance credits 
and to members of the orchestras 
who are not enrolled in the Music 
Department. Music Department 
applicants must have written per­
mission from their private in­
structors to enter auditions. Com­
munity orchestra members must 
have permission from Mr. Harth 
to enter auditions.
Applicants must be prepared to 
play all of a published solo work
• written for their particular instru- 
I ment. This work must be one that 
originally was conceived for solo 
with orchestral accompaniment by 
the composer.
In the case of string, wind in­
struments or voice, piano accom­
paniments at the audition are ad­
visable but not obligatory.
The judges for the audition are: 
Sidney Harth, chairman. Ralph 
Hoy, Arthur Kubey, William 
Skerlong, Forrest Standley, and 
Nelson Whitaker.
Unique Review 
Competition 
Announced
(continued from page 5)
the editorial department, sit in on 
sessions with authors, agents, ar­
tists, book production specialists
— in short, he will be in a work­
ing laboratory of the book pub­
lishing field and be paid a salary 
of $100 per week, too.
Columbia University is co-oper­
ating in the project by agreeing to 
house the student in one of its 
dormitories.
Rules and information about the 
competition can be obtained by 
writing to: “Book Review,” Gros-
ings are in unskilled categories 
with minimal or no language 
qualifications. They cover such 
occupations as farming, construc­
tion and factory work, child care 
and hotel-resort wx>rk. Wages are 
based on the standard rates in 
the various countries and may 
range from room and board in 
a Swedish, French, or English 
work camps to $190 a month in 
a West German factory.
Students wishing to enter the 
contest may obtain sample ma­
terials and application blanks by 
sending their names and school 
addresses to: National Beryllia
Corporation, P.O. Box 1055, New 
York 8, N.Y.
John A. Hart, associate pro­
fessor, opened the fifteenth an­
nual lecture series with a discus­
sion of the works of T. S. Eliot, 
one of the most widely read auth­
ors of modern times. Professor 
Hart received his B.A., M.A. and 
Ph.D. degrees from Yale Univer­
sity and has been on the Car­
negie Tech faculty since 1946.
On March 5, Earle R. Swank, 
lecturer in Engilsh and Dean of 
Men, will lecture on David Mi­
chael Jones. Jones, although writ­
ing for many years, has received 
recent recognition mostly because 
of his novel In Parenthesis which 
has been described as “perhaps 
a monumental elegy of World 
War I.” Dean Swank holds a B.A. 
degree from Muhlenburg College i
and an M.A. from Harvard Uni­
versity.
Granville H. Jones, instructor 
in English, will giv'- the third ^ 
lecture in this year’s program 
on March 12. Mr. Jones will dis­
cuss Jack Kerouac, well-known 
author of On The Road. Mr. Jones 
holds his B.A. degree from Bay­
lor University and his M.A. from 
Columbia University.
The concluding lecture in the 
series will be de>/ered by 
Arthur T. Broes, instructor in 
English. Mr. Broes will discuss 
William Golding, whose Lord of ^ 
the Flies has replaced J. D. Sal-* 
inger’s Catcher in i\e Rye as the 
most popular novel among college 
students.
This series is free to the public.
set and Dunlap, 1107 Broadway, 
| New York 10, N. Y.
All persons, living on 
campus, who are interested 
in working on the business 
staff of
THE
CARNEGIE 
TARTAN
in a position of responsi­
bility and who can devote 
1-2 hours per WEEK, 
please call MU. 2-4557 
and leave name and tele­
phone number and the 
times you can be reached.
“What responsibilities will you start with at W. E.?”
Exciting ones. With plenty of room for your pro­
fessional development. Western Electric’s busi­
ness depends on new ideas. And new engineers 
take responsible, immediate part in projects 
that implement the entire art of telephony — 
including electronic telephone offices, compu­
ter-controlled production techniques and 
microwave transmission. On many of these ex­
citing advances in communications, Western’s 
engineers work closely with engineers from our 
research team-mate, Bell Telephone Laborato­
ries. For Western Electric to maintain the Bell 
System’s ultra-high quality standards, extraor­
dinary manufacturing, process and testing
BOPIONU ACOaINna manufacturing and supply unit of the bell system
An equal opportunity employer
Principal manufacturing locations in 13 cities • Operating centers in many of these same cities plus 36 others throughout the U.S. 
Engineering Research Center, Princeton, N. J. • Teletype Corp., Skokie, III., Little Rock, Ark. • Gen, Hq.# 195 Broadway, N.Y. 7, N.Y*
techniques are required. Opportunities for fast* 
moving careers exist now for electrical, me­
chanical and industrial engineers, and also for 
physical science, liberal arts and business 
majors.
For more detailed information, get your tfopy of 
the Western Electric career opportunities book­
let from your Placement Officer. Or write Col­
lege Relations Coordinator, Western Electric 
Company, Room 6306, 222 Broadway, New 
York 38, New York. And be sure to arrange for 
a personal interview when the Bell System re­
cruiting team comes to visit your campus this 
year—or during your senior year.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, February 27, 1963 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Page 7
[nternat’l Club 
Debates Union
On the evening of Sunday, 
March 3, International Club will 
meet to discuss “The American 
Union in American Society.”
!^| In these days of tense prosper­
ity, the union is an often maligned 
I public body. Deserted by both its 
members and the sympathies of 
the public at large, the labor 
movement finds itself in a period 
of crisis. It is, perhaps, too easy to 
forget the honest fight labor had 
to conduct over many years. It is 
easier to ignore the fact that in 
rgjany respects, and for many peo- 
I pie, the fight is not yet over nor
¦ the issues less burning than be- 
| fore. The Club feels that such 
apathy can mean the eventual loss 
of an essential and articulate body 
of public opinion.
Two people will talk at the 
meeting. Mr. Dominic Dornetto, 
International Representative of 
Jhe United Auto Workers, will 
speak on “A Union View of Amer­
ica.” Mr. Dornetto, a graduate of 
Conley High School, has worked 
with Allis Chctlmers and has lived 
in Pittsburgh for 14 years. Dr. 
Leonard Rapping, Labor Econo­
mist and Assistant Professor of 
Economics of G.S.I.A., will speak 
on “An American View of the 
Union.” Both speakers will be 
^eady and are eminently qualified 
1o cope with questions from the 
I floor.
Providing background for the 
meeting, members of the Carnegie 
Ceilidh will sing some union folk
songs.
This promises to be one of the 
I best International Club meetings 
I of the year. Members and non- 
I members are cordially invited to 
! intend. The meeting will take 
I place on Sunday, March 3, in 
I Skibo at 8:30 p.m. Tea and coffee 
I will be served, as usual, after the 
I meeting.
Hunt Library 
j Offers New 
Copying Service
4 kw The library in now equipped 
I to provide copying service for 
I articles from journals or books in 
'I the library’s collections.
The charge is five cents a print- 
J ed page when the material to be 
| copied is presented, together with 
a Xerox order form, at the Refer- 
I ence desk. Payment is required in 
advance — in cash or by present- 
j ing a punch card (available in two 
r five dollar denominations in 
f the Cashier’s office).
Order forms may be picked up 
at the Reference and Reserve 
desks on the first floor or at the 
Arts and Science desks on the 
third floor.
Orders for copy of reserve ma­
terials will be accepted at the Re­
serve desk 8:30 a.m.-5:00 p.m., 
Monday through Friday, and 
fc>ooks must be checked at the desk 
before being removed for photo­
copying.
otèiII¡S-rJWEBSTER HALL
k______ ....____
You’ll rate with 'your date...
For a meal or just 
a snack-put Hotel 
Webster Hall on your close-to-campus entertain­
ment schedule.
kotefi Weta/ W oil
4415 Fifth Av*nu« PimburoH 13, Po. TaUphon«: MAyflow«r 1-7700 ______
Interested In Arts? 
Join Summer In Isles
Students interested in theater, 
films, and broadcasting are invited 
to join the “Summer in the British 
Isles” programs, sponsored co-op­
eratively by the Syracuse Univer­
sity School of Speech and Dra­
matic Art and the Experiment in 
International Living. The pro­
gram will permit students to gain 
college credit for a course in 
Contemporary British and Irish 
Theater,” while engaging in first­
hand observation and study of the 
performing arts in Britain.
The group, which is under the 
direction of an academic chair­
man from Syracuse and its ap­
pointed leader, will spend approx­
imately ten days in London, four 
days in Stratford-upon-Avon, sev­
en days in Edinburgh, and two 
days in Paris. In addition, each 
participant will spend three weeks 
in the - private home of a British 
family. The group will leave the 
United States about July 15 and 
return about August 25. The cost 
of the trip, including transporta­
tion, board and lodging, will come 
to $1020, and tuition for each un­
dergraduate credit hour will be 
$30.
Students interested in the pro­
gram may obtain application
forms from: SUMMERS ABROAD, 
University College, 610 East Fay­
ette Street, Syracuse 3, N.Y. Ap­
plications will be acepted from 
undergraduates, graduate stu­
dents, teachers, and other adults 
interested in an academic program 
abroad, and should be submitted 
before April 1, 1963.
Brave Jr. Souls 
Design Classroom
In a monumental cooperative 
effort the junior industrial design 
class “en masse” redesigned and 
redecorated their classroom on 
the third floor of the Fine Arts 
building. Starting at 4:30, Feb 
ruary 15, the brave souls began 
tearing down moth-eaten cabinets 
and moldy display panels and by 
Monday afternoon they had been 
replaced by newly installed wall 
panels, fresh paint, and a new 
blackboard.
These are the members of the 
Junior ID class who have labored 
for a bigger and better C.I.T. 
Gary Ftfrcey, Kurt Heinz, Paul 
Helgeien, Harry Riley, Pete Ryck- 
man, George Scherring, Chuck 
Sponder, Brooks Van Dyke and 
Mike Wodka.
Jack Moore Dance Company 
Presents Benefit Concert Mar. 2
Pittsburgh is fortunate to have a lively and exciting 
dance group coming to perform. The Jack More Dance Com­
pany of New York will present a benefit concert in Antonian 
Hall of Mount Mercy College on Saturday, March 2, at 8:30. 
This young group comes here directly from an engagement in 
New York City.
Unlike many of the dance
groups which come to Pittsburgh 
again and again with the same 
material, this group brings com­
pletely new work. One exciting 
attraction is a modem ,'azz num­
ber entitled “Dancehall.” The 
music for this is by Pee Wee Rus­
sell, Theolonius Monk, and Bley. 
Two Alban Berg selections are 
also used in the program. One of 
these is a solo by Mr. Moore 
which was choreographed for him 
by Anna Sokolow. Miss Sokolow, 
a frequent Pittsburgh visitor, is 
now associated with the new Lin­
coln Center in New York.
Mr. Moore, a former soloist 
with Martha Graham, is on the 
faculty of Bennington College and 
is President of Contemporary 
Dance, Inc. Another prominent 
member of the company is Jean 
Leary, who worked with Martha 
Graham and the school of Amer­
ican Ballet and is well known 
here for teaching two summer 
dance courses at the Genevieve 
Jones Studio. Other members of
the company includes Nancy 
Lewis, a former soloist with Jose 
Limon, Nancy Comstock, and 
Chester Wolenski.
This concert is being sponsored 
by the Pittsburgh Chapter of the 
Dance Teachers’ Guild which is 
working to bring many fine dance 
performers to Pittsburgh. Tickets 
priced at $2 and $1 for students 
are on sale at Gimbel’s, the Pitt 
Student Union, and Wagner-Bund 
Music Company.
SENIORS
Looking for WorkI
Consider Bremer and 
Walker Associates for 
your job placement. 
Engineers - Liberal Arts
Bremer & Walker Associates 
976 Union Trust Bldg. 
Pittsburgh 19, Penna. 
Telephone: 471-9319
talk to Lord 
about careers in 
vibration /shock /noise control
ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS Thursday, February 28, 1963
See your Placement Office for an interview with the Lord representative.
X-iord Manufacturing Company 
has specialized for over 35 years 
in development and application 
of engineered systems to control 
the effects of vibration, shock 
and noise. As the acknowledged 
leader in this field, our technology 
has influenced design and per­
formance of mechanical devices 
throughout industry.
what does Lord do?
Your career at Lord would involve 
you in such challenging assign­
ments as the design, development, 
testing or manufacture of:
• a remarkable family of elastomers 
•with broad temperature capabilities
• engine mountings for most out­
board engines, light aircraft, 
heavy trucks
• a revolutionary traction motor 
mounting for railroad locomotives
• a new concept now being adopted 
for marine dock fendering
• the most sophisticated shock 
attenuation system ever developed 
(cushions 1000 G shocks)
• high-reliability protection for 
inertial guidance systems on all 
major missiles.
These are past accomplishments. 
We are looking for men who can 
accept responsibility, and contrib­
ute to our rapid growth and diver­
sification.
GIST SUO TIO FHHFUTLYiTiOs?
Our field is broad, with challeng­
ing opportunities for high-caliber 
graduates interested in: mechani­
cal, chemical, industrial, metallurgical 
and aeronautical engineering .. phys­
ical, organic, polymer and rubber 
chemistry...physics and mathematics.
GIST dFOs LFUd FffOU?
To the qualified man, Lord offers 
... a medium-size company that is 
research - or iented, qual ity - min ded
... rapid professional development
... a creative atmosphere with 
capable associates
... continued learning through 
company programs, advanced 
classes, seminars
... salary commensurate with your 
contributions
... a pleasant community with good 
cultural, religious, educational and 
recreational facilities.
Carnegie Tech men have capital­
ized on this opportunity. Tech 
alumni now hold such positions at 
Lord as Manager of Engineering, 
Product Manager, Engineering 
Supervisor, Design Engineer, Re­
search Physicist, Research Engi­
neer and Field Engineer.
If the opportunities in vibration/ 
shock/noise control appeal to you, 
investigate further with Lord.
LORD MANUFACTURING COMPANY • ERIE, PENNSYLVANIA

---------------------------------------------------

Page S — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, February 27. 196S
ENGINEERS
Consider . . .
- the position that is 
different
- opportunities in the 
growing field of fire 
protection engineering
- as adv isors to top 
industrial organizations
TRAINING GIVEN
INTERVIEWS
FY cSmHLs: MSUcI A
FACTORY MUTUAL 
ENGINEERING DIVISION
YFL'll smFkO GiTI S fUOsI OYTILsiSsm 
GIOY yFL discFvOU TIO cFFl SiU-sFfTOYOd' TSsTO Ff SSlOm
• menthol fresh • rich tobacco taste • modern filter, too
Tech Runs Nursery 
For All to Benefit
All you have to do is squeeze and presto — instant holes.
And, can you imagine, some people think the Mona Lisa 
is even better.
by Marian Mulligan f opportunity for Tech students,
Carnegie Tech runs a nursery ] particularly those taking the child 
school, and students who don’t be- development course, to study the 
lieve it should visit the center, i 
which is located in the basement 
of the new edition to Margaret 
Morrison College.
They will find a cheery and 
spacious room equipped to satisfy j 
the activities of about twelve chil- j 
dren, aged 2V2 to 3M>. They will 
also quite possibly meet Mrs. I 
Marilyn Hammond, home econom- ’ 
ics teacher, and supervisor of the | 
nursery.
She explains that the school, 
which was started some twenty 
years ago, is run to provide an
behavior of young children. In the 
laboratory these students, especi­
ally from the home economics and 
psychology departments, individu­
ally observe the children two 
hours weekly. They are required 
to watch the social, emotional, and 
mental development of the young­
sters during one semester and to 
prepare a summary of their ob­
servations.
What they observe are the ac­
tions of normal youngsters play­
ing in individual and group situa­
tions. The children have, at their 
disposal, toys and learning equip­
ment from play telephones and
dolls to picture books and blocks. 
No reading is taught to the young­
sters. The department feels that 
at this age children need more 
experience in feeling textures and 
exploring their environment. With 
such a background it is hoped that 
the children will be prepared to 
tackle reading and other more ad­
vanced subjects in grade school.
“We are not a permissive 
school,” says Mrs. Hammond, “We 
want the children to respect re­
sponsible authority.”
The children enrolled in the 
nursery -school are chosen from 
applications of parents within the
Tech community and the immed­
iate area. They are chosen by 
their age, sex, and readiness for 
nursery school, a factor which is 
determined by the instructor. The 
group is small so that the children 
may receive individual attention O' 
during their three hour morning 
sessions five times a week.
The program benefits not only 
the children and Tech students 
Mrs. Hamond was quick to note. 
Several of her colleagues are do­
ing extensive research on child 
development and draw almost all 
of their data from experience in 
the nursery itself.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, Febtwj GIS TUEO — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Fa«e 9
By John Blue
Tech basketball continued to 
improve by leaps and bounds as 
J?he Tartans handed a good Mt.
¦ Union quint a 55-51 setback at 
the Skibo Gym on Monday, Feb­
ruary 18.
Said Coach Crasley, “This is a 
feather in our caps,” and it was. 
Mt. Union had lost to the top- 
ranked small college team in the 
nation, Witenberg, by only 6 
points just two nights before. 
Neidra Sparks Team 
Largely responsible for the win 
was Junior Andy Neidra. Neidra 
pulled down a total of 16 re­
bounds, high for both teams, hit 
10 points, and sparked the Tech 
defense throughout the game.
Hgh point man for Tech was 
Jules Borowski, coming on strong 
after his fall from grace, with 
15 points. Game scoring honors 
went to the Mount’s Tony Archi­
bald who collected 23 points, four 
above his 19 ppg. average.
Hot And Cold
Tech’s hot and cold offense wras 
red hot for 14 minutes—the first
10 and the last 4. In between, it 
scored just enough to keep the 
official scorer from going to sleep.
At better than two points per 
minute, Tech ran out to a 20-9 
lead before the 10 minute mark.
Leading the way were Morrison 
and Borkowskl with 6 points 
apiece and some sharp board 
work by Neidra and George Mc- 
Geary.
The second 10 minutes of the 
f- st half was a different matter 
as Tech only hit for 5 points. 
Fortunately, the Mounts picked 
up only 8 and Tech still had an 
8 point lead at halftime, 25-17.
The second half saw the Tar­
tans still cold, and with 4 min­
utes left to go, Mt. Union tied 
the score at 43 all.
Tech Hot Again
Andy Neidra then proceeded “;o 
drop in a hook shot that no one 
knew from whence it came, Mc- 
Geary stuffed one in after a Bor- 
kowski assist, and Borkowshi 
himself scored on a fast break 
that originated with a Werronen 
steal.
Borkowski hit another when the 
Mount’s full court press back­
fired, then duplicated his original 
fast break w^hen Werronen stole 
another one. Sam Cupps ended 
Tech’s scoring with a pair of 
foul shos.
Meanwhile, Mt. Union was only 
able to put together 8 points, 
mostly after Tech had lost inter­
est.
Laird Still Out
Tech was again playing without
its team leader, Joe Laird. Laird 
did see some very limited action, 
scoring twro points, but his in­
jured ankle kept him on the side­
lines for most of the game.
Tech 55—Mt. Union 51
fffaisftaItrebP‘pts
Neidra1235416510
Cupps5242646
McGeary5431919
Morrison124332111
Borkowski127613315
Werronen5100202
Thomas0020000
Laird1100032_»------— ---
52
Mt.
22 23 
Union
11411755
-iS»tgftaftrebP*pts
Dickerson155000110
Archibald19612118323
Riddle133521418Robinson3100422
Hunneke1021351Fisher2043633Green4100212
Schnoke0022012
Watkins0000010—.———-———
57162519371851
IM Bowling 
Ends Season; 
BTP Victors
Favored BTP won a narrow 
last minute victory over the Grad 
Eagles to take the intramural 
bowling championship trophy by 
the narrow margin of 2484 to 
2463. The score w’as tied going 
into the inal frame but Steve 
Kornblatt doubled in his tenth 
frame to give the Betas the mar­
gin they needed for victory.
The Grad Eagles jumped off to 
A an early, narrow nine pin lead 
after the first game 880 to 871. 
The second game saw the Betas 
pile up a thirty-one pin margin 
that the Grads couldn’t quite 
overcome. Trailing 1712 to 1681, 
the Grads caught up and dead­
locked the score after the ninth 
frame but here Steve Kornblatt 
doubled to pull the championship 
out of the fire for the Betas.
Roy Gingery was high man for 
^ the Betas and,for both teams with 
tine 584 series which included a 
game of 205. The leagues M.V.P. 
Bob Dervais w^as second with 514. 
The Betas scoring was rounded 
out with Steve Kornblatt’s 491, 
Pete Riccarleda’s 449, and Keith 
Pierce’s 446.
In the consolation round, Sig­
ma Nu topped Obelisk “A” 2391 
to 2322 to take third pjlace in 
_ the tournament.
VOOd lCeNi 
ENteUnhOP MOr 
FNeai FOek
Candidates for the Carnegie 
Tech Varsity Track team are 
asked to be present at an organi­
zational meeting in the Donner 
Hall dressing room at 4:30 P.M. 
Friday, March 1.
New Coach Reed Clark, a ’60 
i graduate of the . University of 
Pittsburgh and a protege of re- 
| tired coach Carl Olson, is look­
ing forward to an outstanding 
j season.
Only one letterman was lost 
from last years team that posted 
i a 5-5 record and took a strong 
third in the West Penn Confer­
ence meet. The rest will he back 
along with some outstanding 
freshmen and transfer studests to 
give Coach Clark a solid nucleus 
1 to work with.
LEWIS
Sales - Repairs 
RADIO - ELECTRIC CO 
RADIOS 
HIGH FIDELITY 
TELEVISION 
RECORD PLAYERS 
MA 1-4211
115 OAKLAND AVE
Boys night out? — Girls night out? 
Both night out?
Then Grab a Snack . . . or Dinner
... at RITTERS DINER
5324 Baum Blvd. (near Liberty)MU. 2-9318
Niedra goes up for score.
FUTURE
bright and unlimited for
Are you one of the three EE’s, or that one ME, with the qualifi­
cations we’re looking for? 
Our qualifications make interesting reading to the young gradu­
ate engineer interested in a future that is bright — virtually unlimited. 
Our Company is big — it’s still growing and right in the heart of 
an area that’s expanding rapidly. Our seaport is world famous. We’re 
minutes from Washington. New York and Philadelphia are just to the 
north. There’s good fishing, good symphonies, good art; it’s a 
do-or-die sports town; a land of pleasant living. 
Our Company is big — but we stay close to our customers, and 
closer to our personnel. Everyone gets an ample opportunity to 
move up.
Yes, the future here looks good. Talk with us about it.
Our Interviewer Will Be On Campus
TUESDAY. MARCH 5
BALTIMORE GAS AND ELECTRIC CO.,
a combination gas and electric company servicing 2,283 square miles of mid-Maryland
Tartans Defeat Mt. Union, 55-51; 
Niedra And Borkowski Spark Team

---------------------------------------------------

Paffe 10 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, February 27, 196S
Knepley Unable 
To Rescue Tech
Rifle Squad
(Carnegie Tech’s rifle team con­
tinued to boost its scores but was 
still not able to defeat Geneva 
or Grove City in a quadrangular 
match at the Tartan range. Tech [ 
shot a 1393. their best score since 
they shot 1398 against West Vir- . 
ginia at the beginning of the sea- j 
son, Geneva turned in one of | 
their best scores of the season, 
a 1404, to take top honors while 
Grove City also shot above their 
average with a 1395, two points i 
better than Tech.
Freshman Mike Knepley shot 
his best score of the season 99- 
97-92 in the prone, kneeling, and 
standing positions to lead all 
scorers with a 288. Joe Schlitt i 
shot a 281, second best for Car­
negie while Bob Fritz fired his 
best score of the year, 278. Mike 
Ray shot a 274, well below his 
average, and Tuck Arnold shot j 
272 to round out the Tartans 
scoring.
A wreek from this Saturday, 
Carnegie Tech will compete at 
the United States Military Acad­
emy at West Point. They will fiy t 
to New York on Friday and shoot ! 
Saturday in the Sectionals held 
by the Academy.
Classified Ads
PROFESSIONAL TYPING - HA. 1-1456. 
On electric typewriters, reasonable 
rates. Themes, Theses, Manuscripts, 
Term Papers, Applications, etc. Spel­
ling errors corrected
DANCE MUSIC — The Leo Alman 
Combo. HAzel 1-2083. Evenings.
Scriptrij)
\ [Positive l/lentification?
For Slide Rules ?
Jewelry, Lighters, and ? 
fountan pens engraved S
35c — $1 1
Inquire •
C.l.T. Bookstore cashier t
Of call T
Ml’. 1-8487 from 9-12 p.m I
ROsLlT: All C-sHOOd mSYLSl 
TUSYsmissiFYs iY 
FFUd-bLilT cSUs GiTI V-R’s 
YFG SUO fLlly syYcIUFYizOd 
iY OScI fFUGSUd gOSU
To get more "go" in low, Ford engineers 
were asked to upgrade the conventional 
3-speed transmission to give drivers 
more control in all three forward gears— 
to make "low" a driving gear—and they 
tackled the problem imaginatively.]
Their achievement, another Ford First,’ 
is the only U.S. 3-speed manual trans-j 
mission with all three forward gears^ 
fully synchronized I No need now to come^ 
to a complete stop when you shift into 
low—and no clashing gears! It lets you^ 
keep more torque on tap for negotiating 
sharp turns and steep grades. It makes 
driving more flexible, more pleasurable.;
Another assignment completed and 
another example of how engineering 
leadership at Ford provides fresh ideas 
for the American Road.
MOTOR COMPANY 
The American Road, Dearborn, Michigan 
WHERE ENGINEERING LEADERSHIP», 
BRINGS YOU BETTER-BUILT CARS.
IM Basketball Continues; 
Games Lack Surprises
by Scott McCormick
The top-seeded teams continued ' 
to win as expected as I.M. Bask- j 
etball swings into its second week 
of play. Due to two home basket- j 
ball games, only eighteen intra- j 
mural contests were played during ; 
the two nights that the gym was 
vacant.
The Roadrunners, PKT “A” and 
the Trojans “W” all kept up their 
unbeaten records with easy vic­
tories. The Trojans ran up a 13 
point halftime lead over a big Met 
Grad team and went on to win 
50-28. King with 13 and Oakes 
with 11 topped the scoring for 
the Trojans. Jack Scholl’s 20 
points led the Roadrunners to a 
57-25 victory over TX while 
Howie Pifer with 19 and Larry 
Lang with 18 aced the Phi Kapps 
over the Jaweewees 53-12. In the 
only other game played in the 
Warriors League. The Jaweewees 
came back to knock off ATO “T” 
44-34. Scott McCormick was high 
for the Jaweewees with 14 While 
Ted Ross scored 10.
In the big game in the Celtics 
League, Jack Lynch poured 23 
points through the hoop to lead 
Beta Theta Pi to a narrow 34-33 
victory over Beta Sig. John Op- 
penheimer scored 12 in a losing 
cause for BSR. Sigma Nu “A 
used its well balanced scoring at­
tack paced by Vandelinde’s 17
points. In other games, the Grad 
Eagles “B” whipped the Finks “A” 
55-14 with the Grad’s Don Hall 
scoring 18. On Thursday, the 
Finks came back to clip KS “B” 
27-24 to score their first win.
Chip McKnight’s 22 points and 
double figure scoring by Black­
wood, Grebos, and Hagarman led 
ATO “A’* to an easy 74-34 win 
over the EE Grads. ATO now 
leads all teams in scoring with 209 
points for a 70 p.p.g. average. 
Dick Scott and Jack Earley each 
scored 15 as DTD whipped TDP 
“White” 47-24 in the only other 
game in the Royal League.
In the two games scheduled in 
the Lakees League. Finks “B” 
topped PiKA 40-31 led by Ken 
Winko’s 17 points. In the other 
game, the Trotters forfeited to the 
Grad Eagles “A” team.
In the minor leagues, Tran- 
quilla, Jones and Becker all hit 
double figures for SAE as they 
beat the Clyde St. A.C. 54-16. The 
Marauders clobbered the Scor­
pions 45-19, SN ‘B” edged GDI 
“Z” 34-26, ATO “U” won over the 
Morlocks 36-17, and the Radicals 
knocked off PKT “Jags” 30-11.
Dick Pokryfka of Finks "B" 
applies what looks like a left 
cross to an unidentied PiKA 
player. Finks won, 40-31.
Nothing rasher for your hair than grease. Let Vitalis 
with V-7 keep your hair neat all day without grease.
Naturally. V-7 Is the greaseless grooming discovery. Vitalis® with 
V-7® fights embarrassing dandruff, prevents dryness, keeps your 
hair neat ail day without grease. Try Vitalis. today. You'll like ill

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, February 27, 1963 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Page 11
Tech Bows To St. Vincent, 69-68; 
Last Three Seconds Decides Game
by John Blue
Anyone conducting a research 
project on the elasticity of bask­
etballs? See Coach Mel Cratsley 
for data. The experimentation 
was carried out during the last 
three seconds of the Tech-St. Vin­
cent basketball game last Wed­
nesday night. Cause of the experi­
ment — Tech had just blown a 
^3-67 lead on some incredibly 
sloppy ball-handling to let the 
bearcats win by one, 69-68.
Before the ball could hit the 
floor after St. Vincent had scored 
the winning basket, Coach Crats­
ley had the ball and bounced it 
with such vigor that it rebounded 
to a height of over 20 feet.
Goat to Hero
As pleased as Cratsley was 
ngry was St. Vincent’s Dave 
Berkmyre, the boy that put in the 
final shot. Seconds before, with his 
team down one and trying to set 
up the last jhot, Berkmyre had 
allowed the ball to roll off his 
fingers and out of bounds. As 
Tech retrieved the ball and threw 
it in, Berkmyre stole it from the 
Tech receiver and sank the layup 
to change his status from goat to 
ero in less than a minute.
It was a night of some truly 
fine outside shooting and some 
truly miserably ball handling for 
both teams. Ray Morrison hit 10 
for 19 shots from the field, and 
wound up high scorer for both 
teams with 26 points. Jim Worth 
of St. Vincent garnered 18 points 
on 7-13 from the field and four 
fouls to take second honors.
Tech started slowly and saw 
»he bearcats jump off to an 8-2 
lead. The lead stayed at about six 
points throughout most of the first 
half. Ray Morrison, Joe Laird, a’id 
Jules Borkowski kept Tech in the 
game with the aid of some timely 
rebounding by Laird and Mc- 
Geary.
Morrison Hot
With Morrison on the prowl late 
in the first half, Tech made a 
J^’omeback of sorts to take the lead 
at halftime, 33-32. Second half 
play looked as if Tech really 
meant to make a rout of it as they 
quickly extended the lead to 38- 
32.
It wasn’t to last as Wirth and 
Berkmyre kept sniping away from 
the outside. St. Vincent regained 
the lead when Wirth was fouled 
on a layup try and he converted 
|his foul shots to make the score 
*56-55.
The bearcats tried a waiting 
game, and it almost worked as 
Tech made several mistakes in 
their zone press. The invaders had 
the lead at 65-60 before Tech be­
gan clicking again.
Tech Comeback
Joe Thomas hit a jump from the 
baseline, followed by a Laird 
^ayup. Ken Sweder hit a layup for
PITTSBURGH 
PLATE GLASS CO.
Chemical Division
INTERVIEW DATE: 
FRIDAY. MARCH 8. 1963
Opportunities available In six plants: 
Barberton, Ohio, New Martinsville, 
W. Va., Lake Charles. La., Corpus 
Christi, Texas, Bartlett, Calif., and 
Beauhamois, Quebec, Canada.
Producers of heavy Industrial chem­
icals: Soda Ash, Chlorine, Caustic
Soda, Anhydrous Ammonia, Titanium 
Tetrachloride, Barium, and other 
chlorinated products.
Research, analytical, plant problems, 
supervision, design, maintenance, 
plant layout, and standard procedure 
opportunities open for men in these
categories:
BS, MS, PhD Chemists: BS, MS
Chemical Engineers; BS, MS, Electri­
cal and Mechanical Engineers; BS In­
dustrial Engineer and Civil Engineers; 
BS Accountant.
the Vinnies, then fouled Neidra 
in the act of shooting, Neidra 
converted both to make the score 
66-67, St. Vincent.
The bearcats stalled the ball for 
a minute and a half. The stall 
was finally broken up by Hank 
Werronen as he intercepted a pass 
and fed Mbrrison for the score to 
put Tech ahead at 68-67.
The ensuing series of plays saw 
the Cratsley eruption.
Record 8-10
Tech’s record as of this writing 
is 8-10, with little hope of a .500 
season unless the Tartans humbl­
ed the mighty Pitt Panthers last 
night. Tech plays Case Tech to­
morrow night in its basketball
finale at the Skibo gym. 
time is 8:15.
Carnegie TecTi
Game
fg*rgftaftrebpfptsNeidra4i32534Cupps4212216McGeary3121653Borkowski185825112Morrison1910662326Laird105119211Werronen2000000Thomas1100002Ritchie2122114———————63
St.
26 23 16 
Vincent
331668
fgafgftaftrebPfptsBerkmyre127537417Sweder3122434Hobart6320206Simasek97524416Wirth137742318Tomasic5110542Goetz0000000Benko4300016Kane0000100—————¦——52292211281969
GUYS and DOLLS
BILL HELLER of Weinsteins in Oakland 
offers the most beautiful array of sandwiches 
and desserts this side of the Rockies
Our Take-Out Department of Delicatessen 
Foods and Pastries Are Unlimited
Call us at 682-7752
We will have it packed and ready
WEINSTEIN'S OF OAKLAND
3708 Forbes Ave.
Diners and American Express cards honored.
WHERE
IN
THE
WORLD . will you go after graduation? ... will you 
find challenging opportunity?...will you be in 10 years? These 
important questions you must answer within the next year.
Real opportunity is a two-way street, a 50-50 proposition. 
Your professional advancement is based on two interdepend­
ent factors:
First, the growth potential of the firm you join—secondly, 
your own competence and initiative.
The following figures show our ability to provide the first 
requirement. You must furnish the second.
Xerox Corporation has doubled its sales in the past three 
years—from $27 million annually to $60 million, with less than 
1% in military billing • tripled its profits—from $1.6 million to 
$5.3 million • increased employment from 1,650 to 4,300, 
branch offices from 17 to 35 ... And plans for the future are 
even more astounding (see Fortune, July, 1962).
Opportunities exist in the following areas: Research and 
engineering ? manufacturing * control • finance * sales.
Contact your placement office to arrange an interview with 
a Xerox representative, who 
will be on your campus ....
MARCH 11XEROX
CORPORATION

---------------------------------------------------

Pag« 12 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, February 27, 1963
Tech swimmer Randy French churns ahead of his Slippery 
Rock rival in the 500-yard freestyle event.
Tech Tankmen Beaten; 
Home Meets Finished
Tech Outswims Tech In Dual Meet
The Carnegie Tech Swimmers ? 
lost their last home meet of the 
season to Slippery Rock last Tues­
day, February 19, by a score of 
55-40. Freshman Geary Andrews 
led the Tech scoring with 15 
points, taking three first places. 
Andrews won the 200 freestyle, 
100 freestyle, and the 500 free­
style. Close behind Geary was 
Len Lester, who won the 200 
yard Individual Medley, took a 
second in the 200 yard breast 
stroke, and a third in the 200 
yard backstroke, for a total of 
9 points.
Slippery Rock jumped off to an 
early lead by winning the Med­
ley Relay and scoring a first in 
the 50 freestyle. The Tech swim­
mers slowly whittled away at 
the Rocket’s lead. Speyer and Mc- 
Cloy took second and third re­
spectively in the 50 freestyle, and 
Bennett captured a second in the 
diving. Wyman and Burdett then 
swept the 200 Butterfly, beating 
the opposition by a full length 
of the pool. This tied the score 
at 26-26. Andrew’s first in the 
100 freestyle gave the Tartans a 
one point lead, hut it was short 
lived, as Rocket’s Taylor and Er­
dos swept the 200 yard back­
stroke, giving Slippery Rock the 
lead which it did not relinquish 
for the rest of the meet.
The majority of Ihe events in 
the meet were decided by a mat­
ter of inches. All four swimmers 
in the 50 freestyle finished with­
in a period of one half of a sec­
ond. In the 500 freestyle, French, 
who held second place for most 
of the race, was passed by two 
Rocket swimmers during the 20 
length race. Perhaps the closest 
and the most suspensful event of 
the day was the 200 yard In­
dividual Medley. Tartan swim­
mer, Lester, just touched out 
Lawrey and Thewes of Slippery 
Rock, who, in turn, just touched 
our Brunson of Tech, who had 
held the lead until the last ten 
yards of the race.
The leading scorers for Slip­
pery Rock were Rollinger with 
9% points, followed by Taylor 
and White. Rollinger won the 50 
freestyle, took a second in the 
100 freestye, and anchored the 
winning freestye reay.
400 yds. Medley Relay SR (Winger, 
White, Thewes, Phillips), 4:26.6; 200
yds. Free Andrews (T) 2:09.6, Dugan
(SR), French (T); 50 yds. Free Rolling- 
er <SRi 2:5.8, Speyer (T), McCloy (T); 
gOO yds. Ind. Medley Lester (T) 2:34.4, 
Lawry (SR), Thewes (SR); Diving —.In- 
gersol (SR) 168.05. Bennett (T), Scarano 
(SRi; 200 yds. Butterfly Wyman (T) 
2:37.6, Burdett (T), Ference (SR); 100 
yds. Free Andrews (T) 55.1, Rollinger 
(SR), Phillips (SR): 200 yds. Back Tay­
lor (SR) 2:29.6, Erdos (SRI, Lester (T); 
600 yds. Free Andrews (T) 6:21.9, Dugan 
(SRI, Sterling (SR); 200 yds. Breast
White (SR) 2:43.0, Lester (T), Peter* 
(SR); 400 yds. Belay SR (Taylor, Nicho- 
r) 3:56.6.
By Bill Hartlep
Carnegie Tech lost its last 
dual swimming meet of the sea­
son last Saturday in Cleveland to 
Case Tech. The Tartans captured 
only one first place as Case rolled 
to a 60-34 victory. Tech did, 
however, take all of the third 
places and all but two of the 
second places. Snow and Knapp 
of Tech, respectively, swept the 
diving, as Snow captured the Tar­
tan’s only first place.
Tartan ace, Geary Andrews, 
who was hampered by a painful 
toe dislocation, showed his stel­
lar form by taking two second 
places in spite of his injury. In 
the 200 yard freestyle and the 
500 freestyle, Geary was just 
touched out by Mike Caesar of 
Case. Ceasar set Case pool and 
school records in both events with 
a 200 time of 2:02.1 and a 500 
time of 5:45.9. Andrews posted 
his best time to date in the 500, 
and set an unofficial new team 
record at 5:51.5 It was a day for 
personal records as Tartan swim­
mer Hartlep beat his best pre­
vious time to take a third in the 
500 freestyle; Bell of Tech did 
the same and captured a third 
in the 200 freestyle.
Highscorer of the day for Tech
was Len Lester, with 7 points, 
followed by Andrews with 6. Len 
took seconds in the 200 yard In­
dividual Medley and the 200 yard 
breast stroke, and a third in the 
200 yard backstroke. High scor­
ing honors for Case were split 
among Caesar, Spear, and Rai- 
mey, who all scored 11% points. 
Raimey won the 50 freestyle, the 
100 freestyle, and was in the 
winning freestyle relay. Spear 
won the 200 Individual Medley, 
the 200 butterfly, and was in 
the winning Medley relay. Be­
side his victories in the 200 free­
style and the 500 freestyle, Cae­
sar swam with Raimey in vic-
tories freestyle relay.
The Tartan’s final record for oison,’’
the dual meet season stands at 
3 wins and 7 losses. The last 
meet of the season will be the 
Penn-Ohio Conference Champion­
ship meet at the new Slippery 
Rock pool next Saturday, March 
2. The Tartan’s are rated thir i 
in the five team championship/1
400 yds. Medley Relay CT (Crosby 
Heger, Spear, Alson), 4:25.4; 200 yd,' 
Free Cassar (CT) 2:02.1, Andrews (T) 
Bell (T); 50 yds. Free Raimey (CT) 24.g’ 
Benich (CT), Speyer (T); 200 yds. Ind. 
Medley Spear 2:30.3, Lester (T), Brurw 
son (T); Diving Snow (T)'42.6, Knapp 
(T), Jageler (exhib.); 200 yds. Butterfly 
Spear (CT) 2:30.3, Burdett (T), Wymaa 
(T); 100 yds. Free Raimey (CT) 56.2 
Benich (C), McCloy (T); 200 yd. Back 
Crosby (CT) 2:21.0, French (T), Lester (T); 500 yds. Free Caesar (CT) 5:45.9 
Andrews (T), Hartlep (T); 200 yds!
Breast Heger (C) 2:45.1, Lester (T).
Specht (T); 400 yds. Relay CT (Benf
SHOES SHOES
W ALLY'S
leksGP — We‘0NOd
SHOES
Women
SMART CASUALS
LOAFERS
FLATS
DRESS SHOES
Men
HUSH - PUPPIES 
LOAFERS 
MASSAGIC 
FLORSHEIM
3612 FORBES AVE.U.S. KEDS
(Across from Strand Theater)Get Lucky Play "Crazy Questions”
/0__I_iL. L ‘I____I____t. WTL _ A__N:_l A_"ft
A0 CASH AWARDS A MONTH. ENTER NOW. HERE’S HOW:
First, think of an answer. Any answer. Then come up with 
a nutty, surprising question for it, and you’ve done a 
“Crazy Question." It's the easy new way for students to 
make loot. Study the examples below; then do your own. 
Send them, with your name, address, college and class, 
to GET LUCKY, Box 64F, Mt. Vernon 10, N. Y. Winning 
entries will be awarded $25.00. Winning entries sub­
mitted on the inside of a Lucky Strike wrapper will get a 
$25.00 bonus. Enter as often as you like. Start right now!
»VePOd 0U I*O *nCeNn0GP o00i wF*O gGOPIn0U ;eUcwK
RULES: The Reuben H. Donnelley Corp. will judge entries on the basis of 
humor (up to y3), clarity and freshness (up to y3), and appropriateness (up 
to V3), and their decisions will be final. Ouplicate prizes will be awarded 
in the event of ties. Entries must be the original works of the entrants and 
must be submitted in the entrant's own name. There will be 50 awards 
every month, October through April. Entries received during each month 
will be considered for that month's awards. Any entry received after April 
30, 1963, will not be eligible, and all become the property of The American 
Tobacco Company. Any college student may enter the contest, except em­
ployees of The American Tobacco Company, its advertising agencies and 
Reuben H. Donnelley, and relatives of the said employees. Winners will be 
notified by mail. Contest subject to all federal, state, and local regulations.
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I.
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
IL
THE ANSWER:
I
j THE ANSWER: 
I
| THE ANSWER:PIG IRON i TANIMI
•Ajun aieiS epuoy Maajo aSjoao
¿X>|S am ui jeis 
M^ion am sdaa>| :N0liS3flÖ 3H1I
•Ajun uja^ssMqpoN ‘oue-iN o Aaiueis 
¿3id b ¿o )no S3|>)uum aqi 0} 
asn noÄ pinoM *eijM :N<jlJLS3nÖ 3 Hi
euozuy jo 'A|un ‘uoisuqof Sno<j
¿„jaAajoj saduis,, ajojaq soujod JBMM :N0I1S3DÖ 3H1
THE ANSWER:BlYYdOUbsss
*)su| etUjSjjA 'jaupjeo tí uiiuefuag
¿V|JBIU S}l S3SSIUI
\e\\\ ssM e s\ *bmm :N0llS3hö 3HI
II THE ANSWER: 
I 
I
THE ANSWER:
choo choo 
trains
•A 'N '9391100 **!0 'uejjsio |os
¿ddeqs \2Qj2 ipns ui säbm|b uosvpep 
o°M0 OOM0 S! Aijm :N0liS3nÖ 3H1
e>|sejq3N JO ‘Aiun 'tPHiaia £uaf
¿ujoo The aoud qSiq A||Baj e 
Ileo noX pjnoM leff :'N0liS3flÖ 3Hi
THE ANSWER IS:
I
I
.1
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
-I
GOT LLcky
the taste to start with.. .the taste to slay with
THE QUESTION IS: WHAT IS THE SLOGAN OF THE MOST POPULAR REGULAR- 
SIZE CIGARETTE AMONG COLLEGE STUDENTS? If you missed that one, go to 
the rear of the class. Everyone should know that fine-tobacco taste is the best 
reason to start with Luckies, and that taste is the big reason Lucky smokers 
stay Lucky smokers. Prove it to yourself. Get Lucky today.
<gU- U. c*Product of J&u'uean </v&eco-£onyH*ny — is our middle name
%
»I
