Volume 91, Issue 11Carnegie Mellon University’s Student Newspaper Since 190618 November 1996
Inside
Calendar....Classified...Comics.....Diversions...Living......Forum......Sports......
Features
Be aware of roofies! 
• see page L3
Diversions
CMU fashion turns vintage! 
• see page LI
Volu me91,e9ueI sCarInaa geIein9
Sports
CC ranks 16th 
• see page 12
THE TARTAN
Local church scrutinized 
for practices, recruitment
By TREVOR MEYEROWITZ
Tartan Staffwriter
This past Wednesday, the 
United Campus Ministry (UCM) 
and Hillel, the Jewish University 
Center, held a meeting at the 
First Baptist Church of Pitts­
burgh to discuss the growing pres­
ence of The Greater Pittsburgh 
Church of Christ and concerns 
that the group has cult-like prac­
tices and policies.
“They are the local offshoot of 
the International Church of 
Christ (ICC), 
or the Boston 
Church of 
Christ. They 
are in 70 .to 80 
countries and 
claim to have 
a membership 
of some hun­
dreds of thou­
sands,” said 
Stacey Steck, 
a UCM staff member.
The meeting was open to any­
one, but specifically to students 
from Pitt and CMU, the resident 
assistants from CMU, and stu­
dents from both organizations.
“Their doctrines, what they 
believe, on a basic level, more or 
less falls , under the category 
Christianity.... However it’s their 
methods of presenting it, their 
methods of controllingpeople that 
are suspect. That makes me want 
to call them ... a behavioral cult. 
What’s cultish about them is their 
means and methods and the ef­
fect they have on people,” said 
Steck.
At the beginning of the meet­
ing, a handout was passed out. It 
contained a letter from a former 
member of the ICC, an essay de­
scribing the different definitions 
of cults and their traits, and a 
listing of websites that contained 
more information about the group 
and cults in general.
In addition to sharing informa­
tion, the meeting also focused on 
getting the word out. “One of the 
things we talked about was e- 
mailing all of our students. We 
could also send letters to par­
ents.... We also have discussed 
taking out a full page or half page 
ad saying Watch out.’ We’ve 
talked about making up flyers to
give to the RAs,” said Dawn Lynn 
Check, the interim executive di­
rector of the UCM.
“Usually at the first meeting 
[The Greater Pittsburgh VChurch 
of Christ] solicits at least ten per­
cent of a student’s income, and the 
contacted students don’t know 
where the money is going, or how 
it’s being spent,” said Check.
“They don’t tell you where the 
money is going, [but] I could show 
you my salary and the entire bud­
get of Hillel, if you asked,” said 
Lynne Anapolle, program direc­
tor for Hillel.
“As far as giving money, the 
money we give on Sundays goes 
to poor people.... It’s not about 
what you give, it’s about what’s 
in your heart,” said Renee 
Cardelli, a senior english major
and member of The Greater Pitts­
burgh Church of Christ.
The group has been in Pitts­
burgh for around two years. “They 
sent in a team. When we first 
found out about them it wasn’t 
that big of a deal. What’s making 
[it] a big deal is this new team 
that’s come in is more effective,” 
said Check.
The Carnegie Mellon 
InterFaith Council and the Uni­
versity of Pittsburgh Association 
of Chaplaincies is planning to 
have an information session in 
late January or 
early Febru­
ary, but the 
UCM, a mem­
ber organiza­
tion in both 
groups, de­
cided to hold 
this meeting. 
“In light of re­
cent events, in­
cluding people 
who have come up to me at CMU 
and people I run into, this church 
is being a little more aggressive 
than waiting to January or Feb­
ruary warrants. So we wanted to 
get together and talk about this, 
so that you would be aware of 
these folks if they approach you,” 
said Steck.
“This has been a perennial prob­
lem because people at this time 
in their life are away from home 
for the first time, facing new chal­
lenges.... It’s a very vulnerable 
time for a lot of people,” said Steck.
“This church tends to move into 
urban areas because they have a 
lot of colleges and universities.... 
College students are a main 
source of their adherence,” said 
Steck.
Please see ICC, page 5
"Basically, they don’t care who you 
are or where you come from or any­
thing — they’ll try and get you, ”
— Rick Nowlin, 
Pitt student
Speaker tackles topic of death penalty
BY ANNE RAY
Tartan Staffwriter
When he was six years old, Robert 
Meeropol’s parents, Julius and Ethel 
Rosenberg, were executed in the electric 
chair on the charge of conspiring to “steal 
the secret of the atomic bomb.” Now, 
Meeropol travels around the country 
speaking about his parents, the death 
penalty, and the controversial case of 
Mumia Abu-Jamal, who he calls the 
first political prisoner in this country to. 
face execution since the Rosenbergs.
Last Wednesday, Meeropol visited 
Carnegie Mellon and spoke in McConomy 
Auditorium.
In his speech, Meeropol related the 
story of how his parents were tried and, 
as he asserts, wrongly executed. He told
of how, once he became old enough to 
understand what had occurred, he be­
gan to go through old records of his 
parents’ case. He even showed a photo­
copy of the sketch of the atomic bomb, 
which his parents were then executed 
for possessing and handing over to a 
communist emissary.
“I can’t say I’ve really gotten over 
this,” said Meeropol. “The pain is still 
there. I’m always caught off short by the 
number 6:19 on the clock ... the date of 
my parents’ execution.”
Meeropol is firmly opposed to the death 
penalty and feels that his parents were 
executed without any regard for justice 
by the court system.
“The death sentence in my parents’ 
case had nothing to do with justice and 
everything to do with coercion,” said 
Meeropol. “The 
government said, 
‘We didn’t want the 
Rosenbergs to die, 
we wanted them to 
talk.’ ”
“One of the main 
problems with capi­
tal punishment 
that you can point 
out to people is that 
it requires perfec­
tion.... Sooner or 
later you will ex­
ecute somebody 
who is not guilty 
and most people 
don’t like that.... 
[The system] is ide- 
alized and indi­
vidualized.... It’s 
not just people like 
Jeffrey Dahmer on 
death row. You’ve
got a lot of people not at all like Dahmer. 
You’ve got an imperfect system watched 
over by imperfect people. It’s that real 
idealized capital punishment system 
that we’re dealing with.... I believe the 
death penalty serves no purpose what­
soever.”
Meeropol also found some parallels 
between the movement to save his par­
ents and the movement to save Mumia 
Abu-Jamal. Abu-Jamal, who has been 
on death row since the 1980s, was con­
victed of first-degree murder of Phila­
delphia police officer Daniel Faulkner. 
Although it wasn’t until the early 1990s 
that Meeropol became interested in the 
case, he now whole-heartedly supports 
the nationwide movement to free Abu- 
Jamal, who is also an ex-Black Panther 
and leftist radio journalist.
“[With Abu-Jamal’s case] we see those 
who worked to save my parents have the 
same kind of fear that what happened in 
the 1950s will be repeated in the 1990s,” 
said Meeropol. “Mumia Abu-Jamal 
should not be executed and he should be 
given a new trial.... He too has a family, 
children. It’s important to save Mumia’s 
life so that children will not be orphaned 
like I was. [Killing Abu-Jamal] will not 
make Pennsylvania a safer place, it will 
not heal [Faulkner’s] shattered family, 
and it will shatter Mumia’s family.”
In the 1970s, when Meeropol was at­
tempting to get his parents’ case re­
opened, he appeared on Abu-Jamal’s 
radio talk show. Ironically, at the end of 
the interview, Abu-Jamal asked 
Meeropol the question, “Do you think 
anything like this could ever happen 
again in this country?”
“The memory is vague in my mind,” said 
Meeropol. “It was not something I made 
Please see MEEROPOL, page 3
VIM9nU gvtn9oyuu1,e9ueI geIeirIi ’Mruy9 
Robert Meeropol, the son of Julius and Ethel Rosenberg who 
were executed in 1953, spoke at CMU last Wednesday.
Unhappy with acquittal...
Marchers protest verdict
Cornell Womack holds a sign protesting the verdict reached last 
Wednesday in the Gammage trial.
By BECKY A. COWSER
Tartan News Editor
“Thisisracist-ass Pittsburgh. 
They kill brothers in this city,” 
said Celeta Hickman, a partici­
pant in last Wednesday’s march 
protesting the acquittal of 
Brentwood police officer John 
Vojtas. Vojtas was found “not 
guilty” of killing Jonny 
Gammage by an all-white jury 
from Lackawanna County last 
Wednesday. People gathered in 
front of the city courthouse and 
city-county building to protest 
the verdict and to express their 
unhappiness with the City of 
Pittsburgh for allowing such 
an injustice to take place.
“It’s not a surprise that he 
was acquitted. This is a racist 
legal structure designed to pro­
tect racists. The fear is being 
used to intimidate the op­
pressed people, particularly mi­
norities,” said one protester who 
called himself Brutus. “[Gov­
ernment officials] will beat [the 
oppressed] up, they will jail 
them, and if necessary they will 
kill them. This is what we must 
challenge.”
Gammage died on October 
12, 1995 of asphyxiation due 
to compression of the neck and 
chest after fighting with five 
white police officers who had 
pulled him over in Brentwood, 
a suburb of Pittsburgh. The 
case has received national at­
tention for its similarity to 
the Rodney King case and be­
cause Gammage was the 
cousin of respected Steelers 
football player Ray Seals.
As Wednesday night wore on, 
more people joined the march, 
shouting phrases such as “No
justice, no peace” and “You can 
run, you can hide — this is still a 
homicide.” The protesters blocked 
traffic at one point, holding up 
signs bearing slogans such as 
“Honk your horn for Jonny.” 
While there were police on the 
scene, there was a deliberate 
movement by the protesters to 
keep the march nonviolent.
“I think that the protest will be 
peaceful as long as the police keep 
their hands off of people,” said 
Henry White, the chairman of 
Police Affairs Committee with the 
Coalition of African Americans 
for Justice. “I feel this trial is a 
complete and total mockery of
the judicial system. I had afeel- 
ing [the not guilty verdict] was 
coming after the mistrial, but I 
want to know why a jury wasn’t 
picked from Allegheny County.” 
“I think this verdict sends a 
message toward all young 
black life that resonates 
throughout the entire country,” 
said Cornell Womack, Presi­
dent of the University of Pitts­
burgh Chapter to Free Mumia 
Abu-Jamal. “We hope to send 
a clear message [through this 
protest] that the Pittsburgh 
community is united across ra­
cial and class lines, and we are 
Please see PROTEST, page 5
Pennsylvania officials visit CMU for satellite broadcast
VIM9nU gvtn9oyuu1,e9ueI geIeirIi ’Mruy9 
Governor Tom Ridge and the State Attorney General Tom Corbett attended the 
teleconference held in McConomy Auditorium last Friday morning.
By JENNIFER GARCIA de OSUNA
Tartan Assistant Forum Editor
“Unfortunately, the tide of youth vio­
lence that has swept America’s commu- 
tities in recent years has not spared 
Pennsylvania’s communities. We are 
dismayed by the ... seemingly senseless 
¡rimes committed by young offenders. 
We must continue to work together to 
Wake our communities safe havens 
where ... our children can learn, grow, 
prosper,” said Governor Tom Ridge 
concerning his new program, Commu- 
% Partnership for Safe Children.
Last Friday, CMU hosted a satellite 
^oadcast, “Building Hope in Our Com­
munities,” which aired in the McConomy 
Auditorium. Along with several guest 
peakers, Governor Ridge and First Lady 
Michele Ridge spoke of their latest at- 
3ck on juvenile crime in Pennsylvania, 
he program, Community Partnership
for Safe Children, is chaired by Mrs. 
Ridge and combines the efforts of com­
munity members and leaders to iden­
tify the risks posed to America’s youth 
and to work to help them.
According to Pittsburgh Magazine, 
there has been a 40 percent increase in 
youth crime, a 94 percent increase in 
aggravated assault by white youths, 
and a 83 percent increase in female 
youth arrests. According to the broad­
cast on Friday, 18.7 percent of all high 
school students smoke marijuana and 
25 percent drink alcohol.
In response to such high statistics of 
crimes committed by youths, programs 
such as Community Partnership for 
Safe Children have been started.
Some of the initiatives this program 
has supported are Family Support Cen­
ters, Youth Places, and Communities 
that Care.
Please see COMMUNITY, page 4

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 18 November 1996
• ••
Clinton makes drastic 
change in Bosnia policy
WASHINGTON, Nov. 15 (AP) — In 
an about-face on Bosnia, President 
Clinton said Friday the United States 
will keep thousands of troops there 
until June 1998 in hopes that “the 
habits of peace can take hold” in the 
ethnically divided country.
The U.S. peacekeeping commitment 
in Bosnia was originally to end next 
month. Some 8,500 troops are to take 
part in the extended mission.
Clinton also said he was ready to 
dispatch American troops to Zaire as 
part of a Canadian-led humanitarian 
mission to ease central Africa’s refu­
gee crisis. About 4,000 U.S. troops are 
expected to be part of the multina­
tional rescue effort.
“Where we can make a difference, 
we must act and we must lead,” Clinton 
told a White House news conference 
before leaving on a 12-day trip to Ha­
waii, Australia, and Asia. He arrived 
in Hawaii Friday night.
Criticism from congressional Re­
publicans was immediate but rela­
tively mild. Sen. Dan Coats of Indi­
ana, for example, accused Clinton of 
carrying out a “seat-of-the-pants, re­
active foreign policy” that risks U.S. 
troops for ill-defined goals. But he 
also said lawmakers probably would 
not oppose the decision.
In Sarajevo, Bosnian President Alija 
Izetbegovic said in a state television 
interview it was “expected and good” 
that U.S. troops would stay longer.
“With time, the habits of peace can 
take hold,” Clinton said, but progress 
achieved over the past year would be 
jeopardized if U.S. troops left now. 
From a peak of about 20,000 U.S. 
troops, there are now about 14,000 
in Bosnia.
The President addressed the Zaire 
mission at the same time.
‘The world’s most powerful nation 
must not turn its back on so many 
desperate people and so many inno­
cent children who are now at risk from 
ethnic violence and disease,” Clinton 
said, adding that he had not yet given 
a final go-ahead.
The troops would help food and medi­
cine reach the one million refugees in 
eastern Zaire, mostly Hutus from 
Rwanda and Burundi. The operation 
would last until March 31.
Anticipating Clinton’s go-ahead, the 
Pentagon sent transport aircraft to 
Europe during the day to prepare to 
build an “air bridge” for relief supplies 
to Zaire.
Clinton does not need congressional 
approval of his decision, but Congress 
would have to eventually approve the 
mission’s funding.
A year ago, Clinton had said the 
peacekeeping troops should withdraw 
after a year regardless of whether war 
or peace followed.
“If we leave after a year, and they 
decide they don’t like the benefits of 
peace and they’re going to start fight­
ing again, that does not mean NATO 
failed. It means we gave them a chance 
to make their peace and they blew it,” 
Clinton said at the time.
“Quite frankly, rebuilding the fabric 
of Bosnia’s economic and political life 
is taking longer than anticipated,” 
Clinton said.
At the Pentagon, Defense Secretary 
William Perry was more blunt, saying 
he had erred in advising Clinton that 
one year would be enough to finish the 
job. “It was my error in judgment,” 
Perry said.
Ecuador proposes extreme tobacco and alcohol tax
QUITO, Ecuador Nov. 15 (AP) — 
Ecuador’s president says he has or­
dered a 1,000 percent tax on liquor 
and cigarettes in an effort to stamp out 
“boozing and smoking.”
If President Abdala Bucaram’s 
draconian move were to stand, whisky 
drinkers might pay up to $300 for 
their next bottle of Scotch, up from 
about $10-30 now.
But it was not immediately clear 
whether the tax would take effect. 
Government officials already were 
backing off the measure Friday, say­
ing it needed further study.
“Drink is harmful,” Bucaram said. 
“Boozing and smoking lead to noth­
ing.” Bucaram does not drink or smoke.
“I’ve ordered a 1,000 percent tax on 
liquors and a 1,000 percent tax on ciga­
rettes so that it will cost 1 million sucres 
($300) for anyone wanting to drink a 
bottle of whisky,” Bucaram said.
The current tax on liquor and ciga­
rettes is five percent. It is unclear how 
the new tax would be implemented.
Former President Rodrigo Boija said 
Friday the huge tax would only provoke 
a black market for the two products and 
said Congress needs to approve before 
such a tariff goes into effect.
Bucaram, who took office Aug. 10, has 
made several controversial moves in his 
first three months in office, and has 
insulted his political opponents, includ­
ing calling Congress a “bunch of bums.”
Fighter contest narrows to two
WASHINGTON, Nov. 15 (AP) — 
Lockheed Martin Corp. andBoeingCo. were 
chosen as finalists Saturday in the contest 
for a U.S. Defense Department fighter con­
tract potentially worth $219 billion.
The Pentagon narrowed the field from 
three to two, cutting out McDonnell 
Douglas Corp. and leaving the remain­
ing contracting giants to develop and 
build a prototype of their designs before 
a final decision in 1999. Also at stake are 
tens of thousands of future jobs.
“Compared to current airplanes, (the 
joint strike fighter) brings a more le­
thal package into the theater ... and 
does so with fewer supporting assets 
and therefore less costs,” Defense Sec­
retary William Perry said.
The Pentagon plans to buy 2,978joint 
strike fighters between 2005 and 2030, 
two-thirds of them for the Air Force. The 
Congressional Budget Office estimates 
the cost at $219 billion.
Despite the daunting price tag, the 
Pentagon hopes that by building a plane 
for several services and buying them in 
quantity, it can hold down the per-plane 
price. The budget office estimates the 
cost at $63 million to $81 million each, 
depending on each service’s needs.
The Air Force’s F-22, under develop­
ment, is estimated at $108 million each.
For the money, the military will get a 
single-engine fighter that can fly faster 
than the speed of sound, evade enemy 
radar, slam down on the deck of a car­
rier, or, in the case of the Marine vari­
ant, perform a vertical landing like a 
helicopter. The planes will replace the 
Air Force F-16 and A-10, Marine Corps 
AV-8B and the Navy FA-18C and D, 
among other planes. Britain’s Royal 
Navy also will buy the plane.
Critics have questioned whether there 
is any threat that the costly program 
must meet. By 2005, the United States 
will have more than 3,000 fighters with 
the latest technology, more than the 
combined inventories of Russia, China, 
North Korea, Iran, and Iraq.
Sexual allegations hit the Air Force
SAN ANTONIO, Nov. 15 (AP)—Eight 
instructors have been disciplined for 
sexually harassing or having relation­
ships with female trainees in the last 
three years at Lackland Air Force Base.
The revelations were the first involv­
ing the Air Force since the Army recently 
disclosed allegations of sexual harass­
ment at a training base in Maryland.
Since 1994, military officials said, 12 
female trainees have filed complaints 
alleging sexual harassment or miscon­
duct involving male instructors at 
Lackland, the Air Force’s only basic train­
ing facility.
Eight resulted in charges being filed. 
The other allegations were unsubstanti­
ated, said Brig. Gen. Robert Courter Jr.
“We recognize sexual harassment as a 
problem, and we have programs in place 
to address it,” Courter said.
Air Force training instructors, like drill 
instructors in other military branches, 
are prohibited from dating or engagingin 
sexual relationships with trainees.
This year, a staff sergeant was found 
guilty of engagingin a concensual sexual 
relationship with a trainee. He was 
reduced in rank to airman first class 
and discharged.
Other instructors either were fined or 
reduced in rank. All have been relieved 
of instructor duties, Courter said. 
Lackland trains more than 75,000 re­
cruits a year.
Military training bases have come 
under scrutiny since the Army revealed 
that two drill instructors and a captain 
were charged with rape or other sexual 
offenses against women trainees in Ab­
erdeen, Md.Clinton relaxes encryption policy
WASHINGTON, Nov. 15 (AP)—Presi­
dent Clinton signed an executive order 
Friday liberalizing U.S. export policy to 
allow companies to sell more powerful 
encryption devices abroad.
But companies first would have to 
assure the U.S. government that law 
enforcers — acting on court orders — 
would be able to crack the code and 
intercept the communications.
“These two actions will help promote 
the growth of international electronic 
commerce and robust secure global com­
munications in a manner that protects 
the public safety and our national secu­
rity,” said Vice President A1 Gore, who 
has been the administration’s point man 
on the encryption issue.
At issue is sophisticated software that 
allows users to scramble telephone and 
computer messages that move across com­
puter networks and the Internet. Users, 
particularly businesses, want to keep 
their data private with few or no restric­
tions, while law enforcement officials have 
argued that they need the power to un­
scramble the messages to investigate ter­
rorists and other criminals.
Law enforcers want access to an elec­
tronic “key” to unlock secure communi­
cations in the event of a national secu­
rity or law enforcement emergency. Cur­
rent policy permits companies to export 
encryption devices with electronic key 
lengths of up to 40 bits.
The new plan would allow companies 
to export devices with a harder-to-crack 
length of 56 bits, as long as they have a 
plan for law enforcement to unlock se­
cured communications.Westinghouse split will mean job loss
PITTSBURGH, Nov. 14 (AP) — 
Westinghouse Electric Corp. is split­
ting in two — separating its growing 
broadcast empire from its shrinking 
industrial base in a move that will
eliminate 1,100 jobs.
Although the move had been anticj. 
pated, the news Wednesday still had the 
power to electrify. Investors quickly be­
gan to speculate whether the new broad­
cast company, which includes CBS, will 
be a takeover target when it becomes 
independent next summer.
The media company, which is search­
ing for a name, will be based in New 
York. The industrial company, to re­
main in Pittsburgh, will be called 
Westinghouse Electric Co.
Westinghouse has grown into a media 
company with 16 TV stations reaching 
one-third of the nation and 77 radio 
stations in 13 markets.
The company expects that as a broad­
cast business, Westinghouse will be able 
to increase profits faster than if it held 
onto its industrial half, which includes 
nuclear power generators and refriger­
ated trucks. While Westinghouse may 
be remembered as a manufacturer of 
appliances, it sold that business more 
than 20 years ago.
The $4.2 billion broadcasting company 
will consist of CBS Inc., the largest tele­
vision and radio broadcaster; Group W 
Satellite Communications Company, a 
leading cable television marketing com­
pany, and Infinity Broadcasting, when 
that acquisition is completed.
The $4.6 billion industrial business 
will focus on electric power generators, 
including the world’s largest nuclear- 
power business, and its Thermo King 
mobile refrigeration line. It plans to sell 
20 percent of the stock of Thermo King, 
based in Bloomington, Minn., leaving 
that business a subsidiary of 
Westinghouse Electric.
Completion of the spin-off is subject to 
receipt of an Internal Revenue Service 
ruling that the transaction is tax-free. 
The sale of stock in Thermo King is 
expected before the businesses are split.Charges filed for Pitt porn storage
PITTSBURGH, Nov. 13 (AP)—ATexas 
man faces up to five years in prison and 
a $250,000 fine if convicted on charges 
that he stored child pornography images 
in a University of Pittsburgh computer 
system. Matthew Leachman, 25, is ac­
cused of stealing a Pitt student’s com­
puter access code and using it to access 
and store the illegal images in his file 
while living in Imperial.
An FBI investigation led agents to 
Leachman’s home in Houstonwhere they 
found thousands of pictures of young 
boys, U.S. Attorney Shaun Sweeney said. 
Opening arguments began Wednesday 
before U.S. District Judge Robert 
Cindrich in Pittsburgh.
Storing and sending the photos across 
interstate telephone lines via the 
Internet qualifies the act as a federal 
crime, Sweeney said.
Leachman didn’t possess the images 
because they were stored in computer 
files that were not his, said his attorney, 
W. Penn Hackney.
Tuesday
i / Scattered showers. 
Hi 52 Lo 35
Wednesday
Partly cloudy. 
HI 46 Lo 43
ThursdayPartly Cloudy. 
Hi 38 Lo 33
Friday
Mostly cloudy. 
HI 39 Lo 28
CamegieASmaiiac
From National Weather Service bulletins and other sources
50 YEARS AGO, Jan. 7,1947: 
A discussion of campus issues 
was held by administrators. Dis­
missal of classes during Spring 
Carnival, extending the Satur­
day night closing hour, and low­
ering prices at Skibo were the 
main issues.
The discussion was held dur­
ing a dinner meeting of the Stu­
dent Conference committee.
The proposition to lengthen the 
Spring Carnival weekend was the 
topic, and Dr. Doherty led the 
discussion. A concern was raised 
that only a slight majority of stu­
dents favored giving up a day 
during Easter weekend in ex­
change for an extended weekend 
during Spring Carnival.
The increase of prices at Skibo 
was another topic brought up at 
the round table. According to the 
original plan, students were to 
clear their tables and carry their 
their own dishes. After failing to 
do this, additional help was hired 
to perform the job. To pay the 
needed help, food prices had to 
be raised.
25 YEARS AGO, Dec. 2,1971: 
A strike of University employees
was averted when a three year 
contract was approved by a vote 
of 105-23. Agreements approved 
in the contract were equal pay for 
female employees, $50 per week 
sick pay, and the same pension 
befits for food service employees 
as other campus employees.
As of Dec. 1, 1971, workers 
would get a $.35 an hour increase 
for the first year, $.25 an hour in 
addition the second j^ear, and $.20 
more in addition the third year.
In addition, it was also pointed 
out that since CMU workers had 
up to then earned less than their 
counterparts at some of the other 
Pittsburgh colleges. It was ex­
pected that the Board would ap­
prove the increase.
TEN YEARS AGO, Nov. 25, 
1986: A contest was announced 
to six major architectural firms 
to design the University Center. 
Patrick Keating, Director of Uni­
versity Planning, explained why 
a contest was chosen as opposed 
to simply hiring one contractor.
“If we want to design excel­
lence, one way to try to achieve 
that is to have architects com­
pete by doing preliminary designs
of this facility.”
Materials from over 40 firms 
were reviewed before the final six 
firms were selected.
The firms were given four 
months to submit their designs 
and received between $40,000 and 
$50,000 for them. The competi­
tion was to be judged by a jury of 
three or four CMU administra­
tors and three or four people from 
outside the CMU community.
FIVE YEARS AGO, Nov. 11, 
1991: Carnegie Mellon Univer­
sity Student Senate adopted a 
resolution against ROTC’s policy 
of discrimination on the basis of 
sexual orientation.
The resolution ultimately 
stated that if ROTC did not end 
its discrimination policy, the 
University would rid the cam­
pus of all ROTC programs by the 
1995-1996 academic year. The 
deadline was adopted in order to 
give current CMU students a 
chance to graduate under exist­
ing policies.
Other prominent schools have 
already created similar policies. 
Harvard and Yale have refused to 
reinstate ROTC programs and
MIT plans to remove ROTC by 
1998if there is not change in policy.
ONE YEAR AGO, Nov. 20, 
1995: CMU’s Committee on 
Sexual Harassment Policy and 
Procedure pressed ahead with 
plans to implement a revised 
sexual harassment policy, despite 
criticism about the policy’s appli­
cation and purpose.
The University’s policy on 
sexual harassment became un­
der review since University Presi­
dent Robert Mehrabian released 
a new policy in September of1994.
The review came after the ques­
tions were raised about the policy’s 
legality and the ambiguity of the 
language it was written in.
Opposition to the proposed 
policy came from several sources. 
A few CMU students were vocal 
in protest, but in particular, the 
National Writers Union, a na­
tional labor union representing 
freelance writers, has stated that 
it finds the policy to be prohibi­
tive of free speech.
Compiled by 
EARL CRANE & 
CHRIS CANNON

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 18 November 19963
CIVIU hosts social activist
miuicrr miivoiiiiuu/ i at idi I managing Callal
Robert Meeropol spoke Wednesday night at the McConomy auditorium, and then 
gave a presentation to a class on Thursday morning.
MEEROPOL, from page 1
an effort to remember when I did it, be­
cause it was a routine thing. Here I was, 
involved in a national effort to re-open my 
parents’ case, speaking in as many radio 
stations as I could. They tended to be 
cluttered, ramshackle rooms with falling- 
apart equipment. I didn’t even make a 
particular note of it at the time.” 
Meeropol is also the Executive Direc­
tor of the Rosenberg Fund for Children,
"The death sentence in my par­
ents’ case had nothing to do 
with justice and everything to 
do with coercion. ”
— Robert Meeropol
which works to provide for the children 
of those who have been killed or tor­
tured. For example, the Rosenberg Fund 
for Children (RFC) awarded grants to 
the children of a woman shot by the Ku 
Klux Klan so that they could attend a 
summer camp, and to the son of a death 
row inmate for college supplies.
Including Carnegie Mellon, Meeropol 
has spoken at 16 colleges and universi-
Cbdmeandlncidentlteport
ties this year. He says that there has 
been a higher demand for the topic of 
the death penalty on college campuses. 
“When I speak and the topic is my 
parents’ case, I get about 100 people,” 
said Meeropol. “When the topic is capi­
tal punishment, I get 200 people.” 
Meeropol stressed the importance 
of speaking on college campuses, say­
ing that he and the students he speaks 
to both get a great deal out of the
__________________ experience.
“Forme, being 
able to present 
this material to 
people who have 
never heard it 
before and to 
hopefully in­
volve some of 
these people in 
the... issues that 
I’m discussing 
means that they’ll carry forward the 
... things that I’m doing.
“The ... thing that I think students 
get from this... that is almost hard for 
me to deal with in a personal way, is 
that I’m a piece of history. [My par­
ents’ case] is an event that’s almost 
ancient history for students ... how 
often do you get the opportunity to 
stare history in the face?”
Management team wins second
By JAYA SAXENA
Tartan Staffwriter
Last weekend, a CMU team of four 
students claimed second place in the 
North American Undergraduate Chal­
lenge, a prestigious management con­
sulting case competition. This evént was 
co-sponsored by the Undergraduate 
Management Consulting Association at 
the University of Texas at Austin (UTA) 
College of Business Administration and 
McKinsey and Company, Inc., one of the 
nation’s leading consulting firms.
Dominick Frollini, Patricia Yang, 
Alan Linton, and Everett Neal, were 
the four students chosen to participate 
in this competition. They were selected 
by David Lamont, adjunct professor of 
Industrial Administration, after a 
screening process involving 25 percent 
of the students in his Business Leader­
ship and Strategy class. These selected 
students participated in a workshop 
with three volunteers from the Vir­
ginia-based strategic management con­
sulting firm Dean & Company and ulti­
mately, four out of 15 students were 
chosen to be on the team.
This four-day competition centered 
around working on a business proposi­
tion by preparing and presenting a rec­
ommended solution to the board of di­
rectors of McKinsey Company. Twelve 
schools from around the world includ­
ing Canada and Mexico competed in the 
event. Each team was made up of four 
people.
This year, the problem dealt with a 
merger and acquisition scenario between 
Quaker Oats Company and Phillip 
Morris. Each team was required to pre­
pare a recommendation for Quaker based 
on their analysis of the situation.
According to Neal, a senior majoring 
in IM and chemistry, the process for 
solving this problem involved three main 
steps. First, the students had to deter­
mine if the question being asked was the 
correct question. “One tendency compa­
nies have is to focus on the superficial
problems, however, the underlying prob­
lems need to be addressed in order to 
fully resolve the situation,” said Neal. 
Secondly, it was necessary to research 
the key information, which they were 
able to do using thè Internet and the 
extensive library system at the univer­
sity. The final step involved preparing a 
25-minute presentation of the material 
for the panel of judges, comprised of 
current employees of McKinsey Com­
pany and three members of the Austin 
community.
Some of the ways that the students 
prepared for this event were by at­
tending Lamont’s class, participating 
in a similar competition held in Sep­
tember sponsored by Dean and Com­
pany, and studying two cases used in 
previous competitions.
Frollini, a senior IM and Economics 
major, said, “I think there were several 
factors that contributed to our success. 
First was our ability to work as a team... 
second was the preparation we received 
in our Business Leadership and Strat­
egy class, [and] third was the fact that 
we spent a good deal of time preparing 
before leaving for Texas.”
Neal said, “The complementary 
strengths that different team members 
had was a major contributor to our over­
all success.... This allowed us the breadth 
of scope needed to prepare a strong analy­
sis of the problem.”
Yang, a senior IM major, summed up 
the team’s success by stating, “A solid 
academic background, personal drive, 
and an outstanding team contributed to 
our success in this competition.... Pro­
fessor Lamont taught us the knowledge 
behind concepts, forced us to analyze 
and solve problems on our own, and gave 
us the opportunity to compete at this 
high level.”
The extensive preparation the group 
underwent for this competition led to their 
second place tie with the University of 
Western Ontario. First place was awarded 
to the University of Pennsylvania. 
Lamont said that although the ben­
efits of this accomplishment are not tan­
gible, they are enormous. Linton, a sè­
nior IM and Economics major said, 
believe every student associated wit>h 
the competition won in that they wer^ 
exposed to a variety of ideas and scho­
lastic cultures.”
“Carnegie Mellon did very, very well*. 
Our team was matched up against th£ 
best students from the best schools an<j 
that says a lot about the program an$ 
the students. The quality was very high! 
and I am not sure if I could have don£ 
much better myself,” Lamont said.
Overall, team members also believè 
participation in this event led to perv 
sonai growth and development. “Thi{5 
competition provided me with an in­
sight into the world of consulting thaj; 
could not have been gained without 
actually being a consultant,” sai<J 
Neal. Frollini said, “I gained a ne\y 
appreciation for teamwork. I really 
enjoyed meeting people from across 
the continent.... This competition pro;- 
vided me with the chance to partici­
pate in work very similar to that done 
by ‘real-world’ consultants.”
The North American Undergraduate 
Challenge is open to schools from around 
the country. Lamont said there were tw(j> 
main reasons CMU chose to participate^ 
“It is important to test how well youy 
product does against other people’s prodj- 
ucts to prove the quality of our underj- 
graduate education, and it is important 
to invest in undergraduate education 
like this,” he said. “If we take proper 
advantage of these types of opportuniv 
ties, we can improve employer traffic 
and the perception of the business com}- 
munity towards our school,” he added.;
The Undergraduate Management 
Consulting Association, a student-ru$ 
organization at the University of Texa$ 
at Austin, was created about three year$ 
ago and hosts this competition eachyeai^. 
“They are an excellent host. The entir£ 
event is done by students. They pay* 
organize, and run the program,” saifl 
Lamont.
............... ,ted from the printed reports 
Ethnic descriptions and othe\ 
personal details are given only 
in the context of complete de* 
scriptions.
• Not every incident that occurs 
on campus appears in the reportj
Compiled B; 
CHRIS ByTTRE
11/11 THEFT2:31 pm. A pro­
fessor went to Baker Hall 245 to 
work and noticed that the laser 
printer in the hallway was miss­
ing. The printer cord was severed 
and another cord was found un­
plugged. A small padlock on both 
cords was still intact.
The professor stated that the 
printer is valued at $2,038 and 
that if connected on campus, it 
can be traced through ethemet.
11/12 VEHICLE DAMAGES,
11:33 am, 12:11 pm, 12:17 pm. 
Three victims drove their vehicles 
through Area #9 (the Cyert/ 
Warner parking lot). Each victim 
stated that their vehicle was dam­
aged when the gate arm came 
down on it.
11/12 DISORDERLY CON­
DUCT, 6:54 pm. An officer took 
a report from Computing Ser­
vices regarding a CMU student 
who forcefully pushed a chair 
out of Wean 5205, which struck 
the wall to 5206, and made a 
large hole.
The student zephyred the com­
puter consultant on duty, con­
fessing to the crime.
Campus Police made sure that 
the student knew they were li­
able for damages. It is believed 
that the guilty party acted out of 
frustration from not being able to 
find an available computer.
11/13 POSSESSION OF B.B. 
GUN, 9:43 pm. An officer was 
dispatched to,,^ fraternity for a 
person with a B.B. gun. The of­
ficer identified two people who 
admitted to using the weapons. 
The guns were confiscated and 
the actors were issued internal 
citations.
11/13 MEDICAL, 11:46 pm. 
An officer was dispatched to Hunt 
library to assist a person who 
was having an allergic reaction. 
The officer took a statement from 
the individual. In it, the victim 
stated eating at Highlander Caf­
eteria. Later, when arriving at 
the library, the victim noticed a 
break-out of hives.
The EMS call was canceled and 
the officer provided transportation 
to Presbyterian Hospital.
11/16 MEDIC AL£ :48 pm. The 
victim walked into the Campus 
Police Communications Center
asking for help. A large staple 
was lodged in the base of the 
palm. CMU EMS responded and 
the victim was taken to Presbyte­
rian Hospital.
11/16 THEFT,7:23 pm. While 
on routine patrol of the fraterni­
ties, two officers observed two 
males coming from the Univer­
sity Center carrying a large rug. 
The actors were identified and 
stopped for questioning. After 
noticing their blurry eyes, stag­
gering gait, and a strong smell of 
alcohol coming from both, offic­
ers issued them state citations.
Several minutes later, they 
admitted taking the rug from the 
University Center. They were is­
sued CMU internal citations for 
theft and receiving stolen prop­
erty and one actor was given an­
other citation for failure to com­
ply with a University Official.
11/17 CRIMINAL MIS­
CHIEF, 2:44 am. A complaint 
was made to an officer about an 
incident that occured. While sit­
ting in a room on the third floor of 
Donner Hall, an unknown per­
son flung what seemed to be a 
potato into the window.
No one was injured.
• Chief of Campus Police
James LaPaglia reviews all re­
ports prior to release.
• Only three people on The 
Tartan staff see the reports: the 
Editor-in-Chief, the News Edi­
tor, and the staffwriter typing 
the report.
• All personal names of com­
plainants, victims, suspects, 
and fraternity names are omit-
Corrections/Clarifications...
In last week’s issue, the photo caption for the story, “Students, administrators discuss issues of 
sexual assault at CMU” incorrectly identified Chief of Campus Police, James LaPaglia as “some 
coolio.”
Also in last week’s issue, a photo caption that ran with the story “Vocalists showcase talents of 
non-majors,” incorrectly identified Selected Hilarity as The Originals. Furthermore, Common 
Ground performed at Spring Carnival, not The Originals.
In addittion, the Person’s Opinion section of last week’s paper, the Scotty Dog was quoted as 
saying, “I think he’s probably enjoying his freedom. He may be playing football or eating sausage 
out of the trash can.” The Tartan retracts this quote.
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of such an error, please contact Tartan 
Editor-in-Chief Kenneth J. Kraemer at 268-2111.
San Francisco $177 Frankfurt S219Paris $229Athens $299Istanbul $319Tel Aviv $389Cairo $479w. Uch wwr no* PimwCH lAsa cn a icucap won«, fw co not rota wow was c* ffO tovufc S3 wo $60. cauac on ksmuon o> urnnn ot«*s wo wtcitr ro Tart GOkW**/m.
Call for a FREE 
Student Travels Magazine!
een dr.sif omrc 
DlvvLgasFuS Do epteT 
HEetA RnTNenne
Voolume9o1o,I sCaaI,rneorg 1ai VoCM
TOYOTA'S REMARKABLE RAV4
"... The RAV4, Which Corners Better, Rides More Smoothly And Feels 
More Nimble Than Any SUV Made." -AutoWeek, June '96 
"The RAM Is A Fun-Junkie's Dream Machine." -Car Anil Driver, April '96
"Toyota's New RAV4 Seems To Bridge The Cast Casm Between Car And Truck. This 
Little Wagon With Big Wheels Is A Car And A Truck.” -Car And Driver, April'% 
"Rally-Car Performance, Camry-Like Quality" -Car And Driver, July '96
There's More. Your RAV4 Can Be A 2-Door Or 4-Door, A Front-Wheel 
Drive Or A 4-Wheel Drive, On-Road Or Off-Road With Room For Up 
To 5 And Cargo, Too.
TOYOTA RAV4 ... IT'S OUT THERE AT YOUR
I love what you do for meTOYOTA DEALER NOW! Simply^M

---------------------------------------------------

4The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 18 November 1996
Write-ins take advantage of low election turnout
By CHRIS CANNON
Tartan Assistant News Editor
r About 6.5 percent of Carnegie Mellon 
Univerity’s students voted in last week’s 
mil elections of Student Senate, the or­
ganizations that allocates how over 
$500,000 of students’ money is spent. 
Senate Chair, grad-student Catherine 
Senderling, was pleased with the re­
sults but said, “We would have liked 
more [voters].”
' “We had some really helpful people 
with our PR,” Senderling said. She com­
mented that the elections were, “Rela­
tively well publicized,” for a new group. 
' “There were some snafus,” said Dan 
Tilkin of Alpha Phi Omega, which su­
pervises the voting process. For instance, 
posters were put up at the last minute.
“We were trying to re-write elections 
laws, so it was hard to figure out when 
elections would be,” said Senate Public 
Relations Chair Matthew Bembenick. 
As a result, the committee was late in 
making preparations. However, he too 
was satisfied with the turnout.
“It seems as though it went better 
[than in previous years],” the junior So­
cial and Decision Sciences major said. “I 
think people like having the opportuniy 
to vote in different places.”
“We determined that in front of 
Doherty was the best place for [the elec­
tions],” Tilkin said. Senderling seemed 
to agree.
* “The one thing that surprises me is 
that... it’s clear that a lot more people 
voted in front of Doherty than in the 
UC,” the Senate Chair said.
Approximately 208 students voted in 
front of Doherty on Wednesday, while 
half as many, about 101 votes, were cast 
Thursday at Kirr Commons in the UC. 
f Seven write-ins were elected, includ­
ing a four-way tie for one CFA slot. 
Senate will vote on the winner at it’s 
meeting today.
" “There’re always going to be write-ins 
Efelected],” said Senderling and added, “I
didn’t see any votes for Mickey Mouse, 
which is good.”
The Disney character has been a popu­
lar candidate in the past. Senderling 
said that write-ins aren’t necessarily 
bad, but she prefered for candiates to 
use petitions to get on the ballot.
In particular, Senderling was able to 
influence grad-student Dan Edwards 
into running as a write-in for the extra 
seat Heinz received in Senate.
“I’ve been trying to recruit in GSIA,” 
she said. “I’m disappointed that there 
weren’t more graduate students [run­
ning].”
Although the turnout may be regarded 
as a bit low, with approximately 470 
votes being cast, the organizers were 
pleased with the results. The effort was a 
success, especially when compared to last 
spring’s elections, held during Carnival.
Bembenick deferred much of the credit 
to Senderling, Senator Mike Szudarek, 
and Student Body President Bryon Krug.
“They helped me out a lot,” Bembenick 
said.
“[It was] a real team effort,” said 
Senderling.
Senators elected last week: [write- 
in winners are denoted by an astrisk]
CFA: Vincent Noth*, Barry Langer*, 
Joe Upton*, Arik Luck*, [only one seat 
available, Senate will vote on the four­
way tie]
CIT: Eryca Lipshutz, Lawrence 
McCartin, Van Butler, Norman Ng, 
Eamon Kelleher.
Heinz: Catherine Senderling, Dan 
Edwards*.
H&SS: Kashif Raza, William Guzy, 
Scott Goodrich*.
MCS: Will Toraason, Andrew 
Stovall*.
SIA: Chris Hong, Geoffrey Go*, Ken 
Kwalik*.
SCS: Michael Rosenthal, Deanna 
Rubin*.
Misc: Ira Fay.
CMU hosts mock trial competition
By MEENA VAGNIER
Tartan Staffwriter
The First Annual Thomas 
M. Kerr Undergraduate In­
vitational Mock Tourna­
ment, hosted by CMU, took 
place in the University Cen­
ter this past Saturday. Col­
leen O’Brien, an attorney 
from Washington D.C., said 
that she “thought it would 
be a lot of public speaking,
[but] instead [the partici­
pants] were very technical.
The quality of the competi­
tion, participants, and 
coaches was top notch and a 
reflection on the schools.”
The competition consists of 
each team presenting a dif­
ferent argument of a case for 
three rounds. The teams go 
into the tournament not 
knowing whether they will be the 
prosecution or defense for the case, 
so they must be equally prepared to 
do both.
The four teams in the tournament 
were Allegheny College, Chatham 
College, Indiana University of Penn­
sylvania (IUP), and CMU, which 
had two separate teams competing.
The CMU teams were made up of a 
diversity of students from the under­
graduate population andsome were 
also a part of the H&SS Pre-Law 
Advisory program headed by Jay 
Devine.
The teams were judged not by who 
won the most trials, but rather by 
specific ability such as demeanor 
and ability to respond in a given 
situation. Awards were given on a 
team performance basis and also an 
individual basis.
CMU’s second team won first place 
in overall team category. In the in­
dividual performance category, 
third place in the best witness cat­
egory went to CMU’s Jessica
Tony Chao/ ,e9ueI Sdyuy Nueww geIein9 
Students compete in the first Thomas M. Kerr Mock Trial Invitational.
Chappell, a freshman undeclared 
H&SS student.
Cindi Vuong, a freshman undeclared 
H&SS student, said, “[The competition] 
ran very smooth.... It was a great learn­
ing experience.”
One of the judges of the competition, 
Bob Eberle, said that the competition 
was “outstanding [and that] the quality
sides of the issue.” She added that 
while “it may be hard for them, no 
matter what their feelings are, if 
they are the defendants’ lawyer, they 
have a responsibility.”
This was reflected also in the stu­
dents’ views. Vuong said that the 
case she had to argue "‘[allowed] you 
to look at both sides. It [taught] you
of the presentations spoke very highly of that there are more variables to take
the participants.”
Another competitor, Ed Roberson, a 
sophomore history major at Allegheny, 
agreed with Vung that “it was a good 
and positive experience.”
The coach from IUP, David Serene, 
indicated that it was “encouraging to 
see young kids so talented and in­
spired ... some of these kids will make 
great lawyers.”
The topic for this year’s tournament 
was a fictional case on police brutality. 
However, according to Mary-Jo Miller, 
an attorney and coach for the CMU 
teams, this “only made it more inter­
esting for [the participants] ... a case 
like this forces them to look at both
into account.”
This annual competition serves as 
a warm-up for the mock trials held 
in February by the American Mock 
Trial Association, according to 
Miller.
The competition is named in honor 
of Thomas M. Kerr, who is currently a 
GSIA professor and who was previ­
ously the Pre-Law Advisor for H&SS.
According to Miller, Kerr is very 
well known. He has also contributed 
greatly to the law community in Pitts­
burgh. “Kerr was one of the founding 
members for the American Civil Lib­
erties Union (ACLU) chapter in Pitts­
burgh,” she said.
Community program presented at CfVIU
QOMMUNITY, from page 1
! At Family Support, parents and 
their children are encouraged to 
join support groups to help and 
inotivate each other toward posi­
tive change. There, mothers can 
learn to read, earn their GED, 
learn to cook nutrient-rich foods 
j>ut of affordable groceries, and 
form a support network at the 
feame time. Similarly, there is a 
fathers’ support group to help fa­
thers realize how crucial their 
roles are in the family.
! “You get a lot of publicity com- 
fnenting that this is a house with 
ho father in it, and as a result, 
these are the negative things that 
tome out of it. But very seldom is 
it identified what the positive 
things are that fathers contrib-
ute,” said Phil Washington, a con­
sultant who specializes in issues 
affecting men and fathers.
One success story of Family 
Support is that of a young mother 
of three who, before going to a 
nearby Family Support Center, 
rarely left her house. In two years, 
she enrolled in Job Corps, got her 
GED and completed a nursing 
program, found a job, and was 
able to buy a car.
Another group involved in the 
Governor’s Community Partner­
ship for Safe Children is Youth 
Places, which serves as a haven 
for young children to go instead 
of the streets. The program offers 
sports, tutoring, mentoring, rec­
reational activities such as pool, 
and a place for youths to go and
hang out without the risk of run­
ning into danger.
Another program, Communities 
that Care, involves a proj ect where 
key leaders in the community es­
tablish a crime prevention task 
force. They try to recruit positive 
role models from within the com­
munities to lead programs that 
help prevent youth crimes.
The broadcast described these 
programs and speakers from con­
tributing corporations such as 
Duquense Light, United Way, 
NAACP, and Jewish Healthcare 
Foundation, spoke of their hopes 
for the program. The panelists 
focused on three areas they 
planned to target: prevention, in­
tervention, and community mo­
bilization.
When tuas the 
last time
You
went back to
High
School?
CMU is prepared to offer you 
the opportunity to do so without 
getting caught in the hall without a
pass. Your teachers won't seem as 
intimidating as they used to, those 
old lockers will seem smaller than 
ever and you'll have more than 
twenty minutes to eat your lunch!
The Office of Admission would 
like you to represent us to the juniors 
and seniors currently at your high 
school this winter break. You can tell 
them all about your experiences at 
CMU and get them psyched about 
going to college!
Sound Like Fun?
Then you would make a perfect addition to our high school ambassador 
program! We will assist you with the information and the arrangements. 
All you have to do is attend one of the following informational meetings:
Monday, December 2 or 
Tuesday, December 3 at 6pm 
The Office of Admission 
Warner Hall 103
If you are unable to make either of the planned meetings or if you have any questions, please 
contact Trevor Rusert in the Office of Admission by calling x8-2082 or by email (tr32).
This is a paid advertisement
H. John Heinz III School of Public Policy & Management
Attention CMU Juniors:
The Heinz School of Carnegie Mellon 
provides an opportunity for qualified 
students to work towards a masters de­
gree while completing their under­
graduate programs. The Heinz 3-1-1 
program will allow you to complete 
both your undergraduate degree and 
graduate degree in 5 years or less!
Want to lean more about this program? 
Come to an information session on the 
Heinz School's 3-1-1 program and start 
your masters education now! Pro­
grams available in Management Infor­
mation Systems, Arts Management, 
and more.
What: 3-1-1 Information Session
When: Thursday, November 21, 1996 
Time: 12 pm-2 pm
Where: Hamburg Hall (HBH) 1001 
RSVP: X8-8949 or
sdlz@andrew.cmu.edu

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 18 November 19965
Questions arise over local church’s presence on CMU campus
ICC, from page 1
The group has also been known to call 
itself the Bereans, Campus Advance, 
and Upside Down.
“Some churches actually have quotas, 
and if you don’t bring in your required 
number of people, they beat you up psycho­
logically,” said Rick Nowlin, a columnist for 
The Pitt News, who spoke at the meeting.
The organization has a specific way of 
recruitment. Typically a student is ap­
proached by two people of the same gen­
der and asked to a bible study. “They do 
everything in pairs ... [and] they’re very 
gender specific,” said Check.
“The way this group operates is that 
they always send out pairs. And there’s 
always backup. They prefer to get you 
two on one,” said Nowlin.
“Jesus sent people out two by two, and 
if I set aside 15 minutes to go out and talk 
to people, it makes it not so lonely to be 
with friends ... so you can talk and be 
social along the way,” said Cardelli.
Recently, the organization has been ag­
gressively recruiting on CMUs campus.
“I saw flyers about it in Morewood. It 
looks so innocent. In great big letters it 
says ‘CHURCH?’... and then at the very 
bottom it says ‘Greater Pittsburgh Church 
of Christ,’ ” said a student at the meeting.
“The same person has approached me, 
my roommate, and a girl from my hall.... I
got really curious about this, and I started 
to goof around on the internet, and I went 
to the finger services, and I didn’t find 
anyone named Tamara [Mohn, a member 
of the church] having an account who 
matches the description that she gave 
me,” said another student at the meeting.
Tamara Mhone, a master’s student in 
Public Policy and a member ofThe Greater 
Pittsburgh Church of Christ, said, “I’ve 
shared my faith on campus, but I’ve never 
forced anyone to do 
anything. I invite 
people to attend ser­
vices, but I never 
force people.”
“I was sitting out- 
sideHighlanderread- 
ing, and two girls 
came up to me, and 
the taller one said,
‘Are you interested in 
learning about bible
study on this campus?’ and I [said], Yeah, 
I reallyam,’ and we just started talking, and 
it seemed like she was my best friend. It 
seemed like I’d met someone I had a lot in 
common with,” said the student.
“I emailed all of my friends back home 
about this, and [told them] ‘Watch out.’ 
And one thing I said was that if it makes 
youfeel uncomfortable, it’s them, not you.... 
If it makes you feel strange, don’t go
through with it,” continued the student.
Cardelli said, “We definitetly want people 
to come out and study the bible. Not for our 
own good—we’re not selfishly ambitious.” 
When asked about the allegation that 
members of the church pressure students 
into coming to meetings and joining the 
church, Mhone said, “That’s not true. 
Why would someone want to do that?” 
Cardelli added, “No one forces you to 
do anything.... Me and my friends go out
“We definitetly want people to come out 
and study the bible. Not for our own 
good — we're not selfishly ambitious,"
— Renee Cardelli, member of The 
______Greater Pittsburgh Church of Christ
on campus and if [someone] says [they 
aren’t interested], we move on [sic]. Many 
times there are people who are wishy- 
washy, so how do you take that?”
“Basically, they don’t care who you are 
or where you come from or anything — 
they’ll try and get you,” said Nowlin.
“My history with the International 
Church of Christ goes back about three 
years. I had a very dear friend in Chi­
cago who was in the church, [who] in­
vited me to [the church’s] 1993 New 
Year’s eve party,” said Nowlin.
Later that summer, Nowlin was con­
tacted by a member of the group who had 
been given his number. “About a week and 
a half later I called him back and told him 
that I had some problems with the doc­
trine, and he got hot. In the course of the 
conversation, one thing I distinctly remem­
ber, and this is a direct quote from him, was 
[him saying] ‘We’re the only 
ones who teach this mes­
sage,’ and I said *No you’re 
not.’ And I knew something 
was definitely amiss,” said 
Nowlin.
“I was a little bit concerned 
about what was going on, so 
I called a counter-cult orga­
nization, in Murrysville PA, 
and asked if they knew any­
thing about this group. 
That’s when they dropped the bomb on me, 
[that] this group indeed was abberational, 
and I think they would call this a cult,” said 
Nowlin.
“My story does have a happy ending. 
Well, by the grace of God, in the begin­
ning of August, in part due to losing her 
job, my friend left the cult and Chicago so 
that they couldn’t find her,” said Nowlin.
“[The ICC] generally does not own any
property. What that allows them to do; 
unfortunately, is that if things get hot 
they can beat the heat, [to] leave town, 
which has happened a number of times,” 
said Nowlin.
The church has had meetings at The 
Original in the University Center, thè 
Holiday Inn, and at the William Pitt 
building. A reporter from The Pittsburgh 
Post-Gazette recently tried attending à 
meeting, but the group wasn’t present at 
its regular meeting place.
Attending meetings to find out more 
about the group was also discussed. “Thè 
thing about going to their meetings is that 
we’d like to make it non-confrontational^ 
because they can come here,” said Check.
Also emphasizedinthe meeting was the 
freedom of people to safely explore their 
religious beliefs. “My concern is that the 
integrity of people who want to exploré 
their spirituality any way they want is 
maintained, whether they be Jewish, 
Hindu, Islamic, or Christian,” said Check.
“These issues need to be brought out 
in the open because a lot of things are 
based on hearsay,” said Cardelli.
Another meeting discussing the group 
will be held December 2nd at 6 pm at the 
CMU Campus Ministry offices.
Jack Armstrong, pastor of the Greater 
Pittsburgh Church of Christ, could not 
be reached for comment.Disappointed with verdict, protesters rally in downtown Pittsburgh
VIM9nU gvtn9oyuu1 ,e9ueI geIeirIi ’Mruy9 
Protesters carried signs expressing their outrage at the acquittal.
StudentSenateMinutes
PROTEST, from page 1
not going to rest—the officers of 
Pittsburgh will not get away with 
this.”
“Everybody seems to be 
aware of the verdict, even 
people from outside of Pitts­
burgh — it’s become a national 
issue. But I don’t think the gen­
eral public, including the stu­
dents at CMU, are as aware of 
the facts of the case as they 
should be,” said Peter Shell, a 
research programmer for the 
Center of Machine Translation 
at CMU and member of the 
Campus Coalition for Peace and 
Justice (CCPJ), as well as the 
Western Pennsylvania Com­
mittee to Free Mumia Abu- 
Jamal.
“Everybody knew [Vojtas] 
was going to get off because 
this is Pittsburgh,” said one of 
the protesters.
Some protesters wanted to do 
more than talk about the verdict, 
they wanted to take action. “I got 
a lot of anger inside — a lot of 
anger. [And talking] don’t do 
nothing for that anger inside 
[sic],” said one protester.
Another furthered this 
statement by saying, “We 
[have to] do more than talk. 
I’m tired of talking. Jonny 
Gammage tried to talk, and 
look where it got him.” 
Although there was specu­
lation that violence would oc­
cur throughout the city and 
extra hospital personnel and 
police personnel were called 
to duty, there were no official 
reports of verdict-related vio­
lence that night.
“I think that one reason there 
wasn’t violence is that we’ve
been politically ... organizing 
for justice for the past year, 
with several forums, rallies, 
and press conferences, so that 
people have a political outlet 
for their rage,” said Shell. 
“We’ve always encouraged 
people to be non-violent.”
Rally organizers have been 
stressing non-violent protesting 
through a boycott of white-owned 
downtown stores.
Other rallies and marches 
have taken place since the ver­
dict, including a march last 
Saturday sponsored by the
NAACP that drew about 2,000 
people. A life-chain filled the 
streets of downtown Pitts­
burgh, around the courthouse 
and city-county buildings as a 
part of this protest.
“[What happened to Jonny 
Gammage] cannot happen to 
anybody else. I don’t want it' 
happening to my son, I don’t 
want it happening to your son 
— anyone,” said protester 
Kelly Vick.
A comment could not be ob­
tained from police officers on the 
scene of the march.
STUDENT SENATE Division of Student Affairs
Meeting of 11 November 1996 (Barbara Prevost): No report.
STUDENT
SENATE
Roll was taken at 7:30 pm. 
Meeting was called to order at 
7:35 pm.
Senators Present: Amin 
(HSS-SAL), Bembenick (HSS), 
Cox (CIT), Chang (MCS), Fay 
(MIS), Go (SIA-SAL), Gulkis 
(CFA), Horwitz (SCS), Jain 
(SIA), Jones (CFA), Kenney 
(MCS), Kienzl (HNZ-SAL), 
Klein (CIT), Lentz (MCS), 
Mendelssohn (CIT-SAL), 
Messinger (CIT), Muir (HSS), 
Pinkston (CIT), Prattipati 
(SCS), Raza (HSS), Robles 
(MCS), Rumpf (CIT), Senderling 
(HNZ), Szudarek (HSS), 
Toraason (MCS).
Senators Absent: Abramson 
(HSS), Braden (SIA-SAL), 
Connor (HSS), Davis (HNZ), 
Rosenthal (SCS).
Ex-Officio Reports:
Activities Board (Jill 
Goodall): No report.
Graduate Student Organi­
zation (William Slye): No report.
Greek Council (Adele 
Chiodo): No report.
Faculty Senate (Barbara 
Prevost): No report.
Student Dormitory Council
(Michael Sperger): No report.
President (Bryon Krug): The 
Task Force on Student Represen­
tation has finished its recommen­
dations for increasing the effec­
tiveness of student government. 
Contact me if you would like a 
copy of their findings.
.Treasurer (Brian Mueller): No 
report.
Committee Reports:
Academic Affairs (Will 
Toraason): No report.
Campus Affairs (Robert 
Rumpf): No report.
Funding and Recognition
(Avinash Jain): No report.
Human Resources (Mike 
Szudarek): The complete Senate 
list is now ready, please make 
sure your information is correct. 
The talks with GSO will be re­
started soon, and a group of sena­
tors is needed to sit on the com­
mittee. Send email to ss2p if you 
are interested.
Public Relations (Matt 
Bembenick): Elections will be 
held on November 12,13, and 14 
from 10 pm to 5 pm.
Chair (Catherine Senderling): 
Budget packets for the fall budgets 
will be distributed tonight and 
voted on at next week’s meeting.
New Business From Com­
mittee:
•F96-016 FUNC Resolution:
The group FUNC would like 
the Senate to encourage the ad­
ministration to withhold statisti­
cal information from U.S. News 
and World Report's college 
rankings.
Failed by hand vote, 1-7-10.
•F96-013 Non-Funded Recog­
nition — Sushi Society:
Passed by acclamation.
•F96-014 Special Allocation to 
Greek Council — $2,000:
The Greek Council is request­
ing up to $2,000 to hire an inde­
pendent appraiser to conduct a 
rental survey of fraternity hous­
ing.
Passed by hand vote, 17-2-1.
•F96-015 Special Allocation to 
Speedskating Club — $250:
The money is to pay for league 
dues.
Passed by hand vote, 19-1.
Approval of the Minutes:
Minutes from October 28,1996 
were approved by acclamation.
Announcements:
•Elections were on Nov. 12,13, 
and 14. For information on ad­
vertising for elections, please con­
tact Stan Jones.
Meeting adjourned at 9:55 pm.
Submitted By 
BEN BOSTWICK 
Edited By 
BECKY COWSER
Are you...
... 1±iirik±ng about law school, 
and law as a career, or
.. .a veteran debater interested in 
similar activity at college-level, or
UNDERGRADUATE 
MOCK TRIAL TEAM...........interested in honingyour
public speaking skills?
Then consider joining Carnegie Mellon' s 
Undergraduate Mock Trial Team.
The Undergraduate Mock Trial Team is open 
to all CMU undergraduates (not just mem­
bers of the Prelaw Society). CMU will serve 
as a regional host in the first round of the 
American Mock Trial Association 1997 na­
tional tournament. The CMU regional tour­
nament will occur on Friday-Saturday, Feb­
ruary 21—22, 1997.
Organizational and informational meeting: 
Thursday, November 21, 4:30—5:30 PM, 
in PORTER HALL 125B. If interested but 
unable to attend this meeting, or if you have 
questions, send e-mail to 
j d0x@ andrew. emu. edu.
Sponsored by the CMU Prelaw Student Society 
and
University Prelaw Advising Program

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Carnegie Mellon University18 November 1996
Hollow leadership 
impedes elections
j Another election for Student Sen- 
late has passed us by — another 
! dismal showing at the polls, an­
other strong performance by 
| Disney characters, another victory 
¡for apathy and empty leadership. 
¡Senate should blame no one but 
themselves for the lack of student 
involvement — election publicity 
i was menial and candidate profiles 
; were not made available for poten­
tial voters to review. What little 
¡publicity there was centered 
; around a poster encouraging stu­
dents to vote for “People you can 
;trust.” It must be awfully difficult 
to put any faith in an election where 
the candidates are invisible or even 
unknown and the people manning 
the polling stations are asking you 
vote for them as write-ins.
The whole process is reduced to a 
farce when three people can 
succesfully vote a mutual friend 
; into Senate as a joke. The candi­
dates themselves are as much to 
blame for election failure; why vote 
for candidates who have not even 
taken the election seriously enough 
to campaign and compete for votes? 
Why should students take an elec­
tion seriously if there are no Sena­
torial races to speak of?
; But it is easy to blame less-than- 
I adequate publicity for yet another 
¡election failure. The problem actu­
ally stems from the fact that 
^ Senate’s historic sloth has con­
demned it — in its current state,
; Senate exists purely for the reason 
¦ of existing. Its accomplishments 
in recent years, although impor­
tant, have been few and far be­
tween — increased hours for Hunt 
Library during finals, replacing 
:the seats in Porter Hall 100. With
Recognition Committee, it is hard 
to think of a single Senate body 
that undertakes and completes 
any important tasks consistently. 
Publicity cannot be the main 
problem when there really isn’t 
anything going on to publicize.
A little revolution every now 
and then is a good thing and 
Senate could stand to learn a lot 
by heeding this advice. The orga­
nization needs to reinvent itself, 
shed its current, debilitating im­
age, and restate its purpose to 
the students of this University, 
to become a new, dynamic lead­
ing legislative. Perhaps a top-to- 
bottom shake-up needs to be ac­
companied by a change of name: 
Student Congress, Student Gov­
ernment or Student Council.
Such a change would necessar­
ily result in a different kind of 
elections at CMU. A more reso­
lute, and dynamic legislature 
would naturally result in a more 
attractive and “electable” crop of 
candidates. These candidates 
would have to take the process 
seriously, and present well-con­
ceived platforms and profiles to 
both the student body and A Phi 
O, the service fraternity that 
regulates elections.
Senate, in its current state, can­
not be salvaged through minor 
reforms and the efforts of a hand­
ful of concerned individuals who 
are frustrated by the rest of the 
organization every year. Student 
government at Carnegie Mellon 
needs a new image, a new pur­
pose, and new resolve.
Its time to stop plugging the 
holes in a hopelessly broken ship 
and start all over again in a dif-
¡the exception of the Funding and ferent vessel altogether.Academic facilities 
require maintenance
The majority of the academic 
buildings at CMU are storied and 
architecturally intriguing struc­
tures. The interior spaces are 
equally interesting. However, the 
poor upkeep of our academic facili­
ties have lead to a level of disre- 
ipair that makes the classrooms
¦ unusable, and certainly uncom­
fortable.
: Higher education requires an
¦ amenable and fostering environ­
ment, and the facilities in our aca­
demic buildings, particularly in 
Baker, Porter, Doherty, and Scaife 
;Halls, simply do not provide this 
| atmosphere.
I It is important to recognize these 
; classrooms, including the smaller 
;rooms throughout Baker and Por- 
Iter Halls, as the resources that 
;they are. If these rooms were kept 
;in some presentable condition, the 
I demand for extra-curricular and 
;organizational meeting space 
Iwould no longer be focused so in-
¦ tently on the University Center 
; and Posner Hall, the only academic 
;building where up-keep of the fa- 
! cilities is undertaken with any con­
sistency.
! However, at least non-academic 
: gatherings have the option of be­
ing held at different locations — if 
:you’re in a class that happens to be
¦ stuck in some crumbling lecture 
;room in Porter or a cramped closet 
:in Scaife, you’re just out of luck. It 
is no exaggeration to say that stu­
dents often try to register for 
classes or sections that meet in 
more comfortable rooms. They can
hardly be blamed; a broken chair, 
a nasty smell in the air, poor 
temperature control or lighting, 
or ceiling tiles falling to the 
ground — these are all things 
that make it that much harder to 
concentrate on the class mate­
rial. It also constitutes a health 
hazard; it is not particularly safe 
to have pieces of ceiling plaster 
landing on students heads, as 
happened in Doherty 1212 two 
years ago (the student was fortu­
nately not hurt, although she 
had to leave class).
It seems that maintenance pro­
cedures are to blame for the im­
paired state of a majority of our 
academic facilities. Facilities 
Management Services acts too 
slowly on the maintenance re­
quests it does receive and in some 
instances, it is doubtful whether 
they have acted at all.
Where the second case is in­
comprehensible, the first is un­
acceptable. A professor should 
not have to wait three months 
for curtains to be fixed so he or 
she can show a video for the 
class. Students should not have 
to squint for weeks on end be­
cause blown light-bulbs aren’t 
being replaced.
The University needs to re­
commit itself to restoring our 
unique academic buildings. 
They owe it to the legacy of the 
students and faculty who built 
this school’s reputation; they 
owe it to those who will make 
that reputation grow.
Writer calls for removal of U.S. forces
Jon Orris
It’s only been two weeks since the 
election, and Clinton is already back to 
demonstrating what utter slime he is. 
Anyone remember all those troops in 
Bosnia? The ones who were absolutely, 
without question, supposed to be home 
by this Christmas?
There’s been a change of plans. We 
aren’t pulling out after all. About 14,000 
will return home by Christmas, to be 
replaced by 8,500 fresh troops.
They will stay in Bosnia to “ensure 
peace” until the middle of 1998, after 
which, they will absolutely, without ques­
tion, return home.
In addition, plans are being laid to 
send at least 4,000 troops into Zaire to 
help with the crisis there.
Funny, I don’t recall Clinton mention­
ing any of this during the election. Why 
am I not suprised?
I wonder what the election results 
would have been like if he had bothered 
to mention this. Bosnia and Zaire are
countries that have been fought over for 
centuries. Bosnia could explode at any 
minute, and Zaire already has.
The United States has absolutely no 
interest in either of these holes, so why 
are we sending troops there? Why is the 
opposition usually so lackluster?
This turning of the United States mili­
tary into some global humanitarian cop 
is a clear example of the corrupt moral­
ity of altruism that both Clinton and his 
would-be opponents share.
By this standard, because someone, 
somewhere, is suffering, we must suffer 
too. We must do something to “help,” we 
must intervene, we must sacrifice our­
selves for their sake. It is our duty.
By that standard, there is little basis 
for opposition to succeed. Opponents may 
charge, correctly, that the U.S. has no 
interests there. Clinton can easily 
counter with a stream of meaningless 
tripe about “America’s Global Role” or 
“Assuring Tranquillity” or how “Global 
events may affect us.” These are stock 
answers that everyone expects and 
blindly listens to.
The troops are then sent. What is 
needed for a more rational foreign policy 
is to reject the altruistic notion that one 
suffering group places unquestionable 
demands upon the lives of others.
The only moral purpose of a govern­
ment is the protection of its citizen’s
rights. The sole purpose of the U.S. mili- 
tary is to protect American lives and 
property from foreign aggressors.
To send the brave men and women of 
the armed forces off to sacrifice their 
lives for no reason whatsoever in i 
like Bosnia or Zaire is obscene.
If you’re having trouble rejecting the 
notions that have been drummed into 
you all your life, think about how this 
affects you personally. The implications, 
as they say, are staggering.
I’m sure that some readers out there 
have relatives who will be sent to risk 
their lives to carry out Clinton’s £ 
vision. Are you happy knowingyour loved 
ones may die for this?
Any readers out there in ROTC, espe­
cially those about to graduate? Is this 
what you joined the military for? Did 
you join because you value America and 
want to defend it and what it stands for, 
or because you wanted to be in an armed 
version of the Peace Corps?
Will you be happy serving under this 
Commander in Chief, who has been 
quoted as saying that nothing the U.S. 
did before 1900 has any relevance to his 
view of “America’s future global role?”
Do you want to risk your life for this?
Jon Orris is a graduate student in CS. 
He welcomes any responsible replies to 
his column.Shakespeare beats Elvis in taste test
Douglas Howe
There’s a stigma 
here at CMU about 
the drama depart­
ment. I can’t objec­
tively define or ex­
plain it, because 
I’m part of the ma­
chine, but I feel it.
___________________________________ It would be foolish
of me to attempt to
explain what goes on, as it would be foolish for someone in the 
computer engineering department to try and justify what 
they’re doing with their lives. And I’m not a very successful 
advertiser. I haven’t the slightest idea how to “sell” something 
to someone. Which might be a hindrance to me, being that my 
job is to make an audience “buy” what I’m doing in a perfor­
mance, but we’re just gonna have to let that one go too.
I love Shakespeare. If there were a person I admired more, 
living or dead, than Shakespeare, I’d be surprised. Possibly 
Elvis, but the Bard still would slink by to be on top. His 
creations are more than plays, they are testaments to the 
human spirit. But there is a preconceived notion about Willy, 
and if there were anyone I could blame, it’d be high school 
teachers. That’s where the crimes against glory began. I know 
this because I was one of you.
Freshman year: Julius Caesar. Now, I haven’t the slightest 
clue in the world why a system, supposedly so respected and 
responsible, would give pimply-faced, image-conscious, hor­
mone-raging buffoons, of all things, Julius Caesar. That’s 
what I call a bad curriculum. Sophomore year was closer. We 
got Romeo and Juliet. At least that was something in our 
immediate spectrum. They were our age, that was something. 
But when your teacher is a burnout from the local community 
college who is reading the play for the first time too, I doubt 
there is going to be much excitement aroused. The main 
problem is that Shakespeare can’t be read. The worst thing to 
do to him is keep him on the page and in your head. It’s like 
doing aerobics sitting on your couch. It doesn’t work.
But, of course, no high school kid is going to risk standing 
up in front of his English class and read “To be or not to be.”
Therein lies the second misconception: Shakespeare is 
difficult. With all those “thous,” “arts,” “thines,” “hithers,” 
and “fadges,” who the hell’s gonna understand it? It was 
written over 400 years ago when they spoke like idiots, and 
they’re in England to boot. The fact of the matter is, in the 
grand scheme of language, Shakespeare’s style and form are 
most closely related to the way we organize things now than 
they ever were. People think you have to do Shakespeare in 
a British dialect, sounding all high and mighty, when in 
reality, back in the 1600s, the Brits spoke more like us now 
than they do across the Atlantic. If anything, it is the perfect 
time to be doing William.
“But it’s so out-dated and boring. What does it have to do 
with me?” It has everything to do with you. There are more 
universal themes in Shakespeare than anywhere else in all of 
literature. That’s why he’s survived all this time. His message 
isn’t about a certain time and age, it’s about human nature 
and the realities we all deal with, no matter what time period. 
Love, hate, revenge, pride, drunkenness, status, death, dis­
guises, fear, longing. And that’s only the first act of Twelfth 
Night, a play I’m going to be performing in very shortly.
Recently, I’ve been pondering why the heck I’m doing what 
I’m doing. As I come closer and closer to graduation, I reflect 
more upon my past decisions and wonder. Why acting? Why 
the theatre? Well, as some famous guy said, “Seek and ye 
shall find.”
As it may be hard for some to believe, I’m not doing this for 
myself. Sure, there obviously is an element of personal gain 
and a desire to wiggle around on stage, but mainly I’m doing 
it because I want to touch people. I want to have an effect on 
people’s lives, and the way I think I can best do that is through 
the theatre. It may be different for some, but I see the theatre 
as The Truth. It’s the only place that I’m free enough to be who 
I am. It isn’t about running away from myself, pretending to 
be another person and wanting desperately to be something 
I’m not. It’s about “acting,” taking action. J.D. Salinger wrote, 
“Artists are the only ones who are concerned with and observe 
their environment.” I believe him.
So many people seem to focus on busying themselves that 
they can’t see the forest for the trees. In the grand scheme of 
things, we’re not here to consume, not to mass-market, not to 
reach a new level of technological advancement. We can’t 
even handle what we’ve got now, let alone alienate ourselves 
even further. Looking around the room here in the cluster, 
there are a group of people who don’t know each other, being 
silent, staring blankly into an inanimate object, hopelessly 
searching for some kind of truth, but all it perpetrates is 
loneliness and isolation. We need people, we need interaction. 
Not from a virtual reality machine, but from living, breathing 
beings. TV is just as bad. It’s just a machine. It’s safe.
We can turn it off whenever we want. We have control, but 
we rarely use it. It’s got us by the balls, and it isn’t going to let 
go. We’re all playing games, playing our roles in society, a 
student, child, significant other, but we’re hiding. It isn’t us. 
It’s a mask of who we are. We’re not honest. We let ] 
know what we want them to know.
No more, no less. We’re all actors. We play our part, without 
revealing who and what we really are. But on stage, those 
aren’t the rules. There are no rules.
In each of us, there is everything. Every possiblity is inside, 
from a saint to a murderer.
I think people go to the theatre, not because it’s a high class 
thing to do, but because we’re all seeking for The Truth, and 
sometimes, even if it’s not for very long, you see it. You f 
something. The surge, the energy, the connection is made. 
You understand. You know.
One doesn’t have to explain it, because it can’t be put into 
words. It’s the indefinable that we seek and we know when 
we’ve found it. And if there is anyone who knows better how 
to communicate that unity in all of our souls, it’s Shakespeare
No subtext, no bullshit. All character, all emotion, all 
“Truth.” There are three elements to theatre.
One is the individual actor, the second is the relationship 
that actor has to the other actors, but the third is the most; 
important, the audience. It’s all for you.
We haven’t done our job if you don’t leave with something 
more than you came with.
Doug Howe will be doing some Shakespeare in Kresge this 
Thursday, the 21st. He welcomes any responsible replies to his 
column, and hopes to see you in the audience while he does this 
thing. He intends to wiggle.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 18 November 19967
Social security serves citizens sans efficiency
James Stepanek
This week, I am going to bring' 
up one topic with which most of 
you are familiar — the internet. 
However, I’m not going to do 
something geeky and bitch about 
•slow websites and poor band- 
-width on the CMU net. I’m here 
to use the net as a demonstration 
of how something which is obvi­
ously a fraud in some cases ap­
peals to people in others.
Lately, as a flood of new idiots 
has been taking over the net, we 
have been subjected to a horde of 
the damn “Make Money Fast” 
posts. For those of you who aren’t 
net savvy, these posts are a type 
of chain letter. They consist of a 
list of people to whom you are 
supposed to send money and then 
yousendthe letter to otherpeople 
after putting your name on the 
list. This is also known as a pyra­
mid scheme.
It is illegal to do this in the U.S. 
Mail and will get you either kicked 
off of net access or put on proba­
tion where your account will be 
lost if you screw up again. They 
are based on the theory that you
can collect money from the base 
of an ever expanding pyramid, 
and if you’re near the top you 
come off mighty well. Of course if 
you’re lower down, you tend to 
get screwed. An even worse type 
of scam, which is similar to this, 
is a Ponzi scheme. This consists 
of enticing investors into a good 
deal, and using new investors to 
pay off the old ones.
Once you run out of investors, 
the whole thing collapses.
Well, with expanding internet 
access I tend to see posts of this 
sort all over the newsgroups. 
They are an apparent scourge, 
and the net consensus is such 
that they are universally reviled. 
Why is it then that when the 
government instigates similar 
system, everyone lauds it as a 
right and a great program?
The system in question is, of 
course, Social Security. This is an 
elaborate Ponzi scheme cooked 
up by FDR back in the ‘30s. It 
shifts money from those who are 
working to those who are retired. 
It was set up with the assump­
tion of a growing population, and 
a payout date set beyond the ex­
pected lifetime to keep up finan­
cial viability. The problem is the 
population stopped it’s rapid 
growth and people started living 
longer. Oops, looks like the excre­
ment has hit the ventilator.
No, not quite yet.
You see back in the early ‘80s 
people saw how it was a coming 
train wreck and took some steps 
to put it off. They didn't actually 
fix the problem, they just laid out 
a bit more track so the train could 
pick up more speed.
This also describes Medicare, 
which applies the same logic, but 
with the payout being medical 
care instead of a pension. In ei­
ther case it’s just a Ponzi scheme 
with federal blessing. Either one 
is about as smart an investment 
as sticking money in an old mat­
tress in your basement. Both of 
these schemes are going to go 
broke. Medicare will go bust much 
sooner. They also both need to go 
broke because they are economi­
cally moronic. If a person simply 
put their money in CDs, they’d 
get a much better return on the 
investment.
Of course, as with all Ponzi 
schemes, this was not true for 
people who got in at the begin­
ning but let’s face it, we’re stuck 
holding up the bag. The future is 
even more problematic. The 
weight upon those of us continu­
ing to pay for the system will 
surely become crushing unless 
we get rid of the scheme. The only 
way to continue the scheme will 
requires massive taxation as the 
retiree per worker ratio keeps
increasing. What needs to be done 
is an escape from the cycle.
What the U.S. needs to do is 
privatize the system. I know, 
there are skeptics about every­
thing, especially free market so­
lutions, but in this case I have 
evidence on my side. This has 
been tried. In Chile they 
privatized their Social Security 
system back in 1981.
In their policy they require 
people to put money in a private 
pension fund which is managed 
by a licensed business.
What happens is that the per­
son goes to the office of the invest­
ment business and decides at 
what year they wish to retire. 
They then can place between 10 
and 20 percent of their wages 
into this account.
The account consists of a diver­
sified mutual fund which is inde­
pendent of the investment firm, 
so even if the firm goes belly up, 
the savings are untouched.
The diversification is mandated 
by the government so as to keep a 
high level of confidence and secu­
rity. Upon retirement the fund is 
paid out through an annuity 
which is arranged through an 
insurance company.
How has Chile done so far?
Well they made the switch to 
the private system optional, and 
90 percent of the people have
made the transition. Because of 
the markedly better returns of­
fered by intelligent investing, the 
values of these funds have been 
translated into much higher pen­
sions for less initial investment. 
The freedom to determine one’s 
own retirement age has also had 
a great deal of appeal. These are 
just the effects to the individual. 
The country as a whole has prof­
ited remarkably from this new 
system. Economic growth has 
been around 7 percent for the 
past ten years. The savings rate 
in Chile is now around 26 per­
cent, which is much higher than 
the rest of Latin America, and is 
also higher than that of the U.S.
In closing, a bad idea on the net 
is no better when it is done by the 
federal government.
A Ponzi scheme only wins for 
those at the start while a system 
of private investment wins for 
everyone. If the people in this 
country had a whit of sense, they’d 
be screaming and yelling to de­
mand a privatized system. Of 
course I imagine this would only 
be drowned out by the caterwaul­
ing of the liberals who’d hate to 
see government shrink, even if 
people became better off for it.
James Stepanek is a Ph.D. can­
didate in MSE. He welcomes any 
responsible replies to his column.‘Warriors’ against drugs misfire in U.S., South America
Editor's Notebook
What if grapes were outlawed on na­
tional and international markets and coun­
tries around the world invested billions of 
dollars a year to eradicate grape planta­
tions — many times through force (result­
ing in hundreds of un-reported human- 
rights violations annually), because the 
most powerful country in the world had 
decided to wage an ill-conceived and fa­
tally flawed “War on Alcohol?” Though 
this hypothetical situation undoubtedly 
sounds ludicrous to our North American 
ears, it bears a striking resemblance to the 
very real i£War on Drugs” and drive to 
eradicate the coca plant here in Bolivia.
Although our battle against drugs be­
gan in 1914 it really didn’t take-off until 
1968, when President Nixon officially de­
clared a war on drugs and established the 
DEA (Drug Enforcement Administration). 
Administrations following Nixon contin­
ued his anti-drug policies, but the war on 
drugs expanded incredibly during the 
Reagan-Bush years, when drug traffick­
ing was declared a threat to national secu­
rity and the anti-narcotics program be­
came the most expensive in U.S. history 
(in 1970 the federal drug budget was about 
$53 million, by 1995 it had climbed to more 
than $8.2 billion).
One might ask why it is that more Ameri­
cans are addicted to hard drugs now than 
they were in 1970.
The answers can be found in the flawed 
strategy of the war on drugs.
The first flaw of the drug war is that it 
ignores the simple logic of supply and 
demand. Two major components of Bush’s
Andean strategy, initiated in 1989, are the 
eradication of the coca leaf (through mili­
tary assistance) in countries that produce 
large amounts of the crop, like Peru, Co­
lombia and Bolivia, and the elimination of 
all drug-trafficking organizations in the 
region. However, this approach ignores 
the fact that markets surface wherever 
and whenever there is a demand. So, even 
if it were possible to eliminate coca planta­
tions and coca plantations in the Andean 
region, cocaine processing plants and coca 
plantations would surface in other parts of 
the world, to accommodate the demand (in 
the ‘70s the U.S. eliminated marijuana 
plantations in Mexico and now we are the 
world’s top producer of the crop).
Another strategical flaw on the part of 
anti-drug rise, is that drug lords reap 
more money for less product, and thus can 
afford to pay people more for production 
and distribution.
The war on drugs also fails because it is 
not only a war against suppliers, but also 
a war against users. Addicts are viewed 
and treated as criminals rather than people 
with severe health problems. Both the law 
and existing health care systems focus on 
punishing drug users, rather than helping 
them overcome their addictions. In the 
current political climate, drugs and the 
people who take them are viewed as mor­
ally wrong — up to now there has been 
little or no serious effort to account for the 
social, racial, and economic factors that 
contribute to drug abuse. The dominant 
attitude is “get the bad guys and lock them 
up.” Evidence also shows that imprison­
mnent actually may increase drug use. One 
study of state-prison inmates found that 
almost half who had used illicit drugs had 
not tried them until after their first incar­
ceration. Studies have shown that inmates 
who receive treatment for substance abuse 
(about 60 to 80 percent of the one million
Americans in prison) would stop drug 
abuse. However, only one in six inmates 
receives treatment of any kind and only 2 
percent acquire the kind of sustained treat­
ment necessary to overcome their addic­
tions and problems.
In Bolivia the price of the war on drugs 
is very high. Since the ’80s the Bolivian 
government has accepted increasingly 
large amounts of aid from the U.S., Eu­
rope and international banking organiza­
tions like the World Bank and the IMF 
(International Monetary Fund) to combat 
the devastating affects of the crash of the 
tin market in ’85 which left 30,000 miners 
out of work with little or no recourse. Since 
the Bolivian government finds itself in 
such a precarious economic situation, offi­
cials will do almost anything to eliminate 
the designated number of plantations — 
including violate human rights. Police 
units in the Chapare and Yungas regions 
(where the majority of coca is grown) have 
complete impunity — charges of serious 
abuse, like torture and murder are rarely, 
if ever investigated.
Further compounding the forced eradi­
cation of the coca leaf is the fact that up to 
50% of the nation’s economy is derived 
from its exportation. This means that if 
U.S. were successful and the coca leaf was 
eliminated, millions of Bolivian peasants 
would have no means of survival. Coca is 
the ideal crop — it grows easily on poor 
soils, is inexpensive to process, has low 
start-up costs and an assured market, and 
yields for crops a year. USAID currently 
has numerous “alternative development” 
projects at work in the Chapare, but no 
other crop compares to coca in profits (in 
the 1980’s a coca farmer could reap up to 
$2600 per hectare annually — more than 
four times the earnings from cultivating 
oranges or avocados, the two most profit­
able legal crops in the area).
Finally, U.S. policy makers often make 
the mistake of equating the coca leaf with 
cocaine. Coca is just one of the many 
ingredients used in the processing of co­
caine (other ingredients include kerosene, 
sulphuric acid, and acetone). Although 
coca does contain small amounts of co­
caine the concentrations are 220 times 
weaker than if inhaled or injected di­
rectly and coca is not addictive. The coca 
leaf is an integral part of many Andean 
people’s culture — coca has been culti­
vated for over 4,000 years in the region 
and is most commonly chewed to ward off 
hunger and fatigue in the cold highlands.
Analyzing and feeling all I have read 
and all I have experienced here in Bo­
livia, the war on drugs now seems to me 
the cruelest of pejorative exercises on the 
part of U.S. politicians, bureaucrats, and 
we, the American public. It is widely 
know that the war on drugs isn’t working, 
that we aren’t winning — so why are we 
paying more tax dollars every year to 
support a strategy that undermines hu­
man development at every point, in every 
part of the world? Isn’t it ironic that the 
federal budget for education is in jeop­
ardy, while more money pours into mili­
tary repression abroad, and punitive pro­
grams for the sick at home? Isn’t it time 
that we asked ourselves why military 
presence and ideology are so strong in our 
lives—why we always have to be fighting 
a war? We need a whole new language to 
talk about the drug problem today, be­
cause the problem has less to with the 
drugs themselves than the war we wage 
around them.
Shannon Gibney is a senior creative 
writing and Spanish major studying in 
Bolivia. She is a Contributing Editor and 
her opinions do not reflect those of the 
Tartan editorial board.
Student Senate elections 
have come and gone. It would 
be interesting to find out the 
names of a few of our repre­
sentatives. We asked: Do you 
know who your student 
senator is?
Steve Galles 
Freshman 
Cognitive Science
“What? I don’t even know what 
that is.”
Lynda Brimage
Senior
IM
“No, I’ve never known. I voted 
once and I didn’t even know who 
I was voting for.”
Mike Wood 
Freshman 
MSE
“No. They should become more 
of a public figure.”
Nvyuu pnaa1,e9ueI Sdyuyi9ecdn9
Rudolfo Goetz-Blohm
Senior
Physics
“No. I’m not into that politics 
stuff. ”
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Melton’s Student Newspaper 
Since 1906
Ed.-in-Chief ...Kenneth J. Kraemer 
Managing Ed.. Andrew McDermott 
Business Manager.........Amit Kar
News Editor.........Becky A.Cowser
Forum Editor..................John Biggs
Sports Editor............Paul Boothe.
Features Editor..............Sharmila,
Venkatasubban
Diversions Editor.............Ena Khan;
CalendarEd.............KevinAuYoung1
Dossier Dsgn. Eds.Laura Varrachi 1
.....................Paulina Berczynski ;
Dossier Lit. Ed.......Kevin Meehan
Art Co-Editor......Gabrien Symons i
Art Co-Editor....................Simona Lo
Photo Editor.....Jason Siegendorf
Production Mgr. Elizabeth Neuman
Advertising Mgr......Chintan Shah
Systems Manager.............1-Ping Li
Copy Manager........Winter Mason
Asst. News Editor.... Chris Cannon 
Asst. Features Editor ...Julee White
Asst. Diversions Ed..........Jay Miolla
Asst. Sports Ed.......Dawn Papuga
Asst. Forum Editor... Jenny Garcia 
de Osuna
Asst. Production Manager..William 
Holtz
Photo Staff Mgr.........Anthony Chao
Darkroom Manager.....Jim Snyder
Personnel Mgr............Eric Salzman
Contributing Editors 
Shannon Gibney, Matthew Solitro
Senior Staff Gil Alterovitz, Jason Andracki, Matt Ball, Susan Watson
Staffwriters Chris Adukaitis, Melissa Batt, Ellen Beldner, Steve Charnoubi, Matt Cuccaro, Ryan Donovan, Dave Elman, Rebecca Fribush, Chuck Fryman, Dan Goldwasser, Tom Harper, Adam Klivans, Alex Lewin, Trevor Meyerowitz, Dizzy Murphy, Tracy 
Odell, Jon Orris, Danielle Pierratti, Anne . Ray, Dan Rosenberg, Jaya Saxena, Andrew Seymour, Ronak Singhal, Amanda Spear, Nathan- Steinweld, James Stepanek, Jessica Strelitz, Meena Vagnier, Andrew Wang, Susan Watson, Bradley Zimmerman
ComicsNick Casciato, Akira Hasegawa, Hiromi Hasegawa, Jack Liu, David Wingrove, David White
PhotoDiana Bartolotta, Anukul Kapoor, Barry Langer, Maciej Matyjas, Lisette Miller-Dixon, Gustavo Sganzerla
Darkroom Ava Bal, Eva Bai, Amy Cristomo, Elias Fallon, Scott Hess, Colleen Man­ning, Paul Moore
Production Kevin Babbitt, Steven Chai, Jennifer Li, Izzit Raheem, Diana Rutherford, Alison Scudiere, Craig Soules
CopyMimi Cheng, Helena McGahagan, Victor Ortega, Reena Singhal
Business Michael Averbuch, GauravDudhoria, Patricia DiGiuseppi, Chris Hong, Stephen Hsu, Avinash Jain, Amit Sheth
Junior Staff Neil Babra, Rhonda Gillespie, Pratish • 
Haladay, Eric Holowka, Will Isenhour,. Ken Kwalik, Masha Kovarsky, Tom Lin, Diado Mack, Jessica Rhodes, Ja­
son Scharfman, Julie Wilson
Vol Vumeu9 ra udn auCMnIu InUacecn9 
yw 0e9Inirn gnllyI 6Ir8n9arubB fu ra e ! 
Unn•lb InUacecn9 cChlradnM hb auCL
MnIua MC9rIi udn well eIM ac9rIi anL
onaun9ak eu Iy vyauuy onohn9a yw udn 
6Ir8n9arub vyooCIrubB fu ra c9rIunM hb 
2naun9I SnIIabl8eIre S9rIurIik fIvB 
NChav9rcuryIa e9n e8erlehln wy9 udnR 
anonaun9 y9 eveMnorv bne9B ,dn edi­
torials eccne9rIi eu udn hnirIIrIi yw 
udn ycrIryI anvuryI e9n udn ywwrvrel 
ycrIryI yw The Tartan nMruy9rel hye9MB 
Columns eIM political cartoons e9n 
udn ycrIryIa yw rIMr8rMCel v9neuy9aB 
The Tartan 9nan98na udn 9ridu uy 9nJnvu 
y9 vyIMnIan eIb vylCoI y9 cylrurvel 
ve9uyyIB Letters to the Editor e9n 
ycrIryIa yw eCudy9a Udy e9n CaCellbk 
hCu Iyu Invnaae9rlbk onohn9a yw udn 
6Ir8n9arubvyooCIrubB V lnuun9 rIunIMnM 
wy9 cChlrveuryI oCau hn ariInM eIM 
rIvlCMn udn U9run9Ra eMM9naa eIM cdyIn 
ICohn9 wy9 8n9rwrveuryIB Eeona oebx 
hn UruddnlM CcyI 9n5CnauB The Tartan 
9n5Cnaua udeu lnuun9a hn Iy lyIin9 udeI 
3WW Uy9MaB The Tartan 9nan98na udn 
9ridu uy vyIMnIan y9 9nJnvu eIb lnuun9B 
0ycb9ridu . GTTA hb The Tartan. The 
Tartan nMruy9rel hye9M 9nan98na udn 
9ridu uy UruddylM w9yo cChlrveuryI eIb 
vycb ru Mnnoa CIwru wy9 cChlrveuryIB 
Fwwrvnx 6Ir8n9arub 0nIun9 jyyo PG/ 
SdyInx /GH1HA4­HGGG 
gerlrIi eMM9naax ,dn ,e9ueI1sy" G-1 
0e9Inirn gnllyI 6Ir8n9arub1SruuahC9idk 
SV G3HGP­P4TW
'CIMnM rI ce9u hb byC9 Vvur8rurna 'nnB 
Vll 9ridua 9nan98nMB
Drh9e9b yw 0yIi9naa fNNE Kx W4TW­ 
PGW-B
The Tartan ra e onohn9 
yw udn VaayvreunM S9naaB

---------------------------------------------------

39th United States 
Air Force Academy Assembly 
Topic: “China-U.S. Relations in the 21st Century” 
18-21 February 1997
H&SS will sponsor one H&SS undergraduate student as the 
CMU delegate to attend the 39th U.S. Air Force Academy Assem­
bly, February 18-21,1997, on the Academy’s Colorado campus.
In the Assembly, students lean about a policy topic through 
interaction with government officials, educators, business 
people, and other students from around the country. A ski trip is 
also included. Transportation, housing, and meal expenses will 
be provided.
Eligibility: for H&SS undergraduate students; any major, any 
year; no ROTC affiliation required.
To apply: Submit a 1-2 page essay describing your interest in 
the Assembly topic, plus your ability to represent CMU effec­
tively in deliberations. Include a resume, and two letters of rec­
ommendation from faculty. Application deadline: December 2. 
1996. Submit applications to: Dr. Joseph Devine, Associate Dean 
of H&SS, c/o H&SS Academic Advisory Center, Baker Hall 161.
you would
Macintosh.
More affordable than ever. 
With low student prices on Macintosh' 
computers, you can start doing whatever 
it is you want to do. And to make it even 
easier for you to purchase a Mac,' apply 
for the Apple' Computer Loan. So you can 
take home a Mac, and you won't have to 
make a payment for 90 days* How do 
you get started? Just visit your campus 
computer store today and pick up a Mac.
Leave .your mark.
4740 BAUM BLVD. 
Open 7 days a week 
Sun - Thurs 
11 am - 2 am 
Fri & Sat
11 am - 3 am
PIZZA 
OUTLET
WE DELIVER GREAT TASTE 
TO YOUR DOOR
Oakland/ CMU
687-9555
WE ACCEPT CAMPUS 
EXPRESS AND 
DINE EXPRESS
shimmy l'J, 1997. Nojxiynienl of intensi or principal inill be nqûjnd.for 90 tliiys. Intensi occruing dtiring Ihis 90-thry periati wHl be addai io Ibe principal anduill bear interest, ubici tali he indlutiti in Ibe n/umail sdami Bar èuwiptc, tbe inoiitb of Qctober 19% badan intensi rute of 12.15% tvilb un Annua! Percentage Hate (APR) of 1333%. A monlbly póymenl of $32.86far Ibe PouvrMuc' $260system i< un estimile basai on u total lotin amounl of $1,913-83. ubid induites a samptepurdaseprice of $1,799ami a (i% loan annulation fee. Interest is variable 'basiti un ibe Mme Itale as reportai rTT Ibe 5tb business ila)' of tbe montb in Thétihll StiMjotirnaJ, plus a sprvad of3-9%. Montbfypaymenl ami APR sbown assumes deferment of principal and does noi include stale or local sales Ita. Tbe Apple Computer Imi bat an 8-)àir loan terni irilb no prepayment penalty and is subjeci lo credit approvai Monlbly pa)menls mny ttiry deperitimi’ on adual computer syslem prias, lutai loan umounls, siate timi local sales luxes unti a chance in tbe monlbly itiriable interesl rate. ©1996Apple Com/iuter. Inc. AII r^bts resenvd. Apple, ibe Apple loao, Mac and Macintosh are nxistentl Inidemurks of Apple Com/mler, Inc. I\xtvr Mac ita tmilemark ofApple (mipiiler, Inc AII Madnlosb aimputers are designai lo be accessible lo intlividuals witb disability. Tb ¡cani more (US only), cali 800-600-7808 or IT' 800-755-0601.
Highlander Cafe Presents 
Eat'N Park Day!!!
Join us on Tuesday Novem­
ber 19,1996 for a day of 
food & fun sponsored by 
Pittsburgh's favorite restau­
rant. Smiley cookies, 
grilled stickies & super 
burgers are some of the 
many items that will be fea­
tured at 7:30 A.M. till 7:15 
RM. Come early, late or all 
day, but don't miss it!!!

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 18 November 19969
NHL teams gamble with big-name trades
lk-
On Net
by Jessica Strelitz 
& Chris Adukaitis
What NHL 
season is com­
plete without 
the multitude 
of transactions 
that build 
teams up and 
tear them down 
en route to Lord 
Stanley? Every 
season, fans 
tingle with ex­
citement upon hearing rumors of a superstar 
Reading for their town. Or they cringe with 
^ear if one of their own is moving on to greener 
pastures. Whatever the situation, general 
inanagers are no longer content with building 
Itheir teams from the bottom up. Nowadays, 
you assemble a championship team with clever 
trades and smart signings.
I In this year’s first mega-deal, Detroit sent 
defenseman Paul Coffey and center Keith 
Primeau to Hartford for winger Brendan 
Shanahan. Detroit has been the big winner in 
this one, so far. In sixteen games, Shanahan 
has six goals and five assists. Meanwhile, 
Coffey is still the subject of trade rumors and 
only has two points this season. And Primeau 
still has not lived up to the level he showed two 
years ago. Shanahan should continue to con­
tribute to the Wings’ Cup drive. Maybe the 
Whalers can save face and get someone decent 
for Coffey.
The Dallas Stars and the Pittsburgh Pen­
guins swapped defensemen in the off-season, 
and each team filled a large hole in their 
Jineup. The Pens may finally have a big, in- 
your-face, stay-at-home blue-liner who can 
clear out the crease. The Stars picked up 
Sergei Zubov, a speedy, offensive-minded Eu­
ropean defenseman, who can also quarterback 
¡the powerplay.
! Dallas picked up another key player in fiery 
winger, Pat Verbeek. Verbeek is a tough, 
scrappy player, not afraid to go into the cor­
ners or mix it up with anyone. He also has a 
Jmack for finding the back of the net. A big 
jpart of the Rangers’ Stanley Cup team in 1994, 
Verbeek adds leadership and playoff experi­
ence. He should make a big impact on his 
new team.
A big off-season move was the Great One’s 
arrival in the Big City, New York. Reunited 
with his former teammate, Mark Messier, 
there were high expectations going into the 
season for both the Rangers and Gretzky. So 
far, Gretzky has produced, beginning the sea­
son with a fifteen-game scoring streak. The 
Rangers are faring well, third in the Atlantic, 
but are below .500. Overall, a very good move 
by the Rangers to pick up Gretzky for free.
Mike Keenan has decimated the St. Louis 
Blues. Brett Hull is the only player remain­
ing from the club Keenan took over three 
years ago. After a score of stupid moves, 
“Iron Mike” may finally have done some­
thing good for a change. This week, under­
achieving Pierre Turgeon arrived in the gate­
way to the west. Hull finally has the set-up 
man that he has been missing since Adam 
Oates left town. Hull had his two 80-goal 
seasons when Mr. Oates was in town. Hull is 
still relatively young and he has showed that 
he has not lost a step this summer 
in the World Cup. Look for this 
combo to lead the Blues into the 
playoffs. If Keenan doesn’t 
shake up his roster some more, 
that’s as far as they will get.
The Bruins lost 
Craig Billington on 
waivers. He ended up 
in Colorado where he 
is playing admirable 
back-up for the Ava­
lanche. This won’t 
be really worrisome 
until he shuts the 
Bruins out or,
NroyIe Lo/Tartan Art Co-Editor
if the Bruins back-up, Scotty Bailey, suddenly 
starts winning games (he has no wins this 
season). Starting Bruins goalie, Bill Ranford, is 
old and not known for longevity. There is a 
reason why Blain Lacher is in Providence and 
the Bruins went through four different starting 
goaltenders last year; they have no patience 
with the talent they do have. They should have 
held veteran Billington and kept Bailey warm­
ing up for a while longer in the minors.
The Senators can’t possibly lose any more 
players, especially young players. But the 
trade that sent Senator Jean-Yves Roy to 
the Bruins came back to haunt the Sens last 
week when Roy scored the game-winner 
against his former team. This win further 
extended the Bruins lifetime unbeaten streak 
over the Sens.
There are some trades in the works that 
would definitely not be beneficial to the team 
trying to push them through. Rumor has it 
that the Canucks are thinking of breaking up 
the pair of Mogilny and Bure. If Vancouver 
trades Mogilny, the burden of the whole team 
is going to lay on Pavel’s back.
Hold-out Penguin Bryan Smolinski, cur­
rently playing in the IHL, is supposedly 
going to be traded for Blackhawks Eric 
Weinrich. The Pens should just suck it up 
and sign Smoke, they need the youth. 
Weinrich would just be another guy 
on the team of old players and BDD 
(Big Dumb Defensemen).
Weinrich is also the subject of trade 
rumors with Philly. Bob Clarke is will­
ing to part with Kevin Haller for Weinrich, 
straight up. A dumb move for the Broad 
Street Bully. Haller is a young, solid 
defensemen who could develop into some­
thing more, given the time. Clarke, like all 
GM’s, needs to acquire some patience and 
let his young players mature.
Jessica Strelitz rejoiced over Adam Oates’s 
OT goal on Thursday night that won the 
game for the Bruins over the Pens, 2-1. She 
hopes to God that now the B’s won’t trade 
him. Chris Adukaitis is a senior ECE whose 
only wish is to play some “O. ”
ODOTMMfflODGMLS
ADMINISTRATION
Intramural Director — Mike 
Mastroianni X8-2214; Assistant In­
tramural Director—Mike Grzywinski 
X8-2938; IM Secretary — Michelle 
Matta X8-2053; IM President—Matt 
Williams 621-8987; IM Women's 
President — Pia Soriano 681-1031
IMPORTANT DATES
Monday — Three-person volleyball 
begins.
December 2 — Three-person play­
offs begin.
December 3 — IM board meeting at 
11:45 am in the gym conference room.
SIX-PERSON VOLLEYBALL
The finals were held this past Thurs­
day — the champions were Todd's 
Team (Majors), TSA Team B (Inter­
mediate), Team Lego (Minors), and 
Pioneers Slam (Womens).
WATER POLO
Playoffs are underway. Semifinals 
will take place tomorrow at 9 pm and
10 pm. The finals will take place on 
Thursday with the times to be an­
nounced. All games are played at the 
University Center pool.
SOCCER
Playoffs began yesterday at the 
Stadium and Intramural fields and 
will continue through this Sunday. If 
games are cancelled due to inclem­
ent weather, teams are reminded to 
call the IM office by noon for the 
makeup time.
Mondays Games (Minors)
Pioneers vs. Chani’s Boys 4:30 pm 
SAE vs. Team MSE 5:30 pm 
69er’s vs. Beta Dancy Mem. 7:30 pm 
Siam vs. Slackers 7:30 pm 
PKT Chaos vs. MinorThreat 9:30 pm
FOOSBALL
Playoffs in both majors and minors 
are under way. The intermediate 
teams are reminded to turn their 
scores into the Intramural office by 
noon Tuesday.
BOWLING
Matches are being played at the 
Pittsburgh Athletics Association on 
Fifth Avenue in Oakland. Matches 
will’be bowled on Sundays through 
the first week of December. Please 
report all scores to the office no later 
than Tuesday at noon.
RACQUETBALL, DARTS, 
and TABLE TENNIS
Schedules are outand available in the 
IM office. Please play as scheduled and 
report scores to the IM office.
SOCCER RANKINGS
MAJORS
1. SAE
2. REAL MELLON
INTERMEDIATE
1. PKT BRAZIL
2. BETA PELE
3. DU MIGHTY MAMAUS
4. SAE
MINORS
1. HAIRY SOAPDISH
2. WATSON’S WANNABES 
3.SUDSUCKERS
4. CHANI’S BOYS
5. BETA DANCY MEMORIAL
WATER POLO RANKINGS
1. DU
2. SAE
3. PIONEERS
4. PKT SQUARES
Submitted by 
MIKE GRZYWINSKI
CMU basketball teams 
prepare for new season
BASKETBALL, from page 11
a crop of talented freshman in the 
paint, including Samantha 
Majemik, who Seidl says is “very 
solid in basic skills, runs the floor 
¡well,” Sarah Drum, who Seidl 
¡describes as extremely athletic, 
land Kara Coval, who Seidl says 
!has a “solid shot.” 
i Seidl feels that this team has 
had a great start so far this year, 
frheir practices have been com­
petitive, and she feels that this 
team is going to be team-geared 
rather than individually oriented. 
The men’s basketball team also 
has an extremely bright outlook 
for the upcoming 1996-1997 sea­
son. Despite the loss of seven se­
niors and a preseason ranking of 
seven in the UAA coaches pre­
season poll, coach Tony Wingen 
feels that this team can compete 
among the elite of the UAA. He 
says that this is a team with tal­
ent and depth, and that there is 
¡“team toughness that we haven’t 
¡had a lot of in the past.”
; Perhaps the strongest feature 
¡of this year’s team is its backcourt. 
Starting at point guard will be 
¡junior LaD ale Widmeyer. Wingen 
describes Widmeyer as an asser­
tive, vocal leader who has solid 
skills in the backcourt. His 
backcourt partner will be senior 
captain Rich Bodnar. Wingen 
feels that Bodnar is the go-to guy 
on the team. “We’re looking for a 
big year from him,” said Wingen. 
Last season, Bodnar averaged 
10.8 points per game, and led the 
team in steals (70) and assists 
(30). In addition to his impressive 
statistics, he has been an excellent 
emotional leader as team captain 
for the past two years.
Along with the starting 
backcourt, there are many other 
players that will make contribu­
tions in the backcourt. Senior
Kevin Cackovic and sophomore 
Tommy Praesel will both see time 
at point guard. Cackovic is a 
strong three-point shooter whose 
6'5" frame will cause problems 
for opponents, and Praesel, a 
transfer from West Point, has an 
excellent outside shot and sets 
his teammates up well. Three 
other shooting guards look to help 
out the Tartan backcourt. Jun­
iors Omar Antigua and Jason 
Traynor led the JV team the past 
two years, and sophomore Scott 
Mills steps in after sitting out his 
freshmanyear. Wingen said “[The 
three shooting guards] have all 
shown us good things in early 
games and practices.”
In the frontcourt, the Tartans 
combine athletic forwards with 
strong centers. Junior Andy Sofish 
has shown excellent rebounding 
and leadership qualities. Sopho­
more Chris Butsko, despite a knee 
injury last year, is an outstanding 
athlete and perhaps the best leaper 
on the team.
Junior Colin Shaunnessey gives 
the team an emotional lift. At cen­
ter, the Tartans have two 6'9" play­
ers in senior Gary Trendal and 
sophomore Dan Bowersox. If 
Trendal can stay healthy, he could 
have a breakout year as a senior. 
Bowersox is “the most improved 
player in the program,” said 
Wingen.
The CMU men’s basketball 
team, despite some key losses, 
appears to be on the rise this 
year. The CMU Preseason Bas­
ketball Guide states high opti­
mism for this year’s team by say­
ing “In fact, the general feeling in 
the Carnegie Mellon camp is that 
the 1996-1997 has the potential 
to be the most successful season 
since 1976-1977 when the Tar­
tans advanced to the NCAA Divi­
sion III Tournament.”
Fundamce Hockey
For informati'83 after 6 pm.
To Darwin, Evolution Was A Theory ;
To Sybase, It's Our Philosophy.
In just 12 years,Sybase has evolved into a major player 
in the software/services industry, and is now the 6th largest 
independent software company in the world. You can call it 
survival of the fittest if you want, but this is no textbook case 
of evolution. We like to think of it as a phenomenal concept 
that was designed to meet our customers' evolving needs and 
keep them ahead of the competition.
CS, Engineering or IS majors planning a future as 
ASSOCIATE CONSULTANTS should attend our:
- INFORMATION SESSION ¦
Monday, Nov. 18 ¦ 7pm - 9pm 
Student Center Building ¦ Room 242
ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
Tuesday, Nov. 19
Contact the Career Center
Forward your resume to:
¦ E-mail: college@sybase.com
¦ FAX: (510) 922-8002
¦ Mail: University Relations, 
Sybase, Inc.
6425 Christie Ave., 5th FI., 
Emeryville CA 94608.
Sylxvic is mi L'qiutl uppunitiuty dm/iluycr tluit values the soviijji/i diversity Ininas tu che ivurkpUicc.
asa
http:llwww.sybase.com/careers/college

---------------------------------------------------

10The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 18 November 1996
Rookies impact NBA season
The Alley Oop
by Chris Cannon
’¦ It seems like you can’t be a 
¦star in college anymore without 
‘being called “the next Michael 
^Jordan.” Similarly, you can’t 
Tiave an NBA draft anymore 
"without harping back to 
-Jordan’s draft year, 1984, 
-riwhich saw the likes of first 
¿pick Hakeem Olajuwon, 
¿Charles Barkley (5), and John 
uStockton (16) come into the 
^league along with his Airness 
"<:who was the third selection).
This year is no exception. 
‘While the first selection in 
Jthe draft, Allen Iverson, al­
ready has dibs on the Rookie 
of the Year honor (a.k.a. “the 
next Michael Jordan” award), 
he also spearheads a class of
• guards that will turn up the 
heat in the backcourt. Pack­
aging high flying dunks and 
high arcing jumpers, Ray 
Allen (5) and his 13 points per 
game is the player Milwau­
kee was looking for when they 
•got Shawn Respert in last 
'year’s draft.
Injuries have kept Stephon 
-Marbury (4) from scoring his 
sfirst NBA point, but he will be 
"the spark that ignites 
^Minnesota’s volatile forward 
'’combination of Kevin Garnet 
'and Tom Gugliotta.
Xr Kerry Kittles (8) has been 
riding the pine in New Jersey, 
'but scored 21 points against 
'Washington in his first start as 
“jDoint guard.
Perhaps the draft’s most tal- 
fented player, Kobe Bryant (13), 
hasn’t played a third of a game
yet, but shewed promise in the 
pre-season. The Kobe is the 
youngest to ever play in the NBA 
and the shortest to try the jump 
straight from high school. A few 
years from now, critics will call 
him the best acquisition Los An­
geles made during the summer 
of’96.
Yet another in the rookie 
vanguard is Phoenix’s Steve 
Nash (15). Scraping for play­
ing-time, Nash recently ex­
ploded against Vancouver for
Simona Lo/Tartan Art
17 points and 12 assists.
But a few good guards is noth­
ing to shout about. What makes 
this year’s crop so extraordi­
nary is that the forwards play 
like guards too.
Marcus Camby, a 6'11" sec­
ond overall pick, is averaging 
15 points a game and has re­
cently been scorching teams 
with his ballhandling skills — 
including burning the Knicks 
for 29 points.
Another undersized and 
overtalented bigman, Shareef 
Abdur-Rahim (3), is even more 
slippery than Camby. He has 
the steepest learning curve of 
any of the top ten selections, 
but Vancouver has time to wait.
In Boston, some have been 
comparing Antoine Walker (6) 
to another big man with skills, 
Magic Johnson. While 
he’s not the floor-gen- 
eral Magic was, Walker 
has more speed and 
dunk to him, and the 
Celtics talk of using him 
in the backcourt.
The New York Knicks’ 
John Wallace (18) is 
simply the steal of the 
draft. He averages al­
most 10 points off the 
bench and with the de­
parture of Anthony Ma­
son, he could be their 
key defender against big 
guards such as Jordan.
It’s Iverson, though, 
that turns the group 
from an extraordinary 
draft into an unbeliev­
able one. Averaging22.8 
in just 36 minutes a 
game, there is no one in 
the league that can 
match his quickness. He 
was headed towards his 
first triple double before 
separating his shoulder 
last week. When his 
Co-Editor turnovers decrease, look 
out world.
My advice to fans who haven’t 
seen much action this year: watch 
some rookies and don’t blink.
Chris Cannon is a junior com­
puter science major and Assis­
tant News Editor of The Tartan.
He likes chocolate chip cookie 
dough ice cream.
Hall honors football greats
4th and 26th
by Steve Charnoubi
There’s a little city about two 
hours west of Pittsburgh called 
Canton. Every year, NFL fans 
from all over the continent make 
a pilgrimage to Canton to visit 
the Pro Football Hall of Fame. 
Designed to satisfy the interests 
of fans of every age and every 
pro-football loyalty, the Hall 
serves as a display honoring the 
greats of the pro-football world.
In the 1920s, Canton was the 
home of the Bulldogs, one of the 
original teams to play in the 
NFL. The Canton Bulldogs were 
an early-day pro-football power, 
even before the days of the NFL. 
They were the NFL champions 
in 1922 and 1923. The great Jim 
Thorpe, the first big- 
name athlete to play 
pro football, played 
his first game with 
the Bulldogs, 
starting in 1915.
Today, a seven- 
foot bronze statue 
of Jim Thorpe greets 
visitors as they enter the Hall. 
Inside, you will find two galler­
ies housing the bronze busts of 
each of the 185 Hall of Fame 
enshrinees. The complexis made 
up of five buildings, including 
the newly built GameDay Sta­
dium rotating theater, which 
takes viewers into the locker 
room during the final minutes 
before a game, and then onto the 
field for an intense, sensory ex­
perience that combines state-of- 
the-art sound, film and video to 
present “Football As You’ve 
Never Experienced It.”
Another major exhibition area 
included in the 83,000 square- 
foot Hall of Fame complex is the 
Exhibition Rotunda, where pro 
football’s first 100 years are 
chronicled. Immediately after 
the rotunda tour, the visitor will 
see the new Pro Football Today 
display, where histories of each 
of the 31 NFL teams (don’t for­
get the Browns are still a team) 
are presented in colorful, dra­
matic form.
Every year, on the day before 
the Super Bowl, a committee 
made up of sportswriters from 
every NFL city meets to elect a 
new class of enshrinees. The com­
mittee elects four to seven indi­
viduals, who have excelled on the 
field or contributed to the sport of 
football. Players must be retired 
for at least five years and coaches 
must be retired. Some enshrinees 
have waited around for over 50 
years before being elected, while 
others are enshrined as soon as 
they are eligible.
Greats like Jerry Rice, Dan 
Marino, Emmitt Smith, and 
Reggie White will find their own 
niche in the hall someday, and
Don Shula, who retired as tl 
winningest coach in NFL history 
after 34 seasons of coaching, 
the top candidate for this year’s 
election. Even executives g6| 
elected into the Hall of Fame, as 
A1 Davis did in 1992.
The huge induction ceremony 
held outside the Hall of Fame has 
always been the herald for 
beginning of a new NFL season. 
The Pro Football Hall of Fame is 
a place where the football heroes 
of our time are immortalized and 
where fans of all ages can conVe 
and experience the NFL.
Games of the Week:
San Francisco at Washing, 
ton: These two teams started out 
well but have been struggling 
lately. The winner of this match­
up will earn a playoff spot.
Pittsburgh at Miami: Can 
Jimmy Johnson find a way 
stop the red-hot Steelers? My 
sources say no.
Shame of the Week:
New Orleans at Tampa Bay; 
The ’Aints and the Yuckaneers 
will battle for the higher draf 
pick in what is sure to be a dis 
play of poorly executed football.
Steve Charnoubi was recently 
asked to join the Pro Football 
Hall of Fame Selection Commit­
tee, but he refused fearing that 
he himself would become 
ineligible as a future 
nominee.
VLSI
Technology
Right now, VLSI Engineers are creating technology solutions for real world challenges...
VLSI Technology is a leading designer and manufacturer of application-specific integrated 
circuits (ASICs) and application-specific standard products (ASSPs) in the consumer digital 
entertainment, communications, and computing markets. 
From multimedia computers and set-top boxes to digital video and virtual reality games, to 
wireless and network communications and encryption tools, innovations from VLSI will make 
tomorrow's systems a reality. 
You could be on the cutting edge of technology In the DYNAMIC environment of VLSI. 
We'll be on campus to interview for opportunities in Engineering on
Monday, February 3, 1997
BS/MS Electrical & Computer Engineering, and Computer Science majors, stop by the Career 
Center NOWXo submit resumes and for more detailed information about our opportunities!
________________________________________________________________________________________________________ EOE.M/F/D/V,

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 18 November 199611
Swimmers compete against Case, EmoryBasketball teams prepare for season
3y KEVIN KROEN
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
“go-to player.” Rather she states that there 
is a large group of talented players to choose 
from. Key players include Marcelle Steele, a 
The men’s and women’s basketball teams junior point guard who has a “very nice pull- 
have been preparing for the beginning of this up jumper off penetration” according to Seidl.
year;; seasons on November 22. Onthatweek- Backing her up will be freshman guard Lacey
end, the women will host the annual 
CMU Tip-off Tourney, competing 
against Mount Union College, Wash­
ington & Lee College, and Thiel Col­
lege. The men’s team will hit the road 
kick off their season at the West 
penn Classic, playing Washington & 
Jefferson College, Grove City College, 
and Allegheny College.
The women’s basketball team looks 
like it will be on the upswing this year 
as a crop of experienced players com­
bined with a large recruiting class hit 
the hardwood. The Tartan team was 
ranked eighth in the UAA coaches’s 
preseason rankings, and coach Gerri 
Seidl wants to “prove them wrong.” 
This year’s team has a deep bench, as 
10 freshmen join the team. In refer­
ring to the poll, Seidl said, “They don’t 
know the freshman we brought in.”
On the perimeter, Seidl defines no
,e9ueI 'rln Sdyuy
Senior Rich Bodnar scored over 300 points last season.
Peretta. The two other starters on the pe­
rimeter will be seniors Penny Davis and 
Kelly Gaitens, who Seidl describes as hav­
ing a nice three-point shot. Other perimeter 
players that Seidl is looking at to make a 
contribution to the team are freshman Kristy 
Thomas, junior Jackie Autieri, sopho­
more Lindsay Smith, junior Jessica 
Connolly, and freshman Sherry 
Cribbins.
Power in the paint may be the stron­
gest aspect of the team. Senior power 
forward Kristen Kupfer has been an 
All-Association player for the past 
three years. Seidl said, “She has been 
our go-to player for three years.” At 
center, the Tartans look to junior Katie 
O’Leary, a defensive specialist, to pro­
vide strength in the paint. Seidl said, 
“She is the least acknowledged player 
because she gets the work done that 
the team needs.” Also, at power for­
ward, senior Rebecca McCadeny will 
provide strength for the Tartans. “She 
beats the crap out of everybody at 
practice. When she boxes out, people 
fly,” said Seidl. The Tartans also have 
Please see BASKETBALL, page 9
Hockey embarasses Slippery Rock University, 9-2
HOCKEY, from page 12
front. The defenseman was trying 
to keep the puck in front of the net, 
but when Ivanovic sent it towards 
him, Voulgaris popped the puck in 
the net. Minutes later, Fitzgerald 
again had the assist on a first-line 
rush. Buck, with his own rebound, 
saw that the goalie was not cover­
ing the puck and poked it in off of 
the goaltender’s glove.
SRU scored two quick goals to 
end the period, one that CMU 
goaltender Jon Kliegman never 
saw coming because of the SRU 
screen. Kliegman was playing out 
the entire game, acting as a third 
defenseman in some instances. 
Those two goals would be the only 
allowed by him in the game.
The rest of the game was all 
CMU. The fans cheered wildly as 
the underdogs went on to score six 
unanswered goals, five in the sec­
ond alone. The first one came when 
CMU was shorthanded, from
Campo moving the puck down the 
far boards on a Fitzgerald pass. 
He scooped the puck under the 
goaltender and it sailed into the 
net. Five minutes later, now on 
the power play, Adukaitis scored 
his second goal of the night, from 
Voulgaris and Buck, the puck go­
ing five-hole. The second line fol­
lowed suit by scoring a few min­
utes later, on the power play again, 
with Anthony Paul scoring on the 
feed from Jander and Campo. A 
scrum in front of the net had left the 
goalie disoriented, making it easy 
for Paul to slip the puck past him.
The explosive period continued, 
and with three minutes left, hats 
sailed out onto the ice in celebra­
tion ofAdukaitis’s third goal of the 
game. He was assisted by Buck 
and Mitzel. “I got really good feeds 
and screens for goals two and 
three,” said Adukaitis.
The period ended with Buck’s 
second goal, his second two-goal
game of the weekend. On a 
breakaway, Buck found the back 
of the net by shooting from the top 
of the circle between the goalie’s 
legs. The period ended 8-2.
The third period was more of the 
same quality hockey. Short- 
handed, Adukaitis scored his 
fourth goal to tremendous ap­
plause. On the feed from Paul, 
with no angle to work with once 
again, he backhanded the shot off 
the post and it went in the upper 
left to seal SRU’s fate. “Anthony 
worked hard for my fourth goal, I 
really didn’t do much,” Adukaitis 
said. “Steve [Leonhart] played 
another good game as he has been 
for several weeks. P.J. [Gryzwacz] 
played a good game at defense and 
the entire defense stepped it up 
with two goals. Six if you count 
mine. We embarrassed them, it 
was nice. They were surprised.”
The team was very pleased with 
their play Saturday night. “The
team really picked it up tonight 
and was extremely spirited. It’s 
great when you have that much 
fun out there!” said Buck.
Campo said, “This was definitely 
a huge win for us against a good 
team. We really needed this game 
to remain in contention. Every­
body played a solid game tonight. 
The most important thingthe team 
can take away from tonight’s vic­
tory is noticing the potential we 
have when we put our minds to it. 
If we remain mentally focused, 
tonight proved that we can keep 
with any team in the league.”
Before CMU played IUP on Sun­
day, November 17, their record 
stood at 4-4-1 overall. In their 
final game of the semester, they 
host Pitt this Saturday.
By ELLEN BELDNER
Tartan Staffwriter
Swimming, as members of the 
CMU swim team will tell you, 
takes a lot of work. But the swim­
mers’ work is paying off this 
season so far: after a November 
16 double dual meet against 
Case Western Reserve Univer­
sity and Emory University, the 
women’s team stands at 2-3 and 
the men’s team is holding a stel­
lar 5-0 record.
The women’s team had a tough 
meet, falling to Case Western 
with a close 152-139 score and 
to NCAA powerhouse Emory 
Unversity with a 165-122 score. 
Notably, sophomore diver Dawn 
Papuga won the three-meter div­
ing over Case.
Diving, which is counted as an 
event the way each swimming 
race is, is new to CMU this year 
as a varsity sport. “The divers 
were instrumental in the meet,” 
said head coach David Belowich.
Although the women’s team 
lost its two meets, Belowich was 
nonetheless impressed by the 
team’s performance. “We had a 
good meet,”
Belowich said. “It came down 
to the last relay against Case 
Western,” he said of the Emory 
meet. “Emory finished second in 
the conference last year. They 
were a new addition to the meet 
[which originally was supposed 
to be only against Case West­
ern], and considering that, we 
did very well.”
The men’s team had no diffi­
culty defeating Case Western, 
winning with a 218-77 score. The 
Emory meet, like the November 
7 meet against Indiana Univer­
sity of Pennsylvania, was a close 
match. The meet came down to 
the last event — the 200-yard
freestyle relay—which the CMU 
men won, leaving the final score 
at 144-143. The relay team 
composed of senior captain 
Chris O’Rourke, junior Mike 
Foster, senior captain Tony 
Rippy, and junior Jake 
McGuire won the race in 1:28.0. 
Sophomore men’s diver Sean 
Malloy won diving over both 
Case Western and Emory, con­
tributing to the men’s pair of 
victories. “The team [members 
are] starting to believe in each 
other,” said Belowich. “Every­
one is doing quite well. We’v.e 
had interesting stuff happe.n 
all the way through — at each 
meet we’ve been to. We’re 
learning how to race, how to 
compete, and the work that 
we’re putting in during prac­
tice is paying off.”
The dual meet also saw several 
other strong swims from the men’s 
team. McGuire won both the 100- 
and 200-yard freestyle events, 
while freshman Mike Robinson 
placed second in the 500-yard 
freestyle, 1000-yard freestyle, and 
200-yard individual medley. Ad­
ditionally, junior Jake Soboleff 
took a second place finish in the 
200-yard butterfly.
At a double dual meet, the 
three teams participating swim 
against each other simulta­
neously. Rather than each team 
having three swimmers or re­
lays competing in each event, 
each team has two entries. Tlje 
results from each event are tabu­
lated the way regular dual meets 
are scored: for each two-team 
combination, thè top swimmer 
from either school takes first 
place, and so on.
The swim teams next host 
Elizabethtown College this Sat­
urday, November 24, in the Uni­
versity Center pool at 1 pm.
classified
THE TARTAN 268-2111
JOBS
Wanted Chinese language instructor/ tutor. Knowledge of Mandarin with Shanghai accent desired. Graduate student preferred. Pittsburgh area. Call 885-5503 days.
Nanny for after school and occasional weekends(l 1/2 blocks from CMU) 20 hrs. per week. 4 children (11,9,9,5). Salary plus room and board. Will be flexible with the hrs for the right person. Starting January term, call 681-2828. Looking forward to meeting you!
LECTURE
Attention CMU Juniors: The Heinz School 3-1-1 Information Session. When: Thursday, November 21,1996. Time: 12:30-2:00. Where: Hamburg Hall (HBH) 1001. RSVP: X8-8949 or sdlz@andrew.cmu.edu. Bring your lunch. Light refreshments provided.
TRAVEL
Low student and faculty fares to international destinations. Good domestic fares, AYH and EURAIL passes. 9-5 M-F, 10-Noon Saturday. 4608 Winthrop Street, off South Craig. Forum Travel 681-4099.
Classified Rates
1—20 words...........$10.00/wk21-50 words...........$12.00/wk51—100 words........$15.00/wk
MAIL TOsThe Tartan, Boxl7 Carnegie Mellon University Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
¦Classifieds must be paid in cash cr check before first run date
•On-campus departments and organize- tions may pay by journal transfer
•Due by 5 pm the Thursday before publication
Thanksgiving & Spring Break Buses
Leaving from CMU to the airport 
for your convenience!
Thanksgiving Break 
Tuesday, November 26th
Buses Leave Every Hour on the Hour 
From Noon to Seven O'Clock
One-Way Tickets only $10!! 
Round Trip Tickets $16!!
Tickets Sold at the 
Student Center Info Desk 
and departure points.
SAVE MONEY going home for Thanksgiving 
and Spring Breaks. Ride A Phi O's
agite Loc
to NYC, DC, Baltimore, Cherry Hill, 
Philly, Harrisburg, Allentown, 
and King of Prussia.
Leave Tuesday, November 26th 
Return Sunday, December 1st
Tickets available at the 
Student Center Info Desk
Less than the cost of 
Greyhound!
(based on NY round trip cost)
APhiO office #268-2116
aphio+@andrew.cmu.edu
Learn how to make film, video, photography and 
digital images and receive college credit at CMU.
I Filmmaking I, II, II & IV • Video Production I & II • Acting for the Camera • : 
I Animation Basics • Drawing for Animation • Screenwriting • Introduction to f 
jj Digital • Digital Non-Linear Editing • Black & White Photography I & II • Color | 
Ì Photography I & II- Studio Lighting • Experimental Darkroom j
Register Now For Spring ‘97 Semester!
To Register, Call the College of Fine Arts Dean's Office -268 - 2348 :
For more information Call: 681-5449 
Pittsburgh Filmmakers' School of 
Film, Video and Photography
477 Melwood Avenue, North Oakland

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
Volume 91, Issue 11 The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 18 November 1995
Hockey squad crushes Edinboro, Slippery Rock
Cross country team ranks 
16th in National competition
By PAUL BOOTHE
Tartan Sports Editor
This weekend, members of 
the Tartan cross country 
teams traveled to Augustana 
College, Illinois to see how 
they placed among the nation’s 
top Division III runners at the 
NCAA Championships.
“I’ve had many good teams 
go [to Nationals],” said men’s 
coach Gary Meckley. “This 
team has lived up to its poten­
tial more than any other 
team.” The team ranked 16th 
out of the 21 teams which 
qualified for this competition.
Fifth-year senior Scott Moore 
led the Tartan runners, placing 
61st overall and completing the 
course in 25:53 — a personal 
best. Sophomore Josh Donner 
also had a personal-best run, 
coming in 68th place with a time 
of 26:02. Sophomore Kristo 
Kriechbaum (79th place, 26:10), 
freshman Kenn Oldham (85th 
place, 26:17), and senior Ron 
Polcawich (105th place, 26:39) 
rounded out the men’s scoring. 
Freshman Brian Meyer (114th 
place, 26:47) and senior Seb 
Ziesler (127th place, 27:07) also 
ran for the Tartans. “This team 
is made up of mostly freshmen 
and sophomores,” said Meckley.
“It was really an exceptional ef­
fort for them to finish where 
they did.”
The men’s team ran a strate­
gic race because this was the 
team’s first trip to Nationals. 
“We went out extremely conser­
vatively,” said Meckley, and af­
ter the first half mile the team 
was running in last place. But 
too many runners didn’t pace 
themselves and pushed them­
selves too hard at the beginning 
of the race. As the race wore on, 
the Tartans advanced from last 
place to 16th, and even put two 
runners ahead of the UAA 
Champion. Meckley also said 
that there was a strong wind 
blowing which made the race 
harder on the runners. The CMU 
men drafted behind other run­
ners, allowing them to block the 
wind, and passed them when 
the wind died down. “Most of 
them ran a pretty good tactical 
race,” said Meckley. “I’m satis­
fied with the results.” 
Kriechbaum said, “We figured 
that if we beat all the teams that 
we could, that [16th] is about 
where we’d finish.”
“It was a learning experience 
for the rest of the guys on the 
team,” said Polcawich. “The 
way its looking, we’ll be back 
next year no problem, in all
hopes.” He also said, “Scott 
Moore just ran incredible. He 
ran a great race.”
Sophomore Maureen 
McGranaghan also qualified to 
compete at the National compe­
tition as an individual. Her 29th 
place finish in 18:31 for the 5JC 
course earned her All-Ameri- 
can status. Women’s coach 
Dario Donatelli said, “She had 
the best race she’s ever run — 
her fastest time — and turned 
in All-American.” 
McGranaghan improved con­
siderably over her performance 
last year, where she finished 
63rd at this competition. She 
said, “I had a good starting posi­
tion and got out where I wanted 
to get out.” The start was 
crowded, but McGranaghan 
said that worked to her advan­
tage because it sheltered her 
from the strong wind. After the 
first mile, the pack spread out a 
little bit, allowing her to estab­
lish her position.
Overall, McGranaghan was 
pleased with the way the sea­
son went. She said, “We did re­
ally well for having such a young 
team.” She also said, “It was 
disappointing that the team 
didn’t make it [to Nationals]... 
the potential is there — should 
be no problem next year.”
Union defeats Tartans, squashes post-season football hopes
By JESSICA STRELITZ
Tartan Staffwriter
Sometimes a win isn’t as satisfying as it 
seems. Some wins are amazing. This week­
end, the Carnegie Mellon Hockey team 
played back-to-back games, one on the 
road against Edinboro Friday night 
in Erie and one at home Saturday 
night against Slippery Rock. They 
won both games soundly, slapping 
Edinboro 6-3 and destroying Slip­
pery Rock 9-2. But the team that 
played Friday after the three-hour 
drive to Erie, PA, was not the same 
team that turned around and in 24 
hours faced off against SRU at home.
The first game should have been a 
landslide, and the second game was 
supposed to be a toss-up.
Friday night’s game against 
Edinboro was slow and unsteady. The 
way the two teams were skating, they 
looked evenly matched. EUP took 
some early roughing penalties, in­
cluding one that kept their captain in 
the box for almost the entire first 
period. Senior winger Relja Ivanovic, 
on the man advantage, capitalized on 
the power-play with a break-away 
weave down the right side of the ice, 
ending his rush by stuffing the puck 
into the net under the goalie’s left 
side. Minutes later, EUP showed they 
were alive by sending the puck up on 
a long pass and scoring. CMU’s first 
line fought back, crashing the net a
few minutes later with senior Jim Buck 
controlling the rebound off one of his own 
shots and allowing junior assistant cap­
tain Scott Fitzgerald to score off the tip.
The Tartans finished the period in a 
flurry. With minutes left, rookie junior 
defenseman David Mitzel controlled the
,yIb 0dey1,e9ueI Sdyuy Nueww
Senior Chris Adukaitis controls the puck
puck in the defensive zone to send it to 
senior Anthony Paul. Paul then connected 
with Buck skating down the right side. 
Buck waited with the puck before he 
slapped it in, hugging the top left back of 
the net. But with a comfortable lead, the 
Tartans continued to relax. There was no 
forechecking, and defensive 
bobbles led to two quick 
breakaway goals by EUP in the 
last 30 seconds of the first period. 
The game was suddenly tied, 3-3.
It would be another period and 
a half before CMU would score 
again. The second period was 
much like the first. CMU outshot 
EUP 17-3 in the first and 11-4 in 
the second, yielding no goals in 
that period. The EUP goalie was 
lucky with the post and receiving 
shots into his body, but CMU was 
tied up in passing and the shots 
they were getting off were not too 
strong. Being tied with a team 
that had dropped a previous game 
to Penn State 25-3, was not en­
couraging either.
But with only one scoring line, 
EUP did not last against the big­
ger, better-skilled CMU offensive 
unit. Three CMU unanswered 
goals clinched the game in the 
third period. Sophomore forward 
Steve Leonhart, junior forward 
Derek Jander, and grad student 
geIein9 captain Blair Echols, led the de­
fensive attack that opened the
lane for scoring. Paul had the first goal, 
and scrambling in front with Buck and 
Fitzgerald, he flipped the puck into the 
net for the go-ahead 4-3. Minutes later, 
after serving a holding penalty, Echols 
skated into the play and knocked down 
the EUP goaltender, who had ventured 
far from the crease to try to handle the 
puck in the defensive zone. With the EUP 
squad enraged, the play resumed and the 
first line capitalized on the confusion with 
a feed from Fitzgerald to Paul to Buck. 
Buck got his own rebound and scored on 
the play for his second goal of the game. 
He remains CMU’s leading scorer. CMU 
rounded out the game the same way it 
began, with a beautiful break-away goal. 
After checking an EUP player into the 
CMU bench earlier in the period, Ivanovic 
finished the game with some fancy ma­
neuvering around the goalie, who had 
come out to challenge him. Ivanovic pick- 
pocketed him and rammed the puck in on 
the low, left-hand side of the net to end the 
game with a score of 6-3, CMU.
CMU had 45 total shots on goal, versus 
Edinboro’s 12. Goaltender Gil Min played 
his first full game and had nine saves in 
the win. “It isn’t shots that win a game,” 
coach Fred Maddalena reminded after­
wards, “It’s goals.” The Tartans knew 
they would have to play much harder the 
next night if they were to beat the hard­
hitting Slippery Rock team.
One of the beauties of hockey is how 
malleable a team is. Coach Maddalena 
changed the lines on Saturday night to
test some possibilities. He placed rookie 
P.J. Gryzwacz, who had been playing 
forward, on defense. He also took first line 
defenseman Chris Adukaitis and made 
him a forward with Buck and Fitzgerald. 
It was a gamble with a solid base. 
Adukaitis is a very offensive-minded for. 
ward with a handful of goals this semes* 
ter. Gryzwacz has played solid defensive 
forward game, but not been able to score. 
The end result? Adukaitis scored four 
Buck scored two, for six goals from that 
line alone, to blow out SRU 9-2.
CMU faced Slippery Rock three weeks 
ago and was tossed around. The SRU 
team was more physical and CMU’s pow­
erful play has been lacking this season. 
But not Saturday. “We played 10 times 
better tonight than we did last night. We 
played the way that we knew we could 
play all along and finally came together,” 
said Coach Maddalena.
CMU opened the game with three con­
secutive goals. For the first, Fitzgerald 
moved the puck up the ice on a call from 
Adukaitis, who took it to the net and shot 
from an impossible angle. It went in off 
the near post through a gap under the 
blocker. Play continued, defensively. The 
forechecking was superb from all three 
lines. Junior Bryan Campo commanded 
defensively, leading the D-men by hitting 
often and clean while keeping the puck 
out of their zone. With seven minutes left 
in the first, junior defenseman Paul 
Voulgaris found the net in a scramble in 
Please see HOCKEY, page 11
Soccer ends post-season play
By NATHAN STEINWALD
Tartan Staffwriter
Last Sunday, the men’s soccer 
team learned that their end-of- 
the-year push to move up in the 
rankings was a little shy of what 
was needed to make the NCAA 
championship tournament, but 
was enough to give them the No. 1 
ranking in the ECAC tournament. 
However, the team was knocked 
out of the tournament in the first 
round after a disappointing loss to 
the host team Frostburg.
The Tartans were unaccustomed 
to the poor field conditions, which 
made the game difficult from the 
start. CMU fell behind by one goal 
and found themselves digging to 
get out. With little more than seven 
minutes left, CMU was able to get 
the ball across the goal line and 
expected that to be good enough to 
tie the score. The 
referees did not 
see the goal, and 
Frostburg 
quickly cleared 
the ball out of 
the net. Frus­
trated with hav­
ing scored but 
receiving no 
credit, the team 
pushed even 
harder.
However, the 
increased of­
fense left a li­
ability on de- Tartan men
fense. Frostburg was able to score 
a fluke goal with three minutes 
left, and put the game out of reach 
for the Tartans.
“We’re disappointed that we lost 
in the tournament so early” said 
Captain Suraj Naik. Grove City 
was the other team to advance and 
the Tartans had already beaten 
Grove this year. Despite the early 
exitfrom the tournament, the team 
did improve a great deal over the 
course of the season.
With four freshman and four 
sophomores starting, this year was 
expected to be one of growth, not 
one for NCAA tournament con­
tention. Naik said “At the begin­
ning of the season we thought this 
would be a rebuilding year...We 
achieved more than we expected 
to.” With 10 wins, the team im­
proved over last year despite all of 
the new i
Freshmen provided solid play, 
sophomores took an increased level 
of responsibility, and juniors and 
seniors accepted the task of lead­
ership and taking on new posi­
tions to solidify team weaknesses.
The final homestand was indica­
tive of the team’s progression over 
the year. With the help of the loyal 
CMU hecklers, who helped make 
playing here anightmare for visit­
ing teams, the Tartans were able 
to show the rest of the UAA that 
despite their youth, they were a 
pre-eminent power in the division.
As the season ends, the team 
has already begun to look forward 
to next year. Only two starting 
seniors will depart, and a year of 
growth should do a great deal for 
the freshmen who played so well 
this year. “The team should do 
really well next year” said Naik. 
“They should make the NCAA’s.”
,e9ueI 'rln Sdyuy
; soccer team finished the regular season with a 10-4-3 record.
VIM9nU gvtn9oyuu1,e9ueI geIeirIi ’Mruy9 
Senior halfback Buck Neel runs the ball with strong blocking by 
the Tartan offensive line.
By DAWN PAPUGA
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
& PAUL BOOTHE
Tartan Sports Editor
Saturday afternoon was the end of any play­
off hopes that the Tartans may have had. It is 
often predicted that the team that scores first 
wins. At first, the Tartans were about squelch 
those views, but unfortunately the prediction 
miraculously came true in the last few minutes 
in the fourth quarter against Union College, 
mostly because of poor field position on turn­
overs. “A good football team will take advan­
tage of your mistakes,” said head coach Rich 
Lackner. “We just made too many.”
The Union team came up with the first of 
the points, scoring a field goal with 6:46 left in 
the quarter. CMU answered that four min­
utes later with a touchdown run by freshman 
Mike Campie, and the successful extra point 
by freshman Pat O’Malley, making the score 
7-3 Carnegie Mellon.
The Tartans scored again in the second 
quarter on a pass to senior receiver Casey 
Smith, stretching the CMU lead to 10 points,
after a missed extra point by O’Malley. The Tar­
tan defense had a terrific second quarter, with an 
interception by senior inside linebacker Ray Ar dire 
on the Union 41-yard line. The Tartans converted 
this turnover to three points on the board with a 
successful field goal. Neither team was able to put 
together a scoring drive for the remainder of the 
half, and the score stood at 13-3.
Lackner said, “We won the fftst half and lost the 
second half.” The second half wasn’t so kind to the 
Tartans, as Union scored a touchdown despite a 
second sack (nine yards) by Morrow. The extra 
point was good, advancing the score to 16-10 and 
narrowing the Tartan lead.
Despite the gallant attempt by the defense in 
the beginning of the game, the Union team came 
back strong and capitalized on the late game 
turnovers by the Tartans. The Tartans hit Union 
with three sacks to set them back over 20 yards. 
One of the biggest defensive plays of the game 
was junior Chad Heald’s block of Union’s field 
goal attempt. But what began the down-hill 
slide for the Tartans was the fumble by sopho­
more Jason Funke on CMU’s own six-yard line. 
This brought on a quick Union touchdown to tie 
the game at 16 points apiece, and the extra point
kick gave them a one-point lead.
The Tartans had a chance to come back and 
win the game with 2:51 left in the game and 
possession of the ball, but a Union fumble 
recovery very late in the game lead to yet one 
more clinching touchdown for Union, leaving 
the Tartans with an end-of-the-year loss.
The statistics show how competitive the 
game really was. Carnegie Mellon rushed for 
202 total yards, compared to Union’s 207 yards. 
CMU had trouble moving the ball on the 
ground, coming up with only 66 rushing yards, 
led by Campie’s 20 rushes. “We had a tough 
time moving the ball on the ground,” said 
Lackner. “They shut down our running game 
pretty good.” Soltysik threw for 136 passing 
yards, averaging 10 completions out of 24 
throws. Again, turnovers plagued the Tartans 
and cost them the victory. Union threw for a 
single interception, while the Tartans threw 
one interception and fumbled twice. pyUn8n9k 
the defense played a very aggressive gantf' 
breaking through Union’s line to throw their 
quarterback to the ground for six sacks' 
Lackner said, “I thought our defense played a 
pretty good football game.”

---------------------------------------------------

T TWITIT Ani ran rara ni laiii garaLIVllilJ
Volume 91, Issue 11 The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 18 November 1996
Vll cdyuya udra cein hb Dlanuun grln9­tl"yI 1,e9ueI Sdyuy Nueww 
Students head to Crimes of Fashion located on nearby Forbes Ave. to 
rummage through racks of classic and colorful vintage clothing .
mÊKÊÊÊM
Freshman art major, Emily Merz, searches for the perfect vintage 
jacket at Hey Betty, located on Ellsworth Avenue.
Turn back time with 
classic vintage styles
Local shops house classic clothes
By TRACY ODELL
Tartan Staffwriter
If only my mom would have saved all 
her clothes from back in the day, I would 
not be forced to brave the world of vin­
tage clothing shops. So much about 
vintage stores is paradoxical. Yoi 
buy new clothes there, but really 
they are old. You wonder who wore 
the clothes before you, but you 
are kind of scared to know.
Your parents wore clothes 
like these and now you 
find yourself dressing 
like them and thinking 
you have a great sense 
of style. These are 
somewhat scary 
thoughts, but visiting 
some of Pittsburgh’s 
vintage shops helps un­
ravel the mystery.
While all the vintage 
shops I visited have their 
unique attributes, they all 
also share certain character­
istics. They tend to be very 
small with tons of clothing 
jammed into them. The cloth­
ing spans from the turn of the 
century to the 1970s with an 
emphasis on the ’70s because 
of the period’s current popu­
larity. The stores have a jew­
elry counter with costume jew­
elry and period pieces as well as other 
accessories like hats, shoes, and scarves.
There is no typical vintage shopper. 
While college students constitute a sig­
nificant portion of the stores’ customer 
base, each store also attributes a large 
portion of its sales to an older crowd — 
from young twenty-something profes­
sionals to middle-aged doctors and law­
yers.
The popularity of vintage clothes is 
partially due to the thrill of the hunt. 
When you discover that perfect item 
after rummaging through the rows upon 
rows of clothes packed into the stores, 
there is a sense of accomplish­
ment that can’t be equaled 
among the nicely spaced racks 
of a department store. Vintage 
clothes are also usually of bet­
ter quality than the clothes 
made today and cheaper than 
their contemporary counter­
parts.
Of the four vintage cloth­
ing stores I visited, Eons 
Fashion Antique, on 
Ellsworth Avenue in 
Shadyside, was definitely 
the most comprehensive 
and impressive. The large 
store had a little of every­
thing, from the truly funky 
to the truly exquisite. Ri­
chard Parsakian, owner of 
Eons, finds all of the 
store’s clothing in Pitts­
burgh and picks every 
piece himself. His atten­
tion to quality is evident 
in the store’s selection. 
Movie, theater, and 
dance companies have 
used his store for cos­
tumes and even some clothing design­
ers have taken their designs from 
clothes they have found in Eons.
Hey Betty, located just down the street 
from Eons, offers a smaller but high 
quality selection of vintage clothing. The 
owners, Sandra and Michael, started by 
selling antique furniture and became
interested in vintage clothing. They try 
to buy most of their clothes at estate 
sales where they also purchase furni­
ture and other items. The store is actu­
ally partly decorated with furniture, like 
the chairs hanging from the ceiling. The 
clothing is not really colorful or loud, but 
subdued and stylish.
Funk Boutique was a little disappoint­
ing considering its name. It was defi­
nitely the least “funky” of the stores I 
visited, though it still had some interest­
ing clothes. This lack of selection may be 
because it is also the baby of the vintage 
stores, having been in existence only 
since September.
The owner, Roberta Anderson, who 
owned another vintage store in Squirrel 
Hill from 1975 until 1981, buys what she 
likes even if it does not fit the category of 
vintage.
She said she looks for good deals so she 
can keep prices down for her customers 
and her clothes truly were the least 
expensive of the stores I visited. She 
tries to get her clothes from their origi­
nal owners so she can hear their history 
and pass the stories on to their new 
owners.
Crimes of Fashion, located on Forbes 
Avenue adjacent to the campus, seems 
to specialize mainly in fashions from the 
1970’s. The store virtually overflows with 
bellbottoms and polyester. Julie, a sales­
clerk at the store, said that some people 
come in looking for “wild things for par­
ties” and others buy their everyday duds 
at the store.
While Pittsburgh may not be the 
fashion capital of the world — or even 
of Pennsylvania — it does have its 
share of vintage shopping alternatives, 
each offering a unique atmosphere and 
selection.
Vintage shops lack thrifty bargains
By ANDREW SEYMOUR
Tartan Staffwriter
Vintage clothing stores in the Pitts­
burgh area tend to be, well ... over­
priced. I know of few college students 
that are willing to spend loads of cash for 
used clothing — stylish as they may be. 
After exploring some of the more popu­
lar vintage clothing stores, you’re bound 
to discover that unless you’ve come with 
your checkbook ready, you won’t find 
much. However, the selection at several 
local shops tends to be reasonably large.
Avalon, located on the comer of Atwood 
and Forbes Avenue, carries most of the 
trendy raver/skater/grunge gear popu­
lar to all the! kids, but vintage wear 
occupies only a small corner of the store. 
What is available tends to be quite over­
priced. A rack full of jeans — used with 
new labels on them — sits in the middle 
of the store priced around $20. Then, 
there are shelves of sweaters — some of 
them missing buttons — priced around 
$30. Lacking buttons seems excusable 
and expected for inexpensive thrift 
stores, but for the high prices you find at 
Avalon, you expect quality. Yuka
Fujimori, a senior psychology major, said worth checking out. 
it was “alright, but really overpriced.” Yesterday’s News, also located on 
Jeremy Brook, a senior double major in Carson Street, has an interesting selec-
creative writing and cultural stud­
ies, said, ‘You can find the same 
stuff at Goodwill or Salvation 
army, but they’ve [Avalon] al­
ready found it for you.” To find 
vintage clothes you like, 
“You’ve gotta go [shopping] 
every couple of weeks,” said 
Brook. Avalon tends to lessen 
the exhaustive search for the 
perfect vintage ensemble.
Traveling to the Southside, 
the picture doesn’t seem to 
improve all that much as far 
as prices go, but the selection 
gets better. Second Seam, 
located on Carson Street, 
boasts a wonderful collection 
of clothing, but according to 
Natalia Mager, a junior art 
major, it too is, “really expen­
sive.” The vintage-wear 
found at Second Seam is ap­
parently of high quality, so
tion of much older vintage wear. Fujimori 
said, “The stuff there is kinda weird, 
like old ladies’ dresses and stuff.” 
Brook said, “Sometimes they have 
stuff. Sometimes they don’t. [It] 
depends on what you’re look­
ing for.”
Swinging back into 
Shadyside, Souvenirs, lo­
cated on Shady Avenue, 
seems to be the best of 
the local bunch. The 
vast selection includes 
colorful clothes dating 
back into the ’30s. 
Prices here are rea­
sonable for college 
students.
If you want to go 
shopping for vin­
tage clothes in 
Pittsburgh, the 
tradeoff for better se­
lection tends to be
if you’re willing to spend All e9uudra cein hb qeh9unINboyIa higher prices, with cer- 
some money, it’s probably eIMNloyIeDy1,e9ueIV9u0ynMruy9a tain exceptions.
An incredible selection of unusual hats is only part of the used 
clothing collection at Eons on Ellsworth Avenue.

---------------------------------------------------

L2The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 18 November 1996
Administrator leaves 
lasting impressions
courtesy of Public Relations
Harriet Schwartz acted as a link between students and administration during 
her four years as Assistant Dean of Student Affairs.
By REENA SINGHAL
Tartan Staffwriter
Former Assistant Dean of Student Affairs Harriet Schwartz has resigned 
from her position in Health Services after four years as an administrator 
and active member of the CMU community. “[Schwartz] has been an 
extraordinary asset to the division,” said Michael Murphy, dean of Student 
Affairs. Now, Schwartz has formally decided to leave her position at CMU 
to pursue her other interests. In August, Schwartz started private practice 
as a career consultant for local individuals and groups, and she is also 
working very actively as a freelance writer. Schwartz left her position as the 
director of Career Development at Bard College to join the CMU community, 
working as the assistant to the dean of Student Affairs.
“I worked hard to create links between Student Affairs, faculty and 
academic administrators—that bridge is an important one,” said Schwartz. 
For four years, Schwartz worked inside the dean’s office, where she focused 
primarily on community service, academic support, and diversity. “There 
are people in my undergraduate life who taught me a great deal and helped 
me through tough times, and I wanted to give something back,” she said.
She helped start the East End Tutoring Program four years ago, which 
“provides an opportunity for Carnegie Mellon students to tutor under­
achieving young people from our community.” The program’s membership 
grew from 20 to 80 over the past four years, as students were eager to 
volunteer their services weekly at six different local schools. “[It is a]
“She's a... very behind-the-scenes person 
who does wonderful things, but never for 
the glory of doing it....”
— Brian Curfman, senior biology 
and psychology major
program that will remain at CMU for a long time,” said Schwartz.
When focusing on academic support, Schwartz not only helped students 
who were having trouble academically, but also worked with faculty mem­
bers who wanted to find ways to be more supportive of the students in their 
department. Schwartz appreciated the diversity of students and faculty at 
CMU. “The range of academic discipline at CMU exposed me to a range of 
problem solving methods, working with students and faculty of different 
departments,” she said.
“I enjoyed connecting with students who were involved in activities and 
clubs and watching students grow into leadership roles,” said Schwartz. 
When promoting diversity, Schwartz worked with student organizations, 
such as Spirit, Inter-faith Council, ALLIES, and Hillel. She worked with 
them through some programming, but mostly through outreach to the 
organizations.
As an administrator in the dean’s office, she also worked with religious 
and spiritual issues, community relations, publications, and class clubs, and 
she has worked as a sexual assault advisor for numerous years.
During her last year here at CMU, Schwartz worked out of Health 
Services, where her primary responsibilities included alcohol education, 
intervention, and health education programs.
Brian Curfman, a senior biology and psychology major, worked as an 
intern for Schwartz in health services. Together they worked on alcohol- 
related issues, eating disorder issues, and World AIDS Day. They designed 
a program that was distributed to the residence halls and student organi­
zations, regarding alcohol-awareness issues, and hung posters carrying the 
theme, “Just Think About It,” showing facts relating to eating disorders and 
alcohol. For World AIDS Day, the two brought in speakers to make the 
campus community more aware, educated, and supportive, and they orga­
nized a candlelight march from Chatham College to CMU to the University 
of Pittsburgh.
“[Schwartz] got me to realize you can make a difference in people’s lives 
without being political,” said Curfman. “She’s a woman who is a very behind- 
the-scenes person and who does wonderful things, but never for the glory of 
doing it; she does it because she wants to make a difference.”
“I have enjoyed the connection with the students the most, helping 
[them] through crisis, whether it was personal, academic, or a combina­
tion,” said Schwartz. “Each of us is very capable of helping people in one 
way or another. Whether a friend is having trouble with a class or a 
problem with alcohol, each of us can try to make a difference in that 
person’s life. When you do make the effort, it typically feels very good,” she 
said.
She has found it “rewarding to do this professionally and to help get other 
people involved in helping.”
“[Schwartz’s] significant contributions over the past five years ... have 
had a significant impact on the campus and provided a role model for us 
all,” said Murphy. “Her genuine concern for the welfare of students and her 
affection for the division and the University have distinguished her work 
for these many years. Her collaborative team approach and high energy 
level made her a valued colleague to staff and faculty members throughout 
the institution.”
Women use violence as power
CRACKING THE MYTH
by Christy Hipchen
Recently I saw an independent film 
entitled A Gun for Jennifer. It was an 
entertaining film that depicted a group 
of female vigilantes who avenged sex 
crimes against women by murdering 
rapists. The women in the film were 
absolutely intolerant of society’s gar-
be attacked by a man she lives with or ing sexual violence as the heinous crime 
is married to than by a stranger on the that it is. In movies, women with guns 
street. The leading cause of injury for certainly grab a lot of attention. In real 
American women between the ages of life, some women have shot their at- 
15 and 44 is domestic violence. tackers and saved themselves.
Will guns make the home a safer women feel less afraid because they 
place? Most statistics say “no.” Guns carry guns. So, many may be reluctant 
triple the chances of murder occurring to say that guns don’t give women power, 
in the home and are extremely more But, advocating gun ownership as { 
likely to be used in a suicide, accidental means of gaining power and fighting 
death, or murder than in self-defense, against sexual violence individualizes 
Guns may or may not empower women the struggle. Individuals wielding guns 
against violence, but they do not seem very well may command individual
to increase safety. power (though they may also have their
In recent years, women have been weapons turned on them), but shouldn’t 
encouraged to acquire guns as a means the fight against sexual violence be 
of empowerment. A major player in this societal one that includes everyone? I8 
is the NRA. In 1993, they launched a embracing violence the best way to com- 
campaign to educate women on “How to bat it?
Choose to Refuse to be a Victim” by The relationship between women’s 
learning more about guns. This slogan acquiring guns and acquiring power iibage and undeniably strong. They were 
also armed, as powerful women in many is problematic because it presupposes a complicated one. Owning a gun may
give a woman the sensefilms often are. The film 
made me think about 
women, guns, and power, 
and whether these three 
things form any sort of equa­
tion. It’s not my intent to 
argue that wielding guns 
does or does not give women 
power, because honestly, I’m not sure. I 
am sure that the issue raises several 
questions about what is women’s power. 
Women’s transformation from being 
afraid to fighting back is an arresting 
and important occurrence, but the role 
that guns play in this may be confound­
ing the real issues at hand.
Fear puts women in the position of 
constantly watching their backs. Guns 
may be a way for women to combat the 
feeling that they are subjected to con­
stant threat, a way to turn the tables on 
attackers. But the extent to which vio­
lence has invaded the home is blatantly 
overlooked. A woman is more likely to
“In recent years, women have been 
encouraged to acquire guns as a 
means of empowerment. ”
that she is not helpless, 
and it may save her life. 
But it also may undermine 
the safety of her home and 
be used against her. The 
hWvv nn hy,laucrU underlying problem is that 
sexual violence destroys 
too many lives, and laws and courts 
sanction it entirely too often.
that someone chooses to be a victim.
Fault lies with the attacker, not the 
woman. The NRA’s commitment to Regardless of whether or not indi­
women’s safety seems to be an appeal to vidual women choose to carry guns, 
a formerly unreached market for gun sexual violence will not cease until it is 
ownership, because they certainly do a common value in our society that 
not support measures to keep guns out women’s bodies and sexualities are not 
of the hands of criminals who perpe- to be violated.
trate women. The relationship between guns and
Although guns do not contribute to a women’s power is a debatable one, and 
safe society or home, I can’t deny that it’s a shame that women are put in the 
owning a gun can in turn command a position to consider it as a means of 
certain type of power. This was true in survival, 
the film, where the women, by wielding 
guns, avenged crime, gained power, and 
made a strong statement about treat-
Christy Hipchen is a junior profes­
sional writing major.
Students spread AIDS awareness
By SUSAN WATSON
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
AdvocAIDS is a new on-campus or­
ganization that deals with the promo­
tion of AIDS awareness. The club was 
founded by . Kelly McPhee, a sopho­
more psychology major. “The general 
goal of AdvocAIDS is to increase edu­
cation and awareness on campus. We 
also want to promote AIDS preven­
tion,” said McPhee.
McPhee founded the organization 
because she believes AIDS awareness 
is addressed at CMU on a minimal 
level. She said, “I noticed there were 
no groups dealing with the issue. AIDS 
is very important, especially for col­
lege students.”
Jeff Lauzon, the coordinator of 
health education, feels the organiza­
tion will be a great asset to the CMU 
community. “I think the University 
needs more in terms of dealing with 
AIDS. Most people get AIDS educa­
tion through high school, but it just 
makes sense to have more education 
in college. This is the time when sexual 
activity increases. That fact is concur­
rent with the probability of contract­
ing HIV,” he said.
McPhee said the organization would 
be an ideal way in which she can be an 
active student at CMU as well. “Last 
year, I wasn’t really involved on cam­
pus,” she said.
“I also didn’t think that AIDS was 
addressed adequately at this Uni­
versity. During freshman orienta­
tion, it is addressed during the safe 
sex talk, but I think there should be 
more in creating awareness. It is 
something I’ve always been inter­
ested in. I want people to keep them­
selves safe. AIDS is the most pre­
ventable disease in the world.”
McPhee hopes that she will get en­
thusiastic participation from students. 
“I wouldn’t have started this organi­
zation unless I .was optimistic,” she 
said. “People are curious about the 
issue, though it is controversial. After 
all, it is a matter of life and death. A 
lot of people have told me they are 
interested and would like to be in­
volved. The problem is that people 
here are so busy. That’s why I want 
highly committed members. I want 
good people spreading good education. 
That’s important, and it’s what I’m 
aiming for.”
Lauzon feels the group will be highly 
effective in educating students because 
it is comprised of students.
“Peer education is one of the best 
ways to learn. Peers understand how 
to communicate with peers,” he said. 
“They know how to address the topics.
There’s a certain energy that they fos­
ter. AdvocAIDS is utilizing that en­
ergy to get the message out there.” 
Lauzon wants to help McPhee in 
promoting the organization on cam­
pus. He said, “I want to team up with 
Kelly and be allies. I want to be a 
valuable ally for her. My cause is to 
make the program stronger. Getting 
students involved is what 
I really want to do.”
AdvocAIDS will be 
co-sponsoring 
World AIDS Day.
The event will 
be held on
December 2-3. Currently, McPhee is 
focusing on increasing the member­
ship of AdvocAIDS. She said, “We’re 
very much at the starting point. I’m 
concentrating on planning events and 
maintaining the group.”
AdvocAIDS3 next meeting will be held 
on Wednesday, November 20. For more 
information contact Kelly 
McPhee or read the 
AdvocAIDS bboard 
assocs.AdvocAIDS..
NroyIe Lo/Tartan Art Co-editor

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 18 November 1996L3
C.D. TRADER
BUY • SELL • TRADE • RESERVE
YOU MIGHT NOT FIND 
HIM IN OUR STORE...
BUT YOU WILL FIND THE CD YOU WERE LOOKING FOR!
NEW AND USED 
COMPACT DISCS
201 SOUTH CRAIG ST.
687-6626
EXIT
ON MY WAY OUT
Seniors lose touch 
through the years
Remember back in high school 
when you’d rush home each day 
to see what schools finally sent 
replies? My friend called me up 
as soon as she received her ac­
ceptance letter to this school. 
She wanted me to check the mail 
by Eric Salzman formine. We stayed on the phone 
as I opened the letter to find out 
that I too was accepted into Carnegie Mellon. I guess you could say 
that we got in together.
We visited the campus together later that spring. It was Carni­
val weekend, so CMU was looking pretty grand. For one reason or 
another, the two of us decided to attend.
On the day our parents dropped us off, mine left relatively early 
and hers stuck around through dinner. They decided to take my 
friend, her roommate, and me to “The O” for dinner. I had a 
heaping plate of spaghetti (that’s what it was called).
The three of us agreed to make “The O” an annual tradition. 
Each year, on the first day we were all back in town, we’d go to “The 
0” for dinner. It may have been a kind of cheesy thing to decide, 
but that’s the sort of thing you do your freshmen year, right?
Sophomore year we stayed true to our word. On the first day that 
we were all back in town, we went to “The 0”—this time we added 
a few other friends to our little annual dinner. All was well and life 
was good.
Junior year wasn’t so simple. One member of the group was away 
for the semester. Others had lost touch. Getting together the first 
day we were in town was impossible. In fact, we hardly saw each 
other at all the whole semester. Every now and again a few people 
would join up, but we could never get that annual trip to “The O” 
with everybody — not until the spring semester.
It’s kind of sad to think that it took us, a group of “friends,” an 
entire semester to coordinate a walk down to Oakland for dinner 
especially considering that most of us eat dinner almost every night. 
However, we did finally go and it was a grand time. We caught up 
on each other’s lives, reminded each other of old stories, made fun 
of people for the same old reasons — you know, dinner.
We haven’t quite made it to “The O” yet this year. It’s interesting 
to watch as priorities change. Knowing that you’re entering the 
world soon makes those big projects all the more important. Of 
course interviews or plant trips take priority over everything 
because they are probably once in a lifetime opportunities. Maybe 
going out just doesn’t seem worth it.
We’ve been telling each other over the years that we’ll keep in 
touch after we graduate. One person in New York, another in 
Virginia, another in L.A., and maybe one in Texas. Yup, we’ll be in 
regular contact, I’m sure. Right now we five about 200 yards apart 
and can’t even make it down to “The O” for dinner. Bon apetit.
Eric Salzman is a senior philosophy major.
‘Roofies’ spread fear among students
By SHARMILA 
VENKATASUBBAN
Tartan Features Editor
This semester, CMU has seen 
one of the biggest increases in 
sexual assault awareness on 
campus, from “info” tables and 
brochures to panel discussions 
and guest lectures featuring 
legal and medical experts. Last 
week the Women’s Center spon­
sored a Sexual Assault 
Roundtable that initiated an 
open dialogue between Campus 
Police, administration and stu­
dents in order to discuss cam­
pus policies and the actual fre­
quency of rape at CMU; this 
week the Sexual Assault Advi­
sors and Health Services held a 
“Breaking the Silence” work­
shop that addressed the two 
part question of “what is sexual 
assault” and “how do I help vic­
tims of sexual violence?” [Ed. 
note — please see related story 
on page L3]
Why the sudden increase in 
raising consciousness on cam­
pus? According to Katie Hart, 
the drug rohypnol known as the 
“date-rape” drug, puts a new 
twist on sexual violence. More 
commonly known as “roofies,” 
rohypnol induces a temporary 
memory loss; during that pe­
riod, victims are physically and 
mentally conscious, but are not 
fully capable of making deci­
sions without compromising 
their well-being. “You don’t 
black out, but at the same time 
you don’t remember anything 
that happened the night before,” 
said Hart, a junior majoring in 
BHA and a community advisor 
for Morewood E-Tower. “Not 
only can you not make safe de­
cisions, you can’t remember 
them the next day.”
Illegal in the U.S., roofies are 
used as a substitute for anes­
thesia in other countries and 
are manufactured in Mexico. 
The size of a Tylenol tablet,
rohypnol can be slipped into a 
drink without any noticeable 
physical characteristics; your 
food or drink looks and tastes 
the same as before. After 15 -20 
minutes, the victim begins to 
feel the effects of the drug - a 
feeling of heightened disorien­
tation and confusion. Victims 
tend to feel out of control and 
sick.
“You feel more drunk than 
usual, although the effects are 
isolated from alcohol,” said 
Hart. ‘You reach a point where 
you just want to go home.”
Hart said the that the offender 
recognizes these symptoms and 
acts upon the victim’s vulner­
ability.
“That’s when he might say, 
‘do you want to go home?”’ she 
said.
Roofies erase the memory 
from a certain point on; during 
this “black out” period the vic­
tim is still physically active, but 
doesn’t remember anything that 
happened. Memory loss lasts 
from 8-10 hours at a time, 
although the effects from the 
drug can last up to 30 hours 
after ingestion.
This gives the offender an op­
portunity to take advantage of 
the situation. The affected per­
son cannot make decisions that 
are in their own best interest 
and will not be able to rectify 
the situation since they don’t 
remember the night before.
In a typical date-rape scenario 
the rapist is usually someone 
the victim knows; with roofies 
it can be anyone. “You are sus­
ceptible to the drug anyplace 
where there’s a large number of 
people — and mostly people you 
don’t know,” said Hart. “Some­
times you remember who you 
left with, but usually you don’t.”
Hart said that a concern grew
within Student Life to educate 
community residents about 
rohypnol and its implications 
on a college campus. They real­
ized that they didn’t know much 
about it themselves and weren’t 
in a position to deal with any 
situations that might arise be­
cause of it. “The CAs encour­
aged their RAs to have floor 
programs; I knew that it has 
moved to New York but we were 
surprised to hear that the drug 
had made it’s way to Pittsburgh 
so fast,” said Hart.
Hart began to plan a panel 
discussion with the help of Paul 
Fowler, director of Student Life 
and Detective William Kaiser 
from Campus Police. “We 
wanted to bring different speak­
ers to campus to inform stu­
dents about the various impli­
cations of the drug,” she said. 
Last Monday assistant district
Please see “ROOFIES” on page L4
A SUITE FOR LESS 
THAN A HOTEL ROOM
ELEGANTLY FURNISHED ONE OR TWO BEDROOM APARTMENT SUITES 
INCLUDE AN EQUIPPED KITCHEN, FLUFFY LINENS, TV, VCR, CABLE MOVIES, 
FREE LOCAL PHONE SERVICE AND RESERVED PAFIKINC
CONVENIENTLY LOCATED AT 5405 FIFTH AVENUE, SHADYSIDE 2 BLOCKS 
FROM WALNUT STREETS 145 FASHIONABLE SHOPS AND 12 DELICIOUS 
RESTAURANTS. I MILE TO CMU/PITT/HOSPITALS.
DAILY, WEEKLY, MONTHLY RATES
5405 FIFTH AVENUE 
PITTSBURGH, PA 15232
(412) 441-4444
htlp://tig.com/Pillsburgh/
Architecture students take part in Pittsburgh culture
gy yVOM YWI
Tartan Business Manager
In an old converted storefront in 
Pittsburgh’s Cultural District, a unique 
experiment is being conducted by ten 
fifth-year architecture students and 
their professor. The group, led by Paul 
Rosenblatt, associate professor of Ar­
chitecture, have converted what was 
formally a pharmaceutical store into a 
modern workshop/studio, and are tak­
ing their Urban Design Studio classes 
in the location. The result is a cutting- 
edge inquiry into fundamentals of the 
creative process.
The idea to involve students in a real- 
world interactive workshop project has 
its roots in an international competi­
tion to develop the cultural district spon­
sored by the Pittsburgh Cultural Trust. 
“The call was to design a comprehen­
sive plan for art in the cultural district
_the whole-being-greater-than-the-
sum-of-its-parts’ kind of idea,” said 
Rosenblatt. “It’s sort of using culture 
and the arts to attract economic devel­
opment.”
The intention was that any art or 
architectural development in the dis­
trict over the next five or ten years 
would be related in a way that would 
not detract from their individual quali­
ties.
The Pittsburgh Cultural Trust’s invi­
tation was extended to artists, archi­
tects, and designers all over the world 
in 1995. The field of entrants was 
whittled down to six teams, including 
one which consisted of Rosenblatt and
courtesy of Paul Rosenblatt 
The Urban Storefront in the cultural district is housed in what 
was once a General Nutrition Center.
Michael Pestel, a multimedia artist and 
faculty member at Chatham College. 
“Each team interpreted [the Trust’s in­
vitation] in a somewhat different way....
courtesy of Paul Rosenblatt 
Watermill Center jhe windows in the Urban Storefront invite
studio in New York, passers-by to drop in .“It was a very pro­
ductive workshop kind of atmosphere,”
We were delighted to be chosen one of said Rosenblatt. “After the success of 
the six finalists,” said Rosenblatt. The that, the Cultural Trust wanted to en- 
eventual winners ofthe Cultural Trust’s gage the public in the process.” The 
commission was a team consisting of Trust wanted to bring the same collabo- 
renowned artist/designer Robert Wil- rative studio/workshop environment to 
son, and the architect of the Andy Pittsburgh in such a way that the pub- 
Warhol Museum Richard Gluckman. He could get involved. The result was 
Wilson and Gluckman were inter- the Urban Storefront.
The 10 students involved in the ur-ested, however, in working with people 
who were familiar with Pittsburgh, and 
enlisted the help of Rosenblatt and
ban design studio class this semester 
are focused on the same problem posed
Pestel. The four of them, along with by the Cultural Trust — that of the 
CMU architecture students Michelle comprehensive art plan for the Cul- 
Mondazzi and John Ferri, and a third tural District. “They’re looking at ways 
student from Harvard, conducted a sum- to do this — looking at individual plans 
mer-long creative retreat at Wilson’s that may inspire the public,” said
Rosenblatt. But 
what appears to 
be the greatest 
contribution of 
the project is the 
way it allows the 
students to de­
sign while actu­
ally living the en­
vironment they 
are designing for. 
“Since we are 
down in the Cul­
tural District all 
the time, we see 
and experience 
things that most 
studios don’t get 
a feel for in their 
projects,” said 
Eric Giuliano, 
one of the fifth- 
year architect 
students involved in the project.
“For example, quite often, when get­
ting a project at the beginning of a 
semester, the studio members visit 
their site, and maybe go back one or two 
times throughout the semester.... In 
our storefront, we experience the space 
almost daily and at any time through­
out the day.”
The Urban Storefront has also intro­
duced a collaborative element into the 
design process that appears to be popu­
lar with the students. The storefront 
idea was purposefully chosen to entice 
members of the public to involve them­
selves in the creative process and pro­
vide feedback—literally pulling people
off the street. In this sense, the Urban 
Storefront is an interactive gallery or 
exhibition space in addition to being a 
workshop for the students. “I think the 
whole point of the studio was to be 
interactive. That has been a challenge 
for us,” said Yu Inamoto, another fifth- 
year architect student taking the ur­
ban design studio class this semester. 
“We have lots of guests — that’s a dif­
ferent opportunity for us. We’ve done 
presentations every week to people from 
the Warhol Museum and from the Cul­
tural Trust, and they give us different 
insights.” In Inamoto’s estimation, the 
interactive theme of the storefront, in 
conjunction with its location in the tar­
get space, helps the students transcend 
a fundamental problem with studio de­
sign work. “One of the problems we 
have is that we tend to block ourselves 
off from the people who actually use the 
architecture,” he said.
The interactive process has been 
taken to the next level of technology 
with digital video cameras recording 
the architects at work, and a web site 
where these images can be seen all 
over the world. “All this interaction 
has led to an enormous variety of criti­
cism and ideas,” said Giuliano. “That 
has enriched our projects throughout 
the semester.”
The Urban Storefront is located at 
907 Penn Avenue in the Cultural Dis­
trict, and is open to the public on Mon­
days, Wednesdays, and Fridays, from 
1:30 pm and 4:30 pm. For more infor­
mation, check out their web site at 
www.arc.cmu.edu/urban.

---------------------------------------------------

L4The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 18 November 1996
CLC allows for involvment In community
By AMANDA SPEAR
Tartan Staffwriter
While normal classwork 
tends to be rigorous enough for 
most students, there are a few 
who have put their education 
to practical measures. Mem­
bers of Rhetoric and the Writ­
ing Process, a community-ori-
student end. Students must be 
recommended for the course by 
previous students, where they 
mentor local high-school stu­
dents. The program culminates 
in a “Community Dialogue”.
The dialogue for this semes­
ter was held on last Wednes­
day at the Community Literacy 
Center on the North side. The
“While this [Community Dialogue] is 
a really good idea ... I think some of 
the CMU mentors went in with some 
preconceived ideas..."
— Alexis Sottile, junior BHA major
ented course that gives stu­
dents an opportunity to work 
with inner-city teens and 
adults in an effort to express 
feeling and take action on is­
sues that affect them.
The Community Literacy 
Center (CLC) is a collabora­
tion between the Community 
House of Pittsburgh, a seventy- 
five year old institution, and 
Carnegie Mellon. Carnegie 
Mellon’s involvement is on the
topic was the recent teen cur­
few passed by the city of Pitts­
burgh which applies to youth 
under the age of seventeen.
It was attended by the men­
tors, members of the commu­
nity such as parents and teach­
ers, as well as Councilman 
Sala Udin.
The teens presented an inter­
active video and newsletter ad­
dressing the issue of curfews 
and community responses to
such a constraint upon minors, 
Alexis Sottile, a junior BHA 
major’with concentrations’-in 
acting and creative writing, 
said “It seemed like it was well 
received. It may not have got­
ten the attention the organiz­
ers wanted due to the verdict 
in the Gammage case that had 
been recently passed, acquit­
ting one of the police officers.”
“While this [Community Dia­
logue] is a really good idea that 
has a lot of potential, I think 
some of the CMU mentors went 
in with some preconceived 
ideas about the kids, and that 
changed the outcome of the end 
project,” said Sottile.
Perrin Rowland, a junior his­
tory and professional writing 
major who took the course in 
last Spring, agreed with Sottile.
“I think that the project is a 
great idea that could help some 
kids, and maybe serve to help 
focus the community on some of 
the issues these kids face on a 
day to day basis ... like stress 
about school work, problems with 
teachers and other students,” 
said Rowland.
However, the positive aspects 
of the Community Dialogue 
were complicated for one stu­
Seminars encourage assault 
victims to break the silence
By KRISTA CONTINO
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Last Wednesday, the Sexual 
Assault Advisors held a meeting 
called “Breaking Silence” on how 
to help those who have been 
sexually assaulted. The meet­
ing consisted of four short semi­
nars — several interactive 
speeches, a video, and then small 
group discussions. Issues ad­
dressed included child molesta­
tion, marital rape, and the sexual 
assault of men.
Everyone attending was given 
a name tag and a blue folder 
filled with sheets to be completed 
during the sessions. After din­
ner, Kerri Ullucci, senior history 
and policy major and coordinator 
of the Sexual Assault Advisors 
and of “Breaking Silence,” made 
the introduction, welcoming and 
thanking of everyone for coming 
to the seminar. Ullucci promised 
the meeting would be “low-key” 
because the issue was “so high- 
tension.” Next were Yunny Yip, 
junior industrial management 
and economics major and Mike 
Batz, senior electrical and com­
puter engineering major. The 
Sexual Assault Advisors put to­
gether a sheet of common mis­
conceptions about assault. Some 
myths and facts were “Only 3% of 
offenders serve prison sentences,” 
which is a fact, and “Most victims 
recover from an assault within a 
year,” which is a myth. The Sexual 
Assault Advisors opened up the 
floor for the participants to an­
swer and give their reasons for 
either side on these beliefs. No 
one in the group answered incor­
rectly to the statements, but dis­
cussed why some people would 
think otherwise. For example, 
“Rapists are. people who don’t 
have any other sexual outlets,” a 
myth, would be perpetuated to 
give a sense of security that rap­
ists were easy to avoid because 
they were easy to identify. Then 
the advisors included more facts 
and statistics involving the myths 
like 95% of adult assaults and 
80% of child assaults are commit­
ted by heterosexual men.
They also showed a movie about 
campus rape that featured four 
women who had been raped by 
acquaintances or strangers. The 
video gave a clear description on 
the emotional and psychological 
effects an assault has on a woman, 
the feelings of guilt and lack of 
safety common in survivors. 
Karen Stump, principle lecturer 
in the chemistry department, led 
the discussion following the video 
and said that there was a major 
part of sexual assault missing 
from the video that should not 
have been forgotten—the sexual 
assault of a man.
The group was given a fifteen 
minute break, after which Ullucci 
talked about “Survivors Reac­
tions to Rape: What to Look for 
and How to Help.” The damages 
that could occur included physi­
cal, emotional, and social reac­
tions. A survivor could do any­
thing, but it would most likely be 
the opposite of the way they acted 
before the attack. To illustrate, 
Ullucci said, “If they were outgo­
ing, they might stay in their room 
all the time. If they never left 
their room, they might start go­
ing out all the time.” Ullucci then 
asked the group to look through 
their materials and cited the pro­
fessional groups that aided in the 
areas survivors of assault would 
want to turn to. Pittsburgh Action 
Against Rape (PAAR) was em­
phasized as a starting point. 
Ullucci also stressed patience in 
dealing with the person and mak­
ing sure the focus was on what the 
survivor needed or wanted instead 
of what others might think they 
should do or say.
Mike Rosenthal senior com­
puter science major, got smaller 
groups together to discuss four 
pre-written cases. One included a 
male acquaintance mentioning in 
passing he had been assaulted 
and being worried about what to 
do. Another was a hysterical fe­
male floormate who came for help 
after being raped. Five people and 
an advisor made up the groups, 
each with the same four questions 
on how to handle the situations. 
Each group then answered one of 
the four questions in front of the 
room and discussed their ideas 
with everyone, such as reassuring 
them, supporting the survivors 
feelings and recommending them 
to get outside help..
Ullucci said, “I’m very excited 
about the turn-out.... Everyone 
was really honest and shared per­
sonal experiences.” In the past
travel.
PSST! Going somewhere else? STfl Travel lias great student airfares to destinations around the world.
STA TRAVELWo'vo boon thnrc.800-777-0112
www.sta-travel.com
dent, a senior in the course who 
wished to remain anonymous. 
“I would agree that the idea is a 
good one, but fails somewhat in 
the execution.
The whole idea of the dialogue 
is cool, but organizing it like that, 
inviting people to come see these 
kids perform, seems contrived to 
me. I don’t feel like that kind of 
audience really takes the things 
the kids say to heart and I feel 
like some of the students were 
uncomfortable With it.”
“I can see where someone 
could say this is 
contrived,’’said Sottile.
“I know there were people 
who expected the mentees to 
be really messed up, gang 
members and such, but 
mostly they’re just regular 
kids who come from a differ­
ent perspective than a lot of 
us.” Sottile felt that images 
like that took away from the 
final presentation, because of 
what the audience was ex­
pecting.
For more information about 
the Community Literacy Cen­
ter and how to get involved 
call the english department 
at 8-2580.
Date-rape drug 
poses threat
ROOFIES, from page L3
attorney, Darell Dugan along 
with Dr. Fred Harchelroad 
from Allegheny General Hos­
pital and Detective Kaiser 
spoke to students about the 
legal and medical aspects of 
rohypnol. Hart said turnout 
to the lecture was weak; they 
needed to find other ways to 
get the word out. “This is the 
kind of issue where the only 
real way to inform yourself is 
to> recognize the symptoms,” 
said Hart. “And once you do, 
you can go to a friend and say 
‘don’t let me go home alone.’”
NroyIe Dy1,e9ueI V9u 0y­nMruy9
RAs Lisa Don and Helen 
Wang have held floor pro­
grams to start the process 
with their own residents. Don, 
a sophomore psychology and 
social history major showed a 
20/20 video that described 
what the drug was and the 
experiences of different 
women who claimed they 
were affected. “The main feel­
ing I got from my residents 
afterwards was a feeling of 
vulnerability — which scared 
me,” said Don.
Wang, a sophomore english 
and psychology major planned 
a similar program on her floor, 
but unfortunately none of her 
residents attended. “Program­
ming is very difficult on this 
campus, but I’m not giving up,” 
said Wang. “I’m planning an­
other one. Roofies area grow- 
ingproblem on all college cam­
puses and we need to educate 
people. A lot of people don’t 
even know what it is and that’s 
the way it makes its way.”
,yIb 0dey1,e9ueI Sdyuy Nueww geIein9 
Seniors Mike Batz and Yunni Yip conducted a portion of the seminar, 
Breaking Silence, which focused on Sexual Assault Awareness.
three years, the seminar has at­
tracted 40 to 50 people and had 
44 this year, 17 of whom were 
men. Ullucci said, “We have to 
maintain a professional attitude 
and try not to belittle anything.” 
Mike Batz said, “I’m really glad 
that we had such a positive re­
sponse. It’s so important that 
everyone realize how large of a 
problem assault is.”
The Sexual Assault Advisors have 
their names and phone numbers 
posted throughout campus and are 
available at any time to answer 
questions or listen to issues people 
are they themselves facing or have 
someone they know they want to 
help. The Advisors are also looking 
forward to more workshops with 
organizations that can be tailored 
to each organization’s needs.
STUDENT TRAVEL
STA Travel •TO
TYYARV student 
d i s c o n t s 
on domestic
DRUNK DRIVING DOESN’T JUST KILL DRUNK DRIVERS.
Alonzo Drake, killed S/17/91 at 10:53pm on Robbins Rd., Harvest, AL. 
Next time your friend insists on driving drunk, do whatever it takes to 
stop him.
Because if he kills innocent people, how will you live with yourself?
FRIENDS DON’T LET FRIENDS DRIVE DRUNK.
US Oeoartmer! ol Tmnsporiaton
Sunday Nights!Student Choir!
Roman Catholic Campus Ministry
Campus Mass Schedule
SUNDAYS:
10:30am
&8:00pm
Posner Hall (GSIA), 
Mellon Auditorium
MON-FRI:
12:30pmcoiF?
University Center Chapel
Ryan Catholic Newman Center
4450 Bayard Street 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
681-3181
Call 681-3181 
to talk to us
Staff:
Fr. Bryan Summers, C.O., Director 
Fr. Drew Morgan, C.O. 
Fr. David Abernethy, C.O. 
Fr. Joseph Linck, C.O. 
Sr. Bernadette Young, C.D.P.

---------------------------------------------------

DILBERT ® by Scott Adams
CATBERT: EVIL H.R. DIRECTOR
THERE ARE TWO WAYS 
TO GET AN EXTRA 
ENGINEER FOR YOUR 
PROJECT.
Ple asI C,pg5ME,R 
OlL3 eITesSUNU3Y 
SlO34 N4lL FUroUI 
ro3 alLmsIP
NOT SO FAST. I LIKE 
TO SAVOR THE MOMENT 
BEFORE I CRUSH YOUR 
MISPLACED OPTIMISM.
YOUR RESUME LOOKS GOOD, 
BUT WECOULO ONLY PAY 
HALF OF WHAT YOU'RE 
MAKING NOW. ARE YOU 
INTERESTED?
SO... YOU'RE LOOKING 
FOR A BRILLIANT 
ENGINEER WHO IS 
ACTIVELY SEEKING 
A PAY CUT?
WELL, YOU 
HAVE TO 
CONSIDER 
THE MANY 
INTANGIBLES.
SUCH AS MY 
SAVINGS 
ACCOUNT IF 
I WORKED 
HERE?
CATBERT: EVIL H.R. DIRECTOR
HERE ARE THE RESUMES 
OF HIGHLY QUALIFIED 
APPLICANTS FOR 
YOUR OPENING.
IT'S TOO BAD WE 
DON'T PAY ENOUGH 
TO HIRE QUALIFIED 
APPLICANTS. HA HA 
HA HA HA HA!!
LET'S SEE... WE'VE GOT 
RESUMES IN PENCIL... 
CRAYON... PENCIL... 
EYELINER...
ttUN inW F343 oU43YR 
Fosr FleSY h3 Ple4 
SlIvc4sIv3 as4334 
vlsSb
I'D HAVE YOUR JOB 
IN SIX. MONTHS. IN 
A YEAR YOU'D BE 
WORKING FOR ME, 
YOU BIG PILE OF 
DINOSAUR DUNG.,
I SEE YOU ATTENDED AN 
ALL WOMEN'S COLLEGE. 
DOES THAT EXPERIENCE 
REALLY MAKE YOU MORE 
CONFIDENT AND ASSERTIVE?
EITHER ARM. M 
LETS GO.
J
WE LIKE TO ASK OUR 
APPLICANTS SOME 
QUESTIONS THAT WILL 
ALLOW US TO SEE HOW 
YOU THINK.
IF YOU HAVE A FIVE- 
GALLON BUCKET AND 
A FIFTY-GALLON 
BUCKET, HOW CAN 
YOU TELL WHICH ONE 
HOLDS TORE WATER?
WHEN I SAID, “SEE 
HOW YOU THINK," 
WHAT I MEANT 
WAS...
OU) • .owi ow !
50 TE.LL ME... BRIAN... 
UMY DO YOU UJANT 
TO WORK FOR THIS 
COMPANY?
WELL, TO BE HONEST, 
I DON'T. I'M USING 
THIS AS A PRACTICE 
INTERVIEW.
HELÜ0-0-0Ü! 
IT'S LUNCH 
TIME AND 
I OON'T SEE 
SANDWICHES.
OVER THE HEDGE ® by Michael Fry and T Lewis
...gvyr, THE EXAMtNEP LIFE l<=> NOT WOKsTK LEAV/N&f p

---------------------------------------------------

So How WA£ 
YoUP DAY, DEN?? 
AND, BY THE WAY, THIS 
DINNER IS GREW!
I DON'T KNoW WUA.T I'D Do WITHOUT YoU, UoNEY...MNNTMN1N& k MMMJ6E To k TMK 4UoW Uocr©1996 Washington Post Writers Group
vii=yE
i ssvm
L30196y2 ,y ,’DD ,pV, 
gVjm’, j’N’Vj0p 
EF2 fEtf0V,’N 
0OEf0N F6,E6gs’j 
FS,fgfN,NBBB
CoRPoCKTE 
Compromise on 
UEN_T14 CMJE 
REfoRM...
BY
\Vll=j/
VIlsK

---------------------------------------------------

AIRPORT SECURITY
SSISPPi
-
Cheer up, at least 
you get free 
True Rewards 
from AT&T.
AIK). WOW you LIKE \ THE 0(6 \WHWU A ZUM BI6 FATTY sumps J SWEAWAY \ PERFECT ORPEPMPSOOR / IS THAT \ EUROPE? AZZISTAMCE /W ZUW ) EUROPEANS WifCk-, tolilTAP-YACTI&N? /HEPESEEAnO t •+T'V-----A WOSTIIKF /rfftlbtea. ^ ^ v \ AMERICANS./ ^
THIS IS .SWAT.'
IF YOU THINK V Next xt 
Next xt imiyoo u rfrn dsvg 
kmf temf,w rfvmhrap. 
trr Ner xBead rfvmhrS/MULATEP kjl—,.__-NEWARK tHEyHWE /
AT EURO" / / (fjpr 4
^ Ml((.c y -M [uV j
cl?pItoFmNsNdap YO U tmNa u 
ta tapxNaNxmp rdh,mkrr aN 
T nmv,h HanfK Hfp havy
AER " ,rN dr i,avxHk /(jOl4 
fm TWIELIN6 TO FLORIDA 
FXT \ "ID BE A GARBAGE MAM, 
f V AND YOU'RE EYC'TEt? vk k. About it ?
NOT JUST A 6APBA6È MAN •¦ ¦ AT DIZ1Y WORLD ALL EMPLOYEES ARÇ, IN A SENSE, ACTORS PLAYINS PARTS IN A PEUÛWTFUL, MAStCAL, SvIr&» j, FANTASYLAfJO/ >
WHO NEEDS EUH3P6 WHElJyou cw vis/r simulated> EUROPE AT , \ Pizzy WORLD;
O 1996 by NEA. Inc.
«EV,LÛOK/foALTPIZZAS WEIRP. THERE'S JUST V^.~7 WMOR 
<W OFFICE INSIPS THE A REFRISESATCC „ M©p HAS IT THAT
yAwsic KiNSRM.' InsideFFast seeped\ maltpizzY
eTîrTQÿ&rTr^r—.(¿bvVHEVEEREAlLYI 75)«[ PIËR- J
OK, »IKS, iitl 0O/W6TO Opç/Y 7HK... NOTnSafty sick, Mcpe/p nwiTaeTNsEEE 
^BB^^^~mrsecAus& iHBM -" WAVE A SUPD6MHtrO, omuuuM6 thirstfa? ME U/ATEg...
SHOW OUR COSTUIAEP EMPtOYEES 
?CLIB TO HELP .THEM MASTER 
essence OF THElR CHARACTERS .
imiYou&er T ok-soRUN OVER sy A «iCKPlOrISTEAMPOLLEl?. / SUMMARY: TEATVn-fo V SARBASe. <Sw \THENIPI£.
IT STARTS OUT WITH YOU EAWS, EAT/A/S,gATiWS.
WR CHARACTER, ffiAgéSCjAT, UtëVOHÜCfJCÉ 
l/«3fls SILBJT- . tosHofzr. y^...HEWAS f FROZEN W 
H«>ES THAT
science mu
Saw SPAY k, REwve k WM!
' WE ÇMOJUWT 0E HERE-iToBeccvriNUÉP.'
1CW SEE.TO H»DLIN6S NOW ¦ 
~^sr='—^7 "aw-WAMSNAPS.SOES V,- >'5-1«=.%) \ ONRMWAEE > - .TW] >ï\\, 4..O IT.•'S
^ JL?T|CK-"
mcmm-SOAT,EAT j
. -MS' SY
If A PATRON IS RUDE Op 
UNPLEASANT,OUR RULE WL YY 
vrdaxp tx,rpN apw vr,k 
mp Hfppk 6rtNfvrt mv a 
h,akHf, fNx,r Du6Nm nxp 
u Nerd mKrvXXX o\\\\\\\\\\\
imcosTuwe,You toïtembow 
)IZZY WORLD PHILOSOPHY:
) CLEAN, WHOLESOME FUN -A
CoN(âPWULATioNS,SEMHE/VIEM... 
YOU'VE SUCCESSFULLY SU6DUH? 
A MARTY lAOUSE FRozEt-J- 
YOSURT DESSERT Pt&TolYPÇ.WHAT IS IT?.' 
IS IT THE FRDZEU 
BODY OF 
MALT i DIZZY?/
YDLi’ve got a lot to grin about when you use AT&T or an 
AT&T Universal MasterCard*. Like an AT&T True Rewards 
Member Benefit Card. Just flash it and:
• Sam Goody/Musicland gives you a 15% discount 
on CDs and cassettes.
•“TCBY”' Treats gives you a freebie after you buy two.
• BLOCKBUSTER VIDEO' makes your third movie free 
when you rent two.*
•Amtrak lets your companion travel for 25% off.
But True Rewards is just one part of our special 
college package. Here are some more:
AIXTTrue KeacJT Savings AIi5T VlbrklNd"Senior ATXT Universal MasterCard ¦
To sign up for the AT&T True Rewards Program, call
Your True Choice
littp:/Avwwau.com/coliegt’

---------------------------------------------------

jy jllCK UHUU.H'T
Polydamas 
came to 
visit one dayf CAIN/ T TAlK NOW,
Bo£. t'n Vol um
1M A HURKY)
£j) What 
' brought 
you here all 
the way from 
Ilios?
I just wanted to make 
sure that things are going 
all right for both of you. 
So I asked Prince Hector 
to send me here as 
\ an observer.
/Here are 
some blan­
kets you 
might need 
this wint-«*
1,deI• 
1 byCl 
2n 9nellb 
ecc9n­ 
(vreun ruBe 91m,I s,1 Carn 
smashep up 
V ?Kenr bap)
r MY MOTHt-K-lN- LA*W 
TUST GOT H it BY y 
\ A TRUCK I /
Uh...Where is Clymene? 
Is she doing OK?
She went to a 
nearby village 
to buy some 
potteries for 
cooking.
Polydamas!
What are you 
doing 
here?!©HU N1CH01AS C4scIATO, 315
I-it's none 
of your 
. business!!
They somehow could 
not be true to their 
own feelings.^-- 
(OJajtrit 1 N ¿7 -;
,IsCare Voluru ) J nC ggiMiC 
7B Uevlt yl’SMdel’ N me91,Is C
ED 5 RENTA-TRUC
uWdd Om33m so3sm1)JwB vur BITCH i* PEAP.
Go back to Ilios if you've 
come all the way to laugh at 
us! We're NO circus animals, 
you know!!
She should be 
coming back 
any time soon.
u)(V\V -V<

---------------------------------------------------

Volume 91, Issue 11
DIVERSIONS
The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania18 November 1996
Streisand shows off talent
GTTA ,9rNue9 SrvuC9na fIvB 
Barbara Streisand, as Rose, emphasizes her physical 
beauty in hopes of winnning the love of her husband.
By BECKY A. COWSER
tartan News Editor
For many people, the thought of sitting through 
flitwo hour movie that has been produced, directed, 
|nd stars Barbra Streisand sounds like as much 
§in as going to the dentist for a two hour root canal, 
gut if there is going to be a film that will change 
attitudes toward Streisand as a filmmaker 
and actress, The Mirror has Two Faces is it. With 
its superb casting, acting, and musical score, 
Streisand has a definite winner on her hands.
The Mirror has Two Faces is the story of Rose 
Morgan, a professor of literature at Columbia Uni­
versity, who lives in the shadows of her beautiful 
but aging mother, played magnificently by Lauren 
Bacall, and her beautiful but shallow sister Claire, 
played by Mimi Rogers.
Rose thinks that she is 
ugly and that she has 
no chance of ever find­
ing a man who will love 
her. She says what she 
wants most is a man 
who “really knows me. BI^^*BBB*BM*MB 
Someone who knows what I like, what I don’t like, 
what my dreams are.” The problem is, when this 
man comes along, there are strings attached to the 
relationship.
Jeff Bridges plays Gregory Larkin, a Columbia 
math professor who has difficulty with sexual 
relationships. Whenever he is sexually attracted to 
someone, he can’t get any work done. He wants a 
relationship based on mutual respect and friend­
ship, not sex and beauty, things which he says fade 
too fast and leave people searching for more. So he 
takes out a personal ad where he stresses that 
physical appearance is not important for the fe­
male friendship he is seeking. Claire, Rose’s sister,2es this ad and answers it for her.
Eventually, the two start dating regularly, but 
never have any kind of physical contact. So when 
Gregory asks Rose to marry him, Rose’s mother 
thinks that it’s a bad idea because normal relation­
ships don’t usually work like that. But Rose comes 
to the realization that Gregory is probably going to
Jeff Bridges, as Gregory Larkin, is befuddled by 
attractive women in The Mirror Has Two Faces.
be the only man who ever wants to marry her, for 
whatever reason, so she decides to take him up on 
the offer.
But after a few months, Rose becomes frustrated 
with Gregory’s lack of physical affection for her, 
and she confronts him in a hilarious bedroom 
scene. When she realizes that he doesn’t find her 
attractive enough to sleep with her after so much 
time, she decides to make herself over while he is 
on a European lecture tour. And it is when he 
returns from Europe to find a new, more confi­
dent, more beautiful Rose, that the problems 
really start for them, and the scenes get more 
bitingly hilarious.
Streisand has always been known as a perfec­
tionist, taking control over every aspect of her 
work. The Mirror has Two Faces is no exception.
Not only does 
Streisand star 
in this picture, 
she also directed 
and produced it, 
and wrote the
--------------------------------------------- theme song. For
many other
people, tackling this much responsibility on one 
film could lead to a terrible final result. But for 
Streisand, the tremendous amount of work she 
takes upon herself only seems to make the movie 
thrive. The acting is amazing, the story never 
seems to drag even though the movie is rather long, 
and the setting and scenery couldn’t be better. 
Although the two leads do an outstanding job in 
moving the central thrust of the plot along, this 
movie would be lost without its supporting charac­
ters. Lauren Bacall has never been better, and 
Pierce Brosnan, who portrays Claire’s husband, 
always plays a great, good-looking, slimy charac­
ter.
As a production in its entirety, The Mirror has 
Two Faces has just about everything you want out 
of a movie: an interesting story, great actors, beau­
tiful cinematography, and amazing music. So if 
you’re leery about going to a Barbra Streisand film, 
don’t be. I promise you won’t hear the whir of a 
dentist’s drill anywhere near the theater.
"With its superb casting', acting', 
and musical score, Streisand has 
a definite winner on her hands. ”
Boxes reveal versatility 
in Hewlett Gallery exhibit
By REBECCA FRIBUSH
Tartan Staffwriter
The humble box is usually thought of as pretty 
utilitarian. It’s always good to have a couple 
around and it’s certainly convenient for all your 
storage purposes, but you probably wouldn’t ex­
actly consider it a work of art. You wouldn’t, that 
is unless you’ve seen Group A’s show, “Boxes,” at 
the Hewlett Gallery in the College of Fine Arts. 
Group A is a coalition of Pittsburgh-area artists 
who have exhibited together in the past. This 
show is dedicated to their differing interpreta­
tions of the ubiquitous box.
What’s amazing is how much variety these 
artists have incorporated into their variations on 
the box. There are boxes on the walls and boxes 
on the floor and even a box suspended from the 
ceiling. There are wooden boxes, metal boxes, 
glass boxes ... I think you get the idea.
The idea of the box is broad enough to encom­
pass works as different in appearance as Kevin 
O’Toole’s sleek, abstracted enameled sculptures 
and Alice Thiel Mentzer’s fanciful “Altar Icon” 
constructed from sewing materials.
Many of these artists are intent on playing 
with our conceptions of what a box is. Most 
obviously, Marian Graper’s work, a picture of a 
box above the legend “Ceci n’est pas une boite” is 
a takeoff on Magritte’s painting “Ceci n’est pas 
un pipe (This is not a pipe).” Jon Anderson’s 
series “Box, personified” features three pairs of 
boxes; one covered with fur, one with nails, and 
one with these neat orange loopy things.
Others use the box concept very loosely. For 
example, Bobbete Pfeifer’s surrealistically col­
ored photograph “Cruise Box” features pigs 
glimpsed through the outside windows of a cruise 
ship while a guy in a steel pulley thing climbs up
the ship’s outside. The only box shape I see here 
is the shape of the pulley, and perhaps the 
rooms the pigs reside in, but it’s a great pic­
ture all the same.
Another major direction some of the artists 
take is an extension of the idea of the keepsake 
box; a place to store things that are important to 
you. The concentration on content allows these 
works to be more personal in feel than many of 
the others. It also provides for a rich viewing 
experience, as viewers get to do what comes 
naturally — open them up and see what’s inside. 
“Margaret’s Boxes” by Jean McClung, is an ex­
ploration of the life of McClung’s ancestor, Mar­
garet Preston, through arrangments of Preston’s 
memorabilia. James Loney’s untitled work con­
sists of slides of instructions for constructing a 
sculpture of Loney’s, all set into a wooden box.
One of the most innovative works in the exhibit 
is Michel Tsouris’s “Communication,” a group of 
mailboxes filled with letters. Tsouris stresses 
his themes of communication and connection 
not only by allowing viewers to open and read 
the letters but by providing paper and enve­
lopes for them to write their own and add them 
to the work.
Overall, “Boxes” is a very strong show. With 
consistent originality and skill, it gives an 
underappreciated container its share of the spot­
light. I did find it a little overwhelming because 
there are so many different artistic styles 
crammed into the gallery space and I kept discov­
ering new parts of the works to take out or open 
up. But these are more minor quibbles than 
anything else, and I’d much rather be over­
whelmed than underwhelmed.
“Boxes” is showing until November 24 at the 
Hewlett Gallery in CFA.
Dranuun gllln9­tl"yI1 ,e9ueI Sdyuy Nueww
“Nest Egg” by Abagail Franzen-Sheehan and “Ceci n’est pas une boite” by Marian Graper are on 
display as part of the “Boxes” exhibit at the Helwtt Gallery in CFA.
Critic gives rave reviews to television’s top ten shows
On the Tube
by Dan Rosenberg
| It’s that time of year again—time to pick the best 
and the brightest of this year’s television crop. It’s 
never easy to pick a list of ten great programs. In fact,
: there are generally more than enough good series to 
make up a top ten list and the challenge becomes 
which programs to exclude. This was not the case 
this year. Only half of this list consists of regularly 
scheduled programs (and one of those has been 
canceled). The remaining five slots are filled by 
documentaries and British mini-series. Despite their 
diversity, these ten shows have two things in com­
mon. First of all, whether the programs focus on 
lawmakers, lawbreakers, law enforcers, or law 
manipulators (commonly known as lawyers), they 
all involve the law in one way or another. Sec­
ondly, they all exemplify the highest quality of
programming on the air.
Rarely is there a documentary so thought-provok­
ing as the remarkable Primetime Live’s (NBC) seg­
ment “Judgement at Midnight” by top-notch jour­
nalist Cynthia McFadden. For one hour, McFadden 
examined the final days of Antonio James, a man 
convicted of murder and sentenced 
to death by lethal injection in Louisi­
ana. “Midnight” looked at James’ 
budding friendship with the prison 
warden, his heartbreakinggood-byes 
to his family, and his intense meet­
ing with the son of the man he was 
convicted ofkilling. Intercut through­
out the segment were looks at James’ 
attorneys battling against the clock 
to get their client a stay of execution. In one remark­
able and suspenseful horn*, I learned more about 
capital punishment than I ever knew before. This 
documentary represents journalism at its fin­
est, and television at its best.
Before the debuts of NYPD Blue and Homicide, 
there was this ground-breaking police drama Prime 
Suspect (PBS) created by author Lynda LaPlante, 
which focuses on passionate and determined police 
officer Jane Tennison (played by the remarkable 
Helen Mirren). This year, Tennison returned for two 
more cases, one involving the murder of an embez­
zler by his lawyer (Jill Baker, in a wonderfully
menacing performance), and the other focusing on a 
prison guard copying the M.O. of the serial killer 
caught by Tennison in the series’ first episode (which 
airedin 1992). Although only a pair of episodes aired, 
they were four of the most riveting hours of television 
this year. They were more intense than anyX-Files
"... there are generally more than enough 
good series to make up a top ten list and 
the challenge becomes which programs to 
exclude. This was not the case this year. ”
episode and better written than NYPD Blue. Plus, 
they starred the best dramatic television actress of 
all time (Mirren). What more can you ask for in a 
police drama?
The British invasion continues. Like Prime Sus­
pect, the four-part series The Final Cut (PBS) 
chronicled the downfall of a Machiavellian prime 
minister. Like most dramas imported from Britain, 
this series was remarkable in every way. Cut was the 
third installment of the fascinating House of Cards 
trilogy, which chronicled the rise of politician Francis 
Urquhart to the prime ministry through very un­
scrupulous means (including blackmail,
backstabbing, and the occasional murder). The elec­
trifying (and violent) conclusion finally brought a 
shocking end to Urquhart’s reign of terror, but not 
before the prime minister (brilliantly played by Ian 
Richardson) could ruin a few more lives. More acid 
wit than all of Bette Davis’ films combined coupled 
with a fine performance by Diane 
Fletcher as Urquhart’s spouse (the 
most devious wife since Medea), 
this program confirmed that the 
Cards trilogy is the best political 
satire ever.
It is nearly impossible for a series 
to recover when it loses its three 
¦¦¦¦¦¦¦BBI best performers. The once-brilliant 
Chicago Hope, for example, became 
almost unbearable after its trio of powerhouse actors 
(Mandy Patinkin, Peter MacNicol, andE.G. Marshall) 
left. Murder One (ABC) has suffered a similar fate. 
After an exceptional climax to the Goldilocks murder 
case in April, this Steven Bochco legal thriller lost 
Daniel Benzali, Stanley Tucci, and Jason Gedrick, 
who portrayed the three characters at the heart of 
the murder investigation. All have been replaced in 
one way or another by inferior (yet competent) per­
formers (including Anthony LaPaglia and Waltons 
dad Ralph Waite). Despite the drastic cast changes, 
Murder One remains the best recurring series on 
Please see TOP TEN, page L10

---------------------------------------------------

tioThe Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 18 November 1996
Boston Pops conductor performs at Mellon
By MELISSA BATT
Tartan Staffwriter
' Keith Lockhart, conductor of the Bos­
ton Pops and Carnegie Mellon alumnus, 
was welcomed back to Pittsburgh to per­
form with wife Lucia Lin at the Mellon 
''Institute Auditorium last Wednesday. 
rAlso performing with the couple were 
’’¿rtisits Christopher Wu, Randolph Kelly, 
?and David Premo.
Christopher Wu and Lucia Lin both 
performed Sergei Prokofiev’s unusual
3Sonata for Two Violins, op. 56 no. 3 with 
four movements. Prokofiev composed the 
-contemporary period piece in 1932, which 
Explains the unique sound of the work. 
Throughout this piece, the two violinists 
played two distinct parts, seeming al- 
^most as if the pieces were written sepa­
rately and then brought together to be 
'’performed. It began with an enchanting 
‘and mysterious Andante Cantabile 
'movement. An abruptbeginningmarked 
the second Allegro movement with long, 
^ull bow strokes. Then, it quickly moved 
*to two fast-paced separate, yet inter­
twining melodies. Marked by pizzicato 
"and strange melodies except a few gen­
tly eerie sections, this movement was 
very aggressive. The third movement, 
Commodo (quasi allegretto) was a muted, 
beautiful section. Motifs could be dis­
cerned at the beginning of this move­
ment from the first movement. Like the 
other sections in this piece, the two vio­
lin parts sometimes did not fit together, 
creating a dissonant and somber sound. 
The end of this movement faded out 
softly. The last movement, Allegro con 
brio, meaning “fast with motion” was 
exactly that. It presented a more upbeat 
and slightly happier tempo than the 
other three movements, changing keys 
periodically, from major to minor sound­
ing melodies. This section contained 
many quirky attributes, with the violins 
“fighting,” sending and answering dis­
cordance, before dissenting into long 
bows of loud atonal notes. This piece 
overall was certainly not something to 
hum to, but energetically and wonder­
fully performed with an ostensible 
symbiosis between the two violinists 
displayed by impeccable timing and 
smooth movements.
Next, Lucia Lin performed with her 
husband on piano pieces that Lockhart’s 
predecessor, John Williams, had com­
posed: three pieces from the adapted 
score of the movie Schindler’s List. The 
dramatic Theme from Schindler’s List 
was the first" and most familiar of the 
three pieces performed. A rich, powerful 
selection, Lin played it with intense 
emotion, her eyes closed through most of 
the piece. Jewish Town (Krakow ghetto
— Winter 1941) began with a violin solo. 
With arpeggios and heavy bass stacca­
tos in the piano, and quick, lugubrious 
melodies on the violin, this piece linked 
the three together well. Remembrances 
had a melody change between the violin­
ist and pianist, with an obvious motif 
presented from the first piece. The selec­
tion has a significant ending for the 
couple, who performed this piece for 
their first time playing together, with a 
heartfelt high note in the violin.
A delightful Piano Quintet in A major, 
op. 81 by Antonin Dvorak presents a 
shift from the first two selections, which 
were very somber in tone. This collec­
tion of four movements was a whirlwind 
of playing, energetic almost to the point 
of exhaustion. Allegro, ma non tanto had 
many pretty thematic solos, interesting 
playing techniques, such as tremolo get­
ting bigger and bigger bowing, and
abrupt transi­
tions of tempo 
and sound from 
quiet solos to 
the full, accel­
erating quintet 
playing to­
gether. An­
dante con moto 
had many out­
standing viola 
solos through­
out, and bright 
piano inter­
ludes. The 
Scherzo pre­
sented a flow­
ing, pastoral 
feeling, and at 
one point had a
peculiar solo section in which each string Carnegie Mellon University, where hi 
instrument had three pizzicato notes, previously has served as director of of: 
The last movement of the performance, chestral activities. Lucia Lin also ' 
Allegro, had many transitions between many accomplishments, and is currently 
quick and separated to legato, and ended the joint concertmaster of the Londoh
Anukul Kapoor/ ,e9ueI Sdyuy Nueww 
Keith Lockhart, conductor of the Boston Pops and CMU alumnus 
performed with his wife Lucia Lin at Mellon Institute.
with a sparkling finale to the entire 
performance.
Keith Lockhart, named 20th conduc­
tor of the Boston Pops, holds degrees 
from both Furman University and
Symphony Orchestra.
David Premo, on cello has been with 
the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra for 
five years as has been Randolph Kelly, 
on viola, since 1977.
Hero faces defeat in comic book
Comic Book Chronicles
by Jason Andracki
Sometimes the stories found on the front page 
are more horrifying than anything writers or movie 
directors can create. Wasn’t Jeffrey Dahmer more 
terrifying than any character that Stephen King 
made up? I would rather live in a world with 
¡Freddy Krueger than the
' world portrayed in World 
‘War II documentaries.
‘I'his is the concept Den­
nis O’ Neil went with in 
'the Batman one-shot 
'Death of Innocents. While 
^The Killing Joke and 
Arkham Asylum are two 
i)f the most disturbing
_comics, Death of Innocents surpasses both because 
'rather than fighting villains like the Joker, Batman 
"is facing an enemy that really exists: landmines.
The comic begins with an introduction from Sena­
tor Patrick Leahy thanking DC Comics for dedicat­
ing a comic to the issue of landmines and explain­
ing the background of the comic. Leahy is spear­
heading the fight in Congress and worldwide 
against the use and production of landmines. What 
follows Leahy’s introduction is one of the most 
stark Batman stories ever presented.
To compliment O’Neil’s bleak story is Joe Staton 
and Bill Sienkiewicz’s equally dark artwork. 
Sienkiewicz’s scratchy inks give Staton’s pencils a 
^gritty feel that fits the story perfectly. We see 
JBatman traveling to DC’s version of the former
Yugoslavia to rescue the child of a Waynecorp 
employee who has already been killed by a 
landmine. Batman’s utility belt and other gad­
gets that he uses are futile against the threat of 
landmines. In a sense Batman becomes one of us, 
just as defenseless against a landmine as an 
unwitting child.
What makes this story so powerful is that 
Batman doesn’t win. There’s no happy ending, no 
miraculous comeback from a broken back that 
befits a superhero. The only way this book could 
end on a positive note is if Batman located and 
defused all the landmines all over the world, and 
that wasn’t the point of this book. Following the 
story, the real horror of landmines is recounted in 
a series of essays by people whose lives have been 
forever changed by landmines. After each essay 
there are organizations listed to contact about 
helping in the fight 
against landmines.
While it was ad­
mirable of DC to put 
out a comic with one 
of its most recogniz- 
able characters 
fighting landmines, 
I can’t help but feel 
they are only pay­
ing lip service to the issue. It’s great that they 
gave a forum to those who wish to fight against 
landmine use, but I feel it would have been more 
beneficial if some or all of the proceeds of this 
$3.95 book were donated to the cause. On a 
similar note, DC is also lending Superman to the 
fight against landmines. In a comic printed by the 
U.S. Government, Superman is being used to 
teach children in the former Yugoslavia about 
abandoned landmines that are scattered in the 
fields they used to play in. The comic is being 
printed in Serbo-Croatian and Croat.
Jason Andracki is senior professional writing 
major. To help the U.S. Campaign to Ban 
Landmines e-mail banminesusa@vi.org.
“There’s no happy ending, 
no miraculous comeback 
from a broken back that 
befits a superhero. ”
Top programs receive recognition
JOP TEN, from page L9
‘television for one reason: its amaz­
ing writing staff, includingBochco, 
¡Charles H. Eglee, and former 
\Picket Fences scribe Geoffrey 
j Neigher. Of course, it doesn’t hurt 
¡to have Oscar-winner Eileen 
' HeckartandEmmy-nomineeBar- 
! bara Bosson in the cast either.
| NYPD Blue (ABC) again involves 
i Bochco, but this time with cops 
| instead of lawyers. Almost as great 
| as Murder One, Blue has evolved 
j into the definitive police drama of 
: the decade, featuring unbeatable 
¦¡ writing, directing, and perform- 
; ing. Dennis Franz gave this year’s 
¡•best performance by an actor as 
< Andy Sipowicz, the detective who 
j was forced to confront his racial 
; prejudices and his son’s murder 
I over the past eleven months. Lend- 
! ing able support are Jimmy Smits,
¦ Kim Delaney, Debra Christ- 
| offerson, and Lourdes Benedicto, 
[ who graduated from CMU in May 
¡’96.
j Once a contender for the great­
est program of all time, Picket 
¡¦jFences (CBS) has fallen from this
• perch due to the loss of its princi- 
J-pal scribe, the brilliant David E. 
\ Kelley. Despite this decline in the 
! overall quality ofthe scripts,Fences 
\ remained one of television’s best
I hours (until it was canceled last 
•June). Although this year’s epi- 
; sodes involving the rights of gay 
¡parents, an Amish woman’s re­
fusal to testify against her rapist, 
and the trial of a Jewish man ac­
cused of killing a Nazi fifty years 
ago, were not on par with the eu­
thanasia, or virgin birth episodes 
of years past, they were still very 
compelling. The principle reason 
Fences ranks as one of this year’s 
best, however, is a remarkable 
episode that took place out of the 
courtroom. The episode, entitled 
“Bottled,” featured a tour-de-force, 
Emmy-winning performance by 
Kathy Baker and provided what 
may very well be the most realistic 
and sensitive portrayal of a mid­
life crisis ever.
In a similar vein as the House of 
Cards trilogy, The Politician’s Wife 
(PBS) focuses on a betrayed 
spouse’s plot to disgrace her politi- 
cian-husband and make a name 
for herself in politics. Juliet 
Stevenson delivered an excep­
tional performance as the scorned 
wife, and received support from 
Trevor Eve and Minnie Driver. 
Paula Moolne’s flawless script 
wasn’t as vicious as the Cards 
installments, but it still possessed 
more bitingsatire than any Ameri­
can program I’ve seen.
Law and Order (NBC) is the 
great American drama of the ’90s, 
spanning seven years (so far), and 
not declining in quality one bit. 
L&O continues to be as compel­
ling as ever, and it remains at the 
top of its form. Every week, it
Praised music lets down listener
By DAVE ELMAN
Tartan Staffwriter
It’s always a bad sign when the most interest­
ing facet of an album is its title. Sadly, this is the 
case with Dink’s new EP, Blame It on Tito. Before 
I even listened to the disc, I had a burning desire 
to learn the identity of this enigmatic personage.
Who: Dink
What: Blame It on Tito 
Label: Capitol Records
Later I discovered that Tito is Tito Osmond, a 
fictional combination of Tito Jackson and the 
Osmonds. Apparently, it’s along- 
running joke among the band 
members, but it also makes for 
an interesting title.
The album itself is a quirky 
journey through Dink’s style of 
alternative. Although the pub­
licity accompanying the release 
touted them as “hard rock, 
techno, industrial, pop, and 
dance,” a closer description would 
be an average MTV-kissingband 
that decided to get a keyboard. A 
few of the tracks have no elec­
tronics at all, and none hit me as 
particularly hard. The overall 
tone of the album as well as the title suggest that 
it’s all some sort of joke, and it wasn’t one I found 
particularly funny.
“Never Go to Sleep Again” is the first cut, and 
immediately elicits comparisons to an action- 
figure commercial. Perhaps this is due to Sean 
Carlin’s vocals which stretch out the final syl­
lables of each line, but the music also contributes 
to the feeling. I couldn’t help seeing little kids 
running around with these toys, the camera zoom­
ing in on the latest craze. Next is “Numb II,” 
which presumably gives Dink their “industrial”
label. A catchy synthesized bassline repeats 
throughout the song, and the drums are crisp and 
give it a machine-like feel. Carlin’s droning vocals 
dealing with apathy only accentuate this, and 
bleeps and soft percussion fill out what may be the 
best song on the album. In fact, the first of two 
hidden tracks on the disc is a minimalist reworking 
with only a pulsating beat behind the vocals. The 
two versions both have their good points, but both 
seem to retread styles defined by other bands.
Of the remaining songs, the most interesting is a 
cover of Neil Young’s “Ohio” which opens with 
samples of local news broadcasts from 1970. Carlin 
seems inspired singing about the Kent State inci­
dent, and the music backs him up nicely. Every­
thing is very clean, and the track is. the most 
original of those on Tito. “Ohio” is 
also the second hidden song, but 
this latter, mostly instrumental, 
version lacks the powerful guitar 
that drives the former.
Rounding out the EP are 
“Gravitys Girl” and “Green Mind 
(Original Demo).” The first wastes 
an interesting sample on a rather 
ordinary song. Some ofthe guitar 
work owes a great deal to Nir­
vana, and the cut sounds too much 
like a lot of other things I’ve heard 
The second is the demo version of 
Dink’s big hit off their debut. 
While the original was interest­
ing, here it lacks energy. The electronics have been 
toned down and Carlin appears bored. Neverthe­
less, it still has some nice hooks.
As a whole, Blame It on Tito left me disappointed. 
It is almost as if Dink has invented an image to 
cover the fact that there really isn’t anything 
distinguish them from most other alternative bands. 
Perhaps they will be better off if they try to put 
more passion into their music and stop parading 
the notion that they’re different. For now, I’ll just 
have to blame this lackluster album on Tito and 
hope for improvement.
GTTA 0ecruyl jnvy9Ma 
Dink’s new album, Blame It on 
Tito, lacks a true alternative style.
produces award-caliber scripts and 
performances (including a recent 
guest turn by Raiders ofthe Lost 
Ark’s Karen Allen). By staying true 
to its original concept (taking head­
line-making stories and turning 
them into exceptional television), 
L&O continues to make the grade.
In between those alien autop­
sies and animals attacking, FOX 
managed to sneak in an informa­
tional special actually worth 
v/atehinginBadDad’s (FOX). This 
heart-wrenchinghour oftelevision 
looked at a prison program where 
incarcerated fathers learned how 
to be better parents through role- 
playing exercises with juvenile of­
fenders. The final 15 minutes, in 
which the fathers reunited with 
their children, was unforgettable.
Frasier (NBC) is not as good as 
last year, but it’s still network 
television’s best sitcom. Kelsey 
Grammer and David Hyde Pierce 
continue to deliver remarkable 
comic performances. They get 
support from Harriet Sansom 
Harris (in her recurring role as 
Frasier’s agent), Peri Gilpin, Jane 
Leeves, and John Mahoney (as 
Frasier’s irascible father, a retired 
police officer). Although a couple 
of episodes have been off-the-mark 
(like the episode revolving around 
the title character’s focus group), 
the recent episode in which 
Daphne’s ex-boyfriend visited Se­
attle elevated farce to new heights.
COMPUTER SCIENCE MAJOBS
BsJ'Of'ß there’s a breaking news story...breakthrough technology..there’s
If you thought all we hired was Journalism majors, 
have we got news for you!
Find out more when REUTERS comes to Carnegie Mellon.
Attend our Information Session 
Thursday Evening, November 21st
Check the Career Services Office for exact time and location.
Reuters will be conducting campus interviews on 
Friday, November 22nd
Visit our web site: http://www.careermosaic.com/cm/reuters
Reuters is an equal opportunity employer committed to workforce diversity. M/F/D/V.
NV°ft
u faUbU (wiMiiáü u*uei mrnss

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 18 November 1996Lll
DH 2210
I<I¦ 11 * I * I I
movies you may have seen before....,
BY AMIT KAR
Thursday, November 21
Vertigo
Not a date flick. Unless you’re the kind of person 
who likes to be betrayed, deceived, and manipu­
lated by a person you thought loved you but 
turned out to be a hateful, incomprehensibly evil 
lunatic who just wants to screw with your head. 
Then it’s a great date flick. In fact, if you’re into 
that, you should probably take your extended 
family and all their pets. Cats will enjoy this one.
James Stewart plays the lead in another movie 
that Alfred Hitchcock dreamt up while smoking 
opium and sucking on Altoids — curiously strong 
mints. But even curiously strong mints won’t save 
you if your love interest wants to kill you. No, 
you’ll need Mentos — the freshmaker.
At 7:30 pm, 10 pm, and midnight
McConomy Auditorium
Friday, November 22
Independence Day
This is a movie about lemmings. Actually, it’s 
about this one lemming called Colin who, after 
being struck by lightning, is imbued with insight 
into the gift of life. His fellow lemmings do not 
share this insight. Cohn travels from lemming 
alcove to lemming alcove, trying to enlighten his 
fellow rodents and turn them away from their 
annual suicides. He preaches, he pleads, he sets 
up multi-media presentations.
Jeff Goldblum is Colin, the only lemming who 
actually knows anything — quite a departure 
from his usual role as the village idiot. Bill Pull­
man plays the lemming that the other lemmings 
have chosen to be the leader of the lemmings 
because a bunch of lemmings two hundred years 
ago decided that lemmings needed something to 
do between being born and being dead.
At 7:30pm, 10 pm, and 12:30 am
McConomy Auditorium
Saturday, November 23
Courage Under Fire
Meg Ryan (Ahhhhhhh ...) stars in this movie 
starring Meg Ryan (Ahhhhh ...) and a bunch of 
people whose sole purpose in the movie is to 
support Meg Ryan (Ahhhhhh ...). So, this movie, 
starring Meg Ryan (Ahhhhh ...) is about some 
character, played by Meg Ryan (Ahhhhh ...) who 
does some stuff and gets in trouble, or doesn’t. 
There’s some reasonably well known male actor- 
dude — I think it’s Denzel Washington but it 
could be Ronald Reagan, I’m not sure — who 
really isn’t much next to Meg Ryan (Ahhhhh ...). 
After all, Meg Ryan (Ahhhhh ...) is the star. So, 
Meg Ryan (Ahhhhh...) does some stuff and there’s 
a helicopter and some camels. There’s blue skies 
and trees and rocks and mountains. Oh, and Meg 
Ryan (Ahhhhh...) plays the lead role.
At 8 pm, 10 pm, and midnight
McConomy Auditorium
Sunday, November 24
Shaft in Africa
SHHHHAAAAAFFFFTTTT. He goes to 
AAAAAFFFFRRRRIIIIICCCCAAA. He wears a 
leather JJJJAAAACCCKKKEEETTT. He smokes 
a CCCCIIIIIIGGGGAAAARRR, or maybe he 
doesn’t. He’s CCCOOOOOLLLL. He’s cooler than 
Kool and the Gang. He’s so cool that the ambient 
temperature within a mile radius falls two de­
grees when he steps out of his cool-mobile. He’s so 
cool that the continent of Africa gets covered in 
snow when Shaft gets off the plane. He’s cooler 
than James Dean and Steve McQueen, wearing 
nothing but briefs, sitting on a block of ice on the 
bow of a Russian Icebreaker negotiating its way 
through the Arctic Ocean in the middle of winter. 
Richard Roundtree is SSSHHHAAAAFFFFTTTT.
At 8pm, 10pm, and midnight
McConomy Auditorium
Book gives insight into mental illness
By JESSICA RHODES
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
“I am waiting to know what I 
am because I don’t know. For the 
past few days I’ve known I have 
become something else, or am in 
the process of becoming some­
thing else. Maybe something 
good, maybe something bad. 
Maybe something very good. 
Maybe something incredibly bad. 
Maybe both.”
ft
What: Godhead
f— —!Author: Scott Zwiren
Publisher: Dalkey
Archive Press
¥Godhead is a compelling book 
about a man who suffers from 
manic-depression. It is written in 
stream-of-consciousness lyrical 
prose, which portrays not only 
this man’s actions but how he 
thinks as he swings between ex­
alting, euphoric yet disturbing 
mania and emotionless, stifling 
depression.
At age 17 our narrator, 
Godhead, leaves college because
Godhead, by Scott Zwirer, explores 
struggle with manic depression.
he notices that he can’t sleep, eat, 
or concentrate. He feels himself 
slipping into a void. After leaving 
school he bounces between his
mother’s house, 
his father’s 
house, and vari­
ous mental hos­
pitals for nine 
years — never 
really forgiving 
himself for “giv­
ing up” at col­
lege. When he is 
manic, he flies, 
trying to find 
himself, claim­
ing he is Christ 
— he is the 
Godhead. When 
he is depressed 
he sits trying to 
block his 
thoughts that 
play like a skip­
ping record in 
his head—“I’m 
not myself.” 
Eventually, our 
Godhead at­
tempts suicide 
and fails—hor­
ribly.
Godhead is laden with some 
rather humorous Christ imag­
ery dreamt up by our own
GTT/ tel •nb V9vdr8n 
a man’s tedious
Godhead — he takes it upon 
himself to find the second com­
ing of Judas, he searches for the 
devil’s mistress, he finds Mary 
Madgelen — all in his manic 
state.
After he has been “coronated” 
at St. John’s Cathedral in New 
York City he sits on a park bench 
next to a woman; “She says her 
name and I tell her right o\it 
that I think I’m Christ. She asks 
me how old I am. I say twenty- 
six. She says not to worry, thalt 
I got seven good years left.” :
Godhead is one of the most 
interesting and well-rendered 
books I have ever read.
It allows one to actually “see” 
the thoughts and experiences 
of a person suffering from a 
mental illness, leaving the 
pedagogic world of academia 
and actually exploring one 
man’s unrelenting horror — 
“The loops never stop and th,e 
tension never decreases ... rI 
have to kill myself because J 
can’t stand the panic, which be­
comes I feel panic because I’m 
going to kill myself.” Our 
Godhead is speaking. Listen. *
Game proves perfect for holiday season:
Friday Night Doom
by Dizzy Murphy
Heya folks, I’m back! I’m going 
to bespendingThanksgivingwith 
my PC instead of my family and I 
think there may be a few of you in 
the same boat, so here are some 
game suggestions to make your 
Thanksgiving a real treat.
First off, Thanksgiving is a day 
for football, so what better way to 
spend the day than either watch­
ing a football game or playing one 
yourself on your PC. The king of 
football games is back: Madden 
NFL ’97 is out. Madden has al­
ways been the word on football 
games, improving in every edi­
tion, and this time is no excep­
tion. The game features 32-bit 
graphics and fast action as well 
as play by play commenting by 
John Madden and Pat Sumerall 
(the commentator for Fox foot­
ball games).
You may play any of the cur­
rent NFL teams or just create 
your own team with your own 
players. One downside, though, 
you can only play this season 
(96-97). There is no way to play a 
brand new season with different 
schedules. However, Madden 
makes up for this fact by doing 
something no other sports game 
has done before—roster updates 
as the season goes along. Yep, log 
on to www.ea.com and download 
updated rosters for all your teams 
each week as it happens in the 
NFL. Then play those same 
games with different outcomes. 
You may also play with a friend 
via modem or network connec­
tion.
The play control is decent, even 
though those people with 
gamepads will have a definite 
advantage. Ajoystick is a must to 
play this game. The player will 
have to jerk and move pretty fast 
and using the arrows on the key­
board won’t get the job done. An­
other plus is the amount of plays 
you get to choose from and the 
feel and performance of each and 
every player. Barry Sanders runs 
like the wind and Elway has an 
arm that kills.
Folks, this is the game to play 
this fall and winter as the NFL 
season reaches its peak. Go get it 
nowifyoulove football. You won’t 
be disappointed.
A second game I’d like to re­
view is Syndicate Wars. Yep, those 
guys at Bullfrog Productions 
came with the sequel for the PC 
classic Syndicate. This time, it’s 
20 years after the original syndi­
cate, and you control the entire 
world. However, a bunch of people 
with too much free time have 
decided to start a revolutionary 
movement to overthrow your re­
gime. Your answer: peace through 
superior firepower.
You get four agents to move 
around and execute a variety of 
missions that range from “per­
suasion” to outright blowing up 
everything in the city blocks. The 
graphics are excellent and one 
big improvement over the origi­
nal Syndicate is that now you 
may rotate the landscape so you 
may see your players from every 
possible angle. The action is fast 
and there are plenty of explo­
sions as you go after your targets. 
You have plenty of weapons to 
choose from and you get better 
ones as the game goes along and
you do your research.
You may play for both sides df 
this conflict (EuroCorp, the good 
guys, and Church of the Neyy 
Epoch, the bad guys). The play 
control is very easy to compre­
hend as long as you are good with 
your mouse. One warning, 
though: I hope you have -a 
trackball because using a normal 
mouse to move your people 
around will give you a headache. 
Another downside is the instruc­
tions — they tell you hardly any­
thing in order to play the gamç. 
Most of the time it’s just trial and 
error. The good thing is that you 
have a lot of fun doing this trial 
and error.
The game is also available for 
matchups between you and a 
friend or if you want to get vi­
cious, four players can play for 
one team at the same time as long 
as their players all stay in the 
same screen. Even though the 
instructions could be better, once 
you learn the system, you’ll get 
addicted fast. Don’t start playing 
this game during finals! You’ve 
been warned.
jDizzy Murphy would like ev­
eryone to have a great turkey day.
Band’s musical technique lacks consistency
By CHARLES FRYMAN
Tartan Staffwriter
Last week I told you about Meat Beat Manifesto, who changed 
musical styles in the middle of their album Subliminal Sand­
wich. Now I’ve found a band
Who: The Mother Hips 
What: Shootout 
Label: American 
Recordings
that changes styles with almost 
every song. The Mother Hips’ 
new release Shootout jams more 
different musical styles into one 
album than should be allowed 
by law.
The album starts off with “Can’t Sleep at All,” which is basi­
cally a pop song. This is one of a few songs on the album that stops 
suddenly and then builds back into the song; it’s a pretty neat 
effect. The album then moves right into the excellent pseudo-love 
song “Mother Hips,” a song with some poignant lyrics for those 
who have loved and lost. From here the songs just get better.
Unusually, though, the most common musical style on the 
album is country. Even more unusual is that I like it (and if I like 
it, anyone including Motley Crue would like it).
Even in the country songs there is variance, though. “Engage­
ment Ring” is a sad ballad of a broken heart. “Whiskey on a 
Southbound” tells of a good ol’ drunken time. “Single Spoon” is an 
off-beat country tune that sounds like a track from Ween’s new 
country album.
Another song on the album also reminds me of Ween — “So 
Much,” a song that makes extensive use of voice modifiers and 
distortion peddles. Ween isn’t the only band of which The Mother 
Hips remind me. “Honeydew” could pass for a Bob Marley song 
minus the Jamaican accent, and you’d swear “Collected Some 
Nerve” was the Beatles. Some other songs such as “Transit Wind” 
and “Shootout (on 22nd Avenue)” sound somewhat like Phish. 
Both songs have piano and keyboard parts reminiscent of Page 
McConnell’s work. “Picture of Him” sounds like a flattering 
tribute to Brian Wilson and The Beach Boys. This song is straight 
out of the ’50s, complete with rounded harmony.
Even though I listened to The Mother Hips’ Shootout on cas­
sette, there was still a bonus track. The hidden song wasn’t listed 
on the cover and came after a minute of blank tape following the 
last song. This happened to be my favorite song on the album 
which, for lack of a title, I will call “Super Winner.” It starts out 
with some basic drums and the chant, “I want to be a super 
winner too!” Then the song explodes into the challenge, “Play 
hard or play without me!” backed by some nice guitar work. The
song was definitely worth the minute wait.
The Mother Hips managed to surprise me often during this 
album. With songs abruptly stopping and then starting again 
and what seem to be trite lyrics turning out to be clever wordplay, 
each song has its own unique style. It’s also one of the few albums 
I can listen to again and again.
In fact I’m starting to worry what my roommate might do to me 
if he hears it one more time. Despite the risks involved, I wijl 
continue listening to The Mother Hips’ stellar album Shootout.
f * * * * * -¥• * if if if * if if if if if if if -if if -if -'f -if if'
-f.
if
“MISS PENNSYLVANIA USA™ PAGEANT”Official ^BvdunincuHf/
j(ik& USA $aymnb
NO PERFORMING TALENT REQUIRED
If you arc an applicant who 
qualifies and are between the ages of 
18 and 27 by February 1,1998, never 
married and at least a six month resi­
dent of Pennsylvania, thus college 
dorm students are eligible, you could 
be Pennsylvania's representative at 
the CBS-nationally televised .Miss 
USA® Pageant* in February 1998 to 
compete for over $200,000 in cash 
and prizes. The Miss Pennsylvania 
I SA Pageant for 1998 will be pre­
sented at the Palace Inn, Monroeville. 
Pennsylvania, March 1 & 2.1997. The 
new Miss Pennsylvania USA, along 
with her expense paid trip to compete in the CBS-nationally televised Miss 
I SA Pageant, will receive over S2.000 in cash among her many prizes. All 
ladies interested in competing for the title must respond by mail. I.etien> 
must include a recent snapshot, a brief biography, 
address and a phone number WRITE TO:
rw
graa 
6NV— zIs seen : annually v.
MISS PENNSYLVANIA USA PAGEANT jj Canen, Production' c/o Tri-Stale Headquarters - Depl. CA Celebrating.347 Locust Avenue, Washington, PA 15301 -°)«Tri-State Headquarters Phone is (412) 225-5343
issaB
s: m
Application Deadline is December 14, 1996•Miss //S/I* Pageant is pari of the Madison Square Garden Fatuity- Miss Pennsylvania USA** Pageant is "A Carvern Production "
if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if if. if if if if if if
h

---------------------------------------------------

18 November 1996
Vertigo will play Thurs­
day at 7:30,
10 pm, and 12:30 am in 
McConomy Auditorium
Independence Day will
play Friday at 7:30, 10 
pm, and 12:30 am in 
McConomy Auditorium
Courage under Fire will 
play Saturday at 8, 10 
pm, and midnight in 
McConomy Auditorium
Shaft in Africa will play 
Sunday at 8, 10 pm, 
and midnight in 
McConomy Auditorium
Il Postino will play at 
Campbell Memoria 
Chapel at Chatham 
College on Thursday and 
Friday at 7 pm
CALENDAR
Women’s Basketball will start the sea­
son with the CMU Tip Off Tourney on 
Friday and Saturday.
Men’s Basketball starts the season with 
the West Penn Classic on Friday and Sat­
urday.
Men’s and Women’s Indoor Track be­
gins the season with the Doug Raymond 
Invitational at Kent on December 7.
Men’s and Women’s Swimming will com­
pete against Elizabethtown College on 
Sunday at 1 pm.
Chauncey Upson Trio will be playing at 
the Balcony in Shadyside from 9 pm till 
midnight on Wednesday. For more infor­
mation, call the Balcony at 687-0110.
Holiday music will be performed at a joint 
concert between the Pitt Men’s Glee Club 
and Women’s Chorale on December 7 at 3 
pm in the Frick Fine Arts Auditorium. 
Admission is free. For more information, 
call 624-4125.
River City Brass Band presents “Family 
Holidays Concert” on December 7 at 8 pm 
in Carnegie Music Hall. For more informa­
tion, call 322-7222.
around town
Schenley Ice Skating Rink is now open. 
College ID Nights, admission $2 with ID, 
will be held on Tuesday nights from 9:30 to 
11:30 pm, Sunday nights from 7 to 9 pm, 
and Wednesday afternoons from 1:30 to 
3:30 pm. Regular admission is $3. For more 
info, contact Tom Driscoll at 422-6523.
Pittsburgh Compline Choir sings Cho­
ral Compline in Heinz Chapel on the Uni­
versity of Pittsburgh campus every Sunday 
at 8:30 pm. These services will continue 
until November 24. For more information, 
contact the Lutheran University Center at 
682-6886.
'ci’k imirwM •! :
; .*A, '-s
J11 1 I I il il
¦ <*'' .
:
¡Í', • I"- ':!
'ilflr
np*3
• ,
1 moro!
1 f"%\ . V. fflr:.
it r%> r
; \
tlftij:•
1 . % \ ¦ -, 
PS
.... ' !
..................;
is?*??!
Handel’s Messiah will be performed at 
the First Presbyterian Church of Pitts­
burgh on December 8 at 4 pm. Admission is 
free. For more information, call 471-3436.
Orquesta Tropical plays at the Rosebud 
every Thursday from 9:30 pm to 1:30 am. 
They will also be appearing at Cozumel 
Mexican Restaurante in Shadyside on De­
cember 7 from 10:30 pm to 2 am. For more 
information, call 247-3624.
Junior voice recital featuring Danielle 
DeFrancis, soprano, and Cheryse McLeod, 
soprano, will be on Saturday at 5 pm in the 
Alumni Concert Hall of the College of Fine 
Arts Building. Admission is free.
Y Music Society presents mezzo-soprano 
Jennifer Larmore, who recently sang the 
Olympic Hymn at the Closing Ceremonies 
of the 1996 Olympic Games, at Carnegie 
Music Hall on Sunday at 8 pm. For more 
information, please contact Mayda Roth at 
521-8010, ext. 500.
Earache recording artists A.C. play an 
all ages 8 pm show at the Oakland Beehive 
tonight with local bands Blunderbuss, Shale 
and Master Mechanic. Tickets are $6 at the 
door. Call 687-7961 for info.
CFA Holiday Concert, featuring the Con­
cert Choir, Repertory Chorus, and Carnegie 
Mellon Philharmonic, will be held on De­
cember 6 at noon in the CFA Lobby. Some 
of the selections include excerpts from “The 
Nutcracker” by Tchaikovsky.
Christmas Concerts, by the Heinz Chapel 
Choir, are sold out.
Mike Taylor Territory Band will give a 
jazz concert on Saturday at 7:30 pm in the 
Frick Fine Arts Building at Pitt. Admission 
is $3 for students. For more information, 
call Marilyn Locker at 624-4125.
Chatham Baroque presents its annual 
costumes and candlelight concerts on No­
vember 22 and 23 at 8 pm, and November
24 at 3 pm in the James Laughlin Music 
Center at Chatham College. The program 
showcases Italian and German chamber 
works and trio sonatas dating from the 
17th century. Tickets are $12 for general 
admission and $8 for students. For more 
information, contact Julie Andrijeski at 
244-1159.
Kayagum, a 12-string Korean traditional 
zither will be performed by Hee-Sun Kim at 
a concert on Wednesday at 8. pm in the 
Frick Fine Arts Auditorium. Admission is 
$3 for students. For more information, con­
tact Marilyn Locker at 624-4125.
Javanese Gamelan Ensemble, of the
University of Pittsburgh, will be perform­
ing on Thursday at 7 pm in 309 Bellefield 
Hall. Admission is free. For more informa­
tion, contact Marilyn Locker at 624-4125.
What Tissue Engineering Means to Us 
will be presented by Dr. Peter Johnson on 
Tuesday at 4 pm in the second floor audito­
rium of Mellon Institute oh Fifth Avenue. 
For more information, contact Doreen 
Grasso at 383-9703.
Union Activism will be the topic of 
Staughton Lynd’s presentation tonight at 
7:30 pm at the Adamson Wing in Balter 
Hall. Labor’s history and future will be 
discussed during this talk.
The Physics of Star Trek is a multimedia 
lecture by Dr. Lawrence Krauss of Case 
Western University that will take place 
tonight at 8 pm in McConomy Auditorium. 
Admission is free.
Writing for Broadcast will be presented 
by Craig Windham, newscaster/reporter 
with National Public Radio in Washington. 
The talk will take place on November 19 
from noon to 1:20 pm in Porter Hall 100. 
For more information, call the English 
Department at x8-1073.
Admission is free, but a requested $2 dona­
tion will benefit The Los Angeles Leagues 
Presentation by the Drama Department of 
CMU. For more information, please email 
matthew2@andrew.cmu.edu.
Holiday Dazzler is a package deal that 
combines a visit to “Toy Bop” and “Nut­
cracker” on the dates December 26-30. 
Tickets are $40 and limited. Advance pur­
chase is required by December 20. For 
more information, contact Trish Beatty at 
454-6372. To order tickets, call 454-9107.
The Living Room, directed by Chris 
Rickert, will be presented by Scotch ’n’ 
Soda at 8 pm on Friday and Saturday, and
2 and 8 pm on Sunday in Rangos Hall in the 
University Center. Tickets are $3 for stu­
dents and $5 for non-students.
Twelfth Night will be presented by 
Carnegie Mellon Drama on Thursday 
through Saturday and December 3—7 at 
the Kr.esge Theatre in the College of Fine 
Arts building. Tuesday to Saturday perfor­
mances start at 8 pm with matinees sched­
uled at 2 pm on November 23 and Decem­
ber 7. A special performance on November
25 will benefit the ’97 Los Angeles League. 
For more information, call the Drama box 
office at x8-2407.
readings
Common Grounds Coffee House: Fall 
1996poetry reading series will feature David 
Stasenko and Erin Fleming on Tuesday, 
November 19 at 7 pm. For more informa­
tion, call 362-1190.
Beehive Reading Series. November 21: 
Amy Taney, Karen Themstrup. All read­
ings held upstairs at the Beehive Coffee­
house, 3807 Forbes Avenue. 8 pm, open 
mike; 8:30 pm, scheduled readers. For 
more information call 441-2859.
Dance Alloy will begin its season with Fall 
Passage at Byham Theater on Saturday at 
8 pm. Tickets range from $10-$24. For 
more information, call 363-4321.
Happy Days will be presented by City 
Theatre through Sunday. The director and 
cast are all CMU professors. For more in­
formation, call 431-CITY.
Big Wide Empty, a new play by Matthew 
South worth, will be given a reading in the 
Kresge Theatre on Sunday at 7 pm.
museums
24 November 1996
display at the Hewlett Gallery until No. 
vember 24. For more information, contact 
Petra Fallaux at x8-3877.
Art and the Animal is a new exhibition at 
the Carnegie Museum of Natural History 
that opens on Saturday. Including work 
from Robert Bateman and Carl Brenders 
the exhibition depicts 54 animal species 
portrayed in natural habitats. For more 
information, contact Sandra Paul Lepri at
622-3361.
Pittsburgh Regional History Center pre- 
sents “Toy Bop,” an exhibit of toys, dolls 
and games from the ’50s and ’60s which 
runs through January 6. For more infor­
mation, contact Trish Beatty at 454-6372.on campus
Handcrafted artworks will be on display 
and sold at the Pittsburgh Center for the 
Arts in Shadyside, Arcade Shops in down­
town, Station Square, and in Mt. Lebanon, 
through December 24. Also, an auction will 
take place at the Shadyside location for 200 
greenware items such as bowls and vases, 
through December 17. For more info, con­
tact Jenny Kastronis at 361-0873, xl04.
Boxes is an abstract work that will be on
Seed Grants are being offered by the Pitts­
burgh Tissue Engineering Initiative for up 
to $20,000 for six-month projects. Applica­
tions are due on Friday. For more informa­
tion, call 383-9703.
BMI Student Composer Awards Com­
petition will award $16,000 to young com­
posers. There are no limitations to instru­
ment, style or length of work submitted, 
and the prizes range from $500 to $3,000. 
Applications are available from Ralph N. 
Jackson, Director, BMI Student Composer 
Awards, 320 West 57th Street, New York, 
NY 10019. The postmark deadline is Feb­
ruary 7,1997. For more information, con­
tact Jackson at (212) 830-9703.
The College Fund/UNCF is offering 
UNCF/Merck Science Fellowships targeted 
at African-American students. The appli­
cations are available through the 
chairperson’s office of the department. 
Applications must be postmarked by Janu­
ary 15, 1997. Also, 15 research scholar­
ships will be awarded to current juniors for 
a tuition scholarship of up to $25,000 and 
two summer internship stipends totaling 
$10,000. For more information, contact 
Jacqui Burton at (703) 205-3476.
SDC Day will be this Friday. A table will 
be set up on the second floor of the Univer­
sity Center with freebies, giveaways and 
information about SDC. Give your opin­
ions on issues concerning campus life.
Dynamic individuals who are interested 
in becoming Resident Assistants can at­
tend the following meeting on Wednesday 
from 6 to 7 pm in the Pake Room in the UC.
Senior James Buck protects the puck in a 6-2 victory over Robert Morris College on November 2.Anthony Chao/Tartan Photo Manager
