Campus Chest 
Chairman 
Speaks— 
See Page 4
VOL. 48—No. 4
Injuries 
Discussed— 
See Page 5
Tech Rolls Over Johns Hopkins 25-0
Student Council Has Passed . 
Resolution For Student Union
By James J. Murphy
One of the most businesslike of all Council meetings took place 
last Wednesday at the Carnegie Union. In addition to passing the 
C Club budget over some protests that it was not presented in 
the ¦ correct form, a general unlimited discussion was held on Mr. 
Paul Pollinger’s school spirit con-* 
stitutional amendment of the pre-
vious meeting. Noteworthy in con­
nection with both of these hap­
penings was the fact that the vast 
majority of Council members held 
the floor at one time or another, 
and that both discussions took full 
cognizance of the .actual power 
of the Student Council.
Although the C Club budget was 
passed, it was only because that 
organization had already contract­
ed for various services in connec­
tion with the C Club Dance. A 
motion was passed warning the 
group to use the correct organi­
zation of information in future 
proposed budgets or Council may 
refuse to allow other C Club 
dances to be held.
Mr. Pollinger’s amendment was 
defeated, but only after a long 
discussion including an unsuc­cessful attempt to call wc ques­
tion. The general consensus of 
opinion was that while many 
factors make it difficult for Coun­
cil to build school spirit, this is no 
reason to give the project up as 
a bad job. “If at first you don’t 
succeed, try, try again” seemed to 
be the dominant feeling.
Campus Chest
Under “New Business,” Council 
passed the allocation Of funds for 
1954 Campus Chest, which is giv­
en at the end of this article, and 
[Continued on page 8]
Rushing Rules 
Changed At Last 
Council Meeting
The second meeting of the 
Council of Fraternity Presidents 
was held on Monday, October 4 at 
the Beta Sigma Rho fraternity 
house. CFP is the governing body 
of the 12 social fraternities on 
campus and each fraternity pres­
ident has one vote.
The main business was the re­
vision of the rushing rules for 
next year. At the first meeting a 
committee of three was set up to 
review the present system and 
suggest changes. Three main points 
of revision were suggested by this 
committee and passed as offered.
The first proposal was that each 
fraternity will be allowed to hold 
three date parties next year in­
stead of the two that has been in 
effect for several years. The sec 
ond change is that meals can not 
be served to freshmen for a month 
after the Saturday after rush 
week. The old ruling was the 
same except it stated Wednesday 
instead of Saturday. The last 
change frees upperclassmen from 
all rushing regulation except that 
transfer students must obtain six 
signatures on the house visitation 
cards.
Next on the order of business 
was the approval of the budget 
for the coming year. This was in 
the neighborhood of $3500. CFP 
obtains its operating funds by 
assessing each pledge, active, and 
social member of the fraternities. 
This year the amount will be 
tContinued on page 8]
Student Council * 
Beginning Campus 
Chest Campaign
“Give one day’s tuition.”
With that appeal Carnegie 
Tech’s 1954 Campus Chest cam­
paign, headed by Simon Kellman, 
will get underway October 28 and 
extend through November 3. (See 
letter-on page four.)
The Campus Chest is Carnegie 
Tech’s sum contribution to na­
tional and local charities such as 
the March of Dimes, the Red 
Cross, National Cancer Fund, and 
the Pittsburgh Community Chest
which supports 92 agencies. The weeK oi me tampus ^nesi cam­
paign is the only time that Tech 
students are solicited for charity 
drives. Campaigning committee 
members will visit all classes on 
campus at that time to solicit 
donations.
Working with Mr. Kellman are 
Dorothy McGinley and Rick Dill 
who was head of the 1953 cam­
paign. They have set no goal; 
it is believed that as citizens of 
the college community, Tech stu­
dents will assume the responsi­
bility of civic-minded persons to 
support worthy charities, and 
contribute generously to this 
year’s Campus Chest.
The committee is enlisting the 
help of campus organizations in 
the drive, as well as that of in­
dividual students.
Warner Prizes 
Announced
From a special fund provided 
by President Warner, the depart­
ment of chemistry each fall 
awards two Warner Prizes in 
Chemistry to undergraduate stu­
dents majoring in chemistry.
One Warner Prize in chemis­
try will be awarded to the sopho­
more student majoring in chemis­
try who has had the best scholas­
tic record for his freshman year. 
At the option of the recipient, this 
prize will be either a suitable 
“Handbook” or membership for 
three years in the chapter of stu­
dent affiliates of the American 
Chemical Society.
Another Warner Prize in Chem 
istry will be awarded to the senior 
student majoring in chemistry, 
who in the opinion of the faculty 
of the department excels in 
scholarship and professional 
promise. This prize will be mem­
bership in the American Chem­
ical Society for a period of three 
years.
The recipients will be selected 
by a departmental committee con­
sisting of Professors Fugassi 
(Chairman), Carlin, and Parr, and 
the awards will be made at a 
meeting of the undergraduatè 
seminar sometime in October.
CAT Ground Defense Outstanding 
As Blue Jays Net Minus 17 Yards
By Jim Lacey *
The red-hot offensive machine of the Tartan Plaid continued to roll last Saturdav 
Forbes0Field * ^ ^ J°hnS Hopkins Blue Ja^ in the home °Pener at
The Blue Jays put up a stiff defense in the first half, while absorbing a terrific physi­
cal beating from a far more 
experienced, larger, and fast­
er charging Tech line. Tech 
had trouble getting started in 
the first half, but tallied once late 
in the second quarter. The drive 
began when Frank Wengrzyn re­
covered a “Medic” fumble on the 
Tech 45 and ended with Marshall 
Brown going over for the TD. The 
try for the extra point was low 
and to the left. This is how the 
first half ended.
From the start of the second 
half until the end of the game it 
was all Tech. The rout began early 
in the third period as Tech held 
after the kick-off forcing the Blue 
Jays to punt. A plunge from the 
two-yard line to paydirt by Jesse 
Quatse, capped a drive that was
s.narki'H hv V OL .4 8888888—Kennedy, and Marshall Brown.
Late in the period, the Plaid 
thunder struck again, as Bill Ken-A familiar scene 
against Johns Hopkins, 
in the third quarter.
photo by Toia
¦Tech backs getting loose for substantial gains 
This time Kennedy nets about 20 yards late
Statistics
Production Staff Is 
Named For “Lysistrata
By Marjo King
“Lysistrata,” which will be presented by the students of the 
drama department under the direction of Professor Charles Werner 
Moore from October 23 to November 3, is being prepared for by a 
competent production cast.
Like many Greek plays, Charles*
Holt’s adaptation of Aristophanes’
“Lysistrata” includes a chorus 
and group dancing. Original mu­
sic has been composed by William
Henry and choreography is being 
done by Gertrude Bunzel, assist­
ed by Nancy Cole and Jeanne- 
Mann Dickinson, all Carnegie 
Tech students. Lighting will be 
handled by Gary Smith, costumes 
by Leo Myer and settings by 
Lloyd Burlingame.
Stage manager for the produc­
tion is Jere Sausaman with Wal­
ter Stanwick as his assistant. Do­
ing the electrical work for the 
scenes are Joseph Abel, Steve 
Arnold, John Bos, Sue Stector 
and Thomas Pincu, supervised by 
W. K. Longyear. Michael Pol­
lack, head of properties, is assisted, 
by Nancy Dickinson, Brooke 
Howard, Marlou Jahn, Irene 
Baird, Jill Hirshenhorn and Don­
na Krochmal.
Clyde Sharp is in charge of 
sound. The many special projects 
that are involved in a dramatic 
production are being taken care 
of by Barry Buchter, Vince Ro 
meo, Barbara Clark and Bob 
Fields. Mary Weaver and Sue 
Gordon are heading the costume 
department with Yaroslaw Le- 
vyky as house manager and Les­
lie Millman as head usher. -
Students are reminded that 
tickets for this production may be 
ford, Richard Profio, Paul Sieffert, 
obtained free of charge on Octo 
ber 14 at Room 100 of the Fine 
Arts building upon presentation 
of ID cards.
Seventeen Cadets 
Outstanding In 
Military Studies
Seventeen cadets have been 
designated by the ROTC depart­
ment, in collaboration with ad­
ministrative authorities, as Dis­
tinguished Military students in 
accordance with student regula­
tions.
The students so designated 
have, in the opinion of the ROTC 
department, exhibited those qual­
ities of leadership, character, and 
scholarship which produce a good 
officer and citizen.
Topping the list are Philip 
Jeske, Corps of Engineers, and 
Stephen Horensky, Signal Corps, 
who have shown the most prom­
ise, in the opinion of the ROTC 
department, of becoming capable 
leaders.
Others selected from the Corps ! 
of Engineers are, in order of; 
merit: Lawrence Andersen, Ed- j 
ward Miller, Richard Heckei. 
Stanford Rosenberg. James Craw- j 
Andrew Stedry, Jack McNall, ; 
Bartlett Bertocci, and James i 
Sh river.
The other ranking students 
from the Signal Corps include: 
David Raymer, Gerald Houck. 
Webster Howard, and Richard 
Dragan.
TECH JOHNS HOPKINS
18.................... First downs ............... 5
16.. ..........  By rushing ....................... 2
1................... By passing ...........#••• 1................. By penalties .................... O
309........... Net gain rushing . . minus 17
13............... Passes attempted ................ 14
 2............. Passes completed ....... 7
2........... Passes intercepted ........... 2
49........ Net gain passing ...............116
358............. Total yards gained.............99
2.......................... Punts .......................... 7
33.5........... Punting average ...........42 3 7
7.................... Punt returns .................... 0
75...... Punt returns, yards .......... O
 1............... Kick off returns ................ 1
12.... Kick off returns, yards .... 67
 2........ Interception returns ........... 2
27. . Yards interceptions returned .. 5
3 ...................... Fumbles *........................ 5
2 .........Ball lost on fumbles .............. 3
6..................... Penalties ................. 5
40...........   Yards penalized ................. 55
nedy swept end for eleven yards 
and a tally. Again the try for the 
extra point was off the mark. 
Tech’s final tally came on a nine 
yard pass from John Tucci, a 
freshman from Clairton, to end 
Don Hrosik. Roy DeVries’s try 
for the conversion was good, to 
make the final score 25-0.
Tech missed several scoring op­
portunities due to penalties and 
intercepted passes, and an inept­
ness of the ends to hang on to sev­
eral TD bound passes. Early in the 
fourth period a backfield in mo­
tion penalty rubbed out a 30-yard 
touchdown run by Miller, and a 
clipping penalty erased a beautiful 
25-yard run by John Tucci to the 
Blue Jays’ 3 yard line.
As in Tech’s previous victories 
over Westminster and Lafayette, 
the credit belonged mainly to the 
[Continued on page 51
Technical
There will be an important 
general meeting of the entire 
Technical staff and anyone 
wishing to join the Technical 
staff.
The meeting will be this 
Friday night. October 15 at 
7:30 p.m. in the conference 
room on the second floor of 
Carnegie Union.
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGYTUES., OCTOBER 12, 1954

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, October 12, 1954
Job Placement of June 
Seniors A Big Success
The placement of last years graduates proved to have been quite 
successful. All Engineering and Science, Printing Management, In­
dustrial Management, and Industrial Administration students received 
jobs. About 25 percent of these students remained in the Greater 
Pittsburgh area and the rest are4 
working in all sections of the ^
Now At Pittsburgh 
Playhouse For Run
country. Two hundred forty-sev­
en of those who received a Bach­
elor of Science degree are contin­
uing their education in graduate 
schools. „
The graduates are engaged in 
all types of activities. Some are in 
training programs, research and 
development, while others are in 
engineering design, production 
and sales.
The salaries have increased 
since last year with a medium of 
$370 a month for a Bachelor de­
gree; $425 for a Masters and $560 
ior a Doctor’s degree.
The graduate students are 
working in 135 different compan­
ies at the present, which is a good 
spread. Six hundred companies 
were seeking employees and of 
these, 300 sent erpresentatives to 
the school. The Bureau of Place­
ments set up 4,000 individual in­
terviews. Fifty additional com­
panies wanted to send representa­
tives but no students were avail­
able to see them. The companies 
that sent representatives were 
highly selective and this year they 
are going to be more selective as 
the demands for engineering and 
science majors will continue.
The companies coming here 
are interested in the all-around 
student and how he has developed 
intellectually and personally. The 
factors that they consider are ac­
ademic standing, participation in 
extra-curricular activities, work 
experience, and personal qualifi­
cation. These include such things 
as the ability to express himself, 
his attitude, interest, and motiva­
tion. A good personal appearance 
is necessary to the extent that mlgbt be sloppy in work.
Most of the women do not get 
jobs right after graduation due 
to the portion who get married or 
engaged. There are many compan­
ies who send representatives for 
secretaries, dieticians, and sci­
ence majors. The demand for 
teachers is up, including the Pitt- 
burgh area.
Last Saturday evening; the 
Pittsburgh Playhouse opened its 
new season with the comedy hit 
“My Three Angels,” and is now 
making plans for the second play 
,of the year.
Opening the 1954-1955 season 
in the Hamlet street side of Pitts­
burgh’s Community theater, the 
Playhouse got its new year off with 
a laugh.
“My Three Angels” is the laugh­
able and lovable story of three con-1 
victs in a French penal colony 
who turn all their stealing, em­
bezzling, and murder ability to­
ward a perfect Christmas for a 
destitute family on the island. 
The leading roles of the three 
convicts are played by Playhouse 
veterans Edward Mack, Richard 
Walsh, and William Skelton.
With “My Three Angels” off on a 
good run, the Playhouse is making 
plans for the second production 
of the season, the George Bernard 
Shaw comedy hit “Pygmalion,” 
which opens in the Craft Avenue 
Theater on October 16.
This delightful romantic com­
edy tells the story of a little cock­
ney maid who is re-fashioned in­
to one of England’s outstanding 
ladies. Gloria Ab%ou and John 
Ragin are sharing the leads in 
this play which is being directed 
by Frederick Burleigh.
“Pygmalion” in the Playhouse’s 
Craft Avenue Theater will run 
simultaneously __with_ J^My Three 
forth for the next three weeks 
in the Hamlet Street Theater.
Warner Named 
To Committee
Dr. J. C. Warner has been 
named to a newly-created general 
committee on nuclear engineering 
and science.
The committee was formed by 
the Engineers Joint Council, rep­
resenting members of eight major 
engineering societies in the Unit­
ed States, and the American 
Chemical Society.
The committee, which is made 
up of 11 men, will deal with the 
engineering problems that arise 
from the application of atomic 
energy to industrial purposes. It 
will also help plan an interna­
tional conference to discuss the 
“atomic peace pool” suggested by 
President Eisenhower.
Drama
The drama department is 
now casting for its next play, 
“High Tor” by Maxwell An­
derson. It will be directed by 
Henry Boettcher, head of the 
drama department, and will 
be shown from December 2 
U> 11.
Debating Society 
Elects Officers 
For Next Year
The CIT Debating Society held 
its election of officers for the cur­
rent school year at its first meet­
ing of the season.
Elected president of the organ­
ization was Simon Kellman, a 
senior in the physics department. 
Other officers are Jack Belkin, 
team captain; Allan Zuckerwar, 
treasurer; and June Sochatoff, 
secretary.
The team is currently making 
plans for the round-robin Intra- 
City Debate Tournaments with 
Pitt, Duquesne, and Mount Mercy. 
The first big tournament will be 
the cross-exam tournament held 
at Pitt in December.
Auction
Alpha Phi Omega will hold 
an auction of the past year’s 
collection of items from lost 
and found on Tuesday, Octo­
ber 19 at 11:30.
The auction will be held 
in front of Fine Arts, weather 
permitting, and will provide 
students with an opportunity 
to get the coats, scarves, note­
books and other items that 
they have been wanting. 
There will even be a real auc­
tioneer.
HEY GANG!
Don’t wait-Nmv is the time to reserve 
Richard?s Barn for your Fall Parties
for further information call
PL 1-8159 or PE 4-5282
Candidates
Monday, October 18, is the 
date for nominating the five 
Homecoming Queen Candi­
dates. These five will be 
chosen from ten girls select­
ed from four Margaret Morri­
son departments and Fine 
Arts.
The five nominees will be 
presented in Skibo at 12:30, 
Tuesday, October 26, and 
elections will take place the 
following Tuesday.
The campaign will be pri­
marily a picture campaign.
Band Performs 
At Tech Game
Last Saturday afternoon the 
Kiltie Band made its first appear­
ance of the year in Forbes Field 
at the Johns Hopkins-Tech game. 
The theme of their half-time ac­
tivity was an abstraction and a 
gathering of the clan.
The band marched onto the 
field and split into three lines 
which merged in the center and 
split again. The famed “Kilties” 
then formed 12 lines and marched 
down the field, again mixing up 
while they played “Dear Old 
Tech.” On the singing chorus of 
this, the members went into a 
caterpillar formation with the 
caterpillar’s legs moving in time 
with the music.
Next on the program was the 
traditional Scottie dog (his tail 
wagging, of course) and an arf- 
arf rendered by the band mem­
bers. The bagppiers then took over 
while the band marched in “JH” 
and “CT” formations. While in 
the last formation the band play-
- -a No B
sung by the entire Tech rooting 
section. After this, the band 
marched off the field.
Although this ended their half- 
time activities, five members made 
an appearance during the third 
quarter doing their version of a 
Scotch dance. The constant cheer­
ing of the band all through the 
game has led many observers to 
believe this organization more 
than outcheers the rest of the sup­
porters at the football games.
After the game the band 
marched out of Forbes field and 
up Forbes street followed by a 
large group of students. Then 
the band proceeded to the cut 
where the cheerleaders took 
charge and held a small pep rally.
The band will travel to Geneva 
next week to perform at the next 
Tech football game.
photo by Her!
Shown above are ilie cheerleaders going through their compli­
cated maneuvers at MoreWood Gardens. This was in preparation 
for the pep-rally that was held last Friday night before the Johns 
Hopkins football game. The procession, led by the Kiltie Band and 
the cheerleaders, started from the dormitories and ended up in the 
Tech bowl where a bonfire had been built. The attendance was far 
below that expected for the first home football game.
Over The Skibo Table
B Joseph A. Szewc
“Confusion” reigned at Forbes field on Saturday. The many press 
boxes which are situated at various points of the stadium had the 
WEDO radio boys in a dither, and as a result, they set up their equip­
ment in a dead booth. The WEDO staff couldn’t understand why they 
were having technical difficulty until they were notified in the mid­
dle of the first period. By the time equipment had been moved, the 
first quarter had ended, and a recap of the initial stanza was neces­
sary. Methinks they need a WRCT man.
* * *
Morewood girls living near the roof pay attention. Rumor 
has it that two Tech summer school students were living-it-up” 
and just happened to sneak past the desk and into the elevator. 
They apparently got onto the roof and wrote their names some­
where on the bricks or tile. The culprits were stopped by the
housemother on the way down, but were able to get away. 
Question: Are their names still up there.* * *
.uimc yJoay8ame4s \-viigieH.uicttlv«ia to llie Vaisltj C Club for the 
great dance on Saturday night . „ . The morals of this school must be 
down as compared with a similar period of time last year. Wait till 
Mickey Spillane writes a new book ... A room in McGill Hall has a 
large movie poster over one of the beds. The title of the movie is 
“Susan Slept Here”
* * *
Many students have voiced the opinion that Skibo should 
institute a new fountain service. This soda fountain would sell 
the ordinary run of sodas, banana splits, malts and floats, and 
would stay open a little later in the evenings. These students 
also would like to know why other schools have such a service 
and we don’t. Maybe, a new Student Union with an added malt 
shop would be the answer.* * *
One thing that was noted at the game last wet& was the lack of 
football programs.' Many people were having trouble telling the play­
ers apart. The old adage that . . . “you can’t tell the players without 
a scorecard” is just as true today as ever.
Pittsburgh 
Symphony Orchestra
WILLIAM STEINBERG, Musical Director and Conductor
28th SEASON OPENS OCT. 22 and 24
FRIDAY Evenings and SUNDAY Afternoons at SYRIA MOSQUE
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES
20 Concerts $”7.00 1 20 Concerts $^V .00
Afternoon Series J = Evening Series
Tickets: Mrs. King in Ihe Registrar's Office
9 to 3:30

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, October 12, 1954—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page *
On Camposwith 
Max Slrojman
(Author of “Barefoot Boy With Cheek,” et*.)
STUDYING MADE SIMPLE
I have passed my thirty-fifth birthday, and my dewlaps droop and my transmission needs oil. More and more my eyes turn inward, reminiscing1, sifting the past, browsing lovingly among my souvenirs, 
for at my time of life memories are all a man has.And most precious are the memories of college. It still makes my pulses quicken and my old glands leap to life just to think of it. Ah, I was something then! “Swifty” my friends used to call me, or “Rakehell” or “Candle-at-both-Ends” or “Devil Take the Hind­most.” My phone was ringing all the time. “Come on, Devil-Take-the- 
Hindmost,” a cohort would say, “let’s pile into the old convertible and live up a storm. I know a place that serves all-bran after hours.”So it went—night after mad night, kicks upon kicks, sport that wrinkled care derides, laughter holding both his sides. “Come on, “Candle-at-Both-Ends,” my companions would plead, “sing us an­other two hundred verses of Sweet Violets.”
“No, my companions,” I would reply with a gentle but firm smile, "we must turn homeward, for the cock has long since crowed.”“ ’Twas not the*cock,” they would answer, laughing merrily, “ ’Twas Sam Leghorn doing his imitation of a chicken!”And, sure enough, ’twas. Crazy, madcap Sam Leghorn. How Imiss his gaiety and wit! I never tired of hearing his imitation of a chicken, nbr he of giving it. I wonder what’s become of him. Last I heard he was working as a weathervane in Tacoma.
Oh, we were a wild and jolly gang in those days. There was SamLeghorn with his poultry imitations. There was Mazda Watts who always wore a lampshade on her head. There was Freddie Como who stole a dean. There was Cap Queeg who always carried two steel marbles in his hand. There was Emily Hamp who gilded her house mother.
Yes, we were wild and jolly, and the wildest and jolliest was I... But not right away. I blush to admit that in my freshman year I was dull, stodgy, and normal. I finally corrected this loathesome condition, but for a while it was touch and go. And, dear reader— especially dear freshman reader—be warned: it can happen to you.The makers of Philip Morris have bought this space so I can bring you a message ¿ach week. There is no more important message I can give you than the following: College can be beautiful. Don’t louse it up with studying.
That was my mistake. At first, cowed by college, I studied so much that I turned into a dreary, blinking creature, subject to dry-mouth and fainting fits. For a year this dismal condition prevailed—but then I learned the real function of college. And what is that? I’ll tell you what: to prepare you to face the realities of the world. And what do you need to face the realities of the world? I’ll tell you what—poise, that’s what you need. And how do you get poise? I’ll tell you how: not by keeping your nose in a book, you may be sure!Relax! Live! Enjoy! . . . That’s how you get poise. Of course you have to study, but be poised about it. Don’t be like some clods who spend every single night buried in a book. Not only are they not learning poise; they are also eroding their eyeballs. The truly poised student knows better than to make the whole semester hideous with studying. He knows that the night before the exam is plenty of time to study.
Yes, I’ve heard that lots of people have condemned cramming. Buthave you heard wno tnese people fere; ^ ncj v**v. —-----* Tpower interests, that’s who! They want you to sit up late and study every night so you’ll use more electricity and enrich their bulging 
coffers. Don’t be a sucker!
Clearly, cramming is the only sensible way to study. But beware! Even cramming can be overdone. Take it easy. On the night before your exam, eat a hearty dinner. Then get a date and go out and eat another hearty dinner. Then go park someplace and light up a 
Philip Morris. Enjoy the peaceful pleasure it offers. Don t go
home until you’re good and relaxed. .
Once at home, relax. Do not, however, fall asleep. This is too relaxed To insure wakefulness, choose a chair that is not too comfortable. For example, take a chair with nails pointing up through the seat—or a chair in which somebody is already sitting.Place several packs of Philip Morris within easy reach. Good mild tobacco helps you to relax, and that’s what Philip Morris is— good mild tobacco. But Philip Morris is more than just good mild tobacco; it is also cigarette paper to keep the good mild tobacco from 
spilling all over the place. ,Now you’ve got the uncomfortable chair and the Philip Morris. Now you need light. Use the lit end of your Philip Morris. Do not 
enrich the electric power interests.Read your textbook in a slow, poised manner. Do not underline. It 
reduces the re-sale value of your book. Always keep your books in prime re-sale condition; you never know when you’ll need getaway
money. , ... ,As you read you will no doubt come across many things you don t understand. But don’t panic. Relax. Play some records. Remove a 
callus. Go out and catch some night crawlers.Relax. Be poised. Stay loose. And remember—if things really close 
in, you can always take up teaching.’ ©Max Shulman, 1954
This column is brought to you by the makers of PHILIP MORRIS 
who think you would enjoy their cigarette.
Secretarial Club 
Wants You; New 
Officers Elected
They want you! All of you who 
are new to Tech’s campus and 
are in the secretarial department. 
What do they want you for? To 
join the secretarial club of course. 
Naturally you will want to know 
more about it, so here goes.
This year the club’s officers 
have chosen as the theme—you. 
Since the individual is the basis 
for an organization, they thought 
the thing to do was to get to 
know each other better. The first 
meeting, which was held on Sep­
tember 29, was a get acquainted 
meeting. Each succeeding meet­
ing will have a different program 
which, it is hoped, will be of in­
terest to all. The secretarial club 
meets once every month. There 
is always a program planned 
which includes entertainment, re­
freshments, and, if at all possible,
WRIT
Schedule
Tuesday
7:00—Sign on, News 
7:15—Serenade in Blue 
7:30—Radio Federation 
8:00—The Masters Perform 
9:00—Career Hour 
10:00—RCA Victor Hour 
11:00—News 
11:05—Night Train 
11:55—Sign Off
Wednesday 
7:00—Sign on, News 
7:15—Campus Hilights 
7:30—Montovani 
8:00—Musical History 
9:45—Democratic Campaign 
10:00—RCA Victor Hour 
11:00—News 
11:05—Night Train 
11:55—Sign’ Off
Thursday 
7:00—Sign on, News 
7:15—Serenade in Blue 
7:30—Radio Federation 
8:00—Ye Olde Curiosity Shoppe 
9:00—Career Hour 
10:00—RCA Victor Hour 
11:00—News 
11:05—Night Train 
11:55—Sign Off
Friday 
7:00—Sign on, News 
7:15—-Navy Star Time 
7:30—Radio Federation 
8:30—Light Music 
9:00—Career Hour 
10:00—RCA Victor Hour 
11:00—News 
11:05—TGIF Club 
11:55—Sign Off
Sunday 
l:45-r-Sign on, News 
2:00—WRCT Symphony Hour 
3:00—Sunday Pops Concert 
6:00—News
6:05—Album of Favorites 
7:00—Penthouse Serenade 
8:00—News 
8:05—Concert Hall 
11:00—News 
11:05—Night Train 
11:55—Sign Off
T:ou—sign on' Mews 
7:15—Campus Hilights 
7:30—Radio Federation 
8:30—French Masterworks 
9:00—Career Hour 
10:00—RCA Victor Hour 
11:00—News 
11:05—Night Train 
11:55—Sign OffBeginning this week, several 
new programs have been added 
to our schedule: The Career Hour, 
Ye Olde Curiosity Shoppe, and 
Radio Federation, to name a few.
Ye Olde Curiosity Shoppe be­
gins its second year on WRCT this 
Thursday night when it presents 
hit songs of the 1920’s and 30’s.
Radio Federation is also unique 
in that it does not originate in 
training school located on Clyde 
Street. They will present recorded 
show tunes and dramatic produc­
tions throughout the year.
These are just some of the spe­
cial features of your campus radio 
station. Keep posted by watching 
for our program schedule each 
week in the TARTAN.
a speaker.
The officers this year, Nancy 
Fee, president; Joan Schell, vice 
president; Dee Prus, secretary, 
and Anne Barnes, treasurer, aided 
by the newly elected class repre­
sentatives, June Hoechstetter, 
freshman, Marnie Lewis, sopho­
more, Lavelle Hirshberg, junior, 
and Kathy Hendrix, senior, will 
work to bring to you different 
and enjoyable programs and en­
tertainment.
The next meeting is being plan­
ned • for Wednesday, October 20, 
at 4:00 p.m. in the Rec Hall at 
MMCC. The officers hope to have 
a large crowd and are particu­
larly interested in having the 
freshmen attend.
CUDDLE BRENDEL
1216 Wood Run Ave.
oft Brighton Road
Dancing Nightly
no cover—no minimum
FOR COMPLETE 
HARDWARE, PAINT, and 
GIFT SELECTIONS 
• TRY US FIRST •
Oakland Hardware
3606 Forbes St. - MA 1-0923
The Observer
Life is a jest, and all things show it;
I thought so once, but now I know it.
. . . all looks yellow to the jaundiced eye.
(Quotations from Alexander Pope.)
* * * *
I saw a freshman chewed out last week. A soft-boiled 
kumquat of a matron did the chewing. But the kid in the 
cap had asked for it. He had taken a dragon by the tail. He 
had carried a book of his own into*the bookstore.
And that was his initial impression of the bookstore. 
And that was one of his initial impressions of CIT. And that 
was why the disillusioned young man had his hand slapped.
Maturity is a frightening thing. It means that an indi­
vidual must respect a human being and his motivations, what­
ever they may be. We suppose that its possessor must believe 
in the dignity of man—even a young man. Furthermore, ma­
turity carries with it the pleasant responsibility to demon­
strate its virtues to those who ase as yet unfamiliar with its 
advantages.
An Aristotelean query: Who embodies dignity and ma­
turity to a greater degree? The shopkeeper who cpcks a 
jaundiced and distrustful eye, or the customer faithfully plac­
ing his personal possessions momentarily in the street—among 
people the shopkeeper advertises as untrustworthy—to shop 
not by choice but by direction in the stalls of the monopolist? 
Is the shopkeeper taking unfair advantage of his position? 
The absence of competition can be a dangerous thing.
Facility is no argument for the system. Super-market 
kings will testify otherwise. The restrictions of our book­
store liken a self-service A&P to a sanctuary for the op­
pressed. . ¦
Let’s make the system a matter of personal choice.
Back to the freshman. As Rudyard Kipling once said:
“If you hit a pony over the nose at the outset of 
your acquaintance, he may not love you, but he will 
take a deep interest in your movements ever after­
wards.”
A campus is a culture in a nutshell. Observe it. What 
happens on your campus happens in our nation. But here it 
happens faster.
At Varsity Dance
Last Saturday night approximately 250 couples danced to the 
music of Benny Benack in the Gym at the annual Carnegie Tech C 
Club dance. This dance is-put on every year by the C Club, whose 
membership is limited to those who have earned their varsity letter
in one of the eight major sports?-----------------------------------------------------
at Tech to raise money for a
scholarship.
Each year this scholarship of $100 
is presented to the freshman who 
has shown the most athletic prom­
ise. This year the award went to 
Thomas Briner. Tom is enrolled 
in the department of architecture 
and comes from Bay Village, Ohio.
Bob Carman announced at in­
termission time that the C Club 
has established a plaque with 
eight rows on it for the names of 
the oustanding athletes in the 
eight varsity sports at Carnegie 
Tech. These awards for last year 
were also announced.
Tom Warner was presented the 
award for football, Bill Dosey for 
basketball, Jim Miller for tennis, 
Arnie Olds for track, Mai Gillies 
for cross country, Bob Coulter for 
swimming, and Ed Cipro fof golf. 
The plaque will be hung in some 
central place as soon as a suit­
able place can be found.
Benny Benack played both fast 
and slow music during the eve­
ning. The Mexican Hat dance and 
the bunny hop were also played. 
The gym was decorated with flats 
painted with sports characters, 
and the gym lighted by red lights. 
Hap McDonald was in charge of 
decorations while Joe Santacrose 
was the general dance chairman.
¦11
Genuine
StudenCuodcdi ll
Silvered-Tip
REFILLS
in Red • Green • Blue 
• Block
Notice
All those who obtained 
summer employment through 
the school, please report to 
the Bureau of Placements, 
ments, Room 240, Administra­
tion Hall, as soon as possible.
f? Exclusive
new Paper-Mate 
Silvered-Tip Refill 
means smoother, faster 
writing! Just 10 seconds to 
insert... never blots... dries 
instantly. Get Paper- 
Mate Refills wherever 
IIL pens are sold.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, October 12, 1954
Editorial—
Why Frosli Rules?
Along about this time every year the 
Tartan prints an editorial calling for a more 
effective freshman regulations program.
Every year the complaints are the same as 
are the solutions proposed, but every year 
the situation gets worse. A few excerpts from 
past Tartans will serve to illustrate our point.
In the October 30, 1951 issue we find a 
five-column headline, “205 Freshmen Fail 
Traditions Exam,” followed by a list of the 
students who either failed the test or never 
bothered to show up for it. Elsewhere, on the 
editorial page of this same issue we find the 
following comments: “Everybody cries about 
school spirit, but no one seems willing to put 
teeth into measures such as the tradition’s 
exam, which are a first approach to the prob­
lem ... At present sophomores have no 
power at all to enforce rules concerning the 
freshman regulations . . . The administration 
takes the attitude that some sort of idealistic 
student enforcement is sufficient. .. etc., etc.”
In last year’s issue of October 6 we find 
in an editorial entitled, “Why Regulate,” and 
the following comments: “It is obvious that 
all the 781 freshman are not conforming to 
the few and simple regulations that have 
been set up . . . Those who do anything what­
soever toward the enforcement of these rules 
are a very small minority . . . What in particular is sacred 
about the Senior Walk or the Senior Fence? ...”
Don’t all these comments sound familiar? Every one of 
them could equally as well be applied to this year’s fiasco of 
freshman regulations enforcement. Again, after the first few 
days of classes there were virtually no dinks to be seen on 
campus. The freshman-sophomore competition was a farce 
with only a small handful of sophomores showing up for the 
contest. The tradition’s exam was again a flop with the 
poorest turnout of frosh in years. Again we had the same 
old failures—just a different setting with new characters.
Ail of this can lead to only one conclusion—Let’s do
the dinks and the traditions exam. Don’t condemn this sug­
gestion as the easy way out of a discouraging situation with­
out first giving the matter a little thought.
There are very few students at Tech who are willing to 
give any support whatsoever to Scimitars and Cwens in en­
forcing freshman regulations. Most, in fact, make no pretense 
in even discouraging enforcement by their very attitude to­
wards the dinks and the tradition’s exam. Without student 
support Scimitar and Cwens can never hope to carry out any 
kind of an effective program.
Thte success of freshman regulations depends not only on 
upperelass support but also on support from the school ad­
ministration. If the school were to provide Scimitars and 
Cwens with some method of enforcement such as withhold­
ing permanent ID cards or restricting participation in activi­
ties the freshman regulations program could still be success­
ful. The administration, however, does not see its way clear 
to allow any such enforcement measures.
On the basis of past failures and support which can be 
expected from the students and administration in the future, 
we say—do away with all freshman regulations. It seems to 
us to be far better to set up no regulations for the freshman 
than to introduce them to Tech with anything as ill-organized 
and poorly-supported as freshman regulations are now. Such 
a change would make virtually no difference except to save 
the frosh $1.25 apiece and the sophomore honoraries a little 
time and effort. No one else would notice the change!
W.W.S.
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Telephone
SChenley 1-4557; after hours MUseum 3-2312, for advertising and subscription rates 
c*ail MUseum 2-3990. Published weekly during the school year except holidays 
and examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology. Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Editor-in-£hief .......................................................................................................Paul CarmichaelExecutive Editor .................................................................................................................Wilson Sick
Business Manager  .................... ............... ................... ....................Stan Rosenberg
Managing Editor.................................................................................................................. Forsythe
J*1” ...........................................................................................................June Sochatoff»ports Editor ..............................................................................................................Lenny Feldmap
Entered as second class matter on October 4, 1907, at the Post Office at 
Pittsburgh, Pa., under act of March 3, 1879. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in the act of February 28, 1925.
Member of the Associated College Press.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc., College
publishers representative, 420 Madison Ave., New York City. Subscriptions *1.10 per year.
Congratulations
Dr. J. C. Warner 
President, Carnegie Tech 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 
Dear Sir:
I wish to take this opportunity on the behalf 
of many Lafayette students to compliment you 
and Carnegie Tech on the fine sportsmanship dis­
played by the Carnegie football team, band and 
students.
The Tartan band not only held the interest of
the Lafavette students, but constantly surprised us 
with its excellence of marching skill and musical 
ability.
It is significant that this was the first contest 
between the two teams. I trust that a new rela­
tionship of friendliness and sportsmanship will con­
tinue in the future.
Sincerely yours, 
Arnold Schildkret 
Lafayette College 
Easton, Pa.
Editor’s Note—It is well to note that the friend­
liness and sportsmanship of the band, Carnegie 
Tech students, and football team was well received 
at Lafayette. This is just as important a part of the 
game as the final score. The actions of students 
at games away reflect on the school itself. Mr. 
Schildkret can be assured the same spirit will be 
displayed at future meetings of the two teams.
“Observer Observed99
Editor, the Tartan
I wish to take exception to your article entitled 
“The Observer.” Although I am a graduate student 
and haven’t been really familiar with organization 
membership since last spring, I fail to see where 
a social chasm has ever existed.
On the CIT campus, although we don’t all dress 
alike or all belong to the same organizations, any 
generalizations about this break between Fine Arts 
and the rest of the campus seem hard put. A Phi
O, which you point out as an engineer’s organiza­
tion, has a Fine Arts student for president.
Spring Carnival, fraternities, dorm bull sessions, 
Scotch ’n’ Soda, Student Council, and many other 
organizations stand as fine examples of the lack 
of any real intraschool barrier. Of course there 
are more “science students” in most organizations 
but let’s face it, there are just more of these than 
“fine arts students.”
Admittedly we have a considerable barrier in 
our departmental or college organizations. Who is 
asking us to mix engineers into the Home Ec Club 
anyway or into Beaux Arts for that matter? Some 
functions are meant specifically for certain groups 
of students. The Kiltie Band dance is for the Kiltie 
Band and not for the whole school. While we 
need groups to mix as they are, we also expect them 
to do some things as a group in order to maintain 
their identity.
Signed,
Rick DilL
Open Letter—
One Day’s Tuition
In writing this letter, I hope to clarify the aims 
and plans of the 1954-55 Campus Chest committee 
First, let me remind the student body that the 
Campus Chest Drive, scheduled to begin Thursday, 
October 28, is the one campaign held during the 
year on campus to solicit funds for such charitable 
organizations as the Allegheny County Community 
Chest, World University Service, National Founda­
tion for Infantile Paralysis, American Cancer So­
ciety, Allegheny County Heart House, Children’s 
Hospital of Pittsburgh, American Red Cross, and 
the Salvation Army. All these organizations de­
pend upon volunteer giving as the chief means of 
carrying out life saving programs to thousands 
and even millions of handicapped, poor and dis­
tressed people each year.•- 'Work Done
Perhaps it would be well for me to explain 
briefly some of the work done by the various chari­
ties mentioned above. Firstly, the Community Chest 
represents 92 individual charitable organizations 
serving Allegheny County. These include organi­
zations devoted to Child Welfare, organizations such 
as the Boy Scouts which are interested in the 
youth of the community, others which assist the 
handicapped and the aged, hospitals and other 
agencies which promote community health and oth­
er groups giving general community service.
Secondly, the World University Service is an 
international student-to-student aid program. Stu­
dents and professors in the torn countries in Eu­
rope and Southeast Asia will receive aid from fel­
low students and professors in 19 Countries through 
this fund. World University Service uses its funds 
to provide books and other supplies, to reduce the 
alarming tuberculosis rate, and to sponsor self-help 
programs among the students.
Next, the National Foundation for Infantile 
Paralysis and the American Cancer Society use 
their funds for research, education, and for care 
of patients stricken with their two diseases. As 
for the Heart House it gives convalescent care for 
children with heart ailments. Finally, the work of 
the Red Cross and Salvation Army should be fa- 
niiiicu to neany ail or the students.
More Emphasis Needed
I feel that in the past not enough emphasis has 
been placed on the Chest campaign here on campus. 
Nor has the fact that each of us has a duty and 
responsibility to give to the Campus Chest been 
publicized or brought to the attention of the stu­
dents in the three years I have attended Tech. As 
citizens of the community, both school and city, 
we have the responsibility to aid those less for­
tunate than ourselves. In this manner, we are 
helping to build a better community, nation and 
world, and are investing in our own future.
This year, rather than fixing our attention on 
a general goal, your committee suggests that each 
student consider an individual goal—“one day’s 
tuition,” for example. It might be beneficial to 
mention some of the tentative ideas and special 
events we have planned for the drive. Such events 
may include the Ugly Man On Campus Contest 
and auction of goods left in the lost and found 
for a long period of time, in addition to solicita- 
.tion in the various classes.
- Organizational Help
We hope to secure the help of such organizations 
as A Phi O, Mortar Board, ODK, Cwens, Delta 
Skull, Scimitar, Tau Beta Pi, Men and Women’s 
Dorm Councils, Council of Fraternity Presidents, 
Pan-Hellenic Council, Citcom and others in this 
most important drive. One realizes that such a 
large force is necessary if one takes a quick look 
at the actual amount of work to be done. Just 
class solicitations alone require the time and work 
of upwards of 50 students. In addition, there need 
to be well organized fraternity, sorority, and dor­
mitory solicitations requiring another 50 people.
Thus, we can see that an essential, integral part 
of any well organized, successful campaign is the 
interest and co-operation of Stqdent Council, the 
various organizations participating in the drive and 
the entire student body. It is therefore the hope 
of your Campus Chest Committee that each stu­
dent on the campus will ask himself the question, 
“What is my responsibility in this campaign?”— 
and will answer accordingly with his pledge and 
contribution.
Sy Kellman
Co-chairman, Campus Chest.
Editor’s Note—For students who pay $680 a 
year one day’s tuition is $3.80 For Margaret Mor~ 
rison students who pay $580 a year the average 
tuition per day is $3.22. This is figured on 180 
school days.

---------------------------------------------------

Harriers’ Win 
Streak Ended 
At Eight een
At Beaver Falls, Friday, Coach 
Bob Carman had his own personal 
win streak and the team’s broken 
by a very good Geneva team, 
who had to go all out to beat Tech 
26-29. The margin of difference 
was the four Geneva freshman, 
who had not been allowed to run 
the week before when Geneva 
met Pitt. Tech runners placed 
second, third, fifth, and tenth. The 
four Geneva freshmen placed 
sixth, seventh, eighth, and ninth. 
Homer Weaver of Geneva placed 
first with a time of 21:00 minutes, 
followed closely by Mai Gillies 
of Tech with 21:03. Bryant’s time 
Was 21:45, with Hap McDonald 
being clocked at 22:20 which was 
good for fifth place. Flynn, who 
placed tench, came in with 22:59.
This loss broke a string of vic­
tories that had reached eighteen, 
and had covered four seasons. It 
was a tough one to lose—guess 
the boys will have to go cut and 
start on another streak!
By LENNY FELDMAN
Football
tContinued from page 1] 
defense. Tech’s forward wall 
played a great game as Johns 
Hopkins advanced beyond the 
midfield stripe only once and 
never really threatened. The Blue 
Jays’ running game was .¿eld to a 
net yardage of minus seventeen, 
with the Medics fumbling three 
of its first series of downs. The 
Scots’ line held the Doctors in 
check long enough for the Tartan 
offense to get rolling into high 
gear. Though Johns Hopkins held 
the edge in the passing depart­
ment, 116 yards to 49 yards, Tech 
ground out' 309 yards through the 
hard-running of the Tech back- 
field.
Early in the second period with 
the score still tied at 0-0, coach 
Baker started inserting the second 
valuable experience and ease up 
the attack. But when the substi­
tutes entered the game, they 
jumped right to the attack and 
kept it up in the second half. Most 
impressive was the quarter-back­
ing and passing of freshman John 
Tucci, who was constantly hitting 
his men, only to see the ends drop 
them. Eddie Miller’s running 
again gave the crowd something 
to talk about, as he cut in and out 
of the Blue Jay’s tacklers. The 
rest of the backfield seemed to 
follow suit with Kennedy, De­
Vries, Brown, Quatse, and Briner 
exhibiting some faney stepping 
and linebucking.Tailback John Steers and end 
Jim Dunn were the standouts for 
[Continued on Page 6]
Seniorsby Dave Stea
Eddie Miller
Eddie Miller, backfield star of 
the Carnegie Tartans, has been a 
letterman throughout all of his 
four years of football at Tech. 
Eddie’s first contact with a pig­
skin came in the tenth grade at 
Homestead High School. He play­
ed both varsity football and var­
sity basketball during all three 
years of high school, and starred 
as quarterback and halfback in 
the former. His outstanding par­
ticipation in the latter netted him 
a position on the Pittsburgh All- 
Section six basketball team, which
In addition to football, where 
[Continued on Pdge 6]
Phil Jeske, presently a senior in 
the department of printing man­
agement, began his football career 
in the conventional manner—start­
ing in sandlot ball, he eventually 
progressed to his Ferguson, Mis­
souri high school football team. 
His participation in the high school 
varsity was capped by membership 
in the regional all-league team, 
but, instead of confining his talents 
to a single sport, he also starred 
in basketball, baseball, and track.
Phil joined the freshman bas­
ketball squad during his first year
in.. v
junior years. Last year, when he 
[Continued on Page 6]
A college course 
May lead to a profession,
Unless some cutie steps ahead 
And gets your confession ...
Classiest shoes for campus classmates... the smart, new City Club 
’55 models for men! Comfort in every easy pick-up... every style 
...all fine leathers! to $15’*
distinctly* shots tor menby Peters
Campus Separates
from
Tots and Tweeds
5424 Walnut St., Shadyside
FREE GALendars “make dates easy." Luscious 
full color GALendars for desk or wall. Yours Free »t 
you r neighborhood City Club dealer’s, or wtite Peters Shoe 
Co.. Dept.CN-10,1505 Washington Ave., St. Louis 3, Mo.
tOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY Of THt COCA-COLA COMPANY M
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF PITTSBURGH 
Center ATenue HlUnd l-TMt
"Cok*" *• o rejiitMKl trod* mark, Q Ì954, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

---------------------------------------------------

W ONE TIME N| 
\ Oft ANJOTMEft iVe > 
TRIED PRACTICALLY 
ALL OF THE CIGARETTE 
BRANDS. RESULT fS —
\Of t ANJtTM EtfJi 
AfVeJ>R . i I>JDJ>
CAMELS' HNE RfCH 
FLAVOR-AMD, BEL/EVE 
ME, THEY'RE GENUINELY 
M*LD. YOU TRY > 
k ’EM ANJD SEE ! M
Page 6—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, October 12, 1954
Football
[Continued from page 5] 
an otherwise dreary Johns Hop­
kins team, who early in the third 
period, and only 12 points behind, 
punted on second down, a gesture 
that pretty well expressed the 
futility of its single-wing offense. 
Dick* Watts’ punting also bright­
ened the day for John Bridges’ 
boys, as he boomed many boots 
far down field for a day’s average 
of 43 yards per punt.
Next week the Tartans will 
travel to Beaver Falls to meet the 
Geneva Covenanters coached by 
Cliff Aulyman, who have yet to 
be defeated this year, boasting a 
record of two wins and one tie. 
This promises to be a battle, for 
Geneva has one of the best clubs 
in its long football history, and 
will be playing on its home field 
for the supremacy of the small 
Colleges in the Tri-State area. 
Tech will be after its fourth 
straight win.
CARNEGIE TECH 
Ends—Ficery, Hrosik, Bercik, Mcguigan, 
Luchok,.Tackles*—Wengrzvn. McCarthy, Thomas. 
Guards—Karcher, Williamson, Butler, Ca- 
dul, Jones, Tagliavini, Novak, Weaver. 
Centers—Schell. Kohan.Backs—Jeske. Miller, Kennedy, Brown. 
Carricato, Tucci, Briner, Cortes, Smith, 
Myers, Quatse, Blatt, Peoples.
JOHNS HOPKINS 
Ends—Whatley, Dunn, Gibson. Close. 
Tackles—McGraw, Williams, Miller, Bak- 
ior. Park.Guards—Goldberg. Wright, Sabina, W.
Wood. Tocci.Centers—Gallagher, Keim, Graser.
Backs—Watts, Lawrence, B. Wood, Mesko, 
Steers, Marshall, Batt, Alfandre. Touchdowns-—Brown, Quatse, Kennedy, 
Hrosik.Conversion—Devries.Referee — Tut Melman. Umpire—Paul 
Douglas. Linesman—Harry Grim, Judge— 
Foster Grose.
Sportscope
[Continued from page 5] 
to boast of being champion, or feel powerful in the fact that he can 
throw his weight around and get away with it. This is definitely not 
the purpose of the IM program. The actual carrying out of the pro­
gram and the presenting ^>f it to the student body, has been on the 
basis of competition. Maybe the fault lies with the school and the 
publications for stressing competition and giving it so much im­
portance that students reset their aims, which now widely differ 
from the original aims of the IM program. And possibly the students 
are just blowing off some steam and this is their only outlet. If 
so, maybe a change in the physical education curriculum is in order. 
How about a four year program? This would take some of the starch 
out of the upper classrhen and keep the students in condition all 
the time. Maybe this is the answer. , -
But whatever the answer, some immediate action should be 
taken by the IM Board and the Manager’s Club. The actions — 
taken by the Board might be to penalize teams and players by 
not allowing the team to compete for the rest of that season 
and suspending the players from participating in that sport for 
the rest of the time that they’re in school. Drastic measures? 
Well maybe you’d like to argue the point with some of the fel­
lows in the hospital.
Only 6 Teams Remain 
Un bea ten In IM Play
Intramural football competition started with a bang in its first 
two weeks of play, though rain and inclement weather caused several 
games to be postponed. Most of the pre-season favorites came through, 
with some close and exciting battles being played in all the leagues.*!
In the Tartan league, SAE de-^ * ”
feated the Static Charges. Fedor 
led the SAE attack with some
Jeske
[Continued from page 5]
won his letter in football, was his
first season as quarterback with
the Tartans. His greatest thrill,
however, “beating Lafayette,”
came a little over a week ago,
when Tech edged out the Leopards
at Easton, 23-21.
Phil has also been active in 4i is roll an Suu currem v ice-jji esi-
dofit of his fraternity, a member 
of ODK, present Spring Carnival 
chairman, and managing editor of 
the Thistle. Both he and Eddie 
Mill "!?•. another outstanding mem-
Miller
[Continued from page 5] 
he spent his first two years at 
Tech as quai'terback and his last 
two as halfback, Eddie also earned 
a letter in varsity basketball dur­
ing his junior year, is a member 
of the C-club, and a participant in 
intramural softball. Academically 
a civil engineering senior, Eddie 
is a member of the ASCE.
Ed recalls two of the most mem­
orable incidents in his college
ber of the Tartan squad, are 
battalion commanders in Tech’s 
ROTC.
When asked about the team’s 
chances this year, Phil replied: 
“They’re good—this is the best 
team that Tech has had since the 
de-emphasis of football.” All but 
two members of the first team are 
back this year, and six out of 
eleven are seniors. These six, to­
gether with the other senors on 
the team, “will produce the best maite tneir iast year a gooa ohe." 
A lot more credit is due the line­
men than has been given in pre­
vious years, however, says Phil, 
because it is they who make it 
possible for the team to score.
football career: the first occurred 
in his sophomore year during the 
Homecoming Game with Case 
(which Tech won 10-0), when he 
intercepted a pass and ran 25 
yards for the first touchdown of 
his career; the second was our 
recent upset victory over Lafay­
ette.
The team has had a good start 
this season, says Ed, but, since 
“every other team will be laying 
for us” after our rout of the Leop­
ards, we cannot foretell the out­
come. “None of our games will be 
easy ones and we’ll face some 
tough teams, but the chances look 
good. We’re looking and hoping 
for an undefeated season, particu­
larly since if we have a really 
good season, it ,will aid consider­
ably in raising school spirit.
“Lafayette, Lehigh and Geneva 
are our toughest opponents,” 
according to Ed, “We’ve already 
defeated the first and will be 
more than ready for the Geneva 
game—we want to repay them for 
last year’s defeat. Also, since this 
is our last year with Lehigh and 
we have lost to the Engineers for 
the
them out this season.
Phil Jeske, Eddie’s teammate, 
has summed up the squad’s opin­
ion of Miller: “He’s ‘sparkling’— 
the backbone of our offense.”
sparkling passes, with Ed Puchy 
on the receiving end of the touch­
down spirals. While the SAE’s 
were rolling to victory, the KS’s 
were taking the measure of the 
Tech Gems 31-to-23, and the 
ATO’s led by Bart Bartocci bested 
a strong Phi Kap aggregation, cap­
tained by Tony Ginetti, 13 to 4. 
In the only other game played in 
the Tartan league during the first 
week, the Tech Gems downed the 
ASCE 35 to 11.
Kiltie League 
The report on the games in the 
Kiltie league was strictly “no con­
test.” The TX’s as was expected, 
continued their winning ways of 
last year by handing Citcom a 47-3 
defeat. The Delts handed the 
Eagles a 29-3 loss, while the Tau 
Delts wound up on the short end 
of 16-3 count, with the Eagles 
emerging the victors. In the other 
encounter, PiKA rolled over the 
AIEE team by the score of 27 to 8.
Skibo League 
The story ran the same pattern 
for this league, as the SN’s, led 
by Harry Saro, romped to a 28 to
2 victory over the Obelisks. While 
Robbins and company, were run­
ning through the BSR team, (DU 
29, BSR 9) the Newman Club was 
walloping, the ATO “B” team, 23 
to 7. The final game of the week 
saw the Betas squeeze past the 
Newman Club, 10 to 7.
Second Week 
This week witnessed three hard 
fought contests as the KS’s, SAE’s 
and TX’s posted wins on the 
scoreboard. In a very hard fought 
contest, the KS’s edged the ATO 
“A” team 21 to 15; a game which
_____ ___________ J - -a
helped off the field. The KS’s were 
running and blocking hard as they 
won their second straight game of 
the year. The SAE-PK battle, fea­
tured Fedor against Ginetti, with 
the SAE’s pulling this one out of
the fire by the amount of two first 
downs, the same margin by which 
TX edged PiKA; final score 19-17. 
The other contests during this 
week were for the most part “run­
aways.” SN won its game with 
BSR 29-6, with Harry Saro again 
passing for three TD’s. The Betas 
bowed to the Obelisks 14-2, and 
the Deits and Tau Delts won theiriJ| 
respective contests with the AIEE 
and Citcom, 28-6 and 17-16. Rob­
bins and the DU’s kept right on 
running, as they rolled up 31 
points to the ATO “B’s” 10.
The standings:
Tartan LeaguewKS ...................................................... 2
SAE ........................................... 2
ATO “A” ..................................... 1
Tech Gems .................................... 1
Static Chg. ..................................... 0
ASCE 
Phi Kap
Kiltie League
.and how It started
DTD .........................................
Mu ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss
PiKA .........................................
Eagles .......................................
TDP .........................................
Citcom .............................................. 0
AIEE ............................................... 0
Skibo League• w
DU ...................................................... 2SN ..................................................... 2
Newman ................... 1
Obelisks ........................................ . 1
Betas ............................................... 1
BSR ___,......................................... 0
ATO “B” ......................................... 0
SCHEDULE
Intramural Football 
FIELD NO. 3
Oct. 12—Gems-Charges 
Oct. 13—PK-KS 
Oct. 14—ASCE-ATO “B” 
Oct. 15—SAE-KS ' •
FIELD NO. 1 
Oct. 12—Eagles-AIEE 
Oct. 13—TX-TDP 
oa. l-t—DTD-Cit
Oct. 15—PKA-TDP
FIELD NO. 2
Oct. 12—»New. Cl.-Ober. 
Oct. 13—BSR-ATO “B” 
Oct. 14—BTP-DU 
Oct. 15—SN-ATO “B”
Cedric Adams says: “When I was at the University of 
Minnesota, learning to be a reporter for the Daily, I lived on 
peanut butter sandwiches. It took me nine years to 
graduate (with time out to earn tuition!) When I married 
and went to work as a cub for the Star, I lived on love 
and macaroni. I worked like a horse writing about every, 
thing on earth, before I made the grade as a columnist. 
Now I’m eating better - even better than a horse!”
START SMOKING 
CAMELS YOURSELFl
Make the 30-Day Camel Mildness 
Test. Smoke only Camels for 30 
days - see for yourself why 
Camels’ cool mildness and rich 
flavor agree with more people 
than any other cigarette!
ft. J. Reynold* Tobttc* Company, Winitoo-Silem. N. C.
HassPHH 
H.RFr UCamels — America’s most popular cigarette ... by farl
AGREE WITH MORE PEOPLE ,,
. ^
than any other cigarette!

---------------------------------------------------

I
Vic Vet says
VA WANTS T£> HELP \tXJ KEEP 
YOUR BENEFIT CLAIM STRAIGHT 
BUT IT NEEDS YOUfc HELf? TOO. 
WHEN YOU WRITE ABOUT IT| BE SURE TO GIVE YOUR*C* OC. 
CLAIMS NUMBER, jrrr^r.
Tuesday, October 12, 1954—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page I
Total ....................................... 1 ,
GRAND TOTAL ...................•1124 j
One Stop 
Service
SHIRTS
WASHED and 
PRESSED ON OUR 
NEW PRESSES
ROUGH DRY LAUNDRY
DRY CLEANING
One Hour Service 
If Desired
ALL WORK DONE ON 
OUR PREMISES
CAMPUS
Cleaners
4609 Forbes St.
e
lf your hands rejoice in the pre- 
cise balance of a fine gun or the 
sweet response of a racing sloop 
then you owe yourself an hour with 
the Chevrolet Corvette.
You’ll find it is, quite literally, like no 
other car in the world-a heart-lifting blend 
of the true sports car with all that is best 
in American engineering.
There is the velvet smoothness of a 
Powerglide automatic transmission (but 
with the classic floor selector-lever).
The trouble-free durability of a Chev­
rolet “Blue-Flame” engine (but with three 
side draft carburetors to unleash its flash­
ing 150 horsepower).
The ruggedness of an X-braced box 
girder frame (but with the astonishing im­
pact resistance of a glass-fiber-and-plastic 
body).
Luxurious seating for driver and passen­
ger in deep foam rubber (but cradled in 
the traditional security of bucket seats).
Generous luggage room, the panoramic 
sweep of a deeply curved windshield, the 
flair of tomorrow’s styling (but within the 
polo-pony compactness of a real road car).
The Corvette blends all this and more. 
For it is a driver’s car ... a low-slung 
torpedo with a center of gravity only 18 
inches above the concrete . .. with outrig­
ger rear springs that make it hold to the 
road like a stripe of paint . . . with a 16 to
Make a date to drive the
1 steering rati< that puts needle-threading 
accuracy at your finger tips.
Frankly, the Corvette is a “limited edi­
tion,” made only in small numbers. U it 
intended only for the man or woman to 
whom driving is not just transportation but 
an exhilarating adventure, a sparkling chal­
lenge to skill and judgment. If you are one 
of these, then you owe yourself an hour 
with a Chevrolet Corvette.
Call us now and let us set up a demon­
stration run . . . for in a short 60 minutes 
you can discover that motoring has a 
whole new dimension of delight.
Chevrolet Corvette
150-hp overhead-valve engine with three side draft carburetors • Four-leaf outrigger springs in rear * Powerglide automatic transmission • Center-Point steering, 16 to ! ratio • f orm- fitting individual seats • Full instrumentation, with tachometer, oil pressure gauge, and ammeter.
Total
WEST VIRGINIA
County No-
"Weirton ..................................... 1
Total ...................................... 1
NEW YORK 
County No.
'Chautauqua .............................. 1
Student Council 
Is Now Interested 
In New Members
Some of you new and old stu­
dents now registered in evening 
school may have heard a lot of 
talk from fellow classmates and 
read previous articles on this 
page pertaining to Evening Stu­
dent Council and its many activ­
ities. Some of you may also have 
wondered about this organization 
and how one becomes a member.
At the present time Council is 
anxious to take on new members 
to reinforce its ranks, and if you 
are at all interested, please con­
tact, some member of Council or 
write to your newspaper editor 
c/o Box 256, Carnegie Institute 
of Technology, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
We will be glad to give you any 
information you may wish.
In brief, Council sponsors many 
social affairs on campus which not 
only are fun to attend but also 
are fun to work for and meet the 
people behind all these activities 
sponsored for the benefit of all 
evening students. We hope to 
hear from you in the near future. 
Why not come out and help dec­
orate at the square dance on Oc­
tober 30? It’s a wonderful way 
to get acquainted.
Notice
All organizations, honorar- 
ies, and publications must sub­
mit a list of officers and staff 
members to the Dean of Men’s 
Office as soon as possible. No­
tification of changes in officers 
must also be submitted when 
necessary.
Total .....................
OHIO
County 
Columbiana ...........
\
^CAftNECOski •/)// jw/t / >/
^
Page edited by Evening School Students of the Carnegie Insti­
tute of Technology.
Editor .....................................................................................Kathy Galligan
Managing Editor .......................................................................Victor Sabol
Circulation Manager ..............................................!...............James Soltis
Reporters .....................................................Dolores Neff, Edna Thorwart
1121
Night Distribution 
1Shotvs 1124 Going 
To Carnegie Tech
Following is a summary showing 
the distribution of evening stu­
dents as far as residence is con­
cerned. You will probably be sur­
prised to learn that Mr. McKel- 
way keeps a file in his office by 
which he can locate students ac­
cording to the area in which they 
live.. So if any of you are inter­
ested in sharing a ride to school 
with someone, check in Mr. Kel- 
way’s office and perhaps he will 
be able to give you a name to 
contact to help out on getting or 
sharing a ride.
PENNSYLVANIA
CountyNo.
i Allegheny (ExcludingPitts-
¡* burgh) .............................. 619
Allegheny (Pittsburgh).........339
Armstrong .............................. 3
Beaver .................................... 25
Butler ..................................... 14
Fayette .................................... 6
........ 1
........ 4Washington ............................ 18
........ 92
Contest
The Carnegie Technical’s 
annual technical writing con­
test—a search for the best in 
student-written technical ar­
ticles—is now in progress.
The winner of the contest 
will receive $15 and an invi­
tation to join the Technical 
staff. The contest closes No­
vember 1. Any student of 
CIT, in any department, may 
submit an entry to the con­
test.
Studio Opened
By Student
A new opportunity for Carne­
gie Tech students is the Joanne 
Neff Dance Studio, which opened 
at 5134 Penn avenue on October 2. 
The studio is offering classes in 
tap, Hawaiian, ballet, baton and 
ballroom dancing.
Miss Neff, a member of the 
Dance Masters of America and 
the Dance Masters of Pittsburgh, 
has had teaching experience in 
the Eva McKean Dance School, 
Detroit, Michigan, and has done 
exhibition dancing for the Veter­
an’s Hospitals in Michigan and 
Pennsylvania, U.S.O. shows, and 
various benefit shows.
The young dance instructress 
has implemented her faculty with 
Miss Dolores Neff, Joanne’s sister, 
and also a student at Carnegie 
Tech Evening School, who will 
teach ballet; and Mr. Patrick, a 
former Arthur Murray teacher 
who .will give ballroom dancing 
instructions.
Anyone interested in dancing 
lessons may contact Miss Neff at 
either EM 1-5565 or EM 1-8063.
Fh fall inform A tioa cantact roar »nirfl 
VETERANS ADMINISTRATION oOUm
Tarquans Invite 
New Members
At a meeting of the Tarquans, 
the forty girls present were given 
test, which included side stroke, 
front crawl, backcrawl, surface 
dive, and standing front dive. After 
one month of instruction in funda­
mentals, another test will be given. 
Those who pass will become offi­
cial members of Tarquans and will 
then start work on the show to 
be presented in March. The club 
is not restricted only to girls— 
boys may also try out for Tar­
quans and are encouraged to do so. 
The club will meet every Tuesday 
night at 7 p.m. in the pool.
Patronize 
Our Advertisers
E. S. Council 
Has Scheduled
Square Dance
Coming up soon on the social 
calendar for all evening students 
and their friends is a square dance 
sponsored by Evening Student 
Council, at Thistle Hall on Satur­
day evening, October 30, 1954. 
Big plans are under way for this 
dance by Social Chairman, Jean 
Woods, and we want to give you 
early notice so that you can mark 
the dafe ahead and be prepared to 
do-se-do and alamand-left on 
that evening.
Instructions will be given be­
ginners, round dancing will be 
featured in the Black Cat lounge, 
and refreshments will be served. 
Watch this page for more infor­
mation on this event.

---------------------------------------------------

.*WzsAf
MuchNiçgî!0‘
# Uwm 4 Mna (oucio G#.
/#'$ the FILTER that Counts 
and L&M has the Best!
L&Ms have already won the quickest, 
most enthusiastic nation-wide accept­
ance a cigarette ever had. Now, L&M 
comes to you in king-size, too ... the 
same great cigarette — at the same low 
price as regular.
In either size — only L&M Filters 
give you real full-flavored smoking en-
joyment-plus the Miracle Tip — the 
effective filtration you need. You get 
much more flavor — much less nico­
tine — a light and mild smoke. Re­
member, it’s the filter that counts ... 
and L&M has the bestl 
/ Buy L&Ms king-size or regular. 
JUST WHAT THE DOCTOR ORDERED!
ÜM- AMERICA’S HIGHEST QUALITY FILTER CIGARETTE
Page g—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, October 12, 1954
Council—
[Continued from page 1] 
heard that arrangements are un­
der way to hold a fund raising all­
school dance in connection with 
the campaign. The members also 
invited the district representative 
of the World University Service 
to speak to Council on better 
ways to run the Campus Chest 
campaign.
The following resolutions, of 
great interest to the student body, 
were read into the minutes;
“Resolved: That we, the mem­
bers of Student Council, be in 
definite favor of the school con­
structing a new Student Union 
and centralized library, with the 
consideration that these structures 
are of prime importance to the 
student body and therefore should 
be the subject of school action to 
be taken in the near future.”
This resolution was passed in 
order that the administration 
would have definate, concrete 
evidence that the student body 
realizes the need for a new Stu­
dent Union and this project should 
be first on the schools building 
program.
TARTAN FOOTBALL ENTRY BLANK
Games of October 16, 1954
CFP—
Team
PITT
GENEVA
PENN STATE
DUKE
FLORIDA
GEORGIA TECH
MARYLAND
MINNESOTA
NORTHWESTERN
NOTRE DAME
OHIO STATE
OREGON
RICE
TENNESSEE
WISCONSIN
Score Team
--------- NAVY
--------- CARNEGIE TECH
--------- WEST VIRGINIA
--------- ARMY
--------- KENTUCKY
--------- AUBURN
--------- ‘NORTH CAROLINA
--------- ILLINOIS
--------- MICHIGAN
--------- MICHIGAN STATE
--------- IOWA
---------- SOUTHERN CAL.
---------- SOUTHERN METH.
---------- ALABAMA
--------- PURDÜE
Score
LlfTLf IMAN ON CAMPUSby Dick BU» 1er
NAME .......................................DEPT.CLASS
PITTSBURGH ADDRESS
Contest Rules
1. Only CIT students will be eligible to compete.
2. Each contestant will predict not only the winner, but also the final 
score of the game. Entries will be judged on the number of correct 
decisions; in case of ties, entries will be judged on the correctness of 
the scores.
3. All entries must be sent to the Tartan through intra-school mail by 
midnight Friday of the contest week to be eligible for consideration,
4. Each student may submit only one entry. If more than one entry 
is submitted by a student, he or she will be disqualified.
5. Entries will be judged by the Tartan sports Staff and the winners will 
be announced in the issue following the contest. Decision of the judges 
is final.6. Winner of each week's contest will receive a 1954 Thistle subscription, 
redeemable at the time of publication.
“My advice would be not to drop school to go into your father’s 
business—you need a college education these days to find success and 
financial security.”
[Continued from Page 1J 
somewhere between $4.50 and 
$5.00.
This money is used to finance 
CFP projects throughout the 
year. The main expenses are the 
annual CFP formal and Greek 
Sing and Swing.
Representatives of the Thistle 
were present and terms for the 
fraternity pictures in the year­
book were worked out. Each man
will pay $2.50 for his picture in composite oi tne iraternuy, me
fraternity will also get one large
composite.
L‘M NOW KING SIZEOR REGULAR!
Tea
On Sunday afternoon, Oc­
tober 17, between 3 and 5 
p.m. there will be an oppor­
tunity for students, faculty 
and friends of Tech to get to 
know the international stu­
dents on our campus at a tea 
which is being held in their 
honor in the Carnegie Union.
Several committees were also 
appointed. The main one is to 
study the possibilities for the re­
vision of the constitution _and by­laws of CFP.
Carnegie YMCA 
Will Sponsor 
International Club
American and international stu­
dents will be able to share ideas, 
concerns and fellowship through 
the activities of the newly formed 
International Club sponsored by 
the Tech YMCA. Students from 
America and abroad will work to­
gether in the joint planning of 
everything from outings to dis­
cussions of economic and political 
world problems.
The International Club in the 
past has been one of the most vital 
organizations at CIT. International 
Clubs on college campuses repre­
sent a nation-wide effort to make 
the United Nations alive at the 
grass-roots. With 110 international 
students from 40 different coun­
tries at CIT this year, students at 
Tech have a unique opportunity 
to participate in a “little United Nations.”
All interested students are in­
vited to be present Tuesday eve­
ning at 7:30 in the music room of 
the Carnegie Union. At this time 
there will be a discussion of what 
the club should be and do during 
the coming year, as well' as a 
re-organization of the club.
,
