^CARNEGIETARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 55 — NUMBER 8 WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1962
Sorority Women Plan Fall RushPillsbury Offers44Dream Job;” 
Graduating MM Srs. Apply
The 1963 Pillsbury Awards Program offers Home Eco­
nomics students graduating between January and June, 1963, 
the opportunity to apply for a “dream” junior executive posi­
tion in Pillsbury’s Home Service Center.
In addition to her salary, the top Pillsbury Award Win­
ner receives $1000 in cash and, after her year’s training, either 
a $2500 scholarship for graduate study or a permanent posi­
tion with the Pillsbury Com-*
pany.
Other awards to be given in the 
1963 program include: $250 in
cash and a two-day, expense paid 
trip to Minneapolis for the six 
award finalists; honor citations for 
all recommended Awards Program 
applicants.
To apply for the 1963 Pillsbury 
Awards Program, write the Pills­
bury Awards, Station 1351, 608 
2nd Avenue, So. Minneapolis 2, 
Minnesota. Application deadline 
for the 1963 program in Novem­
ber 14, 1962. Further information 
is available in the TARTAN of­
fice,
Dance Follows 
Football Game
The Union Committee of Stu­
dent Congress invites everyone to 
attend a post season dance in Ski- 
bo ballroom immediately follow­
ing the Westminister game this 
Saturday. On hand will be WRCT 
to broadcast the strains of the 
finest dance records. As an add­
ed attraction the group of “Woo- 
gie, Rene, and Bill” will be fea­
tured, popularly accepted when 
they performed at several fra­
ternity houses during Rush. The 
committee would appreciate your 
support and your presence this 
Saturday at what they hope will 
be a victory celebration.
Grad Dramats 
Give Reading
Five graduate students from 
the drama department at Tech 
will present a stage reading 
George Bernard Shaw's Don Juan 
in Hell, tonight, November 7, at 
8:15 p.m. in the Jefferson 
auditorium on Bower Hill Rd., 
Mt. Lebanin.
The players, William Danielson, 
Karl Harshbarger, Peter Sander, 
and Margaret Wilber, and light­
ing technician, Jack Beyer, will 
stage the first in a proposed ser­
ies of community programs spon­
sored by the Tech Alumni Fed­
eration.
The program is open with no 
admission charge to all residents 
of the South Hills area. Because 
of the limited number of seats 
available, however, it is neces­
sary to call for tickets. Persons 
interested in attending this pres­
entation should call the Alumni 
Office at Tech, MA 1-2611, ext. 
261.
R. Marshall Brown, ’56 en­
gineering, is chairman of the pro­
gram.
Argentine Representative Speak 
Regarding UN and Cuban Crisis
Dr. Mario Amadeo, former 
Argentine representative to the 
U.N. and an expert on interna­
tional law, will speak in next 
Tuesday's assembly at 11:30 in 
Fine Arts Theater. The talk will 
concern the United Nations today 
and its position in the Cuban 
t crisis.
Dr. Amadeo has been Argen­
tina’s Minister of Foreign Affairs 
and Argentina’s U.N. representa­
tive for four years. He resigned 
his post in the United Nations last 
April in protest against what he 
regarded as the illegal seizure of
his country’s government by a 
military group. He has just re- 
H turned to the U.S. from a confer­
ence on international law in Bo­
gota, Columbia.
A constant fighter for a strong 
constitutional government, Dr. 
Amadeo is often referred to as the 
stormy petrel of Argentina’s story 
politics. He has fought the Peron- 
ists and Communists with equal 
zeal. His record in the U.N. is dis­
tinguished. He served as Chair­
man of the Commission of Human
Or. Mono Amadeo
Rights, as a member of the Con­
ciliation Committee for the Congo 
and as Vice Chairman of the Com­
mittee on Outer Space. He was 
the spokesman for Argentine 
rights when Israel abducted 
Adolph Eichmann from his coun­
try. His many books and articles 
have a wide circulation in the 
Spanish speaking world.
Sorority women meet prospective rushees.
Or.M. on Amad emSadoit
Campus Chest 
Puts Funds
Sunday’s Round of Open Houses 
Begins Formal Sorority Rush
To Good Use
by Sally Sheats
December 5th through 7th will 
mark this year’s Campus Chest 
Drive. In view of its approach, 
why not consider where your dol­
lar can go.
UNICEF is the world’s largest 
international organization entire­
ly devoted to the health and wel­
fare of children and mothers. Of 
the world’s one billion children, 
750 million live in areas where 
the majority lack the barest med­
ical essentials and are fed the 
equivalent of a school lunch every 
two days. Campus Chest can aid 
UNICEF to achieve its immediate 
goals of attacking disease, suffer­
ing, and poverty. Also, the long 
range goals to improve community 
health standards, to continue 
health benefits into later life, and 
to strengthen public health serv­
ices in underdeveloped countries 
are included by Campus Chest 
donations.
World University Service car­
ries on a wide variety of programs
[ conti mted on page 3]
New Suuday Hours
The Skibo Snack Bar is now 
open on Sunday, from 3:30 p.m. to 
10:30 p.m.
The weekly schedule will be as 
follows:
Monday thru Thursday—
10:30 a.m. to 10:30 p.m.
Friday—
10:30 a.m. to 12 Midnight
Saturday—
12:00 Noon to 12:00 Midnight
Sunday—
3:30 p.m. to 10:30 p.m,
All grils interested in rushing 
must sign the Rush list in the 
Dean of Women’s office on No­
vember 7, 8, or 9.
Formal rush will begin on No­
vember 11 at 1:00 P.M. with a 
Pan Hellenic Open House in the 
Skibo Party room, rush tours 
will follow immediately.
Rush Schedule:
On November 12, pick up in­
vitations to informal parties in the 
Dean of Women’s office after 10:30 
A.M. These parties will be held 
on November 12 in Skibo from 
4:00 to 5:30 P.M. and from 7:00 
to 8:30 P.M. Return invitations 
to the Dean of Women’s office 
on the same day, by 1:00 P.M.
On November 13, pick up invi­
tations to that evening’s parties 
in the Dean of Women’s office af-
In response to the desire of 
many students to study in the 
library before morning classes, 
the library is now open at 8:15 
each weekday. However, the cir­
culating desk does not open until 
8:30. Students are asked to wait 
until that time to request ser­
vice from the library staff.
A student library committee 
has been established by Student 
Congress and has been given re­
sponsibility over matters con- 
I cerning student relations with the 
library. A suggestion box has
ter 10:30 A.M. These parties will 
be held in November 13 in Skibo 
from 4:00 to 5:33 P.M. and from 
7:00 to 8:30 P.M. Return invita­
tions to the Dean of Women’s of­
fice by 1:00 P.M.
On November 15, pick up in­
vitations to that evening’s theme 
parties in the Dean of Women5s 
office after 10:30 A.M. These par­
ties will be held on November 15 
in Skibo from 4:30 to 5:30 P.M., 
6:45 to 7:45 P.M. and from 8:00 
to 9:00 P.M. Return invitations to 
the Dean of Women’s office by 
1:00 P.M. on November 15.
On November 16, you may pick 
up invitations for thé Final Par­
ties in the Dean of Women’s of­
fice after 10:30 A.M. Turn in your 
acceptance or regrets before 12:00 
noon on November 16 in the Dean 
of Women’s Office.
I been installed in the library by 
the committee, and .students are 
requested to use it in expressing 
their opinions and desires con­
cerning improved library facili­
ties. The committee will publish 
a code of library regulations and 
will be responsible for its enforce­
ment. A series of signs will be 
posted as reminders of proper li­
brary procedure and conduct. The 
committee hopes that the result 
| of its efforts will be improved stu- 
| dent understanding of library ser­
vice and better use of the library«
Library Establishes Committee 
Students Get More Study Time

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, November 7, 1962
BULLETIN BOARDMry w.ipMr smtycvm.cu hRLg
...still a mysterious concept to science. Time is only an idea, 
an abstraction... an area of shadow, speculation—and surprise.
Russian Language Club
Students and faculty members 
¦who speak Russian or have had 
the equivalent of two years of 
college Russian are invited to join 
a Russian Language Practice Club 
which will meet every second 
Tuesday at 10:30 A.M. in Room 
223-B AH. For particulars, get in 
touch with Professor Salgaller, 
*xt. 268.
Student Congress Meeting S 'n S Needs Directors
There will be a regular meet- Scotch n’ Soda needs directors, 
ing of the Student Congress on Send name, experience or ability 
Wednesday, November 7, 1962, to Scotch n’ Soda Campus Mail, 
at 4:30 p.m. in the Wherrett Need is urgent.
Lounge. All persons interested 
in student government are 
urged to attend.
Once our master timekeeper—EARTH—IS RUNNING DOWN! Friction from 
ocean tides is almost imperceptibly, but definitely, slowing the earth's 
rotation, gradually disqualifying the turning globe as our most accurate 
time measure. Science has already devised more dependable timing devices.Opera Tickets
Tickets for the opera TURAN- 
DOT are now on sale in the Of- C - Book Changes fice of the Dean, College of Fine
A list of additions and changes Arts, at student rates. Tickets 
will be distributed early in the for the Thursday performance are 
second semester. Changes should $1.50 each; tickets for the Sat- 
be submitted to Box 282, Carne- urday performance are $1.95 and 
gie Tech. I $2.10.Liberal Club
Yes, there is a liberal club on 
campus. Students for Liberal 
Thought and Action have their 
meetings every Tuesday night at 
6:00 in Skibo’s Party Room. If 
you’re tired of just listening, here 
is your chance to make noise on 
topics that interest you. There 
¦will be speakers, movies, debates 
and discussions on liberal topics. 
Come and voice your opinions.
(Pharmaceuticals, Biologicals, Anti-Biotics, 
Agricultural, Industrial and Home Products.)
OCglRbR'N ycDmcyypmcD .w Mry AStmTM.c k-k gTyaMpma BSMar mv v. Ss$
1Scays MrSM Mry ycypDn cyysys M. 0.,yp S P-W ,SMM TmDrM oiTo w.p .cy r.ip ,.iTs pic Mry k-k w.p EP- nySpvI
$10,000 Design Contest
A $10,000 Engineering Under­
graduate Award Program is being 
sponsored by the James F. Lin­
coln Arc Welding Foundation for 
the 1962-63 school year. The de­
sign competition, in two non-com­
peting divisions—Machinery and 
Structural, is open to registered 
undergraduate full-time day stu­
dents. The top award in each di­
vision is $1500, with 46 cash 
awards being presented in all.
Awards will be made for the 
best papers explaining how the 
efficient use of welded steel in 
machines or structures has or can 
improve performance, appearance, 
or reduce cost. Individuals or a 
group of students may submit an 
entry. Closing deadline for en­
tries is June 24, 1963.
Rules booklets detailing en­
trance requirements and paper 
content can be obtained by writ­
ing: Secretary, The James F. Lin­
coln Arc Welding Foundation, P.O. 
box 3035, Cleveland 17, Ohio. Ad­
ditional information, including 
postcards rules booklets, is avail­
able in the Tartan office.
For men who like to stay one im­
portant step ahead: Hamilton 505 
Electric watches. For girls who 
like to wear that single important 
piece of jewelry all the time: 
lovely Hamiltons for ladies. Both 
make great gift suggestions. Fine 
Hamiltons start as low as $35. 
Hamilton Watch Co., Lancaster, Pa.
em.arytmvMpnY UcSTnMmaSTY 'pDScma Scs 
OrnvmaST lrytmvMpn
OYSTER TIME. TIDAL TELEPATHY?
An Atlantic Ocean oyster will con­
tinue to open up for feeding ac­
cording to ocean tides long after 
being moved to the Midwest, a 
thousand miles away.
Sea-
Lectric II
*95, /-M M/UTO/V
lpySM.p .w Mry B.pTsfv xmpvI gTyaMpma BSMar 8
Friday, November 16
Contact the BUREAU of PLACEMENTS 
for an appointment
Ml prie** 
plus Ux
LAWRENCE RADIATION LABORATORY
The Lawrence Radiation Laboratory is operated 
by the University of California for the United 
States Atomic Energy Commission. Current 
projects are in the areas of nuclear explosives
for industry and defense, nuclear propulsion, 
controlled thermonuclear reaction, space phys-* 
ics, and other advanced problems in nuclear 
physics and engineering.
Laboratory staff members from the Livermore Laboratory Site will be on 
campus to interview students in the Physical Sciences and Engineering
ByscyvsSnY N.1ytoyp H—Y HEPF
Tlease call your placement office for appointment, or send written inquiries tot
Personnel Deportment 
LAWRENCE RADIATION LABORATORY 
University of California 
P.O. Box 808 
Livermore, California
M.
An equal opportunity employerO.S. citizenship required

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, November 7, 1962 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Page "
people get that refreshing new feeling 
with Coke!
»
Roving Reporter
Bring Back 
Sorority Skits
What comments would you care 
to make about the replacement of 
sorority skits by a single Pan-Hel 
skit? . . . and the reappearance 
of Fraternity pledge cheers?
I think the replacement of so­
rority skits by a single Pan Hel 
skit is an excellent idea. The best 
talent of each group is combined 
to make a well organized pro­
gram. Pledge cheers put a spark 
into the program that added in­
terest.
Christie Myers 
Home Ec. ’65
I think that the competitive 
spirit involved in producing the 
individual skits was a focal point 
in the activities of the sororities. 
Many more girls were able to 
participate and thus the skits 
were more representative of the 
student body. Bring back the in­
dividual sorority skits!
Bob Samios 
Music ’63
The- bonfire and Fraternity 
cheers certainly added the much 
needed enthusiasm to Fall Festi­
val weekend. The Panhellenic 
skit was very entertaining and 
well done, but, undoubtedly, the 
excitement derived from sorority 
competition was lacking.
Judy Phillis 
Psychology ’64
I was very surprised at the 
type of production displayed in 
the sorority skit. I feel it was
quite entertaining and that the 
theme was appropriate and the 
topic well justified. Because of the 
excellence, however, I would have 
enjoyed seeing more.
Terry Nettles
C. E. ’66
I think that replacing the so­
rority skits with one skit of a
combined effort does not allow 
all of the talent that there is in 
the sororities to be put to use. 
I am glad to see that fraternity 
pledge cheers have been brought 
back for it creates a more uni­
fied pledge class and fraternity.
Jerry Styrsky 
’63 P.M.
All persons, living on 
campus, who are interested 
in working on the business 
staff of
THE
CARNEGIE 
TARTAN
i/i a position of responsi­
bility and who can devote 
1-2 hours per WEEK, 
please call MU. 2-4557 
and leave name and tele­
phone number and the 
times you can be reached.
Good Taste 
Brings Cash
On October 28, the Sunday of 
Fall Festival, Morewood Gardens 
held open house from 2 to 5 p.m. 
At this time one room on each 
floor of Towers A, B, C, D, and 2 
rooms on each floor of E Tower 
were entered in a competition to 
select the most tastefully decorat­
ed, best looking room in the 
Tower. E Tower, being larger than 
the other 4 towers, chose 2 rooms. 
The judging took place before the 
open house and results were post­
ed that evening. Each winning 
room received a $5 prize. The 
winning rooms and their occu­
pants are as follows: A Tower: 
2A7—Helen Fenton, Kitty Laugh­
ton, B Tower: 6B6—Lee Ann Nel­
son, Carol Richtarsic; C Tower: 
2C2—Twink Henderson, Betsy 
Bellows; D. Tower: 3D7—Susie 
Klein, Amy Slotnik; E Tower: 
405E—Lee Weller, Jan Scharp; 
417E—Anne Moser, Claire Dzatko.
Campus Chest
[continued from page 1]
to aid students all over the world. 
For example, our donations will 
go to help student refugees in the 
United States, Greece, France, and 
Germany. W.U.S. will provide 
medical care for students in many 
nations as well as contribute to 
housing and provide books and 
equipment to university centers 
the world over. W.U.S. provides 
scholarship and loan funds for 
worthy students in Greece, Africa, 
Egypt, India, Pakistan, and Japan.
These are just two of the many 
organizations which you have the 
opportunity to support through 
the Campus Chest.
FOR RENT
bmcDTyY wipcmvrys vTyy0mcD p..tY oys$
smcD Scs Tmcycv mcaTisysG bmcd in 
p..tG eSMr Scs vr.,yp M. oy vrSpys 
,mMr M,. .Mryp vMisycMvG *VF a 
t.cMrG
Call: Mrs. Sarah Pollack 
213 S. Craig MA. 1-0572
COPYRIGHT © 1961, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY. COCA-COLA ANO COKE ARE REGISTERED TRADEMARKS
e.MMTys icsyp SiMr.pmMn .w
hry l.aSWl.TS l.t0Scn on e'hh7gCfb NULg AgCg
96U3gC bhUhg l'lUWl'7U e'hh7RNj l'LOUN: 
OmMMvoipDrG OyccvnT1ScmS
SHOES SHOES SHOES
WALLYS
Or.Mon — ArmadeS
TARNG eNG
Or.Mo n.OA.mO aAOadeAeeSiO
LOAFERS LOAFERS
FLATS MASSAGIC
DRESS SHOES FLORSHEIM
U.S. KEDS
3612 FORBES AVE. (Across from Strand Theater)
Don’t pay for a 
checking account!
At Union National Bank, you can have a free personal checking account. Just 
keep a $200 balance. There’s no service charge. No maintenance charge. No 
charge for new checks. No charge for deposits. Pay your bills the easy way. 
Stop in at your nearest Union National Bank office and open your free personal 
checking account. (Union National Bank also has a special personal checking 
account that requires no minimum balance—checks cost $2.00 for a book of 
twenty.) Come in today.
The Union National Bank of Pittsburgh
Eighteen Convenient Locations You Can Bank With Us By Mail
¦*iiib«i ttdctal IkMivt VOLUML / *«n«kw Mwl #¥•*<« laWiMM
On Campus MaxShdman
{Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf" “The Many 
Loves of Dobie Gillis," etc.)
EAT, SLEEP, AND MATRICULATE
The trouble with early morning classes is that you’re too sleepy. 
At late morning classes you’re too hungry. At early afternoon 
classes you’re too logy. At late afternoon classes you’re too 
hungry again. The fact is—and we might as well face it—there 
is no good time of day to take a class.
What shall we do then? Abandon our colleges to the ivy? I 
say no! I say America did not become the hope of mankind and 
the world’s largest producer of butterfats and tallow by running 
away from a fight!
If you’re always too hungry or too sleepy for class, then let’s 
hold classes when you’re not too hungry or sleepy: namely, when 
you’re eating or sleeping.
Classes while eating are a simple matter. Just have a lecturer 
lecture while the eaters eat. But watch out for noisy food. I 
mean who can hear a lecturer lecture when everybody is crunch 
ing celery or matzo or like that? Serve quiet stuff—like anchovy 
paste on a doughnut, or steaming bowls of lamb fat.
And kindly observe silence while lighting your post-prandial 
Marlboro Cigarette. Don’t be striking kitchen matches on your
jeans. Instead carry an ember from the dormitory fireplace in 
your purse or pocket. Place the Marll)oro against the eml>er. 
Light it quietly. Smoke it quietly. Oh, I know I ask a great 
deal! I know that one’s natural instinct upon encountering 
Marlboro s fine flavor and filter is to throw back one’s head and 
bellow great, rousing cries of joy. But you must not. You must 
contain your ecstacv, lest you disturb the lecturing lecturer. 
You can, if you like, permit yourself a few small shudders of 
pleasure as you smoke, but take care not to wear garments 
which will set up a clatter when you shudder—like taffeta, for 
example, or knee cymbals.
I.et us turn now to the problem of learning while sleeping. 
First, can it be done?
\es, it can. Psychologists have proved that the brain is 
definitely able to assimilate information during sleep. Take, for 
instance, a recent experiment conducted by a leading Eastern 
university (Stanford). A small tape recorder was placed under 
the pillow of the subject, a freshman named Glebe Sigafoos. 
When Clebe was fast asleep, the recorder was turned on. Softly, 
all through the night, it related three statements in Glebe’s 
slumbering ear:
1. Herbert Spencer lived to the age of 109 and is called “Tho 
Founder of English Eclectic Philosophy.”
2. 1 he banana plant is not a tree but a large jierennial herb.
3. The Archduke Ferdinand was assassinated in 1914 at 
Sarajevo by a young nationalist named Mjilas Cvetnic, who has 
been called “The Trigger of World War I."
When Glebe awoke in the morning, the psychologists said to 
him, “Herl»ert Sj>encer lived to the age of 109. What is ha 
called?”
Glel>e promptly replied, “Perennial Herb.”
Next they asked him, “What has Mjilas Cvetnic been called?'!
Replied Glebe, “Perennial Serb.”
Finally they said, “Is the banana plant a tree?”
But Glel>e, exhausted from the long interrogation, had fallen 
back asleep, where he is to this day.
• • •
Clebe sleeps, but you, ire trust, are up and about. Why not 
improve each waking hour icith our fine product—Marlboro 
Cigarettes? You get a lot to like—filter, flavor, pack or box.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, November 7, 1962
Editorial
Should We Keep Our Alma Mater ?
This Saturday marks the close of Tech’s 
1962 football season and with it slips away 
one of the few opportunities for Tech stu­
dents as a group to display some real enthus­
iasm for Tech varsity athletics. Displaying 
enthusiasm includes more than cheering 
wildly when your team is driving for a score. 
It is a matter of attitude throughout the 
game and of „responding to the cheerleaders’ 
yells or to a Kiltie Band song. One would 
be shamefully unrealistic to assume that this 
response has been satisfactory in the past. 
Recently a group of faculty and students 
met to consider this problem. It is the pur­
pose of this editorial to reveal to the general 
campus the discussion and conclusions that 
resulted.
The group quickly agreed that a major 
problem was a distinct lack of good fight 
songs to arouse the crowd, except perhaps 
for “Fight For the Glory of Carnegie”. Logi­
cal conclusion — Attempt to have some more 
written in hopes that these will help to in­
stall more school spirit. A simple solution; 
per haps too simple.
Discussion continued and one more major 
point was raised. What should be done about 
the Alma Mater? Does no one know it be­
cause it is too difficult? Are the words ob­
scure and meaningless? The group was by 
no means unified in their feelings and two 
distinct lines of thought quickly developed.
‘One side strongly felt that the Alma 
Mater is too difficult for the average voice
ierSedn tdywe
to sing. They further declared that the 
majority of Tech students disliked the Alma 
Mater and would favor a new one. In past 
years the Alma Mater has failed to catch on 
even when at one point an attempt was 
made over a four or five year period to have 
all freshmen learn it. Furthermore, having a 
singable, acceptable Alma Mater would in­
crease school spirit.
The opposition, of course, favored retain­
ing the present Alma Mater. These people 
like the Alma Mater and maintain that it is 
a fine piece of music, easily learned if one 
only tries. They contend that changing the 
Alma Mater is merely scratching the surface 
of a much larger problem—that of chang­
ing student attitude. There is no necessity 
to use the Alma Mater as a scapegoat when 
clearly, other measures are necessary.
There in brief are the two opposing views 
about the Alma Mater. This group, however, 
is reluctant to take action until it can be 
assured of student support. Therefore, they 
request that persons who have an opinion . 
express such in a letter c/o the Tartan. 
These will then be passed on and represent­
ative letters of each viewpoint will be pub­
lished in the Letters to the Editor section.
It should be noted that no matter what 
the decision, the student body is committing 
itself to some line of action. Retention of the 
Alma Mater eliminates all future excuses 
for not singing it; asking for a new one again 
entails acceptance.
Tech Debates Polices, Censorship
Wolfenstein Urges Coexistance
Editor, The Tartan:
AN OPEN LETTER TO 
PRESIDENT KENNEDY.
Dear President Kennedy:
For many years the United 
States has maintained military 
bases in Turkey, West Germany, 
and other countries. These bases 
have the capacity to launch nu­
clear attacks against most parts 
of the Soviet Union. The Soviet 
Union has protested against 
these bases to no avail. Now,
unfortunately, the Soviet Union 
has chosen to retaliate by es­
tablishing such a military base 
in Cuba. However, deplorable 
this step may be, we must ask 
ourselves: has not Russia as
much right to a base bordering 
the U.S. as we have to our bases 
bordering the U.S.S.R?
You have chosen to respond to 
this move by unilateral illegal 
warlike action against Cuba and 
the Soviet Union. Naturally the
4lUCNgjRg
TARTAN
lU3NwjRg RNbhRh6hg ' F hglAN'7'j:
Offices: Skibo, Room 50, Forbes Avenue. Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
Office phone MU. 2-4557; Editor-in-Chief MU. 2-0407; 
Business Manager, MU. 2-9580: Advertising Manager, MA. 1- 
1504; Managing Editor, MA. 1-6610. Published weekly during 
the school year except holidays and examination periods by 
the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pgh. 13, Pa.
UcciST biovapm0Mm.c CSMy *FGk- 
bya.cs lTSvv O.vMSDy OSms SM OmMMvoipDrY OSG
Cy0pyvycMys w.p cSMm.cST Ss1ypMmvmcD on NSMm.cST Us1ypMmvmcD2 RcaG
Editor-in-chief .....................................Martin Ackermann
Executive Editor ....................................Elaine Grumer
Managing Editor ..............................................Fritz Klinke
Business Manager ........................................Miron Straf
News Editor .................................................Joyce HolyAssistant News Editor ...............................Margie Park
Features Editor .....................................B. J. Zimnewicz
Copy Editor ...................................................Anne Moser
Advertising Manager............................Charles HoFook
Sports Editor ..................................................John Blue
Layout Editor..............................................Allan Pollock
Secretarial Editor ............................Miriam Gillespie
Circulation Editor .............................Mike Greenawalt
gsmM.pmST e.Spsu LSpd U00TyoSitY l.Tmc &.cyvY LSpDmy hSpdY Aycpn Aycsypv.cY 
ScS eG&G Jmtcy,maK
7S5.iM bMSwwu xpmMK 3TmcdyG LSpm.c LiTTmDScG NScan lStyp.cY Lmdy Lal.nG ­py, 
7m00SnG UH O.TT.adY Ucc lSpMycY 3Spyc btmMrY A.TTn 7S,ypycayY Scs eyMMn 
3ircG
Ny,v bMSwwu l.Tmc &.cyvG LSmMn L..pyG xSn 7ScsSiG xpScd epSsnG jTSsnv bmSTW 
mcvdnG &Sny 7S0msivG gTTmM ­ycoymDG LmpmSt jmTTyv0myG LSpm.c LiTTmDScG 7.mv 
gTmc.wwG &Scmay 7yvMypY &St 7y.cyG LSmMn bSi«pY lriad bMymctynypG OyDDn 
Cm1SG &ism LynypvY &Sc barSp0G LSpMn bmyDyTG bSTTn brySMvG bScsn 7ScaSvMypY 
AStmTTY NScan UsStvY bScsn enpcyG
0oyTTb0SpMvu &a.MM 
Or.M.DpS0rn u 
SecrfUriai Sta 
Circulation: T<
xySMipyv bMSww
ms bMa 
bMSwwu
B.Twv.cY
cCorrke C¿
Cmad eTSadommpcY Cmivv bMymcyoSiDr
mwwu eyMvn eyA.,vYLöpn epymMycvMymcG &ySc lTmcyY bivSc BmMM
.t &.rcv.cYjy.pD2y 3STm Scs &Sn OpmyvM
UcspyS N<yMrypY&.Sc A.yxMypG &Scy bdyyrScG CiMr jyvrydMycY
nMKypG OyppnUxSpTmvY NSsSTnc j.TsoypDG &ywwpyn UxyTpSsG LSpm.c
&isn LynypvG * 7npmc LSrTypY &yccmwyp 7.,G LSMM Nyv1mvdnY LSMM
LSpMn bMiympY Rpycy jpScsoypDY 'TTma ­.cSTsv.cY 3yc 7myoyptScY
Tyc RG LmTTypG
NScan jpyycy jmpmcn 6TmvvG AyTyc eySMMnY VypcS CyStG &Scy
&ScyM Bmib, Mi3a
eyMMn LmTScvY 7yvTn Nm 
WTydG NSs j.TsoypDG NSca
2mcoypDY lTSpmMS 
lStyp.cG
­KSMd.Y
C1rmcyvv Scs Us1ypMmcmcw bMSwwu enpSc UG OnTyY jy.pDy LyppmcmScG
Russians will feel forced to re­
taliate in a like manner per­
haps in the area of Berlin.
Such a series of unilateral il­
legal actions by each side in the 
cold war would lead inevitably 
to a nuclear war. In such a war 
the overwhelming majority of 
Americans would lose their lives. 
Those who survived would be 
reduced to an animal existence 
without freedom, dignity, or 
honor.
Is there any alternative to this 
grim horror to which you are 
leading us in the name of free­
dom and national honor? I sin­
cerely believe that there is. 
Now is the time for our na­
tion to urge the dismantling of 
foreign bases—both those of the 
Russians and our own. The de­
terrent power of weapons based 
within the United States and on 
submarines is sufficient for a 
purely defensive posture. This 
nation must engage in serious 
negotiations with the Soviet Un­
ion towards the end of netural- 
izing such areas of tension as 
Cuba and Germany.
I urge an immediate return 
of this nation to a policy of rea­
son, peaceful coexistence, legal­
ity, and negotiation of disputes.
Sincerely yours,
Lincoln Wolfenstein 
Professor of Physics
Editor, The Tartan:
I would like to comment 
briefly on the letter that Pro­
fessor of the Physics Depart­
ment posted recently in refer­
ence to the Cuba situation.
He would do well to stick to 
physics and forget about the les­
sons in morals of world politics.
May I point out to Prof. Wolf- 
enstein, and and other of the 
“peacemongers” around, that 
none of us want war. On the 
other hand, this concept of 
peace at any cost has got to go.
There is one way to insure a 
permanent and secure peace for 
now and in the future; that is 
to simply give up. Tell Khrush­
chev that he can come in and 
do whatever he wants to do with 
the country. After he and his 
boys had “purged” V4 to % of 
the population of the country,
[Letters continued on page 5]
A Candle in the Darkness
By Jeffrey Axelrad
To Think or Not To Think
Last week I witnessed a disturbing, if unimportant, little scene. 
A small group was standing around a bulletin board reading 
Professor Wolfenstein’s open letter. Above this letter was a notice 
announcing a Republican rally. Suddenly a girl cried out “I abhor 
this!” and violently tore the Republican notice off the board.
This girl obviously professed to views similar to Bertrand Rus­
sell’s, yet even more obviously had not read any of his works — 
for one theme which he again and again emphasizes is the value 
of dissent. Lord Russell may feel strongly on any given subject, 
but he acknowledges and protects the “right” of other people to dis­
agree with him. The destructive individual who refused to admit 
any other viewpoint into her consciousness represents the complete 
antithesis of the philosophy of which the “Ban the Bomb” move­
ment is an expression.
Now, why is this so disturbing? Because it shows a tendency 
in minority groups to refuse to listen to any viewpoint other than 
their own. A majority may take comfort in the fact that most 
people support their view and blindly, and probably mistakenly, 
follow the herd. But a person who advocates an intelligent posi­
tion must understand what he is advocating. This is why the girl 
was so disturbing — she was advocating one idea with the methods 
of its extreme opponents. It also showed that even in the small 
groups of dissent, people can be just as blindly ignorant and smugly 
intolerant as those in the majority.
I believe that many of the values now held by society should 
not be held — for instance I feel society should impose no moral 
code on any individual — and look toward the small groups who 
claim to held my view for support. But these groups are just as 
orthodox in their heresy as any majority. A true minority group 
should ask that all ideas be heard — not exclusively their particular 
viewpoint. To allow any group made up of people like the violent, 
stupid, girl mentioned previously would be simply imposing a new, 
and equally rigid, moral code on society. Before advocating any 
viewpoint a person'should realize what he is supporting and why 
he is doing so — and people listening to him should make an effort 
to find out if he can defend his viewpoint rationally. Unfortunately, 
doing these things seems to be too much trouble for most people.
Of course, the girl may believe that no other group has a 
“right” to make its views known.
New Outlook
Skibo Scrod
By Stephen T. Miller
This column besides being one to air my opinions is also one 
in which other deeply motivated, out-spoken Tech students may 
appear. I have yet to see anyone more deeply motivated, out­
spoken or crusading than this anonymous author. So I give you.
Skibo Scrod (you can have it) 
Words are by several public spirited Tech students concerned 
over the great SCROD MENACE.
SKIBO SCROD 
(To the tune of “Goober Peas”)’
Chorus:
Scrod, scrod, scrod, Scrod, eating Skibo scrod.
Scrod, scrod, scrod, scrod, eating Skibo scrod.
Goodness how disgusting, eating Skibo scrod.
Scrod, scrod, scrod, scrod, disgusting Skibo Scrod.
When we eat on Friday, we get an awful fright,
Scrod upon the counter and no red meat in sight.
When you eat in Skibo, don’t you think it’s odd?
Every single Friday, you get a plate of scrod.
It really is discouraging, I think I’m going to puke. .S 
The guy who makes the menus must really be a kook.
For breakfast we get mackrel, for lunch it is boiled cod,
And nevermore could tell the chef, “Fry up three tons of scrod.”
Every single afternoon I eat a meal at Tech,
I get an overwhelming urge to ring somebody’s neck.
I wish the dietician were six feet beneath the sod,
And nevermore could tell the chef, “Fry up three tone of scrod.”
I wish they’d change our diet, even feed us kipper snacks,
Or feed us sauted celery stalks or French-fried Cracker Jacks.
I wish the dietician would give our plan the nod,
And nevermore insult our tastes by serving up fried scrod.
Just before the finals they fill us full of junk.
The growling in my stomach — it’s a wonder more don’t flunk.
I wish that I could find the man so I could strum his bod,
The dirty, rotten, low-down skunk who though of frying scrod.
I guess this song has lasted almost long enough.
The subject is disgusting and rhyming’s mighty rough.
I wish this term were over, and I was free, by God,
To eat in a restaurant that doesn’t feed you scrod.
Th is does not necessarily reflect the tastes of the Tartan staff 
or of yours truly.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, November 7, 1962 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Page S
* Readers Write Cont'd.
[continued from page 4]
We would have peace. The 
southern Negro before the Civil 
War had peace, but he was a 
slave, and he wasn’t satisfied! 
Are you satisfied to become a 
slave to maintain peace? If you 
are, you arn’t worthy of being 
called an American.
Phil Hoff
Censorship Policies 
Appear Prudish
Editor, The Tartan:
This letter is written in some­
thing of a protest against Tartan's 
^ censorship policies.
First of all, International Club 
did not debate, two weeks ago, 
women’s status. It debated a top­
ic specifically, “The Bed is Might­
ier than the Ballot Box”. Four 
eminent faculty members dis­
cussed the subject. That The Tar­
tan censored the title of the de­
bate from its article seems to me 
to be unnecessary. It indicates an 
unnecessarily squeamish set of 
a mind-almost prudish in its im- 
plication thav such topics can­
not be treated . with obscenity. 
Obscenity, like beauty, is in the 
eyes of the beholder.
Any censorship is potentially 
dangerous, as the Crown found 
out in Rex vs. Penguin Publica­
tions Ltd. Lady Chatterly’s Lover 
on examination was shown to be 
“clean,” suspicious merely re­
flected back on those who held 
£ them.
In particular, a student publi­
cation should be doubly careful 
to make its standards explicit. 
Arbitrary censorship should be 
recognized as undesirable. After 
all, where do you start, where 
do you stop, and above all, whose 
standards do you impose (and 
why should they be right?)
Michael Adler 
G. S. I. A., 1963
This Week In 
Pittsburgh
Continuing Events
Playhouse—Critic’s Choice
Broadway hit comedy starring 
Hank Stohl 
^ Carnegie Institute, Arnold Bank’s 
* exhibit “Twenty-five Calligra- 
phies: the Alphabet” Treasure 
Room on balcony of Sculpture 
Court.
Carnegie Institute, Vincent Van 
Gogh exhibit, 10 a.m. to 10 
p.m. weekdays, 2-5 p.m. Sun­
days
Thursday, November 8
Film Arts, A Touch of Evil (Unit­
ed States, 1955). Shown at 4:30, 
7:00 and 9:30 p.m. Porter Hall 
100. Two newlyweds, Charlton 
Heston and Janet Leigh, are the 
targets of a sinister plot in a 
Mexican bordertown. Directed 
by Orsen Wells, an Alfred 
Hitchcock work.
Movies
Guild: “Phaedra” Melina Mer-
«couri, Anthony Perkins.
Squirrel Hill: “Divorce Italian
f Style”
Shadyside: “The Best of Enemies” 
David Niven, Sordi
Warner: ‘“Wonderful World of
the Brothers Grimm,” Yvette 
Mimieux, Russ Tamblyn
Stanley: “Whatever Happened to 
Baby Jane” Bette Davis, Joan 
Crawford
Fulton: “Requiem for a Heavy­
weight” Anthony Quinn, Julie 
Harris
Fraternities: Sororities—The Other Side
Correction
The Tartan regrets that in its 
October 31 issue the article “Tech 
Congress Rules Reports” con­
tained an incorrect statement. 
Signs and announcements to be 
placed on any campus bulletin 
board must be officially approved 
by Miss MacWilliams in room 154 
A. H.
Fraternities...
What is the role of fraternities in an educational institution? 
Do they exist to provide social experience (perhaps at the expense 
of academic progress) or is their presence more valuable to their 
members and the campus community? The answers to these ques­
tions are obvious to most fraternity men. To the general campus 
population, however, the answers are perhaps not so obvious.
Fraternities have received a good deal of bad publicity, some 
of it justified. The word “fraternity” immediately conjures up in j 
the minds of some people ghosts such as “snob groups“hell week,” j 
“wild parties“paddling.” and “anti-intellectuals.” One reason for , 
these misconceptions and out-dated stereotype ideas of fraternity 
life lies in the lap of the fraternities themselves. They have not 
“opened their doors” enough to inform the public of their activi- , 
ties in the areas of scholarship improvement, leadership develop­
ment, and cultural and intellectual stimulation. It is the purpose of 
this section of the Tartan to “open the fraternities’ doors” and 
thereby demonstrate ivhat role fraternities play at Carnegie Tech..
John Bertucci 
President, Council of 
Fraternity Presidents
At their inception, fraternities were merely a group of gregarious 
individuals who desired to share and undergo similar experiences. 
Because of these goals, the first fraternities took the form of literary 
or debating clubs. The idea of a “fraternity house” had a natural 
birth when housing and food became a problem for expanding 
educational institutions.
Changing times, temperments, and social pressures caused many 
changes over the years in the fraternity way of life. Today’s frater­
nities have risen from pseudo-intellectual and radical groups to 
become integral units of campus life and. attitude. They have been 
able to meet the challenge of changing times only by setting respon­
sible goals for themselves and their members.
The fraternities at Carnegie have one main objective, that of 
developing their members into mature, responsible individuals.
Seemingly, the most obvious goal of the fraternities is that of the 
social education of its members. Certainly, social education is of major 
importance, but, contrary, to accepted thought, the fraternities do not 
stop here. They do much more than house and feed their members, 
and provide social and extra-curricular outlets. They encourage and 
promote good scholarship. They present day by day experience in 
leadership organization and the assumption of responsibilities. They 
help to develop their members and encourage their maturity.
Yet, the most important phase of fraternity life is often 
overlooked. It is the environment for individual development and 
maturation which fraternities possess. Nowhere on campus are the 
lessons of democracy, fair play, and human relations exercised as 
they are in the fraternities. Whether you are scholarship chairman, 
president, or steward, you as an individual are on your own and must 
learn to face the responsibilities of modern living.
Why fraternities? It is simple. Fraternities have recognized the 
challenge put forth by society to educate and develop a man to 
play a more significant role in life. By setting responsible and 
mature goals consistent with those of the educational institution, 
fraternities have and will remain a vital and dynamic part of a 
university education.
Wolfenstein Questions Wisdom 
Regarding Cuba In Speech
Professor Wolfenstein of the 
physics department at Tech spoke 
on the Cuban situation last Mon­
day evening at Theta Xi Frater­
nity.
In Professor Wolfenstein’s opin­
ion, three basic considerations 
cast doubt on the wisdom of 
President Kennedy’s embargo of 
Cuba:
1.) The nuclear armament of Cuba 
would represent no new or 
unique threat to American 
security. The missiles station­
ed within ihe Soviet Union are 
adequate to annihilate the 
military potential of the U.S. 
The quantitive difference in 
the number of Soviet missiles 
which could be used in the ev­
ent of war would not substan­
tially alter the final total de­
struction.
2.) Our piracy on the high seas 
has no strong moral basis. We 
have established a double 
standard, under which what­
ever the United States does is 
right, while whatever Russia
N.MrmcD rasher for your hair than grease. Let Vitalis 
with V-7 keep your hair neat all day without grease.
Naturally. V-7 is the greaseless grooming discovery. Vitalis® with 
V-7® fights embarrassing dandruff, prevents dryness, keeps your 
hair neat all day without grease. Try Vitalis today. You’ll like it!
does is dishonest and wrong. 
We refuse to allow the Rus­
sians to build up a strong of­
fensive capability in Cuba on 
the grounds that such weapon« 
are obviously not designed foe 
the mere defense of Cuba. 
However, we feel it is per­
fectly natural that the U.S. 
should establish offensive mis­
sile sites around the peri­
phery of Russia as a purely 
“defensive” measure.
3.) In pursuing the policy of 
“brinkmanship,” the U.S. (and 
the civilized world) can only 
lose. In agreeing to stop the 
armament of Cuba, Russia 
can now rightfully force the 
U.S. to reciprocate by remov­
ing our bases from Turkey and 
other foreign countries. If our 
country balked under a Rus­
sian ultimatum or threat sim­
ilar to Kennedy’s, events might 
explode into a full-scale nu­
clear war.
psc vuhR LhgOc pv cgp
CHINESE FOOD IS THE
Bamboo Garden Restaurant
featuringSpecial Luncheons and Dinners
FOR STUDENTS AND BUSINESSMEN 
35.31 Forbes Ave. Take Out Service — Catering: to Parties
p ampus interviews at Carnegie Institute of Technology will be conducted on November 12, to select qualified engineers and physicists to take part in the development of Stanford University’s new two-mile linear electron accelerator.The accelerator, being built under a $ 114,000,000 con­tract with the Atomic Energy Commission, is designed to produce an electron beam of 10-20 Bev (billion electron volts), which can be increased to 40 Bev should it later prove desirable. Planned for completion in six years, the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center will then take its place among the principal international centers of particle physics research.The Center presents an outstanding opportunity to work in highly stimulating intellectual atmosphere. It is situated on the 9,000 acre Stanford University campus on the beautiful San .Francisco Peninsula. Engineers and Physicists working toward advanced degrees in the follow­ing fields are especially needed at this time: ¦ electron 
BEAM OPTICS ¦ KLYSTRON TUBE DEVELOPMENT ¦ MICRO* 
WAVE ENGINEERING ¦ MACHINE DESIGN.To arrange for an interview on the above date, pleaso contact your University (or Engineering) Placement Office. If this is inconvenient, write Mr. O. F. Renner, Employment Manager, Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, Stanford University, Stanford, California. An equal opportunity employer.
STANFORD LINEAR 
ACCELERATOR CENTER

---------------------------------------------------

Page « — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, November 7, 1982
hotel
BgebhgC AU77
ou’ll rate with your date...
For a meal or just 
a snack-put Hotel 
Webster Hall on your 
close-to-campus entertain­
ment schedule.
hotel Weteo Uc£
4415 Rftfc Av*«v* FHtskvfgh 13, fm. 
Tiliplnni: MAylloww 1-7700
S. GREEN
UTT Watches Electronically Time*
EXPERT WATCH AND 
JEWELRY REPAIRS 
123 Oakland Ave. L7HG 1-6104
Thé search for means to extend chassis lubri­
cation also led to New Orleans-where 
experimental suspension ball joints tested in 
taxicabs in regular service wént two years 
without relubrication.
The Vienna program combines 
English-taught liberal arts and 
general studies courses, intensive 
German language instruction, reg­
ular university courses taught in 
German for those competent in 
that language, and supplementary 
lectures and seminars. Previous 
knowledge of German is not re­
quired. ,
At the University of Freiburg, 
the Institute is offering a full 
scholarship worth $2,125 and a 
partial scholarship valued at 
$1,000. The program stresses poli­
tical science, German language 
study, German philosophy and 
literature, and European history, 
with all classes taught in Ger­
man.
Scholarships offered for study 
in Paris include one covering all 
basic costs, equivalent to $2,475, 
and a partial scholarship valued 
at $500. Intended for superior stu­
dents, the program encompasses 
liberal arts and general studies 
combined with opportunities for 
independent study at the Univer­
sity of Paris and other institutes 
of higher learning in Paris.
We went to the mountain to 
make 1963 Ford-built cars 
go 30,000 to 100,000 
miles between major 
chassis lubrications
Quite a task faced Ford Motor Company , 
engineers when they set out to eliminate the 
traditional trip to the grease rack every 
1,000 miles.
Like Mohammed, they went to the mountain— 
Bartlett Mountain on the Continental Divide in 
Colorado. More molybdenite is mined there 
than in the rest of the world combined. And 
from molybdenite ore comes the amazing 
"moly” grease that helps extend the chassis 
lubrication intervals for Ford-built cars. This 
grease sticks tenaciously to metal, stands up 
under extreme pressures and resists moisture, 
pounding and squeezing. It is slicker than 
skates on ice!
Scholarships will be granted on 
the basis of academic achievement 
financial need, and recommenda­
tion by the applicant’s college or
New, improved seals were developed. Bushings, 
bearings and washers of many materials were 
investigated. Slippery synthetics, like nylon 
and teflon, were used a number of new ways.
It took time. And ingenuity. But the effort paid 
off when Ford-built cars were the first to build 
in chassis lubrication good for 30,000 miles or 
two years-whichever came first.
Another assignment completed —another 
“Ford First" and another example of how Ford 
Motor Company provides engineering leader­
ship for the American Road.
c
MOTOR COMPANY
hry UtypmaSc C.SsY ­ySpo.pcY LmarmDSc
PRODUCTS FOR THE AMERICAN ROAD • THE HOMC 
THE FARM • INDUSTRY • AND THE ACE OF «PACE
Institute Offers Scholarships 
Provides European Excitement
Scholarship applications for un­
dergraduate study in Europe dur­
ing the academic year 1963-64 will 
be accepted by the Institute of 
European Studies beginning 
Thursday, Nov. 1.
Seven scholarships are being 
offered for study at the Institute’s 
centers in Vienna, Paris, and Frei­
burg, West Germany. Included are 
three full scholarships which 
«over all basic costs such as tui­
tion, fees, field-study trips, room, 
most meals, and round-trip ocean 
transportation from the United 
States.
Each program includes formal 
classes, lectures, seminars and
field-study, and fulfills usual
course requirements. The pro­
grams in Vienna and Paris are 
©pen to college sophomores and 
juniors, w?hile the Freiburg pro­
gram is limited to juniors.
A full scholarship valued at 
$2 ,230 and partial scholarships 
valued at $500 and $1,000 are av­
ailable for the University of
Vienna.
university. Applicants must be 
aged 18 to 24 and unmarried.
Completed applications must be 
submitted no later than Feb. 15, 
1963. Forms and descriptive liter­
ature are available from the In­
stitute of European Studies, 35 E. 
Wacker Drive, Chicago 1.
Awards will be announced 
about May 1, 1963. Enrollees
bound for Paris and Vienna will 
sail for Europe late in August, fol­
lowed in mid-September by those 
bound for the Freiburg program.
The Institute, a nonprofit or­
ganization described as the largest 
institution conducting foreign 
study programs, Is currently ac­
cepting non-scholarship applica­
tions for its spring semester, 1963, 
programs at the universities of 
Vienna and Freiburg. The appli­
cation deadline i-or those programs 
is Dec. 10, with sailings scheduled 
for early February.
Thistle Wants Associate Editor; 
Now Accepting Applications
The position of Associate Edi­
tor is one of the important, chal­
lenging, and gratifying publica­
tion jobs. It can serve as an out­
let for a person with many ideas 
to create a yearbook. The Asso­
ciate Editor will also obtain prac­
tical leadership experience since 
she will be responsible for many 
areas of the 1963 Thistle.
Applicants for Associate Editor 
should have some publication ex­
perience, although this need not 
be on the Thistle. Experience as a 
leader in campus organization Is 
also important. Applicants should 
be interested in the Thistle and 
be willing to attend all meetings 
or. Friday evenings as well as de­
voting some time during the week.
Applications will be accepted 
until Friday evening, November 9. 
They are to be in letter form ad­
dressed to: The 1963 Thistle, Box 
122, Campus Mail.
1963 CHEMICAL AND METALLURGICAL
The Inland Steel Company, East Chicago, Indiana, invites you 
to investigate the many career opportunities available. Our 
representative will be on your campus on Thursday, November 
15th. Contact Mr. Charles E. Wangeman for an appointment.
INLAND STEEL COMPANY
INDIANA HARBOR WORKS
EAST CHICAGO, INDIANA

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, November 7, I Ht — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Paie f
Pall Mall Presents -
GIRL WATCHER S GUIDE
* Cyert Heads GS 
Conducts Large
G. S. I. A., one of the country’s 
outstanding graduate schools of 
industrial administration founded 
in 1950, is headed by R. M. Cy­
ert, a member of the Tech fac- 
^>ulty since 1948.
A native of Minnesota, Dean 
Cyert received his B.S. in 1943 
from the University of Minnesota, 
and his Ph.D. from Columbia 
University.
In addition to his duties as
L4, Publishes, 
Scale Research
offers a master’s ' degree to en­
gineers, math majors, and scien­
tists, designed to prepare them 
for advancement to general man­
agement positions in industry. 
The Ph. D. program emphasizes 
advanced techniques in economics 
and industrial administration for 
men interested in teaching and 
research careers. Research on 
new approaches to problems of 
management is carried out by 
G. S. I. A. faculty members.
Artists Use 7-E
Some rooms on the presently 
vacant 7th floor of Morewood 
Gardens Tower have been pro­
vided for studios for Fine Arts 
students on an experimental bas­
is. Girls will be assigned these 
rooms after applications have 
been reviewed by Dean Rice. 
There will be no charge, but girls 
are required to leave the room in 
the same condition in which they 
found it. Anyone interested in 
participating in this experiment 
is asked to file an application in 
the Office of the Dean of Women, 
AH 148.
Ticket« . UH . $3.50 - K M — 
New Mi •*!« at National Beeord 
Mart« (Oakland »né Forbes Sorit 
Downtown) Mid Horne’c. For mall 
order*, write and make ekeck* pay* 
akle to Skow«, Ine., Box Ä82, Pitta* 
borgk SO, Pa.
FRIDAY, NOV. 23
(Day After Thanksgiving)
Soldiers ana Sailors 
Memorial Hall — 8:30
dean, he has been director of a 
large scale research project spon­
sored by the Ford Foundation, 
“Behavioral Theory of the Firm”, 
which is considered to be the 
first of its kind, employing an 
electronic computer as a simula­
tion device in economics. As a 
result of his research, three books 
will be published shortly by Pren- 
tice-Hall; A Behavorial Theory of 
the Firm, with J. G. March; Mar­
ket Structures and the Theory of 
the Firm, with K. J. Cohea; and 
Quantitative Techniques in Ac­
counting, with J. Justin Davidson. 
^ Dean Cyert was recently elected 
vice president in charge of re­
search and education of the In­
stitute of Management Sciences 
and is chairman of the Institute’s 
research committee. He has also 
written many articles which have 
appeared in leading journals in 
the fields of economics, account­
ing, statistics, and management. 
He is a consultant to the Federal 
. Government, the Gulf Oil Cor- 
* poration, and the accounting firm 
of Touche, Ross, Bailey and 
Smart.
As Dean of G. S. I. A., Dr. Cy­
ert plans further innovations in 
teaching and research. G. S. I. A.
Nat. Review Writer 
Talks Here Tonite
^ Thomas Molnar, author, jour­
nalist, and educator, will speak 
to the Society for Conservative 
Studies tonight, Nov. 7 at 3:30 
in the Highlander Room in Skibo.
Mr. Molnar contributes regu­
larly to National Review, Modern 
Age, and Commonweal. His ar­
ticles have also appeared in sev­
eral other journals. His books in- 
f elude The decline of the Intel­
lectual and The Future of Educa­
tion.
Tonight, Mr. Molnar will speak 
on “The Decline of the Intellec­
tual.” All interested faculty mem­
bers and students are welcomed.
WISHES TO PURCHASE
A Used Sofa
Write Box 122, Carnegie Tech 
Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
tat good condition, 7 to • It. long. 
Bayers will pick ap.
Be Shrewd ....
jyT F-% smva.icM .c 9iSTmMn ­pn 8TyScmcD
FINE SHIRT AND LAUNDRY SERVICE
Crandall-McKenzie
3935 Forbes Ave. MA. 1-7500
Open 8 A.M. to 8 P.M.
Few sights in all the world of girl watching are as breathtak­ing as the unexpected observation of a Gym-Dandy in midair maneuver. Plato might well have had the Gym-Dandy in mind when he wrote, “When a beautiful soul harmonizes with a beautiful form, and the two are cast in one mould, that will be the fairest of sights to him who has the eye to contemplate the vision.”Although the Gym-Dandy is a joy to behold even while tightening the laces of her sneakers, she must be seen in 
rCwyal to be fully appreciated. The same thing is true of a Pall Mall. It’s a long, firm cigarette in a handsome package, but it must be tLutNc to be fully appreciated. Try Pall Mall and see.
Pall Mall’s natural mildness 
is so good to your taste!Th eUhhnio eh eNnaetlaBko . feh PhsBbakin eUhurNglr! ~~
Starting Wed., Nov. 7 
Thurs., Fri., Sat., San. 
Mon and Taes 
James Mason 
Shelley Winter« 
Peter Sellers 
in
“LOLITA”
also
William Hartnell 
Shirley Eaton
in
“CARRY ON 
SERGEANTS’*
bMSpMmcD Wed., Nev. 14
“THE CHILDREN'S 
HOUR”
and
“WATCH YOUR 
STERN”
MU. 3-4992
HIGH-FLYING
GYM-DANDY
#

---------------------------------------------------

raffi S — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday. November 7, 1962
Design Contest 
Challenges 
Architects
A national design competition 
for architects, builders, engineers, 
draftsmen and students of archi­
tecture and engineering, opening 
November 1 is being sponsored 
by the Kingsberry Homes Cor­
poration of Chamblee. Georgia. 
With total prize money amount­
ing to $1.900.000 and a first prize 
offering of $100,000. The competi­
tion will run until March 15, 
1963.
The problem will involve an 
original design for a typical fam­
ily of five persons, with maxi­
mum space not to exceed 1.600 
square feet of heated floor area 
for a one-story house, or 2,000 
square feet for a multi-level 
dwelling. No restriction will be 
imposed regarding the terrain of 
the lot, and the home may be de­
signed for any designated state 
or section of the United States.
This competition is designed to 
“stimulate architects and design­
ers to greater use of their talents 
in the area of single-family house 
design for the mass market and 
to recognize such efforts by pre­
senting awards for designs of ex­
cellence,” according to John Ode- 
gaard. Research and Develop­
ment Director at Kingsberry.
Mr. Herman H. York, A.I.A., 
nationally recognized house de­
signer, will serve as professional 
advisor, and the jury will con­
sist of the following: Mr. James 
T. Lendrum, A.I.A.. Dean of the 
School of Architecture, Univer­
sity of Florida; Mr. Quinton S. 
King. Home Builder of Atlanta, 
Georgia; Mr. Robert Sherman.
A.I.D., President Model Interiors; 
Mr. John King, Research In­
stitute of the National Association 
of Home Builders; and Mr. John 
Odegaard Director of Research 
and Development, Kingsberry 
Homes Corporation.
Application forms may be ob­
tained by writing to: Kingsberry 
Home Design Competition. 5096 
Peachtree Road, Chamblee, Geor­
gia.
Internationals, Schwartz 
Plan Discussion On Neo-Nazism
Neo Nazism will be the subject 
at the next gathering of Inter­
national Club. The meeting will 
be held on Sunday, November 11, 
in the Wherret Room, Skibo, at 
8:00 p.m.
There is a growing feeling in
many countries, here and in Eu­
rope, that Nazism is preferrable 
to Communism. The reason is 
probably that Nazism is a thing 
of the past (for did we not like 
Communism better during the 
war?). It is the thesis of this
meeting that this is not the case.
Professor Robert Schwartz of 
the History Department is a man 
who had devoted much time and 
personal effort to research in this 
! apea. During a sabbatical year 
j in Austria, some time ago, he in- 
j vestigated the sources of the up- 
surgence of Nazism, and inter­
view many of its foremost ex­
ponents. He will report on his 
experiences to the club.
His is the historical approach.
Tyranny perhaps, is a human
fault whose sources lie in man’s 
soul. This aspect will be illus­
trated in dramatic readings, given 
by Elaine Medlick and Kathy 
Lizzio of the Drama Department 
from Berthold Brecht’s play, “The 
Private Life of the Master Race." 
In this also the club’s bias is 
made clear.
As usual, refreshments will be 
served during the social hour, 
following the meeting.
Navy Officers 
Visit Nov. 12-13
An Officer Information Team 
from the U.S. Navy Recruiting 
Station will visit the campus on 
Nov. 12 and 13 to talk to stu­
dents interested in serving as 
commissioned officers in the U.S. 
Navy after graduation. The in­
formation Team will be located 
in the Lobby of AH from 10:00
a.m. to 3:00 p.m.
The major programs available 
to qualified male graduates are 
the Officer Candidate School 
(OCS), the Aviation Officer Can­
didate (ACC-Pilot), and the Avi­
ation Officer Candidate (NACO- 
Non pilot). Students may apply 
for these programs at any time 
subsequent to their junior year.
A Women’s Officer Training 
Program is currently available 
for a limited number of junior 
and senior women who may be 
interested in obtaining a commis­
sion upon graduation.
Anyone wishing to discuss the 
various Navy officer programs 
available is invited to talk with 
the Information Team.
Patterns Sees 
Manuscripts
Patterns, Carnegie Tech’s liter- 
ary-arts magazine, is now re­
viewing material for its 1963 
Spring issue. Manuscripts will be 
accepted through Campus Mail 
c7o Patterns. All art work should , 
be handed directly to either Sally j 
Barnes, Morewood Gardens 7BI, 
or Richard Shurtz, Painting and ' 
Design Department.
TOR SALE
1962 Pontiac Tempest 
Lemans Convertible
White, with solid red interior, Bucket seats, 
four speed stick. Fully equipped, low mileage.
Call after 6:00 p.m. MU. 2-5994
Most Popular at Tech
» • •has been the Plush Pile Rug
It comes in sophisticated colors, is 
foam-padded and is bound all around.
rw alb's29.88
only at Chase's
5432 Walnut St. (Next to Shadyside P.O.) 
Hours: 10-5 Eves 7:30-9 Sat. 10-5—MA. 1-1025
A Message To Candidates Now Preparing For A Doctorate In Science Or 
Engineering Who Will Receive Their Degree Within The Next Few Yean
Opportunities To Associate With Eminent Scientists At TheRECENTLY ETTABLITHED RETEARCH CENTEROfGENERAL PRECISION AEROSPACE
Your interest is enlisted in a scientific 
community entirely concerned with sci­
entific and technical investigations; 
totally divorced from adminstrative and 
developmental duties. The laboratory 
is located in suburban northern New 
fersey — very close to the cultural cen­
ter of New York City.
Studies will be related as closely as 
possible to urgent needs of govern­
ment agencies, determined through per­
sonal consultation with their repre­
sentatives. Within this context, doctoral 
candidates will find a wide latitude to 
initiate and pursue research programs 
under the technical direction of emi­
nent scientists in a broad diversity of 
disciplines.
MULTI-DISCIPLINARY CONCEPT 
OF RESEARCH AT THE CENTER
While primary emphasis will be given 
investigations relating to guidance and 
control of upper atmosphere and space
vehicles as characterized by a program 
to provide stellar-inertial guidance for 
a mobile mid-range ballistic missile, 
applied research will also be under­
taken in other broad areas:
1. Guidance, Navigation k 
Adaptive Controls
2. Solid State Physics, Electronics, 
Optics & Infrared
3. Astrophysics & Celestial 
Mechanics
4. Organic, Inorganic, Physical U 
Polymer Chemistry
5. Metallurgy & Ceramics
6. Material A Earth Sciences
7. Radiation Effects & Plasma 
Physics
8. Hydraulics & Pneumatics
OUTSTANDING 
RESEARCH ASSOCIATES
Under the impetus of the Research 
Director, Dr. R. C. Langford, a prom-
KEARFOTT DIVISION
inent scientist, founder member of the 
American Nuclear Society and tech­
nical advisor to the U. S. Government, 
a staff of recognized authorities in 
diverse disciplines is being gathered 
at Ihe Center.
Inquiries are invited from Doctoral 
Candidates interested in stimulating as­
sociation with accomplished scientists 
in their field. Write in confidence in­
cluding area of thesis concentration or 
publication to Dr. Robert C. Langford.
A Principal Scientist 
From General Precision's 
Research Center will be
ON CAMPUS N'VgLegC H—
Ask your Placement Director to 
arrange a convenient appoint* 
ment for you.
SYSTEMS DIVISION 
RESEARCH CENTER
1150 McBRIDE AVENUE. LITTLE FALLS. NEW JERSEY 
An Equal Opportunity Employer
SENIORS, FRATERNITIES 
AND SORORITIES
HAVE YOUR PORTRAITS & COMPOSITES TAKEN NOW!
ONLY 3 DAYS LEFT!
Place: Room 46, Student Union
!Vo Appointment Necessary — Campus Studio Honrs: 10:H0 to 5:30
7Ubh ­U: W N'VgLegC E

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, November 7, 1962 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Page S
Or.M. on &.rc Ayps
Al Abels of Tech turns right end against a stout W&J defense.
ed. Booting from his own 13, 
Hechler put his foot into a ball 
that eventually rolled dead on the 
W&J 20, a 67 yard kick.
Defensive Battle
Four plays later, the Prexies 
had found that the Tartan for­
ward wall was hard to dent and 
punted. The rest of the quarter 
saw both teams engage in a de­
fensive battle between the two 20 
yard lines. Tech managed to gar­
ner several first downs in the ex­
changes, but never enough to put 
on a concerted scoring drive. Pen­
alties hurt both clubs, perhaps 
Tech more than W&J.
Two plays after the start of the 
second quarter, a poor punt plac­
ed the ball in the President’s 
hands only 37 yards from a TD. A 
stout defense, led by the defen­
sive ends, contained the speedster 
threat in halfback Nick Angell, 
and again the Presidents punted.
Tech put the ball in play on 
their own 11, where Abels 
promptly picked up a first down
on a nice run off tackle. Merrill 
carried around left end, and then 
Hechler, mixing his plays well, 
faked a pass and kept to the 37, 
good for a first down. Abels took 
it to the 45, then Hechler com­
pleted a jump pass to D’Appolonia 
for another first down at his own 
47. Abels carried to the 50, Hech­
ler bootlegged it to the enemy 45, 
and on the next play W&J was 
penalized, giving Tech the ball on 
the W&J 40.
Drive Bogs Down
Here the drive bogged down. 
Hechler was snowed under trying 
to pass, and two plays later had to 
punt. Again, the defense held, and 
the ball was returned to Tech via 
a punt. Tech was unable to make 
any real drive in the remaining 
minutes of the first half, but did 
manage to make a first down on 
a Hechler to Smith pass on which 
Furman made a beautiful catch.
Tech kicked off to start the sec­
ond half, and three plays later, 
[continued on page 10]
Or.M. on &.rc AypsTech's Larry Arrendas is ridden to the ground after catching a pass in the Tech - W&J game.
Washington-Jeflerson Downs Teth,
Keeps Tartan Eleven From Scoring
by John Blue
Carnegie Tech’s third home­
coming encounter of the year last 
Saturday ended as did the others 
as the Tartans lost to Washington 
and Jefferson on the winners field, 
19-0. In doing so, Tech again 
proved conclusively that it is de­
dicated solely to intellectual pur­
suits and not to winning teams.
Ironically, the backbreaker of 
the game was a 56-yard TD run 
by the Prexies quarterback Mason 
that was almost identical to the 
outstanding run of Terry Hechler 
the preceding week against St. 
Vincent. Mason, on a fourth and 
two situation on his own 44, faked 
a halfback into the line and boot­
legged the ball around left end all 
the way into the end zone. Had 
the defense been alert and stopped 
the play before the first down was 
made, it is entirely conceivable 
that the Tartans could have gone 
the 44 yards for the tying score.
Tech Couldn’t Score
Tech was able to mount an 
offense of sorts, but couldn’t crack 
the forward wall of the Presidents 
when the chips were down. The 
Tartans reeled off 15 first downs 
in the game and 120 yards, but 
lost a scoring chance in the third 
quarter when they were stopped 
at the W&J 11.
The elated homecoming crowd 
of 3000 saw the Presidents run 
their win streak to 3 games, and 
their season record to 3-2. With 
the loss, the Tartans dropped to 
1-6, with little hope of raising it 
this Saturday against unbeaten 
Westminster.
Tech was again led by hard- 
running Al Abels, Smokey Mer­
rill, and Larry Arrendas on of­
fense. Defensively, Rich Ferguson, 
Kent Baldauf, and Dave D’Appo­
lonia led the charge that was able 
to contain the red-clgd Prexies 
with only one first down in the 
first half.
Offense Impotent
Following a pre-game parade of 
Homecoming Queen candidates 
around the W&J oval, Tech won 
the toss and elected to receive. 
Merrill returned the kick to the 
Tech 26, then carried again on the 
first pla yfrom scrimmage to the 
33- Abels roared off tackle for 
the first down at the 37. Abels 
carried again to the 39, then 
Hechler carried for the first down 
at the 47 on a quarterback option. 
On the next play, Tech was pen­
alized 15 yards for holding, plac­
ing the ball on the Tech 32. Three 
plays did not pick up the neces­
sary 25 yards, and Hechler kick-
Start with a carton and you’ll end up knowing why Winston is America’s 
number one filter cigarette...first in sales because it’s first in flavor.
The next time you buy cigarettes, buy pleasure by the carton...Winston!
E5—N BRL8NW D
MODERN FILTER :
plus: xR7hgCWe7gN­ up FRONT

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, November 7, 1962
Tartans Face 
Westminster 
Unbeaten Team
[continued from page 9]
lightning struck. Quarterback 
Mason, running a play that “just 
aint’ done” against a defense such 
as Tech was using, called a quar­
terback sneak from his own 44 
yard line. He made the call look 
brilliant when he popped through 
hte line, split the defensive sec­
ondary in half, and scored stand­
ing up under the eyes of the 
startled defense.
Hechler Special”
Tech received the ensuing kick- 
off and four plays later lost the 
ball when they did not make a 
first down on a fourth and one 
situation. W&J ran three running 
plays and gained 9 yards. They 
then pulled the “Hechler Special,” 
and Mason waltzed into the end 
zone for his second touchdown of 
the day. The kick for the point 
was no good and the score stood 
13-0.
Hechler snagged the kick-off on 
his 5 and returned to the 25. With 
Smith, Abels, and Merrill sharing 
the running load and Arrendas 
and D’Appolonia doing the catch­
ing, Tech mounted its one sustain­
ed drive of the day. Sixteen plays 
took the ball to the W&J 11 where 
Tech surrendered it on downs. 
The Tartans were aided in this 
drive by a clipping penalty called 
on the Presidents.
Smith Intercepted
W&J promptly came back with 
a drive of their own. Angell, 
Eaton, and Gentile powered the 
ball to the midfield stripe. On a 
third down play, Mason tried a 
long pass that was intercepted by 
Smith at his own 20 and was im­
mediately downed. Arrendas 
snagged a pass from Hechler at 
the 35, good for a first down.
On the next play, Hechler fired 
a pass intended for D’Appolonia 
that wound up in defender 
Mason’s hands. Mason ran the 
ball back to the Tech 12, where 
a vicious tackle jarred the ball 
loose and Merrill recovered. The 
result of the series was a Tech 
first down 8 yards behind the 
point where the drive had origin­
ated.
Another long pass by Tech was 
again intercepted by W&J, fum­
bled and recovered by Merrill on 
the Tech 47. The opportunity was 
lost when Tech was forced to punt 
again.
Palmo Recovers
Six plays later, Duane Palmo 
recovered a Mason fumble on the 
Prexies 48. Hechler tried to pass 
three times but poor protection 
either hurried his throw or cost 
him pardage, and Tech was faced 
with a fourth down and long 
yardage situation. The ball went 
over to W&J on the Tech 41.
The Presidents, protecting their 
lead, ground down to the Tech 4 
yard line, where Mason flipped a 
short pass to end Dori Cowen for 
the third TD of the game.
A futile Tech try for a score 
was repulsed in the final minute, 
and a happy group of players pre­
sented the game ball to President 
Patterson to cap the homecoming 
celebration.
Play Westminster
This Saturday, Tech steps out 
of its class when they take on the 
powerful Titans of Westminster 
College in a game at the Tech 
Bowl. Westminster, unbeaten so 
far this year, will bring a vet­
eran squad into the game, and un­
less the Tartans are really up for 
the game, it’ll be “Katie Bar the 
Door.” Game time is 1:30 p.m. 
Official Game Statistics
Hk
kF68
H8
72
xmpvM ­.,cv 
:Spsv CivrmcD 
:Spsv OSvvmcD 
OSvvyv hpmys 
OSvvyv l.t0TyMys 
OSvvyv RcMypay0Mys 
NyM :SpsSDy 
OicMv 
U1ypSDy 
xitoTyv
TäDy Or
B&& 10 
HVk 
„ 3
4 1 1
HE8
—
VkGF2
Phi Kap, ATO Battle For IM Championship; 
Rivals Face Fourth Encounter of Season
Devos ran for one TD and threw 
for two more. PKT bounced back 
the next day to earn their berth 
by beating the Delts 22-16.
The playoffs began on Saturday. 
Bob Murphy and Fred Kosofsky 
each scored once to lead the Grad 
Eagles to a 14-8 victory over SN, 
who had beaten the Marauder* 
for a playoff spot. In the other 
game played, the Phi Kaps upset 
Beta Theta Pi 23-11.
Final League Standings 
STEELERS LEAGUE
Uh' “U« 7 H
O3h P F
­h­ k
­6 “A’* F G
hp.jScv “F” G F —
ep.,cv H —
hX - 8Y
GIANTS LEAGUE
jpSs gSDTyv k -
ehO — H
3b V F
bUg F V
hp.jScv “Bf* H —
Uh' “h” - S
EAGLES LEAGUE
h­O k H
bmDtS Ni — F
LSpSisypv — V
T R ­icdapv V Vthat they both were in the same the finals, ATO beat the Phi Kaps I ovp • 3 3
league and had to playoff a three 31-18. George Ciarmella scored! 2
way tie to even earn a playoff four touchdowns on passes from | RAMS LEAGUE
birth. Dave Devos to lead the ATO’s in i psi 5 1
In the first tie-breaking game, this one. ATO followed this win! ®^;ons 5
which was perhaps a preview of! with a 24-15 victory over DTD. | sAE°na 0 5
Or.M. on Cmad eTSadoipcWerronen, BTP, set to fire a pass against PKT in a first round playoff game.
Sunday afternoon found ATO 
and Phi Kappa Theta squaring off | 
for the coveted intramural foot­
ball championship. The fact that) 
these two particular teams reach­
ed the finals is rather unusual inGet LuckyFlay "Crazy Questions”
(Based on the hilarious book "The Question Man.")
50 lUbA UBUC­b U L'NhAG gNhgC N'BG AgCgfb A'Bu
First, think of an answer. Any answer. Then come up with 
a nutty, surprising question for it, and you’ve done a 
“Crazy Question.” It's the easy new way for students to 
make loot. Study the examples below, then do your own. 
Send them, with your name, address, college and class, 
to GET LUCKY, Box 64F, Mt. Vernon 10, N. Y. Winning 
entries will be awarded $25.00. BmccmcD ycMpmyv vio$
tmMMys .c Mry mcvmsy .w S 7iadn bMpmdy ,pS00yp ,mTT DyM S 
*FkG-- o.civG Enter as often as you like. Start right now!
RULES: The Reuben H. Donnelley Corp. will judge entries on the basis of 
humor (up to Vi), clarity and freshness (up to V4) and appropriateness (up 
to Vi), and their decisions will be final. Duplicate prizes will be awarded 
in the event of ties. Entries must be the original works of the entrants and 
must be submitted in the entrant's own name. There will be 50 awards 
every month, October through April. Entries received during each month 
will be considered for that month's awards. Any entry received after April 
30, 1963, will not be eligible, and all become the property of The American 
Tobacco Company. Any college student may enter the contest, except em­
ployees of The American Tobacco Company, its advertising agencies and 
Reuben H. Donnelley, and relatives of the said employees. Winners wilt be 
notified by mail. Contest subject to all federal, state, and local regulations.
I THE ANSWER: 
I 
IAfter the ball 
is over
¿a>|u}s N kkNA and 
•uun S. Aeui uaqM :NOIiS3fìÒ 3H1
THE ANSWER:
SBetulionHif
¿ÄeMÄue ‘siq) 
Sf jdiuen asoqM Aan :NOIiS3ÌlÒ 3H1
THE ANSWER:I THE ANSWER: I 
I
TH< JACK 
OF OIAMOND*
¿ao/foy
S||oy aqi ¿0 Xjossaooe ^urn* aAisuad 
-xa jsoiu aqj s| uN'RmbVcÒ 3H1
5280 feet
¿;su;eipod aSejaAe aqi ¿0 aoij 
•oejd am si a§je| moh :N0I1S3ì1Ò 3H1
THE ANSWER:I THE ANSWER: 
I 
I
ykFNA uMejp jeoS 
e 11 bo no* pinoM ieq/\A :NOIiS3fìÒ 3H1
i)or\ft five urjtil you see 
tJje whites of tf/eiv eyes
¿peai] a|djnd e )a3 oj Ae/vs jsaq aio 
a3jes '¿es :NOIJLS3fìÒ 3H1
hry Scv,yp mvu
Line Score:
Te<k
V\&J
Get Lucky
the taste to start with... the taste to stay with
hry qiyvMm.c is: IF SOCRATES WERE ALIVE TODAY, WHAT WOULD HE ADVISE 
SMOKERS? Good, smart advice. Of course it makes sense to enjoy the fine- 
tobacco taste of Lucky Strike. This taste is the best reason to start with Luckies 
. . . the big reason Lucky smokers stay Lucky smokers. And this same taste is 
what makes Lucky Strike the favorite regular cigarette of college students. 
Try it today.
HvM £cs Vps —Mr M.MST0 0 0 0 0
- - HV P HE
C OP YP l*GProduct of jdrwu&an Jvßazeo-Conyici ny — tis our middle name

---------------------------------------------------

Welcome Students !
MEET TOM AND PAUI___HAIRCUT SPECIALISTS
Crew-cuts, Flat-tops, Princeton Ivy League
ARGIE'S BARBER SHOP
Beautiful — Modern — Reasonable 
118 Oakland Ave. Between Forbes and Fifth
Classified Ads
OC'xgbbR'NU7 h:ORNj W AUG HWH—kPG 
'c yTyaMpma Mn0y,pmMypvY pySv.cSoTy 
rates. hrytyvY hryvyvY LScivapm0MvY 
’Term OS0ypvY U00TmaSMm.cvY yMaG b0yT$
TmcD ypp.pv a.ppyaMysG
.MoMnA BUNhg­ w.p ,yydTn vM.pSDy 
vtSTT aSpG A.,yTT &SncyvY L6G VW
Who, me?
I’ve had three
interviews
already!
eiM n.ip w.ipMr mcMyp1my, tmDrM 
oy Mry t.vM mt0.pMScMG gv0yamSTTn mw 
mMfv ,mMr Mry tSc wp.t &O7G
hrSMfv pmDrMY &yM Op.0iTvm.c TSo.pSM.pnG
lSTMyar .0ypSMyv &O7 w.p NUbUG
jm1yv Mry 0TSay S aSt0iv 
.Mt.v0rypyG Vk-- 0y.0Ty MrypyG
gTy1yc ricspys .w Mryt Spy vamycMmvMv 
.cs ycDmcyypvG hry pyvM .py 
MyarcmamScvY vyapyMSpmyvY AopSpm.cv* W 
yTw dmcsv .w 0y.0Ty M. oSad i0 Mryvy 
vamycMmvMv Scs ycDmcyypvG
mO7fv j.o? b0Say yx0T.pSMm.cG 
­yvmDcmcD Mry v0SayapSwM .cs 
mcvMpitycMSMm.c MrSMfTT yx0T.py Mry 
t..c Scs 0TScyMvG hryn ,ScM M. wMcs 
.iM ,rSM Mry t..c mv tSsy .w .cs
mw Mrypyfv Tmwy .c .Mryp 0TScyMvG Ucs 
Mryn ,mTTG hryn'py S sysmaSMys oicarG 
Ucs Mryn Ady Mrymp ,.pdG UwMyp .mTY ,r.I 
a.iTs oy t.py wSvamcSMmcD Scs t.py 
arSTTycDmcD MrSc Mry ,.pd Mryn s.?
hSdy S rSTw r.ip .p v. M. MSTd M. 
Mry tSc wp.t &O7G LSdy Sc 
S00.mcMtycM c.,G RM a.iTs oy Mry 
t.vM mt0.pMScM V- tmciMyv mc n.ip Tmwy
“Myvy.par .cs sy1yT.0tycM w.p 
UtypmaS'v rwM,Y 0TScyMSpn Scs 
mcwSp0T.cyM.pn yx0T.pSMm.c 0p.wTpSt*G*
JET PROPULSION 
LABORATORY
CAUFORNIA INSTITUTE Of TECHNOlOGY 
4800 Oak Grove Drive, Posodeno, Colifomi«
«Uc Sq1ST .00.pMicmMn yt0T.n«*«
'c lSt06b mcMyp1my,v2 N.1ytoyp HF — l.cMSaM 6cm1ypvmMn OTSaytycM 'wwmay w.p U00.mcMtycM
Cross Country 
Takes Season 
Undefeated
Chatham’s lucky number is 
three, at least that’s what the girlsron the Tech Field Hockey team 
think. Chatham defeated them for 
the second straight time by a 
score of 3-0 on the Chatham field 
last Thursday.
Volleyball Club, sponsored by 
the Women’s Athletic Association, 
is still in need of several more 
people to make this volleyball 
season really worthwhile. The 
club will be meeting every Tues- 
^ day and Thursday at 4:30. Anyone 
j interested in joining is encouraged 
to attend the next meeting.
Wednesday, November 7, 1962 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Page 11
After more than three years, 
Carnegie Tech finally has a team 
that wound up its season unde­
feated and untied. The Cross­
country team, captained by Mike 
Campbell, convincingly posted its 
eighth consecutive win this year 
last Saturday as they trounced 
^•Westminster, 19-42.I I Campbell, as usual, finished first
on the fast Schenley Park course 
in a time of 23:13, only two sec­
onds slower than his own personal 
record of 23:11. The six man fin­
ishing line of Tech was broken, 
however, by Titan Sam Williams 
I who finished second to Campbell 
with a time of 23:31. Williams, a 
L sophomore, was previously un- 
r beaten this race, and was expected 
to give Campbell even more of a 
race than he did.
Following Campbell and Wil­
liams were a solid mass of Tech 
runners. Andy Neidra, Tom Bed- 
narz, Chris Macosco, Paul Fackler, 
and Herb Dalo finished third 
through seventh in that order.
The meet was a grudge match 
1} of sorts, as Westminster was the 
team that spoiled Tech’s bid for a 
perfect cross-country record last 
season.
In a meet the previous Tuesday, 
the team ran its streak to 7-0 as 
they completely outclassed a weak 
Waynesburg team. Eight Tech 
runners crossed the finish line be­
fore the first Waynesburg man 
was able to crack the scoring col- 
U,. umn. Finishing with identical 
P times of 26:16 were Tartans Mike 
Campbell, Andy Neidra, Tom Bed- 
narz, Tony Hausner, Chris Ma­
cosco, Herb D’Alo, Ed Barvick, 
and Paul Fackler.
With the perfect season under
their bels this year, cross-country 
attention will be shifted to the 
outlook for next season. It should 
be . The only graduating senior 
will be Mike Campbell, with the 
|P rest of the squad composed of un­
derclassmen. The loss of Campbell 
will be sorely felt, but there seems 
to be enough strength in the rest 
of the squad to partially offset the 
loss.
Members of the squad this year 
were Mike Campbell, Andy 
Neidra, Tom Bednarz, Tony Haus­
ner, Chris Macosco, Paul Fackler, 
Ed Barvick, Herb D’Alo, Joe Califf 
and Frank Borkat.
Chatham Whips
WAA Hockey
Or.M. on Up.c l.TT.cvMike Campbell, first as usual, comes across the finish 
line in the Tech - Westminster cross country meet.
NMeCyrb OdeSyw ped.n Dad OabbeTe NwoSelwn
John M. Roberts & Son
Downtown Mt. Lebanon
East Hills Shopping Center

---------------------------------------------------

F*ffeCARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, November 7, 1MÎ
America's hottest new 
sports convertible!
A
Get with the winners... far ahead in smoking satisfaction !
k-
m GRAND PRIX k-Sweepstakes for colleges onlyYour chances of winning are 50 times better than if open to the general public
Winners* Tempests will include: 3-speed floor shift, bucket seats, 
deluxe trim and special decor, radio and heater, deluxe wheel discs, 
windshield washers and white sidewall tires; with delivery, sales tax 
and registration all pre-paid! And, choice of body, trim and top 
colors as well as choice of differential gear ratios!
Rt0.pMScMu As your entries are received they become eligible for all 
subsequent drawings. So enter often and enter early—before the 
drawing for the first five Tempests (right after Thanksgiving). En­
tries received by Thanksgiving weekend will be eligible in drawings 
for all 50 Tempests!
Remember: The more entries you submit, the more chances you 
have to win!
EXCLUSIVE FOR THE GIRLS!
If you win, you may choose instead of the Tempest a thrilling expense- paid 2-week Holiday in Europe —/or Two! Plus $500 in cash!
You can win! 50 flashing new ’63 Pontiac Tempest Le Mans con­
vertibles are up for grabs! They’re easy to win and it’s lots of fun! 
The big sweepstakes is starting now . . . keeps going and growing 
through the school year. There’ll be drawings for kYH-Y then Hk and 
finally F- new Tempest convertibles — four exciting laps—k- cars in 
all! Enter often ... no limit on the number of entries per person!
Enter now! Here’s all you do:
1. Pick up a free official L&M S—AY, 7—L1 50 entry blank. Look for them 
where cigarettes are sold—on and alpout campus. Fill it in.
2. Detach your serialized L&M S—AY, 7—L1 96 2LTNYhN 7eA8N from your 
entry blank. Save it! Tear off the bottom panels from 5 packs of L&M 
3LYPW L&M Box, iRNh8N—lLNe, 3LYP or iRNh8N—lLNe, sNP5eA—b Men­
thol smokers can enter with uAhLhb 5 panels, or acceptable substitutes (see 
entry blank), must accompany each entry. Each entry must be mailed 
separately.
3. Mail us the panels and your serialized entry blank ... it matches your 
license plate. Your serial number may be one of the 50 that wins a '63 
Tempest convertible!
byy Mry O.cMmSa hyt0yvM SM n.ip cySpon O.cMmSa ­ySTyp R
