GENERAL ASSEMBLY 
11:30 TODAY 
CARNEGIE MUSIC HALL
“1BASKET BALL 
TONIGHT—GENEVA 
ERIDAY NIGHT—PITT
VOL. XIX No. 19CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIATUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1925
TARTANS LOSE 
TO GROVE CITY 
IN CLOSE GAME
Stellar Crimson Aggregation 
Forced to Extend Itself 
to Limit
GAME ENDS WITH 
SCORE OF 34-31
Amans, Donohoe and Lynch 
Are Outstanding Stars of 
Tartan Quintet
In the final minutes of play, last 
Friday evening, Grove City’s aspir­
ants for the Tri-State basket hall 
championship overcame Carnegies 
one-point lead for a 34 to 31 victory. 
The game was • played in the Sldbo 
gym and market the opening of the 
Plaid’s home season.
Both teams fought furiously and 
were constantly battling for the 
lead, which was never over a few 
points away. The contest was with­
out doubt the most nerve wrecking 
since the initial Pitt game of last 
year, when Carnegie was defeated 
by a small margin in an extra 
period, after playing, a tie game. 
The lineup presented by the Grovers 
was the same as that which defeated 
the Panthers a few weeks ago.
From the first whistle the Plaid 
started falling behind slowly, pick­
ing up at times to take the lead, 
only to give it away again. The vis­
itors' defense was almost flawless 
and it was only at times, oh a fast 
passing feat that the Tartans were 
able to penetrate it. Bill Donohoe 
opened the game with two succes­
sive field goals, but a pair of fouls, 
and a two-pointer by Flemming 
knotted the count for the first time. 
From then ou until the end of the 
first period, the lead was\ tossed 
back and forth finally ending at 
15 to 10, favoring Grove City. Dur­
ing the second quarter both teams 
scored nearly equally and the half 
•closed with the Grove City team on 
GE .** better side of a 19 to 15 count,
The third quarter saw the Skibos 
forging ahead. After a short battle 
at a tie, the Tartans pushed forward, 
leading by 25 to 23. At this point 
Rose, of the visitors, starred in two 
brilliant plays, chasing down the 
floor twice and each time success­
fully scoring a field goal. Jn the 
final period Carnegie netted three 
baskets from the floor, one by Dono- 
hoe and two by Lynch, and had vi- 
(Continued on Page Three)
INDUSTRIES SMOKER 
PLANS UNDER WAY
Committee to Meet Thursday 
to Discuss Preliminary 
Arrangements
OPPORTUNITY FOR STUDENTS 
TO EARN A SPLENDID SALARY
Would it be worth while to earn 
from five to ten dollars a week without 
a great deal of effort? A wide-awake 
man or woman can easily earn this 
much by securing ads for the Tartan. 
One man recently made $100.00 in 
five days, $20.00 per day. The adver­
tising staff of the paper is sorely in 
need of some good hard workers that 
can produce results. Besides the 
mercenary side there is a chance for 
a man to secure his Activity Insignia, 
by working on the staff of the Tartan.
ANNUAL REPORT 
IS SUBMITTED 
BY PRESIDENT,!
Summary Discloses Numerous ’ 
Changes at Carnegie 
During the Year
CAMPUS WEEK CANCES-
SIONERS MUST PETITION *
CARNEGIE PLEASED 
BY HINES BROTHERS
TRANSFER FUNDS
TO SCHOOL BOARD
Women’s Junior Prom Or­
chestra Scores Big Success 
at Art’s Dances
PRELIM TICKET $5.00
The Annual Promenade of the Jun­
ior girls is now but two and a half 
weeks away. Just the right amount 
of time intervenes between the Men’s 
Prom, the Art’s Ball, and this crown­
ing climax of the February social sea­
son, to allow everyone plenty of op­
portunity to recuperate. Everything 
points to the peppiest party the wo­
men have ever had.
Almost all Carnegie attended the 
Art’s or Post-Art’s Ball, and heard 
the wonderful Hines Brothers’ Or­
chestra. Jan Garber certainly has 
turned out a wonderful aggregation 
of musicians, who can play dance 
music in a masterful way. They are 
the best advertisement for the Prom 
that could ever be. Carnegie has 
heard them, and Carnegie is coming 
to the Women's Junior Prom. The 
way they syncopate on “Traveling 
Blues” is enough to make anyone 
want to hear them again. Sup'erb is 
the only adjective that comes near 
describing their music.
It has only been a short time since 
the Victor people recognized their 
:ability, and signed them up as exclur 
sive Victor recorders. Their first re­
cord has already been released, and 
all who have not yet listened to these 
melody artists, now have their chance 
to make sure that the orchestra is 
the sensation of the dance season. The 
Hines Brothers are essentially pro­
ducers of excellent dance music, but 
they have some good entertaining 
singing that takes well with the dan­
cers, and yet does not interfere with 
the rhythm. Such a combination is 
almost unbeatable.
The favors were chosen over a 
month ago, and the secret lias not 
leaked out as yet. Carnegie must be 
producing a new type of woman, or 
else the committee forget what they 
chose, for how else can the miracle* 
bo explained. The only definite thing 
that can be ascertained, is that the 
men and women will both receive 
something the same, with the articles, 
retaining certain established mascu­
line and feminine qualities.
(Continued on Pafe Four.)
March 20, is the date set for the 
annual smoker of the. Industries „col­
lege to be held in the union. The 
original date, February sixth, set by 
the social committee of the Student 
Council was found to be unsatisfac­
tory because of the basketball games 
on that night.
There will be a meeting of the 
smoker committee next Thursday 
morning at 11:30 in the clubroom at 
5-A Industries. *At this time sub­
committees to take care of the vari­
ous features of the smoker -will be 
appointed and general smoker plans 
discussed.
Among the new ideas to prevail at 
the smoker this year is that of hav­
ing competition between the differ­
ent departments of the college instead 
of class competition in presenting 
stunts. It is hoped that arrangements 
can be made to have a cup offered 
to the department presenting the best 
offering at the stag affair of the In­
dustries college.
The^ committee at work on the 
Smoker this year consists of: Fred 
T. Phelps, Chairman; Kornman, 
Hoeniger,. Smith, Thomas, Sandberg, 
Hansen, Wilcox, Hall and Gooby.
IMPORTANT NOTICE TO 
CROSS-WORD PUZZLERS
In accordance with the announce­
ment published in last week’s Tartan, 
the first two persons to appear at 
the Tartan office, room 12 Industries, 
with a correct solution of the cross­
word puzzle printed herein will re­
ceive one Davis theater ticket each. 
A. Wingold of the Tartan staff is the 
judge- of puzzles and awarder of tick­
ets. He will be in the office from 
11:30 to 1:20 today, and tomorrow.
The rules of the contest prohibit 
members of the Tartan staff from 
competing. Each solver must present 
his solution in person. In case of a 
tie for the second ticket, the judge 
will toss a coin, if it stands on edge, 
he will use the ticket himself.
The Tartan cross-word puzzles have 
proved very popular on the campus. 
The theater ticket prizes may prov< 
such an inducement to. the fans that 
the crush around the office on Tues­
days, will seriously interfere with 
business. If the solvers are from 
Margaret Morrison and the better 
half of Arts School there will be no 
objection.
Carnegie Corporation Turns 
Over Capital Fund to 
C. I. T. Trustees
- BP • ~
Those desiring license for v; 
concessions during Campus v j 
Week should submit petitions ! 
for the same before February 20. v j 
No sales may be conducted up- v j 
on the campus without proper v! 
license. *
Such permission will be grant- * 
ed only upon .acceptance of (he v j 
petition. This should describe * j 
the kind of concession together 
with its aim and scope, stating 
previous concessions the peti- •!*: 
tioner may have hold and for v! 
what reasons he believes a li- -I- j 
cence should be granted in the ! 
present instance. ; *!* j
All petitions should be sent to v I
H. P. Rassbach. chairman Cam- ! 
pus Week Committee,.* care of * I 
C. I. T. Post Office. v j
PHI KAPPA TO 
INSTALL LOCAL 
CHAPTER TODAY
:
Installation Ceremony to be 
Conducted by Mu Chap­
ter of Pitt 
BANQUET-FORMAL 
DANCE SCHEDULED
Kappa Epsilon's Rapid Rise 
Culminates in Granting 
of Petition
SHILLING OFFERS PRIZE
FOR BEST SHORT STORY
The third issue of the Shilling will 
make its appearance on the campus 
just before the .Easter vacation. This 
issue will introduce a novel feature 
which should prove an incentive to 
every ambitious student who has 
oven a suggestion of literary inclina­
tion. The Shilling offers a prize of 
twenty dollars to the author of the 
best short story!!! The time limit 
is March 10, and every one at Car­
negie is eligible. This chance is an 
opportunity to win a very popular 
prize, and quite a lot of personal 
glory. So send in your story before 
March 10. Who knows, your's may 
be the lucky one?
SAMI McCLURE 
SPEAKS TODAY 
GEN. ASSEMBLY
Prominent New York Author 
and Publisher Will Ad­
dress Students
WILL-TALK ON WORLD 
CONDITIONS OF TODAY
The twenty-first annual report of 
the president of the Carnegie Insti­
tute of Technology has recently been 
published. This report is a summary, 
by President Baker, of the progress 
made by the school, additions to the 
faculty, changes 1 in policy, sugges­
tions for improvement, etc., for the 
year ending June 30,. 1924. An at­
tempt has been made to give here j 
a brief resume of the interesting and ; 
important features-set forth by Pres-; 
ident Baker.
The most noteworthy event in our 
history of the past year has been the 
transfer, by the Carnegie Corpora­
tion, of the funds from which we have 
drawn our annual appropriation, to 
the Trustees of the Carnegie' Insti­
tute of Technology. This act marks 
an important step in our development 
because it gives to the institution 
greater autonomy. Its Trustees will 
now have charge of administering the 
capital as well as the income from 
the endowment.
Student government within the ins­
titution has undergone some changes 
during the past year in that the two 
boards which formerly directed stu­
dent affairs have been consolidated 
into one Student Council. This 
change was a worthwhile achieve­
ment and the students. are to be con­
gratulated. The new council has a 
new constitution and the advantages 
of the changed system are that a 
great percentage of young men and 
women continue in service more than 
one year.
President Baker, giving his views 
on student help, asserts, "The stu­
dent who is ambitious should bo en­
couraged and helped. It is the young 
(Continued on Page Four.)
CAMPAIGN TO SELL 
SOPH HOP TICKETS
Only Limited Number of 
Tickets Will be Sold, 
Says Chairman
KILTIE BAND TO PLAY 
AT SCHENLEY THEATER
The Carnegie Kiltie Band will make 
its debut upon the concert stage with 
a three-day run at the Schenley thea­
ter, February 26, 27 and 28. Its grow­
ing popularity is clearly evinced by 
this demand upon its services, to 
serve as the specialty number on a 
program which is now drawing its au­
diences from all over the city.
Two performances will be given 
daily and the program will contain 
several numbers by the band as, a 
whole and features by a jazz orches­
tra organized from the unusually gift­
ed members of the organization. In 
addition several songs by Obie New­
man and a chalk-talk by Bernard Mas- 
Ion are scheduled.
The plans for the Easter trip have 
now crystallized into a tour which 
will include Johnstown, Philadelphia, 
Newark and New York. Whether any 
other stops will be included in the 
trip depends upon negotiations now 
under way.
CHESS CLUB MEETS NEXT
THURSDAY FOR PRACTICE
A second meeting of the Carnegie 
Chess Club has been called for Thurs­
day night at 7:30 in the Publications' 
Office, Room 12, Industries.
Although the showing last week 
was fair for. an initial meeting more 
men are urged to come out. It is 
desired to assemble a group of suffi­
cient size to choose a team of such 
caliber that it may worthily represent 
Carnegie in intercollegiate tourna­
ments.
At present some excellent material 
is available but hardly sufficient to 
permit any extensive program of ex­
tramural matches. Mr. Tucker of the 
drawing department, well known in 
local chess circles, has consented to 
serve as coach, and with a fair turn­
out Carnegie may again put out a 
chess team this year.
TED WEEMS ASSURED
It seems that the Junior Prom 
might have to surrender its tradi-j 
tional title as "Carnegie’s greatest 
social event” to the ¡Soph i-Iop. This 
is the last big hop that the Sophs will 
have, as faculty actiojn has been tak­
en to make it a less imposing social 
function. So the Sophs aro deter­
mined to make the >1925- Hop a for­
midable rival of the prom, and since 
they have already engaged the Wil­
liam Penn ballroom ami Ted Weems’ 
Orchestra, they may succeed. Tick­
ets were put on sale yesterday, and 
will continue to bo sold all weok. All 
who wish to go aro urged to buy 
their tickets at the earliest possible 
convenience, as the number is 
limited.
Whether or not the hop will outdo 
the prom, the engagement of such a 
popular group of syi^oopatora mark« 
it as a good party. Inasmuch as the I 
orchestra is the greatest factor in | 
determining the success of a social 
event, the ’Sophs aimed to engage the 
best* one attainable. Tho good im­
pression which Ted Weems loft with 
those who attended tho Junior Prom 
seems to have been universal. Indeed, 
his reputation is becoming almost na­
tion-wide, for already this year his 
orchestra has beon cngagod for eigh­
teen proms, as well as numerous oth­
er social events.
Those who. oither because of finan­
cial embarrassment, or for otlior suf­
ficient reasons, wore unable to attend 
tho prom should take advantage ol! 
this opportunity to hoar these master­
ful syncopators, and of course those 
who attended tho prom and danced 
to the enchanting rhythm of their 
music, won’t miss this clianco to hear 
them again. The conimitee has sot 
tho assessment at three-ilfty, which 
is most reasonable, when ono con­
siders tho magnificence of the ball­
room and tho caliber of tho musicians.
Arabian Ball is Night 
Of Cayety and Revelry
Horner Scores as Poet in Gay 
Musical Fantasy
The installation Of Rho Chapter, 
formerly Kappa Epsilon, local frater­
nity, by Phi Kappa fraternity will be 
held today at the chapter house, *1732, 
Center avenue. Tho installation team 
will consist of tho entire member­
ship of the Pitt chapter and represen­
tatives from the Penn State and 
Pittsburgh Alumni chapters. Follow­
ing the formal establishment of Rho 
chapter, the newly installed members, 
with the assistance of the team, will 
initiate their first group of pledges 
into Phi Kappa.
Tomorrow evening at 6:30 a ban- 
qifet will be given at tho chapter 
house. Besides the members of tho 
Carnegie chapter, and of tho installa­
tion team, the national officers amr 
most of the Plii.Kappa alumni In the 
vicinity will be present. Spooches by 
the national officers will constitute 
the most important events of tho 
evening.
Thursday night tho local chapter 
will give a formal dance at the Uni­
versity Club. Ofllcials of tho school, 
representatives from oach Car nog lo 
fraternity, and members of tho Pitt 
and Pittsburgh Alumni chapters lmvo 
boon invited. Preparations aro be­
ing made for 125 couples.
The Supremo President of Phi Kap­
pa, Frank L: Chinory, and tho Su­
premo Socretary-Treasuror, Walter 
A. Houck, aro expected to arrive in 
tho city at noon today. They will re­
main for tho banquet tomorrow oven- 
ing and, if possibly, for tho dunce on 
Thursday.
Kappa Epsilon, tho local fraternity 
to become Rho Chapter of Phi Kappa 
this afternoon, was founded in April, 
15)23. The porlod slnco its organiza­
tion has been ono of sustained 
growth. Its members are distributed 
through tho upper classes of the 
men’s collogos. They huvo taken an 
active Interest In class and school 
affairs, and have at tho same time 
maintained a high scholastic stand- 
(Continuod on Pago Two.)
Obie’s Brother and Homer 
Valuable Additions For 
Buffalo Trip
REHEARSAL SUNDAY
VALENTINE DANCE IN 
UNION SATURDAY NIGHT
The Scalp and Blado, an organiza­
tion of Carnoglo students whoso 
homes aro in Buffalo, N. Y,, will hold 
a Valentino dance In tho Union, Sat­
urday ovonlng, Fobruary 14.
Bob Bamlcln, chairman for tho 
tho dance has arranged for an out 
of town orchestra to play from 9:00 
o'clock till mid-night. Tho name of 
the orchestra has not yet beon an­
nounced, but it is said to bo a na­
tionally famous one, bookod to play 
In Pittsburgh theaters In the near 
future.
The Scalp and Blade welcomes all 
Carnegie students to their dance. Ad 
mission will be one dollar and a half.
Prof. Hyde of Department of Architecture Conducts
Investigations on Scientific Use of Color
Work is Being Done By Arts Professor
Prof. Hyde, of the Department of 
Architecture, is engaged in a series 
of investigations to determine just 
how far science can be applied to 
the choice and composition of color 
in painting. In his studio, in Design 
School, he has been working for 
months not only with palette, brush­
es, and canvas, but also with vari­
ously colored and shaped disks which 
would seem more at home in a phy­
sicists laboratory. During the war, 
Prof. Hyde was engaged in cama- 
flouage work and his present research 
involves to a great extent an applica­
tion of similar principles.
Color phenomena, as the scientist 
uses it is almost worthless to the ar­
tist without the assistance of the 
psychologist. From a scientific view­
point, a definite color sensation is 
produced by light rays of rfL given 
wave length or by a certain combina­
tion of rays of different wave lengths.
From a psychological view-point, 
this color sensation will in turn pro­
duce other sensations; perhaps a feel­
ing of depression or joy, or it may 
stimulate the mental and physical 
faculties to greater activities. In con 
templating a new painting, the artist 
decides what impression he wishes 
to produce, and knowing the color or 
combination of colors which gives 
that impression, he strives to com­
bine his pigments acordingly. From
the scientist he learns how to pro­
duce his desired shade and quality of 
color, and—the. psychologist suggests 
what emotional effect this color may 
have. Perhaps most artists aro not 
aware of the relation of their art to 
science, and others are unwilling to 
recognize it, maintaining that a suc­
cessful application of their technique 
is dependent only upon experience 
and judgment.
However, a careful inquiry into the 
principles underlying any problem, 
process, or art has never failed to be 
of some use, and although it is pre­
posterous to imagine that art can be 
reduced to a science, yet some of its 
(Continued on Page Two.)
The Genii of the lamp has again 
appeared in the Art School. At his 
bidding have vanished the gay decor­
ation, the incense, the crystal lights, 
all the colorful Arabian setting, the 
result of four months’ work, the 
scene of six hours joyous, carefree 
revelry.
The ball this year was the most 
brilliant since the Fiesta en Granada, 
three years ago. The decorations 
were not only more substantial, but 
also richer and brighter than those 
for the Chinese Ball yast year. The 
costumes displayed more care in con­
struction, and a more discriminating 
selection of colors and material than 
is usual. The crowd had a generally 
well-dressed 'appearance, quite pleas­
ing.
Three prizes for costumes were 
given after the Grand March. That 
for the best-costumed couple was 
awarded to Gus McKee and his part­
ner. Miss Doris Myers’ lovely white 
and gold creation outshone without 
effort the costumes of the other 
ladles, while Stanley Gray was ad­
judged the best dressed man.
The show at midnight easily ful­
filled the expectations of an audience 
which knew what to look forward to 
when such talent as that of Polosle, 
I-Ialdene, Anna Lurla and Ohio New­
man, wus expended on tho production 
of a musical fantasy with tho possi­
bilities for Jovely effects which 
“The Tale of Two Magic Urns” af­
forded. The plot concerns a band 
of Arabian Knights of Rest, led by 
their •'unique" chief, Ala Bam, From 
Dhinalla, a court-wearied poet, thoy 
learn of two beautiful urns In the 
palace of the Calif, and determine to 
seize them. The Calif has been 
warned of the power of the GenH of 
the urns, and is willing to be rid of 
them, but the vengeance of the Genii 
falls on the court and the robber 
(Continued on Page Four)
WESTERN STUDENTS ELECT
NEW OFFICERS FOR YEAR
In a meeting held by the Associa­
tion of Western Students in the Y. 
M. C. A. club rooms last Wednesday, 
officers were elected for the coming 
year. Also preliminary plans were 
laid for holding a dinner dance in the 
near future.
There is a movement on foot to 
change the name of the Association, 
which consists of about two hundred 
members from the mid-western and 
western districts of the country.
There will be a meeting ' of the 
Executive Council on Sunday, Febru­
ary 8tli.
The following officers were elected:
Clarence J. Udd, president, Crystal 
Falls, Mich.
R. A. Bookmeyer, vice president, 
Plattsmouth, Neb.
(Continued on Page Four.)
MUSICAL CLUBS TO 
LEAVE TOMORROW,
Pi Delta Epsilon, Honorary 
Journalistic Fraternity, 
Will Hold Call
Lnst Sunday afternoon the music­
ians got together at the Schenley 
Theater for a special rehearsal. Di­
rector Johnston scheduled this re­
hearsal especially in order that his 
men might become $eoUstomed to tho 
environment of the Schenley and feel 
perfectly at easo when thoy make 
their first appoarahce there. The 
Schenley will stage two performances 
daily by tho clubs on February 23, 24, j 
and 25. Tho Kilties are booked there 
for tho remainder of the week. Next 
Sunday aftornoon the clubs will hold 
another rehoarsal at the Schenley.
Throe concentrated rehearsals have 
been held by tho clubs in tho past 
weok, so they should soon bo in 
shape to prove a valuable advertise­
ment for Carnoglo when they malco 
thoii* Buffalo trip. Thoy aro planning 
to leave tomorow night, and to ap­
pear at Grovo City, Erie, and West- 
Held. Tho final rehearsal for this trip 
will be hold tonight.
In response to his plea for high 
tenors, Dlroctor Johnston lias re­
ceived a most valuable addition to tho 
Glee Club in tho person of Mr. Hor­
ner, a Mtudont of tho Drama Depart­
ment. Mr. Horner, who Is a tenor 
.soloist of unusual talent, is to accom­
pany tho musical clubs on their Buf­
falo trip.
It looks as If Ohio Newman will 
have to got busy If lie wants to main­
tain tho reputation his volco has 
gained for him. At any rate, Ills bro- 
Lhor, who has just roglsterod In tho 
Music Department, Is going on the 
Buffalo, trip. Ohio’s brother has boon 
gifted with an unusually beautiful 
voice, and from all appoarancos his 
future In tho realms ol! music, pro­
mises to rival Ohio's past.
Without doubt those two additions 
will prove valuable assets to tho mus­
ical clubs, and will help to give those 
who are fortunate enough to hour 
them a better Impression of Carhoglo.
Votes For Night School 
Students Late in Arriving
To dato only 1128 of tho 1288 votes 
nocesaary for tho establishment of a 
Night School Council have boon re­
ceived by Dean Tarbell. On Decem­
ber 15, 1924, 2575 ballots were mallud 
to night school students who had re­
gistered up to that date. 1140 voto» 
were received, 1128 for and seven 
against the formation of tho council 
together with thirteen unsigned bal­
lots. This leaves a remainder of 
1435 which have not yet been, re­
turned. The indications are that the 
night school students, due to apathy 
or carelessness, or to both, have no 
desire for tho student government, 
which would result from their favor­
able action for a council.
The council has been the hope of 
night students of the past and the 
possibility of realizing it has come 
through the efforts of Dean Tarbell, 
Dr. Ihrig, and Dr. Baker on behalf 
of tho faculty and of I-Iirning, Pettay, 
Wetlierby, and Kirehren for night 
science, of Gorman, Kaney, Schul- 
theis, and -Edge of Night Arts, and of 
Bittner, Dotler, and Fundis for Night 
Industries. These men labored for 
months on the constitution of the gov­
ernment for the night council, and 
as a result put forward a constitution 
that is almost flawless.
There Is only one obligation to the 
night council, a compulsory fee of 
(Continued on Page Four}
A brief , but very interesting pro­
gram has been aranged for general 
assembly today. Samuel S. McClure, 
New York author and publisher, will 
deliver'a lecture on modern political 
problems. This address will be fol­
lowed by tho usual anouncements. 
and tho assembly will close with a 
few songs by John Gumbert of the 
music department:, A1 Johnson accom­
panying him at the piano.
In addition Pi Delta Epsilon, tho 
honorary journalistic fraternity, will 
make its spring call. PI Delta Epsi­
lon aims to honor all men who have 
shown special interest or ability in 
College publications, and the call to­
day will include those men who are 
doing tho best work on the publica­
tions.
Mr. McClure, who founded Mc­
Clure's Magazine, and is the owner 
of ono of tho world’s largest publish­
ing concerns, will lecture on “World 
Conditions Today.” Ho is especlafly 
well fitted to give a comprehensive 
survoy of this subject, as ho has stud­
ied tho political, industrial, and social 
conditions of many, nations, at first­
hand. Ho has traveled extensively 
visiting nearly every important 
country In tho world sevoiyil times,. 
interviewing the men who. have 
shaped national policies, sooklhg tho 
basic Inlluoneos which have deter­
mined tho political and social changes 
through which the world Is passing.
As a result of thoso studios, Mr. 
McClure has become ono of the- host 
Informed men In America, and has 
won groat praiso for the conclso and 
far-soolng way In which ho has for* 
mulatod and prosorvod his opinions. 
Through his publications t and hltt 
work from tho lecture platform, ho 
has becomo a groat loader of public 
opinion. His discussion' of tho placo 
of tho United States as a world pow­
er in especially Instructive,
The "Michigan Dally," published by 
(Contlnuod on Pago Four)
THIRD ISSUE OF TECH 
JOURNAL OUT SOON
T au Beta Pi Thesis by F„ M, 
McClelland to be One of 
Many Features
The best thesis written by tho Tau 
Beta Pi moil chosen last spring, to­
gether with numerous notoworthy ar­
ticles and Illustrations, are. coutainod 
In tho edition of tho Technical Jour­
nal which goes to proas today. This 
popular campus publication will be- on 
sale noxt weok. Tho editor expects 
more than ordinary enthusiasm to be 
shown in tills issue which'is tho third 
of tho year.
Men high in the technical business’ 
world are, ordinarily, tho only contri­
butors to the magazine. This edition, 
however, contains an article written 
by a student. Tau Beta PI requires 
each of its pledges to write a thesis 
as part of Ills initiation, and it is tho 
one written by F. M. McClelland, 
which the Journol has accepted.
Perhaps the most outstanding con­
tribution is an article describing the 
power plant at Niagara Falls. Ac­
companying It are cuts of the large 
model that has been made of the 
plant. It tells of tho attempts that 
are being made to use all the power, 
without destroying the scenic effect 
of the Falls.
Among the contributors to this copy 
of Carnegie's only scientific publi­
cation, are two graduates. One of 
the alumni writes on motor control, 
while the other tells a fascinating 
story of the efficient control of men.
(Continued on Pago Two.)
Heinie Horsecollar Explains Why He Has
Ceased Attending General Assembly and
Comments on Sauerkraut and Commons Fare
Iloinie Horsecollar has ceased at­
tending General Assembly and fie 
I wants everyone to know just why.
I "Lot It be known," ho explained In a 
statement to tho press "that; my de­
cision is not tho culmination of any 
petty tendencies founded upon Inhor* 
| ent inertia, perpetual procrastination,
I or tho languid lalssez falro attitude 
I which characterizes so many of our j students, but results rather from a 
j thorough consideration of tho basic 
fundamentals involving tho reasons, 
programs and results for and of Gen­
eral Assemblies."
Heinie, incidentally, hails from the 
fastnesses of central Pa., where the 
well-known Pennsylvania Dutch hang
put and where the virile ljnjilos lmvo 
not yet adopted tho fashion of roll­
ing their hone. Ho Is known to tho 
rustics as Pfordelcragcn, but upon 
reaching tho local metropolis, ho 
found the English psoudonym Horse- 
collar preferable If less euphonious. 
He Is well known about tho campus 
through his activities as president of 
tho dobatlng club and for tho great 
sincorlty with which he has always 
attacked all problems confronting 
him. His opposition to tho maxim 
"When on the campus act like a 
Greek" has occasionally subjected 
him to the criticism of being egocen­
tric but his faithful attendance at 
general assemblies belies this.
As is his wont, Ileinlo burst Into 
tho Tartan offlco as wo wore going 
to press and thrusl; a Philllplc upon 
us entitled "In II; fair to call tho com­
mons faro fair?"
"Last Tuesday I got somo sauer­
kraut at tho Commons for lunch,” he 
explained "and anybody knows that, 
a—"
"Not Tuesday,” wo objected.
"Yes Tuesday. I—.”
"But there was General Assembly 
last Tuesday,”—we prided ourselves 
upon our knowledge of campus acti­
vities—"and therefore you couldn't 
have had any lunch,” was the editorial 
ultimatum.
(Continued on Page Two.)

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY. FEBRUARY 10, 1925
battan
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Council.
Entered in the PostoIIIce of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
FRED C. SMITH...................................................................................Schenley 9122
A8SOCIATE EDITORS 
F. D. ROSSINI__________________A. E. KRQGII__________________E. C. FRAZIER
EDITORIAL STAFF
L. II. Harris A. F. Carson R. R. Slt'/.ler D. A. Gardner
MANAGING EDITOR 
FRED T. PHELPS...............................................................................Schenley 9102
NEWS EDIT0R8
W. WINN/NO .........................................'..............................................Schenley 9070
V. B. SMITH.........................................................................................Franklin 5547 '
ALUMNI EDITOR
J. M. GOSS..............................................................................................Schenley 9180
REPORTERS
R. L, Lepper, M. Holllnshead, M. Dutt, E. Tallinadge, M. Tucker, R. Hand,
C. J. Byrne, S. P. Williams, N. Bor/.olla, M. Cohen, S. Well. F. L. Grant, E. 
Ross, II. L. Myers, L. V. Twohlg, F. Finn, F. A. Kolb, A, V. Nern, A. Wingold, 
L. Kelly, M. Stump, M. Nuttall, W. Kiminel.
ATHLETIC EDITOR
J. CHRISTOFF ......................................................................................Schenley 9285
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS 
Margaret McFall, ,T. F. Harris, J. A. C. Foller, McWilliams, D. M. Davidson, 
William Bernard!, B. Kristof.
BUSINESS MANAGER
W. M. GIBSON........................................................................................Schenley 9211
ADVERTISING MANAGER
N. C. WESER ........................................................................................Schenley 9122
CIRCULATION MANAGER
D. MOSKOVITZ ......................................................................................Hazel 2873-M
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
J. W. Metro, A. Grodner, L. Barbrow, N. Alexandor, J. L. Bäuerle, J. P. 
Stri/,ak, Lois Snyder, A. Perreton, G. II. Carl. B. SupowiU, L. Sachs, H. 
Kandell, A. C. Hough, F. W. Moore, R. L. Grlbble.
The Edltor-in-Chief is responsible for the policy o£ this paper; the 
Managing Editor for the make up.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed. 
Signature will be withheld if desired. All news items must be in the sladent 
post oillce bofore 4:30 Thursday.
Tartan Oillce—Room 12, Industries Building. Oillce hours—Daily 12:30' 
1:20.
A STORY
Once upon a time there was ¡1. school called Sowash University 
where young1 men and women studied for their 'respective vocations 
or professions. This school was composed of four colleges.
Each of the four colleges lmd separate assemblies once every 
week except once a month when a general, assembly of the entire 
student body oi; the university was held. The divisional assemblies 
and the general assembly wei'e well, attended. The general assembly 
proved to be an important factor in. the unification of the spirit of 
the school. A common sympathy was thus created between the va­
rious colleges comprising the university.
There came a time in the history of Sowash University when the 
attendance at the divisional assemblies and especially I,lie general as­
sembly of the school began to decrease in alarming proportions. 
Unified school spirit began to be noticeable by its absence. Students 
wore wont to use the weekly assembly hour in eating lunch, in study­
ing, and in. most cases, in. just plain ordinary loafing.
Month after month, the attendance at the general, assembly be­
came less and less, and. the divisional assemblies suffered likewise. 
Matters had come to a, sorry pass, and even though the student gov­
erning body which conducted the general aHsemblios endeavored to 
have attractive and interesting programs at the assembly, the at­
tendance continued to dwindle until only a. mere handllul ol! devoted 
students, who still possessed the old school spirit, were found in at­
tendance at these assemblies. There was on advantage in lamenting 
over this sad situation at the assemblies because the very students 
who needed to be aroused and made to show some interest in the 
school wore those who wore absent.
The situation remained thus I’or some time when the matter was 
'brought to the attention ol! the administration ol! Sowash University. 
The authorities found that, only about ono-.IM!th of the entire student 
.body wore attending the general assembly and about one-fourth were 
.attending the divisional assemblies. The administration then decid­
ed that sinco four-fifths ol! the student body showed, by its absence 
from the assemblies, that they wore not in favor of them, the week­
ly hour whicii was apportioned to assemblies could very woll be 
used I’or classes. As a. result, the schedules ol! Sowash University 
weroi revised and the usual assembly hour was missing Prom the re­
vised schedules, and that hour was thereafter devoted to classes.
A FACT
Tlia.li is a fact, (lluinge the name ol! the school from Sowash to 
Carntgic Tech, and you have a llaot. What’s to be done about it? 
The stud (Mill body as a. whole has shown an antipathy to Hi«’ assem­
blies which is positively dish cartoning to those, in charge. There is 
absolutely no interest in the assemblies; gatherings which should be 
the most popular and interesting of any held in the school.
Editorials have been written; speeches have been made: personal 
appeal^ ¡have been directod; and still there is no change. The only 
conclusion, which can be reached, is that the students of (Carnegie are 
so little interested in their student affairs that they no longer want 
general assemblies, or divisional assemblies either for that matter.
Then, cut them out! No student council will attempt to' force 
upon the students things of which they have so concertedly expressed 
their disapproval as they have of the assemblies. Facts have shown 
that he students do not want general assemblies. What follows?
Schedules, broken by vacant hours, are inefficient. The faculty 
will be only too glad to remedy this by scheduling classes during the 
hour now given over to the students for assemblies. “But we don’t 
want that,” object the students. What do they want? They don’t 
want what they have. They don’t want anything else. What can the" 
Student Council do? The last year and a half have shown conclu­
sively that the assemblies are not wanted. The fact that our vaunted 
Carnegie Spirit, the Clan loyalty, have proven themselves non ex­
istent in this case, have nothing to do with the matter. We don’t 
want assemblies; then we’ll have classes.
This is not meant as an appeal. This is an expression of the 
student opinion on the assembly question as expressed by the student 
actions "during the past. They plainly show no interest in' this thing 
which their Student Council and the administration have co-operated 
in arranging for tliein.
Let us cut out the general assemblies!
THE GRILL
Without going into details of construction, we wish to express 
our pleasure with the general appearance and idea of the new Grill 
which was recently opened to the students. It completely outclasses 
anything now existent on the campus, or anywhere in the city for 
that matter. We wish to congratulate Mr, Orbiu on his work. The 
Grill is the product of hard work and good planning, and will un­
doubtedly prove to be one of the most popular resorts on the cam­
pus. Ons congratulations', Mir. Orbin.___________________________________
PROF. HYDE OF DEPT. OF 
ARCHITECTURE CONDUCTS 
INVESTIGATION ON SCIENTI­
FIC USE OF COLOR
(Continued From Pago One) 
details can be rendered more intellig­
ible by an application of scientific 
principles. Especially is tills true of 
color in painting. Art is not an Imi­
tation, it is a transcription and Inter­
pretation. The range of color which 
can be covered 011 canvas with pig­
ments is very small compared to the 
profusion of hues and values which 
nature lavishes upon the objects in 
her domain.
The view of a landscape made by 
photographically reproducing the de­
tails and colors would give a drab 
and entirely inadequate effect. There
1» no plgmont whteh can roproduoo 
da/'/.llng whlto snow or glurlng min* 
Ughi, but by thtì propcr uso ol' con* 
I trast and brilllant colora il; Is posslblo 
l’or thè ai'Usl (0 givo thè lmprosslon 
1 of such tlufigs. Thus he doals largo,ly 
willi scnsatlons and thè niannor to 
product tliom wlt.li thè liinlted rango 
of pigments at bis coiumand.
Prof. Hyde, in bis rosoai'ch is con- 
cernod wtth thè princlples wliich gov- 
ern thè awakenlng of tliese sensa- 
tlons by means of color. To he suro, 
this is a vital consideration in thè 
aquiremsnt of sitili by any artist, but 
few bave made thè attempi to delve 
! so deeply into thè subject and to turri 
to science for assistance.
The horse was hungry, 
couldn’t eat a bit.
but he
. The Week ] 
in the 
World’s News i
By Leslie P. Beebe
1. The NRALS Asscrto its Prerogative.
2. The Renolution of the House For­
eign Relations Committee.
3. Report of the Republican 8tcering 
Commltteo.
4. Representative Fairfield’s Kcaolu- 
tlon.
Much cryptic comment has been 
made I11 editorials and elsewhere on 
the House of Representative's asser­
tion of Its prerogative, when it sent 
back to the Senate the Postal Pay 
and Itato Bill with the statement that 
It was a revenue bill and as such 
must originate in the House.
On January 30, the Postal Pay and 
Rate Will was passed by the Senate. 
It made provision to raise $47,000,000 
of the $08,000,000 to take care of the 
proposed wago increase in the new 
Postal Bill. On February 3rd, by a 
vote of 225 to 153 the House returned 
the- Bill on the grounds that a re­
venue bill, which this very obviously 
purported to be, could originate only 
in the House.
Little by little the House members 
had been coming under the influence 
and control of the Senato mem­
bers, largely because of the patron­
age system whereby practically all- 
federal officers, both state and local, 
are confirmed from the upper House. 
The Senate members hold the key to 
state wants. In order to hold consti­
tuencies, appointments must be made, 
and thus the senators have come to 
dominate House policies. While this 
sign of aggressiveness is small and 
may have little portent, nevertheless 
we can hope that the members of the 
lower house will more and more re­
flect the opinions of their own consti­
tuencies and be less the puppets of 
the Senate.
ANNOUNCE NAMES 
OF COMMITTEE
HEINIE HORSECOLLAR EXPLAINSPHI KAPPPA TO INSTALL
LOCAL CHAPTER TODAY
For Interfraternity Formal 
Dance—Plans Taking 
Shape Rapidly
GOOD MUSIC ASSURED
The opposition to the World Court 
by Senator Borah, Chairman of the 
Foreign Relations Committee, and the 
majority of the members has resulted 
In increased activity by outside agen­
cies to put the entire proposition be­
fore the Senate for a vote. Of par- 
ticular importance as indicating the 
trend of public opinion is the Reso­
lution offered by the Foreign Rela­
tion M Committee of the House en­
dorsing the World Court and asking 
for its adoption by the United States.
The text of the resolution reads 
something as follows:
Whereas a World Court known as 
the World Court: of International Jus­
tice has been established and is now 
functioning at the Hague, and
WhorGas the traditional policy of 
the United States has earnestly fav­
ored the avoidance of war and the 
settlement of international controver­
sies by arbitration, or a judicial pro- 
coss, and
Whereas this Court in its organiza­
tion and probable development pro­
mises a now order in which contro­
versies between nations will bo set­
tled in an orderly way according to 
principles of light and justice, there* 
fore
Bo It resolved that the ITouso of 
Representatives desires to express its 
cordial approval of the said Court and 
an oarnost desire that the United 
Slaton give an early adherence to the 
protocol establishing the sahio, with 
roKorval.loiiH recommended by Presi­
dent ITarding and Presidont Coolldgo.
II11 it further resolved, that the 
House expresses it« readiness to par- 
1, leipato in the enactment of sueli le­
gislation as will necessarily follow 
such approval.
The Report el’ the Republican Steer­
ing Committee 011 the number and 
order of bills to be presented in the 
Senate bofore adjournment; .lias 
brought a. number of questions to the 
foreground, especially that of agri­
culture and of the pet administration 
policies. Tlie bills 011 agriculture 
were entirely loiTout of schedule and 
the President when advised gave out 
the statement that the responsibility 
now rests with Congress, and espec­
ially the Agricultural Committees of 
the two houses. He feels that the 
Capper-Williams Bill would be very 
effective but that the Norris-Siuclair 
Bill and the McMary-Hanger Bill 
would not solve the problems. The 
first establishes Cooperative Market­
ing Boards, Associations and Clear­
ing Houses while the latter two estab­
lish little short of a price fixing or­
ganization.
The Agricultural Conference which 
has just reported to the President 
laid most of its criticism on two agen­
cies, the Interstate Commerce Com-; 
mission and the Banking SyStem. The 
lam against the former is that they 
are more judicial than constructive 
deciding rate cases rather than help­
ing to determine rates in the basic 
industries. As to the Banking sys­
tems they feel that we do not have 
a unit system, especially in view of 
the fact that 10,000 state banks are 
ineligible to join the Federal Reserve 
System.
Much has been said in these col­
umns concerning the farmer prob­
lem and apace prevents a reiteration, 
but let us say that; ho can solve his 
problems only by, cooptation, by a 
wider knowledge of markets and mar­
keting, by diversification of crops and 
particularly by putting Ills farm 011 a 
business basis and stopping many 
small leaks that ruin the farmor’s 
olnincos of financial succoss.
To come back again to the report 
of the Steering Committee, the bills 
to bo presented in order are—the 
German Commercial Treaty, the Mc­
Lean Bill authorizing the Treasury to 
reduce interest rates on government 
loans to railroads whenever the Inter­
state Commerce Commission regards 
such changes as necessary, the Civil 
Service Retirement Bill, the Measure 
enlarging the Naval Reserve, the Mc- 
Fadden Bill allowing National Banks 
to establish branches, the Brookhart 
Game Refuge Bill, the Governmental 
Department Re-Organization Plan,
Plans for the Inter-fraternity formal 
dance are taking definite shape. The 
names of the members of the commit­
tee have been announced as Paul 
Bowron, chairman; Buck James, Vic 
Mollenauer and Kline Fulmer. The 
committee has been working in con­
junction with Jimmy Brennan, the 
booking agent, for several nationally 
famous orchestras, to procure a musi­
cal aggregation of deserved reputation 
for the occasion.
Brennan looks after engagements 
for Jan Garber and Hines Brothers in 
this vicinity, and he and the commit­
tee are considering Paul Speclit for 
the Pan-Hellenic. They expect to 
make the announcement of the orches­
tra in the next Tartan. The chairman 
gives assurance that the music will 
be the best obtainable.
All the members of the committee 
have previously worked on dances 
which have proved great successes, 
and they are enthusiastic about the 
possibilities of this year’s formal. 
The Inter-fraternity dance is the one 
frolic in which all fraternity men can 
join without a care or worry. No one 
has to play the host, and no one needs 
to give a whoop about maintaining the 
reputation of the dear old shack. 
These considerations make it almost 
impossible for the loyal brothers to 
contain themselves, aad they cut loose 
ia unbridled joy.
The only stiff thing about the dance 
is the starched bosom, and it nearly 
always wilts by midnight when the 
party goes into high gear.. Everyone 
goes to the formal with the same idea 
—to have a good time with the fel­
lows and girls whom he sees at his 
own house dances and with the many 
others whom he would like to see at 
them if his house were large enough. 
That idea is bound to engender the 
spirit that makes the dance a suc­
cess.
the French Spoilation Plan and the 
WadswOrth Amendment.
Legislative matters begin to take 
a more serious turn Avlien the makers 
of our laws try to get more real in­
formation on the subjects that are 
being debated. ‘ We have been pass­
ing many laws and deciding many 
policies for the Philippines in the last 
few years without, the legislative bod­
ies’ having adequate conception of 
tlie actual situations, outside of their 
preconceptions.
fn other words wo had been legis­
lating for U ,000,000 people, on an 
archipelago 1100 miles long and 500 
miles wide, at a distance of 10,000 
miles away, with little or 110 practical 
knowledge of the country—indeed a 
sad commentary on some of the' ele­
ments of our government.
Refreshing indeed is the Resolution, 
introduced into the House by L. W. 
.Fairfield to the effect that the Com­
mittee 011 Insular Affairs go to the 
Philippines tills summer and investi­
gate conditions. The cynic will im­
mediately acclaim that it is merely 
a chance for an excurison at the ex­
pense of the government. Be that as 
it may, the time is coming when no 
important legislation will bo passed 
until there Is before that body an nil- 
biased report; of conditions, and the 
questions will be discussed using tills 
material not only as a guide but as 
a decisive factor. Then will our law­
makers. begin to justify the represen­
tative systom.
(Continued From Page une.)
"I didn’t go to assembly and I am 
not going any more!”
“Wha-at?”
“I’m not going any more. Why, re­
member the last one before that. 
When I got there, there were an odd 
hundred Plebes in the balcony, about 
thirty upper classmen downstairs and 
some girls. The president rose to an­
nounce that Beta Pi Kappa was about 
to make its customary call and intro­
duced someone who would explain 
why. This fellow then introduced 
another even less distinguished ap­
pearing bird w*ho started calling 
names. In the meantime half the 
gang downstairs had climbed up on 
the stage and the rest followed one 
by one to have their hands shaken 
while the Plebes and the girls 
clapped.
“I was the only man left down­
stairs. The speaker looked at me 
and then everybody else did. He 
scrutinized his list but couldn’t find 
my name so he sat down with a sigh 
and Kappa Pi Beta slipped off the 
stage and out the side door when 
they thought no one was looking. 
Then the lights went out and Pro­
fessor Cod gave an illustrated lecture 
telling about his troubles with bats 
in South Africa which the plebes 
seemed to think was funny though I 
don't see just why. When the lights 
were turned on again I was the only 
audience, left besides the president 
and since then I have been think­
ing.”
"Marvellous,” we muttered from
force of habit, "and the crux of your 
cogitations provokes your present 
abstinence?”
“Huh—Oh yes. Now why weren’t 
there more students there?”
"We give up.”
"Because they weren’t interested. 
Why weren't you there? Because you 
weren’t interested! And why not?
The speakers are always good—
you’ll admit that.”
"Yes,” dubiously.
"Well then—here’s the dope. You
have lectures in Physics, Chemistry, 
Economics several times a week be­
sides all kinds of talks in recitations 
and labs and naturally with so many 
elevating ideas thrown at you, you 
miss half of them. So when you hear 
that Herman H. Blah is going to dis­
cuss the "Decentralization of Indus­
try” at assembly you rush to the Com­
mons to get a good place in line and 
work the cross word puzzle. It’s just 
too much of a good thing. You want 
to relax and they offer you a talk 
which benefits no one but the press 
bureau."
"But assemblies bring the students 
together—.”
"They don’t. Not nearly to the. de­
gree that the Commons does. In the 
first place students don't come around, 
and those there can only see those in 
front of them, unless they are im­
polite enough to risk wenching their 1 
necks, and even then what good will 
that do? The only spirit that per­
vades the body is one of impending 
sleep and the only common desire 
is that to keep awake. Of course 
then there is the moral uplift of know­
ing you did the right thing when it 
was disagreeable, just like kissing 
Aunt Dora and playing with her kid.” 
"Do you want to discontinue as­
semblies. That—.”
‘'Certainly not. But make them at­
tractive. You never heard of anyone 
being too tired to go to "Rose Marie” 
or the Science Stag. Don’t try to 
educate the students at assemblies. 
They carry 54 unite for that al­
ready. Amuse them, entertain them, 
don’t MAKE them think, but arrange 
a program where they can dream and 
laugh and let their imagination run 
wild without a single serious thought. 
The students need relaxation and in 
a technical school there must be the 
necessary supply of talent if it exists 
anywhere.
Student Calendar
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10
General Assembly.........................,.................11:40 A. M., Music Hall
Basket Ball—Plebes vs. Indiana Normal.......7:00 P. 3VL, Gymnasium
Varsity vs. Geneva...................8:30 P. M., Gymnasium
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 12
Chapel.....................................................................12:50, Little Theater
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13
Basket Ball—Pitt (two games).......................7:00 P. M., Gymnasium
“Anne Pedersdotter”...................?..............8:30 P. OVL, Little Theater
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 14
Scalp and Blade Dance...............................................8:30 P. BY1: Union
“Anne Pedersdotter”.................................8:15 P. M., Little Theater
MONDAY, TUESDAY AND WEDNESDAY, 
FEBRUARY 16, 17 AND 18
“Anne Pedersdotter’’...................................8:15 P. M., Little Theater
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 19
Chapel......................................................................12:50, Little Theater
“Anne Pedersdotter”................................8:15 P. M., Little Theater
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 20
Basket Ball—Plebes vs. California Normal.........................G-ymnasium
“Anne Pedersdotter”...................................8:15 P. M., Little Theater
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 21
Basket Ball—Plebes vs. Kiski..............................................Gjnnnasimn
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27 
Women’s Junior Prom....................................................Schenley Hotel
(Continued From Page One.) 
ing, the fraternity taking. second 1 
place in the ranking for last year.
Kappa Epsilon presented its peti­
tion to Phi Kappa in the fall of 1924. 
The local organization was visited by 
the national officers and by investi­
gating committees from the Pitt, 
Penn State, and Ohio State chap­
ters. Their reports were distributed 
to the various chapters in time for 
votes to be taken before the Christ­
mas holidays, and instructed dele­
gates were sent to the national con­
vention at Madison; Wisconsin, De­
cember 29 to 31. The petition was 
favorably acted upon at that time, 
and a Phi Kappa charter was grant­
ed to Kappa Epsilon. Phi Kappa is 
the twelfth national fraternity to in­
stall a chapter at Carnegie.
LUTHERAN CONVENTION 
RESOLVES AGAINST WAR
OLD BUILDING COMMITTEE
BIDS McKINNEY FAREWELL
The board of the Faculty Dining 
Room of the Woodlawn Inn was 
graced last Saturday night by a ban­
quet given in the honor of Mr. Mc­
Kinney who designed the startling ef­
fects of the eating house.
The spread was given under the 
auspices of the old building commit­
tee which included among its num­
bers Mr. Orbin and Henry Hornbostel 
and many other architects and build- 
ders of the Pittsburgh district. Mr. 
Hood who won the prize in the de­
sign of the Chicago Tribune building 
is another member of the committee 
who has gained almost national 
prominence.
All the members of the old com­
mittee who are still in the district, 
were present to bid McKinney good­
bye as he will shortly leave for Eu­
rope on a sketching tour. Carnegie 
is deeply indebted to Mr. McKinney 
for the exquisite decorations of the 
Inn which were carried out entirely 
under his direction.
“But don’t get a number of half- 
baked skits. Even though assembly 
is free, the students want something 
good. They admire grace, skill and 
art when well executed, and im­
promptu stuff rarely goes across. An 
assembly program requires the same 
attention that Campus Week, the 
Arts Ball and the Science Stag do 
and I’ll bet that on such a basis the 
Commons would have to close down 
Tuesday noons.”
"But now that sauerkraut—.”
y^THEONLY 
SQUIRREL
-BP•~1SQ UI•R 
AFFELDER~and SMITH
1717 MURRAY AVENUE 
Hazel 5149 Near Forbea
First Church of Christ, 
Scientist
Clyde Street, near Fifth Avenue 
Sunday, 11 A. M. and 8 P. M. 
Wednesday, 8 P. M.
Sunday School, 11 A. M.
MEN’S STYLE SHOP
Connors & Conway
FORBES STREET, OAKLAND
The Lutheran Student House was 
the scene of unusual activity during 
the week-end. Forty delegates from 
ten universities and colleges of the 
Ohio valley region met in conference 
to discuss: Living The Fullest Life.
The institutions represented were: 
U. of W. Va.: U. of Michigan; P. C. 
W.; U. of Indiana; Thiel; Pitt; Wit­
tenberg; Augustana; Ohio State; 
Michigan State Normal; and Car­
negie.
The particular points stressed in 
the convention was that Christianity 
places upon its followers the oblige 
tion of sharing with others their ex­
periences. It was especially brought 
out by Rev. Harry that a Christian 
has nothing of which to be ashamed, 
but has, on the contrary, something 
to give to others.
THIRD ISSUE OF TECH
JOURNAL GOES TO PRESS
(Continued From Page One.) 
They are of especial interest to pros­
pective industrial engineers.
The new office of the Journel has 
been very satisfactory to the staff. 
The business department, however, 
is in need of some new blood. There 
are very few upper-classmen out for 
the big positions, so that men anxious 
to earn their activity insigma before 
they leave school should report to 
the office under room 218.
Dr.—Can’t this be settled out of 
court.
Soph and Frosh—That’s what we 
we’re doing when you interfered.
"PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS"
First Unitarian Church
Ellsworth and Morewood Aves. 
L. Walter Mason, D.D., Minister
Sunday School, 9:45 A. M.
Preaching Service, 11:00 A. M.
Young People’s Meeting, 6:30 
P. M.
Special Invitation to Students.
European Tours
For College Men and Women
SUMMER 1925 
64 Dayo
$395 and up
College credit up to 8 hours 
if desired
For full particulars nddrana
NEW YORK UKIVER8ITY
Tours Division 
XXO East 42nd Street New York
SEATS
25cSCHENLEY
ALL
SEATS
25oTHEATER
CONTINUOUS 2 TO 11 P. M.
Direction Enterprises Theaters Co., HARRY DAVIS, General Manager
MONDAY, TUESDAY AND 
WEDNESDAYSCHCENLCY
Featuring Senna Owen, Gladys 
Leslie and Matt Moore.
From the novel by Kathleen 
Norris. Directed by Albert 
Capellani.
-Sportiight FilmAesop’s Fable— 
—Latest News.
THURSDAY, FRIDAY AND 
SATURDAY
Reginald Denny 
in “OH’ DOCTOR”
With Mary Astor, Otis Harlan 
and Martha Mattox.
From the Saturday Evening 
Post Story by Harry Leon Wil­
son. A riot of thrills and spills. 
Felix the Cat Comedy, News-Re-
- SPECIAL ATTRACTION-
MAZIE BIGLER
Exceptional Dancer with Nimble Feet and Unusual Grace, and
JACK PITZER’S ORCHESTRA
Playing the Latest Song Hits with Snappy, Rythmic Vigor and Sway.
Children are SAFE at the Schenley
Interesting FEATURES, CLEAN COMEDIES, EDUCATIONAL 
TRAVEL REVIEWS and the latest NEWS in motion provide the 
PROPER diversion for the KIDDIES as well as for the tired MOTHER 
who needs RELAXATION. The cost is so CONVENIENT—CHIL­
DREN ARE ADMITTED for 10 CENTS until six o’clock.
NO TROUBLE TO PARK AT THE SCHENLEY
exjfi^Birio^
ofC£o Tyres
HA TS ^ HABERDASHER Y 
SHOES
William Penn Hotel 
Monday and Tuesday, 
February 9 and 10 
Jim Boyle, 
Representative
¿LDA
Fifth Avenue at 46th St. 
NEW YORK

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY. FEBRUARY 10, 1925THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
- PLAID ATHLETICS -
SKIBO PLEBES WIN 
OVER CALIFORNIA
Normalités Bow to Plebes in 
Thrilling Battle in New 
Gymnasium
The Carnegie Plebes nosed out the 
California Normal quintet, 23 to 22, 
last Friday night in a see-sawing, 
lard playing, gritty, preliminary to 
the Varsity-Grove City game.
Two of the yearlings who had been 
playing regularly all season, Captain 
Sebastian, guard, ana “Howdy” 
Oroskloss, right forward, have been 
forced to withdraw for the remain­
der of the season in order to have 
more time for their studies, and 
•Coach John Irwin had an entirely 
new combination on duty.
Munro was switched from left to 
right forward, 'Hurd going in for his 
first start of the season at left for­
ward, Ritts was moved from center 
-to left guard, Bromley another new 
starter jumping center, and Cowan 
playing at right guard was the only 
•man to retain his former position.
Bromley proved to be the sensa­
tion of the evening, by sinking four 
beautiful field goals from well back 
toward the center of the floor. Cow­
an played a remarkably fine floor 
game, being, a, bearcat on the de­
fensive, and was much responsible 
for the team work shown. He Is a 
liusky, reliable player and should be 
of value to the varsity next year.
The Plebes were in there every 
minute, scrapping with the same spir­
it that characterizes every Carnegie 
Tech team—they won fairly, played 
a clean, hard game and deserved the 
•victory.
The lineup:
Carnegie Plebes—23.
California—22.
Munroe ..................F..................................................... Wolff
Hurd ....................F;....................... Lee
Bromley ................C.............. Wagner
Conran ....................G---------- Ashman
Ritts .....................G.................. Bruce
Field goals — Munro, Hurd 2, 
Bromley 4, Cowan 2, Wolff 5, Ash­
man 2, Bruce, Robbins.
Foul goals—Plebes, 5 out of 5; 
California, 4 out of 7.
Substitutions—Feldstein for Ritts, 
Hitts for Feldstein; Seibert for Cow­
an, Cowan for Seibert, Mock for 
Bromley, Bromley for Mock, Feld­
stein for Munro, Munro for Feld­
stein.
Referee—Beggs Snyder.
Any “Tech” students who are not 
wearing some pin or button, showing 
“Carnegie" symbol can get the miss­
ing article at Singer's Store, 122 Fifth 
avenue, Jenkins Arcade.
Craig Restaurant
The place where all the fellows 
EAT
412 CRAIG STREET
* INTER-FRAT-DORM GAMES 
V SCHEDULED THIS WEEKONLY EIGHT TEAMS 
REMAIN UNBEATEN
Wednesday, February 11. *
1 Kappa Epsilon vs. Delta Mu * 
..(7:30). *
1 Beta Sigma Rho vs. Henderson •!* 
Hall (7:30.) *
1 Theta Xi vs. Woodlawn Club ? 
(7:30.) *
1 Alpha Tau Omega vs. Delta -*• 
Upsilon (8:30.) v
¦ Delta Chi Rho vs. lota Sigma ?
¦ Delta (8:30.) ?
Thursday, February 12. *
1 Pi Kappa Alpha vs. Boss Hall *
• (7:30.) *
Kappa Sigma vs. Sigma Alpha v
Epsilon (7:30.) *>
¦ Scobel Hall vs. Welch Hall ?
• 7:30.) *
• Sigma Epsilon Phi vs. Sigma *
¦ Nu (8:30.) *
• Delta Tau De1lta vs. Delta Phi ?
Delta (8:30.) *
TARTAN READY FOR Pin 
PASSERS FRIDAY NIGHT
The climax of Carnegie’s basket 
ball schedule is slated for this Fri­
day night on the Tartan's home 
floor. At that time the quintet that 
represents the University of Pitts­
burgh will invade Carnegie’s terri­
tory to endeavor to gain undisputed 
claim on the qity basket ball cham­
pionship.
Since Pitt and Carnegie resumed 
relations in 1923, the Tartans have 
battled the Panthers on the basket 
ball court on three occasions. Their 
first meeting was at the dedication 
of the new Carnegie gymnasium. The 
game was one of the most exciting 
,palyed in the Carnegie gym last year. 
An extra period was required by the 
Pittites to eke out a four point vic­
tory over Tech. Later on in the sea­
son, Carnegie handed Pitt a decisive 
lacing by a good margin. Bu,t this 
year Carnegie lost by a 31 to 20 
score at Trees gym. This ga'me gave 
Pitt the edge having won two and 
lost but one. On Friday the Tar­
tans will endeavor to even the count.
Carnegie is materially aided by the 
return to eligibility of "Toots” 
Amanns. The teams' play last Fri­
day when they held the powerful 
Grove City quintet to a 34 to 31 
'count goes to show that they are 
now on a par with some of the best 
teams in the Tri-state district, Pitt 
is also strengthened by Elmer Lissfelt, 
a Wonderful center, who could not 
play the first semester.
The game is bound to be a good 
one and those desiring good seats are 
advised to come early. A prelim­
inary game will be played between 
the Freshman teams of the two 
schools. The prelim is scheduled to 
start at 7:00.
Al: “You look good enough to eat.” 
Sal: “Suppose we run down to the 
restaurant then.”
Don’t Be An Antique
Some people look like an old relic in formal clothes that 
were tailored years ago. Let us Rent you one of our New 
Models. You'll see the difference.
Largest stock between New York and Chicago.
Whittington Dress Suit Co.
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE 
Smithfleld 0341
PITTSBURGH, PA. 
Hours: 8:30—5:30
Telephone Schenley 0870-J
Approved Marinello Shop
Marcel Waving—Manicuring 
Shampooing, Facial and Scalp 
Treatments.
314 FORBES BLDG. Oakland 
MARIE A. GARRETT
LEARN TO DANCE
—at the—
Jacques School of Dancing 
Craig and Forbes Streets 
Beginners Monday and Friday 
evenings. Advanced Thursday and 
Saturday evenings- Private lessons 
by appointment.
This is a School—
Not a public dance hall.
When You Face the 
Business World
When your school life ig over and 
you face the business world, you 
will appreciate the bank connec­
tions that you form today. The ex­
perience in financial matters which 
a bank account affords, will 
strengthen your confidence and 
make more likely your chances of 
success.
We invite your consideration of the 
Mellon National Bank. Regardless 
of the size of your account you will 
find here a genuine spirit of serv­
ice in the conduct of your financial 
affairs.
Capital and Surplus $13,500,000.00
Mellon National Bank
Pittsburgh, Pa.
“PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS”
Oh, you Girlies, come in and 
get a Beautiful Marcel Wave for 
only 50c. Quick service.
418 SOUTH CRAIG STREET 
COLLEGIATE BARBER SHOP 
MRS. HAZE, Operator
Ye Old Schenley 
Lunoh
The place where all good fel- 
loTya meet and enjoy a good 
meal.
Special 35c plate dinner, In­
cluding dassert.
FORuES ABOVE CRAIG
Delta Upsilon, Kappa Epsilon 
and Scobel Hall Play 
Well Last Week
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Men’s Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Square East Liberty
As was predicted, last week's 
games did much to separate the pro­
verbial wheat from the equally pro­
verbial chaff, as to Interfraternity 
basket ball standings. Of the orig­
inal twenty-four entrants but eight 
remain unconquered, and this hand­
ful is certain to be still further re­
duced before another week has 
passed.
The big surprise of the week was 
the overwhelming defeat of the Kap­
pa Sigma team by the hitherto ob­
scure Kappa Epsilon entry, 22 to 6. 
Sichi and Baum scored frequently 
for the latter, while keeping their 
opponents from a single, hold goal 
until the final quarter. This was 
Kapp’a Epsilon’s second win and 
leaves them tied with Beta Thet Pi 
and Sigma Alpha Epsilon for the 
lead in the American League.
Of these other two, Beta Theta Pi, 
which showed up rather weakly in 
their last contest came through with 
a decisive victory over Delta Mu, 
mainly by reason of Bastian’s num­
erous goals; while the S. A. E. team 
scored its first real win in upsetting 
the Sigma Nu’s, Lohr’s shooting 'be­
ing the feature.
Delta Upsilon disposed of Pi Kap­
pa* Alpha after four hard-fought 
periods in what proved to be the 
best encounter of all. Score, 19 to 
15. The former had quite a lead at 
half time, but a spurt by the Pi 
Ivaps and the banishment of Good­
win from the game enabled the spec­
tators to witness a neck and neck 
finish in all that the term implies. 
That the D. U.’s won out was due 
more to their guards and center 
than to the forwards, who failed to 
score during the entire game. 
Schwab and Goodwin were easily 
the luminaries.
The dorms settled their argument 
very nicely, Scobell Hall winning out 
as expected although meeting stiff 
opposition from McGill. The former 
is now the only dormitory' team 
that has not lost a game, Boss Hall, 
on the other hand, claims the doubt­
ful distinction of not having won 
one, losing to I-Iendqrson Wednes­
day.
Theta Xi lost to- the A. T. O. ag­
gregation by the low score of 6 to 
3. Alpha Tau Omega is now sharing 
the lead with Delta Upsilon in the 
National League, and is scheduled 
'to battle with them for the undis­
puted leadership next Wednesday 
night.
In the Federal League three teams 
are tied for first place, Delta Tau 
Delta, Scobell Hall and Kappa Sigma 
Rho. Very little action Is promised 
here for some time, though, as the 
first two do not meet till the end 
of the season.
Results of games last week: 
NATIONAL
Beta Sigma Itho................................. 30
Woodlawn Club ............................... 12
Alpha Tau Omega............................. fi
Theta Xi ............................................. 3
Delta Upsilon ................................... Ifl
PI Kappa Alpha ............................... 15
Henderson Hall ..........................». 26
Boss Hall .......................................... 12
AMERICAN
Delta Mu ...........................................
Beta Theta Pi...................................
Sigma Alpha Epsilon. 
Sigma Nu ...................
Kappa Epsilon 
Kappa Sigma .
On the Plaid Screen
J. F. CHRISTOFF
IT WAS A HUMDINGER
Those students and alumni who failed to witness the Grove City—Tartan 
fracas in our gym last. Friday missed one of the best games of the year in 
Pittsburgh. It was one of those contests which bring you to your feet time 
and again, every nerve tense and the blood racing through the veins with 
unusual vigor. When the Skibos lunged ahead in the third quarter it looked 
like a Tartan victory, for our boys were going at top speed without any signs 
of a let-up. How the rooters did howl!
What a different brand of basket ball from that displayed against Prince­
ton in December! It was practically the same lineup that had faced Prince­
ton, but a greatly improved one. The boys passed, feinted, fought—in short, 
did everything a good team is supposed to do. Had Dame Fortune been with 
them in their long shots, many of which rolled all around the rim and then 
fell out of the basket, it might have been a different story.
But we are not complaining. We are proud of the boys, for they vindi­
cated themselves thoroughly; and from now on more than ever, wo are sure, 
they will have the whole-hearted support of the student body. They clearly 
demonstrated that they can play just as good a brand of basket ball us the 
best team in the district, and we predict that their future opponents are in 
for some strenuous sessions when they line up against the rejuvenated 
slcibo quint.
GENEVA NEXT
There should be some more big doings in the Slcibo gym this evening 
when the fast-stepping Geneva quintet faces the Tartan. Geneva holds the 
dictinction of.already having defeated both Pitt and Grove City this year, 
a feat the Skibos have been unable to do as yet. However, the Plaid holds 
a victory over Geneva, so figure it out. The old dope leaves everything 
as clear as mud, or as some of the Tartan cross word puzzles.
In brief—Geneva was the only team thus far to take the measure of the 
highly touted Grove City aggregation; Grove City defeated Carnegie; Car­
negie in turn triumphed over Geneva in a previous engagement. Get out 
your paper and pencil, brush the cob-webs from your brain as you try to 
remember all the formulas you learned in math, physics, mechanics, E. E. 
and the others, use them all, and ask any one who knows and you’ll be* 
sure to bet on the winner tonight.
In another column on this page js an article showing just how Carnegie 
and Geneva stand in the matter of Basket ball. Read it and learn why the 
game this evening will be worth while seeing.
AND DON’T FORGET PITT
As if such a thing were possible. There is no use trying to disguise the 
fact—Coach Lubic and his men would sooner win the game from Pitt on 
Friday than any other game on the schedule. And we would not be far from 
the truth were we to say the same thing from Pitt’s viewpoint. Both teams 
will be “on edge” for this struggle, and it is possible.that every seat in the 
spacious gymnasium will be occupied by fans wishing to see the great rivals 
in action. Last year an enormous crowd turned out for the dedication game, 
but it looks'now as if persons will be turned away Friday because of lack of 
room even in our large gym. .The advice is this—come early, see the 
Fresliies of both schools break the ice, and be "sitting pretty” for the var­
sity game which follows.
ACTING-CAPTAINS
With the absence of Captain Midge Matter from the lineup, an actlng- 
captain -will be necessary for the remainder of the soason. Coach Lubic will 
try out a new stunt in selecting a leader for oach game; ho is going to allow 
each member of the team act as captain for one gamo In the course of the 
season. His method of choosing the captain will be a novel, one—the men 
will serve In alphabetical order. In the Grove City gamo Annins acted as 
captain; against Geneva it will bo Boede if ho starts the contest—if not, 
Conrad will draw the assignment; and so on through the list.
The advisability of this procedure will doubtless bo questioned by some, 
but Lubic apparently knows what he is doing, and probably wants to secure 
the greatest possible harmony on the toam. The next fow games should bo 
productive of results in the niattor of games won.
It is with deep grief that wo learn of the death of Jim Anderson's father. 
Mr. Anderson had always beon an ardent follower of Plaid athletics, and was 
a popular figure at football and basket ball gamos here for sovorul yoars. 
Our heart-felt sympathy is extended to .Tim and the rest of the family.
It seems that Coach Ben Lubic has not fully rocovored from his Illness 
of a woelc ago. He was not himself at the Grovo City game, and was not on 
hand yestorday to direct practice. It is hoped that be will bo well and ablo 
to lead his charges against the Covenantors tonight.
Jerry Fay, tall contor of the Grovo City quint, was possibly diroctly 
responsible for tlieir victory last Friday. Late In the third quartor, aftor tho 
Skibos had secured a four-point load, Fay was injected into tho gamo. It 
seemed to turn tho tide in favor of tho Crimson. Fay is a tall boy, about 
six feet six.,
Tall good men sure nro a big asset on a basket ball team. Wo learn 
that Hackensack High defeated Passaic High of Now Jorsoy after that toam 
had set up a world's record of 15!) consorvatlvo victories, and that ovory 
one of the Hackensack Loam was well over six foot in height.
Don’t lot anyone toll you that Bert Munhall can’t cook chop suoy. Ask 
Purl Anderson—ho took throe helpings, and every one of them generous ones 
at that, last Saturday. However, It was tho first time wo ever saw Puri 
staliod at a meal. Ho couldn’t quite finish the third pluto.
VARSITY AND PLEBES—LET’S WIN A FEW NOW!
TARTANS LOSE TO GROVE
CITY IN CLOSE GAME
Sigma Epsilon Phi......................... 2
Acacia .................................(forfeit) 2
FEDERAL
Delta Tau Delta............................... 18
Delta Chi Rho................................... S
Kappa Sigma Rho. 
Delta Phi Delta_____
Scobell Hall 
McGill Hall .
Welch Hall ........
Iota Sigma Delta
(Continued From Pago One.) 
sions of a one point victory, 3'1 to 
30. Fleming, drawing tho foul that 
sent Lynch to the nonch, Sailed in 
two attempts from the foul lino to 
rescue his team. A short time later, 
apparently trying to redeem himself 
he. came back with two markers 
from the field, which when coupled 
with several points from the charity 
line gave the victory to Grove City 
•at 34 to 31.
Toots Amans, pTaying ills first 
game tills season, seemed to put new 
life into the Tartans, and as he will 
now be eligible for the rest of the 
season, great things are expected 
from him. Toots made but one 
basket, but his floor work left noth­
ing to lie desired. Throughout the 
entire contest he tried shot after 
shot, many of which missed the' loop 
'by only the narrowest of margins.
Bill Donohoe played perhaps one
H-PAIDITPAI-UPM G DoImUPoIM BTskAP BTll LATguA CPT-dU-gs
NATIONAL LEAGUE
Alpha Tau Omega
Beta Sigma Rho .................................................
Henderson ............................................................
Pi Kappa Alpha ......................................................... 1
Woodlawn ............................................................
Boss ........................................................................
Theta XI ...................................................................... 0
AMERICAN LEAGUE
Beta Theta Pi ......................................................
Kappa Epsilon .........................................................
Sigma Alpha Epsilon .............................................
Sigma Epsilon Phi ...................................................
Sigma Nu ..................................................................
Acacia ....................................................^.................
Delta Mu ..................................................................... 0
Kappa Sigma .....................................................
201.000
201.000
1' 1.500
11.500
11.500
11.500
02.000
02.000
201.000
201.000
201.000
11.500
11.500
02.000
02.000
02.000
FEDERAL LEAGUE
Delta Tau Delta ...................................................
Kappa Sigma Rho ...............................................
Scobell ....................................................................
McGill .....................................................................
Welch ......................................................................
Delta Chi Rho ........................................................... 0
Delta Phi Delta ................................................
Iota Sigma Delta.................................................
201.000
201.000
201.000
11.500
11.500
02.000
02.000
02.000
of tho bout gamos of his caroer. Ho 
was ovory whoro at once with his 
incredible Hpood, blocking trios for 
tho basket, malting sonsatlonal 
charges through' tho opponents’ do 
fonse, and flipping In goals from all 
angles. Wally Lynch also contrib­
uted much to tho good showing of 
the team. During tho last half ho 
rang up four fleld goals, and was giv­
ing promise of several more wlion 
he was forced to quit the floor be­
cause of his fourth personal foul.
An exceptional crowd was present 
in spite of the other campus attrac­
tions booked for the evening. .
The lineup:
Grove 'City—34. Carnegie—-31.
Fleming ................F.............. Donohue
Stevens .................F---------- Newman
Sweet .....................C.................. Conrad
Rose ......................G.................. Amans
Pillette .................G.................. Lynch
Grove City ..............19 15—34
Carnegje  ...................15 16—31
Substitutions—Grove City: Fay for 
Sweet. Carnegie: Beede for New­
man, Newman for Beede, Beede for 
Lynch. Field goals—Fleming 5, 
Stevens, Sweet 3, Rose 4, Donohue 
5, Newman, Conrad 3, Amans, Lynch 
4. Foul goals—Donohue, 1 out of 4; 
Lynch, 1 out of 2; Amans, 1 out of 
2; Stevens, 3 out of 3; Rose, 2 out 
of 4; Fleming, 3 out of 6. Referee— 
Beggs Snyder. Umpire—Al Slack.
! Time of quarters—10 minutes.
SUMMER WORK
Real Silk Hosiery Company offers 
a real paying proposition for the col­
lege student. Part timo territory now 
open. For particulars seo Miss Mer­
rill, Alumni Placement Bureau.
PATRONIZE OUR. ADVERTI8ERS
Tartan 
Ads Bring 
Results
For rates call or write the 
Advertising Manager
GENEVA PASSERS TO 
FACE PLAID TONIGHT
Carnegie Holds Ten Victories 
Over Geneva to Seven 
For Latter
Genova ana 'uarnegie Tech will 
meet in tho second basket ball game 
of this season’s home and home ser­
ies Tuesday evening, February 10, 
in tho now gymnasium.
Geneva has one of the best teams 
in the tri-state district, according to 
Coach Bon Lubic, and it was only 
by extending themselves to the ut­
most that the Tartan passers suc­
ceeded in nosing them out in the 
first game, winning by the small mar­
gin of three points. The game was 
played at Beaver Falls on January 
13. and ended 31 to 2S, with the big­
gest total on the proper side.
The Skibos first scheduled Geneva 
in 1907, in which season they won 
both games or a homo and homo 
series. To date tho teams have mot 
seventeen times, Carnegie winning 
ten, and Geneva seven of the games.
Most of the games have been very 
close, and it Is interesting to note 
that eight of these games have been 
decldocl by less than five points, four 
of them being by a more two-point 
margin.
Tho team from Beaver Falls has 
developed remarkably during the sea* 
son, and are at present mu'ch strong'- 
er than they wore when they permit­
ted a scant victory to bo wrested 
from them, while the loss of Captain 
‘Midge” Matter through ineligibility 
is a blow to Bon Lublc’s basket 
tossors. However, "Toots” Amans, 
ono of tho shiftiest players who over 
passed a ball, is back again and eli­
gible to play.
It Is thought likely that, owing to 
tho latenesB of I ho Soason, no regu- 
lad captain will bo oloctod, but that 
an acting caiptain will bo picked for 
each gamo.
Games Which Have Become History.
G ono va.Carnoglo.
1007—15 .................. -11
11 .................. 2*1
1911—32 .................. 27
27 .................. 25
I!) .................. r.i
.......... 30
25 ........28
22 ..................... 30
1022—84 ..................... 38
58 ..................... -II
1023—30 ...................... 25
23 ..................... 27
102*1—30 ..................... 25
1025—2& ...................... 31
Total
gamos won. 7.....................10
Stowod guy- -(over phono) Hollo, 
Anflwior—Hello, Hollo.
Slow—Garnh, how thin darn thing 
ochóos.
TUXEDO AND FULL DRES8 
SUITS TO HIRE 
For All Occasions.
All new nnd up to date.
ED SCHWERIN 
MEN TAILOR 
C06 Stato Theater Building 
335 Fifth Avenue, Pltsburgh, Pa.
WHO’S WHO
In Basketball
COACH JOHN IRWIN
Every team has at its head a man 
who is responsible for their organi­
zation. Ills knowledge of the game 
is instilled info the players, and due 
to his teachings and the ability of 
tho players themselves, a team re­
sults. At the helm of the Plebo 
team is such a man.
John Irwin Is a Pittsburgher. He 
graduated from Allegheny High 
School in 1913. For the next four 
yoars he worked and played at Char­
leroi in the West Penn League. In 
tho fall of 1916 he entered Pitt but 
was not able to complete his course 
due to the World War. He was in 
the service two and a half years, 
nineteen months of which was spout 
on the other side. Since liis dis­
charge he has been attending sum- 
ner school at the University of Wis­
consin and the University of Mich­
igan in an effort to completo his 
course in physical education. He was 
athletic director of Gladstone High 
In Hazelwood, and later he accepted 
tho same position at Latimer High. 
1-Ie was there for three years and 
in that time won the basket ball 
championship twice. He also coacli- 
od the Oakland Y. M. C. A.
For tho last two yoars Irwin has 
coached our Plebes. His work has 
been of high quality and is appre­
ciated. He has been working under 
severe handicaps duo to the fact 
that, every time he gets a good com­
bination working some unavoidable 
conditions such as sickness or inoli- 
gibility crop up and ho is forced to 
change his lineup. Sometime soon 
ho will got a. group who will not be 
bothorod by Ineligibility or sickness, 
and this group lie will mould Into 
a combination that will be romem- 
bored tor a long tlmo to come at 
Carnoglo. Though John Irwin is a 
Pitt Man duo to choice of school he 
Is, however, at present an adopted 
son of Carnoglo, and as such ho is 
doing himself proud.
ptmtmmtimuntmmiitnntinmiimiii 
THE
! HOTEL SCHENLEY
• Announces J series of eight Sat- 
j urday Evening Supper Dances 
: in the Rose Room at 9 o'clock.
COVER CHARGE $1.25
Celebrated Meyer Davea 
Orchestra.
Call Schenley 0285 
for Table Reservations.
imjmmnmnjmmmmmmamtnmro
after every meal
Cleanses month and 
teeth and aids digestion.
Relieves that over­
eaten feeling and acid 
mouth.
Its 1-a-s-t-I-n-g flavor 
satisfies the craving for sweets.
Wrlgley's Is double 
value in the ItMeflt and »rovidpleasure It provides. 
Scaled in ita Parity
^0?
Package.
PLEBES HAVE TWO HARD 
CONTESTS THIS WEEK
Tonight: the strong indrnna Normal 
toam will Invade our territory to try 
and doioat our Plobea. Indiana has 
always had a good toam and from re­
ports, this year is no oxooptlon. 'They 
will como down with tho host lineup 
that tho school can boast, of. There 
will not bo any doubt as to their 
Intentions from tho. first whistle until 
tho laiil,. II! 1:1)0 Plobos play tho brand 
of ball that they showed thomsolvoM 
capable of against California Normal, 
thoro Is no doubt but that they will 
send a disappointed team back to In­
diana.
On Friday ovonlng of I:13M week tho 
i’lobofi will have another chance at 
the Pitt Froshmen who so decisively 
snowed them under In the tilt at 
Troos Gym at the tlmo of their last 
meeting. With the sting of defeat 
still frosh In fcholr minds, and the will 
to dean the slate, by turning tho 
tablos, in their heart's a different 
team will talco tho floor. Not differ­
ent men. but men with a. definite pur­
pose, a purpose that will noji bo de­
nied. Tho Pitt Plebes are good, but 
not so good that they cannot suffer 
defeat. Go to it Carnoglo Plebes and 
show them that their first victory was 
a mistake that needs erasing. You 
can do It. You will do It,
Remember—tonight the Plebes play 
tho preliminary to tho Genova gamo, 
and on Friday, February 13, they 
play the preliminary to tho return 
game with Pitt. Come early and got 
a seat for the, big games. More than 
that, come early, and give the Plebes 
your support. Tlioy neod it as much 
as the varsity. They represent our 
school just as much as our varsity 
does. They are In fact our future 
varsity. Come and give them your 
support' and keep them moving. Let’s 
go!! The time is 7:00 o’clock.
Police: “Why are you parking?” 
Callow youth: "There’s a miss in 
the car.”
SEE MARTIN
FOR GOOD THINGS TO EAT 
CORNER FORBES AND CRAIG
M. PASQUINELLI
UNPARALLELED
(poks H-dusUvAEouIs 
*> NULOPN
SCHENLY L-Y PAICIDT PUMGd-CGH
Large choice of 
itineraries; tours 
by leading Liners 
every few days 
during season
Prof.Hydee
four xwfo all expense toiir.vifiling Paris, 
Versailles Brussels, Antwerp, Lo>ulon,etc.
Our Reputation is Your Guarantee!
THOS.COOK& SON
PHILADELPHIA
r ' 130 South 15th Street r
“PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS"

---------------------------------------------------

9.THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1925
ALUMNI PAGE
NIGHT SCHOOL GRAD 
DIES AT WILSON, PA.
Suffering From Infection of 
the Heart McCollum 
Passes This Life
Caleb Addison McCollum, B. S. In 
M. E., 19X0, clilof englnoer o£ the 
Clalrton By-Product Coke Work9 of 
the Carnegie Steel Co., cialrton, Pa,, 
died at his liome In WJlHon, Pa.; De­
cember 24, irom heart Infection.
Mr. McCollum was born December 
29, 1884, near Washington, Pa. He 
graduated from Verona High School, 
and tho Washington and Jefferson 
Academy. Wblle In tho employ of 
the Carnegie Stool TeBling Depart­
ment, HomeBtead, Pa„ he entered
[ CLAN NEWS j
TO FORM A NEW CLAN
With the discovery that there are 
at present Bomo fifteen or twenty Car­
negie alumul and alumnae living 
around Gary, Elkhart and South Bend, 
a movement Js under way to organize 
a Carnegie Clan of Northern Indiana. 
Tho Unit meeting 0L Bcheduled for 
Friday, February 26, at 8 p. m., at the 
South Bend Y. M. C. A. and from pres- 
ent IndlcatlouB a real, llve-wlre or­
ganisation 0L In tho malting. With 
the added Incentive of having tho Car- 
neglo-Notro Dame game at South 
Bend next fall to look towardB, every­
one approached concerning tho prop­
osition is giving 100 per cent co-opera­
tion In the formation of tho clan.
Any Carnegie booBtor living In 
Northern Indiana or Southern Michi­
gan should lino up with tho organlza
REUNION LUNCHEON TO BE 
HELD AT CARNEGIE INN
BY M. M. C. C. GRADUATES
All claBBeB of the Margaret Morri- 
aon Carnegie Collego are planning a 
reunion luncheon to be held in the 
Carnegie Inn on Saturday afternoon, 
February 14.
This luncheon 0L something out of 
the ordinary for tho Margaret Morri­
son graduates. Special entertainment 
is planned and a general good time for 
all Is promised.
All graduates in the Pittsburgh sec­
tion are invited to attend. Don't for­
got tho date and hour, Saturday, Feb­
ruary 14, at 1:30 p. m.
N. Y. EXCHANGE OFFERS 
SERVICE TO INVESTORS
night school at Carnegie Tech and
graduated from the Mocliuriicd iSngl-1 ZlshdüBeTud’"ä ÄriTong-
jioor Department in 1010. II« became d al.ranglng ti„, dou.ll» ot tlio 
lliu cliloC engineer or tho Clulrlon Hy-; (irB^ meQt|0g until a permanent organ- 
Product Colt': WorltH and bold that | ¡/;Luün cim |JÜ effocted. Got ln touch 
poHltlon until TM death. , wlth ülthol. or thom ,lt tho y. M. a.
During bl» yoar» oC employment at | A^ Houth or w)tll A.
tho Carnegje Stool Co., he made a|D Jen]lori 201 South Main »troot, 
comploto Investigation of the bent | Klklmrt, Iaiten8 or R. A. Gurbott, 
balance of tho open hoartU fürnapo Gary, Ind.
and was connected with the median-1 ‘ ____________
ical work of bl» department. i TODC IDRU HN“1K—V1HN“K
Mr. McCollum is the second of the 
1910 night class of mechanical engl-1
noera that has died recently. George | A couple more goals for tho glory 
Smith, who was in tho employ of tho j p? Carnegie! Philadelphia Clan had 
Carnegie Steel, preceded him by
few months.
CARNEGIE PLEASED
BY HINES BROTHERS
(Contlnuod From Pago One.)
Subdued llghts will bo tho lcoynote 
of tho docoratlon«, tliat will make thè 
William Pomi ballroom a place of 
mystlc dreams and fantasies. Many 
beautiful color schomes liave been 
plannod tliat will refioct tho llghts 
and throw a soft glow oC color in tho 
pnths of tho morry dancors. Evory- 
thing will harmonl/,o, and forni a com­
plete pieturo of groat beauty.
The prollmlnary tlclcots are now 011 
salo at five dollars, and all Junior 
girla must pay thls foo whether they 
go or not, Tho gonoral concoiiBUB of 
opinion Ib that ovoryono is golng to 
tho Prom and havo thè timo of tlielr 
Uvea. It 0L urgent that tiokets he 
purchased at once In ordor to facili* 
tatò tho worlc of tho commltt'oo, who 
have a big job on their liaiids.
All .iunior, Senior, and Allumine 
girl« aro gettili# tho forvor or tho 
promonwlo of Ilio cIiihh of 192(1, Won- 
dorful favorii, splondid docoratlons, 
William Pomi biillrooni, Hlnes Broth­
ers' OrchoHtrii, all pollili to a porfoct 
ovonlng on, Frlduy, I.I10 fcwenty-sev* 
onth of Fobninry.
BAUER DEVELOPS 
NOVEL PROCESS
| FIELDS COVERED BY THE
COURSES AT CARNEGIE
TO BE REVIEWED SOON
A New Method For Produc­
ing Cyanides Developed 
By ’12 Graduate
Mr. E. H. II. Simmons, president of 
tho Now York Stock Exchange, made 
tho following statement yesterday:
In the letter which I sent to all 
members, branch office managers and 
correspondents of the New York Stock 
Exchange on November 15th, 1924, I 
said that there would bo created in the 
New York Stock Exchange a special 
department which would act as a 
clearing house for information as to 
attempted frauds through worthless 
securities,' and to ¦which suspicious 
eases might be referred by the public, 
for investigation and action.
This special department lias been 
created and is now functioning fully. 
Already several hundred cases from 
various parts of the country have 
been submitted and examined. The 
most effective co-operation has been 
received from tho securities commis­
sioners of tho states, law enforcing 
olficials, tho better business bureaus 
and commercial and financial organ­
izations.
The services of this bureau of the 
Now York Stock Exchange are avail-
their first business mooting for this 
year. For tho benefit of those who 
were not at tho Art Alliunce last Sat­
urday evening, January 31, wo will 
tell tho world what wo started and 
that we are going to cary our plans 
through or know tho reason why,
We enjoyed a very fine dinner, all 
arranged by our dear clans-woman,
P“LL Dorothy Stelnmaeher, who by 
the way, worked very hard writing • jxblo, without cost, to any person in 
J’"“........" 11 ' tho United States. The investor, who
FRATERNITY HOUSE 
FOR RENT
Largo house, 12 rooms, 3 
ha 1,1m, on a largo loi, exception­
ally well local,od al, 3340 Dawson 
street, corner of VVIlmot,. In 
just at end of tho Wllmot streot 
bridge ontranoo to Schonloy 
I’ark, on tho Atwood street car 
lino, and within ton minutos’ 
walk of the CJarnoglo instituto 
of Technology. Will louiio tho 
house for two yours.
OAKLAND REAL ESTATE CO.
3717 Forbon Stroot 
Sohonloy 20015
the invitations with that artistic 
touch; yea and they had Carnegie 
colors which the poBt offico mistook 
for a new fad in cross word puzzles. 
Tho invitation was not in any way 
cross-worded, but contained nows of 
interest.
That basketball game with Drexel 
Institute, to be playod hero in their 
basketball cage, on the twiontieth of 
Fobruary, at eight p. m., is going to 
be some game. Two-hundred tickets 
were distributed among Dpata present 
and if those absent want tliolr tickets, 
don’t be backward and stay away, 
just pack tho family in tho convey­
ance and bo there. How much? 
Only fifty cents. Say, Phllydan, let’s 
all got out for that pep mooting at 
tho Hotol Normandlo at Thirty-sixth 
(30) and Chostnut street, at six p. 
m., in the Roso Room, The basket­
ball team, is to be our guests (they 
are on training idiot). Bo there to 
start thom out for a big victory. Clot 
there and soo Carnoglo boat thom. 
Como on Carnoglo! Lot’s go.
Phllydan 1ms n surprise for Car­
negie and tho world, It’s to happen 
around Easier, A little bird chirped
The ICUtles are Coming, Hurrah
Inrrah!” Yos, tho Kilties oxpeol; to 
go to other clan centers in tho Mast, 
hut wait till thoy soo that Phllydan. 
Oh I Boy I Null Said.
| Oakland Savings &-I- Trust Co. I
X X
?j* Mciïibor Foderai Rcaorvo
System. *j>
Y Capital..........................»300,000.00 ;J;
Ç Surplus.........................$300,000.00
Y Deposits, Ovor - - - 55,000,000.00 Yt
¿ SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES
CEUDNNEC!
We Specialize In 
STUDENTS’
DRAWING-
OUTFITS
at special prices. 
Also in 
Cameras, Films, Etc.
Developing and 
Printing.
(A*'k for our free 
calendar.)
B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
OPTICIANS 
Sclienley Apartments 
4010 FIFTH AVENUE
has been swindled or who is investi­
gating either the person making an 
offer of securities or the securities so 
offered, can invoke the aid of the 
nearest better business bureau or se­
curities commission. If that is not 
convenient the New York Stock Ex­
change bureau will be glad to give 
prompt attention to any recieusts for 
Information or advice that may come 
to It, Address the Secretary, Commit- 
too on Quotations and Commissions, 
New York Stock Exchange.
A graduate of the chemical depart­
ment has located In California where, 
In the employ of the Air Reduction 
Company, he has developed a process 
for the manufacture of cyanides.
Coming froii} Cincinnati, Ohio, 
George Carl Bauer entered Carnegie 
in the fall of 1908. 1-Ie registered in 
an applied! science course and gradu­
ated with the claBB of 1912 with a 
Bachelor of Science degree.
After graduation, Mr. Bauer enter­
ed the employ of the Southern Cotton 
Oil Company at Elizabeth, New Jer­
sey , While with them he was a mem­
ber of their technical staff.
Later Bauer was employed by the 
Air Reduction Company and sent to 
the Pacific coast to find some valua­
ble use for one of their by-products; 
namely, nitrogen. After exhaustive 
study and considerable research work, 
Mr. Bauer developed a process where­
by cyanides and hydro-cyanides could 
be manufactured much more cheaply.
The peculiar part of the develop­
ment was that after all, the nitrogen 
which was the by-product to be dis­
posed of, was more expensive to bring 
from the Air Reduction factories than 
it was to obtain it from the plants 
where the cyanides were manufactur­
ed. However, the firm is fast build­
ing a lucrative business in the manu­
facture of these two products.
The hydro-cyanic acid is used on 
the orange trees as an Insecticide. 
Because of its ease of application and 
effectiveness, its use is rapidly in­
creasing. To apply it a tent is spread 
over the tree and then the gas is re­
leased under It and allowed to remain 
for some time. Befpre the covering 
can be removed, it is necessary for 
the tent flaps to be raised and the gas 
allowed to escape. The cyanide is 
used in the extraction of gold.
Following the precedent as set 
last year, a review of the fields of 
I the Industrial and Engineering World 
covered by the courses at Carnegie 
will be run on this page beginning 
next week.
It is believed that this is a good 
method of explaining to those who 
are hunting a college, the courses at 
Carnegie, and will assist alumni who 
are interested in sending high school 
graduates to Carnegie,
DR. BAKER ADDRESSES 
CLUB AT JOHNSTOWN
WESTERN STUDENTS ELECT
NEW OFFICERS FOR YEAR
It is Interesting to note that the 
Hooflleni nro planning to organize a 
Ohm In Northern Indiana. By this 
timo Carnoglo should ho protty woll 
known around that section and a 
boosting dan In all that la needed to 
lnoroaiio tho school's popularity, es­
pecially since our team makes a trip 
to South Bond next son non and can bo 
soon In action.
Considerable interest Is being 
shown by tho alumni in St. Louis ovor 
tho scheduled ganio with tho Univer­
sity of St. Louis. Ono of tho l’ormor 
Tartan; mon has volunteered to cover 
the game.
I stole a kiss the other night,
My conscience hurts alack?
I think I’ll go around tonight,
And put the blame thing back.
Stop at Hage Beauty Shoppe 
Expert Work Quick Servlec 
THREE OPERATORS 
Ladies’ and Gentlemen's 
Manicuring a Specialty.
418 CRAIG STREET 
Schenley 6196-R
^Jhe largest selling 
quality pencil 
' i the world
Superlative in quality, 
the world-famousVENUS Y PENCILS
give best service and 
longest wear.
,1’Iuln tuviln, per dot. $1.00 
Ivubbor oivil«, par dor. 1.20 
P oYf all ./.-.Iter* 
Amerlcnn Lend Pencil Co. 
220 With Avo., N.Y.
(Continued From. Page One.)
E. R. Jones, treasurer, Wichita, Ivan.
Executive Council.
W. A. Bryant, Detroit, Midi.
G. W. Brahmst, Duluth, Minn.
I), (i. Dalton, OHkosh, Wis.
M. F. Snothon, Evansville, Ind.
Y. W. Ridgeway, Omaha, Nob.
H. S. Poloslo, Hollywood, Cal.
Miss Elizabeth McClurg, Oregon, 
Miss G. U. Peterson, Claremont, Cal.
Faculty Members.
Prof, C. W. Swanson.
Prof, J. L. Shoan.
Prof. C, D. Clroonhood.
'PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS"
SAMUEL McCLURE SPEAKS
TODAY AT GEN. ASSEMBLY
[ TELESCOPE
(Continued From, Page One.) 
the University of Michigan, says of 
the lecturer: “Mr. McClure spoke
throughout in a pleasant conversa­
tional tone, and his inspiring lecture 
was enlivened by a constant narra­
tion of personal anecdotes and inci­
dents of Interest. To almost every­
thing that ho said' lie gave a touch 
of original humor, which eliminated 
all tedious formality and kept tho 
close attention of the audience dur­
ing the entire evening.”
Many othor newspapers, of good 
standing throughout the country, 
have commented just ns favorably on 
Mr. McClure's lectures. Ho brings a 
mosBage of vital intorest to ovory citi­
zen of tho nation, and should receive 
a more hearty greotlng from the stu- 
donts of Carnoglo than has been 
awarded any of our rocont assembly 
speakers.
In a speech at the noon luncheon 
of the Lions Club of Johnstown on 
the seventh floor of the Fort Stanwlx 
last Friday, Dr. Baker, stressed the 
responsibilities and aims of eduac- 
tional institutions in inculcating 
greater sense of responsibility among 
the young men and women of today.
He declared that there was too 
much of the "let George do it” in 
the modern youth, and that he dodged 
to a certain degree responsibilities, 
that they should shoulder.
Referring to the schools, Dr. Baker 
stated that many of the men and wo­
men going to college do not desire 
to take the more difficult courses, as 
they do not want to apply themselves 
too much, allowing the responsibility 
to fall upon others.
'The chief difficulty in the fresh­
man year at school is the inability*of 
the ‘freshie’ to know how to study. 
Nine out of 10 failures are attribut­
ed to the fact that the boy has not 
learned how to study—to develop a 
sense of responsibility. They pore 
over books but do not know how to 
get the good out of them. In their 
secondary schools they do not apply 
themselves, with the result that when 
they enter college, it is beyond their 
depth,” the executive said.
In the face of an era of prosperity 
as forecasted by leaders throughout 
the country, more than ever the peo­
ple are giving thoughts to education, 
Dr. Baker averred, in pointing out 
tho great growth of the schools in 
the past. Schools and colleges in 
the country are increasing yearly, 
and the number knocking at the doors 
of the institutions for admittance this 
year is rapidly growing.
Education will bring about a more 
.intelligent public opinion, a higher 
degree of intelligence. It is intended 
to raise the level of our brain power 
and great progress is being made 
along this line, the speaker stated.
The speaker was introduced by 
John Fritz, a member of the Carnegie 
Alumni Clan of Johnstown, who with 
Dr. Samuel J. Slawson arranged for 
today’s program.
It was announced by President Em- 
lyn H. Evans that the Carnegie “Kil­
ties” Band would appear in Johns­
town for a concert in April. The 
Committee on Arrangements for the 
affair consists of Chester Shlffler, 
Chairman; John Fritz, William 
Hughes and J. B. Salinger.
What is wrong with the Clans?
This question is repeated so often 
that the writer has begun to wonder 
just what the trouble is. Are the 
Clans inactive or are they just in a 
dormant state. If we were to judge 
them by the news we receive from 
them we would be inclined to be­
lieve they were neither dormant nor 
Inactive, but dead.
Come on Clans let’s hear from you! 
Each Clan lias a purpose to fulfill or 
it wouldn’t have been organized. To 
fulfill that purpose you certainly are 
having some activities. Write in an 
account of them to the Tartan. Every 
Clan should .be accounted for at 
least twice each month in the news 
column. Give us the facts of the af­
fair either past or contemplated, if 
you don’t have time to write up the 
story, and we will dress it up and 
publish it. Don’t expect your secre­
tary to do it all. I-Ielp him out and 
offer to do it yourself.
Of all the big parties, dances, and 
other festive affairs held during the 
holidays only three or four were re­
ported to the paper. The Tartan can­
not come to you full of interesting 
news if you don’t send any in.
As you probably know, the aim of 
the Tartan is to bring the student 
body, faculty, and the graduates clos­
er together and to serve as a medium 
of communication between these 
bodies. To do this effectively the 
paper must contain news which is of 
interest to all. To have a paper with 
news that Is interesting to all, we 
must have articles concerning all 
three. The campus affairs are fairly 
eifsy to write up because they are 
here and the reporters can get all the 
necessary dope. The faculty news is 
obtained directly 01* through the fac­
ulty bulletin but to get Alumni news 
we must depend upon the Alumni. 
Chief of this news is the activities 
of the various Clans. Writing up 
your own Clan will not only build up 
your own organization but it will 
build up the Glory of Carnegie.
12 WEEKS PLUMBING 
CONFERENCE STARTS
Carnegie and Pitt Co-operate 
With Trade Extension Bu­
reau to Help Instructors
CIoss WoId PuzzlA No. 8
By ELLENOR TALLMADGE*
B
i34
’i
o|
13...
i
,lö
IS19
ae83
HORNER SCORES AS POET IN
GAY MUSICAL FANTASY
ANNUAL REPORT IS SUB­
MITTED BY PRESIDENT
3940
“PATRONIZE~^^R ADVERTISERS”
Woodlawn Pharmacy
5200 Forbes Street, Cor. Woodlawn 
Nearest Drug Store to Tech School
Complete Up-to-Date Drug Store
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Horizontal.
1—Gentleman with crimson pro­
boscis.
5—S. P. I. A.
9—Tho process of getting tead up.
11—A skin.
13—Heroine that is.
15—Also.
1G—Our country reversed.
17—1 go (Latin).
18—Eastern potentate,
20—An island (South Sous).
22—A kind of soup.
21 Tho simplest form of life.
25—Southern Yucatan (Abr.).
2G-t-To cast out.
28—Sun god.
29—A youngster.
30—A ministerial degree.
32—Maggie Murphy trait.
18-1—My hero.
86—Scene of Todleban’s activities.
3S—Narrate.
•11—A famous French crook.
•12—Roumanian vagabond.
43—Short for Emma.
44—D. T. S.
-11»—Egg of an insect.
47—That is.
45—The excess over net.
49—Sanguinary material.
51—An unusual attribute.
52—Close.
Vertical.
2—Past of eat, colloquial.
3—A body decoration.
4—To elevate.
5—An East Indian grain.
G—A Greek mythological character.
7—A preposition.
8—Fifth in the electrometer series.
10—This is a knockout, a la H. ' 
Witmor.
11—Comptroller of the family treas­
ury.
12—Following coca.
14—Oh, grandmam, what big------you
have!
17—Napoleon’s hangout.
19—A name (Turkish).
21—Ovor (Contraction).
23—Ovor and above.
24—To change.
30—A trap 5
31—Pickpocket.
32—Locus of a point eqquidistant. 
from tho circumference of a circle.
33—Host of men. -
34—Physiognomy (slang).
35—Although (Latin).
3G—Musical character.
37—A Icing of fabulous wealth.
39—c. g. s. unit of capacity.
40—Points of perception.
45—Latin reflexive.
4G—No good (Abr.).
4S—Metal found only in combined 
form.
50—Each (Abr.).
(Continued From Pago One.) • 
band, who now discover the penalty 
that must be paid ”If you aro sinful." 
Repentance and love, nowever, bring 
relief, and everyone is happy.
The emotional interest is furnished 
by tho romance of Dhinalla tho poet, 
and Jolabi; by the re-unlon of the 
Calif and his dream girl, and by the 
more amusing affair between Ala 
Bam and tho naughty Sinjala.
Durbin Horner in the role of Dhi­
nalla, was splendid. He played the 
broken-hearted, freedom-seeking poet 
with exactly the right admixture of 
naivete and world-weariness. His 
singing of “Jolabi” was peculiarly ap­
pealing through the quality of tender 
pathos which he was able to put into 
his expression of that very beautiful 
lyric.
Rivalling Horner in the enthusiasm 
of their reception, were the two 
pages, small colored boj'S, Elmer and 
Henry Taylor. Elmer’s dancing 
brought down the house. Nothing 
like his skating-sliding dance step 
had ever been seen in the Art School. 
The audience went wild, and would 
not be satisfied.
The costumes for the. production 
were particularly attractive and be­
coming to their wearers. They were 
designed and made by Virginia Wal­
lace, John Gilbert, Janet Mollis, Eliz­
abeth Sowersby and their assistants.
The decoration of the halls was 
accomplished this year without the 
usual exhausting Friday“ night “ 
Charette”. For this achievement 
great deal of credit is due those 
whose names have not appeared on 
the lists of any committees, but who 
for, weeks, worked willingly, often 
until late at night, accomplishing 
what should have been done by de­
linquent committeemen. Some of 
those whose efforts are especially 
commendable are: M. R. Busier, Al. 
Wingold, H. Fink, Jim Palumbo, Pat 
Hayden, Catherine McGraw and oth­
er night students, and E. A. Thomson.
The Post Ball Dnnco was held Sat­
urday night, from 9:00 till 12:00. The 
music and decorations were the samo 
ns those of the night before, and 
though the absence of costumes made 
the occasion much less brilliant than 
the Arabian ball, about three hundred 
couples took advantage of the oppor­
tunity to enjoy ono evening of plea­
sure In a glamorous Eastern environ­
ment.
(Continued From Page One.) 
man who disregards the attractions 
of social and athletic life and who de­
votes himself fully to his scholastic 
work who often does not receive the 
recognition that he deserves. By giv­
ing some special distinction to these 
men the college can make clear that 
the chief reason for the existence of 
an educational institution is to pro­
mote sound learning. It ought to be­
stow its special honors upon those 
who strive to assist the college to 
realize this ideal.”
The relations of the Institute of 
Technology with the University of 
Pittsburgh havo grown closer, during 
the year. At the suggestion of the 
President of the Carnegie Corpora­
tion, a committee was appointed to 
study, not only in what ways further co-, 
operation between the two institu­
tions could be brought about, but also 
the educational needs of the com­
munity at large. The report, which 
was prepared by this committee, was 
presented to the Carnegie Corpora­
tion and was accepted as showing 
that the officers of the University of 
Pittsburgh and the Carnegie Insti­
tute of Technology appreciated the 
necessity of reducing the amount of 
duplication of instruction in the two 
institutions and were avoiding all 
ideas of competition.
It is reported that the enrollment 
for 1923-24 was 5,S77, this number 
comprising students from forty-four 
states, Alaska, and twenty-four for­
eign countries. Attempts have also 
been,made'-£o securo better prepared 
students by visits to high schools and 
j by correspondence with high school 
principals.
A two-week’s conference for train­
ing plumbing instructors from alt 
parts of the country will be held in 
Pittsburgh from February 16 to 29, 
in cooperation with the University 
of Pittsburgh, Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, and the National Trade 
Extension Bureau of the Plumbing 
and Heating Industries.
The plan behind the conference, 
according to an anouncement is to 
give to journeymen and master plum­
bers a knowledge of the principles of 
teaching and learning. The instruc­
tion is especially planned for those 
engaged in the plumbing trade, and 
the problems are largely those which 
have to be solved in the actual oper- 
ation of plumbing schools.
The meetings will be held at both 
Pitt and Carnegie Tech, through the 
cooperation of the Department of Vo­
cational Education of the University 
of Pittsburgh, the Department of 
Heating, Ventilating, and Sanitation 
of the Carnegie Institute of'Technol­
ogy, and the National Trade Exten­
sion Bureau. The character of the- 
instrution will be such as can be un­
derstood by anyone who has had five 
or more years’ experience as a jour­
neyman plumber.
Through tho efforts of the National 
Tfade Extension Bureau, which is 
fostering the conference, a large at­
tendance is expected from the vari­
ous plumbing and heating associations 
throughout the country.
Tuition in the course is to be free; 
the only charge, a small registration 
fee to cover incidentals, including 
the issuing of suitable certificates of 
attainment to those who satisfac­
torily complete the course. The cost 
of instruction is to be borne by the 
National Trade Extension Bureau and 
by the State and Federal Govern­
ments under the provisions of the 
Smith-Huglies Act.
The faculty for the course will con­
sist of representatives of the Nation-, 
al Trade Extension Bureau, the Uni­
versity of Pittsburgh, and Carnegie 
Institute of Technology. These will 
include Professor Robert B. Leighou, 
head of the Department of Industrial 
Science, and Professor Samuel E. 
Dibble, head of the Department of 
Heating, Ventilating, and Sanitation,'“ 
of Carnegie Institute of Technology; 
Professor Gerald D. Whitney, of the 
Department of Vocational Education, 
University of Pittsburgh; E. L. Bow­
man, Educational Director, and A. W. 
Wolfgang, Apprenticeship Field Re­
presentative, of tho National Trade 
Extension Bureau. Dr. C. B. Connel- 
ley, Director of Industrial Relations 
at Carnegie Tech, has been assisting 
tho officers of the Extension Bureau 
in completing the program for the 
conference.
Notice Alumnae
The Women’s Junior Prom Commit­
tee has had numerous inquiries from 
alumnae in regard to the possibility 
of their attending this year’s prom. 
The committee has decided that 
alumnao will be permitted to attend 
the prom if they are willing to pay 
the full price of the ticket, which is 
$12.00.
All reservations which are accom­
panied by a check for $12.00 and sent 
in to Mary Hill, 5100 Forbes street, 
before Saturday, February 14, will be 
accepted and the tickets mailed at 
once.
The committee welcomes the 
alumnae.
VOTES FOR NITE SCHOOL
COUNCIL SLOW ARRIVING
(Continued From Page One.) 
$1.00 is charged every night student, 
and the night students seem opposed 
to this compulsory charge or tax 
which would be used for their benefit.
''Towering Masses’
The Garment Center Buildings 
New York City 
WALTER M. MASON. Architcct 
Drawn by Hugh Ferriss
TLTERE the new architecture expresses itself in great vig- 
orous masses which climb upward into the sky with a 
pyramidal profile—gigantic]lrregular, arresting. An earlier, 
conventional building on the near corneris overshadowed, 
engulfed in towering masses of the newer building which 
are prophetic of an architecture of the future which is 
vividly stimulating to the imagination.
Certainly modern invention—modern engineering skill 
and organization, will prove more than equal to the de­
mands of the architecture of the future.
OTISELEVATOR COMPANY
Offices in all Principal Cides of the World
