Thursday, Friday, Saturday 
Spring Carnival.
No Classes 
Friday and Saturday.
VOL. XXVI, No. 30.TUESDAY, MAY 17, 1932.CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.
Two Orchestras Will Play 
For Coronation Ball
CORONATION AT 10:00Parade To Feature 
Heyday Program
Students Present Original 
Musical Review
"TAR AND FEATHERS"Honoraries Wili 
Make Calls
Queen and Her Court
ADELAIDE McCLOSKEY
Popular and well-known orches­
tras have been secured to furnish 
music for the Coronation Ball on 
Thursdaj'- night and the Costume 
Ball on Friday night. At the Cor­
onation Ball both Jack Bruce, who 
played at the Inter-Sorority For­
mal, and Marshall Field, who 
broadcasts over the radio and is 
coming from Cleveland, will play. 
Music at the Costume Ball will be 
presented by Marshall Field and 
by Freddie Cook with his Bruns­
wick Recording Orchestra from 
Pittsburgh.
As the opening dance of Spring 
Carnival, the Coronation Ball will 
be held from 9 to 1 o’clock in 
both Thistle Hall and the Gymna­
sium. The capital event of the 
evening is the coronation of Mary 
McKeon as campus queen. It will 
take place in the Gymnasium at 
10 o’clock.
Heydey, a new feature of the 
year’s Carnival, will be closed by 
the Costume. Ball on Friday eve­
ning in Thistle Hall and the Gym­
nasium from 9 to 1 o’clock. Simple, 
(Continued on Page Three)
"Tar and Feathers,” the musical 
review to be presented Saturday 
night, May 21, as a grand finale 
to Carnival Week by “The Bac­
chanalians,” will determine whether 
or not the production will become 
an annual presentation of this new 
campus organization. The revue, 
which has been written, composed, 
and managed by students of the 
Departments of Drama, Music, and 
Painting and Decorating, is con­
structed in the manner of a soph­
isticated revue. Humorous and 
satiric dances, sketches and take­
offs will be accompanied b}r orig­
inal lyrics featuring Jerry Mc- 
Gcorge’s orchestra. The program 
will consist of approximately ten 
dance numbers, ten humorous 
sketches, and nine or ten song 
numbers. A girls' chorus, for 
which several dances have been 
composed, will play an important 
part in the production, in which 
more than thirty students will ap­
pear.
Active in the execution of “Tar 
and, FcaUidi:s’.' are Franklin Heller, 
business manager; Emanuel Break­
stone, avIio , is managing the sing­
ing; William Debolt, G. W. Young­
ling, and Edward Kelly, who have 
arranged the njusic; William Bales, 
director of dancing; Lavina Mer­
rick, in - charge of properties; Her­
man Livenght and William Beal, 
staging; 'William HaViland, who de­
signed a n'ovel front cuVtain; Wil­
liam1 Benfse, John Dawson, John 
Sollcrs, and James' Lindsay, who 
manage' the technical end of the 
production; Maxine Scliaucr, cos­
tume designer, and! ..Mias , Kitcat, 
teacher of eiirythmics, who has 
helped to stage an interpretive 
dance,
Original sketches have been con­
tributed by David Cornman, George 
McCalmon, William Ross, Margery 
Lewine, Mr. Beal, and Mr. Live- 
right. Linn Thompson, Mr. Young­
ling, Richard Whetstone, Mr. Corn- 
man, Mr. Beal, McClelland Shinn, 
and Mr. Livcright have written 
musical numbers and the Depart­
ment of Painting and Decorating 
has contributed several paintings.
“The Bacchanalians” has not yet 
been granted a charter. Member­
ship is not confined to any par­
ticular department. Anyone inter­
ested in the idea may apply al­
though membership is competitive.
The Qualifications Exercises will 
be held this Saturday afternoon 
from 2 to 4 o’clock in the Sylvan 
Theater on the grounds of the 
College of Fine Arts. Seventeen 
organizations, some of which have 
already made their selections pub­
lic, will call their new members to 
the stage of the outdoor theater 
where they will be officially pledg­
ed. The chief purpose of these 
exercises is to introduce to the 
student body the men and women 
who have been honored by calls. 
The stage will be equipped with a 
microphone and amplifiers in order 
that the calls and announcements 
may be clearly heard. In case of 
rain the exercises will be held in 
the Gymnasium.
A new part of the program will 
be the installation of the entire 
Student Council and the introduc­
tion of the newly-elected class 
presidents. In former years, the 
president of the Student Council 
was the only member to be intro­
duced at these exercises, The class 
presidents will be introduced by 
the senate presidents of their re­
spective schools. The cups ¦ giy.en'i 
to the winners of the sweepstakes 
events will be presented by the 
Campus Queen.
Following is V list of the honor,- 
aries which will make calls at the 
Qualification Day exercises: Alpha 
Chi Alpha, Alpha Rho ‘Chi, Alpha 
Tan, Chi Sigma Delta, Cwons, 
Delta , Skull, Druids, Dragon, Phi 
Mu Alpha, Mortar Board, Pi Al­
pha Delta, Pi Delta Epsilon, Scalp 
and Blade, Scarab, Sigma Alpha 
Iota, Tati Beta Pi, Tau Sigma 
Delta, and Theta Tau,
Heyday, this year’s additional 
feature of the Spring Carnival, is 
scheduled to hold the attention of 
the funmakers from 1:00 to 5:00 on 
Friday afternoon. The committee, 
under the chairmanship of William 
A. Conway, has definitely arranged 
a program and has managed to fill 
the afternoon as completely as 
possible. The following is the pro­
gram and a description of the 
events:
ROLLER SKATE RACES—1:00. 
The roller skate races, which will 
be held as an inter-dormitory com­
petition for girls, are to be run 
off in three heats and a final. Out 
of the ten girls entered in each 
heat three will be chosen for the 
finals, the winner of which along 
with the two who gain second and 
third places will be presented with 
truly novel prizes. These girls 
will be supplied with skates by the 
committee.
PARADE OF FLOATS—2:00. 
With a slight intermission be­
tween it and the races, the Parade 
of Floats is billed to begin at a 
signal from the chief of the Cam­
pus Cops from the bottom of the 
hill alongside of the lower part of 
the College oT Industries. The 
parade will then , continue around 
in front of. ;the', Gymnasium and 
past .the . Judge’s stand which will 
be at the corner in front of Mar­
garet Morrison. Here it will turn 
left and continue alongside the 
(Continued on Page Three)';
FRANCES SCHNEIDERHELEN HARRISONJANE CROYLEMARGERY LEWINE
NANCY SLOAN Maid of Hono*-
ELIZABETH NEELY
Mnlil of Honor ROSALIND M1THCIIEKN
MARY McKEONBETTY SIMON
Photo by BrcckonNOTICE
. ì 4MT . ^'^le dress rehearsal for Corona-tion will*.be Held Wednesday, May 
---------------------—----——-• 18, in the Gym at 4:30. All the
WILLARD HOLLOWAY «Ms arc to report to Room 212,Margaret Morrison Carnegie Col-
leral Chairman of tho Spring Carnival lege at 3:30.
TICKET SALE
The final sale of Spring Carni­
val tickets, under the supervision 
of the Gwens, will be held’ today 
and tomorrow from 11:30 to 1:30 
and all afternoon Thursday, in the 
main corridors of all four schools. 
Tickets may be 'secured at any 
^imc this week from Mr. Davis in 
the Y. office. For those who 
properly identify themselves tick­
ets .will be sold at the door the 
nights of the dances.
competition for the design cup on 
a much fairer basis.
The course, as shown in the 
above cut, will be in general the 
same as it has been in previous 
years. Because of the newly-placed 
traffic dummies and flashers at 
the top of the Gymnasium hill, this 
portion of the course will be laid 
out in lanes. Any buggies that 
leave their respective lanes before 
reaching the neutral zone at the 
top of the hill will be disqualified. 
Spectators arc requested to kepp 
out of the street on this section 
of the course so that they will 
not interfere with the buggies that 
draw the outside lanes.
The Campus Queen, Mary Mc­
Keon, will present the, two cups, 
one for the race and one for the 
design, to the captains of the win­
ning teams at the Qualifications 
exercises on Saturday afternoon.
Irhe Interfraternity Sweepstakes, 
anfnual Spring Carnival classic, will 
be, run off this Friday and Satur­
day mornings between 11:00 and 
12^:00. Entry lists with the names 
of- the five pushers, the driver, and 
this two alternates must be given 
too Lorin C. Brown, chairman of 
thjji Sweepstakes committee, at the 
Si; tna Nu house before Thursday 
at , noon.
;.jJ.'he rule which provides for the 
addition of the names of two al­
ternates to the entry list was new­
ly «made this year. It was added 
to [ the rules of previous years to 
taty.e care of the inability of one 
of a team’s members to participate 
in the race. Another cnange in the 
rul es is that one which specifies 
thé it the buggy entered into the 
de: ûgn competition must also be 
en :ered in the race. This, the 
co mmittee, believes, will take place
MARTHA BURRYMARY HELEN STEPHANYMARGARET ACCIPITERKATHERINE MONG
RACnEL MERENESSGeneral Chairman: Willard C.
Holloway.
Assistant Chairman: Edward II. 
Keller.
Secretary: Rosalind R. Mitshelen. 
Treasurer: James A. Corrigan. 
Coronation': Gloria A. Kloos. 
Registration: Harold J. Brennan. 
Publicity: Harry D. Kolb.
Social: John C: Horning.
Qualifications: Harvey A. Collins.
Sweepstakes: Lorin C. Brown.
Lighting: Frank A. Lcnnberg, Jr.
Construction: Samuel K. Wilson.
Heyday: William A. Conway.
Pageant: Margery J. Lewine.
Costumcfc: Aulma E. Blessing,
Closing Exercises: J. Raymond 
Knopf.
Spring Carniva 
ProgramClosing Exercises 
OutdoorsSeveral years ago when the Spring Carnival was then 
known as Campus Week, the prize winning slogan used 
was, “Let’s reach the peak at Campus Week;” This year 
the slogan is still applicable. Thursday, Friday, and Satur­
day of this week will bring a carnival period which should 
prove a fitting climax to an already successful year.
A program showing much more promise than any of 
recent years has been planned. The committee, sincere in 
its own efforts, has worked untiringly to. give the campus 
an opportunity to “reach the peak.” All that remains is for 
the students to catch the enthusiasm that makes the carni­
val a traditional success. Undoubtedly this is the period 
when the best time is had by the greatest number of peo­
ple in school.
A number of innovations, that have been added to the 
program this year, depend on a favorable reception in order 
to be included in future carnivals. The musical revue is 
being produced and written entirely by a group of students 
who arc faithfully giving their efforts to provide a better 
carnival. Their ambition and sincerity should culminate in 
the formation of some permanent organization to carry on 
their work. The Tartan is pleased to be able to dedicate 
this issue to the Spring Carnival committee, and to the 
various groups who by their splendid co-operation have 
made possible this year’,s festival.
“Let joy be unconfincd” typifies the spirit of these 
several days that have been granted as a final relaxation 
before final exams. It has been true in the past that in un- 
confining their joy, students often also permit their be­
havior to become unrefined. There is no cause to demand 
sophistication at the Spring Carnival, but a suggestion and 
a plea for good judgment .is in order, and is vitally con­
nected with the future of the carnival.
Thursday Evening 
9:00 to 1:00—Coronation Ball, 
Gym and Thistle Hall.
10:00—Coronation.
Friday Morning 
10:30 to 11:00—Design Cup Com­
petition, front of Margaret Morri­
son.
11:00 to 12:00 — Interfraternity
Sweepstakes.
Friday Afternoon 
Heyday
. l:5o to 2:00—Roller Skate Races, 
side College of Fine Arts.
2:30 to 3:30—Parade of Floats. 
4:00 to 5:00—Intramural Mush­
ball Finals, Forbes Street Ball- 
grounds.
Friday Evening 
9:00 to 1:00—Costume Ball, Gym 
and Thistle Hall.
Saturday Morning 
10:00 to 11:00—President’s Re­
view of R. O. T. C., Cut.
11:00—Sweepstakes Finals.
Saturday Afternoon 
2:00 to 4:00—Qualifications Excr­
ciscs, Sylvan Theater, (a) Honor­
ary Calls, (b) Student Council and 
Class Presidents Installation.
Saturday Evening 
8:00 to 11:00—Musical Revue,
The closing exercises to the
Spring Carnival, which will be held
on Saturday evening in the Sylvan 
Theater, will bring to life some 
of the old traditions of Carnegie, 
and try to establish some new ones 
for later years. The exercises arc 
scheduled to begin as soon as the 
Musical Revue is finished, which will 
be at 11:00 and will be closed with 
the Alma Mater at about 12:00.
The Campus Queen, Mary Mc­
Keon, and her court will lead a 
procession from the Gymnasium 
via the upper entrance and thence 
to the stage of the theater where 
they will preside over the execu­
tion of Carnegie's traditions. The 
classes are requested to follow in 
the procession in order of their 
standing, Seniors first, Juniors fol­
lowed by the Sophomores and 
Freshman.
The program will begin with a
song by the Cwfcns and Druids, 
Sophomore Women's and Men's 
honoraries. This will be followed 
by the introduction of William 
Beal and Herman Liverwright, co­
directors of the Musical Revue. 
The Welding of the Link, by one 
of the Freshman class of this 
year, will be the next feature of 
the program. The Men’s Glee Club 
will then offer a few selections 
before the exercises arc closed 
with the Alma Mater Board and 
Dragon, senior honoraries for 
women and men.
Sweepstakes Course
Carnival Committee
Saturday Evening 
11:00 to 12:00—Closing Exercises, 
(a) Welding of the Link. (b) 
Welcoming of the Freshman Class, 
(c) Class Songs, sponsored by 
class honoraries. (d) Senior Fare­
well.
Sealed, loft to right—Harvoy Collinj, Gloria Klooi, Willard Holloway, Aulma 
Blessing, Harry Kolb. Standing—Edward Kollor, Samuol Wilson, James Corrigan, 
William Conway,

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWO.THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MAY 17, 1532.
Varsity and Plobo Trackori At Pitt 
Today; Tomplo Run*
Hora Thii Saturday Aftornoon.TARTAN SPORTS PAGE
Varsity Tennis Team Plays ì, 
At Georgetown and /; 
Johns Hopkins This Week-End#
-tflE PLAID
JOE MICHAELSON
Track Team Meets Pitt And Temple
Annual Pitt Meet Today; 
Owls to Furnish Hard 
Test
THIS WEEK MARKS THE SEMI-WINDUP of Carne­
gie’s spring sport program. The results as a whole have been 
above the average, but there remain a few contests of impor­
tance for this and next week. This afternoon's annual clash in 
the Panther’s hollow has every reason to raise the Plaid’s track 
losses to two in number. Both 'Pitt and Carnegie are repre­
sented by stronger teams than they arc in the habit of pos­
sessing, and as a result the Skibos can only hope to take half 
as many as their opponents.Saturday’s attraction in the Bowl will be more like a meet­
ing of birds of one feather. A squad of Temple Owls will de­
scend with their record breaking individuals who perform with 
much success in the 440, 880, high jump, pole vault, and shot 
put. The Philadelphians easily submerged C. C. N. Y., in a 
dual track meet recently, taking all but one of the first places,* * * *
AS PER SCHEDULE, Geneva’s cinder pounders gained a 
well earned verdict over the Plaid outfit last week. Evans, 
Geneva’s star, was forced to break a record in order to cross 
I lie finish line one foot ahead of Tom Coulter in the high 
hurdles. However, the Plaid Captain came back with a 13.1. in 
the low sticks, a shade slower than his time a year ago in the 
same meet.One ambitious hammer thrower at the Geneva meet came 
very close to bagging a prize stock of two-milcrs as they jogged 
around in their race. The ball and chain fell in the midst of 
the first three runners, the chain wrapping about the leg of the 
second place man. Jess Price, who was running in third place, 
played the good Samaritan when he helped the Geneva cripple 
out of the tangle. Both runners continued the race, which 
Price later won with yards to spare.* + *, *
r\ a WEEK FULL OF RAIN was enough to post- 
//m, pone all softball activities last week. The
//—J». revised schedule calls for fourteen games this
' .L tL week so that the championship series may
come to a close in next Tuesday’s contests, 
Four teamB will play in the finals, each team 
meeting the other in one game.
Intramural softball has been thriving at 
Duquesne for the first time this year. It
seems appropriate that the Duke and Plaid
winners should get together in1 a game to
decide the first intercollegiate softball cham­
pions of Pittsburgh.* * # *
THE GREEKS’ ANNUAL PLAY DAY, which lasted a
week, has come and gone with a hundred-per cent profit to the
Kappa Sigs. This fraternity won the special cup-for the four- 
lap relay and the trophy for the most point:« in the meet,
The meet was conspicious foi' the interest- shown on the 
opening, day, and the lack of that „.very same atmosphere when 
the finals were run off. Many entries who qualified the first 
day did not put in an appearance on the final day. It is hoped 
that student track meets of the future will’ be planed in advance 
more thoroughly so they may serve their purpose better. Why
not place this sport in the hands of Intramural authorities
where all other similar activities are properly conducted?>H ik * *
JUST ABOUT THREE MONTHS separates the “thun­
dering herd” from their first crack at 1032 football training 
camp. No one looks for their arrival more than Coach Waddell 
for up until that time he has no definite assurance of the ma­
terial which can be counted upon. The training grind will be 
gin a s usual on the first of September with four weeks to get 
in shape for the opening game with Geneva, here, on October 1.
The 1032 card presents an excellent opportunity for student 
travel, six of the nine games being played on foreign fields. W,
& J. and Pitt will offer the high spots on the home program.
The Presidents arc suffering from a rejuvenation in all their 
forms of athletics, and from all accounts they should measure 
up with the Skibos on the gridiron next fall. Pitt has their 
usual bulwark of strength which will go toward making this game the season’s climax.
Temple continues on the schedule with the game in Phila­
delphia, returning here in 1033 to fulfill the two-year contract. 
St. Louis University breaks into the program again, while 
Xavier makes their debut in the role of the dark horse. Com­
petition with Purdue has been suspended for a year, and a two- 
year contract with the Boilermakers will begin the following year.
The most encouraging bit of news concerning the Plaid 
squad of 1032 is in the fact that each position will be filled 
by two or more players of first-string ability. Weak substitutes 
have been the cause of much trouble in the past, and the out­
look for next season shows a healthy array of quantity and quality.
The recent freshmen team will contribute more than their 
share to the varsity material, while the return of several in­
éligibles will bolster the squad still further.* * * *
T w THE OVL.OXI ,I.OXNo33O0,V.O TVLUO.TV33LEAGUE will open its first season of activity next winter. The 
members of this league include Carnegie, Pitt, West Virginia 
Temple, Georgetown, and New York U. Each team will meet 
an opponent twice during the season to determine the winner 
of the cup which is being presented by Temple.
A notable addition to the seventeen-game schedule is the 
Notre Dame game, to be played in the Tartan Gym * * * *
"TWO-YARD" ELMER VORDERBURG, of football 
fame, added more laurels to his nomenclature by virtue of his 
placing in the 100 and 230-yard dashes of the W. & J, meet.
And hereafter the notorious two-yarder will be known as thetwo-point athlete.
(Toledo papers please copy.)
PLEBE RUNNERS 
SCORE VICTORY
The Carnegie Tech Plebes Track 
lenin added another scalp to their 
belt when they journeyed across 
town Friday afternoon and thorough­
ly trimmed SJiadyside academy 93-29. 
The Tartan yearlings were in fine 
form, taking the lead in the first race 
and never relinquishing it thereafter. 
The Plebes showed their all around 
strength by winning in the field as 
well as on the track. They allowed 
their opponents but six points in the 
weight events. Shadysidc managed to 
gain only two fiVst places in the whole 
meet, one being in the quarter mile 
and the other in the 880-yd. relay in 
which the Plebes were disqualified 
after winning by a good margin.
Perina who was elected captain be-
Temple Meet Is 
Part Of Spring 
Carnival Program
Kappa Sigmas Win Interfraternity
Track Meet By Score Of 38-37
Biggin, Croft, and Hower High Scorers- 
Postponement Causes Poor 
Turn Out
-Continual
The hardest week of the season for 
the Carnegie track team is now at 
hand. Saturday afternoon, in con­
junction with Spring Carnival, Car­
negie meets Temple University for 
the first tittle iii the track history 
of the two schools. On paper the 
meet appears as though it will be 
the closest and hardest fought of 
the season' for Tech with the out­
come a toss-up.
Temple has a strong, well-balanced 
team and recently, in a meet with 
City College of New York, which 
they won, easily, set several new 
school records. Temple also won one 
of the mile relay races at the Penn 
Relays a few weeks ago, and the 
prowess of these sprinters was 
further attested to in the meet men­
tioned above as one Davis set 
school record of 2:00.6 for the 880, 
and Ensler bettered the stadium 
mark in the 440. In Peacock, Tem­
ple boasts a broad jumper of national 
prominence, who with Read in the 
high jump and pole vault, will ex­
hibit plenty of jumping class. Fcdcr- 
off set a new school record when 
lie negotiated the mile run in 4:30.
Tartan prospects in this meet, how­
ever, arc anything but gloomy, as 
the Plaid has athlfctcs to offset most 
of Temple’s record breakers. Re­
gardless of the outcome, the meet 
gives promise of being one of the 
most exciting staged in the Bowl 
many a moon, and the Scotch 
cindcritcs have set their hearts on 
topping off the Spring Carnival with 
victory. The contest has been 
moved back to 3:00 to avoid a con­
flict with qualifications.
Pitt Meet Today
Today in the Stadium .our trackers 
engage Pitt in the annual clAsh and 
high light of the season. The pros­
pects of a victory over Pitt are not 
exactly bright, but the meet should 
provide the usual number of thrills 
that are always present when Tech 
and Pitt teams clash. To date the 
Tartans have lost but one engagement 
and Pitt has yet to score a victory, 
but this type of comparison is by 
no means an effective one.
An individual review of the Panther 
squad shows them especially strong 
in the weight events as Valenti, 
MacMurdo, Luch and Tormcy can be 
counted upon to score heavily. Sc 
bast inn is a broad jumper of some 
ability, and McDermott should do 
well in the pole vault. Carnegie’s 
Held hopes lie with Armen trout, 
Stent*, Forsman, Barger, . Merten, 
Johns and E, L. Brindcl.
Coulter should experience little dif­
ficulty in taking the low hurdles, but 
will find plenty of opposition from 
Keller in the 440 and Lewis in the 
high sticks. Jess Price will .have to 
Step to win from Pitt’s two-milcrs, 
and if Roy runs the mile, Ramsay 
and Allen will he hard put for vic­
tory. Harris, Panther sprint star, and 
Watkins, half milcr, have, recorded 
better times than any Plaid runners 
to dale.
On the same (lay as the varsity 
meet, the Plebes close their season by 
engaging the Pitt yearlings. Pitt as 
usual has a galaxy of ex-high school 
stars and should win handily. How­
ever, individual victories in the 
dashes, hurdles and half mile will 
not come so easily.
On Friday afternoon the Intcrfra- 
ternity Track meet Was finally con­
cluded after two hectic days of run­
ning, jumping and whatnot.. From all 
of this the Kappa Sigmas emerged 
victorious by one point over the fast 
stepping Beta Theta Pi team.
The first part of the meet was 
held on Monday, but it was not 
until Friday that the elements decid­
ed to give t.hc trackstcrs a chance 
to fight it out for the championship. 
These three days of postponement 
decidedly decreased, the interest in 
the meet; for many of the men who 
had won places in the trials did not 
show up for the finals. However, it 
was worthwhile and every one en­
joyed the meet, even the runners 
themselves.The lvappa Sigs were enabled to 
win mainly through their supremacy 
the field events, winning three 
first places in this part of the meet. 
The Betas, who finished second, 
were .heavy. winners in the running 
events. They captured three first 
places on the track. The Sigma Nu’s 
were third followed by Delta Upsilon, 
Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Phi Kappa 
Psi, and Delta Tau Delta.
Arv Biggin was high scorer of 
the meet capturing a first, second, a 
third, and a fourth place for a total
of fourteen points. Dutch Croft was 
close behind with thirteen points. 
He won two firsts and a. third. 
Harry Hower by winning the 100- 
yard dash and the lap race was third 
the individual scoring with a 
total of ten points.
The Kappa Sigma’s again won 
the four lap relay race defeating the 
Sigma Nu’s and the Beta Theta Pi 
teams. The Beta’s after leading for 
three laps lost out when Hower 
pulled a tendon and was unable to 
finish.
The winning relay team was com­
posed of Black, Croft, Flanagan, and 
Pouncey.
Summary of Team Scores
1. Kappa Sigma ------------- —- 38
2. Beta Theta Pi -----------------------37
Sigma Nu ---------------------------25
TARTANS SUFFER 
FIRST TRACK LOSS
Trackers Bow to Strong 
Geneva Outfit By 88-46 
Score
Court Men Meet 
Strong Opposition 
On Eastern Trip
First Match With Johns Hop­
kins, Friday; Play Hoyas 
Saturday
ALUMNI NOTES
Directory Of 
Carnegie Clans
3.4. Delta Upsilon
5. Sigma Alpha Epsilon
6. Phi Kappa Psi ----.—
7. Delta Tau Delta .
WOMEN’S ATHLETICS
fore the meet, and .Brown, a weight 
man, shared the .high scoring honors 
for the afternoon when each man 
scored fifteen points by winning three 
first places. Perina captured the 100- 
yd. dash, the 220-yd. dash, and the 
broad jump. Brown finished first 
the shot put, discuss and javelin. 
Other first place winners were Hoff- 
man in the mile, Allen in the High 
Hurdles and the Pole vault, Clark in 
the Low Hurdles, Burke in the half 
mile, and DcWitt, Allen, and Ewalt, 
all of Tech, tying in the High Jump.
Perina the bcspcctlcd Plcbc cap­
tain who had been burning up the 
cinders for the yearlings was clocked 
in good time for both the 100 and 
the 220-yd. dashes. On a slow track 
and with a strong wind against him 
lie negotiated the first race in 10.3 
seconds while lie ran the longer 
stretch in 23.1 seconds.
W. A. A. Conference
At the confcrencc of the Women’s 
Athletic Association, which was held 
at Forest Hills, Avella, Pennsylvania, 
the week-end of May 14, plans for 
the next school year were discussed, 
and recommendations to further 
sport participations of the women of 
Carnegie were given by several mem­
bers of the retiring Board. Meetings 
were held Saturday evening and Sun­
day morning, with Marian McNary,’ 
the newly elected president, in charge.
Besides working on next year’s 
plans, the Board had a very enjoy­
able time. Horseback riding, mushball, 
hikes, cooking out-of-doors, and 
games, helped to pleasantly pass the 
time away all too quickly.
Other members of the new Board 
are: Eleanor Sherman, Sylvia Waide, 
Margaret Watters, Jean Ritzel, Hazel 
Gough, Esther Freni, Aulma Bless­
ing, Mary Kelly, Mary Jane Gray, 
and Virginia Linn.
The organization is sponsored by 
Miss Russell and Miss Kenrick.
W. A. A. Cabin
The W. A. A. plans to buy land 
near Pittsburgh, accessible by bus 
or street car, on which an outing- 
club cabin may be built. This cabin, 
subject to such restrictions as the 
organization might make, will he open 
to the use of the women of Car­
negie. The proposed site is about ten 
miles wcst of Crafton on the Wil­
liam Penn Highway and is easily 
accessible by bus or automobile. W. 
A. A. would greatly appreciate an 
expression of the opinion of the 
members—every Carnegie girl—as to 
whether or not they think the plan 
one that can be carried out and one 
that will add to the enjoyment of 
ALL. Talk to a member of the Board NOW!
Friday the thirtèènth plus the 
prowess of a. score of Genèva ath­
letes (but mostly the Geneva ath­
letes), combined to hand the hith­
erto unbeaten Carnegie track team 
its first defeat of the season. The 
Tartans, minus the services of 
Sigmund and Merten, lost by an 
89 to 46 score to the powerful 
aggregation in a meet that -was in­
teresting to watch although the 
Gold and White supremacy Was 
evident from the start. Geneva is, 
with one of two possible excep­
tions, the strongest team in the 
tri-state district and the showing 
which Carnegie made against them 
was extremely commendable to say 
the least.
The Covenanter tracksters cared 
not for the potential greatness of 
any of their opponents and Evans 
lost little time in handing Captain 
Tom Coulter his first defeat of the 
season, by winning the high hur­
dles. Evans, incidentally, estab­
lished an all-time Geneva record 
when he clipped of the flight in 
15.4. Record breaking was ap­
parently in order, however, as 
Coûter came biiclc soon after and 
nosed out Spencer to take the 120- 
yard low hurdles in 13.1 seconds, a 
new Reeves Stadium mark. All the 
Beaver Falls stars seemed to single 
Coulter out to pick on, and 
Thomas, crack Negro sprinter, 
took his turn in the 220, the last 
event of the meet. Tom and the 
colored flash raced along side by 
side for 200 yards, but Thomas 
finally pulled away and breasted 
the tape inches in front of the 
Plaid Captain.
Carnegie Wins Two Mile
Jess Price 'continued his great 
two mile running when lie won by a 
fast 10:20 to outdistance the field 
¦with ease. "General” Ramsay and 
Shorey Allen repeated their one- 
two act in the mile to win handily. 
Lew Ewing ran a . good race in 
placing third to Thomas and Suaer 
in the 440. Geneva swept the 
"century” and Nulton shaded Bob­
bie Schell and Emil Stankey in 
the 880 to climax the running 
events.
Johns, proved to be one of the 
pleasant surprises of the meet 
from a Carnegie standpoint, as he 
won the broadjump and tied for 
third in the high jump. Johns got 
off to a slow start this season 
but at present is one of the fastest 
improving men on the squad. 
Geneva took all three places in the 
pole vault.
After Rupp and Bcggs got 
through scoring points in the field 
events there weren't many left for 
Carnegie. Rupp won the shot, 
hammer and discus easily and 
Bcggs tossed the javelin some 191 
feet in taking his specialty. Ar- 
mcntrout placed second in the shot 
and also made his best hammer 
throw of the year, an effort which 
fell just four feet short of the 135- 
foot record. Stcntz and Forsman 
took second and third respectively 
in the discus.
Summary of Track and Field 
Events
100 Yard dash: Hower, first; (2) 
Maync; (3) Bailey; (4) Wicks; 
(5) Bailey. v
220 Yard dash: Wicks, first; (2), 
Bailey; (3) Black; (4) Flannagan.
120 Yard Low Hurdles: Biggin, 
first; (2) Sayles.
Relay: Kappa Sigma, first; (2) 
Sigma Nu; (3) Beta Theta Pi.
Shot Put: Croft, first; (2) Shann; 
(3) Schncller; (4) Fleckenstcin; (5) 
Flannagan.Pole Vault: Lamphier, first; (2) 
Shann; (3) Kuhn.
Javelin: Fergus, first; (2) Hiltz; 
(3) Croft; (4) Jagnow; (5) Shann.
High Jump: Croft, first; (2)
Biggin; (3) Ingham; (4) Maync; 
(5) Smith.Broad Jump: Enfield, first; (2) 
McConnel; (3) Bigfcin; (4) Raudt- 
baugli; (5) Mayne.
Discus: Flcckenstinc; first; (2)
Shann; (3) Schneller (4) Biggin; 
(5) Flannagan.
Golfers Hold First
Practice In Rain
In spite of harrowing weather 
conditions, a j^roup of 27 followers 
of that popular Scotch pastime 
hiked around eighteen holes of the 
Pittsburgh Field Club last Satur­
day morning in an effort to prove 
to Mr. Ovcrend that golf has its 
possibilities at Carnegie Tech. A1 
though the temperature was low 
both the spirits and the scores 
were high.
Bob Haverstick made the lowest 
score with an 86, which is con­
sidered quite good over a difficult 
course on a muddy day. There 
were two scores of 90, and about 
15 of the aspirants broke a hun­
dred.
According to reports from the 
Graduate Manager’s office, a date 
for another practice round Avill be 
set for the near future. Likewise, 
there is possibility of informal 
matches with Duquesne and Pitt 
before the year is out. Material 
is available for an eight-man team.
After having ;been rained out 
for one week straight, Coach B. P. 
Hoover’s varsity net squad will 
swing into action again late this 
week. Early Friday morning, the 
squad will embark'on a short, trip 
through the East, where they will 
face Johns Hopkins at Baltimore 
on Friday, and engage a powerful 
Georgetown aggregation at Wash­
ington, D. C., the following day.
Georgetown has the distinction 
of being one of the strongest ten­
nis schools in the East. It was 
there that Gregory. Mangin, Amcr- 
can Davis Cup player displayed his 
prowess at the art of racquet wield­
ing. Mangin will not.be with the. 
team, hut from all reports the 
boys are just as good as ever. 
Last year they whitewashed the 
Tartans 7-0, this being one of the 
two matches dropped by the Hoo- 
vcrmen last season.
First Johns Hopkins Match
Johns Hopkins also has a for­
midable array of stars this year. 
Last week they scored an upset 
in bowling over a strong Prince­
ton team by a 6-3 score. This will 
be the first time that the Skibos 
will have meet President Baker's 
alma mater on the courts.
Although no definite announce­
ment has been made by Coach 
Hoover, the probable lineup for 
Carnegie will be Groves, Gcsling, 
Dueger, Hartig and Morrii or Ja- 
lonack.
During the last w'eck, the team 
has not been on the courts once. 
Old J. Pluvius was in no mood 
conductive to tennis, and conse­
quently two important meets, one 
with Pitt and one with Tenlplc, 
had to be canceled.
The Plebes will be .idle this 
week except for a lone meet with 
Wash-Jeff on Saturday on the 
Carnegie courts. The young Tar­
tans are favored to cop in this one. 
They likewise have been idle this 
past week, having been rained out 
at scheduled matches with Shady- side and Pitt.
LETTERS GIVEN
TO RIFLE TEAM
SOFTBALLERS 
APPROACH FINALS
Championship Play Begins 
With Four Teams 
Friday
A number of capital softball 
events are in order for this wreek as 
result of the many postponements 
of last week. Mr. Riscdorph has 
drawn up a revised schedule which 
is given below;
In yesterday’s contests the Phi 
Kapp’s, K. D. R’s, A. T. O’s, and 
either the T. D. Phi’s or the B. S. 
R’s should wind up with one more 
game to their credit. The probable 
winners for today are the K. Sigs, 
T. P’s, R. D. R’s, and the D. S. 
Lambdas. These eight teams will 
simmer down to four in the process 
of the games on Wednesday and 
Thursday.
GAMES THIS WEEK
Tuesday, May 17
Scavengers v?. R. D. R., 6:30.
D. S. L. vs. D. T. D.. 5:30.Ross Unit vs. B. T. P., 7:80 
McGill Hnllvs. K.'S.,7l80.
Wednesday, May 18 
Winner Hr. 27 vs. ’Winner Br. 28, 5:30.Winner Br. 56 vs. Winner Br. 57, 5:80. 
Thursday, May 19
Winner Br. 5R vs. Winner Br. 50. 5 ¡30.
Winner Br. 25 vs. Winner Br. 26, 6 ¡30. 
Friday, May 20
Winner Br. 20 vs. Winner Br. SO, 4:00.
Winner llr. 60 vi, Winner Br. 61, 4:00. 
Monday, May 23
Winner Br. 20 vs. Winner Br. 60, S liiO.
Winner Br. 30 vs. Winner Ur. 61, 5 :30. 
Tuesday, May 24
Winner Br. SO vs. Winner Br. 60. 5 :S0. Winner Br. 20 vs. Winner Br. 61, 5:30.
A reccnt announcement made by 
the Athletic Association upon the 
recommendations of Scargent Som 
mcr, coach of the Carnegie Rifle 
Team, awarded letters to the follow­
ing members of the team: Captain 
Fran Pointer, Fred Bcckert, Stephen 
Scherba, Ned Stirling, Lawrence 
Dickson, Helmot Buse, Willard Hollo 
way, and Ewing Irons.
These men have been responsible 
fOr upholding the high rank that 
Skibo sharpshooters have gained 
among collegiate teams throughout 
the' country. Several scorfcs from 
nation-wide matchfcs have yet to be 
published, but the season has al­
ready been a very successful one for 
the Plaid musketeers.
Next year’s team will be under 
the leadership of Steve Scherba, 
who was elected captain by his team 
mates. Scherba’s w'ork this season 
has been outstanding, both in in­
dividual competitions and as a mem­
ber of the team. Against the strong 
Navy team, when the Skibos journey­
ed to Annapolis, Scherba turned in an 
exceptional score of 287 out of 300 
to lead the field. Ned Stirling will 
manage the team next year.
Six lettermen will return for 
next year, with Beckert and Hollo­
way graduating. Some good pros­
pects from the Plebe team will fill 
the remaining files and will give 
a bright outlook for another out­
standing season.
;k Pay a Reasonable Price
MAR Yc KEOc Nl OcMeer laAc KCNcKh ic 
CMmc Mn oNNR KCNcK Mf eNt SOapcK MK pMA Yc NfMaAcR aA fCc pafrh gEf MK 
RcScARMYec KCNc vcOpCMAfK tc dEKf MR,daf fCMf M RNeeMO NO ftN dYOc Kfaee YErK oOcMfcO pNdlNOf MAR eMKfaAo— o6NR eNNHKh yNO fajGWw Gu BEMeafr tc KaA,pcOcer OcpNddcAR
NUNN-BUSH
sAHecbyMKCaNAcR 
.Jy.«VI y.« vTu 
DNE CMA Icc MAR ycce fCc VallcOcApc
$6.45 —$6.95
MURRAY AVENUE 
BOOT SHOP
1829 vj««sD sVTh, IQjG««TW HGWW 
HEce 5771
CLAN NEWS
AKRON, OHIO President: C. Hixenbaugh, 860 PackardDrive.Secretary-Treasurer: T. B. Gotham, Mo­hawk Rubber Co.
ATLANTA, GA.
President: John Nation, J. M..Tull Rubber & Supply Co., 285 Marietta Street. Secretary-Trcasurer: A. F. Eichorn, Johns- 
Manvillo Co.
BUFFALO, N. Y.President: Arthur L. Beck, 1064 EllicottSquare Building.Vice-President: Herbert Tumin.Secretary: H. S. Bcors, 502 Michigan Ave­nue. |Treasurer: Josephine Soisson, 39 IrvingPlace.CANTON, OHIO 
President: Harry B. Lilley, 817 Fifth
Street. N. W.Secretary-Treasurer: Mark S. Downes, 611
Twenty-second Street, N. W.
CHICAGO. ILL. .President: Homer C. Porter, 809 Michigan, 
Avenue, Evanston, III.
CINCINNATI, OHIO 
President: W. M. Ball, Jr., 3328 Avery
Lane.Vice-President: Donald Du Vail, 701 Fourth 
National Bank Building. Secretary-Trcasurer: M. C. Schwcrha,o£ Worthington Pump & Machinery Co., 1504 First National Bank Build­
ing, Cincinnati.
CLEVELAND, OHIO Men’s Clan 
President: E. A. Johnson, 1310 Hanna 
Building.Vice President: Raymond J. Weppner.Electric Refrigeration Dept., General Electric Co.,. Hanna Bldg. Secretary-Trcasurer: Richard H. Cutting, 2915 National City Bank Building. Women’s Clan President: Margaret Fogle, Suite G, 2130 Surrey Road, Cleveland Heights. 
Secretary-Treasurer: Irene La Londc, 26939 Bruce Road, Bay Village.
COLUMBUS, OHIO President: N. J. Engle, 266 S. High Street. Sccrctary-Treasurcr: J. R. Paloma. Dept., pf Romance Languages, Ohio State Uni­versity.CONNECTICUT President: W. S. Gallagher, 74 Orange Street, Hartford, Conn.Vice-President: Arthur Nelson, 85 RoweAyenue, Hartford.Secretary-Treasurer: Samuel Lebon, 48 Vil­
lage Street, Hartford.
DETROIT, MICH.President: W. Ray Williams, 5590 Lins- 
dale Avenue.Secretary-Treasurer: Norris Tilbrook, 10- 137 General Motors Building.
ERIE, PA.President: W. Spangenberg, 837 W. 11th 
St.Vice-President: Maitland Smith, 230 E. 6th St.Secretary: Michael Sancra, 944 Wcst 11th 
Street.Treasurer: E. J. Hedlund, 453 W. 31st St.
GOLDEN GATE (CALIFORNIA) Secretary: Mrs. R. L. Wharton (Eliznbeth 
Dearing), 3902 Clinton Avenue, Rich­
mond, California.
HARRISBURG, PA.President: Henry Y. Shaub, 1126 Wheat­land Avenue, Lancaster, Pa.
JOHNSTOWN, PA.President: D. C. Crum, 401 Onk St., Conc- 
maugh, Pa.Vice-President: Walter Sontum, 304 Tho- burn Street.Secretary-Trcasurer: Mrs. Dale McMastcrs (Mary Williams), 1106 Confer Avenue.
MILWAUKEE, WIS. . 
President: R. O. Perrine, in caro of Cutler- Hnmmcr, Inc., 12th Street and St. Paul Avenue.Sccretary-TrenRurer: Howard Dowhower,
2840 W. Highland Boulcvnrd.NEW YORK CITY Secretary: Mrs. O. A. Dickman, 190-14 
Ascan Avenue, Forest Hills, Long Is­land, N. Y.
NORTHERN NEW .TERSEY President: L‘. E. Krebs, 247 North Oraton 
Parkway, East Ornngc, N. J.Treasurer: II. E. Wnllaco, 151 Sip Avenue, 
Jersey City. N. J.Secretary: J. H. Kinghorn, 151 Sip Ave­nue, Jersey City, N. J.
PHILADELPHIA, PA.
Men's Clan 
President: R. M. 'Ward, 223 N. 84lh St. Vice-President: John Gicking, 7808 Lenox Avenue, Highland Park, Philadelphia. Secretary-Treasurer: Paul V. Shaver, 1210 
Penna. Building.Permanent Chairman of Advisory Board: L. E. Exline, in care of Herman Hoopcs, Inc., Real Estate Trust Bulld-r 
Ing.
Women’s Clan 
President: Mrs. Robert E. Lees (MaryRide). 3 Schiller Avenue, Narbcrth, Pa. Secretary-Treasurer: R. Leah Rothaus, 910 
Pine Street.
Cleveland Clan 
The Cleveland Clan held another 
luncheon meeting last Tuesday at 
Kasse’s restaurant at which twen­
ty-one men were present. The 
speaker was James C. Hobbs, who 
is the Alumni Trustee of Carnegie. 
He gave an informal talk on things 
of interest to Carnegie alumni.
Carnival Tickets On Sale
At Alumni Office, Wed.
The Alumni office will be open 
Wednesday evening, May 18, from 
5:30 to 8 p. m. for the sale of 
tickets to Alumni for the Spring 
Carnival. Tickets may also be ob­
tained by mail through the Alumni 
office. Checks should be made pay- 
able to James Corrigan, Treasurer 
of Student Council, and should be 
accompanied by . self-addressed, 
stamped envelopes. -\
The cost of tickets will be three 
dollars per couple or one dollar 
and a half for a single person. The 
tickets will admit the holder to 
the Coronation Ball on Thursday 
night, the Costume Ball Friday 
night, and the Musical Revue which 
closes the Carnival Saturday night.
All alumni and former students 
of Carnegie are eligible to purchase 
tickets. As this promises to be 
the best Carnival yet, many alumni 
are expected to he there.
CARNEGIE GIVEN 
LIBRARY SPACE
A rather singular honor has been 
confered on the Carnegie Alumni 
and Faculty recently when the \ 
Cleveland Engineering Society 
offered space in the library of its 
club rooms for any current en­
gineering material written by Car­
negie faculty and alumni.
Dr. Baker has already sent in to 
the society the Coal Conference 
Proceedings and some metallurgical 
and mining bulletins. Dr. Frocht 
has also contributed some material.
The Cleveland Engineer Society 
has a membership of 1600. Its 
modern up-to-date library containsv,1 
engineering periodicals, papers on; 
current engineering topics and tepct-^ 
books that are of interest to'^n- y 
gineers. Other schools .that have 
contributed material are Cornell' 
and Michigan Universities and Case 
School of Applied Science.
ARE YOU IN TOUCH WITH THE CLAN IN YOUR VICINITY?
15% COMMISSION
Paid to any Carnegie student se­curing student orders- for photo­
graphs at
W.O.BRECKON Studio
Forbes Building, Oakland 
REDUCED RATES NOW IN EFFECT
On The Way To Success
For over sixty years we have been helping young people with their financial affairs and showing them how a sound banking connection aids them on the way to success. Your future prosperity depends on thrifty habits in spending and saving; a bank account will . teach you to handle money wisely and will give you a foundation of experience in financial transactions. We wel­come student accounts re­
gardless of size.
Mellon National Bank I
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Tennis
Manager Warden asks that all who 
have signed up for the tennis tourna­
ment will please play their matches 
as quickly as possible. The rainy 
weather has been a great drawback, 
but perhaps some girls would be 
willing to plajr in the Women's Gym. 
Let’s get busy right away ; play your 
match tomorrow.
NOTICE
All . Crew Members, Supervisor», Team Captains, and Student subscrip­tion salespeople %vho wish to avail themselves of the opportunity for free 
scholarship made possible through the courtesy of the Leading Magazine Pub­lisher’s again this year are rcqusted to apply to the national organiser, M. Anthony Stelle, Jr., Box 244, San Juan, Forto Rico, stating Qualifications fully.
For the Coming Formal
Rent the Latest Style Hand-Tailored Tuxedo Suit 
and Accessories From Us.
ALL SIZES PERFECT FIT
Special Student Rates
Whittington Dress Suit Co.
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE
VMr PCNAc — «cKaRcApc PCNAc —
ATLANTIC 9595TVT«GWsVT 091I
A pipe is not for girls
We know why 
men smoke 
PIPES
W
OMEN don’t smoke pipes."
They’re not the style for wom­
en. But pipes are the style for men, 
and more than 
that, a pipe and 
good tobacco gives 
a man greater 
smoking pleasure 
than tobacco in 
any other form.
In 42 out of 54 
American colleges 
and universities 
Edgeworth is the favorite pipe to­
bacco. Cool slow-burning burleys give 
this fine tobacco exactly the character 
that college men 
like best of all.
Try a tin of 
Edgeworth your­
self I You can buy 
Edgeworth wher­
ever good tobacco 
is sold. OrifvJpu 
prefer, youcan ;et , 
a special sample 
packet free: write 
to Larus & Bro. Co., 105 S. 22d St., 
Richmond, Va., and ask for it. j
EDGEWORTlI
SMOKING TOBACCC1
Edgeworth is a blend of fine old budej \ 
with its natural savor enhanced by Ed; 
worth’s distinctive 
and exclusive elev- 1 
enth process. Buy 
Edgeworth any­
where in two forms —Edgeworth Ready- 
Rubbed and Edge- 
worth Plug Slice. All 
sizes, 15)! pocket 
package to £1.50 
pound humidor tin.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MAY 17, 1932.THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
idlejmhtStudent
A SECTION OF THE TARTAN 
DEVOTED TO THE 
NIGHT STUDENTS.Xlbe Carnegie HMaib
CAMPUS CARNIVAL PASSES ON SALE TO NIGHT 
STUDENTS
I don’t know whether to rcjdicc 
that school is over or to lamèrit 
at the fact that my fellow associ­
ates have parted, perhaps never to 
assemble again. Yes, I'll misi 
them. We were such good bud­
dies. Always trying to do some­
thing, that is, all but myself—for, 
you see, I never do anything but 
write in a poor fashion this idle 
column of an idle night student. 
'• 'But then, some of us must be idle 
else there would be no such thing 
I as impression—I mean depression. 
.- Sure, we li ave other idle people 
1 about, just look around and you’ll 
see. Wonder wh,en things will 
pick up. I’ll have to dope out 
some way to cure this ill of hu­
manity—that is, for everyone but 
myself. For, you see, that it 
-would never do for me to work. 
No, 'hot even a little bit.
* * * *
Work—who said work? Yes, 
there is lots of work about the 
campus. Plucking those sweet 
“dandalines"— yellow, if you please 
—they are coming up in great fash­
ion. Fritz is all hot and bothered 
about the dear little things. ' He!ll 
soon have Coxy’s army out In full 
force to dig them out root and all. 
What I am wondering at is why 
they let thèm go to waste when 
there is such a demand for that 
\ sVi tet stuff which is known a& 
‘ home brew.” The whole country 
jr.. now agog about the question. 
gì Tjhe government is losing a large 
revenue which would go a long 
way in reducing the contemplated 
nuisance ta which the solonS at 
Washington are very anxious to 
present us within the near future. 
Hope somebody sidetracks them 
before they get too far with thè 
plans else all our money will be 
spent in taxes. A pleasant thought 
to dwell upon.
* * * *
I suppost'the great majority of 
night; students are now wondering 
results of the recent 
' contcst was. You ask me what 
contest—-you don’t know—why, it’s 
the examination period just coin- 
pleted. Some of us took five, four, 
three, two, one, and some of us 
didn’t take any. The last group 
p is the one I would like to be in. 
Nothing to do but .look wise and 
pretend you know something. 
That’s the kind for me. Guess the 
grades will be going out shortly 
and then there will be a big howl 
about the marks we made. Some 
will think they should have receiv­
ed an Eiinstead of> an A—or should 
I reverse the statement?—just as 
you wish'. I know what I should 
have received and I won’t tell.* * * * - 
Wonder what improvements will 
be madi during the summer. You 
know, vy’e .always come back after 
our sojourn away from the campus 
for two! months or so to find that 
they hi/ve done something or an- 
« other with the equipment, build­
ings, or'; what not. All I hope is 
that they don’t forget this summer 
to makijj some changes. No, the 
c repression should not be an excuse 
for inaq.ivity.* * * *
Well, ’Campus Carnival Week is 
here at [fast after waiting a whole 
year for ! the party. I suppose the 
night students will be able to at­
tend the J functions this year as 
usual. I am going on this assump­
tion and will buy my tags for the 
affair. have enjoyed myself very 
much at\ all the other Campus car­
nivals ai d I am sure, from all the 
dope I have been reading on the 
signs ar I the notice in the Tartan, 
that thi . j’car’s carnival is going 
to be a 1 nockout. I'll bet that musi­
cal LE,oV • “Tar and Feathers,” will 
be all fe athers with the tar knock- 
\ ed out ( ;f it. “The Bacchanalians,” 
i...¡gee, that is some tongue twister,
‘ een “dramating” bchindi 
oors for some time and 
ey do that, you’re bound 
»mething good. So my ad- 
those night students who 
idea of attending the car­
lo get your tags soon and 
big show. You’ll see
(have b| 
. closed 
' 1 when th 
to see s( 
vise to 
have an 
nival is 
attend 
me the:JC
Nii: I Students
'¦siring Thistles 
hould Order Now
i very short time remains for 
ut students who desire copies 
Hustle to place their order.
or.ders are filled it will be 
p to order more as only 
number of Thistles have 
fcred. Orders should he sent 
: Night Thistle Staff, Box 
. T. Post Office, Schenley 
tsburgh, Pa.
rdance with a custom cstab- 
t spring, track officials at 
ENY will wear tuxedos 
(dating.
DID.A NOTICE
THAT, in spite of the summer
sessions, all the corridors and
halls seem deserted these eve­
nings.
THAT this new order of things 
gives us time to contemplate on 
what we should' have done and 
not what we did during the year.
THAT after all the social ac­
tivities are over, the burning
question in the minds of the
workers is, "Did I earn an In­
signia?”
THAT if night school had 
lastdd riiuch longdr wiL- wotild 
have become day students.
THAT the only people who 
carry on after night school closes 
arc those active boys and the 
“noospaper guys.”
THAT in spite of the present 
conditions the thoughts of some 
of our young swains turn to 
. . . hunting and fishing.
THAT the night dramats 
brought the house down with 
their fine performances last week.
THAT tint’s, that and I’ll be 
sc£nya!
Stick - To -It - Tiveness
It has been a bad, year for the' 
night studèhts. Most of us have béèn 
under several strains, all tending to 
break down our resistance to "let­
ting down” and fallihg sh'prt of our 
objectives. Many of us, in addition 
to carrying heavy schedules at night 
school have been forced to carry two 
or three positions during the day 
because of lay-offs in the depart­
ments of industry in which we are 
employed. Others of us have been 
out of work for a considérable lèngth 
ot time, and have 3tood idle while 
those dependent 011 us tried to make 
the best of things as they are, al­
though their brave attitude did not 
case the mental strain under which 
we labored while trying to carry on 
at school. And it seems safe to say 
that all of us have been worried 
more or less about the possibility of 
joining the army of thé unèmployed 
at almost any instant.
All of theàe things hâve been work­
ing against our good intentions, and 
have been thè cause of many a. failure 
that will bè reported in every de­
partment in the colleges. However, 
\t is indeed gratifying to note that 
the large numbér of students, rather 
than allow present conditions to 
break their spirit, have kept their 
cheerful fronts without any apparent 
external sign of the terrible internal 
stràins that bid fair to break their 
hearts as wèll as their .spirits.
It has ' been a relief to come to 
classes in the evening and f. d here 
a body of men who have refused 
to let economic conditions kill their 
ambitions, and who have had sonic 
other thing to discuss than thé pos­
sibility of a general political and 
economical collapse. It is true the 
subject could not always lie avoided, 
but it is just as true that many of 
us really enjoyed the change of at­
mosphere that our classes afforded.
The spirit of the night student 
must basically be a désire and a will 
to overcome obstacles. This is ap­
parent from the mere fact that he 
sacrifices the best part of his fréc 
time in an éffort to get an éducation. 
Conscqucntl}', it is not at all sut- 
prising that his spirit has continued 
to remain undaunted, and that lie 
can still smilè and appreciate thé féw 
things remaining to him at their réal 
worth.
COMING BACK NEXT YEAR?
LAST NIGHT OF SCHOOL
The word "depression” according 
to some savantS, is a much over 
used, misused and misunderstood 
word, and should be eliminatiti from 
our vocabulary. In fact some or­
ganizations have already made • by­
laws designed to fine all tho?e of its 
members who are guilty of using that 
word under arty circumstances what­
soever. Needless to say the member­
ship of these clubs is exclusive, com­
posed of men who have no financial 
worries and expect to have none in 
the futuré.
By what miracle of events would 
the elimination of the word "depres­
sion” from every day vernacular end 
starvation, fiiiancial chaos and alleviate 
conditions. It has never been explain­
ed, nor is it even a matter of 
speculation.
However we all know that poison 
by any other name is just as danger­
ous and has the same ravaging efféct, 
and those self-styled enemies of the 
word who try to foist théir stupid 
remarks and ridiculous predictions 
upon thè masses, succeéd in winning 
only our contempt, because it is 
evident that théy are insincère pub­
licity hounds who lives of luxury.
“Hard hit by the depression” is a 
common expression everywhere, and 
among night students the question 
“is the depression going to kèep you 
away from school next yeàr” is also 
often heard. Although the night 
school tuition fee at Carnegie is the 
lowest in the country, the scarcity 
of work makes even that sum look 
énormous to many of us.
A good plan for those of us who 
are still working a couple of days a 
week and who have an carneit de­
sire to return to Carnegie next year, 
would be to establish a tuition fund, 
adding to it each week at a ratio of 
one-twentiéth (there are approximate­
ly twenty weeks of vacation) of the 
tuition fee. In this way the sum put 
aside each week would be surprising­
ly small, amounting to hardly more 
tha a week’s carfare to Carnegie,
How is a night student affcctcd 
on the last night of school; is he 
disappointed, or docs she rejoice? 
This question weighed upon my 
mind until I could stand the sus­
pense no longér. I riiust learn the 
answer. -So, àrming myself with a 
péneil, pad, and a quizzical atti­
tude, I approached my first victim 
—an art student.
Q.—Miss Art Student, are you 
glad that this is thè last night of 
school?
Ans.—Well, in a way, but really, 
I’m sorry. It’s bcên such a pleas­
ure to be coming here three nights 
a week. Professor Warner was 
so nice and everything.
Q.—But why are you sorry?
AtiS.—You sée, my dog was run 
ovér, and I go to bed at 7 o’clock 
every niglit now to forget it.
Q.—True, a dog is man’s most 
faithful friend. But what type of 
model did you enjoy drawing most, 
malé, female or the red wheel­
barrow?
Ans.—Oh, get away from me, 
you made me think of my dog 
again. Mitzi was run over by a 
wheelbarrow. Get awày, I tell 
you, go away.
Whereupon I was forced to flee 
for my life to cêcapc the wrath of 
a temperamental art student of the 
female species, and I live to write 
this only because I disguised my­
self as the right .arm of Venus de 
Milo in the hall just outside of 
her classroom.
Somewhat disillusioned by the 
failüré of my first interview, I 
nevertheless ventured a visit to 
the College of Industries, there to 
attempt an interview with a \vork- 
ing student.
Q.—Mr. Industries Student, aren’t 
you sorry that this ii> the last 
night of school?
Ans.—Sorry nothing, I thought 
school would never énd.
Q.—What subjects did you like 
best and . . . .?
Ans.—Say, I’d like to lay hands 
on the art student that crashed pur. 
last smoker; do you know Who he 
is?
"Pardon me, but I’in inter­
viewing here,” I said kindly and 
proceeded to -shoot Ques|ions at 
him. Are you aware that sonic 
cntfcrprising young artist may yet 
win fame by painting a picture of 
the Cathedral of Learning viewed 
through onè of those beautiful 
striped horses that adorn the en­
trance to your school?
Ans.—The dèpresèion is a good 
thing, it teaches people how to 
save.
Q.—Pardon, but can’t you make 
some light? I can’t see to write 
my notes.
Ans.—Sure; wait, I’ll light a 
match for you. The agony was 
so great, however,, that I slipped 
away from his presence when he 
wasn't looking, and that endéd the 
interview'.
Not discouraged by my two fail­
ures, I walk' over to Engineering 
Hall to interview my last subject 
if I could.
Q.—Mr. Engineering Student, I 
suppose you àre glad that this is 
the làst night of school?
Ans.—Oh, I don’t know. I’m 
taking the nine-weék supplementary 
course anyway.
Q.—Are engineering students one 
of the seven classes of people who 
understand Einstein, and to what’ 
do you attribute their intellectual genius?
Ans.—Well, I have discovered 
the only correct way to trisect an 
angle, every other way is a fake, 
and I can’t prove it.
Q-—Is it true that you lean 
against a five foot slide rule to 
become mathematically inclined?
Ans.—Yes, I believe that art is 
nothing more than a scries of 
mathemàtical calculations.
Thank you for your most en­
lightening interview', Mr. Engineer­
ing Student, I said, bowing low 
to impress him with my culture 
and breeding.
And that concluded my series 
of interview's with typical members 
of that august body of night stu- 
dénts in an effort to find out how 
the closing of school affected them.
At this time of the year the . stu­
dents of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology center their activities 
upon one general climax. It is what 
is known as the Spring Carnival and 
is open to all students of the In­
stitute—present students, day and 
night, and alumni.
' A well arrange program for this 
year’s activities will be presented by 
the committee in charge and those 
who attend the festivities will be 
more than repaid. The arrangements 
arc such that all the major activities 
will take place under shelter so that 
there will be no possibility of the 
weather intcrfcrring with the prc* 
arranged program.
The coronation ccremoin-, ahvays 
an interesting feature' of' the Spring 
Carnival, will take place in the Gym­
nasium at ten o'clock on Thursday 
evening. Preceding and following this 
pageant will be the Coronation Ball 
which will be held simultaneously in 
Thistle • Hall and the Gymnasium. 
Dancing will continue until one 
o'clock.
On Friday, during the afternoon, 
will be the Heyday parade, when 
floats will parade past a reviewing 
stand in competition for a silver 
trophy. This should prove a very en­
tertaining feature of the carnival as 
a large number of sororities and fra­
ternities . have entered floats. In the 
evening, starting at 9:00 p. m. and 
lasting until one o’clock will be the 
Costume Ball. The ball will be held 
als~ in Thistle Hall and the Gym­
nasium. All types of costumes arc in 
order, for the affair and this ball has 
always been a very colorful feature 
of the carnival.
On Saturday evening the Musical 
Show will be presented. It is a new 
venture of the Drama students and 
indications arc that this review will 
be one- of the outstanding features 
of the week.
All night students' arc invited to 
attend the various activities of 
campus carnival and arrangements 
have been • made to sell passes for 
admittance. The purchase of passes 
will entitle night students to attend 
all the activities starting with Thurs­
day and ending on Saturday eve­
ning. This is the best entertainment 
value ever offered on the campus— 
$1.50. for single passes which will 
admit one person to all events, or 
$3.00 for couples- ¡which will admit 
onfc couple to all events. Sec notice 
on this page" about place and time 
of sale of passes to night students.
Returns For Dance 
Tickets Should Be 
Made Promptly
Ticket returns for all dances held 
during the year by the Night Student 
Council should be made promptly to 
Henry E. Mauro, Treasurer, Box 137, 
C.- I. T. Post Office, Schenley Park, 
Pittsburgh, Pa. It is important that 
these returns be made as they form 
a basis for points earned towards the insignia award.
The committee on Insignia Awdfd 
is now compiling data on the points 
earned by the night students during 
the year and unless the complete re­
turns are in on all ticket sales no 
credit can be given for Lhis phase 
of the work. Promptness therefore 
is essential in making returns if 
credit is to be given for tickets sold 
for the dances held during the year.
Night Students Invited 
To Attend Carnival
HEYDAY
(Continued from Page One} 
College ‘of Fine Arts, through the 
campus and past the Administra­
tion Building and thence over its 
previous course to the Judge’s 
stand where Harvey Collins, presi­
dent of'Alpha Tail, which honorary 
is donating the award, will presdnt 
the most original and burlesque 
float with a silver loving-cup.
Eighteen organizations have al­
ready definitely entered a float in 
the parade and others have signi­
fied their intentions.
INTRA-MURAL MUSIIBALL 
FINALS—1:00. To complete the 
program and Carnegie’s first Hey­
day, the finalists in the Intra-mural 
Mushball League will play nine in­
nings of this newly inaugurated 
sport for tlie championship of the 
school and the winner’s cup. 
GROUPS SPONSORING FLOATS 
Officially Entered 
Gamma Gamma. Gamma 
Beta Tau Lambda 
Alpha Kappa Psi 
Women’s Glee Club 
Delta Tau Delta 
Birch Hall\
Kappa Delta Rho 
Sigma Nu 
Pi Kappa Alpha 
Phi Kappa 
Delta Upsilon 
Forbes Hall 
Gwens
Beta Sigma Rho
Planning To Enter 
Delta Sigma Lambda 
Kappa Sigma 
Theta Xi 
Kiltie Band 
Englebrccht Hall 
Beta Pi
Judges who will choose the win­
ning float will be Dr. Griffis. Mr. 
Gress and Harvey Collins. Mem­
bers of the faculty who will cen­
sor the floats are Mr. R. V. Davis, 
Prof. Leighou and Prof. Lawler.
A trophy donated by Alpha Tau, 
College of Industries scholastic 
honorary, will be awarded to the 
winning organization.
The Fuller Brush Company has a limited number of openings in excellent territories, for college men this summer. The college agent will gladly give you fur­ther information.
W. S. BUTLER
932 MIRROR STREET 
HAzel 410S-W
CASH PAID FOR USED 
TEXT BOOKS
Whether Now Used Here or Not
GEORGE A. PILLSBURY
PRESIDENT
William R. Hoddcr, President of 
the Night Student Council during 
the year 1931-32 was re-elected presi­
dent for the year 1932-33 at a meet­
ing of the Council held during April.
Mr. Hoddcr is registered in the 
Night College of Engineering, in the 
Mechanical Engineering Department, 
and has been a student at the In­
stitute for over nine years. In addi­
tion to being President of the Night 
Student Council for the past year, lie 
has filled nianj' other extra-curri­
cular activities positions and among 
which w'cre Vice President of the 
Night College of Engineering, Social 
Chairman, and Editor-in-Chicf of the 
1931-32 Night Student Carnegie Hand­
book. He.had also been a news con­
tributor to the Skibo when it was in 
existence, and later to the Plaid 
after its establishment on the campus. 
He belongs to Phi Nu social fra­
ternity, and Ni* Sigma Alpha hon­
orary fraternity.
The Plaid congratulates Mr. Hod- 
der upon his rc-clcction to office for 
the year 1932-33.
Night Drama Students’ 
Plays Are Big Success
The night students in the Depart­
ment of Drama presented four one- 
act plays last week that showed 
dearly the ability of those students 
registered in the night classes. The 
character, parts were well interpreted' 
and showed a great deal of prepara­
tion.
The first play. "Joe,” a tragedy of 
the hilly-billy country, brought a 
lump to the throats of the audience 
as a mother, with "God’s Curse” upon 
her, sought to save here idiotic son 
from the authorities who had cOmc 
to take him away to an asylum. Al­
though the youthful appearance of 
the student cast in the part of the 
mother detracted somewhat from the 
play, the acting was well done and 
compensated in a measure for the 
shortcoming. *
The second play, “Women Folk,” 
a comedy on modern life which show­
ed the trials and tribulations of an 
aspiring author who was under the 
domineering influence of his mother 
and family relations. Everything was: 
under control of this sinister in­
fluence until love in the guise • of a 
pretty stenographer came into the 
life of the author, when the male 
comes into his rightful heritage and 
once more becomes boss of his home. 
It always turns out so; well at least 
in the movies it does. The acting 
was a little too obvious* but well 
done.
"Drums of Oudc," the next play 
presented, depicted the lonely life of 
a British garrison in India and how 
exciting even a dull life can become 
when the natives decide to play 
“pattic cake.” Yes, and even romance 
can blossom during such .trying times 
as these. War means nothing to a 
soldier but love, romance, and shame.
The last play, "The Warrior’s Hus­
band," was the high spot of the 
evening., A Greek drama, done in 
modern comedy style that was noth­
ing short of sensational. The. act de­
picted a tribe of Amazons that had 
subjected the male until he was 
slightly more than just a pet, but 
believe me, what a pet. All went 
well until "Here” and his press agent 
hit the camp, and after a series of 
side-splitting events, the down trod­
den male finally came into / his 
domineering self.
Carnival Passes
Available For
Night Students
Night Students desiring Spring 
Carnival passes can purchase 
them at the Council Room dur­
ing the evenings of this week. 
The prices of the passes arc as 
follows: Single passes arc $1.50 
cac.li, and couples arc $3.00. Pur­
chase of passes entitle the holder 
to attend all the activities during , 
campus carnival. There will be 
110 extra charge for the final 
show on Saturday evening which 
this year will be staged in the 
Gymnasium Auditorium.
TWO ORCHESTRAS
(Continued from Page One) 
inexpensive costumes should be 
worn to the dance. As usual each 
fraternity will decide on, a certain 
type of costumc for its members 
who will come dressed alike.
Butler University—A novel sub­
scription dance was held at Butler 
University in which each young 
lady was weighed at the door and 
her escort paid so much per pound. 
In keeping with the times, one of 
the fraternities at Ball State Teach­
ers’ College sponsored a "Depres­
sion Bargain Hop.” The admission 
fee was 89 cents per couple.
The prize boner in a long list 
compiled by a CHICAGO UNI­
VERSITY professor was attributed 
to the co-cd who translated "Arma 
virumque cano” as "I cry for the 
arms of a man.”
A $600 yearly scholarship at 
YALE has bc6n vacant for thirteen 
years. The donor decreed that the 
holder must be a young man of 
gpod character and promise, and that 
his surname must be Leavenworth.
Drama Dept, to
Present Matinees
On Thursday afternoon,. May 19, 
at 3:30 o’clock, the fifth of a series 
of Studio Matinees will be pre­
sented in the Union under the di­
rection of the upper classmen in 
the Department of Drama. The 
students arc urged to attend, be­
cause these matinees have been 
planned to qffcr more dramatic,en­
tertainment for the student body.
Shakespeare’s “The Taming of 
the Shrew,” the current production 
of the department, is scheduled to 
run from May 25 through May 31 
in the Little Theater. During this 
time, the evening performances arc 
being given in modern dress under 
the direction of Professor E. W. 
Hickman, while the cast for the 
three matinees, under the direction 
of Mr. G. W. Smith, are dressing 
in the classic Shakespearian style. 
Three casts for the play have been 
selected.
It is expected that these two 
productions, running simultaneous­
ly, will afford students an oppor­
tunity of deciding whether or not 
they prefer Shakespeare done in 
modern or classical style.
SQUIRREL HILL 
BARBER SHOP
We Specialize in Ladies’ and 
Children’s Haircuts
HAIRCUTS 50c
5821 FORBES STREET
John Dauria, Prop. Hazel 9360
<L ¿flt*
3806 FORBES STREET 
STUDENT SUPPLIES
25 per ccnt off on all FOUNTAIN PENS over $5.00
DO YOU INHALE?
Certainly ? ? ?
7 out of 10 smokers inhale 
knowingly ...the other 
3 inhale unknowingly
DOyouinhale?Seven out of ten smokers 
know they do. The other three inhale 
without realizing it. Every smoker breathes 
in some part of the smoke he or she draws 
out of a cigarette.
Think, then, how important it is to b» 
certain that your cigarette smoke is pure 
and clean — to be sure you don’t inhale 
certain impurities!
Do you inhale? Lucky Strike has dared 
to raise this much-avoided subject . . . 
became certain impurities concealed in 
even the finest, mildest tobacco leaves are 
removed by Luckies’ famous purifying 
process. Luckies created that process. Only 
Luckies have it!
Do you inhale? More than 20,000 physi­
cians, after Luckies had been furnished them 
for tests, basing their opinions on their smok­
ing experience, stated that Luckies are less 
irritating to the throat than other cigarettcs.
“It’s toasted”
Your Throat Protection —against irritation — against cough
0. K. AMERICA
TUNE IN ON LUCKY STRIKE— 60 mo .em minuta with the world’s finest dance orchestras, and fa« 
tr.ous Lucky Striht news features, every Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday evening over N. D. C, networks.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MAY 17, km
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2608 
AFl’ER OFFICE HOURS CALL 
Editor In Chief-gEAaAva vMAAKNObbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbHAzNe 0478OaAaR TRafNOhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhIpCNAecr 2389
PEYeeACcR NAc« cmcOr mONpH REOaAo fCc pNeecoc rAAO Yr EApGNOKOleRElfjA Nl ,CAOAOjOac GAMfefEfN Nl wcpCANeNorh TAfcOcR GA fCN PefvYEOoC PNAf .llepN M ¦•pNARbpeAA* dAffcOh
THE STAFF
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF____
BUSINESS MANAGER- MANAGING EDITOR—PLAID EDITOR_______NEWS EDITOR-
„Harry D. Kolb -Edward Steiner -Mary Hauser
EXCHANGE EDITOR-
-Edward E. McDonald__________Nancy Sloan______Gertrude Novak
ASSOCIATE EDITORS 
Vincent McBride Zorclda Mazza Assignment Editor_Howard Maxwell
JUNIOR EDITORS 
Roy Grant Betty Prcller Julius Halpern Dolly Allison Harry Hower Rutli Phillips John Ladd Henrietta SteinbergChristine Leighou Marjorie DoughertyAlumni Editor-------Mary TownsendCartoonist----------------Edna Pearson
BUSINESS STAFF 
Junior Managers {$£“«* 
Assistant_____________W. Waldman
CIRCULATION STAFFManager______________W. Finglass
A. Pryce-Jones S. Feldman C. Chadwick J. Michclson E. Schleuskner
ATHLETICS
Editor____________J. MichaelsonWoman’s Editor—Elizabeth Lilley .... J. Bronson G. MyersAssistants j Jowcg f Halferty
PLAID STAFF
News Editor_______J. H. Sansonctti
H. E. McGannon Frank CasselA. N. Evan3
REPORTERS
HiltzDruryDancoffAdamsStankcyWilliamsonHenziCarrLivingston 
Kloos Cooper Shelley Breakstone 
. Schwarz Gamble S. Minnotte Conlin
R. Saxton #
J. Ritzel E. McCormick G. Rose S. Williams M. Griiiin E. Sherman J. Henderson 
P. Paulus T. Cacchione M. MalakoffA. Carnvale
B. MorcheadC. Mandross B. Cimmuto R. CohenA. Ladd
TYPISTS
Sylvia Lyons Ann WardenLucille Jacobs Ann KaufmanMarian McNary
Let The Signs Be Your Guide
Spring Carnival 
Pre - Thoughts
Among the many things to wear 
for ' Huy tiny* and tho Costume Ball
, , . lb« old Prep school re­
galia .... overalls .... night­
gowns .... pajamas .... kid 
rompern .... "stovepipe'' trousers 
, . . , where to get the best views
of . . . .the roller skate races. . . .
on the. terraces alongside of Art 
School . . . , the parade .... at 
Margaret Morrison .... at Ad­
ministration Hall .... from the 
Gym .... the Sweepstakes . . . . 
Gym terraces .... beside the 
Commons building . . . . at the 
lower ' end of the College of In­
dustries . . . what not to miss 
. . . Mary McKcon being officially 
crowncd Queen of the Festival 
. v . . Charlotte Rothrock and her 
dance in the Musical Revue . . . . 
the Dragons offering for your ap­
proval the Alma Mater . . . Har­
vey Collins presenting the cup to 
the v winner of the parade with an 
original speech .... the mad 
fight of the dormitory girls for 
those unique awards .... the 
“spirit of abandon” incited by 
thje hilarity of Heyday . . . seeing 
the person who will replace Joe 
Herbst on the Beta buggy and 
watching his actions .... Marshall 
Field and his boys from Cleveland 
.... Jack Bruce of Intersorority 
fame .... the calling of next 
year’s big men at the Qualifica­
tions exercises .... the Campus 
Cops handling the unusually heavy 
traffic in their unusually subtle 
manner .... reading this issue 
of the Tartan for all details.
Tartan Holds 
Banquet Tonight
This evening at 7 o’clock the 
Tni1 litn staff will hold its annual 
banquet in tho faculty dining room 
of tin; Carnegie Inn, At the con­
clusion of the .dinner the staff 
for next year will be appointed, 
and activities keys in recognition 
of two or four years' service will 
be awarded.
Among the guests invited arc 
two former editors-in-chief of the 
Tratan, Stewart Raison and Thom­
as Lippcrt, and Wilfred Worland, 
a former associate editor. Miss 
Eleanor Tallmadgc and Mr. Wil­
lard James from the News Bureau, 
Mr. Max Hantini, Publicity Direc­
tor of the Carnegie Athletic Asso­
ciation, and Dr. Nathan Miller, the 
author of “Seriously Speaking,” 
will also attend the banquet.
The members of the Tartan staff 
whose names appear on the mast­
head are invited to attend the 
banquet. The new staff which is 
to be appointed this evening will 
take charge of the publication of 
the three remaining issues of the 
Tartan this year.
Entire R. O. T. C.
Unit To March
President Baker to Make 
Student Awards
The entire R. O. T. C. unit will 
march in the President’s Review 
this Saturday morning during the 
Carnival Week festivities. Led by 
the Kiltie Band, the two battalions 
will march on the Cut for Dr. 
Baker’s' inspection.
Dr. Baker will make several 
awards to student officers. . One 
of these will be a saber, presented 
by the Veterans of Foreign Wars, 
to Cadet Colonel Willard C. Hol­
loway. Air. Holloway is president 
of Scabbard and Blade, R. O. T. C. 
¡honorary fraternity; The other 
awards will be a saber for the 
captain of the company winning 
tthe Competitive Drill held on May
Girls’ Glee Club
Elects Officers
The Women's Glee Club elected 
its officers for next year on May 
10 at the last meeting of the school 
year. Betty Davies was elected 
president and manager; Dorothy 
Rodgers, assistant manager; Lur- 
lcnc Williams, secretary; Catherine 
Gift and Agnes Holst, librarians. 
Dorothy Morse was re-elected stu­
dent director.
Evelyn Gamble is chairman of 
the .committee in charge of the 
Glee Club float for the Spring 
Carnival Parade. Ruth .McBnnc 
and Elizabeth Stcrrctts arc the 
other members of this committee.
19, and sabers for the two Cadet 
Majors, Miles A. Ivinlcy and Rich­
ard Smithcy.
For members of the R. 0. T. C. 
who will be present at the Pres­
ident's Review, this will be the 
final drill of the year. Roll call 
will be taken, and those not pres­
ent will be required to attend reg­
ular drill periods for the remainder 
of the semester.
In the recent inspection drill, the 
R. O. T. C. received a grade of 
“excellent" in the report submitted 
by General Malone of the Third 
Corps Area. This : rating is the 
highest that can be granted.
FROM THE FENCE
Fancy!
It never rains but it pours. On Friday, the 13th, Professor Hower treated the Physicists to a quiz of 13 questions in Room 113 of Engineering Hall. Wonder if any passed in spite of the multiples of bad luck omens? . . . The not-so-thorobred policc dog that has frequented the Art School recently was quickly overcome by the prevalent atmosphere. Three times already he has been caught sleeping in broad daylight and twice right in the middle of the sidewalk. Oh, to be carefree as that! . . . Several callous, coldblooded Engineers had the most fun the other day after a shower by seeing who could tramp on the most earthworms on their way across the cut.Allatime talking about somp- 
in’ good to cat! . . .* * * *
What Goes On Here?—
We see strange sights on the Kappa Delta Rho porch from time to time. One eve­ning we spied one of the boys sitting on the lap of another.On another occasion one of the lads was nursing a dog!Wonder what goes on inside the house?... Ed Steiner has 
lost his dog. “Has Anyone Here Seen Rover?" ... At a recent meeting ¿Jam Wicks and Harry Madsen fulfilled the requirements for admis­sion to the ^ Sigma Nu “Chump” Club. To be a mem­ber the candidate must drink a quart of straight milk with­out taking a breath. Cute, ch?.,* * * *
Blindfolded Love—
Last Saturday_ evening a truck load of active members and blindfolded pledges of Theta Tau stopped in front of the boys' dormitories. Dur­ing the unloading of the hu­man cargo along happened Gertie Boric (Sc. 9199) and “Blondcy” Brumbaugh (call same number) on roller skates. The process of romance was rapid, and withing a few minutes each of the blindfolded pledges, Harvey, Harrod, Clingerman, Burton, Fish, and Hunter, was proposing to a receptive maiden. Bob Fish was the third initiate to propose to Ger­tie. On bended knees he began:“Please, Gertie, if you’ll just imagine I am George 
North ..."Witnesses arc still wondering why Gertie gasped and ended the proposal right there.* * * *
On the Bulletin Board—
Side by eatlier, two notes as follows: “Lost—One
Here He Is!
VINCENT McBRIDE
Author of this column during tho proscnt 
school year.
slide rule. Please leave note in locker soandso.” And then: “For sale—One slide rule, practically new. Drop note in locker soandso.”* * * *
Harbingders of the Carnival—
Trick posters advertising the various events. As if they needed advertising! . . . The King and Queen riding around in state in their gray chariot. ...Rollers skating dark horses practicing under the cover of darkness. . . . Committees feverishly making last minute arrangements. . /. . Pat Patter­son pushing her scooter around in front of Laurel.-.A flock of girls home over week-end making the last visit before the end of school. ... Lazy days. ...* '* * *
A Summer' Sunday—
The benches in front of the men’s dorms were filled to capacity all day last Sunday. ... A detachment of cavalry paraded on Woodlawn avenue 'giving the public thrills and the horses a good hot work­out. . . . The streets around school were unsafe for motor­ists Sunday evening ’because of the scads of roller skaters 
loose. ... A woodpecker has been doing extensive excavat­ing in the tree on the steps 
to the Griii. The . chips and sawdust on the steps look as though a couple of cracker barrel sitters had been having a whittling contest. . . . ./****
The ^Worst is Yet to Come
We find ads in this paper of opportunties for college men as brush salesmen, and as magazine salesmen. Such will be the lot of plenty of Archi­tects, Engineers, and Plumb­ers. It will be back to the farm for many of us. Cut­ting the grass and keeping the car clean for manyothers. Oh, well, it might hatfe been worse, we might have never been to college. ...* * * *
Art Girls’ Frolic—
While the Sigma Nus did the big fraternitycavorting for the week-end and the D. U.’s had their customary picnic weather the Alpha Kappa Psi girls entertained Saturday eve. . . It seems that Betty Farrell has a ravishing new bathing suit. . . ••. Nancy Hascnwinkle. was dubbed “Our Dream Girl” and rather likes it.,. . . The. orchestra and the evening were so warm that several of the lasses ended up with a bit of apparel in .their,hand bags. . . .
CARNEGIE GIRLS 
TRY 20-CENT DIET
Plan Is An Experiment in 
Household Economics Dept.
Five Carnegie girls arc living on 
a 20-cpnt-a-day economy diet as 
an experiment in the Department 
of Household Economics. The 
girls, seniors in the department, 
are Marion Black, Frances Graham, 
Laila Ilcola, Elinor Kutchka, and 
Mabellc Steele. The experiment, 
which will last for two weeks, is 
nn attempt to determine how 
chcaply and how well a typical 
family can be maintained.
The menus, planned by Miss 
Glcndon, head of the department, 
consists of foods which may be 
served attractively and which have 
a high nutrition value and low 
cost. The marketing is done daily 
from carefully prepared lists, and 
an accurate expense record is kept. 
Even within this slim budget of 
one dollar a day, still greater econ­
omics have been introduced. One 
Jay, dandelion greens, gathered by 
the girls, provided the green veg­
etable for dinner. Left-overs arc 
incorporated into soup or hash for 
luncheon the following day. Some 
foods, such as eggs, tea, coffee and 
potatoes arc purchased in quanti­
ties to insure the most possible 
saving.
The' girls arc living in the prac- 
ticc house on the campus which is 
operated by the Department of 
Household Economics. In order 
that the experiment may be of real 
value, the girls arc living entirely 
on the planned diet. They have 
given up all eating between meals 
during the experiment. By doing 
this, they will be able to judge 
whether or not the 20-cent-a-day 
menu provides sufficient nourish­
ment. At the end of the two 
weeks, the girls will compare their 
weights with the one recorded be­
fore the experiment began.
The economy diet is arousing in­
terest as a possible recommenda­
tion of wholesome inexpensive fare 
for the needy, and as a practical 
help to families of moderate cir­
cumstances in preparing attractive 
and economic meals. The foods 
included in the diet are milk, but­
ter, eggs, cheese, cereals, bread, and
large amount of fresh or cooked 
fruits and vegetables. Milk is ser­
ved at all meals and very few 
desserts are included.
Puppet Will Be
On Sale May 24
The Commencement Issue of the 
Puppet, to be on sale Tuesday, 
May 2-1 at the popular price of 
fifteen cents, will be bound in a 
new cover of a more serious de­
sign. Through the efforts of the 
new staff, the entire make-up of 
the Puppet will be arranged in a 
different and very attractive form. 
The last of the series of “If I 
Were—’’ will appear in this issue, 
the title of. this one being “If I 
Were You.”
The staff members arc now for­
mulating plans for next year. In 
oVder to enlarge circulation, they 
arc initiating a contest in which 
the fraternities will compete as 
groups and the co-eds as individ­uals.
Commencement Booklets 
On Sale Next Week
The Commencement book­
lets for this year will be on 
sale during the lunch hours 
this week at the “Y” office, 
the Administration Building, 
or in Room 110, Margaret 
Morrisoii Carnegie College., 
The price of the booklets will 
be SO cents for the leather 
covered arid 25 cents ibr the 
cardboard covered. The pic­
tures and names of class of­
ficers will be included, as well 
as the names of the gradu­
ates.
Mortar Board has gathered 
the material for these book* 
lets, has edited them, and 
will sell them as part of the 
year’s service program. They 
will make no profit from the 
sale of these books.
‘Fifty Prints of 
Year” Exhibit At 
Institute Now
The, seventh annual exhibition of 
“Fifty Prints of the Year," spon­
sored by the American Institute 
of Graphic Arts at the Carnegie 
Institute of Fine Arts, opened Majr 
7, - and will continue until June 7. 
From two thousand . invitations 
mailed to recognizcd American 
print makers, these 50 prints have 
been chosen as a representative 
group of the finest print work of 
the year.
In tiie selection of this season’s 
prints, John Taylor Arms and Max 
Weber, representing the Conserv­
ative and the Modern, respectively, 
used the “Radio System,” devised 
to determine mathematically on a 
number basis how many of each 
of the two types of print can be 
accepted. The Radio S3rstem pro­
vides for two one-man jurors wjio 
select the prints of the school 
each represents, each juror being 
required to submit a print of his 
own.
Twenty-nine Conservative and 21 
Modern examples are the number 
divisions this year. The type 
printings are: lithograph, etching, 
drypoint, rotaprint, and aquatint. 
Two wood engravings, one aqua­
tint and mczzatint, and one print 
by paraffine process are also among 
the group.
After the closing in Pittsburgh, 
tho prints will be shown at various 
public libraries, museums, colleges, 
and print clubs in 60 cities through­
out the United States.
Dr. Baker Will
Receive Degree
The degree of Doctor of Science 
will be conferred upon President 
Baker by the Board of Trustees of 
Lafayette College at the Com­
mencement exercises of that col-, 
lege on June 10 at Easton, Pa. Dr. 
Baker has indicated that lie will 
attend the exercises to receive the 
dc'gree in person.
Dr. Baker received his A.B. from 
Johns Hopkins in 1S91, and the 
degree of Ph.D. from the same 
school in 1S95. The University ; of 
Delaware conferred the degree of
ARTS SORORITIES 
ELECT OFFICERS
Officers For Coming Year 
to Assume Duties 
Immediately
During the, past two Aveeks, the 
four sororities of the College of 
Fine Arts have elected their offi­
cers' for the coming year. In 
most of the sororities, the new 
officers will assume their duties 
immediately* and continue through 
next year. The, four girls who re­
ceived the presidency of their re­
spective sororities arc , . Maxine 
Pickarski ’33, Alplia Kappa Psi; 
Rosemary Saxton ’34, Gamma 
Gamma Gamma; Josephine Wardell 
’33, Beta Tau Lambda, and Rebec­
ca Williams ’33, Beta Pi.'
The list of the other, new offi­
cers is as follows:. Alpha Kappa 
Psi: Ruth Ebkcn, vice president; 
Margaret Jones, recording secre­
tary; Marjorie Glassburn, treasurer, 
and Betty Farrell, social chairman. 
Gamma Gamma Gamma: Charlotte 
Rothrock, . vice president; Louise 
McCain, recording secrctar}'; Mado- 
lin Vautrinot, corresponding sec­
retary; Harriet - Bcddow, social 
chairman.' Beta Tail Lambda; 
Mary I-Iolvcck, vice president; 
Florence Weaver, secretary; Rose 
Marie Grcntzer, treasurer, and 
Norva Iiectcr, social chairman. 
Beta Pi: Mary Hamilton, vice pres­
ident; Jean Douglas, recording , sec­
retary; Mary Jane Provost, corre­
sponding secrctarjr; Mary Rowles, 
treasurer, and Dorothy George, so­
cial chairrnan.
The newly elected representatives 
who will comprise..the Intersorori­
ty Council for the coming year are 
Iiulda Brierl}"- and -Helen Edmond­
son, Alpha Kappa Psi; Edna Pear­
son and Ruth Fackler, Gamma 
Gamma Gamma; Dorothy Auten 
and Evelyn Gamble, Beta Tau 
Lambda; Helen Fleming'and Ruth 
Meade,. Beta Pi.
New “Y” Cabinet 
Installed At Outing
John W. Ladd, John E. Sayles, 
and Richard A. Blair were install­
ed as President, Vice President, 
and Treasurer, •respectively,- -of the 
Carnegie student Y. M.- C. A. or­
ganization at the second annual 
outing of that group held May 6, 
7, and 8 at Cook’s Forest in Clar­
ion County.
A general “Y” cabinet, whose 
membership is composed of Joseph 
C. Bronson, Boyd C. Dennison, 
James N. Jones, Richard L. Jones, 
Paul J. Kirschner, John L. Ivron- 
cnberg, .Tra F. Kuhn, Josef L. 
Lentz, Albert E. Ralston, and Rob­
ert E. Robinson, was also installed 
at the outing.
LL.D. upon him in 1924, and Du- 
quesnc University conferred an 
ScD. degree in 1928.
First Church of Christ 
SCIENTIST CLYDE ST., PITTSBURGHSUNDAY SERVICES 
11 A. M. 8 P. M.Sunday School 11 A. M.
ALUMNI ORGANIZATION
vhvbC
C.WWTGT
sWjuuGsII.CGswG.u
coiLcae*n OauT s«wJ 
sWjvuG 
sII.CGswG.u
H.u.«s«DbHn
GTuT«sW
vCvgT«*
GuVjIw«GTI
C.WWTGT
ARYMcKsII.CGswG.u
TuGfuTT«Gule
C.WWTGT
sWjvuGsII.CGswG.u
EAONl boardJSEau erAeraCANNhc eiAmr n
ALUMNI
FEDERATION
yTVT«swG.u g0sPV 
cxicurivr BOOT •» nornATre*
3ÙÛÛÛÛÛBÛ
The above shows the organization of the Alumni Association at Carnegie and how it is affiliated with the clans in the various cities ,of the United States.
Seniors Urged To Enroll In Alumni 
Association Under Special Rates
Members of Federation Kept in Touch With School 
By Alumni Publication and By Tartan;
Seniors Invited to Dance
The Alumni Association of Car­
negie Institute of Technology this 
week launched its first annual cam­
paign for alumni membership 
among the seniors. Members of 
the graduating class from each de­
partment have been soliciting the 
seniors for membership.
According to the policy estab­
lished in the past 3'ears, a special 
rate of $2.00 is offered if the dues 
are paid by June 14, while after 
that date the regular rate of $3.00 
will become effective. Dues arc 
payable to the senior agents or at 
the Alumni Office, Room 206, in 
the Gymnasium, between the hours 
of 9 to 12 or from one to five 
o’clock.
With the help of the Alumni 
Office all alumni are kept inform­
ed of college activities on the 
campus. Payment of dues will en­
title members to receive the offi­
cial publication of the Federation 
and the Carnegie Tartan.
Furthermore the organization 
maintains the services of a full 
time secretary who is ready at all 
times to co-operate with the alumni 
problems. Mr. Clarence “Buddy” 
Overend, Graduate Manager of 
Athletics, is Alumni-Executive Sec­
retary, and Miss Andrew, Alumni- 
Office secretary. Affiliation with 
the Federation includes member­
ship to the Carnegie Tech Club of 
Pittsburgh, located in the heart 
of the business district, 421 Fifth 
avenue. Seniors are invited to 
visit the club, which serves as 
an ideal meeting place f6r Tech 
men in the Pittsburgh district.
Each year as a special feature 
of the campaign one of the four
alumni associations sponsors a dance 
for the seniors. This year, the En­
gineering Alumni Association will 
give the dance which is free to all 
seniors. Will' Ryshanek’s orchestra 
will play for the dance which will 
be held in Thistle Hall, May 28, 
from 9 to 12 o’clock. Tickets may 
be obtained at the Alumni Office 
in the. Gymnasium.
President Baker has made the 
following statement concerning 
alumni membership: “I wish to
urge upon the members of the 
graduating class of 1932 the desir­
ability of joining, immediately the 
Alumni Association. The Carnegie 
Alumni Body now numbers more 
than six thousand. It is a splendid 
group of energetic men and women 
whose influence throughout the 
country - is becoming every year 
more potent.
“Over the entrance to the Com­
mons a bulletin board has been 
erected to indicate the progress of 
the campaign in the four colleges. 
Competition for the largest mem­
bership has always been interest­
ing and the senior representatives 
are urged to report to the Alumni 
Office frequently so that the bulle­
tin board may be kept up to date.
“The advantages of feeling of 
solidarity among all Carnegie grad­
uates are obvious though it is ad­
vantageous not only to the institu­
tion itself but also to each in­
dividual alumnus. It is therefore 
most fitting that each man and 
woman should ally himself im­
mediately with the Alumni Federa­
tion and work with his fellow 
graduates for the advancement of 
Carnegie."
INTERCOLLEGIATE CLIPS
Women are certainly not welcome 
in activities at the JOHN HOPKINS 
UNIVERSITY. The undergraduate 
student council at that institution 
last week passed a rule to the cffcct 
tliat in the future no woman will 
be permitted to hold membership in 
any activity on the campus. This 
move was taken following objections 
from activity heads, students, alumni, 
and faculty members to the election 
of a co-ed as cdifor-in-chief of the 
Black and Blue Jay, campus maga­
zine.
When the president of the UNI­
VERSITY OF UTAH announced 
that the wearing of corsages would 
be barred at the junior prom, several 
girl students obtained an injunction 
against the prcxy to prevent him 
stopping them from wearing the 
flowers if the}' so desired—and re­
ceived them to Wear. Nevertheless, 
when the prom was held, onty three 
or four girls appeared with corsages.
On April 17 the Daily Cardinal, 
student newspaper of the UNIVERS­
ITY OF WISCONSIN, celebrated its 
fortieth birthday by publishing a 100 
page newspaper. In it was,. repub­
lished some of the gossip of the 
past. Excerpts from the paper are: 
“John Bacon, ’97, is down with 
the measles.”
“Lady students will find Prof. 
Schimmel’s. classes well conducted.” 
“A young man was fined $5.42 in 
municipal court this morning for 
riding a bicycle on the sidewalk.”
Two theological students at the 
UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS turned 
bandit in order to acquire money
B1NGAMAN STUDIO, Inc.
Distinctive Photographs
Special Discount to Students 
5853 FORBES ST. Hazel 6476
A
C. S. EDMAN
Printer
6470 Monitor Street 
Ä
enough to continue their studies for 
the ministry. They received .five 
years in prison instead of the D. D.
An English professor at CORNELL 
UNIVERSITY informed his class 
that he had discovered an essay 
which has been copied word for 
word from the preface of a text­
book not used for that class. With 
utmost severity he ordered the of­
fender to see him after class, adding 
that he would omit the merition of 
his name in the classroom' if the 
student presented himself. After dis­
missal of the class, he found .him­
self face to face with no less than 
five of his students.
The medieval system of permitting 
the citizens of a town vto gather and 
publicly exam a student- was recent­
ly revived at ST. PETER’S COL­
LEGE in Jersey City. I^ive honor 
students, who had completed special 
subjects in Greek and Roman litera­
ture, were called upon to show their 
fitness by answering questions ad­
dressed to them by members of the 
audience.
CLUB NOTES
Eta Kappa Nu;
The Carnegie chapter of Eta 
Kappa Nu, National Electrical En­
gineering Honorary, held its sec­
ond semester initiation and banquet 
in the Venetian Room of Webster 
Hall on Saturday May 14, at 4:30.
The following two juniors re­
ceived their final initiation into the 
organization; David Grosshandler 
and Curtiss Jackson.
Morris L. Carr, the founder of 
Eta Kappa Nu, at. the University 
of Illinois, was a guest and speak­
er at the occasion.
Eta Kappa Nu will hold a regu­
lar meeting today at 11:30, in 
Room 106, Machinery Hall. The 
officers for the coming year will 
be elected at this time.
Tau Beta Pi
Tau Beta. Pi, engineering honor­
ary fraternity, held its initiation 
banquet last Thursday evening at 
the Schenley Hotel. Mr. Kohl of 
the Civil Engineering department 
acted as toastmaster, and intro­
duced Doctor Rittman, Professor 
Trinks, Professor Thomas, Profes­
sor Blaisdell, Dean Ih^ig, Mr. Lau- 
son Stone of the Jones and Laugli- 
lin Steel Company, and Mr. Tliiess 
of Chicago..
The new initiates are: Mr. Stone, 
who was elected by the chapter at 
Purdue University, from which 
school he is a graduate; Anthony 
Carnvale, ’33, Alpha Phi Delta 
social fraternity; Robert Hutchin­
son, ’33; Edward McCandless, ’33; 
Robert Smith, ’33, Kappa Sigma 
social fraternity; Wilfred Uffclman, 
’33; and Earl Warrick, ’33.
An interesting sidelight happen­
ed when Mr. Stone and Mr. Tliiess 
met for the first time in twenty- 
seven years, not recognizing each; 
other, although they lived in the 
same . fraternity house at Purdue, 
and graduated in the same class.
Although these men have 'been 
initiated, they will be called again 
on Tap Day as a matter of form.
Scalp and Blade
At the recent meeting of thij/.; 
Scalp and Blade, Buffalo HonoraT\V-'v 
Fraternity, held Tuesday May l|f, -> 
the following officers were elected 
for the coming year: President,
Jack Delaney; vice president, Gor­
don Muckier; secretary-treasurer, 
Alfred Bryce-Jones.
Jack Delaney, a junior in the de­
partment of Electrictl Engineering, 
is a member of the Kappa Dcl\a 
Rho social fraternity and also a, 
member of the Puppet Staff. C 
don Muckier, also a junior : 
Department -of Elcctrical Eng 
ing, is a member of the Sicrrr 
social fraternity. Alfred 
Jones, a sophomore in the Depart­
ment of Electrical Engineering, is 
a member of the Phi Kappa Psi 
social fraternity. He is also a 
member of the Tartan Staff. The 
retiring president is Jack Kronnen- 
berg, a junior in the Department .. 
of Printing and a member of the 
Beta Theta Pi social fraternity.
Scalp and Blade is now making 
preparations for the annual call 
which will be made during campus 
week. and for social events to b<r 
held during the remainder of tlid 
school year. A» June outing will 
be given by the Graduate! Chaptcf 
in Buffalo at which the [brothers 
of the various chapters 'and .«-the
alumni will hold their ann 
vcntion.
lal
Students Interested in Sum­
mer Employment Meet in 
Y. M. C. A. Office 
Wednesday 4 P. M.
SALARY—BONUS — 
TRAVELING EXPANSES
CASH PAID FOR l|JSED 
TEXT BOOK
Whether Now Used Here“ or Not
GEORGE A. PILLSB/URY
63d IVY STREET VS3DA YM17PITTSBURGH, PA.
Peoples- 
Pittsburgh 
Trust Co.
Oakland Branch
Forbes & Meÿran
OFFICERS
C. B. AYLESWORTH----Vlca P<
R. J. MILLER---------------VleePre:
Ch ih THuG_____sKMfh Vapc P
F. W. COTTON----Aast. Vice P
O. C. YOUNG_________Asst. Tr
ADAM ROSCOE_______
BOARD OF ADVISE
C. B. Aylcsvrorth 
James B. Clark 
John Dlmlin?
ffm, E. Benswanger 
J. Rojrcr* Flann 
L. H. Gethoefer .
C. H. Kcrr
J. O. Miller 
R. J. Miller
John G. Pttr 
A. B, She
MEMBER FEDERAI 
RESERVE SYSTEM
t
VI
