The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 84, Number 7, November 1, 1983.
Marijuana dealing
Students caught with drugs
Competence questioned
Doctor criticizes Security
By CHRISTOPHER JOHNSTON
Tartan Associate News Editor 
On Friday, September 17, three freshman 
started their weekend at ZBT, but ended it in 
the Emergency Room of Shadyside Hospi­
tal. One of the students was barely breathing
In this issue
Editorial
Student EMT’s can help.....................page 2
News
Fringe withdraws funding request. page 4 
SUPA conference................................page 4
Features
How to make love” lecture..............page 7
Entertainment
Connery’s Bond is back...................page 11
New Lab play ...................................page 14
Sports
I artans best Spartans.....................page 15
(¦MU makes pearls, not oysters . page 19
when the Security van arrived at the hospi­
tal because the 24 shots of Jim Beam whis­
key he drank in 24 minutes at ZBT had 
suppressed the center in his brain that con­
trols breathing. What could have endan­
gered the situation more, an anonymous 
source charges, is that Security transported 
the student laying face down in the van.
After receiving an anonymous letter at 
the Tartan several weeks ago, we con­
tacted Dr. Kielman, the physician at Shady- 
side Hospital emergency room, who treated 
the three students in the alcoholic incident.
"Normally when someone is having diffi­
culty breathing, you want to lay them on 
their back for two reasons,” said Kielman, 
“One is so that you can observe the patient 
better, another has to do with anatomical 
reasons. If you lay someone on his back and 
his head extends a little bit, it opens the 
airway up, so they can breathe better.”
Kielman isn’t sure whether or not CMU 
Security was negligent in transporting the 
students. “I don’t know what level of train­
ing these people have in terms of knowing 
what to do with someone who is medically 
continued on page 6
Crecine comments on ZBT
By PAULINE WEN
Tartan News Editor
Vice-President of Academic Affairs John 
P. Crecine has upheld Dean of Student 
Affairs Braden Walter’s final decision in the 
ZBT case. ZBT’s fall pledge class is valid; 
however, the pledges can not be initiated 
until ZBT is recognized again as a fraternity. 
ZBT’s status will be reviewed over the 
summer of 1984.
ZBT’s appeal was based on their claim 
that they were not guilty of gross miscon­
duct, according to Crecine. He also said they 
attempted to claim that they acted in a 
manner consistent with the University alco­
hol policy and that the problem was with 
the alcohol policy and not with them.
In a letter to the Zeta Beta Tau fraternity, 
Crecine said: “In this case, it is difficult to 
pinpoint any single action on the part of 
ZBT that led to a Camegie-Mellon student 
being placed in a life-threatening condition 
due to complications arising from alcohol 
poisoning. To do so misses the point. It is 
the enure complex erf events that is at issue 
here — the planning and advertising of a 
party featuring hard liquor, served undil­
uted, to young, inexperienced drinkers 
(freshman rushees), in surroundings clearly 
designed to encourage over-indulgence on 
the part of some guests, then a failure to 
intervene when someone in bet did grossly 
over-indulge. At any of several points, from 
planning the party, to, say, the tenth shot 
taken, there was ample opportunity for reas­
onable action on the part of one ByC more of 
the members erf ZBT. Had any of these 
opportunities been seized, there would be no 
incident and no occasion for disciplinary 
action. While it is difficult to say whether
the damaging event was the 15th or the 20th 
drink or the decision to hold a “Jim Beam 
party” at all or advertising the "record 
number of shots drunk by a freshman” at 
the party, taken together these events add to 
a most serious offense. Indeed, the only 
worse offense I can imagine nearly occurred.
“A most serious incident did occur and I 
see no reason why ZBT should not be 
required to assume primary responsibility 
for it. ZBT established the conditions, 
implicitly or explicitly encouraged a person 
to nearly drink himself to death, and then 
observed the process. That no one intended 
the outcome is obvious and not particularly 
relevant.”
Although the final appjeal board consists 
of President Richard Cyert, Dean of Student 
Affairs Braden Walter, and Crecine, both 
Walter and Cyert asked to be relieved of the 
case. Cyert was out of town; Walter would 
not participate in the appeal of his decision.
ZBT would not comment.
UFO President Bill McCormick called 
the incident “unfortunate.” He commented, 
“It condemns the fraternity system more, 
than it should.” McCormick went on to say, 
“The fraternities support the administra­
tion’s position. [The punishment] was a lit­
tle on the harsh side but not unreasonable.”
As of October 12, the following terms still 
stand:
1) Effective immediately, Carnegie- 
Mellon University withdraws recognition of 
Zeta Beta Tau as a fraternal organization for 
the remainder of the 1983-84 academic year. 
This action includes no participation in 
Greek or student activities including Greek 
Sing, Greek Swing, IM’s, Spuing Carnival, 
continued on page 6
By CHRISTOPHER JOHNSTON
Tartan Associate News EditorOn Friday, October 21, a CMU under­graduate was expelled from the University for selling marijuana. In an unrelated inci­dent, another student was arrested and 100 pounds of marijuna seized by Allegheny County narcodcs agents at the Greater Pitts­burgh International Airport.The expelled student refused to be inter­viewed, but a source has gleaned the follow­ing information, which has been confirmed by the administration. The student was
0 reported to the security office by another
V student with whom he had been smoking 
marijuana. Security then notified the hous­ing office. Assistant Director of Housing and Residence Life, Gerald Marks, and an area coordinator escorted the student to the Dean’s office.At the office, Deans of Student Affairs Brad Walter and Lois Cox, and Chief of Police Robert Fadzen presented the student with the charge. The student admitted to selling marijuana and cooperated fully ^throughout the investigation. Fadzen, one officer, and Marks escorted him back to his room and confiscated his marijuana. Other details of the arrest aren’t clear — how the student was identified as a drug dealer, unless he was caught in the act of selling drugs. The amount of marijuana found in the student’s room wasn’t spjecified.The decision to expel the student fell on the shoulders of Walter, who nodfied the student a day later. The administration didn’t turn the student’s name over to the Pitts- ’ burgh Police. Walter stressed that the Uni­versity takes drug abuse very seriously and will not turn its head when it discovers that a student is selling drugs.
The modves of the student who reported the expelled student are also unclear. The student refused to be interviewed and claims to know nothing of the situation. Appar- endy, the student thought that he had been
given either some substance other than 
marijuana, or marijuana laced with more 
dangerous drugs. He thought that he was 
overdosing and went to the security office. 
The marijuana is alleged to have been Sensi- 
milia, which is the unpollinated female 
flower bud of a marijuana plant. These 
buds have a high concentration of tetrahy­
drocannabinol (THC), the chemical that 
causes the euphoric state, and could have 
caused the student to feel “too high.” It is 
also alleged that the student may have also 
accused the expelled student of dealing in 
harder drugs and stolen stereo equipment. 
Walter agreed that this accusation is false, 
and that the expjelled student was dealing 
only in marijuana.
Fadzen doesn’t think that the expelled stu­
dent’s drug business was widespread. “It 
wasn’t exacdy a drug bust. He was a heavy 
user of drugs, and had distributed some on 
campus. We turned the information over to 
the Dean of Student Affairs.”
The administration has taken no action 
against the student in an unrelated incident 
that occurred at the airport. A CMU student 
was arrested at the airport freight dock and 
charged with possession, criminal conspi­
racy, and possession with intent to deliver 
100 pounds of Jamaican marijuana. The 
exact wrorth of the shipment w'asn’t speci­
fied. The illegal substance had been stuffed 
into nine carved wooden heads and shipp)ed 
from Jamaica to Miami, and then to 
Pittsburgh.
The student was released on $1,000 bond, 
but refused to comment on the situation 
until after the preliminary hearing today at 
1 p.m. in the district magistrate’s court. 
Allen R. Gochnour, unaffiliated with 
CMU, was arrested at his Highland Park 
home in relation to the case. He was charged 
with drug possession, trafficking, and crimi­
nal conspiracy. He was released on $20,000 
bond and is also ordered to appear at today’s 
preliminary hearing.
Running back Joe Vasalani helps the Tartans run over #4 ranked Case.

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
Students can help police with emergencies
The Campus Police have a useful resource 
available to them — student EMT’s.
Emergency Medical Technicians are people 
who have been trained in first aid and rescue 
work who work on ambulance crews. Right 
now police officers serve this function here. 
There are several reasons for letting student 
EMT’s help.
Currendy the Emergency Medical Service, a 
student organization, has an EMT on call with 
Campus Police. Soon they will be able to reach 
two members immediately. But they aren’t 
being called. According to members of EMS, 
the group has received two calls from Campus 
Police this semester, although they received
several last year.
Six of the student EMT’s have had over a 
year’s experience on an ambulance crew, and a 
part of their training was a three-month proba­
tionary period during which they went on 
about 300 calls each. The whole of Campus 
Police might have 300 serious calls a year. 
There just aren’t enough calls on campus for 
the officers to remain experienced and on top 
of things.
The tables seem to be turned in terms of 
experience; in this case, it is the students who 
currendy work on the local ambulances, and 
thus they are more experienced than many of 
the officers. Sometimes the officers just take on
too much, and they should either call on the 
student EMT’s or the city ambulance service. 
Since CMU likes to keep things internal if 
possible, the former is reasonable.
Finally, consider the job of the Campus 
Police officers. Urey are here to protect the 
campus; if several are on medical escorts, the 
remainder of the force must cover for them. 
Officers would be better able to protect the 
campus if they sent one officer and two student 
EMT’s when possible.
Student EMT’s are a valuable resource for 
Campus Police. We encourage Campus Police 
to involve them.
Nuclear war would take out civilian centers
By Jeff A. Suzuki
The subject erf this week’s column is 
rather morbid, but also very important to 
our lives and such stuff. The subject is 
nuclear warfare.
Recent polls show that high 
school students (read: future 
CMU students) are much more
I concerned about the possibility 
erf the end of civilization than ever before. 
Perhaps it has been brought home to them 
by a generation erf living under the threat of 
nuclear war; perhaps other reasons are 
responsible.
In any event, I doubt that there are many 
who will dismiss nuclear war as a distant 
probability, or perhaps as an impossibility.
And I think that the issue is close to home; 
Pittsburgh will probably be a target in case 
the button is pushed.
There will be other targets, of course, and 
this brings to mind the question of, “what 
are the targets?” The U.S. government does 
not routinely publish lists of target sites, for 
the main reason that anyone can get hold of 
such lists, including the Kremlin, confirm­
ing what they had guessed or knew offhand 
about our soft spots.
Using reason and rational means, one can 
easily make educated guesses as to where the 
SS-20’s and such will hit. Fairly educated; 
don’t sell your home or anything drastic on 
the basis of what I say — it’s not guaranteed. 
But I hope I can give you some idea of what
the most likely targets will be.
There are two and only two basic target 
typjes. They are military targets and civilian 
targets (oh, great). The civilian targets 
include centers of government, while the 
military targets include the missile silos, and 
so forth.
The primary military target in the entire 
United States is a moderate sized town on 
the Eastern seaboard called "Washington 
D.C.” Interestingly enough, it is more 
important than people think it is. It is the 
primary command center of the U.S. mil­
itary, and is also the primary civilian com­
mand center, making it a double prize.
Of course, Washington D.C. is not the 
only military command center in the United
States; in case it is destroyed (and, in a 
nuclear war, it is very probable that it will 
be) there are secondary command posts. I 
know of two; doubtless there are many 
more.
The first, and older, is Strategic Air Com­
mand, in Omaha, Nebraska. It was envisi­
oned as far back as World War II, and, as far 
as I know, it needs to be reinforced. It can no 
longer be of much importance in the 
nuclear age, though it is still capable of 
being a command center.
SAC is built four stories underground, 
under a series of reinforced concrete, blast 
doors, and extensive protection. It was 
designed to withstand the best weapons of 
continued on page 9
Reagan and Soviets use same censorship methods
By Stuart Shapiro
Writing about Lebanon or Grenada 
would be just too easy. Besides, plenty has 
already been and will continue to be written 
concerning events in those two little slices of 
heaven. On the other hand, 
insufficient attention is being 
paid to a couple of less spectacu­
lar, but in their own quiet way 
equally chilling, goings on elsewhere.
What’s going on is two serious threats to 
freedom of spjeech and press here and 
around the world. One threat is germinat­
ing within the United Nations. The other 
originates within the White House.
One week ago, on the first day of the 22nd 
General Conference of the United Nations 
Educational, Scientific, and Cultural 
Organization (UNESCO) in Paris, the 
Soviet Union called for "a new world infor­
mation and communication order.’’ What 
that translates into is government control 
over the flow of news and information all
over the world. In other words, the Soviet 
Union, along with some developing 
nations, is making a serious effort to impose 
its own perverted notion of journalism on 
the rest of the world.
The draft resolution introduced at the ses­
sion calls on member countries to “ban the 
mass media for building up world tension 
and disseminating tenacious and slanderous 
messages that sow the seeds of alienation 
and enmity.” Political control of the press is 
the phrase those less schooled in the art of 
obfuscation would use. Although 
UNESCO has no legal power to regulate the 
press, an endorsement of the kind of interna­
tional propaganda apparatus the Soviets 
seek will undoubtedly encourage them and 
those of like mind to do whatever they can to 
turn George Orwell into a prophet. That 
includes the blacklisting of correspondents 
or even erf entire news organizations that fail 
to deliver propaganda rather than news. 
The idea of an international press corps
modeled along Soviet lines is positively 
frightening.
Meanwhile, back at the ranch, the Reagan 
Administration has been doing its bit in 
support of suppression of free spieech. Last 
March, President Reagan signed a national 
security directive designed to stem the imagi­
nary tide of government secrets flowing out 
of Washington. This directive attracted very 
little attention initially. It has attracted 
somewhat greater attention since its impli­
cations became clear.
Those implications are that 113,000 fed­
eral employees could be forced to submit to 
polygraph examinations at any time for any 
or no reason and, once they left government 
service, would be required to clear speeches 
and articles about classified topics for the 
rest of their lives. It means government cen­
sorship and intimidation on a scale that 
would make the Soviets proud.
When Republican Senator Charles 
Mathias inquired about the supposed flood
Bicyclists cause danger to pedestrians
By Nate Solano
A concern which plagued me in my first 
three years at CMU has recently elevated 
into a full-fledged atrocity. I speak erf course 
of the fiendish entity sometimes referred to 
as the two wheeled terror, the 
schimano slaughter, or more 
simply, the bicycle menace.
Our interbuilding walkways 
barely support pedestrian traffic (thanks to 
those who see fit to gather in group* on the 
walkways to talk — I’ve noticed these are the 
same pjeople compelled to gather on the first 
flcor of the library to talk) yet the bikers 
come roanng through, screaming obsceni­
ties at those protecting their pedestrian right 
of way.
I he problem, as if you hadn’t guessed, 
lies in administration policy. In short, they
install bike racks on campus to attract the 
biking minority and they do this because 
they hate us.
If you don’t buy that argument, try this 
one. God made winter and snow to kill 
cyclists. Therefore cycling is morally wrong.
But some may whine, “my apartment is 
too far away to walk from.” I can empathise 
with this argument because I drive to schcol, 
but you don’t fear my Dodge’s running you 
over (at least when you’re on campus walk­
ways). Nor is my roommate compelled to 
weave his motorcycle through the ranks of 
the walking dead when he comes to campus.
With respject to moped riders, you have no 
dignity anyway so why bother?
I present no solution to this problem 
because it would involve possible violence 
and my conscience would not permit that.
I will be in my office this week Wednesday 
from 3:30 to 4:30 p.m. and Thursday from 8 
to 9 p.m. I hope your Halloween was scary. 
With love and honor, Nate
More opinion on pages 9, 20
Opinion Policy
Editorials appear at the top of page two, and are the 
official opinion of The Tartan Editorial Board. 
Columns are the opinions of individual authors who 
are usually on The Tartan staff, but the opinions are 
not necessarily those of The Tartan Editorial Board. 
Letters to the editor are opinions of individual authors 
who are usually members of the University commun­
ity. A letter intended for publication must be signed and 
include the writer’s address and phone number for 
iierification. Names will be withheld upon request. Ilif Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject any 
letter.
of security violations, the State, Defense, and | 
Justice departments were hard pressed to I 
come up with more than one instance I 
between them within the last five years. 
There is absolutely no justification for this 
directive. Even if there was, it would in no 
way lessen the appalling nature of this £ 
effort.
continued on page 3 |
TheTartn.
Editor in Chief...............................Monica GellioManaging Editor...........................Gregg BossierBusiness Manager.......................... Kathy WaschNews Editor.....................................Pauline WenFeatures Editor..........................Pauline KramerEntertainment Editor......................Susan PetrieSports Editor........................................Ric MedrowPhoto Editor.....................................Mike PilewskiProduction Manager.............Carolyn SperanzaAd Manager.....................................Bonnie TopfTypesetting Manager......................Patti CarlisleArt Director..............................Michael SussmanContributing Editor..................Vincent GuintoAssoc News Editor .... Christopher JohnstonAssistant News Editor......................Doug BlairAsst. Features Editor........................Don EggertAVVT Sports Editor...............Christopher LewisAsst Production Mgr. .....................Bob AarhusAsst Ad Manager..........................Andrew GhaliHanifiwk..........................................Tara DieguezSubscriptions........................Dana PottenbergerBusiness Assistant............................Karen TylakProduction Staff: Peter Bain, Scott Boric, Neil Greenblum, Michele Reisinger, Maria Rivas, Scott Safier.
Copyright © 1983 by The Tartan. The Editorial Board reserves the right to withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Editorial Office* Skibo 50, (412) 578-2111. Business Offices: Skibo 52, (412) 578-2112. 24 hour phone, (412) 578-21 IS. Mailing address: Box 17, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh PA 15213.Funded by the Activities Fee.AH rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

November 1, 1983—The Tartan—Page 3
Letters:
Abortion ignorant, evil
Editor
This letter is in response to Wendy Scott’s 
column on abortion published in the 
October 11 edition of The Tartan.
Abortion is treated as right or wrong 
because it involves an absolute— the taking 
of life. In this society of permissive liberal­
ism and individualism to the extreme, there 
has been a frightening avoidance of 
acknowledging absolutes. Abortion is 
wrong. It is the taking of what cannot be 
conclusively denied to be human life.
No matter how much humanity one tries 
to disguise abortion with, it comes down to 
selfish interest. For the woman who cannot 
raise a child, for whatever reasons, there is 
the alternative of adoption. The inconven­
ience and discomforts of pregnancy remain, 
but they are the consequences of her initial 
choice to engage in the act which is intended 
to result in pregnancy.
The pleasures of intercourse are impor­
tant but they are not the primary goal of sex. 
The profound beauty of sexual intercourse 
transcends the temporal giving and taking 
of physical and emotional sensations and
rests in the spiritual mystery of the creation 
of life. Pregnancy may be a physical burden, 
but it is a spiritual grace.
The woman who has an abortion to 
reduce a threat to her own life is very similar 
to a woman who, when threatened by some­
one with a gun, thrusts her child in front of 
her for protection. It is never absolutely 
determinable whether a woman’s life will or 
will not survive bearing a child. To risk 
losing one’s own life in the hope of preserv­
ing another life is a choice many women 
have made. That is the gift of life. God gave 
us this gift as a man. We cannot deny that 
any human does not possess the strength to 
make that choice.
No one can categorically judge any per­
son evil, but women who choose abortions 
are performing an ignorant and evil act. 
People always have another chance though, 
and the most we can do, which is a great 
deal, is to keep learning and to keep trying 
always.
Judith Kurland 
Art ’87
0. £ M ARI HEZ
T?ECR</»T»A/$ C6NTER
Senior gift is not meaningless; editorial is libel
Editor
This is in response to the editorial you 
wrote asking for a “meaningful” class gift, 
which was obviously written without 
benefit of the facts. As chairman of the 
Senior Class Gift committee, I would be 
glad to inform you of facts surrounding this 
year’s gift.
Whether or not you care that the Class of 
1981 gave the benches in front of Skibo, or 
that the Class erf 1982 gave the directory, 
these items are used daily by members of the 
campus community and are valuable addi-
tions to our campus. As for the campus 
clock donated by the Class of 1983, it is still 
being designed and manufactured. This 
year’s Senior Class Gift committee decided 
to recommend a “non-physical” gift, such 
as a scholarship or an event, because it is 
longer lasting than a physical gift which can 
become vandalized or outdated.
After discussion among the committee 
members, we proceeded to poll the senior 
class with leaflets (at the Career Placement 
seminars for seniors) and through a phona- 
thon. Through our leaflets and phonathonArts and sciences changing
Editor
The question for CMU to ask is this: why 
did the computer scientist, Douglas R. Hof- 
stadter, turn to such a wishy-washy disci­
pline as philosophy of mind to satisfy his 
curiosity about data structures? When Hof- 
stadter wrote Godel, Escher, Bach why did 
he employ allegory and metaphor so freely? 
Shouldn’t a serious scientist adhere more 
rigidly to rational methods of inquiry and 
exposition?
It seems to me that if Hofstadter can gen­
erate useful ideas then who can complain 
about his methods? He isn’t hurting 
anyone. Furthermore, if he can spread his 
ideas to a wider audience by speaking 
through more popular, poetically satisfy­
ing, forms of expression, isn’t he in effect 
developing his ideas even further, through a 
kind of incubation in the collective web of 
discourse?
Hofstadter’s critics are industrial era 
thinkers who cannot help their religious 
adherence to that era’s rigid forms of science 
and professionalism. It is too bad they can­
not see how wide-spread the effects are 
becoming on human thought and behav­
iour as we shift from an economy based on
heavy industry — predicated on simple 
assembly-line production and linear 
thought patterns — into more complex, 
weblike industries: high technology,
human services, and communications.
Can CMU also sense the changes that are 
occurring in the arts? For decades now the 
mechanical tremors erf industrialization 
have ebbed from the imaginations of artists, 
resulting in a dissolution of a few dominant 
schools of thought: functionalist architec­
ture, formalist painting and sculpture, and 
serial music. A respect for the varieties of 
human expression has ensued, giving rise to 
all manners of figuration, romanticism, and 
lyricism.
As both the arts and sciences take on a less 
mechanical quality, and as computers and 
communications become central features in 
our culture, new metaphors emerge for our 
times: Out chugs the machine and in 
streams the network, the computer, and the 
psyche. May CMU curricula reflect the 
kinder humanism that may emerge from 
this change.
Ebon Fisher 
Class of 1982
we asked the seniors if they had any sugges­
tions for the gift. The responses we received 
from seniors showed 49% in favor of the 
scholarship and 49% for the event The com­
mittee is in the prexess of making the final 
decision, but is currendy leaning toward an 
annual event at Homecoming sponsored by 
the Class of 1984. Since Homecoming week, 
as it stands now, doesn’t seem to include 
students, we feel that a party to “kick off” 
Homecoming would build student spirit, 
and would include the Class of 1984 when 
we are alumni.
As for having seniors foot the bill every 
year, that’s ridiculous. The format for fund­
ing the event or scholarship is to place the 
donations in an endowment and work with 
the interest every year. The fund would not 
be exhausted in a few years because the prin­
ciple is not touched. To build this fund we 
are suggesting a pledge as follows: $10 by 
June 1985, $40 by June 1986, $50 by June 
1987. Furthermore, seniors who make a 
pledge to the 1984 Senior Gift will not 
receive requests for a gift to the University as 
a whole until after they have paid their 
pledge.
You claim that our ideas are “particularly 
wasteful erf money.” A scholarship would
help decrease the growing cost erf education 
for one student. The Homecoming party 
would add a little more life to this campus, 
something the majority of the people on this 
campus continually complain about. In 
addition, your suggestion to create a “Stu­
dent Union Fund” is unrealistic. The past 
two years’ Senior Gifts totaled $5$00 and 
$13,300 respectively. We have a goal of 
$15,000 for this year. This is far short erf the 
millions erf dollars necessary to build a Stu­
dent Union. Putting the money in a Student 
Union Fund to be used when enough 
money is raised would mean our gift would 
not be put to good use for many years.
Thus, your editorial in the October 18 
issue was a farce. You have a position of 
power as the writer of the most widely read 
editorial. Your writing of that editorial 
before checking any erf your facts is irrespon­
sible and unacceptable. I expect that you 
will formally apologize to the Senior Class 
Gift committee for your libelous editorial.
Michael N. Gottfried 
1964 Seram- Gift Chairman
We feel that an annual “event” would not be 
a good use of the senior gift money, and we 
will not apologize for our opinion. — Ed.
Senior class project forms
Reagan abuses freedom
continued from page 2
Fortunately, Congressional action will 
almost certainly freeze enforcement of the 
directive for the time being. But it is alarm­
ing that the Reagan administration appar- 
endy sees no conflict between democracy 
and secrecy. Ronald Reagan may yearn to 
get government off the backs of the people, 
but government behind the backs of the peo-
ple doesn’t seem to trouble him anywhere 
near as much.
For at least once in his life, Ronald Rea­
gan has something in common with Soviet 
leaders. Both have launched insidious 
attacks on fundamental freedoms.
Stuart Shapiro is a graduate student in 
Applied History and is a columnist for The 
Tartan.
Editor
Remember the Junior Class Project Com­
mittee that organized and sponsored the 
student-faculty luncheons? They’ve recon­
vened this semester and changed their name 
to the Senior Class Project Committee. The 
committee is compromised of the two Deans 
of Student Affairs, Brad Walter and Lois 
Cox, and nine seniors: Leila Abdu, Karen 
Dougherty, Lex Kavoulakis, David 
Lechner, Jeff Link, Mary Rosnick, Laura 
Sabadell, Becky Sikora (chairperson), and 
Pat Schmitt.
They are continuing some erf the projects 
that they started last year, and have come up 
with a few new projects. One project that 
was organized last year but never material­
ized, because Mother Nature didn’t co­
operate, is the Snowday Party. On the day of 
the first big snow this winter, posters will 
appear all over campus announcing the 
party. Also, a big flag will be hung from the 
window of Dean Walter’s office in Warner 
Hall. The party will be at 4 pm, on the
afternoon of that day, on Flagstaff Hill in 
Schenlev Park. Trays and plastic sheets for 
“traying” will be provided, as well as free 
hot chocolate. All students, faculty, and 
administration are encouraged to attend. As 
the weather gets colder, keep a look out for 
the Snowday signs. Cross your fingers for 
snow this year.
The committee is also working on CMU’s 
second annual student-faculty luncheon. 
However, this year they would like to make 
it a dinner. This event will be for seniors and 
the faculty. It will be organized for next 
semester. There will also be a senior dinner - 
dance in mid-January.
The committee is open to suggestions and 
would like to hear your ideas. If you have 
any you would like to share, please call one 
of the following people or contact any com­
mittee member
Dean Lois Cox & Dean Brad Walter. 
x2076
Becky Sikora: 681-0426
Laura Sabadell

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—The Tartan—November 1, 1983
Income security debated at SU PA conference
“We in the United Steelworkers of America 
are exceedingly proud of the past accomp­
lishments of our union in the field of 
income security. We believe that the assorted 
plans ... have made an immeasurable con­
tribution to the well-being of individuals, 
families and communities.” He further 
stated, “If one’s purpose is to seek out the 
culprits responsible for our society’s failure 
to sustain economic growth and prosperity, 
one must search, in my opinion, in other 
areas.”
Request withdrawn
The rapid increase in technological 
advances is one such area that was looked 
into. “As machines become more complex, 
more productive and more expensive, peo­
ple gain importance as their managers, their 
attendants, and their maintainers,” accord­
ing to Fischer. As to the continuing growth 
in the use of robotics and computers, it is 
often stated that as this replaces labor, new 
jobs will arise in the service sector. “But 
enough work and decent jobs?” inquired 
TheNwespa he rofp C
No senate funding for Fringe
By JEFF HENDRIX
Tartan Staffwriter
The Center for Labor Studies, an affiliate 
of the School of Urban and Public Affairs 
(SUPA), held a two-day conference, Monday 
and Tuesday, October 24 and 25, to discuss 
the issue of income security for our nation’s 
work force. The conference was held in the 
Wherrett Room of Skibo Hall and brought 
together some of the nation’s top labor- 
management experts.
The Center for Labor Studies was estab­
lished on July 1, 1982, for the purpose of 
addressing issues of managing human 
resources and improving the effectiveness of 
labor-management relations.
The chairman of the Center is Otto A. 
Davis, the William W. Cooper Professor of 
Economics and Public Policy at CMU. The 
Center’s director is Ben Fischer, who has 
formerly served as the assistant to the three 
presidents of the United Steelworkers of 
America Union, and is now adjunct profes­
sor erf Labor Relations and Public Policy in 
SUPA.
This was the second annual labor confer­
ence held by the Center for Labor Studies. 
The first conference dealt with the related 
issue of “Labor Relations and Tomorrow’s 
Technology.”
An in-depth analysis was presented in the 
conference paper which was written by Dr. 
Edward Montgomery, assistant professor of 
economics at CMU and a Federal Reserve 
Board visiting professor.
Ben Fischer delivered the keynote address 
for the conference. As to a definition of 
income security, he stated, “Income security 
for members of the private work force can be 
provided in two ways -- through steady 
secure jobs or through assuring income, 
regardless erf available work.” Fischer 
implied, “The best system is a real guarantee
of permanent job security.”
However, income security in the sense of 
guaranteed jobs is a relatively new develop­
ment brought on by the current recession. 
In this aspect, Fischer stated, “During the 
affluent 60’s and 70’s, the emphasis on 
income security was a logical response to 
occasional layoffs and isolated 
dislocations.”
Lynn Williams, International Secretary, 
United Steelworkers of America, substitut­
ing for Lloyd McBride, International Presi­
dent, expounded on this aspect, saying, 
“Critical elements in the income security 
package, such as supplementary unemploy­
ment benefits, were never intended to over­
come fullscale economic recessions. Their 
purpose was to meet the needs of our 
members who were heavily impacted upon 
by relatively short and temporary cycles of 
difficulty.” Fischer was in agreement with 
this, stating that income security “becomes a 
questionable device when unemployment is 
extensive and prolonged.”
Attacking the related issue of unemploy­
ment from the management side of the coin, 
Charles Parry, the Chairman of the Board 
for ALCOA, stated, “Unionism, as we have 
known it for more than half a century, 
through its very success, has contributed in 
varying degrees to the decline in jobs in our 
basic industry.” He added, “While our econ­
omy was steadily growing, our basic indus­
tries could afford to pay bigger wage 
packages and an ever-growing array of 
benefits.” Now, due to the effects of an eco­
nomic recession, he concluded that, “We are 
disadvantaged by non-competitive U.S. 
labor rates, which are causing us to lose 
market shares to countries with wages con­
siderably below ours.”
In response to the allegations against the 
integrity of unionism, Wiliams responded,
By PAULINE WEN
Tartan News Editor
Fringe has withdrawn its request for Stu­
dent Senate funding, it was announced in 
last week’s Senate meeting. Fringe was 
formed 14 years ago by a group of architects; 
to date its only University involvement has 
been through the buggy races, held during 
Spring Carnival.
Fringe has been self-supporting so f?r, but 
they have encountered many financial prob­
lems. Both Scott Durbin and Pete Comey, 
Fringe Buggy chairmen, had to use part of 
their personal savings to fund buggy last 
year.
Comey explained that they withdrew 
their funding request for slightly political 
reasons. “Some competing organizations 
felt that we were getting an unfair advantage 
and were obviously disturbed.” He also 
explained, “It’s difficult [for us] to account 
for expenditures [as Student Senate requests] 
because we get it any way we can. It is diffi­
cult to get a receipt for everything.”
Both Comey and Durbin are graduating 
next year and want to strengthen Fringe’s
base. They stressed that Fringe is now open 
to everyone.
“We need numbers,” said Comey. “We 
want to be able to do booth and to partici­
pate in the Activities Fair. We want full time 
involvement with the University.”
Fringe will reapply for funding in the 
next few weeks. “If funding is possible, we 
will try again,” said Comey.
Last week’s Senate meeting also included 
approval of the 1984-1985 school year 
calendar. Cindy Taylor, new chairman of 
the Academic Affairs committee, spoke 
about the Academic Response Program 
(ARP); in the previous Senate meeting. Jon 
Maiman had announced his resignation as 
chairman of Academic affairs committee in 
a letter read in Senate. Senate also passed the 
Finance committee’s budget, from which 
Fringe’s $445.00 allocation was deleted. 
Senate election hours were set for 8:30 am to 
8:30 pm on Tuesday and Wednesday, 
November 15 and 16; fall petitions are due. 
by 5:00 pm, November 1 at the Skibo Infor­
mation Desk. Senate finished with discus­
sion of a Student Senate happy hour.
ÆKtm
*
THE
NATIONAL 
COLLEGIATE 
+ DRIVING 
rAMPIONSHIPS
IS COMING/
u can drive the revolutionary 1984 Dodge jytona Turbo through a real rally track set up on campus. All students with a valid driver's license and student I.D. are eligible. FREE of charge. The winner from this campus will be 
flown to Daytona Beach. FL to compete in the National Championships for a total of over $20.000.00 in prizes!
Win the use of a 1984 Dodge Daytona Turbo for one year.
I Sponsor 
; Location 
i Dates
newNpa gioNpieo- MifoewloNwhe 
Uhipvhha toiywef ,hN 
Ppa b u1si5 2h3 V b m 
C tU 8 44 tUTimesI OfficaM rules a/axabte at m« competition site Mo purchase necessary
Ooclgc
Supported in safety by
An ujjiAmerican ItJ Revolution
FREE SOFT DRINKS WILL BE SERVED AT THE EVENT COURTESY OF
DONATION: 50C Proceeds to 
Benefit Charity
ATTENTION 
MOREWOOD 
LOT USERS
the three sections of the lot furthest 
from the building will be closed to all 
vehicles on Nov. 2nd and 3rd from 
5:00 p.m. to 11:30 p.m. in conjunction 
with the UFO-sponsored charity event.

---------------------------------------------------

November 1, 1983—The Tartan—Page 5
Crecine holds ZBT fraternity responsible
TheNwespa 7ih9 rofp 4
Sweepstakes and/or any other activity 
involving UFO sponsored events.
2) ZBT is not permitted any open parties 
this provision explicitly prohibits “blanket 
invitations” to social events held in [the] 
current residential facility.
3) ZBT may continue to occupy the cur­
rent residential facility at 1071 Morewood 
Avenue in a dormitory style and may con­
tinue to serve meals.
On Wednesday, October 19, all three 
major Pittsburgh television news stations 
ran stories on the ZBT incident. The Asso­
ciated Press (AP) also carried the story on the 
October 19th newswire. That Wednesday, 
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette had a story on ZBT, 
as did Thursday’s (October 20) U.S.A.
Today. According to one CMU student, her 
parents also saw an article on the incident in 
the Philadelphia Inquirer.
Apparently, the Post-Gazette got the story 
first after a reporter read the story in the 
Tartan. AP obtained the story from the Post- 
Gazette; the TV news, as well as U.S.A. 
Today and the Philadelphia Inquirer, got 
the story from the AP newswire.
Interviewed by both Channel 4 and Chan­
nel 11 news were Crecine and McCormick. 
Crecine used the official University state­
ment to answer questions about the inci­
dent. He commented afterwards, “It’s 
already having bad repercussions.”
When asked why they ran the story, Chan­
nel 4 said it was “definitely an interesting 
story.” They also said that they do several
Race for driver safety
By PAULINE WEN
Tartan News Editor
Real life sports car racing will come to 
CMU in the form of the National Collegiate 
Driving Championships next week. The 
race will be held in the Morewood Parking 
Lot on Wednesday and Thursday, 
November 2 and 3 from 6:00 p.m. to 11:00 
p.m. It is being sponsored by the National 
Safety Council, Sports Car Club of America, 
and the Chrysler Corporation through the 
United Fraternal Organization (UFO). All 
proceeds will be given to the Coalition for 
Addictive Diseases, which deals with drugs 
and alcohol abuse.
To enter, one needs a CMU ID and a 
drivers license. A 50 cent donation is also 
requested. The cars, 1984 Dodge Daytona 
Turbos, will be provided by the Chrysler 
Corporation. Free soft drinks will be supp­
lied by 7-Up. The National Safety Council
will hand out literature and show films 
promoting safe driving throughout the race.
The course will involve two laps around a 
figure-8. The person with the fastest time by 
Thursday night will win an expense-paid 
trip to Daytona Beach, Florida over Spring 
Break to compete in the National Cham­
pionship event. The National Champion 
will receive a $5000.00 scholarship and the 
use of a Dodge Daytona for one year.
UFO’s job will be to provide 80 man- 
hours of labor (five hours for each fraternity 
and sorority), to publicize the event, to help 
set up the course, and to help with crowd 
control. The $250.00 given to them to help 
do this will also go to charity.
The purpose of this event is to promote 
safe driving for college students. UFO Presi­
dent Bill McCormick hopes to see a big 
turnout.
stories on problems associated with drink­
ing that occur with peer pressure in fraterni­
ties. “We felt it would be of interest.”
Commented Crecine on the whole inci­
dent: “Some member [of the Faculty Senate] 
feel strongly that the current alcohol policy 
is not appropriate. My own view [is that it is] 
impossible to design a policy that is approp­
riate for all circumstances. What we really 
want a policy to do is to encourage and 
support responsible behavior on the part of
Statement Concerning
The University views the incident involv­
ing alcohol abuse at a party held at ZBT 
fraternity most seriously. The University 
views this unfortunate incident, which 
occurred on September 17 and involved a 
CMU student and a CMU student organiza­
tion, as an internal matter and has acted 
accordingly. The fraternity in question is no 
longer functioning as a fraternal organiza­
tion at CMU. At a minimum, the suspen­
sion will last for the remainder of the 
1983-84 academic year.
At Camegie-Mellon University, we do 
not attempt to regulate the behavior of our 
students, faculty, or staff in any great detail. 
This approach is, we believe, consistent 
with the very nature of a university and
all members of the University community. 
We can’t be a policeman. We want to 
encourage both personal freedom and 
responsibility. I hope everyone will come to 
their senses.
“[I think] we will see constructive changes 
in the administration’s way of dealing with 
fraternities [and] end up with a much 
stronger fraternity system, something posi­
tive to come out of this very unfortunate 
incident.”
ZBT Drinking Incident 
assumes that all members of the university 
community are mature and reasonable. 
This assumption is nearly always valid. In 
the extremely rare case in which this 
assumption does not hold, the University 
will take appropriate action.
The incident involving ZBT was a rare 
and isolated incident. We are grateful that 
no permament injuries resulted. WTe are 
extremely pleased by the constructive and 
cooperative attitude that has been displayed 
by the CMU fraternity system and are confi­
dent that they are taking every step possible 
to insure that nothing similar occurs again.
John P. Crecine 
Senior Vice President for Academic AffairsCatalogs to be on-line
By MICHAEL HEANEY
Tartan Staffwriter
Plans to computerize the university 
catalog are rapidly nearing completion. 
The target date for the introduction of the 
new catalog to the Dec-20’s is November 17, 
which coincides with the week of spring 
course selection. The catalog and the soft­
ware for scanning it, will be among the first
projects developed specifically for the ITC 
personal computers when they are intro­
duced this summer. It will be the first uni­
versity catalog to be so widely accessible by 
computer.
The switch to an electronic catalog is 
intended primarily to aid in the course selec­
tion/advising process. The electronic 
TheNwespa he rofp C
©
PATTY ANDREWS
of th# ANDREWS SISTERS 
w/
GEORGE GEE and his
MAKE-BELIEVE BALLROOM ORCHESTRA
The Sheraton 
Station Square 
Sunday 
nov. 13 1983 
CONCERT
DANCE
8p.m.
tickets available
$15 door 
*12 advance
Kaufmanns 
Opua One 
Club Anomymous 
S ouvenirs
soon to be released
the MAKE -BELIEVE 
BALLROOM ORCHESTRA’S
;
first album
Custom Designed Hairstylesthat only look expensive!
Our professional stylists know that to custom cut your hair the way you want, they 
must listen to what you want. That's why at Great Expectations you H leave 
with the style you had in mind at a price you can afford 
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED
PRECISION NO PERMS FOR
HAIRCUT APPOINTMENT ALL STYLES
(ANY LENGTH) $25.00
$12.00
(WASH-CUT -BLOW -STYLE)
Stutd 
ensca Tua, Wed. 1*7 
Thun., Fri. IM «7-ÄÜ
S*. *4 NO APPOINTMENTS
UNISEX HA» SALON
257 
Aerai «he

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—The Tartan—November 1, 1983
Area doctor comments on hospitalization
TheNwespa 7ih9 rofp 4
ill. I don’t know if they have received para­
medic training,” said Kielman, but added, 
“I understand there was an incident that 
occurred several years ago about someone 
who they found in very dire condition that 
they transported here and should have called 
the paramedics about. As a result of that, 
they were supposed to receive some para­
medic training.”
A doctor who chose to remain anony­
mous indicated that Security officers are pres­
en tly learning Emergency Medical 
Training, but Kielman feels that Security 
could have better dealt with the situation if 
they had called the Emergency Medical Ser­
vice. “They should be trained just to the 
extent that they can recognize when some­
one is no trouble, so they can deal with it 
themselves if they’re trained to do such,
which I don’t think they are at this point, or 
call the paramedics.”
Chief of Security, Robert Fadzen is satis­
fied with how Security handled the drunken 
freshmen. “They cleared his (the student’s) 
passages at the scene. The first man on the 
scene was an E.M.T. From the time they 
found him, to the time they got him into the 
van, there were two occasions where his 
respiration stopped. They cleared his air­
way, and got him breathing again. When 
they got him there, they had to clear his 
passage again.” Fadzen isn’t sure how the 
freshmen were laid in the Security van, but 
he went on to point out that Security’s fast
transportation to Shadyside Emergency 
Room was crucial.
Kielman thinks that the situation involv­
ing the three students was serious and said 
that if the van hadn’t arrived at the Emer­
gency Room in another five minutes the stu­
dent would have been dead. “I don’t want to 
get up on my podium and tell the people at 
CMU not to drink. I went to college myself 
but you have to be careful about these things 
like alcohol consumption contests, which I 
believe that he was involved with. Of all the 
easily available drugs you can abuse, that is 
probably the most dangerous. You can’t die 
from a marijuana overdose, but you can die 
from alcohol.”
Income security debated
The flag on the cut has flown half mast since last week to honor the dead in Beirut and Grenada.
TheNwespa 7ih9 rofp .
Williams. He also expressed a fear that such 
technological advancements, coupled with 
the current economic developments, will 
lead to a “polarized society,” thus causing a 
more prevalent necessity for unions as was 
the case with the onset of the industrial 
revolution.
Other thoughts for the future included 
the consolidation of labor management and 
government into one collective bargaining 
unit. Parry disagreed with this concept, stat­
ing that “In the best interest of the United 
States, income security through jobs should 
be provided primarily by the private sector.” 
He further added, “It is unwise for society to
BUILD YOUR OWN HOME COMPUTER
GENERAL COMPUTER IS REDEFINING 
THE STATE OF THE ART IN HOME COMPUTERS
We’re looking for talented computer scientists and electrical engineers work­
ing towards their Masters Degree with experience in the following areas:
• Microprocessor Programming
• Peripheral Interface Design• Single Chip Microprocessor Design
Computer Graphics 
Digital Circuit Design 
Video Game Programming
General Computer is a small, innovative organization dedicated to developing 
successful consumer electronic products. We will be on campus Monday, 
November 7th. If you are interested in any of these exciting opportunities 
please contact your career placement office. There are still positions available 
on our sign-up schedule.
GENERAL COMPUTER COMPANY
215 First Street Cambridge, MA 02142 
We are an equal opportunity employer
promise income security through welfare 
programs, stating, “An economic structure 
such as ours is capable of providing income 
security to its people if, and only if, we can 
provide jobs for all of our citizens who are 
able to work.”
A general agreement among those present 
at the conference was as Williams stated, “It 
is of such vital importance that we move on 
from the concepts of income security ... by 
making them less necessary as we search for 
ways in which employment can be 
achieved. ” On this point labor and manage­
ment agreed, as Parry concurred, “ ... if job 
security can no longer be guaranteed by the 
old formulas, then we must develop new 
ones - ones that will allow us to be more 
flexible and competitive to provide jobs, 
and, thus, income through a healthy 
economy.”Catalogs
TheNwespa 7ih9 rofp 0
catalog will be able to be easily updated as 
degree requirements and the course prereq­
uisites change. The catalog’s usefulness will 
double when it is introduced on the per­
sonal computers where it will not be ham­
pered by high loads or system crashes. In the 
future the new catalog may be used together 
with a program already available for can­
ning student records. This would give advi­
sors quick access to a wide variety of 
information useful in counseling students. 
Another added bonus of the new catalog is 
that it will probably more than pay for itself 
in reduced printing and production costs of 
the current hardcopy version. The conven­
tional catalogue will still be printed every 
two years though.
The text of the new catalog will be basi­
cally identical to the current version, but the 
method of using it will change gready. 
Instead of paging through the catalog or 
relying on the index, students will be able to 
call a particular piece of information, a 
course description for instance, directly to 
the screen. The catalog will be organized so 
that after each topic a “menu” erf related 
pieces of information appear as options. 
This system of associating related subjects, 
already used in the help system for EMACS, 
will make finding information easier. The 
few simple commands needed to use the 
catalog can be explained in a one or two 
page handout.
PREGNANT?
And you didn't mean to be?
For a free pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call
Birthright at 621 -1988

---------------------------------------------------

Features
Lecture on love: "she's got two arms also”
By GREG CAMPBELL
Tartan Staffwriter
Did you ever want to make love to a 
woman? All you guys out there are probably 
saying, sure, sounds fun. But do you know 
how to make love to a woman? According to 
Michael Morganstem, author of the best­
selling book How to Make Love to a 
Woman, most men don’t. When he says 
making love, he is not talking about sex, 
although I’m sure that is what most of the 
people who showed up at his lecture last 
Thursday thought (including me). But 
Morganstem is more interested in what goes 
on in a relationship besides sex. This man is 
preaching romance.
He says it was during the seventies that 
love lost its romance. All anyone wanted, he 
says, was sex. But now people are tiring of 
all that sex (they are?) and they want some 
romance back in the relationship. The prob­
lem though, is that men and women have 
forgotten how to make romance.
With the changing attitudes toward 
women in the last ten years, many men have 
become confused as to how to act toward 
members of the opposite sex. Should a man 
open a door for a woman, or will she take 
that as a sign of inferiority? Should he hold 
the chair for her in a restaurant, or will she
be offended? Men are still trying to use the 
same romantic techniques they used 10 or 15 
years ago, only the women of today aren’t 
the same. What is needed is a new approach
— the Morganstem theory.
He calls it his “she’s got two arms also” 
theory. What he means is this: a woman can 
open the door for a man in the same way 
that a man can for a woman. According to 
Morganstem, “women want romance back,
but they want the attitude to change... they 
want more equality.” It’s an easy enough 
theory to follow, and I’m sure most men will 
agree with it, but how should men go about 
using it?
Morganstem himself admits that it is still 
up to the man to make the first move, 
women just aren’t taking the initiative. 
“Women still expect the man to make the 
first move,” he said. “If the man doesn’t
make the first move, nothing will happen.” 
So, from his point of view, men are really 
stuck. They want to let women make the 
first move, but most women won’t
Morganstem’s approach, then, puts some 
of the weight on the woman’s shoulders. He 
says that women have to take part of the 
responsibility for the romance. They should 
let the man know what they think, because 
some men don’t know what to do; they 
aren’t sure what women want. And women 
shouldn’t be afraid to take the initiative. 
According to Morganstem, “Most men like 
it when a woman takes the initiative, they 
feel flattered. And they are beginning to 
accept it more and more.”
Because of his two-sided approach, Mor- 
ganstem’s book might better have been 
titled How to Make Romance to Each 
Other. Whether or not everyone agrees with 
his approach, most people will admit that 
his intentions are good.
One comment he made served to sum 
up his lecture: “The last 10 years have been 
all technique, and the romance end erf it has 
been put aside. It’s time to put more empha­
sis on romance. Only two percent erf the 
time is spent in bed, so it’s the other 98 
percent of the time which should be worked 
on.”
Investment Group purchases beer stock
By E. MACLEY GEARHART
Special for the Tartan
On Thursday evening, October 13, the 
Investment Group approved the purchase 
of common stock in two companies, ISC 
Systems and G. Heileman Brewing, traded 
on the New York Stock Exchange.
ISC Systems designs and manufactures 
financial work stations for use in financial
institutions. The group felt that with its 
systems, ISC had future growth potential, 
and the stock’s present price per earnings 
ratio of 18 makes the stock inexpensive in 
comparison with its competitors. The one 
concern, however, is that in order to achieve 
its expected growth, ISC Systems must cap­
ture the commercial bank market. ISC’s new 
product, The Pinnacle, is an attempt to
accomplish this. With this in mind, the 
Investment Group voted unanimously to 
buy 50 shares on ISC System stock at the 
market rate of 14% points per share.
G. Heileman Brewing is the fourth larg­
est brewery in the United States, with brands 
such as Pabst, Olympia, and Rainier. Heile­
man, a fast growing company, has acquired 
five breweries in the last six years, including
Alliance to show missile model
By NANCY ADELSTEIN
Tartan Staffwriter
Nuclear arms - how much do you know 
about them? This week, the 5th through the 
11th, you can leam the facts.
The CMU Peace Alliance is sponsoring 
an educational program on the arms race 
during which there will be presentations,
GSO relief:
BR fall fest 
this Friday
By JIM OSBORN
Special for the Tartan
Attention Grads! Has October got you 
down? Need a break from grading, teaching, 
and labwork? Sick of staring at a terminal? 
Help is on the way! Put down your pencils 
and pick up your beer mugs.
The GSO is preparing for the first CMU 
NOVEMBERFEST!! We’ll have authentic 
German libations for you drinkers and real 
Prussian polkas for you dancers. They’ll be 
enough hot pretzels, cold brews, and Alpine 
souvenirs for all, so bring your officemate 
(or a friend). It all happens Friday, 
November 4th at 9 p.m. in the Ballroom. 
Pick up an advance ticket from your depart­
ment representative for $2. Prices at the door 
will be $3.
In addition, we can always use another 
pair of hands to set up, clean up, and make 
preparations. Your help is really needed and 
it also gets you in for free. Contact Murray 
Campbell at x3074 for more details about 
manpower.
discussions, and movies occurring through­
out the week, highlighting the many aspects 
concerning nuclear weapons.
The Peace Alliance will set up informa­
tion and literature tables along with a model 
of the new euromissile, the Pershing II, in 
Skibo and other areas. And if you want to 
voice your opinion, there will be the oppor­
tunity to write your congressman.
This program is the group’s first erf the 
year. For the past three years, the CMU
Peace Alliance has met to discuss nuclear 
arms and the situation in Central America.
Members Andy Hisgen and Dan Rosen- 
blum say that the Alliance is very serious 
about educating the public. Especially with 
recent military actions in which the United 
States is involved, knowledge erf nuclear 
arms is critical.
Their next regular meeting is being held 
on November 2nd, at 5 p.m. in Skibo room 
12. There’s also a meeting on November 
16th, same time, in Skibo room 45.
photo by Sieve Winawer
Just when you thought the sun was an endangered species, it made a weekend-long 
appearance to warm the students and shine on the buggy drivers, who, incidentally, are 
beginning those tormenting early morning freeroll runs.
Pabst. Heileman’s main markets are in the 
South and West, two of the fastest growing 
regions in the nation. The Investment 
Group voted in favor of purchasing 25 
shares of Heileman stock at 43*4 points per 
share.
In addition to the purchase of ISC and 
Heileman, on Monday, October 17, 100 
shares of Warner Communications stock 
were sold by the Investment Group at a price 
of 22% points per share. The group had 
decided that the continuing loss of Warner 
Communications revenues, the uncertain 
future of the video game, and personal com­
puter industry all warranted the sale of 
Warner Communications.
Prof attains 
excellence
McCandless resident Michael P. Weber, 
associate professor of history at CMU, has 
received the Ryan award, the university’s 
highest award for excellence in teaching.
A member of the CMU faculty since 1972 
and director erf the university’s graduate stud­
ies in history since 1976, Weber has taught 
and published widely in the areas of urban 
history and the ethnic experience in 
Pennsylvania.
He is a co-author of the recent book, 
“Lives of Their Own,” which compares the 
experiences of two generations of Poles, 
Blacks, and Italians who migrated to Pitts­
burgh between 1900 and 1960.
He is also an editor of the forthcoming 
book, “The Spencers of Amberson Avenue,” 
a tum-of-the-century memoir about life in 
Pittsburgh.
At present he is preparing a biography erf 
former Pittsburgh Mayor David Lawrence.
Correction
The Tartan wishes to apologize few the 
outcome of the “Hill St. Blues interview” in 
the Oct. 11 homecoming supplement. In addi­
tion to typing errors, the Bosson Bexhco 
segment should have begun with the Tar­
tan’s question to Bosson about her attitude 
toward Fay, her character. This portion was 
accidentally inserted at the conclusion of 
their interview.

---------------------------------------------------

funded by your ACTIVITIES FEE
C^'

---------------------------------------------------

November 1, 1983—The Tartan—Page 9
More opinionTechnology god of war, sex, family relationships
By Wendy Scott
Here at CMU we have quite a love affair 
with technology, as even a child can see. 
Recently though, I have come to realize that 
it is not only here at CMU that technology is 
worshipped. In fact, American 
society as a whole bows down to 
this glittering god.
Even President Reagan genu­
flects before the altar of high-tech. 
Remember the so-called “Star Wars” 
speech? That’s when Reagan described the 
missile deterring satellites he plans to use as 
part of our defense system. The view of our 
government and possibly of the Soviet 
government as well, is that technology will 
eventually save us from destruction. The 
more missiles we build, the safer we are. 
Surely this in fact a religious attitude - we 
believe in technology; have faith that it will 
deliver us from the threat of nuclear 
holocaust.
Technology is not only our god of war,
our Ares. It is also our Venus. The technol­
ogy of sex has become a multimillion dollar 
industry in America. First, consider the 
plethora of “how-to” books. In general, they 
amount to little more than instruction man­
uals; a sophisticated version of “insert tab a 
in slot a.” Then of course there are the “How 
to Save Your Marriage” books and articles, 
you know: The Total Woman and “How to 
Fight With Your Mate.” These present a 
system, a formula, which, if applied to your 
marriage, are guaranteed to produce results, 
whether the formula involves greeting your 
husband after work wearing nothing but 
saran wrap, or being sure to fight with him 
every eight days; the underlying assumption 
is the same: marriage, sex, relationships in 
general need a technique in order to func­
tion properly. Funny isn’t it, how we often 
evaluate our relationships using the terms of 
economic productivity: “making marriage 
work”, “having productive economic pro­
ductivity”, “being invested in a person”.
Missiles target on iCBM sites
TheNwespa 7ih9 rofp V
World War II (which meant chemical 
bombs; atomic bombs were too expensive 
and too difficult to make to be of much use 
tactically), and would make some showing 
up against modem nuclear weapons. Still, 
as has been said, it would not come up too 
well.
The other command center I know about 
is in Colorado Springs and is called 
NORAD *- North American Air Defense. 
That was designed and built during the 
nuclear age, and is designed to stand up 
against strategic nuclear weapons. Its con­
struction is similar to SAC, but with many 
more precautions.
I believe there is also a continually air­
borne command post, whose location is 
only known to the pilots of the airplane, but 
I cannot confirm it. If anyone out there does 
know of anything like that, please inform 
me.
These command centers, in and of them­
selves, are nothing. It is the same situation 
with a general without an army; they 
require tools. They are the brains of Ameri­
can defense, but without the tools, they are 
nothing. The major tools are the Minute- 
man and Titan lCBMs, located in various 
sites throughout the United States. These 
have the instantaneous strike-back capabil­
ity; they can be launched within a few min­
utes’ notice, and need no further guidance. 
We also have the rest of our “triad,” the 
airborne bombers and the submarines; but
they both launch missiles, too.
Where are the ICBM sites located? 
Obviously, the most reasonable choice of 
location is to put them where there are few 
people to interfere with the sites or for the 
missile to interfere with. There are two main 
regions associated with missile sites:
1. The American Northwest, somewhat 
inland: areas of Wyoming and Montana 
primarily.
2. The American South: Arkansas has a 
number of sites and bases.
The official tally of American land based 
ICBMs is 1043; one thousand Minuteman 
III missiles, and 43 Titan ICBMs. This tally 
does not include the submarine-launchable 
missiles, or the airplane launched missiles.
These are the probably prime military 
targets; how about the civilian targets? Is 
there any way of determining those? After 
all, we face a certain restriction and limita­
tion on military targets — missile bases and 
command centers will end up hurting us if 
they’re not destroyed immediately. But how 
can a city hurt you? It definitely can’t move 
and flank you.
Yes, but there is a philosophy which 
states, “cut off the head, the body will die,” 
which can be interpreted as, “if you kill the 
leaders, you’ve got the society.” This will be 
an obvious guideline to fifty targets: the fifty 
state capitols.
At this point, I might add three more 
targets which may or may not be hit; I think 
TheNwespa he rofp VO
Women's 
Health Services.
• FREE PREGNANCY TESTING
Oakland—Rm. 212, 3520 Forbes Ave. 
Downtown—3rd floor, 107 6th St.
• ABORTION SERVICES
• BIRTH CONTROL & GYNE CARE
For Your WHS SURVIVAL KIT, Fill Out & Mail Coupon To: 
Women's Health Services, 107 6th St., Pittsburgh, PA 15222 
Telephone: (412) 562-1900
WHS Survival Kit
Name
Street. 
City .State_Zip
College (if student) -----------------------------------
Majl to: WHS, 107 6th St.. Pittsburgh, PA 15222
Parenting is another area of life to which 
technology' has been indiscriminately app­
lied. Books, articles, and therapists abound, 
each with their own formula for being an 
effective parent. Their vice ranges from 
encouraging strict disciplinary measures to 
telling the parent to basically allow children 
to raise themselves. Don’t get me wrong, I 
know plenty of parents and plenty of mar­
riages need help. I am merely trying to show 
that most solutions and therapies amount to 
little more than a formula into which we are 
encouraged to plug our own unique situa­
tion. Reducing relationships, whether 
between husband and wife, parent and 
child, or one friend to another, to a universal 
technique or system is inaccurate, simplis­
tic, and potentially harmful. I believe this is 
a problem because we see technology and 
technique as our saviors so we apply them to 
areas such as relationships, where their 
application is inappropriate, and technol­
ogy has even been applied to everyday con­
versations. Eric Be me, Thomas Hams, and 
others have given us transactional analysis, 
a formula for understanding conversations
which comes complete with diagrams. 
These psychologists have transformed a few 
basic Freudian principles into a self-cure 
technique, and finally here at CMU, tech­
nology worship has been taken to its logical 
conclusion by the psychology department. 
Obviously this is happening elsewhere as 
well. CMU doesn’t have a monopoly on it. 
I’m talking about cognitive psychology; the 
modeling of human thought processes from 
computers. According to the cognitive psy­
chologist we are just little computers pro­
cessing chunks instead of bits.
Emotions, motivation, all are ignored by 
the cognitive psychologist as he studies man 
the computer. I’m sure that on certain levels 
we may very well function like computers, 
but any model of a human being which 
acknowledges only that aspect is incom­
plete.
We have come full circle — we are now 
imitating our inventions. The more we 
attempt to re-create technology the more we 
attempt to re-create ourselves in this image.
Wendy Scott is a senior majoring in Psy­
chology and is a writer for The Tartan.
RESOURCES
We apply the same formula to finance, marketing and operations as we do to 
engineering design and manufacturing While an MBA graduate in these fields might 
look past a technology-based company, we invite you to take a closer look at Intel 
Our formula is simple: find creative people and give them the tools, 
freedom and management support to pursue objectives
OBJECTIVES
You will play a key role in determining your career and business objectives.
We are firm believers in participative management. If your objectives are immediate 
responsibility, high visibility, and the chance to break new ground, you are an Intel person
NEW COLLEGE GRADUATES
If you are graduating with an MBA in marketing, finance or operations management, we invite you to pursue Intel We offer challenges and advancement based on achievement in Texas Arizona. Oregon. New Mexico, and California
INTEL
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS 
NOVEMBER 11,1983
Meet with our recruiters and learn how you can make'the Intel formula work for you It you are unable to meet with us please send your resume outlining your career goals m care of INTEL COLLEGE RELATIONS to the location of your choice Arizona 5000 West Williams Field Road. Chandler AZ 85224 California PO Box 3747 Santa Clara CA 95051 New Mexico 4100 Sara Road Rio Rancho NM 87124 Oregon 5200 N E Elam Young Parkway JF1-1-149 Hillsboro OR 97123;Texas 12675 Research Blvd Austin TX 78766
An Equal Opportunity Employer M F H
intpl
winners by design

---------------------------------------------------

UKWOjjaiiroom
v ' '
lickels ¦¦ *Z> /advance^3 /at door
ancin
ermdn
Must be 2) ~ Proof .
Sponsored, bu
Funded by Studmt Activities Fee,

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment.
Jewelry, teapots, ceramics, illustrations at Gallery
"Never Say Never" for 
Sean Connery's Bond
By KEITH RECKER
Special for the Tartan 
At the Forbes Gallery this week is the 
work of Susan Yarmoff, Jeff Parione, 
Elayne Prince and Bruce Moore. Each artist 
will show work that is for the most part 
unrelated to his regular course 
work. Their show opens 
November 2 with a celebration 
from 7 to 9 p.m.
Elayne Prince is a senior graphic design 
major. However, she is not showing any 
graphic design work; instead, asymmetrical 
necklaces made from shells, hom, glass and 
ceramic pieces will be presented. “Without 
my training as a graphic designer, I couldn’t 
have done these pieces. The deliberate deci­
sions about color, shape and position — the 
aesthetic decisions — have all been 
enhanced by my education.”
Each of the necklaces is meant to be worn 
as the major feature of an outfit, as a piece of 
artwork for the body. “I approach each 
necklace as if it were a big puzzle; when I 
finish the piece I hope I’ve assembled some­
thing which draws attention, something 
very striking,” she says. The quality of the 
materials Prince has used helps make the 
work exciting as well.
Bruce Moore is a third year architect. He 
will be showing his ceramic bowls, vases 
and teapots. Moore colors his pieces with 
reduction glazes and oxides, retaining a 
calm, quiet flavor in each. “I try to get a 
solid, natural form. The glazes have to keep 
the same calm mood as the form.”
One feature that appears in all of Moore’s 
ceramic work is the inclusion of an essential 
flaw. On the sides of the smooth-bodied 
vases he has slashed creases or poked inden­
tations. “These things have to stay human. 
They can’t be too perfect. The faults in my 
pottery give them a touchable, usable 
quality.”
The grey-green vases decorated with 
shapes very much like bamboo leaves also 
show the oriental influence of Moore’s 
childhood spent in the Far East.
Susan Yarmoff is a senior art major. She 
did not expect to be showing ceramic pieces 
this year, but her interest in ceramics has 
grown to such a point in the past months 
that most of her work for the show is oxide- 
painted ceramic sculpture. Yarmoff s work 
shows forms that are definitely female, but 
just as definitely not feminine. The forms 
are depersonalized; they have few identify­
ing marks. Each piece is full of frustration at 
being vulnerable.
Two of the sculptures show the female 
body from the hips up. Neither has arms. 
Both faces have only one human trait 
apiece. They are open to assault, and aware 
and afraid of this fact. The pieces are 
charged with an emotional impact that Yar­
moff herself feels strongly about. “I haven’t
"Andrew Sister" Patty 
swings Sheraton Ballroom
Patty Andrews, whose lead and solo sing­
ing helped define the incomparable sound 
of the Andrews Sisters, will enliven the Bal­
lroom of the Sheraton at Station Square for 
one dance-filled evening, Sunday, 
November 13. Patty will be backed by Pitts-
PATTY ANDREWS
burgh’s George Gee and his Make-Believe 
Ballroom Orchestra, who will play from the 
singer’s own charts, bringing back the 
swinging favorites of the big band era.
In recent years, Patty has been entertain­
ing audiences throughout the country, 
delivering the kind of pure, straight-ahead 
melodies that the Andrews Sisters made fam­
ous. Her most recent engagements included 
a spot on a Steve Allen television special. 
Following her Pittsburgh appearance, she 
will perform seven concerts in San Fran­
cisco, and will round out the year singing 
for passengers on the S.S. Norway.
George Gee and his Make-Believe Bal­
lroom Orchestra have set in motion a wave 
of finger snapping and jitterbugging for 
nearly five years. Pittsburghers have heard 
the orchestra front the Labor Day concert 
with Dionne Warwick and play at the Three 
Ribers Arts Festival as well as in various 
clubs throughout the area.
The Ballroom doors open at 8 p.m. 
Period Wurlitzer jukeboxes will be on dis­
play through the evening, and breaks in the 
live music will be filled with videos of jazz 
greats like Lionel Hampton, shown on the 
10-foot screen of Opus One’s Beta HiFi. 
Tickets for the event are available at all 
Kaufman n’s.
felt such energy about my work in quite a 
while. I know that these pieces are just the 
beginning of an exploration of one area of 
myself. I expect I’ll be working with these 
forms and emotions for a long time.”
Jeff Pacione is a junior graphic design 
major and will be showing his work in illus­
tration. His interest in the human form 
started him drawing figure studies. The 
focus of these studies quickly became heavy 
women. “I found that heavy women give me 
more organic shapes to work with. They are 
visually richer than bonier figures.” Paci- 
one’s drawings play with the human figure 
by treating the parts of the body as graphic 
elements.
One of Pacione’s pieces, “Attention 
Shoppers,” recalls trips to the grocery store 
where “on Thursday afternoon you could 
see all these heavy women jockeying for 
position in line.” The drawing is ligh­
thearted, and uses a contrast between line 
and gesture to establish its point.
CMU Drama's new schedule announced
The Department of Drama at CMU has 
announced several changes in its season’s 
schedule.
“The Greeks,” originally slotted for a 
November 9 to December 10 run, will 
instead be presented from January 11 to Feb­
ruary 4. The musical “Guys and Dolls” will 
replace “Candide” from April 4 to 28. Billy 
Wilson will direct and choreograph the 
show.
The grueling rehearsal schedule needed 
to mount the three full-length plays in “The 
Greeks,” the demanding design concept and 
the desire not to have the production bridge 
the holiday season were cited by drama head 
Mel Shapiro for the delay in production.
By CATHERINE STROUD VODREY
Tartan Staffxvriter
It is a bright day. The jungle is filled with 
cries of tropical birds. Silently, stealthily, a 
branch moves. Leaves are parted and we see 
. James Bond. Who else? Sean Connery
Bond is on a training mission 
to test his abilities. He gets 
“stabbed” by a steamy Latin 
beauty though, and M (played 
tisfyingly young and screeching 
Edward Fox) decides that Bond has been 
indulging in too many “free radicals” - his 
term for white bread, vodka martinis, and 
cigarettes. Bond is dispatched to a local 
health farm to get back into shape, 
promptly bedding the prettiest nurse. After­
wards, as she is lying asleep in his arms, 
Bond hears cries of anguish and a good deal 
of thumping going on. He looks out the 
window and catches sight of a nurse beating 
up a patient. The “nurse,” it turns out, is 
really the deliciously diabolical Fatima 
Blush (played with glee by the gorgeous 
Barbara Carrera.)
After an encounter with an evil muscle­
man, Bond decides to find out why someone 
is after him. That someone, of course, is 
Fatima. But she is only the tip of the iceberg; 
the real power behind her is SPECTRE, 
Bond’s old enemy and a group of considera­
ble and evil powers. The “patient” is found 
to be a turncoat military man who dons a 
fake eye in order to pass a test by a machine 
who thinks (because of the fake eye) that he
is really the President of the United States, 
and thereby replacing some relatively harm­
less bombs with nuclear ones. It’s all so 
confusing.
Somehow or other, Bond meets up with a 
sweet young thing named Domino Pettaci 
(played surprisingly well by former model 
Kim Basinger). She is the sister of the turn­
coat. He, unbeknownst to her, was killed by 
Fatima after he rendered the services of his 
fake eye. Domino is hooked up with a 
charming madman named Largo, who in 
addition to his quirkiness, also happens to 
be quite wealthy. Bond and Domino fall for 
each other immediately and during a beauti­
fully filmed ballroom dance scene in which 
they are the only couple dancing, he tells her 
that her brother is dead. She immediately 
decides to side with him and leave Largo.
The rest of the movie is involved with 
chase scenes, men on camels, women with 
veils over their faces, assorted vultures and 
prisons, and a breathtaking leap over a sheer 
cliff into the sea.
This is not a bad Bond movie, but there 
have of course been better. It can’t much be 
helped that Sean Connery has grown older, 
but the lack of the real M, Q, and the classic 
opening credit sequence (the one with all 
the naked gymnasts and swimmers in sil­
houette) is felt. It’s nothing you can put your 
finger on; this Bond is enjoyable and it’s 
nice to see Connery on the screen instead of 
milquetoast Roger Moore, but the air of 
completely-in-control Bond seems to be 
gone.
Tonight and tomorrow at 8 p.m. in Heinz Hall the Pittsburgh Ballet is offering a student 
special, a 15% discount for the performances of three new ballets, La Mer (music by 
Debussy), Allegro Brillante (music by Tchaikovsky) and A New Ballet, (choreographed by 
Jean-Pierre Bonnefows. Call 281-0360 for info.

---------------------------------------------------

'I
FALLFINAL
CARNEGIE-MELLON UNIVERSITY 
Final Examination Policy and Schedule
Office of the Registrar 
Fall 1983-84
POLICY
The Faculty Senate adopted the following policies on the administration of final 
examinations for the undergraduate courses:
1. all final exams shall be given in the final exam period;
2. the reading day and weekend preceding exams shall never be used for
exam purposes of any kind;
3. faculty shall not exert or submit to pressures to move an exam so that 
people can leave earlier;
4. no student shall be required to take more than two exams on a given finals 
day; the registrar shall assist the student in rerclving conflicts;
5. no critiques or juries shall be scheduled on the last day of classes;
6. papers shall be made due no later than on the last day of classes;
7. take-home final exams shall be given for any 24 hour period of the student s 
choosing during the final exam period.
Requests for exceptions to this policy should be made to Richard A. Rainsberger,
Registrar.
BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES
03-110Perspctvs of BiologyTueDec138:30-10:30MM 14
03-114Life Origin EvolutnFriDec161:00-3:00DH 2315
03-121Modern BiologyThuDec155:30-8:30DH 2315,
03-230GeneticsFriDec161:00-4:00WEH 7500
03-240Cell BiologyMonDec121:00-4:00SH 220
03-243Exp Tech Gen Mol BioTueDec138:30-11:30SH 212
03-432Biochemistry IISatDec178:30-11:30WEH 5403
03-439Intro to BiophysicsMonDec125:30-8:30DH 2105
03-442Molec Bio EukaryotesThuDec151:00-4:00WEH 6423
03-732Biochemistry IISatDec178:30-11:30SH 212
03-742Molec Bio EukaryotesThuDec151:00-4:00WEH 6423
CHEMICAL ENGINEERING
06-151 Thermodynamics
06-201 Heat & Mass Transfer
06-204 Process Thermodynmcs
06-301 Appl Reactn Kinetics
06-302 Process Engr & Synth
06-703 Adv Fluid Dynamics
06-705 Appl Ch E Thermodyn
06-706 Adv Proc Engr & Des
06-717 Fermentation Technology
SatDec178:: 30--10: 00WEH7500
MonDec121 :: 00--4:00DH1112,DH1212
TueDec138:: 30--10: 30DH1112,DH1212
ThuDec155:: 30--7:30DH1112,DH1212
MonDec125:: 30--7:30DH1112,DH1212
TueDec135: 30--8:30DH1112
WedDec148: 30--11: 30PH19 A
TueDec131:00--3:00WEH5415
MonDec128:: 30--11: 30SH224
CHEMISTRY
09-105Dynamics & EquilibWedDec148:30-1.1:30DH 1112, DH 1212 
DH 2210, DH 2315 
WEH 7500, HH 10,09-106Bonding Struct PrincFriDec168:30-11:30DH 121209-117Organic Chem IFriDec165:30-8:30DH 221009-218Organic Chemistry IIThuDec151:00-4:00WEH 750009-243Physcl Chemistry IIWedDec148:30-11:30Gregg Hall09-502Orgnc Chem PolymersSatDec171:00-4:00SH 12509-711Adv Organic Chem IThuDec158:30-11:30DH 121209-741Orgnc Chem PolymersSatDec171:00-4:00SH 125
CIVIL ENGINEERING
12-110Intro Engr EconomicsThuDec15100-4:00PH125B12-203Systems Engr ISatDec17100-4:00HH11
12-320Structural Mech ISatDec17830-10:30PH19A12-330Fluid Mechanics ITueDec13530-8:30BH231
12-623Structural DesignTueDec13830-11:30PH123B
12-627Foundation EngrSatDec17830-11:30. PH123B
12-636Envr Engr Air PollutThuDec15830-10:30PH19A
12-648Civil Engr ProjMonDec12530-8:30PH123B
12-721Gr Wtr Hydrolgy ChemMonDec12830-11:30PH126A
39-300Anal Synth & Evalua Sec.F WedDec14830-10:30PH19C
COMPUTER SCIENCE
15-118Intro to Computing CSec.SThuDec158:30-11:30WEH5403»,
15-200Surv Prgmng Mth ApplFriDec161:00-4:00WEH5427
15-211Fund Str Progrmng IMonDec125:30-8:30Gregg Hall
15-212Fund Str Progrmng IIFriDec168:30-11:30WEH7500
15-312Cmprtv Prgrmng LangFriDec161:00-4:00HH11, MM14
15-381Artfçl Int Rp Pr SlvMonDec121:00-4:00MM103
15-412Operating SystemsTueDec131:00-4:00SH125
15-451Appl Algorthm DesignSec., AMonDec125:30-8:30HH10
BMonDec125:30-8:30HH11
ELECTRICALAND COMPUTER ENGINEERING
18-101Linear Circuit AnalWedDec145:30-8:30WEH7500, DH 2315
18-201Field Analysis EngrSatDec171:00-4:00Gregg Hall
18-221Electrnc Circuits IIWedDec148:30-11:30BH231, MM14
18-236Intro Sol St ElctrncThuDec151:00-4:00PH19C
18-247Intro Computer ArchMonDec121:00-4:00SH324, SH422
18-301Fundmntls of ControlTueDec138:30-11:30BH231, SH125¦
18-331Semicndct Dev App ISatDec178:30-11:30SH125j18-701Eletrmg Fid TheoryWedDec148:30-11:30SH206
18-721Semicndct Dev App ISatDec178:30-11:30SH1251
18-741Intro Comput DesignWedDec141:00-4:00SH125
18-771Modern Control EngrMonDec125:30-8:30SH220
ENGINEERING AND PUBLICPOLICY
19-319Law & the EngrTueDec131 :00-4:00SH220
19-422Radiatn Hlth Pub PolMonDec128:30-11:30PH125C
MATHEMATICSPHYSICS
21-105Pre-CalculusMonDec125:30-8:30BH 23133-115Introductory PhysicsThuDec158:30-11:30HH 11. MM 1421-111Calculus IMonDec125:30-8:30DH 2210, DH 231533-121Physics I MechanicsMonDec128:30-11:30BH 231. Grece Hall21-112Calculus IIMonDec125:30-8:30WEH 7500DH 1112, DH121221-121Calculus IIMonDec121:00-4:00BH 231, Gregg Hall•DH 2210, DH2315
DH 2210, DH 2315WEH 7500, PH225CWEH 7500SH 12521-122Calculus IIThuDec151:00-4:00DH 2210, DH 231533-122Physics II Ht Wv OptFriDec168:30-11:30DH 231521-127Dlscr Math Cmptr SciFriDec168:30-11:30HH 10, HH 1133-123Physics III Elec MagThuDec158:30-11:30DH 2210, DH231521-257Optmztn Soc Sci IThuDec151:00-4 :00Gregg HallWEH 7500, SH12521-259Mthds Appl Math ITueDec138:30-11:30Gregg Hall, DH 221033-127Phys III Hnrs El MagThuDec158:30-11:30Gregg Hall
DH 2315, WEH 750033-130Physcl Mechanics IMonDec125:30-8:30SH 12521-260Mthds Appl Math IITueDec131:00-4:00DH 2315, WEH 750033-435Modern Physics IIMonDec121:00-4:00WEH 542721-261Elements of AnalysisFriDec161:00-4:00DH 221033-437Intrmd Elec & Mag ISatDec178:30-11:30WEH 842721-293Operations Rsch IIMonDec121:00-4:00WEH 541533-441ThermodynamicsSatDec171:00-4:00WEH 731621-301CombinatoricsSatDec178:30-11:30DH 231533-463Special RelativityWedDec141:00-4:00WEH 541521-341Linear AlgebraTueDec135:30-8:30WEH 542733-755Quantum Mechanics IThuDec155:30-8:30WEH 842721-369Numerical MethodsThuDec151:00-4:00HH 11, MM 1433-757Classical MechanicsTueDec131:00-4:00WEH 642321-473AlgebraFriDec161:00-4:00WEH 540333-759Intro Theo Phys IThuDec151:00-4 :00WEH 731621-476Ord Diff EquationsWedDec148:30-11:30WEH 540333-765Statistcl MechanicsTueDec138:30-11:30WEH 731621-483OptimizationTueDec135:30-8:30WEH 540333-769Quantum Mechncs IIIWedDec145:30-8:30WEH 731621-484Applied Graph TheoryThuDec151:00-4 :00WEH 542733-779Intro Nuc Prctl PhysWedDec148:30-11:30WEH 731621-485Mathematical ModelsMonDec128:30-11:30WEH 542733-783Theory of Solids IThuDec158:30-11:30WEH 542721-492Geometric ProgrammingMonDec121:00-4:00WEH 540321-551Mathematcl Logic IWedDec148:30—11:30WEH 5415STATISTICS
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING36-101Stat Cncpts Cmp ApplSatDec171:00-4:00WEH 5427
24-102Statics Dfrm SolidsThuDec151:00-4:00SH 32436-209Prb App Sta Mg SS ISatDec171:00-4:00DH 2315, WEH750024-112Fluid MechanicsSatDec178:30-11:30SH 20636-211Prb App St Ph S&E.IMonDec125:30-8:30MM 10324-121Thermodynamics I Sec. AMonDec121:00-4:00HH 1036-215Probability Stat I Sec.A SatDec171:00-4:00DH 1112
BMonDec121:00-4:00HH 11B SatDec171:00-4:00DH 121224-141Statics and DynamicsThuDec155:30-8:30SH 22036-217Prob Random ProcessThuDec15'5:30-8:30HH 10, HH 1124-202Mech Dfrmbl SolidsSatDec178:30-11:30HH 10, HH 1136-220Stat Mth Data An IIWedDec145:30-8:30PH 19A
24-208Manufactur SciencesTueDec135:30-8:30SH 212, SH 22036-319Adv Data Analysis IFriDec168:30-11:30PH 19C
24-213Viscous FlovThuDec158:30-11:30SH 21224-223Thermodynamics IIWedDec148:30-11:30SH 125, PH 225CCIT INTERDISCIPLINARYPROGRAM
24-227Intral Comb EnginesThuDec151:00-4:00SH 42224-233Heat TransferSatDec171:00-4:00HH 1039-300Anal Synth & Evalua Sec.F WedDec148:30-10:30PH 19C
24-245Dynamics Physcl SystMonDec121:00-4:00SH 212, SH 12524-249Dynamics & VlbratnsTueDec138:30-11:30HH 10, HH 11BIOMEDICALENGINEERING
METALLURGICALENGINEERING AND MATERIALS SCIENCE42-500PhysiologySatDec171:00-4:00WEH 5403
42-735PhysiologySatDec171:00-4:00WEH 5403
27-131Materials Science Sec. AFriDec165:30-8:30WEH 5403BFriDec165:30-8:30DH A317ARCHITECTURE
CFriDec165:30-8:30WEH 750027-211Thermodynamics IMonDec125 :30-8:30WEH 541548-125StructuresMonDec121 :00-4:00MM 14
27-313Thermodynamics IITueDec138:30-11:30DH A31748-144Prgrm Feasblty AnalWedDec148:30-11:30MM 312
27-331Physcl Metallurgy IWedDec148:30-11:30WEH 542748-160Basic Cnc Pts in ArcThuDec158:30-11:30TBA
27-441Dfrmatn of Matls IThuDec15I : 00-4 :00DH A31748-162Intro Archtctrl HistWedDec148:30-11:30CFA’206
27-529Hdm Steelmkng ProcSatDec171:00-4:00DH A31748-326Daylighting SeminarWedDec145:30-8:30BH 235A
27-764Perform gr MatlsWedDec141:00-4:00DH A31748-370Ear Renalss Arc HistTueDec138:30-11:30TBA
27-783Phase Trns Solids IISatDec171 :00-4 :00DH 121148-382Words 4 SurroundingsWedDec141:00-4 :00SH 224
48-388Architect in HousingTueDec135:30-8:30CFA 211

---------------------------------------------------

EXAMSCHEDULE
DESIGN
51-340Production MethodsTueDec138:30-1):30
DRAMA
54-181Text AnalysisWedDec141:00-4:00
54-475Theatre ManagementMonDec128:30-11:30
MUSIC
57-109Elementary TheoryFriDec162:00-3:00
57-151Harmony IWedDec145:30-7:30
57-152Harmony IIWedDec141:00-3:00
57-153Harmony IIIWedDec145:30-7:30
57-161Eurythmies IWedDec1412:30-3:30
57-163Eurythmies IIIThuDec159:30-11:30
57-165Eurythmies VWedDec143:30-4:30
57-173History of Music ISatDec179:30-11:30
57-175Solfege Mus Thea IThuDec155:30-7:30
57-177Solfege Mus Thea IIITueDec135:30-7:30
57-181Intro to SolfegeThuDec151:00-3:00
57-183Solfege IITueDec131:00-3:00
57-204History of Music IIIWedDec149:30-11:30
57-25516th Cen CounterpntThuDec155:30-7:30
57-257Orchestration ISatDec171:00-2:00
57-265FugueTueDec131:00-2:00
57-332Intro to ConductingMonDec121:00-2:00
57-344Instr Mthds StringsThuDec159:30-10:30
57-347Elctrnc Comput MusicThuDec151:00-3:00
57-407Form and AnalysisSatDec179:30-11:30
57-459Keybd Harm Score RdgWedDec149:30-10:30
57-606Voice ClassSatDec179:30-10:30
ECONOMICS
73-100Prlnc of EconomicsA-HWedDec141:00-4:00
I-MWedDec141:00-4:00
73-250Intermed MicroeconSec. AWedDec141:00-4:00
BWedDec141:00-4:00
CWedDec141:00-4:00
DWedDec141:00-4:00
EWedDec141:00-4:00
73-251Int Microecon TheoryWedDec141:00-4:00
73-300Intermed MacroeconSec. AThuDec158:30-11:30
BThuDec158:30-11:30
73-340Labor EconomicsTueDec135:30-8:30
73-358Econ Envrn Natur ResMonDec128:30-11:30
73-359Benefit-Cost AnalyWedDec141:00-4:00
73-360EconometricsSatDec171:00-4:00
73-365Industrl OrganizatnMonDec128:30-11:30
73-370Internatl EconomicsWedDec141:00-4:00
SH 224
TBA
PH 126B
CFA 160 
MM 103 
CFA 160 
CFA 160 
MM 119 
MM 119 
MM 119 
CFA 160 
MM 127 
MM 127 
MM 127 
MM 127 
CFA 160 
CFA 157 
CFA 157 
CFA 157 
MM 119 
CFA 107 
CFA 107 
TBA
CFA 157 
CFA 157
DH 2315
PH 126A, PH 225B
PH 226A, PH 226B
PH 126C
PH 19C
BH 131
HH 11
WEH 5403
SH 422
PH 21
BH 131
HH 10
HH 11
PH 19A
PH 19A
BH 131
PH 19C
PH 20
ADMINISTRATION AND MANAGEMENT SCIENCE
70-101 Elea Induscrl Admin Sec.
70-121 Financial Accounting Sec.
70-150 Fndmntls Insurance
70-160 Intro Gra Cmnctns I
70-192 Graph Conuun Proc I
70-311 Orgnztnl Behavior I Sec.
70-332 Govemnmt & Business 
70-335 Business and labor
70-363 Law in Mdra Amer Soc Sec
70-381 Marketing ISec
70-422 Cost Accounting 
70-471 Production II 
70-491 Finance II 
70-520 Publicity Public Rel 
70-631 Graph Cotomm Matls
Wed
Tue 
Tue 
Tue 
Tue 
Mon 
Tue 
Sat 
BC Fri 
D Fri 
Sat 
Wed 
A Fri 
B Fri 
A Tue 
B Tue 
Wed
Dee 14 
Dee 13 
Dee 13 
Dee 13 
Dee 13 
Dee 12 
Dee 13 
Dee 17 
Dee 16 
Dee 16 
Dee 17 
Dee 14 
Dee 16 
Dee 16 
Dee 13 
Dee 13 
Dee 14
Wed Dee 14 
Mon Dec 12 
Thu Dee 15 
Thu Dec 15
ENGLISH
76-101 Fiction and FactSec.A Tue 
BE Tue 
C Tue
76-220 Autobiography
76-221 Quest for Identity
76-230 Bblcl Myth Bkgrd Lit
76-231 Rites of Passage
76-241 Lit Trad Major Poets
76-244 Shakespeare Sec.
76-271 Intro Prof Tech Writ Sec 
76-341 17th Century
76-342 18th/19th C Novelist
76-351 20th Cent Literature
76-371 Rhetor Soc Interactn
76-372 Journalism I
76-388 Cntmp Rhetrcl Theory
76-390 Intro to Ling Anal
76-420 Modernism
76-441 Shakespeare
76-741 17th Century
76-742 18th/19th C Novelist
76-751 20th Cent Literature
76-771 Rhetor Soc Interactn
76-772 Journalism I
76-788 Cntmp Rhetrcl Theory
76-790 Intro to Ling Anal
76-820 Modernism
76-821 Process of Research
76-841 Shakespeare
D Tue 
F Tue 
G Tue 
Tue 
Fri 
Fri 
Fri 
Thu 
AB Mon 
C Mon 
DE Mon 
. B Fri 
Sat 
Mon 
Wed 
Wed 
Mon 
Tue 
Thu 
Wed 
Thu
Dee 13 
Dee 13 
Dee 13 
Dee 13 
Dee 13 
Dee 13 
Dee 13 
Dee 16 
Dee 16 
Dee 16 
Dee 15 
Dee 12 
Dee 12 
Dee 12 
Dee 16 
Dee 17 
Dee 12 
Dee 14 
Dee 14 
Dee 12 
Dee 13 
Dee 15 
Dee 14 
Dee 15
Sat Dee 17 
Mon Dee 12 
Wed Dee 14 
Wed Dee 14 
Mon Dec 12 
Tue Dec 13 
Thu Dec 15 
Wed Dec 14 
Wed Dec 14 
Thu Dec 15
5:30-8:30
1:00-4:00
1:00-4:00
1:00-4:00
1:00-4:00
1:00-4:00
5:30-8:30
8:30-11:30
8:30-11:30
8:30-11:30
8:30-11:30
5:30-8:30
1:00-4:00
1:00-4:00
8:30-11:30
8:30-11:30
8:30-11:30
1:00-4:00
5:30-8:30
5:30-8:30
5:30-8:30
5:30-8:30
5:30-8:30
5:30-8:30
5:30-8:30
5:30-8:30
5:30-8:30
5:30-8:30
5:30-8:30
5:30-8:30
8:30-11:30
1:00-4:00
8:30-11:30
8:30-11:30
8:30-11:30
5:30-8:30
8:30-11:30
5:30-8:30
1:00-4:00
8:30-11:30
1:00-4:00
1:00-4:00
1:00-4:00
5:30-8:30
5:30-8:30
8:30-11:30
5:30-8:30
1:00-4:00
8:30-11:30
1:00-4:00
1:00-4:00
1:00-4:00
5:30-8:30
8:30-11:30
5:30-8:30
BH 231 
BH 131 
PH 225C 
PH 226B 
PH 226C 
BH 131 
SH 422 
SH 422 
BH 231 
BH 131 
MM 103 
PH 19C 
PH 19C 
PH 20 
PH 225C 
BH 131
SH 212, 220, 224 
PH 225C 
BH 131 
PH 19C 
SH 422
PH 225B 
Adamson Rm 
PH 226A 
PH 226B 
PH 226C 
PH 229B 
BH 235A 
BH 245 
Adamson Rm 
BH 229B 
BH 229B 
Adamson R* 
PH 226A 
PH 21 
BH 235B 
BH 235B 
PH 226A 
BH 235A 
BH 235A 
PH 226A 
BH 235A 
BH 245 
BH 229B 
BH 235A
BH 235B 
PH 226A 
BH 235A 
BH 235A 
PH 226A 
BH 235A 
BH 245 
BH 229B 
BH 235B 
BH 235A
H&SS INTERDISCIPLINARY PROGRAM
66-204
66-213
Unity Pwr Chg Fc Eur 
Renaissance & Reform
Fri Dec 
Fri Dec
1:00-3:00
5:30-8:30
PH 225C 
BH 255A
HISTORY AND PHILOSOPHY
79-102Shaping Wstrn Civ Sec.AWedDec145:30-7:30PH125CPSYCHOLOGY AND EDUCATION
BWedDec145:30-7:30PH226B
79-103American CivilizationAWedDec145:30-7:30BH13185-100Cog Proc Theo fc PracTueDec131:00-4:00DH 2210, MM 103BWedDec145:30-7:30DH1209Adamson Rm
79-110Origins of Mdrn WrldThuDec155:30-7:30DH2210, Gregg Hall85-101General PsychologyFriDec165:30-6:30BH 231
79-120Dev of Amer SocietyFriDec168:30-10:30DH2210, Gregg Hall85-113Psych Learn Prb SolfFriDec161:00-4:00Gregg Hall
79-210Ptrns Life Mdrn SocSatDec171:00-3:00PH2185-211Cognitive PsychologyA MonDec128:30-11:30HH 10, HH 11
79-212Scientific OutlookWedDec145:30-7:30BH235BB MonDec128:30-11:30BH 131
79-215Dynam Europe SocietyFriDec165:30-7:30SH12585-213Info Pr Artfcl IntelTueDec135:30-6:30HH 10
79-220History Through FilmThuDec159:30-11:30BH23185-221Dvlpantl PsychologyFriDec165:30-8:30BH 340A
79-221Hstry Amer Urbn LifeThuDec155:30-7:30PH225C85-251PersonalityThuDec155:30-7:30BH 340A
79-226Tchnlgy in Wstrn CivMonDec129:30-11:30PH125D85-252Surv Actual SuccessSatDec171:00-4:00BH 340A
79-250Intro Appi HistoryMonDec125:30-7:30BH24585-310Rsch Mthds Cog PsychMonDec128;30-ll:30BH 340A
79-332China TodayThuDec151:00-3:00BH254A85-340Rsch Mthds Soc PsychTueDec131:00-3:00BH 231
79-370Mdrn Russian HistoryWedDec145:30-7:30PH125D85-394Psych of ReadingTueDec139:30-11:30BH 331H
85-411Cognitive PsychologyWedDec141:00-4:00WEH 7500
Philosophy Courses85-443Jury Behav fc Pub PolSatDec171:00-3:00WEH 6423
80-100Philos Mthds Soc ValSatDec178:30-11:00Gregg Hall, DH 221085-457Behavior ControlWedDec149:30-10:30BH 331H
80-150AestheticsTueDec131:00-3:00Gregg Hall85-711Cognitive PsychologyWedDec141:00-4:00WEH 7500
80-372Psychoanalysis FreudSat.Dec.179:30-11:30BH24585-713Info Pr Artfcl IntelTueDec135:30-6:30HH 10
85-795Psych of ReadingTueDec139:30-11:30BH 331H
Modern Language Program 
82-101 Elementary French
82-103 Programmed French
82-121 Elementary German
82-123 Programmed German
82-141 Elementary Spanish
82-161 Elementary Italian
92-163 Programed Italian
82-201 Int French Cult Soc
82-221 Int German Cult Soc
82-241 Int Spanish Cult Soc
82-261 Intermediate Italian
82-301 French Conver fc Comp
82-321 German Cnvrsatn Comp
82-341 Spanish Cnvrsatn Cmp
82-409 French Lit of 19th C
82-429 German Lit of 19th C
Thu Dec 15 
Fri Dec 16 
Tue Dec 13 
Fri Dec 16 
Mon Dec 12 
Thu Dec 15 
Thu Dec 15 
Fri Dec 16 
Wed Dec 14
Thu Dec 15 
Tue Dec 13 
Fri Dec 16 
Fri Dec 16 
Tue Dec 13 
Tue Dec 13 
Tue Dec 13
1:00-3:00
5:30-8:30
5:30-7:30
1:00-3:00
5:30-7:30
8:30-10:30
8:30-10:30
5:30-7:30
1:00-3:00
9:30-11:30
1:00-3:00
5:30-7:30
5:30-7:30
9:30-11:30
9:30-11:30
5:30-7:30
BH 235B 
PH 226B 
PH 225C 
PH 21 
PH 225B 
PH 225B 
PH 225B 
BH 235A 
PH 22.6C
PH226C 
PH 225B 
PH 226C 
PH 226A 
PH 226B 
PH 226A 
PH 226A
SOCIAL SCIENCE
88-102 Dec Pr Amer Pol Inst Tue Dec 13 5:30-8:30
88-200 Information Syst I Thu Dec 15 5:30-8:30
88-220 Policy Analysis I Sat Dec 17 8:30-11:30
88-240 Empircl Rsch Meth I Mon Dec 12 1:00-4:00
88-260 Organizations Tue Dec 13 5:30-8:30
88-280 Social Sci Theory I Mon Dec 12 5:30-7:30
88-326 Law fc Public Policy Thu Dec 15 1:00-4:00
88-330 Internatnl Politics Thu Dec 15 5:30-8:30
88-341 Dvlpmnt Mdrn Am Econ Tue Dec 13 1:00-3:00
88-342 Mkt Org Bus Behav I Mon Dec 12 9:30-11:30
88-361 Tchnlgy fc Soc Change Wed Dec 14 1:00-3:00
88-421 Issues Domes Pub Pol Wed Dec 14 9:30-11:30
88-423 Jury Behav fc Pub Pol Sat Dec 17 1:00-3:00
88-761 Tchnlgy fc Soc Change Wed Dec 14 1:00-3:00
88-821 Issued Domes Pub Pol Wed Dec 14 9:30-11:30
Gregg Hall, DH 2210
!*< 103
BH 231
PH 125B
Gregg Hall
PH 226B
BH 235A
PH 125D
PH 12«:
DH 2122 
BH 229B 
PH 226B 
WEH 6423 
BH 2291 
PH 226B

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14—The Tartan—November 1, 1983
Pulitzer play "Gin Game" could be better
By VINCENT GUINTO
Tartan Contributing Editor
The Gin Game: a study of old age? 
Unquestionably so, but the old age por­
trayed in the play certainly make aging seem 
undesirable, to say the least. The Pittsburgh 
Laboratory Theatre’s currendy- 
-running production of D. L. 
Coburn’s Pulitzer Prize- 
Winning play is not bad at all, 
but the play itself is not for anyone worried 
about old age.
The play concerns Weller and Fonzia, 
two people recendy interred in an old folks 
home. Neither fits in well at the home, and 
in the first scene establish a sort of refuge for 
themselves in the form of a gin game on the 
back porch. A tentative friendship develops 
between the two.
According to the Lab’s press release, “as 
the play progresses, so does their friend­
ship.” Hardly so. Weller’s uncontrollable 
temper borders on the psychotic, while Fon­
zia is revealed to be no angel either. Deceit, 
violence, spite, and hatred run strongly 
through the play, leading to a most unsatisf­
ying climax.
An argument can be made for the play’s 
realism. In this case, however, the realism is 
overstated. Neither character turns out to 
have any redeeming value beyone being piti­
able. No warm human emotions are exhi­
bited by the two except for a fleeting 
friendship originating more from loneliness 
and despair than from any mutual attrac­
tion. This is certaily a grim and unfavorable 
portrayal of old age, a period of life which is 
by no means completely rosy but is by no 
means as totally black as this play portrays it 
as. The Pulitzer Prize people must have been 
in a pretty dark mood when they picked The 
Gin Game.
The Lab’s production is good. Bingo 
O’Malley and Nann Mogg, two veteran 
actors with many major roles to their credit, 
both do convincing portrayals of lonely old 
people. O’Malley handles Weller’s raging 
temper on a par with the intensity of his 
performance in last season’s Man in the 
Glass Booth. As Fonzia, Mogg displays 
fiiendliness, fear, spite, and hatred with 
equal ability.
Concert of jazz-rock
The performance was well staged. The 
direction, lighting, and set design were all 
equally good. As usual, the Lab uses back­
ground music before the opening and at 
intermission to set the mood; this time, how­
ever, it sounded like the tape was left over 
from their last show, Catch-22. On the basis 
of the production, The Gin Game can be 
enjoyed, but only if you have a sufficient 
taste for pathos.
Jean-Luc Ponty at Stanley
By ALAN J. WHITFIELD
Tartan Staffwriter
Jean-Luc Ponty, rock jazz violinist, per­
formed at the Stanley Saturday October 15, 
with a show promoting his newest album 
Individual Choice, but also including selec-
Why do outstanding 
systems programmers 
work in Seattle, WA?
Microsoft®
MicrosoftK develops the lead­
ing edge in microcomputer 
systems software. Our BASIC is 
world renowned. Our XENIX™ 
OS, the microcomputer 
adaptation of the UNIX™ OS, 
has computer companies 
and others chomping at the 
bit. We design state-of-the-art 
system software.
We need programmers to 
work on Operating Systems, 
Compilers (FORTRAN, COBOL, 
Pascal, BASIC, C). Word Pro­
cessing, Data Base Manage­
ment Systems, Graphics and 
more.
Our OEM customer base is a 
Who’s Who of the hardware 
business (IBM, Apple, Radio 
Shack, Intel, Tektronix). As new 
systems, like the IBMp Personal 
Computer and new processors, 
like the 68000™ are developed, 
Microsoft’s programmers get 
their hands on the machines 
before they go into production. 
So your hardware suggestions 
and software innovations 
during R & D become part of 
the computers of the future.
Microsoft provides the best 
systems programming work 
environment.
¦ all the high-level hardware 
(DEC* 2060, two 11 70’s, 
and VAX' 11 750 develop­
ment systems) and the soft­
ware development tools 
you’ll need, in a
¦ small company with lots of 
interaction and sharing of 
ideas and methods where
¦ you can develop your full 
potential.
And, Microsoft is still in the
Great Pacific Northwest with
¦ mountains, ocean, desert, 
rain forest, rivers and lakes 
all within easy reach.
¦ major cultural, sports, 
social, and commercial 
activities in Seattle, just 
fifteen minutes away.
We are looking for outstanding 
programmers—those with 
intelligence, drive, and a 
commitment to excellence.
We want programmers who 
will advance The Standard in 
microcomputer software.
Microsoft offers an exceptional 
compensation and benefits 
package.
UNIX is a trademark of 
Bell Laboratories.
We will be interviewing on campus 
Wednesday, November 9,1983. 
Please contact your career placement 
office for schedule information.
BETTER TOOLS FOR MICROCOMPUTERS
MICROSOFT.
MICROSOFT CORPORATION 
10700 NORTHUP WAY 
BELLEVUE, WASHINGTON 98004.
tions from Mystical Adventure, 
Imaginary Voyage, and A Taste 
for Passion.
The French-bom Ponty has 
been recording his unique skills for many 
years and can boast more than 17 albums 
dating back as far as Canteloupe Island 
(1969) with recorder Frank Zappa. ^
The five-man band included Jean-Luc * 
Ponty and his many violins, a lean and bass 
guitarist, a keyboardist, and a percussionist.
The concert began with four cuts from 
older albums. The first two jumped with the 
quick tempo of Mystical Adventures. From 
the start the distinctive sound of Jean-Luc 
Ponty’s violin stood out as if he were alone 
on the stage. The violin controlled the stage, 
and as quickly as it picked up the tempo, it 
then mellowed out with two selections from 
A Taste for Passion.
Once his past credentials had been estab­
lished, the main body of the first set was 
from his newest release Individual Choice 
which mixes more synthesized effects into 
Luc-Ponty’s style of jazz.
“Final Truth, Parts 1 & 2” concludes the 
first set with solo’s from each member of the 
band, ending with an impressive display by 
the drummer.
After a reasonable intermission, Jean-Luc 
Ponty continued with works produced since 
his last Pittsburgh concert in 1980. This > 
included an extended selection from Imagi­
nary Voyage and the song “Reminiscence.”
In “Reminiscence” the unique, violin-like 
tuning of the lead guitar was shown off as it 
was harmonized and skillfully interwoven 
with Luc-Ponty’s violin. The two hour con­
cert concluded with a lively number approp­
riately titled “Tie.”
Piano team to play at 
Y music societyJ
Bedii and Elif Aran, a husband and wife 
two piano team from Istanbul who are 
much in demand in Europe, will make their 
first American appearance at a special Y 
Music Society concert on Wednesday, 
November 9 at 8 pm in the WM&WHA 
Building, Oakland.
Tickets are $6, but orders placed before 
November 1 will be $5. Call 521-8010 for 
ticket information.
allegheny
reproductive
health
center
abortion 
menstrual extraction
free pregnancy testing 
vd and contraceptive care
all services confidential
121 s. highland ave., 
Pittsburgh 
363-1107

---------------------------------------------------

____________________________Sports.
Case Western falls to Tartans, 15-10
[Jiiuiu uy Thehe ivugv.13
Halfback Gerard Sansosd escapes through hole opened up by usual rushing leader Morrison.
CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Assistant Sports Editor
In the most exciting game Camegie- 
has seen this year, the number two 
nked Tartans battled the number four 
nked Case Western Reserve Spartans Sat- 
Urdav at Tech Field. It was a battle that will 
Hot soon be forgotten.
I Tartans, on a one-yard touchdown, 
9un by Joe Vasalani with 7:09 left to play in 
Bie game, scored a 15-10 victory.
I CMU’s offense ran for 290 yards, led by 
wasalani’s 65 yards and Vic Boland’s 62. 
Ofcoland averaged 6.9 yards per carry, while 
¦he team averaged 4.7 overall. Although it 
¦noved the ball well, CMU had trouble on 
ihird down and short yardage. Five times 
CMU had third or fourth down and less 
Shan two yards and could not convert. Case 
Ivas converting almost everything, and had 
I 7-6 lead at halftime. Case was led by quar­
terback Fred DiSanto, who completed 14 of 
¦26 passes for 191 yards, and halfback Jim 
¦Donnelly. Donnelly had been averaging 
fftxactly 100 yards per game this season, 
including 167 versus Allegheny last week, 
a Donnelly was right on his average in the 
fi first half, gaining fifty yards. But the “Plaid
¦ Curtain” Tartan defense held Donnelly to 
pjust sixteen yards on 7 carries in the second 
half, and all Case could muster was a 25 yard 
H field goal by Mike Weber. That field goal 
i' was matched by Rob Fleischman’s 29 yard if effort.
This was a game won on the lines. The 
I Tartan offensive line was blowing huge 
¿holes in the Spartan defense. “We were get- 
»ting five yards a pop easily,” said Boland.
This week’s offense had a different look, 
i David Zito, who had been alternating at
quarterback, played the entire game. “I 
never anticipated playing the whole game. I 
wasn’t told until we got onto the field. 
There were also changes on the offensive 
line. While Coach Chuck Klausing had 
been going with the “white” and “go” 
teams, Saturday he ran a “white” team and a 
“gray” team. Why make changes after seven 
straight wins? “This was a tough game, and 
David’s played well.
“As far as efficiency, he’s number one in the 
conference. Their QB (DiSanto) was good 
he’s got big numbers, but he throws many 
more passes. For the number of passes David 
throws, he’s done very well,’’said Klausing.
Zito, sixth in the conference in total 
offense (passing and running), had led the 
“White” team to the last seven Tartan 
touchdowns, another major factor in the 
switch. Ross Jicomelli, the Tartans’ all- 
America candidate at right tackle, played on 
both offensive squads, and it’s always a plus 
when he’s on the field.
Klausing said, “I think any team that 
wins the battle of the line of scrimmage will 
win the game. But we didn’t win it all the 
time, they won their share. We won the 
batde at the right time. It was an even game. 
It’s a shame someone had to lose.”
Case Head Coach Jim Chapman agreed. 
“The line of scrimmage is always impor­
tant. They had help from a couple of ques­
tionable calls (by the officials). Mellon’s a 
good enough team, they don’t need help.” 
He was not surprised to see Zito go all the 
way at QB. “Go and white hurt them last 
week (CMU’s game against Bethany). We 
expected to see Vasalani, (Jim) Morrison, 
and Dave the whole way. We just made too 
many mistakes. We were too psyched.”
The feeling on the sideline in the fourth 
quarter was termed as “electric nervousness” 
by one fan. Players, coaches, photographers 
and reporters were leaping from their feet, 
hoping that the defense would hold Case 
just one more time. Mike Garverick was 
thinking about last year’s Hiram match, 
when a Fleischman field goal attempt was 
blocked in the final seconds and the Tartans 
lost “We have confidence in the defense, 
they’ve kept us in games all year. “Garverick 
rushed for 33 yards on five carries including 
a twenty-one yard blast. “I’m just so glad we 
won. It was easily the toughest game of the 
season,” said Garverick.
Senior Gerard Sansosd, almost back to 
100 percent after a knee injury, had his best 
game of the season, 38 yards on 8 carries. 
“When we went on the field the final time 
(with 3:32 remaining), we were just looking
“It hurt a log to sit on the sidelines and 
watch. You can’t do anything to help. I told 
the guys, just win these last two, and I’ll be 
ready for the playoffs.” Joe Garecht and Ron 
Orie played well filling in. Defensive Coach 
Don Poluszek said, “When you hold an 
explosive team like Case Reserve to just ten 
points someone must have played well.”
Joe Nardone said, “It was a tough one. I 
don’t think we had problems, they were just 
a damn good football team. They played 
their hearts out We’re on our way.”
Dale Kording, whose 15-yard roughing-
the-passer penalty help Case to its only 
touchdown, pressured DiSanto into four 
incomplete passes in the final series of the 
game. Kording said, “Two good teams came 
on the field, one great team left with a 
victory.”
What does this game mean? The Tartans
Sophomore Victor
Big equals important
By NEIL J. GREENBLUM
Tartan Staffuuriter
The word “big” describes two things: this 
past Saturday’s clash with Case Western, 
and this past Saturday’s Skoal player of the 
game. At 6'3" and 235 pounds, offensive 
tackle Ross Jicomelli creates many prob­
lems for defensive ends.
The Tartans ran for 290 yards against the 
Spartans of Case Western, with handoffs 
¦py occurring 94 percent of the dme on offense. 
^ The offensive line deserves a great deal of 
credit. Jicomelli said, “They (Case Western) 
knew we were a strong running team and 
they said their goal was to stop our running 
attack. We knew this, so we decided to just 
take it to ’em. We executed. We gave the 
running backs a seam, and they did what 
they had to do.”
“White” team member Jicomelli had two 
new linemates this week in junior Joe 
Glinka and freshmen David Merrigan, 
“Go" team tackle and guard, respectively, 
k We try to get everyone in the act,” relates 
the junior from Canonsburg, PA. “We have 
a bunch of good, young offensive linemen. 
It’s a credit to Coach (Richard) Lackner and
Coach (Tom) Nee, our offensive line 
coaches. They’ve really done a lot. They 
drive us hard, but it really has paid off.” 
Reiterating the tackle’s own line, Jico­
melli was a “good young offensive line­
man”. At Canon-McMillan high school, he 
was a two-year letterman under Coach 
Tom Olszewski. When Jicomelli came to 
Camegie-Mellon two years ago, he imme­
diately set the President’s Athletic Confer­
ence on fire. Besides earning a starting job 
he was named second team all-PAC in his 
freshmen and sophomore years, and was 
also an honorable mention choice for the 
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette all-District team in 
1981. From the look of things, this season 
should be the third consecutive year of 
awards for the Information Systems major. 
But Jicomelli isn’t looking at his prospects 
for another all-conference season. He is 
thinking about CMJJ’s number two Div­
ision III national ranking.
In beating Case Western Reserve, the Tar­
tans defeated the fourth-ranked team in the 
country. “They deserve to be four, but we 
deserve to be at the top. All week in practice 
we just kept saying, ‘two minus four equals 
one!”
As this (ailed connection between quarterback Dave Zito and wingback Brad Hu war shows, 
Case played CMU tough in the first half.
for a first down,” said Sansosti. "But they 
held us. Then Mike O’Ship had a great 
punt, and the defense stopped them.” 
O’Ship kicked a 49 yard punt cm fourth 
down, which, along with a clipping 
penalty, sent Case back to the twenty yard 
With O’Ship’s clutch performance, he 
redeemed himself. He had kicked an 
earlier punt that travelled just six yards.
Linebacker Mike O’Donnell, out for the 
last two regular season games with ligament 
damage in his knee, was missed on defense.
are now 8-0 with one game remaining, 
against John Carroll in Cleveland next 
week. No one is looking past that game, but 
playoffs are in the back of everyone's mind. 
They have won the big showdown. They 
have clinched at least a tie for the conference 
championship. They are pointing toward 
high goals, pointing to the top. Fight teams 
make the Division III playoffs, and with a 
victory next week, the number two ranked 
Tartans are sure to be invited. It will be 
the CMU Tartans don’t want to miss.

---------------------------------------------------

The Nws par 
poff TCfngaei 
-erw Nwso 
MslifrU
vCfe TCfng tsr 
yw,,ho MhegP
When Dollar Bank says 
Free Checking, we mean it. 
Absolutely Free. That means no 
minimum balance required. No 
monthly fees. No cost per check. 
And no other accounts required.
So, if you’re on a typical student 
budget, you don’t have to worry 
about it getting any tighter than 
it already is. And, with Dollar, 
you get the convenience of MAC® 
thrown in.
That’s right. When you open your 
Free Checking Account with us,
you’ll receive your own Dollar Bank 
MAC card. Use it to access the 
MAC machine in Skibo Hall, or use 
it at any of the nearly 100 other 
MAC locations in western 
Pennsylvania. It’s fast. It’s easy.
It’s convenient. And, like our 
Checking Account, it’s free.
To fit free into your budget, open 
your account with Dollar Bank 
today. Just visit our Squirrel Hill 
office, 5822 Forbes Avenue, or any 
Dollar Bank office and fill out an 
application. It’s that easy.
Dollar Bank
PITTSBURGH, PA Member FDIC

---------------------------------------------------

PAC Football Report
November 1, 1983—The Tartan—Page 17
c,RnU qc,d °C
Tuesday, Nov. 1st - Saturday, Nov. 5th
AcERcAd EdIMEWq
3710 Forbes Avenue - 2nd floor 
(Next to McDonalds)
^ We RENT albums tool '¿T
Bethany 
ohn Carroll 
Allegheny 
,Vash. 8c Jeff, 
-liram 
rhiel
Team Offense
MU _ j 
asc Western 
iram 
legheny 
ohn Carroll 
iel
thany
/ash. & Jeff.
"earn Defense
-thany > I
ghw i r
liram
/ash. 8c Jeff, 
jhn Carroll 
ise Western 
riel 
lllegheny
75
123
110
159
PA
48
100
66
158
143
137
136
201
A
361.5
340.4
316.0
277.8
250.4
237.0
232.4
208.9
A
205.2
239.8
267.3
267.9
282.6
289.5
326.0
339.0
PAC Statistics
This Week's scores
CMU 15 Case Weston 10
Wash. & Jeff. 21 Allegheny 7
Bethany 7 Hiram 3
John Carroll 21 Thiel 10
Augustana, IL 56 Olivet-Naiarene, IL 7
Hofctra, NY 24 St Johns, NY 2D
fX. ' _ "V''
INDIVIDUAL LEADERS
RushingATYDAVTDYD/G
Jim Donnelly, Case Western1797664.3695.8
Brad Cantwell, John Carroll1967625.9695.3
Glenn Simon, Bethany1375644.1280.5
Jim Morrison, CMU1205464.6168.3
Ed Taylor, Allegheny734315.9161.5
PassingACT/GIR
Dave Zito, CMU372266.03179.5
Chris Brodman, Allegheny10354128.05115.1
Fred DeSanto, Case Western16079128.65103.5
Jason Gorsica, Hiram229118193.91899.2
Mike John, Wash. & Jeff.1247078.94 *99.1
ReceivingRYATR/G
Andy Houpt, Thiel443798.6055
Greg Gorsica, Hiram2439516.513.4
Mark Warburton, Hiram2430712.813.4
Neal Nola, Bethany2229513.403.1
Kirt Gasaway, Thiel2430312.6230
PuntingP YDSAV
Kevin Baird, Allegheny38148939.1
Dave Strinisa, Bethany32123938.7
Mike O’Ship, CMU31113936.7
Jim Raforth, Case Western48176236.7
Don Edward, Wash, ¿r Jeff.41139634.0
PAC Soccer Report
League Standings
2892
2723
2212
1945
2003
1896
1627
1671
Individual Leaders
HAWAIIAN 
LUAU
. 1¿TWorewood
Qaiderfs,
tonight!
ALL’D
8
12
9
14
8
PTS
38
26
24
22
21
Goals
Against
Average
0.80
1.00
1.10
1.16
1.80
Sc Hfane
¦ - -I - universityUCIS 09service
Special Shabbat Dinner and 
Discussion:
“Varying Jewish Responses to Current 
Events in the Mid-East
Also — Meet the Hillel Board of Directors.
Friday, November 4
6:30 PM
315 S. Bellefield
Cost $3.00
RSVP 621-8875 By 5:00 Nov. 2. 
sponsored by the B’nai B’rith Hillel/JUC., 
a beneficiary of the United Jewish Federation.
PAC
Bethany 
Case Reserve 
John Carroll 
Allegheny 
Carnegie -Mellon 
Wash, fe Jeff. 
Hiram
Overall
Bethany
Camegie-Mellon 
Allegheny 
John Carroll 
Case Reserve 
Wash. 8c Jeff. 
Hiram
W LTper.
4001.000
410.750
420.667
320.eoo
246.533
041.100
04i.100
W LTper.
831.667
S50.708
741.625
850.583
6I.458
261.278
161.188
Goal tenders G
Bob Campbell (B) 10
Tony Sc2ezsiul (JCU) 12 
Pete Klapper (A) 8
Sam Montague (CMU) 12 
Andy Orosz (CWRU) 5
Tuesday, November 1, 1983 
4:30pm~7:00pm
“WEAR A HAWAIIAN SHIRT 
.& GET YOUR DESSERT FREE!”
Scorers
Sandy Mick (B)
Jeff Rights (CWRU) 
Ted Anderer (CMU) 
Ted Skattum (A) 
Steve Payne (JCU)

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18—The Tartan—November 1, 1983
Former Jeannette star moves to top of his class at CMU
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan /4iststoi Sports Editor
“A class act.”
That is how Jim Morrison described the 
system at Jeannette High School in 
Jeannette, Pennsylvania. It should have 
been how he described himself.
The 6 foot 2 inch senior co-captain of the 
Tartans has been the main beneficiary of the 
Tartans new wing-T offense. Last season, 
fullback Morrison ran for 103 yards on 27 
carries. This year, being the primary back, 
Morrison has gained 546 yards on 120 carries 
for a 4.5 average per carry. That total for the 
first eight games surpasses the total erf 1982
leader Mike Garverick, who had 433 yards as 
the Tartans went 6-3. The Tartans are cur­
rently 8-0, and Morrison is third in the Presi­
dent’s Athletic Conference. Morrison is not 
a breakaway runner. He is a bruiser, 
bowling over tacklers with relative ease.
Concerning his season performance, 
including two 100-yard plus efforts, he said, 
“It’s been all right. *The offensive line has 
been tough. You can’t help but hit those 
holes. I was surprised when I heard I had 100 
yard (in the Thiel game). I thought I had 
about 60. Any of our backs, you give them 
carries, they’ll gain the yards.”
Morrison runs with the “white” team
photo by John Rogers
Fullback Jim Morrison and the Tartans play in jerseys that Morrison designed.
THE EXPO IS COMING!
HEALTH EXPO ‘83
Saturday & Sunday 
November 5 & 6 9 AM — 9 PMSoldiers & Sailors Hall Fifth Ave at Bigelow
Do Something Meaningful 
And Fun This Weekend!
• Discover the fascinating world of a more vital 
and beautiful you
• Devour delicious and delectable food
• Try on unique clothes and shoes
• Pump up muscles with exercise equipment
• Check out entertaining demonstrations
• Leam about life extension concepts and over­
coming chronic ills
Only $5 with this coupon 
THE WEEKEND YOU’LL NEVER
FORGET!
offense and the offensive line of Ross Jico- 
melli, Rob Cortazzo, John Herold, Dan Ger- 
cak, Bob Butts, and tight end Harley 
Carroll. Morrison praised the line over and 
over. “The big question mark was the offen­
sive line, all underclassmen, and they’ve 
been getting better since day one.”
The same could be said for Morrison or 
“Mojo” as his friends and teammates refer to 
him. A football player since the age of nine, 
he was all-conference in his junior and 
senior years of high school at fullback and a 
monster back on defense. Jeannette High 
had approximately 500 students, and they 
were in a division with schools three times as 
large and more. Still, Jeannette was a peren­
nial power. Morrison’s teams lost only "four 
or five games in three years. The baddest 
football team there is. My brother plays for 
them now. He’s going to be better than I am. 
He’s about 15-20 pounds lighter than me, 
and he’s a sophomore. He plays quarter­
back, punter, and safety.” Morrison’s par­
ents, Glen and Nancy Morrison have not 
missed a game since he lias been in high 
school, including the junior varsity games 
played as a freshman.
“JV was tough,” said Morrison. “We 
played two games, and I had 30 carries and 
150 yards each game.” Morrison and Brad 
Huwar alternated at the starting fullback 
position the past two years.
Morrison began and ended a short-lived
designing career this summer. “Joe (Nar- 
done) and I designed the jerseys with Coac! v' 
Klausing. We still want stripes on the pants, 
though.”
Morrison has two brothers and two sis­
ters: Kim, 27; Richard, 24; Tracy, 18; and ’ 
Matt, 16. Morrison majors in Administra­
tive and Managerial Sciences. “Definitely an 
executive,” said Morrison. He is a member 
of the Alpha Tau Omega fraternity, where 
he has resided since the second semester of 
his freshmen year.
Morrison is excited about this year’s team.
“For what we do and how we play, it has the p 
• lpotential to be the best team since I’ve been 
here. It could be the best through a lot more F 
hard work.” As far as being number one 
earlier in the season, he thought then, “Not 
right now; it’s not good. Toward the end of 
the season it would be nice. But the ranking 
has motivated us; it has not worked to make 
us feel invincible.”
“We can’t get cocky. Everybody’s 
up for us now. For so long, we’ve been the 
team to beat. There are no easy games for us 1 
Bethany away is like playing USC in tK*e 
Rose Bowl if you are Maine University and 1 
they are carding you at the door, and if you 
are from anywhere near Maine, you aren’t 
allowed in.”
Morrison graduates in May, and when the ' 
Tartans play their final game this season, a ‘ 
fine football career will come to an end.
Football lets down
By NEIL J. GREENBLUM
Tartan Staffwriter
It was a cold, rainy, windy autumn day in 
Bethany, WV. Most of Camegie-Mellon was 
enjoying their mid-semester break. Bethany 
College was amidst Homecoming Week­
end. The Tartans were coming off a hard- 
earned 20-0 victory over the Presidents of 
Washington 8c Jefferson College and begin­
ning to think about their upcoming battle 
with the then-undefeated Case Western 
Reserve. All totaled, these conditions were 
perfect for a CMU letdown.
The letdown almost occurred. The Tar­
tans were ahead, 19-13, early in the fourth 
quarter when Bison defensive back Mike 
Castilow recovered a Tartan fumble, setting 
up a Bison.first down on the CMU 12 yard 
line. Led by burly fullback Glenn Simon, 
the Bisons had been moving the ball rather 
easily on the mud-caked field. A Bethany 
touchdown plus the conversion would have 
given them a lead that their number one 
PAC defense easily could have made stand 
up on this dreary day. The likelihood of 
CMU's first loss looked greater than it had 
all season.
But the Tartans rose up to the challenge.
With the help of a sack and a penalty, tb^ 
defense forced Bethany to settle for a 31-yarjl 
field goal from kicker Dan Trobee. Nine 
minutes later, senior wingback Joe Vasalani 
added his fourth TD run of the game, assur­
ing the Tartans of a 25-16 victory.
“It was a really tough game,” admitted 
junior placekicker Rob Fleischman. “We 
knew their defense would be good, and we 
had a lot of problems.”
A major problem was the muddy field. 
“The field conditions really hurt us. Our 
offense couldn’t execute,” explained sophe 
more linebacker Mike Paterchak, who w£s 
credited with a team-leading nine tackles.
Bethany’s Simon wound up with 108 
yards, the most yards any opposing back has 
run against die Tartans.
The defense was dormant most erf the 
game with senior Brian Zaforac’s three inter­
ceptions being the stronghold.
The best explanation erf this muddy Sat­
urday came from a Tartan offensive line­
man. “It was a defensive day. Their defense 
was fired up. They were stunting and gam 
bling on ‘D’, and they guessed right. CMU> 
a strong running team. They geared them­
selves for the run and they stopped us.”
e
.r.
SP
sie
Jti.
u

---------------------------------------------------

November 1, 1983—The Tartan—Page 19
are season produces Tartan athletic pearls
F
y MARGARET WISMER
urtan Staffuniter
All oysters get gallstones but. few make 
pearls. Real pearls are rare. A diver may stay 
mder water for hours to search through 
housands of mollusks before he finds a 
tone with lasting value. The gyms are 
warming with racquetball fanatics while 
jie parks fill on weekends with joggers, but 
caches know true athletes are a valuable 
uxury. Those who shine in every perfor­
mance are hard to find. Few people possess 
jie iron will to practice each day and still 
tain the endurance to show off when it 
ounts. The CMU coaches, however, have 
lad remarkable success in this year’s search, 
rhe Tartans this year have a whole string of 
aearls.
Under rare circumstances, there are a cou­
ple that glow brighter than the rest, and the 
Tartan varsity teams are no exceptions. The 
CMU Track, Volleyball, Soccer, Field 
Hockey, and Tennis teams are all in the 
midst of great seasons thanks to the perser- 
verance of the exceptional members.
Every senior on Cross Country has made 
111 East for three years straight including 
rack stars Mike Short and John Wessels 
vho have reached All-American. Running 
l to 12 miles a day, these enthusiasts all 
wim and lift weights to attain speed, endu- 
ance, perfection. According to Caoch Gary 
VIeckley, they train 20 to 25 hours weekly for 
heir Saturday meets and are not without the 
ccomplishments to show for it.
As a sophomore, Short broke the CMU 
ecords for the half-mile and 1500 meters at 
52.9 and 1:48.8 which equate to 4:04 a mile. 
He is the only CMU student ever to make 
All-American in two sports: Track and 
Cross Country. Nominated for the Olympia 
\ward, Short is continuing a self-imposed 
tradition of excellence. Because of injuries 
he was unable to run in the nationals last 
year but is starting to close in on his poten­
tial again. His efforts combined with John 
Wessels is helping to maintain the harrier’s 
spectacular 44 meet winning streak.
r Wessels also runs both Track and Cross 
Country, though he is more of a long dis­
tance man. Finishing 26 miles in two and a 
half hours, he is ranked as one of the coun­
try’s top marathoners in his age group. Wes­
sels has also finished in the top fifth in 
triathlons which are really super-endurance 
races consisting of swimming, bicycling and 
running. The different credentials Short 
and Wessels have racked spell the difference 
between their styles as runners. Possessed 
with greater strength and stamina, Wessels 
makes a better distance runner and, accord- 
g to Meckley, has the right make-up to 
e 10,000 meters in track. Likewise, Short is 
uch quicker at smaller lengths and trains 
for speed on top of his cross country 
ccomplishments. Meckley’s main concern 
is that their competetiveness overcomes their 
bility and they bum themselves out too 
pfly in the season. For Meckley, Short and 
Wessels are priceless as atheletes, and coach- 
lng them has been a once in a lifetime expe­
rience. But Meckley is “proudest erf the fact 
that he is dealing with two normal boys 
tth all the faults and great things that come 
with being young.”
Volleyball Coach Jane Fisk believes her
Sales People Needed 
High Commissions 
Work your own hours 
Must furnish own car 
Growth Opportunity 
462-5524
freshman and sophomore jewels look ter- Though her first varsity volleyball was at Likewise, Smith must work on her speed
rific together because they work so well as a CMU, Smith in general is an all-around in getting to the ball. Both Stariha and
team. Through September, volleyball has a athlete, competing in tennis and basketball Smith exhibit room for improvement,
2-2 record, their losses coming against Div- before coming here. Fisk believes her strong although their contribution to the group
ision I and II schools. Fisk knows the team serves are a direct result of her tennis form, effort renders them invaluable,
needs to be polished to its final luster with She is also accustomed to “playing well Apparently, CMU has cornered the 
more experience and practice. Two players, under pressure”. TheNwespa he rofp V4
especially seem closer to the potential than 
the rest. Though not necessarily better vol­
leyball players, Janet Stariha and Liz Smith 
seem to shine brighter in any given game.
As captain and center for the offense, Star­
iha works and plays hard. Relying on quick­
ness and experience, “she can cover a lot of 
room” on the court knowing instinctively 
where to reach the ball and where to set it.
She “calls the plays” and passes up front to 
“set up the attack.” Fisk finds Stariha to be a 
key player for the offense and realizes the 
need to use her in every game.
Smith is another priceless accessory to the f§ 
first string. A strong “ball handler,” Smith 
can hit hard and halt the opponent’s offense 
by blocking shots. Her height and innate 
sense of timing increase her value as a def- .
ensive player. She seems to possess a natural photo by John Rogers
ability to jump at the right time along with Charlie Lockhead (#5) and Neal Frink (#12) are just two of CMU’s phenoms who seem to 
the strength to push the ball across the net. come in pairs.
Information Systems Research
at the General Electric Research 
and Development Center
TheEnvironment
The R&D Center—one of the world’s leading laboratories in research and in new 
product innovations for a widely diverse, multi-business corporation. A place to 
advance, professionally, by solving real-world problems; a place to grow, intellec­
tually, by working with established technical leaders in a cooperative environment. 
Superb facilities include a large computer network of VAX machines utilizing VMS 
and UNIX operating systems, LISP machines and other personal workstations 
linked to mainframes. Schenectady, the Adirondack Mountains and their lakes—a 
peaceful location with excellent recreational, cultural, educational, and cost-of- 
living advantages. Normally, five to fifteen minutes commuting time to work. New 
York, Boston and Montreal within a few hours drive.
TheChallenge
To create and to extend Information Systems Technology (Computer Science/ 
Engineering, Systems Engineering, Data Communications) for a highly diversified, 
high technology company with large businesses in medical electronics systems, 
information and financial services, aerospace systems, automation systems, power, 
industrial, materials and consumer products. An interdisciplinary team approach 
to influence the present and future directions of information and knowledge 
systems technology for a large multi-national corporation.
ProfessionalOpportunities
We have immediate openings for technical staff, project leader and program 
managers in advanced systems development and in applied and theoretical 
research. Candidates should have the appropriate education/experience in: VLSI 
Systems, Artificial Intelligence, Expert Systems, Systems and Network Architec­
tures, Data Communications, Simulation and Modeling, Programming Languages 
and Compilers, Software Engineering, Relational Database, Computer Engineer­
ing, Systems Engineering, and Man-Machine Interface.
Candidates should have either M.S. or Ph.D. degrees in Computer Science, 
Computer Engineering or Electrical Engineering.
ContactInvestigate a challenging career with excellent salary, benefits and growth 
prospects by sending your confidential resume to Mr. Neff T. Dietrich, University 
Relations and Recruiting, Ref. CC-1, General Electric Research & Development 
Center, PO. Box 8, Schenectady, NY 12301.
The future is working at General Electric
GENERAL @ ELECTRIC
An equal opportunity employer

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20—The Tartan—November 1, 1983
Harriers run through pain to capture victory
By DAVE LAFYATIS
Tartan Staffivriter
An unstoppable force. That is what 
Camegie-Mellon’s cross-country team has 
become. Despite sicknesses, injuries, and 
absences, the CMU harriers have remained 
unbeatable, and furthermore, unapproacha­
ble, in the President’s Athletic Conference 
(PAC). On Saturday afternoon at Forest 
Hills Park in Cleveland, the Tartans cruised 
to their fourth consecutive PAC tide. The 
true character of this Camegie-Mellon 
squad was displayed as the team was forced 
to overcome numerous adversities to achieve 
this latest accomplishment.
The CMU varsity seven looked decimated 
before the meet began. All-American John 
Wessels was not at the PAC’s because of his 
sister’s wedding. All-American Mike Short 
was running in spite of the fact that he had 
been diagnosed for a hernia on the previous 
Friday. Senior Chris Shafer was suffering 
from tonsilitis. Sophomore Thom Bell was 
just recovering from a month long bout 
with colitis. Certainly, if the Tartans were 
ever going to be defeated in the PAC, this 
would have been the time to do it.
But there is something special about this
team. When the gun sounded at the confer­
ence championships, it seemed as if all the 
aches and pains were forgotten. As Coach 
Gary Meckley said, “We did what we had to 
do.”
The Tartan pack moved to the front, and 
never looked back at their opponents. Mike 
Short led the “red swarm,” winning the 5 
mile race in a time of 25.29. The next 4 CMU 
finishers, who were Thom Bell (5th place), 
Chris Shafer (6th place), Bob Dusch (7th 
place), and John McGowan (8th place), all 
crossed the line in under 25.40. Rounding 
out the championship team were Bob Sule- 
chi and Kevin Brewer. All of their efforts 
added up to a total of 27 points, 23 markers 
ahead of runner-up Allegheny and 61 ahead 
of third place Case Western. Another side­
light of the meet was the fact that CMU shut 
out Thiel in a dual meet, improving ‘The 
Streak’ to 54.
Team captain Kevin Brewer commented, 
“I think that the team is really looking bet­
ter. We took a big step in the right direction 
today, considering all of the circumstances.”
Meckley also seemed pretty pleased. “You 
have to realize that of our top five guys, only 
one ran healthy today. Still, we won our 4th
straight championship. Now, we have to 
start pointing towards the Regionals.”
Yes, it’s that time of the year again. After 
having this upcoming Saturday off, the Tar­
tans will compete in the Eastern Regionals
Saturday November 12th, looking to earn 
themselves another birth in the Nation. 
Championships. This week will be very 
important to the harriers as they try to heal 
their injuries.Ice hockey starts hot
By NEIL J. GREENBLUM
Tartan Staffivriter
Although it's only the first of November, 
Camegie-Mellon hockey is off to a flying 
start. The defending champion Ice Tartans 
opened their 1983-1984 campaign with a 6-0 
road victory over Allegheny College.
The Tartans got three first period goals, 
all coming in the first eight minutes. Dave 
Ahlberg, a newcomer to the Tartans, scored
their first and third goals, both on hard work 
in front of the net. The middle goals was the 
result of a set-up from Rob Katy to Eric
Spray on a breakaway at 6:22. Katy, Donny 
Heyse, and veteran defenseman Paul Russo 
added the remaining tallies.
The Ice Tartans home opener occurs this 
Wednesday at Lakevue ice Palace vs. the 
Duquesne Dukes. The game can be heard 
on WRCT at 8:30 p.m.
Pittsburgh would be nuked
IM seasons start and finish
By SEAN QUINN
Tartan Staffivriter
Intramural co-rec volleyball and touch 
football are history in 1983. In volleyball the 
champions in each division are: Majors — 
Theta XI; Intermediates — Faraday; and 
Minors — Your Momma. As for football, 
the minors championship was decided Fri­
day night with the Crunch Bunch defeating 
the Camot Cycles; in Intermediates, the 
Champedes beat the Crash Crew Thrusday 
night. In the Majors final between Beta and
Pika on Sunday afternoon, Pika 
was victorious.
Schedules for soccer as well as racquet- 
ball, team volleyball, and team table tennis,
can be picked up in the intramural office or 
at the bulletin board.
Sports coming up soon include 3-person 
volleyball, darts, and backgammon. The
roster due dates are this Thursday. Thursday 
is also the day of the next I.M. Board meet­
ing at 12:30 in the gym, room 104.
TheNwespa 7ih9 rofp D
they will be, and shall include the reason 
along with them.
1. New York City: civilian communica­
tions center of the United States. Destruction 
of this target will result in mass communica­
tion difficulties, and probably chaos, which 
is just what the enemy wanted.
2. Chicago: also a vital communications 
center, target for the same reason as New 
York City.
3. Los Angeles: yet another major com­
munications center.
But wait . . . there’s more to it than this. 
Even though the centers of government and 
organization are wiped out, there is always 
the possibility of reorganizing in a new spot. 
Now, I’m not saying that the Soviets will hit 
every spot in the continental United States 
so we can’t possibly reorganize (to do so
would be criminally stupid, and impossi­
ble), but they would probably want to make 
it so that the reorganized United States could 
not have much power behind it. The V 
would definitely want to hit major centers St 
industry. But only major ones; the minor 
centers would be so great as to require more 
nuclear warheads than the Soviet Union is 
capable of producing.
Pittsburgh would definitely go, as a 
major steel-producing city. Yes, I know it’s 
not one now, but the factories could be reno­
vated easily enough. A number of other 
major industrial cities would go; you can 
make up your own list. The United Statec * 
would definitely be in a mess.
But ... as will always be my philosophy 
until I am proven wrong . . . “there will 
always be survivors.”
Jeff Suzuki is a freshman in Information 
Systems and is a columnist for The Tartan.
Did you get your Hill 
Street 
Homecoming T-Shirt?
If not, you have one more 
chance!
ORDER NOW
Take this coupon to the Alumni 
Office, WH 5th floor.
Homecoming 83 T-Shirts
Quantity:
Size: S M L X-L
Price: ($5.00 each)
MICROSYSTE MS
COMPARE OUR PRICES ON IBM/PC PRODUCTS
Software:LISTOUR PRICE
dBASE II$ 700$ 389
1-2-3495325
WORDSTAR495250
VOLKSWRITER195DD
SUPERCALC II2954CD
Printers:
C.ITOH PROWRITER495mCD
NEC 355 SPINWRITER23954LmO
GORILLA BANANA2504LD
Media: (Boxes of 10)
VERBATIM DS/DD66mC
VERBATIM SS/DD49VS
MAXELL DS/DD74mL
MAXELL SS/DD52VL
MONTEREY 
T-SHIRT
WITH PURCHASES 
OVER $100
CALL FOR 
OUR CURRENT 
PRICE LIST
Please make payment to the Alumni Office.
PLUS:
• Hundreds of other Software Products
• Products for Apple, TRS-80, Commodore, Atari
• Boards, Monitors
• Microcomputer Books & Accessories
ROSYSTEMS
P.O. Box 2669 
Pittsburgh, PA 15230 
(412) 456-7478it

---------------------------------------------------

November 1, 1983—The Tartan—Page 21
occer beats Pitt and Frostburg St., but loses in PAC
SCOTT BOZIC
TheNNwsphas
far as Tartan soccer is concerned, 
jg^’s some good news and some bad news 
fjout the team these past two weeks. The 
god news is the team knocked off Pitt at 
itt and defeated Frostburg St., a nationally 
mked team. The bad news is immediately 
ter each win, CMU lost a conference 
latchup, to Case Western and John Car- 
3ll, respectively.
It all began on Wednesday night, October 
i The team travelled down the street to Pitt 
a totally different experience, a night 
e on an astroturf field which is much 
jigger than Tech Field. Pitt took a 1-0 lead 
id held it until the end of the first half, 
ly in the second half, forward Ted And- 
r scored a goal after a comer kick to knot 
e game at one. After allowing Pitt to score 
in, the Tartans tied the game with a goal 
om Caleb Corkery on a throw-in play, 
nding the game into overtime. With five 
inutes left in overtime, Neal Frink blasted 
a goal to give CMU the lead and eventu­
ally a win, 3-2. “That was a game we needed 
to win,” felt Coach Nick Gaudioso. “I was 
afraid our kids would get tired on such a big 
field and on astroturf, especially in overtime. 
But they held up well.”
On the following Saturday, the team was 
surprised by Case Western Reserve, 3-0. 
Gaudioso called the game “a nightmare,” 
saying that “we dominated them, but we 
missed opportunities throughout the 
game,” a statement backed up by the fact 
that CMU outshot Case 19-8, but still lost 
3-0.
This past Tuesday, CMU finished its 
home soccer schedule against Frostburg 
State. The field was extremely muddy, and 
this affected play greatly. The Tartans 
scored first on a goal by Owen Ranta, but 
Frostburg tied the score to make it 1-1 at 
intermission. Midway through the second 
half, Anderer took a comer kick from 
Corkery and put it in the net to give the 
Tartans a 2-1 lead which they would never 
give up.
“This was a great win after the loss to
Case,” was the way Charlie Lockhead felt 
about it. “We kept the ball up to prevent 
them from being able to score on one of our 
mistakes. It worked because they couldn’t 
get the ball in their end as much as they 
wanted to.” When asked about the field con­
ditions, a mud covered Lockhead replied,
“on a field like that anything can happen, 
and it did.”
Unfortunately, the Tartans lost again the 
following Saturday, eliminating all hopes 
erf gaining a playoff berth, something that 
would have been a distinct possibility had 
they beaten Case Western or John Carroll.
Neal Frink helped lead the Tartans to an upset of Pitt
photo by John Rogers
artners endure in struggle for perfection
espa 7ih9 rofp 4D
ket on soccer players also. Fortunately, 
ch Nick Gaudioso got more than he 
ined for with Charlie Lockhead and
eal Frink.
As an all-conference midfielder, sopho- 
ore Lockhead came to CMU after being a 
tandout in high school. What Gaudioso 
ses as “tremendous hitting and leaping 
bility” has helped Lockhead become lead- 
ng scorer. He has led the team to their 5-2 
ecord with one of their losses coming in 
vertime. With a powerful and haid-hitting 
tyle, Lockhead’s soccer mastery renders 
tim a multi-faceted player. According to 
iaudioso, “Charlie will score a goal and 
len be the first man on defense.” 
Complementing him in style and posi- 
ion, Lockhead’s teammate Frink anchors 
lie offense. As a free defender, he can be 
lied upon to keep the ball away from the 
¦fct. Playing with well-polished soccer 
inesse, Frink “controls the ball well.” He 
aiows whom to pass it to, when to pass it 
ind how to pass it. Tied with Lockhead 
hrough September in number of goals, 
rink can score on a free kick from 20 to 30 
ards away from the net. Lockhead and 
7rink are building by playing the sport year 
ound.
In practice and in games they generate a 
vork-minded attitude among the players 
(nd represent the keys to winning or losing. 
Gaudioso firmly believes that both players 
lave the experience to play Division I 
’°ccer, a trait which they have aptly proved
while beating Division I schools.
Field Hockey coach Maser has also put 
together a set of outstanding athletes that 
may spell Pennwood West Champs for the 
Field Hockey team once again. Though this 
is only the first or second year for all the 
players, their record indicates that they can 
work together very well. Co-captains Mari­
anne Sacco and Lynne Otto have been the 
motivating forces behind the team.
Second year player Sacco is a center half­
back for the defense. She is “flexible 
enough” that Maser feels “confident in put­
ting her in the front line if she needs to.” 
Like a genuine pearl, a good field hockey 
player will perform well under any circum­
stances, and Sacco has repeatedly proven 
her playing prowess.
Picked as MVP, Otto also returns from 
last year to fill in as left link. Her “all- 
around ability” and key position allows her 
to play half defense and half offense. The 
offensive aspect of her style made her the 
highest scorer last year while defensively she 
is constandy on the move “going after the 
ball.”
Maser claims that “Sacco and Otto are not 
just the two best players on the team but also 
the two best in the conference.” On top of 
being “good, solid field hockey players” the 
co-captains contribute to the team’s overall 
value with their leadership ability. Able to 
rely on their experience and skill, Sacco and 
Otto can both perceive how a play should be 
executed, and team members will often give 
them an inquiring look when unsure of the
next move.
Not to be excluded from the team theme 
and to reemphasize the fact that pearls look 
better on a string, tennis coach Mark Bush is 
again the curator of a traditionally spectacu­
lar tennis team. Leading the pack and acting 
as flawless prototypes are Senior Pauline Kra­
mer and Junior Laurie Arendas.
As a fourth year veteran, Kramer has 
played consistendv sound tennis through­
out her college career. She has won the dou­
bles championship every year with an 
“excellent first serve,” and her various other 
strokes are refined to perfection. With versa­
tility and experience, Kramer can play the 
net and backfield with equal ease. Kramer 
has a style that “cracks the ball actoss the 
net” very firmly.
Not having quite as good a background 
as Kramer, Arendas can “win a match on 
sheer will.” Her competetive desire is pro­
portional to the rate of change of her abil­
ity. Arendas is constandy working to 
improve her game. Going into every match 
with the belief that she won’t lose, she led 
the team to the conference championship 
last year without giving up a set. Bush notes 
that “she has a strong two-handed backhand 
which can often fool her conpetitors.” 
Though both have played singles against 
Division I and II schools, Bush prefers to 
play the girls in doubles because they have 
good volleys and backcourt strokes.
Contributing to the group effort, Kra­
mer’s and Arendas’ 5-0 season has helped 
maintain the team’s near perfect record.
B’B’ Hillel/PZ Dinner Forum
FREE Deli Dinner and Discussion 
“Israeli Politics: Likud vs. Labor”
presented, by 6 Israeli political party representatives Sunday, November 6 5:30 pmJCC — 315 S. Bellefield RSVP 621-8875
THE NATIONAL CENTER FOR EDUCATIONAL TESTING
LSAT/GMAT MCAT/SAT
tEdtcEcu;M2 
IMnEqdq
^COURSES 
OFFERED
r— NATIONWIDE
for th*
DECEMBER 3 LSATF- JANUARY 28 GMAT
including
Camegie-MellonComplete in-class and supplemental materials 
Simulated exam conditions • Limited class size
IQ AT .O81i Hpfwe5 44zL MUcu I-o55p5 ehv 7hi9wef
IMnEqdq mV81i Hpfwe5 44z4D IMnEqdq 7hi N1p BoeY VL dGo9
For a free brochure and an invitation to a free sample class covering 
the LSAT GMAT exams and the Law School Graduate Business School 
admission process, call now
TOIL FREE (800) 223-2618•r writ«:The National Center for Educational Testing 
1271 Ave. of the Americas. Suite 777 
New ferk. N Y 10020
GUARANTEE: Score In the top 25% or 
take the next course FREE.
Careers in Consulting
Friday, November 4, 3:30 
Baker Hall, Adamson Wing
Presentation by Charles O. Rossotti, President 
of American Management Systems, Inc. AMS is a 
leading computer systems, services, and man­
agement consulting firm. Mr. Rossotti will des­
cribe the nature of their business and outline 
representative projects. He will also discuss car­
reer opportunities at AMS. The presentation is 
targeted toward Information Systems majors 
and Administrationa and Management Science 
majors, but it open to the campus community. 
Refreshments will be served.

---------------------------------------------------

Scotch ’N Soda Drama Club
Carnegie-Mellon’s 
83-84 Fall Production
William Saroyan’s
Hello Out There
directed by Christopher Gray
Tennessee William’s
This Property is Condemned
directed by Renata Stachura
and
Mark Levine ’ s
GAG
directed by Jim Pelton
Showing: Nov. 3 @ 8:00p.m.
4 @ 8:00 p.m.
5 @ 4:00 p.m. 
in the Wherret Room
Tickets: $2. 00 with student I .D.
available at 
Baker Hall Ticket Booth 
Skibo Information Desk
or /
call x3522 and reserve tickets
Funded by Activities f®6

---------------------------------------------------

nouncements.
lassifieds_________
fessional typing: reasonable rates, quick tur- 
ound, pickup and delivery. Shirley 672-0683. 
land - walk to campus. Rents now reduced! 
>mfortable apartments with a/c,-carpet, good 
ecurity, next to bus line. 1-bedroom $269 + elect- 
jc> 2-bedroom $299 + electric. 361-5792. 
lying Fingers word processing. Business or aca- 
emic. Papers, resumes, cover letters, etc. Student 
ates available. Erika Van Sickel 241-1338. 
lesumes - Does your resume Sell You to poten- 
ial employers? We professionally prepare 
esumes designed to get results. Packages availa- 
ile - resume, cover letter, copies, regular updat- 
ng. $20-75. 941-8598.
[Valk to university PRICES CUT! Studios — 
-bedrooms. High rise — elevator. All utilities 
ncluded in rent. Studio - $268,1-bedroom - $364.
1-5792.
ONY-BLANK 90-MINUTE CASSETTE
APE $18.00 BOX OF 10. AM-FM STEREO 
CEIVER WITH SPEAKERS. GETS RCT 
45.00 687-3311.
I yping Word Processing - - Reasonable and 
rofessional. Fast, efficient, excellent results.
esis, dissertations, RESUMES. We strictly fol- 
ow any format required. Confidential. Results 
“anteed. Private word processing classes, 
ly a few minutes from campus. Free disk stor- 
ge. Phone: 836-4923. Answers 24 hours.
YPING jobs sought. Last minute assignments 
ccepted. Editing available. Use latest model 
BM equipment. Fees negotiable. ELLEN: 422- 
55.
akland overlooking Schenley Park. Studio $225 
electric, 1-bedroom $245 + electric. Includes 
ntercom, laundry facilities, free parking, carpet, 
alk to universities and hospitals. 621-2655. 
ill type term papers, dissertations, letters, 
umes, manuscripts and so forth. Reasonable 
rates. Call Shirley before 9 p.m. 521-0534. 
Visiting professor seeks furnished residence, 
ovember-May. Minimum 1 bedroom. Prefer 
garage, walk to CMU. Leave message with Ms. 
McCoy. 578-2182. Business hours.
Mechanical Engineering Students ... Magician 
needs technical help in designing new magic 
equipment. Will pay very well. For information 
call 821-1115.
JACQUELINE’S SECRETARIAL SERVICES
DISSERTATIONS, MANUSCRIPTS, BOOKS
- PROFESSIONAL WORK DONE QUICKLY 
AND ACCURATELY 372-1376 EVENINGS 
WEEKENDS.
JOBS OVERSEAS M/F (Including Australia, 
South Pacific, Europe, Africa, Alaska, Cruise 
Ships, Airlines). All Occupations. Temporary 
and Full Time. $20,000 to $60,000. Call Now! 
206-736-5103 Ext. 145.
Church organist/choir director Weekly 11 a.m. 
service. East suburban. Details 242-4476, 271- 
2077.
Diane’s Secretarial Service Resumes, academic, 
business, and personal typing. Pick up and deliv­
ery available. 464-1618.
Hempfield Recording. Eight track studio includ­
ing ‘state of the art' digital signal processing 
equipment creates excellent opportunity at reaso­
nable fees. Musicians/music students. 864-0786. 
LOST - Antique gold woman’s watch - flexible 
band with buckle clasp - Reward for this senti­
mental object. Call 422-0731.
Sales People Needed High commissions. Work 
your own hours. Must furnish own car. Growth 
opportunity. 462-5524.
Women: are you an Academic Bag Lady? Over 
25, in school, new career? Meet over lunch 12-1 
Thursdays, Lutheran University Center, 4515 
Forbes. 682-6886._____________________________
general
DEUTSCHER STAMMTISCH, Thursdays, 
German Language Table, noon. Morewood 
Dining Room. Students, Faculty, Staff welcome. 
Sponsored by European Studies and Modem 
Language Programs. '
LA TABLE FRANÇAISE, Tuesdays. French 
Language Table, noon. Morewood Dining 
Room. Students, Faculty, Staff welcome. Spon­
sored by European Studies and Modem Lan­
guage Programs.
Attention CMU communtity: it is time for buggy 
once again. Fall freerolls will be held on the 
following Sundays from 6 a.m. to 9 a.m.: October 
30, November 6, and November 13. As in pre­
vious years, they will run through Schenley Park 
on Tech and Frew Streets. For further informa­
tion call x2107.
CIA, Carnegie Involvement Association, holds 
its regular monthly meeting at 9:30 tonight in 
Skibo Room 13. All interested students are
invited to attend. _________________________
The office of Professor Fourgeres has been 
moved to BH 228D. The students who take Self- 
Paced French, 82-103, will meet now in Margaret 
Morrisson 408 instead of in Baker Hall 232-F, 
which is in the process of getting demolished ana 
then rebuilt for other purposes. Every once in a 
while please also look at the BBOARD “82-103”, 
where you may find various kinds of announce­
ment, warnings, tips, etc. . . relating to the 
course 82-103.
Tech House, the Catholic Coop on campus, has 
opening for next semester. For more information 
call x8618 and ask for Lisa or stop by 5125 Mar­
garet Morrison Street before November 14. 
AIESEC, the International Association of Stu­
dents in Economics and Business Management, 
will hold its weekly meeting, Wednesday at 4:30 
in Room 11, Skibo. Students of all majors are 
invited to participate in AIESEC’s international 
exchange and management development 
programs.
POETRY CONTEST A $1,000 grand prize will 
be offered in a poetry contest sponsored by the 
World of Poetry newsletter. There are an addi­
tional 99 prizes worth over $10,000. For a free 
brochure of rules and prizes write, World of Poe­
try, 2431 Stockton Blvd., Dept. P, Sacramento, 
California 95817.
A CAREER AS A PROFESSIONAL ENGI­
NEER Representatives of the Pittsburgh capter 
of the Pennsylvania Society of Professional Engi­
neers will discuss careers in engineering and the 
advantages of professional registration, learn 
how to arrange to take the EIT examination. 
Thursday, November 10, 1983, Skibo Room 11. 
Stop in anytime between 2 p.m. and 4 p.m. Han­
douts and application forms for the EIT exami­
nation will be available._____________________
You are invited to an Informal Bible Discussion 
group that meets on Monday nights at 9, in 
Room 39, Skibo. We are a nondenominational 
group. We look at subjects and situations that 
affect campus life, directly from the Bible. Stop 
by, and feel free to bring a friend with you. If you 
want more information, call either (441-0819) or 
(361-5632), and ask for John.
THE ULTIMATE COLLEGE SPEAKER
Boston Acoustics
BostonAcousticsSpeakers
Smalt affordable, with • Save 10% with school I.D.
a high-priced sound.
($150.00 a pair) • Limited 5 year warranty
Ideal for dorms, dens, 
bedrooms
Route 8 Richland Mall 
Gibsonia, Pennsylvania 
412/443-6160 
(From Pittsburgh 961-0254)LISTENING POST
• Available at both Listening 
Post Locations
5524 Walnut Street (Shadyside) 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 
412/681-8433 
(Service Hotline 681-8488)
Sound on a Personal Level
Denise Connerty, from Beaver College, and Don 
Withrington, from the University erf Aberdeen, 
will be in the H8cSS lounge at 2:30 p.m. on 
November 3, 1983, to discuss their Study Abroad 
Programs.
If ou needed a kidney or a’ «other vital organ to 
liv *... would you be able 11 get one? A Phi O is 
helping the Transplant «>il*an Procurement 
Foundation to find donors. Fo* more informa­
tion, come to the table in Skibo’s Grey Matter on 
Tuesday, November 1st.
Senior Vice President ft» Academic Affairs John 
P. Crecine will have open office hours for stu­
dents between 3 and 5 p.m. in his office, 610 
Warner Hall, on Wednesday, November 23,1983. 
Students who wish to meet with Dr. Crecine 
should telephone his office, 578-2056, to set up an 
appointment.
Anyone that wishes to see Japanese offered at 
CMU and is interested in taking the course 
should sign the petition on the Student Senate 
office door. Skibo 59.
The CMU Investment Group meets every Thurs­
day at 6:30 in Skibo room 11. All interested peo­
ple are welcome.
events
The photographs of Mr. David Kelly will be 
exhibited in the gallery at Pittsburgh Film- 
Makers, 205 Oakland Avenue from November 7 
through November 30. The hours of the gallery 
are Monday through Friday 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. and 
Saturday 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. and before film screen­
ings, 7:30 to 8 p.m.
This program is funded in part by the National 
Endowment for the Arts, the Pittsburgh Founda­
tion, and the Howard Heinz Endowment.
For more information call 681-5449.
The University of Pittsburgh Department of 
Music presents a free concert erf “Music For Two 
Guitars,” Sunday, November 13, 4 pm at the 
Frick Fine Arts Auditorium. James Ferla, a gui­
tar instructor at Pitt, and Timothy Buell, a gradu­
ate student in composition, will perform music 
from the rarely heard duo guitar repetoire. 
Encompassing the music of four centuries, the 
program will include works by Nathaniel Diesel, 
Ferdinand Carulli, Manuel DeFalla, and Guido 
Santorsola.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 24—The Tartan—November 1, 1983
Nov. 8, Noon
Practical and Ethical Issues of Working in the
recently for her Tony-award title role in Medea, is free and open to the general public. Call
Ms. Caldwell’s performance will be held on Sun- Andrew Sicree at 621-2911 for more information
In addition to the choral works, the program will 
feature a short talk on the significant features of
JOE FRESHMAN
Kins AR0ÜM 0 TH I S ^ 
TlW THAT you RÍAU7Í: AN 
UU'NI6HT*#. is ioAbit "Than 
you SUSPÍ6T-
By Mark Levine
íf IS MOüND THIS
Timé That you start ro
ßAR6AIM WITH YoUftSÉUf.
Í1 IS ALSO AROuMD THI* 
T»Mi THAT you RBAL|2f )&(*. 
''0RI6IMS* Book is Inthis
ti(An../\ JyswT I '¦
f J- CO*tO
HOOtt or UM* ì KgO«)
WAKE UP WY / V
¦Lowest Prices In Pgh 
Quality Guaranteed 
¦Convenient Location 
¦Largest Selection of International 
Foods between NY and Chicago 
Friendly ServiceChatham College 
FALL FLING
November 4th & 5th
Bonfire — Chapel
With music and refreshments 
Movie on the Quad 
or Dining Hall if rainFree Street parking Sat & 
Sun
Or Try the new East Bus­
way Express 
From 5th Ave. 
67C/67U/71C 
Wilkinsburg Station is 
just one block from Pgh. 
Asian Center
Saturday
Games on the Quad 
Hot Air Balloon Rides 
Casino Party & Dance 
Mellon Center
noontN22 ,;2IM,2 t?PF
£k\T i I —'
We’re open 7 Days a Week 
10 AM til 6 PM
Located in the Pittsburgh 
Asian Center, 707 Penn Ave. 
Wilkinsburg — 2nd floor 
Next to PNB
Panasonic 
k RCA
For further information 441-8200 x239Sampo
Sony
(412) 731—8810
CAMPUS CONVENIENCESKIBO 40ATRAVEL OFFICE
more events
FACULTY RECITAL Donald Wilkins, organ, 
Calvary Episcopal Church, Shadyside, 
November 2, 8 p.m.
PEACE STARTS WITH US — LEARN 
AGAINST ARMS. A teach-in week of talks and 
films on the arms race, Nov. 5-11.
Film Failsafe SDC Film Doherty 2210, Sat., Nov. 
5, at 6, 8, 10, 12 p.m.
Euromissiles, New dangers from the Pershing II 
and Cruise. Skibo 11, Mon., Nov. 7, 5 p.m. 
Film: The Last Epidemic The medical effects of 
nuclear war. Along with a speaker from Physi­
cians for Social Responsibility. Doherty 1112, 
Mon., Nov. 7, 7:30 p.m. Also showing Doherty 
2315, Thur., Nov. 10, 5 p.m.
Arms Reduction Proposals. Skibo 12, Tues.,
Defense Industry’. Skibo 45, Wed., Nov. 9, Noon 
Religious Perspectives on Nuclear Arms. The 
Catholic Bishops’ statement, as well as other reli­
gious viewpoints. Skibo 45, Wed., Nov. 9, 5 p.m. 
Economic Consequences of the Arms Race. 
Skibo 12, Thur., Nov. 10, Noon 
What You Can Do For Peace. Getting involved. 
Skibo 45, Fri., Nov. 11, Noon 
Information and literature tables wil be in Skibo 
on Monday, Nov. 7, and in other campus loca­
tions throughout the week. Organized by the 
CMU Peace Alliance—our next regular meeting 
will be Wed., Nov. 16, at 5 p.m. in Skibo 12.
The Old Allegheny Festival Choir, under the 
direction of Paul Weber, will sing music dedi­
cated to St. Nicholas at St. Nicholas Church, 1326 
East Ohio St., Northside, on Sunday, Dec. 4, at 3 
p.m.
architect Fredrick Sauer’s St. Nicholas Church, 
which was recognized by the Pittsburgh History 
and Landmarks Foundation in 1976 as an his­
toric and cultural landmark. The church was the 
first Coratian Roman Catholic parish in 
America.
Christopher Durang’s A History of the American 
Film, directed by Larry Arrick, will open at the 
Pittsburgh Public Theater on November 2. The 
production will run through December 11. 
For reservations and ticket information, call the 
PPT Box Office at (412) 321-9800. Information 
about group ticket discounts is available from 
Tom Holm at (412) 323-8200.
The International Poetry Forum’s IV Annual 
Benefit presentation will feature the distin­
guished stage actress, Zoe Caldwell. Noted most
day, November 6 at 7:30 p.m. in Carnegie Lectur? 
Hall. For ticket information, phone 621-9893
Tuesday Night Reading Series at 8:30 o.m. The 
Back Room of Hemingway’s (formerly 
tine’s) on 3911 Forbes Avenue. Featuring: Noyi 
1 — Peter Oresick (poetry), Myron Taube (fic­
tion); Nov. 8 — Ellen Smith (poetry), Margery 
Gulbransen (fiction); Nov. 15 — James Gyure 
(poetry), Hillary Masters (CMU) (fiction); Nov. 22 
—Presentation Reading,
Nationally Recognized Pro-Life Doctor to speal 
at Pitt Dr. Jack Wilke, former President of the 
National Right to Life Committee, and author of 
the “Abortion Handbook" will speak on “Abor- 
tion — Medical and Social Aspects” in Benedum 
Auditorium on the comer of TTiackerv and 
O’Hara Streets in Oakland. The talk will be at 
4:00 pm, this Saturday, Nov. 5, 1983. Admission
