TARTAN
^ Volume 06—Number 17Wednesday, February 15, 1967
Greeks Pledge 205; 
Open Bids Continue
Two hundred and five men pledged Tech’s 12 frater- 
ities Monday night, culminating formal fraternity rush for 
1967. This number is lower than the record 232 who pledged 
at the end of last year’s rush, but still higher than the 169 
who pledged in 1965, the year second-semester rush was re­
instituted.
The fraternities will continue “open bidding” for the 
rest of the school year. Judging from past figures, each 
house expects to increase its pledge class by about 20 per
cent.
Most houses have scheduled their initiations sometime 
in May.
As of Monday night, the pledge classes are:
Alpha Tau Omega (16)—Dave 
Shannon, John Slatosky, Lou De- 
Toro, Dave Malutich, Mike Naf- 
pliotis, Dave Grooseck, Don
? Greene, George Travica, Ron 
Cook, Zack Cartozian, Gary Coch­
rane, Tony Bugel, Don Keebler, 
Bruce Femie, John Softs.
Beta Sigma Rho (14) — David 
Hay, David Grewenig, Marc Sol- 
davin, Harry Patsch, Stuart Fri- 
bush, David Bauman, Mitchell 
Kushner, Alan Siegel, Bruce Rob- 
x bins, Michael S. Luria, Bill Opfer- 
^ man, David Elm, Steve Schwartz- 
man, Phillip Meyer.
Beta Theta Pi (23) — David 
Coulter, Edward Sikoski, Paul 
Wojiak, Mark Hoover, Robert 
Rhodes, Steve Heckman, Freder­
ick Kuo, H. Nelson Crooks, D. 
Michael Stevert, Tom Pierpoint, 
Travis Mercer, Glenn Gilbert, Ro- 
\ ger Ohlson, Bob Heales, Pat De- 
Barros, Henrik Palme, John But­
ler, Dave Gentner, Grant Scott, 
James Glessner, Chuck Ander­
son, Chris Peterson, Mark Davis.
Delta Tau Delta (14) — Dennis 
Biroscak, Raymond Carson, Mark 
DiVecchio, John Foote, Jay Ham­
burger, Bengt Hygren, Tony Law­
rence, Marc Ling, Thomas Mon-
* roe, James Pollock, Richard Rein­
hart, George Smith, Joseph Spa- 
tara, Randy Young.
Delta Upsilon (17) — Samuel 
Stander, Harold J. Konish Jr., 
Eugene A. Salvadore, David A. 
Hey, Edward A. Schneider, Eneo 
G. Klein, Louis Stavis, Jeffrey 
Barnes, Joseph Dorczuk, Ted 
1 Rees, Bruce G. Milliken, Tom 
Markl, Danny Solow, Jay Bren­
ner, Bill Berger.
Kappa Sigma (9) — Willard S. 
Nicholl, Robert H. Van Stone, 
David J. Stermole, Ronald Eck- 
ner, Craig Pollock, Mark Walker, 
Michael Theodorakis, Chuck Tim­
othy, Thomas Rheys.
Phi Kappa Theta (21) — Joseph 
Adreon, Roy T. Carlson, Elry E. 
Cramer, Dale R. Deniston, Michael 
Drosjack, Richard E. Farmer, Ce­
cil Neil Fulchek, Martin J. Kor- 
bim, H. Karl Krummel, William 
Alfred Leber, Alan Gerald Letki, 
Paul Joseph O’Neill, Jeffrey J. 
Polovina, R. William Schuetz, Jr., 
I David Seel, Donald Alvin Shep­
herd Glen A. Smith, Alex Paul 
Symborski, J. Craig Thorpe, Ste- 
ven J. Williams, Kevin Gerald 
Wilson.
(Continued on Page 2)
Foreign Students 
May Send Free 
Records Home
The American Red Cross 
is sponsoring a special 
“Voices to Home” project in 
which any Tech foreign stu­
dent may send a FREE 33 
1/3 rpm message to his fam­
ily anywhere in the world. 
Representatives from the Red 
Cross will be on campus, Tues­
day, Feb. 28 at the Hunt Library 
Second Floor Seminar Room from 
10 am until evening to help stu­
dents with the recording. Any for­
eign student wishing to make a re­
cording should sign-up now at the 
Skibo Information Desk—103 to 
make an appointment. Each stu­
dent must have an appointment 
to make a record. This is a FREE 
service of the Red Cross, and the 
records and postage are donations 
of the Red Cross to Tech stu­
dents.
Music Program 
Aids Trip Funds
A program of music, mostly 
jazz, sponsored by the Music 
Alumni Clan, will be presented 
this Sunday at 8 pm in the 
Skibo Ballroom. Several noted 
musicians will perform, among 
them John Costa, pianist and 
music director of KDKA; Joe Neg­
ri; guitarist and director of 
WTAE; and Dennis Kahle, drums, 
a Tech graduate now at Duquesne. 
Also featured will be the Carnegie 
Tech Jazz Band, who will be rep­
resenting Tech at the Villanova 
Jazz Festival Feb. 24 and 25.
Admission is $1.00 per person, 
and $.50 for students. According 
to Jack Purcell, chairman of the
event, all proceeds will go to­
wards defraying the expenses for 
the Jazz Band’s trip to Villanova.
W RCT 
RECITAL HALL *
1:30 p.m.—Sundays
This week:
The Carnegie String Quartet
ChairmenSought For Orientation, Freshman Camp
Nominations are now open 
for chairmen for freshman 
camp and freshman orienta­
tion. They should be sent to 
Joe Orens, Executive Coun­
cil, Skibo 103 by February 
22.
This method is a departure 
from previous years, when appli­
cations were submitted, and the 
chairmen were picked from the 
applicants. This year, according 
to Joe Orens, president of the 
Student Body, nominations for 
the position are being sought, and 
names will be turned over to a 
steering committee, which will 
investigate each nominee’s quali­
fications, and finally select the 
chairmen.
In addition, this steering com­
mittee will attempt to coordinate 
Freshman Camp and Freshman 
Orientation, and avoid some of 
the previous duplication and prob­
lems between the two programs. 
Operationally, Freshman Camp 
and Freshman Orientation will 
be two programs, each with a 
chairman and staff. However, the 
ultimate proramming for each 
will be more cohesive and will 
avoid favoring those freshmen at­
tending camp.
Applications for Freshman 
Camp and Freshman Orientation 
will be available in Skibo 103, 
Monday, Feb. 20. From these ap­
plicants, counselors for camp and 
staff for the orientation program 
will be selected.
New Programs Allow 
Wider OCS Chances
Sophomores, Seniors, and Graduate Students who did 
not participate in the ROTC program at Tech may now be 
qualified to earn an officer’s commission in the United 
States Army Reserve.
Students Choose CIT Cover Girl
Sue Corrigan
Campus Roto Candidate 
Susan Corrigan, a junior Fash­
ion Design major who models at 
Gimbel’s downtown, is Tech’s 
1967 Campus Cover Girl. She was 
chosen from five contestants in 
an all-school election last week. 
Judy Cornell was runner-up in the 
voting.
Susan will now compete with 
Cover Girls from other area 
schools in the Pittsburgh Press’s 
Campus Cover Girl of 1967 Con­
test. Pictures of all finalists will 
apear in the Press Roto Magazine 
on Sunday, March 19.
Haan Forms Committee 
For WRCT Investigation
Student Senate representative Ron Haan has organized 
an ad-hoc Senate committee to investigate the programming 
policy of radio station WRCT. According to Haan, the pur­
pose of the committee is “to decide what kind of program­
ming we want on the Tech campus.”
Other members of the committee are Rich Stafford, 
chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, Doug Kemerer, 
Kadi Krummel, and a yet unnamed representative from Pi 
Delta Epsilon, the journalism honorary.
The investigation, says Haan,
was prompted by the dismissal 
last semester of WRCT Program 
Director Barry Comet by Bob
Stever Speaks 
To Open Forum
President H. Guy ford Stever 
will address an open forum on 
Carnegie University at 11:30 
am Feb. 21, 1967 in Skibo Ball­
room. The program is intended 
to present students with an 
overall picture of the new uni­
versity, and how their aca­
demic lives will be affected. 
Several prevalent questions 
concerning the university will 
be answered. In addition, the 
forum format is intended to de­
velop a dialogue betwen Presi­
dent Stever and students in or­
der that student questions and 
comments can be answered.
Nickau, general manager of the 
radio station. Comet’s program 
policy included classical music, 
poetry readings, dramatic presen­
tations, and critical “talk” shows, 
with greatly reduced amount of 
rock ‘n’ roll and popular music.
The present WRCT schedule 
is chiefly rock ‘n’ roll, Jazz, and 
Broadway music.
Cornet Report Requested
As the first step in its inquiry, 
the WRCT Investigation Commit­
tee has asked Comet to prepare 
a report listing “what the prob­
lems are” with WRCT’s present 
programming, and the possibil­
ities for program change. He will 
be assisted by the three former 
WRCT staff members who resign­
ed after his firing.
The committee will present 
this report to General Mana­
ger Nickau and ask for his 
comments. It will then evaluate
(Continued on Page 2)
Participation in these officer 
training programs is voluntary, 
and definitely commits a person 
to fulfilling his six-year military 
service obligation as an officer in 
the United States Army Reserve. 
The alternative is the uncertainty 
of the draft, with the same six- 
year obligation, but serving as 
an enlisted man.
Sophomores who have not 
participated in the first two 
years of the ROTC program 
may compete for entry into the 
last two years of the CIT ROTC 
program. Applicants take phy­
sical, mental, and aptitude test 
this month. Based upon per­
formance in these tests, out­
standing applicants will attend 
a six week Basic ROTC Sum­
mer Camp starting in June at 
Fort Benning, Georgia.
The Army pays travel to and 
from Camp, provides all uniforms, 
food, and housing, and pays each 
cadet about $90.00 per month 
while at camp. Those successfully 
completing camp may enter the 
Advance ROTC course in Sept., 
1967, and earn a commission upon 
graduation in 1969.
Seniors, after they get their 
undergraduate degrees, and grad­
uate studnets, may enlist to par­
ticipate in an Officer Candidate 
School.
New Senior Ruling
This enlistment option is a change 
from an Army Regulation which 
previously prohibited such action 
by students who did not partici­
pate in the four-year ROTC pro­
gram when available at their 
college.
According to the Tech Depart­
ment of Military Science, grad­
uate students should investigate 
this option immediately, since 
a waiting list is building 
which may preclude their ac­
ceptance.
Under the Officer Candidate 
School Enlistment Program a 
man must posses a bachelor’s de­
gree and pass physical and men­
tal examination. If acceptable 
the man enlists in the Army, 
takes eight weeks Basic Combat 
Training, eight weeks Advanced 
Individual Training, and then en­
ters a 23 week Officer Candidate 
School.
Upon successfully completing 
OCS a candidate may be offered 
a commission in the Army. The 
applicant agrees to serve two 
years on active duty as an offi­
cer. This is in addition to the nine 
or ten months spent as an enlist­
ed man in Basic, Advanced, and 
OCS training.
25 Per Cent Attrition 
The candidate for OCS must be 
prepared physically, mentally and 
psychologically for the OCS 
course. The attrition rate for col­
lege graduate is persently about 
25 per cent. Should a man fail to 
complete OCS, he reverts to a 
two-year enlistment program. 
Sophomores interested In the 
two-year ROTC program should
(Continued on Page 6)

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2-CARNEGIE TECH-TARTAN-Wednesday, February 15, 1967
WRCT 
Investigation
(Continued from Page 1)
both sides of the dispute and 
report back to Senate.
Sigma Nu (27)—Dan Adair, Jon 
Arnold, Rick Cohn, Mike Cramer, 
Tom Davidson, Ed Dolbow Ed 
Drozd, Joe Duckworth, Mike Han­
sen, Craig Hough, Jim Janke, Dan 
Josephs, Bruce McKelvey, Merrill 
Moter, Dana Nadeau, Henry Na­
kamura, Jim Neumeister, Fred 
Rial,Dave Ringler, Jeff Rudy, Eric 
Sandgren, Jim Selevan, Dan Stone, 
Steve Strom, Ralph Swoboda, 
Mark Taylor, Tom Wolfgang.
Tau Delta Phi (16) — William 
Arnold, Rick Bessinger, Henry 
Bourg, John Hanchulak, Mark 
Kaminsky, Martin Kaye, Hillard 
Lazarus, Frank Lefkin, Philippe 
Levi, Mark London, James Lun- 
day, Fred Messing, Joe Seltzer, 
Steve Simon, Mark Spirer, Sey­
mour Moskowitz.
{Continued from Page 1)
Pi Kappa Alpha (17) — Chuck 
Bello, Mike Blacktsone, Karl Bros- 
ius, E. Dale Delestienne, Mark 
Emerson, Harvey Hack, Wayne 
Harbaugh, Jack McGovern, Bob 
Pasco, Rod Proto, Jerry Russo, 
Jack Sax, Steve Scher, Bob 
Schwartz, Steve Sherman, David 
Wade, Carl Weber.
by Jeff Ruben
Joe Orens, president of Stu­
dent Government, points out that 
the committee cannot dictate to 
WRCT what programming policy 
it should pursue. But it can, he 
says, use "persuasion”—it can 
recommend, on the basis of its 
findings, whether or not the mem­
bers of Senate should approve 
WRCT’s budget for the 1967-68 
school year. “We decided this 
would be a good time to make 
the investigation,” says Commit­
tee Chairman Haan, “because the 
budgets will be coming up soon.”
The following hand, taken from a recent Cleveland duplicate 
tournament, produced some interesting results, as most players 
who stopped at six made seven and those who bid the grand slam 
were defeated.
North
S: 4, 3 
H: Q, J. 8, 3 
D: A, K, 10 
C: A, K, J, 6 
West East
S: K, Q, J, 9, 7, 6, 5 S: void
H: 9, 6 H: 5, 2
D: J, 9 D: 8, 6, 5, 2
C: 5, 3 C: Q, 10, 9, 8, 7, 4, 2
South
S: A, 10, 8, 2 
H: A, K, 10, 7, 4 
D: Q, 7, 4, 3 
C: void
Opening lead: spade king. ~
ruff to insure the defeat of the 
^ ® S W contract. But when South play-
1C p 1H 2S ed at six, most Easts let the open­
ing lead ride, hoping to find West 
3H P 6H P with the ace. Thus those who bid
timidly were rewarded by the 
unusual distribution. This didn’t 
phase the bold bidders, however, 
because in their seven hearts 
they knew they were right.
Teams are now being formed 
for an intramural bridge league. 
The deadline is Tuesday, Feb. 
21, and the teams may have from 
four to eight members. Rosters 
may be turned in at the IM office 
in the gym.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon (17)—Geoff 
Barnes, Bob Cloyd, Charles Cole­
man, Bob Cunningham, Bruce 
Ewing, Dave Fox, John Good, 
Doug Ketterer, Howie Magid, Bob 
Mayberry, Jake Miklojcik, John 
Risaleti, Jim Rose, Paul Shenk, 
Jon Swierzewski, Larry Vigius, 
Ron Weleski.Theta Xi (14)—Lew Harrold, Tim 
Walsh, Rick Morrison, Jeff Parks, 
Larry Fürst, Chuck Kunesh, Pat 
Keegan, Elliott Sadie, Mario Colos- 
imo, Mike Slobodien, Tom Camp­
bell, Vito Cedro, Mike Zeman, 
Bill Jones.
—William Wolf 
Cue Magarne
JANE PETER FONDA McENERY
in a film bvROGER VADIMnams
iSDKR
(La Curée)
PANAVISION* TECHNICOLOR*
An underbid by North over 
West’s weak jump overcall caus­
ed one pair to stop at six hearts 
through the above bidding. Other 
pairs got to seven, which looks 
like a reasonable contract from 
the North and South hands. At 
all tables West led the king of 
spades, leaving East with a di­
lemma. If he ruffs the opening 
lead, he will get one trick but 
no more, as he can’t reach his 
partner for another ruff. If East 
doesn’t ruff, South will take the 
ace of spades and run off the 13 
tricks, through East doesn’t know 
this. Therefore, against the Souths 
who were at seven, East would
ONEMASCOft • CPUS by Peine
tlPlÖHlS
...... EARS
Ursula Andress 
Jean-Paul Belmondo
NO ONE UNDER IS WILL BE ADMITTED 
UNLESS ACCOMPANIED BY PARENT.
—Wanda Hale. 
N. Y. Daily News1000 9x120, 6x9s, 12x12s, 12x15s, 
etc. Also furniture discounts to 40%
t 5432 Walnut St. 
UH3S6 S SHADYSIDE
10-9 p.m. * 62.1-1025
National Society of Film Critics
A Carlo Ponti Production
Antonioni’s
Vanessa Redgrave
David Hemmings • Sarah Miles
COLOR
These are professionally rewarding careers with a company which has 
been an established leader in electronics research, development and 
manufacturing since 1924. Our projects encompass advanced work in 
such areas as electronic detection and identification, data 
processing and display systems for the Armed Forces, NASA, FAA 
and the aerospace industry.
À Premier Productions Co., Inc. Release
Openings for June graduates in:
• Research — EE: all levels
• Development and Design — BS/MS in EE or ME
• Test Engineering — BS in EE
• Field Engineering — BS in EE
• Publications Engineering — BS in EE or ME
• Project Administration — BS in EE, ME or IE
• Manufacturing Engineering — BS in IE or ME
Assignments in Long Island, New York, and suburban 
Boston, Massachusetts.
For details, see our brochure, ‘‘Electronics at Hazeltine,” at your 
Placement Office and arrange an appointment now.
interviews on campus
February 16, 1967
HAZELTINE CORPORATION
Little Neck, New York 11362
MflVWfRANH ¦-• MtCHAfI PfRTMt .t,BURI SHfWlOVÍ Í IARRVGCIB«! 
»•• .V • » UNITED ARTISTS
SUGGiSTtD fO# MATUM AUDtf NCCS
An Equal Opportunity Employer 
A Plans for Progress Company
3rd WEEK

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, February 15, 1967—CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN—Page 3
Tech Scientists 
Examine Plasma
Two Carnegie Tech scientists 
are currently studying the proper­
ties of plasma, the high-energy 
ionized state of matter, with a 
view, towards solving problems 
in space science and industry.
Dr. Frederick J. Young and 
Dr. Max F. Hoyaux of the elec­
trical egineering department are 
using high-vacuum systems to 
simulate as well as possible the 
conditions of outer space. In 
these evacuated systems they will 
study interactions of plasmas 
with magnetic and electrical for­
ces.
Dr. Young explains that his 
work, as part of Tech’s applied 
Space Science program, may give 
some insights into problems now 
baffling space scientists. Dr. Hoy­
aux says that while his research 
is not now of industrial interest, 
it may find its way into indus­
trial and domestic applications 
in coming years.
Equipment for the project is be­
ing financed by a grant from the 
National Science Foundation.
TCF Tape
A taped lecture by John Stott 
will be presented at the weekly 
meeting of the Tech Christian 
Fellowship this Friday at 7 pm 
in Skibo 39. The topic will be 
“Priorities for the Christian Life” 
and will include the elements of 
prayer, Bible study, and personal 
relationships. Everyone is wel­
come to attend.
You're under 25 
but yon drive 
like an expert.
Why should yon 
have to pay extra for your car insurance?
Sentry says you may 
not have to. A simple 
questionnaire could save 
you up to $50 or more. 
Call the Sentry man 
for fast facts.
Dan Donahue
5702 HILLTOP ÀVE. 
795-1393
SENTRY. U INSURANCE
Residence of Distinction
ONE ROOM Kitchenette 
equipped, and bath, beauti­
fully furnished — $155. up.
?
3 ROOM APARTMENT, very 
attractively furnished, $275. 
up.
?
Also . . . UNFURNISHED 1 
and 3 ROOM APARTMENTS, 
when available. j? i
FAIRFAX HOTEL ;
4614 5th AVE. Phone: 621-4030 <
AIP Sponsors 
Physics Films
Tech’s American Institute of 
Physics, in cooperation with the 
Department of Physics, is spon­
soring a Monday evening series 
of films on topics in modern phy­
sics. The presentations are at an 
introductory level, and the public 
is invited. All films begin at 7 pm 
in DH 2210.
The following topics will be in­
cluded: Feb. 20, The Ultimate 
Speed. Feb. 27, Time Dilation; 
Mar. 6, The Size of Atoms; Mar. 
13, The Franck-Hertz Experi­
ment; Mar. 20, Matter Waves; 
Apr. 3, The Millikan Oil Drop Ex­
periment; Apr. 10, The Ruther­
ford Atom; Apr. 17, The Hydrogen 
Atom; Apr. 24, Crystals; Inert 
Gas Compounds; May 1, Vibra­
tion of Molecules; Molecular Spec­
troscopy; May 8, Biochemistry 
and Molecular Structure; May 15. 
Last in the series of Movies by 
Prof. Richard P. Feynman of Cal. 
Tech.
Student Writers 
Invited To SF
The Science -Fiction Club, 
Tech’s newest club, will hold an 
important meeting next Monday, 
Feb. 20th, at 4:30 in Room 55, Ski­
bo. A report on the possibilities of 
obtaining movies will be made, 
and the proposed constitution will 
be discussed.
All students are invited to at­
tend and bring in books to sell »
after the meeting. A discussion 
of student-written SF stories will 
ensue, and everyone is urged to 
bring in a typewritten copy of 
anything he has written, to be 
discussed, and possibly published 
by the club later on.
Then a story will be written by 
the entire groups, in a round rob­
in fashion.
The topic for discussion this 
week will be: Stranger in a 
Strange Land, by Robert A Hein- 
len, with emphasis on the topic 
“Is Heinlein parodying Christian­
ity’s beginnings?”
DONT
fight it.
Get Eaton’s Corrasable Bond Typewriter Paper.
Mistakes don’t show. A mis-key completely disappears 
from the special surface. An ordinary pencil eraser lets 
you erase without a trace. So why use ordinary paper? 
Eaton’s Corrasable is available in light, medium, heavy 
weights and Onion Skin. In 100-sheet packets and 500- 
sheet ream boxes. At Stationery Departments.
Only Eaton makes Corrasable.
EATON PAPER CORPORATION. PITTSFIELD. MASSACHUSETTS
»BW®
Come see how you fit in with the family of companies that gives your career all the 
room in the world to grow.
Humble Oil & Refining company- •Provides more petroleum energy to this
nation than any other domestic oil company—literally No. 1—America’s Leading Energy Company!
Enjay Chemical company- ¦One of the ten largest chemical companies in the
United States. As part of an industry marked by rapid growth, Enjay offers unusually 
strong advancement opportunities.
Esso Production Research company- - Analysis and design work for
drilling and production of natural gas and liquids, reservoir engineering using computers.
Esso Research end Ensineerins compeny— Basic and exploratory
research and development of products and processes, engineering research and process 
design, mathematical research.
Let us tell you about the specific opportunities we have for you. The No. 1 family of companies 
offers a variety of rewarding careers to scientists and chemical, mechanical, petroleum, electrical 
and civil engineers at all degree levels. Our activities include oil and gas exploration and 
production; and manufacturing, transportation and marketing of petroleum and 
petrochemical products—as well as the management of all these.
You can always take a smaller job. Brt only now, at the start of your work in industry, 
are there so many opportunities for a lifetime career with No. 1.
Why not try us on for size—make a date now with your placement office for an interview.
PLANS FOR PROGRESS COMPANIES AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYERS.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN—Wednesday, February 15, 1967
Editorial Skibo - Carnegie's Casfle?
The focal point for a proliferation of student criticism 
and comment in the past few years has been Skibo, with 
the major points of contention being- the inadequacies of its 
facilities, such as lounge areas and recreational areas, and 
a lack of an intimate, informal atmosphere. While the reno­
vation of the snack bar intended to cope with the last in­
adequacy, the general austere condition of Skibo has not 
changed. The lounge remains a sterile white box, the High­
lander Room continues to rest unused and unusable, and 
recreational facilities are still minimal, consisting of ping- 
pong, chess, cards and a music listening room. The Tartan 
Grill is usually filled with students, seeking an oasis from 
the bleakness of the remainder of the building.
The administration, fielding student criticism, has used 
two general answers; 1) there hasn’t been enough student 
support given to recommendations and thus it appears to 
lack the support of most students, or 2) it is incompatible 
with plans or ideas currently being developed to remedy 
the situation. Certainly the first answer is invalid, for in 
the past year and a half, many proposals intended to recti­
fy existing conditions in Skibo have been made. Plans have 
been submitted for altering the lounge, using dividers, com­
fortable furniture, rugs, and other accouterments; they 
have elucidated methods for revitalizing the Highlander 
Room (the plans accompanying; the letter to the editor on 
this page are but one more example); even plans for parti­
tioning the cafeteria allowing contract men unlimited 
seconds of food have been conceived. The Tartan Grill was 
in part planned by students, and the remodelling was ini­
tiated by student pressure.
For these reasons, and because these ideas having 
originated with students indicate student concern, there 
can be no question that improvements in Skibo are needed, 
and that most students find Skibo sadly lacking. Yet with 
very few exceptions, most student proposals passing 
through Student Government have been unsuccessful be­
cause they are deemed incompatible with present plans for 
Skibo. Most of this communication has been one-way, while 
few attempts by the administration have been made to in­
form students of these plans or the bases for administra­
tive thinking in these areas.
This problem has been more general than just Skibo. 
A similar situation developed last year concerning proposals 
for calendar changes. This year, the inadequacy of the book­
store was said to be only temporary since a new bookstore 
is part of the contemplated addition to Skibo. Even when 
students and administrators worked together on the Tar­
tan Grill, the actual operation appeared to be an exercise in 
how to become entangled in red tape.
It is time for a radical departure from this situation. 
While most areas of major student concern have been well 
defined, such as the inadequacies of Skibo, the bookstore, 
the present Tech Calendar, and the Men’s Dorms, the ad­
ministration’s plans or interest in these areas have not been 
communicated. Guidelines or boundaries in these areas are 
needed in order that students can be more effective in pre­
senting their comments. Pertinent questions concerning 
Skibo, such as how large will the addition be, and to what 
extent will student planning be incorporated into the final 
structure. Finally, has any specific time-table for its ini­
tiation and completion been formulated?
To this end, Tartan offers its pages as an open forum 
for administrative feedback on this and other areas of stu­
dent interest.
_oarnegle tech__TARTAN
RICHARD G. SEXTRO
Executive Editor............................................................SUE ATTINSON
Managing Editor.......................................................ERIC FELDMANN
Business Manager..........................................................JUDY BIRKEN
Desk Editor.......................................................................BRUCE GELIN
News Editor.................................................................Mike Vargo
Sports Editor......................................................Larry Sikon
Photography Editor....................................Mark Kaminsky
Local Advertising Manager........................Joan Jaques
Notional Advertising Manager...........Patricia Bowman
Layout Editor ................................................Laura Seidler
Secretarial Editor.........................................Diane Cushing
Circulation and Layout Advisor...............Dave Rodgers
Printing Production Manager.........Harvey A. Shapiro
Printing Production Staff: Henrik Und, Barbara Mom«
Executive Assistants: Candy Elkin, C. W. Se ley.
News Staff: Elaine Bearer, Tim Brendel, Linda Cameron, Jeff Evans, Ellen Levine, 
Richard Morrison, Dian« Samuels, Joanne Schneider, Louise 
Schwerin, Jeanne Siegel, Rich Steffens, Joan Sztyga, Selina Wang, 
Linda Wenzel, Carol Nissenson, David Landsberger, Camille 
Badzgon, Chipper Monk 
Sports Staff] Don Boer, Rich Boynton, Elaine Bykowskl, Mke Cooper man, Ron 
Finnin, George Smith, Mike Smolens, Jim Janke.
Layout Staff: Midhael Cramer, Ellen Blissman.
Photography Staff: Michael Perel, David Ben Leavitt, Gordon S. Morris, Sue 
lohmeyer, Mark Kaminsky, Paul Horvath, Pat Stakem, Chris 
Ha usier, Patti Lewi*, La nie London, Fred Rial.
Business Staff: Gail Ekhner, Ted Reel, Tom McGuire.
Typing Staff: Mary Kay Cruikshank, Che ron Gelber, Jean Hammond, Ginny 
McKelvy, Harriet Nadei, Judy Resnik, Carol Robinson.
Editorial Board: Evan ML Molhodo.
Advertising Staff: John Knechtel, Mary Olds, Kathy Schults, Leonard Wanetik,
(La Mar4
* PUBLISHED WEEKLY 
OFFICES: Skibo, Room 50, Forbes Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213—Phone 6B2-4557. 
Annuo! $3 00•------1 rL.» ^ - -*•---->-«-1 _# *»»» »- --B- ¦»—j#cona v,*qm roi»o^t raw ai rTAARN^AVTTo n*.
lipniiotid fpf «fltîow?! Utiny by NotioAoi Advtftiiing, Inc,
Ignore Today, 
Marchers Urge
Letters to Editor
Readers Write
Putlii lot side of Skibo in Junior Archetect Feldkamp's Plans.
Fouets Curée)P urAu
6. ADD PUR.KJ I SWINGS AMD
FIXTURES AS NECESSARY
7. t>WV6UP INT£> STUbENTLOUNGE -RECREATION AREA
New Plans 
For Skibo
Editor, the Tartan:
With regard to the ideas pro­
posed to remodel the Highlander 
Room in Skibo, I would like to 
bring to your attention plans sub­
mitted by William Feldkamp, 
Architecture, ‘69, which I think 
present a much better idea and 
are worthy of consideration (see 
drawings, above).
One of the biggest and most­
voiced complaints against Skibo 
is that it is not a student building. 
Civic organizations and other off- 
campus groups can often be found 
using the Ballroom, Wherrett, or 
Highlander Rooms. To a certain 
extent, and especially in that 
Carnegie Tech has and should 
have an interest in community 
affairs, this is alright. Yet even 
granting the community uses of 
the building, there is no direct 
entrance to the rooms most com­
monly in use. Rather, people try­
ing to find the Ballroom, for ex­
ample, must either enter down­
stairs, often getting lost as they 
try to find the information desk, 
or they enter through the lobby, 
disturbing students or other ac­
tivities.
The plans now before the con­
gress committee take no cogniz­
ance of this difficulty. Instead,
they try to solve the other prob­
lem of lack of students recreation­
al area, by dividing the Highland­
er into two levels. In a way, these 
plans are self-defeating. First, the 
Highlander is set apart from al­
most all other student areas, tne 
Grill, Cafeteria, and the meeting 
rooms. At the front of the build­
ing! it is virtually hidden, mak­
ing it necessary to cross the lob­
by to even get to the hall that 
leads to the room. Second, al­
though the Highlander would be 
used by the public, and there
would still be interferance be­
tween the two activities.
Mr. Feldkamp’s plans, on the 
other hand, take a different and 
hopefully more economical, ap­
proach to the problem. Simply he 
proposes that a stairway be built 
leading into the Highlander from
the sidewalk, over the present
stairway leading downstairs. This 
would make the Highlander into 
a sort of foyer leading directly 
into both the Ballroom and Wher­
rett. With a minimum of work and 
expense, the cloak rooms and 
storage room could be inter­
changed to facilitate this idea. 
Also, the forward part of the 
building could be cut off from the 
student area with doors, thus 
leaving the rest exclusively for 
the use of the students. The prob­
lem of recreational area could be 
looked into elsewhere, perhaps 
dividing the lobby, as a sug­
gestion.
Mr. Feldkamp’s plans have been 
brought to the attention of Vice- 
president Strathmeyer and should 
by now be before the committee. I 
would like to see them presented 
to the student body for their con­
sideration by the Tartan.
Vance L. Rutan 
Math, ‘68
Y Answers 
Bay Criticism
Editor, the Tartan:
This letter is written in re­
sponse to Tim Bay’s comments 
concerning the Friday Cine Series 
(“Through the Looking Glass,” 
Feb. 6). Mr. Bay stated that he 
must “lodge one criticism . . . 
against the people who direct the 
YMCA Friday Cine Series. There 
is nothing more calculated to turn 
my teeth on edge and my thoughts 
toward murder than people who 
take the liberty of cutting large 
sections out of movies. It’s bad 
enough when the third reel comes 
on before the first, but let’s not 
add insult to injury.”
First, we wish to make it clear 
that we are just as interested in 
artistic integrity as Mr. Bay 
claims to be. We have not, and 
would not, “cut large sections” or 
any sections out of movies, nor 
would we knowingly order movies 
that have been so cut. The Cine 
Series endeavors to present films 
of quality in their original ver­
sions, in the language of the ori­
ginal and with all scenes intact. 
If this particularly film, From
A demonstration to abol­
ish February 15th took place 
in front of Baker Hall on 
Tuesday, February 14, at 12 * 
pm. The marchers wore but­
tons with ‘‘Abolish February 
Fifteenth” and carried signs 
bearing slogans such as 
“Even 7 day deodorants ig­
nore February 15th” and 
“14 Si, 15 Nyet. Write your 
Congressman.”
I
The recent organizational meet- 
ing of the Society for the Pre­
vention of February Fifteenth 
(SPOFF) was conducted by Mike 
Diamond and Mike Rubenstein. 
They pointed out that if people 
completely ignore the 15th it \ ill 
cease to exist. The reasons be­
hind the obolition included: Wed­
nesday is a bad day by definition; 
in the past such events as an | 
eclipse which was not visible in 
the U.S.A., plans to assasinate 
France’s President Charles de 
Gaulle, and the sinking of the 
battleship Maine; it occurs ex­
actly one month before the Ides 
of March and two months before 
income tax is due.
Plans were discussed concern­
ing what to do with the time be- i 
tween the 14th and the 16th 
when the 15th is abolished. One 
suggestion was to make both 
these days 36 hours along with 
the days changing at noon. An­
other idea was to make these two 
days 34 hours each with the four 
hours in the middle changed to 
the 30th.
The demonstration was com- 1 
pletely non-political, non-parti­
san, non-religious, and non-ra- 
tional. It was believed it would 
be as sane and as purposeful as 
any demonstration. Plans were 
also made to paint the fence on 
Monday night.
Coffee House Topic
Mr. Eric Springer will discuss 
the “Role of the NAACP in Pitts­
burgh” at the Crumbling Wall 
coffee house, 4515 Forbes Ave., at
10 pm on Friday, Feb. 17. Mr. 
Springer is Associate Research 
Professor of Health and Assistant 
Professor of Health Law at the 
University of Pittsburgh. He also 
serves as the Chairman of the 
Human Relations Committee on 
Pittsburgh.
Here to Eternity, was cut, we 
apologize to the patrons of the 
Cine Series. But we must empha­
size that the responsibility is sole­
ly that of the film distributor.
With respect to Mr. Bay’s sec­
ond point, the incorrect order of 
the reels, again we apologize, but 
again we must disavow respon­
sibility. A projectionist is hired 
from the school’s Teaching Aids 
Center and is responsible for the 
order in which the reels are run. 
There was no intention to change 
the sequence. Moreover, these 
reels have been known to be oc­
casional incorrectly marked.
Both of Mr. Bay’s criticisms 
are perhaps valid ones, but mis­
directed. To blame “the people 
who direct the YMCA Friday Cine 
Series” for difficulties clearly not 
of our own making and to sug­
gest that we would altar or know­
ingly show altered films is a 
gross injustice.
Howard Lasnik 
Chairman 
Y Friday Cine Series

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, February 15, 1967-CARNECIE TECH TARTAN-Page 5
Foreign Srtger udieoisrM 
aM yRy cstnoeM Hrtseegm
by Mark Kernes erf FPF
The Foreign Policy Forum at Tech has found it necessary to answer the statement 
of the Young Americans for Freedom in the January 10 Tartan. The article comes to 
many conclusions which are erroneous when compared with the facts.
MARX and COCA-COLA
Miles Foreman’s
Loves Of A Blond
by Stan Thomas
Luc-Godard’s Masculine-Feminine is dedicated to the generation 
of Marx and Coca-Cola. So might be Milos Foreman’s Love of a 
Blonde. This film which was selected to open the fourth New York 
Film Festival is a Yugoslavian import about the life of a blonde in 
a provincial industrial town that seems to have a shortage of young 
men. Our heroine, however, possibly knows that blondes are sup­
posed to have more fun and more loves.
The climax of the film comes when our heroine decides she is 
in love with a young pianist and so packs up and goes to visit him 
in the big city, which in this case is Prague. The pianist, however, 
is not at home but is in the process of getting himself into another 
girl’s room; his parents are completely mystified as to who the girl 
is and why their son invited her. When the pianist does come home, 
the scene that ensues sends our heroine back to her provincial life, 
and her job at a shoe factory.
Although the film has some delightful sequences, mainly involv­
ing the pianist, I find it too reminiscent of the English working class 
films of several years ago — most notably Saturday Night and Sun­
day Morning and A Taste of Honey. In fact, the film seems to be an 
;>Iron Curtain version of both these films.
Although I have nothing against Yugoslavian versions of Eng­
lish films, I found this comedy a little too slight and not quite de­
lightful enough to warrant all the attention it has received.
(Contemporary (Commentary
multiversity
The problem of self-preservation, from which it has been so 
well insulated for centuries, now faces modem academe. Colleges 
t now find themselves in the position of small businesses in competi­
tion with huge corporations; they cannot operate profitably and are 
more and more being faced with the choice of succumbing to the 
aid and influence of the public sector, or to a larger university. The 
multiversities that are developing threaten to stifle the individuality 
of learning, in return for the ability to finance sophisticated research 
centers.
THE MOST PROBABLE NEXT STEP towards multiversity may 
be taken by the long-independent Catholic universities. The need to 
^ merge with secular institutions in order to guarantee facilities and 
" faculty is being recognized by Catholic educators. Dr. James Lee, 
head of the department of education at Notre Dame, in a major 
study soon to be published, recommends that the Catholic schools, 
in order to avoid being outclassed, become separate colleges in large 
universities. Students might then enroll at the Caholic school within 
the university, be influenced by the Catholic school, but take their 
courses anywhere within the university complex.
Webster College in Webster Groves, Mo., has just declared itself 
a secular institution, in order to open up possibilities of union with 
local universities. Other Catholic schools such as St. Louis Univer- 
| sity and even Notre Dame are offering more power to the laity.
The multiversity offers the problem of being unwieldy r.nd 
cumbersome. Experiments in education have more often come from 
the smaller and more independent situations. A central administra­
tion may prove stifling; a reverse proof might be seen from the 
autonomy granted the individual campuses of the University of 
California, by liberal former-president Clark Kerr. The empathy of 
a board of directors with the academic needs of the student of a 
university is inversely proportional to the size of the school .
THE INTEGRITY OF THE VALUES of the individual school may
* be lost within a huge complex. Such action as Columbia University’s 
anticipated withholding of student status from draft authorities is 
inconceivable within an organization that can regard its vast num­
bers of students as only so many keypunch cards.
Even though Yale’s president, Kingston Brewster, has declared 
that Yale will stay a “miniversity,” the trustees of Yale have offered 
an invitation to Vassar College to come to New Haven and cohabit 
with Yale in a type of Harvard-Radcliffe relationship.
These rumblings offer indications of what expansion-minded 
college administrators within Pittsburgh could create. The concen- 
? tration of Carnegie University, Pitt, Chatham, and Duquesne could 
conceivably be molded into a large complex at the cost of the in­
dividuality and prestige of the superior schools.
Memorial Lecture
Dr. Gerharfl Derge, professor 
°f metallurgy and materials sci- 
ence at Carnegie Tech has been 
chosen 1967 Howe Lecturer of the 
Metallurgy Society of the Amer­
ican Institute of Mining, Metal- 
lurgical, and Petroleum Engineers 
'AIME).
Dr. Derge will deliver his hon-
orary lecture to the AIME Feb.
21 at its national meeting to be 
held in Los Angeles.
The Howe Memorial Lecture, 
named after Columbia Univer­
sity’s noted metallurgist and auth­
or H. M. Howe, was begun in 
1923 and has since included the 
most distinguished scientists and 
engineers in iron and steel metal­
lurgy.
The YAF consistently uses the 
phrase “communist aggressors.” 
This phrase is in itself a con­
clusion, and it presents a very 
unclear picture. Who is the “Com­
munist aggressor”? According to 
Mike Mansfield (Senate Majority 
Leader), of the 230,000 Viet Cong 
inside South Vietnam, only six
per cent are of the North Viet­
namese People’s Army. In fact,
it was benerally conceded that 
during the Diem administration, 
if a vote had been taken, the Com­
munist candidates would have 
had an overwhelming majority.
Humanity Only Obligation
According to Donald Duncan (a 
Green Beret who quit after re­
ceiving a commendation for bra­
very from Secretary of Defense 
McNamara), “One of the first
axioms one learns about uncon­
ventional warfare is that no in­
surgent or guerrila movement can 
endure without the support of the 
people.” And the Communists are. 
winnning, because they do have 
the support of the people. There­
fore, it is obvious that we have 
no “normal obligation” (the YAF 
contention) to be in Vietnam, be­
cause the people of South Viet­
nam don’t want us. If we have 
any moral obligation to anyone, 
it is to humanity—an obligation 
to stop our troops from slaughter­
ing fellow human beings.
Consider some history: the 
first Premier of South Vietnam, 
Diem, was trained in tactics 
at Michigan State University, 
by CIA men hired as faculty 
members. These CIA men con­
tinued to advise Diem under 
the cover of the MSU Project 
until I960.
Nguyen Cao Ky, the ninth Pre­
mier, has publicly stated that 
his hero is Adolf Hitler. Yet we 
support Ky why? To again re­
fer to Donald Duncan, “It’s not 
democracy we brought to Viet­
nam — it’s anti-Communism.” 
What does this statement mean? 
Simply that the U. S. government 
will support and has supported 
a Fascist regime rather than the 
wishes of the majority of the peo­
ple: Communism.
Expansion No Threat
Many support our position in 
Vietnam through the Domino 
Theory: that if we don’t fight the 
Communists in Vietnam, we will 
have to once they turn up in San 
Francisco Bay. Consider that the 
average Vietnamese is starving 
and has an average income of 
$85 per year. If those are the 
people that will be invading us, 
they will have to row into the 
bay in canoes. They don’t under­
stand and can’t afford anything 
more expensive.
The YAF feels that We-M 
War Three may develop from 
the Vietnam War. Who will start 
it? Neither the State Depart­
ment nor the Saigon govern­
ment claim that Communst 
China is actively participating 
in the War. The question arises, 
however, concerning whether or 
not, after we win total victory 
in Vietnam (which would re­
quire the extermination of most 
of South Vietnam’s inhabitants) 
through the YAF plan, we would 
be satisfied, or whether we 
might not want to liberate 
China also? True, this is only 
our own Poanino Theory in re­
verse, but if one wishes to ap­
ply it one way it is only fair 
to try the other.
The time to act is now! Gen­
eral Hershey expects to have 
480,000 troops in Vietnam before 
the end of the year. The poor 
people of our own country are 
being neglected in order that 
more money may be used to es­
calate the as yet unofficial War.
The FPF policy is this: All 
U. S. troops, advisors, et al must 
be immediately withdrawn from 
South Vietnam. Our country’s du­
bious prestige is not worth the 
cost of one more American boy’s 
life. We must pull out now!
Anthone Review
Underground Films-Part II
by Tony Lawrence
What began as a promising activity last summer has begun to 
fall by the wayside. I’m speaking of last Thursday’s presentation of 
a second group of underground films. First of all I think it might 
be in order to ask exactly what is meant by an “underground” film. 
Is it a film made exclusively “underground”? Is it because the crea­
tors of these movies live “underground”? Perhaps at the next show­
ing (March 6) someone will make it clear. One of the annonyances 
was that five of the scheduled films were not shown. The substitu­
tions were generally unmemorable except for an excellent animated 
one (which I saw in Los Angeles last year) concerning a young 
man’s devastating battle with a huge block letter “A.” A last min­
ute choice was a film by Kenneth Anger (Scorpio Rising) which was 
a meaningless visual exercise of a person running through the Ti­
voli fountains. Songs of the Prarie by Jan Trnka was fair. But again 
the question arises—is this an underground film or a children’s film? 
Th,e only interesting element about The Award Presentation to Andy 
Warhol was seeing Mr. Warhol without his sunglasses. Other than 
that, the film was not a successful parody. Of the lot, Super-Up by 
Marv Gold was the best. It had a good soundtrack and some well 
executed shots. Mogubgub’s Pop Show was also fun, very campy, 
and went at a fast pace. I suppose it was the way in which th|e! 
showing itself was handled that I didn’t care for. The people who 
present the underground films are anonymous and though the nar­
rator has some snappy patter, a program would be bettjer. Also 
where were the posters that were promised at the door? Even the 
repeat showing of Oh Dem Watermelons by Robert Nelson lost 
a bit of its sparkle. Oh Dem Watermelons is, however, one of the 
better underground films around and was a tremendous asset to last 
semester’s successful showing. I think some people will think twice 
before going throw the hassle of getting into Underground Films 
Presentation III.
******
It’s quite late to write a review of Alfie, but I did want to say 
a few things about it. It isn’t an excellent film, but it is a pretty 
good film.
Alfie is a guy who flies from bird to bird.* Through a device used 
by director Lewis Gilbert, which is having Alfie talk directly to the 
camera, Alfie tells us at the end what he is looking for is peace of 
mind and some sort of happiness. I thought of it as a kind of femi­
nine Godot. Alfie realizes the emptiness in his life when one of his 
more satisfying conquests named Ruby (of whom he exclaims: “She’s 
in fine condition”) throws him over for a younger man.
In short, that’s primarily what Alfie is all about. Michael Caine 
does a nice job as Alfie, but I can’t help thinking that he’s playing 
himself to some extent. It has been said that Caine has what Bo­
gart had. Well, Bogi,e didn’t really show that he was a fine actor 
until has last film, The Caine Mutiny, playing a superb Captain 
Queeg. True, they both have a tremendous screen magnetism, but
I wonder if that’s what acting is all about. It may be a while before 
Michael Cairyp proves himself to be a great actor. At present, he 
seems to be from the Sean Connery School of Acting. Shelly Winters 
as Ruby only appears for a few brief scenes and is good. I loved 
the moment when Alfie asks her what her new young man has that 
he doesn’t. She replies, “He’s younger than you are—got it?”
The movie is worth seeing just for an excellent performance 
by Vivien Merchant. Miss Merchant (also Mrs. Harold Pinter and 
star of The Homecoming on Broadway) is the middle-aged wife of 
an older man that Alfie meets in a sanitarium where both men ere 
being treated for tuberculosis. Alfie is released before the husband 
and promptly makes love to Miss Merchant and impregnates hier. 
Abortion is their only solution and there is an unforgetable mo­
ment when she becomes hysterical and terribly confused as to what 
has happened to her. The performance all the way through is the 
epitome of subtle brilliance, combined with great intelligence as 
an actress. Jane Asher (Paul McCartney’s sometime girlfriend) is 
also good as one of Alfie’s birds. Lewis Gilbert’s brother, John, pro­
duced the film, and Sonny Rollins is responsible for the effective
score. Alfie is currently on view at Chatham Cinema._________
*An English colloquialism meaning female.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN-Wednesday, February 15, 1967
Degree Candidates in:
BS, MD Ph.D degrees in Ch.E.
BS, MS degrees in CE, EE, Me.
MS, Ph.D. degrees in Chem.
Ph.D. degree in MetE, Physics 
BS degree in Biology.
Meet the Man 
from Monsanto
February 21 & 22
Sign up for an interview at your placement office.
This year Monsanto will have many openings 
for graduates at all degree levels. Fine positions 
are open all over the country with America's 
3rd largest chemical company. And we’re still 
growing. Sales have quadrupled in the last 10 
years ... in everything from plasticizers to 
farm chemicals; from nuclear sources and 
chemical fibers to electronic instruments. Meet 
the Man from Monsanto —he has the facts 
about a fine future.
An Equal Opportunity Employer
ocs
{Continued from Page 1) 
immediately visit the Military 
Department, Baker Hall room 
ISO, to complete arrangements 
for testing and attending the 
Basic Camp this summer.
Graduate Students and Seniors 
can obtain more information 
about the OCS from the Military 
Department during Feb. When in­
duction procedures reach a cer­
tain strageit may be too late to 
volunteer for the OCS program. 
Interested applicants can take the 
tests and physical examinations 
prior to graduation, with no com­
mitments, in order to ascertain 
whether or not they are qualified 
to enter the OCS program.
Beauty Contest 
Entries Wanted
Contestants are now being ac­
cepted for the Miss Allegheny 
County Pageant to be held April 
15 at Mt. Lebanon High School 
Auditorium. Single girls between 
the ages of 18 and 28 who live in 
Allegheny or attend college here 
may obtain detailed information 
by writing: Miss Allegheny Coun­
ty Pageant, P. O. Box 11695, Pitts­
burgh, Pa. 15228. The deadline is 
March 10. '
Tiie winner of this pageant will 
repredent the county in the Miss 
Pennsylvania Pageant, which is 
an official preliminary to the Miss 
American Pageant to be held in 
Atlantic City this September.
GUITARISTS!
.???????????????????????t???????????????????????? 
* *
*
i IT IS CONVENIENT ... IT IS TIME SAVING . . . COME TO:
* 214 South Craig St. (at Winthrop)
* For Your Guitar Repairs . . . Strings and Accessories
J BRINLEY TRUE . . . Guitar and Violin Maker
*
EXPERT and ARTISTIC REPAIRING
^ PHONE: 621-0756 EVENINGS BY APPOINTMENT: 421-9062 *•
* ?
CAREER NEWS FROM HUGHES
Aerospace Divisions in Southern California
NEW AND CONTINUING 
PROGRAMS AND PROJECTS
PHOENIX Missile & Fire Control System 
SURVEYOR Lunar Landing Spacecraft 
Synchronous Communications Satellites 
TOW Anti-Tank Missile System 
ATS (Applications Technology Satellites) 
AIM-47A/AIM-4E Missiles 
VATE Automatic Checkout Equipment 
CORDS
These examples of Hughes Aerospace activities are rep­
resentative of more than 230 major product and service 
capabilities ranging from aerospace vehicles to ASW sys­
tems. Diversification such as this promises long-range 
stability both for the company and its employees
NEW MISSILE SYSTEMS DIVISION
More than 1,600 engineers, scientists and technicians are 
now at work on expanding R & D programs at Hughes 
new 85-acre Canoga Park complex in the San Fernando 
Valley. Unexcelled facilities and the professional atmos­
phere at Hughes encourage creativity and achievement.
IMPORTANT OPPORTUNITIES, steady
growth, diversification, long-range stability, professional 
atmosphere, advanced facilities, fir.v living conditions — 
these are the advantages which Hughes Aerospace Divi­
sions can offer you at Culver City and Canoga Park 
For additional information and to arrange an appointment 
with our Technical Staff Representatives, please contact 
your College Placement Office or write: Mr. Robert A 
Martin, Head of Employment, 11940 W. Jefferson Blvd . 
Culver City, California 90230.
HIRES OF
ENGINEERING
GRADUATES
Additions to Engineering Staff
104
851
j|j
2S0 (est) 
243 ¦II
19631964196519661967
Of the over 12,000 employees of the Aerospace Divisions, 
over 5,000 are Members of the Technical Staff. Average 
experience is 11.7 years. Average age is 37.9 years.
HUGHES-CULVER CITY/CANOGA PARK
Hughes Aerospace Divisions at Culver City, and Canoga 
Park offers Engineers and Scientists a unique combina­
tion of urban and suburban advantages. Located adjacent 
to major freeways. Los Angeles Civic Center is about a 
half-hour distant — beaches, just a short drive. Attractive 
residential neighborhoods are nearby. U C L A., U SC 
and Cal Tech offer outstanding educational facilities.
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS 
February 20
HUGHES
HUGHES AIRCRAFT COMPANY 
AEROSPACE DIVISIONS
An equal opportunity employer / U S citizenship required
Museum Group 
Presents Films 
On French Art
Four free films on French 
art styles will be shown in 
the Carnegie Institute Lec­
ture Hall, Oakland, this Sun­
day at 3 pm. The films are 
Images Medievales, The 
Charm of Life, The French 
School of Painting, and The 
Anaemic Cinema.
Images Medievales is a study 
“of life in the Middle Ages as re­
corded in detailed miniatures of 
illuminated manuscripts of the 
14th and 15th centuries” and fea­
tures a musical background of 
medieval melodies.
The Charm of Life, a first-prize 
winner at the International Film 
Festival, focuses on paintings 
which “were winners of the Prix 
de Rome at a time when paint­
ings by Dezanne, Renoir, and Pi­
casso were being laughed ofE the 
walls ... a sophisticated parody 
of a particularly vulnerable per­
iod in art, a delightful mockery 
of false ideals."
The French School of Painting
begins with traditions establish­
ed by such artists as Matisse, Pi­
casso, and Dezanne, and traces 
their influences through to repre­
sentatives of the younger genera­
tion now working in Paris.
The Anaemic Cinema, filmed 
by Marcel Duchamp in 1926, is 
representative of the style of mo­
vie-making called “The School 
or Paris” and has been called 
“characteristically Dada.”
These films are being shown 
by the Women’s Committee of 
the Carnegie Museum of Art and 
are free to the public.
Students, Faculty 
Join At Fireside
The Tech Y is again sponsoring 
a series of International Firesides 
which bring together foreign and 
American students in a faculty 
home for informal conversation.p*Two Firesides have already been 
held at the homes of Prof. Gold­
stein, Psychology and Prof. Ford, 
History. Other Firesides have 
been scheduled at the homes of 
Prof. Harold Day, Civil Engineer­
ing (Feb. 19), Prof. Claude Lupis, 
MMS (March 12), and Prof. Ser­
gio DeBenedetti, Physics (April 
237. More information on these 
and other Firesides may be ob­
tained at the Y office, 57 Skibo.
Far from stereotyped
but close to graduation?
The man from Ford Motor 
Company wpuld like to talk 
to you if you have a yen to 
join the people who come up 
with better ideas in almost 
everything from automotive 
marketing to steel-making 
to basic research.
Whatever your major—arts, 
science or business—if you 
want to work on a better idea 
team, we may have a place 
you'll like at Ford Motor 
Company.
Call your placement office 
right now for an appointment.Dates of visitation:
March 1 st, 2nd

---------------------------------------------------

LEWIS
Safrs-Repairs
RADIO - ELECTRIC CO. 
SUPPLIES 
RADIOS 
HIGH FIDELITY 
TELEVISION 
RECORD PLAYERS
JOHN M. ROBIKIS' SON ("
if she doesn’t give it to you...
—get it yourself!
sift ut
Cologne, 6 oz., $4.50 
After Shave, 6 oz., $3.50 
Deodorant Stick, $1.75 
Buddha Cologne Gift Package, 
Spray Cologne, $3.50 
Buddha Soap Gift Set, $4.00 
Cologne, 4 oz., $3.00 
After Shave, 4 oz., $2.50SWANK, NEW YORK - SOLE DISTRIBUTOR
CLASSIFIED
FOR SALE — 1962 Sunroof Se­
dan, 31,300 miles. Good con­
dition. Radio, 5 excellent tires, 
plus two snow tires. Original 
owner. $795. Daytime Ext. 541, 
621-2600. Evenings 681-2973.
BABYSITTER—Every other Thurs­
day afternoon, noon to five.- 
D'etails can be worked out. Fac­
ulty family living in Squirrel 
Hill area. Call 421-8326.
Wednesday, February 15, 1967—CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN-Page 7
Altizer Describes Ideas, 
Compares With Rubinstein
Carnegie Tech’s Death of God series continued Febru­
ary 6 as Dr. Thomas J. J. Altizer of Emory University pre­
sented “A Christian Understanding of the Death of God.” 
Beginning at 4:30 in Skibo Ballroom, Dr. Altizer addressed 
a large audience of students and local clergy, and continued 
his explanations through dinner and a discussion with Dr. 
Richard Rubinstein, chaplain to Jewish students, until al-
Pittsburgh-429 Wood St.
Mt. Lebanon-731 Washington Road 
East Hills Shopping Center
—Tartan Photo by J. O. Hausier
Tech audience is challenged by the radical theology of 
Dr. Thomas J. Altizer
In response to questions, Dr. 
Altizer pointed out also the 
changing role of the Bible: 
whereas the traditional church 
accepts it in a literal fashion^ 
modern theologians are ap­
proaching in a way character­
istic of modern-day criticism. 
He also reiterated and clari­
fied his earlier points during 
the short question period.
The rest of the evening was 
primarily devoted to further
Pittsburgh’s Oldest Fine Jewelers Since
If she has long slender fingers she will admire this 
solataire in gleaming 18 Kt. White Gold
Terms arranged
Dr. Altizer opened his Ballroom 
address with general considera­
tions of the meanings of God in 
the modern world, saying that 
the traditional historical God is 
now in eclipse. “Death” he in­
terpreted to mean the death of 
the awareness of God as a source.
Three Expressions 
Keeping away from highly tech­
nical or deeply philosophical des­
criptions, Dr. Altizer then sum­
med up his impressions of radi­
cal theology in terms of three ex­
pressions: (1) the transformation 
from theology based on God to 
a study in which the totality of 
God is present in Christ; (2) the 
transformation of theological lan­
guage into secular language, ex­
pressing the increasing linguistic 
isolation of the Church; and (3) 
the weakening of the concept of a 
dualistic God who is simultane­
ously affecting the “here and 
now” world and the higher world 
of order and authority.
clarification of Dr. Altizer’s views 
and comparison of them with the 
ideas of Dr. Rubinstein, who is 
also deeply involved in modem 
theology.
Movement Still Young 
Perhaps the most significant 
statement of the day was Dr. Al­
tizer’s evaluation of the degree of 
development of radical theolo­
gies. They arose, he said, out of 
criticisms of the current church 
which are widely admitted among 
theologians. Two groups of theo­
logians thus sprung up, one try­
ing to solve these problems 
through traditional methods, and 
the other proposing a basically 
new framework in which to 
(Continued on Page
Twohuwnwdr e e PRICE $275
YMCA Plans Summer Job 
Opportunities Here, Abroad
Foreign lands and unusual opportunities form the key­
note for a variety of summer projects now being made 
available to Tech students by the campus YMCA. Commun­
ity service here and abroad, as well as educational oppor­
tunities, are included in currently planned assignments.
A nine-week project in the , 
Middle East, with a seven-week 
stay in Lebanon, will give a few 
students a chance to participate 
in community projects and meet 
prominent officials in the area. 
The return trip includes a visit 
to Athens, Greece.
A project to aid high school 
students in learning English is 
available for a student wishing 
to spend a summer in Finland, 
with visits to Finland, Poland, 
the USSR, East and West Ger­
many, and Switzerland.
In Latin America, opportunities 
are open for volunteers in health 
clinics, children’s camps, play­
grounds, and community centers. 
In Trindad a seminar is planned 
in which students can consider 
problems faced by countries pass­
ing from colonial to independent 
status.
U. S. Opportunities
Within the United States, proj­
ects are available in numerous 
places including Appalachia, 
Washington, D. C., New York 
City, and the California State 
Colleges.
Forty students are needed to 
help residents of rural West Vir­
ginia communities, while a Citi­
zenship Seminar at George Wash­
ington University offers students 
three credits in the Graduate 
School’s Department of Agricul­
ture. Social agencies working 
with New York children need 
employees, and California State 
Hospitals on the University Cam­
puses will accept students as paid 
hospital staff members.
Other opportunities in Asia and 
elsewhere offer more chances for 
travel and study. Full informa­
tion on all projects is available 
from the YMCA Office in Skibo
Theater Dramas To Be Discussed
The current Pittsburgh Play­
house production of two one-act 
plays by Arthur Miller will be the 
subject of Drama/Dialog V on 
Friday evening, Feb. 17th.
Drama/Dialog is a theatre “par­
ty” for university students at the 
Playhouse with discussion follow* 
ing the plays. It is sponsored by 
the Wesley Foundation of Pitts­
burgh.
The two Miller dramas at the 
Playhouse are “A View From 
the Bridge” and “A Memory of 
Two Mondays,” both in their ori­
ginal versions.
The admision price for play 
and discussion is $1.50. Reserva­
tions may be made at the Tech 
YMCA (office 57 Skibo) or by 
calling Lowell Haynes, 681-5906. 
Reservations must be made by 
Thursday, Feb. 16.
—K— M >t  1 "¿t x y —« WALLY S
CAMPUS-FAVORED Men 
HUSH-PUPPIES 
LOAFERS Women |
i BATES FLOATERS HUSH-PUPPIES FLATS
FLORSHEIM LOAFERS DRESS SHOES
• WHITE CLINIC DUTY SHOES 
3612 Forbes Ave., Oakland (Across from Strand Theatre) ‘
¦*-- V ---------- ...- M...... J
(Conntiute a¿
Pittsburgh's Factory Dealer
ROUTE 8, ETNA
For

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN—Wednesday, February 15, 1967
C-BOOK SUPPLEMENT
A Phi O will print a C-Book Supplement to 
correct errors and omissions. All students
YEAR...................................... wishing to make changes in their current
C-Book information should print the correct 
information on the form to the left............
Westvaco... 
part and parcel of 
the huge growth 
in data handling.
Growth industries look to Westvaco for leadership in 
paper, packaging, building materials and chemicals.
Want to grow with Westvaco? With over 20 locations 
to choose from and openings for B.S., M.S. and Ph.D. 
engineers and scientists; M.B.A.’s; business and 
liberal arts majors, we've probably got the career 
combination you seek. Your Placement Office has more 
detailed information and will arrange an interview with 
a company representative. All students considered 
regardless of draft status.
CAMPUS INTERVIEWING ON: March 20th, 1967
West Virginia 
ÀPre mio Àmedu
230 Park Ave., New York, N. Y. 10OI7
YOU KNOW WHERE 
YOU’RE GOING
(Nowwe’ll tell you how to get there)
Go McDonnell. Because when you join 
McDonnell, you’ll work for a world-renowned 
name that stands for leadership and excel­
lence in the aerospace industry. You will 
grow professionally by working in an envi­
ronment conducive to achievement, along­
side scientists and engineers who have 
outstanding technical reputations. And 
you’ll build your future with a research- 
oriented company that’s receptive to new 
ideas. You will also earn an excellent salary 
and enjoy liberal fringe benefits with a com­
pany that is known for stability.
At McDonnell you also get the chance to 
put your personal touch on things while 
helping the team to make a contribution to 
aerospace science. In addition to getting 
management recognition for outstanding 
accomplishments, you’ll have the satisfac­
tion of knowing that you used your head to 
get ahead.
The McDonnell recruiter will show you how 
your degree in science or engineering can 
help you get where you’re going. Be sure to 
chat with him when he’s at your campus 
placement office on February 22.
MCDO/ViVELL
P.O. Box516, St. Louis, Missouri 63166 
An Equal Opportunity Employer
At Sun Oil Companyyou can have your cakem -
Sun Oil Company is a “glamour” 
company. (That surprise you?)
At Sun you work on projects as far 
out as anyone's, in areas ranging 
from petrochemistry to internal man­
agement consulting, from operations 
research to advanced engineering.
Sun Oil Company is also a very, very stable com­
pany, enjoying solid sales and substantial growth 
year after year after year. At Sun when a "glam­
our" project is completed, its people aren’t. There 
is alway a new project to move to, to contribute to. 
And a new, higher position to fill. That’s where 
you come in. If you’re the kind of individual who
wants to be right in the thick of 
things . . . who doesn't think it’s 
old hat to work your way to the top. 
We cordially invite you to find your 
place in the Sun, in a permanent 
or summer position. Visit your place­
ment office now to schedule an appoint- 
mentwithourrepresentativeoncampus.lfyou can’t 
meet us on campus, we'll send you employment 
information. Just drop a note to: Personnel & Col­
lege Relations, Dept. H, Sun. Oil Co., 1608 Walnut 
St., Phiia., Pa. 19103. Sun Oil Company 
An equal opportunity employer m/f
and eat it, too.
We’ll be on campus 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 17th
Death of God
(Continued from Page )
work. Due to its youth, the new 
movement is still on weak pro» 
positional grounds, and a great 
deal of work remains before the 
radical theologies can stand on 
solid ground.
Having- heard three of the 
principal workers who are try. 
ing to clear up the Death-of- 
God controversy, Tech students 
will have their final opportun­
ity when Prof. William Hamil­
ton of Colgate-Rochester Divin­
ity School speaks in the Wher- 
rett Room Feb. 21. He will con-
—Tartan Photo by J. C. Hausier
Dr. Thomas J. J. Altizer
A great deal of work remains ...
sider the ethics of living in a 
work in which God is not pre­
sent.
(Note: Due to Tartan dead­
lines, it was impossible to in­
clude the comments of Prof. Eu­
gene Fontinell as he delivered 
them yesterday in his considera­
tion of “A Roman Catholic View 
of Radical Theology.”)
Duquesne Gives 
Comic Operas
Duquesne University's 
School of Music will stage 
two comic one-act operas 
Saturday, February 18 at 
2:30 pm and 8:30 pm in the 
Recital Hall on the Duquesne 
campus.
Both operas will be sung in 
English. Pergoslesi’s The Maid’s 
Made the Mistress deals with the 
efforts of the master, Bernard 
Tavis, baritone — to elude the 
marital plans of his maid, Lorat- 
ta Thompson, soprano—who is 
aided by the servant, an acting 
role performed by Larry Hop­
kins. In Chabrier’s The Incom­
plete Education, John McConnell 
as the groom seeks the help of 
his tutor, Barnard Tavis, in es­
tablishing his marriage to his 
new bride, Mary Ann Seibel.
Raymond Montoni will conduct 
the Chamber Orchestra for these 
performances. T)r. Arthur Schoep 
of the Denver Lyric Opera and 
the Goldovsky Opera Institute 
stages the Chabrier show while 
Hope Haley Montoni, who staged 
Marriage of Figaro at Duquesne 
last April, stages the Pergolesi 
work.
Tickets may be obtained at the 
DU bookstore, the School of Mu­
sic, or by reservations at 471-4600, 
ext. 401, or 372-1606. Student 
donations are $1, and adult dona­
tions are $1.50 for the benefit of 
the Music School Scholarship 
Fund.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, February 15, 1967—CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN—Page 9
IM Review
(Continued from Page 10) 
for the winners.
Royals
With 23 points Dale Johnson 
led GSIA to an 88-36 victory over 
SAE (Purple).
This year there are 16 teams 
in the Minor League and thus far 
every game played has been an 
upset.
Eagles
Biglow with 13 points led the 
3L’s to a 46-10 upset over DTD 
“J.” Then DTD “J” went on to 
upset TDP “J” 19-6. Burgess scor­
ing 8.
Bam;
Emerson scored 16 and NVNAF 
scored a romping upset over PKA 
“G” by a score of 71-8.
Colts
Du upset BSR 27-22 as Klotz 
scored 17 for the winners. Later 
ATO “Chi” beat DU 28-19. Grazi- 
ano scored 15 for ATO.
To roundup the basketball ac­
tion for last week, in the Brown’s 
league, the Chinese Bandits with 
a well rounded team upset PKT 
“J” 45-14. Glen Smith was high 
scorer for the Bandits with 9.
PgerA Polo
Major Leagues
Undefeated BSR remained on 
top with a forfeit win over the 
Grad Nads. In the only other 
game played, SN “White” stayed 
close behind in third with a 7-1 
win over DTD.
Standings W L
BSR 4 0
ATO “A” 3 0
SN “White” 3 1
PKT 2 2
DTD 2 3
DU 14
Grad Nads 0 5
Pacific League
In the only game played last 
week, GSIA moved into a first 
place tie with TDP after edging 
SAE 4-3.
Standings W L
GSIA 4 1
TDP 4 j
BTP 1 i
PKA 2 3
ATO “B” 1 2
SAE 1 3
SN “old” 0 2
Intramural Bowling
In last week’s semi-finals, the 
EJ’s “A” team and DU won the 
right to go to the finals, but found 
the competition a bit stiffer than 
they expected.
TEACH IN GHANA 
or NIGERIA?
Yes: — If you . -
1. Have a Bachelor's Degree; pr 
ferably a Masters Degree.
2. Have at least 30 semester hou 
credit in one of the following: 
physics; b. chemistry; c. biology; c 
mathematics; e. industrial arts; 
English; g. French; h. geography; 
business education; j. home econbm 
ics.
3. Desire to teach at (tie seconc
ory school level.
4. Are in good health; single, o 
married without children.
WRITE:
Teachers for 
West Africa Program
ELIZABETHTOWN COLLEGE 
Elizabethtown, Pa. 17022
The EJ-BSR match, the EJ’s 
used a fine 909 first game to ride 
to a 2538-2375 series victory. How­
ever, after Beta Sig won the sec­
ond game by 52 pins, dropping 
the EJ total pin margin to 54, 
the match was not decided until 
the 8th frame of the third and 
final game at which time the EJ’s 
overcame a 40 pin game deficit 
to clinch the victory. High man 
for the victors was Bill Libman 
with a 522 series and a high game 
of 201. Outstanding for Beta Sig 
were Jim Ldpman with a 508 
series and Harold Dunn with a 
high game of 214 and a 522 series.
In the other playofif match, DU 
lost the first two games to a 
fired-up SAE team but overcame 
a 77 pin deficit in the third gamp 
to clinch total pins and the vic­
tory. Leading SAE was Dykes 
with a 519 series while Dennis 
Rosenfeld’s 235 third game and 
fine 557 series led DU to the win.
Next week, DU and the EJ’s 
“A” meet for the intramural bowl­
ing championship while BSR and 
SAE battle for third place in the 
consolation game.
1967
ENGINEERING GRADUATES
The Inland Steel Company, Indiana Harbor Works, East Chicago, Indiana invites 
you to investigate our many career opportunities. Consult the specific job descrip­
tion in the pocket of our brochure. Our representatives will be on your campus on
INLAND
FEBRUARY 15, 1967
INLAND STEEL COMPANY
INDIANA HABBOR WOHIS
EAST CHICAGO. INDIANA
Equal Opportunity Employers in the Flans for Progress Program!
PRESENTINGCONVAIR
...A Great Name in AerospaceT
he Convair Division of General 
Dynamics Corporation is one of the 
largest and most sophisticated 
aerospace and research firms In the 
country. It was formed in 1965 through 
the merger of two divisions of General 
Dynamics: the old Convair Division and the 
Astronautics Division, both In San Diego.
The heritage of Convair dates back to 
aircraft production prior to and during 
World War II. In recent years the former 
Convair Division produced the Air Force 
F-102 and F-106 jet interceptors, the 880 
and 990 jet transports, and the Little Joe 
solid rocket booster. The Astronautics 
Division was the home of the Atlas, the first 
free-world ICBM, and the subsequent 
development of the Atlas as one of the 
nation’s major space launch vehicles; 
many other aerospace and research 
programs were undertaken by Astronautics 
including Centaur—the first U.S. space 
rocket powered by liquid hydrogen.
Company Description
Convair is primarily involved in research, 
development and production connected 
with the aerospace industry. Its primary 
efforts are in complete systems and 
programs. The spectrum includes space 
launch vehicles, electronics systems, 
maneuverable re-entry vehicles, commer­
cial and military aircraft and oceanographic 
research.
Major programs include the Atlas space 
launch vehicle; the Atlas/Centaur booster 
program used to put the Surveyor space­
craft on the moon; the design and installa­
tion of complete telemetering stations; 
conversion programs on Convair military 
and commercial aircraft; satellite research; 
manned space systems, and oceanographic 
telemetering buoys.
Opportunities
The variety of Convair products requires 
engineering graduates at all degree levels 
with majors in aeronautical, electrical, 
electronic and mechanical engineering, 
engineering mechanics and engineering 
physics.
Engineering or science graduates will be 
assigned to the following areas: advanced
systems, systems analysis, space sciences, 
life sciences, information sciences, sci­
entific data processing, aeroballistics, 
dynamics, thermodynamics, guidance, 
structures, mechanical design, electrical 
design, reliability, test engineering and 
materials research.
Special Features and Attractions
Convair offers outstanding fringe benefits 
including an Employee Savings and Stock 
Investment Plan to which the Company 
contributes as well as a Retirement Plan 
and Tuition Assistance Programs. Convair 
engineers can select from many company- 
sponsored educational assistance pro­
grams and determine for themselves which 
is best suited to their particular require­
ments. These programs, held in conjunction 
with four highly rated local colleges and 
universities, include a tuition refund plan, 
an irregular work week to permit college 
attendance, an advanced-degree work- 
study program, special courses and 
seminars, and Doctoral Fellowships, 
among others.
One of the nice things about working at 
Convair is living in San Diego... one of the 
country’s truly great resort centers. With 
only 10 degrees difference between Janu­
ary and July highs, the sunny San Diego 
climate is pleasant throughout the year.
Two great bays and 70 miles of ocean 
beaches provide all year aquatic sports 
and fishing. Exciting Mexico is just a few 
miles away. Nearby mountains, a world- 
famous zoo, and a marine park add to the 
fun... plus 64 golf courses for year ’round 
play. San Diego is an ideal family city with 
excellent schools. As the country’s 16th 
largest city, San Diego offers the best in 
cultural attractions, performing arts, pro­
fessional sports, and other entertainment.
Our representative will be visiting your campus 
soon. Contact your College Placement Officer to 
arrange an Interview appointment, or write 
to Mr. J. J. Tannone, Supervisor, Professional 
Placement and Personnel, General Dynamics 
Convair Division, 5606 Kearny Villa Road,
San Diego, California 92112.
GENERAL DYNAMICS
Convair Division
San Diego, California 
An Equal Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10—CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN—Wednesday, February 15, 1967
IM Review
l.M. basketball got started last Wednesday and 48 teams took to the courts. Each 
team has to have between 6 and 13 men, which means somewhere between 288 and 624 
students are involved in IM basketball this year.
Things got off to a fast and exciting start with seven upsets and one near upset 
being recorded. The most exciting game had to be the one between PKA “A” and BTP 
“B” in the Knicks league. With about three minutes left in the game BTP' “B” was lead­
ing 23-21, but then fortune went
the the other way as they lost 
one man on an injury and another 
on his fifth foul. This left Beta 
with only four men, and PKA 
squeaked by 27-25. In the other 
game in the Knicks league nei­
ther GSIA “C” or TDP “B” show­
ed up, and as a result, both in­
herited losses.
Below are the complete results: 
Celtics
The Grad Physics-defeated the 
Notes To Win 65-37. Vosterhuis 
was high scorer for the winner 
with 21. Also ATO “A” defeated 
the EJ (Gophers) 45-14. Bell was 
high scorer for the winners with 
11.
Warriors
The EJ Bruins upset BSR 63-18, 
with Karchak scoring 20.
Jets
F Troop defeated PKA “B” 57- 
23. Miklojcik scored 19. In another 
game, BTP “A” romped over TDP 
“C” 92-16, with Barbin scoring 28. 
Hawks
The Civil Hammers defeated SN 
“Black” 69-33. Parti scored 19 
for the winners.
Lakers
SN “old” defeated DTD 44-18. 
Platz and Frank both scored 12 
for the winners.
Pistons
The SAE (lions) defeated the 
Romans 39-31. Pranaitis scored 15 
for the winners.
The Chem E Grads defeated 
KS 53-38 as Golstein scored 12 
(Continued on Page 9)
The Foul Line
by LARRY SIKON 
Tartan Sports Editor
tory over Western Reserve.
Tarquans Seek 
New Members
Tarquans, Tech’s coed syn­
chronized swimming club, 
gets into full swing this se­
mester with preparations for 
a show to be held some time 
in April in the Tech pool, 
The planning and preparing 
for an annual show is the 
main aim of the club, but 
most of its members partici­
pate for the fun that they 
have.
Throughout the year the club
Although little note has been given to it, the IM department has 
added both bridge and pocket billiards to its repertoire of intra 
mural sports. This event has been long awaited and at long last 
provides a form of intramural competition to the nonathlete.
Neither of these sports is new to our intramural system, 
however, for both were offered just a few years ago. IM pocket 
billiards was abandoned when the school board began to move 
the fraternity system into the duplex buildings which for the 
most part, are too small to house a pool table. IM bridge was 
abandoned when Skibo was built,, since bridge was supposed to 
be one of the activities that Skibo would govern. The great 
neglect that these sports have been given and the increasing de­
mand for competition in them prompted Mr. Boyer, supervisor 
of intramural athletics, to reactiviate them as a part of the IM 
program. For this decision, Mr. Boyer you deserve the thanks of 
all of who will participate in these sports.
Another, but not so popular action of the IM department was 
the scheduling of IM basketall. The schedule as written allows each 
to play a total of three league games. Many teams practice for 
months in advance to participate in IM competition, only to play 
three games. Admittedly, expanding the leagues to contain more 
than four teams would prolong the season, but at least it would 
give each team a fair chance to see what they can do. Basketball is 
a major sport, and, as such, should be given a larger portion of 
time and a bigger schedule.
Contest Strategy Pays Off 
As Swimmers Edge W&J
by Larry Anderson
Tech evened its swimming team record to 3-3 last week 
with two victories—a hotly contested 50-45 victory over 
Washington and Jefferson, and a less challenging 74-30 vic-
The Tartans entered the W&J 
game as an underdog after los­
ing, 65-39, to West Virginia who 
had lost to W&J. Realizing W&J’s 
strengths and weaknesses, Coach 
John N. Trezise developed a game 
plan to assure the Tartans of 
victories in certain areas while 
sacrificing points in others.
“Just as a football team has 
a pregame plan whether to 
concentrate on an air or ground 
attack, our team concentrated 
on certain areas,” was the 
coach’s explanation of the 
strategy. As an example, Cap­
tain Pete Rutter, who usually 
swims in three events, swam 
in only two and captured first 
places in both.
The results were glorious, as 
freshman Merrill Moter broke his 
his own team record in the 200- 
yard freestyle by four-tenths of 
a second with a time of 2:03.0 
and J. Fred Rial, also a freshman, 
won the breast stroke, with a 
time of 2:35.1. It was the first 
time Tech had beaten W&J in 
several years.
Tartans Dominate Reserve 
Three days later on Saturday, 
the Tartans visited Cleveland in 
an encounter with Western Re­
serve University. First places 
were taken by Merrill Moter 
(200-yard and 500-yard free- 
styles), Pete Hutter (50-yard and 
100-yard freesytles), Preston Big­
low (200-yard individual med­
ley), John Bennett (diving), Don 
Lightner (200-yard butterfly), 
Bill Cots worth (200-yard back­
stroke), J. Fred Rial (200-yard 
breast stroke), Tom Thomas (1,- 
000-yard freestyle), and the com­
bination of Jim Wentz, John Per­
ry, Les Hough, and Pete Hutter 
in the 400-yard relay. The final 
results was a 74-30 triumph.
—Tartan Photo by Mark Kaminsky
Water-polo season nearing close.
members learn new stunts and 
perfect their skills. The numbers 
for the show, written and direct­
ed by the member themselves, 
usually involve a central theme.
This year Tarquans is looking 
for new members, and everyone 
is welcome. Meetings are held 
every Tuesday in the Tech pool 
at 7 pm, but when the members 
are divided into numbers, each 
group plans its rehearsals to meet 
the special needs of its members. 
Anyone interested in Tarquans 
should come to the pool on Tues­
day with a suit and towel, or con­
tact Eileen Morrow (manager), 
Jeanne Winans, or any member 
of the club.
11-1 Rifle Team 
In 4-Way Shoot
Last Saturday the Tartans tra­
veled to Clarion only to be de­
feated by a heartbreaking one 
point. The final score was Clarion 
1397, Tech 1396. This made the 
first loss for Tech in league com­
petition. Scoring for the Tartans 
were Ted Mankovich 283, Bruce 
McKelvy 281, Dick Dam,berg 279, 
Fred Kline 277, and Dick Boyn­
ton 276.
The previous weekend, Feb. 
4th, the rifle team had traveled 
to Penn State to participate in a 
four-Way meet with Indiana, 
Pennsylvania Military College, 
and Penn State. Tech did well, 
outshooting Indiana and PMC and 
losing only to Penn State. The 
Penn State team, however, had 
not really been counted on as a 
victor. Their score of 144 for 
the match was supported by the 
performance of such shooters as 
All-American Gary Dunning with 
a 294. Tech turned in a 1396, led 
by Ted Mankovich with a 282, as 
well as Eric Sandgren with a 282. 
Indiana had 1392 and PMC 1379.
Next weekend Tech will travel 
down Forbes Avenue and shoot 
at Pitt in a fourway match with 
Pitt, Allegheny, and Washington 
and Jefferson.
Varsity Bowlers 
Add Seventh Win
With most of Tech’s intercolle­
giate bowling team weary from 
the intramural bowling playoffs 
earlier in the afternoon, CIT still 
managed to win three out of lour 
points from league-leading St. 
Vincent, thus upping their sea­
son’s points to seven wins and 
one loss.
Leading the Tech bowlers 
were Dana Nadeau with a 583 
series for his three games and 
Don Douds with a 185 average 
for his two.
Next week, Tech travels to Ge­
neva for their third match of the 
season.
Statistics
Carnegie Tech
1st 2nd 3rd tot. aver
B. Libman ---------160 x 169 329 16^
D. Nadeau -----------190 193 200 583 194
J. Lipman .............141 x 151 292 146
D. Rosenfeld ------183 141 x 324 162
J. Miller -------------189 178 13& 506 I69
D. Douds ............... x 190 179 369 185
B. Schuchat ------ x 157 x 157 157
TOTALS------863 859 2560
St. Vincent
1st 2nd 3rd tot. aver.D. Scott ...............147 171 202 520 173
A. Hagrovsky .......161 180 163 504 168
J. Graybill ..........151 I65 180 496 165
R. Barrett ............183 150 179 512 171
W. Samuel ...........139 111 180 430 143
TOTAL.........781 777 904 2462 1
If Tech does as well as they 
anticipate they will have a league 
record of 13 and 1 after sweeping 
the board against all the schools.
Engineers:
MeetBoeing
Campus Interviews Monday through Wednesday March 6 through 8
The many challenging aerospace programs at Boeing provide a dynamic career growth environment. Pick your spot in applied research, design, test, manufac­turing, service or facilities engineering, or computer technology. If you desire an advanced degree and qualify, Boeing will help you financially with its Graduate Study Program at leading universities near company facilities.Visit your college placement office and schedule an interview with the Boeing representative. Boeing is an equal opportunity employer.
Divisions: Commercial Airplane • Missile and Information Systems • 
Space • Supersonic Transport • Vertol • Wichita • Also, Boeing 
Scientific Research Laboratories
