Inside
Calendar......................................L12Classified.......................................10Comics...........................................L4Diversions.......................................L7
Living............................................LIForum..........................................••••4Sports............................/¦.............12
ForumDiversions
Last look at electionsLa Dancers compete at CMU
• see page 4¦ | • see page L7
Simona Lo/Tartan Art Co-editor
Features
Explore religion 
• see page LI
THE TÀRTAN
L127Si mon a//7i mCarnegie Mellon University's Student Newspaper Since 19064 November 1996
CMU takes second in EDS challenge
By BETTY SHEA
Tartan Junior Staff writer
Responding to a case challenge issued 
by Electronic Data Services (EDS), a 
CMU team of four students and an advi­
sor faced competition from 41 of the best 
collegiate business schools in the United 
States, Canada, and Mexico, and walked 
away with the second place prize.
Bounmy Phouthavong, Justin Fidler, 
Kichard Bodnar, and Douglas Hudson 
[were the four students selected to repre­
sent CMU. They were advised by Dr. 
Sandra Slaughter, assistant professor 
of Information Systems, who teaches 
both at the undergraduate and gradu­
ate level in GSIA.
CMU has been involved in the annual 
competition since it started three years
3, and this year’s achievement is the 
most impressive the University can boast 
to date.
The challenge involved each team of 
four students working to consult EDS on 
the feasibility of a business proposal. 
Backed by more than a total of $30,000 
in scholarships, the competition at­
tracted many formidable entrants from 
[prestigious institutions such as North­
western University, UC Berkeley, and 
University of Wisconsin-Madison.
When asked why they chose to be 
involved in the competition, the partici­
pants had different responses. 
iFiouthavong, a senior in Industrial 
Management. (IM) said, “I’m interested 
in consulting as a career, and I thought 
that it would expose me to consulting 
agencies, and what they actually do.”
Fidler, a junior graduating this year 
in information and decision systems 
(IDS), also stressed the importance of 
exposure to the world outside school. “I
Lisette MiHer-Dixon/Tartan Photo Staff
The CMU team of Richard Bodnar, Bounmy Phouthavong, Justin Fidler, and Douglas 
Hudson placed second at the national EDS competition in Texas.
thought that it would be a good chal­
lenge and that it would expose me to 
problems that are faced in the real world,” 
said Fidler. On the other hand, Bodnar, 
a senior IM major, and Hudson, a senior 
IM and economics double major, offered 
additional motivations.
“Personally, 1 thought that it would 
be a great opportunity to be surrounded 
by a lot of people from different parts of 
the world.... It was also an opportunity 
to finally put everything that we’ve 
learned ... from our classes into an ac-
tual case,” Bodnar said.
Hudson, on a slightly different note, 
said, “I [wanted] to represent Carnegie 
Mellon.... I felt really confident in the 
education that I’ve gotten here, and I 
[wanted] the opportunity to go down 
there and show them what we knew.” 
The preparation process started about 
a month before the competition. Poten­
tial candidates submitted a copy of their 
resumé and a one-page essay to Slaugh­
ter. Describing the method in which she 
Please see EDS, page 3
IDSA chooses CFA 
professor as president
By JAYA SAXENA
Tartan Staffwriter
The wooden shelves of Room 207 in 
Margaret Morrison Carnegie Hall are 
furnished with a wide array of prod­
ucts such as antique toasters and Coca- 
Cola bottles. “Displaying the products 
is a good way to talk to people about 
what design is,” said Craig Vogel, as­
sociate professor of design and associ­
ate dean of the College of Fine Arts, 
and the current occupant 
of this office. In what 
proved to be a record 
breaking election, with 
the highest percentage 
of voters in the group’s 
history participating,
Vogel was recently 
elected president of the 
Industrial Designers 
Society of America 
(IDSA) for the 1997-98 
term. Following his 
term, he will serve as 
chairman of the board 
for IDSA.
IDSA is a national, 
professional organiza­
tion comprised of lead­
ing figures in the field of 
design with nationwide 
chapters composed ofun­
dergraduate students.
“[IDSA] can get students 
to understand what op­
portunities there are, 
meet with professionals,
and participate in mentor programs, 
job fairs, and in a networking system 
for career development,” said Vogel. 
“The purpose of IDSA is [to] act as a 
voice for the profession in articulating 
the role of design in the process of 
product development, addressing is­
sues affecting the field, and represent­
ing the organization to other fields,” he 
continued.
As president of IDSA, Vogel will be 
Please see IDSA, page 3
Jason Siegendorf/Tartan Photo Editor
Craig Vogel, associate dean of CFA, will take office as 
IDSA President next January.
CMU police investigate kiddie pom
By SHEILA M. FLANAGAN
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Campus police have received 
several reports from people on 
campus who have received solici­
tations through email to purchase 
or trade child pornography. Ac­
cording to Lieutenant Mary E. 
Sorber of the CMU Police Depart­
ment, the first report of this occur­
rence was made on October 21. 
“We have only two reports at this 
time although I understand that 
there have been others who were 
contacted through their email,” 
said Sorber.
The email, which is usually 
titled “Child XXX,” states that 
the solicitor is sending this mes­
sage to the receiver because his 
or her address was on a list
that fit this category. The mes­
sage then goes on to give de­
tails of the various types of child 
pornography that the sender is 
offering along with a list of 
prices. The sender also men­
tions that he or she would be 
willing to trade or buy child 
pornography from the receiver. 
The message ends with the 
sender’s address and the meth­
ods of monetary payment that 
he or she will accept.
According to Detective 
Raymond A.P. Mialki ofthe CMU 
Police Bureau of Investigations, 
these solicitations have been com­
ing from various America On Line 
accounts. “America OnLine has 
already been contacted, and they 
are supposed to have disabled 
the sender’s account,” said Mialki.
Nevertheless, Mialki advises 
that should one receive this type 
of email that he or she should 
“contact me and either forward 
the mail to my electronic mail­
box, or send a copy of the post to 
me through campus mail or 
other means.”
At this time, the CMU Po­
lice Department is most con­
cerned with identifying the 
sender of this email. “I am 
coordinating my investigation 
with various federal agencies 
in order to identify and pros­
ecute the individual who has 
been sending out this email,” 
said Mialki.
[Ed. Note: This investigation 
is still in progress; some infor­
mation is not available at this 
time.]
Exploring technology...
CMU hosts Computer Expo ’06
By TREVOR MEYEROWITZ
Tartan Staffwriter
“It’s been super busy. I would 
guess that we’ve had around 
three thousand [visitors],” said 
David Gregg, Computer Store 
marketing manager, of Com­
puter Expo ’96.
From 10 am to 5 pm, the Uni­
versity Center Ballroom was the 
site of the fair, sponsored by the 
Computer Store. It featured ex­
hibits from computer vendors and 
school re-
here is computer literate, which 
is wonderful,” said Wagner.
Doug Bl^air, advisory engi­
neer at Apple Computers, said 
the purpose of the show was, 
“to show products and tech­
nologies. The whole idea of a 
university is to teach, and 
there’s a lot of areas where 
technology can help with teach­
ing.”
In addition to the vendors, 
the show also featured CMU 
booths from the School of Com-
Rolling over Rochester...
Jason Siegendorf/Tartan Photo Editor
The Tartans crushed Rochester last weekend. Here, senior halfback Buck Neal rushes for the goal line.
searchers.
Computer 
Store Man­
ager Laura 
Walsh said,
“[The purpose 
ofthe show is] 
to inform the 
students of 
products in 
the industry,
show what is going on on cam­
pus, and pique interest in com­
panies that we aren’t currently 
selling, [such as] Digital and 
SGI.”
The vendors at the show were 
Apple, Dell, IBM, Hewlett 
Packard, Digital, Sun, Umax, 
Adobe, Microsoft, Iomega, Sili­
con Graphics, Compaq, US Ro­
botics, Visioneer, Bell Atlantic 
Mobile, the Douglas Stewart 
Co., and D&H Distributing.
“[It’s] wonderful, there’s been a 
great flow of people. It’s great 
exposure for the vendors,” said 
Melissa Wagner, an education 
specialist for D&H Distributing. 
D&H sells Canon, Iomega, 
Microsoft, and US Robotics prod­
ucts to schools.
“It’s exceeded our expectations, 
the number of people is incred­
ible, and it seems like everybody
“The University is here for students. 
This is just as important as what is 
learned in the classroom
— Dominique C. David, 
CMRI scientist
puter Science, Telecom, the 
Studio for Creative Inquiry, 
and the Carnegie Mellon Re­
search Institute (CMRI).
“I think the Expo is a good 
thing; it’s a good thing for stu­
dents. One of the neatest 
things was, during my discus­
sion, I saw a student put to­
gether everything that he 
learned. My explanation in­
volved physics and engineer­
ing. It gives students a chance 
to see the application of what 
they learn,” said Dominique C. 
David, a scientist in Advanced 
Devices and Materials at 
CMRI.
David stressed the importance 
of such events of knowledge shar­
ing: “The University is here for 
students. This is just as impor­
tant as what is learned in the 
classroom.”
The model at the CMRI 
booth was a detector of carbon 
monoxide buildup in the oil of 
transformers.
Other research demonstra­
tions included robotics, tele­
communications, and wearable 
computers.
The show also featured 
many door prizes. “We’ll be 
giving away, by the end of the 
day, close to three hundred 
door prizes supplied by the 
vendors,” said Gregg.
_______________ “I’m curious
why they have 
the research 
products. 
They aren’t 
selling any­
thing, but it 
seems inter­
esting,” said 
Yoichi Sato, a 
¦BHHSBBBiissEil doctorate stu­
dent in robot­
ics and a winner of a Steven 
Spielberg CD-ROM.
“I think it’s kind of neat to see 
new technologies. I thought it 
was going to be a sale, by the 
way they were advertising,” said 
Carl Zakas, a sophomore elec­
trical and computer engineer­
ing (ECE) and computer science 
(CS) double major.
“It never hurts to be in a new 
building; and you have some 
really key hardware vendors: 
IBM, Apple, and Dell, which 
helped draw in people,” said 
Michael Imm, account man- ; 
ager of computer products for ; 
the Douglas Stewart company, : 
a distributor of computer prod­
ucts from Adobe, Symantec, 
and other companies.
“I’ve been to three events here, ! 
and this is the best as far as ; 
attendance goes,” said Imm. :

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 4 November 1996
Local, state, national 
seats to be voted on
WASHINGTON Nov. 2, (Reuter) — 
Americans elect a president, vice presi­
dent, members of the House, about a 
third of the Senate, 11 state gover­
nors, and an array of other state and 
local officials Tuesday.
Here, at a glance, is what is at stake:
President:
Democratic incumbent Bill Clinton 
and running mate A1 Gore face Repub­
licans Bob Dole and Jack Kemp. Also 
on the presidential ballot in all states 
and the District of Columbia are Re­
form Party nominee Ross Perot and 
Harry Browne of the Libertarian Party. 
J ohn Hagelin of the N atural Law Party 
is on the ballot in 44 states, Howard 
Phillips of the U.S. Taxpayers Party in 
39 states, and Ralph Nader of the 
Green Party in 22 states. There are 14 
other candidates on the ballot in at 
least one state, the Federal Election 
Commission said.
The vote is actually 51 separate elec­
tions in the 50 states and in the Dis­
trict of Columbia. The president is 
elected not by the popular vote but 
indirectly by an electoral college.
The votes of each state in the college 
are equal to the number of members it 
has in the House and Senate. All the 
electoral votes of each state are as­
signed to the candidate who gets the 
most popular votes in that state, ex­
cept. for Nebraska and Maine which 
have slightly different rules.
California has the most electoral 
votes with 54, New York has 33, Texas 
32, Florida 25, Pennsylvania 23, and 
Illinois 22.
The states with the smallest popula­
tions — Wyoming, Vermont, Alaska, 
Montana, Delaware, North Dakota, 
South Dakota, as well as the District 
of Columbia—all have three electoral 
votes each.
Senate:
There are a total of 34 Senate con­
tests for seats in the 100-member leg­
islative chamber.
Republicans now hold 19 of the seats 
up for grabs, Democrats 15. Republi­
cans hold a 53-47 majority in the 
Senate. Democrats need to add four 
seats to regain majority control. They 
need only three if Clinton is re-elected 
because Vice President Gore, who is 
president of the Senate under the 
Constitution, would have a vote in 
case of a tie.
House:
All 435 seats of the House of Repre­
sentatives are up for election this year. 
But only 430 will technically be con­
tested Nov. 5. Five have already been 
decided in Louisiana due to a peculiar­
ity of that state’s procedures.
Republicans currently hold a 235-
197 majority in the House. There is 
one independent, Bernard Sanders of 
Vermont, who generally votes with 
the Democrats, and there are two va­
cant seats, one formerly held by a 
Democrat and one by a Republican.
To regain clear majority control (218 
seats), Democrats need to make a net 
gain of 19, hold the vacant Democratic 
seat, and have Sanders vote with them 
to organize the House.
Democrats have already won one of 
those necessary 19 seats, in Louisi­
ana, where two Democrats face a run­
off election for a formerly Republican- 
held seat.
Governors: Voters will select gov­
ernors in 11 of the 50 states: Washing­
ton, North Carolina, West Virginia,' 
Missouri, Indiana, Delaware, Utah, 
Vermont, New Hampshire, Montana, 
and North Dakota.
Republicans now control 32 gover­
norships, Democrats 17, and there is 
one independent. Of the 11 states at 
stake, seven are held by Democrats 
and four by Republicans.
Other:
Elections also will be held for scores 
of seats in state legislatures and also 
for other local officials from school 
board to sheriff.
Ballot initiatives:
There are dozens of initiatives on 
the ballot in individual states. These 
range from tax and bond issues to 
finance schools to controversial mea­
sures in California on affirmative ac­
tion programs to promote hiring of 
minorities and on legalizing the use of 
marijuana.
In Colorado, voters will decide on an 
initiative involving parental rights 
over children. Maine is voting on 
whether to ban the practice of clear- 
cut logging, and Florida will vote on 
measures to protect Everglades Na­
tional Park. Many states are voting on 
the rights of crime victims.
Voting hours and results:
Under the law, polls must be open 
between 10 and 13 hours. Polls open 
beginning as early as 6 am in some 
eastern states.
Polls close in parts of the states of 
Indiana and Kentucky at 6 pm EST. 
First results from a few precincts in 
these states may be available before 7 
pm EST when polls close in several 
other eastern states. Polls close in 
California, the most populous state at
11 pm EST.
Electorate:
In 1992, a record 104.4 million 
Americans voted, just 55.1 percent of 
those eligible to vote. The total num­
ber of Americans registered to vote is 
about 140 million.
Polls disagree on Clinton/Dole gap
WASHINGTON, Nov. 2 (Reuter) — 
Republican Bob Dole trailed President 
Clinton by 3.8 percentage points in the 
Reuters/Zogby daily tracking poll re­
leased Saturday.
The poll of 1,200 likely voters was 
conducted by John Zogby Group Inter­
national between Wednesday and Fri­
day of last week. It carried a statistical 
margin of error of plus or minus three 
percentage points.
The incumbent Clinton scored 42.4 
percent in the survey, Dole had 38.6 
percent, Reform Party candidate Ross 
Perot trailed with 8.4 percent, and nine 
percent were still undecided.
In the past 24 hours, Clinton’s support 
rose by almost half a percentage point 
but Dole’s grew by more than two points. 
Clinton’s lead stood at 13 points just six 
days ago.
Other polls show Clinton with a more 
solid lead three days before the election. 
A CNN/USA Today Gallup poll Satur­
day had Clinton 13 points ahead with 50 
percent to 37 percent for Dole and seven 
percent for Perot.
FBI official pleads 
guilty to coverup
WASHINGTON, Oct. 30 (UPI) — 
Adding to an already full plate of bad 
news for the FBI, a suspended bureau 
official pleaded guilty Wednesday to 
obstruction of justice in the aftermath 
of the deadly 1992 federal siege at 
Ruby Ridge, Idaho.
The official, E. Michael Kahoe, was 
charged with destroying an internal FBI 
assessment of the siege instead of sup­
plying it to federal prosecutors in Idaho.
Kahoe has agreed to cooperate with 
investigators probing allegations of a 
bureau coverup of FBI decision-making 
during the siege at Ruby Ridge, where 
the wife of white separatist Randy 
Weaver was accidentally killed by an 
FBI sniper.
The FBI took over the Ruby Ridge 
siege after a deputy U.S. marshal and 
Weaver’s teenage son were killed in a 
shootout while marshals were trying to 
serve an illegal firearms warrant on the 
white separatist. Weaver and a friend of 
the family later were acquitted of kill­
ing the deputy marshal and the govern­
ment later agreed to pay $3.1 million to 
the Weaver family to settle wrongful 
death claims and lawsuits against fed­
eral agents.
A spokesman for the U.S. attorney’s 
office, Kevin Ohlson, said Wednesday 
that no firm date has been set for Kahoe’s 
sentencing “because he is cooperating” 
with a further probe, though another 
hearing has been scheduled for January 
to determine a sentencing date.
FBI Director Louis Freeh vowed last 
year to continue the investigation into 
the coverup allegations no matter where
it led. “The FBI must be held to the 
highest standards,” Freeh said. “I re­
main committed to obtaining the full 
truth about what occurred during and 
after the tragic events at Ruby Ridge.”
Pencils linked to cheating scam
NEW YORK, Oct. 28 (Reuter) — A 
California man has been arrested for 
running a scheme that allowed people to 
cheat on required graduate school ad­
mission exams by using pencils encoded 
with the answers, federal prosecutors 
said Monday.
George Kobayashi, 45, of Arcadia, 
California, was arrested Saturday on 
two fraud charges filed in Manhattan 
federal court alleging he operated his 
test-cheating scheme from November 
1993 until the present.
If convicted of the two charges, 
Kobayashi faces a maximum prison 
term of 10 years and fines of $500,000.
Although prosecutors would not com­
ment on how many people had cheated 
on the tests, it appeared from the com­
plaint that hundreds had used 
Kobayashi’s services—which were built 
around a simple difference in time zones.
When the Graduate Management 
Admissions Test (GMAT), Graduate 
Record Exam (GRE), and Test of En­
glish as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) 
are administered on any given day, they 
contain the exact same questions and 
answers nationwide.
According to the complaint, the 
scheme came to light when a test-taker, 
who later became an informant, de­
cided to take the GMAT. The informant 
saw an ad for Kobayashi’s “American 
Test Center” touting a “unique” method 
of preparing students for graduate ad­
mission tests.
The ad, which gave a toll-free number 
and New York address, said customers 
would not be charged unless they re­
ceived their pre-chosen target score. 
Prices,ranged from $3,000 to $6,000.
The actual test-takers who hired 
Kobayashi’s company were instructed 
to fly to Los Angeles to take the exam. 
Relying on the three-hour time differ­
ence, the experts telephoned the correct 
answers to Kobayashi’s office in Los 
Angeles where the answers were quickly 
coded onto pencils by Kobayashi’s em­
ployees and then provided to the test- 
takers, the complaint alleged.
Chinese dissident 
sentenced to jail
BEIJING, Oct. 30 (Reuter) — A Chi­
nese court took less than four hours 
Wednesday to convict dissident and 
former student leader W ang D an of plot­
ting to overthrow the government and 
sentenced him to 11 years in prison.
The Beijing Number One Intermedi­
ate People’s Court found Wang guilty of 
conspiring to subvert the Chinese gov­
ernment, the Xinhua news agency said 
He faced a maximum penalty of death
“Sufficient evidence, which includes 
written materials, witness accounts, re. 
corded tape, and criminal technical ap. 
praisal, were shown at the court,” Xinhuj 
quoted the judge as saying after the 
trial. Wang, 27, was also deprived of his 
political rights for two years, Xinhua 
said, quoting the verdict.
“Wang candidly confessed his activj.
ties,”Xinhua said, adding that he received'
funds from overseas hostile forces, gave 
financial aid to families of jailed dissj. 
dents, and tried to set up an “opposition 
force” by uniting illegal organizations.
Charges against Wang were backed 
by testimony by another dissident, Liu 
Xiaobo, Xinhua said. Liu was sent this 
month to a labor camp for three years.
Foreign reporters and legal experts 
were barred from attending the trial 
western Beijing. Security was tight 
around the court building; with dozens 
of police preventing the public from
proaching the building. Earlier Wednes­
day, the dissident’s father said the fam­
ily would appeal if Wang were convicted.
“We will definitely appeal.... We will 
not give in,” WangXianzeng told report­
ers just hours before the start of the 
proceedings. “He is definitely innocent,” 
he said as he left his home with the 
dissident’s mother, Wang Lingyun, togc 
to the court. “Speech can’t overthrow the 
government,” he said.
Wang*s mother, a 61-year-old museum 
researcher who has no background in 
law, attended the trial as one of two 
defense lawyers. Wang’s father and a 
sister were allowed to sit in.
The New York-based Human Rights 
Watch attacked the trial Tuesday as a 
sign of the Chinese leadership’s increas­
ing intolerance of dissent. Wang has 
already served four years in prison for 
counter-revolutionary crimes, or subver­
sion, for his role in pro-democracy dem­
onstrations in Beijing’s Tiananmen 
Square that were crushed by the army 
in June 1989 with heavy loss of life.
He was politically active again after, 
his parole in 1993, defying police sur­
veillance to join a daring appeal to 
communist leaders for the release of 
those still jailed for their part in the 
1989 protests.
Pittsburgh votes to enforce curfew
PITTSBURGH, Pa. Oct. 31 (UPI)- 
The city of Pittsburgh will go ahead with 
plans for a youth curfew November 11th 
despite a court ruling that struck down 
a similar law in Washington, D.C. A 
federal judge ruled Tuesday that 
Washington’s youth curfew violates the 
rights of minors.
Pittsburgh’s curfew will apply to chil­
dren 16 and under. It will be in effect at
10 pm Sunday through Thursday dur­
ing the school year and 11 pm during the 
summer. On Fridays and Saturdays all 
year, it will begin at midnight.
Pour-Day Forecast
Tuesday
Mostly Cloudy. 
Hi 56 Lo 36
Wednesday
Partly Cloudy. 
Hi 61 Lo 44
ThursdayScattered Showers. 
Hi 58 Lo 31
Friday
Overcast and cold. 
Hi 46 Lo 42
Carnegie Almanac
From National Weather Service bulletins and other sources
50 YEARS AGO, Dec. 10,1946: 
The Film Arts club, a new stu­
dent organization, announced 
that their first film would be 
shown on campus.
Membership in the club was 
open to any student interested in 
motion picture work. A drama 
professor and instructor in phys­
ics served as advisors in dramatic 
production and technical advis­
ing respectively.
Club members were able to gain 
practical experience in disciplines 
such as script writing, photogra­
phy, and sound recording. The 
cast of the club’s first film was 
selected from its members.
Projects outlined for the first 
production included design and 
construction of a sound-on-film 
recorder, writing of a scenario, 
design of scenery and costumes, 
and the actual production of the 
film itself. The organization was 
run by a ten-person committe.
25 YEARS AGO, Nov. 11, 
1971: Results from Carnegie 
Mellon’s Student Senate elec­
tions were in. 28 positions were 
voted on and over 30 percent of 
the people elected did not cam-
paign for a seat on Senate, but 
were awarded one anyway as a 
result of write-in voting. Roughly 
450 students voted.
In other campus issues, Presi­
dent Stever urged budget admin­
istrators to make cutbacks on 
operating expenses. The sugges­
tion came as an effort to help 
reduce the million dollar deficit 
that the campus community had 
run up in the past year.
Provisions to reduce spending 
included: creating no new posi­
tions without approval from ei­
ther the president or vice presi­
dent of academic affairs, prevent­
ing positions which become va­
cant from being filled, stopping 
contract, consulting, or other spe­
cial services from an off-campus 
agency, and carefully analyzing 
research expenditures.
TEN YEARS AGO, Nov. 11, 
1986: Delta Upsilon initiated 
President Cyert into their frater­
nity. “Brother Cyert,” as he was 
called by the fraternity members, 
inherited the rights and privi­
leges of a Delta Upsilon Alum­
nus.
The initiation was part of their
Founder’s Day ceremony.
The president lauded fraterni­
ties and sororities as rewarding 
institutions that provide activi­
ties, an important social setting, 
and help in improving race rela­
tions on campus.
FIVE YEARS AGO, Nov. 4, 
1991: In response to surveys com­
pleted at campus dining facili­
ties, Dining Services restructured 
meal plans and placed a cap on 
rising meal costs.
The moves were part of an 
effort to head off a projected 
$200,000 deficit that the de­
partment figured from Sep­
tember profit reports. In other 
pre-emptive measures to cur­
tail losses, the organization 
considered closing Morewood 
Gardens Cafeteria and a mod­
est reduction in cash allow­
ances at Domino’s.
The surveys, which featured 
responses from 435 students, fac­
ulty, and staff, showed that earn­
ings at Morewood lagged behind 
other dining services, including 
Highlander and the Kiltie Court.
The projections sent the orga­
nization scrambling to improve
the situation and begin studying 
meal plans at 11 different schools.
ONE YEAR AGO, Nov. 6, 
1995: Computing Services an-' 
nounced that a change would oc­
cur in access privileges on most' 
Andrew users’ home directories.' 
As a result of the change, users; 
were still able to see files in other: 
users’ directories, but could no 
longer read them unless that user; 
gave them access.
The Andrew file system makes 
it easy for other users to access^ 
sensitive information in their 
home directories — such as files; 
that show which newsgroups; 
they read.
The existence of “.newsrc” files-; 
which showed the bboards a user; 
read, became an even hotter is­
sue when Marty Rimm compiled 
a list of user statistics without 
permission from the users whose 
accounts he surveyed.
The move came one full year; 
after Computing Services also 
blocked public access to all new 
Andrew accounts.
Compiled by 
CHRIS CANNON

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 4 November 1996
IPSA, from page 1
responsible for directing the activities 
of the group’s planning and executive 
committees, and board of directors, as 
well as leading and facilitating changes 
¦within the organization, continuing 
the existing programs, and initiating 
new ones. He will also work towards 
bringing the American delegation to 
Ithe next meeting of the International 
Congress of Societies of Industrial 
Design (ICSID).
One of Vogel’s primary goals is to 
attract more recent graduates into the 
organization and create a stronger rep­
resentation of women in the group. 
‘Currently, only ten percent of IDSA 
are women,” said Vogel.
He is also interested in creating a 
better understanding of the gradu­
ate education in Industrial Design 
and possibly renaming the organiza­
tion to encompass the broad range of 
possibilities available in the field of 
design.
According to Vogel, Industrial Design 
is a field that began to flourish in the 
1920s and early ’30s. This area of study, 
which is associated with marketing and 
engineering, involves working with prod­
ucts to make them safer and more visu­
ally appealing to consumers.
Vogel has served as secretary, trea­
surer, and Education Committee Chair 
of IDSA. He will retain his position as 
the organization’s executive vice presi­
dent until his presidential term be­
gins in January.
CMU professor voted IDSA president
For the past six years, Vogel has 
held a faculty position at CMU, but 
this is his first semester as associate 
dean of the College of Fine Arts. He 
also teaches design history and an 
upper-level design course, “Integrated 
Product Development,” geared for se­
niors in the Industrial Design pro­
gram. Prior to teaching at CMU, Vogel 
served as a staff member at institu­
tions including the School of the Art 
Institute of Chicago and the Illinois 
Institute of Technology, Institute of 
Design. He graduated with a master’s 
degree in industrial design from Pratt 
Institute and a bachelor’s degree in 
psychology from Marist College.
Some of Vogel’s past accomplishments 
include coordinating the implementa­
tion of a website for IDSA, http:/ / 
www.idsa.org (which was completed by 
CMU graduate students, faculty, and 
alumni), that will provide students with 
better access and communication with 
the organization. The MAYA Design 
Group of Pittsburgh, a local design firm, 
proceeded to develop the actual site.
Vogel has also co-authored an article 
in Innovation Magazine and will soon 
have another piece featured in the De­
sign Management Journal. Recently, he 
accompanied students in the Design 
Department’s IDSA student chapter to 
the IDSA Student Chapter Office Orien­
tation at Ohio State University.
As Associate Dean, Vogel is currently 
coordinating the preparation of a spring, 
college-wide event in memory of Jill
Watson, a previous graduate student 
in art and part-time faculty member in 
the architecture department, who was 
a victim of the TWA Flight 800 crash.
“The reasons I am active [in IDSA] 
are because it is an excellent way for 
me to stay connected with what is 
going on in the field, to establish a 
network for students, and it has been 
an effective arena for me to work in. 
Industrial design is still a relatively 
young field. I have been able to play a 
role in helping to develop the new 
ideas and directions for the organiza­
tion. I find that personally reward­
ing,” he said.
Courtesy University Relations 
Craig Vogel is the new IDSA President.
In the EDS competition
CMU group takes second!
Crime and Incident Report
11/2 DISORDERLY CONDUCT, 3:24 
am. An RA stopped three officers to'com- 
plain of persons throwing objects from the 
fifth floor window of Morewood B-Tower. 
When officers went to the area, the RA 
dentified four students as the persons 
ihr.fc were throwing objects. The students 
rere given citations through Student Life.
i;/3 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF, 1:41 
)p.. A student contacted campus police 
ibcdt obscene graffiti found in a stair­
well of Morewood D-Tower.
Five markings, including character­
izations of the female anatomy were 
displayed. CPS on duty personnel were 
notified for a clean-up of the area.
• Chief of Campus Police, James 
LaPaglia, reviews all reports prior to 
release.
• Only three people on The Tartan 
staff see the reports: the Editor-in- 
Chief, the News Editor, and the
staffwriter typing the report.
• All personal names of complain­
ants, victims, suspects, and fraternity 
names are omitted from the printed 
report. Ethnic descriptions and other 
personal details are given only in the 
context of complete descriptions.
• Not every incident that occurs on 
campus appears in the report.
Compiled By 
CHRIS CANNON
EDS, from page 1
selected the team, Slaughter explained, 
“I tried to select people that I thought had 
complementary skills... because the case 
that EDS gives requires skills from mar­
keting, finance, strategy, information 
systems. So, ideally, we need a mix. I also 
selected students who I [thought] would 
get along with each other, that seemed to 
have a lot of activities besides being very 
good in their school work, so that they 
have some leadership potential.” 
Preparation also involved working on 
a mock case sponsored by Dean and 
Company, a consulting company, and 
speaking with last year’s participants. 
Dr. Nick Flor, assistant professor of in­
formation systems and industrial ad­
ministration and the advisor for last 
year’s team, said, “Because CMU stu­
dents are so technically strong, they 
tend to forget that coming up with the 
‘answer’ is only half the solution. The 
other half is convincing your clients that 
you have the answer.” As a result, this 
year’s training session concentrated on 
refining presentation skills. The team 
felt generally well-prepared for the com­
petition. “My expectations were to at 
least get into- the finals,” said Hudson.
When commenting on the actual com­
petition, the participants did not express 
a single word of complaint about the ar­
rangements that EDS, a company that 
provides global information services to 
clients in 41 different countries, made for 
them during their five day stay. EDS paid 
for all the accommodations, includingtheir 
apartment, their meals, and even vehicles 
for transportation. Bodnar said, ‘This is 
just to give you an idea [of EDS’s hospital­
ity]. When we got off the plane, there was 
a representative waiting for us with four 
cowboy hats. They were really good people 
... and they dedicated a lot of resources to 
the 42 schools.” Hudson added, “We also 
had a party at the Southport Ranch where 
Dallas [the TV show] is filmed.” 
According to the team, the competi­
tion itself was also very organized. 
Phouthavong said, “Everything went so 
smoothly.... Each team had exactly 24 
hours for the case. The first team got
their case at 10 o’clock, and then they ¿a 
[did] their questions 3 hours later, and£j 
another round of questions 4 hours af-.® 
ter.... Then the next day at 10 [o’clock! *ri 
they had to present.” Each team got the _j 
same case, which involved a proposal to ! 
reunite families separated during the j 
Yugoslavia crisis in 1992. There were 5 
teams in the finals beside Carnegie 
Mellon: Prairie View A&M University, 
Queen’s University — Canada, Rutgers 
University, SUNY at Buffalo, and the 
University of Michigan — Dearborn.
The advisors were not allowed to pro­
vide any help to the students in coming 
up with the technical solutions. “At the 
competition, I was very limited in what 
I [could] do.... I [could] say something 
like ‘you need to speak up more,5 but that 
[was] about it,” Slaughter said.
Bodner welcomed the team’s relative 
independence during the case. He said,:
“I thought it was kind of good that there 
weren’t people giving you directions, tell­
ing you what to do. I mean, that’s not 
what’s going to happen when you go out 
there into the world.”
Altogether, the team expressed their 
enjoyment of the whole event. “It was. 
fun because you got to work and solve 
problems, and it was useful because it 
got you great [career] leads,” said' 
Fidler. Indeed, EDS arranged a career; 
fair for the participants, who had the 
chance to meet representatives from 
every division of the company. On the, 
other hand, Hudson said, “I think one, 
of the big things that I got out of it was, 
improving my group skills.” Said, 
Slaughter, “I wasn’t sure what to ex­
pect but I ended up having a great 
time. A lot of it was I think the stu­
dents were a real gift [to work with.]”
“I think that it’s important that CMU 
remains doing this,” Bodner stressed. 
“Now that we’ve made a name down 
there, they’re going to be expecting us.” 
Phouthavong also expressed her sup­
port for CMU’s involvement with, the 
program. She said, “I would do it again, 
and I encourage people to get involved. I 
think these are opportunities that people 
should really take advantage of.”
Student Senate Minutes
STUDENT SENATE 
Meeting of 28 October 1996 
Unofficial Minutes
STUDENT
SENATE- ^
Roll was taken at 7:30 pm. Meet- 
ngwas called to order at 7:35 pm.
Senators Present: Amin (HSS- 
3AL), Bembenick (HSS), Braden 
[SIA-SAL), Connor (HSS), Cox 
¡CIT), Chang (MCS), Davis (HNZ), 
Fay (MIS), Go (SIA-SAL), Guilds 
CFA), Horwitz (SCS), Jain (SIA), 
Jones (CFA), Kenney (MCS), Kienzl 
ENZ-SAL), Klein (CIT), Lentz 
•X'S), Mendelssohn (CIT-SAL), 
tassinger (CIT), Muir (HSS), 
’inkston (CIT), Prattipati (SCS), 
laza (HSS), Rosenthal (SCS), 
lumpf (CIT), Senderling (HNZ), 
>zudarek (HSS), Toraason (MCS).
Senators Absent: Abramson 
HSS), Coster (CIT), Robles (MCS).
Audience Participation: 
'Members of the group FUNC 
Forget U.S. News Coalition) spoke 
‘bout the undue influence of U.S.. 
ps and World Report college 
askings on prospective students 
employers. The group feels 
hat the rankings are unfair and 
/ould like the Senate to pass a 
^solution asking President 
ieln’abian to withhold CMU sta- 
•stics from U.S. News. The pro­
posal was referred to the Academic 
Affairs committee for review.
Ex-Officio Reports: 
¦»President (Bryon Krug): The 
Task Force on Student Represen­
tation is now under new leader­
ship. The new leaders, MattPhelps 
and Jennifer Church, are cur­
rently modifying the goals of the 
organization. The Task Force on 
Student Government has consid­
ered the evaluations of the cur­
rent government and will report 
back at the next Senate meeting. 
There will be a seminar on Roofies 
on November 11 at 7:30 pm in 
Rangos Hall. Speakers include an 
Emergency Room doctor, a pa­
thologist, and a police officer.
Committee Reports:
0 Public Relations (Matt 
Bembenick): Elections will be held 
on November 12,13 and 14. Peti­
tions are due Tuesday at 5:00 pm.
New Business From Com­
mittee:
•F96-012 Non-Funded Recog­
nition — Russian House:
Passed by acclamation.
•Approval of Election Loca­
tion and Times:
Elections will be held in front of 
Warner Hall, in Kirr Commons in 
the University Center, and in front 
of Doherty Hall. In case of inclem­
ent weather, elections will be held 
in Kirr Commons. For all days in 
Kirr Commons, the hours of elec­
tion will be from 10 am-6pm. All 
other days will be 10 am-5pm.
Passed by hand vote, 13-4-2.
New Business From the 
Floor:
•Special Allocation for Frater­
nity Appraisal:
The fraternities believe that the 
University is chargingtoo much for 
rent, and would like to have the 
houses on the quad appraised with 
the approval of Student Senate.
Referred to the Funding and 
Recognition Committee for review.
Announcements:
•Deadline for petitions is Octo­
ber 29 at 5:00 pm.
Meeting adjourned at 9:57 pm.
Submitted By 
BEN BOSTWICK 
Edited By 
BECKY A. COWSER
Corrections/Clarifications...
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of such 
an error, please contact Tartan Editor-in-Chief Kenneth J. 
Kraemer at 268-2111.
YOU MIGHTN OT FIND 
HIM IN OUR STORE...
BUTYOU WILL FIND THE CD YOU WERE LOOKING FOR!
Don’t forget to
L1Ti L
The general election is Tuesday, November 5,
Cast your vote for president 
Polls open 7 a.m. to 8 p.m.
Don't know where to vote? Call the League of Women Voters at 261-4284 to find out.
And watch for the ...
Student Senate Elections
Tuesday, Nov, 12 Wednesday, Nov. 13 Thursday, Nov. 14Warner Hall/Forbes Ave.* 10-5Doherty Hall* 10-5Kirr Commons 10-6'Tables will be In Kirr Commons if it rains on Tuesday or Wednesday.
1

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Carnegie Mellon University4 November 1996
Career Center must 
show improvement
The Career Center is struggling to 
function in this heavy recruiting sea­
son, as it is missing key opportunities 
and resources to serve students and 
corporate recruiters better. While the 
Career Center does manage to serve 
hundreds of corporations and several 
thousand students, it often leaves both 
groups of clientele wishing for better 
service, fewer mistakes, and a greater 
feeling of professionalism.
The cumulative efforts of the Uni­
versity to develop qualified individu­
als for the real world are set back when 
the Career Center fails to provide the 
interviewing facilities that allow each 
student to properly convey his or her 
own personal success to recruiters. 
These inadequacies are not new: the 
interviewing rooms are woefully small 
in space, sterile in atmosphere, and 
few in number. The waiting area is 
uncomfortable and crowded, and the 
research resources for international 
students are not of the same breadth 
as at comparable universities. Since 
the same small core of staff is respon­
sible for the time-intensive task of pre­
selected postings and following inter­
view sign-ups, we see unnecessary de­
lays in the functioning of both services. 
Additionally, recruiters find disap­
pointment with the quality of the 
rooms, dissatisfaction with the pre­
sentation of their corporate literature, 
and annoyance when specific forms 
and information have not been given to 
interviewees.
The latest short-term solution imple­
mented to alleviate the overcrowding 
is to move interviews into alternate 
spaces near the carreer center, includ­
ing the Admissions Offices and the 
now-defunct Morewood Gardens Din­
ing Area.
But both places are poor locations, 
and not just because many students 
are late in realizing that their inter­
view is at an alternative location. In­
terviews in admissions counselors’ pri­
vate offices are incessantly interrupted 
by ringing telephones and staff chat-
ter. Meanwhile, the poor atmosphere 
of the dimly lit and starkly decorated 
Morewood dining room is com­
pounded by the fact that a dozen 
interviews are being conducted at 
the same time! The industrial qual­
ity furniture, lack of a waiting room, 
and an interview sign-up area situ­
ated in the space once occupied by 
trash cans are conditions unequivo­
cally inappropriate for a school charg­
ing the kind of tuition that CMU 
students pay. Can’t the Career Cen­
ter even afford fake flowers to spruce 
up the environment?
These problems could all be elimi­
nated by the University allocating 
some of the basement space in the 
University Center to The Career Cen­
ter as an entirely new location for 
interviewing. The Center should 
move its interviewing facilities to a 
newly constructed office space where 
both students and recruiters could 
enjoy modern amenities and a more 
professional, appropriate environ­
ment. This would also afford the 
Carreer Center aditional space in 
which to expand its now-lacking re­
search resources.
More immediately, the Carreer 
Center should hire more staff to serve 
its customers, including “greeters” 
who could answer questions and en­
sure that students are at the right 
location and that all relevant infor­
mation has been made available. The 
greeters could also make sure that 
the recruiters’ needs are being prop­
erly met.
In this hyper-competitive job mar­
ket, all companies and special-in- 
terest organizations that come to 
recruit have alternatives to CMU. 
The conditions provided by the Cen­
ter do not reflect well on Carnegie 
Mellon or on its students, and the 
atmosphere is not conducive to suc­
cess. In the long-run, that hurts 
career opportunities for students, 
and the University’s reputation for 
developing professionals.
The last class of students that actu­
ally used the old Scotland Yard will be 
graduating in the spring and with them 
will pass a sacred CMU tradition — a 
coffeehouse run by the students for the 
students. Although the old Skibo was 
inferior to the UC in almost every re­
spect, it did have a student coffeehouse 
and haunt. Scotland Yard was, per­
haps, the epitome of student hang-outs; 
its walls were lined with student orga­
nization T-shirts and old Carnegie Tech 
football banners; the seating was a 
cozy mixture of bar-tables, stools, and 
enclosed gazebos, all in rich, dark wood; 
atop of one gazebo stood an old buggy, 
perched at a jaunty angle; a glass case 
near the entrance proudly displayed 
the memorabilia of Carnegie’s proud 
traditions: books, pictures, flags, mugs, 
a football, all set on a swathe of real 
Tartan plaid; the lighting was dark 
enough to be intriguing, bright enough 
to be warm; the atmosphere was con­
versational; students ran it, students 
frequented it.
But with the rubble of Skibo, Scot­
land Yard is gone. And Skibo Coffee­
house has nothing in common with 
Scotland Yard. There is a simple rea­
son for this. The space that is currently 
Skibo Coffeehouse is designated by the 
administration as a “multi-purpose 
space.” In other words, the room is used 
for meetings and presentations and 
conferences, just like every other room 
on the second floor of the loggia.
The Coffeehouse’s barren walls are 
stark and unfriendly, the service is 
perfunctory, the food is overpriced, stu­
dents may not smoke, and the coffee­
house isn’t run by students. Its atmo­
sphere is utilitarian at best. These are 
all things that could be fixed with time, 
but as long as the administration in­
sists on considering Skibo Coffeehouse 
a multi-purpose space, they won’t be. 
Under that designation, the space that
most of us call Skibo Coffeehouse 
only masquerades as a student hang­
out as long as the administration 
feels no need to use it for business.
Students will never feel any owner­
ship of Skibo Coffeehouse if they 
aren’t allowed to make it a reflection 
of student life. That means posters 
and T-shirts and banners and tro­
phies and pictures—things that can’t 
be easily removed should the room be 
needed to impress VIPs or hold an 
exam or meeting.
In addition, some of the planned 
events, such as poetry readings and 
musical performances, have been 
moved because of the poor acoustics 
and lack of ambiance. These prob­
lems, which must be remedied in 
order to allow the vital relaxed func­
tionality, can easily be fixed by the 
addition of decorations similar to 
those in Scotland Yard. Students need 
a comfortable, non-academic setting 
to share their arts and talents.
The decorations need not be the 
same as Scotland Yard’s, but they 
should reflect student life and cul­
ture and spirit. Sorry — latch-hook 
rugs and a giant slide rule do not cut 
it.
There is enough meeting space in 
the University Center; the building 
is huge and much of the second floor 
is devoted to that purpose.
The Skibo Coffeehouse should not 
be defined as a multi-purpose space, 
and it should instead be reserved as 
space for use by students (and staff 
and professors, if they wish) to un­
wind and relax.
However, if the administration re­
ally wants the coffeehouse space, they 
should take it and give the students 
another place for a real student hang­
out. Skibo Coffeehouse, as it stands, 
is an unacceptable compromise. Bring 
back the spirit of Scotland Yard.
Letters to the Editor
cmuOUT reflects 
on khaki slacks
An open letter to 
the College Repub­
licans:
& ii Gi3rTTit/ T1 TA1 C-eT1t dAi dBtTByryesMtHAD xiyTit PSh fo,
Letter toWe would like to 
commend the College 
the Editor Republicans’ “Come 
Out in Khaki” cam­
paign, held in conjunction with 
cmuOUT’s “Gay Jeans Day” on October
30.
This show of support for your fellow 
gay, lesbian, and bisexual Republicans 
delightedly surprised us.
We were already providing denim 
swatches for those who could not wear 
jeans on Wednesday.
Because we believe it is important to 
demonstrate support for this 
underrepresented Republican minority, 
we were also more than happy to distrib­
ute khaki strips to those who are unable 
to wear khaki clothing that day.
We were excited about the number of 
supporters who visited us during our 
demonstration.
Such activities as “Come Out in 
Khaki” are sure to reinforce the Repub- 
lican party’s “big tent” principle of ac­
ceptance and tolerance for all people.
Keep up the good work, and best of 
luck in the upcoming elections.
Cordially, 
cmuOUT
General Membership
Coffeehouse should 
belong to the students
Hair, boots, police dampen spirits
Douglas Howe
It was bound to 
happen. It was in­
evitable. It’s a law 
of nature I’ve been 
breaking for much 
too long.
I’ve been suc­
cessful for three
years in dodging the swift arm of the law, but it'had to catch 
up to me sometime, and today was the day.
I was booted. I don’t claim 
ignorance or innocent, but 
any time “the man” is in­
volved, I have to whisper in­
justice.
Probably the main reason 
it happened, of all times now, 
is because my fateful editor 
has begun suggesting topics 
for us ill-educated, yet highly 
opinionated writers. Last 
week I was writing, errati­
cally, about the election and 
the adventures involved 
therein.
This week: Transportation.
When I received the email, I 
said to myself, as the girl next 
to me in the cluster looked at 
me funny, “Why in God’s 
name would anyone want to 
write or read about the PAT 
system, how well my car runs
on the lowest level octane, or the sleaziness of car-sales- 
men?” I was non-plussed, I assure you.
But because I uttered those snide, condescending words,
the hands of the harpies quickly threw into my life some­
thing to bitch about.
At first I thought I’d be safe. I was given a “transporta­
tion” story that I could be impartially biased on. The story i 
begins here on our lovely campus, where my roommate’s 
car was parked with its lights on. This was not my roomie’s 
fault. Not by a long shot.
You see, it was his newest lady friend’s fault, who, in the 
past week, has also given his poor Honda Accord a flat tire 
and run so much gas out of it the Saudis are going to make 
our gas tax look like a PBS 
1 donation. In general, she used 
the car. She used the car a lot.
Of course he forgave her 
(translation: loves her and 
therefore acted stupid around 
her) immediately.
His battery was dead and he 
needed a jump, but there was 
not a soul in sight to aid him in 
his struggle. So what did he 
do? What could he do? He was 
up against the wall, proverbi­
ally. He indulged in more stu­
pidity and called Campus Po­
lice. “Of course Campus Police 
will help me. They’re kind and 
sweet and nice. And what else 
do they have to do besides tick­
eting everyone’s car,” he said, 
causing the girl(friend) next to
______ him to look at him funny. An
Amit Kar/Business Manager hour and a half passed. By 
now he has missed his acting class, causing him to be 
sardonically put down by the professor.
Please see CAR, page 5
Clinton examined as election draws nigh
James Stepanek
long liberal Democrat, he is going to vote 
for Dole because he has deep concerns 
about the ethical lapses of the Clinton 
administration and expects both Bill 
and Hillary to be indicted as felons in 
the coming months (Wall Street Jour­
nal, 10/25/06). You don't have to be Re­
publican to consider Clinton a crook (it
caught by now. Let’s face it, the rest are 
not that crooked. I won’t deny that there 
are some who are, but Dole is not one of 
them.
Second, even if we do deny the truth 
and run with the assumption that they 
all are sleazy, why is Clinton the only 
one getting caught?
It certainly isn’t the lack of a sympa*
This will, of course, be the last time I 
will give advice on the election since the just helps), 
day after this article comes out is elec- I’ve argued this point with people be- thetic press, or the active measures of 
tion day. fore on the Net. The best defense that concealment taken by the administra-
I am going to give it one more shot in Clinton fans ever come up with (other tion. Given the assumption of general
my efforts to convince people 
that voting for Clinton is a mis­
take. I know it may be a lost 
cause, but I feel the impor­
tance of the issues requires it.
To put it in simple terms,
Bill Clinton is a criminal. His 
administration is filled with 
either incompetent people or 
crooked ones.
He has accomplished noth- _______
ing positive in his term, and "" 
has done a fair number of negative things. 
There is really no. reason whatsoever to 
vote for the man.
I know, you’re just going to say that’s 
the ranting of a conservative. Well, fine, 
you can assume that, but I’d recommend 
you check out the facts first before you
"... how on earth can anyone 
identify with the man on any is­
sues since Clinton refuses to 
take a stand on any of them for 
any length of time?”
than denying everything which is ut­
terly specious) is to say, “Well Clinton’s 
no worse than the rest — everyone does 
it.” This defense is full of holes large 
enough to drive a Mack truck through.
First of all, if everyone did it, why
corruption, the only way ¡1 
could be that Clinton is get­
ting caught is that he and his 
cronies are all idiots.
Thus, people who support 
the man have the implicit as 
sumption that he is not only 
criminal, but a rank incompo* 
tent.
This is hardly the kind of 
qualifications that one would 
look for to fill the highest of­
fice of the land.
Further, how on earth can anyoflj 
identify with the man on any issues 
since Clinton refuses to take a stand op 
any of them for any length of time: 
mean let’s face it, he‘s not called Slidj 
Willy without reason. You have to loo|_______________________________^ wasn’t there such a mass of resignations
condemn me. David Broder, a liberal and indictments during the Reagan and for his track record on promises. He has
columnist from the Washington Post Bush administrations? Why aren’t most failed in almost every one. Gays in th
lawmakers being investigated for wrong- military? Sorry, we’ll keep the curren 
doings? Why hasn’t Dole been nailed for policy under a new name. Will it be th
something randy? middle class tax cut? Oops, I guess wj
He’s been in office long enough that if can’t afford it. Haitian refugees? 
he were sleazy he would have been Please see PRESIDENT, pa£e
holds this opinion. Simply put, he finds 
Clinton too reprehensible to vote for.
It is also worth noting that Jerome 
Zeifman, the chief council in the 
Watergate investigation, concurs. A life-

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 4 November 19965
Centrist race confuses voter
Rebecca Fribush
As this year’s presidential election race draws to 
^ close, everyone has decided that it’s boring be­
yond belief. When I say “everyone,” of course, I 
n-, inly mean everyone whose opinion finds its way 
1,-j.jo the pages of Newsweek. My following of cur­
rent events is not known for its breadth.
nyway, whoever’s in charge of these things at 
Newsweek has decided that this particular elec­
tion is roughly equivalent in excitement level to 
ving integrals — the kind with all those pesky 
lit le tangents and cotangents embedded in them.
So convinced _______________________________
“Let’s see...both Clinton and Dole 
think education is good, drugs are 
bad, and it’s important to be pre­
pared for the future. Gee, that sure 
makes the decision easier. ”
is he magazine 
)f its view that 
; chose to put 
¡n a recent 
•over not 
] :.nton, not 
Df le, nor any­
one else in­
volved with
politics, but ________________________________
woman ¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦I
w'-ose main ac-
.plishments are being tall and thin and blonde 
{marrying John F. Kennedy, Jr.
So, why is the daughter-in-law of a dead ex­
president considered to be more newsworthy 
than two men who are running for president 
now? She must, look better in tight jeans or 
something.
Be that as it may, the main problem seems to 
be that Clinton and Dole are both tripping over 
themselves trying to please too many people.
The concept does make sense. If they don’t 
please as many people as possible, than they 
won’t win — and then they won’t be pleased.
This leads to boring and obvious statements 
by both candidates. Let’s see, we’ve figured out 
that both Clinton and Dole think education is 
jgood, drugs are bad, and it’s important to be 
prepared for the future. Gee, that sure makes 
the decision easier, 
it’s understandable why the candidates stick 
) saying nice, noncommittal things whenever 
possible, because their critiques of each other
are at best circular. For example, Dole thinks 
Clinton is a liberal. What tipped him off—the fact 
that Clinton was elected once and is running again 
as the Democratic candidate for President?
Dole seems to believe that every time he points 
. out this bit of information, it sends thousands of 
reformed hippies over the fence into the waiting 
arms of the Republican Party.
Maybe one of the debates should have consisted 
entirely of Dole helpfully reminding voters that 
Clinton is a liberal and Clinton countering with the 
news that Dole is a conservative. Ross Perot could 
have been brought in for the second round, with 
both sides forced to work together to decide what to 
call his political persuasion. The possibilities are 
endless. Then the magazines would have had some­
thing really boring to write about. On the bright 
side, the candidates would have been so busy nam-
_______________________________ ing each other’s
beliefs that they 
wouldn’t have 
had time to reit­
erate that drugs 
are bad.
Not surpris­
ingly, the most 
dramatic thing 
to come out of the 
campaign has to 
¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¡¦¦¦¦¦I do
either of the can­
didates have said. It seems that one of Clinton’s top 
aides has been occupying his free time with kinky 
sex for a number of years, resulting in a good book 
deal for the kinkette. Only he’s not a top aide 
anymore, because Clinton, aware that surrounding 
himself with people who engage in kinky sex would 
just give Dole one more excuse to point out that he’s 
a liberal, got him out of there as fast as he could. If 
nothing else, that episode at least caught the 
attention of many voters. Now if we somehow 
had proof that Clinton himself had been having 
kinky sex on a regular basis, or, even better, that 
Dole had been, maybe the election would become 
an truly exciting one.
Hmmm, maybe that’s where that tall blonde 
woman could eventually come in.....
Becca Fribush is a freshman history major. She 
would like to take this opportunity to say that she 
believes drugs are very, veiy bad and has never 
engaged in kinky sex of any kind. She does, of course, 
welcome any responsible replies to her column.
Shady deals spell 
possible disaster
PRESIDENT, from page 4
Uh, on reconsideration, Bush was right. China civil rights 
abuses? Uh, I don’t think we can tie trade to that. Gay marriage? 
This one is really good since it was signed late at night to not 
gamer attention, and then he had the gall to brag about it on 
advertisements on Christian radio stations. Things are not 
looking overly rosy.
Of course, his statement that his administration would have 
the highest ethical standards ever is even more laughable. 
Welfare reform?
Yep he signed a bill passed by the GOP congress, but has since 
promised to “fix” it. You simply cannot trust this man any 
further than you can throw him (and he has been putting down 
a fair number of Big Macs at that).
Also, a little note to those of you who care about the issue of 
privacy. The Clinton administration has used a record number 
of wiretaps during this term and has repeatedly lobbied for 
more extensive wiretapping powers.
Also Clinton is vocally in favor of government mandated 
encryption which leaves a back-door for federal sneaks to read 
your private material. Dole, on the other hand, has come out in 
favor of private encryption of any and all quality levels. Keep 
this in mind when you become concerned about who is likely to 
have Big Brother watching you. He may have blonde hair and 
a charismatic grin.
I’d like you to make a few considerations before you go to vote 
on Tuesday. The first is that even if Clinton is re-elected, the 
odds of his serving out the term are mighty slim.
This nation really doesn’t need the pain of another episode 
like Watergate. Also, if you haven’t managed to keep informed 
of things (this column is really only a start at that), maybe you 
shouldn’t vote.
I know, I should be going on about the civic duty of voting, but 
let’s face it — an uninformed decision is quite likely to be the 
wrong decision. There is still time, but consider all facets of the 
race so far.
Lastly, if you do intend to vote, do consider the third party 
people if you don’t like Dole. There are a fair number of people 
who will be on the ballot and many of them are worthy of 
consideration. Contrary to popular belief, there are other choices 
besides those appearing on CNN. Keep your scope wide while in 
the voting booth. Something has to be done.
Despite what people may say, votingfor a candidate who is not 
likely to win is not throwing away your vote. That’s caving to 
those who want you to vote their way.
James Stepanek is a doctoral student in Materials Science and 
Engineering. He welcomes any responsible replies to his column.
Columnist experiences intricacies of parking politics
CAR, from page 4
Finally, City of Pittsburgh of­
ficer drives by. In his nicest, 
sweetest, ass-kissing way, he 
asked if the cop could give him a 
amp.
The cop laughed in full merri­
ment and glee, and responded in 
the most sarcastic way possible. 
“What do you think I am? I’ve got 
more important things to do.
Do you see these donuts next to 
me? There’s a full box, and I’ve 
got to reach a quota here.”
My roomie was saddened, but 
a hour later, a campus cop 
showed up. Thank goodness for 
promptness! My roomie led him 
up to his car, and, honest to God, 
the cop said, “I’m sorry, kid. I 
can’t go over there. That’s not 
within my jurisdiction.” ‘ 
Jurisdiction? Now, my room­
mate was asking for a jump, so he 
-ould continue his education at 
wir fair institution, not for a blood 
ransfusion, but alas, he was de­
nied. They were willing to cross 
he line, though, to give him a 
icketfor illegal parking, though, 
heedless to say, my roommate
was a bit upset that day, but he 
got over it.
Then the aliens stepped in and 
took over. The day after the bat­
tery affair, two friends, Dusty 
and Kim, and I were going to off- 
campus for lunch.
We stopped off at the bank to 
get some cash and get charged an 
extra 50 cents to use the MAC 
machine, because, well, why not 
suck more money from us?
As we walked back to my car, I 
noticed what looked like a dead 
bird of some kind sticking out of 
my exhaust pipe. Upon further 
examination by Kim, since Dusty 
and I were too wimpy to dig in 
there, we discovered that it was 
hair. Lots and lots of hair.
We drove back to my house and 
used a coat hanger to attempt to 
get the nasty mess out of the 
tailpipe.
A half hour later, -and literally 
about six cats worth of hair, my 
pipe was clean. All I could say 
was, “What in blue blazes hap­
pened?”
Who would do that? If it were 
an animal that crawled into my
car, I would have been more ac­
cepting, though more depressed, 
but this was just bizarre.
It wasn’t wig hair, but cut, long, 
black hair with glue on it. Why 
would someone do that to my car? 
Was it a prank? Was it revenge?
Or was it some alien life form 
that has now infiltrated my skin 
fibers and will soon wreak havoc 
over my body and the world at 
large?
So, the boot! I’ve never paid a 
parking ticket. As soon as I get 
them, I rip them up. Screw the 
system. They can’t tell me how to 
run my life. That bit of earth 
where I choose to place my car is 
as much mine as it is theirs. You 
can’t own land.
Well, okay, you can own land, 
but theoretically you can’t, and, 
dammit, I work off of principle. 
So my principle happens to dras­
tically differ from that of the sys­
tem, but does that make it wrong?
Apparently, yes, it does, and 
that’s why I found a boot on my 
car today.
I was peeved. Obviously. I 
mean, I haven’t met anyone who
was overjoyed about getting a 
stinking boot.
If I did, I might have to have a 
long, intense talk with them, and, 
to help, I’d first get them to de­
nounce membership to the Re­
publican party and go from there.
All day, as my roommate can 
attest to, I was repeating the 
word, “Pig,” in order to control 
my urges when I got down to 
the pound to pay my fine of 
$300. (So there goes eating and 
heat for the rest of the year, but 
am I upset? Noooo.)
I regret to say, this story doesn’t 
end like a Bruce Willis movie. I 
wasted my day, paid my fine, and 
went on my way.
I would have protested, for 
protesting’s sake, but then I’d 
have to waste more time in court, 
waiting for them to tell me I was 
even more wrong and, as I was 
pulled from the court room for 
calling everybody pigs, I would 
have been thrown into the 
slammer, with a big friend of my 
own named Bubba and no seat on 
the toilet, in case I hit myself on 
the head and drowned.
To tell you the truth, I felt like 
the Joads in Grapes of Wrath. 
(Wow, I actually made a literary 
reference. Kudos to my English 
teacher.) All this rage and anger, 
but no one to blame.
I could bla -ie the Officer who 
gave me the boot, or all the snotty 
people I talk2d to on the phone 
who didn’t answer any of my ques­
tions, or the President for insti­
tuting such idiotic rules, but alas, 
there is no one person to blame, 
just the system.
Trapped in a hopeless system, 
where I’m supposedly “protected” 
from other, but more accurately, 
I’m prevented from being myself.
Just remember that it doesn’t 
have to be this way and that “there 
is no inevitability as long as there 
is a willingness to contemplate 
what is happening.”
Douglas Howe is looking for­
ward to the rash of parking tick­
ets he expects to receive from irate 
readers. He also likes M&Ms, but 
wishes they still made the tan 
ones. He welcomes any respon­
sible replies to his column.
Being that the holiday of David Getty 
demonic treachery has come Freshman 
and gone, we decided to take Art 
a last look at the foolish su­
perstitions of the peasants.
We asked: Do you believe in 
ghosts?
“I guess not. I believe in life, 
not ghosts, roaming around. 
When you die your life floats 
around and then it’s recycled 
into a tree or something.”
Zoe Woodworth
Sophomore
CS
“No, you cannot grow up in my 
family, a family of scientists, 
and believe in ghosts without 
being the brunt of family 
shame.”
John Rosenberg
Freshman
CS
“Sometimes, because it’s re­
ally early and I just woke up.”
Scott Hess/Tartan Photographer
Christen Thomas
Freshman
Architecture
“Yes. I have a friend who has 
a ghost in her house. It has 
turned on the TV and turned 
over stuff while I was there. ”
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper 
Since 1906 
Ed.-ln-Chief.. Kenneth J. Kraemer 
Managing Ed. Andrew McDermott
Business Manager...........Amit Kar
News Editor..........Becky A.Cowser
Forum Editor....................John Biggs
Sports Editor...............Paul Boothe
Features Editor.....................Sharmila
Venkatasubban
Diversions Editor.................Ena Khan
Acting Calendar Ed...................Kevin
AuYoung
Dossier Dsgn. Eds.Laura Varrachi
............................Paulina Berczynski
Dossier Lit. Ed............Kevin Meehan
Art Co-Editor........Gabrien Symons
Art Co-Editor........................Simona Lo
Photo Editor.......Jason Siegendorf
Production Mgr. Elizabeth Neuman 
Advertising Manager Chintan Shah
Systems Manager...............1-Ping Li
Copy Manager........Winter Mason
Asst. News Editor.... Chris Cannon 
Asst. Features Editor ...Julee White
Asst. Diversions Ed........Jay Miolla
Asst. Sports Ed...........Dawn Papuga
Asst. Forum Editor... Jenny Garcia 
de Osuna
Asst. Production Manager..William 
Holtz
Darkroom Manager.......Jim Snyder
Personnel Mgr................Eric Salzman
Contributing Editors 
Matthew Solitro
Senior Staff 
Gil Alterovitz, Jason Andracki,
Matt Bail
Staffwriters 
Chris Adukaitis, Ellen Beldner, Steve 
Charnoubi, Matt Cuccaro, Annemarie 
Devine, Ryan Donovan, Dave Elman, 
Dan Goldwasser. Tom Harper, Adam 
Klivans, Wladimir Labeikovsky, Alex 
Lewin, Trevor Meyerowitz, Dizzy 
Murphy, Tracy Odell, Jon Orris, 
Sudhir Reddy, Dan Rosenberg, 
Ronak Singhal, Amanda Spear, 
NathanSteinweld, James Stepanek, 
Jessica Strelitz, Andrew Wang, Su­
san Watson, Bradley Zimmerman
Art
Ryan Rhoads
Comics
Nick Casclato, Akira Hasegawa, 
Hiroml Hasegawa, Jack Liu, David 
Wingrove, David White
Photo
Ava Bai, Eva Bal, Diana Bartolotta, 
Anthony Chao, Elizabeth Kanabe, 
Anukul Kapoor, Barry Langer, Maciej 
Matyjas, Llsette Miller-Dixon, 
Gustavo Sganzerla
Darkroom 
Yosef Blrnboim, Amy Cristomo, Ellas 
Fallon, Scott Hess, Colleen Man­
ning, Paul Moore
Production 
Kevin Babbitt, Steven Chai, Jenni­
fer Li, Izzit Raheem, Anne Ray, Diana 
Rutherford, Alison Scudiere, Craig 
Soules
Copy
Lori Bowes, Mimi Cheng, Ivor 
Clarke, Helena McGahagan, Victor 
Ortega, Catherine Senderling
Business 
Michael Averbuch, GauravDudhoria, 
Patricia DiGiuseppi, Chris Hong, 
Stephen Hsu, Avinash Jain, Amit 
Sheth
Junior Staff 
Neil Babra, Melissa Batt, Vineet 
Chander, Rebecca Fribush, Chuck 
Fryman, Rhonda Gillespie, Eric Haas, 
Pratish Haladay, Eric Holowka, Will, 
Isenhour, Ken Kwalik, Masha 
Kovarsky,Tom Lin, Kenneth Namkung; 
Danielle Pierratti, Jessica Rhodes, 
JayaSaxena, Andrew Seymour, Reena 
Singhal, Meena Vagnier, Julie Wil­
son, Will Wood
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carnegie Mellon University. It Is a weekly newspaper pub­lished by students during the fall and spring semesters, at no cost to members of the Univer­sity community. It is printed by Western Pennsyl­vania Printing, Inc. Subscriptions are available for the semester or academic year. The editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The Tartan editorial board. Columns and political cartoons are the opinions of individual creators. The Tartan re­serves the right to reject or condense any column or political cartoon. Letters to the Editor are opinions of authors who are usually, but not necessarily, members of the University commu­nity. A letter intended for publication must be signed and include the writer’s address and phone number for verification. Names may be withheld upon request. The Tartan requests that letters be no longer than 500 words. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject any letter. Copyright © 1996 by The Tartan. The Tartan editorial board reserves the right to withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication.Office: Student Center Room 104 Phone: 412/268-2111Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/Camegie Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890 Funded in part by your Activities Fee.All rights reserved.Uljrary ofCongress ISSN #: 0890- JB3107. ASVfcThe Tartan is a member of the Associated Press. m

---------------------------------------------------

aT E7T/ ayl1tSep BAiB- 1l TAi EBMg
h
After graduation, make your 
career move...to SCO.
You’ll find your place in high technology at 
SCO'. At SCO, we’re the leading supplier of 
UNIX: system software for business critical 
environments. Your career at SCO could 
begin on such projects as UNIX Core 
Development, layered server products, 
the SCO UnixWare or working with our 
development partner, Hewlett-Packard, 
on the next-generation 64-bit UNIX.Pizza and BMWs
Today, we’re working with such Fortune 1000 
companies as BMW, Pizza Hut, Marriott 
and the NASDAQ stock market. SCO 
Development Centers are located in Santa 
Cruz, CA; Florham Park, NJ and in the UK 
at Watford (near London), Cambridge and 
Leeds. Our corporate headquarters are in
Santa Cruz, California, one of the greatest 
beach towns in America, a short drive, 
yet worlds away from Silicon Valley and 
San Francisco.
At SCO, you'll have the opportunity to do 
some great work, in a great place. Begin 
your development at SCO.We will be on Campus November 18-20, 1996
See your Planning and Placement Office 
for more details.
Contact us directly by sending your resume 
to College Relations, SCO,
400 Encinal Street, P.O. Box 1900,
Santa Cruz, CA 95061-1900.
We are an equal opportunity employer.
SCO
333h/M1hM1Sft INFORMIX'
IJHiMT ti2BTe1yB2 TiMAy121•Uh 
aT /iEBtBTi/ TAi Eitl1tSit/ lt1S TAi EtiTiy-it/h
I
i
r* ?V','-V*',v
II
Informix offers a generous compensation package 
including comprehensive benefits. For immediate consid­
eration, please send your resume, indicating Dept. 
CM 1104, to: Informix Software, Inc., College Recruiting, 
4100 Bohannon Drive, Menlo Park, CA 94025. FAX (800) 
200-8457. E-mail: resumix@informix.com.
For information on opportunities at Informix, please 
check out our Web site: http://www.informix.com. We are 
committed to workforce diversity. EOE M/F/D/V.
Today, Informix has the only fully integrated product fea­
turing object relational technology. No one else even 
comes close. Right now, we've got the market all to our­
selves. And we intend to keep it that way. With database 
sales up 61% over last quarter alone, we have the finan­
cial strength to expand our lead even further. So if you 
want to work with technology others can only talk about, 
you belong with us.
There's room at the top for every qualified software engi­
neering graduate who wants to share the excitement. It's 
the right time at Informix, right now.
On-Campus Interviews 
Thursday, November 14th
Please contact your Career Center for more details.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 4 November 19967
penguins slide into basement
t 4aNNb 
Ird9Cd
WE DELIVER GREAT TASTE 
TO YOÜR DOOR
Oakland/CMG
687-9555WE ACCEPT CAMPUS 
EXPRESS AND 
DINE EXPRESS
4740 BAUM BLVD. 
Open 7 days a week
Sun - Thurs Fri & Sat
11 am - 2 am 11 am - 3 am
You’ve got a lot to grin about when you use AT&T or an 
AT&T Universal MasterCards. Like an AT&T True Rewards5 
Member Benefit Card. Just flash it and:
• Sam Goody/Musicland gives you a 15% discount 
on CDs and cassettes.
• “TCBY”* Treats gives you a freebie after you buy two.
• BLOCKBUSTER VIDEO' makes your third movie free 
when you rent two!*
•Amtrak lets your companion travel for 25% off 
But True Rewards is just one part of our special 
college package. Here are some more:
ATXTTrue Reach*Savings ÄIXT\forldNet“Service AKTLhnersalMasterCard'
To sign up for the AT&T True Rewards® Program, call
1 800 654-0471
Your True Choice
http://www.att.com/college

---------------------------------------------------

Ca
Ha7t7t\j/ Hcrup
(Happy Hour)
1/2 npixe ApivKo!(1/2 Price Drinks!) Monday through Saturday 5pm - 7pm
Union Grill
413 lendr .sif1 lds00d fo micLio4 681-8620 
mD0o ves gnoIr io4 Ffoo0s ueo4i• drsn lidns4i•
*** » ¦>' , //, - *3"*r nía
INFORMATION SESSION: November 12 
6:00 pm - 8:00 pm in 210B Peter Room, New University Center
ON-GAMPUS INTERVIEWS: November 13
Unino Grl web inoe: www.qralcGmm.cGm
* »¦>',/--
©ulte ®nü)etóttp
SchGGl Gf Engnneelnng
The School of Engineering at Duke University is 
seeking well-qualified candidates for graduate studies 
in engineering leading to M.S. and Ph.D. degrees. The 
school has four departments: Biomedical Engineering, 
Civil & Environmental Engineering, Electrical & 
Computer Engineering, and Mechanical Engineering 
& Materials Science. Currently, students at Duke are 
involved in a wide range of funded research topics including: ultrasound,
¦ ' radar signal processing, antenna design, parallel and distributed computer
! systems, active control, fluid mechanics, computational fluid and solid me-
! chanics, geomechanics, transportation and systems engineering, speech analy-
j sis, thermodynamics and heat transfer, water resources, biomaterials and
biomechanics, turbomachinery, nonlinear dynamics and chaos ocean physics 
\ i and acoustics, materials science, aerodynamics and acoustics, aeroelasticity,
! • signal processing, digital and medical imaging, biofluid mechanics, semicon-
J ductor materials, medical informatics, environmental engineering, structural
1 " engineering, cardiovascular mechanics, computer architecture, and engineer-
' .. ing mechanics. Graduate Research Assistantships are available.
; -¦ More information is available on our World Wide Web site,http://
! - www.egr.duke.edu. For answers to specific questions regarding admission 
j and financial aid, contact one of the directors of graduate studies:
L - Prof. Gregg E. Trahey, Biomedical Engineering, get@egr.duke.edu.
Prof. Loren W. Nolte, Electrical & Computer Engineering, lwn@ee.duke.edu 
Prof. James F. Wilson, Civil & Environmental Engineering, jfw@egr.duke.edu 
Prof. Charles M. Harman, Mechanical Engineering & Materials Science, 
cmh@egr.duke.edu.
AT&TCELLULAR SALES
Ryan Catholic Newman Center
4450 Bayard Street 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
681-3181
Fr. Bryan Summers, C.O., Director
f* I - C C Fr. Drew Morgan, C.O.
otail VoS.) Fr. David Abernethy C.O.
Fr. Joseph Linck, C.O.Joseph ]
Sr. Bernadette Young, C.D.P.
Seasonal and Part Time Opportunities Are Ringing
AT&T Wireless Services, the leader in cellular technology, is currently hiring for Part 
Time and Seasonal Retail Sales Associates. There are serveral kiosk locations 
throughout the Greater Pittsburgh area and suburbs within many Giant 
Eagle's, Hills, Wal-Marts, and Shop 'n Save's.
Responsibilites include:
- Selling cellular service & equipment
- Performing service activations
- Projecting a friendly, positive, & professional image to potential customers
; Qualifications:
: - Ability to work 11 am-8 pm /Saturday and 12 pm-6 pm/Sunday 
: (Seasonal employees must be available between 11/29/96 and 1/4/97)
: - Aggressive, sales/results-oriented individuals 
; - Flexibility to work within multiple retail locations 
: - Dependable with good job sttability 
: - Minimum high school educatoin/GED required 
; - Prior sales experience helpful
Interested candidates should call (412) 680-5169. Please leave your name, num­
ber, related work experiences, and preferred location.
Payrate is $6.25/hr plus Commision
AT&T Wireless Services is an Equal Opportunity Employer
Campus Mass 
Schedule .Carrie
Sundays: (in the old wing behind Posner Hall)1 fi-QH e” ”*":**>
S VJ.OVJ AM Posner Hall (GSIA), .............................
Mellon Auditorium
H| |l 1 Sunday Night! "''Jf:
¦ V«/V^ PM Posner Hall (GSIA), •¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦•••
Mellon Auditorium
Weekdays Mon-Fri:
12:30PM University Center Chapel

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 4 November 1996
/eT BT1E TAi 6F9
4th and 26
by Steve Charnoubi
Who’s the best team in the 
NFL? All AFC teams are dis­
qualified, because since 1984, 
the AFC has automatically lost 
in the Super Bowl.
The best team must then be 
'in the NFC. The obvious 
'choice is the Green Bay 
¡-Packers with an 8-1 
'»record. But now, the 
¿Packers are without 
:their two starting re- 
¡ceivers, Robert Brooks 
'.(out for the season)
[and Antonio Freeman 
jout 3-5 weeks), and 
¡lieir replacements, Don Beebe 
'and Terry Mickens, aren’t ex­
actly striking fear into the 
hearts of opposing defensive 
Coordinators. After barely es­
caping an embarrassing loss to 
the lowly Tampa Bay Bucca­
neers (1-7) by a score of 17-14, 
¡plenty of doubt remains about 
whether the Cheeseheads of 
¡Wisconsin are still cheering for 
the best team in the NFL.
The fans at 3-Com park in 
;San Francisco may think that 
¡they’ve got the best team. They 
'still have the man, the myth, 
the legend, Jerry Rice, but he 
and the defense are about the 
only sure things besides earth­
quakes in the Bay area. Steve 
young and Elvis Grbac have 
Jjeen trading starting roles all 
season long due to injuries, and 
the 49ers have yet to find a 
running game.
The Dallas Cowboys have re­
bounded nicely after a slow start 
due mainly to a lack of disci­
pline and the suspension of wide 
receiver Michael Irvin. But at 
[5-4 they have hardly anything 
to boast about. They are cur­
rently third in their division, 
?nd if they want to defend their 
Super Bowl title, the wild card 
route will have to be the way, 
now.
The Washington Redskins 
Saw a seven-game winning 
streak come to an end Sunday 
jvith a loss to the Buffalo Bills, 
and they are just starting the 
tougher end of their schedule. 
Norv Turner deserves a medal 
for holding on to the NFC East 
title for six straight weeks and 
givingthe good citizens of Wash­
ington something more inter­
esting to pay attention to than 
Dole and'Bill Clinton.
! Then by default, the best team 
jn the NFL is the Philadelphia 
( „ es.
i When Jeff Lurie purchased 
jhis team three years ago, he 
watched his team led by Rich 
Kotite go 7-2 and then lose 
seven straight games to miss 
tiie playoffs. Kotite was fired, 
49ers defensive coordina­
tor Ray Rhodes was brought in. 
Rhodes lead the Eagles into the 
playoffs.
W After losing 1995 defensive 
starters Kurt Gouveia, Bill 
Romanowski, Mark McMillian.
arid Greg Jackson go to free 
agency, Rhodes looked to have 
his work cut out for him trying 
patch up all the holes on de­
fense. The Eagles signed tran­
sitional free agent cornerback 
Troy Vincent away from Miami 
by cleverly manipulating the. 
salary cap so that the Dolphins 
couldn’t match the offer, simi­
lar to how they stole Ricky 
Watters away from San 
Francisco the year be­
fore. Rhodes then 
drafted safety
Brian Dawkins, who leads the 
Eagles in interceptions, and line­
backer Ray Farmer, both of whom 
currently start.
Rhodes next priority was to 
fix the offense. He signed quar­
terback Ty Detmer who is cur­
rently 4-0 in his
San Francisco couu Frankfurt RKom Paris cKKmAthens RKmmIstanbul cfomTel Aviv cf5mCairo c,umo£' Mt wbx0 0. Pxk lTyVkD k'Y I0 b zGTx. orx0bVCh FB£ OI 0Id zrz w0V. k' x­ llxV ..azf cf bkO cZjn wIdI; x6 zR.bWCk jD
Call for a FREE 
Student Timéis Magazine!
Sì!IBSIl7mng/ -AAn dwatch fowr e.TTusyt,Nv ef A12AW 
(412) 683-1881
mm
Simona Lo/Tärtan Art Co-Editor
first four starts, and 34-year- 
old wide receiver Irving Fryar, 
who is having his best season 
ever in his career.
Detmer, whose playing style 
resembles a young Joe Montana, 
has taken a lot of pressure off 
running back Ricky Watters, 
who leads the NFL in total 
yards from scrimmage.
Barring an injury to Detmer, 
Watters, or Fryar, the 1996 Phila­
delphia Eagles seem prepared to 
take the NFC East division, and 
have a strong possibility of gain­
ing homefield advantage 
throughout the playoffs.
The,Eagles future looks very 
bright, and the NFC will prob­
ably come down to a show­
down between them and the 
Packers.
Steve Charnoubi is a junior 
CS major who’s hoping to get 
tickets to see Phish on New 
Year’s Eve in Boston.
diBS31tg JiBT/ 'tBsi/
TEAM, from page 11
series never pitched more 
than an inning a game. But 
he also only gave up one run 
in the entire series. Wohlers, 
on the other hand, gave up 
three runs to the Yankees in 
game four in what was the 
second biggest comeback in 
World Series history.
And after that game, it 
appeared the Braves were 
history. In the final two \l 
games, Atlanta would just 
manage 13 hits and only three 
for extra bases. The Braves 
put up similar numbers in the 
first game alone.
In a battle that said goodbye 
to two-storied stadiums, the 
series gave the best that the 
sport has to offer. From the 
first game’s fireworks, to a mi­
raculous comeback, to 
pitcher’s duel, the team of 
the decade and team of the 
century showed what 
baseball’s all about: Team.
Chris Cannon is a junior com­
puter science major and Assis­
tant News Editor of The Tartan.
Amtrak® fares, each way*, from Pittsburgh to:
New York City
$55
Chicago$52
Toledo Cleveland
Pittsburgh
Philadelphia$1+2
Washington D.C.$1+2
The cheapest distance 
between two points just 
got ¥)% cheaper...
V97.
^STUDEt^
88,31/97.„.RA .. .ilfcX1? _
AD'
SAMS
800B9‘V’6
Student Advantage® members 
save 15% on most fares.
To get a Student Advantage 
Savings Card, call 
I -800-96-AMTRAK®.
AMTRAK
For reservations call your travel agent orI-800-USA-RAIL
www.amtrak.com
* Fares shown are per person, each way based on round trip ticket purchase and are not good on certain blackout dates. Some destinations require reservations. Fares and schedule subject to change without notice. Other restrictions may apply.
%II* ¦ 
% Í*
¡ü 8

---------------------------------------------------

10The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 4 November 1996
By JESSICA STRELITZ
Thrtan Staffwriter
. Normally, in hockey, there is 
little to be said for a team that 
loses a game 5-0. Shut-out is the 
term and you would much rather 
see it on your side than the oppo­
nents. But, although CMU lost to 
West Virginia II on Friday 5-0, 
they came home Saturday night 
to slap Robert Morris College 6-
2,. Friday night was an important 
exhibition game because, despite 
$ie( loss, CMU was able to show­
case one of their newest prized 
possessions, the future in 
goaltending for the team, fresh­
man Gil Min.
West Virginia is a team known 
for its powerful forwards, hard 
shots and vicious, if not dirty, 
play. Friday was no different, with 
WVU racking up 26 penalty min­
utes, 18 of them in the last five 
minutes of the third period. The 
game had been very close up till 
that point. CMU was down 1-0 
through the first two periods, 
playing decent hockey. Their 
shots, 26 to WVU’s 29, were ei­
ther gobbled up by the WVU 
netminder, or clanged the post. 
Seniors Jim Buck and Chris 
Adukaitis were the only two play­
ers with viable scoring chances 
the entire game.
_ There was solid play from 
spphomore Steve Leonhart and 
freshman Ryohei Ota, as both 
skated hard and played their po­
sitions well. Assistant captain 
i^dukaitis praised the two for­
wards. “Steve was skating hard, 
hjitting hard, playing his posi­
tion, marked his man in front 
perfectly; he didn’t watch the puck 
ajt all. Rio drew two penalties by 
seating hard and forechecking, 
ije didn’t shy away from contact. 
It was easily his best game of the 
y£ar.”
; CMU looked good on the power 
play, skating strong in the first 
frjvo periods. But CMU was allow­
ing too many odd man rushes. 
Goaltender Min said, “A number 
of their shots came on 2-on-l’s 
afid they had 4-5 breakaways, 
a|ong with a number of shots in 
cljose.”
; But this agressive behavior was 
W^at drove WVU to the net in the 
tl)ird period and broke down the 
fragile wall that the defense had 
b$en trying to build around Min 
the entire game. Ota said, “By 
thjen, we were definitely not play­
ing as good as we were against, 
NYU. We could all see that Gil 
w&s about the only one keeping 
us in the game.” Adukaitis said, 
“Gil stood on his head to keep us 
ini the game. By far the best 
goaltending I’ve seen this year.”
After pulling his hamstring
earlier in the season, Min was 
supposed to be out of commission 
for up to six weeks. He came back 
early though, and after a few pe­
riods of play before this game, 
Coach Fred Mad-dalena knew 
that he was ready to 
face the big boys. He 
warned Min that there 
would be a lot of shots, 
but Min has performed 
admirably the entire 
season thus far, espe­
cially in games where 
his acrobatic tenden­
cies come out. He is a 
very mobile
goaltender. Min said, “
I felt really good dur­
ing the first and sec-, 
ond [periods], just re­
lying on my reflexes 
and instincts and got 
lucky a few times. Ba­
sically, I just tried to 
keep us in the game as 
long as I could, but I 
guess my luck just ran 
out. By the time the third period 
came by, I think I, along with the 
team, was just too tired trying to 
stop their attack.”
WVU scored three goals in 
thirty seconds in the third pe­
riod, and added one more to seal 
the game with seven minutes left, 
totally frustrating the CMU 
squad. The game was blown open 
by the three-goal attack. CMU 
picked up several penalties, no­
tably an Adukaitis unsportsman­
like call in the last minutes, out 
of the frustration with the refer­
ees, missed opportunities and 
sloppy passing.
But Min never gave up hope. 
“Despite the score, I think that 
we could have beaten them. As a 
freshman, I feel as if I have some­
thing to prove to everyone on the 
team, not that I can just play at 
this level, but dominate when I 
play well.” That he did.
Robert Morris College came to 
town Saturday, seeking ven­
geance for the humiliation that 
CMU dealt them last semester in 
a 12-2 win in Moon. They 
wouldn’t get it, as the Tartans 
rolled over RMC, 6-2.
The first period was all Buck. 
After a lot of dumping and chas­
ing and .trying to figure out the 
balance of their opponents, the 
Tartan offense got to work. Buck 
tallied his first goal of the night, 
seven minutes into the period, in 
the slot. Junior Scott Fitzgerald 
saw him just calling out to be 
passed to, and Buck got the shot 
past RMC’s disoriented goalie. 
The period was tame after the 
initial fire. CMU poured on the 
shots while starting goatender 
Jon Kliegman lolled in net, stop­
ping the three shots on that pe­
riod, working very well down low.
The second goal of the period 
came from Buck, a nice low wrist 
shot that smacked snugly into 
the top left-hand corner of the 
net. This was off a feed from the
Ivanovic certainly didn’t look like 
a player who had missed two 
weeks of practice due to illness.
With the play winding down, 
the first line rushed down the ice 
once more. The puck went from
Anthony Chao/Tartan Photo Staff 
Senior forward Anthony Paul speeds along the boards, beating an RMC defender.
first line offense of senior for­
ward Anthony Paul and 
Fitzgerald..
With a 2-0 lead in hand, the 
line of Leonhart and freshmen 
Graham Hicks and Brandon 
Paluzzi, strutted all over the ice. 
The three played a solid game. 
After a quick RMC power play 
goal in the beginning of the sec­
ond, CMU drew a pen­
alty to score their own 
power play goal min­
utes later. Anthony 
Paul, attacking the 
net, flicked in his own 
rebound unassisted 
two minutes into the 
second to make it 3—1,
CMU. This started the 
volley of four unan­
swered goals by CMU.
A line change 30 sec­
onds after the first 
Paul game put P.J.
Gryzwacz in scoring 
position with feed from 
defensive pair, grad 
student Blair Echols 
and junior Bryan 
Campo. The wrap­
around goal slid under 
the RMC goalie 
stickside.
Campo was on fire 
for the rest of the game, 
playing very hard to 
be first to the puck and 
keep the zone free. His 
crushing checks sent 
the RMC offense away 
reeling. With pressure 
from the second line towards the 
end of the period, fancy stickwork 
from senior Relja Ivanovic helped 
him to score along the ice, under 
the goaltender’s left leg. With the 
feed from Fitzgerald and Campo,
Fitzgerald to Buck who hesitated 
before putting the puck right on 
Paul’s stick, who flipped the disk 
over the fatigued goalie’s right 
shoulder. All net.
In the closing seconds of the 
period, Adukaitis took a smart 
penalty, breaking up an RMC 
skater who was bearing down 
alone on Kliegman. The period
Anthony Chao/Tartan Photo Staff
Freshman Ryohei Ota controls the puck while 
challenging the defenders.
ended with CMU leading 6-1. 
With the addition of another RMC 
power play goal halfway through 
the third, the game ended peace­
fully,. The fourth line of freshmen 
Doreen Mulryan and Michael 
Baker and senior Matt 
Williams also saw play­
ing time in the third.
Kliegman ended the 
game with 12 solid saves, 
including one late in the 
third where he leapt above 
the screening line to knock 
down the puck with his 
blocker. The Tartans 
outshot Robert Morris 27 
to 14.
CMU is still waiting for 
its leaders to appear. The 
team seems to be suffer­
ing from the loss of two 
feeders, Roger Maddalena 
and Andy Oxnard, both 
out with injuries. There 
are many great scorers on 
the team, but with incon­
sistent play the snipers 
are all standing around waiting 
for someone to pass them the 
puck. Dino Sanchez and Ivanovic 
are visibly suffering from the loss 
of the two players. Sanchez was 
paired with Oxnard’s soft hands 
and long-legged stride to the net 
as freshmen. A rookie sensation 
last year, Ivanovic has been 
plagued with illness and frustra­
tion from various inju­
ries, but also no longer 
has Maddalena to bullet 
him the puck as he skates 
the slot.
Leonhart said, “This 
team is young and has 
not worked together 
enoughin practice. Ithink 
as the season progresses, 
the team will grow and 
strengthen, and hope­
fully we will peak at the 
right time.” With a 2-3-1 
start, andfacingDuquense 
next weekend, it has to 
come quick.
CMU faces the 
Duquesne Dukes at 
home next Saturday at 5 
pm. Free buses leave 
from the University Cen­
ter at 4:30 pm to shuttle 
students to the game. 
Admission is $2. There 
will be free skate for 
CMU students starting 
at 8 pm after the game. 
Skate rentals are $2. The 
bus will also shuttle stu­
dents back to CMU after 
the game and skate.
classified
POR SALE
Spring Break '97. Do it 
with Sun Splash Tours! 
With 10 years experience, 
reliability, and the highest 
regards in the market,
SST has become the #1 to 
the hottest destinations! 
Frfee trip on 13 sales! 
Highest commissions!
C4II for free info packet: 
Sujnspalsh 1-800-426-7710. 
w^vW.sunsplashtour.com.
1988 Pontiac 6000 $1800 
B/iO. 1990 Pontiac 6000, 
fujly loaded $4000 B/O. 
Bolth in excellent running 
condition. Call 531-0929.
JQBS
Earn money and free
trips! Individuals and 
groups wanted to promote 
spring break! Call Inter- 
Campus Programs at 1- 
800-327-6013 or http:// 
www.icpt.com.
Musicians, poets, thespi- 
ans. and comedians 
needed for open mike in 
Shadyside Christian cof­
feehouse venue. October, 
November, December 
dates. Call United Campus 
Ministry at 682-1051 or 
check+@andrew.cmu.edu.
Childcare in Pt. Breeze for
fun 5 year old. 3-6:30 M-F; 
additional hours available; 
non-smoker; car; clear­
ances; references; leave 
message at 288-5385.
TRAVEL
Low student and faculty 
fares to international 
destinations. Good do­
mestic fares, AYH and 
EURAIL passes. 9-5 M-F, 
10-Noon Saturday. 4608 
Winthrop Street, off South 
Craig. Forum Travel 681- 
4099.
Classified Rates
1-20 words..........$10.00/wk
21-50 words.........S12.00/wk
51-100 words......$15.00/wk
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Boxi 7 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
•Classifieds must be paid in cash or 
check before first run date
•On-campus departments and organiza­
tions may pay by journal transfer
•Due by 5 pm the Thursday before 
publication
THE TARTAN 
268-2111
Hockey shut out by WVU, demolishes RMCSeries fix theorized
Lt’s showtime at Busch Gardens Williamsburg! No other 
place offers you such a variety of performance possibilities 
including seven highly energized mainstage shows, a 
rockin' band of roving musicians, and dozens of street 
actors, mimes, jugglers and variety artists. As a cast mem­
ber you'll have the opportunity to hone your skills by per­
forming hundreds of shows to thousands of guests. Free 
classes and seminars in dance, voice and drama conduct­
ed by our production staff and guest instructors offer you 
a means to continue growing your talents. We have an 
excellent sports medicine program and a housing coordi­
nator to assist you in finding the best accommodations, 
Cast members enjoy free access to Busch Gardens 
Williamsburg, and our sister park Water Country USA.
More than 250 positions available:
Singers, Dancers, Musicians, 
Actors, Variety Artists. 
Technicians
including stage managers, audio engineers, 
lighting and follow spot operators and wardrobe dressers 
with sewing experience
All age groups are welcome, as along as, you are 16 years 
old by June 1997. 1996 cast members ages ranged from 16 to over SOyearsold. So... whetheryour talent has 
improved with age or your testing your skis for the first 
time, we invite you to Busch Gardens Auditions 1997.
Saturday 
November 16th 
2:30pm to 0:30pm 
Park Point College
Lawrence Hall 
Studio 101 
201 Wood Street 
Pittsburgh, PA 
For more information call:
1-800-253-3302
or write to: Auditions c/o 
Busch Gardens Entertainment 
One Busch Gardens Blvd. 
Williamsburg, VA 23187-8785.
An equal opportunity employer.
PLOT, from page 11
porter, who wished to remain 
anonymous, stated that 
Steinbrenner may have paid the 
umpiring crew approximately 
$1 million so they would favor 
the Yankees throughout the 
series. Many of the umpires’ 
calls were disputed by fans and 
players alike.
• In Game 4, Umpire Tim 
Welke didn’t move out of the 
way while Braves outfielder 
Jermaine Dye, attempting to 
catch a fly ball, ran into hinii 
Welke then ejected Dye from 
the game for not apologizing.
• In Game 6, Braves out­
fielder Marquis Grissom was 
called out trying to advance tp 
second base. The replay clearly, 
showed he was safe and tha^ ¦ 
umpire Terry Tata had missed 
a very easy call. uiib
Before that play, Tata had 
not missed a call in his en­
tire career.
Several suspicious plays oc­
curred throughout the Worjft 
Series which make me wondej;, 
if the Series fixed. von
• Marquis Grissom, winner, 
of four consecutive Gold Glove 
awards, dropped a fly ball thatù 
cost his team Game 5.
Post-season superstar 
Mark Lemke, who had not yet: 
been retired with runners ori? 
base all series long, came to bat 
in the top of the ninth of Game
6 with two outs, runners on 
first and second, and his teamj 
down by only one run. Hé' 
popped out to end the game. -"
• Tom Glavine, John Smoltz 
and Greg Maddux, owners of 
the previous six Cy Young" > 
Awards and gods of the pitch-' 
ing mound, lost.
• In the Braves clubhouse 
immediately after the World 
Series ended, when a reporter 
asked relief pitcher Mark0! 
Wohlers about his poor perfor­
mance, Wohlers replied: “The 
series was fixed. We threw the 
Series.”
Honestly, congratulations 
the Yankees for a season aiu}/* 
series well played. Even if theyd 
did steal the victory from the» 
better team.
Matt Cuccaro will next set up 
a wire tap on the phones of thè I 
two teams’s mascots, and pro¦ . 
ceed to investigate if radioac-, 
tive cheese is somehow involved.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 4 November 1996lì
ADMINISTRATION
Intramural Director — Mike 
Mastroianni x8-2214; Assistant Intra­
mural Director — Mike Grzywinski x8- 
2938; IM Secretary — Michelle Matta 
x8-2053; IM President — Matt Will­
iams 621-8987; IM Women's Presi­
dent — Pia Soriano 681-1031
IMPORTANT DATES
November 12 — IM board meeting at 
11:45 am in the gym conference room.
TENNIS
The finals were held this past Mon­
day. The winners were:
Majors — Edbergs 
Intermediate — The Incompetents 
Minors — Sig Ep
¡¦Gongatulations to all the winners 
and thanks to all who participated.
WATER POLO
The games will be played on Tues­
day, Wednesday, and Thursday nights 
from 9-llpm. Teams are reminded 
to read the rule changes. Teams are 
now five players including the goal­
ies; Check with office for make-up 
schedule. Playoffs are scheduled to 
begin on Wednesday, November 13 
or Thursday, November 14. Teams 
should check with the IM Office for 
playoff times after the regular sea­
son has concluded.
SOCCER
Games are underway in between rain­
drops. They will continue to take place 
Monday through Thursday evenings as 
well as Sunday afternoons. Teams are 
reminded that decisions about rain- 
outs will be made at the fields. There 
are a record number of teams (96) this 
year.
FOOSBALL
The season has begun, and teams 
e reminded to report scores to the 
office. Any results not reported will be 
(considered double forfeits.
BOWLING
Matches began last week at the 
Pittsburgh Athletics Association on Fifth 
Avenue in Oakland. Matches will be 
bowled on Sundays through the first 
week of December. Please report all 
scores to the office no later than Tues- 
ay at noon.
SIX-PERSON VOLLEYBALL
Play is underway in the University 
enter gym and will continue until 
Thursday. Playoffs will begin on Mon- 
or Tuesday of next week. Teams 
are reminded to check with the IM 
Office for the playoff schedule on 
Friday at noon.
RACQUETBALL, DARTS, 
AND TABLE TENNIS
Schedules are out and available in 
the IM office. Please play as scheduled 
and report scores to the IM office.
Submitted by 
MIKE GRZYWINSKI
ALL SPORTS UPDATE
MEN
1. Beta —750 
,2. ThetaXi —500
3..SAE —483
4. Gang Greene — 375 
v5.‘ Todd’s Team — 300
Edbergs — 300
WOMEN
1. Tartan Hoopers — 575 
Flying O’s — 300
¡3. ISA — 150
SOCCER RANKINGS
Saipest
il- Real Mellon
2. GSIA
¡3. FC Schlitz
/fod0sa04fid0
1. PKT Brazil 
2' Beta Pele
¡3. PiKAA
Kentucky F. C.
5. Sig Ep
afoest 
i. ti0
2- Watson’s Wannabes 
'3- Little India 
4- Chani’s Boys 
Buttersville Bombers
Bitter fan suspects Series fix
The Hot Comer
by Matt Cuccaro
I hate this 
time of year. 
There is no more 
warm weather, 
no more day­
light, and no 
more time for 
anything but 
work. Worst of
... ........................ all, there is no
more baseball.
For the next five months there will be no 
box scores, no broken records, no thrilling 
victories, and no inspiring comeback at­
tempts. There will be no Red Sox games.
All that is good about baseball is gone.
The sport will not completely dis­
appear, though. Throughout the 
off-season, players and owners 
will constantly bicker 
over labor and financial 
issues. Ballplayers (un­
der the euphemism 
“free agents”) turn into 
cash-crazed merce­
naries who are only 
interested in increas­
ing their salaries, 
while owners, to be 
blunt, become really, 
really stupid (unless you be­
lieve ’ that rarely-used 
benchwarmers and relief 
pitchers deserve the mil­
lions of dollars they get).
This fall, however, 
gives us a new reason to 
complain — the New York Yankees are the world 
champions. Just the mention of those words angers 
me. I would rather give up cheese than read or hear 
about the Bronx Bombers winning the World Series.
Simona Lo/Tartan
They didn’t even deserve to win. The Atlanta 
Braves were clearly the best team in baseball 
this season. I was certain (and still am) that they 
could not lose a seven game series unless it was 
on purpose.
So ever since the series finale, I have been 
searching for clues that would suggest that the 
Braves threw the series. Below I have listed only. 
some of the evidence which fuels my belief that 
the 1996 World Series was fixed.
Owners George Steinbrenner of the New York 
Yankees and Ted Turner of the Atlanta 
Braves contacted each other 
quite often before and dur­
ing. the World Series. I 
think that these men 
could possibly be the 
principal organizers 
of “The Fix of ’96.”
• Recently, ru­
mors have surfaced that since the 
start of the playoffs (and even dur­
ing the World Series) George 
Steinbrenner has been selling 
team stock in order to help pay 
for a new stadium or possibly 
refurbish the current Yankee 
’ ~ Stadium. One of the most 
frequent purchasers of the 
stock — Ted Turner.
You may have heard about the 
recent merger between the Time- 
Warner Company and Turner En­
terprises. Time-Warner is one of the 
largest holders of New York Yankee 
franchise stock.
Art Co-Editor . Reggie Jackson, special assistant 
to the Yankee ballclub and longtime adversary of 
Steinbrenner, caused some commotion in the 
Yankee clubhouse during the series. One re- 
Please see PLOT, page 10
Yankees beat 
Braves as team
World Series Recap
by Chris Cannon
What has 25 heads, 50 legs, 
and about a gazillion pinstripes? 
That’s easy, the New York Yan­
kees frolicking over their World 
Series victory. In one muddled 
mass of humanity Saturday 
night, the Yankees celebrated the 
same way they won: as a team.
While Atlanta stormed the Big 
Apple with stars, they later lost when 
their heroes couldn’t pull it out.
The Braves had the phenom in 
game one and what everybody 
calls the best right-handed 
pitcher you’ve ever seen in game 
two. Andruw Jones broke Mickey 
Mantle’s record when he became 
the youngest player to hit a home 
run in game one. Four-time con­
secutive Cy Young winner Greg 
Maddux showed he could be im­
mortal in the post-season too, by 
mowing down Yankee batters in 
game two. But Atlanta also had 
scapegoat pitching in games three 
and four, errors by a four-time
Golden Glove winner in game five, 
and gimpy pinch hitting through­
out the series and definitely in 
the finale.
How did New York sweep four 
games from the defending WbrlcI 
Champions? How did the Yan­
kees do it? Like a team. Look rto 
further than the series clincher. 
Solid pitching from their starter 
Key, who left in the sixth, spot 
showings by the bullpen (David 
Weathers and Graeme Lloyd re­
corded one out each), Mariano 
Riveria provided his usual spec-’ 
tacular middle relief and Johii: 
.Wetteland brought it home.
At the. plate it wasn’t the free' 
agent stars (Darryl Strawberry, 
Cecil Fielder, Wade Boggs) from, 
yester-year that took all the glory,' 
but a full Yankee effort that' 
brought the title home. It was 
young guns Derek Jeter and Bernie; 
Williams who delivered the hits.'
Nowhere was the contrast be­
tween the Yankees and Braves ' 
more evident than in the closer 
position. Series MVP Wetteland ' 
was on his game and Atlanta’s; 
Mark Wohlers just wasn’t. The ’ 
Yankee right-hander could only " 
finish what his teammates started''
Wetteland, the first closer t.o' 
be named MVP and also the 
first to save four games in 'a;
Please see TEAM, page 9 ‘
Great 
Weekend Escapes
for as low as $109
from MasterCard 
and United Airlines!
Take Off For The Weekend With United Airlines And Return Monday Or Tliesday To Get Substantial Savings When You Use Your MasterCard® Card.
Weekender Zone Fare CertificatePromo Code: AV0096 
Ticket Designator: AV0096 
Travel Complete: May 15,1997
Roundtrip Rates
Within Zone A or BS129
Between Zone A & Zone BS189
Between Zone A & Zone C$269
Between Zone B & Zone CS189
Within Zone C$109
Not valid for travel to/from IL/CO/AK/HI.
Use Your MasterCard® Card For Great Savings On United Airlines.
To make reservations, call United at 1-800-241-6522 
or your travel professional.
Please reference Weekender Zone Fare Certificate AV0096.
| To enjoy these low Weekender Zone Fares - plus earn Mileage Plus®
i « credit on your trip - just call your travel professional or United lo reserveW your flight and redeem your certificate,do To receive these savings, use your MasterCard® card to purchase an
np E-Ticket* between September 1.1996 and December 31,1996 for travel£ between September 15,1996 and May 15,1997. Outbound travel must1 originate on flights departing on Saturday. Return travel good on flights£ returning on Monday (An exception for travel between Zones A and C,o return travel may take place on Tuesday),
p Zone Definitions:£ Zone A - AL, AR, CT, DC, DE, FL, GA, IA, IN, KY, LA, MA, MD, ME,o Ml, MN, M0. MS, NC, NH, NJ, NY, OH. PA, Rl, SC. TN, VA, VT, Wl, WV£ Zone B - ID, KS, MT, ND, NE, NM, OK. SD, TX, UT, WY0 Zone C - AZ, CA, NV, OR, WANot valid for travel to/lrom IL/CO/AK/HI.
| Terms and Conditions:Good for roundtrip travel.1 Promo Code: AV0096
Carrier: United Airlines/Shuttle by United/United Express only.Routing: Roundtrip or Open Jaw within the 48 contiguous United States, excluding travel to/from IL/CO.Travel Dates: September 15,1996 through May 15,1997.TRAVEL MUST BE COMPLETED BY MIDNIGHT, May 15.1997.Ticket Dates: September 1.1996 through December 31,1996.No Travel: 1996: Nov. 23-26, Nov. 30-Dec. 3, Dec. 21-24.1997: Mar. 22-25, Mar. 29-Apr. 1; Apr. 5-8,12-15.(Or blackouts restricted on the fare purchased, whichever is more restrictive.) Booking: Must be confirmed roundtrip in V class; no open segments permitted. Advance Purchase: Within 24 hours of making the reservations at least 14 days prior to departure.Minimum/Maximum Stay: Saturday night slay required.Mileage Plus Accrual: YesTicketing: E-Ticketing only (electronic ticketing service).Taxes/Service Charges: All fees, taxes and surcharges, including passenger facility charges, are the responsibility of the user and must be paid at ticketing. Certificate Restrictions: Accept original certificate only. Non-extendible, non-combinable with any/other coupon, certificate, discount, bonus upgrade, Mileage Plus award, promotional offers or tickets for group travel. Not replaceable if lost or stolen. Protection lor flight irregularities will be on United/Shuttle by United/United Express flights only. Discount applies lo new purchases only. Seals are capacity controlled and must be available in the required booking inventory at the lime reservations are confirmed. Coupon has no cash or refund value and is void il altered or duplicated. Coupon may
not be sold, bartered or purchased.Ticketing Restrictions: Non-refundable. Nontransferable after ticketing. Changes in origin/destination not permitted. Travel dates MAY BE revalidated for $50.00 fee.
©1996 MastaCard In
Agency Ticketing Instructions:
See S*PMA/AV0096 for detailed information 
Treat as Type ‘A’ discount coupon 
Fare Basis Code: VE14NWKD
VE14NWKV for travel between zones A & C 
Use Ticket Designator: AV0096 
Endorsement Boxes: VALID UAL ONLY/Non-Ref/No Itin 
Changes
UAL-ATO/CTO Ticketing Instructions: see S*PMQ/AV0096
8 016 5003 000021 7
¦ofd04 
2fsLfo0t
6 MasterCard International Incorporated
iOC

---------------------------------------------------

V4IPdV
The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Men’s soccer shuts out NYU
Volume 91, Issue 9
By NATHAN STEINWALD
Tartan Staffwriter
On October 27, the men’s soc­
cer team passed another test in 
its quest for a post-season bid 
with a 2-0 victory over confer­
ence opponent NYU. The victory
alties in the first half made it 
difficult for either team to estab­
lish a rhythm. With the game 
lurching forward, neither team 
took control and much of the first 
half was devoted to battling for 
control of the midfield.
Towards the middle of the first
Tartan Rie Photo
Tartan sophomore Harry Ulrich crushes the ball toward the goalie in 
Gesling Stadium last week.
came at the heels of a tie against 
top-ranked Emory and was the 
second to last game of the season 
for the Tartans. This, coupled with 
their borderline position in hoping 
for an invitation to a tournament, 
made the game vital to them.
The first half saw a number of 
opportunities for the Tartans, but 
was occasioned by the referee’s 
whistle even more. In the first 
half, a number of calls were made 
due to physical play, although at 
times it seemed as though the 
referee had just made a habit of 
blowing his whistle, and that 
there wasn’t actually a foul which 
warranted it. The number of pen-
half, NYU seemed to step up their 
attack and gain a measure of con­
trol of the midfield. However, the 
strong defense of the Tartans 
helped prevent any serious threat 
of a goal, and when the ball did 
enter the penalty area, freshman 
goalie Ben Kartzman was able to 
clear the ball out of harm’s way. 
With 10 minutes left, CMU 
turned the game around and 
started to generate offensive pres­
sure of its own. At nine minutes 
on the clock, junior Jason Buelow 
received a pass up the right wing 
with only one defender back for 
NYU. He pushed the ball up, but 
Was fouled from behind by a trail­
ing NYU player. The fact that 
Buelow was tripped from behind 
when he was in a position to po­
tentially score resulted in a yel­
low card for the guilty NYU 
player.
CMU pushed on, but the physi­
cal play continued from NYU as 
they failed to realize that penal­
ties were made to be punishment. 
Now with only eight minutes left 
in the half, the Tartans reminded 
them. Freshman back David 
Huryk took a free kick from the 
middle of the field, and gave se­
nior team captain Suraj Naik a 
pass down the left wing. Naik 
pushed the ball upfield a little, 
and then sent a quick pass across 
the field to sophomore Alex 
Benetti, who was waiting 20 
yards out and a little to the right 
of the NYU goal. The NYU de­
fense suffered another memory 
lapse, as all of the players in 
Benetti’s immediate vicinity col­
lapsed upon him.
As NYU failed to realize that 
there were 11 CMU players, not 
just one, sophomore forward 
Harry Ulrich was left open in 
front of the goal. Benetti saw him 
and gave him the ball. All alone 
and with nothing to do but shoot 
the ball, Ulrich put it by the NYU 
keeper and into the goal with ease.
The team took the tenuous 1-0 
lead it earned into the second 
half, where they .came out strong 
in an attempt to build a wider gap 
between them and NYU, A num- 
, ber of chances Were created, as 
the team pushed forward into the 
NYU area.
Eight minutes into play, there 
seemed to be a handball by an 
NYU player in the penalty area. 
However no call was forthcoming 
from the referee and play contin­
ued. Less than 30 seconds later,
Jason Buelow was taken down on 
the right sideline, again by NYU 
defenders. This time NYU re­
ceived two yellow cards, one for 
the foul, and one for whining about 
it (whining is officially referred to 
as dissent). CMU took the free 
kick deep within NYU territory. 
Ulrich charged into the penalty 
area after the kick, only to miss 
the ball, and run into the post. 
The post was determined to be a 
little shaken up, but decided to 
finish the game anyway.
For the rest of the half, the 
team played well. On defense, 
they showed determination, while 
on offense they showed creativity 
and a familiarity with each other 
that was conducive to good pass­
ing and goal-scoring opportuni­
ties. However, NYU held off the 
Tartan attack, and with 15 min­
utes left, started their counterat­
tack. The best opportunity NYU 
would earn was a free kick out­
side of the penalty area that hit 
the post. However, as the ball 
rebounded back into play, so did 
CMU.- Realizing that a victory 
was what was needed and not 
another tie, the offense started 
another push to score.
A throw-in was earned 3.0 yards 
from the NYU goal. Buelow re­
ceived the ball down the sideline, 
and sent a crdssing pass into the 
box. Benetti made a well-timed 
run, and headed the ball at the 
goal. The NYU keeper got his 
hands on the ball, but could not 
stop it from going into the net. 
With a two-goal lead, CMU 
cruised to a much-needed win.
The victory gives CMU a chance 
at a playoff berth. To help further 
the cause, the team also needed a 
win in their last game of the sea­
son against Washington Univer­
sity at home on this past Sunday.
Top players place in national tourney
By MASHA KOVARSKY
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The fall season ended successfully for 
the women’s tennis team. They exhibited 
some strong performances, and had a few 
interesting opponents. Tartan women dis­
played great talent, placing high in both 
the singles and doubles in this season’s 
last event, the National Rolex Tennis 
Championships.
On October 24-27, sophomore Keri Mills 
and freshman Christina Sun, the team’s 
top singles and doubles players, competed 
in the National Rolex in Memphis, Ten­
nessee. Colleges from all over the country 
bring their best players to qualify for this 
tournament, and participation in the tour­
nament already means you are one of the 
best tennis players in the country.
Both Mills and Sun were very excited to 
play at the National Rolex. They enjoyed 
the Regional tournament, and felt ready 
to take on some difficult competition. Mills 
defeated Jamie Levine of Skidmore Col­
lege (6-4, 2-6, 6-3) in the semifinals, and 
finished runner-up for the second year in 
a row. Mills faced a number of different 
players this year, and she said that she
felt more prepared this year and she hopes 
to do even better in the future.
Mills and Sun finished fourth in the 
doubles tourney at the Rolex. Both agree 
that they did very well for a first time 
playing together. They also said they are 
looking forward to participating in more 
National competitions.
Although there is always room for im­
provement, the women say they carried a 
lot from the tournament. Sun said, “It is 
really great experience playing with Keri 
in doubles, because she is such a good 
doubles player and has a lot of experience 
and strategy that I can learn from and 
improve on.”
Considering Sun had never played 
doubles before she came to CMU, and also 
that they played some challenging teams, 
the National Rolex was a success.
“I think [the season] was pretty good, 
there were some matches that we could 
have won,” said Sun. “But I think that the 
team is well motivated and satisfied with 
the results.” She said that she is very 
happy with the season.
One of her teammates, sophomore Jillian 
Watkins, wraps up the season with two 
words: short and tough. “The shortness of
the season helped the team focus on key 
matches, and we had some good wins,” said 
Watkins.
The women needed some challenging 
matches to prepare them for the national 
tournaments and the spring season will cer­
tainly give them that. Their first match will 
be on March 1 at Oberlin College. The team 
is excited because they will have a chance to 
play some new and tougher teams in the 
spring. In March, they will be going to Emory 
in Atlanta for the UAA competition, and in 
April they will travel to Hilton Head, South 
Carolina.
“I’m very excited about, going.down there 
and playing some teams from other parts of 
the country,” said Sun. “I think we can 
improve during the spring season with more 
experience and a new chance to be even 
more successful than this season.”
The team hopes to play better in both 
singles and doubles. Mills, as team captain, 
sees there is room for improvement. She 
also said that there could be additions to the 
team, because there is a chance for a trans­
fer student to join the team as well as some 
recruits. In general, Mills said the team 
played well this season, and anticipates the 
beginning of the spring semester.
Volleyball finishes season at UAA tournament
By JASON SCHARFMAN
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Topped off by the hard work of 
Tawnya Sunderland and the powerful 
defense of Stephanie Postal, the Tar­
tan volleyball team crushed Chatham 
3-1 on Thursday, October 17. Despite 
a rally in the second game, the Tar­
tans took control in the third game to 
clinch the victory.
OMU continued their victorious run 
oh October 19, in a tournament which 
also featured Alfred University, Wash­
ington & Jefferson College and Penn 
State. Defeating Alfred 3-0, the Tar­
tans then went on to face the tougher 
Penn State.
, In a last-minute victory, Penn State 
beat the Tartans 3-2. CMU then went 
on to lose to W&J 3-1.
Despite their two losses in the round 
robin tournament, the Tartans went 
;on to victory in the UAA champion­
ships. In spite of losing on day one to 
Chicago 3-1 and then losing to Emory
3-0, the Tartans then turned it around 
on day two of the tournament. 
Sunderland made several good dives 
in order to save the ball from going out 
of bounds.
On one such play, she bruised her 
leg so bad that it started bleeding. 
Sunderland was forced to leave the 
game, only to return to spur the team 
on and help them to not give up.
Led by several strategically placed 
spikes by Beth Sekowski and a num­
ber of powerful serves by Postal, the 
Tartans went on to destroy NYU 3-0. 
After this decisive victory, CMU went 
on to crush Brandeis 3-0, and gain 
entrance into the fifth-place match.
In a difficult match, the Tartans lost 
to Rochester 3-1, to finish in sixth 
place for the tournament.
With a final record of 11-21 for the 
year, the Tartans are showing a defi­
nite improvement under the leader­
ship of their new coach Julie Webb, 
and are looking to an even better record 
next season.
4 November 199ß
Tartans swat 
Yellowjackets
By DAWN PAPUGA
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
The Tartans are on a huge 
winning streak, going into the 
game against the University of 
Rochester with a 6-2 record, 
and leaving the Yellowjackets 
feeling as though they had been 
hit by a bus. The final score was 
42-6, with another Tartan win.
At first glance, this past Sat­
urday seemed almost like an 
instant replay of the game 
against Chicago — the similar 
score and the same winning 
team: The Tartan’s overall time 
of possession was incredible. 
Statistics show that the time of 
possession is critical for a win. 
Not only TOP, but also accu­
racy, yardage and defense are 
all crucial for à win. Although 
it always helps when your op­
ponents come into the game 
with a 0-6 record.
The game’s first quarter was 
another very high scoring event, 
with three touchdowns, an ex­
tra point and a two-point con­
version. The first touchdown of 
the game was scored by senior 
quarterback Dave Soltysik on 
a quarterback-sneak after a 
fumble recovery on the opening 
kick-off by junior Adam 
Kenney. Freshman kicker Pat 
. O’Malley made thé extra point, 
putting the Tartans ahead 7-0.
Not too much later in the 
first quarter, freshman Mike 
Campie had a 12-yard touch­
down run, but O’Malley missed 
the extra point, making the 
score 13-0.
On the next drive, the de­
fense was incredible and ended 
the drive when junior Josh 
Stauffer made an impressive 
diving catch for the intercep­
tion, putting the Tartans in
prime scoring position again. 
The Tartans had a three-play 
and 34-yard scoring drive for 
another touchdown by the 
freshman Campie. The team 
opted for the two-point conver­
sion to senior Buck Neel and 
made the score 21-0.
The second quarter wasn’t 
without scores either. A fumble 
recovery by senior tight end T. J. 
Sharpe set up the touchdown by 
Neel to make the score 28-0.
After halftime, the Tartan’s 
offense slowed down a bit, scor­
ing only a touchdown per quar­
ter. Campie had a 73-yard touch­
down run in the third quarter 
and the extra point made the 
score 35-0. Somehow the 
Yellowjackets managed to keep 
the Tartans from completely 
shutting them out. They had a 
solo touchdown drive the entire 
game, and missed the extra 
point, making their point total 
six. The Tartan defense was play­
ing extremely well, keeping the 
Yellowjacket scoring to a mini­
mum, and forcing a number of 
fumbles and interceptions.
The fourth quarter brought 
no more Rochester scoring, but 
it did bring Tartan points. 
Freshman Mike Monsilovich 
had a touchdown late in the 
quarter, and sophomore Chris 
Bodmer made the extra point a 
game ending 42-6.
The win over Rochester has 
secured at least a part of the 
UAA title for CMU, making it 
their sixth in the past seven 
seasons. Not only the title was 
on the line, but the Tartans 
also .clinched their 22nd con­
secutive winning season. CMU 
has not had a losing season 
since the 1974 3-5 season.
The Tartans play away at 
Muhlenberg on November 9.
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Managing Editor 
Juniors Adam Kenney and Trent Morrow stuff a Yellowjacket 
rusher. The defense allowed only six points in Saturday’s game.
Women’s soccer team defeats Bethany, NYU
Gustavo Sganzerla/Tartan Photographer
The women’s volleyball team ended the season with a 
final record of 11-21.
By ELLEN BELDNER
Tartan Staffwriter
After a 17-game season, the 
CMU women’s soccer team has 
ended up with an overall season 
record of 9-7-1 and a University 
Atheletics Association record of 
1-5-1.
With three of its seven UAA 
games in the past two weeks — 
against Emory University, New 
York University, and Washing­
ton University — the team 
brought its UAA record from 0- 
3-1 to its final 1-5-1 record.
After a strong 6-0 win against 
Bethany College on October 22, 
the Tartans went into the week 
faced with games against Emory 
and NYU. CMU defeated NYU 
1-0, with junior forward Kim
Umeda scoring for the Tartans 
and sophomore goalkeeper 
Lindsay Smith blocking NYU's 
shots. Umeda, who has been a, 
star offensive force on the team, 
all season, also scored three of 
the team’s six goals aga 
Bethany.
But the team’s two wins 
against NYU and Bethany were 
countered by losses to Emory 
on October 27 and to Washing­
ton on November 3. The Tar­
tans lost both UAA games l-G
CMU nearly lost 2-0 at the 
Washington game. Washingt011 
scored a goal with seven min­
utes left in the game, but it wa> 
discounted because one o* 
Washington’s players wa- 
offsides when the goal was 
made.

---------------------------------------------------

T XT TT1 T rSrannnratiannra
ÆLÆ M, T Al 1i
Volume 91, Issue 9The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania4 November 1996
VT7-iyT/ tiBMA T1 /EeteT7B2 ti/17tMi/
By SUSAN WATSON
Tartan Staffwriter
“I’m not aware of religious diver­
sity on this campus,“ said “Nancy,” 
junior civil engineering major who 
wished to remain anonymous. “But 
maybe I’m not aware of it. It just 
seems that most organizations on 
campus are Christian.”
Nancy is Buddhist. She believes 
her religious values affect her out­
look on life. She said, “Religion has 
always been an integral part of my 
lifestyle. I don’t know what it would 
be like without it. My parents raised 
me this way. I don’t pray everyday 
even though I should. My friends 
here go to church, but there aren’t 
any temples here. I just don’t do 
that. My religion is more how I see 
the world. I have a Buddhist percep­
tion when I look at things.”
Despite Nancy’s individual take 
on religion, other students feel they 
can gain a great deal from on and off 
campus religious groups. Keith 
Stitely, a senior physics major and 
president of the Christian Student 
Fellowship feels the most important 
element he has gotten out of the 
organization in his four years is true 
friendship. “As far as the group goes, 
the friendships I have created and 
maintained are so important to me,” 
he said. “These people have helped 
me mature. Everybody sticks to­
gether. They can help you and never 
expect anything in return. It’s true 
friendship.”
Though the organization is a so­
cial outlet for its members, its pri­
mary focus is to create awareness 
about Christianity. The group holds 
meetings every Friday night in conjunction with 
j University of Pittsburgh. Meetings take place in the 
Cathedral of Learning and begin at 7:30 pm. Sing­
ing, teaching, and discussion are incorporated into 
each weekly gathering, followed by a social activity 
such as bowling, talent shows, movie going, or 
dancing. Stitely feels the meetings focus on the 
concerns and lifestyles of the average student. He 
said, “Most of the time we discuss topics relevant to 
college students and how the Bible applies to them. 
A past discussion dealt with making good decisions 
in college before college gets hold of you. At the same 
time, we learn about different philosophies of life. 
We also learn about why other religions appeal to 
people.”
Sam Bransvold, the Campus Minister of the Chris­
tian Student Fellowship, feels the group meetings 
create personal awareness within students. He said,
“I think we help people discover what they believe 
about God, and how they can live this belief out.”
In addition to its weekly meetings, The Christian 
Student Fellowship also holds periodic Bible stud­
ies known as Growth Groups. Members participate 
in a Tutoring Youth Program in which they educate 
students at Schenley High School. The group also 
goes on retreats throughout the year. Approximately 
70 CMU students actively participate in the group.
While this religious group as well as others pro­
vide many ways for students to incorporate religion 
into their lives, some students choose to be religious 
without the support of an organization.
Wendy Newman, a junior policy and manage­
ment student is aware of HUIel, a local Jewish 
organization that has active CMU members, but 
feels the group is not for her. She said, “I think Hillel 
provides something for many people, but I don’t feel
Simona Lo/Tartan Art Co-editor
I need to be a part of it. For me, everything I do is 
Jewish. It’s part of my values. It’s the way I was 
brought up. I don’t think that being in a Jewish 
group here will make me feel more Jewish.”
This off-campus Jewish organization provides 
cultural, historical, and social programming deal­
ing with the religion. It holds weekly informal 
Friday night dinners and has open forum meetings 
throughout the semester.
Another on-campus religious group is the Agape 
Campus Ministry, previously known as the Korean 
Christian Fellowship. Consisting of approximately 
50 students, this organizationhas large group meet­
ings each Friday night at 7 pm in Porter Hall. In 
addition to this weekly meeting, smaller group 
meetings are held periodically. Sam Chon, a junior 
SIA major and administrative assistant of the orga­
nization feels the small group gatherings give mem­
bers a chance to get to know each other 
on an informal and more personal leveL 
“The small groups are more like ses­
sions where you can talk openly with 
each other,” he said. “The people in 
each group tend to be in the same 
grade. It’s hard to get to know so many 
people in the large meetings. Here, 
you get to share problems and give 
encouragement. ”
The group appealed to Chon because 
of the support and friendship it pro­
vides. He said, “When I was freshman 
there were a lot of older people in this, 
organization who cared about me. I 
felt they were my brothers. This makes 
me feel like an older brother to the 
people coming in. As I help them, I 
grow closer to God.”
Chon feels the group helps students 
relate Christian values to their every­
day lives. He said, “It teaches you how 
to deal with the stress of being a stu­
dent while leading a Christian life. It 
also lets you know how to be a Chris­
tian and not be ashamed of it. In addi­
tion, it shows you how to share openly 
about Jesus, and what he stands for. 
The thing is that you share it. You 
don’t condemn others, you just share 
what you know.”
Being an active member of Agape 
Campus Ministry has had a profound 
affect on Chon’s life. “This organiza­
tion gives me the peace of knowing 
who I am as a child of God. It lets me. 
have a clear vision of what he wants 
me to do while I’m in college and out of 
college.”
In addition to its on-campus ac­
tivities, the organization takes one 
retreat each semester. It will also be 
hosting an evangelistic drama in con­
junction with other campus groups. 
Despite the religious groups that currently ex­
ist on and off campus, some students feel that 
CMU is in need of more of these organizations.
Vineet Chander, a freshman professional writ-; 
ing major said, “I do think there should be more 
religious groups, and the ones that already exist 
should be facilitated more. They need to be en­
couraged. At this school, there’s such a high em­
phasis on rational thinking. It’s good to balance 
that out with spiritual things. A school like CMU 
can only benefit from religious groups.”
Chander, who is a practicing Hare Krishna 
worships in the privacy of his own home due to the 
lack of resources. He said, “There’s not a temple 
around here so I have informal gatherings in my 
own apartment. My religion is a daily ongoing 
practice. I pray once in the morning and once in 
the day everyday.”
aith Council provides religious venues for students
3HARMILA 
VTASUBBAN
an Features Editor
Stained glass windows and pews 
ofhand-carved wooden chairs line 
the inside of the Wright- Rogal 
chapel, a small space designated 
for religious purposes within the 
University Center.
“When the chapel was being 
planned, we [the Carnegie Mel­
lon Interfaith Council] wanted a 
place that people could worship 
in any manner they chose,” said 
Dawn Check, an organization 
member of the Interfaith Council 
(1C), n campus liaison between 
various religious organizations 
nnd the campus. “They could pray, 
cry, meditate —- whatever they 
wanted to do.”
"Spirituality is a deeply personal 
issue and it is something that 
should be honored... The chapel is 
meant to represent that aspect of 
the campus,” said Check.
While students are welcome 
make use of the non-denomina­
tion chapel, they n-.ust first re­
serve it through Student Activi­
ties.
“This is intended to secure pri­
vacy,” said Check. “Religion is an 
intimate part of your life — we 
want to protect the sanctity of that 
experience.”
In addition to a main prayer
room and a sachristy, the chapel 
holds office space for the members of 
the IC.
“The Roman Catholic Oratory uses 
the chapel everyday for mass and the 
United Campus Ministry uses it on 
Thursday for a program called Mid­
direction for students who are trying 
to find out about different religious 
organizations on campus,” said 
Check. “Right now there is a cult 
invading the campus, called the 
Greater Pittsburgh Church of Christ.
This organization is trying to get
zation in that it is collective of mem­
ber organizations — some student- 
run — rather than a student repre­
sented group.
By offering resources such as a re­
ligious calendar to faculty staff, the 
IC aims to bridge religious differ- 
night Manna,” she said. “I think it's ences among community members students, especially vulnerable stu- 
a resource ... but not enough stu- said Check. “Not only does the calen- dents, to give money and spend so 
dents realize it is 
there for their use.”
Muslim students 
use the chapel for 
prayer on a- weekly 
basis as well.
According to Anne 
Witchner, assistant 
dean of Student Af­
fairs and director of 
Student Activities 
there has always 
been a chapel on 
campus — in Skibo
“Spirituality is a deeply personal issue ...
is meant to represent that as- 
campus.”
heck, organization member of the 
Interfaith Council
much time 
there that they 
can’t keep up 
with their stud­
ies.”
Check said 
that the IC ex­
ists to protect 
students for 
such groups. In 
order to become 
a part of the IC, 
a religious 
group must
as well as the Naval Building. dar have the dates of religious events, show adequate credentials, which dif-
“In the past, students have been it has descriptions as well,” she said, fer from group to group due to cultural 
ted in the chapel,” said Witch- '‘The calendar might explain what reasons said Check.
Rosh Hashanah is and why a student “It’s important to check out these
ile the space is meant for all would miss class to observe it.” groups before joining them,” said Check, 
denominations to use, the same or- Consisting of a number of major “I offer this advice to newcomers to 
ganizations tend to reserve the room religious organizations on campus United Campus Ministry [with which 
each week. from Hillel and the Islamic Center to she is affiliated] as well.”
“It’s going to take a while for stu- the United Campus Ministry, the IC “We want to keep proselytizing off 
dents to realize that its there,” said exists to provide an outlet of reli- campus — there’s a difference between 
Check. gious life to the entire campus — evangelizing and manipulative meth-
This stands the same for student students, faculty, staff and adminis- ods of getting people to accept your 
awareness of the Interfaith Council tration. belief systems,” said Check,
itself, according to Check. This might “I think the most important reason “The IC signed an agreement with 
stem from the nature of the organi- for the IC on campus is to provide the University to use integrity and care
when advising students,” she added.
While the Interfaith Council acts 
as a major convening point for reli­
gious concerns on campus some ma­
jor religions are not represented 
within the group, such as any Hindu 
or Buddhist organizations. Check 
said both have been asked to join, 
but have refused.
Check said tha the IC is a useful 
resource for students who wish to 
explore differnt religious venues in 
the area.
“If the want to find out about a 
certain group we try to help them 
meet that goal,” she said.
The IC also put out an CMU Inter­
faith Council Brochure to inform stu­
dent of the different faiths on cam­
pus and how to get involved 
withthem.
During Orentation, the IC provides 
training for OC’s and offers program­
ming for first-year students. This 
year they held an ice cream social to 
introduce their organization incom­
ing students.
“Many OC’s are asked questions 
such as ‘where can I get a kosher 
meal?’ It’s important that they know 
the answers,” said Check.
The IC also holds a baccalaureate 
service during graduation.
“Whether your in an organized re­
ligion or your own brand of spiritu­
ality, everyone has a spiritual side 
that is a part of who they are and 
their development,” said Check.

---------------------------------------------------

L2The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 4 November 1996
Media’s perception of pregnancy warps experiences of women
CRACKING THE MYTH
by Christy Hipchen
* Strolling through the aisles of the 
video store or flipping through the 
channels during television’s 
primetime gives a person the impres­
sion that pregnancy is really funny. I 
Jnean really funny. The show Step by 
jStep was particularly guilty of this.
Movies like Nine Months and Fa­
ther of the Bride II promise bundles of 
laughs as their characters deal with 
pregnancies and labors comprised of 
one wacky mishap after another.
* Most sitcoms have a pregnant char­
acter at least once during their televi­
sion run, and her purpose is to keep 
everyone chuckling with her mood 
pwings, enslavement of her husband 
to constantly run to the store to sat­
isfy her obscure food cravings, and 
general hysteria.
\ Very rarely is a pregnant woman 
0ver presented in a realistic or natu­
ral light. Most people would be ap­
palled if someone declared that 
pregnancy was some sort of 
bizarre mutation, but that is 
how movies and television 
shows portray it. The fact that 
pregnancy is natural gets lost 
in all its potential humor 
value, and pregnant women 
are shown as hysterical, crazed 
by their cravings for peanut 
butter and pickles.
While it is true that some 
hormone changes during preg­
nancy can make a woman 
slightly more moody or cause 
cravings, it is not realistic to 
have this purely comedic view 
of pregnancy.
Pregnant women do impor­
tant jobs inside and outside of 
the home, and warped percep­
tions deny them respect. And for 
many women, pregnancy is any­
thing but a barrel of laughs — it 
costs them their jobs.
Movies and television are not 
the only arenas that fail to take 
pregnant women seriously. Preg­
nancy discrimination runs ram­
pant in America, even though the nant women to leave her job at a des- 
Pregnancy Discrimination Act was ignated phase of her pregnancy and 
passed in 1978. At that time, it was gave no guarantee that she would have 
very common and legal for pregnant a job to return to. 
women to lose their jobs. In many states, teachers were not
Many companies required a preg- allowed to teach while they were show­
“For many women, pregnancy 
is anything but a barrel of 
laughs. ”
ing because it was 
thought to be bad for 
the children. The Preg­
nancy Discrimination 
Act addressed these 
concerns by making it 
illegal to treat preg­
nancy differently from 
any other condition.
The Family and 
Medical Leave Act, 
passed in 1993, made 
further legislative 
strides in protecting the 
rights of pregnant 
women by guarantee­
ing up to twelve weeks 
of unpaid leave and out­
lawing discrimination.
Unfortunately, laws 
have not ceased injus­
tices against pregnant women. 
In 1995, the Equal Employment 
Opportunities Commission re­
ceived 4,191 complaints of preg- 
nancy discrimination, a 
marked rise from 1991’s 3,000.
Pregnancy discrimination oc­
curs blatantly, in cases of fir­
ing, but it often occurs in a subtle 
manner that is difficult to prosecute. 
Many times, dismissals are said to be 
ramifications of downsizing.
An extremely common form of dis­
crimination occurs when a woman re­
Simona Lo/Tartan Art Co-editor
turns to work and is faced with ; 
demotion or poor promotion prospects. 
This is evidence that too many eni- 
ployers continue to believe the stereo- 
type that a pregnant woman or a 
woman who has given birth will ] 
ambivalent about her work or be more 
prone to quitting because of her in. 
creased family loyalty.
This stereotype does not exist for ex­
pectant or new fathers, who do not get 
fired or demoted when their family ex­
pands.
According to the New York Times,, 
study done by the Families and Work 
Institute strongly suggests that this 
stereotype is a myth, because a vast 
majority of pregnant women work into 
the final month of pregnancy and re­
turn to work within three to six months 
of their deliveries.
Pregnancy is a normal and impor­
tant phase of a woman’s life, but it is 
certainly not an indicator that 
woman will make a less-skilled or 
eventually uncommitted employee. 
Both perceptions of pregnant women 
in television and movies and the ex­
istence of pregnancy discrimination 
point to a need to stop judging women 
according to the condition of their 
wombs.
Christy Hipchen is a junior profes­
sional writing major.
Acclaimed writer shares worksStudent refuses to sell out for work
By ANDREW WANG
Tartan Staffwriter
1 Last Monday, Robert Olen 
¡Butler, a Pulitzer Prize win­
ding novelist, spoke as part of 
the 1996-97 Visiting Writers Se­
ries, sponsored by the English 
Department’s creative writing 
program. Butler read from his 
works in the Adamson Wing.
“From his first novel in 1981, 
Alleys of Eden, Robert Olen But­
ler was recognized as a writer
and is currently working on a 
screenplay for Paramount.
Butler said that the book Tab­
loid Dreams came out of a pe­
riod immediately following his 
writing A Good Scent From a 
Strange Mountain.
“[A Good Scent From a 
Strange Mountain’s] deepest 
engaged issues included cul­
tural exile, loss and explora­
tion, search for self and iden­
tity. Those things were still 
kicking around me in coded
“Mr. Butler has gone on to become 
his own voice and to make his own 
... resonant sounding ...of the human 
spirit. ”
— Hillary Masters, 
professor of English
of distinction and importance 
... Mr. Butler has gone on to 
become his own voice and to 
make his own particular and 
resonant sounding, if you will, 
of the human spirit,” said 
Hillary Masters, professor of 
English and creative writing 
who introduced Butler.
Butler has published eight 
critically acclaimed books since 
1981: seven novels (The Alleys 
of Eden, Sun Dogs, Country­
men of Bones, On Distant 
Ground, Wabash, The Deuce 
and They Whisper) and a vol­
ume of short fiction, A Good 
Scent from a Strange Moun­
tain, which won the 1993 
Pulitzer Prize for fiction.
His stories have appeared in 
such publications as the New 
Yorker, Harper’s, GQ, The 
Hudson Review, The Virginia 
Quarterly Review and The 
Sewanee Review and have been 
chosen for inclusion in four an­
nual editions of The Best Ameri­
can Short Stories and five an­
nual editions of New Stories 
from the South.
His works have been trans­
lated into a dozen languages, 
including Vietnamese, Thai, 
Korean, Polish, Japanese, 
and Greek.
A recipient of both a 
Guggenheim Fellowship in fic­
tion and a National Endowment 
for the Arts grant, Butler has 
also won the Richard and Hinda 
Rosenthal Foundation Award 
from the American Academy of 
Arts and Letters and was a fi­
nalist for the PEN/Faulkner 
Award. His new book of short 
fiction, Tabloid Dreams, is be­
ing developed into a series for 
HBO, a project he is co-produc­
ing. He has recently written 
screenplays for Twentieth Cen­
tury Fox and Warner Brothers
form. But one night [I was] 
standing in the checkout line in 
the all night [store], and shift­
ing a cold bottle of milk from 
hand to hand. Suddenly [the 
idea] leaped out and attached 
itself to a headline of a tabloids 
in front of me. I think that night 
the headline was ‘A Boy Born 
with Tattoo of Elvis.’ ”
“Within Tabloid Dreams what 
could be more American these 
days? What could be more ex­
emplifying of America ... of frus­
tration from the dreams and
the idols that we can identify 
with, with such stories such as 
‘Doomsday Meteor is Coming’ 
and ‘Every Man She Kisses 
Dies,’ ” said Masters.
The two short stories that 
Butler read to the audience that 
night were titled “JFK Secretly 
Attends Jackie Auction,” and 
“Help Me Find My Spaceman 
Lover.” Both stories were from 
Tabloid Dreams.
“Today, he’s heard inciden­
tally, that there is a rave re­
view of this book [Tabloid 
Dreams] in the upcoming Sun­
day New York Times, so get 
them while they last,” said 
Masters.
Butler teaches creative writ­
ing at McNeese State Univer­
sity in Lake Charles, Louisi­
ana, where he lives with his 
wife, novelist and playwright 
Elizabeth Dewberry.
Begun in 1971, the Visiting 
Writing Series invites between 
six and twelve writers to speak 
each academic year. In the past, 
the series has included such 
noted writers as Jamaica 
Kincaid, Rita Dove (who won 
the Pulitzer Prize for poetry in 
1987 for Thomas and Beulah, 
published by Carnegie Mellon 
University Press), and James 
Tate and Carolyn Kizer, also 
Pulitzer Prize winners.
The next visiting writer will 
be Cornelius Eady, appearing 
Thursday, Nov. 14, and Gre­
gory Orr, an English professor 
appearing in February.
EXIT
ON MY WAY OUT
by Eric Salzman
Aren’t we supposed to wait 
until we’re 35 to sell out? So 
much for defying the system
— today’s students may as 
well have written the system 
in code and then transferred 
it to htmelon. We drink the 
system up like cheap wine at 
an open bar.
What I’m getting at is the suits 
you see walking around cam­
pus. Not the old people in suits
— they’re supposed to do that. 
I’m talking about young people 
in suits. You probably recognize 
the suits because they get worn 
day after day, seeing as how 
most seniors just have the one 
“interview” suit.
Right now many of my fellow 
seniors are interviewing with 
various companies from around 
the country. Returned success 
of the BOC has given many stu­
dents the opportunity to get 
their foot in the door, even if it 
usually is the door to the old 
Morewood Gardens dining 
room; for an interview.
Not to complain or anything, 
but I gave my resume to two 
companies at the BOC and I 
have yet to have the need to
break out my interview 
suit. International Paper 
asked me why I was in­
terested in their com­
pany. I said that I worked 
on a newspaper and it 
would be really cool to 
see where the materials 
come from. When the rep­
resentative told me train­
ing would be in Memphis,
I said that I would like to 
see Memphis so the job 
sounded pretty cool. The 
phone hasn’t been ring­
ing.
When the Prudential 
representative asked me 
what my background in 
business was, I pointed 
out my strong academic career in 
philosophy. She then asked me 
what I wanted to do with my life. 
I told her that I wanted to be a 
journalist. She politely accepted 
my resume. I still haven’t heard 
from her. How odd.
I’ve decided to revert back to 
plan B for graduation. I called up 
Yellowstone Park and asked for 
an application to bus tables dur­
ing the summer.
To get this job I need two let­
ters of recommendation from past 
employers. If I am fortunate 
enough to land my bussing ca­
reer out in Wyoming, I’ll be mak­
ing a luxurious $4 an hour.
So what I’m wondering is why 
all my friends want real jobs. 
Aren’t we supposed to be thumb­
ing our noses at society and re­
fusing to cave in until we have a
Simona Lo/Tartan Art Co-editor
family to support? Have they 
(they being the five middle age 
white men sitting in a room 
smoking cigars) really beaten 
us into submission?
We are desperate to enter the 
system that offers us banking 
fees, Superman, and Bernard 
Shaw in the same company, 
$13 large pizzas and florally 
packaged iced-tea.
Doesn’t anyone want to drive 
cross-country any more? 
Doesn’t anyone want to be 
young? Doesn’t anyone want to 
fart in corporate America’s face?
Eric Salzman is a senior phi­
losophy major. He will retract 
everything in this column as 
soon as he receives his first job 
offer. Westinghouse, GE, Time 
Warner, Disney — act now!
TOYOTA'S REMARKABLE RAV4
’hhh dAi PbL,n .AeMA x1Sit/ 'iTTitn Pe-i/ k1ti VS11TA2U by- Fii2/ 
k1ti 6eSJ2i dABy byU VrL kB-ih’ -AutoWeek, June '%
'The RAV4 Is A Fun-Junkie's Dream Machine." -Car And Driver, April ‘96
"Toyota's New RAV4 Seems To Bridge The Cast Casm Between Car And Truck. This 
Little Wagon With Big Wheels Is A Car And A Truck." -Car And Driver, April ‘96 
’PB22UXxBt 4itl1tSByMin xBStUX9egi :7B2eTU’ -Car And Driver, July ‘96There's More. Your RAV4 Can Be A 2-Door Or 4-Door, A Front-Wheel Drive Or A 4-Wheel Drive, On-Road Or Off-Road With Room For Up To 5 And Cargo, Too.
TOYOTA RAV4 ... IT S OUT THERE AT YOURTOYOTA DEALER NOW! Simply<mBest

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 4 November 1996L3
Online journalist 
impresses students
Kenneth J. Kraemer/Tartan Editor-m-Chief 
Online journalist Brock meeks spoke last week 
In McConomy Auditorium.
By DANIELLE PIERRATTI
Tartan Staffwriter
intrigued by Meeks’ 
writing as well. “I’ve 
always been very in­
terested in the maga­
zine. I consider the 
Internet one of the 
newest and most im­
portant methods of 
communication, so I 
think it’s very impor­
tant to have journal­
ism like his on the 
Internet,” he said.
Ravi Hampole, a se­
nior design major, had 
additional motives for 
attending. “[Meeks’ 
work] brings a lot of 
design issues up. For 
example, one of the 
current issues that 
was relevant was the 
idea of scenarios,” he said. Re­
garding the importance of elec­
tronic journalism he said, ”1 think 
it has a lot to do with the way that 
we’re going to be living in the 
next couple of years.”
Aside from all this, Brendan 
Scott Abbott, coordinator of AB 
Lectures, had other reasons for 
inviting Meeks to come and speak 
at CMU. “I think CMU is a 
unique community because it has 
such a strong engineering and 
computer science curricula, but
“There’s a lot of dumb money 
out there.”
This statement was the first in 
series of Brock Meeks’ five im­
portant rules for Cyberspace. The 
well-known Internet journalist, 
who has been called “the best 
known chronicler of the Internet” 
by Time magazine, spoke last 
Wednesday in the McConomy 
Auditorium.
His work as the former chief it also has some of the best fine 
Washington correspondent for arts programs. Since Brock is
Professor introduces new book
By KRISTA CONTEJTO
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
“For some reason, a man writing in a notebook is given privacy 
in public. That’s been my experience.” These are the opening lines 
to Home is the Exile, the new novel by Hilary Masters, professor of 
creative writing. Last Wednesday, the English department held a 
closed reception in the Danforth Lounge.
Professor Masters’s novel is his seventh among the eleven he has 
published. It is a story of two men, unrelated except for their lost 
idealism. Roy Armstrong, whose words begin the novel, is an
“i’ve found his knowledge of the 
industry as helpful as his com­
ments on my writing. ”
— Mike Sperger, senior creative 
and professional writing major
aviator who has lost his U.S. citizenship after aiding the failed 
Spanish revolution, and lives in 1939’s Mexico. Walt Hardy’s story 
begins at the reading of a will in contemporary Pittsburgh, where 
he was raised, after having served Col. Oliver North.
The novel bounces between characters, letting the reader know 
which is which by the typeface of the text —1939 is in a typewriter 
print, and the present is depicted in the text used in most books 
today. Both men are connected through their struggle to gain back 
hope and search for the faith they have lost.
Professor Masters has taught at Carnegie Mellon for 13 years. 
Richard Young, professor of English, who was the head of the 
English department at that time, offered him the position after he 
had finished teadhing in Finland through a Fulbright Lecture 
series on American Literature.
Masters did not plan on teaching at Carnegie Mellon longer than 
a year. When asked why he stayed in Pittsburgh, he said, “The 
English department is a very special group ... Carnegie Mellon 
provides a warm, stimulating community.” Masters also expressed- 
an enthusiasm for his students. “They’re smart, aggressive, and- 
think for themselves.... They get better every year, and each year 
I think they teach me more than I do them,” he said.
In addition to teaching his regular classes of Survey of Forms— 
Fiction, Fiction Workshop, and the Personal Essay, Masters has 
also been touring the country promoting his new novel. Stops 
include San Franscico, Los Angeles, Miami, Washington D.C., 
and his hometown of Kansas City, Missouri.
When asked if he was writing anything presently, Masters said 
he was working on a book of essays which he expects to be 
published next, and another mystery novel, his last being Manu­
script for Murder under the pseudonym P. J. Coyne.
Masters’s students find his publishing success a help in their 
writing.
Michael Sperger, Professional and Creative Writing, ‘98, pres­
ently a student of Masters, said, “His class has definitely helped 
me shape my own writing style. With the state of creative writing 
today and all the competition, I’ve found his knowledge of the 
industry is as helpful as his comments on my writing.”
“He gives a lot of attention to honing your technique... [and] 
really concentrates on perfecting the scene,” said Bill Walton a 
senior mathematics and creative writing major. “Hillary takes 
the idea of the essay back to Montagne [the creator of the essay], 
using the juxtaposition of three points to explore an idea rather 
than to argue a thesis. Last semester, he went to France to 
Montagne’s tower and walked along where Montagne used to 
pace.”'
Other books by Masters are Palace of Strangers, An American 
Marriage, Hammertown Tales, Success: New and Selected Sto­
ries, Last Stands: Notes from Memory, and The Harlem Valley 
Trio: Strickland, Cooper, and Clemm,ons.
Copies of Home is the Exile are being sold in the University 
Shoppe.
Wired I Hotwired magazine, as 
well as creator of his own on-line 
publication, CyberWire Dispatch, 
have earned him that title, and 
many others. He has won awards 
including “Best Investigative Ar­
ticle” from the Computer Press 
Association in 1996, and the Na­
tional Press Club award for “Ex­
planatory Journalism” in 1993.
Meeks also holds another title: 
“the most dangerous man on the 
Internet.”
“I consider [it] my. badge of 
honor,” he said over dinner. It’s a 
badge that he has earned by his 
outspoken statements on contro­
versial issues, such as the one 
above, which refers to money that 
people are willing to spend on 
ventures that are not likely to 
succeed.
Having devoted himself to jour­
nalism “the hard way,” Meeks 
claims to report the truth by go­
ing out and getting it, rather than 
using tactics such as forming per­
sonal relationships with the 
people he writes about. In the 
process he has acquired an ag­
gregation of stories about Wash­
ington that, aside from infuriat­
ing him, have provided him with 
the information he needs to speak 
out about them in his writing.
“You really do go kind of crazy 
because it just doesn’t make 
sense. You want to go out there 
and scream and yell and make a 
ruckus in the hearing room ... I 
just try to channel that,” he said.
It was several of these contro­
versial topics that were the basis 
of his lecture. He spoke of how to 
find success working on the 
Internet by using assets such as 
“dumb money,” his recent resig­
nation from Hotwired magazine 
(His last day was Thursday), and 
why he thinks it’s about to come 
down from its pedestal for a while. 
He also spoke about freedom of 
expression in public, including in 
Cyberspace, on which he had a 
very straightforward opinion: “All 
1 have to say about that is — 
what part of ‘free’ don’t you un­
derstand?”
While many people seemed in­
trigued by his views, others ques­
tioned the ethics of being seduced 
by “dumb money,” and his state­
ment that “I don’t think you can 
fte a good journalist if you’re ob­
jective.”
“Some people hate [Hotwired] 
and some people love it,” said 
Joelle Dietrick, the graduate pro­
-am and publication assistant 
for the Art Department, who at­
tended because of her interest in 
the magazine. “Some people think 
^e magazine is too slick and 
therefore mindlessly seductive. 
Other people are obsessed with 
being up to date on every new 
technology,” she said. Felipe 
Conill, an ECE freshman, was
one of the best-known Internet 
journalists and advocates of free­
dom of speech around today I 
thought his lecture would ap­
peal to such a community,” he 
said.
Perhaps most useful for CMU 
students, however, was what 
Meeks’ had to say about the com­
puter science industry and its 
link to journalism.
Aside from his five rules for 
the Internet, he had other things 
to say about making it in 
Cyberspace. “You have to be hon­
est. You have to be rigorous with 
all the tenets of traditional jour­
nalism but then you have to take 
it a step further,” he said.
Regarding careers in general, 
Meeks said, “Find something 
that you love to do and that you 
think is important and do it bet­
ter than anybody else ... Then 
you’ll get noticed.”
As for his dream job, now that 
he is no longer working for 
Hotwired he said, “I’d want some­
body to pay me a lot of dumb 
money just to publish CyberWire 
Dispatchhe said.
The next lecture of the AB Lec­
ture Series will be “The Physics 
of Star Trek,” on November 8, at 
8pm in McConomy Auditorium.
News happens. For nearly 91 ye 
we’ve been telling you all aboTARTANSince 1906.
Creative Control.
1920T
A Business of Caring.
Internet Address: http://www.cignn.com
Intelligence. Credentials. Ambition. This powerful combination needs only 
one thing more. A venue in which to excel. CIGNA, for example.
We're 44,000 people strong. We're 96 billion dollars big. We're five continents 
across. We're health care. We're insurance. We're investment management. 
And we're covering new ground in a world-of financial services designed to 
do good things for good people.
If you're looking for a place where you can exercise care and creativity—as 
well as control over your career, come with us. And accept the challenge of 
leadership.
On campus:
Date: November 6, 1996
Time: 5:30 - 6:30 p.m.
Location: Bach Auditorium
We're an equal opportunity employer. M/F/D/V."CIGNA" refers to CIGNA and/or one or more of its subsidiaries. Most employees are employed by subsidiaries of CIGNA Corporation, which provide insurance and related products.
ONE OF A KIND.
At XonTech, people are the 
key to our success. Over the 
years we have carefully 
attracted the best scientific 
and technical specialists 
from government, 
academia, and industry.
Do You Have What it Takes to Join Our Elite Team?
XonTech is a nationally recognized, progressive R&D firm specializing in the 
analysis of complex physical phenomena and development of advanced con­
cepts and technologies In support of numerous defense programs. Our corpo­
rate culture Is exciting, demanding and personally and professional satisfying. 
We have many stimulating opportunities tor individuals with a PhD, Master’s 
or Bachelor's degree In Mathematics, Physics, Computer Science or in 
Electrical Engineering with an emphasis in signal processing.
If you would like more information about XonTech and discover for yourself If 
you would like to be part of our elite team,
We will be conducting on-campus interviews 
Nov. 7,1996, Career Planning and Placement Center
U.S. Citizenship is required for all positions. Applicants selected will be subject 
to a government security Investigation and must meet eligibility requirements 
for access to classified information.
If unable to attend the on-campus session, please submit cover letter and 
your resume/CV to the Corporate Human Resources Dept., 6862 
Hayvenhurst Ave., Van Nuys, CA 91406. Visit us on the Worldwide Web at 
http:/www.xti.com. and check us out on the Monster Board at 
http://www.monster.com.
s XonTech, Inc.
“People, Science and Technology" ;. Northern & Southern California $b.Ç.; Huntsville, AL; Denver, CO; Dayton, OH
• Y EquaÍ Opportunity Employer M/F/D/V
NOW PLAYING THROUGH NOVEMBER ojXR WEEKS ONLY
THE MOST FAMOUS LOVE TRIANGLE IN HISTORY!
UNDER 25? FULL-TIME STUDENT? EITHER WAY...
daxzCdV I69Q kI(
OFFER VALID EVERY PERFORMANCE EXCEPT SATURDAYS AT 8:00, SUBJECT TO AVAILABILITY.
PITTSBURGH
by EDMOND ROSTAND
CHARGE 8Y PHONE IN ADVANCÉ (¿Li 9^ 321 “9800VISA, MASTERCARD, AMERICAN EXPRESS \ ¦* *» / " WWW
PolsPld iagrfKltotmrgi] ¡Ponl-6a«lfeKDKAlo

---------------------------------------------------

*•* r » % li".
Oa9'CPd ® by Scott Ada ms
C AT BERT: EVIL H.R. DIRECTOR
TO: ML EMPLOYEES 
THE SMELL OF POPCORN 
IN THE OFFICE 15 
UNPROFESSIONAL...
THIS AWARD GOES TO TIM FOR HIS 
INCREDIBLE ACCOM­
PLISHMENT.
UM... I LIKE MAKING 
POPCORN IN THE 
MICROWAVE AND EATING IT WHILE I 
PRETEND TO WORK.
HE'SBANNING POPCORN!FIRST IT WAS TOBACCO,
THENPERFUME, NOW
THIS... THERE'S ONLY
ONEPOLLUTANT LEFT.
/SJ
AFTER TWO YEARS OF 
STONEWALLING ALL 
PROGRESS, TirA FINALLY AGREED TO DO THE 
WORK. FOR WHICH HE 
WAS HIRED.
YOUR BODY LANGUAGE 
TELLS ME THAT SOMETHING EVIL IS
GOING TO L0VE-
HAPPEN TO r 
MY POPCORN 
PRIVILEGES.
J
...THIS BRINGS ME TO THE UNPLEASANT 
SUBJECT OF WALLY...
ILCP d0C 0CO;C ® by Michael Fry and T Lewis
...WITH THI4 PLEASANT LOU- NUTRITIONAL RID4E MEETING A THREATENING DOME of HI6H HEALTH AUARENfrt... ue could be inFOR-SOME TOU6H
...ANP FRUIT-BAR FLA^H-FLOOP WARNING MEANS WE MAS HAVETO SEEK Hl£>HEP.

---------------------------------------------------

NON ^EQUmnt BY V1I=K
C6dPQX9CLC9
L127S71i 7i 
Smo n1a/mSoT
a6OrVdPQ
drC 9C;b9 
CbP9Q .bP6a6; 
,Q,dCk
AW, GEEI...
1 UkK IT WHEN 
YoU PoKE YOUR 
FINGER INTo 
EACH oNE, TUEN 
PUT TUE oNK 
YoU DON’T 
LIKE BtCK IN 
TUE BOX
vn=K .0-1
FINANCIAL 
INDEPENDENCE 
IN THE 
NINETIES
MAYBE 1T'4 
JUST MY 
IMAGINATION, 
DoCToR, BUT 
LATELY I FEEL 
A£ TUoUGU 
PEOPLE FIND 
ME BORING
.0Q ad d11g 
K .ra9C F1P 
;PCCda6; xbPO) 
d1 xbdxr 16hhh
vimy.
® by Jim Meddick
i1
/
Isen.
&%
¦A

---------------------------------------------------

tmtefimio 
//nefrn'iznti 
MÜlMtXXtW
Absolutely 
Molhe r 
c Hera, j
///mi'
tfars/tmtv
S/VtttKXS./Kr Jwt/*t&exf naridjL' I I ^ iGsorry for
jfjf j^fll I FAIREST 
fe?/ Aphrodite.
r*h<*ik>m; iru|e »| fry hrti-Lher
5 wi.11. allow Di.Yi.aie 
intervention, but notitt-'aei«# b&ja.bat!
YoEi'f t* only aiky.wii‘d 1.« 
support a:ntf diirect
-h Wh» «J«> y on; S ¦*? ihîofc' • «jacrtvi** tti* Tnr*i»r*
«ÎJ«t*CÇWH enCt/D ¦*£>*»-¿1 eathii to dît i 1 y.) i* t iMiiu? *
\ ot lLKXf
Lïdyfkicn sanvrasf/y
hx$$' (
rKitzKtyx
Right,
Athen*?Auî pnFBaI iWœiis ¡s 
(toi terni »¡to }M ta 
usurp Iite tìmnc,,.
¥ tfìt'rlM¦'rn«*r Uffff'ti 
¦/ ìy. cffrifi adwxtàfwe. )
Prinu' Hwlvr 
is t \ mry abk 
mm. hnt tw's > târmây nummi/ 
cmd has a soil S
¿&stdh$ x fecxpd/tâ 
îiStnm^kTi
.gfj[ C^~-t W,$$#?&¦ .
Sh1 DerpiuÄHiB k km shtrti 
tarpsuoi «jîî Âijàf« tsùtdétiU J 
ktffairld* mi thf fapi i y «s# w >
Sir Paris 
lop* (fee list 
«r course™,
Oh.... ¿è/?,y iia '//Yjhïii*i Ci!£ll«» j /luoktai; v'*{
TfVhul AfcKJUt 
Polydamas?
Whoever breaks 
XhU promît sMll 
suffer «iernully io Hadès*! ,
I, the Son of Chronos*, shall be the 
judge and 
Umpire?
AVyitóq jre/* 
A MfJIünry äfciiCfi äluiäSfi ,\li /riVlïii^ 
(H Btaitt titxt l hù ckilifffixrf. r* ~
Bui A& \'s im \ 
much of ¿F J 
mt/ftnry mm } 
rsJ for me/ y'
/ T&W ^ 
tiBMT 1sMtWU
dqWeie8 . I 'fxzräX «Oft tilg *1*!»*
iv SH<1 yow $evrOvL TABT£o r
Any objections?!
* ftoe Ssjs èf {Si nww - tmk
Sift’s Vj^_ (¿\)Wi3f Jitj.
Sq ütnrn.-.'^ih-e.
^aS AVn‘i_5 big- •¦
ï \-^^ÀA\LCy
by Vjairta-l) Atóf-
aky -Wâotö'^5 '
, ^ûü j 
tajpt. ¦ )t 4)35 
^Tot'all^ Vi-hoo<> , bJMs\r
^'¦nn ^tiyAjas1 ? 1
JUST TO 3How THAT THE.f.E IS No IU. WILL TÖV/AH.D OOfrS, TVt 1 S 1<> A SPECIAV. COMIC MADE TUST FOR. IIxtVh LIr .I6vd UNDEP-STAND ad dE-CAUSE. IT'4 Af to& erfgardu iaoYDUR DOCr SHOULD EN TOY IT. SO SPREAD 
THE PAPER OUT IN front qF him andL-E-T HIM READ IT FOIL DNCE RATHER. THAH 3UST PISS OM XT
XN A RECENT COMIC FRED KICKED A 
SMALL DOG:
©niLNiwoiAs e*taATQ'TK.
WOO F WOOF,
v WooF
Woop. 
Woo F. 
WOOF,'WooF: ^
.1IFh.IIFn 
h ì.IIFhhWOOFl
kCI.h
Ûo'*» 4110^ SÇitrv^e» 
u>o.s areoft ”Xîwit Ç*«- 
<wvAW.\

---------------------------------------------------

Volume 91, Issue 9The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania4 November 1996
All photos this page by Jason Seigendorf/Tartan Photo Editor
Above, Daniel Leahlman and Jessica Chappell participate in the Latin portion of the Ballroom Dance 
competition. Left, Chris Hardown and Elissa Gilbert also participate in the competition.
Tinti out what the dancers are saying ...
“[Dancing] is the most addictive 
thing in the world. ”
- Michael Posner, adult category
“Ballroom dancing is not only physi­
cal but ik a social sport. The relation­
ships you make start on the dance 
floor and last a lifetime. ” 
—Andy Pueschel, sophomore 
IM major
“[Dancing] is my life. I love it.”
— Marina Corleto, Case 
Western Reserve University student
VT7-iyT/ ABsi B JB22 BT M1SEiTeTe1y
By TOM LIN
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
What is athletic and artistic? What is elegant 
and sensuous? What is going to be an Olympic 
event in the year 2000? The answer is ballroom 
dancing. Carnegie Mellon’s seventh annual 
ballroom dance competition, the Scotch Ball, 
was held this past Saturday.
Taking place over practically the entire day 
in Rangos Hall, the Scotch Ball is this year’s 
replacement for the Spring Fling. The compe­
tition is traditionally held in the spring (hence 
the name), but scheduling difficulties made an 
earlier dance more favorable. Scores of danc­
ers competed from early morning to late into 
the night, not to mention the hundreds of 
bystanders who stopped by to admire the danc­
ers, to cheer on friends, or simply to see what 
fever had apparently gripped much of the stu­
dent population.
The first things noticed at the Scotch Ball 
were the dancers in tuxedos, the dancers in 
gowns with frills, and dancers in casual clothes, 
all doing what they love to do — dancing. Next, 
you would have noticed the crowd. If you 
thought that dancing was a quiet, reserved 
activity — think again. This crowd actively 
participated all throughout the day’s activities
— applauding, cheering, catcalls, and even the 
wave were all status quo. Finally, you would 
have noticed that there were no frowns, no 
angry looks, no tears. Although part of the 
Scotch Ball was competition, it was much more 
than that. The most important aspect of the 
ball was the sense of comraderie that it brought 
about among local dancers. “Ballroom dancing 
is not only physical but is a social sport.... The 
relationships you make start on the dance floor 
and last a lifetime,” said Andy Pueschel, a 
sophomore IM major.
The spirit made everybody involved more 
concerned about having fun, as opposed to 
focused on winning prizes.
The Scotch Bali was split into two main
sections during the day: the “smooth” section 
and the “Latin” section. The smooth section, as 
explained by Scotch Ball organizer and junior 
architecture major, Jee Sun Kim, is more open 
to interpretation. One example is the hold, which 
may be looser than in international style ball­
room dancing.
In addition, spins may be added in the smooth 
style dances, where in Latin style they would be 
frowned upon. In general, the international style 
is more strict when dealing with movements anjl 
holds. Throughout the day, student and adult 
dancers of varying skill levels, ranging froiji 
newcomer to advanced, competed in a wide 
variety of dances, often in both Latin and smooth 
categories. Some of these dances include the 
waltz, foxtrot, tango, Viennese waltz, quickstep, 
cha-cha, rumba, jive, samba, paso dolbe, and 
mambo.
Jee Sun Kim explained the factors in making 
the Scotch Ball a success. Two of the foremost of 
these concerns were that people have fun during 
the event and that people are happy with the 
events throughout the day.
By these criteria, the Scotch Ball may be con­
sidered a resounding success. Everyone there 
appeared to be having a great time. “I’m having 
a blast,” said Bill Racicot, a participant in the 
adult category. Indeed, this appeared to be a 
universal sentiment among the participants, 
judges, and bystanders.
Overall, the Scotch Ball was a smashing suc­
cess. The event managed to bring students, 
adults, friends, strangers, a whole community 
closer together. For ballroom dancers, it pro­
vided an opportunity to show off their skills, as 
well as meet new people and make contact with 
others with similar interests. For newcomers to 
the sport, it was a breathtaking introduction to 
the magic and beauty that lies in the dance. For 
those who missed out this year, it’s not too late 
to begin. Linette Pirrung, a participant in the 
adult category, said,“Everybody should do it. 
There’s a place for everybody at every level at 
every age.”
Dance club inspires toe-tappin’ fun
By TRACY ODELL
Tartan Staffwriter
What has 800 feet and loves to rumba? The 400 
members of the Ballroom Dance club have a pas­
sion for the rumba and many other dances from the 
waltz to swing to disco that they practice and 
compete in regularly.
The club was started eight years ago by some ECE 
graduate students and consisted of only ten mem­
bers in its first year. Since then the club has grown 
to be the largest on campus. Just this year it doubled 
its membership, indicating a strong interest and 
enthusiasm for ballroom dancing at CMU. Under­
graduates comprise more the half the club’s mem­
bership with graduate stu­
dents, faculty, and staff 
making up the rest. Every 
department on campus is 
represented.
On a campus renowned 
for its stressful lifestyle, 
ballroom dancing offers 
students the chance to re­
lax, have fun, and forget 
about homework. Drew 
Shefman, a 1996 graduate 
and former president of the 
club, says “you can’t think 
about homework while
you i e thinking about youi stefanje stine and Adam Turte are members of theieet. The social atmo- D ol ._ , . Ballroom Dance Club.spnere ensures members
that they will meet or even dance with people from 
all walks of campus life. Besides all the fun, dancing 
also offers the extra benefit of being great exercise.
Catherine Ewell, a sophomore psychology major, 
became interested in learning to dance after watch­
ing movies like Swing Kids and Strictly Ballroom.
She also figured it would be a good way to impress 
her friends at parties.
The Ballroom Dance Club meets weekly to prac­
tice. Each Wednesday night, lessons are offered to 
members. In addition to the lessons, the club also 
holds social dances and demonstrations throughout
the year. They sponsor one competition per year, 
with the most recent being last Saturday [please 
see related article on L7]. During the Interna­
tional Festival, they held demonstrations of Latin 
dances and last weekend they held a social dance 
on Friday before the competition. The social dance 
gave competitors from different schools a chance 
to meet one another in a relaxing atmosphere and 
also practice for the next day’s competition.
The club has a competition team that travels 
around the country testing its skill and style 
against other dancers. This year’s team is com­
pletely new, but the team has been very successful 
in the past. Last year it took first place in every 
competition in which it took part.
In addition to the 
regional competi­
tions, every spring the 
team makes a trip to 
either Florida or En­
gland during spring 
break. This year the 
team travels to En­
gland where they plan 
to dance for 16 hours 
a day while compet­
ing against 600 teams 
from the U.S. and 
Europe.With the new 
University Center, the 
club finally has a place 
to call home. In the 
past they had danced 
in various places like the Drill Deck, Thistle Gym­
nasium, and even in conference rooms at Mellon 
Institute. Shefman says “space has been the big­
gest problem ever” for the club and describes 
Rangos Hall as “awesome” with its new sound 
system and hardwood floors perfect for dancing.
New members are always welcome at the club. 
Beginners are invited to try the club’s lessons for 
free their first time. Beginner lessons are Wednes­
day night at 5:45 pm or 9 pm in Rangos Hall. No 
partner is necessary.

---------------------------------------------------

soo•<DrHftfta!«
CO
3ftsCÜo\\••
Br+»-pA
O
a>
o-pin
Macintosh.More flexible than ever. 
.i -1y—T gy13 A13 U17—22 le22 ey TAi J2Bygh 
dABT—/ 3AU 3i SBgi kBMeyT1/A’M1SE7Tit/ 
/1 l2ipeJ2ih d1 Ai2E U17 Ji TAi let/T T1 -1 
3ABTisit U17 3ByT T1 -1h by- 3eTA 31t- 
Et1Mi//ey•n iB/U ayTityiT BMMi//n E13itl72 
S72TeSi-eB By- Mt1//XEeBTl1tS M1SEBTe¡
Je2eTUn B kBMv SBgi/ eT isiy iB/eit T1 -1 eTh 
013 -1 U17 •iT /TBtTi-¦ Le/eT U17t MBSE7/ 
M1SE7Tit /T1ti T1-BU By- EeMg 7E B kBMh
leave your mark.
©19% -Apple (iimputer. Inc. All rmrreil. Apple, tbe Apple logo. Mac and Macintosh an• ngiskml trademarks of Apple Computer. Inc. i\ll Macintosh computers ai»Is with disability, lb hum mon'll'S. only):call fWt)(MI-7lWS OrlTi'SOn-T55-Ofyli.¦ designed to be accessible to individu ¦
CMU takekscko tksUoscnd
/Mt ¿MteuAtcd ittuUttto MIG evidently invited to attend a* SeMiott:
Tiulmt/utttf 2t4
7fim -
TfotnUq. UtmfUt* It
'Dwi it coMtal. TRcfaaAm&tU uM it frwvieUd.
By choice, Ford Motor Company is an Equal Opportunity Employer.
ORACLG
Enabling the Information Age
ItBM2i x1tE1tBTe1yn Rjj ItBM2i 4Btg3BUn '1p ZRmRjon Pi-311- VA1ti/n xb m,jZRh FbG w,oRY RjZXojufh CXkBe2‘ H1J/@7/h1tBM2ihM1S 
'i /7ti T1 se/eT 17t .C' VadC BT‘ ATTE‘//333hZtBM2ihM1S Cq7B2 TB2iyT 3e22 B23BU/ •iT iq7B2 1EE1tT7yeTUh
You want to be the 
first to ___
MEET WITH REPRESENTATIVES OF THE FORD MOTOR COMPANY,
AND YOU’LL GET A TASTE OF THE 21 ST CENTURY. OUR ENGINEERING 
PROFESSIONALS ARE USING INNOVATIVE METHODS AND DESIGNS TO BRING 
EXCITING NEXT GENERATION PRODUCTS TO THE MARKET, AS OUR BUSINESS 
TEAM IS PROPELLING US INTO OUR BRIGHT FUTURE WITH THEIR SALES 8i 
Marketing talents.
Theirs. Ours.
What’s your career strategy? If you want to work with this decade’s top graduates implementing the world’s hottest information technology, plan to 
join Oracle. Our software solutions are changing the way human knowledge is gathered, stored, retrieved and utilized. Record sales of £4.2 billion 
and over 40% growth in the last year alone have put us in an excellent position to hire - and promote - over 100 of the best of the Class of ’97. If 
you have a BS/MS in CS, Math-CS, Information Networking, Technical Writing, Computer Engineering, or Software Engineering, you could 
become an Oracle Software Developer, Consultant or Product Manager and work on any number of advanced technologies and products, including:
Digital Library-"Alexandria" Internet Products Object Oriented Databases
Media Objects Object Oriented Development Tools Distributed Computing &
Enterprise Applications interactive Multimedia Networking
Massively Parallel Products Mobile Computing Data Security Architecture
Linguistics Based Products Data Warehousing & Mining Vertical Applications
We will be interviewing on campus November 5th and 6th.
Sign up at the Career Center and pick up your copy of “Projects at Oracle” today. E-Mailed resumes strongly encouraged.
INFORMA T/ON 
SESSION
L1 27S imo nmiaSi/LTn rL/t A C- 7m tLntom aonmoo LT oeod/mLdieB 
ysMHADxMAPB hf Mh,Elpsf oDgxDssfxDgB dh,Elpsf 3MxsDMsB hf 
yApHs,ApxM3 7m A Isgfss xD yAfJspxDgB oMhDh,xM3B nsDsfAP 
Cl3xDs33B hf AD yCi xD yADAgs,sDpB Mh,s PhhJ xDph •HAp 1hfI 
HA3 ph hUUsfvvvADI PsAfD A4hlp 1hfIN3 dhPPsgs nfAIlAps MAfssf 
IsbsPhE,sDp EfhgfA,9
ahDNp ,x33 pHx3 lDx6ls hEEhfplDxpF ph pAJs Fhlf pAPsDp3 xDph 
pHs Ulplfs •xpH pHs 1hfI yhphf dh,EADFB •s PhhJ Uhf•AfI 
ph ,sspxDg Fhl9

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 4 November 1996L9
Medium receives mediocre review
By ALEX LEWIN
Tartan Staffwriter
It’s difficult to characterize the 
type of theater demonstrated by 
director/creator Anne Bogart and 
her ensemble in The Medium,
Tadashi Suzuki — together they 
founded the Saratoga Interna­
tional Theater Institute — and 
that “they believe that the emo­
tional truth of a moment will dis­
close itself through rigorous for­
mal work with the body.” The
performedattheCityTheatre.lt program goes on to explain the 
is a show which consists not of a “Nine Viewpoints which serve as 
linear flow of scenes but an avant- the backbone of [Bogart’s] work.” 
garde jumble of images, 
sounds, and erratic 
movements, which are of­
ten (intentionally, it 
seems) very difficult to 
keep up with.
Bogart’s show is based 
on the life and predic­
tions of the famous me­
dia philosopher Marshall 
McLuhan, who wrote 
books on and predicted 
the results of our ever- 
changing, technologi­
cally-driven world. The 
play takes place in his 
mind during the moment 
at which a stroke occurs 
in his body, although I 
only know that from a 
note in the program; nothing on 
stage let me in on this. The pro­
gram also tells us that Bogart 
works with Japanese director
things onstage, especially one 
body to another.”
Where I come from, We call this 
“blocking.” Bogart allows this 
show to get so caught up in its 
own physicalness and loudness 
that it leaves the audience be­
hind. Or at least me. I felt as out 
of place as Bob Dole in a disco — 
like I was standing to one side, 
watching a bunch of crazy 
people move around and 
make lots of noise, won­
dering just what they 
were doing with them­
selves and what they 
hoped to accomplish.
The play’s message is 
as heavy-handed as its 
choreography. Charac­
ters bombard us with ex­
amples of ourmodern age 
(and the future), some­
times running through 
them like a laundry list: 
self-wateringplants, non- 
fattening fat, flying cars, 
gene mapping, virtual re­
ality, artificial intelli­
gence, et cetera. We have 
They include, “Gesture— amove- lines like, “Most people are still 
ment involving a part or parts of blissfully ignorant about what the 
the body,” and, “Spatial Relation- media does to them,” “Everything 
ship — the distance between is changing,” and the oft-repeated,
Courtesy of City Theater 
Ellen Lauren and Will Bond, (explore the role of the 
media in our lives in The Medium.
“You can’t go home again.”
It isn’t hard to figure out how 
Bogart feels about all this when 
she slings lines at us like, “The 
age of writing has passed,” “Art­
ists are the only people who en­
deavor to understand our envi­
ronment,” and my personal fa­
vorite, “Obscenity begins when 
there is no more spectacle, no 
more stage, no more theatre....” 
So what’s the point of all this? 
Technology is bad. Our depen­
dence on visual media is nefari­
ous and eradicates individuality. 
One character describes our world 
and where it’s going as “an ec­
stasy of communication,” and 
then she tells us, “and this ec­
stasy is obscene!”
As a consequence, The Medium 
feels more like some kind of artsy, 
overhanded, almost propagandis­
ts seminar on the evils of our 
society than a true piece of the­
atre. The message is pounded into 
our heads over and over again, 
and it’s nothing that necessitates 
90 minutes. That may not sound 
like a very long show, but if the 
shouting and stomping and crash­
ing make your head throb as badly 
as mine was, it will be the longest 
hour-and-a-half of your life.
Shakespeare appears at Playhouse
By MELISSA BATT
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The Point Park College Theater Company opened its 1996-97 
season with an adaptation of William Shakespeare’s Much Ado 
About Nothing. While this is my favorite Shakespearean play, I was 
disturbed that the director, Raymond Laine, has adapted the lan­
guage of the play to fit a wider audi­
ence and be more accessible, both to 
the audience and the actors. Every­
one of play-going age has at least 
heard of William Shakespeare, and 
many have probably read many of his 
works. The genius of Shakespeare lies 
in the language he uses. Fortunately, 
none of the changes were drastic, and 
the other alteration of the play com­
pensated. The actors refrained from 
the fake English accents that plague 
other renditions of Shakespeare’s 
works.
If you have ever seen the movie 
version, starring well-known actors, 
such as Keanu Reeves, Kenneth 
Branaugh, Emma Thompson, and Courtesy of The Playhouse.
Denzel Washington, any other ver- Brittney Sweeney, Brian Ferdman, David Liliich, and Amy Voigt star 
sion of Much Ado is a let down, jn Much Ado About Nothing at The Playhouse at Point Park College.
However, the players give it their 
all, and collectively deliver a good show.
Although only one set was constructed for the performance, it is 
altered with lighting and elaborate costumes. The costumes are 
colorful and uniquely constructed.
Without the few humorous scenes and several charismatic actors, 
the play would have been unmemorable. Brian Ferdman as Benedick
is hilarious, and is most likely the saving grace of the production. 
William P. McGinity as Leonato, Gerrard Spencer as Don Pedro, and 
David Liliich as Claudio, together with Ferdman, create an uproar 
with the scene in which they are trying to allow Benedick to overhear 
their tales of how Beatrice loves him.
Shelby Shannon (Dogberry), and the night watch crew also con­
tribute to the entertainment and mirth with their comic relief.
Shannon plays energetically, 
and reacts well with the other 
members of the cast with 
Dogberry’s well-performed idi­
ocy. Among the villains, Tom 
Cogley (Don John) is much too 
overbearing and acts with an 
unnecessary forcefulness. The 
vindictive Don John appears 
not simply as evil, but almost 
scary. Brittney Sweeney plays 
a witty Beatrice, but tries too 
hard. Her lines remain biting, 
but rehearsed. Her relation­
ship with Benedick is believ­
able, however, and meets she 
him halfway in her part. Even 
though Sweeney is no Emma 
Thompson, Gerrard Spencer is 
no Denzel Washington, and 
Tom Cogley is no Keanu 
Reeves, the cast delivers an entertaining evening of Shakespearean 
enjoyment.
Much Ado About Nothing will be performing from November 6 -9. 
Tickets ($10-$ 12) and are avail­
able at 621-4445.
Student critiques 
Bochco’s shows
On the Tube
Dan Rosenberg
When Steven Bochco’s shows 
are good, they are really, really 
good. When they’re bad, they’re 
really, really bad. In support of 
the former, there’s Hill Street 
Blues, the greatest program in 
television history, and its heir- 
apparent, NYPD Blue (ABC, 
Tuesdays, 10-11 pm). In sup­
port of the latter, we have the 
mega-flop Cop Rock and, more 
recently, the unwatchable Blue 
spin-off Public Morals (CBS, 
Wednesday, 9:30-10 pm).
Blue is undoubtedly the best 
police drama since, well, Hill 
Street, combining superb writ­
ing, acting, and direction into 
an exceptional hour of program­
ming. Blue's strongest asset is 
two-time Emmy winner Den­
nis Franz as Andy Sipowicz, a 
gruff and occasionally rude de­
tective whose manners have 
improved since his marriage to 
Sylvia Costas (the wonderful 
Sharon Lawrence). A former 
alcoholic who recently lost his 
son to violence, Sipowicz has 
gone to hell and back this year, 
in an unforgettable story arc 
dealing with loss and redemp­
tion.
Also stellar are Jimmy Smits 
as Bobby Simone, Sipowicz’s 
more eloquent partner, and 
Kim Delaney as Diane Russell, 
the squad’s only female detec­
tive. These two complex char­
acters are in an affair compli­
cated by his desire to wed and 
her fear of marriage. His wish 
to become engaged may be a 
longing to fill the void left by 
his late wife, while her marital 
qualms are caused by her par­
ents’ abusive relationship that 
culminated in her mother mur­
dering her father in self-de­
fense. The actors’ best scenes 
are together, as they try to come 
to terms with their pasts and 
look closely at the future of their 
relationship.
Rounding out the Blue en­
semble is James McDaniel
(underused as the squad room’s 
lieutenant), Nicholas Turturro 
as rookie detective James 
Martinez, and Gordon Clapp 
as the grating Greg Medavoy. 
In addition, award-winning 
casting director Junie Lowry- 
Johnson has added two great 
performers this year. Debra 
Christofferson, who was fabu­
lous as a crazed fan on Bochco’s 
Murder One last January, re­
places Gail O’Grady as the 
squad room’s secretary. 
Lourdes Benedicto, meanwhile, 
plays the upstairs receptionist 
who catches the eye of 
Martinez. If Benedicto’s name 
sounds familiar, it should. She 
graduated from CMU’s drama 
department last May, after cap­
tivating Kresge audiences with 
her stellar performance in 
Yerma last year.
Benedicto is replacing Bill 
Brochtrup’s John, the Blue 
character that is being spun- 
off into Morals. While John’s 
homosexuality was dealt with 
maturely by Blue's talented 
scribes, Morals co-creator and 
writer Jay Tarses {The Days 
and Nights of Molly Dodd) have 
turned him into a one-note cari­
cature of the gay man.
Morals is one of the worst 
programs I have ever seen, 
filled with horrible writing and 
stereotypical characters. In 
addition to the effeminate gay 
man, there is the tough woman 
trying to break through the 
glass ceiling, the bumbling 
boss, the womanizer, the flirt, 
the kiss-up, the moron (who 
makes Friends' Joey seem like 
a genius), and the jerk (who, in 
the pilot, uses his hands to 
unclog toilets — frequently). 
The show’s so-called jokes con­
sist of racist Asian slurs and an 
obsolete crack about Howard 
Metzenbaum, who retired from 
the Senate two years ago. The 
cast includes the incompetent 
Donal Logue, who played the 
babbling cab driver in those 
dreadful MTV commercials, 
and Peter Gerety, who could 
pull off the role of the inept 
lieutenant if he had a real script 
to work with.
Memo to Bochco — stick to 
drama.
NYPD Blue: A. Public Mor­
als: F.
One-man band makes improvement
By DAVID ELMAN
Tartan Staffwriter
The swine is back with his 
first full album in three years, I 
must confess that I didn’t have 
high expectations for Sinsation, 
but I was pleasantly surprised.
Who: Pig 
What: Sinsation 
j Label: Nothing Records
Pig has improved massively 
since I last heard him on the A 
Stroll in the Pork EP, and has 
convinced me that “Shit for 
Brains” (off his first outing, A 
Poke in the Eye ... With a Sharp 
Stick) may not have been a fluke 
after all.
Pig is a one-man band con­
sisting of Raymond Watts, per­
haps best known for his work 
with KMFDM, both as a found­
ing member and the primary 
vocalist on their 1995 album, 
Nihil. Lest this mislead any­
one, Pig’s solo work is not a copy 
of KMFDM, however, and in­
corporates moving electronic 
8oundscapes, samples of classi­
cal music, and the obligatory 
guitars without an overreliance 
on synthesizers. These elements 
separate Pig from many of the 
artists in the industrial genre 
who often are indistinguishable 
from one another. As a prime 
example of this, “Volcano” 
throws oscillating guitars over 
a catchy trip-hop tinged beat 
and soft drums, and in the
middle of the track classical 
music pushes out the guitars. 
Pig’s voice is deep and gravelly, 
free for the most part from dis­
tortion. Miscellaneous elec­
tronic sounds swirl through the 
mix, lending a slithery feel to 
the song. All.these elements are 
somehow brought together by 
Watts and the result is miracu­
lously tight.
The best tracks on Sinsation 
are almost ambient 
instrumentals, demonstrating 
Pig’s orchestrating talents. 
These include “Golgotha,” “An­
algesia,” and “Transceration.” 
The first is a marvelous dark 
ambient cut that is best listened 
to alone and with the lights out. 
The bass is alive and the foun­
dation of the piece, broken only 
by thudding drums. Some 
strings float above the bass, but 
by the time I realized they were 
there, I was looking for my as­
sassin. “Analgesia” is the long­
est of the three, and is reminis­
cent of “A Warm Place” and “At 
the Heart of It All,” both by 
Nine Inch Nails. The tone is a 
bit more friendly than that of 
“Golgotha,” but the song shares 
the same throbbing bass. How­
ever, piano and a bass drum 
kick give the track an epic feel, 
and the song has a fuller struc­
ture. “Tranceration” is the per­
fect piece to end the album, 
warmed by flowing strings, and 
it left me a bit depressed.
Other standout tracks are 
“The Sick,” which one could com­
pare with KMFDM’s “Brute,”
“Painiac,” which has one of the 
best openings heard in quite 
some time, and “Hamstrung on 
the Highway,” which juxtaposes 
a manic symphony and choir 
with a drum machine. Through­
out the disc are Pig’s evil vo­
cals, making it all feel won- 
drously unwholesome. This is 
quite an achievement, because 
at times I had trouble under­
standing Watts. From what I 
could gather, most of the lyrics 
deal with pain, hate, and love, 
like the snippet “Your lips / 
drink deeply on the bitter wa­
ters of hate and suspicion / and 
despair / don’t give me some­
thing I deserve / give me some­
thing I need.”
The one major problem I had 
with the album, ironically, had 
little to do with the music. The 
track titles are only listed once, 
and the scrawl is barely legible. 
Had there been no Internet, I 
still wouldn’t know what some 
of them are. A reprint of the 
lyrics would also have been 
helpful, allowing me to decipher 
those tricky phrases that I’m 
undoubtedly mutilating or not 
catching at all.
On the whole, this is a very 
strong album even if I couldn’t 
understand the lyrics. The mu­
sic was strong enough that I 
didn’t care, and that’s always a 
good sign. If one is looking for 
something off the beaten path 
but still highly listenable, 
Sinsation is a good choice. Just 
don’t get too dirty cavorting with 
the swine.
A SUITE FOR LESS 
THAN A HOTEL ROOM
$in
ELEGANTLY FURNISHED ONE OR TWO BEDROOM APARTMENT SUITES 
INCLUDE AN EQUIPPED KITCHEN, FLUFFYLINENS, TV, VCR, CABLE MOVIES, 
FREE LOCAL PHONE SERVICE AND RESERVED PARKING
CONVENIENTLY LOCATED AT 5405 FIFTH AVENUE, SHADYSIDE 2 BLOCKS 
FROM WALNUT STREET'S 145 FASHIONABLE SHOPS AND 12 DELICIOUS 
RESTAURANTS. 1 MILE TO CMU/PITT/HOSPITALS.
DAILY, WEEKLY, MONTHLY LEASES
5405 FIFTH AVENUE 
PITTSBURGH, PA 15232
(412) 441-4444
http://tig.com/Pittsburgh/

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 4 November 1996
ByJASON ANDRACKI
\Tartan Staffwriter
i Paula Cole’s second release, 
'(This Fire, hasn’t left my CD player 
¡since I bought it on October 15. 
¡This disc is a masterpiece from 
¡the moment “Tiger” begins with 
¡only Cole’s voice to the fading 
¡notes of “I Don’t Want to Wait.” 
'This Fire is a more mature and 
-adventurous effort than her de- 
ibut, Harbinger, although equally 
-captivating.
Who: Paula Cole 
What: This Fire 
Company:Warner 
Brothers
' “Tiger” is the sequel to 
'Harbinger’s “Bethlehem” and it 
sums up the new confidence that 
jCole displays in this self-produced 
recording. It’s obvious Cole puts 
as much effort into her song-writ­
ing as she does performing. Cole 
is not merely writing songs to 
showcase her beautiful voice, but 
‘uniting them as a true storyteller. 
Songs like “Where Have All the 
Cowboys Gone?” and “Throwing 
Stones” have all the qualities of 
great short stories. Although it 
seems Cole is revealing a private 
part of herself to her listeners, 
she contradicts that in “Me” in 
which she sings, “I am not the 
person who is singing, I am the 
silent one inside.”
' Cole shows her aggressive side 
bn her second release without 
compromising her sincerity. She 
breaks up the rage of “Throwing 
Songs” and “Mississippi” by put­
ting the lullaby-like “Carmen” be­
tween the two of them. The vari­
ety of songs explains why I can 
listen to this CD over and over.
!• Many people were first exposed 
to Paula Cole though her vocals 
on Peter Gabriel’s Secret World 
Live, a release mandatory for any 
Gabriel or Cole fan. On “Don’t 
Give Up,” Cole outshines Kate 
£ush, who performed the origi­
nal backing vocals on Gabriel’s 
<§o. Gabriel returns the favor by 
adding his haunting voice to 
‘ftiush, hush, hush” on This Fire.
Gabriel adds the perfect compli­
ment to the song without upstag­
ing Cole.
Although she doesn’t appear 
on the disc, Sarah McLachlan 
has influenced Cole on this album.
© 1996 Warner Bros. 
Paula Cole’s latest release, This 
Fire, has a more mature sound 
than her previous release.
“Hoad to Dead” could fit perfectly 
on one of McLachlan’s releases. 
Cole will be joining McLachlan on 
tour once again as part of the Lilith 
Festival, which will showcase other 
female performers like Aimee 
Mann and Lisa Loeb.With the 
popularity of female singer- 
songwriters like Natalie Merchant 
and Melissa Etheridge, Cole’s This 
Fire could be a breakthrough al­
bum. My sole complaint about this 
disc is that the lyrics were not 
included, but actually that just 
encouraged me to listen even 
closer. Cole hopes in her postscript 
to the liner notes that This Fire 
sends the listener on a journey 
and that is exactly what she does.
For more info on Paula Cole 
visit http: 11 cpcug.orgI user / 
titusb /pcolel.
* * * * * ¦¥¦ * * •¥¦ * -r- * * * * *
*
*
* .
*
“MISS PENNSYLVANIA USA™ PAGEANT”
Miss
USA*
Official
USk$aye(Mb
NO PERFORMING TALENT REQUIRED
If you are an applicant who 
qualifies and are between the ages of 
18 and 27 hv February 1,1998, never 
married and at least a.six month resi­
dent of Pennsylvania, thus college 
dorm students are eligible, you could 
be Pennsylvania's representative at 
the CBS-nationaliv televised Miss 
USA® Pageant* in February 199S to 
compete for over $200,000 in cash 
and prizes. The Miss Pennsylvania 
I'SA Pageant for 1998 will be pre­
sented at the Palace Inn. Monroeville. 
Pennsylvania, March 1 & 2.1997. The 
new Miss Pennsylvania USA, along 
with her expense paid trip to compete in the CBS-nationally televised Miss 
I'SA Pageant, will receive over S2.000 in cash among her many prizes. All 
ladies interested in competing for the title must respond by mail. Letters must include a recent snapshot, a brief biography, address and a phone number. WRITE TO:
MISS PENNSYLVANIA USA PAGEANT y Cmem Production1Xc/o Tri-State Headquarters - Dept. CA Celebrating over347 Locust Avenue, Washington, PA 15301 20)«reof
Tri-State Headquarters Phone is (412) 225-5343 ’5j'rJ^*ulh
CARA KENDRA BERN0SKY
Miss Pennsylvania USA^
Application Deadline is December 14, 1996y, 'Miss USA" Pageant Is par! of the Madison Square Garden Family.Miss Pennsylvania USASU Pageant is "A C.arvern Production"-f-
* * * •¥• ¥ •¥• -¥¦ -¥¦ * * ¦
-f
-£
Carnegie showcases interactive artNew Album archives 
Grateful Dead music
By ERIC HOLOWKA
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
What occurs when you mix classic old 
style rock and roll with an arena filled 
with screaming fans? You get the Grate­
ful Dead’s new compilation album Dozin’ 
at the Knick. This new release, recorded 
five at a concert at the Knickerbocker 
arena in Albany, New York (March of 
1990), contains a series of classic Dead 
songs alongwith a series of remixed tracks 
reserved only for concert play.
Who: Grateful Dead 
What: Dozin’ at the Knick 
Company:
Certainly true Grateful Dead fans will 
identify with the homely and mellow vo­
cals of Jerry Garcia which are only cap­
tured to their fullest emotional value in a 
live performance. Songs such as “Terra­
pin Station” and “Dupree’s Diamond 
Blues” show Garcia’s 
sprawlingly melodra­
matic voice in a way no 
fan could.
Aside from the classic 
songs,Dozin’at the Knick 
offers a few remixes of 
famous Bob Dylan and 
Chuck Berry songs.
Tracks such as “Around 
and Around” show the 
ability of the Grateful 
Dead to cleverly redo a song in a fashion 
which sets it apart from wry, carbon copy 
’90s rock, and many fans may even find 
themselves singing along to it. One 
dissappointing factor that I found with 
this compilation was with the classic Bob 
Dylan song “All Along the Watchtower.” 
The disappointment, however, lay not in 
the accuracy by which the Dead played it 
but rather in the fact that the Dead even 
decided to play it at all. The Dylan classic 
came to its status by the rough, forceful 
voice of Dylan himself and the Grateful 
Dead’s revision visits the opposite end of 
the spectrum with Garcia’s low, mellow 
vocals. On top of this, they complicated
the rhythm to the point at which it be­
came indecipherable, and thusly not as 
enjoyable as the remainder of the album.
One exceptional feature is that this 
compilation will appeal, for the most part, 
to the die-hard fan. Followers of the 
Grateful Dead from the late 1960s and 
1970s to the present will realize the accu­
racy at which they play their classic tracks 
‘Terrapin Station” and “Stella Blue.” In 
these songs, Garcia helps the band create 
a breathtaking number of musical twists 
and turns that take them from Baroque 
style counterpoint to an almost heavy 
metal appeal.
Another complimenting feature which 
helps to carry this album above previous 
Grateful Dead compilations is its feature 
of a live performance. No other group in 
rock and roll history can carry and unite 
an audience the way the Dead do. This 
live performance allows the average lis­
tener to hear the wild and crazy moments 
of a Dead show, hinted at on the second 
disc in songs like “Drums,” to the calm
and melodramatic points such as “Goin’ 
Down the Road Feeling Bad” and “Bro­
ken Palace” which sets the emotional 
stage for the listener.
Essentially, Dozin* at the Knick pro­
vides a well put-together variety of 
the finer moments throughout the 
Grateful Dead’s history. The true Dead 
fans will appreciate the continuity of 
melodies which brings the audience 
through their long career filled with 
trials and successes. Even the 
nonaffiliate will appreciate this al­
bum to the point where they can seethe 
archives of one of America’s most pivotal 
rock and roll bands.
“This live performance allows 
the average listener to hear 
the wild and crazy moments of 
a Dead show...”
By BECCA FRIBUSH
Tartan Staffwriter
’; Ann Hamilton’s 1984-1996 retro­
spective, “the body and the object,” 
at the Carnegie Museum of Art, is
¦ one show where you’re not only al­
lowed but positively en- 
couraged to play 
around with the art.
Hamilton’s multimedia 
works are highly inter­
active in nature and 
' and concentrate on 
making the viewer see
• ordinary things in new 
: ways.
The exhibit may not 
be big (most of it is con­
tained in one small 
room) but it conveys a 
clear mood. To walk
• inside is to be sur­
rounded by tranquility, 
with no sound other
r than the soft steady 
whirring of motors.
That’s right — motors.
Two of Hamilton’s 
works make prominent 
use of motorized 
sources of energy. Her 
“untitled (filament)” in­
volves a large piece of 
white organza fabric 
hanging from a circu­
lar motor on the ceil­
ing. The effect from the 
outside is like watch­
ing a twirling giant in a 
wedding dress. If you’re 
feeling particularly ad­
venturous, you can go inside the 
sculpture, and from there the view 
gets even more interesting, if slightly 
voyeuristic.
Another piece, “untitled (the ca­
pacity of absorption)” makes use of a 
hundred identical water-filled 
.glasses affixed to the wall. The wa- 
: ter in each is whirred around by an 
electric motor. Speaking into the 
microphone attached to the wall dis­
rupts the electric signals and causes
the magnets lying at the bottom of 
each glass to release energy. Through 
polar forces and energy, this creates a 
vortex of water. It’s an intriguing 
combination of high art and high school 
physics labs.
The companion piece to this one,
which shares the same title, is an­
other interactive work. The viewer is 
invited to place his or her fingers into 
the holes on a wooden table covered 
with a thin layer of water, then enjoy 
as the water drains over their fingers 
into the holes. Some of the works ex­
hibited here orginated as parts of more 
complex installations so while the 
parts of them we get to see are cer­
tainly remarkable, I couldn’t help 
wishing I could see them in context.
For example, t\yo works called “of­
ferings” were shown in the space. 
One was a glass case full of wax 
heads, the other a large pile of wax 
drippings. Only reading the materi­
als did I discover that the original 
“offerings” involves a whole three- 
story house in 
which she wired 
the case to melt 
wax heads, while 
the melted wax 
dripped onto the 
floor and down to 
the first and sec­
ond levels. (The 
floors apparently 
had quite a few 
cracks in them.)
Oddly enough for 
a show that relies 
so much on hands- 
on interaction on 
the part of the 
viewers, I found 
the impersonality 
of the exhibit dis- 
appointing. 
Hamilton’s works 
are all made from 
strictly mechanical 
processes, whether 
it’s the formation 
of the wax heads, 
the production of 
the glasses for the 
wall piece, or the 
motors. While the 
new and creative 
combinations into 
which she’s formed 
these mass-pro­
duced objects are fascinating, I 
missed a sense of the artist’s per­
sonal touch. Incorporating elements 
obviously produced by Hamilton her­
self would make her work even 
richer. But until she does this, I’ll 
be happy to play with the micro­
phone and the water glasses.
“The body and the object” is on 
display at the Carnegie Museum of 
Art until January 5.
Artist’s efforts make impression
DISPLAY
YOUR
Ann Hamilton's “the body and the object" is an interactive art exhibit on 
display at the Carnegie Museum of Art through January 5.
SUBMIT YOUR 
READY TO HANG 
ARTWORK FOR DISPLAY
CONTACT JUDY PRICE 
@ X8-1733 
AFTER 11AM
KENNETH NAMKUNO 
OR namkung@andrew.cmu.edu
be responsible for stolen or damaged material

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 4 November 1996Lil
DH 2210
C C C C C C C fpLg¦pg
movies you may have seen before....
By JOHN BIGGS
Thursday, November 7 
The Wedding Banquet
The Wedding Banquet is a motion picture about 
these two gay guys. One of the gay guys hasn’t told 
his parents that he likes men, so they keep trying to 
set him up with women and almost get his ass 
married. But it all works out in the end, the two guys 
get together and have a relationship.
It’s almost like drinking twenty-five beers and 
then telling the guy at the tattoo parlor that you 
want a picture of your Pekingese on your left but­
tock, except for the needles. See it with your analyst 
and your caterer.
At 7:30 pm, 10 pm, 12:30 pm
McConomy Auditorium
Friday, November 8 
Joe’s Apartment
I think a movie about monkeys that live in this big 
monkey world where they run and jump around 
(like Watership Down) would be a cool movie. There 
could be this great big head monkey that can maybe 
talk or have something special about him (like 
wings or a vestigial nipple) that makes him cool. 
Then these monkeys could save a boy on a raft. The 
boy could repay them by giving them a gun and the 
monkeys could wage war against mankind and it 
would be like Planet of the Apes or Taxi Driver.
But this movie isn’t like that. It’s about a kid who 
has a nasty apartment. Then this kid gets laid and 
these roaches rejoice. They help him save the build­
ing from demolition or something. Anyway, MTV 
did this one, so you know it’s good. See it with your 
favorite insect or hair-louse.
At 8 pm, 10 pm, and midnight
McConomy Auditorium
Saturday, November 9 
The Nutty Professor
Jerry Lewis gets, well, nutty in this exciting look 
at a scientific experiment gone awry. Lewis is this 
fat professor who eats this magic mushroom that 
makes him the sexy-ass Buddy Love who is cool and 
suave with the chicks. And then he rides in the 
Lovebug, and it all ends up pretty damn good. The 
French like it, so you should too.
But if the movie doesn’t do it for you, you could 
watch the telethon.
Ok, I’ll level with you: Eddie Murphy gets, well, 
nutty in this exciting look at a scientific experiment 
gone awry. Murphy is this fat professor who eats 
this magic mushroom that makes him the sexy-ass 
Buddy Love who is cool and suave with the chicks. 
And then he rides in the Lovebug, and it all ends up 
pretty damn good.
The French like it, so you should too.
At 8 pm, 10 pm, midnight
McConomy Auditorium
Sunday, November 10 
Phantasm II
Becky says:
See there’s these kids, you know, and they go out 
into the woods with 40s and pot and then the one fat 
kid falls down into this bottomless pit and the 
others kids don’t care because he was the fat one. 
Yeah, that’s it.
Well, see what really happens is there’s these 
kids, and then there’s this Tall Man who menaces 
them because they won’t give him any of their 
alcohol and so he unrelentlessly (that means with­
out stop) chases them and throws little stones at 
them until they all start crying. Then he decides 
that he doesn’t care to menace them anymore, so he 
buys property in Florida and wears his grandpap’s 
white shoes there.
Marlon Brando is not in this movie, but that’s 
okay. He would have been perfect as the fat kid 
though.
At 8 pm, 10 pm, and midnight
DH2210
Comic reveals personal confessions
ing Cartoonist and was a finalist 
for the Pulitzer Prize in 
Cartooning the same year, asked 
the question, “What was the worst 
thing you’ve ever done?” as an 
ice-breaker at parties, and then 
after being inspired by a book on 
workplace sabotage, decided to 
illustrate the answers to that 
question. What resulted was a
Comic Book 
Chronicles
£ e • e . . 4rxI0r11h 0eeBee 1 MB7eeM7 3B1 a
uy Jason AnordCKI graphic novel from NBMcontain-
A risky merge in traffic that 
causes a fatality, abuse of a 
neighbor’s pet, and a one night 
stand. These are not usual topics 
for a comic book; but then again, 
comics usually aren’t based on 
reader’s confessions. Cartoonist 
Ted Rail titled and based his lat­
est graphic novel on The Worst 
Tiling I’ve Ever Done!
Rail, who won the 1995 Robert 
F. Kennedy Award for Outstand­
ing 24 stories illustrated by Rail 
that he received from friends, by 
mail, and in response to his 
Internet post. In a world filled 
with tabloids and talk shows, it’s 
no wonder this book is bizarrely 
entertaining.
Rail was very particular in 
which stories he included. The 
typical fraternity pranks and in­
fidelities were passed over. The 
stories that made the cut are 
shocking and sometimes filled
with genuine shame and other 
times with no remorse at all. Of­
ten they are hilarious but most 
do have a confessional sense to 
them, as Rail states in his intro­
duction. Rail introduces each 
new story with a title and a 
pseudonym for its original au­
thor to protect the guilty. Per­
haps one of you, or someone you 
know, is in here.
Many stories have a genuine 
gruesomeness to them that on 
one hand is softened by the out­
landishness of Rail’s crooked-eyed 
characters, but at the same time 
made even more grim by the in­
human cartoons. Take Chuck’s 
“Mausoleum” story. At first it was 
amusing to see one weird-looking 
kid getting roughed up by a group 
of weird-looking kids looking for 
the grass cutters’ union, (no this 
isn’t Portrait of Jimmy Hoffa as a
Young Man) but when one. re­
members the truth behind the 
story, Rail’s abstract art makes Jt 
even more shocking and pitifull
I guess I’m a little disturbed 
that I enjoyed Rail’s book so 
much. There are some truly 
horrible true stories in the pages 
of The Worst Thing I’ve Ever 
Done! What drew me to this book? 
Shock value? Dark humor? What 
really intrigues me is that these 
aren’t criminals who committed 
these acts. They’re your frien.ds, 
your neighbors, the people you 
sit next to at church. These arie 
people who have had the courage 
to face the dark side of human 
nature and admit it. I hope they 
find peace through their confes­
sions.
Jason Andarcki is a senior pro­
fessional writing major.
Second release makes critic wheeze
By TOM LIN
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Have you ever heard the ste­
reotype about “the second one?” 
Basically, this theory states that 
the second of anything is never as 
good as the first — be it a movie, 
book, album, whatever. Fortu­
nately, this theory is not entirely 
true. Unfortunately, it is true of 
Weezer’s second release, 
Pinkerton.
had a naive, garage band feel cally every song on Weezer had 
about it that went well with its virtually disappeared. All in all, I 
rather innocent and quirky lyrics, was quite disappointed with the 
Weezer has apparently changed album. Just another flash in the 
much since those days, and has pan band, I figured, 
adopted, whether consciously or After a second or third play, how- 
unconsciously, a more somber, ever, the songs got better and bet-
Who: Weezer 
What: Pinkerton 
Label: Geffen Records
For those famihar with Weezer, 
the band is still made up of the 
same four band members: Rivers 
Cuomo and Brian Bell on vocals 
and guitars, Matt Sharp on bass 
and vocals, and Patrick Wilson 
handling the drums. There are a 
total of ten songs on Pinkerton, 
the same as on Weezer. It is 
here, however, that the simi­
larities end.
Weezer’s first, self-titled album
cynical view of 
the world. This 
more experi­
enced (read: 
less fun) view of 
the world can 
be seen right 
away in the title 
of the first song, 
“Tired of Sex.” 
This perspec­
tive is also re­
flected in the 
lyrics: “I’m
spread/ So 
thin/ I don’t 
know who I 
am.” Actually,
1996 Geffen Records 
Pinkerton is Weezer’s new album.
ter. Melodies 
and hooks 
appeared, al­
most magi­
cally. The 
lyrics began 
to make 
more and 
more sense. 
Best of all, I 
began to re­
alize that it 
was a much 
better sopho­
more effort 
than I had 
originally 
thought. Al-
the first time I played the album, though the album as a whole can’t
I barely knew who they were my­
self. Melody had apparently been 
left out of the album, the lyrics 
seemed rather forced, and the 
hooks that were present in practi-
really compare with Weezer, there 
are moments on Pinkerton that 
rival the band’s best. “Why 
Bother?” is a fast-paced, fun song 
that partly mourns and partly de-
nounces relationships. The great 
hook in “Across the Sea” will al­
most make you forget the sad and 
angry lyrics. “El Scorcho,” though 
it starts off slowly, has a great 
chorus and second half. Another 
gem is “Pink Triangle,” a humor­
ous tale of falling in love with thfe 
wrong person. The best song on 
the disc, however, is undoubtedly 
the last, “Butterfly.” Radically dif­
ferent from anything that Weezer 
has attempted before, the song 
shows what the band is capable of, 
and also reveals amature, thought­
ful side that is absent on much of 
the album.
Pinkerton is still rather disap­
pointing, however, and most of thè 
songs on it don’t reach the lofty 
heights ofthose from Weezer’s first 
release. This may be due to thè 
fact that Weezer produced it, re­
placing Rie Ocasek. That is not t^> 
say that it isn’t good; it just isn’t 
great. If you are a Weezer fan? 
however, it is definitely worth buy­
ing. And even if you’re not, thè 
album is worth a listen. For a 
sophomore effort, it really isn’t 
too bad.
lDfo FeIdes
s
She came bounding into 
one of our on-campus 
information sessions 
about a year ago. an engineering 
undergrad carrying a bag 
of dismantled hard drives.
"Look, " she said, and pointed out a 
subtle inefficiency in the servo mechanism, 
which to that day, only our top 
engineers had recognized.
Then she gave us a half hour lecture 
on how to fix it. and we told her about state-of-the-art 
labs; she launched into a monologue about data storage 
and what we should be doing about it. so we told her 
what we are doing about it.
VISIT 333hMUJtJ27heJShM1S
She said there's a lot of. work to be done, and we 
invited her to join us. and do it. And since then, she's taken 
storage technology to the Nth degree. Helped revolutionize 
how portable hard drives work.
Which brings us back to campus. This semester 
we're scouting the country again, looking for more 
spirited people and ideas. We're pushing this company 
to the Nth degree.
And you can take us there.
ATTENDInformation Night
Tuesday, November oK,ommZ, upm-mpm
LOCATIONRoom Ko,, University Center
DISCIPLINES Computer Science, Mechanical, Computer, Electrical,
Material and Chemical Engineering

---------------------------------------------------

hey E3ert! 
did the dranowork?
TODAY !S fill EVEN DAY
it's depressing 
because it's love— 
and it's not us
D.-
Keep striving to 
be a better King
-The P’s
'Dear 5cott.
(Happy 1fetik/!
—your loVer
romeo, o romeo
whele ni Grl 
lGmeG?
havelice?
You can advertise for free in 
The Tartan!
If you know of an event on or off 
campus that has relevance lo Hie cam­
pus community email auyoung@ 
andrew.cmu.edu or mail ¡1 lo Tho Tartan,
, box 17 in Ihe Carnegie Mellon Universily 
; Center by Ihe Wednesday before the 
¦ event.Vox Populi is a forum open lo the 
entire campus community! To submit a 
' vox, simply email it toauyoung@andrew. cmu.edu, send it to The Tartan, Box 17 
via campus mail or drop it in the Vox 
Populi drop box on the Tartan Server.
•Remember, the Vox rocks chicken' 
pox, jocks, pink socks, and Goldilocks.
4 November
dAi .i--ey• 'Byq7iT
3e22 E2BU dA7t/-BU BT 
u‘fjnoj ESn 
By- oK‘fj BS ey 
kMx1y1SU b7-eT1te7Sh
W1iv/ bEBtTSiyT 3e22 
E2BU Fte-BU BT 5noj ESn 
By- Se-ye•AT ey 
kMx1y1SU b7-eT1te7Sh
dAi 67TTU 4t1li//1t
3e22 E2BU VBT7t-BU BT 5n 
oj ESn By- Se-ye•AT ey 
kMx1y1SU b7-eT1te7Sh
4AByTB/S aa 3e22 E2BU 
V7y-BU BT 5noj ESn By- 
Se-ye•AT ey O0 KKojh
a2 41/Tey1 3e22 E2BU BT 
xBSEJi22 kiS1teB2 
xABEi2 BT xABTABS 
x122i•i 1y 61siSJit Ko 
By- KK BT u ESh
Birds, Basilisks, & Other Medieval 
Beasts, an exploration with instruments 
and voice of Medieval ideas about animals, 
will be performed by the Renaissance and 
Baroque Society on November 16 at 8 pm in 
Synod Hall. For more information, contact 
Polly McQueen at 682-5253.
Boy Sets Fire, Autumn, Puritan, and 
Chapter will be playing on Saturday at 7 
pm in the Connan Room in the University 
Center. This show is being sponsored by 
Tompkins Square Riot and the CMU 
Substance Free House.
The Fuzzy Comets will be playing at 
Common Grounds Coffee House at 5888 
Ellsworth Avenue in Shadyside on 
Saturday. The event is sponsored by the 
CMU Women's Center.
Heinz Chapel Organ Recital will be 
performed by Robert Sutherland Lord in 
the second in his fall series of recitals in 
Heinz Memorial Chapel at the University 
of Pittsburgh on Sunday at3 pm. Admission 
is free. For more information, contact 
Marilyn Locker at 624-4125.
Chauncey Upson Trio, a jazz band, will 
be playing at the Balcony in Shadyside 
from 9 pm till midnight on Noveihber 20. 
For more information, Balcony at 687-0110.
River City Brass Band will present “River 
City Celebration” on November 16 at 8 pm 
in the Carnegie Music Hall. For more infor­
mation, contact Bill Schlageter at 322-7222.
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra is pre­
senting Bruckner’s Fourth Symphony “Ro­
University CALENDAR
sports______
Football will take on Muhlenburg College 
on Saturday at 1:30 pm.
Women’s Basketball will start the sea­
son with the CMU Tip Off Tourney on 
November 22 and 23.
Men’s Basketball starts the season with 
the West Penn Classic on November 22 
and 23.
Men’s and Women’s Cross Country will 
next compete in the NCAA Regionals at 
Dickinson on Saturday.
Men’s and Women’s Swimming will com­
pete against Indiana University of Penn­
sylvania on Friday at 6 pm and John Carroll 
University and Grove City College on Sat­
urday at 11 am.
around town
Pittsburgh BusinessFest ’96 will feature 
Amy Skolen, president of Strategic Solu­
tions, on November 6 at noon and Novem­
ber 7 at 2 pm. Skolen will talk about “Maxi­
mizing the Profitability in Your Home- 
Based Business.” For more information 
about BusinessFest, call 1(800) 589-SHOW.
Diffraction Conference, sponsored by the 
Pittsburgh Diffraction Society, will take 
place from Thursday through Saturday at 
Mellon Institute starting at 9 am each day. 
For more information, contact Larinnina 
Wingut at 894-5652.
Women’s Sufft'age is being recreated at 
the Senator John Heinz Pittsburgh Regional 
History C en ter from N ovemb er 2-10. Actors 
will recreate some of the suffrage speeches 
by Pittsburgh women and visitors will be 
allowed to cast votes on the issue of suffrage. 
For more information, call 454-6000.
Schenley Ice Skating Rink is scheduled 
to open on Saturday. College ID Nights, 
admission $2 with ID, will be held on Tues­
day nights from 9:30 to 1:30 pm, Sunday 
nights from 7 to 9 pm, and Wednesday 
afternoons from 1:30 to 3:30 pm. Regular 
admission is $3. For more information, 
contact Tom Driscoll at 422-6523.
I 1 M 1
Pittsburgh Compline Choir sings Cho­
ral Compline in Heinz Chapel on the Uni­
versity of Pittsburgh campus eveiy Sunday 
at 8:30 pm. These services will continue 
until November 24. For more information, 
contact the Lutheran University Center at 
682-6886.
mantic” from November 8-10. On Novem­
ber 14, 15, and 17, PSO will feature guest 
conductor Zdenak Macal and pianist Jef­
frey Sigel in Liszt’s Concerto No. 1 for 
Piano and Orchestra. For more informa­
tion, contact F rank Catanzano at 392-4835.
Pittsburgh Chamber Music Society will 
present the Kalichstein-Laredo-Robinson 
Trio on N ovember 11 at 8pm at the Carnegie 
Music Hall. Tickets are $10 for students. 
For more information, call 624-4129.
theater______
Yuragi, In a Space of Perpetual Mo­
tion, a theatrical poem, is being presented 
by the Pittsburgh Dance Council at 
Benedum Center on Friday and Saturday 
at 8 pm. Tickets range from $16-$38. To 
order tickets, call 456-6666. For more infor­
mation, call 355-0330.
The Playhouse of Point Park College
presents Pinocchio through November 24. 
For more information, call 621-4445.
Happy Days will be presented by City 
Theatre from November 6-24. The director 
and cast are all CMU professors. For more 
information, call 431-CITY.
Pittsburgh Opera kicks off their season 
with Mephistofele running from October 12 
to November 24. For more information, 
please call 281-0912.
Holiday Dazzler is a package deal that 
combines a visit to “Toy Bop” and “Nut­
cracker” on the dates D ecember 26-30. Tick­
ets are $40 and limited. Advance purchase 
is required by D ecember 20. For more infor­
mation, contact Trish Beatty at 454-6372. 
To order tickets, call 454-9107.
museums
Pittsburgh Regional History Center pre- 
sents 'Toy Bop,” an exhibit of toys, dolls, 
and games from the 550s and ’60s which 
opens on November 15 and runs through 
January 6. For more information, contact. 
Trish Beatty at 454-6372.
Playback, a slide installation by Lorie 
Novak, will be on display at the Manches­
ter Craftsmen’s Guild Gallery from No­
vember 4 through December 2. For more 
'information, call 322-1773.
Second Annual Gala Open House in 
the Music and Art Department of the 
Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh will take 
place on November 16 from 10 am to 5 pm. 
For more information, call 622-3105.
GSIA Gallery is exhibiting a set of com- 
puter-generated abstract paintings until 
November 15. For more information, con­
tact Rich Young at 661-1190.
Fossils of dinosaurs and prehistoric crea­
tures will be available for Carnegie Mu­
seum of Natural History visitors to look at 
on Saturday. For more information, con­
tact Sandra Paul Lepri at 622-3361.
Boxes is an abstract work that will be on 
display at the Hewlett Gallery until No­
vember 24. For more information, contact 
Petra Fallaux at x8-3877.
reading
Beehive Reading Series. November 7: 
Denise Duhamel, David Newman. All read­
ings held upstairs at the Beehive Coffee­
house, 3807 Forbes Avenue. 8 pm, open 
mike; 8:30 pm, scheduled readers. For 
more information call 441-2859.
Common Grounds Coffee House: Fall
1996 poetiy reading series will feature Pat 
Dobler and Nancy Koerbel on Tuesday, 
November 5 at 7 pm. For more information, 
call 362-1190.
International Poetry Forum presents 
distinguished Darwinian scholar Philip 
Appleman, who will read from his New and 
Selected Poems, 1956-1996, on November 6 
at 8 pm in the Carnegie Lecture Hall. For 
more information, contact the International 
Poetry Forum at 621-9893.
on campus
Seed Grants are being offered by the Pitts­
burgh Tissue Engineering Initiative for up 
to $20,000 for six-month projects. Applica­
tions are due on November 22. For more 
information, call 383-9703.
Sexual Assault Round Table will take 
place on November 4 at 7:30 pm in the 
Adamson Wing in Baker Hall. It will be a 
discussion between Student Affairs, the 
Women’s Center, Campus Police, and the 
community at-large regarding CMU’s
m PPPO Novemberomm5
sexual assaultpolicies and procedures, with 
an emphasis on reform.
ADVOCAIDS will have its first meeting 
ever on Wednesday in the University Center 
Pake Room from 4:30-5:30 pm. The group 
will focus on promoting education 
prevention, and awareness of HIV and AIDS,
Sexual Assault Advisors is a volunteer 
group of students, staff, and faculty who 
meet regularly for training and education 
about sexual assault prevention. For more 
information, contact Kerri Ullucci at x8- 
2075. Applications are due November 15,
Potential Orientation Counselors 
should turn in applications to the Student 
Life Office in Morewood Gardens before 
November 11. For more information, con­
tact the Student Life Office at x8-2142.
Dynamic individuals who are interested 
in becoming Resident Assistants can at­
tend one of the following informal meet­
ings: Wednesday, November 16 from 6-7 
pm in the Pake Room in the UC; Thursday, 
January 6 from 6-7 pm in Donner Reading 
Room; Wednesday, January 22 from 6-7
pmin the West WingTVRoom; and Wednes­
day, January 29 from 6-7 pm in the 
Morewood TV Room.
Breaking Silence is a workshop on No­
vember 13 that will take a look at rape, the 
effects on victims, resources, and how to 
support those who have been victimized. It 
will take place in the West Wing TV Room 
from 6:30 to 9 pm with dinner provided. If 
interested, you must RSVP by Friday. For 
more information or to RSVP, email ku22.
lectures
Historian Martin Gilbert will be making
a guest appearance on Monday, November
4 at 7:30 pm in the Carnegie Music Hall. 
Gilbert will give a talk entitled “Highlights 
of the 20th Century: A Historian Looks 
Back.” This talk is part of the Three Rivers 
Lecture Series. For more information, con­
tact Dennis Ciccone at 622-8866.
CMU beat Rochester 42-6 last Saturday. They will take on Muhlenberg College this Saturday. Andrew McDermott/Tartan Managing Editor
Authority and Persuasion will be 
presented by James Boyd White, L. Hart 
Wright Professor of Law and Professor of 
English at the University of Michigan, at 
the Rhetoric Colloquium on Thursday. It 
will be from noon to 1:30 pm in the Connan 
Room of the University Center.
{
