Basketball Team Declares Itself NCAA Champs See SPURTS 
A HAT FOR GRADUATION.......SEE SUBVERSIONS
The Natrat
Volume = 4l^iar3Carnegie(dash)Mellon UniversityApril 1,1987
Cyrat’s biggest financial scam yet.
By FLOOSY McLOONYNatrat Editor-in-Grief
Warner Hall is still reverberating with the 
shock waves caused by the latest revelations 
in the secret IBM stock sales deal. The Cyrat 
administration has been accused of 
clandestinely selling IBM stocks to the 
University of Pittsburgh in order to covertly 
fund the Colleges of Fine Parts and 
Hospitalities & Social Appliances here at 
Camegie(dash)Mellon University.
Controversy erupted over the deal because 
it apparently broke the administration’s own 
declared policy of not aiding CFP or H&SA. 
Cyrat is still largely denying that the deal 
ever took place. "We do not now and never 
have dealt with artists or funded departments 
that foster creativity. And we don't torture 
rabbits either."
I Cyrat explained his role in the IBM stock 
sales deal before the Trustees investigating 
committee. When specifically asked if he 
approved the sales, Cyrat said, "Gosh. I just 
can't remember. Let me think back. I 
remember looking for the mate to my argyle 
sock this morning. And I remember I had
stewed prunes for breakfast And last night, I 
watched Bob Newhart reruns. But heck. I 
just can't remember those dam stock sales."
The details of the deal are still murky, but 
at this time, it appears that it was the 
mysterious cloak-and-dagger Vice President 
Creeswine who arranged the deal. The stock 
sale allegedly took place at the same time as 
Creeswine's appointment to the board of 
directors of previous, a start-up computer 
company headed by boy wonder Dirty Jobs. 
When asked if there was a connection 
between the two deals, Creeswine said, "No. 
Huh-uh. No way. Absolutely not Nope."
The stock deal was exposed when radical 
elements at the University of Pittsburgh 
leaked information to the press. Upon 
learning of the leak, Creeswine was heard 
saying, "Why those meanies. I thought they 
were nice guys, and then they went and ratted 
on me. I thought we were pals. Gee-wiz."
Tracing the steps of the deal will be 
difficult because Creeswine's secretary, 
Bubbles Beegwans, apparently tore up some 
of the sales records into little tiny pieces.
continued on anudda page...go find it yerself, why doncha?
Security Retrieves the Big Orange Thing
y RUSTY PELICANNatrat Reproductive Manager
CMU Police were at a loss for a while
Monday morning when it was reported that 
the big orange thing in front of Wean Hall 
had been stolen.
CMU Chief of Security Ralph Bambino 
told The Natrat that the first he knew of the 
theft was when a Computer Science student 
reported it early Monday morning. "He said 
he had pulled seven straight all-nighters 
during Spring Break, and had just recently
“We always get our orange 
thing...”
finished his program for 15-212. He was 
stumbling home and he said he fully 
expected to walk right smack into the thing, 
but instead just fell on the ground. Then he 
called us."
At press time, the student was unconscious 
and unavailable for comment
When asked about the strangeness of the 
crime, Bambino responded, "You know, 
people steal that orange thing more often 
than you think. It’s usually the fraternities or 
irate professors. We usually recover it before 
morning, though, so no one ever noticed 
before."
CMU and Pittsburgh police scoured the 
scene of the theft for over two hours before 
the User Consultant on duty in Wean noticed
photo by the Norwegian Ninny
Bask etbelT b mDcter IDc mbcfNe rCA cCe etNhNpS C(dash)MU President Dick Cyrat remarks to Pitt's Chancellor Woolly Poptart at the opening of 
the Pittsburgh Center for Great Big Useless Objects. Here the happy couple is shown 
at the Pet-the-Magnet exhibit __________
Brad on Acid
orange streaks in the ground leading up the 
steps of Hamerschlag Hall. A group of 
twenty armed men then entered the building 
with instructions to "grab anything that 
looks orange."
The sculpture was later found in the Clean 
Room in the basement of Hamerschlag. 
Officer Lionel McAbee describes how he 
stumbled across the subject of his search: "It 
was the only orange thing in there."
In his statement to the press, Bambino 
announced, "We always get our orange 
thing, regardless of its shape."
Also found in the Clean Room were 
several boxes of severed body parts, and 
cocaine with a street value of $10 million.
No arrests were made.
By DRUZILLANatrat Booze Editor
Last Thursday, four students were 
hospitalized for what appeared to be 
ingestion of LSD. Two of the students, both 
freshman males, were found staggering 
around the Morewood Gardens D-tower 
laundry muttering "Cyrat is the best thing 
that ever could have happened to 
Pittsburgh..." Another student present 
became immediately suspicious and reported 
them to Security. When Lt Inna Stupor 
arrived at the scene, both students were at the 
desk demanding a refund for tokens, claiming 
the dryer failed to work when one of them 
had climbed into it and the other had tried to 
run him through the permanent press 
setting. Stupor handcuffed both students, 
after scolding them for setting the dryer on 
permanent press when they were both 
wearing 100% cotton shirts, and escorted 
them to the hospital. After various tests, 
doctors concluded that the students had 
consumed an indeterminate quantity of LSD. 
The other two students were found in Hunt 
library, drawing mustaches on pictures of 
famous composers in the Fine Arts rare 
book room and singing and dancing in the 
elevators to the theme from "The Brady 
Bunch."
Dean of Student Affairs Brad Falters, who
Brad says:
Give me those drugs hDcte fCPpppl
photo by Jack off PoUenate 
Wardrobe provided by Botany 500
became immediately concerned sometime 
during the following Monday afternoon, 
released the following memo to students.
A Warning to All Students: Recently it has 
come to my attention that we are faced with 
another drug problem on our campus. The 
culprit is once again D-Lysergic Acid 
25: BAD ACID - -1 hardly got anything out 
of it Did I say that? I mean, I've hardly 
gotten any information about it Yeah, 
that's what I meant And the trip wily lasts
20 minutes - talk about bad acid! WHOA! I 
remember the old days...I could go 5 hours 
before I'd peak! I mean, not me personally, 
but those twisted, aimless, acid-gobbling 
hippie types who never bathed. Nope, not 
me, I never touched the stuff. I just hung out 
at my fraternity ancL.uh, never mind.
Anyways, this new stuff is awful. 
Horrible. Shameful. I mean, all drugs are 
bad, of course, but this batch is particularly 
nasty. 20 minutes, and all I saw - um, I 
mean, the students who took it - all they 
saw was President Cyrat doing the Rhumba 
with a blow up doll on a table in the faculty 
dining room. Hee, hee, actually that’s pretty 
amusing - especially the part with the grapes - 
oh, never mind.
It is a standard policy of Carnegie Mellon 
that illegal drug usage will not be tolerated. 
At least not among the students. If you, or 
anyone you know, comes across these or any other drugs, you are urged to turn them over 
to the Student Affairs office, where the drugs 
will be subject to extensive testing by our 
own in-house pharmacology experts. Due to 
the nature of this offer, my office will 
remain open 24 hours a day until the end of 
the semester. In fact I'm going to move into my office to better accomodate the needs of 
the student body and get as many drugs as 
possible. Get them away from the students 
and into the hands of, ah, of the, um, proper 
authorities, of course.
Remember. DRUGS ARE YUCKY, 
DRUGS ARE BAD,
GET ALL YOUR DRUGS 
AND GIVE 'EM TO BRAD.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—The Natrat—April 1, 1987
Martini Talks About New Dorm: Reagan House
By DONG ABLE
Natrat Spurts Idiot 
C-MU Housing Director Lonely Martini 
disclosed the latest plans for the new 
dormitory yesterday night at his annual 
"Shangri-La Shindig." The dorm, slated for 
construction sometime between tomorrow 
and 1998, will be treated as a "Special 
Interest House”, available to a group of 
students with similar interests. As an 
attempt to enforce strict housing rules and 
regulations, a problem of the department's 
past, a full-time Housemother will be 
employed to live in the house and supervise 
all residents. Also revealed were some 
architectural plans for the building, including 
the proposed cafeteria facilities.
The dorm, to be named "Reagan House", 
will closely resemble a typical three-family 
house, complete with running water and 
closets, and able to accomodate 300 
residents. It will be available to Consevative - 
oriented students, in an attempt to teach the 
residents values which the Administration 
feels have been forgotten, such as 
neighborliness, studying, and celibacy. The 
Housemother, Retired WAC Lieutenant 
Alphelia Buttox will be in charge of making 
the students understand the importance of 
these ideas.
"It will be a dirty job, but someone's got 
to do it," said Buttox. "Kids today are handed 
everything on a silver platter. As a result 
they've become ignorant, disrespectful, and 
just plain homy. I aim to set them straight. 
When I'm through, you'll see a bunch of 
God-fearing Adults in the Commencement 
ceremony, not a bunch of mescaline- 
popping, beer-swilling Assistants to the 
Antichrist"
Buttox plans on a system of "mutual 
respect between Housemother and Tenant".
An integral part of this system will be "the 
Chair", a way for her to get to know what 
her kids are up to. In this system, each 
student will be required to sit with "Auntie" 
(as she prefers to be called), and listen to her 
tell boring stories about the things on her 
wall for at least 10 minutes daily. Then the 
students give a detailed account of their 
activities of the past day, while Auntie 
blows cigarette smoke continuously into the 
their faces. This way, she feels, the residents 
will fear her and obey her every command. 
An occasional bum with the cigarette butt is 
Auntie's option.
"It has worked before. On me! My parents 
brought me up this way, and to this day I'm 
still a virgin, drug-free and happy as a pig in 
its own feces. I've got every brain cell I was 
bom with. I can count them all on my left 
hand!"
Martini supports Buttox. "We're all just 
animals you know. But not her. She's an 
animal trainer!\ She's perfect! We’ve wanted 
this for years, a program which would teach 
these people what being a human is all 
about. They're obviously not taught at 
home."
There was some apprehension by the 
students at the Shindig however at the 
designation of the dorm as a special interest 
house. A major concern was the opinion that 
300 Conservatives with similar interests 
would be difficult to find.
"Nonsense," said Martini. "I can give you a 
list right now a list of 300 Conservative 
students at this school who like to drink 
water, eat and go to the bathroom. So there! 
PLLLLP!! Don't worry, it's really well 
planned."
As well as this news, other plans about 
Reagan House were released. The
continued on page 3
Our scholarship programs 
won’t make college easier.
But they will make you 
wish you went to Lynchburg 
Community College.
Are you the type who likes to wake up in the 
morning, do 2 hours of calisthenics, go on a 20 
mile hike, shoot a little target practice, dig a 
trench or two, take a cold shower with 50 other 
guys, and then eat breakfast?
If so, we can show you what it will be like, and 
we can guarantee you a place when the time 
comes.
BE WHAT WE SAY YOU SHOULD BE.
Model of the Reagan house (above) and Auntie Buttox with “the Chair”.
A Touch of Newark in Pittsburgh
m
Or
Next time you sneeze, 
don't say "Gesundheit."
Say Uinnies.
Recognized all over the world as a decent place 
to get meat.
Try our new Uinnieburger!
One full pound of...well, if we told you it 
would ruin the surprise, now, wouldn't it?
Uinnies
Jour Sneezes Ulistorante
Don't call us — We'll call you

---------------------------------------------------

April 1, 1987—The Natrat—Page 3
Cyrat Sells H&SS
Proceeds to Fund Parking Lot
Ur RhDH FO GNA.NA.NA.NA.
Natrat Hellraiser
In a surprise WCRT address, President 
Cyrat revealed Wednesday that he had sold 
H&SS to the University of Pittsburgh for an 
undisclosed amount. This announcement 
confirmed rumors that surfaced a week ago in 
a small Pitt newspaper. Cyrat acknowledged 
that the first transfers of humanities were 
made last January, but denied that the 
transfer was to pry the supercomputing 
center from Pitt. Instead, he insisted that 
C(dash)MU was trying "to make contacts 
with moderate elements at Pitt."
After the address Dean Lox held a press 
conference in the Ferret Room to disclose 
that she believed that the proceeds of the sale 
had been used by Lt. Col. Oliver Rogers to 
purchase part of Schenley Park for a parking 
lot. She was not sure how much money 
was involved, but she had located the serial
By SLASH VAN MANN
Natrat Third Reicher
Officials recendy announced the start of a 
joint venture between CMU and the Nine 
Planes of Hell. The project, tentatively 
called "Carnegie Malice," will provide 
telemetry for the Legions of Hell, enabling 
them to more effectively promote 
corruption, death, and destruction throughout 
the world community. "We saw what a 
good job CMU's been doing with SDI, and 
thought, 'this is the place for us,"' said Bill 
Mephi-stopheles, spokesman for Hell 
President Satan. "CMU seems to 
concentrate more on VICE than VIRTUE, 
and that's a big win."
CMU President-for-Life Dick Cyborg is 
equally pleased. "CMU stands to gain a lot 
from a liason with such a prestigious, 
familiar institution." Privately, however, 
Cyborg sees the Carnegie Malice project as a 
way to recover from the failed venture with a 
similar organization, France, a few years 
ago. "Mistakes were made," admits Vice- 
Pervert "Obtuse" Angle Airjordans. "Jon- 
Jack Scurvy-Scribbler wanted to buy Apple 
Macintoshes, but [French President 
Francois] Eatandrun wanted to rely on 
French technology. As a result, we had
numbers of two Mellon Bank accounts that 
she thinks Lt Col. Rogers used for the sale.
Mayor Richard Corruption expressed his 
outrage that evening in a statement. "I am 
saddened by this attempt to circumvent the 
wishes of the city council. C(dash)MU 
knows that the city expressly had denied any 
attempts for the University to gain parking 
spaces." He added that he would start 
hearings into the entire affair.
The next day Cyrat revealed that he knew 
nothing of the parking deal. He also blunted 
criticism from other college presidents about 
his decision to sell H&SS. "The humanities 
we sold were old anyhow and only took up a 
megabyte."
The Dean of H&SS was unavailable for 
comment because no one in the 
Administration was quite sure who the Dean 
of H&SS is this week.
difficulties adapting the software to run on 
computer hardware based on French bread." 
Asked whether the conversion of two 
computer-generated paintings given by 
Cyborg to Eatandrun into Christmas 
wrapping paper had anything to do with the 
souring of the deal, both Cyborg and 
Airjordans declined comment 
Some groups have spoken out against the 
joint venture, concerned about a faculty brain- 
drain, as well as moral implications. A 
spokesperson for the SVCF, the San 
Fernando Valley Christian Fellowship, 
remarked, "Fer shur, totally, untubular, barf 
gross out. Pitchforks are no way-cool. Bag 
that Satan." Cyborg, however, feels more 
practical matters should be taken into 
account. "Of course, we're here to promote 
learning, but that's no reason for students to 
act as if they paid to come here," he 
asserted. "And with all that trouble with the 
Vatican Bank- well, you go where the 
money is." A protest Tuesday came to an 
abrupt end when demonstrators gathered 
inside the UCC heard a loud, rough voice 
bellow, "GET OUT! GET OUT!" "Those 
beings from the depths of the Abyss," 
remarked Cyborg with a smile. "The 
paragons of efficiency."
cont.
architectural contract has been granted to the 
firm of Thump and Crudd Associates, whose 
bid of a year's supply of Tartan Egg Muffins 
and the leftover Jello from the Kiltie every 
night was the lowest received. The firm 
claims to have seme revolutionary ideas 
about the dorm.
"We've adapted the 3-family style for three 
reasons," said Thump and Crudd Public 
Relations Manager Bill Shitter. "It will 
provide the desired atmosphere for the goals 
of the house, it will fool the City tax 
assessors into thinking that it's just a house, 
so CMU will get off cheap, and it's built 
extremely frailly, so that housing can soak 
the students for things that break by 
themselves. I should add a fourth reason, that 
the maintenance required will be large so as 
to keep Physical Plant employees busy in 
the off-season, when they aren't spreading 
horse shit all over the campus. It's really 
well planned."
One of the more anticipated aspects of the 
dorm is the dining facility it will contain. 
It's design was assigned to none other than 
CMU architectural genius Stew Pud. Pud
found me, dincha? tink yer pretty smart, huh?
"Well, like I don't really know why I did it," 
Beegwans explained, "I just, you know, like, 
well like, if you want to know the truth, I 
guess it was, like, you know, an accident. I 
really menat to file them."
Reaction among college deans is split. The 
deans of H&SA and CFP are satisfied with 
the deal. The two colleges have been steadily 
losing favor with the Trustees, but the deans 
see this as an opportunity to try a little bit 
harder and win back the hearts of the big 
guys. Dean Macrame Bikini of CFP has 
already named a few of the changes that will 
take place. "Well first of all, all of our 
students will be learning to program in at 
least three languages. Sculpture will be 
merging with robotics. And the big project, 
the one we're all really excited about is the
commented on the concept
"It's inspired by the Hansel and Gretel 
story, really. It’s always been my favorite. 
You see, the exterior will be completely 
constructed out of candy. That's right! Isn’t 
that wild! We figured, hey, UDS profits are 
(town by twelve grand, yet the Bookstore and 
Coop are cleaning up, right? So the kids 
must be chowing junk food, right? Well, I’m 
a firm believer in 'Give the people what they 
want' philosophy. All they'll do is push a 
tray around to what they want, then hand 
over their ID to the cashier. We've got 
chocolate shingles, licorice steps, and all 
kinds of stuff. It's really well planned."
A Natrat Reporter questioned Pud on the 
rumor that he had been taking kickbacks 
from local dentists, but no comment was 
given.
Martini ended the Shindig by hinting at a 
few other possibilities for the dorm, such as 
a Pentecostal Chapel, a small Monastery, 
and a dungeon for probation students. "I 
won't make any promises though," he added. 
"I wouldn't want to disappoint anyone, 
ever."
spring musical. It will be a tribute to the 
creation of the Andrew computing network 
here on campus. "Andy's Dandy” is the 
prospective title for the work. Bikini feels 
that there is plenty in the Andrew system to 
inspire a musical. "We think the window 
manager idea for one thing is a particularly 
visual aspect of the set-up and that will 
probably inspire one of the big 
choreography numbers," he explained.
H&SA will also be pursuing programs to 
court the favor erf the Trustees. Several 
courses will be added to the core, including 
Inside Trading Processes in American 
Business Institutions, Fashion Influences: 
Choosing the Right Car, the Right Tie, and 
the Right Drink, Origins of the Cocktail 
Party, and Entrepreneurship: An Introduction 
to Squeezing Out the Little Guy.
HEY!!!
Yeah, I'ma talkin' ta you, linguini-brain! Dis ain't fer real. Yeah, 
dat's right, dis isa da Natrat - y’know, da April Fool's Day issue. 
Parody. EC VCfo fCfub rCAoT eb=N fC CyyNfTNk TDfHN PN 
VCf’ mNbf fCfNk N.TN mr HCATDf iDffDNk Vb gDTeChbfeANhk 
tDm bf tDT PbDeNhT bucCffb nbr rCAoT b wDTDe TCmNeDmNO 
(CPk VC rCAlT cArT AffNhTebflk Ch Ptbld
So you vant to be a spy, eh?
Ur RhDH FO GNA.NA.NA. Agency Liaison Artemis GUr RhDH FO GNA.NA.NA.Natrat Stuffwriter
The Libido Ballroom will be the site for 
the first annual Counter-Intelligence 
Opportunities Conference (CIOC). 
Chairman Roger Aquiline explained the need 
for such a conference. "C(dash)MU has a 
BOC for management majors and a TOC for 
engineering and science majors, but what 
about the students who want to go into 
espionage?" Aquiline met secretly with his 
committee which is trying to recruit 
agencies to come to C(dash)MU.
"We've got most of the big names - the 
CIA, the National Security Agency, and the 
Defense Intelligence Agency but we've 
trying to get other excellent employers that 
would normally skip Pittsburgh." Aquiline 
says it is hard to get spy networks which 
recruit mainly at Georgetown and around 
Boston to send an agent to C(dash)MU.
Agency Liaison Artemis Gordon, a 
Computational Linguistics major, is "trying 
every contact and backchannel link" he 
knows to encourage agencies to pay the 
$100 fee to participate in the conference.
"We've got to make C(dash)MU be 
distinctive in the field... we have to stress 
the benefits of hiring a computational spy," 
says Gordon. "Unfortunately, sometimes 
it's hard for the C(dash)MU difference to 
come through on a resumé or transcript" 
Gordon referred to a University policy that 
prevents students who work on classified 
research from receiving academic credit for 
their efforts.
The Conference will be held April 31 with 
over thirty intelligence agencies attending. 
These range from Israel’s Mossad to Britain's 
MI5 to corporate computer spies. Aquiline 
encourages "all juniors and seniors interested 
in being James Bond to attend."
Rumors (R-U-M-O-R-S) of New Computer Reach C-MU
By DRUZILLA
Natrat Rumormonger
A new workstation from a leading 
computer company (that we won't name 
but you'll probably figure out anyways) 
may provide serious competition for 
existing workstations. Swaddled in 
secrecy and not due for public release for
2 months, the workstation codenamed 
POUGHKEEPSIE is already making 
hackers wet their pants with rumors of 
its specifications.
Sources within the computing 
community who sounded honest alledge 
the POUGHKEEPSIE (nicknamed 
POOPSIE by the company producing it) 
to be more advanced than existing 
machines largely because it has “some 
unbefuckinglievably huge amount of 
memory.” Claiming he first heard about 
the POOPSIE in a men’s room at 
Newark Airport, one source told the 
Natrat “It's gonna bury the - what? It’s 
already dead? Oh, never mind.”
The POOPSIE is rumored to be an 
open architecture machine with as many 
slots as the user requires. A 6000 palette 
color monitor is standard. Memory 
alledgedly includes 37 megs display, 
106 megs RAM, 106 -1 ROM (for 
those of you who can't make up your 
minds), and a whole bunch of megs for 
the disk drive. It also runs on 2 AA 
batteries and fits in the palm of your
hand.
Comparitively speaking, a POOPSIE 
would operate about Jx(x-l)edx times 
faster than a Smackintosh-Minus and 
have a screen resolution 100 
gogglewillies greater, meaning it could 
design a thermonuclear device, copy a 
Picasso and sell it for millions while 
running your VCR with cable and make 
coffee in the morning. Realize, of course, 
that we aren't insinuating anything by 
comparing it to the Smack-Minus: I 
mean, not like you-know-who is putting 
it out or anything like that..
Cost to the public will be around 
$40,000. However, one source claims 
that C(dash)MU students will be able to 
purchase a POOPSIE through the 
computer store on Valiswine and still 
have enough left over to buy 3 pieces of 
yummy Tartan chicken and a medium 
coke for dinner.
Rumor also has it that the only 
POOPSIE in existence is on the 
C(dash)MU campus. No reports have 
confirmed this yet although we’ve 
noticed a rather large bulge in Dick's 
pants lately.
Please be aware that most of the 
information contained in this article is 
out-n-out hearsay (our favorite kind). No official info has been released yet from 
anyone. But hey, when have we ever 
printed a rumor you couldn't trust before?
C-MU Signs with Satan

---------------------------------------------------

Page B—The Natrat—April 1, 1987
Bitchings of the Student Senate
Present: Boston, Christina, Cluck. Tin, 
Friedham, Beerstein, Greenbug, Hausfrau, 
Combread, Bates, D. Levee, E. Levee, 
Lewis, Clark, Kemosabe, Tonto, F. Levee, 
Lulu, Martin, G. Levee, H. Levee, Maxell, 
Monkeysee, Rapalot, I. Levee, Dulle, 
Pastri, J. Levee, Sheerluck, Staccato, 
Staresalot, K. Levee, Suburbanski, Best, L. 
Levee, R. Murdoch/ W.F. Buckley, J.B. 
Briggs, R. Rogers, D. Evans, Trigger, R. 
McDonald, M. McCheese, C. McNugget; 
Muff, Puff, Fluff, and Algernon.
Absent: Bendy (executed), Shapley
(executed), M. Levee (still breathing). 
Ex-officio Members: Gramma Cox,
Chu, DeLeon, Bedbug.
Absent: The Big Brad Wolf.
Audience Participation: Are you
kidding?
Gramma Cox: Met with Brad the other
night Over drinks, in my apartment. 
Touched upon matters of interest.
President: Jim Bedbug: Yeah, well, I'd
just like to say that..I feel really good 
today. I mean, like, really good about...life, 
and all that stuff.
SDC: Ahh Chu: Housing Director
Teeny Martini continuing to enforce new 
policy on alcohol in dorms. From now on, 
nothing alcoholic, fermented, carbonated, or 
made with yeast or sugar will be allowed in 
dorm areas. Housing also eliminating non­
alcoholic punch they used to provide for 
parties in case anyone gets any funny ideas. 
Martini also made employees promise to 
eliminate the word alcohol from their 
vocabularies, and to turn the other way when 
anyone else says it, to keep consistent with 
Housing's current policy concerning 
fraternities and alcohol.
IFC: Ponce DeLeon: Geek Thing in
March was a great success. $4.20 was raised 
for charity. Remaining $4195.80 will be 
used to buy Geek Thing '87 T-shirts for all 
involved.
Parking Committee: Schlep Boston:
Had meeting with Neighborhood Assoc.'s
and Oscar Mayer. Residents angry at 
existing parking situation and not interested 
in helping CMU out. Mayer angry at his 
mother for his name. Two parking proposals 
being looked into: 1) One-level parking 
platform above Forbes Ave. 2)Multi-level 
parking garage on existing site of CFA 
(Administration claims studios are just 
wasted space anyways, and could easily 
accomodate 3 Toyotas, 2 Buicks, and a 
Hyundai each). Other proposal passed to 
have Mrs. Mayer publicly flogged for poor 
judgement in naming her son.
Chairman: Dave Beerstein: Started
working on plans for Info. Booth for 
Carnival. Open to suggestions, 
propositions, postulations, invitations, and 
anything else you can think of. Buy me a 
drink.
Treasurer: Ponce DeLeon: Money.
Money, money, moneymoneymoney: By 
God, I love money!
Academic Affairs: Norman Bates:
Met with Mil Philler concerning issue of 
students being forced to perform sexual 
favors in order to pass 15-111. I have no 
problem with this, and we all got A's in the 
course, so what's the big deal? It's a dog-eat- 
dog world out there, and you have to get 
ahead any way you can. In future, students 
will be given blindfolds, if they ask nicely. 
Committee will be meeting to discuss the 
way FECES are being distributed.
Campus Affairs: Green Cornbread:
Met with President Cyrat concerning 
funding to improve library facilities (new 
furniture, carpeting etc.) He giggled. 
Discussed issue of increasing amount of 
'student space-
including ScotchGuard, student offices, and 
renovation of Grey Matter. He giggled, and 
rang for his secretary. She came in and 
giggled at me. So I left Met with Bin 
Jammer to discuss extension of Gym hours. 
Gym will be investing in medieval torture 
equipment that will be available to all 
students.
APhooeyO presents.Stuffed Stuff!!
Beginning today and lasting much longer than necessary, APhooeyO 
will set up little tables all over campus and sell things that nobody really 
wants or can afford. Items include: Stuffed animals, stuffed stockings, 
stuffed cabbage, stuffed peppers, stuffed turkey, stuffed shirts, stuffed 
shrunken heads, stuffed road kills, and stuffed rocks. Send one to your 
sweetie! In fact, send 'em ALL to your sweetie - chances are, if you go 
for this sort of stuff, your relationship was in trouble from the start.
...also...the all-new Stuffed Sweetheart
Just like the old one, only different! Yes, for a nominal fee, our 
professionally trained APhooeyO big-game hunters will shoot and stuff 
your mate! Perfect for framing! Preserve the memories! Why grow old 
together - she'll just turn into a bitch, and nag you until you want to kill 
her anyways...
Two more pointless APhooeyO Services
Funding & Recognition: Tamale
Monkeysee: Motion to allocate $12,000
to BA Tech in order to purchase colored 
lightbulbs for their next dance. Motion 
passed. Motion to allocate $48,000 to 
Bacteria Club to purchase electron 
microscope. Motion passed. Motion to 
allocate $25 to football team to buy a new 
football, since old one was stolen at end of 
last season. Motion failed.
Public Relations: Sardine Tin:
Looking into forming a committee to study 
ideas for potential plans for Suggestion 
Boxes in dorm areas. Checks for SS 
uniforms, helmets, and staff cars are needed. 
Rules: Alien Greenbug: I don't know 
what’s going on, but I object to it.
Old Business:
Senator Bates: Move to reinstate the
funding of the Prudent Onion with the 
stipulation that they contact in writing the 
New Yak Times Department of Rights and 
Royalties to pay the New Yak Times a 
designated fee for the reproduction of the 
article entided "The 1972 Pillsbury Bake-off 
Winners: 5 steps to easy, luscious brownies" 
reprinted in the Feb. 25th, 1987 issue of the 
Onion.
Senator Staccato: I encourage diversity 
and a wide variety of recipes on campus. We 
should give them their funding back but we 
should also handle this situation like adults. 
I say we spank them.
Senator Monkeysee: The Prudent
Onion is making an attempt to be 
responsible. We should spank them after 
giving them back their funding.
Senator Bates: We should stick to the
issue on the floor. Spanking can be 
discussed afterwards.
Senator Best: Move to vote on motion 
that is chi the floor. Motion passed. Move 
to give the Prudent Onion back their funding 
under the terms listed above. Motion 
passed. Motion to bring Student Senate 
Apolitical Speakers’ Forum Board onto 
floor. Motion passed. Motion to pass Forum
Board as amended. Motion passed. Motion
to end all domestic strife, free all political 
prisoners, cease all fighting in the Middle 
East, lower food prices, end government- 
sponsored farm supports, abolish taxes, raise 
the speed limit, and name me Emporer of the 
galaxy. Motion passed.
New Business:
Senator Bates: Move that the Student 
Senate executive committee draft an apology 
to the Prudent Onion concerning the poor 
handling of the issue of the PO's reprinting 
of the New Yak Times article entitled: "The 
1972 Pillsbury Bake-off Winners: 5 steps to 
easy, luscious brownies" in the Feb. 25th 
issue of the PO.
Senator Greenbug: When we have an
allegation to make against a club we ought 
to paint the fence and hang great big signs 
over Doherty and Baker and post on all the 
bboards so they'll know of the accusation 
before it is brought up in the meeting. 
Motion to have Student Senate write an 
apology to the Prudent Onion under terms 
listed above. Motion passed.
Motion to nominate Senator Riccota 
Staccato as representative member to speak 
at Senior commencement Motion passed. 
Points of Discussion:
Announcements: Heads will be emptied 
this week. Extra copies can be found in 
office.
Committee meetings:
Parking: Comer of Forbes and Beeler, 
Wednesday at 5 pm.
Rules: Steam tunnels, whenever you feel 
like it
PR: Tuesday, 3:17 am, janitor's closet on 
1st floor, Weenie Hall.
Academic Affairs: Dick's place, Friday 
evening. Cocktails served at 6pm.
Meeting Adjourned: Finally.
Pregnant? And you didn't mean to be? 
Well, now, that's just your problem, isn’t 
it you little tramp?
Birthplight: 555-SLUT
$NoStar Pizza® COUPON$
1 free pizza. Large. With a topping. Aw hell, you kids work hard - make it 
two. Two free large pizzas with toppings. And cokes. Two cokes. No, wait, 
make it six. A six-pack. Of beer. OK, two free large pizzas with as many 
toppings as you like and a six pack of beer. Delivered free, in 30 minutes or 
less. Then again, you've probably got better things to do than wait for pizza. 
Make it... 15. 15 minutes or less.Or we pay you. $10. No, wait make it 
$20. $20 if it ain't there on time. And you can kick the driver, if it makes
you feel better.
Dr. Ina Stein
Electroshock therapist 
Student discount w/ ID
2210 Doherty Ave. 
Pittsburgh, PA 15-312
Did you know... that tgpe smaller than3 points is very difficult to read and could cause permanent damage to gour eyes? Korn don't you geel like an asshole for ruining pour eges trging to reed this shit?
)mnChebfe MbHeT RwNhrCfN 
EtCA.V :fCPO
See Mars...Jupiter...Alpha Centauri-5. We’ll pay for the gas.
The Irritation Program gives you the opportunity to meet with alumni and B ^ _
share your experiences. Bother them in the privacy of their own homes with 
personal questions (like: why would anybody go to college for “Home Ec” 
or “Library”?) while you subliminally make them feel guilty enough to donate 
more. Yet, you don't have to deal with the money - you're just there to pry.
If you work on our phonathings, you get to interrupt hundreds of people's 
dinners with annoying phone calls begging for money while remaining annonymous. Sound like fun? You bet. Best of all, you get paid to do this.
A shitload. Gas money, food money, dry cleaners money, parking ticket 
money...whatever you want. The Irritation Program is now hiring for the 
summer. Want more info? Call Dave Baloney at x6905. But you better 
hurry...areas are being claimed faster than the universe is expanding. Yours 
might be gone if you wait too long.
The Irritation Program. Really, we don't want your 
money. Really. We just want to bother you.
1* Irritation Program

---------------------------------------------------

The First Realistic Film About Iranscam: Buffoon
By BRUISED CASSEROLE AND 
PESTLY MISSIN*Natrat Tag-Team Champions
Oliver Norf is fast becoming one of 
Hollywood's most prolific directors. Earlier 
this year he directed the box office smash-hit 
El Salvador: Those Commies Down in the 
Jungle, one of the most outrageous movies 
of the season, on a paltry budget of 
$100,000,000.00. After a tiff with studio 
executives at Warner Sisters, Norf decided to 
fund his latest movie, Buffoon, by selling 
autographed Bibles (signed by the film’s star 
Lyndon LaDouche). Norf raised over 40-mil 
so he could finally produce this lifelong 
dream.
The semi-autobiographical epic chronicles 
the real story behind our country’s ill-fated 
Iranscam project. Norf gives the audience a 
behind-the-scenes look at emergency cabinet 
meetings and attempts to explain the reason 
why we traded arms for Hostesses. As the 
President (LaDouche) explains in the film's 
first few minutes "America is overcrowded 
with Little Debbies and Dolly Madison's, we 
need our Twinkies and Ho-Ho's back on 
American soil."
In an emotional address to the American 
people, the President vowed never to deal 
with snack food terrorists, a promise that 
seemed to be carved in stone due to his 
recent diet. Little did the public know that 
our president was planning a covert action to 
regain our precious lunch-box resources. The 
movie focuses in on the tension-filled 
backyard cabinet sessions that culminated in 
the controvesial decision to trade arms for 
Hostesses.
One highlight of the picture is finding out 
exactly how resources for the project were 
collected: giant arm-wrestling tournaments 
determined whose arms would get to go to 
Iran. Needless to say, competition for this 
honor was fierce and these scenes provide 
some of the best action sequences in the 
picture. Sylvester Stallone makes a cameo 
appearance as a contender for arm-glory, 
uttering his now-famous line, "Yo Adrian!" 
although Adrian fails to appear.
The film garnered an R rating as a result of 
a steamy nude scene featuring Fawn Hall 
(played by Martha Rae: Denture Wearer. 
Miss Hall performs an erotic escapade with a 
paper shredder as she gleefully destroys ream 
after ream of damning evidence. Her 
performance will no doubt gain her an 
academy award nomination in the category of 
best use of office equipment
While the arms-for-Hostesses plan 
originally seems fool-proof, it becomes 
evident as the movie continues that 
something fishy is going on. Enter Dead-
President Reagan (wearing helmet) consults his cabinet members in a covert backyard meeting
win Fleas, the snoopy attorney general 
who uncovers the shocking fact that much of 
the money being made from the swap is 
being funnelled to the struggling Frito-Lay 
organization. Congress had recently refused 
to offer the organization monetary assistance 
due to a particularly repugnant new Dorito 
flavor, rhubarb mint. This blatant disregard 
for Congress' decision raises all sorts of 
unpleasant questions regarding the president's 
integrity which remain unanswered even after 
the movie is done.
La Douche's performance as the befuddled 
leader of our great land truly enters genius 
territory as he grows more and more 
forgetful. Questions from the investigative 
Rower Commission become probing and 
insistent, causing the president to contradict 
himself time and again. He constantly refers 
to white house chief of staff Regan as 
Reagan, and himself as Regan. This 
highlights an interesting subplot of the 
movie. Fancy Reagan and chief of staff 
Regan are actually involved in a torrid love 
affair.
Of course George Busch is not left out in
Sly Stallone powers his way into arm immortality
the confusion: nobody ever remembers, portrait of a clueless President, it takes a
including Busch, who he is or what he is turn for the worse in the final moments as
supposed to be doing. He just wanders each of the cabinet members abandons ship,
aimlessly through the White House This leaves only LaDouche and his soliloquy
proclaiming,"I could have been a contender." which is nothing more than, "I can't recall"
Although Buffoon gives us an interesting muttered over one hundred times.

---------------------------------------------------

Page D2—The Natrat—April 1, 1987
The NATRAT proudly presents...
The Multi-Purpose Graduation 
Hat—Condom—Spot-A-Pot
Contact Lenses in an hour... or else
Dr. Joey's House of Contact Lenses
If you have a vision problem then Dr. Joey is your man to correct your 
eyesight to a perfect 20/100. Even if you don't have a seeing problem, DrJoey will correct your eyes in an hour. It's painless and fast. No 
forms, no waiting, no pain, no choice.
Just call up and make an appointment with Vinnie, the receptionist, at our 
convenience.
Address: Dr. JoeyHis Place
Nowhere, PA 10010 
Phone: well call you
just Follow the instructions on page D5
Condom
Spot-A-Pot
Comic Extravaganza Hopes To Raise The Dead
STUPID THEATRE THIS WEEK is brought to you by the Department of
Trauma
March 18 
A BILL OF ONE ACTS 
directed by Bill
By A. PANDA CLONE
Natrat Sex Therapist
Tonight our own Skibo Ballroom will 
witness the greatest comedy event of the 
century. Yes, this surpasses the first filmed 
pie-fight. It surpasses the first dropping of 
the duck on "You Bet Your Life." It 
surpasses the Purple People Eater. It 
surpasses the invention of the arrow-through- 
the-head. It even surpasses the day they took Thicke of the Night off the air. Tonight, 
seven-hundred and nineteen of America's top 
comedy stars will shine together in the 
world's first combination comedy show and 
seance.
The idea for a combination comedy 
concert and seance first arose in 1984 as an 
effort to communicate with the spirit of 
Andy Kaufman, a mysterious comedian who 
died mysteriously under mysterious 
circumstances. His agent recalls the effort 
vividly. "We got a bunch of Andy's friends 
together. I wanted to talk to him to iron out 
a few contract problems....he still had two 
more appearances on Letterman to do when 
he kicked off. We got some knocks on the 
table and all, but we were all pretty sozzled 
anyway so I’m not sure."
Do the comedians expect to hear from 
Kaufman tonight? "We thought we might 
talk to some biggies," said one 
spokescomedian. "I'm hoping for W.C. 
Fields or someone big like that." Among the 
comedians expected to perform are Robert 
Klein, George Carlin, Bette Midler, 
Gallagher, Howie Mandel, Monty Python, 
Steve Allen, Dave Allen, Ron Darian, Jeff 
Justice, Richard Lewis, The Royal Canadian 
Air Farce, Jerry Lewis, Joan Rivers, Doug
Ferrari, Robin Williams, Stiller and Meara, 
Nichols and May, the Conception 
Corporation, Harry Anderson, Jimmy Krenn, 
Rosanne Barr, Louie Anderson, the Second 
City, Sam Kinison, Bobcat Goldthwait, 
Dana Carvey, Jerry Seinfeld, Whimsical 
Will, A. Whitney Brown, the Flying 
Karamazov Brothers, Leo T. Baldwin, Buddy 
and Betty Rubbish, Elaine Boosler, David 
Letterman, Gilda Radner, Alex Cole, Murph, 
Rodney Dangerfield, Yakov Smirnoff, Bill 
Cosby, Sky Sands, Fozzy Bear, the 
Monkees, Peter Cook and Dudley Moore, 
Eddie Murphy, George Bums, Ellen 
DeGeneres, Taylor Mason, Barnes and 
Barnes, Judge Reinhold, and others.
The performers plan to form a line from 
the stage in Skibo Ballroom to the basement 
of Morewood Gardens which will serve as a 
dressing room. Each comedian will get two 
minutes to perform. Emcee "Weird Al" 
Yankovic has the task of keeping the show 
rolling until the seance at the end. "If we can 
get it together this will be the greatest, most 
Earth-shattering, phenomenal event this 
miserable little school will ever see!!" he 
muses. Assisting Yankovic in comic-herding 
will be comedy Disk Jockies John Doe, Kim 
Alexander, and Doctor Demento.
After all the comedians have had their 
turns onstage, the lights of Skibo will be 
dimmed for the seance. Because of the 
number of comedians involved in this part of 
the production, only 150 students will be 
able to stay in the Ballroom to see it, so 
hold on tight to your seat Rumor has it that 
they will be employing Freddie Blassie and 
Andre the Giant as bouncers for the show. 
The comedians will all hold hands and chant
a mantra passed down from generation to 
generation. That mantra has not been 
officially released, but inside sources report 
that it will sound something like this: "Taa 
eekma....taa eekma....taa eekma waaf 
pleeeesssss....pleeeeeessss....."
If the seance is a success, remaining 
comedy fans may see, hear, or just sort of 
feel encore performances by Abbott and 
Costello, Myron Cohen, Danny Kaye, 
Lenny Bruce, John Belushi, Groucho Marx, 
Charlie Chaplin, and perhaps even the 
elusive Andy Kaufman. If the comedians 
can’t contact anyone, the AB Tech crew will 
go up and play with the lighting so we'll 
think there's ghosts or something.
And to think we almost lost this show to 
Pitt. Yes, the method for choosing the 
location for this monumental comedy 
concert/seance was a simple lottery, with 
every college in the country entered for an 
equal chance. Wouldn't you know it, when 
they drew out the card for Carnegie Mellon, 
Pitt’s card was stuck to it with a piece of
March 9 & 10 — 8:30 pm 
THE ORAL EXPERIENCE: THE ADVENTURES OF 
TOMMY TOOTHBRUSH 
directed by William Shakespeare
bubble gum. AB head Anne Whichway and 
the head of the Pitt Programs Counsel 
settled the dispute in a spectacular arm 
wrestling match. It only seems fitting that 
the logo for the event will be a graphic of 
Whichway’s fist punching a clown face.
Since the comedians are performing on a 
strictly volunteer basis, this event is not 
funded by your Activities Fee. AB 
Coffeehouse head Mallory Nillawafer 
expressed her deep gratitude and exitement 
when she found out about the event this 
morning. "Yeah, it's pretty neat, I guess. We 
don't have to pay?" she marveled. "Doesn’t 
sound really bad, I don't think." Because no 
one is providing any sort of money or 
funding for the show, all the performers will 
be stuck in Pittsburgh for the night with 
nowhere to go. If you have some space on 
your floor and would like to house a 
comedian for the night, write to Dick Cyrat 
to discuss temporary living arrangements for 
wayward funny people.

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Page D2—The Natrat—April 1,1987
Blow Job Goes to the Ballet
By BLOW JOB BRIGGS
Drive-In Ballet and Symphony Critic
Last weekend while I wus watching re-runs 
of The Brady Bunch, my bimbo called me up 
and started sayin about how there wus this 
great concert down at Hienz Hull that night 
and that she wuld give anything to go. I 
never pass up the opportunity to have an 
anything kind of evening so I asked her wut 
was the scoop. Some German guy, Herbert 
Von CarryOn, wus in town for a special gig 
and he wus goin’ to be conductin' my all- 
time favorite Drive-In Ballet "The Slime- 
Gloopla Vomit Dances." Like I said in 
previous articles, "Slime," ranks a perfect 
100 on the Tutu Fu meter so I had to go.
I got in my Strech-pickup and went down 
to the Hull. It was a mob scene. People 
bitin the heads off of small animals, 
fomicatin' in the asiles, and all the other 
good stuff that goes on at an event such as 
this. Before the ballet, the Pittsburgh 
Syphilis Cacophony performed Wolfman 
I’mADayUs Mozart's Symphony No. 
3.14159 "The Pi Symphony." When the 
concertblaster came out an gave his usual 
one-note solo, the audience booed him off 
the stage. It was goin' to be a rough night 
for the Cacophony.
This wus their fifth match against Von 
CarryOn and the team has had little success 
in the past. Like most American 
Cacophony's, Pittsburgh could not compete 
with VonCarryOn's two-handed cue method. 
Just like most of them foreign types, 
VonCarryOn has no pride or manners. Usn' 
both his hands to cue the ensemble and 
beat'n time on the music stand with his 
private parts. Von CarryOn caused the 
Cacocphony to stray from their gameplan. 
At one point, the entire woodwind section 
was palyin' the wrong piece. The cacophony 
did try one new manuever that did hinder the
maestro. Called the "three-point squeeze-em- 
in-the-balls-play" (allowed under the new 
rules), the leader of the violin, viola, and 
cello sections all converged cm 
VonCarryOn's sexual metronome. The had 
him for a few measures, but he escaped 
without serious injury.
This dazzled the crowd, especally the 
women in the audience who could not 
believe how much Von CarryOn has grown 
artistically since his last visit
The match featured some of the best 
Embrochure Fu I have ever seen and some 
really good fighting between the brass and 
the precussion. The lead trumpet player had 
to leave the match on a game misconduct 
penalty and was forced to play "Mary Had A 
Little Lamb" four times. But the excitement 
of the match was nothin' compared to the 
second part of the double feature.
"Slime-Gloopla Vomit Dances" is always a 
crowd pleaser cause it is choreographed by 
the most revolting directors in all ballet, 
George BalanceSheen. Famous for its 
PasDaDues that are a total bloodbath and 
suicidal leaps from the top of the building, 
"Slime" is his masterpiece. Starting off with 
an evil scientist who experiments with 
Cheese Whiz, everything gets out of control, 
and soon we have a bunch of guys runnin' 
around in pants so tight you can tell what 
religion they are and the bimbos are turned 
into submissive, big-breasted, sex-fiends 
who's only purpose is to make the sound of 
the twenty-valve tuba.
Sure it sounds like a lot of the Drive-In 
ballets, but BalanceSheen does put in a few 
twists to make the story unique. The play is 
set in a farm community so we get some of 
the best Gratuitus Farm Animal Mutilation 
every staged for the ballet At one point, the 
women used their steel-reinforced ballet 
shoes to totally disfigure a pig. Of course
the crowd went nuts -every time the lead 
female, Wanda "Wonder Thighs" Wilkins, 
took a chicken and proceeded to rip its' lungs 
out, the hard way. The male dancerrs then 
took the guts and made 20 piece Chicken 
McNuggets party packs.
Besides the rude gestures and chanting, the 
audience sucked. I sat next to Roy Bilbunny. 
President of STWOCDSP (The Society of 
Those Who Only Cough During the Soft 
Parts) and he let a tremendous mucus buster 
of a cough during th oboe solo and the row 
in front of us almost had to cash in their 
flood insurance policy.
What we got here is 200 breasts. 100 dead 
bodies. 100 Gallons Blood. Head Implosion.
3 dead chickens. 5 pregnant cows. 12 
mutated dogs. Suberb attack goat effects. 
Excellent gaint blow-up doll humping. 99 
on the vomit meter. Tutu Fu. Tofu Fu. 
Tuba Fu. McNugget Fu. Circumcision Fu. 
Groin Fu. Vital Organ Fu. Investment Fu. 
Token Ring Fu. Ameoba Fu. Gratuitious 
steel beam through the head. Drive-In Ballet 
Academy Award Nomination for Wanda 
Wilkins, the evil scientist's sex slave, for 
crushin' walnuts in a most unusual manner; 
Jimmy "Macho Man" Savage, the evil 
scientist, for sayin " Gee I wonder what will 
happen if I take the the Cheese out of 
Cheese Whiz and use the Whiz to light my 
barbeque;" Liza Mentalcase, the dancer who 
kills a cow while balancing on her breasts, 
for havin' a chest that doubles as one of the 
toughest ski resorts in Vermont; George 
BalanceSheen, the most demented man every 
to study Professional Shampoo Bottle 
Writing, for creatin' the greatest ballet ever; 
Herbet VonCarryOn, the well hung 
conductor, few usin' the One-Eyed-Monster to 
stop Wanda Wilkins from failin' into the 
audience. Four Stars. Blow Job says check it 
out
Blow Job Said It Would
At Forbes This Week....
(C fNP NvtDIDek IAe etN cb..Nhr DT DfTeb..Dfc b fNP TNHAhDer TrTeNm3 IhNb= etN HtbDf bfV PNo.. THhNbm gRLG .CAVO

---------------------------------------------------

Car
i
Remove the center spread 
(page 7 thru 10) from the 
paper, placing it with page 7 facing as shown below.
Directions for THE HAT!!
Step 1Step 2Step 3
The CMU Computing Center is proud to present...
Fold on the Rope so the$60, 
and the 000 meet on the 
opposite side. The Carnegie- Mellon logo should form a 
perfect triangle as shown 
below.
Now fold up the lower edges to form a brim. One side 
should read "Soon the own a BMW” and the other "Wait Listed at MIT." If Doc Cyrat 
gets mad at you for wearing 
the hat during commence­
ment, just flip him the finger - 
your're outa here anyway
4ll^ il la^ r 3IH
THHli AMDGtlW 
IMUrWO
• Are you always sitting at a 
computer terminal on week­
end nights?
• When you see an attractive 
person of the opposite sex do 
you exclaim "Wow, look at 
that User Interface” or "Oh, 
man those icons are humon- 
gous" or "I'd like to jump 
her/his Math Co-processor"?
BEFORE: These guys never had a date for the weekend, instead they just sat around
and made rude gestures to the User Confusers in the computer clusters IT you answered yes to any Ol
these questions then the new 
Andrew Computer Dating 
Service might just be the an­
swer to you dating woes. This 
unique, experimental, inane, 
stupid, expensive, wasteful 
service is provided free of 
charge to anyone on campus.
Just Type:
@ Finger Someone
• Do you call your computer 
"The Cutest bunch of RAM 
chips I ever had the pleasure 
of manipulating"?
on any Andrew terminal and 
fill out the questionnaire and 
you're on your way to an 
evening of pure exctasy.
Remember to include your 
high score on Rogue.
HAci denitd Ai IIT
AFTER: A happy couple go for a relaxing picnic on the scenic banks of the Lipari 
Landfill in Pitman, New Jersey (The #1 Toxic Waste spot in the U.S.)

---------------------------------------------------

NUKE8’RUS
Here at Nukes ’R Us, we are dedicated to providing the people with the 
highest levels of radiation our Congressional bribes will buy us. Since we 
have to generate an output level near the danger level, we are looking for 
only the brighest and the best college graduates in the country. The 
opportunities at Nukes ’R Us are varied and challenging — everything 
from mopping up the radioactive water to training the 12-headed monster
for it's Circus career.
Interviews held 24-hours a day 
For more information call: 555-1212
Come an visit our plant and experience the 
famous Touch-Me Reactor Exhibit, just like 
the students pictured above
Our tour guide, Judy (see photo at right), will 
show you around the plant and will give a 
demonstration to show you why she is known 
as the " World's Strongest First-Grader”

---------------------------------------------------

April 1, 1987—The Natrat—Page D7
9lair Occident Salon
fulfilling all your beauty and 
insurance litigation needs...
IHair Accident
UDc zbeNd )mnChebfe )feNhwDNPd GCC= b PhNH= PDet Cf.r CfN wDTDe eC etNOOO
Haircuts with towel dry: $15.00
Haircuts with Blowjob 
(chair adjustment optional): 
$25.00
We also do:
facials
toejam extractions
breast hair removal
air filter change and lube jobs
circumcisions
Twinism Abound in Star Trek V
By I. M. NOTREKKIETartan Expendable Redshirt
William Shatter, in a recent exclusive 
interview with The Natrat, revealed much of 
the plot of Star Trek V, currendy scheduled 
to be released Christmas 1988.
"I pitched this story idea for Star Trek IV," 
says Shatter, who will not only direct and 
star in Star Trek V, but will write the 
screenplay as well, "but they were all set on 
this whale thing. But when plans came for Star Trek V, Paradox decided they would 
much rather go with my story idea than to 
shoot the movie without a Captain Kirk."
In Star Trek V, the Boobyprize and her 
crew will journey through an uncharted 
region of the galaxy and encounter a strange 
space cloud. The Boobyprize will attempt to 
outmanuever the cloud, but an unknown 
force will draw them towards it. Passing 
through the cloud will cause every 
crewmember to become infected with an 
alien virus that will change their physical 
appearances. "They will all become Captain 
Kirk lookalikes," Shatter explains. When 
asked how he thought of such a novel 
storyline, Shatter confided, "I've always 
known I could do a better Spock than 
Nimrod. And [James] Duhhey and [Walter] 
Kmart aren’t the only ones who can do funny 
accents."
Executive Producer Gene Roddenapple is 
also optimistic about the new venture. 
"Sure, doing Uhura will be a challenge, but 
with the right makeup and costuming I think 
it'll make a great showcase for Bill's talent"
As a further test of his acting ability, 
Shatter has decided to make the disease 
highly contagious. He will also play the 
roles of the evil Klingons and of every
person living on earth. For this film, 
though, the Paradox special effects men will 
have to redesign the Klingon physique. "I 
refuse to wipe axle grease on my face," 
explains Shatter, "and I don't want them to 
stick styrofoam in my forehead."
By assuming most of the starring roles 
himself, Shatter will be responsible for 
eliminating a large part of the cast James 
Duhhey, who played Chief Engineer Scott in 
the television series and four previous 
movies, was one of the first to be told he 
would not be appearing in the film. 
"[Shatter] called me up and said 'Jim, a very 
important scene in my movie calls for 
Scotty to fiddle around in the Jeffries Tube, 
and we both know you can’t fit anymore. So 
take a hike.' Can you believe that? The nerve 
of him!"
The man who portrayed the Boobyprize's 
Chief Medical Officer, DeFerret Kelley, is 
equally disturbed about Shatter's tactics. "He 
invited me to lunch, you know, like a friend. 
Then he spent the entire time practicing his 
lines. 'He's dead, Jim. He's dead, Jim. I'm a 
doctor, not a Rabbi.' It drove me crazy!" But 
from his hospital bed, Kelley admits he's 
relieved at not having to act in the film. "I'm 
real tired," he explains. He is currently 
recovering from osteomorganus, a disease 
associated with extreme age.
But not everyone is displeased with 
Shatter’s plans. "With Nimrod, Kelley, 
[George] Takeoff, and the others out of the 
picture, well save loads of money," predicts 
Paradox spokesman Wudyu Nokitov. "Since 
we only have to pay Shatter, we can cut 
almost 25% out of the budget under the 
'Actor Salaries' heading."
When asked what he thought of the new
:Dh= 'FD..Dbm EtbeeNh—
UCfNT 'FD..Dbm EtbeeNh—
plans, Walter Kmart, who would normally 
play Chekov, responded only with, 
"Cossack!"
The only other cast member who would 
comment was Leonard Nimrod, who said, 
"Just wait until I host Saturday Night Live 
and we do a Star Trek parody! Well see if 
Shatter is laughing then!"
And what does Shatter think of the 
reactions of his one-time co-stars? "I don't 
know why they're so upset. They all know 
that I'm the best actor of the group. And 
besides, the story revolves around me. I 
wrote it that way."
Plans for Star Trek VI have not yet been 
announced.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12 —The Natrat—April 1,1987
Announcements
zDH= Wrhbe will have open office windows 
for students between 3 and 5 pm on 
Wednesday April 1 in his office, 602 Warner 
Hall. Students with QPA's of .5 or below are 
welcome any time. Students with higher 
QPA's are required to telephone his secretary 
at 268-69RT to set up an appointment.
,.bernATTNTk Paints, Pixels, Percussion 
Instruments, Pens, Paper, Pastels,
Persimmon, Pregnancy, Prophylactics,
Propeller, Prosopopoeia, Prelateship,
Predestination, and Potassium Permanginate 
Exhibit. The ways that our world is 
predetermined to predominate precariously in 
the ever changing modes of present 
parenthood. Exhibit designed by Peter
Preposterous. Schmunt Library, 13th floor,
precious postcard room.
UAc.N EHDNfHN WNfeNhOBatter - Up. A new addition to the popular 
new exhibit, 'The Right Move." This 
exhibit explaines the newest methods of 
batter frying disgusting leftovers and the best 
positions to assume, and gestitations to make 
while cooking.Laseriad. Journey to death. The first and 
only chance you will ever have to be killed 
by actual laser beams. Bring your friends, 
free target practice.
Classified:
Lost: One woman's virginity. Last
seoi listing around some wild CMU dorm 
party. If you have any info, PLEASE call 
Bubbles at x6969.
Lonely but caring Hacker wants 
female hacker for interfacing. Must have at 
least 512K, all the associated peripherals in 
good working order. Must be willing to 
engage in both hardware and software 
integration. Serious applicants only. Box 
HACK, CMU.
WbhfNcDN aN..Cf ?bm W.AI sponsoring 
Ham Fest and Field Day on cut. Hams of all 
shapes, sizes, flavors, species, etc. will be 
on display for photographs and tasting. 
Also, try your hand at catching, killing, and 
cooking your own ham/pig/whatever they are. 
Thursday, sometime this month. Just listen 
for us.
Backwardness Cy ,hNTNhwbeDCf etN yCh 
ECHDNerO Behind from and backward 
everything do we. Sometimes us Cry. Sunday 
every Skibop behind meetings.
VISIT LIBYA Intensive summer program 
focusing on the military and foreign policy. 
Subjects include Terrorism: The proper way
to blow up an embassy, Dictatorship or 
Democracy: Who will rule the world?, and
our favorite, by far, How to have fun on 
spring break while dodging bullets. Modified 
American plan available. For more 
information, write P.O Box DIEAMERICANS, 
Libya
GCTe3 One house referred to as Schmech
House. Well, it's not really lost yet, but 
we’re sure it will be sometime in the near 
future. Rumors about nuclear waste facilities 
or something.
Info? Call 1-800-THE SCHMECH
For Sale: One Big Orange Thingy. Cheap.
Call x6999 and ask for Thor.
Events:
1 Wednesday
Movies
Schlakespeare's Schlamlet A new and
unique rendition where all h's are replaced by 
Sch. Directed and produced by Will
Schlakespeare himslef. He'll be on hand for 
autographs and T-shirts to the kiddies. 7:30, 
Globular Theatre, Strafford on-upon-around- 
beside-next to the damn AVIN River, England
^Thursday
Workshops
Academic workshops focusing on all aspects 
of classroom life. Seminars on: Sleeping
without anyone noticing, sleeping while 
disturbing the entire class, taking notes from 
your friend who is asleep, taking notes while 
you are asleep, how to take an exam in your 
sleep and almost pass, and a host of others. 
Thrusday, 4:00 am, DH2210.5 (in the hall).
Special Events
ECmN nCCh T.CI UDC.CcDTeoT GNHeAhN 
ENhDNTk IbH= Ir nCnA.bh VNmbfVk 
Ywb. ,NbIhbDfoT ECHDNer yCh etN 
,hNwNfeDCf Cy WhAN.er eC RO HC.D
(ASPEC). This announces it's second 
gathering (since no one showed up to the 
first). Dedicated for the specific purpose of 
banning the further use of the bacteria E. coli 
for any purposes on the basis of cruelty to 
living organisms. We do not, however 
support all other liberal causes aimed at 
undermining the establishment (unless it's 
Carnegie space Mellon's.) Second meeting, 
Thursday April 2, 1987 12:00 noon, in the 
steam tunnels under CFA, just like last year.
3Friday
Stuff
What? You expect there to be things going 
on for you Friday night? Well if you can’t 
find a date, party, study group, or somethiing 
better to do on a Friday night, you don't 
deserve to be at Carnegie Mellon.
Serving: Scrapple, Vegetarian Scrapple, Monterey Jack Vegetable Scrapple Bake, Scrapple Quiche, 
Lima Bean Funnel Cake, Ratatouille Cider, Corn Mush Jello— ist vunderbar goot!! For authentic 
atmosphere no electricity, only bowls of smoldering lard—what you can't see, can't hurt you
Movies
Top Guns. "One of the best action movies
of 1987..." Natrat Fluff Editor. 'Top movies
of Year ... action, thrills, good music. Story
of young man growing up in the military. 
Takes on entire Apache indian tribe himself 
and with his new repeating rifle, single 
handedly saves the west and earns the title, 
'Top Gun". 7:30 and 12:00, DH 104
4 Saturday
Lecture
ENv bfV gNnhCVAHeDCfO Remember that 
ad we ran several weeks ago, and you read 
because of your smutty disguisting mind?
Well you're doing it again. Obviously you 
are not on the Natrat Production Staff, and as 
such are reading this without provocation. 
Probably getting aroused at it's tide too. 
Disguisting people out there. Anyhow, there 
will not be a Natrat Production Meeting 
Today, or Yesterday for that matter.
Having trouble 
getting up in the 
morning? Take the 
Noise Cure. 
The Pittsburgh 
Cacophony
At The Kilte Barfateria

---------------------------------------------------

Bullshit
So this Kangaroo Walks into a Bar...
He sits down on a bar stool and says to the bartender, 
"Give me a chocolate milkshake" Well, the bartender is 
a little shaken because he's never seen a kangaroo 
before, but he serves up the drink and sits back to 
watch. When the kangaroo finishes, he asks the 
bartender how much he owes him. The bartender says, 
"10 dollars." "10 dollars!?" the kangaroo exclaims, but 
he reaches into his pouch and fishes around for the 
money. Meanwhile, the bartender says, "You know, 
we don't get many kangaroos in here." The kangaroo 
says, "At these prices, I'm not surprised."....This guy 
walks into a psychiatrist's office with a duck on his 
head. The psychiatrist says, "Can I help you?" The 
duck says, "Yeah, get this guy off my ass."....What do 
you call fake spaghetti? Impasta....Three old ladies are 
sitting on a park bench, when this flasher jumps out of 
the bushes and exposes himself. Well, the first old lady 
has a stroke. The second old lady has a stroke, too. 
The third old lady, well, she doesn't touch it....I was 
having lunch with Charles Manson the other day and he 
said to me, "Editor," he said, "is it hot in here or am I 
crazy?"....Moses, Jesus, and this old man are playing 
golf. Moses is up first and he hits the ball - a slice right 
into the water trap. He walks over to it, raises his club, 
and the water parts. He hits the ball out and it's a hole 
in two. Jesus is next, and the same things happens - 
the ball goes right into the water trap. He walks on the 
water, and hits the ball out. Hole in two. The old man 
hits the ball next and, again, it goes right into the water 
trap. Then a fish swallows the ball, an eagle swoops 
down and eats the fish, and as he's flying over the 
green he shits it out and it lands right in the hole - hole 
in one! Jesus turns to the old man and says, "This is a 
serious game of golf, Dad. Cut it out."....A Rabbi's 
son comes up to him and says, "Dad, I've decided to 
convert. I want to be Catholic." Well, the Rabbi can’t 
believe this is happening! He runs to the synagogue 
and prays, "Oy! God! What should I do? My son 
wants to be Catholic!" God says, "Your 
son...?"....The Lone Ranger and Tonto are out 
protecting the West, when they're captured by Indians. 
The Indians tie them up and tell them they're to be 
killed. The Lone Ranger says "Wait! May I have a last 
request?" The chief agrees. "May I have a word with 
my horse?" The chief is baffled, but allows this. The 
Lone Ranger whistles for Silver, whispers in his ear, 
and Silver darts off across the plains, headed for the 
town. He returns a few minutes later with a naked 
woman on his back. The Lone Ranger shouts, "You 
stupid horse! I said posse!"....I went to a restaurant 
the other night and had dinner because the maitre’d said 
"No volleyball."....A bear and a rabbit were performing 
their bodily functions by a lake in the forest. The bear 
asked the rabbit, "Do you have any trouble with shit 
sticking to your fur?" The rabbit said, "No." So the 
bear wiped himself with the rabbit....A man went to a 
restaurant and ordered chicken and an egg. He wanted 
to see which came first....A college girl goes to her 
doctor for a checkup. The doctor sees the imprint of an 
"H" on the girl's chest. He says, "Do you have a 
boyfriend who goes to Harvard?" The girl says yes. 
The doctor says, "Tell him to take off his sweater the 
next time you make love." The girl says OK and 
leaves. The next day another girl goes to the doctor, 
and she has the imprint of a "Y" on her chest. The 
doctor says, "Do you have a boyfriend who goes to 
Yale?" The girl says yes, and the doctor says, "Tell 
him to take off his sweater the next time you make 
love." The girl says OK and she leaves. The next day 
another girl goes to the doctor, and she has the imprint 
of an "M" on her chest. The doctor says, "Do you have 
a boyfriend who goes to Michigan?" The girl says no, 
and the doctor is baffled. Then the girl says, "But I 
have a girlfriend who goes to Washington."
Letters:
Senior Banquet Proves Too Boring
Editor:
Boy was the senior banquet ever 
boring! I thought that whole 
shabang was supposed to be an
BoogerProblems
Editor:
Why do all the guys at 
Camegie(dash)Mellon University 
have boogers hanging out of their 
noses? It's really disgusting! Me 
and all my friends have been going 
down to Pitt and hanging out with 
the men there, because it's just too 
disgusting! Why doesn't somebody 
give these guys some kleenex or 
something? Gross!
Muffy Melzer
opportunity to relax and blow off
steam and stuff. Blow off steam?!
Shit! I only threw one dinner roll
before the thine was over. I onlv got hit with one glob of lemon
sherbet. What a drag! The guy next
to me had only started to puke his
guts out. Things were just getting
interesting, if you know what I
mean. I hadn't had so much fun
since the big food fight in the high
school cafeteria back in '82 We
didn't even have a chance to break
any furniture.
Apparently some people were a 
bit upset when we pulled a few 
little fire alarms. But what’s a little 
criminal mischief? So it made 
some noise, and dragged a few 
people out of bed in their jammies. 
We were just having some fun. 
Sure wish the evening hadn't ended
so early, or we could have had a 
really good time.
Bruno Thugg 
SeniorC-MU Should Invest in Pizza
Editor:
What the hell? This school invests 
in computers and banks and credit 
cards... Why don't they invest in 
pizza? We don't -whant cheap 
computers. We don't want low 
interest rates on our credit. Give us 
cheap pizza.Howie Lipschitz 
Human
Fascist Forum:
Let's Bring Back Conservatism
By ADOLF SLALOM and 
HEINRICH HUM
The whole country's going to 
shit. And it's those damn liberals 
(like Ronald Regan) who are 
causing it We'd like to see some 
changes made in the US of A to 
turn it around and put it back on 
the path to happy healthy 
conservatism.
For starters, let's buy West 
Germany. If we did that, then we 
could all buy BMW’s without 
having to pay those immoral 
import taxes. Taxes would go way 
down and more Americans could 
afford to buy this superior 
automobile.
Many of America's problems 
stem from the absurd amount of 
government interference that is 
legal under current laws. So let’s 
get the government off our backs.
Let's eliminate the drinking age! 
Let's legalize murder! Let's put a 
minimum income requirement on 
the right to vote!
First, the drinking age. If they 
want to drink — let 'em drink — 
but make 'em pay. If you make the 
stuff expensive enough, the only 
people abusing it and driving drunk 
will be the people rich enough to 
bribe the cops. Boom — there's 
your solution to the drunken 
driving problem.
And how about that law against 
murder. If they want to kill people 
— let 'em kill people, but make 
'em pay. If you make it expensive 
enough, then only people who 
really want to see someone dead 
will pay the exhorbitant fee for a 
murder license. If people are 
willing to pay such a huge price to 
kill a person, then the victim
probably deserved to die anyway, 
so why worry about it?
How about a $100,000 minimum 
income for suffrage. After all, we 
don't want people who don’t know 
how to invest their dollars to 
choose our presidents do we?
And let’s get those old people 
working in McDonald's. For free. 
Minimum wage is inherently evil 
anyway. Get ’em working cheap; 
that's the only way to get 'em into 
the work force. Besides, they're 
old, they ought to be performing a 
public service.
We also ought to be trading more 
arms for hostages. You give 'em 
the arms, and then once you've got 
the hostages back, you go in, steal 
back the arms and bum 'em. We 
have enough anyway. And then 
you bum the hostages. Best way to 
keep people out of the Mid-East.
• UNWIND THIS PROTECTIVE WRAP AND DISCARD • UNWIND THIS PROTECTIVE WRAP AND DISCARD
• UNWIND THIS PROTECTIVE WRAP AND DISCARD • UNWIND THIS PROTECTIVE WRAP AND DISCARD
• UNWIND THIS PROTECTIVE WRAP AND DISCARD • UNWIND THIS PROTFm VF WB ? D a Kin r»ie/* * «m
The Natrat
Floosey McLooney
Editor-in-Grief
Albatross T. FowellHandy RobabankMangling EditorHead Busybody
DruzillaDock LeveeBruised CasseroleBooze EditorFeatures EditorFluff EditorDong AbleSuckmy ShoestringPansy CaressmeSpurts EditorPhoto Dickless EditorPhoto Asinine EditorSpurt PshawRusty PelicanLisa XenophobeThinks he can drawReproduction ManagerOval's Natural EnemyPam HamMerry MouthfulOval PeabrainUseless EditorUpsetting ManagerContributing Furriner
Yawn FreezerburnJackoff Pollenate
Fills this spot in the staffboxContributing Asshole
The Natrat used to be the official 
student newspaper of C-MU but 
now we're not anymore ’cause a 
certain organization, not mention­
ing Senate's name, said we
couldn’t be anymore, so we can't 
put it in the staff box, but just so 
you know that we used to be.
Really. Now we’re just a student 
newspaper.
The Bullshit appearing at the
beginning of this section is the
official opinion of The Natrat so if 
you like it, you can kiss our 
collective ass.
Columns are the opinions of 
individual authors who are not 
necessarily intelligent people.
Letters to the Chief are opinions of 
individual authors who are usually 
complaining about something and 
are often assholes. A letter 
intended for publication must be 
signed in blood and include the
writer's address, phone number, 
dimensions and sexual preference 
for verification and exploitation. 
Names will be published without 
reservation. The Natrat relishes the 
right to slice, dice, chop, core, or 
chuck any letter we feelis in good 
taste. This has been bogusly 
brought to you by us and nobody 
else. All rights reserved (in case we 
get sued by the people who really 
pay for this malicious malarky).

---------------------------------------------------

Does Anyone Ever Read These Words?
Fashions from Physical Plant
Some of the more youthful members of the Physical Plant Department show off some of their new workclothes. The designs shown for Fall (left) and Spring (right) were done by Paidalot Fomuthin.
The Subjectivist Club: Doing parlour tricks not politics
By DOCK LEVEE
Natrat Features Editor
Ann ©nndl to {ffin® sikMnimg
ssaiscDniij ITdprr nMDWo«,
The last skate of the 1987 season will 
be this Sunday, March 29 at Point State 
Park. The three rivers haven’t unfrozen 
yet, so if you did not get to go yet, this 
is your chance to get in on the fun.
Modt nun® ait 
HaDnnweirsdliag EaUo«,
Want the best view of the Civil 
Engineering Department? Just want to 
get away from your room? Have I gotta 
deal for you!
Hamerschlag Hall (the academic one) I 
is the area that is on the cliff that faces I 
the south side of campus. The elevator I 
takes you from the top of the hall to the i 
bottom of the basements and is an outra-1 
geously good deal; it don’t cost a thing!
Once you go up to top of Hamerschlag 
Hall there are a few observation decks 
and you can look over both C-MU and 
Pitt campuses.
A recommendation is to go at night j 
because the lights of the downtown 
Oakland really make it a beautiful sight
Edtaunm dF tiQn® MffliiraQit 
ffoDrr COnaiirniiy
Students Who Just Wanna’ Raise 
Money will be holding their haircuts for 
charity for the second year in a row. 
Next Friday, at Lesspizza, Snarl 
Chiminey from the Hairpiece Club on 
South Keith Street will be donating his 
time to give haircuts for five dollars 
apiece.
If you are interested in helping with 
the event, getting your hair cut, or just 
have any questions at all, you might 
want to call the Chairman, then again 
maybe not
SWJWRMNOPQRSTU (whoops, 
sorry) still needs help with getting 
children for the Rock-a-Tike. It will be 
held on March 24th and they can use all 
the help the help they can get
Laisit Iboatt nMDtt Q®aistL>oo
M9S tUhKS «umimnmH Tr®®= 
ssiip
That’s right is time to suck the sap 
from those trees in Schenlee Park. 
They’ll be having a great old time from 
4pm until they get tired.
If you want to go out they’ll be ma­
king all sorts of things from sap. The 
highlight though, will be the annual 
tree-sap flipping contest with contes­
tants from all over the world, OK, only 
the United States, OK, only Pittsburgh, 
OK, only the guy with the red shirt in 
Doherty 2210 but it could be fun.
Book Review: “this 
one includes all the 
others.”
By THE PHANTOM
Natrat Book Reviewer
The other day, as I was trying to decide 
what book I should look at next my eye 
happened to be caught by the bright red 
cover of the most amazing book I have ever 
read in my life. Believe or not this book was 
none other than “Webster’s New Collegiate 
Dictionary”.
Never in my career as a book reviewer, 
have I ever read a book with such variety of 
language. “Webster’s” was an amazing 
odyssey of verbs, nouns and prepositions 
that made it a once in a lifetime read. I have 
to admit, it would be tough to read it more 
than once in one lifetime. However you 
should take the time because this one 
includes all the others.
Admitedly though, I did have some 
problems with the book. First the authors 
had an annoying habit of alphabetizing a 
great deal of the words, which made the book 
slow reading. The second problem was that 
as a result of this alphabetizing the plot 
became quite murky and we never do find out 
what happened to the abominable snowman 
who abominated the abomination of aboral 
aborigines. However, I did find that the 
illustrations were just enough to help along 
the reading when the plot became 
excessively convoluted.
On the Phantom’s scales it gets
? ? ? ? to make it a keeper 
Ov because there’s no development of 
romance in the plot It is mentioned a few 
times but only in a cold and clinical way.
because the word order (toes help to 
speed you along.
Recently there has been a great deal of 
controversy over the definitions of political 
clubs and the subsequent funding of such 
clubs. This controversy has been raised by 
the funding of the Subjectivist Club. This 
club is a group of people who believe that 
good is defined by subjective experience or 
feelings.
The club’s president Hamona Ryebagel, 
explains: “Our main purpose is to help 
people experience more in life because our 
interpretation of the Subjectivist Doctrine is 
that one must have a subjective experience 
to judge anything in life. That is to say, to 
judge whether an experience would be good 
depends on our experiences with the 
experience and the feelings we had 
surrounding and towards the experience.”
The Subjective Doctrine was first estab­
lished in 1972 by Ann Randers. Publishing 
in a dark room on an old mimeograph mach­
ine donated by her second cousin Ruth, she 
produced the first issue of “The Subjectivist” 
on June sixth. In the one page leaflet she 
first defined the Doctrine: ‘To experience life 
allows one to decide if it is good.”
The Subjectivist Club at C-MU was soon 
founded afterwards by Rander’s third cousin, 
removed twice and replaced once, Raymond 
French. French was able to get funding from 
the Student Senate for a picnic. It was here 
that he and the three others of the group 
made their first subjective decision to pro­
claim Flagstaff Hill as good. They also made 
their second decision; that food service’s 
seafood salad was bad.
Every year the group makes this annual pil­
grimage to Flagstaff to re-affirm these first 
two decisions. They have been affirmed 
every year except in 1980, when Flagstaff 
was decided to be only partially good and 
seafood salad to be great Ryebagel believes 
this to have been a result of a group of anti- 
subjective radicals who were later killed that 
year in a curious case of food poisoning.
They also began a second annual trip that 
same year to Kenneywouldn’t Amusement 
Park. They made their second most 
important subjective decision that the fries 
were bad unless they had cheese on top in 
which case they were good.
The reason why the club recently became 
embroiled in controversy was the practicing 
of their basic precept: experience allows 
decision of good. Their project for this sem­
ester was to decide if parlour tricks were 
good. Instead of making the obvious choice, 
they began their process of experiencing. 
The part which got them in trouble with the 
Student Senate was that the Senate misunder­
stood them and thought that they were 
getting involved in politics.
The mistake recently led to their loss of 
their funding for the annual picnic and 
Kenneywouldn’t trip. The group fought this 
action until they recently made the decision 
that fighting Senate was not good. In fact 
they have made what they consider a 
monumental contribution to Subjectivism: 
that some things are not good or bad but are 
just plain stupid. This was then applied to 
the idea of Senate.
Ryebagel speculated on the decision and 
upon the future of the club, “Well it all de­
pends on how you look at it I think it’ll cut 
into the picnic but Paul doesn’t think so, on 
the other hand Lisa thinks that it could but it 
wont’t but Josh thinks it won’t but it could, 
but Murray says he likes the seafood salad."
tffln© Mrdls
Pitt Aviary Society will be continuing 
their series on predatory birds in North 
America with this week’s “Hands-On” 
exhibit featuring vultures and peregrine 
falcons.
These weekend programs will include 
live demonstrations, a display on 
attracting wild birds, storytelling for 
children and self-guided tours of the 
Aviary (netting available for a nominal 
fee).
There is no additional charge for any of 
the programs, including the free buffet 
to be served after the hunting dem­
onstration. Still want more informa­
tion? Just call the Pitt Aviary Society at 
555-7235.

---------------------------------------------------

April 1,1987—The Natrat—Page 15
Personality Profile: A different kind of wolf
By DOCK LEVEE and SOODO NIM
Natrat Features Editor and Natrat Proofreader 
It’s a cool, windy night. The clouds are in the sky slowly shuffling back and forth in 
the heavens. You look up, see the full moon 
and remember the tales from the old horror 
movies. The howl in the distance reminds 
you of the legend of the werewolf...
Of course we all know the werewolf is a 
fictitious creature, right? Well not exactly. 
Walt Lupino is one of those famous 
creatures of the night and the Natrat was able 
to interview him for this issue’s Personality Profile.
Natrat When did you first realize that you were a werewolf?
Walt: When I was a child, I never even 
realized that I was different from the other 
children. In fact, my lycanthropy didn’t 
appear until I was going through puberty. 
Kind of like ‘Teen Wolf. But don’t get me 
wrong. Y’see I never got really popular like 
Michael J. Fox did in the movie. I was a 
loner and I didn’t tell anyone about it.
Natrat Did your friends in High School know?
Walt: No, they didn’t know for a while until 
the school play.
N: What happened?
WL: Well we were doing “The Mystery of 
Edwin Drood,” and I played Jasper. Jasper 
was Drood’s Uncle and was just a little on 
the crazed side. A really fun character. 
Anyway, we got to the song, “Moonlight” 
a duet with the leading lady and myself, 
when the transformation started. It wasn’t 
too bad, but by the end of the song, I had 
completely changed, and that kind of let the 
cat out of the bag.
N: How did your friends react?
Walt just puttering around the house during a full moon.
WL: They were surprised, to say the least 
But I was lucky, they didn’t abandon me like 
in the old movies. In fact some were hurt 
that I didn’t tell them sooner. Overall 
though, they were glad to find out because it 
explained why I wouldn’t go out every 
couple of weeks.
N: Have you had any problems making 
friends at C-MU?
WL: Not at all. I’ve made a lot of friends but 
a few turned out not to be real ones after my 
first change here. They were just hanging 
out to see me change and they turned out to 
be real jerks.
N: Can I ask what your roommates thought
about rooming with a werewolf?
WL: At first they were surprised, but the 
novelty wore off when they saw me change a 
few times. After that they just treated me 
like a regular guy.
N: So what do you plan to be doing here at 
C-MU?
WL: I’ve always loved the theater, so after 
my performance in Drood, it was only 
natural for me to become a musical theater 
major.
N: Are you currently in any productions? 
WL: No, I’m only a sophomore and we 
won’t be in productions for another year at 
least
N: What do you do for fun around campus? 
WL: You know, there isn’t a whole lot to do 
around here but sometimes we go out for a 
bite.
N: You don’t mean...
WL: Bite to eat, don’t worry; I don’t bite 
people that often. Just kidding. Actually the 
only person I bite is my girlfriend, but she’s 
a real bitch. Seriously, she is a Golden 
Retriever and she lives up on Beeler with a 
nice family. They treat her well and we go 
out every full moon.
N: Ah, do you have any human girlfriends? 
WL: Of course, I was just playing with your 
mind and I can never resist that joke. 
Actually, I’m going out with a really nice 
girl named Alice. We’ve been seeing each 
other since last year and next week we start 
talking. Sorry. Seriously though, we have a 
really good relationship.
N: What do you two do, when it’s a full moon?
WL: What do you mean?
N: Well do you go out, stay at home, do laundry...
WL: When it’s that time of the month we 
just stay in most of the time. Usually order 
in or sometimes hit a party if it’s at a good 
friend’s place.
N: What do you plan to do when you get out of here?
WL: Well, I hear that they may be doing a 
sequel to “Werewolf of London” so I’ll try 
out for that if I can. But I guess I’m mainly 
looking at doing theater in New York or 
maybe even London. Who knows, there’s 
been a play on cats, Dracula and carnivorous 
plants, maybe someone’ll write a play that I 
would fit into perfectly!
We hope so. Good luck Walt!
This week at
Scotchgu
Friday February 29:
Jim Rappoport and his singing chickens 
Saturday February 30:
Russ Pelican and his glow-in-the-dark
hamsters!
We still serve Milson Gilden and I.C. Dark!

---------------------------------------------------

Natrat Spurts
In Embarrassing Loss to ChathamLacrosse Team Lynches Joe Bob
Photo by Pat McGroin
After losing the game for CMU, Joe Bob’s teammates attacked him 
ruthlessly. By some miracle, he survived.
AIDS Prevention Seminar Held for Jocks
By DONG ABLE 
Fart and Spew Edible
In an embarrassing loss to the Chatham 
women, the Carnegie (dasli) Mellon Lacrosse 
Team vented their frustration on their newest 
member, Drive-In Movie Critic Joe Bob 
Briggs, who inadvertently scored the tie- 
breaking goal for Chatham, giving them the 
win and denying C(dash)M a chance for 
overtime play. The game saw high scores for 
the both teams, 132-131, as well as gut- 
wrenching violence against Joe Bob. Briggs 
survived the beating miraculously, and holds 
no grudges against his teammates. The 
incident, however, has raised the concern of 
school coaches and administrators as well 
about the amount of violence that goes on in 
college sports.
Last Friday's game was mostly offensive 
for both teams. The intense male-female 
rivalry between C(dash)M and Chatham 
doubled the fierceness of the competition.
"All men are bastards," commented 
Chatham Forward Ms. Leslie Licka."They 
think that all we're good for is partying and 
sleeping with. Well today we showed them.I can't wait to go to the Frats tonight and 
give them all a piece of my ... mind!"
This rivalry was echoed by C(dash)M 
defenseman, Peter Puller, when hearing 
Licka's remark.
"Oh yea, Bitch? How'd you like a piece of 
this?" commented Puller, while mimicking a 
masturbator.
CMUer Hans Alloverher had this to say:
"It was stupid for us to play them. You 
can’t hit girls, even in a game. So we had 
no defense. Meanwhile, they’re whacking the 
shit out of us with their sticks, scratching, 
pulling hair, and all that stuff. Well, by the 
end of this game, we were really pissed off, 
and Joe Bob just iced Chatham's proverbial 
cake. Shit, those bitches wore cups!"
Traditionally, Lacrosse players do not wear 
cups, because they interfere when the 
prostitiutes show up for the post-game 
party.
The biggest event of the game was the 
beating of Joe Bob. Briggs had only joined 
the team a week earlier, and this was his 
debut as a midfielder. Though scoring 
successfully initially, he became disoriented 
as the game progressed, probably because of 
the Chatham team's nude cheerleaders.
With the score tied at 131 apiece, and 20 
seconds left, CMU Forward Dick Throbb 
fired a 10-yd pass to Mike Sandsucker, who 
attempted the shot In an excellent play, 
Chatham er Louisa May Butshemaynot 
intercepted the ball and made a pass to Anna 
Conda but it was intercepted by Joe Bob. 
With three seconds left in play, and urged on 
by his teammates to shoot, Joe Bob let go a 
beautiful, midfield shoe that landed right in 
the net - CMU's net that is. The score 
counted for Chatham, giving them the win.
What ensued was probably one of the most
vile and cruel episode of sports violence seen 
by mankind. Defenseman Buster Face 
immediately threw Briggs to the ground and 
began to beat him senseless with his stick. 
The shrieks of horror from the crowd did not 
bold back the other team members from 
beating Briggs as well. Some stomped on 
his head with their cleated feet
Briggs was then tied to a nearby phone 
pole. The teammates started fifty feet back, 
ran towards Briggs, then jumped, landing 
full-impact into Briggs' uncupped crotch. In 
all, Joe Bob was jocked by twenty-six men.
Unsatisfied with their penance, they tied 
Joe Bob to the rear bumper of the coach's car 
and dragged him around the buggy 
course,"six or seven times," one eyewitness 
said. "It was just a short scrape," he said.
Briggs was then returned to the IM field 
where he was abandoned. The coach called 
security about three hours later, who brought 
him immediately to the Health Center in 
Morewood Gardens.The cops found the office 
closed and sent out an emergency call to 
Head Nurse and Bottlewasher Florence 
Flybynight, who immediately commuted to 
CMU from her home in nearby Philadelphia. 
After an hour of nonsense, Flybynight 
recommended that Joe Bob be sent to 
Shadyside Hospital.
Joe Bob was immediately admitted and 
placed on the critical-but-who-cares list. He 
spent the night and was released the next 
meaning cm his own recognizance.
Tartan Spuds Cub Reporter Beefstew Leper 
was on hand at the hospital to talk with 
Briggs, but he could not understand a 
goddam thing that came out of Briggs' 
mouth. Briggs was reached later in a 
telephone interview.
"Ya mean we lost? I thought dey wuz 
congratulatin' me. Ain't dat de way dey do 
dat? Well, issa good ding I gut no ballz! 
Dem spikes wooda hurt! Heh heh! Y'see, 
Ime uzeda dis stuff. I've been beaten all my 
life. It makes me feel wanted. I can't wait to 
looz da next game!"
However, Head Coach Bif Cake disagreed 
with Joe Bob’s plans. "He sucks. It's bad 
enough that the friggin' kid can’t speak a 
goddam word of English, but when this kind 
of thing happens, forget it He's outta here!"
CMU administrators and athletics directors 
are concerned with another aspect of the 
violence.
"I can't believe we lost to Chatham!" said 
Chess Director Czech Mait
"It is essential that this behavior be 
stopped immediately," said CMU President 
Cyert. "It cost the school $750 to hire the 
Public Works to scrape the flesh off of the 
buggy course. We can't continue to incur 
these expenses."
Briggs survived the ordeal, miraculously, 
with only a few scrapes and lacerations. He 
remains in good spirits, and is considering 
joining the Football team this fall.
By LONG DON COPPER
Natrat Spuds Oedipus
An AIDS prevention seminar was held last 
Thursday in Thistle Gym for the benefit of 
Camegie(dash)Mellon athletes. According to 
UAA / PAC / IBM / UPS / CIA Director 
Ruffus Upp, athletes are one of the most 
vulnerable types of people who can be 
infected, because of the contact they engage 
in. It was out of this concern that the 
. seminar was held. Although no AIDS cases 
have been reported here, school officials 
believe that prevention. and education are 
essential in keeping our athletes' "guns" 
clean.
The majority of the time at the seminar 
was spent on new breakthroughs in AIDS 
prevention research, primarily in the field of 
Non - Permeable, Quasi - Epidermic Anti- 
Sperm Transmission Devices, known
otherwise as "rubbers" or "safes". The 
success of these devices in AIDS prevention 
has prompted the development of condoms 
which athletes may use to prevent the 
possibility of asexual infection.
Several of these devices were demonstrated 
in typical sports situations where
infection could occur. For instance, the 
"Midriff Condom", shown below is an 
extremely useful device for wrestlers, since it 
prevents accidental transmission of vital 
male secretions into the opponent's anus. 
Another device, "Goatskin Boxing Gloves" 
were shown to prevent AIDS transmission 
to boxers who give their opponents a bloody 
nose, or gash the sac under their eyeball wide 
open so that they bleed profusely.
"Oh God, it gets messy," said PAC coach 
Chu E. Looey. "Take a gorgeous hunk, like 
Rock was. Some straight athlete, a boxer, 
let’s say, gets a line from Rock in a bar. The 
guy gets miffed, and gives Rock a bloody 
nose. Then he licks the blood off of his 
hand. Well, maybe Rock has a bloody nose, 
but the straight bitch gets the death sentence. 
Then he gives it to his wife, and so on. We 
need these devices NOW!"
A surprising part of the seminar was the 
protest of the devices by ACLU and GALA 
members, declaring it unconstitutional to 
make the athletes wear the devices. This 
made little sense, but then again, not much 
of what they have to say usually does 
anyway, so they were ignored.
Scoreboard
Chess
Diesel Institute of Pittsburgh 5 
Carnegie(dash)Mellon 0
Lacrosse
Chatham 132
Carnegie(dash)Mellon 131
IM Hacking Marathon
Four-Eyed Weasels 345 hrs 
The Oxygen Thieves 344 hrs.
Photo by Jack Mieoff
Wrestlers Rod and Staff demonstrate the use of the "Midriff Condom", a 
helpful device in AIDS prevention for athletes.
