

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—The Tartan—April 22, 1986
People vs. Cars: Senate studies problem intersections
By NATALIE CAPONE
Tartan Staffwriter
Traffic problems at four campus intersections 
have prompted the Student Senate Campus Af­
fairs Committee to be concerned for the safety 
of pedestrians. The committee has developed 
a proposal addressing the traffic problems, and 
will soon present solutions to the City of 
Pittsburgh.
The intersections in question are Forbes 
Avenue at Morewood Avenue, Forbes Avenue*' 
at Devon Road (near Skibo entrance), Margaret 
Morrison at Tech Street, and Margaret Morrison 
at the Donner bend. In the year between 
January, 1985 and January, 1986, five in­
stances of pedestrians being struck by vehicles 
in these general areas were reported to the 
security office.Peter Cohen, Chairman of Student Senate, 
and former Chairman of the Campus Affairs 
Committee, said that he was approached by “a 
lot of students who felt that the traffic situation 
was dangerous. Several students knew people 
who had almost been hit by cars, or who had 
almost been hit themselves.” After speaking to 
Chief of Security Robert Fazden, who in 
Cohen’s opinion felt the intersections were a 
“bad situation that should be rectified,” the 
Campus Affairs Committee researched the 
matter.
Cohen and committee member Glenn Korn- 
brek, along with other Student Senators, record­
ed the speed of vehicles at the corner of 
Morewood and Forbes Avenues, and found that 
in fifteen minute intervals there were at least 
25 cars that exceeded the 25 mph limit, with 
the average speed ranging from 36 to 43 mph 
in the three periods they observed. Two of these 
periods were during rush hour, while the third 
was in the late evening. The Campus Affairs 
Committee would like to see the “installation 
of a flashing speed limit sign to alert drivers of 
the 25 mph speed limit.”
The members also timed the walk/don’t walk 
signs, and found that before 11pm, the cycle 
breaks down into 60 seconds for Forbes Avenue 
traffic, 20 seconds for Morewood Avenue traf­
fic, and 20 seconds for pedestrians to cross. 
They also found that of the pedestrian’s time 
portion, the walk signal is lit for only 6 seconds. 
After 11pm, the walk signal does not light unless 
the manual control is pushed.
The pedestrian traffic is almost equal to and 
sometimes exceeds the vehicular traffic at 
Morewood and Forbes in the early afternoon. 
The committee suggests that the “pedestrian 
walk-time percentage on Forbes and Morewood 
crossing lights” be increased, especially dur-
Number Of Cars/People Thru Morewood/Forbes Intersection By Hour
3000
2500
2000
1500
1000
500
10:00 AM 11:00 AM 12:00 PM 1:00 PM 2:00 PM4:00 PM 5:00 PM
People Per Hour U Cars Per Hour
WÊmmiÆi mm am
photo by Jack L. Poller
Students have 20 seconds to avoid traffic at Forbes.
ing “peak student crossing hours,” and that 
“mandatory pedestrian walk-time” be im­plemented after 11pm.
The proposal of the Senate committee also 
suggested adding three stop signs at the Ham- 
merschlag access road at Margaret Morrison 
Street, and in both directions at Margaret Mor­
rison at Tech Street. In addition, the proposal 
suggests painting crosswalks on the road sur­
face.
The committee presented its data to Chief 
Fazden, who then requested that the proposal 
be presented in early April to a sub-committee 
of the Business Affairs office, which discusses 
various campus problems. The administrators 
of this sub-committee agreed with most of the 
Senate’s suggestions, said Cohen, and suggested 
some changes and variations.
Part of the long-range Campus Master Plan, 
which involves the building of the Forbes 
Avenue Complex and the renovation of Skibo, 
includes a skyway crosswalk similar to that at 
the University of Pittsburgh. The committee felt 
that this would help to alleviate the safety pro­
blems at Morewood and Forbes, but Cohen 
questions “who will bother to use the walkway?” 
which would begin in an upper floor of 
Morewood E-Tower, and the length of time in­
volved in building it.
The Senate Committee is waiting to present 
its proposal to the City of Pittsburgh. According 
to Cohen, the presentation will be sometime 
after commencement, which is May 12. He ex­
pressed his dismay that the committee members 
won’t be around to revise the data if the City 
asks for changes saying “We have good solu­
tions, good recommendations, and we want to 
see something done.”
“The Administration has given a lot of sup­
port, particularly Chief Fadzen,” said Cohen, 
“but we have to get going a lot faster if we want 
to see anything done. We’ve been sitting on this 
for too long of a time.” He feels that implemen­
tation of the solutions has been “held up by 
bureaucracy.”
“Once the city is convinced, I think the pro­
blems can be corrected very quickly,” said 
Cohen, who pointed out that most of the recom­
mendations just ask for signs to be put up and 
crosswalks re-painted.
Cohen also expressed his hope that Carnegie 
Mellon administrators would “use their in­
fluence with the city to get something done” if 
the situation warrants it. “It’s obvious that the 
students are concerned, and if the Administra­
tion is concerned (and I think they are), then 
I think they’ll come out and support us,” said 
Cohen.
SEI: Understanding what it is, does, and who controls it
By DRUE MILLER and 
GAVIN WILLIAMS
Tartan Staffwriters
Since groundbreaking ceremonies on 
September 23, 1985, the Software Engineer­
ing Institute has made considerable progress. 
Until the building is completed in May of 1987, 
SEI employees are operating out of a renovated 
factory on South Aiken St. (next to Shadyside Hospital).
Their current location holds 140 offices and 
7 conference rooms, a total of about 40,000 
sq. feet. The new building on the comer of Fifth 
Ave. and Dithridge St. will have 300 offices, 
30 conference rooms, a 110-seat auditorium, 
and a 398 space parking garage, for a grand 
total of 150,000 sq. feet. To date, only the 
structure of the garage is up.
John Manley, director of the SEI, says the In­
stitute won’t be fully staffed “for about 10 
years.’ Manley sets total employment by 1996 
at 1000; 600 employees in Pittsburgh (200 
from industry) and 400 elsewhere around the 
country in a 2-for-l arrangement (1 industry 
affiliate comes to Pittsburgh, 2 from where he 
came do additional SEI research.) Currently
there are more than 100 employees; 79 full­
time, 47 on the technical staff, 2 academic 
residents, 1 industrial affiliate from General 
Electric, and members of the Navy and Air 
Force, as well as student aides. Manley stress­
ed that they are graduate students employed on 
a part-time basis, although he hopes to even­
tually hire undergraduates “when we’re big­
ger... [because it would be a) great opportunity 
for them to be exposed to the work we’re doing 
here.”
The SEI has attracted faculty from various 
colleges around the country in addition to 
Carnegie Mellon. However, Carnegie Mellon
faculty are not allowed to be employed by both 
the university and the SEI. Mario Barbacci, a 
former associate professor in the computer 
science department, is now a full-time employee 
of the SEI. Nico Habermann, head of the Com­
puter Science department, is working with the 
SEI as an affiliate, although he is not employed 
by them.
James Tomayko, a visiting history professor 
from Wichita State University (and CMU alum­
nus), is an advisor in the education division of 
the SEI. Tomayko explained the three divisions 
within the Institute: the most visible is the 
technology division, which is involved in actual
Time goes on in MTV competition
By LISA MCANANY
Tartan Editor-in-Chief 
Time goes on as Jeff Muller made it through 
the first round of competition in the national M- 
TV rock-alike competition. Muller, with his im­
personation of Morris Day, lead-singer for the 
Time, beat-out Kevin Gore of Northwestern 
University, who imitated David Byrne of the 
Talking Heads, doing “Once in a Lifetime.”
The contest was decided by the viewing au­
dience of M-TV who were given 900 numbers 
to call and place votes for their favorite per­
former.The next round of the competition takes place 
on May 24, when Muller goes up against the 
winner of the competition between Kate Haff- 
ner and Barbara McCloud. Haffner is from 
continued on page 7
software research. This research will benefit in­
dustrial, private, and military sectors. A second 
division is training, which teaches prospective 
software engineers how to use existing 
languages, such as UNIX. The Department of 
Defense hopes to benefit from people trained 
in engineering languages at SEI and is spon­
soring it for this reason. At present, however, 
there are no contracts with the DoD.The education division is a less visible but 
more developed part of the SEI. Tomayk° 
claims that since they have a “clear goal 
what they want to do, they have done a con 
siderable amount. This goal is the “accelerated 
transfer of information” out of SEI and into the 
academic community. To accomplish this 
technology transfer, the education division con, 
tains the most faculty within SEI.
Tomayko believes the standard compu*er 
science program does “not offer itself to soft 
ware engineering.” To combat this problem, ^ 
education division is developing such a program 
for Ph.D.’s. Along with this, a course on sott 
ware engineering is being taught in the department. At the moment, efforts are being 
continued on pa9e 3

---------------------------------------------------

April 29, 1986—The Tartan—Page 3
EDRC 
Design 
meets
Engineering
By LISA McANANY
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
The Design Research Center which has been 
in existence here at Carnegie Mellon since 1974 will soon become the Engineering Design 
Research Center. The Transformation is taking 
place with the aid of a $14.9 million grant from 
the National Science Foundation. The grant 
money is to fund the initiation and maintenance 
of the center over the next five years, with $2 
million appropriated for the first year.
The EDRC is being co-directed by Sarosh 
Talukdar, of the Electrical and Computer 
Engineering Department, and Arthur W. 
Westerberg, a professor in the Chemical 
Engineering Department. Both graduates and 
undergraduates will be involved in the research 
being done. Instituting the center will also bring 
an added emphasis on design to the engineer­
ing curricula. “We’ve thought design was im- 
continued on page 4
North Craig Street
Senior arrested in auto homicide
This is how the architects envision the completed Software Engineering Institute.
Teaching: Part of SEI’s role
By LISA KAGEL
Tartan Staffwriter
A senior electrical engineering student at 
Carnegie Mellon was arrested Saturday, April 
19 after an auto accident which left one woman 
dead.The accident occurred April 15 at 6:45 pm 
in the Hazelwood section at Mobile and Irvine 
Streets. The victim was a 54 year-old woman 
who resided at 4500 Chadsworth Avenue also 
in Hazelwood.
Wayne Bortman, 21 years-old, fled the scene, 
according to Brad Walters, Dean of Student Af­
fairs, and continued to his home in 
Massachussetts. He surrendered to detectives 
April 15 and was arrested on counts of 
homicide by vehicle, leaving the scene of an ac­
cident where there was an injury or death, 
reckless driving, and driving too fast for condi­
tions, said Bob Fazden, Head of CMU security.
Bortman has been released on “nominal 
bond” and awaits a hearing April 29.
continued from page 2
concentrated on the development of a teaching 
system based on modules. These modules 
divide the various aspects of software engineer­
ing into specific, coherent parts. By themselves 
or in pairs, they will make up courses and are 
interchangeable. According to Tomayko, at least 
10 of these modules will have been developed 
by the summer.
The modules will be introduced to the na­
tional academic community in late September, 
1986, at a faculty development workshop. 100 
schools have been invited to the workshop, 
which is open to any interested faculty.
With regard to the nature of SEI research, 
Manley once again stated their position. The SEI 
will conduct “little to no classified research, in 
the sense that what we’re doing will be secret.” 
Some research will necessitate access to pro­
tected information: trade secrets from industry 
and military classified documents from the 
government, the latter of which requires a 
military security clearance. Manley explained 
that the clearance is in essence no different than 
the signing of a non-disclosure document when 
reading industrial trade secrets. Such 
agreements are necessary to protect the com­
pany from its competitors, of (in the case of 
government), to keep vital information from 
“foreign countries that may become our 
enemies.” The SEI will not be building or pro­
ducing classified material; therefore, Manley
doesn’t foresee the technical people needing clearances.
The military will not be censoring SEI 
documents; rather, it will be checking for quali­
ty, correct acronyms and references to military 
installations and such, as well as mistakes. It 
will also edit out any classified information ob­
tained from the initial problem before the results 
are made public. Manley stressed that the SEI is the final judge of content — “even if they [the 
military] disagree with what we’re saying, they 
have no right to prevent us from saying this.” 
Each document will carry an “elaborate set of 
disclaimers,” crediting the opinions solely to the 
author.
The SEI anticipates future protests like the 
one the CMU Peace Alliance held at the ground­
breaking. Manley divided protestors into three 
categories: those who take a taxpayers’ stand­
point and feel that their money should not be 
spent on defense, those who oppose the use of 
defense for moral purposes (associate the DoD 
with weapons and weapons with killing), and 
those who see the institution as a “threat to their 
institution.” In this last category he placed coun­
tries who are currently against the U.S., and 
subsequently against the DoD. He says there 
will “always be people who are very anti-DoD, 
and anti-anything involved with the DoD...pro­
tests will go on continuously, but that is part of 
the beauty of a university...[being able to] ex­
press opinions freely.”
B'nai B'rith Hillel Invites You To
SHABBAT SPECIAL (Services, dinner & program)
May 2, 1986 6 p.m.
in the Faculty Dining Club, Skibo Hall
Guest Speaker: Mr. Joseph Bremen
President of ZOA/Pittsburgh Zionist 
District
Topic: "Libya Crisis and It's Effect of Israel"
Cost: $3.00 for members; $3.50 for non-members 
Reservations a must; call 621-8875
Large two-bedroom furnished apartment. 
Avialable May 1, 1986.
$350 Plus Utilities 
Call 751-9639 or 621-0610
The
supports of
SEI are in place now.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—The Tartan—April 29, 1986
World NewsFrom AP
British tourist 
shot to death 
in Jerusalem’s 
Arab sector
JERUSALEM—A British tourist has been 
shot to death near a Protestant holy site in 
Jerusalem’s Arab sector:
Police say the killing appears to be the latest 
in a recent series of terror attacks against 
tourists.
They say the young man’s body was found 
lying on a narrow street outside a door leading 
into the garden tomb, which Protestants believe 
was the site of Jesus’ crucifixion and burial. 
Police spokesman Rafi Levi says the tourist was 
shot once in the back of the head with a small- 
caliber pistol.
On April 16th, a German woman strolling 
around the old city was shot in the shoulder. 
Her attacker was never arrested.
On March 7th, an American vistor was graz­
ed in a shooting attack in a narrow street of the 
old city.
Israeli police say four terror gangs are 
operating out of Jerusalem’s old city and the 
occupied West Bank. They say the gangs were 
responsible for a number of recent attacks in 
and around Jerusalem, including the assassina­
tion of the Israeli-appointed mayor of Nablus 
on March 2nd.
Shot worker feeling fine
An American embassy worker shot last week 
in North Yemen is said to be “feeling fine” and 
is in “good condition.” Arthur Pollick was shot by unidentified men.
Tripoli paper 
calling for 
investigation
A state-run newspaper in Tripoli is calling for 
an investigation into what Libya did wrong dur­
ing the US bombing raid this month. The New 
York Times also quotes unidentified eastern bloc 
sources as saying Libya’s Khadafy has asked 
for a review by a team of Yugoslav and 
Czechoslovak military advisors.
U.S. woman 
stays in Beirut 
Most Americans are getting out of Beirut these 
days, but 79-year-old Genevieve Maxwell of 
Long Island, New York is staying put. Having 
lived there for 23 years, Maxwell says she feels 
at home in West Beirut. Maxwell has seen the 
city go downhill from being the “Paris of the 
Middle East” to a jungle of feuding militias. But 
she says her neighborhood is safe.
Madrid paper 
says Spain helped 
in raid on Libya
According to a Madrid newspaper, Spain lent 
a hand to the US during the recent air strike 
against Libya. The newspaper reports that six 
US tankers, based in Spain, topped off the tanks of Libya-bound F-lll’s. The mid-air refueling 
was necessary for the bomb-laden planes to 
make the long journey from their base in Bri­
tain to Libyan targets.
Bild paper 
says Nidal 
planning to free 
jailed Palestinians 
The West German newspaper Bild is repor­
ting that the terror organization of Abu Nidal 
is planning attacks in Europe to free imprison­
ed Palestinians. The paper also identified men 
held in Britain and West Germany on bombing 
charges as members of Abu Nidal’s group.
Two Cosmonauts 
orbiting since March 15 
receive fresh supplies
Two Soviet cosmonauts who’ve been orbiting 
Earth since March 15th have received fresh 
supplies from home. The Soviet news agency 
Tass says the cargo spacecraft Sunday docked 
with the “Mir” space station. The craft 
reportedly carried fuel, water and other sup­
plies. Soviet scientists say the space station 
eventually will be permanently manned.
Six die in Haiti 
marking anniversary 
of Duvalier crackdown
Unrest in Haiti has led to at least six deaths. 
Witnesses say three people were killed Satur­
day when police fired into a crowd of power 
lines. Three others were reported electrocuted 
by falling power lines. Some ten-thousand peo­
ple took to the streets of Port-Au-Prince to mark 
the 23 rd anniversary of a crackdown by the 
then-ruling Duvalier family.
France reported 
to conduct underground 
nuclear test
In Paris, officials are refusing to comment on 
a report that France Sunday set off a small 
underground nuclear blast. Monitors for New 
Zealand’s government say they detected signs 
of a French nuclear test located on a southern Pacific Island.
Khadafy had to grope 
through bombs and ashes
Libya leader Moammar Khadafy tells a Lon­
don newspaper that he was asleep in his home 
when the American bombers struck. In an in­
terview published by “Sunday Today,” 
Khadafy says he groped his way through 
“bombs and the ashes” trying to save his 
children. Libyan authorities say Khadafy’s 
adopted baby daughter was killed—and two 
sons injured during the bombing raid. Earlier 
reports indicated Khadafy wasn’t at home dur­
ing the raid.
EDRC designs better, quicker
continued from page 3
portant for a long time, but haven’t had the 
resources to concentrate on it,” says Talukdar.
The center will have two major objectives: the 
first, to develop techniques for designing pro­
ducts more quickly; the second, to design bet­
ter. To achieve these goals, the center will use 
high-powered computer facilities. Talukdar 
maintains that the researchers will have access 
to better facilities than the average user. The 
DRC is currently using powerful Hewlett- 
Packard workstations which were donated by 
the company. Ultimately, the center will use 
workstations backed up with powerful central 
computers.
The research done by the EDRC will be inter­
disciplinary in nature. Architecture students 
have been involved in the Design Research Center since its start. The work done at the 
EDRC will also overlap that of the Robotics In­
stitute and the Psychology Department. 
Cognitive psychology will be particularly impor­
tant, because quantitative reasoning will play a 
big part in the center’s research efforts.
Other schools to get grants from the NSF in­
clude Lehigh, the University of Illinois, 
Brigham-Young with the University of Utah, and 
Ohio State Univrsity. Research grants were 
awarded last year to MIT, Purdue, and the 
University of Maryland.
CMU Students:
is now accepting 
applications for the Sum­
mer Sessions and the Fall 
Semester.
If you are interested in a posi­
tion as waiter, bartender, or 
cook, please pick up an ap­
plication at the Skibo Infor­
mation Desk or Scotland 
Yard.

---------------------------------------------------

April 29; 1986—The Tartan—Page 5
BUY 5 SONY 3.5" DISKS ... GET A FREE 
STORAGE CASE WITH COLLEGE EMBLEM! 
Who invented the 3.5" disk? Sony did. For 
disks that perform to the highest standards, it’s 
a smart move to go to the source. And we’re 
smart enough to know you need a place to put 
your disks—so when you buy 5 Sony 3.5" 
Micro Floppydisks, we’ll give you a free
storage case with cniMV your college emblem!
CMUComputer Store
National News
CARNEGIE MELLON ADMISSIONS COUNCIL
ATTENTION ... CLASS OF '86
With graduation starts a new phase of life - new jobs, new cities, new apartments, etc. You can still maintain a tie with the old by serving on the Carnegie Mellon Admissions Council (CMAC). The Admissions Staff is always looking for young alumni who can assist in recruiting and interviewing future Carnegie Mellon students nation-wide.
As an Alumni Advisor, you have two major responsibilities:
1. talking with students who have inquired/applied to the University,
2. representing Carnegie Mellon at various college fairs.
You choose the degree of involvement you wish. Serving as a volunteer for the Admissions Office is both an enjoyable and valuable way to server your future alma mater. The Admisssions Council presently consists of over 500 active alumni.
If you would like to become a part of this network, please complete the coupon and send it to:
Kim Krieger Director, CMAC 107 Warner Hall
or stop by the Admissions Office when you have a chance.
CARNEGIE MELLON ADMISSIONS COUNCIL
NAME:__________________________MAJOR:______
LOCAL ADDRESS:______ __________LOCAL PHONE #:
UPON GRADUATION, I WILL BE MOVING TO_____________
(CITY)
Falling oil prices cause halt in drilling of Pennsylvania-grade crude
PITTSBURGH—Oil industry officials say 
plummeting oil prices have resulted in the layoff 
of several thousand workers and have almost 
halted the drilling of new wells in Pennsylvania, 
New York, Ohio and West Virginia. In January, 
Pennsylvania-grade crude oil sold for 26 dollars 
a barrel. Now it goes for 13 dollars and 50 
cents, the lowest price since 1978. Analysts fear
the decline in drilling could eventually create 
a shortage of Pennsylvania-grade crude and 
domestic crude in general.
Cuts in federal assistance programs and 
unemployment contributed to a 15 percent in­
crease in the number of Pennsylvania 
household who were served by foodbanks from
1984 to 1985. That’s according to a statewide 
survey on hunger, which found that the number 
of households supplied jumped to 1.3 million 
in 1985 from 1.15 million the year before. The 
largest numerical increase occurred in 
Allegheny County, but other big increases oc­
curred in Dauphin and Philadelphia counties.
CMU Gold Card: Reality in Spring ’87
By David Levy
Tartan Assistant 
The “Gold Card” ID card accounts are still 
just a little beyond the horizon, according to the 
creators of the plan, Thomas Horner, CMU 
Comptroller, and Oscar Meyer, head of
Auxiliary Services.
They will be meeting with Griffin Technology 
this week to discuss a time line for the fined plan. 
Griffin Technology is the owner of the Val-i-dine 
System and will be handling the conversion of 
university services to the convenience of the ID
card accounts.
Although the University Dining Accounts will 
be running next semester; the general account 
for other Campus Stores will prohably not be 
available until the Spring ’87 Semester.
Stay tuned to discover the Gold.
City NewsFrom AP Wire
Eighteen Nigerians 
nabbed in 
credit card fraudEighteen Nigerian nationals are accused of 
using lots of plastic money. They’re to be ar­
raigned in federal court in Houston tomorrow. 
Federal officials say the suspects used 150 
stolen credit cards to buy stereos, TV’s and com­puters. Authorities say they’ve recovered at least 
200 thousand dollars worth of merchandise and 
cash that was apparently obtained with stolen 
credit cards.
Israeli rabbi
accused of selling 
arms to Iran
A rabbi says he knew about a proposed deal 
to sell US arms to Iran, but Yitzhak Hebroni 
says he had nothing to do with it. Hebroni is 
treasurer of an Israeli company suspected of try­
ing to make the arms deal. But Hebroni told 
Israeli radio he has “no connection with trade 
in weapons.” Hebroni is accused by US officials 
of plotting the deal. More than a dozen others, 
including his bosses, are also charged.
CIA says China 
increased consumer goods and inflation
A congressional committee has released a US in recent years have increased its output of con-
intelligence assessment of the economy of the sumer goods. But the study says they’ve also
world’s most populated nation, China. The CIA boosted inflation and hurt grain production,
study concludes that China’s economic reforms
Students testifying 
against teacher 
are being harrassed
PITTSBURGH—Police say students testify­
ing against a former high school teacher, who 
is charged with sexually assaulting some of his 
pupils, are being harassed by their classmates. 
Allegheny County detectives say former Carlyn- 
ton High School music teacher Gary Gunn of 
Ligonier was popular with the students. And 
Gunn’s arrest on 58 criminal charges has pro­
mpted the students to pick on those testifying 
against him.
Girl dies 
when tornado 
tosses pickup on her
fights 
Midnight Cowboy
Home Box Office viewers got a bit of a jolt Satur­
day night. Someone identifying himself as “Cap 
tain Midnight” interrupted a movie to apparent­
ly protest cable TV fees. A message appeared, 
reading in part: “12-dollars, 95 cents a month? 
No Way! Showtime/Movie Channel beware.” 
One viewer says HBO struggled with the elec­
tronic intruder to get its signal back. Greg 
Mahany says “It looked like a fight for control 
of the microwave beam.”
ROCK RAPIDS, IOWA—A four-year-old girl 
in rural northwest Iowa is reported dead after 
a tornado tossed a pickup truck on top of her. 
Authorities say she was walking across her yard 
with her father when the twister touched down Saturday night.
Officials say at least two tornadoes hit nor­
thwest Iowa and souther Minnesota. Besides the 
child, two people were injured in Iowa. A 
hospital spokeswoman says one of the two is in 
critical condition. And three people have been 
hospitalized in Minnesota.
The twisters heavily damaged at least 15 farms.

---------------------------------------------------

Tkke\theI %.\\ plunge
U
Sign up for Army ROTC Basic 
Camp. You’ll get six weeks of 
challenges that can build up your 
leadership skills as well as your 
body. You’ll also get almost $700.
But hurry. This summer may be 
your last chance to graduate from 
college with a degree and an officer’s 
commission. Be all you can be.
See your Professor of Military 
Science for details.
2nd Basement—Margret Morrison 
or call X2205
* summer.
%
\ \
w
\
w
I 
\ \
ARMY RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS
BAKER HALL 
May 1, 2, 5, 6 & 7 
10:00 a.m.-4:00 p.m
COLLEGE GRADUATE FINANCE
Pag e2—ThrPtCHOOSE THE FINANCE PROGRAM THAT SUITS YOUR NEEDS
1986 PONTIAC STE*
OVER
1000
BRAND NEW
1986 PONTIACS 1986 PONTIAC FIERO*
‘THESE TWO WORLD CLASS AUTOMOBILES ARE LISTED AS 
TWO OF MOTOR TREND'S BEST TEN IN THE WORLD.
CONVERTIBLESB0NNEVILLESGRAND AM SE'S
• PRICE• SERVICE• SELECTION
cusroms sa maction is out highist mom 
MONROEVILLE, PA 
373-3333 247-16
Investment 
Banking-
Quantitative
Financial
Analyst
Challenging positions in Asset-Based 
Finance for 1986 graduates. 
Responsibilities include computer 
modeling, financial analysis and 
product development. The 
department is small and growing and 
opportunities for advancement are 
excellent.
Candidates must have outstanding 
quantitative and computer skills. 
Knowledge of A PL and/or C and 
UNIX preferred.
Compensation includes salary and an 
annual bonus review.
Send cover letter & resume to:
Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Co. Inc. 
1345 Avenue of the Americas 
New York, New York 10105 
Att: Andrew Kimura, 50th Floor
Summer positions also available
Equal Opportunit y Employer I Male- Female
ByNAT LIECPO
‘c~ / VM, Smith Hurncv. Harris t ft ham & ( <>.. hn
j

---------------------------------------------------

April 29, 1986—The Tartan—Page 7Two Minutes of the Student Senate
Minutes of the Student Senate, April 15, 
1986
Meeting called to order 7:30pm.
present:Ayre, Cohen, Flynn, Frank, Friedland, 
Greenberg A, Greenberg M, Hausman, Herron, 
Jagerski, Kaplan, Kombrek, Larson, Levy, Lon- 
sky, McDonnell, Mukherjee, Patnaik, Robit- 
shek, Rocher, Scanlon, Shipley, Stachura, 
Staresenic, Welsh. Ex-officio members: Dean 
Cox, Denburg, DeLeon, Chu.
Absent: Bollinger, Bram, Giles. Ex-officio 
members: Dean Walter.
Elections: Senate broke a tie between J. Andy 
Gillespie and Neil Shipley for the H&SS seat. 
Neil Shipley won the seat.
Peter Cohen was voted in as Chairman of
Senate.Cherie Jagerski was elected Chairperson of Academic Affairs by acclamation.
Leslie Frank was elected Chairperson of Cam­
pus Affairs.
Nadine Flynn was elected Chairperson of Public 
Relations & Human Resourses by acclamaiton. 
Tamal Mukherjee was elected co-Chairman in 
charge of Funding by acclamaiton.
Uday Patnaik was elected co-Chairman in 
charge of Recognition by acclamaiton.
Dean Cox: Sunday thru Mon Drs. Sloane and 
Johnson, an outside agency, will evaluate the 
CMU Health Services.
Allen Greenberg asked Dean Cox the reasons 
for removing a sculpture form the Forbes St 
Gallery window. Dean Cox explained that it 
violated a city ordinance.
President:Jim Denburg The MTV concert, 
resulting from the MS drive, will be on the Fri­
day of homecoming. Seniors will be given ticket 
information by mail.
IFC:Teri Jones IFC has come up with the 
following rules for fraternity parties. The 
violaiton of these rules will result in a fine for 
the fraternity.
1. All persons entering a party must have a student ID.
2. An intoxicated person shall not be served.
3. There shall be no advertised parties on weekdays.
Academic Affairs: The AA report on Student 
Advisory Committees (SACs) has been com­
pleted. It shows what departments have SACs 
and what their major goals are. If anyone is in­
terested in seeing this report it is available in the Senate office - Skibo 59.
Action has been taken on the problem of lack of space in Comp. Sci. classes.
Old Business: The Tuition Report for the 
academic year 87-’88 has come out. Chairman 
of Tuition Committee Earle Swank, Vice-pres. 
of Business Affairs Fred Rodgers and members of the Tuition Committee have been invited to April 22 meeting.
Meeting Adjourned 9:30pm.
Minutes of the Student Senate, April 22, 
1986
Meeting called to order 7:05pm.
Present:Ayre, Bram, Cohen, Flynn, Frank, 
Friedland, Giles, Greenberg A, Greenberg M, 
Hausman, Herron, Jagerski. Kaplan, Kornbrek, 
Larson, Levy, McDonnell, Mukherjee, Patnaik, 
Rocher, Scanlon, Shipley, Stachura, Staresinic.
Ex-officio members: Dean Cox, Dean Walter, Denburg, DeLeon, Chu.
Absent: Bollinger, Lonsky (excused), Robitshek 
(excused), Welsh. Ex-officio members: Dean Walter, DeLeon.
Audience Participation: Professor Swank with 
the aid of Sr. V.P. Creson, V.P. Fred Rodgers, 
and two students on the Tuition Committee 
(Scott Hoffman and Stephen Finney) address­
ed Senate on the recommended tuition increase 
for academic year 87-88. Swank told of the 
committee’s motivation for this increase. Fac­
tors involved were financial aid, inflation and
the endowment level. Five copies of the Tui­
tion Report will be put in the library.
Sr. V.P. for Academic Affairs Creson address­
ed Senate concerning a proposal to enter CMU 
in a slightly more competitive athletic con­
ference called the Univ. Athletic Assoc.. The 
cost is $200,000 per year. It is believed that 
this would upgrade the quality of life; however, 
none of this money will be put into upgrading 
the facilities. The University Center will hopeful­
ly accomplish that. Senator Eric Rocher pass­
ed a motion saying “Student Senate endorses 
the Universities desire to join the University 
Athletic Association.”
Dean Cox: The evaluation of CMU Health Ser­
vices was very thorough. Recommendations for 
the service will come later.
President:Jim Denburg There will be a 
trustees meeting the day after commencement. 
Special measures are being taken to make sure 
that student members of this committee are be­ing invited.
IFC:Teri Jones Whether or not to have a dry 
rush hasn’t been decided yet.
Chairman: The Senate retreat will be Friday 
Sept. 5. The purpose of this retreat is to learn 
how to work together and to do some brainstorming, (boom)
The first meeting next year will be Tues. Aug. 
26.
Campus Affairs: The Margaret Mornson St 
issue (traffic problems) is still being address­
ed. CA will be meeting with the City soon. 
Funding & Recognition: The Carnegie Tech 
Radio Club was granted a special allocation of 
$650.00 to cover the costs of renovations. 
The Ultimate Frisbee Club was granted a special 
allocation of $4,625.00 to pay for travel and 
lodging expenses for the regional and national 
competitions. If by some act of God they don’t 
make it to these competitions they don’t get no 
green.
IFC was granted a special allocation of $800.00 
to help fund the production of next years rush 
book.
Public Relations: Will the T-shirts ever get 
here? Yes.Got any cool ideas about Activities Fair and 
Homecoming?
New Business: Seth Kaplin asked what could 
be done with ex-Officio members that don’t at­
tend Senate Meetings. There is nothing in the 
Constitution of Senate that addresses this 
problem.
Announcements: Have a groovy
summer...........K.
Meeting Adjourned 9:00pm.Time to vote
continued from page 2
Dartmouth College and will impersonate 
Madonna’s “Into the Groove.’’McCloud of the 
University of the Pacific, will impersonate Tina 
Turner performing “Better Be Good to Me.” 
The tape of Muller’s video will be in Scotland 
Yard on Wednesday and will be shown at 8:00.
STUDENTS & CMU COMMUNITY
If you have lost articles, books, clothing, etc., please 
check at the Information Desk by Tuesday, May 13. 
Any items remaining after May 13 will be donated to 
a local charity.

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial
Tartan awards 
thistles and thorns
In keeping with Tartan tradition, the following is the an­
nual “Thistle and Thorns Editorial.” Herein we award 
thistles to those we would like to thank, remember and 
emulate for their talent, their selflessness, their sheer style. 
Thorns go to those we would like to... well to those whose 
actions we would just as soon forget.
The first thistles go to Rich Miller, Mouse, Jeff Muller, Theta Xi and the Greeks, and everyone who contributed 
to the MS fund-raising drive. You’re all incredible.
Actors Haid, Bosson, Foxworth and Auberjonois get 
thorns for backing out on a professional commitment only 
hours before show-time, disappointing their fans here at 
Carnegie Mellon.
Jackie Granger, Chairman of the 1986 Spring Carnival, 
deserves a thistle for putting in all that time and effort 
so that we could have a memorable Spring Carnival.
WRCT gets a big thorn for playing offensive music and 
having fake orgasm contests on the Midway during Car­
nival. Come on, guys, have some taste.
A thisde goes to graduating senior, Karen Lee, for 
bringing her energy and enthusiasm into her role as Stu­
dent Government President.
A thorn goes to the Devon Road residents for whining 
about the fraternity parties. What did you expect when 
you bought a house behind a bunch of fraternities?
The football and track teams get thistles for their con­
tinued excellent performances in the 1985-86 season.
The City of Pittsburgh-a thorn for being contrary about 
buggy permits and about the traffic situations on cam­
pus, particularly Forbes Avenue and Margaret Morrison 
at Tech Street.
Spirit gets a thistle for their spirit. They proved to be 
the heroes of this year’s buggy races.
ATO gets a thorn for mucking up the stage during 
Greek Sing.
Every student involved in an extra-curricular activity 
gets a thistle for closing his/her books for a while and 
realizing that there’s more to life than academics.
Housing-a thorn for allowing some of the dorms to be 
trashed over semester break, during the wiring for the 
computer network.
Thistles go to Carnegie Mellon and the University of 
Pittsburgh for cooperating in the acquisition of the Cray 
computer.
A thorn to everyone who complained about the con­
tent of the Tartan Comics. It is interesting that no one 
took like offense to material in the nationally-syndicated 
and generally accepted Bloom County comics.
A big thistle to Mr. and Mrs. Powell for everything in­
cluding the most incredible chocolate chip cookies ever.
And finally, we give both a thistle and a thorn to the 
students for protest-a thistle for caring what happens and 
managing to be heard on a sometime deaf campus, a 
thorn for getting on everyone’s nerves.
The Tartan board realizes that it has probably over­
looked many who deserved mention in this editorial. For 
all those who deserved thistles but were unintentionally 
left out, please consider yourselves thanked. For all those 
who deserved thorns, but were unintentially forgotten, con­
sider yourselves intentionally forgotten.
Illustration by Michael P. McHugh
Letters:Student criticizes 6CSC’ coverage
Editor:
I would like to defend the actions 
of the alumni who I feel were unjust­
ly criticized in the Tartan editorial 
of April 22. I do not feel that 
“Carnegie Salutes Carnegie” was the 
unrivaled flawless production that 
the Tartan so enthusiastically claim­
ed. It has one big flaw as far as I’m concerned—that flaw was the pro­
paganda for the capital campaign, 
which the production so convenient­
ly, or should I say schemedly, kick­
ed off. Mixing requests (that the 
“friends and alumni of the universi­
ty” dig into their pockets) for dona­
tions along with the performances of 
the students and professionals 
cheapened the effect of the evening 
considerably.
The student performers did a very 
fine job; the acts that were perform­
ed exhibited the talent of all of the 
students involved. They truly ex­
emplified the rewarding accomplish­
ment of a Carnegie Mellon Fine Arts Education and performed a fitting 
tribute to Andrew Carnegie. I failed 
to see fair use of the talent of the stu­
dent performers standing in for the 
absent alumni however; even if the 
alumni had performed their parts, 
they were just that—parts— scripted 
accomplishments and pro­
university propaganda. Not to say that the student performers did not 
read their parts well, they did a good 
job acting, but I do not see where 
their part in “Carnegie Salutes 
Carnegie” could possible gain them 
any recognition as an upcoming 
star—a stand-in for a notable actor 
in a memorable role (as the producer 
Bob Finkel so humble joked at the 
celebration).
I have no doubt that the per­
formers had good reason to drop out 
of their commitment to the show; I 
don’t think that the need for publicity 
or Carnegie Mellon’s connections 
with the DoD were their primary or 
only reasons, however. I think that 
their reasons were professional as 
well as conscientious. I realized this 
when I heard the speeches of the 
student performers in the stead of 
the alumni. These propoganda 
speeches that the the drama students
delivered to the audience would 
have been an embarassment and an 
abuse of the alumni actors’ talents. 
They were even an abuse of the stu­
dent actors’ talents—I was em- 
pathetic as I sat in the audience and 
listened to the groans and hisses of 
disapproval as the student actors 
asked for money for the university 
that was presenting this “gala.”
The actors accepted the invitation 
to participate in this event, true, but 
were they informed at that time that 
they were going to be plugging a 
capital campaign for the university? 
If they accepted the invitation to per­
form with the understanding that 
they would be used as a pawn in the 
propaganda of the university then I 
am truly wrong in my assump­
tions but I have a very strong feeling 
that I am not. Perhaps the alumni 
performers would would have been 
more enthusiastic if they had been 
allotted time to perform rather than 
act as a two minute fund-raising 
commercial. Before the Tartan is too 
harsh on the alumni who accepted 
the invitation to perform and backed 
out in the last hours (probably when 
they were informed of their part in 
the show) think of all of the other in­
vitations which were probably sent 
to other alumni and not accepted; I 
don’t think either group of per­
formers has any less affection for 
their alma mater and respect for the 
education they received here.
The Tartan was crass and callous 
to send the message “thanks for 
nothing” to the performers who did 
not wish to participate in the 
Carnegie Mellon exploit-a-thon. This 
shows a very narrow-minded view on 
the part of all the editors holding this 
sentiment. This inability to respect the 
opinions and actions of others, for 
whatever reasons, is distinctively 
biased. I find it easy to believe that 
the editors and writers of the Tartan 
would not want to make waves with 
the administration, especially on 
something as important as a capital 
campaign, or else they may not get 
VIP seats or exclusive access to the 
next important event. These 
privileges come with the job, I 
realize, I only urge them to take off
their green colored glasses and ex­
press the students’ views—get the 
news from a student’s point of view,
It was probably hard for the 
members of the Tartan to hear the 
comments and expressions of 1 
discontent from the students on the 
third tier balcony of the Civic Arena 
from their table on the floor in front ; 
of the stage but I heard them; I was I 
there, as a student. The students 
were there to celebrate their univer- j 
sity and have a good time, not to be 
anolher token representation in an 
administrative ploy to promote the 
image and increase the budget of' * 
Carnegie Mellon. I enjoyed the peo­
ple of “Carnegie Salutes Carnegie” 
but I feel that I speak for more than 
one student when I say that the pur- j j 
pose was its pitfall.
Peter W. Lonsky
Junior
H&SS Senator
Editor’s note: The representatives of 
the Tartan sat in the press section 
along with all of the other represen­
tatives of the media, not at a table 
in front of the stage. Secondly, the 
performers who withdrew from the 
event were not innocent to the nature 
of their roles in the show. They were 
aware of what part they would play, 
and even went through full rehearsals 
before withdrawing. Also, the money 
raised for this show is not to be used 
in the Software Engineering Institute; 
it will be used to improve facilities on 
campus.
Producer
thanks
Editor:I would like to take this opportuni­
ty to thank the students and faculty 
of Carnegie Mellon for their help and 
support for “Carnegie Salutes 
Carnegie.” It is obvious ihis 
memorable event could never have 
become a reality without y«ur 
support.You made an old alum’s heart 
swell with pride.
Bob Finkel 
Class of 1940

---------------------------------------------------

April 29, 1986—The Tartan—Page 9
Congrats to the Class of ‘86; thanks to the involved few
by Lisa McAnany
The Tartan staff and I would like to con­
gratulate the graduating class of 1986. We hope 
that your time at Carnegie Mellon provided fun 
and valuable and useful experiences. In par­
ticular, I would like to call attention to and thank 
some of the individuals in the class 
of ’86 who gave time and effort to 
extra-curricular activities. I’m sure 
you know some of these dedicated 
people. They are the ones you may have heard 
saying, “What do you mean QPA? There are 
booths to be built here,” or, “Exams? Forget 
it. Somebody has to run the movie projector.” 
Without these people, there would be no con­
certs, no movies, no Greeks, no Student Govern­
ment, and yes folks, no Spring Carnival. Face 
it, we owe these people some thanks.
Mike Cormier: Spring Carnival Midway 
Chairman. Mike is happy to have brought as 
many booths to Midway as there can possibly 
be. He admits the school has its problems, but 
if he had to do it all over again, he’d still come to Carnegie Mellon.
Nancy Dilulio: varsity basketball captain, 
vice president of the Carnegie Involvement 
Association, pusher for three years for the CIA 
women’s buggy team, president of the American 
Chemical Society Student Affiliates, Carnegie 
Mellon chapter. In reflecting on her time here, 
Nancy emphasizes the importance of Spring 
Carnival because “It is the only activity that a 
large number of students really get involved with.”
Karen Lee: President of StudentGovernment.
Jonathan Marom: Activities Board 
Chaiman, president of Delta Upsilon, Faculty 
Senate Student Advisory Committee, Board of 
Trustees, Core Curriculum Committee. Jon is 
proudest of his fraternity and his office as presi­
dent of it. He stresses the importance of 
students, “Getting interested in something 
besides studying, and having some say in what goes on in the university.”
Rich Miller: Chairman of the Carnegie 
Mellon MS fund-raising drive, ATO brother, 
Donner RA, varsity football letter. Rich is pro­
ud of having won the M-TV concert, and hav­
ing educated people about MS, “I’m very pro­
ud of Carnegie Mellon for doing this and get­
ting the rewards.” Being from a small Mid­
western town, Rich likes Pittsburgh because it 
has different kinds of coffee. Well Rich, may 
your life be filled with Irish Creme and Royal Kona.
Jeff Muller: Jeff, perhaps better known 
around campus as Morris Day, is proud to be 
helping people through the MS fund-raiser. He 
is also rpoud to be graduating from Carnegie Mellon. Congradulations on having made it 
through the first round of the M-TV national 
rock-alike competition. What Time is it?
Mike Paterchak: All-PAC varsity football for four years.
Cliff Sharpies: President of the Scotland Yard Pub.
Steve Winawer: AB Concerts, AB Tech, 
Tartan photo editor, Thistle editor, Spring Car­
nival. Steve is most proud to have been involv­
ed with the MS air band competition
In my limited scope, I’m unfortunately sure 
that I have forgotten or over-looked some in­
dividuals who, by virture of their contributions, 
deserved to be included here. For that, I hear­
tily apologize. I also apologize for having more 
information on some members of this list. I ran 
into trouble contacting everyone since it is a 
busy point in the semester. Let it be known, 
however, that the efforts of anyone who tried
The Editorial appearing at the beginning of the 
opinion section is the official opinion of The Tar­
tan editorial board. Columns are the opinions 
of individual authors who are not necessarily on 
The Tartan Editorial Board or Staff. Letters to 
the Editor are opinions of individual authors who 
are usually members of the llniverity communi­
ty. A letter intended for publication must be sign­
ed and include the writer’s address and phone 
number for verification. Names will be withheld 
upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to 
condense or reject any letter.
to make Carnegie Mellon a more enjoyable place to be do not go unnoticed or unap­
preciated. Also, even the most casual members 
of all extra-curricular student organizations 
should be thanked and congratulated for realiz­
ing that their is more to life that problem sets 
and exams. You will be better people for hav­
ing found that something more to life.
Copyright © 1986 by The Tartan. The 
Editorial Board reserves the right to withhold 
from publication any copy it deems unfit for 
publication.
Office: Skibo 50. (412) 268-2111.
Mailing address: The Tartan
Carnegie Mellon University 
Box 17
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
Funded by the Activities Fee All rights 
reserved.
Columnist sums it all up
Administration seeks to please
Editor:
In response to the recent letter in The Tar­
tan, I wanted the writer to know that David 
Maloney, Director of Alumni Relations, his staff 
and I all share a number of the same concerns 
that the writer had about this year’s Senior Ban­
quet. We will work diligently with students, 
alumni and other members of the administra­
tion to address these concerns and put together
What about 
Midway?
Editor:
It seems amazing to me that The Tartans 
Spring Carnival: A look back” looked back 
past almost all of the midway. With the excep­
tion of the famed Gravitron and Lambda Sigma, 
the rest of the midway seems to be of minor significance.
The Tartan, in its somewhat obtuse way, has 
made a mockery of over thirty organizations who 
built booths, and a spring carnival committee 
which put endless amounts of effort into the 
weekend. The individual booth chairmen, the 
members of the carnival committee, Anne Wit- 
(hner, Activitees Board, and SDC put a lot of 
work into carnival. These people deserve more 
credit than they ever receive; yet The Tartan 
ignored their efforts.
The paper had some very nice pictures of 
uggy, and even more of people sitting around 
°n Vari°us walls on campus. It would have been 
*'r'K e to have seen some pictures of children stan- I 'ng on line to see D.U.’s Emerald City or 
* s Indiana Jones. The lack of pictures and 
short synopsis of the midway is an insult to 
' time and effort of the participating organiza­
tions and I, for one, am again dissapointed in 
The Tartan.
Jonathan T. Marom 
Chairman of the Activitees Board
a somewhat different format for next year’s ban­
quet. I know that this does little to assuage the 
feelings of any of those who were disappointed 
in this year’s banquet. We all learn from our 
experiences, and I would like to say to those 
who were disappointed in this year’s banquet 
that we will keep your criticisms in mind when 
planning next year’s banquet.
On a positive note, David Maloney has receiv­
ed a number of thank-you notes from students 
who appreciated the effort and enjoyed the 
evening.
I am somewhat concerned though with the 
writer’s opinion that no one cares about the 
students. As a parent of two graduates of this 
university, I believe that indeed the university 
cares very much about the students, does work 
them very hard, and does send everyone out 
of here with an education that in almost every 
respect is superior to what they would have got­
ten at all but a handful of universities in this 
country. I hope that as each senior has a chance 
to reflect on his or her experience here he or 
she will realize that in fact, the university did 
care very much about the main mission that it 
had to perform which is ensuring that each sut- 
dent receive an outstanding education.
On behalf of the entire Development Division, 
I want to wish the Senior Class all the best. I 
also want to thank all those in the senior class 
that have helped the Development Division dur­
ing the past four years as Telethon volunteers. 
I don’t know what we would have done without 
you. You have been a very big help, and we 
look forward to again receiving your help as 
dedicated alumni.From time to time I receive reports from 
various employers about how outstanding the 
young Carnegie Mellon alumni are that come 
to work for them. I hope that in the next year 
or so when I talk to some of your employers, 
I get the same response from them about you.
Best wishes.
Alvin P. Brannick 
Vice President for Development
by Dan Tobias
For the last four years, I have been writing col­
umns for the Tartan, under six different editors- in-chief. But now it is time form me to move on, 
so this will be my last column. (Stop cheering 
out there!)
Over that time period, I wrote 
about quite a few different things. 
In my freshman year, I did a 
number of columns recounting the past history 
of CMU, as recorded in issues of The Tartan 
from 1907 up to the 1970’s. Later on, I turn­
ed to my own personal opinions. Some of these 
were on campus matters, such as course 
registration and 15-111 (Introduction to Com­
puting) course policies. However, since my 
strongest and most important opinions are on 
political matters, that is what I wrote most of 
my columns on.
As you probably know if you’ve read my col­
umns, my political columns are based on a 
Libertarian perspective. Libertarians favor in­
dividual liberties in both social and economic 
areas. This nation was founded on individual 
liberty, and Libertarians wish to return to that 
tradition by undoing the trend of statism over 
the last century.
There is no place on the conventional political 
spectrum for people who favor liberty. Conser­
vatives play some lip service to economic liber­
ties (although this often seems to translate into 
subsidies and favors to big business rather than 
a true free enterprise system), while working to 
erode the rights of consenting adults to engage 
in whatever noncoercive behavior they wish 
when it violates whatever “common morality” 
they wish to enforce. Meanwhile, liberals occa­
sionally defend personal liberties against those 
who would censor and suppress in the name 
of “morality” (although some left-wing feminists 
are currently jumping on the anti-pornography 
bandwagon in an unholy alliance with the New 
Right), but favor governmental redistribution of 
income and other assaults on the free enterprise 
system.
Thus, Libertarians differ from conventional 
politicians of the left and right. Far from being 
“impractical” and “radical”, libertarianism
may actually be more in tune with the thinking 
of current-day Americans than the 
“mainstream” positions. Various surveys have 
shown that a large portion of the “Baby Boom” 
generation is conservative on economic matters; 
they wish to keep what they earn and resent the 
escalating tax bills; but at the same time they 
are liberal on social issues because they don’t 
wish to have “morals” squads busting down 
their doors to intervene in “victimless” consen­
sual acts. This view is not adequately 
represented by the Republican or Democratic 
parties. Libertarianism is a viable option for 
these people, and we of the Libertarian move­
ment hope to attract greater support in the 
future as we grow in popularity and influence.
If you wish to get active in promoting liberty, 
you have many options. You might wish to get 
involved in the Libertarian Party to promote 
libertarianism through the political process. Or 
you might wish to join one of various non­
political organizations such as Advocates for 
Self-Government, which specialize in educating 
the public about libertarian philosphy rather 
than directly campaigning or lobbying. Or you 
might shun all organizations and simply work 
as an individual, making your views known to 
your friends, relatives, congressmen, and the 
letter columns of newspapers. The more Liber­
tarian ideas are express, the more the public 
will get familiar with them; in time this might 
produce a countervailing influence to the enor­
mous amount of propaganda and hysteria pro­
moted by the government and moralist groups 
seeking governmental support.My activities in the Libertarian movement will 
not end with my graduation; I expect to increase 
my participation. I hope some of you who sym­
pathize with the ideas I have express also decide 
to get active, either individually or in groups, 
to bring about a renewed spirit of liberty in 
America. If even one of you does so. I’ll feel 
that all the work I have put into producing these 
columns, and all the vicious abuse I have receiv­
ed from opponents, was worth it. Goodbye, now; 
I hope to see you at the next Libertarian Party 
convention, in Seattle, Washington in 
September, 1987.The Tartan
Olve Peersen
Lisa D. McAnany
Editor-in-Chief
John Friedmann
Managing EditorBusiness Manager
Vijay ReddyJoshua M. LevineBruce Kasrel
News EditorFeatures EditorEntertainment EditorJill DorsonJack PollerMichael P. McHugh
Sports EditorPhotography EditorArt EditorAlbrecht T. PowellCeleste ClarkKathryn A. Sitter
Production ManagerAd ManagerTypesetting ManagerJohn BabichMohan EmbarDave Levy
Dossier EditorContributing EditorTartan Assistant

---------------------------------------------------

Last week, this year, to come to
Only open this Wednesday through Saturday
From 4pm until 2am.
Then the doors close until May 14th when...
We open for 
Summer Lunches!! 
Monday through Friday 
11am until 3pm
Cool off under the palm tree.

---------------------------------------------------

FeaturesApril 29, 1986—The Tartan—Page 11
It’s FUN to RAISE Adorable PET
By JOSHUA M. LEVINE
Tartan Features Editor
Welcome to the exciting and fulfilling world 
of Sea Monkeys! You are about to embark on 
what may be the most enjoyable, and educa­
tional, journeys of your adult life. Sea Monkeys 
are, of course, the perfect pets, but more than 
that, they are your friends. Unlike the more con­
ventional pets, dogs and cats for example, who 
simply take your food and turn around and soil 
the carpet, Sea Monkeys are loyal, trusting, 
cheap, and clean. All they ask is a little Food 
Formula and your love, but in return they will 
give you their loyalty, their chastity, and endless 
hours of enjoyment.
What are Sea Monkeys? Sea Monkeys are 
really tiny Brine Shrimp, however don’t confuse 
them with their distant cousins, often served at 
Beefstake Charlie’s. Sea Monkeys are cute, wit­
ty, and bright. A product of modern genetic 
engineering, each Sea Monkey represents 
YEARS of research and developement. For 
many generations, Sea Monkeys have been bred 
for speed, charm, and good looks, resulting in 
the current hybrid species. Yet, Sea Monkeys 
are still reasonably priced. The wonders of mass 
production have kept costs down, to where even 
the average student can afford to keep a cou­
ple Sea Monkeys around the dorm without 
financial burden.
What do I do with my AMAZING Sea
Port-a-Pet- With this compact, PEN SIZ­
ED aquarium you can take your Sea Monkey 
freinds with you! Arrange exciting field trips 
for your microscopic mavericks. Take them 
to parties for fun, or even bring them to 
school for Show and Tell. You’ll make lots 
of new freinds because EVERYONE loves Sea 
Monkeys! Comes complete with an exclusive 
Leak-Proof cap.
Students
Monkeys? Belive it or not, Sea Monkeys are 
believed to be the most INTELLIGENT of all 
marine invertibrates! This means that with a lit­
tle patience, you can actually teach them to do 
TRICKS for you and your friends. Imagine how 
impressed GIRLS will be when your Sea 
Monkeys actually OBEY your commands! And 
the unbelievable part is that your Sea Monkeys 
actually ENJOY being exploited, they are tiny 
performers craving for attention, and they do 
ANYTHING to get it. Why your Sea Monkeys 
are so maliable, that you can even HYP- 
MOTIZE them!
But Sea Monkeys are survivers. If you forget 
to feed your whimpy Goldfish, they DIE. Sea 
Monkeys, however, never die. I have often ac- 
cedently deprived my Sea Monkeys of food and 
water, but the buggers take a licking and keep 
on swimming. This makes Sea Monkeys the 
IDEAL companion for the student who wants 
a pet but can’t always be around to care for it.
Where can I get my very own LIVE Sea 
Monkeys? Sea Monkeys can be ordered from 
Transcience Corp., PO Box 809, Bryans Rd., 
MD 20616. Transcience also carries a host of 
Sea Monkey paraphenalia. I have included brief 
descriptions of the items I feel every Sea 
Monkey owner should have. Have a BLAST!
Mating Powder- For those shy, “bachelor” 
Sea Monkeys who fear marriage, this 
fabulous formula quickly puts them in the 
mood for love. Its stimulates the mating urge 
so they will make LOTS of those adorable 
baby Sea Monkeys you’re dying to have!
Super Food- This vitamin rich formula will 
turn those sea-runts in every tank into strong, 
frisky devils. Also makes normal adult Sea 
Monkeys EVEN LARGER. Works practica- 
ly ovemight\
Sea Dimonds- When nothing is too good for 
your Sea Monkeys. Sea Dimonds are realy 
minuture toys for your aqua-freinds. Sea 
Dimonds are made of a special space-age 
plasic that CAN NOT harm your fragile 
pets. They love to toss around their Sea 
Dimonds and will even play £atch with each 
other!
Aqua-Leash- At last an effective way to deal 
with those troublesome Sea Monkeys that just 
REFUSE to co-operate. This is the ultimate 
Sea Monkey handling device. Simply 
aprehend the scoundral with a suction he 
can’t refuse! Just a few minutes of “solitary 
confinement” and your trubble-maker will 
want to return to his tank. He is, of course, 
unharmed, but he’ll have a very new out look 
on life.
UFO Sails Across the Cut
by ALBRECHT T. POWELL
Tartan Production Manager
“Oh my God, Carnegie Mellon has out done 
themselves again, they probably spent several 
million on that new flying lawn-mower’ ’... “ naw, 
it’s another new Pittsburgh sci-fi movie - Attack 
of the Martian College Killers or The Thing that 
ate Skibo”
Actually, that weird contraption that was seen 
briefly flying about campus on Thursday is the 
innovation of four students in the Mechanical 
Engineering department as their class project.
Their hovercraft is the brainchild of John 
Detillo, Chris Gerace, Ed Wen, and Wilbur • 
Chung. Designed this semester in the Senior 
Mechanical Engineering class, Engineering 
Design, as their required project, the hovercraft 
is an actual working and flying device design­
ed to illustrate many of the principles learned 
and developed over their four years.
John Detillo commented that, “We wanted 
to build something ambitious...something that 
we could show off to people...a project that we 
could point to and say, It’s ours’. Pilot Chris 
Gerace added that, “After four years in this 
place, it is really nice to be able to look at 
something like this and say, this is part mine 
... and to have something that shows the time 
spent here.
The idea for the hovercraft surprisingly came 
over a casual dinner at Christmas. Someone 
suggested in a very sarcastical manner, “Why 
not build a hovercraft.” These four young men 
didn’t take it as sarcasm and forged ahead with 
plans, designs, and high hopes.
The project took all of their last senior 
semester, with the design process taking over 
two months. “All we had for a project was 
pieces of paper until only a month or so ago. 
That’s when we started building, and building 
fast.” said pilot Chris Gerace. They did have 
a little help on their project, a five year old 
videotape of another group who had tried a
complete failure [on Thursday] in front of alot 
of people, so we took it out in the dark with no 
lights, that was scary,” commented Detillo.
When the decision came to who would test 
“fly” the craft (they consider it flying, but con­
test they don’t need a FAA license), Chris 
Gerace was selected, not on aptitude in flight, 
but only for his weight (or relative lack thereof). 
They have estimates on amount of weight it 
could carry, but wanted the first flight to be with 
the lightest of the four.
The controls for the craft are relatively sim­
ple, a foot rudder bar to ccitrol steering, and 
a throttle to control speed. Gerace said that “it 
is a little scary...since you have no ground fric­
tion, when you change direction, momentum 
swings you around, and you have alot of cor­
rection to do. Other than that, it’s alot of fun.”
That was evidenced by their flights on Thurs­
day. They began with just a tense and quick 
jaunt up and down the cut to prove its workabili­
ty. That quickly escalated into a very happy 
Gerace freeriding all over the cut, turning, and 
executing many varied maneuvers.
The plans for the hovercraft’s future are stil 
as yet uncertain. There is a possibility that they 
may modify it with an inflatable tube surroun­
ding the craft for use on water. The four do noi 
know if they will keep the machine, since the 
engines belong to the Mechanical Engineering 
department. There will be another series of 
flights, probably on Friday when all four 
members will get to operate the craft.
The group estimates it could support up to 
700 pounds. With the craft weighing in at 300 
pounds, that leaves 400 lbs in passengers. Plans 
are underway to possibly outfit it with an addi­
tional seat, however that is still questionable.
Not surprisingly, three of the four engineers 
(Ed, Chris, and Wilbur) are considering enter­
ing career fields in aeronautics, specifically with 
McDonald Douglas Aircraft Corporation, 
however that is not definate. John is taking up 
a position with Corning Glass.
Professor Baumann of the Mechanical 
Engineering department said enthusiastically, 
“this is one of the larger class projects, and 
surely one they will probably always remember.
Oa-
H
-Q
similar project, but had little success.
The hovercraft is basically an aluminum 
frame, made of tubing covered with a fabric 
skirt to help provide the lift. It is raised above 
the ground by one engine mounted in the center 
and propelled forward using a second mounted 
on the rear of the craft. Using wood rudders 
to steer, the craft can ‘float’ on theoretically 
anything, even water.
When they started the actual building pro­
cess, they hit several major problems. The first 
was acquiring materials. The aluminum for the 
frame was provided by Werner Aluminum and 
the engines from the Mechanical Engineering 
department. Another major stumbling block, 
was the welding of the aluminum frame. Ron 
Bennett, assistant professor in the Sculpture 
department, provided his welding services to the 
group. John Detillo commented that, “We 
couldn’t have done it without his help.”
After alot of stationary “hovering in place” 
testing, they finally decided to take it out for 
a spin close to midnight on Wednesday. “We 
wanted to make sure we weren’t going to be a

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12—The Tartan—April 29, 1986The Tartan Eye Turns on Local Radio DJ’s
By OLVE PEERSEN
Tartan Managing Editor
— Well, when he was real young he was a 
prizefighter, but there wasn't much money in it 
bach then. Uncle Reidenauer always said to me 
the hardest thing about fighting was picking up 
your teeth with a boxing glove on.
—Sounds like he's led an awfully colorful life. 
—Heck yea! Back in the 1930's he went to Africa 
and get a job as a guide for one of them there 
big game hunts. Didn't last too long cause one 
day he was leading a hunt for elephants he had 
to quit because he got a hernia from carrying 
them there decoys. %
This is only typical of the type of material 
found daily on the WDVE “Morning Alter­
native,” hosted by Steve Hansen and Jimmy 
Roach. For the last four years these two have' 
been entertaining the Pittsburgh audience with 
their mix of music, jokes, and last night’s news.
According to Steve, the morning show strives 
to be different from all the rest. “I’m kind of 
on the side that if we don’t think of it ourselves 
we shouldn’t be allowed to do it. Not that we 
don’t borrow a joke here or there, but the big 
stuff we should do. If somebody had a great idea 
they deserve credit for that idea, but I don’t 
think we should go ahead and do it and say 
‘This is our idea,”’ says Steve. Jimmy stresses 
“showing some originality or a little thought. I’ll 
be gosh darned if I’m going to make one of my 
many free personal appearances to back 
somebody else’s idea up. Having Steve around 
keeps you from doing things like that because 
he’s creative and inventive and is insulted by 
things that are trite and overdone. That is one 
good thing about the approach we use in the 
morning - it is different, definitely different from 
anything you’re going to hear anywhere else.” 
The show often provokes public comment, as 
when Randy Thomas of the Pittsburgh Penguins called them up to straighten out the morning’s 
discussion of who would have to win, lose, or
tie how many games for the Pens to make it in­
to the playoffs. The discussion which prompted 
the phone call is only typical of the show’s 
tendency to get carried away with a subject to 
the point where Jimmy and Steve need public 
input to set the record straight.
On the subject of the station’s news coverage, 
Steve says that the station has a “Jimmy and 
Steve will handle it philosophy, which means 
who needs a gosh darned wire machine or a 
newsman. You’ve got the Post Gazette.” Jim­
my mentions that they try to listen to other sta­
tions (which shall remain unnamed) on their way 
to work each morning so as to pick up some 
of what happened in the outside world, and he 
picks up a morning Post Gazette and USA To­
day as the station’s only ways of getting news. 
“When the space shuttle Challenger blew up, 
I had to call the station, or they wouldn’t have 
found out about it until two hours later when 
everybody already knew,” says Jimmy. Accor­
ding to Steve, the station’s view on the matter 
is that not having a news wire and person “is 
saving a buck, but we can still write it down and 
say to the FCC that we did news.”
Asked how they started in the business, Steve 
responds “An alarm clock is how I get started, 
and a good cup of coffee. Seriously, in my case, 
and I think in Jimmy’s too, it was kind of a lack 
of aptitude for work. On the career aptitude tests 
Jimmy didn’t register, I know for sure. They 
said ‘you get the janitorial work. He’s one of 
those guys that third time through the sixth 
grade they finally let him work with a janitor 
all day.”’ Jimmy comments that “the only way 
I was able to pass that is that back then it was 
before plastic bags. Now a janitor has to know 
how to put those in an tuck them around the 
edges. Now, I never had to study that.”
More seriously, Jimmy clears the mystery. “I 
was always interested in music and like radio 
tune. One time when I was out in the Gladiola 
field I thought ‘Boy, this sure beats working in
the Gladiola field,’ you know, because you’re 
just sitting there yacking away. It doesn’t seem 
like a job. I did it as a hobby in college and 
then it did kind of come to that point where I 
couldn’t get any kind of a job and that was the 
only thing I had to show for myself - so I was 
able to get a job working in a radio station.” 
Since his days at the University of Minnesota, 
Steve has spent time working in Hawaii, San 
Francisco, and Atlanta as a waiter, security 
guard, and temporary secretary, just to name 
a few. Jimmy tells the story of one of the times 
Steve was broke and hungry in Hawaii and 
“walked into a supermarket on the beach in a 
winter coat and proceeded to fill it full of ham 
and turkey until he looked like Nikita Khruschev 
walking up to the counter to buy a pack of gum. 
The girl at the counter looked at him with sad 
doggy eyes and said ‘That’ll be ten cents’ with 
a smile and let him go.”
Steve
Jimmy
Jimmy was in broadcasting school at Career 
Academy when he received an offer from 
WDVE about thirteen years ago. “I quit about 
half-way through because I got a job in radio, 
and they were so amazed somebody from the 
school got a job that they wanted to make me 
a teacher, because I got a job that my teacher 
applied for. The guys who teach broadcasting 
school are there because they can’t get a job 
in broadcasting, so they teach you how to do it.” 
They made you study blocked programming 
time, like in the 40’s on radio where there’d 
be ‘And now Carnation milk time’ or ‘Now fif­
teen minutes of popular classics.’ It was the
greatest and had nothing to do with radio,” con­
tinues Jimmy.
The two met in Atlanta while Jimmy, who was 
then a WDVE program director, was down 
there on vacation. He hired Steve, and when 
he returned to Pittsburgh the station said “you 
hired him, you work with him.” About a year 
and a half later Steve took off to San Francisco 
where he for four years held assorted odd jobs. 
Jimmy brings up the “security guard with a 
sleep schedule in the different offices down to 
a science” job, while Steve is most proud of the 
book he wrote, The Other Guide to San Fran­
cisco. The book features some normally not 
seen parts of the City by the Bay, such as the 
best nude beaches and the Patti Hurst escape 
map with all the closets she hid in. However, 
“the escape chapter has been deleted from the 
later printings because the Hurst family, who 
owns the Chronicle, which publishes the book, 
didn’t want it in there,” says Steve. He tired 
to stand up for journalistic rights, but that 
“quickly ended after about four seconds when 
the publisher said ‘It’s been nice having your 
little f— book on our publishing list.’”
Steve then came back to Pittsburgh four years 
ago when Jimmy got his own morning show, and 
the “WDVE Morning Alternative” has been 
around ever since. Part of the agreement was 
that “Jimmy makes it in first in the morning to 
warm up the transmitter and then Steve makes 
an entrance. Jimmy rolls out the red carpet, 
trumpets start, the naked girls come in, and then 
Steve walks in.”
Commenting on why they have stayed in the 
radio business, Steve says “Everything we’ve 
done is like vaporized and being listened to by 
Martians right now. That’s kind of kept us in 
the radio trade, and Jimmy just has that deep 
malonic voice, he’s one of what you call your 
naturals.” Steve, however, “is one of those 
career .210 hitters that sits on the bench a lot 
and studies the game,” says Jimmy.
free walk-in tutoring program 
•ach W00k
» Mewweed Oedew. I le«w *2W
Sunday thru thursday 7pm—10pm
Calculus PH - 126A
Pro I, H. HI
Physics PH - 126B
Chemistry PH - 225B
English as a BH -1358
second language
Economics PH - 226B
Intro to Computing WEH-5415
Financial Accounting PH - 226C
Academic Writing Problems BH - 235B
CMU Computer Store
CMU Computer Store: UCC - A levelPhone: x2636 MM: PS00@TE For a current price list: Type HELP COMPUTER-STORE-PRICES on anyTOPS System.Epson FX-85
200 cps.,selectable 
type styles and 
much much more. 
Price:
$361.00

---------------------------------------------------

April 29, 1986—The Tartan—Page 13
Dear Theo,
I have a problem that reoccurs every summer. 
I just don’t seem able to get a suntan. I sit in the blazing 
rays for hours and hours, but I’m lucky if I turn a little 
pink. I’ve even tried rubbing creams, gels, pastes, and egg 
whites on my disgustingly white skin to get it to tan, but 
to no avail. Are there any solutions that you could 
recommend?
Dear Whitey, Caucasian
Oh no! You’re not going to be tan! Holy crap! There goes 
your social life. First off, if you can’t get a suntan, there 
is something dreadfully wrong with you. Anyone who has 
skin can go out and sit on the beach for an hour and at 
least get burned. Secondly, there are more important 
things to worry about than getting a mod tan. Having healthy 
cuticles for one. Quit being so hung up on problems that 
mean absolutely nothing. Get a clue.
^ ^ ^ ^ ^ Theo
Dear Theo,
I was in love, but he broke my heart. Last week, I came 
home with a new hairstyle, thinking I would surprise my 
boyfriend Carl. Did I ever. He said that he really hated 
my haircut and I would look better if I was bald. He told 
me that I had bad breath, too. Then he said that he never 
wanted to see me again and 
stormed out of the house. Like I said, this was last week, 
and I haven’t seen him since. Would you please play “All 
I Need Is a Miracle” by Mike and the Mechanics so I can 
tell Carl how much I want him back?
_ . , LovelornDear Stupid,
I don’t know if anyone has told you this, but I don't have 
my own radio show. I wouldn’t care if you were the only 
fool who wrote in thinking I did, but this is about the sixth 
letter I’ve gotten requesting that song, and it’s getting on 
my nerves. As for your boy problem, get some Listerine 
and let your hair grow out. There, I was even nice enough 
to answer.
Theo
Well, this is the final issue of the Tartan this year. I wasn’t 
around for long but let me tell you I had a good time while 
it lasted. I don’t know what to say about the problems that 
you’re going to have in the next week and during the whole 
summer. I guess I should just tell you to help yourself. You 
always do anyway. Have a swinging summer and don’t take 
any wooden nickels.
Your pal, 
Theo
Gadgets, Gimmics, and Pocketed Bras
By CLIFF MODE
Tartan Staffwriter 
In my never ending search for things to read 
instead of my text books, I have come across 
several mail order catalogs where the strangest 
and always most useless items can be bought. 
Hammacher & Schlemmer and The Sharper 
Image offered some of the higher end merchan­
dise whereas Walter Drake seemed to be for 
the much less affluent. Since it is the end of 
the year, I think it’s only fair that the whole cam­
pus chip in a little to by a gift for each depart­
ment or other outstanding figures on campus. 
My instincts tell me that Dick Cyert is the type 
of guy that would really appreciate a shower 
telephone, only $149.50. For UDS I think their 
very own lobster tank would be nice.“The tank’s 
water temperature is kept between 40 and 45 
degrees Far. to keep lobsters in a healthy, yet 
torpid state.” Torpid lobsters are definitely the 
way to go. This baby sells for only $5350.00. 
For the Physics department, The Galaxy Clock 
would definitely be considerate. The designer 
chose to replace the conventional hands of the 
clock with three planets. You can use stars as 
references as well. This physicist’s dream is only 
$49.00. For your forever lost roommate, The 
Guardian Angel would be great. “Just clip the 
Guardian Angel transmitter to your child’s belt 
or clothing, and keep your monitor in your 
pocket or purse. Then, every 3 to 5 seconds, 
the transmitter sends a silent probing signal to 
the monitor.” This product is intended for a 
mother and child but it would work fine for your 
roommate. It’s only $99.00. Is your roommate 
worth that much? For all incoming freshmen, 
the new Neck-Pil-0 could really make a dif­
ference. “Stop spending half the night searching 
for a comfortable position. Rest your head on 
this revolutionary pillow, and fall into a deep,
blissful, healthful sleep.” For just $49.00 ex­
tra, students can come to CMU and really sleep 
at night.
Just some other things that came to mind 
while reading. The Robotics Institute might want 
to check out this new Rock’n roll robot named 
Crackbot. “No one can keep a straight face 
when Crackbot starts to dance.” For only 
$29.00, the latest in dancing robot tech can be 
yours. “He even hums along.”
For cautious females, there is the secret bra 
pocket, recommended for storing cash and 
jewelry away safely. I don’t know, but if you 
can store jewelry in your bra then something 
just isn’t right. I’m not quite sure what, but 
something definitely is wrong with this. And all 
this time I thought it was just an itch. Only 
$1.19, however a fashion risk.
A battery operated engraver could definitely 
help identify some of your stuff but after reading 
their ad, I’m not sure. “Identify all your 
valuable property” is the headline but the pic­
ture shows some woman engraving a hammer. 
Why? Maybe she should go out in the back yard 
and engrave each blade of grass. Only $3.99.
“Let a microchip water your lawn 
automatically.” This made me think of Father’s 
Day. My father would love a gadget like this. 
You insert the thing between your faucet and 
hose, thereby giving it complete control over 
your lawn. It automatically switches your 
sprinklers on and off. That sounded great but 
then I saw, “The Contouring Programmable 
Sprinkler” and I became confused. Buy both 
and let them fight it out. (footnote Steven 
Wright). $59..00 and $29.95.
Rotary nose hair clippers can brighten 
anyone’s day. This catalog is so desperate that 
they’re advertising two models. You’d be a fool 
not to buy the top of the line nose hair clipper.
This is just common sense. It’s a grooming aid 
you won’t want to be without, or for that mat­
ter, with in public. Some people just don’t have 
a choice. Only $3.99.
“Destroy unsightly tree stumps.” What more 
can life in the U.S. offer us? How many people 
are plagued by this problem? Just pour this 
magical mixture on any tree stump and your 
problems will be history.
When you answer the phone, do you find it 
hard to hear the caller? Well, now there is a 
device to amplify the voice at the other end. I 
don’t know but chances are that if you can’t 
hear someone on the phone, you should be 
wearing a hearing aid regularly. Actually you 
can by a hearing aid from this catalog too. On­
ly $7.99.
How about this for some of the more in­
troverted people on campus. You can buy 
“Software that reveals your sexual self’ so that 
you can finally turn off the computer and go 
out and have a good time. Intracourse asks you 
from 85 to 145 deep and probing questions 
about relationships, fantasies, sexual behavior, 
and specific preferences. I prefer Compaq. In­
tracourse is endorsed by Dr. Joyce Brothers. 
She’s obviously getting royalties. Only $99.00.
In a USAir travel gift catalog, you can order 
a full line of USAir sportswear. They have 
towels, golf bags, luggage, toiletry kits, and even 
small model jets. I’d certainly be proud to carry 
my toothpaste in a bag that bears the emblem 
of that fine airline. For under $200.00 it all can 
be yours to flaunt.
If you like even more useless things, you can 
buy 100 plastic gloves, an electric ice cream 
scoop, the home water still, umbrella hats, the 
cordless card shuffler, the bicycle/lawnmower, 
and many more oddities. I have to go and fill 
out the order form for the nose hair clippers.
S°1
\\s*
sjotot*
For more information return coupon to:
ARIE ROTSHTEIN
ISRAELI COMMUNITY SHALIACH FOR PITTSBURGH 
242 McKEE PLACE
PITTSBURGH, PA 15213 PHONE: 683-7277
Name
Address.
THE FAIRFAX APTS!!
^ WITHIN A FEW BLOCKS OF CMU 
^ REASONABLE RENTAL RATES!
^ THE FINEST HI-RISE IN OAKLAND!
^ "THE FAIRFAX" ...4614 5th AVE.!
^ YOU'RE in our neighborhood, drop in!
Furnished Apts. Available
The management invites the Faculty 
Members, Graduate Students 8- CMU 
Guests to visit and inspect our ONE 
BEDROOM & STUDIO APARTMENTS
Available for immediate occupancy
Dial 621-4030
We'll see YOU at 
THE FAIRFAX" ...Neighbor.
#«

---------------------------------------------------

The Carnegie Tech Radio Club 
Invites You to:
FIELD DAY ’86
Date: June 28 and 29 
Location: Kooser Fire Tower, in the 
Laurel Highlands near Ligonier, PA
What is Field Day?
Radio Communications Under 
Simulated Emergency Conditions
National Competition Between 
Amateur Radio Operators
Important Preparation for Disaster Situations: Tornadoes, Floods, Fires, etc.
- OPEN TO ALL —
— OBSERVE AND PARTICIPATE —
Contact AR99@TD or Call x4532 for Further Information
Funded by Activities Feer uy UVÌUG& rttt:
10 CUT LARGE PIZZA 
i & 2 UTER PEPSI
$3.50
THEnApi
p|ZZA^ »Y
Vr*!£|!
3415 f°;,tS£ÍxZ^
^______ 681-2202 or 681-2203

---------------------------------------------------

¡3 PIZZA ^PIZZA •PIZZA «PIZZA
^ 810 IVY STREET682-3333
rnrr n^liw^rw ^ PM-1 AMFREE Delivery Sunday 12 pm-12 am 
We sell pizza by the slice
NN
<
NN
SPECIAL: Order $1000 or 
more and get a coupon lor 
FREE $3 Cheese Pizza.
LARGE $
PIZZA
FREE
iter of Coke With Purchase Of Large Pizza
K
>
R
>
SENIORS!!
We are almost finished with our 
college days! I want to thank all of 
those seniors that have pledged to 
this year’s senior gift. The outdoor 
recreation and meeting area is 
becoming a reality.
While many of you have pledg­
ed your support, we are still 91 
pledges away from our goal. Please 
call X2021 or stop by Grey Matter 
Tuesday or Thursday from 12-3 and 
pledge to the senior gift.
Again, thanks to those of you 
who have pledged. Lets make this 
year’s gift something the Class of 
’86 will be proud of for years.
Robin Rosen
’86 Senior Gift Chariman
Attention Student 
Chairpersons/Officers
If you would like to plan for the Fall Activities Fair, 
please fill out the following information and return 
it to the Skibo Info Desk c/o Anne Witchner, Direc­
tor of Student Activities.
Name:____________________
Position:_________________
Organization:_________
Summer Address: 
Phone Number: _
Information about the fair will be sent to you over 
the Summer.
Have a GREA T Summer ! !

---------------------------------------------------

GRADUATESicircGk 
FORD
HAS YOUR
PRE-APPROVED 
CREDIT FROM 
FORD CREDITPLUS $400 TOWARD THE PURCHASE OF A NEW FORD
It’s Easy To Qualify
¦ You must receive at least a 
bachelor's degree or a state RN 
license between October 1, 
1985 and September 30, 1986.
¦ You must have verifiable 
employment that begins within 
120 days of your qualifying 
vehicle purchase at a salary 
sufficient to cover ordinary liv- 
ing expenses and your vehicle 
payment.
¦ Your credit record, if you 
have one, must indicate pay­
ment made as agreed.
Ford Motor
Credit
Company
These Vehicles Are 
Included In The Plan
Ford: Escort, Escort EXP,
Tempo, Mustang, Thunderbird 
Ford Truck: Aerostar, Bronco II, 
Ranger, F-150 & F-250
The amount of your pre- 
approved credit is determined
,0-tG£
'¡Sc ppP
Contact: Rich DeNinno 
3696 Wm. Penn Hwy. 
Monroeville, PA 15146 
Phone: (412) 824-0060 
(412) 242-9900
by the qualifying vehicle you buy, 
and you are eligible for the $400 
directly from Ford even if you 
don't finance your purchase. 
Make your best deal and you can 
use the $400 toward your down 
payment or get a check from 
Ford after the purchase or lease.
Hurry. If a vehicle is not in 
dealer stock it must be ordered 
by June 1, 1986, and delivery of 
all vehicles must be taken by 
August 31, 1986. See your par­
ticipating dealer for complete 
program details.
Iciï

---------------------------------------------------

Win streak extended. . .Earlier in the week, the results were markedly 
different. Against Bethany, Carnegie Mellon 
won every event except the javelin, pole vault, 
and triple jump. Winners included: Mike Boyle 
in the shot put, James Kelly in the discus, Steve 
Antonson in the long jump, and Sean Lockhead 
in the high jump.
Other winners were: Stopen in the mile run, 
Bill Corcoran in the 120 high hurdles, Chris 
Chen in the 440 dash, Jeff Luster in the 100 
dash, Gerard in the 440 intermediate hurdles, 
and Paul Mayer in the three mile run, as well 
as the 440 and mile relays.
Against Washington and Jefferson the results 
were similar. The Tartans took 12 of the 17 
events. Winners were: Lloyd on the javelin,
Gerard in the pole vault, and Antonson in the 
triple.This Saturday, the Track Tartans travel to 
Hiram to try to defend their PAC Champion­
ship. According to Meckley, Grove City is the 
team to beat. “Grove City is the favorite, the 
heavy favorite. I don’t think we can get guys 
out of going through the motions in one week. 
I don’t know if the loss will help, they’ve had 
a chance all year to see what’s happening. We 
have the people to do it, I question their heart 
and intensity."
Grove City’s Longnecker was not as sure. 
“First, were going to savor the flavor. I don’t 
underestimate Carnegie Mellon, they're going 
to be better next week.”
April 29, 1986—The Tartan—Page 17Track splits; first dual meet loss since ’78Wolverines attack. . .
Jy STEW LEVINE
| Tartan Staffwriter
Last Wednesday the Tartans extended their 
¡unbeaten dual meet streak to 52 meets by 
¡defeating Bethany 114-31 and Washington and 
Jefferson 107-32. The track squad had not lost 
la meet since 1978. On Saturday, at home, the 
¦Carnegie Mellon Track Tartans lost to Grove Ci- 
|ty 98-47. It was not a surprise. It was not an 
jpset.
Grove City’s plan was very simple as 
¡Longnecker explained, “We will be trying to 
neutralize Carnegie Mellon a little bit better in 
[the track and pull a little ahead in the field. If 
ve can’t do that, we can be beat.”
Grove City did more than neutralize and play
a little bit better, they won both relays, 11 out 
of 15 individual events, and took second in nine 
more. The lone winners for Carnegie Mellon 
were: Jay Glaspy in the high jump at 6’2” and 
one miss, Phil Gerard in the pole vault at 13’0” 
and no misses, Jeff Kochanowski in the 440 
yard dash in 53.0 secs, and Keith Stopen in 
the three mile run in 15:26.50 minutes.
After the meet, Carnegie Mellon Head Coach 
Gary Meckley was clear on how he felt about 
the meet. “I don’t consider this an upset. We 
have the same talent, they wanted to win more 
than we did. The loss was long overdue. The team felt that other teams would roll over and 
play dead. They’re totally out of it, not warm­
ing up, not cooling down. Running is just an 
afterthought, because we’ve always won.”
photo by Albrecht T. Powell
Trackster Damian iMcKnight prepares for the handoff. The squad fell to Grove City last 
Saturday at home.
IA Tartan triple jumper goes the distance during last weekend’s home meet.
this year?
if they do come back, there is a high probabili­
ty that the Bucco relievers will blow the game.
The numbers bear out the fact that the 
bullpen could use some aid. But don't blame Syd Thrift or his predecessor Joe L. Brown. 
Brown dealt an aging Kent Tekulve to the 
Phillies, where he is nothing better than a mid­
dle inning long man. Syd Thrift unloaded A1 
Holland, who the Pirates got for Tekulve, on 
the Yankees. Holland is now pitching for the 
AAA Columbus Clippers.
But if Pittsburgh has someone available for 
trade, Thrift should definitely deal for a short- 
relief pitcher. Cecilo Guante’s on-again, off- 
again performance is not what the Pirates are 
looking for in a stopper, and Pat Clements is 
unproven at best.
ust how much better are the Pirates
HELP AT CRITICAL TIMES
CMU Counseling & Student Development Center.................268-2922
After 5:00 p.m., an answering service operator will help you reach 
the staff member on call.
CONTACT Pittsburgh........................................................................782-4023
24 hour telephone counseling, crisis intervention, and supportive 
listening.
_ ¿.¿sB________photo by Olve Peersen
Hob Berkowitz, captain, and Bob Wharton of the ultimate frisbee team go fur the disk. 
I his past weekend, the team beat Rutgers, Penn State, Princeton and the defending na­
tional champions, the University of Pennsylvania in a tournament. Next weekend, it s 
°n to the regional competitions, which will determine whether the team makes it to the 
national competition.
Drug Connection.............................................................................854-0700
An alcohol/drug crisis hotline, 5 — 9 p.m.
Tel Aid .................................................................................................... 281 4664
A series of taped information on medical, legal, consumer, and safe­
ty issues. Lists of titles appear in the blue pages of the Pittsburghtelephone directory.
Counseling and Student Development Center, a division of Student Affairs.
h JOHN FRIEDMANN
Vartan Business Manager The Pirates are playing better baseball than 
i year ago. That’s a fact few people will argue 
ivith. But how much better are the Buccos? 
’s the question that stirs up debate.If you listen to Jim Ley land and 
Syd Thrift, the New Pirates are the 
greatest thing since sliced bread. 
The players are. generally op-
Itimistic, but th« re’d be cause for concern if they 
I were pessimistic before April was over. The fans 
I seem pleased with the performance of their new 
hardballers, but pr> wrestling at the Arena still 
draws more people. At this stage, most people
seem optimistic, if for no other reason than they 
don’t want to suffer through another debacle 
like last year.There is one essential difference, though. 
Almost everyone on this team has to earn a job 
in the major leagues. There are few complacent 
veterans enduring off-years and hoping to be 
somewhere else next season. Shortstop Sam 
Khalifa is a prime example. Although almost 
sent to AAA during spring training, he has the 
starting shortstop job...for now. His 2 for 25 
start at the plate, however, has earned him an 
at least temporary spot on the bench. Khalifa 
is frank. “I have to hit here to stay in the major 
leagues.”The same applies to the GM and the
manager. Syd Thrift was rescued from real 
estate work in Virginia to head the Pirates, while 
this is Jim Leyland’s first big league managerial 
stint. Leyland accepted a one year contract, so 
if his kiddie corps end up in the minors, he’ll 
end up out of a job.
So far, the team has been promising. Perhaps 
the biggest surprise so far has been “veteran” 
shortstop Johnny Ray who at age 29 is leading 
the league with a .458 average. Rick “I’d rather 
be in Philadelphia” Rhoden has not let his 
unhappiness affect his pitching, and is sporting 
a sterling 1.58 era.
But the team is being outscored 31 - 17 in 
the first and last two innings, which spells two 
things. First, the Pirates must mount a lot of 
comebacks to overcome early deficits, and even

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18—The Tartan—April 29, 1986
PARTS 
REPAIRS 
ACCESSORIES 
PICK-UP —RETURN 
USED "campus cruisers' 
131 -5604
n ¡minded at participating microcomputer centers Winners need 
m<arded List ojtmze uinners obtained by sending sell addressed
at ailtihle at your camfrn mtcroamputer center
photo by Andy Gillespie
Katz wraps up the year 
with his 6pet peeves’
By JAY KATZ
Tartan Staffwriter 
Some pet peeves that I have...
— Some sports just seem to be so infatuated 
with maximizing revenue through all possible 
methods, including making the playoffs longer 
than the regular season and having more teams 
participating in this post season competition than 
the regular season. Most notably, the National 
Hockey League conducts the regular season as 
a race for five teams to be eliminated and then 
has the remaining 16 teams battle in an infinite 
amount of best of seven competitions. I would 
rather see the bottom five teams play. 
—Additionally, do you know anyone who 
gets psyched to watch golf and bowling mat­
ches? If you do, you must know some sad peo­
ple. Those seem to be fun sports to participate 
in, but I really do not see how they were made 
to be spectator sports. I would mind if people 
watched me golf because of the embarassment, 
but at least that would add some comedy to the 
sport.
—If you tell someone that your salary is
$70,000 you will probably be bragging, trying 
to say that you are in an elite classification. 
However, if you happen to be a Major League
Apple puts the 
fun back into student 
demonstrations.
baseball player, you will be laughed at by your 
co-workers and urged to raise a great deal of 
havoc with your boss until he doubles or triples 
your salary. Professional athletes have the right 
to make the money that they do if their owners 
are foolish enough to dish out that cash. 
However, I have no sympathy for those athletes 
who complain because they can’t get that extra 
Thousand and make a big issue about how they 
deserve it.
—Which leads to the point that since these 
players are making top dollar, they should be 
making every effort to perform and maintain 
themselves as well as they can in order to earn 
and justify their salary. If all athletes believe 
in this philosophy, then obviously some think 
that cocaine will somehow make themselves play 
better.
—I can’t stand fans who just follow the win­
ners and have no loyalties to their sports teams 
once they falter. I see too many people who 
jump on the bandwagon once their team 
(becomes good and is shameful of that team once 
it falters. In addition, over-critical, hypocrites 
turn me off. These people tend to turn on even 
their favorite players when they make minor 
mistakes. They must realize that sometimes 
athletes have bad games - don’t they ever have 
bad days?
—Coaches play much too big a role in spor­
ting events, even try to draw the spotlight upon 
themselves. I can see the importance of coaches 
preparing and organizing their teams and keep­
ing a strategy to their players. The reality of it 
is the players play the game, make the decisions 
during the game while the coaches wait and 
whither on the sidelines.
—These coaches also over-rate referee 
miscalls. Refs make mistakes for both sides. 
I am tired of hearing that a team lost a game 
because of bad officiating. If coaches really 
wanted perfect officiating, they should refuse 
benefits from bad calls against the opposing 
team and notify the refs of their mistake. This 
will never happen, trust me.
— I also hate the chances of the local sports 
teams. Since 1979, barely any of the profes­
sional teams have given a glimmer of hope to 
Pittsburgh residents. To put it in a real dismal 
light, I have a better chance of making the 
Dean’s List than seeing one of the local pro 
teams become league champion. In other 
words, there is no hope.
Well I hope my column this year has not caus­
ed any unnecessary deaths. Have a great 
summer.
FIRST TRINITY LUTHERAN CHURCH 
(Missouri Synod)
531 North N’evil Street, Oakland 
(within walking distance of campus)
ADULT BIBLE CLASS: 9:45 AM 
WORSHIP SERVICE: 11:00 AM 
SUNDAY EVENING FELLOWSHIP: 7:30 
PM at parsonage, 535 N. Neville
Pastor Robert Hader 683-4440
All you have to do is march 
yourself down to your campus 
microcomputer center before May 
15th and spend five fun-packed 
minutes letting us demonstrate how 
a Macintosh™ computer can make 
life much more pleasant for you.
In return, well enter your name 
into a drawing where one very 
lucky person on campus will win the 
grand prize of five hundred dollars.
That’s $500. Cash. American. To
spend on your education, or some­
thing really worthwhile.
And, for those of you with the 
average amount of luck, there are 
free Apple® painters caps for every­
one who comes in and learns how 
a Macintosh can help 
you work better, faster, 
and smarter.
It’s one demonstra­
tion that could 
change your life.

---------------------------------------------------

April 29, 1986—The Tartan—Page 19
—--------------------------------------
Intramural Report...SUP A, Earthquakes garner hockey ribbons; PiKA wins track
Dorsonmatches must be completed before exams Special thanks to commissioners Scott Walker, 2-T * tOUghTartan
The spring sports season is coming to a rapid 
close as far as the IM department is concern­
ed. Last week’s action found SUPA defeating 
<appa Sigma for the Majors floor hockey title, 
while the Mexican Earthquakes garnered the 
trophy on the Minors side.
This year’s IM track meet went smoothly 
under the direction of commissioner Paul 
Pecora. Once again, PiKA topped all com­
petitors in the team competition, while their star 
athlete, Jones, broke the tape in the 100, 200, 
and 400 meter runs.
DU took the second place slot, as Collopy took home blue ribbons in both the 800 and mile 
races. House member Tom Bonvisuto topped 
all competitors in the high jump, at five feet six 
inches.
The only independent to take home a first 
place trophy was Pat Muir, as he leapt 16 feet 10 inced i in the long jump.
PiKA’s Jones was voted MVP of the meet for 
the second year in a row.
On the women’s side, CIA virtually dominated 
the meet, as Valerie Sooky and Nancy Dilulio 
copped first place in each of the four events. 
On the track, Sooky was first across the line in 
both the half mile and the mile, while Dilulio 
dominated the field events, winning the long 
jump and the shot put.
SPORTS IN SEASON 
Table Tennis
Commisioner: Stuart Fox x4272
Please finish all matches before finals, and turn
in score sheets to Stuart.
Water Basketball
Commissioner: Mike Goddard x8651 
Please get final match played before exams
Rob Levine, and Mike Grzywinski. 
SPORTS LN THE PAST
Championship games will be played during the 
reading period. Teams are asked to check with 
their respective commissioners for the play-off 
schedule.
Badminton-Co-Rec
Congratulations to the team of LIU and E.J. Bir
CongratuaUions to the new campus champions, dy in their defeat over Mr. LIA and Mrs. Shirley
the Faculty Bulldogs. Birdy. Birdy and LIU are the new campus
„ . . . champs.Badminton
A10 brother Jim Camp lets loose on the pitch. The IM softball play-off will take place this week.
photo by Jack L. Poller
UNDER GLASS
Call Pool
Commissioner: Scott Bale x4314 
In the team competition, DU-A is currently 
leading the play-offs. Congratulations to Pat 
McMullen, the new campus champ.
Indoor Soccer
Commisioner: Vince Carozza 687-9840 
Final games will be played this week. Teams 
are asked to report all scores to the IM office 
and pick up awards.
Ultimate Frisbee
Commissioner: Eric Burgerson x4388
Summer Fall Spring
WASHINGTON 
OR LONDON 
INTERNSHIPS
OXFORD SU1986ER
Full Academic Years In
• Oxford University
• L.S.E.
• St. Andrews, Scotland
U.S. credits will be transferred through Hampden-Sydney College, founded ¡n Virginia by James Madison in 1776. Graduate work is an option. The Director of Studies for the Center for Quality Education Abroad (in Britain) is the Rt. Hon. The Lord Beloff, D.Litt. (Oxon.), Fellow of the British Academy, Professor Emeritus of Government and Fellow of All Souls, Oxford. INQUIRIES TO:JANET KOLLEK.J.D., Admissions Director CQEA/ WISC, Rm 53,158 W. 81 St., NY,NY, 10024.(212-724-0804/724-0136).
Dial 621 l 
-40 34f°
BUDWEISERS »KING OF BEERS«>ANHEUSER BUSCH INC »ST LOUIS

---------------------------------------------------

Tartan Sports
Women7s track 6much improvedposts 114 point victory
By JILL DORSON
Tartan Sports Editor 
The Women’s Track team wrapped up the 
regular season with a good showing last Satur­
day at Robert Morris College. Though the times 
were unofficial, the squad achieved many per­
sonal goals, according to Head Coach Gerri 
Seidl.
Sprinter Kate Harvey had a great day, as she 
topped all competitors in both the quarter and 
half mile events. In the half, she finished with 
her best time ever, at 2:33, qualifying her for 
PAC’s. Behind her in the half, freshman 
Francesca Crannell crossed the line at 2:34.
Crannell added another second to the list, as 
she closed out the mile run just one second 
behind winner Margaret Wismer. Freshman Ro- 
seannna Neupauer took home a red ribbon for 
distance as well, as she placed second in the 
wo mile.
Sprinters Mary Caperick and Eleanor Reid 
Droved their worth also, garnering victories in 
he 110 meter hurdles and 100 meter sprint, 
¦espectively.
Rounding out the sprint side of the meet, the 
our-by-100 relay team broke the tape at 54 
seconds, a finish good enough for second.
In the field, junior thrower Dee Nyzio tossed 
;he shot 33 feet for a blue ribbon, while Susan 
laugh, Lena Weidlinger, and Denise Visconti 
copped second, third, and fourth in the javelin, 
*vith throws of 101 feet, 87 feet nine inches, 
and 87 feet seven inches, respectively.
The tracksters added yet another slash to the 
vin column, last Tuesday, as they more than 
loubled their closest competitor’s score. Robert 
Morris College managed to tally 49 points, but 
he Tartans took full advantage of the home 
rack advantage as they posted an unchalleng- 
¦d 114 points.
The women broke the tape in 10 of the 16 
¡vents, while they placed at least one person 
n the top three of each competition. Standout 
^eslie Williams did her team proud as she took
home three blue and ribbons and two red.
Williams virtually dominated the hurdling 
events, as she broke the tape at 19.8 in the 110 
meter hurdles and 1:20.8 in the 400 meter 
event. Her leap of 13 feet nine inches was 
enough to secure the top slot in the long jump, 
as well.
Veteran trackster Eleanor Reid made her 
mark on the day, as she copped first place 
honors in both the 100 meter dash and the shot 
put. Reid was followed by teammate Lisa 
Ralston in the sprint, while junior Dee Nyzio 
captured the second place spot in the shot.
Distance events proved to be the highlight of 
Margaret Wismer’s outing, as she broke the tape 
in two close races. In the mile run, Wismer 
finished just three seconds ahead of teammate 
Francesca Crannell, while the two mile turned 
into a sprint at the finish. Posting a time of 
12:57.0, Wismer beat her Robert Morris challenger by only .1 seconds.
While Crannell had to be happy with a se­
cond in the mile, the freshman star later show­
ed her true colors as she had a convincing win 
in the half mile race, stopping the clock at 
2:44.7.
Tartan Anne Harvey added some points to 
her squad’s cause as she took second place in 
the quarter, while Williams placed second in 
both the high and triple jumps.
Sprinter Mary Caperick put in a good show­
ing for the home crowd, as she took thirds in 
both the 110 and 400 meter hurdles. Liz 
Killmeyer, Wismer, Ralston, and Crannell also 
copped thirds in the 440, 880, 200, and two 
mile events, respectively.
In the field Nyzio notched a third place finish 
in the discus, while novice thrower Denise 
Visconti tossed the javelin 85 feet 11 inches to give her a yellow ribbon.
Finally, both the 440 and mile relay teams 
bested all challengers, with times of :57 and 
4:35.0, respectively.
The women will wrap up their 1986 campaign 
this weekend at the PAC Championships.Senior sprinter Maria Kozo hands off to Liz Killmeyer in the 4 x 100 relay. The tracksters 
won last Tuesday’s meet, tallying 114 points.
Baseball squad falls victimto St. Vincent’s, Beaver
cond off Tartan hurler Kevin Murtha. The Tar­
tans answered back in the third with a run, 
scored on a Mike Hensel single. The game 
stayed tied until the fifth, when with one out Tar­
tan second baseman Perry Pierce made an er­
ror which opened up the floodgates for four 
unearned runs. The Titans came back with four 
more in the fifth, which brought in Tartan 
reliever John Spanos.Pat Carey and Spanos were the only two Tar­
tans to get hits in the late innings, as the Titan pitchers tallied twelve strikeouts en route to vic­
tory. The Titans threatened to open up a big­
ger lead in the ninth, but a great running catch 
by Richard Bogdany quelled the Titan attack.
Mental misques were a big factor in the loss
to St. Vincent College, as all the runs scored 
against the Tartans were unearned. The 7-2 loss 
was especially bitter, because Tartan pitcher 
Mike Hensel pitched the Tartans best outing of 
the spring. The Tartans moved ahead quickly, 
manufacturing a run on three walks and a 
sacrifice fly by Rick Fetterman. St. Vincent 
answered back with three runs in their half
Carnegie Mellon came back with a run in the 
fourth on doubles by Dom Colangelo and Fet­terman.
After St. Vincent added three more runs, the 
Tartans tried to answer back, but were unable 
due to two infield outs. The Tartans loaded the 
bases abain the eighth, but two strikeouts took 
the Tartans out of the game.___________ _
Pilcher Kevin Murtha displays his sidearm form.photo by Jack I- Poller
iy PERRY PIERCE
nartan Staffwriter
The Baseball Tartans took two tough losses 
his week, dropping an 11-1 decision to Beaver 
>ee. and a 7-2 defeat
at the hands of St. Vincent’s College. The Tar­
tans now are 1-7 this spring, but have two weeks 
and six more games to even up their record.
The Titans of Beaver Community College started the scoring by posting a run in the se-
photo bv Jack L. Poller
Freshman Perry Pierce readies himself for the pitch. The baseball squad fell to Beaver 
County Community College last Thursday, 11-1.

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
Comics
Gallery
Classifieds
Events
By BRUCE KASREL
Tartan Entertainment Editor
The deafening roar from the jet engines of 
your F-14 Tomcat engulfs you as the plane 
takes off. The ground beneath rapidly grows 
# smaller and is soon replaced by the serene white 
of the clouds. You are a Navy pilot flying on 
a mission to intercept some enemy aircraft. The 
‘‘bogeys” appear on your radar and you 
prepare for a fight. They are quicker and more 
maneuverable than you are and they soon have 
you under their gunsights. Cutting across the 
i sky does nothing to shake them... you have on- 
8 ly a few more moments to live. Grasping the 
throttle for dear life you force the plane into a 
4G dive and popcorn spills all over your lap... 
WHAT??. Oddly enough this scenario will be a familiar 
one to thousands of movie goers this summer 
? as they “experience” Top Gim(Paramount). 
Although the subject matter behind the film, the 
rights of passage for a jet pilot, is not new to 
the screens - both An Officer and a Gentleman 
and The Right Stuff covered this topic brilliantly- 
the fact that the film is shot using actual F-14’s 
makes Top Gun the most incredible “roller­
coaster ride” of a movie ever.
Top Gun is the story of what it takes to the 
best of the best in the Navy’s F-14 squadrons. 
Back in the Vietnam War, the Navy became 
disturbed by the very poor kill ratio our pilots 
had, 3 to 1 (compared to 17 to 1 in Korea and 
15 to 1 in World War II). So the Pentagon 
established the Navy Fighter Weapons School 
at San Diego’s Mirmar Naval Air Station. It is 
here where the top pilots in each squadron learn 
how to improve their flying skill by taking on 
the enemy in simulated battle conditions. To­
day, pilots dream of getting the chance to showI
 what they’re made of, and if they’ve got what 
it takes, claim the rights to the title of “Best in
__the World.”
Pete “Maverick” Mitchell (Tom Cruise) is one 
of the lucky few who are allowed into the Top 
Gun program. A hot shot, cocky flyboy, Mit­
chell can outfly anybody in the skies. He has 
one problem, though, he does not fly by the 
rules and in Top Gun that can spell disaster.
He is constantly at odds with the instructors 
as he refuses to accept their rules. Cruise is 
perfect for the part. He looks and feels like a 
pilot (he did a tremendous amount of research 
for the part and even had a ride in the back 
seat of an F-14) and he conveys Maverick’s de­
fiance with authority. In Risky Business Cruise 
easily moved from overconfident to insecure 
with ease and credibility.In Top Gun he repeats 
this acting feat when his partner/Radio Intercept 
Officer(RIO) Lt. Nick “Goose” Bradshaw (An­
thony Edwards) dies in a crash. It is an amaz- 
lng and instantaneous transition yet Cruise plays 
both parts so naturally that you hardly notice.
Mitchell may love flying F-14’s, but in this 
movie his love interest is with astrophysiscist and 
^°P Gun instructor Charlotte “Charlie” 
(everyone has nicknames in this movie) 
Blackwood (Kelly McGillis). A tall blonde among 
°phisticated military machinery might seem a 
ted contrived, but her character was modeled 
after an actual Top Gun instructor who is a very 
^tractive 6’ tall blonde who is also a specialist 
ln Maritime Air Superiority.
Many may remember McGillis from her stun- 
nmg portrial of an Amish widow in Witness, but
notch thrills in Top Gun
few will recognize her. Under that conservative 
amish costume is a remarkably beautiful woman 
and in the film she has a perfect opportunity 
to show her person. She and Cruise are an ob­
vious and perfect couple. Director Tony Scott 
realized the potential fire between these two and 
magnified it with a sensationally filmed love 
scene done in silhouette. It has not been since 
Body Heat that a duo could look so sensuous 
on film.
Even though Cruise and McGillis are nearly 
perfect, they are up staged by the real star of 
the movie - the aerial sequences. Producers Don 
Simpson and Jerry Bruckheimer wisely chose 
to seek out the aid of the Navy and got full sup­
port. The planes are actual Navy issue, 
customized for visual appeal, and they also had 
two Top Gun advisors on location at Miramar. 
In order to capture the essence of flight, six 
cameras where mounted on the F-14’s and
just happens to fly-by-the-book. The conflict bet­
ween the two overly handsome and talented ac­
tors provides the movie with some tension on 
the ground. Anthony Edwards puts in a bright 
performance which includes a singing duet with 
Cruise and a solo number for himself. Tom 
Skerrit and Michael Ironsides are the Top Gun 
instructors who realize Maverick’s talent but 
disapprove of his methods.
Top Gun, despite a few minor holes in the
McGillis’ looks are so incredible that it almost 
distracts us from realizing what a fantastic ac­
tress she is. She also researched her role and 
portrays the romantic and serious side of Charlie 
convincingly. Both Cruise and McGillis ability 
to deftly play each side of their respective 
characters makes the two an extremely com- 
patable couple. Whenever the pair is together 
the screen dazzles with a passionate fire for fly­
ing and each other.
another was placed in a Lear Jet that followed 
all the action. The results are nothing short of 
spectacular. Every dog fight, there are many, 
is filmed with such realism that you can almost 
feel the G’s. If this movie does not take home 
and Oscar for Cinematography it will be the big­
gest mistake since Heraldo Rivera began 
reading about A1 Capone.
Rounding out the fine cast is Val Kilmer as 
Maverick’s rival Tom “Iceman” Kazansky who
story — there are a few moments that are a rip- 
off of An Officer and a Gentleman (Don Simp­
son produced both) — is one of the most 
thoroughly entertaining films in years. The spec­
tacular aerial scenes will have you glued to your 
seat and if you enjoy the sensation of flying like 
me, then you will never want this film to run 
out of fuel and have to finally touch down.
Tartan Movie Grade 3.90

---------------------------------------------------

• ••••••»••••• •••••••••• ••••o « ••• © ••••• •••*• •••••• •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• ••••• ••••••••••%•* ••••••••••«••••• • • »• • • • • m m m a m a• » • • • • • • * • • •••••••
¡¦XvXvX-:^^
;,0;tS£ÍxZD
NumubueububreBedford Springs Festival Fifth Season
PITTSBURGH-The Bedford Springs 
Festival for the Performing Arts will open its 
Fifth Anniversary Season on July 5. The six- 
week Festival presents symphony and chamber 
music featuring internationally-acclaimed guest 
soloists, chamber music, a juried art show, and 
lectures by artists, humanists, and noted pro­
fessionals. The fifth season also brings innova­
tion to the Festival line-up. Friday and Satur­
day performances will be moved to evenings in 
the Festival amphitheatre. Program offerings 
have expanded to include jazz and a sing-in.
Nestled in the hills of Pennsylvania, halfway 
between Pittsburgh and Washington, D.C., lies 
historic Bedford and the 175-year-old Bedford 
Springs Hotel. Many of the Festival’s concerts 
will be presented in a meadow near the Hotel 
in a thousand-seat, yellow-and-white tent. 
Festival-goers will enjoy the music of critically- 
acclaimed artists in the cool and intimate set­
ting of the local countryside.
Featured guest artists appear with the Bed­
ford Festival Orchestra, conducted by music 
director Jacques Brourman. The resident or­
chestra is comprised of 80 professional musi­
cians selected by audition from across the 
United States, Canada, Greece, and Hong 
Kong.
Maestro Brourman inaugurated the premiere 
season of the Bedford Springs Festival in 1982 
to the acclaim of critics and the public alike. 
Before coming to the Festival, he served as Ac­
ting Conductor of the New Orleans Philhar­
monic, sharing the podium with Dimitri 
Mitropoulos, Sir Thomas Beecham, and Pierre 
Monteux. Brourman also held the post of Music 
Director of the Charlotte Symphony for ten 
seasons. Prior to the opening of this Festival 
season, Maestro Brourman will tour Europe and 
lead orchestras in Rumania and Greece.
Each season the culture of a different coun­
try is highlighted. This season, the art of Austria 
will be honored, spotlighting the contributions 
of such great Austrians as Mozart, Haydn, 
Mahler, Schoenberg, and Johann Strauss. The 
Austrian flavor will carry over into chamber 
music, lectures, demonstrations, and social 
events.
The opening concert on July 5 features Greek 
pianist Janis Vakarelis in a performance of the 
Prokofieff Piano Concerto Mo. 3 in C. Vakarelis 
has won numerous competitions and has per­
formed throughout Europe, the United 
Kingdom, and the Far East. Vakarelis will per­
form in a chamber concert on Sunday, July 6,
with members of the Bedford Festival 
Orchestra.
Soprano Beverly Morgan appears in two per­
formances during the Festival’s second week. 
Ms. Morgan will perform in a solo recital on Fri­
day evening, July 12. On Saturday, July 13, 
Ms. Morgan will again be featured in “An Even­
ing in Vienna,” a selection of light Viennese 
works including the music of Johann Strauss. 
A versatile and impressive performer, Ms. 
Morgan has made her debut at La Scala, the 
San Francisco Opera, and the Opera Company 
of Boston. A Fine Arts and Gourmet Picnic are 
planned as part of Saturday’s pre-concert 
activities.
Violinist Jaime Laredo completes the second 
weekend with a performance of the Samuel 
Barber Violin Concerto. Since winning the 
coveted Queen Elizabeth of Belgium Competi­
tion, Laredo has appeared with such legendary 
conductors as Szell, Stokowski, Ormandy, and 
Mehta. Other works on the July 13 program in­
clude the Symphony No. 2 in C of Robert 
Schumann and the Fantasia on a Theme by 
Thomas Tallis of Ralph Vaughan Williams.
The Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre returns to Bed­
ford Springs for the fifth consecutive season with 
performances on Friday evening, July 18, and 
Sunday afternoon, July 20. Under the artistic 
direction of Patricia Wilde, the Pittsburgh Ballet 
Theatre has demonstrated a mature, energetic 
style in all aspects of dance, technically and ar­
tistically. Week Ill’s Saturday orchestra concert 
features pianist Richard Syracuse performing 
the Piano Concerto No. 4 in G of Beethoven. 
The program closes with the Symphony No. 9, 
“New World,” of Antonin Dvorak.
Jazz opens Week IV with Pittsburgh’s Joe 
Negri Quartet on Friday, July 25. Joe Negri is 
well-known not only as a jazz guitarist but also 
for his television appearances as Handyman 
Negri on “Mister Rogers’ Neighborhood.”
French horn virtuoso Barry Tuckwell joins the 
Bedford Festival Orchestra on Saturday, July 
26, to perform horn concertos by Michael 
Haydn and Richard Strauss. Tuckwell is the 
acknowledged master of the French horn and 
the only horn player to have established a career 
exclusively as a soloist. The Saturday program 
concludes with the Enigma Variations by Sir 
Edward Elgar.
A Family Concert featuring cellist Alex 
Veltman will be given the following day. 
Veltman has been a member of the Bedford 
Festival Orchestra since the premiere season in 
1982 and is currently completing a bachelor
of music degree at the Julliard School in New 
York. The Family Concert includes light classics 
and popular favorites interspersed with com­
ments by Maestro Brourman.
Pittsburgh’s own Walt Harper and All That 
Jazz will perform at the Festival amphitheatre 
on Friday, August 1. Harper’s is a highly ac­
claimed musical group in Pittsburgh and one 
of the country’s great jazz groups.
The following day, pianist Natasha Snitkov- 
sky appears in a performance of the Liszt Piano 
Concerto in A Major. Ms. Snitkovsky has per­
formed in the Pittsburgh area as well as in New 
York City’s Carnegie Hall. This will be her se­
cond performance in Bedford. Music of 
Mendelssohn, Schubert, Tchaikovsky, and 
Johann Strauss complete the Saturday evening 
program.
The fifth week closes on August 3 with 
“Amadeus II,” a sequel to last year’s most 
popular concert presenting music from the 
movie “Amadeus.” The Chautauqua Symphony 
Quartet will be featured in performance of the 
Sinfonia Concertante in E-flat for Oboe, Clarinet, 
Bassoon, and Horn, K. Anh. 9. Quartet 
members Jan Eberle, Roger Hiller, William 
Scribner, and Rebecca Root Davis are members 
of the orchestra in residence at the Chautau­
qua Institution in New York.
The 1986 Festival season concludes with a 
Choral Weekend. Max Peterson, conductor of 
the Bach Choir of Pittsburgh, will conduct a 
Messiah “Sing-in” on Friday evening, August
8. Audience members are encouraged to bring 
their own music and sing along with the Bed­
ford Festival Orchestra in this performance of 
Handel’s famous oratorio, Messiah.
Choral music continues on Saturday, August
9, with a performance by the Vocal Arts Ensem­
ble of Cincinnati, directed by Elmer Thomas. 
Sunday’s program includes the Schubert Mass 
in G, with Vocal Arts Ensemble, and the Sym­
phony No. 1 of Gustav Mahler. This is the 
Ensemble’s second season at the Bedford 
Springs Festival.
A chamber music workshop will be offered 
during the week of July 20. Highly popular in 
1985, this week-long workshop offers adult 
amateur musicians the opportunity to perform 
chamber music under the guidance of principal 
players of the Bedford Festival Orchestra. 
Facilities are provided for informal reading ses­
sions and rehearsals.
Selected guest artists and members of the Or­
chestra present chamber music concerts and 
master classes Wednesday through Sunday
evenings in the Bedford Springs Hotel. A new, 
addition to the chamber music schedule is 
Saturday “Midnight Chamber Music.”
The Festival of Music will again be open to 
music students of all levels. College credit is 
available through Frostburg State College for 
private instruction in piano and all orchestral 
instruments, conducting, and independent 
research in music.
The lecture and panel discussion series will 
be presented throughout the summer. Includ­
ed are poetry readings and discussion topics 
such as medicine, the media, politics, and the 
arts.
Bedford is convenient to the Pennsylvania 
Turnpike and is just a short drive from Pitt­
sburgh, Baltimore, and Washington, D.C. It is 
also easily accessible to Philadelphia and New 
York concert-goers.
Interviews with artists and review tickets can 
be arranged by calling Pamela Gray or Lee Mat- 
chett at the Festival Office.
The Bedford Springs Festivid for the Perfor­
ming Arts is a non-profit corporation funded, 
in part, by a grant from the Pennsylvania Coun^; 
cil on the Arts.
Ticket information is available by contacting 
the Bedford Springs Festival Office, 901 Park 
Building, Pittsburgh, PA, 15222 or by calling] 
(412) 391-5460.Dinner Theatre
PITTSBURGH: Dinner theatre is alive and 
well at the Tonidale. Having just completed a I 
successful engagment of Willy Russel* 
Educating Rita, the Tonidale and Patina Pr°‘ 
ductions are wasting no time in presenting 
another professional stage adaptation. Ever) 
Wednesday and Thursday evening from Ap^ 
30 through June 5, Bernard Slade’s Same TiM j 
Next Year will be performed. Following the p^’ 
patrons will be treated to the musical revue, j 
“. . .And They Can Tap Dance, Too.’
The package price of $20 per person also w I 
eludes the choice of one of the following 
ner entrees: Broiled Lemon Sole stuffed ^ 
Crabmeat, New York Strip Steak, Seafood ^1 
quille, Chicken Cordon Bleu, Veal Partn^311! 
or Shrimp and Broccoli over Linguini.
The Tonidale is located on Routes 22 & • 
in Oakdale, just off the Parkway West. F0l| 
reservations or more information call * | 
Tonidale at 787-8160.

---------------------------------------------------

April 29, 1986—The Tartan—Page D3
Nureyev and Baryshnikov to dance in gala
¡NEW YORK, NY: Rudolf Nureyev, Director 
of Dance of the Paris Opera Ballet and Mikhail 
Baryshnikov, Artistic Director of the American 
Ballet Theatre will both dance at a special Gala 
Performance Tuesday, July 8, 1986 at the 
Metropolitan Opera House in New York. The 
Gala will benefit the Paris Opera Ballet, 
\merican Ballet Theatre and the Metropolitan 
Opera Association. Appearing with Mr. Nureyev 
and Mr. Baryshnikov will be members of each 
of their companies, as well as additional inter­
national stars. Following the July 8 perfor­
mance, which closes the ABT Metropolitan 
Opera season (May 5—July 5), Rudolf Nureyev 
and the Paris Opera Ballet will appear for two 
weeks at the Metropolitan Opera (July 9—19) 
and one week at the Kennedy Center in 
Washington D.C. (July 22—27).
Speaking at a press conference to announce 
the Gala on the Grand Tier of the Metropolitan 
Opera House, Mr. Baryshnikov said that 
although dtemplete details had not yet been 
finalized, part of the programming will include 
members of ABT in a special verion of 
American choreographer Twyla Tharp’s “Push 
Comes to Shove ”, which will be interpolated by 
Miss Sharp specifically for the Gala. Mr. 
Baryshnikov also announced that the acclaim­
ed French chanteuse “Barbara” will make her 
American debut at the Metropolitan Opera on 
the evening of the Gala, accompanying 
members of ABT in a World Premiere staged 
by Mr. Baryshnikov for the occasion.
Standing alongside Mr. Baryshnikov, Mr. 
Nureyev announced that another highlight of the
Black Flag: A Big Cult Band
By ALBRECHT T. POWELL
Tartan Production Manager
“Metal message music” has invaded the 
United States through SST Records, the world’s 
largest underground record label. Their greatest 
hit group, Black Flag, has emerged as one of 
America’s biggest “Cult” bands. Their type of 
music “is indescribable, except as just Black
To some, Black Flag is just noise to suffer 
through, however, according to Ginn, “..in the 
real sense of world politics, Black Flag makes 
a lot of political statements. I like the sentiments 
of helping people and doing something” Their 
music is definitely radical, with anger and ex­
plosive emotion and songs that often concern 
dark themes such as depression, alienation, in- Flag” says Black Flag lead guitarist Greg Ginn, sanity, hatred, and paranoia.
Ginn is the sole surviving original member of Ginn wants Black Flag to stand for nothing 
the group, which, as he puts it, i9 constantly except the true expression of the band. Its songs
undergoing change, but is always still Black 
Flag. The group offers little rewards, except that 
of the music they play. Ginn believes that the 
only way to be a part of the group is to be “...so 
intensely into the music that it’s all one really 
needs.”
The group put on an invigorating performance 
at City Limits last Saturday night. Attracting a 
much smaller crowd than expected, those in at­
tendance seemed to be exceptionally “in to” 
the music. This was extremely evident by the 
way they crammed the stage (from under which 
I barely escaped with my life) and were “claw­
ing” their way up to lead singer Henry Rollins 
who I might add is tattooed all over his body.
reflect the personal lives of its members. “We 
force the audiences to accept or not accept our 
musical movement,” emphatically stated Ginn.
According to the group, America is falling too 
greatly into what Ginn calls “formulas,” such 
as the Springsteen type of music that he con­
tests is “helping to destroy the world with isola­
tionism” Ginn is also involved heavily in the 
group Gone, another metal message SST label. 
His basic ideology on life, and the world, is to 
“Turn off the TV, and get real real real GONE!”
Black Flag is certainly a group that, even with 
their intended one year absence after this tour, 
will live on and continue strong delivering its 
political messages to the world.
New voice element from Glass
By DAN WEIR
Tartan Record Reviewer 
At first, I was somewhat apprehensive about 
reviewing the new Philip Glass album Songs 
From Liquid Days, as I’m not terribly familiar 
with his music. Later, I realized this particular 
album is not typical Glass. It is decidedly a pop 
record, in comparison to past Glass work. The 
big twist in the new Glass is the use of voice. 
He has recruited some of the music industry’s 
finest lyricists and vocalists in what is apparendy 
an attempt to reach a broader audience. The 
result has thus far been both shock and delight 
m the ranks of Glass loyalists and if nothing else 
is to be said for the effort, it is at the very least, 
well conceited. In the liner notes, Glass re­
counts the conception of the album. He insists 
the lyrics are the foremost element in the cycle 
of six songs whose common thread entwines 
about common experience. The subject matter 
(in lyrics by David Byrne, Suzanne Vega, Paul 
Simon and Laurie Anderson) range from sim­
ple sensory observations to a more self-effacing
bout with insomnia; sometimes working, 
sometimes not. The Glass/Simon collaboration 
Changing Opinion for instance^ never quite gets 
off the ground.
Generally speaking, however, the marriage is 
a success. Lyrics (by Byrne) such as I offer Love 
a beer though outwardly simple-minded, 
become more elusive after a few passes. Thé 
vocal interpretations, particularly those by Linda 
Ronstadt and The Roches, are perfect com­
pliments to Glass’ hypnotic orchestrations.
The music itself is sparse, as classical (or 
“sort-of-classical”) music goes - par for the 
Glass course. Perhaps the best thing anyone can 
report about the music is that it hovers 
dangerously close at times to overpowering the 
lyric, and in an oft-missed sense of discipline, 
backs off at that crucial moment when the song 
verges on monotony and predictability. The bit­
tersweet truth about Philip Glass is that it will 
probably be years before the music world cat­
ches on to one of its greatest modern treasures. 
Let’s hope he Hves to see the day.
DEBRA ABELL 7 pmdermatologist
• easily accessible by bus from CMU
3500 Fifth Ave, Suite 102, Oakland 
682-5050
MasterCard. Visa accepted 
Call appointment
Gala would be Act III of the ballet “Raymon- 
da”, which he and Mr. Baryshnikov will 
choreograph together. Incorporating elements 
from Mr. Nureyev’s full-length “Raymonda” 
and Mr. Baiyshnikov’s own Act III, the new ver­
sion will be performed by the Paris Opera 
Ballet, which wil be joined by members of 
American Ballet Theatre. A separate work 
featuring many of the new generation of Paris 
Opera Ballet “etoiles” will also be seen during 
the Gala.
Jane Hermann, Presentations Director of the 
Metropolitan Opera, announced that in the spirit 
of continued cultural cooperation between 
France and America epitomized by the Gala, 
film star Gene Kelly has given the MET his 
choreography for one of the most famous ballet
sequences in film, orginally seen in the 1951 
classic, “An American in Paris”. Transposed 
to the stage by Mr. Kelly’s friend and colleague, 
Michael Smuin, the sequence will be danced 
by members of the Paris Opera Ballet and 
American Ballet Theatre. Mr. Kelly and his co- 
star in the MGM film, Leslie Caron, have been 
asked to introduce this portion of the Gala.
Chairmen for the Gala will be Countess 
Marina de Brantes of the Paris Opera Ballet, 
Mrs. Nan Kempner from American Ballet 
Theatre and Mrs. Cecile Zilkha of the 
Metropolitan of the Metropolitan Opera Associa­
tion. Tickets will range from $35 to $250, with 
a special $1,000 ticket which includes a Gala 
dinner following the performance. For tickets 
and information, call Metropolitan Opera box 
office (212)362-6000.
Folk Music Festival
PITTSBURGH: On May 30 to June 1 the 
10th Annual Smokey City Folk Festival will take 
place in Oakland. On May 30th, there will be a 
square dance in the Skibo Ballroom from 8-12. 
The dance will feature callers Marlin Whitaker, 
Dolores Heagy, and Larry Edelman as well as 
the music of High Society, Stewed Mulligan, and 
The Percolators. The following day there will be 
folk instrument workshops from 10 a.m. to 4:30 
p.m. at Canegie Institute. That night there will 
be a concert in the lecture hall. On Saturday, an 
all day free concert on Flagstaff Hill featuring 
Dave Kristy, Dwayne Thorpe, and Mike & Janet 
Reing. Call 322-6359.
Jazz in Philly...
PHILADELPHIA: If you like jazz and are go­
ing to be in Philly over the summer why not 
check out the Upstairs Jazz Club in Center Ci­
ty. Located on Locust St across from the Her- 
shey Hotel, Upstairs offers top class jazz in a 
relaxed setting. Coming on May 2 Alex Evans 
with Wallace Rooney will appear. And on Satur­
day, the jazz legend Hank Mobley will do two 
shows. On the 9th and 10th the fusion sounds 
of 52nd Street can be heard in the Upstairs. 
The 16th and 17th features Freeport and Nor 
man Connors respectively. Bobby Zankel and 
Anchient Family will play on the 23rd. For 
more info call i(215) 546-1555 .
Precision Haircuts custom designed 
for the look you want
Designer 
Permonly
$25.00comp*«t»wflh 
guarantee I
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED 
Great Styles Start at
Precision
Haircut
onlv*13.00
Compte*« with shampoo 
* blow style ¡
Just-A-Cut
only
*8.00
Precision hatrcut only
No Appointments
¦¦ CP Ohi'H Peop coupon ¦¦ IB ¦¦
save *2.00 I 
on the Precision Haircut 9Complet® wHh shampoo A styling g
I 
I 
I 
II Offer Expires:
I April 30, 1986
I
_J®W!CKfCCTftTMnS <
PPOtNTMENT
NECESSARY VWdl I
cHPCcnmtns
PRECISION HAWCUT TERS
237 Atwood Street Across the street from Oakland Post Office
687-3500
NOTICE!
l,1 9i8e6nc oudA34 ,NdtCASft— mB'H
This standby fare provides a berth in a room for four (we'll 
find traveling companions for 
you). Or, for $749 sail in a minimum-grade room for two. This limited offer is subject to withdrawal without prior 
notice and may not be com-. bined with any other offer. 
Rate does not include taxes or
QE2 registered in Great Britain.
airfare. Confirmation will be 
given three weeks prior to sail­
ing; a $100 deposit is required 
with your request. For details, 
see your travel agent or write: 
Cunard, Box 2935, Grand Central Station, New York,
NY 10163.
Queen Elizabeth 2 
Last of the Great Superliners.
© CUNARD 1986
CUNARD20PPC 1pNrIoPAT s alIgenEi M VNcAIgenEi m t0CIEi tn0CAPcc M t0CIEi DENClPcc

---------------------------------------------------

Page D4—The Tartan—April 29, 1986
TORONTO: National Ballet School Artistic 
Director, Betty Oliphant has announced plans 
for a course in Dance Accompaniment for 
Pianists which will run for 14 weeks from 
September 8 through to December 12, 1986.
This specialized programme for qualified 
musicians will ballet repertoire, arrangement 
and playing for National, Character and Spanish 
dance classes as well as ballet, pas de deux and 
variations. The course will culminate with each 
student actually accompanying NBS classes.
The course will be taught by Margaret Gibbs 
and Nina Pinzarrone. Ms. Gibbs is a member 
of York University's Music Faculty and NBS in­
structor in Music Related to Dance and is cur­
rently writing a book on Music for Dancers. Ms.
Pinzarrone, an NBS accompanist for ten years 
has conducted seminars for pianists throughout 
the country and is also presently engaged in 
researching and writing a book on Ballet 
Accompaniment.mu
Admission to the new programme is by audi­
tion. Interested candidates are asked to contact 
the Registrar, The National Ballet School, 105 
Maitland Street, Toronto, Ontario M4Y 1E4 
(416-964-3780) for information.
How about summer classes?
Richard Pryor stars as a performer on the rise in Jo Jo Dancer
Ally Sheedy and Steve Guttenberg help out a “living” robot in Short Circuit
LAKESIDE, CT—The National Guitar Sum­
mer Workshop is proud to announce that a 
number of the finest guitarists in America will 
be presenting Master Workshops during our up­
coming summer season. Such celebrated recor­
ding and performing artists as: Larry Coryell, 
Michael Hedges, Sharon Isbin, John Abercrom­
bie, Arlen Roth, Benjamin Verdery, Jerry Jem- 
mott, Guy Van Duser, Roger Powell, Scott 
Anderson, Emily Remler, Dennis Koster, Dave 
Becker, Diane Ponzio, Mark Altekruse, and 
Julian Gray/Ronald Pearl, will conduct classes 
this year.
The NGSW offers students an opportunity to 
spend one or more weeks in a community that 
shares their love for music and the guitar. We
offer intermediate and advanced courses in: 
Rock, Classical, Jazz, Bass, Fingerstyle, 
Bluegrass, Voice, Banjo, Songwriting, and Syn­
thesizer. Students may also choose to join our 
special workshops in: Guitar Building, Guitar 
Repair, Guitar Synthesizer, Midi and Computer 
Music or Special Jazz Seminar.
Located at the South Kent School, in South 
Kent, Ct., the NGSW accepts high school, col­
lege and adult students. The first session will 
begin on July 12th and subsequent one, two 
and three-week long courses continue through 
Aug. 24. A limited number of scholarships are 
made available to deserving applicants.
The National Guitar Summer Workshop will 
be assisted by many of the leaders in the music 
industry. This summer: Bose, Cherry Lane 
Technologies, D’Addario, Dauphin, Gibson 
Guitars, Guitar Salon, Ibanez, Martin, Ovation, 
Peavey, Roland, Yamaha and Yamaha Inter­
national, have all lent their support.
For more information, please contact: Mr. 
David Smolover, Dir. NGSW, Dept. PR, Box 
222, Lakeside, CT 06758 or (203) 567-8529.
would like to thank the entire | 
Carnegie Mellon community 
for making our first full 1 
semester a success.

---------------------------------------------------

April 29, 1986—The Tartan—Page D5
The Outfield ‘Waste No Time’ in 
Captivating and Enthusing Crowd
bv ALBRECHT T. POWELL
Tartan Production Manager
“It was raining today, but the sun shines here 
tonight” were the words of The Outfield’s lead 
vocalist and bassist Tony Lewis during their 
Tuesday evening show at Graffiti. Enthralling 
their audience from their hearty Pittsburgh 
welcome to their final number, The Outfield 
captivated everyone with a rarely equaled en­
thusiasm and vitality.
The cheering began when blind keyboardist 
Rege Webb was escorted on stage; their reac­
tion did not stop there. The audience, which 
virtually packed the night club, was there for 
only one reason, to hear The Outfield.
Opening with “Mystery Man,” followed by 
“61 Seconds,” they grabbed the audience and 
kept them in tune with the music through sheer 
spring-coiled energy. The music from these East 
Londoners are nothing short of explosive. It can 
be seen from their debut album, Play Deep, that 
there is excessive enthusiasm and enjoyment in 
their playing. On stage, however, it is blatantly 
obvious that these men have a deep love for just 
playing music. The energy they radiate on stage 
is definitely portrayed in their music.
The Outfield’s music is hard to classify. It has 
its own sound and is clearly not stereotyped 
after anyone. It is imaginatively new, vivacious, 
and exciting. The feature hooklines of the songs 
“Say it Isn’t So”, “All the Love”, “I Don’t Need 
Her”, and “Mystery Man” destine this group 
to great success. John Spinks, songwriter and 
guitarist, sums up their music as “ ...a weird 
mixture of all our favorite bands...the Cars, the 
Police, and the Beatles.” After listening to their 
music, however, one cannot place them with any 
other type of music except The Outfield. They 
are truly in a class by themselves.
Although most songs contain an ex- 
hueberance of energy, some are quite deep and 
melancholy. They sincerely capture the hearts 
of everyone who has listened to them. They 
relate a myriad of real life experiences, one of 
which is bound to touch even the hardest soul 
of any listener. They let you be mellow, if you 
want, but refuse to let you stay there. On their 
album, Play Deep, a tear-jerking song such as 
“Everytime You Cry”is immediately followed 
by the power-packed song, “61 Seconds.”
All of their songs are not destined for 
greatness; they are playing to make music, not 
just money. Much of their music, however, is 
becoming more popular in the states and once 
their uniqueness catches on, there is no telling 
where they may go.
In concert, one can truly experience their love 
for music. They look like they thoroughly en­
joy what they are doing, and want the audience 
to love it just as much. Their smiles and con­
tinual comments toward the crowd and Pitt­
sburgh made everyone feel well at home. They 
strived to make the whole audience a part of 
the music, and succeeded greatly. People went 
wild when “Your Love” came on, one of their 
up-beat energetic love songs. The group had the 
audience broken up in three sections and pit­
ted each one in singing ability and loudness 
against each other. Everyone there could not 
only feel the intensity of the music, but was part 
of it.
To quote their song, “Mystery Man”, “In the 
middle of it all, he can waste no time.” Well, 
The Outfield, with it’s uniqueness, diversity, 
openness, and of course power-packed energy 
is wasting no time in making a name for 
themselves in America and will continually be 
rising on the charts.
Phi Sigma Kappa, America's 
12th largest fraternity, is in­
terested in re-establishing our 
Carnegie Mellon chapter.
If you are interested in helping 
us build a new fraternity here at 
CMU, we want to hear from you.
Call Terry Boots, National 
Representative, at 521-6162.
Founded in 1873 for the promotion of 
Brotherhood, the stimulation of scholar­
ship, and the development of character.
Original Hot Dog Shop
3901 Forbes Avenue 
9 a.m.-4:30 a.m. Sun.-Thurs. 
9 a.m.-6 p.m. Fri.-Sat.
Largest Selection of Imports 
in the City
Try our new V2 pound 
freshly ground hamburger 
32 varieties
-large selection of imports available 
for consumption on premises 
-table service
For your entertainment, 
The Top of the O, above the O, 
features entertainment Friday and Saturday
open
11 a.m.-2 a.m. 
daily
Women's Health Servicesoc
Gyne Care that is 
Woman-Centered
• Professional & Convenient
• Female & Male Practitioners
• Complete Check-ups
• Contraceptive Services
During your check-up, ask for your free 
copy of Our Bodies, Ourselves.
Appointments & Information 562-1900
107 Sixth Street Downtown Pittsburgh
John Spinks and Tony Lewis of The Outfield excite crowds with their power-packed 
jconcerrt at Graffiti.
photo by Albrecht I. Powell
Henry Rollins and Greg Ginn of Black Flag mobed with fans at City Limits.
________________________________(see related story, page D3) |

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
Zurk
IvgsY3E,L, (dA& flfTY THoOSANP 
Tfc/\MSVe^TlT£S TRXlNG TO 6eT [N,
UEcf^e c£ yIR ybuR NCc0pANSY 
isiiue cAEduh wwvA
t^e^COO CO\^&1bTfc>79
by Nabil Liumang
ÄND 5o ZU RK, 
)vtefMfy. 3FMB 
DbM2BkM5& cif 
Tjo^o-m/ MAKES 
Ml5 es-Cfcpg: 
ERotA OAU...
}-
. - ¦•; ¦
Of Tt> HIS OWN VYoKuD. A 
WoRLD of SlZARRE THN« 
ANP BALING SIGHTS.
Nollem Eigenrac
(JELL, SCHOX's OueR, AND TV* Off 0*4 
A MICF COW6, uflCRnou TO SKMUV SoutherncACiFoiCwin. so, wAvBe x'u. see you TraNEXT VE4R___ ^
5c*T. I ^ij*
Vtxi,.
\
.
Abramsby Bob Jenkins
'¿-tiiS <^0(rcJ-'OiA IS o*/'» 
^OfL'C*I dev** VO ¦£ 'v/E’S .
We jc*sir
ylleet-xé»* I
)7ó*cLe»z {Uc fio^t-bo iest
Over
"Tp'Ci* do
S^6*cie^s have ~
I I c*t«{ ¿mì«/£v <qc^<jb»f?y
\jcwie o hz<k
Power of Ignorance Comix by Islak Cokland
Inkspots by Kurt Shaw
4‘Mom, you wouldn’t believe what happens when you put 
a fork in the microwave!”
BLOOM COUNTY
itoiNn&WMOP'(\ MP,VUY, STINKY 
IMWAWIM'T 
MUCH CARt FOR rr '
\ ry-
aI *
by Berke Breathed
IV UKi TO MLOOIZi FOR W 
B6MWUR YE5T6RMY. I W6
T fouL-mmep heeTNh mSHOULD Be PVT/FULLY KEEL' HftVUPFORir.
V V.
N—¦—
mNwYork mpeum.MTTO IT/ CH6ÌR m UP!
ff/Offr m// cneeR iw up 
or, so nap*% rame 
\ , m mwm? f ^ esmm!
BIG
MOUTH.
<Z>
) ^ Vi 1
3r%.
50 MAT'S Apf\«\? Send mv&iH6OOP FRieNPS ?
^_V
Comics in the News
v.irh.
What saa

---------------------------------------------------

BLOOM COUNTYStudent Dormitory Council
by Mike McHugh
The Digressional 
Choiceby Seth Eliot 
and Mike McHugh
HOOeif.THF TOASTfKiS
ßROKftf A&m, AOD 
THF V^CjAT KÆFD5 
A NBO PAtlOT T05
AfwO woîœv Dew-?, i'n
3l>*ST ADD TT OK) TO Ti/ff7 
TUlT/o-K.... WMfVM,
ficpoble iwPKouewans”
‘At Home With Di6k And Jane” 
(or “Keeping Up With The Cyerts”)
by Nabil Liumang
Iuld there oe?”
r
<e
tornRYROOM -
Nv
2Si
w*~~
IS
MR.0ALLA5
AWARET*
you Tartn TSfw
IN. PR. LE6RUNT 
IS PEBRIEFING
niw eanWwrnÊ
by Berke Breathed
ITT
HELP'MJMt'
M.mUA5Momrnxp ornwrM 
rv//
you am mot/ rim hours
AM/OF VACUOUS ENTERTAIN- 
mtr CAN BE FATAL IF 
YOU HAVEN'T TRAtNEP
sBN rr/ eli di ccV
WAKè UP/me Tar
I
SLAV,
I QUICK/HESHfim ItL
A 'BRAPV BUNCH"TJRN ON
REACTION..."WALLSTREET
AN ANT1P0T&/...tnnSr
Mfmme//
fwfp-\ Æ
—SIS
^ L.J
.21 : : n
a mce' vouHAveAffWce?'WHY HOT JUST PRINT, *1 Mfö
dv mmex's mice* 
onym/mmp?
CHFZALLY,
y
BAP/.. PO yOU REMEMBER. 
WHEN 1ÔAIP I’P LOVE 
you MO MATTER YEAH. 
WHAT ? I
m
PO you REMEMBER THAT 
15AIPIV LOVE yOU 
EVEN IF YOU BECAME 
A BALP,
uoeomnzep,
QUAPRUFLE
POYOU UNPERSTANP NO. THAT 
WHY I'M BKINMd THiNO 16 
THIS UP? TOTALLY 
/ ¡/AjSROSS.
MM'ivesr 
ANJTCH WP&W MKE/ÇUKt/COme- mm/
m\M/rr 
mm/,w- nod
NEVEtmV- irS GONNA60NEN0W BE a urn
SUMMER.
Æm.

---------------------------------------------------

ATTENTION: 1986 DEGREE 
CANDIDATES!!
Commencement information packets in­
cluding 5 announcements will be available 
in your department offices beginning this 
week.
Additional announcements are available for 
sale in the bookstore for $2.50 for a package 
of 5.
ALSO - Tickets for the Saturday, May 10th 
Buffet Dinner for graduating seniors and 
their parents are available in Skibo Grey Mat­
ter beginning this week. Each graduate is 
entitled to 3 complimentary tickets. Addi­
tional tickets may be purchased for $8.00 
at the Skibo Information Desk. Each 
graduate must present student ID cards.

---------------------------------------------------

Illustration by Dave Biber
Gallftrv
Illustration by Jennifer Keadle
Illustration by Karen Kmetz
^ \T Men are torn ti er« V
^ Whe" rr’ e™4' fr
Illustration by Bruce Stewart
=V
Illustration by Paibon Panuwattanawang

---------------------------------------------------

Page DIO—The Tartan—Aprii 29, 1986Sankai Juku promises a powerful show
PITTSBURGH: For the closing of its spring 
series at Heinz Hall, the Pittsburgh Dance 
Council presents the Japanese dance theatre 
company, Sankai Juku, on Tuesday, May 13 
at 8 p.m.
With their heads shaved and bodies covered 
with white powder, this five-man troupe is one 
of the most original and startling experimental 
dance companies ever seen in the United States.
The name means “school of the mountains 
and sea,M reflecting its beginnings in a series 
of demanding mental and physical experiments 
begun in a Tokyo studio in 1975. The foun­
ding members were Ushio Amagatsu, Yoshiyuki 
Takada, Keiji Moria, Goro Namerikawa, and At- 
sushi Ogata.
The original stimulus came from the post-war 
Japanese dance form known as buioh. Created 
out of dissatisfaction with traditional Western 
and Japanese forms, butoh is a powerful avant- 
garde dance style known for its extraordinary 
physical control and concentration. Mr. Amagat­
su, the artistic director and choreographer of 
Sankai Juku, was originally trained as a butoh 
performer.
In 1973, when Sankai Juku performed its first 
full-length production, “Kinkan Shonen,” it
replaced butoh's violent and sensational style 
with new dimensions of delicacy and grace. 
Amagatsu invented a unique choreographic vi­
sion which retains the original power of butoh, 
but reaches a universal audience with its sim­
ple, yet hauntingly beautiful images.
Sankai Juku aims at an audience’s emotions, 
not its thoughts. Each performance is infused 
with spectacular moments of meticulous 
choreography, enormous emotional concentra­
tion, and mischievous humor.
The result is something totally unlike Western 
dance forms. Whereas Western modern dance 
conventially begins with music, the work of 
Sankai Juki places choreography and image 
first. Music is added last. Each gesture has a 
heightened significance. The sense of movement 
is continuous. Each scene evolves slowly. “My 
choreography is a flow of consciousness,” 
Amagatsu explains, “and if I honestly follow it, 
some movement comes out of me. ”
Sankai Juku’s aim is to present the human 
body in a primitive form. Creation and evolu­
tion are its themes. When Amagatsu enters with 
a live peacock that will remain onstage for the
rest of the evening, he confirms his statement 
that “projecting unerasable impressions is our 
business.”
Their ability to create unforgettable images 
has won the troupe an enthusiastic following in 
Europe, particularly in Paris, where Sankai Juku 
is now based. Billing their tours as an “eternal 
voyage,” they were a hit on their first American 
visit in 1985, which included performances at
Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre:
By IJSA MCANANY
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
“Anything Goes” is a good way to describe 
the closing performance of the Pittsburgh Ballet 
Theatre’s season. It is also the title of Cole 
Porter’s best-known song. Cole, a short ballet 
featuring the music of the 1930’s American 
composer, was just one of the the ballets per­
formed, as PBT blended three unlikely elements 
into one sparkling event.
Cole provided the most upbeat moments of 
the evening. The art deco back-drop and
the Olympic Arts Festival in Los Angeles.
Tickets for the Sankai Juku program are 
available now through the Heinz Hall Box Of­
fice (Monday through Friday, 10 a.m.—6 p.m., 
Saturday 12 noon-6 p.m.), by calling the Ticket- 
Charge at 392-4900 or the PDC office at 
355-0330 (8 a.m.—6 p.m. weekdays), as well 
as Kaufmann’s, Gimbels, TIX and Le Ticket at 
PPG Court.
1930’s costumes set the stage for the Fred 
Astaire and Ginger Rogers-style ballroom dan­
cing. Elegant and energetic» the ballet featured 
male and female corps, a fan dance and a sul- 
ty, sensuous pair dancing to Porter’s ballads.
This highly-stylized ballet was choreograph­
ed by Wayne Soulant to a special medley of 
Cole Porter songs, ranging from hits like “So 
in Love,” “Night and Day,” and “Anything 
Goes” to the lesser known “Come On In” and 
“Begin the Beguine.” The piece opened and 
closed with a tape of Porter himself singing his 
song “Picture Me Without You.” What the 
ballet lacked in length and solo material, was 
made up for by energy and the easy, enjoyable 
nature of the ballet. Cole offered a refreshing 
change from the usual, albeit artistic, classical 
and neo-classical works perfomred by PBT.
The evening’s performance opened with The 
Four Temperaments, a Balanchine work, 
choreographed to Paul Hindemith’s music. The 
music, entitled “Theme with Four Variations,” 
was commissioned by George Balanchine for 
this ballet. The work is divided into five sec­
tions; the first, and opening theme features three 
pas de deux dancing to difference statements 
of the basic musical themes. The following four 
sections each feature and expand upon one of 
these basic themes. The themes come from an 
ancient belief that there are four temperaments 
which make up human nature: melancholic, ^ 
sanguinic, phlegmatic and choleric.
The PBT dancers adapted well to Balan­
chine’s distinctive neo-classical style. Balan­
chine ballets are firmly rooted in classical ballet, 
yet the movements take on an extra twist or 
bend wliich make them unqiue. The Four 
' Temperaments proved to be no exception from 
Balanchine’s rule. The ballet gained much of 
its expressiveness through the unconventional, 
unexpected nature of the steps. Balanchine 
depicted the isolation and discomfort of the in­
dividual using awkward poses and unnatural 
movements. The choreographer acheives har­
mony among the dancers using more fluid 
movements and theintricate tying and untying 
of human knots.
Wisely, PBT maintained simplicity in every 
aspect of the ballet. The costumes were basic 
black and white, against a simple blue 
backdrop.
Konigsmarh, a classical work set in the late 
17th century, rounded out the evening’s per­
formance. The ballet featured the music of 
Tchaikovsky and the choreography of Andre w 
Prokovsky. Excellent performances were given 
by Ernest Tolentino as Count Konigsmark, 
Maria Teresa del Real as his evil mistress, and 
Tamar Rachelle as Sopie, the woman with whom 
Konigsmark falls in love. Del Real’s solos were 
fiery and energetic, and Tolentino and RacheUe 
danced beautifully together in the romantic in­
terludes. The sets and costumes were lavish 
without detracting from the dance.
The Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre will begin its 
1986-87 season next autumn with a mixed* 
repertoire performance October 23-28. The 
company will perform Mercuric Tidings, Allegro 
Brilante, and Rodeo.
What is another word for 
thesaraus?
FINDING AN APARTMENT 
H MANHATTAN TAKES 
THE RIGHT EDUCATIONGet a free copy of “Manhattan Moves”— the insider’s guide to finding an affordable apartment in Manhattan.
To welcome potential new 
residents to the city, and dispel 
some myths about housing in 
New York, we have published a 
book called “Manhattan Moves”.
It’s the ultimate insider’s guide to apartment hunting in the Big Apple.
“Manhattan Moves” helps you set your sights on the right 
type of apartment and location. takes you on a tour of the city’s- 
neighborhoods, introduces you to the available housing, gives you 
vital facts about transportation, housing laws, renting, sharing, and much more.
The book gives you inside advice on actually finding the 
apartment you’ve targeted. It helps 
you find the hottest listings, tells you how to canvas, and how to select a broker.
Send for a free copy of 
“Manhattan Moves” today. It won’t guarantee you a Manhattan apart­
ment, but it will definitely get you “moving” in the right direction.
TO: MANHATTAN MOVES MILFORD MANAGEMENT,
1271 AVENUE OF THE AMERICAS, NEW YORK, N.Y. 10020
Send me a copy of “Manhattan Moves”, The Insider’s Guide to finding an 
Apartment in Manhattan—free without cost or obligation.
Ytyur Name 
School
Address 
City —State.Zip.
Home Address
City____
Phone No
. StateZip.
Or Call Toll Free 1 (800) 247-4041
A perfect blend of three forms

---------------------------------------------------

Events
Classifieds
84 Honda CRX 1.5 Blue/White Racing stripe, 
\lpine Cassette, Alarm, Rusty Jones. Fast, Reliable, 
Good in Snow $6,200 (682-1659).
Resort Hotels, Cruise Lines & Amusement Parks
are now accepting applications for employment! To 
recieve an application and information, write: 
Tourism Information Services. P.O. Box 7881 Hilton 
Head Island, SC 29938.
partime student to assist a Mechanical Contrac­
ting firm who can estimate and understand 
mechanical drawings, on the job training will be pro­
vided. Opportunity for continued employment after 
graduation, Immediate 521-0166.
2BR APT, close to campus on Wilkins Ave. 
Large, Bright Modern Unit with WAV.,Laundry. 
Available 6/1-optional Lease $505. Also 2-3 BR 
Units Avail for Sept. 363-3559
1 Bedroom W/W, security system newly-
redecoratored 621-2873.
DJ— AVAILABLE FOR GREEK & DORM-
functions, Parties, Weddings, Etc. Reasonable Rates, 
Reserve Now. Pat, 776-4745.
Apartment for Rent SQ Hill Graduate student. 
5701 Forbes Ave. 2BR Apt, 2 rooms down, 2 up. 
All utilities included $370.00 per month 261-1505 
and 421-9208. Available May 1.
PART-TIME SALESPERSON to sell roses in Pgh. 
area. Excellent money. Transportaion required. Call 
Sandy 761-9725.
Help.
Our Cities.
Our Oceans.
Our Trees.
Our Towns.
Our Forests.
Our Rivers.
Our Air.0
Our Mountains.
Our Plants.
Our Fishes.
Our Streams.
Our Deserts.
Our Lakes.
Our Tomorrows.
PREGNANT?
And you didn't mean to be? 
For a Iree pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call 
Birthright at 741-3491.
WEBSTER HALL
Webster Hall Apartments 
Finest High Rise In 
Oakland’s Cultural Center 
EFF. 1-2 BR
Your suite includes: -Heat, A/C, fully 
equipped kitchens,w/w caipeting, 
spacious closets
•Cable TV available 
•Off street covered parking available 
•Limo & bus at door 
•Resident storage space 
Furnished units available 
Weekdays .... Weeken95 621-4132 124
Announcements
Happy Birthday, A Phi O! For 57 years Kappa 
Chapter of Alpha Phi Omega has provided service 
for the Students of Carnegie Mellon and for the Pitts­
burgh Community.
Are your suitcases stuffed to the gills? Donate your 
old clothes to Goodwill! Boxes are in Morewood, Don- 
ner and Skibo. Another A Phi 0 service. 
Professional Women on Campus. Fashion show 
presented by Hit or Miss, Squirrel Hill, views the 
latest Spring Coordinates. The luncheon is held at 
noon on May 2 in the Skibo Ballroom. Cost is $4.50 
for non-members and $3.50 for members. To make 
a reservation call 268-6600 no later than April 30. 
The Knight Tuition Payment Plans information is be­
ing mailed to parents/ guardians of currently enroll­
ed freshmen, sophomores, and juniors and incom­
ing freshmen and transfer students. If the informa­
tion is not received by the second week of May, con­
tact the Controller’s Office, Warner Hall 416. Ap­
plications must be returned no later than June 2. 
Hunt Institute for Botanical Documentation. Hunt 
Institute exhibits over 70 examples of botanical prints 
through July 31. The show traces the curious and 
colorful history of printing botanical images over five 
centuries. Open to the public free of charge. The ex­
hibition is on display in the Penthouse of the Hunt
It’s Easy To Qualify 
For $400 from Ford 
Motor Company¦ You must receive at least a bachelor's degree or a state RN license between October 1, 1985 and September 30, 1986.
For Pre-approved 
Credit from Ford 
Credit¦ You must have verify able employment that begins within 120 days of your qualifying vehi­cle purchase at a salary sufficient to cover ordi- nary living expenses and your vehicle payment.
¦ Your credit record, if you have one, must indi- cate payment made as agreed.
Library from 8:30 am to noon and 1 pm to 5 pm, 
Monday through Friday.
Pittsburgh Center for the Arts. Judith Sullivan 
presents Fresh Art, multimedia objects through May 
18 at the Pittsburgh Center for the Arts, Fifth and 
Shady Avenues.
Volunteers. The Mt. Hood National Forest in the 
Cascade Range near Portland, Oregon, is looking for 
volunteers to work during the 1986 field season. 
Typical jobs include campground hosts, wilderness 
rangers, timber sale layout, trail maintenance, road 
surveying, fuels and fire projects. For applications, 
contact the College Placement Office or Linda Good­
man, Mt. Hood National Forest, 2955 NW Division 
Street, Gresham, OR 97030.
Scholarship Information. Students interested in 
receiving additional financial aid to attend college 
should write to the Scholarship Bank for a free copy 
of their new publication “How to Play Grantsman- 
ship.” The publication lists available grants and 
scholarships from private financial aid sources. Send 
a business-size, stamped, self-addressed envelope to 
The Scholarship Bank, 4626 N. Grand, Covina, CA 
91724.
American Electronics Association. The American 
Electronics Association is seeking 12 U.S. graduate 
students in electrical and computer engineering or 
computer science to work in the research laboratories 
of Japanese electronics companies starting in the fall
¦ And don't forget...you must receive at least a bachelor's degree or a state RN license between October 1, 1985 and Sep- tember 30, 1986.
These Vehicles Are 
Included In The PlanFord: Escort, Escort EXP, Tempo, Mustang, Thunderbird Mercury: Lynx, Topaz, Capri, Cougar Ford Truck: Aerostar, Bronco II, Ranger, F-150&F-250
of 1986 after summer language instruction. For fur­
ther information and application materials, graduate 
students should contact the Engineering Dean’s of­
fice on campus, or the American Electronics Associa­
tion at 415-857-9300.
Pittsburgh Camerata Highlights English Music.
Pittsburgh Camerata presents concerts of vocal music 
from the courts and cathedrals of Tudor England. 
The program, tided “England Be Glad,” features 
motets and madrigals by sixteenth- century com­
posers such as William Byre, Thomas Weelkes, John 
Dowland and Orlando Gibbons at 3 pm, Sunday, May 
4 at Frick Fine Arts Auditorium in Oakland and 8 
pm, May 21 at St. Paul’s Episcopal Church, 1066 
Washington Road, Mt. Lebanon. All concerts open 
to the public. For more information call 422-8445. 
Old Allegheny Festival Choir holds auditions. The 
Old Allegheny Festival Choir, unaer the direction of 
Philip Aley, is holding auditions for all voice parts. 
For more information and to schedule an audition, 
contact director Philip Aley at 475-3436. 
Veterans’ Memorial Scholarship Fund. The 1986 
Coors Veterans’ Memorial Scholarship Fund provides 
more than $500,000 to the sons and daughters of 
American veterans. To be eligible for consideration, 
applicants must have completed at least one year of 
college, have a cumulative grade-point average of at 
least 2.75 on a 4.0 scale and be under 22 years of 
age as of July 1, 1986. Applicants must be
You are eligible for $400 even if you don't finance your purchase. Use it toward your down pay- ment or get a check from Ford after the purchase or lease.The amount of your pre- approved credit is deter- mined by the qualified vehicle you buy.If a vehicle is not in dealer stock, it must be ordered by June 1, 1986. Delivery of all vehicles must be taken by August 31, 1986.For complete details on how to get your $400 plus pre-approved credit, call the toll-free number today.
1-800-4^7-4065
GRAD UA TESCALL 1-800-4574065 FOR $400 ANDPREAPPROVEDCREDIT ON A NEW FORD

---------------------------------------------------

Page Dl2—The Tartan—April 29, 1986
dependents of American service personnel who were 
killed in action, are missing in action or who died 
in the line of duty. The student may reside anywhere 
worldwide, but must be enrolled full-time in an ac­
credited four-year institution of higher education in 
the U.S. Applications can be obtained from local 
Coors distributors or participating veterans organiza­
tions, by writing Coors Veterans’ Memorial Scholar­
ship Fund, P.O. Box 7529, Wheeling, II. 60090, 
or by calling toll-free to 1-800-49COORS. Deadline 
for completed applications and materials is July 1. 
Buhl Science Center. “Comet Hailey: Once in a 
Lifetime” is presented through May at 2 pm, Mon­
day through Friday; 11 am and 2 pm, Saturday; and 
2 pm and 4 pm, Sunday.
Buhl Science Center. “Magic Sky,” presented 
through May, provides younger students with an in­
troduction to the magic of the planetarium environ­
ment and the movement of objects in the sky at 12:30 
pm, Saturday and 3 pm, Sunday.
Buhl Science Center. Laserium. Journey to an 
energetic and colorful world where blazing lights and 
magical images glow, gyrate and flash to music by 
rock’s most spectacular artists in Laserium, presented 
live under the stars at 8 pm and 9:15 pm, Thursday 
through Sunday; and 3 pm, Saturday, through May. 
For more information call 321-5554.
Buhl Science Center. Laserium and Y97 FM are 
teamed up to present “Light Years,” with “classic 
trax” from the 50s, 60s and 70s, beginning May 1. 
Buhl Science Center. Brighten your world with 
COLOR, the sparkling exhibit. Nineteen do-it-yourself 
modules explore the mysteries behind everyday color 
phenomena. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm to 5 pm, 
Sunday through Friday; and 10 am to 5 pm, Satur­
day. For more information call 321-4300.
Buhl Science Center. Sci-Tech ’86. A selection of 
award winners from the 1986 Science and Engineer­
ing Fair is on display through May 24.
Cape Cod Summer Job Bureau. Cape Cod, 
Massachusetts and the off- shore islands of Nantucket 
and Martha’s Vineyard have more good paying jobs 
open to students and teachers this summer than ever 
before. Hiring continues through June, but the choice 
jobs generally go to those who apply earliest. For im­
mediate information on the many kinds of jobs 
available and details on how to apply, send a self- 
addressed stamped envelope to: Cape Cod Summer 
Job Bureau, Box 594, Room 8, Barnstable, MA 
02630.
Pittsburgh Playhouse Junior Children’s Theatre.
Little Red Riding Hood. Everybody loves Little Red 
Riding Hood...except that ding dong Wolf ...and to 
tell you the truth the Wolf is fond of her too; however 
he is kind of bashful and doesn’t like to admit it very 
much...which is kind of silly but that is the way he 
is. Also in our play is Little Red Riding Hood’s Gran­
ny... and she is just great and nice and you will love 
her forever and ever at 11 am and 2:30 pm, Satur­
days; and 2:30 pm, Sundays; through May 31. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse Junior Children’s Theatre. 
Cinderella. Cinderella is perhaps the best known story 
in all of children’s literature. This lovely play is one 
of the very best and is received by enthusiastic au­
diences everywhere from 11 am and 2:30 pm, Satur­
days; and 2:30 pm, Sundays; through May 31. 
Carnegie Mellon University Art Gallery. Califor­
nia Artists: Paintings and Sculpture is shown through 
June 15. The West Coast Art of painter David Amico 
and sculptor Mark Lere is on exhibit throughout the 
gallery. Gallery hours aie 10 am to 5 pm, Tuesday 
through Friday; 11 am to 5 pm, Saturday; and 1 pm 
to 4 pm, Sunday. The Gallery is at 407 South Craig 
Street.
Forbes Gallery. Greg Mottola, Andy Cook and Ben 
Jones present their work through May 4. Gallery 
hours are 11 am to 6 pm, Wednesday through Fri­
day and noon to 5 pm, Saturday and Sunday. Open­
ing April 29 from 7 pm to 9 pm. Refreshments 
served.
Intervarsity Christian Fellowship. Daily prayer 
meetings are held at 6 pm in the Chapel, Skibo room 
39, Monday through Saturday.
29
Tuesday
Movies
Thursday
Grand Illusion, starring Jean 
Gabin, Erich von Stroheim and Pierre Fresnay. 
Classic war film about French prisoners of war dur­
ing WWI. Excellent performances. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission 
$2.95.
Rocky IV, sponsored by AB films at 7 pm and 9 
pm in Ballroom. Admission $1.
Lectures
Metallurgical Engineering and Materials Science 
Staff Seminar. Dr. Paul S. Ho. IBM T.J. Watson 
Research Center, Yorktown Heights, speaks on 
“Metal-Polymer Interfaces and Their Applications 
to Packaging of Electronic Materials” at 3 pm in WeH 
7500. Informal discussions are held and 
Refreshments are available afterwards in WeH 2325.
Engineering and Public Policy Presentation. The
final presentation on “Local Emergency Response 
to Harzardous Materials Transportation Accidents in 
Allegheny County” describes the research and 
recommendations of the students under this topic at 
3:30 pm in the Adamson Wing. Refreshments 
served.
Engineering and Public Policy Presentation. The
final presentation on “The Indoor Radon Problem: 
Focus on Pennsylvania” describes the research and 
recommendations of the students under this topic at 
3:30 pm in the Wherrett Room. Refreshments 
served.
Music
Student Recital. Monique Lipchik, violoncello, per­
forms at 8 pm in the Alumni Concert Hall, CFA.
Wednesday30
Movies
The Big Sleep, starring Humphrey 
Bogart and Lauren Bacall. A masterpiece of the 
detective film genre. Bogart goes to work for a retired 
military man with two daughters; one is a sultry 
Bacall; the other sucks her thumb. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7:30 and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Lectures
Department of Statistics Program. Professor 
Christine Waternaux, Harvard School of Public 
Health, speaks on “Methods of Analysis of 
Longitudinal Data: Blood Lead Concentration and 
cognitive Development” at 4 pm. Professor Evelyn 
Bromet, Department of Epidermiology and 
Psychiatry, University of Pittsburgh, holds a discus­
sion on “Epidermiological Issues” at 4:45 pm. Pro­
fessor Robert Kass, Department of Statistics, holds 
a discussion on “Statistical Issues” at 5 pm. Open 
discussion is held at 5:15 pm. The program is held 
in the Adamson Wing. Wine and cheese reception 
is held at 5:30 pm in the Statistics Lounge. For more 
information call 268-8872.
Clubs
AIESEC, an international, student-run business 
organization, offers a world of experience, both prac­
tical and cultural. Meetings are held at 4:30 pm in 
Skibo room 11.
French Table. The Modern Languages Program 
sponsors a French Language Table every Wednes­
day at noon in the Morewood Cafeteria.
Alpha Phi Omega. Meetings are at 8:30 pm in the 
Adamson Wing.
1
Sports
Golf. PAC Championships at Avalon Lakes. 
Special Events2
Friday
Sports
Museum of Art Special Programs and Events.
Parent/Child ARTexpress provides weekly activities 
for adults and children from 10 am to 11:30 am 
every Thursday. Advance registration. For more in­
formation call 622-3241.
Music
Opera Workshop Production. An operalogue 
presentation of Mozart’s Le Nozze di Figaro, in 
English. Ralph Zitterbart, artistic and musical direc­
tor, and Richard Getke, dramatic director, perform 
at 8 pm in the Alumni Concert Hall, CFA.
Clubs
German Table. The Modern Languages Program 
sponsors a German Language table at noon in the 
Morewood Cafeteria.
CMU Explorers Club. If you’re interested in rock 
climbing, kayaking, caving and hiking, come to a 
meeting at 6:30 pm in BH 131B. Trips every 
weekend. Beginners are welcome.
Golf. PAC Championships at Avalon Lakes
Men’s Tennis. PAC Championships.
Men’s Track and Field. PAC Championships. 
Women’s Track and Field. PAC Championships.
Music
Guest Recital. Yuko Heberlein, violin, performs at 
8 pm in the Alumni Concert Hall CFA.
Clubs
Intervarsity Christian Fellowship. Large group 
meetings are held at 7 pm in Skibo room 12.3
Saturday
Sports
Men’s Tennis. PAC Championships. 
Men’s Track and Field. PAC Championships. 
Women’s Track and Field. PAC Championships. 
The Kentucky Derby.Sunday
4
Music
Graduate Recital. Marlyn Chen, piano, per­
forms at 8 pm in the Alumni Concert Hall, CFA.
The Tartanwould like towish everyonegood luck ontheir finals andan enjoyable andsafe summer. We will appearagain onSeptember 9.
