Volume 95, Issue 3tartan@andrew.cmu.edu18 September 2000
Entertainment
Conductor Mariss Jansons and 
violinist Hilary Hahn shine in the 
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra’s 
fall season opener, 
page D1
Tuesday Carnegie Mellon’s Student Newspaper Since igo6
Tuesudeay
Hi 80/Lo 58
POleayTHE TARTAN
Forum
The US delivers justice to 
Wen Ho Lee. 
page A8
Sports
Both men’s and women's 
soccer teams won at home. 
Football loses home opener, 
page B1
Arts & Living
Read all about the 
Wats:on? Festival and the 
professor of the week, Dr. 
Hugh Young, 
page C1
Business
If we told you, you'd never
understand.
page B6
Master Plan 
undergoes 
continued 
development
by Cam CrewsStaffwriter
The' Gamptis Master Plan 
moved forward over the summer ; 
with the completion of additions ' 
to Baker and,frostier Halls, along j 
with further exploration of hous- | 
ing, parking, and maintenance I 
issues. This is the sixth such mas- | 
ter plan in University history and j 
follows the previous plan which | 
was fulfilled by 1997.
Currently, the steering com- L 
mittee is looking to. hire a traffic j 
consultant to study the traffic | 
flow from Forbes Avenue and | 
judge the feasibility of several j 
options, said Kevin Lamb, the | 
planning director. Proposals j 
include expanding parking, j 
widening sidewalks, and reduc- | 
ing Forbes Avenue from four to j 
three lanes. Narrowing Forbes. | 
Avenue would .help internalize j 
the road with a collegiate atmos- j 
phere but is a “longsliot” and 
would require city/approval, j 
according to Lamb. /
Repairs to a cracked steam j 
pipe beside the fence over the j 
spring destroyed /the roots of a j 
large sycamore /tree beside the j 
clock and two;- crabtrees along j 
the pathway from between the 
CFA parking-lot and Doherty I 
Hall. At the suggestion of the 
.Hunt family; several more crab­
trees were’ removed from the 
path and a sycamore and oak 
tree were pruned, providing a 
more clear view of the Hunt j
Library from Forbes Avenue, said !
Tellers who has worked with the j
Hunt family on this matter.
According to Lamb, while the j
student body was away “not a j
heck of a lot ... happened over j
the summer,” other than the j
completion of existing projects. 
Baker Hall construction is in the I
-final stages with a new stepless j
entrance ramp nearly completed j
and landscaping planned for the 
surrounding area. The H&SS ; 
Advising Center is relocating into 
the new Southeast wing of Baker | 
Hall this week.
Construction of the third floor 
of Posner Hall concluded over I
¦the summer and holds primarily |
offices and conference rooms. 
Additions to both Baker and 
Posner combine modern interior 
design with exteriors matching j
See PLAN, page A7
E, dCom nitpCIManaging Editor 
. ucjI, |itpC'Senior Staffwriter
The “zoo” sign that hangs outside 
of Sigma Nu’s fraternity house has 
recently gained new meaning. It 
describes the conditions the broth­
ers feel that they have been living 
under since returning to their house 
for the fall semester. Although 
Housing Services told the brothers 
that renovations to the house would 
be completed during the summer, 
they arrived back to discover that 
their expectations had not been met.
In addition to dealing with ongo­
ing construction, the brothers also 
claim that, until recently, faulty 
drain installations in their first floor 
storage room led to flooding, toilets 
on their third floor didn’t flush, and 
poor ventilation caused the spread 
of bacteria and fear of disease. They 
also claim that their safety needs 
weren’t being met by the temporary 
wooden doors on the outside of their 
house, and the lack of any doors on 
brothers’ rooms and bathrooms. 
They continue to find fault in the 
exposed wiring in their shower, 
missing glass in their decorative
doors, and poorly sealed porch.
“This isn’t like the second day we 
moved in and a few things still need 
to be ironed out. This is just blatant 
incompetence as far as I’m con­
cerned,” said Dirk Vanderberg, pres­
ident of Sigma Nu (Sig Nu) and a 
senior electrical and computer engi­
neering major.
“We agree that in an ideal situa­
tion the house should have been 
completed on time,” said Tim 
Michael, director of Housing 
Services, adding that realistically, 
such projects are rarely completed 
according to schedule.
Sig Nu was not the only fraternity 
renovated this summer. Sigma Phi 
Epsilon (Sig Ep) moved from/their 
former location in Margaret 
Morrison Apartments to the quad. 
According to Josh Burnett, president 
of Sig Ep and a senior mechanical 
engineering major, the fraternity 
agreed to move to the. quad under 
the stipulation that Housing would 
completely renovate the facility 
before they moved in.
They too, have felt somewhat 
inconvenienced by renovation 
delays. Specifically, Sig Ep has dis­
covered that what they thought was 
paint on the walls is .actually primer, 
See HOUSING, page A5
Bryan Kaplan/Photo Editor
ej>; VitpCtEC>g, omC p>C'jpCto of djgci su, 'mowCp off 'ocC of omC fiuIo' jt omC >Ctoviojot of omC djgci su f>i­
oC>tjo, mou'C. TmC E>oomC>' 'ojII po too mivC it, gIi'' jt omCj> poo>', iIotg wjom 'CvC>iI oomC> p>oEICc'.Greek recruitment yields mixed results
E, u>jt dzCooJunior Staffwriter
Loud chants emanating from the 
fraternity quad. Girls and guys on 
campus wearing Greek letters on 
their shirts. As inevitable as the 
beginning of classes and the pur­
chasing of textbooks, so began 
another year of formal member-' 
ship recruitment for CMU fraterni­
ties and sororities.
Sorority recruitment officially 
began on Thursday, September 14 
with a round of parties and in- 
house events that lasted through 
Sunday, September 17. Over a hun­
dred potential new members visit­
ed the houses, which were decked 
out in themes such as “Times of 
Day” and the traditional “Greek 
Gods and Goddesses,” and spent 
time getting to know members 
from each of the five sororities. 
Current sorority sisters performed 
skits, and RhoChis (unaffiliated 
recruitment counselors) were on 
hand to answer questions and edu­
cate potential new members about 
what opportunities each house has 
to offer. Bids were announced on 
Sunday and new members entered 
their chosen sorority to the cheers 
of their new sisters.
Monica Bebie, Student Life 
Greek Advisor, believes very highly 
in the integrity of the recruitment
process. She states, “It’s a mutual 
selection process where the deci­
sion to enter a house lies more 
with the potential new . members 
than with the girls in the-.sorority. 
It works well, and we usually place 
most of the girls in a house. I’d say 
below one percent of girls don’t get 
placed anywhere.” Bebie is also 
enthusiastic .that, more girls 
shbwed interest- in sorority life this 
¦year than ever before. Potential 
new riiembers included-, many 
more sophomores and juniors than 
usual, and the number of sign-ups
has more than doubled from 70 to 
150 in just the past two years.
Bebie attributes this increase to 
better advertising tactics. 
Sororities spent more effort pro­
moting their chapters with sum­
mer mailings, posters and fliers, 
RhoChis spoke with more students 
about participating in Greek life, 
and the sign-up table in front of 
Doherty Hall was set up for a 
longer amount of time than in pre- 
:•%&>$: ;>£a'rs. • ..
Fraternity recruitment began 
See FMR, page A7
BrB nave any gidib in men uuuis, caiuug yBrB seveidi umei (Jiuuieius.New Campus Virtual 
Tour brings CMU to 
prospective students
Sara Henneberger/Assistant Production Manager
VitC''i GC>EC>, ni>omi OooCtECtEC>g, OicmCiI HoIE>oo;, itp yuit Qjotg 
Titg iII iooCtpCp'cCCojtg' ot omC fjtiI pi, of do>o>jo, PnO. aII of omC 
'o>o>jojC' ittoutcCp omCj> Ejp' ot dutpi,.
E, di>i dojIICNews Editor
A new Campus Virtual Tour Web 
site was recently completed and 
linked from the main CMU Web site 
in order to allow prospective stu­
dents to get a glimpse of acadcmic 
and residential buildings on cam­
pus. The tour is more than just a 
series of stationary photos, though. 
Instead, it allows students to zoom 
in and out and move around the 
chosen scene, giving the feeling of 
actually being there.
According to Lisa Kulick, the 
associate director of Public 
Relations, the tour was created 
from a recruitment perspective, so 
that prospective undergraduate 
students, prospective graduate stu­
dents, and other interested audi­
ences would be able to view the 
campus before actually coming for 
a visit or in place of visiting cam­
pus. “A virtual tour is one way to 
create a virtual experience of visit­
ing Carnegie Mellon,” said Kulick. 
“It’s important to note that the tour 
was not designed to help people 
navigate campus. It was created to 
let the audience experience a taste
of campus.”
Although the tour was created 
with prospective students in mind, 
Kulick said she hopes the tour cai 
be enjoyed by everyone, including 
current students, alumni, friends of 
the University, and faculty and 
staff.
The tour was created and devel­
oped by . University Relations’ 
Media Design Group and can be 
found at www.cmu.edu/vrtour. It 
uses QuickTime’s virtual reality 
technology to display 360-degree 
interactive, panoramic photos. 
Research began nearly a year ago 
and creative planning and develop­
ment started last winter. “We 
waitfed] until the leaves and flow­
ers bloomed to get beautiful out­
door images for the debut of the 
tour. We plan to add new locations 
every month with seasonal pho­
tos,” said Kulick.
The site currently displays views 
of Donner House, Flagstaff Hill, 
Gesling Stadium, Highlander, Hunt 
Library, the Cut, the University 
Center, a Wean Cluster, and a cam­
pus overlook. There are plans to 
add new locations each month.
See TOUR, page A7
INSIDE THE TARTAN
Fraternity renovations do not live up to expectations
TmC njp-auouct PC'ojviI j' otC of omC co'o jcpo>oito o>ipjojotiI CmjtC'C fC'ojviI'. lo oi;C' pIicC ot omC 15om pi, of omC 8om 
cotom of omC Iuti> ciICtpi>, wmCt jo j' 'ijp omio omC coot j' io omC >outpC'o pojto fo> omC wmoIC ,Ci>. TmC moIjpi, j' 'uppo'Cp 
oo E>jtg mi>cot,, mippjtC'', itp Iuc;. apuIo' cCICE>ioC E, Ciojtg cootci;C' itp cmjIp>Ct pCco>ioC coIo>fuI IitoC>t'.
09

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN » SEPTEMBER 18, 2000National News
Clinton predicts more foreign visas
liminary charges of murder in the 
killings, authorities said.
Also arrested were Curtiss F. 
Smith, 24, of South Bend, and 
Charity Lynn Payne, 18, of North 
Liberty. Smith was arrested on a pre­
liminary charge of assisting a crimi­
nal, and Payne was arrested on a pre­
liminary charge of burglary, investi­
gators said.
The barn where the bodies were 
found is in a rural area midway 
between Lakeville and Lapaz in St. 
Joseph County, about 25 miles 
south of South Bend.
Sperm whale may 
be held captive
KEY WEST, Fla. (AP) — A baby 
pygmy sperm whale found strand­
ed on a Key West beach might 
become the first of its species to 
live permanently in captivity 
because it might not be able to 
hunt for food.
Marine mammal experts will
decide within the next few weeks 
whether Summer, a 205-pound, 
six-foot female whale found in 
June, can be released to her natur­
al habitat.
Experts say the calf, who was 
never weaned by her mother, can’t 
forage for food and possibly has a 
ruptured air sac on her head.
Though a ruptured sac isn’t seri­
ous in captivity, it makes deep div­
ing impossible. Pygmy sperm 
whales catch-squid and jellyfish at 
depths of more than 800 feet. 
Veterinarians are planning an MRI 
to determine the sac’s condition.
If marine biologists decide that 
Summer can’t be freed, the 11- 
month-old would be the only reha­
bilitated pygmy sperm whale in 
captivity. According to experts, the 
most time a baby pygmy sperm 
whale has lived in captivity after 
being stranded is 100 days.
The whale, named by handlers 
at Wildlife Rescue, has been living 
at a seaside nursery on Stock 
Island near Key West.World News
WASHINGTON (AP) — President 
Clinton predicted Saturday that 
Congress will increase the number 
of visas for foreign high-tech work­
ers before the end of the current 
session and indicated he would 
sign the legislation.
Speaking to reporters from India, 
origin of many of the so-called H1B 
visitors, Clinton said a major ques­
tion remaining is how many more 
than the current 115,000 a year 
will be allowed in.
H1B visas allow skilled workers 
to enter the United States for speci­
fied periods to do specific jobs for 
which employers say American 
workers are unavailable. The tech­
nology industry says the need is as 
high as 300,000 a year. Labor 
unions object to the concept, con­
tending that the high-tech industry 
recruits overseas mainly to hire a 
less expensive work force than 
Americans.
“The number of H1B visas will be 
increased in this Congress, I 
believe. I’ll be quite surprised if it
Daily Pennsylvanian (U. 
Pennsylvania) /(U-WIRE)
PHILADELPHIA — University pres­
idents across the country are under 
attack for the way they handle 
sweatshop issues.
A group of economists and 
lawyers, including a Nobel laure­
ate, is sending a letter to college 
and university presidents criticiz­
ing the decision-making process 
when it comes to labor monitoring 
organizations.
Over the past few years, sweat­
shop monitoring has become a 
major cause for student activists at 
Penn and across the country. 
Students at many schools — 
including the University of 
Wisconsin, the University of 
Michigan and Columbia University
— have held highly publicized 
protests and sit-ins over university 
policies for monitoring production 
of school-logo apparel.
Now more than 200 scholars 
belonging to the Academic 
Consortium on International Trade 
signed the letter saying that schools 
are caving too quickly to pressure 
from student activists and not 
reviewing their options effectively.
“We often encounter news 
reports of sit-ins by groups of stu­
dents ... after which decisions are 
often made without seeking the 
views of scholars,” the letter states.
There are two major monitoring 
groups — the Fair Labor 
Association (FLA) and the Worker
isn’t,” Clinton said.
“There’s no question that we’re 
going to increase the visas.”
The next Congress begins in 
January.
A long-pending Senate bill would 
increase the number of visas for 
each of the next three years to
200.000 a year. Otherwise, the
115.000 falls to 107,500 in the fis­
cal year starting October 1 and
65.000 a year after that.
The bill ran into problems this 
year when Clinton said in May that 
any visa increase had to be linked to 
changes in immigration policies 
mainly involving Hispanics. 
Republican leaders insist the two 
questions have nothing to do with 
each other and should be consid­
ered separately.
Senator Trent Lott, R-Mississippi, 
the Senate majority leader, acted 
Friday to bring a long-pending visa 
bill to a vote as early as TYiesday, 
September 19.
In his comments last Saturday, 
Clinton did not mention the
Rights Consortium (WRC). 
Students favor the WRC, saying it is 
less corporate in its interests.
The WRC has risen from less than
10 college members six months ago 
to 50 today, largely due to student 
pressure.
Currently, Penn does not belong 
to either organization. Penn 
Students Against Sweatshops have 
been calling for WRC membership 
since their sit-in last February, 
which succeeded in forcing Penn to 
pull out of the FLA.
The six authors of the letter 
emphasize the importance of 
process when schools choose to 
join monitoring groups.
“We need more consultation on 
the issues. They’re very complex, 
[and] we don’t want to be ruled by 
sit-ins,” co-author and University of 
Wisconsin economics professor 
Robert Baldwin said.
PSAS member and college junior 
Matt Grove defended PSAS’ actions 
last year when the group led a nine- 
day sit-in.
He said the student activist group 
had gone through all the appropri­
ate channels trying to persuade the 
administration to listen to their 
concerns. It was only when those 
means failed that PSAS decided 
that a sit-in was necessary.
Grove also emphasized that PSAS 
members made a point to study the 
sweatshop issue.
“Obviously our group had done 
lots of work regarding learning
Hispanic question or any other 
associated links.
“The issue is how much will it be 
increased by and can we use the 
occasion of increasing the quotas to 
get some more funds from the com­
panies that are hiring people for 
the training of our own people,” the 
president said. He said they “could 
also do these jobs — the people 
who are already here — if they had 
training.”
Lott’s spokesman, John 
Czwartacki, welcomed the presi­
dent’s comments, but said a lot of 
time has been wasted on the bill..
“We’ve been trying to take it out 
for months now, but the Democrats 
in Congress have been inventing all 
kinds of reasons why it couldn’t 
come out. The real reason was their 
labor friends didn’t like it,” 
Czwartacki said.
“If the president is signaling his 
support for us, we welcome that 
and view that as a positive develop­
ment, albeit at the eleventh hour,” 
Czwatacki said.
about [the FLA and WRC],” he said. 
“We were not uneducated on these 
issues when we had the sit-in.”
WRC Interim Director Maria 
Roeper also criticized the letter’s 
assertion that decisions were being 
made in a haphazard fashion.
“Most of the decisions to join the 
WRC have been done through a 
committee process,” she said.
Academic Consortium members 
worry about more than just the 
process through which the deci­
sions are made, however. They are 
also concerned about the FLA and 
the WRC’s commitment to improve 
workers’ wages, which may very 
well mean paying workers above 
the minimum or prevailing wage.
That could actually be more 
harmful than helpful for workers, 
the Academic Consortium believes.
“The net result would be shifts in 
employment that will worsen the 
collective welfare of the very work­
ers in poor countries who are sup­
posed to be helped,” the consor­
tium’s letter warns.
It is unclear what type of recep­
tion the letter will receive when it 
makes it into the hands of universi­
ty presidents.
Included among the 200 signa­
tures is that of Robert Lucas, a 
Nobel laureate and professor of 
Economics at the University of 
Chicago. He signed the letter 
because he feels that “people ought 
to be well informed before they 
make decisions.”
Four arrested for 
Indiana slayings
LAKEVILLE, Ind. (AP) — Police 
arrested four people Saturday in 
connection with the execution- 
style killings of three construction 
workers found dead inside a barn 
where they were installing a loft.
The bodies of Wayne A. 
Shumaker, 59; Corby Myers, 30; 
and Lynn Ganger, 54, were found 
last Thursday afternoon by a co­
worker.
Each victim had been shot in the 
head, and all were found with their 
hands tied behind their backs, said 
Mike Swanson, commander of the 
St. Joseph County Special Crimes 
Unit.
Swanson said the three workers 
may have stumbled upon a bur­
glary attempt.'“It appears they 
were caught by surprise,” he said.
Robert Lee Washington Jr., 20, 
and Phillip A. Stroud, 21, both of 
South Bend, were arrested on pre-
Peru’s president 
calls for elections
LIMA, Peru (AP) — President 
Alberto Fujimori, besieged by a 
bribery scandal surrounding a top 
political aide, announced in a 
nationwide television address 
Saturday that he was calling new 
elections and that he would not be 
a candidate.
Fujimori also said he would deac­
tivate the National Intelligence 
Service, whose powerful head has 
been accused of offering bribes to 
an opposition congressman to sup­
port the government.
“After a profound reflection, and 
an objective evaluation of the cir­
cumstances, I have made the deci­
sion, first, to deactivate the system 
of national intelligence and, in sec­
ond place, call in the quickest time 
possible general elections,” 
Fujimori said in his address.
“In these general elections, it’s 
obvious he who is speaking will 
not participate,” he said.
He did not announce a date for 
the new vote.
The authoritarian Fujimori was 
elected to an unprecedented third 
five-year term in voting that ended 
with a second round in May. His 
opponent had dropped out 
because of allegations of vote-fix- 
ing and Fujimori’s victory brought 
heavy criticism from the United 
States and other nations.
Opposition demands for new 
elections have heightened since 
a video was released Thursday 
allegedly showing intelligence 
chief Vladimiro Montesinos, a 
close Fujimori adviser, offering 
bribes to an opposition con­
gressman.Hours before Fujimori’s
announcement, the Organization 
of American States issued a 
strongly worded demand
Saturday that he suspend 
Montesinos and other officials 
allegedly linked to the scandal, 
warning that otherwise attempts 
at reconciliation with the opposi­
tion would be damaged.
A leading opposition congress­
man, Henry Pease, questioned 
whether Fujimori could carry out 
his promise and said that it could 
be that Montesinos, long consid­
ered the power behind the gov­
ernment, would stay and Fujimori 
go. Pease also expressed concern 
over the lack of a timetable for 
elections.
Truckers try to 
win in Europe
LONDON (AP) — The 
Netherlands and Hungary handed 
concessions to truckers Saturday 
to avoid more of the fuel-price 
protests that have clogged 
Europe’s highways, but Germany 
warned its truckers of a crack­
down if blockades intensified.
British motorists were still lining 
up at gas stations two days after 
truckers ended their blockades of
oil facilities as the country worked 
to recover from the protest. 
Scattered protests continued in 
parts of Europe.
After initially refusing any subsi­
dies to truckers, the Dutch govern­
ment agreed to give taxi, bus and 
trucking companies, as well as other 
fuel-using companies, some $300 
million to compensate for high fuel 
prices, Dutch television said. 
Companies also will be granted an 
extra three months to pay road 
taxes.
Dutch truckers, who have para­
lyzed highways with roadblocks for 
nearly a week, halted their protests. 
They had threatened action on 
Tuesday, when Queen Beatrix is due 
to ride through the streets of The 
Hague in a horse-drawn carriage to
Parliament to present the annual 
budget.
Hungarian truckers had also 
threatened protests, but the gov­
ernment averted that for the time 
being at least when they agreed 
Saturday to postpone a 6 percent 
increase in excise taxes as long as 
the world crude oil price remains 
above $25 a barrel.
“This was an important achieve­
ment for us,” said Istan Galambos, 
spokesman for the seven organiza­
tions representing truckers and 
taxi drivers. Union officials agreed 
in return to hold off on any demon­
strations while the two sides hold 
further negotiations next week.
Without the revenues expected 
from the delayed tax, which' had 
been due to start January 1, “we’ll 
just grit our teeth and squeeze it 
out without backtracking on our 
planned public sector wage hikes 
and investment plans,” Economics 
Minister Gyoergy Matolesy said.
MOL, the Hungarian oil and gas 
company, raised wholesale gaso­
line prices by 2.7 percent and 
diesel prices 5.4 percent Friday.
European governments have 
taken a variety of stances when 
faced by the truckers’ protests that 
have swept across the continent, 
starting in France on September 4. 
France granted the truckers a tax 
break. The British government 
rejected any changes in its fuel 
taxes, Europe’s highest.
Europe adopted high gas taxes 
decades ago as an environmental 
measure to discourage excessive 
fuel consumption. Taxes range 
from 51 percent in Greece to 73 
percent in Britain, where diesel 
cost an average of $4.33 a gallon 
last month.
Crude oil prices have tripled 
since last December, to more than 
$30 per barrel from $10, reaching 
a level transport workers call a 
threat to their livelihood.
Corrections & Clarifications
The Tartcin corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of an error, please contact Editor-in-Chief Ish Harshawat 
atx8-2'lll or tartan@andrew.cmu.edu.
Professors discourage activist pressure
To thosewho have been searching 
for technological bliss.
"Nirvana awaits."
SOFTWARESYSTEMS
C/UslX euVu|OPuOd 
C++/UslX euVu|OPuOd 
C++/TlseOTd euVu|OPuOd 
C++/naC euVu|OPuOd 
dydTun asa|ydTd 
TuCHslCa| TOlTuOd 
POOJuCT nasaGuOd 
TuCHslCa| nasaGuOd
UslX dydTund aenlsldTOaTOOd 
UslX dydTund POOGOannuOd 
dyBadu eB aenlsldTOaTOOd 
dyBadu dydTund aenlsldTOaTOOd 
Taseun eB aenlsldTOaTOOd 
UslX TuB duOVuO aenlsldTOaTOOd 
duCUOlTy dPuCla|ldTd 
UslX dydTund nasaGuOd
QANETWORKING
• UslX dT TudTuOd
• TlseOTd dT TudTuOd
• TuCHslCa| nasaGuOd
suTTOOK usGlsuuOd 
suTTOOK aOCHlTuCTd
AOL — it's the thinking person's technology, and it's what you’ve been searching for.
We offer an outstanding compensation package including an attractive salary, stock options and excellent benefits. For more 
information on our exciting career opportunities, check out our Web site at: www.aol.com/careers. When submitting 
your resume online, please reference the following source code: 07CMU. EOE
yimsocE AEwrasKi©.w w w. aol.co m/c a. re e r s
you cando more
io GOOelas omit io it, oomC> 'jtgIC cocpit,. 
_______________________ tow that j' i goop jpCi.
Desired Majors: 
Computer Science • ECE 
EE - MechE • Physics 
Math • Industrial Design 
Technical WritingGOOelas j' Ioo;jtg fo> oiICtoCp CtgjtCC>' 
itp cocpuoC> 'cjCtoj'o' wmo wito oo cotojtuC 
i o>ipjojot of ICipjtg-CpgC oCcmtoIog, 
p>opuco' itp jttoviojvC p>oEICc-'oIvjtg.
To 'jgt-up fo> it jtoC>vjCw, 'uEcjo ,ou> 
>C'ucC CjomC> vji JoET>i;/ItoC>vjCwT>i; o> vji 
CcijI oo >Cc>ujo@go>pIit.coc.
eot'o cj'' omj' cmitcC oo po co>C wjom 
,ou> IjfC.
Gordian @ CMU - On-Campus Dates
TOC 2000 Career Fair
September 21,10 a.m. - 5 p.m. 
University Center, booth #68
Info Session »fOATla
September 25, see JobTrak for time. 
Porter Hall 226A. Pizza for resumes!
Interviews
September 26, 9 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. 
Career Center 09
20361 Irvine Ave. • Santa Ana Heights • CA 92707 • www.gordian.com

---------------------------------------------------

Technical Opportunities Conference
The Societv of Women F/np-ineers would lïkp
^jn inursaay, ^eptemoer zist, rrom luam to 
5pm approximately 190 technical firms and 
companies will be in the Rangos Ballroom, 
the University Center Gym, and the Peter/ 
Wright/McKenna room to meet and recruit CMU 
students for full-time positions and summer 
internships.
Put on your best business suit, bring your resumes 
and take advantage of the largest technical 
recruiting event all year.
Adiranz -Advanced Micro Devices • Agilent Technologies -Air Products and Chemicals, Inc. -Alphatech - Alteon Web Systems - Altera 
Corporation - Amazon.com - Amdahl • America Online - American Managementsystems, Inc (AMS) - Andersen Consulting - Annuncio Software - 
Ansoft Corporation - Apple - AT&T -ATL Ultrasound, a Philips Company - Automated Travel Systems, Inc. -BAE Systems - Bank of America 
Corporation -twnlu.com - Bayer Corporation • Bechtel Bettis, Inc. -Bechtel Plant Appartus Divison - Bentley Systems Inc. -BIT Group -BlackRock • 
Blue Martini Software -BOC Gases - Bristol-Myers Squibb ¦ Broadband Sports, Inc. • BSQUARE Corporation • BusinessEdge Solutions Inc. ¦ 
Cadence Design Systems -Capital One -Caterpillar, Inc. Cerebellum Software Inc. Cisco Systems Inc. CMGI Solutions -CNH - 
CollegeHire.com • Color Kinetics -CoManage Corporation -Compaq Computer Corporation -Computer Associates International -Cytec Industries 
Inc. -DaimlerChrysler • Dean & Company - Dell Computer Corporation -Deloitte Consulting • Diamond Technology Partners • Dick Corporation - 
Digex, Inc. -Documentimi - Dominion -drugstore.com E.piphany - Eastman Kodak Company -EDS -Electronics For Imaging (EFI) -ENSCO, Inc.
¦ Ernst & Young Consulting -ESI -eToll,Inc. - Excite® Ho me • FactSet Research Systems Inc. • Federated Investors -First USA Bank -Ford Motor 
Company -FreeMarkets, Inc. -Fujitsu Network Communications, Inc. -General Motors Corporation -Genuity -Globix Corporation -Go2Net - 
Goldman Sachs-IBD Systems Group -Google Gordian -Green Hills Software, Inc. ¦ Harris Corporation • Hewlett-Packard Company -Hughes 
Space and Communications -HyperionSolutions Corp. -i2Technologies -IBM - IMakeSoftware & Services • InfoCanvas Software - Intel 
Corporation • iventurelab.com, Inc. • Johnson <& Johnson -Johnson, Mirmiran & Thompson - Keithley Instruments, Inc. • KLA-Tencor Corporation • 
Knowledge Strategies Group -Kulicke&Soffa Industries Inc. ¦ Kurt Salmon Associates • L.Robert Kimball & Associates -Laurel Networks, Inc. • 
Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory' - Lehman Brothers • Lockheed Martin -Logistics.com -Lucent - LuIron Electronics Co., Inc. -MARC 
Systems Inc. -Marconi -McKinsey & Company, Inc. • Mellon Financial Corporation • Merck & Co., Inc. - Information Services ¦ Mercury Computer 
Systems, Inc. Michael Baker, Jr., Inc. - Microsoft • MicroStrategy, Inc. - MIT Lincoln |iEo>ioo>, - Morgan Stanley Dean Witter ¦ Morgan Stanley 
Dean Witter-Information Technology -Motorola -MPR Associates, Inc. -MS2 -MuniAuction ¦ National Instruments -NationalSecurity Agency - 
Navy Officer Programs -NBC Internet • Neo Linear, Inc. - Network Appliance • Network Elements -Northrop Grumman -NOVA Chemicals Inc. • 
Nuance Communications OneSoft Corporation • Oracle Corporation • Portal Software, Inc. -Primix Solutions • Proxicom, Inc. -Quantum 
Corporation -Quark, Inc. Quidnunc ¦ Raytheon Company - Reactivity ¦ Read-RiteCorporation -Sandata,Inc Sapient -Science Applications 
International Corporation (SAI) -SeagateTechnology -SGI -Siebel Systems, Inc. -Siemens -Slam Dunk Networks -Smith Kline Beecham • 
Spinnaker Networks, Inc. -Standard Microsystems Corporation (SMSQ • Stottler Henke Associates, Inc. • Strategic Analysis, Inc. ¦ 
SubmitOrder.com Sun Microsystems ¦ Symbol Technologies, Inc. -Synygy, Inc. • TenFold Corporation -Teradyne, Inc. -Texas Instruments -The 
MITRE Corporation -The MONYGroup -The Motley Fool -The Procter ¿Gamble Co. -ThermoRetec -Tigris Consulting -Travelers Property 
Casualty -Trilogy Software -TTC - U.S. Patent and Trademark Office -UBS Warburg -Valspar Corporation • VeriSign, Inc. -Verizon 
Communications -Viant -Visteon Automotive Systems -Walker Digital -West Group • Westinghouse Electric Company -
Xcelerate Corporation -Xilinx • Xpedior, Inc. -yourfit.com
check out our site www.cmu.edu/toc

---------------------------------------------------

There’s a place for you at Apple.
Apple Info Session, September 20,6 - 8 pm 
Tech Opps Conference, September 21,10 am - 5 pm 
Campus Interviews, October 16 & 17
(visit your Career Center for more details)
wwwapple.com/jobs/college
Think different:
©2000 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved. Tbje /\pple logo and Think different are trademarks ofApple. Apple is committed to diversity. We welcome applications from all individuals. EOE.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN • SEPTEMBER 18, 2000
Fraternities voice concern with Housing’s handling of renovation process
HOUSING, from page A1
their house was missing letters for the first several days 
of rush, and they did not initially have any interior 
doors.
Burnett believes that both Housing and the contrac­
tor, Rycon Construction, are at fault. “I think 
[Housing] probably should have been watching the 
contractor but at the same time it’s also the contrac­
tor’s fault that things aren’t done,” said Burnett.
According to Doug Gawronski of Rycon 
Construction, who served as the project manager for 
the fraternity renovations, the company was not as 
much to blame as the time constraints were. An eleven- . 
week period does not provide much leeway for materi­
als delays and unanticipated complications, he said.
Michael agreed that the timeline for the renovations . 
was ambitious. He said, however, that unlike many- 
other universities, CMU does not have the luxury of 
closing buildings down for a semester to do renova­
tions.
Lost in the Shuffle
The renovations have also resulted in the loss of sev-1 
eral of the fraternities’ belongings. The brothers claim’ 
to have carefully marked items, such as an antique; 
desk, their oft-used Carnival booth, and some broth­
ers’ personal items, so that they would not be discard­
ed before the renovations. As of yet, these items and 
others have not been found. Vandenberg estimates the ' 
loss at about $5,000.
Michael said that the lost items are almost inevitable . 
in any type of moving situation. Often, he said, items 
that are meant to be kept are not clearly marked as ¦ 
such.
Vandenberg, however, feels that there are at least i 
some items that could not have been mistaken for- 
trash. “Our 85-year-old bar that was from our original ' 
mansion, we painstakingly took it out of the wall and -: 
marked it ‘save this, save this, save this.’ They threw it : 
out,” said Vandenberg.
Michael acknowledged that some things, such as a 
meat slicer, were incorrectly discarded. He said Dan 
Askin, Fraternity Facility Coordinator for Housing 
Services, is working with the chapter to replace certain 
items.
“The direction we had was that everything inside 
[the house] was to go. If anything was to be kept, it 
should have been packed up by the moving company,” 
said Gawronski.
Complicated Communications
Si^ Nu Vice President Rich Friedberg, a senior infor­
mation and decision systems major, said he tried on 
numerous occasions to get some answers from Michael 
about compensation and return of the lost items.
“Tim Michael refused to meet with me on the matter. 
He doesn’t respond to my emails,” said Friedberg. 
“Dan Askin finally responded with an updated copy of 
the list.”
Burnett said that Askin is making efforts to listen to 
the fraternity’s concerns. “He doesn’t just give us the 
cold shoulder. He actually is trying to work for us and 
we really appreciate that,” he said.
“Anyone that places a call to our office gets a call 
back from the most appropriate person. I believe we 
have been very responsive to Greeks on campus,” said 
Michael.
While Vandenberg agrees that Askin has been help­
ful, he feels that an overall lack of communication is a 
concern. He believes this problem can be partially 
attributed to the fact that administrators are in a posi­
tion of power over the fraternities.
“In all of our arguments with them ... it always 
comes down to, if you don’t like it, move out, which is 
impossible,” said Vandenberg. Burnett agreed and 
pointed out that high costs and zoning laws make stay­
ing on campus the only feasible alternative.
Both fraternity presidents also agree that adminis­
trators use this position of power to change building 
specifications from those initially discussed. For exam­
ple, in renovations on both Sig Ep and Sig I^u, floors';: 
were installed in certain rooms that were .different 
than those Originally agreed upon.
Gawronski said that his company worked off of the' 
specifications given to them by Housing and the arch ir 
tects. He said that it is common for adjustments in ini­
tial plans to :be changed clue to a lack of materials or to' 
an administrative decision to cur costs. These decisions 
are not always communicated back to the end’ user ,by 
the appropriate administrators, said Gawronski.. [
Setting a Standard
Despite complaints, Michael indicated that he does 
not think there is a strained relationship betvyeen 
Housing and the fraternities. He said their relationship 
is primarily defined by their lease, and other than deal­
ing with the facility, he thinks Housing respects their 
desire to live independently.
Vandenberg disagrees, citing Housing’s insistence 
on standardization as a policy, that encroaches on his 
fraternity’s independence. He said that conflicts' With 
Housing, surrounding the removal of Sig IjJu’s insignia 
are a particularly offensive example. |
Michael said that part of the plan to renovate the 
quad calls for the standardization of die buildings’ 
exteriors. This standardization involves: each, house 
having one set of similar letters and anj inlaid crest.. 
Although Sig Nu was initially .told that! they/would 
need to remove their “Zoo” sign, Michael said/that he. 
later agreed to let the house keep the sign since the 
brothers felt it was a strong identifier. ; !
However, Michael did:not agree to allow the house 
to keep their insignia, which faced Morewood. 
According to Friedberg, Michael told workers to take it 
down on a Thursday, though by the following Monday 
it still hadn’t been removed. When Michael saw that 
the crest was still there, he asked workers to remove it 
and bring it to his office. Vandenberg stopped the 
worker, and brought the sign into his room, where it 
still remains.
“That’s insulting for him to do that to us,” said 
Vandenberg. “If he had just called me up and said, 
‘Why isn’t that crest down?’ I’d say ‘Cause you guys did­
n’t take it down. You’re late on that like everything.’”
Michael said that he wanted to remove the crest 
from Sig Nu’s possession so that they would not put it 
up again, believing that they had put it up against his 
direct request.
“I gave him my word that we wouldn’t interfere with 
.the workers,” said Friedberg. “I guess he wants to call 
me a liar to my face.” ¦(
Aside from issues of trust, Vandenberg was con-' 
cerned with Housing’s priorities. “[Michael] has the 
time to tell a construction worker that he needs to take 
an insignia down and bring it to the Housing office, but 
he does not have the time to get this punch list done,” 
he said.
The issue of standardization has been brought up 
before. According to Vilas Kuchinad, house manager of 
Theta Xi and a senior business major, when Theta Xi 
was renovated last year, the fraternity wanted to put 
up a second set of letters on the side of their house 
since they are located on a corner and can be 
approached from both sides.
“We were told by Housing that once houses were 
renovated, they would all be given the same size let­
ters, and allowed only to have one set of letters on their 
houses,” said Kuchinad. He said that although the new 
letters are of higher quality, they are about 1/3 the size 
of the former letters.
“[The crest] is something that’s been there for 20 
years and in the effort to homogenize the fraternity 
quad they don’t want it up because it makes the hous­
es a little different,” said Vandenberg.
Michael said that standardization does not inhibit 
diversity or creative expression: “The architecture, of 
our campus is one of .our defining characteristics. 
When'the, building- exteriors become billboards, our 
campus: appearance is diminished,” .said Michael, 
“These efforts hardly inhibit the creativity or . free 
expression of student, organizations to promote them­
selves and their identity to the campus community.”
Then and Now
The issues raised by this summer’s renovations are 
not the first of their: kind, Previous fraternity ,Tiouse 
renovations caused similar concerns.
“When we took possession of our house* a great deal 
. of work was still to be .completed. It was not until the 
end of September:or early October that we did riot have 
work crews in our.house on a daily basis,” said 
Kuchinad, who was Theta Xi’s renovations chair last 
year. “Even now, a year later, we are waiting for Work 
to be completed. Some problems are large such as the 
flooring, on the first floor is defective and needs to be 
replaced,” said Kuchinad.
Burnett said that before Sig Ep’s renovations, he 
became apprehensive after visiting Kappa Sigma, 
which was also renovated last year. His impression 
was that the renovation process had fallen short of i 
Kappa Sigma’s expectations.
“We learned a lot of lessons last year in terms of the | 
time required and the buildings themselves. We kept; 
the same contracting company but changed architects ; 
because we had some concerns,” said Michael, who; 
added that he felt the renovation process went more 
smoothly this year than last.
“As with any project, there are hang-ups at the end • 
called the punch list, which are the items remaining to 
be completed. This list is smaller this year,” said 
Michael.
Both Sig Ep and Sig Nu say that despite any prob­
lems they may currently be facing, they consider them­
selves lucky compared to the brothers in the older, yet! 
to be renovated houses.
“When you walk in, [the house] is bright, it’s clean, 
we have hardwood flooring,” said Burnett. “If 
[rushees] walk around to some of the houses and com­
pare the condition of ours to some of the other ones, 
they see it’s not bad.”
Michael appeared to be optimistic about the renova-1 
tions and feels that the problems are minimal in rela- ' 
tion to the broader improvements made.
“It is a sad fact that the things at the end overshad­
ow the good things,” said Michael.
' [Sean Mintus is the house manager for Sig Nu and a ' 
staffwriter for The Tartan. He did not contribute to this 
article.]
LUhat are you 
doing this 
uieekend?
STUD V 
ABROAD
SYHRLUSE
UNIUERS1TY
S p il 111 
Hung K ci li ij 
France
you cit mCIp.
UtjoCp Ti, gjfo' 'uppo>o ovC> 300 mucit 
'C>vjcC p>og>ic' omio mCIp pCopIC 
>jgmo mC>C jt ou> coccutjo,.
Puo ,ou> cotC, wmC>C ,ou> mCi>o j'.
For dOnuPeOPlE,
- ouR
Community
iSnT SOaBnKpl/P
A ui|iy iltc •iflitTj)u>U'iniiiin and firumiil infomuiion iif Unititi Wi^Sauthwotcm Fcmvylvuna may be rfxaincd fnim It* l-UXiunmvm «iTSiatehy ¿Umptoll fire, within fcmwytwnia; 1 (HOO) "32-OW. w.aolcm// dues mx imply cndiirsemenl.
Improve Your Health Naturally.1
Pittsburgh’s convenient natural food store
Natural & Organic Food ¦ Vitamins & Supplements
Natural Health & Beauty Aids • Organic Produce
^ 412-683-7035 &
5401 Baum Boulevard at South Aiken, Shady side 
Open 7 Vays a Week • Free Parking
THE SCIENCE OF SECRECY 
FROM ANCIENT EGYPT TO 
QUA NT UM . C RY PTOGRAPHYCOD
SIMON SINGHBeifif 11(11 j X*ihor licAUAl’4 eillCMABOO
ARE YOU PREPARED TO TAKE THE CIPHER CHALLENGE?
Included in the book is the worldwide Cipher Challenge, 
a 10-step code-breaking contest: A prize of $15.000 will 
be awarded to whomever cracks the code first.
STSELLER
'A fascinating 
glimpse into 
the mostly 
secret
competition 
between code 
makers and 
code breakers.... 
Entertaining 
and satisfying." 
Ente raimC
ANCHOR BOOKS © NOW IN PAPERBACK
for more information visit www.anchorbooks.com

---------------------------------------------------

iaignieäie Mellon University 
ÉjDC Conference
^ìffjnBndCooCcEC> 21
: For Imaging, Inc.
pioneer and market levelopment of products 
tagauallty digital printing
www.eficareers.bom for detailed jbb descriptions'. ERISffSrs a competitive salary, sjpck options, relocation plan and fefyll benefits package. To apply, email
Imaging
Utjvi?Why is TIAA-CREF the #1 choice nationwide?The TIAA-CREF Advantage.
Check School Email Anywhere!
ä TCIcocC oo CanPUdj.coc: you> cicpu' po>oiI!Hi
BIC upjo VjCw Pivo>joC'. TooI' ,CIp
! *. . J 0 4»
! Bic;Po>wi>p doop OCf>C'm HocC
! app>C'' 
1--------
1 htip://www.campusi.com
1—11
Check School Email Anywh
Email Address: 
|joC@'cmoej.Cpu 
(i.e. joe@nau.edu) 
Password:
Check My Mail
m :
CampusI.com
Envision
the Future
=j-=.
the iriciusB¦____ j^__:. .i*...j''op'> jt o>j:that ajlbte
O'/sr computar riacWâf
of Imaging
www.efi.com
jj||' l>p;j /j J jJ
Hardware 
Technical Support
UE&fl Ensuring the future 1.800.842.2776for those who shape itwww.tiaa-cref.org
For more complete information on our securities products, please call 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5S09, to request prospectuses. Read them carefully 
before you invest. • TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. distributes the CREF and TIM Rea! Estate variable annuities. • Teachers 
F'ersonal Investors Services, Inc. distributes the Personal Annuities variable annuity component, mutual funds and tuition savings agreements. • 
T1AA and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co., New York, NY, issue insurance and annuities. • TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust seivices.
• Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose vaiue and are not bank guaranteed. © 2000 TIAA-CREF 08/03
yCi> jt itp ,Ci> ouo, CcpIo,CC' io Cpuciojot itp 
>C'Ci>cm jt'ojouojot' mivC ou>tCp oo Tlaa-COuP.
atp fo> goop >Ci'ot':
• ui', pjvC>'jfjciojot icotg i >itgC of CxpC>oI, 
citigCp futp'
• a 'oIjp mj'oo>, of pC>fo>citcC itp CxcCpojotiI 
pC>'otiI 'C>vjcC
• a 'o>otg coccjocCto oo Iow CxpCt'C'
• PIu', i fuII >itgC of fICxjEIC >Coj>CcCto jtcocC opojot'
Po> pCcipC', Tlaa-COuP mi' mCIpCp p>ofC''o>' itp 'oiff 
io ovC> 9,000 cicpu'C' ic>o'' omC couto>, jtvC'o fo>— 
itp Ctjo,—'uccC''fuI >Coj>CcCto'.
Cmoo'jtg ,ou> >Coj>CcCto pIit p>ovjpC> j' 'jcpIC.
Go wjom omC ICipC>: Tlaa-COuP.
THE TIAA-CREF 
ADVANTAGE
Investment Expertise
Low Expenses
Customized 
Payment Options
Expert Guidance
Put Your Education to 
Work on Wall Street
Heartland Securities Corporation is 
an industry leader in 
electronic stock trading 
with more than 300 traders in 
New York City, New Jersey, 
Miami and Boston.
We execute over 700,000 trades 
per day and are one of the most 
active broker/dealers on 
NASDAQ.
Visit our booth at the 
2000 Career Showcase 
to learn more about our 
unparalleled opportunity for 
Securities Traders.
odmucMmsi
SECURITIES CORP.
New York - New Jersey - Miami - Boston 
www.hrld.com
3 Easy 
Steps!
71
Logon 
wwwcampusi com
2
Enter existing 
email address
'31
? Cash !n
Earn $150+ in minutes.
8] eotC;|j| |ociI jto>itCo

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN • SEPTEMBER 18,2000 A7
New members join Greek organizationsUniversity Master Plan
FMR, from page A1 
slightly earlier on Monday, August 
28. In addition to a barbecue held 
during orientation week for inter­
ested first-year students, fraterni­
ties advertised themselves by send­
ing out summer mailings, holding 
information sessions, handing out 
posters and pamphlets, and posting 
recruitment dates in student plan­
ners, calendars, and billboards. 
While sorority recruitment lasts 
four days, fraternity recruitment 
events lasted a total of three weeks.
The recruitment events, which 
ranged from white water rafting 
and paintball to rock climbing and 
games of Capture the Flag, intro­
duced potential new members to 
current fraternity brothers and 
gave them the chance to bond. 
Potential new members also
learned how the Greek organiza­
tions work, what they can get out of 
joining, and how they can con­
tribute as members.
According to Jayson DeLancey, a 
senior in information and decision 
systems, last year’s recruitment 
chairperson, and current president 
of Kappa Delta Rho, interest in fra­
ternities seemed to be down this 
year. “People are becoming more 
caught up in stereotypes and are 
failing to give it a chance. There’s a 
lot of hesitation to join,” he said. To 
thwart this attitude, DeLancey says 
that fraternity brothers are simply 
trying to talk to more people about 
the benefits of Greek life. They dis­
tribute pamphlets and often talk to 
students and parents about acade­
mic integrity, financial issues, and 
other concerns surrounding frater-
nity life.
Vilas Kuchinad, a senior in busi­
ness administration and president 
of the Interfraternity Council, says 
that though the overall number of 
interested candidates was down 25 
percent this year, 120 pledges still 
attended Pledge Night, which took 
place on Friday, September 15. 
Beta Theta Pi had the most new 
pledges with 27 in total, while Phi 
Kappa Theta and Theta Xi wel- j 
corned the second highest number 
with 12 each.
Of his experience as a potential 
new member during recruitment 
week and now a pledge at Delta 
Upsilon, Kenton Kline, a first-year 
psychology major said, “I didn’t 
think I would get this involved, but 
it was fun. Too many events in too 
little time!”
PLAN, from page A1 
the historic style of the campus, 
said University Architect Paul 
Tellers.
The Sigma Nu and Sigma Phi 
Epsilon fraternity duplexes are
completing renovation, and the 
Master Plan calls for additional 
rebuilding on the fraternity quad 
in the future although no 
timetable has been established. 
Four small special-interest houses
progresses
are planned to be built between 
Morewood and Mudge Houses. 
They will house an additional 150 
students and' lessen incidents of 
students living off campus, said 
Tellers.
Virtual Tour 
promotes 
campus
TOUR, from page A1
The team worked with the Office 
of Admission and other University 
offices that regularly interact with 
visitors and potential students in 
order to obtain strategic and com­
munication input. The design 
group also looked at Web tours 
from other universities and ana­
lyzed data from recruitment mar­
keting studies.
The tour is currently featured on 
the admission and prospective stu­
dent Web sites, which are already 
heavily visited by prospective stu­
dents. Also as recruitment publica­
tions go into production, the Web 
address could be included. “At this 
time, there is no plan for direct mail 
campaigning the tour specifically,” 
said Kulick.
The design group doesn’t have 
any data as to how many people 
have visited the site yet, but Kulick 
said that because of links from sev­
eral main pages it is sure to receive 
many visitors. Sites including links 
to the Virtual Tour collectively 
receive about 100,000 hits per 
week.
“One of the goals of Carnegie 
Mellon’s Web initiative focuses on 
engaging and entertaining the 
audience. We want users to return 
to the site again and again,” said 
Kulick. In addition to serious fea­
tures like weekly news stories, the 
Web now has more entertainment- 
focused features, such as virtual 
postcards, screensavers, Tartan 
Triv, a buggy racing game, and a 
live Webcam during Spring
Disaster officials in Citrus, 
Hernando, Hillsborough,
Manatee, and Pinellas counties 
recommended voluntary evacua­
tion of barrier islands.
However, across the state on the 
Atlantic Coast, NASA decided 
Sunday morning to keep the space 
shuttle Discovery on its launch pad 
at Cape Canaveral instead of haul­
ing it into its hangar. Gordon was 
expected to steer clear of the cape. 
Discovery is scheduled to blast off 
October 5 on a space station con­
struction mission.
In addition, the storm was not 
expected to interfere with 
Wednesday’s landing of the shuttle 
Atlantis, said NASA flight directoi 
Wayne Hale.
In the Atlantic, Hurricane 
Florence was downgraded to a 
tropical storm and continued to 
weaken early Sunday. It was 415 
miles south-southwest of 
Newfoundland with sustained 
wind near 65 mph and was expect­
ed to pass near eastern 
Newfoundland late Sunday.
Rip currents associated with 
Florence were blamed for at least 
three surf deaths Tuesday in North 
Carolina.
Crime and Incident 
Report
rrsTHE GIFT OF A LIFETIME.
PUBLIC COMPANY LOOKING 
TO PROVIDE CAPITAL & 
MANAGERIAL ASSISTANCE
to young companies or entrepre­
neurs with products or workable 
concepts in the areas of wireless 
communications, internet 
software/hardware, fiberoptic 
technology, or medical 
instrumentation.
Please contact:
Modern Technology 
Corp. fax (718) 469-3292. 
Phone (718) 469-3132/4. 
Email:arthurjay@ mindspring.com
This apoca provided os a public soivlco. ©1B92, American Hoart Association
9/10/00 CRIMINAL MIS­
CHIEF, 12:59 am — Campus 
Police was dispatched to 
Hamerschlag House for a report 
of a water leak in the study room. 
Upon arrival, officers discovered 
water dripping steadily from the 
ceiling onto the ground. A check 
of the rooms above found that an 
outside water hose had been run 
into one of the rooms and turned 
on for a steady flow of water. No 
personal belongings were dam­
aged and CPS was dispatched for 
cleanup.
9/10/00 MEDICAL, 4:04
pm — Carnegie Mellon EMS and 
Campus Police responded to 
Mudge House for a student who 
was playing basketball and 
injured himself when he banged 
into the garbage dumpster in close 
proximity to the basketball hoop. 
The student was transported to 
Shadyside Hospital for evalua­
tion.
9/13/00 THEFT, 7:47 pm —
CMU Police Officers were dis­
patched to a campus parking area 
to address a report of someone 
breaking into a vehicle. A CMU 
student whose car was parked in 
the lot had returned to find the 
passenger side door tampered 
with and the inside of the car 
invaded. The actors collapsed the 
back seat, gaining entry to the 
trunk as well. About $2 in change 
was taken.
9/15/00 CRIMINAL MIS­
CHIEF, 1:42 am — Officers 
were dispatched to a campus 
parking area for a Criminal 
Mischief report. Upon arrival, 
officers were shown a vehicle 
which had been damaged by two 
large landscaping stones from a 
large pile located by the hedges 
near the incident. The actors 
threw one stone into the rear win­
dow of the vehicle and one into 
the front window, causing damag- | 
ing in both. In addition, there ! 
were scratches on both the hood I 
and the trunk possibly caused by j 
the stones. Although damage was 
done, nothing was taken from the | 
car.
9/15/00 THEFT, 4:34 pm
— A Carnegie Mellon student 
entered the CMU Police Station to j 
report that his bicycle seat was | 
stolen. An officer accompanied | 
the student to the scene where the 
student last saw his black, soft gel, 
covered seat. The student and 
officer also noticed that several' 
other bicycles in the area where 
his bicycle seat was stolen were 
missing seats and tires. The stu­
dent was advised to keep his bike 
inside a residence or storage area 
if he did not feel safe keeping it 
outside.
Making a bequest to the 
American Heart Association 
says something special about 
you. Its a gift of health for 
future generations — an 
unselfish act of caring.
Your gift will fund research 
and educational programs to 
fight cardiovascular diseases. 
And bring others the joy and 
freedom of good health.
To learn more about how 
you can leave a legacy for the 
future, call 1-800-AHA-USA1. 
Do it today.
American Heart frA 
Association.^^
Fighting Hoart Disoasa 
and Stroke
Where it matters most.
As one of the world's leading diversified technology companies, we’re breaking new ground in every­
thing from defense and commercial electronics, and business aviation and special 
mission aircraft. As a Raytheon employee, you'll contribute to the development of exciting, 
revolutionary technology designed to make life better, easier, and safer throughout the world. 
Such as our STARS air traffic control system. And our award-winning NightSight™ technology.
But it all starts with you. Your creativity. Your knowledge and innovation. And enthusiasm 
about the future. In return, we offer exceptional training and professional development oppor­
tunities. A supportive, down-to-earth work environment. And incredible benefits including flexi­
ble schedules designed to respect your quality of life.
So you can still show off all those great qualities of yours outside of work, too.
We have a lot to tell you about Raytheon and the extiting opportunities we have available. 
Plan on visiting our booth at your college career fair. If you are unable to attend the fair, please 
e-mail your resume to: resume@rayjobs.com (ASCII text only; no attachments), or mail to: 
Raytheon Company, Attn: National Staffing Data Center, P.O. Box 660246, MS-201, 
Dallas, TX 75266. U.S. Citizenship may be required. We are an equal opportunity employer.Bringing technology to the edge
Raytheon
Compiled by 
B>,it KipIit 
itp
di>i dojIIC
Several of the crabtrees in front of Doherty Hall were recently cut down when members of the Hunt family com­
plained that they.were blocking the view of the Hunt Library on campus.
Hurricane Gordon Threatens Florida
Opportunities are available for exceptional students with the following majors:
¦ Physics •
• Chemical Engineering
* Aeronautical Engineering * 
» Finance/Accounting 
»Human Resources
• Computer Science
• Computer Engineering
• Electrical Engineering
• Mechanical Engineering
• Math
Industrial and Labor 
Relations
Marketing/Communications
Management
Check out our Website at www.rayjobs.com/campus for further information including a calendar 
of recruiting events. At Raytheon/we strive to be the employer of choice for a diverse workforce by attracting, retaining, and 
recognizing the most talented, resourceful and creative people.
TAMPA, Fla. (AP) — Heavy rain 
fell across wide areas of Florida on 
Sunday as Hurricane Gordon 
charged toward the Gulf Coast 
with 75 mph winds, and residents 
of low-lying coastal areas were 
urged to evacuate.
Seven to 10 inches of rain was 
possible along the path of the 
storm Sunday, a day after Gordon 
deluged Cuba.
Gordon was expected to strike 
land late Sunday near Cedar Key, a 
group of islands about 80 miles 
northwest of Tampa. However, the 
storm’s unpredictability and direc­
tion changes left island officials 
urging • residents of all coastal 
areas in Florida and Alabama to 
closely monitor its progress.
Governor Jeb Bush put emer­
gency response teams on standby 
Saturday, and disaster officials in 
five coastal counties urged volun­
tary evacuation of barrier islands 
and other surrounding areas 
prone to flooding. Coastal areas 
were warned of the possibility of a 
storm surge seven to 10 feet above 
normal tide levels.
“It’s gonna be a nuisance, bring­
ing a lot of rain, possible flooding 
along the Gulf Coast with storm
surge and possible tornadoes,” 
said Chris Robbins, a meteorolo­
gist at the National Hurricane 
Center in Miami.
The center posted tropical storm 
warnings Sunday along Florida’s 
Gulf Coast from Bonita Beach just 
south of Fort Myers to Anna Maria 
Island, near Bradenton, and along 
the Atlantic Coast from Flagler 
Beach north to Brunswick, Ga. A 
hurricane watch was issued for a 
50-mile stretch of the Florida 
Panhandle, from the Ochlockonee 
River west to Indian Pass.
Sunday’s baseball game 
between Oakland and Tampa was 
postponed as a precaution. The Air 
Force and Coast Guard moved 
some airplanes from the Tampa 
area to other airfields.
Robbins, the meteorologist, said 
people shouldn’t panic.
“It is a minimal hurricane,” he 
said. “Of course, I don’t want to 
minimize its importance."
On Sunday morning, Gordon 
was about 155 miles south-south­
west of Cedar Key, and about 115 
miles west-southwest of Tampa. It 
was moving north-northeast at 
about 16 mph and was expected to 
speed up toward the northeast.

---------------------------------------------------

Forum
l8 September 2000THE TARTANPage A8
Housing poorly handled 
fraternity renovations
For the last several years, the build­
ings on the fraternity quad have been 
in dire need of renovation. The most 
recent efforts to address this problem 
came this past summer, when Sigma 
Nu’s and Sigma Phi Epsilon’s houses 
were to be upgraded. But while the 
brothers of these houses expected to 
find a livable home upon returning to 
school, they were instead greeted by 
continued construction and numerous 
complications. The members of these 
fraternities have undeservingly suf­
fered from poor service and manage- 
' ment, as well as disrespect from 
Housing Services and its contractor, 
Rycon Construction.
A string of incidents over the past 
few months points toward incompe­
tence on the part of Housing. The fail­
ure to complete the project by its 
deadline, while somewhat under­
standable due to materials shortages 
and an ambitious schedule, left the 
brothers of these houses in an 
uncomfortable, unsafe, and 
unhealthy living environment. Poor 
ventilation, lack of interior doors, 
and non-functioning toilets are 
among the problems brothers had to 
endure during the first few weeks of 
school. A member of Sig Nu had to 
temporarily move to a hotel due to 
the potential spread of bacteria 
caused by improper ventilation in the 
fraternities. Housing’s decision to fer­
tilize the house’s landscaping with 
manure before the ventilation system 
was properly installed showed its 
poor planning and lack of considera­
tion for the residents. In addition, 
members of Sig Ep have been without 
interior doors since school started, 
which is unsafe and does not allow 
students privacy.
Due to miscommunication among 
Housing, Rycon, Sig Nu, and the mov­
ing company, about five thousand 
dollars worth of property belonging 
to the house and individual brothers 
was misplaced or thrown away. 
During renovations, the students say 
they labeled their possessions and 
requested they be moved out of the 
house. These items included the stu­
dents’ belongings, the fraternity’s 
booth, a meat slicer, and an antique 
bar that is irreplaceable. Though 
Housing has said the fraternity will 
be compensated for some of these 
items through insurance, Sig Nu has 
not heard much back from Housing. 
Even when they do, some of these 
items have sentimental and historic 
value to the house and cannot be 
replaced. Fraternities, by nature, are 
groups that place a great deal of 
pride in tradition and identity and 
Housing does not seem to respect the 
importance of their values.
An example of Housing’s irrever­
ence towards the fraternities’ sense of
pride involves the removal of Sig Nu’s 
insignia, which had been on the house 
for 20 years. Housing’s reason for ask­
ing the house to remove it was 
because it was inconsistent with the 
new standards the department has set 
for fraternity signs. Demonstrating his 
distrust for the house, Director of 
Housing Services Tim Michael 
ordered- a contractor to remove the 
sign from their possession and bring it 
to his office, thinking they had put it 
up against his wishes. Michael’s insis­
tence on taking down Sig Nu’s 
insignia is immature and disrespectful 
to the importance they place on this 
symbol.
Furthermore, it demonstrates the 
implementation of a poor policy to 
begin with. The standardization 
would mandate that each house 
would have one set of similar letters 
and an inlaid crest. Standardization 
of the signs, however, does not 
address the diversity of fraternities 
and their freedom to express them­
selves in the most appropriate way. 
Although the aim of the policy is 
standardization, Housing only 
enforces it after houses have been 
renovated. Therefore the policy will 
create disparity among signage on 
the quad for the foreseeable future.
Furthermore, having the contractor 
take down the insignia is a waste of 
resources. With the current state of 
the fraternities, there are many more 
things that the contractor should have 
been doing besides worrying about a 
fraternity sign.
Additionally, when fraternity lead­
ers pressed Michael on the matter, 
asking why he had taken down the 
sign, he did not offer them a definite 
answer. This type of miscommunica­
tion is unhealthy and does not uphold 
the image of Housing as a depart­
ment which caters to students’ needs.
Delays, communication difficul­
ties, and carelessness on the part of 
Housing have caused strife among 
students — students who should be 
worrying about their schoolwork, 
not where to go to the bathroom. 
Housing needs to remedy the situa­
tion immediately by speeding up the 
renovations in these houses, com­
pensating for the lost property and 
lack of proper living arrangements, 
and moving along the overall devel­
opment of the Fraternity Quad. 
Towards this end, Housing should 
learn from the problems encoun­
tered this year to better prepare for 
future renovations. The students that 
live in Fraternities are like any other 
students who live in Housing 
Services buildings, and pay a fee to 
do so. Therefore, they should be 
treated with equal respect — which 
has not been the case for the past few 
months.
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since ¡906 
EDITORIAL BOARD
ldH HaOdHaTaT, Editor-in-Chief
duTH naseu|, Managing Editor 
daOa dTl||u, News Editor 
CHOldTlsa KOdHZOT, Acting Forum Editor 
CHOldTOPHuO CHUsG, Sports Editor 
JOassa dnl|uy, Arts & Living Editor 
dOlOan GO||aPa||l, Science & Technology Ed. 
BOae GOasTZ, Business Editor 
GOuG sOPl, Entertainment Editor 
JUdTls dUldda, Art Editor 
BOyas KaP|as, Photo Editor 
nlCHau| ZlnnuO, Dossier Design Editor 
|aUOa naOTls, Dossier Co-Literary Editor 
JOduPH TaGUu, Dossier Co-Literary Editor 
JusslPuO |lU, Advertising Manager 
Ba|aJl daOPudHKaO, Copy Manager 
B|aKu usGu|, Personnel Manager
adHa PaTHaK, Business Manager 
|asCu BOOTs, Production Manager 
Kal ZHusG, Systems Manager 
BuTTy Kln, Darkroom Manager 
naTT BOUs, Special Projects Manager 
aduun GUPTa, Webmaster 
|alsu TOTuy, Assistant News Editor 
asey POasCld, Assistant Arts & Living Editor 
BuTH POTu||, Asst. Entertainment Editor 
dHalsa nCGOaTH, Assistant Photo Editor 
daOa HussuBuOGuO, Asst. Production Mgr.
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
uIijtC BoIitp, BCmtic Pi>impou>, B>ipIC, PCi>t, 
Ci''itp>i Ktjgmo, Cm>j'oopmC> ni,, Cm>j' nC''jti, 
Jotiomit PCi>cC, attC Oi,, siomit doCjtwiIp, 
u>jci yicipi
Justin Suissa/Art Editor
U.S. handled Wen Ho Lee decision just fine
0
Damian Olesnycky
This past week, the U.S. Justice 
Department faced intense criticism for 
how it has handled its case against Wen 
Ho Lee, the scientist once thought to be a 
Chinese spy leaking nuclear secrets to 
his native country. On Wednesday, Lee, a 
Taiwanese-born American citizen, 
reached a plea agreement with US attor­
neys in which he pled guilty to one of 59 
felony charges of mishandling nuclear 
secrets, freeing him from the solitary 
confinement that he had endured for 
278 days. Because of his actions, Lee has 
been forced to cooperate with the FBI, 
serve time in a; county prison while 
awaiting trail, and relenquish his citizen­
ship rights for pleading guilty to a felony. 
Following the case’s conclusion, the 
residing Judge James Parker, President 
Clinton, and segments of the American 
public voiced their displeasure over how 
the scientist was treated before and dur­
ing his trial. Both Clinton and Parker 
-expressed concern and regret over Lee 
being dealt with as if he were a threat to 
national security after which he was 
found innocuous enough to be freed out­
right. Meanwhile, factions of the 
American public, especially Asian- 
American activist groups, continued to 
accuse the federal government of using 
Lee as a scapegoat amid concerns about 
China stealing US nuclear technology.
In some people’s eyes, the treatment 
and punishment of Lee in' the months 
leading up to his case might seem exces­
sive for the crime he committed. After
all, no espionage charges were ever 
brought against him. However, the seri­
ous implications involved in this year­
long saga should remain a major cause of 
concern to the U.S. and its citizens. 
Americans do not realize the gravity of 
these troubling events and reports that 
have surfaced in the past year. These 
happenings fall into an eerie chronologi­
cal order.
Lee was fired from the Los Alamos 
National Laboratory in March of 1999 
following an espionage investigation 
spurred by allegations of the lab leaking 
nuclear missile technology to China in 
the 1980s. No evidence indicating that 
Lee was a spy was ever found, but the FBI 
learned that Lee had placed some of the 
U.S. nuclear arsenal’s “crown jewels” on 
an unsecured computer, leaving it sus­
ceptible to hackers. After copying the 
files to the computer, the scientist secret­
ly copied the data from the computer 
onto 10 tapes over some 40 hours. The 
whole process was not part of his job, and 
to this day the tapes are still unaccounted 
for. The tapes are presently a major 
source of concern; Lee claims to have 
destroyed them, but there is no evidence 
that indicates that he did. Therefore, his 
court-ordered cooperation with the FBI 
entails explaining what was on the tapes 
and proving that they were destroyed. In 
May of 1999, a bipartisan committee of 
House Representatives released the “Cox 
Report,” which disclosed the extent of 
Chinese theft and acquisition of 
American nuclear secrets. The report 
revealed that China “had stolen classified 
information on every thermonuclear 
warhead in the U.S. ballistic missile arse­
nal, including the W-88, our most mod­
ern warhead” as well as information
about how to construct the never- 
deployed neutron bomb. The informa­
tion in the report was not based on spec­
ulation; it was based on a package the 
CIA received from somewhere in China 
that was full of U.S. nuclear weapons 
blueprints. U.S. intelligence had discov­
ered a continuous security blunder that 
has spanned over a quarter century and 
in fact continues today.
The extent of stolen knowledge and 
data that the Cox Report reveals is fright­
ening, if not catastrophic. Needless to say, 
weapons capable of global destruction 
should not be in the hands of oppressive 
and unruly governments. People who feel 
that Wen Ho Lee was treated too harshly 
by the Justice Department need to do 
some thinking and realize the colossal 
implications of this case. Lee might not 
have handed the Chinese the most valu­
able secrets on earth, but he knowingly 
made them readily accessible to anyone 
capable of cracking a weak system. Also, 
who knows what he did with the tapes he 
loaded with the classified data? They 
could be anywhere.
The plea agreement accomplishes the 
most important objectives in mitigating 
the- situation. The agreement allows for 
Lee to keep his freedom because his crime 
was not malevolent enough to give him 
anything close to a life sentence. It also 
managed to punish him sufficiently with 
jail time, which he deserved. Its most 
important objective, however, is that it 
attempts to find out the contents and sta­
tus of the tapes, which is a most urgent 
matter.
Damian Olesnycky is a senior IDS major. 
He welcomes all responsible replies to his. 
column.
Mainstream music needs to expand its taste
Daniel Wood
It is exactly 3:15 am. I am listening 
for the first time t6 Radiohead's latest 
LP, KID-A. A dark, moody, heavy blue 
tone melts from my speakers and 
envelops my mind in a state of complete 
shock. It is, to say the least, an over­
whelming sensation of absolute beauty. 
Too bad it will never get the apprecia­
tion it deserves.
The sound of KID-A is so revolution­
ary that it is able to surpass the differ­
ence between the band’s two earlier 
albums, The Bends and OK Computer. So 
far, I have heard a wild free-form jazz 
brass section accompanying a synthe-
healthy diet of meaningless and artisti­
cally devoid commercial-friendly music. 
To the great misfortune of truth in the 
human arts, artistic masterminds in all 
fields of art find themselves over­
whelmed by the outrageous corporate 
business management pouring millions 
of dollars into the “selling out” of truth.
Which all brings me back to distant 
memories of the 1998 Grammys. 
Radiohead was up with a nomination, 
for album of the year after having 
released their epic opus to modern soci­
ety, OK Computer. This album, deemed 
the “‘90s Dark Side of the Moonwas 
competing with the likes of Paul 
McCartney (what was he thinking with 
Wings?), Bob Dylan, Paula Cole (...ugh, 
“shiver”), and some other puppet one- 
hit-wonder pop acts. VH1 decided to 
run a special on the show highlighting
...a round of applause to all the record compa­
nies for shoving absolute bile down our 
throats...
sizer, drums, and a wild, crazed mix­
ture of electronic sounds flawlessly 
seamed together. Mainstream music 
worships the Backstreet Boys; find that 
in one of their songs. Never before has a 
band redefined itself and pushed the 
musical boundaries higher and wider 
with each passing record since the 
Beatles in their heyday.
It is therefore painful to realize that 
the album will remain unnoticed by a 
majority of people already hooked on a
each award category and the artists 
running for highly coveted grammy 
awards. Extensive coverage was paid to 
Paula Cole (at the time a staple of 
VH1), Dylan, McCartney, and the oth­
ers. After sitting through each barely 
watch-able close-up, I became curious 
to see the station’s take on Radiohead. 
Sure enough, a meager minute of the 
“Karma Police” video was played; it was 
followed by the required comment on 
the group on behalf of the show’s host,
a dimwitted pretty body suffocating 
from the several layers of make-up 
applied to his precious face. Let us 
name him Preciouss, then (the extra ‘s’ 
adds some pizzazz to.the name). Our 
beloved Preciouss used whatever was 
left of wit in his body to come out with 
a wonderful one liner, “That sure is one 
of the ‘weirder’ bands up for a 
Grammy.”
Yay Preciouss! Congratulations for 
your narrow-minded outlook on music, 
and the failure to recognize what has 
now become the most influential and 
important album of the ‘90s! Hooray! 
And while we are at it, a round of 
applause to all the record companies for 
shoving absolute bile down our throats 
each year and making a profit in the 
process!
Ah, I digress, so I am thus left to con­
template, in silence, the fate of the
2001 Grammy awards. I have absolutely 
no doubt that KID-A will inevitably 
change and influence the way future 
musicians think with regards to the 
implementation of their art. 
Unfortunately, in the real world, artistic 
relevance, impact, and importance have 
become meaningless. Eager to attract as 
wide an audience as possible, the 
Grammys will most certainly reward 
the most profitable acts of 2000 under 
the guise of their “musical integrity,” 
while we are left with an ambitious, 
ground-breaking gem of a record to be 
found amidst the piles and piles of 
garbage.
Daniel Wood is a junior English major. 
He welcomes all responsible replies to his 
article.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN • SEPTEMBER 18, 2000
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since igo6
duslOO dTaPP 
Emily Landes, Remington Svarcas
dTaPPTOlTuOd 
Megan Adriance, Sara Amodio, Neil Babra, 
Thaddeus Billman, Grant Catton, Cliff Chien, 
Krissy Choi, Rob Cullen, Cam Crews, Donny 
Debarr, Elizabeth Dodson, Derek Dreyer, Frank J. 
Fleming, Colt Foutz, Heather Frantz, Emily 
Gensheimer, LaRita Hamilton, Rosie Jones, Rachel 
Kingery, Cynthia Kos, Eunice Liew, Katie Kowall, 
Matthew Lanken, Erin Lucas, Sean Mintus, 
Damian Olesnycky, Peter Patterson, Jennifer 
Petrini, Srinivas Pullela, Anwesha Rakshit, 
Jennifer Resick, Gail Ronen, Lynn Tao, Guido 
Zarrella
aOT
Matthew Blum, Jamie Divine, Adam Grossi, 
Reagan Heller, Alissa Taylor
COnlCd
Martin Hock, James Kenney 
PHOTO
Katie Aerni, Anthony D’Auria, Matthew Lanken, 
Nuri Miller, Michael Raisman, Amy Solana, 
Matthew Trentacoste
eaOKOOOn 
Stephanie Chow, Ko Nakatsu, Peter Wang, Laura 
Wetzel
POOeUCTlOs 
Michael Castellana, Serena Lam
COPy
Stacey Becker, Joyce Boss, Kristin Lala, Emma 
Rehm, Brian Yeung, Julie Watt
JUslOO dTaPP 
Abhyudaya Agrawal, David Anderson, Erica 
Barnes, Nicholas Bonaddio, Yang Cai, Joseph 
Carrier, Eve Chen, Michael Cook, Jeff Cullers, 
John Davin, Ellie Delancey, Dave del Rosario, 
Shion Deysarkar, Debra Halpern, Ryan Hamilton, 
Bill Jerome, Douglas Jones Jr, Lirona Katzir, Ann 
Lewis, Tim Lo, Bhumika Muchhala, Andre 
Niederberger, Vijay Palaparty, Meredith Powers, 
Jodi Poniewaz, Karthik Ramachandran, Christian 
Reed, Adam Retchless, Domenic Senger-Schenck, 
Jason Slater, Vivek Sridharan, Marissa Staller, 
Adam Steele, Sabrina Small, Erin Szeto, Huiya Xu, 
Sheila Wang, Daniel Wood, Douglas Yung
The Tartan is the student newspaper of 
Carnegie Mellon University. It is a weekly 
newspaper published by students during 
the fall ana spring semesters, at no cost 
to members of the University community. 
It is printed by Western Pennsylvania 
Printing, Inc. Subscriptions are available 
for the semester or academic year. The 
editorials appearing at the beginning of 
the opinion section are the official opin­
ion of The Tartan editorial board. Columns 
and political cartoons are the opinions of 
individual creators. The Tartan reserves 
the right to reject or condense any column 
or political cartoon. Letters to the Editor 
are opinions of authors who are usually, 
but not necessarily, members of the 
University community. A letter intended 
for publication must be signed and 
include the writer's address and phone 
number for verification. Names may be 
withheld upon request. The Tartan 
requests that letters be no longer than 
350 words. The Tartan reserves the right 
to condense or reject any letter. Letters to 
the Editor must be submitted by 5 pm the 
Thursday before publication. Copyright © 
2000 by The Tartan. The Tartan editorial 
board reserves the right to withhold from 
publication anv copy it deems unfit for 
publication. Office: University Center 
Room 314. Phone: 412/268-2111.
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box
17/Carnegie Mellon University/Pittsburgh, 
PA 15213-3890.
Email: tartan@andrew.cmu.edu 
Funded in part by your Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress
ISSN#:0890-J107. The ilH
Tartan is a member of the 
Associated Press. ¦
Commercialism on campus thrives despite lack of vendors
Sean Mintus
I have noticed a profound difference 
between the first few weeks of this, my 
; sophomore year, and the beginning of last 
year. Perhaps there are just too many idio­
syncrasies of this University to which I’ve 
simply become accustomed and therefore 
«less inclined to cry out in horror in reac­
tion to.
I no longer wonder why the clusters 
smell like the inside of my grandfather’s 
shoes. It doesn’t surprise me to see sever­
al students walking around campus 
dressed like Matrix characters. And 
believe it or not, I no longer break down 
and sob when I stumble past a packed
• library at 2:30 on a Saturday night.
I guess I’ve been assimilated. I am a 
<CMU student. There is just no way around 
^t. Don’t I get a cell phone and a wireless 
,card now? Or do I have to learn C+ +
- first?
: But, seriously, there is a severe contrast 
between the amount of commercialism on 
campus this fall as opposed to last year. 
Hasn’t anyone else noticed it? I miss it! 
J’ve only seen about three credit card 
stands, which has been disappointing. At 
least the crackhead tenants of these tents 
^throwing stacks of forms at me while dan­
gling free T-shirts with annoying slogans 
on them made me feel all fuzzy and nos­
talgic inside. The Sprint PCS tent was a 
'nice addition last week, but I know it 
won’t last. What happened to the 
swindlers, the cheats, the sneaky swine 
devoted to robbing college students of 
what little wealth they do have? I miss the
peddlers, the salesmen, the con artists 
who could actually convince someone 
who got a 1500 on their SATs that a 42 
percent interest rate isn’t really that bad. 
Where is my football phone? Why can’t I 
have one of those little basketball hoops 
with the suction cups anymore?
Now, from what I understand, this mer­
cantile void is a direct result of some stu­
dents last year taking offense to the 
amount of “selling out” our university 
seemed to be doing. I don’t really remem­
ber any of this. I was too busy getting free 
T-shirts in exchange for signing “Jour 
Hadique” up for his new Discover card. At 
any rate, now that I know about this slan­
der of sales pitches, I am royally pissed.
So to the leftist fascist commie who 
complained about the commercialism on 
campus, you had better get your act 
together and realize that you’re in 
America. For heaven’s sake, we live in the 
greatest capitalist society ever to grace 
the planet. Don’t you remember that 
greed is good? We invented it. We strive 
every day to top the level of greediness 
achieved previously. You were all alive in 
the ‘80s.
Just to prove to all of you anti-commer- 
cialistic folk on campus that money and 
power and the ramming of their impor­
tance down America’s collective throat is 
an inescapable element of our society, I 
decided to go through a typical morning 
at CMU while looking as carefully as pos­
sible for evidence of commercial presence 
in hopes that you would all come to real­
ize that we’re not getting away from com­
mercialism, so 'we might as well embrace 
it. I trust that this stupid, futile, and 
essentially useless gesture on my part will 
prove to you that no matter how hard you 
try to remain economically balanced and
free of the influence of “the man,” you are 
an indelible part of the avaricious society 
which you so despise. Thus, here it is, a 
typical morning, viewed through the eyes 
of one who is first and foremost “capitalis­
tically aware.”
My slumber, filled with beautiful 
dreams of CORONA and fíne Latin ladies 
sporting BANANA REPUBLIC bikinis, was 
vanquished by the buzzing of my PANA­
SONIC alarm clock. I quickly threw off my 
TARGET sheets and blanket, lifted my 
weary body off of the’SERTA mattress,
grabbed an empty can of PEPSI, and 
threw it at the disturbance.
I then proceeded to climb down out of 
my PIER 1 IMPORTS loft, and, being a 
CMU student, immediately checked my 
email on my DELL computer, aided by the 
glare of a GE light bulb secured within a 
LASKO desktop lamp (So help me, if any 
of you idiotic tools are scoffing at my com­
puter brand right now, know that I pray 
every night to my own personal God that 
you choke on your retainer and overdose 
on CLEARASIL).
After taking a few TYLENOL to relieve 
the headache caused by the previous 
night’s encounter with NATURAL LIGHT, 
I picked up my WAL-MART shower caddy, 
and went into the bathroom. I then 
shaved with my GILLETTE MACH III 
razor, brushed my teeth with a REACH 
toothbrush and COLGATE toothpaste, 
and got into the POWERS SA shower, 
where I washed my hair with SUAVE
shampoo, my face with JOHNSON and 
JOHNSON lather, and my body with 
IRISH SPRING soap. I then put my 
clothes on, which included a pair of LEE 
jeans, a NIKE shirt and some BIRKEN- 
STOCK sandals.
Upon grabbing my RAY-BAN sunglass­
es and a couple of UNI-BALL pens, 
which I promptly loaded into my LL 
BEAN backpack, I made for the door, 
and proceeded to Entropy, where I 
bought a LENDER’S bagel and some 
TURNER’S iced tea before heading to
class. On the way, I lit a CAMEL cigarette 
with a BIC lighter. As I approached 
Baker Hall, I extinguished my cigarette 
after carefully dodging the CAT con­
struction equipment being used to do 
God knows what to the CFA building. I 
ran inside to the GIANT EAGLE auditori­
um. However, upon glancing at my 
DAKOTA watch,. I realized that I was late 
for class, so I swore many times and 
tried to sneak in without the teacher 
seeing me, only to trip over a BLACK 
AND DECKER extension cord, causing a 
scene and generally embarrassing the 
hell out of myself.
Nope, no COMMERCIALISM on this 
campus.
SEAN Mintus is a SOPHOMORE pro­
fessional AND creative writing major. He 
needs TO learn how to CONTROL his 
pressing DESIRE to CAPITALIZE words 
UNNECESSARILY.
I’ve only seen about three credit card stands, 
which has been disappointing.
A PERSON’S OPINION
Compiled by Peter Wang 
Photos by Peter Wang
Heather Leifeste
Junior
Art/Chemical Engineering
“Nope, but I had a social all-nighter 
once.”
Leslie Good
Sophomore
Managerial Economics
“No, but I do wake up at 3am. to fin­
ish my homework.”
Mark Yin
Junior
Computer Science 
“You can do it!”
Diana Taykhman
Sophomore
Physics
“No way, I’d look like death in the 
morning!”
Fight liberalism, help Carnegie Mellon University, bear arms
Ci>tCgjC nCIIot j' ficou' fo> jo' pjffjcuIo cIi''C' itp ci''jvC icouto' of 
mocCwo>;. To 'CC mow 'oupCto' i>C pCiIjtg, wC i';Cp omC foIIowjtg quC'ojot:
Have you had to pull an all-nighter yet?
Miya Muraki
Junior
Architecture
“Yeah, it’s not out of the ordinary for 
me.”
Frank J. Fleming
When did Americans become such a 
bunch of pansies? We used to be a 
bunch of rugged individualists who had 
no need for some large federal govern­
ment to hold our hands all the way. No, 
all we needed was our freedom and a 
rifle to sling over our shoulders and 
we’d march out into the savage wilder­
ness where bears, rattlesnakes, and the 
indigenous people of America all want­
ed to kill us (and for some pretty good 
reasons).
Now look at us. We’re a bunch of 
pathetic dependents who would have 
as much longevity in the wilderness as 
a panicked, flaming monkey in an oil 
1 refinery. Also, many people nowadays 
wouldn’t even get near a gun for some 
-irrational fear that it might jump up 
and bite them or something. The once 
i proud call of “Give me freedom or give 
; me death” has been replaced with 
i “Give me freedom... unless I might get 
: hurt.”
Which brings me to my main point.
Why can’t I have a gun on campus? I 
mean, I’ll promise to only use it against 
-bad people. What do you want from 
me? I’m a law-abiding citizen who 
knows proper gun safety and usage and 
right from wrong, so why, when I am 
given more power, am I considered a 
threat instead of an asset?
It’s not like rules against honest citizens 
keep criminals from using weapons, since 
-usually someone intent on committing 
i murder is not going to think twice about 
taking that extra step and breaking gun
possession laws as well. So, the only rea­
son is to keep the honest citizens from 
possessing a weapon. Why? Because of 
liberals. As I see it, liberals care for people
— not as one cares for their fellow man — 
but more like how one might care for 
goldfish, believing them to be stupid, irra­
tional things that would die if not for the 
liberal’s benevolence. Liberals think we’re 
all basically killers and suicidals sans 
firearms, which 
means they need to 
keep us from pos­
sessing weapons so 
we won’t stupidly 
hurt each other.
Instead, the liberal 
thinks we should 
leave our individ­
ual and personal 
defense to our God­
like government, 
who will protect 
our lives as it 
deems necessary 
and within budget 
constraints. Yet, 
having given up 
their ability to 
defend themselves, 
a right so inherent 
that every other 
animal on God’s 
green earth exer­
cises it to the best 
of its abilities, lib­
erals would still 
consider himselves 
free. For liberals 
are dumb.
Now, let me insert a brief history of the 
firearm. Before the firearm, man walked 
in fear of nature’s creatures, who thought 
little of man and his ability to make bowls
out of clay. But then, one man invented 
the gun — I believe his name was Bob — 
and, the next time Bob ran into a bear, he 
kicked its ass. From then on, all animals 
knew that man was the superior species 
and then relegated themselves to per­
forming in circuses for our amusement. 
Soon after, a woman came upon a gun — 
we’ll call her Moesha — and accom­
plished what thousands of years of femi­
nism couldn’t: physical equality of the 
sexes. For a gun fired by Moesha was just 
as deadly as a gun fired by a man or a 
chimpanzee (don’t give guns to chimps).
Now everyone embraced this new tech­
nology and the equality it brought to all 
mankind, but then the evil liberals arose 
in their palace of destruction and chal­
lenged the gun owners. And there was 
much kung fu fighting. Through the use 
of magic confuse rays, the liberals gained 
the upper hand. This concludes the histo­
ry of the gun thus far as I have pieced 
together from my history education in 
public school.
We shouldn’t give 
up on guns, though. 
What I propose is 
that, instead of having 
all these fancy elec­
tronic locks on cam­
pus, we issue each 
new student a hand­
gun. What a polite 
campus we’ll soon 
have, and, instead of 
those “Gun Free 
Zone” signs that are 
so inviting to preda­
tors, we could post 
more intimidating 
ones that say, “This 
Campus Packs Heat.” 
Sure, this new policy 
might cause some 
nationwide controver­
sy from all the anti­
gun bigots out there, 
but then CMU might 
finally get some more 
name recognition. 
And, in the end, is 
there any cause more 
worthy than that?
Frank J. Fleming is a senior ECE major 
who knows you’d listen to him if he had a 
gun.
Justin Suissa/Art Editor

---------------------------------------------------

OUTLEToaftET
Delivering Great Taste
1 FREE Garlic Dipping Sauce!
with any pizza
www.pizzaoutCet.com

---------------------------------------------------

Sports
l8 September 2000THE TARTANPage Bl
Baseball 
is back in 
business
A View From The Bleachers
E, nioo B>ut
As the final few weeks of the reg­
ular season wind down, division 
and wild card races are heating up 
more than ever. With that in mind,
I thought I’d devote this week’s col­
umn to evaluating some of the' 
biggest trade-deadline deals made 
this year. All of these trades were 
made to put a contending team 
over the top and into the playoffs, 
so let’s see how all those general 
managers did.
Of course, player movement was 
not restricted to the days immedi­
ately preceding the trade deadline, 
and there were a few big-name 
deals earlier in the year, too. One of 
the biggest of these trades was the 
Indians-Yankees swap of outfield­
ers at the end of June that sent 
David Justice to New York and 
Ricky Ledee to Cleveland.
For about a month, this looked 
like a one-sided deal. Justice was 
continuing the career season he 
had begun with Cleveland, while 
Ledee was hanging a Yankees jersey 
in his new locker because he could­
n’t get over the fact that he had 
been traded.
Many people 
were suprised the 
Indians would part 
with Sexson, but 
the pitching help 
has certiainly ben- 
efitted Cleveland’s 
wild card hopes.
At the deadline, however, 
Cleveland turned the trade around 
by sending Ledee on to the Rangers 
for first baseman David Segui.
In Segui, the Indians now have a 
gold-glove caliber player at all four 
infield positions as well as offensive 
numbers quite comparable to 
1 Justice.
All in all, both the Yankees and 
Indians got an offensive boost that 
should come in handy during the 
playoff push. As for the Rangers, 
they took on a project player with a 
large upside, perhaps signaling the 
beginning of a rebuilding period for 
a suddenly struggling team.
The Yankees also made another 
trade prior to the deadline that 
should prove to have much more 
impact on their chances of reaching 
the World Series.
On July 12, New York acquired 
Cincinnati ace starter Denny 
Neagle and a minor league out­
fielder for four minor leaguers. This 
one may have been the steal of the 
season. At the time of the trade, the 
Reds were only a few games behind 
St. Louisj in the NL Central, yet 
apparently decided they couldn’t 
catch up and traded away their ace.
The Yankees, meanwhile, added 
a fifth all-star starter to go in the 
rotation with Roger Clemens, 
Orlando Hernandez, Andy Pettite, 
and DaVid Cone. On the post-sea- 
son roster, which usually only fea­
tures four starters, Neagle will like­
ly replace Cone, who has had a dis­
appointing season to say the least, : 
filling the one gap the defending, 
champs have shown this season.
Neagle may only be 7-4 with 4 
4.56 ERA for New York, but once h£ 
gets to know American League hit­
ters, he’ll show just how uneven 
this trade was.
The Indians also kept busy at the 
deadline with two big deals. First, 
in a deal designed to shore up a bat­
tered pitching staff, they sent first 
baseman/outfielder Richie Sexson; 
and pitchers Kane Davis and Paul 
Rigdon to Milwaukee for pitchers 
Steve Woodward, Jason Bere, and 
Bob Wickman.
Many people were surprised the 
Indians would part with a player 
with as much potential as Sexson, 
and while he is hitting .307 with 13 
home runs and 39 RBIs in just 44 
games for the Brewers, the pitching 
help has certainly benefitted 
Cleveland’s wild card hopes.
dCC n|B, pigC B2
Surging women’s soccer team outshoots Grove City
E, Cm>j'oopmC> CmutgSports Editor
Rain enveloped the atmosphere in Gesling 
Stadium, and water squirted out from the 
artificial turf as several pairs of legs aggres­
sively pursued a slick soccer ball to the side­
line. Fans, almost twenty-five of them, hud­
dled under umbrellas in the bleachers and 
below the branches of nearby trees to shield 
themselves from the downpour. The weath­
er did not, however, deter the women’s soc­
cer team and its coaches, Heather Kendra, 
Deb Yost, and Judy Deer, from standing 
drenched before their bench, cheering 
heartily at the game currently in progress.
The Tartans were playing Grove City in 
their first home game of the season, and 
were in control of the matchup for its entire
duration. The final score of 1-0 didn’t tell 
the whole story — the Tartans were able to 
get off 23 shots against the Grove City . 
defenders and were constantly pressing for 
more, while the Grove City offense only 
managed one shot, which Tartan goalkeeper
Merry .McConnochie both took four shots. 
McConnochie also had the game’s lone 
assist.
“We dominated the whole game,” said 
McConnochie. “It was pretty clear we were 
the better team, but we had a lot. of problems
“We’re playing the best soccer we’ve played since I 
came in here three years ago.”— Women’s soccer head 
coach Heather Kendra
Maya Nigrosh saved easily.
Sophomore Melissa McMorrow routinely 
made her away around defenders and got off 
five shots, and first-years Allison Styer and
with the accuracy of our shooting... we did­
n’t get many goals, there were, a lot of shots 
going wide.”
Surprisingly, the game was notched at 0-0
until 4:51 left in the game — in spite of their 
dominance, the Tartans were having diffi­
culty capitalizing on opportunities. Finally 
at the five-minute mark, after several shots 
had barely missed, McConnochie beat a cou­
ple defenders up the sideline with the ball 
and threaded a pass to first-year Lauren 
Tayior in the middle charging toward the 
goal. McConnochie collected the assist as 
Taylor beat the Grove City keeper for the 
first and only goal of the game. Several min­
utes later, the Tartans celebrated their sec­
ond victory of the year and shook hands 
with the Grove City players, just as the.rain 
finally dwindled to nothing.
, The Grove City game showed what this 
year’s women’s soccer team is about; the 
women are playing hard, gradually getting 
better, but still have not yet reached the 
dCC dOCCuO, pigC B5
Tartans suffer 27-16 loss to Bisons in home opener
E, B>ip G>itozBusiness Editor
CMU rolled over its first two 
opponents of the season: the 
Denison Big Red and the 
Spartans of Case Western.
Oddly enough, it took a female 
name to defeat a squad of an 
extremely athletic CMU squad.
The Bethany College Bison 
(3-0) defeated the Tartans (2- 
1, 1-0 UAA) 27-16 in CMU’s 
first home game of the season 
this past Saturday in front of a 
crowd of nearly 2,440 individ­
uals.
While CMU has dominated 
the game in the trenches, the 
Tartans were unable to match 
the physical offensive and 
defensive lines of Bethany.
CMU’s front three defensive 
linemen were outweighed by 
the O-line of Bethany on aver­
age by 50 pounds. Ergo,
Bethany was able to gain 
almost 300 yards on the 
ground — a feat usually 
reserved for the CMU rushing 
attack.
Local products Brandon 
Isbell and Will Anderson each 
rushed for over 100 yards for 
the Bison. Anderson carried 
the ball a mere 20 times for
yards for two touchdowns (i' nj;C nc|iugmIjt j' 'ooppCp 'mo>o of omC BComit, 30 ,i>p IjtC ifoC> >CcCjvjtg it u>jc ZjcpfC> pi''. nc|uigmIjt itp ZjcpfC> wC>C utiEIC oo cottCco ot omC 
well i' one 11 yard TD >CcCp-pCCp 'o>j;C, i pi'' wmjcm mi' p>ovCt fioiI oo CnU'' fj>'o owo oppotCto'. nc|iugmIjt ciugmo fou> pi''C' fo> 31 ,i>p', 
tion). Isbell, the sophomore
catches of the season (2-17) and 
Matt Strohl and Matta Saneholtz 
each had one catch apiece for sub­
stantial gains.
While CMU’s defense did allow 
over 400 yards of total offense, the 
squad did see action without star 
linebacker Nick Zitelli, who missed 
game time with an injury.
Zitelli did manage to lead the 
teamin tackles with 11, but it was 
not enough to stop the vaunted 
Bethany rushing attack.
CMU was unable to gain access 
to Bethany’s Green. However,
Frank Adam was able to make the 
game’s lone interception (accom­
panied by a 36 yard return).
The Bethany D did break 
through the CMU line three times 
to prevent Zimpfer from making 
effective use of the bootleg.
Wliile Carnegie Mellon could 
muster only one more scoring 
drive, a time consuming, 17 play,
70 yard, series), the team could 
not prevent , the Bethany offense 
from tallying a fourth quarter 
knockout TD.
back from Monessen, PA ran the 
ball 20 times as well, compiling 
129 yards (one receiving TD).
The game lacked a true turning 
point in the contest. While Bethany 
did take their opening drive of the 
2nd half for six points to extend 
their lead to 11 points, the Bison 
were able to phsycially dominate 
the tone of the game.
CMU put points on the board off 
the leg of first-year Mike Palmer. 
Unable to punch it into the end 
zone, the Tartan O had to settle for 
a 21 yard field goal late in the first 
quarter.
On the ensuing drive, the Bison 
moved the ball 65 yards to pay dirt, 
will Anderson caught an 11 yard 
pass from junior QB Justin Green 
to give Bethany the lead, 7-3. 
Green finished the evening with a 
stellar 12 of 14 for 117 yards and 
one interception:
. CMU retook the lead after a 6 
¦play, 43 yard drive on the bread 
. and butter goal line offense: Adam 
' Urbanczyk. Urbanczyk has ham­
mered the nail in the goal line cof­
fin numerous times this year. He 
did so twice yesterday from one 
yard out.
Once again, Bethany retook 
momentum on the next series. Will 
Anderson broke loose for a 30 yard 
csamper to put Bethany on top 
14-10 going into halftime.
While CMU piled on over 450 
yards against Case two Saturdays 
ago, the ground attack could oonly 
muster 127 yards. Andrew Garrod 
carried 8 times for 37 yards. 
Ricardo Clarke moved forward 
nine times, but for a mere 17 yards.
Fullback Adam Urbanczyk 
smashed ahead seven times for 12 
yards, while associate Josh 
Mugford carried four times for 11 
yards.
Eric Zimpfer, who carried the 
ball nine times; for^ 21 yards on 
CMU’s bootleg.plays, passed effec­
tively with ninecompletions, out of 
18 pass attempts for 124 yards. 
Unlike past weeks, Zimpfer spread , 
the receptions among hisreceivers. 
Tight end. Brian. Vest saw his first
Who’s next
Alfred University (2-1) v. CMU (2-1,1-0 UAA) (Saturday, 1:30 pm, 
at Alfred. WRCT 88.3 fm)
Last meeting: 1999, CMU 31, Alfred 7
The skinny: Alfred lacks a breakout unit that can truly alter the out­
come of the game. However, their ground game must be able to match that 
of CMU’s to compete. Dension was able to stay competitive through the ak­
in week one versus CMU.
Watch for: Drew Garrod has steadily seen more playing time as 
the season has progressed, garrod should see substantial playing time 
against the Saxons. CMU will also need defensive leader Nick Zitelli 
healthy for a young defensive unit to recover from this past week’s 
loss.
Junior tailback George Eason (Oswego/Oswego) led the AU 
ground attack with 164 yards on 17 carries and a pair of touchdowns, 
while sophomore tailback Jesse Raynor (Weedsport/Weedsport) 
added 109 yards on 18 carries and a TD in their season opening rout 
of St. John Fisher, 48-14.
The result: It is doubtful that the Saxons, a squad that had difficult­
ly securing a victory against perennial loser St. Lawrence (17 straight 
losses) last week will be able to defeat the Tartans. Of course, CMU 
needs to get back on track ( to use a fine cliche).
Administration
Intramural Director: Mike Mastroianni, x8- 
2214 or mma8+
Assistant Director: Mike Grzywinski, x8- 
2214 or immike+
Secretary: Amy Kiryk, X8-2053 or kiryk+ 
Intramural Board President: Mike
Edwards, x2-2993
Intramural Vice President: Ryan Jackson 
Women’s President: Amy Tsao
Important Dates
Wednesday, September 20 — IM Board 
Meeting, Skibo Gym Conference Room 
12:15 pm.
Sunday, September 24 — IM Bowling 
begins at the PAA in Oakland.
Monday, September 25 — IM Water Polo 
begins at the UC Pool.
Tuesday, October 3 — IM Cross Country... 
Meet 4:30 pm Flagstaff Hill Schenley Park.. 
Sunday, October 8.— Intramural Golf 
Tournament at Schenley Park Golf Course.
Sports Upcoming
Flag Football — Games are now being 
played. Schedules are available in the IM 
Office. The games are played Monday 
through Thursday evenings and Sunday 
afternoons on the IM and Stadium fields.
Tennis — Matches consist of two singles 
and one doubles. Matches are under way 
and are played Monday through Thursday 
evenings. Please remember in the event of 
a rain out, both teams must contact the IM 
Office about rescheduling.
Co-Rec Volleyball — Teams are made up of 
three men and three women. Games are 
played at the UC Gym Monday through 
Thursday evenings.
Bowling — The IM Bowling season will get 
rolling on Sunday Sept. 24 at the PAA lanes 
in Oakland. Teams are reminded to report
.scores to the IM Office by Tuesday at noon.
Water Polo — IM Water Polo will begin on 
Monday, September 25 at the UC Pool. 
Games are played Monday and Wednesday 
evenings starting at 9 pm. No warming up 
while people are participating in recre­
ational swim.
Cross Country — The 2000 IM Cross 
Country meet will be held Tuesday, 
October 3 at 4:30 pm. The 1.9 mile race 
will begin on Flagstaff Hill across from the 
Porter Hall entrance.
Golf— The 2000 Intramural Golf tourna­
ment will be held Sunday, October 8 at the 
Schenley Park Course. Green fees are $10 
and club rental is $6. Players can tee off 
anytime after 7 am. All students must show 
CMU ID.
Other IM News
The Board meetings will be held every 
other Wednesday at 12:15 pm in the Gym 
Conference Room. The IM Board makes 
many of the decisions on issues involving
Intramurals. All interested organizations 
can send a representative to this meeting.
BCS Football Rankings
Majors
1. Peroli’s All Stars
2. Delt Scrubs A
3. Fruity Guys
Intermediate
1. Kappa Sigma
2. Animal Thugs
3. PKT Emeralds
Minors
1. Nuggets
2. P Clams
3. SASA
4. NROTC
Women
1. Tartan Hoopers B
2. Thugged Out Entertainment
3. Tartan Hoopers A
All email rosters must be submitted 24 hours 
prior to the deadline.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN « SEPTEMBER 18. 2000
classified
Training, marketing, website. Cd/DVD/lntemet Excellent portfolio. Turnkey-offices, workstations, 
skilled staff. Earn profits immediately! Relocatable! $325,000 Prospectus, (412) 734-8340 before 9-26- 00.
WANT CASH? Sign-up your classmates for cool internet sites, and receive a minimum of SI .00 per 
person! There's no easier way to make money! Log onto TeamMagma.com or call 1 -877-866-2462
We have part time positions available in our hotel 
gift shops located in these downtown Pittsburgh 
hotels: Westin William Penn, Doubletree, Marriott, 
and the Hilton. These positions include various 
schedules which are compatible with most student's class schedules. We offer a competitive salary, pleas­
ant working environment and a generous employee discount. If interested call: 412-782-3266 or fax information to 412-782-3268 (fax)
SPRING BREAK 2001
Hiring On-Campus Reps SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH, GO FREE !!!
Student Travel Services America's SI Student Tour Operator
Jamaica, Mexico, Bahamas, Europe, Florida 1-800- 
648-4849
www.gospringbreak.com
Classified Rates
1-20 words......$10.00/wk
21-50 words......$12.00/wk
51-100 words....$15.00/wk
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Box 17 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
•Classifieds must be paid in cash 
or check before first run date 
•On-campus departments and 
organizations may pay by journal 
transfer
•Due by 5 pm the Thursday 
.before publication
^dx PPP
E nter rtai 
rr/wy/noRea
THE TARTAN 
268-2111
CALCULUS 
HOMEWORK 
DRIVING YOU 
CRAZY?
Your student loan is nothing to take lightly. When you skip payments or default on your
loan, you risk your chance for credit cards, car loans, and mortgages. nTTT? A A
So don't play around; if repayment gets to he too much, PHEAA can help. 1/7/t/l/l
jhitlSIM or call 1.800.328.0355Learn more atCreating Access to Education
Sports ShortsCross Country meet at IUP
On Saturday, September 16, 
the Indiana University of 
Pennsylvania Invitational Cross 
Country meet was held in 
Indiana, Pa.
Schools such as Slippery Rock, 
Baldwin Wallace, and Indiana 
University were present at the 
meet, as well as Carnegie Mellon.
The Carnegie Mellon men, 
competing in the eight-kilometer 
race, finished in third place 
behind Slippery Rock (25 points) 
and Baldwin Wallace (37 points) 
with 75 points.
The women’s team had 83 
points, and finished in fourth 
behind Baldwin Wallace (25 
points), Indiana University of 
Pennsylvania (57 points), and 
Slippery Rock (73 points).
The top five finishers for the 
men’s and women’s teams were: 
Men
7. Adam Wierman, 28:06 
9. Mike Rossi, 28:13
18. Pat Fisher, 28:48
20. Alex Weiss, 28:58
21. John Hursh, 29:03
Women
12. Katie Aerni, 24:08 
15. Katie Janes, 24:28 
17. Giti Farudi, 24:37 
21. Amy Graveline, 25:03 
37. Sonni Abatta, 26:42
The cross country teams’ next 
meets will be the Duquesne 
University Invitational, which 
will be held two Saturdays from 
now, September 30.
CWRU/JCU volleyball meet
The women’s volleyball team 
competed in the Case Western 
Reserve/John Carroll tourna­
ment on Friday and Saturday, 
September 15 and 16.
Carnegie Mellon competed 
against Ithaca College, John 
Carroll University, Allegheny 
College, and Alma College.
In the preliminary rounds on 
Friday, the Tartans lost their first
match to Ithaca College, 3-1. 
The individual game scores were 
8-15,15-9, 4-15,10-15.
Carnegie Mellon bounced back 
against John Carroll, defeating 
them 3-1. The games were: 
7-15,15-3,15-10,15-11.
Then, the Tartans came on 
strong and beat an Allegheny 
team that had lost its other two 
matches as well, 3-0. The game 
scores were 15-1,15-12,15-6.
The Tartan’s 2-1 match record 
so far landed them in the Silver 
group playoff, in which the 
Tartans lost a heartbreaking 3-2 
loss to Alma College.
Three of the five games went 
over 15 points. The first game 
went to the Tartans, 20-18. CMU 
went on to win the second game, 
15-5, and take a 2-0 game lead.
But the next three games were 
taken by Alma, 18-6,15-11, and 
18-16, to finish the Tartans and 
conclude the tournament.
The volleyball team goes to 
Rochester this coming weekend 
to participate in the first UAA 
Round Robin tournament of the 
season.
Good showing in Flower City
The men’s tennis team played 
in the Flower City tennis tourna­
ment in Rochester, NY, over the 
weekend.
Once again, Kayvon Fatahalian 
came up big, winning the number 
one singles competition with a 
6-0, 6-0 victory over the number 
one player from Oneonta State. 
Fatahalian and Jonathan Hui, 
both sophomores, teamed up to 
win the doubles competition over 
Oneonta State, 8-1, as well.
First-year Steve Ehrlich wont 
the number three singles compe­
tition, defeating Oneonta’s num­
ber three 6-0, 7-6 (7-5). First- 
years Jason Zucker and Yogesh 
Oka lost in the number three 
doubles final to Oneonta, 8-6. 
The team plays at Grove City this 
Saturday, and at West Liberty the 
day after.
Compiled by 
Cm>j'oopmC> Cmutg
MLB teams make moves towards playoffs
MLB, from page B1 
Woodward and Bere are a com­
bined 6-5 with 67 strikeouts in 18 
combined starts while Wickman is 
lending stability to the bullpen 
with 10 saves in 12 opportunities.
Cleveland also reacquired for­
mer Indian outfielder Wilfredo 
Cordero from Pittsburgh for out­
fielder Alex Ramirez and utility 
infielder Enrique Wilson for some
offensive help.
Again sacrificing depth for 
immediate help, the Indians had 
the clutch run-producer they 
hoped for in Cordero until he suf­
fered a broken pinky finger after 
being hit by a pitch. If Cordero 
misses a significant amount of 
time, the Indians will sorely regret 
this deal.
The other big deadline deals
Matt Blum/Art Staff
involved the Orioles cashing in 
their chips and dumping as much 
salary as they could to free up 
funds to start rebuilding next year. 
The White Sox and Mets, in partic­
ular, capitalized on Baltimore’s 
generosity, shoring up their 
defenses for post-season runs. 
Having lost all-star shortstop Rey 
Ordonez early in the season with a 
broken arm, the Mets jumped on
the chance to pick up a solid 
replacement in Mike Bordick for 
four prospects.
This deal is clearly a rental; 
Ordonez will have his job back 
once he’s healthy, but Bordick pro­
vides a solid glove and steady bat 
that has helped New York in their 
attempt to catch Atlanta in the NL 
East.
Chicago also went for some 
defensive help, acquiring catcher 
Charles Johnson, who starred for 
the 1997 champion Marlins. A 
defensive specialist, Johnson will 
help right a defense that leads the 
league in errors, but can only do so 
much.
Accompanying Johnson on his 
way to Chicago was well-traveled 
designated hitter Harold Baines, 
who still has some offensive pop 
left in his bat. Both players have 
helped some, but haven’t done 
anything spectacular.
After the trading deadline, all 
players involved in trades must 
clear waivers, so not many big 
names usually switch, teams. The 
exception to that this year was the 
Reds dealing outfielder Dante 
Bichette to Boston.
Looking for some desperately 
needed offensive help, Boston 
agreed to take on Bichette’s multi­
million dollar salary (the reason 
he cleared waivers), but has only 
gotten four home runs and six RBIs 
in 16 games in return.
To recap, the team that helped 
itself the most was New York with 
solid production from both new 
acquisitions. Cleveland has 
received even more offensive pro­
duction, but is still having prob­
lems with the pitching staff.
Chicago did some fine-tuning 
rather than risk a big shake-up of 
the team that got them the best 
record in the league. Ditto the 
Mets, who just added stability at 
short. Boston looks to have come 
out the worst, not getting the 
offensive help they were hoping 
for.
Matt Brun is a junior ECE major 
who, like the rest of northeast Ohio, 
can’t figure out how John Hart can 
continue to trade away future all­
stars but never manages to bring in 
the ace starter the Indians have 
always needed.
Travel
MAKE YOUR OWN HOURSSell Spring Break 2001 Trips
HIGHEST COMMISSIONS - LOWEST PRICESNO COST TO YOUTravel FREE including food, drink, & non-stop-par- 
ties!!!WORLD CLASS VACATIONS 
2000 STUDENT TRAVEL PLANNERS "TOP PRO­DUCER" &MTVs CHOICE(Spring Break Cancún Party Program) 
1-800-222-4432
For Sale
.FLOWERS for romance, birthday, platonic, formais 
and more ... make someone smile. Group dis­
counts. ALEX'S FLOWERS. 687-ALEX. 687-4128. Call before noon for same day delivery. 
www.alexsflowers.com
Opportunities
ENTREPRENEURS! Multimedia is hot! Successful Pennsylvania new media company FOR SALE.
Buy Calculus WIZ today, the only software that:
* * Solves your homework problems, 
not just canned examples
* Gives step-by-step solutions, ready 
to print
* Provides interactive tutorials for all 
your first-year calculus topics
* Is easy to use—right away!
Halt the hassle (and learn)!
ONLY $69.50 <2
www.calculuswiz.com/cmu
1-866-230-3559 (toll free) 
or your campus bookstore.
Calculus WIZ contains a customized version of Mathemodcd‘- the world’s leading technical computing system. Available for Windows and Macintosh. Produced by Wolfram Research, inc.
CALCULUS ...BECAUSE THERE'S MORE TO
LIFE THAN HOMEWORK 
W www.ciIcuIu'wjz.coc/ccu

---------------------------------------------------

Nation lewstaeW
Lehrr/an Brothers cordially invites you to attend a presentation on career opportunities in the
Finance Division
Wednesday, September 27, 2000 
7:00 p.m. - 9:00 p.m. 
See Tartan Track for Details
|Cmcit B>oomC>' j' it CquiI oppo>outjo, CcpIo,C>.
MERCK & CO. INC.
Carnegie Mellon Students...
Are You Interested In Challenging and Rewarding Information Technology Opportunities In ThePharmaceutical Industry?
Visit Our Booth at the TOCIBOC On Sept 21-22 To Find Out What Merck Has To Offer.
Information Services Opportunities Exist In The Following Areas:
Database Administration • Telecommunications Desktop/PC Support • Server AdministrationSoftware Engineering/Application DevelopmentResearch Systems/Laboratory Automation Web Development • Manufacturing and Process Control
FOR MORE INFO ON MERCK VISIT OUR WEB SITE AT: http://www.merck.com

---------------------------------------------------

At Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, Information Technology has 
become the business.
This year alone, we've invested more than $1.4 billion on 
developing the technology that gives us our competitive edge. 
We recognize that the future winners in our business will be the 
front-runners in technology.
It's your chance to take on the great IT challenge.
Right at the place where global finance and cutting-edge 
technology meet. Morgan Stanley Dean Witter. We've got the 
resources, the rewards and the environment (fast paced, stimulat­
ing, plus business casual) to make it right for you. We need the 
great minds and innovators to get it right for us.
Ready?
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter will be 
on campus at CMU on the following dates:
Thursday, September 21
TOC 2000, 10:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.
Wednesday, September 27
IT Information Session 
(see TartanTrak for details)
Tuesday, October 17
IT On-Campus Interviews 
Career Center 19 Warner Hall 
5000 Forbes Avenue
:ForIm agImin, cnIm .pggno
emdFokIgpFm tnlvmFiFr,
Careers in Information Technology start @ msdw.com/career/iecruiling
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter is an Equal Opportunity Employer committed to workforce diversity. Morgan Stanley Dean Witter is a service mark of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN » SEPTEMBER 18, 2000
a G>ovC Cjo, pCfCtpC> iooCcpo' oo gui>p nCIj''i ncno>>ow (8) jt omC fj>'o 
team is very encouraging ... I feel 
we’re a pretty cIo'C team.”
The assistant coaches, Yost and 
Deer, have been key factors as well.
“This year it’s been wonderful 
and one of the things that have 
made it really nice is that I have 
had two assistant coaches working 
with me,” said Kendra. Yost works 
with the goalkeepers, while Deer 
has helped out working with new 
defensive schemes the team has 
adopted this year.
“The assistants always have 
their own particular point of view 
in different situations in the 
games,” said McConnochie.
In addition, strong first-year 
players such as Mandy Spagler 
and Kelly Bloomquist, have been 
good contributors. “I was looking 
for those ldds to jump in right
, SOCCER, from page B/l 
\ potential that they feel they can 
fulfill. But there is ni doubt that 
their outlook is positive.
“I’m feeling good about the sea­
son,” said head coach Kendra. 
' “We’re playing the best soccer 
| we’ve played since I came in here 
; three years ago.”
What are the ingredients to their 
improvements? For one, there is a 
strong sense of unity on this year’s 
squad.
“The thing with our bench is 
that no one is very far from getting 
: on the field ... and I think they 
; know that, so they’re always 
ready,” said Kendra. “But they’re 
real supportive, and it’s nice to see 
that — that no one’s sitting on the 
bench sulking.”
Said McConnochie simply, “The
Shaina McGrath/Assilanl Photo Editor
half of Wednesday’s game, 
away, and they’ve done that,” said 
Kendra.
Now, the only thing the team 
needs to do is look forward. 
Kendra hopes that the team will 
continue improving its consisten­
cy, and work on the transition 
game and supporting the ball 
throughout an entire possession.
Presently, the team is focused on 
its next game, at Marietta this 
afternoon. After that, the Tartans 
will return home for important 
games on Thursday and Saturday 
against Washington and Jefferson 
and fellow UAA school University 
of Chicago.
“The kids are really motivated, 
playing at a higher level,” said 
Kendra. “It just seems like we’re 
coming together. It’s been really 
fun so far.”
Jeff Cullers/Junior Staff
TmC cCt’' 'occC> oCic 'pIjo i pij> of gicC' Ii'o wCC;, E>jtgjtg jo' >Cco>p oo 3-1 fo> omC ,Ci>. Ot TCptC'pi,, 
dCpoCcEC> 13, omC Ti>oit' Io'o jt omCj> fj>'o >oip gicC of omC ,Ci> oo nouto Utjot CoIICgC E, i 'co>C of 4-1, 
Euo >CEoutpCp oo ECio OEC>Ijt CoIICgC 2-0 io mocC ot diou>pi,. TmC Ti>oit' opCt Uaa pIi, tCxo diou>pi, 
igijt'o Cmjcigo.
Women’s soccer defeats Grove City
We are hiring engineers for our Chrysler Institute of Engineering (CIE) program, the EGT program, anc 
direct hires. The CIE program is a two-year rotational program where you gain a broad automotive engineering experience base. In that two years you will have your Master’s degree paid for as you 
attend one of Southeast Michigan’s premiere Universities. The EGT program is a one-year rotational program for engineers who already have earned their Masters degree. Engineers in the CIE and EGT program work on a range of projects from NASCAR aerodynamic development, to electric vehicles, to 
new product design and rotate every 4 months. Just stop by and ask about some of our opportunities
Are you interested in working for one 
automakers with products like the PT 
Cruiser, Jeep Wrangler, Viper, and 
Prowler?
Well you’re in luck then, because
DaimlerChrysler
is coming to the TOC on September 21 to help you learn about opportunities for engineers at our company.

---------------------------------------------------

WWW.BUSINESSEDGE.COM/CAREER
Faster-than-net-speed, BusinessEdge Solutions has defined 
industry eBusiness integration. We are industry focused.
We make companies dot.com. We are integrators of technology.
Visit our booth at the
Technical Opportunities Conference 2000 
on September 21, 2000
For more information please call:
800.655.EDGE ext#
Equal Opportunity Employer
SOLUTIONS
think

---------------------------------------------------

Business
18 September 2000THE TARTANPage B7
CMU Inc.
Entrepreneurship 
Center offers new 
startup program
The Jones Center for 
Entrepreneurship in the Graduate 
School of Industrial Administration 
is{ offering a new course this fall. 
The non-credit Technology 
Commercialization course will help 
students develop their marketing 
plans and strategic plans for their 
technology-based products getting 
tc) the market. It will meet once a 
v\|eek from October 2 to December 4.
innovation Works 
holds info session
The Technology Transfer Office 
is sponsoring an. information ses­
sion with a high-technology com­
pany. Innovation Works is a 
regional development company 
that identifies young, high-technol- 
ogy companies and matches them 
with the cash and capabilities that 
they need. Their mission is to 
increase the new-enterprise suc­
cess rate in southwestern 
Pennsylvania by insuring that the 
hiighest-potential new technology 
companies have efficient 'access to 
the right people, expertise, and risk 
capital. Innovation Works’ new 
focus is exclusively on early-stage 
hiigh-technology companies in 
sbuthwestern Pennsylvania.
1 The session is September 26 in 
Rangos 3 in the University Center 
from 4-5:30 pm.
Heinz School assists 
in high school 
students’ futures
The H. John Heinz III School of 
Public Policy and Management 
offers a technology-based oriented 
job-training program. Every year 
lllth and 12th graders from select­
ed low-income urban communities 
in the Pittsburgh area receive train­
ing and paid internships. This pro­
gram encourages more youngsters 
to get involved and gives them 
more exposure to the technology 
job market. Through the 
Community College of Allegheny 
County (CCAC),- students who 
complete the new program receive 
three credits.
Each year InfoLink chooses two 
partner high schools from public 
school districts with at least 50 per­
cent low-income residents. Each 
sfifrool sends about 20 students to 
participate in that year’s program, 
at no charge to the students, 
schools or school districts.
CocpjICp E, 
d>j>ic GoIIipiIIj
Riverlife Taskforce holds 
forum for CMU student input
G>Cg sofjEntertainment Editor
Ask any Pittsburgher about the 
importance of the river and they 
are bound to fancy you a tale rang­
ing from the phantom crash of a 
World War II bomber near 
Homestead to the meaning of 
Three Rivers Stadium. However, 
today talk about the city’s water­
ways extend to a much more tangi­
ble point, economic revitalization.
The Pittsburgh Riverlife
Taskforce recently convened for a 
community forum at Carnegie 
Mellon on Tuesday, September 12. 
Executive Director Davitt Woodwell 
was on hand to discuss the group’s 
current vision for riverfront life as 
well as the development of which 
they have no control.
The Taskforce holds no legal 
authority over the shorelines of the 
Monongahela, Allegheny, and Ohio 
Rivers, but it has been active trying 
to play cards at the poker table of 
Pittsburgh power brokers. A listing 
of the organization’s members 
recites a Who’s Who of Pittsburgh 
civic life. Despite the lack of power,
the association is attempting to uni­
form water development in 
Pittsburgh.
The group’s Web site plainly 
states its focus: “develop a compre­
hensive plan for the future of 
Pittsburgh's riverfronts...[and] to 
create one the outstanding water- 
fronts in world.”
With stadium development on 
the north shore, a planned expan­
sion of the Carnegie Science 
Center, and the Allegheny 
Riverfront Park in downtown’s 
Cultural District, the Taskforce has 
its hands full as many organizations 
are trying to cut a piece of the valu­
able pie of river life.
Currently, the main focus of 
Riverlife has been thinking holisti- 
cally about the development within 
the Golden Triangle - from the 
West End Bridge over the Ohio, 
north along the Allegheny to the 
16th Street Bridge, and south 
amongst the waters of the Mon to 
the Liberty Bridge.
Woodwell and company see the 
rivers as an interactive part of the 
community which can restore focus
dCC OlVuO|lPu, pigC B9
On campus vendors pose 
little financial benefit to CMU
B>ip G>itozBusiness Editor
This is the first piece in a two-pan 
series focusing on soliciting and cor­
porate business on college campuses. 
The next feature will cover mounting 
student credit card debt and univer­
sity ties with the credit card industry.
Last year, the University encoun­
tered complaints about on campus 
solicitation from credit card compa­
nies, cellular phone makers, and 
other corporations. Although actu­
al numbers from the University 
Center’s scheduling events office 
are unavailable, all it takes is a dis­
cerning eye to figure the number of 
campus solicitors has .decreased.
Last year, CMU students experi­
enced a plethora of on-campus 
salespeople at the beginning of 
both semesters.
“Usually they [solicitors] start 
contacting me in the summer to 
line up a table, but this year, they 
haven’t been contacting me at all,” 
said UC events coordinator Carolyn 
Manley.
Corporate vendors are permitted
Heinz introduces new chairman; raises dividends again
by a'CCc GuptaWebmaster
One of Pittsburgh’s oldest com­
panies, the HJ Heinz (NYSE:HNZ), 
transitioned this week to only its 
fifth chairman in the history of the 
company that spans three cen­
turies. Anthony O’Reilly, who 
served as chairman of the company 
since 1987, retired last Tuesday fol­
lowing the shareholders’ meeting 
in Pittsburgh. The new chairman, 
William R. Johnson, was unani­
mously elected the position by the 
board of directors — Johnson will 
retain his positions of President 
and chief executive officer of 
Heinz.
“I am greatly honored to be cho­
sen Heinz’s new chairman and to 
take up the standard carried so suc­
cessfully by visionary leaders such 
as Tony O’Reilly and Henry J. 
Heinz,” Johnson said at the meet­
ing. “Like them, I am committed to 
making Heinz the world's leading 
food company in terms of growth 
and performance, and I am grateful 
to Heinz's Board for its vote of con­
fidence in our management team 
and global growth strategy.”
During the meeting, in addition 
to highlighting Heinz’s financial 
growth record, Johnson pointed to 
a flurry of new business activity. 
The company’s venerable flagship 
product, ketchup, has gone 
through yet another round of 
updates this year.
Over the summer the company
introduced a refinement to its 
ketchup. Until a few months ago, 
consumers would have to shake 
their Heinz Ketchup before using it 
to .mix the thin layer of water and 
vinegar that sat on top of the 
ketchup. Despite a meticulous 
ketchup boiling process, there is 
still some ketchup separation. To 
remedy the problem Heinz scien­
tists decided not to re-formulate 
ketchup, but rather they turned to 
the bottie. Heinz’s redesigned cap 
has proven to be effective in trap­
ping the liquid and repatriating it 
with the ketchup.
This fall Heinz will introduce two 
new ketchup derivative products 
specifically aimed at its younger 
customers. After a change in 
ketchup labeling during the last 
year, Heinz decided to reinvent the 
ketchup product itself for children. 
Heinz’s two new bottles will pro­
vide a new fun look, and squirt the 
ketchup out in a thin stream that 
will allow children to decorate 
their food before they eat it. The 
bottle’s shape will also be smaller 
and conform to the size of a child’s 
hand. As part of the new product 
launch, Heinz will introduce a new 
color of ketchup for the first time in 
the company’s 131-year history — 
green.
Further, the company has been 
successful, despite a near legal bat­
tle, in acquiring land in Pittsburgh 
over the last year that will help the 
company expand its Pittsburgh 
operation. Working with the city,
Heinz acquired 
land adjacent to 
their factory on 
Pittsburgh’s 
North Side to 
build a new dis­
tribution facility 
primarily for its 
soup and baby 
foods product. 
Heinz hopes to 
open the new 
facility in the 
next few
months. The 
city felt com­
pelled to help 
the company in 
order to avoid 
losing Heinz to 
nearby Ohio, 
where the com­
pany already 
has significant 
ketchup produc­
tion operations.
First quarter 
results included 
an 11.5 percent 
increase in 
earnings per 
share and a 
record gross 
margin profit of 
42.2 percent.
“Our vision is 
to be the best 
food company in 
future marked by 
al expansion and 
Above all, we see
America, with a 
innovation, glob- 
new technology, 
greater value for
MARKETS - SINCE SEPTEMBER 2, 2000
IndexFridayPreviousPoint Chg.% Change
eow JotC' ltpu'o>jiI'10,927.0010,733.00+193.09+1.80
si'piq Cocpo'joC3,835.233,860.66-25.43-0.66%
acC>jcit dooc; ux.971.86922.45+49.415.36%
doitpi>p . Poo>'1,465.811,452.43+13.38+0.92%
MAJOR WORLD MARKETS
IndexFridayPreviousPoint Chg.% Change
PTdu 100 (B>joijt)6,417.306,809.50-392.20-5.76%
sj;;Cj (Jipit)16,213.2816,739.78-526.50-3.15%
eaX (GC>cit,)6,999.547,367.51-367.97-4.99%
Market Newscompiled and designed by a'CCc Gupoi
NASDAQ THIS WEEK
Oil up while stocks drop
suT yOOK (aP) - ltvC'oo>'’ cot­
ojtujtg tC>vou'tC'' iEouo co>po>ioC 
p>ofjo' pu'mCp EIuC cmjp' itp oCcmtoI­
og, 'ooc;' oo omCj> IowC'o ICvCI' jt 
co>C omit i cotom P>jpi, pC'pjoC i 
govC>tcCto >Cpo>o jtpjciojtg jtfIi­
ojoti>, p>C''u>C' i>C Ci'jtg.
TmC eow JotC' jtpu'o>jiI ivC>igC 
cIo'Cp powt 160.47 oo 10,927.00, jo' 
EjggC'o p>op 'jtcC JuI, 26. TmC 
pCcIjtC ICfo omC eow wjom i Io'' of 
293.65 o> 2.6 pC>cCto fo> omC wCC;.
TmC si'piq cocpo'joC jtpCx wi' 
powt 78.63 io 3,835.23, powt 
143.18, o> 3.6 pC>cCto, fo> omC wCC;. 
TmC cIo'C wi' omC IowC'o fo> omC 
ofi'piq 'jtcC aug. 11. 
>: “TmC Ccotoc, j' 'CCcjtgI, 'Iowjtg 
p>Coo, pCcj'jvCI,. TmC>C’' i Ioo of cot­
cC>t iEouo wmComC> omC Ci>tjtg' i>C 
gojtg oo EC omC>C. do fi> wC’vC mip 
pCcCto tucEC>', Euo omC 'o>CCo j' >ut­
tjtg i Ejo 'ci>Cp,” 'ijp Cmi>IC' TmjoC, 
p>C'jpCto of avioi> a''ocjioC'.
Z TmC CxcCpojot oo P>jpi,’' powt­
wi>p covC wi' omC CtC>g, 'Ccoo>. lo 
>iIIjCp i' c>upC ojI p>jcC', wmjcm mivC 
'oi>Cp oo 10-,Ci> mjgm', fIj>oCp wjom 
d36 i giIIot P>jpi,.
TmC po''jEjIjo, omio >j'jtg ojI p>jcC' 
cjgmo p>ovC jtfIiojoti>, jt omC fuou>C
iI'o ippCi>Cp oo EC i ficoo> jt omC 
ci>;Co’' ovC>iII pCcIjtC.
dofowi>C ci;C> O>icIC wi' powt 
$6.63 io $78.31, i pi, ifoC> jtvC'oo>' 
pu'mCp jo' p>jcC mjgmC> ot upECio 
'pCcuIiojot iEouo jo' co>po>ioC Ci>t­
jtg'. TmC, wC>Ct'o pj'ippojtoCp — 
Ci>tjtg' ECio TiII do>CCo C'ojcioC' E, 
fou> cCto' i 'mi>C — Euo omC 'ooc; fCII 
P>jpi, ot p>ofjo-oi;jtg.
Cj'co d,'oCc' >o'C $1.50 oo $62.75.
TiII do>CCo mi' Iic;Cp cICi> pj>Cc­
ojot fo> 'CvC>iI wCC;' pC'pjoC omC fico 
jo ippCi>' utIj;CI, omio omC PCpC>iI 
OC'C>vC wjII mj;C jtoC>C'o >ioC' igijt. 
a' i >C'uIo, 'ooc;' mivC covCp up itp 
powt i>Ejo>i>jI,, p>jvCt E, i 'pCcjfjc 
pjCcC of tCw' o> Ccotocjc pioi.
eCcIjtjtg j''uC' ouotucEC>Cp 
ipvitcC>' E, i ci>gjt of co>C omit 5-oo-3 
ot omC sCw yo>; dooc; CxcmitgC, wmC>C 
voIucC cicC oo 1.22 EjIIjot 'mi>C', wCII 
imCip of 1 EjIIjot 'mi>C' Tmu>'pi,.
TmC Ou''CII 2000 jtpCx fCII 8.33 oo 
530.88.
OvC>'Ci', Jipit’' sj;;Cj 'ooc; 
ivC>igC wi' up 0.14 pC>cCto. 
GC>cit,’' eaX jtpCx fCII 0.69 pC>­
cCto, B>joijt’' PTdu 100 'IjppCp 2.11 
pC>cCto, itp P>itcC’' CaC-40 >o'C 
0.35 pC>cCto.
not. TuC'. TCp'. Tmu>'. P>j.
THE TARTAN STOCK INDEX
About the index: The index is based on 15 widely held stocks that 
we feel represent Pittsburgh-based and national companies that 
CMU students are interested in. The index is based on a start-date of January 24. The initial index is calculated by adding the value 
of the 16 stocks together and multiplying by ten.
Index News: In line with adoption of decimal trading on the New York Stock Exchange and the NASDAQ exchange, The Tartan will print all quotes in the decimal format instead of as fractions. Next week The Tartan Stock Index will include Freemarkets, Qualcomm, 
New Yoik Times Co., and Microsoft for the last time—these will be 
replaced by four new companies that will be 'purchased' then.
THE INDEX AT A GLANCE
Open: 9,502.81 Close: 8769.06
Change: -733.75 Percent change: -7.72% 
Year to date change: -4,482, -36.11%
Best performer: QuiIcocc, +7.00, +11.8% 
Worst performer: P>CCci>;Co', -18.19, -21.9%TSI15 BREAKDOWN- SINCE MAY 2, 2000
Company09/02/00FridayChange
Alcoa33.1928.59-13.8%
Apple Compuer63.4455.23-12.9%
Cisco Systems68.5662.75-8.5%
Freemarkets82.8864.69-21.9%
H.J. Heinz Co.37.6335.38-6.0%
Lycos75.6371.25-5.8%
Mellon Bank44.0644.881.8%
Microsoft70.1964.19-8.5%
New York Times39.5635.63-10.0%
PNC Bank59.0061.133.6%
PPG40.4738.13-5.8%
Qualcomm59.2566.2511.8%
Sun Micro.128.63113.06-12.1%
USAirways34.0034.942.8%
USX Steel17.1917.00-1.1%
Market data sources: NYSE,NASDAQ, & The AP. The information 
contained in "Market News" is not to be construed as financial 
advice from The Tartan or Carnegie Mellon University.
CMU-CTE and Indians: a 
winning combination
VjvC; d>jpmi>itStaffwriter
Talented students of Indian 
descent haven’t had a hard time 
finding Carnegie Mellon 
University. However, the school is 
taking that combination one step 
further. Carnegie Technology 
Education (CTE) is joining hands 
with Sterling Infotech, Ltd., an 
Internet service provider (ISP) 
from Chennai, India to allow thou­
sands of students in the subconti­
nent to gain a CMU education with­
out ever having to travel the globe. 
CTE offers courses and certification 
in software development. The part­
nership will give the pupils live 
instructors courtesy of Sterling, but 
the curriculum and technological 
strengths of CTE-CMU. The pro­
gram will offer Indian students a 
once in a lifetime opportunity via 
CTE’s Internet education program.
CTE was founded in January 
1999 by several Carnegie Mellon 
faculty, including current president 
and former associate dean of the 
School of Computer Science, Dr. 
Allan Fisher. CTE delivers informa­
tion technology and computer soft­
ware engineering courses via the 
Internet, much like the concept of 
distance learning.
The directive uses the minds of 
the faculty of CMU’s School of 
Computer Science to ensure the
to spend three consecutive days 
three times a semester selling their 
product at a cost of $150 a day. The 
smaller peddlers must pay the 
greater of 15 percent of their sales 
or $50 a day.
While a complete stay on campus 
would cost a corporate solicitor 
$450, none goes directiy to any stu­
dent-related fund. The payment is 
used to supplement the operating 
budget of the University Center.
“The operating budget covers the 
maintenance and upkeep of the 
University Center. For example, if a 
student steals one of the chairs 
from Kirr Commons, the replace­
ment cost comes from the operat­
ing budget and the vendor fee,” 
stated University Center director 
Marsha Gerwig.
At many universities, schools 
receive a small commission for each 
application completed and 
approved by that school’s students. 
However, no deal currently exists at 
CMU. However, the Alumni 
Association does have a contract 
with MBNA of America for a vanity 
card.
dCC dO|lClTOO, pigC B9
Emily Gensheimer/Photo Staff
|ociI foop gjito HCjtz j' utpC>gojtg i tucEC> of o>it'j­
ojot'. TmjIC omC cocpit, >CcCtoI, jtc>Ci'Cp pjvjpCtp' 
fo> omC 33>p cot'CcuojvC ,Ci>, Cmij>cit atomot, 
O’OCjII, >CcCtoI, 'oCppCp powt. HCjtz j' iI'o Cxpitpjtg 
jo' so>om djpC opC>iojot' itp Iiutcmjtg i tCw 'o,IC of 
;Cocmup fo> ;jppjC'.
our customers, our consumers, our 
employees and especially the 
shareholders of this great compa­
ny,” said new Heinz chief Johnson.
end user'is receiving a “high quality 
experience” according to Fisher, 
but he concedes that there does 
exist room in the future for CTE to 
extend to other areas such as the 
School of Information and Decision 
Systems.
However, in most instances CTE 
works with another college or cor­
poration to allow all “students” to 
benefit from the technological 
prowess of CMU’s School of 
Computer Science while gaining 
live instruction from the CTE asso­
ciate school or company.
Pupils spend approximately one- 
third of their course time in the 
classroom, another third learning 
via computer lectures, demonstra­
tions, and quizzes, and the final 
portion independently studying.
CTE currently holds relationships 
with several local institutions of 
higher learning, including Carlow 
College, the Community College of 
Allegheny County, and Bettis 
Laboratory of nearby West Mifflin. 
For Bettis, CTE is a logistical choice. 
It isn’t practical for workers to 
spend time out of the workplace 
earning additional skills. However, 
Bettis is able to bring on-site educa­
tion to their employees through the 
CTE system.
The subsidiary has forged bonds 
with 17 colleges and other organi­
zations worldwide. While CTE stu- 
See PARTNERSHIP, page B10
Biz Briefs
Govt, webmasters 
looking for work
WASHINGTON (AP) — Federal ; 
and state governments still have a '< 
long way to go in exploiting the i 
power of the Internet, with few . 
offering user-friendly Web sites to ! 
help people do business with gov- ! 
ernments online, a survey found. !
Among the states, Texas ranked \ 
first (Pennsylvania placed fourth) ; 
and Rhode Island last in efficient ; 
use of the Internet, Brown ; 
University researchers said. The - 
White House Web site ranked near ' 
the bottom among federal Internet ! 
destinations.
“Most of these sites are strug- ! 
gling just to get one service online,” | 
said Darrell M. West, the Brown ; 
political science professor who led ; 
the effort.
Brown University reseachers « 
found that 78 percent of the sites 
delivered no online services at all. ! 
Many sites didn't even offer contact I 
information such as a phone num- J 
ber or mailing address.
“This was unacceptable,” the ; 
report said, “considering that even ; 
if the sites provide no services, a ; 
constituent could at least contact ; 
the agency.”
West said there were “glaring 
omissions” in the recently I 
redesigned White House site, 
which had 42 percent of the fea­
tures researchers looked for.
No tomorrow for 
Maritz at Microsoft
REDMOND, Wash. (AP) — Paul 
Maritz, the brains behind many of ; 
Microsoft’s strategies, has become 
the latest Microsoft Corp. executive ' 
to retire.
Maritz, a 14-year veteran of the 
company, was group vice president , 
of the Platforms Strategy and ' 
Development group at Microsoft. : 
He will continue to serve as a con- ! 
sultant, the company said.
During his tenure, Maritz, led the ; 
company’s operating system strate- ' 
gy, urging Microsoft to part with ; 
IBM in 1990 and concentrate on ¦ 
developing Windows instead of. - 
IBM’s OS/2. He also found himself > 
on the witness stand last year in;. 
Microsoft’s federal antitrust trial; ] 
forced to deny that he said he i 
would “cut off the air supply” of-; 
Netscape Communications.
Maritz is only the latest executive * 
to leave Microsoft over the past ; 
year. Other notable departures' ; 
include former chief financial offi­
cer Greg Maffei, former research < 
chief Nathan Myhrvold, and long-;' 
time Windows chief Brad t 
Silverberg.
Cowboy student 
wrangled by RIAA
STILLWATER, Okla. (AP) — 
Campus police at Oklahoma State 
University confiscated a student's ’ 
computer over allegations from the ; 
recording industry that it was used' 
to distribute copyright material. -;
Everett Eaton, director of public; 
safety at Oklahoma State, said;; 
Friday that police seized a comput- ; 
er from a 19-year-old male stur^ 
dent’s room on Sept. 5. Earlier that- ' 
day, the Recording Industry-, 
Association of America had noti-“. 
fied the school about the alleged^ 
distributions.
Authorities identified the com-; 
puter through a campus computer; 
center, Eaton said. His department; 
obtained a search warrant from-; 
District Court and took the comput- j 
er from the student’s room. He 
declined to identify the student : 
because he had not been arrested. '!
Seized were a monitor, keyboard, ; 
two CD recorders, a scanner and afi 
printer. Police alleged that the stu­
dent allowed visitors to download; 
music files and some movies;, 
through a FTP server site, Eaton ; 
said.
He said his staff will copy infor­
mation from the hard drive. The> 
association would identify copy-;i 
right material.
Amy Weiss, a RIAA spokes-, 
woman, said investigators for the;, 
organization monitor the Internet 
for possible piracy.
“We want the material taken- 
down,” Weiss said. “We leave it upr 
to the college and university to 
determine how this is done.”
Compiled by 
B>,it KipIit

---------------------------------------------------

lBn'' tCxo CnOd 'C>vC> of omC d/390 IjtC of p>opuco' fCiou>C' omC Ii>gC'o lBn dnP 
offC>jtg, wmjIC iI'o 'Coojtg omC fuou>C pj>Ccojot of omC ','oCc pC'jgt oo mitpIC tCw 
wo>;Ioip'. TmC p>ocC''o> cmjp j' omC Ii>gC'o p>ocC''o> (jt omC tucEC> of o>it'j'oo>') 
omio lBn mi' pCIjvC>Cp, itp mitpIC' omC cocpICx d/390 lt'o>ucojot 'Co. OipjiI 
cmitgC' wC>C cipC oo lcp>ovC too otI, omC p>ocC''jtg powC>, Euo oo cjtjcjzC omC 
i>Ci itp powC> >C'o>jcojot'. CotojtuCp g>owom itp >C-opojcjziojot of omC Ei'C pC'jgt 
u'Cp jt Ci>IjC> cicmjtC' iIIow' omC p>ocC''o> oo cotojtuC jf' cotojtuiI g>owom f>oc 
cicmjtC oo cicmjtC. TmC IioC'o oCcmtoIog, offC>Cp E, lBn wi' u'Cp oo cotojtuC oo 
ipp cocpICxjo, oo omC p>ocC''o>, jtcIupjtg i tCw i>cmjoCcou>C oo 'uppo>o omC 
CxpotCtojiI g>owom 'CCt lt omC 'C>vC> jtpu'o>,. Tjom omC co'o of powtojcC >itgjtg jtoo 
$10,000 pC> cjtuoC itp pioi jtoCg>jo, C>>o>' ECjtg uticcCpoiEIC ot CtoC>p>j'C pioi, 
omC cCto>iI p>ocC''o> j' cipiEIC of pCoCcojtg itp >CcovC>jtg f>oc co>C omit 99% of 
it, jtoCg>jo, C>>o>. Tmj' l' iccocpIj'mCp wjomouo jcpicojtg: c,cIC ojcC, oooiI cicmjtC 
pC>fo>citcC, itp ojcC oo ci>;Co. euiI jt'o>ucojot itp CxCcuojot utjo' j' otC ficoo> 
wmjcm iIIow' omC'C cmi>icoC>j'ojc'. aII >C'uIo' f>oc 
omC puiI-pjpC p>ocC''o>' i>C c>o''-cmCc;Cp itp 
vC>jfjCp i' iccu>ioC ECfo>C cocpICojot of omC 
opC>iojot. sCw fCiou>C' i>C cotojtuiII, ippCp jtoo 
omC mi>pwi>C itp ouo of IjcCt'Cp jtoC>tiI copC oo 
fu>omC> jcp>ovC pC>fo>citcC of cC>oijt wo>;Ioip'.
Puou>C pj>Ccojot' jtcIupC p>ovjpjtg mjgmC> >CIjiEjIjo, 
fo> tCw wo>;Ioip' utpC> omC |jtux opC>iojtg 
','oCc.
S/390 Microprocessor Micrograph
dpCi;C> Bjo: B>jit O. P>i';, j' it utgjtCC> jt 
lBn?' d/390 dC>vC> ejvj'jot jt Pougm;CCp'jC,
sCw yo>;. n>. P>i';, >CcCjvCp mj' uICco>jciI itp 
CocpuoC> utgjtCC>jtg Bd eCg>CC jt 1997 itp mj' nd eCg>CC jt 1998, Eoom f>oc 
Ci>tCgjC nCIIot UtjvC>'jo,. HC jojtCp lBn jt 1998 io omC lBn P>ocC''o> eCvCIopcCto 
o>gitjziojot. Hj' cu>>Cto wo>;' jtcIupC Iogjc pC'jgt fo> omC E>itcm mj'oo>, oiEIC itp mC 
j' jt cmi>gC of pC'jgtjtg omC E>itcm mj'oo>, oiEIC itp lt'o>ucojot fCocmjtg Iogjc fo> i 
fuou>C cijtf>icC p>ocC''o>. B, omC Ctp of ,Ci> 2000, mC j' 'IioCp oo oi;C ovC> i' omC 
ICipC> fo> omC jt'o>ucojot utjo Iogjc pC'jgt oCic. HC j' i cCcEC> of omC luuu.
SgS - « , 
____________
fSSSSSm
The First S/390 64 bit Microprocessor
SERVERS a SOMBREROS!!!
IBM TECHNICAL PRESENTATION and FIESTA NIGHT!
September 20,2000 
4:3opm-8:oopm 
George Roberts Engineering Hall 
Singleton Hall
Come and enjoy Mexican Food and Win some Cool FREE IBM Stuff! 
Visit us at..........www.ibm.com
760MHz G6 S/390 Microprocessor Exploiting 
Multiple Vt and Copper Interconnects
Presented at the International Solid State Circuits Conference February 2000 
Digital Design for Microprocessor Section
T. ncPmC>'ot,O. avC>jII.e. BiIizjcm, K. Bi>;IC,, d. Ci>C,, y.Cmit, y.H. Cmit, O. C>Ci,
a. eit';,, O. ew,C>, e. Hoffcit,a. Jio;ow';j, n. ni,o, e.nC>>jII.T. ncsici>i,G.
so>om>op1, J. OiwIjt', |. djgiI1,T. djCgCI, e. TCEEC>, P. TjIIjic', P. yCC
lBn dC>vC> eCvCIopcCto, Pougm;CCp'jC sy’lBn
OC'Ci>cm ejvj'jot T.J. Tio'ot OC'Ci>cm CCtoC>,yo>;oowt HCjgmo', sy
rdeWschku
Visit First USA's Booth at TOC and BOC Thursday, September 21 and Friday, September 22
The First USA Business Associate Program is a visibility, significant levels of responsibility,
fast-track management program that focuses immediate impact on the business, and
on giving exceptional opportunities to highly phenomenal career advancement. Visit our
talented students and graduates with strong website and discover the exciting possibilities
technical and analytical backgrounds. Our that a career with First USA can offer. All
Business Associates are provided with high majors are encouraged to apply.
TmC lBn G6 ','oCc j' i 'jxom gCtC>iojot CnOd 'C>vC> fo> omC d/390 IjtC of p>opuco' 
fCiou>jtg i Ii>gC> 12+2 dnP 'jzC itp 'jgtjfjcito f>CquCtc, jcp>ovCcCto' oEoijtCp 
om>ougm omC u'C of Iow Vo pCvjcC' itp coppC> ltoC>cottCco'. TmC cjc>op>ocC''o> 
opC>ioC' io 760nHz io omC fi'o Ctp of omC p>ocC'' pj'o>jEuojot; omC ','oCc l' ECjtg 
'mjppCp io 637nHz jt i 12+2 CmjIICp dnP cotfjgu>iojot. nCi'u>Cp ','oCc 
pC>fo>citcC ot omC 12 wi, j' 1600 d/390 nlP', 
p>ovjpjtg ovC> 50% co>C pC>fo>citcC omit omC 
G5 p>CpCcC''o>. Tmj' cjc>op>ocC''o> wi' 
pC'jgtCp u'jtg lBn?' CnOd 7d oCcmtoIog,, 
wmjcm mi' i 0.2uc p>ocC''. TmC cmjp u'C' 6 
ICvCI' of coppC> cCoiI pIu' it ippjojotiI Ii,C> of 
IociI ltoC>cottCco ot i 14.6cc X 14.7 cc pjC 
wjom 25n o>it'j'oo>' (7n IogIc/18n i>>i,). TmC 
powC> 'uppI, l' 1.9v itp omC cmjp powC> j' 33 
wioo' io 637nHz.
S/390 G6 Microprocessor Micrograph
dpCi;C> Bjo: eiIC Hoffcit j' i dCtjo> utgjtCC>jtg
nitigC> io lBn utoC>p>j'C dC>vC> ejvj'jot jt Pougm;CCp'jC sy. HC p>C'CtoI, j' omC 
p>ocC''o> 'uE','oCc citigC> >C'pot'jEIC fo> omC tCxo gCtC>iojot of ipvitcCp 
cjc>op>ocC''o>, |2 'oo>igC coto>oI-cicmC, cCco>, 'uE','oCc itp nCn pic;igjtg 
fo> fuou>C mjgm pC>fo>citcC d/390 'C>vC>'. n>. Hoffcit >CcCjvCp i Bduu pCg>CC f>oc 
PCtt',Ivitji doioC UtjvC>'jo, lt 1981, itp i nduu pCg>CC f>oc d,>icu'C UtjvC>'jo, 
lt 1984. HC moIp' 'CvCt Ud pioCto' itp mi' tucC>ou' puEIjciojot'.
Bring
Your
Whole
Self

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN • SEPTEMBER 18, 2000
taking notes.
More than just an electronic organizer, now the Visor" handheld can be a part of a mobile note-taking 
system with the Go-Type!" portable keyboard. Together, they make typing information a no-brainer. And 
since the keyboard serves as a cradle you can even hotsync with your desktop computer. The Visor Go- 
Type!" system is perfect for back-to-school But this offer is only available online and for a limited time. This 
year, take notes to the extrema With Visor".
>rhandspring'
SAVE 15% ON THE GO-TYPE! FOR VISOR ONLY AT:
www.handspring.com
FREE $40 Value Software Bundle From LandWare Includes: WordSleuth Thesaurus / TakeNote! Text Editor
tfaa'ÄXj Oo- typ***scW mpvMVr UntHm* arxi Go-T>p*r »Aüemttts c* toe
Credit card solicitors find little success at CMU
l |i'o ,Ci>, CMU 'oupCto' wC>C jtutpioCp wjom co>po>ioC 'oIjcoo>' Iu>jtg 
| fuou>C pCEoo>' wjom omC >Cwi>p' of copCI doCCIC> mCIcCo' itp mjp oCC 'mj>o'. 
! HowCvC>, omC fiII 2000 'CcC'oC> mi' 'CCt i pCc>Ci'C jt omC tucEC> of 
; Eooom' ot cicpu', co'o Ij;CI, puC oo i Iic; of 'oupCto jtoC>C'o.
| SOLICITOR, from page B7 office. However, their public rela-
I At press time, details of said tions department did not return
f; agreement were unavailable.
| Asked to speculate on the decrease 
I of credit card solicitors in particular, 
| Manley stated, “I actually don’t 
| know. Maybe they aren’t getting the 
| student business as much.”
The latest credit card advertiser 
! on campus was Citibank. The ven- 
j dors refused to be interviewed, 
| directing calls to their corporate
requests for comment.
In addition to corporate vendors as 
well as the independent book sellers, 
jewelry merchants, and CD traders, 
CMU also has seen numerous stu­
dents take up on-campus solicitaion.
The influx of student representa­
tives hawking their respective 
online bookstore has not led to any 
policy changes for campus advertis­
ing. Student solicitors handing out 
flyers, coupons, and goodies are 
not required to make payment to 
Carnegie Mellon’s UC.
“There is no charge if they are 
passing out flyers,” said Gerwig.
However, she did note that “they 
should come through our office for 
their protection and that of the 
other students.”
However, none have okayed their 
presence with Gerwig and the 
events office.
According to Sam Heitner, of 
Varsity Group (NASDAQ: VSTY), 
parent company of
Varsitybooks.com, the company 
enlists the aid of students to blan­
ket their school with advertising.
A school of CMU’s size usually 
has about four or five representa­
tives with one team leader.
“Each and every campus have a 
different policy and schedule and 
schedule of which our trained rep­
resentatives are to abide,” com­
mented Heitner.
Reps are paid $9 an hour and can 
receive marketing aids such as 
Palm Pilots and cellular phones of 
which the retailer picks up a frac­
tion of the cost. The company also 
gives team leaders stock options in 
the company. The stock currently 
trades at $.97 a share.
AIME convenes to kick off2000-01 year
JC''C, PiuI, p>C'jpCto of alnu, mi' jtc>Ci'Cp puEIjcjo, of omC o>gitjziojot 
'jtcC mC> oC>c ECgit jt omC 'Ccotp 'CcC'oC> Ii'o ,Ci>. TmC o>gitjziojot 
wjII 'pot'o> 'CvC>iI icojvjojC' jt omC upcocjtg wCC;' fo> Eu'jtC'' 'oupCto' 
jtoC>'oCp jt motjtg omCj> >CIiojot'mjp ';jII'.
The Association for Industrial 
Management and Economics 
(AIME) met last Wednesday for 
their first general body meeting 
of the new school year.
AIME has scheduled an 
Etiquette Dinner on September 
29 at the Grand Concourse at 
Station Square as well as a stu­
dent lunch with Professor of 
Entrepreneurship Jack Roseman.
The group is a student-run orga­
nization for business administra­
tion and economics majors inter­
ested in becoming more experi­
enced in the business world.
The organization will also be 
hosting a Morgan Stanley Dean 
Witter Fixed Income presentation 
on October 4.
AIME’s most notable event is the 
Business Opportunities Conference. 
Over 55 companies will be in atten­
dance recruiting CMU students this 
Friday in the University Center’s 
Weigand Gynasium.
New ‘Riverlife’ concept extends far 
beyond fish and wildlife conservation
RIVERLIFE, from page B7 
to Pittsburgh as one of America’s 
truly great cities. They have hired 
Chan Krieger Associates of Boston, 
Massachusetts to study the water­
ways and how to create a user- 
friendly atmosphere.
However, the Golden triangle is 
merely a starting point. The group 
has its sites set on the ‘Pittsburgh 
Pool,’ the area between the 
Emsworth Dam on the Ohio River, 
the Highland Park Dam on the 
Allegheny, and Lock and Dam no. 2 
on the Monongahela River near 
Braddock. Of course, there are 27 
miles of shoreline in the small city 
limits of the ‘Burgh alone.
Current ideas have included con­
necting all the riverfront bike trails 
to the innards of Pittsburgh, includ­
ing the Panther Hollow Trail to the 
aptly dubbed ‘Jail Trail’ (Eliza 
Furnace Trail along the Parkway 
East and Mon River).
Krieger has also done prelimi­
nary drawings on North Shore 
development between the two sta­
diums. The section includes a river 
walkway extending into and above 
the Allegheny as well as a cascad­
ing waterfall. However, the parcel 
also calls for more tan­
gible economic devel-
Mon Wharf. Currently a parking 
area, the space below the Fort Pitt 
Boulevard on the Mon River repre­
sents one of the most charming and 
delightful crevices in the city. The 
city government is currently work­
ing with an environmental design 
agency to examine the potential of 
the parking lot.
The fragmented process high­
lighted by the professional sports 
franchises having the exclusive 
rights to develop the north shore, 
illustrates an organization is need­
ed to join all these projects.
There have been several attempts 
in the past to create a revitalized 
waterfront. Several years ago, the 
Urban Redevelopment Authority 
fabricated a plan for the city, but 
with a large portion of the property 
turned over to the Pittsburgh 
Pirates and Steelers, the vision has 
been shelved.
In addition to the numerous gov­
ernment agencies attempting to 
exercise control, there exist a num­
ber of other facets that need to be 
addressed. The Riverlife Taskforce 
pointed out that the policing of the 
waterways have been a controversy 
in the past. Other factors that need 
to be considered include the rail-
courtesy of the Pittsburgh Riverlife Taskforce
TmC tCw cotvCtojot cCtoC> wjII 
iooCcpo oo jtoCg>ioC jo'CIf wjom omC 
>jvC>, 'ocComjtg omC cu>>Cto otC fijI' 
oo po.
common sentiments 
expressed at
access. There is only 
one point of river 
access for boaters 
within the city. Others 
have called for water 
transportation. Watertaxis usual­
ly only operate to accommodate 
the large crowds for Steeler 
games.
Additionally, many participants 
have stated the need for a larger 
amount of river activities within 
the city.
Woodwell said one acitivity 
being planned is “Pittsburgh Sails,” 
a sailboat festival comparable to 
the Pittsburgh Regatta, the largest 
inland water regatta in the nation.
Other items of interest call for 
looking at the possibilities of the
TmC Ti';fo>cC mopC' omC so>om dmo>C 
Ccotocjc pCvCIopcCto wjII CxoCtp 
EC,optp omC 'oipji oo jtcIupC omC 
TC'o utp B>jpgC.
fronts. We are going to hold our­
selves to a higher standard,”’ he 
commented.
The idea of continuity amongst 
developers was expressed by 
Professor of Urban Design from the 
CMU School of Architecture, David 
Lewis.
He commented on several failures 
of riverfront development that the 
Urban Redevelopment 
Authority and other gov­
ernmental authorities 
have undertaken, includ­
ing the Pittsburgh 
Technology Center along 
the Mon River.
He stated how the 
University of Pittsburgh 
and CMU were unable to— Davitt Woodwell,come t0 terms with ay common parking areaTaskforce Executive Directorfor their facilities.Lewis s remark high-
giuie ucvci- ¿¿£1 7 j j -t . nopment such as office Somebody needs to set their foot
and residential space. j j it FO
Some of the most down and say, We won t settle the for second best along our river- 
fronts- We are going to hold our- more p°ints of river selves to a higher standard”
road tracks that follow all three 
rivers. For example, the CSX line 
along the Monongahela River has 
stunted river access for the new 
South Side residential and com­
mercial complexes.
In 1998, Urban Design Associates 
completed a set of design guides for 
the three rivers.
Woodwell is unsure of how to 
commit all the entities to a unified 
system and design.
“Somebody needs to set their 
foot down and say, ‘We won’t settle 
for second best along our river-
lights a failure at riverfront devel­
opment.
Despite the theme of agency 
interplay, sophomore psychology 
major Matthew Hornyak illustrated 
the failures of the government 
development of the Niagara River 
in Buffalo, NY.
“Is it possible to see small, visible 
steps instead of a ‘let’s do it all now 
approach,” he asked. “In Buffalo, 
they have been working for 15 
years as big government with big 
plans and they haven’t made any 
progress.”

---------------------------------------------------

One Source
‘ What
f jj&X -j does it take
j>*j to create a global
powerhouse? A pioneer 
dedicated to providing the 
product, systems and service 
solutions that are revolutionizing the 
future of communications? A creator of 
Innovative technologies thot span from 
wireless and broadcast to government 
systems and network support 7 What begins 
with Insight and enthusiasm as dynamic os 
yours, the result can only be Harris. With mrr 
Si.; billion In sales and locations that span 
go countries, our record growth and leading 
edge innovation Is a direct result of the wide 
range talent and drive of professionals like 
you. We do mare titan fust recogni/e your 
unique contributions, we reward your 
Individual achievements and provide the 
aggressive growlh potential you deserve, 
loin u' and sec for yourself that the 
only source you need to excel
Technical 
Opportunities 
Conference 2000
Sept. 21st, 
io:ooam~5:oopm
Harris offers 
competitive 
salaries, a 
generous benefits 
package and aggressive 
opportunities for 
professional and personol 
growth. For immediate 
consideration, please contact: Harris Corporation, Source Code: ENGCFR/, 102s West Nasa Blvd., Mail Stop 19, Melbourne, FL 32919; E-mail: harrlsjobsdi hlresystems.com 
Equal Opportunity 
Employer.
Harris career
THE TARTAN • SEPTEMBER 18, 2000
Tennessee investigates Firestone tire 
reports about dealer recall practices
NASHVILLE, Tenn. (AP) — The 
^Tennessee attorney general is inves­
tigating reports that used-tire deal­
ers are selling recalled Firestones to 
customers, who then can trade them 
in for free, new replacements under 
Bridgestone/Firestone’s recall pro­
gram.
Sharon Curtis-Flair, spokes­
woman for Attorney General Paul 
Summers, said several states have 
talked to the company about what 
she called “a very serious situa­
tion.”
Company spokeswoman Christine 
Karbowiak said the company is out­
raged that the recalled tires — sus­
pected in dozens of traffic fatalities 
^— are being resold.
“For people to take these tires 
and then resell them is not only 
^unethical but quite possibly could 
jeopardize the safety of the-driving 
public,” she said.
Tennessee attorney general 
spokesperson Sharon Curtis-Flair 
;says going public with the probe 
shows how serious the situation is.
Seattle television station KIRO 
reported Thursday that they were 
able to purchase the recalled tires 
from several used-tire dealers. At 
least one dealer said people could 
buy the used tires cheaply and then 
go to a Firestone dealer to get the 
replacements.
Dennis Walton, manager of 
Freymuller Enterprises in Seattle, 
told the AP that he had sold a set of 
the recalled tires to KIRO.
“I made a mistake,” Walton said. 
“I’m not going to sell a tire that can 
possibly hurt someone. There are a 
lot of people selling them and they 
don’t care. I do care.”
The National Highway Traffic 
Safety Administration has said it is 
investigating 88 deaths and more 
than 250 injuries over the past 
decade involving Firestone tires. A 
recall of 6.5 million ATX, ATX-II 
and' Wilderness AT tires was 
announced Aug. 9, mostly on Ford 
Explorers.
Tennessee attorney general 
spokesperson Sharon Curtis-Flair 
tells why the state took a leading 
role in the probe.
It’s not known what is wrong 
with the tires. Bridgestone / 
Firestone’s U.S. chief of quality con­
trol acknowledged in a deposition 
Friday that there is a defect with a 
small number of the company's tires.
Robert Wyant, who in June took 
the helm of quality control at 
Bridgestone/Firestone, a sub­
sidiary of Tokyo-based Bridgestone 
Corp., declined to comment 
Friday. But Patrick Zummo, an attor­
ney for Bridgestone / Firestone, said 
Wyant did acknowledge that some 
tires are defective, echoing con­
gressional testimony given by oth­
ers earlier.
Wyant and other executives were 
giving depositions as part of a 
Texas lawsuit set for trial Oct. 16 
regarding Nidia and Patricio Leal, 
who were killed when their Ford
Explorer crashed into a utility pole 
after a Firestone tire blew out.
Meanwhile, Venezuela’s Congress 
will begin public hearings next week 
to determine whether Ford and 
Bridgestone/Firestone should be 
held responsible for at least 46 fatal 
accidents that allegedly occurred in 
that country linked to faulty tires 
mounted on Ford Explorers.
Across the United States, 
Bridgestone/Firestone is collecting 
its recalled tires at nine regional 
sites and 1,500 stores for federal 
documentation and then shipping 
them off to rubber recycling plants.
The company has collected 2.3 
million tires so far.
Recalled tires brought to 
Firestone dealers for replacements 
are not resold to used-tire dealers, 
spokeswoman Susan Sizemore said.
But because the recall was done vol­
untarily by Bridgestone / Firestone, 
used-tire dealers are not obligated to 
return the tires. In Pennsylvania, offi­
cials said they have been investigat­
ing resales for the past week but 
declined to release details.
The Tennessee attorney general’s 
office wrote to Firestone’s general 
counsel on Thursday, requesting 
information on what the company 
was doing to remove the recalled 
tires from sale as used tires.
“Needless to say, this concerns 
us,” Cynthia Kinser, a Tennessee 
deputy attorney general, wrote to 
Glenn Haase, Bridgestone / 
Firestone general counsel.
Business0
Make it your business to be business.
Seeking bright, motivated, and business- 
minded individuals for the Tartan 
Business Staff.
Send Email: bdg@andrew.cmu.edu
EIP giving small businesses and students 
an opportunity at hard-earned success
Andy FrancisrAsst. Arts & Living Editor
Adjunct professor Lynne Pastor 
isn’t teaching her usual introducto­
ry business courses this semester. 
However, she is in charge of one of 
the business administration’s most 
successful undertakings: the
Entrepreneurial Internship 
Program (EIP). Pastor is overseeing 
an initiative, which allows local 
small technological firms to hire 
CMU student talent at a fraction of 
the cost.
Thanks to grants from the 
Kaufmann Foundation for 
Entrepreneurship and the Heinz 
Endowments, EIP has been able to 
provide 30 percent of the cost of a 
student intern for the participating 
companies. Many small businesses 
cannot afford the money and 
opportunity cost of hiring an 
intern.
The system has been in place for 
two full years. This past summer ten 
students out of 20 applicants partic­
ipated in the undertaking, eight of 
whom were eventually offered full­
time positions. Pastor commented 
that this semester, a record number 
of applications were received.
This fall, students will be expect­
ed to work between 10 and 20 
hours at a blossoming enterprise. 
The summer participants usually 
worked up to 35 hours per week. 
Following the experience, interns 
are required to write an analysis of 
their part-time job. They must also 
conduct a financial analysis of their 
time at the company.
“They are to perform a return on 
investment calculation. They need 
to find competitive salaries from 
other employers and compare it to 
a full-time salary they would 
receive from their host compa­
ny, "’’noted Pastor.
The factor separating EIP from 
traditional internships is the 
responsibilities of the companies. 
EIP requires employers to place 
their interns into an integral project 
with demanding tasks. Companies 
are also required to have their 
interns report directly to the higher 
operatives of the company. . By 
doing so, interns can also perceive 
what it would be like to run their 
own small firm.
“Many times employers relegate 
interns to pouring coffee and mak­
ing copies. We want to ensure that 
students get an experience. Of 
course, many people at small com­
panies have to pour the coffee and 
make copies as well as their regular 
responsibilities,” said Pastor.
The interns receive credit from 
Carnegie Mellon in the form of an 
independent study course in addi­
tion to the stipend. However, many 
times offers extend much further 
beyond an intern’s base salary.
Two summers ago, CMU junior 
business adminsitration student 
Anupam Singhall worked at 
Papyrus Software of Pittsburgh as a 
freshman. After making a signifi­
cant contribution to the business, 
he was offered stock options and a 
full-time position to put school on 
hiatus and work full time for 
Papyrus.
Trishna Patodia, a junior busi­
ness administration major, worked 
for Direct Advantage Marketing 
(DAM) this past summer.
“Before I was in awe of the large 
corporation, but after this intern­
ship, I definitely would like to work 
for a small company next summer,” 
espoused Patodia.
Patodia had little experience 
with database design prior to DAM.
“I hadn’t even looked at Access 
before. But everyone was very help­
ful and understanding.”
Patodia created a database that 
accepted information from tele- 
markters to aid almost every aspect
of the company from the finance to 
operations division. Prior to the 
system, a complete report would 
take up to five hours to compile. 
Afterwards, it took a mere 15 min­
utes.
The finance sector would use the 
massive database to compile 
employee bonuses, while telemark- 
ters were able to enter subject infor­
mation such as location, salary, and 
question responses.
“It was a great time. I got to min­
gle with everybody in the company.
I had to attend meetings with the j 
department heads to find what 
they needed the database to do and I 
make the system work for them.”
While Patodia had a tremendous f 
time, Pastor says EIP considers it a I 
success when students return and 
conclude the opposite.
“ The other side to a student who j 
loves the environment, is those 
who conclude they do not enjoy or 
thrive in the chaos of a smaller, burJ 
geoning company and are in.fact! 
frustrated by it and cannot see their 
contribution.”
While students can gain the ben­
efits of experience, the companies j 
in turn find great satisfaction.
“The companies come back and H 
want to it over and over again. 
Additionally, we encourage them to 
hire several interns because the stu-! 
dents are more productive knowing r 
they have peers working with! 
them, and it allows the companies j ¦! 
to develop several different pro­
jects.”
CTE offers CMU computer science 
education to the Asian subcontinent
PARTNERSHIP, from page B7
dents do not receive the respectable CMU degree, they do gain certifica­
tion in a 10-course program in various aspects of software development.
The goal of the new enterprise with the Indian ISP is to attract up to 
100,000 students throughout the subcontinent within the next few years.
“We’ve partnered with one of the largest ISPs in India and we are both 
interested in offering a program to a very large amount of people,” com­
mented Fisher.
Sterling will provide the teachers for the students, but CTE will be the 
backbone of the project, supplying the curriculum, teacher training, and 
support necessary to maintain the operation.
There is a great deal of promise in the CTE model. Many in the CMU stu­
dent body would love to gain the educational assets of the IDS or CS 
departments. While many students find it difficult to engage in classes 
across their own disciplines, CTE could rectify that problem.
“There is a gap in the on-campus offering, and in the future, it is an 
avenue that CTE could extend itself to,” concluded Fisher.
Carnegie Mellon 
Interfraternity Council 
Panhellenic Council 
and Greek Council
would like to recognize outstanding 
leaders in the Greek Community2000 Graduates of UIFI "
(Undergraduate InterFraternity Institute)
Susan EitelmanPanhellenic Council President
Vilas KuchinadInterfraternity Council President
Michael D. HutskoGreek Council President
Maya HemachandraCommunity Advisor for Greek Peer Advisors
Recipients of Greek Awards - May, 2000
Drew Ross AwardLou Cohen (Alpha Epsilon Pi)
Outstanding FraternityAlpha Epsilon Pi
Outstanding SororityDelta Delta Delta
Outstanding Greek ManMatthew Lindner (Delta Tau Delta)
Outstanding Greek WomanKat Cohen (Delta Gamma)
Outstanding PhilanthropyKappa Alpha Theta
Outstanding ScholarshipDelta Gamma
Chapters Receiving National Recognition
Alpha Epsilon Pi (Alpha Kappa Chapter) 
JCwj'm affij>' awi>p
Delta Gamma (Beta Nu Chapter)
siojotiI awi>p':
TmC Pio>jcji PCoC>'Ct eitjCI'ot awi>p 
(for overall programming excellence)
no'o Ouo'oitpjtg CmipoC> 
(of all chapters with 60 or fewer members)
Cjoiojot fo> uxcCIICtcC jt acipCcjc acmjCvCcCto 
(Fall. 1999 and Spring. 2000)
u>ovjpCtcC 2 OCgjotiI awi>p' fo> uxcCIICtcC jt: 
|CipC>'mjp eCvCIopcCto, dcmoIi'ojc uxcCIICtcC, 
PjtitcjiI acmjCvCcCto, itp P>og>iccjtg uxcCIICtcC
1999 Ouo'oitpjtg Hou'C Co>po>iojot OffjcC> 
(Terry Kennedy)
Kappa Alpha Theta (Gamma Theta Chapter)
(ouo of owo mutp>Cp cmipoC>')
GoIpCt KjoC awi>p 
Oj'; nitigCcCto awi>p - 2“1 pIicC 
aIuctj OCIiojot' awi>p - 3,J pIicC
Pi Kappa Alpha (Beta Sigma Chapter) 
OCgjotiI Ou'm awi>p 
OCgjotiI aomICojc awi>p
Sigma Tau Gamma (Delta Xi Chapter) 
OuttC> Up fo> ui>I a. TCEE no'o lcp>ovCp 
CmipoC> awi>p (siojotiI |CvCI, 2000)
Newly Initiated Members into Order of Omega - Spring, 2000
The Order of Omega is a national Creek Honor Society that represents the many 
scholastic, philanthropic and leadership achievements of the Creek Community. 
Its members are dedicated to these three Ideals and strive to develop a greater 
sense of campus unity.
uICti BiIC'o>Cj>C, Delta Delta Delta 
nicj | B>Cgcit, Delta Gamma 
JC''jci l GIi''EC>g, Kappa Alpha Theta 
nj;C |jEE,, Theta Xi 
u>jt |uci', Delta Delta Delta 
KiojC njti>po, Delta Gamma 
njcmCIC divC>,, Kappa Kappa Gamma 
nCIj''i dcmcCIzC>, Delta Gamma 
Zicmi>, a dIioot, Theta Xi 
a'mj'm VCtugopiI, Delta Tau Delta 
aIit Tig'oiff, Sigma Phi Epsilon 
JCff TiIcm, Phi Kappa Theta 
eivjp Ti''C>'o>uc, Alpha Epsilon Pi

---------------------------------------------------

Arts (V Living
18 September 2000THE TARTANPage Cl
Photos by Behnam Farahpour/Contributing Editor and Katie Aemi/Photo Staff. Collage by Justin Suissa/Art Editor
This year's Wats:on? Festival concentrated heavily on collaboration between the arts.
Lecture by popular animator 
Hubley closes Wats:on? fest
played cello on seyeral of her films.
The second of Faith Hubley’s films 
shown, My Universe Inside Out was an 
autobiographical film, showing the 
many struggles and joys that Hubley 
has endured throughout her life. 
Hubley, who narrates the film, starts 
the “universe through a child’s eyes” 
and describes the death of her grandfa­
ther. Parts of the film are darkly humor­
ous, like when her parents burn down 
their house but realize afterwards that 
they forgot to finish paying their insur­
ance. The film moves on throughout her 
life, stopping along the way to depict 
her near-death experience in Italy, her 
relationship with her husband, her 
being diagnosed with terminal cancer 
and later surviving it, the joys of her 
children, the death of her husband, and 
the constant fulfillment that her own 
art continues to bring her. “If I don’t 
work I feel sick,” Hubley said after the 
showings.
“Witch Madness” was the final film 
shown. The majority of the film depicted 
“322 years of European witch hunts.” 
Though the film was disturbing at some 
points, with women being burned and 
hanged for their supposed witchcraft, 
Hubley said she showed the film to her 
grandchildren. “Adults don’t under­
stand that children can see and know 
the truth,” she said. Her grandchildren, 
naturally, loved the film.
Two of Hubley’s children are involved 
in the arts as well. Her daughter Emily 
Hubley is a well-established animator 
herself, and is one of the many people 
who help put her mother’s films togeth­
er. Her other daughter, Georgia Hubley, 
is one of the founders of popular indie- 
rock group Yo La Tengo. Faith Hubley 
herself is a senior critic in filmmaking at 
the School of Art at Yale University.
Though in her 70s, Hubley continues 
to put out one film each year. Though, 
even with all the critical acclaim and 
awards that she and her husband have 
received, Hubley said that staying inde­
pendent is not easy. “It’s a combination 
of begging and magic,” Hubley said 
about getting the money to finish each 
of her films. “Independence is risk and I 
wouldn’t have it any other way.”
“Creation of the World” performance combines 
music, dance with computer-generated graphics
by Andy FrancisAssistant Arts & Living Editor
Each year’s Wats: on? Festival bills itself as 
a “festival across the arts.” Indeed, works 
from all disciplines of artistic expression, 
from art and architecture to dance and 
drama, are featured over Wats:on?’s three 
days. However, few events embody the spir­
it of the festival the way Wednesday’s pro­
duction “The Creation of the World: an inte­
grated performance” did. Combining classic 
jazz music, new and unusual dance meth­
ods, and computer-generated graphics, this 
half-hour performance depicted the earth’s 
beginnings, bringing the audience about all 
the information their eyes and ears could 
handle.
As the show opened, the house lights 
dimmed as a large screen at the rear of the 
stage displayed a stark, black-and-white rep-
resentation of the earth. Members of 
Pittsburgh’s Dance Alloy lay in the shadows 
on stage, while the Carnegie Mellon Jazz 
Ensemble prepared to open the show. The 
music began slowly, the dancers began to 
stretch out, and a computer-generated color 
image of the earth began to form. This coop­
eration between the three art forms would 
come to define the performance. Swelling 
crescendos from the jazz ensemble were usu­
ally accompanied by increasing movement 
from the dancers onstage and increasingly 
potent on-screen images.
Early on, it became clear that the musi­
cians were to be responsible for the show’s 
pacing and atmosphere. The score, by com­
poser Darius Milhaud, switched frequently 
between slow and fast tempos, and the 
dancers generally followed suit. The Dance 
Alloy crawled and crept across the stage as 
the music built up and collapsed back to the 
floor when it mellowed out again.
The show’s thematic message was some­
what unclear early on. The image of the 
earth presented initially turned for some rea­
son into the shape of a zero. Then, as the 
score’s volume increased, a series of zeroes 
and ones appeared one by one on the screen 
as the dancers struggled to rise from the 
floor. As the song ended, the images disap­
peared and the dancers retreated to the 
floor. Following that, the same sort of thing 
happened once again. The dancers contin­
ued trying to rise during a new song, per­
haps implying evolution, as words like 
“awareness,” “understanding,” and “expres­
sion” filled the screen. While the music was 
enjoyable throughout this first half of the 
show, the interpretive dancers and images 
were less compelling. The dancers spent too 
much time writhing around and not doing 
anything really identifiable as dance, while 
See CREATION, page C2
STUDIO panel discusses art/science interaction
by Emily LandesSenior Staffwriter
Of the many panel discussions included in 
this year’s Wats:on? arts festival, perhaps 
hone represented the varied strengths of 
Carnegie Mellon as well as “Hybrid Models.” 
The panel consisted of three .fellows at the 
STUDIO for Creative Inquiry — Heidi 
Kumao, Michael Mateas, Patricia Maurides
— and Ken Goldberg, an artist and associate 
professor of engineering at the University of 
California at Berkeley. “Hybrid Models” was 
moderated by Robert Atkins, an art historian 
and a research fellow at the STUDIO.
All of the artists involved in the discussion 
were “boundary-blurring” artists, whose 
work combines art and various aspects of 
technology. Currently, the STUDIO’S major 
exhibition here in Pittsburgh is “Fusion! 
Artists in a Research Setting.” The display 
aims to combine technology and design into 
innovative works. As such, the central con­
cern of the panel was the result of scientific 
and artistic collaboration. Most of the pan­
elists seemed in favor of such collaborations. 
Maurides said that scientists could bring 
both funding and high-powered tools to the 
art world and Kumao said that she found her 
early collaborations easy because “you have 
a clear division of labor.”
Mateas, however, offered a dissenting 
opinion on the subject. He said that the clear 
division that Kumao referred to only led to a 
“top-down” approach to art that doesn’t 
always end with the most satisfying results. 
He acknowledged, though, that being anti­
collaboration is not a popular opinion. “Not 
liking collaboration isr like saying that you- 
like killing babies,” he joked.
The other problem with collaboration, 
according to Mateas, is that artists and scien­
tists often carry stereotypes about each 
other’s work. He said that often scientists 
view artists as no more than aestheticians
See PANEL, page C2
by Ish HarshawatEditor-in-Chief
Everyone has grown up with anima­
tion, in the form of Disney movies or 
Saturday morning cartoons. Sometimes 
we learn a moral lesson from them, or 
we are simply entertained for a half- 
hour by the Powerpuff Girls. But anima­
tion can be much more than this, and 
one person who has repeatedly shown 
this to be the case is Faith Hubley.
Hubley concluded the Wats:on? festi­
val last Thursday night in McConomy 
Auditorium with a showing of her films 
and a conversation with the audience 
afterwards about her work and life. In 
1955, Faith and her late husband and 
creative partner John Hubley founded 
Hubley Productions, an independent 
animation studio. They vowed to 
release one independent film each 
year. Together they released 21 films; 
seven were nominated for Academy 
Awards and three of them took home 
the Oscar.
Since the death of her husband, Faith 
Hubley has gone on to produce 23 films 
of her own. Three of these were shown 
at McConomy. Africa, the first film 
shown, displayed a theme that has 
been characteristic of many of Faith 
Hubley’s solo works: world cultures 
and indigenous peoples. “I feel I have 
been robbed,” said Hubley during the 
discussion, referring to the vast 
amount of art from other cultures that 
has been created for the past thousands 
of years. She noted the imbalance of 
attention that modern and so-called 
primitive art receives, and her personal 
effort to incorporate the work into her 
animation.
Someone accustomed to seeing car­
toon animation with talking animals or 
superheroes might find Hubley’s anima­
tion refreshing. Cave paintings, dreams, 
nature, and a medley of other images 
blend to make each piece unique, fun, 
interesting, and beautiful. The music is 
just as important as the visuals. The 
Hubleys frequently use jazz and classical 
pieces to accompany the animation. 
Faith Hubley, an amateur musician,
Architecture duo presents collaborative works 
of art, design to Chosky Theater audience
by Andy FrancisAssistant Arts & Living Editor
When the average person, hears the 
phrase “the arts,” obvious artistic forms 
spring to mind, like music, art, dance, and 
theater. Often left off of such a list, because 
of its practicality and usefulness, is archi- 
. tecture. However, as anyone who’s seen 
anything by Frank Lloyd Wright can attest, 
architecture can indeed be a valid art form. 
This was, in a sense, the message delivered 
by British artists Sam Jacob and Charles 
Holland, creators of the art collective 
Fashion, Architecture, and Taste (FAT.) On 
Wednesday evening in the Chosky Theater, 
as part of the Wats:on? Festival, the duo 
presented slides of their work, explaining
the various projects they had worked on 
and why they felt that their work was 
important. The two men, who seemed 
more comfortable letting their projects do 
the talking, consistently brought across the 
notion of creating public art, which they 
felt had to a large degree been supplanted 
by television and other pop cultural inven­
tions.
The two men detailed six of their major 
projects, ranging from the surprisingly 
clever to the amazingly pretentious. 
Appropriately enough, they opened with a 
discussion of their debut project, which had 
them placing pieces of art in bus shelters 
throughout London. A number of artists 
contributed to the project, which they 
named “Road Works” after they received a 
commission to do more. They had slides of 
two of the projects they did once they had
been commissioned. One was a bus shelter 
on top of which they had made a thatched 
roof that looked like some sort of hut. The 
other was a bizarre display consisting of a 
sign on top of the shelter reading “Karaoke 
Kong” and a man in the shelter, dressed up 
as a gorilla, singing karaoke songs. Again, 
some innovation, some ridiculousness.
Their second project, titled “The New 
Civic,” introduced their idea of “public art.” 
Concerned that new media were making 
architecture and large-scale art obsolete, 
they created a few pieces for public display, 
like a big clock cut in half with the two 
halves side by side and the bottom half 
upside-down. At this point, it began to 
seem strange that Jacob and Holland still 
considered themselves first and foremost to 
be architects. Regardless of what anyone 
See ARCHITECTURE, page C8
Photos by Behnam Farahpour/Contributing Editor and Katie Aerni/Photo Staff.. Collage by Justin Suissa/Art Editor
The multi-disciplinary performance piece "The Creation of the World: an integrated performance" highlighted Wednesday's Wats:on? activities.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN » SEPTEMBER 18, 2000
“Creative Inquiry” group outlines pros, 
cons of multidisciplinary project work
PANEL, from page Cl 
while artists see those in techno­
logical fields as “code-monkeys.” 
He also indicated that conflicts 
arise because of an uneven balance 
of power between artists and scien­
tists, with the scales tipped in favor 
of the latter. Those in the sciences 
“need to be careful not to be impe­
rialists,” he said.
Goldberg acknowledged that 
these issues do exist, but that they 
are not always detriments to an 
artistic project. “CMU is a classic 
battle zone,” he said. “I think that’s 
good.” However, he also claimed 
that disrespect on both sides is a 
real problem and that an effort 
must be made so that all collabora­
tors feel equally appreciated for 
their work.
Everyone on the panel seemed to 
agree that the many differences 
between the two disciplines often 
made collaborations difficult to 
initiate. Kumao, who began her 
career in the sciences, said that she
- became disenchanted with the
field because it was so interested in 
issues of right versus wrong, while 
art is more subjective. “The scien­
tific community didn’t allow me to 
use my feelings constructively,” she 
explained. Goldberg disagreed 
with the idea that those in the sci­
ences are somehow Jess emotional
“The art world is 
the last real read­
out of a personal 
opinion. ”
- Robert Atkins
than those in the arts, citing greed 
and jealousy as two very prevalent 
emotions at work in the former.
According to the panel, other 
problems between the two disci­
plines include a difference in the 
type of languages used, an empha­
sis on optimism in the sciences ver­
sus the emphasis on critique in the 
arts, and the fact that scientists are 
used to working in a group while 
artists tend to work alone and feel 
a sense of personal ownership on 
their work. “The art world is the 
last real readout of a personal 
opinion,” said Atkins.
But some of the panelists 
believed that making these distinc­
tions between the “types” of people 
involved in each discipline was 
dangerous. “We tend to think in 
terms of right brain versus left 
brain,” said Maurides. “We need to 
think more holistically.” As such, 
some of the panelists are hoping 
for a “creative collapse” which 
would entail the abandonment, by 
both fields, of their basic tenets 
and an embrace of new method­
ologies. While Goldberg said that 
this collapse is unlikely because 
people are unwilling to discard 
these basic ideas, Mateas was 
slightly more hopeful. “It’s not 
business as usual anymore, in 
either discipline,” he said.
Burning Man Festival, one of self- 
proclaimed weirdos, eccentrics rules
(U-WIRE) LINCOLN, Neb. - 
Every summer, Leroy Fletcher 
makes the trek to Nevada's Black 
Rock Desert. The Empire, Nev., 
native rides his rusty gray bicycle 
across the desert floor. Three 
white ferrets peer out from a car­
rier perched on the bike's handle­
bars.
With his sun-weathered face 
and cowboy hat, Fletcher looks 
like he could be out panning for 
gold. Instead, Fletcher was one 
of 28,000 people who migrated 
to the Nevada Desert to see a 50- 
feet-tall wooden icon burn to the 
ground in a festival called 
Burning Man.
The festival ran from Aug. 25 to 
Sept. 3. Fletcher has attended 
the event for the past eight years 
and is now a staff member with 
the Burning Man project.
Fletcher can't easily describe 
the event. When asked to, he sim­
ply smiles, rubs the ears of one of 
the ferrets and looks to the sky.
"I don't know ... I don't know 
what Burning Man is, but what­
ever it's about, it's certainly 
something special."
The Burning Man tradition 
began in 1986 when California 
resident Larry Harvey organized 
a group of friends at San 
Francisco's Baker Beach.
What started fourteen years 
ago as a small annual party has 
become an international event, 
held every August in the Black 
Rock Desert north of Reno, 
Nevada.
University of Nebraska-Lincoln 
senior English major Mark 
Baldridge agrees the festival is
special. He attended Burning 
Man in 1998 and made a second 
trip in 2000.
Unlike Fletcher, Baldridge has 
many words to describe the fiery 
festival.
"Instant Disneyland, Brigadoon 
on crystal meth, a doomed post- 
apocalyptic party that you stag­
ger home from with dust in your 
hair." Baldridge said.
For the members of the tempo­
rary community, the event is a 
place where they come to view 
art, to create art and to see the 
namesake of the festival go up 
into flames.
Burning Man is an enigmatic 
event, a cultural phenomenon 
that does not advertise or have 
corporate sponsors.
It is a gathering proliferated by 
word of mouth and the power of 
the Internet.
Some describe it as a cult; oth­
ers say it's a carnival. The various 
radio stations that spring up 
within the experimental city 
describe the festival as "every­
thing that Woodstock wishes it 
could be."
The focal point of the event — 
the man — towers 50 feet above 
the barren desert floor, a wooden 
effigy standing upon a flamma­
ble platform of plywood and 
straw bales.
For one week this wooden 
structure exists as a vertical land­
mark for the residents of Black 
Rock City. The man is the center 
of the encampment and the art 
installations that radiate around 
him.
In preparation for the "burn,"
Harvey and his group of volun­
teers spend months organizing 
the infrastructure of this tempo­
rary village.
The building project resembles 
a real-life version of the comput­
er game "Sim City," where the 
player builds a simulated city 
from scratch. The Black Rock City 
engineers design an ephemeral 
city, complete with roads, a 
power grid and enough Port-a- 
Potties to accommodate 28,000 
incoming residents.
This is a community for artists 
and musicians — a village for 
self-proclaimed weirdos and 
eccentrics, a place where the 
constraints of society are set 
aside, if for only a week.
At Burning Man, creativity and 
invention are encouraged. 
Costumes replace corporate 
dress codes, and decorated golf 
carts are more common than 
SUVs. Traffic jams do not exist in 
Black Rock City, but large living 
rooms on wheels most definitely 
do.
One such structure, resem­
bling a parade float, creeps slow­
ly past the assembled tents and 
RVs.
This large, motorized vehicle 
with a disco ball, barstools and 
overstuffed couches drives lazily 
past the fire dancers, the stilt 
walkers playing soccer and 
makes a left turn at the fire 
breathing dragon.
Here the mobile lounge makes 
a stop, picks up a rider, hands 
out a drink and wheels itself 
across the alkali basin moving 
slowly toward the man.
Indiana University frat dines with 
Playboy Playmate at rush event
(U-WIRE) BLOOMINGTON, 
Ind. - A white limousine pulled 
up to the Delta Tau Delta house 
at Indiana University and Playboy 
playmate Tiffany Taylor, Miss 
November 1998, walked in. She 
smiled shyly as fraternity mem­
bers greeted her.
The fraternity arranged the 
event as one of its rush activities, 
hoping to attract a much larger 
number of interested students.
"There is no better way to meet 
the guys, but to sit down and 
have dinner with them," said 
Nick Mcleland, junior and rush 
chair. "Tiffany is here for the 
Playboy golf tournament. She's 
trying to promote herself, and we 
thought it was a good dinner 
gig-"
The Delts had a formal dinner 
with Taylor along with their 
rushees. At the end of the night 
Taylor thanked the members for 
having her and took pictures with 
them. Senior fraternity members 
received an autographed picture.
The members agreed to donate 
five dollars for each picture 
Taylor signed.
"The house is doubling the 
amount, and we will donate over 
$100 to a soup kitchen. We want 
to give something back to 'the 
community," said Matt Glasser, 
junior and treasurer of Delts.
Taylor, a junior at University of 
Maryland, said she was happy to
be in Bloomington promoting the 
event.
"The Delts seem to be unified 
as a fraternity and have a good 
spirit. They were very well 
behaved," Taylor said. "I am very 
happy to be here, I party with the 
Delts at school."
As a part of a resolution that 
was passed last spring, fraterni­
ties can no longer have alcohol- 
sponsored events. The celebrity 
dinner was one of their nonalco­
holic events for rush.
However, a lot of members of 
Delta Tau Delta are not happy 
with the new policy.
"It's depleting our greek sys­
tem...," Mcleland said. "It's hin­
dering rush, and it won't let us do 
rush like it has been done for 100 
years. Like Bob Knight said, times. 
change and so do people."
But Frank Miller, public rela­
tions for Delts and a junior, said 
the new policy is not hindering 
the rush process.
"It's just hard on the living sit­
uation, it's like living in a dorm 
again," Miller said. "It doesn't 
affect the fun and the brother­
hood, but it restricts personal 
freedom."
Ryan Evans, a freshman and a 
rushee, said the policy is not 
coming in the way of their good 
time.
"I think it's great, it shows we 
can have a good time without the
alcohol," he said. "You see all the 
crazy guys still, just without the 
alcohol."
Taylor is in town for the 
Playboy Scramble, a national 
golf tournament hosted by local 
radio station B-97.
Bloomington's Eagle Point golf 
course was chosen as one of the 
sites for the event. Winners of 
the regional tournament move 
on to nationals, which are held at 
the Playboy mansion. The event 
is held to raise money for 
Athletes and Entertainers for 
Kids.
Chuck Bolanis, the promotion 
director for B-97 said the event 
would not be complete without 
having a playmate.
"This event is tasteful and is 
done with a lot of class," Bolanis 
said. "It's a great sport benefiting 
the community. There are no 
bunnies, and the dress is conser­
vative. It's a first grade event, 
and we didn't feel it was detri­
mental to the image of. B-97."
Taylor visited Nick's English 
Hut, 423 E. Kirkwood Ave., and 
Kilroy's Sports, 319 N. Walnut 
Ave., Wednesday night to sign 
autographs.
"We came to the Delts as a 
favor for my friend Ryan Hagan," 
Bolanis said. "Delts were the 
most cooperative. They were a 
class act and they did everything 
we asked them to do."
doccC> fit sjcoIC VCICz E>ivC' omC >ijt oo wiocm omC CnU wocCt’' oCic jt icojot omj' pi'o TCptC'pi,.
“The Creation of the World” manages to 
incorporate variety of artistic media
CREATION, from page 1 
the images, messages, and equa­
tions presented on the screen 
were, perhaps a bit too cryptic.
The second half of the show con­
tinued much as the first, but the 
focus shifted to more sexual 
imagery. Slower, more leisurely 
music accompanied this switch, as 
the performance began to focus 
primarily on one male and one 
female dancer. The computer 
graphics accentuated the perfor­
mance much better during this 
portion, as images of bugs, fish, 
and assorted other animals were 
interspersed with images of peo­
ple, many of them nude. The two 
dancers started some sort of mat­
ing ritual as the band played what
can most closely be likened to a 
primordial version of “Let’s Get It 
On.” Since their dancing was sup­
posed to depict the origins of life, 
the couple’s movements were at 
first slow and unsure.
After a few minutes, the music 
began to pick up as the couple 
finally connected with each 
other. The screen reinforced the 
biological theme of man and 
beast being more similar than 
different by morphing the pic­
tures of animals and humans 
together. As the final song 
wound down, the dancers ended 
on the stage floor in a close 
embrace that mirrored the 
graphics on the screen.
“The Creation of the World: an
integrated performance” was . 
certainly an intriguing idea for a 
piece that added a new and 
innovative visual dimension to 
Darius Milhaud’s original vision 
of the world’s creation. While at 
times the interpretive dance and 
computer graphics were some­
what uninteresting, the majority 
of the performance was a fasci­
nating way of viewing creation, 
evolution, and in a sense exam­
ining the effect of an increasing­
ly digital world on our percep­
tion of these things. Fitting in 
well with the theme of Jill 
Watson’s festival, “The Creation 
of the World” proved to be a 
unique blend of dance, art, and 
music.
New law encourages young voters to 
participate in election at University
(U-WIRE) COLUMBIA, Mo. - 
University of Missouri students, 
staff and faculty recently 
received an e-mail from the 
Associated Students of the 
University of Missouri about a 
new federal law that states, "All 
universities must make a good 
faith effort to register as many 
students as possible to vote."
The 1998 law instructs col­
leges and universities to give stu­
dents access to voter registra­
tion. It was created after alarmed 
lawmakers saw statistics that 
revealed fewer than one in five 
18- to 24-year-olds voted in the 
1998 mid-term elections.
ASUM has encouraged MU 
voter registration for 25 years. 
However, this year, the group 
will not be alone in its efforts, 
ASUM Executive Director Mary 
Anne McCollum said.
"Different organizations, as 
well as ASUM, are all going to be 
working together to have tables 
on campus so that students won't 
have to go very far if they are not 
registered," McCollum said.
Some designated registration 
sites include the Black Culture 
Center, the Multicultural Center, 
residence halls and Greek hous­
es. Those locations have voter 
registration applications avail­
able, McCollum said.
Yet the turnout for young vot-
ers in November is still question­
able. In the previous presidential 
election, only one-third of 18- to 
24-year-olds cast a vote.
"I think most people don't 
think that every vote counts," 
MU senior Zara Patel said. "Even 
if they do think that their vote 
counts, they don't like the people 
who are running, and they don't 
want to vote."
One complaint from young 
constituents has been the lack of 
politicians who are addressing 
the youth of the country.
Sophomore Kelly Levick said 
the politicians themselves are to 
blame for the political apathy of 
young people.
"I think they should probably 
try do more to catch the atten­
tion of younger people," Levick 
said. "Make (the youth) a little 
more interested in (politicians) 
and make it easier for us to fol­
low them."
Levick said she was ill- 
informed on the candidates' 
issues.
"I don't think I'm going to 
vote," Levick said. "If I could 
make an educated vote, I would, 
but I can't. I think it's just better 
if I don't vote rather than vote 
and not know anything about it."
Chancellor Richard Wallace 
said the candidates have trouble 
relating to youth because of one
factor.
"I think the reason is in the sta­
tistics: Not many of them vote," 
Wallace said. "And if we could 
turn that around, then the candi­
dates will come to where the 
votes are."
Wallace also said another rea­
son youth may not be voting is 
the lack of military conflict and 
current economic prosperity.
Both presidential Democratic 
nominee A1 Gore and Republican 
nominee George W. Bush are 
making an effort to reach young 
voters, campaign officials said.
The Gore camp is approaching 
the youth vote through its Web 
site, www.algore.com, said Alex 
Zaroulis, spokeswoman for 
Victory 2000.
"The youth vote is extremely 
important to us," Zaroulis said.
Gus Wagner, chairman of the 
Missouri Federation of Young; 
Republicans, said his group is 
sending out information about 
Republican candidates specifi­
cally targeted to young voters.
McCollum said no matter what 
measures are being taken to gain 
the youth vote, it is up to the' 
youth to make themselves heard.'
"We are all asking, 'What more 
can be done to get you motivated 
to go out and vote?"' McCollum 
said. "And I think only you can 
answer that."
Arts & Living0
We’re looking for culture junkies.
We’ve got pizza. Free pizza.
Interested?
Email: ajf@andrew.cmu.edu

---------------------------------------------------

Bose is on campus 
Monday, October 30,2000
Interview
We're looking for promising engineering 
graduates who want to work with DSP and 
other hot technologies to produce breakthrough 
entertainment products known all over the 
world. Ask us what we're doing - you may be 
very surprised.
Set up your interview for Monday, October 2 
atwvwv.jobtrak.com
Can't make it that day?
Send your resume to julie_jacques@bose.com 
Please refer to job code CM UN 1 
For more information on Bose, visit our web site 
at www.bose.com
Better sound through research®
Bose Corporation, The Mountain, Framingham, MA 01701 USA
b2000 Bose Corporation JN10448 Carnegie Mellon University

---------------------------------------------------

Are you looking for a dynamic and 
rewarding summer experience in investment banking?
Are you looking for a dynamic and rewarding career in investment banking? Do you 
want to be in a job with a lot of responsibility and opportunity? Do you want to 
work in an environment where achievement and reward are naturally connected?
Then you should consider joining the UBS Warburg team.
i
' if
We are accepting resumes from the Class of 2001 
interested in a full time position in our 
Information Technology or Sales & Trading divsions.
Interviews will be held at Carniege Mellon on 
Wednesday, October 18, 2000.
f, j
• 1 <4 'll #We welcome those interested to apply via your career services office by 
Wednesday, September 27, 2000.
www.ubswarburg.com
UBS Warburg investment banking
UBS Warburg is a financial services group of UBS AG. In the United States, UBS Warburg LLC, a subsidiary of 
UBS AG, is a member of NYSE and SIPC.UBS Warburg is an Equal Opportunity Employer.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN • SEPTEMBER 18. 2000
Adtranz, a world-class leader in transportation 
technology, has the following openings for 
engineers:
m- Electronic Design Engineers 
Signaling and Train Control 
wr Software Engineers 
wr- Software Quality Systems 
w- Systems Engineers 
wr Test Engineers
All positions require a BS Degree in a related 
engineering field. Transit experience is a plus.
Faculty Member Q & A: University Professor Hugh D. Young, Physics Dept.
by Asha Pathak
Business Manager
The Faculty Member Q & A series begins with a profile of Dr. Hugh 
Young, University Professor of Physics. Globetrotter, explorer, and scien­
tist extraordinaire, Dr. Young is well-known among students and well- 
respected among his colleagues.
The Tartan: What brought you to Carnegie Mellon University?
Hugh Young: Well, I’ve been here forever, first of all. I was here as 
an undergraduate, and the path of least resistance was to stay on for 
graduate school, which I did, so I got my PhD here, and was invited to 
join the faculty, so I never left.
TT: What makes you stay?
HY: I like the atmosphere here, and that has several components. 
One is the size. We are big enough so that we have, forgive me for say­
ing this, a distinguished faculty, and good facilities, yet we’re small 
enough so that it’s a friendly sort of thing; it’s not a gigantic 50,000- 
body state university type of thing. So I like that about it. Our stu­
dents are very intense, very dedicated — sometimes too much so, I 
think. We’re all overachievers, we’re all of us driven people, we’re all 
of us trying to reach a little farther than we really can and do a little 
more than we can, and to me that’s a very vital, stimulating kind of 
environment to live and work in.
TT: What intrigues you the most about the way Carnegie Mellon has 
changed since you became a professor here in 1956?
HY: There are several things. First of all, it’s become an interna­
tional institute. In 1956 it was still pretty much a regional kind of 
institution, in that, I think, probably more than half of our students 
came from the immediate area. Now, we have students from all over 
the country, and indeed from many foreign countries, and I think 
that’s fun, to be able to interact with students from other countries. So 
that’s certainly one of the very noticeable changes in the composition 
of the student body. Of course, one of the things that’s had a major 
impact, not only this campus, but everywhere, is the advent of com­
puters. Now, that’s not something that happened just here, although 
we were very much in the forefront. 1956 is an interesting date 
because that was the year we got our first computer here. It was an old 
IBM 650 that used vacuum tubes and so forth, and, when you think 
about it, 40 years isn’t such a long time, and yet the technology of both 
hardware and software of computing had just exploded so completely 
that it’s really changed everything on the campus. Can you imagine 
life without email here, for example? Everybody uses email for every­
thing.
The other thing I suppose I’d like to mention is that we are increas­
ingly trying to emphasize interdisciplinary studies. We’re trying to 
involve ourselves in projects and study areas that cut across the bound­
aries of.traditional disciplines. I haven’t been much involved in any of 
that myself, but it’s been a lot of fun to watch it happen across the cam­
pus. I think that’s a very important trend that has been established 
here. The last two or three presidents have really emphasized that a 
lot. President Cyert, President Mehrabian, and certainly our new pres­
ident have emphasized this. It’s a very, very positive development, I 
think.
One other thing, along with that, and I think the two go hand in 
hand, is the sense of community and responsibility. The architecture 
students aren’t just interested in making a pretty building, they’re 
interested in energy conservation and considerations, the general 
areas of sustainability, what can we do that doesn’t use up resources 
irreversibly, etc. So, this sense of social responsibility, I think, is some­
thing that’s really important.
TT: Are there any particular changes in the Physics department that 
are notable?
HY: Well, there are areas of physics that didn’t even exist 40 or 50 
years ago. We have programs now in physics and cosmology which are 
still emerging fields. Of course, one of the intriguing things about 
those fields is the merger of the very large; the study of the large scale 
structure of the universe itself and the very early history of the uni­
verse, the evolution of the universe since the Big Bang on the one 
hand, and, on the other hand, the tiniest things, the fundamental par­
ticles that we’re all made out of. And that is an absolutely mind-bog- 
gling development that has just flourished in the past 2 or 3 decades,
Enter aeimerCoducu MsJcun
Professor Young has anchored CMU's physics department since the 1950s 
the union of the very large and the very small. Now, that’s not some­
thing that’s unique to this physics department. Obviously, this is 
something that has been going on at a lot of places.
I suppose another thing that I think is important is that, well... sev­
eral things, I don’t know where to start. The fact that we have tried to 
get more contemporary physics into our undergraduate courses. You 
know, when I was an undergraduate student, 20th century physics was 
almost an afterthought. The whole program was based on 19th centu­
ry physics; mechanics, electrodynamics, thermodynamics, and atomic 
and nuclear physics came in in the senior year as a sort of a terminal 
course, almost like a terminal disease; of course, no modern physics.
Now we try to integrate contemporary physics ... I started to say 20th 
century physics, but of course 21st century physics, too ... into our 
undergraduate courses, and I think that’s something that’s important.
One other thing that I think we do, and I think this is an area where 
we need to do more, is to provide courses for people who are not going 
to be science majors, who are not majoring in any technical area at all, 
but who need to, in my opinion, know something about what science 
is all about. One of my pet peeves is the prevalence in this country, 
and indeed in the world, of what people often call “crackpot” science 
or pseudoscience; things claiming to be science that really aren’t. 
There’s a new book that just came out by Robert Park, who is in charge 
of the Washington Office of the Art and Physical Society, and the title 
of this book is Voodoo Science.
So, we need to expose people to enough scientific thinking so that 
they can distinguish for themselves between that which is really sci­
ence and uses the Scientific Method, and that which pretends to be sci­
ence, and is really crackpot science. I can cite various examples.
TT: Such as numerology?
HY: Certainly. That’s probably one of the harmless ones. They’re 
not all that harmless, if you think back to the whole furor about cold 
fusion ten years ago, and the fact that people often work very hard to 
delude themselves. People often work as hard to fool themselves as 
they do to fool other people, and so the line between simply misguid­
ed views of things, on the one hand, and deliberate deception on the 
other hand is a thin and wavering line.
What I’m saying is that I feel that we do have a responsibility to show 
the non-scientists what science really is, so that they can approach 
things with a critical attitude and they can form judgements about 
things.
TT: Earlier you referred to the intensity and drive found in CMU stu­
dents. Do you think that Carnegie Mellon students get too caught up 
in their coursework?
HY: Probably so, sometimes. I think that there is a general percep­
tion among CMU students that they’re overworked, that the faculty 
expect too much of them. I’m not convinced that that’s true. I think 
that’s something that is embedded in the culture of the University. On 
the one hand people complain about having too much work to do, and 
on the other hand they brag about how many all-nighters they’ve 
pulled. So, there’s a certain amount of distance in this attitude. But I 
do feel that in order for a person to maintain his or her balance, you: 
can’t spend all your time studying. You’ve got to have outlets for a 
means of self-expression. For example, I’m a physicist but I’m also a 
frustrated musician. My wife can tell what kind of a day I’ve had by1 
whether I go home and pound the hell out of the piano.
And there has to be time for social interaction. We need to be with 
people. I think that’s how we’re wired. I think that’s something that’s 
built into us. We need to have close, meaningful relationships with 
other people. If we don’t have those, we’re missing something. I hear 
students say, “Well, I don’t have time for relationships. I’m too busy 
solving differential equations.” And that’s kind of too bad, I think, 
because interactions with other people are pretty important. Certainly 
we have intellectual needs and we all want to learn things, and so 
forth, but we have emotional needs, too.
TT: Tell us about your last vacation. I understand you enjoy rock 
climbing — are you still doing that?
HY: I haven’t done much rock climbing in recent years. I used to do 
a lot of rock climbing. I was one of the founders of the Explorer’s Club, 
way, way back in the 50s. I’ve done a lot of climbing at Seneca Rocks.
I do a lot of travelling. As a matter of fact, and you may not know
See YOUNG, page C7
Please send a resume & salary requirements to: Adtranz A-24U, 1501 
Lebanon Church Rd, Pittsburgh, PA 15216 or fax to 412-655-6665. 
Online: jobs@adtranzna.com & visit our website at: www.adtranzna.com. 
For more information, please see us at the TOC or contact Bob DiSilvestro at 
Bob.J.DiSilvestro@US.Adtranz.com.
vr MlHem yiiuncHrJct MhimutPn bPsJgecPs cu vSSJnhecJpP vgcJur 
O ’unfSungP bJpPn,JctD
Elegantly furnished one- or two-bedroom apartment suites include an equipped kitchen, fluffy 
linens, TV, VCR, cable movies, free local phone service, and reserved parking.
Conveniently located at 5405 Fifth Avenue, Shadyside. Two blocks from Walnut Street’s 145 
fashionable shops and 12 delicious restaurants. One mile to CM(J/Pitt/Hospitals.
DAILY, WEEKLY, MONTHLY RATES
5405 Fifth Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15232
(412) 441-4444
http://www.shadysideinn.com
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
' - - - < •. •' ' ¦ ’ /•'
ADtranz
A SCIITE FOR LESS 
THAN A HOTEL ROOM

---------------------------------------------------

Why? Because it's not how much experience you have, it's about your drive and ambition. SAP Labs 
gives recent college graduates the opportunity to grow in a career designed for success. Whether your 
specialty is software development or quality assurance, your solutions enable not only better 
communication between businesses and their clients, but also between everyone involved in running a 
successful company. At SAP Labs we thrive in a young, casual environment where projects are team 
focused, and training and support are ongoing. You'll not only be making a difference in the business 
world; you'll have the freedom you've always wanted in your career. It just comes with the territory.
In return for your skills and experience, we offer you the chance to grow and thrive in a motivating and 
personal atmosphere. We also provide an outstanding benefits package including three weeks vacation, 
flex hours and more. If you are interested in a position in any of these areas, please e-mail your resume 
to:L-UCM@jobsatsaplabs.com.
We currently have the following positions available:
Software Development • Quality Management 
Regional Industry Group • Product Management
For further position details and inside information on the hottest business applications software in the 
world, visit: www.saplabs.com/usa.
www.saplabs.com/usa
(We are proud to be an Equal Opportunity Employer.)

---------------------------------------------------

Procter & Gamble is recruiting for the following majors: 
Full-time and Internships available for:
BS/MS in MechE, ChemE, ECE, MSE, IM, Econ, IDS
Apply Online:
PGlcom /careers
THE TARTAN • SEPTEMBER 18.2000_____________________________________________________________________________________________C1
See Us On Campus:
Hugh Young discusses life, adventures of a CMU physics professor
don’t have any lists, the people who don’t have any-YOUNG, from page C5
this, but I’m on half-time status. I’m inching my way 
toward retirement. So I teach only in the fall semes­
ter.
So, let me give you a rundown of what we did 
since the first of January:
I spent a week in Florida at the annual meeting of 
the American Association of Physics Teachers.
At the end of February/beginning of March my 
wife and I and our younger daughter and her hus­
band spent some time in Egypt and Jordan, sight­
seeing.
We came back and went on a ski week to Colorado 
in April.
The first week in May we were in New York seeing 
a complete performance of Wagner’s Ring of the 
Nibelung, all four operas.
Toward the end of May we spent three weeks in 
China sightseeing, came back from there, and at the 
end of June, drove out to the desert canyon country 
of southern Utah, and we spent a month roaming 
around in the back roads in the Jeep.
, So, I’m a natural-born tourist. I love to travel, I 
love to go places and see new things, and it’s been a 
very exciting time. Yet, I did find, along about the 
middle of the summer, I got to thinking more and 
more about, “Hey, isn’t it going to be fun to be back 
in the classroom again in August!”
$ So, I’m here now, and I won’t go anywhere except 
just for little weekend jaunts.
After Christmas, plans are kind of uncertain, but I 
think we’ll probably have that kind of schedule next 
spring, thought probably not quite so frantic.
HY: If I could philosophize for just a bit....
| I’ll be 70 in a couple months. A lot of water has 
gone over the dam since I was born. As you go stum­
bling through life, you make lists of things that 
; you’d really like to do someday, if only you had the 
time and the resources to do it. At my age I discov­
er that there are a lot of things on that list that I’m 
just not going to get to because I’m running out of 
time. And on the one hand that sounds like a terri­
bly dismal thought. But I don’t think it is at all. I 
think those of us who have long lists, we’re the lucky
• ones. The people to be pitied are the people who
thing that they really, really want very much to do. 
So as long as I’ve got a list, and as long as I keep 
pecking away at that list, that’s good enough for me.
TT: What is the strangest question anyone has 
ever asked you about physics?
HJ: Oh, dear, I have no idea how to answer that. 
Well, this may strike you as not being very strange, 
but when I was a student I would go back to my lit­
tle hometown in Iowa and they would say, “Oh, 
you’re in college now, Hughie, what course are you 
taking up there?”
“Physics.”
“Physics? Well, what is that? What are you going 
to do with that after you graduate? You gonna 
teachl?”
I don’t know if that qualifies as a strange event, 
but that always amused me.
I can think of all kinds of things, you know, when 
the first satellite was launched, the popular ques­
tion was, “Well, what holds it up there?” So, that’s 
pretty strange.
7T: Do you have a particular phenomenon that 
you like to explain, that fascinates you?
HY: I wouldn’t want to single out any particular 
thing. It’s question of what I’m interested in at the 
moment. I think every physicist and, for that mat­
ter, lots of people who aren’t physicists, observe 
things going on in the world around them and ask 
themselves the question, “Well, why is that? Why 
does that act that way?” And so forth. So, I’m no 
different from anybody else in that respect. That 
sort of curiosity, is. what attracts me to physics and 
to the sciences in general, wanting to understand 
things on the basis of basic principles.
TT: Tell us about the course you’re currently 
teaching, Physical Analysis.
HY: We had a curriculum committee that decid­
ed that we ought to have a course that stressed 
what is often called mathematical modeling, some­
times a poorly defined situation, and trying to 
understand what some intelligent questions might 
be to ask about the behavior of that system, trying
to construct a mathematical description of the sys­
tem, carry out some kind of analysis on that system, 
reach some conclusions on the basis of that analy­
sis, and then try to make a judgement about what 
the limitations of those conclusions are, as they 
relate to the assumptions that you started out with. 
It’s really meant to be a great big problem-solving 
course. I want to include in it problems that lead to 
models that can’t be analyzed just by doing algebra 
and a little bit of calculus. I want people to see dif­
ferential equations that have no solutions that can 
be expressed in terms of familiar functions, and to 
recognize that when you run into such a thing it’s 
not hopeless — you can do a numerical analysis. 
The intention is to help the students develop facili­
ty in mathematical modeling and problem solving 
across a fairly broad spectrum of physical phenom­
enon.
We do tend to concentrate .more on mechanical 
systems than anything else, because our everyday 
experience, I think, gives us more intuition about 
mechanical systems than nearly any other sort. 
And it’s always good to look at systems and let your 
intuition figure out what you think ought to hap­
pen, and then there are always some surprises — it 
doesn’t always come out the way you think it ought 
to. So, that’s what the course is sort of all about.
I was not actually, as it turns out, the first person 
to teach this course. I was a member of the com­
mittee that designed it, I consider myself to be its 
“spiritual father,” but another member of the facul­
ty who is no longer here did teach it the first couple 
of times, and when he left, I applied for the job and 
was given it. I’m doing it now for the third time, 
and I like it very much. I enjoy teaching it.
TT: Do you miss teaching the introductory
physics class?
HY: I do, in a sense, yes, because it’s always a 
delight to work with first semester freshmen. They 
are so bright and so eager, and very hardwprking, 
very receptive. They are a delightful group to work 
with. On the other hand, when you’re running a 
course that has somewhere between two and three 
hundred students in it, there are always a lot of 
responsibilities that don’t have anything to do with
physics, and a lot that don’t have anything to do 
with teaching. So there are a lot of headaches that 
are associated with running a big, what we call 
“mob physics” course. And I have to say that it’s 
been a great relief to be away from that sort of 
thing, and to be involved in a course where 1 do 
everything myself. I don’t have to depend on grad­
uate students. I don’t have to worry about organi­
zational details, how you deal with 10 sections of a 
course, and stuff like that. I guess I have to say I 
was worried about this when I left the freshman 
course two years ago. I thought I’d really miss it, 
and in a way I do, but not nearly as much as I 
thought I would.
TT: What do you tell your students, or share with 
them, at the end of the semester?
HY: Well, several things come to mind. One is 
whatever you set out to do, do it with all your 
might. Don’t be content with mediocrity. Don’t be 
content with doing things halfway. Do it flat out, 
whatever “it” is, with all your might, with enthusi­
asm, with passion, if you like. I guess that’s what 
my parents taught me to do. They knew how 
important it was do your best at whatever you tried 
to do. And they taught me that. Maybe that’s how 
I came to be such a compulsive, driven sort of per­
son.
I guess I would say while you’re doing your best, 
set your sights high, but don’t be too hard on your­
self when you try something and it doesn’t work 
out. Nobody likes to fail at anything, but it’s ever so 
much worse not to have tried.
And finally, and this is a direct quote, now, from 
a little talk that I’ve frequently given at the course 
of the last class of the semester: Have some concern 
for the rest of the world, the rest of the human race. 
We’re all in this life together, you and me and the 
rest of humanity, and we have to help each other if 
we’re going to survive. So we should never hesitate 
to offer to each other, and accept from each other, 
our respect, our concern, our help, and our love.
So, I don’t know whether people listen to those 
things or not, but I’m serious about that. I really 
mean that, and I hope that words like that make an 
impact on people.
FMTUFj MjWvWMLMjT. jy’ oAv8BjW. B
CHECK LOCAL LISTINGS FOR SHOWTTMESI_____________________| |£g
Open House
9/13 University Center (all day)
stop by and meet us
9/14 Department Offices
MechE, ECE: HH/ ChemE: DH/ IDS: BH
Minority Information Event
9/13 (7- 10pm)
Peter & Wright Rooms in the UC
TOC/BOC
9/21-9/22 University Center
P&G Purchases Events
9/20-22 Locations are TBD
Contact Career Center
All New: All Yours: All Free
MadAdzwelcomes
Carnegie Mellon University
JvlHMdcyhmusPMd
$500 cash 
that you can put towards rent, 
tuition, books, or whatever, awarded to \ 
:. two students a day, five days a week, 
just for posting a classified on 
www.madadz.com.
Live & Learn.

---------------------------------------------------

C8THE TARTAN » SEPTEMBER 18, 2000
FAT artists discuss their unusual endeavors in 
expanding the world of modern architecture
FAT, from page Cl
thought about the work they had 
done, it clearly had a lot more to do 
with what is generally perceived as 
being art. As for the “fashion” and 
“taste” alluded to in the name of their 
group, well, that was a bit unclear as 
well. They pointed out that “taste” 
referred to how boring and homoge­
neous they felt most architecture had 
become, and that they wanted to bring 
back style and innovation. Finally, 
regarding the fashion part - that must 
have been a separate talk they gave 
somewhere else.
Jacob and Holland moved on to 
their next few projects, which were 
probably their most innovative. Both 
were collage-type pieces, which 
seemed to be their specialty. One was 
a church that they had helped convert 
into an ad agency. Inside the building, 
they had constructed various furni­
ture-sized buildings like a frontier fort 
and a lifeguard tower, deriving their 
architectural inspiration from all sorts 
of other media. Here they made the 
interesting point that “modern” archi­
tecture, and art as well, should not be 
defined by the use of modern, high- 
tech materials, but rather by using
innovative designs and ideas. This idea 
of collaging, which they compared to 
channel surfing, was evident in their 
next piece, the redesign of a nightclub. 
They introduced everyday objects into 
an exotic nightclub setting. An ordi­
nary place to walk was replaced by a 
running track, the bar became a gar­
den shed, and the furniture was, to 
paraphrase them, like something your 
grandmother might own. The project 
was an interesting juxtaposition of 
nightlife hipness and everyday nor­
mality.
The next two pieces, FAT’s most 
recent, sacrificed some of the innova­
tion of the previous two for some artis­
tic experimentation that just didn’t 
pan out. The first, called “Shopping,” 
involved commissioning 30 artists to 
design shopping bags for a group of 30 
London merchants. One of them 
posed the question, “Is the value in the 
thing you’re buying or in the bag?” 
While the shopping bags were in fact 
limited edition prints, they were still 
just shopping bags. The project simply 
didn’t make sense, particularly how on 
earth it could be related to architec­
ture. Likewise with their final piece, 
“Red Dot,” which Jacob and Holland
insisted was architecture but which 
seemed more like vandalism. They 
sent people into Britain’s Royal 
Academy of Art with sheets of small 
circular red stickers resembling the 
dots placed on paintings that have 
been sold, and had the people place 
the dots all over the gallery. One of 
them remarked that the project makes 
people “begin to look at things in a 
strange way,” but it mostly made me 
look at them in a strange way.
Even if some of the pieces presented 
by Sam Jacob and Charles Holland of 
FAT may have seemed quite strange 
and maybe even bizarre, it’s hard not 
to respect the spirit of the two men. 
They clearly enjoy creating their 
art/architecture, and their ideas and 
motivations are very interesting. 
They say that they are “looking for 
ways to make art and architecture 
respond to a wide range of culture,” 
and have been quite successful in 
incorporating a variety of influences 
into their style. Hopefully, the men of 
FAT can avoid silly pranks like “Red 
Dot” in the future and channel their 
creativity into projects more like the 
constructive, thoughtful pieces 
they’re capable of.
LeccdPw TnPrcegu,cPCoducu .ceSS '
Thursday night, designer Michael Zini discussed pedagogical approaches to designing early education­
al environments. Zini stressed the importance of color and material when creating children’s schools.
Carnegie Almanac
50 YEARS AGO, September 20, 1950 — Freshmen were reminded of 
the regulations imposed on them to help them find their way around. 
Every freshman was required to wear a Skibo cap and a name plate. The 
cap was required to identify freshmen as newcomers to the school and the 
name plate was to help them meet upperclassmen and fellow freshmen. 
In addition, attendance at freshman rallies, assemblies, and home football 
games was mandatory, since these events represented some of the best fun 
of their college life.
Freshmen were also reminded that they were prohibited from walking 
by the senior fence and the senior walk. Also, freshman women had to use 
the steps to the left of the center door of Margaret Morrison.
In order to make sure students knew about the school, a traditions test 
was given in October which, if a student failed, meant they could not par­
ticipate in extra-curricular activities until they passed it. For every major 
violation, such as missing an assembly or not wearing a cap, five percent 
of the traditions exam scored would be deducted.
25 YEARS AGO, September 16,1975 — James Banner was named the 
new athletic director of CMU. He said that he felt that student apathy 
could be overcome by some victories by the football team. His goal for the 
team was to become the best in the Presidential Conference. He said that 
while national recognition would require a lot of resources, he felt it was
reasonable to compete with schools like Bucknell, Lehigh, and Lafayette, 
that have academic standards similar to those of CMU.
Some changes Banner brought to athletics during his first two months 
as Athletic Director were extended pool hours, new lights in the gym, and 
the installation of a ventilation system in the locker rooms.
TEN YEARS AGO, September 17, 1990 — The Interfraternity 
Council said they made an oversight when they chose to schedule pledge 
night on the same night as Yom Kippur, the most important day of the 
year for the Jewish religion. This conflict caused a difficult decision to 
have to be made by Jewish brothers and pledges involved with fraterni­
ties.
The president of Alpha Epsilon Pi, a Jewish fraternity, said that the 
house could not have a party on the highest holy day of the year for them. 
The IFC responded by amending their by laws to allow for Rush Chairs to 
reschedule pledge night.
Problems also arose from an away football game at Adrian College the 
following day, which required team members to leave the morning of 
pledge night. While this change affected many fraternities, it was espe­
cially a concern for Alpha Tau Omega and Beta Theta Pi.
FIVE YEARS AGO, September 18, 1995 — Vice President A1 Gore
came to Pittsburgh to ask students for their support in a fight against 
changes in federal student aid programs. The speech, which took place on 
the lawn of the University of Pittsburgh’s Cathedral of Learning, targeted 
a Republican plan in Congress that attempted to cut and eliminate a num­
ber of federal student aid programs. On stage with Gore were representa­
tives from both CMU and Pitt’s student governments.
ONE YEAR AGO, September 20, 1999 — About 1,000 undergraduate 
students signed a petition asking Student Senate to reconsider legislation 
that permitted student government leaders to purchase parking permits 
using the Student Activities Fee. Mike Strauss, a fifth-year computer sci­
ence major who started the petition, said that he had spoken to a lot of 
people who were against the motions in question.
The petition was given immediate attention when it was presented at a 
Senate meeting. They voted to reconsider the motions and defer them to 
the Campus Affairs Committee, which meant that it was as if the motions 
were never passed. Some senators said that they felt the initial controver­
sy was caused by Senate not gathering enough information. By referring 
it to committee, they said they would be able to give the issue the atten­
tion that it students felt it deserved.
Compiled by 
. Seth Mandel !
bBvLyjb TM&RjyAyW8 ovFTjMF.
LauNCHiNg kiLLeR 
e- BusiNesscaReeRS
Diamond Technology Partners creates and implements digital strategies and ‘‘killer apps" 
that not only build new business, but can transform entire industries.
Diamond invites you to learn more about opportunities with our firm!
Technical Opportunities Conference 
Thursday, September 21, 2000
Business Opportunities Conference 
Friday, September 22, 2000
Look forward to seeing you there!
Corporate Presentation 
Monday, October 2, 2000
Enterai
mCodarurcM
stJvaCJl
Questions: Contact Jennifer Cornelius 
corneliusj@diamtech.com
Diamond Technology Partners 
875 North Michigan Avenue, Suite 3000 • Chicago, IL 60611 
ph 312.255.5000 fx 312.255.6000
www.diamtech.com
Equal Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

PUT NAM INVESTMENTS
Create a ,, _.
portfolio
of skills.
At Putnam Investments, we manage more than just investment portfolios. We 
offer the skills and experience you need to develop a competitive career 
portfolio. We've built a solid reputation as an industry leader, with over 62 
years of investment experience and over $400 billion in assets under manage­
ment. We have the resources and the expertise to help you develop essential 
skills such as fundamental research, analytical questioning, and working with a 
team. You’ll also have the opportunity to enhance your time management and 
communication skills.
Learn more about career opportunities at Putnam Investments, a global leader 
in the rapidly growing and dynamic investment management business.
PUTNAM INVESTMENTS
CORPORATE PRESENTATION AND RECEPTION 
SEPTEMBER 21, 2000 
7:00 P.M.
FOR DETAILS, SEE TARTON TRAK
:?1k1 YCII

---------------------------------------------------

RAAXX00C71
GREATAHEAD
NEED A RIDE?
Enteet r 
aiiatmCodmdeu cat capital one
the technical opportunities conference (TOC)________
thursday, SEPTEMBER 21 
10:00 A.M.-5:00 P.M.
the business opportunities conference (BOC)_________
friday, SEPTEMBER 22
9:30 A.M.-4-.30 P.M.
Your great career is just around the corner, 
Let Capital One® take you there. We’re 
one of the fastest growing financial 
services and direct marketing companies 
in America. And for two years in a row, 
we’re one of the “100 Best Companies 
to Work For” according to a survey in 
SOFTWARE magazine.
When you arrive at Capital One, you’ll 
have real responsibility starting day one 
Plus, you’ll enjoy an entrepreneurial 
environment where career advancement 
and company pride are the norm, not 
the exception.
STOP BY OUR BOOTH TO LEARN 
MORE ABOUT CAPITAL ONE AND OUR 
IT ASSOCIATE, DATA ANALYST AND 
STATISTICIAN OPPORTUNITIES!Couple that with our excellent 
compensation and benefits packages 
and it’s easy to see why we’re one of 
“the best." If success is your destination 
come enjoy the ride at Capital One.
INTERESTED IN INTERVIEWING 
WITH CAPITAL ONE?
RÉSUMÉ DROP DEADLINES:
bere egeSptr O trer’tr’f’eg, D1FT 
’r ettUf’erj,WD1FL
100 Best
TO WORK FOR
AS PUBLISHED IN FORTUNE® MAGAZINE
WWW.CAPITALONE.COM
CAPITAL ONE IS AN EOE DEDICATED TO DIVERSITY IN THE WORKPLACE. WE PROMOTE A DRUG-FREE WORK ENVIRONMENT. 
CAPITAL ONE HIRES PEOPLE LEGALLY AUTHORIZED TO WORK IN THE UNITED STATES.

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
l8 September 2000THE TARTANSection D
20th Century works, 20-year-old violinist 
make Orchestra’s fall opener memorable
CONCERT REVIEW
by Aseem Gupta
Webmaster 
& Srinivas Pullela
Staff writer
The Pittsburgh Symphony 
Orchestra (PSO) delivered a tri­
umphant performance in its 
opening concert of the season last 
weekend. Under the direction of 
Maestro Mariss Jansons, the 
orchestra played a diverse pro­
gram of 20th century music, 
including works by Bartók, 
Barber, and Respighi.
Before any music began, how­
ever, a pre-concert gala was held 
outside Heinz to celebrate the 
beginning of PSO’s 105th season. 
Orquesta Tropical served up live 
Latin jazz music while a few 
enthusiastic concertgoers danced 
along. The PSO’s mascot, 
Fiddlesticks, mingled with the 
crowd — Fiddlesticks was created 
as a sort of musical ambassador of 
the PSO. After an hour and a half 
of these outdoor festivities, the 
crowd proceeded indoors to hear 
the performance.
The concert opened with 
Bartok’s “Concerto for 
Orchestra.” Written at the end of 
his life in what was certainly the 
lowest point of his being, the 
work was commissioned in 1943 
for a mere $1000, which helped 
the then-ailing Bartók to feel as if 
his life was on the rebound. The 
piece was enthusiastically 
received, but Bartók relapsed into 
poor health and died nearly a 
year later.
Under Jansons’ baton, the play­
ers of the PSO handled the com­
plex rhythms and harmonies of 
Bartok’s writing with ease. Each 
instrumental section demonstrat- 
ed a range of total colors as they 
took their- turn in the orchestral 
limelight. In the sections with 
thicker texture, however, Jansons 
struggled to maintain the clarity 
of sound and balance between the 
different instrumental parts.
guHncP,t uS LJgdePm .edeJse 6 .urt &me,,Jgem FPguns,
Last Friday's Pittsburgh Symphony fall opener featured conductor Mariss Jansons (left) and violinist Hilary Hahn.
In the next item, violinist 
Hilary Hahn took the stage for a 
performance of “Barber’s 
Concerto” for violin. Hahn’s care­
ful articulation and vibrant tone 
shaped the lyrical sections of the 
first movement. After the melan­
choly second movement, Hahn 
blazed through the virtuosic final 
movement with rock-solid tech­
nique and impeccable rhythm. A 
thrilled audience responded with 
deafening applause that stopped 
only when Hahn picked up her 
violin for an encore. For this final 
piece, Hahn chose to play a selec­
tion from her recently recorded 
Sony classical CD, Hilary Hahn 
plays Bach. Hahn handled the 
piece with poise and grace. Her 
clear phrasing and control of 
dynamics made it clear that a
solid musical intention was 
behind every note she played.
The PSO closed its opening 
weekend with a performance of 
Resphigi’s “Feste Romane.” This 
final work in the series of three 
tone poems is meant to depict the 
sights, sounds, and atmosphere of 
Rome. “Feste Romane” is big and 
loud, but just like the city, it is 
remarkably civilized. In what 
could have easily been a musical 
cacophony, Jansons controlled 
the sounds with ease and what 
emerged was a brilliant perfor­
mance.
During the summer, the orches­
tra completed an extremely suc­
cessful European tour. The PSO 
even adopted one review for its 
programs — London’s Evening 
Standard called the ensemble
“one of the finest orchestras on 
the planet.” Last weekend’s con­
cert began a series of concerts 
that will include several famous 
guest soloists, three world pre­
mieres, and several first time PSO 
performances.
In two, the PSO will return to 
Heinz Hall on September 28 and 
October 1 to perform American 
composer Aaron Copland’s 
“Music for Theatre” and “Lincoln 
Portrait,” as well as Peter Ilych 
Tchaikovsky’s Symphony Number 
Five. The program will be con­
ducted by guest conductor 
Andreas Delfs and narrated by 
Pittsburgh Pirates legend Willie 
Stargell.
Next week Marvin Hamlisch 
conducts the Pittsburgh Pops in a 
jazz concert, All That Jazz.
Professor Starbuck teaches the class of life
Momo Starbuck
So, sweetie, you made it through the first 
three weeks. I know it’s hard only being able to 
experience my cosmic prowess on such an infre­
quent basis, but, like my momma always told 
me, “Sometimes you can’t just bite the bullet — 
you have to swallow.” I’m here for you, 
dahlings. It’s not like I have anything better to 
do in this city.
Capricorn, __
(December 22-iJauuacy. 19)
These neXP'few we^eks are'going to be rough 
for you. You’re goipg tg.be late for class, you 
will catch your Signiftcaut’ot^s in compro­
mising positions widi pieir professors, and 
your MCI bUl»%i^je‘ agronomical. Not only 
that, but you wiiypive 10-straight bad hair 
days and rampant back acne. My\|idvice? Give 
up and gofto church.
Aquarius \\ /
(January 20 - February 18)> > ’
Someone wilL approach^u^dffi inviting 
you to a place you ne^| thought you would 
go. But you jjeed; to go.^Xpu-’^a wuss. You 
never takg. chances. Ju^lgowim it. Do some­
thing differ%£^$r’'¿rwvn4nstead of khaki. 
Walk instead ¿¡^taking the bus. Live on the 
edge. Go to church.
Pisces
(February^
I see you’re st£ 
That’s good/J- 
that fat that’s bl 
hips. But life di 
an upward b:
Relax. Take it easy. Stop fighting it. Go to 
church.
Aries
(March 21 - April 19)
So, you’re walking on sunshine. 
Whhooooaaaa. You’reNwalking on sunshine. 
And it’s starting|ofeel)godd.That’s great. I’m 
jumping for joy. But, as a wise man once said, 
“Dohn’t bee reedickyoulus, Larry.” You’re get­
ting a little annoying with the giddy happy 
schtick. Do us all a favor and be normal once 
and a while, ok? Have a bad day for once. Go 
to church.
Taurus
/(April 20- May 20)
I loiow that people hate you. I know that 
people scoff at your clothes. I know that peo­
ple, laugh at you for being a Republican and 
having an idiot representing your party in the 
presidential race. Some things you just can’t 
help. In your case, there are alot of things you 
can’t help.'Mtliey — it could be worse. You 
could be a Kennedy. Go to church.
Gemini
(May 21 - June 21),
Well, Gem. You’ve;done it again. What, you 
ask? Oh, you know. Don’t play dumb with me. 
I’m no stale cookie, rougiow quite well what 
you’ve beegjup to lately. And don’t think hid­
ing the silly string and the blow-up dolls is 
going to makefit any |es^Qbviqus.‘Ewfyone’s 
talking. Everyone. Go to church.
Trcnmy Y 
swimn^Qg.-upstream, fishy, 
le resistance is good for all 
depQsiting^ound your 
have to be such 
iy from Momo: the
best fifth of Jack isn’t aietfays on the top shelf.
Cancer
(June 22 -/july 22)
If a tree falls atjifijQ one is around to hear it, 
then it ma^eS:,^-ibuftBrv^^na know how I 
know that? fm a friggin’ psychic. Yeah — I 
know lots of stuff you all don’t know. But does 
anyone evet ask. me1 whar I Jtnow? Does any­
one ever care abdut Momo? NoN-would cry 
but it would ruiii'tny mascara. I can’t help you 
if you don’t ask. Go to church.
Leo
(July 23 - August 22)
I once knew this: guy wJ.o, worked in the 
bureau of the FBI thatfiealtwith tracking the 
weirdos who bought copies: of’€atc/ier in the 
Rye. Apparently, they also keep an eye on any­
one who buys Men anefrom Mars, Women are
from Venus, The Joy of Cooking, and 
Experimental Drug Therapy for Dummies. I 
know for a fact that you own all four. I’d 
watch out, if I were you. Go to church.
Virgo
(August 23 - September 22)
Well Virgie, the time has finally come for 
you to cast away all your fears and take that 
big step. I’m not talking about getting 
hitched, or even syyapptng your rubber sheets 
for standard~18(£thread cotton like us normal 
folk. I’m talking about kicking the habit. 
Picking your nose in- public''is not only dis­
gusting, but it’s a health hazard. Those suck­
ers can get hard when the temperature is cold 
enough, and flicking them carelessly in the 
air could take out an eye. You ought to know 
better. Go to church.
Libra
(September 23 - October 23)
Libra, my heart goes'out to you. I know you 
never thought this would ever happen to 
someone like you. I neyer thought it would 
happen to someone like you. But I know you’ll 
get througCit ^ipi^ie^ery moihtkin. Forge 
every stream. Yadda yadda yad^av Just don’t 
keep calling me in the middle of the night. I 
do have company on occasion. Go to church.
Scorpio
(October 24 - November-^!)
Babyy, shake youp groove thing, shake your 
groove thing, yeah. yeah,. Just please don’t 
shake it in my direction! Momo’sbeen getting 
the spins a “lot theseM&ys^ and seeing all that 
wiggling is a,bit much for the old gut. But I tell 
ya, if pubiifc embarrassment on the dance 
floor was an Olympic competition, the gold 
piece around your' neck wouldn’t be that 
gaudy 18k/rhinestdhe monstrosity. Go to 
church.
Sagittarius
(November 22 - December 21)
Sometimes I really wonder about you, 
Saggy. One\day youjseem like you’ve got it all 
together, ,the ne_xt vyou’re off'your rocker. 
Stability"is key, my. friencUDon’t aSk me how 
to attain that. I3m a psychic astrologer, not a 
miracle worker. Just give it a/whirl, let me 
know how it goesi Stay away/from 0 fries. Go 
to church. /
BY ANDY FRANCIS
All About My Mother
Thursday, September 21
Following last week’s showing of the French-fried drarpa V 
Humanité, the globe-trotting Thursday Films people bring you 
another slice of international cinema, the highly acclaimed Spanish 
picture All About My Mother. Popular Spanish writer/director Pedro 
Almodovar is at the helm of this movie, the winner of last year’s 
Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film. Almodovar, with 
25 years of filmmaking under his belt, has made over 25 films, 
including one called Sexo va, sexo viene that really makes me wish I 
understood Spanish.
The plot centers on five female characters: Manuela (Cecelia 
Roth) who seeks the transvestite father of her teenage son, a lonely 
transvestite named Agrado, Rosa the pregnant nun, Huma, an 
actress who had been sought after by Manuela’s son, and Nina, 
Huma’s lover/groupie. I’d tell you how they relate to each other, but 
that’d spoil all the fun, wouldn’t it?
For the record, this recent influx of foreign movies has piqued my 
interest to the point where I absolutely cannot wait for the 
Antarctican movie (Inferno) showing next month.
At 8 pni, 10 pm, and midnight
In McConomy Auditorium
The Perfect Storm
Friday, September 22
Boy, do I want to tell you the ending of this movie. Somebody 
hold me back. But, in the spirit of The Sixth Sense and The Crying 
Game, I’ll leave it to your imagination. This movie, based on 
Sebastian Junger’s bestseller, chronicles the true story of a group of 
fishermen, including Bobby Shatford (Mark Wahlberg), Captain 
Billy Tyne (George Clooney) and Richard Hatch, who manage to get 
trapped in an absolutely stupid storm off the east coast.
There still has to be a few things left that haven’t been the subject 
of disaster movies. Sure, there have been quality movies done about 
ocean liners sinking (here I am referring to The Poseidon Adventure, 
NOT Titanic), airplane wrecks, volcanoes, viruses, waves, alien 
attacks, and, that staple of post-apocalyptic Hollywood, very upset 
robots (“I’ll be back.”) But that’s just skimming the surface of possi­
bilities here. No one has made a single disaster movie about Jello, 
mildew, Carnegie Mellon’s Computer Science department (this 
might actually be classified under horror), squirrels, people with 
unusually large hands, ‘N Sync, or venus flytraps. Above all of these, 
the disaster movie that most needs to be made is one where really 
unintelligent people somehow manage to take over the world. Wait 
a minute. Oh no...
At 7:30 pm, 10 pm, and 12:30 am 
In McConomy Auditorium
Shanghai Noon
Saturday, September 23
Shanghai Noon is what we in Tinseltown like to call a “sleeper hit.” 
At the risk of sounding overly cynical, a movie about a Chinese guy 
(Jackie Chan) traveling to the wild wild west (by Wild Wild West I do 
not in any way imply anything done by Will Smith) where he part­
ners up with a train robber (Owen Wilson) in an effort to recapture 
Princess Pei Pei (soon-to-be Charlie’s Angel Lucy Liu) isn’t the type of 
concept that screams huge success. Nevertheless, the movie’s blend 
of lighthearted comedy and chopsocky fight scenes struck a chord 
with a lot of filmgoers.
Well, to contrast this relatively easygoing, fun-to-watch movie, 
I’m going to go ahead and discuss some serious political ideals of 
mine. Ha ha ha ha ha, no, I’m not. Perhaps it’s traditional CMU apa­
thy, or maybe it’s a general disregard for my duty as a citizen, but I 
for some reason can’t envision voting for anything other than a law 
that would not only provide for the purchase of my groceries, but 
would also pay the salary of someone to obtain and cook them for 
me, as well. That, and a bill outlawing daytime running lights on 
cars. I mean, who are we kidding with those things? It’s like man­
dating hard hats for McDonald’s employees. Rock the vote.
At 7:30 pm, 10 pm, and 12:30 am
In McConomy Auditorium
TBA
Sunday, September 24
This right here is basically the pinnacle, the zenith, the apex, the 
high-water mark, and the mountaintop of difficult-to-preview 
movies. Despite repeated searches on IMDb and harassing phone 
calls to Moviefone, I have been quite unable to track down any infor­
mation regarding TBA. Nevertheless, I feel compelled to point out 
that past showings of TBA have been greeted warmly by most of us 
in the campus community. Still, the lack of information has made 
this portion of the column something of a farce, much like the other 
3 parts. Therefore, I have elected to finish it in a stream of con­
sciousness fashion.
Jean Baptiste, Southern Baptist, Lynyrd Skynyrd, Red Robin, Egg 
Crates, Enya, The Fugees, Ghetto Superstar, Warren Beatty, 
American Beauty, The Texas Chainsaw Massacre, Matthew 
McConaughey, Bongo Drums, James Brown, George Clinton, Roger 
Clinton, Frank Stallone, Frank Costanza, The Crimean War, Tim 
Allen, Allan Houston, Patrick Ewing, Georgetown University, 
Carnegie Mellon University. Enjoy the show.
Times to be announced. 
In McConomy Auditorium
I

---------------------------------------------------

DaTHE TARTAN • SEPTEMBER 18,2000
New Music
Once they pop, Admiral Twin can’t stop
Album Title: Mock Heroic 
Artist: Admiral Twin 
Label: Mojo Records
Final Grade: A-
' by Debra Halpern
. Junior Staffwriter
Admiral Twin’s latest effort, Mock Heroic, goes 
beyond the “everything but the kitchen sink” 
method they are known by. The band’s first album on 
Mojo records has torn them away from the Indie Pop 
world and has brought them forth to the commercial 
world of pop. Jarrod Gollihare, Brad Becker, John 
Russel, and Mark Carr are fully blessed by the music 
gods to stay original even in the commercialized pop 
world.
Mock Heroic is ear candy to any pop fan out there, 
but they never sell out on the album, their fans from 
the indie days will not be disappointed. Tunes like 
“No. 1 Fan” show the bands ability to make a perfect 
song: the lyrics are truthfully cynical, the music has 
; enough drive to sway to, but at the same time you can 
relax to the beat. The band’s strength lies in their 
ability to blend their vocals together in a delightful
utopia of sound. They connect and blend together 
distinctively to form what all bands should have; that 
is their own unique sound as individual members and 
together as a whole.
Admiral Twin’s expertise lie in their lovably cyni­
cally creative lyrics. On the song “Better Than 
Nothing At All” Gollihare, the drummer, takes lead 
vocals, singing “We could be a royal couple of noth-
“Mock Heroic is ear candy 
to any pop fan out there, but 
they never sell out... their 
fans from the indie days will 
not be disappointed.”
ings cause nothing suits you well.” It’s lyrics like 
these that go with the upbeat feel, creating a new pop 
sound. The actual happy pop sound is something you 
can relate to, instead of being sickened by it’s over­
happiness factor. The lyrics are truthful to real life sit­
uations. Just like “Better Than Nothing At All” the 
song “Half A World Away” sings about the normal 
abnormalities all couples go through. The song 
switches vocals off between Becker and Gollihare, 
singing such easy to follow instructional lyrics like 
“blink once if you want to be near me, twice if you 
rather I live in hell” that spell out the child-like 
behavior in relationships.
What makes Admiral Twin truly soar is not only 
their vocal abilities, but also their instrumental 
power. Mock Heroic shows off all' the skills of a true 
musician and songwriter. John Russel’s guitar play­
ing drives the band with his diverse styles. The power 
that comes from Marc Carr’s base gives songs like 
“Such A Saint” a funky garage sound. Admiral Twin’s 
song writing ability never will disappoint you on the 
album, even on songs like “Veteran’s Day” that lack 
the normal brilliant lyrics, still thrives on the instru­
mental capabilities of the band. Mock Heroic from 
beginning to end will not fail the ears. Admiral Twin’s 
sound is more original than any other pop band on 
the market. They have the potential to evolve and 
inspire the same way their idols like the Beatles have 
inspired them.
Rock band deviates from quirky roots
Album Title: Maroon 
Artist: The Barenaked Ladies 
Label: Reprise Records_____
Final Grade: B
by Ryan Hamilton
Junior Staffwriter
Maroon, the fifth studio album from the Barenaked 
Ladies, is the first since their American commercial 
breakthrough with the quadruple-platinum Stunt and 
its accompanying novelty hit single “One Week.” This 
effort finds them straying even further from their 
roots, with the heavy emphasis on production 
approaching prog-rock territory. Instruments, vocals, 
and generous amounts of sampling are layered intri­
cately throughout the album, with over 30 different 
instruments listed in the liner notes, and Kevin Hearn 
typically credited with 5 or 6 on each track.
The songs themselves are more consistent than on 
any previous BNL release, although anyone looking 
for another “One Week,” or even another “If I Had a 
Million Dollars” will be disappointed. “Pinch Me” is 
the lead single, most likely because of its rapped cho­
rus, which is only vaguely reminiscent of “One
Week,” and actually recalls old-school BNL. There’s 
plenty of standard BNL fare, from the obligatory 
Steven Page confessional “Conventioneers,” to Ed j 
Robertson trying to be poignant and probably just | 
sounding silly on “Falling For the First Time.” “Go 
Home” is the standout, being both the catchiest and 
the least prone to clumsy lyricism, although “Too 
Little Too Late,” “Never Do Anything,” and “The
“ [Maroon] finds them stray­
ing even further from their 
roots, with the heavy empha­
sis on production approach­
ing prog-rock territory.”
Humour of the Situation” (representing their 
Canadian heritage with the extra “u” in full effect) all 
come close. The album has a slight tendency to blur 
together towards the end, with mid-tempo after mid­
tempo number occasionally begging you to skip to the 
next track.
The songs are tight, the choruses catchy, and their 
playing, continues to improve. Most importantly, the 
album shows more emotional subtlety than I would 
have thought them capable. But the Ladies will never 
be Brian Wilson, and one could wish they would stop 
trying and return to their previous levels of quirk. As 
it is, though the narratives obtain just the edge of 
eccentricity needed to mark them as BNL product, the 
album will probably appeal more to those who 
enjoyed the latest offerings from Ben Folds Five and 
XTC than fans of Gordon or “One Week.”
Lyrically Correct Grading
v N 7snPeh uS gemJSunrJgecJur"
E N 7wuHms tuH ,cJmm gemm hP ,HiPnherG" 
& N 7uui,0 B sJs Jc e-eJr"
b N 7cdJ, J, ht me,c nP,unc"
z N 7$tP $tP $tP"
Bet wired. Get informell. But iust get with it!D!..FFcmucmsWAdPWd.8Wdetor
bythei r cuhsBhsC r ohsmhsC
kinko's
PlTTCDi IDPU
pldP Wyuaei ngeI x Fdvr.%lrvlOv 
vdP :uYsB -BI 4 FdvrFldr%PPF
Open 24 hours ? www.kinkos.com • 1-800-2-KINKQS • America Online® Keyword-. Kinko’s
PRINT FROM DISK 
RÉSUMÉS 
OVERHEAD TRANSPARENCIES 
DIGITAL PRINTING 
COMPUTER WORKSTATIONS 
ELECTRONIC FILE SUBMISSION 
HIGH-SPEED INTERNET ACCESS 
POSTERS 
BANNERS & SIGNS 
MOUNTING & LAMINATING 
BINDING 
REPORTS 
PRESENTATIONS 
HIGH-V0LUME COPIES 
FLYERS & BROCHURES 
SHIPPING SERVICES 
PICKUP & DELIVERY 
FULL- & SELF-SERVE
40790
M5oFM.. EAv&a O ’RBTM &yoBM.
Receive 8-1/2' x 11* Express seU-serve, single-sided, black-and-white copies on 
white bend for |ust 4f each, limit 50. Offer is limited to one coupon per customer. 
Customer must relinquish coupon at time ol purchase. Coupon may not be 
reproduced and is not valid with other coupons, oilers or discounts. Of lei valid at 
time ol purchase only and may net be discounted or cieited to past 01 future 
purchases. Products and services vary by location. Coupon void where prohibited 
or restricted by law. No cash value.
VALID AT KINKO'S PARTICIPATING U.S. KINKO'SLOCATIONS ONLY.
M5oFM.. &yAyF &yoBM.
Recave 8-1/2* t II* bpress sell-serve, single-sided, lull coloi copies on 24-lb. . 
white bond lor |ust 79» oach. Limit 25 Resizing costs extra. Offer is limited to one | 
coupon pu customer. Customer must relinquish coupon at timeof purchase. Coupon , 
may not be reproduced and is not valid with other coupons, oilers or discounts. | 
Of ler valid at time of purchase only and may net be discounted or credited to past . 
a tutuie purchases. Products and services vary by location. Coupon void where I 
prohibited or restricted bylaw. No casn value.
VALID AT KINKO’SPARTICIPATING U.S. KINKO'S LOCATIONS ONLY. IX kinko's; jjAAD669kinko's
Products and services vary by location. America Online is a registered servicemark ol America Online. Inc. Kinktfs and kintos.com ate registered trademarks ol Kinko’s Ventures, inc. and are used by 
permission. Kinktfs requires written permission Irom the rapynght holder in oder to reproduce any copyrighted work. 02000 Kmkrfs. Inc. AP rights reserved.
amazon.com
Amazon.com is recruiting 
for .uScwenP sPpPmuihPrc and 
’P$ sPpPmuihPrc Pr-JrPPn,D
Come see us at the 
Technical Opportunities 
Career Fair on September 21st 
in the University Center.
’P BB $P $egf ur ygcu$Pn !1cd 
cu gursHgc ur/gehiH, JrcPnpJPw,D 
Tu lHemJSt Sun er JrcPnpJPw0 please 
email your resume (CMU interviews in 
subject field) to: 
gummP-P(ehe@urDguhD
/college
EOE.
work hard, have fun. make history.

---------------------------------------------------

DeloitteConsulting
A very different approach. 
For very different results.
stop by our table at 
on Tt
¦ -www.dc.com/careers
'
C. Also;join us for an Information Session
r 5th from 6:30-8:30 PM.
©2000 Deloitte Consulting. All Rights Reserved Deloitte Consulting refers to Deloitte Consulting L.P. and related entities. Deloitte Consulting is an equal 
opportunity firm. We recruit, employ, train, compensate, and promote without regard to race, religion, creed color, national origin, age, gender, sexual 
orientation, marital status, disability, veteran status or any other basis protected by applicable federal, state or local law.
innEEntera imCoducer am MmsJ vmslE
FORTUNE
more focused on
the e-Business strategies of tomorrow.
Few have followed the e-Revolutlon more closely, or been as enthusiastic in hastening it forward 
as Deloitte Consulting. If you're looking for the opportunity to help shape

---------------------------------------------------

We gave Jessie the chance to taiior his work assignments to his own individual interests. As it turns out, he 
most interested in changing the world.
At Ford Motor Company, Jessie’s ideas have helped develop advanced powertrains for next 
automobiles. He has been actively involved with creating alternative fuel vehicles. And most recently, Jessie 
been exploring the possibilities of electric and hybrid vehicles.
At Ford Motor Company, we’re committed to building dramatically cleaner and more fuel-efficient 
worldwide. That’s why we’re so committed to people like Jessie. If you’re ready to change the world, we’re ready 
talk about your future with Ford Motor Company.
We’re looking for Summer interns, Bachelor’s and Master’s candidates in Mechanical Engineering, Electrical & 
Computer Engineering, Information systems and Business Administration. We’ll be on campus for the TOC (Sept. 
21st), BOC (Sept. 22nd) and GSIA (Oct. 11th) Career fairs, so be sure to stop by our booth, or send us your resume 
through JobTrak.
Visit our website at mycareer.ford.com. By choice, we are an Equal Opportunity Employer committed to a 
culturally diverse workforce.
voLvo Q mazna H ycuimyuMercury @ jaguaiASTON MARTIN

---------------------------------------------------

National Instruments, a world leader in computer-based 
measurement and automation for 24 years, is defining 
the way engineers and scientists use PCs to monitor and 
understand the world around us. We're building the future 
here in Austin, Texas, and we want you on our team!
CIT and MCS Students: 
Come visit us at Booth 6 
on Thursday 21 Sept.
THE TARTAN • SEPTEMBER IS. 2000
Dozen? of bands, Steel City culture vanquish boredom
PITTSBURGH, from page DIO
squat. And don’t forget, chicks dig field
goals.
By now, I’m assuming th£t you have at 
least e mild knowledge of Pittsburgh. But 
if know absolutely nothing about the cityfs 
culture beyond Panther Hollow Inn and 
the Myron Cope, it would be in your best 
interests to take the Pittsburgh Culture 
Crawl 2000 this Wednesday. Between'5 
and 9:15 pm, you’ll see iiiore Pittsburgh 
cultural events than you ever knew exist­
ed. Five bucks is all you need to cover 
Admission fees to museums, food, drinks, 
and e performance of the University of 
oJcc,$Hn-d), Turn of the Screw. For pickets, 
inquire at the University /Center 
BrSunhecJur Desk. ; j
Just so you know, jthe /Oakland 
yiiuncHrJcJP, Conference Has been can­
celed. If you still want that job at The 
Original, Tela Ropa, or the new Kentucky 
Fried Taco Hut, you’ll have to visit those 
vendors in person. However, if you’re 
looking for a real job, mark your appoint­
ment books for the Technical 
Opportunities Conference and 
Business Opportunities Conference 
on Thursday and Friday respectively in the 
University Center. Even if you’re not look­
ing for a job, you can still go and manage 
to piss off a lot of seniors by using up valu­
able breathing air and taking all the free 
stuff. And, believe me, there will $P plenty 
of carbon dioxide and tons of freebies as a 
record number of companies is PxiPgcPs 
to attend the job fairs.
It won’t be long before going to the Post-
Gazette Pavilion is an invitation to have 
you experience some cold Pittsburgh 
weather one-on-one. If you would like to 
see a concert there before it’s way too 
cold, go to the B94 Summer Stretch 
this Friday at 5 pm. I have no clue as to 
why it’s called “B94” or “Summer” or even 
“Stretch” for that matter. (That’s a matter 
for “Coffee Talk’s” Linda Richmond.) But 
at least you’ll see Smash Mouth, Third 
Eye Blind, Macy Gray, Fastball,
will be held.
Did the “Dancing Homer” episode of The 
Simpsons pique your interest in the world 
of combining dancing and sports? 
Continue to satisfy that void in your life 
with “MOMIX in Baseball”, a wild mix 
of dance and America’s national pastime. 
With performances this Friday and 
Saturday at 8 pm at the Byham Theater, 
the Pittsburgh Dance Council presents a 
comedic look at the history and lore of
“Did the ‘Dancing Homer’ episode of The 
Simpsons pique your interest in the world of 
combining dancing and sports? Continue to 
satisfy that void in your life with ‘MOMIX in 
Baseball,’ a wild mix of dance and baseball.”
Baha Men, Splender, The Corrs, and
more. With lawn tickets starting at $14.95, 
you can’t possibly go wrong at $2.14 a 
band.
If you hate how the architectures of the 
University Center, Donner House, Warner 
Hall, Scaife Hall, and Hunt Library clash, 
it would be worthwhile to see some exam- 
. pies of places where cross-processed land­
scapes actually work. Now through 
October 22 at the Melwood Photography 
Gallery in Oakland, you can view 
“Another Earth,” a William D. Wade 
exhibit featuring some plain-looking 
scenes that have been given a bizarre 
twist. This Friday, the opening reception
baseball. After the show, Pirate outfielder 
Brian Giles will be on hand to autograph 
all of your tutus and ballet shoes. Just kid­
ding.
Finally, what better way to close out the 
weekend than to listen to the latest and 
the greatest acts of Pittsburgh rock? This 
Sunday, Roland’s Iron Landing in the Strip 
District will be hosting some of the finest 
local bands the city has to offer when the 
Chronic Illness Project presents Project 
Rock 2000. Be on hand at 5:30 pm to 
witness The Sleeping Giants, Cheryl 
Ann Hawk, The Distractions, and 
Grapevine. Tickets are $6 in advance 
and $8 at the door.
Last year's Business Opportunities Conference attracted a huge crowd that had students and 
employers struggling for room. This year, an even larger amount of companies are coming.
We lose some of our best patients each year . . . 
to graduation!
Welcome 
All 
Students!
New Patient SpecialDIVERSITY
John W. Hart, D.D.S.
TEETH CLEANING*
*An $80 Value. Includes basic cleaning, bitewing x-rays, 
gum evaluation, exam, and consultation. New Patients only. Addt'l cleaning may be required in the presence of gum disease.681-8011
10% Courtesy for CMU Students and Faculty 
200 N. Craig Street • Take the CMU shuttle to our front door!
Depression is a serious threat 
to anyone that has a brain.
Depression is a suppression of brain activity that can strike anyone. It can make life unbearable. L/^V T RE AT £ D 
but it is also readily, medically treatable. And that’s something you should always keep in mind. ^g jT^f% £ $ $
Public Service message from SAWE (Suicide Awarenoss'A/oices oi Education)http://www.save.org
Di$co]/Qft;iE Pqyfc OInnovate
Put some power behind your ideas. At MIT 
Lincoln Laboratory, your research and ideas 
will be transferred directly into the develop­
ment of leading edge, real-world applications, 
including air defense, space surveillance, com­
munications and air traffic control systems.
If you're looking for a way to power up your 
career, please forward a cover letter 
,, and scannable resume to: 
ifc resume@ll.mlt.edu 
Fax: (781)981-2011; 
or mail to: Human Resources, 
MIT Lincoln Laboratory,
CN00, 244 Wood Street, 
Lexington, MA 02420-9108. 
M/F/D/V.
An Equal Opportunity 
Employer, US Citizenship 
, is required.
Please visit our website or Career 
Services for time, location and date of 
our Informational session and date of 
Interviews for Fall 2000
If you are pursuing a degree in:
• Electrical Engineering
• Physics
• Computer Science
• Mathematics
» Mechanical Engineering
• Aeronautics/Astronautics
maybe you have the power to succeed at:
LINCOLN LABORATORY
naddaCHUduTTd ÎsdTlTUTu OP TuCHsO|OGy
PIZZA PARMA
7’P+pP Wuc 8uHn Luh+, FPgJiP"
412-441-6600
217 South Highland Ave., SHADYSIDE PLAZA
• Pizza & Gourmet Pizza
• Soup & Salads
• Hoagies
• Pasta Dinners
• Desserts/Beverages
• Wings
• Appetizers
• Gyro
• Calzones
• Wedges
+ Credit Cards & Personal Checks Accepted 
+ Fresh Dough Daily & Fresh Veggies 
+ Free Delivery - Minimum $6 order 
+Store Hours: Sun.-Thurs. llam-lam 
Fri. & Sat. 1 1am-2am
¦ URGE 16" 12 CUT 1 
j 1 -2 LTR. POP 
i & YOUR CHOICE OF i 
j 1 DOZEN WINGS OR j 
i 1 WHOLE HOAGIE i
¡$12.99 + taxj
I Not valid with any other offers I
2 LARGE j
116" pizzas:
¡$10.99+taxj
Toppings are extra I
Not valid with any other offers 1
30
’BjW.
& ORDER OF 
BREADSTICKS 
$10.99 +tax
Not valid with any other offers
NATIONAL Ï* INSTRUMENTS'
www.ni.com/cmu
inn
BEST COMPANIES TO 'AXJRK FORixjyjFORTUNE
2000
¦Ip'Sr.« v•Mag.If 2$iw •
\4

---------------------------------------------------

OU LA LÀ!
Yum Yum! Comics taste good and are good for you. 
too. High in vitamins and laughs. So take some time 
each week to check out this page for your dossage of comic 
goodness. Don’t forget that if you want to get your comics 
published contact THE TARTAN at 268-2111, and ask 
for Justin. I am so cool and look forward to talking with 
.you soon. Ou la la and ha ha ha.
Di/bert
by Scott Adams
I HID THE EMER­
GENCY FLASHLIGHTS 
SO NO ONE CAN 
PLAY WITH THEM.
WHO PLAYS WITH 
FLASHLIGHTS?
THAT'S THE DUMBEST 
THING I'VE EVER 
HEARD, r
&vTEMFTK MVBA RDFD bBFM&TyF
ASOK, YOU HAVE 
A BAD CASE OF 
E-MAIL MONKEY- 
, ON-THE-BACK.
THE ONLY CURE 
IS TO DEACTIVATE 
YOUR INTERNET 
CONNECTION
LOOKS LIKE 
SOMEONE HAS AN 
E-MAIL MONKEY 
ON HISI CAN QUIT 
WHENEVER 
I WANT!
\
I USED TO HAVE AN 
E-MAIL MONKEY ON 
MY BACK, BUT I 
I WENT COLD TURKEY. ------------—---------------------
I STILL DO A 
LITTLE CHATTING 
BUT THAT'S NOT 
ADDICTIVE.
LifeiNilAÉLLQZQoo
(Q$lOE-h)
The Harder They Are The Farder They Chew
Cheese-O-Rama
$tK ­ehP, aPrrPt 4PheJ$ 9ifPrrPt(ersnPwDurHDPsH3
cheese-o-ramapanorama
I left .60 lbs of mild cheddar in the trunk 
to my friends car, which is green and also 
has a totally green interior, who's idea 
was that. When I found my cheese days 
later it was a bright orange and had leaked 
a puddle of orange grease, sloshing in the 
bag like the last few drops of an ice pop.
The first week of decay was uneventful, 
the cheese bled a few more drops 
of orange grease...nothing else, it got 
more malleable. I made an attempt at 
cheese sculpture. The fun finally began 
when I was dared to eat the block of 
cheese whole, in 5 minutes, for $0.75.
I considered refrigerating it and eating 
it in sandwiches as usual, but my 
friends talked me out of it. I didn't have 
the heart to just throw away $2.39 
worth of cheese, so I’ve been observing 
it’s decay like a scientist and scanning 
the results. Your add here 1-800-mix-alot.
I held back the chunks valiantly, and 
staggered down the hall foaming orange 
grease at the mouth. I had vicious 
hallucinations of satanic cult cheese nip 
worshiping anorexic models. I lost my 
$0.75 in a broken soda machine and woke 
up 17 hours later on my studio desk.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN • SEPTEMBER 18, 2000
The Phatmaster
http://phat.res.cmu.edu/phatmaster/
" At ^
ìlio cir.@g.n.<5.re#
lclaiflf@andrew.cmu.edu
Over the Hedge
by Michael Fry & T. Leivis
I’MI’VErTHINKING OF GOING OUT FOR
GOTGAME.1 RIGHT. WHAT’S ® YOUR s J ^ HANDICAP? o
A
/1
THETGm^^^^
i/2SWr 1
¡Sii
1noni \1
1
*
RJ, YOU?/ THE TOUR?/ NO NAY YOU CAN HOLD UP.'THE COMPETITION... THE PRESSURE...THE GRUELING PACE...
NO SUPBRZALLS?!!
i-
YEAH, HE WHAT CANGIVES A TIGERTALK AND TEACH MESOME FREE AB.OUTLESSONS. THE GAMETHAT I 1 DON’T\ ALREADYKNOW?
\tlGER NOOPS PUTS ON A GOLF am AT THE EL RANCHO CAMELOT CLUB-HOUSE...
...IT'S THE ONL Y £4/V£WHERE YOU CALL PENALTIES ON YOURSELF.
AS SOB3Y JONES SAID 
it ,ct OF JACK NICKLAUS..."‘HE PLAYS A GAMEo ferafaena rac mcprOF LIS ARE NOT 1 FAMILIAR.' 2
JWYi 
<aaeiM8L-|
setcm fiikp kgrp if l tiudam AT THE EL RANCHO CAMELOT CLUBHOUSE...
...WITH THAT KRYPTONITEI KEEP ON ME SOMEWHERE.
Routine JobBy Yang Cai ycai@cmu.edu
THE QflOD
som; the bap jtfiw-s-
TH£ ORMLS
DEi>ucreP ir 
&ur paycheck i
t

---------------------------------------------------

Mechanical Engineering 
Electrical Engineering
Software Engineering 
Interns & Permanent
ESI - A WORLD OF OPPORTUNITIES
Technical Opportunités
Making The Products 
You Use Possible
ESI Information Session 
•. Thursday, 9/21 
I * See Tartan Track for Details
Refreshments Served!
Raffle for Handspring Visor!
Join a Worldwide Leader!
Electro Scientific Industries (ESI) is a worldwide leader in high-technology 
production equipment for the global electronics market. Our sophisticated 
products are used to make the parts inside PCs, TVs, VCRs, cell phones, 
pagers, and other consumer electronics. With over 1,400 employees located 
around the world, ESI has a reputation for innovative solutions and exceptional 
service. If you're interested in working with the latest technologies that drive 
the future of the electronics industry, look to ESI.
Be sure to check the Tartan Track, or visit our booth for details on the ESI 
information session, where you can learn more about ESI, have some 
refreshments, and enroll to win a Handspring Visor!
www.esi.com
ti

---------------------------------------------------

CREDIT FIRST SUISSE BOSTONDonaldson, Lufkin & fernette®
IF CHANGE IS THE NEW CONSTANT, 
WHAT IS THE NEW CHANGE?
www.csfb.com
www.dlj.com
In a world that changes by the hour, the challenge is to lead change yourself. Come 
learn about Credit Suisse First Boston and Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette and what this 
high-impact combination means for you.
PLEASE VISIT OUR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY BOOTH 
AT THE BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES CONFERENCE 
SEPTEMBER 22ND, 9:30AM TO 4:30PM 
AT THE UNIVERSITY CENTER
MLoy’MFBjW &Rvj W MT
62III &nPsJc .HJ,,P zJn,c Eu,cur &uniD vmm nJ-dc, nP,PnpPsD

---------------------------------------------------

Calendar
l8 September 2000THE TARTANPage hBo
CMU presents companies and cheesy movies guru
DO PITTSBURGH!
by Greg Nofi
Entertainment Editor
Did you know that 15 years ago today, 
David Letterman unleashed his first Top Ten 
List List with “Top Ten Things That Almost 
Rhyme with Peas”? Well, here’s a list of the 
“Top Ten Things To Do In Pittsburgh this 
Week.” The major difference is that this list 
does not contain corny animations or those 
annoying Paul Shaffer jingles. More details 
on these events can be found in The Tartan 
Calendar.
Leading off, if you enjoy science fiction 
and comical, obscure popular culture refer­
ences then you must love Mystery Science 
Theater 3000. And if you love Mystery 
Science Theater 3000, then you must love 
Michael J. Nelson, the head writer, direc­
tor, musician, and leading human actor for 
the hilarious television show. You won’t 
want to miss Nelson’s lecture and booksign- 
ing in McConomy Auditorium tonight at 7 
pm. Admission is free for CMU humans 
(sorry, Xavier, Tom Servo and Crow T. 
Robot).
Tonight also marks a performance of The 
The. Man, this band is as old as me. Their
trippy yet angst-ridden sound has attracted 
a devoted following over the past 21 years. 
But their coolest fan has to be skateboarding 
god Tony Hawk who would always play 
their music while practicing. You can listen 
to them tonight at the Metropol in the Strip 
District.
Do you find MW’s new Lyricist Lounge 
Show to be as unfunny as Bubba Smith’s 
antics in Police Academy 6? That’s what I 
thought. Don’t give up complete hope on 
variety shows yet. Give The Infectious 
Variety Show a try this Tuesday at The 
Beehive in Oakland. For just $5, you will get 
a showcase of local artists, featuring music, 
spoken word, film, and performance art. 
The show begins at 7:30 pm.
If you prefer a more athletic type of live 
event, be sure to be there for a live taping of 
one of Pittsburgh’s more popular players. 
No, I’m not talking about goofy retired cen- 
terfielder Andy Van Slyke. I’m referring to 
“The Bus.” A live taping of The Jerome 
Bettis Show is held every Wednesday at 
8:30 pm at the Metropol in the Strip 
District. This week’s guest is the Steelers 
kicking team, which appears to contain the 
only players on the team that aren’t doing 
See PITTSBURGH, page 05
ioday
tiifisrlay,1Q_
guHncP,t uS ­udr aerP
Home Run! The Pittsburgh Dance Council presents "MOMIX in 
Baseball" this Friday and Saturday at the Byham Theater.
i x w---------------------------------
Michael J. Nelson of Mystery Science 
Theater 3000. 7 pm at McConomy
Auditorium, University Center. Tickets aré 
free and available at the Information Desk.
“The Power of Living Water.” 4:30 to 
6:30 pm in the Giant Eagle Auditorium, 
Baker Hall. A University Lecture by Betsy 
Damon, founder and director of “Keepers of 
the Waters,” a non-profit organization that 
brings together art, science and. community 
goals to create aesthetic and multi-functional 
sustainable systems.
The The plus Joseph Arthur. 7:30 at 
Metropol. Admission: $18. For more informa­
tion call (412) 276-8300 or see www.elkocon- 
certs.com.
Wednesday, 9/20 friday, 9/22
Study Abroad Inf ormation Session. 5
to 6:30 pm in the McKenna, Peter, Wright 
Room, University Center. Refreshments will 
be served. For more information, contact Eva 
Mergner, Study Abroad and Exchange 
Advisor, em43@andrew.cmu.edu.
The Infectious Variety Show, featuring 
local musicians, poets, filmmakers and per­
formance art. 7:30 pm at The Beehive, 
Oakland. Cover: $5. 18+ show. A showcase 
of local artists performing music, spoken 
word, film, and performance art. For more 
information, email tanya@emayhem.com or 
visit www.emayhem.com.
The Jazz June, The Great Eastern, 
and Teddy Duchamp1 s Army. 7 pm at the
Mr. Roboto Project. Admission is $5.
Goldfinger and Dynamite Hack. 8 pm
at Club Laga, Oakland. Admission is $15 in 
advance, $17 at the door.
Graduate Bible Studies. 5:00 pm in 
the Class of ‘87 Room, University Center. For 
more information or questions, call or write 
David Laughlin at 268-2706 or 
dl0p@ece.cmu.edu.
Pittsburgh Culture Crawl 2000. Meet 
in Carnegie Museum of Art turnaround, 
Oakland at 5 pm, return at 9:15 pm. Price: 
$5. See a tour of Pittsburgh museums and 
theaters. Price covers admission fees, food, 
drink, and a performance of Turn of the 
Screw.
The Jerome Bettis Show. Doors open at 
6 pm with show taping from 8 pm to 8:30 pm. 
at Metropol, Cover: $3. Strip District. Hosted 
by KDKA-TV’s Bob Pompeani,and Jerome 
Bettis. This week, the Steelers kicking team 
will be the guest.
Brown Bag Lunch: “Victim’s Rights 
Activism during the Time of 
Reaganism.” From noon to 1 pm in 
Cathedral of Learning Room 901. Given by 
Carrie Rentschler from the Department of 
Communications, University of Illinois.
thursday, 9/21
Technical Opportunities Conference.
10 am to 5 pm in University Center. For more 
information, visit www.cmu.edu/toc.
The School of Art Lecture Series. 5 pm
in McConomy Auditorium, University Center. 
Admission is free. This presentation features 
artist Annette Lawrence. For information, 
call 268-2409.
Graduate Women’s Tea. 4 pm to 6 pm
in the Danforth Lounge, University Center. 
Free pastries, t-shirts and mugs, and addi­
tional information about support networks 
for women graduate students at Carnegie 
Mellon will be available.
Salsa with Orquestra Tropical. 10pm 
at Rosebud. Admission is free. Call 261-2232 
for more information.
Chicago jazz improvisor David 
Boykin. 8 pm at the Millvale Industrial 
Theater. Tickets: $7. Opening bands: Perna & 
De Fade and Philip Gray Partnership. For 
more information, call 422-8864 or visit 
www. mit. telerama. com.
voxpopuli
official voice of opportunities
pretty bird, pretty bird
...sorry, i know it's a week late...
What makes you so good to me, chinky?
love Kevin Elster. -B
I don’t like your jerk-off name, I don't 
like your jerk-off face, I don’t like your 
jerk-off attitude, and I don't like you!
MEEEEEEEEEEEP!
mummy, he’s rone rotten!
jClli nt onpl r eddc sd
THE WHAT’S DIS NON...
mfc sgl cdsgv
lCnia Smwj 
hy bFu IhP’Tk
y er Mom!
HUNGRY JACK: Lighter and Fluffier
L.V.’s first kiss.
Sorry I didn't get her flowers
muuf ec ht $e,P$emm geiq sur)c tuH 9H,c 
mupP ht $e,P$emm geiG J,r+c Jc e inPcct 
$e,P$emm geiG B mJfP cu gecgd hurfPt, 
wPenJr- ht $e,P$emm geiD
triple!!!
Vox Populi is a forum open to the entire campus community! To 
submit a vox, simply email it to tartan@andrew.cmu.edu, send it 
to The Tartan, University Center, Box 17 via campus mail, or drop 
it in the Vox Populi drop box on the slick-looking Tartan server. 
The comments in this box do not reflect the views of The Tartan 
or anybody in general. It is basically a bunch of gibberish, and if 
anything sounds remotely real or interesting, then you're reading 
way too much into it.
Business Opportunities Conference.
9:30 am to 4:30 pm in the University Center. 
Only seniors may participate from 9:30 am to
11 am. For more information, visit 
www.cmu.edu/boc.
Cultural Fair. From 11 am to 2 pm in the 
University Center. Meet representatives from 
Pittsburgh Cultural Art Organizations. See 
what’s going on in the Pittsburgh Arts scene.
The B94 Summer Stretch. 5 pm at Post- 
Gazette Pavilion, Burgettstown. Lawn tickets 
from $14.95. Bands include Smash Mouth, 
Third Eye Blind, Macy Gray, Fastball, Baha 
Men, Splender, and The Corrs.
"Another Earth” opening reception.
Melwood Photography Gallery, Oakland. The 
exhibit, featuring William D. Wade’s cross­
processed landscapes, runs through October 
22. For more information, 681-5449.
Eternal Breasts. 8 pm at the Carnegie 
Museum of Art. Admission is $5 for students, 
$6 otherwise. For more information visit the 
Carnegie Museum of Art website at 
www.cmoa.org.
Julien Donkey-Boy. 7 pm at the Andy 
Warhol Museum. The film is part of the 
month-long Good Fridays program, which 
takes place from 5 pm to 10 pm. For more 
information, visit www.warhol.org.
Elliott, The Weakerthans, World B, 
and Hedra. 7 pm at Mr. Roboto Project. 
Admission: $5.
Saturday, 9/23
DRI. 8 pm at the Beehive, Oakland. 
Admission: $11. For tickets call 276-8300 or 
visit www.ticketweb.com. For more informa­
tion visit www.elkoconcerts.com.
Square and Contra Dance. 6:30 pm to 
9:30 pm in the Old Skibo Gym. Beginners 
welcome. Price: $3. Marlin Whitaker will be 
calling the dance to the live, hot, Celtic Irish 
music of the Lackawanna Longnecks, with 
Frank Falvo on fiddle, Mark Tamsula on 
banjo, Mike Reing on guitar, and Amy 
DeFerrari on stand-up bass.
A-set, The Chickens, and Enon. 7 pm
Mr. Roboto Project. Admission: $5.
Rummage Sale. From 9 am to 4 pm at 
317 South Pacific Avenue, Bloomfield. 
Sponsored by and proceeds for Women’s 
Resource Center in Pittsburgh. For donations 
or volunteers, call 731-1147. For information, 
call 243-0413.
Weston, Midtown, and Hot Rod 
Circuit. 7 pm at Club Laga. Admission: $8 in 
advance, $10 at the door.
Do you have an event you would 
like to publicize in The Tartan 
Calendar? It’s free! 
Send it to 
tartan@andrew. emu. edu.
Sunday, 9/24
Project Rock 2000. 5:30 pm at Roland’s 
Iron Landing, Strip District. Tickets: $6 in 
advance, $8 at the door. Local bands perfor- 
maning include The Sleeping Giants, Cheryl 
Ann Hawk, The Distractions, and Grapevine.
Fall Leadership Workshop. From 11:30 
am to 5 pm in the University Center. 
Registraction materials are available through 
Student Activities, Student Life, and the 
Office of the Dean of Student Affairs.
Roman Catholic Mass takes place at 
10:30 am and 8 pm in the Mellon Auditorium, 
Posner Hall. It also takes place daily at 12:30 
pm in the University Center chapel. For more 
information, contact the Roman Catholic 
Newman Center at 681-3181.
The Pittsburgh Compline Choir. 8:30 
pm at Heinz Memorial Chapel, University of 
Pittsburgh. This week’s performance will fea­
ture organist Judith P. Beswick of the The 
Presbyterian Church, Sewickley.
ongoing
MOMIX in Baseball. This Friday and 
Saturday at 8 pm in the Byham Theater, 
Downtown. This combination of sound bites,, 
music, and choreography conveying baseball 
myth, legend, and nostalgia is presented by 
the Pittsburgh Dance Council. Call 456-6666 
for more information and tickets.
".FusionI Artists in a Research 
Setting.” Through September 29. Open from 
Tbesday through Sunday from 11:30 am to 5 
pm at the Regina Gouger Miller Gallery, 
Purnell Center for the Arts. Admission is free. 
This display is organized by the STUDIO for 
Creative Inquiry and Robert Atkins, Microsoft 
Research Fellow.
Hispanic Heritage Month. Through 
September 30 at the University Center Art 
Gallery. For more information and gallery 
hours, call 268-8704 or send an email to 
bwilson@andrew.cmu.edu.
“The Turn of the Screw.” From 
September 20 through October 8 at Henry 
Heymann Theatre, University of Pittsburgh. 
For more information and tickets, call 624- 
PLAY.
Karl Mullen and friends. This Friday 
and Saturday at 9 pm in Club Cafe, South Side. 
Tickets: $7. Call Club Café at 431-4950 for 
ticket reservations and information.
The 2000 Pittsburgh Biennial. Through 
November 5 at the Pittsburgh Center for the 
Arts. Admission: $3 for adults, $2 for students 
and seniors, and free for members. Call 361- 
0873 for more information.
The Ballad of Ramblin’ Jack. Opening 
on September 22 at The Harris Theater, 809 
Liberty Avenue, Downtown. For admission 
prices and showtimes, call 682-4111 or visit 
www.pghfilmmakers. org.
Trixie. Showing through September 28 at 
The Regent Square, 1035 South Braddock 
Avenue, Edgewood. For admission prices and 
showtimes, call 682-4111 or visit www.pgh- 
filmmakers.org.
The Pittsburgh New Works Festival.
Thursday (8 pm), Friday (8 pm), Saturday (6 
and 9 pm), and Sunday (4 and 7 pm) at the 
Hamburg Studio Theatre, South Side. Tickets: 
$7. This week’s plays: Transitional Girl, The 
Exchange, and A Reasonable First Step. For 
more information, call 881-6888.
“Loaded.” Through September 28 at the 
Center Art Gallery, 4638 Center Avenue. This 
is a Sun Crumbs sponsored group exhibit.
uThe Italian Influence:
Contemporary Glass.” Through October 
14 at the Wood Street Galleries, 601 Wood 
Street, Downtown. For more information, call 
471-5605.
The ceramic work of Leroy Johnson.
Through October 7 at the Society for 
Contemporary Crafts, One Mellon Center 
Gallery. For more information, visit 
www. contemporarycraft. org.
Monuments, Millionaires, and 
Memories: A Walking Tour of The 
Homewood Cemetery. Until November 5. 
Tours on Wednesdays from 10 am to 11:30 am; 
Sundays from 2:00 pm to 3:30 pm; and the 
first and third Saturdays of each month from 
10 am to 11:30 am. Meet at the Homewood 
Cemetery gates at Dallas Avenue. Admission: 
$6 per person. Reservations and prepayment 
are required and can be made by calling 371- 
0600.
