Volume 98, Issue 15www.thetartan.org2 February 2004
Food bites back, students hospitalized
Seven Carnegie Mellon students of the 34 who suffered from a recent illness visited UPMC Presbyterian Thursday night. The 
Allegheny County Health Department is currently investigating to find the source of the illness.
by Christina Kung
Assistant News Editor
Seven students were sent to the 
University of Pittsburgh Medical 
Center last Thursday night for sus­
pected food poisoning. Another 22 
people reported to Health Services for 
related cases the following Friday 
morning and afternoon. In addition, 
Associated Press mentioned last night 
that six more cases had been report­
ed.
This total of 34 students and one 
staff member had mostly the same 
complaints, which included nausea, 
vomiting, diarrhea, fever, and weak­
ness.
The large number of cases has gen­
erated concern among the students, 
staff, and faculty at Carnegie Mellon 
over the quality of food being served 
on campus, specifically within the 
dining areas of the University Center. 
Peter Nelson, a first-year in CIT, was 
one of the victims of suspected con­
taminated food at Schatz Dining 
Hall.
“For lunch on Thursday I ate at the 
Underground and then for dinner I 
ate at Schatz. The chicken at Schatz 
tasted a bit off, but I attributed that to 
just being school food. Within half an 
hour I started to feel queasy and with­
in two hours I was throwing up and 
having diarrhea,” said Nelson. Out of 
frustration, he had posted on 
cmu.misc.market about the illnesses 
on Friday morning and received 14
responses that same night.
“When I returned from the hospital 
I found two of my friends in a similar 
condition that I had been in earlier 
that night. One reason I posted to 
misc.market was to inform the cam­
pus community of what was happen­
ing.”
To address the widespread anxiety 
on campus, Anita Barkin, director of 
University Health Services, sent an 
official communication via e-mail to 
all students, staff, and faculty.
She stated that while there is no 
certain pattern to the origins of these 
poisonings, the Allegheny County 
Health Department is continuing its 
investigation to find the source of the 
illness.
“We [Carnegie Mellon] have not 
had an outbreak of food-related gas­
trointestinal disease in probably ten 
years,” Barkin said. Throughout the 
years, Health Services has received 
numerous reports of gastroenteritis 
from its patients. However, the mag­
nitude of clustered cases over the past 
few days has been atypical with no 
positive explanation. Gastroenteritis 
is the irritation and inflammation of 
the digestive tract that is often caused 
by food poisoning.
After questioning a few of the 
patients, UPMC and Health Services 
found no common food history or 
locations that could affirm that all 
these cases were the result of food 
poisoning. Since the majority of the
See ILLNESS, page A4
Students show off
talents at SCS Day
by John Davin
Contributing Editor
The second annual SCS Day took 
place last Saturday in the University 
Center, celebrating the diverse talents 
and pastimes of students and faculty 
in the School of Computer Science. 
The day was packed with events from 
2 pm to 10 pm, including a talent 
show, a chess tournament, and work­
shops in swing dance, karate, yoga, 
and origami.
There was also a magic workshop 
in which Steven Rudich, a computer 
science professor, taught some of the 
tricks that he performs during class 
lectures.
A workshop on Dance Dance 
Revolution (DDR) also proved to be 
popular. The art and photography 
exhibit in the Connan Room show­
cased the wide variety of art that SCS 
members have produced.
The highlight of the evening was 
the SCS talent show. There were 
many musical groups, including one 
that combined the use of Eastern and 
Western drums. Ryan Necas, a sopho­
more who leads a martial arts order 
called the Guardians, returned this 
year to perform a martial arts demon­
stration.
The talent show is often a favorite 
among students and faculty attending 
SCS Day. The show, held in Rangos 
Ballroom, also coincided with the 
presentation of employee recognition 
awards for SCS staff. James Morris, 
the dean of SCS, served as the master 
of ceremonies.
“I really like the talent show 
because it’s sort of how everyone 
comes together,” said Agata Bugaj, a
computer science senior who helped 
organize SCS Day.
Brian “PiMaster” Thompson, a 
sophomore computer science major 
who amazed the audience last year by 
reciting 1024 digits of the number pi, 
made an appearance again this year. 
Thompson once again recited from 
memory 1024 digits of pi while jug­
gling.
“When I came across a number that 
was just as irrational as I was, we just 
hit it right off,” said Thompson about 
his love of pi.
SCS Day 2004 received a large 
number of donations from local busi­
nesses and individuals. There were a 
total of 21 sponsors, including Kiva 
Han and Starbucks, which each 
donated approximately equal 
amounts in gift certificates. Kiva Han 
gift certificates were presented to all 
of the SCS Day organizers, and 
Starbucks certificates were given to 
the talent show participants. This 
competition between the Craig Street 
coffee shops elicited chuckles from 
the audience.
Students were encouraged to take 
photos throughout the day, and sub­
mit them to the photo competition. 
The best photos will be selected from 
among those submitted by March 1 
and the winner will receive a gift cer­
tificate for dinner at the Holiday Inn 
Select.
The champion of the chess compe­
tition was Ryan Milisits, a 17-year-old 
senior at Taylor Allderdice High 
School in Squirrel Hill. He won all 
four of his games, and later played 
and won three simultaneous games as 
a demonstration.
See SCS, page A4
m
Kevin Chang/Science & Technology Editor
Bon Appétit
Xian Huay (left), Scella Hsu, Hye-Kyung Yang, Sae-Mi Lee, Dianne Chia, and Deniz Secilmis dig in at the 
Singaporian Food Festival last night.
Juniors to add 
co-ed sorority 
to Greek life
by Jenny Kim
Junior Staffwriter
Juniors Stephanie Broff and 
Melissa N. Eliot are planning to 
organize the first co-ed sorority in the 
history of Carnegie Mellon University 
greek life. Currently, Carnegie Mellon 
has a co-ed fraternity that is specifi­
cally geared toward business majors.
The co-founders point out that it is 
a co-ed sorority instead of a co-ed fra­
ternity because they are the ones who 
founded it and since they are both 
females, they decided to take on a dif­
ferent approach.
Broff and Eliot both regret that 
they did not make their decision early 
enough to present their ideas at the 
Student Activities Fair. They hope to 
have things set up and ready by next 
semester. But for now, they are plan­
ning to hold rush events where peo­
ple can converse and get to know 
each other while watching Adam 
Sandler movies.
Broff urges people to come to rush 
events so that they could get to know 
the girls and see if the co-ed sorority 
is fit for them.
The sorority will be named Alpha 
Delta Mu, chosen because the letters 
resemble the name “Adam,” referring 
to Adam Sandler, the co-founders’ 
favorite actor.
The idea for this new organization 
started when a group of friends in a 
band, which included Eliot and Broff, 
thought it would be fun to organize a 
club where people who shared com­
mon interests could relax and hang 
out.
Broff mentioned that Alpha Del 
Mu is not exclusive and that the stai 
dards are the same for both men ana 
women.
“We’re not a party sorority, 
although partying is allowed for all,” 
she said. “The guys seem to be more 
interested [in the co-ed sorority] than 
the girls and I don’t think that we’ll be 
getting extremely negative views.”
The co-founders are unsure 
whether this organization will evolve 
into a national sorority because they 
still need to devise a constitution. In 
addition, they do not plan on charg­
ing fees because they do not see 
themselves as traditional fraternities 
and sororities do.
Eliot does not foresee any problems 
that might arise from the fact that 
men and women would participate in 
the organization.
“I get along with guys more than 
girls and I doubt that there will be any 
problems involving relationships,” 
she said. She mentioned that there 
are no plans for a house soonf howev­
er, they may be holding future meet­
ings in Broff’s room at Doherty 
Apartments.
Most of the co-founders’ friends are 
interested in this new type of Greek 
life. However, one friend reacted dif­
ferently. “I don’t think I could join it 
because you may have to live with 
other men and parents can object to 
that,” said Eleanor Zimmerman, a
See SORORITY, page A4
Acting dean of Heinz School hopes to step up
Ryan Milisits (left) is seen playing a chess game versus Danny Balter, a 6-year-old 
chess enthusiast and son of a CMU professor. Milisits, a senior at Taylor Allderdice 
High School, was the winner of the SCS Day chess competition.
by James Tetlow
Staffwriter
The Heinz School of Public Policy 
and Management has had four deans 
and acting deans in the past five 
years. Today, Mark Wessel, acting 
dean of the Heinz School, gave a 
speech on why he should be the new 
dean.
“When the School needed an act­
ing dean last February, I think the 
fact that I had this broad base of 
experience with the school and its 
programs made people comfortable 
with my ability to fill in this gap,” said 
Wessel. “I also had a great mentor. 
Most of my time here, I served under 
Mark Kamlet, now the University 
provost. Much of what I might know 
about how this place functions best 
and succeeds, I learned from him. 
Those lessons helped convince me I 
could be successful as an acting 
dean.”
Mark Kamlet was dean of the 
Heinz School from 1994 until he 
became provost in mid-2000. Dr.
Linda Babcock, Wessel’s wife, was 
acting dean until 2001. “If they need 
another acting dean after me and 
want to stay in my family, they’ll have 
to get my five-year-old daughter to do 
it,” said Wessel.
Dr. Jeffrey Hunker was the most 
recent individual to fill the role as 
dean when he began work in 2001.
“Dean Hunker resigned in 
December, though he had been on 
leave shortly before then. Soon after, 
the provost formed a committee 
charged to come up with a new 
dean,” said professor Lowell J. Taylor, 
chairman of the Dean Search 
Committee.
“We were told that we could focus 
the search in any direction and bring 
a short list of potential deans. Then 
the provost and the president (with 
their advisors) would make the final 
decision.”
The members of the Dean Search 
Committee are prohibited from 
releasing the names of potential 
deans; however, the list is currently a 
very small one.
“We need someone who is a strate­
gic thinker, someone with a taste for 
innovation,” said professor Denise M. 
Rousseau, member of the Dean 
Search Committee. “We did a search 
three years ago, and the list of candi­
dates [for dean] hasn’t changed too 
much since 
then. If there is 
any consensus 
among the
committee, the 
goal is to wrap 
the search up 
by February.”
According to 
Taylor, when 
choosing a
dean, the com­
mittee “thinks of the constituents 
first.” They consider how the dean 
will interact with students, alumni, 
staff, faculty, and “the world at 
large.”
According to professor Jonathan P. 
Caulkins, member of the Dean Search 
Committee, “The short answer would 
be: the usual in any academic post.”
Wessel has been at the Heinz 
School since 1993 and has worked as
Kevi nChhCa
associate dean and senior associate 
dean in addition to having been act­
ing dean since 2003. “I’m a guy who 
thrives in organizational environ­
ments of a certain kind and the Heinz 
School in particular.... The chance to 
be acting dean, and possibly dean, I 
view as a way to extend my contribu­
tion to the continuation of this envi­
ronment and the legacy left to us by 
the people who have worked so hard 
over, so many years to create it. 
Honoring and strengthening that 
legacy as well as adapting it to the 
demands of our world today is 
extremely important to me and 
would be a wonderful professional 
challenge,” Wessel said.
According to Wessel, his five prior­
ities as dean would be supporting 
policy and management research, 
extending the Heinz School’s leader­
ship in IT management while pushing 
the intersection of IT and policy, pro­
moting Carnegie Mellon’s commit­
ment to public interest, living up to 
CMU’s ideals on diversity, and realiz­
ing the Heinz School’s potential as a 
global institute.
Founded in 1906 
Independent since 2002THE TARTAN
A night at the opera
Music and drama schools’ collaboration results in 
a hit for The City of Mahagonny.
Pillbox, 6-7
Expletive deleted
Penalties for obscenity on television are debated 
in Congress as they and the FCC censor America. 
Forum, A8
Smaller than small
CMU researchers discover new subatomic parti­
cles at Fermilab.
SciTech, A6

---------------------------------------------------

A2THE TARTAN • FEBRUARY 2, 2004
ftge ^
Volume9 8m,Is9 15osw.uo9thwaume
Weather
m5
TUESDAY
Hi 36 
Lo 23
WEDNESDAY
Hi 31 
Lo 24
m
THURSDAY
Hi 31 
Lo 29
»
FRIDAY
Hi 31 
Lo 22
SATURDAY
Hi 29 
Lo 13
Towel Mischief, 1/23/04, 3:03 
pm — A criminal mischief report 
was filed for vandalism at the fifth 
floor men’s room in Wean Hall. An 
unknown actor had broken the cov­
ers off of the towel dispenser. The 
computer services manager discov­
ered the broken dispensers at 2 pm 
and e-mailed the campus police 
about the incident. There was blood 
on the paper towels near the dis­
pensers, which might indicate that 
the actor had possibly been cut 
while vandalizing the dispensers.
Underage Consumption, 
1/24/04,1:34 am — An officer on 
fraternity patrol observed a male 
with an open can of alcohol. When 
the officer approached the male, he 
quickly turned away and threw his 
can behind a parked car. He was 
asked what he was doing and 
responded that he was tying up his 
pants. The male attempted to walk 
away, but the officer restrained him 
by placing him up against the squad 
•'Tar. After struggling with the offi­
cer, the male became cooperative 
and gave his identification. He 
would not release any information 
of where he was drinking, but that 
there were “hundreds of people 
drinking underage there.” He was 
issued a citation for underage con­
sumption of liquor. Several times he 
tried to talk his way out of the cita­
tion. He made the statement, “Is 
there anything I could do for you 
personally to make this go away?” 
He was informed that CMU has a 
zero tolerance policy for underage 
drinking.
Slipped and Fell, 1/26/04, 9:50 
pm — CMU EMS responded to a 
call from Doherty Apartments for a 
student who had slipped on the icy 
sidewalk. When they arrived, they 
found her lying on the sidewalk in 
front of A tower. The residents of 
that tower had covered her with a 
bedspread to keep her warm. She 
complained that she felt a lot of 
pain in her right ankle, but there 
was no apparent swelling present. 
City medics arrived and she was 
transported to the UPMC hospital 
after their evaluation. The sidewalk 
in front of A tower was covered with 
a film of ice.
Attempted Theft: Cyert Hall, 
1/27/04, 3:07 pm — An officer 
was dispatched to Cyert Hall room 
175 for an attempted theft report. 
The Instructional Technology
Assistant stated that an unknown 
person attempted to remove the 
hard drive from a Dell computer 
located in the Giant Eagle 
Auditorium. The computer was 
opened with the hard drive partial­
ly removed. The unknown person 
would have entered when the audi­
torium was unlocked. The auditori­
um usually stays locked on the 
weekend unless there is a special 
event. It remained open on 1/25/04 
because of Sleeping Bag Weekend.
Ex-Girlfriend, 1/28/04, 3:27 
am — A student phoned campus 
police concerning a threat made by 
his ex-girlfriend. He had just broken 
up with his girlfriend, and when she 
left his apartment, she threatened 
to sleep in the bushes that night. He 
reported that she left his apartment 
and was walking on Fifth Avenue 
towards campus. She was wearing a 
denim jacket with a red hooded 
sweatshirt underneath. The police 
conducted a search of Fifth Avenue, 
South Aiken, Walnut Street, 
Maryland Avenue, Ellsworth 
Avenue, and Morewood Avenue. 
They could not find a female match­
ing the description, so an officer 
called her dorm and spoke with her 
roommate. The roommate stated 
that the female in question had not 
returned to the room and would 
contact the police when she did. 
The officer then checked Fifth 
Avenue again and found the female
walking towards South Aiken. He 
offered to escort her anywhere she 
would like to be taken, but she 
refused. She said that she had an 
argument with her boyfriend and 
he had thrown her out of her apart­
ment. After refusing all police assis­
tance, she continued down South 
Aiken where her ex-boyfriend 
approached her. They were offered 
an escort and to speak with Student 
Life, but they both said no. There 
were no signs of physical abuse on 
either individual so the officer left. 
The female’s roommate called back 
to say that she was with her ex­
boyfriend and they appeared to be 
fine.
Theft: Cyert Hall, 1/28/04, 
5:46 pm — A woman phoned the 
University Police to report that her 
wallet and purse that had been 
stolen. She had placed these items 
behind her desk unattended in 
room 121 at 8:00 am. At noon she 
noticed her wallet was missing from 
her purse. Her wallet contained a 
Dollar Visa card, a Dollar Master 
debit card, a Dollar Bank check­
book, a Blockbuster card, a CMU 
facility ID, and $80.00. Her hus­
band immediately called to cancel 
the credit cards, and found that 
there had been a lot of activity on 
these cards. The unknown actor 
who stole the wallet had used them 
at Sam Goody’s, TJ Maxx, Game 
Stock, State Liquor Store, and an
Exxon gas station. All of these stores 
were located at Waterworks Mall.
Theft: Cyert Hall, 1/29/04, 
11:08 pm — University Police 
received a walk-in complaint from 
a Central Property Service worker. 
She stated that her purse and wallet 
were taken from the second floor of 
Cyert Hall. Between 2 am and 5 am, 
she left these items unattended. 
When she returned to the area, 
these items were gone. The purse 
contained only a wallet with a PNC 
Visa card, National City Visa card, 
Premier Bank Mastercard, 
Pennsylvania Driver’s License, and 
her medical insurance cards. The 
credit cards have already been can­
celed.
Incident tallies 1/23 to 1/30
Food Poisonings: 29 
Injuries from Ice: 7 
Lost Identifications: 3 
Suspicious Letters: 1
Page 2 compiled by 
Christina Kung
EmtvU targets all 
campuses
PHILADELPHIA (U-WIRE) — 
Music Television University will soon 
be broadcast in the dormitory rooms 
and public spaces of more than 720 
colleges nationwide, broadcasting 
short segments, syndicated MTV 
shows, and the latest trends in music 
and pop culture.
“As soon as we got [the channel], 
we had to rethink everything,” said 
general manager Stephen Friedman.
Friedman explained that mtvU 
“threw the traditional method out the 
door” and instead helped create a sta­
tion that is “more relevant to [college 
students’] lives, that takes risks, has 
fun, [and] discovers new talent.”
To help discover this new talent, 
mtvU has hired six new video jockeys 
ready to make a breakthrough on col­
lege campuses around the nation.
Thursday, to kick off the launch of 
this new channel, mtvU’s Caffeine 
Machine Tour hit University of 
Pennsylvania’s campus. Penn is one 
of 24 schools that mtvU is visiting on 
the tour.
Penn sophomore John Ingram 
looks forward to experiencing the
new music.
mtvU “might focus on the sort of 
underexposed bands that often find a 
popular audience among college stu­
dents,” Ingram said.
“We know students are on a budget 
... [so the] Caffeine Machine Tour is 
just our way to give students a free 
cup of coffee in this brutal weather, 
tell them about the new network and 
[to] check out our new contest ‘You 
Want It, You Got It’,” MTV spokesman 
David French said.
According to French, this new con­
test includes a variety of prizes 
“designed to help lighten the finan­
cial load ... from paying tuition to 
quarters for laundry and everything 
in between.”
In addition to this financial assis­
tance, mtvU will also be providing 
grants of $1500 every week to stu­
dent entrepreneurs.
However, this is just the beginning. 
Friedman explained that mtvU will 
also be offering several other chances 
to win prizes, such as a free spring 
break for one student and nine of his 
or her friends, a new car, a chance to 
be president of mtvU for a day and 
even a “totally tricked-out dorm 
room.”
Nevertheless, station officials 
acknowledge that the life of a college 
student is not just about music, but 
academics and politics as well.
Through the use of the “Choose or 
Lose Campaign,” mtvU plans to help
mobilize more than 20 million col­
lege students to vote in the upcom­
ing presidential election. The sta­
tion intends to establish on-campus 
polling booths around the country.
Either by engaging students in 
politics or through music, station 
officials hope to discover new talent 
through their involvement on cam­
pus.
Friedman believes that mtvU 
may one day discover “the next cre­
ator of Beavis and Butthead or 
[even] the next best fiction writer.”
Smoking ban 
considered
WASHINGTON (U-WIRE) — 
Georgetown University could ban 
smoking inside all on-campus resi­
dences as early as this summer after 
the Housing Advisory Council met 
Wednesday to consider a proposal 
by Interhall, a representative stu­
dent body designed to discuss 
issues of resident life.
Interhall voted at their Jan. 13 
meeting to present a proposal to the 
council that seeks to ban smoking 
both in and outside of all on-cam- 
pus residences. A proposed ban on 
smoking near entrances to campus 
buildings remains less likely to be 
enacted due to questions regarding 
enforcement.
“It was agreed that smoking 
should not be permitted inside resi­
dences. As far as banning it within 
so many feet of entrances, things 
were £ little more in the gray area,” 
Georgetown University Student 
Association President Brian 
Morgenstern (class of ’05) said. 
“There is an idea on the table, how­
ever, to move ash urns a little far­
ther away from doors to encourage 
smokers to spread out.”
The policy received unanimous 
support from the council, Ed 
Shelleby (class of ’04), Housing 
Advisory Council chair, said, and if 
passed, townhouses would remain 
the only university housing where 
students could smoke.
The proposal recommended 
implementation for fall 2004. 
University officials could enforce 
the policy earlier, however, begin­
ning at the start of the summer 
semester, if deemed appropriate.
Interhall made the proposal after 
conducting a survey last fall that 
showed the majority of students 
were against smoking within resi­
dences and apartment complexes, 
according to Matthew Wolfe (class 
of ’05), Interhall vice president for 
external affairs.
Wolfe said the survey showed 
that, from the 1252 responses, 
approximately 90 percent of 
responses were made by non- 
smokers.
Of the respondents, 93 percent 
said they favored at least some type 
of smoke-free residence halls, while 
nearly 60 percent advocated com­
pletely smoke-free residences. 
Likewise, 86 percent of respondents 
supported at least some smoke-free 
apartment complexes, and against 
the majority favoring a complete 
smoking ban.
Despite the results from 
Interhall’s survey, some students 
still oppose the measure.
“I don’t smoke in my room 
because I don’t like the smell and I 
don’t want to make my roommate 
have to put up with it, but what dif­
ference does it make how far away I 
am from my building when I smoke 
outside? It’s not like when you enter 
a building you can smell the ciga­
rettes from outside,’’said Fernanda 
Pedreira (class of’07).
Currently, smoking is allowed in 
residence halls and apartments if 
both roommates consent to smok­
ing, but there are no rules about 
smoking in front of residences 
After looking into all the issues 
and considering enforcement, a 
final decision will be made, accord­
ing to Frank.
“There were no particularly com­
pelling reasons not to approve of 
this policy because it only affects a 
small minority of people,” he said. 
“And most universities have made a 
move in a total smoking prohibition.”
World Wire
Bird flu passed 
between humans
BANGKOK, Thailand (AP) — Two 
Vietnamese sisters who died from bird flu 
may have caught the disease from their broth­
er, which would be the first known case 
involving human-to-human transmission in 
the outbreak now sweeping Asia, the World 
Health Organization (WHO) said Sunday.
The source of the sisters’ infection has not 
been identified, but investigations have failed 
to find a specific event, such as contact with 
sick poultry, or an environmental source to 
explain the cases, WHO spokesman Bob Dietz 
said in Hanoi.
"Limited human-to-human transmission 
from the brother to his sisters is one possible 
explanation,” he said.
No other cases of people catching the virus 
from other people have been suspected any­
where else.
Bird flu has killed millions of chickens in 10 
Asian countries and jumped to humans in 
Thailand and Vietnam, killing at least 10 peo­
ple.
China closed poultry markets and process­
ing factories in bird-flu-affected areas shortly 
after WHO warned that Beijing’s chances to 
contain the disease may be dwindling.
The UN Food and Agriculture Organization 
(FAO) appealed for international aid for Asian 
farmers, saying they may otherwise resist 
slaughtering their flocks, a crucial measure in 
stamping out the disease and preventing a 
human outbreak.
“We are ... concerned that mass culling is 
not taking place at a speed we consider 
absolutely necessary to contain the virus,” 
said Hans Wagner, an FAO animal production 
and health officer.
“This may be an isolated incident. These 
were very close contacts, family members,” 
she said. “We wouldn't be surprised if we saw 
more of these cases, especially where you can­
not trace the contacts back to chickens.”
The two women, ages 30 and 23, from 
Vietnam’s northern Thai Binh province 
became sick after attending their brother's 
wedding reception. Their 31-year-old brother 
died shortly afterward but his body was cre­
mated, so no samples were available to deter­
mine whether he had bird flu.
The sisters died Jan. 23. Their sister-in-law 
also was hospitalized with an unidentified 
respiratory illness but she recovered.
Saddam answers with 
useful information
BAGHDAD, Iraq (AP) — The United States 
has used information gained during interro­
gations of Saddam Hussein to help round up 
insurgents and identify false leads, a senior 
military official said Sunday.
American military officials believe about 
14 cells of Saddam loyalists are operating in 
Iraq’s capital, said the official, who spoke on 
condition of anonymity. There are about 250 
to 300 “hard core” insurgents in those cells, 
the official said.
Documents found with the ousted Iraqi 
president and information gleaned during 
interrogations have helped American troops 
disrupt those cells and track their finances, 
the official said. He would not say what infor­
mation Saddam might have given his 
American interrogators.
U.S. troops captured Saddam on Dec. 13. 
Officials have said previously that the docu­
ments were helpful, but Sunday’s statement 
was the first indication that Saddam’s interro­
gations were bearing fruit.
On the military front, commanders of the 
Army’s 1st Armored Division said they plan to 
cut the number of bases in Baghdad from 26 
to eight by the time the 1st Cavalry Division 
takes over responsibility for the city.
The pullback is part of a strategy to allow 
Iraq’s fledgeling police and civil defense 
forces to take over responsibility for security 
in Baghdad, said Brig. Gen. Martin Dempsey, 
the 1st Armored Division’s commander.
“There’s a point of diminishing consent for 
what we’re doing,” said Dempsey’s second-in- 
command, Brig. Gen. Mark Hertling. “Iraqis 
like the security, they appreciate the partner­
ship, but I don’t think many of them want us 
there all the time. They want their security 
forces taking over.”
The 1st Cavalry already has sent some 
intelligence specialists and other units to 
Baghdad, and troops from the two divisions 
will spend at least two weeks working togeth­
er before the 1st Armored Division troops 
leave, he said.
NationWire
School-ordered STD tests 
case settled
NEW YORK (AP) — On January 31, the city 
settled a federal lawsuit filed by five female 
students who were forced to undergo tests for 
pregnancy and sexually transmitted diseases 
after they skipped school to attend a “hooky 
party” where there was sexual activity.
School policy regarding medical tests for 
students would also be revised under the set­
tlement, the New York Times reported Sunday. 
The amount the girls would be paid was not 
disclosed.
The lawsuit was filed by the New York Civil 
Liberties Union after the eighth-grade girls cut 
school last April to attend the party.
When they returned to school the next day, 
they were called to the principal’s office and 
told they had to be tested for pregnancy, HIV, 
and other sexually transmitted diseases, 
according to the lawsuit. They were told they 
could not return to school without a doctor’s 
note that included the test results.
The lawsuit claimed the forced tests violat­
ed the students’ privacy and their right to 
attend school.
Under new guidelines, school officials can­
not order such tests or require students to say 
whether they are pregnant or have a disease, 
the Times reported.
Flights canceled amid 
al Qaeda worries
WASHINGTON (AP) — Six U.S.-bound 
flights from England, Scotland and France 
have been canceled because of security con­
cerns. The U.S. government said it had fresh 
indications of al Qaeda’s continued interest in 
targeting commercial planes flying to the 
United States.
U.S. officials have been concerned for some 
time that al Qaeda wants to use chemical, bio­
logical, or radiological weapons aboard an air­
plane. However, the threat information that 
led to the canceled flights this weekend did
PgKWi
not indicate a specific method to bring down a 
plane or spread an illness such as smallpox, 
said a U.S. official speaking on condition of 
anonymity.
Instead, the official said intelligence ana­
lysts use threat information about the flights, 
and match it up to information about types of 
attacks al Qaeda may want to launch, to come 
up with possible scenarios for an attack at any 
particular time.
British Airways grounded the same flight 
scheduled Sunday and Monday from London’s 
Heathrow Airport to Dulles International 
Airport outside Washington, as well as the 
return flights. Also canceled was a flight from 
London to Miami on Sunday. In addition, 
Continental Airlines said it canceled Flight 17 
for Sunday from Glasgow, Scotland, to Los 
Angeles with an intermediate stop in Newark, 
N.J.
Air France scrubbed the same flight set for 
Sunday and Monday from Charles de Gaulle 
Airport in Paris to Dulles. As a result, the out­
bound flights were canceled.
A U.S. government official, speaking on the 
condition of anonymity, said there were con­
cerns about a handful of flights on those for­
eign carriers and a U.S.-based airline that flies 
internationally.
“We continue to receive threat reporting 
that indicates al Qaeda’s desire to target inter­
national aviation,” said Brian Roehrkasse, a 
spokesman for the Homeland Security 
Department.
Despite those threats, Roehrkasse said the 
department had no plans to raise the nation’s 
terror alert level from yellow, or elevated risk 
of terrorist attack. Yellow is in the middle of 
the five-color coded scale.
The decision to cancel the flights was made 
jointly by the U.S., British, and French govern­
ments, according to a senior U.S. law enforce­
ment official speaking on condition of 
anonymity.
The U.S. government official said the threat 
information picked up by intelligence agen­
cies specifically mentioned British Airways 
flight 223 from London to Dulles, British 
Airways flight 207 from London to Miami, and 
Air France flight 026 from Paris to 
Washington.
An official close to French prime minister 
Jean-Pierre Raffarin told the Associated Press 
that the Air France flights were canceled 
because of “serious threats.”
ire
Shortage of room : 
at Pitt
PITTSBURGH (U-WIRE) — While 
the University of Pittsburgh’s tuition 
and Chancellor Nordenberg’s salary 
appear to be locked in a perpetual 
increase, there is one thing at Pitt that 
seems to be on the decline: classroom 
space.
With the stated purpose of improv­
ing room usage, Pitt recently revised a 
policy originally adopted in July 1990 
to ensure that departments only sched­
ule twice-a-week, 75-minute classes on 
Tuesdays and Thursdays, or during 
non-peak times on other days.
According to this Jan. 1, 2004 revi­
sion, “All classes of 75-minute duration 
will meet on a Tuesday-Thursday 
schedule,” with an exception for classy 
es that take place from 8 am to 9:15 
am, 3 pm to 4:15 pm, or 4:30 pm td 
5:45 pm on a Monday-Wednesday, 
Monday-Friday, or Wednesday-Friday 
schedule.
“It was a problem that everyone 
wants classes between 9 and 2,” said 
associate university registrar Barbara 
Heron, adding that allowing 75*- 
minute classes during peak times on 
Mondays, Wednesdays and Friday^ 
would greatly complicate the schedulj- 
ing of 50-minute courses, and thus 
mean that there simply would not be 
adequate space available.
“There are enough rooms if every­
thing’s properly utilized,” she said.
Fiore Pugliano, an English depart­
ment adviser and lecturer, described 
the current situation as a “severe roon) 
crunch.” According to Pugliano, the 
policy ensures that more courses are 
scheduled on Fridays by essentially 
limiting the Monday-Wednesday 
option — an outcome that has caused 
some resentment among students and 
faculty.
An additional factor in the roorr} 
availability problem, said Pugliano, 
has been high enrollment. From fall of 
1996 until fall of 2002, Pitt’s overall 
enrollment increased 8.3 percent, as 
reported in the Jan. 9, 2003 edition of 
The Pitt News.
According to Pugliano, with this 
increasingly high enrollment, manj[ 
popular classes are scheduled at the 
worst times—meaning Fridays, early 
mornings and late afternoons-4 
because they fill up regardless; 
“Students get trapped,” he said.
The construction taking place in the 
Cathedral of Learning resulted in the 
loss of classroom space in the eastern 
part of the second and third floors. 
Therefore, some courses are scheduled 
for rooms that are considered to be too 
far away by many students and faculty.
With construction in the Cathedral 
scheduled to continue until December 
2004, and increasing enrollment fig­
ures, the situation is not expectecQS 
improve in the near future.
Despite these difficulties, Heron 
emphasized that there is enough class­
room space if departments schedule 
their classes equitably and that they 
“try very hard” to schedule classes in a 
way that accommodates everyone’s 
wishes, “but sometimes, we just cafl3; 
do it.”
U.S. Steel reports E 
$27 million loss
PITTSBURGH (AP) — The world’s 
largest integrated steel company on 
Friday reported a loss of $27 million, 
or 26 cents per share, in the last thjge 
months of 2003 compared with a prof­
it of $11 million, or 10 cents per shafe* 
for the same period in 2002. The loss 
includes dividend payments on pre­
ferred stock of $5 million.
The consensus forecast of analysts 
surveyed by Thomson First Call was 
for a loss of 37 cents per share. U.S. 
Steel shares rose $1.34 to close at 
$34.05 on the New York Stock 
Exchange.
Steel experts said they were su& 
prised that the company was abl^'fo 
integrate as rapidly as it did following 
a year of acquisitions and extensive job 
cuts.
The two acquisitions increased the 
company’s steelmaking capability by 
about 50 percent to 26.8 million tons, 
said Thomas Usher, chairman and 
chief executive.
U.S. Steel moved closer to its goal of 
$400 million in annualized savings by1 
the end of 2004 and domestic prices' 
for steel continue to improve, he said,.'« 
The company cut 6000 jobs, reducing; 
its work force to about 22,000, follow^ 
ing the National Steel acquisition. U.S. 
Steel recorded a $3 million charge for 
work force reductions that exceeded 
its earlier estimates.
Restructuring throughout the year 
cost U.S. Steel $623 million in employ­
ee benefits and severance and $60 ifij&I 
lion in fixed asset impairments.
The company’s stock price swelled' 
from $18.38 to $35.02 per share, leacf-j 
ing to a $72 million expense in the! 
fourth quarter for outstanding stoc.k1 
appreciation rights.
If gains from foreign exchange are 
taken into account, U.S. Steel may! 
have done even better on the quarter, 
said Mark Parr, an analyst with 
McDonald Investments Inc.
“There were better than expected 
improvements in underlying opera­
tions,” Parr said. “This is a strong mes­
sage that the company is gaining trac­
tion With its cost reduction plans and it 
is realizing the synergies with!! 
National. It is also a sign that the c<jjt£i 
tract with the Steelworkers is showing'1 
benefits.”
r

---------------------------------------------------

>UJ
«SII
BoonA péti gh aéeARH£§/£ MUSICHAL
ê /7=? INFORMATION Af/t>
M|
'tit'ifr&ii&iii&UsBmwmmmÊm
{(¿¡¡’fi,
¡§§1|
^ Residence ilr
Inn ®
<^amotP>
ROOM TO RELAX. ROOM TO WORK, ROOM TO BREATHE
PITTSBURGH/OAKLAND
Al! of our suites provide the comforts of home with Marriott s passion for making every guest fee! welcome
174 Spacious Suites (with lull kitchens) 24-Hour Message Center / Voice Mail
Three Meeting Rooms (over 2,000 sq. ft.) Indoor Pool and Whirlpool
Hot Breakfast Daily (including scrambled eggs and Belgian wattles) Fitness Center
Evening Social Hour (Mon.-Thurs.) Cable TV with Premium Channels
Daily Newspaper . Pets Accepted
Shuttle Van Service (within 3-mile radius) Laundry Facilities on Each Floor
Secure Indoor Garage High Speed Internet
ASK ABOUT OUR CMU RATES!
3896 Bigelow Boulevard ? Oakland • Pittsburgh, PÀ 15213 • (412) 621-2200 * www.residenceinn.com/pitro
•• • • ' :ï .V: v- . Ï • • ; Ï'• • : y ¦ ' • y :.:y . , , . : ¦ • . :.,y " . . ¦ . y ' .V: ............................: y ¦ . . • •. y.'.'. , .-y,'-. : . v, v ' . ¦ :: ., .. .Vy’-y,
YOUR ADMISSION FEE WILL BE DONATED TO CHARITABLE CAUSES THAT SUPPORT ISRAEL AND
JEWISH CAMPUS LIFE IN PITTSBURGH.
PRODUCED IN COOPERATION BY THE UNITED JEWISH FEDERATION & THE HILLEL JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER. 
FOR MORE INFO CONTACT THE HILLEL JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER AT 412.621.8875.
rpT TTi m 1 Tp> rp * SeTHE TARTAN
Harnessing the 
power of plaid..
...to deliver you 
quality news 
every 
Monday 
morning

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN • FEBRUARY 2, 2004
Search begins for new CIT dean
by Lucas Yiannatji
Personnel Manager
At the start of 2004, John 
Anderson, dean of CIT, announced 
that he will be leaving his position at 
Carnegie Mellon to take the position 
of provost at Case Western Reserve 
University in Cleveland, Ohio. His 
tenure there will officially begin on 
April 1, which leaves two more 
months for the University to find a 
replacement. This past weekend, a 
committee was created to begin the 
search.
According to Mark Kamlet, 
Carnegie Mellon provost, the process 
of choosing a new dean primarily 
revolves around the establishment of 
a “search committee” appointed by 
the president.
“The committee usually comes 
largely from whatever unit that per­
son is from, and we try to have there 
be a fair representation from the dif­
ferent parts of the engineering col­
lege. In addition to that, there are 
also one or two people from other 
parts of campus.”
Kamlet remarked that student
input is also highly valued in the 
process, but due to the timing of the 
meetings, students are not part of the 
committee. He also mentioned that 
in recent history, six months has 
been the normal time needed to find 
a replacement for a position of this 
level.
When asked if the current three- 
month time frame would be an issue,
“...he’s meant a lot 
to this University, 
and it’s a big loss...” 
— Jared Cohon
University President Jared Cohon 
said that a new dean probably would 
not be chosen by April 1, but that this 
situation did not pose a serious prob­
lem.
“An acting dean will be named for 
that interim period, and it works fine 
in a college like CIT, which is well 
run.... I don’t think [the transition] is
going to be rough at all,” said Cohon.
“Usually, [candidates] come from 
inside the University,” Kamlet said. 
“Statistically speaking that is often 
the case, but by no means always. We 
have an extraordinarily good engi­
neering school, and when a position 
like the deanship, the leadership 
position for such a college opens up, 
we owe it to ourselves to have a look 
nationally, even internationally.”
According to Cohon, the 
University does not have anyone 
specifically in mind yet to fill the 
position.
“It’s premature to have names on 
the table, but whenever a dean’s 
position changes, people naturally 
talk a lot about internal and external 
candidates, and both will be consid­
ered.”
While commenting on Anderson, 
President Cohon said, “We’re very 
sorry to see him go. John Anderson 
has been a tremendous dean and a 
great leader in general, a great facul­
ty member of this University for, I 
believe, 28 years. So he’s meant a lot 
to this University, and it’s a big loss 
for us. But at the same time, we’re 
happy for him.”
Dozens sick with gastroenteritis
ILLNESS, from page A1
cases were from students who had 
! eaten at campus dining locations, 
Dining Services has been involved in 
the investigation.
Russell Borum, student body rep­
resentative of Dining Services, said, 
“We haven’t determined that this was 
food poisoning. It could be a virus or 
a bug. Dining Services is talking with 
[the Allegheny County Health 
Department] to review the problem.”
“Nothing has been found so far,” 
said Jane Fahringer, general manag­
er of Dining Services.
Other representatives of Dining 
Services declined to comment on the 
situation, saying only that they have 
been working closely with Barkin 
and Health Services.
With the outbreak of hepatitis A in 
November 2003, food providers have 
been cautious of what they serve. 
This week, Vincent Giordano Corp. 
of Philadelphia voluntarily recalled 
approximately 52,000 pounds of 
processed meat for fear of listeria 
contamination. The recalled meat 
includes 16 varieties of pastrami, 
corned beef, and roast beef. 
According to the U.S. Department of 
Agriculture’s Food Safety and
Inspection Service, listeria, can cause 
serious food poisoning.
Healthy individuals rarely contract 
listeriosis, but the disease can be 
fatal, causing symptoms such as high 
fever, severe headache, neck stiff­
ness, and nausea. It is not known 
whether or not the recent reports of 
suspected food poisoning can be 
related to the recalling of Giordano 
meat until ACHD finishes their inves­
tigation.
Guillermo Cole of ACHD said, 
“Listeria is a germ that often affects 
luncheon meat, but I don’t know any­
thing about its presence in 
Pittsburgh. In the event that this 
[recalled] meat has been distributed 
here, the federal authorities would 
have contacted us, and the Health 
Department would have sent out a 
notice to the people.”
On Thursday and Friday, patients 
were extensively interviewed regard­
ing what they ate, and where they 
had been in the past several days. 
Thus far, there has been no signifi­
cant trend in dining or residence 
halls. There has been further analysis 
on specimens from the patients that 
went to UPMC Thursday night.
“We will be looking at the vomit 
and stool samples that are being cul­
tured at this moment. Until then, we 
can’t make any solid conclusions, but 
we are trying very hard to solve this 
problem,” said Cole. He said that the 
interviews of all the patients have not 
yet been completed, but will be by 
today. The cultures will not yield a 
result until today or tomorrow, at the 
earliest.
Students who have been sent to 
UPMC were treated and released on 
Friday. There are still cases that are 
being brought to Health Services, but 
none have been serious enough to 
justify hospitalization. People afflict­
ed have been given a saline solution 
through an IV in order to replace the 
fluids lost during vomiting.
Tarek Yamany, a first-year in com­
puter science, another victim of sus­
pected food poisoning, said, “I ate 
pasta with meat sauce at the 
International Market, and then a 
cheeseburger at the Underground 
that night.... The hospital treated me 
very well. They hooked me up to an 
IV, and I probably went through 
seven bags of the solution. I missed 
three classes on Friday, and I’ll be 
missing Monday’s classes.”
Barkin added, “For the students 
this has been an uncomfortable ill­
ness, but it is not life threatening.”
Sorority is first of kind at CMU
roMus cduBMum lo’’Mssbb
The Joint Funding Committee made the following recommendations for
the use of the budget surplus left from organizational budgets at the end
of last school year. The JFC heard appeals from organizations that
had line items cut during the Spring 2003 JFC Process, and issued a
recommendation upon how to distribute the budgeted surplus. The
Undergraduate Student Senate and the Graduate Student Assembly
in Fall 2003 passed these recommendations without amendment.
AB Comedy$3848.82
AB Concerts$800
AB Films$9000
AB Main$472
AB Political Speakers$3500
AB Publications$6700
AB Special Events$0
CIA$515
College Bowl$150
Dancer’s Symposium$1100
EARTH$950
Fencing$100
F ilmmaking@cmu$170
Fringe$250
Ice Hockey$2100
Lacrosse$300
Mock Trial$400
SALSA$1090
Scotch n’ Soda$1870
SPIC MACAY$750
SPIRIT$1200
Thistle$12350
TSA$1250
Water Polo$0
Women’s Center$600
Yang Jia Taijiquan$750
AB Films$9000 (from the UC Capital Account)
SORORITY, from page A1
sophomore in MCS.
Broff added that the benefits of this 
organization include giving people a 
place to have fun and be non-stressed. 
Each person will nonetheless share 
responsibilities. Although the co­
founders technically only have three 
semesters to enjoy the newfound 
organization, Eliot feels that it is more 
than enough time.
Another friend who whole-hearted­
ly supports the new addition to greek 
life is Eric Jonas, a first-year in H&SS.
“I have been told that co-ed frater­
nities exist, so why not co-ed sorori­
ties? And even if co-ed 
fraternities/sororities don’t exist, I 
think that there’s no good reason to 
keep them from coming into exis­
tence,” Jonas said. He feels that the 
sexist stereotypes will be solved since 
both genders can collaborate to form 
a sturdy organization.
The co-founders also mentioned
how there are already several stu­
dents interested, many of whom are 
their friends, and members of their 
air-guitar band. They both empha­
sized that they welcome all students 
to join and that they will strive to neg­
lect the common trends and stereo­
types among other fraternities and 
sororities.
Thus far, no definite plans have 
been made, though they encourage 
all students to learn more about the 
organization.SCS Day entertains community
SCS, from page A1
Milisits recently won the National 
High School Chess Championship and 
will soon be ranked as a chess master. 
He has applied for admission to the 
School of Computer Science, but will 
not know if he’s accepted until later 
this spring.
All chess tournament participants 
received six-month subscriptions to 
the Internet Chess Club. The Internet 
Chess Club was founded by Danny
Sleator, a CMU computer science pro­
fessor who also made an appearance 
at Saturday’s tournament.
Donna Gates, a masters student in 
the Language and Technology 
Institute, won the art and photogra­
phy competition with her pottery 
exhibit, “Together.”
SCS Day also featured a raffle 
drawing, with tickets costing $1 each, 
for an Xbox and three games.
A new contest this year was the 
iThink Different Award, which award­
ed an Apple iPod music player to the 
person who submitted the best idea 
for additions to the SCS Day program. 
The winner of the iThink competition, 
SCS faculty member Lorrie Cranor, 
suggested an SCS king and queen 
competition.
Students could compete for the sta­
tus of king or queen through competi­
tions such as the standard talent 
show, a geek attire competition, geek 
talent demonstrations, and technical 
competitions.
AAA
Spring Break 2004
The Ultimate Experience
Packages from Pittsburgh starting at:
CALL ¿ C O O1.800.733.6347
www.BeachLifeVacations.com
Too much 
research?
Too little time?
Don't know 
where to start?
Go to: - «
ARF
Taken from 1916 Thistle
Image courtesy of the Carnegie Mellon University Library
Automated 
Re source 
Finder
http://www.library.cmu.edu/Research/arf/inclex.html
Use ARF as a starting place to 
find books, pick a database, or locate other types 
of high-quality online resourses. 
ARF is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
Brought to you by the Carnegie Mellon University 
Libraries

---------------------------------------------------

V.
Spring Break in Panama City Beach. Florida!
Beach Resort & Conference Center
World's Longest Keg Party
Live Band & DJ • Wet T-Shirt,
Hard Body & Venus Swimwear Contests
800 feet of Golf Bench Frontage • 2 large Ootdoor Swimming Pools 
Sailboat, Jet Ski & Parasail Rentals Lazy River Ride & Water Slide 
Huge Beachfront Hot Tub * Volleyball • Suites up to 12 people
BookEarly World DJ•Wet
SUMMER
VISITING
UNDERGRADUATE
PROGRAM
are currently renting\\ 
/studio, 1, 2, 3, 4, & 5 bedroom^ 
hi luxury aparfments available 
for next falijd the areas
TSouth Oakland, N|)mt^kland, 
riendship, Shadyside & Squirrel H 
NjVe also have some apartments^ 
available now!
appointment please cNmj*
Catch Up Or Get 
Ahead On Credits
At The Johns Hopkins University
mm
-, ' - -w
Ê4
WBKm 111«
fr rvv'-";
Need to catch up or get ahead on credits? Want to lighten your 
spring and fait course loads? Desire to graduate on time?
Whatever your reason, enrolling in a summer course at The Johns Hopkins# 
University has many benefits:
* Learn from experienced faculty at a world-renowned research university.
»Select from 90 courses in over 30 disciplines.
? Enjoy the many amenities and resources that Hopkins has to offer.
• Attend class close to home if you live near Maryland.
Log onto www.jhu.edu/summer to request your summer schedule or to 
download an application.
Term I
June t thru July 2 
Application Deadline:; May 14
Term U
July 6 thru August 6 
Application Deadline: June 14
3400 North Charles St. 
Wyman Park Bldg.. Sie. Gl 
Baltimore, MD 21218JOHNS HOPKINS 410.510454«
« x 1 v t * s 1 t , 800.548.0548
§Èm
mm
m
y;t[ W'-iÎiÿi '
MÊWÊÊm
TTUESDAAYEWNNNNrC
3896 Bigelow Boulevard • Oakland * Pittsburgh, PA 15213 • (412) 621-2200 • www.residenceinn.com/pitro800.488.83ZS • www.saridpiperbeacon.com
Want to live in a great 
apartment next year?
\our Valentine’s Day date looks great, but 
maybe you should wonder what’s 
behind those lips...
fEx hbbsv lPbyuMumCF
Includes: Gum Evaluation, Bitewing X-Rays, Basic Cleaning and Examination
(New Patients Only - a $130 value!)
*not valid if gum disease is presentNow is te to call
412-795-5845
The Ultimate Spring Break Experience
TUES
¦ton L¿OwA¿.BUDeeLAa
For More Information Call 
1-888-777-4642Or Visit 
WWW.STUDENTCfTY.COM
Because even the little 
guy counts...
Residence
Inn ®
Harriott
RESIDENCE INN BY MARRIOTT
PITTSBURGH / OAKLAND
All of our suites provide the comforts of home with Marriott's passion for making every guest feel welcome.
ASK ABOUT OUR CM U RATES!
It’s not the size of 
the ad that matters...
It’s how you use it 
that really counts. 
Advertise in
THE TARTAN
advertising@thetartan.org
Ace Ventura, pet decective*Akira*Aifred Hitchcock's Psycho*American beauty^American his­tory X^Apocalypse now*Army of darkness*Back to the future*Being John Malkovich*8lily¿Chasing hard ¦fow Ilearned to stop worrying and love ehe bomb*Enter the dragon*The evil deadr'Ev!ä dead ll*TheK'FuIJ matai Jacket^Gbost VD collection bonus stdenEye^Good Will Hunting^The green
Exoreist*Pargo*The fifth j in the shetl*Ghostbusmater ¡ais*Godfather, part H^Gftdfiuher, part Ui4 
mile^Happy Gi!more*High fidelicy*How the Grinch stole Christmas*!he hunt for Red October*indiana Jones and the temple of doom“;!ndiana Jones and the last crusade^lndiana Jones bonus weapon*Lethalweapon 2vl~sthal w^a^3cJfl)\fetnjpV^li^fic*^;gTLllNlSe|i and two smokingbarrels*The ford of the rings: the two sowers^The lord oftne rings: die fellowship of the ring*Major league-Major league jeIoadedi:Memento Mi­nority report*Monty JO vnCa1^^1 hS?! Brian "Monty Python’sthe meaning of Sife^fNmja scroli^PaySSfck^Pirates oftre Caribbean* Pretty woman* Princes Mononoke*Princess br*de*Putp fiction^Raiders of the lost ark^Requiem for a dream* Reservoir dogs*The ring^Roboeop^Rocky^Rocky il*Rocky IH*Rocky IV*Saving Private Ryan 'The Shawshank redemp;:,,pjgaS:^ |^fncU§ Jit "*"*»turtles*!«® Tertnmator’Termmatof * 2^’Tne.y uve,?Thing*Tru€i T?es*:Twelve monkeys<!Unbreel«h^|j^|JJtt|^^b^Waem^tiupyr' Wjf »»’s worid*WhertHarry met Saliy;^"nfef7^“0 oa^Ts^Ace Ventura, pet
detective8Akira Alfred#H>tcicock's|Psyc!|®:American bi^utM’^jnericart history X1 Apocalypse now -Army of da r krteM; 0aX»;'iT> rt* Maf I fry Madison* Boondock
salnts^Braveheart^Buono, il bruito. ij cattivo*Casablar»ca:>Cbas*r>« Arny4:C!erksi Clockwork orange4Conspiracy theory* My nl>v4i^l$&liy»:l£©Wfif,’'EiiiGV©l with a ver?geance“Die hard 2*Dirty daneJpg:*Dogrna*Donnie Darko- Dr. Strangelove, or; How I learned to stop worrying and love the homb::Enter the dragoiv”The evii dead^Evil dead if’The ExorcistwFargo:jThe fifth
ROOM TO RELAX, ROOM TO WORK, ROOM TO BREATHE.
174 Spacious Suites (with full kitchens)
Three Meeting Rooms (over 2,000 sq. ft.)
Hot Breakfast Daily (including scrambled eggs and Belgian waffles) 
Evening Social Hour (Mon.-Thurs.)
Daily Newspaper
Shuttle Van Service (within 3-mile radius)
Secure Indoor Garage
24-Hour Message Center / Voice Mail 
Indoor Poo! and Whirlpool 
Fitness Center
Cable TV with Premium Channels 
Pets Accepted
Laundry Facilities on Each Floor 
High Speed Internet
Now that s something to 
smile about!
Call Today: 412-681-8011
Same Day Emergency Care 
10% Courtsey for Students and Faculty
Serving The Community With 
Exceptional Dental Care 
Since 1989
It’snoh’ei zntefa dfon 
mr.t wy ufoel zyzycy
200 North Craig Street 
Oakland - Shadyside 
www.universitydentalcare.com

---------------------------------------------------

Science ^Technology
2I February 2004THE TARTANPage A6
New subatomic particles created
CMU researchers discover new families of baryons at the Fermi National Accelerator Lab
by Adam Greenberg
Forum Editor
“Charm” quarks are a heavier type 
.jsf quark than those found in the very 
^ommon proton and neutron, which 
are relatively light baryons because 
' they are made from less massive “up” 
and “down” quarks. Physicists have 
; been speculating for more than 20 
years that there exist classes of heav­
ier baryons — particles composed of 
three quarks — made from the 
charm quarks. In the mid-1980s, 
they successfully created quarks con­
taining a single charm quark, which 
were surprisingly easier to produce 
than they had originally anticipated.
Since then, physicists have been 
'^arching for particles containing 
¡^two charm quarks. Such particles 
would be about four times the mass 
“’«of a proton (and roughly the size of a 
'•Jielium nucleus). Among the experi­
ments currently running to create 
these particles is the Segmented 
Large X-baryon Spectrometer 
(SELEX) project being run out of the
- Fermi National Accelerator 
• Laboratory in Chicago. The consor­
tium working on the SELEX experi- 
.ment includes approximately 100 
physicists from 10 countries, several 
of whom are from Carnegie Mellon,
- including physics professor Jim Russ, 
who served as co-spokesperson for 
the project.
SELEX speculated on the proper­
ties doubly-charmed quarks would 
have and targeted their specific cre­
ation using the Fermilab accelerator. 
They did not search for even heavier 
quarks containing the massive “top” 
or “bottom” quarks.
“The interactions [between the 
charm quarks] should not depend on 
how heavy they are,” said Russ.
In 1997, they recorded about 
^one billion particle collisions.
- 'Unfortunately, the X baryons have a 
.-..very short lifetime — so short, in 
, fact, as to defy detection. The project
team analyzed the particles that 
resulted from the X baryons’ decay 
and their momentum to determine 
what particles they had originally 
created; when data was examined, 
there were clear indications that one
the three double-charm particles 
'ior which they were searching had 
been found.
Sixteen instances were recorded of 
particle with a mass of 3.520 GeV 
(giga-electron-volt, 1 GeV = 1.07
Lì
E-781
UNIV. PNPi-ST,PETERSBURG 
QBPF-RIO DE 1ANE1R0 UNIVERSITY OF BRISTOL 
FERMILAB UNIVERSITY OF IOWA
IHEP-BEIilNG UNIVERSITY OF PARAIBA
IHEP-SERPUKHOV UNIVERSITY OF ROCHESTER 
ITEP-MOSCOW UNIVERSITY OF SÂ8 PAULO 
MOSCOW STATE UNIV. UNIV. OF WASHINGTON 
-------------ER6 TEL AVIV UNIVERSITY
Peter Cooper (left) and Jim Russ stand 
pating in the SELEX project.
Courtesy of Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory
under a sign listing institutions partici-
times the mass of a proton). The 
team decided that this was likely a 
CCD (charm-charm-down) baryon, 
and it is quite possible that until the 
SELEX experiment, this class of parti­
cle had not existed since immediately 
after the creation of the universe.
Researchers subsequently found 
evidence of a second X baryon, 
charm-charm-up, which had slightly 
greater mass. However, the team 
could not understand why the gap 
between the CCD and CCU masses 
was so large.
Since a proton consists of two up 
quarks and a down quark, and a neu­
tron consists of two down quarks and
A list of all the low-spin types of baryons possible by components. The heaviest 
particles are at the top of the diagram.
an up quark, the difference between 
their masses should be close to the 
difference between the two doubly- 
charmed quarks. The difference 
between the quarks, however, was 60 
times larger.
“Based on particles already found, 
you can extrapolate to what these 
particles should behave like,” said 
Mark Mattson, a SELEX-affiliated 
CMU graduate student in a Fermilab 
report. “Our findings don't quite sat­
isfy all predicted properties.”
Two other baryons are possible 
within the scope of the SELEX exper­
iment; so far, both have escaped 
notice.
Examination of how these parti­
cles act, both within themselves and 
with other particles, especially the 
forces that bind the two charm 
quarks to each other, might yield key 
information about particle behavior.
“The interesting thing about the 
double [charm quark baryons] is 
they have different degrees of free­
dom that the others don’t,” said Russ.
In addition, they serve to disprove 
the absence of those particles. All 
combinations of three-quark baryons 
are theoretically possible, whether or 
not they have been actually found to 
exist.
“If one of these combinations did­
n’t exist,” said Peter Cooper, Russ’s 
co-spokesperson, in a report, “there 
would have to be some very funda­
mental reason why.”
Since the conclusion of the experi­
ment, various members of the SELEX 
team have written papers about their 
search for heavy baryons or the con­
tinuing search for still-missing pieces 
of the puzzle. Another half dozen 
papers about the SELEX work should 
come out over this summer.
Dark energy’s place in SdTechBiiefc 
the universe explained
by John Davin
Contributing Editor
A New York Times article last July 
with the headline % “Astronomers 
Report Evidence of ‘Dark Energy’ 
Splitting the Universe” upset David 
Letterman so much that he asked Bob 
Nichol, a CMU physicist, to speak on 
his late night variety show.
Nichol, along with researchers at 
the University of Pittsburgh, discov­
ered conclusive evidence last year 
that dark energy causes the expan­
sion of the universe to accelerate. 
While the universe certainly won’t 
split apart anytime soon, the research 
has widespread implications for 
astronomy and our knowledge of the 
universe.
Nichol gave a lecture last Monday 
in Baker Hall presenting his findings 
on dark energy. Nichol and his co­
researchers studied a phenomenon 
called the Sachs-Wolfe effect, in 
which a light particle travels through 
a cosmological mass, causing it to 
pick up energy that it later loses to 
gravity. The researchers found that 
the particles were actually gaining 
energy, an effect which could only be 
explained by the repulsive force of 
dark energy.
Nichol and his partners used data 
from the Sloan Digital Sky Survey 
(SDSS) and a NASA satellite called 
the Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy 
Probe (WMAP). The change in parti­
cle energies was observed by looking 
at differences in microwave tempera­
tures, based on WMAP data which 
mapped the microwaves that come 
from all directions of space. This map 
provides a picture of the universe 
from about 380,000 years after the 
Big Bang. The spectrum of the 
microwaves shows that they came 
from that early period.
“Dark energy is driving the acceler­
ation of the universe because of its 
repulsive force against gravity,” said 
Nichol. Dark energy is energy that can 
only be detected by inference, and it 
has a repulsive effect — it has a force 
opposite the force of gravitational 
pull.
Science declared in December that 
the WMAP project and confirmation 
of dark energy expansion are the 
number one breakthrough in science 
in 2003. Nichol’s work with analyzing 
the satellite data contributed to the 
discovery.
The first evidence that dark energy 
was causing the expansion of the uni­
verse was found in 1998 by two sepa­
rate teams studying supernovae.
“We don’t know where [dark ener­
gy] comes from,” said Nichol. “It 
could be left over from the beginning 
of the universe.”
Dark matter, another major compo­
nent of the universe, is a type of mat­
ter that we can’t see but has a gravita­
tional pull similar to that of normal 
matter. Scientists have been aware of 
its existence since the 1930s when the 
astronomer Fritz Zwicky observed 
distant galaxies that did not have 
enough visible matter to account for 
the amount of gravity required to 
keep the galaxies from flying apart.
“We live in a very unusual part of 
the universe,” said Nichol. A room on 
Earth might have something on the 
order of 1030 atoms. But according to 
Nichol, the universe has an average of 
only 11 atoms per cubic meter. For 
this reason, the gravitational effect of 
regular matter in Earth and other 
planets most likely overpowers the 
impact of the dark energy present 
here.
To speed up the time process of 
analyzing the data, the Pittsburgh 
Computational Astrostatistics (PiCA) 
group, which includes researchers 
from the CMU computer science and 
statistics departments, developed 
faster algorithms for analyzing the 
data. The analysis was run on a group 
of 20 computers in Wean Hall.
Jeffrey Peterson, a CMU physicist, 
has been studying the sky using a tele­
scope at the South Pole. The tele­
scope, which is named Viper, was 
built in 1998 by a team of CMU under­
graduate students. Data collected 
from Viper was used to show the pres­
ence of dark energy in December of 
2002 — earlier than the WMAP data. 
However, Viper only covers a small- 
segment of the sky — about ten 
square degrees.
According to Peterson, Viper is a 
larger telescope than WMAP, and has 
about four times the resolution. It is 
stationed at the South Pole due to the 
pole’s very low amounts of atmos­
pheric water vapor, which can inter­
fere with telescopic observations.
Based on the results of the WMAP 
and Viper data, scientists now believe 
that the universe is made up of about 
23 percent dark matter, 73 percent 
dark energy, and only 4 percent 
baryons, or the particles that we 
know as normal matter.
“Cosmology right now is going 
through a tremendous revolution,” 
said Nichol.
John Davin/Contributing Editor
Professor Bob Nichol’s research on dark energy was ranked the most important 
research conducted in 2003 by the magazine Science. Nichols applied knowledge of 
dark energy to find out what the Universe looked like shortly after it was created.
How Things Work: Smoke detectors
D AMERICIUM
Er
LIGHT
DETECTOR
LIGHT
LIGHT HITS
LIGHT
DETECTOR
rmw nIIumll
Every year, thousands of people 
die due to fires in their homes. 
Three-fifths of these fatalities occur 
in homes without smoke detectors. 
Clearly, smoke detectors work — I’m 
here to tell you how. Smoke detectors 
work in one of two ways. The more 
common, and generally more effec­
tive type, relies on nuclear radiation, 
specifically alpha particles. Alpha 
particles are clumps of subatomic 
particles (two protons and two neu­
trons), and are emitted by americi­
um-241, the radioactive element 
that’s probably at the heart of your 
smoke detector. This type of nuclear 
radiation is handy for the smoke 
detector application because it can’t 
penetrate solid materials or more 
than a couple inches of air, so it’s not 
hazardous. (Don’t tamper with your 
smoke detector though, because if 
you break the americium up and 
inhale it or eat it, the alpha particles 
released inside you can cause mas­
sive internal damage.) You also don’t
have to worry about running out of 
americium as it undergoes radioac­
tive decay — americium has a half- 
life of 432 years, meaning that it will 
be half used-up in 432 years; you’ll 
go through a lot of 9-volt batteries 
before you run out of alpha particles.
The battery in the smoke detector 
provides a voltage across two plates 
near the americium. The alpha parti­
cles released by the decaying ameri­
cium ionize atoms in the air, mean­
ing that they knock electrons off of 
them. The free electrons have a neg­
ative charge, so they are attracted to 
the positively-charged plate (oppo­
sites attract).
As you may know, flowing elec­
trons are also known as electric cur­
rent. Most of the time, this tiny cur­
rent flows happily between the two 
plates. In the event of a fire, however, 
smoke particles make their way into 
the smoke detector, and the free elec­
trons are attracted to them, rather 
than to the positively-charged plate. 
The electronics in the smoke detector 
detect the resulting change in the 
electric current, and trigger the
alarm.
Smoke can also be detected by a 
light source and an optical sensor. 
This type of smoke detector is more 
costly than the other type, and is less 
sensitive to small amounts of smoke. 
The light source shines a focused 
beam of light through an otherwise- 
dark cavity that’s open to the air. The 
optical sensor is positioned on the 
side of the cavity, so it’s not directly 
exposed to the beam of light, and 
“sees” nothing.
When there’s enough smoke in the 
air, some of the light bounces off the 
smoke particles and goes in all direc­
tions, so the optical sensor “sees” 
light and triggers the alarm.
If that’s- hard to visualize, think 
about how you can see the beam of 
light coming out of a flashlight in 
dense fog, whereas in the absence of 
fog you don’t see the beam so much 
as what it’s shining on.
And remember, only you can pre­
vent wildfires ... but the people you 
live with can help you prevent house 
fires by installing and maintaining 
smoke detectors in your residence.
Researchers find 
new matter type
Scientists at the National 
Institute of Standards and 
Technology and the University of 
Colorado at Boulder have devel­
oped fermionic condensate, a new 
type of matter. Researchers expect 
to learn more about room tempera­
ture superconductors by studying 
fermionic condensates, which com­
prise pairs of atoms at near 
absolute zero.
Deborah Jin and her team dis­
covered the fermionic condensate 
by following up on the 1995 cre­
ation of the Bose-Einstein conden­
sate, which uses supercold temper­
atures to make particles behavein 
the same way, by researchers also 
at NIST and UC-Boulder. ÌTfiat 
research won Dr. Eric CorneiTaVid 
his research team a Nobel Prize.
Source: Scientific American
Fat-fighting drug 
induces cancer
Researchers at Vanderbilt 
University have discovered that 
some types of fat-reducing medica­
tions increase users’ risk of getting 
colon cancer. The drugs contain 
compounds known as PPAR-delta 
agonists, which have caused pre- 
cancerous polyps in laboratory 
mice. Dr. Raymond DuBois and his 
research team showed that a proto­
type GlaxoSmithKline drug 
designed to fight the heart condi­
tion known as “Syndrome X’ could 
make mice exhibit behaviors that 
commonly precede cancer wftwi 
seen in humans. ,rr
ri-nrrr
Source: Reuters m
• 11J16
MyDoom virus T' 
attacks SCO, MS
» » K\/K
The MyDoom virus shut c^pwn 
the website of the SCO corporation 
in a huge denial of service attack 
Sunday.
Microsoft and SCO have each 
offered $250,000 rewards for 
whomever identifies the creator of 
the virus, which is also known as 
Novarg and Shimgapi. Microsoft 
expects a version of the virus, 
termed MyDoom.B, to attack its 
website on Tuesday MyDoom is 
the fastest-spreading Internet 
worm in history, and can cause 
security breaches on infected com­
puters in addition to attacking 
websites.
Source: BBC
Space station 
gets service trip
A Russian Progress space mod­
ule docked with the International 
Space Station on Saturday, bring­
ing essential supplies such as 
water, food, and a spare air hose to 
fix a leak discovered earlier 
month. U.S. astronaut Miqh^pl 
Foale and his crewmate Ru^i^p 
cosmonaut Alexander Kaleri, ;^ho 
are manning the station, got per­
sonal messages and more experi­
ment materials as part of the deliv­
ery.
Source: Associated Press
Music downloads 
assisted by soda
Soda companies will soon be 
helping music downloaders get 
what they want legally, thanks to 
partnerships with major music 
industry figures MusicMatch and 
iTunes.
Pepsi-Cola bought an ad during 
the Super Bowl that showed tar­
gets of music industry lawsuits say­
ing that they will continue to 
download music. The ad launched 
a Pepsi promotion in which codes 
worth one free iTunes download 
are printed on random Pepsi bottle 
caps. Coke will launch a similar 
promotion with the MusicMatch 
service soon.
Source: TechNews
Compiled, by 
Kevin Chang

---------------------------------------------------

Forum
3 February 2004THE TARTANPage A7
Pittsburgh’s streets require 
more and safer bicycle facilities
As we continue to bicker about state and 
local funds’ being sapped from our county’s 
public transportation system, another effi­
cient and socially conscious mode of trans­
portation is being marginalized, along with 
the bicyclists who use it — try as they might, 
it’s hard to get the city to take them seriously.
One of the city’s largest designated bike 
areas, the Eliza Furnace Trail, starts in 
Greenfield and bypasses several useful desti­
nations on its way to Downtown, making it 
useless to all but a handful of commuters. 
Elsewhere, there are few bike lanes on even 
major thoroughfares, and this can be a dan­
gerous thing.
Cyclists can only ride on the sidewalk in 
business districts where directed by traffic 
.devices, often leaving them on the street, and 
, ,jrL,^any cases, there are no bike paths to keep 
,tj}em separate from cars. As a result, in order 
tonride legally, cyclists must impose them­
selves on the flow of traffic while suffering the 
aggression of drivers who don’t understand 
why they should have to share the road. 
Cyclist Robert Hemelrick, 32, of Hazelwood, 
was killed by a drunk driver on January 29 
while riding in his neighborhood — for 
cyclists, sharing the road with cars is inconve­
nient at best, and a death sentence at worst.
Statistically, our roads are more congested 
than ever before. According to data collected 
by the Surface Transportation Policy Project in 
Washington, D.C., a higher proportion of 
roads across the nation are located in urban 
areas and are clogged with more drivers, mak­
ing biking to work a time- and fuel-saving 
alternative for both drivers and their commu­
nities.
Popular car culture may not be conducive to 
compromise with bicycles, but with citizens’ 
help, our federal government is beginning to 
take notice. Since 1991’s Intermodal Surface 
Transportation Efficiency Act (ISTEA),
Amidst illness scare, Parkhurst 
needs to scale back expansion
The thought of digesting another meal lov­
ingly crafted by Parkhurst and Dining Services 
is not an occasion that brings joy to students’ 
stomachs. However, the recent wave of gas­
troenteritis that has afflicted the denizens of 
our fair school brings a whole new level of 
intestinal discomfort.
While it would be easy to blame Parkhurst 
and their lackluster food service, the facts 
available thus far have not squarely named a 
culprit. Hopefully, Health Services and 
Farkhurst are looking in the right places, 
'fcTKtiking food distributors, interviewing per­
sonnel, and generally taking a methodical 
approach to hunting down the culprit. Dining 
Services is fully aware of students’ opinions of 
Parkhurst and should take the opportunity to 
fully examine the food service structure, from 
the storage of ingredients to the atmosphere 
upper management has created in CMU’s 
kitchens.
The Tartan noted Dining’s impersonal 
atmosphere in its November 17 issue: “A pan 
of congealing alfredo sauce catches the atten­
tion of a Dining Services employee. She says, 
“We gotta replace that. The manager’s on the 
floor.’ Another responds, ‘Ooooh, if Jane sees 
that.’ ” The people who serve our food are not 
motivated by a desire to deliver a quality prod­
uct, but by the potential lashings of a watchful 
superior. Parkhurst can do better and Dining 
Services should be focusing inward on its 
practices as well as finding a variety of foods 
students want. Our food supply is too impor­
tant to be blindly entrusted to anybody who 
offers the biggest profit margin.
Whether the malady’s origin turns out to be 
dining-related or merely a rather localized 
outbreak of some stomach virus, this incident 
calls to attention the recent rabble-rousing the 
company has been up to. Parkhurst has polite- 
ly,pressured CMU’s administration to consider 
placing every campus resident — in excess of 
-3500 people — to be on one version of a meal 
plSi or another.
'^'This is ridiculous: non-first-years have had 
tnfie to adjust to campus life and feed them­
selves. Tying them down to a meal plan 
throughout their education here would take 
away a crucial aspect of preparation for the
“real world.” Parkhurst still claims, though, 
that to improve the quality of food, they must 
have more customers.
A visit to Parkhurst’s website reveals a mis­
sion statement that seems contrary to what 
CMU students have come to live with: “We 
never forget that the guest is always right... 
We are different than our competitors in that 
we truly believe that all guests, especially on 
corporate campuses, have unlimited options. 
We never forget that it is just as easy for them 
to leave the building and eat elsewhere, espe­
cially as more and more choices open down 
the road.”
According to that statement, it would seem 
that there exists a corporate policy at 
Parkhurst that the company is all about using 
quality and convenience to convince people to 
eat on campus. To have their CMU sales repre­
sentatives saying that they need more guaran­
teed income to improve is a stark contradic­
tion in terms: evidently, unless the corpora­
tion is just filled with liars, Parkhurst is trying 
to pull a fast one here.
This creates a catch-22 in the classic sense: 
as sentiment on campus continues to sour 
towards the hospitality monopoly, patronage 
will only decrease. Parkhurst must take the 
initiative here, and give students a reason to 
eat on campus other than being forced to pre­
pay for thousands of dollars worth of food.
Corporations in the “real world” take out 
loans, find outside investments, and take actu­
al risks to improve their product and capture 
more market share. Eat’n Park Hospitality 
Group, Parkhurst’s parent company, has obvi­
ously done this before: their eponymous flag­
ship chain of restaurants is expanding at a rate 
of 10 percent each year, and they’ve recently 
opened locations of their new concept, “The 
Park Classic Diner,” in Monroeville and 
Jeanette.
If there has ever been a time when CMU 
Dining Services needs to reevaluate their rela­
tionship with Parkhurst Dining, it’s now. A 
small outbreak of food-borne illness doesn’t 
create a big stir when the students trust their 
predominant food provider; such trust, per­
haps, is something to which Parkhurst should 
aspire.
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon’s Student Newspaper Since 1906
EDITORIAL BOARD 
ALEX MESEGUER 
Editor-in-Chief
JIM PULS, Managing Editor 
J.T. TROLLMAN, Photo Editor 
J.F.P. AUWAERTER, Copy Manager 
CELANIE POLANICK, Contributing Editor
ADAM GREENBERG, Forum Editor 
JEFF CULLERS, Contributing Editor 
BARY DUNN, News Editor
EDITORIAL STAFF
DAN CEPPOS, Sports Editor 
MICHELLE M. BOVA, Pillbox Co-Editor 
EVAN SUNDWICK, Pillbox Co-Editor 
KEVIN CHANG, Sci. & Tech. Editor 
ELI POUSSON, Comics Editor 
ANNALISA SCHAEFER, Dossier Editor 
BRIDGET LEWIS, Art Editor 
SAAGAR PATEL, Online Editor 
REKHA NAIR, Advertising Manager
FRANKLIN WILLIAMS, Production Managervo vv» 0
smiiJCAS YIANNATJI, Personnel Manager 
RUYA BARAZ, Darkroom Manager
CHRISTINA' KUNG, Asst. News Editor 
MEG RICHARDS, Asst. Production Manager
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
John Davin, Karen Hoffmann, Neal R. Shyam
Congress has been working to encourage pub­
lic transportation and make the roads safe for 
bicycles. In 1998, the Transportation Equity 
Act for the 21st Century (TEA-21) was insti­
tuted to continue that vision. ISTEA focused 
on transportation and environmental issues 
around the country, but was designed to sup­
port local decision-making. Thirteen years 
later, the ball is still rolling, and House and 
Senate leaders are pushing for legislation that 
could direct money to the places we need it 
most — perhaps in time to prevent the ruin of 
our local transportation system.
The current TEA-21 renewal project offers 
public transportation funding and all manner 
of bicycle-oriented construction and program­
ming, including education, refurbishment of 
existing infrastructure, and new bikeways. 
Pennsylvania stands to benefit from this 
renewal as much as any state; prospective 
improvements include everything from envi­
ronmental action programs to a boost in tran­
sit funding for the state, Allegheny County, 
and the city of Pittsburgh itself.
A preponderance of other pending legisla­
tion — this summer’s Conserve by Bike Act, 
December’s Metropolitan Congestion Relief 
Act, and numerous others — are crowding 
Capitol Hill filing cabinets, waiting to be 
snatched up as soon as the public pipes up and 
demands action. If these wheels are already 
spinning on a national level, citizens can both 
show support and bring Pittsburgh up to 
speed.
Numerous CMU students, faculty, and staff 
ride bikes, and participate in events like 
Critical Mass, a worldwide bicycle advocacy 
movement that takes to the streets en masse as 
a celebration of the right to choose bicycles 
over cars. With a little effort, we can force our 
government to put the pedal to the metal and 
spend its money more wisely, in favor of the 
humble bicycle.
Asit j* 
é'
Vanessa Shyu/Art StaffIcy campus walkways prove hazardous
Lucas Yiannatji
So what’s the deal with sidewalks? No, 
really; I know that sounds like an old 
Seinfeld line, but did you see the state of the 
sidewalks in the aftermath of that snow­
storm last week? They were horrible! And 
not only did we have to jump over huge 
obstacles of slush while crossing the street at 
Morewood, and deal with slipping and slid­
ing all the way to class on sidewalks that 
appeared to be neither salted nor shoveled; 
we also faced a real danger on icy stairs 
which hardly provided a foothold going up 
or down.
This was not only a problem here on cam­
pus, but throughout the city. However, the 
city streets’ being in terrible disarray is at 
least somewhat understandable. The city of 
Pittsburgh is, after all, going through a huge 
budget problem and is currently attempting 
to reduce spending and reallocate funds. 
But take my hometown and state as an 
example: Flint, Michigan (made infamous 
by Michael Moore’s documentary Roger and 
Me). The state of Michigan has recently 
found itself facing a rather large budget 
deficit, immediately after they squandered a
multi-million dollar surplus. The city of Flint 
currently has an outstanding debt of about 
$25 million. Add to that the recent snow­
storm, which left seven inches of snow cov­
ering their roads, and still, the streets were 
cleaned, clear and dry, inside of 24 hours. 
Given this example, any monetary excuses 
made by the city of Pittsburgh, and especial­
ly by Carnegie Mellon University, seem 
somewhat flimsy.
Some may say that there is no compari­
son, since in Michigan worse weather is 
expected more than in Pittsburgh. This is 
simply not true. Although Michigan is cold­
er and may also receive more snow, the 
potential for bad roads and sidewalks is 
much greater in Pittsburgh than in other 
states. Pittsburgh’s temperature at this time 
of year is ideal to cause freezing rain. And 
that of course, leads to either black ice or 
white ice beneath a cover of snow — not 
exactly ideal for driving or walking. The rea­
son Pittsburgh is so likely to receive freezing 
rain is that the temperature tends to hover 
between 30 and 34 degrees Fahrenheit. As 
any physics major will tell you, water tends 
to melt and freeze at 32. So when precipita­
tion falls near that temperature, it leads to 
bad combinations of snow, rain, and sleet.
This problem is present on campus just as 
much as it is in the city. Bad sidewalk condi­
tions here do not result from a lack of salt or
shoveling. The problem is that they are only 
done once, and usually just at the beginning 
of a snowfall. If the snow continues to fall on 
and off for several days, as we saw this past 
week, snow, slush, and ice are simply 
allowed to keep building up underfoot.
It also might be pointed out that there is a 
shortage of salt in the city. Therefore, salt 
prices are higher, but salt certainly is not 
impossible to find. The University of 
Pittsburgh, for one, has done an exemplary 
job of keeping its sidewalks salted and shov­
eled, despite having a campus much larger 
than ours and a lower tuition.
I do not think it is unreasonable to request 
that this university continue to put down 
salt on all commonly traveled sidewalks for 
the duration of a snowstorm. We have the 
budget to accommodate special salt deliver­
ies if none can be found locally. And if it 4s 
too costly or time consuming to continually 
shovel all the sidewalks, then at least to 
shovel off the stairs several times. This is 
more than a petty annoyance faced by stu­
dents; it is something that poses a real dan­
ger to everyone, especially elderly faculty, 
alumni, and visitors on campus.
Lucas Yiannatji (lyiannat@) is the Personnel 
Manager. He wears sandals to class in the win­
ter; and is very apt to notice wet sidewalks. No, 
seriously. «•
Bridget Lewis/Art Editor
MBtX
SAY WHAT?
This week’s guest writers: 
Justin Bishop, Darren Canady 
& Cortney Ricketts
KGB slave auction
On Friday, January 23, KGB held an annu­
al fundraiser that they called “This Space is 
Intentionally Left Blank Auction.” In the 
past, this auction was known as the “Slave 
Auction.” Prior to the event, Student Senate 
was informed of the auction, and became 
angered due to the historical connotations 
of “slave auction.” Senate members 
approached two KGB members in hope of 
understanding how they could host such an 
event. The response was “so many Asians 
and blacks on campus get to do whatever 
they want. Why are we not allowed to do 
what we want... we feel like a minority.” At 
the end of the encounter a derogatory epi­
thet was hurled at the departing senators.
Upon receiving this news, 15 concerned 
students went to silently observe the pro­
ceedings of the “slave” auction. The “slaves” 
auctioned were all female and dressed in 
provocative outfits closely associated with 
dominatrix costumes. One slave observed by 
the protesters was engaged in derogatory 
and vulgar banter with the audience while 
slowly performing a strip tease on the “auc­
tion block.”
This event proved to be troubling on many 
levels. First and foremost, this event showed 
a wanton and willful disregard for the his­
torical meaning encoded in the phrase 
“slave auction.” For a great portion of the 
American population, “slave auction,” no 
matter how innocuous, brings to mind slav­
ery at its cruelest as it tore apart families and 
reduced human beings to chattel. In 
response to this sentiment, a high-ranking 
official of KGB relayed that they were trying 
to reclaim a tragic event by placing humor 
into the situation. This is an absolutely ludi­
crous and atrocious defense of such an 
event. One does not “reclaim” one of the 
darkest periods of American history by 
aping it in an event that those of us who still 
bear the burden of that legacy find offen­
sive. I do not suppose that a mock concen­
tration camp where participants were 
“gassed” in a “light and funny” fashion 
would be met with much approval. Neither 
should this “slave auction.”
Secondly, regardless of whether or not 
auctionees participated of their free will, it 
cannot be denied that this event degrades 
and exploits women. Would you want your 
mother or sister on the block? Just for fun? 
On a more important note, this is not just a 
black/white issue or even one of sexual 
exploitation. Quite simply, this is about 
community standards. To be set aside in this 
community as a recognized organization is
an honor and something that should not be 
abused or taken lightly
The fact that KGB members were heard 
using the term “slave” as protesters waited 
outside and resorted to using the term “auc- 
tionee” when protesters entered, implies 
that coordinators of the event might recog­
nize the hurtful nature of their actions. We 
pay over $35,000 a year for Carnegie Mellon 
to foster a positive community and the type 
of organizations that are recognized by stu­
dent senate reflects CMU’s standards. KGB’s 
actions and responses show an unfortunate­
ly ignorant attitude towards the experiences 
that define this campus and we should hold 
them accountable for their actions.
Obviously, this event was far below the 
standards that the CMU community, from 
the administration on down, has set, and 
hopefully does not fully represent KGB and 
what they are about. But when student orga­
nizations that try to bring positive events to 
campus are struggling for funding and 
recognition, do organizations that engage in 
inconsiderate, insensitive, and inappropri­
ate events need to receive recognition? I'!
Justin Bishop (jbishop@), Darren Canadjr 
(dcanady@), and Cortney Ricketts (cort­
ney©) are seniors in psychology and political 
science, creative writing, and business admin­
istration and French studies, respectively. 
They accept all responsible replies in care of 
The Tartan.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon’s Student Newspaper Since 1906
SENIOR STAFF 
Albert Cohen, Nick Marino
STAFFWRITERS 
Jeannie Choi, Michael Croland, 
Joe Elliott, Ben Hackett, Colin 
Holloway, Teh Seng Keat, 
Alexandra Kilduff, Molly McAshan, 
Jonathan Mendelson, Laura 
Palotie, Rachel Papernick, Lauren 
Sauer, Caleb Stright, James 
Tetlow, Katherine Thompson, 
Cecilia Westbrook, Dinah Winnick, 
Hannah Yi
ART
Sherry Chang, Brian Currens, 
Brenna Ivanhoe, Jennifer Keinard, 
Marina Kliger, Bum Lee, Grace Li, 
Lizza McGregor, Anupama 
Melville, Chris Millet, Laura 
Semesky, Vanessa Shyu, Margaret 
Szeto, Charles Wright
COPY
Catherine Fan, Adina Klein, 
Arthur O’Dwyer
AD STAFF 
Sureena Bhansali, Julian Chun, 
Piya Dey, Ruchika Goswami, Aditi 
Raturi, Puja Talati
JUNIOR STAFF 
Sid Butalia, Erin Danehy, Khalid 
El-Arini, Julia Frederking, Steven 
Goldberg, James Hart, Kirk 
Higgins, Mustafa Khan, Jenny Kim, 
Kryzanowski, Ponnurangam 
Kumaraguru, Nayema Kuddus, 
Rebecca Lee, Will Minton, v 
Stephanie Natale, Amrut Pad, 
Susan Peich, Christina Shin, 
Mukund Sureshbabu, Henry Tsai
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carnegie 
Mellon University. The first issue is free. 
Additional copies can be purchased for $0.25 
each. It is a weekly newspaper published by stu­
dents during the fall and spring semesters. It is 
printed by Western Pennsylvania Printing, Inc. 
Subscriptions are available for the semester or 
academic year. The editorials appearing at the 
beginning of the opinion section are the official 
opinion of The Tartan editorial board. Columns 
and political cartoons are the opinions of indi­
vidual creators. The Tartan reserves the right to 
reject or condense any column or political car­
toon. Letters to the Editor are opinions of 
authors who are usually, but not necessarily, 
members of the University community. A letter 
intended for publication must be signed and 
include the writer's address and phone number 
for verification. Names may be withheld upon 
request. The Tartan requests that letters be no 
longer than 350 words. The Tartan reserves the 
right to condense or reject any letter. Letters to 
the Editor must be submitted by 5 pm the 
Thursday before publication. Copyright © 2004 
by The Tartan. The Tartan editorial board 
reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit for publication. Office: 
University Center Room 314. Phone: (412) 268- 
2111. Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 1017/ 
Carnegie Mellon University/
Pittsburgh, PA 15289-1017.
E-mail:
tartan@andrew. emu. edu 
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress 
ISSN#:0890-3107.
The Tartan is a member of the Associated 
Collegiate Press.
COMICS
Amy Bickerton, Chris Boette, Franz 
Harter, Tim Kelly, Ben Magallon, 
Scott Niekum, Gregory Prichard,
; Bob Rost, Ed Ryan, Rash'an 
Walker, Geoffrey Washburn, 
Daniel Vogel
PHOTO
Jennifer Anttonen, Namtarn 
Chaipan, Anthony DAuria, 
Wenyao Ho, Eugene Hsia, 
Veronique Lee, Su Luo, Matt 
Meurer, Michael Preysman, 
Orathai Sukwong, David Rush, 
Mark Rau, Kathy Saye, 
Shafeeq Sinnamohideen
How did you plan on spending your Super Sunday?
Don Norman
First-year student 
General H&SS
“When’s the Super Bowl?”
Kate Riche
Junior
Information Systems
“There’s a marathon of Charmed on 
TNT. I’m going to watch that.”
Ben Hackett
People are angry at George W. 
Bush and this time they are right. 
Many realize that his budgets are bal­
looning and deficits are reaching new 
highs.
The president, with a Republican 
Congress, is failing to take advantage 
of what could be his final year in 
office. Conservatives should never 
allow spending to expand much 
beyond inflation. Recendy, Bush pro­
posed an $18 million increase, a 15 
percent hike, in the National 
Endowment for the Arts’ (NEA) fund­
ing. This would be the largest 
increase in years. I would like to see 
President Bush cut spending, starting 
with misplaced programs like the 
NEA.
Cutting the increase is not enough; 
but zeroing out the NEA altogether 
should be the course of action. Cut 
the arts? Yes. (And a moan is heard 
emanating from CFA.) Now I want 
you flaky, paintbrush-wielding, 
dyed-hair-sporting troopers out there 
to relax for a second. This is not 
another case of conservatives hating 
the arts, which is a fallacy anyway. 
This is a case of additional improper 
spending, and a government defini­
tional issue as well. Spending has 
already ballooned under the horrid 
Medicare Bill and the unwise Farm 
Bill. Spending, however, is not the 
only issue at hand here. The govern­
ment should not be subsidizing the 
arts.
Similar to religion and any other 
aspects of social life, the government 
has no right to distribute tax dollars 
to these areas. This is blatant social 
engineering. The money diverted to 
the NEA needs not be spent at all, or
; With the Patriots and the Panthers about to play in one of the closest Super
* Bowls in history, we asked:
could be spent on programs that ben­
efit the whole. From time to time a 
handful of conservatives in Congress 
take on the NEA.
However, today they lack the polit­
ical muscle they possessed in the 
mid-1990s. Rightfully, in that period 
the NEA’s budget was slashed. The 
actions were prompted by NEA grants 
to photographers such as Robert 
Mapplethorpe, with his explicitly gay 
imagery. Other “projects” the NEA 
fund include the Sundance Film 
Festival and the famous Andres 
Serrano “Piss Christ” exhibit. Now 
seriously, if this were a direct democ­
racy, would one vote to send their tax 
dollars to these projects? Maybe, but 
that is precisely where the problem 
lies.
Some people would support these 
programs and the NEA, and some 
people would not. However, by tak­
ing tax dollars and putting them into 
the National Endowment for the Arts,
Washington is meddling in social 
affairs. This is the same reason that a 
conservative should not support 
President Bush’s other social engi­
neering initiative, 1.5 billion dollars 
promoting marriage. Congressmen 
Pat Toomey (R-Penn.) tackled the 
issue on Scarborough Country stat­
ing, “I think we should zero out the 
NEA.”
Big government is again invading 
personal choice. Past that, govern­
ment seems to be confused in its 
proper role in American life. The 
invasion of privacy and choice con­
tinues. The depressing state of affairs 
truly shows how far left liberals have 
gone; so far such that moderate con­
servatives have to reach left of center 
to endeavor in securing votes in 
upcoming elections. The electorate is 
having social programs shoved down 
their collective throats. The establish­
ment of government into more and 
more usually personal affairs and
areas in which they formerly were 
absent is an increasingly scary 
notion.
In case the social pacifists out there 
have forgotten, one is not supposed 
to yield choice (read: civil liberties) 
to the big spenders on Capitol Hill. 
Programs where money is taken from 
the public trough and put into partic­
ular social programs such as teaching 
abstinence, promoting marriage and 
promoting the arts, are unconstitu­
tional.
The Constitution survives. And 
while that piece of paper exists, one " 
should stand up against big govern­
ment. Bipartisanship is wonderful, 
but only in pursuit of the public 
good, not in the expansion of gov­
ernment.
Ben Hackett (bhackett@) is a sopho­
more social and decision sciences 
major. He accepts all responsibly 
replies. \
A PERSON’S OPINION
“I’m going to work on my homework “I’m going to watch the Patriots get 
for 18-551.” their ass kicked at KDR on the projec­
tion screen.”
Nere Emiko
Masters student 
ECE
“I only care about halftime. Sex and »
,7 *-~\ • . _the City is at 9 — I’m not going to miss *
that, not for the Super Bowl.”
THE TARTAN • FEBRUARY 2, 2004
Faisal Luqman
Senior
ECE
Aman Kedir
Fifth-year Senior 
Business Administration
Censorship? We don’t need no f***ing censorship
Adam Greenberg
When U2’s Bono exclaimed “Fucking bril­
liant!” at last winter’s Golden Globes, I expect­
ed some backlash: perhaps a fine for NBC, 
which was airing the awards, and a move 
toward the standard five-to-seven second delay 
to prevent such utterances in the future. I never 
expected it to bring the 1978 case of Pacifica v. 
FCC to the surface again.
In Pacifica, the Supreme Court overturned a 
lower court ruling and affirmed the right of the 
broadcast media to air indecent material within 
narrowly tailored restrictions, though still for­
bidding obscene material entirely. Justice John 
Paul Stevens held in his plurality opinion that 
the broadcast in question, a George Carlin 
monologue, though indecent, contained no 
obscenity due to the lack of prurient appeal and 
should therefore be permitted.
Based on this and other decisions, the FCC 
determined that while broadcasts unprotected 
by the First Amendment would still be banned, 
indecent broadcasts would be permitted, 
though they would be limited to overnight 
hours. They further decided that there would 
be a legal penalty for obscene utterances and 
that they could levy fines on the stations and 
owners involved or remove those stations’ 
broadcast licenses in extreme cases.
The primary dissents to the Pacifica case 
were not based on the inability for Congress or 
its commision to regulate free speech, nor the 
loftier goal of regulating what free speech can 
be: they were based on justices not wanting to 
decide cases of such small constitutional impor­
tance. Yes, four justices agreed in one of the two 
dissenting opinions that, whether or not a sin­
gle broadcast was obscene or indecent, the case 
was not under their jurisdiction, because the 
statute itself was not under attack.
In spite of these Supreme Court dissents from 
26 years ago, the FCC’s rules stood, and upon 
examination of the Bono incident from last 
January, the FCC’s enforcement bureau decid­
ed not to penalize NBC or its owners because 
his use of “fucking” was merely an interjectory 
word used to convey degree and not within the 
FCC’s definition of obscene: regarding sexual or 
excretory function.
Now, the leadership of the FCC and one 
House subcommittee on communications are 
calling for Congress to raise the fines for the 
utterance of obscene language and make nar­
rower the definition of when and how indecent 
language is permitted; the FCC is further 
attempting to undermine its own structure with 
leadership calling for a reversal of their own 
department’s verdict on NBC and Bono.
In other words: a federal commission and a 
committee of Congress are supporting contin­
ued and harsher censorship on American air­
waves.
Of course, legally, they have done nothing 
wrong. The First Amendment clearly states: 
“Congress shall make no law ... abridging the 
freedom of speech” and Congress has done no 
such thing. They merely farm the work out to 
the commission they created, and choose the
fines that that commis­
sion metes out.
According to the 1973 
Supreme Court case Miller 
v. California, what is obscene 
or indecent is determined by 
analyzing the material from the 
vantage of an “average person” 
applying “contemporary community 
standards” except that this imaginary 
person and these imaginary standards 
may be determined entirely by the FCC 
working off their own agenda, allowing them 
at a whim to decide what is and what is not per 
mitted.
In today’s society, though, people are con 
stantly surrounded 
with unsolicited 
“obscenity,” 
much of
ty. Exclamations of words or ideas currently 
called obscene deserve just as much pro­
tection as anything else for the contin­
ued safety of the Bill of Rights. 
Congress and the FCC need to real­
ize this, and also that their very 
existence is at the pleasure of 
the citizens they insist on 
censoring.
The judiciary reg-
i r snibroadcasts actually hurt anyone; people do(not 
have the right not to be offended, but how~can 
such an abstract thought as a word be patently 
offensive when it can only mean what we 
define it to be?
No one is directly hurt from the use of pro­
fanity; there is no overarching correlation 
between the use of obscene language and 
obscene behavior. The government seems pal­
pably interested in legislating against obscene 
behavior; however, it seems 
too often that this goal 
is put aside in 
favor
which is in violation of 
the mostly ignored and entire­
ly passé U.S.C. 18, Chapter 71, which was 
affirmed by federal courts in 1957. The code 
limits only profanity where the government has 
strict control — the airwaves, federal property 
and government events; it does not control 
what the public is permitted to say or print out­
side of these parameters.
In order to prevent capricious redefinition of 
what is obscene (effectively allowing ex post 
facto prosecution of offenders) any restrictions 
on the First Amendment need to be eliminated 
except where necessary to maintain public safe-
ularly reaf­
firms that people do not have the right 
not to be offended so long as there are no con­
crete effects of the offending action, yet they do 
not now condemn the archaic restrictions they 
placed on free speech 50 years ago, the same 
cases being cited in quashing free speech 
nationwide.
Pacifica was a ground-breaking case in allow­
ing colloquially indecent material to be protect­
ed by the First Amendment, but otherwise con­
tinued to support censorship of many things 
randomly defined as obscene. What neither 
Congress nor the FCC nor the Supreme Court 
have explained is how these so-called obscene
of regulating 
superficial “obsceni­
ty” such as language, 
even though obscene 
behaviors are far mor^ 
dangerous to the public} 
at large.
Governmental bodies^ 
Sherry Chang/Art Staff including OUT CongteSSj 
cannot continue personal 
crusades at the cost of our 
civil liberties. Otherwise the United States will 
continue to spiral down into the theocratic 
totalitarian state many uninformed and tooa 
easily-offended Americans apparently wish for,
I
Adam Greenberg (agreenbe@) is the Forum 
Editor. He is against censorship everywhere and 
sincerely hopes the Constitution can endur$ 
Congressional ineptitude.
Federal arts-funding programs are unnecessary social engineering

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN • FEBRUARY 2 2004
100FM
wm
:
..V
•%-c
y,
Simple. Ask your employer about Earth Share.^
The workplace giving program that brings the leading
environmental groups under one umbrella. And over 90% 
of Earth Share contributions go directly to the groups. To learn 
more please visit our website at www.carthshare.org.
Women’s team drops two over weekend
WOMEN, from A10
the locker room down 25-24 to the 
’Maroons.
n.K 'Both teams traded buckets for most 
'of the second half, including a jumper 
by sophomore forward Dava 
Sommermeyer over two colliding 
University of Chicago defenders, 
putting Carnegie Mellon up by one 
again with 7:31 left to play. With 3:27 
left on the clock the game was tied at 
48, the Maroons went on a 9-2 run to 
win the game.
“[Friday] night was the best overall 
team play we have had this season. 
Everyone came ready to play and 
stepped it up. Our offense is coming 
together nicely and it was good to see
players come off the bench and con­
tribute. Nora played a great game for 
us,” said Seacat. “We are eager to play 
Chicago again next weekend, but this 
time come out with a victory.” 
Yesterday, on the tail end of a two- 
game home stand, Carnegie Mellon 
hosted the No. 9 Washington 
University (Mo.) Bears, and were 
routed 66-30. The Tartans shot a dis­
mal 24 percent from the field, mak­
ing only 12 field goals the entire 
game. At one point, Carnegie Mellon 
went almost 13 minutes without 
scoring a bucket from the floor. 
Senior center Elizabeth Painter 
ended the drought by scoring a buck­
et off the glass with 12:14 left in the 
game. By then, however, it was too
late to mount a comeback, as the 
Bears sat on their 32-point lead for 
the rest of the game, going on to win 
by 36.
Washington University’s shooting 
(54.2 percent) and fast break 
chances overwhelmed the struggling 
Tartans. Sophomore guard Ashley 
Mazziotta led Carnegie Mellon with 
nine points, while Sinclair added six 
points and five steals. Lesley Hawley 
led all scorers, with 17 points on 
seven for eleven shooting for the 
Bears.
The Tartans will face both the 
University of Chicago and 
Washington University in St. Louis 
again this week as part of a four-game 
road trip.
IIS/I
Administration
Intramural Director: Mike
Mastroianni x8-2214 or mma8@ 
Assistant Director: Mike
Grzywinski x8-2214 or immike@ 
Secretary: Amy Kiryk x8-2053 or 
kiryk@
President: Derek Ritchea
dritchea@
Vice President: Shawn Quinn 
squinn@
Women’s President: Karoline
Evans koe@
Important Dates
Thursday, Feb. 5 — IM Board 
Meeting 1:30 pm in the Gym 
Conference Room 
Thursday, Feb. 19 — Rosters due 
for Indoor Soccer and 3-on-3 
Basketball
Basketball — The road to Skibo 
started last Monday at the UC 
Courts. There are 104 teams play­
ing in the four leagues this year. 
Games are played Monday through 
Thursday nights and Sunday after­
noons. Schedules are available at 
the IM office.
Floor Hockey — The schedules are
available in the IM office. The sea­
son started last Wednesday night 
in the Arena Room.
Spades — Spades playoffs are 
posted at the IM office.
Chess — In the finals of the Chess 
league, the Russian House defeat­
ed AEPi.
All Sports Update (through fall 
sports except spades and foosball) 
Mens: 1. Beta 2217 2. KDR 1725 
3. PiKA 1550 4. ACF 1367 5.
Theta Xi 1067
Womens: 1. Hoopers 2066 2.
Fresh Meat 1817 3. Pioneers 600
If you have any questions call the 
IM office at x8-2214.
Carnegie Melonlit ¡g j
m itti ¡1 11 ;
a imtx
Un&aré&fSi
February 2 February 3 February 4 February 5 February 6 February 7 February 8
MONDAY TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY
WOMEN'S
&ASKEÊTBAIL
Bridget Lewis/Art Editor
e~
We know you write prose and poetry 
,¦ We"know yoti draw and paint 
know you take and edit photos
it to yourself?
azine
Mondays at 5 PM 
Tartan Office Board Room
(UC 314)
: dossier@thetartan.org
Brought to you byTHE TARTAN
Earth ShareOne environment. One simple way to care for it.UgNAND
WOMEN'S
TRACK
MIN'S 
»ASK ÉT S ALL
V

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
Men defeat Chicago, lose to Washington U
Tagliabue lays law in 
annual address
Wingen. The Tartans held Chicago’s 
leading scorer Scott Fisher to 14 
points, while forcing 20 Maroon 
turnovers, seven more than 
Chicago’s season average. The 
Maroons, however, kept the lead for 
most of the second half, until a 9-0 
Carnegie Mellon run in the final 
1:42 put the Tartans ahead for the 
win.
Although Divens had only one 
assist on the night, it was a crucial 
one to Clayton Barlow-Wilcox, 
putting Carnegie Mellon ahead by 
one with 16 seconds left on the 
clock. On the ensuing play, Tartan 
defense forced a Brian Cuttica miss. 
Junior guard Jason Walters got the 
rebound and was fouled immediate­
ly. His two clutch free throws sealed 
the victory for the Tartans.
On his game-winning assist, 
Divens said, “Coach Wingen showed 
a lot of confidence in me letting me 
get the pass and create after not play­
ing a good game. They let me go to 
my left hand and I was able to make 
two guys guard me, leaving Clayton 
open.”
Throughout the game, the Skibo 
crowd kept the home team’s spirits 
up with their overwhelming support.
“The atmosphere in the gym was 
fantastic. It was exciting to play with 
that kind of support from the stu­
dents here. I would hope as we con­
tinue to play well, our school will 
continue to support us the way they 
did last night,” said Kaitz.
On Sunday, February 1, the 
Tartans hosted the Washington 
University Bears, who came into the 
game with a 4-2 conference record 
(13-5 overall). Washington 
University shot over 47 percent from 
the field, including a remarkable 50 
percent from behind the arc. 
Carnegie Mellon, however, only 
made 27 shots in 80 attempts for a 
lowly 33.8 percent field goal per­
centage, including a disappointing
by Khalid El-Arini
Junior Stafjwriter
On Friday, National Football 
League Commissioner Paul Tagliabue 
gave his yearly “state of the league” 
address, promising harsher penalties 
for unnecessary touchdown celebra­
tions in the future.
Extravagant celebration has been 
an aspect of the NFL for the past sev­
eral years, but did not escalate into a 
controversy until two years ago, 
when San Francisco 49ers wide 
receiver Terrell Owens took a pen 
from his sock and used it to auto­
graph a fan’s football after scoring a 
touchdown. Tagliabue promptly 
issued warnings to all 30 NFL teams.
The controversy thrust itself back 
into the spotlight this season when 
the New Orleans Saints’ Joe Horn 
pulled out a cell phone in the end- 
zone during a Sunday night game. 
Horn was fined $30,000 and many 
coaches were outraged, calling for an 
end to unprofessional taunting.
“[I’ve been asked to] take taunting 
out of the game, take unsportsman­
like conduct out of the game,” said 
Tagliabue. “Cell phones, pens, all 
other things... penalties likely will 
escalate if this does not stop.”
The commissioner also addressed a 
federal lawsuit pertaining to Ohio 
State’s Maurice Clarette challenging 
the league’s draft rules.
Under the current system, a player 
must be out of high school for three 
years to be eligible for entrance into 
the league. Clarette has only played 
one full season as a freshman.
“There are no discussions of settle­
ment. It’s a direct point in terms of 
what the rule is and Maurice 
Clarette’s situation falls under the 
rule,” said Tagliabue.
Source: www.nfl.com
Nets to cross the 
river; fans protest
The Carnegie Mellon men’s bas­
ketball team split their two 
University Athletic Association 
(UAA) contests this weekend, beat­
ing the University of Chicago but los­
ing to Washington University in St. 
Louis. The Tartans dropped to a 3-4 
conference record (11-7) overall.
On Friday, January 30, in front of 
a raucous home crowd at Skibo 
Gymnasium, the Tartans beat UAA 
rivals University of Chicago by a final 
score of 64-61. With the win, 
Carnegie Mellon tied their win total 
from last year at eleven, and 
remained undefeated at home. The 
Maroons were one game ahead of 
the Tartans in conference standings 
going into the game, but had a 7-9 
record overall.
“Every game is a dogfight. That’s 
UAA basketball. Chicago doesn’t 
have a great overall record, but no 
game in the UAA is easy,” said head 
coach Tony Wingen. “We came out 
and battled them hard. It was good 
to grind out a win, especially not 
playing our style of basketball,” he 
added, referring to the lack of fast 
break opportunities that have been 
characteristic of the Tartans’ offense 
this season.
The game started well for the 
Tartans, scoring the first 10 points of 
the game. Junior forward Michael 
Divens was on fire early, scoring 
eight unanswered points to put 
Carnegie Mellon on top 10-0. The 
Tartans led throughout the first half, 
until a Justin Waldie jumper put 
Chicago up by two, 33-31, right 
before intermission. Divens led 
Carnegie Mellon with 15 points and 
seven rebounds, and senior guard 
Matt Kaitz added 13 points and 
seven rebounds.
“Our defense was solid,” said
Shafeeq Sinnamohideen/Photo Staff
Junior guard Michael Divens knocks it down over a University of Chicago defender. Divens led the Tartans, scoring 
15 points and grabbing 7 rebounds in Friday’s victory at Skibo Gym.
ly put together a consistent 40 min­
utes of basketball yet. There have 
been spurts, and when we put 
together a complete game we are 
going to be tough to stop. We have 
certainly put ourselves in a good sit­
uation, in terms of wins and losses, 
place in the league, and possible 
post-season play. Now we just need 
to finish strong as a team,” said 
Kaitz.
The Tartans will face both the 
University of Chicago and 
Washington University in St. Louis as 
part of a four-game road trip this 
week.
12 percent from behind the three- 
point line. Although the Tartans 
only led once during the entire 
game, Carnegie Mellon managed to 
keep the game close for all forty 
minutes.
A Washington University alley-oop 
dunk from Barry Bryant to Anthony 
Hollins was the first bucket of the 
game, which propelled the visiting 
squad to a 10-2 run. The Tartans ral­
lied near the end of the first half to 
cut the lead to one, but a Washington 
University 11-2 run put them ahead 
50-40 at the half.
Carnegie Mellon would get as
close as three in the second half, but 
could not put together enough 
offense to take the lead. The officials 
never hesitated to blow their whis­
tles, calling 50 personal fouls, 
including a technical foul charged to 
coach Wingen as he argued a ques­
tionable call against Kaitz.
Barlow-Wilcox had a double-dou­
ble to lead the Tartans with 24 points 
and 11 rebounds. Kaitz and Walters 
added 16 points each. Bryant led all 
scorers with 26 for Washington 
University.
“I think we still have our best bas­
ketball ahead of us. We haven't real-
Women’s woes live on at homeSuper Sundayfor 
Patriots and fans
YankeeNets Inc. and New York 
developer Bruce Ratner solidified an 
agreement which will sell the New 
Jersey Nets for $300 million. Ratner 
hopes ultimately to move the team to 
Brooklyn. Major players in the sale 
were hopeful the deal would infuse 
new life into the franchise and 
increase attendance, but fans protest­
ed the intended move in rallies out­
side Continental Airlines Arena this 
week.
“Until they tell me this is not going 
through, that’s how long I’ll be out 
here,” said protest organizer Mike 
Kozlowski. “Anyone who is willing to 
keep the Nets in New Jersey is my 
friend.”
Ratner cannot move the team until 
an arena is built in Brooklyn, and that 
may not be an easy task. Local resi­
dents and officials predict the con­
struction of a Brooklyn arena will run 
into problems.
New Jersey native and current 
Brooklyn resident Chris Suswal con­
siders the proposed move ridiculous.
“We don’t want homes demolished. 
We don’t want a $2.5 billion complex 
to come in. That’s not what Brooklyn 
is about. It’s about a neighborhood, a 
community,” Suswal said.
Tartans lose two of two conference basketball match-ups over the weekend
by Khalid El-Arini
Junior Staffwriter
ing to pry interest out of the two 
least personable teams in history by 
going so far as comparing Patriots 
“let-the-D-win-it” QB Tom Brady to 
the greatest QB of all time, Joe 
Montana.
Do you see the absurdity that 
results from a two-week hiatus? 
People are hallucinating. It needs to 
stop. Thank God the game starts 
soon.
Well, my plan to carry this ramble 
across four quarters live caught a 
snag when I didn’t have computer 
access, and was too busy indulging 
myself to care.
So here it is, much to my editor’s 
chagrin, a late-submitted recap of 
what you just saw: nice to know, the 
offense decided the game started at 
around 8, while the rest of the world 
was ready at 6:30.
The first 1.5 quarters were dismal, 
and led to some pretty heavy drink­
ing just to get through them. Then 
the Panthers woke up.
I pretty much expected New 
England to come through eventual­
ly, but the job Delhomme and com­
pany did in the last 2.5 quarters 
really amazed me.
As I predicted last week, the pass­
ing game was going to keep them in 
the game. Carolina victimized ex- 
Panther Tyrone Poole on more than 
one occasion en route to a surprising 
explosion and a great second half. 
The running game was just consis­
tent enough to open up a couple big 
plays for the pass, and the Panthers’ 
D stepped up when it mattered the 
most to keep the Patriots on their 
toes.
The momentum had shifted by 
the 3rd and, as my football-sawy 
roommate pointed out, had the 
game gone another quarter then 
Tom Brady wouldn’t have those two 
Lombardi Trophies.
Yet it did not go that one final 
period, and New England continued 
to do just what they needed to pull 
out a victory. Tom Brady, despite a 
spectacularly bad decision to throw 
a pick in the end zone, kept his team 
in the game and duplicated his per­
formance of two years ago by lead­
ing a game-winning drive at the 
end. Vinatieri was sub-par all game, 
but his usual clutch self sealed the 
victory.
Of course none of this should’ve 
happened. As I noted, this game 
would come down to the kickers, 
and the out of bounds debacle of 
John Kasay giving the Pats a short 
field at the end really hurt Carolina’s 
chances of taking it to OT. That is all 
I’ve got space for: I’ll analyze further 
next week, when I’ll be 20 bucks 
richer.
Over the last couple weeks I have 
come to a key realization: two weeks 
is too long between the champi­
onship games and the Super Bowl.
Yes, the teams need time to heal 
up and recover from their playoff 
runs; yes, the coaches need time to 
analyze a team they may not have 
played; and yes, the media needs 
time to recount the same old stories 
over and over again, day in and day 
out.
But man, am I ready to strangle 
someone. The football thirst was at 
peak levels after two great champi­
onship games; I wanted to see the 
Panthers take on the Pats the next 
day.
Now the game has become a back­
drop surrounded by insipid media 
stories, and celebrity-laced Super 
Bowl parties featuring Cristal-sip- 
ping A-listers who probably couldn’t 
even tell you the name of the trophy 
awarded to the victor, all trying des­
perately to hype the contest, unless 
the teams involved are littered with 
the likes of Warren Sapp, Terrell 
Owens, or Keyshawn Johnson who 
salivate at the opportunity to say 
something controversial and stupid. 
Don’t bother with the media hype. 
Just play the game.
But, as I sit mere hours away from 
the game, recovering enough from 
the 225 Morewood soiree that 
rocked Oakland last night to start 
my pre-game consumption, there is 
one thing that stands out as the 
most irritating thing spanning the 
last two weeks: Don Cheadle telling 
me how important the Super Bowl is 
in those ridiculous “butterfly effect 
of Super Bowl moments” commer­
cials.
You know the ones; he preaches 
how different the world would be 
minus one or two key plays, and 
football fans coo with delight.
There is a whole string of them, 
and I wouldn’t be surprised if the 
next one doesn’t transpire as fol­
lows: Cheadle descends from above, 
countenance etched with divinity: 
“How important is the Super Bowl? 
Picture this: Scott Norwood doesn’t 
miss wide right against the Giants. 
An unknown piece of Catholic 
dogma turns up mandating that the 
key piece of evidence for the exis­
tence of God is that He must hate 
the city of Buffalo. God’s existence is 
nullified. The universe ends. That is 
the importance of the Super Bowl.” 
When that one airs, don’t say I didn’t 
call it.
The last two weeks we’ve been 
bombarded by media programs try-
Source: www.espn.com
Shafeeq Sinnamohideen/Photo Staff
Sophomore center Rebecca Shore moves past a Chicago defender en route 
to a tough loss at Skibo Gym.Dodgers deal is done
The sale of the Los Angeles 
Dodgers was unanimously approved 
by all franchise owners on Thursday. 
The team’s previous owners, the Fox 
Entertainment Group, earned $450 
million from Boston developer Frank 
McCourt in the transaction, making it 
the second highest price tag for a sold 
team behind the Boston Red Sox deal 
with John Henry and company in 
2002.
“Family ownership has returned to 
the Dodgers,” said McCourt at a press 
conference. “The era of corporate 
ownership is over.”
McCourt pledged to make changes 
within the organization and restore 
the Dodgers to championship form.
“It’s been 15 years since the 
Dodgers won and that’s too long, so 
we’ll look at every aspect of the orga­
nization,” said the owner. “I’ll sit 
down and talk with everybody and 
give them a chance to make their case 
to me. But I come in with no precon­
ceived notions. We need a singular 
focus and then create some fresh 
ideas.”
Los Angeles have not won a game 
in the postseason since 1988, when 
they were crowned World Champs, 
and have not been to the playoffs 
since 1996.
end of the first half to put the 
Tartans up by one with 2:36 left on 
the clock. However, they went into
in his heat in the men’s 800-meter 
run, behind Carroll and only four 
seconds off pace from the event 
leader.
“We have a huge team this year 
and just about everybody showed 
improvement over last week,” said 
Dario Donatelli, head coach of the 
track teams.
Several of the sprint events saw 
Carnegie Mellon runners succeed, 
including excellent times by junior 
Derek Tong and first-year Russel 
Verbofsky, who both placed with 
near-best times in the 55-meter 
dash, while junior Olivia Tsai fin­
ished second for the women in the 
same event. Other sprinters had 
some trouble with their events 
though.
“The event wasn’t that great for 
most of our people,” said Tong. “The 
turns are tight [at Case Western].”
In fact, the tight turns were the 
reason behind the Carnegie Mellon 
participation. The UAA finals are 
being held at Case and the^coaching
staff felt that it would be beneficial 
to get used to the abnormal condi­
tions at Case Western’s facility.
In field events, junior Matt Dalka 
continued dominating in the high- 
jump by clearing 6' to tie for first. 
Sophomore Jocelyn Sikora finished 
fourth in the women's long jump 
with a leap of 15' even while first- 
year Derek Lampkin placed third in 
the men's event with a jump of 
19'2.5". Two Tartans also placed 
high in their respective shot put 
events, with sophomore Tom Matta 
taking second by only 1 cm, his new 
personal best, and junior Karoline 
Evans taking third.
The event was among the first 
major meets of the season for 
Carnegie Mellon’s track squads, who 
seek another strong showing in their 
conference.
“We believe the whole team is 
going to do well in the UAA this 
year,” said Tong.
The teams next run Saturday at 
Denison University in Ohio.
by Adam Greenberg
Forum Editor
Both of Carnegie Mellon’s track 
teams went to Cleveland on 
Saturday to participate in the Case 
Western Reserve Spartan Relays, an 
indoor event. Also in attendance 
were Case, SUNY — Fredonia, Penn 
State — Erie, and Thiel (Penn.) 
College.
The teams fared well at the meet, 
with long-distance runners once 
again leading the pack. Tartan run­
ner Jared Markowitz finished sec­
ond in the 5000-meter run with a 
time of 15:19.79 and Drea Garvae 
finished second for the women in 
the same event with a time of 
18:55.97. Junior Chris Carroll fin­
ished atop the men’s 1500-meter 
standings with a time of 4:08.76.
In addition, several Tartan run­
ners finished at the top of their sec­
tions within individual events. 
Senior Neil Ardeshna finished best
Source: www.dodgers.com
Compiled by 
Dan Ceppos

---------------------------------------------------

i*Mje City ofMahagonny, BusicAh and more
VOLUME 2. ISSUE 15. 2 FEBRUARY 2004.

---------------------------------------------------

Shafeeq Sinnamohideen/Photo Staff
Bangin’ it hard: Carnegie Steel plays Kirr Commons during Winter Gala last Friday.
STAFF
EDITOR.IN.CHIEF 
MANAGING EDITOR 
PILLBOX CO-EDITORS
COMICS EDITOR 
PHOTO EDITOR 
ART EDITOR 
COPY MANAGER 
PRODUCTION MANAGER
Alex Meseguer 
Jim Puls
Michelle M. Bova 
Evan Sundwick 
Eli Pousson 
J.T. Trollman 
Bridget Lewis 
J.F.P. Auwaerter 
Franklin Williams
Cover by Bum Lee.
The Tartan
Box 1017
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15289-1017
www.thetartan.org
CONTENTS
4° Bassoon Music
CMU alum CD release.
Kafka's Chimp
Quantum Theater’s new show.
gniM los tluu
Music and Drama join forces.
dnfMhine3 v4 wvhimnc
Part 2 of the two week feature.
10c The Perfect Score
MTV’s mainstream subversion.
Xiu Xiu
A dark glance at old Chiná.
UehleMP3bgyTi
Fire Emblem and FFT
.A HvDnpKl­M
Kick-starting comics in need.
¦Qu Calendar
g/aaSc&T 2 oCSvlevy 2004.

---------------------------------------------------

Fresh out of the workshop
Famous printmaker Kathan Brown comes to CMU
Last Thursday at 5 pm, Carnegie Mellon had 
the good fortune to host a lecture given by 
world-renowned printmaker Kathan Brown in 
McConomy Auditorium. Kathan Brown founded 
the printmaking workshop Crown Point Press in 
San Francisco, California in 1962. Crown Point 
Press is known internationally for creating an 
atmosphere for the collaborative efforts among 
printers, publishers, dealers, and many contem­
porary artists. Included in the unique accom­
plishments of Crown Point Press is the revital­
ization of intaglio, an art process involving the 
incision of a design into the surface of hard 
metal.
Over 50 people were in attendance of the 
lecture, including students from University of 
Pittsburgh. The lecture began with a 10-minute 
video showing scenes from a museum exhibi­
tion marking the 3 5-year anniversary of the 
printmaking workshop in 1997. The exhibition 
was jointly sponsored by the Fine Arts Museum 
of San Francisco and the National Gallery. The 
video also presented scenes of famous artists 
(including John Cage, Joyce Kozloff, Vito 
Acconci, and Joan Jonas) working enthusiasti­
cally with the guidance of the printers. Using 
slides of artwork the workshop has printed and 
published, Kathan Brown then gave a speech 
about her profession, her knowledge of print- 
making, and her experience working with a 
wide variety of artists, including sculptors and 
painters.
Brown summarized her experience collabo­
rating with printers and painters by giving an 
account of her encounter with painter Richard 
Diebenkorn, one of her earliest clients.
“The first artist I actually invited that I pub­
lished was Diebenkorn, and that came about 
accidentally,” said Brown. “My friends and I set 
it up. Diebenkorn called me up and said he 
heard about it and would like to do it — at the 
time he was a graduate student.”
She recounted how Diebenkorn was reluctant 
to embrace the etching, a process involving 
preparing metal plates for an impression of a 
design, due to his fear of making the artwork 
“too technical.” She explained how the work­
shop had to work to convince him not to make a 
premature judgment of etching. She noted that 
one of his criticisms of etching was that “you 
can’t see what you’re doing.” However, she said 
guidance from the printers prevailed once 
Diebenkorn witnessed the results.
“You can’t make judgments on etching until 
you’ve seen them. You have to trust it, it comes 
right of our body,” Brown said.
Although she doesn’t believe all artists should 
try working with printmaking if they’re not 
interested, she noted that results of the team­
work were very impressive.
“We can get something that has a rhythm,” 
said Brown. “I was very interested to learn and 
experience this in the studio. Flow really does 
happen. You can really feel when everyone is 
engaged and involved in it.”
There were many interesting details revealed 
to the audience about the printmaking work­
shop. One audience member was surprised that 
the entire workshop composed of entirely 10 
workers — of which four were printers and the 
six others were support staff, including book­
keepers and registrants — and that the work­
shop would give its undivided attention to only 
one artist for several weeks.
“It was an eloquent lecture,” said John 
Beckley, a professor in the school of art. “It was 
informative, historic, and covered 35 years of 
the collaborative relationships between contem­
porary artist and the printmakers.”
This lecture was made possible by a generous 
$25,000 donation by Carnegie Mellon alumna 
Joyce Bowie Scott, who is also a practicing 
printmaker. Part of that donation also went into 
the intaglio studio, which is located in room 
C308 of Doherty Hall. On January 30, Kathan 
Brown also gave a demonstration of the intaglio 
process in the studio from 1:00 to 4:00 pm.
Mary Hood, professor in the school of art, 
commented on her delight that registration for 
the demonstration was full.
“What she’s offering has been well-received,” 
said Hood. “A lot of enthusiasm has been shown 
in her coming.”
Kathan Brown has written several books, 
which include John Cage and Visual Art: To Quiet 
the Sober Mind; Ink, Paper, Metal, Wood: Painters 
and Sculptors at Crown Point Press; and Thirty- 
Five Years at Crown Point Press.
.MnS UMmmMuAw 
rduMon ­syWWTnMsbn
CARNEGIE ALMANAC
JO YEARS AGO
9 February, 1954 — The University’s 12 fraternities engaged 
in the planning of Carnegie Tech’s first Greek Week. The events 
included addresses from nationally recognized fraternal organ­
ization leaders and inter-fraternity-organized service projects. 
The week's events culminated with the annual CFP formal.
25 YEARS AGO
6 February, 1979 — The Undergraduate Student Senate denied 
recognition to Sigma Alpha Epsilon (SAE) after they failed to 
return a series of questionnaires and returned others negligently 
incomplete. While the University continued to recognize their 
charter, Senate’s denial prohibited the chapter from participating 
in such campus events as Spring Carnival.
1Û YEARS AGO
31 January, 1994 — The University’s Space Allocation Board 
finalized room recommendations for organizations’ temporary 
space assignments in the Naval Reserve Center (Old Student 
Center) once the Skibo student center was demolished to make 
room for the new University Center. While larger organizations 
such as AB were given preferential space assignment, smaller 
organizations needed to compete for remaining space.
5 YEARS AGO
1 February, 1999—University Housing announced their decision 
to switch all campus residences to electronic locks by the begin­
ning of the following fall semester. The TESA locks allowed them 
to nearly eliminate the time and cost associated with lock and key 
replacements. While interior doors were converted to TESA, exte­
rior doors remained reliant on traditional keys or attendants tem­
porarily.
1 YEAR AGO
3 February, 2003 — Following an examination of the 
University’s smoking policies, the Smoke Free Housing Task 
Force presented SDC with their recommendations for com­
pletely smoke-free housing and stringent enforcement of the 
existing 20-foot smoke-free zone around housing entrances. 
They further proposed anti-smoking policies in and around aca­
demic buildings to comply with a City of Pittsburgh ordinance.
2slD ThMMoFMhPA tvhID ,snevh
g/aaSc&T 2 oCSvlevy 2004.

---------------------------------------------------

Adamson lecture series:
Linda Gregerson brings poetry full of human passion
Last Thursday, the Baker Hall Adamson Wing host­
ed author Linda Gregerson as part of the Adamson 
Writers Series, presented by the College of 
Humanities and Social Sciences. She was immediate­
ly recognizable, characterized by her forwardly 
friendly mannerisms and bright pink scarf. Before the 
reading began, she busied herself with making intro­
ductions to a few students up in the front rows. 
Students were earnestly doing some last-minute read­
ing of her latest book, Waterborne. The room was 
about two-thirds full of students from different back­
grounds ranging from design to engineering to pro­
fessional writing.
Gregerson stepped up to the podium following a 
glowing introduction which described her as an 
“astute critic” of poetry and literature, an accom­
plished professor at the University of Michigan at Ann 
Arbor, and the recipient of numerous prestigious 
awards, whose collection of poems “are what com­
mands our attention.” She was further described as a 
poignant “teller of tales” and “gorgeous.”
Gregerson has also authored several other works, 
including The Woman Who Died in Her Sleep, Fire in the 
Conservatory, and two books of criticism. Her many 
awards include the Academy Award in Literature from 
the American Academy of Arts and Letters, and the 
Kingsley T\ifts Poetry Award.
She immediately started to relate the background of 
her first poem. “Horses Run Back to their Stalls” was 
about the neighborhood she grew up in and refers to 
an old nursery rhyme she wishes she had written her­
self. She read with the perfected, flowing style of 
someone who has both heard and read many poems 
out loud. Her inflections were varied, with high and 
low tones, and quiet and loud volumes. She looked up 
frequendy, truly reading to the audience instead of 
merely from the page. She seemed to carry an air of 
excitement, as if it were her privilege to present her 
work.
The second poem was “Salt,” before which she 
defined some archaic words and put the audience in 
what she described as a 19th- or early 20th-century 
mindset before delving in to the reading. The audi­
ence sat unmoving, listening to her every word, well- 
placed pauses and transitions. The third poem, “With 
Emma at the Ladies-Only Swimming Pond on 
Hampstead Heath,” is about her daughter in youth. 
The next poem was “No Lion No Moon,” before which 
she gave some background about Prague and the 
Terezin concentration camp. She began by dedicating 
the poem to Stephan Pollack. She read with a hint of 
sorrow, perhaps wrenching the audience’s hearts with 
her words that describe children’s drawings and 
impending death looming over their young lives. The 
fifth poem was written to adopt different sources. 
“Maculate” was an example of elements drawn out
from “other languages” as in the language of the Book 
of Luke. “Cord” — as in a cord of wood — was a 
description of her childhood in Wisconsin and memo­
ries of her mother’s wood stove. She described this 
poem as an elegy to her late father. The final poem 
was written “on-assignment” where she was commis­
sioned to “enter into conversation with a scientist,” 
said Gregerson. She had to pick a scientific subject of 
her choice and gain her background by interviewing a 
scientist of that subject. She chose the subject of C. ele- 
gans, a type of round worm; her scientist won the 
2002 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for stud­
ies of the genetic regulations of the organism’s devel­
opment. She described her poem “Elegant” as an “ode 
to C. elegans.”
“I chose topics based on conversations I had from 
students before the reading. I chose poems with some 
family grounding to be more accessible, and also I 
wanted to read some new ones,” said Gregerson on 
her selection of the seven poems. Gregerson is a Fred 
G. L. Huetwell Professor, which is an endowed chair 
position at the University of Michigan. She currently 
teaches a class on Shakespeare’s plays and a class on 
the English Renaissance history play.
ryubs éynSw 
­syWWTnMsbn
Ezequiel Fainguersch: Bassoon
CMU alumnus forms an unusual classical collection
The self-titled album Ezequiel Fainguersch: Bassoon 
is a compilation built around an instrument that does­
n’t usually receive much limelight. However, former 
CMU resident performer Fainguersch shows that the 
bassoon, often relegated to the ranks of background 
wind instruments, can shine by itself.
Before coming to Carnegie Mellon to participate in 
the Performance Residence program under professor 
Nancy Goeres, Fainguersch studied in Rio de Janiero 
and Buenos Aires, and then earned his Performer and 
Artist Diplomas at Indiana University in Bloomington. 
His CD returns south and features work by four 
prominent 20th-century Latin American composers. 
Ranging from the tango to choral and experimental 
music, Fainguersch proves his versatility again and 
again.
The pieces that best show off Fainguersch’s energy 
and style are a trio of Astor Piazzolla’s tangos, which 
range from sharp to soft. The bassoon seems to fare 
best in simple arrangements, where it can stand out 
on its own and still blend with the accompaniment. In 
the dreamy Años de soledad, Fainguersch shares the
stage with Leor Maltinsky’s shamelessly romantic vio­
lin with gorgeous results. A similar chemistry is struck 
in Cierra tus ojos y escucha. The leisurely pace and 
wistful tune may seem like background music for 
every clichéd film noir moment you’ve ever seen, but 
the performer’s skill is not undermined. In the tradi­
tional tango Adiós niño, however, Fainguersch takes 
center stage, wailing like a saxophone. It’s clear he’s 
having as much fun as a bassoonist can have (which is 
apparently a lot).
Heitor Villa-Lobos’ Ciranda das sete notas and 
Gerardo Dirié’s “Tonos del arcangel” belong on the 
more experimental end of the spectrum.
Ciranda das dete notas is at 12 minutes the longest 
composition on the CD, and is divided into roughly 
three parts. Based on a popular Brazilian folk dance, 
Ciranda focuses heavily on strings. In certain parts, 
the bassoon seems almost an afterthought, but in one 
brief segment, complemented only by two repeating 
notes of a bass, it sends shivers down the listener’s 
spine. The ascending scale at the end, falling short of 
the last note, seems to cement the experimental, ten­
tative nature of the work.
Gerardo Dirie’s four choral 
songs have the same modern, 
informal quality. A concept 
piece based on the battle of 
the archangel Michael 
against a dragon, the four 
short songs feature a xylo­
phone, bongo drums, and a 
female choir. They are the most unusual works on the 
album, and even if there is litde room for Fainguersch 
to play around, he does show off his technical skill.
Beginners to classical music might not want to start 
with this eclectic collection, either, and honestly, you 
really have to like the bassoon. But if you are interest­
ed in distinctive, unusual music by lesser-known com­
posers, this would be a worthwhile investment. If you 
are a bassoon player, this CD is a necessity.
gPbHyuBny .MPBdWWw 
­syWWTnMsbn
4g/aaSc&T 2 oCSvlevy 2004

---------------------------------------------------

% movie
by evan sundwick, 
pillbox co-editor
Theatrical monkey business
Kafka lets the apes out of the cage.
According to Darwin, we descended from the chim­
panzees. Kafka took it one step further. In his allegori­
cal story “A Letter to the Academy,” a man relates the 
story of how he was once a chimp himself; after being 
captured on the Gold Coast of Africa, an ape called 
Red Peter is “civilized” by a group of scientists, joins 
their ranks, and finally lectures them on his unique 
condition. In Quantum Theatre’s Kafka’s Chimp, this 
parable — or is it a satire? — is retold in operatic form.
Kafka’s Chimp was spawned in the 1980s from com­
poser John Metcalf’s time as Artistic Director and 
Composer-in-Residence of Banff Music Theatre at the 
Banff Center for the Arts in Canada. Metcalf and libret­
tist Mark Morris have created an oddly mixed breed 
here; musically, this is pure modern American opera, 
but the plot and characters seem to belong more to the 
page than to the stage. Director Karla Boos, founder of 
Quantum Theatre, brings out the brighter parts of this 
jumbled story with clever, humorous staging, but it’s 
the combination of all its quirky elements that earns 
this show its stripes.
In a prison-like animal lab, the Director (bass 
Michael Douglas Jones) is in the process of proving to 
his colleagues at “The Academy” that he can teach an 
ape to be a man. But from almost the very beginning, 
his subject, Red Peter (baritone Richard Morris), is not 
just more man than ape — he’s more civilized than 
most of the other characters. As he is mainstreamed, 
moves into an apartment, and begins to “see people,” 
Red Peter begins to develop feelings for one of his war­
dens, a white-coated spinster named Kaye (soprano 
Laure Maloy). Kaye tries to resist, but is drawn to the 
transforming ape-man, and chats about this attraction 
with her strange coworker Frieda, who also hears the 
call of the wild. Apparendy, the one good thing about 
being an ape-man is that your charisma makes all 
women deeply “curious” about you.
As Peter and Kaye fumble through their inter-species 
relationship, dancers Peter Kope and Michele de la 
Reza provide dangling, fur-trimmed images of the pri­
mal male and female. The dancers mingle with the 
audience at times, dangling and clinging to scaffolding 
railings quite near to the spectators. At other times, the 
ape-dancers traipse around imitating people, perform­
ing goofy, sexy gymnastics that remind us how apelike 
people really are. Their presence is a constant 
reminder of the inner apes in Peter and Kaye, a wild­
ness that both threatens and drives their relationship.
Set designer Tony Ferrieri has illustrated this con­
flict perfecdy. Two levels of metal scaffolding wrap 
both the playing space and the seating gallery into a 
big double-decker donut — Shakespeare’s Globe made 
out of monkey bars. The second tier is Kafka’s office, 
where the Director pecks at his typewriter. 
Downstairs, the upstage harbors musicians while the
Courtesy of Laura McCarthy
Richard Morris filled the role of the play’s titular primate, Red 
Peter.
downstage area becomes an office, a living room, and 
a restaurant. Nothing is masked; we see every 
entrance and exit. C. Todd Brown, who teaches light­
ing design in the drama department, lights our way 
through this transparent world — his design calls no 
attention to itself, but blends into the show’s timing 
with a simple, measured grace.
CMU musicians make up more than half the musical 
ensemble; pianist Donna Amato teaches in the music 
school, where percussionist Sergio Carreno did his 
undergraduate work, along with tenor Joe Haughton. 
Double bass player Gabriel Katz and music director 
Nizan Leibovitch got masters degrees at CMU, and per­
cussionist Jeff Luft is working on his; violist Dolores 
Nycz and violinist Daniela Shtereva work out of the 
school of music as well. All are elegant and competent, 
filling the strange role of half-actor-half-musician with 
charm and precision.
Each aspect of the show proves anew that context is 
everything (and, at the same time, nothing). Quantum 
Theatre’s itinerant productions never take place in a 
theater at all — Kafka’s Chimp inhabits a room in the 
Education Complex at the Pittsburgh Zoo. The show 
runs through February 12. See or call 412.394.3353 
for more details.
lbPyuMb éoPyuMRSw 
lousnMDdsMum tBMson
Jackie Brown
Y INbBubAByêw /w7=w yuB 7?O
So it seems like it’s Quentin Tarantino week for AB 
Films. First up is Jackie Brown, which is apparent­
ly a typical Tarantino movie, with lots of characters 
and plots, kind of like Pulp Fiction. Only probably 
not as cool. Samuel L. Jackson is in this one — he’s 
a gun smuggler — and I bet he’s a serious badass.
Reservoir Dogs
IhvdnAByêw /w7=w yuB 7?O
More Tarantino! Blood, guns, profanity, and gore — 
this was Tarantino’s first major release and it’s 
already practically an archetype. It follows a bunch 
of strangers who try to pull off a diamond heist 
before everything goes to hell. Steve Buscemi is in 
this one, and I’d be willing to bet a few bucks that 
he mentions little girls or something. He always 
does.
Kill Bill, Vol. 1
IcnMByêw a><=w7=w yuB 7?><=O
Apparently Tarantino used more than 450 gallons of 
fake blood between this and Volume 2. Do you have 
any idea how many gallons that is? This movie was 
so bloody they had to make part of it black and 
white to avoid NC-17. THAT is hardcore. It's also 
got an awesome soundtrack. Its badass quotient is 
unfortunately lacking, except that Lucy Liu is the 
hottest Yakuza boss EVER.
Intolerable Cruelty
I­ysdnByêw /w7=w yuB 7?O
This isn’t a Tarantino movie. If it was it would be so 
much better. But it’s not — unfortunately it’s just a 
romantic comedy by the Coen Brothers. It doesn’t 
really matter what it’s about. George Clooney and 
Catherine Zeta-Jones star, and they fall in love or 
something. I don’t know, but it can’t really be that 
simple since the Coen brothers are really weird. I 
mean, come on, did you SEE O Brother, Where Art 
Thou?Ta\k about bizarre....
Pulp Fiction
I­duByêw /w7=w yuB 7?O
What can I say about Pulp Fiction? It’s a classic. 
Samuel L. Jackson and John Travolta are a couple 
of hit men that get caught up in a crazy web of mis­
adventures. If you haven’t seen this yet, you NEED 
to. John Travolta is actually good in this movie, and 
Samuel L. Jackson is badass to the extreme. So 
cool.
SprringB e akicutcl eyy\B

---------------------------------------------------

Rise and Fall of the City of Mahagonny:
Opera combines strong voices and social commentary to achieve success
As the cold, cruel winter breeze continued to stran­
gle the campus grounds into quiet suffocation, the 
Purnell Center was remarkably alive and breathing. 
Charged by the voices of escaped convicts and prosti­
tutes, the building’s insides shook last weekend as if 
the Philip Chosky stage had been taken under siege. 
Yet, the rowdy spectacle was all going according to 
plan, that is to say, according to script.
Serving as the third installment of the drama 
school’s Money Season, The Rise and Fall of the City of 
Mahagonny lured audiences into early 20th-century 
German playwright Bertholt Brecht’s capitalist para­
dise gone wrong.
“We constructed the [2003-2004] season in the 
drama school to explore issues of commerce and the 
impact that the preoccupation with profit has on soci­
ety. And looking for important musical work that 
appropriately reflected that theme, it’s pretty hard to 
find something more important or seminal than The 
Rise and Fall of the City of Mahagonny,” explained head 
of the drama school Elizabeth Bradley.
The performance, directed by drama professor 
Gregory Lehane and conducted by music professor 
Robert Page, ventured into the fictitious land of 
Mahagonny, where money is King, and city dwellers 
are subject to his tyranny.
It is in this metropolis of seduction, desire and hedo­
nism, this bastard child between Vegas and Dante’s 
Inferno, that lead protagonist Jimmy MacIntyre 
(Jonathan Monk/Graham Fenton) learns the truth 
behind his damning words — that the “most frighten­
ing force is man.”
But aside from the show’s arguably radical look on 
capitalism, another element of “radicalism” surround­
ed the show — it was the first collaboration between 
the drama and music schools in decades.
“Drama faculty directors and students have worked 
on music school projects, and a few music school stu­
dents have appeared in drama school musicals, but 
this is the first time since the 1970s where performers 
from the two schools have collaborated on a jointly 
produced project,” commented Lehane.
The production evolved into a cooperative project 
once the drama school realized Brecht’s opera was too 
overwhelming to execute alone, according to Bradley.
“The production needed the specific skills of both 
groups, in leadership and execution. I couldn’t con­
ceive of having done it unless the school of music was 
interested in it.”
Alan Fletcher, head of the school of music, viewed 
the opera as a marriage between two “world- 
renowned programs involving musical theater with 
different, but complementary emphases.” Yet, with 
such a daunting task to coordinate, some were wor­
ried about how the students of both schools would 
approach the challenge.
“I think the music students could have wondered 
whether the drama students would actually be able to 
do justice to the extent of musicianship that was 
required for this serious piece of opera. And the 
drama students, for their part I think, wondered 
whether the music students could build a role and if 
they could really tell a three-dimensional story,” said 
Bradley.
For the students, auditions for the twenty roles (in 
which the leads were double-cast) began as early as 
last spring, while preparations, such as scenery and 
costume designs, were in the works since the begin­
ning of fall.
While acting and musical preparation spanned the 
typical duration of a straight production — about five 
weeks — the schedule was rather demanding for a 
work of such breadth as Mahagonny, according to 
Lehane.
“It was a major accomplishment for both the orches­
tra and singers, as we had more limited rehearsal time 
this year. The music, particularly for the singers, was 
far more challenging than most other operas,” 
explained violinist Kate Hatmaker.
But despite some “organizational challenges,” the 
union between the two schools was “tremendously 
easy” on the student level, according to Lehane. “It 
was a chance for both of them to learn from and feed 
off each other.”
Detailing the benefit of this distinguished opportu­
nity, Hatmaker noted that it was “stimulating as it 
exposed us, as students, to a genre of musical compo­
sition with which we might not have come into con­
tact otherwise.” The score, orchestrated by composer 
Kurt Weill, contained a mélange of jazz, folk, cabaret, 
and classical elements.
In addition to the experience of successfully pro­
ducing an opera, many also gained something from 
the play’s deeper themes and relevance.
“Fundamentally the play is a critique of making a 
god of money, which the ‘radical’ Bible objects to,” 
joked Lehane. “With all the recent financial scandals, 
it doesn’t seem so untimely, but in fact, it may be time 
for us to think a little critically about what’s up in the
moment in our society.”
For co-leading actress and senior drama student 
Elizabeth DeRosa, the impact was more personal.
“Working on this production gave me so much wis­
dom in so many different ways,” commented DeRosa. 
“For one thing, the work is such a dark, political, and 
almost negative piece. Naturally, I’m a positive, opti­
mistic person, and working on this play gave me much 
more perspective.”
For Bradley, however, Mahagonny’s entire body of 
opera — the acting, the music, and the message — 
captured an experience far too difficult to describe. 
“The insights on man’s preoccupations are thoughtful 
and moving, and the musical prism that we’re encoun­
tering this through is very strong and wonderful 
stuff.”
The epic experience crafted by Brecht and Weill, 
welcomes the audience with a seemingly unusual 
opening for an opera — with a pack of orange-suited 
convicts, headed by Leokadja Begbick (Annabeth 
Novitzki/Helen Karloski), on the run. As the play 
explains, the fugitives Fatty and Trinity Moses (played 
by Brookes Decker and Nathan Hylan), with little 
hope and far less money, scheme to create their own 
personal refuge - a city that offers men all they want 
as long as they can supply the cash. Boldly, Begbick 
casts aside any doubts over the plan by declaring, “it’s 
easier to get gold out of men than rivers.”
Enter Jimmy — a lad with a swagger to lead, a voice 
to follow, and a carefree attitude — and his equally 
sex-driven, alcohol-thirsty companions (played by 
Andrew Gehling, Joel Herold, and Zachary Prince). 
Upon entering the city, the boys are welcomed by 
Begbick, and much more to their liking, by the girls of 
Mahagonny. But as the men soon learn, everything 
has a price, as leading lady Jenny (Elizabeth 
DeRosa/Sara Ford) explains to the boys, “My mother 
always told me, never sell yourself... for 30 dollars.”
As the piece progresses, Jimmy and Jenny’s rela­
tionship becomes curiously closer, as Jimmy asserts to 
a concerned Jenny, “You look fine as you are.” But not 
surprisingly, Jimmy's libido quickly encourages him to 
sweetly add one little suggestion, “But skip the 
undies,” producing the biggest laughter until that 
point.
But despite this new life, Jimmy feels discontented, 
stifled by the city’s many, many rules. Even after being 
whisked away to the As You Like It Hotel, whose sur­
real atmosphere was captured by Hyoung Yeon Kim’s 
lighting design and Meng-Hua Lim’s Chopin-like play­
ing, Jimmy is not impressed. This frustration is splen­
g/aaSc&T 2 oCSvlevy 2004.

---------------------------------------------------

J.T. Trollman/Photo Editor
The Glutton, flanked by the Green Giant and Colonel Sanders, as another fast-food vendor of the past looks on.
With a second chance handed to them, the town is 
able to employ Jimmy’s motto — “just do it!” — and 
the audience soon became witness to the horrors of the 
transformed city. The opera cycles through a showcase 
of the city’s newly acquired vices, from gluttonous eat­
ing to boxing to free love.
As the operatic circus continues, Jimmy soon gets 
what he paid for, or that is to say, what he didn’t pay 
for. After failing to honor his drinking tab, Jimmy is 
soon taken to Mahagonny’s courts. Here, Begbick, 
whose robe symbolically enwraps her entire judical 
bench, finds Jimmy guilty, asserting that “there is no 
greater criminal than a man who has no money.”
Ultimately, the opera hits a moment of tragedy and 
entanglement as Jenny refuses to help her lover by pay­
ing his bill. This bold exhibition of money over love is a 
snapshot of Brecht’s commentary, and is later cement­
ed in the title of one of the final scenes: “Death for 
Jimmy, because even you in the audience would not 
pay Jimmy’s bill, because money has such a great 
respect in our time.”
“The role of Jenny is probably one of the most diffi­
cult to understand of all the characters,” stated junior 
drama student Sara Ford. “When asked to help out 
Jimmy, she refuses and puts up a nasty shell to show 
that she only cares about herself. Elizabeth DeRosa 
and myself had many long talks about her with Greg.... 
[We] really helped each other in discovering who she 
is, and basically, she’s just human. She’s probably the 
most human of them all.”
And, seemingly, for that same reason — for being 
human — Jimmy MacIntyre is sentenced to death. 
Drenched in fatal unluckiness, alone on the stage, the 
hopeless young man spits out a monologue before his 
execution — “Freedom of money is not freedom at all.
I ate, but I’m still hungry, I drank, but I’m still thirsty.” 
Sadly, as this historic performance on the Philip 
Chosky Theater demonstrated, happiness cannot be 
bought, or if it can, it does not come cheap.
edAsyWy .vyuw 
rduMon ­syWWTnMsbn
didly evidenced by the plethora of rules that hang from 
the ceiling of the hotel, weighing Jimmy down.
“Approaching the role of Jimmy MacIntyre held 
many challenges,” explained junior Graham Fenton 
about the complexity of his character. “Dramatically, 
director Greg Lehane helped us realize that in Brecht, 
nothing really needs to be put on. The text does most 
of the work for you.”
Though feelings of alienation and restlessness con­
tinue to trouble him, Jimmy soon turns things around. 
By capitalizing on fears of an approaching hurricane 
that could wipe out the city, Jimmy, with a lot of for­
tune — figuratively, not literally — is able to convince 
the entire town to abandon all their rules and live 
freely.
Luckily for the Mahagonnians, the hurricane passes, 
but not before damaging several nearby towns, as evi­
dent in the performance’s most receptive segment, 
where the cast comically acted out the destruction of 
the storm with the aid of plastic toys.
g/aaSc&T 2 oCSvlevy 2004.7

---------------------------------------------------

Diversity of worship
Courtesy of MSA
Members of MSA at a social picnic last year.
scholars to Hunt Library. Students at CMU would then 
have the opportunity to read these books and hope­
fully gain a greater understanding of Islam. This will 
not necessarily ensure that all non-Muslims on cam­
pus will experience what is in these books, but it is a 
step towards the goal.
Both Choudhary and Shakir became involved with 
MSA very early on in college. Choudhary saw a poster 
advertising the group which sparked his involvement. 
He said that most people meet MSA representatives at 
the activities fair and work from there. Outside the 
organization, said Shakir, many do things with each 
other and are close friends.
Students have the option to increase their involve­
ment with MSA by volunteering to give the sermons 
that accompany Friday prayer or to teach about them, 
Choudhary said. The students who participate in MSA 
find the tools to keep religion in their lives even while 
they are busy with the high-pressure college work­
load.
MSA hopes to expand its influence, taking cues 
from the larger branch at Pitt. Choudhary and Shakir 
referenced an event called the “Ramadan Fast-a- 
Thon,” which took money saved during the month­
long fast that accompanies the Islamic holiday and 
gave this money to a charitable cause. Choudhary and 
Shakir are hoping to implement more events like this 
in the year to come.
OM, the organization for Hindus, Jains, and Sikhs 
on campus, helps bring a variety of influences from 
these South Asian religions to CMU. OM is not an 
abbreviation, but rather is a word defined as “the 
sound of creation” according to the OM website. Anuj 
Soni, a junior in information systems, is president of 
OM. His involvement spans back to his first year at 
CMU, when he was elected first-year representative of 
OM — he worked his way up from there.
Muslim and Hindu groups on campus
°While Carnegie Mellon’s administration likes to 
focus on ethnic and racial diversity, some of the wide 
variety of religions and religious groups on campus 
are overlooked. This week, we’ll take a look at the 
Muslim Student Association (MSA) and OM, a south 
Asian religious organization, relating their contribu­
tions to the campus religious community.
Quite often, religious diversity accompanies cultur­
al diversity, which may account for the many organi­
zations on campus that cater to the religious or cultur­
al needs of the students. Students interested in a reli­
gion to which they were previously unexposed are 
almost always welcome to sit in on the various events 
held by the groups. Religious organizations make it a 
primary obligation to assist students who belong to 
the group and the religion, but they also provide an 
occasion to observe and even participate in events 
based around different religions.
The Muslim Student Association enables Muslims to 
practice on campus, one of the group’s primary goals. 
Salahuddin Choudhary and Nader Shakir, first-years 
in SCS and SHS respectively, are the acting co-presi­
dents of the MSA. According to Choudhary, day-to- 
day life in Islam is not separate from religious life. 
MSA is a group primarily concerned with facilitating 
Muslim worship on campus. Friday prayer, which in 
Arabic is called jummah, is something required for 
Muslims in the same way that church on Sunday 
would be for a Christian. Just before Friday prayer 
there is a kutbah, or sermon that accompanies the
prayer. One of the most important things that MSA 
does is provide a location where the Friday cere­
monies can take place each week on campus.
MSA is looking at many projects to extend the focus 
of the organization to other areas. In its current state, 
many of the events involve Muslim students at the 
University of Pittsburgh as well as at CMU. One of the 
ways that the organization helps to connect Muslims 
in the Pittsburgh area is through the halaqah, a social 
gathering which occurs bi-weekly, intended to 
increase knowledge and understanding of the Muslim 
faith. These events occur separately for men and 
women. The sisters’ halaqah encourages Muslim 
women in all areas of Pittsburgh to attend, and the 
male halaqah advocates similar participation, though 
concentrating on CMU and Pitt students. These 
events help to strengthen the Muslim community not 
only at CMU but in the surrounding areas as well. As 
with all events in Islam, said Choudhary, this event is 
open to the public. During the halaqah, pertinent sub­
jects, such as translations of Islamic texts, are dis­
cussed. This community development is the second of 
MSA’s main goals and reflects the goals of many other 
religious organizations as well.
The third goal of MSA, as Choudhary mentioned 
along with the others previously stated, is to educate 
non-Muslims about Islam, which is a fairly large task 
for any size of organization. To help the association 
continue to work towards this end, some MSA leaders 
are attempting to provide books written by Muslim
People dancing happily at Navratri, the Hindu holiday which takes place during the fall.
Courtesy of OM
©
g/aaSc&T 2 oCSvlevy 2004.

---------------------------------------------------

is able to come and relax in such an environment. 
Also, many people who are not on campus, but prac­
tice Hinduism, Jainism, or Sikhism nearby, attend the 
Vedanta lectures.
Soni emphasized how involved the members of OM 
are in the events.
“It’s more than just a festival, they really do care 
about the organization,” said Soni, speaking of the 
many volunteers who offer to set up for various gath­
erings or to do other odd jobs.
In addition to volunteering, students are able to tell 
the board what they feel there is a need for. Often, OM 
organizes for groups of students to go to temples 
around Pittsburgh to worship in a more formal set­
ting. A member or a group of people might simply e- 
mail one of the board members and indicate the need 
to take a temple trip (which generally takes place once 
a month), and from there the leaders in OM will try to 
make this possible. As Soni stated, the regularity with 
which certain events happen is all up to the members.
One of OM’s primary goals is to be of service to its 
members, even if this help does not directly involve 
teaching about South Asian culture or religion, 
according to Soni. OM simply makes the effort to facil­
itate the practice of South Asian religions and to 
showcase the culture that accompanies this worship.
The organizations touched on are simply a few of 
the many at CMU. Each has a commitment to bringing 
people together on campus; several mentioned com- 
munity-building specifically. For those who might 
find pleasure in these groups, or for anyone who may 
feel that they wish to rekindle their faith in the reli­
gion they were raised with, they are available.
To a spiritually conscious member of the campus, a 
wide variety of religious groups open their doors to 
welcome and teach the tenets of their faith. Religious 
groups have the potential to teach about cultures, to 
broaden world views, and help foster understanding. 
They are simply one more option for students who feel 
the need to be involved in the full college experience.
eMRvbPPb e^ —o'yw 
éMPPDoH loktBMson
“Basically, when I came here ... I really wanted to 
become involved— There was no South Asian group 
in my high school,” said Soni. There are three main 
South Asian groups on campus: OM, the South Asian 
Student Association (SASA), and Mayur, but the latter 
two deal mainly in cultural and/or social events, 
while OM is the only organization that is related to 
religion. OM holds a great variety of events during the 
year, everything from what Soni described as “little 
tiny Pujas” which are prayer times, to large holiday 
festivals like Navratri. Prayer is one of the most essen­
tial parts of these religions. Many of the festivals are 
characterized by dance or song. In these three South 
Asian religions, dance is a traditional form of celebra­
tion. According to Soni, the larger events at OM can 
attract hundreds of people.
However, for smaller groups there are many events, 
such as lectures on the Vedas (sacred Hindu texts) 
every other Monday, as well as Sunday meditations at 
different points throughout the semester. OM also 
helps bring people together in more informal ways
through screenings of Hindi movies.
One of the unique aspects of OM is that it provides 
services for students of three different religions, 
rather than a single one. Soni discussed how the 
group attempts to balance the treatment of each reli­
gion. Hindus, Jains, and Sikhs share their place of ori­
gin, but there are distinctions between them, though 
different people have different conceptions of what 
those distinctions are. Having to ensure that no group 
feels favored is a great challenge for Soni and other 
members of the board. He said that one of the main 
concerns is trying to satisfy everyone’s needs. It 
seems, however, that there is harmony among the 
groups.
In efforts similar to those of MSA, the board of OM 
helps to encourage students not of south Asian origin 
to become involved. Soni spoke happily of how many 
people not directly involved in OM came to the 
group’s meditation sessions. Events like these have 
mass appeal, attracting audiences outside of OM; one
"Bridget Lewis/Art Editor
g/aaSc&T 2 oCSvlevy 2004.

---------------------------------------------------

film
Bus 174
A chilling documentary on the life of a man past the edge
José Padilha’s documentary Bus 174 chronicles the 
life of Sandro do Nascimento, the mysterious, tor­
tured man who hijacked a bus in Rio de Janiero in 
June 2000. Initially, Nascimento simply wished to rob 
the bus. Fearful of being arrested and taken back to 
prison, he snapped and took six hostages. What 
ensued was a day-long series of frenzied negotiations 
that were broadcast live on television.
Bus 174 combines news footage and interviews with 
hostages, police, and Nascimento’s friends and family 
to reconstruct and understand the event. Through its 
analysis of this single man’s unfortunate situation, 
Bus 174 creates a vivid picture of the general despera­
tion and hardships that plague the myriad homeless 
that inhabit the streets of Rio de Janeiro.
Bus 174 alternates between footage of the crime and 
an examination of Sandro do Nascimento’s life. 
Interviews with his friends, his aunt, and his social 
worker all provide the pieces of his life story. When he 
was eight, his pregnant mother was stabbed to death 
with a kitchen knife. He never knew his father. 
Desperate to get away from a home that reminded 
him of the traumatic murder of his mother, 
Nascimento took to the streets.
He survived abuse by the police, extensive drug use, 
starvation, and repeated stints in a truly heinous jail. 
One of the most moving scenes, shot with a digital 
camera in negative art (inverting the colors in the 
image), shows the inside of Rio de Janeiro’s most dis­
gusting prison. Prisoners, roasting in 100 degree heat, 
must sleep standing up in tiny, feculent cells.
The effect of using negative art is surprisingly 
effective, making the prisoners look almost ghostlike 
as they decry the Brazilian prison system and beg the
cameramen not to leave them. It becomes clear why 
Nascimento would rather die than return to this 
place.
Between interviews and footage, the audience is 
exposed to shots of Nascimento inside the bus, threat­
ening his captives with a pistol and screaming to the 
police, “What do you think this is, an action movie?!”
It is unusual for a documentary to maintain such 
heightened suspense. The more that is revealed about 
Nascimento, the more compelling the film becomes. 
The film does not condone his actions, but its dramat­
ic depiction of his brief, unhappy life provides the 
audience with some idea of his motivations.
Of particular interest are the interviews with the 
hostages, who hold little ill will towards their captor. 
At one point, a young student who tried to befriend 
Nascimento during the incident states that of all of 
the people on the bus, Nascimento was the greatest 
victim.
The film is most effective at using one incident to 
examine a much larger topic: corruption and poverty 
in Brazil. Of all the hardships endured by Nascimento, 
the most trying was probably his invisibility.
Although there are almost a million homeless peo­
ple in Rio, they might as well be invisible. The hijack­
ing of bus 174 was more than just about money; it was 
a desperate attempt to become visible. In this, 
Nascimento was successful; his crime was seen by mil­
lions of people.
Bus 174 suffers from the common problems of doc­
umentaries. It is edited in such a way that chronolog­
ical order is sometimes confusing. By the end of the
film, the order of the events leading up to the hijack­
ing is not very clear. At a certain point, however, it 
really doesn’t matter.
Some parts, particularly the examination of the 
prison system, are a bit redundant. At 122 minutes, 
Bus 174 probably could have stood to have some of its 
repetitive parts edited. The material is so interesting 
and stylishly presented, however, that the flaw is for­
givable. Bus 174 is neVer boring, and, for those of us 
who are not familiar with the hijacking, the ending is 
a surprise.
The film makes its message blatantly clear without 
being didactic or overdone. It is clear that Padilha has 
very strong feelings about the appalling conditions in 
Rio, and it is laudable that he refrains from excessive 
moralizing. In the end, Bus 174 succeeds both as a 
real-life action movie and as a cautionary tale. It 
warns of the desperate acts that human beings can 
commit when they are abused and ignored by society.
Bus 174 is in Portuguese with English subtitles
Directed by Jose Padilha and Marcos Prado 
Photographed by Cesar Moraesand Marcelo Guru.
Produced by HBO/Cinemax Documentary Films
eoPPê eRgAvyuw 
­syWWTnMsbn
Not quite a Perfect Score
Stealing answers makes you smarter, we swear!
Teens are MTV’s main target audience; thus, MTV 
tries to incorporate the frustration of young people in 
the station’s clearly effective marketing strategy. 
MTVs ad campaign portrays frustrated, rebellious 
teens and comments, “Someday you’ll really escape. 
Until then, there’s MTV.”
Espousing a similar philosophy, a new series of 
commercials plays off the fears of conservative par­
ents and, with a humorous tone, shows MTV as the 
reason for teenage rebellion with a slogan: “Blame 
MTV.” MTV Studios’ newest release, The Perfect Score, 
fits well with these campaigns; it too follows teens 
angry at “the system” and various authorities.
Heavily promoted on MTV for the past month, the 
film portrays the SAT as the embodiment of societal 
prison bars that wish to control the individualistic 
spirits of young people.
Although a film about the SAT does not, at first
glance, sound appealing, the premise is in fact very 
appropriate for a film produced by MTV. After all, 
most students dread the SAT and swear that the test is 
an unfair measure of any ability other than one’s abil­
ity to take a standardized test. Many high school sen­
iors see the SAT as the only boundary that keeps them 
from achieving their dreams.
Even though the status that the SAT holds in our 
minds radically diminishes after high school, many 
remember the time when this dreaded test reached 
exaggerated psychological proportions.
The Perfect Score is yet another spin-off of the epic 
struggle between an individual and the society in 
which he lives. The film brings together six teenagers 
who all embody familiar high school stereotypes, 
including the stoner, the overachiever, and the jock. 
All being unfairly punished by the system, the six find 
comfort in one another, overcome their differences, 
and decide to fight back.
If this storyline sounds familiar, it is because The 
Breakfast Club made it famous nearly twenty years 
ago. The Perfect Score makes a clear reference to this 
earlier film, and in many ways seems to want to serve 
the same purpose for todays teens as The Breakfast 
Club did for ’80s teens.
While The Perfect Score has its heartfelt, genuine 
moments, and includes some memorable perform­
ances, its lack of originality keeps it from sticking with 
the viewer.
While The Breakfast Club brought five teenagers to 
detention for very different reasons, The Perfect Score 
gives its six main characters a reason to fight against 
the evil SAT.
SAT, continued on page 11
no
g/aaSc&T 2 oCSvlevy 2004.

---------------------------------------------------

A dark journey to China’s past
CMU’s International Film Festival shows Xiu Xiu
In 1975, a naive girl boards a military truck in 
Chengdu, China, ready to do her duty for her country. 
Her childhood sweetheart, who narrates the film, 
says, “I could not help thinking this was the moment I 
lost Wen Xiu forever.”
Continuing with the International Film Festival that 
began last Tuesday, this week offers Xiu Xiu: The Sent- 
Down Girl. Directed by Joan Chen, it is a moving look 
at the human wreckage left by China’s Cultural 
Revolution.
Between 1967 and 1976, China “sent down” nearly 
eight million young students to the remote country­
side with the goal of eliminating the social and eco­
nomic differences between urban and rural places. 
Filmed in secret, Xiu Xiu is banned in China.
Wen Xiu, nicknamed Xiu Xiu (pronounced “Shu 
shu”), is the daughter of a tailor who leads a content­
ed life in her hometown of Chengdu. With her peers, 
she is “sent down” to work in a factory on the vast 
steppes on the border of China and Tibet.
In this new environment, people are unprotected 
from the dangers of the factory floor, especially girls. 
At the weekly outdoor movie, their only form of enter­
tainment, soldiers fondle the female students when 
the lights go out. After one movie, one of Xiu Xiu’s 
friends disappears. Rumors spread that she has been 
taken far away and “married off.”
After working in the factory for a year, Xiu Xiu 
(played by Lu Lu) is anxious to return home; instead, 
Headquarters sends her for six months to learn horse 
herding with the Tibetan Lao Jin played by Lopsang.
Once there, she is shocked to find there is only one 
tent for the two of them to share. Although she is wary 
of Lao Jin at first, she soon learns she has nothing to 
fear from him. Still, she is touchingly modest, admon­
ishing him, “Your eyes will rot if you peek!” when she 
takes a bath.
She settles in to caring for the horses and living a 
simple existence in the colorful fields of wildflowers 
that sweep the plains. But the day her allotted six 
months are up, she puts on her school uniform and 
waits outside the tent to be picked up; No one comes 
for her, that day or the next. “Everyone at 
Headquarters must be dead!” she seethes. The empti­
ness of the huge skies underscores her isolation.
After this disappointment, she again resigns herself 
to life on the plains and lives in peace with Lao Jin for 
a time. Still a child, she chatters away to him like the 
schoolgirl she is. She loves to hear him sing while he 
works.
But dark clouds are gathering in the huge sky, and 
other men, attracted by Xiu Xiu’s beauty, threaten to 
disturb their peace. Lao Jin defends Xiu Xiu from 
them, and all is well for a time.
However, Lao Jin can’t defend her forever. She 
meets a peddler who tells her that most of her friends 
have long since returned to Chengdu, and although 
return permits are hard to come by, he has connec­
tions and can help her — if she will sleep with him.
Scared as she is, Xiu Xiu is so desperate that she 
acquiesces. But instead of helping her, he sends a suc­
cession of men to her, each offering false hope that 
they can get her back to Chengdu. Exploiting her 
innocence, they use her for their own pleasure, while 
Lao Jin is forced to sit by, powerless, and watch.
But when the pain of sitting by becomes unbear­
able, Lao Jin does fight for her, and she finally realizes 
how much he cares for her. And, in the end, he is the 
only one who can set her free.
Xiu Xiu is based on the short story “Celestial Bath” 
by Geling Yan and directed by actress Joan Chen, of 
The Last Emperor and Twin Peaks fame. Although of 
the same generation as Xiu Xiu, Yan and Chen both 
escaped the “sent down” fate.
Yan joined a dance team as part of the People’s 
Liberation Army; Chen was hand-picked by Chairman 
Mao’s wife, Jiang Cheng, to be a film star. Xiu Xiu is 
based on the story of a girl that Yan knew.
The most dramatic moments of Xiu Xiu and Lao 
Jin’s relationship play out in silence, but their emo­
tions are captured wordlessly. Through the story of 
one girl’s tragic loss of innocence, the film reveals the 
tragic human face of the eight million damaged by 
their government’s misdirected idealism.
Xiu Xiu: The Sent-Down Girl. In Mandarin with English 
subtitles. 101 minutes. Tuesday, February 3, 5 pm, 
McConomy Auditorium. Part of “Crossing Borders,” 
the first Modern Languages International Film 
Festival. Admission is free. The film will be followed 
by a discussion.
.ynbu UoWW’yuw 
lousnMDdsMum tBMson
Courtesy of Stratosphere Films
SAT, lousMudbB Wno’ Gymb 10
Kyle (Chris Evans) fears that his low SAT scores 
will keep him from his dream of studying architec­
ture at Cornell. Matty, played by Bryan Greenberg, 
needs decent SAT scores to attend the same college 
as his girlfriend. Erika Christensen’s Anna, ranked 
second in her class, suffered from test anxiety in her 
last SAT and desperately needs high SAT scores in 
order to get into Brown. Basketball star Desmond, 
played by Darius Miles, needs a score of 900 on his 
SAT in order to play college basketball. Roy 
(Leonardo Nam), the stoner of the group and ranked 
last in his class, will do anything to cheat the system 
while Francesca (played by Scarlett Johansson) glad­
ly takes an opportunity to rebel against her neglectful 
father, who owns the Educational Testing Service 
building.
While these reasons are enough for the six to break 
into the ETS building in an attempt to steal the 
answers to the SAT, their importance and the impor­
tance of the SAT become smaller as all six characters 
take the opportunity to learn from the experience.
In the manner of The Breakfast Club, the film gives 
each of the characters a moment of self-reflection. 
Perhaps the best thing about The Perfect Score is the 
fact that every one of the characters is created and 
acted with sincerity. Many of the actors truly bring 
their characters to life, and at points the viewer gets 
the opportunity to look past the clichés and see the 
characters as truly interesting. Not surprisingly, the 
most notable performance of the movie belongs to 
Scarlett Johansson, who breathes soul into her rebel­
lious character and takes everything she can out of 
the role.
The Perfect Score possesses, in many ways, the rock 
’n’ roll attitude that MTV has promoted since its cre­
ation. It celebrates individuality and courage to fight 
against societal boundaries, and targets the charac­
ters’ teenage rebellion towards something in which 
they strongly believe. Although the film is in no way 
a disaster, it is, unfortunately, not memorable 
enough to earn a place in anyone’s movie collection.
:ydny éyPosMbw 
­syWWTnMsbn
g/aaSc&T 2 oCSvlevy 2004.11

---------------------------------------------------

Swords and Sorcery
RPG: Role playing geek
The current offerings on Nintendo’s Game Boy 
Advance herald a new beginning for role-playing 
games (RPGs) on videogame platforms. Graphics are 
constrained by the screen size, forcing the game 
designers to write engaging stories for their pocket- 
sized creations. Meanwhile, processing power is 32- 
bit, the same as the original Playstation, allowing for 
in-depth battle systems and worlds.
This combination of power and apparent weakness­
es makes for some of the best RPGs out on the market. 
Two of those RPGs are Fire Emblem and Final Fantasy 
Tactics Advance. Both of these games are more pre­
cisely a hybrid game type — strategy RPGs.
A strategy RPG combines the fantasy elements and 
leveling seen in a pure RPG with high-level battle con­
trol (think “general directing the troops”)- While pure 
RPGs use a battle system that is mostly “Enemies line 
up, characters line up — fight!”, strategy RPGs go with 
a battlefield view and turn-based combat.
They usually rely upon the battles (most of which 
aren’t randomly occurring, as seen in pure RPGs) to 
advance the bulk of the story, rather than separating 
the two.
Fire Emblem is part of a series, the bulk of which 
has been released only in Japan. You begin playing a 
wandering strategist, which is apparently not an unfa­
miliar job in this world. You’re found on the plains 
unconscious by Lyn, a barbarian princess whose moth­
er and father were recently killed by bandits. You wake 
up just as some bandits attack, and of course, you, the 
strategist, need to direct Lyn's fighting.
The first two battles are mapped out for you to help 
you get used to the system. Then you have to help Lyn 
find her grandfather, who happens to be the ruling
noble of a small kingdom to the west.
As you might expect, this quest isn’t as easy as it 
sounds — you’ll need to fight a collection of bandits 
and ruffians and gather a small army to your flag to 
make it.
Lyn actually isn’t the main character — the “tutorial” 
section of the game lasts for ten battles, after which 
you direct Eliwood, another noble’s child, whose 
father has gone missing. Eliwood, who helped Lyn dur­
ing her time of need, ends up needing a small army to 
find his father. Most of the people who helped Lyn will 
help Eliwood, and they gradually uncover a web of 
treachery and deceit that leads to the very top of the 
kingdoms.
Fire Emblem is for the hard-core. There’s no other 
way of putting it. Most characters have a low number 
of hit points, and a strong opponent or two weaker 
ones can often kill a character in a turn. While this isn’t 
a problem in most games, Fire Emblem has no “raise 
dead” magic. If a character dies, that character isn’t 
coming back. This notion of mortality means that you 
have to be continuously aware of hit point totals, and 
always bring at least one healer.
The levels are all beatable, but you have to play 
smart and make sure to spread experience across a 
variety of attackers. It won’t do you much good to have 
one uber-tank while the enemy kills all the rest of your 
characters.
The battle system is very good, however. Different 
terrains have different defense values and movement 
costs. The weapons go with a rock-paper-scissors dom­
inance style, though individual weapons can break the 
rules. Classes are coded by character, though most 
characters can be “promoted” by using an item found 
during gameplay to increase statistics and abilities.
The upside of having such hard levels is that you 
have a real sense of accomplishment when you beat a 
particularly difficult one. Even so, due to the difficul­
ties of these battles, I can only recommend Fire 
Emblem to the veteran strategy RPGer.
Final Fantasy Tactics Advance goes a different 
route. While battles advance the main story, there are 
parts of the game that exist outside of battle.
You are Marche, a kid in a world much like our own, 
except that all the kids have doofy names and no one 
cares. Marche and some of his friends open a magic 
book. Overnight, the town of St. Ivalice becomes the 
Land of Ivalice, as Marche and his friends are pulled 
into what is best described as a cross between Final 
Fantasy and another boy (Mewt)’s fantasy world, 
where he is a prince that no one makes fun of, and his
g/aaSc&T 2 oCSvlevy 2004.
Courtesy of Square Enix USA
mother is still alive. You fight to end this world, know­
ing that Mewt and the rest of you need to face reality, 
no matter what pain this causes him.
The depth of gameplay is phenomenal. While the 
battle system shares several similarities with Final 
Fantasy: Tactics (PSX), there are enough changes to 
confuse the FFT veteran. Each race (there are four) has 
its own set of classes. Each class has several abilities, 
most of which are unique.
It’s something of a disappointment that some of the 
classes (especially Calculator) are gone, and the new 
way to learn skills is less intuitive than in the 
Playstation’s original, but the new Judge Points and 
laws make every battle a little different.
“One more battle, one more ability, one more level” 
is a familiar refrain with this game. I’ve looked up and 
found that hours have gone by. The story beats any of 
the other Final Fantasy stories that I’ve heard. Bottom 
line: If you own a Game Boy Advance, buy Final 
Fantasy Tactics Advance.
Fire Emblem - 6.5 out of 10 killer lances
Final Fantasy Tactics Advance - 9.5 out of 10 chocobo
feathers
ry’bA gdTybnsbnw 
loGê eyuymbn

---------------------------------------------------

CLASSIFIEDS.
OPPORTUNITIES.
wvm.SpecklyDoo.com — The hottest new site 
offering an eclectic array of handmade gift 
items for you, your home, and your pampered 
pets! New items added constantly. Right now, 
we have beautiful cat-themed jewelry, unusual 
Halloween home decor items, summer purse 
clearance sale, and unique back-to-school 
purses.
Vending Route. 25 high-traffic locations.
18,000.00 yearly income. Hurry, won't last. 
Cost $3500. 1.800.568.1392. 
www. vendingthatworks. com.
Want to make FAST money?
Get paid $3 - $10 for only 20 minutes. Sign 
up today to participate in this fun, easy, and 
quick word puzzle study. For times and infor­
mation, e-mail: ejcho@andrew.cmu.edu with 
“Puzzle Study" in the subject iine.
Local test prep. Company seeking part time 
physics teachers. Excellent communications 
skills a must. Grad students preferred but not 
limited to. Call 412.687.4880 or e-mail 
info.pittsburgh@review. com.
HAIR MODELS NEEDED! Male and female. All 
hair types. Call 412.488.8951 ext. 201 for 
details and upcoming casting calls.
Seeking a ghost writer to place my thoughts 
into words for a mystery novel. $50.00 per 
chapter. 12 chapters: $600 — 15 chapters: 
$750. Please send resume to: 
Fifthave61@yahoo.com or fax to: 
412.422.4329 ATTN: Mr. Walter Trent. 
Qualifications: creativity and the enjoyment of 
writing.
**Work From Home*** Int’l Company 
Expanding. Earn up to $500-$ 1500 PT/mo. 
$2000-$7500 FT/mo. Will train. Call:
1.888.304.0872. www.NewLifeWealth.com
PEER EDUCATORS WANTED 
Peer Educators needed to present sexuality 
education programs to teens. Good public 
speaking skills desired-. No experience neces­
sary. Paid training. Flexible part-time hours. 
Must be high school graduate. Great for college 
students. Possible internship opportunities. 
For more information, please call
412.288.2130 ext. 176 and ask for Dam ion or 
send e-mail to fhcpeereducation@hotmail.com.
Amazing Metabolism Breakthrough!
Lose 10 - 200 lbs.!! Easy, quick, fast dramat­
ic results. All Natural. Dr. Recommended. $$$ 
Back Guarantee.
1.888.738.2802 www.NewLifeTrend.net
Talk Therapy Research Study for Depression 
and Anxiety men and women, ages 18 to 60, 
who are suffering with symptoms of both
depression and anxiety are needed to partici­
pate in a talk therapy research study. For more 
details or to see if you qualify, please call the 
Depression Prevention Program at
412.624.4444. There are no costs associated 
with the study. All calls are confidential.
Completely healthy males ages 18-40 without 
medical problems and not taking any medica­
tions needed for research study in the division 
of Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care 
Medicine at the University of Pittsburgh 
Medical Center. Must have no history of dia­
betes, insomnia, smoking, or depression. Study 
will involve two 48-hour sessions in the sleep 
laboratory during the week. Total participation 
time will be approximately four weeks. No cost 
to participants; financial compensation provid­
ed. Call Heidi at 412.692.2880.
Depression
Is it a problem for you or someone you love? 
You’re not alone. According to the National 
Institute of Mental Health, during any one-year 
period, 18.8 million Americans — one in 10 
adults — experience depression. Andrea 
Fagiolini, MD, is conducting a research study at 
the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center to 
examine the effectiveness of an antidepressant 
medication for major depression. You or a loved 
one may qualify if you:
* are age 18 to 60
* feel depressed and anxious
* are either antidepressant-free or taking an 
antidepressant that is not helping.
As part of the study, participants will undergo 
psychological assessments and receive medica­
tion. The medication to be used in this study 
has been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug 
Administration for major depression. There is 
no cost for participating in the study. For more 
information, please call Traci Salopek today at
412.624.4444. All calls are confidential.
TRAVEL.
SPRING BREAK 2004! Travel with Beach Life 
Vacations! America’s Best Student Tour 
Operator! Jamaica, Cancún, Acapulco, 
Bahamas, Florida. Sell trips, Earn Cash, Travel 
Free! Hurry— Book Now!
1.800.733.6347
www.beachiifevacations.com
* 1 Spring Break Vacations!
Cancún, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas, Florida. 
Campus Reps Wanted! Free Meals & Parties!
1.800.234.7007 
endlesssummertours. com.
***SPRING BREAK*** PANAMA CITY BEACH, 
FL Book early and save $$$ World's longest 
keg party - Free beer all week! Live band & DJ. 
Wet T-shirt, hard body and Venus Swimwear 
contest. Suites up to 12 people, 3 pools, huge 
beachfront hot tub, lazy river ride, water slide, 
jet skis, parasail. Beach Resort
1.800.488.8828 www.sandpiperbeacon.com 
Orion Media Associates, Inc.
1.800.298.4855.
Fax 1,865.463.0038. *
orioncorp@comcast.net.
USA SPRING BREA K. com 
Cancún, Bahamas, Acapulco, Jamaica & More. 
Don’t be fooled! Go with Quality & Experience! 
28 years in business. Largest Student Tour 
Operator. (Division of USA Student Travel). Call 
Toll Free: 1.877.460.6077. Now also hiring 
Campus Reps. Earn 2 Free Trips for 15 
Travelers & $$.
Sell Spring Break Trips! Guaranteed Best Buy 
1 free trip for every 10 paid OR ca$h starting 
with first booking. Exxtreme Party Packages! 
Protection of American Express Worldwide 
EXXTREME VACATIONS, INC 1.800.336.2260 
www.xxvacations. com.
***ACT NOW! Book 11 people, get 12th trip 
free. Group discounts for 6+ www.spring- 
breakdiscounts.com or 1.800.838.8202
Test your word skills, but more importantly, GET 
PAID! WINTER AND SPRING BREAK Ski & 
Beach Trips on sale now! www.Sunchase.com 
or call 1.800.SUNCHASE today!
Spring Break ’04 with Student City.com and 
Maxim Magazine! Get hooked up with Free 
trips, Cash and VIP Status as a Campus Rep! 
Choose from 15 of the hottest destinations. 
Book early for FREE MEALS, FREE DRINKS 
and 150% Lowest Price Guarantee! To reserve 
online or view our Photo Gallery, visit www.stu- 
denfcity.com or call 1-888-SPRINGBREAK!
FOR RENT OR SALE.
Acura Integra ’00 GS, 26k miles, red, 2dr 
coupe, 5spd, leather, CD, AC, sunroof. 
Excellent condition $13,200. Call
724.612.4403.
O’HARA TOWNSHIP
Good first house in the Fox Chapel School 
District. Brick Cape Cod with 3 BR, 2 Baths. 
$160,000. For info send e-mail to manfre- 
di@pitt.edu Awesome 2 Bedroom Townhouse 
Style. Newly Remodeled, Roof Top Deck, Quiet. 
$850.00 + Gas & Electric. Call
412.621.3028.
Luxury 2 bedroom one block to CMU. Beautiful, 
modern & spacious with vaulted ceilings. Fully 
equipped kitchen. Fenced yard with patio. 
Laundry, A/C. $1200/month includes gas, elec 
& digital cable. Robb Real Estate Co.
412.682.7622 or rrec@telerama.com.
FOR RENT: CMU Student Seeking CMU Female 
Roommate for Second Bedroom and Private 
Full Bath. Saxony Apartments 229 N. Craig 
Street. FURNISHED Apartment ONLY .5 miles 
from CMU. LAUNDRY and PARKING available. 
Shared Utilities, CABLE and INTERNET. 
(WATER PAID). 11-Month Lease for 
$500/month.
Call: 520.370.1787.
E-mail: tcpaz@hotmail.com.
MEDICAL.
Squirrel Hill, 2nd floor duplex, 2 large rooms 
plus kitchen and bath, ideal for 2 students, 1 
block from bus line to university, $795, 
INCLUDES GAS AND ELECTRIC. Call
412.521.1308.
HOME FOR SALE BEECHVIEW. Home with 
inviting entry awaits you! Solid, spacious one 
floor, brick with character, level entry, near T, 8 
minutes to town, near greenway, 3 br, 1 bath. 
$55K 412.421.5659, jjune@pghmaii.com
Forest Hills — Furnished room for rent - only 
$325.00. Call 412.371.2256.
Office space for rent on Fifth Avenue —¦ 
$600/month, call 412.681.6830
Sea rch bg ie nsfow C Ihgi asrf 
sTg dtdfiohgiy
Shadyside: 1 Bedroom, head included $515 + e 
Shadyside: All new 2 Bedroom $725 + c 
Sq. Hill: Studio apartment, heal included S490 +c 
Pride Realty 888-274-6536 
www.pride-realty.com
Classified Rates 
All local ads are free at The 
Tartan's discretion
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Box 1017 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh,PA 15289
• Classifieds must be paid in 
cash, check, or credit card before 
first run date
• Non-local ad rates:
20 words........$10.00/wk
21-50 words.........$12.00/wk
51-100 words.......$15.00/wk
• Due 5 pm Thursday before 
publication
PILLBOX. 21

---------------------------------------------------

HOROSCOPES.
BY DiNAH WINNICK
ARIES (March 21 - April 19): Your new haircut will seem to 
take off five years of your life, at least it will if those corrosive 
chemical styling products you use find their way into your 
bloodstream.
TAURUS (April 20 - May 20): Being thrifty has its upside, but 
seducing an Activities Board member just so you can get into 
movies for free may be more trouble than it's worth.
GEMINI (May 21 - June 21): Walking down Craig Street you will
suddenly be overcome by a sudden bout of seveer home­
sickness when you smell Lulu's miso soup, just like Mom 
made it, but slightly less tuna-noodle-casserole-ish.
CANCER (June 22 - July 22): Shopping at The Gap will
not fill the empty hole in your life, but it will provide a
great income and fine motor skill practice to foreign tod- 
ers around the globe who can secure such steady employ- 
t.
LEO (July 23 - August 22): To protect your beloved goldfish during your 
wild party Saturday night, you will move its bowl to the coffee table by the window in 
your apartment. This will have the added value of providing your fish with a realistic 
home environment when a sheet of ice forms over the bowl, just like in the wild.
VIRGO (August 23 - September 22): You will soon discover, through a baffling series
of social snafus, that while you may have a great sense of humor, you still need to work 
a bit on concept and practice with your stuffed friend, Lola, and her hilarious invisi­
ble buddies.
LIBRA (September 23 - October 23): Stop now before you spend your whole life try­
ing to graft knees onto elephants so they can jump up and down just to alleviate your 
guilt over a childhood of ditch-digging and big game hunting.
SCORPIO (October 24 - November 21): If you do not want to be trapped inside an
ATM by an evil wizard, and only able to communicate from with the outside world 
through incessant beeping and option menus, wish for world peace instead of money 
the next time the pageant judge hands you the microphone.
SAGITTARIUS (November 22 - December 21): On the positive side, your
cartilage-filled ears and nose will grow so tremendously in size as you 
age, that for the most part, everyone will stop noticing the rest of your 
facial features.
CAPRICORN (December 22 - January 19): A mid-winter wrestling 
weigh-in will cause you great distress unnecessarily when you forget that 
you are wearing four pairs of pants and a pair of nylon panty hose you 
are hesitant to discuss.
AQUARIUS (January 20 - February 18): A 
small meteor will crash down from the 
heavens and whack you in the head, caus­
ing you to trip, slip on the ice, and rapidly luge down 
the steep hill on Negley amidst cheers of the crowd 
gathered in anticipation of a dramatic finish.
PISCES (February 19 — March 20): You will sudden­
ly find yourself transported into a superhero comic 
where you will be unable to stand up due to your cre­
atively depicted body proportions and begin to feel 
uncomfortable pinned to the ground by gravity in your 
spandex tube top and patent leather thigh-high boots.
In a nearby campus— | <
Laura Semesky/Art Staff
Ph.D. by Jorge Cham
THERE THERE... KNOW IT HASN'T 
BEEN EASY... .
WWW.pnacornÍCÁ.Com
Hypocrisy Now by Tim Kelly and Rashan Walker
DrCok®», jo** • wloU
preach vCr+u*J of
Yes- C rtU lekevtf
«with CrtO t AttikiMa as a wkole.
Atan-f ì» ffce /eel iWC-HtJ îj hot like onlyrruAetfo V* erf a rpwi<U<f 
O-ff-bi CeUlM+e UAtr
WWt you re«tf*e is 
+kat w« «*k| rwtty kave of a. 
Mack person «vná-the
6-rtver^í tó* ft A*«**. We 
aireaVf hve ciwu)i AiMti.
I
Inevitable is such a heavy word by Chris Boette and Ben Magallon
14g/aaSc&T 2 oCSvlvevy 2004.

---------------------------------------------------

UIcMh UIosl3 F3 xIpli knloolern
ACROSS
3 Winners of the very first Super
Bowl
7 Offsides
10 The average cost is $1.2 million
to air a________(#, unit) Super
Bowl commercial
13 New England Patriots’ starting full 
back
14 The site of yesterday's Super Bowl
18 Illegal touching of an opponent
while attempting to catch the foot­
ball
20 An extension of the game
23 One of the announcers of yester­
day’s Super Bowl
26 Number of players on a football 
field
27 A quarter of football lasts___min­
utes
28 Sponsor of the halftime show
29 The first play of every football 
game
30 Goal posts
DOWN
1 The front-piece of a helmet.
2 ____turf.
4 Opening act of yesterday’s halftime 
show
5 Quarterback for the Carolina 
Panthers
6 The longest possible penalty, given
for assaulting a referee
8 This year was the third time in a
row the_____lost the NFC cham­
pionship
9 Stadium hosting this year’s Super 
bowl
11 Point of separation between oppos­
ing teams
12 When a quarterback is tackled 
behind the line of scrimmage
15 The official situated behind the 
defensive line
16 Coach for the New England 
Patriots
17 An unsuccessful pass
19 Both receivers and planes do this
21 For college, Tom Brady attended
the University of_____
22 Yesterday’s Super Bowl was num­
ber _____
24 Carolina Panthers’ field goal kicker
25 Coach for the Carolina Panthers
—----------------;—A 5t*o,\\ co^oísyOVwo \ps Woe- become 
(y Ve\oveò veer' c£ \\o v- vi
Votary íovorHe \
ce creatA In®®nI2 0
"ÏKe coKçoi'y w<xs So 
V>e\ove¿ lexers ted <iuñr>3 WWTL 
*«^¿1 X-^A-L-Y ^vot I- Way^-lcve-Noo.
A+ +Kelr sqD3k opería, ori-frefclui c£-ffe AIK es
2. 31^ o.\yl awoy over q-o.ooo o^es
2 x 4! by Aaron KablackPittsburgh Stories by Eli Pousson
g/aaSc&T 2 oCSvlevy 2004

---------------------------------------------------

duckbarsfTI ß\
TESTÌM6 r
Weekly inspiration from the ominously brooding pond
It was a cold, dreary day when Rupert finally admitted himself 
to the psychiatric hospital outside of town. The kindly nurse gave \
him a nice, fuzzy blue robe and matching slippers — extra wide — ^
and escorted him to his sixth-floor room. The tiny room was aus- 1
tere except for one bit of decoration, a small Matisse print. Rupert 
stared at that painting for hours, memorizing each black line, curve of blue or 
green, and dancing body. His attention was then pulled to the window on the 
opposite wall. He drew the blind and looked out at the world. The sidewalk was 
brown and stained with salt. The sky was littered with gray clouds. The ducks 
walking about below were alone, ignoring everyone else in their path. They 
shoved their hands deep in their coat pockets, hurrying to get where they were 
going and out of the cold. It was a very different picture than Matisse's joyous 
dancers. Rupert could not imagine ever being able to leave the safety of the hos­
pital and go back into that cold world ever again...
Harold and the Other Guy by Bob Rost
Look! I made 
muffins! ^ow. hangover, 
breakfast, mmTyler and Fred by Greg Prichard
This space still available for rent 
You know, like your sister_____________bobrost.com/harold
Ok, I’m really worried 
that your mutant plant is 
getting too big too fast.
Harold, I'm worried that 
your mutant plant is 
getting too big too fast.
Not to worry. 
Here boy, have 
some chicken.
Everybodies News by Franz Harter
DUDE AFTER THTSfl JUST REMEMBERED 
WE MAY SET/^TiJfl THAT PAPER'S DUE AND 
KING LEAR! / I WANT TO DO IT NOW!!Trusted Mech by Dan Vogel and Geoff Washburn[THEY ASK I WHY NO I ONE VOTES?i
THINGS WE DON'T SET IN WORDS 
WE DON’T UNDERSTAND INSTEAD 
OF SAYING THINGS THAT DON'T 
MAKE SENSE IN WORDS WE KNOW 
THIS IS MORE ENTERTAINING.
THtSISl 
STUPID! !|
trustedmech.or...and so after the second heat application at 
130 C, I analysized the mineral composition...Tell me a story, Dr. Coffee!'D RATHER ( 
iE WORKINGlI
11:45 by Ed Ryan
Story?Do all your stories 
end as coffee / 
formulations? /What?Comics Trivia Question:
uny /yi£a/i
i/\ Cj £DP\<»/1.
\Wc> (bl
^ |Vl iUff /Vf I
This isn't my jobtalk?
f Well, OK.
( Once, there was a 
beautiful automaton.
Q: What is 
Superman’s greatest 
weakness?
art: gw2 / words: dmvTRUSTED MECH
Jokes N’ Laffs by Eli Pousson
^WKcvV does <v\lr<xr<i use'sBe the first to write 
to comics @ 
thetartan.org 
with the right answer 
and get your name 
printed in next 
week’s issue!
fîrtd- 'f- CrU'ckl-/' My
g/aaSc&T 2 oCSvlevy 2004.

---------------------------------------------------

by Scott Adams
IF YOU REFUSE TO DO 
SOMETHING ABOUT OUR 
PRODUCT S SAFETY FLAW, 
I WILL BE FORCED TO 
CONTACT OUR CEO!
YOU NEED TO CHANGE 
THE COMPANY'S NANE 
TO CREATE THE ILLU­
SION OF PROGRESS.
THE NAME SHOULD BE 
HI-TECH SOUNDING 
WITH A HINT OF 
ONOMATOPOEIA THAT 
SIGNALS YOUR TOTAL 
LACK OF AWARENESS.
MAYBE SOMETHING LIKE 
"DUHFLUSHTECH, INC.*
HUNDREDS WILL DIE... 
BLAH, BLAH , BLAH... 
WHATEVER. FORWARD 
THE MESSAGE TO THAT 
POINTY-HAIRED GUY.
THIS E-MAIL 
WILL MAKE HIM 
DROP EVERY­
THING AND CALL 
ME.I LIKE 
IT!
DOGBERT DOES P.RBUT MY NEGLIGENCE 
COULD CAUSE THE 
DEATHS OF A DOZEN 
CUSTOMERS.
! THE FIRST
DOZEN IS 
mm ALWAYS THE
°f HARDEST.
THE GOAL OF PUBLIC 
RELATIONS IS TO 
TAINT THE JURY POOL 
WE'LL SHOW THAT 
THE VICTIMS .
HAD IT AA 
? COMING. C
NO ONE. THE 5T0CK 
WOULD PLUNGE AND 
WE'D HAVE MASSIVE 
LAYOFFS. YOUR 
CAREER WOULD BE 
RUINED.
WALLY,I DISCOVERED 
A DEADLY SAFETY FLAW 
IN OUR PRODUCT. WHO 
SHOULD I INFORM?
MAYBE WE SHOULD 
DISCUSS THE MORAL 
IMPLICATIONS OF 
THAT STRATEGY.
YOU KNEW YOUR 
PRODUCT WAS DEADLY 
BUT YOU DID NOTHING 
UNTIL YOU I I WERE SUED. AA
DOGBERT DOES P.RMY GUTS 
FEEL LIKEI SWAL- ™TALLY 
LOWED A SUCKED 
SQUIRREL. THE FLAVOR , OUT OF
THIS SCONE
AND I
THINK I CAN YOU 
CAN GET GET HER TO 
BRITNEY GROW HAIR 
SPEARS ON HER 
TO WEAR BACK, TOO? 
YOUR A .
HAIRSTYLE. v
ALICE, IF I FAIL TO 
BLOW THE WHISTLE ON 
OUR PRODUCT'S SAFETY 
PROBLEM, I WILL BE 
LIKE A MURDERER!
FOR AN EXTRA FEE, I 
CAN DO SOME P.R. 
WORK AIMED AT THE 
INFINITE FABRIC OF 
THE UNIVERSE TO 
INNOCULATE YOU.
NO,TECHNICALLY YOU'D 
BE MORE LIKE A KILLER 
YOU WUSS.THERE'S SOME RISK 
THAT THE P.R. PLAN 
WILL CAUSE YOU BAD 
KHARMA.
by Stephan PastisGOAT
TUESD AYWUNE DrCLrCL¿OrLDWHO WORKS FOR b I HEinternet service y ernev PROVIDER, y Y HER?
WHAT'S THAtYI COOLP REALLY GOT TO PO I USE A COMPUMENT, WITH e EVEN IF OrtLY 
k ANYTHING?/ FRoW A PRIMK. >
UOULP YOU Y OH. YOU BET,..I'M CAREfORA ) TiREP OF BEirtG COMPLIMEHTaRY/ InJSULTEP Alt ^ DRINK? va THE TIME. y
YEAH, BOT HE SANS THERE ARE A FEW 
PROBLEMS. >
nbsudwi PoP-oP AP?PLIKEWHAT?,
LOW FARES
SAVE
so Pig's on a ck vjithY yeah....A GlRL WHOSE FACE THEY
UNWLwCUWWLNW.B eLarCLD cLCW Wr¿N INTERNET P0P-0PAP?/^>iMER
80T ISW’T HE \/WHAT'STHERE EMBARRASSED { TO BE TO BE SEEN /\ EMBARRASSEP WITH HER,v V ABOOT’ b
THIVT BÖ6 ZMFER'S f\ 
GöDSEtiD.\?0 tiOT $LASV\?HEME,THeODOR£. Y00 ARE IN THE ftUESWAE PRESENCEof the cpcklc ose^ceTHE WARM,BR\GHT l\GHT„.HlS LOME Will PROTECT OS.
BEH0CP, GERTIE- XIDONNO/ tAEN.JTHE 6tOR\OOS I acW...\T FACE OF GOP. 1 FR\6HTENS 
V-------------------'V ME. J?omrIS VIAGRA 
FOR 
v YOU?
CHECK.
mar
—
WELL,HELLO, PlG.,.1 \ HI. FATHER PlDN'T KNOW You ATE Bill ...THIS AT THIS RESTAURANT. IS MY PATE,1 it's nice to see you. À Polly. >
"„.most of the intelu- that's "¿9.GENT SPECIES E6G THE THE totWNS." IA0M!. GEE, IWOOLP IT MEANS, NEUER ES& A MMKEY.rfOREXAWflE“
I STILL WOÜLPN'T PO ITfOR EXAMPLE YOU SHOOtP EGG THE .MONKEYS?/
IT'S 30ST "FOR EXAMPLE*
NUDE GIRLS 
ARE WAITING 
FOR YOU
13 NOW
hiiiiiiifV
foiàiiMàiìiì
SprringB e akicutcl eyy\B17

---------------------------------------------------

Comickaze:
Relaunch, or When Comics Need a Kick-Start
Comic book followers have become accustomed 
to the word relaunch since the beginning of the 
decade. Relaunch as a concept is nothing new — it 
just happens to be in vogue. At its simplest, a 
relaunch means a new creative direction. In its 
more complex form, a relaunch can involve a new 
number #1 issue, new artists and writers, and even 
the possible revival of a long-forgotten character.
The relaunch on the lips of everyone in comics 
right now is the set of changes in store for 
Superman this April. From information in creator 
interviews and DC Comics’ press releases, it seems 
this relaunch is intended to reinvigorate Superman 
and his alter ego, Clark Kent. For the editors at DC, 
this meant changing the artists and writers previ­
ously working on Superman, finding a new creative 
direction for characters, and sparking hype in 
comic communities. The main Superman titles will 
not receive new #1 issues, and Superman will not 
be reinvented as a same-name different-person. 
However, the new creative focus is intended to 
revive interest in Superman and extend his mythos 
and range of personality.
Second only to the new take on the original 
superhero are the upcoming changes for the X- 
Men, come this May. Marvel’s mutant franchise is 
being reworked under the title X-Men: Reload. 
Although this relaunch entails switching creative 
teams, the known artists and writers set to take 
over the X-Men are anything but new to the charac­
ters. Chris Claremont, Alan Davis, and Salvador 
Larocca have become fan favorite X-Men creators 
over the years, providing some of the most classic 
moments in X-Men history, from the Dark Phoenix 
saga to Excalibur to the death of Colossus. 
According to Wizard Magazine, X-Men: Reload will 
launch a new X-Men #1 title.
Yet a relaunch does not always imply a rework­
ing of famous characters. Often, a relaunch will be 
a revival of a forgotten hero, such as Grant 
Morrison’s work on Animal Man in the late ‘80s. 
Lost among the hundreds of other generic names 
and costumes of superheroes, Animal Man was an 
unexpected choice for edgy storytelling. Yet the 
unexpected became Morrison’s calling card with 
his 26-issue run on Buddy Baker. The hero had 
been an underdeveloped member of multiple crime 
fighting teams in the past. Buddy had been includ­
ed to offer variety in teams, due to his ability to 
assume the attributes of animals. Yet his personali­
ty remained undefined — that is, until Morrison’s 
portrayal of Buddy as a man struggling to find his 
place among greater heroes, such as Superman and 
Batman. The relaunch was a commercial success 
and made Animal Man an exciting underdog and an 
experimental experience.
Recently, the term relaunch has been associated 
with minor reworkings of established series. 
Batman received a relaunch of sorts starting in 
2002, with a new creative team and hyped-up cast 
of villains. Wolverine was relaunched with only a 
slight creative change, new creators, and another 
issue #1 in 2003. Todd McFarlane’s Spawn is up for 
a creative relaunch soon when two existing titles 
will combine into one new Spawn comic. There is, 
however, a fine line between a minor relaunch and 
a simple creative change. The recent Plastic Man 
series by Kyle Baker, albeit genius and enjoyable, is 
not truly a relaunch. The character remains similar 
in personality and design while the stories told are 
not a departure from his tales of the past. Another 
creative change, due for Marvel titles such as the 
Incredible Hulk, Wolverine, and X-Statix, will simply 
feature a change of imprint. The series will fall 
under the less traditional Marvel Knights banner. 
Yet these changes are anything but a relaunch; the 
intent is to acknowledge the tone of the tales cur­
rently being produced.
The best example of a well-rounded character 
relaunch would be Daredevil, by Kevin Smith, Joe 
Quesada, and Jimmy Palmiotti. The 1998 debut 
was set on reviving interest in the blind vigilante, 
who had slipped in sales and lost direction. As the 
first, series to be published under the Marvel 
Knights division of Marvel Comics, Daredevil 
would surely launch with a new #1. The creative 
direction wasn’t so much unprecedented as it was 
fresh; the creators intended to return Matt 
Murdock to stories best suited for his character. 
And it was the creators of the title who truly 
brought success to the new series. The relaunch 
was so successful that it led to a company-wide 
rehaul of Marvel Comics, and provided a blueprint 
for Daredevil's 2003 blockbuster film.
A relaunch takes more than a change of creators 
or a renumbering from issue #1. A relaunch implies 
new creative direction in combination with other 
changes. A company will relaunch their creative 
properties when they want to establish a division 
between interpretations of the past and the tales 
currently being told. And just because a title is 
advertised as a relaunch doesn’t mean it really does 
anything new. A relaunch must earn its keep over 
time, as both fans and creators decide if a series has 
redefined itself.
iMRS eynMuow 
­buMon lo’MRA ­syWW
Photo courtesy of brianbolland.com
Relaunch...
»^-9« Ufi IMH
Photo courtesy of comicscontinuum.com
...not a Relaunch
1
g/aaSc&T 2 oCSvlvevy 2004.

---------------------------------------------------

MONDAY 02.
Department of Psychology Talk. The Interactive Nature of 
Language Comprehension presened by Daniel Grodner of 
Brown University. 4:30 pm. Baker Hall A51. For addi­
tional information, call 412.268.3151.
Childcare Center Valentine Project. Help Alpha Phi Omega 
spread cheer. Meet at Kirr Commons at 3 pm.
Groundhog Day! Go outside and see if you- can see your 
shadow or travel to Punxsutawney and see Phil.
TUESDAY 03.
H&SS Career Forum. 6:00-8:00 pm. University Center- 
Rangos Hall. Features a wide range of employers.
Modern Languages International Film Festival: Crossing 
Borders. Xiu Xiu, the Sent Down Girl. 5 pm in 
McConomy Auditorium. 101 minutes in Chinese with 
English subtitles.
Habitat for Humanity Spring Break. Will be holding an 
information session on Spring Break opportunities in 
Doherty Hall 1112, 5:30 pm.
Race for the Cure. Last chance to RSVP for the “Play it 
Again” kickoff event. Call 412.521.CURE.
WEDNESDAY 04.
National Girls and Women in Sports Reception. In
affiliation with the Division of Students Affairs.
7 pm McKenna-Peter-Wright Room.
Yakov Smirnoff. As Long As We Both Shall Laugh. 
One night only, 7:30 pm at the Byham Theater. 
Call 412.456.6666.
Rent Opening Night. Opens at Heinz Hall, Downtown 
runs through February 8. For information on tickets 
call 412.257.4056.
Dropkick Murphys. Playing at Laga 7 pm. Tickets 
$17.50, call 412.683.5363.
THURSDAY 05.
AMP at the Warhol. Local artists reinvent the square. 6-8 
pm at the Andy Warhol Museum 117 Sandusky Street, 
North Shore. For ticket information 412.237.8300.
FRIDAY 06.
Latin Dance. Learn salsa, merengue & cha-cha. Non­
smoking environment. Fridays. Wightman Dancehall.
Call 412.421.9734 for more information.
Tartan Pantsless Friday. Come and join The Tartan as we 
bare it all — well, some. Inquire at editor@thetartan.org
Friday Nite Improvs. Studio Theatre Cathedral of Learning. 
Call 412.681.9677 for more information.
SATURDAY 07.
Mr. Fraternity 2004. 7:30 pm Rangos Ballroom. This year’s 
event put on by Kappa Alpha Theta. Competition for broth­
ers who think they’re the hottest. Proceeds benefit Ohio Lung 
Association. Inquire for tickets in the UC 10 am-4:30 pm 
February 3 and 5.
Puzzlestorm. Where in the world is Andrew Carnegie? is this 
year’s theme. Reward for the teams that solve the puzzles. 
All teams should check in and register by Thursday, February 
5 at 11:59 pm. Teams report to Wean 7500 at 9:30 am on 
Saturday and the events should wrap up by 7:00 pm.
SUNDAY 08.
Pittsburgh hash House Harriers. “Hare & Hound" style 
mystery run. Sundays. Call 412.381.6709 for more 
information.
Tackle Football. Pick-up style, emphasis on fun. 
Sundays. Call 412.327.6097 for information.
Schenley Park Tours. Sponsored by the Pittsburgh Parks 
Conservancy. Sundays. Call 412.687.1800 for more 
information.
ONGOING
Habla Conmigo: Tertulias de Habla Hispana. Tuesdays with 
Veronica, 4 to 6 pm, Skibo Coffeehouse; Wednesdays with 
Alberto, 4 to 6 pm, Baker Hall 235A; Thursdays with 
WenShu, 6 to 8 pm, Porter Hall 226B.
UC Fridays. Every Friday, the UC will feature a different per­
formance, service, or entertainment at noon.
Artists Wanted. Mr. Roboto Project, a DIY/punk venue in 
Wilkinsburg, is seeking new art and artists. Please submit 
by February 15, when volunteers will be spending the day 
working on the space. E-mail booking@ 
therobotoproject.org tor more information.
Celebrity Lookalikes Wanted. Pittsburgh Film Office is seek­
ing potential actors/volunteers who can pose as a “celebri­
ty look-alike" for the annual Oscar party Lights! Glamour! 
Action! on February 29. Call 412.261.2744 for more infor­
mation.
VOX 
POPULI.
THE OFFICIAL VOICE 
OF PUPPY TURDS.
SUBMIT TO VOX POPULI.
send your word junk to 
tartan@andrew. emu. edu
s°o %
% t<e>
<?/ 
l
’e
The a
phic
J2.SPa
b
>V
Okooa,
w>0 
'D1
CD * 
-Q £
f— o 
m °O 0) , ¦ f~
Dapper and 
retarded are not
mutually exclusive
//t*f
Crt "C 
C jg
E"3 ccc
OfHeV,you.Kaa
* *¦
CÏ
^ i kè
SprringB e akicutcl1

---------------------------------------------------

J.T. Trollman/Photo Editor
Let me at him!
Jonathan Monk, a senior, plays the character of Jimmy MacIntyre in The City of Mahagonny. His pride is so great that 
he challenges one of the founders of Mahagonny to the ring, and soon after is the second main character to fall.
