the Tartan
Vol. 68, No. 8Wednesday, November 6. 1968
The Feds Are ComingI 
The Feds Are Coming!
By SUSAN JACOBI
On Friday, Nov. 1, there was a pep rally outside of Skibo, complete 
with signs, cheers, and members of the John Hopkins football team. But 
this was hardly a football rally. The signs were not welcoming our ri­
val football team, but a friendly team of Federal Narcotic Agents. The 
din of the minglers waiting for the TGIF to start became an enthusias­
tic roar as the jeerleaders led the crows in the popular chant: “Give 
me an N! Give me an A! Give me an R! Give me a C! What’ve you got? 
NARC! YAY!”
So where were the Narcs? Were they the students who bore the la­
bel “Narc” on their Nehru shirts or tee-shirts? Probably not, because 
they were the same ones who put up the tiny manilla envelopes filled 
with grass (from the cut) that had written on them, “Grass. 5 c.” And 
we can safely assume that the narcs were not the heads who had “Head” 
written on their heads.
In point of fact, there were no feds around. A rumor had gotten 
around that Skibo was going to get busted, lock, stock, and table, but 
it never happened. This rumor was based on a message from the police 
to the administration that had somehow filtered through the grass- 
vine.
A couple of non-CMU characters had been running quite a success­
ful drug business on campus. These shady transactions were being con­
ducted under-cover, and in intimacy, in the darker corners of the Snack 
Bar. Somehow, the police found out about it, and warned school officials 
that if this place was not "cleaned up” by Friday, then they would clean 
it up for us. The administration decided to give the students a chance 
to prove themselves, so to speak. So they left the responsibility of this 
dirty job up to a group of students of good repute. These students made 
it quite clear to the pushers that the cops were wise to them, and if they 
did not want any trouble, they’d clear out. They left, the Narcs did not 
come, and many people exhaled a sigh of relief (on both sides of the 
fence).
This is not the end of the trouble, however. The omnipresent spirit 
of the Great Narc haunts the campus still: extra-curricular activities 
including the use and-or exchange of drugs on this campus are not a 
big secret. Because of the rather scornful publicity that might be caus­
ed if there was a crackdown by Federal Narcotic Agents, it probably 
would be best if the problem were solved internally. And it must be 
solved internally, or else there will be an enemy attack. Also, an end to 
these intra-mural activities is desirable; not only are they illegal and 
immoral, but they emit nasty odors.
Senate Debates ROTC Motion
The ROTC motion, passed last week by Student Senate, was ve­
toed Thursday, Oct. 31, by Ron Haan, President of Student Govern­
ment. The motion will probably be on the Student Senate agenda this 
week as three different motions.
By breaking the motion down Ron said he would be in a better po­
sition if and when he presents the motion to the administration. He 
indicated he would like a campus referendum on each point of the mo­
tion.
The proposal passed last week stated: (1)A ROTC professor should 
not be given the status of professor, (2) No allocations or building space 
should be given as part of official campus support to ROTC, and (3 > 
No credit should be given to students electing the ROTC course.
Linda Vogel remarked that the second point was not clear and that 
there was some misunderstanding. She explained that office space 
would be available to ROTC, upon Student Senate approval. A recom­
mendation was made to amend the motion to include such a provision.
“We do not want to kick ROTC off campus. We just want to remove 
its special privileges,” Linda continued.
An ROTC representative, directing his comments to SDS, said 
that there was a difference between ROTC and other extra-curricular 
activities. “ROTC provides the right and means to discharge a moral 
and civic duty. I am able to fulfill my place in society and the world 
in ROTC — more than I could in other campus clubs.”
An SDS member replied that she felt she was discharging her du­
ties as an individual through SDS. No one can judge which duties are 
more valid, she added.
The ROTC member further explained that only one officer is a pro­
fessor; his official title being Head Professor in Residence. Other 
instructors are Assistant Professors. The head of the department 
is represented and has a vote on the committee on academic affairs, 
“so ROTC has a voice where they are concerned ”
Objections were raised indicating that ROTC has nothing to do with 
academia and that the Army should not have a voice in CMU’s academic 
affairs.
The contract between the Army and CMU states that appropriate 
credit be given for the course. “Credit rewards extra effort.” the 
ROTC representative continued “And besides, it does not count to­
wards graduation "
But it does raise a student's average and therefore increases his 
chances of receiving a scholarship, a Senator argued.'“If 1 dropped 
out of ROTC it would lower my average. If I dropped out of a club. I 
would not get an F."
One ROTC Senator said he favored ROTC as a no-credit course. 
Interested people would still enroll and excess baggage, those freshmen
BySUANJCJNOI By SUAN 7)
State of University Message: 
Communication Gap Feared
“We do not want any blow-ups 
due to a lack of communication.” 
This statement was issued by 
President H. Guyford Stever, 
Tuesday, Oct. 29, in the Skibo 
ballroom in a speech “Student 
Power.”
Communications was one of 
eight major points discussed by 
the President. Many misunder­
standings between the adminis­
tration and students are a result 
of a breakdown of communica­
tions according to President Ste­
ver.
“We will try to work out a bet­
ter communications system on 
campus so that all opinions can be 
heard. It is important for the lead­
ers to understand all views before 
making important decisions. But 
no single system is infallible,” 
he added.
Dr. Stever stated that he has 
recommended a study be conduct­
ed of faculty, students and ad­
ministration's views on the most 
effective means of communica­
tion.
Demonstrations were cited 
as an “accepted means of calling 
attention to an issue.” But. the 
President continued, he does not 
agree with those who do not want 
peaceful protests.
Excited people get out of hand 
and do not think rationallv the 
President stated. He said he was
Ad Hoc Faculty Committee on 
Student Participation
An open hearing of the com­
mittee will be held in multi­
purpose room of Hunt Library, 
in the basement, Nov. 13, from
2 to 6 P.M.
Students and faculty who 
wish to present statements 
concerning student participa­
tion in faculty organization ac­
tivities should contact Mrs. 
Neff - ext. 488 - by Nov. 11. 
Written statements may be 
submitted to Professor I. H. 
Bartlett, History Dept., BH 
‘260.
willing to discuss any issue, but 
not during a demonstration.
Instigators of rowdy protests 
will be subject to disciplinary 
action, upon the findings of a 
fair hearing, by the University. 
But, he added, when rules are bro­
ken, society closes in and “peo­
ple who police the issue are not 
ours.”
He urged students to think twice 
before engaging in overly active 
demonstrations.
Not many student participants 
want to “tear down,” despite their 
rhetoric. President Stever add­
ed. “I believe students have a real 
interest in improving the Uni­
versity. And I am anxious to work 
with them.”
Power Politics & Student Power
As an example of “power poli­
tics,” Dr. Stever cited the men’s 
dormitory issue.
A year ago. he said, the admin­
istration decided what new build­
ings were needed at CMU. Con­
struction costs were estimated 
at $139 million.
Realizing that they could not 
raise that lump sum of money, 
choices had to be made. A deci­
sion was made to delete the men’s 
dorm from the building program 
because they could not build the 
kind of dorm they wanted. Nor 
could the administration find the 
funds to finance the dorm project.
The Student Affairs Division 
had the unhappy task of reporting 
the distressing decision to the 
Men's Dorm Council. The stu­
dents, as well as the Division, 
were angry. The Division, urged 
on by Dorm Council, decided to 
exert pressure on the adminis­
tration to reconsider the dormi­
tory proposal.
“After soul searching.” Pres­
ident Stever said the administra­
tion decided to give it “the old col­
lege try.”
A new men’s dormitory is 
promised by 1972. “This is a 
good example of effective power 
politics.” .
Military recruitment at CMU, 
an issue that did not succeed.
was cited as an example of the 
University’s decision to limit its 
scope to educational issues.
Last spring, after General Her- 
shey’s statement involving the 
status of college students, a pe­
tition was signed by students and 
faculty urging the administration 
to remove all military recruiters 
from CMU.
President Stever’s decision 
not to exclude the military was a 
response to the educational issue 
involved. But, he said, the issue 
was larger than the University.
Dr. Stever subsequently in­
formed President Johnson, and 
Pennsylvania’s Senators and Rep­
resentatives of the petition and 
student's reaction to the draft 
statement.
“Communication was good on 
that issue,” he added.
In a question and answer period 
following the speech, one student 
further questioned Dr. Stever 
on this issue.
The issue cannot be divided 
into spheres of education and 
“larger issues,” he said. “Mil­
itary recruiters are part of the 
draft. If you put pressure on one, 
you also pressure the other.” The 
trustees are intricately involved 
with the milit?ry, he added.
President Stever replied that 
the issue had not been present­
ed before the trustees.
“I truly believe that the Viet­
nam war will be determined by 
political leaders,” the President 
said. We can only voice our opin­
ions and dissent.
“Bull shit,” was the student’s 
response.
The University in Society 
In order to change the existing 
society, we must first examine 
it and then suggest reforms
The leaders of CMU believe 
that the University has an im 
portant place in society. Presi­
dent Stever continued “Society 
is better than it is given credi 
for” and although it is not per
' • (Continued on Pag« 8)

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—THE TARTANl—Wednesday, November 6, 1968
Editorial 
Retain ROTC
The current argument advanced against ROTC does not 
attack its right to exist on this campus, merely its right to aca­
demic credit. We feel that the current disposition of ROTC is 
satisfactory.
We are satisfied that ROTC has redeeming academic con­
tent in course material and teaching procedure. The sophistica­
tion of course work and its scientific and historical content are 
not unfit for the university campus. It’s biased, but the mere fact 
that courses are taught by military men from Army texts 
clearly signals the existence of such bias. How much more in­
vidious are courses whose bias is hidden under the guise of ‘‘pure 
truth.” The scholar can detect bias wherever it exists; if it is 
expected, sc much more the easier to take it into account.
“ROTC teaches men to kill. ROTC teaches blind obed­
ience.” Two popular arguments against the academic fitness 
of ROTC. Our engineering skills are also applicable toward 
killing, namely weaponry engineering; is killing by remote 
control more honorable than combat, where an officer risks loss 
of his own life? We are also satisfied that ROTC, in prepar­
ing a man for a position of leadership, develops his judge­
ment, although military service may require him to stifle it. 
The ramifications of service, however, are irrelevant to argu­
ing the merits of campus ROTC.
Has ROTC a chilling effect on its members and the cam­
pus community? Not at this campus. A man in the two year pro­
gram is free to speak his mind anywhere he chooses. A cadet 
in the advanced corps is a member of the Army by his own wish, 
and as a representative of the Army must govern himself ac­
cordingly. This is generally ignored on campus. Regardless, the 
fact that all ROTC is voluntary implies that if it censors its 
members in any way, those who volunteer choose this cen­
sorship.
Space does not allow us to dwell on specific arguments 
further. The fact is that denying ROTC academic credit, that 
turning it into an extra-curricular activity violates provisions 
in an extant contract, may force it to be removed from the cam­
pus. Doing so would deny a significant portion of men a free 
choice in their college career. If indeed the men of CMU feel 
that ROTC has no place in the academic community and if they 
value their principles above mere expediency, they will not 
participate in ROTC and the programs will die from attrition. 
If ROTC continues to be as well supported as it currently is, 
then we feel that it must retain its standing.
the Tartan
BySU AyNJCO 
nIJNUFrirdaJO,
ovCv.JC. nIJNUFIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII Erica Borden
1ACCOth ovCv.OFIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIInFN rUiNUFOdUa
eOtw nIJNUFIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIryC,o vy.OUC
sOpt nIJNUFIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIInUCF1Ua BFtho
lttJtNvCN sOpt nIJNUFIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIISuzi Stockton
ufUFNt nIJNUFIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIewyC sUdpd
lttJtNvCN ufUFNt nIJNUFIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIsyaao laUyC
JNUCOINn FriCBI........................................................ Susan Jacobi
kaUNU.Fvfab nIJNUFtIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIuJa.JC vJaaFO
lFww fUC,U
cUmvg lIHOFNJtJC. ovCv.OFIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIBySF. lywwyCdFCU
svNJUCvg lIHOFNJtJC. ovCv.OFtIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIni.o uy.Jw
ryC,o uy.Jw
cvbUAN nIJNUFIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIkwwUC lwFOONyC
uOmFONvFJvg nIJNUFIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIkwOFU vJJCUo
dJFmAgvNJUC ovCv.OFtIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIby,cUw AydpUC
lJh fJadUa
sOpt uNv,,T kaF,y lJa.UCm BUSo uyOOUwwm giOyC ny,JhFm fUtH
to syiayOcm fydaF,Fy v,BJCyw.m ucUaow v,vycJCm 
gcyaJC fUaippFm nyNFU k.wFCI
kaUNU.Fvfab uNv,,T syaao TaFU.NyCm BySU bJOUChUatm nUaao 
gFO­FC.m nJU GowUam kaF, jUaNUm ead jUaO,ciwp
uOmFONvFJvg uNv,,T fcowwFO lJJ­m giU uyddyCJm eC.aUy uFyCUw:
wJm lJhhUddU sFC.Uam eC.aUy vFCdpm AyaUC g,cy11Uam AyH
dco gwJOO
ufUFNt uNv,,T eC.aU“ kwwFOm !aUt vJaaFOm BJC lyUam TayC­ 
gy,,Jm vF,cyUw li..UCm nFN nyC­Um BySU RFCFOcm vF­U 
Sinolens, Jon Arnold, Sue Miller
Freedom of Choice 
Should Apply To All
Editor, the Tartan:
Consistent with the current at­
titudes toward fault-finding, I 
would like to find some of my 
ow7n, and offer it as constructive 
criticism of The Tartan issue of 
October 30,1968.
First, my comments are direct­
ed at The Tartan alone and con­
cern themselves with questions 
of journalism. I do not generally 
defend traditional views but when 
lead articles take the points of 
opinion rather than news report­
ing, and are not indicated as such 
by either a by-line or inclusion on 
what may be considered to be an 
editorial page, I find my ex­
pectations and values violated. 
The New York Times would not 
proceed in such a manner, now 
would it? When the reader finds 
it difficult to dissect fact from 
opinion, I suggest you reject your 
claim to the concept of student 
newspaper, assuming that you 
ever made such a claim, of course.
Second, allow me to address 
several comments to the SDS, 
who have so valiantly set them­
selves up as- the keepers of our 
societal moralities. I fully agree 
that ROTC is inane, silly, a waste 
of time, uncultural, and a whole 
host of other descriptive terms 
which this paper would undoubt­
edly not print, but so what? 
Value orientation is a wonderful 
thing. If a student wishes to pur­
sue military training, at his voli­
tion, why should this experience 
be denied him? Because it does 
not correspond with your or my 
values? This is absurd. How 
would you react if all the engineer­
ing students were to suggest that 
a course in Sociology is not con­
sistent with their value principles 
and it should be removed from the 
curriculum? After all, if it isn’t 
good for them, it can’t be good for 
anyone, isn’t that right?!
Also, a critical analysis of the 
three reasons stated in the “article” 
which favors the abolishment of 
ROTC reveals only one thing — 
ignorance and lack of informa­
tion. “We know of no academic 
value that ROTC can claim other 
than the iculcation of blind obed­
ience and a dangerous orienta­
tion towards military solutions to 
international and domestic pro­
blems.” I suggest that this is a 
rather limited view — tactics and 
strategy are applicable to an ex­
tremely wide variety of fields, 
just for an example. Modern 
business theory has profited im­
mensely from problems originally 
conceived in a military vein. 
PERT. Linear Programming, auth­
ority structure relationships . . . The 
list goes on. “ . . . . the traditional 
educational and functional re­
quirements for university faculty 
members (are not being met) ...” 
Aside from the problem of de­
fining these traditional and fun­
ctional requirements, whatever 
they are, why does the sward 
only cut one way? Why should 
Eldridge Cleaver’s course at 
Berkely receive credit? Is he ful­
filling traditional roles? I always 
assumed that we live in a social 
structure where the same rules 
apply to everyone — that this is 
hopelessly idealistic will be im­
mediately acknowledged, but 
why should the denial of this prin­
ciple come exactly from those 
people that expouse it most when 
it benefits their cause? We won't 
even bother with Reason 3 be­
cause it is only Reason 1 reword­
ed, once we remove the “noisy” 
data of financial support. It does 
seems the $$ received (in terms
of space and secretary) could be 
compared with the community Re­
lations Council, coupled with a 
nymber of other organizations 
which have space in Skibo, and 
I do not hear the ROTC group 
complaining about this “misuse’-’ 
of their funds (re tuition). Final­
ly, the fact that the military is not 
a democratic organization and 
does not encourage freedom of 
thought and expressions has 
nothing to do with anything. You 
You might as well make the same 
statesments about the Physics 
Department, for example, and urge 
its abolishment. It too requires 
mastery of certain disciplines, 
and I "have never heard of it be­
ing fun on democratic principles.
Third, I would just like to ex­
press my disgust in general with 
a certain philosophy that currently 
seems to be infesting the Am­
erican way of life — the whats- 
right-for-me-is-not-right-for-you 
philosophy. Damn it. we are con­
stantly holding up “self-evident 
truths” which apply to our own be­
havior, but let someone else of a 
different orientation try the 
same, and WHAM! If you are 
going to proclaim human free­
dom of choice, then that freedom 
applies across the board, not solely 
to the areas you happen to be re­
presenting.
If 10 per cent (?) of C-MU 
students want to take their bag 
to ROTC, what does that concern 
you, as long as you are not ef­
fected? They may be dumb, ig­
norant, absurd, and ridiculous in 
doing so (as I agree), but they 
hold the same views about you 
and your silly long hair and 
emphasis on human relations train­
ing and that left wing movement 
to undermine America. Tolerance, 
lads, tolerance.
Berno Pahl
SDS Infringes 
On Rights Of 
ROTC Cadets
Editor, The Tartan:
It is very seldom that I am moved 
to write a letter of this type, yet 
I feel that Mr. David Greenberg’s 
letter of October 23. 1068, de­
serves to have an answer.
Mr. Greenberg submits that the 
ROTC program has no place on 
our college campus and suggests 
that it is a “course without in­
tellectual content.” He further 
asserts that the ROTC is harm­
ful to C-MU because it “under­
mines the neutral political stance” 
you certainly throw your words 
about without any definition or 
clarification of what you mean. 
For a truly neutral political stance, 
it is necessary to have all types 
of institutions represented here 
on campus, and this C;MU strives 
to do. Witness that C;MU puts 
up with the SDS, which has stir­
red up more controversy in two 
months than the ROTC has in 
several years. I ask you — when has 
the ROTC program ever precipita­
ted a riot or participated in a pro­
test demonstration? In fact, what 
did the ROTC ever do to you to 
cause such an intolerance of the 
military and OUR government? 
Your proposed abolition of this 
ROTC program is infringing upon 
MY rights and the rights of 200 
other students who have VOL + 
UNTARILY joined and parti­
cipated in ROTC. This aboli­
tion would eliminate an impor­
tant influence to intellectually 
capable students who desire to 
examine both sides of their acad­
emic environment. Are you really 
so shortsighted to believe that 
students in the ROTC are major­
ing in Killing and minoring in
Carnage, and will practice their 
“trade” if someone criticises the 
government? Do you honestly 
believe that there is no “intellect­
ual content” in the ROTC? These 
same “killers” go out and build 
navigational locks, dams, flood 
control reserviors, and other con­
servation and public works. And 
who serves to restore order in na­
tional emergencies? And who is 
fighting for YOUR eifht to criti­
cise our government? One other 
ting, Mr. Greenberg, leaders 
for business and industry are not 
born — they are made. Many per­
sonnel directors in private bus­
iness will tell you that a man who 
has served some time in the Armed 
Forces as an officer has a work­
ing knowledge of how to influence 
and direct people, and important 
quality to have if this man de­
sires to be a supervisor. As for the 
absence of “intellectual content,” I 
would like to see you lead a platoon 
of 50 men, or teach them some 
technical skills, or direct the em­
ergency construction of a bridge, 
or aid in the rescue of a community 
stricken with riots or devastation. 
This type of ability, Mr. Green­
berg, is not a simple game of mul­
tiple choice; the answere require 
intellectual capacity. 50 men look 
to you for decisions and say “lead 
me, lieutenant.” With training and 
intellectual discipline, the ROTC 
officer does just that.
In addition, the ROTC program 
is designed to make the Army of­
ficer a well-rounded individual- 
hence, there is a variety in its 
sources to acquaint him with both 
domestic and foreign affairs, 
as well as the mundane items of 
daily life. There is intellec­
tual challenge in the ROTC pro­
gram, but just because it doesn't 
bat you over the head is not cause 
to deny its existence.
l am due to be commissioned in 
June as a second lieutenant in 
the Corps of Engineers, U.S. Army 
Reserve. It makes me and quite a 
few other future officers ill to 
hear you slander the U.S. govern­
ment by saying that you found 
“university complicity with the 
military” in the form of the fe­
deral income tax collected by the 
university. Evidently you think 
that just because the military is a 
department of the U. S. govern­
ment, and that the university 
(just like any other employer) is 
required by law to collect a feder­
al tax, you conclude that the mili­
tary influences the university 
directly. Oh, come now! Why, if 
this be the case, is the C-MU 
ROTC program completely volun­
tary, when it is required at the 
University of Pittsburgh and Du- 
quesne University? If anything, 
it would appear that the C-MU 
administration is more divorced 
from the military than these 
other two fine colleges. At one 
time, ROTC was required at 
C-MU, but this was changed years 
ago, and certainly not at the be­
hest of the Military Depart­
ment.
In conclusion, Mr. Greenberg, 
there are two things you might 
want to try:
1) Next time, check upon your 
facts, pay your taxes, and become 
a first-class citizen of the nation 
which gave you your birth and 
freedom, or
­G If you don’t care for the situ­
ation as it exists here, leave. There 
are many other universities and-or 
countries from which to choose.
In either case, I suggest that 
you open your eyes and hear both 
sides of the story before making 
a judgement.
David A. Secrist 
Mechanical Engineering '69

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, November 6, 1968—THE TARTAN—Page 3
Volume 1, No. 6November 6, 1968
daN ,iNion Nv.INnnNr iy Broadside UIN yBC yNoNnnUIi1t CaBnN aN1r ht CaN 
Tartan, eUIyNAiNwsN11By pyi,NIniCtl BI CaN nCOrNyC hBrt iy NiCaNI .Oh1inaNr 
BI OyBuuioiU1 nCUCNfNyCnk daN UOCaBIn UIN nB1N1t INn.Bynih1N uBI CaN fUCNIiU1 
.INnNyCNr iy Broadside.
BECAUSE ALL MEN ARE BROTHERS
The bombing of North Vietnam had ended, but the struggle for peace 
continues. For we rejoice not in an end but in a beginning — a beginning of 
efforts to establish a new and lasting peace , and in the continuation of pro­
gress to bring a respectable life to all men, regardless of the color of their 
skin or the nation in which they reside. Hunger, pestilence, disease and death 
are universal wherever one travels, and to these needs we must minister if 
peace is ever to be achieved.
Many now believe that with the end of the bombing peace will have 
been accomplished. Sadly I must break the news, even peace in Vietnam will 
not be accomplished with an end in the conflict or the negotiation of a set­
tlement. What of the growing conflicts in Thailand, the Near East, Bia- 
fra, the universities of the world, or the racial unrest in our own nation. Like 
the returned GI’s of World War II, many peace demonstrators now, in their 
relief believe that the struggle for peace is ended. Both the Korean and Viet­
nam conflicts should bring a realization that the cessation of surface hos­
tilities only feeds the core hostilities which will erupt once again. We will 
not have secured peace when the conflict in Vietnam has ended, we will 
merely have switched from a “hot” war to another “cold” war. Peace is not 
just the absence of war, but rather the dynamic interaction of people and na­
tions in construvtive progress. The state of war must completely end and be 
replaced by a state of peace.
The peace movements sprang almost entirely from the old civil rights 
organizations, but they sprang not out of a task accomplished but out of a 
desire to excape the nitty-gritty of the civil rights movement,which would have 
ensored the completion of the task. On February 1, 1960 in Greensboro, North 
Carolina four Negro college students sat at a lunch counter and asked to be 
served. In state after state, North and South, the question of civil rights 
was voiced. So followed the sit-ins, the Freedom Rides, Albany, Georgia, 
Birmingham and the voter registration campaigns. Finally in Washington,
D. C.,the late Martin Luther King voiced his dream for America and mil­
lions of Americans voiced their assent to that dream. Many had made the emo­
tional sacrifice, but few could find the time to spare any more. Freedom had 
truly not rung from any state. With great amazement' America found the 
streets of Detroit and Watts in flames, and finally almost every other major 
city in the United States was to feel the heat of discontent and hate. White 
America could not see that it had failed the Black community through 
inactivity. The voices were heard, for George Wallace has attested to that, 
but where were the hands. At stake now is the faith that others hold in Am­
erica to move from words to progress. Today brothers, the Black man still 
stands outside. He is no longer just wondering, but demanding that some- 
ting more than demonstrations be done, NOW!
Constantly, in the days that followed the assassination of Martin Luther 
King, leaders both national and local asked for the examination of the root 
causes of discontent and the dissolution of them immediately. The Kemer 
Commission Report advised the following; “It is time now to end the des­
truction and violence not only in the streets of the ghetto but in the lives 
of people.” The violence and destruction are manifested not only in riots but 
in wars. Perhaps we might take heed to end the violence not only in the jung­
les of Vietnam and elsewhere, but in the lives of oeople. As long as toy 
guns and rifles flood the market, and killing is glorified in all entertain­
ment, we will have done nothing in ending the violence in the lives of the 
people.
The end to the war in Vietnam will not end the escalation of the arms 
race, which continually sophisticates in research, development and opera­
tion our weaponry, while nothing is done to improve the well being of the 
people in our society. Surely one might find some reason for having amassed 
enough nuclear weapons to destroy the entire population once, but why must 
we invest more to develop it any further? Why continue our exploration 
into more potent germicidal and chemical weapons, when their capacity to 
kill has already exceeded human comprehension? Does it honestly matter 
whether we improve the efficiency and magnitude of murder? Are not the 
problems of food, clothing, houses, employment and education more press­
ing needs of humanity and life? Why must three million Americans to to 
sleep in starvation while we pride ourselves on sophisticated weaponry? 
Until we have irradicated the material poverty of all we are not even a so­
ciety — until we have removed the psychological and spiritual poverty we 
have fallen far short of a civilization.
Clearly the following steps must be initiated now. First we must reap­
portion our entire budget. In the areas of defense we must cease the de­
velopment of nuclear, germicidal and chemical weapons — there is no need 
to develop them to their absolute efficiency. There is no necessity to develop 
nuclear warheaded delivery, rather we may update it by NASA’s research, 
in the peaceful exploration of space. All military personnel 
must undergo the same rigorous examinations as psychiatrists, lawyers, 
and medical doctors. Our standing army must be reduced to a defense unit, 
well trained in the psychology and sociology of developing peaceful inter­
action and paid commensurate with the training and performance and not 
rank and seniority. Our armed forces must be a national, not an internation­
al police force. The Strategic Air Command’s nuclear delivery planes must 
be grounded to end incidents similar to those accidents in Greenland and Spain.
The money previously invested in these defense areas must be distri­
buted to programs for developing jobs, houses, education, and cultural en­
richment, not only at home but overseas. VISTA, the Peace Corps, the Office 
of Economic Opportunity, the Neighborhood Youth Corps, etc. need not
only program expansion but personnel. We must invest not in the life of in­
dustry, but in the lives of all citizens. We must invest in exploring and under­
standing man. We must turn now to the necessities of life and its improve­
ment.
Consider our urban areas. Once we distinguished our urban and pov­
erty areas as slums, know as simply poor living and housing conditions; 
Today we refer to them as a ghettos,the portion of a city whose residents are 
restricted to that area. We not only have to redevelop and revitalize our 
cities to a somewhat modern status, we must bring rapid transit, communica­
tion, education, efficiency and personal enrichment to our citizens. This will 
require large, creative programs of public and private interests if we are 
to modernize our society to 1968.
But more programs and budgetary reapportionment will not solve our 
problems for long. Government must take the initiative to develop peace­
ful relations. The Congressional Medal of Honor has only twice been extend­
ed for endeavors to establish peace. We must begin to honor peace and the 
peace makers. The Nobel Peace Prize was awarded to Dr. Martin Luther 
King, Jr. His guidance is no longer with us now but other leaders and 
workers for peace must be found and encouraged. As in the past the initia­
tive for peace and war rests within the Congress and to this body rather than 
the military-industrial complex, the C.I.A., and the President it must return.
The imperative, likewise, remains before us in the realm of international 
relations. We are not the policemen of the world. The United Nations is. We 
the United States must recognize its function now, not only in UNICEF and 
the World Health Organization, but in the authority of the General Assembly 
and the Security Council. WTe must enter a race for peace, rather than a race 
for armament.
But the mechanics of any program, be it the U.N. or the Peace Corps, 
will neither initiate its success nor determine its benefits. We who stand here 
tonight voice our concern for humanity — not the mechanics of government. 
The McCarthy concept of “people power” not only encompasses the realm 
of elections, it concerns the very reason for any social organization’s forma­
tion. — people.
Let me make it clear, we must recognize people not only for their vote, 
but also for their value as indivudual members of society. We are all respon­
sible for each other — and not just our small circle of friends. Those who 
demanded the responsible action of the Nazi military hierachy in the Nuren- 
berg trials, must likewise, demand the same of themselves in America, 1968. 
The cry “law and order” rings once again in our land as it did in Germany in 
1932. We must recall last April 8th when the flames from the Hill district 
made us all aware that much had gone wrong in our society and that it must 
be mended now. We could stand innocently by, but the innocence will be 
covered with the blood of our inactivity.
Three qualities must then develop if peace is to be achieved. We must 
develop them in ourselves and encourage them in others. First, our con­
sciences must be activated not just to situations where our sacrifice might 
exceed our desire, as in the Vietnam draft. We must be concerned wherever 
the cries of pain and injustice arise, and wherever the fortunes are built on 
the shattered hope of others. Secondly, we must take courage to voice and 
work for the benefit of all.
And finally we must extend our courage into a commitment that sees 
through to the end the realization of peace. In both peace and civil rights 
movements we have made know the cause, but our concerted efforts are 
meager.
More than a year ago the Coalition for a Democratic Alternative was 
formed. Their words were clear and conscise, “We wish an alternative to 
Lyndon Johnson.” A candidate was found, Senator Eugene J. McCarthy. 
But it would take many hands, hearts and voices to amass 601 delegate votes 
Many now say he was too good for the American people. His candidacy is 
ended, but the cause for which he campaigned is not dead, there is all 
to be accomplished. The greatest insult to those who worked would be now 
to give up the search for peace.
This then isi a set of challenges, and although far from fulfillment on 
November 4, 1968 we must remember them and with commitment we must 
once again accept them. The word has gone forth to this time, this place, 
and to this people, and the high standards of strength and sacrifice have not 
been forgotten in our search to secure the freedom of man. Where in the past 
we have made progress we must not fear to continue, and in the present we 
must have the courage to amend our errors, for the belief of others in our 
capacity to reform is at stake. The finishing of the search for peace is still 
in the distance, but we must continue where we have begun. We must seek 
to establish peace everywhere for everyone in all realms of human endeavor. 
The dramatic demonstrations and beginnings are passed, not in supression 
but in necessity, for there is much to be done. For while some armaments can 
defer war, only men can make peace. Our peace must be demonstrated not 
just in our voices, but in our accomplishments. It is then before us to work 
together for peace knowing full well that we must continue where others 
have begun. For Sir Thomas More’s words must be our guide in this 
season, “But since in fact we see that avarice, anger, envy, pride, sloth, 
and stupidity commonly profit far beyond humility, fortitude, justice, 
and thought, and we have to choose to be human at all. . . why then perhaps 
we must stand fast................”
lUadayN bJhUad uJddFCU

---------------------------------------------------

page 4—THE TART AN-Wednesday, November 6, 1968
Letters
beByCiyONr uIBf SUAN 2)
ROTC Enhances 
C'MU Curriculum
Editor, The Tartan:
In light of the recently popular 
movement on Pittsburgh campus­
es to criticize the existence of 
the ROTC program, I feel that 
some comment favoring its ex­
istence is in order. In particu­
lar, I would like to respond to 
David Greenburg’s letter to the 
Editor which appeared in the Oc­
tober 23rd edition of the Tar­
tan.
According to Mr. Greenburg, 
“. . . a university exists to serve 
the intellectual endeavors of stu­
dents and faculty.” I think that 
a truly intellectual university is 
one that offers a wide diversity of 
courses expressing as many dif­
ferent viewpoints as possible, 
with students free to choose many 
of their courses from this wide 
selection. The Military Science 
Department may or may not offer 
politically slanted courses. But 
even if it does, since the courses 
are electives, taken only by stu­
dents who choose to do so, the 
ROTC courses actually s«em to 
enhance the university curric­
ulum and benefit the students, 
since they widen the range of view­
point expressed at Carnegie-Mel- 
lon. Thus, I disagree with Mr. 
Greenburg, in that I feel a “neu­
tral” university, in the sense of 
one which avoids offering cours­
es with opinions or viewpoints, 
is not desirable. Such a univer­
sity might be more properly de­
scribed, not as neutral, but as 
sterile.
Critics of the ROTC program 
have a tendency to condemn its 
existence rather than its policies. 
If a student on campus wishes, 
no matter what his reasons, to 
take ROTC he should be allowed 
to do so. Otherwise, how can 
Camegie-Mellon remain a truly 
free, open-minded university? 
Isn’t one of the University’s roles 
to provide the students with a 
sampling of intellectual attitudes 
with which they may agree or dis­
agree? Certainly ROTC has as 
much a place on campus as the 
AFPF and SDS organizations.
The ROTC course cannot, in 
all fairness, be criticized as to­
tally lacking intellectual content, 
either. Every officer in the Mil­
itary Science Department is a 
college graduate, and some are 
earning Ph. D. graduate credit 
while stationed at Camegie-Mel- 
1 o n University. Perhaps Mr. 
Greensburg should enroll in a few 
advanced corps courses before crit­
icizing their academic excellence.
Many students may not be aware 
of the fact that the Military Sci­
ence Department’s program of­
fers one of the few remaining op­
portunities for students to ob­
tain a deferment for graduate 
studies in the field of their choice. 
Certainly, in this role, as long as 
the program remains voluntary, 
ROTC is a very valuable asset 
to the University.
Camegie-Mellon has been criti­
cized frequently for its policies. 
Mr. Geenburg went so far as to 
object to its having attempted to 
protect him from becoming involv - 
ed with the IRS as a tax evader. 
But as far as its policy of offer­
ing Military Science courses on 
campus as electives is concerned,
I think the University deserves 
the thanks of the student body.
Martin Fisk
ROTC Cadet 
Opposes Viet Nam
Editor, GcU GyadyCW
I oppose the war in Viet Nam. I 
am also presently enrolled in 
ROTC. The two situations are not 
incompatible
The war in Viet Nam should 
not be continued if for no other 
reason but that it pollutes the fi­
ber of this country by generat­
ing hypocrisy. The graduate stu­
dent becomes an “instructor” 
to avoid the draft, while under­
grads wish daily for a heart mur­
mur, bad eyes, or anything to 
qualify for a 1-Y deferment. A 
man can fudge a deferment or go 
to war or to jail.
None is the proper way to op­
pose the war. But a good cold 
war security for this country is 
essential to its life, Viet Nam 
or not. Iam in ROTC and fulfill­
ing my military obligation be­
cause I believe in maintaining 
that security and not compromis­
ing it to protest the war.
That war is maintained by pol­
iticians and industrialists, not 
the army.
Is the military establishment 
firmly entrenched on this cam­
pus? Yes. The Defense Depart­
ment, through its Advanced Re­
search Projects Agency, pays over 
half of the Computer Center’s 
budget for this and most other 
colleges in the country.
Should one’s ROTC grade effect 
his cumulative average? No.
John Foote
Food Management 
Council Disbanded
Editor, The Tartan:
Recently, action by the Student 
Food Management Council 
(SFMC) was instrumental in low­
ering prices for cash customers 
in the C-MU dining facilities. On 
the surface, it appears that stu­
dents are making some headway 
in the struggle to have their in­
terests considered in decisions 
affecting their lives and pocket- 
books. This is not, however, a 
true description of the situation. 
Food Service Management and 
the SFMC were constantly antag­
onistic to one another during 
the entire discussion about pric­
es. The members of the SFMC, 
including both co-chairmen, felt 
that much more could be gained 
by cooperation rather than dis­
sension. As a result, the followihg 
motion was entertained by the 
SFMC:
Because the Food Service 
Management has indicated an 
indifference to the student’s 
problems, the Student Food 
Management Council should be 
disbanded. This will be our de­
cision until such time that some 
person in authority (in Food 
Service Management), who has 
the students’ interests and con­
cerns in mind, will be there to 
hear them.
The motion was passed, 11 for 
and none against. Thus, the SFMC 
is now dissolved until manage­
ment restructures itself to in­
clude student interests officially 
in every phase of its decision 
making.
Frank Morra
Body Recognized
Editor, The Tartan:
I commend you for finally rec­
ognizing that there is a student 
body. I commend the administra­
tion for finally recognizing that 
there is a student body. Recogni­
tion is only half the battle. I hope 
the student body does not dismem­
ber itself.
David Spangler
Permanent l.D. cards are 
now available in Hunt Library 
and students should pick them 
up as soon as possible. The 
temporary cards will not be 
honored at campus offices af­
ter Friday, Nov. 8, 1968.
C-MU Offers ‘PsychoactiveDrugs’
“Because of the widespread 
increase in the use of psychedel­
ic or mind-altering drugs, the de­
sire for accurate and precise in­
formation has become a neces­
sity. We request that Carnegie- 
Mellon University offer a course 
or seminar dealing effectively 
with this situation.”
About two weeks after this re­
quest had been passed around 
and signed by at least 50 inter­
ested students. Dean Steinberg 
published this response “(Oc­
tober 30, 1968) by mail ballot, 
the college council has approv­
ed the following course:
C-520 Psychoactive Drugs. 9 
units. Psychological, social, and 
physiological aspects of drug use 
with emphasis on psychedelic 
or hallucinogenic drugs. Effects 
of more common substances 
such as alcohol and tranquiliz­
ers will also be discussed. An 
attempt will be made to present 
an objective view of both the bene­
fits and dangers of drugs, par­
ticularly as they are used by stu­
dents.
The course will be offered sec­
ond semester. It will be taught 
by one of the physiological psy­
chologists in the Department 
(either Professor Korn, Prof. 
Goldstein, Prof. Moyer, or Prof. 
Morgan).
This course is not designed to 
encourage or discourage students 
from using drugs. It will merely 
give them more understanding of 
drugs and more knowledge of the 
various effects that drugs can 
have.
“Too many people are taking 
drugs indiscriminately,” one of 
the petitioners said. “If they’re 
going to take something, then 
they ought to know what they’re 
doing.”
In the original petition it was 
proposed that the course be open 
to anyone, and that “complete 
academic freedom be given to the 
determine the direction of the 
course.” It was hoped that there: 
be some student-control of this 
course and that they be able to 
dictate the topics of discussion. 
It was also suggested that it be 
a seminar course. The approved 
course, called Psychoactive Drugs, 
is a formalization of what was 
proposed in the petition. The Head 
of the Psychology Department 
said, “the tone of several points 
in the petition suggests that what 
the students want is a somewhat 
informal media of information 
exchange. That might be good, but 
it’s not the academic course that 
we propose.”
Already, there are three sec­
tions of the course. A prerequis­
ite of C-861 (Introduction to Psy­
chology) so that all the students 
have some experience with the 
physiological aspects of psychol­
ogy, but also to somewhat re­
strict enrollment. If the num­
ber of students interested in tak­
ing the course continues to grow, 
then either enrollment will be fur­
ther restricted (preference giv­
en to upperclassmen) or else it 
will be conducted as a lecture 
course.
A couple of students wanted a 
course on drugs. They asked 
Dean Swank who to go to about 
making a proposal to the adminis­
tration and he said to make a 
petition. The school is very re­
sponsive to the wants of the stu­
dents, and as Dean Steinberg put 
it, “This mechanism (Petition­
ing) is always available to the 
students. Though all experiences 
are not necessarily learning ex­
periences . . . there are ways in 
which courses can be set up, 
so that contemporary social prob­
lems can be examined.”
If you are interested in mind- 
expanding drugs, take C-520, 
“Psychoactive Drugs.” It offers 
a lot and you will learn great 
things. And who knows? Maybe 
you’ll never have to trip.
Keep CMU 
Beautiful
LNS GLOSSARY
Karl Marx—a bearded radical 
Everyman, who said everything 
to everybody if we just didn’t 
use different translations.
Constituencies—groups of peo­
ple with identifiable life-styles 
around which they could be or­
ganized if anyone could figure 
out who they are and what they 
want.
Life Styles—the way you get 
out of bed in the morning, com­
bined with your relations to the 
means of production and your 
attitude toward your father.
Organize — the way a radical 
gets out of bed in the morning 
combined with his relationship to 
the people and his attitude toward 
his father.
CONFLICT OF INTEREST? The
Buffalo Draft Resistance plan­
ned a protest at the home of Don­
ald A. Doino because, among oth­
er things, he is one of four fun­
eral directors on a local draft 
board of ten.
1. Making out your 
laundry list?
2. You?
Writing a poem.
j,m:
Listen. “How do I love 
thee, Myrna, let me 
count the ways...”
3. That’s Browning.
What about: “A jug of 
wine, a loaf of bread, 
And thou, Myrna, 
beside me...”
Then how am I going 
to show Myrna how 
much I care?
5. Why don’t you see if you can 
land one of those great jobs 
Equitable is offering.
The work is fascinating, the 
pay good, and the 
opportunities unlimited.
All of which means you’ll 
be able to take care of a 
wife, to say nothing of 
kids, extremely well.
“O, my Myrna is like 
a red, red rose...”
For details about careers at Equitable, see your Placement Officer, or 
write: Lionel M. Stevens, Manager, College Employment.
THE ^EQUITABLE
The Equitable Life Assurance Society of the United States 
1285 Avenue of the Americas, New York, New York 10019 
cy FmOU1 g..BICOyiCt Ff.1BtNIl sHJ © Equitable 1968
Make an appointment through your Placement Officer to see Equitable s 
employment representative on ( Nev. 20, JlL 8. ' or write: Lionel M. 
Stevens, Manager, College Employment.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, November 6, 1968-THE TARTAN-—Page 5
Re Con System Innovates 
New Benefits for Graduates
“A job you never thought of in 
a company you never heard of 
. . . may have everything you’ve 
dreamed of.” This is the purpose 
of ReCon, a national computer­
ized pre-screening system used 
in college placement offices 
across the country.
College seniors complete a 
questionnaire which lists their 
first, second, and third job choic­
es, academic background, work 
experience, geographical prefer­
ence, etc. The student also pro­
vides ReCon with a copy of his 
resume. The questionnaires 
are then coded and fed into a com­
puter.
A similar questionnaire is fil­
ed by each company, listing the 
qualifications they are seeking, 
either for a specific job or gen­
eral employment. The form in­
cludes space for specific details 
of the company’s particular job 
requirements, as well as the im­
portance of each specification. 
The variables on the company 
questionnaire are ranked as to 
degree of importance as follows: 
required.” “IMPORTANT,“ “some 
consideration," and “no consid­
eration.” “This allows for a more 
precise definition of the ideal 
candidate which is the basis for 
the scan and selection by the com­
puter.”
The company's form is then 
fed into a computer and a match 
is made with those students who 
fulfill the various qualifications. 
“Based on an elaborate weighting 
system, the computer selects 
the optimum candidates by scan­
ning the data bank. The computer 
selects and alphabetically prints 
out the names of the 10-30 candi­
dates who best fit the specified 
ideal.” A list of these students 
along with a copy of their resume 
is sent to the company recruiter.
ReCon has obvious benefits to 
the student, the employer, and 
the placement office.
“If anything, the student at 
the small college has the most 
to gain. As an example, let's say 
such a college has two excep­
tional students who would be ideal 
candidates for a company in a cer­
tain industry. The company may 
never have hired anyone from this 
college — or even visited it. But, 
the computer brings these stu­
dents to the attention of the firm 
and interviews are arranged. To­
day, the chances are good that 
these students would be overlook­
ed and would miss out on an em­
ployment opportunity that could
7x12 RUGS4«
With 9x12 or Larger»29 *39 *49 *69 cTsCl9x15s, 1­v12», lixl5i, 12ills,»fe.f 
Mellon, fNI Cr»W, tajrowsy
Chase’s“NaO fgvmN NU !Ab FA.tR SHADYSIDE 5432 WALNUT ST.
10 AM to 9 PM
Sat. till 5 P 
611-1025
reshape their lives,” according 
to Raymond H. Stockard. Univer­
sity of Rhode Island placement 
director.
There is neither a cost to the 
student nor to the University 
for this service. Industry foots 
the entire bill from their recruit­
ing budget.
The questionnaire filed by the 
student is kept confidential and 
only the resume is released to the 
prospective employer. The inter­
ested employer contacts the stu­
dent and the student then selects 
the companies which interest 
him. At the same time, using Re­
Con does not prevent the student 
from using other means to find a 
job.
As of this date, only 400 out of 
30,000 United States companies 
recruit at C-MU. This system 
would enable many more to con­
tact Carnegie's graduating sen­
iors.
ReCon has been greeted en­
thusiastically by industry, too. 
One company reported that, “Af­
ter evaluating the first 30 names 
printed out by the ReCon pro­
gram, we found that ReCon list­
ed 80% of the recruits that inter­
ested us. As far as we are con­
cerned, this percentage is high 
enough to warrant our continued 
use of the ReCon program. ”
Another company reported that 
out of 28 candidates whose 
names they received, 22 were 
almost perfect matches and 6 
were very close possibilities.
The system allows each com­
pany to interview more students 
than they would be able to speak 
with, it helps companies locate 
candidates for hard-to-fill posi­
tions, and eliminates the wasted 
hours spent screening out those 
uninterested or unqualified for 
the particular job the company 
has to offer. By using ReCon, the 
company can also visit campuses 
throughout the* country that have 
not previously been contacted 
because of time and cost limi­
tations.
The use of this pre-screening 
program also benefits the col­
lege placement office. “The ob­
vious byproduct resulting from 
the use of this tool would be the
"Fiddler on the Roof’ 
Begins at Nixon
“Fiddler On The Roof,” the 
prize-winning, world-acclaimed 
musical, begins a four week en­
gagement at the Nixon Theatre 
Monday night, Nov. 11, and will 
run through Saturday, Dec. 7. 
“Fiddler-' was staged and chore­
ographed by Jerome Robbins.
A Harold Prince production, 
the musical features the ’ emi­
nent Broadway and touring star 
Paul Lipson in the prince role. 
Broadway stage »luminary, Mimi 
Randolph, is cast as his wife 
Golde. Hghlighting the score 
are such internationally popular 
songs as “If I Were A Rich Man. ” 
“Matchmaker, Matchmaker,” 
“Sunrise, Sunset” and “Do You 
Love Me.”
“Fiddler On The Roof” has ta­
ken its place among another Jer­
ome Robbins-staged musical, 
“West Side Story,” as one of the 
epic song-dance-comedy-dramas 
of the modern American theatre. 
It was selected as “best musi­
cal” by the New York critics. In 
the same year it won nine “Tony” 
Awards, a National Catholic The­
atre Conferehce Award and a Page 
One Newspaper Guild Award. 
London newspaper critics select­
ed the company there as best 
musical of the season. The fa­
mous national company, coming 
here, is in its third year and is 
fresh from a six-month date at 
the famous Caesar’s Palace The­
atre in Las Vegas.
“Fiddler” plays nightly at the 
Nixon'at 8:30 and has matinees 
on Wednesdays and Saturdays at 
2:00. Tickets are now on sale 
at the Nixon Box-office or through 
Network Ticket Agencies (lo­
cated in all National Record Mart 
stores).
release of placement office staff 
time for more and better career 
planning and vocational guidance 
which, in fact, would be vital for 
the success of such a system,” 
according to Stockard.
College campuses are the pri­
mary source of high-talent per­
sonnel for industries. Computer­
ized pre-screening will help make 
C-MU’s placement office a more 
effective organization.
Conference Focuses 
On Ghetto Education
By SUZI STOCKTON
Some persons feel everyone is 
provided with equal educational 
opportunities. This is untrue. Mr." 
Robert McCurdy, of the Alumni 
Office has announced a Conference 
on Ghetto Education to be held 
in the Skibo Ballroom on Nov. 
23. “We are faced with an urgent 
social crisis. Therefore, it is our 
obligation to give Alumni and stud - 
ents all sides of issues.” ihe 
Conference will focus on the prob­
lems of the Ghetto child, and what 
is being done to improve his edu­
cation. Reservations can be made 
through the Alumni Office. Each 
ticket is priced at $2.00, which 
includes the whole day’s proceed­
ings. The program is as follows:
9:45 - Welcome and Introduc­
tion
10:00 - The Problem as I see it - 
The speaker will be Dr. Norman 
Johnson. He is head of the May­
or’s Committee on Human Re­
sources and Adjunct Associatd
Professor pf Sociology at the 
University of Pittsburgh.
11:00 - Panel - What is Being 
Done? The panel will discuss 
how the Ghetto problem is being 
combatted, and what can be done 
to improve education. Dr. Louis 
Kishkunas, Pittsburgh Board of 
Public Education, will discuss 
the schools. Mattie Addis, Com­
munity Leader, will focus upon 
the community. Dr. Robert Kibee, 
Vice President of Planning at 
C-MU, will focus upon colleges.
12:45 - Lunch - Roy Innis, Na­
tional Director of CORE.
2:00 - What I Think About 
What I Heard! Three or four 
reactors will discuss the con­
ference.
Tirak Will Speak 
On His Explorations
The second C-MU Forum will 
be held on Nov. 13, at 6:00 P.M. 
Cocktails will be served in the 
Faculty Dining Room, followed 
by dinner and discussions in thd 
Ballroom.
Ivan Jirak, Assistant Re­
search Historian in the C-MU 
History Department, will speak, 
on “The Exploration of a Lost 
World.” Mr. Jirak recently head­
ed an expedition into an unexplor­
ed area in Venezuela. Angel Falls, 
the highest waterfall in the world, 
marks the spot where 18 men con­
ducted their search for the “Lost 
World” atop a 6,000 ft. high 
mesa. The explorers represented 
the Pittsburgh Explorers Club, 
The Pittsburgh Zoological Society, 
and Pittsburgh Press.
Tickets may be obtained from 
the Alumni Office for $3.00 per 
person.
C-MU Dames Meeting 
Tuesday, Nov. 12, 8:00 P.M. 
Highlander Room 
Wives of C-MU students or 
or married women students 
invited.
Says Wilson H. Elkins, Presi­
dent of the University of Mary­
land, “I have come to the con­
clusion that money is by far 
the most important element in 
the development of the institu­
tion.”
Nicholas Flournoy - Director of 
Community Organization, Re­
ligious Agency for Human Re­
newal
Ed Ellis - Artist, United Black 
Fund 
Mrs. Helen Evans 
James Thomas
WALLYS
ecsSpGwJcjg:F“ k 
? sF! 
HUSH-PUPPIES 
LOAFERS 
BATES FLOATERS 
FLORSHEIM
All
Popular
Prices!
? RgsF! 
HUSH-PUPPIES 
LOAFERS 
FLATS
DRESS SHOES
• WHITE CLINIC DUTY SHOES •
3612 Forbes Avenue (Across from Strand Theatre)
THE FILBERT STREET MALL
Proudly Announce The Arrival
Conceived: Aug 7x, x12R 
Labor began: October U, x12R 
Length: UG feet. Width: x2 feet. 
Height: 7 floors.
Come and
Of
Our Baby
St ate
0peMTs
COMPANY
P.S.: Dont bring presents, we've got everything!
’?Y TFwhUad gdaUUd vyww ”Y’:-”-” gcy.oOF.U
The entire action of this production 
takes place in 1300 not so sq. feet at 728 
Filbert St.—Shadyside.
TIME:
MON.-THURS.............11 a.m. — 9 p.m.
FRL & SAT................10 a.m. — 11 p.m.S4«,« omee f« th mtS«,cmuumht
CAST
STARRING
PANTS Bonnie & Clyde, Harlow, Popeye 
DRESSES • Juliet, Sada Thompson, KubLa 
Kahn ( Mrs.), Queen Victoria, Barbarella
ALSO FEATURING 
TOGAS QUO VADIS
KNITS TALE OF TWO CITIES
CREPES THE RAVEN
LEATHER THE WILD ONES
BUCKSKIN LAST OF THE MOHICANS 
SUPPORTING ROLES 
Hayed by Lotta Belts and Stretch Hose
For '68 ...the best shapes in Pgh. come from...
M.W. MOTORS
Authorised 1 oltsuagen Dealer
ROUTE 8, ETNA

---------------------------------------------------

President’s Emphasis on Issues 
Destroys Food Management Council
Page 6—THE TARTAN—Wednesday, November 6, 1968ROTC(Continued from Page 1)
cerns in mind,will be there
to hear them.
Obviously, a Student Food Ser­
vice Committee is needed. There 
must be a liaison between the 
management and the students 
in order to satisfy the students 
as well as make the job of satis­
fying easier for the management. 
So totally disbanding the Stu­
dent Food Management Council 
proves nothing, in itself. This act 
is a tactic to show the administra­
tion that the students really do 
care. The students realize that 
this liaison simply cannot exist 
if there is a language barrier, 
and, by way of a sort of strike, 
hope to make the administration 
realize it too.
“We’re finally dealing directly 
with the issues, like President 
Stever told us. And we hope that 
the administration soon corrects 
the communication problem,” 
said Gloria Treppel. one of the 
co-chairmen of SFMC. J. Michael 
Armentrout, the other co-chair­
man, also hopes that the message 
is clear and that some action will 
be taken very soon. In his state­
ment to the press. Mr. Armen­
trout said, “There was a nasty 
breakdown in communication.’’’
This school is expanding. The 
students do not want to see it 
grow uncontrollably; it must be 
nursed every step of the wav, and 
with a great deal of love and care. 
The administration appreciates 
this and needs it, for it is the stu­
dents who are effected by the 
changes. But when student con­
cerns are no longer heeded, what 
is the point of making the effort?
By Susan Jacobi
As a result of President Ste- 
ver’s speech on Tuesday, October 
29, in which he told students to 
deal with issues and not person­
alities, the Student Food Manage­
ment Council (SFMC) has been 
abolished. As of the meeting on 
Wednesday, October 30, where a 
motion to disband was passed
11 for, none against, and 2 ab- 
stenting, the SFMC is no longer 
in existence. It is hoped that the 
administration will recognize the 
reasons for this action and will 
act accordingly so that the SFMC 
can be reinstated.
It has gotten to the point where 
students are throwing up their 
hands in dispair and saying, “We 
give up.” Communication be­
tween the administration and the 
students on questions concerning 
food service is being lifted out 
of its rut, it is true. But not fast 
enough. The management just 
did not seem to understand what 
the students wanted, and even 
when they did, the students com­
plained that nothing was being 
done about it. On Wednesday, Oc­
tober 30, at the meeting of the 
SFMC, Frank Morra made this, 
motion:
Because the Food Service 
Management had indicated 
an indifference to student pro­
blems, I move that we dis­
band the Student Food Man­
agement Council. This will 
be our decision until such time 
that some person in authority 
in Food Service, who has the 
students’ interests and con-
News Analysis
The President’s Message
By Dave Kamons
In the absence of any other formal policy declarations by 
the University Administration, President Stever’s State of the 
University speech must be taken as the most significant official 
utterance. We feel it proper, indeed necessary, to publish some 
comment on his recent address.
GPk (r)Rkbg)G5 )r gMu)kG5
Dr. Stever implies a strong demarcation between the in­
volvement of members of the university community and action 
by the University as an institution. While saying nothing about 
limitations of personal involvement, he states flatly, “We do not 
have the power to carry the banner of C-MU out on all social 
issues. When they become educational issues we can speak up ..”
Dr. Stever noted three broad areas in which the University 
serves society: a) sorting out what is good and what is bad in 
the historical past; b) preserving what is good; c) seeking ways 
to change the future for the better. We feel that this places the 
duty of the University in terms too impersonal; but then the 
University he speaks of is not the personal school, but the in­
corporate institution. On the other hand, we can see social issues 
which have been defined to take on implications of educational 
issues and have been acted on as such.
gG(BkrG fMjkb
What we take as policy on student power is that it is proper 
and will be respected if confined to conventional channels. Dr. 
Stever has even expressed acceptance of the peaceful demonstra­
tion as a means of lobbying. However, he has plainly stated that 
the administration will hold no negotiations nor render any de­
cisions under the stress of confrontation, because people do not 
think clearly under these conditions.
There are two vague areas in dealing with demonstrations 
that we feel must be elucidated. One is the statement that “There 
are certain rules to keep a demonstration peaceful.” None of 
these rules were set forth in the address. Also, the action taken 
in case of a disruptive demonstration and the judicial process 
and disciplinary measures that might be taken should be clearly 
delineated. We do not distrust his discretion; we feel only that 
the student body should be informed of its rights and the penal­
ties for overstepping limitations.
There was also an uneasy progression in comments on de­
monstrations. Fron an opening statement condoning peaceful 
assembly, remarks turned eventually to intimations of outside 
intervention (if the situation warranted) and to a statement that 
students should “think twice before joining any demonstration,” 
regardless of its initial peaceful intent. We hesitate to say this 
was stated out of fear of an uncontrollable situation; we inter­
pret rather that the administration has learned from the unfor-
who elect the course to evade the gym requirement, could be forgotten.
ROTC was then objected to by a senator on the grounds that it has 
a “chilling effect” on freedom of speech. “How can any educated per­
son follow in blind obedience?” the ROTC member countered. “This is 
why ROTC is on campus,” he added.“People with good abilities and 
good minds are here.”
Before debate closed, the argument against ROTC was summariz­
ed: “The goals of the Army are different from the goals of the Uni­
versity. The question here is the role of the University in society. The 
University should be a free forum, an open society. ROTC, on the oth­
er hand, has a ‘chilling effect’ and is not in accordance with these edu­
cational goals.”
“ROTC has no chilling effect, nor do its members follow in blind 
obedience. It is a purely voluntary program in which you learn the fun­
damentals of a science,” was the closing comment of the ROTC rep­
resentative.
sFd faJ1 jaFdUO lUydwU TwF,­
"Don't play cool,” said Big A1 
Brodax, producer of the new ani­
mated Beatle motion picture Yel­
low Submarine. “How many lousy 
little Yale professors get to meet 
the Beatles?” Erich Segal, profes­
sor of classics could have replied, 
“How many college professors are 
writing a screenplay for the Bea­
tles?”
It began with Brodax’s request 
that Segal hop a jet to London to 
collaborate on the script for Yel­
low Submarine, a United Artist 
release.
Working from the Beatles hit 
song “Yellow Submarine,'' Segal 
and co-authors Brodax, Jack Men­
delsohn and Lee Minoff, whipped 
up a screenplay.
Digging deep into his classical 
background. Segal supplied the 
story’s imagery inspired by the 
mythical voyages of Greek and 
Roman adventurers, complete with 
weird monsters and strange places. 
These were blended with current 
satire to provide a mod-Odyssey.
While Segal himself discounts 
the significance of his contribu­
tions. saying, “what I did tor the 
movie is nothing really . . . the ver­
bal inventiveness and the creative
use of the standard pun.
Segal himself has some ambi­
valent feelings toward his grow­
ing film reputation: “An unfor­
tunate side effect of writing Yel­
low Submarine is that it gave some 
of my students the impression that 
I care more about the Beatles than 
about Euripides. They’re more 
swayed by my having had a drink 
with Ringo than by my lectures.”
Although Segal has achieved the 
enviable distinction of having one 
of his lyrics accepted by the Bea­
tles for their new film song, “Lucy 
in the Sky with Diamonds,” he 
still remainds very much a mem­
ber of the academic community.
Yellow Submarine, starring Ser­
geant Pepper's Lonely Heart's 
Club Band, is produced by A1 Bro­
dax and presented by Apple Films 
as a King Features Production. The 
film was directed by George Dun­
ning and designed bv Heinz Edel- 
man. It is in Color by Deluxe.
The original story by Lee Min­
off. based on the song ' The Yel­
low Submarine " by John Lennon 
and Paul McCartney, was written 
for the screen by Minoff. All Bro­
dax. Jack Mendelsohn and Erich 
Segal.
tunate experience of other institutions and will act deliberately 
and respectfiilly, and not out of fear of the power of the stu­
dent body.
GPk uMvv(r)ueG)Mr !ef
Quantizing opinion and ferreting out sentiment from any 
major group has always been difficult on this campus. A typi­
cal survey of the student body receives less than 50 percent re­
sponse. Surveys of the faculty are equally sparse. The President 
paid recognition to this, but he offered no solutions that might 
ameliorate the problem.
In his speech he called for a study of communications be­
tween faculty, student, administration, and “maybe even the 
trustees”. The Tartan, having a vested interest in communica­
tions, hopes to investigate this further in co-operation with 
the administration. What changes in communications patterns 
can be effected are still totally unresolved.
How an effective communications network would effect 
policy is also cloudy. Of course, such a network would avoid 
much grief arising from necessarily uninformed action. How it 
would reshape policy is total speculation.
jPM fe5gq
President Stever allayed fears that the University is con­
trolled by non-academic forces which clutch the purse-strings. 
") .JCxd dcFC­ we are under the control yet of any group of so­
ciety except ourselves; however, there are constraints on us 
with respect to the way we act.”
In his analysis of the institution’s income, he left a consider­
able portion (as high as 50 percent) nebulously accounted. The 
figure from the Federal Government (“over 30 percent”) was
beByCiyONr By SUAN 7)
fellowship Awarded 
In Creative Writing
The Third Annual Creative
Writing Fellowship will be 
awarded to fourteen college
seniors by the National Board of 
Judges of the Book-of-the-Month 
Club. This fellowship program, 
administered by the College
English Association, calls for the 
awarding of fourteen fellow­
ships of $3,000 each to seniors 
in American and Canadian col­
leges and universities.
Preliminary screening will be 
done by a board of twenty-one 
regional judges, three from each 
of seven geographic areas, which 
have approximately equal student 
population.
The Book-of-the-Month Club 
Writing Fellowships were crea­
ted with the thought that there 
are many fellowships available 
for those who wish to pursue 
scientific and scholarly investiga­
tions. Relatively few are avail­
able to the young creative writer, 
however, and this program will 
help rectify this situation.
The Fellowship Program is 
open to anyone who will be a 
senior in an accredited college 
or university in the United States 
or Canada on January 1, 1969. 
Closing date for entries is January 
1,1969.
Application blanks and full 
information about the Program 
may be obtained from any col­
lege English Department or by 
writing to Miss Margery Darrell, 
Managing Director, Book-of-the- 
Month Club Writing Program, 
c o College English Association, 
280 Park Avenue, New York, N.Y. 
10017.
Winners will be notified May 1, 
1969, and awards presented on 
June 15, 1969.
Classified
Artist's Model, spare time, ex­
perience unnecessary, top wag­
es. Send photo, brief resume, 
to A-R Associates, P.O. Box 
7220, Oakland Station, Pgh., 
Pa.I---------------—--
Wanted: Babysitter. Mature 
woman, good references. Day­
time 11-5. 521-4459.
Thanksgiving Bus to New York
$18.50. Fred Messing, Box 250.
At your
newsstand
NOW
Campaign 1968, RIP .. m«««
by Martin Dubpwitùr à
ir A N.rse FcWcs <* mwvwi*or /.*A ayntpoMum «*r 1 —s j
wu* f y-
More on the War Against the
Young: Marfin Duberman says 
those in power in our universi­
ties are blind to student 
principles.
James Dickey on Allan Seager 
and Theodore Roethke.
No More Vietnams? Is it even
realistic to insist on this? ... 
Where does the Vietnam ex­
perience leave us in our rela­
tions with the U.S.S.R. and 
China? (The first of two ex­
cerpts from a conference at 
the Adlai Stevenson Institute in 
Chicago.)

---------------------------------------------------

ì
WaO dvtO ’UF uNAIOCN lmNJHJti vN dro?
by Bernd Pahl
There has been an unusually 
prolific amount of work being 
done during the last four years 
in an area of interest to all of 
us—namely ourselves. We, the 
students, have been:
. . . injected, inspected, de- 
tected, infected, neglected, 
an’ selected.
We have been scrutinized. We 
have been put under the micro- 
scope while we were zygphouliz- 
ing. (Yeah, zygphoul . . . you’ll 
probably have to look that one 
up. Don’t use an abridged dicti­
onary, either!)
And you should see all the 
things they know about us! Wow! 
The correlations, regressions, 
cross-indexes and random sam­
ples will simply boggle your little 
mind. People (oh, excuse me, I 
mean professors and researchers) 
are making their living off of 
us. There have been books, jour­
nal articles, seminars, talks, lec­
tures, teachings and most of all, 
concern. What are we, the hope 
pride joy leaders of tomorrow 
doing? Why aren’t we out some­
where stuffing a telephone booth? 
Don’t girls panties interest us 
any more? (Well, personally . . .) 
what about the excess goldfish 
population? How could we . . .?
Well, I think that students ac­
tivism can be used to benefit. 
Matter of fact, I think student 
activism is the key to the future 
for both individuals and the uni­
versities. After all, everyone has 
been reading seeing, studying 
about it, and everyone knows 
what types of people comprise 
student activities and from what 
type of universities they come 
from (My English teacher in 
high school told me never to end 
my sentences with a preposition, 
and I didn’t like her, so cognitive 
balance is at work.) The ques­
tion is, “How can we use all this 
knowledge to maximum benefit?” 
Pay attention!
Benefit of Student Activism 
To the Individual
Everyone knows the following 
facts. Student activists are gen­
erally the brightest, most aca­
demically oriented students on 
the campus. They have deep hu­
manitarian interests, are concern­
ed with the structure of their 
environment, and rate high on 
various scales of thinking intro­
version, complexity, estheticisfn, 
autonomy, impulse expression, 
and religious liberalism. They 
come from economically and so­
cially privileged families. They 
are the cream of the crop. They 
are the bright and able ones. 
They are IT! Now the use of all 
this is obvious—if you are a stu­
dent activist, you can later point 
to all these traits and Bingo, 
there you are the cream of the 
crop. By association. In several 
years it will not be the college 
transcript that will be para­
mount, it will be the disciplinary 
record and your police file.
“Hey, Jack, this guy Ralph that 
applied for a job must really 
have some kinds of fantastic abil­
ity. Look at his record. Suspend­
ed for two weeks for staging a 
sit in in the CMU Men’s Room. 
Expelled for suggesting the Dean 
of Women prove her virginity. 
Jailed for creating a disturbance 
at the annual “Abolish February 
15th Rally. ” He’s got it all over 
this guy with the 3.9783 average 
out of 4.000 in Theoretical Nucle- 
armagnetohydrodynamics from 
Stanford.”
Student activists are generally 
the most psychologically stable 
(well, let’s say “healthy”.) And, 
after all, we all want to be con- 
sidered psychologically healthy. 
I don’t like to be considered a 
kook. Never got a job with NASA 
that way.
So, if you have the problems 
of an IQ of 70, schizophrenia, 
College Board Scores of 250 and 
310, you are concerned about your 
future, become a student activist. 
Picket. Protest. Bitch loud and 
long. And make sure you can 
prove it later. Baby, you’ll have 
it made, cool and clear!
And it will give credit to your
family. Your parents will point 
to you, their activist offspring, 
and be immediately recategorized 
as economically and socially priv­
ileged. Jhey will belong to the 
group that has more advanced 
degrees than parents of non-acti­
vists. They will have created a 
proper environment for you to 
grow up in. They have made it 
as parents. They are IT just as 
you are IT. They ought to raise 
your allowance for such a contri­
bution from you.
Benefit of Student Activism
To the Univeristy 
Everyone also knows these 
following facts. Centers of stu­
dent activism stem from the most 
capable schools. They are gener­
ally the most selective, the most 
academically and intellectually 
oriented. They generally have the 
inspiring faculty, the permissive 
attitude, the up-and-with-it phil­
osophy. They are the educational 
leaders. They are the ones that 
can attract the top students, the 
top faculty and claim to have the 
top administrators. After all, the 
presidents and deans that are 
nationally recognized are those 
that find effective means of deal­
ing with student dissent. Don’t 
you want to catapult good Dean 
Brown into national prominence 
by giving him an issue to effec­
tively handle? He’s been good to 
you, hasn’t he? Do him a favor! 
But please, Dean Brown, don’t 
bungle it!
If you, the students, were to 
pursue your benefits, you would 
be currently contributing to 
CM-U’s drive for excellence and 
national recognition. CM-U could 
say, “Yes, those problems with 
student dissent. You know how 
much the top universities have 
been suffering under this prob­
lem. And I’ll tell you, we have 
had more than our share. Why, 
we are doing our best to work 
out the problems, of course. 
Didn’t you hear Dean Brown on 
“Meet the Press” last night . . .?”
All of the top high school stu­
dents would be flocking at our 
gates, clamoring to be let in. 
Applications for admssion would 
triple. Mean SAT scores of the 
incoming class would approach 
780. Financial support would in­
crease due to increased visibility 
and obvious pursuit of excell­
ence. Dean Brown would become 
a national authority on campus 
administration. Skibo would have 
to be enlarged. The population of 
Pittsburgh would rise. Economic 
boom would follow. The Psy­
chology Department could enter 
the student-study business, pub- 
lish hundreds of articles. CWIU 
would become IT!
ConclusionY IUC”N tOO pavN pO”FO pvJNJC. 
for. -nW -PYs-( NaOFO”t CU NJiO 
to gUtO) uAffUtO tUiOUCO OgtO .ONt NaO tviO JIOv !O,UFO At vCI FAJCt vgg NaUtO !OvANJ,Ag( IOtmFJfNJHO tNvNJtNJmt) 5UA UC NaO vIiJCJtNFvMNJUCq.JHO At tUiO FOvtUCt NU mUifgvJC( "AJmw) uNAIOCNt — .U ivwO tJ.Ct( !Ab tgOOfJC. !v.t) uUiOUCO ivwO v IOvg pJNa v mvMNOFJC. tOFHJmO NU tAffgb !FOvwM,vtN v,NOF tgOOfrJCt) davF.O JN NU NaO tmaUUgqNaOb !OCO,JN vt iAma vt pO IU) uAffgb NaO mUft ACNa tU,NrFA!!OF CJ.aNtNJmwt) yWaOb gUUw FOvg UC Wx !AN IUCRN aAFN vt iAma vt NaUtO UNaOF wJCI)G kAN IOUIUFvCN JC ovmO mvCt) -FUp v !OvFI( gON bUAF avJF .FUp) 5UAF ,ANAFO IOfOCIt UC JN)
Late Letter
Editor, The Tartan
Yes, I said “bullshit" and I 
meant it!
President Stever said that he 
feels our war policy is decided 
by our political leaders (“All we 
can do is voice our dissent,” he 
said). I feel that I, along with 
much too large a segment of the 
American public are ignored by 
“our political leaders.” Dissent 
is much too tame a word for what 
this country needs before it wakes 
up.
In closing I reiterate. “BULL­
SHIT.”
Thomas D. G. Burgess II
faUOF.UCdxO vUOOytU
ydUCNJCAOI ,FUi kv.O 6)
too vague to be of value. He noted that government money is 
usually strictly controlled. Although there is no secret research 
carried on at this school, there is no publication accessible to 
the layman giving even an approximate distribution of govern­
ment funds and their attendant controls.
Likewise the category of “some more from private sources” 
tells us nothing. We can assume that this means such gifts as 
alumni contributions (which are rather small compared to 
schools of comparable size and reputation), and such major gifts 
as the library, Scaife and Warner Halls, and the Donner gift. 
Aside from the debatable architectural merits of these buildings, 
what other restrictions, if any, do these “private sources” place 
on our academic integrity?
We should like to ask what constraints are placed on our 
actions other than academic and social propriety? It would be 
enlightening for the administration to make these available.
!Mesg TMb GPk rk;G BkueBk
The boldest statement in this section of the address con­
cerned teaching. Dr. Stever called for an increase in teaching 
productivity, and a balance between teaching and research for 
the best interests of the community (leaving definition of “best 
interests” open.
There are many innovations in teaching available right 
now. Machine teaching and programmed texts which free pro­
fessorial talent from mechanical teaching and allow this tal­
ent to undertake the more important task of stimulating and 
councelling undergraduates, would be one of many possible 
changes. We hope that Dr Stever will attempt to stimulate in­
vestigation of increasing a teacher’s output without sacrificing 
the personalized education and intimacy of the student-teacher 
relationship that exists in most areas of the University. While 
his address made no particular mention of this constraint, its 
expressed intent that changes should not sacrifice the current 
successes of the University, but should make it stronger, implies 
this as an idealogical goal.
Wednesday, November 6, 196®—THE TARTAN—Paoe 7
The Hinsdale Memorial Elevator
Freshman Women Request No Hours
The freshman women are fol­
lowing in the footsteps of their 
predecessors, the sophomore 
class. At a meeting Monday night, 
October 30, forty freshmen voted 
to circulate a petition requesting 
no hours, with parental permis­
sion. The petition, if signed by a 
majority, will be submitted to 
AWS for their consideration af­
ter which the signatures will be 
forwarded to the administration. 
This was the procedure the soph­
omore women followed in their 
successful attempt for no hours.
The issue was fully discussed 
before a final petition was ap­
proved by a majority. After pre­
liminary comments that the re­
quest should be initiated and ac­
tivated by the freshmen without 
a “push” by other classes, the 
freshmen discussed the univers­
ity’s role in loco parentis.
“College students should be 
capable of self-discipline,” was 
the opinion of most of those who 
attended. It is the individual’s 
responsibility to keep up with 
her work,’’ one girl added.
Others expressed their opinion 
that “the university should not 
be concerned with what you do 
as long as it does not affect them. 
Only academic affairs should 
concern the school.”
The questions of whether hours 
should remain for the first se­
mester, or mid-semester, was 
then raised. Most agreed that 
there is no distinction between 
a girl’s attitude first and second 
semester. Therefore, “if you need 
hours one time, you probably 
need them all the time.”
“If you feel you need hours, 
that you need the discipline, you 
can have them. But don’t deprive 
others.”
That men do not have curfews 
was mentioned as an example of 
“the double standard.”
It was decided to circulate a 
petition requesting no hours with 
parental permission, effective im- 
mediately, to all floors. There 
are 252 freshmen women.
The administration was prais­
ed for their handling of the is­
sue of no sophomore hours. The 
freshmen hoped that would be 
granted the same privilege.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—THE TARTAN—Wednesday, November 6, 1968
Stevens Speech . . . Continued from Page 1
feet, we have the techniques to 
improve it.
Goals of the University:
The Next Decade
The main goal of CMU, the 
President said, is to keep up the 
reputation of the Engineering 
and Science, Industrial Manage­
ment and Fine Arts Departments, 
as well as to round out the Univer­
sity by strengthening the humani­
ties. improving the Liberal Arts 
school involves making weak 
areas strong, and developing the 
few bright points that already ex­
ist.
In order to do what we want, 
we must match our desires as a 
University with the donors' de­
sires. Happily, society has thus 
far co-operated in this respect 
The freest money CMU receives 
is from big business, he added.
Funding the University
“Who pays?” According to 
President Stever, tuition covers 
from one-third to 40%; the feder­
al government contributed over 
one-third; endowment covers 
one-tenth and the remainder is 
received from private sources.
The President cited three func­
tions of the University. The first 
involved a scholarly process, 
“to sort out the good and the bad 
from the past.”
The second process is a teach­
ing function. It involved pre­
serving the good.
Changing towards a better 
future was mentioned as a re­
search process.
Student should be involved in 
the University’s decisions, the 
President continued. The Office 
of Community Affairs, found­
ed upon the death of Dr. Martin 
Luther King, and no hours for 
sophomore women were men­
tioned as decisions in which the 
students participated success­
fully.
Dr. Stever then directly con­
fronted the issue of student pow­
er.
'The system is difficult to 
move, but it is moveable,” he 
stated.
Stick to issues, not personal­
ities and personnel, he recom­
mended. Everyone has a right to 
be treated humanely.
In the area of educational proc­
ess and teaching innovations. 
President Stever said we are 
“starting to get more productive. 
We should be leading the way. 
We are not.” We must work for a 
better University, he added.
In the following question and 
answer period, a question con­
cerning communications on the 
issue of the University’s policy 
of conferring the status of “in 
structor” to grad students to 
evade the draft was raised. The 
issue has been referred to Dr. 
Shatz and no decision or state­
ment has been made.
“If students are to be notified 
in advance of price increases, 
why were they not notified of the 
price raise in Skibo?” was the next 
question from the floor.
Dr. Sever answered that food 
must pay for itself; it must be 
of “reasonable” quality and quan­
tity, and it must satisfy most peo­
ple. Food service must also be 
a reasonable stabe operation.
“Why isn’t a higher priority giv­
en to the Fine Arts building than 
to the fraternities?” another stu­
dent asked.
We cannot lay down our own 
priorities. President Stever re­
plied. Money is usually donated 
to the Fine Arts Department for 
programs, not buildings, he ex­
plained.
Jorum ­!JImAoOI 
C^zechodfouaLia
The events of the last few 
months in Czechoslovakia and 
why the Soviet Union behaved as 
it did will be the subject of a 
talk by Prof. Jonathan Harris of 
the Pitt Political Science Depart­
ment at the Y’s Thursday Lunch­
eon Forum this week. Prof. Har­
ris teaches Soviet foreign policy 
at Pitt and will be examining the 
fate of Czechoslovakia as an ex­
ample of the “disintegration of 
the Socialist camp.”
Everyone is welcome to the 
event which begins at 12:30 in the 
Wherret room. Students may 
bring food from the Skibo cafe­
teria or the Snick Bar.
Next week, Prof. Dan Resnick 
of the History. Department at 
C-MU will begin a two-week 
examination of the Kerner Re­
port on civil disorders.
VritersWantedti
Do you like to read? Good.
W nen you must like to write, too. 
if you do, a great opportunity is 
being offered by the Chicago Lit­
erary Review. It is seeking book 
reviews by college students for 
publication. They have provided 
a book list and a list of require­
ments for the reviews which are r 
available in the Tartan office. If 
you are interested, either come 
to the office or else contact Su­
san Jacobi, 682-8899. Any reviews 
that are written will also be pub­
lished in the Tartan.
On Friday, November 22, the 
International Poetry Forum, in a
special program, will present ac- j 
tress Claire Bloom reading “A 
Choice of Poets” in the Carnegie 
Music Hall, Oakland, at 8:30 P.M.
Born in London, Claire Bloom 
was educated in England and the 
United States. At the age of 16, 
she appeared as Ophelia to Paul 
Scofield’s HAMLET in the Strat­
ford on Avon production, and 
shortly afterwards, in the WIN- ) 
TER’S TALE and KING JOHN. 
Both she and Richard Burton 
made their London debuts in 
THE LADY’S NOT FOR BURN­
ING.
Her other plays include RING 
AROUND THE MOON, playing 
opposite Paul Scofield, ROMEO 
AND JULIET, for the Old Vic, in b u 
both England and the United 
States, TWELFTH NIGHT, THE 
TEMPEST, ALL’S WELL THAT 
ENDS WELL, CORIOLANUS, all 
opposite Richard Burton, KING 
LEAR, opposite John Gielgud, 
DUEL OF ANGELS, with Vivien 
Leigh, RASHOMON, with Rod 
Steiger, to whom she is married, 
THE TROJAN WOMEN, AL- 
TONA, a play by Sartre, and 
IVANOV, again opposite John 
Gielgud, which was later taped 
for television. Other television 
performances include Jose Fer­
rer’s CYRANO DE BERGERAC, 
CAESAR AND CLEOPATRA, 
FIRST LOVE, MISALLIANCE, 
ANNA KARENINA, WUTHER- 
ING HEIGHTS, SOLDIER IN 
LOVE, and with husband Rod ’ 
Steiger, DARK LOVERS.
Her many films span Chaplin’s 
LIMELIGHT to THE SPY WHO 
CAME IN FROM THE COLD, 
LOOK BACK IN ANGER, THE 
OUTRAGE, THREE INTO TWO 
WON’T GO, THE ILLUSTRATED 
MAN, AND CHARLY.
Tickets for this special program 
are available at Kaufmann’s, 
Gimbels, Horne’s, the Pitt Stu­
dent Union. For further informa­
tion contact the International Poe­
try Forum Office in Carnegie Li­
brary (621-9893).
Furnished 
Apartments
Several studio 1 bedroom and 2 bed­
room apartments available Septem­
ber. Shadyside-Oakland. Air condi­
tioned, dishwasher, disposoll, park­
ing, cathedral celings. Grad Student 
or Staff preferred—singles only.
FROM $165.00
Do you think a bright young engineer 
should spend 
his most imaginative years on 
the same assignment?
Neither do we.
That’s why we have a two- year Rotation Program for graduating engineers who would prefer to explore several technical areas. And that’s why many of our areas are organ­ized by function—rather than by project.At Hughes, you might work on spacecraft, communi­cations satellites and/or tacti­cal missiles during your first two years.All you need is an EE, ME or Physics degree and talent.
If you qualify, we’ll arrange for you to work on several different assignments.. .and you can help pick them.
You may select special­ized jobs, or broad systems- type jobs. Or you can choose not to change assignments if you’d rather develop in-depth skills in one area.Either way, we think you'll like the Hughes ap­proach.It means you’ll become more versatile in a shorter time. r--------------
(And your | HUGHES i salary wiI show it.)
G MES AIRCRAFT COMPANY AEROSPACE DIVISIONS
Some of the current openings at Hughes:
Microwave & Antenna Engineers 
Electro-Optical Engineers 
Microcircuit Engineers 
Space Systems Engineers 
Missile Systems Engineers 
Guidance & Controls Engineers 
Spacecraft Design Engineers 
Weapon Systems Engineers 
Components & Materials Engineers 
Circuit Design Engineers 
Product Design Engineers
For additional information, 
please contact your College 
Placement Director or write:
Mr. Robert A. Martin 
Head of Employment 
Hughes Aerospace Divisions 
11940 W. Jefferson Blvd. 
Culver City, California 90230
U.S. Citizenship is required 
An equal opportunity employer
CAMPUS 
INTERVIEWS
November 19
Contact College Placement 
Office to arrange interview 
appointment.
261*4463 — Evenings 683-9591

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, November 6, 1968—THE TARTAN—Page 9
MBA’s in Finance at IBM
“In my job I can’t depend on cookbook solutions
“There are so many variables in a financial 
decision, a canned approach just won’t do,” 
says George Henke. “That’s why my graduate 
work has been such a tremendous help.”
George joined IBM after earning his MBA in 1967 
He started as an Associate Financial Analyst. 
Within seven months he was promoted to 
Financial Analyst. Today, he’s involved with 
the projection and evaluation of financial 
factors that affect the development, 
manufacturing and marketing of a product.
As the Financial Analyst on a pricing 
project, George starts with the basic 
concept—the engineer’s original idea. He 
continuously assesses all the factors that could 
influence the product’s introduction—competi­
tive products, market forecasts, production 
costs and its probable life expectancy. Ultimately, 
his analysis will help determine a price for the 
product that is both competitive and profitable.
Checked IBM carefully
“After studying the company’s history and 
potential growth,” says George, “I realized 
that finance is one of the best routes to 
management at IBM.
“Then I found that information processing 
is one of this country’s fastest growing major 
industries. To me, that says exciting work and 
great opportunities for my own growth.”
IBM offers attractive opportunities for MBA’s 
in such areas as Financial Analysis, Account­
ing, Internal Auditing, Financial Planning and 
Control, and Information Systems. In addition, 
IBM needs qualified MBA’s for careers in 
marketing and engineering.
An Equal Opportunity Employer
Visit your placement office
Sign up at your place- ^ ^
ment office for an inter- ON 
view with IBM. Or send 
a letter or resume to 
Irv Pfeiffer, IBM, NOV.
Dept. C, 100 South 
Wacker Drive, Chicago,
Illinois 60606.
CAMPUS
NOV.
11,12

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10—THE TARTAN—Wednesday, November 6, 1968
‘Scotch ’n Soda’: A Radical Change
by Larry Clark
Those who attended Scotch’n’ 
Sera’s tfall presentation, “For 
Heaven’s Sake,” had a different 
kind of treat. The Hele^i Kromer 
revue was actually a series of 
blackouts. This is a radical 
change from such past Scotch’n’ 
Soda productions as “Voltaire and 
the Witches” and “That is the 
Question.” “For Heaven’s Sake” 
attempted to establish a direct 
contact between the actor and 
audience. The play was memor­
able of the Spoon River Anthol­
ogy in its lack of costuming and 
props. For those who accepted 
this format, “For Heaven’s Sake” 
was a thoroughly enjoyable ex- 
J*erienc-e.
Director Don Maloney did a 
masterful job of shaping his cast. 
He drew out the best efforts of 
each actor. This was evident in 
such numbers as “Gimme God 
Blues” and the finale, “For Heav­
ens Sake.” In the “Gimme God 
Blues,” Carole Kalinski delivered 
a powerful interpretation of the 
Lucky Lady while her support­
ing actors held was museum pos­
es.
James Brezovec’s outstanding 
narration provided a needed con­
tinuity between the various
scenes. His portrayal of the crou­
pier in “Gimme God Blues” 
showed a fine sense of timing 
and poise. James enhanced some 
of the best lines of the play with 
his delivery.
All performances in the Death 
House were good, but Phyllis Ros- 
enfield deserves special note for 
her chilling Girl-in-Ice. “Squeez­
ing up, and freezing up,” Phyl­
lis was a tribute to virginity in 
her lily white pureness.
Jack Ribholz’s singing of “Sev­
en Steeples” was magnificent. 
This feat is remarkable when you 
consider that he did not begin 
practicing until two weeks before 
the performance. (Ed Fredian, 
Renzo Venturo and Buz Walker 
shared this handicap with Jack, 
although there was certainly no 
evidence of this.) Because of 
Jack, “Seven Steeples” could eas­
ily be called the most beautiful 
scene of the play, save perhaps 
“Aim for Heaven.” This number 
blended the captivating dance. 
The dance, as well as other dance 
numbers in the show, was ar­
ranged by Carol-Rae. It was a 
perfect complement to Corine’s 
song and added a visual dimen­
sion to its message.
Bernie Yannotta displayed a 
high degree of versatility in his
various roles. From the success­
ful businessman in “Some Ca­
reer” to the introspective young 
man in “I’m Nothing, I’m No­
body, No One,” Bernie displayed 
his roles independently and dis­
tinctly.
Some of the best received lines 
of the show were delivered by 
Frank Korbett during his affair 
with Jenifer Digby in “Love in 
Bloom.” This was certainly not 
undeserved, but it is unfortunate 
that this humor detracted from 
Jenifer’s soliloquy. Both Jenifer 
and Frank accomplished the diffi­
cult task of using the Bard’s Eng­
lish to convey the trials and trib­
ulations of modern men and wom­
en.
As in any stage production, 
were many people behind the 
scenes of “For Heaven’s Sake” 
who contributed greatly to its 
success. Technical director Lee 
Bonamy and the entire produc­
tion staff are to be congratulated 
for the work they did with the 
limited facilities of the Skibo 
ballroom. Jeff Boyd’s graphics 
and publicity works are also 
worthy of note. He designed and 
personally posted the four hun­
dred posters which blanketed the 
campus.
The success of “For Heaven’s 
Sake” was the result of the coop­
erative efforts of many people. 
It is a production that Scotch’n’ 
Soda can be proud of.
would you like to
McCloy Presents 
[’airless Lectures
John J. McCloy, former assist­
ant secretary of war and U.S. 
military governor and high com­
missioner for Germany, will pre­
sent this year’s Benjamin F. Fair- 
less Memorial Lectures at Car­
negie - Mellon University, Pitts­
burgh. The lectures will be held 
Thursdays, November 7, 14, and 
21, 5:30 P.M. in the Ballroom.
As his topic, Mr. McCloy has 
chosen “The Atlantic Alliance: 
Its Origin and Its Future.”
Looking at the past, present, 
and future of the Atlantic Alli­
ance and NATO, Mr. McCloy’s 
talks will focus on: 1) the basis 
for the creation of the Alliance 
and NATO; 2) their present va­
lidity from a military, economic, 
and political stand-point in the 
light of changed world conditions; 
and 3) the role they might play 
in the future.
Mr. McCloy will devote consid­
erable attention to the import­
ance of economic relations be­
tween the United States and Eur- 
rope in the coming decade and 
the military aspects of the Alli­
ance.
The lecture series, established 
to commemorate Benjamin F. 
Fairless, former president and 
board chairman of U.S. Steel 
Corporation, brings annually to 
the C-MU campus an outstanding 
authority from business, govern­
ment, or education to speak on 
a topical subject in his field.
Hey, that’s our job! . . . and unless 
somebody is trying to tell us some­
thing, we don’t think we’re doing too 
badly.
Sure, Sun Oil Company needs a 
lot more people—in Exploration, Pro­
duction, Manufacturing, Research, 
Engineering, Sales, Accounting, Eco­
nomics and Computer Operations. 
But there are unusual attractions. 
Resides excellent pay, generous stock 
plan, and especially good and econom­
ical living conditions in the Phila­
delphia, Toledo and Dallas areas, 
Sunoco is an exciting company to 
work for.
This is the company that is pio­
neering with Great Canadian Oil 
Sands Ltd. the famed Athabasca oil 
sands project in Northern Alberta— 
a $235 million project that can multi­
ply the world’s petroleum resources. 
Also — that sponsors “Sunoco Spe­
cials” and the Penske/Donohue team 
in major auto racing championships 
to competition-prove and develop 
Sunoco products for the public; that 
is planning a new $125 million proc­
essing facility in Puerto Rico; ex­
panded its Toledo Refinery to the tune 
of $50 million; pursues a continuing 
program for air and water pollution
control; beautifies Sunoco service 
stations throughout the land; and 
recently broke through the billion 
dollar a year barrier in sales! Sound 
interesting? Sun is geared for 
growth. Perhaps we could use you.
Write us for an appointment, write 
for our book “Sunoco Career Oppor­
tunities Guide,” or contact your Col­
lege Placement Director to see Sun’s 
representative when on campus. ByS 
UAN JCOInSFr Industrial Relations 
Dept PT 1608 Walnut Street, Phila­
delphia, Pa. 19103.
cy FmOU1 g..BICOyiCt Ff.1BtNI sHJ
recruit top grads for 
top jobs with a 
top company?
INGMAR
For men who want to be where the
actibn is. Very schussy. Very mas­
culine. ALL-PURPOSE LOTION. 
I $2.51. $4.00. $6 50. From the com- 
j plete array of ENGLISH LEATHER 
1 men's toiletries.
Will be on Campus 
Tuesday, November 19
English £eathccs

---------------------------------------------------

TEAR ALONG DOTTED LINE
A primary function of the University is to meet the needs of its students, preparing themselves 
tor tne world outside of the campus. Sometimes tms involves changes in policies and attitudes, but 
the University is supposed to be working witn tne ultimate good of its students in mind.
Students of Fine Arts, Department of Painting and Sculpture, have petitioned the University for 
changes which they feel will give them greater responsibility for their work and an increased incen­
tive.
The first point of consideration is an alteration of the present grading system. The students are 
requesting the initiation of a pass-fail system for all departmental courses. Many educators realize 
that letter grades and point averages may not be the best manner of measuring academic success, but 
rather a distortion of the reasons for the process of education. The achievement of a high QPA and 
the production of good work are not always the same thing, and the present use of a letter grading sys 
tern is felt to put an improper emphasis on the former. It is also seen to increase the subjectivity of 
the grading process. The students who have signed the petitions question the value of letter grades. 
The pass-fail system would alleviate this situation to some extent.
A variety of experimental grading systems are now being used in colleges and universities across 
the country. The pass-fail system is, at present, successfully in use in the Drama Department at 
Carnegie-Mellon. Realizing that this is a major consideration, the students of the Department of 
Painting and Sculpture would like to meet with their faculty and administration to discuss all aspects 
of this issue. The desire for change will not be erased by ignoring it.
The second point of consideration concerns the physical facilities of the Fine Arts department. 
Students often find that their rigorous class schedules and assignments require that^they work late 
into the night. At present it is not possible for them to stay in the building until their work is done. 
Surely the University believes that a college student is mature enough to know his own limitations, 
to know how late he can work at night and still be able to function in class the next day. The students 
realize that there are certain problems and conditions that must be considered in requesting that the 
Fine Arts building be open to them all night. They are willing'to accept the responsibility of insuring 
proper conduct and use ot the school's facilities. A method of checking student ID's could provide a 
security check in the building.
These are not unreasonable requests. They are questions that require thought and discussion, and the students will be heard.
Tear out this page and send it to Dean Rice. If you don't like what it says, add comments or 
your own letter. Free, pre-addressed envelopes will be availaole at Skibo, Wednesday from 
10:30 P. M. and Thursday 9:30 A. M. to 10:30 P. M.
Note: Campus mail is free.
Wednesday, November 6, 196Ä-THE TARTAN—Page 11
ARTICLE OF PROTEST
iV X® &
\
PAID POLITICAL ANNOUNCEMENT

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12—THE TARTAN—Wednesday, November 6, 1968Johns Hopkins Outscores Tartans, 53-38
Tartan quarterback Rich Squires straight-arms a Johns Hopkins play­
er while running for a short gain.
ran a deep pattern and took 
Squires’ pass 66 yards for the 
score, cutting the Blue Jays’ 
lead to 41-32.
SQUIRES SETS TWO TECH RECORDS 
CMU COMEBACK ATTEMPT FALLS SHORT
By LARRY BREAN
CMU dropped an unbelievable 53-38 decision in a wide open offensive battle Saturday. 
Rich Squires passed for a record 402 yards and five touchdowns, and almost pulled out a victory 
for the Tartans in the final quarter. Johns Hopkins’ margin of victory developed in the first 
half as the Blue Jays led 27-12. Carnegie rallied and cut the visitors’ lead to 33-26 early in 
the fourth quarter, but interceptions and hard running by Johns Hopkins’ backs Joe Cowan and 
Paul Weiss provided the spark and the Blue Jays from Baltimore recovered for the victory.
After the opening kickoff, Johns 
Hopkins marched 63 yards on 
six plays for a 6-0 lead. Weiss’
44-yard run was the key play. He 
scored the six points on a one yard 
plunge.
Late in the opening quarter, the 
Tartans’ defense halted John Hop­
kins on the CMU 17, and CMU 
tied the score in 11 plays. On 
a crucial third and six situation 
from the 47, Squires flipped a 
screen pass to Tom Lombardo, 
who rambled 32 yards down the 
sidelines to the 21. Ken Bator- 
ski capped the 83-yard drive as 
he grabbed a 20-yard pass for the 
score.
But Johns Hopkins struck back 
quickly, scoring two touchdowns 
within five minutes. Cowan tal­
lied on a screen pass from Feely 
which developed into a 47-yard 
gain on the second play follow­
ing CMU’s kickoff. Stalker and 
Horn then stopped Cowan on a two 
point conversion attempt. Lotto’s 
interception for the Blue Jays set 
up an eight-yard TD pass to Mark 
Croft, and Feely’s pass to Dono­
van was good for the two-point 
conversion and a 20-6 lead.
Tosses to Tony Bugel and Joe 
Chemay led a drive that was 
stalled on the 10. But Carnegie’s 
defense halted Johns Hopkins and 
CMU regained possession on their 
own 37. A 35-yard screen to Ba- 
torski highlighted the Tartans’ 
five plays, 63-yard drive. Roll­
ing to his left. Squires hit Bator- 
ski who drove in for the score.
Johns Hopkins increased their 
lead to 27-12 on six succes­
sive passes on a 75-yard march.
The six-pointer was scored on a 
pass from Feely to Croft.
The Tartans tried to score be­
fore half-time as passes to Bu­
gel, Tepsic, and Batorski put the 
ball on the visitors’ 36-yard line 
with one minute remaining. Joe 
Chemay made the catch of the day 
on the next play as he leaped be­
tween two defenders and grab­
bed Squires’ high, looping pass 
on the 10. However, on the next 
play, tackle Ken Brown picked 
off a screen pass intended for Bu­
gel and the Tartans entered the 
dressing room trailing 27-12.
Early in the third quarter,
Weiss scored on a six-yard run to 
put the visitors ahead 33-12.
Johns Hopkins was in scoring 
range five minutes later with a 
third and goal from the four.
A touchdown would have put the 
game out of reach, but one play 
gave the Tartans new life.
Joe Chemay intercepted Feely’s 
pass on the goal line and roared 
100 yards for a touchdown.
This electrifying return changed 
the complexion of the contest as 
the deficit was cut to 33-18.
CMU’s defense, obviously in­
spired by the play, held Johns 
Hopkins on downs, when Getto,
Stalker, and Meilhan stopped three 
running plays. The offense took 
over JC their own 41 and moved in 
JC 10 plays — the payoff coming 
“cUC Squires spotted Chemay 
ahead J1 his defender and hit Joe 
for dcU score. A two-point pass 
dJ Bugel narrowed the margin to 
OUSUC points.
GcU d“J dUyNO dcUC day.U. dJi,c.J“COI uJ“yC O,yN3UaU.
-? oya.O 1Ja the GB yC. TUUwo 
ayC 1Ja d“J 3JFCdOI MC uv(xO 1FaOd 
3wyo 1JwwJ“FCt dcU ­F,­J11m litUw
28Thiel42
28Oberlin28
6Grove City10
48Allegheny18
7F&M6
38Johns Hopkins 
Nov. 9 Adelbert 
Nov. 16 at W & J
53
Carnegie was on the move again 
following Batorski’s 39-yard punt 
return to the Johns Hopkins 43. 
Runs by Lombardo and passes to 
Batorski and Bugel picked up a 
first down on the nine, but Co­
ker intercepted Squires’ pass in
the endzone and ran it out to the 
18. On the first play from scrim­
mage, Cowan broke through the 
defensive line and raced 82 yards 
to give his team a 47-32 ad­
vantage.
Johns Hopkins put the game out 
of reach as another interception 
set up Hata’s TD run. The Tar­
tans put the final score on the 
board as they marched 55 yards 
on four passes, with a 9-yard aer­
ial to Bugel climaxing the drive. 
Time ran out and CMU lost 53- 
38.
This Saturday marks the final 
home appearances of six seniors 
on the CMU team, as the Tartans 
battle Adelbert on Tech Field. 
Game time is 1:30 p.m.
PUaUxO g2iFaUO ytyFCI PU cy. taUyd 3aJdU,dFJC JC dcFO 3wyo “cUC cU 
,JCCU,dU. JC JCU J1 cFO ?> ,JN3wUdFJCOI bF,c dcaU“ 1FSU O,JaFCt 3yOOH
UO hid cy. OUSUC 3F,­U. J11 “cFwU ONyOcFCt d“J GyadyC 3yOOFCt aU,Ja.OI
C-MU vs. ADELBERT 
SATURDAY 1:30 P. M. 
TECH BOWL 
LAST HOME GAME FOR TARTANS
On The Sports Scene
Two Interceptions
”;W
by es skGLGm GyadyC g3JadO k.FdJa
The score was 33-12 in favor of Johns Hopkins. The Blue Jays 
had the ball on the CMU four yard line and seemed eager to finish off 
the Tartans with one more big touchdown. Then the Blue Jays quarter­
back rifled a pass into the end zone, but Joe Chernay intercepted on the 
goal line. Chernay raced down the sidelines, eluded a few Johns Hop­
kins players, and sprinted into the endzone for a spectacular 100 yard 
return. Now, instead of trailing by 28 points, CMU was back in the ball 
game and fired up. Rich Squires began to connect more often and direct­
ed drives of 59 and 66 yards for Tartan scores to cut the Blue Jays’ 
lead to seven points.
The Tartans had the momentum and were set to strike again as they 
held Johns Hopkins’ offense, then moved the ball themselves to the vis­
itors’ nine-yard line. However, Coker picked off a Squires pass intend­
ed for Bugel to kill this major Tartan drive. When Cowan raced 82 yards 
for a Johns Hopkins touchdown, the game was virtually over since the 
Blue Jays regained their impetus. They went onto defeat CMU 53-38.
Rich Squires completed 25 of 51 passes for 402 yards and five 
touchdowns. He established CMU passing marks for attempts and yard­
age for one game, surpassing records set by Tom Hubka in 1965 and
1966. The strong Johns Hopkins pass rush broke through the usual­
ly dependable CMU line to chase Squires out of the pocket on numer­
ous occasions. Rich was able to escape the rush and pick up some ad­
ditional yardage too. Squires also connected with Tony Bugel on a 66 
yard scoring play. Bugel had his man beat and caught the perfect spiral 
in stride on his way to the end zone. Joe Chernay played another “aver­
age” game. Besides running back his intercaption the length of the 
field for a touchdown, he caught a touchdown pass and made a great 
grab of a lofted pass while sandwiched between two Blue Jays defend­
ers. Ken Batorski picked up 66 yards in 13 carries in addition to six 
receptions for 110 yards and two touchdowns. Tony Bugel had a big day, 
catching eight passes which covered 153 yards.
As usual, Larry Getto had a few interesting encounters with the of­
ficials during the game. After stopping an end run by grabbing a Blue 
Jay’s helmet and knocking-him down, Getto thought that that the ref 
might call a personal foul (for grabbing the face mask) hence he sud­
denly assumed an angelic expression and clasped his hands behind his 
back to illustrate his innocence. No penalty was called. In another sit­
uation, an official penalized a CMU back for pass interference. On the 
subsequent play, .Johns Hopkins scored a touchdown. As Getto came off 
the field he politely asked the ref which Tartan committed the foul. 
While the official tried to evade the question, an&ther came to his aid 
and said that it was number 53. Larry replied, “We don’t have a 53” 
(playing defensive back) and quickly departed.
On one important CMU drive near the end of the third quarter 
(following Chernay’s great catch), the Tartans tried the screen to Bu­
gel, a play which has been very successful in previous games. However, 
the Johns Hopkins linemen held their ground instead of putting on the 
expected pass rush. This enabled Brown, the Blue Jay’s defensive 
tackle, to reach up and snare Squires’ pass and stop another CMU threat. 
Scfeen passes directed outside were picking up substantial yardage 
for both teams, however.
Johns Hopkins ran a large number of plays from a formation with 
the ends split wide and the backs lined up in an “I.” They also shift­
ed into different formations before running from scrimmage and be­
fore punting. In the second quarter, the Blue Jays shifted into punt for­
mation on the fourth down but Joe Cowan (their wingback who gained 
166 yards in 12 carries) faked the kick and took off downfield. The 
CMU bench had a premonition of this maneuver and were yelling from 
the sidelines before the play began. Batorski alertly stopped Cowan 
short of the first down.
Penalties were costly to Johns Hopkins during the second quarter 
and almost helped the Tartans pull out the victory. In one instance, 
a 28 yard play by Johns Hopkins, which moved the ball to the one 
yard line, was nullified by a holding penalty. This infraction pushed the 
Blue Jays back to the 35. The other time, Paul Weiss (the Johns Hopkins 
ydUCNJCAOI UC kv.O 13)
FOOTBALL STATISTICS
J. Hopkins 6 21 6 20-53 
Car.-Mellon 0 12 6 20-38
CMUJOHNS HOPKINS
30First downs25
145Rushing yardage389
402Passing yardage227
51-25-7Passes33-17-1
3-29Punts4-29
1Fumbles lost0
45Yards penalized81
JH-Weiss, 1, run (kick failed) 6-0 
CMU-Batorski, 20, pass from 
Squires 6-6
JH-Weiss, 40, pass from Feely 
(run failed) 12-6
JH-Croft, 19, pass from Feely 
(Donovan, pass from 
Feely) 20-6
CMU-Batorski, 15, pass 
from Squires (run failed) 20-12 
JH-Croft, 14, pass from 
Feely (Moore kick) 27-12
JH-Weiss, 6, run (kick 
blocked) 33-12
CMU-Chemay, 100, pass 
interception (run failed) 33-18 
CMU-Chernay, 11, pass from 
Squires (Bugel, pass from 
Squires 33-26
JH-Cowan, 42, run (Feely 
run) 41-26
CMU-Bugel, 66, pass from 
Squires (pass failed) 41-32
JH-Cowan, 81, run 
(run failed) 47-32
JH-Hata,2, run (passfailed» 53-32 
CMU-Bugel, 9, pass from 
Squires (run failed) 53-38

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, November 6, 1968-THE TARTAN-Page 13
IM REVIEWSoccer Team Sinks Pitt, 7-2
Season Finale at Slippery Rock Saturday
Tau Delt quarterback Latarus sets to throw past '»nrushing grads. 
The old men defeated TDP 12-9 in first round pla\otf amon.
More Tartan Sports 
NostalgiaHarriersTopSt. Francis 
End Season at 6-3
November 1965
Tech’s 24 meet unbeaten string 
in cross country ended with con­
secutive losses to Wavnesburg and 
Westminster. Nearly one thous­
and spectators showed up for the 
historic Waynesburg meet along 
with the Waynesburg band, fac­
ulty members and the president 
of their college.
January 1966
Sixty fouls were committed in 
a CIT basketball game vs. Grove 
City. Eight players fouled out on 
each team (four per team) and 
the last minute of playing time 
took 15 minutes to complete be­
cause of the necessary substitu­
tions and foul shots. Bv the way, 
the Tartans won 93-84.
February 1966
Head football coach Joe Gas- 
parella's assistant Rich McCabe 
signed with the Buffalo Bills of 
the AFL as a defensive coach.
The Steffen fund supplied schol­
arships to Tech athletes, (if they 
maintained tyir grades), until 
1962. Some of our rival schools 
in inter varsity sports events re­
fused to play against a school 
receiving ‘‘open aid" for athletes 
therefore Tch discontinued this 
aid.
Did You Know?
Carnegie Tech's football team 
played its home football games in 
good ol’ Forbes Field up to the 
1961 season when they trans­
ferred headquartdrs to the new 
Tech Bowl.
The CMU cross country team 
finished their season with a 19-
43 victory over the runners from 
St. Vincent. Until Monday’s prac­
tice, the team thought this final 
meet was on Friday, but a last 
minute change by St. Vincent 
caused the meet to be held on 
Wednesday. The SV course was 
somewhat unusual with ha of 
it on narrow paths and slippery 
hills and the otyr half onq 
ed road. In spite of these minor 
irregularities the Tartans ran the 
4.5 mile course well and finished 
the season qith their sixth vic­
tory.
Bernie Flynn won his last race 
as a CMU harrier and did it in fine
style by running a fast time and 
beating an excellent St. Vincent 
runner on his home course. The 
rest of the team followed Bernies 
example and nine Tartans finish­
ed before the third Bearcat run­
ner.4.5 miles Cool camp weather
sinner CMU19 Loser St.V. 43
FlvnnCM25:37
KadlubekSV26:05
BaerCM26:18
ManonCM28
HawkinsCM32
ElyCM27:22
BullersCM24
BackSV48
AndersonCM28:10
LorhanCM35
DavidsonCM45
ON THE SPORTS SCENE (Continued from Page 12)
fullback who gained 186 yards on the ground i broke loose and display­
ed some great open field running. He was brought down at the five yard 
line, but a clipping penalty — which occurs often on a multi-cutback 
run — returned the ball to the 40.
Johns Hopkins’ record is now 4-2. They have scored 179 points 
while yielding 141. Joe Cowan, their leading receiver as well as a top 
notch runner, leads the team in scoring with 55 points. The Blue Javs 
scored in the first half on well executed drives which were established 
by their rugged running attack. Jim Feely. their 5'8”, 158 pound south­
paw quarterback has hit on 60 of 115 aerials this season for 10 
touchdowns.
Between 1952 and 1956 CIT defeated Johns Hopkins in five con­
secutive games . . . Ken Batorski gained 431 yards in 90 attempts and 
Tom Lombardo 300 yards on 73 carries. Joe Chernay has hauled in 
25 passes for 402 yards . . . With two games to go and a 2-3-1 rec­
ord, the Tartans can still better last season s 4-4 slate with victories 
over Adelbert and W & J. This Saturday’s contest against Adelbert 
College (a male subsidiary of the Case-Western Reserve merger) is 
the final home game of the season. Game time, as usual, is 1:30 p.m. 
Adelbert dropped a 40-0 decision to Thiel on Saturday.
The Betas are on the move in playoff contest against Sigma Nu. BTP 
won handily, 54-22.
IM Review 
Touch Football
Division Leaders:
Fackers LeagueWL
BTP“A”50
PKA41
Browns LeagueWL
ATO‘‘A’’50
TDP“A”41
Colts LeagueWL
Old Men60
E.J. “Thorny”51
Cowboys LeagueWL
SAE “Purple'60
SN “A”51
SAE “Purple”downed SN*A'
by the score of 13-8. The battle 
for first place was decided by the 
Ferrell to Malizia Combination. 
They clicked for two touchdowns 
which was all a stout SAE defense 
needed to burn back SN and win 
the top spot in the league.
two TD passes to Glesner and one 
to Davis.
The fast offense of the Old Men 
overpowered TDP 42-9. Working 
from a spread formation, QB 
Bob Blattburg had a fine day 
either running or passing to Lowe 
and Wilhelmi. The game also fea­
tured a battle between the Old 
Men’s Bill Patula and Bob Bal- 
kovec, Tau Delt’s blocking back. 
Roy Glaser did a fine job rushing 
for TDP, often corralling Blatt­
burg for losses. Using double 
passes, the Old Men capitalized 
on crucial third down plays all 
day. Tau Delt’s touchdown came 
on a third-quarter pass from La­
zarus to Ken Siger.
CO-Rec. Volleyball
Set League:
PKT-Purple 
DTD 
SN-D 
BTP-C 
SAE-C 
Algorithms
Playoff Results
First Round
ATO downed EJ Thorney 34-10. 
ATO struck first as Steve Jacks 
returned the opening kick off for 
a touchdown. Malley, although 
bothered by a strong rush by Haan 
and Morisani, passed to Jacks for 
another score several minutes 
later. The EJ's retaliated with a 
bomb from Nadeau to Green, but 
Malley hit Jacks again and ATO 
led 19-8 at the half. In the second 
half. Malley ran for a TD and hit 
Weiss for another while the ATO 
defense held the EJ's to two points.
BTP defeated 54-22. SN man­
aged to keep the game close in 
the first half < 30-200 on passes 
from Ecoff to Dolbow. Gillette, 
and Brown, but Beta outscored SN 
24-2 in the second half. BTP re­
ceived excellent blocking as re­
flected in quarterback Hans Car­
ter's four TD runs. He also threw
Serve League:
SAE-Purple
ATO-B
SAE-F
SN-B
KS
TDP-A
Spike League:
ATO-A 
SAE Gold 
SAE-E 
BTP-B
SN-C
PKT Gold
Pass League
SN-A
BTP-A
DU-J
SAE-D
Mudge
ATO-C
The C-MU booters scored their 
fifth victory of seven decisions 
by defeating Pitt-Johnstown 7-2 
on Saturday. A tough defense 
blocked all scoring attempts by 
Pitt and enabled the Tech for­
ward line to monopolize the shots 
on goal.
Early in the first quarter, 
Bader Wahedi scored as he cross­
ed the ball in from the right cor­
ner Within minutes C-MU again 
moved the ball downfield and 
George Bedo drilled a shot past 
the Pitt goalie leaving the score
2-0 at the half. Before three min­
utes had passed in the third quar­
ter, Palme centered the ball and 
Luis Rosanes headed it into the 
net. Before Pitt could retalliate, 
Marcell Weiner dribbled past 
the defense to score the fourth 
C-MU goal. Pitt rallied as Ander­
son scored on a penalty kick but 
C-MU fought back. Wahedi pass­
ed in to Henrik Palme, and Palme
scored. In the fourth quarter a 
shot by Rosanes was deflected 
into the goal by a Pitt defender, 
making the score 6-1. On an in­
direct penalty kick from the 10 
meter line, Pitt scored their sec­
ond goal. The final scoring of the 
game came as Carlo Herrmann 
gunned a shot from 15 yards out, 
raising the C-MU total to seven.
The present record of five wins, 
two losses is evidence that the 
soccer team had become a strong, 
well-coordinated unit. The de­
fense led by Jake Eisenham, has 
not allowed the opponents to form 
any offensive threat during the 
last two games. Jacques Borise- 
witz, the C-MU goalie, has played 
a number of outstanding games. 
His speed and agility have robbed 
many opponents of goals and 
have kept C-MU on top. The three 
fullbacks, Eisenman, Dave Vin- 
ish. and Ron Letzler form a tough 
defensive wall, and the two fast
halfbacks, Mike Sugarman and 
Phil Meyer move the ball upfield 
quickly. In the last three of four 
games, the only goals against 
C-MU have been on penalty kicks, 
since the opponents could not pen­
etrate this strong defense. The of­
fense, working around Henrik 
Palme and Luis Rosanes is fast 
and potent. Palme remains the 
leading scorer with his six goals.
The last game of the season 
is this Friday, beginning at 3:00, 
at Slippery Rock College.
G—Borisewitz 
RF—Vinish 
LF—Letzler, Hart 
CF—Eisenman 
LH—Meyer
RH—Sugarman, Herrman
CH—Palme, Cheng
LO—Weiner, M., Weiner. S., Close
LI—Kern. Bedo, Lee 
RI—Wahedi, Escott 
RO—Rosanes, Haye
The CMU soccer team and Coach Joseph Kruth have a good reasoi- to be smiling. After beating Pitt (Johns­
town Campus), they now sport a 5-2 record.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14—THE TARTAN—Wednesday, November 6. 1968
RECRUITING SCHEDULE
Monday, November 11,1968
Allied Chemical Company 
American Oil
Manufacturing Department 
Bethlehem Steel 
Cooperative College Registry 
General Aniline & Film Corporation 
Fort Worth Division 
I.B.M. Corporation 
Monsanto
Tuesday, November 12,1968
Esso Research & Engineering 
General Telephone & Electronics 
I.B.M. Corporation 
Ingersoll-Rand Corporation 
McDonnell Douglas Corporation 
Monsanto
Schlumberger Research 
Naval Research Laboratory
Wednesday, November 13,1968
Continental Oil Corporation Computer Department 
Consolidation Coal Company 
Esso Research & Engineering 
Firestone Tire & Rubber Company 
Central Research Lab.
General Eelectric Company 
Hoppers Company
Thursday, November 14,1968
Burroughs
General Electric Company
General Mills
Hewlett-Packard
National Cash Register Company
Charles Pfizer & Company
Pfizer International
United States Steel Corporation
Friday, November 15,1968
American Cyanamid Corporation 
Borden, Inc.
Continental Can Company
General Mills
Lubrizol
United Aircraft Corporation 
Hamilton-Standard Division 
Westinghouse Electric
Monday, November 18, 1968
Booz, Allen & Hamilton E. F. Hutton Company 
McKinsey & Co.
R.C.A. Labs 
Naval Weapons Lab.
Wolf Research & Development
Tuesday, Novmber 19,1968
Armour & Company 
Booz, Allen & Hamilton 
E. I. DuPont de Nemours & Company 
Fairchild Camera & Instrument General Dynamics 
Electric Boat & Quincy Divisions Hughes Aircraft 
Price Waterhouse 
Sun Oil Company TRW, Inc.
Systems Group 
U. S. Army Material Command
Wednesday, November 20,1968
Defense Communications Agency
E. I. DuPont deNemours & Company
Equitable Life Assurance Soc. of the U. S.
Firestone Tire & Rubber
Hooker Chemical Company
Minnesota Mining & Manufacturing Co.
Owens-Illinois
Texas Instruments
Arthur Young & Compny, Inc.
Thursday, November 21,1968
Air Products & Chemicals
Battelle Memorial Institute
E. I. DuPont de Nemours & CompanyW. R. Grace
SKF Industries
Shell Companies
TRW, Inc.
Texas Instruments 
Office of the Chief of Staff
Friday, November 22,1968
Burlington Industries 
W. R. Grace 
Honeywell, Inc.
Industrial Nucleonics 
International Nickel Company 
R. Shriver Associates 
Sperry Gyroscope 
W. Va. State Road Coir;fission
