The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 36 No. 26CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, APRIL 6, 1943
‘Fashion’ Marks 
End of Season
The Drama Department will pre­
sent “Fashion,” this Saturday, April 
10, as their last production of the 
Spring semester. A musical adapta­
tion of a century-old social satire, 
“Fashion” will run for ten perform­
ances, including a Friday matinee.
Written by Anna Cora Mo watt in 
1845, “Fashion” is a social parody 
on the American newly-rich. The 
original production was enthusi­
astically received by the theatrical 
world of that period, and has since 
been revived numerous times. Ed­
gar Allen Poe, then a dramatic critic 
on a New York newspaper, describ­
ed it as a naturalistic and complete­
ly true-to-life picturization. Miss 
Morris, Drama School director, 
played the leading role, that of Ger­
trude the daughter, in the revised 
version produced by the New York 
Provincetown Theatre in 1924.
Except for the addition of several 
musical numbers, the Drama School 
production is an exact adaption of 
the Provincetown Theatre version. 
Among the period Songs of the mid­
dle nineteenth ceiitury that have 
been added are “Call Me Pet 
Names, Dearest,” “Why Did They 
Dig Ma’s Grave So Deep,” and “Not 
For Joe,” which will be rendered 
by Joe Dolin.
All musical numbers will be ar­
ranged and coached by Milton Le­
vine, a Carnegie music student. 
Mike Sivy and Bill Myers will play 
the role of Colonel Howard, an Eng­
lish dignitary. Eddie Edmonds and 
A1 Checco will play Mr. Tiffany, 
while Elsie Cox, Jenny Lou Law, 
and Marianne Brown portray Mrs. 
Tiffony, lady of this nouveau-riche 
family. Gertrude, the daughter, 
will be portrayed by Alice Morgan, 
Jean Layton, and Joan Nelson. Joe 
Dolin and Ernie Motyl will be fea­
tured in the role of Snobson, “Fash­
ion’s” most extensive comedy role.
Outmoded drop-curtains and side 
wings will be used to maintain the 
atmosphere of the original nine­
teenth century production.
M. M. C. C. Petitions 
Due Thursday By 4:30
Elections for Margaret Morrison 
class officers will be held on Tues­
day, April 13, in the front hall of 
Margaret Morrison. Officers who 
will be elected will include Presi­
dent, Vice - President, Secretary, 
Treasure, and Senate Representa­
tives. The President and Vice-Pres­
ident of Margaret Morrison Senate 
will also be elected on this day.
Any Margaret Morrison girl who 
wants to run for an office can do so 
by getting a petition from the Stu­
dent Council office. Petitions of 
those running for a class office must 
be signed by 10 members of each 
class, and petitions for a school of­
fice must be signed by 15 members 
of the school. These petitions must 
be returned to the Student Council 
office by 4;$0, Thursday, April 8.
8-Week Courses Given 
To Navy Reservists; 
Full Credit Awarded
As an extra service for those stu­
dents who are members of the Navy 
or the Marine Corps reserves the 
College of Engineering will offer 
special eight-weeks courses in 
Mathemactis, Physics, Mechanics, 
and Chemistry.
Classes in the special courses will 
start May 3 and will end on June 
26. The Navy and Marine Reservists 
are to be called to active duty about 
July 1. It will be possible for a stu­
dent to complete an entire semes­
ter’s work in any of the subjects 
designated while awaiting his call 
to active duty.
Full academic credit will be given 
for the special courses, but no stu­
dent may carry more than two sub­
jects.
In Mathematics, C-2, C-3, and C-4 
will be offered; in Physics, E-81 and 
E-82; in Mechaincs, E-20, E-21, and 
E-22; in Chemistry, E-102.
The fees will be $3.60 per unit.
The courses will be offered if a 
sufficient number of students are 
interested in regitsering for them. 
Those students who wish to avail 
themselves of this opportunity are 
requested to report immediately to 
Professor Work, Assistant Director 
of the College of Engineering, to 
post their names and the subjects 
they desire to take.
Carnival Begins Friday Nite; 
Promises Two Days of Delight
0&!u(fee at *7eclt
Yankee “Slanguage” 
Gave Him Troubles
Getting interviews are always in­
teresting assignments because they 
offer a reporter opportunities to 
meet different types of people. Last 
week for my assignment I inter­
viewed a Carnegie Tech student 
named Alexander Scheirman, and 
it was really a thrilling experience 
to speak to a boy, who when he 
came to this country three years ago 
knew, as he put it, “about a baker’s 
dozen English words.”
Alexander arrived in the United 
States in December, 1939, after leav­
ing his home in Germany. Since he 
knew almost no English at all, he 
was not able to attend high school 
immediately at Warren, Ohio, 
where his new home was located. 
However,.a year later when he did 
attend high school he had a few 
amusing experiences due to his lack 
of knowledge of American idioms 
and slang. One of these experiences 
occurred in class when the teacher 
said, “There’s a smart Alec in this 
Continued on page 3
At (A‘0At (A‘ 'live (Icuuje.
Theta Xi’s Become Chief Cooks 
And Bottle Washers In Emergency
For the past two weeks the Theta 
Xi house has kept the hunger wolf 
from the door by “roughing it” with 
real T. X. cooking. Because of an 
illness, the cook, Mrs. Roth, better 
known as “Rosie,” was forced to 
take a furlough from her kitchen. 
The blow was a bitter one! For 
years now these boys have been eat­
ing the best food on campus, some­
times not realizing how forunate 
they were. What were they to do?
True to the T. X. spirit, their 
President, Bert Bassett, P’45, and 
House Manager, Doug Fields, 
Mgt’45, rose valiantly to the occa­
sion. They prepared tasty snacks for 
breakfast and full course menus for 
dinner, and organized the other 
boys to help the maid, Hatty, in 
serving lunches. The Household 
Economics Department might well 
be justified in confering honorary 
degrees on these two “Knights of 
the Kitchen” for the food they pre­
pared, and the organization which 
they established could be compared 
favorably with any in the city.
Only one unfortunate occurrence 
happened in the brief career of “the 
Chefs.” It comes under the heading 
of rice pudding. The morose ex­
pression on Bert’s face when he ap­
peared in the Beanery told the tale. 
“You know,” he told your reporter, 
“on every plate that came back to
the kitchen after dinner, there was 
an untouched portion of rice. It 
made me feel terrible.” The rice was 
just too much for him; in fact it was
too much for all of them. They just 
couldn’t eat it. After an hour’s cook­
ing time he realized it was a losing 
battle. Well, to condense a rather 
short story the boys would have 
preferred eating out that evening; 
however, they destroyed the evi­
dence in true T. X. style.
The table service donated by such 
Continued on page 3
This year’s Spring Carnival be­
gins Friday night with dancing to 
the music of Richard Himber and 
his 16-piece orchestra from 8-12 P. 
M. in the gym. Richard Himber’s or­
chestra has been proclaimed by 
many of the country’s leading popu­
lar music authorities as being the 
only band that solves the battle be­
tween sweet and swing music.
On Saturday afternoon, the form­
al part of Carnival will be held with 
the coronation of the Queen and the 
honorary calls. These ceremonies 
will be held in the Sylvan Theatre 
if the weather permits. Later that 
afternoon, the finals of the annual 
Ping-Pong Tournament will be held. 
Street dancing has been planned but 
this, too, depends on the weather.
Carnival will reach its climax on 
Saturday night with the Mardi Gras 
Costume Ball and the music of 
George Wald, of the Trinon Ball­
room in Chicago fame, at 9:00 P. M. 
As is the custom with this type of 
affair, the Committee is requiring 
that everybody wear costume. Ac­
cording to the Committee, a costume 
means any attire that wouldn’t 
normally be worn to an informal 
dance. Thus, the problem of costume 
isn’t too great.
Dressing rooms will be open in 
the gym for both men and women 
for about a half hour before and 
after the Ball. Signs will be posted 
at the entrance to indicate the loca­
tion of these rooms.
Last week it was announced that 
everyone will be supplied with con­
fetti, streamers and masks. Because 
of the confetti and streamers, it is 
necessary that the No Smoking rule 
be strictly enforced in certain areas 
of the gym. The masks will be worn 
until a time when there will be an 
Continued on page 3
Fire Guts 3rd Floor 
Of ‘Noble’ Scobell Hall
Last Friday night at one-thirty A. 
M. fire broke out in an empty room 
on Scobell’s third floor. The blaze 
started in an empty room which was 
stacked high with old newspapers, 
and ate through the door and into 
the hall. No other rooms were in­
jured, but half of the third floor hall 
and the vacant room were badly 
chared. The damage was estimated 
at one thousand dollars.
A bucket brigade was started by 
a group of the students, and their 
efforts prevented the fire from gain­
ing too much headway until the fire 
department arrived. Gail Litton, 
hall president, was injured when a 
piece of burning plaster fell on his 
arm.
Many of the students were caught 
at bed time, and left the building 
dressed in queer combinations. One 
engineer grabbed his sliderule and 
was half way through his second 
story window when he was told he 
could walk down the stairway.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, APRIL 6, 1943
Zditosii Atoncluusi
It’s later than you think!
You did not realize, young men and women, that you would be called 
upon so soon to lower an oar into the waters of a nation at war. Yesterday 
you read of the World War in your history books—the sinking of the Lusi­
tania, the battle of the Marne. But wars, like other things which you had 
encountered only in books, seemed out of your world.
Now you have learned that a war will not wait. No, nor can you stall 
a war for the year or two necessary to complete your college education. 
Today you saw your brother off for the army; you saw your older sister 
leave her job in a department store for a war job with the government. 
You heard it coming, and you know it is here, but you did not realize it 
would come so soon.
To those who are leaving . . .
Now that your hour has arrived, however, you are not going to gripe. 
You are going to pack away your books and slide rule for a while, but 
you are not going to forget, not for one minute, that this is only temporary. 
The war wouldn’t wait, and consequently you were kept from completing 
your college education. All your life you looked forward to the day when 
you would be graduated from college. You worked for almost two decades 
to climb this far, and when only a rung or two remained on the ladder to 
your first “stepping-off place” your country called. So when you are load­
ing your rifle in a foxhole on some foreign front, when you are charting 
your course in the cabin of a PT boat, when your itching palm rests on the 
bomb lever of a Flying Fortress you will be saying to yourself—
“You’ve got an important job to do, and you’re going to do it well. But 
after our side has won you are going to begin right where you left off.”
You will say this because you realize the importance of a college edu­
cation not only to an individual, but to the country of which he is a small 
but substantive part. The Chinese know the importance of a college educa­
tion. That is why Chinese stud' nts trekked hundreds of miles across rough 
terrain to reestablish their universities in west China. There they set up 
make-shift dormitories and c'-rsrrocms so that they could continue their 
education which is so essential to Chinese resistance as well as to their 
future. The Russians know the importance of a college education. That is 
why today, when they are beinr? strained to their elastic limit in the fiercest 
battle of history, their universities are full as they never were before.
To those who remain on the home front . . .
You students who will remain in school to continue your education 
have, from one point of view, the most trying job of all. It is needless to 
say that you will jokingly be called a draft dodger by your friends, and 
more seriously by your, shall we say, non-friends. Even strangers whom 
you pass on the street will distastefully eye your civilian clothes as you 
seemingly hear them say, “You look young and healthy; why aren’t you 
fighting over there with the others?” And after this occurs regularly you 
may reach the point where you will disdainfully slam down your books 
and answer—
“All right, I will!”
It will be only by mustering your maximum will power that you will 
pick up your books and return to your job here. It will be only by logical 
thinking and not by rationalization that, remembering the Chinese and 
Russian students, you will again realize that you are here to bridge the 
period when education is being seriously hindered by inhumanity.
. . . Letters to the Editor . . .
To the Editor of Tartan:
It was a great pleasure for us to have read the message “Two Chinese 
students studying metallurgy here” on your March 9 issue of TARTAN. 
However, there are a few little things which we would like to bring out: 
While school buildings and other sanctuaries of learning were destroy­
ed by Japanese bombs and artillery fire, Chinese teachers and students 
have shown their indomitable spirit in their mass migration thousands of 
miles from the coast to the interior West. The construction of new school 
buildings after a simple style forged ahead rapidly, though in certain local­
ities primitive cottages and temples had been used as temporary quarters.
It is sort of difficult for us here to realize what is really happening in 
colleges and universities on the other side of the globe, which have been 
subjected to merciless bombing from the air, day and night. After a day’s 
hard work when Mr. A. is just about going to bed, there comes the air raid 
alarm. He is forced to move to air raid shelters, perhaps bringing with 
him a slide rule so as not to fail in tomorrow’s quiz. Reference books in 
the library are always packed in bundles so that they can be easily carried 
into places of safety. In the air raid shelters (not caves!) teachers and stu­
dents frequently take this opportunity to open discussions on various 
phases of life. All except the air raid wardens have to remain there until 
the air raid is over.
The advancement of modern air warfare has merged the battle front 
and the rear into one. Thanks to the remarkable efforts of the AEAF m 
China, the frequency of Japanese bombing has been reduced to a certain 
extent. After almost six years of war against aggresion the civilians in 
China have been toughened so that they now take air raids as events of 
little account. The Chinese are loking forward to prompt and much in­
creased help from United States—the Arsenal of Democracy—so that they 
will be able to launch a general offensive at all fronts against our com­
mon foe—Japan.
Sincerely yours,
L. C. CHANG 
Y. H. CHOU
Carnegie Institute of Technology.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the 
staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not 
to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh, Pa.
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2600 PHONE SCHENLEY 4557
“TNTr,7 NAT.ONAL ADVERT...HO .v After Office Hours Call
National Advertising Service, Inc. Editor-in-chief.............................sc. 9887College Publishers Representative420 madison Ave. new TheCa n. ra Business Manager.......................................BR. 4759
ngitDmh p whl­hii • Los Awcem • S«w s“DFtioth
Fntered a* secon«-ci»ss matter In tHe Pittsburgh Post Office under the Act of March 3, 1*79. .*¦“ Published weekly during school year, except holidays and examination periods.Subscription Price $1.10 per year.
IEditorial Staff Pending *
Editor-in-Chief........................................................................................................M¦ David Neuss
Business Manager ............................................................................................... Wilbur Thomas
Co-Managing Editors..........................................................................Ed Goldstein, Walt Darby
News Editor....................................................................................................................Louisa Saul
Features Editor.....................................................................................................Helena Aronson
Copy Editors..................................................................................... Elaine Levin, Gerry Edelson
Personnel Manager....................................................................................................T. J. Harmany
Staff Photographer............................................................................................................Lew Klein
Circulation Manager........................................................................................Chester Feinberg
Business Staff...................................Martha Wagman, Lee Greenwald, Lawrence Schutzer
Sports Staff. .John Lindberg (Editor), Ashe Etkes, Bill Beamer, Stu Lee, Bill Ferguson 
Reporters: Natalie Nathan, Lucille Schulberg, Geri Raeusin, Mort Cohn, Aron Beck, 
Norma Caplan, Sidney Gerhardt, Adeline Herlick, Marty Jacobs, Bill Kolb, Iris 
Kwall, Lois Marks, Jeanne Norris, Lola Marks, Jeanne Norris, Lola Patton, 
Dorothy Rutkin Alen Schneider, Alice Sofis, Margee King, Marty Gross, Dotty 
Greiner, Marshall Nurenberg. • - •
Council Minutes
March 30, 1943.
The meeting was called to order at 7:15 
p. m.
Absent: Messrs. Dolan, Lindgren, and
Martin, and the Misses Gehrett, Zonge, 
and Houlihan.
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
Budget
Mr. Shewitz moved that the budget of 
Scabbard and Blade for a dance, Friday, 
April 2, be approved.
Motion carried.
Mr. Shewitz moved that the budget for 
Spring Carnival be approved.
It was moved to amend this motion to 
read: “that the budget for Spring Car­
nival be approved without the Call Day 
Concert,” which matter will be taken up 
later.
Amendment carried.
The amended motion was voted on.
Motion carried.
Social
Mr. Wolff moved that the petition from 
Scabbard and Blade for the use of Thistle 
Hall Friday evening, April 2, from 9 to 
12, be approved.
Motion carried.
Mr. Wolff moved that the petition from 
the Women’s Guild for permission to hold 
a Tag Day Tuesday, April 13, be approved.
Motion carried.
Elections
Mr. Sher moved that the petition from 
the Margaret Morrison Senate to hold 
class elections on Tuesday, April 13, 1943, 
at 11:30 a. m., be approved.
Motion carried.
Publications
Mr. Rose read the following report of 
the Publications Committee: “We do not 
approve the election of the TARTAN Edi­
tor, as held March 24, 1943, in that the 
method of ballot distribution was not sub­
mitted to the committee for approval. A 
re-election will be necessary.”
Points and Keys
Mr. Whiteside moved that the lists of 
students from the following organizations 
be awarded keys (one to each individual): 
TARTAN, Student Council, Women’s Glee 
Club, Tri-Publications, Technical, Kiltie 
Band, Men’s Glee Club, Scottie, Chapel 
Choir, Women’s Dorm Council, and the 
Thistle.
Motion defeated.
It was moved that the lists be ap­
proved with the understanding that each 
individual entitled to a key from more 
than one organization, will receipe a sep­
arate kdy for each activity.
Mr. Boyce moved that the motion be 
amended t6 the effect that the organiza­
tion must be able to pay for their keys,
Proposal Gives College 
Credit on Army Basis
The first adequate proposal ^for 
awarding credit for supervised 
courses to men and women return­
ing from service in the Army, N|tvy, 
and Marines has just been offered 
by the American Council on Educa­
tion. The Council recommends that 
colleges and schools base their ac­
crediting on the results of tests 
given by the United States Armed 
Forces Institute. These tests are 
now given to determine the results 
of correspondence courses given by 
the Institute, and also to measure 
all educational experience of the 
returning service men and women. 
The Institute is so arranged that it 
can send to any college which re­
quests it, a complete “competence 
profile” of every person in the var­
ious branches of the Forces. The 
Council recommends further that 
colleges place returning students on 
the basis of these profiles.
Also included in the Council’s 
plans is a recommendation that col­
leges which allow credit for ROTC, 
physical training, hygiene, or free 
electives “may well consider grant­
ing direct credit” for military train­
ing received in these subjects.
The Council stresses that its plan 
is merely to provide factual infor­
mation “to be utilized by the indi­
vidual institutions in the light of 
their own policies with regard to 
placement and credit, and offer a 
suitable alternative to the method 
of “blanket credit granting” resort­
ed to at the end of the last war.
and that the key9 are available. 
Amendment defeated.
Motion carried.
Spring Carnival
Mr. Jones gave a progress report of 
Spring Carnival.
Adjournment.
Respctfully submitted,
ELIZABETH ¿EALL,

---------------------------------------------------

CAMELS SURE 
ARE PINO HOW!
THEY'RE
EXTRA MIU) AND 
THAT RICH FLAVOR
f HOLDS UP PACK 
H AFTER PACK
B. J. Reynold* Tobacco Co., Winstoa-Salem, N. C.
TÜESDAY, APRIL 6, 1943THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
Alexander Scheirman
Continued from page 1 
room.” Not realizing what the 
teacher had in mind when she said 
those words, Alexander was slightly- 
embarrassed for what he thought 
was a compliment.
Alexander overcame all his dif­
ficulties admirably, and after com­
pleting his high school education in 
a year and a half, he was honored 
by being allowed to speak at his 
graduation exercises.
Alexander is like any other 
American as he is an ardent foot­
ball fan. He said to me that he liked 
the game so much that he didn’t 
miss a single football game while in 
high school. As for other pastimes, 
he likes to play ping-pong, and 
when he’s in a thoughtful mood, he 
enjoys a game of chess.
In his brief stay in the United 
States Alexander has come to like 
the country very much. After the 
war he expects to stay in the United 
States rather than go back to Ger­
many because he feels that there are 
many opportunities for everyone 
here. Alexander has, however, one 
burning ambition, and in his own 
words it is “to repay the United 
States for the haven it has given me 
and for the liberty that I am enjoy­
ing here.”
T. X. Boys Eat . . .
Continued from page 1 
men of Theta Xi as Dan Karl, M. 
A.’46, Harrold Hagaman, M. E.’46, 
and Dan Ossman, P’44, was excel­
lent.
Pledge Master, Ed Denne, M.
E.’45, has this to say about the food, 
“It was d------n good.” A spot inter­
view with the boys in the form of a 
pool reveals satisfied stomachs, 
flashing faces, and healthful person­
alities. The T. X.’s have established 
a precedent to be envied by every 
organized group on campus. It’s 
good to know you have a couple of 
reserve cooks which, incidently, are 
not for hire. Well, “Rosie’s” back 
now and promises extra good meals- 
Guess she’s a bit worried about the 
competition.
--------ON THE RECORD-----—
Today
12:30, Room 157, Arts, Mr. Charles 
A. H. Pearson will be in charge of 
the following phonograph recital:
Violin Concerto..........Mendelssohn
Thursday 
12:30, Room 157, Arts Dr. Freder­
ick Dorian will present the follow­
ing program:
La Mer ................................ Debussy
Spring Carnival. . .
Continued from page 1 
unmasking—under unusual circum­
stances your reporter is told.
An important part of the Mardi 
Gras will be a presentation of the 
floats. These floats cannot be more 
than 55 inches by 90 inches and 
must conform to O. P. A. materials 
restrictions. All groups entering the 
parade of floats must give notice of 
their intentions not later than to­
night. This notice is to be placed in 
the Student Council mail box at 
Student Union. Float prizes will be 
awarded. Another interetsing side­
light will be Antoin’e Cafe in This­
tle Hall. Antoine guarantees to have 
plenty of New Orleans atmosphere 
—colored band and all!
During the course of the evening, 
there will be a general promenade, 
during which the judges will select 
the costumes for awards. A cup will 
be given for the best costumed 
group and prizes will be given for 
the best costumed couple and for 
the best individual costume.
The Carnival Committee still 
cloaks the event that is going to oc­
cur a few minutes after the Mardi 
Grass opens in great secrecy. As to 
what or how, they refuse to divulge 
any information.
A-12, V-12 Tests Over; 
Results In One Month
Last Friday, April 2, at nine 
o’clock, two hundred and sixty-eight 
students met for two hours in the 
Tech gymnasium to take the first 
joint A-12 and V-12 test given by 
the Army and Navy. The students 
represented most of the high schools 
and colleges in the city, but Carne­
gie Tech, Pitt, and Duquesne had by 
far the largest showing. The major­
ity of the proctors were from Car­
negie.
Opinions on the difficulty of the 
test differed, but everyone agreed 
that it was quite all-inclusive. The 
test consisted of four main divisions: 
English, Chemistry, Physics, and 
Mathematics. The English section 
was also divided in two parts; vo­
cabulary and comprehension. Most 
comments by Carnegie students on 
the test appeared to fix the former 
subject as the most difficult of all. 
The students of other schools, how­
ever, where the science subjects 
are not stressed as much as at Car­
negie, did not agree with this state­
ment.
The much awaited results will be 
sent to each contestant in about a 
month in the envelope enclosed 
with the test papers.
-where cigarettes are judged
The "T-ZONE"—Taste and Throat—is the 
proving ground for cigarettes. Only your 
taste and throat can decide which ciga­
rette tastes best to you... and how it affects 
your throat. For your taste and throat are 
absolutely individual to you. Based on the 
experience of millions of smokers, we be­
lieve Camels will suit your "T-ZONE" to 
a "T." Prove it for yourself!
Camel
F/Rsr
ft/THE SERWCE
With men in the Marines, Army, Navy, 
and Coast Guard, the favorite cigarette is 
Camel. (Based on actual sales records io 
Canteens and Post Exchanges.)

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, APRIL 6, 1943
S*ufLr Pin, Hip.
Male Dramats Design 
Costumes, Accessories
Strange as it seems, almost all of 
the student designers of the Drama 
department are boys. It is not to 
be assumed however, that design­
ing classes are merely sewing bees, 
for the boys perform such important 
tasks as cutting patterns and su­
pervising the construction of the 
costumes.
Unusual was the experience of 
Michael Sivy, a senior in the Drama 
department. Michael not only de­
signed and supervised the construc­
tion of Mercutio’s costume, but he 
played the part himself. In addi­
tion, he designed several other cos­
tumes for Romeo and Juliet, and 
the women’s dresses for Pride and 
Prejudice, the first play of the sea­
son.
Almost all of the costumes used 
in Romeo and Juliet are the work 
of designing students.
• • •Dots n Dashes
by Dot Greiner
• • •
Electric light bulbs are brighter 
when they’re lit, and a lot of people 
are like that too. With this zany 
note a discussion on a subject touch­
ed upon once before in this column 
—Miss Riggs, language teacher and 
collector of funny books. Popular 
demand has practically dictated that 
the hidden side of our dear teacher’s 
life be revealed, and so—EXPOSE! 
Those forunate people who have 
ever spent any time in Gay Paree 
have come out of the experience 
either cured or crazy—Miss Riggs 
has been to Paris, and you can draw 
your own conclusions. Getting back 
to her habit of collecting funny 
books—it is difficult to classify this 
diversion definitely out of the 
match-folder and beer cap variety, 
it is as yet not elevated quite eonugh 
to be included with stamp collecting 
and coin saving. At any rate it’s 
different! Prize book of the col­
lection, and one which your reporter
GIVE HIM
A BREAK!
From 7 to 8 in the evening is the peak hour 
for long distance calls. It’s then that tele­
phone lines are most heavily burdened.
It’s then, too, that most men in the armed 
forces have an opportunity to call home 
from camp and navy yard.
You’ll make it possible for their calls to 
go through more quickly if you will, when­
ever possible, avoid the busy hour of 7 to 8 
when making out-of-town calls.
You can also help to keep war-time tele­
phone service fast and accurate if you will 
make your long distance calls on a station- 
to-station basis and call by number.
When you first learn a telephone num­
ber that you may wish to call again, make 
a note of it so that you will have it next 
time you call.
THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANY 
OF PENNSYLVANIA
has sampled is an unsound sage en­
titled LAND OF UNREASON. It’s 
the story of a man who starts off his 
rest cure by drinking the milk he 
had left outside the door for the 
Little People, and then, “by way of 
atonement, fills the bowl with some 
excellent Scotch.” After that any­
thing can happen in any man’s 
language—and does. This is but one 
book in quite a unique collection of 
imaginative works; with this is a 
hobby, it’s a mystery how Miss R. 
ever escaped calenture of the brain 
(in the vernacular — going nuts). 
Seriously, though, it’s very inter­
esting to learn just what takes the 
bitter taste of college from the 
mouths of the professors, and it all 
goes to prove what some one said, 
“people are funnier than anybody” 
—yes, and nicer, too.
Any of you susceptible people 
had better pull anchor and head for 
port . . . we hear tell that the 
German measles are breaking out 
all over the place. The Rubella is the 
name it was known as in them days; 
the specific cause is unknown, but 
the results are all to obvious, as the
D. U.’s will sorrowfully tell you.
A problem that is confronting 
many of the Tech students, partic­
ularly the women, is what to do this 
summer and what plans to make for 
their education in the future. With 
jobs as abundant as they are and 
salaries as high as they are report­
ed, the work-a-day world is an en­
ticing place these days. The general 
campus chatter seems to hinge on 
the following idea: “But it’s all so 
simple; I’ll work for a few years, 
and then I’ll come back to school 
and take my degree. The experi­
ence I’ll gain out in the world will 
benefit me when I return to col­
lege.” There is no doubt about the 
fact that experience gained from the 
outside world will be very valua­
ble in the future; no one disputes 
that premise. What is questionable 
is whether or not the released stu­
dent will be willing to put himself 
in harness again and settle down to 
routine and the books. Those who 
have attempted to do so will con­
firm the fact that it is not an easy 
task, although in many cases it has 
been done. Two or three years away 
from the classroom removes one 
definitely from the scholastic in­
fluences, and can very easily dis-
Let's go to
ISALY'S
MELK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM COINES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District 
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
Pan American Talks 
Will Prove Helpful 
To Those Going South
A study group, sponsored by the 
Pan American Cooperative Founda­
tion of Pittsburgh, is being formed 
to investigate and discuss the vital­
ly interesting lands to the south of 
us, according to Dr. Gregg, head of 
the History department. Well-qual­
ified speakers will lead in the con­
sideration of the history, geography, 
literature, art, trade, transportation, 
and daily lives of these neighboring 
nations.
The speakers and their subjects 
are as follows:
April 6, April 13, and April 20 
History of Latin * America 
Prof. N. Andrew N. Cleven, Professor of 
South American History Jat the University, 
and Honorary Consul of Bolivia.
April 27—Geography of Latin America 
Prof. J. Warren Nystrom of the Geography 
Department of the University of Pitts­
burgh.
May 4 and May 11 
Literature and Civilization 
Prof. M. A. DeVitis of the Department of 
Modern Languages of the University of 
Pittsburgh.
May 18—Art 
Prof. Walter Hovey, Head of the Depart­
ment of Fine Arts of the University of 
Pittsburgh.
May 28—Transportation 
Mr. John Canetta, engineer with West- 
inghouse Air Brake Company.
June 1 and June 8—Trade and Finance 
Prof. Asher Isaacs of the Economics De­
partment of the School of Business Ad­
ministration, University of Pittsburgh.
The entire series of ten lectures 
is being offered for a minimum fee 
of five dollars; single admissions 
will be at the rate of seventy-five 
cents each meeting. Meetings will 
be held on Tuesday evenings from 
8:00 to 10:00 P. M. in the Aero 
Room, Club Floor, William Penn 
Hotel.______________________________
place any good intentions of going 
back to college. This is something 
for the girls who are planning to 
make changes this summer to think 
about. The war admittedly makes 
it rough going for college students; 
most of the time they don’t know 
whether they’re coming or going, 
yet it may be well for them to take 
a lesson from their forefathers, 
whose philosophy was something 
like this: “When you’re out there in 
the field plowing up your ground, 
you wait ’til the first shot’s fired at 
you . . . then you grab your gun 
and get after the varmit.” That’s 
just another way of saying, “sit 
tight.”
YOUR CHOICE OF A BANK 
MAY BE THE BEGINNING 
OF A LONG AND USEFUL 
ASSOCIATION
MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
INSUftANCI CORPORATION

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, APRIL 6, 1943THE CARNEGIE TARTAN5
BEFORE LEAVING TECH
Don’t Forget A Tech Souvenir
TECH Polo Shirts Stationery
Sweaters Jewelry
Sweat Shirts Pennants
Scottie Dogs Dicals
And Many Other Items
Woodlawn Pharmacy
“Your Campus Drug Store”
MEL SNYDER AND HIS RETIRING STAFF, JEANNE KING 
. . . Annuit Coeptis! . . .
When Mel Snyder became Editor 
of the TARTAN at the beginning of 
this semester, he knew he had a 
tough job before him. There was 
only one other senior on the staff, 
most of the juniors had no technical 
knowledge of newspaper work, 
there were but three sophomores, 
and the freshman staff was just be­
ing developed. To top off his other 
troubles, the TARTAN was begin­
ning to stagger under a heavy finan­
cial strain. This made a very pretty 
picture for a fellow who was out 
to “carry on the high standards of 
the Carnegie TARTAN.” How it was 
done, he can’t say, but, before he 
left office last week, the TARTAN 
was still up to, and in some ways, 
exceeded the standards which had 
been set for it.
That Mel deserves a great deal of 
credit is not quite enough. Those 
words do not tell how he was re­
sponsible for instilling his raw staff 
with the firm desire to continue the 
publication of the TARTAN after 
his term of office was over. Had he 
been disinterested, or careless, the 
present circumstances alone, might 
have caused the TARTAN to di- 
solve.
A week ago, Mel cleaned off his 
TARTAN desk and, as if with a 
heavy weight off his mind, waved 
goodbye to the staff. Complications 
developed, and, after a hurried call, 
he came right back to the old trou­
ble. The situation was cleared up 
in a few days and he said, as he left, 
“I love the TARTAN and have given 
it the best months of my life, but I’m 
sure glad that I’m leaving this of­
fice for the last time!” Annuit 
Coeptis!
I can remember Jeanne King 
when she was a nice girl—that is to 
say, before she knew any bad words. 
And what was the cause for her 
sudden plunge into degredation and 
sin? It’s all because of the TARTAN 
and her position on that newspa­
per’s staff last semester. Up until 
then, she was a member of Alpha 
Chi Alpha, Kappa Phi Delta and 
Mortar Board as well as a reporter 
and secretary for the TARTAN— 
and she was still a nice girl. But 
came November 24th, and Jeanne’s 
election as Managing Editor of the 
aforementioned sheet. That’s where 
she went wrong! Speaking from 
experience, I know what poor 
Jeanne had to contend with.
It was thus that Jeanne, through 
the natural course of time, became a 
typical Managing Editor. I have 
seen her dash into the TARTAN of­
fice on Sunday afternoon, take off 
her coat and remake a page or two. 
I have met her down at the printer’s 
at 8:00 A. M. Monday morning 
pouring over Saturday’s proofs. And 
I have heard her say more than 
“gosh darn.” But neither her moth­
er nor Mrs. Yon have anything to 
worry about, because I’ve never 
heard her, even when it was justi­
fied, say a really bad word!
WANTED
26 inch Man’s Bicvcle
Good Condition 
Reasonable
Call JA. 2073
LEONARD’S MEN’S SHOP
CAMPUS HEADQUARTERS 
ARROW PRODUCTS.
Comer Forbes at Atwood
FRANK
MEN'S WEAR
OPEN EVERY EVENING
5872 FORBES STREET SQUIRREL HILL
SHIRTS • TIES • HANDKERCHIEFS • UNDERWEAR • SPORT SHIRTS
ACROSS THE CUT
By Marty Gross
“She Dares Say!”
Mrs. Florence Fisher Parry, the 
Pittsburgh Press’ exponent of good 
old American “wholesome sense,” 
entered the field of dramatic critic­
ism last Thursday with a pitiful 
critique of the Drama School’s pro­
duction of “Romeo and Juliet.” Not 
to be outdone by more formidable 
and experienced critics who high­
ly praised Mr. Payne’s production, 
Mrs. Parry has novelly attacked the 
play as having an unproportioned 
and detrimental effiect on her little 
children.
Opening her daily column “I Dare 
Say,” with a stern reprimand to 
American mothers for stuffing cul­
ture down their little kiddies’ 
throats, she subtly weaves Carne­
gie’s “Romeo and Juliet” into this 
already uncalled-for sermon. “But,” 
the Hoosier Schoolmisteress ram­
bles on, “The Unforgivagle Error 
was to drag them over to Carnegie 
Tech to see every production the 
Drama School held of Shapespeare’s 
plays.” As students of Tech, we real­
ize the superiority of the Drama 
School and the excellence of the 
major part of the production—but 
we never dared believe that they 
were habit-forming. Perhaps Mrs. 
Parry’s yearly pilgrimage to the 
“Little Theatre” is merely this mod­
ern mother’s method of punishing 
her horde of infants. Further refer­
ence to “their agonizing sessions out 
at Carnegie Tech” fully supports 
our theory that Mr. Iden Payne’s 
efforts have supplanted Mrs. Parry’s 
horsewhip. We are proud to think 
that we have been instrumental in 
the upbringing of infants—even if 
they are Mrs. Parry’s.
“For while Shakespeare in the 
classic form of the Elizabethan the­
ater is altogether charming to the 
informed theatre-goer,” our advo­
cate of the “homespun era” con- 
tinuess “Shakespeare himself would 
be the first to admit that there has 
been considerable improvement in 
stage technique in the past 300 
years.” We imagine that “Romeo 
and Juliet” produced in true Globe 
Theatre style by the world’s fore­
most Shakespearean director does 
not appeal to her “aesthetic sense”; 
mayhap a modern Romeo dashing 
about in a convertible Packard, in 
addition to a rotating stage to pro­
duce the changes of scenery would 
have coincided more with her ideas 
concerning modern stage technique.
“But,” she finally concludes, “I 
shall never take my grandchildren. 
To the circus we will go, and 
Mickey Mouse, and never see hide 
or hair of Mr. Shakespeare till they 
are fully grown.” We shall endeav­
or to obtain Mr. Payne’s efforts in a 
Shakesperean production of Donald 
Duck. Bring the kiddies!
“Take care of Mom, and don’t spot 
my Arrow ShirtsF’
You can always include Arrow Shirts among a 
man’s favorite possessions, and why not? The spe­
cial Mitoga fit, Sanforized label (which guarantees 
fabric shrinkage less than 1%), anchored buttons 
and the world-famous collar all contribute to a work 
of art in tailoring. The clean crisp feeling of a new 
Arrow shirt on your back is a lesson in morale. See 
your dealer today! Whites and fancies, $2.24, up.

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, APRIL 6, 1943
Consensus of Opinion On Campus 
Is That Varsity Sports Continue
By John A. Lindberg v
Citcom “A” Wins 
Volley Ball Title
The old adage about the stronger 
sex wearing the pants came out in 
the wash last Monday night at Ski- 
bo Gym when Citcom A defeated 
their weak sister, Citcom B, to cap­
ture the school’s volleyball cham­
pionship.
The family squabble was decided 
quite convincingly in favor of the 
favorite, Citcom A. The latter, loser 
of only one battle (that by default 
to the Delta Upsilon aggregation) 
in their trek to the title, encounter­
ed Citcom B who came out to the 
battle with a clean slate of all wins, 
no losses. The expected fierce bat­
tle turned out to be a rout as Cit­
com B minus their one man team, 
Arnold Horelick, couldn’t manage 
to stop the bullet like spikes of 
Ralph Sill. With Harry Hunter and 
Frank Lucas setting up the “sphere” 
just as well as the absent Joe Ben- 
ko, points were added to the A team 
score card in rapid order.
Both teams started out at about 
an even pace with the score reading 
8-5 Citcom A, after a few interesting 
minutes. But it wasn’t in the books 
for the B boys to come close, and the 
best Jim Allerdice could do with his 
encouragements and shouting was 
to add 2 more points to his teams 
score. The steamroller, meaning 
Citcom A, meanwhile added 13 
points and came out on the long end 
of a 21-7 score for the first of 5 
games. One down, two to go.
The second game proved futile on 
the part of the B’ees as they went 
from bad to worse and again lost, 
this time by a remarkable score for 
a play-off game, 21-3. It made the 
few onlookers wonder if something 
or other wasn’t wrong with the “un­
defeated” (B team) Clan boys.
A pep talk by Coach Allerdice 
seemed to help the team. They came 
out fighting and went down fighting, 
the third time. The score showed 
some improvement, but not much, 
21-9. And so hail the victor and 
champion, Citcom A, in this year’s 
Volleyball Leagues.
By John A. Lindberg
The facts that there is no spring 
sports in the offing, no prospects of 
football next year, and the Army 
certain to be quartered here, the 
question of what to do with inter­
collegiate sports has arisen. An in­
quiry, which was conducted by Don 
French, Asher Etkes, and John Lind­
berg, was held concerning this ques­
tion in attempt to discover the an­
swer. Also the inquiry was aimed to 
find out whether varsity competi­
tion should be stressed over intra­
mural competition, vice-versa, or 
whether both should have equal 
backing. The question put to the 
interviewees was: “What is your 
opinion of the Tech sport situation, 
pertaining to varsity versus intra­
mural competition? Do you favor 
a strong intramural program, a 
strong varsity program, or the pres­
ent set-up?” The answers seem to 
indicate a common trend of 
thought.
Dr. Doherty: For a well rounded 
curriculum it is necessary that both 
varsity and intramural sports be 
represented on campus. Both should 
be on a 50-50 basis, with neither one 
being stressed over the other. The
HEALTH
is
Important
IgjOWtl u<$
1Keep Fit by 
I \ Bowling
University Recreation
407 South Craig Street 
Phone MAyflower 2998
apparent decline of intercollegiate 
sports may be attributed to the de­
clining number of male students in 
school today.
Dr. Warden: Since the Army
states specifically that men in the 
Army Specialized Training Courses 
cannot enter intercollegiate sports, 
it will be extremely difficult to con­
tinue them. However, if it is at all 
possible, considering the number of 
men in school, varsity sports should 
be continued.
Mr. Eyman: Under present condi­
tions intramurals should predomin­
ate. However, under normal condi­
tions, varsity competition is favor­
ed, if strong varsity teams can be 
placed on the field. If we are to have 
intercollegiate sports, they should 
be good.
Mr. Overend: Varsity competition 
has something that intramurals will 
never have—that desire to go out 
and compete with someone strange 
and unknown. It is an innate spirit 
in' mankind, and for this reason var­
sity athletics are almost a necessity; 
they will never be replaced by in­
tramurals since they have some­
thing that intramurals do not 
possess.
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
HOTEL WEBSTER 
HALL
Available For
PRIVATE PARTIES 
BANQUETS 
SWIMMING PARTIES
MAyflower 7700 j
Fifth near Mellon Institute ;
Mr. Hannum: Both intercollegiate 
and intramural sports are good, but 
one cannot supersede the other. In­
tramural competition is characteriz­
ed by the desire to compete for the 
sake of health, recreation, and 
pleasure of the participant. It is 
more or less confined in its nature. 
This is best exemplified by a bunch 
of kids on a corner lot getting to­
gether for the sheer pleasure deriv­
ed from competition. The family in­
dulging in a game of croquet is an­
other example. Varsity sports are 
characterized by keenness, charac­
ter-building, and the true spirit of 
competition. It includes much 
broader territory than intramurals. 
The kids on the corner lot inevita­
bly will compete with other kids on 
the next corner. Army camps go out 
to meet other Army camps. Again 
it is the desire to meet someone in 
bodily contact who is a stranger, to 
match your skill and ability against 
his. Therefore, intercollegiate sports 
are necessary to satisfy those stu­
dents desiring it and to maintain 
real school spirit.
Prof. Carroll: It would indeed be 
unfortunate if Carnegie Tech should 
permanently discard intercollegiate 
sports in favor of intramurals, al­
though both are essential to a well 
balanced college athletic program. 
In spite of the severe criticism level­
ed at intercollegiate football in re­
cent years, it makes an invaluable 
contribution, if properly controlled, 
to the creation of real college spirit, 
tradition, and morale in a way that 
intramural sports cannot possibly 
do. Without intramural sports it is 
one part of Tech against another; 
with intercollegiate sports it is all 
Tech united against the rest of the 
country. It is a nice warm feeling 
you have when you win frequent­
ly enough over worthy opponents to 
be respected. Intercollegiate foot­
ball has given the country a number 
of fine coaches, who aid considera­
bly in the physical fitness program 
of the armed forces.
Here at Tech we have not found 
a suitable compromise between 
these two factions. Perhaps it is 
futile to answer the problem at 
present. But when peace and nor­
malcy again arrive, a solution 
should be found that will enable to 
compete on even terms with worthy 
and interesting opponents.
* * *
From the above opinions it is 
fairly certain that most of the mem­
bers of the faculty believe that in­
tercollegiate sports should continue 
as long as possible, and after the 
war is over, they should be given 
proper emphasis. It should also be 
noted that intramurals are an in­
tegral part of our sports program at 
Tech, and appear to be the factor 
that will keep athletics alive. Next 
week this series of opinions will be 
continued, at which time various 
members of the student body will 
be given an opportunity to express 
their opinions on this question.
THE
PLACE TO EAT 
OAKLAND
BILL'S LUNCH ROOM
3911 Forbes Street
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
ALL
MAKES
i i §§ $3.00 per 
Month
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATl&ntic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
HOT ‘¡FEE MOS M ABJLWSXSPVE 2INVEST 107. OF'-YOUR INCOME IN WAR BONDS AND STAMPS!
WSS 735 B V. S. Treasury Dept.
From the Press Section of the War Savings Staff of the Treasury Department, 
Washington, D. C., comes a new War Bond Sports Feature . . . “STARS IN SERV­
ICE” . . . Because Sports Editors throughout the country have made known their 
desire to use their columns to aid the promotion of War Bonds, this feature has been 
prepared with the volunteer assistance of Alan Mayer, of United Features Syndicates.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, APRIL 6, 1943THE CARNEGIE TARTAN7
Foul Shooting Contest 
Won By Harry Lindahl
As a result of requests by many 
students, the competition among 
groups in foul shooting was sponsor­
ed by the Intramural Board. When 
finals in group competition were run 
off, the students were still unsatis­
fied and desired an individual con­
test to determine the champion 
shooter of the school. This was real­
ized to the extent that the Board 
furnished referees with Jim Aller- 
dice handling the whole set-up.
In order that a contestant qual­
ify, he had to sink 15 out of 20 shots. 
The twenty students who qualified 
were arranged in groups of four-
Last Wednesday night the com­
petition was held with Harry Lin­
dahl taking top honors by sinking 
47 out of a possible 50 baskets. Tak­
ing second place by dropping 7 
baskets less was Ed Denne. The last 
of the first three was Ed Mehl, who 
ran a very, close third with 39 out 
a possible 50 points.
their meeting last Saturday the all 
important one.
The first game showed what was 
to come. Beta Sigma Rho, taking ad­
vantage of a phenomenal last 
frame, nosed out the surprised Clan 
members by 6 pins, 644 to 638. 
Flushed by success, they literally 
murdered their friendly enemies in 
the next game. Led by Chuck Pos~ 
ner, he of Brooklyn fame, who roll­
ed the highest one game score of the 
season 208, they humbled Citcom B 
to clinch the title of League I by 
rolling 744 to 665. Accomplishing 
what they were set out to do, the 
third game proved to be an anti-cli- 
max as Citcom B took it. Both teams 
rolled poor scores with the Clan’s 
537 beating the 473 posted by the 
fraternity’s subs.
Championship Game
Next Saturday the respective 
winners of their Leagues, Delta Tau 
Delta and Beta Sigma Rho will bat­
tle it out to the last pin, for the cov­
eted school’s title.
Beta5 Delt Swimmers 
Win Intramural Meets
Wednesday afternoon Beta Theta 
Pi and Delta Tau Delta blasted out 
wins over Citcom and Beta Sigma 
Rho to open the intramural swim­
ming season. Both winners showed 
a wide margin of superiority as can 
be seen from the final scores. The 
Betas ran up 36 points while Citcom 
was gathering in 9, and the Delts 
got 34 to 16 for the Beta Sigs. The 
Betas took first in every event ex­
cept the 50 yard freestyle as well as 
a large part of the second places. 
They had power to burn and com­
pletely outclassed a weak Citcom 
team. The other match was a little 
closer but it was still an easy win 
for the Delts. They won everything 
except the backstroke event and 
that race was very close.
The schedule for this week calls 
for a double-header match between 
Delta Upsilon and Pi Kappa Alpha 
on Monday together with the Delta 
Tau Delta-Beta Theta Pi play-off.
Beta Sigs, Delts Battle 
For Bowling Championship
The Greeks had a word for it, and 
still have it. Last Saturday Beta Sig­
ma Rho defeated Citcom B to gain 
League I’s title and earn the right 
to meet the Delts next Saturday for 
that word, school’s bowling “Cham­
pionship.”
Coming down the stretch neck to 
neck, the Clan men and the Beta 
Sigs defeated the Betas and PiKAs 
respectively during the past week. 
That still left them tied and made
because the Betas who won the 
championship last year are out to 
repeat, and the D. U.’s who were 
runners-up are going to try to do 
better this time. It will be the first 
meet of the year for both D. U. and 
PiKA. Wednesday at 5:00 P. M. four 
more teams will swim in elimina­
tion battles, all of them competing 
in their first matches. Sigma Alpha 
Epsilon meets Scobell and Tau Del­
ta Phi will swim against Alpha Tau
Gepyciffcc 190. ,”Su­­ * Mvtu Toueoo Co.
YOU CAN DEPEND ON 
CHESTERFIELD’S
Right Combination of the 
world’s best cigarette tobaccos to give
you a madiso nsAAso ve.As
]Vlore and more smokers are swinging along 
with Chesterfield because they know they can always 
depend on this MILDER, Vollo.36N2lCAR cigarette 
to give them more smoking pleasure.
Because it is made of the right combination of the 
world’s best cigarette tobaccos, Chesterfield is known 
the world over as the cigarette that SATISFIES. You 
can't buy a better cigarette.
THE CIGARETTE THAT GIVES
SMOKERS WHAT THEY WANT

---------------------------------------------------

8THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, APRIL 6, 1943
Hurry! Get Tickets 
Engineers’ Banquet 
May 8th at Fort Pitt
In order to put a halt to all in­
quiries concerning food at the En­
gineer’s Banquet we hereby commit 
ourselves — to almost nothing def­
inite! At the present time we cannot 
be specific as to exact items on the 
menu, but the best food available 
will be provided as is traditional 
after 28 years of successful ban­
queting.
Tickets for the Banquet are now 
available and may be purchased 
from Engineering Officers or mem­
bers of the social committee. Also 
there will be men stationed night­
ly from 7:00 to 7:30, near the en­
trance to the registrars office so that 
tickets may then be obtained. Re­
member, reservations are limited so 
obtain tickets early. The price is 
only $2.50—a nominal fee for such 
entertainment.
As a reminder—the Banquet will 
be held May 8, in the English Room 
of the Fort Pitt Hotel.
For further information or for 
making reservations please drop a 
note in the inter-school mail box 
(adjacent to the bookstore) ad­
dressed to C. I. T. Evening Student 
Council, Box 353.
*7<J *7he. Qdiiosi
Dear Editor:
Several weeks ago I was in Car­
negie Union when there was an air 
raid alarm. The lights were imme­
diately extinguished, and all the 
people in the building went to the 
air raid shelter in the basement. 
Naturally, I thought that the shelter 
would have black-out curtains so 
that at least a small light could be 
kept burning during the black­
out, as this is the custom in all pub­
lic buildings. However, at the Union 
there are no black-out drapes, and 
all the boys and girls, who were in 
the building at the time the alarm 
was sounded had to remain standing 
in the pitch dark cellar until the all- 
clear was given.
I think this situation is serious 
and that something should be done 
about it. It certainly would not be 
expensive to equip the large cellar 
room at the Union with black-out 
curtains. With practice air raid 
alarms becoming more and more 
frequent, consideration should be 
given this matter.
Sincerely,
M. W.
INFORMAL DANCING
Every FRIDAY and 
SATURDAY NIGHT
Billy Hinds Music 
$1 per person (plus tax)
See us about your next party
HOTEL SCHENLEY
Aluminum Tubing
By T. L. Corey
In the manufacture of tubular 
products, cold drawing is the pro­
cess by which extruded or cold roll­
ed tube blooms are converted into 
finished tubing, processing distinc­
tive properties which are generally 
unattainable in the hot finished con­
dition. Essentially, cold drawing is 
a process of reduction by plastic de­
formation caused by cimcumfer- 
ential pressure of the die and man­
drel, or of the die only, and is moti­
vated by a direct pull of the bench 
tongs. Blooms are drawn through a 
die the size of which is smaller than 
the diameter of the bloom by the 
amount the latter is to be reduced 
in a single pass.
The “sinking” process does not 
employ an interior tool or mandrel, 
and the reduction in outside diam­
eter is usually accompanied by a 
variable increase in wall thickness, 
depending on the amount of reduc­
tion and the original wall thickness.
A simultaneous reduction of out­
side diameter and wall thickness of 
tubing is accomplished by the use of 
an interior too or mandrel of proper 
diameter attached to a long man­
drel rod of smaller cross section 
which is supported by an adjust­
able bracket at the mandrel end of 
the bench. To insure an efficient lu­
brication, the mandrel rod may be 
hollow to permit circulation of the 
mandrel lubricant. The lubrication 
of the outside of the tube is accom­
plished by impingement of a lubri­
cant stream on the tube bloom just 
a sit enters the die.
Since, in both “sinking” and man­
drel drawing, the total drawing 
force has to be carried by the tub­
ing, the amount of reduction is 
therefore limited by the strength of 
the tube being drawn. The speed of 
the bench chain is limited by the 
impact load created at the begin­
ning of the drawing operation. This 
load, if excessive, can break the 
tube or tube point when large re­
ductions are attempted.
NEXT ISSUE — LAST 
FOR THIS SEMESTER 
COME OUT FOR THE 
FINAL ROUNDUP
RODGERS
DAIRY STORES
MILK SHAKES
Made from Pure Whole Milk for 
only 10c
We Do Not Use Skim Milk.
NEAREST STORES LOCATED
------AT------
3905 FORBES STREET
Near Bouquet Street
4619 CENTER AVENUE
Near Craig Street
The Carnegie Plaid
Page edited by Evening School Students of Car­negie Institute of Technology. All views or opin­ions expressed in editorial column are not neces­sarily endorsed by the Editorial Board of the Day School staff.* EditorNancy E. Lewis 
News Editor Robert C. King 
Associate Editor of Engineering Joseph M. Rymar 
Associate Editor of Industries Mary Jo Weber 
Associate Editor of Fine Arts Marion Frost
Bob Lenigan, former Plaid staff 
member, is now one of Uncle Sam’s 
boys at Camp McCain in Mississip­
pi. We hear that he plays in the 
camp band . . . When Chester Bis- 
cup goes to the frat meetings even 
his son tells him “no onions to­
night, Daddy.” It seems that beer 
and hamburgers, with onions, al­
ways top off the evening at the fav­
orite hangout, the Park Tavern . . . 
Those two puzzled-looking gents 
you see pouring over their slide 
rules Friday nights in the Indus­
tries Building hallway are a couple 
of guys named Donaldson and Hurl- 
burt . . . Charles Coyler, Engineer­
ing student, is indeed a fortunate 
guy. Seems he went to school with 
Hollywood’s glamour girl, Janet 
Blair. They’re both from Altoona, 
Pa. . . . Private Phil Boyle is now 
an Acting Corporal at Camp Sibert, 
Alabama . . . Peg Lanagan—graci- 
out theatrical agent who provided 
the Engineers with the show for last 
year’s banquet — revealed that the
StaffRobert Bassett Albert Flanders John Groll Mary Hensler John Hundertmark
Edward A. Macha S. W. Marcinizyn Caroline Noll D. Pettigrew, Jr. Pearl PettolaAlbert Kersturokos
female impersonator (boy, what a 
honey!) who thrilled all the front 
row boys, is hoping to again contact 
her friends . . . The girls on the 
Plaid staff will certainly hate to see 
the last issue of the paper go to 
press—for then we’ll have to go out 
and search for our own chewing 
gum. John Groll has faithfully sup­
plied it every Friday night for 
weeks . . . Talking about the last 
issue of the Plaid makes us wonder 
what the Grill down the street will 
do for business on Fridays. This 
brain work seems to creat great ap­
petites . . . This week’s mystery— 
Where is Jim Flaherty? He left for 
the Army Air Corp and we haven’t 
heard anything from him yet. We 
know that his friend, Joe Klein, is 
out west somewhere but Jim seems 
to have completely disappeared.
‘‘Remember reading that in your news­
paper? That’s a real story from the 
South Pacific. When it’s time to stand 
by for refreshment, that’s the job for 
ice-cold Coca-Cola. Goes right where 
thirst comes from and refreshment 
comes to take its place. That’s why 
nothing takes the place of ice-cold 
Coca-Cola. It has a taste and re­
freshing qualities all its own.”
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY EY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY. PITTSBURGH, PA.
