the carne gi
TUESDAY, APRIL 1, 1947 
VOL. 40, NO. 21
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA
Kaye And Long Secured For Carnival
Students Vote 
OnAmendment
An all-school assembly on April 
8 has been called by Student 
Council in order to vote on the 
proposed amendment to the con­
stitution of the Council. This 
amendment was passed by the 
Council at its meeting last Wed­
nesday. A two-thirds vote of all 
students voting is necessary for 
ratification of the amendment.
The amendment provides that 
elections for Student Council 
members shall :be held twice each 
year, in the fall and spring sem­
esters. One-half of the Council 
members shall be elected at each 
election on a rotation basis, and 
a new Council president shall be 
elected each semester. To be elig­
ible for election as president, a 
student must have served on 
Council for one semester. In this 
way, one-half of Council will al­
ways have had a semester’s ex­
perience, and the Council will be 
headed by an experienced presi­
dent.
If the amendment is passed, 
[Continued on page 4]
Council Candidates 
Should Submit-Signed Petitions
Elections for representatives to 
Student Council will be held on 
Tuesday, April 22. Candidates for 
office must submit a petition with 
twenty-five signatures to the 
Council office by 3:00 p. m., Fri­
day, April 11.
All petitions must be signed by 
twenty-five full-time students of 
the college which the candidate 
seeks to represent. Lower-class 
candidates (freshmen and soph­
omores) must obtain ten signa­
tures from lowerclassmen; junior 
candidates must obtain ten signa­
tures from upperclassmen (juniors 
and seniors). The remaining fif­
teen signatures may be obtained 
from the members of the candi­
date’s college at large. Seniors are 
not eligible to be candidates. No 
student is allowed to sign more 
than one petition.
Petition blanks may be obtained 
from Miss Stewart in the Council 
office. Any question concerning 
the petitions should toe referred to 
that office.
Aii-School Assembly Sammy Kaye Plays Friday Night, May 2;
Johnny Long Booked For Saturday Evening
The proposed amendment to 
the Student Council Constitu­
tion concerning semi-annual 
elections to the Council will 
be voted on at two all-school 
assemblies on April 8 at 11:30 
and 12:30 in the Little Thea­
ter. j
Thistle Announces 
Editorial Staff 
For Next Year
Clark Sloan, newly-elected ed­
itor of the Thistle, has announced 
his staff for next year. John Big- 
ley, the business manager, is a 
senior majoring in management 
engineering. The managing editor 
will be George Bauer, a sopho­
more management engineer.
Helen Brody, one of the asso­
ciate editors, is a secretarial 
studies sophomore. Myra Jane 
Barry, the other associate editor, 
is a sophomore, majoring in Eng­
lish. The advertising manager, 
Lolly Anderson, is a sophomore 
mechanical engineer.
The art editor will be chosen 
by a competition in the near fu­
ture.
’Mid the gay atmosphere of 
Spring Carnival, 1250 couples will 
“swing and sway” to the music of 
Sammy Kaye and, as a formal 
climax to the glorious week-end 
celebration, dance to the rhythms 
of Johnny Long.
Cloyd Mellott, chairman of 
Spring Carnival committee, an­
nounced today that Sammy Kaye 
has been signed for Friday night 
and Johnny Long for Saturday of 
carnival weekend May 1-3.
“So You Want to Lead a Band” 
Sammy Kaye will bring with 
him his radio feature “So You 
Want to Lead a Band.” This is the 
novelty that has helped make him 
one of the best bands and biggest 
box office attractions in the na­
tion.
The choice of Johnny Long for 
Saturday night is adjudged excel­
lent. The mellowness of Long’s vi­
olins promises to add just the 
right touch for the evening of 
formal dancing.
Both Leaders College Boys 
Both Kaye and Long are old 
college boys. Kaye was recently 
named by the Ohio State Alumni 
Association as one of ten leading 
graduates of the University. Long 
uses for his theme song his fra­
ternity’s White Star of Sigma Nu.
The free ticket to Spring Car­
nival goes to Herb Saiger, P&D 
sophomore, for the correct answer 
to WCIT’s contest to guess the
VA Announces Rules Applying 
To Summer Vacationing Vets
The Veterans Administration 
office has announced the follow­
ing regulations for those veterans 
who will not be in regular at­
tendance at CIT this summer:
(1) The veteran must put 
through a change of address, so 
that the May subsistence check 
can be sent to the place where 
he will reside after June 1. Those 
who are currently receiving sub­
sistence checks at their perma­
nent homes need not concern 
themselves with this.
(2) Veterans who desire to ap­
ply for accrued leave, not to ex­
ceed 30 days, must do so prior to 
interruption of their training. 
Leave is accrued at the rate of 
2TU2 days per month of school and
Theresa Priory To Discuss 
“ Your Newspaper and Career”
Lotte Jacobi, N. Y.
Theresa Priory, assistant on the 
education page of the New York 
Herald Tribune, will discuss 
“Your Newspaper and Your 
Career” at 11:30 Tuesday, April 
15, in an assembly program. Miss 
Priory is here to collect informa­
tion to feature the Margaret Mor­
rison Carnegie College on the New 
York paper’s education page.
Miss Priory, who is married to 
Mr. Kenelm R. Winslow, circula­
tion manager of the Tribune, has 
been with the; newspaper since 
1934. Starting as a clerk, she was 
promoted to suburban circulation 
manager and, in 1941, was placed 
in charge of promoting sales of 
the Herald Tribune in women’s 
cqlleges from Maine to North Car­
olina. In 1945 she became assist­
ant on the education page, a goal 
she had always hoped to achieve.
is deducted from remaining en­
titlement.
(3) Those veterans who gradu­
ate, or plan to attend any other 
schools, facility, or take training- 
on-the-job during the summer 
should apply for a supplemental 
certificate of eligibility. This sup­
plemental certificate is required 
by the new institution. It is very 
important that veterans who at­
tend some other school during the 
summer and who will return here 
for the fall term apply at the 
other school for another supple­
mental certificate. This is re­
quired before they can return.
(4) Any veteran who presum­
ably will not be permitted to at­
tend classes this summer,- accord­
ing to the schedule released by 
Dr. Jones, (Tartan, March 1947), 
but who actually is an irregular 
student and will be in attendance 
this summer should notify the VA 
office at once in order that his 
subsistence not be cut off and in­
terrupted as of May 24 (end of 
spring semester). If a veteran in 
such circumstances fails to notify 
this office of his return to sum­
mer school, it will take a long 
time to reinstate his subsistence 
once it has been interrupted.
(5) Any veteran who is sched­
uled to attend this summer ac­
cording to Dr. Jones’ schedule in 
the Tartan need not report to this 
office since the above does not 
directly concern him.
(6) It is the individual respon­
sibility of .each veteran (under 
either P. L. 346 or P. L. 16) to de­
termine his situation relative to 
the above paragraphs and to re­
port to the VA office accordingly.
C. N. ABERNATHY, 
Training Officer 
Veterans Administration 
Room 144C 
Veterans Center
Sammy Kaye
carnival bands and the names of 
the records played over the local 
airway last Thursday night.
Seven Girls Voted 
To Carnival Court
Beauty will reign! After several 
weeks of furious campaigning, 
campus connoisseurs of femin­
inity selected the campus’s finest 
at the polls March 25. The champs, 
voted tops out of eighteen candi­
dates, are: Caroline Cook, Kappa 
Kappa Gamma; Jane Grim, Chi 
Omega; Margaret Harris, Kappa 
Alpha Theta; June Hawk, Delta 
Delta Delta; Joanne Hipp, Kappa 
Alpha Theta; Phillis Petrikin, 
Kappa Alpha Theta; Ardyth 
Schaffer, Delta Gamma.
To give the judges and girls an 
opportunity to become better ac­
quainted, the ATO’s are giving a 
banquet in their honor sometime 
after Easter. Coronation of the 
Queen is scheduled on the same 
program as Call Day, during 
Spring Carnival.
The fairest of the seven will be 
chosen by a committee of five on 
the basis of popularity, person­
ality, activities, and intelligence, 
as well as beauty. She will reign 
[Continued on page 3]
Clothing Classes 
Show Fashions
Kaufmann’s Department store, 
in cooperation with the clothing 
classes of Margaret Morrison Car­
negie College, will present an all­
cotton Fashion Show, sponsored 
by the Cotton Textile Institute, at 
3:30 April 18 and 19 in the elev­
enth floor Tea Room of Kauf­
man’s.
The show displays five scenes; 
“Boy and Girl in the Sun,” “Boy 
and Girl Meet In Town,” “Boy 
and Girl Step Out Together,” 
“Moonlight Glows on Cotton,” and 
“Romance Has Flowered.”
“Boy and Girl Play in the Sun” 
will feature kulots, sun-back play 
clothes, shorts and dress ensem­
bles, and beach clothes. Betty 
Gompers will be decked out for 
sailing in her white peddle-push- 
ers and matching jacket with a 
dashing pirate scarf encircling the 
waist.
“Boy and Girl Meet in Town” 
[Continued on page 4]
Johnny Long
Carnival, S&S 
To Sell Tickets
Tickets for Spring Carnival and 
Scotch and Soda will go on sale 
independently soon after the 
Easter recess. Seats for the S&S 
show, Rock ’n’ Riot, will be sold 
at the flat price of $1.20 for all 
student seats. The Spring Car­
nival ticket will sell for $6.00 per 
couple.
The financial split between 
Spring Carnival and Scotch and 
Soda was the result of disagree­
ment on two points. The Spring 
Carnival committee could not 
meet Scotch and Soda’s request 
for advanced cash, and the S&S 
board could not agree with Spring 
Carnival’s insistence that the Car­
nival ticket holders would get a 
preference of seats over the other 
students.
Under the present arrangement, 
students will pay $6.00 for admis­
sion to the two big Carnival danc­
es and the other Carnival events. 
Scotch and Soda has raised its 
price per seat for Carnival ticket 
holders from $1.00 to $1.20, and 
lowered the price for other stu- 
[Continued on page 4]
Puppets Appear 
In “Bug In A Rug”
“A Bug in a Rug,” marionette 
show presented by Bill Ryan, will 
have two performances this af­
ternoon at 3:30 and 4:30. The 
show will be presented in the 
Studio Theatre located in the 
Skibo Building just across from 
the main entrance of Administra­
tion Hall.
Bill Ryan, a sophomore dramat, 
has been an amateur puppeteer 
for many years; this is his first 
public performance here. He will 
also appear» with his marionettes 
in the forthcoming Scotch and 
Soda show, Rock ’n’ Riot.
Council Candidates
Elections for representa­
tives to Student Council 
will be held on Tuesday, 
April 22. Each candidate for 
office must submit a petition 
with twenty-five signatures to 
IH 152 by 3:00 p. m., Friday, 
April 11. Seniors are not eli- 1 
gible to be candidates. Peti­
tion blanks may be obtained 
from Miss Stewart in IH 152.

---------------------------------------------------

zTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, APRIL 1, 1947
the «'"^TARTAN
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075, Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Telephone: SChenley 4557 
After office hours: Editor SC. 8951; Business Manager, EM. 9424
Publishes weekly during the school year, except holidays and examination periods, by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Editor ............................ R. C. Eschenbach Asst. Business Managei .... Sam Moses
Business Manager ................ Bill Meyers Advertising Manager..........Ed Friedman. . Circulation Manager .......... Ivan FaigenManaging Editor .......... Audrey Wilkins Headline Editor .. Camille McCullough
News Editor ..................   Tony Arrott Make-up Assistant ............ Shirley SeinerPersonnel Manager .......... H. Aaronson Asst. Copy Editor ............ Bill McShane
Copy Editor .......................... Bill Cohen Columnists .... Jean Knee, Carl KlahrSports Editor . Pete Cregut Copy Staff Dale Wright, Harry Silverman
Photographers: Danny Franks (head), Ames Penfield, Bill Benswanger.News Staff: Dons Becker, Bob Cook, Susan Foster, Estelle Mattes.ReDorters: Bob Abelson, Fred Johnson, Sema Moskovitz Robert H. Smith.J* Bricker Viera Kulamer, Jeanne Fischman, Si Foner, DorothyCub R£P“£ee^-Howard Kutner, Aaron Latkin, Bea Patterson, Ange Pollis, Marjorie 
Powers,' Barry Rowles, Lois Sloan, Midge Teague.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc. College Publishers 
Renresentatives, 420 Madison Ave., New York City.Entered as second class matter under the Act of March 3 1879 AccePtance for
mailing at special rate of postage provided for in the Act of February 28, 1925, 
authorized October 21, 1918. _______________________________________________
Editor’s Armchair
We have two things to discuss this week. First is the pro­
posed amendment to the constitution of Student Council. We’re 
in favor. The reason is obvious: it will promote more efficient 
organization. The details of the plan for instituting this new 
Council are outlined in the news story on page one.
Changing from an election plan of one-a-year to two-a-year 
is rather difficult, but we feel that the method :that the Council 
has worked out is quite fair. For that reason we urge all stu­
dents to attend the all-school assembly to be held on April 8 and 
to vote for :the amendment.
Scotch and Soda Versus Spring Carnival Again
Scotch and Soda club and the Spring Carnival committee 
have split again. We shall present what we believe to be the 
facts of the case, as gleaned from interviews with both parties 
concerned.
The two groups were all set for joint action until the time 
came for the signing of contracts last Friday afternoon. At that 
time several fundamental differences in their objects were made 
clear, and the differences were of such magnitude that no con­
tract was signed.
The" two chief disagreements were over seats and time of 
payment for tickets to the Scotch and Soda show. In the con­
tract drawn up by the Scotch and Soda board, it was specified 
that payment of the $2475 should be made by the Carnival com­
mittee as soon as the tickets were turned over to the committee. 
It was also specified that the seats to be granted to the committee 
would be decided after the contract was signed.
Carnival committee objected to these two provisions on'the 
ground that they did not have the money and could not obtain 
it until they sold their own tickets. Also, the committee felt that 
since they were guaranteeing 2500 seats they should have a choice 
of seats.
Diametrically opposite opinions were held on these two 
questions by the Scotch and Soda board. They needed the money 
immediately, and felt that since the students with Spring Car­
nival tickets were getting to see the two shows for $1.00 per seat 
that there was no reason that th.ose students should have prefer­
ence of seats over other students.
Advantages to the split as seen from Scotch and Soda’s view­
point are that all students will see the show for the same price 
($1.20 per seat), and that neither organization will be affected 
By the financial problems of the other. Spring Carnival com­
mittee can nowT sell their tickets for $6.00, which overcomes one 
of ODK’s objections to the unified plan.
We can see one disadvantage to the plan: Students now pay 
$8.40 instead of $7.50 to see “Rock ’n’ Riot” and to attend both 
dances.
As far as fault-finding goes, we think both parties could have 
exhibited more cooperation and willingness to compromise. Un­
fortunately, personalities played a rather large role in the nego­
tiations.
Something New Has Been Added
This year has added quite a few pages to future editions of 
the Thistle; it has been the birth of more organizations than any 
five previous ones combined. First there was WCIT, the radio 
station which already is well established, then Form, still in the 
embryonic stage, the Film Arts club, the Varsity club, and several 
minor organizations.
Something else has now been added. The first edition of 
Cano, the new literary magazine, went on sale yesterday, and 
while we did not see a copy before press time, all advance reports 
indicate that it measures up well to the other 1946-47 newcomers 
to Carnegie’s extracurricular activities. Congratulations to John 
Stephenson and his staff for creating something good and original.
R. C. Eschenbach.
ON THE CALENDAR
Tuesday, April 1
Call Me Mister, 8:30 p.m. Nixon. 
Varsity club meeting, 12:30 p.m., 
Black Cat.
Wednesday, April 2 
Requiem Mass, 8:15 p.m., Car­
negie Music Hall.
Thursday, April 3 
Spring Flower Show, Phipps 
conservatory.
Tuesday, April 8 
Classes resume.
All-school assembly, 11:30 a.m., 
Little Theatre.
The Hasty Heart, 8:30 p.m., 
Nixon theatre.
Wednesday, April 9 
IRC meeting, 4:30 p.m., 102 
MMCC.
Teknon club, 6:00 p.m., Shady- 
side Presbyterian church.
Thursday, April 10
APO meeting, 4:30 p.m., 229B 
IH.
Announcer Tryouts, 4:30 p.m., 
FA 105.
Saturday, April 11 
College Entrance Board Exami­
nations, 9:00 a.m., Men’s gym.
Monday, April 14 
Cyrano de Bergerac, 8:30 p.m., 
Nixon Theatre.
Tuesday, April 15 
Theresa Priory, 11:30 a.m, MM 
Assembly hall.
Coronado’s Children, 8:30 p.m., 
Little Theatre.
Student Council...
March 26, 1947 
The meeting was called to order at 4:40 p.m.Those absent were: 1 Misses Hallas and Emmel; Messrs. Mclntire and Kohn, Gar­ner and Tritle.COMMITTEE REPORTS Social committeeMiss Lisle moved that the Margaret Morrison freshman class be permitted to use Thistle hall on Wednesday, April 16, from 4:00 until 6:00 for a tea dance for the entire freshman class.Motion carried.Mr. Thurston moved that the Sigma Nu fraternity be permitted to hold a closed dance, off campus, on May 10 from 8 until 1 o’clock.Motion carried.Points and Keys committeeMiss Knee moved that the following keys be awarded to the staff of the Thistle:
Gold-jeweled keys:Louie Deane Miller Betty Jane Baur Gold keys:Lawrence Johnson M. Elizabeth Moses Andrew Sterrett Fred Dolan Ann Richard Silver keys:William Anderson John Bigley George Baur Myra Jane Barry John Biewener Helen Brody Jo Ann Feeney Helen Grimes Mary Lou Land Jane McDonald Vincent Prus Margaret Morrow Clark Sloan Kenneth Welch Margaret Dunlap Louise Richards Ruth Ann Young Motion carried.Publications committeeMr. Cantini reported that FORM needs funds in order to make their “dummy.” However, they cannot submit a budget until the dummy is approved by the faculty. Mr. Dismukes said that Student Council can only loan them the funds for their first dummy until May 1. Mr.
Cantini was instructed to ascertain whether or not the loan could be paid by that date.Budget committeeMr. Dismukes asked that the combined glee clubs be permitted to extend their budget to include the rental of all tux­edos for the concert on Friday, March 28.Motion carried.OLD BUSINESSMr. Dismukes reported that there had been a very satisfactory attendance at the showing of the two Navy movies that Student Council had sponsored.Mr. Christenson moved that the pro­posed amendment to the Student Coun­cil constitution be tabled until a work- ing-plan for carrying out the semester election is found.After a discussion, Mr. Christenson withdrew his motion.Mr. Larsen moved that the following amendment to the Constitution of Stu­dent Council be approved by the Coun­cil:
Article II, Section III shall read:“The term of office for one-half of the members of Council shall be, un­less otherwise noted, from the time of election to Council in the spring until they are succeeded at elections the following spring. The term of office for the other half of the mem­bers of Council shall be, unless other­wise noted, from the time of elec­tions in the fall until they are suc­ceeded the following fall.”In order to be consistent with the amendment, other changes are:Insert in Article II, Section I (c) following the words “ ... as speci­fied in,” the words, “Article II, Sec­tion III, and." The article will then read, “ . ..as specified in Article II, Section III, and in the Bylaws of Student Council.”Insert in Article II, Section II (e) following the words “ . . . SectionI, Section II,” the words, “and in determining the number of represen­tatives to be elected under ArticleII, Section III.” The article will then read, “ . . . Section I, Section II, and in determining the number of representatives to be elected un­der Article II, Section III, and in determining a quorum,” etc.
[Continued on page 4]
Room with a view 
-of 11,000,000 miles!
In this room* telephone circuit spes 
cialists maintain accurate and in-i 
etant control over some 11,400,000 
miles of long distance lines;
Merely by referring to this huge 
diagram they can tell at a glance the 
exact status of telephone circuits 
from Montreal to Mexico City and 
from Havana to Seattle. For, as 
quickly as new lines are added or ex-? 
tended, or as quickly as circuits
reach capacity or again become avail* 
able, the change is recorded on this 
master chart;
Simple, yet effective methods like 
this are important to the smooth and 
efficient operation of the telephone 
industry.
Men who can produce such ideas* 
who can inject enthusiasm and inge­
nuity into their work, find telephony 
a fascinating and rewarding career;
There*» Opportunity and Adventure in Telephony
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM

---------------------------------------------------

Money-Mad Administration Ups Fees 
Charges Now $15,925 Per Semester
the carnegiNEIJTDQN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY I ¦¦¦ M A. MMW ¦ ¦¦ ¦ ¦¦ I
Jk ^ A dHL X ^1TITKSnAY. APRII, 3. 2047
TUESDAY, APRIL 3, 2047
Atoms Strike 
For Freedom
The long-threatened strike of 
Uranium Atom Local No. 532 
was called ?t midnight yesterday- 
after several futile attempts of 
the hierarchy of atoms scientists 
to force the atoms to continue to 
undergo fission.
Said Professor Pew of the 
atomic control board, “If those 
atoms don’t start fissing by noon 
tomorrow I will be forced to grant 
an injunction and hold all atoms 
refusing to fiss in contempt of 
court.”
Said George Mulecule, big 
charge among the striking atoms, 
“We refuse to work as long as the 
atom scientists keep creating new 
radio-aclive elements in order to 
cut down costs of labor. These 
cheaper scources of fission are 
drastically reducing our plane of 
rotation.”
Little have the stubborn atoms 
or the greedy scientists consid­
ered the inconvenience caused the 
poor dirty Pittsburghers. The 
failure of atomobiles made it im­
possible for commuters to pene­
trate the early morning dust dunes 
between their homes and offices, 
and when the molecules operating 
the molleycars called a sympathy 
strike, the entire district was par­
alyzed.
Of course the antiquated QRR 
went on as usual filling the atmo- 
[Continued on page 2]
Dean Announces 
Summer Schedule
Dr. Webster Neutron Jones IV 
has announced that engineering 
students will adhere to the sum­
mer schedules listed at the end 
of this article, or be subject to 
imprisonment in the seventeenth 
sub-basement of Engineering hall 
in the same cell row with Ol’ 
Rump.
It is promised that this will be 
the last summer of required at­
tendance, as based on the study 
of the amount of blood which can 
be squeezed, from a turnip over a 
long period of time.
This policy has been continued 
longer than originally planned 
due to the invention of a new tur­
nip squeezer which smashes the 
component atoms and thus enables 
an increase in efficiency of 900 
percent in the total amount of 
squeezings available.
The summer attendance plan is 
as follows:
[Continued on page 3]
Vets’ Subsistence 
Raised To $67
The Veterans Administration of­
fice announced today that the 
monthly subsistence for veterans 
has been raised to sixty-seven dol­
lars a month, by order of the 132d 
Congress.
This move was entirely unex­
pected by all political leaders, 
since most veterans of World 
War II have been dead half a cen­
tury. It must be realized, how­
ever, that thp unremitting pres­
sure put upon the nation’s 
leaders by the ten remaining 
members of the American Veter­
ans committee was destined to 
have some lasting results.
Due to the time necessary to 
.change all the machines to the 
[Continued on page 3]
Rooms
Applications are now being 
accepted for rooms in More- 
wood Gardens, which will be 
opened for occupancy next 
fall. Girls should file form 
Pi314159 at Dean Noy’s office.
Mourn Death 
Of Old Leader
Today is a day of thankful 
mourning for all true students of 
Carnegie Tech. One hundred 
years ago the great emancipator 
of CIT, Easily Duped Smith, 
passed away.
Many dusty members of the ad­
ministration eternal will recall the 
details of his assassination and 
the brave way he met his end, 
battered with copies of Psychol­
ogy for Executives in the hands 
of the irate unfortunates from his 
classes.
Many Memories
Old Easily Duped left behind a 
great many memories, both re­
gretted and pleasant. Fellow fac­
ulty members miss the military 
discipline he imposed upon them; 
no longer do administrative backs 
stiffen at his crackling commands.
Cy Kosis, one of E.D.’s favorite 
students, now executive-in-charge 
of Dissociation Cesspool No. 2, 
summarized the student’s view­
point: “E. D. was a great guy. One 
of the first to maintain that meth­
ods used one hundred and twenty 
years ago in industry were 
eternally applicable. A man of 
great courage—wore glasses, but 
refused to look through them. 
Know the arch on second floor 
administration? Old E. D. 
straightened up there once — a 
physical giant ...”
Memorial Planned
Last, but not least, it would 
seem appropriate to raise a me­
morial to those hardy and brave 
students who won freedom from 
the despairs of Soc Rel, to live 
happily and wealthily, completely 
ignorant of modern history, eco­
nomics, literature, origins of the 
tachnical age, and human rela­
tions in industry.
Tradition of 22 V2 % Raise Every Five Years»
Brings Expenses To Astronomical Figure
Money, money, money — all 
Bob’s successors got money. The 
administration, with the whole­
hearted approval of the Board of 
Trustees, announced late last night 
that the twenty-first in a series 
of money-making five-year plans 
would go into effect in the fall of 
2047-48.
This announcement followed 
long and careful consideration by 
the powers-that-be in which they 
devoted the entire mid-afternoon 
cocktail hours to examining of all 
possible implications of the plan. 
Follows Doherty Plan
The plan follows precisely that 
outlined by the father of the five- 
year-plan, Dr. Robert E. Doherty, 
when he made his now-historic 
proclamation of 1947. Said the late 
financial wizard, “The differential 
between income and expenses will 
constitute a serious threat to the 
institution unless in the next few 
years new fields can be found in 
which to invest this difference.”
So saying, he promptly raised 
the tuition 22%'%. Five years 
later for precisely the same reason 
he increased the fees another 
22%%.
Uses Experimental Functions
As a consequence of his long 
association with the ingenious Mr. 
Steinmetz as office boy and ex­
pert pencil sharpener, Dr. Doherty 
knew full well the power of ex­
ponential functions. When ap­
plied to money they could turn 
molehills into mountains and 
bankrupt institutions into diamond 
mines.
A man with great foresight, 
wizard Doherty saw, once he was 
able to raise the tuition by 
22%,%, there would be no reason 
why it could not repeated every 
five years. A four-year plan would 
allow every student to graduate 
after experiencing but one tui­
tion rise but, with kind con­
sideration to printers who could 
not pass freshman chemistry, Do­
herty advocated a five-year* break 
between increases.
Determined to see his plan suc­
cessful, the fund-loving Doctor
Forty Name Bands Will Play 
For Greater Spring Carnival
The Spring Carnival chairman 
in a dreamy mood released fol­
lowing story as an April fool’s 
joke. This year’s affair, which 
will be held from April 15 to May 
24, will, of» course, exceed in 
greatness and glory all those pre­
ceding.
It is obvious by inspection that 
the dates selected this year will 
preclude all possibility of any 
final exams. Although there was 
some disappointment ampng the 
students because of this, the ad­
ministration succeeded in rail­
roading through Student Council 
the vote to dispense with the ex­
ams.
Forty Bands
The plans for Carnival itself are 
stupendous, to use an old-fash­
ioned word. Forty of the best 
bands and orchestras in the 
world have been engaged for the 
occasion. The real surprise, how­
ever, is that instead of each one 
playing only one night, as might 
be expected, there will be a rota­
tion system of four an evening.
The orchestras will be located 
in the gymnasium, Thistle hall, 
the new commons building, and 
the five-hundred-foot-square ball 
room which has just replaced 
Margaret Morrison. Students are 
invited to attend as many of the 
dances as possible.
The administration has just an­
nounced that men may get cor­
sages for their girls by simply 
dropping in at the faculty-owned 
and operated gardens and helping 
themselves to as many of the 
orchids as they wish.
Many Events
Among the events scheduled for 
the day are the jet-propelled fiy- 
ing-wing race, the aqua ballet, and 
a special three-hour trip around 
the world. The first of these, the 
jet-propelled flying-wing race, 
will start on the west coast and 
terminate with a dive into the 
upper part of Industries hall, com­
monly known as Administration 
hall.
• The aqua ballet will take plaee 
[Continued on page 2]
He Used These For Handkerchiefs .
vowed he would live to see the 
tuition reach $10,000 a year. But 
when he was finally laid to rest 
in 2010, his mausoleum gaily col­
ored with the spring greenness of 
$10,000 bills, he was still several 
dollars short of his goal.
But, in memory of the high aims 
and ambitions of the old man, the 
trustees and administration mov­
ed to perpetuate his name by 
raising the tuition another 22%%
Atom Synthesizer 
Takes Place Of 
Super-Cyclotron
The giant cyclotron presented to 
CIT just one hundred years ago 
this month by the newly defunct 
Buhl foundation is soon to be 
scrapped to make room for a new 
atomic synthesizer, recently per­
fected by a group of scientists 
from the nuclear research labo­
ratory. Its construction will be 
financed with money from the 
University of Pittsburgh Mission­
ary fund.
It is estimated that the cyclotron 
will bring at least $3.52 minus 
carrying charges.
Thus far, only a few uses have 
been evolved for the revolutionary 
device, but Dr. R. D. Wislon, until 
recently head of the nuclear 
physics department, has stated 
that a selected group of engineers 
will be constantly experimenting 
to develop further the potentiali­
ties of the synthesizer.
Among the possibilities already 
suggested are many which seem 
a little far-fetched at present. 
Foremost among these in the syn­
thesis of meat from its compo­
nents which have been collected 
since 1949 or thereabouts in the 
“Keep Pittsburgh Clean” project. 
Everyone is familiar with the vast 
soot-collecting generators which 
have long been a part of the city 
skyline, but few people are aware 
of these new uses to which it will 
soon be put by CIT’s progressive 
physics department.
Mankindt stands at the thres­
hold of a new era with the com­
pletion of the synthesizer. Wheth­
er or not he will make the best 
use of his new tool, only time 
will tell.
Weaklings !
Men! Are you worried 
about the hair on your chest? 
Do you shiver and shake, not 
because of fear, but because 
of cold?
If so, cut off the top of your 
nearest Soc Rel professor and 
send it to us. No money re­
quired. We’ll send you our 
sympathy.
and dedicating the excess to the 
Doherty memorial scholarship 
fund which would provide for the 
grant of $1 annually to all par­
ticipants in more than seven un­
related student activities.
Supertechnical 
Outlines Life Of 
Proton, Electron
. . . proton electron positron 
neutron deutron: all are dramat­
ically delineated elucidated in an 
illuminated scented three-dimen­
sional article, in the April issue of 
the Carnegie Supertechnical, on 
sale universally all day April 1 
for twenty cents on Earth and 
twenty-five cents on Mars and 
Venus . . .
. . . this article will be of
much interest to hypemucleophy- 
sicists, quantum mechanics, and 
dramats: who have here a fairly 
good excellent hyperb chance to 
learn much about the nothingness 
which composes solidity; and to 
obtain cheaply a fine soporific
Virtue Truth
. . . also included for the 
benefit of those who have preten­
sions to virtue truth is a reprint 
from an article published in the 
Supertechnical of one hundred 
years ago when it was only the 
Technical; this masterpiece is of 
by for Dr. Max Schoen; unknow­
ing founder of the important 
modern religion of Schoenism 
. . . parallel piece is included 
superadded tossed in to explain 
Dr. Schoen’s article for those of 
sub-Einsteinian wit . . .
Artistic Triumph
. . . perhaps the most inter­
esting part of the April Super- 
technical is the cover, a burning 
example of modem art: created 
by an artist who prefers to re­
main anonymous, reproduced at 
enormous school-subsidized ex­
pense for the edification of Car­
negie Tech and Martian Sub-Tech 
students: it is an interpretation of 
a recent and most notorious disas­
ter; the spaceship “University of 
Pittsburgh” gone out of control 
-— because the navigator choked 
up—headed into the sun for an 
incandescent death . . . printed 
on infinitely workable artalloy, 
a substance developed in 2012 by 
the metals research laboratory, it 
gives utterly realistic effects; the 
space is at absolute zero, the sun 
will crisp your fingers if you try 
to touch your copy of it, and the 
song Fight For the Glory of Car­
negie can be heard emanating 
from the spaceship as its crew 
prepares for . . .

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE NEUTRONTUESDAY, APRIL 3, 2047
the carneg^jrfJ'TRQN
OFFICES: Pitt Cyclotron, Forbes and Craig, Convenient 
Televidiphone: SChenley 9131 
After Office Hours: Chief Molecule SC. 9131; Chief Atom SC. 9131
Published every time the administration takes the muzzle off the editor, exceptduring tuition raises.
Chief Molecule..........R. Eschy CombachChief Atom................................Bled Buyers1st Molecule...........................Odd Winkings2nd Molecule........................Fony Carrotts1st Atom............................Badly Needmen
2nd Atom......................................Ivan Faigen1st Neutron................Dubious Bearingsons2nd Neutron........................Crammed Toeses1st Proton..............Hammy McAlabammy2nd Proton....................................Pete Biggut
All the little protons..........................Shill McBane, Housemaid’s Knee, Veering KoolerPlus Ions Birdjamin Oystermin, Rames Inkblotter, Dodo Necker, Sema Rosenbach- Whitman. Fly Sooner, Barren Catskins, Pea Batterson, Roaring Bowels, Fat Tigue Minus Ions: Hairy Goldwoman, Firing Siring. __________________
Represented for universal advertising by Atomic Advertising, Inc., Publishing Rep­
resentatives for Colleges and Carnegie Tech. *Entered as distinctly second class matter under the Act of April 1, 1947. Accept­ance for rocket mailing at an exorbitant rate provided for in the Act of H-5 
Lab authorized by God. __________________________________________
Editor’s Footstool
We are expressing today the feelings of the last hundred 
editors of the Neutron about the general attitude of the Ad­
ministration. The other editors refrained from saying anything 
hoping that the situation would work out all right. It hasn’t.
The time has now come to express our opinion of the 
greediness, the niggardliness, and the inhumanity df the Ad­
ministration of the Carnegie Institute of Technology.
While the rest of the world has followed the road of pro­
gress, Carnegie Tech has followed the “trail” blazed by its 
late beloved president, Dr. Robert Extravagant Doherty. The 
school has made no changes in the physical plant. There is still 
no corridor on the first floor of Engineering hall; there is still 
no light on the fourth floor of the Arts building; it is Still im­
possible to see one end of the hall in Industries hell from the 
other end.
Improving Laboratory Facilities
To us it seems as though at least 22^% of the money the 
school receives from tuition could be spent for new buildings and 
classrooms as well as for laboratory facilities (including H-5). 
Another 22^% should be spent for student rehabilitation (in­
cluding H-5).
We believe that the Administration’s inhumanity to students 
has never been equaled in the history of our nation. When it 
is necessary for students in foreign lands to raise a subscription 
fund for the students at Carnegie Tech, we feel that something 
is amiss.
One hundred years ago, the Administration was planning to 
take over More wood Gardens as a girls’ dormitory. The only 
thing that held up occupation was waiting for the residents of 
the apartments to find adequate housing outside. Today there 
is still one resident who has failed to obtain “adequate housing” 
outside. We hope he soon finds a comfortable residence in the 
nether regions.
Restrictive Dormitory Regulation
Also, women’s dormitory regulations have retrogressed, rath­
er than progressed, since 1947. A girl breathing out of the 
wrong side of her mouth receives two warnings. Three warn­
ings is now sufficient for a girl to be brought before the Dean 
of Women’s Council. One hundred years ago, the regulations were 
kept secret from the men. Today, even the girls are not allowed 
to know what the rules are until they break them. The gripes 
expressed by our predecessor, R. Corey Eschenbach, seem trivial 
to us today. Something must be done about this situation, for 
the girls of Carnegie Tech, as soon as they get away from the 
restrictive campus atmosphere, immediately follow the example 
set by the holders of Professional Promise scholarships. This, 
while great sport, is hardly to be considered moral.
The only portion of the student body which has not suffered 
from the tuition raises is the members of the Scotch and Soda 
club, who, with their yearly margin of $1600, now have a 
working capital of $161,600. Aside from providing food for the 
members of the club, their capital will be used for endowing a 
“Carnival School of Professional Arts.” We believe, as did our 
predecessor, that the club is not trying to give the students as 
much for their money as possible.
Free Cheers for the Administration—the Rats
We must admit that the Administration has solved one stu­
dent problem in the last hundred years—by indirection, but 
nevertheless solving the problem. The large number of rats 
around the campus of earlier days has decreased markedly, due 
chiefly to the lack of food in fraternity and dormitory gar­
bage bins. We are sure that the Administration did not solve the 
problem by intention, but to be fair, we must admit that they 
did get rid of the rats.
The Golden Brown Future
In conclusion, we feel that when better dunghills are built, 
C.I T, will build them.
|t, Eschy Combach,
Off The Calendar
Tuesday, April 3, 2047
Chapel, 11:30 a. m., Dr. Max 
Schoen will speak on the sub­
ject, “Why I and God Have 
Eternal Life.”
Wednesday, April 4, 2047 
IRC meeting, 4:30 p. m., MM 102, 
President Gene Galluses Tal- 
madge III will speak on “The 
Divine Right of Governors.” 
Thursday, April 5, 2047 
APO will do its good deed today. 
Friday, April 6, 2047 
Yak Eggs a la Coo at the Inn. 
Saturday, April 7, 2047 
Chess games vs. the Vulnerable 
Venusites.
Sunday, April 8, 2047 
All 7:30 classes cancelled.
Monday, April 9, 2047 
Reorganization of Neutron staff 
will be completed.
Tuesday, April 10, 2047 
WWSW Soapbox of the Air» 8:00 
p. m., topic—“Should the U. S. 
join the UN?” (United Ne­
bulae).
Atoms Strike
[Continued from page 1 ] 
sphere with dirty dissociated de­
luges of dust.
President N. O. Subsidization 
announced that Carnegie Tech 
would be the only institution in 
the district to have classes, as 
usual. Said President Subsidiza­
tion, “Tech students have walked 
from class to class for generations; 
they, unlike their elevator-riding 
neighbors, are in condition to walk 
any distance.”
There is little hope of settle­
ment. The scientists contend that 
the atoms, having undergone fis­
sion since eternity without being 
dissatisfied, have no reason for 
stopping now.
The uranium atoms, however, 
claim that they have been operat­
ing since eternity without compe­
tition and therefore feel that the 
scientists are violating the rights 
of free electrons.
Henry Wallace IV agrees with 
them.
The scientists are of the opin­
ion that the atoms they are cre­
ating existed long before the 
uranium atoms, therefore the 
uranium atoms have no legitimate 
gripe.
TheP assingP arade
(Reprinted below is an article 
written exactly one century ago 
on the first anniversary of the 
April revolution cf Dr. Rumpty
H. Coo. The article is by that 
great liberal columnist Karl Kap- 
italist Klahr.)
On the fir^t anniversary of 
the April revolution, this col­
umnist, who has many times taken 
up the cudgels in opposition to 
injustice, impelled to reveal the 
fate of one of the greatest men 
he has ever known. Just a few 
hundred yards from where this is 
being written there languishes in 
a dank cell the emaciated form of 
Dr. Rumpty H. Coo (E’31). Chain­
ed to a bench in the seventeenth 
sub-basement of Engineering hall, 
just below the furnace boilers, 
Dr. Rumpty Coo has for more than 
a year endured the tortures of 
Hades without making an outcry. 
(Ed. note: He’s gagged).
Sacrifice For Students 
And for whom has he under­
gone this terrible suffering? For 
you and for me. In trying to im­
prove our lot he ran up against 
some legal snarls last year, name­
ly murder and arson charges, and 
was fitted with a platinum mask 
on his face and consigned to rot in 
a dungeon.
Why have we forgotten Coo? 
Was his factor too low? In the 
eight years preceding his gradu­
ation from Tech in 1931, he rated 
an average factor of $550 per 
school year. Didn’t he take part in 
enough activities? In his junior 
year Rumpty Coo sported so many 
gold keys that the US Mint es­
tablished a branch office here. 
Splendid Record 
Didn’t he do well after gradu­
ation? Coo carried the gospel of 
prohibition repeal to the Tangan­
yika veldts. He founded distil­
leries wherever he trod. The na­
tives so loved him for his bland 
and unassuming extortion that 
they called him “The Great White
Rabbit” and the “Wizard of the 
Voodoo Veldt.”
After a short sojourn among 
the French (at Devil’s Island). Dr. 
Coo next was heard from in the 
vast recesses of the Gobi desert. 
Dr. Coo and his brother John L. 
Coo were after the trade union 
concession among the Gobi yak- 
egg carriers. Before Coo’s effort to 
unionize the natives, the yak- 
carriers had to carry a full load of 
150 versts each day. When Coo 
left in 1945 the daily worker re­
quirement was down to 149.95 
versts per day. But Coo was 
$10,000 richer than his brother 
John L., who had been fined by the 
High Llama’s Court for cracking 
yak eggs at the round instead of 
the sharp end.
Return to Carnegie 
When Dr. Rumpty H. Coo re­
turned to Carnegie Tech last 
April, laden with years and mel­
lowed by his experiences, he was 
met by a committee of school- 
spirited students who begged him 
to help in ridding the school of its 
chicane beggarly attitude. “Boys,” 
said Coo, “let’s eliminate the ad­
ministration.”
Which was done, but not thor­
oughly enough. And although R.
H. Coo was sworn in as fourth 
president of Carnegie Tech and 
remained in office long enough 
to elicit a 12 million dollar grant 
from the Carnegie Foundation, he 
was eventually deposed, and all 
his policies were scrapped. Now 
he is even denied visitors to his 
cell at minus 17 plus 3i. Engineer­
ing hall.
Supporters Left 
There is, however, a group 
which is still loyal to him. Their 
underground activities, aimed at 
his release, are of course illegal, 
but Coo’s Raiders are arming 
themselves. They are gaining 
strength. When the opportune 
moment arrives, Dr. R. H. Coo 
(E’31), like Destry, will ride 
again.
Stupid Council
The meeting was called to order 
at 4:30 p.m.
Those absent were: None. 
Committee Reports 
Points and Keys Committee
Miss Ankle moved that the fol­
lowing keys be awarded: Iridio- 
Platinum with 10-carat diamond 
replica of the Carnegie Tech seal:
Able Bakerson, Editor-in-Chief, 
Carnegie Supertechnical.
Charlie Dog, Business Man., 
Carnegie Supertechnical. 
Silver-Osmium with rubies:
Work Not, Features Ed., Car­
negie Supertechnical.
Sack Chrono, Managing Ed., 
Carnegie Supertechnical.
Lead:
Kathryn K. Glass, Editor-in- 
Chief, Scottie.
Social Committee
Miss Ripp moved that Kappa 
Alpha Theta sorority be permit­
ted to hold an open house on 
April 7, from 1 p.m., to celebrate 
the opening of the first sorority 
•house on campus.
Motion carried.
Elections Committee
Mr. Rover moved that the fol­
lowing elections of the Citcom 
Clan be approved:
Chief Carcheck, John A. Rover.
Vice-Carcheck, John A. Rover.
Chief Transfer, John A. Rover.
Chief Safety Island, John A. 
Rover.
No. 1 Standee, John A. Rover.
Mr. Harraher suggested that 
Citcom Clan appeared to be gov­
erned in a manner not strictly in 
accordance with the fundamental 
principles of American democ­
racy.
Mr. Rover moved that Mr. Har­
raher be required to shut up.
Motion carried.
Mr. Harraher shut up.
Mr. Dahiro moved that he be 
permitted to conduct an investi­
gation of the present state of 
campus politics. He expressed the 
belief that Dorm Council was 
guiding all elections in an uncom­
fortably firm manner.
Mr. Hover naovetf that Mr. Da-
hiro’s motion be stricken from the 
records as ridiculous.
Motion not seconded.
Mr. Rabbit moved that Mr. Da­
hiro be impeached from the Stu­
dent Council as unworthy of the 
name of member thereof.
Motion not seconded.
At this point I’m not quite sure 
of what happened, as I spent the 
remainder of the meeting under 
the table. However, the noises 
which filtered down to me and 
some good rumors indicate that 
what follows is approximately 
true if not absolutely authentic
Mr. Harraher moved that 
Messrs. Rover and Rabbit go 
somewhere.
Motion not seconded.
Mr. Rabbit moved that Student 
Council riot like mad.
Motion carried.
Student Council then rioted.
Killed were: Messrs. Harraher, 
Rabbit, and Rover.
Badly injured was: Mr. Dahiro.
Scared stiff, and this report re­
spectfully submitted by:
QUEEN N. COST, 
Secretary.
Spring Carnival
[Continued from page 1] 
every five minutes on the hour 
in the new swimming pool which 
has been constructed on the Cut. 
The company consists of sixty- 
three beautiful mermaids just ar­
rived from Saturn via the inter- 
cosmic bridge. Since the trip 
around the world has been put in 
for strictly educational purposes, 
there isn’t much to say about it. 
Scotch and Soda
Scotch and Soda will, of course, 
be the highlight of Carnival. 
Known this year as You Mix It, 
We Drink It, the show will last 
for eight hours; two meals (most­
ly liquid) will be served during 
the time.
Students may procure tickets 
for Carnival by presenting their 
resignation cards at the nearest Dean's office. ' 1 *

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, APRIL 3, 2047THE CARNEGIE NEUTRON3
Dr. R. H. Coo Returns To Life, 
Recalls Events Of Century Ago
In a dark, dank dungeon, deep 
in the mouldering bowels of En­
gineering hall, a small group of 
students today came upon the 
rotting, but not yet dead, body of 
the pseudo-legendary Rumpty H. 
Coo.
One hundred and one years ego 
to the day, Dr. Coo was relegated 
to limbo for fomenting revolu­
tion. He was found in a state of 
suspended animation, effected by 
the rarified intellectual atmos­
phere of the campus.
Quickly Restored
Dr. Coo was quickly restored 
to his full faculties by exposure to 
the usual brilliant sunshine of 
Pittsburgh. His first words, as he 
once again set his eyes on the 
fair campus, were, “I see they 
blocked the anti-smoke ordinance 
after all.” But fond memories of 
the days of the frenzied forties 
welled up in him and gushed 
forth with great emotion. 
Remembers Skibo
“Ah, dear old temporary Skibo 
—or was it Skeebo? The fare was 
princely there. The charm of it 
was waiting in line for a class or 
two. Good company, good conver­
sation, and succulent dishes at the 
end of the wait. It built up your 
appetite. . . . What’s that? It’s 
still standing? My God, it’s not a 
temporary structure, it’s eternal!
“Then there were the publica­
tions. The Tartan invariably pub­
lished announcements of future 
meetings and resumes of those 
past. These, of course, were in­
tensely interesting. The Technical 
was very dignified and impressive. 
. . . What? . . . How would I 
know; I never read it . . . only 
looked at the cover and the slick 
paper. Then there was the Scottie, 
which periodically used to ask, 
‘Isn’t it great to have Scottie 
back?’ I’m not sure whether they 
were trying to convince us or 
themselves.
Election Stories
“We had wonderful elections in 
those days. It didn’t make a damn 
bit of difference who was running 
—only whether he was fraternity 
or independent. The frat men 
would have voted for Mortimer 
Snerd if he were on the frat tick­
et; so would the independents, if 
he were one of them. Vaguely, I 
seem to remember a Clover move­
ment; I guess it was an agrarian 
reform of some kind.
“Den of Iniquity”
“There was a notorious den of 
iniquity on campus in those days;
I think the name of it was the 
Federal Palace, or something like 
that. It was so called because of 
its luxurious appointments. The 
government built it after that dec­
ade’s war, so that the veterans 
wouldn’t forget about their glo­
rious days in the service. Every 
night there were interminable 
card gamés played there, and 
many were the destitute children 
and wives in Pittsburgh, whose 
husbands were bankrupted in this 
nefarious hole. The gambling fev­
er was so great among some deni- 
zons of the palace, that they chose 
to live there permanently.”
Dr. Coo was about to continue 
with his reminiscences when a 
violent gasp convulsed his gan­
grenous body, he twitched five 
times and disintegrated into a 
heap of minute delta-shaped par­
ticles.
WCIT Invention To 
Cause Closing Of 
EngineeringSchooI
After laboring unsuccessfully 
for one hundred years, develop­
ments pioneered by radio station 
WCIT caused the closing of the 
College of Engineering.
WCIT’s research staff, which 
has developed an electronic en­
lightener which will replace the 
instructor and the electronic cal­
culator, which will replace the 
electronic computer, which has 
replaced the slide rule, has now 
developed an electronic blunderer 
which will replace the student. Dr. 
Senoj, head of the College of En­
gineering, muttered, “Duz does 
everything.”
The staff of WCIT has also re­
vealed that Skibos will no long­
er have wet feet from the slush 
in winter. In fact, some Techites 
may no longer have feet!
The college radio station has de­
veloped a radio wave strong 
enough to walk on, and it will be 
beamed across the “Cut” on wet 
days. During the testing of this 
had a low factor anyway) disap- 
new device one R. F. Burns (who 
peared when he gingerly stepped 
between a wave-length.
When queried concerning the 
accident, Dr. Eraet, head of the 
electronic engineering depart­
ment, replied, “Do not worry, we 
can remedy that. We will increase 
,the wave-length. I don’t like 
short-legged people anyway.”
Beanery Burps
Here we go again, you stupid 
people. This is the most miserable 
feature of this sad excuse for a 
paper, but a fellow has to start 
somewhere if he wants to be a 
full reporter some day, what with
I.A.C. not worth a darn since J.K. 
O’Hare IX got into power.
I saw the Neutron’s Chief Psy­
chologist this morning and got the
NEW! 
SENSATIONAL! 
Protonic Pen
Writes to the 
MOON 
and Back
Not $15, Not $10 
JUST 25c
Plus two rotten yak eggs
straight dope on the latest ro­
mances. Maybe if you write this 
column long enough, you get to 
interpret stuff in a way which 
makes sense, but it sure seems 
screwy to me at this stage of the 
game.
For example, I read in his re­
port that Elizabeth Beefer and 
O’Joe were just pinned. Now that 
sure as the devil doesn’t make 
sense to me. That Beefer dame 
has a negative I.Q., a personality 
like a Pittsburgh day, and a face 
—well, like a Pittsburgh night. 
She’s the real emotional type, 
too. Just like the space between 
Earth and Mars. What O’Joe sees 
in her is beyond me.
Of cours*e, our buddy Joe is no 
bargain neither. He is a hyper­
thyroid introvert, his A.D.Q. in­
dex is low, his Z.Z. score is even 
lower, and his . . . well, every 
test developed within the last 
hundred years proves that he 
must have gotten that C in foot­
ball technique by you-know- 
what.
Also: Smith and Smith are
ready to roll; Jane Ann and Big 
Bob are like that about each oth­
er; Jean J., a member of the 
Neutron staff and Bill S., also a 
staffer, are getting ready for the 
big jump, and I’ve got a date to­
night! This paper woo which is 
psychologically impossible can gq
eomfwfcere. I’m outl
Millionaires Wanted
Attention, dead million­
aires! Do you want to live to 
eternity, do you want to re­
main alive in thought if not 
in flesh, endow a scholarship! 
Contribute to aid suffering 
starving students and help 
them to gain the happy there­
after! Send all contributions 
to Editor, the Carnegie Neu­
tron, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Accuse Prexy 
Of Spending
In a sudden and dramatic volte- 
face today, the Watch and War­
den committee accused President 
N. O. Subsidization of exorbitant 
recklessness in the spending of 
funds.
Said Mr. Parsimony, head of the 
committee, “President Subsidiza­
tion has rocked CIT to its founda­
tions by his open-handed distribu­
tion of our limited funds. It’s not 
that we are money-mad; the fact 
is, the rocking of the foundations 
endangers various experiments 
that are being conducted here.” 
Coming at this time, Mr. Par­
simony’s statement must grieve 
all students. For it undoubtedly 
means that the huge appropria­
tion recently made for the pur­
pose of installing wastebaskets 
and pencil sharpeners in each 
class room will be cancelled. But 
after all, these fixtures represent 
an unheard-of luxury, which can 
well be done without.
It must be admitted that the 
prodigious liberality of the Ad­
ministration under Dr. Subsidiza­
tion had astounded all collegiate 
circles. No exact information has 
been released, but it is rumored in 
high circles that over $10 of the 
$12,000,000 acquisition has been 
spent. In the light of this rumor, 
the action of the committee is not 
too surprising.
Authorities Plan 
Student Hospital 
To Cut Illness
Good news for all fainting 
Fannies and weak Willies! The 
administration has just announced 
receipt of a gift of sixty thousand 
dollars for the purpose of building 
a hospital on campus. The hospital 
will be located beside the Cut, as 
the health of the students is now 
deemed more important than their 
athletic development.
For a long time the administra­
tion has seen the need for a hos­
pital, but until Noy became grave­
ly ill last week, no definite action 
was taken. The overcrowded con­
ditions of Presbyterian hospital 
made it impossible for the patient 
to receive the attention which he 
required, owing to the fact that 
the recovery rate for men is much 
lower than that for women due to 
the intoxicating effect of the night 
nurses. It was thought that if the 
school could select and supervise 
its own nurses, there would be 
less illness on campus.
The hospital is expected to be 
ready for use by the time of the 
next flu epidemic and will be 
equipped with a special loud­
speaker system for lecture pur­
poses, desks for test purposes, 
and barred windows for deten­
tion purposes. The administration 
extends its wishes for a healthier 
student body.
Summer Session
[Continued from page J]
Students Who
One off the. Atoml
Hubert supertechnical editor 
valued members of tdp maker of 
efficient well-trained men . . 
rains monotonous beat against 
third-floor union windows . . . 
sooty dampness hanging over the 
unused fireplace and invading the 
only silent typewriter . . . please 
try to spel correctly the diction­
ary’s on the desk . . . thirty of 
them were in the room, grouped 
around two of the tables . . . 
plain men, efficient but plain and 
dull . . . but he was different 
... he was efficiency personified 
with tact . . .
Nobody Laughed
“I told the President tonight at 
the meeting” . . . nobody laugh­
ed . . . if he said he did, he did 
. . . “that’s obvious by inspira­
tion” . . . and again nobody
laughed at this oft - repeated 
phrase, if it was they would find 
it, that was what they were there 
for, to follow him . . . upon him 
authority hung easily . . . He
gave orders casually but they 
were never commented upon or 
questioned . . . theirs but to do 
or die, theirs not to wonder why 
. . . “be sure to check the sym­
bol for beryllium copper alloy”
. . . they did . . .
Skibo at 11:30 . . . sectional 
lines . . . students crowding into 
small knots of gray, green, or red 
jackets, contrasting hues upon 
their caps classifying them, alpha 
beta gamma epsilon, intelligence 
beauty personality dullness . . . 
hurrying figures up and down the 
room . . . hubert going from one 
table to another, the line is cross­
ed .. . who’s that? . . . that 
remark marks her as a freshmen 
. . . isn’t he good-looking, I’m 
mad about him, think I’ll fall in 
love with him this week . . -. 
did he say hello to you, gee . . . 
again a freshman was talking. 
Curly Brown Hair
curly brown hair, marred from 
glassy smoothness by comb stripes 
drawn straight back, but even 
tonic cannot hide the inherent 
curliness . . . blue eyes whose 
frankness makes even the false 
seem true and believable . . .
a square jaw that shows determi­
nation, a will that is strong, and 
a temper with a speed of collu­
sion and a length of a micromilli­
meter . . .
Mediocre Stories
Arma Virumque , . . Latin
Physicist Quits 
As Theories Fail
The US Spaceship “Hyperdrive” 
landed on planet 3 of the Sirius 
system this morning, after mak­
ing the eight light-year journey in 
150 days, according to a report re­
ceived from the Disassociated 
Televisorphoto news service.
This incredible flight involved 
exceeding the speed of light by a 
large factor, a feat that became 
possible only last week by the 
perfection of the Hyperdrive, after 
which the ship is named.
Professor R. D. Wislon, head of 
the department of nuclear physics, 
offered his resignation ten minutes 
after the report was received, hav­
ing published a paper exactly one 
month ago mathematically prov­
ing that it was impossible to ex­
ceed the speed of light.
The resignation was promptly 
accepted.
Will Attend 2047 
Are Now* Summer**
Freshman (1) 1, 2, 3, 4
Freshman (2) 1, 2, 3, 4
Freshman (3) 1, 2, 3, 4,
Freshman (4) 1, 2, 3, 4
Freshman (5) 1, 2, 3, 4
**1. Atomic engineers 3.
2. Cyclotronic engineers 4.
(*) Sophomores, juniors, and seniors have become extinct and
w4U not 1?e u§tec* until the freemen (5)-quality,
Will Not Attend 
Summer
Soc. Rel. Eng. 
Soc. Rel. Eng. 
Soc. Rel. Eng. 
Soc. Rel. Eng. 
Soc. Rel. Eng. 
Neutronic engineers 
Dohertyronic engineers
scholar . . . title-chooser . . . 
responsibility . . . trust not al­
ways honor . . . hours over a 
drawing board . . . hours read­
ing stories, mediocre stories . . . 
and with this practice a primitive 
sense of patience developing.
The house . . . pictures lining 
the walls, slide rules criss-cross­
ing on magazine stacks, galleys on 
the bed . . . frat brothers I listen­
ing attentively to his ever-chang­
ing voice . . . I’ve got to under­
stand, got to understand, got to 
understand, each of them thought 
. . . he’ll think I’m stupid,
mustn’t let him think I don’t un­
derstand . . . mustn’t . . .
mustn’t . . .
“I’m Not Listening”
Hubert thinking . . . I’m not 
even listening to myself . . . but 
they’ll catch me if I go off thhe 
subject . . . what tie shall I
wear with the blue suit . . .
wonder if I should tell them what 
the president said . . . wonder if 
they see what I’m saying is ob­
vious by inspection . . . wonder 
when I’ll ever get my file in qr- 
der . . . wonder if I’ll ever get 
the bug out of the beryllium cop­
per alloy wonder if I’ll wonder if 
wonder wonder wonder . . .
S. E. Renies
Initial Issue Of 
Form Magazine 
To Go On Sale
The combined staffs of the 
PLAID, Tartan, Scottie and This­
tle have announced that the new 
Fine Arts publication, Form, will 
be on sale in Skibo next week. 
The efforts of these publications 
were appreciated in getting the 
new magazine out. The Technical 
staff also helped.
The editors have stated that 
the chief impediment to earlier 
issue was the aim of the staff to 
keep up with modern art. It was 
extremely difficult to publish the 
first edition because, as soon as an 
article was finished, it would be 
out of date.
The feature article is a survey 
of conditions in Glocca Morra, 
written by an expedition of 
P&D’s, dramats and musicians 
who investigated the quaint cus­
toms of these pre-liberal people.
Needed remodeling on the cam­
pus is the subject of the article of 
the architecture department. The 
author, Lloyd Frank (I’m always) 
Right, suggests that the FPHA 
should be torn down; one hun­
dred years as a men’s dormitory 
is too much.
The cost of the magazine will 
be a mere fifty dollars, the art 
students having planned that the 
first edition should be automat­
ically rare. The exact day on 
which Form will be offered can­
not be given out until the copy 
is received from the printers.
(Editor’s Note: Sale of Form will 
be delayed a few more weeks due 
to a wreck of the rocket which 
was bringing the copy.)
Subsistence Upped
[Continued from page I] 
new figures, the increase will not 
be effective for at least five more 
years. Nevertheless, great praise 
for the lawmakers’ action was 
heard on all sides.
“This will make it possible for 
me to buy two more double-fission 
atomic highballs at the Greeks 
each month from now on,” reports 
a member of the class of *48 
(1946) who has flunked Soc Rel 
so often that he is now a perma­
nent fixture of the school. He owes 
his long existence to the liquor 
at the aforementioned habitat, and 
the VA has never been able to 
contact him to drop his name from 
the rolls.
There was no comment from any 
other members of the flecea9&£
post-wsr §t\}4®ht t?0dy.

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE NEUTRONTUESDAY, APRIL 3, 2047
Tartans Out-Chessed By Martian Mites
Winless Streak Maintained; 
Mars Emerges Triumphant, 10-0
The first edition of the Terrible 
Titanic Neutron Chesties to take 
the table since the new century 
began, made its entrance into col­
legiate circles inauspiciously as 
it got itself whipped one time by 
the double-quintet from Mars U.
Continuing in the usual post- 
Steffens tradition, the Strapless 
Skibos failed to tally a single 
point and bowed by a score of 10-
0 (in case anyone is interested). 
The loss gave the team a record 
of 0 and 1 for the season and ran 
their losing streak to 106 straight, 
including the 105 they lost before 
discontinuing operations in the 
fall of 1985 because of the im­
pending financial crisis at the 
school.
A point of interest is that the 
Skibo aggregation is made up of 
women this year as the adminis­
tration has found it impossible to 
support a subsidized men’s team 
with the money available in the 
Doherty Memorial Fund. This 
fund carries the stipulation that 
it is to be used only when a man 
has an I. Q. of 302 and is on the 
All-State Chess Team.
The subsidized Nomads from 
our neighboring planet displayed 
a magnificent knowledge of the 
game as they held the Tartan 
Chesties in check throughout the 
match.
The first period (of 28 days) 
started when Capt. Jenny Low 
Price opened the scoring as she 
made a pawn (I’ll bet the pawn 
was surprised) capture an enemy 
rook. The battle raged back and 
forth as the two teams vied for 
position. Soon the Martians came 
to the fore when Viera Kulamer 
made a mistake and allowed a 
Martian Bishop to take out the 
Neutron Queen (all of which 
P.O.’d the Neutron King). The 
first period ended with a sigh of 
relief by the Queen, as it had 
been expected for some time.
In the opening hours of the sec­
ond stanza, fifth-stringer, young 
June Falcon (32, that is) broke in­
to the line-up when Capt. Price 
was injured by a Knight as she 
attempted to assault the Martian 
Knight from the rear.
The Wee One immediately made 
herself conspicuous as she pawned 
two tired Knights for an effer­
vescent Bishop. After redeeming 
her pawn ticket, she took off like 
a B. A. B. after the Martian king 
and rooked him into a castle.
The next sentence has been 
censored. At this point, the Men 
from Mars, led by Orson Welles, 
led by a tally of 5-0, due to their 
superior Gremlin brainpower. The 
half ended with the count the
same and the Neutron girls fight­
ing for their very virtue.
An atomic avalanche, which ren­
dered the Martians completely 
helpless at the onset of the third 
period (What? So soon?) gave 
the Kanrichites the upper hand. 
The lower hand was engaged in 
moral combat. At this point, the 
Editor decided to draw the line
--------------------. The Pride and Joy
of Flatbush, Liz Kept tart lost the 
match, among other things, when 
she pawned her king and lit out 
after a horse.
Thus ends our sad saga of the 
escapades of the woeful Neutron 
team. After the match, the girls 
put their Maidenforms in their 
dufflebags and flew back to Pitts­
burgh via carrier pigeon.
Dingilhoe Terrors 
Lose As Usual
Last Saturday marks the 879,- 
654th consecutive loss for the Tech 
Eleven. During the early part of 
the game, the Neutrons were so 
far ahead that the Administration 
was ready to resign in fear of a 
Neutron victory. But in true neu­
tron spirit, the team came through 
with some terrific losses in the 
last fifth and managed to get be­
hind and stay behind for the re­
mainder of the game.
Among the highlights of the 
game was the spectacular 10,000- 
mile loss of “Flash” Kazkazkazski. 
After receiving the nebulae on 
the neutron 278,000 mile line, 
“Kaz” climbed another 29,000 
miles where he crashed into his 
interference and started across 
the scrimmage line. He was im­
mediately met by an onslaught of 
mites from Mars and thrown for 
a 10,000 mile loss.
This was the longest loss of the 
game and due credit should be 
given to “Kaz” for his slow think­
ing and magnificent fumbling. 
Kaz, however gives much credit 
to his team-mates. In a statement 
to the press he said, “If it wazn’t 
fer dem bums I would have won 
da game.”
An exceptionally good turnout 
exemplified the prevailing school 
spirit. In spite of repeated warn­
ings a two-student cheering sec­
tion made the 187 light-year trip 
with the team and the “Killmee” 
band. The two students will be 
reprimanded by the usual two- 
month social suspension from the 
“Greeks.”
ATTENTION ATI. 
JUNIOR BIRDMEN!
Rocket Powered Pogo-S ticks Just Arrived.
• A Few practices and you too can reach the 
Moon.
• Excellent for getting into the third floor 
of Boss Hall.
(Not so good for getting out) 
Send only 16000 Rubles and any two scalps 
from your Soc Rel professors.
Sororities Have 
Jack Contest
The W.A.A. (We’re All Ama­
zons), succumbing to the malnu­
trition now prevalent on campus, 
has announced that the plans for 
a vigorous basketball season have 
been abandoned in favor of an 
in|tersorority jack contest. The
winners of this contest will be the 
guests» of the W.A.A. board at a 
playday to be held for all college 
men in the Pittsburgh area.
The playday was originally 
planned for high-school girls, but, 
as Miss Christine Kando, head of 
the women’s physical education 
department, so aptly puts it, “As 
long as our girls are wakened, 
they might as well have some big, 
handsome men around to take ad­
vantage of the situation.”
Entrants Wanted
Sororities desiring to enter the 
competition must submit a com­
plete list of their jack team stat­
ing age, height, weight, and tele­
phone number of each member 
along with action shots of the 
group suitable for posting in fra­
ternity houses.
Judge for the contest will be 
Dr. Norman Daaah, who wrote 
his doctorate thesis on the evolu­
tion of the game of jacks from 
prehistoric times until this en­
lightened age. Dr. Daaah visited 
the site of the excavation of Pithe­
canthropus Erectus and found un­
deniable fossil remains of a jack 
near the skull of that famous gen­
tleman. Obviously he was engaged 
in the sport when he met his 
death.
Dr. Daaah has officiated at such 
matches many times in the past, 
and his subtle wit and close deci­
sions add sparkle to the exciting 
game.
Suitable Chaperonage
Also on hand at the elimination 
will be Dean Noy, to make sure 
that all teams are suitably attired 
and to stop the festivities in time 
for the girls to be back at the dor­
mitories at a decent hour.
The president of Panhellenic 
Council will be present to discour­
age any illegal rushing.
Buy Venus Girdles
with the exclusive 
Four-dimensional Stretch
Model H-5
Specially designed for college chess players 
22i% Stretch Guaranteed in all
4 Dimensions 
NO OTHER girdle can say this
Only 20 Versts — up, down, sideways, 
and LINEARLY WITH TIME
Made by VENUS DIAPER and 
GIRDLE COMPANY
___ _ s
Intercosmic Station V-903 
427 Moral Path

---------------------------------------------------

* * THE CARNEGIE PLAID * *
Page Edited by Evening School Students of Carnegie Institute of Technology
TUESDAY, APRIL 1, 1947 THE CARNEGIE TARTAN 3
Dr. T. H. Daugherty, CIT Grad, 
To Speak At Engineer’s Banquet
Hey Clem! Get over here and 
help me with this column . . . 
C’mon, she won’t get stale. Get 
over here! . . . Now that you 
are here, we can get down to bus­
iness . . .
Clem reporting back after a 
week’s leave from the paper. I 
was behind the crystal ball last 
week and didn’t have time for this 
one ...
Our little friend, Tommy, not 
here tonight, has been wearing 
some of those new-fangled casings 
for his feet. Now I know how he 
got a date for the last dance! 
Wonder if that would work for 
me? . . .
Conversation . . . “What is a 
preposition? . . . “How should I 
know, I’m just as ignorant as you 
are!” And he really means it . . .
Some of our local workers that 
were helping to decorate the hall 
for the last dance must have 
thought more of their research 
work than of the decorations. The 
main question under discussion 
was “Do you close your eyes?” 
and from all indications it was 
directed at Elsie ... I don’t be­
lieve they meant when she goes 
to sleep.
I finally made a hundred irf my 
quizzes. I had two tonight and got 
fifty in each.
Say! .Did you see the herd of 
people Gwen Pfabe and John­
nie brought to the dance last Sat­
urday, and did you notice how 
much fun they had? . . . We 
hope Johnnie can persuade Gwen 
to attend the scheduled swimming 
party; it would be quite a thing 
to see . . .
Whether Bob Commack was 
really groovy or whether he was 
sagging under the terrific load of 
his studies is not certain, but the 
fact remains that his eye had a 
terrific collision with his date’s 
nose during one of the faster 
struggles at the St. Patrick’s Day 
Dance.
If you want to see a trained 
flea circus, come to the PLAID 
on Friday evenings. Tickets are 
2c per person. The circus features 
“Geòrgie and his Pets” . . .
Physics II lectures will proba­
bly have large turnouts for th« 
rest of the semester. Due to the 
lack of attendance, a quiz is giv­
en every period which affects the 
final grade. In the future, it will 
be difficut to find a seat . . .
Well, friends, your ol’ friend 
Clem must return to his littfe 
bundle of joy . . . Goodnight!
Fashion Show
[Continued from page 1] 
as Queen of Spring Carnival, with 
the remaining six for her Court 
of Honor. Three of the judges are 
from downtown department 
stores: Miss Francine Blum of 
Gimbel’s, Miss Reamer of Kauf­
man’s, and Mrs. Stewart of 
Horne’s. The judging staff will be 
completed with two CIT faculty 
members.
The Carnegie Plaid
Editor Betty Ashcraft News Editor Norman Martello Associate Editors Anne Shack Cecille Zellner Page edited by Evening School students 
of Carnegie Institute of Technology. All views or opinions expressed in editorial column are not necessarily endorsed by 
the Editorial Board of the Day School 
staff.StaffLou Adams Rosemary EcklesGeorge Bogovich Charles GerdingElsie Capelli Frank MihelicThomas Cuscino Albert SnowdenJohn Vranic Catherine RomanoffElizabeth Lang -----
Handbook Will Be 
Distributed During 
Fall Registration
The Carnegie Handbook will be 
presented to evening students dur­
ing registration for the fall se­
mester of 1947. Although it was 
the intention of Student Council 
to release this handbook for the 
academic year 1946-47, many ob­
stacles were encountered, making 
this impossible. Most of the dif­
ficulty was brought about by the 
shortage of paper, the rapidly 
soaring prices of essential ma­
terial, and the many unpredicted 
strikes.
To conform with 1947 activities, 
changes in the academic and social 
calendars will be made in the 
form of a supplementary sheet 
inserted in the handbook.
The handbook, which has a 
green pebbled grain cover with 
the embossed gold Carnegie “C”, 
contains pertinent information 
relative to the Evening School 
Constitution, Evening Student 
Council, fraternities, and the aca­
demic and social calendars.
thec arngi NEiiiI
Andrew Carnegie, because of his 
humble birth, did not inherit the 
privilege of using any recognized 
and registered plaid. To meet his 
needs he had an Edinburgh mak­
er of tartans design one for him. 
This design has been used on the 
campus whenever possible, but 
the Cameron of Erracht tartan 
which most nearly matches the 
Carnegie plaid has been more fre­
quently employed, as this has al­
ways been readably obtainable on 
the American market, whereas the 
Carnegie plaid has often been dif­
ficult to secure.
The idea originated with Mrs. 
Hamerschlag, wife of the first 
president, of assigning one of the 
four colors of the plaid to each 
of the four schools which original­
ly made up the institution: blue 
for Engineering, red for Arts, 
green for Industries, and yellow 
for the Women’s school.
Fine Arts Theatre
The Theatre, housed in the Col­
lege of Fine Arts, accommodates 
392 and temporary seating may 
swell the capacity to 425. Empty 
seats are a novelty at any time 
but unknown at Shakespearean 
productions. *
The students of the department 
of drama this year are drawn from 
twenty-one states (exclusive of 
Pennsylvania) as well as Canada 
and the Panama Canal Zone. Six­
ty-two percent of the students 
come from other states other than 
Pennsylvania. The department 
has presented over five hundred 
productions since its opening in 
1914. There are approximately 
eight thousand costumes in the 
costume department.
Large Endowment
Whereas Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, with an endowment 
of more than $27,000,000, ranks 
sixteenth among American and 
Canadian colleges and universi­
ties, it ranks seventh in the 
amount of endowment per stu­
dent, being exceeded only by 
Harvard, Yale, University of 
Rochester, Vanderbilt, Duke and
EXPERT REPAIRS
RADIOS, PHONOGRAPHS, 
APPLIANCES
Sales and Service
LEWIS RADIO 
ELECTRIC CO.
1123 OAKLAND AVE. HA. 4211
Bring Your Radio Problems 
To Us
tt YEARS EXPERIENCE
At Your
Address Changes
Mr. McKelway has request­
ed that any student who has 
changed his address inform 
the registrar^ office of this 
change as soon as possible.
Play By Student 
Next Presentation
The department of drama an­
nounces the production of Cor­
onado’s Children by John Witcher 
Young, CIT dramatic student. This 
is the first play written by a stu­
dent to be presented this year.
The first performance will be 
given Tuesday, April 15, and the 
last Wednesday, April 23, exclud­
ing Friday and Saturday evenings.
Young has directed several stu­
dent productions during the past 
year, notably a private showing 
of Ibsen’s Ghosts. He is working 
for his master’s degree in dra­
matics and plans on the theatre as 
his career.
Mary Morris will direct the pro­
duction.
Massachusetts Institute of Tech­
nology.
The first bachelor degrees were 
conferred in 1912 and at the same 
time the first advanced program 
was announced. It was an evening 
course in commercial engineer­
ing, credited with being the first 
graduate engineering curriculum 
on a part-time basis offered in 
this country. The first Master’s de­
gree was conferred in 1914. In 
1920 the first earned doctorate was 
granted to a Chinese student. In 
1925 there were 25 graduate stu­
dents registered, today there are 
248.
Bureau of Placements
Since the organization of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology 
in 1905, its employment and per­
sonnel activities have been cen­
tralized in one office making this 
one of the first colleges to do so. 
The Bureau of Placements is one 
of the few1 in the country having 
a complete personnel information 
file concerning each alumnus.
Over 600 industrial firms con­
tact the Bureau yearly to employ 
seniors and alumni. Approximate­
ly 150 of these firms send repre­
sentatives to the campus to inter­
view prospective employees, and 
over 200 school districts and col­
leges recruit teachers from the 
Bureau.
¦----------------------------------------------
RODGER'S
DAIRY
Try OurHAMBURGERS
Made with 100% Pure Beef
U. S. Government Inspected
LARGE MILK SHAKES
MADE WITH PURE WHOLI 
MILK
RODGER'S
DAIRY STORES
3905' FORBES STREET 
Near Boquet
4619 CENTER AVENUE 
Near Craig
Other Stores Downtown
Dr. Thomas Hill Daugherty, CIT 
graduate, will speak on “Impres­
sions of War Tom China” at the 
Engineers Banquet, to be held at 
Hotel Fort Pitt on the evening of 
April 12.
Dr. Daugherty’s undergraduate 
work in chemical engineering was 
completed here in 1929 when he 
was granted a B.S. degree in 
chemical engineering. Following 
his graduation he enrolled at the 
University of Pittsburgh and 
worked for a doctorate in chem­
istry under the late Dr. Hjort.
After receiving his doctor’s de­
gree in chemistry in 1934, he 
worked for Hall Laboratories, 
Inc., supervising research work 
on industrial water conditioning 
problems. His work with Hall 
Laboratories continued until 
June, 1941, when he was called 
into the armed services.
The first step in his military 
career was at Massachusetts Insti­
tute of Technology, where, as a 
captain, he worked in the Chem­
ical Warfare service development 
laboratory. From 1941 until 1944 
he served as chief, Chemical De­
velopment division.
In 1944 he was transferred to 
the Office of Strategic Services
and, after completing his guerilla 
training, was sent to the Far East 
where he served as chief, Research 
and Development branch, O.S.S., 
until the end of the war.
He was discharged on May 9, 
1946, after five year’s service in 
the army, and became associated 
with Calgon, Inc., a subsidiary of 
Hagan Corp., where he is employ­
ed at present as assistant to the 
Director of Research.
Good Time Planne 
For Men’s Banquet
The time is getting short to ob­
tain tickets for the engineer’s 
banquet. There are a large number 
of door prizes and souvenirs which 
will be distributed to all who at­
tend.
As in former years, a full course 
dinner will be served; interesting 
speakers will be on hand, and last 
but not least, Miss Peg Lanagan 
will have a floor show which will 
be well worth while. Tickets are 
on sale at Mr. McKelway’s office 
IH 132A, or from members of the 
PLAID staff. The price is $3.75 per 
person. Come one, come all, and 
have a good time!
Lhe "Wing-Tipped” Brogue is 
back . .. and Freeman has 
spared nothing to make them the most beautifully 
designed footwear a man could ask for. 
Luxurious, mellow calfskin . . . tanned to 
withstand wear and weather . . . 
looks like "Brand New” after every shine.
Try a pair and you’ll swear 
they’re the grandest shoe*buy 
vou’ve ever made.
$1195
Freeman Shoe Store
Jenkins ArcadePittsburgh

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTÁNTUESDAY, APRIL 1, 1947
Scotch and Soda Sitati
With less than a month to go 
until dress rehearsal and opening 
night at the Music Hall, the Rock 
’n’ Rioters have shifted their ef­
forts into high gear. Each day now 
is the scene of frenzied activity, 
with every part of the production 
staff working at full capacity.
While the dancing and singing 
choruses continued their frequent 
rehearsals, director Carra and his 
assistant A1 Checco began to put 
the dramatic cast through its 
paces. With a replenished string 
section, the orchestra resumed its 
semi-weekly practice sessions, and 
at the same time the technical staff 
under Bob Parks attacked all of 
the many phases of its task.
At this point the main burden of 
the production rests on the tech­
nical staff. Designs have to be
Student Council
[Continued, from page 2]
Change Article II, Section IV (b) to read as follows:“The President of Council shall be elected from any school and any class by the combined old and new Councils. The representative elected President shall thereafter vote only in case of a tie. The runner up in this election shall be Vice-President. To be eligible to hold the office of President or Vice President, a repre­sentative must have served as a rep­resentative for one semester on Coun­cil immediately preceding election to President or Vice-President.Change Article II, Section IV (c) to read as follows:“The Secretary shall be elected in the spring by the old Council from the assistants of that year two weeks before the general elections.”In Article II, Section V (a) delete “until the new Council organizes in the spring” and add in its place, “During his term in office as Presi­dent.” The article will then read,“ ... be responsible for all records of the Council during his term in of­fice as President.”The following changes are neces­sary in the Student Council Bylaws in order that they be consistent with the amendment to the Constitution: Revise Article I, Section 5 of the Bylaws to read:The elections to Council of all vot­ing and non-voting representatives shall be as follows: one-half of the Council representatives shall be elect­ed in the spring on a date to be set by Council to serve until Council elections are held the following spring. The number to be elected in the spring shall be the incumbent members of Council divided by two, except as noted in Article II, Section II (b) of the Council Constitution. The other half of the Council mem­bers to be elected or part thereof according to the odd or even number of Council members to be succeeded, shall be elected in the fall at a date to be set by Council to serve until Council elections the following fall. Under Article II, Section I, Part I: Delete “fall term” and add “each semester;” the article will then read, "... at the beginning of each semester,” etc.Motion carried.Mr. Nutter instructed Mr. Lee and his committee to have a method by which we can elect the members for Student Council for next semester ready to pre­sent at the next meeting.NEW BUSINESSMr. Yorkin moved that we support a drive for the Blood Donor unit of the Red Cross. Mr. Nutter appointed the fol­lowing committee to work on this project: Mr. O’Hare, chairman Miss Knott Mr. Larsen Mr. Johnson Motion carried.The meeting adjourned at 5:55 p.m.Respectfully submitted,Jean Marie Price,Secretary.
made, and materials bought for 
the costumes. June Shannon, head 
costumiere, has already started 
her shopping after long confer­
ences with A1 Lehman and Louis 
Knaack, costume designers.
Geonge Stupakis is practically 
memorizing the catalogues of 
lighting equipment distributors, 
Bill Ryan is completing his prop 
list, and Jim Dreier, head car­
penter, is touring the lumber 
y&rds.
The biggest job of all is in the 
capable hands of George Corrin 
and A1 Heshong, the S&S stage 
designers. They must transform 
the Music Hall platform into a 
regular theatre stage, with re­
volving parts, proscenium, light 
bridge, and the other all-import­
ant parts.
Tickets Sold
[Continued from page 3] 
dents from $1.80 to $1.20. This 
insures a uniform rate for all stu­
dents.
Both organizations will place 
their tickets on sale immediately 
after the Easter recess at booths 
set up in Skibo. The reserved 
seats for Scotch and Soda will be 
sold on a first-come-first-served 
basis, first for the student per­
formance on Thursday, May 1. If 
the demand exceeds the seats 
available for that night, tickets for 
Wednesday night will be placed 
on sale at the same special rate 
of $1.20.
Let's go to
ISALY'S
Milk Shakes 
Big Ice Cream Cones 
Klondikes 
Tasfy Lunches
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill
3714 Forbes Street. Oakland
Main Plant:
3380 Boulevard ef tbe Allies
Quality Cleaning - 3-Hour
WE OPERATE OUR OWN PLANT
Try Our Good Laundry Service
CAMPUS CLEANERS
4609 Forbes St. MUseum 1288
THE CHURCH OF THE REDEEMER
(Episcopal)
5700 Forbes St., Pittsburgh, Pa.—Sunday Services
Holy Communion-8 A.M.; Morning Prayer-11 A.M.
CANTERBURY CLUB Luncheons as usual at Carnegie Inn 
every Thursday, 11:30—1:30.
REV. HUGH S. CLARK, Chaplain.
^TpHE fame of the Parker “51” has broad 
JL dimensions. Every language, every 
continent knows this fine pen. Pride in its 
ownership is shared in every walk of life.
Surveys both here and abroad substan­
tiate these facts. American pen dealers, for 
example, recently named Parker the most- 
wanted pen—rating it ahead of all other 
well-known makes combined. (Score: 72.7% 
for Parker; 27.3% for all others.)
Fortunately, more 51*s are now being 
shipped. So see your dealer soon.
Here is a pen of simple beauty. Every 
detail reflects unhurried craftsmanship— 
working to highest precision standards.
Its unique point has no moving parts to 
clog or fail. It starts promptly. Writes 
smoothly and with pressureless touch.
The precision-fit cap slips on—locks 
without twisting. Within the tapered shaft, 
the 51’s filler is safely concealed.
This pen alone is designed for satisfac­
tory use with Parker “51” Ink that dries as 
it writes! (It can also use ordinary ink.)
See the “51” today. Colors: Black, Blue 
Cedar, Dove Gray. $12.50; $15.00. Pen­
cils, $5.00; $7.50. Sets, $17.50 to $80.00. 
Vacumatic Pens, $8.75. Pencils, $4.00. 
The Parker Pen Company, Janesville, 
Wisconsin and Toronto, Canada.
WE USE DUPONT CLEANING FLUID
Students Vote
[Continued from page I] 
elections for Student Council rep­
resentatives will be held on Tues­
day, April 22. However, the trans­
ition plan developed by the Coun­
cil must also be approved by the 
Executive Board. This plan pro­
vides that the members elected 
to Council at the last election for 
one semester are to serve in­
stead for two semesters.
Therefore, with two-thirds of 
Council representatives leaving 
because of graduation or expira­
tion of term of office, and one- 
third being held over, more than 
one-half of the stipulated number 
to be elected to Council under the 
amendment will have to be elect­
ed this spring — some to serve 
until January 1948, and the rest 
to serve until May 1948. Of the 27 
representatives to be elected on 
April 22, 17 will be elected to 
serve two semesters, plus two as­
sistant secretaries from Margaret 
Morrison, whose term of office is 
automatically two semesters. Eight 
will serve until January 1948. The 
representatives who will serve for 
two semesters will be the top- 
ranking 17 of the 25 elected ex­
cluding the two secretaries.
Fashion Show
[Continued from page 1] 
will see a grey and white spec­
tator dress, a black and white 
sun-back dress with black poplin 
jacket, yellow poplin suit and a 
cool blue and white seersucker 
suit. Joanne Hipp will be fitted 
for the occasion with an outstand­
ing town cotton suit of blue and 
white check.
In “Boy and Girl Step out To­
gether,” date clothes in bold 
stripes, bandstand prints, border 
print piques, and white birdseye 
pique with gold buttons will steal 
any date’s heart away. June Has­
kell will be a “knock-out in her 
grey chambrey dress with gold 
sequin-studded peplum.
Romance will be aglowing in 
“Moonlight Glows on Cotton” 
with a ballet-length candy-striped 
blue, pink, and yellow chintz for­
mal, a white - and - green - tissue 
gingham gown, a white formal 
with splashing red zinnia accents, 
and a black net formal with a 
pink evening wrap. Wanda For­
sythe will strike a romantic pose 
in a luscious, crisp white eyelet 
pique.
“Romance Has Flowered” will 
climax the show with an all-white 
wedding party. Miss Hilma Seay 
of the Cotton Textile Institute and 
her attendents will wear filmy, 
white organdy gowns with lace 
trim.
Printers Visit 
Eastern Cities
Thirty-five seniors and graduate 
students of the printing depart­
ment left last Sunday on an ex­
tended field trip of printing es­
tablishments in Washington, D. 
C., Philadelphia, and New York 
city. The purpose of the trip is to 
give the students a first-hand view 
of the modern methods, practices, 
processes, and equipment which 
have been developed in the last 
few years.
The group, under the supervi­
sion of Mr. Stanley Hlasta, assist­
ant professor of printing, left 
Sunday morning in private cars 
to spend Monday in Washington, 
Tuesday in Philadelphia, and the 
remainder of the six-day trip in 
New York.
The party includes a number 
of students from the New York 
area who will remain there for 
the Easter holiday.
Field trips to outstanding print­
ing plants have always been a fea­
ture of the curriculum in printing 
plant management. E>ue to travel 
and other restrictions, however, 
they were discontinued during the 
war.
INFORMATION. PLEASB" 
Uittn In every Wednesday night 
¡0:30 EST» CBS, coatl-io-coattParLe/51'
ES MM« rut
IN THE'HAND’OF 
ARTUR RUBINSTEIN
SL.tke world’s
most wanted pen
Worlds mous concert pianist 
iwhose i .opln Semata Album for MCA Victor Records Is winning 
a y/idt acclaim.
