R. O. T. C.FRIDAY
SMOKER
UNION8:30 P. M.
WED. APRIL 25
KING LEAR 
LITTLE THEATRE 8:30
VOL. XXII NO. 33CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, APRIL 24, 1928
FINAL PLANS FOR 
NINTH ANNUAL C. W. 
REACH COMPLETION;
C. W. Chairman
I
Dates Announced For Sale of 
Admittance Tags in the 
Several School Corridors
VODVIL OFFICIALLY 
STARTS CALENDAR
Novel Features This Year In­
clude “Surprise” Girls’ Sweep­
stakes
All arrangements ror campus Week 
are in the final stage of completion 
and indications point to a crowded 
two days of pleasure. All the commit­
tees have reported on the progress 
made and expectations are that with 
the proper student and alumni re­
sponse, the 1928 Campus Week will be 
the best ever held.
The tags required for admission to 
the various Campus Week events will 
be placed on sale in the various 
schools according to the following 
schedule: Science College on Thurs­
day, April 26; Margaret Morrison 
College, Friday, April 27; Arts Col­
lege, Tuesday, May 1. Those students 
of any of the colleges who do not ob­
tain tickets on the above days may 
get their tickets in Central Building 
on Wednesday, May 2.
Tags must be bought in the college 
indicated on the day of sale, or if 
they fail to get them then, they may 
get them at the all school sale in 
Central Building. This final sale will 
end promptly at 5 p. m. on May 2, 
and those who do not obtain them be­
fore the time liimt set will be unable 
to attend Campus Week. The price 
of the tags will be one dollar and only 
registered day students will be per­
mitted to purchase tickets. Regis­
tered students will be permitted to 
buy one guest tag and one student 
tag only on presentation of registra­
tion card. Alumni who intend to at­
tend Campus Week may get their 
tickets through the Alumni Office iu 
the Gymnasium Building.
Everyone attending Campus Week 
events must display his or her tag on 
the front of their coat or other wear­
ing apparel. Occasionally smart peo­
ple display their tags in less conspic­
uous places under coat lapels, inside 
on coats, on trousers, etc., all of 
which causes delay and inconvenience 
to the patrons as well as the door 
attendants. It is therefore necessary 
that tags be displayed as conspicu­
ously as possible to cause the mini­
mum confusion end delay.
Differently colored tags will be is­
sued to students, guests, almuni and 
guests, the colors being yellow, or­
ange, green, and pink.
Campus Week begins unofficially on 
Wednesday evening, May 2, with the 
Migratory Dance. Each fraternity on 
the campus holds a dance and the 
members of the various fraternities 
migrate from one house to another, 
dancing and then traveling to an­
other fraternity house. Only mem­
bers of recognized fraternities and 
their guests are permitted to migrate 
and tags distributed by the fraterni- 
(Continued on Page Eleven.)
Carnegie Foundation Giving Tests to Acting C. W. Chairman 
Learn About Schools and Scholars
WILLIAM KUNKLE
Sweepstakes Will Be 
Run May 3rd, 4th 
Of Campus Week
Traditional Race to be Over 
Usual Course; Dorms May 
Enter Cars
“Why are young people in high , 
school and college?” "How are they j 
from one institution to the other?” 
“What constitutes the best basic pre-! 
paration for college work and for 
life?” “What, is the responsibility oC 
the high school for orienting these 
pupils with respect to college aims 
and purposes?” “What is the re­
sponsibility of the college for adjust­
ing these young people after they get 
into college so that their native tal­
ents plus their high school prepara­
tion will be completely utilized in the } 
realization of the aims of the indi- | 
vidual and of the college?”
In an effort to answer these ques­
tions the Carnegie Foundation for 
the advancement of Teaching is con­
ducting an exhaustive study of the 
relations of secondary and higher edu­
cation in the state of Pennsylvania.
The study considers the educational 
performance of the preparatory school 
and the college to be a single cumu 
lative process the parts of which 
should be supplementary to each 
other. It is proposed that this educa­
tional performance be subjected to ex 
amination at three points: first, near
the beginning of the sixth grade or 
last year of the secondary school; 
second, at the twelfth grade or last 
year of the secondary school; and
GIRLS NOMINATE CLASS 
AND GLEE CLUB OFFICERS
Nominations for officers for the 
coming year were held last week by 
the Girls’ Glee Club and the Margaret 
Morrison junior and sophomore 
classes.
The Glee Club nominations were as 
follows: President, Helen Bright,
Norma Smith, Harriet Hanna, Helen 
Ehni; manager, Sylvia Levy, Helen 
Reed, Pendleton Scully; secretary, 
Helen Ward, Mary Crago, Mary Far- 
baugh; librarian, Betty West, Helen 
Mylrea; assistant librarian, Kathryn 
Wilson, Lois Shultz. The candidates 
receiving the second highest number 
of votes for president will be assistant 
manager. The elections took place 
yesterday in the Margaret Morrison. 
Results will be published later.
The junior class nominations result­
ed as follows: President, Frances
Guy, Irene La Londe, Annabel Turner; 
vice president, Mariam Cupps, Betty 
Marshall; secretary, Helen Bright, 
Dorothy Roy, Evelyn Goldenson; 
treasurer, Helen Booth, Dorothy New­
ell, Catherine Stevenson; social chair­
man, Barbara Renwick, Dorothy Hill, 
Sara Jolly, Alice Henk; Senate repre­
sentative, Mary Eckles, Isabel Hum­
mel, Florence Jenny, Helen Rosen- 
bach, Helen Ward.
Sophomore class nominations were: 
President, Ina Hansel], Emma Wilson, 
(Continued on Page Nine.)
The Ninth Annual Campus Week 
sweepstakes will be run Thursday, 
May 3 and Friday, May 4 over the 
usual course that has been the scene 
of many a struggle for supremacy 
in this collegiate sport of pushmobile 
races.
This tradition at Carnegie has 
grown in the heart of the Institution 
so that it has become the prime 
factor of much clean, but extremely 
keen rivalry between the various fra­
ternities of the campus. Year by 
year more interest is gathered in this 
unique competition and almost yearly 
new records are made in speed and 
new enthusiasts are attracted by its 
individuality, for people from all 
parts of Pittsburgh come to see this 
race.
This year's sweepstakes will be run 
over the same course as employed 
last year despite the fact that Wood- 
lawn street has been closed to traffic 
between Central Building and Mar­
garet Morrison. The committee is 
confident that the "mushrooms’' in 
the street can be removed for the 
race thereby making it possible to 
use the old course. To change the 
course would mean that last year’s 
speed record could not be used as a 
standard of comparison—since last 
year was the first time that five 
pushers have been used.
In previous years it had been cus­
tomary to use four pushers and it was 
only last year that the first tradition 
was broken—that of using five. It 
was then that the fastest tim£ over 
the course ever made was attained 
by Kappa Sigma with a time of 3 
minutes, 15 and 4-5 seconds. Pi Kappa 
Alpha holds the record for the fastest 
time using four pushers which was 
made in the previous year, a time of 
3 minutes, 18 and 3-10 seconds. The 
design cup was won last year by Beta 
Theta Pi for their shiny aluminum 
bodied chariot.
This year another change has been 
made by the General Campus Week 
Committee. It was decided that, in 
order to make the Campus Week 
Sweepstakes a truly All-Carnegie Af­
fair, the Men’s Dormitories have been 
allowed to enter cars in the competi­
tion. This, according to the com­
mittee, will be a step towards ad­
vancement of a better Campus Week.
The starting point of the race will 
be on Tech street, very close to the 
intersection of Woodlawn and the 
course will follow Tech street to the 
intersection of the first drive in 
Schenley Park where it will turn to 
the right and down past the Phipps 
Conservatory and Bigelow Monument 
to Woodlawn street where it will turn 
to the right, go past the Industries 
Building, and turning left at Central 
Building and finishing on Woodlawn 
just above Margaret Morrison and 
before coming to Tech street.
The Sweepstakes will be run in 
three heats. Thursday, May 3 at 
3:30 p. m. Safety Director Clark has 
(Continued on Page Nine.)
third, at the close of the final year of 
the college course. The last study is 
to be an analysis in retrospect of the 
entire period together with an attempt 
to measure certain elements of its j 
final product.
This study is being made in all the : 
colleges and secondary schools i 
throughout the state of Pennsylvania. ! 
What Carnegie Tech is doing in this j 
respect is announced in another col- j 
umn of the Tartan.
In testing grade-school children, the 
foundation will endeavor to learn as 
much as possible about the large num­
ber of children who are beginning 
their adolesce; to discover their 
individual mental. social. and 
physical traits; to express these 
findings in terms of standard meas­
urements in statements leaving no 
doubt as to their meaning; and to or­
ganize data which shall give a sum­
mary of a child's performance over a 
period of at least six years.
In examinging the college senior, 
the foundation desires to know the 
attitude of the student toward the 
course and the school after lie has bi­
sected his individual school record. 
It also wishes to know the students 
rating in a standard test not so much 
to test the individual but to put to 
f Continued on Page Pour, i
Stauffer President 
Of Student Council 
For Next School Year
PRESIDENT’S REVIEW TO 
BE HELD CAMPUS WEEK
TRI-PUBLICATION STAFF 
FOR 1928-1929 CHOSEN
Letzelter, Wile, Mary James 
Also Named Officers on 
1929 Council
Parade in Honor of Dr. Baker; 
Bartlett F. Carley to Get 
Prize Saber
With Campus Week only about ten 
days away the plans for the Presi­
dent’s Review are being concluded. 
The review this year promises to be 
the best 111 the history of the Campus 
Week idea. The drill of the various 
j companies of the R. O. T. G. is 
i probably, even at this writing, better 
j than in any previous year. The nn- 
I nuai review is always an attraction 
that draws hundreds of Carnegie’s 
( Pittsburgh friends to the' campus, 
j where they are treated to the best 
1 Carnegie has to offer in the way of 
military drill.
1 The review is, as me name implies, 
held in the honor of the president, 
of the institution, Dr. Baker. Dr. 
Baker is very interested In the work 
of the R. O. T. C. and holds a com­
mission as major of the Organized 
Reserve Corps. While Dr. Baker will 
be the Reviewing Officer, the Review­
ing Party will be made up of a num­
ber of others from Pittsburgh and the 
school itself. The honorary cadet 
officers of the battalion will, of 
course, be present. Miss Jean Roy, 
Honorary Major, and Misses Jean- 
1 ette Fulmer, Alice Bright, Dorothy 
Roy, Mildred Young, Jean Mather, and 
Alice Harding, Honorary Captains, 
j are the present honorary officers. 
Some of the Pittsburgh men who will 
attend in official capacity are: Com­
mander Yaras, of the Veterans of 
¡Foreign Wars; Colonel Tom Fitz- 
! gerald, vice-president of the Pitts­
burgh Railways Co.; Major Bain, 
Superintendent of Rovers and Harbars 
in the Pittsburgh district; Colonel 
Dunlop, of the 176th Field Artillery;
I Colonel Hartman, Chief of the 99th 
I Reserve Division; Colonel Church; 
Captain R. G. Woodside, D. S. C., City 
Controller; and others who have not 
yet accepted invitations. The Vet­
erans of Foreign Wars will also be 
represented by a delegation.
The R. O. T. C. companies will 
form in their usual places in front 
of the Arts School, at 11:20 Friday 
(Continued on Page Nine.)
Student Council Elects Wm. M. 
McNeill, R. W. Woods and 
Helen Booth
The t.ri-publication staff for the year 
1928-29 was olected at a recent meet­
ing or the Student Council. William
• M. McNeill was chosen editor in chief;
I Robert W. Wood, business manager, 
j and Helen Booth, managing editor. 
I William McNeill is a member of Pi 
j lyifiPa Alpha, social fraternity, and
• Scabbard and Blade, honorary military 
| fraternity. He is a junior editor of 
.the Tartan, Junior Industries reproson- 
‘tatlve on the Student Council and is
r ;:nager of the freshman oross-coun- 
I try, team. Robert W. !Wood belongs 
to I tie Sigma Phi Epsilon, social fra- 
¦ ternity. and Scalp and Blade, an or- 
: ganizntion of Huffalo men. Ho was 
I recently elected cheer leader manager 
for the year 1928-29 and is one of the 
I junior managers of the swimming 
team. Helen Booth is a member of 
Alpha Chi Alpha, woman’s national 
honorary journalistic fraternity.
The publication of the Handbook, 
the Student Directory, and the Car­
negie Song Boole, a new issue of 
which may bo published next year, Is 
under the direction of the tri-publica­
tions staff.
The present staff of the tri-publica­
tions includes Frederick D. Woods, ed­
itor-in-chief: Mark L. Seibert, business 
manager, and Jean Roy, managing edi­
tor.
A very important meeting of the 
new tri-publications staff will be held 
next Friday, April 27, at 1:00 p. m. in 
the Tartan office. It is very urgent 
that all members of the editorial and 
business staffs be there as the work 
lor the coming year will be outlined. 
Criticisms on previous publications 
and suggestions for new ones will be 
j greatly appreciated by the staff. The 
new editor-in-chief, William M. Mc­
Neill wishes to organize his staff and 
I formulate plans for the 1928-29 publi­
cations. McNeill wishes to start work 
immediately on material for the 1928- 
29 Plebe Bible which must be publish­
ed some time this coming summer and 
be ready for distribution during Fresh­
man Week next year.
Y. W. C. A. to Nominate 
Next Year’s Officers Soon
Y.M.C.A. Officers for ’28-29 
Chosen by Vote Last Week
CAMPUS WEEK COMMITTEE * 
NOTICE *
Mark L. Seibert, in the ab- *
* sence of William Kunkle, will be ->
* in the Student Council office * 
every day at noon to sign Cam- p
-\• pus Week invoices for commit- * 
*!* tee chairmen. *5*
* * 
* * * * * * * v * * * ? * * ? * ? *
The Y. W. C. A. held a discussion 
; meeting last Tuesday in the “Rec” 
I hall of Margaret. Morrison. A buffet 
j supper was served to about 35 girls. 
| Mrs. Foster, who has been very active 
; at Eaglesmere, was the speaker. Mrs. 
i Foster explained the many openings 
for summer work which is connected 
in some way with Christian associa- 
j tion activities.
I Marjorie Snodgrass, president of the 
I “Y” told in detail the fine experience 
I and pleasures to be had at Eagles- 
I mere. Eaglesmere is the camp in 
j northwestern Pennsylvania to which 
representatives of the schools in the 
I eastern section of the country spend 
¡several days together discussing and 
I attempting to solve some of the prob- 
I lems of everyday life. The Y. W. C. 
I A. of Carnegie should be well repre­
sented. Any girl who is interested in 
I the camp at Eaglesmere should plan 
to go. This year the conference Is 
scheduled from June 9 to June 21.
(Continued on Page Two.)
The annual election of officers for 
the Y. M. C. A. which was held last 
week produced the following results: 
Stewart C. Ralston was chosen pres­
ident; Robert H. Welirle, vice pres­
ident; Raymond C. Johnson, secre­
tary. The installation of the newly 
j elected men will take place at the 
Ruskin Apartments on Sunday even- 
I ing. April 29, at 6 p. m.
The men elected are air prominent 
011 the campus. Ralston, a junior in 
the Commercial Engineering Depart- 
and a member of the Sigma Nu fra­
ternity, is a junior editor of the Tar­
tan and Is the recently elected pres­
ident of the Science Senate for 1928- 
¡29.
1 Wchrle Is a sophomore in Building 
; Construction, a member of Delta Up- 
silon social fraternity and a member 
I of the Tartan staff.
' Johnson is a sophomore in the Ar­
chitectural Department and a mein- 
Iber of the Kappa Sigma social fra- 
I ternity.
On last Tuesday night, April 17, the 
Student Council elected John C. 
Stauffer, their president, from the four 
candidates elected by the four schools 
earlier in the day. The three defeat­
ed candidates will automatically be­
come President of the Senates In 
their respective colleges. The Stu­
dent Council also elected Cyril J. 
j Letzelter, vice-president; Georgo 
I Wile, treasurer; and Mary A. James, 
secretary.
j John C. Stauffer, tile Art Sc.tjool 
i candidate, who was elected prosidont. 
j Is vory prominent In activities. Ho is 
j a member of I ho Kappa Sigma Fra- 
i ternity, a membor oT Delta Skull,
| Junior Honorary Fraternity, and a 
football man. Last year I10 was 
secretary of the Arts Senate. C. J. 
Letzelter who was olected vlco-prosl- 
dont. will also be the president of the 
Industrlos Senate. Lotzoltor, a mem­
ber of the dopartmont of Industrial 
Education, Is vory prominent In 
I athletics, especially In football and 
basketball. Ho Is a member of the 
I’lil Kappa Fraternity, a membor of 
I the Delta Skull, and prosidont of the 
I industries Junior class, George Wile,
1 f roasurcr-oloct Is a civil engineer, a 
I member of the Sigma N11 Fraternity, 
1 a candidate for the varsity tennis 
team, having earned his numerals in 
that sport, a mombor of the Mgh’h 
Gloo Club and ho Is treasurer of the 
I Science Sonato. Mary A. .Tamos, who 
j was elected secretary Is one of Mar- 
1 gare't Morrison's representatives. She 
is a member of the dopartmont of 
j Secretarial Studios.
1 Steward C. Ralston, the science 
school candidate will automatically 
) become President of the Science 
1 Senate as provided in the constitu- 
1 tion. Ralston is a Commercial, a 
member of the Sigma Nu Fraternity, 
I Junior Editor of the Tartan, Fra­
ternity Editor of the Thistle, and sec- 
, retary of the Theta Tail, Professional 
I Honorary Fraternity. Henrietta M. Ac- 
I cepiter was elected president of the 
Margaret Morrison Senate. She is a 
member of the department of General 
Science, secretary of the Junior Class, 
j and she was president of her Sopho­
more class. The students of Margaret 
Morrison also elected Alice Bright of 
I the department of Household Econom- 
I ics to the office of vice president, and 
Virginia Morgan of the department of 
Secretarial Studies to the office of 
secretary.
Due to the fact that the Art. School 
candidate was elected president of 
the Student Council, another election 
is being held this week for the presi­
dent of the Arts Senate. The candi­
dates foi* this office are Joseph 
Schomick of the Phi Kappa Frater­
nity and Ralph Hitchcock of the Beta 
Theta Pi Fraternity.
During the last week all the classes 
on the campus nominated the candi­
dates for their class offices. The 
nominations were made by adding the 
nominees names to a list posted 011 
(Continued on Page Nine)
REGISTRAR’S OFFICE WILL
HANDLE KING LEAR TICKETS
MAY 7 AND 8 SET AS 
DATES FOR COLLEGE 
ACHIEVEMENT TEST
Personal Interviews With 
Dept. Heads to be Conducted 
in Conjunction With Tests
CO-OPERCTION OF ALL 
C. I. T. SENIORS ASKED
Results of Tests to be Used in 
Developing Better School 
Systems
The college achievement test given 
to each senior will extend over a 
period of two days, May 7 and 8. The 
members of the Senior Class will be 
excused from all other class exercises 
during this period. In conjunction 
with these tests personal interviews 
with the seniors will be conducted 
by the Department Heads of the 
respective schools in which the stu­
dent concerned is enrolled.
This information which will bo 
gathered is to bo used for. statistical 
purposes only so as to aid the educa­
tional department in the development 
of a better system for conducting 
higher learning. The tests and inter­
views will bo treated in a strictly con­
fidential manner and 110 senior should 
hostitate giving full explanatory 
| answers to the questions aslced. Let­
ters have boon sont to all the seniors 
concerning those tests and an an­
nouncement will bo posted in each 
college at an oarly date stating: tlie 
hour and room of the interview with 
the Director of the College.
The proposal first made in August, 
1920, by the Pennsylvania Joint Com­
mission to the Carnegie Foundation 
for the Advancomont of Toaching 
that, it appoint representatives to 
! conduct a study of the Relations of 
I Secondary and Higher Education- in 
the State of Pennsylvania was ac- 
' copl.od with the understanding that 
actlvo operations would bo deferred 
until certain other studios then be­
fore the Enquiry Division of tho 
Foundation had boon completed. 
From tho time that Is was suggested, 
however, tho project, has received 
careful study, and tho Foundation is
at length prepared to offer for con-
sUleratlon a plan by which the sonjors 
j will bo tested.
| Those tests are being conducted 
, In ovory collego and university In tho 
1 Stato of Ponmiylavnla, 011 the da to 
sot which Is May 7 and 8.
Similar tosts will bo hold In all the 
high schools both public and private 
in the state. Tho purpose being to 
find out whether a student finishing 
his secondary courso of study is pre­
pared or fit to go 011 further. It in 
also tho purpose of finding out tho 
exact field for which tho student con­
cerned is host fitted.
Tho tosts and interviews to be con­
ducted in Carnegie are a part of tho 
college program. The question which 
tho administration is trying to 
(Continued on Page Nine.)
R.O.T.C. STUDENTS SMOKER 
WILL BE IN UNION FRIDAY
Tickets for "King Lear,” to bo pre­
sented In the Little Theater beginning 
Wednesday, April 2f>, may be obtained 
in the registrar's office as before. 
There has been some misunderstand­
ing as to where these tickets may be 
obtained, and because of the large 
number expected to attend these per­
formances, the Tartan thought it well 
to clear up this point.
Members of the Carnegie branch of 
the R. O. T. C. look forward with an­
ticipation to the smoker which ia 
scheduled to be held in the Union on 
Friday, April 29, at 8 o’clock. This 
function bids to vie with the previous 
R. O. T. C. activities on the campus, 
and will be well worth while.
The smoker will be held for the 
benefit of the R. O. T. C. students at 
Carnegie. All members of this group 
are invited and the purpose of the 
smoker will be a departmental get- 
together for an evening of good fel­
lowship. The affair will be entirely 
informal. It is not requested that tho 
R. O. T. C. uniforms be worn either, 
Inasmuch as the function will resem­
ble a social rather than an organized 
get-together.
The hosts of the evening will bo 
the members of the Scabbard and 
Blade, national military honorary, so­
ciety, and they have arranged for an 
Interesting and varied entertainment 
for the evening. The repertoire of 
tho evening will consist of smokes, 
stunts, plenty of eats, and movies.
Porhaps one of the greatest virtues 
of tho smoker is that the affair is freo 
of charge. Impecunious students will 
welcome this opportunity for an even­
ing of good fellowship without tho 
outlay of any money. Since all R. O. 
T. C. students are cordially Invited, 
a large and representative crowd of 
the members of this department is de­
sired and expected. A good turnout is 
tho only remaining necessity for a rec­
ord evening.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, APRIL 24, 1928
[clan directory]
NOTE: The Clun Directory tfivonbelow In 
incomplete, and In Home cases, poHHlbly In ef­
fect I(. ban been compile»!, however, from the 
WMt uVttllOble dutu. Any corrections or ad- iitionu iihould R.O BontJ in Immediately to the 
Alumni Office.
BALTIMORE 
Pmntdent, O. S. Diehl, BoUona Avenue. S«erotary mid TroiiHtirer, I*. H. Dickey, 1.118 
Continental Building.
BOSTON
Secretary, John I’’. Maxwell, 7(5 Went Street, 
Braintree, Muss.
BUFFALO
President, Robert Porter. I DO Hoyt Street. 
Secretary and Treasurer, Herbert L. Moerah- 
felder. 34 Ketchum Place.
CANTON
President, Frank J. Taylor, 5in Alta Place, 
N. W., Canton, Ohio.Vico President, Henry L. Borgorl 015 Green 
Street. Massillon, Ohio.Secretary, VVllmer II. Tuckor, 1230% Cleve­
land Avenue, N. W.Trcanurer. George A. Martin, <115 Ninth 
Streot, N. E.
CHICAGO
Cfmlrm/ui. C. .T. Copley. 53(5 Wrigley Building, finance Committee, Huntley Wallace, Chair­
man ; Vic StromqUlBt, John Jlarkncnu. 
Program Committee, John Nation, Chairman: 
Hurwy Hiller, Mm. II. W. Davis. 
Homiiornhip Committee, C. B. Schmidt, Chair­
man; Mr». John IlarkneHu, lhad Wheeler. 
Publicity, J1'. W. Cook.ill communication» ¿Would In* addressed to 
G. J. Copley.
CINCINNATI 
President, G. C. Smith, Chemical Department, 
University o£ Cincinnati.
CLEVELAND 
President, A. 0. M..y, Pcorlcm Automatic 
Machine Company.Vice Pre-indent, O. IC. Fulmer, 1840 East 101»t
SecreUiry, E. P. Batcham, 1080 Union Trust
Trl^nsurcrf L. C. Luatcnberger, 1840 Eimt 101st 
Street.
CrJiVEI-ANI) WOMEN’S CLAN 
President, Katherine Kerr, 1088 East 116th
Vlce^Pretddenl. Alice Nelson Koppes, 1079 
East 82nd Streot.Secretary and Treasurer, Catherine Allan,
Kcuit 124th Street.
COLUMBUS, OHIO 
PreniJont. N. J. T.CRFI 26« South Hllth St. Vic« President, Florence H. Lutz, 01 South 
Market Street. Logan, Ohio.Secretary and Treasurer, J. R. Pnlomn, De­
partment of Romance LanguagOB, Ohio 
State University.
CONNECTICUT 
President, C. Arthur Nordstrom, 17 Sterling 
Street', Hartford.Vic« President, William Gooby, 10 Madison 
.Street. New Britain.Secretary and Treasurer, Samuel I' lax man, 
92 Vico Street. Hartford.
DAYTON. OHIO 
President), F. W. lleckert, 341 Kenilworth 
Avenue.
DETROIT
President, W. Ray William«, enro Wesilng- 
house Electric & Manufacturing Company, 
1635 Sixth Street.Secretary and Treasurer, C. L. Boyle, J00D 
Balfour Road.ERIE
President, Ray Keller, care Hammcrmlll 
Paper Company.Secretary and Treasurer, R. C. Warren, care 
, The Warren Company.
GOLDEN GATE 
President, G. M. Whlsler, 1778 Rose Street, 
Berkeley.Secretary and Treasuver, Mr«. R. L. Wharton, 
Box 147, Route 1, Richmond, Calif.
HARRISBURG 
President, John G. Todd. 20>/j North Queen 
Street, Lancaster.Vice President, Ilenry Y. Shaub, ¿O'/j North 
Queen Street, Lancaster.Secretary, Frank Hlghberger, care State De­partment of Public Instruction, Harrisburg, 
HUNTINGTON, W. VA.
Secretary, J. F. DeYoung, 808 Second Street, 
East.
JOHNSTOWN 
Secretary, John W. Frit», 215 John Street.
KOPPER8, PITTSBURGH 
President, D. J. McFarlln, care Koppors Con 
ntruution Company, Union Trust Building. 
Vico ProHldnnt, II. 11. IIoolc.
.Secretary, W. II. Neely.Vre.atmrwr, A. G. Wagner, together with J. 
\t\o-. C. B. CoIIIdh, 11. E. Warren, composing 
a Hoard of Goveruora.
MONONGAHELA VALLEY 
Psvnldnnt, Conrad A. Stone, Box 801, Char 
lerol, Pa.Vie« Pivaldent, Mrs. Alice Nixon Conn. can 
Kind Frederick Apartment, Fourth and Dock 
St iveta, Steubenville, Ohio.
Secretary and Treasurer, A. H. Lowntutloi’ 
I^iok No. .1. Pa.
MILWAUKEE 
B'rwlfdant, A. II. Tonleiion, 7!17 Fortieth Street. 
Secretary and Tremturer, N. L. Dlttmer, 540 
Second Avenue, Wauwatono.
NEW YORK 
• Secretary ami IVoainiror, Mryon K1 tutf. 4(100 
Avenun M, Brooklyn, N. Y.Publicity Manauei. F. I. Smith, care 11. L 
Doherty Company, (10 Wall Street.
NORFOLK
President, T. D. Fllr-gibbon, 811 Holt Streot.
NORTHERN NEW JERSEY r-President. C. W. Glbhu, care Ingorsoll-Rand 
Company, JI Broadway, New York City. 
Vice President, E. W. Van Der Wolk, 73 Grove Streot, Montclair, N. J.
Treasurer. F. K. Zelgler, 205 Union Avenue, Belleville, N\ J.
.SecreUiry, J. F. Smaney, 211 LocuBt Street, 
.Roselle Park, N. J.
PHILADELPHIA 
¦president, M. E>. Scott, 545 Ivathmere Road, 
Brookline, Upper Darby, Pa.
'8ccretary and Treasurer, T. S. Repplier, care 
Edwards, Ewing & Jones, North American 
Building, Philadelphia.
Chnirman Entertainment and Membership
Alumni Are Urged to Join 
The Clan in Their District
Wo have published the Clan Direc­
tory in this issue, up to date, as far 
as wo know, in the hope that, some of 
our alumni who do not get the Tar­
tan regularly will note the officers of 
the clun In their district and will get 
in touch with them.
Our clans are scattered throughout 
the country in all the principal cities, 
and most of them are very active. 
Our alumni should And it pleasant to 
be able to associate with others from 
Carnegie In the same district, and we 
feel sure that the clans will welcome 
new members. Several new clans 
have been inaugurated during the past 
year, and one or two are being con­
sidered in cities where there are none 
at present. Get in touch with the 
secretary or president of the clan in 
your district and find out when the 
clan meets and when the next social 
affair is to be held. Get acquainted 
with the Carnegie alumni in your dis­
trict.
If you find that there Is no clan in 
your district, and you think you would 
like such an organization, write to 
Miss Andrews, and she will give you a 
list of the alumni In your district, to 
whom you can go and talk about or­
ganizing a clan.
How Carnegie Seniors Find Jobs
Industries Now Recruit Them While in School; Many Are 
Assured Jobs When They Graduate
A Word From Mr. Beatty, 
Employment Bureau Head
CATERING
DEPENDABLE FOR CLASS
----and----
FRATERNITY AFFAIRS 
Serviee that Is distinctively 
appropriate. Complete Monu if 
doBftrod or merely. Calces, Ice Cream and Pastry. Estimates 
ou request
STORE SERVICE 
Cakes—Pastries—Ice Creams— 
|ce8—Bread npd Candles Ideally 
made and sold at reasonable 
prices. Phone orders—no charge 
for city delivery.
Table and Fountain 
Luncheon Service.
Store hours: 8 A.M. to 11:30 P.M.[clan
3lV6taneñU fir CATERERSS1MDY AMO PENN AVG-. P1TTSBUSCB
Employment, conditions are begin­
ning to improve in the Pittsburgh 
district. For the past year, new open­
ings have been scarce and though the 
graduates have been successfully 
keeping their positions, new openings, 
particularly for those wishing to take 
night school courses, have bee’n diffi­
cult to locate.
Practically all the available means 
for locating openings for night stu­
dents were used during the past year. 
Hundreds of personal letters were 
written to large concerns in this dis­
trict and even advertising in the pa­
pers was resorted to in an effort to se­
cure positions for night students.
The personal experience record file 
of the graduates has been built up i 
the past year and with the resumption 
of business it should be possible for 
many of the alumni to receive leads 
on now opportunities for which their 
training and experience have qualified 
tliom. It has seemed best, to advise 
the majority of the graduates to hold 
their present positions during the past 
year. Those who change during a 
falling labor market may not be kept 
by llie new organization with which 
they have become identilied if busiy 
ness declines.
It is to be hoped that all the alumni 
will make it a point to cull at the 
olllee oil the Bureau of Recommenda­
tions during Campus Week or at any 
time they are near the campus, as it 
Is much easier for the bureau to co­
operate with the alumni after a per­
sonal call.
Austin, Texas.—In an exhibition 
run at the Texas relays here recently, 
Charlie Paddock set a new record in 
the 1'10-yard dash. Ho broke • the 
world mark by doing the lap In 13.4.
Princeton, N. J.—In a survey the 
Princeton Alumni Weekly has discov­
ered that with the exception of base­
ball and crew, all athletics tend to 
prolong life.
The following Is an excerpt from an 
article recently published in the New 
York Times. It describes the situa­
tion at Carnegie Tech so accurately 
that we have thought It worth re­
publishing. Our Employment Bureau 
plays 0.11 important part in this work.
“With hundreds of thousands of 
men and women out of work through­
out the country and with no likeli­
hood of their finding employment for 
some time to come, the question is 
raised of what chance the graduate 
leaving college in June will have of 
making, a living. Aside' from the 
large number of undergraduates of 
both sexes who will need summer em­
ployment to forfend themselves 
against next year’s college expenses, 
It is estlmaaed that there will be more 
than 40,000 graduates seeking an op­
portunity tp test the worth of their 
four years' college or university train­
ing.
"Under the new system that is 
sometimes spoken of as systematic 
recruiting, it is estimated that 5,000 
graduates, mostly men, are normally 
absorbed each year In our major in­
dustries. They are able to start on 
their jobs as soon a graduation exer­
cises are over or as soon after that as 
they may wish. Tt is expected that 
about the normal proportion of men 
will be called for this year by the in- 
dutries, in spite of the unemployment 
situation.
“The work of recruiting these young 
men from the classes of 1928 has al­
ready, begtm and by the middle of 
May it will be almost completed. In 
pre-war days the small number of men 
who desired the teaching profession 
might put themselves in line for se­
lection as instructors or assistant pr<
??National Tube Company.
??National Aniline & Chemical Com­
pany.
?Ohio Brass Company.
?Petroleum Heat & Power Company. 
?Phoenix Portland Cement Company. 
??Seaboard By-Product Coke Com­
pany.
-------- ?Southern Manganese Corporation.
the likelihood of becoming the chief ! ??Solvay Sales Corporation, 
executive is more remote owing to | ?Texas Company, 
stiff competition, or whether he | ?Texas Gulf Sulphur Company, 
should enter a small business in which ??United States Department of Agri- 
he may hope for parnership or owner- ; culture.
ship. j ??Union Carbide Carbon Company.
“It is becoming increasingly evi- j ^Westinghouse Lamp Company, 
dent, personnel managers say, that j *Weirton Steel Company, 
the college man is demanding some-1 "Certain-Teed Products Corporation, 
thing more than a satisfactory liveli
hood as the presumptive reward forCHEMICAL ENGINEERING
business actively. -He wants work i ??The Falls Manufacturing Company, 
that will interest him to the extent i ??National Aniline & Chemical Com- 
that he will feel joy in giving com-1 pany.
plete loyalty to the organization em- ?Southern Manganese Corporation.
ploying him. He is also looking for a 
business that offers reasonable prom­
ise of advancement and that will give 
him a position of respect in the com­
munity and satisfy his sense of per­
sonal achievement.
“The annual increase in the num­
ber of men who step from the colleges 
into American industry is regarded as 
the best proof that the men selected 
in the past have made good and given 
satisfaction. to the organization em­
ploying them.
“There has been a movement in the 
last few years to interest college wo­
men in business careers and some of 
the larger women’s colleges are now 
being visited by personnel managers 
from industries. Opportunities for 
statistical and research work and va- | ?Fred T. Ley & Company.
?Hagan Corporation.
??Westinghouse Lamp Company. 
??Certain-Teed Products Corporation.
CIVIL
??Black & Veatch.
?Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Com­
pany.
?Central Railroad of New Jersey. 
??Philip Carey Company. 
??Consolidated Gas Company of New 
York.
??Commonwealth of Pennsylvania— 
Highways.
??Cyclone Fence Company.
??Dravo Contracting Company. 
??Genfire Steel Company.
?Island Creek Coal Company. 
?Koehring Company.
?W. N. Kratzer Company.
??Detroit Edison,. Company. 
??Englert-Rehtmeyer Company. 
??Thomas A. Edison, Inc.
?General Electric Company.
?Ideal Electric & Manufacturing 
Company.
?Island Creek Coal Company. 
??Industrial Brownhoist Company. 
??Malir Manufacturing Company. 
??Minnesota Steel Company.
?North East Electric Company.
?New York Edison Company.
?The Ohio Public Service Company. 
?Reliance Electric & Engineering 
Company.
??Relay Motors Corporation. 
?Southern New England Telephone 
Company.
??Union Switch & Signal.
??United Fruit Company.
??Van Dorn Electrical Company.
?Warren Brothers Company. 
??Westinghouse Lamp Company. 
??The Lincoln Electric Company.
HEATING AND VENTILATING
?C. C. Loder Power Plant Equipment. 
??Stack Heater Company.
rious supervisory posts are offered to 
them, some of them leading to high 
salaried positions as buyers in depart­
ment stores. It is estimated that 400 
to 500 young women graduates will 
step into business life at the end of 
their college work in the summer as 
a result of this activity.”
For the past two months the per- 
fessors by visiting college presidents. | SOnnel managers of the various com- 
But for the college man who wished I panjes, including those mentioned in 
to go into business, there was prac- t.]ie above article, have been interview- 
tieally no agency outside his own in- jng Carnegie Seniors. Many of the 
itiative or the Rood will of friends. ! Seniors have already secured posi- 
"Tlie system developed since the ; tions in this way.
?New York, New Haven and Hartford 
Railroad Company.
??Picatinny Arsenal.
??Raymond Concrete Pile Company. 
?C. E. Smith & Company.
?San Joaquin Light Power Com­
pany.
?Warren Brothers Company. 
??Wabash Portland Cement Company. 
??Reading Company.
COMMERCIAL
?American Oil Company.
??American Creosoting Company. 
??American Foreign Insurance Com-
war, as a result of the needs of Airier- I Letters have been sent to over j pany- .. , :...............................c___________ 1 ?American Manufacturing Export
Association.lean industry enables 'the college man j twenty-eight hundred firms by the
who feels that lie lias an aptitude for Bureau of recommendations in order! . ....... , .• i ii , , ,, ., . American Institute of Accountants,some special line of business to on , t0 locate all possible openings foi the , ^
tain specific information as to the op- coming graduates. From the letters, ~nn%nnryv
portunlties offered in that business received it tlevehjped that it was con- ®e0',ehe™ ® e D A YSMAAKA r™.and generally speaking, to have a i trary t0 the poijey of some of the j Bankei s Commercial Discount 
chance under tlie most favorable.con- companies to send personnel repre- ’¦ -h Jr1“ . 
ditioils lo see whether he can mako tentative:.; to the colleges. It is their la . le t . ooi
good in it.I plan to receive all of their applica-j ??Century Electric Company. 
?Crane Company.
Committee, L. IS. Exllne, lfiUO Real Estate 
Trust Bulldlnir-
PITTSBURGH
President, G. Albert Wutfner, care The Hop­
pers Company.
Vice President. L. II. Lee, ’¿0(> Stsnwlx Street.
SeereUiry-TreiiBurcr, Buddy Overend, CarnCKle 
Tech.
SCHENECTADY
President, J. M. Sampson, 46 Bedford Street,Vice President, J. L. Ivnijrht, care Genera 
Electric Company.Secretary and Treasurer, Raymond Gill, 200 
Union Street.
ST. LOUISActing Secretary, M. A. Zellar, care of Ham­
ilton Company, Inc., 2127 Pine Street.
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA
President, Floyd Fisher, 814 North Fairmont 
Road, Burbank, Calif.
Vice President', James Schofield, care Colum­
bia Steel Corporation, 831 Pacific Electric 
Building:.
Secretary and Treasurer, Betty Finkelhor, 200 
North Oafchurst Drive, Beverley Hills, Calif.
Executive Committee, John Meredith and 
Robert Finkelhor.
TULSA |
President, H. G. Texter, care Standard Seam­
less Tube Company, 710 Mid Continent1 
Building.Vice President, Arthur J. Kerr, 1617 South' 
Quaker Avenno.
Secretary and Treasurer, H. W. Penterman, 
32 Mayo Building.
WASHINGTON, D. C.President, J. R. Arnold, 21 Second Street, 
N. W.
Vice President, Harriet Staples, 3611 S Street, 
N. W.Secretary and Treasurer, A. M. Pringle, 627 
Lexington Place, N. E.
YOUNGSTOWN, OniO
President, R. A. Bookmeyer, 1515 Elm Street.
Vice President, Fred C. Beede, 1324 Hillman 
Street.Secretary and Treasurer, George Murphy, 1871 
Selma Avenue.
“Only the larger industrial organl-. Hons directly from the students i *.Colonla]^uppiy' Company.
7,,Lions, whose normal rate of expan-, through the mails. j .0onner8Vll|e Blower Compaliy.
sion permits the absorption of a giv- I Th(? f0u0W,ng classified lists have , *philip carey Company.
on number of new workers eacli year. 11)een prepared 0f firms who advised ' **Chrysler Corporation
are able to offer openings at a time j the Bureau that they have ggenings . ?*Conn‘ecticut Mutual Life insurance
when there is obviously 110 special., in the¡r organizations. If the Seniors | Company.
easiness expansion. Such organiza-. act immediately there is no reason ¡ * «cyclone Fence Company. ?
t ions are the Bell Telephone System, | wjiy any 0f them should be without a ¡ **Englert-Rehtmeyer" Company, 
utility corporations, banking justifcu-1.p'oRition after graduation. If this a.c- ¦ **Thomas A. Edison. Inc. 
tions, such as the Natonal City Bank L¡0n js postponed, however, the grad- j *pr^. YYEciuipinent Corporation, 
of New York, department stores in | uates froni 0tlier colleges may be in- j **Gree®.nm Sons Investment Com- 
t.he large cities, t he beef packing in- , j-orlrled of these openings, and through : pany.
dustry and the larger manufacturing | prompt action secure them. ??Genfire Steel Company,
concerns, among them the E. 1. Du-1 Following is the list, according 1° j ««Hollahci Furnace Company.
Pont de Nemours and Company, and departments:
the motor industries. The initial sal-; ---------
arles for recruits varies from $25 to j ARCHITECTURE
$155 a week. ¡ ««Dahlstróm Metallic Door Company.
“Through the personnel ®ait-1 ^National Fire Proofing Company, 
ments of such companies representa- ( **Rorimer-Brooks Studios.
lives start out in March 011 a tour of 1 ---------
colleges and technical schools. They ! AUTO MAJOR
are prepared to explain to interested 1 ?’"Chrysler Corporation,
students the business routine and the j **Englert-Rehtmeyer Company, 
opportunities offered in their orgaui- ¡ »North East Electric Company, 
zations. ¡??Relay Motors Corporation.
“A student who is not certain of j *Retail Delivery Association.
his choice of a career may be aided | -----------------
in making up his mind by listening to
Com-
the explanatory talks of represents 
lives of different industries. Some of 
the large industries have a well sys­
tematized routine for representing in­
formation, such as the electric indus­
try, whose information is complete 
and concisely formulated.
¦"Organizations like the Bell Tele­
phone System, General Electric and 
Westinghouse, which may employ 
about 1,500 college men and a few col­
lege women in the next few months, 
prepare psunphlets that set forth the 
various types of work they offer and 
these are distributed to interested stu­
dents. Some of these pamphlets give 
statistics and charts of the rate of 
promotion, salary prospects and aver­
age age at which specific salaries ac­
crue to their staff officials.
“The experience of these compan­
ies has shown that the college man of 
today who plans a business career is 
taking into account all the factors that 
enter into his business future. He is 
asking himself whether he would be 
more contented doing team work in a 
great business organization in which 
his chances for heading a department 
or branch are excellent, hut in which
BUILDING CONSTRUCTION
??Philip Carey Company. 
??Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. 
??Cyclone Fence Company.
??Dravo Contracting Company. 
??Dalilstrom Metallic Door Company. 
??Guibert Steel Company.
??Genfire Steel Company.
?Johns-Manvfile, Inc.
?Koehring Company.
?W. N. Ivratzer Company.
?Fred T. Ley & Company, Inc. 
??Ohio Retail Lumber Dealers' Asso­
ciation.
??Penns. Dixie Cement porporation. 
??Picatinny Arsenal.
??Raymond Concrete Pile CompanjT. 
??Wabash Portland Cement Company. 
??Wood Construction.
CHEMICAL
?American Oil Company.
?American Gas Association. 
??Colonial Supply Company. 
?Coatesville Boiler Works.
?Carnegie Steel Company.
?Curtis Publishing Company.
??The Falls Manufacturing Company. 
?Firtli-Sterling Steel Company. 
??Linde Air Products Company. 
??Lukens Steel Company.
j ??Hope Engineering & Supply 
pany.
?Industrial Brownhoist Corporation. 
?Island Creek Coal Company. 
?Jolins-Manville, Inc.
?W. N. Kratzer Company, 
j ??Kaufmann’s Department Store.
: ??S. S. Kresge Company.
; ??Linde Air Products Company, 
j ??Lukens Steel Company.
| :,*Lowis-Shepard Company, 
j ??Malir Manufacturing Company. 
"?Minnesota Steel Company.
?*C. C. McKallip Company.
?New York, New Haven & Hartford 
Railroad Company.
??National .Tube Company. 
?Petroleum Heat & Power Company. 
??Provident Mutual.
??Pennsylvania Dixie Cement Cor­
poration.
?Phoenix Portland Cement Company. 
??Reliance Life Insurance Company. 
??Seiberling Rubber Company. 
?Standard Plate Glass Company. 
?Sperry Gyroscope Company. 
?Southern New England Telephone 
Company.
?Texas Gulf Sulphur Company, Inc. 
?Trent Process Corporation.
??United Fruit Company.
??Van Dorn Electric Tool Company. 
?Warren Brothers Company. 
??Wabash Portland Cement Company. 
??Western Clock Company.
MECHANICAL
?American Oil Company.
??American Creosoting Compayn. 
?American Gas Association. 
??American Engineering Company. 
?American Optical Company. 
??Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Com­
pany.
??Brooklyn Edison Company.
??The Bristol Company.
??Century Electric Company. 
?Coatesville Boiler Works. 
?Connersville Blower Company. 
?Carnegie Steel Company. 
??Consolidated Gas Company of New 
York.
??oetroit Edison Company. 
??Englert-Rehtmeyer Company.
?Erie City Iron Works.
??Thomas A. Edison, Inc.
?Firth Sterling Steel Company.
?Fry Equipment Company.
??Fuller Lehigh Company.
??Gray Printing Company.
?General Electric Company. 
??Holland Furnace Company.
??Hope Engine and Supply Company. 
?Ideal Electric & Manufacturing 
Company.
??Industrial Brownhoist Company. 
?Island Creek Coal Company. 
?Koehring Company.
??Lukens Steel Company. 
??Lewis-Shepard Company. 
??Monongaliela Railway Company. 
??Malir Manufacturing Company. 
??Minnesota Steel Company.
?Metcalf & Eddy Engineers. 
?National Tube Company.
?New York Edison Company.
?Ohio Brass Company.
?Petroleum Heat & Power Company. 
??Picatinny Arsenal.
?Reliance Electric and Engineering 
Company.
??Relay Motors Corporation. 
??Seiberling Rubber Company. 
?'Southern New England Telephone 
Company.
??State University of New Mexico. 
?Texas Company.
??Union Carbide & Carbon Company. 
??United Fruit Company.
??Van Dorn Electric Tool Company. 
?Warren Brothers Company. 
??Wagner Electric Corporation. 
?Weirton Steel Company.
??Western Clock ' Company.
?Hagan Corporation.
?Willys-Morrow Company, Inc. 
??Certain-Teed Products Corporation. 
??The Industrial Press.
??Raymond Concrete Pile Company. 
??Solvay Sales Corporation.
??Denoted definite opening with com­
pany.
?Denotes a possibility of an opening 
in the near future.
ELECTRICAL
?American Gas Association. 
??American Engineering Company. 
??Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Com­
pany.
??Brooklyn Edison Company.
??The Bristol Company.
??Century Electric Company. 
?Connersville Blower Company.
The above list is not complete, but 
will be continued next week. Seniors 
wishing to correspond with any of 
these companies may obtain more in­
formation from Mr. Kristof in the 
Bureau of Recommendations.
Y. W. C. A. TO NOMINATE
NEXT YEAR’S OFFICERS SOON
(Continued From Page One.)
The members of the cabinet will be 
glad to discuss the problem and value 
of Eaglesmere to any of those inter­
ested.
The nominating committee consist­
ing of Charlotte Wardalej Barbara 
Renwick and Isobel Sheppard has 
been appointed to choose the nominees 
for the officers of the “Y” for the com­
ing j^ear. The election of officers will 
take place in several weeks. When 
the new officers are elected they will 
go with the present cabinet on a re­
treat. This retreat will be held in 
Sewickley, and will serve as a means 
of getting the cabinets acquainted and 
the plans for next semester’s “Y” cal- 
ander so arranged that the “Y” will 
be on a substantial ground to carry 
011 its activities for the coming year.
HE’LL KEEP HIS HEALTH
3
By FRANK REILLY
VT SA.YS VoüßE NJE.RV 
L-\Ae>l_E. To G»ET G£RMS L FRoV. HAMOl_\NàCr NV5NÆ.V

---------------------------------------------------

FOR YOUR
Make your arrangements now for a successful 
Campus Week by reserving one 
of our new cars
STUDENT PASS ON REQUEST
INCORPORATED
Schenley 1900
TUESDAY, APRIL 24, 19THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREh
Mark Seibert Acts As C. W. 
Chairman In Runkle’s Place
During tlie absence of William
Spirit of Campus Week 
Is Now in Full Sway
Kunkle due to illness, Mark L. Sei­
bert will serve as Acting Chairman of 
the Ninth Annual Carnegie Campus 
Week.
Seibert is a Senior in the Depart­
ment of Painting and Decorating of 
the College of Fine Arts. He was 
house president of Sigma Phi Epsilon I musty 
for the past year, is a member of ^ut 
Dragon, Delta Skull, and Pi Delta Ep­
silon honorary fraternities. Last year 
he was the treasurer of the Arts Ball, 
and on the Junior Prom Committee,
This year he is the vice president of 
the Student Council, president of the 
Arts Senate, head cheerleader, and 
has charge of all social event budgets 
which are acted upon by the Student 
Council. Seibert has had a great deal 
of experience along the line of work 
which he has just taken up for Kun­
kle and will undoubtedly carry them 
through just as successfully as he has 
done his other work.
Seibert, due to his new appoint­
ment, has resigned from the chair­
manship of the Ticket Sales Commit­
tee and Bob Wood has been appoint­
ed to take over his work. Wood had 
been working on the committee under 
Seibert and at present he has his 
plans well in hand.
Buildings to be Flood-Lighted 
During Gala Festivities 
of Campus Week
Cabaret Dance to be a
Feature of New Events
The ninth anual Campus Week will 
be featured by a variety of new events. 
The committee in charge of the new 
events is composed of H. Wray, chair­
man; Isobel Sheppard, Gordon Durr, 
Frank Foote, and Thomas L. Mc­
Combs. The main feature of the new 
events is to be a cabaret dance. The 
dance will be held Friday afternoon, 
May 4, in the gymnasium, the orches­
tra to be the same as that to be had 
at other Campus Week aifairs. Tables 
will be placed throughout the gymna­
sium and there will be refreshments. 
A program to be marked by special 
dancing numbers will be presented.
While the cabaret dance is being 
held there will be roller skating either 
in the gymnasium or on the streets 
of the campus to the music of the 
noted Academy Band Wagon. The 
committee will provide the skates and 
students are urged to supply their own 
cushions.
It is desired to make the cabaret 
dance a very informal affair and stu­
dents are requested to co-operate.
Squeak is Back Again 
To Cover Campus Week
Back again, with promises of being 
bigger and better than any of its pre­
decessors, comes our old friend Cam­
pus Week, and with it comes an even 
dearer friend, The Campus Squeak. 
Until two years ago, it had been the 
custom to change the name of this ail 
knowing oracle but the publishers at 
last decided upon the name of Squeak 
and have succeeded in keeping it that 
for the last two years. It will appear 
again this year under the caption of 
Campus Squeak. The name is one 
very fitting to the paper and has be­
come a password of the annual spring 
frolic.
Through the columns of this time 
honored publication, the revelers are 
kept in intimate contact with the vari­
ous happenings on the campus. , It 
gives a complete review of everything1 
beginning with the migratory and end­
ing with the cleaning up of the cam­
pus. The reading matter is presented 
in a very digestible form.
A feature of this year’s Squeak will 
be literary efforts of The Mysterious 
Cardo Chardon Disenwolle, perhaps 
beter known as the Thistledown. This 
may be his crowning effort and will 
no doubt, shed a little light on his 
identity.
The Squeak, as in former years, will 
be published under the direction of 
the Pi Delta Epsilon, Men’s Journal­
istic honorary, with the co-operation 
of the Alpha Chi Alpha, the Women’s 
Journalistic fraternity.
This year’s Squeak is to be edited 
by Tom Brown with the able assist­
ance of Ruth Bramson and Helen 
Booth. The business affairs of the pa­
per will be under the direction of G. 
V. Becker.
The Squeak is to be published
Campus Week will see Carnegio 
Tech in a new light—not a place of 
books and terrifying exams, 
scene of beautiful, glittering, 
multicolored lights, flooding the 
lawns, buildings, walks, driveways, 
dance halls with effects typifying the 
spirit of Campus Week. Each walk 
and driveway will be provided with 
subdued red light—enough to out-do 
the moonlight in its effectiveness for 
the promenades which will be plenti­
ful. Carnegie’s most beautiful build­
ing—the Arts School, will be flood­
lighted in such a way as to show off 
every architecturual detail, and will 
stand out, white and alone, at the 
head of the campus. The most out­
standing building—Machinery Hall, 
will be lighted from within the tower 
and from convenient corners, in such 
way that all Pittsburgh will know 
it is Campus Week at Carnegie. Tha 
doors of the new gym will be flood­
lighted, to show off each couple as 
they arive for the Coronation Dance.
The coronation ceremony will be 
colorful and impressive in more ways 
than one. The costumes will be new 
and beautiful; the story of the pag­
eant will be entertaining and unique; 
and finally, each character will be 
played up by white or colored lights 
as she performs her role. The steps 
of Machinery Hall, home of the engi­
neers, will be gayly decorated for the 
occasion, and the throne of our Cam­
pus Queen will be appropriately 
lighted. Beams, flood-lights, colored 
lenses, special reflectors, and other 
modern devices will be used unspar­
ingly to make this ceremony a crown­
ing success.
After the ceremony, revelers will 
adjourn to dance in the Union and 
the gym. Not the Union and the gym 
we are accustomed to seeing, but a 
Campus Week Union and gym, deco­
rated by every device an ingenious 
committee has been able to think of, 
and lighted as might be a scene from 
the Arabian Nights. The orchestra 
will occupy a space in the center of 
the gym, and around and above them 
will be festoons of white and colored 
lights, synchronized into harmony 
with the decorations. One wall will 
be flood-lighted, to give tone to the 
effect. Other interesting means of 
lighting the gym are planned, but not 
yet divulged. For the Union, If pres­
ent plans are successful, remains 
the "piece de resistance” of the even­
ing. It is planned by certain Eta 
Kappa Nu students to build a crystal 
reflector, to rotate, and shimmer, and 
light, and shadow the Union with a 
myriad of colors and shades, fitting 
to the spirit of the evening.
This entire program of Campus 
Week lighting will bo planned and ex- 
ecuted by Eta Kappa Nu, honorary 
electrical engineering fraternity. The 
expense for certain of the equipment 
may be rather high, but by making 
as many as possible of the devices in 
the school shops, Eta Kappa Nu hopes 
to keep expense within hounds. The 
chairman of the UglMffg committee 
is M. R. Brice of Eta Kappa Nu, Tau 
Beta Pi, Phi Sigma Kappa. The sub­
chairman is G. M. Cooper, also of Eta 
Kappa Nu and Phi Sigma Kappa. The 
various duties are In charge of the 
following committees: Machinery
Hall Tower—Sherman, Chamberlain, 
Cooper; Gym and Union—Cole, Hill, 
Ransom, White; Outdoors — Putt, 
Page, Callan; Coronation—Lockwood, 
Baughman.
Campus Week Awards
Campus Quceu.............................Elizabeth McFadden
HONORARY CALLS
Mortar Board ..............................................................................................
Dragons ..........................................................i..............................................
Delta Skull..................................................................-....................................
Druids...............................................................................................................
Pi Delta Epsilon.............................................................................................
Alpha Chi Alpha............................................................................................
Scabbard and Blade......................................................................................
GIRLS’ SWEEPSTAKES
Race ...................................................................................................................
Costume ......................................................................................................
MEN’S SWEEPSTAKES
Race ............................................................................................................
Design................................................................................................................
Record of Campus Week 
Made Easy by Form Blank
The Tartan offers to its readers a 
novel scheme for keeping an acccnmi 
of some of the high lights in campus 
week. On the page with this notice 
appears a blank with provision tor 
recording the names of those called 
to the various honoraries and' also th/s. 
men's nnd girls’ sweepstakes wrmmirs, 
With this arrangement the nam«:? can 
be filled in at the time of the- eTftnJ 
and then clipped from the- paptKT 
safe keeping.
KING LEAR TO OPEN IN 
LITTLE THEATER APR. 25
Shakespeare lovers and patrons ol 
Carnegie's Little Theater will receive 
with interest the announcement fry 
the Drama Department of a produc­
tion of King Lear which is to be 
staged by E. Martin Brown: Per­
formances will begin on Wednesday, 
April 25 and continue through AprS 
26, 27, 28, 30, and May 1, 2; 7, 8. 
There will bo no performances dar­
ing Campus Week. The selection eS 
King Lear for this year’s Shakespeare 
offering comes as a welcome one t© 
those who are especially interested ia 
this phase of the Drama Department 
work; for King Lear is regarded by 
many noted critics as Shakespeare's 
greatest tragedy. Many believe that 
it is in King Lear that he reaches his 
greatest heights as a dramatist and 
as a poet. King Lear is also one o£ 
Slcakespeare’s best known plays and 
a favorite with many great Shakes­
pearean actors. The cast for the play 
has been carefully selected and in­
cludes drama students who are fami3- 
lar figures on the Little Theater stage. 
The following have been choserir 
Donald B. Willson, Thomas Fisher, 
Herman Greenberg, Frank Sullivan, 
Thomas Lewis, Walter B. Rogers, 
Helene Gregg, Josephine Copas, Mar 
garet Werts, Irene Todrow, Irene 
Kosinsky and Irma Weinberg.
ORDERS FOR COMMENCEMENT 
INVITATIONS TO BE TAKE«
Orders for invitations to the 3923 
commencement exercises will ba> 
taken tomorrow, April 25, in Adminfev 
(ration Hall, formerly known as Cara- 
tral Building. All seniors are urged 
to attend to the matter of ordering 
their invitations at this time. Two 
typos of invitations can bo purchased 
and sample covers of each will be on 
hand; the one cover of blue leather 
costs 45 cents and the white card­
board cover costs 25 cents. Money 
must bo deposited with each order.
on Scholarships, Grants and Prizes 
will place this in some selected high 
school outside of Allegheny county.
All Carnegie to Welcome 
President Baker Thursday
J. A. BRASHEAR SCHOLARSHIP
APPROVED BY COMMITTEE
The Executive Board and the Board 
of Trustees have approved the estab­
lishment of a scholarship to be known 
as the John Alfred Brashear Scholar­
ship. It will consist of the remission 
of the full tuition fee of $300 for the 
Freshman year only. The Committee
twice, Thursday and Friday, May 3 
and 4. The matter of delivery will 
be handled the same as in former 
years, that of delivering the paper to 
the various fraternities in the morn­
ing. The price will remain the same 
as before, 5 cents a copy.
Corrected fraternity Directory
Acacia, 807 South Millvale..................................................................Sc.
Alpha Sigma Phi, 5601 Wilkins..........................................................Sc.
Alpha Tau Omega, 435 North Neville...............................................Ma.
Beta Sigma Rho, 5437 Aylesboro........................................................Sc.
Beta Theta Pi, 5549 Forbes Street....................................................Sc.
Delta Mu, 1655 Shady Avenue............................................................Ha.
Delta Phi Delta, 5031 Bayard............................................................Sc.
Delta Tau Delta, 630 Clyde..................................................................Sc.
Delta Upsilon, 5035 Forbes................................................................Sc.
Phi Kappa, 4742 Center Avenue........................................................Sc.
Phi Kappa Psi, 4817 Center Avenue.................................................Sc.
Phi Sigma Kappa, 1408 Wightman.......................................................Sc.
Pi Kappa Alpha, 4807 Baum................................................................Sc.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon, 4915 Forbes....................................................Sc.
Sigma Phi Epsilon, 4929 Forbes........................................................Sc.
Sigma Nu, 4921 Forbes.......................................................................Ma.
Theta Xi, 5017 Forbes...........................................................................Sc.
Kappa Sigma, 624 Clyde.....................................................................Sc.
Kappa Sigma Rho, 444 Amberson......................................................Sc.
9783
9841
5058
9846
1490
9345
9791
9415
9082
9739
9675
9843
9806
9211
9122
8321
9143
9774
9127
The students of Carnegio Tech will 
welcome home the president of their 
institution at a student reception to 
bo held Thursday at 12:15 in front of 
the Central Building. Dr. Baker is 
to return on the Isle de France the 
night of April 24, from a prolonged 
journey in Europe. Dr. Baker went 
to Europe seeking foreigners who 
were interested in the Coal Confer­
ence. The R. O. T. C. will draw up 
in ranks in front of the Administra­
tion Hall. The students from all 
colleges on the campus will assemble 
In the same place to extend their wel­
come to President Baker. Donald 
Putt, president of Student Council 
will call President Baker from his of­
fice and bring him out to face the en­
tire student body who are going to 
receive him with cheers and the warm 
spirit of welcome. Student Council 
is supervising the reception and will 
give a Council reception for Dr. Bak­
er in the next week.
SCHOLARSHIP FOR JUNIORS
OFFERED BY ALMUNI ASSOC.
Application forms for the George H. 
Smith Scholarship, awarded annually 
to a junior by the Alumni Association 
of the College of Engineering, may be 
obtained at the Alumni Office, Room 
206, in the Gymnasium Building. The 
applications must be filled out with 
the information required and returned 
to the Alumni Office by May 15.
The scholarship, amounting to $100, 
is given each year to a member of the 
Junior class in the College of Engin­
eering. In awarding it the scholastic 
standing, financial need, personality, 
and participation in school and clasa 
activities are concidered. No student 
who has incurred a serious school 
censure is eligible as a candidate for 
the scholarship; nor is any student 
eligible who obtains leave of absence 
from college for the year in which the 
scholarship would be payable.
POSITION-SEEKING NIGHT
STUDENTS SEE MR. KRISTOF
The final interviews for night 
school students will he held next 
Thursday evening, April 26, from 7 
till 9 o’clock. This date will also mark 
the closing of the second semester of 
the night school. After this date 
night students who are still unem­
ployed and are seeking positions 
should see B. J. Kristof in the Em­
ployment Bureau any time during the 
day from 9 to 5 o'clock.
010202250000010002000002010002010035010000013519010000010201003500010202010225014802000001000200
020000000201482501010102010000000101010000010101350001000100000102020102010001000101000101010000
010201000125350225352501000201022535488935254825352535253525000100010201020201020100010201000002010000010201020135352548254825352535253548

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, APRIL 24, 1928
FRANK & SEHER
Directory Issue of 
Alumnus is to be 
Mailed This Week
Serviceable Number of Alum­
nus Has Several Different 
Classifications
FORMER SHOW STAR
In a few dnyii or prjrlmpB ovon bo- 
fore mi,is paper reaches you, the mein- 
bora of the Alumni Association who 
havo paid' their duos up to the present 
time will receive the Directory Num­
ber of the Carnegie Alumnus. This 
la a regular issue of the Alumnus and 
will be sent, as said before, to all 
who have paid their Alumni dues up 
to the present time, any Alumni that 
are delinquent but wisli a copy of the 
directory can secure one for one dol­
lar by sending their orders to Miss 
Andrews in the Gym. This is possible 
as there will be a few extra copies 
after the regular issue is mailed.
Two thousand copies of the Dlrec* 
tory will bo mailed on Monday or 
Tuesday to all parts of the country. 
It was Intended to have the Directory 
sent out at the first of tills week but 
this was impossible due to a delay of 
the printers. All of the credit for ar­
ranging and distributing this issue is 
duo to the work of Misa Andrews, the 
Alumni Secretary. For nearly a 
month she lias worked tirelessly in 
order that the Directory might come 
out on time.
The Directory thia year is a very 
large one due to the increased num­
ber of alumni and the different classi­
fications. There are seventy-five 
pages with very little advertising, in 
fact only six pages of it. In the front 
of the Directory are: the officers of 
the school, the Alumni Federation 
Board of Governors and honorary 
members of the Carnegie Alumni Fed­
eration, the College Association Rep­
resentatives, the Board of Trustees, 
and the members of the various com­
mittees.
On the second page is the program 
for wliat will bo the most important 
event of the 1928-1929 school year as 
far as tho alumni are concerned. The 
Alumni Homecoming which has taken 
the place oi Campus Week in the 
hearts of the Alumni will be held Fri­
day, Saturday, and Sunday, October 
26 to 28. The program includes an 
Alumni Federation mooting, an In­
spection of the school, an Alumni Din­
ner and an Alumni Dance all on Fri­
day. On Saturday: Class Reunions, 
the Pitt and Tech football game (no 
true Carnegie man or woman will 
miss this traditional battle), and 
dances in the Union and in all of the 
fraternities. The wook-end of the 
Pitt-Tech gamo was soloctod by the 
Alumni Federation Board of Governors 
as tho most suitablo time to hol'd this 
Second Annual Alumni Homecoming. 
Thia will bo atrlctly an alumni affair. 
Tho Tartan will contain from time to 
time further details of this coming 
event.
A revised elan directory is also in­
cluded in this issue. There are now 
32 clans ranging from Southern Cali­
fornia to Boston, tho newest being tho 
Milwaukee Clan.
Tho first classification is tho alpha* 
botlcul list and covers 21 pages. Just 
tho name and class Is given. Tho 
married name Is given after tho 
maiden name in parenthesis. Those 
¦who have died are marked on tills list 
and those whom the Alumni Associa­
tion hi;a lost track of are marked 
lost, not to tho world perhaps but to 
the alumni office. Any alumni who 
reads this list, and finds that the 
Alumni Association lias lost trace of 
them should immediately send Ills ad- 
, dress and alumni dues to Miss An­
drews, tho Alumni Secretary. At the 
end of tlxis list Is a Carnegie Loyalty 
Bond Subscription which can be used 
for a worthy purpose.
The second arrangement is accord­
ing to colleges.
Mary Speers, Queen of 1925 Campus 
Week, Also Falls Prey to Dan Cupid;
1925 CAMPUS QUEEN
The search for information about the Y. W. C. A. Among her athletic
OBIE NEWMAN
Improvements on Campus 
Will Interest All Alumni
our former Campus Week queens has 
proved fruitful once more, and this 
time we are to publish not only the 
story but also the picture oi our queen 
of 1925. So far we have found that 
our former Campus Week reigning 
beauties are all active since leaving 
school, and the subject of our present 
story is no exception.
The queen whom most of you know 
as Mary Speers, but who now has 
taken as her name Mrs. Howdy Dyke- 
man, has also embarked upon the sea 
of matrimony. The fortunate fellow 
most of you will remember as one of 
our outstanding track stars of a few 
years ago.
Mary was Queen in 1925, when she 
won the honors after a close and hot 
competition. She was a member of 
the Secretarial Course in Margaret 
Morrison, and was very active in class 
activities, holding the office of presi­
dent. In addition, she was a member 
of the Margaret Morrison Guild, and
activities were basket ball, volley ball 
and swimming.
After her graduation at Carnegie, 
Mary worked for about a year with 
the General Refractories Company in 
Pittsburgh. Then she worked in New 
York for a short time, and also with 
Dr. Edniundson of Pittsburgh.
But of course, the same thing hap­
pened to Mary that is liable to happen 
to any good Campus Queen. Dan Cu­
pid did hi$ part, and of course Howdy 
Dykeman also helped out, and in little 
over a year from the time she left 
school Mary and Howdy were married. 
Then for a time they lived in Wheel­
ing, West Virginia, but moved back to 
Pittsburgh, where they are now living 
in Mt. Lebanon.
And so we leave another of our for­
mer Campus Queens. We are happy 
to say that Mary and Howdy are hap­
py with their little son; and leaving 
them, our search will go on to the last 
of our series.MARY SPEERS
Alumni who return to the campus 
this Campus Week will note many 
changes in and about the buildings. 
Many improvements have been made 
both in the interior and the exterior 
of the school.
The most noticeable change which 
greets the eye from the Industries hill 
is the new street which has been cut 
through behind Langley Lab. Recent­
ly traffic signals have been placed in 
front of Margaret Morrison and In­
dustries Building, sending traffic over 
the new street, and keeping it off the 
campus. The new street is very wide, 
and permits quite a few machines to 
park along both sides. In addition, 
it has helped to improve the appear­
ance of the campus, since the ground 
between this street and Arts School 
has been leveled and is now being 
sown in grass.
To those alumni who have not been 
on the campus since last Campus 
Week the concrete walk out the cut 
will be an innovation, and it proves 
a boon in wet weather, far superior 
to the old slag walk. And then of 
course the general appearance of the 
campus is Improving, with the plant­
ing of more shrubbery, the growth of 
the trees, and the untiring efforts of 
Fritz and his cohorts under the direc­
tion of Colonel Fairley.
Langley Lab has once more under­
gone some changes. The old Beanery 
has been moved back farther, and the 
automobile shop Is now located in the 
middle of tho building. Several Arts 
School classes occupy another part of 
the building.
Our Printing Department has grown 
considerably since its affiliation with 
I,lie United Typothetae, until now it 
takes up a good portion of tho upper 
end of Industries.
Central Building is no longer
Alumni Office is to 
Handle Alumni Tags 
For Campus Week
Paid Up Members Eligible 
to Obtain Two Tags For 
Ninth C. W.
Saturday. In addition, a matinee will 
be given Saturday afternoon. The 
performance Friday night is to be 
student night. Both the cast and the 
stage staff have already been working
saying “Administration Hall for In­
formation.” But of course they mean 
what you and I know is Central Build­
ing. Administration Hall does sound 
better, though, doesn’t it? 
diligently on the production, and it is j We met Fritz> the gardener, at the 
planned to make this the best Cam-; Exhibition the other night, and he was 
pus Week show yet produced. , so ¿resse(i up we hardly knew him. |
Details of the various events may We’re used to seeing him in his kahkl
Another Campus Week is nearly 
upon us, and anticipation on the cam­
pus is running high. We can merely 
conjecture as to how many of you 
alumni are planning to return to the 
campus tliis year, but we hope a good 
representation will be here.
As in previous years, the Alumni 
Office will handle the orders for Cam­
pus Week tags and play tickets. 
Cards have been mailed out to the 
alumni with information concerning 
tags and tickets, and these are to be 
returned to the Alumni office.
The rule adhered to other years 
that tags may be obtained only by 
paid up members will be in force this 
year also. However, those who are 
not paid up and wish to attend Cam­
pus Week, may do so by sending in 
$'1.00 which will make them a mem­
ber of the Alumni Federation. Such 
members will be credited for the rest i
be found in the other stories in this 
issue of the Tartan. We hope to see 
a large number of the alumni present 
this year, and we feel sure that those 
who do attend will have an enjoyable 
time. The committee, consisting of 
the following members, invites you to 
join with us in our ninth Campus 
Week: Logan T. Johnston, chair­
man; Miss Charlotte Shuman, Miss 
Josephine Whitney, Mr. Clarence 
Overend.
Ye Editor Says:
Campus Week will soon be upon us 
again. Are you all set for it? Cards 
are being sent out to all alumni, in 
order that they may make reserva­
tions. Be sure to send yours in 
promptly.
Hope you found this second alumni 
page alright. I don’t know why they 
gave us two pages separated this way,
but I guess we’ll have to take what we “1U,“U''1 “ " “* ‘¦'v> v" *-wi k'“'- * 1 p,g|. of this year and also the next year,We’re getting quite ritzy now. The 
bulletin boards outside have been 
painted, and on each there is a notice
July 1, 1928 to June 30, 1929. This 
entitles the member to the monthly 
issue of the Alumnus and the Tartan, 
which comes out weekly. We feel 
that all alumni should join the Fed-j 
eration whether they intend coming j 
to the Campus Week celebration or j 
not, since it ties them up with the ‘ 
other alumni.
The price of the tags will be one I 
dollar a piece, as in other years. All I 
orders niust bo accompanied by a.
overalls out on the cut. j
Wonder if there will be any cara­
vans coming to Campus Week like 
there were last year. How about it, 
Clans? Do you think you can get a 
group of cars to come next week back 
to Dear Old Tech?
The Coronation this year will be 
held down in front of Machinery Hall, 
because of the better view that wiTl 
be affoj’ded the audience. Likewise, 
it will be held before the dance in 
place of after.
Speaking of queens, our series of 
stories on former queens, is complete 
with the exception of one more, which 
we will try to print next week. How 
did you like the series? It was the 
suggestion of an alumnus. Let us 
have more such suggestions. We 
want to print the things that will in­
terest you, and the best way to find 
out what interests you is to have sug­
gestions from you.
All you fraternity men should come 
back in time for the Migratory dance 
on Wednesday evening. All the frats 
are having dances that night.
Although there is no Mardi Gras 
this year, there are numerous new 
events to fill in the program, and will 
make Campus Week just a little dif-
Varsity Clan Party 
For Athletic Teams 
Proved Big Success
All we’ve got to say is that the Var­
sity Clan sure knows how to throw a 
party. And that of course includes 
Bill Finkel, president of the Clan, 
through whose efforts the big theater 
party was staged last Monday night. 
Any of the members of our teams will 
support our above statements.
The theater party wnich the clan 
had was an annual affair for the mem­
bers of Carnegie Tech teams, but this 
is the first year it has ever taken the 
form of a theater party, and also the 
first time it has ever included so 
many guests. Included in the teams 
invited were the football team, the 
basketball team, swimming, track, 
cross-country, and rifle, as well as the 
managers and coaches of these teams. 
The managers and coaches of the 
freshman football team were also 
among the guests.
The party was held at the Pitt the-, 
ater at a showing of the play “The 
Clutching Claw,” a thrilling murder 
mystery. Every one present enjoyed 
the show immensely.
Between the first and second acts 
Bill Finkel addressed a few words to 
the audience, thanking them for their 
support in making a success of the 
affair, and welcoming the members of 
the teams present. He also attempt­
ed to call upon some of the members 
of the teams to rise and let them­
selves be known, but they seemed 
rather bashful.
All in all, the affair was a great 
success, as all the Varsity Clan af­
fairs have been, and once more we 
take off our hat to Bill Finkel and his 
assistants for the excellent way in 
which they handled things.
ferent this year.
The articles from the Employment 
Bureau on page two should interest 
the alumni. Mr. Beatty has been 
working hard to make the Bureau a 
success, and has done remarkably 
well, considering the conditions in the 
business world today. Be sure to 
drop in and see him when you are 
around. He has an excellent staff 
working under him also, consisting of 
Benny Kristof, whom many of you re­
member as a football star several 
years ago, and Miss Merrill and Miss 
Trimble.
The Varsity Clan theater party sure 
went across with a bang. It was one 
of the best attended affairs ever held 
by any clan. Plenty of our .athletes 
there too.
I check to cover tho amount of the or-j 
Con- tjor anti ai80 ]jy a self addressed, 
trnl Building, but Is now known as Ad- j stamped envelope, so that the reser- 
mlnistration Hall. Likewise, Science i vution card may be mailed. Tickets 
School Is Mnginoering Hall. Tho of- Jind tags will not be mailed to anyone/ 
llcos ln Administration Hall have re- jJU| must bo called for at the Alumni 
contly received some brand now «old office, K00m 200, Gymnasium Build- 
lettering, and all in all tho building I jnK Orders will bo ready for distri- 
RSSRFU In tip top shape. . button by Monday, April 30, and for
Various other minor Improvements | ^jlc oonvenionce of those who cannot
call for their orders through the day, 
the Alumni Office .will bo open on
have boon made, all adding to tho 
bettering of our school. Alumni re­
turning for Campus Week should noto J Tuesday evening, April 29, from seven 
those changes and make suggestions jQ ,njne o’clock. Alumni headquarters 
as to further improvements. Wo on | N888 jje maintained as usual in the
the campus become so accustomed to 
things as they are that wo do not 
note improvements that should be 
made.
the main floor ofTrophy Room c 
the Gymnasium.
The tags will admit one to all 
events except the show, which re­
quires separate tickets. However, if 
there is anyone who wishes to attend 
the show without obtaining tags, he
______ may order these alone. Each alumnus
(Continued from Page One) * entitled to two tags, one for him- 
In each college men | the test our entire educational sys- !se,f a,,d 0,10 for a trlent1’ sweetheart,
CARNEGIE FOUNDATION GIV­
ING TESTS TO LEARN ABOUT
SCHOOLS AND SCHOLARS
are arranged according to the year that j tem ¡u important respects. They will 
they graduated. Women are listed by | show whether the college process at 
their present names, if married their Carnegie is profitably organized tomaiden names appear in parenthesis. 
The College of Engineering contains 
14 pages of names. The College of In­
dustries’ list is nine pages long.
Seven pages of Arts School gradu­
ates and ten pages of Margaret Mor­
rison Alumni complete this section.
The 1928 football schedule is in­
cluded on one of the last pages. This 
should undoubtably be of great inter­
est and helpfulness to all who receive 
the Alumni Directory.
University of Minnesota.—A trac­
tor with a self-steering device was 
displayed at tho University of Minne­
sota recently.
serve the needs of the students; the 
results will also demonstrate whether 
Carnegie as compared with other col­
leges gives a good training for a life’s 
work.
The test will give the student an 
opportunity to air his views as to the 
value of certain courses in the cur­
riculum and will give the school a 
check on its ideas as to what a proper 
course is.
Whether or not the test will pro 
duce a change in the educational sys­
tem of the State, it will bring more 
light on the methods and results of the 
present system.
COMING!
To Syria Mosque the Week of April 30 
The Kaufmann Players in
“THE RED WIDOW”
A scLritilliuit musical comedy with tunciul melo­
dies, spritel'y daueing', and plenty of pulchritude. 
Under the direction of Frank W. Shea.
For the Kaufmann Employes’ Beneficial and 
Protective Association.
Tickets 50c to $2.50 
Box office in Travel Bureau, Fifth Avenue Balcony 
KAUFMANN’S
or wife. The schedule of prices for 
the show will be noted on the cards 
sent out
Those among the alumni who are 
fraternity men will want to return 
Wednesday for the Migratory dance, 
which is one of the highlights of the 
week, and they will have an oppor­
tunity to meet some of their old bud­
dies and some of the new brothers.
Thursday will see the annual Quali­
fications, Calls, and other activities, 
and in the evening the Coronation 
dance. This year it is planned to 
have the coronation take place before 
the dance, at about nine o’clock, and 
then have the dance from nine till 
two. Another important change will 
be the fact that the coronation will 
take place on Machinery Hall steps 
in place of the Sylvan Theater, where 
it has always been difficult to obtain 
a view of the proceedings.
Friday there will be some new 
events, which the committee is not 
inclined to give out as yet, but which 
promise to make the affair different. 
The R. O. T. C. will also stage a re­
view on Friday.
The two shows given each Campus 
Woolf will be given this year also. On i 
Thursday morning the Vaudeville, or 
Vodvill show will bo resented at the 
I Music Hall, and work has already 
¡been put upon the show to make it 
better than ever. A bevy of our beau- 
| ties have been practicing for the j 
I chorus, which promises to rival some 
j of our downtown theaters. The regu­
lar Campus Week show, “Wedding 
j Bells,” is to be presented three nights 
this year, at the Gayety Theater. The 
three nights are Thursday, Friday and
AN INVITATION
to the Entire Student Body 
of Carnegie Tech
You are cordially invited 
to attend a special exhi­
bition of authentic college 
clothing depicting the new 
notes in men’s wear, as 
favored by the leading uni­
versities—and shown in—
LEARBURY
Authentic College Clothing
Wednesday, Thursday, Friday 
April 25, 26, 27
WEBSTER HALL
ROOM 236
Your favorite Football stars will be on 
hand to greet you---including Fred 
Harpster of Tech.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, APRIL 24, 1928THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE FIVE
A Course in Hand­
ling Money
The formation of a banking 
connection early in life is an 
indispensable >part of your 
education.
The experience in handling 
money, the friendly advice of 
specialists trained to meet 
every type of financial prob­
lem, will enable you to make 
the most of your allowance 
now, and will eventually help 
you to success in whatever 
line of work you may follow.
Mellon Naiional Bank
h. Pa.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
FIVE ENTRANTS CHOSEN 
FOR GIRLS’ SWEEPSTAKESHistory Shows Interesting Progress in 
Evolution of Campus Week Activtiies
Best Co-ed Costume Will Receive 
Prize; Race Starts at 9:30 
Friday Morning
Ten days remain between now and 
that eventful morning of the sweep­
stakes, May 4. The five girls chosen 
to take part in the race are using 
their spare time in preparing for the 
great event. Strenuous training 
measures have been adopted by all 
the contestants. If you want to see 
an excellent demonstration of one of 
the greatest of the international 
sports, come and see the girls’ race 
on—but it is a great secret which 
cannot be told. A word of warning: 
all spectators must refrain from 
crowding the tracks, for the racers 
will require, in fact demand all the 
space possible.
Another thing that has been ob­
served on the campus is the great in­
terest in costumes. You see, all the 
contestants in the race are to design 
their own costumes. The best will 
will a prize. Many mysterious bun­
dles and packages are being carried 
to the sewing rooms in Margaret 
Morrison. What they contain is not 
known but it is believed that the 
girls have already started on their 
costumes. A Tartan reporter ven­
tured into the busy sewing room but 
all that she could report was that the 
girls were too busy to answer ques­
tions, and nothing could be seen but 
needles and clever remarks flying in 
all directions. Well, the cutest cos­
tume wins the prize.
From the discussion and interest, 
one would imagine the winner was to 
receive a million dollars. While the 
prize is not quite so large, competi­
tion is just as intense as if it were. 
The winner of the sweepstakes re­
ceives a silver cup. This cup was pre­
sented by the Architectural Society 
fco belong permanently to the group 
winning the race three times out of 
five. Forbes Hall and Woodlawn 
DormsL have each won it twice. If 
either of these houses should win it 
this year they will keep it perma­
nently. However, Mellon Hall, Forbes 
street Dorms, and the Arts and Mar­
garet Morrison commuters are also to 
be reckoned with. They all have very 
exceptional entrants. The contestants 
in the race and the group they rep­
resent are: Forbes Hall, Betty Mul­
ler; Mellon Hall, Madeline Ferguson 
with Florence Crabb as alternate; 
Forbes street Dorms, Pauline Kra­
mer; Woodlawn Dorms, Jane Core 
and Gladys Foster for alternate; and 
M. M. commuters, Kay O’Donnell with 
Claire Ward for alternate. The Arts 
commuters’ candidate has not been 
elected as yet.
The costumes will be judged by 
Miss Green, Miss Alexander and Miss 
Seaman. A prize, given by the W. A. 
A-, will be presented for the best cos­
tume.
On Friday morning at 9:30 the girls 
will appear in their costumes in front 
of the Central Building to race from 
there to the Senior fence and back. 
It is not so much • a race as it is a 
slide, rush, charge, push or what have 
you. The event will be known, how­
ever, as the Ski-bo dash. Excellent 
entertainment is assured to all spec­
tators and also for the contestants.
Gertrude Zenk is chairman of the 
Women’s Sweepstakes Committee. 
The following girls are on her com­
mittee: Forbes, Ruth Seitz; Mellon
Hall, Ann Hall; Forbes street Dorms, 
Mary Hall; Woodlawn Dorms, Agnes 
Buckley; Margaret Morrison Com­
muters, Helen Whitehill; and Arts 
Commuters, Harriet Hanna. These 
girls collected ten cents from every 
girl. The committee has been working 
hard to make the sweepstakes a suc­
cess.
Now that the spirit of Campus 
Week is in the air it might be in­
teresting to some to know of the past 
Campus Week celebrations. In the 
year 1920 the seniors suggested that 
there ought to be some event that 
the alumni could attend and meet 
their old classmates. The idea of 
calling It Campus Week was thought 
of although it did not occupy a whole 
week. Every year there have been 
changes made so that now there are 
only a few events that were original­
ly on the program.
During Campus Week the honorary 
class fraternities make their calls, 
then there are other honorary and 
professional fraternities that take 
men on Tap Day as it was called. 
This was done before there ever was 
a Campus Week celebration. This 
event was made part of Campus 
Week.
Every June when the freshmen 
class finishes its first year a link is 
welded to the Carnegie chain. The 
first class to do this was the class of 
190S. When Campus Week was start­
ed this ceremony was put on the pro­
gram. Every June the freshman class 
is welcomed to the Carnegie Clan and 
then their link is welded on the Car­
negie chain. There are always three 
i^nks on this chain (that are not 
stamped. When one link is put on 
then a link is stamped with the 
numerals of the gradaating class.
There have been various changes to 
make the celebration more enjoyable 
to the students and the aiumni. Some 
events have been eliminated and 
others added to take their place. At 
the first two Campus Week celebra­
tions there was a circus held in the 
bowl on the last day of the events. 
In 1922 the Campus Week Show re­
placed the circus. In 1925 a musical 
review took the place of the play for 
just one year.
The one big tiling of Campus Week 
is the election of the Queen who 
reigns during the celebration. Be­
fore there was a celebration such as 
we are about to give, the schools used 
to elect a girl who was the most beau­
tiful. This was called the Beauty 
Contest. In 1921 the girl elected was
* called the Queen of the Mardi Gras, 
j It was thought that the name did not 
j include enough so the next girl 
I elected was called the Campus Queen. 
I During the first celebration a pa- 
i rade. or “peerade" as it was called, 
j was held. The parade was made up 
! of floats. Each fraternity had an j elaborate float. Some of the depart- 
I ments also had floats, and pleasure 
| cars were in this parade. The school 
furnished bangers for the machines 
i so that as the parade made its way 
j through downtown Pittsburgh the 
people would know that Carnegie was 
| going to celebrate Campus Week.
! There have been a number of in- 
i teresting thing that have happened 
! in year gone by. One year the girls 
¡’had the use of their gymnasium and 
j a slumber party was held. This was 
j given for the benefit of the girls who 
j lived off the campus. One year dur- 
i ing the interfraternity sweepstakes 
| the following rule was held. During 
I the race each car had to enter the 
I pit and change the left rear wheel to 
; the right side and the right wheel to 
! the left side.
J In the Campus Week of 192G the 
i “Campus Squeak” appeared. The 
paper appeared every day during the 
celebration, taking the place of the 
“Campus Courier”. Unlike the 
“Courier" the “Squeak’’ only contain­
ed material of a comic feature.
Providence, R. I.—After fighting a 
fire in a Brown University college 
hall, Fire Chief Frank A. Charles- 
worth of the Providence fire depart­
ment cast an interesting sidelight on 
campus fires when he talked with a 
reporter from the Brown Daily Her­
ald.
“A different class of men are in the 
colleges now than there used to be 
in the old days and it is lucky for the 
fire departments that there is,” he 
said.
The chief was talking with a group 
of older men who have been on the 
scene of action at every Providence 
fire for many years, and they recalled 
several campus fires in the old days 
at which the firemen were hindered 
by the student pranks, such as tying 
the ladders to the trucks, or starting 
the horse trucks into a gallop.
The chief continued, “I remember
Site Of Qualification 
Exercises Is Changed
The Campus Week qualifications 
exercises, which were originally 
scheduled to take place on the grass, i 
plot adjoining the tennis courts, will 
be held in the Tech Bowl as in pre- j 
vious years. This change was an­
nounced last Saturday by Wayne ! 
High, chairman of the Qualifications j 
Committee. Temporary bleachers will j 
be erected in the bowl to take care | 
of the crowd.
The ritual for the exercises will be 
much the same as in other years. 
The Freshmen will gather in front of 
the Central Building at 1:30 p. m., 
Thursday and will march to the scene 
of the ordeal. The women are all to 
be: costumed in white, but the men's 
costumes are to be left to their own 
choice. One of the outstanding fea­
tures of the procession will be a cas­
ket carrying “Old Man Plebe Regu­
lations.’’ It is to be borne by six 
Pl'ebe pallbearers and will be followed 
by six mourners. The newly elected 
officers of the class will lead the pro­
cession. When the procession reach­
es the bowl the casket will be placed 
in a grave; then the Plebes will file 
past, each one depositing some re­
minder of regulations, as dinks, black 
ties, arm bands, etc., in the grave. 
When this ceremony is completed the 
casket will be covered over and Reg­
ulations will be buried forever. The 
Plebes will assemble again and will 
be welcomed as full-fledged members 
of the Carnegie Clan by Donald Putt, 
retiring president of the Student 
Council. One of the members of the 
Freshman class, not yet selected, will 
respond for the class of ’31. The ’31 
link will then be welded onto the 
chain.
James Austraw, president of the 
Dragons, will then make the calls for 
the lionoraries. Those honoraries 
calling are: Dragons, senior class
honorary; Delta Skull, junior class 
honorary; Druids, sophomore class 
honorary; Pi Delta Epsilon, men’s 
journalistic honorary; Alpha Chi Al­
pha, women’s journalistic honorary; 
and Mortar Board, women’s senior 
honorary.
The Qualifications Committee is 
composed of Wayne High, chairman; 
Henrietta Accipeter, Isabel Warner,
Former Show Star ^
. ¦
ELEANOR LEWIS
Returns to Campus
DR. THOMAS S. BAKER
Dr. Baker Arrives Here 
Today From European Tour
Dr. Thomas S. Baker, president of 
Carnegie Tech, following a six weeks 
tour of the principal- countries of 
Europe, is due to return to Pittsburgh 
today. Dr. $aker sailed from I-Iarve, 
France, in April 18, on the “Isle de 
France,” and arrived in New York 
yesterday.
The chief purpose of Dr. Baker's 
trip was .to arouse interest in the In­
ternational Coal Conference which is 
to be held at Carnegie Institute of 
Technology during the week of No­
vember 19, 1928. Relative to this he 
conferred with government officials 
and fuel technologists in England, 
France, Austria, Germany, and Bel­
gium, and from cabled reports has 
been extremely successful. Many 
noted experts on the subject have 
been secured as delegates to the con­
ference, although no definite informa1 
tiori is possible until the president’s re 
turn.
Early in March Dr. Baker delivered 
a series of four lectures in Paris un­
der the auspices of the Carnegie En 
dowment for International Peace. 
During the last week of his trip, lio 
toured Austria and Italy, returning 
again to Paris to sail.
Dr. Baker will be in his office again 
tomorrow.
University of Texas.—The Univer­
sity of Texas library requires nine 
miles of shelving for its 400,000 books 
and pamphlets necessary to serve 50 
departments.
Oberlin, Ohio. — Oberlin College 
students were embued with the spirit 
' of warm and sunny spring weather 
; last week, and in celebration thereof 
were planing an evening’s entertain­
ment in the 'form of an all-college 
skating party.j The town ratners permitted a street j 
| to be roped off from 7 to 8 p. m. The 
' faculty promised to join in the fun, 
and everything was all set.
I At 7 it began to rain. The rain 
j froze as it struck the earth. Tele- 
j phone and electric wires as well as 
j trees became coated with ice. At 8 
j o’clock the lights were out, trees were 
'crashing to the ground, and by morn- 
: ing the college campus was a sorrj 
| scene of wreck and ruin, piled high 
| with wires and limbs of giant and an- 
| cient elms.
University of Chicago. — Between 
$15,000 and $20,000 was lost by the 
University of Chicago when five 
armed men entered the business office 
of the university and scooped up the 
, money just delivered by an express 
company.
Jewel Bond, Phil Hubbard, and Jo­
seph Herbst.
:N330P:WLC3: 2S5GO30
Campus Week Program
when we lost plenty of hose in cam­
pus fires because tradition demanded 
of the students-that they cut the lines 
and let the buildings burn. Those 
days are gone forever I hope.”
Lincoln, Nebr.—“The majority of 
college marriages are a good thing,” 
said Judge Ben B. Lindsey, over the 
breakfast table to a Nebraska Daily 
reporter here recently.
“I do not advocate college mar­
riages just because companionate 
marriage would make it possible,” he 
continued. “Every case Is diffrent, 
but there are many cases where it is 
desirable. If the couple are earnest 
and sincere, and wish to be married, 
and their parents are willing that 
they should, then it will do much to 
improve the morality of our colleges 
and would help to do away with many 
abnormal and unhealthy cases.”
tiorqarcV
Hormon
WEDNESDAY, MAY 2
9:00 P. M......................................Migratory Dance
THURSDAY, MAY 3
10:00 A. M.................................................Yodvi! Show
1:30 P. M.............................................. Qualifications
3:00 P. M............................................Judging of Oars
3:30 P. M............Men’s Sweepstakes Preliminaries
9:00 P. M..................................Coronation Ceremony
9:30 P. M............................................Coronation Ball
FRIDAY, MAY 4
9:30 A. M......................................Oiris’ Sweepstakes.
10:30 A. M.........................Men’s Sweepstakes Finals
11:30 A. M...................R. O. T. C. Parade and Review
12:00 A. M............................Banquets, Luncheon, etc.
2 -00 P. M.-5:00 P. M............................Cabaret Dance
........Roller Skating Carnival
................................. Athletics
8:15 P. M.....................................Campus Week Show
AN ADDITION TO CAMEL SMOKE-LORE
H3 O5UDVY the «ad case of the freshman in zoology, wjio, when asked to 
describe a camel, said, “A camel is what you wish yon were smoking while 
you try to think of the right answers.” He flunked zoology—but he knew his 
cigarettes. For in time of trial or time of joy, there’s no friend like Camels.
Thfi subtle influences of choice tobaccos upon, the, smokc-spots of mankind 
have born carefully studied, identified, and blended smoothly into Camels 
—the finest of cigarettes. And we'll bet an alkaflitch on this: Camels have 
just the taste and aroma to pack your smoke-spot ivUh the “fill-fnllnic.nl7* 
every experienced smoker seeks. Col an alkuflUch you want to lose?
© 1928 R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, Winston-Salem, N. €.
I COSMOPOLITAN CLUB WILL
HOLD MEETING APRIL 28TH
The monthly meeting of the Cosmo­
politan Club will be held in the Mar- 
, garet Morrison Recreation Hall, Sat­
urday evening, April 28tli. The regu­
lar monthly business meeting will 
begin promptly at 8 o’clock and will 
, be followed by a social meeting.
The membership of the Cosmopoli­
tan Club is made up of the foreign 
students from both Carnegie Tech 
and the University of Pittsburgh. In 
the club there is at. least one repro- 
sentative of each of the diffrent na­
tionalities on the two campuses.
GEORGE ABRAMS
DEALER IN SECOND I-IAN1} 
CLOTHES 
1534 Center Avenue

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE SIXTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, APRIL 24, 1928
C. W. Show LeadFRIDAY MAY 4 IS 
STUDENT NIGHT AT 
CAMPUS WEEK SHOW
“Wedding Bells” Rehearsed 
Daily by Enthusiastic Cast 
For the Initial Performance
Curious Crowds Throng Labs and Studios
Of Four Schools on Annual Exhibition Night
UNDER DIRECTION OF 
CHESTER WALLACE
Fraternities and Alumni Are Urged 
to Place Orders for Tickets Now
CARLTTON YOUNG
Scabbard And Blade To Hold 
Convention At Ohio State
Scabbard and Blade, national mili­
tary honorary, will hold its sixteenth 
national convention at Ohio State Uni­
versity on Thursday, Friday and Sat­
urday, April 26, 27 and 28. Company 
M, First regiment, Ohio State Univer­
sity, will act as host.
Ambrose W. Staudt, captain of the 
local company, will De Carnegie's rep­
resentative at the conclave. Bartlett 
F. Carley lias been chosen alternate.
Among the nationally known mem­
bers scheduled to address the conven­
tion are: Major General Charles P.
Summcrall, chief of staff, IT. S. A.; 
Major General Dennis E. Nolan, com­
manding general Fifth Corps Area; 
Major General Benson W. Hough, fed­
eral judge, Southern district of Ohio, 
and commanding officer 37th Division, 
O. N. G.; Brigadier General Edward 
Orton, Jr., Q. M. C. Res., senior vice 
president R. O. A.; Colonel James B. 
,Gowon, chief of staff, Fifth Corps 
Area; Colonel Grosvernor L. Town­
send, commandant Ohio State Univer­
sity; Governor A. V. Donahey of Ohio; 
Lieutenanl Colonel William M. Mumm, 
M. Ï. Res., and Captain George L. 
parte, M. I. Res., secretary of Mili­
tary Order of the World War.
Plays in C. W. Show
MARGARET WERTS
Dr. Sclioen has recently had the 
following papers published: "Musical 
Talent and Its Measurement" in Mu­
sical Quarterly, "Art and Beauty” in 
School Music, and "Instinct and In­
telligence” In Psychological Review. 
Kegal Paul, London, announces his 
book on "The Beautiful in Music” in 
tin ’r spring list.
A a article with the title "A note on 
the rational plane quartie curve With 
cuspu or undulations'' by Dr. John H. 
Neelley will appear in the Bulletin of 
the American Mathematical Society 
in the immediate future.
FRANK BROTHERS
Riiila Avenamos Biooî Slhojp
JJcCwecn -17\!l and -18'Jl Streets, Nciy ^ork.
Pittsburgh Shop 
JENKINS ARCADE
The student performance of "Wed­
ding Bells,” the Campus Week show, 
will be given on Friday night, May 4, 
at the Gayety Theater, starting 
promptly at 8:15.
Since the casting of the play, daily 
rehearsals have been held, and the 
players are enthusiastically putting 
forth every effort to make "Wedding 
Bells” one of the best Campus Week 
productions ever presented. The play 
is a farcical comedy elaborating on the 
marital difficulties of Reginald Carter 
and his English butler, Jackson. 
Carleton Young will play the part of 
Reginald. The other characters are 
Spencer Wells, Reginald’s best friend, 
Thomas Lewis; Douglas Ordway, a 
lovelorn poet who is infatuated with 
Marcia Hunter, Frank Sullivan; Jack­
son, the butler with a polygamous 
past, Arthur Sprenkle; Fuzisald, a 
correct Japanese servant of Baptist* 
persuasion, William McDermott; Ro­
salie, leading lady, the first wife of 
Spencer Wells, Irene Tedrow; Mrs. 
Hunter, high episcopal mother of 
Marcia Hunter, Florence Wakefield; 
Marcia Hunter, fiancee of Reginald 
Carter, Margaret Werts; Hooper, Ro­
salie’s maid, and first in Jackson's 
past, Ruth Aston. With the exception 
of McDermott, who is a student of 
painting and decorating, the entire 
cast is composed of Drama students, 
all of whom have had considerable 
experience in the productions of the 
department. The play will without 
doubt be a great success.
Chester Wallace of the Drama 
Department is directing the play. 
During the current year he directed 
"Close Harmony,” "Children of 
Ijlarth" and several of the short plays, 
all of which were very enjoyable. 
With "Wedding Bells” Mr. Wallace 
will add another success to his credit.
The first act of the play opens with 
a scene In Reginald’s apartment on 
Madison avenue in New York City. 
The three-acts have the same setting, 
the time of the story covering almost 
one day. Salisbury Field, author of 
the play, has made "Wedding Bells” 
one of his best plays by combining 
mi ingenius plot with a generous 
amount of humor. The show com­
mittee is withholding the story of the 
plot this year, as it is desired that 
the play be a complete surprise.
Misses Ellen Mlchle and Marjorie 
Bartholomew, who are managing the | 
production of the show, are to bo com- j 
mended for the splendid progress that 
has boon made. The stage set which 
will be used In the throe acts of the 
play has been eompletod and Is ready 
to bo transported to the theater. The 
properties committees, headed by 
Irma Weinberg and Burtt McKee, are 
now gathering the various fixtures 
needed to transform the stage into 
the luxurious apartment it is to be. 
Abe Foder is carefully preparing his 
lighting scheme, so as to produce a 
most pleasing effect. John Walker is 
overseeing the general preparations 
in his capacity as stage manager.
With the decision to give four per­
formances this year instead of three, 
A1 Brown, manager of the show, is 
putting forth every effort to fill the 
house at every performance. The in­
itial performance will be given Thurs­
day night, the night of the coronation, 
with the subsequent performances on 
Friday and Saturday night, and Sat­
urday afternoon. It is expected that 
all students will make it a point to 
see the show on Friday night, as that 
performance will be devoted espe­
cially to the student body. Brown 
has sent out cards to all the «11111111! 
within reasonable distance, announc­
ing the show; price of seats, and 
dates, reserving a block of seats for 
the alumni for Thursday night. Those 
alumni who wish to secure tickets for 
that performance may address their 
orders to Dan Barr, chairman of tick­
et sales, Campus Week show, Car­
negie Tech. Since the orders will be
Last Friday evening the four little 
worlds on the Carnegie Campus were 
at their height of activity. From 7:30 
to 10:30 in the different departments, 
displays of the work done there were 
in progress. From the merry whirr 
of machinery in the men’s schools 
to the rhythmic tapping of typewrit­
ers in the Secretarial Department, the 
atmosphere was 011 of occupation. 
Each department of the Institution, 
however regarded by others, was at 
the height of its glory as the inspect­
ing public took a cross-section bird's* 
eye view of an industrial and' artistic 
and liberal art school in the working 
From the depths of Industries one 
could see many stray loiterers in­
specting the new furnished brick bun­
galow erected by the students of 
building construction in the masonry 
and bricklaying shop; under the Sci­
ence building many prospective min­
ers and interested people were being 
informed on the most efficient and 
practical method of mining during the 
present day; auto maintenance and 
operation was illustrated in brief de­
tail in a section of the Commons; 
samples of legitimate drama and of 
music were offered the public from the 
stage of the Little Theater from which 
embryo Paderewskis and Szigetties 
performed; journalists and printers 
were attracted to the newly enlarged 
department of printing, which Carne­
gie boasts is the largest and most
complete in the country's typothetae 
collections; future Lavins, Jennys and 
dressmakers illustrated what the De­
partment of Costume Economics is 
accomplishing; blue-prints and sketch­
es, scenes and etchings attested to 
the wide popularity of the art depart­
ments of this school; the R. O. T. C. 
unit, located at the southern end of 
Industries showed exhibits of field 
work.
Carnegie hospital itj- was not lack­
ing, nor was consideration for the 
physical needs of the visitors. Rest 
room was provided for visitors in the 
men’s gym, where the well-known 
Kiltie band played piquant tunes to 
amuse and entertain the guests as­
sembled there. Athletic demonstra­
tions were offered for approval in the 
swimming pool of the tank room, 
where the men’s varsity team offered 
stunts and indications of their skill 
¦ in the water. Guides were stationed 
I in every school corridor to help the 
eager and almost frenzied crowds that 
1 numbered between 20,000 and 25,000, 
to obtain a peep into every nook and 
cranny of the four small training 
schools for "life” in the future. The 
remarks, numerous and unrestrained, 
evidenced the fact that Carnegie, in 
whatever department named, pos­
sessed a most capable and practical 
1 curricula for college students, and 
: was concluded to be one of the re- 
! markable institutions of its sort in 
! the East.
Gunmen Close Successful 
Season With Annual Party
C. W. SHOW PRODUCERS
MARJORY BARTHOLOMEWELLEN M ICH IE
Night Council Approves 
Endowment Donation Plan
A plan has been submitted to and 
approved by the Night School Student 
Council, whereby night students will 
the option of refunding the 
breakage deposit fee to the Institute 
for application to the Carnegie En­
dowment fund. I11 a current issue of 
the "Skibo,” the official night school 
organ of publicity, the plan as pre­
sented and authorized by the Niglit 
j Council under the presidency of
It
filled in the order of their receipt, it 
is urged that the orders together with 
remittances be sent in at once.
However, those alumni so desiring 
may place their orders with their re* 
spective fraternities, and thus see tlie> 
production 011 student night. Al­
though this arrangement would en­
able the alumni to participate in the ]iave 
other evening events of the week, it 
is preferred (hat they secure their 
tickets for the Thursday night per­
formance.
The Gayety Theater affords a very 
satisfactory place for the presenta­
tion of the show. Away from the heav­
ier tralllc of the theater district, stu­
dents will find ample space for park-
Ing. The thonler lUoir Is well suited Tubman C. Kindle, was outlined, 
for stage productions by virtue of its j was presented by a night student and 
complete stage equipment, the ab- j with the approval already gained 
sence c.r (he second balcony, and makos lt ,,o8fiible for any student eu- good acoustics. The Gayety seats I „ „ . . , , , .
thirty-seven Hundred persons so there !roUed 1,1 !l mKht courae t0 walve h}s should be no complaint for not secur-! claim to any balance due him and to 
ing good seats. | instruct the Institute to allocate the
Orders for blocks of seats are now ! i)a.la.nce to the endowment fund, 
being placed by the fraternities and I Three dol]ars ,g U]e breal e Iee 
other groups 011 the campus 111 order |to secure the best location. Those ! charged each student at the beginning 
houses still having to place their 01*-; of each college year to cover damages 
ders are urged to have them in as to equipment he has caused during 
soon as possible, for the tickets will : the year. At the end of the year the 
be placed on open sale on the cut cost of the damages is deducted pro- 
tliroughout the week preceding the ' portionately from each initial deposit 
opening of Campus Week, and up to and the balance is refunded to the 
3 o’clock Friday afternoon, after student.
which all tickets will be secured at • Large response to the plan is an-
Tomorrow night the gunmen/ of Car­
negie will again assemble in their 
annual conclave to celebrate the pass­
ing of another successful rifle season.
The party is held in honor of the 
team which wins the triangular prone 
match held each year to determine the 
champion rifle team of the school. 
This year the varsity has the honor 
of being the guests of the women and 
plebes. This is twice in succession 
that the varsity has held the crown, 
with the women a fairly close second, 
but as the the saying goes, "Closeness 
doesn’t win except in a game of horse­
shoes.”
During the two weens of competi­
tion, the savage bark of the rifles and 
the chatter of excited statisticians was 
continually heard at the range as each 
team strove to swing, in their direc­
tion, the balance which held the cham­
pionship crown. When the smoke had 
cleared away, and peace again reigned 
after all scores had been computed, it 
was found that the varsity was again 
the winner for the second successive 
time, thus giving them the rifle cham­
pionship of Carnegie for another year.
Every one is looking forward to a 
very enjoyable time since the party 
last year was such a success due to 
the capable handling of the affair by 
Jean Roy, head of the women’s com­
mittee, with the assistance of Tom 
Lippert and Martin from the plebe 
team.
The party this year will again be 
held at the home of Jean Roy, who 
was manager of the women’s rifle 
team this year.
Individual N. R. A. medals, won by 
the girls in the national women’s in­
tercollegiate match, will be presented 
by Maj-or Taylor. In this match, open 
to women’s teams throughout the 
United States, the Carnegie team 
placed third.
The Rifle Club is also awarding gold 
pins to the five high girls, and gold 
keys to the letteiunen. These awards 
will also be presented by Major Tay­
lor. The pins and keys consist of a 
design which includes a target with 
crossed rifles on it, and an eagle and 
scroll at the top with the word Car­
negie on it. The girls who will re­
ceive the riflle club awards are: Jean 
Roy, Alice Bright, Helen Whitehill, 
Isobel Sheppard and Helen Bright.
C. W. Show Lead
IRENE TEDROW
MACHINERY HALL STEPS • 
IS CORONATION SETTT1NG
Story is a Dramatization of the 
Early Medieval Italian Period
STUDENT ORCHESTRA WILL
GIVE CONCERT THIS SUNDAY
Under the direction of Professor J. 
Vick O’Brien, head of the Department 
of Music, the student orchestra of the 
department will offer a public presen­
tation this Sunday, April 29, in the 
Carnegie Music Hall at 8:15 p. m. 
About 75 students of either the day or 
the evening classes in music will per­
form under the conductor, Mr. 
O Brien. Alberta Irvine and Joseph­
ine McGrail, sopranos, and seniors in 
the voice department, will' give sev­
eral solo numbers.
Reserved seats are available for the 
concert. They may be obtained by 
mailing a self-addressed and stamped 
envelope of request to the Theater, 
Carnegie Institute of Technology. 
After 8:15, however, seats will not be 
held. The concert is gratis to the 
public, and is one of the most import-
Tlie coronation this year is expected 
to be one of the loveliest affairs of its 
kind that has ever taken place on the 
Carnegie Campus. Due to the fact 
that the ceremony will become per­
manent this year it will be possible 
for the committee to make more elab­
orate preparations. The ceremony 
will take place on the steps of Ma­
chinery Hall and the quadrangle be­
tween Industries and Science School 
will provide ample room for the spec­
tators besides being a very advanta­
geous view point for everyone.
The story which has been woven 
about the crowning of the queen is 
quite simple but very effective. The 
small country of Peronia has been op­
pressed and ravaged by the powerful 
king of Sarza, who has slain the king 
and queen and imprisoned the crown 
princess and her retinue in a tower 
room of the castle. But a champion 
appears, a prince, a champion who 
fights the king of Sarza and kills him. 
He liberates the crown princess and 
her court and crowns her queen of Pe­
ronia amid the acclaim of her loyal 
subjects.
The cast includes Newton Cowan, 
who will play the part of the Icing of 
Sarza and do battle with Jack Wool­
ley, prince. The three buglers are 
Bert McKee, John Houghmaster and 
John McFarland.
The pageant has been written by 
Lee Mitchell and will be directed by 
him. Sally Hulick is the general 
chairman while Sally Jolly, aided by 
her committee, will make the cos­
tumes which were designed by Jean 
Breitweiser. James Austraw is in 
charge of the construction of the set­
ting.
Laramie, Wyo.—The Rocky Moun­
tain College basketball championship 
was won by Montana State.
ant public presentations of the year 
for - the Department of Music.
ALL MAKES OF TYPEWRITERS, NEW AND USED 
SOLD—RENTED—REPAIRED
FORT PITT TYPEWRITER CO., Inc.
Royal Portable Distributors—COURT 11,00 
Store No. 1 Store No. 2
428 FOURTH AVENUE SIXTH AND WOOD STREETS
THE BROOKFIELD HAT
$5.00
The new “shadowweiglit” felt is the ideal hat for 
students. Made with narrow band in pearl and light 
tan.
AUFHAMMER and EVANS
6100 PENN AVENUEEstablished 1S72
the box office of the Gayety.
All of the evening performances 
will begin promptly at S:15, and the 
Saturday matinee at 2:30. The even-
ticipated from the night students be­
cause of the "two for one” plan 
whereby every dollar donated to the 
Institute endowment fund before 194(5
Show Manager
ing prices are as follows: Box seats, will bring two dollars from the Car- 
52.00; first floor and balcony front, negie Corporation of New York. The 
if 1.75, and balcony rear, $1.25. Special original terms stipulate that if Car- 
prices have been made for the. mati- negie Tech raises four million dollars 
nee: Box seats, $1.25; first floor, before 1946 an additional sum of eight
$1.00; balcony front, 75 cents, and million will be placed to its credit in 
balcony rear, 50 cents. that year. The money will be used
The students are asked to cooper- mostly for the maintenance and im- 
ate with the Campus Week commit- provement of the Carnegie campus 
tees by advertising the play to their by that time, 
friends and relatives, requesting that I 
they attend any of the performances \ 
other than the one 011 Friday night, j 
Inasmuch as the show is the only 
profit-making function of Campus 1 
Week, and that the proceeds from it j 
are expected to defray (he larger part ! 
of the Campus Week expenses, every 
ono is asked to give his full support! 
to the committoes. Night students j 
are also asked to participate and sup- j 
port the play.
Programs for the show will be 1 
printed. They will consist of a thirty- j 
two page booklet containing, in addi­
tion to the cast and synopsis of the 
play, pictures of the cast, director, 
and the producers.
One. last plea is made to every stu­
dent to attend the show 011 Friday I 
night, thus climaxing Carnegie’3! 
ninth Campus Week in a most fitting I 
manner. '
Cambridge, Mass.—A new apart- j 
ment for married students is being | 
erected near the campus of Harvard j 
University.
CLOTHES .1
Ready-made 
And Cut to Order
ESTABLISHED ENGLISH UNIVERSITY 
STYLES, TAILORED OVER YOUTHFUL 
CHARTS SOLELY FOR DISTINGUISHED 
SERVICE IN THE UNITED STATES.
House
Suits *40* $SO Topcoaâ»
ALVIN Ivi. BROWN
r BV SPECIAL APPOINTMENT *3 
L OUR STORE IS THE J
OF PITTSBURGH
The character of the suits and 
lopcoats tailored by Charter House 
will earn your most sincere liking.
J
AGEMAN & SPICKER
The Men’s Store of East Liberty 
6121 PENN AVENUET

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, APRIL 24, 1923THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE SEVEN
GIRLSN OIMAL TI
Two-Trouser Suits
Plain Blues or Fancy MixturesJ
There’s plenty of wear in these suits . . . the fabrics 
are unusually sturdy . . . and the extra pair of 
trousers doubles the service of the suit.
Good-looking two and three button single and dou- 
ble-beasted models, in plain blue serges or unfin­
ished worsteds, or light, medium and dark gray or 
brown novelty mixtures.
On the Plaid Screen
BY FREDERICK D. WOODS
Ho, hum; here’s the Campus Week issue again. A week till the big 
«event, then a couple of weeks’ grinding and it’s all over.
The Campus Week program of athletics, while not so big as in former 
.years, due to the shortening of the festive period, is a good one nevertheless. 
The list includes tennis matches and various intra-mural events, not to men­
tion the cross-country race on Wednesday night and the girls’ sweepstakes.
It was suggested that the committee arrange for Professor Geckler and 
liis math department to start during Campus Week on a foot race around 
'the world, or even a shorter distance, providing that the race finish some 
time after June 5; but the proposed participants proved unwilling to com­
pete, perhaps having read of the bunions accumulated by the runners in Mr. 
Pyle’s famous derby.********
Spring football practice is being continued to the end of this week, on 
account of the number of days lost during the scheduled two weeks due to in­
clement weather.Nothing even resembling a definite lineup for next year has yet been 
decided upon, but indications now point to Dreshar, captain of the ’27 plebe 
eleven, as the regular center, with Mielziner and Losewell at guards and 
Harpster at quarter. For the remainder of the positions, it looks like a free 
for all fight, perhaps continuing all next season. It’s a certainty that unless 
ineligibility wreaks unusual havoc with the squad, the coaches’ problem next 
year will be one of selecting the men best fitted for each position, rather 
than, as in the past, trying to develop new men for positions.********
Doc Marks returned to school last week, toting a grade A California 
sunburn, and exhaling optimism as to the Pirate’s chances for the pennant 
this year. Doc seems to be fully recovered from his appendicitis operation. * * * * * * . * *
The tennis courts were rolled and scraped last week, and should be in 
condition for the varsity to get out of doors for practice this week, unless 
more rain comes along.The first match of the season is scheduled for Saturday, with Bethany, 
one the latter’s courts. Next Monday, the Tartan racqueters will meet Ge- 
xieva on the local courts. Due to the lack of outdoor practice, Coach Hoover 
has not had an opportunity to size up his squad properly, and the lineup for 
the opener has not yet been decided upon.********
The track team failed to get started last week, the meet booked for Sat­
urday, with P. A. A., having been called off on account of rain. The season 
will open then, this Saturday, with the varsity meeting Grove City and the 
plebes meeting Union High or Turtle Creek, both meets being carded for 
the Carnegie bowl.The relay team will leave Thursday night for Philadelphia, where .it 
•will compete in the technical schools division of the Penn relays on Saturday. 
The exact makeup of the team is not known as yet, but it is probable that 
Fingles, Hughes, Ashwell, Lockard and McCombs will make the trip, one to 
serve as an alternate in case of sickness or injury. Fingles and Hughes were 
members of last year’s team, and Lockard, track captain this year, was the 
alternate. Lockard has been ill for the past week or so, and it is possible 
that he will be unable to run on Saturday.********
The intra-mural track meet, held last week, was won by Kappa Sigma, 
.giving that house the crown for the second consecutive year. The relay cup, 
captured for several years by Delta Upsilon, was won by the Delta Tau Delt’s 
for a change.The D. U.’s, though losing their title as relay champs, annexed the 
intra-mural swimming title last Friday, nosing out Pi Kappa Alpha for the 
honors.********
Plans for the interscholastic track meet, to be held in the bowl a week 
from Saturday, are nearing completion. About sixty schools, sending over a 
thousand athletes, are expected to compete in the meet, the twelfth sponsored by Carnegie. The meet is being handled by Don Putt, who expects to make 
it the best in history. Last year’s meet was won by Central High of Co­
lumbus, Ohio.********
Bert Munhall ministered to several ailing Pirate baseball players last 
week, earning thereby their high praise and undying gratitude. Among those 
who limped in and leaped out was Earl Smith, fiery Buc catcher, who was 
treated for an injured knee.__________________________________________________
SPRING TRAINING 
ENDS THIS WEEK
I KAPPA SIGMA WINS 
INTRA-MURAL TRACK
Number of Injuries Reported 
After First Scrimmage
Intra-Mural Championships
Basket Ball—(National and all Leagues)..i.................................Theta Xi
(American League).....................................................Phi Kappa
(Federal League).....................................................McGill Hall
Swimming .......................................................................................Delta Upsilon
Track...................................................................................................Kappa Sigma
Four Lap Relay.......................................................................Delta Tau Delta
Girls’ Basket Ball..........................................................................M. M. Juniors
With two weeks behind them the 
football men have still another seven 
days of spring training camp, before 
they put their equipment away until 
next year. All of the aspirants for 
varsity berths, as well as the Plebes, 
will report the day after Labor Day 
for their fall training in preparation 
for one of the toughest seasons ever 
faced by a Carnegie eleven.
Every day some forty men have re­
ported at the bowl for their spring 
workout. The backfield men are busy 
working out their plays while the line 
men are laboriously pushing the 
charging machine around the field. 
The charging machine may look rather 
useless and unnecessary but it is very 
instrumental in building up a line cap­
able of charging together and holding 
the most difficult enemies’ line.
So far there has been little actual 
scrimmaging. Last week there were 
two preliminary games and yesterday 
a real honest to goodness scrimmage. 
Highberger is handicapped with an 
injured shoulder while Karcis is hav­
ing trouble with a cracked rib. Al­
together there have been a number of 
injuries and Bert Munhall has been 
kept busy getting the players patched 
together enough to enable them to re­
turn to practice.
So far it is rather difficult to predict 
who will and where will the more 
promising men be placed. No one has 
shown up so favorably as to guaran­
tee him a berth on the varsity. It is a 
long time before the Tartan squad face 
their first opponent and there will 
probably be a number of re-arrange- 
ments, and replacements before this 
time does como.
For the tackle position Highberger, 
Schmidt and Schnupp are probably 
the most serious contenders. Three 
big boys, Lovewell. Netherland and 
Melziner are contending for berths at 
guard while Dreshar has center about 
salted down. The opening game will 
probably see Schaughnessy, Sweet, 
Rosenzweig or Flannagan holding 
down the ends. Harpster will be at 
quarter and Stauffer, Morehead or 
Eyth at half back, with Letzelter and 
Karcis for fullback.
With the material on hand Steffen 
and Waddell expect to build up an ag­
gregation capable of taking over any 
team on the 1928 schedule.
Weather Hampers Athletes: D.T.D. 
Wins Relay in Freak Race
The annual Intramural Track Meet j 
of April 16, 17 and 18 is now history. : 
Most of the spectators and partici-1 
pants have forgotten it in favor of j 
i Campus Week. However, it will be i 
recalled to their minds during that 
¡gala time when the silver loving cups i 
I for the winners are presented as part j 
j of the celebration. As said before, 
most of the students have forgotten ! 
the meet but it is doubtful if that is ! 
true in the case of the Kappa Sigmas i 
j for they raced to victory for the sec- 
; ond year in succession. Delta Tau 
I Delta also have occasion to celebrate,
| being the winners of the relay trophy, 
j The meet afforded plenty of oppor- 
! tunity for wagging tongues to wag,
| due to the interesting occurrences in 
I the events. Perhaps the most iiiter*
* esting one which brought joy to some 
i and sorrow' to others, was the relay.
; In this event the Phi Kappa men had 
j established a well nigh insurmounta*
| ble lead, the last Phi Kappa runner 
having a lead of nearly 30 yards over 
j Ashwell, of Delta Tau Delta. Ash­
well, however, broke out into a burst 
of speed and nearly equaled the local 
track record in negotiating the dis 
tance in 41 seconds. At the finish | 
line the Phi Kappa runner stumbled i 
and fell across the line but the tape 
| was broken by Ashwell, giving the 
event and the silver cup to D. T. D. j
The high light of the meet Avas the 
wonderful performance of McFarlin, 
a Freshman, for D. T. D. 1-Ie ran up 
a total of 19 points in the various 
events and finished as high point man 
in the final scoring.
The weather wras none too good for 
the first two days of the meet, the 
cold materially hampering the ath­
letes, but during the last day, when 
the relays and finals were run off, Old 
Sol outdid himself in an attempt to 
make the atmosphere as conductive 
to record performances as possible.
Much credit is due to Milt Cohen 
and his committee for the excellent 
manner in which the meet was con­
ducted and, no doubt, much material 
I was unearthed which will help to 
make Coach I-Iaffertys track teams the 
best in years.
Summary of Points
Total
and
Place
Beta Sigma Rho9X,2.. 11%(6)Beta Theta I’i..2i4426•i.. 23(4)Delta Mu .........54.. 9(8)Delta Tau Delta6454S 9I.. 37(2)212.. 5(9)Kappa Sigma...443S42 ..r>57 42(1)1 . .33.. 10(7)Pi Kappa Alpha141 3S 19(5)Sigma Alpha Ep.21.. m(11)Sígina Phi Ep...22(12)Sigma Nu ........353455(3)Theta Xi ..........23r>(10)
Summary of Places
12345EventPlacePlacePlacePlacePlaceFoxPole...............MillerNeaseWillsonBarnesKirbyBroad............. McFarlinMillerB. BrownEalyfs'easeDiscus ........... LovewellMurraySchmidtKarcisRankin120 H. H. McFarlinAgierJohn
Two Lap...., McCombsCampbellLeslieCohnHubbardJavelin........... ShriverMarnionMurrayTibbettsGod shallNeaseHigh Jump.... WilsonMcFarlinHarpsterJohnHustonShot................. MielzinerWolfsonLovewellI-IerbstFlannaganAshwellFollansbee NeaseCampbell120 Low Hur... McFarlinKloclcoAgierBaylissJohn
220 Yard........HerbstTalbertM agii u sonLa w ton
100 Yard........KennedyHerbstTalbertNeaseCorrigan. CampbellLeslieHubbardEwinsWorley
SU NI MARY OF PLACES
Placements—Relay Race:
(1) Delta Tau Delta.
(2) Phi Kappa,
(3) Delta Upsilon.
(4) Theta Xi.
(5) Beta Sigma Rho.
(6) OEIv.
Worcester Polytecli. — Announce­
ment was made Saturday from the 
office of Y. Lansing Collins, secretary 
of the university, that a scholarship 
has been offered by an anonymous 
donor for a senior of the university to 
go tlio "College Cruise Around the 
World” on the S. S. Ryndam next fall.
German Scholarships 
Offered Americans
intercollegiate Briefs
University of Oklahoma.—Members 
•of the. Oklahoma R. O. T. C. have the 
opportunity of nominating and elect­
ing a queen whose only requirement 
is that of beauty. She presides at the 
R. Oi T. C. annual sponsors’ day 
oanquet and the advanced corps ball.
Worcester Polytech. — Announce- 
¦ment has been made of the recent 
. gift of a scholarship to be awarded 
-annually to the freshman showing the 
greatest amount of “Yankee Ingenu­
ity” at the Worcester Polytechnical 
Institute.
Ohio State University.—Fraternity 
men at Ohio State University who 
become “hard up” during the year 
pawn their pins. Last year at this 
time nearly 60 of these pins w'ere 
pawned.
Special Courses to be Given 
in Many European 
Universities
Leland Stanford.—The dean of men 
at Iowa State College has issued the 
statement that four out of every ten 
j men in college are affiliated with 
Greek letter fraternities.
Law'rence, Kans.—All undergradu­
ates at the University of Kansas are 
-given an opportunity to vote on whom 
th.ey want for the next year’s lecture 
course speakers.
Ann Arbor, Mich.—Although unable
¦ apparently to triumph over Michigan 
in football, the Harvard track team 
recently defeated Michigan by ’two 
•points.
Lincoln, Neb.—An average of 1225 
pounds of coffee are consumed every 
month by the fraternities and sorori­
ties at the University of Nebraska,
• according to the Daily Nebraskan.
Professor Fred B. Millett, formerly 
of the English Department and now 
at the University of Chicago, was a 
visitor on the campus before the 
Easter vacation. An article by Mr. 
Millett on “A College Student’3 
Books” appeared in the Publisher’s 
Weekly of last January.
University of Mississippi. — When 
his alarm clock went off right in his 
ear, a freshman student at the Uni­
versity of Mississippi fell from a 
three-decker bed and was fatally in­
jured.
Dr. Ilirig represented the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology at the Hart­
ford, Conn., High School “College 
Choosing Dáy” on March 29th.
Attention Students!
Senior Blazers--Official Tech Shirt
I will be at SKIBO INN all day THURSDAY. APRIL 26. with 
our Sprina line of CHARTER HOUSE and BRAEBURN CLOTHING 
as well as a complete line of new Furnishings.
At the same time I will have samples of the official Tech Shirt 
and the Senior Blazers. Your orders for same will be solicited.
J@@ Mi2i@r
------with------
Jag@sitasi & BplAe^t
A fellowship valued at $1500 has 
been established by the Germanistifc 
Society of America for the American 
student who contemplates studying 
some phase of German civilization at 
a German university. This fellowship 
is open to both men and women ap­
plicants under thirty years of age.
| The applicant must have some ability 
to do independent research and study 
in' one of the following fields: Ger­
man architecture, German art, Ger­
man history and government, or Ger­
man literature.
The fellowship will be administered 
by the Institute of International Edu­
cation. Application blanks accompan­
ied by all required credentials must 
be in the hands of the committee by 
May 1, 1928, in order that the awards 
may be announced by May 15. Appli­
cation blanks may be obtained by ad­
dressing Germanistic Society Fellow­
ship Committee, Institute of Interna 
tional' Education, 2 West 45th street, 
New York.
Summer courses are being given in 
the University of “Gottigen” and Uni­
versity of Berlin for foreign students 
j who wish to broaden their scope of 
German life and culture. Courses are 
j to be given in culture, history, math- 
| ematics, and physics. At the Univer­
sity of Gottingen a tuition fee of $25 
entitles the student to attend all 
courses. The University of Berlin 
charges a tuition of $30 which will 
entitle the applicant to attend sixty 
hours of language courses and sixty 
hours of another course selected from 
the proposed curriculum. Inquiries, 
requests and blanks may be had by 
applying to A. M. Palmer, 2 West 
45th street, New York City. Each ap­
plication should be accompanied by a 
deposit of five lollars to insure reser­
vation in courses.
Williamette College.—Because law 
studies take up so much of the stu­
dent’s time, lav/ students at the Uni 
jversity of Washington may be barred 
from taking office in student govern* 
ment organizations.
Professor McCulfy spoke before the 
Newclid Club of New Kensington 
High School on “The Evolution and 
Present Scope of Engineering.” illus­
trated with slides, on March 22nd.
6121 PENN AVENUEEAST LIBERTY
Director Breed represented Presl 
dent Baker at a dinner given by the 
I Smith College Club of Pittsburgh for 
! President William A. Neilson of 
j Smith College at the Hotel Schenley, 
j April 23rd.
Philadelphia, Pa.—Tlio Eastern In­
tercollegiate Basketball League 1928 
championship was won by tlio Univer­
sity of Pennsylvania.
* TENNIS MANAGERS WANTED
-b There Is an opportunity for ¦ 
<- several additional Freshmen as 
?5* assistant managers. Report at 
•J* the courts any day this week at
* 4:39.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE EIGHTTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, APRIL 24. 1928
The Oakland Bank
Capital, $300,000.00 
Surplus, $500,000.00 
Deposits Over $6,000,000.00
OFFICERS
President
THE QUEEN AND HER COURTBETTY McFADDEN 
TO REIGN AS QUEEN 
OF CAMPUS WEEK
Marjorie Snodgrass and Jean 
Roy, Winners in the Second 
Ballot, to Act as Attendants
CORONATION WILL BE 
HELD THURSDAY NITE
Winners on First Ballot Will Also 
Take Prominent Part in 
Ceremony
Civil Engineers to ¡Industrial Heads Attend 
Meet in Washington Aviation Club Meeting
Carnegie to Send Representa­
tive to Spring Conclave 
of Society
| The regular meeting oE the Aviation 
Club to be held tonight in Room 104 
Industries is of vital interest to every 
Carnegie student. The outcome of 
this meeting will mean much as to 
whether a course in aviation will be 
established in this school.
Probably few people realize the real 
purpose of the Aviation Club, which 
is to secure for Carnegie Tech a 
course, aeronautical engineering. But 
this undoubtedly takes money, and 
that is the reason for the gathering 
this evening. Having previously pe­
titioned the Guggenheim Foundation, 
in New York City for financial aid, 
and having been turned down by the 
same people, tlve club is now directing 
j Its energy on new possibilities. Rather 
disappointed by the reply; from the 
Guggenheim Foundation, the members 
have invited to this meeting, this 
evening, many of the captains of iu- 
j dustry from the Pittsburgh district, 
who are or will bo interested, in some 
way, connected with airplane build- 
i ing and equipment.
I The chief purpose of this meeting 
| is to get these men interested in the 
i work of the club and ultimately to 
| galu financial ,backing.
I The members of the club have been 
working unselfishly and energetically 
as was manifest by the display on ex­
hibition night. The regular work of 
tho club' recently has been that, of con­
structing miniature pianos and gliders. 
II. is rumored that the club is contem­
plating the purchase of an old "crate” 
for the purpose of study of construc­
tion. The old plane will give the boys 
a chance to work on a real plane.
At the last Civil Seminar, which was 
held Wednesday, April 18, a short 
business meeting preceded the cus­
tomary papers of the day. The prin­
cipal purpose of the business meeting 
was to make a final decision on the 
sending of a delegate to the spring 
meeting of the American Society of 
Civil Enginers to be held in Washing­
ton, D. C., April 25-27. As there Is a 
student chapter of the A. S. C. E. at,
Carnegie Tech it was decided to send 
a representative to Washington to j 
represent this chapter. Mr: Barr, a 
Junior in tho Civil Engineering de­
partment, will be the representative. |
The banquet of the student chapter of 
the A. S. C. E. was also definitely de­
cided uiion. It is to be hold Monday,
May 7, at 6:30 in the Faculty dining 
room.
The papers for the day were given 
by Mr. Furnace and Mr. Davis. Mr.
Furnace discusod welding practice, 
while tho title of Mr. Davis’ paper was 
“The History of Structural Engineer­
ing.” In his paper Mr. Furnace com­
pared wolding with riveting in regard 
to design of tho structural members, 
cost of wolding, costs of materials and 
tho general advantages of welding 
over riveting. A few Important facts 
brought out In this paper wore: con­
necting of structural members in the 
shop by welding, tho cost, of welding
which Is about 400 por cent moro than ______________________________________
riveting although I I por cent Is saved I , , ” \ 7, ! i ! !
on tho wol.il, t of tho Hi mil UHOil. Many " ''»>«!*«» >« 'Involopo.l
toBln won,  .... out In .Inlv, III20, l,°“1 1 111 ‘?s'Kn-
by Mr, IX.nlol» of I ho Civil Doimrtmont ,, V 7 W ° .......T "T"K
,„»1 It w,,.i found tlmt woldo.l Joint» ' , VK, ^h„T " x?"
woro ,,» »tro,§ us tho rlvltod Jolnl„.1 """l" 11 mte"1 1,0 t0 rouew Mr
Another point stressed by Mr. FurnaceMcCullough's Invitation to any Fresh­
men who are interested in such work 
tings, towas that welding is not just a new i ... , . ..t,n. i . i .. , Is discussed at thestidea or thoory, but Is a proven fact
and has been put into practical nso In
many cases tho most notable being I
a 790-ton steel structure at Sharon, |
Pa. I _________
Mr. Davis did not attempt to dis- GEORGE SHARP PLAYERS 
cuss tho different types of bridges. TO PRODUCE “YOUNG BLOOD'
but gave a very complete history of 
the development of various types of 
bridges. He divided the history into
day at 11:,30; A notice of the place 
may be found on the bulletin bourd of 
tho Civil Department.
the following periods: Period of the
ancient in which he discussed bridge 
building up to 300 B. C. bringing out 
the fact that only the simple beam
The George Sharp Players will open 
at the. Pitt Theater April 23 in the 
much discussed comedy drama, 
“Young Blood." The theme of the 
play is that of a boy, the son of a mil­
lionaire who becomes a star athlete,
type was used; Period of the Ro- but fails to make the grade in his 
mans in which the arch type origi- studies. The contrast of the self- 
nated; Period of the Middle Ages made father, Avith his nose still to the 
¦when types other than the simple j grindstone, immeasurably proud of his 
beam were used, but still' no theory i popular boy, and the complete disre- 
was applied; Period of the Renaissance gard of the youth for the practical 
during which the principal advance-1 things of life, is significant to both 
ment was the beautifying of the struc- youth and age in the great American 
lures; Introductory period of bridge j public. When “Young Brood” was 
engineering during which the truss, j presented at the Pitt a season or two 
suspension, and cantilever types were j ago, it created a veritable sensation, 
brought into use; Period of Modern There will be the usual popular
Bridge Engineering in which the sim­
ple truss, suspension, cantilever and 
arch of steel and concrete are in use
Thursday and Saturday matinees and 
season reservations may be made at 
the box office or by mail.
Air Pockets
The Aviation Club of C. I. T. had 
an interesting exhibit on Friday night 
as our aviation enthusiasts know. 
The exhibit was brought about by the 
hard work of President Wilkoff, W. E. 
Burroughs, J. Wassell and a few oth­
ers who took an active part.
The last column of “Air Pockets” 
did not appear for some reason, we 
haven’t found yet, and it was a disap­
pointment to quite a few. We had 
some photos taken of some of the 
club for newspapers, and it helps our 
publicity a little bit.
At a later date we want the entire 
club for a trip to one of the Airfields 
here and have a picture taken foi 
Aeronautical Magazines. Anybody 
that can donate a car tell us about it 
at the meeting.
Tonight we are having our biggest 
and most interesting meeting. A 
large number of prominent men in the 
Aeronautical field and business men 
will be on hand. So everybody come 
and bring a friend.
All members who have not received 
their “wings” be on hand and get 
them.
A committee was appointed by 
President Wilkoff to take charge of 
the exhibit., they are: W. E. Bur­
roughs, J. Wassell, W. J. Aull and J. 
Tucker. Any member of the club hav­
ing. anything in the Aeronautical line 
for the display get in touch immedi­
ately with any on the committee or 
write W. E. Burroughs, Box 238, C. 
I. T.
A visitor of the Club offered the 
use of his airplane which is one of 
the smallest and most practical to­
day. The miniature ship was built in 
Pittsburgh by a local concern.
The plans and drawings of the 
Glider havo been finished by Mr. Aull, 
but we have decided to wait until next 
fall to build and fly our Glider, which 
incidentally navos somebody’s neck.
Campus Queen¡New Names Adopted For 
I Some of School Buildings
Camille E. Grapin Featured 
In April “Pencil Points”
Camille Entienne Grapin, cliier of the 
design faculty in the Department of 
Architecture, is the subject of an in­
teresting article appearing in the April 
issue of "Pencil Points” one of the 
largest architectural magazines pub­
lished in America. The story, written 
by Luther Saslimit, who was former­
ly on the faculty in the Department 
of Architecture, contains the story of 
Mr. Grapin’s life.
Mr. Grapin began his studies in the 
Ecole de Beaux Arts in Dijon and 
there, with characteristic seriousness 
completed his preparations for enter­
ing the Ecole des Beaux Arts in Paris. 
Here, in recognition of his talents, he 
was awarded a scholarship, enabling 
him to continue his studies. From 
that time until the outbreak of the 
war, he won numerous prizes and 
medals in his academic studies as 
well as his design. During the war 
he served in the French ranks, and
The honor of Teigning as Queen of 
Carnegie’s Campus Week has this 
year been bestowed upon Betty Mc­
Fadden, a senior in the Drama De­
partment of Arts School. Although 
there have been nine Campus Weeks 
there was no Campus Queen elected 
in 1920 and 1921. Then in 1922 Jo­
sephine Whitney was elected as the 
first Campus Queen. She was suc­
ceeded in 1923 by Peg Harmon and by 
Josephine Gibson in 1924. By that 
time the custom had become establish­
ed and in 1925 Mary Speers was 
crowned queen. The year before last, 
-926, Tydfil Jones became the fifth 
Campus Queen and last year Emily 
Fulton was thus honored.
According to custom the queen is 
elected by three ballots. The first 
is a nominating ballot by which 15 
of Carnegie’s most popular senior 
girls are nominated. The second elec­
tion held a week later chooses three 
candidates from the 15 nominees and 
the following week the queen is 
chosen from the three candidates. The 
other two girls are the queen’s imme­
diate attendants at the Coronation 
ceremony while the other 12 girls 
make up her court.
This year the first election was held 
March 21 and the following girls were 
nominated:
Margaret Bittner, Mt. Lebanon, P. & 
D.; Rae Broida, Pittsburgh, Costume 
Economics; Lucille Burrell, Cleveland, 
Ohio, Music; Carolyn Edmundson, 
Pittsburgh, P. & D.; Lucille Galmish, 
Butler, Household Economics; Mel­
ba Leet, Edgewood, Costume 
Economics; Jean Mather, Se- 
wiekley, Secretarial; Elizabeth Me- 
Faddeu, Middleport , N. Y., Dra­
ma; Evelyn Offut, New Castle, P. 
& D.; Ellamay Palton, Slieraden, P. & 
D.; Jean Roy, Pittsburgh, Household 
Economics; Marjorie Snodgrass, Belle­
vue, Secretarial; Jean Springer, Silver 
Springs, Md., P. & D.; Charlotte War- 
dale, Pittsburgh, Costume Economics, 
and Mildred Young, Canton, Ohio, P. 
& D.
On March 28 another all-school bal­
lot was cast and Betty McFadden, 
Jean Roy and Marjorie Snodgrass 
were chosen as candidates for the 
final election Which was held April 
11. By the final ballot Betty McFad­
den was chosen as Campus Queen and 
Jean Roy and Marjorie Snodgrass as 
her attendants.
Both Miss Snodgrass and Miss Roy 
are active in campus activities.
Marjorie Snodgrass is a senior in 
the Department of Secretarial Studies 
in Margaret Morrison and is also a 
member of Alpha Chi Alpha. She was 
associate editor of the "Thistle” last 
year, a member of the Mortar Board, 
women’s senior honorary; president 
of the Y. W. C. A. and was one of the 
honorary R. O. T. C. captains last 
year. This winter she was chairman 
of the newly-lormed Women's Schol­
arship Organization.
Jean Roy is a senior in the Home 
Economics Department in Margaret 
Morrison. She is a member of Mor­
tar Board and Alpha Chi Alpha, wom­
en’s -editor of the Tartan, and manag­
ing editor of the tri-publication staff. 
She is a member of the Student Coun­
cil and honorary major of the R. O. 
T. C.
The queen is chosen by the students 
of the four schools, ballot boxes being 
placed in the main hall of each school 
for that purpose. All registered day 
students of the college may vote in 
all three elections so that the queen 
is chosen on the basis of popularity 
and activity in campus affairs. Schol­
arship Is also a necessary requisite.
BETTY McFADDEN
Miss McFadden will reign during 
the Ninth Carnegie Campus Week as 
the seventh queen of the campus of 
“Dear Old Tech.” She is a senior in 
the Department of Drama of the Col­
lege of Fine Arts.
There is a place for you 
in the Dental Profession
Never before have there been 
such excellent opportunities for 
men qualified as dentists and den­
tal specialists. Train for a pro­
fession offering a broad field in 
which you can make a place for 
yourself. Specialization in dentis­
try opens the door to an assured 
future.
The Harvard University Dental 
School—the oldest dental school 
connected with any university in 
the United States—offers thorough 
well - balanced courses in all 
branches of dentistry. All modern 
equipment for practical work under 
supervision of men high in the pro­fession.
Write for details and admission 
requirements to. Leroy M. S. Miner, 
Dean.
Harvard University 
DENTAL SCHOOL
Longwood Avenue Boston, Mass.
OAKLAND’S 
RESTAURANT 
—for— 
CARNEGIE 
STUDENTS
DASCHBACH’S
3808-10 Forbes Street
THE COLLEGIATE IMPS
TO PLAY FOR CAMPUS WEEK FUNCTIONS
after his discharge, he returned to his 
studies. The final crowning achieve­
ment of his school days was the 
Deuxieme Grand Prix de Rome. The.n 
came a period of practical work in 
Milan and Paris. In 1923 he was 
asked to come to Carnegie and accept­
ing, took up his duties in the fall of 
that year.
Projects, consisting chiefly of prizes 
won at the Ecole, are reproduced in 
connection with the article. Among 
them are two water colors reproduced 
In their original colors showing the 
real qualities of Mr. Grapin’s work.
In conclusion of the article Mr. 
Grapin presents his views on the trend 
in modern architecture. He concedes 
that architecture should keep pace 
with science, industry and politics, for 
the modern architect should meet 
modern solutions. His concluding 
statement, however, is very striking, 
“In spite of the respect we owe our 
ancestors we must make way for 
youth.”
Mr. Keeble, who has been ill of 
pneumonia, is now much better and 
left Saturday for a ten-day stay in the 
South.
Enjoys Can 
of Tobacco 
16 Years Old
Waxahachie, Texas May 18, 1926Larus & Bro. Co.Richmond, Va.Gentlemen:
The agent while going through his plunder stored in our baggage room came across a can of your tobacco, and account of his not using a pipe he made me a present of this tobacco.
You will note the revenue stamp and your memo which was inclosed. The tobacco was put up in 1910, six­teen years ago. But it was in good shape, of remarkable flavor, and was greatly enjoyed by me.
Thought you would be interested in knowing how your tobacco held out in these days of fast living.
Yours very truly,
(signed) Gordon McDonald
Edgeworth
Extra High Grade
Smoking Tobacco
Upon the recommendation of a spe­
cial committee of the Executive 
Board, the names of some of the 
buildings upon the campus are to be 
changed. Those buildings affected are 
to be Science Building, which will be­
come Engineering Hall; the Central 
Building, which shall be known as 
Administration Hall, and Langley 
Lab, which will hereafter be known 
as the Commons. Other recommenda­
tions of this same committee provide 
for a shelter house at the Forbes 
street end of the cut and signs on 
the campus to direct the visitors to 
the newly named buildings.
The recommendation for the new 
names has been passed by the Board 
and Trustees but the latter two sug­
gestions are still pending.
Clyde C. Taylor...............
B. J. Miller!.....................
O. C. Young.....................
P. W. Cotton...................
C. W. Ehni.........................
Adam Roscoe...................
FIRST CHURCH OF CHRIST j
SCIENTIST 
CLYDE STREET, PITTSBURGH
SUNDAY SERVICES 
11 A. M. 8 P. M. j
Sunday School 11 A. M. t
Wednesday evening services 8 to 9. J
Semoir/
EUROPEfirst
"“KWoriJ
feraiMNDW
G
ET out your pad and 
pencil, count your 
savings, figure the cost— 
andoiFyougo toEuropevia 
our Tourist Third Cabin.
Specially reserved quarters 
for Tourist passengers on 
such famous liners as Majestic, world’s largest 
6hip, Olympic, Homeric, Belgenland, and others.
We offer the only steam­ers in the world devoted 
entirely to TOURIST pas­
sengers, Minnekadha, Minnesota, WInifme­dian and Devonian. No 
other class carried. You 
have the freedom of aid 
decks. No class distinc­tions.
s r
Let us send you literature 
describing our unusual 
valuesin economical travel.
^7
WHITE /TAD LINERED /TAR LINE LEYLAND UNE ATLANTIC THAN/PORT UNE• HVKPNATIOMAl HinCAMTIU MARINI COMMHV
Address No. 1 Broadway, New 
York City, or any authorized 
steamship agent.
—¦¦¦miHIHIBBlBM
.................Vice President
.................Vice President
.........................Treasurer
........Assistant Treasurer
...........................Secretary
........Assistant Secretary
DIRECTORS
C. H. Kerr 
R. Rogers Flannery 
Barnev Dreyfuss 
J. Ó. MiUer 
R. J. Miller 
A. J. Loeffier
John Dinding 
James B. Clark 
Clyde C. Taylor 
A. B. Sheets 
C. B. Aylesworth 
John G. Pew
Member Federal Reserve System

---------------------------------------------------

/
TUESDAY, APRIL 24, 1928
Athletics Program 
For C. W. Attractive
WILLAMKULLN KUEAKULL 
UjCPAjM USO TASS*E IS 
CItAOEi Elj*Se CULASOUj
Tennis Matches and Baseball 
Games Are Listed
Woman Riflers Have Enviable 
Record; Basketball Also Good
Pot those interested in athletics, a 
fall and complete program of sports 
has been arranged for Campus Week 
by Boh Wright. Tennis games by 
the varsity will occupy a major por­
tion of the time with the Plebes par­
ticipating in one or two matches, j 
Thursday, May 3, the varsity will meet ; 
W. and J. and the following day they | 
•will be hosts to Dickenson. Both 
matches promise to call forth all the 
Tech men can muster and will be 
bright spots in the afternoon’s enter­
tainments.
Gn Saturday, May 5, the annual 
varsity Alumni game takes place. Al­
though Campus Week will have offic­
ially closed, the carnival spirit will 
still prevail. In the past years this 
match has proved quite exciting. The 
Alumni have some fast players to 
send against the students and Coach 
Hoover's men will be forced to ex­
tend themselves to prevent a defeat.
The Plebes will have one last op­
portunity to avenge themselves on the 
Sophs when the two classes meet in 
a baseball game on May 4. This con­
test may lack the blood and grime of 
a fight in the cut but this will in no­
wise deter the Plebes from attempt­
ing to disprove the second year men’s 
vaunted superiority.
PRESIDENT’S REVIEW TO
BE HELD CAMPUS WEEK
SWEEPSTAKES WIUL
RUN MAY 3rd AND 4th
OF CAMPUS WEEKForbes and Mellon Halls 
To Hold Annual Formals1
Plays in C. W. Show
(Continued Prom Page One) 
morning, for the review. They will 
march onto the Cut and take up a 
battalion formation facing the side­
walk that goes across the Cut to For­
bes street. They will go through the 
regalar battalion, review,, with the 
Kiltie Band furnishing the music for 
the drill. At this time it is cus­
tomary for President Baker to say a 
few words to the men in the R. O. T. 
C. As soon as this short address is | 
over, Commander Yaras of the Vet­
erans of Foreign Wars will present, 
on behalf of this organization, a beau­
tiful saber to the most deserving man 
in the Carnegie unit. This man is 
selected by the R. 0. T. C. depart­
ment, and this year Bartlett F. Car- 
3ey, Major of the battalion has been 
chosen. The saber is quite a beauti­
ful object; the handle is decorated 
with inlaid pearl and the blade is 
handsomely cut with the winner’s name 
on one side and the name “Veterans 
of Foreign Wars” on the other. It is 
a treasure, the winner of which may 
be justly proud. No further presenta­
tions will be made at this review. 
After passing in review of Dr. Baker, 
and the guest officers, the battalion 
will march off the.field and back, to 
¦’’Langley Laboratory, where they will 
be dismissed. This review will be 
considered a regular class drill and 
tN)se attending will be excused'from 
one drill later on in the year, the 
date of which will be announced in 
the near future.
After Campus Week there will be 
one more review. The day of the 
Competitive Drill there will be a review 
after the completion of the competi­
tion. This drill is scheduled for May 
10, and the spirit of rivalry is at a 
high pitch in all of the companies. 
Each company has an equal chance, 
and the upper-class companies are 
keeping a weather eye on the plebes, 
who are expected to furnish some 
stumbling blocks to the upper-class- 
men’s hopes of winning.
At the review following the drill, 
there will be presented to the winning 
company the Carnegie guidon, which 
5s now in the possession of what was 
the Signal Corps Company last year. 
The Reserve Officers Association is 
planning to award a saber for this 
competition, also. The company cap­
tains are keenly interested in this 
award. Judges for this competition 
wi^l, be furnished by the Reserve 
Officers Association, consequently in­
suring competent and Impartial judg­
ing at the event.
Madison, Wis.—When the secretary 
of the now defunct Philomathea liter­
ary society at the University of Wis­
consin recently announced that that 
organization was about to die, he laid 
the blame on co-eds and rent-a-car 
companies.
At the farewell banquet of the or­
ganization, a telegram was received 
from the Kock Renta-Car Co., which 
read:
“Sorry Philo died, but now you can 
ride, we sympathize.”
A resume of girls’ athletics for the 
year discloses a very fine record. Al- 
thought the season is not yet ended, 
most of the major sports are over. 
Under the direction of the W. A. A. 
Board, six major and three minor 
sports are run off each year, all being 
inter-class athletics with the excep­
tion of rifle, which is intercollegiate. 
A point system, worked out by the 
board governs awards, which are a 
Carnegie letter, a silver pin and class 
numerals.
Tennis, the first sport of the year, 
was directed by Lucille Servick. The 
fall doubles tournament, played off 
during the first few weeks of school, 
was won by Leah Milkman and Lu­
cille Servick.
The bowling season lasted six weeks 
during which time, the girls practiced 
two afternoons a week. In the tourn­
ament the Margaret Morrison Soph­
omores came out ahead. Dorothy 
Roy managed bowling.
Rifle, the only intercollegiate sport, 
under the management of Jean Roy, 
has completed a most successful sea­
son, which lasted from November to 
April. In the annual intercollegiate 
National Rifle Association match, the 
Carnegie women won third place. Out 
of eighteen matches, the girls won 
fourteen, a very remarkable record, J 
considering that some of the teams 
are the best in the country. The 
scores are as follows:
Opponents.....................
Week Ending..............
Opponent’s
Score.........................
Carnegie
Score.........................
Ohio Wesleyan—Jan 14...444 485
Gettysburg—Jan*. 14........Default 486
U. of Nevada—Feb. 11-----488 483
Okla. A. & M — Feb. 11-----481 479
U. of Delaware—Feb. IS...464 4S9
Drexel—Feb. 18...................466 486
U. of Wyoming—Feb. 25.. .480 488
Michigan State—Feb. 25..4S9 488
Depauw Uni.—Feb. 25........476 496
U. of Missouri—Feb. 25....486 496
U. of S. Dak.—Mar. 3.........4S5 487
U. of Idaho—Mar. 10..........483 490
W. Virginia—Mar. 17..........484 483
U. of Maryland—Mar. 1 ..487 483
Penn State—Mar. 24..........470 489
U. of Mich.—Mar 24..........460 489
Cornell—Mar. 31....................... 493
U. of Kansas—Mar. 31........4S8 493
At the annual swimming meet held 
in February, the M. M. Plebes cap­
tured first, place. Although there was 
a scarcity- of material, some excellent 
swimming, diving and plunging was 
displayed at the meet. Less enthu­
siasm than usual was shown this sea­
son, however,- so that the meet was 
delayed for some weeks. "Evelyn 
Goldenson took charge of the event.
The basket ball season was proba­
bly more successful than any of the 
other inter-class sport seasons. Unu­
sually fine material was available and 
competition was keen. With practic­
ally the same team as they began 
with in their freshman year, the M. 
M, Juniors defeated all opponents 
and captured the championship as 
they have done since first entering 
Carnegie. They have, set a remark­
able record. A play day at Pitt, at 
which the star basket ball players of 
Pitt, Carnegie, Slippery Rock, and 
Pennsylvania College for Women con­
tested, added greatly to the interest 
in basket ball this year. The manager 
was Gladys Conner.
Volley ball, baseball, archery and 
tennis, the spring sports, will begin 
shortly. Due to thé lateness of the 
season, volley ball and baseball may 
have to be run off at the same time. 
They are to get under way this week 
without fail, while archery will begin 
as soon fo.s the weather permits. The 
singles tennis tournament is expected 
to bring out some good material, judg­
ing from the number of athletes 
among the Plebes.
A play day, to be held some time 
during the last few weeks of school, 
is being contemplated by the W. A. 
A. Board. The program would include 
all the different sports engaged in by 
the girls and would probably conclude 
with a campfire at which time the va­
rious awards would be given out.
Princeton, N. J.—Peter Vischer, au­
thor of “Polo,” and the polo critic for 
the New York World, recently de­
clared to a Daily Princetonian re­
porter that “polo will some day be­
come an intercollegiate sport of wide 
proportions, despite obvious difficul­
ties imposed by the problem of ex­
pense.”
R B F41OOV9V3;a
! ADVERTISING
Plays in C. W. Show
1
RATES — 50 cents minimum 
for 25 words or less; 2 cents for 
each additional word. Cash in 
advance. Mail to Carnegie Tar­
tan, C. I. T. Post Office.
(Continued From Page One.) 
agreed to grant permission for the 
park to be used and has promised 
that no traffic will be allowed to use 
that drive during the time of the race. 
The Druid pledges will assist in keep­
ing out the traffic and parked cars 
and help to keep the track clear of 
observers.
Friday morning at 10:30 the finals 
will be run consisting of the first and 
second cars of the three heats and 
the next two fastest cars.
Awards for the fastest time and 
for design will be in the form of 
cups, as has always been the custom. 
Alpha Tau will give a cup for the 
fastest time but it will not be a perm­
anent cup and will be in the posses­
sion of the fraternity or dormitory 
until it is won by another fraternity 
or dormitory. Kappa Sigma lias one j 
leg towards permanent possession by j 
winning last year’s race. The design j 
trophy will be given by Scabbard and 
Blade and will be a permanent cup j 
for the winner.
The judges for design will be Prof. i 
Leeds, Dean Keeble, and Prof. Dibble, 
and the standards by which they will 
go will be grace of lines.
Officials of the race will be—Start­
er, Dr. Marks; Timers, Messrs. Dosey, 
Utrecht, Pfouts and Shaffer; Judges 
at points of change, Prof. Hower, 
Messrs. Carter, Arrowsmith and Rise- 
dorph.
There will be quite a few new cars 
entered this year and quite a few 
old cars which are rebuilt, still others 
have the' greatest confidence in their 
old buggies so will enter them as they 
are. Those fraternities having new 
cars are Alpha Sigma Phi, Delta 
IJpsilon, Phi Kappa Psi, Psi Sigma 
Kappa and Sigma Phi Epsilon. Fra­
ternities using old cars with new 
parts or designs are Alpha Tau 
Omega, Delta Mu, Delta Phi Delta, 
Kappa Sigma Rho, Pi Kappa Alpha, 
Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Sigma Nu, and 
Tlieta Xi. Fraternities using their 
old cars are Beta Sigma Rho, Beta 
Theta Pi, Kappa Sigma, Delta Tau 
Delta, and Phi Kappa. Acacia is un­
decided.
'The rules governing the sweep­
stakes are as follows:
1. All fraternities recognized by 
the Interfraternity Council and the 
Men’s Dormitories are eligible for 
entrants.
2. Entries must be posted with G. 
D. Campbell, 1445 Wightman street, 
chairman of the Sweepstakes Com­
mittee, before 6 p. m. May 2. A list 
of eligible pushers in the fraternity or 
• dormitory must be sent at that time.
3. Race wil consist of:
(a) Three heats, which will be 
held at 3:30 p. m. Thhrsday, May 
3rd.
(b) Finals, composed of 2 first 
cars of each heat and next two 
fastest cars, at 19:30 a. m. Fri­
day, May 4th.
4. Eligibility of Pushers.
(a) Men who have made Varsity 
Track letters are not eligible to 
push.
(b) Men who have made Var­
sity Cross-Country letters are 
not eligible to push.
(c) The fraternities or dorms 
may run any eligible man in 
heats or finals.
5. Only one man may push at a 
time and pushers must change be­
tween designated lines on course. 
These lines will be placed at approxi­
mately—Top of Tech street, Entrance 
to Machinery Hall, I-Ialf-way up In­
dustries Hill. Top of Industries Hill, 
at Central Building.
6. Pushers must remain with car 
the entire distance allottted them.
7. Course of race shall be:—from 
bottom of Tech street near Wood- 
lawn street to first drive in Sclienley 
Park and turning to right to Wood- 
lawn street and up Woodlawn turning 
to left and down to finish just above 
Margaret Morrison.
8. Each car must weigh at least 
60 pounds and must have four wheels. 
It must be so constructed that no part 
or parts can be demountable. The 
car must enter and finish race in 
same condition it competed for design. 
There shall be no motive power 
other than that of pushers. No freaks 
will be considered.
9. All spectators must keep off 
track. Judges and committee will 
reserve right to disqualify any enj:ry 
whose members interfere with race 
in any way whatsoever.
10. Silver trophies will be award­
ed:—
One for winner of design.
One for winner of race.
11. Failure to comply with any 
of these rules will automatically dis­
qualify entry.
12. There shall be three design 
judges and three judges at points of 
change of pushers. There shall be 
one starter and four timers to be 
chosen from the faculty.
The committee who has worked un­
tiringly to make this event the most 
successful in the history of •Campus 
Week are Dan Campbell, Chairman, 
Tom Lippert, Bower Maze, Johnny 
Wilkins, Jim Ashwell, and James Bair.
Friday evening, April 2, from 9 to 
12 o’clock, Forbes and Mellon Hall 
will again hold the annual spring for­
mats which always yield a lot of fun 
and pleasure to their respective in­
habitants. Although the dances are 
held on the same evening, each hall 
limits the attendance to its members. 
Each hall is equally certain that their 
formal will be a success.
Millicent Shull, social chairman of 
Mellon Hall, has been efficiently as­
sisted by her co-workers in the plans 
for the dance. Martha McMasters is 
in charge of the refreshments, and 
promises the girls a delightful repast. 
The decorations will bo equally 
charming, under the supervision of 
Madeline Ferguson. Mrs. Wood- 
sinitli has aided the girls in their 
plans with many helpful suggestions. 
The orchestra engaged for the even­
ing is the “Morning Glories,” led by 
Ted Tyson.
Sara Jolly, chairman of Forbes Hall, 
ikewise has made arrangements that 
should be conducive to a large repre­
sentation. Choice and dainty victuals 
have been promised by Ruth Sietz, 
menu chairman. A program of varied 
entertainment has been planned by 
Mary Adele Zeigler. Elizabeth Max­
well has worked out pretty decora­
tions. The Plaid Revellers, a well- 
known Carnegie orchestra has been 
secured through the efforts of "Virginia 
CTovis. The girls are indebted to 
Mrs. Weaver for her invaluable as­
sistance in all phases of the prelimi­
nary arrangements.
Miss Mary Watson Green, Dean of 
Women, will be a guest of honor at 
both Halls.
FLORENCE WAKEFIELD
MAY 7 AND 8 SET AS
DATES FOR COLLEGE
ACHIEVEMENT TEST
COLLEGE GRADUATES
SELDOM CRIMINALS
“I am happy to say that the per­
centage of college graduates who 
have come before me for criminal of­
fenses is very, very small, in fact al­
most negligible. College students have 
a big advantage in life and are not 
subjected to the temptations of the 
average man, and if they are their 
early training and environment are 
sufficient protection for them. Con­
trary to common belief, heredity has 
nothing to do with criminal tenden­
cies.”
So says the Hon. George A. 
Shaughnessy, judge of the municipal 
court of Milwaukee, in a recent inter­
view.
Princeton, N. J.—“Dougford Peter,” 
a prize English bulldog, has been pre­
sented to the Princeton crow as a 
mascot;
(Continned From Pace One.) 
answer or solve is: Is the process as 
a whole as used by this Institution do­
ing the utmost for the reasonable 
needs of those concerned toward their 
chosen goal? The cooperation and 
response to this study should bo well 
considered, truthful, and entirely 
frank. This may contribute to the im­
provement of the educational treat­
ment of future Carnegie students.
GIRLS NOMINATE CLASS
AND GLEE CLUB OFFICERS
Continued From Page One.)
Mary Hall. Rosemary Barr; secretary, 
Margaret Iveenoy, Cora Lee Henk, 
Eleanor Arter, Helen Whiteliill; social 
chairman, Virginia Morgan, Dorothy 
Hopkins, Carolyn Byster, Mary Crago; 
treasurer, Mary Farbaugli, Katherine 
Anderson, Gertrude Gerheim, Pat 
Montgomery; Senate representative, 
lsobel Sheppard, Cecile Nichols, Cath­
erine Boyd, Louise Binford.
The girl holding the second highest 
number of votes among nominees for 
president will automatically assume 
the position of vice president.
Both junior and sophomore class 
elections will take place at 12:30 to­
day in the hall of Margaret Morrison.
Ithaca, N. Y.—Cornell University 
students last week waded to classes 
through the heaviest snowstorm they 
have had since 1925.
STAUFFER PRESIDENT
OF STUDENT COUNCIL 
FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR
(Continued From Page One) 
the Bulletin board or through class 
meeting which were held throughout 
the week. The elections will take 
place today in halls of all the col­
leges.
LEARN TO DANCE
Jacques School of Dancing
CRAIG AND FORBES STREETS 
In the Heart of Tech and Pitt
Beginners Monday and Friday 
Evenings. Advanced, Thursday and Saturday Evenings. Private lessons 
by appointment.
Mayflower 7891
TECH 
Barber Shop
Complete service for Ladies 
and Gentlemen.
4531 Forbes Street 
Near Craig
Mayflower 2838
DIFFERENCE
When you rent a tuxedo suit from us you 
rent the best.
Quality, Fit and Style. All sizes.
Special rates to students
WHITTINGTON DRESS SUIT CO.
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE 
Day Phone Atlantic 9595 Night Phone Lafayette 4791-R
FRANK SULLIVAN
I V # \
Ann Arbor, Mich.—In a student 
vote at the University of Michigan, 
the World Court was defeated by a 
majority of over eight hundred.
Oregon State CoUege.—Co-eds of 
Oregon State College are going to 
give a series of debates next term, the 
title of which is “Resolved, That too 
many women go to our American uni­
versities and colleges.”
Commerce, too, has 
its Raleighs ~ ~
RALEI GITS definition ofcourtesy 
was apparently to care for the 
needs of the other person. Today the 
same practice is observed by the tele­
phone business; but we call it service.
To men in telephone work, ser­
vice is a matter of looking ahead and 
preparing ahead—and when a need 
arises, to be ready. This point of view 
inspires the research engineer, the
supervisor of production, the director 
of personnel and the executive re­
sponsible for all these activities 
and more.
With the increasing telephone re­
quirements of the nation, this is a 
work of increasing complexity.
Through years to come Bell System 
men will find an even greater oppor­
tunity of service.
BELL SYSTEM
tA nation-wide ¡y tent of itf,$oo,ooo inter-connecting telephones
Ty/¡letti of the 
iftirit of urviei 
•tllllOtl},' tíh'l'h naJlftXJtlHcl,
“OUR 1’ION E F. It I N (¡ WO R K MAS JUS T B F. G U N
> W XI XV U *

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TENTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, APRIL 24, 1928
New Sweepstake Rules 
Show Several Changes
Same Fraternity Can Win 
Both Trophies
D.U. Easily Wins | Campus Week to Include 
Intra-Mural Swim1 Womcn's Atllle(ic E,ents
Pi. K.A. Second and McGill Third 
In Interesting Competition
CopicH of the following rules are 
being sent to all fraternities this 
week.
1. All fraternities that are member« 
of the Inter-Fraternity Council and 
men's dormitories are eligible for 
competition.
2. Entries must be posted with the 
chairman of the Sweepstakes Commit­
tee before G: 00 a. m., May 2, 1928— 
George Campbell, 1445 Wlghtman 
street. A list of all eligible men in 
the fraternities for pushers should be 
sent at this time.
3. The race wiLl consist of:
(a) Three heats which will be 
held at 3:30 p. m., May 3, 1928.
(b) The finals composed of two 
winners from each heat and the 
two fastest thirds, will bo held at 
10:30 a. m., Friday, May 4.
4. Eligibility of pushers:
(a) All men who have earned 
their major varsity track letter are 
Ineligible to compete as pushers.
(b) All varsity cross-county men 
ineligible as pushers.
(c) All those who are at present 
engaged in active varsity track aro 
are ineligible as pushers.
(d) The fraternities may run 
any eligible man In the heats of the 
finals.
5. Pushers must remain with the 
car the entire distance allotted to 
them.
6. Only one man may push at one 
time, and pushers must be changed 
between lines marked on the course.
(a) At the top of Tech street.
(b) At the entrance to Machin­
ery Hall.
(c) At half way up Industries 
Hill.
(d) At top of Industries Hill.
7. The course of the race shall be
as follows: Start in front of Mar­
garet Morrison Building, up Tech 
street to Boulevard, turn to right 
down Boulevard to Schenley Bridge, 
turn to right up Industries Hill and 
continue along Woodlawn avenue, 
finishing in front of Margaret Morri­
son Building.
8. Each car must weigh at least 
sixty (60) pounds, and must have four 
wheels. It must be so' constructed 
that no parts shall be demountable. 
The car must enter and finish the race 
in the same condition In which it 
competed for design. There shall be 
no motive power other than that of 
the pusher. No freaks will bo con­
sidered.
9. All spectators must keep oil the 
track. The committee reserves the 
right to disqualify: any entry whose 
mombors interfere with the race in 
any way whatsoever.
10. Silver trophios will be award­
ed. Ono for the winner of the race 
and ono for the winner of the design.
11. The same fraternity can win 
both the design cup and the winner’s 
cup. This is contrary to previous 
procedure.
12. There shall bo three design 
JudgOH, four judges at, points of 
chauRo, one starter and four timors. 
Ono judge will bo an outside man 
prominont in amateur auto racing cir- 
clos, and the rest choson from the 
faculty.
13. Failure to comply with any of 
those rules automatically disqualifies 
the entry.
ECONOMIC PROBLEMS
OF RUSSIA ABSORBS 
ATTENTION OF COUNTRY
Centralized Regulation of Industrial 
Construction Rondercd Possible 
By State Handling of Factories, 
Banks and Foreign Trade.
Moscow.—There is no country in 
the world where economic life absorbs 
so large a share of public attention 
as it does in Russia. The yearly 
transfer of grain from the harvest 
fields to the city markets in America 
goes practically unnoticed, except for 
the business and financial sections 
of the newspapers. In other countries 
the building of new factories and 
electrical stations is unusually a 
matter of small general interest; in 
Russia it is always “first-page news.”
Some of the most pressing prob­
lems occur in the field of new indus­
trial construction. Planned economic 
life is the dream and objective of the 
Soviet system; the concentration of 
large factories and banks and the 
monopoly of foreign trade in the 
hands of the state theoretically make 
possible a high degree of centralized 
regulation of new industrial construc­
tion.
The state trusts which manage the 
Russian factories often present orig­
inal cost estlinatos for new building 
which proves in the end vastly under­
estimated. So, in building a combin­
ation plant "Altal-Polimot.air an orig­
inal estimate of R ,200,00-0 rublos 
swelled Into a total cost of 40,000,000 
rublos before the work was complet­
ed. Another combination factory, 
the Bogomolovsky, cost 22,000,00*9 
rubles Instead of the 7,000,000 rubles 
which was first designated as the 
necessary sum.
There is much careless and unwise 
planning, as the following examples 
show. A hydroelectrical station was 
built on the River Kura, near Till is, 
the capital of Georgia, at great ex­
pense; then it was realized that
I ----------------
The clear, ripling waters of Carne­
gie's swimming pool were very much 
disturbed last Friday afternoon. 
Splash after splash arose from the 
sparkling waters and cheer after 
cheer from the throats of excited on­
lookers. After about an hour and a 
half of this sort of merrymaking an 
anxious crowd formed around a cer­
tain person until he announced: 
"Delta Upsilon, first; PI Kappa Alpha, 
second; McGill, third; Theta XI, 
fourth."
To those ignorant in sporting af­
fairs this seemingly hopeless jumble 
of English and Greek was entirely un­
called for but to those who were in 
the know it merely meant that the 
Greek letter men from the D. U. 
house had walked away with the hon­
ors in the annual Intramural Swim­
ming Meet. Indeed, the Greek ele 
ment proved to be very much in evi­
dence, McGill Hall being the only non- 
fraternity group to place in the event.
The Intra-mural swimming meet has 
become a looked-forward-to event at 
Carnegie as it affords another oppor­
tunity for the various fraternities and 
dormitories to fight it out for athletic 
supremacy. Besides the glory of 
combat the meet makes it possible 
for the winners to add to their some 
times extensive collection of trophies, 
a silver cup being awarded to the vic­
tors.
Considering the fact that members 
of the Varsity and Plebe teams were 
not eligible to compete in this meet 
the standard of performance was high. 
Rankin's tiine of 12% seconds for the 
25-yard dash and 29 seconds for the 
50-yard free style are especially, wor­
thy of mention. Competition in the 
diving event was keen, Fuller having 
a margin of but 3% points. The 
fourth place man was only 11 points 
behind the winner.
It is interesting to note that Delta 
Upsilon captured four first places in 
the seven events and would have 
taken five but for the fact that one of 
their men, after finishing first, was 
disqualified in the breast stroke.
A certain man from the D. U. house, 
Rankin by name, must occupy much 
the same place as one of the ancient 
Gjeclan heroes these days for, on Ills 
own hook, he captured two first 
places in the dashes and, as lead-off 
man in the relay team, gained such 
a large lead for his team that the win­
ner of the event was at no time in 
doubt. Of course, his team mates did 
their work splendidly and kept Rank­
in’s lead from being materially re­
duced.
Another person wlio did much for 
iiis team was Fuller, of McGill Hall. 
He turned in a beautiful exhibition of 
diving to win first place in that event 
and then swam to another first in the 
100-yard free style. Incldently, he 
scored 10 of McGill’s 14 points.
The final standing:
1. Delta Upsilon ............................ 27
2. Phi K. A....................................... 18
3. McGill ........................................... 144. Theta xi ................................. io
5. Delta Tau Delta......................... 8
(5. Kappa Sigma .............................. 3
7. S. A. E........................................... 2
8. Beta Thota PI.............................. 1
Individual events:
Relay—First, I). U.; second, P. K. 
A.; third, T. X.; fourth, McGill.
Diving — First, Fuller (McGill);
I second, McDermott (D. T. D.); third. 
Hotchkiss (D. U.); fourth, Kristoff 
I (P. IC. A.)
25 free—First, Rankin (D. U.); sec­
ond, Lewis (T. X.); third, Johnson 
(D. T. 1).); fourth, Toft (McGill.) 
Winning time, 12% seconds.
50 «back-—First, Stoody (D. U.);
second, Kristoff (P. K. A.); third, 
Black (McGill); fourth, T. X. Win­
ning time, 48 seconds.
50 free—First, Rankin (D. U.); sec 
ond, Johnson (D. T. D.); third, Tib- 
bets (S. A. E.); fourth, Riechenbacli 
(P. K. A.) Winning time, 29 seconds.
100 breast—First, McCahan (K. S.); 
second, Wilkins (P. K. A.); third, 
Wile (T. X.); fourth, Michaelson B. 
T. P.) Winning time, 1:40.
100 free — First, Fuller (McGill); 
second, Bell (P. K. A.); third, Stoody 
(D. U.); fourth, Butz (T. X.) Win­
ning time, 1:13.
Tiflis had few industrial plants to use 
the power. In Cheliabinsk, in the 
Urals, a factory was built with a ca­
pacity for turning out 150,000 plows 
a year; it was found that the pros­
pective yearly orders would not ex­
ceed 25,090 plows, and the factory 
liad to be rearranged. A textile fac­
tory was constructed in Ferghana, a 
cotton-producing province of Russian 
Central Asia; then it was recognized 
that tflie region, ailtogetlier ari^, 
must bo irrigated to make it fit for 
habitation.
Under the Russian system of state 
capitalism the pooplo who plan are 
spending not their own money, but 
tluvt of the state, and no adequate 
remedy 1ms been found for inept and 
careless planning and mismanage­
ment.—C. S. M.
Campus Week this year will be con­
sidered more complete because the 
women’s athletic events will have a 
scheduled place in the program. Here­
tofore the women’s athletic events 
were scattered in between other more 
important events of the day’s pro­
gram and were becoming almost in­
significant. This year, Friday after­
noon, from 1:30 on, has been given 
over the women’s sports. The com­
mittee in charge is headed by Dorothy 
Roy who is assisted by Isobel Shep­
pard, Cora Lee Henk, and Dorothy 
Hill. The entire program is as yet in­
complete. Tennis games and archery 
will be among the important sports. 
A thrilling baseball game will be play­
ed on the cut. Many feminine base­
ball stars will be seen in action, of 
which, it has been rumored, several 
have been asked to play incognito, 
with the Pittsburgh Pirates, but have 
refused in order to retain theim am­
ateur standing.
All girls who are interested in par­
ticipation in any of the above sports 
should get in touch with Dot Roy im­
mediately. Since this part of the 
Campus Week activities is to ushed 
in a new system of womens' athletics 
the ardent support and co-operation 
of every one is needed in order to 
make this feature of the program a 
complete success.
Carnegie Rifle Teams End Season
With Large Number of Victories
M. M. A. A. DINNER DANCE
ENJOYED BY MEMBERS SAT.
The Margaret Morrison Alumnae 
Association dinner dance held last 
Saturday at the University Club 
turned out to be quite a successful 
affair. It was the first time anything 
of the kind had been attempted and 
the results were rather uncertain. 
However, the members responded 
very favorably, and the evening was 
enjoyed by all.
The party was a formal dinner 
dance, but there was bridge for those 
who desired it. The members and 
their friends all seemed to have a 
good time, and the affair bids fair to 
become an annual affair.
MOVIE KISSES BARRED,
ORDERS CHINESE CENSOR
Peking.—Peking’s film censor has 
decided that kissing no longer shall 
be permitted on motion picture 
screens in China’s capital. Kissing is 
ruled out from date, he has de­
cided, because of its “moral effect” 
on the younger generation.
Foreigners in Peking rather sym­
pathize with the censor, if they are 
familiar with the screen palaces fre­
quented by the Chinese proletariat. 
For the films shown in the Chinese 
city, outside the Tartar walls, are at 
least a generation old, and often are 
among the first ever made.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
The crack of the rifle, the whiz of 
the bullet and the final ping of the 
lead against steel as the bullet tore 
through the target leaving another 
hole in the center ten ring, perhaps, 
and then landing against the stop 
plates, has finally ceased at Carnegie 
for this year. No more, in the base­
ment of Margaret Morrison building, 
are heard the sound of voices nor 
the above mentioned noises common 
only to a rifle range. On Friday, 
March 30, the last shot was fired com­
pleting the rifle season for all the 
teams. This was the completion of a 
fong hard season which began with 
practice last October. Every after­
noon throughout the season, an inter­
ested ambitious group of men and 
women could be found at the rifle 
range, giving their best for the glory 
of Carnegie, and co-operating in help­
ing each other.
All the teams had a good season. 
The girls had the best season record 
with only four defeats out of a total 
of eighteen matches, and also placed 
third in the Women's Intercollegiate 
match sponsored by the National 
Rifle Association for all women’s col­
lege teams throughout the United 
States. Even though the Women’s 
Athletic Association is blind to the 
fact, the women’s rifle team did a 
great service for Carnegie in bringing 
the name of Carnegie to the attention 
of the major colleges and universities 
throughout the United States, and 
showing them that the school is on the 
map in athletics as well as in schol­
arship. Although their own organiza­
tion does not recognize their services 
with any award, the men’s Rifle Club 
is giving gold pins to the five high, 
women as well as keys to the letter- 
men on the varsity.
The plebes had a record of only 
eight matches lost out of a total of 
twenty-four. This was very good con­
sidering they had no men with pre­
vious experience.
The varsity lost 16 matches out of 
34, which was a good average consid­
ering the fact that the team was han­
dicapped throughout the season by 
lack of material, and ruling changes 
which were made this year. At times 
it was impossible to have the allow­
able number of ten men firing for each 
match, and this lessened the chances 
of having five high scores for the 
team total. The varsity came out 
third in their sectional shoulder to 
shoulder match, and were tenth out 
of a total of 22 teams throughout the 
United States. During the season the 
strong U. S. Naval Academy team Was 
also defeated. The varsity by de­
feating Pitt in a shoulder to shoulder 
match gained the distinction of being 
the only Carnegie team to defeat Pitt 
this last year.
A number of national individual 
medals were won by members of the 
Carnegie team.
Tom Lippert, a sophomore on the 
team, won the National Prone Tyro 
championship held by the N. R. A., 
and received a beautiful silver medal.
Robert Martin, another sophomore, 
placed ninth in the National Indi­
vidual Sitting match open to any one 
in the United States. This was also 
under the N. R. A. which gave him a 
bronze medal.
J. L. Stine, a junior, whose ineligi­
bility the second semester was a blow 
to the team, won a beautiful silver 
medal for being the second highest 
man in the Third Corps Area Inter­
collegiate R. O. T. C. match.
Leo Kasehagen, a sophomore, won 
a bronze medal for placing third in 
this same match.
Carnegie had the honor of having 
the Pennsylvania-West Virginia sec­
tional shoulder to shoulder match 
held on its range under the direction 
of the National Rifle Association. Six 
teams competed in this match which 
was the largest number in any of the 
sectional matches in tne United 
States, and these teams were above 
the average as shown by the results 
that all six teams placed among the 
first thirteen teams out of a total of 
twenty-two teams. It is expected that 
this match will again be held at Car­
negie next year.
The varsity men who won letters 
were: Bronson, Kasehagen, Lippert,
Weatherell, and N. D. Cole.
The plebe numeral men were Ander­
son, Maidment, Genter, Marshall, and 
Montgomery.
C. C. Park also receives managers 
letters for managing the Varsity and 
the Plebe teams.
List of matches; (varsity):
Carnegie Tech, 1763—Miss. A. & 
M., 1849.
Carnegie Tech, 1797—Lehigh, 1805.
Carnegie Tech, 491—Worcester P. 
I., 455.
Carnegie Tech, 1309—Penn State, 
1366.
. Carnegie Tech, 1334—Lebanon Val­
ley, forfeit.
Carnegie Tech, 1737—Kansas Uni­
versity, 1803.
Carnegie Tech, 1737—V. M. I., 1760.
Carnegie Tech, 1737—Mass. Agri. 
College, 1647.
Carnegie Tech', 1284 — Gettysburg, 
1283.
Carnegie Tech, 1284—Amherst, 1196.
Carnegie Tech, 1737—M. I. T., no 
score.
Carnegie Tech, 1737—Delaware, no 
score.
Carnegie Tech, 1792 — Johns Hop­
kins, 1689.
Carnegie Tecli, 1792 — Rensselaer, 
1750.
Carnegie Tech, 1792—V. P. I., 1750.
Carnegie Tech, 1314 — Louisville, 
1303.
Carnegie Tech, 1314—U. of Penn., 
1318.
Carnegie Tech, 1810—Iowa State,
TARTAN RACQUETERS 
OPEN SEASON ON SAT.
Teams Go to Bethany for Opener; 
Geneva Here on Monday
Within a few days the Carnegie rac- 
queters will once more take to the 
nets to carry through what promises- 
to be a successful season. The open­
ing match comes on Saturday, April 
29, at Bethany. Bethany’s team is of 
unknown caliber, but should not prove 
too difficult for the Tartans.
The first home match will come on 
the following Monday, April 30, with 
Geneva furnishing the opposition. 
Geneva is expected to present a strong 
array of talent and will be a trying 
bit of play coming so early in the 
season.
Weather conditions have proved a 
great handicap to the team thus far 
as they have been unable to use the 
outdoor courts. True, there has been 
practice in the gymnasium, but Buch 
conditions do not permit the complete 
development desired. During the past 
week, Manager Lewis has had men 
rolling and raking the courts in the 
hopes that outdoor practice may be 
held this week. Coach Hoover has 
not made any selections as yet. The- 
returning lettermen from last year 
are furnishing strong competition and 
Carnegie’s prospects for a successful 
season are thus quite bright
no score.
Carnegie Tech, 1810—U. of Dayton, 
1818.
Carnegie Tech, 1810—Western Md., 
1819.
Carnegie Tech, 1810 — U. ofi Ver­
mont, 1845.
Carnegie Tech, 1334—Pitt, 1360.
Carnegie Tech, 1778—Stanford U., 
1808.
Carnegie Tech, 1778 — Ohio State, 
1814.
Carnegie Tech, 1778—U. of Calif., 
no score.
Carnegie Tech, 1318—Drexel, 1359.
Carnegie Tech, 1835 — Georgetown, 
1748.
Carnegie Tech, 1835—Williams Col­
lege, 1642.
Carnegie Tech, 1363 — Syracuse, 
1359.
Carnegie Teeh, 1805 — Gettysburg, 
1745.
Carnegie Tech, 1363—West Virginia, 
1371.
Carnegie Tech, 1338—Maryland U.v 
1347.
Carnegie Tech, 1821—Okla. A. & 
M., 1851.
Carnegie Tech, 1354—U. S. Naval 
Academy, 1350.
Pa.-W. Va. Sectional shoulder to 
shoulder:
West Virginia, 1306.
Penn State, 1280.
Carnegie Tech, 1268. *•
U. of Penn., 1261.
U. of Pitt, 1242.
Drexel, 1235.
Oberlin, Ohio. — When President 
Ernest Hatch Wilkins offered ?15 for 
the best picture of the Oberlin Col­
lege campus following an ice storm, 
the campus was packed with under­
graduates sporting cameras of all 
sizes and descriptions.
Blindfolded
in scientific test of leading Cigarettes, 
James Montgomery Flagg selects
Old Gold
After this test, Mr. Flagg wrote:
“Most of us smoke names and think we are 
smoking cigarettes! The blindfold test proved 
that to me. It proved also that it is difficult 
to tell one cigarette from another .. . except 
in the case of OLD GOLD ... I spotted that 
... it suited me best even blindfolded. In 
fact, the man who said ‘not a cough in a car­
load’ knew whereof he spoke. It’s the 
smoothness that identifies OLD GOLD. It 
needs no other trade mark.”
//(Qiirç£?Ai3îy
Photograph of JAMBS MONTGOMERY PlAGO, tûkcu in his atudio while teat was being made
How Test Was Made
Subject was blindfolded, and, in the presence of 
two responsible witnesses, was given one each 
of the four leading cigarettes to smoke. To clear 
the taste, coifee was served before each cigarette 
...Mr. Flagg was entirely unaware of the identity 
of these cigarettes during test. After smok­
ing the four cigarettes, Mr. Flagg was asked to 
designate by number his choice. He promptly 
replied, “Number 2,” which was t4; etsnIWILAM KUNEjULACP SOIjj T
Nationally known artist and creator of the 
famous Flagg girl.
SMOOTHER AND BETTER-NOT A COUGH IN
© P..Lorillard Co., Est. 1760
A CARLOAD

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY. APRIL 24, 1928THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE ELEVEN
CAMPUS WEEK VODVIL SHOW CHORUSVODVIL SHOW TO EXHIBIT 
BEST COMEDY ON CAMPUS
ETA KAPPA NU ELECTS NEW
OFFICERS FOR COMING YEARVodvil Manager
Unusual Arrangement to Make the 
Performance Greatest Ever 
Offered
FINAL PLANS FOR
NINTH ANNUAL C. W.
REACH COMPLETION
(Continued From Page One.) 
ties will be necessary ror admission 
to the fraternity houses. The frater­
nities have hired some of the hest 
bands in America and promise enjoy­
able dance music to visitors.
Campus Week begins officially with 
the vaudeville show on Thursday 
morning at 10 o’clock in Carnegie 
Music Hall. Here Carnegie’s produc­
tion of “10-20-30”’ will strive to enter­
tain their audience with the latest 
comedy aDd other entertainment.
At 1:30 qualifications will take 
place. Here freshmen bury Old Man 
Regulations and assume the rewards 
and obligations of citizens of the Car­
negie Campus. Here will take place 
the annual call of campus honoraries 
who single out the outstanding peo­
ple in each class.
At 3 p. m. judgment of cars in the 
interfraternity sweepstakes takes 
place to determine the winner of the 
cup offered for the best designed car.
In the evening at 9 o’clock the cor­
onation of Betty McFadden as Queen 
o? Campus Week takes place with 
proper ceremonies and immediately 
afterwards a dance will take place in 
the gym.
On Friday morning at 9:30 o’clock 
the girls of the dormitories and com­
muters will race in a novel sweep­
stakes to win a cup and much honor. 
At 10:30 the finals of the fraternity 
sweepstakes will be held on the cam­
pus. The sweepstakes cup is the 
most coveted prize offered for Cam­
pus Week competition and much time 
is spent in training for this event. 
At 11:30 the R. O. T. C. corps parade 
and pass in review before school au­
thorities.
During the noon hour, banquets and 
luncheons will be held at many places 
on and off the campus. In the after­
noon the roller skating carnival will 
take place and the cabaret dance will 
be held in the Union, these .events 
taking the place of the county fair.
On Friday evening at 8:15 o'clock 
the play “Wedding Bells” will be pre­
sented in the Gayety Theater, down­
town. “Wedding Bells” is a play 
written by Salisbury Fields and con­
tains a wealth of interesting compli­
cations, humor and -comedy.' It is 
being produced by Ellen Michie and 
Marjorie Bartholomew. Chester Wal­
lace of the Drama, Department is di- 
recting and conducting the rehears­
als.
The leads will be presented by 
Irene Tedrow and Carleton Young. 
The other principal roles include 
Margaret Werts, Florence Wakefield, 
Ruth Aston, Thomas Lewis, Frank 
Sullivan, Newton Cowan and William 
McDermott.
Durin the first part of the school 
year, it was announced that Campus 
Week would not be held. Later it 
was announced that Campus Week 
would be held as an alumni affair as 
a part of Senior Week after the ex­
aminations. Student Council took ac­
tion and by a large vote decided to 
hold a spring frolic during the first 
part of May It was decided to hold 
the affair on May 4 and 5. Due to 
the fact that Carnegie’s annual Inter­
scholastic Track Meet had been 
scheduled for May 5, it was necessary 
to change the date either of the 
track meet or of Campus Week, as 
the track meet brings several hun­
dred high schools to Carnegie. These 
men are entertained by the various 
fraternities on the campus and the 
large crowds that attend Campus 
Week would prevent the fraternities 
from giving the visiting high school 
men the best treatment. As invita­
tions for the meet had been sent out 
and high school track season sched­
ules had been made out accordingly, 
it would have caused great confusion 
to change the date. As a result of 
these facts, Student Council voted to 
hold Campus Week on Thursday and 
Friday, May 3 and 4.
At a meeting of Student Council, 
William J. Kunkie was elected gen-
eral chairman of Campus Week. Kun- j 
kle, who has been supervising all the 
arrangements necessary fo,r Campus 
Week, is enrolled as a Senior in Ar- ! 
chitecture and is a member of the 
Delta Upsilon social fraternity. Kun­
kie had been assistant chairman of 
the 1927 Campus Week and also ad­
vertising manager of the Thistle. He 
is a member of the Scarab, an archi­
tecture honorary, and the Pi Delta 
Epsilon, honorary journalistic frater­
nity. He is also a member of the 
Dragons, is president of the Interfra­
ternity Council, president of the Teck- 
non Club, and a member of the Y. M. 
C. A. cabinet.
Upon his appointment Kunkie made 
the following appointments: Mark
Seibert to be acting general chair­
man, Alvin Brown was appointed bus­
iness manager of Campus Week show 
and Walter Rogers show producer. 
Upon Rogers’ resignation, Kunkie ap­
pointed Ellen Michie and Marjorie 
Bartholomew to act as producers of 
the Campus Week show. George W. 
Wile was appointed assistant treas­
urer and Gerald L. Seibert, social 
chairman. The chairmen of the com­
mittees are: Stewart Ralston, pub-
ing their houses in competition for a 
cup, it was decided that this year 
none of the fraternities would deco­
rate their houses. On the campus 
there will also be a minimum of deco- 
ration, but the desired holiday ap­
pearance will be achieved by the 
lighting effects planned by the mem- 
bers of the Eta Kappa Nu fraternity. 
The members of the Eta Kappa Nu 
fraternity who have been in charge 
of lighting of Campus Weeks of pre­
vious years are enrolled in the De­
partment of Electrical Engineering, 
in the College of Engineering. They 
promise many novel effects and are 
confident that the appearance of the 
campus during Campus Week will be 
the most beautiful-, colorful, and bril­
liant scene in Carnegie’s social his­
tory.
Most of those responsible for the 
assured success of Campus Week are 
as follows:
Campus Week Show Committee— 
Alvin Brown, business manager, Dan­
iel Barr, G. V. Becker, H. J. Bell, A. 
E. Neff; Campus Week show public­
ity, James Seibert, chairman, Robert 
Wlierle, Thomas Etheridge, David 
Genter; Campus Week show tecluil-
lieity; Don McClure, vaudeville show; 
George Campbell, sweepstakes; qual­
ifications, Wayne High; athletics, 
Robert Wright; burlesque, Carl Ham­
ilton; ticket sales, Bob Woods. The 
chairman of the girls’ events is Adele 
Hahn; general planning, John Mc­
Nair; construction, James Austraw; 
electrical committee, Eta Kappa Nu; 
news events, T. C. Wray.
J The news events chairman, T. C. 
Wray, was appointed to head a com­
mittee for the purpose of arranging 
for events to take the place of the 
I country fair which was omitted 
, because of the failure of coun­
try fairs to equal the success 
of the other events of Campus 
Week. Last year the country fair 
was held in the gym because of the 
severe rainstorm. Because of the ne­
cessity of holding the country fair in­
doors, the program had to be cur­
tailed with little success. The events 
which will take place of the country 
fair will be a cabaret dance, and a 
roller skating carnival. The cabaret 
dance will be held in the Union, Fri­
day from 2 p. m. to 5 p. m., with good 
music and stunts, refreshments being 
served in the Faculty Club rooms ad­
joining.
Owing to the fact that in previous 
years fraternities have spent con­
siderable time and money in decorat-
cal staff: Marjorie Bartholomew and 
Ellen Michie, producers; Chester 
Wallace, director; John Walker, stage 
manager; Abe Feder, lighting; Eliza­
beth Schrader, properties.
Vaudeville Committee—Donald Mc­
Clure, chairman; John Walker, stage 
manager; Abe Feder, lighting; Lorin 
Brown, business manager; Earl Cody, 
Ralph Shaw, properties.
Sweepstakes Committee — George 
Campbell, chairman; James Ashwell, 
John Wilkins, Morgan B. Maze, Thom­
as Lippert.
Construction Committee — James 
Austraw, chairman; Russell Brosci- 
ous, Robert McCahan, Robert Rose.
Electrical Committee—Milton Brice, 
chairman; Etta Kappa Nu, electrical 
rfaternlty.
Athletics Committee — Robert 
Wright, chairman; Charles McMunn, 
John Bayless, John Loer, Ray John­
son.
Ticket Sales—Bob Woods, chair­
man; Philip Hubbard.
Publicity Committee—S. C. Ralston, 
chairman; Henry L. Bunker, Wilfrid 
H. Worland, Jacob Carpe, Catherine 
Boyd, William Milliron, Hyman J. Le­
vinson, Wilson J. Eason.
General Planning Committee—John 
W. McNair, chairman; Clyde Stoody, 
Thomas Lippert, William Jones.
Qualifications Committee — Wayne
With the program for the vaude­
ville show of the ninth annual Campus 
Week completed, Don McClure, chair­
man of the vaudeville show committee, 
now has the members of his commit­
tee working out a few remaining de­
tails for the first and only perform­
ance of Carnegie’s 192S vaudeville 
show. The program will make per­
haps the most unusual show ever of­
fered. The scene of the entire per­
formance will be placed in a night 
club. The acts themselves are un­
usual, never before having been pre­
sented to a Carnegie audience. Not 
only has the best talent on the campus 
been enlisted, but even an alumnus 
of two years will return to amuse and 
entertain.
The show will open with the unlock­
ing of a padlocked night club and the 
presentation of the prologue. The 
master of ceremonies, Jack Horner, 
will direct the production from the 
stage with quips and jokes. He will 
connect the entire into one great hap­
py morning: in a night club.
The separate acts are hard at work, 
and a complete rehearsal will be held 
before the official opening. The acts 
have been critically selected by the 
committee, who guarantee the quality 
of that which passes their eagle eyes. 
Of course they censored it.
Then, on with the song and dance. 
The chorus under the direction of 
Kitty Siebold, has a very appealing 
series of presentations. Costumes 
have been adapted to the act.
Don Wilson will have a humorous 
monologue to give. Ruth Ashton, an 
already noted dancer, has to present 
her best number for the show.
Tiny Lish, a very popular student of 
the Drama Department of two years 
ago, will return to dance with Jack 
Horner.
Polly Bauersmith will do a comic 
song number. Mills and McCloud, fa­
mous for their last year’s act, will 
have a good number for this year. 
McClure and Hornbostel will offer a 
Weber and Fields skit. Varied other 
stunts will show the vaudeville full of 
pei> and a perfect opening for the 
week.
TEN MEN INITIATED INTO 
TAU BETA PI ON SAT.
Prominent Pitts. Engineers Made 
Honorary Members of Fraternity
Tau Beta Pi, honorary engineering 
fraternity, held Its initiation in the 
Faculty dining room, April 21, 1928. A 
If. Blalsdell officiating as toastmaster 
introduced T. C. Wray, president of 
Carnegie Chapter, who welcomed the 
initiates. T. C. McCombs delivered 
the response. The new men in the 
organization are R. C. Borden, W. G. 
Carsen, J. W. Luoma, A. W. Miller, T. 
L. McCombs and O. M. Mils. As hon­
orary members It. C. Coleman, G. L. 
Taylor, Jonathan Jones and Mr. Crab­
tree were received.
Mr.: 10. E. Dreese chief speaker of 
the evening discussed “Engineering” 
and touched generally on its educa­
tion and its possible trends in the fu­
ture. He especially stressed the cul­
tural Ization of engineers recommend­
ing it for both those desiring an engi­
neering background and those desir­
ing to specialize in the field.
Mr. Tayler, chief engineer of Mc- 
Cllntock-Marshall, spoke on the ad­
vancement of science within the past 
fifty years particularly referring to 
the building and structural fields.
Mr. Coleman, director of research 
of Mellon Institute, presented an in­
teresting talk on the founding and 
purpose of the Mellon Institute.
Professor Turner, head of the De­
partment of Mechanical Engineering, 
spoke on the application of science to 
engineering.
Professor Work, electrical engineer­
ing development, talked about educa­
tional engineering research from the 
student’s viewpoint.
Professor Riggs upheld the four-year 
engineering course on the ground that 
an academic education would make an 
engineer unfit for the industrial world.
Director Mott added a few words to 
the general discussion of engineer­
ing education.
University of California. — Italian 
residents of California, under the 
chairmanship of Louis Scatena, pre­
sented a $250,000 endowment fund to 
the University of California at Berke­
ley on March 23, as a part of the Cali­
fornia Charter Day exercises. The 
money is to be used for the endow­
ment of a chair of Italian culture, and 
Is to be occupied by an outstanding 
exponent of Italian literature, philos­
ophy, history or art each year.
High, chairman; Henrietta Acciplter, 
Isabelle Warner, Julian Bond, Joseph 
II orb s(;.
Burlesque Committee—Carl Hamil­
ton, chairman; Joseph Dlffley, Wil­
liam Manby, Robert Stevens, Jack 
Hotchklps, Newton Cowan.
Social Committee — Gerald Seibert, 
chairman; Otis Leslie, Jamos Kues- 
ter, Bruce Finnie, R. W. Deverell.
New Events Committee — T. C. 
Wray, chairman; Gordon Durr, Frank 
Foote, Isobiil Sheppard.
A meeting of Eta Kappa. Nu, hon­
orary electrical engineering fraternity. I 
was held at the Sigma Phi Epsilon | 
house on the evening of Wednesday, 
April IS. A general policy to be car­
ried out; in the Campus Week lighting 
week program was outlined at this 
time. In addition, officers for the year 
1928-29 were elected. G. M. Cooper, 
Phi Sigma Kappa, recently elected 
next year’s chairman of the A. I. E. E., 
was elected president, of Eta Kappa 
Nu for next year. W. M. Page was 
elected vice president and treasurer, 
Robert Lockwood was elected secre­
tary and Joseph Chamberlain was 
elected corresponding secretary and 
bridge editor.
INDUSTRIES JUNIORS HOLD
BANQUET ON MONDAY, APR. 30 ;
The Industry Juniors are to hold an 
exclusive banquet on Monday, April 
30. The committee in charge consists 
of J. E. Formichelle, chairman; Ray 
Waterson and “Spooks” Seibert. The 
banquet is to be held either in the 
Frontenac Club or the Central Ath­
letic Association. The committee will 
decide definitely on this point in a day 
or so. The program will consist of 
the various courses followed by 
movies and entertainment.
Professor Everett Warner returned 
recently from a brief visit to New 
York. Professor Warner attended the 
annual meeting of the National Acad­
emy of Design, and the opening of the 
103rd annual exhibition of that organ­
ization. He is represented in that dis­
play by a Pittsburgh subject which he 
painted from one of the windows of 
Machinery Hall.
DON “FELIX" McCLURE
Don McClure, chairman of the Vod- 
vil Show, has a great offering for the 
student body Campus Week. This 
production will Include a chorus of 
ten girls, many acts on the laugh-a- 
niinute type, the Collegiate Imps,
and-----------? You’ll admit after, it’s all
over that the production was very 
colorful and may be classed as the 
best ever produced. All of this is 
due to Don’s diligent work and ex­
perience in previous Campus Week 
shows and in Drama Department pro­
ductions. As an actor he excells and 
as a producer he is even better. He 
is a member of the Sigma Nu frater­
nity and is very active around school.
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS
Ditching 
and Drainage
LESSON NUMBER 11 OF THE
BLASTERS' HANDBOOK
T
HE economic advantages of blasting ditchcs with 
dynamite warrant obtaining a practical under­
standing of the methods commonly used. Blasting 
ditches cost less; the soil is evenly distributed on cither 
side of the ditch; no spoil banks are created because 
the explosive distributes the earth and makes the 
ditch where required; no expensive machinery to locate 
and operate; there are no overhead expenses for equip­
ment; ditches can be dug with dynamite where the 
conditions are too difficult for other methods, and, 
finally, the process is so simple.
Do you understand the propagation method of ditch blasting? Do you know the proper wny to load, the amount of chargcs, the kind of explosives to use for each kind of ditch?
All these questions are completely and practically answered in the Blasters’ Handbook. There are tables of charge.*», plans for load­ing, cross*$ection view», and concise instructions for every step. Here is information seldom given in the average text-book—the 
“boiled-down” experience of field men skilled in the use of explosives for every purpoi^e.
The Masters’ Handbook is yours, without cost, 
by merely malllny this coupon
E. I. DU PONT DE NEMOURS & CO., Inc. 
Explosives Dept., Wilmington, Del. 
Gentlemen:
Please send me a copy of your “Blasters’ Handbook.”
Name.............................................................................................................
C. T. 4-A
Student Accounts Welcome
No Minimum Balance Requirement
NO SERVICE CHARGE
Forbes National Bank
“Itour Home Bank”
FIFTH AND OAKLAND PITTSBURGH
R. K. Mellon, President 
W. S. Phillips, Cashier 
Thomas H. MeCandless, Assistant Cashier
Capital, $300,000.00Surplus, $300,000.00
C.Whairmne gFa oudtGvTstGsC

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWELVETHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, APRIL 24, 1923
ed by mo«t of the American institu­
tions of higher learning.CAMPUS WEEK
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2G00
Published one« «very week during the FSoRFCF 
year by undcrKnjwiutGB of Cnrneflafl InHtltute 
of 'I'cchnoloKy. Entered In the Pittsburgh 
Pont Office «» iM.'cond-chum matter.
~ EDITORIAL STAFF
Editor-in-Chier .................Fenton FinnMimaging Editor...............Milton CohenNews Editor..'..........Margaret Russell
Athletic Editor....................Fred Wood»Women's Editor.......................Jean itoy
Alumni Editor...................1-Ierhert Grau
EXCHANGE EDITORS 
Josephine Clark Florence McLaughlin 
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
Russell Bulllnger William Rose
A. E. Fisher E. Weaver
John Sehnieder Meredith StumpHelen Reed Nathan Miller
Sara E. Wonders 
JUNIOR EDITORS 
S. C. Ralston Harold Jacobson
Dorothy Roy William McNeill
REPORTERS 
H. h. Bunker, Jr. Inn HanaellE. Jarema E. Kclilesinger
'I'. Lippert B. KamiW. W. Hay J. H. McAteer
C. Park C. Boyd
J. J. Boyle K. O'DonnellH. N. Meixner R. Bramson
J. Carpe II. Whiteliili
H. Levinson CI liarr
W. J. Eason 1I M. Fisher
H. Booth J. E. While
M. Echels M. B. Mtuse
N. Kline c. R. NelsonW. H. Worland r, 9I Ackeitfieil
W. H. Martaolf 1I F. Phillips
G. M. Wilson W. L. Myers
L. I. Shusset J. B. PattersonA. G. Allen E. J. Dattlsman
D. K. Tomer D. IT. BarrL. M. Baugh G. Ii. Merrin
SECRETARIAL ASSISTANTS . 
Mary Alice James Ludmilla Allen
Margaret McConnaughey 
Helen Zeleznjak.
BUSINESS STAFF Business Manager.. .Shelby McMilllon 
Advertising Manager........J. H. Seibert
Assistants— R- WehrleT. R. Zone D. H. Genter
W. M. Crosby
CIRCULATION STAFF 
Circulation Manager. .Harold Kandell
Assistants—
G. Brailmst A. FrankJ. Roth A. Haynes
G. C. Harbison C. E. Blass
B. Woduer S. BlueBtone
A. Teplitz I. LevinM. Malinich S. Feigenbaum
R. W. Carter .1. P. JonesS. A. Bol.tonari D. Seville
II. Rosenberg G. E. Miller
Olilcc-Room 12, Induutrlon Building. Oillc« Hour»—Monday to Thurwlnyii. 12:30-1:20 
Paper made up Friday, 12 :!10-0:00.To lnmire publication on the HuccoedinK 
Tuoudny, now» llomu mufll) bo In tho otudont pout office or Tartan Office l>oforo 4 :80 ThurB-
Aftor Onico Iiotirfl call Schenloy 1*100, 
Schonloy 0K-1 <1, Schenloy 0211.All editorials which are initialed 
are contributed by persons other than 
tho editor, uninltialed editorials are 
those by tho editor.
THE ACHIEVEMENT TESTS
Tho achievement tests which are to 
be given In every college and second­
ary school In Pennsylvania on May 
7th and 8t.li promi&o to give an unpro- 
cedontod wealth of data from which 
much light will ho thrown on our pres­
ent educational system and the re­
sults it is bringing about. It, Is i\ 
gigantic, and one of the most worth­
while undertakings that education - 
self critical education lias over at­
tempted,
The objects of the lest will bo to 
study the relationship between the 
secondary schools and the colleges of 
the state as to curricula, entrance re­
quirements and extra-curricula activ­
ity. Tho data will be thoroughly gone 
over and given careful study. It may 
reveal that, the present system of edu­
cation is the best possible and it may 
not. At any rate it will undoubtedly 
point out many faults that can be cor­
rected, as well as calling attention to 
certain items in the present system 
which are extremely worthwhile, but 
have been neglected or overlooked.
Every senior at Carnegie will be re­
quested to take the tests which will 
necessitate four three hour periods 
for completion. It should be thorough­
ly understood by the student that the 
tests will not affect his or her chance 
of graduation, but they should receive 
the utmost serious consideration on 
the part of every student. The worth­
iness of the school itself is at stake 
and can be upheld only by the sincere 
co-operation of every senior in a unit­
ed effort to do their best possible 
work in the tests.
There will be no individual identifi­
able records made; each student will 
he given a number and his identity 
will be confined to the number. The 
object is t.o obtain comparative rec­
ords rather than determinative. Each 
test will be carefully corrected and a 
score given, the average score will be 
a criteria on which the school may be 
rated as to achievement with relation 
to curricula, etc. It is imperative that, 
every one do his host in the tests that 
the score may bo a fair indication of 
what, his education has done for him, 
and is doing for tho students of tho 
school in general.
It will be interesting to learn .lust, 
how tho standing of Carnegie and 
other technical schools with highly 
specialized courses may compare with 
other institutions in which the field 
of learning is broader and perhaps 
more cultural. The relation of extra- 
curricula activity to education should 
he brought out in the tests and will 
be of extreme interest to educators. 
The idea is timely, coming at a period 
when educators are beginning to 
doubt, or at. least to be adversely crit­
ical, regarding the present system of 
education, and especially that follow-
PETTY EXCLUSIVENESSSERIOUSLY SPEAKING
The recent action of the Interfrater- 
nity Council of excluding dormitory 
men from the migratory dance, on the 
surface of things, is the mosL flagrant 
display of would-be exclusiveness that 
has occurred in Carnegie’s fraternal 
history.
j It is true that the migratory is, 
strictly speaking, a fraternity affair, 
I but It has come to be a part of Campus 
I Week and It should remain such, 
j lOyary one who is eligible to attend 
Campus Week affairs should likewise 
ho eligible for the. migratory, 
j Dormitory men iiave rarely, if ever, 
i been the responsible parties for any 
: undesirable happenings at the migra- 
| lory, if there were any such unfor­
tunate affairs they were almost inva- 
j riably caused by fraternity men of the 
/ Rah Rah variety.
I It appears that the members of the 
j Interfraternity Council acted upon 
¡this question without thought or any 
careful deliberation; certainly one 
would not like to think that such a 
j move could otherwise have been 
brought about. It probably never 
occurred to the Council that their ac- 
I tion would reflect back on fraternities 
j as a selfish and clannish move, but 
I such has been the result and the or­
ganization would do well to take steps 
to correct the matter and prevent a 
j like occurrence in the future. It will, 
however, be hard to erase the feeling 
that has already been brought about 
and which will tend to widen the 
gap between the two groups of men.
Every fraternity on the campus can 
well afford to deliberate on the matter 
and instruct their representative as to 
their attitude. If this is done the ac­
tion is certain to be repealed or one’s 
faith in the whole fraternal system 
would be shaken.
THIS TLEDOWN
THE NEW CAMPUS PROJECT
The campus has been blessed by the 
addition of two brand new beautiful 
blinkers, one in front, of the Margaret 
Morrison building and the other in 
front of the Central building, and best 
of all, in addition to the blinkers, a 
small police force lias been added to 
make the innocent looking flash ma­
chines more formidable.
One might suggest that; the old 
roadway be plowed up and flower beds 
be supplanted. Violets would be quite 
appropriate at present. Members of 
the newly formed Aviation Club might 
find outlet for their energies by in­
stalling or promoting airplane service 
to and from Arts School for patrons 
of the Little Theater. The city might 
even find something to do. They 
could cut; away the remainder of Flag­
staff Hill and build another road to 
relieve the by-passed traffic—perhaps 
an elevated boulevard might help.
The roadways are amply protected 
hut the club rooms still exist, with 
j more bare floors, a few broken chairs 
i and wobbly tables. It forces to mind 
Ian ancient analogy, “Hundreds for d'e-
CARDO CHARDON DISENWOLLE
fens© hut nothing for better study
conditions." Certainly the roadway- 
without blinkers was not offensive,
I but, the club rooms of the school 
litre a crying slmmo to any institution.
Play Review
Thanks, sweet thing, for the pub­
licity. But isn’t it rather indelicate 
of you to call me an "old blow,” and 
to talk about the backs of plebes’ 
laps? What an expression! And 
I’m a mid-Victorian, am I, but you 
couldn't find any mid-Victorians about 
the campus? Well, well, I see plenty 
of them about the campus every day, 
and they don’t all belong to our re­
spected faculty either. But I uproar­
iously deny I’m one. And I’m not 
late-Victorian, or yellow-nineties, or 
turn-of-the-century, either. If you 
must know, I’m a conservative colle­
gian, contemporary model. And how’s 
that, young gal?
Thistledown, of course, had a finger 
in the ideas behind that good editorial 
on the revision of plebe regulations. 
In fact, its ideas are so much like 
those he stands for that he might al­
most have written it himself. He 
didn’t, but he does suspect it of re­
flecting some rather long conversa­
tions about such things he has had in 
fraternity bull sessions, sometimes in 
his own house, sometimes not. The 
J abolition of plebe regulations is un- 
) thinkable. Thistledown has never 
asked for that, and surely no one is 
so foolish as to want it. But plebe 
regulations pretty surely should be 
modified or changed, and there is cer­
tainly no need to continue them after 
Christmas. By that time, if they have 
been strictly enforced, they ought to 
| have accomplished everything expect- 
j ed of them. Plebe trials might still 
continue through the year, every other 
week, for the punishment of gross dis­
respect to upper classmen, the annoy- 
i ing violation of some of the holier 
Carnegie traditions, and the regular 
chastisement of the kind of freshman 
I who is blatantly smart and green. As 
to plebe hair cutting, the sooner that 
is stopped the better. It is a disgrace 
to Tech that it. was not placed under 
a strict faculty ban years ago.
A Review of Eugene O’Neill’s Strange 
I nterlude.
The critics perhaps have boon a 
trifle gusty In the matt,or of Eugene 
O’Neill, particularly in connection 
with his latest produced and longest 
play, Strange Interlude. Even when 
they have hot bent their comments in 
the direction of praise, they have, like 
Alexander Woolcott, been maudlin 
and wordy and pettily facetious.
But; critics are alike in one respect 
at least: they are provoked into ac­
tivity and sometimes into enthusiasm 
by provocative and enthusiastic man­
ifestations of art. If James Joyce, for 
instance, had been less reminiscent 
of the infinite variety and activity of 
life itself, less genuinely entertaining, 
Joyce’s name would have sought a 
premature limbo, and Ulysses’ would 
have reverted to quaint antiquity to be 
brought but wildly and very precious­
ly to light by the imaginings of a John 
Erskine’s talent. Ulysses had a 
sparkle, a sense of the vivid, the glam­
orous moment; it had an inherent 
gusto and quality, like the American 
amusement park.
Strange Interlude also has gesture, 
flavor. It is a fine and significant 
flaunting of an invariable sense of 
literary showmanship, of a type which 
demands recognition by a public. The 
critics and the public, alike humanly 
susceptible, have talked and lauded. 
Neither book will ever attain literary 
doom, so sure have been the strokes 
of vigor. Joyce and O’Neill are alike 
masters of their souls and of their 
publics.
Such a literary comparison could be 
carried vory nearly to Infinity. O’Noill 
and Joyce in technique and point of 
view are interested in the entirety 
and continuity of consciousness, 
whether that consciousness be full or 
beneath words and external action; 
both know that tlie sub-surface aware­
ness is quite as dramatic as the more 
obvious externality, that; the under­
standing of tills under activity of man 
is necessary to a complete realization 
of personality and character. Both 
have great human equipment, power 
of penetration, power of seeing things 
and people in, very nearly, the large; 
both are poets in that they have sen­
sitiveness to fact and supposition, in
I K. S. N.’s review of The Madras 
House is unusually good. She has got 
j the names of all the characters cor­
rect; she has swallowed her tendency 
to write pedantic jargon; and she 
has said some acute and sensible 
things. Thistledown may as well an­
nounce to all his readers here that 
j K. S. N. is not Thistledown in dis­
guise, as he has heard a few people 
suggest in his campus rambles. This­
tledown has the highest respect for 
K. S. N., however, and she for him— 
has he not had tea with her? This­
tledown always awaits her reviews 
with eagerness, for when he does not 
j like them, he invariably finds them 
funny. K. S. N. suggests that she is 
"perhaps not a woman.”
Dr. Baker is supposed to be landing 
in New York today after his European 
expedition. Thistledown greets him 
with a hearty welcome home. He will 
probably find Tech a better place than 
it was, because of Thistledown’s mor­
alizing. He will certainly find it a 
warmer place, and that will almost 
certainly be due to Thistledown’s daily 
tendency to let off hot air.
Thistledown can announce to any of 
his readers who didn’t go that Exhibi­
tion Night was a glorious success. 
Thistledown went. He acquired a 
daub of paint in the dramatic depart­
ment, a cookie with too much salt in 
ii from a Maggie Murphy, dirt in his 
eyes in the mine, a bad smell from the 
cliem lab, and a stray brick on the 
head at the little bungalow.
Thistledown doesn’t know what to 
a.nswer his correspondent who has 
written him that she wants to fall in 
love this summer, and how. Thistle­
down, of course, could write an art of 
love, but it; would take rather more 
time than ho has between now and 
lunch. Verb. sap. however. Don’t 
come back to summer school, and if 
Tech men haven’t loved you yet, with 
all the year to do it;, take my advice 
and put your faith somewhere else.
that imagination of a consummate 
sort is a part, of their equipment.
But Strange Interlude is able to 
stand without the props of compari­
son, as are all great world achieve­
ments. It. has a right t;o be judged in 
the light of its own power.
O’Neill has written a tremendous 
play, unlimited in thé sçope of its 
omotional effect on the reader and on 
the audience. It proffers satisfaction 
of a kind that no purely emotional 
work could proffer. Nina, the strange, 
idealistic, neurotic woman, and the 
three men and the memory of a fourth, 
who mean several kinds of love to 
her, form the personal structure of 
the play. Not satisfied, as all other 
dramatists would have been with the 
presentation of the characters in a 
single, centralized action continuing 
through three meager acts Avritten in 
the conventional Ibsenesque manner 
of the well-made plajr, O’Neill lias 
elongated the play form to nine acts* 
to include several actions, which, how­
ever, contribute to one effect, but 
which are varied alike in mood and 
intensity. He has utilized the thought 
soliloquy to open new character.doors 
to the audience. Thus the audience 
faces the continued reality of the 
characters, faces the complexities, the 
subtelties of them, knows them as four 
dimensional realities hy the time the 
nine acts have played their time.
The O’Neill play form is tremen­
dously possible from, a dramatic stand­
point. There are but. few moments 
during which the reader-audience 
chafes under the volume. The inten­
sity of the dramatic conflicts is the 
only strain; and the dramatic inten­
sity is surely not despicable to the 
theater; rather it. is its substance. The 
triumph is that of a glowing piece of 
dramatic writing by means of its own 
inherent fitness, to its medium, the 
theater, over limitations and straining 
conventions. The sense of the thea­
ter: 1 hear much of it; O’Neill surely 
possesses it to an auiaz;ng degree. 
But 1 wonder if it is so very different 
from the sense of life which both 
O’Neill and Joyce have in such produc­
tive abundance.
And, of course (and here I force my 
irony), the strangest slant on the phe-
nomenon is that Strange Interlude is 
an American play, conceived and exe­
cuted by an American bred genius. 
'Phe beauty and significance of the sit­
uation is evident even to those who 
are not in the habit of George M. 
Cohanizing their patriotism. For 
beauty and art transcend mere na­
tionalism; and O’Neill becomes trans­
cendent, because, seeing New Eng­
land and New Englanders, he sees 
vigorously and glowingly beyond 
them and provincialism to the very 
guts of humanity.
E. W. W-
I I have read in that great journal of 1 
j the people, the Satevepost, the words ; 
j of President Angell of Yale, which ; 
I were directed at the members of the j 
National Educational Association in j 
j their recent convention in Boston. It i 
J would be well if a few thousand of the 1 
j 700,000 odd college students in this j 
j country would pause a moment and j 
consider them: 
i "The whole political-educational j 
I conception under which we are work-! 
! ing is too largely that a college or uni- j 
j versity education is open at little or j 
| no cost to anyone of moderate capac- j 
ity and still mode moderate powers 
of application. There is little or no | 
sense of privilege about it and prac- ; 
tically no sense of obligation. Mere- | 
ly to multiply the number of college- 
j trained youths who go back into the 
community with no vivid feeling of 
i duty to capitalize for the benefit of the 
i community the training they have re- 
| ceived is quite as likely to prove a 
i curse as a blessing for the state.” 
j Like most of our social develop- 
j ments, things are happening so quicte 
ly that our traditional habits of 
_ | thought lag behind because of the an- 
I cient observation that necessity 
! j breeds invention, but that the last 
! thing that eople will change funda 
i mentally is their way of thinking.
! Because of this human. tendency, we 
! observe, for example, that industry 
j is rapidly becoming socialized from 
the technical and economic point, the 
i while statesmen and leaders of 
! thought still prate about individual- 
I ism and free competition and the like 
| shibboleths. In a similar manner, 
i higher education has been transformed 
I with amazing rapidity into channels 
j undreamed of fifty years ago. But we 
I still talk in the trite terms of that far- 
! off period, antedating the inroads of 
! the fraternity, stadia, co-education and 
schools of business administration.
I President Arigell’s words thus be- 
j speak the older authorities or disci- 
j plinarian strain in the ideas behind 
! education. However, we must reckon 
with the fact which cannot be avoid­
ed, that the recent developments in 
the field of higher education in this 
country are in the direction of mak­
ing of it a source for self-expression 
and mutual development of the youth 
of the country with little thought of 
I the welfare of the Commonwealth or 
| any such removed abstraction. The 
half million young men and women 
now pursuing the bizarre existence 
termed "collegiate,” by and large, are 
little disturbed by the public ques­
tions burning for solution, nor are they 
preparing themselves for the direct 
tasks of solving the vexing problems 
of public administration and govern­
ment. Life at college has become in a 
measure an introductory course in. liv­
ing, in social experience and the culti­
vation of modes and manners. This 
course of development may be deplor­
ed by some but it is here to stay, es­
pecially as the older institutions, the 
church and the family, which used to 
take up the bulk of the duties of so­
cialization of youth have lost much 
of their force.
Reconciling ourselves to the iner 
vitable means that the first years or 
part-time of the college life willy- 
nilly will be consumed in learning the 
ropes of social intercourse and wear­
ing off the crude edges of personal 
expression. Because /of this, college 
will play a larger role In rescuing the 
misdirected, the unfulfilled, the dis­
torted and the perverted types of in­
dividual development because of the 
unfortunate experience in casual 
growth in the first years of life. Sig­
nificant strides in this direction are 
being made by the departments of 
psychology in many of our universi-
Contribs
People coming from other colleges 
and universities are constantly re­
marking on the extent feeling of fric­
tion on the Carnegie campus between 
the fraternity and dormitory men. 
Why, they ask us, do not we work 
for Carnegie and cease our childish, 
petty exclusiveness? Seldom is there 
a time when Carnegie’s dormitory and 
fraternity men pull together, the intra­
mural athletics being the one possible 
exception.
The latest evidence of this prevalent 
feeling is the ruling by the Inter­
fraternity Council which will exclude 
those living in dormitories from en­
joying the Carnegie migratory dance. 
The migratory dance is essentially 
a campus affair and it is difficult to 
find a valid reason for the Inter- 
fratornity Council’s action. The dorms 
have always had a well planned dance 
in the Union and tho fraternity men 
(to judge only by their attendance) 
j seemed to enjoy themselves there as 
| much as at any of the various fra­
ternity houses; and, vica versa, the 
dorm men have therefore enjoyed the 
hospitality of the fraternities.
With nothing to be gained, and with 
I an increase of distinctly undesirable 
j friction sure to result to the detriment 
| of the school as a whole, it is hard 
| to conceive how the Interfraternity 
Council could have been guilty of such 
! short sightedness.
I The action against the dorms has
ties out of the recognition of the last­
ing benefits to be achieved in this 
new service of the schools. Emotion­
al outlets will be purposefully chan­
nelized and subtly directed and ma­
tured in great measure at college.
Not that there is no truth in Presi­
dent Angell’s words. There is the- 
other side of the educational process- 
which is alluded to in his statement, 
and this also demands consideration- 
It is unfortunately true, perhaps, that, 
we have dinned into our minds the- 
notion that college was the place to 
which all and sundry .could come to- 
prepare themselves for more lucrative 
positions in the commercial and pro­
fessional life. It was all fruit of the 
heedless, reckless manner in which, 
our land was developed with its 
enormous boon of natural wealth and 
lack of restrictive institutions. But. 
that day is past. Unrestrained, lusty 
and unheeding race for acquisitions 
in property and wealth can no longer*- 
be countenanced. Babbitry stande 
ridiculous in the eyes of thinking peo­
ple everywhere, and the time is gone 
when we can allow the "big shot's” of 
industry and commerce and the pro­
fessions to play fast and loose witfe 
our national wealth and the govern­
ment.
We are apt to turn loose a mass of 
Unrestrained, cocky go-getters with 
little or no feeling for the public wel­
fare and the public trust which is 
theirs. How can we best bring to the- 
minds of those undergoing the higher 
education the great privilege which- 
they enjoy, and the great indebtedness 
which is theirs to the countless thou­
sands of men of genius and toilers 
of the past who have made it possible 
for them to devote years of their life 
to study and fruitful experience? 
Carelessly and haphazardly, the stu­
dent can pursue his way through the 
natural sciences with little thought 
to the great epic in human experience- 
which makes it possible for him to 
absorb the secrets of nature in an. 
easy, painless way. For every side­
light of science, literature or history 
to which he is exposed, there hangs 
the thrilling tale of the pains and the 
toils of many, many unsung heroes. It: 
all comes to easily within the covers 
of a book. To realize the great indeb­
tedness to the total social experience 
of man since the Dawn Age is to in­
duce in the student the feeling of his 
trust to the community.
Because we have not stressed this 
aspect of education, we have not built 
the slightest shred of obligation on 
the part of the graduate. His sole im­
pose is to ljnsy himself ,|j|th might 
and main to the instant piling up oi* 
possessions in property and' wealth. 
The result is corruption in politics, 
utter obtuseness and incompetence to 
solve the great economic question of 
the day.
We remember arousing a student in 
the 8^30 from his sweet slumber while 
a problem of exciting public interest 
was being discussed. The resulting 
blankness of expression upon his face 
was amazing. It did not seem possi­
ble that this student was not taking 
advantage of the opportunities offered 
for social development at school, that 
was obvious. And later, this same 
citizen will perhaps be a prosperous 
bond salesman or automobile me­
chanic while people elsewhere will be 
warring and striking and corrupting 
the public servants... We should not 
like to deprive him of his timely slum­
ber, but at least It would be well for 
him to know that it has cost much 
and still does cost much to all con­
cerned to provide for him the agree­
able surroundings, the companion­
ship and the soothing accents of the
teacher who lulls him to sleep-----
NATHAN MILLER.
met with much disapproval, even 
amongst fraternity men on the cam­
pus, -who can see no justified reason 
for the discrimination. School officials 
are also on the list of those who 
frown on the action; the Campus 
Week committee has definitely gone 
on record as recommending that the 
Interfraternity Council reconsider 
their ruling. It seems unfortunate 
that a ruling that defeats the very 
purpose of Campus Week, such as this 
one does, cannot be overruled for the 
good of Carnegie as a whole. There 
are also other events during Campi;s 
Week from which the dormitories are 
excluded, and it will become “Frater­
nity Week” if such rulings continue. 
In the minutes of the Interfraternity 
Council no reason is given for the 
action, although it was passed by 
unanimous consent.
It can hardly be expected that even 
if the Interfraternity Council did re­
act its ultimatum, that the dorm men 
would flock to the fraternity houses 
where they know they are not wanted, 
but it would also seem that the 
Greeks would show a more true Car­
negie spirit by such a move.
Let it be here stated, that, this ar­
ticle. which while based definitely on 
the recent action of the Interfraternity 
Council, it is in reality a protest 
against the clannish spirit manifested 
by fraternities, especially at Carnegie, 
to the detriment of their own Alma 
Mater.
A. M. F.
Director Connelley was toastmaster 
at the testimonial dinner given for 
Dr. William M. Davidson, superin­
tendent of the Pittsburgh public 
schools, by the Pittsburgh Personnel 
Association in the Faculty Club of the 
University of Pittsburgh, March 29.
Dr. Kamman of the Department of 
Languages spoke before the thirty- 
sixth anniversary meeting of the St. 
Andrew’s Lutheran Ladies’ Aid So­
ciety on April 12th, on the subject, 
"The Problem of Modern Youth and 
the Home.”
Director Jewett recently made an 
address on "Where Should Emphasis 
Be Put in Industrial Education/' Sat­
urday morning before the Industrial 
Arts Section of the Western Conven­
tion District of the Pennsylvania 
State Education Association which 
wTas held in the Schenley High school.
Providence, R. I.—Henceforth, stu­
dents at Brown University will re­
ceive their class due bills with their 
semester accounts, the Univei’sity 
thus collecting all class dues.
Dr. W. F. Rittman was toastmaster 
at the annual Founder’s Day banquet 
of the local alumni of Ohio Northern 
University in the Fort Pitt HoteJ, 
April 10th.
Minneapolis, Minn. — The Univer 
sity of Michigan won the Big Ten 
swimming championship in a meet 
here recently, taking 53 points to 
itself. Northwestern finished second 
with 29 points, nosing out Minnesota 
which had 25 points.
Professor Dibble addressed the 
I luncheon meeting of the Typothetae 
j of Pittsburgh recently on the subject, 
| "Educational Developments in the 
j Heating and Ventilating Trades.”
I Ralph S. Clark of the News Bureau 
i was elected president of the Ameri- 
I can Association of College News Bu- 
I reaus at the recent meeting of the 
] association in Cincinnati.
