Tech-W. & J. Game ' 
Saturday, Nov. 20 
Tech Field
VOL. xv¦ No.J. ![ferian
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA.
Annual Football Smoker 
Sat. Evening, Nov. 20 
Carnegie Union
NOVEMBER 17, 1920.
Invasion of Tartan Cohorts
Rouse Slumbering Wheeling
Wheeling and its Fair Grounds are visited by Tech students—Al­
though defeated Tech bunch show spirit. W. & J. given rousing 
welcome at Union Station—Super-special brings bunch back.
I” A
Tech Band Proves Feature of Day
By L. J. WHITEHEAD
“On to Wheeling,” Such was the slogan of last week, but not it seems 
we should adopt one more fitting, “On to Bethany”. Not in the sense of 
another trip to the hills of West Virginia, but rather as a summation 
.of our impressions of the week end.
• Those who heeded the cry left the Union on schedule Saturday morning 
accompanied by the stellar Tech Band. With the aid of the “fast P. R. R." 
the down town section was soon reached and in parade formation slumb­
ering Pittsburgh was given the thrill of a life time as Tech started off to 
Wheeling. At the Union station W. & J. was given a sample of spiried 
cheering and the special train load 
was handed the good wishes of Tech 
as they left the station for their 
invasion of Pitt.
Little did those of us lucky enough 
to be on the Tech Special realize 
the hardships of those travelling in 
R. O. T. C. trucks. Early in the 
morning four of them, loaded with 
ioo% Tech men, left with the deter­
mination to get to Wheeling or bust.
Unfortunately unavoidable delays 
set in and the last truck reached 
the game between halves. But the 
big thing of the day was they were 
there and any man willing to ride 
for six hours in an open truck in 
the bitter cold of last Saturday is 
surely 100% Tech and we take our 
hats off to them.
The journey down by train was 
uneventful except for a few “pee- 
rades” demonstrating the use of 
some carnival mouth organs and 
safety crackers. When they let loose 
plus the band the quiet mountain­
eers along the line turned out to 
see what trouble was and found the 
Tech Special—"bent for Wheeling.”
The Day in Wheeling
Some of them ran_ for their guns 
and others could only stand in wild­
eyed amazment when the band let 
loose in Wheeling and the crowd 
started for the Hotel Windsor. This 
was established as headquarters and 
aftor a bile to eat the parade for 
the fair grounds was started at 2:15 
and say were they surprised? By 
this time the invading army had 
grown to about 400 besides the band 
and the whole town just naturally 
stopped to gaze on a real college 
representation. In fact one husky 
mountaineer “in town for the day” 
inquired if the United States had 
declared war on England to-day. A 
short walk up the main street soon 
led to one of the most modern 
bridges in the country, in fact so 
modern that they still collect toll 
on the affair. Rather I should say 
they try to collect toll but on being 
informed that anything Tech paid 
for they always had wrapped for 
immediate delivery the authorities 
decided they might want to use the 
thing after we left town and the 
two collectors retired to their huts 
to return to the discussion of the 
Battle of Bull Run.
“The Fair Grounds” “Papa 1 wana 
go see the circus.” Remember the 
thrill you had when you approached 
the grounds and saw the tents and 
the clowns 'n’everything. Well that’s 
just the way you’d have felt if you’d 
have been with the crowd. Bethany 
was there already with all their 
“Home Come” alumni, about one 
hunderd students, and about fifteen 
men in uniform carrying brass in­
struments. Some one. after several 
inquiries was able to inform me 
that the latter aggregation have been 
beaten to a man but understand this 
was on the fair grounds. Between 
the halves Bethany gave their in­
terpretation of a snake dance ac­
companied by “The Band”, and it 
wasn’t till Tech broke loose with 
two hundred that they really found 
out what a snake dance was.
Right here I want to insert a ser­
ious thought however and that is 
this, that Tech’s band can not be 
beaten anyplace. It -was brought out 
most vividly last Saturday by meth­
od of comparison and I stand firm 
in my conviction that there is not 
a collegiate band in this territory 
that is superior. It's Tech from be­
ginning to end, every man on it is 
a Tech student and every man is 
a master of his instrument. It is a 
credit to the institution, something 
of which everyman should be proud 
and I feel sure he would be, had he 
been at he game Saturday. The sur- 
prise of the day came when they 
started down the field in regular 
formation and in a twinkle formed 
a C. I. T. and marched the full 
length of the field.
Then there was the Signal Corps. 
Every now and then a messenger 
would dash from the side linos, car­
rying a piece of white paper, over 
to the truck where news of the lat 
eat plays were flashed back to Ma­
chinery Hall. This too was quite an 
innovation for I doubt if any col 
lege has ever before kept it's cam­
pus in touch with the game is such 
a fashion. The boys of the Signal 
(Continued on page 2.)
Last Friday night the Cosmopoli­
tan Club started with its “Indian 
Night,” a series of national nights 
which it intends to. hold this year.
The president called the meeting 
to order, it was then turned over 
to Mr. J. A. Satna, chairman of the 
"Indian Night” Committee. Mr.' Sat­
na comes from Bombay, had his col­
lege education in Paris and is now 
getting practical experience *at the 
Westinghouse Elec. and Mfg. Co.
He introduced Mr. Man ill Homi. 
who holds a position in Cl air ton, 
Pa. and who came especially to 
"Tech” that evening to give a lec­
ture about India, illustrating it with 
many interesting slides. He showed 
some beautiful views of the most 
famous temples and buildings, giv­
ing us a glimpse of the magnificent 
oriental architecture; he also gave 
us an idea of Indian life and cus­
toms which almost made us take the 
next steamer to India.
Mr. Raval, a "Tech” student, was 
the next speaker having as a sub­
ject: "Education in India.” He gave 
brief outline of the culture the 
Hindus had in India many centuries 
before the birth of Christ, and end­
ed in tell'ing us of India’s modern 
education with seven large univer­
sities and two hundred colleges, giv­
ing Western education, in addition 
to the many etstern schools and col­
leges.
The chairman then spoke a few 
words, explaining why it is so hard 
for the tourist or missionary to un­
derstand India, principally because 
India has to be seen from different 
viewpoints and not merely from one, 
namely that of the tourist or mis­
sionary. He spoke of the political 
situation of India and of the time 
to come when India will be free.
Mr. Gadeja, also a “Tech’ ’student 
gave a couple of Indian songs, which 
sounded extremely melodious com­
pared with the jazz-band music we 
are used to.
Mr. Ogle then sang the national 
song of India, which number ended 
the program for that evening.
The first nationl night has proven 
to be a real success. What nation 
will be represented next, has not 
been decided upon. We all seem to 
be so much interested in the "Par- 
isennes” and “Françaises” in general. 
Let us make it a French night. 
Pourquoi pas?
THAT 11. GAME
Directions for Students
The entire grand stand will be re­
served. If reserved seats are wanted 
procure them immediately' from F.
H. Haaren, Grad, Mgr., or Spaldings 
in town. From all indications there 
will be a record crowd, and the re­
served seats will soon be sold out.
All students, men and women sen­
iors and night students will sit in 
the bleachers across from the grand 
stand. A block of seats toward M. 
M. D. building will be held for the 
women students. The latter should 
use the lower gate, walk down the 
grand stand to the track, and around 
to the section.
The W. & J. students, not having 
reserved seats will be placed at the 
gymn end of the field. The rest of 
he temporary bleachers will be gen­
eral admission seats. The manage­
ment wishes that all students will 
co-operate and follow these instruc­
tions.
irvi*-THA1.HGMEF .OT1B
The first meeting of the Carnegie 
Forum, as an officially recognized 
organization of this school, will be 
held today at 4:30 in room 197, 
Art’s Building. This marks the real 
beginning of the Forum. At this 
meeting officers will be elected and 
plans for the coming year formu­
lated. Students arc urged to come 
out for this new activity. Now is 
the time to get in on the ground 
floor. The “Forum” will bring new 
honors to "Tech.” Debates with 
other school will be arranged.
Forensic Art has been loved and 
honored since the dawn of history; 
and as long as men meet to dis­
cuss. as long as languages survive; 
so long will it hold its place in the 
civilized world. No bettor form of 
mental training exists than debat­
ing. No one can hope to be a big 
success who cannot, before a body, 
express his ideas or opinions.
Come to this first meeting today. 
It is not only an opportunity to 
acquire some of the finer.qualities 
of life; but also a duty you owe 
yourself.
FOOTBALL SMOKER TO BE LARGEST IN HISTORY
Unusual Program to be 
Presented
The plans for the annual footbal' 
smoker, to be held in the Union 
Saturday evening, after the W. & J 
game, have been completed. Thi: 
smoker will be one of the larges 
ever attempted at Tech and a rec 
ord breaking crowd is expected.
The committee have cornered the 
market in cider, doughnuts anc 
smokes, a great variety of entertain 
ment have been procured; boxing 
wrestling, songs and dances by well 
known entertainers, and a few stunt; 
by members of the drama depart 
ment. Short speeches by the mei 
prominent in college life and ac 
tivities will complete the program 
Schmertz’s orchestra will furnis1 
plenty of real jazz music throughou 
the evening.
Tags are for sale anyway on th< 
campus at twenty-five cents. This i- 
the only admission price for th 
smoker. Every man should be wear 
ing a little brown football by Sat 
urday. If you. haven’t got it, ge 
it now.
Preliminary plans for the estal 
lishment of a collegiate news bu 
reau of all western universities hav 
been completed, with Berkeley, Ca 
as the central office. News will b 
distributed to other colleges by spe­
cial delivery post and by wireless.
“Speedy” Rush, Princeton Coach 
to Speak at Varsity Club Banquet
General Alumni and Clan members invited—Varsity Football 
Squad and Band to be guests—Varsity Clan officers and 1922 
football captain to be elected.
Rush Second to Walter Camp In Football World
Everything is in readiness for the 
big ANNUAL VARSITY CLAN BAN­
QUET, which will be held immedi­
ately after the Tech-W. & J. game, 
Saturday in Teth’s own cafeteria. 
Plans have been completed to take 
care of the largest crowd that ever 
attended any Carnegie Tech Ban­
quet, and indications are that the 
cafeteria will be filled with alumni. 
Versity Clan Members, and student 
Varsity Clan members. This year the 
general alumni of the men’s school 
has been invited to--participate in 
the Varsity Clan’s annual celebra­
tion of the closing of the football 
season.
The committee in charge of the 
banquet has been hard at work for 
the past month, working up a pro­
gram filled with pep, excitement and 
noise. The Varsity football squad 
will be guests of the Varsity Clan, 
as will also the entire band. This 
is the first year in the history of 
the Varsity Clan that the band has 
been invited, and it is being done 
to instill in the the members of the 
band the spirit that the Varsity Clan 
is willing to do its bit to encourage 
men coming out for the organization.
Coach "Wally” Steffen will be on 
hand to give his annual fairwell talk 
to Tech men. Coach "Hal” hidings 
will also be present. Among the 
other prominent men around Tech, 
who will be present are Frank Haa­
ren, Graduate Manager, Clarence 
‘Buddy” Overend, President of the 
Athletic Council, "Doc” Marks, 
"Bert” Munhall. Frank Hyman, "Bert” 
Colmcry and several others.
A big surprise and treat for the 
Varsity Clan Banquet will be the 
presence of "Speedy” Rush, Prince­
ton’s famous football player and 
coach. Through the efforts of Mr. 
Overend, who visited Mr. Rush last; 
week in Baltimore, he has consented 
to come to Pittsburgh and speak at 
the Varsity Clan Banquet. This will; 
come as quite a surprise to many of 
the alumni and it should prove a! 
big attraction not only to Tech men, 
but to all lovers of the pigskin game. 
Mr. Rush is known all over the 
United States as one of the greatest 
authorities on football. It will be 
Mr. Rush’s first visit to the Tech. 
"campus. He ranks perhaps second.1 
only to Walter Camp, as an author-: 
ity on football.
Dring the- past week rumors have 
been floating around the campus' 
that the general student body was 
invited to.attend the banquet. This 
is a false rumor, as only the mem­
bers of the Varsity Clan and the 
Alumni have been invited. The only 
students who have been invited are 
those who have won their letter at 
Tech and are members.
Mr. Kirkpatrick, manager of Tech's 
cafeteria submitted his menu to the 
committee last week and it passed 
cheir approval. It will be a com* 
.jlete banquet including everything 
from oyster cocktails to what nots 
and smokes.
The banquet will starte immedil 
ately after the Tech-W. & J. game 
ind should be under way about six 
/clock. Many original stunts have 
>een arranged and there will not 
>e one minute lacking pep. In ad 
lition to the entertainment already 
cheduled several professional enter- 
ainers will be added to the pro- 
fram this week.
Following the banquet everybody 
.vill attend the Annual Football 
Smoker which will be held in the
Union. This mokcr also promises to 
be a big affair and will include 
many acts not on the Varsity Clan 
Banquet program, such as boxing, 
wrestling, etc.
The Annual election of officers for 
the Varsity Clan for the year 1921 
will be held at the ,Banquet, and the 
captain for next year’s football team 
will also be elected. Many new items 
on the athletic program for the 
coming year will be made known by 
the speakers.
Requests for information fioin the 
alumni continue to come in to Mr. 
Haaren and Mr. Hirsch, the new 
Varsity Clan Secretary, regarding the 
banquet. Any alumni desiring res­
ervations at the banquet can save 
themselves much time and y/orry by 
dropping a postal card to Edward l\ 
Hirsch, 923 North St. Clair St., Pitts­
burgh, Pa., and he will see that 
proper reservations are made. The 
asscsmcnt will be $3.00 per plate. 
Tickets for the banquet will be sold 
inside the gate before the gamo and 
at the cafeteria after the game. Ar­
rangements can also 1«: made by 
calling Mr. Haaren, Schenley 2600.
Bethany Springs Unexpected,
Defeats Plaid Eleven 14-0
Field not suited for football—officials and players have numerous 
arguments—Wierman fails to show up—Brumbaugh taken out . on account of injury.
Presbyterians Play;GoodlPassing Game
by Fred. L. Knowles, Tartan Athletic Editor.
Bethany’s gridders, official and football field are enough for any foot­
ball team, but couple this with the reaction that sets in after a Victory 
and you have the story of how Carnegie Tech, for the first time, bowed to Bethany, defeated by a score of 14-0.
Showing the unexpected, which baffled the somewhat confident Plaid 
Team, Kelly went across for the first touchdown in the first'three min­
utes of play. fn the last few minutes of the game thru a series of
forward passes” the Presbyterians
FOR COMING YEAR
RIEEE CLUB RECEIVES 
STATE RECOGNITION
In formation has been received 
from the State Secretary of the 
National Rifle Association to the 
effect that the Carnegie Tech Rilie 
Club with its one hundred and elev­
en charter membership has received 
State recognition, and that the ap­
plication has been submitted to 
Washington for- their approval, and 
recognition. Notification of this 
second approval is expected within 
the next few days.
Since the closing date of the 
charter membership many men have, 
applied for membership in the club. 
At present it is impossible to add 
to the list of the club for it is 
necessary to determine the exact 
number that may be handled on the 
range during a week; before accep­
ting new members, however, men 
wishing membership may leave their 
application at the post office for 
box 142.,- Their names will be put 
on the future list according to the 
order received. The application must 
contain their name in full, their age, 
home address, and present address.
One of the Executive Officers of 
the club reports that one applicant 
on requesting information asked 
whether the rifle used for indoor 
work was of 75 mm. calibre. Very 
fortunately we are able to say ‘no,’ 
and indeed we hope that no one 
will insist on the club. furnishing 
this calibre. All indoor work will 
consist of .22 standard indoor rifles, 
while for outside range practice, a 
.30 U, S. Army model rifle will be 
used. The outdoor work will not 
begin till the the weather permit«. In­
tercollegiate matches will be shot 
with the use of the sub-calibrated 
rifles at a range of from 50 to 75 
feet. There will be two teams for 
these matches a varsity and a fresh­
man team: Each team will be com­
posed of ten men and those ten 
men on each team am going to 
have one big bunch of crack shots' 
after their places all of the time.
At a meeting held November 8th. 
in Room 209 Science, an organiza­
tion of all Science Night men was 
effected and plans laid for the pep­
piest year in the history of Night 
School. President Hamerschlag, Dean 
Mott, and Dr. Ihrig addressed th.' 
Night men. President Hamerschlag 
especially speaking in favor of the 
new organization, and urging that 
Divisions organize not only as Div­
isions, but that the four Divisions 
in the Night School get together 
for the purpose of holding joint 
social funstions and eliminating the 
knocker as much as possible from 
their organizations.
The elections, which were verv 
close in some cases, resulted as fol­
lows; President, Grcpnwald; Vice- 
President.Dermitt; Treasurer, Petty; 
Secretary, Hagcl. DermiIt, who had 
temporarily been attending,the moot­
ings of the Student Activities Board, 
was by acclamation named Night 
Science representative on the Board, 
and Edw. A. Brand, who acted as 
temporary chairman of the meeting, 
was named Science Night Thistle 
Editor.
An announcement by Kdward l\ 
Hirsch. Secretary of the Varsity 
Clan, that Night men were invited 
to attend the Varsity (‘Ian Banquet; 
aroused great enthusiasm, especially 
when it was announced by him thaï 
Day students had not boon invited. 
As he explained the situation, Night 
men have 110 chance to become, let 
ter men, thus making thorn elibible 
to attend the banquet, but as there 
have always been requests from 
them for permission to attend, it 
was decidod to invite all Night men 
this year. It was with extreme sor­
row, ho stated that ho could not 
invite the ladies also.
Dr. Ihrig, in .his talk said that as 
Director of the Night School he w;i 
a beginner, but would do all in his 
power to aid the Night men, and 
assured them that the faculty find 
the day students also are behind
them. Director Mott in his speech 
brought out the point that this was 
the first lim«! in ton years that
Science Night had managed to unite 
as a single body, and stated that
since the reorganization, this was 
the proper and logical thing to do. 
He spoke of the advantages of th'-. 
new system,' and said that it: win 
the carefully though-out plan of the 
faculty, which to the present time 
had been justified by results ob­
tained.
President Hamerschlag in his ad­
dress spoke of the splendid showing 
which Night School graduates had 
made compared with Day School 
graduates. Of the twenty-five most 
successful men graduated from Tech. 
as shown by their records since their 
graduation, eleven were Night School 
students. This is all the more re­
markable when the difference in 
condition in Day School and Night 
School are considered. But altho 
there is so great a difference be­
tween the two schools in most things, 
in school interest and in compan­
ionship there should be little differ­
ence, and for this reason the organ­
ization contemplated was very desi­
rable, in his opinion. The President 
enlarged, on this plan and urged 
that after the men get together in 
one Division, he different Division 
should be united for greater solid­
arity, and for the purpose of hold­
ing joint social functions. He also 
spoke for greater democracy among 
faculty and students, and one plan 
towards this end which he sugges­
ted was a joint function during the 
Christmas holidays, when the men 
are free in the evening, to which 
the faculties and the President be 
invited, to meet the students on an 
informal basis.
In conclusion, after urging that 
a start be made immediately to­
wards carrying out the program out­
lined, he brought out the point that 
success in life lies not only in work 
but also in the association we make, 
and the friendships we form and 
repeated-, that it was necessary »0 
get asquainted so that we learn to 
feel that we need our fellow-rnen. as 
badly as they need us, as we can 
get no more from them than we 
give to them.
scored their second touchdown.
Bethany's passing game was good- 
mixing forward and lateral passes 
from most any formation gained 
much ground for them. Altho they 
gained their second score from for­
ward passes, it docs not indicate 
that the Skibo weren’t in the game, 
for Bethany has more incomplete 
passes to her credit than complete. 
After the first score the Green and 
White running game came to a halt 
and then it was passes or bucks with 
an occasinal attempt to skirt the 
ends. Tech realized her position and 
the ball see-sawed from our end of 
e field to the other.
Wierman, the man that scored 
against Lehigh was stopped. It seem­
ed that the Bethany squad had every 
one of the Skibos plays indexed, 
when signals were called, the whole 
squad knew what was going to hap­
pen and the man to stop. Wierman 
never could get started and usually, 
somebody broke thru and got him 
when ho did get started.
Brumbaugh was taken out early 
in the gamo, due to injuries; some­
thing unusual for Brumbaugh this 
being the first time ho has boon re­
lieved this season. Pittman replaced 
him and did his share, but Brum­
baugh made a difference intholmek- 
field and they felt it Saturday.
Beetlmny was defending the south 
goal. Comfort kiekod to the 25-yard 
lino, Kelly running, it back to the 
30-yard line. Kelly made two trios 
and was stopped, finally kicking to 
Tech's 32. Tech here received it pen­
alty of five yoards. Wierman made 
two tries at tjie ends and failed. 
Marshall finally kicking lo Kelly on 
Bethany’s 10 yard line. A pass from 
Stewart to Kelly was good for 15 
yards. Kelly Kelly then took the 
ball around Tech's right end for 35 
yards and a touchdown, avoiding the 
ladders within ft distance of five 
yards of each other. Hughes kicked 
his twenty-second goal.
Hughes kicked off to Brumbaugh 
From hero Tech carried three con­
secutive first downs and threw a 
Bethany rooting hoc- 
: intercepted a pass 
ic.li's scoring chance 
ing. Hero the quarter 
through 
at end.
scare into the 
lion. I.idderda 
and ruined T 
for the time hr 
ended. Randolph made 
the line then three 1
Kelly made seven and first down. 
Tech succeeded in stopping the Buf­
faloes at this point and from then 
011 the ball was in mid-field until 
the beginning of the second half.
During the closing minutes of the 
last quarter, Stewart opened up with 
several long passes until he was 
within striking distance of the line 
when he gave the ball to Randolph 
who plunged the remaining three 
yards.
The Tartans put up one of the 
most wonderful exhibiions of fight­
ing spirit that has been seen on the 
Bethany field, running the ball for 
long gains in the closing minutes of 
tch last quarter after Bethany had 
scored her second counter.
BETHANY—14 TECH—o
Lidderdale .......Left End....... Wittmer
Kidder . Left Tackle......... Comfort
Lalto ...............Left Guard.... Henderson
Hughes (C).........Center.................... Irwin
.......Right Guard Rosenbloom
........Right Tackle.... Sprinkle
..........Right End......;....... liable
.......Quarterback....... Marshall
.Right Half.... Anderson
Left Half.......... Wierman
.Fullback.... Brumbaugh
Dunn ..
Gwinn .......
Smith .........
Stewart .....
Armstrong
Kelly ...........
Randolph .
Score by periods:
Bethany ....................-......... 70-07 14
Tech ....................................... 000 o— o
Substitutions—Tech, Pittman for 
Brumbaugh, Robertson for Wierman; 
Bethany, Rosenberg for Kidder, 
Roark for Smith. Riblet for Stew­
art, Cotter for Kelly. Touchdowns-- 
Kelly, Randolph, Goals from touch- 
flown—Hughes 2.
ATTENTION! VARSITY CLAN!
There will be a meeting of all 
undergraduates of the Varsity Clan 
¡11 the. Gym at 4:30 on Wednesday 
(today). All men who have joined 
the VArsity Clan or who desire to, 
should be present. This is an organ­
ization meeting and many important 
things will be considered.
Pennsylvania leads the union with 
6 higher institutions of learning.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWO.THE TARTAN.WEDNESDAY;'NOVEMBER 1?,- 1920.
Sariatt
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Activities Board.
Entered in the postoffice of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
Editor-in-Chicf ..................................................................................Lawrence Paquin
Phone Hazel 9422
Buuineiis Manager................................................................................Don A. Sillers
Schenley 9211
EDITORIAL STAFF 
Managing Kditor 
William D. Hall
Ajiuiatant Managing Kditor 
J. T. Ames
News Editor 
J. K.'W. Macalpine
Athlotic Editor 
Fred L. Knowloa
Assistant..............................S. P. Smith
School Editor«
M. M. D................................Helen Lewis
Arts .........................................C. Shuman
Industries................Donald S. Harding
Science ...................................I. Sissman
Art Editor 
M. G. Winslow.
Circulation Manager 
William II. Obenour 
‘ BUSINESS STAFF 
Robert Mills Walter Iieiler
Ackerman D. Sonnemann
i j, tii . U > i!t ¦ i-k ; :c i jiin; a. . -i.
The Editor-in-Chief in responsible for the policy of this paper; the Man­
aging Editor for the make up.
All business communications should be sent to the Business Manager. 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported 
at one«.
The Tartan welcomes ull communications of student interest, if signed, 
the signature to be withhold if desired.
All news items must bo in the student pestofiice, Central Building, before 
4:ii0 l\ M. Fridays.
The Tartan Ofiicc, Room 152 Arts, will be open as follows:
Wednesday, 3:30-4:30. Thursday 3:30-4:30.
SCHOLASTIC COACHING PLAN
This plan is based upon the belief that the average student who enter» 
C. I. T. comes to gain an education along technical lines, and further, 
that when he tries for the "team” in some branch of intercollegiate 
activity, he does so because he likes the sport and has th desire to do 
something to add to the prestige of his alma mater.
It is recognized that participation in inter-collegiate sport requires a 
great deal ol’ a students time, consequently lie has less time at his dis­
posal than other students, in which to study and prepare his lessons.
As the authorities oJ' C. I. T. have in various ways given their approval 
to the continuance of inter-collegiate sports, and as it is a matter ol' 
record that each year a number of. students who participate in sport 
activities are dropped from the rolls for Low scholarship, we i’eel that 
some plan is desirable which will help these students to keep up in thair 
studies, at least during the period in which they are giving up so much 
time in order to represent their .college in a fitting manner.
Under the belief that it is easier for the student to keep up in his 
studies if he is looked after right from the beginning of the school year, 
rather than after lie has fallen behind, we advance lu following plan: 
this plan presupposes, first, co-operation on the part of the faculty and 
students, Second, some agency which will attend to the actual coaching 
of the team men needing aid. Third, some device or arrangement where­
by the coaching group may be promptly notified when an individual is 
in need of attention.
Under this plan we propose that the Dean of Men shall furnish to the 
faculty heads of the various departments concerned a list of the students 
who make up the squad. These heads in turn to give a copy of the list 
to each member of their teaching staff with instructions to the effect, 
“that when any man on the list shows signs of falling down in his work, 
he (the instructor) is to lilt in a blank form and send it to the coaching 
gruop," thus notifying this agency at once that a certain individual 
is in jieod of help.
The two scholastic fraternities, Tau Beta Pi and Alpha I an have, 
offered to take over the coaching work free of charge and if the students 
of the Division of Science and Engineering of the Division of Arts are 
looked after by Tau Beta Pi. and the students from the Division of 
Industries by Alpha Tau, the work will be divided up in such manner 
as to prevent its becoming a hardship to the men of either group,
In practice when the President of 'I’. B. P. or A, T. receives the notice 
blank, he shall assign a member In the duty of coaching, this member to 
be chosen on the basis of qualification, natural aptitude and place of 
residence.
II must be born in mind that ahoul nil a coach should do is to suggest 
and give general explanations, hut under no consideration is he in do the 
work for the student, li Is very possible that in a number of cases, all 
the help needed will be for the coach to get after the student and in :t 
tactful way oblige him to put In his study periods conscientiously. It is 
also suggested that the coach may be able to handle the student to 
belter advantage If he will consul! with the students ins Iruc I or where 
noconsary,
II is required that the scholastic coach shall report to the (iraduate 
Manager, (as frequently as may lie necessary) so that he may be con­
stantly in touch with the coaching work,
Some of the advantages of the plan are, team material may be kept 
together continuously for a period of years permitting a certain con­
tinuity in the teachings of the sport coach, the maintenance of good 
scholarship standard among the men on uthelotic teams, the possibility 
of weakening the team at a critical period owing to scholastic deficiencies 
is largely removed, if the newcomers in college know of the system it 
is probable that more of them would try for the various teams, as many 
of them keep away for fear of getting behind in their studies.
In general, any plan which in a legitimate manner helps to keep up 
the scholastic standard of the student body is of advantage to the stu­
dents and to the Institute. —CONTRIBUTED
Nov.
Nov.
Nov.
Nov.
Nov.
Nov.
Dec.
Dec.
Dec.
Dec.
STUDENT CALENDAR
i—Soph-Plebe Dance, M. M. ip.............................................................................Union
—Dance by Sophomore Arts to all Arts Division
Exhibition Hall, Arts Bldg.
—Football—Tech vs. W. & J......................................................................Tech Field
)—Football Smoker .........................................................................................................Union
i—4:30—6:00 p. m.—Freshmen Reception by Dean of Men
and Dean of Women..........................................................Union
-27—Thanksgiving Recess.
-Alumnae Dance...................................................................................................................Union
-Sophomore Industries Dance to all Industries Students.............Union
—Dorms No. 4 and 6 Dance....................................................................................Union
—M. M. D. Guild Bazaar .........................................................................................Union
OFFICIAL ANNOUNCEMENT
The Pennsylvania College for Women, Carnegie Institute of Tech­
nology and the University of Pittsburgh are joining in a celebration of 
the Tercentenary of the Landing of the Pilgrims, the exercises will be 
held in Carnegie Music Hall at ten o’clock on Thursday morning, Nov­
ember 18th. The orator will be Cano Barrows of England, This is one of 
a series of meetings which the local committee has arranged for through­
out the city on -that day.
Members of the faculty and students who do not have classes at the 
time of the exercises are invited to be present.
THOMAS S. BAKER Secretary,
12NGA C; E MENT A N N 011N CICME NT
The engagement of Col. Walter V. 
Bingham, Professor of Psychology 
and Director of the Division of Ap­
plied Psychology, of tin' Carnegie 
Institute of Technology and Miss 
Todd is announced. Miss Todd is the 
is the daughter of Professor David 
Todd, the astronomer of Amherst 
College, and of Mrs. Mabel l.oonis 
Todd, traveler and author. The wed­
ding will take place on December 
fourth in Cocoanut Grove, Florida, 
where Professor Todd is now living. 
Professor George Herbert Palmer, of 
Harvard, will perform the marriage 
ceremony. Miss Todd is the author
of the "Life of Mary I'.. Stearnes” 
as well as of a volume on "Peru” 
and is the joint author with profes­
sor Blanchard, of the University of 
Grenoble, of a recently published 
"Geography of Prance." Col. Bing­
ham was executive secretary of the 
committee on classification of per­
sonnel in the army, .11)17-1918, on 
the Personnel Branch of the Gener­
al Staff, U. S. A.. 1918-iv) 1 n, and 
chairman of the Division of Anthro­
pology and Psychology of the Na­
tional Research Council 1910-1920. 
He is the author of "Studies in Mel­
ody," "Army Personal Work," “Men­
tal Testing,” "Measuring a Work­
man’s Skill,” etc.
DESIGN PLEBES
The Annual Banquet of the De­
sign Plebes was held in the Dutch 
Room, Fort Pitt Hotel, Monday iiite 
at nine p. m. The Plebes scored a 
complete success insofaras the secre­
cy of the affair was concerned—It 
is with great pleasure that they an­
nounce they were honored by 110. 
less great personage than the Soph­
omore President. Mr. Herbert Wat- 
tcrson, whom it must be admitted 
attended very unwillingly. As Pres. 
Watterson was wending his weary 
way homeward un thoughtful of the 
Plcbo Class—, a car swerved toward 
the curb and four plebes leapt out, 
a la gunmen, and bodily deposited 
His Honor, more or less rudily, in 
tonneau of said car and speedily 
niade way to the Fort Pitt Hotel. Jt 
must be admitted, (to-his credit) 
that Pres. Watterson waged a game 
battle for liberty but his efforts 
proved futile; for a few moments he 
was a prisoner in the Fort Pitt fac­
ing his happy but exhausted captors.
Some hours later when the ban­
que tiers were assembled for the 
toast, Mr, Watterson was called up­
on to pronounce the blessing, and he 
responded with a phrase that was 
very shocking to his hearers and 
cannot be repeated in print. After 
this verbal out break, Watterson 
was bound to a chair and had the 
.extreme pleasure of watching the 
Plebes dine. He was.released a short 
while later to be allowed to eat but 
attempted to escape again, via the 
banquet table, but this time he also 
met with failure as the plebes would 
not be denied the pleasure and hon­
or of his company. Having been 
made fast again, Watterson had the 
extreme pleasure of being fed by 
one of the charming entertainers, u 
most stunning brunette, who declar­
ed the pleasure was all hers, after 
that the Plebes had 110 further trou­
ble with their quest, he being quite, 
satisfied with his lot.
President Ward Tall man of the 
Plebes class was toastmaster and 
called upon those present for speech- 
or stories, who responded more or 
less grocifully. Even this honorable 
personage, Pres. Watterson, now en­
tirely subdued by the kindness of 
his fair guard, responded grociljully 
and thanked the plebes for the1 in­
vitation, forced upon him (as it was, 
expressed his appreciation of our 
treatment of him while a prisoner 
and admitted the pep and spirijt of 
the Freshmen of Design School.
The quests were entertained dur­
ing the evening by two fair enter­
tainers who danced and sang and 
whose efforts were appreciated as 
indicated by the vociferous and gen­
erous applause.
The menu was as follows:
Fruit Cocktail 
Bouillon 
One-half Roast Chicken 
Brown Potatoes Green Peas
Combination Salad
Ice Cream Cake
Coffee
The Design IMebe Class is indebted 
to Mr. Tod Siferd, Mr, A. Laws jilted 
and Mr. I Felstoin for the arrange­
ments which clothed in darkest,,se­
crecy, and to the Kidnapping Com­
mittee, Messrs. Ted Siferd, A. Low 
Stiller, A. Felstein, Phil /.¡miners, 
and Les Cousinns, who were in 
charge of the transportation of the 
Mr. Watterson to and from the Ho­
tel, This job would have done cred­
it to Lefty Louie or any other of 
the modern célébrités as far as ex­
pediency was concerned.
The aim of the Anvil has never 
been discovered. It is quite as in­
definite as that of an excited woman 
or a juicy and unruly grape fruit. 
In this it shares place with its pos­
ition in the paper. Last year the 
Anvil was our chief Will-o-the-wisp 
and roved at will through the col­
umns, guided by the hand of an 
imaginative press-man. The weekly 
joke would often at first be discov­
ered in the church notes only to 
wind up in the editorial column. 
Or the seeker after athletic news 
would read how Marshall had skirt­
ed left wing for 25 yards and then 
suddenly learn that Prof. Geckler 
has been run down by a hearse.
Now the ponds begin to freeze, 
and soon I’ll doff my Beeveedees. 
and ohre garments thin. My frame 
I’ll drape with flannels red, put six 
more comforts 011 the bed, and bar­
gain for some gin. I shudder for 
each flapper’s knees, exposed to ev­
ery wintry breeze by these new fish­
net socks; the vefry ones who wear 
seal skins are courting chill-blains 
in their shins, and catching colds 
in flocks. But I’m not here to give 
advice, I’m just to mention snow 
and ice, and other kindred things, 
as Christinas lime, and coasting sleds 
and furnaces and double beds, and 
turkey’s necks and wings which we 
must out a week at least to clear the 
debris id' the feast each thankful 
season brings. Instead of hieing af­
ter dark to cozy benches in the park. 
I'll take her to a show; or if the 
old man’s check is late I’ll make a 
heavy parlor date and turn the gas 
down low. "The melancholy days 
are come,” you said a mouthful, and 
then some, "the saddest of the year,"
but with the vacation close at hand, 
and Ziegfeld's Follies, and the Grand 
we still can find some cheer.
With the failure of Article Ten 
and the immediate possibility of an­
other war, so I’m told (our cook 
voted the straigt Democratic ticket) 
we suggest the following for prom­
inent position in the initial ditches.
The cook who believes all eggs 
should be done in b minutes.
The laundress who reduces col­
lars into barbed wire entanglements.
The Prof. who considers 5 chap­
ter a fair assignment.
The girl wno thinks 15 minute 
wait heightens heart interest.
The shoe black who coniines his 
attentions to the pet corn.
The janitor who contuses the fur­
nace with the refrigerator.
The youth who admits cough- 
drops to be his greatest vice.
The barber who made us tempor­
arily socially extinct.
and
HER new Victrola Mechanic.
YES, WE’VE NOTICED IT, TOO
A line example of woman's vanity 
and probably suggested by past ex­
periences with her corsettiere is the 
fruitless attempt of a buxom lady 
on a street car to fit herself into a 
2 inch vacancy on a seat.
FASHION NOTE
For the ladies: With the approach 
of cold weather handkerchiefs are 
being worn quite extensively this 
season. On especially inclement days 
wrist watches and a good warm 
string of glass beads may be added 
to the ward-robe. The use of the veil 
for a face covering is becoming more 
popular although the knees will re­
main as usual.
For the men: The vogue of the 
two piece trousers is still strong. 
Each piece consists of a long funnel 
shape contrivance for the leg with .1 
small veranda attachment. These are 
generally worn under the overcoat 
but over the socks. Departure from 
this leads invariably to arrest or so­
cial isolation. The underwear may 
be worn either with or without but­
tons depending on the descretion of 
the laundress.
STUDENT VESPERS
I11 spite of the fact that Thursday 
was a holiday for the three school, 
a good crowd was out to the student 
Vespers service to hear Bishop 
Whitehead. Next week there will be 
a good speaker and Mrs. Christine 
Miller Clemson will sing. Services 
begin at 4:15. It is "Tech” spirit 
that is being shown over there at 
the First Babtist Church. Is it going 
to be real spirit? Of course!
And don’t forget that as much as 
you put into your life, you will gain 
two fold measure.
LOST AND FOUND 
Found. Pair of black gloves after 
Night Science Assembly Nov 8. ¡11 
Room 209 Science Bldg. Apply Dean 
of Men’s Office on any Monday eve­
ning.
Found. On "the cut” Tuesday, Nov. 
9H1, a rosary. Apply Dean of Men's 
Office.
INVASION OF TARTAN CO­
HORTS AROUSE WHEELING
(Continued from page 1.)
Corps deserve a lot of credit for 
they too had to make the trip in ¿1 
truck and things were far from 
comfortable for them.
After the game Tech not in the 
least down hearted marched back to 
Wheeling for another bite to eat be­
fore statring for home. Some of the 
party started exploring the town. 
One movie house was still showing 
Warren Kerrigan in "Custer’s Last 
Stand” and as the "rendering of a 
few "short spellers” inside did not 
please the management the next 
place invaded was a department 
store. But it was 110 use the clerks 
all crawled under the counteers and 
train time was fast approaching so 
all gathered for the return home.
As the train pulled out I heard 
Wheeling heave a great sigh of re­
lief for at last those Tech boys had 
gone home and the town could once 
more slumber peacefully. Bethany 
too was glad for then she was able 
to have a torch light parade with­
out any fear of being eclipsed.
If you called the train special go­
ing down, then I guess it was super­
special coming home. In the first 
car the team was resting after a 
hard battle. In the second a repro­
duction of Monte Carlo was travel­
ling on eight wheels. In the third 
the All Star Trio furnished music 
for those who cared to dance. The 
fourth was fittingly decorated with 
palms, roses and other forms of 
"decorations.” The bride wore a— 
I beg your pardon I tliot 1 was a 
society editor. Anyhow I guess we 
could have used a minister had we 
had one. For I know that going 
down we had some of the fairer sex 
along and coming back 1 couldn’t 
find a one of them. Oh yes! 1 know 
now the last car was dark!!
Well Tech arrived in town and it 
sure was some trip. Never before was 
such a spirit displayed by the stu­
dents and officers of the Administra­
tion who accompanied us. Never be­
fore did the football team light hard­
er than on that Wheeling field. The 
Band was supreme and the Signal 
Corps was a credit. The only sad 
part—but lets forget that. Are we 
down-hearted? 1 guess not. W. & 
J. had better take heed for the game 
next Saturday will not be played 
011 the "Fair Grounds" and Tech 
spirit is at its height.
ff Ey? I
1 , « !i Biff offe
Te c ¡i rP-Í!
m
FRANK BROTHERS
Fifth Avenue Boot Shop
Near Forty-Eighth Street, New York 
Boots, Slippers, Hosiery for Men,
Wome nand Children
PITTSBURGH, Jenkins Arcade
CHICAGOMichigan Blvd. Bldg. Corner Washington St.
ST. LOUIS
Arcade Building
NEW HAVENHotel Taft 
BOSTON Little Building 
CLEVELAND 
Athletic Club Bldg.
WASHINGTON Woodward Bldg. opp. Shoreham Hotel SAN FRANCISCO 
Whitney Building 133 Geary Street
LINTON TRUNK AND BAG CO.
Manufacturers 
BRIEF CASES HAND BAGS
BOSTON BAGS TRUNKS
SUIT CASES LAUNDRY BAGS
10 per cent discount to students.
943 LIBERTY AVENUE .:. .:. .:. .:. PITTSBURGH, PA.
ATTENTION STUDENTS
Laboratory Aprons
TECH STATIONERY and MEMORY BOOKS 
Banners, Pillows, Pennants,
CANDY, SODA, LUNCH, CIGARS
FORBES QUALITY SHOP
3812 FORBES STREET, COR. BOQUET
£ ____________________________________ *TECH CAFETERIA
LANGLEY LABORATORY 
Under Supervision of Varsity Clan
OUREATS AND PRICES .
CAN’T BE BEAT 
ENOS KIRKPATRICK, Manager
PATRONIZE THE TARTAN ADVERTISERS.
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
DR. HUGH B. SPEER, Pastor 
Shady and Northumberland Avenue* 
Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M. Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M.and 8:00 P. M.Young People’s Service, 7:00 P. M. Brief and Warm-Hearted Messagea. A cordial welcome to all.
Grace Church
(Reformed)
BAYARD and DITHRIDGE STS. 
FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister 
SERVICES:Sunday School—9:45 A. M. Morning Worship—11 A. M.Social hour and Luncheon for stu­dents, 15c, at 6 o’clock.Christian Endeavor—7 P. M. Popular Evening Services at 7:45. Sermon for Head and Heart.A cordial welcome to all students.
iiHiiiHiiHiiiiiiiiipiiiiii 
WE’VE FITTED FEET
OVER FIFTY YEARS
P. LUDEBUEHL & SON
SHOES AND HOSIERY 
PENN AND FRANKSTOWN
MEN’S BROGUES
$12.00 to $15.00
We are showing a fine lot of 
new—Fall and Winter Broques 
—at prices that are going to 
make them very popular, in
CORDOVAN - BOARDED 
CALF AND SCOTCH 
GRAIN 
OXFORDS AND BOOTS
STETSONS
OXFORDS AND BOOTS 
$13.00 to $16.00
<wniMUMneiiinwiiiHiniiiimiiiiHiai!i!iiiui!!iiiiiiiiimi3!’.iut!iiii!iiiii(!iii!i!!;ii;!iiiiii!:
BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN 
CHURCH 
Bellefleld and Fifth Avenues
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D. D., 
Minister
Preaching Servico 11 and 8.Sunday school at 10. |Christian Endeavor at 7.
Wo want the Tech boya to at­tend our services and learn to know ua as the congregation of "Friendly People". A hearty wel­come awaits you.
ST. PAUL’S CATHEDRAL 
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.
Magees: 6:30, 8:00, 9:00, 10:00 and 11:00
4. M. on Sundays ajid Holy Day*.
Vespers on Sunday at 7:80 P. M.
Pew 68. Middle Alale, for Tech Student*.
TRANSITS AND LEVEL! 
ALL SUPPLIES FOR THE 
DRAFTING ROOM
Engineers’ Equipment, Instru­
ments of Precision, Blue Print and Brown Print Papers and Cloths.
B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
126 SIXTH STREET
MUS Of IMilKdU jlgg^
ix:gL El rä=p-
---ir
ilr Ompja InrnjSîRss
l+HJ#!38’ °
4915 Forbes Street
LEF AX
supplies sold by 
A. J. HYND, Junior Mech. 
Locker 2365, Science Bldg. 
Opp. Plebe Locker Room
.:. Phone: Schenley 9211
PATRONIZE THE TARTAN ADVERTISERS.

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1920.THE TARTAN.PAGE THREE
STILL
PICKING TEAM
The Tech hockey team was out at 
• practice early Sunday morning, de­
spite the cold wether, and the 
temtations of sleeping in, on a day 
when it seemed like two below zero. 
- The players are rounding into 
form, and many of them are devel­
oping a keen shooting eye, as one 
may find out by interviewing the 
¦goal-guard. At practice the candi­
dates are divided and one group 
takes the offensive, while the other 
takes the defensive, and in this way 
they are taught each phase of the 
game.
Major Gordon, coach, will have 
little' trouble picking two teams to 
represent Tech, on the rink, and 
there is keen interest in the coming 
games. There are still several games, 
which have not been definitely 
scheduled, but the team will get un­
der way. The student body will be 
treated to some real hockey, and all 
that goes with it.
The annual hop of dormatories 4 
and 6 will be held on Friday, De­
cember 10, 1920, in the Carnegie Un­
ion. Those who have attended these 
dances previous years know just 
what Dorms 4 and 6 can do in this 
lin of entertainment.
For the others we might add that 
last years dance was one of thè best 
givn during the year, and the 1920 
affair will be better than ever, as a 
good-live committee is working hard 
.to make it so.
All men who have resided in these 
dormatories in past years are cor­
dially invited to attend. Remember 
the date,. Friday, Dec. 10, Union.
MW DISTANCE MEN I w
LOSE TO LAFAYETTE
Miller comes in third and breaks 
Lafayette record of consecu­
tive straight scoring.
Qualified-Unbiassed
As a patron of ours, you al­
ways have at your disposal 
confidential counsclon matters 
of business, credit or invest­
ment. This counsel draws 011 
more than half a century of 
: uccessful experience in the 
banking business, and it has 
the further advantage of being 
wholly unbiassed.
Capital and Surplus,
$11,124,136,20
Mellon National Bank
Pitts c5h. Pa.
j: BELLEFIELD ' 
:: SHOE REPAIR
Finest Work
OPPOSITE LIBRARY *
HARRY’S
RESTAURANT 
AND LUNCH ROOM
Bert Meals at reasonable prices
*719 Forbeo St. Oakland
DO YOU DANCE?
Dancing Lesson 
Class and Private
Jacque’s Dancing Academy
Craig and Forbes
iaiUIIIIIWIIIIIIIIIIIl!nin>!lll!ll!llllllli!IIIIIIi!lll!i!!l!llllllliniUUUIIi!lU!!llllIIIUl!UUIIlin
6ch»nley 9120
Tech’s distance men were defeated 
Saturday by Lafayette in a dual cross­
country meet 37-18. C. D. Miller fin­
ished third for Tech, thereby break­
ing Lafayette’s record of two perfect 
score wins so far this year. Lafayette 
has the finest cross-country team in 
the East and holds the Eastern-Inter- 
Collegiate championship, as well as 
having Bob Crawford the Middle 
States Inter-Collegiate cross-country 
champion on the team. He won the 
race in 36:49 and his showing makes 
him a favorite to retain the Middle 
State title and a strong contender for 
the I. C. A. A. A. A. championship. 
Great credit should be given to Miller 
for his running which was the best 
displayed by an opponent of Lafay­
ette this year.
The race was _held ov& the hilly 
six-mile Paxmosa course, just out of 
Easton. The Tech men went over 
the course in the morning, but were 
hadicapped in the race by their un­
familiarity with it. The whole team 
of seven men made an excellent show­
ing though and held the Plaid colors 
high.
The Summaries:
First—Crawford, Lafayette, 36:4; 
second—Mcfall, Lafayette, 37:33; 
third—Miller, Tech, 38:14; fourth— 
Heisler, Lafayette, 38:29; fifth—Mont­
gomery, Lafayette, 38:29; sixth— 
Tracey, Lafayette, 38:40; seventh— 
Kumble, Lafayette, 39:21; eighth— 
Cavette, Tech, 39:29; ninth—McDon­
ald, Tech, 39:59; tenth—Code, Tech, 
40:28; eleventh—foster, Tech 40:38.
DEAN SCALES ACTIVE 
FOB GIRLS' WELFARE
As a result of the work of Mrs. 
Laura Scales, newly appointed Dean 
of Women, those who look to the 
future predict that Carnegie Tech 
shall prosper, much as England did 
—if the writer may draw an histor­
ical parallel,— under the reign of 
Queen Elizabeth. Little up to the 
present time, has been heard of her 
activities for silently and unassum­
ingly yet a coup sur the Dean is 
working for the future of Tech.
That we arc exceedingly fortun­
ate in having Dean Scales in our 
midst is a gact realized by perhaps 
too few. Not only active on the 
campus but also in Pittsburgh we 
find the Club Women attentive to 
the advice of our Dean regarding 
the future of women in the out­
side world. Discussing this topic
in several of her recent addresses 
she has emphasized the need of a 
broader view of life on the part, 
of women, who must eventually 
play an important role in the af­
fairs of the nation. Her opinions, 
conservative to be sure, reveal a 
person possessed of a rare faculty 
that of a keen insight into the fu­
ture which applied to the prob­
lems at Tech will some day prove
valuable.
Efficient as have been those in 
charge of the scholastic activities 
of Margaret Morrison girls yet the 
need for some one to direct their 
other activities has long been felt-. 
It is this shortcoming in Tech’f-
administration that Dean Scales is 
so skillfully filling and with her 
services we can all look forward 
with certainty to the day when the 
girls of Tech shall stand on a level 
with those from Vassar and Smith. 
In fact when they shall hold a place 
in the world parallel to that of the 
Carnegie Engineer.
One of the Dean’s first efforts has 
been to bring the girls of Margaret 
Morrison and Design into closer re­
lationship, to eliminate a little ac­
tion from one school at one time 
and from the another at a later 
time. In short to bring about solid­
ified action on the part of all girls 
for Tech and change the general 
aspects of co-ed life at our school.
Already we have seen signs of n 
new co-ed spirit on the Campus. 
How many of us expected to see any 
of the girls at the foot ball rally 
before the Lehigh game?
Not one or two of them came, but 
a veritable host of them came out. 
Abandoning work and braving the 
elements they showed a new spirit 
for Tech, setting an example for
Tartans and Presidents Clash
Saturday In Last Game of Year
Game marks seventh time schools have met—Tech yet to score on 
Red and Black who have run up 172 points on Plaid—Tartans 
outweighed sixteen points to the man—expect hard fought game.
W. & J. Has Heaviest Team In Years
The Plaid gridders wind up the 
present season next Saturday when 
they play Washingon and Jefferson 
at Tech field for the seventh time. 
This is the second time W. & J. has 
battled with the Plaid in Pittsburgh 
the last encounter taking place in 
1908 and was one by the Presidents 
30-0. In the six games played so far 
between the two schools, Tech has 
never been able to cross the Red 
and Black goal line, tho in the ma­
jority of the contests they have giv­
en the Presidents a hard fight. Last 
year the game was played at Wash­
ington early in the season before 
Coach Steffen had a chance to get 
his green material in shape and W. 
& J. won 20-0. This year the game 
comes at the close of Tech’s season 
and Steffen will have his warriors 
all primed for the contest. If they 
play as they did in the final game 
last year against Pitt, Morrow’s men 
will have a hard task ahead of them 
to come out on the top side of the 
score.
The Tech team which will line 
up next Saturday will average about 
166 lbs. to W. & J.’s 182. This means 
a difference of 16 lbs. to the man 
and will be a sever handicap to the 
Techites. Tech’s line averages 173 
while he President’s forwards aver­
age 187, a difference here of 14 lbs. 
to the man.
The Black and lied team this year 
is the hoaviest that has been put 
out by tho Washington Institution 
in years. Templeton at loft guard 
is the heaviest man on the team, 
who scales at 302 lbs. The lightest
man on the line Loucks, right end, 
who weighs 175 lbs. Brenkert is the 
lightest man on the whole team at 
fullback who registers at 160 lbs.
Whether the Tech forwards will 
be able to stop the plunging of 
Brenkert and West is a question. 
Here the difference in weight will 
be the most telling. Wittmer and 
liable with the help of the backs 
should be able . to keep the ends 
clear and stop Erickson and Eilson 
from making large gains around the 
corners.
Whatever the outcome of the 
game next Saturday Tech adherents 
feel sure that Steffens’s men will 
again display those fighting quali­
ties which have distinguished their 
playing all season. While Tech has 
never yet been able to defeat a team 
of the first rank in collegiate foot­
ball, they have never failed to im­
press upon their opponents the fact 
that they had been in a football
game.
Statistics of the Washington and 
Jefferson team follow.
Garbisch, (C) .................Guard 21 190
Name Position Age Wt.
Carroll ........................................End 23 180
Loucks ........................................End 24 175
Templeton ........................Guard 21 202
Dunbar ................................Quartr 23 150
Armstrong ........................Tackle 22 .190
Stein .....................................Tackle 23 19.)
Erickson ..................................Back 22 178
Brenkert ...................................Back 22 160
Eilson ........................................Back 22 182
Ewing ........................................Back 30 170
Crook ..................................................Con ter 23 181
Wost ...........................................Back 20 163
Bill Says-
NATIONAL RESTAURANT 
H. Warner, Prop.
“Opklgnd'e Moit Popuar Eating Place”
114-116-118 Atwood 8t., Plttiburgh, Pa.
lIHIllilKIK
m mm siop
NEAREST TO TECH
Cor. Craig and Forbes
FRED FARGEL, Proprietor
Nearest and Best Laundry 
Agency
DON’T ARGUE
If you come into work some morn­
ing and the boss bawls you out for 
being late and your watch says one 
minute to and his says four minutes 
after—No matter how accurate your 
time is or how many years your 
watch has run without losing a 
second—and no matter if the boss’s 
watch is an Ingersoll—the boss is 
right—so don’t argue.
If you have a dizzy barber cut 
one side burn higher than the other 
and you call his attention to it and 
lie says they’re sraight—no matter 
how uneven they are, please remem­
ber that its very hard to show a 
person who is naturally cocked-eyed, 
what is straight—lie’s right so don’t 
argue.
If you’re helping your girl pick 
out a pretty piece of brown silk 
and you say, “Ah! there’s a pretty 
piece of dark brown material,” and 
she says, “Np, Harold, that's black,” 
please remember that no matter how 
brown it is, when a woman says a 
thing’s black its black!! So don’t 
argue.
If you get an E in math and you 
think you should got at least an 
A, and you go around and t6ll the 
prof. about it and ask if he’s made 
some mistake and lie says, ‘‘No 
there’s no mistake, your work has 
not been up to standard,” please 
remember that profs arc not used 
to being convinced of anything and 
no matter how much of a math 
shark you are, he’s right so don’t 
argue.
DESIGN SOPHS. FI/.N [/KCE
The Sophomore, dance of tho Div­
ision of Arts will be Friday, Nov. 
17. This is the first class dance of 
the year. That the Sophs intend to 
have a live dance is indicated ba­
ttle’announcement, that 110 one will 
be allowed to come without a part­
ner. All students and members of 
the faculty from this. division are 
invited.
Mr. and Mrs. H. S. Hubbell and 
Mr. and Mrs. Paul Simboli will act 
as chaperons,
The committee: II. S. Torbert,
Miss Mildred Williams, Miss Mar­
garet Van Winkle Bowers.
CHAPTER OF SCALP AND 
BLADE IS INSTALLED
IN CARNEGIE TECH
Recently there has been installed at 
Tech a chapter of an organization, 
which will have for one of its main 
objects, the furthering of the inter­
ests of the school.
It is composed of men from Hu; 
city of Buffalo, N. Y., and only men 
from that city are eligible.
It is by no means a new organiza­
tion, or local, but there arc chapters 
in many colleges. The Scalp and 
Blade was founded in 1896 at Cor­
nell University, and since that time 
it has grown to be one of the most 
influential organizations in Buffalo, 
and at the colleges, where there 
have been chapters:
The chapters of the. 'Scalp- and 
Blade are as follows:
Cornell University, University of 
Michigan, Colgate. Massachusettes 
Institute of Technology, Dartmouth, 
Troy Poly-Tech, Hobart, and the Un­
iversity of Pennsylvania.
some of our male students who as 
yet are delinquent in catching the 
real Tech spirit. I dare say that a 
sudden recollection of this colorful 
scene influenced the team in their 
spirit against Lehigh and gave them 
new courage to hold their oppon­
ents for downs time and again.
In the interim things have been 
moving fast and furious among the 
girls and a new organization has 
arisen on the campus bearing a 
modest title—The Neudeus. Over the 
inevitable tea cup these girls have 
planned a future of Tech first, last 
and only, with the hopes of setting 
a pace of Tech spirit which all will 
be envious to follow.
WINSLOW MADE ART ED.
Morton Winslow, Junior in the De­
partment of Painting and Design, 
has been appointed Art Editor of 
the Tiirtan. Mr. Winslow came to 
Tech from Smith Village, N. Y., as a 
plebe, two years ago, enrolling in P. 
and D.
His ability as an artist has ob­
tained for him a scholarship in the 
Department of Painting and Design 
this year. His work in last year’s 
Thistle, as a cartoonist, attracted 
favorable- notice.
Besides being Art Editor of the 
Tartan, Mr. Winslow is also active on 
the staff of the Puppet and contrib­
uted a number of illustrations for the 
1920 Thistle.
TECH RESERVES 
ERIE HIGH 22-0
Gibson. Smith, McPhee and Don­
ohue star for Plebe Team— 
Last game of season.
The Carnegie Tech Reserve team 
defeated the Central High School 
team of Erie, Pennsylvania last Sat­
urday. 22-0. In this game the Re­
serves presented their very best 
game of the season, and at no time 
did the high school boys threaten 
very seriously. Whenever they did 
appear to be “on their way" for a 
touchdown, the wonderful defensive 
play of the Reserves immediately 
put a stop to it.
Credit must be given to the Cen- 
ral High team tho for its game light 
against heavy odds, for Tech had 
to light for every yard gained, and 
on two occasions has to show some 
mighty good stuff on the defensive 
side to prevent the Erie men from 
scoring. On one • occasion, the ball 
was on the Reserve’s* 2 yard line, 
and were held for downs. Again, 
towards the’latter part of the game, 
Erie High substituted an entire 
backfield, and opened up a forward 
passing attack. But the reserves 
again rose to the occasion and broke 
them up in grand style.
In McPhee, McCollum. Smith and 
Gibson, the Reserves presented .1 
good backfield, which although not 
perfect, contains a lot of fight, and 
ability to run good interference for 
the man carrying the ball. GilSsonV 
generalship is above par.
The reserves scored in tho first 
quarter on a pretty 23 yard run 
around left end by Donahue, follow­
ed up by a 20 yard run by Smith, 
who carried it over on the next 
play.
In the third quarter, the Reserve, 
added their second touchdown when 
Swann skirted right end for th 1 - 
necessary distance.
In tho final quarter, Smith inter­
cepted an attempted forward pass 
of Erie’s, and raced 30 yards for 
the last touchdown.
The lineup:
Erie—o Reserves—22
Cleary.......................L. E. Donley
Post .........................L. T... Berglund
Weible.......................L. G...... Williams
Lloyd............................C.......................... Griggs
Anderson.................R. (i — Shillinger
Deary........................It. 'I'.. K<\
Mayer......................R. E... . .. Swann
Q. Donnluu
Hanley...................L. II...................... McPhe.-
Meehan.............. R. 11.. Smith
Wright .. .. F. McCollum
Score by periods:
Erie High School. .... o -i o o o
Tech Reserves .............. 7 “ f> 7-
Summary:
Touchdowns: Smith (2), Swann.
Goals from touchdown: Smith (.:) 
Safety: Mayor.
Substitutions:
Carnegie Tech lfcoservos: Peterson
for McCollum, Gibson for Donahue, 
Berryman for Shillinger. Erie High 
School: Wilson for Mohan, Shaney 
for Wright, Carney for Hanley, Ba­
ker for Weaver.
Officials:
Referee: John Carney (Central 
Board.)
Umpire: Eyman, (Carnegie Tech) 
Head Linesman: J. C. Ainsworth,
(Erie Y. M. C. A.)
Time of quarters: 12 minutes.
THE HOUSE OF COBBLESTONES
been established at the University 
of Pittsburgh for over one year. It 
now plans to further jts original 
purpose, that is, to form a connect­
ing link between the student bodies 
of the colleges in the vicinity of 
Pittsbu rgh.
Many active men at “Tech" are 
interested in the House of Cobble­
stones, realizing the benefits that 
could be derived from such an or­
ganization. An organization repre-- 
seating the student bodies of Pitt, 
Tech, W. & J., could settle many 
important affairs that might arise 
between the three schools.
A masquerade ball will be given 
under the auspices of the House of 
Cobblestones at the Hotel Schenley, 
Nov. 19. This dance is given to in­
troduce the ‘ organization formally 
to the city and the students of the 
three schools. The plan of the ball 
is to have the first three dances 
masked. Ten the couples will un­
mask, programs will be given out, 
and a grand march will formally 
open the ball, Dancing will begin 
at 9 and continue until 2.
COAC¡**l. ^
(j; j? ' 
?C’^aL \
its -
COACH
ff
W tflNNV
It f),
NNVE 
* SHIMrttEFOR
ME ^
COACH *2.
COtfE OV\you 
SEV&N
BASKE! BALL SQAD 
ESI IN TECH
Several promising Freshmen re­
port for practice to Coach 
Iddings.
Phe second week of preliminary 
basket ball practice brought out sev­
eral new men and increased the 
squad to fifty-live men. This is the 
largest turnout for basketball at 
this time of th year in the history 
of the school and if numbers are 
any indication Tech should be rep­
resented by an . excellent team. 
Coach Iddings spared what time he 
could from his Freshmen gridders 
and seemed pleased with the mater­
ial which is out so far. The prac­
tice sessions were for the most part 
in charge of Capt. Hammann and 
consisted mainly in drill in funda­
mentals. Basket-shooting, passing, 
pivoting and wind sprints were on 
the card an dthe candidates went 
thru them with vim.
Next week will bring out a num­
ber of men from the Plebe football 
team who have made excellent rec­
ords in basketball before coming to 
Tech. Among the Freshmen who are 
out now and showed up well last 
week ar.e Hundley, Buckley, llimcs, 
and Elias. With so many men on 
the floor and little chance to show 
their real worth it is hard to pick 
out the men who can play the bet­
ter game. Iddings will probably 
start to cut down the squad soon as 
the gym is not large enough to ac­
comodate all who are now out.
Tech has the hardest and most 
attractive schedule this season that 
has ever boon attempted by the 
Tartan cagemen. It: is an excellent 
chance for the school to make a 
reputation for itself on the floor 
and every possible effort is being 
directed toward turning out a team 
which will be able to acquit itself 
with credit.
WNGLEYS
5
^1 a PacknilcBefc
a pneknue
Before the War
poetaneDuring the War
5[< a pnekatfeNOW!
The Flavor Lasts 
So Does the Price!
Christmas Presents!
(Buy now to get boat selections) 
Wallacc Nutting Pictures 
and Calendars 
Inexpensive Novelties with Greetings 
Fountain Pens . Evcrsharp Pencils 
Leather Goods—Monogrammcd Sta­
tionery and Die-Plate with Calling 
Cards. Beautiful Cards and Booklets. 
(1000 styles.)
SINGER PEN & GIFT SHOP
JENKINS ARCADE
TECH, PITT, PENN-STATE and 
W.&J. INTERCOLLEGIATE 
DANCE
THANKSGIVING NIGHT
WILLIAM PENN HOTEL
INFORMAL 
A FITTING SEQUEL TO A GREAT DAY
OAKLAND 
SAVINGS & TRUST 
COMPANY
Member Federal Reserve System 
Capital - - $200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided 
Profits - - $300,000.00
Deposits, Over - $4,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
FOR RENT:— Largo furnished 
room, suitable for one or two 
gentlemen, in private home; 
walking distance from school. 
Phone Schenley 267-R, between 
I seven and eight in evening.

---------------------------------------------------

Special attention is called 
to Murad20sin Tin Boxes
A fjL'n cfltk'Hintirf Ctnu’-cltuidji 
c/id Egyptian 0^tnH¿súitlw]\Md
PAGE POUR.THE TARTAN.WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1920.
Varsity Clan Banquet—Nov. 20—Football Smoker
ALUMNI NEWS
C. 1.1. CHS
Tho for/nalon of clans has caused 
mucii diseus»ion among the grad­
uates and ioriner studens ol tins 
imuiiuuon.
A no constitution ol the Alumni 
Federation suuus tnat 'a clan may 
be lormed Jii any locality wnere ten 
men in good »landing in tne Alumni 
I'ederauon care to unite in mien an 
01 {¿anuiuuon. i lie lormation ol such 
a cian must be passed 011 by tne 
Hoard oi jL/ireciora 01 tjie rcderation 
and 110L inoie tnan one cian can be 
lorined 111 any iocaiuy. A no con- 
stJiULion 01 sucn an organization 
must Jii 110 way be inconsonant witn 
tne constitiuuon ol' tne Alumni JL«ed- 
eration.
dans already organized should 
pay particular attention to that pan 
oi tne constitution wiuoJi requires 
all cian members to be ““O goon 
standing and make an active cam­
paign among tneir members to see 
uiaL ail are paid up.
1.lie Alumni Uilice will send out 
to each cian 111 me near iuture a 
roster oi tne cian, indicating wmeu 
men are 111 good standing.
BA^At UP lliL/ii lliKUUGii YOUR 
ntoWh
PERSONAL NOTE
The Cleveland dan, winch was or­
ganized last April, reports 78 mem- 
bers and at last regular meeting an 
attendance 01 32.
The Athletic Association wishes 
to thank tne men ol tne lresnman 
class wlio bad tne Tech spirit enougu 
to turn out and help 011 tne worn 
oi tearing down the building ad­
joining tne Central building lor use 
111 tne gymnasium remodeling.
Not too muon credit can be given 
men olf tins type, who are willing 
to turn out and do a little work lor 
a good cause without expecting re­
muneration 111 money lor it.
ALUMNI 1'EuERATION
The regular meeting oi’ the Alum­
ni Federation Hoard oi Governors 
was held in the Alumni Office, Wed­
nesday, November 10, with the fol­
lowing members present, Messrs. 
Bright, Til brook, Kitts. Haas, Kig­
ali mont, Mrs. Kush, Mrs. Johnson, 
Miss Cushwa and Miss Stewart.
Tho Clan Comini leu reported that 
plans were being made to form now 
clans in Washington, Baltimore and 
Hartford. Other commit too reported 
progress.
Tho Publication Comm it. too was
ratified as appointed: E. S. Kauh, 
EdiLor-iii-Chief; Helen Stewart, Man­
aging Editor; W. W. Powell, J. W. 
batman. Edward Wendels, Jr., R. J. 
Wean, F. C, McConnell, Sue Watson 
Marsnall, Lillian Griffin, Edna Smith, 
C'ail Sellers and A'lorcnco Bechtel.
SCIENCE GOVERNORS
The regular monthly meeting ol 
the Science Board of Governors was 
held in the Alumni Office Monday. 
November 8, with the following 
members present; Messrs. Wilson, 
Hirsch, Gaston, Engstrom, Orr, Do­
herty, Floyd, Til brook, Nut tal I. and 
Kauh by proxy to Til brook.
Tho mooting proved to be a rous­
ing good one and many points of 
interest wore discussed.
MARGARET MORRISON S. W.
CLUB
Tho rcfgular monthly meeting of 
the Margaret Morrison Social Work 
Club was held in the Roe Hall of 
tho school Wednesday, November 
Oeh An attractive supper was served 
at six o'clock to about thirty mem­
bers. Following a short business 
meeting the under-graduates sub­
mitted interesting reports of their 
summer.
Miss Jionnell of the faculty then 
took charge engineering a few 
stunts and games.
Mrs. Scales was a guest of the 
club. Hilda Cooped, '18, who for 
the past three years has boon en­
gaged 111 settlement work in Phil­
adelphia and has recently accepted 
a position as social worker at 
Frank and Seders was welcomed 
back.
Tho club is in* the second year 
of its life and is growing steadily 
in scope and interest. Tho mem­
bership includes laculty, alumni
and students who agree that the 
club stands for inspiration, good 
fellowship and mutual interest in 
departmental life, besides it is a 
strong link between tne graduates 
and the school and in turn in keep- 
tneir proiession.
The science students of M. M. D. 
held another mooting. The follow­
ing olncors were elected; President, 
Mildred Spencer; Vico President,
Lois McCombs; Sec.-Treas., Char­
lotte Tau, Social Chairman; Jean­
nette Palon, and chairman of tho
program committee, Gertrude Ba­
ton.
Tho club has invited members ol 
the science faculty, Dean Brood and
INDUSTRIES ALUMNI 
100%
Wo nro going strong, in I’nct at such a rapid pace that YOU had bettor prepare to mount and bo on your way to­wards a 100 por cent Association.
Wo are receiving daily an average of ten members so you see it is not tho impossible,
To those who are still by tho wayside, got out of tho rut, answer tho call and join an organization composed of your own men.
Show tho Alumni you are back of them by sending $2.00 to J. W. Batman, Secretary, Box 176, care C. I. T. This pays you up until June 30, 1921 and entitles you to the Tartan every week and the Alumnus bi-monthly.
Do some personal work. Get other Industries men to join.
************************** ***>{
IRON CITY ELECTRIC CO.
Baum and Mellwood 
Ail Kinds of Batteries 
¡¿Repaired and Recharged
BATTERY
Exi de”
SERVICE
jJjUMHMHMMMMMMUHMHUHUMMMHHHHj
SKIB0 INN
Remodeled and Enlarged
CLEAN, 
WHOLESOME,
* FOOD
| Served at best prices |
* CIGARS CANDY J
I********************»***-*
Dean Scales to dinner next Wed­
nesday evening.
A visit to one of the glass fac­
tories lias been planned. Also a 
committee has boon appointed to 
select a suitable emblem for a pin.
CONFERENCE AT ELMIRA
Helen Reed and Eleanor McCar- 
so*n left Wednesday night for El­
mira College, Elmira New York, to 
attend a conJerence of tho Wo­
mens Intercollegiate Association 
for Student Govornemont. Sessions 
were held at the college 011 Thurs­
day, Friday and Saturday. Elean.61 
McCarson, as Student Govt. Pres., 
was Senior Representative and Hel­
en Rood went as Junior Representa­
tive. The girls returned Sunday 
night and report a glorious time 
puis many new ideas.
The Glee Club met this week 
for the first time this session, anu 
everybody is all “pepped up” over 
prospects for the year. Air. Hawes, 
of tne Secretarial Department, win 
bo in charge of the season, and is 
going to make things interesting, 
lie has, in addition to great musi­
cal ability and experience, a “way" 
that makes bun a good leader.
The Club is larger tins year, and 
if there are any btray Altos around, 
come iu and nave a try out. You 11 
be appreciated.
PLEBES
Most of the J/iebes realize that 
they aren't the first and only class 
wno had to live under regulations. 
And most Plebes realize mat tiiey 
are leading the gay and care Iree 
life, as compared with what otiier 
classes have* done. However, some 
icw Plebes can't seem to grasp tne 
situation. Some have poor mem­
ories and good forgettenes, some
buck” lor sneer love of being 
stubborn.
Are you one, or are you t’other?
FORBES IIALL—FOOT BALL
Indoor football for Girls! There 
have been oodles of people (especi­
ally the Contrary Sex) who have 
laughed at “Girl’s Rules” in Bas­
ket Ball. Well, how does Girl's 
Rules in Football sound? It's a good 
game. Only one game has been play­
ed, and owing to tho fact that .sev­
eral of the star players were carried 
off the field, and the Rooters are all 
rooted out, there may never be an­
other.
Y. W. C. A.
The Y. W. C. A. will entertain at 
a party in honor of Dean . Scales, 
Tuesday afternoon, Nov. 23, at 4:3') 
o'clock. There will be a big surprise 
for all who will be fortunate enough 
to crowd into “Rec” Hall that after­
noon. All women of Tech are most 
welcome. Remember, the Y. W.
A. stands for the religious develop­
ment of Tech Women, hut it also 
stands for three other phases of the 
four-fold life—"Social," mental an 
physical. We assure you a real goo 
Thanksgiving time with Mrs. Scales.
Florence Lutz, the Annual Mem­
ber of Hie Y. W. C. A. was in Phila­
delphia this week end attending the 
Undergraduate Field Representative 
Conference. 'This conforonco brings 
together girls from school in Penn­
sylvania, Maryland, West Virginia, 
and Delaware, to discuss campus 
problems and determine just how the 
the religious education of the col­
leges in those states may be fur­
thered thru the efforts of the Y. W. 
C. A. There are eleven other confer­
ences of this nature being conducted 
throughout the United States.
iiiniiniu&nniiiRmiiiiiiiiBiiionnumiiniiifnBiuiDioiiniraB&BBmBnnninBaiiiPS
NOMINATIONS FOR OFFI­CERS TO THE VARSITY CLAN FOR 1921.
President:
Casey,Taylor,Waitte.
Vice Presidents:
(Three to be elected) H
Colmery,Clair,DeMuth,Ellerton,Halferty,Hatch.
Secretary and Treasurer: g
Ilirsch.Athletic Council
Representatives:
(Two to be elected) 
Engstrom,Finkle,Hatch,Overend.
UIIIIIIIIIIIIII!ilil!llllll!llll!!llll!!l!ll!l!IIII!IIM
DRAMA PLAS CRITICIZED
Aii audience, whether it be high 
or low brow, should find entertain­
ment in a program of plays 00n- 
tributed by Browning, Synge, and 
Chas. Rcade. Such proves the case 
with the bill given for the first 
time last Thursday in the Theatre 
of the Division of Arts. Here we 
have Browning’s psychological ro­
manticism, Synge’s sardonis tragi­
comedy, and Reade’s gamut of 
(stage) emotions. For Browning’s 
intricacies, Reade’s banalities; for 
for Synge’s physiological realism, 
Browning’s ecstatic optomism or 
Reade’s tinsel sentiment.
Good old Browning exhibits more 
sense of the stage than one thought 
he had. Pippa’s scenes are, to be 
sure, not even in a loose sense dra­
matic, but they give us Pippa, in«- 
genuous. ecstatic, adorable Pippa.
The loose logic.of “All’s right with 
the world” is pardonable in such a 
child. Miss Alering’s Pippa improves 
with our acquaintance and her ex­
perience. In appearance she is ex­
quisite, and her reading is intelli­
gent, varied and plausible. While 
her ecstacy in the first scene is too 
breathless, she has learned to make 
more of Mr. O’Brien's interesting 
settings for the famous songs. Of 
all, Mr. Reid's performance of the 
rather caddish Sebald is the steadi­
est: his diction has a fine clarity, 
and his movements have significance. 
He might with safety be a little 
less Anglo-Saxon in his pass'ion; Se­
bald is an Italian, not a New En- 
lander. Between Miss Lotz and Miss 
Dalzell as Ottima, the honors are 
nearly even. Each with her own 
means is decorative, tho Miss Dal­
zell consciously makes more of her 
lovely poses. Miss Lotz reads her 
average lines more intelligently; 
Miss Dalzell makes the big lines 
memorable. Miss Lotz stresses the 
physical, Miss Dalzell. the mental 
seductiveness of Ottima. Neither 
achieves naturalness.
Mr.* McConnell’s production of 
Synge's "The Shadow of the Glen,” 
it is hardly fair to judge from its 
first performance, it will surely im­
prove with use. It is thoughtfully 
staged, and th'e characters will work 
deeper into their parts. Grim and 
macabre as it is, it should be more 
amusing than on the first night, tho 
non-Celts find it difficult to extract 
glee from Iiiberian mud-slinging. 
Mr. Schaughency is much at home 
with Dan Burke; he uses his voice 
more sensibly than heretofore; he 
will elaborate his gestures, and play 
the brute more valorously. Mr. Col­
lins, agreeable as his Tramp is, 
might capture a touch of that gla­
mour which ever in Irish plays hangs 
about the way of the. far-wanderer. 
To match Dan Burke’s hardness. No- 
fa and Michal should be mean and 
covetous. Miss Dice is. almost too 
pleasant even when voicing the dis­
concerting realism of Synge’s wo­
mankind. Mr. Caldwell is sturdy and 
natural, tho too unmoved.
Stuff of the theatre woven on a 
familiar loom is Read's "Nance Old­
field,” already reviewed in these col­
umns. It is a bit of bravura which 
a more tired actress than Miss Mor­
rison might pause before attemp­
ting. That she carries it off so well 
is due to intelligence and hard 
work. The result has no little artis­
try and decided effectiveness. Mr. 
Paquin brings out a trifle roughly 
perhaps, most of the comedy in the 
countrified, simple, good-hearted Old­
worthy; Mr. Beyer catches the need­
ed note of romance as the young 
poet, and Miss Paxton is amusing, 
tho distressingly Virginian as the 
stage—and love-struck Susan..
KUPPENHEIMER rinfhoc CLOTHCRAFT tlUlHtö
Jageman & Spicket
The Men’s Store ol East End
6121 Penn Ave., - East End
WANT ANYTHING 
DEMONSTRATED?
Anyone who "has to be shown,” 
and who would like anything dem­
onstrated to them, see Eleanor Kerr 
or Ruth Quick. They can, of course, 
take up anything, but rather excell 
in he pie, cake and cookie line.
Their latest field has been at the 
Westinghouse Plant, and they admit 
that they are pretty good—so—any­
one who is from Missouri—look them 
up!
THE TURKISH ---- CIGARETTE
NOTED ACTOR VISITS DRAMA DEPARTMENT
Mr.I-Ioward Hampden and members 
of his company who were playing 
at "The Pitt" were guests of the 
•drama school last week. The de­
partment gave a special perform­
ance of "Pippa Passes." After the 
show a tea was held; the senior 
girls did the pouring. Mr. Hamp­
den was very interested in the work 
this school is doing and gave a ¡very 
interesting talk regarding the the­
atrical profession also some remarks 
about his career. He is a very in­
teresting character and a typical 
Shakespearian actor.
MBNORAH SOCIETY
"1'nlostino-—Present and Future, 
was the subject of an address de­
livered by Mordieai Grossman a vet­
eran of- the Jewish Legion in Pales­
tine, before the meeting held Tues­
day evening, Nov. 0, of the Monorah 
Society.
Tuesday. November 23, is the date 
of the next meeting of the Menorah 
Society at Rodef Shalom Temple.
Mrs. Fox was bragging one day about the large 
number of her cubs.
“How many cubs do you bring into the world at 
one time?” she asked the LIONESS.
“Only ONE,” replied the Lioness—“but its a 
LION.”
MURADS COST 20 CENTS for a BOX 
of 10—BUT THEY’RE MURADS!
MURADS would be lower priced if we left out 
all or part of the 100% Turkish tobaccos of the purest 
and best varieties grown—or if we substituted inferior 
grades of Turkish tobacco.
But they wouldn’t be MUR ADS—they’d only be 
Foxes!
“Judge for yourself—!”
