fTècorc/
The Tartai}
Published Weekly by Students of the
CARNEGIE TECHNICAL SCHOOLS
Volume 111 
Number 17JANUARY 27, 1909Two Dollars the Year 
Ten Cents the Copy

---------------------------------------------------

V
$Vi4*V4«V4*
*
4*4*4-4*4*4-4*4*4*4*4*4*4*
I4-4-4*4*4*
0\;}%0%o\0%o*0%0X0%0*0S0S0%0%0X0%0*0* 
£ 0
In the game with 
3,000 Students
olu omle1NbrT r1mlm Nlm wDml r1lmm 
r1wasNbt sratmbrs Nr hNlbmYnm Cme1 
p1w Nlm symbtnbY 4wbm* mDml* tN*u 
«w r1m* -bwp p1w *wa Nlm Nbt p1Nr 
*wa 1NDm rw smEES Ilm *wa rNE-nbY 
pnr1 r1m4 r1lwaY1 r1m NtDmlrnsnbY 
ewEa4bs wM C1m CNlrNbS Amrrml 4N-m 
NllNbYm4mbrs Mwl syNem nM *wa pNbr 
*wal s1Nlm wM Cme1 4wbm*u FM *wa 
pNbr rw UYmr nb r1m YN4mTR plnrm rw
tÎ Advertising Manager “The Tartan”
hNlbmYnm Cme1bneNE He1wwEs
gIVC>VoO01wV0VoO0Vg
§0VPOP
0 g 
g 0 V 0 
O1 
g 8 g
Hotel Schenley
.FCCHALB&T .Iu
ESTIMATES FURNISHED
FOR
h,IHH «F$$0BH
AND
«I$h0H
James Riley, Prop.
1
ri
g
g
§
ggIV
0V0
g
0
%0%O*0\O;*O\0SO*0*O*0*0%0*O\0*0%0.\0\0
PdPdPVPHP5PHPd2dPdPVPdPdPdP5PdPHPVP’
o s
P lumeuu1ueuNu ’ W
i Ck3G,C2«2 ATI 'TILJTJ KÆUAT P
0*O\0*0*0*0\0S0\0\0*0*0\0%0V0V0%0%0*
2
YPOPY
HEIMERT'S
WHERE ALL THE MEN GO
SPRING HATS 1909
Prices $4.00, $3.50, $3, $2.50, $2
Step into our store and try one on We will suit and please you if you are over 16 and under 100 years old.
New Spring Shirts $1.00 and $1.50 each.
Are you wearing one of our Gold Enameled Tech Buttons ?
Return $5.00 worth of our cash register receipts and get one (GRATIS)
g
O0
g
g
6/ROQUp/S t/ROQUppp 
OAKLAND HATTER AND HADERDASHER
Open evenings until 9 o’clock Saturday 
evening until 11 o’clock.
2VP60V0
O0VPOP
0
g
w
g
brT
gP1 
g
DANCING
A0&F$$0BH7
JmtbmstN*s8HNraltN*sT H .u ou
I«kI$h0«7
owbtN*s8glntN*sT 8 .u ou
.BFkIC0 ,0HH2$H7
0Dml* IMrmlbwwb Nbt 0DmbnbYu
Ai(^Dou6all;s
$mp W^PTPPP He1wwE8K twwls mNsr wM 
hlNnY wb gwlcms Hrlmmru hEmNbT ,av 
alnwas Nbt ymlMmerE* m|anyymtu
88C0IhH0BH8H
V
PI
Vjjj0V
80IIII
0
V
%0%0%0%0%0*0%0*0*0*0%0%0*0%0%0%0X0%0

---------------------------------------------------

®artan
VOL. Ill,-No. 17 PITTSBURG, PA., WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 27, 1909TEN CENTS
THE PROPOSED ATHLETIC FIELD
January 22, 1909.
Early in last December about forty-five hundred 
dollars ($4,500.00) was pledged toward preparing a 
new athletic field. In addition, about three thou­
sand dollars ($3,000.00) was verbally promised.
Up to date the amount pledged has not been in­
creased and the verbal promises have not material­
ized. Of the amount pledged, about one thousand 
dollars ($1,000.00) has been paid into the Treasury.
To get the field read in time for base-ball it was 
necessary to let the filling and grading contracts in 
December. In view of the promises and enthusiasm 
of the student body for this project, we believed we 
were safe in letting these contracts. Were we wise
to have faith in your promises? Are you going to 
quit with your task less than half finished?
Many students are making real sacrifices to help 
along the project, but the major portion of the stu­
dent body has done nothing but talk. Jm eNbbwr 
ylmyNlm Nb Ir1Emrne gnmEt pnr1 rNE-u
If we are to have a finished field by April 10th 
(the opening of the base-ball season), you must pay 
into the treasury, the sum of six thousand dollars 
($6,000.00) by March 1, 1909.
It is up to *wau
h1NlEms hu ,mmtsT
Treas. Athletic Association.
“A word to the wise—,” well, we all know the 
rest of that, so what’s the use of repeating it? Now, 
to begin with, the matter we are referring to is the 
following notice that is posted on the bulletin boards 
over the name of C. C. Leeds. It is justified and 
needed, and at the same time is about the hardest 
rap the student body ever had. There is no danger 
of the wrong party taking offense at the informa­
tion laid bare, for all it asks is, “Have you kept your 
word or not?
It is much easier to add up figures on plain white 
paper, than it is to do the same thing with green 
paper. There were a number of entertainments sug­
gested as being good ways of scraping together a
goodly sum of ducats, but beyond the noise made by 
the suggestion, they seem to have frazzled out. Why 
cannot the “White Friars” take time enough to get 
some skits together in the form of a vaudeville 
show, or something of a similar nature, and adver­
tise the thing well for the benefit of the Athletic 
Fund? Practice never hurt any one, and we under­
stand there is considerable new talent or green 
material, we believe they call it, in the field for con­
sideration. It might be a way of giving them a good 
opportunity of showing what they could do, before 
commencing on the new play.
The steam shovel seems to have finished its work, 
but KEEP THE OTHER WORK MOVING.

---------------------------------------------------

4THE TARTAN
HCu .0C0B IC CH0 &IC0u
St. Peter stood at the Golden Gate,
With a solemn mien and an air sedate,
When up to the top of the golden stair,
A man and a woman, ascending there,
Applied for admission. They came and stood 
Before St. Peter, so great and good,
In hopes the City of Peace to win,
And asked St. Peter to let them in.
The woman was tall and lank and thin,
With a scraggy beardlet about her cin;
The man was short and thick and stout,
His stomach was built so it rounded out;
His face was pleasant, and all the while 
He wore a kindly and genial smile.
The choirs in the distance the echoes woke,
The man kept still while the woman spoke.
“O, thou who guardest the gates,” said she,
“We two come hither beseeching thee 
To let us enter the heavenly land 
And play our harps with the angel band.
Of me, St. Peter, there is no doubt—
There is nothing from heaven to bar me out.
I have been to meeting three times a week 
And almost always I’d rise and speak.
“I’ve tola the sinners about the day 
When they’d repent of their evil way;
I’ve told my neighbors, I’ve told them all—
’Bout Adam and Eve and the primal fall.
I’ve shown them what they’d have to do,
If they’d pass in with the chosen few;
I’ve marked their path of duty clear,
Laid out the plan for their whole career.
“I’ve talked and talked to them loud and long,
For my lungs are good and my voice is strong.
So, good St. Peter, you’ll clearly see 
The gates of heaven are open for me.
But my old man, I regret to say,
Hasn’t walked in exactly the narrow way.
He smokes and he swears and grave faults he’s got, 
And I don’t know whether he’ll pass or not.
“He never would pray with an earnest vim,
Or go to revival or join in a hymn;
So I had to leave him in sorrow there 
While I, with the chosen, united in prayer.
He ate what the pantry chanced to afford,
While I, in my purity, sang to the Lord;
And if green cucumbers were all he got,
It’s a chance whether he merited them or not.
“But, O, St. Peter, I love him so,
To the pleasures of heaven please let him go.
I’ve done enough—a saint I’ve been—
Won’t that atone; can’t you let him in?
By my grim gospel, I know ’tis so,
That the unrepentant must fry below:
But isn’t there some way you can see 
That he may enter, who’s dear to me?
It’s a narrow gospel by which I pray,
But the chosen few expect to find some way 
Of coaxing or fooling or bribing you 
So that their relations can amble through.
“And say, St. Peter, it seems to me 
This gate isn’t kept as it ought to be.
You ought to stand right by the opening there,
And never sit down in that easy chair.
And say, ,St. Peter, my sight is dimmed,
But I don’t like the way your whiskers are trimmed. 
They’re cut too wide, and outward toss.
They’d look better narrow, cut straight across. 
Well, we must be going, our crowns to win,
So, open St. Peter, and we’ll pass in.”
St. Peter sat quiet and stroked his staff,
But in spite of his office he had to laugh.
Then said, with a fiery gleam in his eye:
“Who’s tending this gateway, you or I?”
Then 4ie arose in his stature tall 
And pressed a button upon the wall,
And said to an imp who came all aglow,
“Escort this woman to the regions below.”
The man stood still as a piece of stone,
Stood sadly, gloomily there alone.
A lifelong settled idea he had;
That his wife was good and he was bad.
He thought if the woman went down below 
That he would certainly have to go;
That if she went to the regions dim 
There wasn’t a ghost of a show for him.
Slowly he turned, by habit bent,
To follow wherever the woman went.
St. Peter standing on duty there,
Observed that the top of his head was bare.
He caller1 the gentleman back and said:
“Friend, how long have you been wed?”
“Thirty years” (with a weary sigh),
And then he thoughtfully added, “Why?”
St. Peter was silent, with head bent low;
He raised his head and scratched his crown.
Then, seeming a different thought to take,
Slowly, half to himself he spake;
“Thirty years with that woman there?
No wonder the man has got no hair;
Swearing is wicked; smoking’s no good;
He smoked and swore, I should think he would.
“Thirty years with that tongue so sharp?
O, Angel Gabriel, give him a harp—
A jeweled one with a golden string!
Good sir, pass in where the angels sing!
Gabriel gave him a seat alone—
One with a cushion, up near the throne;
Call up some angels to play their best;
L?t him enjoy the music and rest.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TA RTAN5
See that on the finest ambrosia he feeds;
He’s had about all the hell he needs,
It isn’t hardly the thing to do—
To roast him on earth and the future too.”
They gave him a harp with golden strings,
A glittering robe and a pair of wings;
And he said as he entered the realm of day:
“Well, this beats cucumbers anyway.”
And so the scriptures had come to pass,
The last shall be first, and the first shall be last.
—Anonymous.
I..,F0« «0HF&$u
The basket-ball team organized in the Applied De­
sign is getting into tip-top shape under the manage­
ment of Mr. Lamont, who has shown ability in this 
line the last week or so. Practice was indulged in 
Friday afternoon at the Duquesne Gardens. Near’y 
twenty-five candidates were on the floor. Later in 
the afternoon five of the candidates lined up against 
the ’Varsity. They were Mitchell, Rigamont, Critch- 
low, Moss and Keally.
The team will practice on Monday, Thursday and 
Friday of this week, and it is hoped that as many 
more candidates will be in line. The first game will 
probably take place first of next week. A captain has 
not yet been elected, but this will be done shortly.
«0h2BIC2BHu
The last judgment was made Monday. The pro­
gram read:
“A Cover for House and Garden.”
A magazine cover to be printed in three colors, in­
cluding the drawing. This design should include the 
words ‘ House and Garden, a Magazine devoted to 
Architecture, Gardens and Decoration.”
The drawing should be presented 10 inches wide 
by 14 inches high, the color in flat washes, and the 
character dignified and appropriate.
The design should be presented on the usual sheet 
19x25, including a margin of one inch to the left for 
binding. The paper may be of any sort or color and 
not included in the three colors mentioned above.” 
The following received mentions: L. Miller, Moss, 
Miss Thompson, Uhrbom, Withers, Byrne, Nies, 
Weishaupt.
0,0hCBFh JFBF$&8gFBHC Y0IBu
A lad by the name of Pochapin, ground some phos­
phorus to see what would happen. Below is the re­
sult: Isace, Potehapin, Phosphorus, Pestal, Pres­
sure, Explosion, Excitement, Doctor, Hearse, Funeral, 
Sadness, Insurance, Joy.
Why does Alexander come to school on Sunday?
Mr. William Lloyd Finkel paid our class a visit on 
Monday. Who yelled “Mob him?”
Let’s all go over to corner Craig and Forbes to 
see why Gillman likes their sodas. We all think 
there is a “woman in the case.”
Taggart is still a mathematical target. Poor old 
cat.
Votz—“Ain't this a great day for health gowns?”
Bowen—“Does electricity effect all the ‘cells’ of 
the body?”
Ewing—“According to that we must be walking 
‘jails’ ”
Silverman—“Heinz preserve us.”
Vance—“Did you get your composition on “What 
causes fog in Pittsburg?”
Mosellan—“I don’t know anything about it. I 
didn’t live here long enough.”
Mr. Courtney resembled a “mummy” in Hygiene.
I$ F$g0B0$h0u
“Pa,” said Bobbie, “kin I go a-flshin?’?”
“No, you can’t,” retorted the old gentleman from 
behind his newspaper.
Pause.
“Pa, kin I go in swimmin’?”
“I’ve told you no several times already.”
Pause.
“Say, ma, kin I go out and play with the hose?” 
“No, Bobbie; you’ll get yourself soaked,” replied 
his mother.
Pause.
“Ma, kin I go acrost to Willie Smith’s for a little 
while?”
“No, my son, you can’t. Willie Smith is not a fit 
companion for a boy like you.”
Pause.
“Pa, kin I cut the pictures out of the Sunday 
papers?”
“No, sirree, you can’t, I’m not going to have this 
house littered up with scraps of paper.”
Pause.
“Ma, kin I”—
“No, Bobbie; you can’t! Don’t make me have to 
tell you that again.”
Pause.
“Say, pa, is this a prohibition State?”—Ex.
AI$« I$« 2BhH0HCBIu
The Band and Orchestra have progressed to the 
point where to make the right kind of headway, a 
competent leader’s services were found necessary. 
Le Roy Decker, president of the band, announces 
the engaging of Mr. Steffin, of the Pittsburg Orches­
tra, as leader and director. With such a man at the 
head of the two organizations, rapid progress is 
certain.

---------------------------------------------------

6THE TARTAN
M. M. C. S.
Director Hamerschlag gave us a short talk Tues­
day morning on Edgar Allan Poe, the centennial of 
whose birth we celebrated this month. He said: 
“I did not come over this morning to take up your 
time with an address on Poe, for you probably know 
as much about him as I do. I only wish to show 
you how it concerns you to know his poetry.
“Biographers differ as to his birthplace, but we 
know he was born in 1809, and that his parents were 
an actor and an actress. He was adopted by a man 
named Allan, of Richmond, Va., who took him 
abroad. On his return to this country he entered 
the University of Virginia. Here he exhibited great 
physical prowess and great ability in mathematics, 
Latin and Greek, but was expelled for irregular at­
tendance. He then spent a year with Mr. Allan in 
Europe. At the end of that year he entered West 
Point and was again expelled for irregular conduct. 
By this time Mr. Allan had lost faith in him and left 
him without resources. This made it necessary for 
him to go to work at once. About this time one of 
the newspapers printed an offer of $100 for the best 
poem and the best short story, and both of these 
were won by Poe. This gave him his start, but he 
was still in the formative state, and these first pro- 
ductions of his are of course not examples of his 
genius. There followed a period of struggle with 
only two or three friends to aid and encourage him. 
The rest of the story is unimportant. We can’t 
judge a man by the trivial incidents of his life, so it 
doesn’t concern us to know which woman he loved 
early in life or which one later, or how he lived 
and how he died. The way to measure the true 
man is to read him. It is through his writings that 
we come to know his fine, sensitive nature, to feel 
that spirit, the South, that deep and tender affection 
that so much a part of the real man. He touched 
the hearts of men through his only medium of ex­
pression, and because of that he will be understood 
by people of all ages.
“Here is the lesson for us: In Poe’s day there were 
but three avenues of expression—art, literature, and 
music. Now there are hundreds. People have come 
to realize that the man who builds a bridge may be 
just as much of a poet as the man who writes an 
epic; that the man who invents a telephone is just 
as much of an artist as he who paints an ‘Angelus’— 
if only he does his work well and with the heart. It 
is your business to give to the world the best that is 
in you, and if you do not give expression to yourself 
in whatever medium you find, then you do not pay 
the debt you owe to the world in which you live.”
Miss Harding—“Don’t you know what ‘perquisite’ 
means? Well, if the Faculty of the M. M. C. got 
their lunch without paying for it, that would be a 
perquisite!”
Miss Turkle (speaking of Benjamin Franklin) — 
“I would have been sorry for the poor fellow!”
Campbell (to Junior Secretaríais)—“The Juniors 
are not affected—.” Hurrah for Peter!
Fb .wmrl*u
Miss M.—“Who was the Lucy of whom Words­
worth wrote so much?”
Miss F.—“Nobody knows. Some think she was 
an ideal of his.”
Miss B.—“Oh, I know—she was a race horse. It 
tells you so in one of his poems.”
Miss F. (reading, later in the lesson) —
“Thus Nature spake—the work was done— 
How soon my Lucy’s race was run!”
Miss B.—“There, I told you she was a race horse!”
Fb 0ewbw4nesu
Miss Fisher (to Miss Shuman)—“If you had a son, 
then, who was a chump and wouldn't take advan- 
age of an education, you wouldn’t waste a Harvard 
education on him, would you?”
Miss Shuman—“No, certainly not.”
Miss Fisher—“Just what would you do with him?” 
Miss Johns—“Send him to TECH.”
The girls will be glad to know that Miss Leschorn 
is improving, and that she will soon be back at 
school ready for work.
Little drops of water,
Little flakes of snow,
Cause a lot of cussing 
In this world below.
—From the Man with the Snow Shovel.
C1m CNEm wM N omy1nsrw QanEEu
It was one of those gloomy days when not a single 
bright spot is visible in the out-of-door world. Even 
the schoolgirl’s shining morning face was enveloped 
in a cloud of Jog. But the passengers on a certain 
Forbes street car were quite unconscious of the dis­
agreeable state of the weather and the general indi­
cation of a dreary day. An elderly gentleman and 
a feather were instrumental in dispelling the gloom 
for at least thirty or forty persons.
The man was white-haired and merry-eyed, and 
evidently his heart had not grown old with his 
years, for it still bubbled over with a boyish spirit of 
mischief.
The feather—yes, of course, it was in a fair maid­
en’s long,—oh, very long, and soft, and ticklish, with 
that provoking habit of poking itself into the faces 
of passengers and making them long to bite a few 
inches of it off.
Well, when the hero of our story entered the car 
there was but one vacant seat—next the feathered 
side of the hat. Quietly he settled himself and

---------------------------------------------------

THETA RTAN7
opened his newspaper. Just then the maiden turned 
her head to speak to her other neighbor, and the 
passengers opposite saw the old man raise his hand 
and brush his ear. In a few seconds he repeated 
the gesture and a puzzled look overspread his face. 
The third time he looked around questioningly and 
discovered the tickler. He made a wry face which 
was too much for those near and a very broad smile 
went around. He resumed his reading, but at the 
end of every third line or so his eyes were screwed 
up into two interrogation points and rolled up at that 
mischievous feather. He pulled down his hat and 
turned up his coat collar, but all to no purpose. The 
tickler was as persistent and as irresistible as a 
mosquito on a summer morning. But the twinkling 
eyes and shaking shoulders of the victim proved that 
he was more amused than annoyed. Every one was 
laughing immoderately by this time, the old man 
heartiest of all. The owner of the feather was bliss­
fully unconscious of the merriment she was creating 
and every motion of her head increased the fun. 
By and by the innocent cause of it all discovered the 
real circumstances and her efforts to keep the feather 
away from the man’s ear only added to the ridicu­
lousness of the situation. The whole car was con­
vulsed with laughter and none seemed to be enjoying 
it so much as the victim. Indeed it had not been 
funny except for his good-natured acceptance of the 
situation and his comical pretense at avoiding his 
tormentor. ’Twas funniest of all when he left the 
car with a mirth-provoking farewell to the offending 
bit of millinery. A fresh victim arrived at once, but 
before the tickler had time to get busy, the conduc­
tor called “Woodlawn,” and rang down the curtain 
on the little comedy. Surely a good laugh is the 
best tonic, and a fine thing with which to begin the 
day.
The date of the Junior Prom has been changed 
from Feb. 23d to Feb. 12th. The committee in 
(charge is composed of the following girls: Miss
Ruth Doran, Chairman; Miss Jane O’Mara, Miss 
Helen Shepherd, Miss Rhea Stewart, Miss Helen 
Oursler, Miss Lottie Schafner, Miss Olive Freese, 
Miss Madeline Moore, Miss Frances Kempel, Miss 
Elizabeth Kelly, Mrs. John Martin, Miss Frances 
Rayburn
I &mbrEm Bm4nbtml rw C1msm J1w Ilm Iyr rw gwlYmru
Have you “browsed” a little in Browning? Have 
you read Phelp’s “Beginning of the Romantic Move­
ment?” Have you devoured “Aes Triplex” with 
avidity? Have you decided yet which of the follow­
ing authors you will peruse? Addison, ¡Steele, De 
Quincey, Swift, Carlyle, Dowell, Holmes, or Steven­
son? If you have done none of these things flee to 
the Library and get busy, for the time draws nigh 
and the ax may fall on YOU.
I EVERY §
| TECHNICAL MAN 1
ju needs one of the following W
(ft Engineering Journals: Q
* 0,0hCBFhI, J2B,« jjj
C> The foremost authority of the world on all )»
u) branches of electrical work. M
m Weekly Edition, $3.00. Monthly Edition, $1.00 O
W CH0 0$&F$00BF$& B0h2B«
® The most valuable paper published for jn
((( the civil and mechanical engineer. o
Published Weekly—$3.00 a Year uj
((( 0,0hCBFh BIF,JIY J2LB$I, 2
The undisputed authority on the construc- 0
W, tion, operation and management of city U)
% and inter-urban railways. ju
iU Published Weekly—$3.00 a Year &
HymenNE BNrms rw Hratmbrs 
HN4yEm hwynms wb Bm|amsr
> oe&BIJ .LA,FHHF$& h2u
w 239 Jmsr 39 Hrlmmr - - - $mp Ywl- ja
JL$F2B .B2ou
The annual Junior Prom of the Schools of Applied 
Science and Applied Design has been announced for 
Feb. 22, and will be given at the Rittenhouse. The 
committee in charge have arranged the dances and
willpost the list of the remainder at a later date.
1.Two Step................
3.Waltz .......................
4.Two Step.................
5.Schottish.................... .Sweetest Story Ever Told
6.Two Step.................
7.Waltz .......................
8.Two Step.................
9.Waltz.........................
10.Two Step.................
11.
. .When You First Kiss the Last Girl You Love
12.Two Step.................
13.Waltz .......................
14.Two Step ...............
15.Supper Waltz........
16.Boston Balero
17.Waltz.........................
# sfc # s»« * H? Hî ÿ
Father—Well, Willie, how did the ice cream taste? 30. Waltz............................
Willie—It didn’t taste at all; I did that. First Extra Barn Dance.
Auld Lang Syne

---------------------------------------------------

8THE TARTAN
THE TARTAN
.acEns1mt Jmm-E* «alnbY r1m He1wwE YmNl c* Hra­
tmbrs wM hNlbmYnm Cme1bneNE He1wwEsT .nrrscalYT .Nu
Entered at the Pittsburgh post office as second class matter
F. I. Gaston, ’09—Editor-in-Chief 
Lowell W. Nicols, ’10—Associate Editor 
J. H. Taxis, ’10, Night—Associate Editor 
Bess E. Sheets, M. M. C. S.—Associate Editor 
H. J. McCorkle, ’11—Business Manager
Hacselnyrnwb BNrms
Yearly ............................................................. $2.00
Single Copy ................................................10 Cents
For Advertising Rates, address the Business Manager, care 
Carnegie Technical Schools.
It is generally conceded that a law that is not or 
cannot be enforced, does more harm by its very ex­
istence in the inactive state, than could possibly be 
the case with no law to pretend to cover the case at 
all. It stands to reason from the fact that a law 
of the “dead but not buried” variety gives ground 
for the disobedience or utter neglect of any other 
law that may be in existence. The rule of the ma­
jority is such a vital American principle, that it is 
impossible to conduct any sort of organized govern­
ment without the strictest adherence to that prin­
ciple. In city, state, and national government, pun­
ishment is imposed for violations of the will of the 
majority; no sane mind can question the reasons why 
this is necessary. Now to hit the nail we are driv­
ing at the head.
Class government is based on exactly the same 
principles as National government; from this one 
would ordinarily suppose that the same fundamen­
tals underlying the proper working out of the Na­
tional government would apply to the class govern­
ment. When a class decides to tax each member 
a certain definite sum for a definite purpose, and it is 
decided by a majority vote of the class in a meeting 
that has been announced to all interested some time 
before, it would seem that all that was necessary 
to do in addition, was to state when and to whom the 
money was to be paid. We believe we are safe in 
saying that in the present Sophomore, Junior, and 
Senior classes, no general collection has ever been 
made for any purpose, but what certain members 
flatly and positively refused to pay the amount, how­
ever small it may have been. These cases nearly 
always involve the same men. They have been in­
vestigated far enough to determine absolutely that
it was not a case of couldn’t pay, but plain 
WOULDN'T. No effort has ever been made, as far 
as we remember, to force an explanation or settle­
ment; they have been allowed to hang on, while an­
other assessment was made of the rest of the bunch 
to make up the difference. This is not right, and 
anyone with any of the proper spirit, knows it. 
If a man does not wish to take part in any of the 
class activities, it is clearly his business to say so, 
and not to vote with the rest for something, and 
then balk when the time for paying the bill comes 
around, knowing that nothing will be done to make 
him stick to his word, and that the rest are soft 
enough to pay his share.
When 2,000 students from all parts of the globe get 
together, every class and previous condition of ser­
vitude is sure of being represented. Such is the 
case here, so we cannot help but have our syco­
phants along with the other desirable varieties. It 
seems to be up to the classes as a whole or individ­
ually to protect themselves from the chronic dead 
beat.
Has the interest in basket-ball entirely subsided 
since we lost a game or two? If not, why is it we 
don’t hear any talk of supporting the team? Let us 
get together and root at the few remaining times we 
have as the team is certainly deserving of our best 
support. So everybody come out next Tuesday night 
for the game with Grove City.
The Class of 1912 Night seems to have two things 
pretty well developed: the social instinct and enter­
prise witness their announcement of a smoker to be 
given on the 11th of next month. It would seem that 
this would be a capital chance for the day men to get 
acquainted with a goodly portion of the night school 
and one that has always given all the school teams 
its best support.
JHFC0 gBFIBHu
The White Friars announce a trial for the snbY­
nbY e1wlas in the Assembly Hall Wednesday evening 
at 7.30. An opportunity will be given men who have 
already been out to the dancing trials or to any new 
men who have not been out to any of the trials. As 
this is positively the last of the chorus trials, a large 
attendance is expected.

---------------------------------------------------

THETA RT AN9
THE OAKLAND SAWINGS AND TRUST COMPANY
TRIES TO TREAT ITS PATRONS JUST A LITTLE BETTER THAN ANY OTHER BANK 
CAPITAL $200,000.00 SURPLUS $126,000.00
OFFICERS :
JAS. J. FLANNERY, - - - President
JAMES J. BOOTH, - - - Vice PresidentJOHN G. PEW, - - 2nd V. Pres, and Sec.C. B. AYEESWORTH, .... Treasurer
PLEBE CLASS §
Henderson is looking up points in favor of local 
option. Do our senses deceive us?
Some barbers might do well to install a forced 
draft system in their shops. It would save time and 
furnish a few thrills for the patrons.
Prof. Trinks—“Quite some time.”
Bigelow seems to be a popular man about five 
minutes past the hour.
Prof. Hornbostel said that the Huchy-Kuchy dance 
is a remnant of the Moorish civilization. It has 
been popular for a long time, to say the least in its 
favor.
Mr. Lightcap—“Tiiis is the correct answer; how 
many got it?”
Stone—“I got it—I would have gotten it if I had 
not made a mistake.”
hENss ommrnbYu
after it is put in condition. Mr. Crawford was elect­
ed to the office of Sergeant-at-Arms to help suppress 
any disorder that might arise in the aforesaid smok­
ing room.
A Plebe who voluntarily indulged in a breech of 
etiquette, said: “It might be bad form, but it is good 
taste.” He was making coffee soup at the Commons.
Keim—“What is the difference between Spielburg 
and $0.52?”
Rex—“Give it up.”
Keim—“Twenty-six cents.”
&,00 I$« oI$«2,F$ h2$h0BCu
The following motions were passed:
Acceptance of the athletic constitution.
That the Plebes voluntarily refrain from using to­
bacco in school buildings, except the smoking room,
The Glee and Mandolin Clubs are rapidly getting 
into shape for the big concert at Carnegie Music 
Hall, glntN*T gmclaNl* 19r1u All indications point to 
the best concert ever given by these clubs, as all the 
men are thoroughly familiar with their parts and 
are letting no chance go by to give the best possible 
result.
One week before the Pittsburg concert (Lincoln’s 
Birthday, Feb. 12) the clubs play in the Nixon thea­
ter, Tarentum, as a benefit for the Tarentum High 
School Athletic Association. This will be an excel­
lent opportunity for the fellows to get used to public 
appearance.
The financial arrangements for the annual concert 
at Carnegie Hall are nearly all completed and all 
provisions have been made for a record crowd in at­
tendance. Every Tech man should hold the bnbm­
rmmbr1 for this occasion.
I gIo2LH $0J Y2BK HICC0B oIK0H
C0hH-$ 0&F 0
Proper headwear for all occasions, 
Silk and Opera, Derbies, soft hats and 
caps. The best kinds of both foreign 
and domestic manufacture. Write for 
our style book.
C0hH-o2$C
0tto Getting
gnMr1 Nbt J*Enm HmDmbr1 Nbt H4nr1MnmEt

---------------------------------------------------

F2THE TARTAN
P. LUDEBUEHL & SON,.0$$ I$« gBI$KHC2J$ Ik0HuT 0u 0u
0HCIA,FHH0« F$ 1863
“ OUR SHOES ARE ALL LEATHER ” MADE BY THE MOST FAMOUS MANUFACTURERS BOTH EAST AND WEST 
W6 ^PT W^uH2T W^uPPT WKuPPT W3u^PT W3uPP
Vol um oee m1N HJ0,, HH2« HH20H Vu HKuPP ube rVTN
--------SEE OUR FOUR SHOW WINDOWS--------
| NINETEEN-TWELVE |
During the recent fall of the “beautiful” a number 
of rowdies belonging to some of the night classes 
found a cruel delight in unmercifully bombarding 
the fair maidens of the Maggie Murphy Cooking 
School. Since there has been no voice heard in pro­
test and the malefactors have gone unrebuked each 
member of our class should consider it his duty to 
prevent such occurrences in the future wherever 
they may come to his attention. The honor of the 
school demands that we change our attitude of 
innocuous desuetude to one of aggressive rectitude.
That smoker is evidently going to be a grand affair. 
For proof, listen to this: —
Last Sunday afternoon the Glee Club was busily 
engaged in practicing the songs to be rendered on 
this occasion. After the services were over the 
editor encountered Messrs. Galley and McCreery, 
who proceeded to join him in boarding a Homestead 
car. After the usual preliminaries each finally se­
cured a strap. The editor then asked for particulars 
of the program and received the information that 
one of the selections is entitled, “Looking Back­
ward.” Mr. McCreery volunteered that this ought 
to be sung with the performers looking backward.
Of course, if McCreery said so, every one in the 
car heard it. Among those interested was a dashing 
female (aetat 40+), who addressed Gallery in this 
wise:—“When I was on the stage, we girls once gave 
a song which was announced to be sung forward and 
backward. Well, there was about forty of us girls, 
and we sang it through facing the audience. And 
then, don’t you know, we made a quick turn round 
and sang the song backwards to the audience. And, 
don’t you know, it was the funniest thing the way 
that audience applauded. I’m telling you this for 
what it’s worth, you see; it’s not patented, copy­
righted or trade-marked. Say, does this car go to 
McKeesport? When will we get there? Etc., etc.”
Well you would never suspect what a mine of in­
formation that harmless looking fellow Gallery is. 
So if you see some of this stunt during the perform­
ance, blame it on Galley.
The tickets for the smoker are now on hand and 
may be had from any member of the Social Com­
mittee, Messrs. Helm, Roberts, Griffiths, or Kearn.
Wer aber gerue lernet,
Deni is kein weg zu feru,
Im Winter, wie im Fruehling 
Geh ich zur schule gern.
How about it Hindman? Have you forgotten your 
one-time motto? '
We would request Mr. Erwin to inform the class 
whether the equation of the curve of his hirsute 
adornment is of the second, or third degree.
Query—Why does McCreery always exhibit his 
socks during lectures on electricity?
Since the last writing, Mr. Laboon has suddenly 
acquired the opinion that the work of the Athletic 
Committee will be too much for his broad shoulders 
and will attempt to share with Messrs. Weber, Swin- 
bank, Weyman, Jackson and Surenda.--------------
AIHK0C-AI,,u
The school will soon have another chance to see 
the basket-ball team in action—on next Tuesday 
evening against Grove City. Everybody knows what 
the foot-ball team did against Grove City; now come 
out everybody and see the basket-ball team duplicate 
the feat.
Previous to this game the team plays Waynesburg 
on their home floor and on the Saturday following 
Geneva at Geneva and then it departs to new fields 
taking an eastern trip and playing Juniata, Lehigh 
and Bucknell on the 11th, 12th and 13th, respectively.
All the boys have been improving greatly since 
the last game; Harrison and Leety showing especially 
good form. Casey has been making great improve­
ments in his playing and is liable to make it quite 
uncomfortable for Dolin yet.
As Diogenes came slowly round the corner he 
slipped on a banana peeling, and crashed to the 
ground. His lantern was smashed and a hoop was 
broken off his tub. “Shucks,” he exploded, “I sup­
pose that ends my hopes of getting into the fratern­
ity.” Statistics show us that he spent the greater 
part of his life in trying to join this Frat, and he 
succeeded in not getting in for he died before his 
life was ended and the initiation was not complete.
A clear solution of shellac in alcohol, with an addi­
tion of picric acid and 1 per cent, of boracic acid, 
makes a gold varnish that produces a fine hard sur­
face and brilliant finish on metals.—Scientific Amer­
ican.

---------------------------------------------------

THETA RTANnE
THE CHEMICAL ENGINEER AND OUR NA­
TIONAL FIRE LOSS.
BY WILLIAM M. BOOTH, M.S.
(Continued from Issue of Jan. 6.)
Tarti}r17I
The population of every town includes men who are 
constantly experimenting; now with fireworks, next 
with explosives, gas engines and a thousand other things 
known to themselves only. Often very ignorant, they 
perform these experiments in the kitchens of their 
own homes, office buildings and boarding house rooms 
until a fire results, sometimes killing the man who start­
ed it and nobody knows what happened and why the 
fire or explosion was caused- When carried on in man­
ufacturing concerns or office buildings such experiments 
are very dangerous and may cause great loss. I under­
stand that some contractors thaw dynamite on their 
kitchen ranges before going to the day’s work in cold 
weather.
Wherever gas is used explosions and fires may result. 
The usual procedure is to light a match and so locate 
the leak when any one familiar with this material knows 
that a strong odor of gas is evidence of danger and 
that extreme precaution should be exercised. Gas leaks 
into subways and conduits and accumulates until fired 
by a stray lighted match or an electric spark. Cooks 
unfamiliar with gas ranges often “blow out” the gas 
and I have known several hundred feet of gas to escape 
into a room in this way in the course of half a day. 
If there is no fire or lighted flame in the room no dis­
aster follows, but if the kitchen range or a lighted gas 
jet is present a severe explosion may result. It is quite 
common for inexperienced people unfamiliar with the 
laws of combustion to light a gas oven with a match 
through the small opening in the side of the stove. 
If the latter is filled with gas the back of the stove may 
be sprung or blown off. Where natural gas is used in 
furnaces it is not uncommon for the cook or servant in 
charge of the cellar to fill the fire box with gas, after­
ward lighting this, with an explosion. Many house­
wives clean gloves or other articles, using gasoline or 
ether in the kitchen, forgetting that this liquid evapor­
ates, almost immediately extending to all parts of the 
room, and that the vapor is very explosive. Carbon 
bisulphide is sometimes used for this purpose, but its 
use should be absolutely prohibited on account of its 
low kindling point. Hundreds of cases of fire explosion 
and death have resulted from the use of chemicals in 
kitchens and homes. In dwelling houses curtains are 
sometimes blown against gas jets that have been lighted 
during the evening. Gasoline and kerosene, as is well 
known, flow on the top of water and may find their way 
for blocks until the igniting material appears. Electric 
wires cross and rub until the current is allowed to pass 
at this point and the highly carbonaceous and tarry cov­
ering is distilled, producing an inflammable gas with 
explosion and perhaps a fire. Naphtha is now exten­
sively used for a variety of purposes and is held re- 
(Continued on page 14.)
^rve“Be sir" Store
THE BRIGHT SPOT 
Cor. Forbes and Atwood Sts.
HHFBC
^9e
worth $1.00 
and more
HI,0
W1u19
worth $1.50 
and $2.00
C Amsr ANlYNnbs 0Dml 2MMmlmtu
k «wb’r onss r1m h1Nbemu §
a\oso*0\osososoNoso\a%0N0\o*»*o*0\0x
»
HAND TURNED
COLLARSg I
§
STEVENSON AND FORBES STREETS
P. & A. Phone 148 Maing Bell Phone 2943 Grant
I BRACE BROS.
1 LAUNDERERS
DYERS, CLEANERS
$
I Pittsburg, Pa.
Both ’Phones Wilkins 23
W
THEOH
HALLER’S
AKHKEHLN
LD SWIE 
TWKALG 
LRRLAET
UCMP RYrbts Tt.

---------------------------------------------------

12THE TARTAN
Fraternity Pins, Class Pins, Badges, Prize Cups, Fine Tools
HEEREN BROS.&CO. MANUFACTURING JEWELERS and SILVERSMITHS
HEEREN BUILDING, PENN AVE. AND EIGHTH ST.
Jm Nlm r1m oN-mls wM r1m hNlbmYnm Cme1 He1wwE .nbs
PERTINENT
AND
IMPERTINENT
1909 is M.C.M.I.X., in Roman characters, seems 
something like M.M.C.S., doesn’t it?
What has become of the Soph Electricals? When 
last seen they were going toward the new building.
A Plebe called strenously for Coca-Cola at the 
commons the other day. Never fear, “One Plebe 
does not make summer.”
The differential of infinity, is affinity. For proof, 
look at Bovschneck and Bickley.
The Soph Civils have the only known specimen of 
“The Eternal Show Me.” It is on exhibition at Room 
543, most any afternoon.
“A Webster in the Senate,” a “Tillman on the 
Stand,” a “Naismith in Class Meeting.”
Who said “Constitution?”
Joe Roura has returned from an extended Xmas 
trip; everyone is glad to see him back.
One of the Soph ex-presidents is thinking of start­
ing an all schools dancing academy, only old heads 
admitted.
The Irish bull can often be traced to the posses­
sors of non-Celtic names—witness the latest from the 
lips of Dr. Fernekes—“To make a small hole you will 
have to make it pretty large.”
Not so long since we noticed a local dealer’s ad— 
“Our oysters are healthy.” ¡Strange we thought they 
were already dead.
Ewing a former Franklin and Marshall besket-ball 
star assists in the coaching of our team occasionally. 
He played there during Dr. Schaeffer’s time.
Question in M. M. C. S. English—Define the word 
“Crusade.”
Answer—“Crusade” is a kind of embroidery done 
with a crusade needle.
It isn’t everyone that can afford a dress suit and 
the number who can afford to teach in one constitute 
a very small minority. But wouldn’t it be well to 
state when wearing one whether it is put on for 
vthe future or left on on account of lack'of time to 
change?
Did politics cause all the black eyes in evidence 
around school Monday, or was it something else?
The Glee Club can use several more first tenors 
to good advantage.
When Methuselah began to get bald at the age of 
550, he was greatly alarmed, lest he should become 
old prematurely. In making his first call upon his 
sweetheart, he stayed two weeks, and the parents 
of the girl had to send him home for they didn’t 
want him there for breakfast. It took him a month 
to blunt out his hasty proposal, but she had presence 
of mind to exclaim, “This is so sudden.” In the 
short space of fifteen years after this, they were 
married, the ceremony being simple and lasting 
but one month.
“Birds mit von fedder flock py demselves.”
If you wish a subscription to any engineering pub= 
lication it can be gotten through “The 
Tartan” at student rates.

---------------------------------------------------

The T $ 4T $*
NINETEEN THIRTEEN
Tech’s is a cosmopolitan place—especially ’13 night. 
They come from all directions. There is Raymond 
from Iowa, Ericson from Wisconsin, Peabody from 
Oklahoma, and Wewman from Germany. Wewman 
is an original chap, always afflicted with bright ideas. 
In Chemistry class, Mr. Schaeffer was observing— 
“And all acids have a sour taste,”—and Wewman, 
thinking of what happens to his German countrymen 
in Allegheny on dark days, began to glow with one 
of his flashes of intellect, beamed on the class and 
observed, “And most dire results comes from testing 
acids.”
“Yes,” replied Mr. Schaeffer thoughtfully, “it’s 
much better to let some one else do it.”
We’re losing our good friend Ramsey on Wednes­
day. He’s going out to the state of Washington. 
The state will probably tip up when he crosses the 
edge of it. If not now, it will later, and then we’ll 
point with pride to his success and say, “Yes, sir, 
Ramsey belonged to the fine old Class of ’13.”
Taggart, he of the slow shadowy smile, has re­
signed from the Ancient and Honorable Order of the 
;Sons of Rest, started back to work, and resumed 
hitting the pipe,—not the rank, foul-smelling mere- 
sham you usually see leading him through the spa­
cious halls of learning over at Tech—but the gen­
uine old-fashioned kind they make cinches of. Who’d 
ha’ thought it of Taggart?
Brinley Richards is going around of late with an 
appearance of covert activity. What’s up, Sociable 
Brinley?
Ho2K0Bu
The Class of 1912 Night wishes it known that on 
the evening of the 11th of February there will be 
given a smoker under their auspices for the benefit 
of the Athletic Fund. The tickets will be sold 
for the insignificant sum of 25 cents so everyone who 
has no pressing engagement for that evening should 
be present. The Glee Club will assist and there will 
be stunts well worth seeing which the committee do 
not wish to announce until the evening of the per­
formance. For any further information see the com­
mittee consisting of Messrs. Griffith, Helm, Roberts 
and Kearns.
jEj F N4 r1m wbE* tl* eEmNbml nb 2N-ENbt r1Nr 
•Ml twms 1ns wpb pwl-u F YaNlNbrmm *wa sNrnsMNe- 
Y! rnwbu Hmm HHLoI$ Nr 3911 gwlcms Hrlmmru
i Hns easrw4mls Nlm yEmNsmtu
2V2V«VPK<VPVPVPKD2VhVPVPVPVPVPVPV<7‘VP<V
k2VdPVHPVd2VXPV$2VdPVH2VXPVVPV5PV5PV
*
SC HEN LEY FARMS %
gFgCH Ik0u A0,,0gF 0,« Ik0u V
gF$0 B0HF«0$h0 .B2.0BCY
For prices and terms apply*
B22o 1K11 gIBo0BH AI$K ALF,«F$&*VXPVXPVXPVXPVXPVXPVXPVXPVXPVXPVXPVXP
V J0,, .B0HH0« FH J0,, «B0HH0«
| Liberty Cleaning & Pressing Co.
0 3P1 Hwar1 hlNnY Hrlmmr
0*04<>4<>*0*<:>*0*0^:>*<:i*04<*0*0*0*0*o*o+
g2B 0X.0BCH80$&F$00BHT IBhHFC0hCHT 
«BIL&HCHo0$ 8 0X.0BCH 2B HCL«0$CH
Should get acquainted with the resources of supply 
for all Drawing and Artists’ Materials offered 
by this houseKurtz, Langbein & Swartz
6P6 Jwwt HruT 6r1 IDmu
0^4H3*H>I^^*0*0*!<^*0*0*0*0*0*0*0*04*
s ®V owbwYlN4 He1wwE HrNrnwbml*T YwEt wl nb Nb* £
£’ ewEwlT eNb cm 1Nt Mlw4 onre1mEET Hwy1u onbnbYT k
* *0 wl Jw1bswbT Hwy1u 0EmerlneNET Mwl ^Pe yml |anlmu ’
PXPXPXPXPXPXPXPXPXPXPXP$PXPXPXPXPXPX
8*P
?P80
.HF,,F.H i oI$$F$& 
HCICF2$0BH
MAGAZINES POST CARDS
33P2 gwlcms Hrlmmr
CIGARS TOBACCO
»XPXPXPXPXPXPXPXPXPXPXPXPXPXPXPXPXPXP
PXPXPXPXPXPXPXPXPXPXPXPXPXPXPXPXPXPX
$
0R. W. MEDICK
hH2Fh0 H2o0 «B0HH0« 
.2L,CBY
o0ICH I$«
Both Phones38PK gwlcms HrlmmrP*0 KXPXPXPXPXPXPXPXPXPXPXPXPXPXPXPXPXPX2
PXPXP-VPXPXPXPXPXPXPXPXPdPXPXPXPXPXPX
1 MURDOCH-KERR CO. t
O .BF$C0BH I$« .LA,FHH0BH
’ I4yEm gNenEnrnms ,NlYm 0vymlnmbem r0 HNrnsMNerwl* HmlDnem H
O HCBIJA0BBY I$« hH0BBY JIYH P0 *XPXPXPXPXPXPXPXPXPXPXPXPXPXPXPXPXPXP

---------------------------------------------------

1KTHE TARTAN
C0hH A2YH CIK0 $2CFh0! 
$FgCY H0IkY CI$ HH20H WKuPP I$« W^uPP
6027 .mbb STOEBENER’S
6222 Frankstown EAST END
THE CHEMICAL ENGINEER AND OUR NA­
TIONAL FIRE LOSS.
(Continued from page 00\; 
sponsible for many fires and explosions, usually in the 
hands of ignorant people. Professor Gill, of the Mas­
sachusetts Institute of Technology, shows with great 
definiteness that naptha vapor with air is not ignited by 
a lighted cigar or glowing coals and that carbon disul­
phide vapor is ignited at a temperature below the glow­
ing point of either, making this one of the most dan­
gerous fire risks that can be imagined. Tin and glass 
articles are often so placed as to reflect and refract rays 
of light. Milk cans at farm houses and glass articles 
in show windows are thus responsible for serious fires.
The chemist is familiar with fires from the time he 
enters the laboratory and usually has the courage to 
fight them until extinguished. The reverse condensers 
with volatile material are often left for hours for fat 
extraction. A crack in the flask, a “boil over” is suffi­
cient to start a fire. Young students in the laobratory 
often set their clothing afire. Fancy collars have been 
burned while worn by women students, and coats have 
been burned until the man inside was uncomfortable. 
The transparency of the Bunsen flame is largely re­
sponsible for many such accidents. The director of a 
chemical laboratory must insist that the janitor make a 
thorough investigation after dark whenever students 
have been employed. The life of the laboratory assist­
ant may be made miserable by careless individuals and 
the fire risk of a student laboratory must be considered 
very great. Lockers are often left with heated materials 
smouldering over night, especially sticks of charcoal and 
explosive solvents are set free in the air of the* room, 
while sodium and phosphorus are left on the desks or 
poured into the sinks in quantities sufficient, if ignited, 
to cause complete destruction of the building. Chemi­
cals, inflammable materials and explosives have their 
proper place and important use. Owing to increased 
insurance rates on building carrying any or all of these, 
they are often labeled as some harmless material. To 
protect the insurance companies and the public, wilful 
misrepresentation regarding dangerous fire risks should 
be punished by heavy fines or imprisonment. In the 
hands of those who regularly use combustible chemicals 
these are usually harmless. When, however, ignorant 
men or women handle naptha, benzine, ether or phos­
phorus, disastrous fires maj' result.
Spontaneous Combustion.
Many mysterious fires are probably started by spon­
taneous combustion. If the kindling point of a material 
is reached and sufficient oxygen is present, fire may re­
sult. Linseed oil in contact with waste rapidly raises 
the temperature of the mass and has been the cause of
SI PE’S JAPAN OIL
Superior to Linseed Oil for all kinds of Painting
JIo0H Au Hj.0 i h2u
$wlr1 HntmT .nrrscalYT .Nu
&22« CHF$&H C2 0IC
at the Pure Food Stores of
GEO, K, STEVENSON £ CO.
Sixth Avenue Higland and Center 
Down Town East End
8 TECH BARBER SHOP *D « &W ‘ JH0B0 CH0 AL$hH &20HR «
^ And where you can always get first-class work. £ 
g H. F. Va n Curen, Proprietor, ^
P hBIF& I$« g2BA0H &w> 00X0X0S0X0X0X0%0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0%0X'0X
p W. S. BROWN I
% 523 Wood St., Pittsburg
* GUNS, CUTLERY, ATHLETIC GOODS, * 
o OF ALL KINDS. A COMPLETE LINE 0 % OF ICE AND ROLLER SKATES. J 
*0\40A*0\4<»\-k>%*0\*0\*0%*0\*o\*0\*0x
Ö
ARTISTS MATERIAL
OF EVERY DESCRIPTION
B. K. HGGAWDD KWNPLNS
108 Sixth Street ( Bessemer Bldg.) Pittsburg.¦ja 100 sixtn street (Bessemer tsiag.) Pittsburg. $
.FhCLB0 gBIoF$& 
IoICL0B «0k0,2.F$& I$« .BF$CF$& 
hLC g,2J0BH
IB- “W\ SUITE
11K Irpwwt HrlmmrT cmru gnMr1 Nbt gwlcmsA j,
The Standard of Excellence
MacDonald’s
hNbtnms Nbt Fem hlmN4 HwtN «Nnbr* ,abe1 
CNcEms Mwl Fem hlmN48gNbe* Awvms8ANs-mrs 
gNDwlsT 0reu
2P8 HFXCH HCu .FCCHALB&T .Iu

---------------------------------------------------

The T$4T$*15
many fires, especially if the temperature is high. New 
hay in barns ferments or “sweats” and may char or 
ignite the Hoor or siding. Caustic lime has been known 
to fire the wagon in which it was being carried and red 
od in woolen mills sometimes inflames spontaneously. 
Poor lubricating oil carrying volatile matter and used 
in bearings where considerable friction has developed 
has caused serious fires. Wool and cotton stock in 
waste mills are often found in a smoldering condition. 
With trained men and automatic sprinklers, little fear 
is entertained, as the fire is usually extinguished. Dry 
garbage containing grease is used for fertilizer. This, 
when allowed to stand in a moist place, if often spon­
taneously ignited and has caused disastrous fires. 
Probably some fires attributed to spontaneous combus­
tion were the result of overheated journals.
Unknown Causes.
The table used to illustrate the variety of causes of 
fires includes a very large percentage of unknown fires. 
If in the case of loss through fire the persons interested 
would tell the whole truth, this number would probably 
be largely reduced.
That the prevention and extinguishing of fire may be 
made more systematic the National Board of Fire Un­
derwriters originated what is termed the Underwriters’ 
Laboratory, which is established at 282 Ohio street, Chi­
cago, 111. This was incorporated as late as 1901 and is 
supported principally by the National Board of Fire Un­
derwriters, aided by many other organizations. The 
running expenses are cared for to a certain extent by
P&yo*0*o*o?o%
1-2 o^r1
Anv Hart Schaffner 
and Marx Suit 
Overcoat or Raincoat
In the house
£
/0/o?A7
§ $20 garments $M0 $U0 garments $M5 N
O if nr .. ,,„™ »„r ¦¦ r„ O$25 “ $M2.50 $U5
SALE STARTS FRIDAY
$M7.50 §
I
o 
$ ? 
?o
?o * 
? o / o ? o ? 
? o * 
*
PHNN LOH., near NthMM-M9 PHNN LOH.
I$/0?
a system of fees which are exacted from concerns wish­
ing to install fire fighting or fire preventing apparatus. 
The board of directors includes nine men, with a presi­
dent and secretary. The engineering staff consists of a 
principal and seven assistants; the electric staff, of a 
principal and three assistants. Mr. A. H. Nuckolls is 
the chemical engineer for this organization, which in­
cludes also an engineer of engines and oils and an assist­
ant engineer. There are 18 branches throughout the 
United States, including the well known and important 
cities. Materials to be tested are divided into general 
groups:
Extinguishers.
Retardants.
Gases and oils.
Electrical fittings.
Signal system.
Miscellaneous.
Further sub-divisions are made, dividing the appara­
tus to be tested into secondary groups marked A, B, C, 
D, E and F.
The manufacturer who wishes to submit apparatus 
must conform to certain details regarding a preliminary 
fee, shipment of apparatus and test. The total cost for 
each group is as follows:
Group A, $250.00.
Group B, 10000.
Group C, 75.00.
Group D, 50.00.
Group E, 25.00.
Group F and Miscellaneous cases are considered un­
der special cases.
It is the purpose of this laboratory to examine and 
pass upon apparatus and materials and not to make 
money. Under Group A, with many others, are found 
chemical extinguishers and stationary extinguishers, 
hydrants, meters, pumps, automatic sprinklers, asbestos, 
asphaltum and glass.
Group B, acetylene appartus, gas and gasoline en­
gines, heating and dying systems, etc.
Group C, hose, hose couplings, paints and roofings.
Group D, valves, gates, metal-clad doors.
Group E, electric bells.
Group F, pigments.
The appartus passed upon is tagged with a permanent 
metal or other suitable label. The importance of such 
a system is evident to every one and it is needless to 
say that the men in charge of these tests must be above 
reproach, and are selected as much on account of strict 
integrity as for their practical learning. It is well 
known that the hand-extinguishing business has been 
greatly misrepresented by concerns selling poorly pre­
pared apparatus, some of which have actually no fire­
fighting value. The ' present arrangement eliminates 
such materials and specifically details the size, pounds 
pressure per square inch, form of discharge and outlet, 
etc., and in fact all points relating to materials for fire­
fighting. No less in detail are the rulings for a sta­
tionary chemical fire extinguisher.
His hat does not seem to fit him. 
No, he always was crippled.

---------------------------------------------------

n6THE TARTAN
C. EISNIER
ARTISTIC FLORIST
9
I B. A B. j
'* IA $M5.00 C
FRESH CUT FLOWERS 
AND FLORAL DESIGNS
SPECIALTIES
always buys a good Rain Coat 
here—now it buys a $20.00 to 
$25.00 Coat.
6105 Penn Avenue, East End
Bell Phone 82 Hlland
* Ö
FToWers
The largest stock on hand at all times 
is the one from which to select. §
The prices are reasonable and con- §Tsistent with the best quality.
A. W. SMITH |
£ 3K^ HFXCH Ik0$L0 .FCCHALB&T .Iu V
y»,W-»-A J--T- A.T-A'-«-v“ vDODOOOOO“vW . “v‘D vv .OODO’O
Dc "STo\x Zlaa.O'W
that we print more books than any firm 
in the East End ?........................................
JDo "2'o-va. Zns-w
that our Programs, Topic Cards and Leaf­
lets elicit the admiration of lovers of Fine 
Printing ?.......................................................
X>© Ton ICaa-o-w
that we are prompt, and that an order 
for a dollar receives as much care and at­
tention as one for a hundred dollars? . 
If you are fastidious, if you require 
prompt and efficient service, come to .
SFiLHB IKXTSCHEIS,
6117-6119 Kirkwood Street
Bell Phones—86 and 9216 Hiland
**
*4*4*
**
*
*4**4*4*4*4*4*4*4*tt
A NHGGWN NLDAWNLG BLNK ¡
^1K HoFCHgF 0,« HCB00C 
KP9 gFgCH Ik0$L0
CAPITAL$4,000,000
SOLICITS THE ACCOUNTS OF 
STUDENTS
B0H2LBh0H 2k0B K1 oF,,F2$H
I
I
g I
c BOGGS & BUHL %
o sv PK,PK,OK,PK,'OK*PK,'OK,OK,P,i,OK,PK,PK'OK,OK,OK,.OK,O*i> §
j THE RITTENHOUSE*j
4* 4*
% BALL ROOM HAS A *
| CUSHIONED FLOOR %
t PERFECT for DANCING $
4*
•f..{c<£e ’ ig.^ ° ¡•Aefa.{*
4<>\4*0%4-0S4<>N4*>%4<>\4<A4<>N*0%4>0\4<>\4<*s 
IK*
£
PRIVATE DINING ROOM
FOR CLASS DINNERS 
IS A DREAM
Kuhns in the Rittenhouse
! I BEST EQUIPMENT
Highest
Grade
Work
Prompt
Service
*
Ö4*
*
O4**Ö0srNcEns1mt 1893 Awr1 .1wbms ’
}%oXS£gX8riOrioX8rioXSrioXS£.SXSri*SrirX8rioXSrioXS£VXp 
VXOXOXOXOX8nvXsVX8VXOXOXOXOXsSXOXOXs\nXO\XOX8
0k0BYCHF$& F$O
SHOES |
We make a specialty of a Storm tan in ^
several styles for young men at WKuPPu WsHLNLN & BLKHE THWH KW. f
K3^-33 J22« HCB00C V
^»4.^C>4<^^^>fr04^4-C^04-04'04*04-04^4-04*«
