Camelie 3Tartau
*• Today’s Editorials 
\ Voice That Must Be 
...... lieard
- The Big Show Is On! <1
CARNEGIE. INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY^PITTSfeUR.GH, PA.TUESDAY, DEC. 4, 1934
roblems of 
Fraternities 
I Are Discussed 
At Convention
¿National Undergraduate 
Interfraternity Council 
Convenes in N. Y.
JULIAN MUNSTER 
IS REPRESENTATIVE
Rushing,Cooperative Buying 
And Improved Relations 
Topics Discussed
Approximately 60 Universities 
rod Colleges were represented at S$|ti6 National Undergraduate Inter- fraternity Council -which had Its ao- flfeuaJ convention during ThankagiY- '«:|w vacation at' the (Hotel Roose- l&elt in New York. Julian P. Muu- ?i?sier. President of Interfraternity ^Council, represented Carnegie.Jvi Aiter a constitution had been ¡¡adopted, questions, that have been ^problems at Carnegie were dlscuss- jfed. Hushing system*. both open land deferred,' were advocated by f:|lhelr adherents. Each considered ' iheir own system best.
Council’s Strength The question was brought up "How can • Interfraternity Council aintain-strict control-over, frater- iHiea oh the' campus.’^.. In answer ¡to (hie It'wes brought out that inas- . _jh as all nationals desire recog­nition on the- campus» non-recognl- hecomesstrong weapon in the'hands of Council. /;
The ¦¦ problem -bf Improving rela- Hioos''between fraternities' on' the pus brought forth-many'Ideas—* the most -valuable 'ofwhlch was the suggeBtlon' that' Interfratemity Council run several dances during ie year to be attended by f rater-Hymen.. ..............
Cooperative Buying Discussed ' 
Cooperative buying waa highly . raised, and encourage^, even to the extent* of buying-.among schools If Itey*1-happened' to be located1 near 
each other. . ;.|f Other-:, topics, nnd^r •-. diaousslon !wre: tbe'House plan at Tale, .and (he trend,toward ,leas emphasis on Ihe ytual'in^ffa^^tly llf©. . .¡/ . Mr.;. Muriatfer .stated .ugtm' Tetujn^ g;T.iiiat*'~tfi‘^'rc^cluS6n-i'“r5adg; : was: that our'.Council, ac^tvp wag.one [of the‘best repreSented--there:"-v'Jy,
Glass Company 
Qlfficial Will Speak
A. I. Ch. E. Hears H. H. Blau 
Tomorrow Night at 8:00
Mt. Henry H. Blau, . assistant 
manager of .. the .Jiacbeth-Evans 
Glass Company,' ot Charleroi, Pa.,' 
'will address; the student .branch ot 
the American Institute of CliemicaV tomorrow , evening at :8 Industries VPropesses The' public
Mr. Blau received his B. S. de- Chemlcal Engineering at Carnegie in 1919, and his M.:S. de­gree at M. I. T. in 1921. After leaving M. I. T. he was employed In the office of the Macbeth-Evans Glass Company, and since then he i held the positions of head of -«search- ¦ laboratory, ««perlD- dent of tbe factory, and assist? . gc-neral manager of the com-
•i ltib-adrlrePB Mr. Blau will dls- i6 the historical development of glass manufacturing, contrasting "he methods which prevailed sev- ral years ago with the more mod- ru ones which are baaed entirely n technical control.The «application of engineering
Physical and mechanical processes involved in their manufacture.Mr. Blau is a member o£ the lional chapter of the American In­stitute or Chemical Engineers, and also tho American Chemical So- cloty, and the Illuminating Engi­neers Society. He has1 served several important committees for these societies, and he is the au- tlior of numerous papers on glasses and their applications to illumina-
Carnegie Is Ho&t to Leading 
Scientific Men in America
I Famous Scientist
of.' Albert Einstein, who will er: the Jeslah W. Gibbs leetur« he American Association for the Advancement of Science.
Ruth Nichols
At Assembly
‘Adventures[In Thè1 Ait5* 
Will >Jì£. Discussed ; ¦ 
By Noted Flyer
today by Ruth Nichols, nationally known aviatrlx. The assembly will be hel>d In; the' Carnegie Music Hall at 11:30. Mias Nicholas will apeak promptly at 11:46.
Stujdent Council, sponsors of the isemblv. have asked all Fraterni­ties to co-operate ' with them by attending. William F. Becker, pres- ' of;Student Council,..will pre-
1931 she was awarded ' the United States -Women’s Championship ior Flying, by theTLIgue Internationale des Avlateures...'Mias* Nlchola la the only- woman who has ever ..held three world's rd^ at one time. - She accom­plished tbia feat in. 1931 when she
and "Wellesley
President Baker Heads 
Local Committee; 
Einstein Speaks
moat scientific minds in Ai wheu the American Association for the Advancement of Science holds its annual winter meeting in Pitts­burgh bn December 27 through January. 2,Some 3,400 scientists, represent­ing the pure and applied scientific
places In Oakland, the civic center of Pittsburgh, as well as several clubs and downtown hotels, will be used during the meeting. Section­al meetings will be held at Carne­gie, Pitt, P. C. W., Bureau of Mines, Y. M. H. A., Board of Education, and the new Mellon Institute.Tbe A. A.' A. S. is organized ac­cording to sections, each composed of several related technical socie­ties. There are fifteen of these groups holding meetings at Pitts­burgh and each will conduct ses­sions at which problems in its special field will'be explained and discussed. In addition there will be several general meetings, 
Einstein to Speak . Prof. Albert Einstein of. Prince­ton, . one of the world's foremost mathematicians, will deliver the Josiah W. Gibbs, lfectxire before the sections comprising the .mathe­matics, division.,. .. .Other, scientists who ..are expect-, ed'to attend the Pittsburgh meet­ing are the Nobel Prize winners. Dr. Robert A. Millikan.and Prof. A. H. Compton.' The economlc-.group Is planning'' to hear the fofemost, economists of the “New Deal.”Chairman of- the local committee' in, charge of arranging details for, tho A.' A/A!, S. meeting Is Preal-
Carnegie are Col. - Samuel H. Church, E. K. Collins, general' sec* retary; L. H. Miller, meeting placea; W. N. James, publicity;- and H. E. Sterling,' program.
ulty Head Committees
Work. Other sections will consider technical progress in medicine, mathematics, physics, astronomy, zoological sciences, botanical sci­ences,. social and economic sci­ences, historical and philological sciences', : agriculture and educa-
Progress In the varlbus branchei of science during the past year wiJ elated by America’s outstanc
Shakespeare 
Revival Opens 
D ecember 5
'Troilus and Creseida*’ 
Begins Tomorrow 
In Little Theatre
PAYNE WILL DIRECT 
ANNUAL CLASSIC
Play Will Run Eight'Days; 
Critical Comedy Based 
On Trojan War
Beginning tomorrow, the Depart­ment of Drama will present Wil­liam Shakespeare’s “TrolluB and Cressida." The play will be given in the Little Theater, from Decem­ber 5 to 14. There will be eight ivening performances - and two matinees.Ideu Payne directs the per­formance.'Troilus and Cres6lda” Is a very unusual play, one seen perhaps only.life time.. The story boa the Trojan War as itB back­ground, and a large part of the play is taken up with dialogue .be­tween Grecian and Trojanmanders concerning warfare. The Troilus, .the of King Priam, andbetw
the.i main plot .,of the battles:-be- tween.tbe Trojso and Greek for.ces.
Play Is CrltlcaT Comedy - - •- This -play-js a .critical .comedy :in which. Shakespeare... questions. the world’s flnclent .Jdea- of. heroism and romance. In previous dealings
Aenéás noble. In this treatment Shakespeare makes, him a rather lázy poltroon,.lolling on his couch, afraid to fight Héctor. /.- ,The cast for the ^production is as follows: - John Arthur Kennedy, Joaepb Batcheller, Carl Dozer,
Afarcia Leety, Janet Patrick, Marie
Lloyd, William Davis, Robert Got*, don, Andrew- . Watkins,, Thomas Koehler, Benjamin. Yaffee, and Regis Joyce.
Vocational Convention Enlists
Âî-a-of Members of Faculty
Gustafson, Cleeton, Schoen, 
Beatty, Miss Winchester 
Take Active Part
Only Three Days Left 
For Thistle Pictures
'ailed, to make reservations': for 
Thistle pictures. . HTo give these.students â‘ chante have -photographs taken" the .Thistle .has .made special. arrangé ments with the- Parry studio. Thé studio will- .be', open Wedneadaiy, Thursday>and Friday-GTcnlngs for Thistle sittings.. jthls'Js'the only time the pictures can be taken.Final notice has been given by tlio Thistle staff that any. seniors »Tin tan to hàvë tlfel'r aiitings' by Friday evening at 9 o’clock will be omitted from the yearbook. Ar? rangements may ' -be made-from- 12:30 to 1:30 any noon in the "Y"
The' national convention of the. Anttticav-Ve^atlanal—Afieociatioa, an organization of teachers and' pervisors ot agriculture, home
Prof. David Gustafson, head ' of the Department bt Printing, is ar­ranging a meeting* to be held ,at Connelley- Trade School on Decem* her 3 at 9:30 a. m; Prof. Glen Xf. Cleeton is chairman of the Indus­trial Arts luncheon meeting to be held at the William Penn Hotel on December 8 at 12:30. Dr. Ma* Schoen, head of the Department of Psychology, will speak at the Vo­cational Education. program to he held in the William Penn IHbtel, December 6 at .0:30- p. m.In addition, Mr. John D. Beatty, head of .Bureau of Recommenda­tions; Miss Edith . Winchester, head of Department of -Secretarial Studlea; and Prof. Cleeton, head ot Department of Industrial' Educa­tion are members of arrangement .committees.* 'Mf." Oiôar' -ScîïwaTmr nighfr sta* dent In tire Department of Indus­trial Education, 1s president of the Pittsburgh Trade' and Industrial Education Association, which operating in the presentation ot the Thursday and Saturday after-
son meetings. .Among the outstanding men:whp will, speak-at- various, meetings of the convention are Dr.-Jjames- N. Rule,- superintendent of Pùbllc Ed ucation in Pennsylvania; -Dr. Jchn W., Studebaker,-. tlnited States CotnthisBioner "of Education: Walter a Cocking, etiperintendent. of Public Education-in Tennesi
rerslty;-Mr. K- L.- Gg^e.. preaidcut
Printing and- Industrial Eauca- tlon atUdenta are especially urged to attend the meetings oMhe asso­ciation when. Urey find It conven-
¦W- ,
Cabinets Plan 
Christmas Dinner
Tuesday evening, December 11, 
-the dato »that has been set feu* 
the' annual All-Carnegie Christmas 
Dinner- which will be sponsored 
Jointly àé'-in .previous years by the 
M.‘-and Y.' W! C. A. Cabinets. 
Although the! committee has not 
deiinitely decided upon a place to 
hold the dinner, it is known that it wit! be either in the Margaret Mor- ison Recreation Hall or else in- the Faculty Room of the Carnegie
There will be absolutely no charge to students who expect to present, although they will be required to sign a list that will be the “Y” offi-.e sometime be­fore the end of this week.A program, including songs by ie Glee Clubs, the reading of a Christmas story by one of the members of the Department of Drama, and the singing of Christ- carols is being arranged by
The Christmas party Is being arranged,. by Wjl|iam H. Sharp '35, president of the Y.' M' C.'' X Cabi­net; Gwen Haddock ’315. president of the Y. W. Cabinet, Mary Wettach ’36, and'George W. Lambertson ’37.
Second. Intercollegiate 
Seminar Is Planned
Alumni Drive 
Is Under Way
Dollar Day Contributions 
Mounting Steadily
Contributions amounting to 
eflty-flve dollars have oeen 
celved during the first week of the 
annual: Carnegie Dollar. Day Drive 
.which began last Tuesday, and will 
continue until December 31.
[at of donors lncliiâes both alùumi 
nd members of the faculty and ad­
ministration. A list of those who 
have contributed during the first 
weeks of the drive will be 
published next week.
During the. campaign all Carne­
gie Alumni are urged .to contribute 
it least one dollar to this year’_ 
DoïIar Dày fund/ All money col­lected will'be turned over to the Carnegie Tech (Endowment Com­mittee, aad -will coms -undsr the
that for every dollar led hy .1946 for the Eudowi Fund, the corporation will give the school two dollars, provided a total
and .M..of .Carnegie, Pitt, and.jP.sC. W-i will be‘ held (Friday, De¿éihber 7,~ at 4;00. o’clock at the Hefn'z'Houae' of -the University óf Pittabui^h. ... 4 -,-• Mr'.-T. .Z.-Koo, Chinese.leader of the; World • Christian1 Student Fed­eration1. .who .is: touring Europe,’AÔà; 'ïndlàv 'Aüstfaiiâ. anà'' Nortlv America^ will be> the ' speaker at
fronting Christians Today,’The Significance of the Cross the Modem .World.”. Reservation's..'may. be made, at the f" office
Celebrated Pianist 
Makes Radio Debut
Miss Marion Swan, cele­brated Pittsburgh pianist and graduate of the Department of Music in ’33, 'will make.
Thursday evening at 7:15 over station WWSW. The program will consist entire-
Swnn has been touring Eu­rope as a concert pianist. She has just recently returned to
Quarter Hour will be her first on the n>dIo. She will play “La Cathedral Englou­tie*’ and “La Dance de Puck,” both by Debussy; and Cho­pin's "Etude in F Major.’’
Wei fare Fund 
Increased$215 
jls Drive Ends
Substantial Gain Shown 
Over 1933 Figures; 
Total Is $4,876
Carnegie’s contribution to the 
Welfare Fund was increased $216.05 
during the past .week. This brings 
tie.. Carnegie total to $4,870.05. 
These figures were made public 
by„Mrs. L. ,J^ Mpore, treasurer for the Carnegie campaign..
Students, nave given : $234.06. Members of the faculty have rer sponded. with $3,441.25. The stall 6f the Carnegie Institute go^o $1,- 200.75.j “Although the drive has fallen short of. Its goal of $6,000, it rep­resents a substantial Increase Carnegje’s'contribution.lest y said Johin D. 'Beatty, head of tho Bureau of Recommendations,
Aviation Club 
Secures Glider
87 Officers 
Are Appointed 
By R. O. T. C.
Appointments Are Based 
On Scholastic Record, 
Drill Knowledge
McKEE IS NAMED 
SERGEANT MAJOR
Staff Sergeant6 Are Leven, 
Means, Miller, Nagel; 
Form Color Detail
i junior and senior (student
command as demonstrated field and la the class room. 
Assignments to the first bat-
rlcn Vukovlch
German-Built Training 
Ship Housed in Lab.
training glider. The motorlcss ship was built and designed In Ger­many, and was brought to thin country-:end assembled by A. C. "Gua” Haller, famed gilder pilot and graduate of Carnegie.
The ship la à't présent stored in the aircraft laboratory located in the Commons Building. Thé ship will be used to 'tralri' members" of the gilder club. Trials will be held at regular intervals from either the county airport or Bettis field.
' The cost of learning* to fly a glider Is ten cents a tow. A pilot can be trained In from 170 to 200 tows. “Gua” Haller will instruct the motorless plane enthusiasts. In several years of teaching he has never. Mrt »..casualty;
Forty students have signed up for the Carnegie «Glider Club. The plane which ' they will fly has a wing spread of thlrty.four feet. It Is sixteen feet from nose to tail. The fuselage and the wings are built in sections to facilitate re­placements In case of accident.
Jack E. McKee ’36 is Regimental
also erected three closed bulletin boards. The boards are located in the entrance chinery Hall, on the main bulletin board in Engl poslte the Mil dutrles Building.
Fraternities to Begin 
Open Rushing Season 
This Afternoon at 4:30
I Heads Soph Hop [Third Period Under New 
Rules Will Receive 
Trial This Week . _
RUSHEES TO PLEDGE 
SUNDAY MORNING
forthcoming Soph Hop.
Sophs Name 
Chairman for 
Annual Hop
Leslie Shomo Will Head 
Committees; Flan 
Dance For Jan. 11
Leslie C. Shomo ’37, Department of Printing, has been elected chair­man of the commlttoo in charge of this year’s Soph- Hop which will be held on January 11, 1936, In ThlB- tie Hell. .The assistant chal of the. committee has not yet
. Mr. Shomo Is a momber > Kappa Alpha social.' fraternity, Scimitar, men's sophomore honor­ary, and Is a member of the var- èlty basketball team.
Arrangements for tho Hop, which is the anual dhnce sponsored by thé sophomore :Rïnfl«aa in. the U: colleges, are being made by bers
GOODYEAR TO SEE SENIORS
reau of Recommendations fo appointment and ...further Informa, tlon about the company and the
Pitt Students Foil Plans for Pep 
Rally; Carnegie Hooters Burned Out
A. /. Ch. E. Elects 
Dr. Jones Director
D i s c o V e r Pi 1 e of Ashes 
Instead of Wood 
For Boofíre
College Editors Sponsor 
Undergraduate Peace Poll
Literary Digest Cooperates With ssfrt of College 
Editors in Questioning Students Throughout 
World on Their Attitude Toward War
Dr. Webster N. Jones, director 
the College of Engineering, was 
elected to the board of directors of 
the American Institute of Chemical 
Engineers at the twenty-seventh 
annual meeting ot that organiza­
tion, held In Pittsburgh on Novem­
ber 17.
if thelocal committee on arrangements. Other Carnegie professors on the commlttce were Dr. J. H. Janies, head of the Department of Chem­ical Engineering; Dr. Ernest Beri, arch professor of Chemlatry; Augustine H. Weitz, Depart- t of Chemical Engineering; nd Mr. Willard James, head of tho
i further attempt to i
Editors has persuaded the Literary Digest to cooperate in- conducting a peace poll that will be submitted to students of 150 leading colleges n<T .»Diversities in _the, country
which the poll wlUy.be conducted.Five questions, prepared by the Association, will ;:b;e- llBted
of the entire country-what percent-
hether they believe that leading the world in armaments .is the best policy ’.io 'insurer "peace•'' whether they favor government;.control of armament industries; whether they believe capital should be conscript- <ed la time of war and whether the** believe America ’ehQuld join' tho League of Nations^, 'All questions can-be ans'v 6r«u’.lisjr'.'y-es- 
E urdpe'i nc I ud ed An attempt wni^aleo’ be made to
and Bologna. These articles by Mr. Bell will he written exclusively for A. C. E. and will be published in the Carnegie Tartan...."Stäteernen t'ö Be lriter'vTewed 'Mr. Bell has just returned from the. Far East, where he secured a series of Interviews with leading statesmen in China and Japan, stat­ing the policies of those two na­tions more clearly and accur­ately than has ever been done be- fore. While in Europe Mr. Bell
deraon, Mus90llnl, Hitler,Stalin and other of the statesmen .who steer national policies in Eu-
n--G«iversities,.-many.of— Ganadi which belong to the Association ot College Editors, will also be
questions of vital importance to
New
Coining Events
Tuesday—11:30—General Assembly—Mist Ruth Nichols speaker—Musi<
begins.Wednesday—4:30—Tartan Freshman CIaas&! —106 Arts.8:00—A. I. C. H. E. meetlng- Mr. Henry H. Blau speaker— 104 Ind.S:16—“Troilus and Cressida”— Little Theater.Thursday—12:30—-Safety Valve meeting—
Cressida—Little Theater.4:00—Intercollegiate Seminar- .. -Mr» Ti-Z--K«o--£peaker^-Heic House;8:15—"TroSlus and Cressida”—
8:15—‘"Trollua and CresBlda”— Little Theater..12:00 P. M. Rushing , Season
Suspension from Intramural 
Activities, $50 Penalty 
For Breaking Rules
Open rushing season for the 'so­cial fraternities on the Carnegie impua begins today at 4:30 p. m. This period will extend until 12 midnight Saturday. Itushees must of the frutornity houses by : m. each day except Friday. turday when they must .bo ' out or the houses nt 1:00 and 12:00 
Camelmi3 respectively.
This is the third period or the tew rushing rules which '-were; irawn up by Intorfrnternity, Cquh*-:. ell following the wholesale.break*. Ing of rules lost year
Accept Bids Sunday
! And the rushoos may ,accopt n anytime after 8:30 a. m. 9Un> 'Followlng'the acceptanco '9t
his choice .and shall,.bo .goyerñd'Ol , by the rulés 'of ínterírátoi'mty .• Council.' AH 'fraternities >muet . recognize the: .Insignia; pf,another fraternity worn -by a.rtjBhe.e.7 
-Fraternity men must bo out.,oJ!: the presence of rushees.within one- . half hour after a function is over. - Following the scheduled - events , Saturday night no fraternity may-., contact,.a rushee until Wednesday, . December 11, at B:30 a. m. ’This period shall be a - sllenc'é trefiod
a fraternity may hold only one br- choStra-- danco. All- rushing ehdli? ' be clone on the. campus, which In* eludes territory ,ns dencrlb.ed.ln .tfie handbook and lnciud.cs jthe vafloui fraternity hdiiseB; ‘Anjr‘ fraternity found guilty- ot violating theae rules Bhall be sub--. - jeut to it $50 .fine apd ^sp^nslofc.- from nil lritraitiuraV a'ctlvlty ¦ for year. All -chargoH of violation- Bh&ll : be put In writing by the fraternity:.- making the charge and ahall be.; presented to tho president of Inter* . fraternity Council not - ldUr vtliSn January 6, 1935, -tv:
Coal Research 
Lab. Has Exhibit
Origin, Utilization 
Coal io Illustrated
By Irving Gruber
"We-’d be bu'riRQ' W XOd. burned up our bonflre”—So read the note left on the remains ot what to be a Pitt game pep rally bonfire in the- Bowl last Wedues- day evening.'
Carnegie cheerleaders and root­'s had planned a huge bonfire around which loyal fans could gather and get in the mood for the Xbanksglxlns. AlasiilOr so they pu<»d. Home 30 old barrels in a heap Wed;
y around 6 o’clock thought ould he such fun to burn up the honflre ahead of time. They did.
Carnegie student interested enough to try to stop tho intruders. Not so many years ago the dorm would have fought to the end before they allowed any intruder to anything on the campus be­fore' the Pitt game. Four yearn ago the dorm men did fight Pitta*
. burning' ‘'autorrioblYes,' and' lie epithets marked that memor­able pep rally four years ago—said to be the worst student riot’ in Pittsburgh’s history.The demonstration1 broke out shortly before l a. m., Saturday, when ¿n-old car was set afire on Margaret Morrison street by sev­eral students. A cumber of Are en­gines responded to a call to quiet spirited students and extinguish Are. •- - -
nraged. the stu-
rounded by • lumber which was fiulckiy .ignited... Park benches-and tho barricades- used on the campus streets were put across the street on both sides of the street to ham- per the efforts of firemen. The flre was. extinguished after: fifty feet ot asphalt In Margaret Mor street-.buckled . from thè intense' ,)..v (ConUned FKHB Pax*:-T*a.)
' An exhibit on. coal,, prepared by ’ the Coal Research. Laboratory, of . Carnegie Institute'of Technology
S. the exhibit will 1 Mellon Institute.The display is In thred partsitk lustratlng the origin of coal. Itar - utilization, and the study ot coal; - -l#_js..c/>nriur.tftrt.Jj)i jnodfirn labofc., atories. •;».Ono window will contain a large... photograph of a restoration of .a: typical Coal Ago seehe-of-over ¿00,000,000 years, ago. Fossils.;,Of plants- and tree-ltke ferns' and sam-:' pies of varlouB types of- coal from . peat to anthracite showing In de­tail how coal is formed will also bo ; displayed."•I’he' eceond -wiifdow -will c\>nta1ii; ' large chart, Itself made from coal. > by-products by tho Westlnghouse .. ' Electric and Manufacturing ' Com-;, • pany, showing to scale the total..:nounts of coal mined yearly in ' Pennsylvania and In tho United Stales as a whole, and the amounts ¦.of the as cokes, ; tar, gas, dyestuffs, mediclnals, per- ' fumes, rtavoWi-ff estiacts and syn-: thetlc resins. 'In the third window will be. shown some of the apparatus naed r - in the study of coal by the Coal' Research Laboratory. An extract^..:.v
ah apparatus in. which coal is dlfl- tiHed -in a -h!gh- vacuum- at a -pree-V- of one twenty millionth of a - pound will be displayed.
employe a staff of 2C tecbniclanaT- under the direction of.Dr H H Lowry.
Alumni Are Engaged.
In New York Days
Drama are now engaged in entrent v; plays in New- Ytfrk cl** Bo>d Crawford, -a- former- student;^

---------------------------------------------------

THE: CARNEGIE TARTAN, -TUESDAY* J1ECEMBER,4,; 1934
STUe Carnegie arartaa
PHONE HAYFLOWEB
• EAtor-ta-Cbkf .
HŒA^EdUorlÜ^.--FEATURE. EDITO ES:
' REPOITTEHi; :
SPORTS STAFF:
BUSINESS STAFF:
CIRCULATION STAFF:
STAFF ARTISTE:
JEBOME- HANBON iHGAHET GC3FFIN 3ZBT p. SCHWABZ------. PENDLETONa Ladd,'
The Big Show Is On!
M
 ANY WILL BE tbe conflicting stories 
that rushees will hear this week as they 
'are shuttled back and forLb between each 
: .brotherhood stand where aTdent Greeks are 
¿attempting to sell their particular brand - of 
• fraternal felicity, it’s a .grand show, hard 
tiongh it is on the -participants, this rushing
U;/And after' all this hub-bub has ceased on 
¦'-Satrirday night, then what?- Is the’ rushes in 
va,; position to choose 'wisely and fairly, be- 
^tween' the honeea he haa .visited? Perhaps. 
. ’'And'perhaps not.' it Is hard to choose your 
cake by the icing alone.
-It seems -necessary for the rnahee, first of 
all. to decide whether or not. fraternity; life 
In general should be a happy one for him as 
aniridividual, If it appears to him. that It 
.would';not.'thep he Bhoiildnotpledge to' be 
... t»nre that he doesn’t “mias’’ something valua-
- ble In college life. Fraternal hersy though 
Ibis may seem. It is no great' tragedy not to 
know- the secret handclasp or- the mysteries 
of fraternal ritual.
To the man who has decided that for him 
fraternity life has something definite to offer,
' .ye say: free your mind of much that you have 
seen^and even<more.of what you have heard.
. Selecting the particular fraternity into which 
v'you . would fit best demands clear-headed and 
- ^unbiased 'thinking;.. _ln jinany respects it is a. 
; v%iSfIptis - •busine'ss,; ' ¿Boosing the group with 
•which you are willing to share your collegiate 
life for the next-three or four years.
The one essential requirement is that you
- pick a fraternity where some semblance, at 
least, of true brotherhood exists. There la, 
for 'esample, small comfort- to be gotten out
- ,oI a fine' fraternity house or from a group 
&e&vlly weighted with campus “big shots" if 
¦that, same fraternity's members.also happen to 
Hack those congenial qualities that are need­
led to keep the welcome on their doormat 
brushed as clean and theh*-tiandciasp..as firm
$ asvlUtoae- durlng-rushing. week. On..brief, ac­
quaintance it is sometimes difficult to dis­
tinguish between the hospitality of sincerity 
and that of hypocrisy.
Finally, be certain that your Ideals are la 
harmony with those of the fraternity to which 
•yon pledge. It they are not, your fraternal af- 
flllntibn may become a hindrance and a dis­
traction Instead of a. distinct help.
A Voice That Musi Be Heard.
T
HE PTtOBUBM OF 3labiUxiii&;vwajie te CLe 
world should become the concern of 
every thinking ¡¡¡dividual in the country an<), 
in. particular, every undergraduate student, 
it-is generally conceded, that-another World
- Wat would be so tremendous a catastrophe' 
that tbe entire civilisation,of the world would 
1>o completely disrupted, and perhaps, brought
' to an end. That-next war-will-ie-fought -by 
the younger generation ‘ of’today; and it be-
- hooves' them to do their utmost to prevent it.
¦ Just exactly how can they do their utmost? 
Tbat's where the Association ot College Edi­
tors comes in. Using the student newspapers 
to arouse opinions, it is sponsoring a peace 
poll that will reach approximately 150,000 un-
- dergraduates in this country By means of the
- strength it derives from the union of college 
newspapers in this matter it seeks to abolish 
war by ascertaining what policies the students 
consider the best to insure peace and how the 
students would act if war were declared.
- This is not the first time opinions have been 
. collected from students concerning war/and 
-•_E5gwu3£» - itnUrtKiS. But those previous attempts 
vtyere from such relatively small groups that 
: tho results were necessarily insignificant. Pre­
cisely this ineffectiveness has stirred tbe A-
• C-'E.- to action.
.¦ - A single college in the North may diacover 
by poll that its students refuse to fight In a
• •:'war outside the boundaries • ot the Tjnited-
States Six months later another college in 
-. 'the'Far West or South mav ascertain exactly 
w-the siimo -thins- But . they .are "voices. crying 
•- Ii£‘th’e-wirdernesa"—unheard and quickly for-.
•''.'•4^uch.ia poll-to be effective must be (Jonc on 
scale.-. M^aes tbe opinions of'150.000 
-••<vn|iûçr^rûduatefl-r-cryetaUi2e the .attitude of tho 
«'‘«^fè^bidcn^'bodycfths-'cçiuntr?-. and.Disent.
theipeople who shape (he desti 
¦-'^BiCT^oir Îàe natlon. It cannot be ignored. " 
"¡¦¦¦¦Then proceed along the same lines in Europe 
and Canada Make It a . world wide report­
ée voice of the youth of the world stating Its 
altitude toward war Tbe world must listen 
to po tremendous a roipe r
Cameli 3Trtufa ohic lTooin eg
THE WORK,,WE^LiyH, HAPPINESS, AS-.
-PIRATI0N6, -ACHIEVEMENTS,! bAT.' 
3ZBTbA.'( DEFEATS OF MANKIND; 
TOGETHER \WIT.H..A FEW. AD;SCIT>- 
tlOgf . REMARKS' CONCERNING 
SOIMfcFOUNTA(N DELICACIES
i-weni Inlo a drug store, slid'onto a'stool 
in .front of the fountain, and said to the boy, "Chokka soda." While be was mixing 
} who was, next •velous how you---- -------------- now. and get achocolate soda. Fifteen buudred years ago there -wasn’t a potentate in Europe who . could go into a drug etore and get a choco- - late soda. That just shows you bow man has progressed.”
The counter boy turned around and look­ed at me queerly. "Did you say something.
The little gent faced me. "Man has been very slow in progressing.” he announced. “All the animals on earth are abead of him. some of them immeasurably far. others very slightly.’’ He proceeded to at­tack the sundae before him.
While I was trying to understand what he meant, the boy set the brimming soda glass down in front of me. "Looks pretty good, doesn't it?’’ said the boy. 'plated tbe frothy 1 urface“It resembles the
“Haw, haw backed aw: counter.
''What I meant to say,” piped my friend on the adjoining stool, “was this: that al­most anyanimal on earth has achieved a more balanced, happy life than man bos. We like to regard ourselves as the most hlgbly. developed products of evolution, but there is no evidence to support such a conclusion. It 16 a piece of rank egotism, indulged in even by men ordinarily thought to be modest and retiring. Just ask the most reticent man you know if he doesn't
quiet animal like a cat If It thinks It has * conquered the earth, and wait for the an- ; awer. Of course the cat can’t speak to >u, -but .its actions show plainly enough
over Niágara Palls In a barrel in order I.' demonstrate Its mastery over Nature."
He stopped to eat a spoonful of his sun­dae. a remarkable creation. In a lake of fruit Ju/ces reposed ;a foundation of sliced banana, upon which was bullded a dome-’. like structure of Icé cream. Around this edifice were. Nablstiii; wafers, which, acting .asrttying• buttresses;/ kept the ice cream- from collapsing over the sides of the dish.. Over - the whole,' cherries, strawberries, slices of orange, walnuts, pecans,* pis­tachios. and chocolate sauce tumbled In bountiful profusion.:; I looked carefully,. but could discern no'iflsh course. '. <
The.iittle sbrlmp.-coDtJnued, this lime working oh another phase of the subject. - “You know,’’ he paused to lick sómé choc­olate sauce from hlsjlower lip, "man, in or­der to convince blznself that >he^ has - reached' a stage abóye tbe other ’animals, " has to find some activity of his which is not shared by them. And the principal -•¿hiDgiis :tbfs cztegori’, is the snaking of ma­chines which supposedly increase the com- . forts of the body. No animal bothers with luxuries; every man does. And so when he Invents something, he pins a medal on his chest, and says. ‘I have advanced!’ . . . As If everything which Is new were neces­sarily good!”
I said, “Well,invention Ign’l
man’s arts which no; anim and which definitely, sets animals.”
instance. Is a . tool just as much i or a plow is. fiui I don’t say that the use of tools constitutes 'superiority. Superior­ity Is achieved by developing the body so that with It alone Us owner can live in comfort and peace, unbothered by such ¦ petty1 disturbances as artificial tools, which ' need more care tban the body itself. Spiders and men are really a low, unintel­ligent sort of creature. If you'were to plank a man down in the middle of a wll- defhia’ff. he'd be unable to survive without i knife and gun. That Is because he de-
the butterfly. A million years ago butter­flies were as helpless as men; ihey Titdn’t " even have a proboscis. But did they in­vent spoons with which to scoop nectar from flowers, and without which they would starve? Nol'sir! They went about evolving-a proboscis, through which they could suck'the nectar from the blossoms. And right now, there’s not a butterfly in
eating with chopsticks.”
He du^ Into the sundae and lifted
regarded my soda and reflected
* this disgusting lather of bubbly mucus
Sipping the liquid through
••You might also think that the more complex an organism is. the higher it is In nature. I'm afraid I II have to disagree with you. lv seems to me- that the • jelly* - fisli. which is usually condemned because of Its spinelessness, is in realltv far hap­pier. even though it lias less complex a body, than any lion trotting «
fewer hungry- iellyflsh than, hungry lions. Not that simplicity in structure constitutes any criterion". The amoeba, for instance, is- structurally- the • sisnpilest form of pn- iraelvlife, but it isthat accountabove'the iellyflsh initbe scale. It leads a perfervufraBd''unoVd4red existence, rushing aroundrtryibg to engulf particles of food "with ltBfpseudopodla; and never getting >any.tiiqfe for-peace.-> The iellyflsh, oa.the -other hand.-lias planned its sppn-'tf.kdays, e^ that^t mby'ppend many balcVOfi tours. In tted(tat*6i& t&et me ask yquUbjBifpan- the anioobl.-Tit spite of all it A. fury'ajid- struggle, when the time comeaforit.to die.’take any of Its turmoil andv.bluster away with it? No! •
"The lee’ cream-in xnj eoda revolved un-' der the apoon like a gntt ball when you step on It without expecting to.: In a glass case - on the counter- was.-.* dish .of- clnna- aoo bun*. Xaeh torn was colled
and ibought one. thinking, I wJll send this coc- . tile delicacy down as a little ray of sun- .shine, to diffuse - sweetness . and light throughout a dreary stomach. -I bit into It. It.ifas sweetness, but not light.
: 1 swiveled around to face the little man again. "Sa/,? ¿J said, ;“b6w about’ science? How about medicine?' Man has* doctots • who can cure diseases and fevers. Can any animal do that?' I call that bettering one’s self—to: conquer tbe forces which . tend to wipe you out!”
"True,” he answered, "animals haye.no doctors, bat then they seldom get slcki”
form of life?”
You talk about progress, jU6t because you can eat ice cream sodas and Louis XIV. couldn't. Well, if tbat's progress, wbat is
i communities and bives. Slotbs are / high. Do you think that because tbey cited about changes indon't become their surround more stupid than y they do not talk tc their opinions, thetherefore less
But I had bad enough. “Sir.” I said, standing up, “I will no longer permit you to Indulge in this filthy slander of the hu­man race—that fairest flower of a radiant my shoulders back and
that sometimes mankind seems to be with* out a purpose. Yet there is always before' us tbe glorJous example of the long rise from the beast to the human being, with all its attendant hopes and fears, Its as­pirations and soul-stirrings; a rise which has often been accompanied by great vic­tories, but never by even small defeats!It is true that men have at times been dis­couraged, especially when attacked from within the ranks by euch white-livered , rascals as you; but they must nevertheless keep in mind the deathless lines of the1 ortal Bard of Avon, Lord Alfred
for you have dispossessed the field!’
I was about to say more when, hearing s
"Hi, doc!”, I said.; "I thought Td.jusfci step out and gel a sod a.” ' ' |"Well, I’m glad to .have, round, you,”, said * doc, stepping up to me with aTetleved loo It1 on his face. “You ought to let Us kno^j when you’re going away • like- that.” .
"I'm telling you, bud,” eaid-th6.'counted? boy, leaning over toward doc. ‘'He satj there for half .an hour talking every , now i and then to tbat empty chair. He dldn'ii: do any harm, though - Quiet except that
rtter 'ie'^j
" shoulder.
I looked behinà 
seen him leave.
pretty good?
"Yes, that’s pretty good,’ said doc. "But I think we’d better be getting back now.” 
HAROLD STANTON.
The Yale University School of Medicine is experimenting' with a' new course devised to unite’the professions of dentistry'and medl-
ich additional ' da7.
- On Other 
Campuses
the Carnrct*:TarUn.
New York Unlversity (MCEA)— 
Th.e average member of the'clafis of 
1919 of the School of Commerce has 
gained twenty; -pounds since his 
graduation, .fifteen rears ago, has 
added five inches to bis girth, has * jst most of. bis hail or President Roos candidate in 1936.
This information was revealed in answers* to a questionnaire which was seat outJaSt week by tbe com­mittee in charge of the next an­nual Reunion'Dinner. The replies indicated tbat. the majority of tho class cast its Presidential ballot for Hughes in 1916. Harding in 1920. Coolidge in 1924, and Hoover in
than half, that nuj pecked.” * Others, not so frank, stated that they were “hen-pecked,
the favorite hobby outdooi
Syracuse University (MCE.S esult of an editorial is The Orange proposing a current course, Dr. FlnJa G. Craw­ford of the'School of Citizenship and Public- Affairs, has staled that be will attempt to establish such
Dailv
The purpose of the course will be to furnish students with an open forum where tbey may discuss rent problems or local and national interest. A committeo chosen from the students attending the Initial meeting will select tbe topics to be
chlnations In' tbe Interfraternity Council, the Temple University News Is sponsoring a-rotating.of­ficer plan. This method-haB been
Piit-Students Foil 
;Pep]
“"T . Conti«
.beat. .RJot .calls were sent to.East -Liberty .and- Oakland Police St 'dons and two-patrol .wagons and police emergency car ..rushed thirty meo to the^sc'eiie.
'Milk bottles began to fly and al- most simultaneously officers were -being "Struck. .'The - patrols-and emergency -car were badly. dented.• Twentyr-cars parked: nearby were 'ordered' towed' away' for safety, and even the tow car was damaged' by flying bottles.
Wtieii ‘officers ¡ approached the dormitories, hot water was emptied from' upper windows. Throughout the rioting, bottles, dropped neat the; ranks of the officers, popped in­termittently.
'Police then made use of the-buge spotlights on the two fire engines in the Btreet, playing these tip and down the dormitory windows. As sobs' as tbey located a window from which bottles were' being thrown, polico would enter the hall and arrest all offenders.
After the .riot .was quelled, was found that over 100 students had been aiTeeted. Many of the outstanding studentsvln school to­day were in' jail that memorable week-end, even tbe president of. Student Council that year .{Ailed.
PRODIGAL RETURNS HOME . . . Helen Lyne returned from 
New York much In need of a good rest. Poor gal went to visit 
an aunt who lived In an apartment just nineteen stories up from 
good old terra Anna . . . And the elevator boys would have to 
be on a strike. Yowsa—What a climb *. . . Now she goes about 
humming: "A Bungalow For Two.”
SHOP EARLY AND AVOID THE RUSH . . . Monnie Waters 
was 6een in the men's pajama department at GImble's . - . come 
lucky fellow is going to have violent dreams if he wears what 
Monnie selected . . . yellow roses on lavender background 
seems to be fashionable this year . . . who IS the luck}' chap?
PARTS MISSING . . . Annie Furguson spent a perfectly good 
week-end convalescing from being parted from her tonsils. The 
first couple of days she said she sorla missed them but now she’s 
getting along fine . . . and is Alex happy . . . reports rUn that 
the interne was good looking ... so beware, Alex', beware.
SEEN AT THE GAME . . . Petite .Jettle clinging to Wee Willie 
—and was Willie beaming, and he didn’t even know the score 
. . . Sissy Vilsack and Bud (shucks—her brother £rom Brown)
. . . Seven architects with seven Paul Jones (es) . . . wahoo 
the born blower (who’s that fftiy?) Drummer Ackley tangling- 
tails with the Panther . . . where was the rest of the band? 
Horseface Northy who spent live bucks getting here to see him* 
self lose ten . . . Was it Scotty? George Stewart with a floral 
effect on bis sombrero . . . .believe it was a cris—cbrlaan—know 
dera well it was a sunflower . .'. Charles Anthony Pope attired 
in a jazzy blanket tbat had sleeves.or may it was a topcoat . . . 
Joe Macalka buying peanuts for Mary Lord . . . Joddy and Jim 
bellowing “Hold that, beagtly line” . . . Our three ducky cheer 
leaders . . . didja pipe the derbies?
GONE BUT NOT FORGOTTEN ... Kay Baur, belle of Mellon 
Hal) . . . has lost something that- may affect her life . . . Are 
you guessing? . . . W^U. we have it that she had a wisdom tooth 
pulled ... Jolly time, aye Kay? Only hope that it doesn't 
effect'your studies too.much . . . Remember what happened to . 
Samson when he got his hair cut?
SHOULD BE A LAW AGAINST THIS ... The P. K. A.’s have 
offered four discarded billiard balls, a- tux-.shirt,.and an old.foun­
tain pen-to the Kappa Phi Deltas for their system of rushing,. 
Oh yes, lie old Greek gals of Maggie Murph -pledged aU that 
. they.bid... .chiip... ..chirp-. ... Where have .we. heard, that. . 
- before?.. . . If Shuffle and Mary get together . . .'-watch out. 
youse guys.
On Second 
.Thought
Dudley D. Pendleton, Jr.
“Moronic Matton ’’
'Killed by suppression” was i inscription on a placard pasted v the door of the publication's officii at the University of Louisian where last .week student edltora walked out in protest of Senate Huey Long’s censorship , - campus paper.. , .
weeks editors had beeg
per had . been put night in question and tbe presséi bad been running for a good feu bour when an order arrived iron (he Kiogfish to stop the presses. PrompUy the presses were stnrv ped, copies of the paper al ready printed wero burned, and
tbat was objectionable Long.
ain did editors protest lev
Long and asked four of the to resign. This they did, bui alone. The remaining three a ., date editors handed in their resjg.
Dr. Smith, "is whether, in of difference of opinion as I constitutes proper material for it elusion in the Reveille, the 8l> dent editor’s opinion or thal of ibr faculty supervisor shall prevail' And. since the University gets
the "faculty committee on si» dent, publications” seems to coin­cide very conveniently wltb tbel of Mr. Long.Is there any reason -why stu­dents should be made to conform in action and thought to the dic­tates of this: man Long or a other bully? It is very tme tli Ihey are getting their education' an institution supported' by the tax payers’ money. Can It be the desire of the tax payers to ha» graduated froitheir university „ . _ who may be driviJlke sbeép by any "big bad #t>lftbat comes along; - I hope and t«¿] that it is not-Says . Heywood Broun:
Carnegie Is Host to 
Leading Scientists
and new applications of science. The exhibition will occupy the en­tire third floor of the new Mellon Institute,Plan, Elflhty,.Exhibits Of the eighty exhibits now beinf; planned twenty-one wilt .originate in Pittsburgh. Included in this group, are displays by Carnegie, Pitt,- Mellon Institute, Aluminum Company of America, Bureau of Mines, SL Margaret's Hospital, WesUnghouse, and Bell Telephone Company.
DEGREE RING ORDERS ARE DUE
advlaed to place, their orders in the Alumni Office four weeks- beforo. they, desire delivery. ¦ .
STUDENT NIGHTS ! j
every Wednesday and Friday \
Zke
featuring Will Rÿshàinek j 
and bis Schenley Dance Band 
from Ten until Two
; ; . with Breakfast at Midnight j
¦ ¦!Special Rates to Student Parties |
| •'^ For information,, telephone MAfiower 6400 |
I FORMAL DANCE every SATURDAY NIGHT ;j 
£ , . DOLLAR:-per person
.yës^énd ;/ 
here’s why—
We know that smoking a. pipe is different froth smoking a cigar or cigarette . . . and in trying to the tobacco best suited for pipes . .
We found out that the best tobacco 
for use in a pipe grows down in the 
Blue Grass Section of Kentuekyy and it 
is called White Burley. r
There is a certain kind of this tobacco 
that is between tbe tobacco used for ciga­
rettes and the. kicd that is used for chew­
ing tobacco. :
This is the kiijd of tobacco that we use, 
year after year, for Granger Rough Cut.
¡We got the right pipe tobacco, made 
it by the right process . . .Wellman’s 
Process... we cut it right... rough cut. 
The big Granger flàkes, bave to 
bum cool and they certainly last 
longer, and never gum ¡be pipe.. .
.. .ma
common - sense 
package—10c
the pipe tobacco that’s MILD ' 
the pipe, tohacco that’s COOL
-—folks seem to lite *t

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TAKTAN, TUESDAY; DECEMBER 4, 1084
THE 
TUESDAY
PHONEANYOFL
® ®v •
BY JERRY HÁNSON
THE LESS SAID ABOUT THE PANTHER-TART AN game the better, 
seems to me. Hod the Ladies from Hell gotten off to a belter s 
perhaps it would have been a different tale. But as ft was, even 
Panthers didn’t'play a very good'game. I thoxight the Harpster
put ob a much better exhibition against the Hllltoppers than they 
the finale.
wo of the scores made by the Pitt aggregation were purely gifts. 
The old fumble play gave the opponents a perfect set-up early in the 
and it didn’t take much for the Panthers to make good use of it. 
Had they been playing in the class showed, earlier in the season there 
ild bave been no need tor a show- of generosity from the Tartans. 
There was a dearth of co-ordination -noticeable among the Plaid 
•ers, which lins been showing itself all through the season, not at­
tributable to the players lheraselves.
OCCASIONAL SKIRMISHES BETWEEN "TWO GUN1' ACKLEY and 
the Pitt Panther—sometimes the entire Pitt band—did a lot to relieve 
the tension during the ball playing. A show of spjrlt such as that 
lends hope to the students who remember the school when it was live- 
ly. But what will Carnegie do when Ackley graduates?
Senior yellers Glehel and Davis did a graceful swan song. They 
are to be congratulated on a very successful season. 1 can say with, 
out contradiction that the cheering of the past season, and of the year 
before, has been much more responsive than it was previously. Leader 
Gisehel was very sentimental when he realized that it was his last 
stand before the Carnegie football section, and he’s taken his oath to 
keep the remnants of his derby, his sweater, and this paragraph till the 
end of his days.
THE COLLEGE ALL-STARS VS. THE PITTSBURGH PIRATES game 
-, another slow cr.e, but it accomplished. Its purpose; I euppose.
At first' it appeared that the only advantage the Pirates had over 
the All:Stars was in the professional rules, but later on In the game it 
seemed equally apparent that the Pros could handle the opposition with 
> if they' really wanted to. Some tricky plays, were used by the 
College boys, which gave the Pros an occasional dish of their own 
medicine.
Mihm and Lewis starred, with Croft and Doloway offering pretty 
good rfcslst&nco, Doloway played thé. end position, so he was not 
> dolils usual effective work in busting up the line plays.
THE PAPERS HAVE IT THAT’JOE’ BACH'S Dukis have challenged 
all the major ’elevens in. the country,, and itiat they have- been. refused-, 
because the team Is too good. Just whaj does that make the Tartans?' 
Or posalblÿ'lt la the reTereelng of two weeks ago that explains the Tar- 
vletony—eo goes- the Inference. • •
THE CARNEGIE SPLASHERS HAVE LOST A STELLAR PERFORM-' 
'•Bill Holiday. Bill Is out.of the.iwim’.pendiqg.^a sinus operation 
which will prohibit his taking to the water for the reBt of the season;
AFTER EXPERIENCING THE MIKE SENSATION as the'fluest star 
(!) of the Tartan Quarter Hour, ye scribe has decided to stick to the 
held .typer—the Idea that militons of people are listening to what Is being 
I said simply gets one. " _______________ ' ' ’
Vdrsily G rid Squadto kose -Nine* | 
Playe rs by Commencemen t Route
The Pitt game, ww» t 
song' for nine of the playe:Tartan varsity. After three years of service under the Plaid of Car* negie. thèy hâve finished their grld- carçsrs as far as college foot- , goes, prom now on'..any fur­ther’ football which they may -play or be connected with will he either as a coach, as a professional, or*1 merely'for the fun of-the .'gar
Heading-this.list of Outgoing grid' stars are Co-Captains “Lib’' Lewis and “Dutch" Croft. Lewis’ career /was of course- interrupted-., by his ,famous broken ' leg which meant almost a year In the- hoBpital, but after a year's absence, he came back and proved, himself to be just as good And even better than' be­fore his injury. Lib has proved him­self to be a great end, and his absence will mean much .to future Plaid teams.
“Dutch" Croft , has been one of he most stalwart and dependable men on the whole squad. He too had an interruption In his football carper, dug to that old jinx, In­eligibility. ’Since ’ thenT“ hoVêver, he has been right in there and has earned for himself the right to be ranked with Auch -stars; as Lloyd Yoder, Hugh Sprinkle, and Tank Hlghberger. Although he has not been a sensational star, he has been & true picture of consistency and' dependability.
Teamed with Croft at tackle thisyear...was' ¦'•MooBe" -Doloway.Christened Clifford, he was nick* named “Moose'* because of his rug- Ged character, to'quote the “Tartan Personalities" found in. the foot­ball programs. “Cliff” really allow­ed to a great advantage this year, for lie was always right in the thick of it when it came to tack­ling, and was responsible for much the defensive prowess of tlie team.
Rating high on the list of valua-
Tûdtt&JUnJb!4
il fo.r cojof—nghl foi MQM'for'Ifrulh. 
Watorpreof Celer», W prcofandG«fl«r<iMtolublai'r>l.Blacfa:j.;r-v C-
CHAt.'MrfclçéÎHS »COÌ
Huppu.vB. < -American'-.
ŒA^Eu.p u.dv
bis men who have played thelr last- for - Carnegie, is George Goodridge.‘Goody’.’ proved.: a very'
replace Leewls. when ihis ’ieg bothering - 'hitiu.; '•'This:, year, how­ever, ‘•“Goody’1 proved'that he was' not just a good ' 'substitute, ,even though some might have... gained' that impression last - season, forj.he .t>laye.d,;althost ‘ ..every 'game. ’ And played .well..
Probably the most sensational 
star of the year- is . Joe Mlhm. 
After being shifted to quarterback 
this year,'he became a capable field 
general In addition to being the 
mainstay of the .team at' kicking. His punts were the features .of every gat&e, and. he Immortalized'; himself in Carnegie grid history by his flejd goal victory --over -Du-'
seasons. - Originally playing at half­back, he acted as quarterback m'any •timess during- his three- years Sf.
another year in school, bub ^e- h&i': piayed ftistJasi-fcollege;^
• .Three other, playerswllbbe lost this year, and.;':ailtho.ugh iiQne ,of them have been exactly, stira,-they; have all been dependable' arid-'have worked hard 'they ->liole • way. .through, Kay Burna. W. Spisdk, and "Butch*’ Vofderburg wl)l all "he.' missing when the roll Is called next fall, and like the other men, the)' are leaving openings which will be hard to fill.
Plaid Natators 
Compete With 
Distri et Tearns
One Hundred Entrants 
: Expected, to Meet
In Open;¡Events
when they enter the A. A. U. this week at the Keystone Athletic Club. Both the Varsity., and the .Plebe swimmers have been prac­ticing since the latter part of Octo­ber, and they are ready to find out just how good they really are.
This.meet is an open meet, and Coach Allen Risedorph is entering candidates from both the Varsity and the Plebe teams. Mr. Rise- dorpli is entering men in three events. In the 100-ysrd freestyle event will be Derdyno and Leavitt, from the Varsity, and Proelich, of the Plebes. Four men will try tliei: luck at the breaststroke. Thre* experienced swimmers, Von der Lanckcn, Culler, and S. Patterson, and une Plebe, R. Patterson, teied in this event. The other event in which the Tartan coach is en­tering. men is the 100-yard back­stroke. Three men, Boulelle. Ham- merchmidt, and Plebe Ziegler, will gwim under the Plaid colors.
This meet will be some indica­tion of what to expect during the coming season, for the teams which will be met in this meet include some of the best swimmers in this
Intra-Mural Board 
Announces Schedule
A tentative 1934-35 season sched­ule for inLra-mural sports baB been worked out by- the Carnegie Intra-
31; entries due. December 13.
Wrestling, January 22 to Janu­ary 31; entries due January 11.
Boxing, January 15 to' January 22; entries due January '
. Softball, April 15 to May 22; en- trfes due April 4.
Fraternities and dormitories are already preparing for the intra­mural competition in the various .fields. Competition Is very strong, and an interesting season is in tho offing. *- Organizations '' of - most. eV’er^,'typV- Art#'-' enter-'the intrai- murol -Bports, and members who have not won points Jn varsity or plebe athletics in the same, field may compete. See Mr.- Risedorph, in the ..Gym,'. for detailed informa­tion. • ;
Wo m en*s Athletics
•Todaydo’sE
Thursday, at'12;'Since' the -lunch 'hours have always been extremely popular for volley­ball, she .¡hus decided to try-them for basketball; also; However, if present arrangement is'at all inconvenient to anyone, you will £eed - only to consult Poppy or the gym. teachers for more -satisfactory periods. Just keep In mind that championship - that someone take from those never-yet-de- feated ’ seniors'. Of course, I’m not at all prejudiced—just a "little' -wor­ried. Anyhow; all - is.’ fair in loVe and basketball: lor something)-—so let’s forget aboijt. the/love part and. coricenetrate our wiles upon- the twb' required practices per week, fiest you forget — 100 points for maJrtng the .team or 75 for attend­ing all;'practices. : ,V': 
I^ifie.flash! Eleanor-. Lowrey,
board.sometime this week.
¦'¦Two.vhlmdred' more votes than thé^numbèf’¿f' students registered were- cas^-atya recent election of Uie .Unlvers.fty-;of Missouri,
: by this method.—Bates Stu-
homeward 
Cameli
Home for ChrSfitinasI Telc-'. - 
phone .ahead and settle 
your traveling arrange­
ments — tell the. family 
when you’ll arrived •: 101 
be n good cbancs to work 
in the idea that neckties 
are not what you need 
this year.
9CaU -lOQ'mUei for 60 eenu by Day 
Rate} fbr -50, cent*.by. Evening Haiti for 35 amp hi’ ZV«^Ar Rat^ (Stftipn 
Sfaiion c&lb,r3*nuiiilf i!DaudiMbJr.
i•trllVVicii
Tartans Close Season 
With Record of four 
¦-¦ Wins: and Fiv&l^&ipeg
Weak; Offensive Hurts 
Skibo’s Chances in 
Tdqgh Schedule
KICKING BY MIHM 
ASSISTS CARNEGIE!
Inconsistent Play by Plaid 
Warriors Noted in 
. Most Games
with Pitt murkou the finale of the 1934 gridiron season for the “La­dies from Hell." Tho Plaid waded through a tough schedule, Jiol get-
When the fiual count taken, the Tartans had scorcd 35 points to 10G tallied by opponents. The playing of the team was spot­ty, the Carnegie gridders sometimes looking like championship material and at- other times looking like
: ¿he only bright 'spot in
ed good as the Michigan boys sported. their strongest
fair Notre Dame team took the: Sklbos, 13-0. The Irish scored on long run and a pass, but Csrneglei received fewer breaks and, In spite of occasional-bursts of power, fail; ed .to: threaten the Notre -Damé goal. ' ' Perdue, the homecoming game,--'was ' expected- tu b» cne. cf the toughest on schedule.- The Tar­tans clicked well the.flrat half, but whon the Boilermakers opened up In the, second- half -the SkibP,'Play became rather listless. ' j |•• Jinx -Broken - ; ••New York’ University haoi.a^sk teajp .this seagbn and vdesplte .thé 'jinx,-" Càrnéélè manàged'^tor 'ltdëÿ the upper hand to win, 6-0. ':Brêakd for both sides were many and both showed offensive power, but neither had a great deal of scoring, punchl Temple got its long-sought revenge the following Saturday when Po^ Waraer’-S :;Owls sonndly . -trounced Carnegie 34-6 in Philadelphia!. The Owls had all ;the ppwer and'breaks
Candidates Catted- 
For Boxfclandger&
| Coach Ernie Sesto - wishes to announce that there Is :an urgent, -need for. freshman jboicing- managers'. Any'Jresh-. lerested in this work d to ' report to- Mr. • : the Gymnasium, any. .
and woro keyed. for the game.! Their passing attack clicked' well, though their far-famed offense fail-, cd to gain. • - • • ^ ¦
, .Upset Dukes 
The most memorable' game of the drab season was' Carnegie’s startling upset of:the highly, tout­ed Duquesoe outfit. The Sklbos, given only the slimmest, chance of winning; ran circles around the Dukes and bottled up their, power*, ful oltense. Tho 3-0 count falls to show the true margin 6t superiority of the Plaid over the 'HUltoppcrs. The curtain dropper with Pitt’s Golden Panthers resulted in an ex­pected defeat of 20-0. Pitt scor­ed twice on Carnegie’s fumbles and was generally unimpressive lor such a highly rated team. The Skibo’s strong defense showed its worth on several occasions in this fracas and displayed some of the team’s potentialities.
HEALTH BULLETIN
MENTAL HEALTH
1—Physical health means little un­less it is combinod with mental health.2—Nervousness, inefficiency,
bursts of anger, signify mental ill health.3—Poise, self-control, and cheerful­ness, together with physical well-being indicate mental
Methodist University
Plaid Cagers 
On Floor at 
Reduced Price
General ^dinls.si^.ii to 
Home Games Lower 
For Six Tilts:
A new policy -In regard' to -the 
admission of tho general public at 
the home1 basketball gomes during 
the coming season . has been In: 
auguratod: by Graduate • Manager 
Clarence ¡Overend. For six of the 
nine home games, the general ad­
mission price has been lowered to 
40 cents. The price for the West­
minster, Pitt and Duquesne games will be $1.00. Arraugeweots ha- also been made to sell season tic ets for all homo games at $4.1 representing s saving of more than 20 per cent.
The home games will start at S:30, with preliminaries with tli Q action nt 7 p. i its and the gene will be admitted to the practice came between the WJlligs of Mc­Keesport and the Varsity on Friday evening, December 7. Studonts may attend on their student books, and the 40 cont admission prlco will hold for others.
The homo schedule, with the prices for the individual games,
Date Opponent•Doc. 16... .Georgetown .......$ .40Jan. 3... .Westminster ..•Jan. 5....West Virginia ..Pittsburgh.......
’Feb. 15*... .Bucknell ...........  .40Fob. 19___W. & J................. .40Mar. 5....Duquesne ....... 1.00
?Intercollegiate Conference Games,
Peoples- 
Pittâbiirgh 
¦ .Trust Co.
Oakland Branch
' Forbee and Meyran -
ehMu B.-ga.-S 
w.I-O
'AV
BT THE 
CENTER OF 
COLLEGE 
ACTIVITY;;:
V
MEMBER FEDERAL 
RESERVE SYSTEM
. . RIFLE CALL MADE
An urgent call It made for freah« *nan rifle manager*. Growing pop* 'ularlty of this «port oners many 
.opportunities. All freshmen Inter­ested please report to Sergeant Bbihffler a¥\'he rifle range. .
C.S. EDMAN
......PÏUNTER
6470 Monitor Street
STUDENTS WANTEDUÜ-i hLfTnie ,r'iMnÜoinWO TRR lTKi3c yenoTPRi3 TfI c voTfITnIWO NeRIc nifoiIca niS 'TÜniIc 06cVV efi lefohO !DVcVV gÜ-i lefohWO a c
American .Writing
Machine CompanyFVD ;uG\A,> ^"\.¿\ yu,,vG¿ApH J - ëS ^,uTfoReaséVV / ëGii eLn vmheeR ni'ni3ifoToÜ-i DICK WAMMOND
£y Long Distance telephone, a sales executive 
recently "covered” more than 153,000 kniles in 
three business days. He spent a total of eight 
hours in talking with his agents m 194 citied—^ 
using Sequence Calling Service. (
This service enables subscribers to> place with. 
the Long Distance operator any number of calls - 
on which they wish to talk consecutively. Con* ' 
nections are completed 
rapidly with a minimum 
wait between calls.
Sequence Calhng/ia 
gust one of the many 
services developed to 
. gear the telephone more 
and more closely to 
business needs.
BELI TELEPHONE
ANY men of the South have 
been “in tobacco” for years-^growing tohaccp 
and curing it—buying it and seiiing it—until 
they know tobacco from A'to Izzard.j
Now: folks who have been in tobacco all 
their lives, folks who grow it, know there is 
no substitute for mild ripe tobacco.
And down in the South where they grow tobacco 
and where they ought to know something about it—in, 
most placés Chesterfield is the largest-selling cigarette.

---------------------------------------------------

JBE* CARIÌEGJE ’ 1'AiR.TAN. TUESDAY, DJgEMfeR J, lg34
THE 
CARNEGIE 
: PL A IB
P^' cdlted V.MIsbt Seboo1;ito4«c
by 1Ï4 Edlterlsl. Doani oí.t
The Louisiana Morass
.'Everyman, be be great or small, honest or crooked, someday makes THE mistake. Huey Long, the
log of a Louisiana college newspa- - per is a stroke too bold even-for a self-styled dictator. Thle act, a direct blow at the right of free speech and at the freedom of the press, is, in our minds, Huey’s first attempt to test the strength of the
lie will go In his1 efforts to remove the "flsh” from the appellation that 1n synonymous with the Louisiana
The story behind the killing of the college newspaper is interest-
) suit his mere whims, hut he- ' cause it sliows how be will use any attain personal ag- long since, the vas amazed to learn that Huey wa9 actually pass­ing out money instead of taking it Jn. That is, he was making per- . . Bonal loans to college students to make it possible for them to see ¦as important rootball game. This bounded very'fine, but there was a ¿elfish motive behind the gesture. ;ÎTo Huey (it is hard to këep from wHling Hooey) Long, the adyertls- Jngtbat he received from tfaié. ac- • i!dn\waa dirt cheap. . 'It was cheap, }>ut in ^another sense, of thé word..,VJHuey . enjoyed.-* th^ .game* Hejtlibu ght; that fo.otbaj! was 'of swell - ¡gttm^yn . faqt. /.tie saw; incite eiiv ' thnei?sm" that the atuderits "had for the game a good chance to win their . support. .Almost immediately after the game Huey’ named a mas' to the : State Senate. That man was a iootball player. A non-resident football player» In fact, he is bo ' non-resident that even his naturali­zation is in doubt-. This appoint- meat, made purely as a means .to .'securing student herô-worship for the'noble Huey, has failed misera­bly in Its purpose. Long made his
i reads of in , dumb, Iist- iess, and just, looking for a good
• worth I included it within his Strangely enough,
. 'lion stopped. until the letter removed; Prom ' this censorship has come the suspension of 26 stu­dents of journalism and the killing
•48/!
. fallen before Huey Lçrçig• -thought of. This comet that has .¦Illuminated the pages of the na- •.'tioo’e newspapers has risen andBarely will fall. Long has risen high. According to physics, the higher a body rises the faster and ..harder it will fall. Long will fall.• The Anglo-Saxon longing for right ' and justice Is just aa much in the’blood of the people of Louisiana >s in the rest of the country's pop- ' olatlon. Some day, and that day is not far distant, this trait of justice ..;,wlll come to the fore. Then, and ! only then, will the 'fchlldrèn in ' ? BChool be correct in assuming that there are forty-eight states in this
Parising Situation Has 
Been Much Simplified
It has.become generally apparent 
that the park{ng' e(t\iiti6n -iii the 
vicinity oE Carnegie. -. haa; greatly. 
-Improved. This la due"entirely to the care which the students have ' teen <.exerûising'-.-itt-‘ipajejiing their
necessary space has heen used, and the full parking facilities have been made available. Even- the "Idle Night Student" has quit squawking.
{die Thoughts : 
;; of an
Idle Night 
Student
You're-Telllng 4i$aca W 7 Bë
Thatwehayehad.a vacation of two daye and that we are now beck again doing the same old stuff. Well an far as I am,concerned it ’t a vacation at all. A review of the assignments the profs, hand* it would look like a big sized headache for moBt of us who attend the night classes. ' Why can’t a vacation be a vacation, I ask?
off. But these good intentions shattered when I received no- >f the new assignments and
That there are teen more shoj>- plng days ’Ull ChriBtmaB. What 1 would like to know is how .many assignments are we going to
things like toxt books and the like hanging over his head? Wouldn't it be fine if we could de­clare a moratorium or supping bo that when a holiday came along we could juet go out on a strike. Or maybe a censorship would Bufllce.
been treated to Indlam Sum: of the days were too; warm-to be,: comfortable and. tho ^nlngs; they werei> like mld-eum- r-rilflhts;-•J woW’t be long though! until we haVe- .oilr; annual dose of ' old: WeQtHei*!: arid;vtKei» watch Ind blow on the "Cut”
Student Has Taken Part. 
In Major. Activities 
.. Of Night School
The Carnegie Plaid' - has been 
publishing a weekly series of arti­
cles pertaining to each member of, 
the Night School Council.This week, the staff presents Mr.
the College of Industries.While this is Mr. Bluemle’s first •ar as a member of the Niglit Student Council, be has taken an part In all tho Night School social functions during past three years. In recognition of the effort which he ha& put forth in activities, he has been awarded an insignia for the past two years.Mr. Bluemle is a member of Nu Sigma Alpha fraternity.
Butler University, the college which pioneered in marriage courses is - now offering a course In- the 'art -of -Btaying married.
Canadian Canine Gets 
Chance to Cast Ballot
Every, dog has his day, and Bingo, a wirehaired fox terrier, .will have his when a general election Is held in Canada next year. For Bingo, according to the new voters’ list, Is entitled, to vote.
How Bingo alone, of all thé canine population of Canada, got
who pays rentfor 1L After the two enumerators had been furnished Ith the names of all the human occupants of the apartment, in­cluding 3>Sre. Annie Pauze and Miss Callte Pauze, they conscientiously inquired whether there was onjf else. "Only Bingo," replied Mr. Dechaine. . !
Just how this innocent attempt ’ humor came to result In the voters’ list hearing the nam 'Bingo Pauze, clerk,” he is still at oss to understand, 1
. We must in all honesty admit; that Bingo’s-1 Registration was pure­ly accidental. In variance with lo; :al "mistakes.” • • ______
pibertMEngravm^ompanijJ
HALF-TONES ETCHINGS 
COLOR PROCESS PLATES. 
PHOTOGRAPHY. 
COLOR,NEWS and COMMERCIAL: 
—'ART*- 
FOR ALL ILLU STRATIVE 
PURPOSES
Bluemle Assumes Duties as ; Vice President of Industries
Nu Sigma Alpha Is 
Planning Function
Night School Fraternity Set 
For Annual Xmas Dance
The Catholic University Tower says that every man has his price, every co-ed her figure.
Didja Notice
the College' of Engineering Is now being used.as..a Bwimmlng
by the Tech-Duke game.THAT on Monday night. Dr. Ihrig taught ^le first class in 14 years. Er war ein guter Lehrer, well er das Deutsche gern spricht.THAT that sleepy look on a
THAT the Thanksgiving Holi-
THAT that’s that and I'll be
Explain Awarding 
Ôf NSÇ Ïnsignia
•The Night' Student 'Council, at. 
t,he close of each school year, hon­
ors ,tfco^e. otoden^e'yrhek bave dis­tinguished thèms.elves 'lb'; Council i activities" by ' an Insignia award.' All registered students, who have paid their activlties/fee, are ellgl« ble:- for thiB';awBTd' providing theV; inform the Council of, their desire, to be considered-1 ; ‘ ¦¦ ' -Points-low^fd',thiarJnaignla may. be earneflat each event'sponsored by the Night Student Council, but a certain percentage ' must be ob­tained at events directly connected with the school of régistration. This means that the aspirant to the Insignia must assist at the va- ; rlous smokers, dances, and bau- I quets put on by the officers of the various schools as- well as the dances sponsored by the entire Council. A certain number of puints may also be earned by con­tributing articles of general school interest to “The Carnegie Plaid.”
ALBERT W. BLUEMLE
Now that the'Thanksglving rash
that another night school group is 
clpatlng one of their annual 
Christmas season functions. The 
Nu Sigma Alpha Fraternity Is plao-
plans, and that the usual good time promised for those who plod to attend. More complete details will be available later.
Phi Nu Fraternity 
Holds Dance Dec. 8
This notice will be the last . announcement of the coming Open House Dance to be held by Phi Nu Fraternity on, the evening of December 6 in Thistle Hall. As the name indicates,'this dance will be
vited to come and dance to the : tried and true- strains of Freddie HeiTlck’s orelies-•. tra. The admission fee is one dollar per .couple- Tickets may*be obtained from frater­nity members, or at the Night Student Council office.
Plaid Nuisance Is 
Lpose Once Again
Reporter Emerges Frpm Hair’ 
: ' fafCb^unmist tô ÉécÎaim
. ..What; ho, mine-franpj •; this ,1s 
pR^ginald the' ' Roving ' Reporter.’ 
(Oh; ma]' "That man’s.-.iere?again). 
Yes, the people's friend in search' 
of - ttie : unusual,1 : ' again - ¿taggers; 
forth with another perverted vie' 
point' [Having 'nothing better 
do on Thaaksmas afternoon', I 
thqught that I would dash in to the 
Stadium and view the conflict. I 
went with, the expectation of see­
ing the old Alma. Mater-pmy Plti. 
Can you Imagine my consternation 
when I found that Pitt was being 
played by n young chan by the 
name of Mihm? The b*< put up a great battle, but 1 think that he could have done better if some of thé fellows wearing the snme col­ors would have kept out of his way.
be well to make sure that the Coun- il has your name and address and ;hen to respond to each call of the Social Committee for workers. The earning of this Insignia is well worth while as it is the key to all
extra curricular activities. The va­rious student offices in the school organization are open only to those
¦Blow Your Owii Horh 
!; Slogan .Lecfts Humor
i’ Listen!' Can’t.', you hear s .body ¿honking-hla inotor-bori Ijrou: read this ?-'^The chances that: you;-cai^r'-Weri on Sunday (Tnorplng.hifiyou-Jive 'in the cl.ty,;.'or| .the auburbs.lbrinear some country icros^roadaV;;’'Atid t£e odds are .¡even.' heavier;,that Ij some one' is Ipjonltfn^.vln'Viuri'sari more or less liijemtrtel^; he':l^d.oing Jt unneces- fsarlly^JH^.doesn’t^’ant to slow upl !.at aj^irn^f,'or'$ek^ifl impatieht'to^ fpaes'Bls'!nefgfabor -on the aveniie. or he wants Junior to hurry up and come downstairs. These are gener- erally excuses for lionking rather than reasons for (it. The highways are as safe as they are, and not too safe at that, In spite of them, not
least in every four could be si­lenced without danger to the wan-' dering motorist, and with great re­lief to jangled nerves and ruined dispositions.
The American Automobile Asso \ ciation is preaching this doctrine to the honking heathen with almoel missionary zeal. It Is calling tht. attention of city officials the coun- try over to the various "noise dis armament crusades’’ lately launch ed overseas. In England hoots, toots and all other honks are not only forbidden but strictly forbid-
den’ln'iallfbüntiùp.'Bjeas-VB^- 11:30 p. m. and 7 a. m tS?JL Britishers can,.sleep again rlïl 'don Is.said^tq.be.in fact as well’‘I in theory à hornless town fr 
I iurfew^ .to. eun-up. Observers lïort a Iar-fgrpateiY fare in drivl^l as a; result of thS.order. It i8 raul •that,P9_accldents have been reiu!2?B ;edsi.vhiqh;..fcan tte; aftiibflted to^SdlsèontAiiince ^of the 'hornfi' T
SQUIRREL h 11 .T,
"ìéÀiÈÌSER-saop
. *823- FORBES STREET
JLABGEST. SELECTION OP PORTABLE AND STANDARD-SIZED
TYPEWRITERS$14.95 to $75.00
^ ^ RENT A TTPEWRWER11"1
PORT PITT 
TYPEWRITER CO.614 LIBERTY AVENUE
INDIAN
COACH LINES
Buses to àU points
from
PittsburghWay
Round
'Trip.
to
New York$7.50$13.50
to ••
Chicago...8.S015.30
Detroit...5.509.90
•to.-.
•Boston; ;.10.00
and
18.00
all’ points from coast 
to coast. ¦
For further 
lnfdi-mation call
COurt 9500
QUSCKLYWECOHO
Don’t spoil the thrill of getting home again by worrying 
about the shipment of your baggage. Solve the problem by 
leaving everything to Railway Express. We will call for 
your trunks, baggage and personal belongings and send 
them home on fast passenger trains through to destination. 
You can take your train home with peace of mind—knowing 
that your baggage will be there quickly and safely. Railway 
Express service means.- economy. Vvè give a receipt on 
pick-up and take,'a. receipt on delivery. ; i double proof bf 
swift, sure handling. If you cannot go'Üome; send your 
presents to your family and i*4erids .by Railway Express. 
For service or information merely tail or telephone
92G Penn Avenue.
. ATlantic 3600 Pittsburgh, Pa.
- . The beat then is ht transportation '
SERVINGJJHE NATION FOR 95 YEARSA^u;E^>\5yA
HOME FOR THETrtCufohuHOLIDAY?
yoMJLoaffloÿo 
ECONOMICALLY
AGENCY, Inc. '
NATION-WIDE RAIL-AIR SERVlèÉ/^
