WAITING IN LINE
Two professors slated to appear before Senator Charles McCar­
thy’s investigating committee wait in the long line which stretched 
from Machinery hall to the Book Store, where autographed copies of 
‘Das Kapital’ bound in hand-tooled Moroccan aardvard were distrib­
uted free to all faculty members.
Notorious Expert Tells 
Of Holiday’s Origin
by H. G. Warren Wilson
Most people know the significance of April Fool’s day, and not 
a few people (infact not any people) are aware of the origin of this 
traditional day of tomfoolery.
As this story is of little interest and great length, I shall relate
it here. If a few of the key points« 
seems to be missing, I can only say 
in defense that I certainly am not 
one to sacrifice brevity for the 
sake of coherence.
Fool’s Gold 
My story beiijg with a particular 
Fool in 15th century Britain.
Sir Thomas Fool, then head of 
the Fool house, resided with his 
lovely wife Chlrophyllis in a city 
now known as Flushing-down-the- 
Drain, England. This city was at 
that time simply called Flushing- 
down-the-Drain, England.
Tom Fool was the discoverer of 
a chemical process whereby he 
could manufacture a kind of gold 
from orange peels. This type of 
gold, named Fool’s gold in honor 
of its inventor, resembled natural 
gold in every respect except that 
it was less durable, which had the 
singular effect that people spent 
it faster than other gold, giving 
rise to the saying: A fool and his 
gold are soon parted.
Nobodies and Anybodies 
Chlorophyllis presented Thomas 
with twin sons, both of them boys. 
These twins, Anybodies and No­
bodies, probably the greatest fools 
of all time, are the center of the 
story.
Nobodies Fool was a rather fool­
ish lad who lacked either the in­
telligence or ambition or both to 
take much of an interest in any­
thing. But Anybodies Fool, the 
younger of the twins by 17 months, 
was not anybody’s fool.
Nobodies Fool, by an odd quirk 
of fate, quadrupled the Fools’ for­
tune during an amazing run of 
[Continued on page 2\
Elections
Class and Student Council 
elections will be held on Wed­
nesday, April 22. Petitions are 
available in the office of the 
Dean of Men and are due on 
Friday, April 10.
The following council rep­
resentatives are to be elected: 
E&S 3 representatives
• Fine Arts . 2 representatives. 
H&SS *1 representative
MMCC 1 representative
1 assistant secretary who must 
be a janitor in MMCC.
CIT To Receive 
Carbide Grants
Extensive Scholarship 
Program Is Undertaken
Carnegie Institute of Technology 
is one of a limited number of lib­
eral arts and technical colleges se­
lected to receive undergraduate 
scholarships and grants- in-aid 
from the Union Carbide educa­
tion fund.
Established by the Union Car­
bide and Carbon corporation of 
New York, the undergraduate 
scholarships will cover the com­
plete cost of tuition for a full four- 
year academic course and also will 
provide reasonable allowances for 
necessary books and required fees. 
In addition to providing assistance 
to the students, each scholarship 
will carry an annual grant-in-aid 
of $600 for the college during the 
life of the scholarship.
400 Scholarships 
To initiate this program, Car­
negie Tech along with the other 
participating schools will select a 
group of students from their 
freshman classes in addition to the 
assigned number of scholars from 
the Pittsburgh region who will be 
selected for entrance in Septem­
ber. Under full operation, it is ex­
pected t^iat the Union Carbide 
Scholarship program will cover 
about 400 scholarships at an esti­
mated annual cost of approxi­
mately $500,000.
Three-Fold Purpose 
The purpose of the Unión Car­
bide scholarship program ñs three­
fold: to assist deserving students 
who are interested in business 
careers to obtain a college educa­
tion; to help assure the availability 
of larger numbers of men and 
women, trained in technical and 
non-technical colleges, for future 
executive and administrative 
careers in business and industry; 
and to encourage and give limited 
financial aid td a cross section of 
smaller American colleges and 
technical institutions of tradition­
ally high standing.
VOL. 46—No. 20 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY WED., APRIL 1, 1953
McCarthy Committee Finds 
¦ Subversive Influences Here
Though the fact is virtually unknown to the student body and 
to most of the faculty, Carnegie Tech has, during the past week, been 
the scene of an extensive Congressional investigation. Conducted in 
the third sub-basement of Machinery hall, an inquisition under the
direction of Congressman Charles^----------------------------------------------------------------
McCarthy has been under way 
since last Wednesday.
The public and the press have 
J been barred from these meetings, 
so confidential are the events 
transpiring therein. But three rep­
resentatives of the Natrat staff 
have succeeded in gaining admis­
sion to the sessions by posing as 
two American Legion members 
and a Pennsylvania Superior Court 
judge.
For the information of the stu­
dent body and the world at large, 
v we transcribe here vital portions 
& of the testimony as delivered by 
Staff members at this institution.
Primary among the faculty 
members quizzed for leftwing ten-
Gallic Students 
To Visit Tech
Carnegie Tech is one of five uni- 
® versities and colleges selected by 
the US government to be surveyed 
by a team of French educators in 
connection with the exchange vis­
itor program of the department of 
state. Under this program, five 
French scholars will be at Tech on 
March ¿0, 31, and April 1 to study 
the plan of professional education 
now functioning in all Carnegie 
colleges. They will observe how 
this plan is implemented through 
instruction in the departments of 
architecture, home economics, me­
chanical engineering, psychology 
and education, and science.
At the conclusion of their visit, 
the educators will return to 
France to direct the development 
of programs and methods in 
French national education, with 
the purpose of preparing profes­
sional students for their present- 
day responsibilities in their careers 
and as citizens.
dencies was Professor Igor Schunk 
of the history department. The 
testimony ran as follows:
McCarthy: How long have you 
been on the faculty here?
Schunk: Since 1943.
McCarthy: At that time were 
you a member of the Communist 
Party?
Schunk: No.
McCarthy: Is it true that in the 
spring of 1950 you advocated a 
revolution?
Schunk: I praised the French 
revolution to my classes at that 
[Continued on page 2]
AFYM
A monstrous bookburning 
will open the 1953 activities of 
Carnegie’s chapter of the 
American Fascist Youth 
Movement next Monday. All 
students and faculty members 
are invited to attend. Bring 
your own books.
Refreshments will be served
All students who have ex­
pressed an interest in this no­
ble effort are urged to be 
present.
Five Teachers 
Receive Award
Five teachers at Carnegie Tech 
are the recipients of the Carnegie 
teaching awards. These awards, 
which were initiated last year, are 
presented in recognition of the 
outstanding quality of their un­
dergraduate teaching, as measur­
ed by Carnegie’s educational ob­
jectives and of their influence 
upon the teaching of others.
Recipient of the awards are 
Allen H. BlaiSdell, associate pro­
fessor of mechanical engineering; 
Robert L. Lepper, professor of 
painting and design; Earle R. 
Swank, assistant professor of 
english; Robert B. Carlin, professor 
of chemistry and Philip L. South- 
wick, associate professor of chem­
istry, who will share one teaching 
award because of their joint ef­
forts.
The awards are equal to half 
the recipients’ annual salaries and 
are to be used to provide either 
two summers or one semester in 
which the winners may do what­
ever they feel would be of most 
[Continued on page 3]
Though Difficult, Henry IV 
Proves Good Meat For Dramats
Editor’s note: We present herewith the first comentary on a 
performance of the Carnegie Tech drama department to appear in 
modern times. It is not meant as a professional criticism, being writ­
ten by a student of science rather than of the arts. But we hope 
nevertheless to present an account and evaluation of the plays 
from the lay-student’s viewpoint, and hence to establish more of 
a reader interest in the dramas staged here- than can be done by 
blunt notes telling briefly of a play’s coming two weeks before the 
first performance, as has been the case in the past.
By Bob Dannels
The current drama department production, Shakespear’s “Henry 
IV,” is entertaining and enjoyable. The cast clearly demonstrates 
that difficulty need not be the reason for this play seldom being
?:----------------------------------------------------
For Sale
One (1) alcoholic sapajou, 
will sell or trade for clutch of 
colorblind anteaters. Inquire 
Stanislaus Mzdrbpqskcz, MU. 
1-5380.
professionally produced.
Part I is concerned with the 
rebellion against Henry IV by the 
aristocrats under the direction of
the Percy family. The title role is 
played by John Bracchitta, who 
stimulates anticipation in his ex­
cellent opening speech, but there- 
settles down and does an 
adequate job. f
Oscillations 
Prince Henry, heir apparent, 
records, the best performance of 
the cast. Early in the play, when 
he conspires with some friends of 
questionable reputation and takes 
part in a robbery, he has the audi­
ence thinking he is a carefree* 
playboy prince. Soon he reverses 
the impression by convincing his 
father (and the audience) of his 
seriousness.
Such oscillations are achieved 
several times during the ensuing 
course of events. This duplicity 
of character is extremely difficult, 
but William Ball achieves it con­
vincingly and with apparent ease.
DUels and Rogues 
. Shakespeare probably did not 
intend Hotspur to be the leading 
character. He is a main character’ 
certainly, but more of Hamlet’s 
cousin than his brother: Without 
a doubt, John Ragin is an excel­
lent actor, but he tries just a little 
[Continued on page 3]
DOWN THEY GO
Despite popular protest, the FPHA barracks, beloved campus 
Iwelling place, is at last being torn down nnder the supervision of 
Bte Edifice Wrecking company to make way for a varsity quoits field, 
lee story page 9.

---------------------------------------------------

Fage 2—CARNEGIE NATRAT—Wednesday, April 1, 1953
McCarthy—
[Continued from page 1] 
time, yes.
McCarthy: Then you will not 
deny that you have encouraged 
tne overairow of the government 
during the past five years?
Schunk: But that was the
French government.
McCarthy: The French are our 
allies; any attempt to uproot the 
government of France is danger­
ous to this nation as well.
Schunk: But . . .
McCarthy: You did advocate a 
revolution in France?
Schunk: Yes, but that was a long 
time ago.
McCarthy: If you were capable 
of advocating a revolution a long 
time ago, you are capable of doing 
so now.
Schunk: But the French revolu­
tion was over more than a hun­
dred years ago.
McCarthy: So much the worse 
that your evil scheme was effec­
tive. It is shameful that persons
A pril Fool—
tContinued from page 1]
luck betting on the jousts. Fearful 
that Fool’s luck might run out, his 
brother Anybodies, who was no­
body’s fool, persuaded Nobodies to 
invest his winnings wisely.
Fool’s Names 
Anybodies went on to study art 
and sculpture and after a time ac­
quired no small repute as a master 
of portraits and busts. So fine 
were the works of Anybodies that 
even today many of Fool’s names 
and Fool’s faces are often seen in 
public places.
Nobodies, because of his money 
psooM ‘s}3sse Di}ueuioj jaq}o pue 
and won in matrimony an attrac­
tive French Lady, Fifi DeFunet. 
Fifi gave birth to an 11 pound 
daughter, who was named April.
The End Is Near 
An unfortunate experience early 
in life had a devastating effect 
upon April Fool. It seems that 
upon being introduced to her, a 
young man extended his hand 
and said “Pleased to meet ‘’you, 
Miss Fool, I’ve heard so much 
about you.” This brash familiarity 
created in her a permanent dis­
trust toward the male sex, and 
at the age of 21 she entered a 
convent and was never heard of 
or heard from since that time.
From the meager available 
knowledge of her life, it is im­
possible to discern why April 
Fool’s day was named after April 
Fool, or just how the tradition of 
committing pranks in her honor 
was begun. But it would be ridic­
ulous to say that April Fool’s day 
is not named after April Fool. 
That would be comparable in ab­
surdity to denying that Colum­
bus day is named after Christo­
pher Columbus or that Easter is 
named after Luke Easter.
Fraternities and Sororities
Open An Account and Get 
VOUB FULL DISCOUN1OAKLAND HARDWARE
OAKA LNDHRW WEU
Lni ver HRWE
Photographic 
Equipment and Supplies
LibertyPhoto
Supply
sD tyAAAc a y AOA onnB WvU
University Recreation
BOWLING
Afternoon Bowling 
For Students
RENTAL of BOWLING SHOES
AKcyKI GDTMs WEDRRE 
WGerS.rF tyIOKc
such as you should be „considered 
competent to teach in our univer­
sities.
More Testimony
Later in the day, Professor K. 
F. Gauss of the department of 
mathematics was called to the 
stand with the following results:
McCarthy: Were you a member 
of the Communist party in Octo­
ber, 1948?
Gauss: No.
McCarthy: Then why did you
not stand for the national anthem 
at the Carnegie Tech-Bethany 
game during that year?
Gauss: I had the gout.
McCarthy: Then you do not 
deny having been a Communist 
since then.
Gauss: I did not say that.
McCarthy: But still yo do not 
deny it.
Gauss: Certainly I deny it.
McCarthy: Then perhaps you 
can explain the charges that you
have functioned irrationally to­
ward your classes.
Gauss: If you mean I taught my 
classes the characteristics of irra­
tional numbers, that is true.
McCarthy: Then you do not 
deny this?
Gauss: I cannot.
McCarthy: With all this' irra­
tional behavior, you still persist to 
represent yourself as a loyal citi­
zen?
Gauss: You do not understand
my meaning.
McCarthy: I think I understand 
only too well. Any professor cap­
able of irrationalties in so precise 
a field as mathematics, is doubly 
capable of deviation in the polit­
ical field.
Full information on the remain­
der of the testimony and its results 
here will be published at a later 
date, after the committee has com­
pleted its investigation.
IF YQU CAN WIN 
THESE WINGS YOU CAN EARN OVER 
<5,000 A YEAR AFTER GRADUATION
Important facts about the opportunities for YOU 
as a Commissioned Officer—Pilot or Aircraft Observer—
in the United States Air Force
Must I be a college graduate to take Aviation Cadet Training?
No. But you must have completed a minimum of 60 semester 
hours or 90 quarter hours toward a degree. In addition, under 
the new Aviation Cadet training program, you must be be­
tween the ages of 19 and 26)4 years» unmarried, and in good 
physical condition—with high requirements for eyes, ears, 
heart and teeth.
How long before I get my commission? .
60 calendar weeks. You will receive the finest aviation training 
in the world—training that not only equips you to fly modem 
military aircraft but prepares you for executive and administra­
tive work as well. At the completion of your training, you will 
have acquired a commission as a 2nd Lieutenant and the 
coveted silver wings of the United States Air Force.
Where do I take my training?
Pre-flight training will be at Lackland Air Force Base, San 
Antonio, Texas. Primary, basic and advanced training will be 
taken at any one of the many Air Force bases located throughout 
the South and Southwest.
What happens if I flunk the training course?
Every effort is made to help students whose progress is unsatis­
factory. You can expect extra instructions and whatever indi­
vidual attention you may require. However, if you fail to 
complete the course as an Aviation Cadet, you will be required 
to serve a two-year enlistment to fulfill the minimum requirement 
under Selective Service laws. Veterans who have completed C 
tour of military service will be discharged upon request if they 
fail to complete the course.
What pay do I get as an Aviation Cadet? And after?
As an Aviation Cadet you draw $109.20 a month pay. In 
addition, you get summer and winter uniforms, flight clothes, 
equipment, food, housing, medical and dental care and insurance 
... all free. After you are commissioned a 2nd Lieutenant you 
will be earning $5,300.00 a year—with unlimited opportunities 
for advancement.
Are all Aviation Cadets trained to be Pilots?
No. You can choose between becoming a Pilot or an Aircraft 
Observer. Men who choose the latter will become commissioned 
officers in Navigation, Bombardment, Radar Operation, or 
Aircraft Performance Engineering.
Do Aircraft Observers get flying trainingi, too?
Yes. Aircraft Observer Cadets receive approximately 200 hours 
of "in the air” instructions. The primary phase of Aircraft 
Observer training is the same for all branches (navigation, 
bombardment, etc.). The basic and advanced phases of training 
vary, depending on the specific course you pursue.
What kind of airplanes will I fly?
You will fly jets. Tfye Pilot Cadet takes his first instructions in 
a light, civilian-type plane of approximately 100 horsepower, 
then graduates to the 600 horsepower T-6 "Texan” before 
receiving transition training in jets. You then advance gradually 
until you are flying such famous first-line aircraft as F-86 Sabre, 
F-89 Scorpion, B-47 Stratojet, B-50 Superfortress. Observer 
Cadets take flight instructions in the C-47 Dakota, the T-29 
Convair, and the TB-50 Superfortress before advancing to first- 
line aircraft such as the F-89 Scorpion, B-47 Stratojet.
Will my commission be in the Regular Air Force or ReserveT
Aviation Cadet graduates, both Pilots and Aircraft Observer», 
get Reserve commissions as 2nd Lieutenants and become eligible 
to apply for a regular Air Force Commission when they have 
completed 18 months of active duty.
How long must I remain in Service?
After graduation from the Aviation Cadet Program, you an 
tendered an indefinite appointment in the United States T<i 
Force Reserve and are called to active duty with the United 
States Air Force for a period of three years.
What recreation and leisure time will I have as a Cadet?
Discipline will be rigid—especially for the first few weeks; 
However, i$ is not all work. You’ll find swimming pools, handball' 
courts, movies and other forms of recreation on the post.
Where will I be stationed when I get my commission?
You may be stationed anywhere in the world ... Hawaii, Fat 
East, Europe, Puerto Rico, elsewhere. During your tour of duty, 
you will be in close touch with the latest developments in new 
flying techniques. You will continue to build up your flying 
experience and later should have no difficulty securing C GTT 
commercial pilot or navigator rating.
Your future is assured if you can qualify! Here’s what to do:
/
Take a transcript of your college credits and a.copy of your birth certificate to your nearest 
Air Force Base or Recruiting Station. Fill out the application they give you.2 If application is accepted, the Air Force will arrange for you to take a physical 
examination at government expense.
3 Next, you will be given a written aiyl manual aptitude test.4 If you pass your physical and other tests, you will be scheduled for an 
Aviation Cadet training class. The Selective Service Act allows you 
a four-month deferment while waiting class assignment.
WHERE TO GET MORE DETAILS
5<l<v yopr SrCirlv T<i Lnidrb Hnlrb T<i Lnidr Drdi,<v<S- Nmm<drh 
ni Fn,i SrCirlv T<i Lnidr DNEG gS<vU Ni pi<vr vnw
T5MTEMN• GTkREb uRTkYgTDERDWb gU WU TMD LNDG'
oCle<S-vnS 41b kU G
U.S. AIR FORCE

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, April 1, 1953—CARNEGIE NATRAT—Page 5
THAT COOKBOOKS | DIVINEj you Ä
, can't Mise! mm(But only 
time wifi tell
MOM SAYS THE WAY TO A MAN S HEART IS 
. THROUGH < HIS STOMACH!
Only time will fell about a plan to trap a man! And only time will tell r about a cigarette! Take your time...
HOW CAN THEY TELL90SOON? HE 
MAY LIKE THE WAY SHE CO0KS...&UT 
ÿ NOTTHEWAY < t she lo¿>ks! y
X GOTTHIG MARVELOUS COOKBOOK..,AND i'll INVITE HIM * TO DINNER i 
EVERY NIGHT/ JWOMBS-ñr 30 days n &4t//mHT
5 andmOR
EuRDR %gWE HR T DRTWN• ou«
Camel is America’s most popular 
cigarette —leading all other brands 
by billions! Camels have the two 
things smokers want most—rich, full 
flavor and cool, cool mildness... 
pack after pack! Try Camels for 30 
days and see how mild, how flavorful, 
how thoroughly enjoyable they are 
as your steady smoke!
R. 3. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N. C.
More People Smoke CAMELS than any other cigarette
E«fRoDMERDW J4Ky1K
All Kindt M Low o
Ameritan Typewriter Co.
tt onnB WvU mT tUt TMN
Conveniem Parking*
Employment
Opportunities
IN
VENEZUELA
Representatives of CREOLE 
PETROLEUM CORPORATION 
will be on the campus on 
Thursday, April 9th,
to interview unmarried graduates with majors 
in Engineering, Geology and Accounting. See 
your Placement Director for interview 
schedules.
Lecture
On Tuesday, Mar<?h 31, Dr. 
Colon M. Diphthong of the de­
partment of English and other 
Bohemian languages will give 
an illustrated lecture in the 
Little theatre on Masefield’s 
tragic opera currently being 
presented by the drama de­
partment. This opera, which 
concerns life and love in a 
wrecking company, is called 
Edifice Wrecks.”
The eniire acilon taKes place 
in the cab of a 30 cubic yard 
steam shoveL The opera was 
based on an Anglican folk- 
story concerning Stephan, a 
guitar tuner and soldier of 
fortune (played by Carlisle 
Interchange) and Eloise, a 
pious but inordinately amor­
ous young oyster shucker 
(played by Laurel hill).
Informal Rushing99 
To Be Tried By Girls
In addition to the regular formal rush period in October and 
February of each school year, PanHell has revised its by-laws to 
include informal bidding for a trial year beginning Wednesday, 
April 8, 1953 and ending the day before spring formal rush period
in 1954. This means that a soror-*~ •--------------------------—-------------------------
ity may bid a girl informally any-
Awards-
time during this period, but in­
formal bidding will be illegal dur­
ing regulation, formal rushing.
To be eligible for informal rush­
ing, a girl must be eligible for the 
preceeding formal rush period. 
The requirements for that period 
are:
AD women students including 
transfers who were in attendance 
at Carnegie one semester of the 
preceeding year as a day student 
carrying at least 36 units in a de­
gree course and having a 2.00 fac­
tor at the end o‘f this preceeding 
semester are eligible.
The procedure for informal 
bidding is as follows:
1. When the sorority wishes to 
bid a girl, they approach her 
and ask her if she wishes to 
join their group.
2. If she says she would like to 
join, they tell her there is a 
bid in the Dean of Women’s 
office.
3. The bid is accepted in the
Dean’s office.
There will be no formal rush 
affairs as parties, teas, open 
houses, etc. during informal rush­
ing—the sororities will meet the 
girls on campus, in Skibo, etc., 
informally.
[Continued from page 1]
value to them. These awards have 
been made possible by the Car­
negie Corporation of New York 
for a five-year period, in order to 
support Tech in its development 
of professional education.
The 1953 awards committee 
consisted of President J. C. War­
ner; Provost Elliott Dunlap Smith; 
A. H. Oliver, member of the Car 
negie Tech Board of Trustees; 
Stanton Belfour, director of the 
Pittsburgh Foundation; and Boyd 
C. Patterson, President of Wash­
ington & Jefferson college.
Life With Mother 
Now At Playhouse
The new comedy about Amer­
ica’s favorite family, the Days, en­
titled “Life With Mother” is now 
in its second week of a four-week 
stay at the Pittsburgh Playhouse. 
The play feature's A1 Spindelman, 
Carnegie drama graduate, in the 
role of Father Day, and Marian 
Lewis as Mother Day.
For all of Father’s noisy rages, it 
is still the gentle Mother Day who 
runs the family. Her obstinant and 
eventually successful attempt to 
get an engagement ring 22 years 
after her marriage provides much 
of the hilarity in “Life With Moth­
er.”
For Sale
Social
All organizations desiring to 
have their events placed on 
next year’s social calendar are 
required to submit the fol­
lowing information before 
April 17, 1953:
1. Name of organization.
2. Nature of event—Do you 
desire to have it considered as 
all-school?
3. Time of event.
4. Place of event.
Please send this information
through intra-school mail to:
Marilyn Seiner
Alpha Epsilon Phi Sorority
Dean of Women’s Office
Big Ice Cream Cones • 
Klondikes 
Tasiy Lunches
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes St., Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes St., Oakland
Main Plant:
3380 Boulevard of the Allies
Clutch of colorblind ant-
eaters, will sell cheap or trade 
for one (1) alcoholic sapajou. 
Inquire Fyodor Zilch, SC 
1-9846.
LETS GO TO
ISALYS
Milk Shakes
Miss Use Koch 
Of European Fame 
To Speak Here
Miss Ilse Koch, beloved human­
itarian and teller of children’s 
stories, will speak in the Little 
Theater next Tuesday at an unde­
termined hour.
Her topic will be “Duck Eggs, 
Their Characteristics and Social 
Implications.”
Refreshments will be served 
after the talk, at which time Miss 
Koch will display her extensive 
collection of unusual lampshades.
All students, deans, and pro­
vosts are urged to attend.
Patronize 
Tartan Advertisers
The play was directed by Fred­
erick Burleigh. It will run in the 
Craft avenue theater of the Play­
house through April 18.
DR•E T E«fRoDMERD
*4.00
A Month
3 MONTHS 
FOR $10

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—CARNEGIE NATRAT—Wednesday April 1, 1953
Letters2
Henry B—Part I
Editor, the Tartan:
In your article on the Scotch and Soda-TV 
question on March 10, 1953 you refer to the Drama 
Department’s “notorious ban on drama students 
participating in the Club’s productions”; this is a 
complete misrepresentation of the letter, a copy of 
which I inclose. If you are interested in truth 
rather than propaganda, your conscience will com­
pel you to publish it.
Yours truly,
Henry Boettcher. •
Henry B—Part II
June 27, 1949
Mr. David Clark
President, Scotch and Soda Club 
Carnegie Institute of Technology 
Pittsburgh 13. Pennsylvania 
Dear Sir: >
The faculty of the Department of Drama has 
discussed at some length the relationship of the 
department to the Scotch and Soda Club. The 
occasion of the discussion has been the realization 
on the part of the faculty that the entire work of 
the department for the past several years has been 
completely disrupted by Scotch and Soda; and 
despite such efforts on the part of the faculty as 
well as the members of the Scotch and Soda Club 
to remedy this situation, it has become progress­
ively worse instead of better.
Therefore, the faculty of the Department of 
Drama has made the following decisions:
1. A member of the drama faculty will no 
longer direct the Scotch and Soda produc­
tion.
2. No freshman will be permitted to partici­
pate in the Scotch and Soda production. The 
reason for this decision is that during the 
time Scotch and Soda is in preparation, the 
freshmen are working intensively on their 
own full-length plays which are the summa­
tion of the year’s work; and participation in 
Scotch and Soda has in most instances a 
ruinous effect on this work.
3. Neither the shops nor departmental equip­
ment may be used in preparing the produc­
tion.
4. Academic credit will not be granted for par­
ticipation in Scotch and Soda either as actors 
or as crew. Such drama students as par­
ticipate in Scotch and Soda must do it on 
the same basis as do students in/ other de­
partments—as an extra-curricular activity.
5. Students may not be cast in a major produc­
tion afid Scotch and Soda simultaneously. 
If a student has been cast in Scotch and 
Soda earlier in the semester and it is nec­
essary to cast him in a departmental pro­
duction, he will be required to drop from 
the Scotch and Soda cast.
These decision have been reached by the fac­
ulty of the Department of Drama regretfully and 
Only after careful deliberation.
Yours very truly,
Henry Boettcher.
Evidence
Editor, the Tartan:
In the best interests of the Scotch and Soda 
Club and the Drama Department, I feel compelled 
to write to you concerning your article, in the 
March 10 issue of The Tartan, on the Scotch and 
Soda-TV Question.
I’m afraid your wording, “notorious ban by the , 
Drama Department”, was incorrect. There has 
been a representation from the Drama Depart­
ment in the last two Scotch and Soda productions.
I hope that you will publish this letter with 
the accompanying list so that this point may be 
cori-ected in the minds of the Student Body, the 
Faculty, and the Administratiorf.
“A Merry Chase”—1951.
Director—Mark Lewis.
Technical Director—Ken Rossignol.
Costume Designer—Mary Sillers.
Choreography—Joan Ewig.
Design—Jean Armstrong.
Actors—Harvey Jurik, Jo Chianese, John Zisel« 
man, Bob Samualowitz, Joe Simmons, Bob Garri- 
son, Sue Granfield.
“Good Heavens”!—1952.
Director—Charles Conrad.
Production Manager—K. Rossignol.
Technical Director—Jerry Adler.
Actors—Harvey Jurik, John Ulmer, Jerry Wal« 
lace, Judy Freyberg, Mary Sillers and Dick Me- Jt 
Fadden.
Sincerely yours,
Gerald L. Adler, President,
Scotch and Soda Club.
OFFICES: Carnegie Union 5075 For baa Street, Pittsburgh to 
Pa TELEPHONE: SChenley t-4557 alter hours MUseum
l--53t;0, for advertising and subscriptions: MUseum 2-3990
Published weekly during the school year except holidays 
and examination periods by tne students of Carnegie Insti­
tute of Technology. Pittsburg!i 13. Pa
Editor-in-Chiei ............. ................ Fred Sonnenberg
Bu sines« Manager ............... ..............................  David Goldsmltn
Managing Editor ...................................................... Dick Durstine
Sport» Editor ........................................................ Frank fegley
h'cwi Editor ................................ EsteiJe Herlick
Personnel Manager—Dick Christensen Features Editor—Biu 
Smith Advertising ¡Manager--Stan Rosenberg. Assistant 
Business Manager—Jerry Seinei Circulation Manager—Joe 
Le.Marca Photography Editor—Martin Snyderman Reporters 
—Sheila Sullivan. Jack Armoui Joan Cummerton Jane 
S ¡ndei Dave Hubbard. Jackie Connolly Marilyn Seiner-.> 
Ken Winston, Bill Minkler, June Sochatoff, Jo Forsythe. Cob 
Reporters—Barbara Leonard. Pat Maue, Elaine Manueie. Ann 
Dwindle. Dorothy Downing, Mildred Magura, Dave Robert­
son. Mollie Rudy, Delores Prus. Sports Reporters—Edward 
Fei-inbaum, Robert Steiger, Dick Eppler, James Gore. 
Copy Reader—Paul' Carmichael. Art Staff—Joan Brech­
in. Nelson Kelley. Dick Stahl. Pbotographeca—Barbara Toia. 
Dor. Hand. Myron Lewis. Rogei Gregory. Dick Wolfe 
Feature* Staff—Andrew Stedry. Lin Smith, Judy Storch. 
Typist—Elayne Nord. Headline Staff—Van Anderson. Pat 
Naugle, Dan Byers. Copy Runner—Fred Young. Make-Up 
Staff—Ellroy Wildnaber, Don Wildman. Advertising Staff— 
Ronala Creenwa d. Vic Shiry, Mimi Stern, Joan Newman. 
Circulation Staff—Ralph Antonito.
Represented for national advertising oy NATIONAL AD­
VERTISING. Inc.. College Publishers Representative. 420 
Madiifm Ave. New York City Subscription SI-10 per vear 
fcnterea a* second class mattei on October *, 1907, at
the Post Office 'v Pittsburgh. Pa. undei the Act of March 3. 
1879 Accepted for mailing Cv special rate of postage pro­
vided for in the Act of February 28 1925
Member of the ^snociated College Preae.
S ^ Faco/nt'j Dircctov~
To Clea.v~ Op Its Bc?ttl€.v\ed<s
* * * * • «
Editorial2Q
Where’s The Coach?
One obvious fault of the Scotch ’n Soda structure has 
popped up during the television ruckus that has been going 
on for the last few weeks. While the Kiltie band, Cameron 
choir, and all athletics have a coach who is a representative 
of the school rather than the student body, Scotch ’n Soda 
has none and Was consequently at a loss for representation in 
the recent TV hearing. In the period before the War and 
immediately afterwards when mass participation of the 
dramats was allowed, the need for a director was not quite 
so obvious since the students of the theater have a much bet­
ter insight into the problems of directing a large production 
and officials of the drama department handled all relation­
ships with the school.
If the Kiltie Band had been in a similar situation coming 
to a head before one of the faculty advisory committees, the 
director would have been there to carry the case, and his opinion 
would have been fully accepted.
But such was not the case for S’nS. Not one person was 
present at the faculty-committee meeting who knew the com­
plexities of the Club’s operation. One person did make a few 
statements which should have been slightly clarified by 
someone in the ‘know’ before they were accepted. Not one 
mention was made throughout the discussi6n on the effect 
which the staging of a review would have over the staging 
of a book show.
Some have argued that when an activity is under the com­
mand of a faculty director, many of the students lose the privi­
lege of administering the activity. Really, the only duties that 
the student members would be deprived of are those involving 
the detailed relationships with the administration. This is the 
field where student results have been poor, mainly because the 
turnover in students is so fast that no one person has a chance 
to obtain a complete understanding of the varied problems before 
his term is finished. A permanent faculty director would hold 
the position for enough years so that he could develop a basic 
understanding of Scotch ’n Soda. Such a person would naturally 
command more respect from those in the high positions.
There is no need for this job to be a full time task, for 
Scotch ’n Soda could not afford this; but it should be possible 
to find one professor over the Fine Arts college who has 
enough interest in S’nS or musical comedies (or just plain 
working with student« outside of the academic influences) to 
take over the positionr Such a man could insure that nothing 
was being done to ‘ruin Tech’s reputation’* and just keep 
things in line. There was an incident last year when some­
thing popped up in the script the night of dress rehearsal 
(the first time that anyone outside of the student sphere has 
witnessed the performance) that was a little distressing to 
the faculty present. But, it was too late to change the script; 
but a little advi«* earlier would have been heeded and ap­
preciated.
Editor’s Note: While the choice of the word 
'ban’ may have been poor—as supported by Mr. 
Adler’s letter—the idea of a ban is still correct. 
Since the letter to S’nS in 1949, the caliber of 
Scotch ’n Soda has slowly slipped, because a mass 
participation of drama students was no longer jf 
possible. While this was in the best interests of the 
principles of Scotch ’n Soda, since it encouraged 
students from other departments to participate, 
this chance in policy has been noticeable in the 
subsequent productions. Therefore, the article 
should have been worded ‘the ban on mass parti­
cipation by drama students
However, neither one of the preceeding letters 
have mentioned the crux of the argument. The 
point that is still hanging in doubt throughout the 
campus is ‘Why the ban?’ Both Mr. Boettcher and ^ 
Mr. Adler have nicely avoided the present day is­
sue. Mr. Boettcher could have shed some light on 
the TV question since he was instrumental in 
affecting the ban—but he chose instead to direct 
our attention back 4 years. Maybe his ‘conscience* 
compelled him to avoid the issue.
Dormitories
Editor, the Tartan:
While some of your editorials concerning the 0) 
barracks were slightly exaggerated, in general your 
seeming interest in dormitory matters is appre­
ciated.
In connection with the article on vandalism in , 
the dormitories, I would like to tell your readers 
I that a partial solution to the problem is possible. 
The solution is to' let the dorm residents know 
what is wrong. This way, each of them can in­
fluence his fellows to walk the straight and nar­
row.
A recent dormitory meeting which was well at- v. 
tended presented to these residents the various 
offenses which have been committed in the past 
year. Such a meeting should have been called 
sooner but even late' it served its purpose very 
well. A few persons who were not able to eom- 
prehend the moral aspects of right and wrong were 
more able to see the situation from a dollars and 
cents viewpoint. Possible loss of the few advantages 
that dorm students have also impressed a few. 
The improvement in conduct has been quite no­
ticeable. We hope that it won’t be temporary/
I might also mention that all of the damages 
and thefts are not necessarily due to dorm resi­
dents. Many outsiders, known and unknown, visit 
the dormitories. Only, God, the culprits, and pos­
sibly a few investigating the situation know “who­
dunit.”
Keep up your concern over our lot and when 
your interest becomes too noticeably’ “editorial,” 
we’ll let you know.
Sincerely,'
Bob Robl,
. McGill Hall .
Erratum
Due to circumstances beyond our control, to­
day is the first of April. At a consequence, several 
untoward things have happened to the Tartan’s 
makeup and content this week. We therefore ad­
vise that some of the contents of this issue be taken 
with the proverbial grain of salt.
It would be far to much trouble, however, to 
enumerate here which items are serious, and which 
are not, so make your own choices.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, April 1, 1953—CARNEGIE NATRAT—Page S
Tech Wins Volleyball Tournament
Eastern Intercollegiate Volleyball Champs
Representatives of the Plaid which captured the eastern championship at Binghamton, N. Y. last 
week. Sitting, left to right, George Bushey, Kaye Thompson, Roger Cunningham, Bill Boney, Jack Al­
exander, Frank Fegley. Standing, assistant coach, Ray Haynes, Ed Puchy, George Thomas, Ed Pos- 
sesky, Jack Hoover, Boo Richards, and Coach Earl Birdy.
Tartans Slip By Penn State To 
Win 33 rd Straight Title
by Jim Gore
With an amazing display of brain power and finger dexterity 
the CIT poker team out-thought and out-maneuvered their op­
ponents from Penn State to capture the Intercollegiate Poker-playing 
crown for the thirty-third straight year.
The victory in the final game,#-----------------------------------------------------------------
witnessed by nigh onto 20,000 (us­
ing field glasses) culminated a 
great effort by our four card- 
happy representatives. Team cap­
tain “Ace” Inthehole expressed 
the sentiments of the team when 
he commented to this reporter 
following the final hand “Phew— 
time for a beer.”
In the match play preceeding 
the- spectacular finale the Scots 
speedily took Pitt, Ohio State, 
Geneva, and Lehigh foii all they 
were worth. However the Penn 
State match was a hard fought 
one.
Ivan “Deuces Wild” Dropski 
cheated his way to a 500 dollar 
win over Penn State’s “Innocence” 
O’Riley whereby Tech immediate­
ly had an advantage in the best- 
of-seven final. The Plaid also seiz­
ed the next two contests, raking 
in a considerable sum in doing so, 
as Jack Diamond and King 
Shovel, with the aid of three ex­
tra aces, proceeded to tromp their 
opponents.
However the fourth game, which 
decided the championship in 
Tech’s favor was a humdinger. 
Our boy Ace got off to a bad start 
because the judges wouldn’t al­
low him to use his own cards and 
it looked for a while as if he 
would lose his whole bankroll, 5 
G’s. Lady Luck -smiled however 
and when, one of the judges turn­
ed his back to get his glass refilled, 
“Ace” slipped a “Tech” deck into 
play.
With breath-taking suspense the 
game progressed until at a quarter
to five in the morning both men 
were staking all their holdings on 
one hand. The Penn Stater, Sam­
my Playclean, dealt himself a royal 
flush in a cold hand, which is 
quite a feat for even a pro. “Ace” 
found himself holding three treys 
and a pair of queens. .There was 
only one thing to do so Ace did it.
Coughing vigorously he went for 
his handkerchief and having been 
called he put the five aces, which 
hankie contained, on the ta­
ble. Taking advantage of his op­
ponents surprise he swept the win­
nings up and trotted off to receive 
the cherished “Golden Chip,” that 
goes to the victorious team.
Varsity Golf
Candidates for the Varsity 
Golf team should report to 
Mr. Cratsley in Room 12 Gym­
nasium as soon as possible.
Tom Craig Ends 
Varsity Career 
With 367 Points
Tom Craig ended his varsity 
career in fine fashion by scoring 
345 points this season to accumu­
late a 15.7 average and lead the 
Tartan scorers. Kaye Thompson 
was runner-up with 238 points and 
a 10.8 average.
The Scoring _
GFPtsAvg
Craig1298734515.7
Thompson1013623810.8
Mocker68391758.0
Dosey50421426.5
Ackerman2335. 814.5
McGinnis3126884.4
Pottmeyer2718724.2
Jeske3718924.2
Haymes129332.8
Daniels1513432.15
Hay42102.0
Bracken35111.8
Fieler812281.6
Boyd1681.1
Bernath102.7
%nir BOUNCE to the Ounce
mb
MUST BE PERFECT
Eer Pi<ZCdF nm C Q'r.,BrB dnvvC-r *tt 
Fn,i npSb BrrP <S pnnBrB e<..*U Eer 
mi<rSB.F dnmPCS<nSle<P nm nveri Srp.F 
mCii<rB dnur-r mn.kU Jn..Fb lCv<lmF<S- 
mrC.l Cv CS n.Bv<mr -,rlv en,lrU RClF­
-n<S- .r<l,ir (birC kmClv ,Sv<. M twKK) ni 
Z<-nin,l n,vBnni .<mrU or'.. lrSB n,i 
er.Pm,. EuDRR uN•R«%NN• fLT•W 
?© venlr pen mrSv<nS BCvrlU
The Farm on the Hill
Swiftwater 97, Pa.
/ NEW YORK’S BIGGEST EASTER SHOW! *
STARRING THE GREAT "MR. 8" ’
BILLY ECKST1NE 
COUNT BASIE
AND HIS ORCHESTRA
DAVE BRUBECK *
YgTDERE W
• LDMU TfDU 3—2 oRRKW 0•M«! -?
RESERVATIONS Cl 5-5970 63^
Birdy Coached Sextet Sweeps 
Past Field In Binghamton Meet
Carnegie Tech won the 1953 Eastern Volleyball Tournament 
held at Binghamton, N.Y., on March 20 and 21 by compiling the best 
record in round robin play.
The tourney was so set up that each team played every op­
ponent twice. The Tartans com-*------------~------------------------------ “
a 13 and one record in the 
t team affair to win the tro­
phy. Oswega State finished run­
ner-up, winning 12 while losing 
two.
Lose First Game
After completing their 350 mile 
trip, the Tartans were thrown in 
their match against an erstwhile 
contender, Oswego State. They lost 
8-6, and proceeded to win their 
next 13 matches, upending Oswego 
State 8-6, Colgate 8-2, 8-0, Wilkes 
college 8-5, 8-3, Cornell 8-4, 8-3, 
Scranton “A” 8-0, 8-1, Brockport 
State 8-2, 8-1, and Scranton “B” 
8-0, 8-1. They also beat Bingham­
ton State 8-2, 8-4, but these two 
matches were, not counted because 
Binghamton was disqualified.
Representatives of the Plaid 
Members of the winning Tech 
team are Kay Thompson, George 
Bushy, Ed Possessky, Frank Feg­
ley, Jack Hoover, George Ber- 
ringer, George Thomas, Bill Boney, 
and Ed Puchy. Ed Possessky serv­
ed as team captain. Earl Birdy is 
the coach. The standings of the 
competing teams was as follows:
W.L.
Carnegie Tech131
Oswego State122
Cornell95
Brockport86
Colgate77
Wilkes59
Scranton “A”113
Scranton “B”113
At the completion of thistour-
sport, and even hand out volley­
ball scholarships.
A Challenge To Compete
At first, pessimistic coach Birdy 
refused to commit his Tartans 
against this type of opposition, but 
after a series of challenges he con­
sented, seeking “to give the boys 
some experience.”
Tech drew Oswego State in the 
opening round and eliminated 
them 15-7, 15-7. They then sent 
Cooper Union back to New York 
city after a 15-11, 9-12, 15-3 tri­
umph. Prior to this tiff, the con­
fident Cooper Union team captain 
was quoted as saying “these boys 
(Carnegie Tech) might even give 
us a battle.”
Upset Hometowners 
The crowning blow came when 
the Tartans upset the hometown 
New York State Tech sextet, 10- 
12, 17-15, 13-9. Tech lost the lirst 
game and had to come from be­
hind in the second to take the 
match.
Bow To National Champs
The Tartans finally bowed out 
in the championship game, but to 
a worthy foe, Springfield college, 
the national champions eked out 
Tech 15-10, 14-12.
All Tournament Team 
Tech was awarded a second 
place trophy for their efforts and 
Bushey, Thompson, and Boney 
were selected on the all-tourna­
ment team.
nament, the Tartans along with 
Oswego State, were asked to stay 
and compete in the varsity class 
A tournament. This bracket con­
sists of schools that have volley­
ball as their year-round major
Patronize 
Tartan Advertisers
MEN OF '54
TRAINING FOR INDUSTRIAL CAREERS
Opportunities for summer employment in or near your 
home town
National Carbon Company, manufacturer of dry cells and 
flashlights, carbon and graphite electrodes and anodes, im­
pervious graphite, brushes for motors and generators, arc 
carbons and a wide variety of other industrial carbon products 
offers summer employment to ’54 B.S. and M.S. graduates:
GuR%MWEW • fu«WMGMWEW • R•sM•RRDW
GriCm<d • Germ<dC. • G<Z<. • R.rdvi<dC.
MSB,lvi<C. • %rdeCS<dC. • CSB
'1A -iCB,Cvrl <S H,l<Srll TBm<S<lviCv<nS
leading to interesting, rewarding careers following gradua­
tion in research, process and product development, quality 
control, production and methods engineering, sales and sales 
engineering.
Acceptance of summer employment does not imply any obli­
gation on the part of either the Company or the individual 
with respect to permanent position following graduation but 
does provide excellent opportunity for mutual exploration of 
advantages of a career with well established company.
GC.. <S PrilnS ni pi<vr vn
EuR WgfRDM•ER•kR•E
NATIONAL CARBON COMPANY
A DIVISION OF 
gS<nS GCib<Br CSB GCibnS GniPniCv<nS
AT ANY ONE OF THE FOLLOWING LOCATIONS:
CLEVELAND, OHIO 
Cleveland Works 
Edgewater Works 
Madison Ave. at West 117th St. 
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Chemway Rd.
GREENVILLE, N. C.
East 14th & Cotanche Sts. 
ASHEBORO, N. C.
Highway 49 
FREMONT, OHIO 
1501 West State Street 
BENNINGTON. VERMONT 
401 Gage Street
COLUMBIA. TENN.
Santa Fe, Pike
NIAGARA FALLS. NEW YORK 
Elizabeth St. at Buffalo Ave.
FOSTORIA. OHIO 
E Tiffin & Town Streets
ST. ALBANS, VERMONT 
Swanton Rd.
RED OAK, IOWA 
1205 West First St.
CLARKSBURG. WEST VIGINIA Philippi, Pike
WHY NOT DROP IN DURING YOUR 
SPRING VACATION AND GET ACQUAINTED
Products: “Eveready” Flashlights. “Eveready” Dry Batteries. “Prestont 
Anti-freeze, “Trek” Anti-freeze, "Acheson” and •'National’* Electric Fu 
nace Electrodes, “Karbate” Impervious Graphite. “National” Carb< 
Brushes, “National” Projector Carbons and a wide variety of 'Nationa 
Industrial Carbon and Graphite Products for all industry.

---------------------------------------------------

W,mmri Jnbl
—in—
ISRAEL
—for— 
Advanced Professional 
and Technical Students
Jtilv through Sept.
for details write to:
PATWA SUMMER
WORK PROGRAM 
Department C
The Jewish Agency for 
Palestine
16 East 66th Street 
New York 21, New York
Coach Alexander’s 
Wrestlers Seek 
Third Victory
Before a large Intramural night crowd the Rockets soared off 
to an early lead and convincingly trounced a fighting ATO team 
J7-38 to win the school basketball championship. . Shooting with 
amazing accuracy, the Rocket team established a 13-5 lead by the 
end of the first quarter. The fine*“ 
shooting of Marv Verman and the 
aggressive rebounding of Jim Hunt 
and Chet Kolar extended that lead 
to 30-12 at half time.
Fine Outside Shooting 
Defensively the ATO’s game was 
broken up by the accurate shoot­
ing from the outside by the Rock­
ets. In an attempt to limit the in­
side shooting of Jim Miller and 
Bob Duffus, The Rockets set up a 
»one ^defense, switching to a man 
to man when the ball went close 
to the basket.
In the second half the ATO team 
was forced to press in order to at­
tempt to overcome the Rocket 
lead. On the other hand, the Rock­
ets played a slow, sure game rely­
ing on their lead to carry them 
thru. Such a type of play resulted 
in the ATO’s being called for many 
fouls. It was quickly evident that 
the Rockets were managing to 
maintain their lead by matching 
ATO’s field goals with their own 
foul shots. During this brief flurry 
of fouls, Miller, Adams, and Ma­
jor accumulated four fouls apiece
which hindered their play.
ROCKIES , ATO
GF Pts.G FPts.
Devos54 14 Miller3410
Saro20 4 Duffus204
Verman61 13'Cowan4210
Hunt05 5; Adams204
Kolav26 10 Major102
Anaya35 11| Wildhaber022
D’A lies io00 0* Richards000
Flickingar00 0¡Bartocci000
Zuniga00 0 Woolard306
Totals1821 57 Totals15838
IM Board Dotvns 
WAA By 13-16
In a battle of the sexes the IM 
board firmly established the su­
periority of the males by beating 
the WAA at their own game, girl’s 
basketball, 16-13. The first half 
was played under regular girl’s 
rules while the second half saw 
the board donning boxing gloves 
as a compensating handicap.
It was a spirited game with both 
teams showing lots of fight, even 
though the boys possessed the 
gloves. The mere fact that the girls 
did not have the gloves did not 
stop them from firmly hitting the 
boys on several occasions.
• Box Score
Coach Cecil Alexander’s hard 
fighting wrestling team, currently 
sporting a 2-3 record, is hoping to 
defeat the Pitt intramural cham­
pions next Wednesday, and thus 
finish at .500.
Tech’s fine showing in her last 
three matches give good reason 
for optimism next Wednesday. 
Despite injuries and weight dis­
advantage, Carnegie edged out a 
close victory at Shadyside 17-15, 
and then racked up the downtown 
Y 17-3. The team then journeyed 
to the Pitt fieldhouse to give its 
best performance of the year, al­
though losing to the Pitt freshmen 
22-5.
Sole Score
The score isn’t indicative of 
Tech’s showing, since Pitt’s fresh­
men are capable of beating most 
eastern college varsities, and give 
their own varsity (second only to 
Penn State) a good battle. Tech’s 
five points came when Jack Del- 
brook pinned his opponent in two 
minutes, scarcely after the bout 
had started, with the same quar- 
ter-nelson he used 20 seconds be­
fore while getting the takedown.
Pitt took a 10-0 lead with falls 
in the first two bouts, and then 
made it 13-0 with Barrone deci- 
sioning Brussalis before Delbrook’s 
victory put the Plaid back in the 
match.
Protests
After a rough and tumble bat­
tle, Tom Dunckers tied his oppo-
Self Defense
Earl Mendenhall throws his be- 
mitted hands up to protect him­
self from the on-rushing girls, as 
the IM board squeezes (by) WAA.
nent, only "to see the bout awarded 
to Pitt on riding time. To fill a va­
cancy Pitt used their first string 
varsity man, Cook (who had tied 
Penn State’s captain two weeks 
earlier), against Johnny Christen­
son. The bout ended with a 4-0 but 
a hard fought victory for Cook, 
who piled up points early in the 
match, and had all he could do to 
keep Christenson from getting 
them back
The match was climaxed with 
the heavyweight bout, which pit­
ted Tech’s Clyde Stahle (205 lb.) 
against Pitt’s Stowe (230 lb). The 
bout ended in a 1-1 tie, and again 
Pitt was awarded the victory on 
riding time, despite protests rais­
ed by Tech over a time discrep­
ancy and an illegal hold. *
Your I.D. CARD Means15% «ff
EM%R WuNf
• Watch Repairs
• Lighters • Gifts
• Watches • Jewelry
• Identification Bracelets 
3623 FIFTH AVE. - SC 1-7077
(Fifth Avenue at Atwood St.)
J. Paul Sheedy* Switched to Wildroot Cream-Oil 
Because He Flunked The Finger-Nail Test
Hadjis
Farrington
Wilkins
EU well
CohenBalch
Williams
Veleff
Totals
F Pt.
0 6| Aversa .
0 2 Alexander
0 2 Ginnetti
3 3 Goss
0 0 Steiger
0 Oj Sushey 
0 0 Fegley
0 0 Mendenhall
IM Board
G F Pt.
5 3 13 Totals
race «—CARNEGIE NATRAT—Wednesday, April 1, 1953
Patronize 
Tartan Advertisers
Bevo Tallies 37;BTO 
Wins City Tiddley Cup
By Ted Reuther
Last night, before a capacity crowd of 15,000 humans in the 
ultra-modern Carnegie Tech field house, little Guglielmo’s own 
Beta Theta Omega fraternity (representing Carnegie Tech) com-
pletely outclassed all opposition to 
winks tourney. <
The BTO championship intra­
mural team, paced by Bevo 
(Frankie), who tallied 37 points, 
brought the greatly coverted Tid­
dley cup back to CIT after 15 
years at Pitt. Play in square spar­
row elimination tourney began, as 
everyone expected. (This is the 
usi|^l procedure in athletic events 
—in fact it is usually the proced­
ure in all events.)
Editors Note: In case the read­
er is not familiar with the game 
tiddley winks, it is played as fol­
lows: In a manner similar to foot­
ball, basketball, etc. Action begins 
in the first canto; proceeds to the 
second stanza; after which follows 
the third frame; with competition 
finally ending in the fourth and 
final checker. \
Bevo Outscores Cricketts 
Bevo gave the Tartans an early 
lead by tipping three in the high 
scoring five point cup. This cup is 
surrounded by four one point 
cups. Coasting on this lead, the 
Scotties matched the Panthers of 
Pit point for point; however, Du- 
kane, led by all-district Ricardo 
Cricketts (just what district is not 
known) gave quite a scare to 
Tech.
Tartans Filled With Scotch 
The slight shock filled the Tar-
cop the greater Pittsburgh tiddley -
tan tiddley-winksteers (analogous 
to basketeers) with a true Scotch 
spirit and they went on to take 
number one spot. Dukane follow­
ed to cop second, while Pit copped 
(one of sportwriter’s many over­
used words) third place.
Leading Scorers
Six-four Larry Settle, PiKA, led 
the intramural scoring parade this 
year with 169 points. He was fol­
lowed by Frank Fegley and Jack 
Kane of Beta Theta Pi, and Dick 
Dick of the Obelisks. Playoff
games were included in the scor­
ing. *
PlayerGFPts.Settle, PiKA6931169Fegley, BTP5441149Kane, BTP5527137Dick, Obi.5119121Gillette, Bag.4723117Carter, KS4721115O’Reilly, DU4718112Hunt, Rock.4326112Howard, PiKA4812108Whan, Grad.4419107Groesch, PK4810106Johnson, Hill.506106Miller, ATO4318104Duffus. ATO4416104DeVinney, Dem.4219103French, Sek,4118100Blank, NC411698Finn, DU381197Kolar, Rock.251996
Rockets Trounce ATO 57-38 
To Take IM Championship
Devos And Verman Pace Scorers As Sisca Kids Romp; 
IM Board Outclasses WAA Girls In Preliminary
So. Harr» HM RJ„ WtUtmmtviUe,N. V. 
Wildroot Company, Inc., Buffalo 11, N. Y.
How to bring on Spring Fervor
by Jack Alexander
Actually, you slip it on, because the 
weaker sex has a strong yen for the 
man in a Manhattan stpeMlkn sport- 
shirt. This good-looking gabardine 
is deftly tailored — styled as only 
Manhattan can style it with pick- 
stitching on collar and pockets. 
Available in a wide range of smart 
colors, equally handsome with or 
without a tie.
POOR PAUL felt down under when his girl »aid, "Your sloppy hair kangaruin* 
our friendship. Never pouch your arms around me again until you high tail it to 
a toilet goods counter for some Wildroot Cream-Oil. Contains Lanolin. Non- 
alcholic. Relieve* annoying dryness. Removes loose, ugly 
dandruff. Grooms the hair. Helps you pass the Finger-Nail 
Test. Get it or you’ll kangaroo the day!” Sheedy tried Wildroot 
Cream-Oil and now all the girls are hopped up about him.
Better reach in your pocket for 29? and buy Wildroot Cream- 
Oil in either bottle or tube. You kangaiong cause it puts real 
punch into your social life. Ask for it on your hair at any 
barber shop too, and get a jump ahead of all the othlr guys!

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, Aprii 1, 1953—CARNEGIE NATRAT—Page 1
\ \CARNEG^//
All who are interested in help­
ing with the decorations for the 
Springtime dance are asked to re­
port to Thistle hall on Saturday, 
April 11, at noon.
Anyone who still wishes to sell 
tickets for the dance can procure 
them at Mr. McKelway’s office. 
Remember, each ticket you sell 
brings you a half point closer to­
wards your Insignia award.
Floyd Byers, engineering ban­
quet chairman, has promised a 
much better floor show than last 
year.
Tickets for the banquet can also 
be obtained at Mr. McKelway’s 
office.
Don’t forget—for fun and prizes 
galore, come to the Engineer’s 
banquet at the Georgian room of 
Hotel Webster Hall, Saturday, 
May 2, 1953.
Page edited by Evening School Students of the Carnegie Insti­
tute of Technology. *
Editor ............................................................................................................ Victor Sabol
Reporters.............Anna Mae Legosh, Irma Mascaro, Margaret Schaefer,
George Schussler.
Charlie Keller, Leader 
About Evening School¦pl^ce- : Thiszte faall 
nwe ; g.'io'riil a:oopi 
adrntSiwn- t.7S-per eoa
oncfy&szAß
ever a ove welcome
No Plaid
There will be no issue of the 
Plaid next week due to the 
Easter vacation. The ¦ next 
issue will be April 14.
«¿iS#!"«****** 
piana VUtàycrsi,hinV°*
Charlie Keller
Busy Evening Student
Charlie’s hign scholastic standing. 
He proudly sports a Tau Beta Pi 
key and a Pi Tau Sigma pin. 
While here at Tech he had also 
served as president of Sigma Delta 
Phi, evening social fraternity. 
Worked As Laborer 
During depression, Charlie 
worked as a laborer. While doing 
so, he realized the value of an e<fc- 
ucation and his scholarship awards 
show that he has proved himself. 
Until last month, he was employ­
ed as a project engineer at Firth
CSB LgGKMRW 
ETWER HREERD!
Cleaner, Fresher, Smoother!
Ask yourself this question: Why do I smoke?
You know, yourself, you smoke for enjoyment. 
And you get enjoyment only from the taste of a 
cigarette.
Luckies taste better—cleaner, fresher, smoother! 
Why? Luckies are made better to taste better. And, 
what’s more, Luckies are made of fine, tobacco. 
L.S./M.F.T.—Lucky Strike Means Fine Tobacco.
So, for the thing you want most in a cigarette... 
for better taste—for the cleaner, fresher, smoother 
taste of Lucky Strike ...
Be Happy-OO LUCKY!
atR tUCKUS
SURVEY
. actual student« 
c reveals mo 
eanyc*erc^e<
u<*y strike 8a”Sieges than 
^*nds combined.
I STUDtNTS
NM»ON-*'
le survey base
n go leading 
Lucres
DnFC. fnivC b.* en.B' mvQQ nmm<d<C. oni.B'Q 
fnivCb.r WPnnB GeCmP<nSle<P C* QenpQ 
MS veC d,iirSv oni.B'l C.mCSCdU
See it Here•••
Terms as low as SJ.25 Weekly
LNDE fMEE
TYPEWRITER CO.
644 Liberty Avenue 
AT 1-8320
— SUPPLIES — 
REPAIRS — RENTALS
Nation-^1“
terviews « 
smokers pi
by a wide 
taste. Sur 
far more
tioti’s tw<

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—CARNEGIE NATRAT—Wednesday, April 1, 1953
First and Only Premium Quality Cigarette in Both 
Regular and King-Size “~i ~T.."
CONTAINS TOBACCOS OF BETTER QUALITY AND HIGHER 
PRICE THAN ANY OTHER KING-SIZE CIGARETTE
be commended. From one efficient 
basic construction, an unbeliev­
able minimum of stage changing 
provides a range from throne
bit too hard in this portrayal. 
When the climatic duel between 
Hotspur and Prince Henry is over^ 
the audience should feel a larger 
sense of loss than it does.
Gerald TerJheyden as the flexi­
ble rogue, FalstafT, enriches the 
audience by acquainting them 
with one of the bard’s most cap­
tivating characters. Though the 
role of the comedian is probably 
easier to portray than the heav- j 
ier ones, he does an excellent job j 
and nearly steals the show while !
Chapel
Easter Chapel this year will 
feature Cameron choir, who 
have planned a special music­
al program. Chapel will be 
held at 11:30 a.m. on March 
31 in the Little theater.
GRWE HLgR DMksR LM•RW %«c/ RWE WgfgDHR! \y j
LRW HgWRW WN•E f'u) A
GN%LNDETHLR \!
LRW kDM5RDW WN•E V/, /5
GNgDERNgW F' 5F
LRW WGuRkgLRW WN•E 5 '
LDRYgR•E UU U RE
LRW LTDRW WN•E LNob EDÈW LNo
WRD5M•s %TD«LT•kb NuMNb fR••W«L5T•MTb 
5MDsM•MT T•k oRWE 5MDsM•MT LDN%
Liberty Ave. at Grant St., Pittsburgh, Pa. CO :
Rehearsals stretch out, 
for the big Glee Club
tour is ahead. Work and worry call 
for a pause—so, relax ...
refresh with ice-cold Coke.
HNEELRk g•kRD TgEuNDME« NL EuR GNGTyGNLT GN%fT•« H«
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF PITTSBURGH
5722 Center Avenue 
'Coke” is a registered trade-mark.
Hlland tycKtt 
© tI1Ob EuR GNGTyGNLT GN%fT•«
MUCH MILDER
K1NÖ-SIZ6 m
J A RIT TER
Drama—
[Continued from page 1]
winning the admiration of the 
audience.
Effective Illusions
The pliancy of the staging is to
room to barroom and robbery hill 
to plains of battle. Yet all manage 
to provide sufficient foundation
for imagination to readily fill any 
small gaps. The costumes, sound, 
and light!rg contribute^ by well
providing the required illusions 
and effects to make this a success­
ful production.
