• Religious right takes over America.
See page 8.
• Men’s Tartans soccer shuts out Rochester.
See page 11.
• Sarah Weddington speaks in Skibo Ballroom.Inside See page L2.
pi . _ _ • Mazda sponsors art contest.
........-.....a
Diversions...................................LUFeatures.....................................LIForum.................................................g; Sports..................................................Calendar......................................L14VoxPopuli................................L13
Due to midsemester break, there* will be no issue of The Tartan next week. We will resume publication October 1 i).
© 1992 Touchstone Pictures 
.-SSen aStcodms PrimP ’O Sister 
Act, Odfr uddv ’O w,ll—2T
This brilliant red. known as vermillion. is the new ofTical color of the Student Senate.
Senate condemns President’s Office
By BRENDAN McFEELY
Tartan News Editor
Last Tuesday evening, Student Senate passed a resolution condemning the actions of the Office of the President for failing to consult with or notify Student Senate regarding the rephrasing of the Statement of Assurance that is placed on Univer­sity documents that leave the school. The State­ment was officially revised as of July 10, as recom­mended by the Human Relations Commission.The addition to the Statement of Assurance reads “While the federal government does con­tinue to exclude gay, lesbians, and bisexuals from receiving ROTC scholarships or serving in the military, ROTC classes on this campus are avail­able to all students."According to Section VIII: Change of the CMU Student Handbook, “before submission to the Presi­dent for approval, any recommended change [in the Statement of Assurance] should be discussed by the appropriate councils of the Faculty Senate, cor. imittees of the Student Senate, and the Faculty
and Student Senates themselves.” Section VIII goes on to say, “At such time as the University is not in session, the President may promulgate poli­cies or regulations but will be responsive to subse­quent suggestions for revision or review when the full campus community is available.”Senate takes issue with the facts that the Office of the President did not contact those members of Student Senate who were in Pittsburgh, and avail­able for consultation over the summer, and had not informed Senate by the second week of classes, according to the resolution.The resolution doeB not single out University President Robert Mehrabian. “It’s unclear who bears responsibility” for the communications break­down between the President’s office and Senate, said Senator Erik Altmann (SCS), but “the ulti­mate responsibility has to lie with the President.” SenatorGregHaverkamp(CIT)saidthathe would have liked Senate to contribute to what he feels are minor changes. “It’s kind of a muted statement that [Mehrabian] doesn’t think that Senate’s im­portant on thiB campus,” said Haverkamp.
hSt•Cd gM5 ’PP•d bTHE TARTAN
1imOdsnd 9dttSO AOnydmPnrßT JnrrPo•ms-5 JdOOPßtyiOni
ald/Tartan Assistant Artcnr
til dawn!
Students overcrowd, 
overuse clusters
RnißrSO !Sud5 SOd SB Sydm *22 edSetd5 oSr- Pr•cdOrP iOc OSO3Pr•cdOrP u-S irrdOcdc r-d WySt•rnSO !iyd ’O 1:6 SO :mnciß 
-r5 ciOpdc tnvd i ePßp-S rS rdp-OS rnCdP unr- pS•OrP SB •e rS —g2 odirP3edm3CtO•rdT LCSvd5 C•Pnp5 iOc edSetd Bnttdc r-d 
BSßdm SB 1:6 BSm Odimtß Pnf -S•mPT 8-d dydOr uiP PeSOPSmdc oß !dpßptdc JmSc•prnSOPT________________________________I___I__________
By JASON TOGYER
Tartan Staffwriter
The two-month-old Computing Ser­vices Division has begun a series of changes designed to better fulfill the campus user community’s needs for com­puting and communications services.One change that can’t be implemented very quickly is increasing the availabil­ity of terminals for student use at peak hours. Gary Aulfinger, manager of Clus­ter Services, said that usage at any point during the beginning of this year was greater than at the peak last year.The clusters are busiest in the evening, said Jonathan Poole, a tutor at Wean 5419. They get crowded “between 8 and 12 pm, especially on nights before big assignments are due.”Some statistics taken last year would seem to bear out Poole’s remarks. A graph printed in tho May 1992 issue of 
Cursor, the campus computing services newsletter, showing the percontago of computers in UCC100 in uso each hour clearly revonled that tho most usage comes at night. By 8 pm, 80 to 90 per­cent of tho DEC stations and Mac II/ IIIcxs aro in uso. One solution to this crowding at night would bo for those people that can tailor their usage to ubo the clusters at non-peak hours, particu­larly in the morning and early aftor- noon, according to Cursor.“More and more classes aro requiring students to use our facilities,” said Aulfinger, “as a reBult more and moro
people need the computers in the clus­ters.”Wallace Colyer, Andrew system man­ager, said in a post to the official.andrew bboard this week, “The PC servers last week saw a new record peak usage of 5208 unique users and 44,184 sessions. In each ofthepast three weeks old usage records have been broken. We antici­pate demand to increase even further as the semester progresses.”Aulfinger said that solving the prob­lem is not as simple as it might seem. The solution is not merely buying more terminals and increasing the space avail­able in the clusters, but identifying which equipment isnolongermeetingtheneeds of the campus community and replacing it.For example, Aulfinger said that tho12 IBM PS/2s in UCC aro in uso •Ree thnn 10 percont of tho time, whilo the Macintosh IIcxs thoro aro in uso 70 per­cent of tho time. One Macintosh li the equvalontofnino or 10 IBM machines in torms of studont utility, according to Aulfinger.“Tho SEs in Baker 140 are used by CSW (Computing Skills Workshop) classos during the day, but at night uro not us usoful as, say, Ilcis," said 
Aulfinger. “By upgradingequipmont, we would add more practicality." Aulfinger stressed that ho would like to ropluco old machinos with nowor, compatible, and moro poworful ones, like replacing older Macs with nower ones.
Plonso soo CLUSTERS, pngo 4
Long-term problems persist in University Computing Center
By KENDRICK CHUA
Tartan Assistant News Editor
I In the past months, occupants of the University Computing Cen­ter (UCC) have had problems with black particulate matter falling outofthe ventilation system. This is not a new problem; the “black dust” has been a part of UCC ever since its construction began in 1983.
Robert Ciminel, Environmen­tal Health & Safety (EH&S) spe­cialist, has been working on iden­tifying the component particles of this dust. A primary analysis by scientists at the Mellon Insti­tute indicates the dust is com­posed primarily of iron and sul­fur, with traces of silicon, chlo­rine and other elements. Accord­ing to Ciminel, the dust is not classifiable under EPA standards as a toxin or even as an irritant.However, according to com­plaints and grievances that have been sporadically posted on the bulletin board org.acs.ucc-discuss since the board was created in January, the dust still seems to be the cause of health problems and aesthetic displeasure among those who work in UCC.
Occupant complaints have been varied. “Over the last two years there were black particles on my
desk and chair every morning when I came to work [in UCC room 173],” said Jack Stein, man­ager of Special Projects. “I would clean it up and the next day black particles would show up. I con­tacted Physical Plant and asked that this be resolved. It took threats of lawsuits and escala­tion to Warner Hall to get at­tention from Physical Plant. They finally replaced the en­tire unit in the ceiling about eight months ago and so far I have had no black particles.”“I’ve been breathing the stuff [black particles] for years,” said Aleecia McDonald, assistant cluster manager in UCC and an H&SS senior. “I get head­aches when I’m in the UCC cluster for too long. I have no proof that there’s a causality involved.” According to reports j from EH&S, other symptoms reported over the years from oc­cupants have included nausea, eye irritation, fatigue, and nu­merous mucous membrane and allergic reactions.According to Volker Hartkopf, director of the Center for Build­ing Performance and Diagnos­tics, UCC was a poorly designed building whose problems were a result of “collective incompe­tence.” Said Hartkopf, “[UCC]
was inappropriately designed, inappropriately integrated, inap­propriately constructed and in­appropriately occupied. It is very costly for the University to do that.” Hartkopf said that $2 mil­lion was spent on retrofitting the building to put in the new air system. He also mentioned a labo-
Institute for Occupational Safety and Health]... huve detected any chemical or physical agents that are related to the people’s symp­toms,” said Collopy. Statistical analysis on 10 years of health data does not positively form any correlation between health prob­lems and the dust particles.
“[UCC] was inappropriately designed, 
inappropriately integrated, inappropri­
ately constructed, and inappropriately 
occupied
— Volker Hartkopf, 
Director of the Center for Building 
Performance and Diagnostics
ratorytest which found an endot­oxin, or dead bacteria, in the air ventilation ducts.According to Peter Collopy, di­rector of EH&S, none of the test­ing done in the past 10 years has conclusively linked the dirt or the other contaminants to any of the health problems. “Neither my group [EH&S], the University of Pittsburgh Occupational Medi­cal Group, [nor]NIOSH [National
According to Robert Douglas, associate director of Mechanical Services, much of the mainte­nance and cleaning has been un­noticed by the occupants. Clean­ing of the ducts, scrubbing of the ceilings and diffusers, and gen­eral maintenance has gone on at night, and moat of the changes in the environmental controls have gone unseen by those not directly involved in custodial work.
A problem with the effective­ness of the changes and the main­tenance is the lack of communi­cation between the occupants of UCC and Physical Plant. Dou­glas said that when complaints did not come into the office, Physi­cal Plant would assume that prob­lems were being properly ad­dressed, which was not always true.Although UCC was not com­pleted until early in 1984, occu­pation of the office space and computing areas began in 1983 in the middle of construction. The building was built for ap­proximately $3 million, and was constructed on a “fasttrack”— that is, construction began be­fore designs were finalized.The building has four levels. Initial designs were based on technology developed in the late 1970s, when energy conserva­tion was fashionable. Therefore, UCC is what is known as “her­metically sealed”; that is, none of the windows can be opened, and the air is circulated exclusively by the ventilation Bystem. Lack of research data in the ’70s led architects and engineers to be­lieve this design safe and more efficient than an open design.Health problems with UCC began as soon as occupation of
the building began. Because of concurrent construction and the hermetically sealed design, fi­brous buildingmaterial and paint and solder fumes were circulated throughout the building, causing headaches and eye irritation. As soon as the building was com­pleted, further health problems including fatigue, nauBea, and drowsiness, were reported by building occupants.At this point, according to a report co-written by Collopy and Michael Hodgson of U. Pitt De­partment of Medicine, a British company was hired by the Uni­versity to identify any contami­nants in the building in general or the air specifically which might be a definite cause ofthese health problems.Because of the lack of knowl­edge about building contami­nants and the scientifically un­sound technology used, the com­pany identified only formalde­hyde as a possible contaminant, and spent an inordinate amount of time and resources surveying occupants and testing air samples for formaldehyde and carbon di­oxide concentration, another fac­tor believed to contribute to health problems. Although the British inspectors collected a great deal 
Please soo UCC, page 5

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 5 October 1992
White House considers military aid to Israel
WASHINGTON, September 28 (DJ) — The Bush adminis­tration, with one eye on domes­tic politics, may give Israel a commitment to continue to sup­port the current $1.8 billion in annual military aid to the Jew­ish state, The Wall Street Jour­
nal reported.Such a commitment wouldn’t be binding on Congress, which allocates such assistance. But Israel has been eagerly seeking a pledge from the White HouBe in order to help it with its long- range military planning.The commitment, which could
be made as early as this week, could take the form of either a public announcement or an ex­change of letterB between the two nations, according to people famil­iar with the discussions.The discussions are part of over­all military talks between the two allieB that resulted in an announce­ment over the weekend that the U.S. would provide Israel with a number of Apache and Black Hawk helicopters and would stock $200 million in U.S. military equipment in Israel. The military equipment would be kept in Israel for use by U.S. troops, or it could be used by
Israel in an emergency with spe­cial permission from the U.S.This pre-poBitioning of military equipment is part of a broad ef­fort to strengthen ties and coop­eration between the two nations and to make good on a U.S. pledge to ensure that Israel maintains its qualitative edge over its Arab adversaries.The assurance recently was reiterated to Israel after the U.S. announced it was selling F-15 fighter aircraft to Saudi Arabia.But the current pace of the talks also have been spurred by U.S. politics, as Bush tries to win fa­
vor with Jewish voters. This pub­lic effort began in August, when President Bush invited Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin to Kennebunkport, Maine, where the two leaders announced that the U.S. would provide Israel with $10 billion in loan guarantees to help Israel absorb Jewish immi­grants from the former Soviet Union. Previously, the adminis­tration had clashed bitterly with former Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir and had refused to offer the assistance unless Is­rael agreed to halt building settle­ments in the occupied West Bank
and Gaza Strip.Rabin’s more moderate govern­ment has ceased much of the settlements construction and is making more forthcoming efforts to push ahead with Arab-Israeli peace talks. Congress earlier had authorized legislation that would allow the U.S. to keep $200 mil­lion more in equipment in Israel. The U.S. already has $100 mil­lion in equipment stocked in Is­rael. The undisclosed number of Apaches and Black Hawks are being provided under 1990 legis­lation that permits Israel to ob­tain as much as $700 million in
U.S. weaponry in Europe that is no longer needed there because of the end of the Cold War.In the broad talks between;Is- rael and the U.S., other topics, under discussion include: work­ing out programs that woi$$ ré: suit in closer ties between,the- two nations’ militaries; discus­sions of cooperation on techno­logical upgrading of equipment; and how to tie Israel into a Global Protection System, under whiclv the U.S. and Russia are tiyiiig to establish a world-wide ,early warning system that would de­tect ballistic missile attacks.Senate overrides abortion veto
WASHINGTON, October 1 (AP) — The Senate voted today to override President Bush’s veto of a bill striking down his limits on abortion counseling at federally financed clinics.The action, amid the final push toward adjournment of the 102nd Congress, sends the debate over the so-called “gag rule” back to the HouBe, where in the past it has sustained the President on the issue. The Senate acted on the day when the Bush administration began implementing its long-debated rules barring any workers other than doctors in federally funded family-planning clinics to counsel women about abortion.The vote was 73-26 to override the veto. Supporters had seven voteB more than the two-thirds majority necessary to override.The Senate took the vote without debate. But critics said Bush
Presidential debates 
to begin October 11
WASHINGTON, October 2 (AP) — President Bush and Gov. Bill Clinton would hold three high-stakesPresidential debates within the space of nine days beginning October 11 un­der a tentative schedule worked out by aides, a source familiar with the talks said today.Ross Perot would be invited to participate.The source, who spoke on con­dition of anonymity, also said the debate schedule envisions ono vice presidential debate involving Vice President Dan Qunyle; his Democratic rival, Son. A1 Gore, and Perot’s ticket- mato, retired Adm. James Stockdale.The dotails of the oncountors remain to bo negotiated, tho sourco said, includingtho sitoa,
sponsorship, and precise times.The first debate would be held October 11, followed by a vice presidential encounter, then two morePresidential confron­tations, with the final one on the 19th, the source said.Clinton holds a double-digit lend in the polls, but the proB- pect of a condensed debate schedule alongwith Perot’s for­mal entry into the race and a three-way multi-million dollar advertising war setB the stage for a tumultuous final month of campaigning.The detailB of the debate plan emerged as Bush, in an inter­view on ABC’s Good Morning 
America, saidPerot would have to follow up with details after his announcement that he was joining the race.
News briefs courtesy Dow Jones, Inc.Layout by Brendan McFcely
had allowed his opposition to abortion in nearly all circumstances to become entangled with public health issues.Bush’s perfect record of making vetoes stick remained intact, however, after the House yesterday easily sustained his veto of the family leave bill.The gag rule was imposed by the administration to prevent federally financed family planning clinics from offering counsel­ing to women, most of them poor, on abortion.A Senate vote to sustain his veto would remove the last legisla­tive obstacle, and the administration planned to begin imple­menting the rules today.Groups opposed to the rule challenged it in federal court, although previous attempts failed in the Supreme Court.Senate balks on 
Bush’s education bill
WASHINGTON, October 2 (AP) — The Senate today killed legislation that had been stripped of President Bush’s plan to pro­vide public aid for private schools in favor of a school-choice ap­proach similar to one offered by Democratic presidential candi­date, Bill Clinton.On a 59-40 vote, the Senate failed to break a filibuster on leg­islation that calls for federal fund- ingfor schools that want to imple­ment various new programs to boost student academic perfor­mance.The cloture vote required 60 votes to carry and a defeat effec­tively killed the bill for the year. A key provision in the defeated education bill would have allowed school districts to apply for grants for public school choice.That is, parents would be al­lowed to send their children to the public schools of their choice. This idea closely parallels a key education initiative of Clinton.
Sen. Nancy Kassebaum (R- Kan.) said, “This bill is not the right thing to do for education and may, in fact, stifle true ef­forts to improve learning.”Bush favors giving vouchers to parents who could then use the funds for tuition at the school of their choice, including private or parochial institutions. The issue of private school choice has been a centerpiece of Bush’s campaign- year legislative initiatives.House Democrats, in approv­ing the bill earlier this week, re­jected a move by Republicans to force adoption of Bush’s educa­tion priority. “This is a strong bill that will take important steps to improve our schools,” said Sen. Edward Kennedy (D-Mass.) “The bill provides for national educa­tion goals, the establishment of voluntary national education standards, the development of model national assessments, and regulatory flexibility initiatives for local schools.”
Analysts weigh 
Perot’s chances
WASHINGTON, September 28 (DJ) — Ross Perot is just where he wants to be in the final weeks before Election Day —- at center stage — even though he has virtually no chance to win the Presidency.
The Wall Street Journal re­ports that right now the peri­patetic Texas billionaire is rel­ishing the attention of the na­tion. Today he and his volun­teers are to hold a series of meetings in Dallas, with repre­sentatives of the two major- party candidates visiting, hats in hand, appeals at the ready.But increasingly, Perot’s big tease over plunging back into the political waters he so roiled with his abortive Presidential race this spring looks more like an ego-driven attempt to save face than an effort to save the nation.No mainstream political ana­lyst believes that Perot can win the race. In early July, before he quit the race, Perot led the Presidential field with support of 33% of the voters, according to the Wall Street JournallNBC News poll.But in the most recent Jour­
nal/NBC poll, he was a distant third, though still with a re­spectable 18 percent. At best, his re-entry now can only skew the vote, or allow him to play the kind of spoiler role he said upon leaving the race in July that he so wanted to avoid.“He’s living in a fantasy
world,” says Linda DiVall, a Republican political pollster. “He had a lot of trust that he absolutely destroyed. To think he can come back now is" delusionary.”Despite all the mystery and' ballyhoo leading up to fhis' week’s decision, there is stjilf.a minority view that Perot won’t run. Even if he doesn’t run, he' and his interim vice presiden­tial nominee, Adm. James' Stockdale, a former Vietnam prisoner of war, will still be on all 50 ballots.But if, as expected, he floes run, Perot will throw the race into upheaval five weeks be­fore Election Day, with an .un­certain impact.At first blush, a renewed Perot candidacy would appear to be a blow to Gov. Bill Clinton, who is enjoying a lead of 10 to 15 percentage points innational polls, and who on a state-by- state basis is well ahead.Inmany places where therace is not close, Perot’s re-entry; would make it competitiveeven though he still could take more support fromBush than Clinton in some Southern state^(£pd‘ especially in Texas.But in a broader strategic sense, it is conceivable that' Perot could cause even more' problems forthe President. His” focus would be on the economy, and the more voters concen-' trate on that issue the worse it' is for Bush.
Celebrate Tradition
WV«ha ßaJfour
Class Ring!
College memories can last a lifetime when 
they're preserved in a Balfour Class Ring,
Sports, academics, degrees, years of graduation, 
and custom school designs can all be captured 
in your Balfour Class Ring ... a tradition of 
excellence since 1931!
Order yours on:
Thursday, Oct. 15..............Baker Hall, 10 am - 3 pm
Friday, Oct. 16.......................The Carnegie Shoppe, 10 am - 3 pm
Saturday, Oct. 17.............The Carnegie Shoppe, 10 am - 1 pm
A $35 deposit is required.
Balfour, No one remembers in so manyways.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan * Carnegie Mellon • 5 October 19923
Student Senate Minutes
STUDENT
SENATE
ggoouu
Minutes of 29 September 1992
Boll was taken at 7 pm. Meet­ing was called to order at 7:15 
pm. "J
Senators Present: Albert (CFAJ,0 Altmann (SCS), DeRoss (MCSX' Dean (IM), Engel (CIT), Fadl (M.atL.), Halvaksz (HSS), Haverkamp (CIT), Holzman (CIT), Kline (CIT), Knauer(HSS), Knight'(MCS), Loomis (GSIA), McGarvey (IM), Martin (HSS), j Potthast (HSS), Robe (GSIA),; Singh (CFA), Spaulding (CFA), Tomblyn (MCS), Wallhausen (M.atL.).
Senators Absent: Gaspari (CFA), Shah (M.atL.).
Approval of the Minutes:Corrections:The Ex-Officio from GSO wasisidentified. Her name is Laraolfson.In Special Business, there was a motion to vote to table.In Campus Affairs report, let­ters will be sent to all depart­ments regarding suggestions from Food for Thought.In F&R report, strike the sen­tence [Voices United Gospel Choir] will become nonfunded 
soon.The Human Resources report was adttially part of the Public Relations report.Strike the first two sentences of the SDC report. They were merely answers to questions posed to the SDC representative and not actually part of her re­port.;The minutes were accepted by the Chair.
¡Special Business:
'ffonfuhdedRecognition: Karate Club.M n the eyes of the Chair, it
lAudience Participation:ITamal Mukherjee from the Human Relations Commision ex­pressed his disappointment in the Senate’s attitude toward allocat­ing money to the International Festival.•David O’Brian, the assistant director of Community Housing, is organizing a committee which would control the information appearing on the lists of avail­able off-campus housing.
¡Committee Reports:
Academic Affairs (Michael 
Tomblyn): We talked about amendments to the resolution on the Statement of Assurance at today's meeting. This will be dis­cussed further in Old Business.
Campus Affairs (Erik 
Altmann): Thanks to The Tar­tan for publishing the smoking resolution last week. Further dis­tinction was made between Sen- ate-recognizedorganizations and nonrecognized organizations (such as SDC and the Greeks) as relevant to the smoking resolu­tion. Food for Thought responses are being categorized and will be sent shortly. The drinking age resolution will be discussed in New Business.
Funding and Recognition 
(Michael Loomis): There was no meeting last week. Voices United Gospel Choir will be dis­cussed next Tuesday. Senate will buy a computer with an advance from Student Affairs; this will be paid back with the insurance money from the stolen computer. There will be a meeting Wednes­day with groups regarding bud­gets. The following groups are scheduled for discussion: SEAC, ALLIES, Forbes Gallery, Bicycle Club, Writer’s Guild, Women’s Center, Clinton/Gore ’92, Oak­land Review.
Human Resources/ Public 
Relations (Shawn Knight):There was a full page ad in The Tartan last week about Food for Thought. There will be a small ad next week regarding petitions for the available Senate seats. There is a new way to get in touch with Senate - through a drop box on the Skibo server. This will be mentioned in The Tartan ad. PR met at 6:30 pm tonight. Thank you to Student Affairs for lending the money for the new computer.
Rules (Greg Haverkamp):We met Thursday with the Con­stitution committee and went over the new bylaws that we’re working on. We’ll have them out for Senate in October.
Ex-OfHcio Reports:
AB (Brain Papa): The Amaz­ing Jonathan was sold out. Sarah Weddington will speak Friday on 
Roe vs. Wade; she’ll speak Satur­day at the Skills for Leadership workshop.
SDC (Amy Potthast): Home­coming is October 17; tickets for the Clippership Cruise go on sale Thursday. The Properties Com­
mittee is shopping for televisions and VCRs. The SDC film is Fried 
Green Tomatoes Saturday at 7, 9:30 pm and 12 am. Chris Stengel was appointed to the National Executive Committee. Wo are planning a trip to Kent State for late November.
Greek Council (Chris 
Bareford): No report.
GSO (Lara Wolfson):Thenew name of the coffeehouse is the Liquid Sky Cafe. There will be a GSO meeting October 1 at 5:30 pm in the Liquid Sky Cafe. There will be a one day retreat for women faculty, grad students, and undergrad seniors on Octo- berlO. Call x6995 for more infor­mation. At the GSO meeting, we will discuss the issue of how Ac­tivities Fees are split between Senate and GSO. ExComm (GSO) will recommend formation of joint GSO/Senate committee to inves­tigate.
Faculty Senate (Dean 
Murphy): At the USAC meeting we discussed housing. USAC meets the first Thursday of every month. Agenda items are due the previous Thursday. Most meet­ings will be closed, but the Chairs will take requests for people to sit in on individual meetings. Agen­das will be pre-announced.
Student Affairs (Tim Fos­
ter): Skills for Leadership is this Saturday. Parents Weekend is coming up — an outline of activi­ties was passed out. Lisa Lipscomb is the coordinator of Parents Weekend. Seven head orientation counselors have al­ready been selected.
President (Natalie Ges- 
mond): Read by Matt McGarvey. There will be a social gathering for the Mentor Program this weekend.
Treasurer (Jay Laefer): Voices United Gospel Choir dis­cussion will be next week. If there are any questions about it, ask before next Tuesday.
Chair (Matt McGarvey): Res­ignation of Amit Shah, a member at large, due to academic pres­sure. Shah sends his apologies and thanks to Senate.
Old Business:Academic Affairsmade amend­ments to the resolution of the StatementofAssurance. Changes were as follows:
Everywhere in the resolution
whoro it said President Meh- rabian, was changed to the Office 
of the President.
Deletion of the following para­graph in entirety:
“Whereas, of all the university regulations to be amended, not one is as important os or affects as many members of the campus community as our Statement of Assurance, and”
Altmann moved to limit debate to five minutes. In the eyes of the Chair it passed.
Vote on the passage of the reso­lution as a whole, with amend­ments passed 10-7-2.
New Business:
Altmann brought the drinking age resolution to Senate. Discus­sion ensued. Senator Knauer moved to postpone indefinitely discussion ofthis resolution. Vote failed 4-11-4. Discussion contin­ued.Holzman motioned to table dis­cussion. Vote tied 9-9-1. The vote of the Chair failed this motion.The resolution reads as follows:Whereas the 21 year-old drink- ingage violates the principle that all adults aro equal before the law, andWhereas the 21 year-old drink­ing age has not proven effective, andWhereas the 21 year-old drink­ing age causes many young adults to resort to illegal methods in order to participate in the social life they desire, andWhereas minimum drinking ages were historically left to the States to decide, without federal interference,Resolved that this legislature urges both Governor Bill Clinton and President George Bush to consider this issue and to pub­licly pledge to work for the repeal of Section 158 of the Surface Transportation Assistance Act of 1984*, and thereby return full control over minimum drinking ages to State governments, andResolved that this resolution will be mailed to the Clinton and Bush Presidential campaigns to arrive as closely to October 20, 1992 as possible.* Public Law 98-363 (July 17, 1984) reads in part:Section 158. National mini­mum drinking age.
(a)(2) The Secretary shall withhold 10 per centum of the amount [of federal highway funds] required to be apportioned
to any Stato... on the first dny of the fiscal year succooding the sec­ond fiscal yoar beginning aftor Soptombor 30,1985, in which the purchaso or public posBossion in such State of any alcoholic bovor- age by a person who is less than twenty-one years of age.Vote on the resolution in its entirety passes 12-7-0.
Knauer nominated Laura Rempel as a member at large form HSS. Motion was accepted by acclamation.Halvaksz moved to make the official Senate color puce. This motion was amended to make the official color periwinkle. This motion failed.This motion was further amended to make the official color Vermillion. The motion with amendment went to vote and passed 13-2-2.Loomis called for a role call vote. Roll call vote passed 7-5-7. The results were as follows:Albert (abstain), Altmann (nay), DeRoss (abstain), Dean (nay), Engel (nay), Evans (ab­stain), Halvaksz (yea), Haver­kamp (yea), Holzman (yea), Kline (nay), Knauer (abstain), Knight (abstain), Loomis (yea), Martin (nay), Potthast (yea), Robe (yea), Singh (abstain), Spaulding (ab­
stain), Tomblyn (yen).
Points of Discussion:Tho following issuos woro dis- cussod: opinions on votos on tonight’s issuos; smoking resolu­tion; how Senate posses resolu­tions; poster policy; funding of the Latin American Festival; Food for Thought recommenda­tions; excessivejunk mail through campus mail; Senate vacancies.
Announcements:
Office hours for Burt Holzman are Thursday 6-8 pm in the Sen­ate office.ALLIES meets Thursday at 4:30 pm in the West Wing rec room.CMU for Clinton met tonight. Check assocs.clinton-gore-92 for details.No petitions were turned in. Petitions will be accepted on a first-come, first-served basis.There is one new vacancy in CIT.The meeting was adjourned at 9:20 pm.
Submitted by 
NAOMI BERNER 
Edited By 
KENDRICK CHUA
Correction.
The Tartan corredi all knoum|irrora of fact. Ifyon hnow of 
such an error, contact Tartan Editor-in-Chicf lividi lloovcr 
atx2111, or write hcr in care ofThe Tartan, Skibo 50.
Air Force ROTC Units 
Filled to Capacity
NOT!
Don’t believe everything you hear. The Air Force 
continues to seek outstanding students to fill future 
officer requirements. See yourself becoming a leader, 
graduating from college as an Air Force officer with fully 
developed qualities of character and managerial ability. 
Notice, too, the opportunities. Like eligibility for 
scholarship programs that can pay tuition, textbooks, 
fees... even $100 in tax-free income each academic 
month.
Visualize a crisp uniform that reflects pride in yourself 
and your ability to accept challenge. Get the picture? 
Now make a call!
268-8747 
6’9 ,’a,36’! :F!1WYOU
can call and talk to PresidentMehrabian
When : Tuesday October 6,1992 at 5 pm 
Where : Live on WRCT 88.3 FM

---------------------------------------------------

4The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 5 October 1992
Crime and Incident ReportCrowded clusters pose user problems9/25 INSTITUTIONAL VAN­
DALISM, 2:12 am. CampuB Po­
lice received a call stating that 
someone had painted the CFA 
elevator with possibly offensive 
art. The report was confirmed by 
an officer, and Physical Plant was 
notified.
9/25 MEDICAL, 2:34 pm. A 
student who had been cutting 
wood with a circular saw in the 
basement of Margaret Morrison 
was transported to Eye and Ear 
Hospital for irritation in his left 
eye due to sawdust. The student, 
who was working on a prop for an 
upcoming Scotch ‘n’ Soda play, 
was not wearing safety glasses.
9/25 LIQUOR LAW VIOLA­
TION, 5:11 pm. Campus Police 
issued a citation to a CMU frater­
nity for outside alcohol after of­
ficers, responding to a complaint, 
arrived to find several individu­
als on the porch with bottles of 
whiskey and beer.
9/25 MEDICAL CALL, 7:33 
pm. Campus Police responded to 
a report that an elderly woman 
had fallen from the top of the 
stairs by the Margaret Morrison 
apartments. The victim was found 
in a sitting position with a nose­
bleed, and complaining of a sore 
right knee. The victim’s niece was 
present, and told officers that her 
aunt had tripped on an uneven 
section of sidewalk. The victim 
was transported to Shadyside 
Hospital.
9/25 DISORDERLY CON­
DUCT, 10:40 pm. While on rou­
tine patrol, an officer observed a 
large group congregating in front 
of a CMU fraternity. Suddenly, 
several members of the crowd 
started arguing and throwing 
items at the fraternity house. At 
this time, the officer approached 
the house and the group dis­
persed. Upon talking to the presi­
dent of the fraternity, the officer 
learned that the attacking group 
was comprised of the members 
and pledges of another CMU fra­
ternity. The fraternity president 
also informed the officor that the 
exchange was an annual event 
botween both fraternities and 
that Student Affairs had been 
informed ahead of time.
9/26 MEDICAL-INTOXICA- 
TION, 12:19 am. Campus Police 
received a call from a CMU fra­
ternity stating that a brother had 
boon unconscious since 9:30 pm 
that ovoning, and had doveloped 
tho shakes and also had a bluish 
tono to his comploxion. The vic­
tim, according to another frater­
nity brother, had been drinking« 
combination of scotch and wine 
throughout tho evening up until 
ho had passed out. Tho victim 
was transported to Presbyterian 
Hospital in a City Medic unit.
9/26 MEDICAL, 10:16 am. A 
medical escort was provided to a 
CMU student who was experi­
encing a high fever. The student 
had been seen at Health Services 
and was told to seek medical at­
tention if the condition worsened. 
The student was transported to 
Shadyside Hospital at her re­
quest.
9/26 OUTSIDE ALCOHOL,
7:42 pm. Campus Police issued a 
citation for outside alcohol to a 
CMU sorority after officers, re­
sponding to a complaint, arrived 
to find a group of twenty sisters 
in possession of wine. The sisters 
had been chanting i n a circle when 
the officers arrived.
9/26 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF, 
11:29 pm. Campus Police re­
sponded to a call for assistance 
for an intoxicated individual in 
the lobby of Resnik Hall. The 
arriving officer observed the in­
dividual along with the RA who 
had placed thecall. The individual 
was attempting to hide his iden­
tity by providing fictitious names. 
The individual, who had no ID in 
his posession, eventually gave the 
officer his real name. The RA 
said that he had been walking 
along Margaret Morrison Street 
with another RA when he heard 
glass breaking near Hamerschlag 
House. The RAs then proceeded 
to the area and observed glass 
bottles being thrown out of the 
stairwell windows, between the 
second and third floors. Upon 
entering Hamerschlag House, the 
RAs observed the student dis­
charge a fire extinguisher in the 
A-tower stairwell. The student 
was in the company of two un­
known males who fled. The stu­
dent also fled, but was appre­
hended in Resnik Hall. The stu­
dent was told that he would be 
issued a citation.
9/28 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF, 
6:46 am. Campus Police received 
a report of damage done to the 
condom machine in the women’s 
rest room on the first floor of 
West Wing. The machine had 
been pryed open and all its con­
tents and money removed.
9/28 MEDICAL, 2:39 pm. As a 
result of a collision incurred dur­
ing an IM football game, a stu­
dent was rendered unconscious. 
The student, who had a history of 
seizures, was transported to Pres­
byterian Hospital.
9/28 MEDICAL CALL, 4:57 
pm. A modical escort was pro­
vided for a CMU student who h ad 
been treated for bronchitis two 
weeks ago and was feeling ill 
again. The student was trans­
ported to Presbyterian Hospital.
9/28 MEDICAL ESCORT, 
1:45 am. Campus Police received 
a report of a student lying on the
floor in BH 155, who was on his 
side vomiting. The victim had 
been in BH 140 and had begun to 
feel extremely dizzy. He then ex­
ited BH 140 and got as far as the 
hallway before getting sick. After 
a short time, the victim felt well 
enough to be transported back to 
his residence hall. A short while 
after that, the victim called Cam­
pus Police and requested trans­
port to a medical facility. He was 
then transported to the Presby­
terian Hospital Emergency Room.
9/28 DEFIANT TRESPASS, 
3:23 pm. Campus Police received 
a report of an unidentified male 
looking into cars at the rear of a 
CMU fraternity. The man was 
stopped on Morewood Ave. Upon 
being stopped, the man stated 
that he was lost and was looking 
for Montifiore Hospital, because 
his father was sick and he was 
going to go see him. The man 
then said that he was in the fra­
ternity house to ask directions to 
Skibo Hall, so he could call his 
father. A check of the vehicles 
around the area found that none 
appeared to have been tampered 
with. The man was issued a cita­
tion for defiant trespass.
9/28 MEDICAL CALL, 9:28 
pm. A CMU student was given a 
medical escort for a laceration. 
The laceration, which was above 
the student’s left eye, was in­
curred while playing football in 
the hallway of Morewood Gar­
dens E-Tower sixth floor. The lac­
eration was incurred when the 
student, while attempting to 
catch the ball, ran into one of the 
wall mounted hallway lights. The 
student was transported to Pres­
byterian Hospital Emergency 
Room.
9/29 THEFT, 11:01 am. Cam­
pus Police responded to a report 
of the theft of a French citizen’s 
passport at Hunt Library. The 
passport was inside a backpack. 
Nothing else was stolen.
9/29 THEFT, 12:50 pm. Cam­
pus Police responded to a report 
oftheft in Wean Hall. The victim, 
a CMU student, reported that a 
box containing $800.00 worth of 
CD’s waB stolen from his office 
from between September 22 and 
29.
9/29 THEFT, 3:28 pm. Cam­
pus Police responded to a report 
of theft from an auto. The owner 
of the car, a CMU student, re­
ported that the car had been bro­
ken into and his “Solo” radar de­
tector had been removed. The 
radar detector was valued at 
$250.
9/29 MEDICAL ESCORT,
11:20 pm. A medical escort was 
provided for a CMU student who 
was experiencing chills and nau­
sea. The student was taken from
his dorm room to Presbyterian 
Hospital.
9/30 MEDICAL, 11:37 am. A 
medical escort was provided for a 
CMU student who had been hit 
under the left eye while playing 
basketball. The student was 
transported to Presbyterian Hos­
pital.
9/30 SCAM, 10:20 am. Cam­
pus Police received a report of a 
possible scam. On September 17, 
a well-dressed unidentified male 
entered the More wood Child Care 
Center. The man then proceeded 
to sit down outside of the victim’s 
office until she asked him if she 
could help him. The man re­
sponded by saying that his car 
was broken down in the street, 
his wife wasn’t home, and he had 
no money on him. He then asked 
if he could borrow $14 until the 
following Tuesday. The victim 
gave the man the money, think­
ing his story was legitimate. 
When the man never showed up 
to repay the money, the victim 
began to think that she was the 
victim of a scam.
Compiled by 
MIKE WALKER
The Tartan prints the weekly 
Crime and Incident Report under 
the following guidelines:
• Chiefof Campus Police James 
LePaglia reviews all reports be­
fore release to The Tartan.
• Only three people on The 
Tartan staff see the reports; the 
Editor-in-Chief News Editor, and 
the staffwriter typing the report.
• All personal names, frater­
nity names, ethnic descriptions, 
and other personal details are 
omitted from the printed report.
• Not every incident that occurs 
on campus appears in the report.
• The original police reports 
are returned to Campus Security 
to be destroyed. All reports are 
kept in the strictest confidence.
CLUSTERS, from page 1
This doesn’t come cheap. “Any 
new machine with the kind of 
performance people expect 
would cost about $4000,” said 
Aulfinger.
He also said that eveiy fiscal 
year is a “race” to see what can 
be upgraded with the funds 
available, but emphasized that 
only one major purchase has 
been made so far this year, the 
new equipment for MMP.
“Before the fiscal year ends, 
we hope to address several ar­
eas.... It’s always a guessing 
game as to what we’re going to 
be able to do,” said Aulfinger.
There seems to be some va­
lidity to the complaints of 
crowding in the clusters. CCon 
Jeffrey Siu said, “Everywhere I 
go it’s crowded. Especially the 
Macintoshes at MMP. Because 
they’re new systems, everyone 
wants to go there, and every­
thing is reserved until 2 am.”
Other changes so far have 
included the closing of the 
Mudge cluster and the reloca­
tion of its DEC stations to 
Morewood Gardens. The equip­
ment in the Morewood cluster 
now includes seven DEC sta­
tions and eight Macintosh SE’s.
In addition, the cluster in 
Margaret Morrison was com­
pletely remodeled. The cluster 
received new paint, carpeting, 
chairs, and desks. The furnish­
ings were rearranged to make 
working together in small 
groups by students easier. The 
most important improvement 
came with the replacment of 
the agingMacSEs with 26 new 
Mac Ilcis.
Tracey Futhey, director of 
User Services, said that she is 
“pretty happy” with the im­
provements in MMP.
“It’s a completely new cluster 
as opposed to putting new 
equipment on old and shoddy 
desks,” said Futhey.
Futhey said that Carnegie 
Mellon University is fortunate 
that the availability of comput­
ers is as good as it is and that 
the quality of the equipment is 
so high.
“I have just in the past month 
or so been talking to people^ at 
other universities and as a re­
sult, I’m feeling pretty good 
about the level of quality in pur 
own clusters,” she said. “For 
example, MIT just opened its 
first computer lab with 17 Macs. 
We’re doing pretty well, com­
pared with other institutions.”
Aulfinger was particularly 
concerned about another topic: 
the perception of CCons. In A 
Person’s Opinion in the Sep­
tember 28 issue of The Tartan, 
two people expressed their dis­
pleasure with advice they had 
received from CCons.
“I was very concerned that 
two people using the clusters 
said that the CConswerenotas 
helpful as they could have 
been,” said Aulfinger. “I’d like 
to see better training of the 
CCons and better staffing of 
the clusters.”
Futhey said that she tends 
“not to have direct interaction 
with the CCons except as any­
one else might,” asking forrftd- 
vice, and added that a wgek 
earlier she had received a mes­
sage from a faculty member 
that said how helpful a C’Con 
had been.“One of the things 
we’re concerned with is getting 
feedback from anyone in the 
campus community who uses 
our services,” said Aulfinger. 
“We can always use this type of 
information.”
Attention Foreign Students
Hie American University In Washington. DC Is hosting the 
3rd Annual Job Fair devoted to foreign students. This is an 
excellent opportunity (or foreign students to meet ©192 
lional employers offering home country emp'r.• — • 
practical training opportunities Fore gnStude''T .•.•• : 
currently enrolled'full time ct Carrog'e Wc- * 
have been ' invltea to atre^a :-<? .
COMPLETE IM OUM \l ION \M> KEÜISI U.VI l(>\ MAI I HI.M.N 
AVAILABLE IN'TIII'. C.SllllLIl CEMLIL U'AKNEK II M l. HlMIM I'*
QL'tiSTlQNS.W' Ciinlj.i J.-lui pm."J"Hie
.Cnrni'i'ii'
Spimiorcd by CJrooi (Vnt.-i, IK' I loin/ SiIiimI. Ml'lloil
OSIA. omcc of lmenuli.in.il "pArmemNewsTalk 88.3 WRCT???
SundayMondayTuesdayWednesdayThursdayFridaySaturday
<...................WRCT News at 5:00....................>
" Enlightenments"
w/ Rebbeca Livingston"CareerLine"from the Career Center
" Curmudgeon's 
Corner"
w/ Sam Minter & Ivan Bou
"ATC Interview 
Hour"
w/ Ivan Bou & Sam Minter
" Subarticulate 
Inculture"
w/ Pete Berger & 
Naiomi Galtz
" Politics and 
Perspectives"
w/ Joe Wahl & Nicole Betters
"Lecture O' t 
Week"
"Your World"
w/ Jeff Brown
"CMU Campus Report"
w/ Ed Delaney
ErfD
WRCT News and Public Affairs every day 5 to 6 pm 
Listen, call in, get your viewpoints and ideas on the air!!!
(Schedule subject to occasional changes)

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 5 October 19925
I AMERICAN & FOREIGN H 
ai MOVIE POSTERS ¦ 
ROCK POSTERS 
PHOTOS & POSTCARDS W 
¿SCRIPTS
OCT 5-7
Pitt Union 
Kurtzman Room
_ QCT8&9 
CMU Skibo Lobby
©19
Physical Plant attempts 
to rectify UCC problems
A divisive issue
Approximately 7000 right-to-life activists formed the Pittsburgh portion of the National Life Chain in 
a nationwide peaceful anti-abortion demonstration Sunday afternoon. ATO brothers Steve Sukal, Dave 
Viszlay, Griffin Pero, Ted Feitt, and Marcus Schlegel staged a small counter-protest on their porch while 
demonstrators lined Forbes Avenue.
UCC, from page 1
of useful occupant health infor­
mation, none of the air sample 
data could be correlated with any 
health problems. Formaldehyde 
concentration was consistently 
les§ than 1000 parts per billion 
(ppb) and C02 was not in exces­
sive levels.
ft'was later determined that 
irritation was caused by adhe­
sive chemicals in the newly laid 
carpet and new furniture, which 
incidentally contained formalde­
hyde. In March 1985, formalde­
hyde scrubbing filters were in­
stalled in the ventilation system. 
It was discovered that when all 
the formaldehyde was removed 
from the air in the building, the 
filters were only used to approxi­
mately 75 percent of their capac­
ity, indicating that formaldehyde 
was not a major component of the 
air problems in UCC.
Health complaints persisted 
through the installation and re­
moval of these filters, as well as 
complaints about air temperature 
and lack of air circulation in some 
areas.
In fall 1986, Physical Plant 
began the installation of larger 
air handling systems in order to 
almost double the amount of air 
circulation in the building, a ret­
rofit with two Mammoth Air Han­
dling units. A rated value of 
11;000 cubic feet per minute 
(CFM) as opposed to the previous 
val\J(e of7,000 CFM was achieved. 
This did not wholly solve any of 
the problems, nor did the number 
of complaints go down.
At this point, Physical Plant 
and EH&S began a long-term in­
vestigation into methods of han­
dling health problems via better 
ventilation. According to Douglas, 
the second major retrofit was part 
of a larger project from 1989 until 
the present. All ventilation units 
were completely replaced, and all 
duct work and filter units were 
cleaned. Also, Physical Plant rec­
ognized the need for increased 
maintenance in UCC, and in­
creased the number of workers 
and frequency of basic cleaning 
in the building.
Additionally, the control sys­
tem for the Heating, Ventilation 
and Cooling system (HVAC) was 
replaced, because the manufac­
turer had gone out of business 
and the system was completely 
different from all other buildings. 
The HVAC is now compatible with 
all other buildings on campus, 
and the increased maintenance 
has persisted until today.
Among other changes, the 
primitive two-speed air fan sys­
tem which was responsible for 
large amounts of dust was 
scrapped for a more versatile, 
Variable Air Volume (VAV) con­
trol system. However, this sys­
tem also had its problems in that 
it was thermally triggered, mean­
ing heating or cooling would af­
fect the volume of air entering all
rooms, resulting in insufficient 
air circulation. Physical Plant has 
since recalibrated all the instru­
ments to allow for more precise 
control of the volume of air enter­
ing the building.
One ongoing problem with the 
ventilation system in UCC is that 
of flexible vent ducts blowing off, 
disconnecting themselves from 
the main ventilation duct. This is 
the major cause of many tem­
perature and fresh air problems 
in some offices. Physical Plant 
periodically has to go into the 
building to reconnect and seal 
these ducts back onto the main 
system.
Also, throughout the history of 
UCC, there have been problems 
with the so-called “black dust” — 
large, unidentified particles fly­
ing around in the ventilation sys­
tem. Complaints about the dust 
have been the most noticeable. 
All attempts to find the source of 
these particles have been less 
than conclusive.
In 1990, the U. Pitt School of 
Medicine conducted a test to iden­
tify some of the Volatile Organic 
Contaminants (VOCs) in the air, 
and inconsistently found traces 
of bacteria as well as yeasts, 
molds, and other organic com­
pounds. Additional surveys were 
sent out and collected on UCC 
occupant health, and none of 
these particles could be statisti­
cally linked to any of the health 
problems.
Douglas, Collopy, and Ciminel 
all have come to the conclusion 
that the large amount of laser 
printing and photocopying unique 
to UCC has created an excess of 
toner dust, particles of toner 
which do not adhere to the paper 
when printed. This added to the 
normal dust in the building as 
well as the hermetically sealed 
design means that this dust is 
not only present but accumulat­
ing in the building every day. As 
mentioned above, the dust in large 
quantities does not qualify as a 
health hazard or an irritant un­
der EPA standards.
Douglas believes that the dust 
builds up around ventilation fans 
which previously could only run 
at two speeds. When the fans 
switched from low to high speed, 
the jarring of the system would 
shake the particles loose, and
cause the large buildup of dust in 
offices and under ventilation 
ducts. Ciminel has similar theo­
ries about the air diffuser units 
immediately above the vents, 
where he obtained some of the 
samples used for testing from 
large deposits of the dust. Physi­
cal Plant still maintains a daily 
schedule of cleaning out ventila­
tion ducts, grilles, and filters.
The black dust complaints be­
came more scathing as Physical 
Plant undertook a large project 
to flush out the entire ventilation 
duct system in early August. This 
involved installation of blue par­
ticle filters right above air vents 
in order to catch the massive 
amount of dust which was subse­
quently released. Apparently, ei­
ther the filters were not installed 
everywhere or some filters were 
not effective, due to increased 
complaints about large amounts 
of dust falling in office space all 
over the building. The filters have 
now been removed, and although 
the black particle problem has 
lessened, it is not entirely absent.
Douglas says that time-tested 
technology has improved to the 
point where he is confident in 
being able to resolve the dust 
issue.
The University has hired 
Pathcon Inc. to do biological sam­
pling analysis to determine con­
clusively any organic factors 
which may contribute to health 
problems in UCC. Douglas says 
that the reason many problems 
have remained unresolved even 
with long-term knowledge and 
testing is that technology has only 
recently improved to the point 
where air sampling data has been 
at all meaningful.
In the near future Physical 
Plant will be installing electro­
static filters in the ventilation 
system to capture the microscopic 
particles which have been build­
ing up into the large black chunks, 
as well as continuing to upgrade 
the air-conditioning system to use 
chilled water units instead of the 
currently utilized coils.
Douglas expressed the continu­
ing nature of the improvements 
in UCC. “We haven’t stopped; it’s 
an ongoing project,” said Dou­
glas. “I think the University has 
been nothing but cooperative in 
helping us to get the job done.”
I NEED A THREE
SURVIVAL RIVERS
nauBe, 9/25I5aN 
naST 
UaNN OALV­DMM
• FRAT PARTIES
• BIRTHDAYS
• GIFT CERTIFICATES
SHORT & SUITE
A#*
SHORT TERM LEASES ELEGANTLY FURNISHED STUDIO 1 OR 2 BEDROOM APARTMENT SUITES.
Only a few steps from FASHIONABLE WALNUT STREET 
SHOPS AND RESTAURANTS. From S47 per day (on a 
monthly basis). Includes FREE local phone (answering 
machine too!), cable TV (2 movie channels), VCR, all linens, 
completely equipped kitchen and parking. Maid and 
concierge services available.
JJm
(412) 441-4444
5405 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15232 Toll Free 800*767-848?
LUUIUI 133UI1THUEAR
STUDY SKILLS TUTORS
Undergraduate students are needed to provide individual and small group study skills tutoring to other CMU undergraduates. Topics include'time management, lecture note-taking, reducing test anxiety, and test-taking skills. Hours are flexible. Some evening and weekend hours necessary. You must have a good academic record and be willing to share your knowledge of effective sludy practices with students in all colleges. Training will be provided. To apply,call Marcia or Kim at X6878 or send e-mail to mw2v @ andrew.
CFA searches for replacement dean
By DECLAN McCULLAGH
Tartan Staffwriter
The upcoming resignation of Lowry Burgess, 
College of Fine Arts dean, has necessitated a search 
for a replacement dean. The dean search will 
include candidates from outside Carnegie Mellon 
and may take up to a full school year, the search 
committee reported last week. The date Burgess 
will step down is still to be announced.
The committee decided to broaden its search to 
include candidates from academic, museum, and 
foundation environments outside the University 
after the members failed to locate an adequate 
candidate from within CMU.
John Modell, the chair of the dean search com­
mittee, said candidates must meet exacting stan­
dards. “CFA is a school with a grand tradition,” 
which the new dean must uphold, said Modell. 
Modell believes that CFA will continue to have a 
strong undergraduate program, which started in 
1914 when the college was founded as the first fine 
arts school in the country.
The 11 -member committee will ensure that CFA 
remains “a serious undergraduate school. Stu­
dents are enormously important,” said Modell.
One reason why the search will be so protracted 
is that the qualifications needed in a CFA dean are 
unique among the various colleges of the Univer­
sity. According to Modell, a history professor, CFA
is quite “different from the rest of the colleges.” 
The five CFA departments, Architecture, Art, De­
sign, Drama, and Music, all have widely different 
curriculums, each of which the new dean must 
understand intimately.
Because of dissimilarities in these departments, 
the candidates must be not only professionally 
respected and be good administrators, they must 
also be able to integrate all CFA departments into 
one school yet allow each department a certain 
amount of freedom, said Modoll.
Sherri Johnson, a junior art major, hopos that 
the now doan will be floxiblo. “If someono holds 
that one specific art form is art, then the only thing 
that ends up taught is his art. What’s the point in 
that?”
“Wo need a doan who is concerned with not only 
his students’ education, but also thoir welfare,” 
said Johnson. “Things like paint fumes pose health 
threats to students. The new dean must be willing 
to do something about it.”
According to Modell, department heads who have 
good relationships with students and hold inter­
disciplinary jobs at other universities will make up 
the bulk of the candidates.
As part of the next step in the dean search, the 
committee will place advertisements in trade maga­
zines and academic journals over the next few 
weeks. The search committee will also be soliciting 
nominations from the student and faculty body.

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Celebrate National Corning Out Day
National Coming Out Day 
(NCOD) exists to encourage 
people who are gay, lesbian, or 
bisexual to “come out” — reveal 
their sexual orientation — to 
someone who didn’t know. 
NCOD is always October 11, 
the anniversary of the 1987 
march on Washington by gays, 
lesbians, bisexuals, and their 
supporters.
Because NCOD falls on the 
Sunday of midsemester break 
this year, it will be celebrated at 
Carnegie Mellon Friday. People 
will be passing out ribbons to 
anyone who supports gays, les­
bians, and bisexuals. We en­
courage everyone to get a rib­
bon and wear it with pride.
You don’t have to be gay, les­
bian, or bisexual to support the 
need for equal rights for all 
people. It would be unthinkable 
to deny a person employment, 
education, or housing on the 
basis of color or religious affilia­
tion — even if it was acceptable 
40 years ago. Ending discrimi­
nation on the basis of sexual 
orientation is a civil rights battle 
for the 1990s, and it must be 
fought not only by those who are 
directly affected by such dis­
crimination, but by all those who 
support the idea that all are 
created equal.
Unfortunately, much of this 
battle must be fought against a 
difficult opponent — the close- 
minded, narrow thinker who has 
no respect for anyone different 
from what he or she considers 
acceptable. Respect is not about 
agreeing with someone else’s
opinions, values, or lifestyle. It 
is about accepting other people’s 
differences and allowing them 
to live without fear or the feel­
ing that they need to hide who 
they really are. It can be hard to 
accept people with radically dif­
ferent beliefs or lifestyles, but 
it’s vital to everyone’s healthy 
personal development to be 
open-minded.
Respect the beliefs of others, 
even if you don’t agree with 
them. If you lock yourself up in 
your own little world and ig­
nore, shut out, or condemn any­
one who doesn’t fit into that 
world, you lose. You won’t be 
able to expand your mind and 
make the most of the opportuni­
ties offered on our campus.
College is a time to learn and 
grow, to develop knowledge 
about both academic and real 
world issues. Refusing to toler­
ate those who are different be­
cause of race, religious affilia­
tion, or sexual orientation forces 
them to hide who they are out of 
fear or intimidation, which 
keeps people from developing 
completely. It also stunts the 
growth of those who intimidate 
others through their intoler­
ance, because they lose the op­
portunity to be enriched by 
learning about the lives and ex­
periences of people different 
from them
National Coming Out Day of­
fers a chance for some people to 
show the world who they really 
are—and a chance for others to 
accept and respect them. Take 
the chance.
Student Senate must 
communicate better
Voices United Gospel Choir 
(VUGC) is in danger of losingits 
Student Senate funding because 
of questions raised about 
whether or not the group is of a 
religious nature. There have 
apparently been no serious at­
tempts by Senate to work with 
VUGC to change the organiza­
tion so that it can stay funded.
The Funding and Recognition 
Committee (F&R) should at­
tempt to reach an agreement 
with VUGC that will resolve 
any conflicts that currently ex­
ist between VUGC’s activities 
and Senate’s fiscal policy. If an 
agreement is to be made, VUGC 
needs to cooperate and be will­
ing to change.
If VUGC is willing to remove 
organized prayer from its meet­
ings, remove the position of 
chaplain, and change the re­
vival atmosphere ofits concerts, 
it should be able to keep its 
funding. The fact that the genre 
of music is religious in nature 
does not necessarily mean that 
the organization is a religious 
one.
If Senate is going to enforce 
the rules that govern campus 
organizations, it must make the 
leaders of these organizations 
aware of their responsibility to 
uphold the rules. Senate should 
inform organization leaders of 
exactly what responsibilities 
they have regarding the Senate 
constitution, bylaws, and fiscal 
policy so they know if their group
Letters to the Editor
Drama too diverse to 
be stereotyped easily
on
Letter to 
the Editor
is in compliance.
VUGC’s lack of knowledge 
that it was violating Senate 
rules is symptomatic of a larger 
problem that exists between 
Senate and student organiza­
tions. Lines of communication 
need to be improved and ex­
panded so that no group is sud­
denly faced with a funding cut 
or freeze it doesn’t understand. 
A committee was formed by Sen­
ate to address these types of 
problems between Senate and 
student groups. Unfortunately, 
it proved ineffective, and the 
lines of communication remain 
weak to nonexistent.
In order to alleviate problems 
with student groups, F&R 
should give new organizations 
copies of Senate’s constitution, 
bylaws, and fiscal policy, and 
tell them they are responsible 
for being familiar with it. The 
Public Relations and Human 
Resources Committee should 
send out copies of these docu­
ments to all student organiza­
tions at least once a semester 
and when major changes are 
made.
If Senate wants to avoid prob­
lems that affect groups like 
VUGC, it needs to take action 
before problems become seri­
ous enough to threaten a group’s 
funding. Organization leaders 
also have to make sure they are 
aware of their responsibilities 
and that their organizations 
adhere to Senate requirements.
Editor:
I’m writing this let­
ter to respond to the 
recent articles in both 
The Tartan and The 
Student Union con­
cerning some messages left on a bboard 
by some members of the College Repub­
licans. Although all of the messages 
seemed to echo the same sentiments, I 
would like to specifically address the 
message left by David Byler. In this 
message, Byler asks his fellow College 
Republicans if they noticed the fact that 
on the opposite side of some political 
slogans painted on the fence was an 
advertisement for a Studio Theatre pro­
duction. He further asks his fellow read­
ers if it would be humorous if they painted 
“performance cancelled” over this ad. 
He then suggests that as a group, they 
attend that performance and “boo the 
fag actors."
As a senior in the Drama Department, 
I was a little disturbed when I read this. 
The fact that someone painted political 
slogans near an advertisement for a 
play does not mean that the production, 
the people, the Drama Department, or 
anyone associated with the show share 
those sentiments. I certainly wouldn’t 
think that a department that consists of 
hundreds of diverse students, faculty, 
and staff could all agree on any political 
issue. To attack the actors in this show 
or anyone in the Drama Department or 
the College of Fine Arts by calling them 
any of the ridiculous names mentioned 
is nothing more than sheer ignorance.
The Drama Department as well as the 
College of Fine Arts consists of many 
different kinds of students; heterosexu­
als, homosexuals, bisexuals, liberals, and 
conservatives. The one thing that they 
all have in common is a commitment to 
their craft. Whether they are a sculptor, 
musician, architect, actor, or anything 
else, they all have talent and work every 
bit as hard as the people in any other 
department. To label this group as any­
thing else is truly narrow-minded.
Most ofthe gentlemen who wrote these 
messages are freshman who have lim­
ited exposure to our campus and the 
diverse people who make up the Univer­
sity community. I hope for their sake 
that these gentlemen give the people 
around them the opportunity to show 
them exactly how talented people can 
be.
Aaron Skalka
Senior, Drama-Production
Columnist invites libel 
charge from student
onEditor:
As a person men­
tioned in Christian 
Restifo’s column, I LcttGt tO 
wish to respond to al- +h pHitnr 
legations made in the EUIIUI 
article. Yes, I did post on assocs. 
collegerepublicans the quotes attributed 
to me, as I have an unfortunate ten­
dency to shoot my mouth off without 
thinking when I am mad. I apologize to 
those who were offended by my com­
ments.
However, you come close to libel by 
having me describe all CFA students as
“limp-wristed democrats” when I was 
referring only to the few who painted 
over the College Republicans fence. I 
neither said nor believe what Restifo’s 
comments on that quote imply. I could 
similarly libel Restifo by saying he de­
scribed himself to Pat Gallagher and me 
as “very anti-homosexual,” but that is 
wrong because he actually said “I was 
very anti-homosexual as a freshmen.” If 
you want to avoid libel suits, please 
avoid quoting me or anyone else out of 
context in the future. Obviously, it is 
wrong to imply that my comments, or 
the comments of Gallagher or Stephen 
Gordon, necessarily reflect the opinions 
of the College Republicans Club.
Finally, while I thank everyone who 
has invited me to an ALLIES meeting 
for the invitation, I must decline. St. 
Paul writes in 1st Corinthians 6:9-10, 
“Do not be deceived; neither fornicators, 
nor idolators, nor adulterers, nor effemi­
nate, nor homosexuals, nor thieves, nor 
the covetous, nor drunkards, nor revil- 
ers, nor swindlers, shall inherit the king­
dom of God.” As a Christian, I fully 
believe this, and could no more approve 
homosexuality then I could adultery or 
theft. I do not think myself perfect or 
blameless, for St. Paul tells us in Ro­
mans 3:23, “all have sinned, and fall 
short ofthe glory of God.” But by repent­
ing our sins, confessing Jesus as Lord, 
and being baptized one may be saved. 
May I invite everyone in ALLIES and 
cmuOUT to come to a church or Chris­
tian meeting and do this?
David (Andy) Byler 
Freshmen, CIT
Militant feminism re­
inforced on campus
Editor: & Os
Feminism.
Trying to define that 
word is nearly impos- Letter to
sible the EditorIn the past few 
weeks, I have been questioning all of my 
beliefs on the women’s movement and 
feminism. I am a freshman who has a 
very liberal background, and has been 
horrified by the treatment of women in 
our society. They are clearly underpaid, 
abused, and harassed in the workplace 
and by the government. I marched on 
Washington, D.C., this year for women’s 
reproductive rights. And then I arrived 
at Carnegie Mellon.
I began to see a side of the women’s 
movement that scared me. It was a very 
militant feminism. I live close to the 
Women’s Center on Margaret Morrison 
and was very threatened by the atmo­
sphere inside. The mural on the back 
wall, which is beautifully done, depicts 
three nude figures, one of Eve grinning 
and gloating at Adam, who is crunched 
up in the comer, looking beaten down 
and humiliated. Flying through the air 
is another naked female, looking down 
lovingly at Eve. This mural reveals a 
very destructive side of feminism, which 
basically treats the female as the male’s 
superior. As I said before, the treatment 
of women by men in the past has been 
atrocious, but the answer to this prob­
lem is not to reverse that treatment. 
This tactic will drive men away from the 
women’s movement. The initial goal of 
the women’s movement was equality. 
How can one expect to be treated as an
equal when he or she does not treat 
others in the same way?
The issue of sexual orientation is also 
a big stereotype of the women’s move­
ment. The general assumption on cam­
pus is that all females who are feminists 
are gay as well as all men who support 
the feminist movement. These terrible 
assumptions are reinforced by that mur 
ral, student opinion, and even some fac­
ulty. By building up stereotypes like this 
in a society where homophobia runs ram­
pant, heterosexual men and women be­
come threatened by the movement. 
Women’s rights are sexual issues that 
span all sexes and sexual preferences. If 
that basic fact is not recognized soon, 
the movement will certainly fail.
I urge the members of this campus to 
be open-minded on this subject. I still 
support the women’s movement and hope 
that someday, men and women will be 
treated as equals in society. But the 
atmosphere now is very threatening, 
and this cause will come to a standstill 
unless we all start treating each other as 
equals ... now.
Christopher Graefe 
Freshman, CFA
VUGC funding denied 
because of religion
onEditor:
I offer my interpre­
tation of the rel­
evance of people tak- Letter to
ing “offense” at the *u_ 
religious aspects of the Ed,t°r 
Voices United Gospel Choir (VUGC), 
and point to a basic fairness issue that 
bears on whether Senate should con­
tinue to fund VUGC. Senate’s bylaws 
state that “only non-academic, non-po- 
litical, and non-religious organizations 
may be recognized as funded.” (5.2.B:1)
A member of VUGC quit because the 
religiousness of the group made her 
uncomfortable. She joined the group to 
sing, but then found that the religious 
activity got in the way of the activity for 
which she had joined. The “offense” taken 
by this person is significant only in that 
it represents a reaction to the preemi­
nent role of religion in the group. The 
bylaws seem to prohibit religious activ­
ity from being preeminent.
Others interpret the issue of “offense” 
differently. A perception exists that find­
ing VUGC to be religious is part of a 
vendetta bom of “offense” taken at reli­
gion. There is almost certainly no such 
vendetta, and discussion along those 
lines is diversionary.
At issue is the fair and consistent 
application of Senate’s bylaws. Were 
VUGC to remain funded, Senate should 
consider funding Bible study groups as 
well. If a choral group can select its 
music by religious criterion and be 
funded, then a study group should be 
allowed to select its literature by reli­
gious criterion and be funded.
Note that groups that sing Gregorian 
chants, or classical music like Handel’s 
Messiah, select music for its genre, as is 
clear from the secular manner in which 
they typically perform. In contrast, 
VUGC appears to select from contempo­
rary vocal music, strictly by religious 
criterion.
Moreover, at last spring’s concert in 
the Skibo Ballroom, the group’s vice- 
Please see LETTERS, page 7

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 5 October 1992
One-issue platform fails for Perot
I
Christian M. Restifo
¡When I went to elementary 
school in California, my 
babysitter had a son named Phil. 
He was about three or four years 
younger than my friends and me. 
I'fow Phil was something of a prob­
lem child in that he wanted at­
tention at any cost. I must admit 
that my friends and I were no 
better, because we incessantly 
picked on him. His desire for at- 
tention would so infuriate us that 
W&joften excluded him from our 
activities.
When I read about Ross Perot 
in the news these days, I think of 
Phil. I do this not because of theI
 frightening resemblance between 
th<* two, but because Perot re­
minds me of the kid who wants 
attention and then whines when 
heBoesn’t get what he wants.
C?f course, Perot is claimingthat 
he’s coming back to the race in 
order to advocate his economic 
plan to eliminate the deficit. Yes, 
merely representing the “will of 
the people,” he’s admitted to his 
mistake of dropping out of the 
Presidential race in July, and now 
he's ready to take on the Bush 
and Clinton campaigns.
¡^Something tells me, however, 
that nothing has really changed. 
He'still acts hostile towards the 
prjiss to the point where he con-
demns most of their actions. He 
refuses to answer any questions 
about his activities and history. 
And when issues such as the 
economy, health care, abortion, 
and others are up on the list of 
voter concerns, he’s pushing one 
thing and one thing only — the 
deficit.
In short, what we are seeing is 
that Perot is once again showing 
us he has no credentials whatso­
ever to make either him or his 
one-issue platform a viable alter­
native.
His inability to handle the press 
exists as his most damning qual­
ity. Anytime a reporter questions 
him about the alleged investiga­
tions into other candidates or his 
campaign volunteers, his answers 
are usually very gruff. To the 
inexperienced observer of poli­
tics, his proclamation of not an­
swering questions that are not 
relevant to the issues may sound 
rather refreshing. The problem 
is that this easy cop out will allow 
him to avoid serious and impor­
tant concerns that will define his 
stands (or stand as the case may 
be).
Imagine when Perot comes “un­
der fire” and must defend his 
plan. When any reporter or ana­
lyst asks a question that doesn’t 
allow Perot to return a quick an­
swer, he’s going to start yelling at 
the person. God forbid someone 
should try to point out flaws in 
his plan. That person can expect 
a vehement attack that draws 
attention away from Perot’s plan
and towards his. antagonistic ap­
proach.
Perot feels he can tell the press 
to travel to rather warm subter­
ranean depths because he’s riding 
on the discontent of voters. He’s 
representing them. He has gra­
ciously accepted their calling for 
him to take up the gauntlet. This
his personality will only hurt him. 
A vicious cycle will result where 
his anger will only bring about 
more attacks.
What Perot wants, and what 
he’s not going to get, is a great 
awakening in this country to his 
issue of the deficit. I’m not saying 
that the deficit isn’t an important
In short, what we are seeing is that 
Perot is once again showing us he 
has no credentials whatsoever to 
make either him or his one-issue 
platform a viable alternative.
is like giving gasoline to an ar­
sonist. With this so-called sup­
port propping up his ego, Perot 
will completely disregard any 
type of advice advocated by his 
supporters ... unless it’s what he 
wants to hear.
While having the ability to 
make the final say in business 
without fear of retaliation comes 
with the territory, it spells death 
in the political arena. A great 
deal of political jockeying will take 
place in the next few weeks, and 
only a coherent, well-organized 
team will be able to handle it. 
Perot’s refusal to be flexible, and 
suffer a few potshots, will un­
doubtedly hurt him. In a system 
where violent outbursts call a 
person’s character and decision 
making abilities into question,
issue. It’s not the only one, how­
ever. Only a complete fool would 
enter the race at this point and 
think that voters are going to 
suddenly rush to his side because 
he’s representing the “fed up with 
government” idea. There are too 
many other issues.
Polls have shown that Perot 
isn’t going to get anywhere near 
the support he had before he 
dropped out. At most, he’s going 
to gamer only ten percent of the 
popular vote. This won’t be 
enough to make a showing in the 
electoral college, the place where 
the real battle is waged. Ho will 
only be able to affect how votes 
will be cast, in such dead-hcat 
states as Texas and Florida.
One may ask, then, why is Perot 
running? Is it to win the Presi­
dency? Is to bring the issuo oftho 
deficit to tho forefront oftho cam­
paign? Is it to shake up the two 
party system? Or is it to soothe a 
bruised ego?
Most likely, bringing the defi­
cit issue to the front of the cam­
paigns would be enough to en­
able Perot to say, “I told you so.” 
If he can dodge the press long 
enough by utilizing a TV and ra­
dio blitz without answering ques­
tions, Clinton and Bush might 
find themselves talking about the 
deficit. But Perot isn’t as suave 
as he thinks he is if he believes 
he’ll have any long term, lasting 
effect. When it comes time to en­
ter the booth and throw the 
switch, many voters will be ask­
ing themselves, “What will my 
vote for Perot do if someone else 
is elected?” The answer is noth­
ing.
If Perot was serious about the 
issue and not truly afraid of his 
treatment by the press, he would 
have stuck it out. If not that, he 
would have entered immediately 
after the Republican convention 
as it was clear that neither of the 
candidates were willing to talk 
about his issue.
Face it. This politically naive 
man has no real qualities to make 
it as a candidate. He’s just upset 
because no one wants to play ball 
with him.
Christian M. Restifo is a senior 
chemical engineering major!.; who 
would run for President if he had 
a billion dollars.
Special interest groups need basic respect for others
----------------
¦'»The recent activity of several people on 
the assocs.collegerepublicans bulletin 
board, some of which was published in 
The Student Union, and the painting of 
the fence by several members of the Col­
lege Republicans has personally offended 
me as both a supporter of the Republican 
Party and a conservative. The views that 
these individuals are expressing demon­
strates ideology gone bad, and should not 
be taken as the beliefs of all Republicans.
There is no presentation of issues by 
the individuals involved, just the bash­
ing of specific groups of people. Criticism 
of ideas and beliefs is a legitimate form of 
opposition, but name-calling is callous 
and self-defeating. Using hatred as a 
means of conveying moral and political 
opposition to homosexuality, feminism, 
liberalism, or any other activity, political 
ideology, or philosophy only shows weak­
ness of ideology and values.
I Conservative Republicans are often 
criticized for breeding hatred and con­
tempt towards others. This occurs many 
times, regardless of how well an argu­
ment is backed up, but for members of a 
political organization to be so blatantly 
hateful and contemptuous during a Presi­
dential election year is unimaginable. The 
leaders of the College Republicans should 
have disassociated the organization from 
the misguided members that posted the 
R.D. Quinn anti-gay remarks and the obnoxious re- 
marks on the fence (even if you could not 
read them all that well).
I would like to think that true conserva­
tives have a little more sensitivity towards 
other individuals’ feelings. I doubt that 
there are many people who have achieved
not suggesting that if you have religious 
or moral objections to a gay lifestyle, that 
you must accept that lifestyle as part of 
your own beliefs. I am, however, suggest­
ing that those objections can be expressed 
in a context that is not threatening to 
other individuals.
Religions that preach against premari­
tal sex continue to maintain their beliefs, 
yet not many people feel threatened by 
their activities. Any sexual relationship
There Is no presentation of issues by the 
individuals involved, just the bashing of 
specific groups of people. Criticism of ideas 
and beliefs is a legitimate form of opposition, 
but name-calling is callous and self-defeating.
perfect morality by anyone’s standards. 
Gay bashing is like stoning someone for 
their sins. I do in fact have reservations 
about the morality of a gay lifestyle, but 
this does not mean I have the right to pass 
judgement on anyone who is gay.
Many people believe the gay lifestyle 
will destroy the family, but in fact, some­
one who is gay or lesbian is not going to be 
a happy or productive individual if forced 
into traditional roles. Suggesting that forc- 
ing gays into the closet will somehow save 
the traditional family is an absurdity. I am
outside of marriage is considered sinful 
by many religious groups, so being gay 
certainly is no worse than how most het­
erosexual individuals live their lives. If 
what we choose to do in this life offends 
God, then we will all find out sooner or 
later, but let the judgement be left to 
Him.
The political left is not blameless for 
the types of reactions from so-called right 
wing individuals on campus. We all have 
a right to believe and express our reli­
gious and moral beliefs. Attempting to
force people not only to tolerate, but to 
accept all individual lifestyles as appropri­
ate, is inviting a backlash of hatred. An 
example of this is groups like the radical 
gay rights group Act Up, which has dis­
rupted mass at St. Patrick’s Cathedral in 
New York City. People have a right to their 
beliefs and attempting to break them down 
by going after their faith is unacceptable.
In order to make this country a better 
place, we all need to be aware of how our 
words and actions affect those around us. 
How can we expect our.leaders to solve all 
of our country’s and the world’s problems 
when at a top university, we cannot have an 
intelligent discourse and exchange of ideas? 
It is often frightening to realize that the 
future of our country will be in the hands of 
a generation that still has not learned the 
basic value of respect for others.
This campus is made up of people with 
very different perspectives on politics, reli­
gion. sexuality, and ideology — to attempt 
to change anyone’s mind about a point of 
view can only be accomplished through 
intelligent discussion of the issues. We can 
express our ideas on the electronic bulletin 
boards and in the two campus publications 
(The Tartan and The Student Union). Use 
of these resources should be done with 
some thought and not knee-jerk 
reactionism.
R.D. Quinn is a senior civil engineering 
major who hopes to see intelligent conserva­
tism on this campus in the near future.
Letters to the Editor
Continued from LETTERS, page 6
president explained to the audi­
ence that “Gospel music is a cel­
ebration of God and what He has 
done... a lifting up of Holy hands 
hi^jie presence of the Lord.” It 
wQUld seem that a performance 
of such music would be non-secu­
lar, of necessity.
In sum, if VUGC is not reli­
gious, then a meaningful inter­
pretation of the term escapes me.
Erik Altmann 
Graduate student, SCS.
Senate needs to 
focus on campus
onEditor:
' Doesn’t Stu­
dent Senate
hayesomething Letter to,$t£r to do than 
voteonthel984 EOltOr 
Federal Highway Act?
Last Tuesday, Eric Altmann 
started a debate on states’ rights 
Versus federal rights. Why did we
Senators debate this issue? Ac­
cording to Altmann, repealing the 
Federal Highway Act “could” af­
fect the drinking age in Penn., 
which would affect students at 
CMU. The 1984 Federal High­
way Act basically states: If states 
don’t raise the drinking age to 21, 
the federal government won’t 
fund state highways.
There is a basic flaw in think­
ing that Pennsylvania will change 
its drinking age if this Highway 
Act is repealed. Penn, had a mini­
mum drinking age of 21 long be­
fore 1984. What reason would 
they now have to lower the drink­
ing age?
Although I agree in principle to 
increasing states’ rights, I don’t 
feel Senate is the place to debate 
this issue. Senate is supposed to 
make campus life better and dis­
tribute money to campus organi­
zations. Why don’t we stick to a 
student-oriented agenda?
Rob Evans 
Junior, Mech E
Couple tells of the 
‘real’ Bill Clinton
onEditor:
In response 
to the issue of 
the integrity Letter tO
and character 4.1____r «¦.„„
of Governor the Ed,t0r 
Bill Clinton, my husband and I 
wish to provide the American 
people with our personal reflec­
tions upon Governor Clinton’s 
background.
First I would explain that my 
husband and I have spent our 
lifetime in the field of Arkansas 
public education. I have a profes­
sional degree in guidance and 
counseling. My husband, Henry, 
holds a master of education de­
gree in educational administra­
tion. We both retired in 1977 af­
ter a 45 year career working with 
young people in our state. Hav­
ing interacted with tens of thou­
sands of students, one of whom 
was Governor Clinton, we feel 
well qualified to provide insight
into his character,
We would like to relate a touch­
ing account of the “real” Clinton, 
a person who respects people, un­
conditionally. This anecdote was 
related to me by one of my stu­
dents.
“I came by bus to Hot Springs 
High School from a small rural 
area. As I approached the build­
ing I was frightened, not know­
ing where to go to register. I 
walked slowly, very slowly up the 
steps. Once inside the building, a 
nice young man came to greet me 
with his hand extended to shake 
my hand. He said, ‘Welcome to 
Hot Springs High School — the 
bestschoolin Arkansas! My name 
is Bill Clinton, how may I help 
you?’ ‘I need to enroll,’ I an­
swered timidly. He took me to the 
office, helped me enroll, and then 
went with me to show me my 
classrooms. As we walked, he dis­
cussed the activities of the school 
and said, ‘If you need anything, 
you let me know.’ All throughout 
high school I saw Bill in the halls,
2To 2uc2uh
cafeteria, and at assemblies. He 
always spoke to me and asked 
how I was doing. He was a perfect 
gentleman and the kindest per­
son I have ever known. Had it not 
been for Bill Clinton, I would not 
have graduated from Hot Springs 
High.”
I was deeply moved as this 
young lady described the Clinton 
we all know. As Clinton’s high 
school counselor and an observer 
of his personal and professional 
accomplishments, it is clear to 
me that he cares about people 
and has an understanding of the 
issues relevant to most Ameri­
cans.
Clinton is a highly intelligent, 
optimistic, and truthful person 
who loves God, his family, and 
his country. He has our trust and 
we want all Americans to care­
fully consider his plans to deal 
with the serious problems our 
country faces.
Henry & Edith Irons 
Hot Springs, Arkansas
Carnegie Mollon’s Student Newspaper 
Since 1906
EdltoMn-Chlof...........................Holdl Noovor
Managing Editor..................M.K. Rodgors
Business Mgr.................Timothy S. Blass
Nows Editor....................Brendan McFooly
Forum Editor..........................Aaron Jenkins-
Sports Editor..............................Josh Under
Features Editor.....................Megan Dlotz
Diversions Editors ....Barbara Reyes 
Tara M. Seman 
Calendar Editor ...Ellen Hendrickson
Magazine Editors..................Marnl Borek
Daniel Frey 
Dossier Literary Ed. Michael Gabriel
Dossier Design Ed.......Glen Hoffman
Art Editor..............................Ramsey Hong
Photo Editor.......................Josh Freeman
Production Mgr..........................Tina L. Urso
Personnel Mgr..............Ignatius Sasmlta
Copy Manager..............Jennifer Forbes
Systems Mgr..................Chad McDanlel
Asst. Business Mgr............Derek Fung
Jin Yong
Asst. News Editor ....Kendrick Chua
Asst. Forum Ed.........Ruth Rasmussen
Asst. Sports Ed. ...Andy Glendlnnlng 
Asst. Features Editors ... Laura McClure 
Laura Palanker
Asst. Diversions Ed.................Andy Vaughan
Asst. Art Editor................Samuel Greenfield
Asst. Production Mgrs........Katlo Swnngo
Derek Wnhiin 
Darkroom Manager ..Cosar Sanohez 
Contributing Editors 
Susan Abrams, Tad Dockstador, 
Stephen Qllcker, D.A. Hondorson, 
Mark Hllllor, Doxtor Kobayashl, Rich 
ard Quinn
Sonlor Staff 
Dave Martin, Christian Restifo, Mlko 
Shapiro
Staffwrltors 
Nlcolo Allen, Jeff Baslsta, Trlnotto 
Chandler, Bob Dixon, Bobblo 
Dofflomoyor, Dan Gallagher, Erin 
Grunzke, David Hunt, Jason Irwin, 
Lubomlr KochanskyiJ, Chris Maplos, 
Doclan McCullagh, Corrl Motz, Frank 
Mlchols, Truptl Patol, Paul Platosh, 
Abby Schiff, Androw Sproulo, Kolly 
Sterling, Jason Togyor, Jason Wyso, 
Losllo Zubaty
Art
Jeff Dorsoy, Roy Huang
Comics
Michael Beard, Christian Borlo, Matt 
Goldberg, Jenifor Mulö, Drow Olbrich, 
Elliott Schiff, Jen Thorson
Design 
Matt Adlor
Photo
Debbie Bauer, Kevin Chon, Dlano 
Keen, Seth Redmoro 
Darkroom 
Augustine Kuo 
Production 
Kuo Chlang, Tony "Sting” deFlglo, 
Becky Elroy, Michael Gibson, Otis 
Greene, Michael Peck, Drew 
Shefman
Copy
Erin Bailey, Roshnl Bhakta, Madhav 
Ghanta, Yerin Kay, Lenna Kydes, Anne 
Lopez, Catherine Marquis, Jon 
Stevenson, Patricia Williams 
Business 
Olivia Raharja, Michael Harris 
Junior Staff 
Laura Bentrem, Eric Davis, Nathan 
Dohm, Keegan Folk, Andrea Franclonl, 
Marybeth Griffin, Karen Grunberg, 
Kerry Hagan, Cheryl Harris, Reid 
Hecker, Lauren Heinz, Mike Hofsass, 
Brockett Horne, Alexandra Hunter, 
Arun Jayakumar, Lesley Kay, Mike 
Keating, Ellen Lalumere, Meron 
Langsner, Thomas Lee, Sung Lee, 
Monica Leeke, Nina Liang, Both 
MacDonald, Jackie Maher, Paolo 
Malabuyo, Tanya Maynlgo, Amy 
McGovern, Mac Mlrchandanl, Dizzy 
Murphy, Tonya Rado, Melissa Reaves, 
Syd Rodriguez, Ben Shelton, Ed 
Slavlshak, Jon Slenk, Steph Stine, 
Eric Strauss, lllr Toska, Jen Urso, 
Usa Vltalbo, Mike Walker, Gary Wil­
son
Tho Tartan Is mo student nflwjpepcr of CornegJe Mellon 
University, It 1» o weekly newspaper published I// student» 
during tho fall and spring semesters, fit no cost to members 
ol ca University community. It Is printed by Western Pennsyl­
vania Printing, Inc. Subscript tons ore »reliable for tho to­
rn osier or Academic year, Tho editorial» appearing at tlto 
beginning of the opinion section nro the official opinion of 
Tlio Tartan editorial board, Columns and political cartoon» 
aro tho opinions of Indr/ldual creators. The Tartan re servos 
tho right to reject or condense an-/ column or pollllcol 
cartoon. Letter* to the Editor aro opinions of authors who 
oro usually, but not necessarily, members of tho University 
community. A letter Intended for publication must bo signed 
and include tho writer's address end phono number for 
verification, flames will bo withhold upon request. Tho 
Tartan request# that letters bo no longer than 350 words, 
Tho Tartan reserves tho right to condense or reject any letter, 
Copyright ©199? by Tho Tartan. Tho Tartan editorial board 
reserves the right to withhold from publication any copy It 
deems unfit for publication,
Omco: Skibo 50(412) 2682111 
Mailing oddreos: Tho Tartan/Uo* 17/Carnegie Mellon 
University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890 
17 percent funded by your Activities Poo,
All righto reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN To0890-3107,

---------------------------------------------------

8The Tartan » Carnegie Mellon. » 5 October 1992
u soctnhet
OPINION
5
There’s one thing that ev­
erybody at CMU has in com­
mon — classes. And those 
classes have to be taught by 
professors. You usually love 
them or hate them, since it’s 
hard to feel ambivalent about 
someone who holds your fu­
ture employment in their 
hands. How do you feel 
about yourprofessors this 
semester?
Priya Balchandani 
Sophomore
Biology and Chemistry
“All of them know the mate­
rial, butsomeofthemdon’tknow 
how to convey it. They also give 
too much work.”
Sidney Neill 
Senior
Creative Writing
“Most are great — but I have 
a professor down at Pitt who is 
boring as hell. On the whole, 
creative writing professors are 
the nicest I’ve had at this school.”
Peter DeBonte
Freshman
CIT
“The majority are great. Hugh 
[Young] is funny, and I like pro­
fessors with a sense of humor.”
Gin Chow 
Senior
Mechanical Engineering
“Actually, they’re pretty good. 
I’ve heard a lot about them be­
fore, and most of them live up to 
their reputation.”
Guy Paquette/Tartan Photographer
Thembi Kimbrough
Senior
EDS
“They’ve been good, but I wish 
the IM department would have 
review sessions before tests. 
Also, when you ask a question, 
they need to respond in a way 
that’seasyto understand. Other 
than that, they have all been 
very helpful.”
Religious right endangers America’s civil rights
David Hunt
While campaigning for the presidency, George 
Bush stopped at Chicago’s O’Hare Airport on Au­
gust 27, 1987; Suppose the following exchange 
took place at a press conference:
Questioner. What will you do to win the votes of 
Americans who are Black?
Bush: I guess I’m pretty weak in the Black 
community. Being White is important to me.
Questioner. Surely you recognize the equal citi­
zenship and patriotism of Americans who are Black?
Bush'. No, I don’t think that Blacks should be 
considered citizens, nor Bhould they be considered 
patriots. This is a White nation.
Questioner: Do you support as a sound Constitu­
tional principle the concept of equality?
Busli: Yes, I support equality. I’m just not very 
high on Blacks.
Had ho actually said this about the black com­
munity, ho would never have been elected. His true 
words wcro aimed at atheists, and showed his 
contempt for religious freedom and, just as clearly, 
his bigotry.
Tho Religious Right is a growing movement in 
this country. Pat Robertson and other zealots are 
waging a war against those principles upon which 
our country was founded: Free Spoech, Freodom of 
(and from) Religion, the right to bo secure in ono’s 
homo, to decide when to have children, tho right to 
love whom you chooso, and tho right to a quality 
education whoro facts are taught instead of reli­
gious dogma.
Bush’s attitude is typical of many religious 
righters. Richard John Neuhaus wrote "Can Athe­
ists Be Good Citizens?” in First Things (Aug./Sept.
1991), a Catholic newsletter founded by Neuhaus. 
He paraphrases Locke and Rousseau, whose writ­
ings influenced the Founding Fathers. He men­
tions that these philosophers felt that atheists are 
not trustworthy nor worthy of citizenship, since 
atheists do not acknowledge any accountability to 
god.
Pat Robertson, the epitome of the reactionary 
right, has similar opinions. Among other things, he 
believes that god can work through a prophet to 
exterminate an unregenerate human group. He 
believes himself a prophet, and on January 11, 
1985 said that only ultra-religious Christians and 
Jews are qualified to have the reigns of govern­
ment. What of the rest of us? Will god, through his 
Prophet Pat Robertson, call for our extermination?
Less than a year ago I heard a preacher on a 
Christian radio station. He was reading from the 
bible and how it commanded the Israelites to stone 
unbelievers. He said “we” are living in a society of 
heathen, and that the time is coming when this 
“cancer” must be excised. He then said, as exactly 
as I can remember, “These are troubled times, my 
friends, and small measures will not do."
The Christian Coalition, organized by Pat 
Robertson, now has over 200 chapters and 140,000 
members. Its primary goal is to mobilize 20 million 
radical right Christian voters, and to train 5000 
political candidates on all levels. Some of its stated 
goalsare making abortion illegal, reinstatingChris- 
tian school prayer, and protectingpublically-funded 
Christian religious symbols.
In San Diego, it elected 60 candidates whose only 
qualification was their stance on abortion. La Mesa 
school trustee Don Smith announced his plan for 
the school district: “We want to have it like it was 
100 years ago, when God, the Ten Commandments 
and prayer were the focus of our schools and where 
morality was taught.” In Oceanside, school board 
member Dean Szabo held a bible and said, “There 
are the laws of... California, and there are also the 
laws ... written in this book.” Pittsburgh’s own
Have you been awarded a
sPirald 1/Al
for the 1992-93 academicyear•?
If you have, you MUST sign a promissory note and a disclosure statement in order to borrow a Perkins Loan.
You are required to 
report to Grey Matter (Skibo) on:
Monday, Octobcr 19, 1992, 9:00 am - 4:00 pm
or
Tuesday, October 20, 1992, 9:00 am - 4:00 pm
to sign your notes.
Thank you!
Bishop O’Connor said, ‘To hell with the U.S. Con­
stitution.”
Nationwide, 450 born-again candidates won seats 
on school boards last year. According to moderate 
Republican Majorie Van Nuis, the radicals ran “a 
stealth campaign. They made no public appear­
ances, they didn’t issue any statements [or] attend 
candidate forums, and they won over-whelmingly 
... They can wreak havoc in our schools, on hospital 
boards, and on planning groups.”
The Religious Right often relies on the writings 
of the Founding Fathers for support. Yet most of 
them were Deists, with some agnostics and, un­
doubtedly, a few atheists. Thomas Jefferson said, 
in a letter to John Adams dated April 11, 1823, 
“And the day will come when the mystical genera­
tion of Jesus, by the Supreme Being as his father, 
in the womb of a virgin, will be classed with the
fable of the generation of Minerva in the brain of 
Jupiter.” Madison, Franklin, and Paine expressed 
similar sentiments. The U.S. even distanced itself 
from Christianity in the original draft of the Treaty 
of Tripoli, 1797, where George Washington wrote, 
“The government of the United States is not in any 
sense founded in the Christian Religion.”
Fortunately, most Christians adhere to the te­
nets of their faith and “Judge not, lest they be 
judged.” Still, we must be vigilant or, as General 
Lafayette said in 1789, “If the liberties of the 
American people are ever destroyed, they will fall 
by the hands of the Clergy,” and our nation will 
become just like another nation under god — Iran.
David Hunt is a mechanical engineering gradu­
ate student who is a rabid atheist, a secular human­
ist, and a pro-choice supporter — and he votes!
Class‘93
Sometimes
YouCan
Believe Every thins 
You Hear
AMDP
The Prudential’s Advanced Management Development Program has 
earned a reputation as one of the most challenging and supportive 
programs for developing business leaders at an accelerated pace. It’s 
a reputation that’s well deserved.
We're looking for graduates with a Liberal Arts or Business Infor­
mation Systems background. If you’re a highly motivated exceptional 
student, we invite you to learn more about us. An equal opportunity 
employer.
Information Session 
Monday, October 5th at 7:00 P.M. 
Hearth Dining Room, College Club 
143 Craig Street
2CPsiLUPlSaAE vm/j

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
Football stunned by Gators
i Record drops to 2-2 after 35-21 loss to Allegheny College
PRESS PASS
by Paul Platosh
liter shaves s head inhiprotest
By DAVE MARTIN
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
On Saturday afternoon, the 
Carnegie Mellon Tartans football 
team traveled to Allegheny Col-
j Today, I shaved my head. I 
didn’t just snip away my bangs, 
or trim my sideburns ultra- 
high. I mean, I really shaved 
my head. Go to your refrigera­
tor, or Highlander, or Giant 
' Eagle, and pick up a peach.
.JFeel that texture? That’s what 
¡my head looks and feels like.
The first question that pops 
into mind might be — Why?
I wish I could tell you that 
my hair fell to the ground in 
honor of Magic Johnson’s 
return to the NBA, coming 
straight out of retirement. Or 
maybe I’m saluting Lariy Bird’s 
decision to retire from the 
game, an embattled, grizzled 
warrior from one of the world’s 
most physical sports.
I wish I could look at you 
d say, “I shaved my head 
ecause I support the Carnegie 
Mellon Volleyball Team’s 
triumphant efforts at weaning 
some support from the student 
body.” But that would be an 
outright lie.
I want to say that the reason 
Mr. Clean calls me “Baldy” is 
because I support Pittsburgh 
Steelers’ Linebacker Jack 
Lambert’s decision to throw up 
his hands, saying he’d had 
enough of the game, knowing 
enough was enough. Even now, 
his visage casts its disapprov­
ing gaze upon my melon from 
the side of an Iron City Beer 
can.
I Even better, I could say that 
I’m protesting Manon 
Rheaume’s exploitation by the 
NHL’s Tampa Bay Lightning 
and Phil Esposito. I could 
protest her landmark 20 
minutes in the National Hockey 
League. But that’s not the 
reason why I did it.
Maybe I’m actually celebrat­
ing. I’m celebrating the Pirate’s 
third NL East title. Back to 
back titles. And I cast my hopes 
and aspirations to the wind, to 
the World Series glory that 
could come to the Steel City. 
But, this still doesn’t explain 
why I shaved my head.
The truth is, that I have but 
one reason. No, I’m not enter­
ing a Kojak look-alike contest. 
My head is a symbol of rejec­
tion. I reject the direction that 
contemporary sports have 
taken. Gone are the days 
where sports were a noble 
pursuit.
: Today, athletes making 
millions of dollars cry that 
that’s not enough. “I’m only 
making $250,000. Other play­
ers make more,” said Pitts­
burgh Penguins defender Ulf 
Samuelsson. My heart cries for 
you, Ulfie. You’re only making 
a quarter of a million dollars. 
What a shame, 
j That’s why I’m bald. It 
won’t solve anything, I agree. 
But every time I look in the 
mirror, I’ll think of a better 
time, a time of Babe Ruth, Joe 
“The Phantom” Mallone, and 
Lynn Swan. And maybe then, 
when I look down the road, the 
road of sports writing, I’ll take 
comfort. For now its just greed, 
vanity, and sycophantic self- 
deception that twisted the 
sporting world into one monu­
mental injustice collector. 
Welcome to the next genera­tion.
Tartan Staffwriter Paul 
,jPlatosh is a sophomore creative 
. and professional writing major.
of scrimmage to turn what should 
have been a three-yard gainer 
into a 26-yard touchdown scam­
per.
Carnegie Mellon started to 
show signs of life in the second 
lege to take on the Gators in what quarter, movingthe offense some- 
was being touted by both teams what slowly down the field. But, 
as “a playoff atmosphere.” Going when CMU began to threaten, 
into the game, both teams had Allegheny’s defense rose to the
suffered one loss and neither 
could afford another if they were 
to have much of a chance at the 
Division III playoffs; however, the 
Tartans came up short, losing by 
a score of35-21. If this game was 
any indication of things to come, 
Allegheny could prove to be a 
national champion contender.
The first quarter usually proves 
to be a feeling-out period, where 
the two teams measure one an­
other and try to get ideas about 
what will work and what won’t, 
especially going into a game with 
a lot on the line. Allegheny struck 
on its first possession, though, on 
a short pass that turned into a 
64-yard touchdown reception and 
gave the spirited Gators a 7-0 
lead. Allegheny scored again un­
der similar circumstances, aB its 
star running back, Stanley 
Drayton, broke tackles at the line
occasion, and forced the Tartans 
to punt. Allegheny’s offense 
proved it wasn’t only a big play 
offense by putting together a sus­
tained drive that resultedin noth­
ing as CMU’s defense got stingy. 
The offense didn’t share the 
defense’s attitude, as sophomore 
Chris Dee threw the ball into a 
crowd and Allegheny came up 
with its second interception of 
the day. Just two plays later, Al­
legheny scored a third touchdown, 
this one a six-yard touchdown 
pass from quarterback Paul Bell, 
his second of four on the day. 
CMU went into the locker room 
at the half down 21-0.
Allegheny got the first posses­
sion of the second half and con­
tinued its capitalization on CMU 
mistakes and good field position. 
Amissed assignment and a couple 
missed tackles earned the Gators
a 58-yard touchdown pass and 
run from Bell to Drayton. The 
Gators ended their scoring a se- 
rieslaterona 50-yard touchdown 
pass, putting Allegheny up a 
seemingly insurmountable 35-0. 
On Allegheny’s next possession, 
CMU’s defense began to pull to­
gether, as junior Chad Wilson 
tumedinabiginterception about 
midway through the third quar­
ter. Junior fullback Brian Horton 
plowed three yards for the Tar­
tans’ first score of the day, mak­
ing good the Allegheny turnover.
The next Carnegie Mellon pos­
session came to a head in the 
fourth quarter as the Tartans 
came to life both offensively and 
defensively against Allegheny’s 
second-string players. A long, 
time-consuming drive held to­
gether by two fourth-down con­
versions for the Tartans culmi­
nated in a 2-yard touchdown run 
for sophomore Jason Grusky. 
With 13:54 remaining in the 
game, Allegheny’s first string 
quarterback and running back 
returned after sitting out threo 
ineffective serieB, but the CMU 
defense shut down the high-pow­
ered players rather quickly, only 
to be punted into bad field posi­
tion, as had been the case the 
entire afternoon. Carnegie 
Melion’s offense began to move 
the ball against the first team 
defense of Allegheny, until a 
poorly delivered Dee pass turned 
into an Allegheny interception. 
Allegheny wasunabletodo much 
with the ball, as Drayton fumbled 
and the Tartans recovered. The 
Tartans moved the ball slowly 
down the field, and on a fourth- 
and-10 from the Allegheny 15 
yard line Dee threw his only 
touchdown pass of the game to 
junior receiver Andy Van Sprang 
to close the gap to a final of 35- 
21.
CMU only managed to play the 
half of the game, gaining 212 of 
its 288 total yards in the second 
half. Only 132 ofthose yards came 
off the usunlly powerful running 
game, with junior Ed Ruland lead­
ing tho rushors for CMU with 
only 38 yards on 11 carries. Deo 
gathered tho romaindor of tho 
yardB through tho air, complet­
ing 15 of 39 paBB attompts for 159 
yards and ono touchdown, but 
throw four interceptions. Dofon- 
sivoly for tho Tartans, Wilson 
stood out with 11 tacklos and an 
intorcoption. Junior Jorry Fullor
also had an interception for the 
Tartans. On the other side of the 
ball, however, CMU’s defensive 
mistakes showed in the Allegh­
eny stats. The Gators accrued 
422 total yards, most of them in 
the first half. Drayton ran for 109 
yards on 24 carries while Bell 
threw for 227 yards and four 
touchdowns with nearly 75 per­
cent completion
Coach Rich Lackner said, “We 
got way down but we didn’t give 
up. That was one positive thing 
about the game. Defensively, we 
missed too many tackles and of­
fensively we couldn’t get anything 
going. We’ve been sputtering 
early on offense the last couple 
games. We’ve got to do a better 
job of playing 60 minutes of foot­
ball.”
Wilson said after tho game, “We 
can win games if wo don’t givo up 
the big plays. [Saturday] wo gave 
up tho big plays. Wo playod well 
at timos, but wo had too many 
niissod tacklos and too many that 
thoy thon capitalized on."
Falling to a 2-2 record on tho 
yoar with only fivo games remain­
ing, tho Tartans soom to liavo 
fallen out of tho playoff picture, 
at loast for now.
Score by Quarters 12 3 4 Final
Carnegie Mellon (2-2) 0 0 7 14 21
Allegheny (3-1) 14 7 14 0 35
Scoring
AC - Q1 - Bill Miller 64 yd pass from Paul Bell (Chris Merski PAT)
AC - Q1 - Stanley Drayton 26 yd run (Merski PAT)
AC - Q2 - Kurt Reiser 6 yd pass from Bell (Merski PAT)
AC - Q3 - Drayton 58 yd pass from Bell (Merski PAT)
AC - Q3 - Andy McKenzie 50 yd pass from Bell (Merski PAT)
CMU - Q3 - Brian Horton 3 yd run (Fred Harding PAT)
CMU - Q4 - Jason Grusky 2 yd mn (Harding PAT)
CMU - Q4 - Andy Van Sprang 15 yd pass (Harding PAT)
Team StatisticsCarnegie MellonAllegheny
First Downs2216
Net Yards Rushing132195
Net Yards Passing156227Passes — Att.-Comp.-lnt.39-15-415-9-2
Total Offense288422
Punts — Average8-37.46-44.5
Fumbles — Lost1-05-2
Penatles — Yards5-509-87
Time of Possession31:1028:50
IndivduaI Statistics 
Rushing
CMU,Grusky 12-36-1, Ruland 11-38-0, Horton 3-24-1; AC, Drayton 24-109- 
1, Bell 5-42-0, Bremer 10-34-0
Passing
CMU, Dee 15-39-156-1-4; AC, Bell 9-13-227-^-0 
Receiving
CMU, Van Sprang 7-108-1, Horton 4-19-0; AC, Reiser 3-36-1, Miller 2-71- 
1, McKensie 2-54-1, Drayton 1-58-1Mike Harris/Tartan photographer
Sophomore halfback Jason Grusky rushes In recent football action. He scored once In the 
Tartan’s defeat to Allegheny.
Women’s soccer improves play
By GARY WILSON
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Coming off a 4-0 victory against 
Robert Morris, the women soccer 
team prepared to play NAIA pow­
erhouse Seton Hill. Seton Hill 
proved why they’re nationally 
ranked, as they defeated Carn­
egie Mellon, 3-0.
Overall, it was a well-played 
defensive game. The first half 
was balanced out as far as offen­
sive chances go. Junior defense- 
man, Anh Nguyen, opened up the 
excitement fifteen minutes into 
the game with a wild shot from 
midfield. The ball took a monster 
bounce over the goalie’s head, and 
just over the crossbar.
This play seemed to serve as a 
wakeup call for the Seton Hill 
offense. Immediately, they be­
gan to attack furiously, getting 
several good scoring opportuni­
ties. The CMU defense did a good 
job of holding off these attacks 
and prevented them from getting
any good shots on goal.
Eventually, the game evened 
out again. Play continued until 
the six minute mark, when the 
Seton Hill offense finally broke 
through. Freshman forward 
Michelle Fischer took possession 
of the ball at the comer of the 
eighteen and fired a shot on goal. 
The ball took a nasty bounce and 
bounded right past the goaltender 
for a 1-0 lead.
The second half was not as even 
of a matchup as the first. Straight 
from the kickoff, Seton Hill took 
control of the game. They chewed 
away at the defense before fi­
nally adding another goal at 7:45 
into the period. The ball was 
played into the penalty area, 
where it was knocked around by 
both teams like one of those little 
beans in a Mexican morocca. 
Seton Hill midfielder Nicole 
Benthus ended the festivities by 
poking the ball into the net for a
2-0 lead.
After that, Seton Hill refused
to let up. They continued to apply 
intense pressure. Junior 
goaltender, Trish Henrich, kept 
CMU in the game at 12:00 with 
an outstanding save. Seton Hill 
was on a clear breakaway when 
Henrich slid out to knock the ball 
to safety.
At this point in the game, Car­
negie Mellon seemed tohave some 
difficulty with communication as 
they made a few confusing mis­
takes. At 23:35, Seton Hill capi­
talized on a giveaway. Senior for­
ward Teresa Simasek blew past 
the defense with incredible speed 
and slipped the ball past the goalie 
to close the scoring for the night.
CMU continued to fight back 
late in the game, getting some of 
their best scoring opportunities. 
The best chance came with about 
five minutes remaining. The of­
fensive duo of Anita Sheth and 
Christina Isaly nearly connected 
for what would have been a beau­
tiful goal. Sheth took the ball 
towards the comer and crossed it
to Isaly. Isaly appeared to have 
been tripped up by the goalie and 
was unable to finish the play.
The remaining five minutes 
proved to be the most exciting 
moments of the game. However, 
the score remained 3-0.
Seton Hill, who was playing 
without star fullback Tammy 
Hoeflein, increased their record 
to 7—1. CMU went to 2-6 on the 
season.
The team was not expected to 
do really well this season, as it is 
their first year in the UAA. Ac­
cording to coach Julie Shackford, 
“It’s a new experience with the 
traveling and stuff, but we’ve still 
managed to be competitive.” The 
team did some traveling this 
weekend, as they ventured to play 
Brandeis, then to play Rochester. 
She added that the team has not 
really made any specific changes 
in their style of play to accommo­
date the new division they’re play­
ing in. -
In action this weekend, the
women dropped two disappoint­
ing matches. On Friday, they 
lost to Brandeis University at 
Brandeis by a margin of 4-0. On 
Sunday, hoping to remedy the 
loss, they lost to University of 
Rochester by the samemark. The 
Tartans woman's soccer record 
stands at 2-8.
The women play at home, Tues­
day night against Washington 
and Jefferson College. The game 
is scheduled to start at 7:30 pm.
In Soorts...
Men's soccer splits two
games on road trip.........11
Free agents pose a problem 
to professional football.... 11
Intramural cross country meet 
to be held on October 14.. 13

---------------------------------------------------

I
I
R
Ap , mj p .
1 p 3 7 J
~ — r, r Ipr r-~ — rr'/''VS/?' r. ^ n
M~0 \ S J Ï Z
X~ 15 HÏ9 20 2-26
i- r- - r- rr r r-/ y ' / / V Vr - r> r r r
Se tk i* *v
C c ; £ ç b Çrr S -S rr rr rr rrE C ¿ C Ç C O
> > > > > > >
You can load your shelves with these.
|.i i ' .v.. j
Apple Macintosh PowerBook 145 4/40 Apple Macintosh Classic IIApple Macintosh I.C IIApple Macintosh lisi
or buy a Macintosh that’s already loaded.
Get a great value on your choice of these Apple" Macintosh” But hurry, because student aid like this is only available through
computers plus over $400 worth of ¡^reloaded software: The American Oct. 15,1992 - and only from your authorized Apple campus reseller. 
Heritage Dictionary with Roget’s Thesaurus, the Random House ^ . . . . , , ,
Encyclopedia, Correct Grammar, ResumeWriter and Calendar Creator. gT4 9pE4alSntl /S54E4lS uE4E g j.4mpEb4. y
For more information visit the Carnegie Mellon Computer Store or call 268-2636
i» nlim.iiK'• •! \p|>!H,.mi|<iiU’i Itti 
>1 Hie Nitii ii'.ii. II. I»!•Mji ii,lie'll I ......
ft:
2'3;
05.
x* .e iSi
Finding your place 
in the corporate world.
s
R***tt
There's nothing worse than trying to force your talent into a place where it 
just doesn't fit
This is especially true if you're looking for technical challenges that are out 
of the ordinary. And if you want to work at a company whose philosophy 
encourages individuality, not conformity.
Maybe the perfect niche for you is at The Aerospace Corporation.
For one thing, our product is ideas, not hardware. And in helping us 
develop ideas, you'll combine your talents with some of the sharpest scientific 
and technical minds in the field. People from a wide diversity of disciplines 
who share a passion for doing great work.
Find out if this is, in fact, the right place for youi career. Contact us about 
any of the following opportunities:
• Satellite Integration & Test
• Survivability/Vulnerability
• Spacecraft Development
• Mission Control Hardware Engineer 
• Software Engineering/System Test 
• Software Engineering/Quality Assurance 
• Computer Systems Engineering 
• Technical Cost/Schedule Analysis
• Solid/Liquid Propulsion Systems Engineers
• Avionics Systems Engineers
• Inertial Guidance Systems Engineers
• Flight Mechanics Engineers
• Upper Stage Flight Operations
• Electronics Technology & Applications
• Guidance k Navigation Engineer
• Metallurgical Manufacturing Engineer
• Satellite Propulsion Systems
• Space & Launch Vehicle Ground Test
• Composites/Adhesive Bonding Manufacturing
• Product Assurance Engineer
• System Safety Engineer
• System Analyst
• Failure Analysis Engineer
• Tracking & Telemetry & Command Systems
• Communications Systems
• Radar Systems Engineer
• EO Sensor Systems Engineer
• Signal Processing
• Digital Image Processing
• Circuit Design & Simulation
• Product Engineer
• Materials & Process Engineer
• Component Engineer
• Reliability' Analysis Engineer 
. • Electronic Systems Design
• Bearing/Mechanical Drives
• Mass Properties
Candidates with MS or PhD in Science or Engineering are preferred. 
Interested and qualified candidates are required to have U.S. citizenship.
In exchange for your contributions, we offer competitive compensation 
and exceptional benefits. Be part of a company that offers the stimulation of 
continual challenge. Send your resume to: The Aerospace Corporation, 
Human Resources, Professional Placement, M3/118, P.O. Box 92957, Dept. 
ZC9-71, Los Angeles, CA 90009. Equal Opportunity Employer. Proof of U.S. 
Citizenship required.
We will be interviewing on campusOctober 9that the Placement Office, Room 19, in Warner Hall
^1 jTlie Aerospace Corporation
We have space for your imagination.
g

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 5 October 199211
smess Opportunities Conference
in your resume to theturn
J(oAV/id included ¡Industrial Management,Economics, Graphic Communications, Statistics, Information and Decision Sciences, Operations Research,or anyone interested in a career in business.
Men's soccer splits two weekend games
By EKIC SRAUSS
Tartan Staffwriter 
This weekend, The Tartan men’s soccer team 
ran its record to 6-2 by splitting their two games 
with Brandeis University and the University of 
Rochester. Although the Tartans were hoping 
to set a new CMU mark with five straight wins, 
they failed to do so by losing a heartbreaker to 
Brandeis by the score of 2-1, gaining the one 
goal by sophomore Alex Amezquita. However, 
the Tartans rebounded against Rochester, shut­
ting them out by a margin of 2-0. In the Roch­
ester game, Min Chong and Mike Brazinski 
scored the goals in goaltender Dave Shapiro’s 
fifth shutout of the year.
Shapiro’s shutout gave him 20 in his career, 
tyingthe CMU career mark held by Sam Montague, 
who played from 1983-1985.
On Tuesday, the men trounced Waynesburg 
College, 6-0, behind Amezquita, who continued to 
be a force on offense, picking up two more goals. 
Freshman Alan Levin also had two scores for the 
Tartans in support of goalkeepers Shapiro, Dan 
Warren and John Moran.
This week, the Tartans travel down Forbes Av­
enue to take on the University of Pittsburgh on 
Wednesday, and then travel to Westminster on 
Saturday as they wind down a tough road sched­
ule, which has them on the road for five straight 
contests.
Look what's happening 
in Student Senate!
We have vacant seats. These can be filled by YOU! Just pick up a petition at the Skibo Info Desk and return it with at least 25 signatures as soon as possible.
SEATS AVAILABLE: 1 MCS, 1 GSIA, 1 H&SS, 1 SCS, 1 Miscellaneous, 2 Heinz, 2 CFA, and 2 CIT.As a means of getting feedback from the CMU community, Senate now has space available on the Organization 
Server in the Skibo zone, on the campus AppleTalk network. Just log in as a Guest, open the "Student Senate" folder, and find the drop folder labeled "Suggestions." Our PR people will forward suggestions to the proper people as soon as possible!
Also, ,Senator Burt Holzman (CIT) wishes to publicize his office hours: Thursdays, from 6-8 pm, Burt will be in the Student Senate Office, available to answer questions and solicit ideas from the student body.
Free agency ruining pro football
wrong. Because there are some of 
those franchise players I justdon’t 
care too much for. And besides, I 
like to bo able to keep up with 
who plnya where. That’s one ad­
vantage football has over basket­
ball and hockey, you know where 
your favorite players will be from 
week to week.
Speaking of things week-to- 
week, it’s time for my predictions. 
Buffalo will be going out west to 
play the hapless Raiders. The 
struggle in Los Angeles is a sur­
prise, but the outcome of the game 
won’t be. Buffalo by a lot. Hous­
ton and Cincinnati square off in 
an interesting divisional game. 
Take Cincy at home. The Steelers 
won’t drop passes against Cleve­
land like they did against Green 
Bay. Take the Steelers. The Jets 
should beat the Colts handily. 
Kansas City over Philadelphia in 
an interesting game. Atlanta over 
Miami. San Francisco easily over 
the Patriots. Dallas at home over 
the Seahawks. New Orleans over 
the Rams in the Superdome. The 
Giants need the win overthe Car­
dinals, they’ll get it.
As for tonight’s Monday night 
game, it should prove to be in­
triguing, not to mention a great 
game. The Eagles just lost tight 
end Keith Jackson to the rigors of 
an NFL with a strange free agency 
system. The Cowboys have been 
playing well thus far. A rivalry 
that’s lost some of its spark since 
Buddy Ryan was fired in Phila­
delphia, the game should prove 
to be a definite marker for both 
teams. Take the Eagles by less 
than five.
That’s about it for this week. 
When you’re out on the football 
field playing intramural touch 
football, be glad that there aren’t 
any salaries or other benefits, 
you could lose your best playerB 
to the fraternity team that buys 
the most beer!
Tartan Senior Staffwriter Dave 
Martin is a junior psychology 
major.
contract—maybe during his first 
few years. It’s up to the agents 
and managers to agree on when, 
how long, etc. The team’s busi­
ness people keep up with who’s 
unprotected during what years of 
their contracts, and try to work it 
so that they don’t stand to lose all 
their franchise players at once. 
But, if they have to reduce the 
number of players they can pro­
tect during a year, the chance 
increases that in one year, they 
could stand to lose the quarter­
back who has taken them to the 
playoffs four years running and 
the linebacker that made their 
defense the best for the last six 
years. Of course, there’s the ar­
gument that franchise players are 
protected by special clauses in 
contracts, the owners see to that. 
But, maybe the quarterback isn’t 
necessarily a franchise player, in 
other words, the team wasn't built 
around him. Losing one player 
would be extremely detrimental 
to the team. Losing both would 
destroy the team for a year.
Then there’s the question of 
parity, the idea that teams should 
be as equal as possible to make 
the playoffs year to year. This 
means that teams that have his­
torically had bad win-loss ratios 
will play other teams with bad 
win-loss ratios more often, so that 
one of the horrible teams might 
strut their stuffin a playoff game. 
(And get crushed by a superior 
team.) The ideal of parity also 
lies behind the ability ofteams to 
bargain for good players. But 
parity has nothing to do with free 
agency.
Free agency is one of those det­
rimental ideas that the NFL Play­
ers Union came up with. I sup­
pose it’s meant to replicate some 
sort of worker security plan. But 
it just doesn’t fit that the players 
can see a number elsewhere, in 
the middle of the season, and 
decide to go for it. It would only 
secure the teams who have true 
franchise players of ever being 
successful. And that, I think, is
NFL FOOTBALL
by Dave Martin
Free agency is weird thing. It 
lets players come and go as they 
please, creating havoc for both 
the teams they leave and the 
teams they join. There was along, 
drawn-out trial about how many 
players could be protected by a 
team, and the verdict was in fa­
vor of the players. N amely, teams 
should reduce the number of play­
ers they can protect because the 
current system is too restrictive. 
Fine. But a revised, less protec­
tive system is going to play hell 
with fans of the National Foot­
ball League.
Currently, 37 players are pro­
tected, which means that they 
are on the team, no ifs, ands, or 
buts. The only time that protected 
players can leave is if there is a 
contract dispute. That leaves 
spven players unprotected, avail­
able to pick up and go if someone 
offers them more, but they are on 
the team. The current plan is 
usually only operative during the 
off-season. I don’t know whether 
there is a time curtailment on 
how long during the season a 
player can be protected (though I 
believe there is), but it makes me 
wonder exactly how a team can 
expect to stay together during 
the course of the year if, at any 
time, a team, say Miami, says 
“We want Keith Jackson” and 
offers him. a sum of money his 
agentwon’t refuse and then Jack­
son leaves. Since this just hap­
pened, I don’t think I’m out of line 
wondering this.
A player can write a number of 
years of free agency into his con­
tract, usually to be enacted in the 
latter years of the length Of his
Submit 40 copies, one-sided, printed on resume paper Resume Deadline: 5:00 p.m.,Thursday, October 24.
Bring resumes to GSiA Room 206.BOC staff will be available in front of Doherty Hall on Wednesday, October 23, and Thursday, October 24.
Questions or comments? Contact us at x2115 in the Student Govern­ment Office in Tartan Loft, or E-mail student-senate@CMU.EDU. Funded by your student activities fee.
The HOC ih II join! effort liiHm*n AJ.MK mid GC.MSO. Wir r«*irrvir llnr ridili lo rateimi«' miiimr* from lin: Hoiim.« Hook. For fuidur 
information. plruiMT couturi Pirlcr Chung ul 6111-7276 mul prri-liWCMll.EDU, or Belli Motten ul ‘93In mul liiii&Miiitilrrw.

---------------------------------------------------

.-S enate
Friday, October 2, 1992 
8:30 am - 4:30 pm 
Skibo Room 12
Thursday, October 15, 1992 
8:30 am - 4 pm 
Morewood Gardens Rec Room
Recommended for:
g. -lUaIaULAEd KK 'PAid /f ANP AlU /EUPi.
O. -lUaIaULAEd yaSC pCi/lap ELlN /i CPAiS Di/)EPxd 
alpELUalN AdSCxA.
j. -lUaIaULAEd yC/ CAIP iPwLaiPU iPNLEAi xPUapAE 
f/EE/y“LD /i C/dDaSAEa”ASa/l ULialN SCP DiPpPUalN 'PAi 
)PpALdP /f UadPAdPd alpELUalN UaA)PSPd— dPIPiP raUlP' 
Di/)EPxd— /i Di/)EPxd yaSC SCP axxLlP d'dSPx.
v. -lUaIaULAEd yC/ AiP SAralN xPUapASa/ld SCAS 
dLiDiPdd SCP axxLlP d'dSPx.
K. 2PPlANPid— LD S/ AlU alpELUalN g’ 'PAid /f ANP— /l 
E/lN SPix AdDaial SCPiAD'.
IT S FREE!!
Sponsored by the Student Health Services and Student Affairs
Subscribe Now by Calling: 456-2670: For groups of 20 or more call: 471-6930.uchsth©9n ePira9P lsr. dh/snAarhs
Broadway al Ihe Fulton, sponsored by Miles Inc. Foundation, is presented by the Pittsburgh Cultural Trusl S DACE Theatrical Gioup In.
y.A.P.C. tye /
-/)ssocza/zb*f, //¿e I Æ 
rtef/rtf/ej fîocLrrf fardi/i/fy V 
Iriûtfcyoùt lo ¿ttftTfd.Ç:
JmonAMD 
PMv/jj/jvbb
Fon % per perfori
'iJtfy Gui-éai/st
BALLROOM
Jr/f/er-/#/'s?/?jesfY 
Yùctr d'cr/tVi’-ft'es
ÌMKLm
h/m
f5 /a¿/e t-y c/'
2, V, Crf§t /> pagaL2ed.
I
'R.5. V. P ^ ùd/^er ¿/ùì /l/amq/ 
O/f/ce - 50/7 Torje 's Aye/itu, 2nd//ocr
-é0 ^/prri ,
HOW WOULD YOU 
ANSWER THESE 
QUESTIONS?
Do you. . .w
CAIP UaffapLES' UadpPilalN yCAS ad
axD/iSAlS Ad '/L iPAU A SPkS)U
faladC iPAUalN A SPkS)//r pCADS 
SCAS '/L U/leS iPxPx)Pi xLpC 
'/L CAEP iPAU8
CAIP Si/L)EPxAralN p/llPpSa/ld )PSyPPl 
yCAS '/L iPAU al '/Li SPkS)//rd AlU yCAS 
'/L AiP EPAilalN al pEAV
iPAU S// dE/yE'8
falU SCAS '/L AiP AEyA'd )PCVfaU al iPAUalN 
AddaNlxPlSd8
-f '/L AldyPiPU 'Pd S/ Al' /f SCPdP wLPdSa/ld /i af '/L 
AiP VLdS alSPiPdSPU al axDi/IalN '/Li iPAUalN draEEd— SCP 
4iaSapAE cPAUalN pEAdd pAl CPED '/L. 2Cad l/l“piPUaS 
pEAdd )PNald /l 9/lUA'— npS/)Pi gO— g77O AlU yaEE 
xPPS PIPi' 9/lUA' AlU WPUlPdUA' fi/x j,jB S/ v,jB 
Dx f/i dak yPPrd. 2CP pEAdd yaEE AUUiPdd iPAUalN 
p/xDiPCPlda/l draEEd. cPNadSiASa/l ad iPwLaiPU AlU SCP 
pEAdd ad EaxaSPU S/ OB dSLUPlSd.
For more information and/or to register, call Marcia Wratcher or Kim Reed at x6878.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 5 October 199213
IM NewstD/iSd tC/iSd
SPORTS IN SEASON
TOUCH FOOTBALL
Commissioners
Majors — Buddy Feitt, x5371
Intermediate — Kerry Skolkin,
x5302
Minors — Jim Saxon, x5482 
Women Only — Molly Mc­
Dermott, 682-3529 
Playoffs will begin on Thurs­
day, October 8. Please check the 
IM bulletin board for the playoff 
schedule.
TENNIS
Commissioner 
Jon Ferris, x5502 
Please play all games as sched­
uled and report your scores to 
Jon Ferris at x5502. Playoffs will 
begin on Sunday, October 18.
GOLF
Commissioner 
Dave Ekem, x5354 
The U.S. Navy IM golf team 
won the 1992 E. J. Birdy Open 
IM Golf Tournament on Septem- 
ber20. TheNavyteamwasledby 
Jacob Miller’s low score of 81.
CHESS
Commissioner 
Buddy Feitt, x5371 
Schedules came out on October 
2; please pick them up in the IM 
office. Report your match scores 
to the commissioner.
WATER POLO
Commissioners 
Mike Kappus, x5302
Joanne Kievan, x5900 
The 18 teams that signed up 
was a new IM record. Schedules 
can be picked up in the IM office. 
Lifeguard Denise Fenwick, 
x4046, will be on duty during all 
scheduled matches. The IM De­
partment would like to start a co- 
rec water polo league.
CO-REC VOLLEYBALL
Commissioners 
Majors — Ed Pyo, x5515 
Minors — Jim Saxon, x5482 
The co-rec volleyball playoffs 
began on Thursday, October 1. 
Check the IM bulletin board or 
call the IM Office at x2193 or 
x2214.
UPCOMING SPORTS
CROSS COUNTRY
Commissioner 
Buddy Feitt, x5371 
The 1992 Carnegie Mellon IM 
Cross Country meet will be held 
on October 14 starting on Flag 
Staff Hill at 4:30 pm. The course 
is 1.9 miles long. You may run as 
a member of a five-person team 
or as an individual. There will be 
a special heat for women only 
(four- person teams or individu­
als). Everyone is welcome. Sign 
your team up now. Women’s 
teams only need four runners.
SOCCER
Commissioners
Majors — Buddy Feitt, x5371
Intermediate — Dave Ekern,
x5354
Minors — John Stack, 361-0274 
Women Only — Molly Mc­
Dermott, 682-3529 
Entries are due at 4:30 pm on 
October 8. All teams must attend 
the soccer rules clinic at 4:30 pm 
on October 8 in Thistle Hall. All 
team s must attend the clinc. Any­
one interested in officiating in 
the upcoming outdoor IM soccer 
season should contact Assistant 
IM Director Mike Mastroianni at 
x2193 for more information.
BOWLING
Commissioner 
Buddy Feitt, x5371 
Matches will be rolled on the 
Forward Lanes on Forward Av­
enue in Squirrel Hill.
VOLLEYBALL
Commissioners
Majors — Buddy Feitt, x5371
Intermediate — Dave Ekern,
x5354
Entries for six person teams 
are due at 4:30 pm on October 8.
RAQUETBALL
A commissioner is needed for 
raquetball. Entries for teams are 
due at 4:30 pm on October 8.
SPORTS DUE OCTOBER 15
Team Table Tennis, Darts, and 
Fencing are due. Contact Buddy 
(x5371) for Table Tennis and 
Darts, and Randy Bruno for Fenc­
ing.
Compiled by 
JOSH LINDER
CoÊtÂ Seep ag8.•1In1sisdt•
Bored?Stressed Out? Need to Laugh?
McuF nho­
â%
FORBES AVENUE 
below The Attic & Upstage
-h
rbfaSlpdbYpplSpi num1uhq
V Æ EST. 1979 13 YEARS STRONG
• 22 Nautilus Exercise Machines
• Free Weights
• Stairmasters
• Lifecycles
• Complete Lockeroom Facilities
• Open «•' /^ / 9 00 AM. - 7 00 PM SSN /
tso4-u1 
t25qoh2 n©©oc
* BACK-TO-SCHOOL SAVINGS *
* 40% OFF *
^ ¦& ¦& & ik & i? isr
HURRY!
LIMITED TIME OFFER
4u11 2nqu0 G’j“B7BB
Volleyball posts 4-3 at UAA tourney
The Tartan Volleyball team mado a strong show­
ing on September 25-27 at the UAA Round Robin 
Tournament at Brandeis University. Thoy finished 
with a 4-3 record which earned them fifth seedfor 
the UAA Championship Tournament. The Tartans 
went 2-0 in the day-one competition, beating Case 
Western and Emory, each in four games. Day two 
they finished 1-2 beating Brandeis in a three-set 
match, and losing to Washington University and 
the University of Chicago. Day three left them 1-1 
with a three-set loss to Rochester and a three-set 
win against New York University
Men’s cross country bashes Slippery Rock
Tho moil's cross country toam triumphed on 
September 31on a 5.1 milo course with a scoro of 16 
to Slippory Rock's 45. Tho Tartans took tho all of 
the first four places and seven of the top eight 
places. Freshman Mike Rea finished first with a 
timo of 29:11. Tho other CMU finishers were: 
freshman Matt Beam (second, 29:21), senior Kevin 
Pogany (third, 29:56), sophomore Scott Perfater 
(fourth, 30:04), freshman Omar Sharief (sixth, 
33:10), freshman Andy Fletcher (seventh, 33:50), 
and freshman Corey Weber (eighth, 34:44).Compiled by 
ANDY GLEND INNING
Before us lies a new day, and in the distance a new world, ours to create by the strength of our faith.
Rodef Shalom Congregation invites all 
students to be our guests at worship services 
for the High Holy Days.
RODEF SHALOMCONGREGATION 
Fifth Jtul Morcwootl Avenue» 
Piiitburgh. Pi IJ2IJ
Erev Rosh Hashana
Rosli Hashana Morning 
Ercv Yom Kippur
September 27
September 2K 
Octobcr 6
Yom Kippur October 7
.services continue throughout the day)
6:30 pm 
0:15 pm
!() am
6:20 pm 
1>:I5 pm
Mi am
Please call or stop by for complementary tickets in advance. 
621-6566.
classified
JOBSSERVICES
$200-5500 weekly. Assemble products 
at home. Easy! No selling. You're paid 
direct. Fully guaranteed. Free Informa­
tion-24 Hour Hotline. 801-379-2900. 
Copyright # PA11KDH.
Earn 51,500 weekly mailing our 
circulars!... Begin now!... Free packet! 
SEYS, Dept. 256, Box 4000, Cordova, TN 
38018-4000.
Greenpeace. The future is now! We are 
training women and men to build public 
support in Arizona. Learn and implement 
effective activist strategies. Excellent 
work environment, benefits, medical 
insurance and great advancement 
opportunities. Earn $190-$250/week/ 
full-time, part-time, flexible scheduling. 
Call Tony, 421-7344.
Technical consultant needed for local 
growing software firm. Responsibllties 
include providing technical support to 
clients using our psychology experiment- 
generator software package. Require­
ments include working knowledge of 
psychology and DOS. Research and 
programming experience a plus. Part- 
time position with potential for full-time. 
Recent graduates and soon-to-be 
graduates encouraged to apply. 
Transportation required. Send resume 
and cover letter detailing psychology 
and computer experience to: 
Psycholoogy Software Tools, 511 
Bevington Road, Pittsburgh, PA 15221.
.T hertni s.wk
Campus reps wanted. Heatwave 
vacations. Spring break 1993. The best 
rates & the biggest commissions. For 
more information, call 800-395-wave.
COURSE INFO
Dissertation group, ongoing, to add 
members in October. To facilitate 
productivity and creativity, discuss the 
subjective aspects of this process. Private, 
low-fee. For info, Interview, call 421- 
3715, Dr. Singh.
Work group forming In October, to 
facilitate productivity and creativity on 
large projects undertaken after graduate 
school. Modelled after Dissertation 
Group that I have run for a number of 
years. For info, interview, call 421-3715, 
Dr. Singh.
Oakland, 1 block from the "O", 1 BR, 
LR, DR, storage, laundry, Immediate, 
$412 +electric, 6820023.
Partys - Formals - Birthdays - Love. 
Alex's flowers - 687-4128 - Group 
Discounts - Delivery - Corsages start at 
$3.00 - Corner Craig and Bayard - 687- 
Alex. 687-Alex.
TRAVEL
Low student and faculty fares to 
International destinations. ‘‘Good fares 
within the USA. **AYH & Eurail passes.** 
Experienced, friendly service. Hours 9-5 
¦ pm Monday-Friday/10 am-noon 
Saturday. Convenient location: 4608 
Winthrop St. off South Craig St. Call 
Forum Travel 681-4099.
Spring break '93-sell trips, earn cash & 
go freeül Student Travel Services is now 
hiring campus representatives. Ski 
packages also available. Call 1-800-648- 
4849.
Travel free!! Sell the most reliable spring 
break packages! Jamaica, Cancún, 
Bahamas, Florida! Best commissions/ 
service! Sun Splash Tours 1-800-426- 
7710.
VOLUNTEER
Attention female students and staff. 
Researchers at the University of Pitts­
burgh and Magee Women's Hospital are 
conducting a study of how a women's 
hormones influence their responses to 
stress. Blood pressure, heart rate and 
blood samples will be taken at several 
visits over 8 months. Non-smoking 
caucasian women, ages 20-35 years old 
with regular menstrual cycles and not 
taking oral contraceptives are needed to 
participate in this study. Participants will 
receive Important health information and 
monetary compensation. For more 
information, please call Leslie at 624- 
7423.
Classified Policy
Deadline
Deadline for submission of 
classifieds to The Tartan Is 5 
pm the Thursday before pub­
lication.
Rates
1-20 words...........$5.00 per
week
21-50 words.........$8.00 per
week
50-100 words.....$10.00 per
week
•Classifieds must be paid by cash or check before the first scheduled run date.
•On-campus departments 
and organizations may pay 
by journal transfer with a 
valid account number.
•Classifieds are not subject to 
discounts applicable to 
display ads.
•Classifieds reach a wide 
audience.---------------------------
tPlU'/LiAUyaSC 
DA'xPlS S/UA'. 
tPP '/Li AU al 
DialS lPkS yPPrzz
The Tartan Publishing Schedule
October 5 October 19 October 26 November 2 November 9 November 16 November 23
All submisions for publica­tion must be received the Thursday before publication along with payment.
THE TARTAN 
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

RODEFSHALOM
rt/NIORCOflOREGAJION
? 18-35 year olds
? Rodef Shalom Junior Congregation
* Full member of the Rodef Shalom Congregation
* Nominal membership fee for undergraduate 
students
? Social, religious and charitable activités offered
? and much more
For more information please call Rodef Shalom
62I-6566
ATTENTION ALL INDUSTRIAL 
MANAGEMENT STUDENTS!
You are cordially invited to attend 
the Industrial Management 
Fall Convocation.
Date: Thursday, October 8 
Time: 4:30 pm 
Place: Porter Hall 100
1 Hear Dean Robert S. Sullivan discuss future plans for the Department of Industrial Management.
1 Student groups will provide progress reports on upcoming events, including the Business Opportunities Conference
1 Recognition will be given to Industrial Management students who have achieved various academic honors.
sEPAdP CPED Ld xArP g77O“7j Al /LSdSAlUalN 'PAi )' 
V/alalN Ld f/i SCP ©AEE 4/lI/pASa/l.
New Forming; j
WOMEN'S
WRESTLINGCLUB
& ©/i uPi/)ap W/ir/LSz 
&mPPD F/U' 2/lPUz
H 1PAil tPEf“qPfPldPz
& 9ArP okSiA 9/lP'z
2iAIPE S/ nSCPi 4EL)d— okDPldPd sAaUz
& Wal 4AdC sia”Pdz
CALL FOR INFORMATION
695-8255
ATTENTION SENIORS!
-S_d still l/S S// EASP S/ xArP-f '/L /iUPi '/Li g77j 2CadSEP
Al ADD/alSxPlS S/ NPS '/Li'PAi)//r l/y— yP_EE NaIP aS S/ '/L
dPla/i DapSLiP SArPl.AS A dDPpaAE DiapP.
4AEE SCP 2CadSEP /ffapP ASniUPi by 10/31 AlU DA' /lE'x2121$19.93
f/i Al ADD/alSxPlS.2/ /iUPi— dS/D )' /Li /ffapP «tra)/
tPla/i Dapd iLl SCi/LNCvGu¦ /i tra)/ vK
©iaUA'— npS/)Pi 7— g77O.«ULialN dPla/i DapSLiPd¦.
ulU CP' „ aSed ©cooz©/i '/Li p/lIPlaPlpP— yP 
AppPDS pAdC— pCPprd— 
9AdSPi4AiU— AlU (-tu.
The Thistle is funded by the Student Activities Fee.

---------------------------------------------------

(“:
o DiapP, )Lpr SCiPP“PaNCS'
bomb

---------------------------------------------------

dossier stockpile
scanned image + type = design
\ f

---------------------------------------------------

bomb squad H zero |§ bomb
r\y one ¡Ibomb squad M one jj contents
Michael Gabriel I two I Judith's Film Class (An Ethnographic Documentary of Sorts)o
JayOrzehowski if five a Radiation
Michael O'Sullivan I six 1 Schoolyard CeremonyO
Kate Rollenhagen i seven 1 Spoon
Jan Ruocco if nine 1 The Unfinished Balad of Jesus and Tinkerbell (Ruining the Punchline)
Sydney Neill m thirteen! Rockabilly Flirt
l^outteen^JBob Dixon ¡¡¡fourteen;.) Stories of Lovemaking
bsupa dmod a fifteen M dmod

---------------------------------------------------

(An Ethnographic Documentary of Sorts)
What?
You, you want me to face that there 
thing there? Well, all right, you |ust let 
me know when the fifteen minutes are 
up? You, you'll do that? I have to warn 
you my eyes don't stay in one spot 
longer than 4.237 seconds. Measured it 
once. All right then I'll start with what 
I'd done. Then you, you said you'd 
buy me a bucket of chicken?
Okay?
All right, then.
From '67 to '73 used to fly 
Thunderchiefs. Late model government 
stuff, mostly F-105s. You, you know those 
planes? Single pilot, can move just about 
two times as fast as the speed of sound. 
It could double it's speed in about 5.68 
seconds. Need that when you are ducking 
SAMs. What? Oh? Sorry, Surface-to-air- 
missiles. Damn good pilot was, too. One 
of the best. I led an attack on the Paul 
Doumer Bridge in Hanoi. You, you know 
the capital of North Vietnam? There is a 
picture of it in the Encyclopedia 
Americana, but they never really give 
you the full story. I'd say the F-105s flew 
about 75% of all missions over North 
Vietnam. Maybe 80%. Did that for about 
six years and three-quarters of another.
Before that I used to workas a Federal 
Agent. Got hired right out of college to 
be a graphics specialist. We—I had a lot 
of super high tech equipment at my 
disposal. Used to decode photographs, 
make sure they were legitimate and all 
that. Laser scanners, image decoders all 
that stuff. You, you know what I mean? 
But I don't like to talk about that job, 
'cause sometimes I think that the Man is 
still listening. Sure, I saw plenty of UFOs. 
There were quite a few photographs that 
we couldn't find fault with. You can see 
them just about any time. They're all 
over. I still see them, even now.
Right after that I took a job as a 
drugstore clerk. Had to get the Man off 
my back if you, you know what I mean. 
I would sweep up the floors and on
occasion make my way, very carefully, 
mind you into the back storage room. 
Used to keep a stash back there. Tuinol, 
Thorazine, Benzedrine, Dilauded. Ho, 
hooo. I'd say I wasn't much help to the 
owner about 56.32% of the time. Then 
again that's higher than the national 
percentage of most employees. They're 
usually only a help about 39.76% of the 
time during an average work day. Mind 
you they waste about 17.41 minutes just 
settling in to the shift, 40.687 minutes 
on average for lunch that is supposed to 
be 30.00000 minutes long God damn it, 
then 12.67 minutes a break two times a 
day with quitting time 6.324 minutes 
early every day, every clay, damn it. It's 
like you ain't even working. Wish I had 
a job like that where I could waste 89.761 
minutes a day.
Right about this time I started to 
write short stories under the name Del 
Close. No one would believe them let 
alone buy them, until later. They were 
all true, well, as true as I saw it. One was 
about me chasing rats through a sewer 
with a blow torch strapped to our, my 
head. I was wearing aviator glasses and 
carrying my grandaddy's pistols. Think 
about 97.6% of that one was true. 
Another one was about the time we—I 
loaded up on Dilauded and visited H. P. 
Lovecraft on his death bed. About 98.7% 
of that one was true. We were both 
pretty miserable, him dying and all. 
About this time I started to hangout 
with L. Ron Hubbard. You, you know
the cat that, that wrote Dynetics. Li 
rubbish that was. I gave him abou 
fifth of that one day after work.
L. Ron wasn't much help 
62.43% of the time. You, you getti! 
all?
What? BEFORE THIS I DID ME! 
ACTING.WHAT? NOT THat loud 
'bout this? All right. Did some 
back in 1953 for about 2.4 month! 
a preacher in The Blob. Yeah 
right. Well, with the money I madi 
that show, I started to collect cat 
Had an 12th century Venetian off 
a German one, too, with the yeai 
inscribed in it. But that was a b 
hobby. Besides, two crazy niggers 
and robbed me. Took all my in i 
took all my cabinets. I watched tb 
carry that German cabinet on his 
Made me sick as, well seein' tha 
black man doesn't have a spine, 
that? The black man. Yeah, repeati: 
black man don't have no spine. No! 
understand me? Know what I'mK 
about? They're like jelly fish. You 
seen them on the beach. They ju 
there all blubbery waiting for )t 
poke 'em with a stick. Poke some ft I 
'em. 'Cept you poke 'em until the; 
'Ain't no good. I'd say about 73* 
jelly fish die that way. People, litt 
about 94.63% of the time, just 
poke, poke, God damn it. Other 2. 
up in the sun. That's what's wron:1 
this country. Black man slouc I 
around. Sleeping, eating, and fc I 
like a dog. Ovv, ow, oooww. I'd say 
was a black man on top of > 
woman once every three seconds ¦ 
once every three seconds. Thai 
national average.
Well, right now, I'm working - 
trans-plain vehicle. See I slipped 
halos and I need to gain me somegr • 
This thing...Pow!, faster tb:! 
Thunderchief. Sets you to any pi8® 
want to go, providing the bate-

---------------------------------------------------

pressure is all right for that day. That's 
where 1 learned to build 'em, from doing 
my own mechanical work on the planes. 
Worked as my own mechanic for 973 
days.
You can call me Francis. Ever hear of 
a Dr. Carl Garie? Practices 'round town.
I used to be seen by him. I used to see 
him. He used to see me. Funny how that 
there works? I think he split a while 
back. He had an assistant named Caesar. 
Strange name for an assistant, don't you, 
you think? Odds of that must be about 
one in one hundred forty-six thousand. 
Maybe one hundred fifty-two. 
Somewhere around there. Yeah, I'd say 
one-fifty-two. That red light is blinking. 
The red light, the one on the side of your 
camera there.
Used to have what is called 
formication. That's the feeling that insects 
are running over ou—my skin. 
Formication, yeah. Not fornication. I 
never had that. Hah. Bet you fellas know 
all 'bout that. I'd say .0073% of the 
population has formication. The rest 
has fornication. That red light is blinking 
again. That mean we're—I'm telling a 
lie?
I'm looking where you want? That 
all right? Okay, then.
It sure is nice of you, you two offerin' 
to exchange food for a couple of stories. 
This for school, you, you said? Yeah, I 
went to college. Know all about those 
assignments in what are you doing, 
Sociology? Sociology you, you said? Oh 
Ethnograghy, well close enough. Back 
then though, we didn't have any of this 
video equipment, like you, you got here. 
I used to edit a magazine back then. Used 
to come out right along with the student 
newspaper. Yeah, Dossier, it was called. 
Strange kinda name don't you, you 
think? Not too many people knew what 
it meant. I didn't and I was the editor, 
Corf damn it! That was all right 'cause 
Only about 12.3% of the school
population even read the thing. Maybe 
12.5%. Used to publish fiction and 
poetry. Lot of poetry, never could get too 
much fiction from anybody. I'd say only 
about .0012% of the school submitted 
anything and if they did about 84.3% of 
it was poetry. You, you know, no one 
reads poetry. Yeah. When was the last 
time you saw it on a best seller list?
I live under the Birmingham Bridge. 
Yeah with a couple of other fellas. One I 
know is pretty good 'cause he's got like 
17 halos. Somedays it changes, but he 
usually has 17 or 18. I've seen him drop 
to 13. Sure, ithappens, but usually he has 
17. Other guys? Well one is a 6 and I trust 
him about as much as I trust any 6, 
which is about one-fourth of the time. 
The other is a four and as you, you might 
suspect, I trust him a wee bit less. But the 
17, that's a good number, 17.Thatwould 
just about put him on plain 53. Christ? 
Well Christ, He's on plain 81. That's a 
perfect number, 81,9 times 9. Add 8 plus 
1 and you get 9. Divide by 3, you, you get 
3 and that's a God number. Three nails. 
Trinity: Father, Son, Holy Ghost. Perfect 
symmetry in 81, no left over remainders 
like if it was plain 82. That just wouldn't 
work. Oh? Christ? He's got 29 halos. If 
you ever see anyone with 29 halos you 
can be pretty sure that it's Christ.
I used to have a cat named Fritz, you, 
you know, after the movie. I used to 
watch that over and over when we—I 
could. Great fucking movie that was. 
The first time I saw Fritz the Cat was on 
April 3, 1973 at 9:15. I was still flying 
back then. It was at The Strand Theater 
in Louisiana. The projectionist started it 
5.37 minutes late. It was cloudy that day. 
Movie cost $1.25. $1.25, imagine that! I 
bought some Lemonheads for a quarter. 
Do you eat them? Got any on you? How 
'bout you? I haven't had them in about 
14 years, well maybe 12. Well that's all 
right, I'd say only about 3% of the 
population eats Lemonheads.
These lights are getting hot. You, 
you can't turn any of them off, huh? 
Probably ruin your exposure. Go back to 
what? Christ? Yeah. I've seen him around 
a few times. He moves too fast to count 
all the halos, but he's usually about 40 
miles from God. If you see God, Christ is 
usually moving in the same direction 
only about 40 miles behind. Sometimes 
50. About 80% of the time it's between 
40 and 50. The Holy Spirit is 200 miles 
behind Christ. They travel around like 
that in a line. God, then about 40 miles 
behind is Christ, then about 200 miles 
behind him is the Spirit. And the Devil? 
Oh, he's around, too. Most call him 
what, Lucifer, Satan, Mephistopheles, 
the Lord of the Flies. The Devil is a guy 
named Samuel B. Lewis. He lives on the 
South Side. If you ever see him just say 
hello. Tell him Francis was asking about 
him. Usually wears a straw hat, about 
92% of the time. Black clothes, too if you 
hadn't already suspected. He’s always 
chasing around the women and—no, 
the Devil ain't black, but he very well 
could be. He's got a spine. Long one. He 
sets them womenfolk crazy onto the 
black man. They don't care. They like 
doin' it with dogs on the South Side. 
You, you know when a woman is in heat 
because her pupils dilate. Know what 
mean? Yeah. You can judge a woman by 
the length of her index finger over her 
lip. If two knuckles cover her lip you 
multiply this by two feet and you get 
the size of her pussy. Three knuckles, 
three feet. It's that simple fellas, but I 
suspect that you already know. Usually 
about 98% accurate. Yeah, about 98%.
I once saw a vagina that was 80 
miles long. Yeah, that was out 
in Texas.
Saywhc
so.
^ething-
y*
some '
%
Vtomisecf
We-/
64.2% Michael Gabriel
Editorial

---------------------------------------------------

*40
1-Mi
>AT'0fl,
m
itaQj
O'
Sa
Qj"
8ata.
:1mf©1
hl.1<-~h
O'
3Q,Qj*r^b
O'
5Q.0)’cio ' ¦ n “5aoT©CLO'
a
•Aaj/0r*eh,
Jason sees his yellow skin in the window. A bullet has cracked 
a small hole in the center of the glass. Straight white 
lines radiate to the frame.
The doctor has pried a hole
in the back of Jason's head that radiates
o
3
CL
©19*"*¦o'3
.1CL
Cnrr-bO'3
.1CL
in the same way. His father
: I 11 < \
whispers into the hole while Jason sleeps, swabbing away 
his own saliva
V.1 with hydrogen peroxide. Jason
x:wakes up to the hissing and stares at the dark walls.
The fading image
of his father saying: 'I am your father.'

---------------------------------------------------

W99-
9Ez<&
rUS r 'i
w9m9F
¦ ¦.-'•¦ ¦ .Vi :fSEa»<;
ffEE
6•F»afa
M
Michael O'Sullivan 
• , !
»* J * i
%;V*V’
vw| ’¿vV^1 :v 5 ' »iMfWW#/' !k'>
• :¦ •¦ > f$WL*
Wm
.............mmmmr
'' ’V'4'i^WÆfô'WMmWÊÈm
< - / / • ' - / V/,V,
¦Vid
»
üas 
cn
i iyf. *''3 fi É
-
Yv '
Kecitma sentiments of'chastitv
with the Catholic schoolgirlsI administered
the consecration ol narcosis
saS V
•jwg ' i 
Mÿàü.
Ilk
SSií>¦ ->;y:
./A/
:
¦¦ V-
C m mp m Po ?;í// r# ? */; - ' * M < ;
« I ¡||gfÍ I gg
¦ . o ; ; •
V" » Í , ‘ 01.• ¦•;.•'•:» •- *>- «S' 'ÿ'û,
' ; ER,SSp g451,, S oS ,j
to a soit, smooth consistency
skeletons shimmered
A nun came forth
I rom the doorway
and we attacked liei
0. to he petty again
xÉ$»¡W*.¿í‘f,/'-1T*. ,y'4 V'*Afâ&v - V >y-, W“-i i’f^W0irAdM'fsn ¦¦¦¦¦,¦>,¦: ¦¦:•¦;•. *.*;¦,'/.?/o ¦'y.>.W ? ¦<*¦.%¦«¦¡niÎÊZ*/,-

---------------------------------------------------

spoon Kate Rollenhagen
Replica of Graceland atop this pewter
Spoon app
Of
ini

---------------------------------------------------

>ximately

---------------------------------------------------

“So, Tinkerbell and Jesus Christ go into the Uni-Mart together to buy cigarettes....”You get all types here.I put down the wineglass I've been polishing and sort of wander over to the Scotch bottles, like I’m rearranging them, so I can hear the two youngish drunks. Been tending the same bar for as long as me (twenty and a half years), you learn to listen in on people's dirt while looking like you’re bored out of your mind. Lots of interesting stuff you hear in a dive like this. Probably enough for a goddamn best seller or two.“And Tinkerbell smokes Marlboros, one after the other, and the whole time she’s raggin’ on Jesus ‘cause of he smokes wimpy cigarettes, she says. Jesus says he’d rather smoke twice his Ultra-Mega-Super-Light Filter Box 100's, or whatever, than smoke half of her lung cutters and die young all over again. Now,Tinkerbell laughs, an’ thinks this is all funny ‘cause of it's better to die young than to have to grow up— and Jesus grabs two packs of Camel non-filters and says—” Man. I’ve heard some funny things here, sure. But wouldn’t you know it, sometimes you lose the greatest punchlines of our time to the goddamn telephone.“Evenin’. Thirsty’s. Emma speakin,” I grump into the phone. I keep one ear cocked hard to the two drunks, but what with all the clanking of glasses I can’t hear a thing they’re saying. And Christ! This bat on the other end of the line gives a squawky kind of gasp and says, "Oh, this isn’t the RJ. Rodmans’?”“No, ma’am, it sure isn’t the Rodmans’,” I sigh. "You musta gotta wrong number.”"Oh,” she squawks again, and there’s an embarrassed kinda silence when I know she’s gonna say “I’m sorry, thank you anyway,” and I hang her dumb ass up before she can do it.“Evenin, Emma. Double bourbon, ‘f ya please,” says that nice gray suit guy that comes In twice a week whose name I can never keep In my head. I nod at him,
glass, doubling back near the Scotch bottles."With such a pretty thing like that, you wouldn’t a guessed, wouldya?”The two youngish drunks laugh. They're packing up their cigarettes and lighters, and arranging my tip nice under the napkins, which isn’t so bad because they didn’t slop all over and soak the damn things while they were boozing. I smile nice at them and wave good evenin’ even though they’re talking something completely Greek to me and I missed their punchline. But, then, I’ll be damned if it’s any of my business anyway.I pour bourbon. “Two-fifty," I tell the nice gray suit guy, and mark it on his napkin. He smiles like always and raises his glass at me, pinky up all refined.“Cheers, Emma.” “Cheers, yourself.”He laughs, and you can always tell that Thirsty’s is maybe his second or third waterlng-hole after work, but he tips healthy, at least when I’m on.
«cLalalN SCP sLlpCEalP¦ úAl cL/pp/

---------------------------------------------------

I pick up polishing my spotty wineglasses again and wander on over to the little dusty table in the little dusty corner where Tinkerbell sits all afternoon long every day. Honest, that’s her name, Tinkerbell, not like a hooker’s handle or anything, or at least it’s all she calls herself... and that’s why I hung up on the squawkin’ lady to get to that punchline. Piqued my interest, you know. Tinkerbell, she’s a sad-faced girl in her mid-twenties, kind of tall, kind of skinny, dressed all in funny mismatched grays and pinks, with all kind of silver bangles at her wrists and ears and neck and fingers—crosses, mostly, and big ugly klunky fake jewels—and blue nailpolish, good Lord. Like I said, you get all types. She sits all alone all afternoon, drinking slow glasses of vodka and Ice and nothing else, and smokes like a chimney, and I think there’s something not quite right in her head, the way she just watches the smoke go up through the little bit of sunlight that hits her table around three-thirty. So I keep checking up on her, you know, just keep an eye out and see how she’s doing, though I wouldn’t even know what to look for if anything was wrong. Funny girl. Smiles to herself sometimes, she does, and she’s got a crazy smile, like it hurts her face, and she’ll be twirling this little bauble on a string—a Christmas ornament, It looks like, all done up like a disco-ball out of bits of mirror stuck close together. Sometimes she’ll hang It on her finger and hold it in the sunbeam till the sunlight’s gone, for hours, sometimes spinning it fast, so it looks like a bit of silver liquid, sometimes slow, so it just twinkles. It’s a pretty little bauble, sure, and it wouldn’t be Thirsty’s without it by now. Throws squares of rainbow all over the walls, sometimes it does."How’s it goln’, Belle?” I pat her arm. "Need anything?”“Oh...” Tinkerbell stares away from her bauble, around the room, and back again, and a little tiny blip of a smile comes up. It’s gone as fast as It came. "Isn’t true, you know, what they said about me.”I stop polishing and twist my mouth up. “What, those boys over there? Oh, that was just a joke, hon. Wasn’t about you.”She stops twirling and looks up at me, moving just
her eyeballs. They’re blue, sort of gray. Bloodshot, too. “Well, you doesn’t 
have to die young. You doesn't have to get old, says I. Do you know that If you look hard enough at something, you'll forget that the whole day's gone by? And stay young?”Like usual she makes next to no sense unless you listen careful. And I know what she means, sort of. I nod and go on polishing. She goes on twirling.“Like this. This. It’s a pretty thing, innit?”I nod again. That’s Tinkerbell’s line right there, pretty thing. Tinkerbell collects pretty things, she says; all she wants is pretty things to collect, to look at, like— to play with. Doesn’t say exactly what her pretty things are. She does have an awful lot of jewelry, though. I guess to myself she’s like a crow, and just picks up sparkly things because they catch her eye. But she’s kind of freaky around people. If she likes how you look, she’ll come up and say, “Pretty thing, aren’t you?" and ask how old you are and did you know that If you look hard enough at

---------------------------------------------------

something and so on and so forth. Really wigs some people out. I leave her alone, though, and protect her from the bohunks liking to make fun of her, because I understand she’s got her problems, and she don’t bug nobody in here. Tinkerbell, see, I think got in trouble In the first place by playing with maybe one or two too many pretty things who were maybe one or two years too young for the law's liking, if you catch my meaning. Boys who don’t want to grow up. Lost boys, like. Or so I hear, which is why it’s better to keep her happy In here than let her go creeping around out there, I figure: I got two sweet teenage grandsons myself, ripe little firecrackers, the both of them."That it is," I agree, nod again, and go to leave, “real pretty.""Pretty things, and Jesus was wrong,” she says loudly, all of a sudden, and I stop short. Guess she did hear that joke. She grins and goes on, "about that, says I. Smoke those good cigarettes and don’t let anything stay all cooped up. Gimme a light." She’s got a cigarette stuck unlit in her mouth, and she’s grinning fit to make me real glad my grandsons are too many states away for her to play with.I shrug and use her own Zippo to light her up. She seems pretty spacey today, more than usual, not recognizing her own Zippo. “There y'go, Tinkerbell. Now, what’s all this about Jesus, honey?”“Thanks, Emma. Thanks.” She drags deep and blows the smoke out hard through the hair that hangs all in her face. The smoke swirls up Into the little sunbeam like molasses. She twirls her bauble slow on one finger and sighs, all of a sudden sad and thoughtful, and when this girl gets a saddish look on her face, boy, people cry for two blocks around without even knowing why.I pat her arm again and frown. "You okay, Belle? Had enough to drink?”
“Sometimes," Tinkerbell cuts me off, grabbing her glass and drinking hard, crunching an Ice-cube in her teeth so I get the willies something fierce; “sometimes life just gives you a pretty thing, a pretty thing for you to play with. And you take it, wow, what luck, you takes it when God gives you a pretty thing to play with.” She’s
staring straight out into space, right through her own hand, I'm sure, and In that bright sunbeam she starts whirlin’ that silvery mirrored bauble round so it 
does look for all Christ’s name like a little swirl of fairy-dust ready to shoot offa her finger."But sometimes. Sometimes, it's a living pretty thing and It might break, you know, and then you gets yourself in trouble, or sued, or locked away,” she says, talking to me but facing the cloud of smoke, and then stops the bauble spinning, “or at least slapped in the face.”I stop dead. Looking at her little pixie-ball, and thinking of lost boys, I suddenly know what she just said and start to laugh. God help me, out comes my patent old belly- laugh, bosoms shaking and all, and people all over the damn bar look over at us. But that Tinkerbell, she’s totally blank and probably has no Idea I know about her and her trouble with pretty things, she’s just staring at the bauble again, with that sad half-smile on her face.She looks so blue I feel bad for laughing."Ohh, I’m sorry, hon,” I

---------------------------------------------------

chuckle away, “but it just sounded funny, like—like—•" I wave my bar-rag at her and go on polishing. “Ah. Never mind.”“Oh, I knows, Emma,” Tinkerbell says, holding her bauble up to her eye so It sends white squares of sunlight all over her face. She’s pale, even for someone who only gets that one little sunbeam every day. “Like little boys who never grow up. Pretty things. You know...pretty things.”“Say what?" I jam on the brakes again and eye her side-like. Her weird eyes go straight to mine, and boy are they bright. That crazy blip of a grin comes back. “Tinkerbell Isn’t always as dumb as she looks. Just most of the time." ¦By now I got my hands on my hips and am squinting at her like Eastwood himself, and ain’t that the damnedest thing, this fruitcake knowing exactly what’s goin’ on? I shake my head and wave my wineglass around that’s 
still got spots on it, looking for words, but by now she’s looked back away to that bauble of hers, kind of mumm- humming to herself. Something like ‘picking up the petals in no-man’s land’, I think that’s what she said.Crazy old Tinkerbell’s back in her shell. So I just take her glass and head barward, still shaking my head, and fill it up with ice and vodka, on the house, says me.“You’re something else, Tinkerbell,” I tell her, plonking down her glass and giving her a good healthy clap on the shoulder. Too healthy for her, I guess, because she shakes like her bones are rattlin’ castanets when I do It. “Drink up, sister.”"That’s like my friend, Sasha,” Tinkerbell says to her sparkle-bauble, breathing smoke. “It’s like once when he was on the telephone for a half of an hour. With his mama. And he was on acid and he was peeling this carrot. For a half of an hour. He nearly peels his fingers right off, he did.”I get back behind my bar and finish wiping that same goddamn wineglass that’s now spotless.“Nother bourbon, Emma,” says the nice gray suit guy, "when you have a minute?"Dammit. Nobody’s wrecking my punchline this time. “Sure.” I sweep the bourbon bottle fancy-like over his
glass and mark two-fifty on his napkin without looking, all the while looking right over the top of his gray head at Tinkerbell’s corner.“Why was yer friend peeling a carrot on LSD?" I ask her.“He had to,” says Tinkerbell, drinking at her vodka,"otherwise he would bite his nails.”

---------------------------------------------------

\
Sydney neill
2To cn4muF-110 ©1-c2
flick
of calloused hands
er

---------------------------------------------------

She'll go out early to bathe at the rest-house,
AlU gggg UiaIP /ff.
EPAIalN .
WCPl AEE SCP pAxDPi DAird pE/dP— -eEE E/dí
SCP Wa-makingfafS' D/LlUd— dPEE SCP WallP)AN/— AlUtelr stories of love-making in the stars
at the bottom of the Grand Canyon.

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Don’t waste those extra 24 hours wondering 
what to do with them. We’ll tell you.
i
Watch some really bad TV! You can try MTV, but 
sometimes they play a decent video, so you can’t really 
count on them to be consistently bad. What you can do 
is watch lots of Sleaze TV, which consists of talk shows 
(especially Geraldo and Sally Jessy Rafael), tabloid 
shows (Now It Can Be Told is a good, sleazy one), and 
“infomercials” (“I’m not only the Hair Club for Men president—I’m 
a client, too). Bad TV is best watched with a large jar of dry-roasted 
peanuts and a liter of your favorite drink. Voila! Instant entertain­
ment.
Go to The Carnegie Museum, which is really two 
museums and a library in one. The natural history 
TC'Jpr museum (or The Really Big, Scary, Dead Things 
Museum) has stuff like dinosaur bones and jewels 
and Native American artifacts and diaoramas of 
trilobite life and other things. It’s cool. One tip, though — don’t 
jump up on the dead dinosaurs’ backs and yell “Hi Ho, Diplodocus! 
Away!” Museum Security tends to frown upon that.
The art museum has paintings and stuff, and the contemporary 
collection is actually one of the best in the world. The video art 
exhibitions are usually pretty nice, too. And, of course, the sculp­
ture court around back is a wonderful place to have a picnic lunch 
while you contemplate the problems of post-modern society as 
reflected in art.
The library is great, especially the children’s room, where you can 
sit in a tiny little chair and relive your childhood through all the 
books you forgot you read. To get a card, you just need to bring some 
sort of picture ID and proof that you live in Pittsburgh (a letter you 
received here, a bill, something like that).
The museum is open Tuesday through Saturday from 10 am-5 
pm and Sunday from 1 pm-5 pm, but they’re closed on Mondays so 
don’t show up and bang on the door then. The library is open every 
day but Sunday (Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Friday 9 am— 
pm, Tuesday and Saturday 9 am-5:30 pm), so if you want to see 
all three sections, you better go on Saturday.
Eat at McDonald’s. The 
closest one is on Forbes in 
Oakland, but if you can find 
one in a suburb somewhere, 
that’s better, because you 
can see all of the parents 
telling their kids that they can only have 
one toy in their Happy Meals. But you 
can have two if you want.
3
Do the incline thing. You can ride the Monongehela and Duquesne incline trains up and 
down Mount Washington for $1 each way, or $.50 for children 12 and under. The bottom 
stations are in Station Square, and the top stations are on Grandview Avenue. (Get to Station 
Square by driving along 376 or taking a 61 A,B, or C bus and then walking across the 
Smithfield bridge). Monday through Saturday, they’re open from 5 am till 12:45 am, and 
Sunday and holidays from 7 am to 12:45 am. There’s a great view of Pittsburgh and the three rivers 
coming together from the top of these things, especially at night, and it’s cheap to ride them, too. What 
more do you want?
Check out a local 
band. Kindred is play­
ing Wednesday night 
at the Decade (on 
Atwood Street in Oak­
land). They’ll start at about 10 
or 10:30 pm, and it’s only $2 to 
get in. The Clarks will also play 
the Decade, on Saturday night. 
You can also check out three 
bands for $3 at Graffiti (4615 
Baum Boulevard) on Wednes­
day —Tho Woodon Gypsys, Ter­
ritory, and Subrosa. And Graf­
fiti will be hosting the 97 Rock 
Hardhitters event, with Groove 
Guru, Sabro, Skolotonse, and 
Voodoo Wagon. You can catch 
that show for $4 on Friday night. 
Chock the«« band« out whilo 
thoy’ro still “local." You novor 
know in a low yours inuybo 
Pittsburgh will bo tho next So- 
nttlo, and you cun say “I saw 
them when....”
¿mm**...5
67
You can see for miles from the Incline trains. This shot Is from Light-Up Night.Tartan Filo Photo
Buy a lottory 
tickot, sit in your fa­
vorite nook of your 
room with a notebook 
and a now pon, and 
write down all tho things you’d 
buy if you won, after you pay off 
your studont loans. Then watch 
the drawing and lot us know if 
you win.
12
Buy some paint, cover 
the furniture in your room 
with some old newspapers 
other than The Tartan, 
and go to town. Give yourself a sky or a 
meadow or a sea of flowers. You can do 
whatever you want as long as you re­
store the room to its original condition 
when you move out.
You can see movies really, really cheaply at Super Saver 
Cinemas. There are two around here, but they’re difficult to 
reach unless you have a car. One is in Northway Mall. To get 
there, go down Fifth Avenue to 376 West, drive to the split in the highway, go 
Coward Three Rivers Stadium, and drive past Three Rivers out of downtown. Exit 
at McKnight Road to the right and drive all the way down McKnight Road. 
Northway Mall is on the left. The other one is called Century Square Cinemas Maxi 
Saver, and you can get there by going down 376, but go left at the fork, toward the 
Liberty Bridge, through the tunnel. Take a left right after the tunnel (Route 51 S). 
The mall is on the left on down the road, and the theatre is in the shopping center 
behind the mall.
8
9
13
Buy a Good Housekeep­
ing or a Better Homes and 
Gardens and make some of 
the recipes in it.
Put a cool message on your 
answering machine. Use 
music and think of some­
thing really witty to say. But 
be careful — your mom 
might call and hear it.
Go swimmin’. 
CMU’s pool has 
strange hours, 
though — week­
days from 7:15 to 
8:15 am, 11:30 am-l:15 pm 4-9 pm; 
Saturday 1-4 pm; Sunday 1-4 pm, 7-9 
pm. You might want to call before you go 
to make sure they’re open.
10
Have a picnic on 
Flagstaff Hill (right 
behind Baker/Por­
ter) if the weather’s 
nice. Or if it isn’t, 
have a picnic on the floor in your room. 
It doesn’t really matter as long as you 
eat off of a blanket and have something 
red-checkered close at hand. You can 
leave the ants outside.
il
Go to the grocery 
store and buy tons 
of ice cream. Then 
get all of your 
friends together and 
have a little contest.
14
Bowl, bowl, 
bowl! There are 
several fine, fine 
bowling establish­
ments who would 
love to see your 
feet in their cute little shoes. Try Miracle 
Lanes in Monroeville (take a first right 
after the Monroeville exit on 376), or 
Forward Lanes in Squirrel Hill.
15
Rent all of the 
Monty Python mov­
ies (not to be left out 
under any circum­
stances are Monty 
Python’s Life Of 
Brian, Monty Python's Quest for the 
Holy Grail, and aB many episodes of 
Monty Python's Flying Circus as you can 
find). Have yourself a merry little movie 
marathon. Then go around and make a 
nuisance of yourself by quoting all of the 
lines you can remember in a tinny little 
British accent. But stay away from us.
Watch 
Bob Ross’s 
painting 
shows. You 
know — 
they’re the ones where he creates 
these masterpiece paintings in 
half an hour. This requires a bit 
ofprior planning, though—you’ll 
have to tape it because the show 
airs on Tuesday and Wednesday 
at 2:30 pm. After you watch, in­
dulge yourself in a paint-by-num- 
hers set, and hang the final prod­
uct on your wall with pride.
Call a 
900-num- 
ber (just to 
satisfy your 
curiosity, of 
course).
Yours” and “Pittsburgh Con­
fesses its Dirty Little Secrets” 
hoth seem pretty interesting. 
Check out In Pittsburgh for phone 
numbers. (They’re in the back in 
you never noticed.)
Go to a karaoke bar and humiliate yourself 
publicly by singing “Islands in the Stream” 
with your best buddy. Tutti’s, located in 
fciSA Shadyside above Victoria’s Secret, has open 
karaoke mike all night Tuesday, and open 
piano bar all other nights of the week (except 
Sunday when they’re closed). Jelly Roll is in Station Square, and 
they have karaoke Monday and Tuesday from 5 pm to 2 am, and from 
5 pm to 8 pm Wednesday through Saturday.
Go get yourself a crazy hairdo. Designs on 
Craig Street charges $20 for the basic cut and 
¦¦ MS «§ ggft style. The Clip Joint (located on Center Av-
®S§ Sjjjf enue) charges $13 for women's cut and $12 for
gSSsglfgy W men’s.
Or you could just go to Rite Aid (on Walnut 
Street in Shadyside) and get some hair coloring — it comes in both 
permanent and temporary varieties. While you’re at it, you could get 
something pierced, too (an ear, a nose, another piece of your 
anatomy).There are places that will do this for you at most malls, and 
prices normally don’t exceed $15, unless you’re doing something 
really extraordinary to yourself.
Go Dahntahn! Downtown Pittsburgh has much to offer to the person willing 
to look for it. One suggestion: Play “Don’t You Look Stupid!” with a few 
friends. This involves going to a ridiculously big department store with a 
group of friends and making each other try on the most ghastly things you can 
find, and, believe it, there are some nasty things hiding in that latest fall 
collection. You can also say “Mummy and Daddy’s credit card” a lot and see how many salespeople come 
to help you. Then you can walk around and look in the windows of all the expensive stores. After you’ve 
all gotten a good laugh, hit Mrs. Field’s Cookies down the street from Kaufmann’s department store and 
gorge yourself on some disgustingly rich White Chocolate Chip Macadamia Nut something or other and 
a big old glass of milk. To get downtown, catch a 61 A,B, or C in front of Morewood and get off at 
Kaufmann’s on Smithfield Street.
21
22
Check out the All Star Tribute to the ’70s at 
Moondog’s on Friday night (call 828-2040 for 
info). Or go Velcro-jumping at Kangaroo’s 
Outback in the North Hills on Saturday night. 
We’re not exactly sure what this is, but it 
sounds fun. Call 931-3370 for info.
Get dressed up and go to the theater. There’s lots of shows playing around the 
area — Ma Rainey’s Black Bottom at the Pittsburgh Public Theater, Aspects of 
Love at the Benedum Center downtown, Good Black Don’t Crack at the Stephen 
Foster Theatre at Pitt. And you don’t have to dress up for Scotch ‘n’ Soda’s “The 
Bindermeyer Theory” Thursday and Friday in the Wherrett Room.
( ompiled by Megan Dietz, Laura Palanker, Laura 
McClure, Audi 'e\\ Sproulc, and Bobbie DolHeniycr.
Check 
out the 
new 
Pitts­
burgh
International Airport. It’s very 
close to the old one, and suppos­
edly really neat — the terminal 
is X-shaped, and to get to it, you 
have to ride an underground 
shuttle from the baggage claim/ 
ticket selling building. The run­
ways are the same as the ones 
that the old airport used, but the 
volume of travel that thiB airport 
can accomodate is supposed to be 
much larger. To get there, either 
drive down 376 West till you see 
the signs, or catch the shuttle at 
Webster Hall on the comer of 
Dithridge and Fifth Avenue.
Do what­
ever floats 
your boat. 
JuBt make 
sure you do 
something.
Check out the 
Features 
Activity Page, 
page L5, for 
hours of 
entertainment

---------------------------------------------------

L2The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon * 5 October 1992
Roe vs. Wade lawyer discusses reproductive rights
Weddington speaks to Students about future of landmark decision
By CHRISTIAN M. RESTIFO
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
This past Saturday evening, 
Sarah Weddington, the lawyer 
who successfully argued Roe vs. 
Wade before the Supreme Court, 
spoke to students in Skibo Ball­
room. Her topic was recent court 
decisions and their possible ef­
fects on the 1973 landmark case.
The Tartan: You teach pre­
law. Are your courses popular 
because you teach them?
Sarah Weddington (SW): They 
are. And so I always have a wait­
ing liBt, and I can never get ev­
erybody in. But the plus of it is I 
teach no required classes, so the 
only people who are in my class 
want to be there. I teach a writ­
ing component, so that takes a 
lot of time for grading. I grade 
myself. I don’t have the TAs do 
it.... I love teaching. They [the 
students] learn how to read the 
headlines and how to read the 
news, and what we’re talking 
about in class is what’s happen­
ing. That makes it really inter­
esting.
The Tartan: One thing that 
wasn’t brought up during your 
talk, and I’m interested in your 
opinion on it, is the case of the 
frozen embryos and who would 
get “custody” or “ownership.”
SW: What happened in that 
case is, aB you remember it was 
out of Mary ville, Tennessee, was 
the lower court said those frozen 
embryos are children. You may 
name them. On appeal, the court 
said no. If either one of the par­
ties does not want those fertil­
ized ovums brought to term, they 
can veto it. And I think that’s 
right because I do think a man 
has somo rights. I think when 
you’re talking about the woman’s 
body, she has the primary right. 
But whore the frozen embryo
are in a frozen solution, I don’t 
think he should be made to be a 
father against his will. And so 
you’ll remember in that case, the 
former wife wanted to give that 
frozen sperm away. And I think 
he ought have been able to say 
no. But I do think men have an 
interest. The question legally is 
which party has the more impor­
tant interest in any one case, and 
if the woman’s own physical body 
is concerned, then I say she has 
the primary interest.
The Tartan: Why did the lower 
court say the embryos could be 
named? -------------------------.
The Tartan: You spoke ofhow if 
Roe vs. Wade was overturned, 
the issue would go to state legis­
latures. What do you think would 
Becure abortion rights once and 
for all?
SW: There are two things. One 
would be a Constitutional amend­
ment which is just not likely right 
now. I just don’t think we could 
get the 38 states to ratify it. The 
second thing is that if we finally 
get to a point where the politi­
cians recognize that there is an 
organized opposition to abortion, 
there will always be, but there is
cause of their position on abor­
tion. And so I think Bush is 
saying, “Oh, no. I’m down in the 
polls already. I can’t afford to 
lose those pro-choice votes.” And 
so they’re trying to just make it 
fuzzy. Now they’ve never said 
they’re for Roe vs. Wade. Bush, 
you’ll remember, he said, “I’ll 
support my daughter if she had 
an abortion,” and then the next 
day I think he said he would 
support her if she was a bank 
robber or something like that. I 
just think they’re trying to dif­
fuse how people will vote. I don’t 
think it’s going to work because
“And so I think Bush is saying, ‘Oh, no. I’m down in the 
polls already. I can’t afford to lose those pro-choice votes. 
And so they’re trying to make it fuzzy.... I just think they’re 
trying to diffuse how people will vote.”
— Sarah Weddington
SW: Well, 
the lower 
court judge 
was a man 
who is elect­
ed, and he 
basically said 
life does be­
gin at concep- --------------------------
tion. There-
fore, these are children, and you 
may name them.
The Tartan: How have you been 
involved since Roe vs. Wade with 
the abortion issue?
SW: In a variety of ways. I was 
president of the National Abor­
tion Rights Action League until 
1967. Did a lot of testimony be­
fore the Senate in opposition to 
various bills against abortion. 
Have always raised money for 
pro-choice candidates. So far this 
year, I have done fund raisers for 
Clinton/Gore.... Rightnow, I think 
there are other people who can 
do some of the legal work because 
that’s an everyday deal and that 
I can go out and try to educate 
people through speeches, through 
political activities, writing the 
book. So I’m trying to do all I 
know to do to keep Roe safe, but I 
don’t think we can do it just in the 
courts right now.
a far larger group of people who 
are pro-choice and who will vote 
on that. Because what most poli­
ticians want is to get re-elected. 
And so if Bush is defeated by the 
abortion issue, that will go a long 
way to making a lot more politi­
cians not just pro-choice but 
strongly pro-choice. That’ll help 
set it to rest. Now it’s never not 
going to be an issue. It will al­
ways be an issue. What I’d like to 
do is secure the legal right for the 
individual to make the decision 
so that the issue becomes a per­
sonal issue instead of a govern­
ment-imposed issue.
The Tartan: What do you think 
about Bush’s and Quayle’s per­
sonal statements about abortion?
SW: I think first that they’re 
probably reading polls that say a 
lot of Republicans don’t agree and 
a lot Republican women are think­
ing they won’t vote for him be-
the Bush administration has 
filed briefs against Roe every 
time they could. I just don’tthink 
the public’s going to fall for that.
The Tartan: There has been 
some debate over the controver­
sial abortion ads for a political 
campaign. Some people have 
been trying to get them banned, 
claiming they are obscene. What 
do think of that issue?
SW: I haven’t looked at the 
issue that closely. Given free 
speech principles, I’m not sure 
you can keep them off the air. I 
think in the long run, though, 
they don’t do what the people 
running them are trying to do. 
I’d think they’d make people 
angiy ratherthen say, ‘Well, let’s 
nothaveabortion.’Ithink they’re 
awful. I think they’re probably 
ineffective for what he’s trying 
to do.
The Tartan: A lot of pro-life 
groups try to use the argument 
that abortion has detrimental 
effects on the woman. How do 
you feel about these claims?
SW: First, if you look at the 
medical aspect, everyone that I 
know will agree abortion is medi­
cally safer in early pregnancy 
than carrying the pregnancy to 
term. So just from a medical per­
spective, abortion is safer for the 
woman. Second, post partum de­
pression, they are now saying, 
may affect as many as ten per­
cent of all women who give birth.
_________________ So I can’t tell
you that 
there are no 
women who 
have an ad­
verse psy­
chological 
reaction to 
having had 
an abortion. 
But I can tell 
you for sure 
that the psychological impact of 
having a child is much more se­
vere and that many more women 
have problems after childbirth 
than they do after abortion. But 
neither is severe enough to make 
a decision on that basis. So what 
the statistics show is that if a 
woman comes from a fundamen­
tal Protestant religious back­
ground, for example, where she’s 
always been told abortion is 
wrong, she will have some psy­
chological reaction. I think a lot 
of the psychological aspect of 
abortion comes from the fact that 
a lot of women wish their lives 
were different than they are. For 
example, if a woman finds her­
self pregnant, and she thought 
the relationship with the man in 
her life was very strong and if 
she was pregnant, he’d stick with 
her, and she finds out that’s not 
true, she’s going to have a psy­
chological reaction. I don’t think 
it’s to the abortion as much as it
is to her disappointment in her 
life situation. Or women who 
would like to have more children 
but find they cannot afford it 
Her reaction is in part the disap-, 
pointment with her lifestyle situ­
ation.
The Tartan: You spoke about' 
Randall Terry’s organization, 
Operation Rescue. What do you, 
think of those “extreme” groups?'
icL ¦,
SW: Well, I think first-'ihat 
Randall Terry and the peopté Who 
picket the clinics have had 'an1 
impact. I think that what’s hap­
pened is they have made it harder; 
to get new doctors to do abofflion" 
that most of the people who are 
doing abortion today are people 
who practiced medicine before ; 
1973, and they really did see 
women in emergency conditions.., 
So what I’m afraid is he’s, not 
having that much impact on the 
law, but he is having impact on 
access. I’m sorry that’s trueibut I., 
think he has. The second thing is j 
I think, from a public relations,, 
point of view, on the whole he’s 
helpful to the pro-choice-sid^,. 
Because I think a lot of people 
watch those people in front of thp : 
clinics and they say, “We .don’t, 
want those people in charge of; 
our lives.” ^
So I think the general public ., 
reaction is very negative, espe­
cially when those people say; “Wé¿ 
are not bound by civil law.. Thej 
law to which we are primarily 
responsible is God’s law.” When,, 
you start letting everybody de"; 
cide what God’s law is, and that 
that’s what they’re going to do, 'I 
we would have chaos in this coun-'Í 
try. One of the reasons this coun­
try works is because we let Every­
one practice their own religion,,.i 
but we don’t let them force'it on’J 
everybody else. So I think what.’/ 
he’s saying is a very dangérous!1 
precedent that would really-un=u 
dermine our system of govern;.: 
ment. l-
dossier
is now accepting subtnissions for the second issue of the semester
deadline: October 9, 1992
drop off at the tartan office (skibo 50) in care of michael gabriel
submissions should include title, author's name, and phone number
jtomsop
YOM KIPPUR - ** - Dr
BEGINS TOMORROW NIGHT! 
Schedule of services for the university community
Pre Kol Nidre Dinner Egalitarian Conservative Service
Egalitarian Conservative Service Reform Morning Service Conservative Service resumes
Tuesday, October 6 19925:006:45PMPMHillel Dining Center, 160 N. Craig Street Ballroom, Wm. Pitt Union
Wednesday, October 7, 19929:00 AM Ballroom, Wm. Pitt Union10:00 AM Assembly Rm, Wm. Pitt Union5:30 PM Ballroom, Wm. Pitt Union
HEAR THE BLAST OF THE SHOFAR
Light refreshments will follow Neilah at approximately 7:35 in the Ballroom.Break-the-Fast will follow at 8:00 PM at Hillel (call to RSVP for meals!!)The William Pitt Union is located on the comer of Fifth Avenue and Bigelow Boulevard on Pitt’s campus.CMU students will be meeting on the parking lot side of Skibo 1/2 hour before services, and walking to services together. 
Coordinated by B’nai B’rith Hillel, foundation of the Jewish Campus Community
Have questions, or would like some info about services at local congregations?
Give us a call, 621-8875.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 5 October 1992L3
National Coming Out Day promotes openness
By MEGAN DIETZ
Tartan Features Editor
This Friday, gays, lesbians, and bi­
sexuals will celebrate National Com­
ing Oflt Day (NCOD), a day designed to 
“persuade more gays and lesbians to be 
open about their sexuality,” say s senior 
research programmer and cmuOUT 
member Duane Williams. NCOD will 
be observed on Friday since the actual 
date, October 11, falls on a Sunday this 
year. ,
NCpD has its roots in a 1987 march 
op Washington, D.C., by over half a 
million gays and lesbians, which was 
largely ignored by both then-President 
Reagan and the popular media. In Feb­
ruary of 1988, 200 gay and lesbian
leaders met in Virginia to discuss the 
future of the gay/lesbian community.
These leaders, according to Williams, 
decided that, “it was important for more 
lesbians and gay men to be 
visible — the biggest prob­
lem with achieving under­
standing and tolerance is the 
fact that so many people 
don’t believe they’ve ever met 
a gay person. Most are in the 
closet hiding because they’re 
afraid of intolerance and dis­
crimination.” ________
To address this problem, 
the men and women at the Virginia 
conference created NCOD, which would 
be celebrated each year on October 11, 
the date of the Washington march.
“It is so important to persuade lesbi­
ans and gays to come out of the closet 
and be honest, because ultimately it 
will help us to be treated better as a
"People imagine gay people as weird or 
unusual or awful, but they're not. If gays 
came out of the closet, people would re­
alize that.”
— Duane Williams
group of people,” says Williams. “It ben­
efits the individual, too. People who are 
more open and honest can relax. They 
don’t have to be afraid to talk at the
office on Monday about what they did 
over the weekend.”
Tho purpose of NCOD is two-fold — 
first, to offer tangible support to gays 
and lesbians 
who haven’t 
come out yet, 
and second, to 
present a large, 
unified group to 
the hetero­
sexual commu­
nity.
____________________ “Nine out of
ten lesbians 
and gays are in the closet,” says Wil­
liams. “They walk the streets and no 
one views them any differently from 
the heterosexuals on the street—people
imagino gay peoplo as woird or unusual 
or awful, but they’ro not. If gays caino 
out of tho closet, peoplo would realize 
that.”
This Friday, cmuOUT and ALLIES 
plan to be in front of Doherty Hall to 
pass out ribbons for gays, lesbians, bi­
sexuals, and heterosexuals to wear in 
support of the gay community. Laven­
der (preferred by lesbians), hot pink 
(preferred by gay mon), and all-inclu­
sive rainbow-colored ribbons will be 
available for people to wear to show 
their support.
There will also be a rally at The Clock 
from noon to 1 pm, where there will be 
speakers talking about gay, lesbian, and 
bisexual rights, as well as personal sto­
ries of coming out.
Homecoming sparks old memories, creates new ones
sEAld alpELUP pCAxDANlP )iLlpC f/i AELxla— 4EaDDPidCaD UAlpP f/i dSLUPlSd
By LAUREN HEINZ
Tartan Junior Staffuuriter
Homecoming 1992 promises 
three days of celebration—Octo­
ber 16,17, and 18. Not only will 
the alumni get to meet and greet 
ol3 friends, but the weekend is 
chock full of all kinds of interest­
ing and special events. Highlights 
include an afternoon football 
game at Gesling Stadium, an 
evening of music and dancing at 
Carnegie Music Hall, and a cham­
pagne brunch for alumni at
Westin William Penn Hall.
Friday, October 16 is a day de­
voted to the Class of 1942 — a 
golden anniversary celebration. 
A Medallion Ceremony will take 
place at 10 am, and a class pic­
ture will be taken at 1:30 pm.
Later that afternoon a Home­
coming kickoff luncheon will be 
held, followed by city bus tours 
until 5:30 pm. Throughout the 
afternoon, department receptions 
and seminars are being held for 
alumni of all of the schools. The 
rest of the evening is devoted to
dining and classical music per­
formances at the Carnegie Music 
Hall in Oakland.
On Saturday, two reunion semi­
nars will be conducted in the 
morning. Social historian and his­
tory professor John Modell will 
lead the first, speaking about the 
revolutionary changes that have 
occurred in our society since 
World War II. The second semi­
nar, “How to Write a Good Obitu­
ary,” will be led by professor of 
physics Hugh D. Young. Young’s 
lecture will give the lecture as if
it were his last, and he will dis­
cuss some of the priciples that 
have guided his life. Also that 
day, a pre- and post-law recep­
tion will be held as an opportu­
nity for both alumni and under­
graduates who are either cur­
rently studying in the field of law 
or later hope to attend law school 
to come learn and share ideas.
Aside from the popular Home­
coming game that will occur Sat­
urday afternoon between the Tar­
tans and the University of Chi­
cago Maroons, many other eventsDelta Gamma raises $1,650 for charity with Anchor Clanker fundraiser
By LAURA McCLURE
TartanAssistant Features Editor
Last-weekend the football field was crowded with colorful events 
as Delta Gamma hosted its largest annual fundraiser, Anchor 
Clanker. The money raised will be split between two organizations: 
the A14 for the Blind national program and the Pittsburgh School for 
the Blind. Anchor Clanker held such mini-Olympic events as 
Hannah’s Bullseye, a tug-of-war, a football kick-off, and a three- 
legged race. The results of the Beautiful Eyes contest, which took 
place the week of September 19-26 in front of Doherty Hall, were 
also announced this past Saturday. Ron Zmich, a junior MechE, was 
awarded the honor of having the most beautiful eyes on campus.
Competing in these Olympic events were thirty-five teams of five 
people each, with one Delta Gamma pledge or sister per team as 
coach. The role of the coaches was to “keep the team together and get 
them from one event to another,” says DG pledge and H&SS 
freshman Becky Elroy.
Each team contributed an entrance fee of twenty-five dollars, the 
primary source for funds raised. “The majority of the teams were
Greek, but we’d like to see more independent teams in the future,” 
says Anchor Clanker chair Emmanuelle Lafer, a junior in IM/ 
French.
Aside from the money donated by students, Delta Gamma also 
had a great amount of support from outside sponsers. Giant Eagle 
provided all the whipped cream needed for Hannah’s Bullseye, the 
pie throwing event. McDonalds donated about 700 hamburgers — 
lunch for eveiyone involved in Anchor Clanker. Various other 
organizations provided the prizes, which included tickets to the 
symphony, bike helmets, restaurant certificates, and a necklace. 
Out of the 35 teams, the top 14 received prizes. PiKA teams won 
both first and second place, with Kappa Sig coming in third.
Between 12 and 3 pm this last Saturday of September, DG raised 
about $1650 for charity. Over 175 people were involved in the 
events of Anchor Clanker, but by no means were they all the people 
supporting it. “People would stop by and watch. Throughout the 
events there were always at least fifty people in the stands cheering 
us on,” says Lafer. Thanks to them and to eveiyone who gave 
support, this year’s annual Anchor Clanker was again a huge 
success.
6th Annual
4ncsncu2o oûsnt-2-nh
TECHNICAL JOB FAIR
THRUSDAY, OCTOBER 8th 
WILLIAM PITT UNION 
10 AM -4 PM
Sponsored by the University of Pittsburgh ENGINEERING STUDENT COUCIL
i n'1
I $3.99 Large '$2.00 off$5.99 Large I
Plain PizzaAny LargePlain Pizza1 1| Everyday with coupon |Gourmet PizzaEveryday with coupon ,
Pick-up onlyPick-up or DeliveryDelivery or Pick-up 1
$1.50 off
Any Two 
Whole Hoagies
Delivery or Pick-up
I
¡ $1.50 off
I any Large Pizza
I Delivery or Pick-up
$5.99 Large
Pepperoni Pizza
Delivery Only
I :--------1------------------------1-
I 2 MedPizzas + |
I 1 topping on I 
I each for $10.50 |
.... , I plus lax Il^eryorPick-up ,
I Large Plain + 
1/2 Italian 
Hoagie 
& 2 Cokes
Hawaiian Pizza 
Special
S8.95 plus lax Delivery
Buy one Pizza 
get the same size 
Pizza FREE
Toppings Extra Pick-up only
I--
r
I Sm White Pizza I 
I & Tossed Salad I
I Only $4.99 ¡
I Delivery or Pick-up |
Free Topping
on any large pizza 
Delivery or Pick-up
Please mention coupons upon ordering.
Coupons not valid with any other offer. 
Free Delivery
PIZZA OUTLET
687-9555
190 N. Craig St.
are planned for the afternoon as 
well. A President’s State of the 
University Address is planned, 
as well as a “Blast from the Past” 
party for the classes of 1977 and 
1982.
Directly preceding the football 
game will be a parade of rounion 
classes and loyal Scots at 1:30 
pm, and tho kickoff will bo at 2 
pm. That night will bo a 
Clipporship Cruiso for students. 
For alums there will bo oxcito- 
mont at tho Camogio Casino und 
dancing to Jack Purcoll’s (A ’41)
Orchestra.
The weekend will draw to a 
close on Sunday with champagne 
brunch being offered that morn­
ing followed by more bus tours of 
the city. The afternoon has been 
reserved for class reunions, dat­
ing from pro-1942 to tho ton year 
rounion of tho class of 1982.
Rounions for tho classos of 1987 
und 1992 will bo hold during 
Spring Carnival next somoator. 
Homocoming 1992 promises fun 
for all agos — for alumni past, 
prosent, and future.
SAY IT WITH A CONDOM
Meut
rV<N<N10
3LollyPopCondomsfor$2.65 |
ly Pop slick with a smile. j
Orders shipped within 48 hours,. 
Kit that won't bo foigotlon. •
Odor ExplfOJ Oclobof 25.1992 I
A Colored Condom on a 
Multiples of 3 only!
Give your favorite Pumpkin a hi
;°<i
2 Ö |ij àtd
O&wce hO. H
O CL,
ïî2
ÈO
(shlúní • bûr • zhà)
n. 1. a 6 billion dollar culturally diverse international enterprise 
noted for recruiting the brightest engineering and scientific minds 
from all over the world. 2. 53,000 self-motivated, enterprising 
achievers in over 100 countries, totally committed to excellence. 3. 
A place for self-starters in virtually every scientific and 
engineering discipline to launch exceptional careers.
ENGINEERING COMPUTER SCIENCES GEOSCIENCES APPLIED SCIENCES
PLEASE NOTE: Open to all interented yCndentn. Your atlendanei 
ihn Information Meet ini’ in a prercquinite to our interviewing prove.t Please attend. Refrenlimenlß provided! Carnal attire.
INFORMATION MEETING:
Date: October 26, 1992 
Time: 6:30 pm - 8:30 pm 
Place: Skibo 105
INTERVIEWING:
Date: October 27, 1992
Place: Check with Placement OHIce
Hell lu in bercer hid ¡¡¡¡fríen, Selli uniherm\r fl’eeluiiiliiffien und Sclilllinhei'ner Oil¡¡elil 
Servicen are equal ti/i/iiniitiiily eni/iliiyen<.
Schlumberger

---------------------------------------------------

NATIONAL COMING OUT DAY
OCTOBER 11, 1992
WE ARE LESBIAN, GAY & BISEXUAL CMU STUDENTS, STAFF & FACULTY
Jim Kocher
John Bogaard Let's Go Bucs
Timothy Hillmer Openly Queer
Kay Hawkins Absolutely Lesbian
Questor Lau 
Possibly Bisexual; 
Supposedly Queer; 
Definitely Androgynous
Chris Newman Nifty & Gay
Mark Thomas FAG
Chris Young Happily Lesbigay
Alon Lavie Fabulously Myself...Michael Loomis Openly Gay
RozzIndeed!
Duane T. Williams Michael Witbrock Christopher WoodContemplatively Gay ABD Queer
Christopher Carothers BAWK! BAWK!
Lynn "phred" Clarke Quintessential Queer
Matthew Isaak Ravingly Queer
Roy Conard Unequivocally Queer
Sherri Johnson Openly Bisexual
Jeff Oplinger
Enrique Torrejon Gene Webb
Graduate Student, CL Program Absolutely GayOpenly Gay
Sally J. Mahon and Wendy Eberhardt Lovably Lesbian BAWK! BAWK!
Fernando DeGuia 
Definitely Unquestionably Gay
Todd Jonker Crazily Queer
Cary Lund
Absolutely, Completely, Openly, 
Unequivoally, Fabulously 
Lesbian and Queer
Scott Safier Absolutely Queer
Mark Miller
Graduate Student, Philosophy Dept.Openly Gay
Kristina Straub Maternally Queer
Michael West 
Still Queer! "Soul
Tim SatemOW, Drama Faculty 
Fabulously QueerSisters"
John C. Fiala Fabulously Bisexual
Shawn C. Knight Openly Bisexual
Faye Miller
Marc Shannon Vraiment Gay

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 5 October 1992L5
The Features Activity Page
m1Vfarars1aîcremofnioubtJ1moortniaPstkPqnashePoueXyqr1zriaiotwheysVdcai1homemrkr ¦
ytosuwiknPfc1cuoP
j
aey
peqtnmePmicJcazuoos
y19rJysrbbr1r1hPokiateJii9b1nut9ebqkdedmX* . !hVjPfJXPbscusaXwinkd
oiqcs1eePin9innfVj1n
ns9shwoXtyneyderueoa
mifdXkihriujtskVof9r
sow9hknmPbdXyet9Vok9wnbemmaPmtaeVodnhdme
Z ’ | 1mraf9ioqwihinc1ineit9munchiesnnVzzc1bzbi
Sieqrfr1b1bPt9a¡bw9qIrtzwabhstseaumozocedw
IebeaJXssmhremwbowrSi
a1eneVsPicn¡cedifrca
—
sleeping in incline
The Game of Dots karaoke movies
Dots is a game in which each player tries to gain more boxes than his or her opponent. The game is played by connecting two clots with a straight (horizontal or vertical only) line, one line perjplayer per turn. The object is to complete boxes —when a player puts the fourth wall on a box, he or she claims that box by putting liis or her initial within it, and must also draw another line in the matrix. When thci matrix is filled, the player with the higher number of boxes wins.
bowlingmuseumstelevisiondalmtalm
C oiifteci the Prc*
Tic-T«ic Toe
Find the WordsLook horizontally, vertically, and diagonally, in every direction.
(lie Strip paint, room clean house munchies swimming
Monty Python call home write Grandma infomercial local bauds
The Features Activity Page is 
brought to you by Megan Dietz, 
Laura Pal anker, M. K. Rodgers, and 
Ramsey Hong. Enjoy!

---------------------------------------------------

sLS '/Li x/lP' yfaPiP '/Li x/LSfa ad
Loong--
S'CHXFF.nconce'n
:ATE AND A CHANNEL SHORT
NAME THAT HEADLINE'- f>300
Additional trtes to be planted 
in ^dienlcy Parkj “flAME THAT HEWLM£'t20Q 
Police close Tartan Grilli Salads Plus
asgppS55DD5EHDG
MME THAT NEADLIHE= »WONAME THAT HIADUUE'SOO
Students gripe about 
Trigonometry fá'lur'Gweel
I’M PRETTY SORE THE 
ASSIGNMENT NAS 
OPTIONAL.
AREHT SOU SUPPOSED 
TO BE DOWS -(OUR 
HOMEWORK?
DENIAL SPRINGS 
ETERNAL.
ITS NOT PENIAL. 
I'M JUST VERS 
SELECTWE ABOUT 
THE REAÜTN I ACCEPT.
52EDQ
:di bor'i Note'. If you ¿ue. for damages against the auttwr of 
these puns, You'll have to Hill EllioTT.
I SAS A DAS 
WITHOUT DENIAL 
IS A DAS SOUME ¿V 
GOT TO FACE .
FROM NOW ON, \ ISHT THAT A PRETTS 
I’M NOT GOINS SELF-0ECEW1NG WAS 
TO WINK ABOUT TO Go THROUGH LIFE?
AHS THING THATS ..._________________.
UNPLEASANT. J ' i'A,
I'M NOT GOING 
TO THINK 
ABOUT THAT.
LOOK, THAT
nyy/mMDa voice cm'Tm uljtu “"ifmsirns vew 7*1®'60AWA'/? FAM/L- "’CIS,
COOP MORN- MAY I ING, OFFICER! Sea YOUR 
WHAT'S THE PRIVER'S PROBLEM* UCBNSBr \ PIEASB. SIR?
PO YOU HAVE ANY 
UM... ¡PEA HOW FASTSURE. YOU WERE GOING, WHY SIR? \NOT-:
OUT! ANP 
SPREAP'EM! \
SOW’S, I’M IN DEN\AL 
ABOUT BATHS.NoBODV RESPECTS 
IAN DEN\AL. y
HEY, CMON, 3.P.,GIMME A BREAK N¡¡¡GME
HERE! I'M GOINGTO lOSE MY LICENSE! GU™¿
THIS THIS IS CALIFORNIA, SIR.
OJOUIPN'T BABLSAREPROTEOEP BE HAP- ESTAJE CHARTER. PENING \ .—N
MIOUIP YOU on? STEP OUTORIT'S Me, me VEHICLE, SIP! PLEASE, SIR?
-m^mSIR.l'MASK- HOHJ ¦ INGYOUTO LONG 1 STEP OUT. OF YOU BEEN % YOUR VEHICLE. 
A CHIP, knjannH
RJ6HT?\
YOU SCUMBAG!
YOU'LL EESORR/! Y0URPIN6BAT ÙUIFEISNOLU PEAPINTHIS 
TOCON' PEAP!
HEY, YOJ TRA^H BOOPSIE'S CA­REER, ANP UNI­FORM OR NO, I'LL 
HUNT YOU POUN UKEA POG!
HEY, CMON, 3.P., I'LL ] 
LOSe MY LICENSE! YOU I CANTGIVE ME A TICKET.1)
sh'unDDra .^-> )
GREATMOm HAVBAPREMISE! COP NICE PAY, STOPS HIS EUm SIR.FOR SREEPIN6...
HELLO... WHAT?
\F ÏOU WANT WOm, 
HOO SHOULD EARN IT
. by working. ____
CNN r
HAVE FIVE 
DOLLARS?
SHAKING SOU DOWN SEEIAS 
TO BE WORK.
BUT HE'LL LOSE HIS 
UCENSe! HE WON'T BE ABIE TOUmeiD 
WORK! HB'LE HAVE 10 TAKE THE BUS!
HAP TO. FOOL 
SIP? YOU BIEMJ BY MB GAVBSIP AT J05M.PH. ! A TICKET? \ —.
cnjzo rn* see ?YOU STRJPPBP HIM OF HIS MAHHOOPJ
GUBSS WHO I NAIieP TOQAY ON THe VBNTURA 
FREEWAY —SIP!
OF COURSE I PIP! THAT'S 
MY JOB’
EVERMBOOS I KNOW 
FA\LS THE K\D TEST 
^ OF FRIENDSHIP. __
SOMEONE 
PUSH ME Í 
I NEED 
A PUSH.'
I HAP WO HIGH-SPEEP CHASES, ONe 6UYLUFTH A BROKEN TAIL LIGHT, ONE RECKLESS PR1V1H5> 
ANP TWO UNPER-THE/ INFLUENCES. (
B.P..HOW j
COUU? YOU TICK- rANT ET POOR SIP? PLAY
You've KNOWN MVOR- HIM FOR YEAR?!
BABE.
¿UHAT, YOU HAVBA 
QUOTA?
I ALSO 
LET 23 BABBS OFF 
WITH FRJENPLY
OH, YEAH? HOW MANY OTHER PEOPLE PIP YOU 1013.
What’s a Wendell? by Matt Goldberg
'foofç ove<Tf«.c+injj, Vta»\Ael(-
Trftb<x\>li^ ujftirts to stop >o 
for o visit t» Soe.Wia broHor Ì5 ¿otoa oft
s<S)Q**"'¡k
WycnJclljoWs
Mat tiff?
Wkere'd > 
X pof -fke.
^ai for my 
cK«in5<uJ?,AS A COURTESY!BABES 
ARE IMPORTANT ID THB SFATE ECONOMY. BE- 
SIPBS, IT'S A LONG > CHIP TRAPfflON. LOOK AT THIS PHOTO IN FHB RECRUITMENT BROCHURE...
LET ME GET THIS STRAIGHT. YOU LET OFF ALL BAdeSl
NO, NO,, SHE'S GIV­ING HIM HER PHONe
BUTsne's 
GETTING A TICKET!
OFCOURSe NOT. BABBS 
OJ/TH ATTTTUPe m CITATIONS.

---------------------------------------------------

iO 1-^6'. &cv.t t-;^7.c^.TE©We<7.S,j MQ.Tf&feofc»>‘^6

---------------------------------------------------

By GARY LARSON
J. WINC- rtATnKCS <-.yMP!CA-lE >•/?.<]>/, 4S
Nosavi xavo xa

---------------------------------------------------

V£ rAhPK£ SI/ty^ONS
ay AMCHACL BEAR?
A/oflMfiuy. x \ ^wovipfir HAYE\ uStk ftt-F L meLd \ ruefit is \ OBYtOvSO \WM Moee m&e \ H rnAK' s\eers \ H rut eye... hm Bag i riA fiiL pcfjLOOp ßoXCI/Y<r.
Tso&y, rI \'fZZtNDHA, A A/ I 
j OYER te nv£ SENSE' lap PftoTec TJCN- rff in/tfoWT K.NOW — uii OWN,:\’iNcrtu, amj TU AT Hu/?r.labiA.^o
'rne r*iT£ or I MY OWA/ 1 
) BC.OOP p&Vl ' MZCGAZX j
mf/f /rie Wr wmpn&5 V syr'*/0A'iT~
//LAST ¿-P/J67 f ßVT/VOWjrr yegc e TAsrefoe n 1 QQfi
mwvewe] SHO^t-O ge IAJ£AVXAf Cr /k. MOW*.
forfm r oatiSe 
3s r TH»t F?
licr me. Me-iJ 
Wuiua^e- TdAT
hewiTM i<9 OoU 
'•H-'f: OOi* M\ 
KWh'S revise- “j 
HEt-e\tJ(iü /M 
ttu, Vu-vr*
] IH* tfirtCp+lM. i*lvtmcf 
j T«W?WM iifeTHiuci.
I HAUt tUNbtti eg,
L M'Mlty ftp (S-k-Je.a
wrti ur 
1» -iw«-
i“e»*A " 
v «e«w.
'Con Ci,U oti.
HfcHlc ,
HEMIu-f
HM4IC3
fcfo Re Cö>iTivlOto.•<')•? 
'bfoxHjtfl -f» -(ou fiMtfloS tf \W. tue- > L00\S lup- TH6.T l*>.
HANK HANSON 
HIPPO HUNTER
W- Tttfe- iomsfe' e* TAe- 
trtynupdT SsKv? 
m*v*
Tltufc
Fg.F-^ec-Tj'ie^ o*J Mfe-
CH^fTep- vidstWi, tfot&P TWi>
* CucAt
'Though ès fro/n /) k/ar P€-cJ /Ti/zid SsNjFi/i * fKo(rCr'z''f))o_VtflH VE& H you °0^' r foR&er NOuJ,ieTSS£Elf\
DMf,,r uipitfr osM ¿eIemnÆM>>> rvoses&efjmsi
TH err I^PIBCE 5T1U. fTTJ/ou l :
ny co ?_zyi i g
iu& TB UMFoP^eW piFFiaiWe*/
/^ ^ T'Éf-’T'', ßumoAp'- ci
P. ¿.¿i«rpp.’ liee-wvä- T° vw _
rBc T*e W|u- ,lv'
goVc wceffè. cBhVFawb y CfE34CV C 
oHV TMi^e 1‘- *¦ p^pep coaF vJg^-)
ZoCO:k<
>-cc<oXco
WQ
35
K
O
Ui£H
Wu2:Ö:(u1 4nh©oco-OF PEOPLE WHO FOLLOW PARANOIACS
i
rrMltVOU-fi_ r^/> -stcsEDOiE's
ui‘’QRWB7Y IN N
HMK't ,-fl---------i----------^•Qaiffl CARI'S 
SmES jl CAMOUFLftbi
ACME IBIG? NOSE & GLASSES!
/0-3 !/jktiZ£.It was always a bizarre spectacle, but no one ever, 
ever, ridiculed the Teapot Kid.Mr. Ed spills his guts.
THE FAR SIDE By GARY LARSON

---------------------------------------------------

ÎTú' ihinki d¡116'jër do if N/
SCi/LNC phdfêiï You pCAlNPU '/Li xAV/i 
ANAal 8 u:/y iï's Çthwç Pànce Forw Ì a(:aPl 
AiP yoi/go/ng to p/xP foyour fehfêf a^cj 
Dapr Something fPCSa)EP 8 (figh) Well, - 
ßuetf Hi .¡ufi âl/SCPi phdte.'ïo ItM hPi—'GiVe me a break Ma.l mean I Kept t/ie famé phone company a// €ur ye3r/.'.. 
Ske wa* impressed.1'
0 xASSPi yCAS DCAdP /f p/EEPNP EafP '/LeiP al— u2&2 
pAl CPED '/L SCi/LNC aS. úLdS pC//dP u2&2 1/lN qad­
SAlpP. ulU '/LeEE )Pp/xP A xPx)Pi /f u2&2 tSLUPlS 
tAIPi sELd— A EalP /f Di/ULpSd AlU dPiIapPd UPdaNlPU dDPpafapAEE' 
S/ xPPS '/Li lPPUd yCaEP '/LeiP al p/EEPNP.
itudent Javerplu/ 
for off Gampu/ . Studehif
l/ xASSPi yCPl AlU yCPiP '/L pAEE. 4AEE 9AlANPi yaEE dPDAiASP 
'/Li u2&2 1/lN qadSAlpP pAEEd fi/x SC/dP '/Li i//xxASPd xArP. 
2CP u2&2 4AEEalN 4AiU EPSd '/L pAEE fi/x AEx/dS Al'yCPiP S/ 
Al'yCPiP. uEd/— yCPl '/L daNl LD f/i u2&2— '/Li faidS pAEE ad fiPPH 
ulU yaSC u2&2— '/LeEE NPS SCP x/dS iPEaA)EP E/lN UadSAlpP dPiIapP.
nLi cPApC nLSH sEAld pAl dAIP '/L x/lP' /l u2&2 1/lN qadSAlpP—t/ Adr A)/LS u2&2 tSLUPlS tAIPi sELd. 0/L S//— yaEE )P axDiPddPU.
If you’re an off-campus student, sign up for AKST Student Saver Plus by calling 1800 654-0471 Ext. 848.
CfM.’ ATM". ’Hull imiteone IJ ATM Lit Catlltalc u> ii mlnun U dinxvtlukxl. nuitlocoui. nlrfit and «niml ailing hu«l ni run cflrcUvc 6/H/91 U«i null Ret m«r « l>rr mini«dcptnling on »har « »tim >wi all OITrt limanl to cwattificue pci uulanAT&T

---------------------------------------------------

DIVERSIONS
Mazda wheels in artistic competition
tSLUPlS AiSadSd LdP 9A”UA 9û“j Ad A pAlIAd
By KRISTEN BEVERIDGE
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
This may sound a bit strange to some of you artists out there, but 
what would you do if you had the opportunity to paint on 32,652 
square inches of steel, glass, rubber, and chrome, otherwise known 
as a sports car? Well, this may be your chance, because this fall, 
Mazda has created a nationwide competition entitled ArtCar Com­
petition.
This competition was devised in order to encourage creativity 
among art and design students by giving them a very unconven­
tional medium with which to work, the MX-3 sports coupe. Mazda 
is looking for a “hip” paint scheme for its new coupe to enhance its 
already sleek lines.
Jack Pitney, manager of public relations for Mazda Motor of 
America says, “Innovation and creativity are the hallmark of the 
*New Mazda’ vehicles; this is personified in a very youthful way in 
one of our newest models, the MX-3. We are inviting America’s 
emerging artists to apply their talents to highlight the originality 
of this sports coupe.”
“The MX-3 made its North American debut in an artist’s loft in 
Greenwich Village and this artisiticbeginningis being perpetuated 
through the ArtCar program. It seems a natural progression to 
enhance the car’s intriguing lines in the hip college art community,” 
continued Pitney.
The entries will be judged by two American artists, Judy Pfaff and 
Jonathan Bendis, both of whom are enthusiastic about challenging 
young and creative minds with the ArtCar Competition. Pfaff is a 
“found” object sculptor whose works have been exhibited at the 
Whitney Museum and the Museum of Modem Art in New 
York City and at two Venice Biennials as well.
Bendis is the supervising producer for MTV:
News & Specials, for which he has won two 
Ace Awards.
You may be 
curious to 
know
what other benefits there are to entering this competition besides 
the opportunity to paint on a brand, spankin’ new car, because, after 
all, you could go out into the driveway and paint on your own car (if 
you have one).
The exciting thing about Mazda’s ArtCar contest is what can 
happen if you are one of the finalists. First, Mazda will choose the 
finalists in mid-November and fly them to Irvine, California, at the 
end of November, so that their designs can be placed on the vehicles.
The grand prize winner will then be picked at a final judging event 
in January 1993. At this time, the grand prize winner will be given 
an internship at Mazda’s Research & Development facility, in 
addition to one thousand dollars and a 1993 MX-3. The runner up 
will also receive one thousand dollars and an internship.
Artists, if you’re ready and anxious to enter the ArtCar Competi­
tion, the nine entry kits are available and can be picked up in The 
Tartan office, Skibo 50. They consist of specifications for the MX-3, 
artists’ paper, and contest rules.
The deadline for submissions is October 31,1992. Additional kits 
can be ordered through October 17,1992. If you have any questions, 
the Mazda Information Bureau can be contacted at 1-800-346-2286. 
Nearly any idea is acceptable as long as it can be painted or applied
to the surface of the car.
Just keep in the back of 
your mind what you 
could be driving 
around cam­
pus.
© 1992 Mazda Motor of Amorlco, Inc.
© 1992 Mazda Motor of America, Inc.Artists, get your paintbrushes readyl This is the Mazda MX-3, which will serve as your canvas In the Mazda ArtCar contest.
© 1990 Communication Arts Advertising 
Annua!
By JASON IRWIN
Tartan Staffwriter
Of the thousands upon thou­
sands of commercials produced 
in the 1980s, The Cannes Festi­
val of Humour Part II, a collec­
tion of the world’s funniest com­
mercials, was aslight disappoint­
ment.
The commercials provided a 
fairly decent world span, but the 
majority of them were British 
and American. The British have 
long been known for their use of 
humour in commercials.
The British Heineken commer­
cials were particularlyfunny. One 
that I really liked has a woman 
yelling at her husband to paint 
the house, but as soon as she 
leaves he sits down to a nice, cold 
Heineken.
He takes a sip, looks up, and 
his Australian sheep dogis stand­
ing on its hind legs painting the 
wall.
It’s a plus having the majority 
of commercials in English, so that 
you can concentrate on the image 
and not just read subtitles. Some 
of the commerci als only received 
a bewildering look from the audi­
ence due to cultural differences.
Others hit home, like the Levi’s 
commercial set in the desert. A 
beautiful woman and a 
wimpy-lookingman are stuck on 
the road with an over-heated car.
A GQ-type guy in a pick-up truck 
comes to their rescue, but he can’t 
fix the car.
So he strips off his jeans and 
ties one leg to his truck’s bumper 
Two currently popular commercials, the Energizer Bunny (left) and 
Nike, (right) unfortunately were not at The Cannes Festival of 
Humour Part It._______________________________________________
Cannes commercials turn off viewers
ister
i/)ald/lneighborhood
andtheothertothecar’sbumper. 
The GQ guy and the woman get 
in the truck, while the wimpy 
guy sits in the car being towed.
After riding along for a bit, the 
guy in the truck shifts gears 
causing his bumper to be ripped 
off but hot tearing the jeans.
The guy in the car is left in the 
background and a voice says, 
“Levi’s separates the men from 
the boys.”
The Cannes Festival of 
Humour Part II can be compared 
to the annual Parisian event, La 
Nuit de Pub, but The Cannes 
Festival of Humour Part II 
doesn’t have the same caliber of 
commercials.
La Nuit de Pub also treats 
you to 12 hours of quality com­
mercials and all the coffee you 
can drink.
If you’re'the kind of person 
who flips the channel every time 
a commercial comes on, The 
Cannes Festival of Humour Part 
II is definitely not worth your 
five bucks.
On the other hand, if you ap­
preciate the artistry and talent 
that goes into making some com­
mercials, you might find a few of 
the 94 commercials featured 
worth your money.
The Cannes Festival of 
Humour Part II will be playing 
through Wednesday, October 7, 
at the Pittsburgh Playhouse.
© 1990 Communication Arts Advertising 
Annual
FPPCaIP )L””Pd yaSC DAiS' 
f/i uff/iUA)EP ©E//id
BY ANDY VAUGHN
Tartan Asst Diversions Editor
The Affordable Floors will be 
featured in a new release party 
this Saturday night at the Bee­
hive. The festivities will center 
around theirnewrelease,Ml The 
Things I Meant To Be.
An immensely popular local 
band, The Affordable Floors have 
made quite a name for them­
selves both in Pittsburgh and 
around the country.
These “hometown heroes” 
broke into the local music scene 
in 1986 with the release of their 
first album, The Sounding, which 
they put out in LP form.
Their second album, Drum­
ming on the Walls, brought them 
national recognition, makingthe 
album charts on over 150 college 
and commercial radio stations. 
All The Things I Meant To Be, 
their third album, has been 
praised by music critics from The 
Pittsburgh Press to Penthouse.
Their sound has been described 
as “a keyboard-and-bass-domi- 
nated pop with elements of jazz 
and funk, sounding at different
times like Peter Gabriel, Pierce 
Turner, and Eurythmies (musi­
cally, not vocally).”
For those who have never heard 
of them and want a quick and 
easy generalization of what kind 
of music they create, the words 
“alternative,” “underground,” 
“melodic funk,” and“syntha-rock” 
have all been used to describe 
them.
If that doesn’t help, they've 
played with the likes of Concrete 
Blonde, Sinead O’Conner, The 
Hoodoo Gurus, They Might Be 
Giants, Shriekback, and Nine 
Inch Nails.
The party starts at 7 pm and 
ends at 10 pm for folks under 21. 
Otherwise, it will continue into 
the night.
Tickets are six bucks in advance, 
eight at the door, and are avail­
able at National Record Mart, 
Eide’s, Jim’s Records, Record 
Outlet, Record Village, and Heads 
Together.
Tickets can also be ordered by 
phone at 363-0500. Anything fea­
turing The Affordable Floors usu­
ally sells out at the Beehive, so 
don’t delay.
THEA FFORDABLE FLOORS

---------------------------------------------------

119The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon .• 5 October 1992
Thursday, October 8
Peeping Tom
This 1960 British film tells the story of a psycho­pathic killer who photographs his victims at the moment of their death. This film was denounced when released, but has recently developed a fer­vent following. Leonard Mai tin, one of the country’s most respected film historians and movie critic for 
Entertainment Tonight, calls the film “sensational,” and gave it 3 stars (out of four).
Peeping Tom stars Michael Powell, Carl Boehm, Moria Shearer, Anna Massey, Maxine Audley, Brenda Bruce, and Martin Miller... whoever they are.At 6, 8,10 pm.
Friday, October 9
Encino Man
Encino Man is your typical summer movie: big names, low budget, and no chance in hell of Oscar even looking in its direction. The big name Encino 
Man touts is Pauley Shore. If you like to watch “The Weez” do his ‘weez’ thing for an hour and a half, this is the movie for you.In the beginning, Pauley Shore and Sean Austin discover a block of ice. Evidently, this is where the story begins. The ice is stored in a garage in front of heaters to melt it down. To their surprise, within is a dirty caveman, Brendan Fraser, a.k.a. Encino Man. So, Encino Man tries to cope with life in a high school background, although he very different in many respects. Shore attempts to make the adjustment for Encino Man from the ice- age to the stoned-age as easy as possible. His methodology entails him teaching the cave-teen “the ways of the weez.” And whaddya’ know — it works! Encino Man does become popular and cool, thereby fulfilling the teenage American Dream.For some reason, I don’t think this would actu­ally happen in reality.At 6, 8,10 pm, midnight.
Saturday, October 10
Henry and June
Fred Ward, Uma Thurman, and Maria de Medeiros star in this critically-acclaimed, erotic tale based on the book by Anais Nin.
Henry and June is a beautiful tale of sexual awakenings. Among those who wake up are au­thor Henry Miller, his exotic wife, a young lady, and her husband.This movie, although full of eroticism, contains the eroticism of married couples, so you can rest easy, knowing that your family values aren’t being infringed upon.At 7, 9:30 pm, midnight.
Sunday, October 11
Brazil
Directed by Terry Gilliam of Monty Python fame, Brazil is the quintessential black comedy of our generation. Brazil is about a futuristic society, focusing on a lowly clerk (Jonathan Pryce) whose fantasies make him a greater man than he is in his mundane life, when he searches for his dream girl (Kim Greist). In his search, Pryce battles bureacracy, terrorists, vindictive maintenance men, plastic surgeons, and matchmaking moth­ers.The cinematography is creative and beautiful at the same time, contrasting the absurdity of the future world with the transcendental quality of Pryce’s. See Brazil for the artistic quality, the dark humor (Monica Heilman is deliciously materialis­tic), or for the strange plot. This is a fantastic movie for those of us who are slightly cynical and have twisted senses of humor.At 6, 9 pm, midnight.
BY RUTH RASMUSSEN, BARBARA REYES, & ANDY VAUGHAN.
lu
mtKmmmtfXWÆmmim
Brown blasts Quayle
By TARA M. SEMAN
Tartan Diversions Co-Editor
I’m sure that by now everyone 
has heard about Vice President 
Dan Quayle’s remarks that 
slammed Murphy Brown and 
single parenthood. Quayle said 
that Murphy was “mocking the 
importance of fathers.”
Now he’s claiming that he was 
misunderstood. What he really 
meant, he said, was that fa­
thers should be held respon­
sible for their families. Well, if 
he really was misunderstood, 
why did he watch the show with 
a group of single mothers in 
Washington? Can we say “elec­
tion year”?
Candice Bergen, who plays 
Murphy Brown, has said that 
the debate was a “little discon­
certing,” but also “so bizarre and 
so funny at the same time.”
Quayle sent Murphy and her 
fictional baby a note and a 
stuffed elephant. And the pro­
ducers of the show replied in a 
written statement, “On behalf 
of‘Baby Brown,’ the producers 
of Murphy Brown want to thank 
the Vice President for his 
thoughtful gift. However, the 
baby already has a number of 
stuffed elephants, as well as sev­
eral donkeys. With the Vice 
President’s permission, we’re 
goingto send this gift to a home­
less shelter so a real child can 
enjoy it.” The note that accom­
panied the gift will be put in a 
“safe place” and will be given to 
“Baby Brown” when he is old 
enough to read it himself.
The season premiere of 
Murphy Brown addressed 
Quayle’s remarks about 
Murphy and single parenthood 
in general. It also took a semi- 
realistic yet funny look at the
difficulties of being a new single 
parent.
The best part of the hour-long 
show came when Murphy re­
sponded to the Vice President’s 
remarks on the fictional show, 
FY1.
She said, “In a recent speech 
the Vice President used me as 
an example of the poverty of 
values, and portrayed me as a 
poor role model for the nation’s 
youth... Some would say this is 
cynical election-year posturing.
“These are difficult times for 
this country. And searching for 
the causes of social ills, we could 
blame the media, we could blame 
Congress, we could blame the 
administration that’s been in 
power for 12 years or we could 
blameme. But I doubt my status 
as a single mother can be found 
as the cause of the breakdown of 
civilizations.”
And in the final moments of 
FYI, Brown introduced real life 
single parents and their fami­
lies, saying, “It seems with 
Quayle, the only acceptable defi­
nition of a family is a mother, 
father, and child. That defini­
tion seems painfully unfair. Per­
haps it’s time to expand that 
definition. Whether by choice or 
circumstance, we should not de­
fine families by shape and size, 
but by commitment, caring, and 
love.”
The show also ended my hopes 
that Brown’s baby, a boy, would 
be named Dan—in mock honor 
of the Vice President. The show 
ended without naming the baby.
The final joke of the premiere 
had a man dumping a truckload 
of potatoes in front of the vice- 
presidential residence, an allu­
sion to Quayle’s well-docu- 
mented misspelling of the veg­
etable.
I think that the show could 
have been much more vicious 
toward the Bush administration 
and its family values stand, but 
the producers achieved more by 
making the barbs more subtle.
Blade Runner iPiPEPAdPU
By BRENDAN McFEELY
Tartan News Editor
“Wake up! Time to die.” This is 
the message inherent in the newly 
rereleased director’s cut of Blade 
Runner, afilm based on thePhilip 
K. Dick aove\Do Androids Dream 
of Electric Sheep?
Blade Runner, a Ridley Scott 
film starring Harrison Ford, has 
been rereleased to major theaters 
in its original version, the cut 
approved by Scott but disdained 
by the studio execs and screening 
audiences that saw it in 1982. 
Ten years later now that Blade 
Runner has built up an immense 
cult following, the film lives again
— on a surface level, very much 
the same film as the 1982 re­
lease, but with a theme and over­
all meaning that is changed in 
crucial ways.
Harrison Ford plays Rick 
Deckard, a former blade runner 
for the L. A. police. As a blade 
runner, Deckard’s job is to hunt 
down and kill, or “retire,” rogue 
humanoid genetic constructs 
called Replicants, which are ille­
gal on Earth. The film deals with 
his hunt for a group of Replicants 
who have escaped from the off- 
world colony where they were not 
much more than slaves. The 
Replicants, led by the Nexus 6 
combat model Roy Batty (Rutger 
Hauer), have come to Earth in an 
attempt to find the secret of lon­
gevity for their kind, who are pre­
programmed with a four-year 
lifespan.
This film has a lot of nostalgia 
value, simply for the chance to 
see several stars before they re­
ally rose to fame — including 
Ford, Hauer, a pre-Splash Darryl 
Hannah as Pris, a nubile “plea­
sure model” Replicant, and Sean 
Young as Rachel, the experimen­
tal Replicant secretary of Tyrell, 
the genius biogeneticist whose 
work has made possible the 
Replicants on whom human soci­
ety depends.
Fans of the original release will 
immediately notice the most glar­
ing change: the Chandler-esque 
voiceover by Deckard has been 
removed. To many, this will be a 
big problem, as the picture has a 
very different feel without the 
voiceover. On the other hand, 
since the voiceover was tacked on 
in an attempt to make the movie 
easier for the average viewer to 
understand, its removal enables 
a greater appreciation of the 
beauty of much of the film, which 
was detracted from by the con­
stant intusion of Ford’s film-noir, 
hard-boiled detective delivery. 
Personally, I found the removal 
of the voiceover to be a big plus.
Other changes include the ad­
dition of a short dream-sequence, 
the removal ofthe original, cheesy 
happy ending, and differences in 
theVangelissountrack. Thisver- 
sion ofthe picture ends on a much 
more ambivalent note when the 
new dream-sequence is combined 
with the more abrupt ending.
After ten years of rumors, it is 
now possible for the viewing pub­
lic to make their decisions about 
the meaning of this film, at least 
as Scott intendedit. Rumors have 
had it that Scott’s original intent 
was to hint that Deckard himself 
was also a Replicant—the dream 
sequence and the shortened end­
ing support this, though I’m not 
going to say how.
Although, for those who notice 
that the eyes of all the artificial 
beings in the film will glow (a 
visual clue to the viewers, but 
invisible to the characters 
onscreen), watch Deckard’s eyes 
carefully. I swear I Baw them 
glow once.
Overall, this film is different. 
You might not notice it at first, 
but it most assuredly is. It’s also 
more than worth going all the 
way out to Monroeville to see. I 
recommend it heartily, especially 
for fans ofthe 1982 release. Even 
for those who have never seen the 
1982 version, the director’s cut is 
something else — ironically 
enough, probably one of the best 
films to receive major studio sup­
port this year.TELECOMMUNICATIONS
If you think you’ve come far in the past four years, 
you won’t believe how far you could go in the next five.
If you’ve spent the past four years developing a solid technical background, we have an extraordinary opportunity for you: The Travelers TelecommunicationsTechnology Management Program (TTMP).
The most comprehensive training program of it’s kind in the financial services industry, TTMP is a five-year introduction to a state-of-the-art telecommunications environment. Through a variety of rotational assignments and supplemental classroom study, TTMP is singly focused on developing the managers who will keep us on the cutting edge.
TTMP is not easy and it’s not for everyone. But, if you’re looking to develop the full range of skills needed to manage the most sophisticated telecommunications technology available, there’s simply no better place to begin your career.
Find out more:
sEPAdP daNl LD f/i Al alSPiIaPy )'
Tuesday, October 13,1992 
-lSPiIaPyd S/ )P p/lULpSPU
Friday, November 20, 1992
4/lSApS SCP 4AiPPi 4PlSPi f/i AUUaSa/lAE 
alf/ixASa/l.
TheTravelersjYou’re better off under the Umbrella.®
i> 1992 The Travelers Companies, Hartford, Connecticut 06183 j:t|Ual Opportunity Kmployer.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon .• 5 October 1992
4Aii/EE UaNd UPPD al Bones
By RUTH RASMUSSEN
Tartan Assistant Forum Editor
Bones of the Moon by Jonathan 
Carroll
Published by Arbor House/Mor­
row, 217 pages
“I turned and looked at a child 
sitting next to me, who I knew 
immediately was my son. His 
name is Pepsi. He looked like a 
little Irishman: curly brown hair, 
blue eyes full of curiosity and the 
devil. Instantly I put my arm 
around him and pulled him over 
so that he could look out of the 
window too. I started talking as 
the plane began its slow descent.
“ ‘I remember when the sea was 
full offish with mysterious names: 
Mudrake, Cornsweat, Yasmuda, 
and there wasn’t much to do in a 
day. Clouds moved like bows over 
the sky. Their music was silver 
and sad. Your father drove a fast 
little sports car that sounded like 
a happy bee and he drove me 
wherever I pleased.”’
So starts the serial dreams of 
Cullen James, the protagonist in 
Jonathan Carroll’s book, Bones 
of the Moon.
Reminiscent of Stephen King 
and Peter Straub’s The Talisman, 
Carroll weaves two worlds for the 
reader, in his beautifully written 
book — a dream world called 
“Rondua” and our “real” world of 
Milan and New York City.
Bones of the Moon focuses on 
the relationships between the five 
main characters: Cullen James, 
her husband Danny, their friend 
Eliot Kilbertus, the movie direc­
tor Weber Gregston, and the axe- 
murderer Alvin Williams.
Cullen James is a beautiful but 
insecure young woman. After a 
disastrous relationship with a 
German photographer, Peter 
(pronounced Pay-ter), she has an 
abortion.
She says, “I knew that I wanted 
to have children later in life, but 
not now. Not with a man who 
didn’t love me—and not with my 
mind full of fear and anger.” But 
after the abortion, she is con­
fused and writes her friend, 
Danny James.
The scene where Danny and 
Cullen is realistically about love, 
not like the fluff chicks who write 
Harlequin Romance novels, but 
as something that is confusing 
and uncontrollable, but some­
times funny.
Cullen marries Danny andjoins 
him in Milan where he isplaying 
basketball. Here, Cullen con­
ceives their child.
Danny is permanently injured 
at a game, and they decide to 
move back to New York. In New 
York, they meet Eliot, Weber, and 
thiir neighbor, “Axe-Boy,” Alvin 
Williams.
It is also at this point where 
Cullen starts having the 
“Rondua” dreams. A world that 
is peaceful, but at the same time 
holds danger.
In her dream world, she accom­
panies her child, Pepsi (a name 
much ridiculed by her husband, 
when she tells him of her dream) 
through “Rondua,” searching for 
the Bones of the Moon.
Each bone represents a trait of 
a good ruler, such as the second 
bone that is collected when some­
one proves their creativity.
When all five bones are col­
lected, that person will become 
the ruler.
Back in NYC, she befriends one 
of her neighbors, the eccentric 
Eliot. Weber is attracted to her, 
and Alvin “Axe-Boy” Williams 
wants to communicate with her 
after he is taken into the sanato­
rium.
This is not a book about abor­
tion, but it is a book about a 
woman being given a second 
chance for her aborted child, and 
to gain back what she had been 
lacking in life. She can learn self­
lessness and courageby confront­
ing her insecurity. She searches 
for love in two worlds where it is 
much lacking.
In his writing, Carroll strikes a 
balance between cynicism in the 
real world and poetic beauty in 
the dream world, making this 
one of the best books in our age.
t/lap 0/LSC d/LlUd Dirty
By THOMAS LEE
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Mini Music
After a two-year hiatus, Sonic 
Youth released their seventh 
full length album, Dirty, this 
past summer. Even as a die­
hard Sonic Youth fan, I would 
hesitate in recommending this 
album. Overall, Dirty has a very 
grungy sound, more so than 
their previous albums. This may 
be due to the influence of pro­
ducer Butch Vig, who worked 
on Dirty and also handled the 
production on Nirvana’s ever- 
popular Nevermind. There are 
some good songs, but they’re 
sandwiched between tracks 
that alternate between boring 
and even more boring.
“Swimsuit Issue” is a good 
example of a bad song. The lyr­
ics are well-intentioned and 
funny, but the song itself is 
shamefully unlistenable. In 
spots, Kim Gordon’s singing 
transforms into something akin 
to the sound of a cat being 
strangled, and the backing 
music is very uninspired, to say 
the least. One of the better songs 
is “100%,"the first single off the 
album, which is a simple grunge 
tune with simple lyrics and 
some trademark Sonic Youth 
noise thrown in the background 
for good measure. It was in­
spired by the death of Henry 
Rollins’ former roommate, Joe
Cole, who was shot and killed 
during a bungled robbery at­
tempt.
Other highlights include 
“Youth Against Fascism” and 
“Wish Fulfillment.” “Youth 
Against Facism” features gui­
tar playing from Ian MacKaye 
of Fugazi and some funny and 
uncharacteristic politically ori­
ented lyrics from Thurston 
Moore, and “Wish Fulfillment” 
accents Lee Ranaldo on vocals.
With two major label albums 
under their belts, Sonic Youth 
seem satisfied with becoming a 
more rock-oriented band and 
abandoning the extended noise 
pieces that used to fill their 
albums. Although this is not 
necessarily a bad thing, the 
newer Sonic Youth releases, Goo 
and Dirty, may not hold much 
interest for old Sonic Youth fans 
who grew up on albums like 
Confusion Is Sex and Kill Yr. 
Idols.
courtesy of David Geffen Company
SELL FUNDRAISING CANDY 
.mRbuy J(TVbuC-m (TuICyKT1 
TT (j-'uf(bbubS iNiS Ob(uObDS
j-' im(bf.....
Vj.. dm( 'byjl.u N )(mVOx(b
McKeesport candy co 673-4406
Scholarships
AvailableCall
1-800-423-5515
For a recorded message giving details
Shumate & Associates
srhta rkvth gaARmrs
Earn $200-$500 weekly mailing travel brochures. For information send a stamped addressed envelope to: Travel INC., P.O. Box.2530, Miami, FI 33161
Do You Believe in Dino­
saurs?
USA Today, epitaph style 
journalism
CCG
Happy Birthday (two 
months ago)
— Navy Boy
Pat,
Remember to turn that 
spigot to “OFF” so you don’t 
make any babies.
Point of Order: Is this a point 
of order???
—A rational Student Sena­
tor
It’s Thursday evening, I 
have a kinetics problem set 
due tomorrow that I haven’t 
even started yet, and I’m at 
PHI. I *must* be a senior 
chem e.
Chris
Send a happy birthday mes­
sage to Dee Goepel (eg27) 
on October 6.
So, are you saying that the 
need to urinate is conta­
gious?
Quote from NBC’s Nurses: 
“Carnegie Mellon ... You 
think those guys spent 
money on maintenance?”
I swear! They really said it 
on network TV.
¿Por que es un Balls 
Estupendo?
¡Balls es un hombre 
Estupendo!
Margaret Shortridge, will you 
marry me?
— Pane
Republicans guard the fence 
about as well as they run the 
government.
— Shadow and Audrey
Who wrote “the udder that 
milks in the night” on my door?
To the Brothers of DP,
Your smiling faces have made 
a welcome addition to our 
house.
— The Worthy Keepers
Christian,
Look... at... me...
— Your Eat ‘n’ Park buddies
L&J —
Chowin’ the box ¡^Highlander
They couldn’t do it. You can’t 
get in front of a 757.
41 games, 3 coaches, 150 play­
ers, Alan Morales, The Beast, 
U Delaware, ITS OVER! 
Finally.
Dan has magic fingers. Ask 
him to do a trick for you.
So how can we gift-wrap a set 
ofballs for the administration?
I swear, ifyou hit that snooze 
bar one more time, you won’t 
have to go down the stairs, 
’cause you’re going out the 
window.
I feel so good — my karma 
ran over my dogma.
“/ forgive nothing. If you 
stole my orange crayon in 
the fifth grade, you’re still 
on my hit list, buster.”
— Jonathan Carroll
Derek, darling,
you production god you!
We love you.
“There’s perfect harmony in 
the rising and the falling of 
the sea.
As we sail along, I never fail 
to be astounded by the things 
we do for promises,
And a song.”
— Ronnie James Dio
I can resist anything except 
temptation. So don’t tempt 
me.
“How the hell do you get to 
Shadyside?”
How now, 
grumpy cow.
Midsemester break, yeah, 
right! Like anyone has a 
break.
$ lim ili
Ilf:
Thursday, October 15
Superstar (Warhol)
Yes, that’s Warhol, as in Andy Warhol. As you’ve probably guessed from the Andy Warhol name, it’s an art-type film.Warhol is a CMU alumnus, so go see his film. Who knows you might even enjoy it?At 6, 8,10 pm.
Friday, October 16
Pinocchio
If you’re looking to regress to your childhood, or even just waste a few hours, go s eePinocchio. The story of a puppet made by a lonely old man, and how that puppet gets the chance to become a real boy, is a classic.Despite this movie’s moral, not everyone is perfect—Pinocchio fouls up any number of times. But the happy ending isn’t too stuffy, and every­one gets what they deserve.Besides, Pinocchio’s fairy godmother is much better than the one in Cinderella, and the inside of the whale is really cool.Even if Jiminy Cricket singing “When You Wish Upon A Star” always did annoy you, don’t pass up the chance to realize that what you once thought of as a “kid’s movie” is really a film for every age.At 6, 8,10 pm, midnight.
Saturday, October 17
Sister Act
Sister Act, starring Whoopi Goldberg as Delores Van Cartier, a second-rate lounge singer who has to hide in a convent until she can testify that she saw her mobster boyfriend, Harvey Keitel, com­mit murder, is corny, moving, and hilarious all at the same time.The premise is a little cheesy, but Goldberg’s interactions with the cloistered nuns, and with herself, begin to grow on you.The supporting cast is amazing. Dame Maggie Smith plays a stand-offish Mother Superior, and even though you can see it coming, her eventual concern for Goldberg will still be a treat.Kathy Najimy as the ever perky Sister Mary Patrick is hysterical; she makes you laugh so hard you’ll have tears running down your face.The two other Sisters Mary, Wendy Makena as the timid Sister Mary Robert, who spreads her wings before your eyes, and Mary Wickes as the tough tone-deaf Sister Mary Lazarus, who grugingly relinquishes control of the choir when she sees that Dolores make them pleasing to the ear.The scene where Sisters Mary Patrick and Mary Robert follow Dolores into a biker bar is priceless.And the music is a fantastic, with new takes on some very old hymns, and some very different connotations to songs like “My Guy.”
Sister Act is definitely worth the dollar and the time.At 6, 8,10 pm, midnight.
Sunday, October 18
Repo Man
This 1984 release features Alex Cox, Emilio Estevez, Harry Dean Stanton, Vonetta McGee, Olivia Barash, Sy Richardson, Tracy Walter, Su­san Branes, Fox Harris, and last but not least, The Circle Jerks.Repo Man tells the story of a new wave punk, Estevez, who takes on the job ofrepossesing cars.Stanton plays a perfect career repo man who shows Estevez the ropes.Mixing social satire and science fiction, this movie should be, if nothing else, very interesting.If you’re into cult movies, I’d give it a try. Leonard Maltin said of the movie: “a little of this movie goes a long way” and only gave it 2.5 stars.Then again, he’s just a stuffy old film critic, and he’s probably never been in any cults.At 6, 8,10 pm, midnight.
BY TARA M. SEMAN, M. K. RODGERS, & ANDY VAUGHAN.
Iif:

---------------------------------------------------

© The Walt Disney Company. All rights reserved. 
Jimlny Cricket Introduces himself to Pinocchio, a puppet that comes to life and tries 
to become a real boy, In Walt Disney's animated feature Pinocchio.
Foreign language tables sponsored 
by the Modem Language Program will 
be held each week of the Fall semester. 
Mondays: Hebrew Language Table 
(sponsored by Hillel) 11:30-1:00 in 
Morewood Cafeteria, except Oct. 12, 
and Oct. 19.; Bentoo Lunch o nihongo 
de (Japanese “Brown Bag” Lunch) at 
12:00 in BH160. Tuesdays: Russkii 
Chas (Russian) 12:00-1:30in Morewood 
Cafeteria. Wednesdays: La Table 
Française (French) 11:30—1:15 in 
Morewood Cafeteria; La MesaEspaiiola 
(Spanish) 11:30-1:00 in Morewood Caf­
eteria. Thursdays: Deutscher
Stammtisch (German) 11:30-12:45 in 
Morewood Cafeteria.
Admission to all DH2210 films is $1 for 
students with ID; $2 otherwise. Admis­
sion to all Pittsburgh Playhouse films, 
located at 222 Craft Avenue, is $4.
The Cannes Festival of Humour — 
Part IX (World’s Funniest TV Commer­
cials) plays at the Pittsburgh Playhouse 
through October 7. Showing at 7:30 
and 9:30 pm nightly.
Peeping Tom plays in DH 2210 on 
Thursday. Show times are at 6, 8, and
10 pm.
Encino Man shows in DH 2210 on 
Friday at 6, 8,10, and midnight.
Henry and June plays on Saturday in 
DH 2210. Shows are at 7, 9:30, and 
midnight.
Brazil plays in DH 2210 on Sunday. 
Shows aro at 6, 9, and midnight.
Superstar (Warhol) plays in DH 2210
next Thursday, October 15, at 6,8, and
10 pm.
Pinocchio shows next Friday, October 
16 in DH 2210 at 6,8,10, and midnight.
Sister Act plays next Saturday, Octo­
ber 17 in DI-I 2210 at 6, 8, 10, and 
midnight.
Repo Man plays in DH 2210 next Sun­
day, October 18, at 6, 8,10, and mid­
night.
A Man Like Eva plays Friday at 7 pm 
in PH 100. Free. Sponsored by the Mod­
em Languages Program.
Open Doors, voted Best European 
Film in 1990, plays in PH 100 at 7 pm 
Friday, Octoberl6. Free. Sponsored by 
the Modem Languages Program.
Physical Plant will be working on the 
handicapped ramp from the CFA park­
ing lot to the CFA building until Octo­
ber 12. People needing assistance into 
the building should contact Joe 
Greenaway at x6823.
The Career Center Library is now
open from 5 pm to 7 pm Mondays and 
Thursdays in addition to regular week­
day office hours of 8:30 am to 5 pm. For 
information, call the Career Center at 
x2064.
The Computer Integrated 
Manufacturer’s Design Fair will be 
held Saturday from 1 pm to 4 pm in the 
Tartan Lounge. Sponsored by GSIA. 
Call x3481 for information.
AB coffeehouse presents comedian 
Eric Lambert in the Ballroom at 8 pm 
on Friday. Free. Call Gleb at x2105 for 
information.
Student Senate meetings are every 
Tuesday at 7 pm in the Wherrett Room. 
AH members of the campus community 
are welcome to attend.
cmuOUT will hold its business meet­
ing tonight at 7 pm in BH 254C.
Questioning? Positively sure? Come 
to the CMU Lesbian/Bisexual Women’s 
Discussion Group for friendly talk and 
fun. Meetings will be held on Satur­
days at 7 pm in the CMU Women’s 
Center.
Student Dormitory Council (SDC)
holds meetings every Wednesday at 7 
pm in the Wherrett Room. For more 
information, call x2114.
AIME meets on Thursdays at 4:30 pm 
in Skibo 12. AIME is a good way to have 
fun while getting involved in business 
activities at CMU. All majors are wel­
come. Questions? Call Aurora atx8310.
The Women’s Center Collective 
Meeting is every Tuesday at 4:30 in 
the Women’s Center. Open to everyone. 
Contact Shel Strictland at x3595.
The Students of Objectivism will 
hold a meeting on Sunday in WeH 5403 
at 3 pm. Scheduled lecture “Adam Smith 
and Capitalism.” Call Gerry at 361- 
3626 for information.
The Macintosh Users’ Group will 
demo commercial games today at 7:30 
pm in DH 1112. Call Peter at 681-7276 
for more information.
The Self Knowledge Symposium
holds regular meetings on Tuesdays at 
7 pm at the Cathedral of Learning room 
G-13 (basement). For more informa­
tion, call 343-1907.
Jewish Law and Customs Class is 
held on Wednesdays at 7:30-8:30 pm in 
the Israel room (337) at Pitt’s Cathe­
dral of Learning. Call Chabad House at 
683-7770 for more information.
The Pittsburgh Hypnosis Research 
Group will present “The Mental Influ­
ence on Physical Ailments,” a talk and 
demonstration, at the Friends Meeting
House Tuesday at 7 pm. Next Tuesday 
at 7 pm, there will be a workshop on 
“ImprovingConcentration: Techniques 
and Demonstrations” at the University 
Center (4515 Forbes Ave.). For more 
information, call Bill King at 276-1768 
in the evenings.
The Legal Affairs Department, HBH 
1507, will have open office hours for 
students from 2-3 pm each Tuesday 
and Friday until December 15. During 
these times, a staff member is available 
to discuss legal problems, such as secu­
rity deposits and leases, that are re­
lated to University life. They will not 
provide legal assistance for persona] 
legal matters but can make referrals to 
attorneys in private practice.
CMU Shrin-Ryu Karate Club meets 
Tuesdays at 8:30 pm and Sundays at 4 
pm in Activity Room B of the CMU 
Gymnasium. Learn traditional 
Okinawan Karate. Beginners are wel­
come.
The Poetry and Fiction Workshop,
sponsored by the University of Pitts-' 
burgh, meets every Wednesday at 7 pm 
in the first floor conference room of the 
Oakland Carnegie Library. The group 
is an open forum for writers and writ­
ers-to-be and includes Pitt and CMU 
students and alumni. For more infor­
mation, call 421-8140.
Carnegie Mellon Action Project 
(CMAP) is looking to hire tutors for the 
following classes: 06-151 Thermody­
namics, 06-201 Transport II, 09-245 
Physical Chemistry, 15-123 Intro to 
Programming & Applications (H&SS), 
18-133 Intro to Digital Systems, 24-101 
Intro to Mechanical Engineering, 24- 
121 Thermodynamics 1,24-141 Statics 
and Dynamics, 73-100 Principles of 
Economics, 79-104 Intro to World His­
tory, 85-100 Cognitive Process, and 88- 
103 Decision Making. CMAP tutoring 
takes place Sunday through Thursday 
from 6-9 pm in 220 Smith Hall. Call 
x2150 for more information.
The East End Food Co-op presents 
“Using Herbs” with Spider today at 7 
pm and “Yeast Free Cooking” with 
Majorie Liese next Monday at 6 pm as 
partofits Fall Workshop Series. Cost is 
$25. Call 242-3598 for more informa­
tion.
Shabbat Shalom! For Shabbat plans, 
call Chabad House at 683-7770.
Shabbat at Hillel is held every Friday 
with a happy half hour (hors d’ouevres) 
at 6 pm, services at 6:30 pm, and dinner 
following. RSVP at 621-8875.
Sukkah building with Hillel on Sun­
day at 11 am in the Margaret Morrison 
Courtyard. Barbeque in the new 
Sukkah on Wednesday at 5 pm and 
Havdalah at 7:45, followed by a hay- 
ride. Call Hillel at 621-8875 for reser­
vations.
The Roman Catholic Oratory and 
Tech House invite all students to a 
Bible Study at Tech House every Tues­
day from 5-6 pm. For more information 
or direction, call x4391.
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy
celebrates mass daily on campus at 
12:30 pm in Skibo 39 Monday through 
Friday. Weekend masses are celebrated 
at 7 pm Saturday and 10:30 am Sunday 
in the GSIA main auditorium. For more 
information, call The Oratory at 681- 
3181.
The Rite of Christian Initiation of 
Adults is held on Mondays at 7:30 pm 
at The Oratory, 4040 Bigelow Blvd. 
Anyone wishing to inquire into the 
Roman Catholic faith is welcome to 
attend. For more information, contact 
Bernadette Young at 681-3181.
New Hope Christian Community 
Church invites all students to join 
other young adults in contemporary, 
casual, and uplifting services on Sun­
days at 11 am in the Central Christian 
Church located at the corner of Fifth 
and Dithridge (134 N. Dithridge). For 
information, call 621-6760.
The Church of the Ascension (Epis­
copal) welcomes all students to ser­
vices on Sundays, including Eucharist 
at 8:15 am, a college class at 9:30 am, 
and morning worship at 11 am at the 
church located on the corner of 
Ellsworth and Neville in Oakland. A 
Eucharist is also offered on Wednes­
days at 7 am. For information, call 
campus minister Brian Vanderwel at 
621-4361.
Free Spritual Information Packet
on ECKANKAR, Religion of the Light 
and Sound of God. Call 271-4972.
The Carnegie Mellon Philharmonic 
Orchestra and the CMU Choir
present a joint concert Friday, October 
16 at 8 pm in the Carnegie Music Hall.
CMU Wind Ensemble performs on 
Tuesday at Synod Hall at 8 pm.
AB coffehouse presents singer/ 
songwriter Matthew Puckett Friday at 
9:30 pm in the Ballroom. Call Gleb at 
x2105 for information.
Compline Prayer at the End of the
Day is sung every Sunday night at 9:30 
pm at the Heinz Chapel.
River City Brass Band presents “Viva 
L’ltalia!” October 9 and 10 at the Car­
negie Music Hall at 8 pm. Call 322- 
RCBB for information.
Hewlett Gallery presents a group 
show of Visiting Art Faculty through 
Wednesday. Showing artists are Jes­
sica Gondek, Luis Valdovino, and 
Samuel Walker. For more information, 
call x3618.
Pittsburgh Filmmakers Gallery will 
display the works of James Abbott 
through October 24. For more informa­
tion, call 681-5449.
New Pittsburgh Publications pre­
sents their 10th Anniversary Photo 
Exhibit from Wednesday, October 7 
through November 7 at the shops at 
Station Square. Come vote for your 
favorite photographs in the “Pittsburgh 
Pleasures Events Calendar” Photo Ex­
hibit.
The Pittsburgh Center for the Arts 
will display the works of Michael 
Campbell through Sunday, Octoberll, 
in the Associated artists Gallery; I Want 
to Feel The Way You Do, All The Time 
by Hiro Fukawa through Sunday, Oc­
tober 25, in the National Gallery; Illu­
sion Within the Object by Mary Collins 
through Sunday, October 25, in the 
Special Projects gallery; Recent Works 
on Paper by Lotenery, Odem, Stem, 
and Van Dusen through Sunday, Octo­
ber 25, in the Center Gallery; Rethink­
ing Columbus by the Associated Artists 
of Pittsburgh through Sunday, October 
11, in the Main Gallery; and Still Lifes 
by Barbara Volas through Sunday, 
October 11, in the Center Shop. Call 
361-4235 for information.
Phipps Conservatory presents its 
annual Fall Flower Show entitled “On 
the Horizon” through Sunday, October
11 from 9 am to 5 pm daily. For more 
information, call 622-6915.
The Department of Psychology is
presenting speakers Esther Thelen 
from Indiana University on Tuesday 
and John Eckenrode from Cornell Uni­
versity next Tuesday as part of the 
CMU Colloquiem Series. Lectures are 
held in BH 355 at noon. For more mlor- 
mation, call x2781 or x2683.
How Government Is Contributing 
to Our Impending Economic Crisis 
Robert Chamberlain, author of The 
1990s: Decade of Depression, speaks 
Thursday at 7:30 pm in U. of Pitt's 
Graduate School of Public Health Au­
ditorium Room G23.
The East End Food Co-op presents 
“Acupuncture: IsItforYou?”withDavid 
Mortell as part of its Fall Lecture Se­
ries on Wednesday, October 14 at 7 pm 
free of charge. Call 242-3598 for more 
information.
PittsburghNew Works Festival pre­
sents three one-act plays, “Dates,” “In 
The Subjunctive," and “4 for Cheese,” 
October 8-11. For more information, 
call 363-8750 or 469-9688.
Act One will be hosting an Audience 
Participation Murder Mystery at 
Jacqueline’s Restaurant in Oakland on 
Friday, October 16 at 8 pm. Food, crime, 
and mystery with an elegant backdrop 
of dining. Reservations required. Call 
567-ACT1 or 683-4525.
Jazz at Emmanuel features Pitts­
burgh musicians and vocalist at 
Emmanual Church, 957 W. North Ave. 
in the Northside starting at 5 pm on 
Sunday, October 18. Free to the public. 
Information available at 231-0454.
The Music Department presents 
Christopher Lostanza, celloist, on Tues­
day, October 13 at 8 pm in the Mellon 
Institute Auditorium as part of the 
Gorell Young Artist Series.
The Renaissance and Baroque So­
ciety presents “Spain in the New 
World,” performed by Hesperus this 
Friday and Saturday at 8 pm in Synod 
Hall. Cost is $5 with student ID. For 
information, call 682-7262.
For more information on all sports 
events, call Bruce Gerson, the Sports 
Information Director, at x3087.
The football team takes on Trinity 
University on Saturday at 7:30 pm (CT) 
and hosts University of Chicago here 
next Saturday at 2 pm.
The women’s soccer team hosts
Washington and Jefferson College Tues­
day at 7:30 pm, Slippery Rock Satur­
day at 7:30 pm, and Hiram College next 
Sunday at 1 pm, and competes at 
Waynesburg College next Friday at4:30 
pm.
The men’s soccer team plays at Uni­
versity of Pittsburgh Wednesday at 7:15 
pm, Westminster College on Saturday 
at 11:30 am, and LaRoche College next 
Tuesday at 4 pm. It will host Penn 
State-Behrend College next Saturday 
at 7:30 pm.
Cross country hosts the Pittsburgh 
All-city Meet Saturday. Pitt, Duquesne, 
and Robert Morris College will be at­
tending.
The volleyball team hosts Bethany 
College Thursday at 6 pm. The Alumni 
Match is on Saturday, times to be an­
nounced. Next week, the team will 
travel to Grove City College to take on 
Carlow College Tuesday and competes 
at the Western Morland College Tour­
nament next weekend.
The tennis teams travel to Case West­
ern Reserve University Saturday and 
to Fairmont State College Sunday; 
games at noon.
The swim team will host the alumni 
match next Saturday starting at 10 am.
Send Calendar or Vox Populi submissions to: TheTarran, Attn. Calendar, Box 17, Carnegie Mellon U., Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Or send campus mail to Calendar Editor, TheTanan, 
Skibo Info Desk. You can also drop submis­sions via AppleShare in the drop folders in the Tartan’s server, Skibo zone. Please limit sub­missions to fifty words or less. Deadline is 5 pm the Thursday before the next issue. Place­ment is not guaranteed. Original Vox Populi and Calendar entries cannot be returned.
