Basket Ball 
Saturday Night 
Alleghany vs. Tech.(Uhr (larianr
Basket Ball 
Tonight 
W. & J. vs. Tech.
VOL. XIV. No. 15.CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH. PENNSYLVANIA.JANUARY 21, 1920
Arts Ball, “Frolic des Vanities,” 
to be Mo& Elaborate Ever Held
Ballet Pantomime Used as Central Feature-
More Particulars Next Week.
The “Frolic des Vanities” it is to 
be this year! The name is fantastic 
and suggestive of almost anything in 
the line of imaginative costuming and 
decoration, and it is to be expected 
that this year’s annual Arts Ball will 
surpass anything of former seasons. 
To do this will obviously necessitate 
a great deal of interest and effort, but 
with an enrollment of so many stu­
dents who were here before the war 
and who know from experience what 
effects can be obtained, this should 
not be so difficult. Then again, these 
are more new members of the Divi­
sion than there have ever been be­
fore, and with them to work on the 
'decorations and other effects a great 
deal is possible.
In the case of the balls given before 
the war, decoration and costuming 
were limited to a period or style—in 
the one of 1917-18, economy was the 
watch-word, and the informal "Serv­
ice Revel” was held, without any at­
tempt at decoration or costume other 
than modern. Last year the “Fete 
Fantastique” allowed of a great deal 
of latitude and imagination in design, 
and the present occasion will be much 
the sam esort of an affair.
Although nothing definite has as 
yet been announced as to the schemes 
of the committee, it is said that the 
general plan of decoration of the main 
foyer will be Celtic in nature. The 
vaulted ceiling will be but dimly seen, 
the illumination coming from candel­
abra and being directed downward. 
The hangings on the walls will most 
likely be arranged in a series of five 
panels, and a weird effect of spot­
lighting and suspended decorations is 
hinted at as the motif for the roof.
The festivities of the occasion will 
center about a pantominic dance 
which is now being arranged, and 
which, will prove a novel and surpris­
ing innovation. Of course, the elabo­
rate supper which will be the feature 
of the early morning hours is also 
worthy of a line or two of announce­
ment.
The usual contest for posters ad­
vertising the ball will be conducted 
by the Painting and Decoration 
School, and after the work done on 
those for the. Extravaganza, one 
would expect some very worthwhile 
entries. •
Everyone is urged to design his own costume, and originality is the main 
consideration. Beauty of color and 
line and material should be easily rec­
ognized by every member of the Di­
vision of the Arts, but in order to as­
sist those who cannot express their 
ideas with facility on paper, figures in 
outline will be provided upon which 
each one can sketch his idea for a 
costume. A board will be chosen by 
the ball committee to offer criticism 
and suggestions on designs submitted, 
and this makes it possible for every­
one to carry out or have carried out 
any idea desired.
We have heard several inquiries 
from new students as to whether or 
not a member of the Division may 
bring an outsider of the oposite sex 
as a guest. It seems necessary to re­
iterate the fact that this is purely an 
Arts affair, and only members and 
alumni will be admitted.
I JUNIORS SENIORS ALUMNI 
REMEMBER!
IN order to attend the 
Prom, preliminary tick­
ets must be secured be­
fore the end of this week.
ATTEND TOTHIS AT ONCE 
Committee
LIN LITTLE THEATRE 
LAST FRIDAY
FIRST PERFORMANCE 
“BETTY JUMEL” THURSDAY
Thursday evening, January 22 will 
mark-the premiere of “Betty Jumsl’V the new four act play by Owen S. 
White. The play is a historical melo­
drama concerning the life of Madame 
Jumel, who became the wife of Aaron 
Burr, second vice president of the; 
United States; and it brings gack to 
life many historical characters of note 
who fluttered around this handsome 
woman.The play has been under rehearsal 
for the past five weeks under Mr. Os­
borne’s direction and promises to be 
one of the best drawing cards of 'tliis 
season. One of the main charms of 
the play lies in its quaint old costumes 
and scenery—the old style and charm­
ing manners of the men and women 
with their courtesies and formal bows 
-4-the minuet with old familiar strains 
of music from the spinnet.
All the costumes will be new and 
under Sara Bennett Smith and Helen 
Foust we can. expect to see many 
quaint and lovely creations of the 
Georgian period. Another unique in­
novation is being made in new stage 
lighting. Mr. Osborne has surround­
ed the play wit han excellent cast, 
really some of the best actors and ac­
tresses i ntlie drama department. The 
title role will be taken by Hazel Beck. 
Miss Beck needs no introduction to 
Pittsburgh audiences and is known to 
be a fine and capable actress. Miss 
Beck is given a wonderful chance to 
do some very good work as Madame 
Jumel. Mr. Kenneth Thomson will 
play the leading man and Mr. Bishop 
Dickinson the role of Aaron Burr. 
Another person who needs no advance 
notice is Mr. James Church. Miss 
Moring, who will be remembered for 
her lovely singing in the extravagan­
za, plays the part of Prudence Mor­
rison, the little country beauty.
With this splendid cast, beautiful 
costumes and stage settings sur­
rounding a well written plan we can 
well look forward to- a very enjoyable 
and worthwhile production. The fol­
lowing is the complete cast:
Amelia Vincent...............Cloyde Dalzell
George Varick...........Lawrence Paquin
Marshall Joyce........William R. Dean
Alexander Marble...........William Beyer
Julia Rossiter..........Jane Ziegenfelder
Harry Love Lovejoy...........Ross Hertz
Helen Cruger...............I. D. R. Hazel
Madame Betty Jumel... .Hazel Beck
Jack Oglesby...............John A. Willard
Aaron Burr.................Bishop Dickinson
Richard Trumbull .Kenneth Thomson
“Uncle”.............Nicholas Hans Muller
Prudence Morrison.. .Carolyn Mering
Squire Morrison...............James Church
Pj-ince Jerome Bonaparte ........................................................Arthur Lubin
James ............................Kenneth Wilson
A Minister...........George R. Goodrich
The action takes place in and 
around New York in the latter part 
of 1803.
¦---------D----------
The Ohio Legislature has appro­
priated $94,230 to the Ohio State Uni­
versity to take the place of the cuts 
made last spring in the University 
appropriations for 1919-20.
MUSICAL CLUBS BEGIN
The schedule of concerts for the 
Musical Clubs is practically complete,- 
and the Clubs are ready for their init­
ial appearance before an intelligent 
audience. The first concert is at the 
East Liberty Y. M. C. A., January 24. 
The following week the Clubs appear 
at Wilmerding. In the first week in 
February a short trip will be made 
to Greensburg, and then comes , the 
Erie trip. This will take four days, 
and a good time, is anticipated by the 
Musical Clubs’ men. Later in Febru­
ary comes the Akron-Clevelan.d. trip, 
and there will’ be several good parties 
on this trip, also.
Later in the season, concerts will be 
given at Mt. Washington, Latrobe, 
Allegheny, Wilkinsburg and several 
of the churches around the city.
The Home Concert will be held in 
the Music Hall, on March 12th, and 
the dance will he at the Syria Mosque. 
The dance will be formal as has been 
the custom in former years.
The clubs are in excellent shape, 
and have a very good program pre­
pared. The Glee Club has a very 
good Double Quartette specialty. 
There are four good soloists with the 
Glee Club, and three readers, and it 
is. going to be hard to pick the best 
for the Home Concert. With the ex­
perience gained in the first concerts, 
the Clubs will be able to present the 
best Home Concert that has ever been 
given, and a big turnout from the 
student body is expected.
INLTEHA RSHFHLDYP 
DOODYMYHTCRET “MMB
This week the Plaid tossers will 
have a busy time. On Wednesday 
evening they will confront the W.
J. five and a heated contest will sure­
ly follow. On Saturday evening the 
Allegheny five will play here. Up to 
this time Allegheny has nearly always 
defeated Tech in the cage. We can­
not predict what might happen this 
year.
Both of these games will take place 
in the gym. Attendance has been 
small. Better come this week.- t
ARTS PLEBES ENTERTAIN
STUDENT BODY WITH DANCE
Last Friday night the plebe class 
of the Division of the Arts ran 
dance in honor of the three upper 
classes. The affair which has been 
looked forward to by the plebes for 
several weeks will be looked back 
upon by the entire student body as 
one of the most enjoyable evenings 
of the year.
Ollie Reihl furnished the music for 
the dance which was held in the foyer 
of the Arts building. The plebes cer­
tainly knocked ’em cold, and have the 
heartiest thanks of the student hody 
for the general good time.
Last Friday afternoon’s perform­
ance in the theatre was unprecedent­
ed in two respects. First there were 
no feminine names on the program. 
Second,there was a short concert pre­
sented by the school of music. Fran­
cis Kleyle, Edgar Therane, Adolph 
Herzberg, Joseph Replogle played 
Mozarts’ string quartet in E flat. First 
movement. It was an enjoyable de­
parture from the ordinary program of 
unmitigated drama and we hope the 
two schools will join hands again.
The School of Drama presented a 
one-act play of last year’s birth—an 
episode in two scenes after a story by 
O’Henry. The dramatization was due 
to Owen White and Kenneth Thom­
son and while it was in some respects 
animprovement on the original story 
it was obviously ‘made-over’. It was 
patchey and jerky and though the ma­
terial warranted it there were no dra­
matic moments. The difficulty prob­
ably lay in the shortness of it. There 
was too much meat for 17 minutes. 
The result was hash. Briefly the plot 
wasa s follows: A United States
consul named Thacker is sick of the 
job in Central America and wants to 
get out. Llano Kid happens along 
and somehow it occurs to Thacker to 
have this boy impersonate the lost son 
of a rich man of the town and with 
the kid’s help make a get away of 
some money. The kid agrees and sub­
mits to having the identifying mark 
tattoed on his hand. The curtain de­
scends on the first scene. The next is 
several weeks later. The kid has been 
playing the part but now refuses to 
run away with Thacker who has lost 
his job through negligence. He, Llano 
kid has responded to his pseudo-par­
ents kindness and wants to live 
straight. With the point of his gun 
at Thacker who threatens to expose 
him lie exits with the remark that the 
reason he quit Texas was because he 
had shot a man with just that tatto- 
mark on his hand.
Mi*. Buchanan as Thacker was wob­
bly—and not a bit of a villain. He 
was most decorative, however, espe­
cially at the outset draped as he was 
the couch in white flannels, with 
an orange splotch on the wall above 
him and a wonderful blue backing for 
the window. The setting by the way 
was the best thing about the piece. 
It was in every way artistic and atmo­
spheric. Mr. Gaither was the comedy 
element as Sancho the lazy servant. 
His tricks were carefully conceived, 
too careful in fact. They were stud­
ied. Even as a “spick” Mr. Gaither's 
voice lilted into brogue.
Mr. Lubin played Mendez in a be­
coming makeup which seemed to give 
him confidence and ease. As Llano 
Kid Mr. Church showed his versatil­
ity. His Texas drawl was all right 
for a short space, but if his part had 
been longer the kid certainly would 
have been monotonous.
In general the whole play needs a 
lot of rewriting and elongating and 
several more rehearsals. There 
good stuff there but it doesn’t get 
across. It was a crude performance 
and not worthy of the actors involved 
or the usual standard of the Friday 
performances.
Two performances of The Three of 
Us were given, Thursday and Satur­
day. Next week Thursday the new 
play, “Betty Jumel” makes its first 
bow to the public. Much has been 
said of it already therefore we ex­
pect—much.
----------D----------
MARGARET MORRISON NOTES.
Mrs. Fred McIntosh, formerly Miss 
E. J. Roenigk, instructor in English, 
visited Margaret Morrison last week. 
Miss Mildred Lawrence, a graduate 
of last year’s class also paid a brief 
visit to school.
Miss E. H. Clark, instructor in Phy­
siological Chemistry is ill and will 
probably be out of school for several 
weeks. Dr. Watkins is taking the 
class.
Miss Amos, Dean of Women, at 
Pitt, was'prevented from addressing 
last week’s assembly but will speak 
this week.
IlilllllllllllllllllllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllÌR
Student Council Accomplishes
Much at Regular Meeting
Home Coming Week Proposed to
Take Place at Commencement Time.
Committee Appointed.
PREPARING PLANS FOR THE 
BEST PROM IN HISTORY
Plans are now well along for the 
best Junior Prom that Tech has ever 
had in its history. The committee has 
announced that it will be held in the 
Schenley Hotel ball room on February 
20. The Schenley Hotel was finally 
chosen after going to all the other 
possible places in town, as the best 
all-around proposition that can be ob­
tained to make the affair a real suc­
cess, and it is surely going to be a 
regular “honest-to-goodncss” party, 
that won’t be soon forgotten. There 
will be the best music in town • to 
dance to and the fellow that cannot 
dance will just naturally have to let 
his feet- loose for there will be no 
stopping them. Besides dancing there 
are going to be a number of novel 
little features that the committee is 
saving for a surprise for the ones 
that go. No we can’t tell you what 
they are or you wouldn’t be surprised 
but we can say they are going to like 
this Prom better than any previous 
affair of its kind held by the institu­
tion besides lending a lot of Pep to 
the party. Then too it must not be 
forgotten that there will be a mid­
night supper to keep up the strength 
(¡f. tho' who are not used to staying 
lip so late, for it is planned to run 
thep rogramme thrucompletoly if it 
takes till the sun begins to climb up 
over the hill back of the dorms.
The committee is now selling pre­
liminary tickets, the sale of which 
will cease the end of this week. The 
sale of these preliminary tickets is 
made necessary to bring in some mon­
ey for the committee to defray initial 
expenses such as are necessary for 
programmes, some necessary printing 
and a few incidentals. The price of 
these tickets is two dollars and may 
be purchased by Science men from 
McLain, F. S. Bloom or Pitts. Be­
sides these men there is a represen­
tative in each Junior section that will 
sell you a ticket. Juniors of the Div­
ision of the Arts will be able to se­
cure tickets from Dake, Todd or As- 
pinwall. Hammond and Linn are han­
dling them in Industries. These pre­
liminary tickets must later be ex­
changed and five dollars and fifty 
cents more paid for a ticket that will 
admit you to the Prom. This may 
sound high but remember there has 
been a war and even sugar is worth 
17 cents a pound and you know what 
it is to go without sugar.
---------------------
The regular meeting of the Stu­
dent Council was held on Thursday 
evening January 15, 1920 with nine 
of the members present.
The minutes of the former meeting 
were read and approved and the com­
mittee reports on old business were given.
The invitation committee and the 
ring committee are both busy getting 
information concerning the rings and 
invitations.
The question whether the C. I. T. 
ring should be a degree ring or an 
alumni ring was brought up and dis­
cussed. A motion was made and sec­
onded to make the C. I. T. ring a de­
gree ring. There was then further 
discussion and an amendment was 
proposed, that the C. I. T. ring be 
given to all degree students and to 
all students who have had the work 
equivalent to degree work. The 
amendment was passed.
A report on Student Council dues 
was called for. Margaret Morrison 
Division gave a complete report of 
$24.60 dues paid into the treasury. 
Design School reported $5 received 
from the Junior class. Science and 
Industries School have not yet re­
ported.
A General Assembly of the four 
schools is being planned for the near 
future. A very good program is be­
ing planned and it is hoped that every 
real Techite will come and get the 
spirit of Tech fellowship and coopera­
tion which is needed to bring the
PLAYS IN PREPARATION 
FOR LITTLE THEATRE
ARCHITECTS TO HAVE GET-TOGETHER MEETING
The students and faculty of the 
Architectural School are cordially in­
vited on next Friday night to lay aside 
their instruments of labor, and min­
gle in the cup, which no longer in­
ebriates, but yet may cheer. Local 
talent, which might well be refused 
an audience elsewhere, will here be 
given full scope and powerful protec­
tion, and the beautiful bonds of broth­
erhood be more bindingly bound. The 
present head of the school is anxious 
to meet the scholars more closely 
than has yet been possible, and it is 
hoped a few distinguished visitors 
may also be present.
---------0----------
BLAZE THREATENS ONE 
OF THE NEl
The drama department has boon a 
very busy one lately, and will be still 
busier in the few coming weeks. Many full evening plays are now under di­
rection, plays of noto and literary 
value. Also many one act plays for 
the Friday afternoon performances. 
The following is a list of the many 
plays that will soon be seen in tho 
Little Theatre of tho Division of tho 
A rts:
“Madame Betty Jumol”—Thursday 
and Saturday nights, January 22 and 
24. Friday afternoon, January 28, 
“Tho Bracelet.” Mr. Stovons is pro­
ducing Ibsen’s “Loaguo of Youth” 
with the upperclassmen and with tho 
Plebes “Rainald and tho Rod Wolf” 
by Kenneth Sawyer Goodman and 
Thomas Wood Stovons. This play is 
a huge undertaking as it has a very 
large cast and requires some elaborate 
and massive scenery. Tho drama 
Plebes are planning a big surprise 
with this production. It will bo pre­
sented in a few weeks. Mr. Wallace 
begins rehearsing Pinero’s “Trelaw- 
new of the ‘Wells’ ”, a commodiotta in 
four acts laid in the early sixties. The 
Drama graduates are rehearsing Ib­
sen’s “John Gabriel Bjorkman” under 
Mr. Stevens’ direction. Mr. Osborne 
will start rehearsal of his new play 
as soon as “Betty Jumel” has been 
produced.
For the one act plays—Mr. Wallace 
is rehearsing a new play by I. D. R. 
Hazel—the name of which has not 
yet been decided. James Daly has 
written a fantasy which will be in 
rehearsal soon. Sutro’s delightful 
playlet “A Marriage has been Ar­
ranged...........” under direction of Mr.
Stevens will be seen in two weks.
The dates of presentation of the 
plays mentioned will be announced 
later.
---------D.----------
schools nearer together and promote good school spirit.
A report of the Tech vote on the 
ratification of the peace treaty was given.
A letter, thanking the churches of 
the city that assisted in raising funds 
to send Tech representatives to the 
Des Moines, was read by the presi­
dent and approved by the Council. 
These letters will be sent to all 
churches that participated in raising the money.
A Home-Coming Week was propos­
ed and discussed. The Council felt 
that this plan would be a fine one for 
bringing alumni and students togeth­
er and thus promote a greater spirit 
of interest and relationship between 
the two bodies. The committee ap­
pointed to have initial charge of the 
arrangements for the week is Miss 
Agnes Piper, M. M. D.; Mr. Beatty, 
Science, Chairman pro-tom; Mr. Hed- 
daeus, Industries School; Mr. Greene, Design School.
We hope tomake Home-Coming 
Week one of the «biggest events of 
commencement time, something to 
look forward to and to be remember­
ed. A program will bo planned for 
the entire week, consisting of all kinds 
of social affairs, including house part­
ies, dances, dinners, luncheons, toas, 
etc., also tho program will include dif­
ferent forms of athlotos and othor 
good get-together functions. We will 
hear more about it when tho com- mittoe.I H- ‘frifT ’f i |T ¦ » ______
SOPHS
ARTS PLEBES THE RAZZ
The sophs and plobos of tho Divi­
sion of tho Arts woro at it again last 
woolc. Tho plobos had boon getting 
very frosh after tholr vacation, so tho 
sophs took a fall out of a fow of tho 
cocky birds. Some groat trials woro 
staged in the architectural drafting 
room, and tho miscreants woro duly 
found guilty and punishod by tho sophs.
Tho arts plebes refuse to walk tho 
straight and narrow path for any 
length of time, so tho sophs nro af­
forded a splondid opportunity for 
amusement. Now tho plobos say they 
won’t wear those horrid awful Wind­
sor ties. Tho sophs say they will, so 
wo think they will too. Tho music 
school plobos have not boon attend­
ing school mootings, but a 100 per 
cent turnout is oxpoctod since tho 
tank has boon reviewed as a punish­
ment for this offense,
----------a----------
SENIOR MECHANICALS MAKE 
TEST OF J. 8 L
SUTRO’S "THE BRACELET” LITTLE THEATRE F
A fire starting on the fourth floor 
of dormitory number six last week 
for a time threatened the entire build­
ing. The flames had gained consider­
able headway before they were dis­
covered, and it was only after a hard 
hour’s work by the local fire depart­
ment that they were extinguished.
The occupants of the room in which 
the fire originated were attending 
classes when the blaze was discovered, 
and were unable to save any of then- 
personal property. Rough estimates 
place the loss at several hundred dol­
lars.
The regular Friday afternoon mat­
inees in the Little Theatre at 4 o’clcok 
will be continued for the entire year. 
These matinees, which tre drama de- 
partme nt has been producing, have 
been very enjoyable and form a very 
pleasant ending to the week’s work. 
The matinees are open to the public 
and all are urgently invited to attend.
This week the night class of the 
Drama School will present Alfred 
Sutro’s delightful one act play “The 
Bracelet”, under the direction of Mr. 
Howard Smith. Also the music de- 
partmentwill present “A Few Musical 
Moments”. We all look forward to a 
very delightful hour. The cast for 
“The Bracelet” is;
Harvey Western..............Henry Davis
Judge Banket..................Joseph Butler
Martin............................John Mammon
William...............................John Hopkins
Mrs. Western.................Alyse Tamber
Mrs. Banket.................Margaret Hepp
Miss Farren.................Louise Borland
Smithers..............................Jane Church
Friday afternoon tho senior mech­
anicals, directed by Prof. Trinks and 
Prof. Ester, ably assisted by “Pat” 
Iloban, “Billy Geist” and Mr. Keller, 
run a test in the Jones and Laughlin 
Blooming Mill engine, at the South 
Side plant.
Several days were spent in getting 
every thing ready for the test. Spe­
cial reducing motions for the indica­
tors were necessary. Platforms were 
necessary in some places, but every­
thing was ready when the students 
arrived at 8:30 Friday morning.
The students were assigned to their 
various tasks by Prof. Estep and a 
trial test was run. Of course it was 
a failure as were the first four. When 
it is considered that there were four 
indicators (continuous type), a re­
cording Tachometer, a tacograph, a 
time-indicating device, and the de­
pression of each pass, all to be record­
ed continuously from the time the bil­
let was put on the table until it was 
finished, it is easy to see why some­
body always “slipped”. After a few 
unsuccessful attempts everything went well.
At noon time was taken out for 
lunch and “the bunch” raided a near­
by creamery. We were shown every 
hospitality, one room of the engineer- 
in gdepartment being given over to 
the boys for lunch and dressing room.
After lunch, work was again re­
sumed. The test was completed about 
2:30 p. m. and every one went away 
feeling they had had a wonderful ex­
perience.
Prof. Trinks' good humor and pa­
tience seemed to lend an atmosphere 
of happiness to everything. When 
things went the worst, he was most 
cool. Allsworth and Saylor appeared 
in scarlet ties, as also was Prof. 
Trinks, but even at that they seemed 
to get away with it.
02466338
08728111

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWO.
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB aske vacuum
Published every 
Technology under th
week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
supervision of the Student Activities Board.
Kntet-ed in the póstoffice of Pittsburgh a a second-class matter.
This véar *1 SO
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
5c the copy Canada, $1.76
Business Manager .
Phone Hazel 9422 
Phone Hazel 9425.
THE TARTANWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 1920.
EDITORIAL 
Managing Editor 
L. K. Paquin 
Assistant Managing Editors 
F. 1. Smith 
C. L. Lake
News Editor 
J. T. AmeH 
Associate News Editor 
W. D. Hal)
Athletic Editor
G. R. Goodrich
Assistant Athletic Editor 
Fred L. Knowles
Circulation Manager
H. G. Atchley
School Editors
M. M. C. S.............Margaret J. GriiTen
Science...................J. K. W. Maculpine
Industi-ies............................I. R. Rudisill
Arts..................................T. R. Hinckley
Other Assistants 
L. A. McCardoll 
Arthur Lubin 
J. R. Barrow 
Gertrude Baton 
Margaret Stolzenbaugh 
Adele Gumbert 
Olga Kiefer
BUSINESS STAFF
D. A. Sillers 
N. E. Fox 
Wm, Obenour
Advertising Manager 
M. I. Cohen
TARTAN OFFICE..........................................................................Room 162, Design
Hours—1:00 to 4:00 Wednesdays.
12:00 to 1:00 Thursdays.
The Editor-in-chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the Man­
aging Editor for the make up.
All business communications should be sent to the Business Manager 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported 
at once.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
the signature to be withheld if desired.
All news items must be in the student postoffice, Central Building, before 
4:30 P. M. Fridays.
MISSING
The Autumn Quarter grades have been good news to some, disappoint­
ment for many and a sad story of “F’s” and “It's” for a score. This has re­
moved many faces from our midst which wore cherished as those of friends 
oi* schoolmates and those who upheld the name of Carnegie by their activity 
about school.
Roughly speakinjv, the men who are forced to leace the Institute may be 
divided into four clashes; those who were not fitted by nature with the re- 
uqisites of an engineer, those who are adverse to h.bor of any description to 
make a succes of anythin;;, tho;;e who spend too much time at part-time 
employment, and those who have devoted too much of their time to interests 
outside the proscribed course of study to make a creditable showing in their 
scholastic work.
Of the first class little need be said. The Institute has done them a good 
turn by preventing their dropping into the pitiable class of misfits. The 
hecond class we may consider ourselves well rid of. Tech is no place for 
drones. Neither the Institute nor the Nation can all’ord to waste an educa­
tion on lazy men. The third class we are sorry for but their failure cannot be 
credited to anyone but themselves. The fourth class includes those men of 
ability who devote Loo great u portion of their time to such unselfish pursuits 
as Tech activities, These are men who make Tech more than a factory, men 
who try to do something for Tech, instead of hitting Tech do everything for 
thorn. They have made the mistake of letting their unselfishness get the 
better of their personal interests and good judgment. Such a mistake, in 
the business world would bring much more serious consequences than it does 
at the Institute, and the faculty has never been lenient in cases of this kind.
I »ike the members of the first two tlSSursdsy those who compose this last class 
must accept; the decision for which they themselves are responsible. How­
ever, unlike the misfits and the drones, wo are sorry to see them leavo. There 
are students of higher ’scholastic standing, whom we could better all’ord to 
lose.The majority of students who come to Tech talcing everything, giving 
nothing, in too great. This majority is of the indifferent type. They care 
not for the records sot by Tech in the oolleglte world or show no interest 
whether It be athletic or non-athletic. Ni a result the few who labor untir­
ingly and unceasingly to maintain Tech in n position with the bawl; schools, 
those who sacrifice time and finance, must sufi’or to cover up the indifference 
of the majority.
The stand taken by the faculty head can hardly be supported. That 
•'there are plenty of good athletes or active men in Tech who can keep up 
scholastically also” Is not Just. As an instance, refer to the West Virginia 
game last Saturday night not a full "first-string" team to represent Tech 
against their opponents. Where wore all the good athletes? The coach gets 
the discredit, always. What can he do?
On the sidelines we meet the indifferent who are constantly criticizing, 
The sidelines, of course, are the best places for criticism. Continually, wc 
hear their repeated: “Why’s" and “How's". Why not get oil’ the sidelines 
and get into the game? Help save, at least, the few who must sacrifice and be 
sacrificed to uphold the name of the school that you say you are proud of.
¦---------$----------
COLUMBIA TAKES DRASTIC STEPS
“One college has taken rather drastic steps in an attempt to round out 
the college life of the average undergraduate. The students in Columbia 
College in the City of New York have adopted the Students' Residence Rule 
Petition submitted by the faculty by an overwhelming majority. As sub 
mitted to the students, it contains th efollowing provisions:
“1. Every student who is a candidate for a degree in Columbia College 
must reside in a dormitory or a fraternity house for two years prior to re 
ceiving his degree.
“2. The freshman and Sophomore years are required as the period of 
residence unless the Faculty Board for sufficient reason allows the student 
to choose two other years for residence.
' “3. Students matriculating this year, or having previously matriculated, 
will not be subject to this ruling, but are emphatically urged to promote and 
comply with it.
“4. The College shall make adequate provision, by means of scholar­
ships or special exceptions to the Residence Rule, for a limited number of 
students who would be financially unable to attend college otherwise.
“a—The exceptions to this rule are to be authorized by a Faculty Board 
upon the presentation of satisfactory evidence that the student cannot finan 
cially afford to meet the obliagtions.
It is a well recognized fact that the men living on the campus derive 
more of the benefits from their four years at college than the men who con­
tent themselves with the benefits they are able to gather in the class room, 
alone. No doubt, the Students’ Residence Rule Petition aims to create a 
more distinctly college atmosphere than is possible where comparatively few 
undergraduates live on the campus, and if the rule is put in force it should 
be a.decided benefit; to every undergraduate activity, to the institution and to 
the students themselves.
“The adoption of such a plan as this, is, perhaps, one of the most radical 
stops ever taken by any institution to promote college life and foster spirit, 
and will be watched with intorost by colleges and universities all over the 
country.”
----------$----------
FLASHES
Fraternity Notes are still accepted for publication as well as dates for 
the Calendar.----------$----------
Congratulations to one cheer-leader for last Saturday night’s work 
----------»----------
Has there ever been a Memorial planned for those who made the su­
preme sacrifice in the War?
----------
. Might get a Memorial for those who must lar.v school, too. Few to 
remember—many to forget.
OFFICIAL ANNOUNCEMENT
Student Fees‘Effective September, 1920.
The Carnegie Institute of Technology has been obliged, owing to the 
unprecedented demand for instruction due to the War, to enroll over 4,500 
students for the year 1919-1920, resulting in an overload beyond the capacity 
of the Institution. It has therefore been decided to very materially reduce 
the registration for the next academic year, beginning September, 1920, and 
to concentrate all the resources of the Institute on a smaller number of 
students and to give them more personal attention.
An additional income from endowment or revenue from higher fees will 
be used to adjust,the salaries of the faculty, to acquire new educational equip­
ment and to maintain, and if possible advance, the standards of efficiency 
which have always been the ideal of this institution. With a larger income 
and restricted numbers in each section, it will be possble to retain the abler 
members of the faculty and to increase the effectivness of their teaching by 
relieving them of the strain of large classes and havy schedules.
Fees
The fundd to cover the cost of aneducation at the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology comes from two sources. The income from the endowment 
given by Mr.' Andrew Carnegie provides for approximately three-fourths of 
the total expense. The other fourth is covered by the general fees collected 
from students. The fees charged to students have been placed at the lowest 
possible figure so that even those of limited means can secure an education 
of high grade.¦' GENERAL FEE—The general fee for regular‘day students v/ill be 
$125.00 per year. The funds collected from this source are used for instruc­
tion, supplies needed by teachers, replacement of equipment, and administra­
tion; all of which are part of the operating costs. In addition, there are pro­
vided out of these funds, medical examinations which are re quired of both 
men and women, with free consultation from resident physicians.
STUDENT ACTIVITIES—A fee of $10.00 per year will be collected 
beginning in 1920, from all regular day students. This fund will be distrib­
uted by the student organizations for the maintenance of inter-collegiate 
athletics and other student activities. From this fund provision is also made 
for the care of sick students who require the services of specialists and are 
unable to meet this expense.
FEES FOR SPECIAL STUDENTS—(An extra fee of $50.00 per quarter 
will be collected from day students who take short intensive courses. These 
students demand individual attention, necessitating an expense which can 
only be partially met by these extra fees. The extra charges do not apply 
to students in the summer cources.
FEES FOR NIGHT STUDENTS—The general fees for night students 
who take the régulai- night courses in any of the Divisions of the Institute, 
will be $30.00 for the year.These fees apply to all new students entering the Institute after this 
announcement has been made. The rates now paid by those in attendance 
this year is to continue for them until they complete their courses within the 
prescribed time alloted for the course at the time of their entrance.
*A credit of five dollars a quarter for day students will be extended to 
residents of Pittsburgh who register in consecutive years. For night stu­
dents a credit of five dollars for the year is allowed for registration in con­
secutive years. The term “Resident of Pittsburgh” as here used, is defined to 
mean a student living in Pittsburgh, under or over twenty-one years of age 
whose parent or guardian is a resident of Pittsburgh. A day student over 
twenty-one years of age, whose parent or guardian is NOT a resident of 
Pittsburgh, and who comes to Pittsburgh primarily to attend the Institute- 
CANNOT himself become a resident of Pittsburgh. See Art. XIII( Par. 4 
of the Constitution of Pennsylvania. “For the purpose of voting, no person 
•shall be deemed to have gained a residence by reason of his presence, or lost 
it by reason of his absence while a student of any institution of learning.”
HIGH SCHOOL SENIORS
The girls of the senior classes in 
High Schools of Pittsburgh and sur­
rounding district were entertained on 
last Saturday afternoon in Margaret 
Morrison. The affair was arranged 
by the Collegiate Association to allow 
the seniors in the different high 
(¦schools an opportunity to view, .the 
work being done in the colleges. The 
girls were taken through the various 
departments and the work explained 
as well as the positions and work for 
which graduates of the school were 
trained and had secured. A dancing- 
exhibition was given by each of the 
four classes in M. M. The same pro­
gram as that given at the Guild Ba­
zar was presented.
COLLEGIATE VOTE TAKEN 
FOR TREATY REFERENDUM
The Intercollegiate Treaty Referen­
dum plan was originated, and has 
boon promoted by the Editors of the 
“Daily Prineotonian,” the “Yale 
Nows,” the “Harvard Crimson,", and 
the “Columbia Spectator." Its pur­
pose is to obtain, by means of a vote, 
college sentiment, as regards the 
Treaty. Seven hundred colleges par­
ticipated.
The vote was taken last Wednesday 
at the various assemblies and class 
meetings. The following were the 
propositions and the vote taken by 
faculty and students.
(1) I favor the ratification of tl: 
League and Treaty in any form. Fac­
ulty, 33; students, 139.
2() I am opposed to the ratification 
of the League and Treaty in any 
form. Faculty, 4; students, 123.
(3) I favor the ratification of the 
League and Treaty, but only with the 
Lodge reservations. Faculty, 19; stu­
dents 176.
(4) I favor a compromise between 
the. Lodge and the Democratic reser 
vations in order to facilitate the rati­
fication of the League and Treaty. 
Faculty, 50; students, 422.
Totals: Faculty, 106; students, 860. ----------O----------The student body of Franklin and 
Marshall College, Pa., signed the 
pledge to maintain law and order and 
to support the government at . all 
costs. A copy of the pledge and 
names will be sent to President Wil­
son.* * *
Ohio State has sixty-eight foreign­
ers enrolled as students this year.
|IIIIIIIIIIIIIII!!!IIIIIIIIIII!UIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIM
NOTICE
All members of the Tartan § 
r Staff, Editorial and Business, 1 
are requested to report to the | 
Exhibition Room, Arts Building, 
y next. Sunday at 1:45 p. m. for fi 
jg the Thistle picture.
If your fountain pen is in need of 
repairs, if you need a new, satisfactory 
pen or eversharp pencil, stationery, 
dance programs, favors, special felt 
goods or Tech recognition pins, call 
at SINGER PEN & GIFT SHOP in 
Jenkins Arcade.—Adv.
Lo& and Found
Found—Key marked MAE231 found 
in Science Club Room on January 12. 
Can be secured at Office of Dean of 
Men.
Lost—In Room 209 Science, on Thurs­
day, December 18, 1919, during ex­
aminations, one copy of Corporate 
Organization and Management. Find­
er please leave it at post office. Martin
1. Cohen, Sr. Counsel, Science.
Found — An automobile robe was 
found on Woowlawn Avenue on Tues­
day evening, January 13. Owner 
should call at Mr. Tarbell’s office.
A course in Orientation has been 
introduced at Syracuse University.
^HinHnninsiniJii^flimmiflnniniHimnnranniiTiinHiniffiiiBiiiHimiiiiniininniinnifiinfflmniTiiniminiflnnmiflnwnntimffinnnnniiTHnnimnsiiunOTinninnnffijtmnsnir
See Daily Papers for Information of 
our 25% Clearance Sale.
GOODLOW’S GOOD CLOTHES
Of purest Wool—
Of finest Make—
Durable—
Lasting—
Of latest Styles—
Wonderful values- 
Sure Satisfaction !
Goodlow’s Good Clothes—
Opportunity’s
Offer of Style-perfection—
Dress Up ! Buy Now !
College Men appreciate them— 
Ladies admire Men who wear them— 
Others envy them—
This is your chance—
Here is your selection—
Even now awaiting your visit—
SERVICE FIRST !
507 Market St.,
209-211 Smithfield St.,
932 Liberty Ave.
Akron Reading
Amsterdam Schenectady
Cleveland Syracuse
Milwaukee Terre Haute
Pittsburgh Wilkes-Barre
(3 stores) Youngstown
BATTERY
“Exlde"
SERVICE
IRON CITY ELECTRIC CO.
Broad and Sheridan Ave. 
All Kinds of Batteries 
Repaired and Recharged
MiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiigiiiiiiiiigiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiHint
DO YOU DANCE? j
DANCING LE6SON8 CLA88 AND PRIVATE •
JACQUES' DANCING ACADEMY |
CRAIG AND FORBES BELL PHONE
W
HAT man doesn’t like his pipe? There’s nothing whets 
your smoke desires like seeing a good pipe lying around. 
Because you know that in it is the only real smoke satisfaction. 
Your appetite will be doubly whetted if it is a W D C, because in 
W D C Pipes all the sweetness ^nd mellowness of the genuine 
French briar is brought out by our own special seasoning process. 
T lien, too, W D C Pipes are good to look at. The designs are 
pleasing and workmanship perfect. You’ll agree with us that our 
craftsmen are accomplishing their purpose —to make pipes that 
are without peers in all the world. Ask any good dealer. Be 
sure and look for the Triangle trademark. It’s a guarantee against 
cracking or burning through.
LAR TSPEBN 8c IURR DOYWHCZ
WORLDS LARGEST MAKERS OF PINE PIPES
0002000101024800010001010001020202010200020202010201071102001102

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 1920.THE TARTANPAGE THREE.
DRIVEPULLEY68 R.P.M./OUTLINE OF MAIN DRIVE
BROOKLYN ELEVATOR £- MILLING CO.
Brooklyn» N.Y.
DRIVEN^PULLEY
_—H.R Required 150/ ^^—"7 Belt Speed 2990 F.RM^ ' R.P.M. Drive Pulley 68-----!——Diam. Drive Pulley 14*O"Diam. Driven Pulley 4’ &"
Specified GOODYEAR BELT 30"6Ply
BLUE STREAK CONSTRUCTION
THE TURKISH 
CIGARETTE
PHOTOGRAPHIC CLUB.
A meeting will be held Thursday, 
January 22 at S:00 p. m. in the Union 
to organize a Photographic Club. 
Election of officers* will be held, and 
the general scope of the club’s ac­
tivities will be discussed.
If you are interested in any phase 
of photography, turn out. We need 
you, especially in this first meeting, 
for if the club is to make good, it 
must have, a big start. Men from any 
division are eligible for membership.
You probably felt the want for a 
club when you came to Tech. Having 
done work with the camera, and pos­
sibly being a member of a prep school 
club, you would have more than wel­
comed a society here. This is your 
chance to come out and show who 
you are. It will furnish an incentive 
to do your best, and an opportunity 
to advance in this most delightful art. 
It will be your club, and your duty to 
stand by it from the first tomorrow 
evening.
Fraternity Notes
The Mellon National Bank is 
one of the most thoroughly 
organized, strongest financial 
institutions in the country.
It is in a position to handle 
any account, large or small, 
with care and competency.
OPHELEUM.
During the past week many old 
brothers were guests at the house. 
Bro. M. F. Murphy and Bro. R. W. 
Seidel remaining for an extended 
visit.
After the fraternity basketball 
games on Thursday night an informal 
smoker was tendered to the men of 
the team.
GIRLS’ DORMITORIES.
Miss Julia P. Harrison of the Gen­
eral Science Department is the new 
chaperon of Forbes Hall. The girls 
gave a party in her honor last week.* * *
Miss Grace Ruppert, chaperon of 
Mellon Hall, was accidentally burned 
last week in the laboratory. A bottle 
of acid which Miss Ruppert was car­
rying, broke and the contents burned 
her seriously. She was taken to the 
West Penn Hospital to have the burns 
dressed but is now at Mellon Hall 
again.* * *
An informal dance was held at Mel­
lon Hall Saturday evening.
Pittsburgh, Pa.
WITH OTHER COLLEGES.
The Yale bureau of appointments 
has organized the student drivers’ 
bureau and it will serve as a clearing 
house for men who desire this sort of 
work. Students are available for 
those whose chauffers are temporarily 
away as well as for those who need 
only part-time drivers. The bureau 
will furnish drivers for all makes of 
cars at any time.
In its announcement the bureau 
says nothing about giving a guarantee 
that its star drivers will not elope with 
an heiress who hires their services. 
This innovation ought to be a boon in 
some quarters. For instance, some 
conversation like this may take place 
in a New Haven home:
Mother—Well, girls, you should go 
out today for a ride, but papa has 
taken the chauffeur and the runabout.
Edith—Why not 'phone to the bu­
reau of Appointments and engage one 
of the Yale boys. If we could get one 
who could skate lie might go on the 
ice with us for the red ball is up at 
Lake Whitney.
Mother—Yes, darling, but one does 
not skate with one’s chauffeur, you 
know.
Mabel — But, mother, you do not 
understand. These Yale boys arc real 
students and they are not only good 
drivers but they can play golf and 
skate and dance and everything. Why, 
one is on the football team, or was, 
and another came near making the 
Yale News, lie is so scholarly.
Mother—I never heard of such a 
thing, darling. I'm afraid papa would 
not approve of it.
Edith—Yes, he would, mother, it is 
all right, and I know a boy in college 
whose hair just matches our canary li­
mousine. Please, mother, let us go 
and if he is nice I will bring him 
home to dinner.
Mother—That is proposterous, darl­
ing, it isn’t done. Would you bring 
a boy home that you did not know?
Mabel—She means, mother, that 
she will know him after the ride.
Mother—All right, then, but be sure 
that the driver is safe and does not 
drink. You know one ehauffour wo 
had, the one who broke into the wine 
cellar.
Edith—But Yale boys are difforont, 
mother, and they are not allowed to 
drink.
Mother—Go along, now, and if you 
bring him home to dinner ho won't 
charge so much.
Boll Phono» 578 A. 9169 Schonley 
P. A A. 1092-R 
229 ATWOOD 8TREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Household Goods Movod, Stored, 
Packod and Shipped.Belting Costs—and the G. T. M
An idler has been retired, and $667.54 
saved.
A 30-inch, 6-ply Goodyear Blue Streak
that cost $229.60 less in the first place 
than the belt they had been using has 
given economical service for 27 months 
now on a drive that wore out ordinary 
belts in about- 18 months. So, besides 
the initial saving, the Company credits 
the Goodyear B1 je Streak with an oper­
ating saving of at least $437.94. More­
over, the GoodyeEr Blue Streak has 
caused no trouble and needed no re­
pairs, as against jlenty of both on its 
short-lived predecessor.
The relation of belting to factory effi­
ciency is treated in detail in the Good­
year Mechanical Goods Encyclopedia. 
Students and teachers of engineering 
are invited to write for a copy to the 
Mechanical Goods Department, The 
Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company, 
Akron, Ohio.
A study of plant efficiency makes clear 
the fact that a belt is really a machine 
part. Not only does the quality of the 
belting used determine the effectiveness 
of the drive, but the nature of the 
belt may have a very important action 
on the driving and driven machinery. 
A belt that has to be kept tight, for 
example, is liable to cause overheating 
of the engine bearings.
The economies a good belt can effect 
extend throughout the plant operation, 
and the first step in securing them is to 
make sure that the belt installed is 
specified scientifically to the duty re­
quired of it.
The Brooklyn Elevator & Milling
Company improved its main drive 
and reduced its belting costs by in­
stalling a belt recommended on the 
basis of an expert analysis by the 
G. T. M.—Goodyear Technical Man.
Boll—Schonloy 38D
MISS O’LEARY(Formerly with J. 13. T. Shuman) 
DRY CLEANING—REPAIRING 
Ladies’ and Mon’s Olothos, Oarpots
Work Gimrnntoed nml Turned Out on Short Notloo.
Will call for nil pressing and donning ut Frivt Hounon.
3D33 FORBES STREET (Oakland) 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
THE PLACE WHERE jj
STUDENTS ?!
TAKE THEIR SHOES ffi
Belief ield !;
Shoe Repairing Co. |
Across from the Library
Union Arcade 
Pittsburgh Penn’a
TYPEWRITERS AND 
ADDING MACHINES
All makes sold, rented and 
repaired; allowing rental to ap­
ply on purchase.
Underwoods Our 
Specialty 
Written guarantee with each 
machine.
Victor and Fox agency.
FORT PITT 
TYPEWRITER CO.
428 FOURTH AVENUE 
Near Post Office
Phone Court 866
NEAREST TO TECH
Cor. Craig and Forbes
FRED FARGEL, Proprietor.
Nearest and Best Laundry 
Agency.
OAKLAND 
SAVINGS & TRUST 
COMPANY
Member Federal Reserve System 
Capital - - - $200,000.00 
Surplus and Undivided
Profits - - $260,000.90 
Deposits, Over - $4,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
Mention the TARTAN when buying of these Advertisers._____y?* ?? 9 0 Ec E * f
Physical exercise has been made, 
compulsory at F. & M.. Heretofore, 
no men were required to do any phys­
ical exercise, but now Freshmen and 
Sophomores are required and upper 
classmen strongly urged to take part 
in some form of exercise.* * *
The old custom of distinctive dress 
for the Seniors of Indiana University 
will be revived this year.+ * *
A good many University of Kansas 
men have turned out to mine coal to 
help relieve the local shortage. Cred­
it in studies is given for this work.* * *
In pursuance of its policy of in­
creasing its staff of athletic coaches 
the University of Colorado, through 
the chairman of the Athletic Board, 
Fred G. Folson, is angling for Fred 
Dawson, formerly coach of football, 
baseball and basketball at Columbia, 
to direct these sports for Colorado.* * *
If all goes well a combined Harvard 
and Yale track team will meet Oxford 
and Cambridge in England next uly. 
The American college teams were ap­
proached early this month, and a de­
cision, which is expected to be favor­
able to accepting the invitation, will 
be made some time this week. With 
the international meet a reality, the 
American teams will leave about the 
middle of June for England and the 
teams will compete during the second 
or third week in July.
Harvard has already considered the 
invitation and is understood to be 
favorable toward its acceptance. W.
F. Garcelon, former graduate manag­
er of athletics at Harvard, has al­
ready conferred with the Yale author­
ities, and there appears to be no rea­
son to believe that the proposition 
meets opposition at New Haven.
Grace Church
(Reformed)RAYARD and DITH RIDGE STREET« FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister. 8ERVICE8:Sunday School—9:45 A. M.Morning Worship—11 A.Social hour and Luncficon for stu­
dents, 15c, at 6 o'clock.
Christian Endeavor—7 P. M. 
Popular Evening Services at 7:45. 
Sermon for Head and Heart.
A cordial wclcomc to all Students.
All the world 
loves a lover —
And all discriminating 
lovers of cigarettes love 
Murads—
Because Murads are pure Turk­
ish, the world’s most famous tobacco 
for cigarettes.
Ar.cl the Fame of Murads grows 
and grows and grows—they are 1 00 
per cent Turkish, and they are 100 
per cent popular with connoisseurs 
everywhere.
It is true that “ordinary” 
cigarettes cost a trifle less.
BELLEFIELD PRE8BYTERIAN ! CHURCH
Bellefleld and Fifth Avenues
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D. D., * Minister. j
Preaching Services 11 and 8. !
Sunday school at 10.Christian Endeavor at 7. !We want the Tech boys to at- • tend our services and learn to ] know us as the congregation of « •'Friendly People,” A hearty ’ welcome awaits you.
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
DR. HUGH B. SPEER, Pastor 
Shady and Northumberland Avenues 
Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M. Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M. and 8:00 P. M.Young People’s Service, 7:00 P. M. Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages. A cordial welcome to all.Judge for yourself—!
mmsr -, wbm
A8CEN8ION EPI8COPAL CHURCH Ellsworth Avenue and Neville Street DR. WYATT BROWN, Rector DR. R088 R. CALVIN, Assistant.Sunday Servloea, 8:00 A. M., 11:00 A. M, and 8:00 P. M.College Men’s Bible Class at 10:00, l«d by Dr. Calvin.All Rtudents Gonulnoly Walcome.
A WELCOME TO ALL
Maferscfth¿Hidies¿Gnuk%Á¿h 
and E^pUanQ^antlesin ÜwïïbrldOAKLAND 
COMMUNITY 
HOUSE
ST. PAUL’S CATHEDRAL 
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.Masses: 6:30, 8:00, 9:00, 10:00 and11:00 A. M. on Sundays and Holy Days.Vespers on Sunday« at 7:30 P. M. P&w 68, Middle Aisle, for T©ch 8tu- OPEN SEVEN DAYS A WEEK. denU.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE flÖÜÜ.THE TARTANWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 1920.
-, W'"
chemist who discovered oxygen in 
1774, which is located on the banks of 
the Susquehanna River at Northum­
berland, Pa., was purchased recently 
by graduate chemists of the Pennsyl­
vania State College, who plan to move 
it to the campus and make it a lasting 
memorial to the great chemist.
Upon learning that the Priestley 
homestead, which was built in 1794- 
96, was to be put up at public auction, 
the Penn State chemists sent as their 
representative to the sale Dr. G. G. 
Pond, dean of the School of Natural 
Science at the College. He was suc­
cessful in making the purchase, and 
thereby was able to announce that the 
old historic mansion would be pre­
served in its original lines.
WITH OTHER COLLEGES.
“Bill” McAvoy, former gridiron 
star at Lafayette, has recently re­
turned to that,school to take up his 
duties as coach of the Lafayette quin­
tet, which so far during the . present 
season has been minus a coach. Mc­
Avoy was one of-the best fullbacks 
and all-around athletes that Lafayette 
ever had. During the three years, 
1905-6-7, he not only had an evvied 
local reputation on the gridiron but 
was rated as the chosen' full back on 
the All-American teams of those 
years. After leaving college he play­
ed professional baseball and coached 
at Delaware State College for a num­
ber of years.
PENN AND * •‘•K8TOWN AVENUES
lur For mother,
Ur father, the boys 
\f and girls. It’s 
" the sweet for all 
asses—at work or i 
Play. A
Beginning with Tuesday's issue of 
the Cornell Daily Sun, there is being 
printed a series of twelve articles 
written by representative members of 
the Cornell faculty concerning the 
League of Nations. The first two ar­
ticles were written by President 
Hcburman and Dean Frank Thilly. 
The main purpose of these discussions 
is to promote student interest in the 
straw vote which will be taken on 
January l:; by the Cornell students.I): IH *
Boxing seems to be making a place 
•for itself in college sports as Cornell 
and other colleges are about to take 
it as a minor sport. Secretary of War 
Baker and military officers in speak­
ing at Cornell, strongly urged the 
taking up of the sport generally.* ? ?
Earl Kunkle, of Lafayette, the win­
ner of the Middle Atlantic States In­
tercollegiate Championship in the 
broad jump and the 220-yard dash, 
was severely injured several days ago 
when he slipped and fell on an icy 
pavement.* # >if
Massachusetts Institute of Technol­
ogy has announced the schedule for 
the swimming season. It includes, 
Brown, Pennsylvania, Amherst, Wes­
leyan, Yale, Harvard, Naval Academy, 
New England Intercollegiates and 
National I ntcrcollegiates.* * f *
The original home and laboratory 
of Dr. Joseph Priestley, the famous
The Aero Clubs of Columbia, Har­
vard and Yale are making plans for a 
three-ocrnered airplane race next spring.? ? *
Nearly 400 students of the Univer­
sity of Nebraska have recently return­
ed to their studies after working in 
the mines of Nebraska and neighbor- 
states to help relieve the coal famine. 
Support was pledged to the govern­
ment at a mass meeting, and resolu­
tions were adopted, condemning those 
responsible for conditions as they 
were at the time of greatest need. 
Three co-eds helped with the cooking 
for the men while they were at work 
in the coal fields.* * *
The Harvard gridiron team which 
defeated Oregon at the Tournament 
of Roses, on New Year’s Day, return­
ed to South Station, Boston, Tuesday 
night and were tendered a lively re­
ception by the student body.
f8.50 to $16.60
CUT DOWN YOUR 8HOE EXPEN8E by buying better ohoen. You will find them far cheaper to wear than uhoeo which are not oo high In quality.
Our new modelo for FALL and WINTER are now In, and they are full of snap—Junt nultable for the collctfle man.
.öcy^i^ö/^ci/a/nyi5/ö^fi3/e/ö/a/2/a/ö^yt?/i5/a/a/8 TRANSITS AND LEVELSin ALL SUPPLIES FOR THEDRAFTING ROOM
W When you’re 
f nervous or tired 
see how it 
refreshesl
SKIB0 INN
EATS
Cigars and Candy
The Flavor 
s. Lasts
¡a
¦fj Engineers’ Equipment, Inotru- j] mentß of Prccißion, Blue Print jj] and Brown Print Papero and § Cloths.% B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
| 126 SIXTH 8TREET
Ji/SMiilMSiDlMS/S/SiSMS/SMSMS/S/S/SMS/B
Lehigh University has been honored 
in the appointment of Dr. Benjamin 
L. Miller, head of the department of 
geology, as Cooperating Geologist to 
the State Geologist of Pennsylvania. 
Dr. Miller has recently become a 
member of the Editorial Staff of the 
Engineering and Mining Journal as 
Consulting Epecial Editor.
HELLO, BILL, MEET ME AT THE
OAKLAND KITCHEN
A meeting of the teachers and in­
structors of the Free Evening School 
conducted by the Bethlehem Steel 
Company was held on Wednesday af­
ternoon, at the offices of the plant. 
N. Mathag, '20, gave a short address 
which, was followed by an inspection 
trip through the Steel Works.
116 OAKLAND AVENUE
Althle
WRiflLEVSJ.&B8
In discussing the passing of the In­
tercollegiate Soccer Championship 
from Penn to Swarthmore during the 
season just ended and in commenting 
upon the various teams in the league 
Douglas Stewart, president of the 
Football Association of eastern Penn­
sylvania, coach at Penn, and a promi­
nent Philadelphia lawyer, pays a time­
ly tribute to “Whitey” Lewis, in an 
article written just before Christmas 
for the Philadelphia Evening Bulletin.
Concerning the Lehigh team he 
¡says: The war conditions had a good 
ideal to do with the comparatively 
poor quality of other teams; Lehigh 
did not decide to enter the competi­
tion until the last moment owning to 
difficulties in getting a team together, 
but was ultimately able through the 
elForts of “Whitey” Lewis to organize 
a team.
Lewis sprained his ankle in one of 
the earlier games which left him out 
of the league competition. This made 
a great deal of difference to Lehigh, 
as he is undoubtedly the best player 
on the team.
the ghAnhv. Tai
11 E.DtlKABO"- ihr
Put pep into your pencil work. Use a 
smooth, long-lasting responsive lead 
that eases and quicken:; your pencil tasks 
and makes them more pleasurable —
•lock licks, I
somew 
° NoolUer 
... nilillV "nCl
Every ù>»c 1 . 1 
„Ut Faù»uw " ,
SeU»»«*1 St««
ng, uti8WervU'b 
Tbc V'»»»»1' 1balance
«kilUnUy l.l«nj 
,v\»v Fni'in«* «•
one for every needor preference - -
"the 7nasler drawingpencil'
SOLD HY GOOD STATIONERS—AT SCHOOL AND JN 'TOWN
Penn is to announce its 1020 foot­
ball tutor today. Bob Folwell will be 
opposed for the job by Buck Whar­
ton.
The University of Pennsylvania has 
just-published Volume VI of its series 
of “University Lectures”. Two Le­
high men are represented in the ser­
ies. Eric Doolittle, C. E., '91, Pro­
fessor of Astronomy in the University 
of Pennsylvania, contributes a lec­
ture, “Our Stellar Universe: Iiow We 
Learn of ts Mass, Extent and Slow 
Development.” C. E. Clewell, E. E., 
'05, Assistant Professor of Electrical 
Engineering in the Universiyt of 
Pennsylvania, is the author of “Some 
Relations of Physical Environment to 
the Management of the War Indus­
tries.”
STUDENTS WELCOME
Fred Suddaby’s Cafeteria
BUREAU OF MINES BUILDING
11 A. M. to 2 P. M. Every School Dav
GREAT EATS AT 
THE SCHENLEY LUNCH 
FORBES AND CRAIG STREETS
FRED SUDDABY, Proprietor
J. T. Morris, a former student at 
Lehigh, has recently become Vice- 
President and General Manager of 
the Morris Smokeless Coal Company. 
This company owns a large acreage 
of lii«rh grade Pocohontas coal in 
West Virginia.* * *
The trustees of Wabash College 
have started a new tradition on the 
campus by meeting in a joint session 
with the student council; ^Subjects of 
college importance were discussed by 
both trustees and student representa­
tives. The intention of the meeting 
was to foster good will and mutual 
aid between the students and faculty.
Formerly of William Penn and Fort Pitt Hotel
I AM SERVING
Clean, Wholesome and Home Cooked Dinner for 35c
--------------At--------------
STANDARD RESTAURANT 
3621 FIFTH AVENUE NEAR ATWOOD STREET
—a gain of 21 per clock-tick 
since 1917
F
ATIMA’S big gains.are'mostly among men 
who like the Turkish tobacco tis*e but who 
tire of the over-richness of too much Turkish.
One way of proving this is to point to the 
fashionable clubs and hotels of the country.
Until a year or so ago these places had little 
call for any init 'straight Turkish'cigarettes.
Today at nearly all of them, Kast and West, 
Fatihia is a leader at many of them, in fact, the 
largest seller.
It you want fust. enough Turkish, try 1* atimas.
HiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiuiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiDiiiiiiiDiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiniuiiiciiiiuiiiuiiniiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiinuiiisiiiiiiiBiiiuiiiiiiinniiiiiuuiiiiiuiiuniuiiuuiiiiiiiiiiniisiiiiiiiiiiims 
OPEN DAY AND NIGHT PARK 411-R
EAT AT THE
SAVOY RESTAURANT
SPECIAL STUDENT’S LUNCH
3807 FIFTH AVE.
BlfllUllllllMUIlUlllUlMIUMIUIMIlllllllMllllllUllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllUlllllllMlllllUBlllllllllllllllllllllllliaillllinilllllliailllllUlHUUlllllllilUllllHllllUlllllllHllllUinilllllUllllIiHllHUlMUUUnUU
Seventy-three colleges and univer­
sities in the United States and Can­
ada sent delegates to the inter-colle- 
giate memorial association held at 
the College* b,f the City of New York 
during the CJiristmas vacation.
Dartmouth is building a new $150,-
000 swimming pool. •
4 * ‘ .The Washington ./^¡‘hiversity Eng­lish department quirked the Freshmen 
on the “College” alulfti mater, and in­
dicted a suitable punishment on all 
those who did not know the song.
Oberlin expects to spend during the 
next two years $1,000,000 for new 
buildings.* * *
fP>e thirty-fourth annual meeting 
¡of the American Historical Associa­
tion was held at Reserve, Dec. 29-31.
«g I. . •-•-V I )SMss
IBS;
NOTI:: Fatima contains mon' Turkish than any 
other Turkish Blend cigarette.
