(The Camelie <Taiimi
Men must be at liberty to 
say in print whatever they 
have a mind to say, pro­
vided it wrongs no one.
—CHARLES A. DANA
VOL. 27, No. 6CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1932
Chapel Service To Be 
Held Today; Dr. A. SI. 
Robinson Will Speak
lusical Program Given 
By Trio On Violin, 
Organ and Cello
R.O.T.C. COLONEL
JR.B AKER IN CHARGE 
OF CHAPEL PROGRAM
Seats Will Be Reserved 
For Class Honorary 
Members
By EDMUND J. MCCORMICK
A. R. Robinson will address 
"udent body at tlie second 
e the year to be held today 
( the Little Theater, Col- 
e Arts. Dr. Robinson is 
the Sixth United Pres- 
srch, located on North 
nue in the city.
Dr. Robinson’s first 
irnegie, for he lias 
rdent body in pre- 
has talcen an ac- 
'.udent affairs at
am will be pre- mposed of Jean- . violin; Gladys d Matthew Frey, ¦¡liel and Miss s in the Depart- Frey is a Car- a member of aker will pre­
vail representa- < at chapel, cam- is year, are en- 
with Dr. Baker n tlie programs, colleges, chapel arnegie is non-
• ten years has ture at Carne- the programs es and at gen- tlie students ¦ to hear on by the out- day./ved for Mortar ¦women’s honor- omore class wo- Dragon, senior -rary; Delta Skull, i’s honorary; and •e class men’s lion-
ramatisi 
Tomorrow
lilton, distinguished ., playwright, author ritative books on the and the drama, and ie Pulitzer Prize Play ture in the Little sorrow afternoon at nund Rostand and the ich Drama.” Tickets- lired.ugh Mr. Hamilton is alter Hampden who is "Cyrano de Bergerac” li next week, his ad-10 sense a sales talk. Iton, who is recognized the foremost American on the drama, is equal-11 as a writer and a lec- first play was producedray when he was only years old. Since then d wide associations not the world of drama, but motion pictures. Among r students at Columbia jl of the most successful playwrights of the pres-
D0NALD M. McCLAIN 
Donald M. McClain, who was re­cently chosen as student com­mander of the R. 0. T. C. at Car­negie.
Cross Country 
Team Guests 
At Dance Sat.
Doc Carter’s Orchestra 
Will Play Sat. Night 
In Thistle Hall
New Cadet 
Officers For 
Year Chosen
Honorary Cadet Girls 
Receive Commissions 
At Military Ball 
DONALD McCLAIN IS 
LOCAL COMMANDER
Something new in the line of Sat­urday evening dances will be held next Saturday evening in Thistle Hall when a dance will be given in honor of the Varsity Cross Country Squad. This is the first time in several years that the hill and 
dalers have been honored at such an affair.Members of the Westminster Cross Country team, who will face the Carnegie boys next Saturday morning on the Schenley Park cin­der path, will be invited to attend the dance.
Doc Carter and his orchestra will furnish the music for this sixth Saturday evening dance of the present school year. Doc Carter comes to the Carnegie campus from central Ohio Avliere he has played for many dances in that dis­trict. He has also played in Can­ada, at various night clubs in the Pittsburgh district, and over radio station WCAE in Pittsburgh.The price of admission will be the usual .111.00 a couple and danc­ing will start at 9 o’clock.
Scabbard And BladeToMake 
Call For Members On 
Night Of Ball
By DUDLEY PENDLETON
Donald Maxwell McClain, a senior in the Department of Works Management, was appointed regi­mental commander of the Carnegie unit of the, Reserve Officers Train­ing Corps. McClain is a member of the Alpha Tau Omega social fraternity and a member of the Scabbard and Blade. William Haldane Council, a member of the Delta Upsilon fraternity and a Scabbard and Blade, will be the adjutant to the commander.Arne Hedstrom was appointed commander of the first battalion and Robert Alden Hutchinson com­mander of the second battalion. Hedstrom is a senior in the De­partment of Metallurgical En­gineering, while Hutchinson is a senior in the Department of Com- lhercial Engineering.Adjutants to the ,two battalions are Ivan M. Gazdik, a senior in the Department of Physics, and Law­rence F. Dickson, Department of Mechanical Engineering and member of Scabbard and Blade.Joseph C. Bronson is the Captain Supply Officer and will be as­sisted by 1st Lt. Carl F. Hanson and 1st Lt. John E. Soyring.Other major appointments were: Company A, Robert E. Robinson, captain and Joseph Adams, second in command; Company B, AldenB. Rochford, captain and Harry A. Metzler, second in command; Com­pany C, I-Iarold F. Neff, captain and Daniel E. Lehane Jr., second in command; Company D, Alfred J. Eichenlaub, captain and DonaldH. Fischer, second in command; Company E, Lawrence E. Dempsey, captain and George A. Deemer, second in command; Company F, Robert C. Kelley, captain and Paul W. Koenemund, second in com­mand.
I Honorary Cadet officers were selected by the junior and senior officers from among the girls of Margaret Morrison and the College of Fine Arts as follows: Margaret Morrison: Ruth E. Nye, 1st, Bat­talion major; Becky E. Linn, 2nd. Battalion major; Katherine L. Jessop, captain Company A; Ann R. Warden, captain Company B;(Continued on Page Three)
A. Cabinet 
Have Outing
access of last year’s trip i Forest to discuss student ; of the coming year has the Y. M. C. A. cabinet to o again make the trip this Juring this year’s meeting, will be held over the week November 5, the work and \s confronting it on the e campus for the remainder •ear will be discussed, abinet is sending radios to as of sick students in the r. The addition of two 
ios to the old ones as- y sick student of radio nent if he is sent to the
at D. Schaeffer, instruc- 3 Department of Works ut has been added to the ‘t committee. Professor mnison of the Depart- jctrical Engineering is Professor Clifford G. partment of Building vice chairman, Pro- Kirk-Patriclc, Depart- h, secretary; and Mr. dorf, Department of lation, treasurer.
Kilties Will Hold 
Dance Tomorrow
The Kiltie Band will sponsor a tea dance tomorrow afternoon from 4 to 6 o’clock in Thistle Hall. Adniission will be 25 cents a per­son. The Kilties promise to in­troduce an orchestra that, while it •is new to the campus, has been popular at tea dances in Pitts­burgh.
Never before has the Kiltie Band appealed to the day school for sup­port. Each year the night school has been generously replacing the band’s worn equipment. Now the Kilties need funds to buy new belt buckles and shawl brooches,’ and they are calling on the student body, whose teams and spirit they have been boosting, to turn ' out for their dance tomorrow after­noon.The band has been busy prac­ticing twice a week, and it is re­ported that they are planning a big surprise stunt for the Pitt- Carnegie game.
Dr. Baker Will Speak 
For Hoover Over KDKA
Dr. Thomas S. Baker, president of Carnegie, will speak in behalf of tlie candidacy of President Hoover over Station KDKA on Thursday evening from 6:30 to 6:45.The Hoover Club of Allegheny County is sponsoring the program. Dr. Baker's topic in which he gives his own personal reasons for vot­ing for Hoover is entitled, “Why I Shall Vote for Hoover.”In addition to his broadcast on Thursday, Dr. Baker is scheduled to talk Sunday, November 13, at 
4:30 over WCAE. At this time he will speak in behalf of the Welfare Fund of Allegheny County.
Welfare Drive 
Will Be Held 
Nov. 9 To 23
STAFF MEETS
t meeting of the of the Tartan will ursday, November 3 in tlie Tartan office, jf the staff are ur- fted to be there
W.A.A. Fund Started 
For Ground Purchase
Student Council lias set aside $700 out of the $1,000 surplus of the Women’s Athletic Association treasury to form the basis of a fund which is to be used for the purchasing of the land and the building of a cabin for the associa­tion. The cabin will contain sleep­ing and cooking equipment. W.A. A. plans to use it for their week-end parties and to rent it to other campus organizations. Al­though nothing definite has been determined in regards to the land, a committee lias been looking at the Cariiegio Farm at Freeport, Pennsylvania. Gloria Kloos is head of the committee for the cabin plans.
Phi. Mu Alpha Holds 
Smoker November 3
On Thursday evening of this week a smoker and get together will be held by Phi Mu Alpha. The honorary will be guests of Alpha Tau Omega house, 61S Clyde street. A very extensive program is out­lined for the evening.
Farce, Comedy, 
Tragedy Comes 
To Union Friday
By ROY MINET
A human comedy of back-stage life, a lively farce, and a study of a German woman left stranded in London at the outbreak of the World’s War will provide another afternoon of brisk entertainment in one-act play form in the Union’s Studio Theater next Friday at 3:30.
These popular matinees promise to tax the seating capacity of the Union. So large was the audience at the program presented on the afternoon of October 21, that many of the late-comers were obliged to stand until the end of the first play when seats could be provided.It is not only the students, and faculty members who have shown such a great interest in these in­timate performances. Many clubs and civic organizations have re­sponded to the opportunity offered, of enjoying groups of one-act plays capably produced, and are planning matinee parties for a number of the remaining fourteen programs at present scheduled.Professor Chester Wallace is su­pervising the student directors who are preparing Friday’s entertain­ment. Robert Stanton Gill is pre­senting the war drama with Jean A. Dahl and William G. Beal. Irene J. Cowan is directing Janet W. Feather, Jane IC. Wittmer, Marie E. Noir, William E. Roos, and Harry S. Schofield in the com­edy offering. Herman Live- right is producing the farce played by Audrey L. Kelley, John G. Daw­son, and Walter H. Derdeyn.
Student Council Directs 
Local Charity Drive 
On Campus
The annual Welfare Drive, under 
the direction of the Student Coun­
cil, which will begin on November 
9 and will continue through No­
vember 23, is Carnegie’s contribu­tion in the national movement to build up- a relief fund to aid the unemployed and relief organiza­tions in Allegheny County.It has been the custom in for­mer years for the student body of Carnegie to contribute to a welfare fund. In accordance with this cus­tom, each student .has been asked to donate a dollar to the fund this year. If, in any case, ¿he student is unable to contribute the dollar that is required, the sponsors of the drive want to emphasize that any suitable contribution will be accepted.A card bearing the student’s name will'be in the hands of a class representative in his section. If the student contributes imme­diately, he will be given a receipt for the amount of the contribution. Those who wish to pledge their support to the drive may do so by signing their card and signifying the amount of the donation. These pledges will then bë collected at a later date.The drive will be carried on in the four collegës' by a committee of five student representatives un­der the general direction of John P. Iiiltz ’34: This committee in­cludes Warren Ailes ’34, in the College of Engineering; Edmund J. McCormick ’34, College of- In­dustries; James Latta ’36, Engi­neering and Industries Freshmen; Rosemary Saxton ’34, College of Fine Arts; and Jean Ritzel ’34, 
Margaret Morrison.The money collected will be used by over seventy different agencies in the Pittsburgh district, and will go toward the aid of the needy in the surrounding districts. As the local Y. M. and Y. W. C. A. are included in these various or­ganizations and as these groups 
play a large part in meeting the requirements of needy on the cam­pus and in the immediate vicinity, it is hoped that every Carnegie student will do his or her part in making the drive a financial suc­
cess.
New Rules 
Passed For 
Fall Rushing
Periods Of Contacting 
And Open Rushing 
Are Feature
ONE PAID ORCHESTRA 
DANCE PERMITTED
Student Directory Is 
On Sale This Week
The Carnegie Student Di­rectory will be off tne press and on sale the latter part of this week. Copies may be obtained for the nominal sum of fifty cents at the Y. M. C. A. office and from the agents on the campus.Special features of this year’s directory are the novel cover de­sign and the fact that it is dedi­cated to Rollin V. Davis, Y. M. C.A. secretary.Information included in the di­rectory are the student’s name, his home address, his local ad­dress, his telephone number, class, 
course, and a membership list of the fraternities, lionoraries, Stu­dent Council, and School Senates.Miss Dolly Allison ’33 is manag­ing editor of the publication.
CommitteePlansEducational 
Program For Freshmen 
' In All Colleges
By ANTHONY J. CACCHIONEWith the official adoption of the 
rushing rules by the Interfraternityi Council last Saturday there came into existence a plan which is be­lieved very simple in operation and which will permit the freshmen to become better acquainted with a larger number of fraternity men. The plan consists of a two. day contacting period and a nine day open rushing period.By eliminating the Saturday morning dash across the dormitory lawn, the Council sought to avoid the usual confusion which occurred in the past years. According to the rushing rules, a period of con­tacting will commence ..on Wednes­day, November 30, at 4:20 in the afternoon, during which time the fraternity men may meet rushees and arrange dates for the open rushing period. It is hoped that there will be enough time in the two days for the fraternity men to contact the rushees more than once and to see that the dates are kept. Rushing, however, during 
this period will be absolutely for­bidden.Following the contact period there will be a short period of si­lence when no contacting or rush­ing can be' done. Open rushing will begin on Friday, December 2, at 8:30 in the morning and will terminate on Sunday morning, De­cember 11, at 1:00 a. m.In consideration of the existing economic conditions, the Council has adopted the resolution that the number of social events during open rushing be limited to one paid orchestra dance. Fraternities will be allowed to hold smokers or radio dances over the two weelc- ¦ends.Bidding will be permitted any time after the beginning of open rushing season. The rushees will signify their acceptance of bids by presenting themselves at the houses of their Choice on Sunday morning, December 11, at 10:00a. m.Feeling the need of a program of orientation for the freshmen, the Council has appoiiited a Publicity Committee which will be responsi­ble for acquainting the freshmen with the idea of a well balanced 
distribution of dates during open rushing season. The following men were appointed to the com­mittee: Robert E. Robinson, chair­man; John W. Ladd, and ChesterC. Williamson.At a meeting of the Council next Saturday, the rushing rules adopt­ed will be interpreted. At this meeting, each house will be re­quired to place a bond of $50 with the treasurer of the Council,, which 
will be forfeited in case of any in­fraction of the rushing rules.
Printing Department 
Equipment Increased
Recent donations have consider­ably augmented the equipment of the Department of Printing. Twen­ty-nine half-tone line engravings have been received rrom Mr. Jo­seph Kappel of the E. T. Cowan 
Co. of New York.
. A valuable amount of photo-en­
graving materials has been donat­ed by the Robert Rawsthorne Co. of Pittsburgh. The gift includes twenty-five proportional and twen­ty-five standard scales and a num­ber of booklets on “The Art of Photo-Engraving.”
The Herbiclc and Held Printing Co. of Pittsburgh has given a package of cuts for class use. A quantity of paper for pressroom purposes was received from the Brown Co. of New York.
W. J. Burns Elected 
Pres. Of Senior Class
William J. Burns ’33, Department of Mechanical Engineering, was elected president of the senior class in the College of Engineer­ing, and Thomas Bernardi ’36, De­partment of Painting and Decorat­ing, was chosen for the presidency of tlie freshman class in the Col­lege of Fine Arts in the special elections held last Tuesday. Ford- am B. McConnel was named to fill the position of Vice-president of the senior class in the College of En­gineering, the position left vacant by the election of Burns.The election in the College of Engineering was necessitated by the ineligibilty of James E. Stahl, former president of the class; while the election of Bernardi re­sulted after a tie in the regular freshman elections.
CAMPUS PERSONALITIES
By STANTONDr. 'Charles Watkins, assistant to President Baker, was born at Morristown, Tennessee. After at­tending public school there, he went to Washington and Lee Uni­versity, where he received his A.B. degree. At this time he became a member of Beta Tlieta Pi Social Fraternity and of two lionoraries, Gamma Alpha 
and Phi Beta 
Kappa. After 
he had obtain­
ed his M. S. 
degree at 
Van d e rbilt 
University, he 
began teach­
ing in Bran­
ham and 
Hughes 
School for 
yboys.
Dr. Watkins was prepared . to accept aDr. C. Watkins commercial po­
sition when he was asked to re­turn to his alma mater to teach
Hoover Wins Carnegie 
Straw Vote; Is Choice 
Of 31 Other Colleges
Awarded 28,289 Votes 
By Students From 
All Colleges 
ROOSEVELT CARRIES 
SOUTHERN STATES
Norman Thomas Is Chosen 
By Five Institutions OC 
Varied Location
The students in the majority of 
forty-seven colleges picked Her­
bert Hoover as their choice for the 
next president of the United 
States in straw votes conducted in 
the respective, colleges. Herbert 
Hoover carried thirty-one schools 
of which one was Carnegie, Roose­
velt eleven and Thomas five. In 
the final tabulations made by the 
Princetonian, Princeton University 
newspaper, Hoover received 29,289 
votes, Roosevelt 18,212, Thomas 
10,870 and William Foster 715.
The analysis of the total vote 
shows that Hoover led the East­
ern, Middle Western, and Far 
Western institutions while Roose­
velt was . given a substantial ma­
jority by the Southern colleges. 
Norman Thomas was able to se­
cure a majority of the votes in 
five institutions, distributed about 
the country. Twenty colleges in 
the East gave Hoover 15,075 votes 
to 5,021 for Roosevelt and 4,972 
for Thomas. Eleven institutions 
in the South cast 7,605 votes for 
Roosevelt, 1,865 for Hoover and 
857 for Thomas. The President 
carried nine Middle Western col­leges with 7,580 votes against 3,- 678 for Roosevelt- and 3,4-08 for Thomas, while In the Far West Hoover received 4,769, Roosevelt1,827 and Thomas 1,233.A comparison of the poll held at Carnegie with the results of the (Continued on Page Three)
W.S.O. Elects 
Mary Husband 
As New Head
WILLIAMS
Analytical Chemistry. Two years later he entered Johns Hopkins for his Ph.D. degree.
It was in 1915 that Dr. Watkins 
came to Carnegie as Associate Professor of Chemistry in Mar­garet Morrison Carnegie College. Some time later he became head of tlie Department of General Science, at the same time teaching Chemistry to freshmen and seniors 
for fifteen years. Since 1930 he has been chairman of the Margaret Morrison faculty, and for the last two years, Assistant to Dr. Baker. Meanwhile he has done commer­cial consulting work.
Dt. Watkins is an enthusiastic concert-goer, and likes operatic music. For physical exercise lie prefers walking, and often makes the trip between school and home on foot.
Dr. Watkins’ two children, •who are attending Pittsburgh secondary schools, occupy much of his time and interest. He sa^s that a full account of their actions would pro­vide a long and entertaining story.
The Women’s Scholarship Or­
ganization of Carnegie held its 
first meeting last Friday in the 
Women’s Club Room. Mary Hus­
band ’34 from Margaret Morrison 
and Betty Farrell '34 from the 
College of Fine Arts were elected 
vice presidents, Christine Leighou 
’33, the president of the organiza­
tion, appointed Marjorie Stout '33 
secretary.
By giving one major event each 
year the Women’s Scholarship Or­
ganization is able to provide 
money for its scholarships. Seven 
are to be given .this year, three 
the first semester and four the 
second, to worthy students select­
ed by the Committee on Scholar­
ships.
In the past this organization has 
presented “Okay,” a Shubert 
Amusement Company production; 
Helen Hayes, the well-known mo­
tion picture and stage actress in 
“Coquette;” Carola Goya, Spanish 
interpretive dancer; Madge Kenne­
dy in “Michael and Mary;” and 
last year Angna Enters was pre­
sented in Carnegie Music Hall in 
“Compositions in Dance Form.”
The members of the Scholarship 
Organization are the women who 
hold the office of president in the 
various activities on the campus and the vice president of the classes in the College of Fine Arts.
Printing Department 
To Publish Pamphlet
The Department of Printing will publish^ a specimen type face 
pamphlet in the near future. The pamphlet will display all of the best type faces available for use by the students in the hand and machine composition classes. The purpose of the leaflet is to acquaint the student with the characteris­tics of the various types as they appear on the printed page.Prof. Homer E. Sterling is mak­ing the selection of the faces; Mr. Charles W. Pitkin is supervising the typographical work which is being done by students "In the ad­vanced typography classes; and Mr. George F. Thomas is in charge of the printing and presswork of the pamphlet. All of these men are . connected with the Depart­ment of Printing.
Straiv Vote Statistics
STUDENT BALLOTS
Fine Arts__a__M. M. C. C____
Unclassified___Totals ------------
-------- 187 76 104-------- 1-13 32 7‘1
FACULTY BALLOTS
DEPARTMENT
Administration _______ 36Engineering __________ 0
Industries _____________ G
Fine Arts _________________M. M. C. C___________ 5
General Studies ______ 10
Totals ----------------------- 65 20 32
College Of 
Fine Arts To 
Exhibit Work
Display Of Productions 
Will Take Place At 
Carnegie Institute
An exhibition of the work of alumni of the College of Fine Arts is to be held at Carnegie Institute beginning Thursday and continu­ing through December 18 in the second floor galleries.
The exhibit has been planned by the Department of Painting and Decorating and includes represen­tative work of graduates of all classes from 1912 until 1931. All types of artistic productions in­cluding oil paintings, water colors, sculpture, illustrations, sketches, lithographs, and crafts, are to bo on display.
Among the exhibitors are sev­eral alumni who are now teaching in the College of Fine Arts. They are: Prof. Wilfred A. Readio ’18,Prof. Samuel Rosenberg ’26, Prof. Esther T. Edmonds ’18, Mr. Robert 
Lepper '27, and Mr. Russell G. Twiggs.
Other contributors to the exhibit are Grace L. Hamilton ’18, Isabell Rober ’18, Dorothy L. Bugher ’29, Catherine Eisaman ’23, Bertha G. Johnston, M,ary S. Marohnic '28, Lillian K. Miller '29, Mary Waugh ’31, Mildred' Young ’28, Mary A. Ziegler, Margaret Ruse ’20, MildredF. Sclimertz ’19, Jeannette Shirk ’21, Rachel M. Sutton ’16, Anne O. Todd ’30, Virginia F. Wallace ’26, Dorothy S. Mulloy ’25, Agnes Bitta- ker ’27, Robert Batch ’28, Edwin P. Couse, Jr., ’24, Forrest Crooks '17, Harry Hayden ’29, John C. Ed­wards ’31, Harold Forgostein ’27, David Fraser ’28, James D. Hogan ’25, John W. Kennedy' ’25, Ralph Kruclc ’31, Wesley Mills ’30. Vin­cent Nesbert, Howard Pearce ’20, Milan Petrovits, Verner Purnell ’26 , Howard Rathman ’23, W. Horace Riggs ’30, Sidney G. War­ner ’30, Lloyd Weninger, MortonG. Winslow ’22, Loris A. Withers ’12, William Wolfson, Robert Young ’30, William Shulgold, Ray­mond’ Simboli, Francis Thompson ’30, T. Ralph Lias ’27, A. L. Pit- assi, Raymond B. Dowden ’30, and Clifford A. Bayard ’17.
Sigma Alpha Iota 
To Give Concerts
A series of radio concerts over station KDKA are being presented by Sigma Alpha Iota, national mu­sical honorary at Carnegie, at 4:15 every Friday afternoon. School talent is being featured in these programs which will continue throughout the year.At a tea iast Wednesday, the musical fraternity presented a group of sophomore girls in a mu- sicale. Miss Dorothy Morse wel­comed the group and presented the program which was as follows:1. Beethoven Sonata ....................
........................ Margery Cribbs2. Chopin Etude in C minor.............................. Grace Metzger3. Mozart Sonata .......................................... Rosemarie Grentzer¦i. "Indian Fantasie”. .HildaEilers5. Rachmaninoff “Polichinelle”.................................. Ruth Levin6. Beethoven Sonata. Helen Slianer7. "Blue Are Her Eyes”.......................................... Virginia Cecil8. Adagio from Ries “Suite”-----...................... Margaret Varner9. A selection ..............................................Gertrude BreakstoneBecause the members of the fra­ternity wish to become acquainted with the talent of those who may be prospective members, they in­tend to make this tea an annual event.
President Given Two To 
One Maj or it y In 
Carnegie Poll
ROOSEVELT SECOND 
BY SMALL MARGIN
1,676 Students Ballot In 
Straw Vote; Faculty 
Also Participates
If tlie vote of Carnegie students 
is an indication of the sentiment 
of the United States in the coming 
election, Herbert Hoover will be 
re-elected as the President of the 
United States. He won the straw vote conducted on the campus last Wednesday, by at'two to one mar­gin. In the student ballot he re­ceived 808 of the 1,576 votes cast, while Franklin D. Roosevelt re­ceived 421, Norman Thomas 326, and William Fostei; 21. Hoover likewise won the Fac^ty Poll, re­ceiving 65 out of the '?.2«0 votes cast. Franklin D. Roosevelt re­ceived 29 and Norman Thoruo 26.Analyzing the results of the vot­ing by sex, it is found that of l,03y men student voting, 529 voted for Hoover, >29S for Roosevelt, and 212 for Thomas. The distribution of the women students’ votes was similar to the-men’s. The women cast 285 votes out of 453 for Hoov­er, 190 for Roosevelt, and 18 for Thomas. All of the votes Foster received were cast by men.Geographically, the results pre­sent. a different aspect. Pennsyl­vania was strong for Hoover and gave him 596 votes as against 186 for Roosevelt and 108 for Thomas. Ohio, was also pro-Hoover, giving him 86 votes while Roosevelt re­ceived 26 and Thomas 12. The New York students seemed to bo undecided as to their choice and 
polled 29 votes for Roosevelt, 29 for Hoover and 20 for Thomas.The situation was similarly tied in New Jersey, and several other states. Roosevelt carried only two states, Kentucky and Louisiana, 
(Continued on Page Three.)
Drama Head Is 
Sponsoring Parly
Professor Kenyon, Head of the 
Department of Drama, is forming 
a theater party to attend Walter 
Hampden’s presentation of “Cy­
rano de Bergerac” on Monday and 
Friday evenings, November 7 and
11. The importance not only of 
Mr. Hampden’s characterization of 
Cyrano, but the greatness of the 
play itself promises to attract 
large audiences, so students should,/ 
quickly grasp their opportunity to 
get regular $1.10 tickets for half price. Orders, cash in advance, should be placed immediately with Professor Kenyon in his office in 
the College of Fine Arts.Edmond Rostand’s “Cyrano de Bergerac” is one of the great plays of all time. It stands alone in the realm of modern romantic com­edy; even Shakespeare created no- more fascinating character than the big-nosed Gascon adventurer, whose renuunciation and self-sacri­
fice in order that the woman h© loved might wed the man she ador­ed and be happy, is one of tb 
noblest figures in literature.As dramatic entertainment "Cy­rano” has extraordinary variety. No other modern play is so filled with “big scenes” that progress in. crescendo to a thrilling denoue­ment; nor is there any other in which comedy, romance, pathos,, and roystering adventure are so- stirringly intermingled. The ver­sion of the play used by Mr. Hamp­
den was especially made for him by Brian Hooker. Competent cri­tics have pronounced it an Eng­lish masterpiece equal to tho French original.
COMING EVENTS
Wednesday, November 2:Kiltie Band Tea Dance, Thistle Hall, 4 to 6.Social Work Club Supper, Mar­garet Morrison Recreation Hall, 5 to 8:30.Friday, November 4:Gamma Gamma Gamma Soror­ity Formal, Schenley Hotel, 9 to 1.Saturday, November 5:Margaret Morrison Alumnae Tea, College Club, 2 o’clock. Cosmopolitan Club Meeting, M/irgaret Morrison Recreation Hall, 8 to 11:30.Beta Tau Lambda Sorority Formal, The Pines, 9 to 12. Cross Country Dance, Thistle Hall, 9 to 12.Sunday, November 6:Alpha Kappa Psi, Sorority Tea, Majory Glassbum’s- home. Beta Pi Sorority Bui. Supper, Rebecca William’s home.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CAKNEGTE TARTAN, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1932
THE INDIAN RAID
end: single room, $3.50 per night double room, ?5 per night.
THE OAKLAND 
BANK”
PeopSes- 
Pittsburgh 
Tryst Co.
the services or ex­
perienced officers are 
available to our de­
positorsOakland Branch
Forbes and Meyran
MEMBER FEDERAL 
RESERVE SYSTEM
SERGEANT SOMMER, THE RIFLE TEAM COACH, WOULD LET IT BE KNOWN that he is willing and ready to meet all candidates for the Varsity and Freshman Rifle team. Practice will start immediately. For those who are uninformed as to the exact location of the range, it is in the basement of the Margaret Morrison building back of the Field house. The range will be open from 2:30 to 4:30 on Tuesdays and Thursdays, and from 1:30 to 5:30 on Monday, Wednesday and Friday, and 9:30 to 12:00 on Saturday morning.
ALUMNI NEWS
THE
PLAID SPORTS 
SCREEN 
•
BY JOE BRONSON
Carnegie And Temple Battle 
To 7-7 Tie In Night Thriller
Instruction In 
Life Saving 
Will Be Given
Special Examiner Course 
Will Be Taught 
This Year
Instruction in two phases of life saving will be given this year in the Carnegie Pool. There will be classes for the regular award, that is, the Senior Red Cross Life Saving Membership-. To be eligible for this, men must be at least seventeen years of age and able to swim a quarter of a mile without lagging. After this, thorough tests are given on break­ing of holds, various types of car­ries, artificial respiration, etc.
For the first time at this school, a special course will be given to advanced swimmers which will qualify them as Senior Red Cross Life Saving Examiners. Anyone holding this degree is qualified to examine swimmers in the regular Junior and Senior Life Saving tests. The requirements for this course are that the man must be at least 21 years old and have held the Senior Red Cross Life Saving membership for at least a year.These classes will be taught by Charles Ackley from 5:00 to 6:00 o'clock on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday evenings. For further information consult M,r. Moses or Mr. Riesdorph.
Carnegie-Temple 
Lineup
Temple—7. Carnegie—7.
Pilconis J............L. E............ StewartC. Rubin ........L. T................ CroftD. Rubin ........L. G-... (c) SampleReese..................C..................JonesSmith................R. G-.................BurzloVenerosa ........R. T......... ForsmanGudd ..................R. E.......... OstroslcyTesta................Q. B............. DuegerZukas ..............L. H............. SpisakKillcuskie........R. H................................. KavelKostrava .........F. B................. Mihm
Score by periods:Tech .......................... 0 7 0 0—7Temple...................... 0 7 0 0—7
Touchdowns—rSpIsak, Johnson.Points after touchdown—Stewart (placement); Johnson (placement).Substitutes—Carn&gie: Plummer, right tackle; Bevevino. quarter­back; Heinzer, right guard; Nutter, left tackle; Siegal, center. Tem­ple: Johnson, left halfback:Graham, right end; P|ulley, left guard; Sweel, right guard; Regan, quarterback.
Reservations may be made through the Alumni Office.
The chairmen of the reunion classes have sent letters to each member of their group asking them to try to revisit Carnegie. The committees are as follows: 1917—Engineering, Thomas E. Orr; Industries, R. Patterson; Arts, Charles F. Steen; Margaret Morri­son, Mrs. C. R. Fettke. The en­gineering graduates of 1917 have planned a dinner for Friday night which will be held at their head­quarters in the Hotel Schenley. 1922—Engineering, John Hermann: Industries, Daniel F. Cassidy; Arts, Miss Katherine Shuman; and Mar­garet Morrison, Mrs. Marion Combs.The 1927 group is meeting after having been away from Carnegie for five years. Their college chair­men are: Engineering. Francis A. Kolb; Industries, Robert Glasner; Arts, Mrs. Max W. Bastian; Mar­garet Morrison, Miss- Frances Keiser.
This year will be the first re­union of the class of 1932, which graduated in June. Their represen­tatives are: Engineering, CharlesA. Bergliane; Industries. R. A. Gilliland; Arts, D. W. Seville; Mar­garet Morrison, Nancy Sloan.All Alumni are requested to re­ply to the letters which they have received from their chairmen as soon as possible.The following special rates are being offered by the Hotel Schen­ley during the home-coming week-
Both Teams Score In 
Second Period Of 
Great Contest
PLAID ATTACK FAILS 
ON OWL GOAL LINE
Kavel Again Proves Temple 
Nemesis As Skibos Mar 
Easterner’s Record
1 The Carnegie Tech and Temple 
University football representatives 
met last Friday night before 25,000 
wild-eyed fans and when the final 
curtain went down, another famous 
Tartan-Owl battle was entered in the records. It was the kind of contest which the spectators like to take home and play over, and the kind which has made Carnegie a fighting favorite in Philadelphia. The 7-7 score indicated to the 
fullest measure how bitterly the two teams each struggled for vic­tory.
In the matter of first downs and total advanced yardage, Carnegie 
outplayed Temple, but the Tartan scoring punch failed at the psycho­logical moment in the third quar­ter and thereby hangs the tale. As a last, desperate measure the Skibos tried a long field goal from the 40-yard line but Stewart’s at­tempt was a bit wide and the final whistle blew just a few minutes later.
Again, as last year, the bogey­man of Temple’s victory dreams proved to be George Kavel. At the very start of the game it wa3 Kavel’s long runbaclc of the kick- off which first threw a scare into the Owls and for the remainder of the period placed them on the de­fensive. And in the first play of the second quarter George broke off tackle deep in his own territory and raced clear to the Temple 17 where he was dragged down from behind. From this point the Tar­tans put on the pressure and, with the aid of an interference penalty, drove the ball aver for their only score. Spisak accounted for the touchdown and Stewart booted the ball neatly between the uprights tor the extra point.
Temple’s score also came in the second stanza and resulted largely from Carnegie’s deficient passing defense. The Owls completed nu­merous long passes and would up, after a 70-yard advance, with a first down on the Tartan 10-yard stripe. Four straight smashes at the line and Johnson, a really great back, 
was over for the score. This same Johnson added the extra point that meant so much, with a perfect place-kick.
Thè Tartan aerial attack was practically a negative quantity, with the exception of one beautiful 40-yard heave from Bevevino to Ostroslcy which placed the ball on the Temple seven-yard mark. Two 
running plays moved the oval up to the one-foot line but with victory jUst 12 short inches away and two downs to go the Slcibo attack was suddenly rendered impotent by the fighting Cherry and White players who erected the proverbial stone wall and took the pigskin away from Carnegie on downs. From this heartbreaking point on, with the exception of the time when Dame Fortune frowned on Stew­art’s field goal attempt, the Owls had little trouble in holding the Techites at bay.For the Tartans, Kavel, who con­tinues to be the most talked of man in Temple football circles, was the shining light and stood 
head and shoulders above all the- other ball carriers in the game. Joe Milim’s fine kicking and gen­eral all-around good play wras also a great asset to the Tartans. Co- 
Captain Hooks Sample started his first game since the Reserve affair and his presence throughout the entire 60 minutes of play aided Carnegie no little. Temple was forced to play without the services of her great little quarterback Len Whittock, but made up for it by trumping the Skibos’ defensive aces with Jack Johnson.
The faculty of Rochester Uni­versity have abolished all 8 o'clock classes. They prefer to have the
Rifle Team 
Practice To 
Start Soon
Shooting Practice Called 
In Preparation For 
Hard Schedule
This afternoon the Tartan sharp­
shooters will dust off their trusty 
muskets and commence on another 
long season. The schedule this 
year calls for matches from the 
middle of November until the lat­
ter part of Api’il.
Coach Sommer has on his roster 
several of last year’s lettermen and 
team members, and besides, a fair 
squad from the freshmen from last 
year. However, the loss of such 
men as Beckert and Scherba, two 
of iast year's stalwarts, will leave some mighty large gaps to be filled. Reporting this afternoon will be: Painter, Buse,. Irons, Dick­son, Stirling, Miller, Merriman, Parker; and from last year’s Plebe team: Hamilton, Morehouse, Gass, Dorrel, and M,ellinger.This year’s schedule is not yet complete but there promises to be oyer a hundred outstanding col­leges on the list with whom indi­vidual telegraphic matches will be shot. Carnegie is always a strong contender in such large na­tion-wide matches as the National Intercollegiate Match, The Engi­neers Trophy Match, The Hearst Trophy Match. Several shoulder- to-shoulder matches are also being scheduled, all of which points to a very busy year for the marksmen.
Tech Harriers 
Down Geneva 
For First Win
Capt. Bob Schell Leads 
Tartan Runners To 
16-39 Victory
NEW SECRETARY ELECTED
William A. Hoffman, Jr., '33, Kappa Delta Rlio, was elected sec­retary of the Interfraternity Coun­cil last Saturday to fill the vacancy 
caused by the resignation of John W. Ladd, ’33, Pi Kappa Alpha.
A machine that shuffles a deck of cards and deals out four bridge hands in four seconds lias been in­vented by two. professors at Bos­ton University.
The Carnegie Tech Harriers 
gained their first victory of the 
year by decisively defeating Geneva 
16-39 in Schenley Park last Satur­
day. The Plaid runners placed five 
out of the first six men. gaining the first four places and coming within one point of a perfect score. Captain Schell led the Tartans to the tape, followed closely by Allan. The time, 29 minutes, 42.4 seconds was rather slow probably because of a high wind and the lack of stiff competition.The order of finishing was: First, Schell, Carnegie; second, Allan, Carnegie; third, Giolma, Carnegie; fourth, Stankey, Carne­gie; fifth, Wray, Geneva; sixth, Burke, Carnegie; seventh, Hamil­ton, Geneva; eighth, Witherow, Geneva; ninth, Netzer, Geneva; tenth, Sweringen, Geneva.The Tartan rooters had a good chance to see the Pitt thinly-clads in action as they raced against Penn State-just before Tech started against the Covenanters. The Pitt Frosli also strutted their stuff against the Penn State youngsters shortly after. Penn State had lit­tle trouble taking over Pitt which means the Penn State team was plenty good.
The Skibo Hill-and-Dalers en­gage Westminster over the Schen­ley Park course on Saturday. After coming through with an unexpect­ed decisive victory over Geneva last Saturday the Tartans should have little trouble with the Presby­terians. Geneva already chalked up a decisive victory-over West­minster in an early season contest. 
However, the Tartan Harriers had better use every opportunity to im­prove for on following Saturdays they meet the strong teams of West Virginia and Pitt.The Tartan Plebe Harriers lost to the Schenley Runners 32-27 in Schenley Park last Wednesday. This makes the second defeat for the Freshmen in two starts, the first one being administered by Peabody. The only outstanding man so far this season is Gariety. The Plebes are unusually weak this year, probably due to a very late start.The schedule for the remainder of the season lines Up with an A.
Women’s Athletics by Gloria Kloos
With the tennis courts in a con­
dition resembling chocolate soup it 
isn’t easy to play off the scheduled 
matches. We are in favor of a 
drought, a hurricane or a day of scorching sunshine, anything in fact that will absorb some of the moisture from that soft clay. But in the meantime anyone who cau steal a minute from .classes might hunt up their partners and start the balls popping in the Gym. Anne Warden has promised to speak to the weatherman about the situation, and we can hope for some results soon.Robinliood and William Tell 
would blush to see the number of fair aspirants who are seeking to master their favorite sport. Of course we can blame the weather again for part of the trouble, but even when the sun shines there aren’t too many arrows flying down in the hollow. Come on, freshmen, show some school spirit.
Hoover Takes Lead 
In Vote At Carnegie
Continued From Page 1 
receiving the total vote of the stu­dents from eacli state. Thomas and Foster failed to muster a ma­jority in any one state. Records 
show that Hoover carried 33 of the 37 states represented, Roosevelt 2, and a tie resulted in the remaining state.
Of the total ballots cast, 550 were from students who were eli­gible to vote. Of this group 256 favored Hoover, 1S6 Roosevelt, and 10 Foster.
In surveying the entire poll it is interesting to note that the ma­jority of the students treated the balloting in a serious manner. The number of facetious votes was al­most negligible. It was only through the co-operation of the ad­ministration and faculty that Tar­tan was able to gather accurate political sentiment at Carnegie.
A freshman at Bucknell entered the gym and asked for a scrim­mage line. He wanted it to tie up a charlie horse.
A. U. meet, November 5, Shady- side Academy, November 11, and Pitt, November 18.
Harvard Classics
FOR SALE CHEAP
GEORGE A. P1LLSBURY Mayflower 7629 623 Ivy Street
You’ll never acquire brilliance witl your nose stuck in a book all tin time.
“Six lines a week, any hour, any day." This is the schedule tlin Monnie Watters has ordered for ai those who are trying out for th< bowling team. You can roll more if you so desire, and then hand in the best six scores of the whole. That’s a grand privilege. Be sure that you take advantage of it.Now that W. A. A. has pur­chased some new sliin-guards for the Hockey Team no one should be afraid to start out for the sport seriously. If you still harbor any qualms then ask to be allowed to play goal-keeper until you can overcome what Dr. Shafer prefers to call your “inhibitions.” Thor new outfits that the goal-keepei are affecting are guaranteed to pri tect the wearer against colt bumps, shocks and bruises of a kind and color. Why not try on out some day?
Skibo Plebes To 
Face W-J Frosh
A tonsilitis epidemic at Kisk> 
was responsible for the postponing 
of the game scheduled between tin 
Saltsburg school and the Skibr 
Plebes last Saturday. Both team, were also suffering from a stagge’ 
ing crop of injuries received earlier games, and the coaches sidered it best to delay host’" for a while.Coach Armentrout was say definitely just when would be played, but it 
that it might be playe during the week.Meanwhile “Army” i men for the game w1 Jeff Frosh this Satu tie prexies have strong squad this players from Carr freshman team 1 ton this season.
i Get ita
SWEATE 
HAR? 
R J
SPORT]
¡Graff Br.
Hilar 
5912 Pe
**"Nature in the Raw”—as p- 
trayed by the celebrated artist, Fi 
Madan . . . inspired by that tvi 
bloody scramble of covered wago 
in the Colorado Gold Rush (1855 
as described in the National Ge 
graphic Magazine. **Nature in tl 
Raw is Seldom Mild”—and raw 
baccos have no place in cigar
No raw tobaccos in Lucide 
—that’s why they’re so mild
WE buy the finest, the 
very finest tobaccos 
in all the world—but that 
does not explain why folks 
everywhere regard Lucky 
Strike as the mildest ciga­
rette. The fact is, we never 
overlook the truth that 
"Nature in the Raw is 
Seldom Mild” — so these 
fine tobaccos, after proper
aging and mellowing, ai 
then given the benefit 
that Lucky Strike puri' 
ing process, described 
the words—"It’stoaste 
That’s why folks in e- 
city, town and hamle 
that Luckies are such 
cigarettes.
“It’s toast*
THEi GEetEam PO NAVf ?S
Carnegie Alumni w'ill hold their sixth annual home-coming on No­vember IS and 19, the week-end of "he Carnegie-University of Pitts­
burgh football game. This date, marks the regular fiftli-year re­unions for the graduates of the classes of 1912, 1917, 1922, and 1927.As in previous years, the pro­gram for the alumni will follow an organized plan of entertainment. Registration will take place the morning of November IS in the Trophy Room of the Gymnasium Building. Alumni are requested to register as soon as they arrive on the Campus. President Baker will entertain the members of the Class of 3912 and their husbands and wives at a luncheon at noon. This! ;event is in accordance with the .custom that the President enter­tain the oldest reunion class; the members of 1912 are meeting for their twentieth year. The reunion committee for the class of 1912 is: Engineering, John F. Laboon; In­dustries, II. M. McCuliy; Arts, P, It. Sterling; Margaret Morrison,'; Mrs. W. H. I-Iarrold. Luncheon for all other returning alumni will bo served in the Commons Annex Din­ing Room. To those to whom the name is unfamiliar, the Commons 
is now located at the site of the old Langley Laboratory.
In the afternoon at 2 o’clock ap­pointees of each class have been designated to make the presenta­tion of reunion class plates to be added to the pattern begun by the 190S class in the main corridor of Administration Hall. At this time Dr. Baker will officially welcome the returning alumni. The senior lionoraries, Mortar Board and Dragons, will participate in the program, and the Glee Club will
sing the “Alma Mater” and “Fight for the Glory of Carnegie.”Dean Green to Entertain AlumnaeDean Green will entertain the alumnae at tea at 4 o’clock in the Women’s Club Room of the Gym­nasium Building. The Department 6f Drama will present Ibsen’s “Pillars of Society" in a special performance for Alumni at 8:15 in the Little Theater, College of Fine Arts. Tickets, which are necessary for this performance, may be se­cured at the Alumni Office. Before the theater performance, the class of 1917 will hold a reunion ban­quet at the Hotel Schenley at 6 o’clock under the chairmanship of Thomas E. Orr.
No program has been arranged for Saturday morning, this time having been left open for special reunion parties and individual group plans. The Margaret M,orri- son, Alumnae have already selected 
this morning for their breakfast, which will take place at 12 o’clock.At 2 o'clock Carnegie will play its annual football game against the University of Pittsburgh in the Pitt Stadium. Tickets may be se­cured at the Alumni Office.Cabaret Dlnner-Dance Saturday.
A cabaret dinner-dance will be. held on Saturday night in the Ho­tel Schenley for all reunion classes and all other alumni and friends who .will be in Pittsburgh for the home-coming. In order to enable all alumni to attend this affair, the dance is scheduled for Saturday night this year instead of Friday night as was formerly the cake. Arrangements have been made to have tables set up for those desir­ing to play bi’idge. The committee has secured Will Ryshanek’s Na­tional Broadcasting Orchestra.
IN THE FIRST NIGHT GAME IN WHICH THE CARNEGIE TECH TARTANS HAVE EVER ENGAGED, they showed the fans of the Quaker City one of the best games of the season and emerged from the field with a 7-7 tie with the strong Temple Owls. It took the Tartans, who were the underdogs, only a short while to prove to the home team that they had been under rated; for in two minutes after the opening 
kickoff the Owls were in the shadows of their own goal posts fighting fiercely to thwart a Plaid score. The Tartans finally tallied at the opening of the second quarter but the final chalkmark had to be crossed three times before it was scored as a touchdown. Kavel carried the ball over twice, the first time it was ruled that he had been momen­tarily downed on the two-yard marker, and the second time the back- field was in motion and a five-yard penalty inflicted. However, on the next play Bill Spisak scored on an end run. Temple’s score also came in this quarter. An uninterrupted drive of eighty yards, featured by several long passes put the pigskin on the two-yard line, from where Johnson, Temple’s stellar left halfback, plunged over for six points.
THE TARTAN'S ATTACKED CLICKED BETTER ON FRIDAY NIGHT THAN IT HAS AT ANY TIME THIS YEAR. This can be shown by the fact that the Skibos gained more than 200 yards by rushing and continually had the ball in their opponent’s territory. And Heine Mil­ler’s big Cherry and White team were the favorites to win by two touchdowns. Once or twice the playing was ragged, but for the most part it was good, and if the improvement keeps up future opponents are going to have a tougher time than they have anticipated. On three different occasions the Plaid team penetrated deeply into the Owl’s territory, but for some reason or other the necessary scoring punch was lacking. The best chance was in the third quarter when a pass, from Bevevino to Ostrosky which was good for forty-five yards, put the ball on the twenty-one-yard marker. Kavel took the ball up to the seven-yard line for a first down, but when fourth down came along the ball was still several inches from the final chalk mark. Later in the game an attempted field goal by Stewart from the 42-yard line narrowly 
missed being good.
CO-CAPTAIN GEORGIE KAVEL PROVEb TO BE THE BEST BACK ON THE FIELD, and although a marked man before the game started he was poison to the Owls all evening. In spite of a bad ankle George galloped away 1jo several long gains and numerous shorter ones. On the opening kickoff he carried the ball across midfield and was finally forced out of bounds on the home team’s 43-yard line. At the begin­ning of the second quarter the bespectacled Tartan captain ran from midfield to the opponent’s 35-yard line, reversed his field and reached the 17-yard rnjirk before he was downed.Co-Captain Hooks Sample returned to the lineup for the first time since the V;-. & J. game, and was a big factor in stopping the Owl’s at­tack at t!ie line of scrimmage. Bevevino also played for the first time since the W. & J. contest, and the manner in which he directed the tea»,i brought back memories of some of his exploits last year. If he 0&n continue to play as well as he did Friday he will stand a good chance to be the first choice for the quarterback position.
THE FOOTBALL TEAM GETS A WEEK'S REST BECAUSE OF AN OPEN DATE IN THE SCHEDULE. The Skibos do not play until No­vember 12, when they encounter Xavier in Cincinnati. For the next three weeks the Plaid mentors will be working on the squad in an en­deavor to whip them into shape for the Pitt game November 19. And, believe it or not, the coaches are in a tough spot when one happens to think of what the Pitt Panther, did to Notre Dame.
HOW THOSE SOUTH BENDERS CAN KEEP FROM INSTALLING A MACHINE GUN as part of ther regular equipment when they meet a Pittsburgh eleven is beyond me, because teams from this Smoky City have proved to be a stumbling block for the Galloping Irish. The 12-0 defeat which the Panthers administered to "Hunk” Anderson’s boys marks the third time that Irish elevens have succumbed to Pittsburgh opponents, and no doubt two of these marred an otherwise unbeaten record. In 1926 and 1928 the Tartans did the trick and this year the Panthers step out in front. Just how great the 1932 Notr& Dame team is remains to be seen. If the Irish can come back after that defeat they are good, but if they let it disrupt their whole schedule—well, they are nothing more than mediocre. However, I still believe that Notre Dame has the best team in the country, in spite of their defeat by Pitt. I think this will be proved by future scores. Except for that one play where Sebastian broke through for a touchdown, the Irish had the edge. But we can not take the credit away from Pitt who did vOhat many football critics said was Impossible, and that was—stop Notre Dame.
COACH C5UY IIALFERTY’S CROSS-COUNTRY TEAM came through %ylth a well earned 16-39 victory against Geneva on the Schenley Park .course oil Saturday. The Tartans, led by Captain Bob Schell, who •came in first, took live out of six places, Geneva placing one man fifth. The meet this week against Westminster should be taken easily by the Plaid runners.The plebe team has yet to win a meet having lost to Schenley 
.•and Peabody.
»COACH ALLEN RIESDORPH IS HAVING A TOUGH TIME WITH THE SWIMMING TEAM this year. He has more would-be swimmers than he knows what to do with, as 65 men are out for the Freshman and Varsity teams. This gives Coach Riesdorph the distinction of being the first Carnegie coach to ever have more candidates for a team than he can successfully handle. That is in quantity; we can’t vouch for the quality. Maybe it is the personality that gets 'em. How about it coach? Better dispense the secret to some of the less for­
tunate mentors.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 19323
Start Institute 
For Advancement 
Of Higher Study
Plans for a projected Institute for Advanced Study are going for­ward as a result of the donation of $5,000,000 by Louis Bamberger and Mrs. Felix Fuld, of Newark, New Jersey. This Institute will be tem­porarily located in the. Fine ball at Princeton until the new buildings are completed.
The object of the institute is to bring together the best of teach­ers, scholars, research workers and students so that they may con­centrate tlieir efforts more favor­ably in the solution of scientific problems. The institute will be opened only to post graduate stu­dents of exceptional promise. It is the hope of Dr. Abraham Flex- ner, the director, to establish a school of higher thought in Amer­ica comparable with some of the great European scientific schools, such as l’Ecole Polytecbnique in France and Gottingen in Germany. Those things usually thought of in connection with universities such 
as football games, parties and balls will be entirely absent at the in­stitute. The faculty and staff will be entirely free to forge ahead, each in his own respective field without any outside distractions. It ought to make an ideal haven for many of our scholars.Dr. Albert Einstein has been in­vited to become Professor of Mathematical and Theoretical Physics and has accepted. About seven months of his time will be spent at the institute, and the re­maining five months of the year in Germany. The institute should provide the means of concentrat­ing at one place men of right ca­pability where, they can work to­gether and have the benefit of each other’s help and advice. Not only does this proposed institute, which is already starting to become a reality, offer a means of solving some of our most perplexing prob­lems but it also will initiate an era of higher education in Amer­
ica.
Dorm. Rooms Available 
For Night Students
Rooms in the Men’s Dormitories are available for night students. Some twenty night men now live in the dormitories. Any one in­terested may secure information on Monday evenings at the office of the Dean of Men, Administra­tion Hall. The rate is S3.00 a week for a single room and $2.30 for a double room. The rooms are fur­nished, and the Institute provides light, heat, bed linen, and service. Three of the dormitories'have out­door sleeping porches. All of them have shower baths on each floor.
Night Arts To 
Hold Dance In 
Thistle Hall
Request College 
Workers’ Names
Student Goes On 
Tour; Sees Many 
Interesting Sights
size one could almost imagine him­self in a region that Dante so well described in his ‘'Divine Comedy." Burning fires flared up here and there, dark unrecognizable shad­ows moved around, smoke and fumes filled the air. The picture was awe inspiring despito its ter­rifying aspect. Molten metal 
poured from one crucible into an­other reminded me of a river of fire, sparks flying all around the room brought back pictures of mid-summer fireflies and fire­works. All in all the place attract­ed me as no other shop had done so far. Suddenly powerful lights 
flooded the room and I was awak­ened abruptly from a pleasant dream. Under the glare of these lights an interesting picture was transformed into an ugly, every­day scene of a dirty foundry.
Classes were over, the night’s work done, and the tour was con­cluded, but some day I am going to invade the Arts School and see what is going on over there. Sure I’ll tell you all about it.
The officers of the Night College 
of Engineering and Night College 
of Industries are requested to turn 
in a list of the names of all those 
night students who worked at the 
functions held by these colleges so 
far this year.
The point system for insignia 
award requires that the names of 
the students working at any col­
lege function shall be turned over 
to the vice president of the Coun­
cil immediately after the function 
takes place. These names should 
therefore be turned in within the 
next week so that all the students 
who worked will receive proper 
credit towards an insignia award. 
All students who have worked at 
any affair should check up with 
those in charge of the function and 
see that their name has been turn­
ed in.
Upon completion of an early 
class the other evening this curi­
ous reporter decided to find out 
what the rest of the campus was 
doing. To have the authorities 
put on a special exhibition night 
show was out of the question, so 
the next best thing to do was to 
wander around to see what could 
be seen. The Industries school 
presented an enticing picture and 
a good place to go, so a start for 
this building was made.
After strolling down the corri-. dor a short distance, sounds of hammering and buzzing were heard and these attracted my at­tention. Investigation of the source of noise brought me to the wood working shop. Here grown men were making miniature houses, doll houses I suppose, and others were working on lathes, while still others were busy laying out patterns. The scene was in­teresting, but I do not care much for wood work so I moved along. A little further down the corridor and down the steps, brought me to j the tin shop. Here were all sorts of dodads and gadgets hanging around in a bewildering collection. Grotesque shapes reminded me of objects ranging from sinister im­plements to humorous puzzles. No doubt they served their purpose and the students probably learned something when they made them, but none of that for me, so on to some other scene of activity.
The printing department at­tracted me next, but only for a moment because a clanging which was accompanied by intermittent flashes of light further down the corridor proved too much for my curiosity. Following these sounds brought me into the foundry. Here in a dimly lit room of enormous
First Social Event Of 
Year To Take Place 
On November 12
Balloting Preceded By 
Usual Speeches And 
Much Cheering
The annual election smoker of 
the Night College of Engineering 
was held Saturday evening, Octo­
ber 22, in the Union. Although 
the affair was originally scheduled 
to be held in the gymnasium be­
cause of a ruling that the use of 
the Union for smokers was to be 
discontinued, the change back to 
the Union was a very happy move.
A varied program was provided for the evening and consisted of selections by the Men’s Glee Club, a string quartet, and songs and cheers which were led by a cheer leader from the day school.
A new feature for the smoker was a showing of a series of talk­ing pictures dealing with a phase of the operations of a large com­munication organization. Through the efforts of Mr. George C. Gar- liart, who arranged this part of the program, the extensive and com­plicated equipment necessary to properly project such a series of pictures was furnished by the Bell Telephone Company. The pic­tures were exceedingly interesting 
and new information was present­ed in an entertaining manner on the absorbing technique of electric communication and its various as­pects.Professor Robert B. Leighou, As­sociate Director of Night Courses, was a guest and gave an interest­ing short talk to those present. Following this address the various officers of the school spoke and the college proceeded to elect offi­cers for the year. The results of the election were: Mr. Alexander J. Lois, president; Mr. Robert L. Slocum, vice president; Mr. Ar­
thur W. Luck, secretary, and Mr. Robert W. Lahr, treasurer.The business meoting of the smoker was concluded, and those in attendance were treated to a tasty lunch which consisted of the usual refreshments furnished at such occasions.
last, after several efforts, wasted which 1 could use to 
tr advantage, I was able to n print my complete thoughts ,he week. It is gratifying to at one’s work of art—and if5 idle isn’t a work of art, well try it and see how you get ?, and to think that all was ed, that was something. I ?oing to duplicate the writing see how far I get. Those edi- are a pesky lot. They pencil , cut there, pull there, and be- they finish, well it’s a Chinese le to find out where you began whero they ended, 
tee that our enrollment is not0 previous years, but that we to the expected decline. Inface of all that is happening, is not a big calamity. Things ge over night, and who can but that some night we will
2 up to find all the rooms1 and the shops crowded as used to be in nights gone by. ever, we should be glad that jollege is open and we are able un along as smoothly as we 
doing.igrees by the dozen, yes be- ! it or not, but it is apparently that some person has already i decorated with that number read an account of the hap- ng in the paper. Twelve de- s, five of them in the doctorate j, and these five were won in year. Gee! what an achieve-1. Makes some of us look pale omparison. B.A., M.A., Ph.D., J.D., LL.D., J.S.D., etc. Looks some foreign code or some-g. Well, guess we better take hats off to the person who d earn so many of them, leaking of degrees brings me he question of esfabl’shing a •ee for being idle. That's an Bet there would be mere lidates for the office than there
3 places to fill. Remember, the »osition is not an assured thing ret, it is only ¦ an idea. Who tvs where it will lead to. I5 my application in for the first ice and believe I should be n the first opportunity to qual-
This being idle proposition its good points as well as bad. n’t seem to get anywhere very . neither do the other night ents who are working for de- is. Look at the list of eight, and twelve year men who are Sure does lake a lot of plug- ; to keep coming out y.mr after
About this time in the season of 
the night school life the night stu­
dents commence to find themselves 
and become accustomed to the mo­
notonous, although pleasant, rou­
tine of class room procedure. It 
is also the time when new ac- 
quantances have been formed, new 
associations have been made, and 
new social activities participated 
in, especially so is this true of the 
new night students. Our Council 
takes this aspect of the night stu­
dent life seriously and arranges 
social functions for the various 
colleges throughout the year, in 
the nature of dances, or other so­
cial functions.
The first dance to be held this year will be sponsored by the Night College of Fine Arts for the students who are registered in that particular college. The date set for the party is November 12 and the necessary reservations have been made to secure Thistle Hall. Tentative plans have been made by those in charge of the dance and the completed arrangements will be announced shortly.All night students who are reg­istered in the Night College of Fine Arts and who have paid the Night Student Council Activities Fee are permitted to attend the dance. Tickets will be distributed shortly to those who have their registration card so the night art 
students should be sure to have this registration card with them to insure receipt of a ticket.
DIDJA NOTICE
THAT the night engineers held their annual bawl, and what a bawl it was. Some of our “best citizens” showed a surprising lack of courtesy as well as acu­men especially when some deep thinking was necessary.THAT the repetition of last year’s performance of the “who took those pickles’’ comedy was omitted, and this by the way was a bright spot in an other­wise hectic evening.THAT washroom towels seem to be plentiful this year. Either some one is on his toes, or the students don’t wash as often. THAT two big shots had their maps spread all over our page last week. Who’s your praise agent boys? •THAT by this time the Arts and Industries will have had their new officers elected and the new council should be ready to go. Good luck fellows, may you lead a scrappy life.THAT we’re enjoying a good snicker these days, at least a dozen people have been accused of dishing out this logic. Heh! heh! little do they reck, who I am.THAT specialized education in one line somehow makes one narrow-minded towards a lot of other things, and this condition, like all ills, is seldom realized by the victim.THAT a wagging tongue is a despicable appendage. It’s a wonder those unfortunate mor­tals don’t wise up once in a while.THAT the night arts will blow the lid off Thistle Hall in a short time.THAT this column leads a nomadic life, spotted all over the page, maybe that’s because I am who I am.THAT that’s that and I’ll be seenya!
At the University of Albania they have ‘T)a\vn Dances." They dance from 6 to S a. m. Well, all the queer ones don’t live up north.
Puppet Sales Returns 
To Be Made This Week
All night school Puppet sales­men are requested to make returns for all Puppet sales this week. These returns are to be made to E. E. McDonald, room 144-C Indus­tries Building. Salesmen are re­quested to give prompt attention to this notice so that proper credit for copies sold can be made. No­tification of the publication of the next number will be posted later.
BAYARD STREET
Two furnished rooms and bath. Unlimited Phone.Garage and Meals Optional. 
MRS. C. P. WRIGHT Ma. 8613 113 Bayard Place
A Sure 
FoundationRussian schools are so crowded that even small children must at­
tend classes for a few hours rur- ing the day and then work on a night shift, according to an Ameri­can student who has just return­ed from a year of teaching at Tomsk. Anyone expressing a Christian belief is barred from the schools.—Northeast Missourian.
One of the safest foundations 
on which to build your finan­
cial independence is a savings 
nccount. Systematic saving 
begun while you are in college 
will pnve the way for » suc­
cessful future. Our Savings 
Accounts pay liberal interest 
compounded scml-unnuaUy.
Edwin T. Meyer, O. D.
OPTOMETRIST
Specializing in Examining Eyea and 
FurnishinK Glasses.
"Special Student Rates”
413 DIAMOND BANK BUILDING
Webster’s New International Dictionary India Paper Edition 
FOR SALE 
GEORGE A. PILLSBURY Mayflower 7629 623 Ivy Street
liberti) Engraving Company
m PHOTO ENG PAVE f? S *
*C *UTWFM*KIOeVKITI*VABW LWH^OAEE. ^
D. McClain Appointed 
Student Commander
‘ Continued From Page 1 "
Kay L. Winslow, captain Company C; Marion C. McNary, captain Company D; College of Fine Arts: Jean J. Douglas, captain Company E; and Mary E. Gamble, captain Company F. These girls will be presented with chevrons and mili­tary commissions at the Military Ball.The crowning feature of this year’s military activities will be the Military Ball which will be held in Thistle Hall on November10. The commissioning of the Honorary Cadets and the calling of nèw men to the Scabbard and Blade will play a principal part in the evening’s entertainment. The hall will be decorated in mili­tary colors with unusual lighting effects, and although it has not as yet been chosen, a prominent 
orchestra will furnish the music.The Ball will be strictly formal and uniforms may be worn al­though they are not necessary. Re­freshments will be served and the admission price will be $2.50 per couple.Another important military activity was Colonel R. H. Leavitt’s fourth annual inspection of the R. O. T. C. last Thursday. This in­spection is a preliminary to the an­nual spring inspection when a rat­
ing is given to the entire unit.Colonel Leavitt was a guest at the Scabbard and Blade Luncheon which was held at the Sclienley Hotel after the inspection. The speaker at this luncheon was Major Muller or the 99th division who 
spoke on the Progress of Airplane Development.
Optimism vs. res- 
simism; Absorbing 
Topics Of DaylifiaT /s 
Cross jSíenc/¿ncf
INTERCOLLEGIATE 
CLIPS
3s, we have ‘‘hem too. Campus osities or some such things, college is not very old judged ;he older colleges in the coun- but judging by the strides we d made in our short history we3 accumulated a great deal of antique. Only the other day I ced a large quantity oL’ para- malia which looked s If it come l the Ark. But then this was after school opened and they l’t have time to hide the evi- ce. We are traveling at a rapid b and it won’t be, long before have all the necessary accou- nents which other colleges e even to ttie activities build- and" a free-for-all college li- ry. Why, even the bric-a-brac r in the arts has taken on a Sued antique tone which be­aks of a time limit apropos to works of art they represent, nd as for the activities build- well we surely need a place that. Funny some our large ring, little doing, always sug- ting big minds can’t find a way to get the ground broken for a [ding. Why, we could build a ding in no time if, there you I am offering suggestions my- , I will soon be in the same 
up.‘ea boy! The Kilties are com- Coming into their own. Glad note that others are becoming ire of the importance of our id. I always said they would ke their mark and they have ceeded at last. It must have n a sight to see them pulling Ir stuff at South Bend. Ever :ch them put anything over? I e from. -the side line and, be- e me, they are up and at it. sy sort’a remind me of the way night students put their big ces over. Nothing too big to
Shaving sets are in hock and stores are raising the price of hair tonic at Northwestern. The an­nual beard-growing contest is on. 
This year tiie contest-ought to be more interesting, for each contest­ant is to choose a feminine train­er, whose task it will be “to lend moral support and to cheer on the growth to greater length.”________
tackle. Carnegie should ’be proud of their band.Which brings me to signing off with “So long until next ¦week” . . . That was the Idle Night Stu­dent of Station PLAID who will return again next week at this same hour. The Tartan bids you all “Good Night.”
Ion? To Avoid Sonerj*
"Let’s say you’re painting clouds. 
You’ve got your primary colors here 
on the palette. But you haven’t the 
clouds until you blend certain colors 
into the special tone you want.
”This is very much what happens 
in making a good cigarette. And I 
gather that what Chesterfield means 
by Cross-Blending is what an artist 
does with colors. Their Domestic 
and Turkish tobaccos — many varie­
ties of each—are the primary colors.
They blend and cross-blend these 
tobaccos until they get the special 
tone they want—in other words, the 
Chesterfield flavor.
"And just as each color you use 
acts on the others to change and 
enrich them, so each Chesterfield to­
bacco partakes of the fine qualities 
of every other.
ee You 'weld’ different kinds to get 
a better kind. That’s Cross-Blend­
ing!”
S ACC HUS The
V FAMOUS GREEK 
BOOTLEGGER.
iY to forgive him. Poor chap, 
e really means well, even if he 
think his posterity is the thing
you’re really sorry for Bill Boner, 
him a pipe and some good to- 
. That will straighten him out 
a pipe filled with Edgeworth 
**ng Tobacco clears the brain 
straight thinking. As you know, 
eworth was proved by a recent 
stigation to be the favorite smok- 
tobacco at 42 out of 5-1 leading 
iges.
he college man likes that distinc- 
llavor that comes only from this 
d of fine old hurleys. It’s dlffcr- 
It’s a soothing, relaxing sort of 
ke that makes the job in hand 
a little easier.
You can buy Edgewortli anywhere 
in two forms—Edgeworth Ready- 
Rubbed and Edgeworth Plug Slice. 
All sizes—15}i pocket package to 
pound humidor tin. Or—perhaps 
you’d like to try before you buy. 
Then write for a free sample packet.
AddressLarus&Bro. ____
Co., 120 S. 22d St., jf||ggp^ 
Richmond, Va.
>h>if ~tfieyre MILDER 
M t/iey TASTE BETTER
rossGEWO FTTH SMOKING TOBACCO
© 1932, Ligcett & Myehs Tobacco Co.

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 1. 1932
PIPE TOBA
YOU DRAW 
IT!
GUESS WHAT?
artve <JTarue<Jve (Tartan
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2G00 
After Oflicc Hours Call 
Editor-In-Chief________Schcnley 9436 Sport» Editor___________Sehcnlcy 9580
Published weekly during the college year by undergraduates of Carneglo InBtitute of Technology. Entered in the Pitiflburjch Post Office as second-class matter.
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF----------------------------------------------------------------------------------JOHN W. LADD
BUSINESS MANAGER____________________________________________JULIUS HALPERNNEWS EDITOR____________________________________________________ELIZABETH PRELI
ATHLETIC EDITOR____________________________________________JOSEPH C. BRONEPLAID EDITOR____________________ ________________________EDWARD E. McDONALD
ASSOCIATE EDITORS 
CPGy Editors: Christine Lelghou Alumni Editor: Henrietta SteinbergDolly Allison Exchange Editors: Marjorie DoughertyHarry Hower Ruth Phillips
Assignment Editor: Anthony Camvale
MANAGING BOARD THIS ISSUE John Hilta, Edmund McCormick, Alice Henzi, Loretta Conlin.
JUNIOR EDITORS: Joseph Adams, Anthony Cacchionc, Loretta Conlin, Alice Henzi, John Hiltz, Edmund McCormick, Samuel Wicks, Jacciue Minnotte.
A.THLETIC STAFF: Glorin Kloos, Women’s Editor; Ned Stirling, John Lowes, 
James Halferty, Jerry Hansen, Clifton Carr.
PLAID STAFF: James H. Snnsonetti, News Editor; Frank Cassel, A. N. EvenB, H. 
E. McGannon.
SPECIAL WRITERS: Mary McCullough, Stanton Williams.
ADVERTISING STAFF: James E. Stahl, Manager; William Waldman, Assistant; 
Morton Garmise, Loren Kannenberg, John McGrane, William McKenna, William 
Sauvary.
CIRCULATION STAFF: WAVHnN Fin glass, Manager; Sidney Feldman, Leonard Ro­
senberg, Albert Pryce-Jones, Abe Leipzig.
REPORTERS: Margaret Griffin, Veronica Kloos, Anna Ladd, Thelma Shelley, Ger­
trude Breakstone, Jayne HcnderBon, Peter Paulus, Harold Baer, Jannette Black, Marian Malakoff, Gwen Haddock, Ruth Gustafson, Jane Miller, Roy Minot, Vir­
ginia, Siegel, William Landabcrg, Jane Livingston, Davison IronB.
TYPISTS: Lucille Jacobs, Ann Kaufman.
A Plea For Co-operation
My dear Mr. Ladcl:
From time to time, I receive anonymous letters which are 
aimed to bring to my notice conditions within the Institute 
¦which the writers think should be remedied. The person who 
criticizes should support his criticisms by giving his name and 
thereby aiding in the correction of the situation of which he 
complains. I am always willing to discuss in confidence .with a 
student or a member of the faculty any question, which, in his 
f opinion, should be brought to my consideration.
It is hardly necessary for me to speak of the unfairness of 
the person who makes charges and arouses suspicions concern­
ing people with whom we are associated, without having the 
courage to help me prove or disprove the charges.
Very sincerely yours,
THOMAS S. BAKER.
President.
The New Rushing Rules
Last Saturday the Interfraternity Council passed what is 
believed to be another new set of rushing rules. As a matter 
of fact the rules differ little from those of former years, except 
in the provision for the contacting of rushees.
After the termination of rushing season last year, a num­
ber of the representatives on the Council expressed dissatisfac­
tion with the rules. Because the rules were so unsatisfactory, 
the Council took immediate steps to formulate a plan which 
would alleviate many of the evils of the old system, and at the 
end of the year a set drawn up after much study was recom­
mended to this year’s Council. This new set embodied princi­
ples which had worked successfully at several of the largest 
universities in the country and it was honestly believed that 
the rules, if adopted, would result in better rushing conditions 
at Carnegie.
Despite the fact that the committee last year investigated 
the rushing rules of many other colleges and spent nearly a 
whole semester choosing the best points from the most success­
ful systems, the Interfraternity Council sees fit this year to dis­
regard all of this work and revert to the old rules, merely add­
ing to them a contacting period during which time none of 
the dates made for open rushing period are binding. The suc­
cess of the new contacting period can be determined only after 
the termination of the contacting season. It.is unfortunate that 
the degree of success cannot be foreseen.
In all events, the rules have been adopted and it is now up 
to the Council to see that they are enforced.
THE SURROUNDING WORLD
By JOE ADAMS
The United States will go to the polls next. Tuesday to decide who will be at its li.elm for the coming term. Each candidate will make his last attempt to sway the vot­ers of the nation to support him and his party. Herbert Hoover, feeling that the East has been well covered, lias shifted his scene of action to the middle west and plans on making speeches in many major cities. There is even a pos­sibility of his crossing the coun­try to vote at his home in Palo Alto, California, which, by the way, is in the territory where the Re­publicans need every vote they can muster. If he makes this trip the monotony of it will doubtlessly be relieved by several speeches in major cities along the route.One does not like to let an elec­tion go by without some mention of the inroads made by some minor party into the folds of the major parties. In the coming elec­tion, it is likely that the Socialist party, headed by Norman Thomas, will win a great moral victory- in that they will probably poll the largest vote ever awarded a minor party in recent years. That they will carry any one state is doubt­ful. While mentioning parties, it is evident that the Republican party’s elephant is not normal in that the period of gestation of a normal elephant is eighteen months, and the Republican ele­phant has been trying to find a so­lution to the European debt prob­lem for a much longer period and has not even given birth to an idea.Our next door neighbors in Can­ada have recently passed a new and higher tariff which will hurt United States’ manufacturers to a 
great degree. This new tariff is a preferential one which allows British goods to enter Canada un­der a much lower tariff rate than goods from other countries. The products which will bo affectod greatly are iron and steel, chem­icals, glass, tobacco, and many other items manufactured by both the United States and England. Whether or not this is a retaliation tariff is hard to say, but it may have some effect on Congress in
the future when it thinks of an­other tariff revision.
Japan seems to have plenty of money to feed and clothe an army which the rest of the world, de­clares. to be too large, while more than 200,000 of her school children are underfed. This certainly is a more important problem for Japan than the acquisition of land.
Some fourteen years ago after the Great War, three small na­tions banded together to form the Kingdom .of Jugo-Slavia. They were Serbia, Croatia and Slovenia. Today this kingdom threatens to break apart because the individual nations are dissatisfied with con­ditions. The government has al­ready blockaded part of the coast ofl Croatia, which was strongest in its revolutionary measures. Alex­ander, who is both king and dic­tator of the country, has brought Croatia from an uncertain position after the war to one of comparative stability. The world wide depression has hit Jugo-Slavia, as it has most other nations. However, on the rebound, the original small na­tions each feel as though they would be better off with' their own individual identities. If the pres­ent disturbance continues, Croatia will surely become independent and perhaps another of the states may be able to follow suit.
Albert Einstein has consented to accept the chair of Professor of Mathematical and Theoretical Physics in the newly planned In­stitute for Advanced Study which will be located at Princeton Uni­versity until its own buildings are completed. Dr. Einstein will re­main in this country to teach from October 1 to April 15 each year, beginning next fall. The Institute will concentrate its aim exclusive­ly upon quality in the selection of its students and faculty rather than on numbers and sensational investigations. The establishment of this Institute with its distin­guished faculty * should give the United States a better position in the field of intellectual and scien­tific knowledge.
Of all the expressions of amuse­
ment the snicker is "the snake in 
the grass of laughter,” said Pro­
fessor Charles G. Gaum of the Uni­
versity extension division in an 
address to the Mark Twain Asso­
ciation of New York.“Anatomically or facially it has nothing graceful about it,” he as­serted. “It has no more of a smile in it than a post office slot.”
At Detroit University students have demanded that the number of co-eds in the classes be increased or cut out entirely.
A $3,000,COO international house, dormitory for foreign students, was presented recently to the Uni­versity of Chicago by John D. Rockefeller III. in behalf of his father who gave the money for the building.
Two Lectures 
To Be Given At 
Lecture Hall
Exhibit Of Locally Owned 
Paintings To Open 
On December 14
The Department of Fine Arts of Carnegie Institute, in conjunction 
with an exhibition of International paintings owned by residents of Pittsburgh which will open today and continue through December 15, announces two lectures to be given in the Carnegie Lecture Hall. The first talk will be pre­sented by Royal Cortissoz, art critic of the New York “Herald- Tribune” on Monday evening, No­vember 7, and the second will be presented by Dudley Crafts Wat­son of the Art Institute of Chicago, on Monday evening, November 14.Since no International Exhibi­tion of paintings will be held this year, the Department of Fine Arts of the Institute has planned this exhibition of locally-owned paint­ings as a review of the thirty an­nual exhibitions since 189G. This exhibition will also give a fairly accurate account of the art of painting in Europe and America over a period of the last thirty- six years, and will be an index of the type of paintings which have been purchased by Pittsburghers for their homes during this period.There -will be about 100 paint­ings in the exhibition which were either purchased from an Inter­
national, lent by citizens of Pitts­burgh to the exhibitions, or paint­ed by Pittsburgh artists who ex­hibited in the Internationals. No. one artist will be represented by more than one painting.This exhibition is in no way in­tended or planned as a substitute for the annual International, but is one that has been in the minds of the officials of the Institute for many years, the opportune time for organizing it presenting itself this season.
Iron Age Editor 
Gives Views On 
Steel Industry
John H. Van Deventer, editor of the Iron Age, in his address before the Metallurgical Advisory Board of Carnegie last Friday evening showed that the salvation of the steel industry is for it to become distribution-minded.
The steel industry, according to Mr. Van Deventer, has been in the past a liorrib.le example of ineffi­cient distribution. With the in: crease in demand for steel in 1895 the producers gave all their atten­tion to production and the filling of the orders in sight with little or no thought towards the discovery and development of unseen re­quirements. When the slump came in 191S it was time to shift the emphasis to merchandising, but the industry, carried along by its twenty-three years of high rid­ing, didn’t begin to take notice until this last depression.Research, says Mr. Van Deven­ter, will be the right arm of the future creative merchandising of the steel industry. By this he means not only industrial research but market research. It has been almost impossible in the past be­cause of lack of detailed informa­tion to determine just, which ef­forts have been profitable. Market analysis, he says, should more ac­curately define the various su­premacy areas of various products for given purposes so that there will be less sales resistance when the product is the most fitting for a certain use. Pressure on the sale of steel where other materials such as wood and concrete are better suited can only do harm to the industry.To escape from profitless selling, says Mr. Van Deventer, no stone must be left unturned. He warm­ly recommends Mr. A. W. Robert­son’s movement for the Rehabili­tation of the Steel Industry. Now is the time for capital investment in modernization, he says, because machinery manufacturers can af-_ ford to supply time for engineering investigation and shop construc­tion at lesser prices than in all probability the future will permit. The demand for improved prod­ucts can be met only through the latest developments in methods of 
handling.
Instructor Not Man 
Named In Newspapers
The article that was published last Thursday in all the Pittsburgh newspapers stating that a Carne­gie instructor was exonerated by 
a coroner’s jury in the death of a girl killed while in his auto was a complete misstatement of facts. The man mentioned is not an in­structor at Carnegie and the ar­ticle was a confusion of both name and address. The name of the Carnegie faculty member is J. Cut­ler Andrews, an instructor in the Department of History whose ad­dress is G Olympia Place. He was confused with Homer L. Andrews, 244 Chesterfield Road, who is sec­retary of Life Underwriters Asso­
ciation.
Pi Delta Epsilon Will 
Hold Meeting This Eve.
Pi Delta Epsilon, the journalistic 
honorary, will hold a meeting this 
evening in the “Y” room at 9:00 
p. m. A number of important 
questions will be under considera­
tion and all members are requested 
to attend. An invitation is extend­
ed to any member of the honorary 
who is on the campus to be present 
at the meeting.
Rollins College 
Asks Students 
To Take Oath
Suidents Must Pledge 
Themselves To Be 
Good Students
Winter Park. Fla.—Rollins Col- lege, with the opening of its forty- eighth year this month, began the unique custom of asking her stu­dents to take a Student Matricula­tion Oath.
To this end, the first Convoca­tion of the college year was con­ducted as a dignified academic as­sembly for the purpose of adminis­tering the oath to the entire stu­dent body. At the same time, the 
faculty were asked to take a Fac­ulty Installation Oath.
The custom of administering a student oath, officials of Rollins point out, was suggested by the old Athenian Oath taken by youths of Athens upon entering civic life.Hereafter,' President Hamilton Holt announced, the student oath will be taken by all freshmen and new students, while the faculty oath will be taken by new mem­bers as they join the teaching staff.
The Student Matriculation Oath follows:I pledge myself to make the Ad- ; venture of Learning my chief ef­fort while in Rollins College, to seek the guidance and friendship of my instructors, to measure all things by truth.I pledge myself to strive for self- knowledge, self-reverence and self- control, to use wisely the new gift 
of freedom which Rollins has granted me, so that I may make itlie most of liberty without license.I pledge myself to cherish the high ideals and traditions of my Alma Mater as a noble heritage, to transmit them untarnished to those who follow me, and both now and hereafter to honor the name of Rollins among men.The Faculty Oath follows:I pledge myself to seek truth wherever truth is found, to follow truth wherever truth may lead, to teach truth and nothing but the truth.I pledge myself to achieve and hold the mastery of my chosen art or science, breaking paths bravely where I may, following humbly where I must.I pledge myself to be a good comrade to my collegeagues, to do my part cheerfully in all the needs 
of our common endeavor.I pledge myself to accord my students the same courtesy, re­spect and affection that I crave of them; to do all I can, by precept and example, to help them foster the high idealism of youth.I pledge myself to be loyal to Rollins College and her academic ideals, to abstain from all things that may impair her influence or limit her usefulness; to serve, up­hold, honor and exalt her as an in­dependent, Christian College.
Survey Reve; 
Enrollment Dr 
In Most Sehoi
New York, N. Y. (NSFA)- effect of the depression wliicl swept from the college ca much of the gay backgi against which the undergra* posed his studies has also adA ly affected college enrollmen survey of twenty-four college: universities of the country cates.
In answer to queries The New York Times officio institutions from Boston Berkeley estimated that the effect of the depression has to modulate the carefree jo campus life and to focus* th tention of students on books blackboards. The student of many of the replies indicated sold the flashy roadster and is ing second-hand books, and than ever before he is askin; scholarship aid, low-priced' d tory rooms, and a chance to his way.
An interpretation of the s tics and replies indicates a ; 
away from technical educatio ward cultural subjects. In eral, the institutions, the ei ments of which were most a ed by the depression, seemed I those located in the farming of the Middle West. Most oi 
local colleges and univert maintained their enrollment about the same figures as year, and a few Eastern in.* tions such as Amherst, Ford Harvard and Vassar repi slight increases in their stu attendance. Columbia, with estimated drop of more than 
students, reported the largest of any of the nineteen institutAt the University of Calif» the “chief effect of the (Teprej noted here is prolongation oi college period by students air registered apd return of old 
dents who once left. Enroll: of new undergraduates nevei tending before shows a tend to decrease.
Dr. Ilirig To- Attend 
Meeting At fVash.
Dr. Roscoe M. Ihrig, directc Night School courses, will at the nineteenth annual meetin the Association of Urban Un sities at Washington Universit St. Louis this Thursday and day. This is the ninth year Dr. Ihrig has represented Ci gie at these meetings.This association is made u representatives from a grout thirty institutions from large c whose purpose it is to dis questions arising from city cj tions. The subject of night sc and evening courses has been of the main sources of debat past meetings.Included among the topics will be discussed at the met are: “Some Phases of the Prf Economic Situation,” “Adult cation,” and “Interesting Tr in Higher Education.”
WELL, WELL—
Only a very small group was afforded the pleasure of seeing Mr. Orbin enthusiasticallyemulating a good old-fashioned political torchlight parade last Tuesday on the drive betweenthe Arts quadrangle and the Commons. It all came about as the climax to the - first fire the campus has harbored this year. Things started when some­body smelled smoke from an oily mop that had fallen prey to spontaneous cumbustion, in the R. O. T. C. rifle room. The sniffer dashed for Mr. Orbin since he was the nearest man with a ley. Mr. Orbin hastened to the scene attired in his customary derby hat and Hoover Cam­paign. button. The "fireman save my child” epi­sode was performed, and our hero emerged wav­ing the mop overhead.*****
SOCIAL WHIRL—
Last week-end saw the campus and adjacent territory agog with activity. Friday night a most successful Men’s Dorm dance beamed in Thistle Hall, an Arts sorority country club formal, and a Maggie Murph sorority cellar Hallowe’en dance rounded out the first night festivities. Saturday found the sororities offering a tea dance and a formal as counter attractions to the Billy Weixel football dance and the Phi Psi open house. Dur­ing the course of the evening at this'last affair we wonder where Frank Sclineller and Will Hol­loway disappeared to in fish tails.
A very enthusiastic crowd enjoyed the cider and doughnuts furnished at the Dormitory dance. The committee in charge put over a bang up dance and everyone that was present had a big time.
The football dance attracted the usual colorful crowd. Billy Weixel’s orchestra had an on night and established themselves as the most popular band so far this year. Several members from the Notre Dame band attended in uniform apd lent a certain pre-military ball touch to the affair.
IN CASE YOU HAVEN'T HEARD—
Peggy Seibert wants her picture back so she can hang with the rest of the officers in the Stu­dent Council office. Now who could have it?
After all these years Betty Cooper finally broke the ice last week and sat on the men’s side at Student Council meeting.
Mary Jane Gray is sporting a^new Sigma Nu pin. See Bill Smith for the details.
A certain rusliee borrowed a dress from a Beta Pi to wear to the Alpha Ivap formal. Can ya imagine?
Professor Lawler gave a very effective lecture to his Margaret Morrison public speaking class on how husbands speak to their wives.Mary Houser, managing editor of the Tartan last year, is convalescing in the Allegheny Gen­eral Hospital from an appendicitis operation.In the Tartan poll several potential candidates for President came to the fore: Cantor, Rogers, Bunker Hill, Jr., Battista, Utrecht, Gechler, Ritchie, Newton Baker, Coolidge, Cox, and Al Smith.*****
Harold Pressman and his colleagues at the Beta Sigma Rho House have just issued a chal­lenge to Forbes Street Beras to meet them in a bridge tournament. Harold has just completed a new system of tournament play which he hopes to see. execut­ed for the first time in the i m p e n d ing battle. It calls for sixteen men to a side, each side be­ing mad è up of four bidders who do all the bidding and mechanical playing, four kibitzers, whose duty it is to stand behind the bidders and whose privilege it is to whisper in the player’s ear, next in line come the dibitzers whose sole privilege it is to whisper to the kibitzer and fourth and last come the tibitzers who are only allowed to go tsk, tsk, tsk. Wonder what the kibitzers do when their man’s the dummy?
There’s going to be a big show in the Arts Foyer today at 12:30.
LITTLE THEATER REVIEWEnglish Ways
GRANGER IS AMERICA’S
A RAPi PO MysimBy Enf THBAVVs
WHAT TIMExGO/ 
IS IT WHEW 'VW 
THE CLOCK 
STRIKES 13?
THRILLS will 
creep on you —
LAUGHS will 
leap on you!
£ W. Avooidt
BEN ?YON 
Z*SK LITTS
JAMES G?E*SON 
IRENE LKRCE??
You’ll shiv­
er, shake 
and shudder 
with shocks —and— shout with 
laughter
By DAVID CORNMAN
Rarely can it be said that ama­
teur acting gives strength to pro­
fessional playwriting. In spite of 
what we comfortably label “the traditional irregularity of opening- night performances,” the aforemen­tioned paradox of the theaters may be found at Carnegie this week.“Anne Vroome” is the story of a sensitive, but not sentimentaliz­ing, girl. She allows Boyd Holiday, the man she loves and who loves her, to drift from her life, while her own best years crawl by in a small1 town devoid of activity for her, except caring for her parents, who live almost completely in dreams of the past. Ann and Boyd promise to wait for each other. Three years and three months later, after the death of both her parents; Ann goes to her lover— in Chicago—too late. He is to marry a beautiful girl, the very young Sheila Kent. Ann aclcnowl-i edges the hopelessness of her visit, congratulates his fiancee, and leaves. She is free, now, of any obligation. Through her father’s will, she is secure. To what pur­pose? In a rather odd final scene, we see Ann in a hotel room; she hears the Voices of her Past, jangling, wearisome. Simply, she tells them she is going on, that life is ahead of her, but her words fall short of conviction. They sound too much like unreasoning hope, which Nietzsche calls the beginning of despair.Dorothy Devlin did fine work with the relentlessly noble hero­ine, who made sacrifices a bit too coolly because "she was that kind of person, that’s all.” Her reason never is shown any clearer than that. William Roos, as Boyd I-Iali- day, the lover who didn’t wait quite long enough, reminded us that it appears more difficult for young men to make unembarrassed 
(stage) love than for maidens of equally tender years. Mr. Roos has poise, but it must be said in his behalf that some of his abashed tones might be forgiven anyone who found, himself saying Mr. Beach’s grotesque romantic lines,
which run to . . . “you are a sprite strayed from some distant wood­land” . . . and things like that.Ann’s father, Withred (Raymond M. Neyhart) was well-drawn, a be­loved parasite, placed with confi­dent aged petulance. Dora, his wife, also keenly played, achieved a whiny senescence in Harriette Weiler. Gertrude, a kindly sister- in-law (Henrietta Siskin) held the audience, a truly lovable fool; she appeared as a cross between Zasu Pitts and Beatrice Lillie.Edward Kelly, as the intolerant older brother Fred, who brutally rushed his mother’s funeral in or­der that Ann might not attend it, was convincingly sniffy, smug and hypocritical. Jean Dahl, as an am­bitious, self-centered older sister, made good use of pantoriiime in her characterization. Donald Gal­lagher, as Roderick Dean, friend of Boyd’s; hadn’t much to do but look like a world-weary bachelor, and— with enviable, stage presence—he did it;
In spite of earnest work by the cast, the play drags. Its incident 
is continuous, but unsteady, never highly pointed. Mr. Beach presents situations which in themselves are moving, but dulls the edge with mediocre dialogue. In one scene, at Boyd’s ultra-modern penthouse (technical department please take a well-earned bow) we see a party which looks like the cinema did to the Younger Generation in 1925, at which time this play was brought out. Mj\ Beach has also written a play called “The Goose Hangs High” about this same Y. G. This work is in wide use as a High School class play. Something 
tells us he should have kept the party scene in that play. It has 
little justification dramatically, and slows the tempo.Scene V.—A reunion of Boyd and Anne in her father’s home, after three years separation, goes on for nearly twenty minutes, during at, least half of which time the audi­ence learns nothing it hasn't al­ready figured out for itself. There­fore, an orchid to the players, and to Mr. Beach (Lewis, by the way, not Rex) try again.
By PROF. LEO T. LAWLER 
This series of ndtes on English 
is being introduced to Tartan 
readers for the purpose of arous­
ing further interest in their lan­
guage, and of endeavoring to answer some of their queries about it.
One of the most difficult of standards to set up and maintain is that of good usage in English. The employment of language as the vehicle of thought is so varied that differentiating between the good and the bad is troublesome. If the standard is arbitrary, it is unsatisfactory; if it is left to the whim or fancy of the speaker or writer, it may lead to the accept­ance of that which is obscure. It is, therefore, not enough to hold as a rule that language has served its purpose, or that ‘‘you hear it every day,” or that “you got my meaning.” The choice between the correct and the incorrect must bo based on something more definite.
"The circle of the English language,” said Sir James Mur­ray, “has a well-defined center, but no discernible circumference.” This center is made definite by the logic and the science of the gram­mar. Next to it, of course, is the usage accepted by reputable authors and educated people. Out­side of these two defining influ­ences is considerable uncertainty; Probably the best standard ob­tainable here is that of good taste, an intangible feeling that a use is good or bad. Good taste, for ex­ample, would have saved consid­erable embarrassment to the com­panions of a prospective feminine golfer who invaded a public links having as part of lier attire liigli- heeled shoes. "Here, you,” said the ground-keeper, “You can’t go on to the course with those heels.” ?"What's wrong with them?” she replied; “one’s my husband, and’ the other is my brother.”
FULTON
"IF EVER I SAW 
a picture of content, it’s you when 
you’re puffing on a pipeful of 
Granger. And I admit I like the 
fragrant aroma myself.”
It is surprising how much better 
a pipe tastes when it is filled with 
tobacco that’s made especially for 
pipes. And the Granger package 
is just right, too.
Printing Department 
Gives Design Exhibit
Mechanical Engineers 
Hold Second Meeting
At the second meeting of the 
Carnegie Mechanical Engineering 
Society last Thursday, Prof. S. B. 
Ely and Prof. Willibald Trinks dis­
cussed the benefits of joining the 
society as students.
It was explained that the under­
classmen are sometimes reluctant 
to attend the meetings and gain 
the full benefit of a program which 
is as valuable to the students as 
any scheduled course in the class­
room.
The students were urged to be 
present at the next meeting which 
is to be held in room 10, Machin­
ery Hall, Friday at 2:30 p. m. In­structors of fhe Department of Mechanics will permit their groups to attend the meeting at this time. A prominent sales engineer of the Pittsburgh Water Company will speak on some of the less techni­cal aspects of his experience.The meeting of the C. • M. E. S. so far this year have been for the purpose of welcoming sophomores and juniors into the society as members.
© 1932, 
L1CCKIT& Myeiu Toaicco Co.
The toi) that's rig I and the p age iiiaCs}
The Printing Department is ex­
hibiting more than 600 specimens 
of typographical layout in adver­
tising design. These specimens 
were submitted for the New York 
Times’ advertising contest which 
was held recently. The various 
designs were loaned to the Depart­
ment of Printing and will be ex­
hibited from October 31 to Novem­
ber 6.
The purpose of the. contest was 
to stimulate interest in the possi­
bilities of small newspaper adver­tising. It is felt that this medium of attracting public attention is not fully appreciated. Prizes of $100, $50 and $25 were awarded. Among the specimens were several submitted by Carnegie students. Mr. Harry L. Gage of the Mergen- tlialer Linotype Co. was one of the judges. Mr. Gage was the first head of the Department of Print­ing.
The specimens, mounted on large beaver-board sheets, are hung in Room 139 Industries. They 
may be viewed by those interested at any time except Wednesday.
