The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 38 No. 55CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, APRIL 24, 1945
Alcoa Increases 
Endowment Fund
The Aluminum Company of 
America has made a grant of $200,-
000 to the endowment fund of Car­
negie Institute of Technology to 
establish a professorship of light 
metals in the Department of Metal­
lurgical Engineering. This an­
nouncement was made yesterday at 
a luncheon at the Duquesne Club 
attended by officials of Carnegie 
Tech and the Aluminum Company.
According to President Robert E. 
Doherty of Carnegie Tech, the es­
tablishment of the Aluminum Com­
pany of America Professorship of 
Light Metals is a most significant 
step in the development of scientific 
knowledge of light metals and in 
the field of metallurgical engineer­
ing education. Dr. Doherty added 
that this Professorship will extend, 
through research, scientific and en­
gineering knowledge of fundament­
al importance, and by thus strength­
ening the staff of the Department of 
Metallurgical Engineering at Car­
negie Institute of Technology, it will 
enable the institution to render 
more effective service in the educa­
tion of men for the industry.
In providing the professorship of 
light metals, Roy A. Hunt, Presi­
dent of Aluminum Company of 
America, pointed to the close asso­
ciation of his Company and Car­
negie Tech for many years as well 
as to the help rendered to Alumi­
num Research Laboratories by the 
Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh.
Mr. Hunt also said the grant is 
being made because the Aluminum 
Company is appreciative not only 
of the work being done by the De­
partment of Metallurgical Engineer­
ing in its regular courses but par­
ticularly of its development of a 
night school which has made it pos­
sible for many young men to gain 
an education while working.
The gift of the Aluminum Com­
pany takes Carnegie Institute of 
Technology another long step to­
ward the ultimate goal of its En- 
downment Fund Drive. If by July 
1, 1946, the sum of $4,000,000 has 
been raised from other sources, the 
Carnegie Corporation of New York 
will contribute $8,000,000 to the per­
manent endownment funds of the 
institution.
Doherty Speaks Friday 
Before Theta Xi Frat
President Doherty will be the 
guest speaker at the annual Home­
coming and Founders’ Day Party of 
Theta Xi Fraternity on Friday, 
April 27, at 6:30 P. M. in the Fort 
Pitt Hotel. Dr. Doherty will speak 
on Post War Planning for Frater­
nity members. Other administrative 
and faculty members of Carnegie 
Tech as well as National officers of 
Theta Xi will take part in the pro­
gram.
Toastmaster of the occasion will 
be Herbert W. Graham, Director of 
Metallurgy and Research for the 
Jones and Laughlin Steel Company. 
The party marks the fraternity’s 
eighty-first year of existence.
Ann Shivley Crowned ßecudu Rule*. Gaà*teqie 
C. I. T. Bond Queen
Stamp Total $47,735
Finishing in a blaze of glory, the 
Carnegie Tech war stamp drive was 
brought to a triumphant close last 
Friday with the highly successful 
voodoo hex on Adolph. The final 
count revealed that the combined 
bond and stamp sales for the cam-
Coronation Ball Makes Big Hit; 
Frederickson Wins Queenship
Last Saturday night the Coronation Dance was held in the Gym. It 
was held in honor of the graduating Seniors in place of the annual closed 
Senior Dance. The crowd spent an enjoyable evening dancing to the strains 
of Bernie Armstrong’s orchestra.
The evening started at eight-thirty with the crowd pouring in from 
Thistle Hall, still speculating about who the winners would be. Their 
curiosity was satisfied when the winners were announced at ten-thirty 
by Ralph Happe who acted as Master of Ceremonies of the Sing. Chi Omega 
was awarded the Women’s Cup while Kappa Alpha Theta received Hon­
orable Mention. Sigma Alpha Epsilon won the Men’s Championship.
Crowning
Bond drive chairman
paign totaled the almost unbeliev­
able sum of $47,735.50, enough for
13 ambulances with $3,145.50 left 
over toward the $3,430.00 necessary 
for a fourteenth. Mr. Parisi, direct­
or of the C.I.T. war committee, and 
Iris Kwal head of the student am­
bulance committee deserve highest 
continued on page 7
Intramural Softball 
Includes Four Teams
The Intramural Softball League 
of the Spring Semester started on 
Monday, April 23. The schedule has 
been arranged so that the league 
will continue through May 9. This 
allows a few extra weeks for post­
ponement in case of bad weather. 
The league is informal since the 
main competition will start in the 
summer semester. This league will 
give the teams a chance to get their 
playing in top shape for the Sum­
mer League. Four teams have enter­
ed in the league. There are two 
teams made up entirely of frater­
nity men; Beta Theta Pi and Delta 
Tau Delta. Sigma Alpha Epsilon and 
Cameron Hall have combined their 
men into one team. The independ­
ents have entered a team and called 
themselves merely the M. O. V.
The games will begin at 5 P. M. 
The teams will be allowed ten min­
utes after this time to show up be­
fore forfeiting the game. Each team 
must have at least seven men on 
the field to start the game. The 
games will be played in the Bowl, 
and there will be two diamonds 
marked out to allow two games to 
be played at once. One field is down 
near the field house, and the other 
is on the Bowl near the back of 
Margaret Morrison. The winning 
team will receive certificates in­
stead of a cup from the Intramural 
Board since the league is informal.
Chi Omegas, S. A. E.’s 
Win Greek Sing Cup
On Saturday night at seven 
o’clock, the annual Greek Sing was 
held in Thistle Hall. The lucky win­
ners were Chi Omega and Sigma 
Alpha Epsilon. Kappa Alpha Theta 
was given honorable mention.
The program started off with the 
smooth singing of Kappa Kappa 
Gamma. Swing Low Sweet Chariot, 
Body and Soul, and Kappa Kisses 
were their choice of songs. The Tri 
Delts in striking black dresses then 
gave their rendition of Leading Fra­
ternity Lane, Under the Moon, and 
Accentuate the Positive. Delta Tau 
Delta was the first group of men to 
suffer under the ever-listening ears 
of the judges. They made their bow 
with Night and Day, Summer Time, 
and The Delta Shelter. Another 
pretty picture of all black then came 
up in the form of the Delta Gam­
mas. Their voices filled the air with 
the well-loved Stormy Weather and 
a Delta Gamma Chant. The cup- 
winning girls and songs were the 
next on the program. Of course, this 
means the Chi Omegas and their 
singing of Loyal We Will Be, There 
Are Such Things and Holiday for 
Strings. The soloists for this group 
were the Beta Theta Pi’s with Night 
and Day, Gamma Nostra and The 
Froggy Song. Kappa Alpha Theta 
in a rainbow of suits followed in the 
Betas’ footsteps. They were given 
honorable mention for Yesterday, 
The Touch of Your Hand and Theta 
Lips. The Medley from Porgy and 
Bess and Sigma Kappa Song were 
their bid for the loving cup. Sigma 
Alpha Epsilon with a quartet was 
the last of the boys to try out. With 
the assistance of Imogene Grove at 
the piano giving them their pitch 
they swung into a ditty called Mr. 
Moon-a-man. After this short little 
tune, they surprised everyone with 
a smooth and hillbilly arrangement 
of the old faithful—You Are My 
Sunshine. They finished their little 
program with The Wiffenpoof Song. 
Judging from the applause, they 
were sure to win the cup. Last but 
not least we had the girls of Alpha 
Epsilon Phi in their long black and 
white gowns singing Tech Has Gone 
to War, Once a Lovely AEPhi, and 
Waiting. From here the audience 
drifted on to the Coronation Ball.
of the Senior Queen 
took place at eleven o’clock. At 
that time, the queen, preceded by 
her court and two pages carrying 
the crown and gift, marched down 
the dance floor to the throne.
After her coronation, Jane Fred­
erickson was presented with a bou­
quet of carnations and a gift. The 
queen’s court included Peggy Cole, 
Pat Delehaunty, Doris Fast, Sue
Queen Jane
Scott, Rea Simon Elias, and Mar­
jorie Volk. The Faculty members 
present at the dance were Mr. and 
Mrs. Hawkes, Dr. and Mrs. Gregg, 
Mr. and Mrs. Austen Wright and 
Dr. Lang and Dean Yon.
The gymnasium was divided into 
two parts for the dance. The middle 
of the floor was reserved for the 
dance floor and the orchestra. 
Around the sidelines were tables at 
which the tired and weary dancers 
could rest themselves.
The Black Cat was open to serve 
cokes and other refreshments.
Pittsburgh Playhouse 
Gives Final Production
The final production of the cur­
rent season at the Pittsburgh Play­
house will be “A Party,” to be pre­
sented from May 8 through May 26.
A large cast will include Shirley 
Brown, Audrey Botkin, Walter Cree, 
Helen Wayne Rauh, Charles Het­
tinger, Jerrie Haines, Sue Crobaugh, 
George McCafferty, Meyer Berger, 
Paul (Tiny) Fisher, Maryan Mc­
Clain, Joe Shenkan, Pepe Walk, 
Harriet Rosenberg, John Trent, and 
Frank Doak.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, APRIL 24, 1945
Cditori. A'uncUaiA,Student Council
Big Things For Next Year
At the last Student Council meeting of the semester two proposals very 
vital to campus life in future years were hotly discussed and in the end 
unanimously passed by the student governing body. Both of these meas­
ures, if carried out with as much fervor as that which has been exhibited 
in advocating them, will very definitely contribute to the creation of that 
better CIT of the future for which we intend to keep fighting.
The most important of the proposals discussed was the Honor System 
Plan which has been worked out by the Student Faculty Liaison Com­
mittee of the Engineering School. This plan provides for a system whereby 
the students of Margaret Morrison, Fine Arts, and Engineering will be 
treated in a manner worthy of college men and women. Under it, students 
at the Junior and Senior levels will take examinations without the super­
vision of their instructors. Their honesty rather than their lack of it will 
be assumed. The proponenents of the plan first considered it because they 
felt that there was entirely too much cheating being done on quizzes at 
Carnegie. They feel that this plan will remedy that evil by removing the 
incentive for cribbing from those people who get quite a bit of fun out of 
putting something over on their instructors. They also feel that if students 
are given the responsibility for their own honesty and must depend on 
their consciences rather than on the hawk eyes of their professors to pre­
vent them from cheating, much less cribbing will be done. They believe 
that a feeling of personal pride in the abstinence from dependence on hid­
den notes will give the student a pleasure which will supplant the feeling 
of exultation obtained from foiling his professors. They think that a spirit 
of much more friendly cooperation between student and teacher will be 
felt if the teacher does not appear before the student in the role of task­
master and guard. We heartily endorse the beliefs of the Student Faculty 
Liaison Committee, but we feel that there is one difficulty that may arise 
in the attempt to establish the Honor System on campus. If, in the first 
trials of the system, the students do not prove themselves worthy of the 
trust the professors are willing to place in them or if the professors take 
advantage of the clause in the plan which enables them to refuse to try 
the system, all the work the Liaison Committee has done to get the plan 
accepted will have been in vain. It is up to the students and the faculty 
to take up the work where it has been left off by the Student Faculty 
Liaison Committee and to make the Honor System and all the advantages 
it offers a permanent institution on campus.
The second big proposal for change in campus life which was passed by 
Council is the return to the traditional freshmen regulations which used 
to make the freshman year so exciting for newcomers at Carnegie. The 
Council decreed that these regulations should go into effect again in the 
fall. The dinks, the armbands, and the other frosh customs have meant a 
lot to students of past years and their reinstitution marks a definite return 
to peace time campus life. If the plans proposed by Council are carried out, 
the re-instatement of the regulations wTill also mean an improvement in 
pre-war campus existence, for the ordeals which the freshmen will now 
have to go through will be even tougher and more fun than their tradi­
tional troubles were. The Council has done a fine piece of work in revising 
and re-instituting the regulations. But the success of the Freshman regula­
tions program depends just as much on your willingness to put your time 
and effort into making it worthwhile as does the success of the Honor Sys­
tem. You must be willing to do your own part by making the scared little 
Frosh sing and by turning them into the court when they violate regula­
tions. Remember only you can enforce the laws that will give them a lot 
of fun and do them good too!
In these, the first two of the many innovations which will be made at 
Tech in the future, you have been given a chance to prove that you as 
Techites are willing to expand the effort which is required to make post­
war Carnegie a better school. C. H.
fOpinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the 
Itaff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not 
to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Scbenley Park, Pittsburgh 1», Pa.
PHONS MAYFLOWER 2600PHONE SCHENLEY Utl
After Office Hours Call
Editor-in-chief ........................SC. 6519
Business Manager..................EM. 9424
MMUmriD FOB NATIONAL ADVSHTISINO BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publisher* Representative 
420 Madisom Avb. New York. N. Y.
Vol.3.8 N 58CA8R N 420 tMiui * E3R GR3R.lI.8 
Entered u matter In the Pittsburgh Post Office ander the Aet of Msreh S. 187».
Published weekly daring school year, except holidays ana examination periods.
Subscription Price SI.10 per yeai.
Editor-in-chief ....................................................................................................... Clara Herron
Business Manager ....................................................................................... Harold Gottesman
Managing Editor .......... ...................................................................................... Augie Binder
News Editor ............................................................................................... Mary Jane Horridge
Copy Editor ...................................................................................................................... Boo Girts
Reporters: Audrey Wilkins, Audrey Hobe, Tom Bokman, Marie Falkenhagen, 
Betty Jane Kreimer, Camilla McCullough, Ann Daniels.
Seventy-first Meeting 
April 11, 1945 
The meeting was called to order at 5:00 
p.m.
Present: Messrs. Aisenberg, Binder,
Herrmann, Lerman, and Straka. Misses 
Bauer, Emmel, Haushalter, Irwin, Loeffler, 
and Swaney.
Constitution Committee:
Mr. Lerman moved that the following 
changes be made in the Constitution: 
Article V, Section I (a) Subject to ap­
proval of the Director of the Division of 
Student Personnel and Welfare.
Article X, Section I (a) Subject to ap­
proval of the Executive Board.
By-Laws
Article II, Section IX, Part IV. Sub­
ject to approval of Director of Student 
Personnel and Welfare.
Article II, Section I. The President of
Student Council shall appoint ................
election; all committee chairmen are sub­
ject to the approval of Student Council.
Motion carried.Social Committee:
Senior Dance.
Mr. Aisenberg requested that all the 
members of Council secure Senior Dance 
tickets from Miss Werner.
The following girls were chosen as 
members of the Senior Court:
1. Peggy Cole
2. Pat Delehaunty
3. Rea Simon Elias
4. Doris Fast
5. Jane Frederickson
6. Sue Scott
7. Marjorie Volk 
Social Calendar
The Social Calendar for next year is 
being made up by Mr. Aisenberg to be 
published in the Plebe Bible. Any activ­
ity wishing to petition for dates for next 
year should hand their petitions to Mr. 
Aisenberg.
Summer Activities
Mr. Herrmann moved that the Council 
approve summer activities for the en­
gineers on campus.
Motion carried.
Dorm Curfew
Mr. Lerman moved that a recommen­
dation be sent to Mrs, Yon granting 
dormitory girls a 1:30 permission Friday 
and Saturday nights beginning next fall 
term.
Motion carried.
War Bond Committee f
Miss Garland moved that the War Bond 
Committee be permitted to hold the 
crowning of the Bond Queen and a Min­
iature Spring Carnival on Saturday, 
April 21, 1945, from 3:00 to 6:00 in the 
Sylvan Theater, weather permitting, or 
in Thistle Hall in event of bad weather.
Motion carried.
Publications Committee:
Mr. Lerman submitted election reports 
from publications:
Tartan
Editor-in-chief.........................Clara Herron
Managing Editor.....................Augie Binder
News Editor and Personnel Manager..
...................................Mary Jane Horridge
Copy Editor.......................Betty Lou Girts
Business Manager___Harold Gottesman
Circulation Manager .'.............Sam Marcus
Special Committee:
The Special Committee Chairman was 
instructed to handle suggestions from the 
Student Body concerning the new can­
teen.
Mr. Lerman reported that the Inn and 
Grill will be closed for Storage, the Can­
teen will be torn down, and the Com­
mons will be reopened as a combined 
Cafeteria and Canteen.
Respectfully submitted,
Barbara Irwin, Secretary.
Seventy-second Meeting 
April 19, 1945 
The meeting was called to order at 
5:00 p.m.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Constitution Committee
Mr. Lerman moved that the following 
revisions be made in the Constitution:
Article IX, Section I a .......... Add
..........; or in case of referendum (of an
amendment).
Part 2 of the By-laws: The executive 
committee shall consist of the President, 
Vice President, and Secretary of Student 
Council, and a Faculty Advisor.
Section IX, Part 3 of the By-laws: 
Period after meeting.
Motion carried.
Regulations Committee:
Because of a marked interest and con­
cern that has been shown by the Student 
Conference Committee, by the Carnegie 
Tech student body, and by the Student
Council in resuming Freshman Regula­
tions and Traditions, the Freshman Reg­
ulations and Orientation Committee has 
been organized under the stipulation of 
the Student Council Constitution.
The purpose of Freshman Regulations 
and Orientation has been discussed by the 
Committee and they feel that if these 
Freshman Regulations and Traditions 
could be resumed it would:
1. Help upperclassmen to become ac­
quainted with the incoming fresh­
men.
2. Would make freshmen feel more a 
part of Carnegie Tech and would 
acquaint them with the traditions 
that belong to Tech.
3. Would give the freshmen a class 
spirit that would bind them together 
and would last throughout their 
college years.
4. The traditions would not be lost 
and discarded.
Therefore, The Freshmen Regulations 
and Orientation Committee suggests to 
Student Council that they move that the 
Executive Board of Carnegie Institute of 
Technology consent to the resuming of 
Freshmen Regulations and Orientation, 
as they are stated in the 1942-43 Carne­
gie Tech Handbook, to begin on October
1, 1945, with the following changes, ad­
ditions, and revisions:
Section 1. Classifications
Additions (c) Upon request, discharged 
veterans returning as freshmen may par­
ticipate in Freshman Regulations.
Section 2. Period of Regulations
Revision (1) Freshman Regulations 
shall be applicable from the fiist day of 
registration until the freshman passes 
with a minimum score of 70% the Tradi­
tions Exam, administered by the Alpha 
Phi Omega and Cwens, under the direc­
tion of the Freshman Regulations and 
Orientation Committee.
Section 3. Regulations
Revision and Addition
3. Identification symbols.
(b) Freshman girls will be re­
quired to wear Tech dinks 
designating their respective 
schools.
4. Freshmen may use the Senior 
Walk.
8. Freshmen girls may not use the 
right-hand stairways in MMCC. 
PENALTIES
Freshmen that persist in violating these 
regulations will be turned in by upper­
classmen to the Freshmen Regulations 
and Orientation Committee. If this is 
the Freshman’s first offense, he will be 
given a warning, and his name will be 
held on record. He will have his passing 
grade in the Traditions Exam raised 5%. 
If this Freshman appears before the Com­
mittee a second time, his name will be 
held for appropriate punishment on 
Freshman Fun Night, and his passing 
grade will be raised another 5% for the 
Traditions Exam. If this same Freshman 
appears a third time before the Com­
mittee and has been purposely violating 
the Regulations, the Committee may 
have the right, if they see fit, of taking 
away this freshman’s eligibility to join 
any organization, sport or activity at 
Tech for two semesters. If the offense is 
such that it is worthy of severe punish­
ment, the Committee may, at its discre­
tion, take away the Freshman’s privilege 
of joining an Honorary while enrolled at 
Carnegie Tech.
FRESHMAN FUN NIGHT
Freshman Fun Night will be an all­
school gathering sponsored by Student 
Council and planned by the Freshman 
Regulations and Orientations Committee. 
The purpose will be to acquaint the up­
perclassmen more fully with the fresh­
men and to have the freshmen who vio­
lated the regulations do some task to 
clear their record. This event will be 
held soon after the Traditions Exam has 
been given and Freshmen Regulations 
are terminating. Penalties will be in­
flicted only by the Fi'eshmen Regulations 
and Orientations Committee and only on 
Freshman Fun Night and no physical 
hazing will be permitted at any time 
during the Regulations period.
Motion carried. '
Social Committee:
Mr. Aisenberg moved that the Council 
grant Cwens permission to hold an All- 
School Dance March 16, 1946 from 8:30 
to 12:00 in Thistle Hall.
Mr. Aisenberg moved that the Council 
grant Women’s Guild permission to have 
an All-School Dance November 17, 1945 
from 9:00 to 1:00 in Thistle Hall.
Mr. Aisenberg moved that the Council 
Continued on page 7

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, APRIL 24, 1945THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, PITTSBURGH, PA.
44444444444444444 2 1945 0Ma d4d dis
One of the Profs.
You will recognize her by her 
erect bearing, by her tailored 
clothes, by the expressive hands 
with which she molds tone in the air 
as a sculptress molds clay. You will 
never forget her if you have seen 
her encouraging prospective pub­
lic school music teachers with her 
common-sense advice; trying to 
conquer in her speech students that 
terrible curse, the Pennsylvania 
“r”; demonstrating the way to get 
“stuff” into choral conducting; or 
leaning on the window sill in her 
office with a cigarette dangling in 
her right hand and a far-away look 
in her eyes.
In 1921 Pitt’s music department 
suddenly found itself on Carnegie 
Tech’s doorstep after a lightning de­
cision made by the boards .of direc­
tors of both Pitt and Tech. Some of 
the teachers, including Miss Huldah 
Jane Kenley, were unhappy about 
the unexpected transfer; they re­
mained miserable until they discov­
ered that Tech liked them and that 
they liked Tech. Now Miss Kenley 
confesses that she knows she has 
enjoyed teaching here more than 
she would have at any other school. 
(One orchid to C. I. T.)
Miss Kenley has studied at Earl- 
ham College, the University of Chi­
cago, and the University of Pitts­
burgh; she has an A. B. degree. As 
Assistant Professor of Music, she 
has been teaching elementary music 
education, voice, speech, and choral 
conducting. Three of the activities
Schwartz Becomes 
Theta Tau President
On Sunday April 8, Nu chapter 
of Theta Tau, the national profes­
sional engineering fraternity elect­
ed the following officers to lead it 
for the coming semester: Benjamin 
L. Schwartz, Regent; Harold R. Got- 
tesman. Vice-regent; Irwin M. 
Aisenberg, Secretary.
On the following Tuesday, for­
mal initiation into the fraternity 
was held at Carnegie Union for the 
men pledged this semester. Those 
initiated were:
Andrew J. Pepper 
Paul F. Schucker, Jr. 
Wendell L. Minor 
Dale A. Wright 
Joel Bigelman 
Edward J. Vidt 
Carlo F. Martino 
David L. Nicol, Jr.
Thomas J. Hall 
Richard T. Huntoon 
Karl B. Weber, III 
Millard F. Brown, Jr.
David E. Fleck 
Robert C. Straka, Jr.
These men, members of the Soph­
omore and Junior classes, have, like 
the other members of the fraternity, 
merited the honor of election by 
their distinguished performance in 
scholarship and activities.
. . . Miss Henley
which have given her the most sat­
isfaction since she has been on 
Tech’s campus were: starting the 
Christmas Chapel tradition, found­
ing the In-and-About Pittsburgh 
Music Educator’s Club, and organ-
the fun of life. She won’t plan much 
—instead will just let things hap­
pen.
Miss Kenley would be remember­
ed here at Tech if she had done 
nothing but convince students of the 
soundness of her philosophy. It is, 
basically: (1) know what you can 
do; (2) know what you want to
do; $) do it; (4) forget what any­
one else may think of what you are 
doing. As for her pet hates, she 
doesn’t have time to do much hat­
ing; her chief enjoyment is just liv­
ing. There are so many interesting 
things to see and do, and she’s go­
ing to spend from now on “seeing 
and doing.”
izing and directing an English 
Madrigal Choir. Thanks to her, Tech 
had the distinction of being the first 
college to have a choral group spec­
ializing in the singing of Elizabeth­
an madrigals.
She is a charter member of Alpha 
Mu chapter of Sigma Alpha Iota, a 
women’s national professional 
music fraternity, and has been a 
faculty advisor of the chapter ever 
since her initiation. She was award­
ed the SAI ring of excellence in 
recognition of her work on national 
and state committees of SAI and in 
the national and state activities of 
the National Music Educator’s Con­
ference.
This year is the last year that 
Miss Kenley will be on campus, ^he 
wants to indulge that wanderlust 
which was responsible for the al­
ready noted far-away look. First, she 
plans to go to the Carolinas to live 
in the Blue Ridge Mountains for a 
while. After that . . . well, that’s
os ms Avb.mNe
PITTSBURGH
203 FIFTH AVENUE
Open Monday and Saturday Evenings
417-10 East Ohio St., N. S. 6223 Frankstown Ave. (E. Liberty) 
Open Monday, Wednesday, Friday and Saturday Evenings
1202 MARKET ST., WHEELING 
Open Monday Evenings until 9:00
How about a breather?... Have a Coca-Cola
... or refreshment joins the game
Everybody welcomes the moment when refreshment joins the 
party. Ice-cold Coca-Cola is one of the good things of life that 
belongs in your family refrigerator. Next time you shop, don’t 
forget Coca-Cola ... the drink that has made the pause that refreshes 
a national custom—a friendly moment on the sunny side of things. 
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN TUESDAY, APRIL 24, 1945
Dirt; Colymn
Again we roll out our dusty Cor­
ona, plop down in one of those chairs 
that are about as soft as the seats 
in the Little Theatre, wipe the per­
spiration from our under-slung 
brow and make an honest attempt 
(you know us!) to round-up what’s 
what and who’s who from Forbes 
Street to the Park. Since this is the 
last Dirt Colyum of the year, we are 
not going to give the scandal only. 
This is going to be a round-up of 
interesting items in the world of 
books, music and the theatre. All in 
all, this column will be the pot­
pourri of what you’d hear if you 
listened to the more intelligent con­
versations in the Canteen or if you 
stopped guzzling arsenic soup at the 
Grill and listened to what the peo­
ple in the next booth were talking 
about. So pull up the nearest side­
walk and prepare to be amused, 
shocked, ossified, enlightened, sur­
prised, and I’m-running-out-of-ad- 
jectives.
People in the Canteen were talk­
ing about: Those love letters that 
the pledges to Theta Tau had to 
have written and the one to Carlo 
Martino that said: “Did you know 
that when you slobbered all over 
my pan that chills ran up and down 
my spine and goose-pimples popped 
out all over the place?” . . . how 
wonderful it is that Kay Cook and 
“Smokey” Lupton have found each 
other . . . the boys who wondered 
who Pepe “Playhouse” Walk was, 
when she visited the Canteen with 
Dick Simpson . . . the confusion 
about who was going to what with 
whom when the Coronation Dance 
and Sing and Swing were merged 
. . . Bill Scherb showing a more- 
active interest in life now that Ruth 
Pivorotto is in the Art School . . . 
Tom Bokman’s cocktail party for 
the Seniors . . . Indy Jarrett and 
Natalie Williams seen dashing every­
where like mad . . . where every 
one is going to go now that Kahns 
is out of bounds for the dorm girls 
. . . that telephone conversation by 
Adeline Herlick and date: Date: 
What are you gonna wear? Adeline: 
Flowers in my hair and a snake- 
skin belt? Date: Won’t you be cold? 
Adeline: I’ll wear shoes! . . . Dotty 
King and Mike Riggle strolling non­
chalantly around campus one other 
night—real late. . . Straka, new 
prexy of ACAC . . . Karl
Weber and Phillis Petriken sunning 
themselves on the porch of the Can­
teen; Seen an hour hence: Phillis 
Petriken and Dick Herrmann sit­
ting on the grass. Hawnestly!!! . . . 
Bill Emerson turning a brilliant 
shade of scarlet as the “Art School 
Extroverts” embarrass him.
People in the Art School were 
talking about: the utter magnifi­
cence of “Oklahoma” and how lucky 
the Dramats were to have tickets 
. . . the hope that all the engineers 
and anyone left on campus will go 
to the Nixon to see Zasu Pitts in 
“Ramshackle Inn” when it comes 
here April 30th; everyone who saw 
it went away hysterical . . . Prissy 
Dodge in the new play at the Play­
house called “The Great Big Door­
step”— honestly, she’s wonderful! 
Sue Crobaugh to be in the musical 
at the Playhouse; begins the first 
week in May . . . the P. and D.’s 
exhibit in the Exhibition Room . . . 
the new play in the Little Theatre 
Continued on page 5
. . . GREEK SING AND
Dottie Hallas presented with Greek Sing trophy j Sid and Estelle
Big green streamers waving (at 
least we think they were waving)
. . . Campus kiddies convorting on 
each other’s toes. . . . Sour old 
Greek puellae and pueri (we know 
it’s wrong, but confidentially this 
reporter hasn’t gotten as far as boy 
and girl in Greek. I mean . . . 
whoops!) . . . Queens being crown­
ed like mad ... at least two of 
them. (There was an orchestra 
there too) . . . several rhumbas 
with no one rhumbaing . . . more 
men than is humanly possible . . . 
at least three butter lines (at least 
I think that was what I was stand­
ing in, but the guy next to me was 
holding a shoe coupon in his hand)
. . . No straws for my coke, but 
I’m just under-privileged ... if 
you’re still with us, here’s who was 
there . . .
Heading the list was our queen 
Jane Frederickson, and her hand­
some husband . . . Peggy Cole 
with some of the Army . . . stand­
ing couples—Jim Baney and Ruth 
Ann Young . . . Warren Snow and 
Ann Stansbury . . . Vic Elliott 
and Jeff Harkins . . . Bill Emerson 
and Peggy Thompson . . . Dick 
Landman and Elly Cohen . . . Har­
vey Steele and Eunice Somerville 
. . . Paul Castner and Helen An­
drews . . .
Doing a dandy job jitterbugging
Boris Abrams and Bond Queen 
Anne Shivley, Mike Riggle and 
Dotty King.Faculty guests enjoying themselves
was Arty Schaffer and Grant Cav- 
ender . . . Jeanne Boltey and Tom 
Bokman seemed to be having a 
wonderful time . . . likewise, for 
Augie Binder and Camilla McCul­
lough . . . Dick Stanley and Mary 
Pat Bruso laughing gaily . . .
Ginger Hall seen doing quite well
Bob Skinkle and Imogene Grove 
seemed to be having a good time 
picking notes out on the piano (even 
if it was on the stage) . . . Karl 
Weber and Phil Petrikin . . . Norm 
Zerner and Jean Knee . . . Dick 
Eschenbach and Marty Moore . . . 
Warren Helmer and Pat Igo . . .
With Queenly Bearing
for a “Cripple” with Harry Hamil­
ton . . . Mike Riggle and Dottie 
King dancing the evening away 
. . . Jack Jones and Edna Lucas 
. . . Beta prexy Carlo Martino with 
cute Muriel Stickle . . . Don Clen- 
denen and Pat Werner . . . Earle 
Young and Ann Troutman . . . 
Dale Wright and Peggy Dunlap . , ,
The Coronation
Wade Dickinson with Pat Jones 
. . . Bob Staffney and Audrey Hobe 
. . . Dave Nicol and Margaret 
Brown . . . Dick Herrmann and 
Fay Carpenter . . . Dave Saylor 
and Shirley Enslin . . . Dewey Bos­
ley and Mary Jane Horridge . . . 
Sid Berkowitz and Estelle Mattes 
. . . Bill Scherb and Ruth Pivorotto

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, APRIL 24, 1Ô45 _________THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
camera in one hand and Andy 
Gromes in the other . . . Bob Straka 
seen with Irene Surneda . . . Iris 
“Bond Drive” Kwall with Navy man 
May Festenstein . . . Eleanor Jack­
son and Frankie Creelman busy 
with the Navy . . . Dave Christy 
and Dolly Willison dancing the 
blues away . . . Harold Gottesman 
and Sallyann Rosenberg, Mike Glass 
with Pitt student Diana Dines . . . 
Mona Kahn and Bill Nichols . . . 
Dave Fleck and Tony Schlernit- 
zauer . . . Red Cooper with Renee 
Orkin . . . Bob Abelson and Marcia 
Miller . . . Herb Jackson with
Muriel Bott . . . Ralph Happe with 
Nancy Wickwire . . . Cy Hailperin 
and Sorietta Silverman . . . Elek 
Weiss and Lee Fisher . . . Bob 
Johnson and Irene Rich . . . Ted 
Caridis with Rosemary Lang . . .
Bernie Armstrong beating out 
waltzes, rhumbas, and boogy woogy 
. . . couples dancing like mad . . . 
everyone having a wonderful time 
. . . Casey Stein too busy at Kahn’s 
. . . everyone looking extremely 
pleased at the Coronation . . . Chi 
Omega’s drooling over their newly 
won cup . . . SAE’s holding forth 
in the Black Cat after winning in 
Sing singing about the villain who 
tattooed the woman!
And so we end for now with green 
streamers still waving . . . couples 
still dancing for all we know . . . 
the fitting end for a busy year. . . .
Helen Miller and Navy
Dick Teller plus date
Dirt Colyum
continued from page 4. 
called “The Famous Mrs. Fair” with 
the set that looks like an abstract 
of carsickness . . . recommended 
plays if you’re going to New York 
this summer: “Seven Lively Arts” 
with Beatrice Lillie, Bert Lahr, and 
Markova; “Harvey” with Frank Fay 
and also in the cast is Jane Van 
Duser from Tech . . . Katharine 
Cornell and Brian Aherne in “The 
Barretts of Wimpole Street” . . . 
Gertrude Niesen in “Follow the 
Girls” (in which she sings “I Wanna 
Get Married” like it has never been 
sung before.) . . . Don’t waste your 
time seeing: “Bloomer Girl,” “On 
The Town,” or Tallulah Bankhead’s 
“Foolish Notion.” . . . the Phila­
delphia La Scala Opera Company 
will be at the Mosque from May 3 
to May 9 with such stellar lights as 
Grace More, Nino Martino, Salva- 
dore Baccaloni, and Zinka Milanov 
. . . also, don’t miss Merle Oberon 
(as George Sand) in “A Song to Re­
member” at the Harris . . . the 
Playhouse isn’t going to have a 
summer season.
People in the Grill were talking 
about: Red Cooper home on fur­
lough and seen everyplace with 
Renee Orkin . . . Mai Festenstein 
also home on furlough . . . how the 
strang mixture of couples at Bok- 
man’s party resembled (slightly) 
our column of a few weeks back 
. . . how subdued everyone was at 
the flag-pole service last Friday 
morning—which goes to show that 
we do have our serious side too 
. . . Loo West and her favorite 
joke: “Who was that woman I saw 
you walking down the street with?” 
Answer: “That wasn’t a street. That 
was an alley!” . . . Camilla McCul­
lough sculpturing a birthday cake 
for Augie Binder out of plaster of 
paris or whatever it is that sculptors 
sculpt with . . . that terrific song 
called “Laura” and the run on the 
local record shops to get it . . . 
Iris Hilton working an Ouija Board 
and asking it who was going to win 
in the Sing and Swing contest: it 
said the Kappas and the SAE’s— 
letzsee! (Ed. note—Only 50% cor- 
rest) . . . Dick Moore hunting for 
someone to go to the movies with 
. . . the change that has come over 
Ruth (Don’t-call-her-“Gubee”) Gub- 
erman; she’s so refined, so quiet, 
and so un-extrovertish . . . the
interest shown in the Post Office— 
or rather the girl in the Post Office 
—RRRRuuuufTff! . . . who’s gonna 
be the Senior Queen and betting 
like mad . . . Sid Berkowitz and 
Jo Sunseri at the party the other 
night ... a long, low whistle and 
Marty (She’s married!) Crawford 
passes by . . . Judy Lambert rrruff­
ing George Baur . . . Rita Sheine- 
man dating the alumni from Pitt.
People on the Cut were talking 
about: Our flag at half mast . . . 
what kind of a president Truman 
will be . . . and being indignant 
about the “Two of the Boys” column 
last week; we feel so sorry for us— 
poor unenlightened adolescents . . . 
Danny Franks and his fabulous- 
salaried job for the summer . . . 
congratulations to the new frater­
nity and sorority prexies: Cario
Martino, Vic Elliot, Bob Marcus, 
Dave Saylor, Harold Gottesman, 
Tom Barnhart, Audrey Lawrence, 
Jean Garland, Pat Kelsey, Nancy 
Morrison, Martha Wagman, Dot 
Taylor, Melva Brooks. . . . Glo 
Goldsmith’s new play called 
Continued on page 6
CORONATION DANCE . . .
Gathered around the table
The Royal Court of Beauties
Seen around the dance floor were 
Claire Marshall and Ellie Alexan­
der . . . Ken King and Betty “Mus­
cles” Koester . . . Dick Huntoon 
and Bobby Jones . . . Dan Schach­
er and Julia Randall . . . Eddy 
Stephens with Casey McKean . . . 
Bob Sharbaugh and Lil Moravecky 
... Ed Thompson and Janet Mur­
ray . . . Helen Zimmerman with
Papa . . . Nicki Georges with Clara 
“our editor” Herron playing patty 
cake too—Hmm! ... Ed Thurston 
doing well with Hannah Estermann 
. . . Ben Schwartz and Betty Ryck- 
man . . . Duke Bolton and Scotty 
Atkinson too too busy . . . Emil 
Prieto and Peg Lelis . . . Stan 
Siegel with Irene Shapiro.
Ivan “camera” Sturman busy with
. . . Helen Miller with the Navy.
During intermission all Techites 
played April Fool on the wrong day 
. . . they thought the Coronation 
would take place . . . Ha! . . . 
Crowds seen holding forth in the 
Lounge of the Black Cat singing to 
beat the band (literally) . . .
John Seipel (p.s. T. J. has the 
mumps, and is busy looking at the 
pretty nurses in the dark, dark 
rooms at Municipal Hospital) . . . 
Boris Abrams with Bond Queen 
Ann Shively . . . Lenny Lerman 
with Ruth White . . . George 
“Four-Factor” Pake with Dorothy
Sue and escortSome fast jitterbugging

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, APRIL 24, 1945
One of the BoysLetter To The Editor
The boy wandering around cam­
pus last week half red and half 
white was not a refugee from Bar- 
num and Bailey but Tech’s own Bill 
Emerson, who had the far from uni­
que experience of falling asleep be­
neath a sunlamp. As a result he was
overdone on one side. The appear­
ance he made, however, was not in 
character for Bill is not addicted to 
clowning or making a spectacle of 
himself. In fact the opposite is clos­
er to the truth, for this blond haired, 
blue ey^d Engineer is generally 
serious, reserved, and quiet, the 
kind of a person that one immedi­
ately accepts as sensible and relia­
ble. Reliable and sensible describe 
Bill fairly well for his intelligence, 
organization and efficiency are a 
combination which makes him quite 
capable of handling most any situa­
tion.
Bill’s list of activities are proof 
in themselves of his dependability. 
He is Treasurer of Beta Theta Pi, 
ex-business manager of the Thistle, 
past President of Alpha Phi Omega, 
member of Theta Tau, and one time 
representative o n Interhonorary 
Council. However he is probably 
best known for his participation as 
a diver on Tech’s swimming team, 
where he has exhibited a great deal 
of skill, timing, and grace.
When he is not swimming or 
dancing—dancing is a favorite pas­
time—Bill may be deeply absorbed 
in the latest literature for he is an 
avid reader, one who really enjoys 
the company of a good book. Per­
haps a symphony or classical record 
is providing the background to his 
reading since Bill is also fond of 
music, both classical and modern.
Succecdiag generations of 
many of Pittsburgh’s pioneer 
families open an account at 
the Mellon National Bank as 
a matter of "family tradition 
as soon as they come of age.
MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK»
MEMBER FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION
• . . Bill Emerson
Emerson also enjoys a good philoso­
phical discussion. If not occupied 
with any of these pleasurable pas­
times, our boy of the week may be 
trespassing on the architect’s field 
by sketching floor plans and ele­
vations; or, keeping strictly to the 
boundaries of his own chosen voca­
tion of chemical engineering. He 
will graduate from this department 
in the near future and thence in­
tends to enter chemical research. As 
a full fledged Chemical Engineer, 
Bill plans to work on developing 
new chemical processes and, in the 
language of us laymen, to devise 
more economical and efficient ways 
of making chemicals.
Summing up Mr. W. G. Emerson, 
it may be said that he is one of a 
nearly extinct species for he is tru­
ly a gentleman and a scholar.
Campus Dirt
Continued from page 5 
“Strains from a Carousel” given at 
the Studio Theatre yesterday . . . 
The RRRuuufff Girls of the Week: 
Denise O’Connor, Terry Reig, Cicely 
Nicely, Casey McKean, and Lynn 
Bloom . . . Bob Casey being home 
from the Navy for a few days and 
looking wonderful.
Those lousy Art School students; 
ironic, isn’t it, they usually look for 
dates there . . . how quiet the Can­
teen will be when the rest of the 
school leaves . . . those fascinating 
pictures taken by Kenny Lipman 
. . . next year: no Eyman, no Duke, 
no “Speedie” Fast, no Dollie Willi- 
son, no Pat Delehanty, new Seniors.
Fraters and sorors were talking 
about: Rushing and who will and 
who won’t be . . . New books: 
Rosamond Lehmann’s new Book-of- 
the Month called “The Ballad and 
the Source,” Gertrude Stein’s “Wars
I Have Seen,” and “The Blue Dan­
ube” by Ludwig Bemelmans . . . 
new record albums such as the 
“Bloomer Girl” album which isn’t 
worth the money but the new 
“Fancy Free” album which is . . . 
the many Art School students who 
are going to New York this sum­
mer either to take Speeeh Courses 
at NYU or to look for work . . . 
the miniature Spring Carnival to be 
given this week on the campus . . . 
the future of fraternities and sor­
orities after the war . . . increased 
activities between fraternities and 
sororities ... whatzamatter—no 
new pinning or no new de-pinning 
. . . the new Sigma Kappa sorority.
Continued on page 8
You And Your
Out-of-Town Friends 
will find comfortable accommodations 
—at—
HOTEL 
WEBSTER HALL
Be sure to make your reservations 
well in advance, particularly for
WEEK-END VISITS 
Tech Service Men and Women Are 
Especially Welcome
4415 FIFTH AVENUE 
MAyflower 7700
Dear Editor and Other 
Possible Readers:
Over two and a half years ago— 
August, 1942, to be exact—a large 
group of ambitious freshmen, per­
haps permitting their self-confi­
dence to overcome their shrewder 
judgment, undertook to blast a war­
time trail through the vaunted 
mazes of Carnegie Tech’s Engineer­
ing School. The fate of most of these 
poor creatures is known only too 
well. Now, as the last staggering 
remnants of that intrepid band pre­
pare to drop their crutches at the 
end of the trail, a certain sense of 
frustration seems doomed to ac­
company us into the blackness of 
the outer world.
As one of these survivors, it is 
with the grasp of a drowning man 
that I write this letter. Two years 
ago the thought of such a deed was 
farthest from my mind; but then, 
as I have said, was the springtime 
of our college careers. As time has 
progressed, however, and more and 
more knowledge has diffused into 
the innermost reaches of our minds, 
until at length it has become evident 
that the pinnacle of our college ed­
ucation is about to be reached, a 
burning question nevertheless re­
mains ignited deep within some of 
us poor creatures, whose Social Re- 
lations-nurtured minds indeed ap­
preciate the philosophical and psy­
chological aspects of the problems 
involved far beyond our ability to 
solve it.
Do not think that we have been 
inactive. I, for one, have employed 
the scientific method, the engineer­
ing method, the philosophical meth­
od, and even the black magic and 
voodoo methods—all to no avail. In 
desperation, therefore, is this let­
ter written—as a final appeal to per­
mit others also to see. The agonizing 
question causing such mental tor­
ture may be stated, colloquially, 
perhaps, but nevertheless satisfac­
torily, as follows: ‘“Are they wacky 
because they’re dramats, or are they 
dramats because they’re wacky?”
It will be noticed that this prob­
lem is a cousin to the well-known 
chicken-egg controversy, and may 
indeed have no suitable solution. 
Hope, however, springs eternal, etc., 
and on this, the eve of graduation, 
as it were, desperation perhaps adds 
a little to hope. Incidentally, it will 
be observed that the “they” in the 
above statement of the problem is 
a general plural pronoun, not nec-
Lei's go to
ISALY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM CON£S
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Store« in the College 
District 
58ocl Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland 
MAIN PLANT: 
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
essarily all-inclusive. For those in 
doubt as to what is intended, ref­
erence is made to the common state­
ment concerning the use of ordinary 
footwear.
Having thus eliminated the possi­
bility of being discovered some dark 
evening pinned with Hamlet’s 
sword to the Fine Arts bulletin 
board, I shall now pass to an im­
portant subject. I fully realize that 
complete enlightenment on the sub­
ject cannot be attained; as a token 
of appreciation, however, to those 
who demonstrate a truly scinetific 
interest in the matter, I have decid­
ed that awards are in order ( or 
prizes, if for some the vulgar con­
ception of a contest is necessary). 
For the person submitting the best 
paper of 42,000 words or less, this 
milestone in cultural progress will 
be distinguished by a formal pre­
sentation of a set of well-taken notes 
from THE philosophy course of 
C. I. T. — C-765, “The Social Sig­
nificance of Creative Thought.” The 
second award (if enough enter to 
make a second award possible) will 
be an instructive pamphlet on “How 
To Make a Living Even Though a 
Philosopher.” The understanding 
must be had by all, however, that 
these awards are to be considered a 
recognition of achievement, and not 
the fundamental incentive for carry­
ing forward the interest of science. 
“Scientia gratia scientiae” as some 
would put it.
A few moments reflection will 
serve to show how deep are the 
roots of the problem, and how far- 
reaching its implications. It is to be 
expected, however, that it can only 
be after long hours of patient study 
by the best. minds Tech possesses 
that anything approximating a so­
lution can be achieved. It is to be 
hoped, however, that ultimately 
some light will shine, science will 
profit, and, incidentally, some of the 
phenomena observed on the campus 
will be more adequately explained. 
Sincerely yours,
John S. Sieger,
Chem. Eng. 45
(as distinguished from
Chemist ’45)
\ W.11 *
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, APRIL 24, 1945THE CARNEGIE TARTAN7
Bond Queen Anne Shivley and her Court
Members of Faculty 
Awarded High Honors
The degree of Doctor of Philoso­
phy was recently conferred on Mr. 
Donald M. Goodfellow by Harvard 
University.
Professor Wayne S. McKee, De­
partment of Mechanical Engineer­
ing, has been appointed a member 
of the national Program, Planning 
and Publications Committee for the 
American Society of Lubrication 
Engineers. Professor McKee is one 
of the two members chosen to rep­
resent the academic field.
Mrs. Hazel Parisi will succeed Dr. 
La Barthe as lecturer and instructor 
on textiles in the Distribution Ed­
ucation courses offered by the city 
to the public.
Professor Willis has been grant­
ed a Social Service Research coun­
cil award for further research on an 
historical project which he now has 
in progress. He will carry on re­
search under this grant in the Hoov­
er Library at Leland Stanford Uni­
versity this summer.
Dr. Owen’s article, “Your Million 
Fathers,” which originally appeared 
in the Summer 1944 Common 
Ground, has been reprinted in The 
Toronto Star Weekly. This is the 
fifth printing of this article, and 
brings its circulation to 900,000 cop­
ies. x
Student Council
Continued from page 2
grant Interhonorary Council permission 
to have an All-School Dance February 16, 
1946 from 9:00 to 1:00.
Motions carried.
Mr. Aisenberg moved that Robert 
Straka, Augie Binder, and Irwin Aisen­
berg select 4 students from, the College 
of Engineering to regulate summer social 
activities.
Any student wishing to serve on this 
Council should submit a petition signed 
by 15 Engineering students to Miss Orr 
by Friday, April 27, 1945.
Motion carried.
Scholarship:
Mr. Straka moved that the Student 
Council accept and submit John Seipel’s 
petition for a scholarship to the Commit­
tee on Financial Aid for Students.
Motion carried.
Points and Keys Committee:
Miss Loeffler moved that Student Coun­
cil grant The Chapel Choir permission to 
award Activities Keys to the following 
members:
Charlotte Wise Silver
Ainslie Bricker Silver
As there is no budget provision for Ac­
tivity Keys for the Chapel Choir mem­
bers, each girl will pay for her own.
Motion carried.
Proposed Honor System:
Mr. Aisenberg moved that Council 
recommend The Proposal for an Honor 
System to the Executive Board for their 
approval:
PROPOSAL FOR HONOR SYSTEM' 
AT CARNEGIE INSTITUTE 
OF TECHNOLOGY
I. Application
In cLasses at the Junior and Senior 
levels, if agreed upon by both the in­
structor and two-thirds of the students, 
the honor system described below may 
be applied to quizzes and examinations 
other than final examinations.
II. Operation
1. The Instructor will not be present 
in the classroom during the exami­
nation except at the beginning of 
the period to answer questions and 
at the end of the period to collect 
the papers.
Notice
This issue of the Tartan is the last 
of an almost unbroken stream of 
weekly sheets that have been coming 
out since September, 1942 without 
any interruption longer than three 
weeks in duration. This will be the 
first summer in three years that tlie 
paper has not been printed.
Home Ec. Dept. Allows 
Election Of New Course
In the last half of the second sem­
ester, 1945-46, the Home Economics 
Department will permit several 
girls who are not enrolled in the 
Department to elect Home Manage­
ment II. This course consists mainly 
of house experience in home man­
agement.
The prerequisite required for 
those who wish to take this course 
is either Household Economics I or 
a semester of Introductory Home 
Economics, which covers food prob­
lems, use of personal resources, and 
getting along with other people. 
This prerequisite may be taken the 
first semester of 1945-46.
Any girls who are interested are 
requested to see Miss Van Syckle 
and arrange with her for an inter­
view.
2. The instructor will tell the students 
where he may be found in the event 
that questions arise during the 
course of the examination.
III. Violations
1. Suspected violations are to be re­
ported by the students in confidence 
to a committee of the Student Coun­
cil or equivalent student organiza­
tion.
2. The committee will summon the 
suspected violator to a closed meet­
ing composed only of students.
3. When violations are found, the 
chairmen or other representative of 
the committee will report the extent 
and seriousness to the instructor 
concerned.
IV. The Pledge
Every student eligible to participate in 
the Honor System shall pledge in 
writing that he, on his honor, will 
neither give nor receive aid nor 
otherwise obtain information un­
fairly in an examination.
Information about the Honor System 
¡shall be included in the Student Hand­
book and the “White Book.”
Respectfully submitted,
Barbara Irwin.
SEEMILLER
DAIRY STORE
417 Craig St. 
Milkshakes and Sandwiches
War Bond Winner
Continued from page 1 
congratulations for their excellent 
work in putting the campaign so 
very far over the top. Ably assist­
ing these leaders and equally de­
serving of praise for their untiring 
help are the committee members. 
Cottie Lowry, Tommy Bokman, 
Melva Brooks, Celia Whitney, Jean 
Norris, and Gus Kermes. The entire 
campaign, from its opening on Feb­
ruary 12 to the ingenious ending on 
April 20, Hitler’s birthday, was 
highly successful, a performance 
that Tech students may well be 
proud of.
The last event of the War Stamp 
Campaign was the coronation of 
Ann Shively as Carnegie Tech bond 
queen which took place last Satur­
day at 3:45 in the Little Theater. 
Professor Parisi, head of the C.I.T. 
war committee, acted as master of
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
ceremonies, and Lt. De la Garza 
performed the actual crowning, fol­
lowing which President Robert Do­
herty officially closed the war bond 
drive. The results of the contest 
were something of a surprise, for 
Miss Shively came from behind late 
in the race to achieve an “upset” 
victory.
Final standings were:
Ann Shively .................. $21,251.25
Jean Garland ................ 11,493.75
Dorothy Caplan ............. 4,237.50
Adeline Herlick ............. 4,031.25
Bertie Rosendahl ........... 937.50
Ann Sweeney ................. 825.00
Faculty Memorial 
Loan Fund Founded
In April, 1943, the Carnegie Insti­
tute of Technology faculty estab­
lished the Faculty Memorial Stu­
dent Loan Fund in memory of its 
dead. A contribution is added to 
this fund whenever a member of 
the faculty dies, and students re­
ceiving aid from it are told of its 
origin and of the men and women 
in whose memory it has been es­
tablished. It is hoped that in this 
way the spirit of those who have 
gone on will live and thus their 
faithful service will continue.
Contributions have already been 
made in memory of Miss Grace 
Sheriff, Miss Ethel Ruthrauff, Mr. 
Hervey Hicks, Mr. Laszlo Gabor 
and Mr. Leo Lawler.
Contributings to this fund are not 
limited to the Faculty; anyone wish­
ing to do something in memory of a 
teacher who has meant much to 
him may join the Faculty in creat­
ing a worthy memorial to men and 
women who have given years of de­
voted service to Carnegie Institute 
of Technology.
RODGERS
DAIRY STORES
MILK SHAKES
Made from Pure Whole Milk for only 15c
We Do Not Use Skim Milk.
•
NEAREST STORES LOCATED
------AT-------
3905 FORBES STREET
Near Bouquet Street
4619 CENTER AVENUE 
Near Craig Street
The 
P. McGraw 
oiiw dis
Pittsburgh, Pa.

---------------------------------------------------

Bill Scherb and Doc WillisWeary engineers lunch m the Grill
Fred Schmidt
Freshman in the Music Dept., will 
sing the part of “Phyllis.” Jane has 
sung leads with the Savoyards for 
six years, having done important 
parts in Yeoman of the Guard, Rud- 
digore, Pirates of Penzance, Pina­
fore, and others.
The production director is Mar­
garet B. McCurdy, at one time a 
special student in play writing. Nor­
man and Helen Jayne Rose, former 
Tech night students, and Martha 
Eggers are in the chorus. The role 
of Chancellor is played by Burt 
Mustin, who directed Community 
Sings with the ASTP last year.
Ticket may be obtained on cam­
pus from either Jane Ginevan or 
Miss Eggers, Room 121, M. M.
8ac¿ Me
BUY MORE THAN BEFORfj
Off-campus activities
More Campus Dirt
Continued from page 6 
We’ve rattled along now for some 
time and have literally batted our 
brains out trying to figure out wot- 
in-the-’ell to write about. There 
wasn’t too much dirt this time; we 
guess that school is too nearly over 
for some for anything really excit­
ing to happen. Gotta go now. But 
we’ll be back and in the interim: 
Come in and call for Phillip Morris 
(wouldnchaluvto-) Next year, come 
September, all of us will be back 
with the usual slander, mud, and 
tongue-in-cheek sarcasm. Have a 
good summer — all you lucky 
Maggy Murphs and Art School stu­
dents and as for you poor engineers, 
all we can say is TS/CIT, TS/CIT, 
TS/CIT, TS/CIT. . .
SECURITY 
BANK NOTE 
COMPANY
REPUBLIC DIVISION
PITTSBURGH, PA.
THE CARNEGIE TARTAN________________________________TUESDAY, APRIL 24, 1945
C.I.T. Students In 
Savoyard Production
The Pittsburgh Savoyards will 
present, as their second production 
of the 1944-45 season, Iolanthe, a Gil­
bert and Sullivan operetta. Featur­
ed in this show, to be given on May
On The Campus
Jane Genevan
1 and 2 at the Twentieth Century 
Clu, are several Tech graduates and 
night School students. In the title 
role is Sylvia Sconza Schmidt; she 
plays the part of a fairy, who has 
broken fairy laws to marry a mor­
tal, and has been banished from 
Fairyland. Playing the part of her 
son is Frederick Schmidt, also a 
Music Dept, graduate, who in real 
life is her husband.
Jane Fisher Ginevan, part-time
A friendly game of bridge in the CanteenGubie refined?
