Œht Carnegie hartan
Men must-be at liberty to 
say in print whatever they 
have a mind to say, pro­
vided it wrongs no one.
—CHARLES A. DANA
VOL. 27, No. 2CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.^TUESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1932
Annual Guild 
Drive Is To 
egin Todayi
Henrietta Steinberg Is 
Chairman Of Drive 
For Membership
GUILD APPEALS TO 
STUDENTS FOR AID
Membership Tags May Be 
Purchased For Very 
Small Amount
By JANE MILLER
The annual membership drive o£ 
the Carnegie Tech Guild, women’s 
philanthropic organization, will be­
gin today and continue through 
Thursday, October 5. This cam­
paign is the only appeal that the 
¦Juild makes to the student body 
tor financial support. Anyone wish­
ing to participate in the Guild ac­
tivities and to become a member 
nay do so by purchasing a tag. 
Membership tags will cost 25 cents 
each and may be purchased from 
representatives of the Guild. The 
tags will be sold each day at noon 
n the front hall of Margaret Mor- 
•ison.
Present ¿conomic conditions of­
fer a wide field of activity for the 
Guild, provided Carnegie women 
do their part in making the drive 
a success.
Henrietta .Stinberg is chairman 
of the committee in charge of the 
membership drive. The committee 
includes Lucille Jacobs, '33, Vir­
ginia Artz, '34, Virginia Cooper, '35, 
Margaret Barr, '31, and Betty Col­
lins, '36. Ruth Meade and Ruth 
Smeltz are conducting the drive in 
the College of Fine Arts.
Each year the Women’s Guild 
undertakes a program of phil­
anthropic activities. In the past 
'ear the Guild has furnished a 
oom in the Kingsley House, a local 
ettlement house, supplied milk to 
estitute families, given presents 
j poor children at Christmas, and 
ontributed to other worthy causes. The officers of the Carnegie Suild for the present school who re elected last spring are as lows: Dorothy Sliults, Margaret •rrison, '34, president; MaVie fortlial, Margaret Morrison, '34, ».e president; Ruth Sclimelz, irgaret Morrison, '35, secretary; d Margaret Barr, Margaret Mor­on, '35, treasurer.
ten’s Glee Club 
Will Be Feature
ks a feature of Student Night, 
ursday night, at the First Bap- ; Church, Bayard street and lefield avenue, the Men’s Glee b will entertain. The pro- ,m which begins at 8 o’clock will aiso feature several selections by 
ihe University'oE Pittsburgh Band. Uarnegle students who have been Invited to this reception will have in opportunity to become better ac- luainted with each other and the religious work of the church. New students are especially urged to at­tend this annual reception.The Men’s Glee Club held its first meeting last Sunday for the pur­pose of organizing.All men interested in singing in 
the club should report at the next rehearsal for tryouts so that the lumber of men to be retained for ill the trips may be determined as oon as possible. Rehearsals are teld on Sunday afternoons at 3:00 ’clock and Wednesday evenings at :00 o’clock in Room 157. College if Fine Arts. The time for these ehearsals may be changed to suit le convenience of. the members.Wilfred Uffelman, manager, 
Htes that there is a great need ¦^pors because of the vacancies y men graduating last year, silver key is awarded those have credit for two years’ serv- ind a gold key for those who credit for four.
All Colleges Will Hold 
Freshman Elections 
Tuesday, October 18
Petitions Must Be Filed 
By Candidates Not 
Later Than Fri.
ALL-CARNEGIE HOP 
TO BE HELD DEC. 2
Assistant Secretaries For 
Student Council To Be 
Elected In M.M.C.C.
On Tuesday, October 18, the 
freshman classes in the Colleges 
of Engineering, Fine Arts, and 
Margaret Morrison will elect their 
class officers. The election is be­
ing held at this time to allow the 
class to organize in preparation for 
the Freshman All-Carnegie Dance 
to be held on December 2.All members of the class are eligi­ble providing the proper petitions are filed in the Y. M. C. A. 
office in College of Industries, not later than 4:30 on Friday. This al­lows ample time for the names of the candidates to appear in the next issue of the Tartan. Petitions 
for all these offices must be legibly presented with 10 endorsers and the 
signatures of the nominees affixed.In addition to this freshman 
class election, there is also to be elected in Margaret Morrison Car­
negie College three members of tne junior class as assistant secretaries of Student Council. Only those 
girls in the secretarial course are eligible for nomination. Since these three girls are to be elected by the entire college of Margaret Morri­son, with the exception of the pres­
ent freshmen, the petitions filed must bear 25 names. It is possi­
ble for one person to sign three pe­titions. The method of filing these 
petitions is the same as that out­lined for freshman selections, ex­
cept that they are due before 4:30 today.
‘Y’ Plans Another 
Week-End Trip
Included in the Y. M. C. A. pro­gram for the coming year is another week-end excursion to Cook’s Forest. The success of this excursion in past years has warranted another trip this fall. Other “Y” projects include the formation of a committee to assist and entertain foreign students, the organization of a group for former Hi-Y men, Thanksgiving and Christmas vacation plans, and the installation of radios, free, in hospital rooms. If any students know hospital patients who desire radios in their rooms, they are asked to notify the “Y” office.Already hundreds of freshmen have taken part in the Y. M. C. A. program of the last two weeks. Two hundred new students atten- ed the “Y” corn roast in Frick Woods. Also “Y” guides conduct­ed the largest number of students 
in years to church on Sunday morning.Over three hundred students were entertained at the annual banquet on Monday, September 26. Professor Kirkpatrick, who 
served as toastmaster of the ban­quet, introduced the speakers who were President Baker, Judge Stephen and Rev. Dr. Hugh T. Kerr.
PRESIDENT
JOSEF L. LENTZ
Josef L. Lentz, senior in the De­partment of Painting and Decorat­ing and member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity, who 
heads the Carnegie Student Coun­cil this year. Mr. Lentz is also s 
member of the Dragons, men's sen­ior honorary fraternity.
Unique Plays 
To Open New 
Drama Season
Original Composition By 
Students Will Be 
Produced Soon
Professor Kenyon To 
Give Lecture Series
Professor Kenyon, head of the Department of Drama, will give a series of six lectux*es on succes­sive Tuesday evenings beginning today in the new College Club un­der the auspices of the Wheaton College Club. His subject will be “The Spirit of the Time in Modern Dramatists,” and one evening will be devoted to discussion of each of the following playwrights: Eu­gene O’Neill-, Noel Coward, Henri- Rene Lenormand, George Kaiser, Jacinto Benevente, and Luigi Pirandello.
any Fraternities Improve Homes; 
Others Move To New Locations
7ith the new fall semester un­way we find many of the Car- ie social fraternities in new aes and others with improve- its and innovations in their old ises. The boys in the Sigma house, across the street from Cut on Forbes street, decided v. they had waited long enough <he school to come through with creation building and, conse- mtly, built a recreation room of tr own.
\e Alpha Sigma Phi’s, after do- a lot of repair work over the tner, have moved their baggage the vacant house next to the .. E’s. Speaking of the S. A. the men on the water wagon, is advised that they have pur­sed a lot of leather furniture jo with'their refinished rooms. ; fellows in the S. P. E. house a caller the other night who ioved the belongings of some of
the members—and was that an im­provement!
Going up into the Squirrel Hill district we find the Pi Kappa Alpha’s installing a new heating plant which will recondition the air. No doubt in an attempt to run the theaters with recondi­tioned air a little competition and keep the boys home at night. The Phi Kaps have hung their banner in the same neck of the woods across from the Beta Theta Pis on upper Forbes street.With due apologies to the “Pup­pet,” I wish to inform you that the Beta Sigma Rhos have taken those scholarship cups into a smooth looking chateau on top of a hill overlooking Beacon and Wightman streets.Coasting back down the hill onto Forbes street again we find the Theta Xis with all of their electric 
(Continued on Page Two)
An unusually interesting and 
varied group of plays have been 
chosen from which the Depart­
ment of Drama will select its pro­
ductions for the coming year, .a 
group ranging from Shakespeare 
and 19th century melodrama to 
compositions written by students 
in the department.
Ibsen’s “Pillars of Society” is al­
ready in rehearsal. Among the 
plays under consideration are: 
“The Ivory Door” by A. A. Milne; 
"The Virgin Goddess” by Rudolph 
Besier, author of “The Barretts of 
Wimpole Street;” “Anne Vroome” by Lewis Beach; “The Ticket of Leave-man,” a famous 19tli century melodrama by Tom Taylor; “Ham­ilton” by George I-lamlin and George Arliss; “The Farmer’s Wife” by Eden Pliilpotts; and one of Shakespeare’s dramas to be pro­duced by visiting director B. Iden Payne in celebration of the poet’s birthday.Professor Wallace is at present planning to produce a bill of four one-act plays, each of which will be an original composition chosen 
from the plays developed in his class in dramatic composition. This group of shorter plays will be pre­sented in the Little Theater as one of the major productions of the year.
Concert Tickets 
May Be Bought
This year a limited number of tickets at student rates will again 
be available for the May Beegle, the Art Society, and the Evening and Afternoon Symphony Orches­tra Concerts. An identification card secured from Miss Lawton at the Music Department, Colle'ge of Fine 
Arts, will enable any Carnegie stu­dent to purchase concert tickets at special rates at Mellor’s Music Store, 604 Wood street. Tickets 
will be on sale from Monday, Octo­ber 3, to Saturday, October 22.
The schedule for the various con­certs is as follows:I—May Beegle Concerts—
1. Friday evening, November 4—Maria Jeritza, MetropolitanGrand Opera Soprano.
2. Monday evening, November 1 —Jascha Heifetz, Master Violinist.3. Friday Evening, December 2 —Lucreja Bori, Metropolitan Opera Soprano in a Costume Recital.4. Saturday evening. January 7 (Continued on Page Four)
Noted Aviator 
Talks Today 
In Assembly
William Campbell Plans 
To Relate Some Of 
His Experiences
PROGRAM OPENS AT 
11:30 IN MUSIC HALL
Representatives Of Campus 
Activities Will Speak 
Of Their Work
Dormitory Telephone 
Numbers Are Listed
By EDMUND J. McCORMICK
William Campbell, one of the 
rhost experienced aviators in the 
country, will be the feature speaker 
at the General' Assembly to be held 
at 11:30 this morning in the Carne­
gie Music Hall.
Mr. Campbell’s talk will be con­
cerned with his own experiences 
in piloting planes and with 
the history and future of the 
aviation business. Among other 
things, he will tell how he landed 
a blazing plane from an altitude of 
4,000 feet and how he looped his 
plane 151 times in succession to break the world’s record.
Josef Lentz, president of the Student Council, will preside over a program planned to give a brief resume of the activities at Car­negie for the benefit of the fresh­
men. He will in addition speak on student government. John Ladd, representing publications, will tell 
about the work and scope of the magazines and papers at Carnegie. Coach Robert Waddell and co-cap­tains George KaveL and William Sample will speak for the football team and then the cheer-leaders will lead the students in several cheers. The music will be fur­nished by the Kiltie Band.
All freshmen will assemble in front of the Administration Build­ing at 11:20 where the Druids, sophomore honorary, will take charge of marching them in a body 
down to the Music Hall. The Kiltie Band will also assemble uni­formed at the same time in front of the Administration Building to march as a group to assembly. Upper-classmen are expected to go directly from their classes to the Music Hall.
In the auditorium special sec­tions have been reserved for the Mortar Board, senior class women’s honorary, Cwens, sophomore class women’s honorary, Dragon, senior class men’s honorary, Delta Skull, junior class men’s honorary and Druids, sopliomore class men’s honorary.
M. M. C. C. Will Hold 
Special Election Soon
The senior class of Margaret Morrison will hold a special elec­tion on Tuesday, October IS, to elect a Senior Class representative to Student Council. The petitions 
are due at the “Y” office before 4:30 today and require only five 
signatures of members of this group. The election is held by the present senior class to fill the va­cancy left in Student Council when Miss Kay Wholey resigned her po­
sition because of other activities.
Chairmen For Various 
Committees Appointed
Josef L. Lentz, president of Stu­dent Council, has appointed the 
following committee chairmen for the year 1932-1933:
Activities Key Chairman, Alan Davis; Women’s Social Chairman, Kay Wholey; Social Chairman, Ira 
Kuhn; Special Committee Chair­man, James Stahl; Plebe Regula­tions Chairman, Robert Robinson; Spring Carnival Chairman, James Fergus; Budgets, Bob Smith; Elec-i tions, William J. Lazarus; Assem­
bly Chairman, Samuel Wicks.
New R.O.T.C. 
Officers Will 
Be Announced
Lt. A. Burton Replaces 
Lieutenant Cothran 
On Faculty
Appointment of cadet officers for this year will be announced by the R. O. T. C. department just prior to the Military Ball. In other years 
the appointments were made be­fore drill, but this year a new plan 
.will be used by which temporary officers will be assigned and in turn /rotated in their position. This method is being tried for the first •time.Lieutenant Francis E. Cothran of the R. O. T. C. department has 
been released from duty and has been ordered to the University of Southern California where he wl take graduate work. Lieutenant Cothran is replaced by Lieutenant Albert H. Burton who served until 
this year on the Alaskan Road Com- ^mission. Lieutenant Burton is 
^graduate of the West Point Mili­tary Academy, class of 1925.Canip was held during the last ¡two weeks of June and the month of July at Camp Dix, New Jersey, ¡and at Fort Humphries, located •few miles south of Washington, for 
the coal engineers and the Signal Corps. Almost all the men who at­tended camp were juniors in the R. O. T. C. course last year.
Enrollment Remains 
Normal Despite Times
Billy Weixel and His Famous Band 
Booked for Reserve Dance Saturday
Has Played at Prominent 
College Affairs; Price 
Remains at $1
Faculty Members 
To Make Study
Several members of the Carnegie faculty are serving on special com­
mittees selected by the Pennsylva­nia Association of Liberal Arts Colleges to make a study of problems related to the certifica­tion of teachers in secondary schools. As a result of this study the association has found that it will probably be necessary to re­quire five years of college train­ing to obtain a teacher’s certificate for secondary schools.Members of the Carnegie faculty 
serving on these special commit­tees are Dr. Schoen, head of the Department of Psychology, a mem­
ber of the board of representatives which authorized the study; Pro­fessor Cleeton, head of the Depart­ment of Industrial Education,chairman of the Committee on In­
dustrial Arts Teaching: ProfessorNyquist, associate professor in the Department of Art ‘Education,chairman of the Committee in 
Normal Art Teaching; and Profes­sor Edith M. Winchester,’ head of the Department of SecretarialStudies, a member of the Commit­
tee on Commercial Teaching.
Lippmann Urges Students 
Concentrate On Knowledge
Advises Scholar To Detach Himself From Ideas 
About Present Crisis, To Remain Aloof, and 
To Refuse To Be Torn From Studies
Because of the fact that the tele­phone numbers of the women’s dor­mitories at Carnegie are not listed in the Pittsburgh directory, the
Tartan is offering this list for the conveniece of its readers. Below are listed all the numbers:
Forbes Hall ................Schenley 9079Forbes Annex ............Schenley 9340
Forbes (third floor) ..Schenley 9940Mellon Hall ................Schenley 9063Birch Hall ..................Schenley 9147Cedar Hall ..................Schenley 9138Cypress Hall ..............Schenley 9220Laurel Halil................Schenley 9136
By MARGARET GRIFFIN
Walter Lippmann, prominent newspaper columnist and analyst of world affairs, recently delivered at Columbia University, a paper concerning “The Scholar in a Troubled World.” The address, which has been reprinted in the August “Atlantic,” presents, on a student level, the elevated opin­ions of the author.
Although every student is not necessarily a scholar, every mem­ber of a college or university is aware of his status as an intelli­gent individual among a world of ignorant or indifferent humans.The scholar,” says Lippmann, ‘•'feels that he ought to be doing 
something about the world’s trou­bles, or at least to be saying some­thing which will help others to do something about them. The 
world needs ideas—how can he sit silently in his study and with a good conscience go on with his thinking when there is so much that urgently needs to be done?” However, at the same time he hears his scholar’s conscience which tells him that as a scholar he must remain indifferent to the immediate, and serenely attached to the processes of inquiry and un­derstanding.If the scholar remains aloof from affairs, the public asks im­
patiently “what is all this theoriz­ing good for anyway if it does not show a way out of all the trou­ble.” In participation in public affairs the scholar suffers in his 
own estimation as weU in that of I
others—“He dislikes himself he pronounces conclusions that he only half believes; he distrust.3 himself and the .scholar’s life, be­cause, when the practical need for knowledge is so great, all the li­braries leave so much unsettled.” 
This mental conflict between participation and detachment possesses “every student of eco­nomics and of politics, of law, of 
education and of morals.” It is demanded of him that he provide the solutions. It is assumed “that 
prolonged study should have pro­duced immediate practical wis­dom; that from the professors should issue knowledge of how to decide the current controversies/ 
Mr. Lippmann discusses this presumption:
“We assume that a profound study of politics ought to produce a statesman, a profound study of 
economics ought to produce a man of affairs, a profound study of law 
ought to produce a legislator Yet we know that it rarely hap­pens. Nevertheless, we continue to assume and expect, and then are disappointed when the scholar 
is ineffective in affairs, or half­hearted and distracted in his search for truth.”According to Lippmann the in­trinsic reason for the failure of theory in managing public affairs lies in the will of the people. Practical decisions depend largely upon swift appraisal of public opinion, but there is as yet no science which controls this ap- 
(Continued on Page Four.)
In keeping with the policy of se­
curing outstanding dance orches­
tras, Billy Weixel and His Famous 
Band, known over the National 
Broadcasting and Columbia Net­
work chains for his scintillating, 
rhythmic dance music, has been 
booked for the Western Reserve- 
Carnegie football dance next Satur­
day evening in Thistle Hall. 1-Ie 
comes direct from New York after 
completing all-summer engage­
ments at Bemus Point and Van Bu- ren Port, where he has played for 
over 750; couples in a single even­
ing.Billy Weixel is a protege of Ted 
Weems, and his orchestra, the per­sonnel of which has remained un­
changed for three years, has been coached by such leading dance maestros as Lloyd Huntley, now 
playing at the Urban Room in the Hotel William Penn, and Tom Guran. I-Ie has broadcast local­
ly over Stations KDKA, WCAE, WJAS, and WWSW. Last year ho played at the Intercollegiate Ball in the Hotel William Penn, the Indiana State College Interfra­
ternity Formal, the Slippery Rock State College Junior Prom, the University of Pittsburgh College 
Association-Formal, and has featur­ed at other large college social af­fairs.One of the special arrangements Billy Weixel features is his own interpretation of ’‘Shine” and peo­
ple who have danced to his music testify that his rendering of “Goo- 
fus” will double the dancers over with laughter. Aside from these 
two special numbers, he has sever­
al other ludicrous novelty arrange­ments.Special arrangements have been made to broadcast the music from the dance over Station WWSW.
Despite the prominence of Billy Weixel and his music makers, the admission charge will remain at the customary price of $1.00 a cou­ple. Dancing will begin at 9:00 and. will continue until 12:00.
Y.W.C.A. Tea Is 
Held Tomorrow
The annual Big and Little Sister Tea will be held tomorrow from 4 to 6 o’clock in Recreation Hall, on the fourth floor of Margaret Morri­son College. Each year the Y. W. C. A. plans an entertainment for the freshman girls and their big sisters to give them an opportunity to become better acquainted with each other. Miss Mary Watson Green and Alice Work, the Y. W. C. A. president, will preside. Miss Patterson, who is succeeding Miss Green as active sponsor, will also be present.
Each big sister will attend the tea with her little sister, but the Y. W. C. A. Cabinet urges all fresh­
man women to come whether they have met their big sister or not. Members of the Y. W. C. A. will be present as hostesses for those girls who are unescorted.The Y. W. C. A. Cabinet held its 
first retreat the week-end of SeP' tember 16 at “Sky-High” near Alli­son Park, for the purpose of plan­ning a program for the coming year. A series of supper meetings with interesting speakers have been scheduled and all girls are urged to attend these discussion groups.
TTHT E1 Shoow 
inggfe Fo1halhOeN
The Carnegie Puppet intends to continue its broadcasting over Station WWSW every 
Thursday evening at 7:45 p. m. 
presenting a program of music and sketches. Next week the broadcast will be one-half hour long instead of fifteen minutes as it was last Thursday. As the talent heard during this presen­
tation comes from the campus, the student body is urged to tune in on WWSW at this time on Thursday evenings.
The ten-minute period at 5:35 on Monday is a weekly Tartan 
program summarizing the news of Carnegie in “Campus Notes.”
Coal Research 
Lab. Increases 
Regular Staff
Twelve Major Projects 
Are Under Progress 
In Laboratory
The Coal Research Laboratory 
in Engineering Hall has recently in­
creased its staff to ninetenn mem­
bers, enlarged its equipment, and Is 
working on twelve major projects.
The latest appointments to the 
staff are three Fellows, Dr. A. R. Al­
bright and Dr. Guenther Von Elbe, 
both of whom received their their 
Ph. D. from German Universities, 
and the third, Philip H. Dewey, 
graduate student with his masters 
degree. At the present time, thir­
teen members of the staff aro tech­nical men directly engaged in ex­
perimental study.The physical equipment added to 
the laboratories includes the In­stallation of hoods and both AC and 
DC power. The machine shop has been, increased in size and equip­
ment so that its usefulness is con­siderably greater. During the sum­
mer three additional laboratories were installed and equipped to per­mit further expansion of work and to take care of the newly appointed men. As a result, the Coal Re­search Laboratory now has thirteen well equipped laboratories and a machine shop at its disposal.
Work is now in progress on twelve problems, all but two of which are directly related to the study of the mechanism of thermal 
decomposition of coal. The actual number of experimental investiga­tions is greater, since many of 
these problems include more than one phase of study.
Total Not FarTBehind 
Last Year’s Record 
Registration
595 PLEBES ENTER; 
ENGINEERING GAINS
Freshman Class Largest; 
Complete Figures Not 
Yet Available
By JACQUE M1NNOTTE
Predictions that Carnegie’s en­
rollment would suffer very little 
due to current economic conditions 
have been borne out, an examina­
tion of nearly complete figures from the Office of the Registrar discloses.With a total enrollment of 2,295 N up to and including Thursday, Sep­tember 29 against the figure o.C 2,474 for a comparable date last , year, it was apparent that, since registration is still incomplete, any reduction would not exceed five per cent. (-
Alan Bright, Registrar, pointed .out that “This is a normal enroll­ment. Even in formór times, the fluctuation from year to year and from semester to semester has fm-\ quently been greater than this.' It is a wonderful tribute to the Ad­ministration and to the student body.”
The decrease of 175) in total en­rollment has been distrlbutelli, through all the colleges, making for slight reductions In all but the College of Engineering.This year’s reduction represents an even smaller natural reduction since several short coursos, offered last year, have been dropped tills semester. The only short coursei now open are those in Trliiting anct Architecture.
This year’s enrollment in dIn-\ tributed by classes us follows:' Special, 5G; short-courso, 33; graduate, 33; senior, 401; sub-, senior, 22; junior, 516; sophomore, 579; arid freshman, 595.Complete figures will not he available until October .15 at which time it will bo possible to compare tile enrollment with the total of 2,5-14 of last year, and the figure of 2,547 of 1930. Registration of students for this somostor is still in progress and will, if the oxporl-\ enco of past years is any indica-' lion, materially swell this year’s figure.
It is considered improbable that last year’s total will bo equaled, but the drop of flvo per cent Is all * that is expected. Many other pri- 
(Continued on Pago Four.)
usorf\/
Student Theater 
Tickets Available
Mining Advisory Board 
To Meet On October 11
Advertising Staff Of 
Tartan Issues Call
All Freshmen interested in working on the advertising staff of the Tartan will report, at 11:30 Thursday in the Tartan office. , Positions on the staff are open to women as well as men and it is hoped that a number of students will respond to the call. Commis­sions are paid to those who suc­ceed in getting advertisements for the paper.Seniors are eligible for the two paying jobs, that of business man­ager and advertising manager.
Women’s Glee Club 
Holds Tryouts Today
The Women’s Glee Club will hold its first tryouts this afternoon at 4:30 in the M. M. C. C. general, assembly hall. These tryouts aro open to all women students of Carnegie.
The first meeting of the glee club at which the club will be formally organized for the year 1932-1933, will be held next Mon­day evening in the M. M. C. C. assembly hall.
Included in the tentative pro­gram of activities for this year is a concert over radio station KDKA.
The regular fall meeting of the Mining Advisory Board will be held in the Carnegie Inn on Tuesday, October 11 at 6:30 p. m. The meet­ing will begin with the usual infor­mal dinner.
Dr. L. E. Young, chairman of the 
board, will call for committee re­ports, and discussion on the work undertaken this year will follow. 
One of the many committee reports will be the report of Mr. Howard N. 
Eavenson, chairman of the Re­search Committee, which will pre­sent important technological data on the Grindability of Coal, the De­termination of the Effect of Mixing Coals on the Ash -Fusion Tempera­ture of the Mixture, and the Iden­tification of Phenol.
A theater party is being formod by Professor Elmer Kenyon, of the Department of Drama, to attend the Theater Guild’s production of 
“The Good Earth” at the Nixon on Friday evening, October 7. Student may secure dollar seats at 
a student price of fifty cents through Mr. Kenyon by promptly pla.cing their orders, cash in advance, at his office in the College of Fine Arts. Similar arrangements are being made for attending the pre­sentation of “The Pure in Heart.”“The Good Earth” broke all rec­ords for non-musical shows at its premiere in Philadelphia, and is scheduled to open in New York on October 10. It is the story of Wang Lung, a farmer who passionately loves the land he tills and whoiio ambition ever is to add to his acres. O-lan, a plain, almost ugly slave becomes his wife. By patient labor she helps him to gain suc­cess and riches. Wang Lung tires*, qf her stolid plainness and thrusts her into second place by marrying the frail and beautiful Lotus. The plays ends fragically when the death of O-lan awakens the dormant love of Wang Lung.Outstanding in the cast of about forty are Alla Nazimova as O-lan, Henry Travers as Wang’s father,- and Sidney Greenstreet as Wang’s crafty uncle.
Can Betty Co-Ed Eat All Desserts 
And Retain Her Girlish Figure?
Which shall it be—her pride or 
her purse? That is the vital ques­
tion confronting Betty Co-ed today. 
And what with the tempting food 
values offered in the campus cafe­terias this year, the question really 
warrants serious consideration.Last year, for instance, with sand­
wiches alone costing as much as 20 cents or 25 cents. It was only by 
discreet apportionment of funds that Betty’s weekly allowance pro­vided for sundaes or devil food 
cake and ice cream on her luncheon tray. Day after day she lunched 
frugally on a meagre sandwich and plain ice cream or cake. She thus incurred no undue expense to her purse or her girlish figure, this year, however, the gods of the Grille, the Beanery, and Skibo have taken pity on the budgeted co-eds; 
the same-priced sandwich comes ac-
companied by a generous handful | ditures.
of crisp potato chips, or steaming snowflake potatoes, or even a choice of beverages.
Now our Betty is in a dilemma; she is forced to make a sacrifice somewhere. What to do—what to do—for to be penny wise may bo 
pound foolish. The calorie-carry­ing dosserts which budgeting ex­cluded may now become a dally delicacy, which will be disastrous 
to the highly coveted HllmncBH which frugal lunches assured. It would take a much more willful 
woman than Miss Botty to resist the tasty and altogether delicious lunch bargains that are offered daily and yet, there is the cute little size 14 dress that is also a bargain and that shows plenty of 
taste besides. It is a weighty prob­lem. this, for Betty Co-ed is just 
as proud of her pocket-size figure she is of her pocket-wise expen-

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1932
Harriers Are 
Training For 
Opening Meet
Cross Country Team 
Meets Notre Dame 
In First Meet
Reserve Stars Who Face Tartans SaturdayWomen’s AthleticsTHE
PLAID SPORTS 
SCREEN
Play Day with its usual riot of color aud laughter was a hu 
success. The Cut swarmed with playful activity all Saturday aft 
noon when the W. A. A., under Betty Preller’s supervision, welconv 
C. I. T.’s newest athletes into its ranks. Ping-pong, jacks and tiddl« 
winks helped the Freshmen to forget their newly-acquired dignity n 
enter into the battle for points. If we were to judge the sight 
a Dramat washing her face in soap bubbles, or a P. and D., painting 
hop scotch diagonals on the sidewalk as marks of success, then Pla; 
Day surely was one.
Basketball in the Gym .was good for as many laughs as it was 
goals, but the game was peppy enough to show us some real talent. 
The seniors had better be wary of these freshmen or their basketball 
supremacy may be threatened. Betty Wise and Margaret McKe( 
of the Class of '36, look as if they might offer some stiff oppositio
Tenuis? Did you say? “Yes, it’s here with us again," Anne Wa 
den announces as she opens the fall doubles season for W. A. A. So 
all you people who have been boasting about the tan you acquired 
this summer on the courts may proceed to demonstrate your skill. 
Doubles only are in vogue, though, so find yourself a partner and get 
busy now. If the rain chases you inside remember that the gym wall 
is a mighty good backstop. So—so long until we see you on the courts
MY&ON
ULR.ICH
BY JOE BRONSON
Under the leadership of G. W. 
Ramsey, captain of the cross coun­
try team, the Skibo long distance 
runners have fair promise for an­
other good season this year. The 
candidates for the team have been 
training for several days now and 
they had their first tryouts last 
Friday afternoon. Although Ram­
sey has been delayed in coming out 
by a touch of illness, he will soon 
be able to lead the team again.
Members of last year's cross country team who are running this 
year are Ramsey, Schell, Stankey, Allen, Burns, Néff and Burke. Other varsity candidates, such as members of the 1931 track team, who are good cross country mate- rail, but previously unable to com­
pete in the distance running, are expected to be out also.The 1932 schedule is as follows:October .22—Notre' Dame-----ThereOctober 29—Geneva....................HereNovember 5—Westminster .. Here November 12—W.-Virginia.. .There November IS—Pitt......................HereThough the freshman team is not yet in appearance, an attractive schedule, consisting of four meets, is already planned. Since good ma­terial is often withheld by hesi­tancy or'disinterest in cross coun­try running, a plea is made that all possible running material, varsity and freshman, be out for the try­outs at the earliest date possible.
WHEW1 WAS THAT A CLOSE ONE? Almost every one breathed a sigh of relief when the gun sounded ending that hectic struggle with Geneva, although I imagine most every one would like to have seen the game last a minute or so longer to see what the Tartans could have done with the ball when they had it on or near the 10- yard stripe. However, true to the pre-game dope, Howard Harp- ster’s Geneva Covenanters came down to the stadium and put up the toughest opening game battle that the Tartans have had to play in years. The Tartans had to put forth all the power they had in their command to eke out that 7-0 victory. There can be no doubt about it that Harpy’s boys put up a great fight, and on several occasions the Covenanters had the Plaid with their backs to the wall, but from each of these the Tartans were able to emerge without their goal line crossed, and thus emerged victorious in the first game of the year. Anyhow I’m glad I didn’t take any of those 14 point bets which looked so good a day or two before the game 'cause now I can eat this week where otherwise I might have had to join the well-known Pittsburgh 
Bread Line.
IT IS HARD TO SAY JUST WHAT ONE THINKS OF THE TARTAN 1932 GRID MACHINE. They seem to be better or more powerful than last year's squad but hardly up to the form displayed by the 1930 out­fit, which scored an overwhelming victory over Thiel in the opening game and made a “Rambling Wreck” of Georgia Tech in the second 
game. Individually they are almost as good, but team work seems to be lacking, especially on the offense. We do not want to discount the fact that Geneva put up a stubborn defense, but surely something was lacking. What was wrong? I’ll admit that I do not know much nbout football but it seems to me that a few good lessons in funda- ontals would not do a bit of harm. A little practice in—let us say locking and taking out would be tacklers. Several times a ball car­eer would have been free to go places if his interference could have clipped out ambitious Geneva tacklers, but more often than not the pigskin toter was slowed un -o :n • iiac ue v. ^o ..or stumbled over his own interference.
MANY INDIVIDUAL PERFORMANCES WERE EXCELLENT. The line played a bang-up game defensively. It was seldom that Geneva could break through for any sizable gains. Before our friends, the downtown scribes, get together and decide which of Pitt’s linemen they are going to ballyhoo to the great All-American berths let us say that our Co-Captain Hooks Sample will ask no quarter from any of them. Hooks was right in there every moment. Not only did he stop many plays at the line but he was down under punts very fast and several times got the receiver before he had time to move. The ends were especially good in this department, as is witnessed by the fact that Art Grahame, a clever runner, seldom returned a ball as far as 10 yards. The failure of the much-praised passing attack of Geneva’s to function was mainly due to the fast work of tackles Foresman and Croft, who rushed the passer so quickly that many of the intended passes were broken up before they started.
TO BILL SPISAK, BLOND MIDLAND YOUTH, AND FORMER KISKI STAR, goes the credit of being the biggest ground gainer in the Stadium on Saturday afternoon. Ho was held out of the opening .lineup in favor of the more experienced Sayles, but after his appear­ance in the game he served warning to future opponents that they had ( better watch out for him or they will be looking at his heels most of i the afternoon. Bill was not injected into the lineup until after the 'second quarter had begun, but on three consecutive plays he gained a total of 54 yards. During the course of the afternoon he turned in runs of 10, 12, 13, 15, 17, 23 and 25 yards. In 22 attempts he gained a total of 171 yards or an average of 7.8 yards for each attempt. All of which is not bad for a beginner in his first varsity football game. Co- Captain George Kavel chalked up the largest single gain of the game. George snared one of Grahame’s well meant passes and tore down the field for a jaunt of 33 yards, and he almost made a touchdown on the play. George was his usual consistent self, scoring the first touch­down and gaining yards when they were needed most.
CARNEGIE STUDENTS WHO ARE INTERESTED IN FOLLOWING THE ACTIONS OF THE FOOTBALL TEAM in Its games away from home will be glad to hear that the Athletic Council has made plans to run a private telegraph wire to the scene of each game on the road. Play by play returns will come' right to our gymnasium from each of these games. The play by play accounts of the game wjll be announced by megaphone and the games will probably be reproduced on the big Grld-Graph. Students will be admitted on their student books and outsiders will be charged 25 cents.
STADIUM NOTES. Several new banners adorn the sides of the stadium, namely those of Xaxier, Standford, New York University, and Duquesnc . . . Rocky River's bid for fame, Jim Fergus walking up and down the side line equipped with a telephone set. By the results of some of the announcements James must have been carrying on con­versations with all his old flames and maybe some new ones. Noth­ing like keeping In practice. Anyhow those ear flaps will come in handy during the cold afternoons in November . . . Maxie Hannum leaving the press box after the touchdown to go down and have a chat with Harpy . . . Former Tartan footballer, Tony Schmidt, scouting -Geneva for St. Vincents . . . Everyone grabbing for sandwiches and coffco which were passed out at the half-gratis . . . And former Pitt star, Eddie Baker, reaching in the door trying to sneak off with one 
... Oh yes, it's nice to have a drag.
ALUMNI NOTICE. When the football team plays Western Reserve this Saturday they will stop in Cleveland at the Carter Hotel, which is the old Winton Hotel under a new name. If you are interested in getting in touch with the coaches or any members of the team you may call for them there.___________________________________________
THE OAKLAND 
BANK”
Feoples- 
Pittsburgh 
Trust Co.
the services or ex­
perienced officers are 
available to our de­
positors
SliillW lcwca/ I |--------¡VAN---------1------:------Œhti en’sGlG 1—1 -EDDIF .-FINN/QAN \~CM/21STMA A/ —I
Tom Keady, Dartmouth man, starts his second year as Head Coach of football at Reserve with good 
prospects. Three of his aces who are available .from last year are Eddie Finnigan, halfback; Myron Ulrich, 
quarterback; and Ivan Christman, tackle. Finnigan is a Cleveland high school product, Christman is from 
Canfield. Ohio, and Ulrich is from Orrville, Ohio.
Oakland Branch
Forbes and Meyran
Preaching economy in school at­
tendance costs not only by precept but by example. Six men teachers in Griswold, Iowa, schools appear­
ed in classes wearing overalls and work shirts. Boys of the school soon joined them._________________Tartans Win 
Opener From 
Geneva 7 to 0
Call Candidates For 
Tennis TournamentsiDfAfO E1 Ifg1oe 
L1o So1OO S1nReowAll candidates who wish to enter the Fall Varsity and Freshman Tennis Tourament are requested to report to L. F. Dickson at the trophy room in the Gymnasium be­tween 4:30 and 5:30 today. The entrance fee is twenty-five cents.The fall tournament which is an annual affair will begin tomorrow afternoon and will continue until five rounds have been played; The tournament schedule will be post­ed at the tennis court tomorrow morning. Trophies for varsity and freshman winners will be awarded. L. F. Dickson, varsity tennis manager and M. Simkin, freshman tennis manager have charge-of the arrangements.
FACULTY AND STUDENTS!
FOR RENT
Dcsirnhlc Rooms in a Beautiful 
Home. Restricted Residential Section. 
Breakfast Served. Twelve Minutes to School.
MRS. J. I. FLYNN, 5418 Kiplinjr Rond
MEMBER FEDERAL 
RESERVE SYSTEM
All Freshmen who are inter­ested in going out for the cross country team are asked to re­port to Coach Guy Halferty any afternoon in the gymnasium after 4:30. The cross country team is 
one of Carnegie’s most successful teams and each year it makes several trips to other schools for meets. This is an excellent chance for one not only to make his 
numerals but later on his Var­sity C.
arpster’s Covenanters 
Fight Hard Against 
Tartan Team
The big Red machine of Carnegie 
and the little blue engine from Gen­eva met head-on in the Stadium Sat­urday and. when the smoke had cleared away the Covenanters found themselves bumped off the track with a 7-0 damage suit against them. The scrappy, well-coaclied visiting gladiators repeatedly tossed the proverbial monkey wrench into the Scotch works and battled with 
the Plaid on even terms most of the 
way.Instead of being a warm-up game the Geneva contest proved to be 
one of the most difficult inaugural affairs ever undertaken by the Skl- hos. Praise in large portions is due Harpster for the intelligent, cour­ageous team he sent against Car­
negie.Defensively the Tartans showed great potentialities and served no­
tice to future opponents that they are going to be a hard team to score on. The Plaid offense, how­ever, to put it mildly, still has a few rough edges which need to be 
polished off. The Sldbos greatest difficulty in their opening game seemed to be the inability to get 
their ball carriers past the line of 
scrimmage.Little Bill Spisalc, playing his 
first varsity game for Carnegie, ac­quitted himself nobly and showed the rooters some tricky, broken- fteld performances. Co-Captains Sample and Kavel displayed the wares which gained them their 
leadership and were greatly instru­mental in smothering the Grahame and Aultman passing combine. The Tartan linemen, lead by Sample, rushed Grahame’s passing and kick­ing while the Plaid backs success­fully covered the Geneva receivers.Fumbles and penalties marred 
the greater part of the game and kept the teams out of the scoring zones during the first 30 minutes of play. In the second half the Car­negie offense began to click and after a preliminary exchange of 
punts the Tartans' marched 40 yards for their only score. Spisak bore the brunt of this successful advance with Kavel scoring the touchdown. Geneva threatened twice thereafter but both times Carnegie smothered 
the Covenanter attempts and the game ended with Tech in posses­sion of the ball on the Geneva 12- 
yard line.________________________
Many Fratertities 
Make Improvements
Continued From Page 1
wiring in. good order, despite con­trary reports, polishing a new chair donated by Professor Iiower.Information regarding those houses over on Clyde street was hard to ferret out. After due de­liberation and consideration the Delts reported that their house had been thoroughly cleaned from attic to and including the cellar. Here’s 
hoping you keep it that way fel­lows. Their next door neighbors, the Kappa Sigs, came through with three new showers as shrines to the Goddess of Purity. Many other organizations also made im­provements and changed their lo­cations but lack of space makes a complete list impossible.__________
Veteran Red Cat Team 
To Face Carnegie 
In Cleveland
A strong, veteran Western Re­serve football team, fresh from an impressive 6-0 victory over Den­nison, waits in its Cleveland lair 
for the invasion of Carnegie this Saturday. The Red Cats, with 10 lettermen returning and augmented by a great array of sophomore ma­
terial, appears to be the best out­fit Reserve followers have seen on the field for many years.The coming game is the fourth played between the two schools 
with the first three verdicts going to the Skibos. Football relations with Western Reserve began in 1927 when Carnegie took a 45-0 victory. No game was played in 1928 but the 
following year the Tartans trimmed Reserve 33-6. The last meeting be­
tween the schools in ’30 went to the Plaid, 40-8.Tom Keady, who formerly coached 
at Lehigh when that institution turned out championship teams, has started his second season at the Re­serve helm. Keady has two able 
assistants in “Jiggs” Donahoue and George Brown, and the trio have developed a smooth-running aggre­
gation to face Carnegie.The present Red Cat team is built around three veterans, Eddie Fin- nigan, a stellar halfback; “Doc” Ul-
rich, signal barker, and Christman, a par-excellent lineman. Other let­termen returning include Troyan at end; Cornsweet and Cobbs, tackles, and Mattoe, Franz and Wayne In 
the backfleld.Keady’s big difficulty will be re­placing White and Webster, his two star terminals who graduated last year. The veteran Christman will 
have Willison as a running mate at tackle while Colvin is a likely starter at center. Barron Keady, 
the coach's son and a good punter and dropkicker, is also a backfleld 
candidate.As Western Reserve uses the 
Warner system, the game should enable Carnegie's new men to be­come further accustomed to the style of play employed by Pitt and 
other future opponents.___________
Skibo Plebes 
Op en Season 
With Panthers
Thus far this fall the Skibo men­tors have been very reticent on the Plebe football situation, but when the opening whistle sounds fans may expect the usual powerful ma­chine.
The Plebe’s cause received a se­vere jolt last week, however, when 
Bowser, a very classy back, dis­located a shoulder, putting him out for the remainder of the season. Coach Armentrout is banking heav­ily on Spisak, younger brother of Bill Spisak, star varsity halfback. The junior member of the family 
has shown great promise in early scrimmages. Spencer at center and Moore at tackle are likewise being depended upon for high-class work. 
The schedule follows:
October 15—Pitt..........................HereOctober 22—W. Va.....................AwayOctober 29—Kislci......................AwayNovember 25—W. & J..................Here
Armentrout, New Coacli, 
To Present Strong 
Squad In Opener
Coach “Big Dog” Armentrout, 
who football fans will remember as 
last year’s field general and a great 
halfback for the Carnegie board of' 
strategy, has only 10 days in which 
to round his promising plebe squad 
into shape for their first aud hard­
est engagement of the season. The 
Tartan yearlings clash with the 
Panther Cubs from across the park 
on October 15 and. as usual, the ful­
ls expected to fly thick and fast.
For two years now these games 
between the freshman squads of 
Pittsburgh’s major institutions have 
endod in scoreless deadlocks with 
little to choose between them. In 
1930 the Tartans wore robbed of victory by the whistle for the half, although during the remainder of the game the Panthers seemed to have the edge offensively. Last year, paradoxically enough, the Plaid apparently had the situation well in hand when Pitt collected a fumble for a first down on the eight- yard stripe, only to bo stopped by 
the familiar foghorn. _______
(Wherever you buy \ Chesterfields,you get them just a? fresh v if you came by \\ factory doorShowing ofThe Fall
STETSOND TAILORS
Recommended by the English Department 
of Carnegie Institute of Technology
^Collegiate
THERE’S romance in a Chesterfield- 
die romance of fine tobaccos from a 
over the world. The search begins in fa 
off Turkey where Chesterfield buyers vis 
every important tobacco-growing scction. 
and continues throughout our own Sou', 
land where buyers inspect every crop. Yei 
in and year out Chesterfield gives to ' 
smokers the "pick” of all these fields.
Exclusively Modeled...................
Beautifully Tailored....................
and priced as low as.........$22.50*
o nest Abridged Dictionary because It is ;scd upon WEBSTER'S NEW INTER­ACTIONAL—The ‘‘Supremo Authority.’’
rending and study that will prove Its real value every time you consult it for 
the wealth of ready information that
106,000 words nml plirascs wltll dcfl- n niUons, etymologies, pronunein- ,
nary of foreign phrases j and other ///k 
helpful special features. //A
See it at yoitr College Bookstore or TFrife for In forma- /y&tt j
tion to the Publishers. Free specimen pages if you /wk So
I^JG.&C.MERRIAM f
Springfield, Mass. I ||i 8|
‘Justly
Famous’
'Nationally
Known”
liberty Engraving Company
V r' PHOTO ENGRAVERS ^@ Display by BILL CHARLOW 
Tailors To College Men From Coast To Coast© 1932. Liggett & Myers 
Tobacco Co.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1932
Carnegie Plaid 
Night School’s 
Page, Changed
New Outward Appearance 
Changes Page Though 
Purpose Is Same
Tlie first 'issue of The Tartan 
this year appeared in an entirely 
new style and setup. The whole 
paper from the first page to the 
last one has undergone a complete 
change. The Plaid is heartily in 
accord with these changes and is 
glad to cooperate in every way to 
make the college weekly a pro­
gressive publication of our campus.
The main features of the paper 
have been maintained, that is, 
page two will be the sports page 
with the Plaid Sports Screen 
spotted in the left-hand corner; 
page three will remain the Plaid 
Page with the Idle Thoughts of an 
Idle Night Student serving as the 
spot for this page, and "From the 
Fence” will remain on page four 
with its chatter about everything 
in general. By this arrangement 
the paper becomes a complete unit 
but without sacrificing any indi­
viduality of the various component 
sections.
No doubt the first glance at the 
paper gives one the impression that 
it is not the campus weekly but 
some city daily newspaper deliv­ered by mistake. One has to rub his eyes to realize that it really is The Tartan appearing in its new dress and what a dress it is. The whole change makes a wonderful stride in college journalism and places The Tartan among the fore­most of campus publications.The whole typography of the paper is on a vei*y high plane and shows that a great deal of thought and work has been expended to achieve the results attained. The impressions of the type are clear and distinct, the paper in general is clear-cut and thereby much easier read. A complete system of heads has been adopted and uni­formity will exist throughout all the pages.The elimination of the old familiar banner “The Carnegie Plaid” does not mean that this sec­tion will disappear from The Tar­tan. We will still have this page and the news appearing on it will be just as pertinent to our group as ever. It is just a progressive move as our page is read by all the Carnegie students, and why shouldn’t it?The night student body ,and the day student body have common in­terests and during the past sev­eral years these groups have been drawing closer and closer together. No logical reason can be advanced why the two groups should be en­tirely separate and distinct from each other. It is true that there can never be a complete merging 
of these bodies, for each one lives in a sphere entirely its own, but in a broad sense both are Carnegie Tech students. The same courses taught by the same instructors are offered to each and the credit earned lias the same value, for this reason we find many day stu­dents registered for night classes. Certain progressive individuals have seen the desirability of work­ing hand-in-hand with one another for the better understanding of mutual interests with the result that the Carnegie student, be he a da.y or night man, will be better served.
The dropping of the banner at the iop of our page is therefore just another highly significant and important step in this direction. News items that are of importance to the night student are of more than passing interest to the day student, and the opposite is also true for there is not a single night student who has ever received The Tartan who has not read it from the front page to the last page.
A Night Student’s Views 
On Puzzling Question
Celebration of Founders Day here has been definitely cancelled this year because-of low finances.
ment at Ohio State has announced that in-coming co-eds are thinner since the depression.
awarded a “W” to a man who had played third-base on the 1SS2 base­ball team. No reason was given for the delay.
A glance at the list of night stu­dents who were awarded the Night. Student Insignia award last year, looks like a line-up of who’s who.DIDJA NOTICE
No mention has been made of cancelling the Arts Ball which is due to be held this year, so there is still hope for anxious art stu­dents.
The ontrance requirements at El Azhar University In Cairo, Egypt, include the memorizing of the 
Koran, Mohammedan Bible. The recitation takes three days.
Well, I’m just like everybody 
else -around here, the summer's 
gone, fall is here, school is about 
ready to open, and I’m still lookin’ 
for money to use for tuition and 
books, 'nd things. It was a pretty 
good summer considerin’ every­
thing. Swimmin’ was about as good as any other year, there were a lot of fellows around who had time to pitch horse shoes, and of course there were a few trips to the farms here and there to see some of the folks.But, doggone it anyway, nothin’ goes just right. When I’ve got a lotta time, I don’t have much money to have a good time and when I’ve got the money, I’m so darn busy that I don't have time 
to have some fun. Ah me! guess there’s no use in kicldng. Why, iust the other day I met a friend from the town below and he sez, “Well, Bill, how you doin’ these days?” “Not bad” I replied. “You’re eatin’ ain’t you?” he asks, “and it’s your own, well what are you kickin’ about anyway?”That's just it, if we all can hold our heads up by ourselves we shouldn’t go around crying about the way things were before. Of course, there is no disgrace when folks need a little help in order to get by. It seems to me if people didn’t offer help to their neighbors and friends the stuff they preach in the little white church down on Main street wouldn’t hold for much. If there’s anything in this religion stuff then I guess there always has been someone who needed a little shovin’ over the rough spots in the road.What most of us need right now is just a little friendly boost of a few dollars to get us started right 
and for the new comers a little ad­vice on how to pass those darn math quizzes and how to unscram­ble those chemistry symbols. We all need a good start for the year 
and after we’ve about sized up our year’s work, then we can* sit back and maybe have a smoker and a dance or two and get together on Saturday nights so we can give the boys a chance to see our new girl.
THAT many former night students can hardly wait until registration night so that they can get back into the harness.THAT the query, “Are you going back to school?” brings various responses, but the most frequent answer given is: “Sure, if I can find the money.”THAT even though a drop in night registration is to be ex­pected, we bet it won’t lie as much as some are inclined to think.THAT, if fasting serves Gandhi to good advantage, some of us might try it to end the present economic recession. It might work, and how.THAT, with the elephant and the donkey trying to kick each other to death, this is the time for all good men to come to the aid of their party.THAT by this time Dad Man- son is hard at work studying the question and answer book before the onrush of night stu­dents begins.THAT, in spite of the “We point with pride,” statements of certain political orators, oth­ers are claiming that this coun­try has gone to the bow-wows. We should worry, for the whole world has been going there since the first man and his loud speaker had their initial mono­logue.THAT a premature visit to the campus by your restless scribe brought back many fond memories and visions of happy days to come.' THAT some night students don’t know how well off they are, weeks before school starts and we poor newspaper hounds are hard at work, ah me! life is so unjust . . . say Joe, fill it up again and I’ll gladly pay you on Tuesday.THAT that’s that, and I’ll be- seenya!
We’ll Give You
$125 $050
The Physical Education Depart-Recently Wesleyan University
My but that week went fast. Another ramble from the Idle Stu­dent duo and I haven’t begun to find my bearings or whatever you call 'em. Tempus fuget or the like, Wu tell them. It beats all how he days fly by, I can’t say rilghts because the night session has not oegun for us yet; won’t be long though until we are all in the .arness again for one more year if—well you know what it is bet- er than I do, books, slide rules, and the like which go to make up college course. All of these Jadgets don’t worry me one bit oecause I take the courses sorta nonchalant as it were and if I ¡don’t succeed, well it’s all apropos to the character of the Idle night ^student.I see Carnegie has taken to the Jr according to an announcement n last week’s Tartan. Dr. Baker naugurated the series and several members of the faculty are sched­uled to give talks from time to ime. The Tartan is not to be out­done by this ascendency to the ethereal waves on the part of the mentors at our institution so the air will be thickest on Mondays at 5:35 p. m. when the "Campus Notes’’ will be flung to the four winds by no less a personage than our worthy Editor'. The station to ¡propel the hot .shots will be 
WWSW.
Speaking of hot shots brings us to Puppet. Yes sir, The Puppet has turned over a new leaf for the year—think of it—only ten cents for a copy of this humorous maga­zine. That sure is a bargain coun­ter item. And by way of double inducement they too are taking to the air with a broadcast feature •each week. Think of it, The Pup­pet and a space on the air each week Via Radio all for ten cents. Say we aren’t Scotch. Many a ‘augh will be secured at the small lost of ten cents. Did you say ten jents? Yes, I said ten cents.Say It isn't so—that school will .start next week. It is hard to pic­ture the summer being over and time for another year of—well whatever you wish. I thought 1 would have a lot of time on my hands before we started in to march out to the campus. Think of the many nights of thrills which are In store for us this year. Pic­ture If you can walking over the “cut” with the wind blowing a gale of 110 miles an hour and by way of diversion you start to chase your elusive hat down the ravine. These and many other pleasant •thoughts and memories will be •ours when we matriculate for an­other year at Carnegie seeking to •enrich our store of knowledge so that we will be able to combat the cruel world In its demand for edu­cation.
I was out to the Campus last week to look around for any {changes to report, but I am sorry to relate that I couldn’t see any big •change. It; may be that I had on dark glasses or that it was too dark to see (the time oC my ap­pearance was 10:00 p. m.) At all events I just couldn’t see any diange. However, I’ll keep my feather eye open for any change hd just as soon as I note any I’ll lug about it. I know a couple of eople who always have informa- lon on the new things and 1m- I’ovements which are to take place nd I am going to Interview them, la.vbe they can put me wise to the hanges.
One thing I did notice, was that ic grass was green and I’ll bet the nrdener spent a pleasant summer linking about his trip abroad last 
Jmmer. No doubt he learned ome new stunts on how to make le grass grow greener because it urely does appear greener than /er before. There is something 
du sorta spread on it to make it *ow, the name has slipped my 
lemory, but then how should I be eld responsible, I’m not a horti- jlturist.
Speaking of taking to the air, tey have all done It, the College, he Tartan, The Puppet, guess 1 itter do likewise and in the pro- rbial fashion of the air malce r exunt with “So long until next .ek”—That was the Idle Night udent of station PLAID who will . _ turn again next week at this same hour. The Tartan bids you all "Good Night.”
FOR YOUR OLD PEN
toward the purchase of 
the latest, streamlinedW. L. “Ike” Walton’s 
and Elinor Savoge’s 
new Palace of Pleasure 
is located on the Bab­
cock Boulevard, where 
you are able to dance to 
good music every even­
ing. October 8 is Tech 
Night, when a special 
25c cover is granted on 
presentation of your 
registration card.
World’s Style and Quality Leader
Still time if you hurry to get the great $5 Duofold Jr. 
or Lady Duofold—latest streamlined model—for 
only $3.75 and an old pen, or the famous $7 Parker 
Duofold Sr. Pen with over-size ink capacity for only 
$5 and an old pen. Or the great $10 Parker Duofold 
Sr. DeLuxe for $7.50 and an old pen.
The old pen you trade in does not have to be a 
Parker—;we only require that it shall have a 14k 
gold point. . \
Old mechanical pencils, any kind or condition* 
accepted as 75c to $1.00 cash toward the purchase 
of a fine streamlined Parker Duofold Pencil to 
match the pen.
Parker is holding this National Trade-in Sale to 
reduce retail' stocks, making way for late fall and 
Christmas shipments. Never such an opportunity 
before—probably never again—to get the world’s 
finest pens and pencils for school and business, and 
get such a big cash allowance for your old ones. | 
But Parker reserves the right to withdraw this 
offer at any time—so.take your old pen or pencil to 
the nearest pen dealer at once. The Parker Pen 
Co., Janesville, Wisconsin. Z2a
ELABORATE FLOOR SHOW EVERY EVENING
Juryless Shows 
Are Popular Here
STUDENT S' SUPPLIES 
FORBES STREET, Between Oakland Avenue and Boquet St. 
10% Discount to StudentsSCHOOL BELLS CALL 
ELDERLY STUDENTS
Coming directly on the heels of the Depression Art Show held re­cently in the shadow of the tower of recreation and fake gothic dec­orations, is the news that juryless art shows are to be in vogue here this winter.Several Tech students and grad­uates are members of the group of young artists, who are deter­mined to teach the people of Pitts­burgh the habit of attending art shows regularly.
Realizing that they must keep abreast of the young college grad­uates to hold their positions, elder­ly men and women are registering for courses in English, mathemat­ics and other elementary subjects in the high school of'Temple Uni-; versity and other colleges.The general demand by firms and corporations throughout the country for college bred men and women to fill even minor positions -has caused them to fear for their jobs in these days of depression, it is believed, hence the reason for this sudden thirst for knowledge.Just an empty victory the boys will agree. They were probably engaged in laying plans for mak­ing the college football team all the while, and ignored the old con­test.
ÎJENKINSÆOUD3
CarnnegihtHS
Pen Repairing
SMALL GIFTS
AN UP-TO-DATE EATING PLACE FOR PARTICULAR PEOPLE
Jack’s Coffee Shoppe and Restaurant
TABLE, BOOTH AND COUNTER SERVICE SUPERFINE COOKING
TELEPHONE: SCHENLEY 953-1 
327 SOUTH CRAIG STREET PITTSBURGH, PA.
QUALITY FOOD COOKED AND SERVED AS YOU LIKE IT
Singer’s “fit” your hand 
PROGRAMS FAVC
Pitty the poor art critic who is expected to replenish his supply of adjectives for each review, and feign a tolerant attitude toward the works of budding geniuses.
Girls are reported to have taken first and second prizes and cap­tured 10 of 14 honorable mentions m ?t.n essay contest conducted for high school seniors, on the pur­poses of colleges.
A course in lovemaking has been instituted at Middlebury. Members of the senior class will act as dem­onstrators, and faculty members have announced their Intention of enrolling in the course.
THE FALL OF 
CONSTANTINOPLE
"Nature in the Raw’'—as por­
trayed by Thomas Webb... in­
spired by the savage slaughter 
of 5000 Christian defenders— 
at the hands of the vengeful, 
barbaric horde of 250,000 
men under the ruthless 
Mohammed II—14531
Pointing the way to the
advertised brand
The University of California now offers an elementary course in fish­ing. Practice is held in the Univer­sity’s swimming pool.
HOW TO AVOID BONERSMany a “sale” made by advertising has gone 
to a competitor because the purchaser did not 
know where to buy the advertised brand. Tele­
phone men evolved a plan to make it easy to find.
They created a “Where to Buy It” service in 
the classified telephone directory. There—beneath 
the advertised trade marks—Buick, Goodrich, 
RCA Victor, General Electric and many others 
now list authorized local dealers. Thus telephone 
men complete the chain between advertiser and 
consumer—increase the effectiveness of advertis­
ing—help manufacturers and dealers to increase 
sales — help consumers to get what they want!
Because they apply vision to subscribers’ prob­
lems, Bell System men continually increase the 
value of telephone service.
—and raw tobaccos 
have no place in cigarettes
THE UNITED STATES 
IS LOCATED IN THE 
TEMPERANCE ZONE
P
OOR BILL BONER-he just 
can’t think straight. He thinks 
a person is safe from contagious 
•lisease if he is intoxicated!
But no college man ever pulls 
ooners with a good pipe between his 
eeth. There’s something about a 
pipo and tobacco that soothes a man, 
helps him think straight. That is, of 
bourse, if he uses the right tobacco. 
A reccnt investigation showed Edge- 
>orth to be the favorite tobacco at 
3 oiit- of 5b leading colleges.
If you're not already an Edgeworth 
molcer, there’s new smoking satis- 
.action waiting for you. Edgeworth’s 
blend of fine old burleys is distinc­
tive, different. You’ll know — after 
*ihe first puff.
They are not present in Luckies 
. . . the mildest cigarette 
you ever smoked
[V7"E buy the finest, the very W finest tobaccos in all the 
world—but that does not 
explain why folks every­
where regard Lucky Strike as 
the mildest cigarette. The fact 
is, we never overlook the 
truth that "Nature in the 
Raw is Seldom Mild”—so
these fine tobaccos, after 
proper aging and mellowing, 
are then given the benefit of 
that Lucky Strike purifying 
process, described by the 
words—"It’s toasted”. That’s 
why folks in every city, town 
and hamlet say that Luckies 
are such mild cigarettes.
You can buy Edgeworth tobacco 
anywhere in two forms—Edgeworth 
Ready-Rubbed and Edgeworth Plug 
Slice. All sizes—15fi pocket package 
to pound humidor tin. Or, if you 
would like to try before you buy, 
write for is. free sample packet. Address 
Larus & Bro. Com­
pany, 120 S. 22d J
St., Richmond, Va.BELL SYSTEME^he ghlChtf 1J G.Da &nlC.fO
"If a man write a better book, preach a better sermon, or make a better mouse-trap than his neighbor, tho he 
build his house in the woods, the world will make a beaten path to his door. ”—RALPH WALDO EMERSON. 
Does noc this explain the world-wide acceptance and approval of Lucky Strike?
DGEWORTH SMOKING TOBACCOA NATION-WIDE SYSTEM OF INTER - CONNECTING TELEPHONES

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY. OCTOBER 4, 1932
FROMSPECIAL OFFER
FOR TECH STUDENTS ONLY
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2G00 
After Office Hours Call 
.Schcnlcy 0430 Sports Editor.___Hazel 3473 I'lnid Editor..WELL, HAD WE KNOWN—
To think that we were left out. ’Tis rumored that four Carnegie lads get all the breaks. It was in the middle of the afternoon, so the story goes, that an extra special hurry-up, no delay call came to the Employment Bureau office for four handsome men to conduct some very, very, very beautiful artists’ models around the Jennerstown Fair in some brand spankin’ new Chrysler jobs.Miss Merrill,
________________________—i knowing that
of handsome ---------- men hang out
-----Hr------------------—------------- 1 iu the^StudentJjT-BL——-------- _ : Council office,
------¿-1^1-------------------------— eye get out for
said office viaphone.
Here’s the sad part of the story. Rang the bell. One Kronnenberg, Lazarus, and Robinson (making three all together) wishing to pick up a few dollars on the side (or any place else, for that matter) answered the call to arms, being joined while madly dashing up the hall by Jim Fergus, printer, diplomat, politician, athlete, lady’s man (no relation to Benny Franklin, Plebe). The. tough part of it was that “Two Bricks” Robinson couldn’t make the height—just the case of another career nipped in the bud, and so Charley “Bet You Can’t Pronounce It” Schatvet was substituted.
They found out that they were to be movie stars. Imagine. Gosh, did our bashful Fergus go for that. After promenading before the boss of the shebang, the boys were dismissed for the day.
The next day they learned, so the story goes, that they made such a hit that it was thought best to import professionals from New York. And to think, none of the boys are dramats. Page Mr. Kenyon.
chestra had just finished playing “Friends” and “Violets” and Max had been dancing with a cou­ple of other bozos.
Editor-in-Chicf — 
Business Manager
.Schcnlcy 9580 
.Schcnlcy 2389
Published weekly during the college year by undergraduates of Carnegio Institute of Tcchnoloiry. Entered in the Pittsburgh Post Office as second-class mutter.
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF_____________________________________________________JOHN W. LADD
BUSINESS MANAGER____________________________________________JULIUS HALPERNNEWS EDITOR________________________________________________ELIZABETH PRELLERATHLETIC EDITOR-------------------------------------------------------------------JOSEPH C. BRONSONPLAID EDITOR_____________________________________________EDWARD E. McDONALD
ANOTHER DANCE—
The Alumnae dance brought back to the cam­pus many of the old grads. Jane Croyle tended the gate. Of course, the Traa-McNary duo was there and Jack Morris and “Posy” Mitschelen, Fran Snyder with Harold Cadmus, Eleanor Lemon and Ammon Godshall, “Nan” Sloan and her little brother, Charlotte Ball and Harry Morris (excuse me, it’s Mr. and Mrs. now) and Mrs. Louise Wilt Bull and her husband, and the one and only Frank “Flatfoot” Foote,” of “From the Fence” fame in year gone by, with Betty Steel, ex-campus queen. Mary Boucherle and Fred Becker were there, too.
Starting today and continuing during the month of October, we will allow a
IO% DISCOUNT
ASSOCIATE EDITORS 
Copy Editors: Christine Leighou Alumni Editor: Henrietta SteinbergDolly Allison Exchange Editors: Marjorie Dougherty
Harry Hower Ruth PhillipsAssignment Editor: Anthony Camvale
On any purchase made in this store only.
We will also present a souvenir (whether a purchase is made or not) to 
any student presenting this advertisement at the
National Men's Shops
SChenley 9389 3713 FORBES STREET
MANAGING BOARD THIS ISSUE .Tacque Mlnnotte, Samuel Wicks, Joseph Adams, Alice Henzi
JUNIOR EDITORS: Joseph Adams, Anthony Cacchionc, Loretta Conlin, Alice Henzi, John Hiltz, Edmund McCormick, Samuel "Wicks, Jacque Minnotte.
ATHLETIC STAFF: Gloria Kloos, Women’s Editor; Ned Stirling, John Lowes,
James Hnlferty. ,
PLAID STAFF: James H. Sansonctti, News Editor; Frank Cassel, A. N. Evens, H. 
E. McGannon.
ADVERTISING STAFF: James E. Stahl, Manager; William Waldman, Assistant; Morton Garmise, Loren Kannenberg, John McGrane, 'William McKenna, William 
Sauvary.
CIRCULATION STAFF: William Flnglass, Manager; Sidney Feldman, Leonard Ro­senberg, Albert Pryce-Jones, Abe Leipzig.
REPORTERS: J. Clifton Carr, Jane Livingston, Herbert Schwarz, Constantine Mar­
garet Griffin, Veronica Mennmu Anna Ladd, ’ Virginia Cooper, Thelma Shelley, Gertrude Breakstone, Jayne Henderson, Peter Pauius, Ruth Cohen, Harold Baer, 
Pauline Bevan, Jannette Black, Mirain MalakofT, Gwen Haddock, Ruth Gustafson, 
Jane Miller.
TYPISTS: Lucille Jacobs, Ann Kaufman.
THIS AND THAT—
Speaking of alumnae, “Dorie” Mather is at it again. Headlines and a picture right on the front page of the morning scandal sheet^ and all for sleeping nonchalantly at the home of a friend. Seen at the game: Nice day, Kiltie band making its confetti letters, a well-drilled band from East Liverpool High School with a chip out of the crossbar of the “H” in TECH, something new in paper waving, weak cheering A1 Minnetti and the Instatoote.Interfrat Council 
Donates Paintings
A date for as iittle as a dime may be had through the new date b. reau of the Arkansas Polytechni College here.
A sliding scale governs thi prices. A boy asking a date mus 
submit four names. If he gets fin. choice, he pays a quarter; second twenty cents; third, fifteen cents; and fourth, a dime.
SOUP TO FISH, AND TAILS—The sweet melodies of Will Ryshanek’s orches­tra and the happy throng of dancers led many to proclaim the first football dance of the year the best event of its kind held on the campus in some time. Will has acquired a set of tails and a KDKA, N. B. C. banner, to say nothing of a b o u ncirig,stick twirling ______________________d r u m m e r, «3 <since he re-
sheep skin
give us more; I:it’s what we -----------------------—A-1 •' —
like. Wewondered wliat architect would be first . . . Marion Jones and “Morry” John -teamed most of the struggles. Oh my, so many people were there. Let’s see. Peggy Neidringliaus and Lee Nutter, Mary Stewart and Sam Wicks, all the great big football mans, Gladys Hippie and Bobby Smith, Jimmy Stahl playing old clothes man look­ing for Glorious. Many old timers back . . . Campus Queen Mary McKeon with a new one, Kernal Holloway, Jimmy Leonard, Ray Knopf, Jack Horning (late arrival) and oodles of others. Could we forget last year’s fencer, V. McBride? We could not.At 11:15 sharp the “as advertised” act was pre­sented with Co-captains “Hook” Sample and “Georgie-Porgie-Pusli-’em-up-Clark” Kavel taking bows from the platform. Ira Kuhn (not I. Rac­coon) emulating the great crooner with mega­phone in hand,’ pranced back and forth.
Concert Tickets
May Be Bought
Continued From Pago 1
—Escudero, Spanish Dance Sensa­tion.5. Thursday evening, January 26—John McCormack, Famous Ten­
or.6. Friday eveninf, February 3—• 
Vladimir Horowitz, Pianist.7. Tuesday evening, March 14—• 
Don Cossack Russian Singers.II—Art Society Concerts—
1. Friday evening, October 21—• 
Albert Spalding, Violinist.2. Friday evening, November 18 —Lotte Schman, Prima Donna.
The Interfraternity Council Pamphlet
A pamphlet explaining in part the fraternity situation at 
Carnegie has been issued this fall to freshmen for the first time 
by the Interfraternity Council. "While the pamphlet is not as 
complete as it might be, it is a notable attempt by the council to 
inform the freshmen of the advantages of fraternity life. It is 
hoped that this innovation is an indication of the interest that 
will be shown by members of the council in fraternity affairs 
during the coming year.
One of the most important problems the council faces 
at the outset is the formulation of adequate and, if possible, sat­
isfactory rushing rules. Although considerable time was de­
voted to this problem last year, the outcome was nothing further 
than the handing down of a set of rules for consideration this 
year. The recommended changes were in many places too in­
volved and, if applied in the present form, would only cause 
more complications and dissatisfaction.
There are several worthwhile recommendations which 
should be seriously considered by the council. Among these are 
the ones for the alleviation of the present system of contacting 
freshmen, the reduction of rushing expenses (an absolute neces­
sity this year), and the enforcement of rushing regulations.
The initiative for the formulation of a satisfactory system 
must come from the various fraternities through their repre­
sentatives on the council, for it is only by conscientious en­
deavor and concerted action through regular fraternity meet­
ings that the representatives on the council can know the true 
sentiment of the fraternal groups at large.
Upperclassmen And Assemblies
In giving Delta Skull, men’s junior class honorary society, 
direct charge of the planning of general student assemblies this 
year, the Student Council is to be commended for placing the 
planning of the programs in the hands of an organization which 
should be capable of stimulating greater student interest for 
this worthwhile Carnegie institution. This society, in co-opera- 
tion with President Baker, Dean Green, Dean Tarbell and the 
Student Council, is laying plans for an interesting series of pro­
grams for the coming year.
In the past, upperclassmen have had a tendency not to at­
tend assemblies, either because attendance was not required or 
because they have not been sufficiently interested in the pro­
grams. It will be interesting to see what success the junior 
class honorary will have in' assuaging this indifference on the 
part of upperclassmen.
The interfraternity Council has 
donated to the “Y” club room 
paintings of all the campus fra­ternity seals. The seals, which are twelve inches long and nine inches wide, are now hung in the club room.
Josef Lentz, a sub-senior in the Department of Painting and Decorating, is responsible for the 
art work done on the seals. They are hand-painted in the official colors of the fraternities, and are encased in narrow black frames.
AVENUE
IT’S JUST ONE DANCE AFTER ANOTHER—
The past week saw the social season get under way with all notables on deck. We understand that it officially got started at the Phi Kappa house Wednesday night. Ask Bill McKenna.
The Plebes found out Wednesday that a tea dance is not a tea dance. The Mortar Boards, that austere group of young ladies from the se­nior class, let the cat out of the bag last Wed­nesday afternoon. A bunch o.f the old gang was there. Yessir! Even Logan Webster of hunt- the-job fame was on hand with one Evelyn Gam­ble. Frank Schneller, Brad Edelblut, Joe Bron­son, and all the rest of the printers were right in the thick of things. Advance notice was served on the Sigma Nus that the Delts are going to be a real threat for the title of the noisiest dancers on the campus when Ernie Schleusener demonstrated a mighty mean “shag.” ’Tis ru­mored that daily sessions are being held over on Clyde street. The major tragedy of the after­noon occurred when Joe Lentz discovered the or-
809 Liberty Avenue Evenings -10c 
"Art Knows No Class, Nor Creed”
BEG. MONDAY, OCT. 3, at 11 a. i 
LIANE HAID and WILL FORST
“Das Lied is Aus”
(THE SONG IS OVER) 
Acclaimed by critics as the best) Gor­
man talkio of the year.
With Super-Imposed English Titles.
PRINTER
6470 Monitor Street
Dean Tarbell 
Writes Book 
On Cape Cod
Volume Is Result Of 
Many Summers On 
The Sea Shore
that it has been largely a labor of love, and that he passes on to his readers a wealth of entertaining information, touched with con­siderable charm and humor.”
The book takes up the towns as one journeys through them, trav­eling south from Boston, out to Provincetown and back on the southern shore and tells anecdotes of characters belonging to each and calls attention to old houses and curious landmarks. Dean Tarbell has included many fine half-tone cuts showing historic spots and typical scenes. “Cape Cod Ahoy!” is a cheery travel
book for any one visiting the Cape 
for the first time to read enroute.
An Asset to College 
StudentsGraduate Of Carnegie 
Droivns In Michigan
Sidney Smith, 28-year-old elec­
trical engineering graduate of Car­negie, drowned in Muskegon river off Mestigo Park; Michigan, north of Croton Dam. Mr. Smith had been spending his honeymoon in Neway­go, Mich., with his bride of eight 
days, who was Miss Rosalind West- gate of Grand Rapids.
—Is largely a matter of considering the fact that 
quality is always the best economy. Your selection 
of genuine Champion Domestic Coal for example 
will go a long way in helping you balance that re­
duced family budget. Champion is rich in heat units 
—lasts longer and therefore saves you money on 
your winter fuel bill.
Make Champion your next fuel buy. Call Grant 3121.
Pittsburgh CoaS Company
Retail Department 
306 Diamond Street« Grant 3121
College men and women, ac­
customed to regulating their 
own expenditures and planning 
their own budgets aro receiving 
valuable training in handling 
money that will provo benefi­
cial in afterlife. In thiH con­
nection, xi bank account is an’ 
important) asset to people of 
colloge ago. Tho Mellon Na­
tional Bank is always- glad to 
rocoivo tho nccounta of collogo 
Btudont’fl.
Dean Tarbell has recently writ­ten a book for the summer visitor at Cape Cod entitled, “Cape Cod Ahoy!” This book is the result of the author’s enthusiasm and love for this ocean outpost and of a search for all scenes and stories likely to prove interesting to the stranger visiting 'these shores. The comment has been made, “Dean Tarbell knows his Cape by virtue of Twenty seasons spent in roaming its nooks and c'orners, and by virtue also, if one may in­terpret between the lines, of much more time than that spent in read­ing and research. He has, in con­sequence, brought to light many attractive bits of the Cape, present and past, that are likely to prove fresh offerings to even those old- timers, the native born and the veteran cottage folk. It is quite evident that he has been unhur­ried and painstaking in his work,
Mellon National Bank
Pittsburgh, Pa.Of All Things!
Behold, sophomores, Carnegie has another freshman class! 
Those people on the campus wearing dinks, armbands, black 
ties, and black socks are freshmen—nearly six hundred of them, 
too.
Maybe we are wrong, but our somewhat unsteady memory 
recalls that as freshmen—that was oh so long ago—we were 
told that Carnegie had a few traditions. Yes, even several 
songs and one or two of those raucous, guttural rumblings 
sometimes referred to as cheers. And mind you, we were told 
that we must speak to upperclassmen—of all things!
Has the depression caught your spirit in its clutches, sopho­
mores?
CHAMPION COAL
ALL-AMERICAN ?
Students Urged To 
Acquire Knowledge
’ Continued From Page 1
praisal. It is too limited by mo­mentary prejudices in human con­duct. As late as the nineteenth century men were passive in thought, but by the second half of that century the passive democ­racy had become an active one and no traditions of public opin­ion remained.
Therefore, “we must not expect society to be guided by its pro­fessors until—the fluctuating opin­ions that now govern affairs are replaced by clear, settled moral values.”
Recognition of tliis difficulty of human conduct would ' aid im­measurably in settling the schol­ar’s troubled spirit. He would be 
encouraged to preserve that de­tachment from affairs which his instinct demands. If lie is still moved to intervene he could do so not as a scholar but as one more 
amateur. His chief duty in the crisis is, however, to understand, so that the next crisis may be more intelligible.“The immediate has never been 
the realm of the scholar. His provinces are the past, from which he distills understanding, and fu­ture, for which he prepares in­sight. The immediate is for his purpose a mere fragment of the past, to be observed and remem­bered rather than to be dealt with and managed."“I. doubt whether the student can do a greater work for his na­tion in this grave moment of its history than to detach himself 
from its preoccupations, refusing to let himself be absorbed by dis­
tractions about which, as a scholar, he can do almost nothing. For this is not the last crisis in human affairs. The world will go on some­how, and more crises will follow. It will go on best, however, if among us there are men who have stood apart, who refused to be anxious or too much concerned, who were cool and inquiring, and had their eyes on a longer past and a longer future. By their example they can remind us that the passing moment is only a mo­ment,"
Enrollment Remains 
Same Despite Times
Continued From Pago 1
vately endowed schools are ex­
periencing much greater decreases 
while publicly endowed institutions 
have been able by cutting tuition 
costs to maintain their enrollment.
The enrollment in the College of 
Engineering is now 747 marking 
an increase of IS over last year’s 
figure of 729. This year’s eroll- 
ment is distributed as follows: Special, 7; graduate, 32; senior, 3 65; junior, 250; and sophomore, 
293.
The College of Industries has shoAvn the largest drop with a total of 1S4 this year and 277 last for a decrease of 93. The decrease is 
attributed partly to the transfer of 
several courses from this college to the College of Engineering. This year’s total includes: Special, 12; short-course, 2G;_, senior, 49; junior, 59; and sophomore, 38.The freshman Engineering and Industries class shows the next largest drop with a figure of 31S against last year’s 392 for a de­crease of 7-1. This decrease will probably be made up next year 
when many are expected to enroll who have postponed their entrance a year.The College of Fine Arts shows a decrease of but 10, with a figure of 573 against last year’s 583. This dllToronce In all probability will bo made up by late registrants. A capacity enrollment lias been re­corded in this colloge for several years. This year’s total is dis­tributed by classes as follows: Special, 17; short-course, 7; gradu­ate, 1; senior, 101; sub-senior, 22; junior, 125; sophomore, 142; and freshmen, 15S.The enrollment in the Margaret Morrison Carnegie College is vir­tually the same as that of last year with a figure of 454 as com­
pared to 4G9. The class enroll­ment is as follows: Special, IS;senior, 129; junior, S2; sophomore, 106; and freshmen, 119.The Library School enrollment of 17 seniors and two special stu­dents is slightly under last year's total of 24.
"YES, I LIKE 
to smoke Granger. I have 
tried all kinds of tobacco; but, 
frankly, I have never found 
any other that is as good as 
Granger.
"I think I know something 
about tobacco, and I should 
say that Granger is the one 
tobacco that is made just 
right for pipes.”
Here is one neat line-up of football articles made to order for 
YOU—a winning team of All-American players and writers in action.
Jerry Dalrymple, Tulane, kicked off in the September 24th issue. 
Just look at this schedule for October — and then watch for our 
November line-up:
1.0! The Poor Tackle, by Red Grange.©
“Eckie^’fcj Ring Lardner.
Bench-Warmer, by Ilarry A. Sluhldreher 
and W. Thornton Martin.
Do Football Players Think? by
John Baker, All-American Guard, U. S. C.
© 1931. Liccin-r & st-ba Toiucco Co. .
The tobacco that’s right — and the pack­age that’s rightA tic is very nccessary and very popular. 
Gracc is one of our loveliest in Raven bla :k, 
Javanese brown and Paddock green. Vamp 
of suede, quarter of kid. Low heeled styles 
also provided in scycral patterns.
533 Liberty Avenue 
6016 Penn AvenuePIPE TOBACCOGRANGER IS AMERICA’S
