Weekly 
Bulletin 
Boord— 
See Page 2
Tartan 
Football 
Contest— 
See Page 5
VOL. 49—No. 2CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGYTUES., SEPT. 27, 1955
Contract Awarded For First Frat Unit
Beta, Du Houses To 
Be Complete Next Fall
t ù H n o .. a $ B
New Fraternity Dorm
This is an architect’s drawing of the new building which will house Beta Theta Pi and Delta 
Upsilon. Construction will begin as soon as the old DU house is razed and Forbes Street is resurfaced.
Students’ Apathy Is 
Leadership Problem
As a result of a conversation between the president of Mortar 
Board and Dr. Dale Strick, as well as a result of the increasing mur­
muring discontent on campus, this weekend a leadership conference 
was held. There the problems of leadership were presented and
discussed. Attendant at this ad-4--------------- '------------------------------------
ministration-sponsored conference wr j mi ankee Yarns 1o 
Dominate Campus 
At Homecoming
were leaders and representatives 
of almost all the organizations on 
campus.
Friday night at a dinner held in 
Morewood Garden’s' Blue Room, 
Dr. Norman Dawes of the history 
department gave the key-note ad­
dress, attacking the apathy of uni­
versity students of today, with 
special reference to Carnegie Tech 
students. Dr. Dawes expressed the 
feeling that with the passage of the 
years he has been with Tech, cer­
tain changes in the attitudes of the 
students have come about.
Lack of Leaders
Due to the wars and the shift in 
political and economical views, 
people have begun to shy away 
from taking the initiative and ex­
pressing their opinions. There is a 
tendency now for students to fol­
low and imitate, letting the “other 
fellow” take the lead. Not only do 
students, and society in general 
hang back from active school and 
community participation, but they 
have taken a growing “againstive” 
attitude. It was pointed out that 
little in a positive way can be ac­
complished when people fall into 
apathy and “againstism.”
In a general discussion follow­
ing Dr. Dawes’ address, the student 
leaders put forth questions and 
opinions concerning the attitudes 
Of both the leaders and the student 
body presently at Tech. Appar­
ently the major problem is getting 
the student body interested, teach­
ing the leaders the techniques of 
leadership, and establishing a 
working system of cooperation be­
tween the administration and the 
students, especially in the Co- 
Ordination of curricular and ex­
tra-curricular activities.
¦ Discussion Groups
Saturday morning at nine 
ofclock, the students assembled in 
the union to take the ideas pre­
sented the previous evening and 
discuss them in greater detail. Di- 
[Continued on Page 8]
Carnegie Day
Any honorary or other or- 
ganization presenting an 
award, making a call, or hav­
ing any other reason for be­
ing represented on the plat­
form Carnegie Day must no­
tify Ed Feigenbaum by Sep­
tember 27. Call JA 1-7687 or 
write Box 402, Carnegie Tech 
Post Office.
The senior honoraries, Mortar 
Board and Omicron Delta Kappa, 
made known last Thursday the 
theme that will thread through this 
year’s Homecoming activities, 
Yankee Yarns. Paul Bunyon, Tom 
Sawyer, and Moby Dick, among 
others are the central ideas around 
which attractive fraternity dis­
plays will be built and amusing 
sorority shows staged.
Displays and shows are, of 
coui’se, only a minor pai’t of the 
annual “welcome home” weekend 
October 21, 22, and 23. In addition 
to the fraternity and sorority 
competitions, including the pledge 
class cheers, there will be a tre­
mendous program to keep every­
one busily entertained.
Alumni Activities 
The Alumni Association, work­
ing very closely with Mortar Board 
and ODK, has already scheduled 
Homecoming festivities for the 
alums. With the Carnegie Day ex­
ercises officially starting the week­
end, the alumni will be wined and 
dined so thoroughly that there 
seems to be little time for rest. 
They will undoubtably leave here 
with many fond memories.
At the same time, the under­
graduates will also have more than 
enough to keep them busy. To 
make things easier, classes will 
end at 12:30 Friday. There will be 
enough time for a quick lunch 
[Continued on Page 6]
Student Council
There will be a Student 
Council meeting Wednesday, 
September 28, 1955, at 4:30 in 
Room 100, Porter Hall.
Council Names 
Seven Aims
By Pat Mitchell
Student Council convened Wed­
nesday, September 21, with high 
resolves and the. energy and power 
to effect them. President Ed Pas- 
ierb enumerated seven points 
which he recommended to the 
Council as aims, among which 
was, “Student government must 
maintain a challenging program 
for its constituents,” and “Student 
government must learn to take the 
initiative in fulfilling duties.”
A new Student Union is the 
biggest gleam in Council’s col­
lective eye right now. Also on the 
agenda for the coming year is the 
establishment of a committee to 
evaluate student activities as to 
purpose, program, and results, to 
see how many of our activities 
can justify their existence.
Constitution Revision Due
Constitution revision, a much- 
called for and extensive job, will 
definitely be affected this year. 
Many powers of Council lie fallow 
which could be used for the bene­
fit of the student body. Ed Feig- 
enbaum proposed that the powers 
of the publications committee, in­
cluding the power of review and 
censure of editorial policy, be 
temporarily vested in Pi Delta 
Epsilon, the journalistic honorary, 
since the power has been used less 
than a campus such as Tech’s, with 
three periodical publications, 
would warrant. This motion was 
passed unanimously. Pi D E twill 
work as a subcommittee, reporting 
directly to Student Council.
Dale Strick called for Council’s 
aid in establishing an official all­
school calendar in the Dean of 
Women’s office. Such a calendar 
has existed for many years but 
has gradually fallen into disuse.
[Continued on Page 8J
Dr. John W. Graham, Dean of Students, announced Wednesday 
the awarding of a contract covering the construction of the first 
of a proposed five new fraternity housing units. George W. Chilii,
who built Donner Hall, submitted the low bid and will begin con-
---------------------——-------------------- —estruction as soon as possible.
j Plans call for a unit of two dis- 
' tinct L-shaped houses joined under 
one roof. It will be located on the
corner of Forbes Street and Devon
Road, where the former DU house 
is already being razed. Moving-in 
day is scheduled for September, 
1956. The Betas and DU’s will oc­
cupy the first group. A second unit, 
to be located at the corner of 
Forbes Street and Morewood Ave­
nue, is the administration’s next 
objective.
The new housing plan is the re­
sult of months of planning and 
preparation. After many confer­
ences with fraternity advisers, fac­
ulty, administration, and frater­
nity alumni and undergraduate 
members, Tech's trustees approved 
the designs of architect Lawrence 
Wolfe, Tech class of i944.
Individuality is Keynote 
A fraternity man himself, Wolfe 
planned to meet the demands of 
space and ground limitations most 
effectively, while maintaining low' 
cost and, most important, preserv­
ing individuality within each unit. 
A solid wall between each pair of 
houses will insure corporate entity. 
Only the basic structures are alike. 
Individual fraternities can choose 
their own front and rear court de­
signs and brick patterns.
Each house, with approximately
110,000 cu. ft., is designed to sleep 
36 men. In addition there will be 
flexible dining facilities to meet all 
fraternity needs. On the first floor 
will be lounge, dining, trophy and 
kitchen areas, as well as space for 
a visitor's lounge, powder room, 
or housemother's suite.
Recreation rooms, snack bar, and 
a chapter room will be provided in 
the basement. The second and third 
floor sleep-study rooms will be ar­
ranged to each fraternity’s prefer­
ence.
Keeping with the ideas of flex­
ibility and individuality, each fra­
ternity will decorate and furnish 
its own interior. The houses will 
be constructed so that fireplaces, 
which are not included in the 
[Confinticd on Page 8]
J arsity C-Club Dance
First all-school function of the 
season.
Saturday, October 1, 1955.
9 until 1.
Informal.
Bill Leroy and his orchestra.
$2 per couple.
Tickets in Skibo, at the door, or 
from any C-Club member.
First Religious 
Assembly Planned 
October Fourth
The first assembly in the relig­
ious emphasis program at Carnegie 
Tech will be held Tuesday, Octo­
ber 4, at 11:30 a.m. in the Fine 
Arts Theatre. Bishop G. Bromley 
Oxnam, Bishop of the Methodist 
Church, Washington area, will 
speak to an open meeting of stu­
dents and faculty.
The series of assemblies 
throughout the year will be spon­
sored by the Committee on Re­
ligious Activities, an organization 
composed of students, faculty, 
alumni, administration, and chap­
lains representing the three major 
faith groups on campus. From time 
to time during the school year 
prominent laymen and clergymen 
from each of the three faith groups 
will be invited to speak from his 
own faith, tradition and convic­
tions.
All Invited
All students are invited to all 
assemblies, regardless of whether 
the speaker is of one’s own partic­
ular faith. The assembly on Octo­
ber 4 will be the responsibility of 
the Student Christian Federation 
Council. Those which follow will 
be under the auspices of the News­
man Club, the Catholic students’ 
organization, and the Hillel Foun­
dation, the Jewish student associa­
tion.
Bishop Oxnam received his A.B. 
from the University of Southern 
California, did graduate work at
Bishop G. Bromley Oxnam
Famed Minister To Speak Here
Boston University, Harvard, Mas­
sachusetts Institute of Technology, 
and in London, Japan, India, and 
China. He had received numerous 
honorary degrees, his latest being 
the Th.D. degree from Budapest 
Reformed Theological Academy, 
Budapest, Hungary, in 1955. Begin­
ning his career as a pastor, during 
which he founded the All Nations’ 
Church in Los Angeles, he had 
served as a professor in various 
colleges, president of DePauw Unt- 
£Continued on Page 8]
Pep Rally
There will be a pep rally held 
in the Bowl on Friday night, 
September 30, 1955. The theme 
will be, naturally enough, “beat 
Lafayette.” Starting at 7:15 p.m.. 
the Kiltie Band will march from 
the Fine Arts lawn to the fra­
ternity houses. Morewood Gar­
dens, and the men’s dorms, en­
tering the Teeh Bowl at about 
8 p.m. Fraternity pledges, have 
your torches ready!
Plans and Programs Committee 
Student Council

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, September 27, 1955
Debate Club
On Wednesday, September 28, at 
4:30 p.m. in AH 229-B, the Debate 
Club will hold its first general 
meeting of the year for new mem­
bers. Any freshmen or upper­
classmen interested in debate, 
travel, and adventure are wel­
come. The ranks of the club are 
thin this year because of the loss 
of more than half of last year’s 
membership.
The club’s activities include 
participation in tournaments at 
schools throughout Pennsylvania, 
as well as in Ohio, West Virginia, 
Virginia, and New York City. The 
final activity is the annual Tartan 
Tournament here at Tech. The 
first proposition to be debated this 
year is: Resolved; That nonagri- 
cultural industries should guaran­
tee their workers an annual wage.
Kiltie Band
Any freshman or upper-class- 
man interested in joining either 
the marching or concert band is 
encouraged to see the director, 
George Reynolds, or phone MA. 
1-2386 after 7:00 p.m.
Any freshman or upper-class- 
man interested in learning to play 
the bagpipes should see Mr. Dav­
idson on any Tuesday at 4:30 p.m. 
in Thistle Hall.
Emerson Club
The Emerson Club, under­
graduate group at the First Uni­
tarian Church, announces that Dr. 
Tobias Dunkelberger of the Pitt 
Chemistry department will discuss 
“The Universe and Man” at the 
First Unitarian Church, Ellsworth 
and Morewood Avenues, on Octo­
ber 2, 1955 at 6:30 p.m. This is one 
of a series of programs sponsored 
by the Emerson Club and will in­
clude a supper preceding the 6:30 
discussion with recreation after­
wards.
American Chemical Society
New officers for 1955-56 for the 
CIT Chapter of Student Affiliates 
of the American Chemical Society 
are as follows: Glenn I. Henrick- 
sen, president; Carl T. Zovko, 
vice-president; and John E. 
Kennedy, secretary-treasurer. The 
chapter plans a full schedule of 
activities for the current year and 
invites all persons interested in 
chemistry to attend the meetings.
Radio Club
An organizational meeting of the 
new CIT Radio Club will be held 
Thursday, September 29, at 4:30, 
in room 112 of the Engineering 
hall.
The Tech Radio Club, which 
is being reorganized by a group 
of interested upperclassmen, is 
asking old members to attend this 
meeting, as very little is known 
about the club’s past activities. 
Freshmen and upperclassmen who 
are interested are also invited to 
come to the meeting.
For the benfit of those new­
comers to the school, Tech has a 
1000 watt transmitter and other 
valuable transmitting equipment 
available for the club’s use. One 
of the aims of the new club will 
be to re-activate W3NKI, the ham 
radio station.
Persons interested in joining 
may contact Bill Carr or Dick 
Hartman at MU. 2-9252 or Bob 
Sorkin at MU. 3-2822.
ROTC DM5 Awards
The Department ‘ of Military 
Science and Tactics has recently 
posted a list of this year’s dis­
tinguished military students. This 
designation is conferred on those 
ROTC students who have proved, 
n their military studies and during 
summer camp, to be outstanding 
cadets and prime officer material.
Those selected from the Corps 
of Engineers are: Mario G. Ar- 
lotti, Paul C. Borland, Jr., James 
W. Boyd, II, John M. Daugherty, 
Ronald F. Draper, John C. Herr, 
Lawrence Kronenberger, Steven 
E. Mapes, George Mikk, Richard 
J. Pape, David L. Shuck, James
H. Smith, Edward J. Swoboda, 
Stephen K. Tarby, and Jerome R. 
Wojtas.
From the Signal Corps, those 
chosen are: Woodward C. Carter, 
Donald Gross, Jere W. Hohmann, 
George P. Lang, Thomas D. Mock, 
John M. Senko, and Louis J. 
Teti.
WRCT Officers
Rado Station WRCT wishes to 
announce the election of its ex­
ecutive board for the year 1955- 
56. Elected are: station manager, 
Phil Stein; business manager, Paul 
Lang; program director, Tim Day; 
special program director, Blake 
Berning, publicity director, Sally 
Beltz; advertising manager, Con­
nie Bielski.
Music director, Vic Nelson; 
adio engineer, Jan Hall; audio 
engineer, Bill McWilliams; chief 
•nnouncer, Ron Abrams; contin- 
ity director, Delores Prus; per- 
>nnel director, Mike Fenati; op­
iating engineer, Claude Gibble.
Alpha Phi Omega
There will be a meeting of Al­
pha Phi Omega service fraternity 
on Thursday, September 30, at 4:30 
p.m. in the Carnegie Union. Any­
one interested in membership is 
urged to attend. Refreshments will 
be served.
Art Open House
The College of Fine Arts and 
its advisory committee for the 
Pittsburgh Plan for Art are hold­
ing an open house from September 
26 to October 2 at the Pittsburgh 
Plan for Art headquarters, 1251 
Negley Avenue, in Pittsburgh. 
Dean Norman L. Rice of Fine Arts 
is director of this plan.
Music Guild Concerts
The Music Guild of Pittsburgh 
has announced its Charter Con­
cert Series for the 1955-1956 sea­
son under the slogan of “Great 
Music for Greater Pittsburgh.” 
This series will consist of five 
concerts in Carnegie Music Hall 
and will feature Walter Gieseking, 
Jennie Tourel, Jussi Bjoerling, 
Virtuosi Di Roma, and the New 
York Concert Choir with the New 
York Concert Orchestra. Students 
may obtain season tickets at the 
reduced rate of $5.00 from Prof. 
Pearson in the music department.
Student Tickets 
For Symphony 
Noiv Available
"Reduced rates for students will 
be the rule again this year at the 
symphony concerts at Syria 
Mosque, according to an an­
nouncement made by the Pitts­
burgh Symphony Society. Student 
tickets are on sale on the Car­
negie Tech campus at Mrs. King’s 
desk in the Registrar’s Office all 
this week and next. Special prices 
in the student section are $5.00 for 
the 12 Sunday afternoon concerts, 
and $9.00 for the Friday evening 
series of twenty performances in 
the subscription series.
William Steinberg, musical di­
rector and conductor of the Pitts­
burgh Symphony Orchestra, has 
announced the complete program 
schedule for the Orchestra’s 
twenty-ninth season, which opens 
at Syria Mosque on October 14.
Guest Conductor to Come
Dr. Steinberg, who will be re­
turning for his fourth season with 
the Orchestra, has invited as 
guest conductors Virgil Thomson, 
Fernando Previtali, and Eduard 
Van Beinum. Associate conductor 
Karl Kritz will conduct three 
concerts during Steinberg’s mid­
season leave of absence.
Heading the star-studded list 
of guest soloists are five who will 
be making their first appearances 
with the Pittsburgh Symphony. 
They are Marian Anderson, Grant
Miss Ruth Shinn
New YMCA Director* * *
Miss Ruth Shinn 
Assists With 
Religious Affairs
Miss Ruth Shinn has been ap­
pointed Director of the YWCA 
and associate co-ordinator of re­
ligious affairs. Both posts were 
newly created this year and were 
made possible by the interest of 
the Pittsburgh YWCA, the Pit- 
cairn-Craske Foundation and the 
Pittsburgh Foundation. Her ap­
pointment is another step in the 
strengthening of the resources at 
Carnegie Tech for serving the re­
ligious needs of our campus.
Miss Shinn is a native of Ohio, 
a graduate of Heidelburg College, 
and holds a Bachelor of Divinity 
degree from Yale University Di­
vinity School. Before coming to 
Carnegie Tech, she spent three 
years as an English teacher in 
Istanbul, Turkey, and four years 
as executive director of the YWCA 
at the University of Nebraska. 
She has had wide experience in 
work camps and conferences in 
Europe, the Near East, and the 
United States.
Miss Shinn’s office will be lo­
cated in the Carnegie Union.
In Apologia
The Thistle wishes to apologize 
to Charles Laughton, Joseph 
Bercsi, Norman Berkow, John 
W. Kurtz, John F. Borre, Jon 
Ramer, Donald Dennison, and 
any others whose pictures ap­
peared anonymously on the 
TARTAN page. Any resemblance 
to anyone, living or dead, who 
ever was on the TARTAN staff 
is purely coincidental.
Printing Students Given More 
Freedom In Course Selection
Demand for Carnegie Tech printing management graduates ia 
the graphic arts industry has caused the school to extend its pro­
gram of study, and a greater variety in the curriculum has been 
----------------------------------? introduced.
The four and two year basic 
management options have been re­
vised primarily to give the stu­
dent greater freedom of electing 
management courses in his senior 
year. More instruction in photo­
lithography has been included and 
courses in photographic composi­
tion have been instituted.
Students from other colleges and 
universities will now be eligible 
for admission in the two-year 
management option at the end of 
their junior year. In the past, only 
college graduates were admitted to 
this program.
New Programs
In addition to these changes, the 
School of Printing Management is 
inaugurating two new four-year 
programs, a graphic arts technical 
option and a graphic arts design 
option.
The technical option will com­
bine the study of graphic arts 
processes with science and ele­
ments of engineering technology.
The graphic arts design option 
was tailored to fit demands of 
printing firms and other agencies 
which plan, design and prepare 
art work for printed products. The 
option combines the study of 
graphic arts processes with courses 
in typography, drawing, painting, 
and pictorial design in creative 
planning and product development.
These innovations and expand­
ed curricula will enable the Car­
negie Tech School $f Printing 
Management to provide profes­
sional education for all phases of 
printing and allied industries. The 
school was first in the United 
States to offer college level in­
struction in the graphic arts lead­
ing to an academic degree.
Sophomores Win 
Pushball Contest 
On Muddy Field
Friday. September 23, loomed 
dark and dreary, but, despite drip­
ping foliage and soggy sidewalks, 
the Pushball Game rolled off as 
scheduled. At four-thirty, the 
freshmen and sophoomores began 
to arrange themselves at opposite 
ends of the soccer field as the 
Scrimitars rolled the mighty 
pushball, borrowed from Wash­
ington and Jefferson College, onto 
the field of battle. Both factions 
stood grimly determined to 
manuever the great bag of wind 
across the goal line, for there was 
at stake the vital questions: Who 
will wear the dinks to the Fresh- 
man-Sophomore Hop — the Frosh 
or the ex-frosh?
Each team, twenty men strong, 
was more than adequately re­
inforced throughout the contest as 
passers-by stopped to lend a help­
ing push and a bit of moral sup­
port to the gladiators. Freshman 
girls offered a welcome note of en­
couragement to their “defenders” 
with an extemporaneous cheering 
squad, which came up with such 
original and scholarly chants as: 
“F-R-E-S-H-M-E-N, Freshmen!” 
As the game progressed, the books, 
pencils, and glasses of the pushers 
were being pounded into the turf 
in increasing numbers; so the 
spectators performed double duty, 
holding the belongings of the team 
members as they cheered.
After a remarkable display of 
field manuevers, it was unani­
mously agreed upon that the 
sophomores had emerged victor­
ious by the score of two goals to 
one freshmen goal. Both teams 
felt that the game had been judged 
with impartiality and justice, and 
the names of the referees are 
withheld only because they are too 
modest to accept further acclama­
tion for their fine work.
Lost and Found
(See Bob Marik, 304 Boss Hall)
1. Long black comb
2. Red plastic mechanical pencil
3. Green and gold ball point pen
4. Key ring with General Motors 
key and one other key.
5. Pencil eraser
In Sympathy
The securer of the pushball 
wishes to extend sincere sympathy 
to the person who lost the cap off 
his tooth during the battle.
Johanneson, Zara Nelsova, Nicanor 
Zabaleta, and Julian Olevsky.
Among the famous and great 
artists making return appear­
ances with the Symphony are 
Robert Casadesus, Szymon Gold­
berg, Yehudi Menuhin, Rudolf 
Serkin, Isaac Stern and Andres 
Segovia. All have scored brilliant­
ly here in the past.
ATTENTION!
STUDENTS AND FACULTY
FORBES TRAVEL SERVICE
ALL INTERNATIONAL AND DOMESTIC AIRLINE, STEAMSHIP, RAILROAD AND BUS.
ALL RESORT AND COMMERCIAL HOTELS
YOU NEVER PAY MORE THAN THE 
ADVERTISED RATES THRU FORBES
FREE TICKET DELIVERY 
5800 Forbes St., Pgh. 17, Pa. (Sq. Hill) JA 1-7300
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
WILLIAM STEINBERG, Musical Director and Conductor
29th SEASON OPENS OCT. 14 and 16
Friday Evenings and Sunday Afternoons at Syria Mosque
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES
12 Concerts $E00 20 Concerts $Q00
Afternoon Series Evening Series Jr
Tickets at Mrs. King's Desk in Registrar’s Office

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, September 27, 1955—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page 3
WRCT Signs On Air* 
New Schedule Planned
On Sunday, October 2, WRCT,'Radio Carnegie Tech, begins its 
broadcasting year. For those wishing to turn to 670 on their ÀM 
dials, WRCT has some big things in store. A revised broadcast sched­
ule is going into effect this year which is designed to keep both
Tech’s'“midnight oilers” and “af-^---------------------------------—--------------
ternoon drowsers” company.
WRCT’s record library is jam­
mer with over 500 discs ranging 
from classical, through light class­
ical and jazz to popular. But this 
is only the beginning; WRCT plans 
to boost its inventory by keeping 
its shelves well stocked with the 
new releases. Many of these are 
made available to our campus 
station before they reach the 
market. This gives the Tech plat­
ter spinners a scoop on what is 
up and coming in the popular and 
lHi-Fi fields.
Besides music, this year’s sched­
ule includes a number of feature 
programs. Among these will be a 
campus religious activities show; 
novelty music programs featur­
ing (?) Tech Talent. Two dra­
matic productions are also planned 
for those who can’t stand TV.
Many positions on the station’s 
staff are still vacant. If, therefore, 
you have any inclinations in the 
radio line, drop into the “down­
stairs studio” in the Union or 
write to: WRCT, Box, CIT campus 
mail. No willing hand will be 
turned away.
On Campus
with
Maxôhuiman
(Author of “Barefoot Boy With Cheek" etc.)
ANYONE FOR FOOTBALL?
Pancho Sigafoos, pale and sensitive, first saw Willa Ludovic, 
lithe as a hazel wand and fair as the morn, outside a class in 
money and banking. “Let us not hem and haw,” said Pancho to 
Willa. “I adore you.”
“Thanks, hey,” said Willa, blushing prettily. “What position 
do you play?”
“Position?” said Pancho, looking at her askance. (The askance 
is a ligament just behind the ear.)
r"\sm apoet-'-VimtP'crieJ Vsact^
“On the football team,” said Willa.
“Football!” cried Pancho, his lip curling in horror. “Football 
is violence,- and violence is the death of the mind. I am not a 
football player. I am a poet.”
“So long, mac,” said Willa.
“Wait!” cried Pancho, clutching her lissome young forearm.
She placed her foot on his pelvis and wrenched herself free.
“I only go with football players,” she said and walked, shim­
mering, into the setting sun.
Pancho went to his room and lit a cigarette and pondered his 
vexing problem. What kind of cigarette did Pancho light? Why, 
Philip Morris, of corris!
Philip Morris is always welcome, but never more than when 
you are weary and sore beset. When a fellow needs a friend, 
when the heart is dull and the blood runs like sorghum, when 
darkness prevails, then, then above all, is the time for the mild­
ness and gentleness that only Philip Morris can provide.
Pancho Sigafoos, his broken psyche welded, his fevered brow 
cooled, his synapses restored after smoking a gentle Philip 
Morris, came swiftly to a decision. Though he was rather small 
for football (an even four feet) and somewhat overweight (370 
pounds) he tried out for the team—and tried out with such pluck 
and perseverance that he made it.
Pancho’s college opened the season against the Manhattan 
School of Mines. The Miners were always a mettlesome foe, but 
this year, strengthened by four exchange students from Gi­
braltar who had been suckled by she-apes, they were especially 
formidable. By the middle of the second quarter, the Miners had 
wrought such havoc upon Pancho’3 team that there was nobody 
left on the bench but Pancho. And when the quarterback was 
sent to the infirmary with his head driven into his ribcage, the 
coach had no choice but to put Pancho in.
Pancho’s team-mates were not conspicuously cheered as the 
little fellow took his place in the huddle. “Gentlemen,” said 
Pancho, “some of you may regard poetry as sissy stuff, but 
now in our most trying hour I can think of no words more apt 
than these lines from Milton’s Paradise Lost: ‘All is not lost; 
the unconquerable will and study of revenge, immortal hate, and 
courage never to submit or yield!’H
So stirred was Pancho’s team by this fiery exhortation that 
they threw themselves into the fray with utter abandon.
As a consequence, the entire squad was hospitalized before 
the half. The college was forced to drop football. Willa Ludovic, 
not having any football players to choose from, took up with 
Pancho and soon discovered the beauty of his souL Today they 
are seen everywhere together—dancing, holding hands, smok­
ing, smooching.
Smoking what? Why, Philip Morris, of corris 1
Religious Series 
Begins On Campus 
Radio Station
On October 2, WRCT will 
present the first in a series of 
religious programs. These pro­
grams will feature addresses by 
prominent clergymen of the Pitts­
burgh area, interviews with as­
sembly speakers, and campus dis­
cussion groups.
The first program of this series 
will feature an address by Dr. 
John C. Warner, President of 
Carnegie Tech. Dr. Frederick Ros­
sini, chairman of the faculty com­
mittee on Religious Activities, will 
introduce Dr. Warner.
Future programs will include 
addresses by Reverend Irving 
Murray; Father Berkmeyer, Chap­
lain of the Carnegie Tech Newman 
Club, and Rabbi Morris Feldman, 
Chaplain of the Hillel Foundation.
Mr. Sam Gibson, coordinator of 
religious activities at Carnegie 
Tech, is assisting the station in 
selecting speakers for this series.
Student Council 
Resolves Rules
Student Council wishes to an­
nounce the following resolution, 
governing all school functions:
“During thora hours when an 
all-school event is taking place, 
no fraternity may (a) serve beer, 
pop, or any other form of refresh­
ments between the hours of 9 p.m. 
and 11 p.m.; (b) fine their mem­
bers for missing any form of 
meeting if this meeting takes place 
during an all-school event.” Mov­
ed and passed by Student Council, 
October 22, 1954.
This rule will be enforced by 
members of Studeiit Council who 
wjll check the fraternity houses 
on the night of an all-school 
event, between the hours of 9 p.m. 
and 11 p.m. The names of those 
fraternities not complying with 
this rule will be handed in to the 
Dean of Women and no chaDerons 
will be scheduled for those frater­
nities for a period of time decided 
upon by Student Council.
BecauaB of the time limit, Stu­
dent Council will assume full re­
sponsibility of enforcing the 
above rule on the night of the 
Varsity “C” Club Dance, October 
1, 1955. But, it is hoped that a 
working agreement may be reach­
ed with CFP as to future policing 
action of the fraternities on the 
night of all school events.
Well Known Author 
Teaching At Carnegie
By Sally Day
Gladys Schmitt, an English teacher in the Fine Arts department, 
is well-known throughout the country. She has written many novels 
and has made a name for herself in the field of journalism.
Born in Pittsburgh in 1909, she is the daughter of Henry H. and 
Lenore Schmitt. Miss Schmitt be-*
gan her career at an early age by 
writing poetry. She carried this 
talent with her into high school 
where, in 1927, she won a prize in 
a national poetry contest sponsor­
ed by Scholastic magazine. At the 
age of eighteen she had finished a 
450-page novel which dealt with 
the Danish conquest of England. 
However, this was never publish­
ed.
When 1" came time for Miss 
Schmitt to enter college, she de­
cided to go to the Pennsylvania 
College for Women. Later, she 
transferred to the University of 
Pittsburgh where she studied jour­
nalism on a five-year scholarship. 
While at Pitt she attained many 
honors. One of these was being 
elected president of the University
position prize for two years in a 
row, and she was graduated in 
1932 magna cum laude.
After graduating, Miss Schmitt 
became a member of the editorial 
staff of Scholastic magazine and 
went to work in the New York 
office. It was during this time that 
she started work on her prize- 
winning first novel, The Gates o/ 
Aulis. When this book was estab­
lished as a success, she returned 
to her beloved Pittsburgh. She and 
her husband still reside here, and 
she spends much of her spare time 
in reading, her favorite recrea­
tion.
One of her most famous novels 
is David, the King, which was pub­
lished in 1946. This summer Miss 
Schmitt completed her latest
Quill Club. She also won the com- novel, The Persistent Image.
The maker* of Philip MorrU, who bring you this column ernek 
week, remind you that the perfect companion to wetching m foot­
ball game i$ today 's gentle Philip MorrU»
CFP Evaluating 
Rush Week With 
Student Opinion
CFP held its first regular meet 
ing of the school year on Monday, 
September 19, 1955, at the Kappa 
Sigma house. Dale Strick, the new­
ly appointed Coordinator of Stu­
dent Activities, was on hand to 
replace Ben E. David as adminis­
tration liaison to the council.
A committee in conjunction with 
the dean of students is currently 
evaluating rush week. Reports on 
the past rush week will be sub­
mitted to the dean and the com­
mittee by the individual frater­
nities. Opinions of both the new 
pledges and the active members 
will be expressed in the reports. 
It is hoped that results of their 
efforts will ease next year’s an­
nual anguish.
Plans are in progress to con 
tribute again this year to Shady- 
side Boy’s Club in their fall car­
nival. Each fraternity will operate 
a booth for the benefit of the Boy’s 
Club.
Bob Lindsay, Delta Upsilon, has 
been elected Chief Justice of the 
CFP Court of Justice, which re­
solves any differences arising be­
tween houses. The council will 
meet bi-weekly throughout the 
remainder of the year.
Ground was broken for CIT’s 
campus in the spring of 1905 
and in the following fall students 
were accepted for both day and 
areaing classes in engineering 
and architecture.
Been Thinking of Buying A Car?
Before you buy any car of any make, NEW or USED, see: WALLY DONOGHUE, 101 WELCH HALL 
HE WILL GET THE CAR YOU WANT
AT THE PRICE YOU WANT!
MU 3-0242 or AL 1-3200
Announcing the lSeic
ENGINEERING THEATRE
featuring films about Sports Cars, Engines, Airplanes, Ships, Atomic Power, Electronics, Radio, T.V., Petroleum, Metals, Tools, and 
Hundreds of Other Interesting Topics
Every Tuesday at 12:30; E.H. 1112 
All Students and Faculty Welcome
sponsored by
AMERICAN SOCIETY OF MECHANICAL ENGINEERS 
and SOCIETY OF AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERS IN CONJUNCTION WITH AIEE-IRE & AICHE
50 million tunes a day 
at home, 
at work or 
while at play
There’s nothing like a
1. BRIGHT, RIGHT TASTE 
tangy, bracing, ever-fresh.
2. FAST REFRESHMENT... 
a bit of quick energy for a 
wholesome litde lift.
ftOTTlEO UNDE* AUTHORITY O* THE COCA-COLA COMPANY If 
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF PITTSBURGH 
57ÎÎ Center Arense Hilan«! l-;oi
W • r*,Ut.cd tro*, mock. O »«I COCA CO IA COMPANY

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, September 27, 1955
Fitting together the missing pieees.
Retaliation
Editorial—
Some Serious 
Backpatting
The Carnegie Tech Leadership Confer­
ence which was held this past weekend 
proved to be a valuable source of ideas and 
suggestions on how to improve leadership 
and participation in general in all the ac­
tivities on our campus. (See page 1). This 
conference, which came up rather unexpect­
edly to most of the students involved, was 
something new to Carnegie Tech and was 
chiefly the product of Mortar Board .and Dr.
Dale Strick, Coordinator of Student Activi­
ties. Dr. Strick’s title is also something new 
to Tech and is a post created this year as 
part of the general reorganization of the Stu­
dent Personnel and Welfare Department. Al­
ready this confabulation has been an ex­
ample of the achievement we may expect 
from the new organization.
Never before had there been an assem­
blage of the actual leaders of campus activi­
ties. The members of Student Council, the gov­
erning body of the students, are usually not 
the people who have the real power of activi­
ty leadership. Therefore, there was a need for 
some kind of gathering of leaders, so that they 
could meet their fellow leaders and discuss 
common problems. This is exactly what took 
place last weekend.
Some of the concrete ideas evolved in the discussion 
groups are specially worthy of mention. One was to con­
tinue orientation through several weeks after classes 
commence. It is just such a program in which former Dean 
of Students Ben E. David is now participating at the Uni­
versity of Miami. Another was to establish some sort of 
leadership program which wrould continUally develop better 
leaders. This might be done through speakers and a course 
offered by the school.
We particularly favor a suggestion which would put some 
teeth into Student Council. It was proposed to reorganize it so 
that members would not be elected from the various depart­
ments, but one delegate would be appointed from each organiza­
tion. Finally, it was almost unanimously agreed that there should 
be another meeting of these leaders to carry their discussions 
into specific problems, to take some definite action and to evaluate 
the action already taken. We believe this meeting should be 
held within three weeks to carry things on before the enthusiasm 
dies out, and to avoid conflicts with Homecoming and mid­
semester exams.
Many problems were discussed with no immediate solu­
tion being proposed. We have already heard these problems 
discussed many times before, but not by the people who 
have the power and initiative to do something about them.
Two of those discussed were how to get commuters into 
activities and how to breach the gulf between the Fine 
Arts School and Engineering and Science. Committees to 
further investigate these matters are expected to be ap­
pointed in the near future, and already a group of especially 
interested students are working on the latter problems.
Such ambition and such a wealth of ideas have long been 
lying dormant on our campus with no outlet for action. It re­
mained for a few energetic students and some enthusiastic mem­
bers of the administration to call a conference and get represen­
tatives of the many diversified activities together into a single 
group. The response of the students involved was extremely 
good.
We wish to commend Dr. Strick, Dean Graham, and 
Mortar Board for being the powers behind this caucus, and I M fraternity men are forced to live in 
also the leaders of the leaders for the fine job done. We ! tments or dormitories because of limited 
hope that more such conferences will be held and that some­
thing will soon be accomolished in the way of putting the 
ideas into practice. If the perennial problems of CIT could 
be solved, the Tartan wou'd be relieved of the perennial job 
of complaining about them. R.H.R.
Upon receipt of our shining new 1955 
Thistle, we turned eagerly to the Tartan 
page, and were greeted by a display of such 
cleverness and originality as is rarely seen 
in a college yearbook. The Thistle staff is to 
be complimented for their cunning and taste­
ful handling of the situation.
Every so often, the Tartan publishesfa hu­
morous issue which is entitled the Carnegie 
Natrat. It is indeed flattering to see that the 
Thistle has also adopted this policy. However 
the book is notable for one grave error, that 
being that in order to prepare the unsus­
pecting reader for the tone of the contents, 
it should have been entitled the Eltsiht.
Were last year’s editorial staff of the year­
book still on campus, something on the order 
of a duel at Homecoming might be appro­
priate. At any rate, it is rumored that there 
will be a six dollar refund for every Thistle 
captured intact and returned to the Thistle 
office.
Editorial—The New Houses
The fraternity-dormitory .contract signed 
last Monday will probably be critically and 
often heatedly discussed by both students and 
faculty. “Fraternity living will be no better 
than dormitory living,” others will insist.
Few will argue, however, that new houses 
are not needed. Some of Tech’s fraternity 
j houses, built in the early 1900’s, are near the 
1 end of their life spans. Houses are inade­
quate and their maintenance is expensive.
-amegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Telephone 
; after hours MUseum 1-9846. for advertising and subscription 
?nley 1-8851. Published weekly during the school year except 
:amination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Tech- ?h 13, Pa.
¦ss Ma 
Kditor
... Robert Russell
.................Vic Shiry
.............Marjo King
...Tom Wright
...........Richard Fox
Stephan ie Mackay
on October 4, 1907. ai
3. 1879. Accepted fo 
rt of February 28 1925.
t the Post Office at 
r mailing at special
study and sleeping facilities in their houses.
Financing new, individual houses with 
sleeping, dining, and parking accommoda­
tions comparable to those of the proposed 
duplexes would impose an impossible burden 
on most fratenities.
The best private homes large enough to 
house a fraternity are far from the campus. 
Furthermore, these structures were intended 
for one family use, not for fraternity activi­
ties. Their inflexibility leaves no room for 
future planning and expansion and would 
only lead eventually to the space and main­
tenance problems plaguing fraternities today.
Perhaps there is a better solution to the 
housing problem, but if there is, none have 
advanced it.
What is the point of this discussion? Just 
this—on many campuses fraternities are sup­
pressed, ignored, or merely tolerated by the 
administration. Carnegie Tech, however, has 
repeatedly shown itself anxious to encour- 
*» i° j age fraternity living and to help fraterni-
Inquiring Reporter—
Freshman Week
By Sally Day
Last Spring, the Cwens and Scimitars worked 
out a new program tor this year's Freshman Ori­
entation. They hoped Hint with this new system 
there would be more school spirit. The two organi- 
ations worked for a more organized Freshman 
Week and more activities that would acquaint the 
freshmen with Tech The TARTAN has made in­
quiries of various students about their impressions 
of the first week of school. Perhaps their replies will 
be useful in planning future Freshman Weeks.
Mary McClure, Junior, Home Economics—I 
think that the l'reshmen were more impressed by 
the activities during Freshman Week than they 
have ever oeen. I also feel that they were very 
enthusiastic.
Denny Henneman, Freshman. ME—I think that 
the program for freshmen was well organized, and 
it gave us a chance to meet a lot of people. I also 
think that everyone was very helpful. I especially 
enjoyed the social functions.
Dee Denari, Sophomore, Secretarial—I do not 
feel that the dink-wearing was enforced any. bet­
ter this year than last. The kids wore them in the 
beginning, but interest began to lag. I felt that the 
freshman orientation was successful when I was 
a freshman, and I think that it has been carried out 
in the same successful manner this year.
Linda Rash, Freshman, General Studies—I 
thought it was very nice, and it was wonderful 
meeting all those people. I’m glad we had a week 
to do' it. No other time would have served its 
purpose.
Bill Harris, Freshman, Printing—I thought it 
was pretty well organized, although some of the 
things were a nuisance. I thought that it was a 
very good idea that we were introduced to the 
faculty.
Mary Tinker, Senior, P&D—I thought more 
kids attended the functions, but people still aren't 
wearing their dinks. The fine arts department par­
ticipated more this year in Freshman Week than 
in previous years. I didn't think there was as 
much interest shown in extra-curricular activities 
—the kids were more interested in the social pro­
gram.
Bill Yeakel, Junior, Printing—I think this was 
the best since I’ve been here. It still needs im­
provement because the rest of the campus won t 
get behind it.
Ken Wilkins, Sophomore, Architecture—I think 
that it was very good as compared to last year. 
The freshmen were very co-operative.
“Chris” Gengebach, Freshman, Home Economics 
—I think it was the finest I have ever heard of— 
fully detailed with social functions. It gave me a 
good chance to meet my fellow classmates and 
upper classmen.
Mary Jane Stevens, Freshman, Home Economics 
—I thought it was a lot of fun. I got a chance to 
meet a lot of the administration, and I also got to 
know my way around the campus before classes 
started. It gave me a good chance to become ac­
quainted with the various activities.
Peggy Heath, Sophomore, Secretarial—I think 
the freshmen last year had more enthusiasm than 
this class does. I have also received the impression 
that the freshmen feel they know enough without 
orientation. Not too many kids are interested in 
organization.
Calendar
Tuesday, September 27, 1955
6:30—Phi Tau Gamma Organizational Meeting. .
............................................ Dorm Council Room
9:00—Men’s Dorm Council Meeting ... Donner Hall 
Wednesday, September 28, 1955
4:30—YWCA All Membership Meeting..............
............................................ MM Recreation Hall
Thursday, September 29, 1955
4:30—Committee on Religious Activities..........
.................................................... Carnegie Union
4:30—Cwens—All Freshman Women Nomination
of Freshman Queen Candidates ..................
...................................................... MM Rec. Hall
Friday, September 30, 1955
7:30—Citcom Square Dance .................. Girl’s Gym
8:00—Newman Club Party ............ Carnegie Union
8:00—Painting and Design Students Get Acquaint­
ed Party ................................................ FA—416
Saturday, October 1, 1955 
9:00—Varsity “C” Club Dance—ALL SCHOOL..
............................................................ Men’s Gym
ties attain their highest objectives. That the 
trustees and faculty spent so many months 
preparing a housing program is another out­
ward sign of the administration’s concern for 
fraternities.
At least one fact is evident.—regardless of 
the outcome of the housing plan, Tech’s fra­
ternities are here to stay.
R.F.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, September 27, 1955—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page 5
Scrapping Skibos Lying 
In Lair For Lafayette
At Forbes Field this Saturday, 
^Tech opens its 1955 season against 
a.revenge-minded Lafayette team 
in what will probably be the Tar­
tans’ toughest game of the season. 
In preparation for this game, 
Coach Eddie Baker’s boys have 
been working diligently in the 
Skibo Bowl. Last Saturday the 
Tartans trampled Slippery Rock 
by a score of 27-7 in a practice 
scrimmage. Outstanding perform­
er for Tech was Frame Smith, 
4^ who has been lighting for the left 
half slot along with Tom Briner. 
The Georgia flash reeled off some 
dandy broken field running and 
was responsible for two of Tech’s 
tallies. It looks like this perform­
ance will give the Colonel a start­
ing berth in Saturday’s opener.
However, Tech’s chances for a 
good season definitely rest with 
the unmatched Wengrzyn, Ramsey, 
and Kohan who are expected to 
4»' be line stalwarts. Again this year 
Tech will use a rockem-sockem 
ground game with passes few and 
far between. The defense will be 
strong but will lack adequate air 
protection. However it seems few 
teams Tech plays pass till they’re 
too far behind.
The starting lineups will prob­
ably be:
Right End—Ficery—6' 1"—185 lbs. 
^ from Wilmerding. Good pass
. catcher when he gets loose.
Great on defense. One of last 
year’s stalwarts.
Right Tackle — Ramsay — 6' 1"— 
200 lbs. from Carnegie. Very 
rugged, however has no experi­
ence as a tackle. Good on de­
fense. However is .a question 
mark because of a back injury. 
60 min. man.
Right Guard—Karcher — 5' 11"— 
^ 190 lbs. from Carrick. Best all
* round lineman on the team.
Great linebacker. Fast. Possible 
all-state. 60 min. man.
Center—Kohan — 5' 11"—180 lbs. 
Good linebacker. Fair on de­
fense. Very rugged. Debatable 
starter because of a bad knee 
cartilage.
Right Guard—Tagliavani—5' 10"—
185 lbs. Tough. Good all-round 
lineman. Chief drawback is a 
lack of experience.
Right Tackle— Wengrzyn—6' 3"— 
220 lbs. Great. 60 min. man. If 
his leg holds up a possible all- 
state.
Right End—Hrosik—5' 11" — 200
lbs. from Homestead. Good on 
defense. Only fair pass receiver
due to eyes, line blocker. Has 
a fragile ankle.
Q. B. —Tucci — 5’ 11' — 185 lbs. 
from Clairton. Fine ballhandler 
and good passer. Tough on de­
fense, however is possibly slow 
for a safetyman. Conservative 
signal caller.
Left Half—Smith—from Georgia. 
Speed personified. Once in brok- 
iContinued on Page 81
TARTAN FOOTBALL CONTEST
For Games on October 1, .1955
Team
Carnegie Tech 
Army
Georgia Tech 
Duke
Holy Cross
Lehigh
Navy
Ohio State
Oklahoma
Maryland
Princeton
Northwestern
Alabama
Illinois
Purdue
Score Team
........ Lafayette
........ Penn State
......... Southern Methodist
..... Tennessee
...... Dartmouth
........... Delaware
.......... South Carolina
...... Stanford
.......... Pittsburgh
.......... Baylor
.......... Columbia
........... Tulane
........... Vanderbilt
...... Iowa
........... Minnesota
Score
NAME....................................................DEPT.CLASS
PITTSBURGH ADDRESS
A 1956 Thistle yearbook will be awarded to the winner of the 
TARTAN'S weekly football contest.
Read the contest rnles below and fill in and deposit this coupon 
in the intra-school mail box, addressed to the TARTAN. All coupons 
must be entered by midnight Friday to be eligible for the following 
day’s games.
Contest Rules
X. Only CIT students will be eligible to compete.
2. Each contestant will predict not only the winner, but also the final score 
of the game. Entries will be judged on the number of correct decisions; in case 
of ties, entries will be judged on the correctness of the scores.
3. All entries must be sent to the Tartan through intra-school mail by midnight 
Friday of the contest week to be eligible for consideration.
4. Each student may submit only one entry. If more than one entry is sub­
mitted by a student, he or she will be disqualified.
5. Entries will be judged by the Tartan sports staff and the winners will be 
announced in the issue following the contest. Decision of the judges is final.
6. Winner of each week’s contest will receive a 1956 Thistle subscription, re­
deemable at the time of publication.
Tech’s Cross-Country Course
The course starts and ends at the foot of Flagstaff Hill.
Tartan Thinclads 
Set For Jeannette
Coach Bob Carman’s thinclads will open their season this Satur­
day, cruising over the short but difficult 3.8 mile course through 
Schenley Park. Mrs. Carman, the team managers and a few of the 
faithful will probably be the only spectators unless a few of you 
students take a little time and*-----------------------------------------------------
come to see Tech’s only consist­
ently winning athletic unit, a team 
which has been ahead in the won 
and lost column since 1949.
The event will start at approx­
imately 11 o’clock Saturday 
morning at Westinghouse Pond 
near the gymnasium and I. A. 
Building.
Midwestern fans line the whole 
five-mile distance of the courses 
for similar events in that section 
of our country.
As indicated by the past few 
weeks workouts, it appears that 
Bill and Larry Bryant, Capt. Jim 
Flynn, Bill Whitman, flashy fresh­
man from Central Catholic, and 
Ray Whitney will make up Tech’s 
first five with a struggle between 
four other men for the sixth and 
seventh position. Big question 
mark on Coach Carman’s mind 
right now is the ailing right leg 
of Dave Brodine, a returning let- 
terman froqj last year’s squad. 
Dave has been nursing the ankle 
for a few weeks and is having 
trouble with his recovery.
The competition this Saturday 
will be among the finest available. 
The Jeannette Harriers is made up 
of graduated collegiate stars from
Pitt, Carnegie Tech and other 
schools.
Your editor hopes that the stu­
dent body will respond to this 
year’s squad and give them the 
boost that will make the differ­
ence between the championship 
and second place at Tri-State 
meet on November 4.
Co-Rec Volleyball
All girls who are interested in 
participating in co-rec. volley­
ball should rontact Miss Bar- 
tholemy. All men who are inter­
ested should see Mr. Birdy at 
the I.M. Office. Entries are due 
by Oct. 3; play begins on Oct. 11.
IM Football
Anyone interested in referee­
ing touch football games at SI.00 
per game see Mr. Birdy in the 
I.M. Office.
All players must have had a 
physical exam before participat­
ing in any games and must wear 
ankle-wraps in the games.
YOU’LL BOTH GO FOR THIS CIGARETTE!
Iti WINSTON all OWl alOaWÁ !
WINSTON
tie
^¡l&i cqa/ijsfe !
¦ College smokers know Winston’s the filter cigarette that really 
tastes like a cigarette! Winston’s real tobacco flavor really comes through to 
you — smoothly and easily — because Winston’s exclusive filter works so 
effectively. Try a pack! See for yourself: Winston tastes good — like a cigarette should!

---------------------------------------------------

Working engineers of P & W A, 
waiting for classes to begin 
at fLPJ.’s new graduate center. 
Courses imHade Aerenautkaf Engineering.
Physics, MatfeônatkÂ, 
Nuctear Techm>fogy, 
Wanagemenf Training.
P*ffe 6—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, September 27, 1955
Intramural Football 
Finds Teams Tough
Alpha Tau's Defending Champions
The intramural sports campaign for the ’53-’54 season began 
yesterday afternoon at 4:30 when six teams met on the field next 
to the Tau Delt fraternity. Kick-off time started the most popular 
intramural sports, six man football. The teams are vieing for the 
title held by last year’s champions,?----------------------------------------------------—-----------—
ATO. In last year’s playoff ATO 
defeated KS in a thrilling contest 
29-25.
The loss of a large number of 
the top players through gradua­
tion will leave this year’s trophy 
race wide open. However, ATO 
seems to be the team to beat de­
spite the loss of intramural foot­
ball’s “Most Valuable Player” Mul­
ler and all-star Bartocci. Strongest 
competition is expected from SN, 
KS, and DU, who each have sev-
eral top-flight players returning mg season
from last year’s strong squads. 
There are a couple of fraternity 
teams and several strong inde­
pendents who will be playing the 
role of “dark horse” and are ex­
pected to give the favorites trou­
ble.
All in all this year’s race is ex­
pected to be tight with everyone 
eyeing the championship trophy. 
The results should provide a thrill-
WAA Schedules Activities 
For Coming Two Semesters
In outlining the program for this 
year, President Diane Farrington 
announced that for the first time 
our Women’s Athletic Assocition 
has become associated with the 
National Field Hockey Associa­
tion. She also pointed out that 
two girls will be given a chance 
to attend a conference in Philadel­
phia. On October 21/ 22, and 23, 
at a meeting of the Pennsylvania 
Division, Athletic Federation of
Freshman 
Basketball
Freshmen interested in try­
ing out for the freshman bas­
ketball team should report to 
Room 102, Gymnasium.
College Women, a series of dis­
cussions will take place concern­
ing various WAA aims, activities, 
and problems in clubs all over the 
state.
Many sports clubs are scheduled 
to suit all interests. Field hockey, 
under manager, Elaine Paul, has 
already begun. Tarquans, our syn­
chronized swimming group, will 
start October 4, and its annual 
show will be given-in March. The 
starting dates of other sports will 
be posted, and anyone interested 
is welcome to come out.
New Officers
The WAA officers for this year 
are president, Diane Farrington; 
vice president, Barbara Moore; 
secretary, Sally Lynn; awards sec­
retary, Sharon Lease; treasurer, 
Carol Trammell; and head of in-
T emiisT ourney 
Near Playoffs
The CIT fall tennis tournament 
has been underway for a week 
and a half and is now in the 
quarter and semi-finals. The 
tournament has been divided up 
into two sections this year. The 
first section is for the Tech tennis 
championship and anyone who 
goes to Tech can participate. The 
second section is for the intra­
mural championship, and no letter- 
man from the Tech tennis team 
can participate.
In the championship bracket 
Larry Dussair, Stephen Rowley, 
and M. Rugheimer, all of whom 
were regulars on last year’s tennis 
team, are dominating the compe­
tition. J. Smeets, who is a new­
comer to Tech this year, is still 
in the competition and seems to be 
the tennis team’s only threat as 
the championship match nears.
Fewer matches have been com­
pleted in the intramural tourna­
ment, leaving it wide open. Kung 
has advanced to the semi-finals, 
while Bieg, Poe, Olmsted, O.Don- 
nell, and Fleming are in the 
quarter finals.
Play will continue this week 
with the finals expected next 
week-end.
Homecoming—
[Continued from Page 1]
before the coronation of the queen 
at the Carnegie Day ceremonies, 
which wrill include the first ap­
pearance of the Cameron Choir 
and a concert by the Kiltie Band.
Immediately following, the so­
rorities will have their Varsity 
Varieties, keeping everyone enter­
tained until dinner time. Then 
comes the judging of the fraternity 
displays and a pep rally in the 
bowl at which time the various 
pledge classes will give their 
cheers. House-hopping to and 
from the fraternity parties will 
keep everyone busy until 1:00 a.m.
Football Game
Saturday’s festivities start with 
the 2:00 p.m. kickoff at Forbes 
Field against Temple. The game 
will be followed by the usual cock­
tail parties and after a short rest, 
the big dance will begin in the 
gym. Two bands have already 
been engaged. Their names shall 
be released in the next issue of the 
Tartan. One is a dance for the big 
gym and the other will play 
strictly jazz in the girls’ gym. At 
11:00 will be the intermission j 
when the various awards will be | 
made by the queen and Barbara j 
Kerr and Bob Lindsay who head 
the Homecoming Committee. After 
the dance which ends at 1:00 the 
fraternities will have breakfasts 
until 2:30.
Everything has not yet been 
fully planned, but the weekend 
should prove to be as exciting and 
entertaining as it has been in the 
past. But in the meantime, there 
will be queen elections and other 
interesting activities. So keep your I 
eye« and ears open, for who knows j 
what might happen when someone 
tarts playing around with Yankee 
Yams?
tramurals, Joan Henricksen. The 
board of representatives are Nancy 
Evans, Marty McCleery, Joan 
Veleff, Liz Neuman, and Elaine 
Paul. The Sports Club Managers 
are: field hockey, Elaine Paul; 
volleyball, Marian Evans; Tar­
quans swimming, Nancy Tresl^y; 
basketball, Marian Briggs; tennis, 
Lynne McKibben; softball, Marilyn 
Tallant. Our faculty adviser for ^ 
first semester is Miss Bartholemy.
All Tech girls are associate 
members of the WAA, and those 
who participate in sports are con­
sidered active members. All girls 
who like sports and want sure 
fun—watch the bulletin boards 
for opening club dates and come 
out!
T rophies \\
There are several trophies in 
the I.M. Office that were not 
picked up last year. Any per­
son or team who has one coming 
should see Mr. Birdy.
What’s doing
at Pratt & Whitney Aircraft
PRATT & WHITNEY AIRCRAFT
DIVISION OF UNITED AIRCRAFT CORPORATION • EAST HARTFORD 8. CONNECTICUT
World’9 foremost 
designer and 
builder of 
aircraft engines
Last Wasp Major, most powerful piston en­
gine ever developed, is shipped by P&WA. 
This marks the end of an era as turbo­
jets take over as the source of power for 
heavy bombers, transports and tankers.
Newest Supersonic Fighter. The Chance 
Vought F8U, latest in a growing group 
of military aircraft to fly faster than 
sound. Like most other record-breakers, 
it is powered by a P & W A J-57 turbojet.
First 702 Computer m East. Just installed, 
this advanced I.B.M. computer joins 
earlier electronic marvels that played a 
vital role in the development of Pratt 
& Whitney Aircraft’s famed J-57 jet engine.
Here's something 
unique in education.
Near the Pratt & Whitney 
Aircraft plant in East Hart­
ford, Conn., a full-fledged 
graduate center was estab­
lished this fall by Renssalaer 
Polytechnic Institute. Lo­
cated 115 miles from R.P.I.’s 
home campus in upper New 
York State, the new graduate 
facilities will enable working 
engineers from Pratt & Whit­
ney Aircraft and other com­
panies in the Hartford area 
to continue their studies. 
Without interrupting normal 
employment, it will be pos­
sible for students to obtain 
advanced degrees in special­
ized fields from the nation’s 
oldest engineering college.
Designed to raise the level 
of knowledge and to broaden 
the base from which ad­
vanced research can be ap­
proached, this entire pro­
gram will simultaneously lead 
enrolled engineers to greater 
achievement in their careers.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, September 27, 1955—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page 7
——SeVOL.4
This page edited by Evening School Students of the Carnegie Institute of Technology
Editor ..................................................................................... Dolores Neff
Reporters..............John Van Holt, Jr., Matt Bertovich, Albert Duzy,
Emily Muhic, Chuck Labee
IIJtfMV
Newman Club Gets 
v Ninety-Seven Mem bers
“Records are made to be broken.” Certainly a more apt quota­
tion could not be found to adequately describe the record number 
of students who signed up for membership in the Newman Club 
during the fall semester registration. A total of 97 new members
were added to the roster of this^----------------------------------------------------
very active Evening School organ­
ization.
The parties responsible for a 
job well done are: Bill Bond, Bill 
$ Groll, Chuck Labee, Joe Morgan, 
Mike McGinnis, Theresa Define, 
and John Van Holt, Jr.
A gala year is planned for the 
members this year. Meetings are 
held at the Carnegie Union on 
the second Sunday evening oi 
every month at 8:00 p.m. The dis­
cussions at these meetings will be 
conducted by some of the well- 
known speakers throughout the 
city, such as Msgr. Connare, Msgr. 
r Carlin, Dr. Rossini, and many 
others. In addition to these meet­
ings, there are many parties plan­
ned throughout the year.
There was a “Get-Acquainted” 
party held at the Union on Sept. 
18. Dr. Rossini, the faculty advisor, 
gave a brief welcoming talk to 
the group. Some of the new mem­
bers present at this party includ­
ed: Walt Bachmayer, Paul Mikus, 
Tom Copan, Ann Pugliano, Jim 
# Mechtel, the Weissers and the Ro­
lands.
The meeting ended with punch 
(?) and cookies and dancing. P.S. 
Where are all the girls who signed 
up at registration?
StudentCouncil
*Point Totals 
For Past Year
The following are the point to­
tals of students who worked for
Student Council during last year.
D. Alphine ............................................... 1
W. Bartoli ..............................................'• ®
W. Brobst ............................................... 7
W. Byers .........................................
F. Byers .........................................
F. Bertaut .......................................
Or. Brenyo ........................................
L. Blaha ...........................................W. Bachmayer ...................................... J*
G. Bogovich .......................................... n
W. Bond ................................................... ?
M. Bertovith ........................................... ¿7
L. Conley ............................................................. *
N. Conley ................................................... .
B. Cieciera 
R. Czernak 
T. Defino
L. Staub ...................................................... 9%
G. Schussler ...........................................20
R. Schwalm ............................................87
V. Sabol ............................................. 15
J. Soltis .......................... ......................... 31%
W. Schnarrenberger ,./................ 6
A. Spizak ................................................. 4
L. Stahle . ..................................... 1
H. Tousimis ............................................. 2
E, Thorwart ........................................... 22Vi
H. Thom .................................................. 9Vi
J. Van Holt .............................................25
D. Walker ................................................. 2 Vi
S. Wayman ...................... 1%
A. Wiskow ............................................... 10%
E. Wolf ...................................................... 5 3/4
J. Woods ....................................................38
Evening Sorority 
Plans Season At 
First Fall Meeting
Phi Gamma Pi sorority held 
their initial fall term meeting at 
the Carnegie Union on Sunday af­
ternoon, September 18, 1955.
Plans were made for several so­
cial teas, initiations, and other so­
cial events. In addition, an 
Orphans’ party is being planned 
for this spring. Last year, Phi 
Gamma Pi girls had a Christmas 
party for a group of 30 little boys 
and girls, but, since orphans have 
so many parties at Christmas, it 
was decided to have the party 
around Easter.
On October 16, 2:00 p.m., at the 
Carnegie Union, Phi Gamma Pi is 
having a tea for prospective 
pledges. Any girls wishing to 
pledge the sorority or desiring 
any information in regards to 
membership, contact either the 
president, Audrey Wiskow or Plaid 
Editor. Audrey may be reached 
at 5260 Centre Ave., Pgh. 32, Pa., 
or by telephone at MUseum 2- 
7300.
The officers of Phi Gamma Pi 
for this year are: president, Audrey 
Wiskoy; vice-president, Dolores 
Neff; treasurer, Eileen Wolfe; cor­
responding secretary, Marilyn 
Phipps; recording secretary, 
Theresa Defino; publicity, Emil 
Muhic; and historian, Lana 
Knezac.
Council Worker’s 
Picnic Scheduled 
On Next Saturday
On Saturday, October 1, a Stu­
dent Council worker’s picnic will 
be held at Spang’s Farm. A gala 
afternoon of fun and frolic is. an­
ticipated for this annual event. In 
case some of you workers have not 
as yet received postal cards re­
garding the picnic, here’s the in­
formation.
For the athletically inclined, a 
program consisting of volleyball 
and softball has been planned. Fr. 
those of you who would come 
along for the sole purpose of eat­
ing, (and a good time) refresh­
ments consisting of beer, soft 
drinks, hot dogs, etc., will be on 
hand.
Anyone who is unable to secure 
transportation facilities, please 
contact the Plaid Editor, Box 256,
Carnegie Tech, before Friday, Sep­
tember 30.
Directions to the picnic grounds 
are: Turn left off Route 19 at War- 
rendale and Bayne Road onto Red 
Belt—three miles to Spang’s Farm. 
See you all there!
T echnical
The Technical office will be 
open from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m., 
Friday, September 30 for the 
benefit of freshmen or upper­
classmen who are interested 
in working with the staff.
FOR COMPLETE 
HARDWARE, PAINT, 
and GIFT SELECTIONS 
• Try Us First •
OAKLAND HARDWARE
3606 Forbes St. - MA 1-0923
COME TO TECH CLEANERS
A-34 DONNER HALL 
For Convenient9 Efficient Service
on your
DRY (LEANING - FINISHED LAUNDRY
Open 5-8 P.M. Mon. and Fri.—12-3 P.M. Sat.
7325‘/22 Vi
5 Vi 72 
1%
£ Daiy .............................................siG. Dawes ................................................. "
R. DePastino .......................................... j*
M. Darrah ....................J................ 15
E. Elliot .................................................... J
J. Elias ........................................................ %J. Fisher .................................................. 1
V. Golobic .................................................. 62
E. Gonter .......................................  • • • • 12K. Galligan .............................................. 26 Vz
W. Gro’l .........................................'•••• 55 2
D. Gartner ....................................... 1
3D. Hoffer .........................................
P. Garrity .......................................
W. Ihlenfeld ......................................................... ® /?
L. Janicek .................................................. 1®**
R. Jones .................................................. “
E. Kalkstein ......................................................... 1
M. Keller ..................................... 1
C. Keller .................................................. 6J. Kennalty ........................................................ "
R. Klimas ................................................. 28
L. Liston .................................................... 12 /4
C. Labee ............................................... 5
M. Lux ...................................................... 2
A. Lassiman ............................................ ”
E. Loreski ............................................... I3
A. Maier ................................................... 1M. Maier ................................................... 7 Vi
B. May ....................................................58
M. May ..................................................... l*/s
G. McCrum ............................................. 1
E. Muhic ....................................................... 59
J. Mack ......................................... 25Vi
L. Manion ................................................ TV4
M. McGinnis ............................................ Vi
A. Miscimara ...................... 17
D. .Neff ............................................................121
A. Oravety ........................................................... 3
F, Polma .......................................... 46Vi
M. A. Peterson ..................................... 51
K. Pore .........................................................25 Vi
N. Primozik ............................................. 4
M Reed ..................................................... 7 Vi
P. Renkawek ........................................ 45V4
V. Ross ...................................................... 34
R Schaffer ...................................... 1 Vi
D. Symers ............................................... 1
mDEmz/rS mm etaae,D uHoD sTsHC H
Got a Lucky Droodle
in your noodle?
Send it in and
MAKE *25
Hundreds and hundreds of students earned $25 in Lucky Strike’s Droodle 
drive last year—and they’ll tell you it’s the easiest money yet.
Droodles are a snap to do—just look at the samples here. Droodle 
anything you want. Droodle as many as you want. If we select your 
Droodle, we’ll pay $25 for the right to use it, with your name, in our 
advertising. And we always end up paying for plenty we don't use!
Send your Droodle, complete with title, to Lucky Droodle, P. O. Box 
67A, Mt. Vernon, N. Y. Include your name, address, college and class. 
Please include, too, the name and address of the dealer in your college town 
from whom you buy cigarettes most often.
While you droodle, light up a Lucky, the cigarette that tastes better 
because it’s made of fine tobacco . . . and “It’s Toasted” to taste better.
DROODL£S, Copyright 1953 by Roger Prios
“IT’S TOASTED”,» b.„eri
BOWLING BALL 
FOR CENTIPEDE
Ann Bosler 
Sarah Lawrence
BLANK VERSE
John Vancini 
Boston College
Co. PRODUCT OFAMERICA’S LEADING MANUFACTURER OF CIGARETTES
fiLASttf
COLLEGE STUDENTS 
PREFER LUCKIES
Luckies lead all other brands, regular or king size, among 36,075 
college students questioned coast-to-coast The number one reason: 
Luckies taste better. **

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, September 27, 1955
Leadership
[Continued from Page 1] 
viding into five groups, the stu­
dents took the questions: 1) The 
role of activities on the college 
campus, and the relationship be­
tween these activities and the in­
stitution, its staff and students; 2) 
The development of leadership in 
our organizations; 3) The rewards 
and the responsibilities of leader­
ship; 4) Goals and problems in 
the evaluation of our organiza­
tions; and 5) The problems and 
techniques of leading. Each group 
discussed three of these five ques­
tions, devoting about a half hour 
to each. At the conclusion of their 
discussions, each group summed 
up its ideas and brought them to 
a general meeting in the Union 
dining room.
One of the primary problems of 
leadership is getting the leaders. 
These must come from the group 
of interested participants in activ­
ities. To get people interested 
originally, it was suggested that, 
for one, freshmen have their inter­
est aroused through personal con­
tact from the members of an or­
ganization, perhaps through an 
“activities fair” in the gym, and 
through the suggestions of their 
faculty mentors. The faculty 
should encourage rather than dis­
courage the students in participat­
ing, recognizing the broadening 
effects that activities have. Once 
the freshman is interested, the or­
ganization should follow’ up by 
giving him responsibilities, and 
by specifying definite meeting 
times.
Train New Leaders
It is undestood that leaders can 
not just step into an office with­
out sufficient training, and here 
at a college, where there is a con­
stant turn-over of leaders, too 
often that training is far from 
complete. It is up to the outgoing 
officers of any organization to 
make sure that there are com­
petent people to replace them. It 
is their job to see that from the 
time a freshman enters an organ­
ization, he plays a major part in 
it. The ablest president is not the 
most active, but rather he who has 
delegated his authority to com­
petent subordinates. These under­
classmen wrho have been given 
responsibility and who have been 
kept informed of the nature, not 
only of the organization in gen­
eral and their jobs in particular, 
but of the other offices as well, will 
be fully prepared to step into a 
major office. It was suggested that 
in addition to this particular train­
ing through experience, there be a 
leadership course, in which the 
essential problems of leadership 
and their solutions be put forth in 
two or three meetings.
Another Meeting
One idea that came from each 
of the five groups was the continu­
ation of the leadership conference 
in one form or another, so that the 
work in abstract ideas accom­
plished this past weekend be put 
into concrete and dynamic form. 
Just where the authority should 
lie for the continuation was dis­
cussed at length. It was thought 
that the administration, while 
most helpful and necessary in such 
a project, should let the students 
take the intiative from here. 
Whether this initiative should lie 
w'ith Student Council or with the 
leaders of the past conference w*as 
the primary question. Finally it 
was decided that the five student 
leaders and the five recorders, the 
ten people wTho had the most over­
all knowledge of the accomplish­
ments of this meeting and the sub­
sequent needs of the next, gather 
to write a formal report of the 
conference and make plans for 
a future meeting.
Housing-
[Continued from Page 1]
specifications, may be added in 
the basements and on the first 
floor in the future, if the fraterni­
ties so desire.
Financial Plan
Dr. Graham stated: “We wanted 
to stick to our philosophy that the 
basic cost of education at Car­
negie Tech should be about the 
same for a fraternity man as for 
a non-fraternity man.” A number 
of conferences resulted in the re­
duction of the original bid cost by 
some $12,500 per fraternity.
The total cost per fraternity, ex­
cluding furnishings, will be $156,- 
325. Participating fraternities will 
contribute $30,000, including alum­
ni contributions and maintenance 
credits on deposit with the school. 
The balance of the ^ost will, be 
amortized over the next 40 years.
To cover the amortization and 
operating expenses, fraternity res­
idents will have to pay rent of 
$220 per year, as compared with 
the present $144 yearly fee. Non­
resident members will be assessed 
$35 per year. (Fraternity leaders 
have agreed that the assessing of 
non-residents is entirely fair and 
consistent with the better facili­
ties.)
Dr. Graham noted that: “While 
this rental level may be somewhat 
higher than the average non-fra­
ternity dorm rental, nevertheless
it seems to be reasonable and to 
provide the only solution to the 
fraternity housing problem.”
In conclusion, he added, “Which 
of you are going to be prepared by 
next spring to commit your fra­
ternity for consti’uction which can 
begin as soon as school is out? 
Please let us know what your plans 
ai'e, and how we can help you 
achieve them.”
Assembly—
[Continued from Page I]
versity, and as Methodist Bishop in 
areas across the country.
Bishop a Writer
A prolific writer, the Bishop has 
written a number of articles and 
books, such as Russian Impres­
sions, The Ethical Ideas of Jesus 
in a Changing World, The Christ­
ian’s Vocation, Personalities in So­
cial Reform, Labor and Tomor­
row’s World and I Protest, his re­
actions to Senator McCarthy's 
methods.
At the present time, he is a 
member of the executive and cen­
tral committees of the World 
Council of Churches, having serv­
ed this body as president; presi­
dent, board of governors, West­
minster Theology Seminary; mem­
ber of the general board, Nation­
al Council of the Churches of 
Christ in the USA; chairman of the 
board of trustees, Tibley Memorial 
Hospital, Washington, D. C.
Council—
[Continued from Page I]
Much to the embarrassment of 
Council, it was noted that the 
meeting in progress was not sched­
uled on this calendar.
Committee appointments were: 
plans and programs, Diane Far­
rington; publications, Ed Feigen- 
baum; Campus Chest, Janet Bish­
op; social chairman, Barbara Mey- 
'ers; budget chairman, Kerry Aqua- 
dro. The executive committee con­
sists of Ed Pasierb, president; Janet 
Bishop, vice-president; Molly 
Rudy, secretary; Aquadro, budget 
chairman.
Council meetings will be held 
every Wednesday at 4:30 in Room 
100, Porter Hall.
Arthur -Kennedy, well known 
Broadway actor, was graduated 
from our drama depaitment in 
1936.
Jack Purcell Band 
At Freshman Hop
Jack Purcell and his orchestra 
sounded a triumphant note with 
“High and Mighty”, dedicated to 
Tech sophomores, as freshmen and 
sophomore couples celebrated th® 
outcome of the Pushball Game at 
the Frosh-Sophomore Hop, held 
Friday evening in Thistle Hall. All 
members of the sophomore classs, 
members of the upperclass honor- 
aries, and the diuk.-band den fresh­
men were guests of the Cwens and 
Scimitars at the annual affair.
Mr. Purcell, himself a Tech man, 
and his musicians furnished the 
evening’s entertainment. The dec­
orations were provided by Sally 
Ambrose and a committee includ- 
ink Kay Melenyzer, Barbara Shan­
non. En Harriet Chang, Bob Ham­
ilton, Ken Wilkens, and Morgan 
Edwards. Neil Bernstein was gen­
eral chairman of the dance.
Pepsi-C’ola Metropolitan Bottling Co., Pittsburgh 10, Pa.
YOUR BIG RED LETTER DAY
tAe c&u/f/wt to
1. SUPERIOR FILTER Only L&M gives you 
the superior filtration of the Miracle Tip, the 
purest tip that ever touched your lips. It’s white 
... all white ... pure whitel
2. SUPERIOR TASTE L&M’s superior taste 
comes from superior tobaccos — especially 
selected for filter smoking. Tobaccos that are 
tastier ... and light and mild.
jFootball—
[Continued from Page 51 ' 
en field, Tech’s chief threat. Po­
tentially Tech’s best pass re­
ceiver.
Right Half—DeVries—5' 11"—215 
lbs. from Clifton, N. J. Called • 
Bronco. A fullback playing half- | 
back. Mr. Inside. ‘Can be great j 
runner. The extra point man. 
Slow thinking on defense.
Fullback—Brown—5’ 11"—185 lbs. 
from Mt. Lebanon. Terrific on I 
defense. Great blocker.
TotAOOO Go.
