Vol. IX. No. 27Vol.IXNI 2.7ANApAI ri 1I5,.r9rXCa nNAA7eplX,a nI..7C9go.NoApril 15, 1915
BASEBALL SEASON 
OPENS SATURDAY
Juniata and Pitt Games First on 
Schedule.
Carnegie opens her baseball season 
on Saturday when she opposes Juni­
ata on Tech Field. The visitors play 
Gettysburg on Friday before facing 
us. This year they have a strong ag­
gregation and the game ought to be 
a fast one. Next week comes prob­
ably the hardest game of the season. 
Carnegie plays the University of Pitts­
burgh on Wednesday, April 21st. This 
year Pitt’s team can be ranked as one 
of the best college teams. It appears 
to be better than it ever has been 
before. Now if we want to win it is 
up to every Carnegie man to get out 
and cheer. Last fall the cheers we 
made surprised everybody at Forbes 
Field. Lets’ show them we weren’t 
half trying then. Pitt always turns 
out well at their games, so every Car­
negie man must come out and see the 
game. It’s going to be one of the 
best we’ve ever played. Pitt has a 
strong team but Carnegie has a fight­
ing team.
It is expected that A1 Wagner will 
take charge of the coaching soon after 
the breaking up of the Pirate training 
season. During the former few weeks 
Ex-captain De Muth of last year’s 
team has been coaching the squad. 
About forty-five men are reporting 
daily now but as soon as A1 Wagner 
returns a cut will probably be made.
INTER-SCHOOL MEET.
Annual Event To Take Place Satur­
day.
One of the most interesting track 
events of the year comes next Satur­
day when the Science, Design and 
Industries Schools vie with each other 
for athletic honors. The event has, 
in the past years, been featured by 
great competition and spirit by those 
loyal to each school. Always before, 
however, the meet has ended up with 
Science School ahead. This year Sci­
ence will have to get a move on for 
Industries School looms up brightly 
on the track. Judging from the num­
ber of Industries men on the track 
team, their chances are greater than 
they ever have been before. The 
entry lists, posted last week, have 
been well filled up. Therefore there 
will be great competition in each 
event and a thrilling meet may be ex­
pected.
STEFfEfi RETURNS 
IO (ARNESE
Spring Football Practice Begun.
Coach Walter P. Steffen’s return to 
Carnegie last Monday can, in every 
respect, be called one of the greatest 
events of the spring season. When 
Coach Steffen came to Carnegie last 
fall, football conditions were poor. 
In fact the stopping of the sport had 
even been considered. Starting out 
with an undeveloped bunch of ma­
terial, he drilled them into one of the 
best teams that has ever represented 
Carnegie and above all things a team 
that fought. Long before the season 
was over he had gained a cherished 
place in the heart of all Carnegie men.
This spring Coach Steffen has tak­
en another step in the development of 
the team next fall. Last Monday the 
first spring practice of the year took 
place and almost all of those who in­
tend to go out next year, have re­
ported. The value of spring practice 
in the development of a team is enor­
mous. The squad will get a chance 
to get used to playing together and 
to keep in some kind of condition for 
the coming season. This will enable 
the team to round quickly into form 
next year.
In 1915 we have the heaviest sched­
ule the team has ever had, with Case, 
Western Reserve, and Notre Dame on 
the card and as a result the team will 
not be able to loose any time in get­
ting a good start.
All of the football men seem en­
thusiastic over spring practice and 
under Coach Steffen’s directorship it 
ought to be of immense value in de­
veloping the best team Carnegie has 
ever turned out.
CALENDAR.
Thursday, April 15th.
Trials for Penn Relay.
Football Mass Meeting, Design Thea­
tre, 4:00 P. M.
Friday, April 16th.
M. M. C. S. Plebe Dance, 8:30 P. M.
Recreation Hall.
New England Club Dance, Union, 
8:30 P. M.
Saturday, April 17th. 
Interschool Track Meet, 1:00 P. M.
Athletic Field.
Baseball—Juniata vs. Tech, 3:30 P. M. 
M. M. C. S. Day Alumni Dance, 8:30 
Recreation Hall.
Wednesday, April 21st. 
Baseball, Pitt vs. Tech, 4:00 P. M.
MIDDLE (LASS WINS 
INDUSTRY MEET
1916 Again Shows Supremacy On 
Track in Interclass Competition.
Saturday morning the class of 1916 
won for the second time the annual 
Interclass meet of the School of Ap­
plied Industries. Promptly at nine 
o’clock the first track and field event 
started the morning’s meet with Blu- 
menthal of the Upper class leading 
home Hemman and Lawler in the 
hundred yard dash. The field was in 
excellent shape and brought out the 
best efforts of the many entrants. 
Dockstader, a hitherto unknown ath­
lete, opened the eyes of the spectators 
by his splendid performanme in the 
one and two mile stretch, leading the 
squad home by a considerable dis­
tance. Several other dark horses were 
brought before the attention of the 
coach and will again match their 
prowess this Saturday at the Inter­
school meet.
The Connelley Trophy offered last 
year by Dean Connelley to the class 
scoring the greatest number of points 
was again won by the Middle year 
students with a score of 68 points, the 
Lower class totalling 52 and the Up­
per 14.
The results of the meet were as 
follows:
100 yard dash—1st, Blumenthal, Up­
per; 2nd, Hemman| Middle; 3rd, Law­
ler, Middle.
120 yard high hurdles: 1st, Young,
Lower; 2nd, Mitchell, Lower; 3rd, 
Sweeney, Upper.
880 yard run: 1st, Carey, Middle;
2nd, Williams, Lower; '3rd, Brennan, 
Lower.
220 yard low hurdles: 1st, Blumen­
thal, Upper; 2nd, Twyfort, Lower; 
3rd, Mitchell, Lower.
1 mile run: 1st, Dockstader, Lower; 
2nd, Moore, Middle; 3rd, Carey, Mid­
dle.
220 yard dash: 1st, Hemman, Mid­
dle; 2nd, Blumenthal, Upper; 3rd, 
Watkins, Middle.
60 yard dash: 1st, Hemman, Mid­
dle; 2nd, Lawler, Middle; 3rd, Twy­
fort, Lower.
2 mile run: 1st, Dockstader, Lower; 
2nd, Moore, Middle; 3rd, Lord, Mid­
dle.
High jump: 1st, Black, Middle;
2nd, Mitchell, Lower; 3rd, Swearer, 
Lower.
Pole vault: 1st, Mitchell, Lower;
2nd, Black, Middle; 3rd, Hoye, Lower.
Broad jump: 1st, Black, Middle;
2nd, Swearer, Lower; 3rd, Mitchell, 
Lower.
Shot put: 1st, Blockson, Middle;
LECTURE (ilVEN 
BÏ DR. LUTHER
President of Trinity College Talks on 
Co-operation.
Dr. Flavel S. Luther, President of 
Trinity College, spoke in the Design 
School Theatre on Wednesday morn­
ing, April 7 before a large audience 
of Science and Design students. Dr. 
Luther was introduced by Director 
Hamerschlag, who reminded us that 
the speaker had been at Carnegie once 
before, in 1906.
Dr. Luther took for his subject “Co­
operation.” Twenty years ago, he 
said, we heard much talk of the divi­
sion of labor but now co-operation is 
the watchword of modern business. 
Taking a homely example, the pen­
knife, he told us how different men 
had produced the steel, made the 
blade, tempered the spring, and fash­
ioned the handle; and how all the in­
ventions of commerce had helped in 
transporting the parts to the maker 
and in finally bringing the finished 
article to the purchaser. Thus he 
showed that many thousands of men 
had all done some little thing in pro­
ducing the knife, that each man re­
ceived some small fraction of the 
money paid for the knife, and, finally, 
that each one had done his part well, 
as any one of them could have spoiled 
it. This, he said, was co-operation 
which is only another word for civil­
ization.
Each one contributes very little, he 
continued, but each is a part of a mag­
nificent whole. Again, each must do 
his part well as he is not an individual 
but a part of the whole. This great 
idea, he stated, of co-operation is be­
ing recognized more and more every 
day. For the Golden Rule has been 
found to be only a shrewd business 
proposition. So to us, the future citi­
zens, Dr. Luther left the task of help­
ing along the world by co-operating 
with our fellowmen.
2nd, Hemman, Middle; 3rd, Julian, 
Middle.
Discuss: 1st, Hoye, Lower; 2nd,
Hemman, Middle; 3rd, McDonald, 
Middle.
Interclass Relay: 1st, Watkins, Ju­
lian, Hemman, Carey, Middle; 2nd, 
Hoxworth, Twyfort, Brennan, Wean, 
Lower; 3rd, Orms, Blumenthal, Bush- 
ong, Kreider, Upper.
440 yard run: 1st, Julian, Middle;
2nd, Young, Lower; 3rd, Lawler, Mid­
dle.

---------------------------------------------------

(Ut|0 alarían2
SI}? ©arîan
Published weekly by Undergradu­
ates of the Carnegie Institute of Tech­
nology, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
Business communications should be 
addressed to the BUSINESS MAN­
AGER; all articles should be sent to 
the EDITOR-IN-CHIEF. _
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
Yearly $1.50. 5c per Copy
Entered in the Post Office of Pitts­
burgh as second class matter.
Editor-in-Chief
Edwin S. Rauh, ’15.
Phone, Schenley 543.
Business Manager
Arch H. Cowan,, ’16 
Phone, Schenley 9167.
News Editors 
Win. M. Sheldon, ’15
E. G. Hamilton, ’17
Athletic Editor
Henry Levy, '15.
Editors 
Marguerite Spilman, ’15 
Anthony Kerin, ’17Carl F. Peters, ’17 
P. N. Bossart, ’16 H. L. Heilman, ’16 
Associate Editors 
Marguerite Menges, ’16 W. M. Swan, ’18 
M. J. Wohlgemuth, ’16 Geo. A.Cook ’18
C. B. Coe, ’16.
PITTSBURGH, PA., APRIL 15, 1915
ADVERTISING AS PERTAINING 
TO A SUCCESSFUL 
BUSINESS.
Every business proposition is, either 
consciously or unconsciously, guided thru 
the rock-bound straights to success by 
two grave considerations; the question 
of obtaining capital, and the problem 
of choosing the right man for the job. 
It is not so hard to obtain money if 
the proposition is a fairly good one, 
especially in this country, for the Am­
ericans unlike most nationalities are 
always willing to risk a dollar where 
there is a chance of getting two. But, 
by far the most important problem is 
that of the man and his brains. Almost 
everything depends upon the man on 
the job. He is the one that makes the 
balance on your Profit and Loss sheet 
what it is. The ordinary business man 
does not seem to realize the importance 
of this question, and seldom uses suf­
ficient discretion in selecting him. A 
good man is hard to get and is seldom 
paid what he is worth. When, how­
ever, these difficulties have been satis­
factorily overcome, the problems of ob­
taining materials and merchandise, of 
securing a market, etc., are made a 
pleasure.
Perhaps the greatest business problem 
of the day is distribution, or the shift­
ing of products from the producer to 
the consumer. The wheels of distri­
bution run on the ball-bearings of ad­
vertising and salesmanship. It may be 
said that advertising is salesmanship 
plus publicity. The effect aimed at in 
all advertising is to create, stimulate 
or control the demand—any one or all
of these may be the object in view. To 
accomplish the best results the adver­
tiser should keep in mind several fun­
damental principes. Above all he 
must place himself in the position of a 
real friend toward the reader. He must 
be honest and sincere in all his deal­
ings, and to make an impression, he 
must be persistent. There are two wTays 
to advertise; (1) for present sales, (2) 
for future sales. Necessity demands im­
mediate sales, but it is just as import­
ant that a certain prestage or good will 
be created for the future. Sometime 
ago when a certain baking-powder 
manufacturer sold out, he received four 
times as much for good will as he did 
for the actual value of the plant.
W’hen a business does not advertise 
at all, I have found that their “good 
reasons” can be sifted down to two: 
in grasping around for a straw to hang 
on, one of these is usually found: either 
the business is so big that advertising 
is not necessary, or, it is so small that 
it wouldn’t pay. However, the suc­
cessful business man would only look 
upon these reasons with a smile and 
think something to himself.
There are a great many different me­
diums for advertising purposes. The 
best ones depend largely upon the ar­
ticles to be sold, but there is no doubt 
that every business can profit by the 
proper kind of publicity. Many people 
think that, since their product appeals 
only to a certain restricted class, there 
is no use advertising it except in a re­
stricted way. But, I believe eveyr busi­
ness, like a great man, is worth more 
when the general public is aware of its 
existence and operations, than it would 
be otherwise.
Success in business, as in school, and 
in our whole life, is not something to 
be obtained somewhere in the future, 
but is being built up day by day, and 
year by year. If we do each day’s 
duties as well as we know how, and 
kindle our actions and undertakings 
with a little enthusiasm, we are forming 
a base for greater things, and as re­
sponsibilities of greater and greater mo­
ment come upon us they find always a 
foundation that is strong enough to 
hold them.
A. H. C., 
Btisiness Manager.
WELCOME COACHES.
Monday afternoon saw the return 
to school of two of Carnegie’s 
coaches, W. P. Steffen and Al. Wag­
ner, of the football and baseball 
teams respectively. We are glad to 
have these two men w^ith us again, 
and in the name of the student body 
we welcome them. It is hoped that 
all the undergraduates who have any 
football or baseball ability will turn 
out and help to push the ball along 
at even a faster clip than it has been 
traveling since the beginning of the 
year. Both coaches deserve the loyal 
support of every true Tech student. 
We know Steffen, what he has done, 
and what he will do if he receives 
the earnest co-operation of all. Wag­
ner, while not so well known be­
cause of the short time he has been 
with us, has made an auspicious debut 
and big things are expected of him.
HANS WAGNER SENDS 
REGARDS.
During the training trip south of 
the Pittsburgh Pirates, numerous 
cards have been received from Hans 
Wagner by Foster and many of the 
students. Hans frequently desired 
that his best wishes be given to the 
student body and expects to try and 
be present at baseball practice after 
his return north.
SON BORN TO MR. NICHOL.
Mr. Nichol, secretary to Mr. Field, 
became the father of an eight and 
one-half pound son week before last. 
Mr. Nichol has been receiving con­
gratulations from his many friends 
among the student body.
INTER-PLEBE SMOKER.
Thursday evening, April 29th, has 
finally been determined upon as the 
time for holding the Inter-Plebe 
Smoker. For weeks an Inter-Plebe 
committee has been at work care­
fully planning the smoker, and from 
all indications it ought to be one of 
the most successful ever held.
The idea of an Inter-Plebe Smoker 
is entirely new7 this year. It brings 
the Plebes of the three schools into 
closer contact with each other and 
creates a good fellowship between 
them. All Plebes who desire a good 
time, should be there. A variety of 
unique entertainments, good eats, and 
good smokes will drive away the 
gloom.
C. I. T. ECONOMIC SOCIETY.
A regular meeting of the society 
will take place at room 113 A. S. on 
Friday, April 16, at 4:30 sharp.
Prof. Allan H. Willett, a member 
of the society, will speak on the im­
portance for students to study social 
and economic questions.
Everybody is invited, no matter 
what school he is in.
On the 2rd of April the Relay Team 
goes east to Philadelphia where they 
compete in the Pennsylvania Relays. 
It will be pitted against some of the 
fastest relay teams in the country but, 
nevertheless, its chances look very 
strong for winning a large number of 
points this year.
ARE YOU DOING YOUR DUTY?
to yourself and to your alma mater, 
by patronizing those who advertise 
in the Carnegie Tech publications? 
If you have been neglecting these 
obligations, brace up. Think over 
your wants for the spring, then con­
sult the classified list of Tartan ad­
vertisers on the back page. You will 
find them to be among the most re­
liable, and are particularly interested 
in co-operating with the Tech stu­
dents in supplying their wants.
By a vote taken among Yale 
seniors, Forbes Robertson was chos­
en as their favorite actor, and Miss 
Adams as their favorite actress. Ed­
ward H. Sothern and Miss Adams 
have been selected by several previ­
ous classes.
DIRECTORY
F. E. Foster, Graduate Manager oi 
Athletics and Student Activities,
301 Central Building. 
Students’ Advertising Bureau—
T. L. Gleason, Mgr.,
5133 Woodlawn Ave.
Carnegie Training House,
1227 Wightman St.,
Phone Schenley 9470. 
ATHLETICS.
Football—W. W. Lauer, Capt.
K. S. Henning,
5133 Woodlawn Ave. 
Baseball—J. C. Humphrey, Capt.
F. M. Pringle, Mgr. 
Basketball—A. S. Hines, Capt.
M. E. Boyer, Jr., Mgr.. 
5437 Aylesboro Ave. 
Track—E. R. Haselton, Capt.
E. W. Overdorf, Mgr.
Tennis—R. S. Wilson, Jr., Mgr.
341 Rebecca St. 
ORGANIZATIONS 
Seannachie Society—
R. S. Wilson, Jr., Pres.,
W. F. Welch, Sec’y.
Musical Clubs—J. A. Cameron, Pres.
D. C. Todd, Mgr. 
Industries Student Assembly—
D. P. Murphy, President 
C. F. Peters, Secretary. 
Carnegie Band—H. E. Gumbart, Mgr., 
310 Oakland avenue 
Schenley 510-J.
Mechanical Club—J. R. Cline, Pres. 
Mho Club—H. E. Gumbart, Pres. 
Radio Club—B. Hantman, Pres.
C. E. Society—W. B. Hamilton, Pres. Fulcrum Club—H. S. Stockdale, Pres. 
Crucible Club—
W. W. Troutman, Pres.
T. A. C.—E. Crump, Jr., Pres.Tech Studio Club— 
A. B. McSwigan, Pres. 
Industrial Teachers’ Club—
C. O. Roessing, President. 
CLUBS AND FRATERNITIES. 
Sigma Tau—5141 Woodlawn Ave.
Schenley 9167-J.
Sigma Rho—3400 Iowa St.
Schenley 9022-J.
Beta Theta Epsilon—
5437 Aylesboro Ave. 
Schenley 2508.
Xi Sigma Upsilon—
5133 Woodlawn Ave. 
Schenley 9253.
Zeta Lambda Epsilon—
237 N. Dithridge St.
9053 Schenley.
Pi Chapter, Theta Xi—
3890 Grant Blvd. 
Schenley 9143.
Woodlawn Club—
5137 Woodlawn Ave. 
Schenley 9020.
Opheleum—483 Atlantic Ave.
Delta Phi—
Applied Design Building 
Delta Sigma—Industries Building.
NOTICE.
Entertainment and dance of the 
New England Club of C. I. T., Car­
negie Union, Friday night, April 16, 
1915. Assessment 75 cents per couple. 
All welcome.

---------------------------------------------------

ähr Parlait3
Largest Jewelry Establishment in Pittsburgh
WEDDING GIFTS OF 
STERLING SILVER
Exquisitely designed table ornaments, toilet silver or the thousand 
and one trinkets, such as women love.
The Hardy & Hayes Co.
213-215 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh
THE OAKLAND BANK
as this strong, progressive Trust Company is generally 
known, has been an important factor in the business 
expansion of Oakland, since its inception. Its service 
is prompt, efficient and far reaching. Your business 
is cordially invited.
Oakland Savings & Trust Company
Capital and Surplus $400,000.00 
Vanadium Building Oakland
Remington Monarch
Smith Premier
Inquire regarding our Special Rates to Students, 
when you want to purchase or rent a typewriter
REMINGTON TYPEWRITER COMPANY
102 Sixth Street Telephone.
Bessemer Bldg. T
TESLA OSCILLATIONS AND AN­
TENNA RADIATIONS.
In his second lecture on April 6, 
Dr. Grondahl dealt with the oscilla­
tions sent out.
Continuing the discussion of last 
lecture, the strain in the dielectric, 
may be compared to a sort of shear­
ing phenomenon. The lines of force 
contract along their length and repel 
perpendicular to their length. These 
lines have considerable inertia and so 
the motion of the electrostatic lines 
perpendicular to their direction sets 
up a field which on investigation is 
found to be a magnetic field. Also, 
conversely, if a magnetic field moves 
perpendicular to the direction of its 
force lines, an electrostatic field is set 
up.
Dr. Grondahl next showed very 
clearly how the different types of 
electro magnetic waves traveled over 
the surface of the earth. Its subject 
of direction of propogation from var­
ious antennae was discussed, the two 
most popular ones being the umbrella 
and the inverted L type. The um­
brella antennae sends out waves, par­
allel and horizontal, while the invert­
ed L antennae sends out waves in the 
direction of the downward portion.
While with a low frequency the 
wave length is very long, it was shown 
that a very high frequency and a cor­
respondingly smaller wave length was 
much better as the E. M. F. is so 
much higher.
The inductance effects of high fre­
quencies was shown by means of a 
simple transformer, which lights a 
lamp very brightly. This was also 
shown by means of a large cage with a 
lamp inside, which lighted when Mr. 
Kaufman stood inside of the cage?
The second portion of the lecture, 
on Tesla oscillations, was very inter­
esting. If the primary and secondary 
on a transformer are so proportioned 
so that we have both sympathetic vi­
brations and resonance together, the 
electromotive forces produced are 
multiplied in an amazing scale. This 
was shown by means of a small Tesla 
transformer by means of which a mon­
strous vacuum tube was lighted, a feat 
impossible without resonance and tim­
ing.
Mr. George Kaufmann then did 
some very spectacular stunts with his 
large Tesla coil which he brought out 
for the lecture. This coil stands 6 feet 
high and is about 2 feet in diameter 
and makes a noise like a gatling gun. 
Mr. Kaufmann proceeded to light his 
pipe from a 30,000 volt arc just as un­
concerned as if it had been an ordi­
nary safety match.
The crowning event was the head 
piece consisting of half a dozen lights 
so arranged on Kaufmann’s head that 
when the arc struck them, they 
glowed brilliantly. These experi­
ments were very heartily enjoyed and 
everyone voted Mr. Kaufmann a hero.
Columbia University is planning to 
expend four millions of dollars next 
year, an increase of one million over 
the amount for 1914-15. The addi­
tional appropriation provides for in­
creases in the amount for 1914-15. 
The additional ranging in amounts 
from $50 up.
PENNSYLVANIA’S RELAY 
RACES BRING TOGETHER A 
RECORD LIST OF COLEGES 
AND SCHOOLS ON APRIL 23d 
AND 24th.
All Intercollegiate Champions of the 
East and West Will Be On 
Hand.
Pennsylvania’s Relay Races, to be 
held on April 23rd and 24th, will 
bring together this year the largest 
number of schools and colleges that 
have ever entered any meet in the 
history of interscholastic and inter­
collegiate sport. Over 325 teams have 
entered to date, of which more than 
80 are college teams. This means 
that the coming Relay Cornival will 
be bigger and better than ever. In 
one respect this meet outranks all 
other meets held in the United States 
annually. It is the most representa­
tive meet that is held. Colleges rep­
resenting practically all the different 
sections of the United States have 
sent in their entries. The University 
of Southern California will represent 
the Pacific slope. The Middle West 
will be represented by practically all 
of their large colleges, including Chi­
cago, Michigan, Wisconsin, Illinois, 
Kansas and many others. The East 
will of course be very generously rep­
resented as usual, as all of the big col­
leges and many of the minor col­
leges, have entered. Because of the 
representative character of the meet 
the special events and the relay races 
are justly regarded by the general 
public as the real Intercollegiate 
Championships of America.
The features of this year’s raeet will 
be the college championships as us­
ual. These events have filled better 
than ever before. A very high stand­
ard of performances is sure to be seen 
in each of the championship events 
as there are in each event at least 
three colleges expecting to make a 
new record for the distance. The 
special feature of the meet will be 
found in the pentathlon event, which 
will be held on Friday, and a new 
special event, the medley relays for 
that day. For the first time a college 
all ’round championship will be held. 
The Pentathlon event consists of five 
contests and the athlete making the 
best score in the five contests will 
win out and he will have the honor 
of becoming the all ’round college ath­
lete of the year. For the first time 
a 440 yard relay race; a 56 pound 
weight for distance, and a hop, step 
and jump will be found on a big col­
lege program. In addition, Friday 
will see two new relay championships 
inaugurated. Both of these are med­
ley relays. In the first the men will 
run the following distances: The
first man 440; the second man 880; 
the third man three-quarters of a mile 
and the last man a mile. In the other 
medley championship the first two 
men will each run 220 yards; the 
third man 440 yards, and the last 
man 660 yards. These special events 
and the pentathlon should form a 
most interesting addition to the Re­
lay Carnival.
As usual, the entries for the spe­
cial events are very noteworthy. All 
of the Eastern college champions are
entered and many of the Western 
champions. Kelly and Drew, of 
Southern California, holders of the 
World’s Record in the 120 yards hur­
dle and 100 yards dash respectively, 
are entered. ( Richards of Cornell, 
the Olympic High Jump Champion; 
Oler of Yale, the Intercollegiate High 
Jump Champion; Beatty of Columbia, 
the Intercollegiate Shot Put Cham­
pion and record holder; 'Nordell of 
Dartmouth, the Intercollegiate Broad 
Jump Champion; Milton of Cornell 
and Camp of Harvard, wTho are joint 
holders of the Intercollegiate Cham­
pionship in the pole vault; Braun, the 
Intercollegiate High Hurdle Cham­
pion; Cronley of Virginia, the best 
hurdler in the South; Ferguson of 
Pennsylvania, the Intercollegiate Low 
Hurdle Champion; James of North­
western University, the Western 
High Jump Champion; and Knight 
and Barancik of Chicago, the West­
ern Intercollegiate Sprint Champions, 
are but a few of the men wrho w'ill 
be found in the special events. In 
the relay races many other champion 
athletes will compete. For instance, 
in the one mile relay race will be 
found Lippincott of Pennsylvania, 
the World’s Record Holder for the 
220 yard dash, and Meredith, the 
Olympic Champion and half mile 
Record Holder. Harvard will have 
three men in Wilcox, Teschner and 
Bingham, all of whom have beaten 
49 seconds of the quarter. Chicago
will be represented in this race by 
the greatest quarter miler of the Mid­
dle West, Desmond, who has done 
48 2-5 seconds. The Cornell Four 
Mile Team wrill have Speiden, the one 
mile Intercollegiate Champion, and 
Hoffmire, the two mile Intercollegiate 
Champion, as stars. Never before, in 
the history of sport have so many 
really first-class college athletes been 
found in any set of games. Thoug'i 
the present World’s Records are ex­
tremely difficult to break, some of 
them are bound to go on April 23d 
and 24th, if the weather is propitious.
In addition to the special events 
and the college championships, there 
will be a large number of college and 
school class races. In fact, the larg­
est number of schools and college-, 
that have ev£r been seen on Franklin 
Field, will compete in these group 
events, many of which are really sec­
tional championships. Those desiring 
to see the greatest athletic meet of 
the year should set apart April 23 ! 
and 24th and be on hand at Franklin 
Field.
The Senior Class of the University 
of West Virginia is agitating the ex­
emption of members of the graduat­
ing class from examinations, provided 
their average be 85 or above.
Over 100 students of Columbia are 
taking a trip to Bermuda for the pur­
pose of recuperating from examina­
tions.

---------------------------------------------------

4Sarta«
City Office East End Office
631 Penn Avenue S. Highland Ave. and Baum Street
OSWALD WERNER & SONS CO.
PITTSBURGH’S OLDEST AND LARGEST DYEING AND CLEANING WORKS
Private Branch Exchange, Call Hiland 1138
Main Office and Works: Cor. Bryant, St. Clair and Mellon St.
Our $14.50 Suits
Cannot be surpassed for downright smartness no 
matter how much more you are willing to pay.
They are stylish—ultra swell and tailored to perfection with 
1 /2 to 1 /8 silk lined coats; skeleton vests silk backs; patch 
pockets, etc.
Drop in and see them. * v
JZ, BOGGS & BUHL ¿Z,
M. M. C. S. NEWS
THE SENIOR BALL.
The Senior class of the Margaret 
Morrison School held its senior ball 
on Thursday evening, April 8, in the 
foyer of the Carnegie Music Hall.
The ball was held earlier this year 
than it has ever been before. The 
class thought this would be wise ow­
ing to the warm weather and many 
engagements of commencement week.
The foyer was decorated with 
palms, ferns and cut flowers. The 
dancing started about nine o’clock. 
Receiving the guests were Miss Eliza 
Dickey, president of the Senior class. 
Director Hamerschlag, Dean Breed, 
Miss Lyan and Miss Parry.
The music furnished by Nirella was 
excellent and the spacious hall gave 
plenty of room for the dancing.
Supper was served in the dining 
hall beneath the foyer. Small tables 
were used, and decorated tastefully 
with baskets of yellow flowers—tulips, 
jonquils and daisies, tied with violet 
tule. The class colors were carried 
out further in the refreshments.
Dancing continued until two o’clock 
and everyone left feeling as though 
the Senior Ball had been a glorious 
success.
The committee in charge deserves 
much credit for the ease with which 
everything went off. The class owes 
more to Eliza Dickey, the president, 
than to any one else. It was un­
doubtedly her excellent planning and 
ability to carry out her plans which 
made the Senior Ball of the class 
of 1915 one of the most beautiful and 
successful dances in the history of 
our Alma Mater.
Other members of the committee 
whose efforts have been duly appre­
ciated were Esther King, Hazel Free­
land, Carolyn Bowman, Louise Mac­
Millan and Millicent Such.
M. M. C. S. VARSITY TO PLAY 
PITT.
Friday afternoon, April 16, at five 
o’clock, Margaret Morrison’s Varsity 
team will play the University of Pitts­
burgh’s Varsity Team at basket ball 
in the gymnasium of our building. 
This is the only big outside game 
which the team has played this year, 
and it is hoped that the students will 
make it possible to come out as they 
should and help us show Pitt a good 
time.
The team has been under a great 
handicap this season owing to the 
long afternoon classes and the heavy 
schedules in general. Several changes 
have been made this year, and the 
Varsity team of 1915 which will meet 
Pitt consists of the following girls: 
Forward, Marion Pichel and Helen 
Wassell; center, Florence Burgham 
and Margaret Wirth; guard, Marguer­
ite Menges and Marguerite Spilman.
Columbia University will in all 
likelihood be represented in football 
next year for the first time in five
years.
PENDING LABOR LEGIS­
LATION.
There ar three important bills be­
fore the Pennsylvania legislature, 
which persons interested in promot­
ing the public health should urge 
their representatives to view favor­
ably.
Standard bill No. 784 for the re­
porting by physicians of all cases of 
occupational diseases was introduced 
by Assemblyman Maurer and has 
been referred to the Committee on 
Public Health and Sanitation.
The importance of the reporting of 
occupational diseases is apparent 
when we remember that we can never 
know the prevalence of diseases un­
til we enforce laws for their proper 
reporting. Without a knowledge of 
the extent to which persons in a given 
industry are subject to certain di­
seases or to conditions which are pre­
disposing factors to these diseases, 
proper measures for the protection 
of persons thus employed cannot be 
instituted. It would be well if the 
above legislation were extended to 
include a tabulation of accidents 
which occur to workers in the vari­
ous industries incurred in the proper 
discharge of their duties, in order that 
we might gather statistics upon this 
subject. In fact, no person should 
be allowed to engage in any danger­
ous trade until he has been informed 
of the responsibilities he is assuming 
and of the manner in which diseases 
and accidents may be avoided and 
part of this information should be 
avoidable in the form of vital statis­
tics. Many of our occupations, such 
as “the dusty trades,” carry with them 
an increased danger of infections 
from the tubercle bacillus; we recog­
nize that many occupations such as 
working in caissons under increased 
atmospheric pressure are very dan­
gerous unless proper care is taken; 
while a great number of occupations 
such as the handling of and working 
with lead, (which occurs in over one 
hundred and fifty trades) phosphor­
us, arsenic, wood-alcohol, brass, mer­
cury, etc., may directly produce very 
bad results. We also recognize dis­
eases and accidents consequent upon 
fatigue; occupational neuroses as they 
are called, but we will never know 
the extent of all these ills until we 
have in force laws making their re­
porting compulsory.
Another bill, No. 575, before the leg­
islature providing for the protection 
of workers in compressed air com­
partments was also introduced by As­
semblyman Maurer and has been re­
ported on favorably by the House 
Committee on Mines and Mining. The 
general statements made above apply 
with equal force to this particular 
case.
The third bill, No. 130, also intro­
duced by Assemblyman Maurer, pro­
vides for one day of rest in seven, for 
workers in factories and mercantile 
establishments, and has been referred 
to the Committee on Labor and In­
dustry. The Sunday laws which have 
been enacted to protect the Sabbath 
from desecration, have utterly failed 
because of economic conditions and 
as a result workers do not get the
requisite rest. There are many in­
dustries which we must have in op­
eration on Sunday and this has in 
some instances, led to men working 
seven days a week. This evil could 
be obviated if employers had a suffi­
cient number of employees to admit 
of each worker having one day of 
rest in seven.
I know of no person better able to 
put a cash value on human life than 
a recognized authority on life insur­
ance and surely there is no one bet­
ter able to judge of those conditions 
which make a “risk” safe or unsafe 
than one whose daily work it is to 
express human life in terms of money. 
In this connection it is well to re­
call the statement of John M. Patti- 
son, president of the Union Central 
Life Insurance Company: “If an ap­
plicant came to us for insurance, and 
we knew he was working seven days 
a week, we would refuse the risk, un­
less such excessive work was only 
temporary.”
To answer for that great “economic 
loss” resulting from men working six 
days a week instead of seven, it may 
be interesting to quote a recent edi­
torial in the Journal of the Ameri­
can Medical Association.
“Abbe (Zeiss Optical Works in 
Germany) kept a careful record for 
the years when the plant was operat­
ing on a nine-hour day. When the 
working day was reduced to eight 
hours the record showed the men 
earned over 3 per cent more than dur­
ing the previous years, the output of 
the works was increased 3 per cent, 
and the power plant was able to shut 
down an hour earlier, thus affecting 
a very material saving in the funda­
mental expense. The record was for 
233 men of 31 years and many differ­
ent occupations on a piece-work basis 
were represented in the shop.
Both employers and employes need 
to be convinced that the healthy man 
is the most efficient and the cheapest 
employe and that any reasonable ex­
pense to maintain him in health is 
a profitable investment.”
Returning to the legislation pend-
Mellon National Bank
510-514 Smithfield Street 
409-413 Fifth Avenue
Capital and Surplus $8,200,000
TECH BARBER SHOP
HARRY F. VAN CUREN 
Hair Cutting our specialty 25 Cents
UP-TO-DATE WIEN’S FURNISHINGS
CRAIG and FORBES ST.
BASS ELONA PTU RDLANSAY
FfiIf( AMW(fCC l RVÏ(.Hf (o.
Moving, Packing and Storing of 
Furniture and Pianos. General Hauling
Baggage to and from Depot
4616-18-20 Henry St., Pittsburgh, Pa.
Bell Phone 2797 Cedar. P. & A. Phone 952 A
H. A. BECKER,
MUSIC HOUSE
EVERYTHING KNOWN IN MUSIC
Headquarters for Band and Orchestra 
Instruments, Music and Supplies
"°c-.5n0e,,;i"Midi;r’ N. S. Pittsburgh, Pa.
ing in this state: Assemblyman James
H. Maurer is to be congratulated on 
his progressive attitude in this mat­
ter and in being the originator of 
three such important bills. Would 
it not be well for each one of us to 
encourage him in his work and stim­
ulate him to further efforts in this
Continued on Page 5

---------------------------------------------------

âhf tartan5
APPLIED INDUSTRIES
THE DYESTUFF SITUATION
MAGUIRE LEAVES FOR HOME.
Saturday morning Clarence Ma­
guire, a special student in the depart­
ment of printing, left Pittsburgh for 
his home in Seattle, Washington, a 
trip made necessary owing to the ill­
ness of his aged mother.
During the eight months “Mac”, as 
he was known throughout the entire 
schools, made for himself a name 
rarely equalled by many in; their en­
tire school career. Fresh from# the 
west where he had a large printing 
establishment with his brother, Ma­
guire soon made himself, through his 
wonderful ability, the topic of much 
discussion. His poem, “A JrMebe’s a 
Man For a’ That” won l^W' early 
recognition as a student of unusual 
ability, later appeared his “My Bean­
ery” and then “The Flunker,” a paro­
dy on “The Vampire.” During the 
Fall semester there appeared for the 
first time, The Bagpipe, the now offi­
cial organ of the Industries school. 
His literary ability was shown in this 
and succeeding issues of that pleasant 
publication. For several months 
“Mac” held the office of Publicity 
Agent for the school, chronicling daily 
in the local papers the athletic activi­
ties of Tech. Pressure of time com­
pelled him to resign that position, 
after which he did considerable private 
work in the printing business. The 
schools at large and the Industries in 
particular are sorry to have such a 
student leave its portals.
Parker, Middle machinist, was re­
cently operated upon at the West 
Penn Hospital for appendicities. 
Many students are visiting him now 
that he is convalescing.
The Inter-school meet takes place 
this Saturday at nine A. M. Let every 
man turn out strong and cheer the 
athletes along.
Seldom, if ever, does the Industries 
column contain news concerning the 
Night classes'. 'The Niight Tartan 
Editor should get busy and keep his 
classmates advised regarding the nu­
merous activities from time to time.
Dockstader showed up in great 
shape at the meet last Saturday. 
Here’s hoping he’ll lead home the 
field at the Inter-school tussle.
Now that the Easter vacation is a 
thing of the past we can look forward 
to a long-needed rest this summer.
PENDING LABOR LEGISLATION
Continued from Page 4 
direction by writing him a note of 
appreciation It may be that the pas­
sage of these bills will prolong the 
life of some relative or friend or some 
classmate of yours at C. I. T. or even 
protect you from some occupational 
disease which would shorten your life.
J. E. R.
Address Before Chamber of Com­
merce of the United States of 
America, at Washington, Feb­
ruary 5, 1915, by Arthur
D. Little.
The people generally, and even the 
consumers of dyestuffs, awoke at the 
first declaration of war to the long 
patent fact that the industries of these 
United States are dependent upon 
Germany for their supplies of color­
ing matters, synthetic drugs, and 
many other highly necessary products 
derived from coal tar.
The coal-tar color industry which 
began in 1856 with the discovery of 
rhauve by an English boy of eighteen, 
known later as Sir William Henry 
Perkin, soon took root in Germany 
where it has attained its present great 
development and delicately adjusted 
organization mainly through the gen­
ius of a few and the plodding industry 
of many German chemists, the far­
sighted courage of German financiers, 
and the technical and business saga­
city of German managers. It is in a 
very real sense a created industry 
brought into being by the reaction of 
intellect upon the black chaos of coal 
tar. It is peculiarly a German indus­
try, and its products for the most part 
may justly and proudly bear the leg­
end “Made in Germany.”
As a result of the close interdepend­
ence of the coal-tar dyes and coal-tar 
explosives industries, there has been 
a practically complete cessation of re­
ceipts of such dyes and developers as 
require for their manufacture nitric 
acid or raw materials derived from 
coal tar and available for the produc­
tion of explosives,—such materials, 
for example, as toluol and carbolic 
acid.
The acid blues and acid blacks 
largely used in dyeing woolens are al­
ready scarce, as are also most yellows 
and oranges and a wide variety of 
blues and greens. Paranitraniline, 
used in connection with pigment red 
in poster work, is practically out of 
the market, and it may be said that 
pigment workers generally find them­
selves in an especially precarious con­
dition as to dyes.
Nitro developers are cut off entirely 
and beta-naphthol is obtainable only 
at prices which are almost prohibitive. 
Within a fortnight a large gingham 
mill has purchased 1,200 pounds, at 
$1.50 a pound, as against a normal 
price of nine to nine and a half cents.
There is a compensating, though 
somewhat remote, possibility that the 
manufacture of nitro dyes and devel­
opers may be resumed, as the Ger­
man government has subsidized the 
construction of two large plants for 
the manufacture of nitric acid from 
the air, and these are expected to 
come into operation during the pres­
ent month.
In 1913 the average dividend paid 
by German dyestuff factories was 
21.74 per cent. The actual earnings 
were much greater and have sufficed 
in the past to provide sinking funds 
to cover the entire costs of develop­
ment and plant. Few industries in 
the United States can make so good
Et SGDABGALS .nd ROG
Shoes and Hosiery
Penn and Frankstown Ave. E. E.
YOU LIVE IN YOUR SHOES
most of the time— 16 hours out 
of the twenty-four, at least.
BAS ELO NP TLURLDOYNFPf 
BPiIP R(OOPM RPPO LIPD WC SPYDl
a showing. It seems reasonable, 
therefore, to inquire why we should 
endure indefinitely the present hard­
ships, and why we should not have a 
coal-tar color industry of our own 
which should supply our wants with­
out let or hindrance from Germany. 
There is but one answer to these 
questions, and but one consideration 
to restrain us. We can have such an 
industry whenever we are prepared to 
pay the price, but is it worth that 
price?
The coal-tar color and explosives 
industry as developed by Germany is 
probably the most highly organized 
of any industry in the world. Start­
ing with less than a dozen crude raw 
materials, as benzol, toluol, anthra­
cene, naphthaene, carbolic acid, etc., 
derived from coal tar, it builds up by 
complex chemical processes, which 
often involve elaborate and expensive 
plants and the most rigid scientific 
control of operating conditions, more 
than nine hundred separate ultimate 
products, and over three hundred in­
termediates so called, or over twelve 
hundred products in all, some of 
which cannot be turned out commer­
cially in quantities much over a hun­
dred pounds. The whole system of 
production depends for its commer­
cial efficiency upon the close correla­
tion and interdependence of these 
many products. The industry is self- 
contained. It makes its own crudes 
and converts its own wastes into raw 
materials for new processes to be ap­
plied to them by itself. The adjust­
ment of the economic balance is so 
close that a slight change in the value 
of some one product may disarrange 
whole processes and affect disastrous­
ly many products. Obviously, there­
fore, at this stage of its development 
the industry must be considered as a 
whole if any effective competitive de­
velopment in this country is to be 
attained. The situation is not unlike 
that now existing in our packing in­
dustry, where by rougher methods in­
deed but on a far greater scale the 
entire raw material is utilized in a 
complex series of related products 
which are individually profitable only 
because of this relation to the others.
A few figures regarding one of these 
companies are instructive. For trans­
portation within the plan it utilizes
$5.00 Meal and J 
Merchandise Ticket
Open 7 A. M. Until Midnight 
FORBES QUALITY SHOP
Forbes & Bouquet Sts.
iSOFARR FOR ASS ODDARIONR
Randolph BA McClements
FLORAL EXPERTS
5936 Penn Avenue
Near Highland Ave.
BRACE BROS.
Launderers, Dyers Cleaners
TRENTON AVENUE 
WILKINSBURG
Bell Phone, Wilkins 23
THE D. L. AULD CO.
OF COLUMBUS, OHIO
Established 187 I 
OiiIcI.l Jfwflf(C to Vhf E(IncIW.l F(.Vf(nIVIfC .nd 
Dl.CCfCt M.kf(C Ïi Dl.CC RInHC .nd EInC 
Pittsburgh Representative
REGINALD TUTHILL 
203 Oliver Building Bell Phone Grant 838
rU.C.iRAGDON
COMMERCIA PHOTOGRAPHER 
WOODCUTS,ZINC ETCHING,HALF-TONE.
bell OGRANT P&A ÖÖMA^3^TSl7IIPCNN AVE. PITTSBVRp.H.P/'l.
HOTEL
SCHENLEY
Barber Shop & Pool Room
NEW TABLES AND NEW MANAGEMENT
forty-two miles of railroad. Its water­
works supply ten billion gallons year­
ly, and its ice factory twelve thou­
sand tons of ice. It has four hundred 
steam engines, five hundred electric 
motors, nearly as many telephone sta­
tions, and twenty-five steam fire en­
gines. It has a frontage on the Rhine 
of one and a half miles, and handles 
sulphuric acid in tank steamers. 
Seven years ago it employed two hun­
dred and seventeen chemists, one hun­
dred and forty-two engineers, eight 
thousand workmen, and a commercial 
staff of nine hundred and eighteen. 
Perhaps even more important from 
the present point of view of the Amer­
ican business man is this significant 
statement published by this company: 
The world’s production of all coal- 
tar dyes is substantially $100,000,000. 
The annual turn over of the German 
Continued on Page 7

---------------------------------------------------

ESaríatt
DESIGN SCHOOL NOTESWho Is Out Most Popular Student?
Vote for Yooi Favorite
This $225 Indian Motorcycle (1915 model) will be presented 
to the student of this college who receives the largest number 
of votes before May 31. To win this handsome trophy will 
be an honor—to own it will be a delight.
You should help decide who the lucky one shall be. Read the 
Small print in this ad. and then
Look fot* the Ballot Box
One of these Ballot Boxes is in almost every tobacco store in town. Anyone can vote—but only college students are eligible as nominees. If your choice for this honor hasn’t already been nominated, name someone else. Then get busy and help the fellow you like best to win the prize.
For the Fellow Who gets 
Most Votes
In almost every tobacco store in town 
-—on the counter or upon the wall—you 
will see a ballot box, on the front ofwhich is painted this legend—“Motor­
cycle Contest.”
When you buy a package of Fatima,
Favorite, Oasis, Piedmont or Home Run Cigarettes, tear off the front and write 
upon it the name of the sudent you think most popular. Then drop this vote in 
the ballot box.
These package fronts will have the fol­
lowing voting values :
Fatima package front......................40 votesFavorite package front (5c pkg.) 5 votes 
Favorite package front (10cpkg.)10 votes 
Oasis box front (5c pkg.) 5 votesOasis package front (10c pkg.) 10 votes 
Piedmont box front (5; pkg.) 5 votes Piedmont pkge front (10c pkg.) 10 votes 
Home Run package front ............10 votes
A Chance to Help the Uni­
versity Athletic Association
Besides package fronts, you may also vote Coupons from the fol­lowing brands, and they will be counted at the values named:Fatima Coupon ...............40 votesOasis Coupon ....................10 votesPiedmont Coupon ...........10 votesVelvet Coupon ................10 votesDuke’s Mixture Coupon. 5 votes All Coupons voted in this contest will be redeemed for cash at the rate of *^c each, and at the close of contest the money will be pre­sented by the Liggett & Myers iohacco Co. to the Athletic As­sociation.
Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
Description of the Trophy
iA ' regular model 15 H. P. twin- 
cylinder Indian Motorcycle, V-Type air-cooled Motor. Multiple-jet car­buretor, automatic action at all 
speeds. Dixie high-tension en­closed magneto. Indian worm driven plunger pump oiler—positive 
under all conditions. Heavy duty multiple dry plate disc type clutch. 
Indian patented double grip control —right grip controls magneto, ad­
vance and compression release—left grip controls throttle. Direct gear­ed transmission. Internal expand­ing band brakes, 28-inch wheels with single clinch CC rims. Good­year detachable tires. Gasoline ca­
pacity of tank, over two gallons. Folding footboards. Complete set of tools and tire kit in metal box eauipped with spring lock. Large telescoping tire pump and frame clips. Lustrous red finish with nickel trimmings.
SEE THE MOTORCYCLE FOR 
YOURSELF.
MÖT0R CYCLE CONTEST- .. -for '• , V- ' . . . '• Most Popular Student of
DESIGN NOTES.
Fred Steen, of the Carnegie Tech- 
nicnical School, a member of the 
Dramatic section, enacted the part of 
the Count of Merckfort, in the Made- 
in-Pittsburgh Film, “A Pittsburgh Ro­
mance.” Mr. Steen did excellent 
work and will be accorded a rousing 
welcome by hundreds of students 
when he makes his bow to the Movie 
public at the Schenley in Oakland on 
Saturday) April 24.
Mr. Douglass Ross was the leading 
man of the play, and as usual did 
some very brilliant acting.
Mr. Steen had a very exciting auto 
chase with his rival for the girl’s 
hand. This scene was enacted in 
Schenley Park with a number of 
mounted policemen acting as guards 
while the camera man ground off film 
with the machine going 70 miles an 
hour.
THE GRAND.
The second of the “five wonderful 
weeks,” which mark the beginning of 
the spring festival season of vaude­
ville at the Grand Opera House, be­
gins on next Monday afternoon, April 
19th, with Mrs. Leslie Carter and her 
company heading a long and varied 
program. A tabloid version of her 
most celebrated success, “Zaza,” has 
been chosen by the supreme emo­
tional actress for her initial tour in 
the varieties.
It is gratifying to note that in keep­
ing with his policy, Mr. Davis has 
assembled a group of the highest 
grade attractions to surround Mrs. 
Carter in the shows of the forthcom­
ing week. He has secured Hans 
Kronold among others. Mr. Kronold 
is an internationally popular cellist, 
and is recognized by critics as one of 
the best contemporary musicians, and 
artist from the concert stage who 
ranks with Gerardy. Baby Helen, the 
most remarkable child performer of 
recent years, is another feature at­
traction. She is a sort of miniature 
Tetrazzini, who sings F above high
C, and just to her versatility does a 
monologue and then yodles in true 
Tetrazzini style. Harry and Eva 
Puck, the former America’s young­
est song composer, will play “Sun­
shine and Showers/’ a sort of musi­
cal comedy melange. All the songs 
are young Mr. Puck’s own composi­
tion, and those who remember his 
“California and You” and “The Little 
House Upon the Hill” will antici­
pate some lyric and harmonious se­
lections far above the average. From 
the Pacific Coast conies Joseph Cole 
and Gertrude Denahy, who are to the 
West what Mr. and Mrs. Castle and 
Maurice and Walton are to the East. 
They will offer a series of their lat­
est Terpsichorean creations. A vari­
ety of other features and motion pic­
tures will complete the bill for Car­
ter week.
De Pauw University is erecting a 
new $100,000 gymnasium.
MLLE PAVLOWA’S FAREWELL.
Lovers of the best in art, music and 
choreography will be pleased with the 
announcement that Mile. Anna Pav- 
lowa, now accepted by all the world 
as the greatest danseuse of modern 
times, has been booked for a return 
engagement in Pittsburgh, at the 
Schenley Theatre, one night only, 
Monday, April 19, when she will pre­
sent from her extensive repertoire 
those famous new ballets and brilliant 
divertisements which New York’s 
opera lovers applauded to the echo 
during the recent Pavlowa “Saison 
Ballet Russe” at the Century Opera 
House. The program will be new in 
every respect and unique to the ex­
treme. What Mile. Pavlowa and her 
artistic assistants have offered the­
atre-goers in the past has been grati­
fying; what she will present on her
farewell appearance will be little 
short of sensational. The engage­
ment in the Schenley Theatre is per­
mitted through a remarkable arrange­
ment by which Mile. Pavlowa and her 
Imperial Russian Ballet and Sym­
phony Orchestra of thirty pieces are 
to appear for an extended season at 
the Panama-Pacific Exposition. Only 
a few days ago the Pavlowa Ballet 
opened the new National Cuban The­
atre in Havana. The organization 
now is on its way across the conti­
nent, giving single performances in 
a very few of the largest cities. The 
farewell program will be chosen from 
the most brilliant successes of “the 
incomparable one.” Prices range 
from 50c to $3, and tickets may be 
had at Mellor’s music store, 604 
Wood street.
The department of engineering at 
BroWn has arranged a detailed ex-
hibit of inventions and improvements 
in several lines of mechanics and en­
gineering. The exhibit has been at­
tracting widespread attention. It 
deals especially with the development 
of steam and gas engines, the tele­
phone, electric motor, light and ma­
terials of construction, especially 
steel and aluminum and contains 
photographs of concrete and steel 
construction.
F. and M. track men will partici­
pate in the Pennsylvania relay carni­
val in Philadelphia April 23 and 24. 
The schools rated with it are Buck- 
nell, Dickinson, West Virginia Uni­
versity, West Virginia Wesleyan, 
Rutgers and Lehigh.
The enrollment at Columbia uni­
versity has been announced to be 
9,687.

---------------------------------------------------

Stye ©arîatt7
RADNORSCIENCE SCHOOL NOTES
VY EYO(LEYF (ElO(OÏO(LE.
.THE NEW-..foCOLLAR
Don’t move your ol«l Upright or 
Square Piano into your new home.
Save tlie moving- and trade it in 
on a fine new
SOtlMER BABY GRAND
—OR—umm ESAYAR EIANO
that will be a delight to the entire 
family.
Our complete stock of new Pianos, 
comprising fifteen leading makes, 
makes it possible to select a good 
Piano at a price to suit your purse. 
Whether you want to pay $150 for 
a substantial Upright or $800 for a 
fine Grand or Player, you’re always 
certain of receiving legitimate value 
for your money at HOFFMANN’S.
Full value allowed for old Pianos 
taken in exchange, and the balance 
can be paid in Easy Monthly Pay­
ments if desired.
You owe it to yourself to visit our 
warerooms before buying your 
Piano or Player Piano.
J.M.HOFFMANNCO.
ESTABLISHED 1863.
537 Wood Street
Liberty Cleaning and 
Pressing Co.
301 S. Craig St. Cor. of Winthrop St. 
Bell Phone Schenley 309
Goods called for and delivered.
W. O. BRECKON
STUDIOS
Forbes and Atwood Sts.
Phones 3160-3161 Schenley 
Special prices to Tech Students
ENTERPRISE PRESSING COMPANY 
Cleaners and Dyers
Perfect Work in Ladies’, Children’s and
Household Work.
Oriental Rugs and Draperie» a Specially
ROOM 401 AART AND TRGRT BSDGt
PHONES- f 449 Hiland | Works. 49)2 H.land
Your Corsage Bouquet
You want it pretty but not expensive No 
use to pay $3 when $1 or less will an­
swer the purpose. Get your next one at
HARRIS BROS,
Iron City Electric Co.
Everything Electrical
711 Grant Street
(Between Seventh and Liberty Avenue)
ELECTRO-MECHANICAL DANCE 
BIG SUCCESS.Browning, King & Co.
CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS AND HATS FOR MEN. BOYS AND CHILDREN
WHtGWW1 BLLM lODPPO
In spite of the “charette” that was 
in order last Friday night, more than 
seventy Electricals and Mechanicals 
from the School of Applied Science 
attended the annual dance.
To say all enjoyed themselves 
would be putting it too mildly. The 
affair acted as a safety valve for the 
pent up “pep” which has been accum­
ulating since the pusher has been un­
der way. In fact, the spirit of the 
evening caused everyone to forget 
the time, and it was due to Flane- 
gan’s foresight that the lights were 
on until all left the building. “Flan­
nels” talked “Uniflow engines” to the 
engineer, and let it be gently whis­
pered that any man who can talk 
“Uniflow” to our engineer for thirty 
minutes knows something about the 
subject.
Those men from Nirella’s Orches­
tra sure did play. A pianist, violin­
ist, and cornetist they were, but they 
made noise enough for twice the num­
ber.
The hall looked good with the new 
furniture surrounding the walls, 
which were decorated with many pen­
nants and banners.
Punch and cake was served con­
tinually throughout the evening.
The committee in charge were: 
Fred C. Ziesenheim, chairman; Chas. 
W. Gibbs, Melville J. Wohlgemuth, 
T. Julius B. Lee, Talmage R. Cooley, 
Benj. Schwartz, John T. Eaton.
To their hard work and earnest ef­
forts was due the success of this 
splendid affair
THE DYESTUFF SITUATION
Continued from Page 5 
plants is about $80,000,000, and the 
plant value on various estimates not 
far from $400,000,000. It will be noted 
that the relation of plant investment 
to output is extremely high, being $5 
to $1. There is one works chemist to 
every $80,000 of output, and about 50,- 
000 employees in all. The total ex­
port value of the German product was 
about $55,000,000, which was distrib­
uted among thirty-three countries. 
China takes four times as much Ger­
man indigo as the United States con­
sumes. The average wage in the in­
dustry was 4.80 marks, inclusive of 
boys, common labor, and skilled labor. 
The average men’s wage was 5.85 
marks or $1.40, which is brought by 
bonuses and social service to the 
equivalent of $1.84. The gross aver­
age export value of the nine hundred 
and twelve dyes produced is $61,405 
each, or, excepting a very few of the 
most important, the corresponding 
figure for the remaining nine hun­
dred or more is $40,811. Dr. Hesse 
has characterized the German coal- 
tar color industry as “just about a 
one nation business,” and on this 
showing I would ask you if Dr. Hesse 
is not right.
The plain underlying reason why 
we have been unable during thirty
years of tariff protection to develop 
in this country an independent and 
self-contained coal-tar color industry, 
while during the same period the Ger­
mans have magnificently succeeded, 
is to be found in the failure of our 
manufacturers and capitalists to real­
ize the creative power and earning 
capacity of industrial research.
We waste, for instance, one hun* 
dred and fifty million tons of wood a 
year, a billion feet of natural gas a 
day, millions of tons of flax straw at 
every harvest; untouched peat de­
posits fringe our entire Atlantic sea­
board; beehive coke ovens flame for 
miles in Pennsylvania, wasting pre­
cious ammonia, and excite no com­
ment, while the burning of a thou­
sand-dollar house would draw a mob. 
The whole South is a reservoir of in­
dustrial wealth, untapped in any prop­
er sense. We have heard these things 
so often that we can go to sleep while 
hearing them. We need to really sense 
them, to get before our consciousness 
a clear conception of what they actu­
ally mean in terms of wasted wealth 
and present opportunity. When we 
do this,—and there is no better time 
than now,—let us apply the lesson of 
the German coal-tar color industry 
to these far greater problems, and 
solve them by the compelling agency 
of sustained, intensive research.
To take one illustration only, the 
application to the lumber industry of 
the South of one-tenth the research 
energy and skill which were required 
to bring the coal-tar chemical indus­
tries to their present proud pre-emi- 
nence would unquestionably result in 
the creation of a whole series of great 
interlocking industries, each more 
profitable than that of lumbering. 
The South would be in a position to 
dominate the paper market of the 
world, it would transport denatured 
alcohol by pipe line and tank steamer, 
make 'thousands of tons a day of car­
bohydrate cattle feeds, reorganize and 
develop along new lines and to far 
better purpose its languishing naval 
stores industry, and find new oppor­
tunity at every hand. To do these 
things in one industry, and many 
things as good in other industries, re­
quires only a little faith, sustained, 
courageous effort, and the apprecia­
tion by American financiers of the 
earning power of research.
DONT TAKE 
CHANCES 
WITH YOUR
Printing
Place it with 
the shop that is 
thorou ghly 
familiar with your wants and that 
has always given the Tech students 
clean-cut, attractive printing, prompt 
and efficient service at reasonable 
prices------
THE BLAIR COMPANY
Fourth Floor, Bindley BuildingSeventh Avenue and New Grant St.
CHOCOLATES
Dartmouth has followed the leader­
ship of Harvard in the establishment 
of a course in play writing. Instruc­
tion is given to a class of twelve who 
were selected by competition.
Samuel Gompers, president of the 
American Federation of Labor, ad­
dressed 600 students of the Univer­
sity of Pennsylvania in St. James’ 
Hall, after the faculty had refused 
Mr. Gompers the right to speak on 
the campus.
“OUR MESSENGER”
FOR EATS
COME TO US
Be want to furnish the baked goods 
for your “Rrat”. Uay we?
THE HALLER BAKERY 
In the center of the Iroquois Block OAKLAND
Through a co-operative arrange­
ment of the students of Wisconsin 
with the Madison police force, every 
student purchasing liquor must sign 
a statement in the presence of wit­
nesses that he is twenty-one years 
old.
Harvard realized $300,000 from 
football this season.
By the efforts of President Ellis, 
the budget for Ohio University, 
whose serious curtailment had been 
considered by the state board, was 
sufficiently increased to run the uni­
versity comfortably, if not luxuri­
ously.

---------------------------------------------------

beQttp (¡tartan
UAAT 22 A T T This Afternoon Sr v v X DAL J_/ Design Theater
MASS MEETING £FvsS!&£
CLASSIFIED LIST OF TARTAN ADVERTISERS
Banks—
The Mellon National Bank, Smith- 
field and Fifth.
The Oakland Savings & Trust Co., 
Vanadium Bldg., Oakland.
Barbers—
The Schenley Hotel Barber Shop.
The Tech Barber Shop, Craig and 
Forbes Sts.
Bookbinding—
Andrew G. Wirth, 109-111 Federal 
St., N. S.
Class Pins and Jewelry—
D. L. Auld Co., see Mr. Tuttull, 
Oliver Bldg.
The Hardy & Hayes Co., 213-215 
Fifth Ave.
Cleaning and Pressing (Delivery 
Service)—
Enterprise Pressing Co., Highland 
Bldg., E. E. Phone 449 Hiland.
Liberty Cleaning and Pressing Co., 
Craig, near Forbes St. Tel. 
Schenley 309.
Oswald Werner and Sons, Bryant 
and St. Clair Sts., E. E. Tel., Hi­
land 1138.
J. E. T. Shuman, Forbes, near Bo- 
quet St., Oakland. Tel., Schen­
ley 874.
Clothing—
Boggs & Buhl, Federal St., N. S.
Browning, King Co., 441 Wood St.
Strassburger & Joseph, Federal St., 
near Ohio, N. S.
Holl—The Taylor—Fifth Ave. and 
Wood St.
Confectioners—
Forbes Quality Shop, Forbes and 
Boquet Sts., Oakland.
Haller Bakery, Oakland.
Reymers, Fifth Ave., downtown, 
Penn Ave., E. E.
C. M. Stauft, Forbes and Atwood 
Sts., Oakland.
Dancing Academies—
Jacques, Craig and Forbes.
McDougall, 4616 Forbes St., Wood 
and Fifth, Shady and Penn Aves.,
E. E.
Department Stores—
Boggs & Buhl, Federal St., N. S.
Florists—
Randolph & McClements, Penn, 
near Highland, E. E. Tel., Hi­
land 25.
Furniture—
Boggs & Buhl, Federal St., N. S.
J. G. Marshall, 959 Liberty Ave.
Groceries and Meats—
Oakland Market, 3714 Forbes St.
Haberdashery—
Aufhammer & Evans, 6100 Penn 
Ave.
Boggs & Buhl, Federal St., N. S.
Browning, King & Co., 441 Wood 
St.
Cluett-Peabody Co’s, shirts and 
collars.
Heimert’s, Oakland.
Strassburger & Joseph, Federal St., 
N. S.
Laundries (Delivery Service)—
Brace Bros., Wilkinsburg. Tel.
Musical Instruments—
H. A. Becker, 601 Ohio St., N. S.
W. F. Frederick, 635-637 Smithfield 
St.
Picture Framing and Art Stores—
Alles-Barnes, Fifth and Atwood 
St.
Printing and Engraving—
The Blair Co., Seventh and Grant 
St.
John C. Bragdon, 711 Penn Ave.
Shoes—
Boggs & Buhl, Federal St., N. S.
P. Ludebuehl & Son, Penn and 
Frankstown Aves., E. E.
Geo. H. Stoebener & Son. Penn and 
Frankstown Aves., E. E.
Tobacconists—
C. M. Stauft, Forbes and Atwood 
Sts.. Oakland.
Liggett & Myers.
Studios—
W. O. Breckon, Forbes and Atwood 
Sts.
Transfer and Storage—
Webber Express and Storage Co., 
4616-20 Henry St. Tel., Schen­
ley 239.
Typewriters—
The Remington Typewriter Co., 102 
Sixth St.
The Underwood Typewriter Co., 
Liberty Ave.
COLLEGIATE ANTI-MILITAR­
ISM LEAGUE.
A compulsory fee for student ac­
tivities is being considered at George 
Washington university. The fee of 
five dollars will be so divided as to 
entitle the student to a subscription 
to the university weekly and annual
publications, as well as a number of 
other activities.
Columbia University Station, New 
York, N. Y.
To the Editor:
The formation of the “Collegiate 
Anti-Militarism League” is of wide 
interest at this time. Followng is the 
first announcement of the aims of this 
new organization.
Efforts at many colleges to stir up 
a dangerous militarist spirit, and in 
some cases to introduce a system ol 
military training, seemed to a num­
ber of college men to offer a serious 
enough proposition to warrant the 
calling of a meeting in New York 
several weeks ago ,to consider the sit­
uation. At this meeting there were 
present representatives from Har­
vard, Princeton, Yale, Columbia, Cor­
nell, Pennsylvania, and New York 
University.
The result of this meeting was the 
formation of the “Collegiate Anti- 
Militarism League,” which aims to 
set before men in all the colleges of 
the country the need of direct and 
forceful agitation against militarist 
tendencies and propaganda.
The college is not the place to in­
stitute military training, but quite 
apart from that question we must 
also consider what will be the tragic 
results of furthering the militaristic 
spirit at this time. Before us lies an 
opportunity such as has never before 
been presented to a nation. Shall we 
plan great increases in our army and 
navy, shall we pass bills appropri­
ating to the vises of war still more 
of that Federal Revenue of which 72 
per cent, is at the present time being 
spent on the Army and Navy, shall 
we start even to train our college 
men to fight, and then go to the war­
ring nations of Europe, offer our­
selves as mediator in the struggle, 
propose as one of the conditions of 
peace some sort of a disarmament 
agreement — and expect them to re­
ceive these good offices otherwise 
than with sneers?
The newly founded organization is 
planning an active campaign against 
militarist agitators, whether half-in­
formed laymen or professional army 
men. It appeals for support in every 
college, and asks those men interested 
to communicate with the Secretary, 
John Temple Graves, Jr., Princeton, 
•N. J. The other officers are Karl G. 
Karsten, Columbia, President; Arthur 
Fisher, Harvard, Vice-President; and 
A. L. Trachtenberg, Yale, Treasurer.
5th Ave. and Wood St. 
'Tailor
College Clothes a Specialty
SUITS AT $35.00________
li/fodern Trances
JL ? JLclasses "°c -.5n"0e
R. E. JACQUES
(All Castle’s Work)
Forbes and Craig Sts. Pittsburgh
Miller’s Restaurant
5J4 Smithfield Street
Miller’s Cafeteria
520 Smithfield St., Pittsburg
Desks, Macey Sectional Bookcases 
Interfiling Cabinets and 
Cabinet Supplies
J. G. MARSHALL CO.
959 Liberty Avenue 
THE DAVIS.
The attraction at the Davis The­
atre for next week will be “Kind­
ling.”
“Kindling” is a play devoted to sub­
jects which command what might be 
termed genuine heart interest. In a 
sense, it is a battle between those 
who are in affluence and those who 
are less fortunate and compelled to 
live as best they can, and by the 
sweat of their brows. The subject 
is as old as civilization, but the man­
ner in which the dramatist has treat­
ed it gives to it great interest. It is 
not without its romance, blended 
with the smaller tragedies of life.
“Kindling’’ is a drama out of the 
ordinary of the present time, and 
shows many marks of originality up­
on the part of the dramatist. Miss 
Florence Malone, who has been the 
leading woman of Mr. Davis’s com 
pany, retires from the organization on 
Saturday evening of the present week 
and will be succeeded by Miss Mary 
Hall, who, upon previous occasions 
has held this post with the above 
named play at the matinee Monday 
next.
The University of Michigan have 
organized gym classes for faculty 
members.
Cornell has done more than any 
other American College in the way of 
Belgian relief.
Clean, hot dry steam is applied to 
every garment. ! The heat of this 
steam is so intense that no “living 
thing” can hope to survive, and in fact 
your clothes are subjected to a steril­
izing process while being pressed. See 
Shuman, 3911 Forbes street.
—Adv.
