C^mmencement Program
Dr. Warner Will 
Address Graduates
On June 10, at 2:00 p.m., the general commencement ex- 
eltises will be held on the campus mall, between Administra­
tion Hall and Engineering Hall. However, if bad weather 
prevents the outdoor exercises, the general commencement 
will be held at Syria Mosque. ?
Program 
The program will open with the 
Invocation by the Very Rever­
end Monsignor John B. McDowell,
superintendent of Pittsburgh Cath­
olic School. President John C. 
Warner will present the main ad- 
ss. Following Dr. Warner’s ad­
dress, all degrees except the Doc­
tor of Philosophy degrees will be 
awarded en masse in the following 
order: College of Engineering and 
Science, Margaret Morrison Car­
negie College, College of Fine 
Arts, Library School, School of 
Printing Management, and the 
Graduate School of Industrial Ad­
ministration.
The candidates for degrees of 
D ‘ tor of Philosophy will then be 
recognized individually. Five hon­
orary degrees are to be conferred, 
the recipients of which have not 
yet been revealed. It is estimated 
that the entire program will con­
sume approximately one hour.
Individual Commencements
Immediately after the general 
commencement, the individual 
college commencements will be 
held in the following locations: 
C^ lege of Engineering and Sci­
ence — campus mall; Margaret 
Morrison Carnegie College—area 
between MMCC and tennis courts; 
College of Fine Arts — theater, 
Fine Arts building; Library School 
—Breed Hall, MMCC; School of 
Printing Management — Porter 
Hall. Room 100; Graduate School 
of Industrial Administration — 
GSIA auditorium. Each college is 
to plan and execute its own pro­
gram for Pwarding diplomas.
following the individual college 
commencements, each college is to 
hold its own reception. Also, an 
all-university social hour has been 
planned, to be held on the Fine 
Arts lawn -at 4:00 p.m. for the 
members of the graduating class, 
their families and friends, and the 
faculty.
National Science 
Academy Honors 
Dr. Robert Melil
One of the highest honors of the 
scientific world was bestowed upon 
Doctor Robert Mehl, head of the 
metallurgical engineering depart­
ment and Dean of Graduate 
Studies on April 30 when he was 
elected to the National 9cademy of 
Sciences. One of 30 elected, Dr. 
Mehl was cited by the Academy 
for “distinguished achievement 
and original research.”
Dr. Mehl has devoted his career 
to establishing and developing 
metallurgy as an important branch 
of science. In addition, he heads 
Tech’s well known metals research 
lab. He has long been consultant 
to various government agencies 
and Defense Department contrac­
tors. A branch of the Academy of 
Sciences, the materials board of 
the national research council was 
founded by Dr. Mehl in 1956, he 
was named “Man of the Year in 
Science” by the Pittsburgh Junior 
Chamber of Commerce.
Dr. Mehl is the third member 
of the CIT faculty to be elected 
to the National Academy of Sci­
ences. Tech’s President, Dr. J. C. 
Warner, and Dr. F. D. Rossini, 
head of the chemistry department 
were previously honored.
VOL. 51—No. 25CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY TUES., MAY 13,
State Scholarships Provost Smith Retires
From Active Career
All students who have won 
State Scholarships must iden­
tify themselves to Mrs. Bau­
man, AH 167, so that certifica­
tion can be made for the issu­
ance of award checks. Please 
come in as soon as possible.
CFP Court 
Penalizes ATO
Wednesday, May 7, the CFP 
Court of Justice handed Alpha 
Tau Omega a penalty of one week 
social probation from May 7 to 
May 14, for outside activities dur­
ing its early morning victory cele­
bration following the 5:30 buggy 
race of May' 6.
The court, after mUch discussion, 
reached the decision with one of 
the members abstaining from the 
debate.
The members of the court are: 
Bob Anderson, ATO, who dis­
qualified himself from the deci­
sion; Bob Jack, SAE; Richard 
Spa*hn, DTD; Dr. Swank, School 
Representative; Dr. Rothfus. TX 
faculty advisor; and Dr. Wein­
stein, BSR faculty advisor.
Cleveland And 
Rafferty Elected 
Congress Leaders
At the Student Congress meet­
ing last Wednesday, Bob Cleve­
land was elected to be the chair­
man of Student Congress for the 
next year. Cissie Rafferty was 
chosen vice-president.
The rather hotly contested elec­
tions for chairman ran for three 
bftots before Bob Cleveland, rep­
resentative from Donner Hall, won 
a majority. His principal oppo­
nents were Cissie Rafferty and 
John Olmstead. The vice-chair­
man elections went for two ballots 
until Cissie Rafferty won a slight 
majority over John Olmstead. 
Ninety-nine of one hundred ten 
representatives were voting.
The departmental representa­
tives for the 1958-59 Student Con- 
s, elected last Tuesday, are as 
follows:
Architecture—Lee Ligo, Ken 
Wilkins 
Chemistry—John Davidson 
Chem E—Richard Aust, Ken­
neth Humphreys 
Civil E—Wade Biggs 
Drama—Peter Sargent, James 
Frazier
EE—Gerald Wright, Bob Greg­
ory, Alan Gickler 
/Jen. Studies—Nancy Tull 
Yiome Ec—Stephanie Kovacs, 
Georgia Fleischman 
Math—George Paris 
IM—William Atkinson 
Mech E—Ralph Hise, Joe Matis, 
Jon McGowan 
Met E—Carl Beck 
Music—Bea Alexander 
P&D Herbert Olds, Milton Son- 
day
. Physics—Jeremiah Sullivan,
Mudge House
The newly redecorated Tech graduate dormitory was dedicated 
last Thursday with the unveiling of a bronze plaque inventory of the 
Mudge family, who willed the property to Cit. Shown above are Dr. 
Warner and Mr. Mudge.
* * * * * * 
Remodeled Mudge Dormitory- 
Dedicated By Dr. /. C. Warner
Elliott Dunlap Smith, provost and Maurice Falk Profes­
sor of social relations at Carnegie Tech, has announced his 
retirement. In his fourteen years at Tech, he has played a 
major role in formulating and putting into practice the Car­
negie Plan of professional education, for which the school is
----------------------------------------------------?widely known today. His academic
work has been largely in the field 
of industrial psychology, but his 
chief concern since he became 
Tech’s first provost has been the 
education of undergraduate stu­
dents to be both professionally 
competent and useful citizens, 
capable of continuing self-educa­
tion.
After receiving his LL.B frcvn 
Harvard Law School in 1916, Pro­
fessor Smith was admitted to the 
Illinois bar and began the practice 
of law in Chicago. He held the 
positions of personal manager and 
division manager for the Den­
nison Manufacturing Company, 
Framingham, Massachusetts, from 
1919 to 1928, during which t>ie he 
also lectured on social ethics at 
Harvard. From 1929 until he came 
to Tech in 1944, he was a profes­
sor of econpmics at Yale, serving 
as chairman of that department 
for six years.
Author
He is the author of several 
books dealing with industrial psy­
chology, among them, “Psychology 
for Executives and Technology
- , , . , and Labor” and the co-author ofsemester of next year have been ~Union - Management Cooperation
Philbri«k
Provost Smith
Announces retirement
Fraternities 
Hold Elections
The new fraternity officers who 
will serve for the remainder of 
this semester and most of the first
On Thursday afternoon, May 8, 
at 4:00 p.m., dedication ceremon­
ies were held for the new Mudge 
graduate house, with Carnegie 
Tech’s president Dr. J. C. Warner 
presiding. A bronze plaque was 
unveiled, dedicating the new 
dormitory to the memory of Ed­
win Webster Mudge, who died in 
1949, and his wife, Pauline Seeley 
Mudge, vho died last year, leaving 
the property to Tech.
Attending the ceremony were 
the Mudge’s son, Leonard M. 
Mudge, a Carnegie Tech trustee, 
and other members of the Mudge 
family, along with members of 
the school’s board of trustees, de­
velopment committee, and alumni 
federation. James M. Bovard, 
chairman of the board, accepted 
the property on behalf of the 
trustees, and Ben Patz, spokesman
bidy. Reverend Hugh Clark, rec­
tor of the Church of the Redeemer, 
offered the invocation.
Portrait
Also dedicated were a portrait 
of Edmund W. Mudge, presented 
by his family, and a portrait of 
former Carnegie Tech trustee 
Taylor Allderdice, painted by 
Malcolm Parcell. Both paintings 
will hang permanently in Mudge 
graduate house.
Plans were announced for an 
addition, designed by Alfred D. 
Reid Associates, to be built along 
the Fifth Avenue side of the prop­
erty. Construction is expected to 
begin about July 1. An addition to 
this opposite side of the property 
will be built at a later date when
selected by the twelve organiza­
tions and are listed below.
Alpha Tau Omega—President, 
Ken Wilkins; Vice-President, Bob 
Shuck; Secretary, Jack Billy; 
Treasurer, Jim Bennett. Beta Sig­
ma Rho—President, Dave Kauf­
man; Vice-President, Jan Chaik- 
en; Secretary, George Levine; 
Treasurer, Charley Roberts. Beta 
T h e t a Pi — President, Charles 
Davis; Vice-President, John Olm­
sted; Secretary, Ken Humphreys; 
Treasurer, Tim McGuire.
Delta Tau Delta — President, 
Bob Larsen; Vice-President, Bill 
Montgomery; Secret ary, Bob 
Holdsworth; Treasurer, Don Mac- 
Farlane. Delta Upsilon—President, 
Bob Gordon; Vice-President, 
Brent Mayo; Secretary, George 
Olson; Treasurer, John Hall. Kap­
pa Sigma—President, Dick Wer­
ner; Vice-President, Gordon Wat­
kins; Secretary, Curt Nelson; 
Treasurer, Bob Juric.
Phi Kappa—President, Ron Lu- 
zar; Vice-President, Bill Powers; 
Secretary, Joe Tyrell; Treasurer, 
John Kunish. Pi Kappa Alpha— 
President, Don Tellalian; Vice- 
President, Bob Harrington; Sec­
retary, Dave McMaster; Treas­
urer, Fred Heider. Sigma Alpha 
Epsilon—President, Gerry Wright; 
Vice-President, Philip Rosi; Sec­
retary, Ronald McCausland; 
Treasurer, Ray Nix. Sigma Nu— 
President, Lou Perretta; Vice- 
President, Dan Rhoads; Secretary, 
Ross Engleman; Treasurer, Dick 
Wiley.
Tau Delta Phi—President, Yale
in the “Stretch-Out.” He has 
contributed nifftierous articles on 
industrial articles on industrial 
and educational subjects in pro­
fessional journals.
While Provost Smith has taught 
many courses during his years at 
[continued on page 8J
Tech Seniors Meet 
At Webster Hall 
For First Banquet
Last Tuesday the first of a 
probable series of annual senior 
dinners was held at the Webster 
Hall Hotel. Over 400 seniors gath­
ered despite rain to consume a 
chicken dinner and hear several 
speakers and a brief movie.
The dinner served as a kick- 
off for the senior class develop­
ment program which has been 
actively carried on this past week. 
The program included the pre­
sentation of $5,126 to the school 
by Gary Benton, chairman of the 
senior program. The money rep­
resented the donations to the 
school of 45 program workers and 
was presented over the phone to 
Dr. Warner who was in Wash­
ington.
Campaign
This campaign was endorsed 
and students given encourage­
ment by Tech vice president, H. 
Russell Bintzer, Chairman of the 
Executive Committee, Walter J. 
Blenko, and chairman of the 
Board of Trustees, James M. Bo­
vard.
Jo Lacey presided over the din­
ner as mistress of ceremonies.
Early in the program Dr. Parshall 
Roth; Vice-President, Dave Kag- I spoke on class organization and
en; Secretary, Alan Wolfson; j Prof. Schmertz entertained with
greater housing needs develop, j Treasurer, David Wolper. Theta i original songs. The school offi-
Dining facilities will be provided , Xi — President, Bob Patten; 1 cials present were most encour-
in Mudge graduate house for all j Vice-President, M o r -y R os e n; j aging concerning the possibility of
for the graduate residents, voiced residents after extensive renova-! Treasurer, Felipe Garcia;
[continued on page 6] [the appreciation of the student \ t ion.retary, John Westerlind.Sec- ¦ carrying on the school financed 
[ senior dinner as an annual event

---------------------------------------------------

T*gt 2—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, May 13, 1958
Coed Of The Week
Nancy Pickkardt
Senior Drama Student
Gickler & McNeil
(Editor's note: Above is a new photography feature designed to 
appeal to the male Tech mind. This is another in a series of Tartan 
efforts to stimulate “intellectual” activity on the Tech campus. 
R.G.W.)
ODK Active 
Tech Honorary
By Toni Nelson
Omicron Delta Kappa, national 
leadership honor society for col­
lege men, was founded at Wash­
ington and Lee University in 
1914. There are now ninety chap­
ters throughout the country. ODK 
recognizes and encourages 
achievement in five areas: schol­
arship, athletics, student govern­
ment, publications, and the arts. 
Tech’s chapter of ODK, Beta Del­
ta Circle, was established in 1942.
This year there are seventeen 
members. Each spring ODK elects 
the outstanding leaders of the 
Junior Class to membership. Offi-
with Mortar Board. A topic of 
concern to the campus was dis­
cussed at each meeting. The lead­
ers of any activities being dis­
cussed were invited. Faculty 
members were also invited.
Some of the discussions were on 
such subjects'as: the effectiveness 
of the Tartan, a discussion of 
campus interest in national and 
local politics, and a discussion of 
the * intellectual atmosphere on 
campus. Out of these meetings 
came several constructive conclu­
sions, recommendations, and 
changes. Dr. Strick is ODK advis­
er and takes an active part in the 
affairs of the society. Omicron 
Delta Kappa “recognizes and en­
courages the achievement of ex­
emplary character and superior 
quality in scholarship and lead-
Miss Elaine Harris 
To Graduate First 
In Printing Mgt.
cers this year have been, presi- I ership. Membership is as much 
dent, Morgan Edwards; vice-pres- ¦ an obligation and responsibility 
ident, Marlyn Jakub; secretary, j to citizenship as it is a mark of 
Vic Schmidt; and treasurer, highest distinction and honor. 
Geoffrey Clarkson.
New Role 
Before 1956 ODK and Mortar 
Board had complete responsibil­
ity for Homecoming and Spring 
Carnival. With the creation of the
present student government, how- . ,K The highest ranking factorever, this function passed to Stu- ,, _ , v _’ * among the Second-Year Collegedent Congress. The Chairmen ofi_ , , . ,, , . -r, ¦ *i Graduates in the School of Print-Homecoming and Spring Carnival I . ,. . . . ,ing Management was attained by are still selected from Mortar TT , ,Miss Elaine Harris, and an awardBoard and ODK. I ... , , . , , _i will be made to her at Commence-ODK has turned its effortsment, June 10. Miss Harris, a to stimulating leadership and im- . . . . . „ , ,. „former Assistant Production Edi- provement in the extra-curric- , ... TT. ..H tor of the University of Chicagoular program of the school. ODK . . TT .H & i Press and a graduate of the Um-assisted Student Congress in the .. , _. . . , _ ,j versity of Chicago, entered Tech Leadership Conferences, and a , A _ . . , - .\ last September and will graduate number of ODK members assisted , ., ...this June after completing thethe admissions office by accom- .two-y ear management optionpanying Carnegie Tech recruiters 
in their trips to Pittsburgh area I course*
high schools, where the ODK i Miss Harris’ schooling prior to
members were called upon to ex- her coming to Tech has been at
plain the non-academic phases of i the Bryant & Stratton Business 
campus life and to answer ques- j College, Wright Junior College, 
tions. I and the University of Chicago,
Discussion Meeting J from which she graduated in Au-
Among the interesting and gust 1954 with a Master of Arts
beneficial activities this year was in English language and literature,
a series of discussion meetings | She came to Tech in 1957 the re-
Sympliony Society 
Hopes To Improve 
Financial Status
The Pittsburgh Symphony Or­
chestra looks for increased mem­
bership in the Pittsburgh Symph­
ony Society for its continued fin­
ancial stability. This was an­
nounced by Mrs. Henry Hillman, 
chairman of the individual solici­
tations division for the annual 
sustaining fund campaign of the 
Pittsburgh Symphony.
Mrs. Hillman and her more 
than 800 volunteer workers in 
Western Pennsylvania have rais­
ed more than $100,000 toward the 
$325,000 fund campaign. The cam­
paign, which ends May 22 is still 
more than $135,000 short. The 
money is meeded to fill the gap 
between earned income of the 
Pittsburgh Symphony and the es­
timated budget for the 1958-59 
concert season.
Symphony Society
Mrs. Hillman explains that an­
nual sustaining fund campaigns 
for the Pittsburgh Symphony 
would be less frantic and filled 
with apprehension, if more area 
people would become annual 
members of the Pittsburgh Sym­
phony Society.
“We’re trying to encourage peo­
ple to contribute ten dollars or 
more to the campaign this year 
and then automatically become 
annual contributing members of 
the Pittsburgh Symphony Society, 
we tell our prospects that joining 
the Pittsburgh Symphony Society 
is just like joining any other civic 
or social club”, Mrs. Hillman con­
tinued, “and in many cases, the 
benefits are much greater.”
Fail to meet this campaign 
goal and the Symphony goes into 
the red next season. Fail again 
next campaign and the Symphony 
is faced with a deficit that could 
put it out of business. More mem­
berships can eliminate that dead­
ly circle.
Honoraries 
Choose New 
1959 Officers
Four of the six class honoraries 
have elected their officers for the 
next school year. During the ini­
tiation ceremony held last Satur­
day, the Cwens held their elec­
tions. The officers are: presi­
dent, Nancy Tull; vice-president, 
Beverly Patton, secretary, Max­
ine Brown, and treasurer Kathy 
Sproat.
Scimitars, sophomore men’s 
honorary has named as its officers 
president John Crecine, vice- 
president Gary Turnquist, secre­
tary John Le^jerd, and treasurer 
Dave Mears.
Phi Tau Gamma, junior women’s 
honorary named its officers last 
Wednesday. They are president 
Greta Gilmartin, vice president 
Nancy Wood, secretary Betsy 
Beachley, and treasurer Paddie 
Fike.
Mortar . Board, the senior 
women’s- honorary has named its 
officers as follows: president Fran 
Bebic, vice president Carole Ro­
senblatt, secretary Ruth Vysoky, 
and treasurer Nancy Edgar.
To date, Delta Skull, junior 
men’s honorary, and ODK, senior 
men’s honorary, have not elected 
officers.
cipient of a Roto Print Scholar­
ship, a one-year full tuition award 
offered by the W. F. Hall Co. of 
Chicago. During her two years 
here, Miss Harris has worked 
part-time in the Tech administra­
tion office and at present is serv­
ing as a part-time instructor in 
the English department.
Miss Harris plans, after grad­
uation, to enter the production 
end of the publishing business in 
Chicago, advantageous, not only 
because it is her home, but also 
because Chicago is the center of 
the printing industry.
Soviet Union
Vs. U. S. A.
What Are The Facts?
(Editor's note: The Tartan is publishing the following article 
from the Reader’s Digest, hoping that it will bring about an increus- 
ed awareness of current international affairs son the part of Tech
students.)* * * * *
« . By Paul Palmer
To find out exactly how the United States stands in relation to 
the Soviet Union, I asked three distinguished Americans, who have 
unsurpassed opportunity to know the facts, seven big questions that 
are in most people’s minds today. The answers give as accurate an 
evaluation of the present situation as it is possible to publish without 
violating military security.
The three authorities interviewed were:
Admiral Arleigh A. Burke, Chief of Naval Operations.
General Curtis E. LeMay, Deputy Chief of Staff, Air Force.
Lewis L. Strauss, Chairman, "Atomic Energy Commission.
The questions and answers:
I. Do you believe that all-out war with the Soviet Union is pos­
sible in the near future?
Mr. Strauss: I do not believe war is probable, but one of the 
reasons I am engaged in my present work with the Atomic Enery 
Commission instead of my private business is that I feel war is pos­
sible and that we must do our utmost to prepare against that pt^si- 
bility.
General LeMay: I do not believe that war with the Soviet Union 
is probable in the near future, or at any other time—so long as we 
remain strong. I believe it is inevitable the moment we become weak.
How can there be any question about it? The Communist leaders 
have clearly and specifically stated, time and again, that their purpose 
and intention is to conquer and destroy the free world. That means, 
first and foremost, us. But if we continuously maintain military su­
periority over the Russians—and we con—they are not going to at­
tack. If, however, we let them get of us—well, I have never thought 
Communists the sort of people you should offer a shot at a sit1# lg 
duck.
Admiral Burke: I do not believe that war is probable in the near 
future. Russia knows that, if she initiates an all-out war, she dooms 
great numbers of her population to immediate destruction.
II. Do you believe the Russians now have an operational inter­
continental ballistic missile (ICBM)?
Admiral Burke: I believe they have short-range IRBMs, but that 
they do not yet have ICBMs operational.
General LeMay: I do not believe they have operational ICBMs 
in any quantity.
III. We are told that, so long as the Strategic Air Command QlJd 
the Navy’s carrier bombers remain in instant readiness for retaliation, 
a Soviet attack on the United States is highly unlikely. As of today, 
can SAC and the Navy devastate the Soviet Union? Can the Russians 
destroy SAC and the Naval air arm, in any way, thus eliminating re­
taliation?
General LeMay: SAC is in readiness for immediate retaliation in 
the event of enemy attack. It has the capacity of devastating the So­
viet Union, despite any defense. In the past, no air attack in force has 
ever been stopped by any nation; I do not forsee any way of stopping 
one in the future. ^
Destruction of SAC by enemy action here in the U.S. is not ’’ 
sible under present conditions, and will not be possible in the future 
—provided we take three necessary steps to maintain our striking- 
power.
Dispersal of planes, so„that we have only one wing on each base, 
is the first step; it is being partially implemented.
The second step is keeping a third of our striking force on con­
tinual alert, which means being ready, 24 hours a day, seven days a 
week, to take off at 15 minutes’ notice. This extreme state of readi­
ness is attained by having the bomber crew live alongside its plane 
at the runway. • x
But the planes have to be ready, as well. To keep a portion of 9^r 
bombers on combat alert at all times requires more crews than we 
now have and more technical personnel for maintenance—the third 
step in maintaining our striking 1 power. The only way we can get the 
needed personnel is to make service in HAC more attractive to hte 
right men by higher pay and greater career incentives. If the money 
for this is provided, SAC will always be instantly ready to perform 
its job.
Admiral Burke: As of today, SAC and the Navy can devastate 
the Soviet Union. I do not think the Soviet Union can destroy SAC 
and the Naval Air arm. Although Russia, if she were so foolish a^'j 
start a general war, would have the advantage of intiative, we wo*id 
have warnings ample enough to enable us to launch enough strikes 
to carry out our mission.
Mr. Strauss: Of course if SAC and all the Navy’s aircraft carriers 
were concentrated in only a few places, and if the Communists had 
enough operational missiles, I suppose that, in theory, our retaliatory 
power might be destroyed by a surprise attack. But it is my under­
standing that our bombers are dispersed, and increasingly so, that 
some of them are in constant state of readiness, and that the Navy’s 
atom striking power is spread over the seas. Consequently, these two 
forces cannot be destroyed by any type of enemy action now known. 
As for their ability to devastate the forces of the Soviet Union if %e 
are attacked. I believe our forces are confident of the quality of their 
weapons and of their ability to carry out their assigned missions.
IV. Are the Russians really “ahead of us” scientifically, technically 
or production-wise? Do not U. S. weapons now operational surpass in 
military effevtiveness whatever the Russians say they have?
Mr. Strauss: The Russians have always had able scientists, and in 
recent years they have developed notable technical ability, but I do 
not believe that generally they are ahead of us in either field al­
though their rate of progress appears to exceed ours. In the production
[continued on page^j^

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, May 13, 195*—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tage S
Bureau Of Mines: InTech’s Future?
Acquisition Problem 
To Prove Difficult
Luuoraroi jr
Facilities for analyzing: samples of coal gas
Health Section 
Analyzes Samples 
Taken From Mines
Analyzing gas samples after 
they are taken by Federal mine 
inspectors during visits to coal 
mines, these persons (see pic­
ture above) will determine 
whether any methan is present 
in dangerous amounts, whether 
sealed off areas are contamin­
ating mines, and whether venti­
lation is adequate. This is an 
important function of the Health 
branch. In addition they test gas 
masks by subjecting persons 
wearing them to gaseous condi­
tions similar to those in dangerous 
mines. There is also a glassed in 
room at the bureau which is mod­
eled after a section of a typical 
mine, and is used in training in­
spectors.
600 to 1,000 Degrees Centigrade
In the coal carbonization section various physical and chemical 
properties*of the American coals are determined. Samples weighing 
up to 500 pounds are carbonized at the above temperatures.
The Arms of Research
This two-armed chamber is an ert gas chamber for grinding coaL 
The arms are similar to rubber gloves which extend to the elbowm. 
Inside small samples of coal are ground, bottled, and stored witnout 
having contact with the outside atmosphere. The samples will event­
ually be used for experimentation.
Bureau of Mines
A view showing the Bureau’s facilities
Plot Plan of 4800 Forbes Street
The above is a plan drawing showing the location of the main 
buildings owned by the Bureau of Mines. For the most part, the build­
ings are of brick construction, and are similar in architecture to the 
existing Tech Buildings.
Electron Microscope
One of the smaller labs is de­
voted to optical equipment to 
study the complex molecules of 
coal. The electron microscope is a 
new aid in research. With its sci­
entists try to answer the questions 
“why does coal do what it does?”, 
and “How can we make it do these 
things better.”
Will Tech ever acquire the Bureau of Mines’ property 
and buildings?
Obviously the Tartan cannot answer this question, but 
after a certain amount of investigation this paper strongly 
advises enthusiastic freshmen against speculating about doing
graduate research in the Bureau .*-----------------------------------------------------
The buildings on Forbes Street In 1919 the buildings at 4800 
and their millions of dollars of 
equipment at present are the 
property of the United States De­
partment of the Interior. If and 
when Tech can wade through the Bureau has grown in importance 
rules and regulations of acquiring an(j ^as continually added new- 
Government property, there will equipment and new services, 
still be many problems to be ^t present, in addition to many 
solved—the greatest of which j jarge ancj small research labora- will be the task of moving the 
equipment to the location of 
the site of the Experimental Coal 
Mine and additional laboratories.
To give an example of the enor-
Forbes Street, which were design­
ed by the same architect who de­
signed the Tech Buildings. ,
were dedicated. Since then the
tories, the Pittsburgh Bureau has 
a number of special services. 
There is a completely outfitted 
photograph room for any kind of 
picture which might be desired, mity of the job, not long ago, one either for public relations or for 
of the coal laboratories was moved scientific magazines. An immense 
from the main buildings to an- publications - distribution office 
other position on the property sends out daily approximately 
the cost $35,000. 200-500 copies of various reports.
Established in 1910 School children, asking for “All
The Pittsburgh Bureau of Mines the information you have about 
was the first of the twenty-five coal,” are big customers as are 
experimental stations over the adults asking for some specific re­
country. It was created in 1910 by port.
a Congressional Act to conduct Film Department
scientific and technological inves- Motion picture films on mining 
tigations concerning mining and and metallurgical operations and 
mine products. I [continued on page 8]
Explosion Gallery
Approval for diesel-driven machines for coal mines is given by the 
electrical-mechanical branch. Electrical accessories of such machines 
are placed in the gallery—it is then closed, and the chamber fills with 
gases common in coal mines. If there is no explosion, the part is ap­
proved. If there is an explosion, the part (what's left) is rejected!

---------------------------------------------------

Pu« 4—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, May 13, IMS
Editorial
Party Politics?
The almost infinitesmal interest in student congress 
elections held last Tuesday must be disheartening to those 
who have a vital interest in what the student government 
organization can do in the area of improving campus life and 
student activities at Tech. Perhaps, however, this lack of 
interest is not entirely an indication of complete apathy on 
the part of the student body. At least a part of the fault 
lies with Student Congress itself.
There has been very little controversial action taken by 
Congress of late (controversial in the sense that it definitely 
split the student body into "‘for” and “against” factions), 
indeed, there is rarely anyone in congress who has a definite 
program of student action for student benefit and who is 
actively supporting that program. In short, there is a lack 
of student interest in congress because the average student 
is not personally affected by any action which congress un­
dertakes.
Party System
In order to stimulate interest in congress and in order 
make it truly representative of the wishes of the students, 
a change is needed in the manner of conducting elections, 
a change in the manner of selecting candidates for those 
elections. Namely, the institution of a “party” system similar 
to that which controls national politics.
If several strong parties were formed, each having its 
own platform and each presenting its own complete slate 
of candidates in every department, organization, perhaps 
even in the fraternities and sororities, there would certainly 
be an increase in both interest and constructive work ac­
complished. These parties would (hopefully) conduct vig­
orous campaigns, and thus bring the vital issues and pro­
grams to the attention of the student body as a whole. The 
party which won the election would then be free to try its 
programs and policies and to try to keep the support of the 
electorate.
Temple University
Such a system of party politics in a student government 
is not a radical and untried concept. Many other universi­
ties in this country are now using a similar system success­
fully. For instance, the Temple University student govern­
ment prior to this year had been controlled by the “Student 
Representative party” for several years, this party being 
the only part which was active. This year, the elections were 
changed by the formation of a second party, the “Collegiate 
Voice Party”—and the vote compared to the previous year 
was doubled even though the “CV” party did not win an 
appreciable number of seats.
Such a system would probably find its greatest useful­
ness in connection with the departmental elections, but 
would probably influence the interests of all the delegates. 
Certainly anything done in the way of reform of the de­
partmental elections would be a step in the right direction.
Control of Weekends
The parties could possibly be formed around certain 
ideas which, if put into effect, would affect the life of each 
Techite. For example, one could advocate that the control 
of the big school weekends be placed in the hands of the 
honoraries, or that admission be charged to enter spring car­
nival, or perhaps even promise to bring big name person­
alities to speak at the assemblies. Surely someone must be
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbet, Street. Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Office Phone 
MU 2-4557; Managing Editor, MU 2-8877; Executive Editor, MU 2-9053; Business 
Manager , MU 2-8851. Published weekly during the school year except holidays 
and examination period by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology.
Managing Editor .............................................................................................................. Carol Booby
Executive Editor .«.................................................................................................... Richard Wiley
Associate Editor ............................................................................................................. David Dali
Business Manager ......................................................................................................... Miehael Has*
News Editor ..................................................................................................... Tom Bieg
Sports Editor ..................................................................................................................... George Pari«
Copy Editor ................................................................................................................... J«rry Snllivao
Aftkiktant News Editor—Janyce Notopoulos, Featnres Editor—Lex Baker, Phe- 
lograph Editor—Al Gickler, Assistant Business Manager—Lee Adelsburg, Advertis- 
mg Manager—Mike Balsam, Seeretary—Rena Siegel, Assistant Sports Editor— 
Ed Blum.
News Staff—Ron Abrams, Mike Clayton, Peggy Ford, Mary Ann Gaertner, Mar­
lene Garland, Val Goodrich, Marianne Hadel, Dick Hartman, Natalie Laird, Beth 
Liden, Art Marino. Lou Pondy, Cissie Rafferty, Terry Rudy, Margie Spock.Sports Staff—Tom Bieg, George Gross, Jim Mullin, Hilliard Wood, Stan Zionts, 
Mike Berman, Pete Pence, Dick Hamifton, Bruce Bowen.
Copy Staff—Frank Baloh.Art Staff—Roy Brodsky, Don Beaman, Ned Ardalan.photograph Staff—John Philbrick.Secretarial Staff—Marsha Lowe, Pat Downer, Betsy Mow.
( ir.olation Staff—Gary Brandenberger, Jim Phillips. _______
Entered m second class matter on October 4. 1907, at the Po«t Office at Pitts­
burgh, Pa. under act of March 3. 1879. Accepted for mailing at special rates Of port­
age provided for in the act of February 28. 1925.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising. l»e.
sufficiently interested in bringing about some changes on 
campus to try organizing a party with a suitable platform.
Whether or not this proposal is a pancea for all the 
problems of student government, it has possiblities of 
greatly reducing the farcical character of the present de­
partmental elections—one needs only to examine the voting 
records in these elections to realize that they are not serving 
the purpose for which they were intended. But in addition 
to improving the departmental elections, this plan has a 
chance of making congress into an organization which not 
only carries out plans, but originates them. R.G.W.
Inquiring 
Reporter
With this morning’s address by 
Dr. Warner, the 1957-58 assembly 
programs were concluded. The 
Tuesday morning assemblies were 
planned by the school’s Assembly 
Committee, composed of student, 
faculty, and administration repre­
sentatives.
Before outlining next year’s ser­
ies, the committee has asked for 
student opinion on several import­
ant questions. The Tartan’s In­
quiring Reporter last week inter­
viewed members of the student 
body to determine the answers to 
some of the questions, the first of 
which concerned the speakers. 
Should the Assembly Committee
program speakers who are well- 
known or are, although not promi­
nent, experts in their fields? The 
consensus favored well-known 
speakers who would, as Ed Raupp, 
Senior, printing management, 
stated, “draw audiences, affect 
more persons, and create more in­
terest and enthusiasm.”
Assembly Emphasis
When asked what emphasis 
should be put on assembly sub­
jects—what proportion should be 
devoted to religion or general sub­
jects—the general opinion advo­
cated attention to all* sectors. 
Nancy Rohl, senior, general stu­
dies, felt that programs should 
concern religion, philosophy, the 
arts including literature, and cur­
rent events. All of those inter­
viewed stressed the importance of 
programs which would appeal to 
a large number of students.
Opinions on departmental series
A Pointed Parable
The year 2000 had dawned one January 1 with a modesty belie- 
ing its eventfulhess. Two hundred million Americans would not long 
forget the year 2000.
Leisure time, of course, had provoked the greatest social problems. 
With the average worker spending little more than 90 minutes a day 
following professional dictates, twenty-two and a half leisure hours 
remained to counfound his resourcefulness.
The sensations characterizing commonplace pastimes had become 
quite ineffective through usage, and several score millions had under­
standably turned to the rarer and more sensational pastimes—murder 
and arson proving most popular at the time. “Turmoil” could not quite 
adequately describe the social scene. And then G. W. On blundered 
into gratness.
Cones and Subtle Thrills
The great, man was a little fellow happily blue-eyed and psy­
chotic. On’s search for profitable use of his leisure time had netted 
him a fabulous bonanza. He had simply fashioned for himself a solid 
plastic cone, which when inverted could be spun effortlessly by the 
hour on the magnetic floor of a space frame. As a matter of course, 
On’s obvious contentment with his invention attracted the envious 
attention of his local sensationally frustrated citizenry, and as a re­
sult, roughly-hewn plastic cones began appearing throughout the 
electronic gamerooms of the city. So popular in fact, became the 
pastime that twenty international concerns undertook cone produc­
tion on an international scale, some even assigning design problems to 
the Princeton Institute for advanced Study.
Discovery, accompanied by useful application, naturally bears 
the rich fruits of improvement. So it was that plastic cones came into 
their own—an OM-nipresent plaything providing daylong entertain­
ment for two hundred million grateful Americans. With extensive 
usage came correspondingly extensive improvements. Certain designs 
spinning fast enough, for instance, could produce heat, light, and sound 
waves capable of human perception. No practical uses for the cones 
could be discovered, remember, but their capricious symphonic whir­
rings and kaleidoscopic color emissions enhanted a spinning nation. 
Unfortunately, but inevitable, science postulated terror into the new 
pastimes.
Intensity Madness
Cones became heavier; they became larger; the toys rotated at 
such high velocities (10,000 rps) that life and property in their paths 
suffered milli-second disintegration. With these ultimates in improve­
ment came a distressed population no longer sensitive to the subtle 
thrills of the cones, and indeed the subtle thrills of the cones were no 
longer to be had. For the massive (1000 ton) playthings emitted wave 
motions productive of nothing but paint. Then, reasonably enough, 
the old favorites of murder and arson increased in popularity once 
again, with the powerful cones granting delightful new possibilities. 
In their quarters the population could no longer rest assured that a 
mercuric cone would not come hurtling into their homes and families 
at night, bringing instant destruction to all. Times were OM-inous. The 
people recognized a need for control of the Nation’s an-OM-alies.
Relief by Skill
But a despairing nation suddenly gained miraculous relief from 
its chaos. An unheralded segment of the population volunteered as­
sistance—a strange group uncannily but thoroughly trained in the 
control of spinning cones!! Unbelievable!! Within weeks cone destruc­
tion had virtually ceased, and once more the populace enjoyed the 
subtle, innocuous thrills of gentle whirring gameroom-cones. A grate­
ful nation gave thanks for their delivery from almost certain destruc­
tion.
Two hundred million leisure souls paid deep homage to the spirit 
of the 20th Century, whence had sprung the Conquerors of the Cones, 
the OMniscient liberators miraculously skilled in the almost forgotten 
arts of top managmnt.
A campus is a culture in a mitsheD. Observe it. What happens on 
our campus happens in our Nation. But here rt happens faster.
(Editor’s Note: The above article is reprinted from a 1954 Tartan, 
of u 4till applicable.)
were requested. Fete Sargety.4, 
junior, drama, stated, “The Eng­
lish department series produced 
interest, even though attendance 
in many casese was required. Mike 
Clayton, junior metallurgical en­
gineering, felt that the value in 
any such series would depend on 
the department. “All students,” he 
said, “have contact with the Eng­
lish department and thus th^e 
lectures were successful. The civil 
department would fail.”
Publicity Problem
One of the main problems fac­
ing the Assembly Committee is 
that of publicity. In general, it was 
felt that publicity this year was 
good, particularly the table-cards 
in Skibo and the library. Sugges­
tions for improvement included 
publicity in the dorms—at floor 
meetings—and through depéC, 
mental offices.
Connected with the roblem of 
publicity, Mike Clayton, stated, is 
the speaker’s choice of a subject 
title. A dull, ineffective title will 
provoke disinterest and satire. 
“Keep in mind,” he said, “reac­
tions like ‘Why bring that up?’ 
‘So what?’ and ‘Ho-hum.’ The im­
portance of titles cannot be over­
looked when the Assembly Com­
mittee is trying to stimulate 4,,- 
terest in programs.”
Letters 
To The 
Editor’
Editor, the Tartan:
In last week’s issue of the Tar­
tan, there was very little mention 
made of the first place winner in 
booth competition and no refer­
ence to the winner of plank joust­
ing, while the winners of the 
buggy races were plastered 
over the front page.
Booth competition is one of the 
most important and time-consum­
ing contests of the year, and I 
feel that Kappa Sig should have 
been given more credit for the 
work they put into their booth. 
The one sentence, “Kappa Sigma 
was presented first prize for its 
booth, ‘Red Garters’,” in no way 
did justice to the winner. 0 
caption under the picture of the 
booth, which, incidentally, show­
ed none of its construction, should 
'have read “Winning Booth—KS!"
The fact that PIKA won plank 
jousting was completely omitted. 
Those of us who attended plank 
joveting or the dance would cer­
tainly have known the winner, 
but the rest of the campus might 
have been informed.
Name Withh 44• * *
(Editor’s Note: The Tartan re­
grets these omissions. In the rush 
of covering the early morning 
buggy races, it was necessary to 
delete a picture of plank jousting 
and several lines of the awards 
story. Space requirements also 
necessitated deletion of the cap- 
tion under the booth picture. We 
will make a concerted effort to see 
that oversights like these are 
minated in the future.)
Buggies Blasted?
Editor, the Tartan 
A check in the “C” book would 
have turned up the fact that 
there is no “Whelan Daxle” at 
Carnegie Tech, much less in the 
drama department. “Buggies 
Blasted” doesn’t make very go^ 
fill.
B. Wolfe 
Soph, Drama 
(The TARTAN feels that the 
validity of the arguments pre­
sented in a letter such as "Bvg-S 
gies Blasted" is in no way af­
fected by the use of a signature 
which is intended to conceal the 
writer’s identity.)
t*

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, May 13, 19SS—CARNEGIE TARTAN—F»*« 5
HI Track Meet 
Scheduled Today
After being postponed twice be­
cause of a wet track and muddy 
field, the intramural track meet 
will be held this afternoon, Tues­
day, May 13, at 4:30 in the Tech 
bowl. These will be the trials, the
Wall Harper
Orchestra
MAyflower 1-5270 
713 Clarissa Street
m
elimination events to narrow down 
the expected field of 120 men to 
the best in each category.
Friday, May 16, the top men in 
each event will compete for in­
dividual awards. The team whose 
members accumulate the most 
points, awarded for first, second, 
and third places, will become the 
track campus champion. But the 
competition promises to be rugged.
Every fraternity and indepen­
dent team has rounded up its best 
track and field men for this event, 
and some of the records may fall 
this year. Both defending cham­
pion ATO and last year’s runner- 
up Kappa Sigma have strong 
teams again this year.
*On Campuswith MaxShuJman
(By the Author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys! "and, 
“Barefoot Boy with Cheek")
THE GREAT CAP AND GOWN 
CONTROVERSY
It w ill soon be cap and gown time again, so let us, without delay, 
take up the vexing question: which side of the cap should the 
tassel hang on?
For many years the practice was to hang the tassel over the 
front of the cap. This practice was abandoned in 1948 when the 
entire graduating class of Northwestern University, blinded by 
tassels hanging in their eyes, made a wrong turn during com­
mencement exercises and ended up at the Great Lakes Naval 
Training Center where, all unwitting, they were inducted into 
the submarine service for five-year hitches.
There is a growing body of opinion which holds that the 
tassel should be w orn on the same side you keep your Marlboro 
Cigarettes on. Thus a quick glance will show you where your 
Marlboros are and save much time and fumbling.
This makes a good deal of sense because when one wants a 
Marlboro, one wants one with a minimum of delay. One does 
not relish being kept, even for a second, from the heaps of joy, 
the barrels of pleasure, the scads of content, the loads of glee, 
the lumps of ecstasy, that one gets from that filter, that flavor, 
that flip-top box.
There is another group, small but vocal, which insists the 
tassel should hang over the back of the gap. The tassel, they say, 
is a symbol like the bullfighter’s pigtail, signifying honor and 
courage.
They are wrong. Bullfighters wear pigtails for only one 
reason: to keep the backs of their necks warm. Do you have any 
idea what a draft a bull makes when he rushes past you? A 
plenty big one, you may be sure.
In fact, upper respiratory infections, contracted in the wake 
of passing bulls, is the largest single cause of bull-ring fatalities. 
I have this interesting statistic from the Bullfighters Mutual 
Insurance Company of Hartford, Connecticut. Incidentally, 
Hartford, the insurance capital of America, is a delightful city 
and well worth a visit if you are ever in New England, as north­
eastern United States is laughingly called. Try to make your 
visit in spring when the actuaries are in bloom.
But I digress. We were talking about what side to wear the 
tassel on. An ingenious solution to this problem was proposed 
not long ago by Humboldt Sigafoos, perhaps better known as 
{‘The Quoit King of Delaware.” An early forbear of Mr. Sigafoos 
was granted a monopoly by King George III, on all quoits manu­
factured in Delaware. Somehow this royal patent was never 
rescinded and from that day to this, every quoit made in Dela­
ware has been a Sigafoos Quoit.
Well sir, Mr. Sigafoos suggested that the way to solve the 
great tassel controversy was to starch the tassel 60 it stood 
upright and hung on no side of the cap at all. But I’m afraid 
that sly Mr. Sigafoos was only seeking to broaden bis market 
because after graduation, what can you do with an upright 
tassel except hurl quoits at it? # SbuhB-
«Étto• • •
OAK LNDKHR WE FNHTCWHW ANGK MW WBeMeWM NCWlf tANf side fW 
ANMr SWlH fNRRKT WMh slf with 5erNHKffKR8 fAKS say EeHLTS0 bfNS 
WM fAK TerAf8 LeT.8 fNRfS Re.K.. • tefA FNHTCWHW8 WE 5WlHRKP
Tech Defeated By Geneva 69-62; 
Meet Decided By Broad Jump
Carnegie Tech’s track team 
traveled to Geneva College last 
Thursday, and it took the last 
event on the program to decide the 
winner. The running score was 
tied 61 to 61 at the start of the 
broad jump, the final event of the 
afternoon. Geneva’s first and sec­
ond place jumps gave them the 
victory.
Tech dominated the running 
events winning all but the half 
mile and the high hurdles, but 
Geneva’s power in the field events 
proved to be the deciding edge.
Tech’s Eric Ottervik, defending 
tri-state two mile champ, came 
through again with easy wins in 
the mile and two mile. Carnegie’s 
other double winner was A1 Tom-
..im I
Tech Tracker
Tech’s Paul Hauser clears jump bar in Geneva Meet
Saturday, May 17 
Tri State Track 
Meet To Be Held
Tri-state track championship 
this year will be held at West­
minster College on Saturday, May 
17. While the Tartans three times 
defeated in dual meets, are not 
counted on for top team honors, 
they nevertheless, will field some 
strong contenders for individual 
honors. Foremost among these is 
Eric Ottervik, last year’s two mile 
champ. Eric and his running mate, 
Dick Hamilton, have been unde­
feated in dual meet competition 
this spring, placing first and sec­
ond in every two mile they’ve run. 
Ottervik has already run 4.5 sec­
onds faster than the Tri-State rec­
ord of 10.05, and he is still im­
proving. Coach Farson hopes for 
first and second with Ottervik and 
Hamilton in this event.
Another Tech man who is a 
strong candidate for individual 
honors is Javelin Thrower Joe 
Frick. Joe has only been beaten 
once in season’s competition and 
since then has improved steadily, 
Frick will be a very strong con­
tender for the first place medal.
In the other events, Tech track­
men will face some of the toughest 
competition in the history of the 
Tri-State meet. Tech sprinters, Ty 
Porter and A1 Tompkins will be 
striving to upset defending champ 
Felton Brown of Westminster in 
the 100 and 220. In the 440, Tech’s 
Eric Suggs will seek revenge 
against W&J’s Bedick who barely 
nosed him out for first place last 
year. The 880 yard run will fea­
ture Bill Wittman of Carnegie 
battlifig with Bill Milbroth of 
W&J, Bob Dickinson of Slippery 
Rock, and Ray Bens of Grove City 
in a wide open race. In the high 
and low hurdles, Tech’s second 
high scorer Milt Miles will face 
stiff competition over the sticks 
from Minnie of Westminster and 
Albitz of Slippery Rock. Tech’s 
much improved relay team of 
Suggs, Chamay, Wittman, and 
either Porter or Churma will be 
pressed by fleet-footed groups 
from Slippery Rock and W&J.
Looking at the over-all Tri- 
State picture, Slippery Rock and 
Westminster appear to be the 
teams to beat. In a dual meet 
Slippery Rock squeezed out an 8 
point victory over the Titans, but 
for the championships the two 
teams shape up as just about even. 
Either way, it ought to be one of 
the best Tri-State meets in many 
years.
kins with victories in the 100 and 
220 yard dashes. Tech’s mile re­
lay team also looked much im­
proved over earlier showings.
This meet leaves Tartan Coach 
Jim Farson with a 5-3 record for 
dual meets so far. The final dual 
meet of the season will be on 
Wednesday against W&J, Farson’s 
old alma mater. The meet was 
originally to be held at Washing­
ton, but it has been rescheduled 
for the Tech bowl. This contest 
ough to be extremely close and an 
exciting one to watch.
TRACK EVENTS
Mile: Won by Ottervik, Tech: Hamil­
ton, Tech, second; Munson, Geneva, 
third. Time—4:51.8.440-yard run: Won by Suggs. Tech: 
Schamay, Tech, second; Daily, Geneva, 
third. Time—:52.4.100-yard dash: Won by Tompkins.
Tech; Milroy. Geneva, second; Rose, Ge­
neva, third. Time—:10.-.120-yard high hurdler: Won by
Brower, Geneva; McCracken, Geneva, 
second; Miles, Tech, third. Time—:16.4.
880-yard run: Won by Jackson, Ge­
neva; Meeker, Geneva, second; Alms, 
Geneva, third. Time—2:05.6.220-yard dash: W'on by Tompkins.
Tech; Milroy, Geneva, second; Suggs, 
Tech, third. Time—:23.5.Two mile: Won by Ottervik. Tech;
Hamilton, Tech, second; Palanschat, Ge­
neva, third. Time—10.23.3.120-yard low hurdles: Won by Miles. 
Tech; Miiroy, Geneva, second: McCrack­
en, Geneva, third. Time—:14.2.4/5 mile relay: Won by Tech iChurms. 
Wittman. Schamay, Suggs). Time—2:47. 
FIELD EVENTSShot Put: Won by Simko. Geneva:
Maschak, Geneva, second: Singer, Ge­
neva, third. Distance—47 feet, 5Mi inches.
Board Jump: Won by Yancy, Geneva: 
McCracken, Geneva, second; Mihm, Tech. 
third. Distance—19 feet, 9 Mi inches.Discus: Won by Berg, Tech; Simko. 
Geneva, second; Yancy. Geneva, third.
Pole Vault: Won by McCracken, Ge­
neva: Cornesky, Geneva, second: Schoolev 
and Humes, both Tech, tied for third. 
Height—11 feet.Javelin: Won by Frick, Tech: Yablon- 
ski, Geneva, second, Maschak. Geneva, 
third. Distance—174 feet, 5Mi inches.
High Jump: Won by Yancy, Geneva: 
Tompkins and Houser, both Tech, tied 
for second. Height—5 feet. 9 inches.
Rain Halts Play
By Edward Blum
The rain has made the playing 
fields so wet that the rest of the 
regular softball schedule cannot 
be completed before the end of the 
year. Therefore, a single elimina­
tion playoff between the top 22 
teams has been devised to select 
a champion. In each league, the 
team that progresses furthest 
along the elimination ladder will 
be the league champion and will 
receive the league championship 
plaque. The team that manages to 
survive five straight games with­
out losing will be crowned cam­
pus champion for 1958.
Since one loss knocks any team 
out, the competition is wide open. 
Initial games pairing strong teams 
include ATO “A” against the 
ASCE, and the Grad Iggles against 
Sigma Nu “A”, last year’s cham­
pion. Managers should check the 
bulletin board daily for changes 
in the schedule.
enlate 
(Guttural
C^-aHencliar
By Natalie Laird
The folk arts committee of the 
YWCA will present a folk song 
concert by Pete Seeger at Car­
negie Lecture Hall on Tuesday, 
May 13, at 8:30 p.m. Admission 
is $1.40 and tickets are available 
at the downtown YWCA 203 
Wood Street, the Oakland YWCA 
405 S. Dithridge Street, the Jo­
seph Horne Co. ticket office, and 
the Sam Goody record store.
The department of music will 
present a piano recital by Char- 
maine Bishkoff, given in partial 
fulfillment of the requirements 
for the degree of Master of Fine 
Arts, on Thursday, May 15, at 
8:30 p.m. in the exhibition hall. 
The program wrill include:
Piano Recital 
Prelude and Fugue in E Ma­
jor from Book II of the 
Well Tempered Clavier..
Bach
Sonata in E Flat Major, Op.
31, No. 3..........Beethoven
Allegro
Scherzo, Allegretto vivace 
Penuetto, Moderato e graz- 
ioso
Presto con fuoco 
Symphonic Etudes:Schumann 
Children’s Corner. .. Debussy 
Doctor Gradus ad Par- 
nassum 
Jimbo’s Lullaby 
Serenade of the Doll 
The Snow is Dancing 
The Little Shepherd 
Golliwogg’s Cake Walk 
Sonata No. 2 in d minor,
Op. 14 ................Prokofieff
Allegro ma non troppo 
Scherzo, Allegro marcato 
Andante 
Vivace
Concert
The department of music will 
present a concert by the student 
string orchestra under the direc­
tion of Gosta Andreasson on May 
18, at 8:30 p.m. in the Carnegie 
Theater. The program will con­
sist of the following:
Concertino in F minor for 
String Orchestra. Pergolesi 
Largo
Allegro giusto 
Andante
Allegro conspirito 
La Folia for Violin and String
Orchestra ..................Corelli
Harold Baugh, violin 
Music for Mourning for Viola
and String Orchestra..........
Hindemith 
Filia Moraitis, viola 
Five Pieces for String Or­
chestra, Op. 44, No. 4 ...
Hindemith
Slowly
Slowly-Quickly
Lively
Very slowly 
Lively 
Joseph Bishkoff, violin 
Divertimento in D Major
K. 136 ......................Mozart
[continued on page i]
Obelisks,Faculiyln 
Handball Playoffs
Handball
The Obelisks won the Backwall 
League in handball, w’hile the Fac­
ulty Bulldogs took the Frontwall 
League title. Phi Kappa placed 
second to the Obelisks, and Beta 
Sigma Rho was runner-up to the 
Faculty. In the playoffs, Obelisk 
defeated Beta Sigma Rho 3-0 to 
remain undefeated, and the Fac­
ulty Bulldogs topped Phi Kappa 
3-0 for another perfect season.
In the championship match Fri­
day afternoon, the Faculty re­
tained its title and extended its 
string of wins to over thirteen. 
Athletic Director Mel Cratsley de­
feated Jim Thompson 15-1, 15-4. 
Mr. B^yer topped Don Humes 
15-2, 15-3; and Mr. Birdy defeated 
Leo Tomajko 15-9, 15-7 to five 
the Faculty a 3-0 victory. This 
match continues the Faculty’s rec­
ord of never having lost even a 
single game in intramural com­
petition, and gives them their sec­
ond straight title.

---------------------------------------------------

Pagre 6—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, May 13. 195f
A drama of crime jjtP punishment ¿
WINSTON TASTES GOOD.UKE A CIGARETTE SHOULD
FILTER
CIGARETTE
Tennis Team Beats St. Francis; 
Allegheny, Westminster-Loses
Carnegie Tech’s tennis squad 
suffered a losing week last week 
losing two matches and winning 
one. This brought the season rec­
ord to 3 wins and 4 losses.
On Saturday, May 10, Tech 
journeyed to Meadville to meet 
Allegheny’s unbeaten tennis 
squad. Playing without number 
one man Gene Krygowski, who 
was unable to make the trip, and 
perhaps tired from playing their 
third match in three days, the 
Tartans lost ignominously 8 to 1. 
One cheerful note for the day was 
Tech’s only win by Thira Suivon, 
a freshman. Thira looked good in 
the sixth singles.
Tech shut out an outclassed St. 
Francis squad last Friday 9 to 0. 
The Tartans looked 100% better 
than on the previous day’s loss in 
sweeping the match, held on 
Tech’s courts.
The match scheduled for Wed-
Bowen Awarded 
IM Man Of The 
Year Tropliy
The Tartan award for Intra­
mural Man of the Year was 
awarded to Bruce Bowen this year 
at Call Day ceremonies. This an­
nual award is given for the senior 
who has done the most to pro­
mote the intramural sports pro­
gram of the Tech campus.
Bowen has served very actively 
on the intramural board for four 
years and held the offices of sec­
retary and treasurer. He was also 
a member of managers' club and 
served as president for two of the 
three years that he was a member.
As a member of the Delta Tau 
Delta fraternity sports teams, 
Bruce played football, basketball, 
softball, volleyball, and bowled. 
He was a member of this year’s 
all school intramural football team 
as a center.
Bruce has also made all-league 
basketball and football teams and
nesday, May 8, was rescheduled 
for Thursday which became a se­
cret. Tech’s first two singles play­
ers Gene Krygowski and Larry 
Dussair went blissfully to the 
Printers’ picnic and a movie, re­
spectively, and another player was 
pulled from a test. Westminster 
won the match 5 to 4, with the aid 
of a forfeited singles match.
Mario Volpe and Kent williams 
won singles matches for the Tar­
tans and the teams of Kent Wil­
liams and Tom Bieg, and John 
Oehler and Thira' Suivon won in 
doubles. The team played poorly 
after a five day layoff due to the 
rain, in being upset by the rela­
tively weak visitors.
The tennis squad hasn’t lived 
up to its preseason promises. With 
five letterwinners returning Coach 
Moses expected a big improve­
ment over last year’s 5-4 recford. 
However, unexpected losses to 
Geneva and Westminster swelled 
the loss column to 4 of 7 matches, 
with three remaining; 2 with Du- 
quesne away on Monday and at 
home, of Saturday of this week, 
and at Pitt on Wednesday.
The Duquesne matches should 
be be easy wins, but Pitt is strong. 
This match should determine 
whether Tech’s record is 6-4 or 
5-5.
was all-school center-fielder on 
the Delt softball team.
As a freshman, Bruce was a 
member of the Delt’s intramural 
champion bowling team which 
went through league and playoff 
competition undefeated.
In addition to all these accom­
plishments, Bowen served as head 
of sports day festivities during 
freshman orientation week for the 
past two years, and was a sports 
reporter for the Tartan.
Bruce is a member of the Print­
ing Management department, and 
was recently married. Congratula­
tions to Bruce on an award well 
deserved.
US vs. USSR—
[continued from page 2] 
of steel and other vital materials, 
we are far ahead of them. How­
ever, we use a large part of our 
industrial capacity for the manu­
facture of consumer goods which 
the Communists compel their 
people to do without. In conse­
quence, the Soviet government is 
able to concentrate all of its in­
dustrial capacity-as it chooses for 
weapons manufacture. If we de­
cide to devote more of our nation­
al product to defense require­
ments, we have the unquestioned 
ability to surpass Soviet produc­
tive capacity.
In the atomic field, I believe we 
are .well ahead of the Russians, 
which is to say that we have more 
and superior atomic weapons. We 
have atomic submarines, while the 
Soviets have never displayed one. 
So far as they have announced the 
Communists have in operation 
only one small atomic power 
plant, while we have 23 nuclear 
reactors for the production of 
power and 44 under construction. 
We were ahead of the Russians in 
the atomic field in the beginning, 
we appear to be ahead of them 
now, and we should continue our 
lead, given the continued support 
of science and technology by the 
Congress.
Admiral Burke: I don’t think 
the Russians are “ahead of us” in 
any of these fields. They have 
made big technical advances; their ’ 
scientific accomplishments have , 
been significant; production capa- j 
city has been increased. As the 
Soviet Union has concentrated on 
military hardware, she may in the 
future be able to equal our mili- ! 
tary-production capacity. At the 
moment, I do not think she does.
There is no doubt that, with 
their sputniks, the Soviets did ob­
tain a propaganda success far 
greater than the actual avhieve- 
ment warranted. Such Soviet , 
acievements, however, do not 
have great significanc in regard to
the present balance of power. And 
so long as we retain the capabil­
ity, to destroy the U.S.S.R. from 
several directions and in several 
different ways, this balance of 
power will not shift.
General LeMay: The Russians 
are “ahead of us” in certain fields 
of scientific accomplishments, just 
as we are ahead of them in others. 
They got the jump on us in mis­
sile development, for instance, and 
it is always hard to catch up. We 
can, however, outproduce the 
Russians in anything. Any time 
we decide to switch from con­
sumer goods to weapons, we can 
out-produce them in weapons, 
too.
The United States is today more 
powerful militarily than the So­
viet Union, especially in respect 
to the military force that can be 
brought to bear on the enemy the 
day war starts, chiefly long-range 
attack aircraft armed with nuclear 
weapons. The decision will be 
achieved in the first few days of 
conflict, in air battle. Whoever 
wins that battle for control of the 
air will have won the war.
V. What precautions are being 
taken to make sure that atomic 
war does not start accidentally? 
Isn’t there a chance that, through 
the misunderstanding of orders, 
or the irresponsible behavior of 
individuals, an atomic warhead 
may be propelled into the Soviet 
Union or the United States, there­
by setting off all-out war before 
the error can be explained?
Mr. Strauss: It is certainly as 
much in the interest of the So­
viets as it is in ours to make sure 
that an atomic war does not begin 
by accident. Therefore one might 
assume that they are taking pre­
cautions generally similar to ours. 
The accidental crashing of a plane 
carrying our weapons should not 
cause an atomic explosion. There 
is a certain amount of conven­
tional explosives in some atomic 
weapons which might explode in 
a crash, but the damage would 
not be much greater than that 
caused by the explosion of the 
gasoline in the plane.
The atomic weapon itself is de­
signed to explode only after it has
Elections— ^
[continued from page 1] 
John Philbrick 
Gen. Science—Kathy Ammanito 
Secretarial—Becky Conrad 
Recently elected fraternity and 
sorority representatives for next 
year are:
ATO—Paul Stotsenburg 
BSR—Jan Chaiken 
BTP—John Hood «v ,
DU—Bob Martin 
DTD—Donald Zakman 
KS—Jim Renaldo 
PK—Walter Benecki 
PKA—Louis Pondy 
SAE—Philip Rosi 
SN—Tom Evans 
TDP—Lee Adelsberg 
TX—Richard Brand 
AEP—Carol J. Hersch 
Chi O—Irene Dinning 
DDD—M. J. Stevens 
DG—Peggy Barber 4
KAT—Jackie Thurston 
KKG—Betsy Beachley 
SK—Beverly Ciesielski 
To date only two commuter rep­
resentatives have filed the peti­
tion with the-necessary signatures 
to become representatives. They 
are Fran Chleboski and Terrie 
; Rudy.
Elections for next year’s Con­
gress will be complete when the 
fourteen dormitory delegates !$» 
chosen. These representatives will 
take office in the fall.
been previously armed by specific 
adjustments intended for that 
purpose. It is for this reason that 
we believe there is no atomic 
danger as a result of the bombs 
which are carried in flight every 
day. Of course there is always the 
possibility that a mad or irrespon­
sible person or government 
possession of nuclear weapons 
could start a war. This is one of 
the reasons which has impelled 
the United States ever since 1946 
to make the most earnest and 
persistent efforts to achieve real 
atomic disarmament, inspected 
and controlled.
Admiral Burke: Accidental war 
is an extremely remote possibility 
! so far as the United States is con- 
I [continued ^njpage^^
SUPER-TAJIMSTON 
PRODUCTIONS PRESENTS“IN THESOUP”
WINSTON
AMERICA'S ’ * 
BEST-SELLING. 
BEST-TASTING
Üiiii
WIMSTOhI3BACC0RtrHOtOi
DRILL?
DRILL

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, May 13, 1958—Q^RNEGIE TARTAN5—Page 7
CARNEGIE (/
This page edited by Evening School Students of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology
Editor....................................................... Arden Elizabeth Bahl
Reporters—Ralph Czernek, Sandra Joy Dunn, Helen Bonner, Marlene 
Zappa, Vic Sabol, Dick Cortez.
Evening Achievement Award 
Presented To Kenneth Pore
& Each year the candidates for Bachelor’s degrees from 
the evening classes are examined in relation to their personal 
traits and characteristics and the type, as well as the responsi­
bilities of their employment, in conjunction with other con­
siderations all of which are evaluated to establish the basis 
for the Evening Student Achieve-^ 
ment Award.
The award itself consists of the 
awardee’s name being engraved 
on a plaque which is displayed 
the first floor of Administration 
K'll. Also, he is presented with a 
key upon which his name is en­
graved and a certificate stating the 
nature of the award.
This year the award, which is 
presented at the evening student 
banquet, was given to Mr. Ken­
neth Alda Pore.
Ken will receive his Bachelor of 
Science degree in mechanical en-
ÄilÄ
Ken Pore
Recipient of evening school award
gineering this June. He has been 
attending evening school at Car- 
egie for the past eleven years, 
'uring this time he has earned 
several insignia awards and serv­
ed in various positions for Student 
Council, being vice president in 
1953.
Ken is 32 years old, married, 
and has one daughter. During 
World War II he served in the 
Navy. Upon his return to civilian
[ WILBUß JUST WOKE UP TO 
THE FACT THAT HE'S IN CLASS!
KEEP ALERT FORA 
BETTER POINT AVERAGE!
pon’t let that “drowsy feel*
Ing” cramp your style in class 
... or when you’re "hitting 
the books”. Take a NoDo? 
Awakener! In a few minutes, 
you’ll be your normal best... 
(vide awake . . . alert! You! 
doctor will tell you-^NoDoa 
Awakeners ate safe as coffee. 
Keep a pack handy!
15 TABLETS, 35c
35 tablets 
Pr bandy tin 
69«NOQOZ
AWAKENERS
life, he entered Tech evening 
school and was employed by the 
Allis- Chalmers Manufacturing 
Company as a design draftsman 
in their development section.
Ken left in 1955 to begin work­
ing with the Dravo Corporation 
as a draftsman in their engineer­
ing construction department. He 
worked as lead draftsman for 
Dravo at Shippingport Atomic 
Power Plant coordinating piping 
arrangements and revisions with 
the various field groups and 
principal contractors.
Ken has proven his ability both 
at school and at his job and justly 
earned the Evening Student 
Achievement Award.
Evening Newman 
Club Hokls Final 
Meeting Of Year
On Sunday evening, May 4, 
Evening School Newman Club 
held its final regular meeting. 
The officers officially turned over 
all business to the recently elept- 
ed officers, who are:
Frank Barlock—president 
Mary Margaret Devlin — 1st 
vice president 
Arden Bahl—2nd vice president 
Nelson Niccolai—corresponding 
secretary 
Gene Dragojevich—treasurer 
Marjorie Shue—recording sec­
retary
Leo Alman & 
The Combo
HA. 1-2083
FOR COMPLETE 
HARDWARE, PAINT, 
and GIFT SELECTIONS 
• Try Us First •
OAKLAND HARDWARE
ÏS06 Forbes St. - MA 1-0923
Evening Council
Old council members (back row) left to right: John Spisak, Tom Brax, Margaret Devlin, Cor.rad 
Delewski. New council members (front row) left to right: Gene Dragojevich, Arden Bari, Frank Bar­
lock, Nelson Niccolai.
Evening School 
Annual Dinner
Saturday evening May 3, the 
Vogue Terrace was the scene of 
the 43rd annual evening student’s 
banquet. The guest speaker for 
the affair, Mr. A. A. Johnson, 
spoke on “Educational and Pro­
fessional Growth.”
Presiding over the festivities 
was Dr. Robert B. Carlin, profes­
sor of chemistry, whose witty and 
timely remarks generated an en­
thusiastic response from those 
present.
Also included on the evening’s 
agenda was the introduction of 
next year’s officers for Evening 
Student Council recognition of 
graduating students, arid present­
ation of the Evening Student 
Award.
Some fifty door prizes were dis­
tributed. Music for dancing was 
provided by Everett Niell and his 
orchestra.
Tech Students Win 
National Science 
Foundation Awartl
Forty-three students of Car­
negie Institute of Technology 
have been named by the National 
Science Foundation as award 
winners in its annual fellowship 
competitions for 1958-59. The 
Foundation’s program provides 
for graduate study at government 
expense in various fields of sci­
ence.
The awards include two post­
doctoral fellowships, won by Ray­
mond A. Sorenson of 1112 So. 
Braddock Avenue, Pittsburgh 
(Edgewood), and Dr. Donald A. 
Geffen of 2220 Wightman Street, 
Pittsburgh (Squirrel Hill); fifteen 
predoctoral fellowships; and 
twenty-five honorary awards.
Predoctoral fellowships winners 
include: Walter J. Bertram, Jr., 
Physics; John R. Bodoia, M.E.; 
Kenneth T. R. Davies, Physics; 
David B. Eardley, EE; Robert L. 
Goodrich, Physics; David R. Har­
rington, E.E.; Jere W. Hohmann,
FOOTWEAR FOR COLLEGE MEN AND WOMEN
Acrobatics, Ski Boots, Soft and Hard Toe Slippers, Des­
ert Boots, Tap Shoes, Bedroom Slippers, Ice and Roller 
Skates and Shoes, Tennis Shoes, Dress Shoes, Rubbers 
and Galoshes.
Save up to 40% Open 9 to 9
LITTLE S Shoe Store
Belter Shoes For Less5850 Forbes St.
j E.E.; Lewis E. Johns, Jr., Chem.
! E.; Robert H. Marik, Chem. E.;
| Donald B. Peterson, Chemistry; 
Walter K. Sartory, Chem. E.; Wil­
liam H. Starbuck, I.M.; R. Rhoads 
Stephenson, M.E.; John W. Wes- 
ner, Jr., M.E.; Don Wood, Chem. E.
Honorary awards winners in­
clude: Robert B. Anderson, C.E.; 
Edward A. Bartkus, Chemistry; 
Gerard Blahut, Chem. E.; Betty 
L. Brandau, Chemistry; Donald 
C. Cronauer, Chem. E.; Richard 
Davies, Physics; Robert H. Detig, 
E.E.; Charles T. Devlin, M.E.; 
Robert S. Engelmore, Physics; 
James M. Feldman, E.E.; Donald 
Lee Feucht, E.E.; John L. Hall, 
Physics; Donald R. Kerr, E.E.; 
Frank J. Loss, M.E.; James H. 
McFee, Physics; Marshal F. Mer-
Pifsco Breakfast 
To Be Final Event
A comunion breakfast will be 
held for PIFCSO’s board of gov­
ernors on Sunday, May 18. after 
9 o’clock Mass at St. Paul’s Ca­
thedral. A business meeting and 
election of officers will follow the 
breakfast, which is being held at 
the Ruskin dining room.
Potential delegates for next 
year are also invited to attend.. 
The communion breakfast has 
been designated as PIFCSO’s final 
event of the term.
in Washington, D.c. in March. This 
included marching in the cherry 
blossom festival parade. The first riam, Physics; William S. Minkler, battalion drm meet was held here 
M.E.; Harvey C. Nathanson, E.E., -n Pittsburgh and sponsored by 
James B. Nelson, Physics; Reim Carnegie Tech.
J. Norman, E.E.; Richard T. 
O’Neill, Chemistry; Benjamin 
Patz, E.E.; Anthony D. Bobbi, E. 
E.; Victor A. Schmidt, Physics; 
Edwin J. Woll, Jr., Physics.
Pershing Rifle 
Provides Many 
Tech Activities
The purpose of Pershing Rifles, 
National Honorary Military So­
ciety is to encourage, preserve, 
and develop the highest ideals of
Later this month, the team will 
gi to the regimental drill meet 
in Harrisburg. The members are 
confident they can equal if not 
better the performance of last year 
when they placed first in the Pitts­
burgh area and fifth in the whole 
Regimental Drill Meet.
General Pershing 
Pershing Rifles got its start at 
the University of Nebraska where 
they still have national head­
quarters. In 1894, Secon ' Lt. John 
J. Pershing, the late General 
Pershing, organized a special drill 
team known as the Varsity Rifles.
the military profession, to pro- | This team soon earned for itself an 
mote American citizenship, to ere- j enviable reputation, and when Lt. 
ate a closer and more efficient re- Pershing left the university, was
lation, and to provide appropriate 
recognition of a high degree of 
military ability among the cadets 
of the Reserve Officers Training 
Corps units of the organization.
Among activities is the Persh­
ing Rifles Track Drill Team 
which has peiformed for the .reg­
iment here at Tech and also on 
several other occasions. Among 
these was the National R.O.T.C. 
Invitational Drill Competition held
named Pershing Rifles in honor of 
him. Its growing fame soon 
prompted similar drill units at 
other schools to request affiliation 
with the Pershing Rifles organiza­
tion.
APARTMENTS TO RENT
Nice 4 room and bath fur­
nished apt. Large living 
room, complete kitchen, 2 
bed rooms each with twin 
beds. Laundry facilities. 
For 4 students $31.25 ea^h 
per month. Available June 
1st.
Also
Nicely furnished 2 room 
private bath and kitch­
enette apt. Twin bed for 2 
students. $42.50 each per 
month. Phone JA 1-2497 
after 5 p.m. Available May 
1st.
Plii Gamma Pi 
Sponsors Tea
Phi Gamma Pi sorority held a 
tea in honor of their mothers on 
May 11 at Carnegie Union. Fol­
lowing refreshments a shower 
was held for Sandra Dunn. The 
event was the last on the soror­
ity’s social calendar for the term.
Shanahan
Storage
All Private Rooms
3460 Fifth Avenue 
7535 Penn Avenue 
Mayflower 1-7800
IS at ion Wide 
Furniture Movers

---------------------------------------------------

Pftfc »—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, May IS. 19SI
FOR A MAN’S KIND OF «HAVEGET J
I n Na t m
MAN-SIZED M 
SHAVER... W8
ni»
YMCA Weekend 
Held Mav 10-11,•/
Very Successful
By Beth Linden
This past weekend, a group of 
twenty-four Tech students attend­
ed a conference at Camp Kon-O- 
Kwee, about thirty-five miles 
north of Pittsburgh. The weekend 
was sponsored by the YM-YWCA.
A series of three stimulating 
and provocative discussion periods 
on the topic, “The Hazards and 
Values of Skepticism,” were led 
by Doctors Edwin Fenton and Roy 
Curry of the History Department. 
Recreation was provided and a 
campfire was held Saturday eve­
ning, climaxed by impromptu 
skits which correlated with the 
topic under discussion.
Ruth Shinn and Richard Batch- 
elder, co-ordinators of religious 
affairs at Tech, aided in the or­
ganization of the conference. All 
in attendance agreed that the con­
ference was successful, especially 
in that it promoted better student- 
faculty relations and allowed for 
free exchange of ideas in a casual 
atmosphere. Further conferences 
of this type will be planned by 
the YM-YWCA council next fall.
Bureau
[contiiiued from page 3] 
related manufacturing processes 
are loaned to educational institu­
tions, industries, civic and busi­
ness associations, and other re­
sponsible organizations. The main 
distribution center is the Pitts­
burgh bux-eau. They are sent free 
of charge and the borrower pays 
the return postage only.
Another special section of this 
bureau is the computing center. 
Many of the reports and data in­
volving computation from other 
Bureaus are done in Pittsburgh on 
the Remington Rand Univac 60 
Punch-Card Electric Computer 
with accompanying tabulating 
equipment. Budget accounting and 
property inventory are also being 
run on the computer, the latter 
involving some 80,000 pieces of 
government property with a turn­
over rate of 500 per month.
Provost—
[continued from page 1] 
Tech. his major role has been in 
the sphere of educational policy. 
He has been particularly concern­
ed with the part which the hu­
manities and social science courses 
should play in the professional 
curricula, and with the content of 
courses in such subjects as Eng­
lish. history, and psychology in a 
professional school.
Educational Methods
He has also been concerned with 
teaching methods and standards 
throughout the school. Without di­
rect administraftive responsibilities, 
a provost is free to devote himself 
to consultation with department 
heads and individual teachers 
about what engineering and other 
professional students most need to 
learn, and how they can best 
learn it.
The nature of his work has re­
sulted in Provost Smith’s being 
unknown to a large number of 
students. He has, however, met 
with or addressed a number of 
student groups on the campus and 
has been baccalaureate speaker 
on several occasions. He will fill 
this role for the last time at Tech 
on June 9 when he speaks to this 
year’s graduating class.
Seminar
Dr. Robert W. Morgan of 
the psychology department 
will address a general studies 
seminar Friday, May 16, at 
3:36. The topic of the seminar, 
which is tentatively scheduled 
for the MMCC student lounge, 
is The Vassar Study. All gen­
eral studies students are in­
vited.
VS vs. VSSR—
[continued from page 6] 
cerned. Our systems of control are 
as foolproof as possible. It is rea­
sonable to assume that any poten­
tial enemy is similarly restrained, 
because he must realize that ini­
tiating war would spell the ruin 
of his own counti'y.
General LeMay: There will al­
ways be a chance that war can 
start accidentally. There always 
has been, even in bow-and-arrow 
days. The development of nuclear 
weapons does not make accident­
al war any more likely.
VI. Will the United States have 
to become a modern Sparta—sac­
rificing much of the American 
way of life—inorder to keep up 
with the Russians in the atomic 
arms race in years to come?
Geenral LeMay: No Our stand­
ard of living is fortunately so 
high that reducing it even a little 
will enable us to pay for military 
security. This is doubly true if we 
will get rid of the needless ex­
pense of maintaining any and all 
weapons systems that cannot be 
effectively brought to bear on the 
enemy the day war starts.
Mr. Strauss: We cannot have 
assured national defense without 
making sacrifices. The nearly two- 
score billion dollars we spend on 
defense each year is a great sacri­
fice on the part of millions of tax­
payers. The American people have 
always been willing to make sac­
rifices to preserve their liberty in 
war. We are in a period now 
where great sacrifices will be con­
tinuously required to prevent war.
Admiral Burke: There is no 
doubt that Americans will have 
to take another look at some of 
the accepted conveniences now 
enjoyed, and weigh them against 
the requirements to keep our de­
fenses strong. It is not so much 
a question of sacrifice as it is a 
question of whether we are will­
ing to channel our individual and 
national resources to meet the 
emergency. I do not see a need 
for changing the American way 
of life — I do see a need for hard 
work. We have worked hard and 
sacrificed in times of national em­
ergency before, and we will do so 
again. That is part of the Amer­
ican way of life.
VII. Is there a real possibility 
ofa lasting peace between the So­
viet Union and the United States?
Admiral Burke: Yes—but the 
onus is on the Soviet Union. The 
United States has never seriously 
been labeled as an aggressor. The 
peace of the world today rests on 
our strength—until such time as 
the Russians demonstrate a real 
desire for peace.
General LeMay: Yes—just so 
long as the United States stays 
stronger than the Sovnet Union.
Mr. Strauss: Of course, one
must hope that there is a real pos­
sibility of lasting peace, but never 
on the basis of Soviet promises. 
We cannot put our security and 
our liberty at the mercy of the 
mere pledge of a government 
which, in the 40 years of its exist­
ence, has violated scores of agree­
ments. Lasting peace can be 
achieved only as a result of mu­
tual, inspected, controlled disarm­
ament and the eventual reconcili­
ation of conflicting objectives.
This informed analysis of the 
U.S.-U.S.S.R. situation has been 
succinctly summed up by the 
Commander in Chief of the three 
high government officials who 
made it. President Eisenhower, in 
his State of the Union message to 
the Congress, said:
“As of today, our .defensive 
shield comprehends a vast com­
plex of ground, sea and air units, 
superbly equipped and strategic­
ally deployed around the world. 
The most powerful deterrent to 
war in the world lies in the re­
taliatory power of our Strategic 
Air Command and the aircraft of 
our Navy. They present to any 
potential attacker who would un­
least war upon the world the 
prospect of virtual annihilation of 
his own country. Even if we as­
sume a surprise attack on our 
bases, with a marked reduction 
in our striking power, our bomb-
Cultural-
[continued from page 5] 
Allegro 
Andante 
Presto
Fine Arts
Carnegie College of Fine Arts 
announces the opening of an ex­
hibition* of the work of faculty 
members in the department v« 
painting, design, and sculpture, 
to be shown in the Hewlett Gal­
lery from May 12 through May 
23. The colection will include oil, 
casein, goauche, and polymer 
paintings; lithographs; stone ware 
pottery; industrial design models; 
enamels on copper and silver; 
acrylic plastic constructions;, and 
steel sculpture. The gallery is 
open from 8:30 to 5 p.m. Mondf°* 
through Saturday.
Home Ec Tea
The Home Economics Club will 
hold its annual Blossom Tea in 
honor of the Seniors on Wednes­
day, May 21, at 3:30 in the Car­
negie Union.
ers would immediately be on the»? 
way in sufficient strength to ac­
complish this mission of retalia­
tion. Every informed government 
knows this. It is no secret."
ofOAKLNDK oDHHfRNoAR
the only shaver with built-in rollers
Give your favorite face a break — 
start shaving it faster, closer, with 
Roller Comb comfort So kind to your 
skin, the Rollectric never irritates 
no matter how hard you press.
With three diamond-honed double 
shaving heads, Rollectric shaves 
far, far faster. It puts more area into 
actual shaving contact than other 
brands, all made with one or two 
ordinary heads.
Rollectric's exclusive Roller Combs 
make fast close shaving truly com­
fortable. They press skin down, pop
whiskers up - let you shave at the 
true whisker base.
With Rollectric - you’re always sure 
of a peach of a shave — in absolute 
comfort!
Another Remington Exclusive I
Remington Auto-Home Rollectric.
Shave anywhere-in home, car, plane 
or boat! It goes where you go! Has 
every advantage of the regular Rem­
ington Rollectric.
Ask your dealer about his liberal al* 
lowance when you trade-in any of the 
5 top brands for a new Remington!
GENTLEI
THE FUZZ OFFA PEACH WITHOUT
^Product of Remington Rand Electric Sha»er, Division Of Soerry Rand Corporation. Bridgeport 2. Connecticut
Watch TVs No. 1 show. GUNSVOKE. on CES TV Network
80 POWERFUL I
IT SHAVES OFF BRISTLES TOUGHER THAN, 
ANY WHISKERS.
