Inside
Calendar....
Classified...
Comics.......I Diversions...
Living..........
Forum..........
Sports.........
......L6
...L6
Forum
Dorms suit Freshman 
• see page 6
Features
Explore CMU architecture 
• see page LI
Mark Adato/Tartan Assistant Art Editor
Diversions
Preview Fall films 
• see page Lll
THE TARTAN
Volume 92, Issue 4Carnegie Mellon University's Student Newspaper Since 190G22 September 1997
Summer’s fading fast...
Ryan Laird/Tartan Junior Staff 
Students enjoy the late September summer sunshine on the steps outside of Doherty Hall.
CMU expands Campus 
Xpress into local area
Pittsburgh faces 
economic choices
By SHARMILA VENKATASUBBAN
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
In response to surveys conducted by student 
body presidential committees, students may 
soon be able to use their Campus Xpress ac­
counts to pay for off-campus purchases made in 
neighboring areas of Oakland, Shadyside, and 
Squirrel Hill. By next fall, Business Services 
hopes to have in place a new ID card system 
that will allow students to buy food, clothes, 
and other retail services using the University 
debit system.
Right now, Campus Xpress accounts are valid 
at campus food vendors and all dining and retail 
services in the University Center, including En­
tropy. Students will also be able to use Campus 
Xpress at Entropy East once it opens. The only 
off-campus vendor that students currently have 
access to through their Campus Xpress accounts 
is Pizza Outlet.
While specific vendors have not been chosen 
yet, decisions will be made based on recommen­
dations from student surveys. So far the top 
suggestions for vendors include Giant Eagle, 
Eat ’N Park, Subway, and Blockbuster Videos. 
Negotiations with possible businesses should 
begin by January.
“Most students really go for [Campus Xpress]
because it’s easier for most parents to write a 
check to CMU than give spending money to 
their kids,” said Student Government Presi­
dent Bryon Krug, who participated in the presi­
dential committee along with four other Senate 
members. Krug is a senior electrical and com­
puter engineering major.
The committee took their report to adminis­
trators last spring, when talks of expansion 
officially began. “They put together a very 
thoughtful report — very helpful to our purpose 
here,” said Neal Binstock, assistant vice presi­
dent of Business Services.
Before the expansion can take place, the exist­
ing system, which enables CMU affiliates to use 
their ID to make on-campus purchases, must be 
updated. “It’s overloaded and there’s no capabil­
ity to expand,” said Binstock. “I’ve had this idea 
for five or six years, but it was never a possibility 
in the past because our technology is so old. We 
are so obsolete by this point that we need a new 
system.”
Binstock hopes to implement the new system 
by next June. “We are embarking on a team 
project to expand technology at CMU,” he said. 
“And I stress team — there’s a broad represen­
tation of people and interests working together 
to make the move.”
Please see XPRESS, page 3
PITTSBURGH, September 21 
(AP) — This is no ordinary min­
ing machine and no ordinary 
building where scientists are tink­
ering with it. The 25-foot-long 
machine, which can churn loose 
several tons of soft coal a day, is 
being rigged with a computer sys­
tem so a single’operator can drive 
it from above ground rather than 
a team of workers down below, 
reducing workers’ exposure to the 
danger of the mines.
The building housing the ma­
chine, once a pipe and valve 
plant, was vacant for decades 
before the city bought it in 1994. 
Now renovated and leased to 
CMU, it serves as a center for 
scientists developingrobotic sys­
tems to operate vehicles and 
machinery.
“We can make any machine 
intelligent, from a car to a lawn 
mower,” said R..Craig Coulter, a 
project scientist. Pointing to a 
harvester, he said, “We can run 
that with a cell phone.” Oh, and 
by the way, Coulter predicted 
that robotic systems would gen­
erate annual sales of $40 billion 
within five years for the growing 
number of companies develop­
ing them.
Long past its prime as the 
nation’s leading steel producer, 
Pittsburgh is blooming all along
plants and technology centers.
Yet for all the progress of the 
post-industrial years, Pittsburgh 
is at a crossroads. The city and 
the surrounding 10 counties face 
a November referendum to fi­
nance several major projects, 
which officials say could deter­
mine whether the city continues 
its path of improvement.
Despite the recent growth of 
high-technology concerns and 
small businesses, the city’s popu­
lation has fallen to 360,000, a 
mighty drop from its peak of 
676,000 in 1950. Allegheny 
County, which includes Pitts­
burgh and 129 smaller munici­
palities, dropped to 1.33 million 
in 1990 from 1.45 million in 1980.
Many graduates of CMU, the 
University of Pittsburgh, and 
Duquesne University have 
sought careers elsewhere.
In November, voters in Pitts­
burgh, Allegheny County, and 
nine surrounding counties will 
have their next chance to say yes 
or no on a new sales tax to finance 
development. Business and civic 
leaders say the choice could de­
termine whether the city leaps or 
limps into the 21st century, while 
others warn that the tax would 
drive out still more residents 
while primarily benefiting the 
city’s sports teams.
“This is critical... This would put us 
in a position to compete with many 
other cities. ”
— Mayor Tom Murphy
the three rivers that converge at 
its heart. High technology, health 
services and banking have be­
come the anchors of a steadily 
diversifying economy. Crime 
rates and real estate costs are 
among the lowest of any big city 
in the country, and the vacant 
lots and hulking shells of long- 
abandoned steel mills are being 
turned into parks, residential 
developments, manufacturing
The referendum, known as the 
Regional Renaissance Initiative, 
proposes a half-cent sales tax in­
crease that could generate as 
much as $700 million by the time 
it ends in seven years. Most of the 
money would be used in Pitts­
burgh for two downtown stadi­
ums for the city’s professional 
baseball and football teams, the 
Pirates and the Steelers, a major 
Please see PITTSBURGH, page 3
Senate debates Activities Fee hike
pus, such as the Activities Board and WRCT. “If, however, student organizations think 
It is used to pay for Spring Carnival and for that, [an increase in the Activities Fee] is
special events and projects such as a portion 
of the new 35 mm projection system in 
McConomy Auditorium.
Several key Student Government mem­
bers, Krug, Senate Funding and Recognition
By RYAN SCHILLING
!TarJan Assistant News^ Editor
The last time the Activities Fee was raised, 
most CMU students were still in middle 
school or just starting high school, the Per­
sian Gulf War had yet to occur, and we had 
no idea that we would end up at Carn- _ 
egie Mellon University.
In fact, very few things have remained 
static for the past seven years—but the 
student Activity Fee at CMU has. This 
year, it remains $50 per semester, the 
amount that it was proposed to be raised 
to back in 1990. However, that is more 
than likely about to change with Stu­
dent Government currently debating
whether or not to raise the Activities____________________________________________
Fee — and if so, by how much.
“The amount of things that can be 
pin-chased with the Activities Fee has de- Chair, Eamon Keleher, and Student Body 
creased substantially due to inflation,” said Vice President Matt Phelps, have been meet- 
Student Body President Bryon Krug. “In ing with the leaders of the major student 
addition to this, the number of funded orga-, organizations to survey opinions on the pos- 
nizations has increased dramatically. Rather 
than maintain the status quo and allow the 
amount we can do with the fees deteriorate 
each year, we felt this option is at least 
worth exploring.”
The Activities Fee funds most of non-ex-
riecessary, we will open tiie discussion to the 
entire campus,” said Krug. “We would then 
most likely send the proposal to a referen­
dum in the fall Student Government Elec­
tions. We do not want to substantially change
“The amount of things that can be purchased with 
the activities fee has decreased substantially ... 
[and] the number of funded organizations has in­
creased dramatically. ”
— Bryon Krug, student body president
the Activities Fee unless students want us 
to do so.”
The University administration, while it 
would have to accept the proposal at the 
end of the process, has no say in the matter 
as of now.
“It really is in the hands of the students 
right now,” said Dean of Student Affairs 
Michael Murphy. “But with as many new 
student organizations as there are today, 
there is a certain logic to it.”
sible increase. If the feedback they get from 
these meetings is positive, they will meet 
with the leaders of all the student organiza­
tions funded by the Activities Fees.
If the organizations as a whole do not 
believe there should be an increase, there
elusive, non-academic organizations on cam- will be no proposal to Student Senate.Roberts Hall first floor construction begins
By LUKE BRINDLE
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The final stage in the construc­
tion of Roberts Hall will begin 
this winter. The building was 
officially dedicated in May, but 
only its top three floors were 
completed. In what is called 
“phase n,” the first floor will be 
finished and divided into offices 
and laboratories.
Roberts Hall can be accessed 
through the B Level of 
Hamerschlag Hall or through a 
tunnel that connects the build­
ing to the lower level of 
Hamerschlag.
Construction of phase II 
should start late this year or 
early in 1998. “The funding has 
not gotten approved yet,” said 
Peg Hart, Facilities Manager. 
Building contracts are still be­
ing worked out, she said, but the 
project is expected to cost about 
$3 million.
Roberts Hall houses interde­
partmental research in elec­
tronics. Currently, electrical 
and computer engineering and 
chemical engineering research­
ers occupy the top three floors 
— the completed areas — of 
the building.
Material science researchers 
plan to move in after phase II, 
bringing the total number of 
professors, graduate students, 
and researchers in the build­
ing to 150.
“By bringing these faculty to­
gether in one place, it helps to 
encourage interdisciplinary re­
search in electronics and other 
advanced materials,” said 
Donald Shields, assistant direc­
tor of development for CIT.
No longer hampered by inad­
equate laboratories, scientists 
and students from different 
fields will find collaboration to 
be easier and more productive, 
he said.
Phase I included the construc­
tion of special laboratories, in­
cluding a state-of-the-art radio- 
Please see ROBERTS, page 5
Michelle Ungerer/Tartan Junior Staff 
The completion of the first floor of Roberts Hall — “phase II” of 
construction — will begin either late this year or early in 1998.

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 22 September 1997
D DD
Media mogul donates to 
United Nations charities
NEW YORK (AP) — Five months 
after chiding fellow billionaires Bill 
Gates and Warren Buffett for not do­
nating more money to charity, media 
mogul Ted Turner on Thursday an­
nounced he would give $1 billion over 
the next decade to a foundation to 
benefit United Nations charities.
“It’s going to go to the poorest people 
in the world, the people who need it the 
most,” said Turner, the vice chairman 
of Time Warner Inc. Among the causes 
to benefit: refugee aid, efforts to clean 
up land mines, and disease prevention.
Turner made the announcement at 
a Manhattan hotel, where he was re­
ceiving the Global Leadership Award 
from the United Nations 
Association of the United 
States of America, a non­
profit organization that 
backs the United Nations.
The group praised Turner 
for improving interna­
tional relations through 
news coverage on his 
Cable News Network 
(CNN) and his advocacy 
on behalf of the environ­
ment and human rights.
Turner, 58, said he would 
give $100 million in stock 
to the foundation for each 
ofthe next 10 years. His net 
worth grew from $2.2 bil­
lion as of January 1 to $3.2 
billion, thanks to growth in 
his Time Warner stock, he 
said. “I’m only giving up 
nine months’ earnings. It’s 
not that big a deal,” Turner 
told Larry King during an 
appearance on CNN. Tm 
no more poorer than I was
the idea two nights ago in a New York 
hotel room, and settled on the amount 
“because a billion is a good round fig­
ure.” His decision brought tears to the 
eyes ofhi s wife of six years, Jane F onda, 
when he told her, Turner said. “She 
said, ‘I’m proud to be married to you.’
“I realized the U.N. never has enough 
money,” he said. The donation will not 
pay for administrative costs, he said.
Turner parlayed a single UHF station 
in Atlanta in 1970 into a global colossus 
that includes a smorgasbord of cable 
channels, movie studios, and profes­
sional sports teams, including baseball’s 
Atlanta Braves and the NBA’s Atlanta 
Hawks. He started his TBS satellite
courtesy of AFP
Ted Turner gives a thumbs up as he arrives for a gala 
nine months ~ago*"and the dinner event hosted bythe United Nations Association.
world is a lot better off.” superstation in 1976 and CNN in 1980.
He said he was about to be named to Turner’s criticism of Gates and 
Forbes magazine’s list of the top 25 Buffett came at the annual meeting of 
richest Americans — he was 46th last the Boys & Girls Club of America in 
year — “and I’m going to push myself April. “What good is wealth sitting in 
down the list.” the bank?” Turner said. “It’s a pretty
Turner said he plans to raise even
more money for his new foundation. 
“If you’re rich, you can expect a letter 
or a call from me,” he said.
On King’s show, Turner said he got
pathetic thing to do with your money.” 
There, Turner announced that two of 
his ventures — the Goodwill Games 
and TBS — were forming a partner­
ship with Boys & Girls Clubs.
orm sumit Fehatn 
imhn• ua Fmhrmrt
ALZADA, Mont. (AP) — An Air Force 
B-l bomber on a training mission crashed 
in a Montana prairie on Friday, killing 
all four crew members, the Air Force 
said. It was the sixth U.S. military crash 
in seven days. The rash of accidents 
prompted the Pentagon to order a halt to 
all military training flights on Monday 
of the coming week.
The B-l crash happened at about 2:25 
pm in the southeast comer of Montana, 
near the state line with Wyoming. The 
bomber was flying out of Ellsworth Air 
Force Base, about 100 miles to the south­
east, when it went down near the Powder 
River military training range. “It was 
just a big, black mushroom cloud,” Kaye 
Nelson said from the Valley Inn Bar & 
Cafe in Alzada. Witnesses said the plane 
left a trench up to a half-mile long.
Captain Gary Carruthers, a spokes­
man for the Air Force’s Air Combat Com­
mand at Langley Air Force Base in Hamp­
ton, Va., said all four crew members died.
“There’s nothing left but debris. It was 
destroyed,” said Dick Wesnick, editor of 
The Billings Gazette, who flew over the 
crash site four hours after the crash. 
“There was no evidence of a wing, a tail, 
a cockpit. There was no large, identifi­
able piece of an aircraft.”
The B-1B Lancer, the type flown by 
Ellsworth’s 28th Bomb Wing, is a long- 
range, heavy bomber that entered Air 
Force service in 1985. It can carry up to 
84 conventional 500-pound bombs, or an 
undisclosed number of nuclear weap­
ons, and fly faster than 900 mph. It costs 
more than $200 million.
Last Saturday, an Air Force C-141 
transport plane flying from Namibia ap­
parently collided with a German military 
plane off the coast of Africa. The next day, 
an Air Force F-117A stealth fighter fly­
ing at an air show near a Baltimore 
suburb crashed in a residential area after 
a piece of the plane broke. off. Also Sun­
day, a U.S. Navy FA-18 crashed in Oman 
in the Middle East.
On Monday, a Marine FA-18D Hornet 
fighter jet crashed in North Carolina’s 
Pamlico Sound during a practice bomb­
ing run, and two Air National Guard F- 
16s collided Tuesday off the coast of New 
Jersey.
In a statement issued Friday, the Air 
Force said the purpose of the one-day 
suspension of training flights is “to give
Last total eclipse of the second millenium.
courtesy of Reuters
A triple exposure picture shows the progress of a waning total eclipse over the 
Saint Luca church on the southern hill of Bologna, Italy, September 16.
those who fly and maintain U.S. military 
aircraft time to focus on that goal — 
making flying as safe as we possibly can.”
Before Friday’s crash in Montana, 
the U.S. military actually had lost fewer 
aircraft in accidents this year — 54, 
with less than two weeks remaining in 
the government’s fiscal year — than in 
any recent year. It lost 67 last year, 69 
in 1995, and 86 in 1994, according to 
Pentagon statistics.
pg6g mtExntn lu 
taCumnt hiiumC
OSLO, Norway (AP) — Over U.S. 
objections, more than 100 nations to­
day endorsed a draft treaty that pro­
poses an immediate and total ban on 
anti-personnel mines. The actual sign­
ing is not expected until December.
Shortly after the endorsement, the 
United States announced it would not 
sign the accord. The United States 
wanted exemptions allowing mines to 
be used on the Korean peninsula for at 
least nine years. Washington also wanted 
a provision allowing it to withdraw from 
the treaty if the United States comes 
under attack. President Clinton has said 
the United States wants to be sure 37,000 
U.S. soldiers in South Korea can be 
protected from possible attack by the 
North. Washington risks international 
reproach if it does not sign the treaty.
The move to ban land mines has pro­
ceeded with unusual speed, with pressure 
to conclude a treaty growing after the 
death of Britain’s Princess Diana, who 
had campaigned for a ban. More than 100 
nations are involved in the Oslo talks, 
which began in Canada 11 months ago.
An estimated 100 million to 300 mil­
lion anti-personnel mines are deployed 
in about 60 countries worldwide, often 
killing or crippling people decades after 
a conflict has ended.
Munlua uEErirhen 
rUFtCt Fmultnl
BOSTON (AP) — Nearly 60,000 people 
gathered at Boston Common Saturday for 
a rally advocating the legalization of mari­
juana. Police made about200 drug arrests.
Sponsored by the National Organiza­
tion for the Reform of Marijuana Laws, 
the rally drew mostly young people, many 
of whom smoked marijuana furtively.
Police took suspects, mostly teenagers, 
into temporary custody. They searched 
knapsacks and frisked some attendees.
Officials attempted to restrict the num­
ber of vendors at the rally in what orga­
nizers claimed was an attempt to squelch 
the event. But a Superior Court judge 
ruled Wednesday against the city.
Boston officials said they weren’t trying 
to prevent the protest, but attempting to 
head off possible damage to the Common.
Muslim terrorists bomb German tourist bus, killing 10 in Cairo
CAIRO, Egypt (AP)—Gunmen 
dressed in business suits opened 
ire on a tour bus Thursday and 
set it ablaze with firebombs out­
side Cairo’s popular Egyptian 
Museum, killing at least six Ger­
man tourists and four others.
Frightened tourists and by­
standers streamed away from the 
museum, home to one of the great­
est collections of Pharaonic an­
tiquities, including the golden 
treasures found in the tomb of 
Tutankhamen.
“I saw one man hurl a Molotov 
cocktail at the left side of the bus, 
while another opened fire,” said
Mohammed Fadl, an office 
worker. “There was a lot of com­
motion, and people began run­
ning everywhere. There was black 
smoke coming out of the bus, and 
then it burst into flames,” he said.
Four foreign tourists and 15 
Egyptians also were wounded, po­
lice said. There were no immediate 
reports of any American injuries.
At least 31 tourists were al­
ready inside the white bus when 
the first bomb exploded about 
12:15 pm, a usually busy time for 
the museum.
Police said seven of the victims 
were Germans, but the German
Foreign Ministry said only six 
Germans were killed. Authorities 
were uncertain if the other vic­
tims were tourists or included the 
Egyptian driver and tour guide.
The attack — which happened 
in one of the most popular tourist 
sites in Cairo — was the worst 
against foreigners since April 
1996, when gunmen opened fire 
on Greek and Australian tourists 
who were about to board a bus 
outside Cairo’s Europa Hotel, 
near the pyramids. Eighteen 
Greeks were killed in that at­
tack, and 16 Greeks and an Egyp­
tian were wounded.
An Interior Ministry statement 
today said police had detained 
three “terrorists,” the word usu­
ally used for Muslim militants 
who have waged a five-year cam­
paign of violence against 
Mubarak’s government.
The wounded were rushed to 
Qasr El-Aini Hospital, where 
eight Germans remained hospi­
talized in stable condition, hos­
pital director Abdel-Muati 
Hussein said. There were no de­
tails on the other wounded.
More than 1,100 people have been 
killed during the Muslim militants’ 
five-year campaign of violence, in­
cluding tour­
ists, police of­
ficers and mi­
nority Coptic 
Christians.
Authori­
ties repeat­
edly have 
said that po­
lice have 
largely put 
down the re­
bellion by 
militants
wishing to courtesy of AFP
install Is- The streets of Cairo were in disarray after a tourist bus 
lamic law. was targeted for an attack in which 10 people died.
Four-Day Forecast
Calendr
.lnslendrPartly cloudy. 
Hi 63 Lo 44
Ciafendr
ofmndr
Showers.
Hi 63 Lo 44
Partly Cloudy. 
Hi 64 Lo 46
chmatLrt oeUhahi
From National Weather Service bulletins and other sources
50 YEARS AGO, October 28, 
1947 — Four to five thousand 
University of Pittsburgh stu­
dents invaded the CIT campus 
to celebrate their first Big Nine 
win in nearly 10 years. The dis­
order briefly upset the school rou­
tine on the Monday morning. 
There was relatively little dam­
age: only a few broken windows 
and light bulbs were reported. 
The chief casualty was a chair 
from Skibo that was found atop 
the Fine Arts flagpole.
25 YEARS AGO, October 3, 
1972 — CMU officials predicted 
that student QPAs would con­
tinue their upward swing. The 
average grades of CMU students 
had been rising for the previous 
10 years. At the time the average 
QPA was 2.79. The Dean of CIT- 
MIS at the time, Robert Sickman, 
claimed, “In four years, the cu­
mulative average for incoming 
freshmen could reach from 2.95 
to well above 3.0.” A lot of the 
change stems from the decision 
in 1968 to recenter the grading 
scale at the University.
10 YEARS AGO, September 22, 
1987 — Fire marshals from the 
City of Pittsburgh inspected the 
fraternity houses. Several frater­
nities were warned of violations, 
although no citations were issued. 
The hardest hit fraternity was 
SAE. Marshals warned SAE that 
if they lit any explosives inside the 
volcano they had constructed for 
their “Dante’s Infemo” party, the 
fraternity would be fined $1,000 
per brother. Other warnings given 
were for an overflowing dumpster 
at Pi Lambda Phi, wood outside of 
Phi Kappa Theta that needed to 
be cleaned up, combination of com­
bustibles at Delta Tau Delta, and
blocked egress in the hallways of 
Delta Upsilon.
FIVE YEARS AGO, Septem­
ber 21, 1992 — Carnegie Mellon 
Dining Services unveiled its new 
dining plan. The meal plan pack­
ages were completely revised. A 
major benefit of this was the re­
moval of the “use it or lose it” 
policy that the University had been 
using. Under the new plan, if stu­
dents did not use all of their meals 
by the end of the semester, they 
either were added onto the next 
semester or were credited to the 
student’s Dine Xpress. Another 
change was at the Morewood 
Court. Where before it held a caf­
eteria, in 1992 in its place stood 
Taco Bell and The Corner Oven, a 
pizza place. Of course, today the 
University again utilizes the “use 
it or lose it” system, to the dismay 
of meal plan holders at CMU.
ONE YEAR AGO, September 
23,1996 — Brenden Mielke, cit­
ing being “burned out by a stress­
ful spring semester as chair,” 
announced that he was resigning 
from the Student Senate position 
effective the next month. Mielke, 
whose tenure began in January 
of the same year, was unsure of 
whether he would continue to play 
any role in Senate duties. “I need 
to step down right now before I 
burn out and do a bad job,’’said 
Mielke. Senate had already nomi­
nated eight people to the posi­
tion, but none accepted the nomi­
nation. The most likely candi­
date at the time was Cathy 
Senderling, the Senate vice chair. 
Indeed, she did become Senate 
Chair and held the position for 
the duration ofthe year.
Compiled by 
RYAN D. SCHILLING

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 22 September 19973
Pittsburgh stands at cultural crossroadsCampus Xpress expands 
to off-campus vendors
PITTSBURGH, from page 1expansion of the convention center and completion of the Cultural District of theaters and galleries.
Counties in which voters approve the 
measure would receive money for their 
own economic development projects. But 
only those in which the measure passed 
would share the revenue.
Economists here predict that the tax 
would cost each working family member 
$35 to $45 a year and lead to $1 billion or 
more in new private investment through­
out the region, if all 10 counties approved 
the measure.
But that appears unlikely. Public senti­
ment is running strongly against the mea­
sure, even in Allegheny County, despite 
the fact that the Pirates, a beloved team 
with a rich history of success, is threaten­
ing to leave Pittsburgh by 2001 if a new 
baseball stadium is not built.
‘This is critical,” said Pittsburgh Mayor 
Tom Murphy. “This would put us in a 
position to compete with many other cit­
ies. Tangibly, it could lead to several bil­
lion dollars of investment commitments. 
Intangibly, it takes Pittsburgh to another 
level of how we think about ourselves.”
Larry Dunn, a Republican who is chair­
man of the Allegheny County Commis­
sion, has led the opposition to the mea­
sure, arguing that Allegheny’s sales tax 
of 7 percent, compared with the sur­
rounding counties’ 6 percent, is already 
helping to drive people out of the city.
But supporters of the initiative con­
tend that such a narrow view not only 
threatens the economic base of the en­
tire region, stanching job growth, but 
also reflects a “mill mentality” that lin­
gers from the days Big Steel, when pa­
ternalistic plant owners played major 
roles in solving the city’s problems.
Rick Stafford, executive director of the 
Allegheny Conference on Community De­
velopment, an organization of corporate 
executives that favors passage of the refer­
endum, put it more bluntly, saying, “There 
is no Plan B. Those who say there is one 
don’t know what they’re talking about.”
Mayor Murphy and other city leaders
disagree with that assessment, saying 
that alternative financing for the sports 
stadiums and other downtown construc­
tion could be found if the tax measure 
failed. But they say the failure of the 
referendum would be at least a psycho­
logical blow to the region.
“It would not be a total disaster, but it 
would slow down momentum,” said Tho­
mas H. O’Brien, chairman and chief ex­
ecutive of PNC Bank, the largest finan­
cial services company in the city. “We 
would still grow but at a slower rate.”
The downtown projects that would be 
financed by the new sales tax are viewed 
by supporters as important magnets to 
stem the loss of young people and attract 
new residents and businesses through­
out the region.
“The No. 1 problem we have,” Murphy 
said, “is building a sense of confidence in 
ourselves that we can do anything. In 
that sense, the referendum is a meta­
phor for whether we believe in ourselves 
and whether we can take Pittsburgh to 
another level.”
XPRESS, from page 1
Five or six Pittsburgh-based sys­
tems companies will be considered 
before CMU signs a contract. Binstock 
said he will make “benchmarking site 
visits” to other schools that have the 
system in place in the next few months.
“I’m excited — I’ve seen it work. 
This will boost CMU into the 21st 
century,” said Binstock. “Competi­
tion [with CMU vendors] is good. I’m 
a big support of sending students to 
Pittsburgh businesses. It boosts the 
local economy.”
The University will receive a per­
centage of off-campus profits made 
from CampusXpress purchases.
Replacing the card system will cost 
between $70,000 and $200,000, de­
pending how extensive the revamp­
ing of the system is. “We can do it for 
as low as $70,000, but we won’t be able
to expand very much,” said Binstock.
With an upgrade system, students 
will also be able to pay for laundry 
services and vending machine pur­
chases using CampusXpress starting 
next fall.
“We want to move to cashless sys­
tem,” said Binstock. “It’s a safety issue, 
a convenience issue and an issue of 
data-capture for product planning.” The 
new technology will be able to provide 
for more extensive and efficient inven­
tory management by electronically 
tracking what items people are buying 
and how often they are buying them.
Senate’s student survey found that 
73 percent of students would increase 
the amount of money deposited into 
CampusXpress accounts by roughly 
$176 which translates into an average 
$805,000 increase in CampusXpress 
deposits per semester.
Carnegie Mellon in Brief
cuaEtmtait 
•unln hxl•um
Daniel Quinn, author of the 
philosophical bestseller 
“Ishmael” will be the keynote 
speaker at Carnegie Mellon 
University’s 1997 Student 
Pugwash Conference.
Quinn’s lecture, “Technology 
and the Other War,” will take 
place on Friday, September 26, 
at 4:30 pm in the Mellon Insti­
tute Auditorium at 4400 Fifth 
Avenue. A reception for the au­
thor will follow.
Quinn’s books and his ideas of 
“a new type of thinking” have 
found their way into hundreds of 
classrooms. From middle schools 
to graduate schools, they have 
been used as texts or supplemen­
tal reading in courses including 
Anthropology, World History, 
Biology, Native American Stud­
ies, and — at Carnegie Mellon —
Engineering Ethics.
“Ishmael,” Quinn’s best-known 
work, won the Turner Tomorrow 
Fellowship in 1991 for “creative 
and positive solutions to global 
problems.” Quinn’s latest book, 
“My Ishmael,” is due in book­
stores this November, when he 
will tour selected cities in the 
United States and Canada.
cuanlmxilrua 
ihxntn Ctluxm
After site preparation, which 
included relocating water, steam, 
and service lines to Warner Hall 
and the removal of 18 feet from 
the entrance of the Student Cen­
ter, construction of the Purnell 
Center for the Arts, the new three- 
story home of the School of 
Drama, and its adjacent art gal­
lery started last week with the 
arrival of construction trailers on 
the Cut.
The second order of business 
was the erection of a fence encir­
cling the construction site, says 
Tom Murphy, senior project man­
ager for Facilities Management 
Services. The fence will cause 
several pedestrian detours. The 
walkway between Warner and 
Doherty halls will be closed as of 
Wednesday, Sept. 24, as will the 
diagonal walkway from the Uni­
versity Center’s south porch, by 
the tennis courts, to Warner Hall.
Pedestrian access from the Cut 
to the Student Center, the Cam­
pus Printing and Publications 
building, and West Campus, in­
cluding Hamburg Hall, the Plan­
etary Robotics Building, and the 
Field and Mobile Robotics Build­
ing will be restricted. Pedestri­
ans must detour between Warner 
and Cyert halls, enter the east 
door of the Student Center, and 
exit the building’s first-floor door 
to access the west end of campus. 
Pedestrians can also access the
Corrections/Clarifications...
In last week’s story “Students sleep their stress away,” Aaron Kozbelt, a research assistant for the 
project, was not mentioned, and John Richard Hayes was incorrectly called Edward Hayes. Also, the 
global work figure was 41 hours, not 39.
In the caption for the photograph that accompanied the story “Architect qualifies for international 
triathlon,” Kirk Framke was incorrectly identified as Eric Framke.
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of an error, please contact Editor-In-Chief 
Sharmila Venkatasubban at tartan@andrew.cmu.edu
GTE 
i s 
comi ng 
to 
campus 
on
Thursday,
September
25th.
6M
INFORMATION SESSION
Thursday, September 55, 1117 
fl:DD - 1D:DG pm 
Student Center, Room EDO
Desire. Intellect. Drive. These are the qualities that will determine your place in the 
21st century.
Technology. Infrastructure. Worldwide access. These are the things that will determine 
ours. With an existing reputation as one of the nation's largest and fastest growing telecom­
munications companies, GTE already has a head start on the next millennium. And after 
the addition of the newest information systems and powerful alliances - like our recent 
acquisition of Internet inventor BBN - we’ve got what it takes to command the future.
This power is harnessed and built into software and systems applications through our Data 
Services (GTEDS) division. Come to our Information Session to learn about the full-time 
career opportunities - as well as internships and co-ops - that will put you at the controls to 
make your career goals happen.
Our New Recruit Development programs focus on key areas within the company. Exposing 
you to the latest, most exciting applications of advanced technologies, like C++, Java, elec­
tronic commerce, and COBOL. And perfecting your technical skills. We are seeking the top 
minds in your class to participate in the following programs:
• Systems Architect New Recruit Development - an 18 month rotational training 
program that will focus your development on either data systems, application development 
or infrastructure computing. Graduate and/or Undergraduate degrees preferred: Computer 
Science, Electrical Engineering, Computer Engineering, MIS or Mathematics.
• C/UNIX/COBOL New Recruit Development - includes a 3 month training program that 
will result in placement in either the Development, Maintenance, Testing or Customer 
Contact areas of GTE. Graduate and/or Undergraduate degrees preferred: Computer 
Science, Computer Engineering, MIS, CIS or Mathematics.
• Information Technology Services New Recruit Development - an 18 month rota­
tional training program emphasizing the LAN/WAN infrastructure specific to GTE. 
Graduate and/or Undergraduate degrees preferred: Computer Science, Electrical 
Engineering, Computer Engineering or MIS.
• Direct hire opportunities are also available.
If you are unable to stop by our Information Session, please forward your resume to: 
College Recruitment, GTE Data Services, P.O. Box 290152, MC: B1 -F, Temple Terrace, 
FL 33687.
We are an equal opportunity employer and support workforce diversity, M/F/D/V.
Bring copies of your resume.
Refreshments and pizza will be served.
west end from Forbes Avenue, 
across from the Morewood Gar­
dens parking lot. Detour signs 
will be posted.
Purnell Center construction 
will also affect parking. The 
Warner Hall parking lot — with 
the exception of four spaces for 
people with disabilities between 
Warner and Cyert halls — and 
the east end of the Upper Bureau 
of Mines parking lot nearest the 
Cut will be closed.
cIp PmhUh 
uFtan nthnua
Carnegie Mellon Drama pre­
sents its first production of the 
season, “The Philadelphia 
Story,” October 3-10 at the 
Kresge Theatre in the CFA 
building.
“The Philadelphia Story” is a 
hilarious and captivating roman­
tic comedy. Phillip Barry’s bril­
liant play tells the story of rich
spoiled socialite Tracy Lord, a 
woman of high ideals and low 
tolerance for human frailties, 
particularly in a husband. She 
has just divorced C.K. Dexter 
Haven and is about to wed an­
other: George Kittridege.
Hoping to prevent the mar­
riage, ex-husband Haven returns 
for the wedding, bringing along 
magazine journalist “Mike” 
Macaulay Conner and photogra­
pher Elizabeth Imbrie.
The show will be directed by 
Dexter Fidler, a graduate direct­
ing student in the School of 
Drama.
“Phillip Barry is a master 
craftsman, blending light and 
dark into an extremely clever 
play with a surprising amount of 
depth,” said Fidler.
“This play finds Barry at his 
peak, with wonderful charac­
ters in hilarious and horrifying 
situations.”
The cast for this production 
consists of students from CMU’s 
Drama School.
PmhUh •unln 
FtmEumUhaitn
Michael Tucker, a 1966 CMU 
graduate, and his wife, Jill 
Eikenberry, will present two ben- 
efit performances of A.R. 
Gurney’s “Love Letters” for Car­
negie Mellon’s Purnell Center for 
the Arts and the School of Drama, 
October 3 and 4 in McConomy 
Auditorium in the University 
Center on campus. Performances 
will begin at 8 pm.
Tucker and Eikenberry are two 
celebrated actors from the hit tele­
vision series “L.A. Law.” Tucker 
earned four Emmy nominations 
for his role as Stuart Markowitz, 
and Eikenberry earned four 
Emmy nominations for her por­
trayal of Ann Kelsey. Both have 
appeared in many feature films 
and theater productions.
Compiled by 
RYAN SCHILLING
visit our website at www.gte.com
i> K i N <: i I» i. i- s / s o V s n K i: r i K k m k x t i n v i si i x c;
Average annual compound rate» or total return (periodi ending 6/30/97)°
YOU’RE LOOKING AT TWO COMPLETELY 
OPPOSITE, FUNDAMENTALLY DIFFERENT WATS TO 
INVEST IN STOCKS. WE RECOMMEND BOTH.
W
hether you want a fund that selects specific stocks, or one that covers the market, we’re on the same page. Our CREF Growth and CREF Equity Index Accounts use two distinct strategies for investing in the stock market, but both aim to provide what every smart investor looks for: long-term growth that outpaces inflation.00The CREF Growth Account searches for individual companies that we believe are poised for superior growth. In contrast, the Equity Index Account looks for morediversification, with a portfolio that seeks to mirror the
1^0
ü
1
rrvwf
1 vear J «ars Since inception 4/29/94
mm,x””
1 tear 1 «can Since inception 4/29/9«
U.S. stock market as a whole.Like our CREF Stock Account, the largest singly managed equity fund in America?00 and our Global Equities Account, which actively seeks opportunities worldwide, our accounts are managed by experienced investment professionals. They’re the same experts who have helped make TIAA-CREF the largest pension system in the world, with $190 billion in assets under management.To find out more about building your portfolio—and your future—with TIAA- CREF, just call 1 800 842-2776. And take your pick.<V»/£“°n experience of the
Visit us on the Internet at www.tiaa-cref.org
Ensuring the future 
for those who shape it."
-The total return* shown for CREF variable annuity account* represent pait performance. Total return» and the principal value ol investments in 
the accounts will fluctuate, and vieldi may vary. Upon redemption, your accumulation unit» may be worth more or leu than their original price.
Inveitment result* arc after ali invcttmcnt. administrative. and distribution expente* have been deducted. "These account* are available lor 
Retirement Annuities subject to the term* of your institution's plan. They are available for nil Supplemental Retirement Annuities. ’’’Based on 
assets under management. CREF certificates are distributed by TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Scrvice*. For more complete information, 
including charge* and expense*, call I 800 842-2733. ext. 5509. fora prospectus. Read the prospectus carefully before you inve*t or »end money.

---------------------------------------------------

The Business 
Opportunities 
Conference 1997
Adelphia
American Management Systems 
Andersen Consulting 
Anheuser-Busch Companies 
Arthur Andersen LLP
Banker’s Trust 
Banta Corporation 
Black & Decker 
Capital One
Crowe, Chizek and Company LLP 
Deloitte & Touche Consulting Group 
Electronic Data Systems (EDS)
Ernst & Young LLP 
Federated Investors 
First USA Bank 
Ford Motor Company 
IBM
Intel Corporation 
International Paper 
Johnson & Johnson 
J.P. Morgan & Co.
L.P. Thebault Company 
Management Science Associates, Inc. 
Mass Mutual/The Blue Chip Co.
The May Department Stores Company 
PNC Bank Corporation 
PPG Industries
The Procter & Gamble Company
Prudential
Symbol Technologies
TowersPerrin
Trilogy
USF&G
Thirty-three plus firms will be at the Business Opportunities 
Conference this Friday, September 26th. You’ll have the 
opportunity to “make the connection” with representatives from 
a diverse group of firms from across the globe. Professional 
Dress is required, and resumes are suggested.
Friday September 26th 
10am-4:30pm for Seniors 
11 am - 4:30 pm for everyone 
Weigand Gymnasium, University Center
M A KETHE CONN ECTION

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 22 September 19975
First floor of Roberts Hall
slated for construction
Student Senate Minutes
ROBERTS, from page 1
frequency-shielded room, where researchers 
work on data storage technology, and one of 
the most comprehensive libraries of metal­
lurgy research in the country.
Roberts Hall researcher Paul J. Sides, pro­
fessor of chemical engineering, has already 
patented some of his research on hard drive
ratory of digital microscopes, with special fa­
cilities for broadcasting results over the 
Internet. Also, research into new optical tech­
nologies for security and medical X-rays will 
be conducted on the first floor of the building.
The completion of the first floor will not 
interfere with the operations of the top three 
floors, nor is it expected to impede traffic on
“By bringing these faculty together in one place, it 
helps to encourage interdisciplinary research in 
electronics and other advanced materials. ”
— Donald Shields 
assistant director of development for CIT
data recording. Roberts Hall facilitates col­
laboration between researchers in different 
fields, he said.
Plans call for the first floor to have a labo-
the road behind Hamerschlag Hall or on Neville 
Street, as phase I did. However, the roof will 
need to undergo minor refurbishing in order to 
extend exhaust ventilation to the first floor.
Currently, Roberts Hall houses electrical and computer engineering and chemical engineering research. Once the first 
floor is completed, materials science researchers will also move into the building.
Meeting of 18 September 1997
STUDENT 
SENATE
Meeting was called to order at 
5:05 pm. Roll was taken at 5:07 
pm.
Senators Present: Ablak 
(SIA), Betz (SCS), Brown (HSS), 
Butler (CIT), Chang (MCS), Fay 
(MIS), Go (SIA), Golazeski (SAL), 
Goodrich (HSS), Gray (HSS), 
Gross (HSS), Guzy (HSS), 
Hanrahan (CFA), Howell (SAL), 
Jones (SAL), Jordan (SAL), 
Keleher (CIT), Largey (SAL), 
Lipshutz (CIT), Matthews (CIT), 
McCartin (CIT), Meier (CIT), 
Mingo (SIA), Naegeli (SAL), Ng 
(CIT), Phelps (SCS), Pinkston 
(CIT), Prattipati (SAL), Rubin 
(SCS), Rumpf (CIT), Stovall 
(MCS), Swehla (SIA), Szudarek 
(HSS), Toraason (MCS), Tseng 
(SAL), You (SIA).
Senators Absent: Kwalik 
(SIA), Langer (CFA), Merz (CFA), 
Muir (HSS), Perez (HNZ), Rubin 
(SCS), Walch (SAL).
Approval of the Minutes: 
Change (1) “Hanarahan” to 
“Hanrahan,” (2) include Perez 
(HNZ) in “Senators Absent,” (3) 
under Ex-Officio Reports, Activi­
ties Board change “project” to 
“projector,” (4) under Ex-Officio 
Reports, Division of Student Af­
fairs change “Flowers” to 
“Fowler,” (5) under Committee 
Reports, Campus Affairs change 
“bboard” to “email.” Accepted by 
acclamation.
Ex-Officio Reports:
Activities Board (Shubo 
Mookeijee): not present.
Graduate Student Assembly
(Jay Shankavaram): The Gradu­
ate Career Day “Thinking Ahead” 
organized for the graduate stu­
dents on September 13 was a 
terrific success. About 200 gradu­
ate students attended the pro­
gram. GSA will continue to work 
closely with administration to 
initiate more of these professional 
development programs for the 
graduate community. We are 
presently working on childcare 
facilities for graduate students 
with families. Also, we are work­
ing on the possibility of a shuttle 
to Squirrel Hill. Discussion on 
this issue will begin with Chief 
LaPaglia.
Greek Council: not present.
Division of Student Affairs 
(Barbara Prevost): The Peer Tu­
toring program includes assis­
tance in writing, biology, calcu­
lus, chemistry, and physics. It is 
held Sunday through Thursday 
from 8 to 11 pm (Sundays and 
Mondays in the Donner Confer­
ence Room; Tuesdays, Wednes­
days, and Thursdays in the 
Mudge Library). This program is 
free and no appointments are nec­
essary. All subjects are offered 
each night. Roxanne Zeisloft is 
putting together a 45-minute fo­
cus group about the WORD and 
Picbook. Any first-year student 
who would like to participate 
should email Roxanne Zeisloft 
(rbogo@andrew), as she is in the 
process of determining a date 
(probably towards the end of the 
month).
Student Dormitory Council 
(Brian Bluth): (1) SDC general 
body passed the 1997-98 budget 
proposal last night. People who 
want more detail can email 
sdc@andrew. (2) Meeting to dis­
cuss UC building and facility 
hours will be held tomorrow with 
AB, SDC, Dean Murphy, Bill
Elliott, and UC Administration. 
(3) Upcoming Events: Saturday’s 
movie is “Breakdown” at 8, 10 
pm, and midnight. Homecoming 
events are currently being 
planned. (4) Morewood Base­
ment: hopefully a chair will be 
appointed tomorrow.
Treasurer (Avinash Jain): 
none.
President (Bryon Krug): Matt 
and I are writing a resolution to 
re-raise the issue of Martin 
Luther King Jr. Day to the ad­
ministration. We’ll post our draft 
of the resolution to the bboard 
once itis complete. Matt and I are 
also putting the finishing touches 
on an email survey that Karen 
Pinkston helped to write, for pri­
ority registration for double ma­
jors. If the results are as we ex­
pect, we’ll present them to the 
administration before the new 
policy takes effect. Bluth and I 
are meeting tomorrow about the 
Morewood basement to select the 
chair of the planning committee 
so that we can get this going again. 
Good news to come later in the 
meeting regarding Campus 
Xpress. Any issues that you would 
like me to take to Dean Murphy 
or President Cohon, let me know.
Committee Reports:
Academic Affairs (Rob 
Rumpf):Bryon and I had our first 
monthly meeting with Barbara 
Lazarus this past week. Barbara 
is the associate provost for Aca­
demic Projects, and she seemed 
very intrigued by some of the 
ideas raised by Bryon, my com­
mittee, and myself. Indeed, she 
has provided us with her support 
in at least finding out more info 
regarding the issues we raised, 
such as classroom overcrowding, 
priority registration, receiving 
grades by phone, etc. It is inter­
esting to note that a problem AA
USE IT WISELY!
committee has recognized dur­
ing its first meeting (TAs being 
unable to change or give grades, 
which can make dealing with The 
HUB hazardous when the pro­
fessor is unavailable) has been 
corrected. Changes are in the pro­
cess of being made to allow TAs to 
give grades as well, which would 
clarify the confusion that has been 
known to develop between stu­
dents and The HUB regarding a 
grade. At any rate, those who 
have academic issues they want 
addressed can find my commit­
tee and I at academic- 
affairs@andrew or send me per­
sonal mail at rr4f@andrew. Ques­
tion raised: the 4:30-6:30 pm 
free time issue will be looked into.
Campus Affairs (Mike 
Szudarek): The poster policy is 
revised. We are still working on 
the Morewood Basement project 
and the hours of Entropy and the 
UC. We are also looking into the 
idea of murals on campus. There 
have been suggestions to put up 
murals on the outside wall of 
Wean Hall 7500 and/or the Navy 
building. Other suggestions in­
clude CMU banners on lightposts. 
I am working with SDC about 
improving freshmen meal plans. 
We are also working on adding 
trees along the mall.
Funding and Recognition 
(Eamon Keleher): There were six 
clubs at our meeting regarding 
recognition. We discussed, with 
Krug, the increase in activities 
fee. There will be a meeting next 
Thursday for feedback. Drew 
Stovall is my vice chair.
Human Resources (Van But­
ler): A Phi O will again be run­
ning the -elections. The election 
rules will be the first order of 
business. Our committee meet­
ing will be on Sunday at 1 pm.
Public Relations (Sarah
Gross): We are dealing with the 
issue of elections; discussing the 
date, election board and chalk­
ing. Individuals have been given 
responsibilities. The WRCT 
talkshow seriously needs people 
to participate. Please sign up for 
it. We are working on the possi­
bility of an election pamphlet.
Chair (Will Torasson): John 
Muir will be attending committee 
meetings to explain the Graduate 
Student Senate proposals.
Special Business: 
Nomination of Vice Chair: 
Chair has nominated John Muir 
for Vice Chair. Duties for Vice 
Chair include being an ex-officio 
member of all committee meet­
ings, run Senate meetings if Chair 
is absent, meet with administra­
tors, etc. Look at Bylaws for more 
detail. Accepted by hand vote.
WRCT Radio Show: Jen Gray 
and Stan Jones will be MC. We 
welcome any ideas. Some topics 
for shows include and introduc­
tion to Senate committees, and 
candidate’s ideas during elec­
tions. Shows will be held every 
other Tuesday 5-6 pm. If inter­
ested, you must come 10 to 15 
minutes early to get set up. You 
do not have to be a trained DJ. It 
is a fun experience. A tour of the 
station is possible if you come at 
about 4:15 pm on Tuesday.
New Business from Committee: 
F97-003 — Recognition of the 
Audio Engineering Society. Non­
funded recognition approved by 
acclamation.
F97-004 — Recognition of 
Shmooze. Non-funded recogni­
tion approved by voice vote.
F97-005 — Recognition of the 
National Society of Collegiate 
Scholars. Moved to send to Ex- 
com accepted by voice vote.
F97-006 — Recognition of 
Christians on Campus. Non­
funded recognition accepted by 
hand vote.
F97-007 — Recognition of the 
Carnegie Mellon Objectivists 
Club will be discussed at next 
meeting. Motion withdrawn.
Discussion of Election Candi­
date Pamphlets. The idea is to 
have a pamphlet during election 
time with all the candidate’s plat­
forms (about two to three sen­
tences) to make people aware. 
Issue of unethical practices when 
interests conflict was raised. 
New Business from the Floor: 
Senators at Large:
Dominic Falso nominated. Ap­
proved by acclamation.
Points of Discussion: 
Campus Xpress Report: Bryon 
presented the results of the Cam­
pus Xpress Expansion Commis­
sion and explained the 
commission’s methodology. This 
study was presented to Neal 
Binstock (assistant vice president 
ofBusiness Affairs), Patty Stacer 
(director of Campus Services), 
Annette Allison (former director 
of Hospitality Services), and Dean 
Murphy (of Student Affairs). As a 
result of the commission’s find­
ings, there is a 95 percent chance 
that Campus Xpress will be ex­
panded to off-campus locations 
by next Fall.
Room Preference: Rangos 3 is 
preferred over BH Adamson Wing 
for meetings.
Announcement:
Jamie Change, Senator MCS, 
office hours: official 9:15 tol0:15 
am on Tuesdays UC 318F, unof­
ficial 1:30 to 2:30 pm on Wednes­
days MI 3119.
Adjourn 6:53 pm.
Submitted by 
LORI LEE 
Edited by 
PAUL BOOTHE
Carnegie Mellon MIS, CS. CE, CAPP, and 
other computer related majors:
We are looking for a few highly motivated people with a 
strong background in computers who are seeking a earcer 
or internship in Information Systems.
If you are the kind of person who is interested in 
challenging rotational assignments, exposure to senior 
management, further educational development, and having 
input into the direction of your career, the ACCENT 
Program may be the right full time opportunity for you. 
We are also hiring Summer Interns for 1998.
Representatives from Travelers Property Casualty will be 
on campus for the Technical Opportunities Conference 
on September 25th in the Carnegie Mellon University Stu­
dent Center Gym from 10am-4pm. Please stop by our booth 
to learn more about these exciting opportunities in Infor­
mation Systems.
Travelers at Carnegie Mellon
• Technical Opportunities Conference: September 23, ¡997
TravelersProperty Casualty I
a Member ..f TrcivelersGroup «J
Entergy Corporation is seeking students who are looking for a mind altering experience.
DON'T MISS £HTiR6Y ON CAMPUS!
SEpT{H;BE'R' 24 & 2 5 • NOVEMBER h, 5 h H
For more information on Entergy Corporation and its mind blowing jobs, visit our web site:
www.careermosaic.com/cm/entergy
Entergy
H0/U/M/F/D/V.

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Carnegie Mellon University22 September 1997
Students should take 
part in crime prevention
HûUSB-
6HAZ Nr
r/fhaele
wìstnmmenr
TTîûfif)!
In the last few weeks, the num­
ber of thefts on campus has in­
creased considerably. In response 
to student concern, Campus Po­
lice has made a noticeable effort 
to educate students on crime pre­
vention by organizing community 
meetings and by steppingup other 
precautionary measures. While 
the effort is commendable, stu­
dents should take note that safety 
needs to be a proactive effort — 
they must work with Campus 
Police to prevent campus crimes 
by making themselves aware of 
proper safety procedures.
During the first week of school, 
Campus Police responded to sev­
eral complaints of thefts in Fairfax 
and Webster Hall apartments by 
organizing a crime prevention 
meeting for the residents of those 
specific buildings.
Similar meetings will take place 
in order to address safety issues 
voiced by students living in the 
North Oakland area — students 
should make use of this opportu­
nity to learn about current cam­
pus crimes, high-risk areas, com­
mon crimes, and what they can do 
to prevent future occurrences.
This kind of interaction has 
the power to increase awareness 
and eventually reduce campus 
crime rates.
As it stands, Resident Assis­
tants (RAs) are generally the 
only students who show up at 
safety meetings. While their at­
tendance is imperative (because 
of their roles as resources for 
students), it is important for all 
students to be well-versed in
campus safety procedures. A 
combination of increased pub­
licity and student interest is 
needed to make these meetings 
effective tools for crime preven­
tion.
Since many thefts are the result 
of carelessness, extra caution 
could make a substantial differ­
ence in the number of crimes on 
campus. Security breaks down 
due to neglect of simple measures 
such as locking doors or securing 
valuable items in safe places.
Students should also take ad­
vantage of Operation ID, a theft- 
prevention service offered by 
Campus Police. Upon request, 
police officers will engrave driv­
ers license numbers on student 
belongings. Campus Police keeps 
a record of all engraved items and 
provides students with stickers 
notifying potential thieves that 
the item is registered.
With more students (especially 
first-years) living in off-campus 
dormitories, there is a greater 
need for stringent building-entry 
policies. Desk attendants at the 
various dorms and apartments 
can help reduce crime by being 
alert and checking to ensure that 
only CMU affiliates are enter­
ing the buildings.
Most crimes that take place on 
campus are preventable through 
awareness of their occurrence and 
possible safety precautions. Cam­
pus Police has made efforts to 
offer venues for community mem­
bers to educate themselves — it is 
up to students to make the most 
of those opportunities.
James Mojonnler/Tartan Art Staff
Letters to the Editor
Letter to 
the Editor
Coffeehouse needs
Readers respond 
to cluster article
Editor:
Your September 8 
article, “CMU lacks 
cluster space,” raises 
valid concerns re­
garding public com­
puting facilities at 
Carnegie Mellon 
University. Unfortunately, it also con­
tains a few inaccuracies, starting with 
the first paragraph: Freshmen are 
not advised that personal computers 
are unnecessary; in fact, freshmen 
receive a special edition of Cursor 
that introduces them to computing 
resources and suggests they wait and 
assess their academic computing 
needs before buying.
Another inaccuracy comes a few 
paragraphs later, suggesting that 
residence hall clusters have outdated 
software. In fact, residence hall clus­
ters have the same software versions 
as the public clusters.
Some expansions and clarifications
on the accurate parts of your article:
Computing Services is actively search­
ing for better ways of serving cluster 
users; in fact, if you have a concrete idea, 
email it to clusters+@andrew. cmu.edu. 
Each semester, we’ll name one winning 
idea whose inventor will receive-a $10 
Barnes & Noble gift certificate.
One such idea would be a better sys­
tem for reservation notices. In addition 
to these sheets, we post reservations to 
official.cluster-reservations. Also, an ar­
ticle in the current edition of Cursor 
touches on the topic of cluster computer 
availability, with advice on finding a 
machine at specific days and times. If 
you have a better idea, please share it 
with us. Seriously.
When a class is in session in a cluster, 
it is up to the instructor whether other 
students will be permitted to use open 
machines. Keeping the cluster closed is 
important in some teaching situations, 
and not at all important in others. We 
trust that instructors keep the needs of 
other students in mind and balanced 
with their teaching needs when they 
have a cluster reserved.
Cluster consultants will ask cluster 
users playing games, reading mail, or
web-surfing to leave if they are keeping 
users with academic needs from a ma­
chine. Cluster consultants will not ask 
someone to give up a computer if they 
are not aware that there is a need.
Computing Services is genuinely in­
terested in providing the best university 
computing and communication facilities 
possible, as stated in our vision state­
ment. The Clusters group manages 
roughly 400 systems in nine locations, 
spread across three major platforms — 
this doesn’t count printers. We’re ac­
tively investigating alternatives to tra­
ditional clusters (with initiatives such 
as NetBar) that might help alleviate 
some of the crowding problems you al­
lude to in your editorial. And we’d like 
your help. Yes, I know, nobody’s going to 
retire on a $10 gift certificate, but it’s 
$10 moré than you have today. Send in 
your ideas!
Douglas Blair
Consulting Projects Coordinator 
Computing Services
Pomona Valero 
Cluster Services Manager 
Computer Services
proper management Gym renovations disappoint student
After its first full year of opera­
tion, Skibo Coffeehouse has 
proved itself to be inadequate in 
functioning as a social hub for 
students on campus. In that time 
it has lost the spirit of Scotland 
Yard — what was once a vibrant 
and energetic establishment 
laden with character is now a 
boring study hall where they serve 
overpriced fried food.
For those reasons, Hospitality 
Services should lease out the space 
to an outside company, just as 
they have with other dining fa­
cilities found in the University 
Center. New management would 
provide an opportunity for Skibo 
Coffeehouse to bring quality up to 
par with its original intentions — 
to provide a place for students to 
eat, relax, and socialize.
Right now, Pittsburgh is bus­
tling with young, hip, and fun 
entrepreneurs (Big Burrito, for 
example) which have the poten­
tial to make Skibo Coffeehouse 
appealing to students.
Since the on-campus coffee 
shop suffers from poor manage­
ment, an outside company could 
bring in the resources to make it 
a viable business.
Skibo Coffeehouse is currently 
student-run. While these students 
should be commended for their 
efforts, the wait staff service and 
quality of food could be improved 
ten-fold with the help of outside 
management. Companies provide 
professional training for their food
service employees, a higher qual­
ity of food, and in general, their 
prices are lower or at least com­
petitive with food prices at local 
restaurants of the same caliber. 
An outside company would at­
tempt to maintain customer sat­
isfaction because they have to in 
order to survive.
This does not necessarily mean 
that Skibo Coffeehouse would no 
longer employ students—in fact, 
student employees would receive 
proper training to be waiters and 
waitresses, which would probably 
increase their tip money.
Not only does Skibo Coffeehouse 
lack the character of Skibo’s Scot­
land Yard, it lacks atmosphere in 
general. Although most compa­
nies would most likely hire pro­
fessional designers to decorate the 
drab and empty space, the coffee 
shop should still embody “CMU” 
oriented decorations; possibly the 
age-old suggestion of student or­
ganization paraphernalia or wall 
hangings from Scotland Yard.
As it stands, Skibo Coffeehouse 
is not considered an equal dining 
option up to par with other ven­
dors houses in the University 
Center. The space should be more 
than a study hall.
With proper management, the 
restaurant might be able to par­
ticipate in the “free market” that 
regulates quality for other dining 
services and act as the venue for 
social interaction that it has al­
ways claimed to be.
Justin Cina
Do you remem­
ber “the good ol’ 
days” when you 
were about seven 
or eight years old: 
those special 
holiday mornings 
when you would
wake up before the birds, when it was still dark out, and 
race downstairs to a mountain of glimmering gifts?
Or on your birthday, the anticipation that tore your 
heart out as you had to wait, while eating the cake, before 
opening your presents?
And finally, after what seems to be years of waiting, you 
get your hands on the sugar-coated packages. You menac­
ingly claw through the shiny paper to what should be the 
latest Barbie or G.L Joe, but ends up being corduroy overalls 
or airplane underwear. What a letdown.
We’ve all experienced this intense anticipation before, 
when we expect something to be spectacular but results 
in a huge disappointment. This seems to be the general 
consensus of the small but devoted population that fre-
I made it a priority to make 
my way over to the gym to in­
spect the vast changes that 
were made. What I found was 
airplane underwear. ”
quents the old gym on Tech Street. This “regular” crowd 
attends the gym almost every day that they spend here on 
campus (approximately 720 days) for at least one hour a 
day.
This 60 minutes is spent in grueling repetitions of weight­
bearing activity, ranging from bench presses to the “skull 
crusher.”
The devoted participants systematically follow very spe­
cific routines designed with the functional intention of main­
taining their strength, health, and size.
With such devotion and inspiration, the general mindset 
seems to be that the equipment should reflect their dedica­
tion, especially since they pay oyer $20,000 a year to attend 
CMU.
So, after hearing last year that $12,000 in miscalculated 
funds was being diverted to their cause, they were instantly 
transformed into the eager children of their pasts, expecting
the inadequate and insufficient cave of a workout room to be 
mystically transformed to a working, functional, and all- 
around-pleasing gym.
As a contributing “regular” of this gym, I had my own 
expectations of what was to come, and occasionally let my 
mind drift to delusions of grandeur.
Considering that the gym in my high school was of 
higher quality, one cannot blame me, along with the rest 
of the old gym crowd, for dreaming.
Thus, after a summer of suspense, I made it a priority to 
make my way over to the gym to inspect the vast changes 
that were made. What I found was airplane underwear.
It cannot be denied that random equipment had been 
replaced — there were some new benches (Olympic press, 
incline, and adjustable), a cable cross-over machine, a 
Smith machine, a squat rack, a military bench, a new lat- 
pulldown machine, and some plates and barbells, but the 
quality was quite doubtful.
We would have been better off with some of the machines 
from the original gym, considering that the “new” equip­
ment is often breaking, rusting, or downright outdated 
and unusable. In addition, it seems the basics had been 
neglected, as if the person(s) in charge did not observe the 
prior state of the old gym and simply chose objects that 
were most readily replaceable.
By the basics, I mean a consistent and decent set of 
dumbbells that range from low weight, five pounds, to high 
weight, 130 pounds — also, the very substance of a weight 
room, the weights. Here too, a decent and consistent set 
would be appreciated.
The effort to renovate the gym has definitely been appre­
ciated. Really, it’s the thought that counts, and ultimately, 
something is better than nothing. It’s nice to think you’re 
being thought of, but the changes implemented seem to be 
from completely the wrong angle, as if a non-user of the 
gym were in charge.
From a logical standpoint, considering the amount of 
money invested in the project, the perception of the gym, 
along with the experience, should have changed for the 
better. Instead, the common impression is that it was 
simply a $12,000 make-over for red upholstery and newly- 
painted walls.
Give ’em an inch, they want a foot, right? After consid­
ering the effort and devotion of the old gym attendees, 
and the $23,000 price tag at CMU, it seems that they 
should have been given a lot more. Let their present be 
the G.I. Joe.
Justin Cina is a freshman design major. He welcomes 
any responsible replies to his column.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 22 September 19977
Public picks university reputation over merit
Ju^ru^aJi 
Rebecca Fribush
m
As Chelsea Clinton’s college acceptances rolled in, I 
felt something unpleasant I couldn’t put my finger on. It 
mounted as she took her time choosing among her 
schools, and last week, as she arrived at Stanford for her 
first year, it got quite bad indeed.
Perhaps it’s partly jealousy: I too could have had the 
nation’s most prestigious schools prostrating themselves 
at my feet if I had the most powerful person in the world 
for my father. But I don’t think that’s the whole story.
Overriding any lingering grudges I may still hold 
against certain Ivy League schools that sent me thin 
envelopes one April day is disgust at the assumption 
that the “most prestigious” schools are equivalent to the 
best schools. This presumption shapes the attitudes of 
both prospective students and the general public and 
encourages smugness in the students and faculty of 
these sought-after schools.
Watching one of the nation’s highest-profile teenagers 
choose from a slate of schools that read almost like U.S. 
News & World. Report’s top ten drove home the extent to 
which some overvalue these schools.
For some reason, I would have liked to see Chelsea go 
to some tiny state school in the middle of nowhere. This 
likely wouldn’t happen even if she were interested in 
agriculture or something else best studied at such a 
school.
Even if she wasn’t the bright little overachiever that 
she is, there’s a snowball’s chance in Stanford that the 
President’s daughter would attend anything but one of 
the most-respected schools in the nation.
Of course, we at Carnegie Mellon are hardly at the 
bottom of the educational barrel. And it’s not as if we 
don’t have our own share of elitism. But we don’t have it 
nearly as bad as the Ivy League and similar colleges.
These schools are the designer jeans of the academic 
world. Like Calvin Klein jeans, people will stop at 
nothing to get into them and don’t mind paying a ridicu­
lous amount for the privilege. But how different can one 
sewn-together piece of denim be from another? When 
you get down to it, they all cover your legs equally well.
We as a society value these designer schools way too 
much. Exaggerating the importance of this select tier of 
universities implies that because they’re regarded as 
the best, they’re somehow the best schools for everyone 
to reach their full potential.
I don’t know how many kids in my high school class 
applied to Harvard, Yale, and similar schools just to see 
whether they’d get in. They didn’t think about whether 
these schools were right for them and sometimes didn’t 
even visit them, but nevertheless planned to give serious 
consideration to them if they were accepted. Unlike my 
classmates, Chelsea did seem to give serious thought to 
which one of her many options would be best for her.
If you’re a president’s daughter, a campus where 
students have grown blasé about fame from rubbing 
elbows with so many nationally ranked athletes and 
former child stars would be understandably attractive. 
She gave up the chance to attend the school with the 
most towering reputation of all — Harvard — to go to 
Stanford. But far more common are the students who 
rush towards the glimmering light of their most presti­
gious option, without stopping to realize that this light 
may prevent them from seeing the real best place for 
them to spend four years.
This worship of certain schools simply because they’re 
unilaterally considered the best also distorts the pur­
pose of a college education. College is a four-year-long 
experience, not just the price you have to pay to get a 
degree.
Students who pick their colleges with an eye towards 
getting as many potential employers as possible to fall 
groveling at their feet are only doing themselves a 
disservice. If you really look hard at them, the lofty 
reputations of these schools are based on self-perpetua-
courtesy of Associated Press 
Chelsea Clinton opted to enroll at Stanford University.
tion as much as anything else.
Most of these schools were among the first in the 
country, or at the very least, among the first on their 
coast. Since they had a head start in admissions, they 
had a head start in churning out famous alumni, who 
brought glory to their alma mater, and prosperous 
alumni, who could afford to send their kids there. So 
people revere these schools because lots of people they’ve 
heard of attended them.
Many students apply to these schools because they’ve 
heard that they’re good. Which means these schools get 
to reject whole bunches of students. Which makes them 
selective. Which confirms that they’re good schools. And 
on and on and on.
Becca Fribush is a sophomore social history major and 
the Tartan’s assistant Forum editor. She welcomes all 
responsible replies to her column.
All freshmen should 
be placed in dorms
It is quite unfortu- 
nate that the 
Uni versirty Housing 
office keeps placing 
more and more first- 
year students in 
Editor's Notebook apartments each 
SBHHHHHHHIHHHHHH9HHHHS9 year. I remember my 
first year experience, staying up all night with a hall full of faces 
I hardly knew, slowly getting over my awkwardness. The RA 
helped us meet. We set up study groups and cut out holiday hall 
decorations. We complained about Highlander. I came into 
Morewood’s fourth floor as an unsure freshman and left with a 
support system and the memories of living in a room with 
dimensions smaller than my former closet.
I admit that now that I (finally) got an apartment, I would not 
give up the luxury of a kitchen or the privacy of separated rooms 
for another year in the dorms. However, as a freshman, dorm life 
was what I needed. Had I been placed in an apartment, I would 
have missed out on the experiences of random bonding moments 
and getting to know dozens of other first-year students in 
different departments with different interests; people who I 
otherwise might have never met. In an apartment, I would have 
had less interaction with my RA, who introduced us to recre­
ational events around Pittsburgh and served as a pillar when 
many of us doubted whether or not we belonged. Simply due to 
the setup of dormitory life, we were forced to interact, to meet, 
and to get to know each other — something crucial to freshman 
who come to CMU not knowing another soul.
And yet, each year, more incoming students are stripped of this 
experience, while upperclassmen continue to live in the rooms. 
Housing should make an effort to allocate sufficient space to 
guarantee every freshman a room in a dorm, and thus, a chance 
to get the real “first-year” experience. Before Room Draw begins, 
more rooms should be closed off to freshmen. In fact, there should 
be more all-freshmen dorms such as Morewood’s E tower and 
Hamerschlag House. The rest of campus can find living arrange­
ments in the other halls, apartments, or off-campus.
Jennifer Garcia de Osuna is the Tartan Forum editor. She 
welcomes any responsible replies to her column.
Communism opposes human nature
James Stepanek
I recently had an experience 
which revealed how deep some of 
the wrong standards pervade 
myself. A friend of mine got a job, 
and a very lucrative job it was. In 
fact, he’ll be making more money 
with that job and a BS than I will 
with a PhD. I felt miffed, but you 
know I really had no justification 
for my feeling.
I was struck by a pang of jeal­
ousy. Jealousy is, in fact, one of 
the worst of human failings.
The problem is that the values 
which are now indelible in our 
culture have us automatically re­
spond with jealousy to many situ­
ations. Our culture has it so in­
grained into our laws (progres­
sive taxation) and our media (ever 
notice the number of articles on 
“excessively high corporate sala­
ries”?) that we almost automati­
cally respond with jealousy.
What do I mean? Well, a while 
back, I was having a few beers 
with some friends.
These friends are conservative 
in political alignment. One of 
them lamented the fact that 
Arnold Schwarzenegger makes 
so many million dollars for a 
given movie. He felt that while 
Arnie should make more money 
to cover his greater needs as a 
celebrity, the amounts in ques­
tion were excessive.
I did manage to point out the 
fallacies of his argument. I 
pointed out where his argument 
was going, which was enough to
make him rethink once he saw 
the destination. You see, what he 
was really saying was that Arnie 
should produce great movies, but 
only be paid enough to cover what 
he needs. This is basically from 
each according to their ability, to 
each according to their needs. 
This is the central premise of 
Communism. Once he understood 
that this is where he was going, 
he felt a little embarrassment, 
and dropped that line of analysis 
from his thinking.
Now, I do understand that there 
are people out there who do actu­
ally think Communism is a vi­
able and valid political and eco­
nomic theory. However, these 
people are either in small coun­
tries that are rapidly fading and 
going broke, or in ivory tower 
cloisters (CMU English anyone?). 
History has pretty well demon­
strated that the concept of re­
warding people for needs instead 
of productivity is fundamentally 
at odds with human nature. If 
you do this, all you end up with is 
more needs and less production. 
This, and a good bit of external 
pressure, is what brought down 
the Eastern Bloc.
People are, by their very na­
ture, interested in their own gain 
and success. Although there are 
those out there who do put others 
first, like the late Mother Teresa, 
they are not the norm, and a 
society cannot be effectively based 
on the assumption that everyone 
is a saint. This is the real reason 
that Communism is a failure.
It makes a number of false 
assumptions about human na­
ture, and therefore is only a
utopian scheme. Granted, the 
nature of people to act in their 
own interests could be seen as 
what makes them jealous, but I 
do not concur with this.
At the very least, one should 
realize that the jealousy, espe­
cially in its institutionalized 
forms such as progressive taxa­
tion, doesn’t help even those 
whose envy it assuages. It just 
makes people play games to avoid 
the penalty, or simply cut their 
productivity, which benefits no 
one. Michael Jordan is paid a 
truly amazing amount of money 
by the Bulls. What if he were 
suddenly, through a government 
fiat spurred by the jealous, lim­
ited to a $100,000 peryear salary 
and quit? What would be gained? 
People who enjoy watching Jor­
dan perform his amazing feats on 
the basketball court would be de­
prived of their pleasure, yet the 
jealous would not earn one more 
red cent themselves.
To get back to my felt pangs of 
jealousy, I did get over it. I simply 
came to h rational conclusion that 
I’m not in the field which has the 
highest demand for services, and 
as such it is not so lucrative (hint 
to first-year students, computers 
are lucrative).
I actually had to scold myself 
over the envy since it was no 
more rational than an art major 
complaining that an engineering 
job makes more money than their 
precious, artistic endeavors.
James Stepanek is a PhD can­
didate in materials science engi­
neering. He welcomes any respon­
sible replies to his column.
Everyone has something to Carl Morales 
gripe about, right? Well, we Senior 
asked students: What’s your Chemistry 
favorite gripe? In other words:
What is the one thing on “This school’s attitude toward
campus that needs the most the Greek system.” 
improvement?
Compiled by Jenny Garcia de Osuna and 
Lisette Miller-Dixori.
Anita Rios
Junior
ECE
Natalie Bennion
Sophomore
ChemE
“The library hours. On the Rita Bosch 
weekends, they open too late and Sophomore 
close too early.” jm
“The men!”
Tim Machuga 
Sophomore 
Computer Science
“This place needs more clubs 
and restaurants and little 
places to hang out at.”
THE TARTAN
Cameglo Mellon’s Student Newspaper 
Since 1906
Editor-in-chief.........................Sharmila
Venkatasubban
Acting Managing Editor.. Ena Khan 
Business Manager......Amlt Sheth
Acting News Editor.... Paul Boothe
Forum Editor..............................Jennifer
Garcia de Osuna
Sports Editor.................Chris Cannon
Features Editor...Becky A. Cowser
Diversions Editor..........Tracy Odell
Calendar Editor......Kevin AuYoung
Dossier Design Co-Editors ... Klera 
Westphal, Matt Tragresser
Art Editor..........................Julee White
Photo Editor.................Anthony Chao
Production Manager..Kevln Babbitt 
Advertising Manager. Stephen Hsu 
Systems Manager.... Craig Soules
Copy Manager..........Victor Ortega
Asst. News Editor.. Ryan Schilling 
Asst. Forum Editor ..Rebecca Fribush
Asst. Features Editor......Anne Ray
Asst. Diversions Editor............Ryan
Donovan
Asst. Art Editor............Mark Adato
Asst. Production Mgr..........William
Holtz
Darkroom Mgr..........................Llsette
Miller-Dixon 
Personnel Manager... Paul Boothe
Contributing Editors 
Kenneth Kraemer, Jay Miolla, 
Jason Slegendorf
Senior Staff 
Gil Alterovitz, Jessica Strelitz, 
Susan Watson
Staffwriters 
Max Chittister, Matt Cuccaro, Dave 
Elman, Sheila Flanagan, Rebecca 
Fribush, Charles Fryman, Rhonda 
Gillespie, Elizabeth Irvine, 
Carrie Jones-McGuIre, Wladlmlr 
Labelkovsky, Alex Lewin, Greg 
Marcks, Maureen McGranaghan, 
Trevor Meyerowitz, Nia Rodgers, Jaya 
Saxena, Scott Shell, Reena Singhal, 
Nathan Stelnweld, James Stepanek, 
Bradley Zimmerman
Art
Nell Babra, Tom Birdsey, James 
Mojonnler, Tony Yu
Comics
Akira Hasegawa, Hiroml 
Hasegaawa, James Mojonnler, 
Dave Wingrove, Mike Yeh
Photo 
Brian Smith
Darkroom 
Ava Bai, Eva Bai, Amy Crisostomo, 
Elias Fallon, Maria Gimenez, Samuel 
Llstopad, Paul Moore, Diana Ruth­
erford
Production 
Marla Manautou, Tammy Manski, 
Diana Rutherford
Copy
David Elman, Elayne Foster, Dianne 
Gigler, Heather Keith, Helena 
McGahagan, Matthew McHenry, 
Andrew Thompson, Joanne Wei
Business 
Kevin Fine, Michael Y Kan, Toshi 
Takano, Na Y Lee, Norman Mok
Junior Staff 
Daniel Arp, Douglas Beeferman, 
Steve Bldwa, Luke Brindle, Brendan 
Bosworth, David Bazelon, James 
Camey, Rengie Chan, Susie Crlbbs, 
Ian Downey, Blake Engel, Andrew 
Francis, Cormac Eubanks, Filipe 
Fortes, Derek Greentree, Katy 
Hames, Harold Hunt, Ryan Kellogg, 
Emily Landes, John Lee, Seth Mandel, 
Anand Marathe, Alex Markle, Greg 
Nofi, Art Oberoi, Andrea Okerholm, 
Ping Pan, Paulette Poulle, Michael 
Pudup, Rob Punkunus, Stacey Reed, 
Palak Shah, Rimas Svarcas, Jeff 
Thibert, Joshua Walstrom, Daniel Wu, 
Seldon Yuan
The Tartan is the student newspaper...........................i.\t‘. . pu students during the fall and sprinj
of Carnegie Mellon University, weekly newspaper published by
semesters, at no cost to members of the University community. It is printed by Western Pennsylvania Printing, Inc. Subscriptions are available for the semester or academic year. The editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The Tartan editorial board. Columns and political cartoons are the opinions of individual creators. The Tartan reserves the right to reject or condense any column or political cartoon. Letters to the Editor are opinions of authors who are usually, but not necessarily, members of the University community. A letter intended for publication must be signed and include the writer's address and phone number for verification. Names may be withheld upon request. The Tartan requests that letters be no longer than 500 words. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject any letter. Copyright© 1997 by The Tartan. The Tartan editorial board reserves theright to withhold from publication any " ' unfit fo “ity iPhone: 412/268:2111
opy it deems unfit ror publication. Office: University Center Room 314
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/ Carnegie Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890 Email: tartan@andrew.cmu.edu Funded in part by your Activities Fee. All rights reserved. Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107. The Tartan is a member of the Associated Press.

---------------------------------------------------

687-9555Visit our booth at CMU's Technical Opportunities Conference on Sept. 25th 
or email your resume to: devres@connectinc.com 
or contact Connect’s Human Resource Deoartment at (650) 254-4000
C H ü S E AN EFFECT
Create the world's top proven solutions. Work with leading-edge ideas. If you have the drive to innovate technology as we know it. join us at the core of creativity at The MITRE Corporation.
As the country's foremost development center in information and communications, we offer both the resources and objectivity that critical research demands. Projects in which we're involved include, but are not limited to:
Communication Systems 
Computer Systems 
Network Design Engineering
System Software 
Systems Architecture 
Software Technology & Engineering
MITRE looks for exceptional individuals to combine their creative expertise with our technology-rich environment. We invite 
dedicated, qualified graduates to inquire about these and other positions in our McLean, VA, Eatontown, NJ and Bedford. MA locations.
Four- Dayy ec st Cngi Mnl Bfai Sd 
6eptember 25 & 26, 1997
MITRE is proud to be an equal opportunity/affirmative 
action employer and is committed to diversity in our 
workforce.MITRENNH.MITRE.ORG
f
ONESERVER
[gjjORPERSTREAIVr 
[jl| PURCHASESTREAM'
CONNECT, INC. is pushing the envelope with new, cutting-edge web 
technology. We have surpassed the limitations of conventional web 
technology by storing the content in an object-oriented database and then 
dynamically generating web pages.
We have openings for skilled applications development, systems software, and 
quality assurance engineers working on products that include:
IIOP/CORSfl ? 
RÎ)fëMÎ 00DEM$
Strong C or C++ coding skills are a must. Experience developing with UNIX, Visual 
Basic, Java, HTML, Perl, Windows 95 or NT, and familiarity with object-oriented 
design techniques would be a plus.
Located in Mountain View, Calif., CONNECT is a publicly-held company providing a high- 
energy work environment, flexible work hours, and a chance for serious engineers to develop 
leading-edge technology.
CONNECT
http://www.connectinc.com
WE ACCEPT 
CAMPUS 
EXPRESSPIZZA 
OUTLET
Oakland/Shadyside 
4740 Baum Boulevard
Open 7 Days a Week
Sunday-Thursday 11 am - 2am • Friday & Saturday 11 am - 3 am
EXTRA LARGE
ONE TOPPING
for only
Limited time offer, at participation locations only, no coupon necessary, not valid with any other offer.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 22 September 19979
IMPUTER Ë N ÔI MEÉ RlFTO* C OMP U TfcR SCTENC t* PHYSIC5 LECTRICAL ENGINEERING* MECHANICAL ENGINEERING • MATH
Motorola is
instrumental in the 
development of some 
of today's hottest 
software technology, 
as well as the 
advancement of some 
of the brightest minds 
in the industry.
On September 25th. 
you'll have the chance 
to meet with company 
representatives at the 
On-Campus Career 
Fair from 10:00 am - 
6:00pm.
We invite you to stop 
by and explore the 
opportunities that await 
you in the fields of 
Software Engineering 
and Development. 
Information Systems 
and Product Support. ¦
See You There!
www.mot.com/UR
TAKE TECHNOLOGY
Football coaches lack creative offenses
ADMINISTRATION
Mike Mastroianni X8-2214; 
¡Assistant Director: Mike Grzywinski x8- 
¡2214; Intramural President: Jeff 
' jesenskyx2-2830; Women's President: 
¡Katie Gallagher x2-3363.
IMPORTANT DATES
I Thursday, September 25—Water Polo 
¡begins in the UC Pool.
! Thursday, October 2 — IM Cross Coun­
try Meet 4:30 pm Flagstaff Hill. 
'Thursday, October 2 — Soccer,
¦ Foosball, Racquetball, Volleyball, and 
'Bowling rosters due.
! Sunday, October 5 — IM Golf Tourna­
ment.
Cil cmDevms casnmL
by Chris Cannon
Dan Reeves threw a touchdown 
pass in football’s most legendary 
game, the “Ice Bowl.” The field 
temperature of this Dallas vs. 
Green Bay game the last day of
1967 at Lambeau Field was at 
least -20 degrees Fahrenheit.
But the fun part wasn’t that 
Reeves, who now guides the NFC 
West cellar dweller Falcons, was 
able to put a spiral on the ball with 
his frozen fingers. It was that he 
was playing halfback, notQB, and 
that Tom Landry, the conservative 
fellow who prowled the Cowboy side­
line for 29 years, called the play.
Many contemporary coaches 
call the same set of predictable 
plays until they are replaced with 
another conservative coach who’s 
had more success at being boring
(see Reeves, Mike Ditka).
The sad news is that out with 
the creative plays went the imagi­
native formations. The “wish­
bone” is dead (finally), but the 
option isn’t necessarily evil. Any 
funny business with the ball has 
died as well. Ever see the “hook 
and ladder” executed? (One player 
runs a short route; catches the 
ball, and laterals it to another.)
Teams put their wide-outs in 
every legal permutation, but how 
’bout something new? Football 
requires at least seven players on 
the line of scrimmage. Players at
both ends are eligible to receive a 
pass. The other four players can 
be on or off the line.
Endless confusion can be created 
by putting eight players on the line 
at times. Add some motion, and the 
opponent’s linebackers or corners 
will likely end up covering ineli­
gible receivers (i.e. your blockers). 
Trouble blocking the backside on 
run plays? Try nine players on the 
line; just once to make your RBs 
harder to run down.
End of the half? Don’t run out the 
clock, try a modified kick return. 
Put in a returner 25 yards back,
and throw him the ball. There’s a 
bonus: Until he crosses the line of 
scrimmage, he can still pass!
Most college teams have start­
ers who were recruited to play 
QB, but moved on when the slot 
was taken. I say if you have two 
QBs, use them. A team with agile 
left-handed and right-handed 
QBs could drive defenses nuts.
So how’d the Ice Bowl end? Pre­
dictably: Bart Starr takes a QB 
sneak on fourth down, with 13 
seconds left. Packers win 21-17.
Chris Cannon is out of I in space.
SPORTS IN SEASON
TOUCH FOOTBALL
; Games are underway. The games will 
¡be played Monday through Thursday 
! evenings as well as Sunday afternoon.
! Teams are reminded games are called 
¡at the fields so plan on playing at 
'¡scheduled time. Teams are also re- 
1 minded thatgames on turf will be played 
j even if grass games are rained out. Any 
i games that are rained out will be made 
¡ up. Teams are asked to check with the 
j IM office after September 22 for make- 
! up dates.
CO-REC VOLLEYBALL
¡ Games will be played in the University 
! Center Monday through Thursday eve- 
1 nings with games beginning at 6:30 pm 
i and running through 10:30 pm. The 
' regular season ends Tuesday night and 
! the playoffs will begin on Monday, Sep­
tember 29.KTENNIS
! Matches will be played on the Univer­
sity Center courts Monday through 
Thursday evenings. The courts are 
reserved from 7 pm for matches. 
Schedules are out and can be picked 
up at the IM Office. If courts are 
unplayable due to rain, please notify 
the IM office immediately.
Please be prompt in using the courts 
^so that later matches may get started 
on time. The IM office reminds you 
-that only approved athletic shoes are 
permitted on the court. No sandals or!
.hard shoes aré allowed.
WATER POLO
The schedules are out and can be 
picked up on Tuesday in the IM office. 
The games will be played Monday and 
Thursday nights in the University Cen­
ter pool at 9 pm and 10 pm. Please 
follow all aquatic staff instructions.
!I f
CHESS
•The schedules are out and can be 
•picked up Tuesday in the IM office. 
Teams are reminded to play matches 
as scheduled and to report scores to 
the IM office.
UPCOMING SPORTS
IM CROSS COUNTRY MEET
The IM Cross Country meet will be held 
on Thursday, October 2. Runners will 
:meet on Flagstaff Hill by 4:30 pm. 
Teams of four runners and individual 
ichampions will be crowned.
IM GOLF TOURNAMENT
The 1997 IM Golf tournament will be 
held October 5 at Schenley Park Golf 
Course. Green fee is $10, and club 
rental is $6. BringyourCMU ID anytime 
; between 7 am and 4 pm. Report scores 
to the IM office by Friday, October 10. 
Teams of four and individual champs 
: will be named.
INTRAMURAL COACHES' POLL
Majors
; 1. SAE 
' 2. BETA 
; 3. Hit Squad
j Intermediate
' 1. Theta Xi Blue
12. SAE Shocker
13. GSIA High Court
: 4. GSIA Circle of Truth
Minors
11. Kappa Sig 
! 2. SAE Chad Roll 
¡3. Sig Tau Power Tools
14. (tie) Buttersville Bombers and Big 
! Nutz
I Women Only
1. Tartan Hoopers A
2. BBE
3. KKG Tommy’s Girls
The Intramural Department is looking 
for football officials. Any interested 
person is encouraged to contact Mike 
Mastroianni atx8-2214. Experience is 
not needed, just an interest in sports.
Submitted by 
MIKE GRZYWINSKI
© MOTOROLA.
Creating a diverse workforce through equal opportunity. M/F/D/V.
At Raytheon you'll take technology - and your career - to 
the highest possible level. You'll take it to the Nth. We'll be 
visiting your campus soon. Contact your career placement office 
now to schedule an interview, or check out our website at 
www.rayjobs.com.
When something is too extreme for words, it's to the Nth degree. 
And that's the level of technology you'll experience at Raytheon.
Raytheon has formed a new technological superpower - together, 
Raytheon Electronic Systems, Raytheon E-Systems and Raytheon 
Tl Systems are driving technology to the limit. And we're looking 
for engineers who want to push the envelope. Break new 
ground. Make their mark.
WE'LL BE ON YOUR CAMPUS ON OCTOBER 8, 1997. 
CONTACT YOUR CAREER PLACEMENT OFFICE TODAY TO SCHEDULE AN INTERVIEW.
Internet: www.rayjobs.com • E-mail: resume@rayjobs.com 
U.S. citizenship may be required. We are an equal opportunity employer. tlXPECT GREAT THINGS
Gh&l•tua
i

---------------------------------------------------

Get $50 cash back when you purchase select 56K' desktop modems with x2” 
technology July 1-October 4,1997. Get $20 cash back when you purchase 
select Megahertz® 33.6 Kbps PC Card Modems and Ethernet»Modems from 
3Com® at your campus bookstore or computer center July 1-October 31,1997. 
Keep track of these valuable offers and get extremely organized with a 
PalmPilot" Connected Organizer, and rage to the head of the class!
n=3.
USRoboticb* 56K Desktop ModemMegahertz Ethemet*Modrm 
Model XJEM3336PalmPilot" Connected Organizer
'Maximum download speeds arc limited co 53kbps. Actual speeds may vary. Uploads travel at speeds up to 28kbps. Requires x2<apable modem, x2-compatiblc analog phone line and x2<apable service provider. Sw \vww.usr.conVx2 for details.
3Com, U.S. Robotics, Megahertz arc registered trademarks and x2 ami PalmPiiot are trademarks of 3Com Corporation or its subsidiaries 01997.3Com Corporation.
Getting 
Connected!
That's right folks!
Cable TV
is here and rewing-up for 
the big connection!
Aa 6tFltUStm 30 O AiluStm 1T 
chSet HR Wree St lxmatC ua ra hee 
ua”ihUFxn par‘tmnrl& NuxnraLK
For more information, please visit the Telecom website at 
http://www.telecoiii.cc.cinu.edu/cabletv or contact them at 268.2300!
A SUITE FOR LESS 
THAN A HOTEL ROOM
m
Elegantly furnished one- or two-bedroom apartment suites include 
an equipped kitchen, fluffy linens, TV, VCR, cable movies, free 
local phone service, and reserved parking. 
Conveniently located at 5405 Fifth Avenue, Shadyside. Two 
blocks from Walnut Street’s 145 fashionable shops and 12 deli­
cious restaurants. One mile to CMO/Pitt/Hospitals.
DAILY, WEEKLY, MONTHLY RATES
5405 Fifth Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15232
(412) 441-4444
•llF2ZZ1rllnSxmL•gatlZ6•hC&nrCteaaZ
YOUR ASSIGNMENT:
TO EXPAND YOUR UNDERSTANDING OF ASIA.
Each year the Henry Luce Foundation selects a group of outstanding young Americans to 
live, learn and work in Asia for one year. For twenty-two years the Luce Scholars Program 
has aimed to create Asia-aware professionals who will assume leading roles in American 
society.
LUCE SCHOLARS PROGRAM
il
WHO IS ELEGEBLE?
• Current CMU seniors (expecting to graduate before September 1998), graduate students, 
alumni and junior faculty.
• U.S. citizen no older than twenty-nine years of age by September 1, 1998 who have had 
little exposure to Asian studies.
• Individuals who have a record of the highest academic achievement, outstanding leader­
ship qualities, and a clearly defined career interest. Personal characteristics that typify suc­
cessful candidates include creativity, maturity, self-confidence, initiative, enthusiasm, breadth 
of interest, and sensitivity.
ABOUT THE PROGRAM
The Luce Scholars Program offers grants to individuals in a wide range of professional fields 
for participation in internships and job placements in Asia. The program is aimed at recent 
college graduates who are not Asian specialists and would not otherwise have the opportu­
nity or incentive during the course of their careers to come to know Asia or their Asian 
•colleagues.
Specific placements have included the ateliers of several leading Japanese architects; En­
glish-language newspapers and magazines in Honk Kong, Singapore, and Bangkok; a fam­
ily planning center in Taiwan; the Olympic organizing committee in Seoul; a pediatric hos­
pital in Bangkok; a forestry project in Indonesia; and a number of local governmental agen­
cies through East and Southeast Asia.
APPLICATION INFORMATION
Applications and more detailed information about the Luce Scholars Program are available 
from Janet Peters in the H&SS Academic Advisory Center, BH 161 (email: jmpeters; phone: 
268-1080).
Preliminary application deadline; October 24, 1997. The selection committee 
will invite candidates for nomination to the Henry Luce Foundation by early 
December.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 22 September 199711
tit ; Squad shows new dedication
DEDICATION, from page 12 _ „• more difficult stunts.
¡¡with. Spirit of Skibo is great, too!” And The CMU cheerleaders are in the pro- 
¡¡you can forget about any airhead cheer- cess of preparing for Homecoming, 
¡leader stereotypes here. (This is 
|CMU, after all.) The team includes 
¡ three computer science majors and 
¡'an architecture student, and has 
¡designed its own Web page, 
j! Although the season is just un- 
¡derway, the cheerleading team is 
1 already planning ahead to next year.
1 “I am really impressed that they are 
¡so into advanced planning,” said 
¡Uovorski. Future goals include in­
creasing the size of the squad —
'particularly the male contingent,
'¡holding camp before classes start to 
• ¡get extra practice time, and possi­
bly attending competitions.
¡1 The team also hopes to achieve, “a 
[¡¡higher level of development,” said 
; ¡'Gongaware. “[We look forward to] doing
Jason Slegendorf/Tartan Contributing Editor 
The squad has added stunts to their normal cheers.
“I am really excited about homecoming, 
and to see what they will do,” coach Jovorski 
said. Currently there are plans for a bon­
fire with the football team, as well as the
possible addition of some alumni to the 
team for a cheer or two. As for the next 
home football game (October 4 against 
Dickenson), according to 
Gongaware, you can expect to see 
a basket toss — a stunt in which 
one of the cheerleaders is thrown 
high into the air and then caught 
by the other members of the team.
A great deal of hard work and 
dedication has gone into making 
this season a successful one, aided 
greatly by the enthusiasm of the 
team’s members and a drive to 
demonstrate their commitment 
to excellence. It has not always 
been easy for them, whether it’s 
dealing with dirty bathrooms at 
the Grove City stadium, or doing 32 
push-ups on the track in the hot after­
noon sun, but Gongaware said, “I’m glad 
to see it’s finally paying off.”
CMU versus 
Nazareth
Singles
Navroze Marshall 
Chanaka Oza 
Apu Kothari 
Dan Bilco 
Raemon Kentjana 
Aslsh Venugopal
Doubles
Marsha, Oza 8-1
Bilco, Kothari 8-3
Kentjana, Sullivan 8-2
gFlfduu Slptfne 
Women: 3-1, Men: 5-0
Clssme
SleauLe
4-6, 4-6Keri Mills6-2, 6-0
6-2, 6-7, 6-4Elisabeth Brown6-1, 6-1
3-6, 6-3, 6-2Jillian Watkins6-0, 6-0
6-3, 7-5Julie Balch6-2, 6-4
6-3, 6-4Whitney Brooks8-6
0-6, 4-6Jessica Chiu6-3, 6-2
Mills, Brown 8-0
Watkins, Brooks 8-1 
Balch, Chiu 8-0
Cross Country teams run toward top finishes
¡¡By JOSH DONNER
; ijSpedal To The Tartan 
j'& CHRIS CANNON 
iTartan Sports Editor
j! The Men’s and Women’s Cross Coun­
try teams both put up strong perfor- 
¡mances this past weekend, as the women 
¡cruised their way to first place and the 
I men finished a strong second place at the 
iIUP Invitational at Indiana University.
! Despite muddy conditions, the women 
¡'scored a decisive victory by placing five 
'runners in the top ten. Led by Maureen 
¡McGranaghan (2nd place, 19:01), Mar- 
¡garet Powers (4th), Becky Buchheit (5th) 
Melissa Lott (7th), and Andrea Byrnes 
¡(10th), the women scored an outstand­
ing 28 points. “It was rainy and sloppy 
¡out there, but I feel really good about the
performances,” said McGranaghan. “A 
lot of our runners improved their times 
substantially, and I’m especially excited 
that we had only 20 seconds between the 
first and fourth runners.”
The men, led by Sophomore Kenn 
Oldham (4th place, 27:38) and Junior 
Joshua Donner (6th), finished with 51 
points in a strong second place to Divi­
sion II rival Indiana in the eight-team 
field. The men also had a small gap 
separating their top runners, with only 
16 seconds separating Kelan Wieloch 
(12th), EricEgenolf(13th), Maliek Wash­
ington (16th), Bryan Meyer (18th), and 
Brian Ingram (19th).
Both teams see this meet as a stepping 
stone for even greater accomplishments 
later in the season. As of September 16, 
the men and women were ranked 23rd
and 14th in the nation respectively, and 
both have their sights set on the UAA 
Championships and NCAA Nationals, 
both in Boston at the end of November.
The men are especially encouraged by 
the performance of Junior Kristo 
Kriechbaum, who ran in his first meet 
since recovering from knee surgery over 
the summer. “We’ve got the nucleus of a 
very good team here,” said men’s coach 
Gary Meckley. “Guys like Wieloch and 
Egenolf are really doing their job. If we 
can just get our top guys healthy, and 
some key individuals can turn it up a 
notch as the season goes on, we can 
really pull it together.”
Some runners had a slightly lighter 
take on the meet. After being reminded 
about his acrobatic tumble last year on 
this same course, sophomore Eric Egenolf
noted, “This year I managed to stay on 
my feet for the entire race, and I dropped 
30 seconds over last year. I guess a little 
balance and coordination can be very 
helpful in a sport like cross country.” 
Last week, the women cruised their 
way to first place and the men finished 
in second place at the Cal Invitational.
The women placed four runners in the 
top eight, led by Powers (2nd place), 
McGranaghan (5th), Lott (7th), and 
Byrnes (8th). “Cal State is always a slow 
course because of all the very sharp 
turns,” said Powers, “but we always look 
at this meet as a starting point and a 
learning experience to build from.”
The men, led by Washington and 
Oldham, finished a strong second place 
to Mount Union College. “[Mount Union] 
has the national champion in the 10K,
and a squad that finished 14th at NCAA 
nationals last year without their top 
runner,” explained Meyer. “As a team, 
we did exactly what we wanted to do: We 
put up a strong performance, and got 
some of younger runners to step up and 
show what they could do. This meet was 
definitely something we can build on for 
the rest of the season.”
Washington and Oldham were aided 
by Ryle Goodrich, Egenolf, Weiloch, and 
Ingram, who all finished in a close pack, 
between 17th and 25th place.
The men and women both look for­
ward to a week off from competition in 
order to recover and prime for October’s 
opposition which includes a visit to Grove 
City College, Dickinson College (the site 
of the mid-east regional meet), and the 
Duquesne Invitational in Schenley Park.Big leaguers put too much focus on big money contracts
Cil TtL Htfslf
by Matt Cuccaro
Ü It’s no secret that today’s pro­
fessional athletes get paid more 
¡money than they deserve. We see 
¡it in basketball, where Michael 
¡“Let me see how many different
I ways I can make a million dollars” 
Jordan will make about $36 mil- 
Iilion next season (and that’s only 
¡for playing). We see it in football, 
¡.where many players have left the 
!¡Steelers’ 1995AFC Championship 
; ¡team in order to make more money 
¡¡than Pittsburgh could give them.
! But baseball players are the worst 
¡whenit comes to outrageous sala- 
' ries. Seventeen years ago, Nolan 
¡Ryan became the first player to 
¡ earn $1 million in a season; today’s 
¡salaries average about $1.3 mil- 
ilion annually.
i¡ Until some drastic changes oc- 
¡icur in the economics of sports, we 
¡¡will continue to see owners con­
cede to the endless demands of 
¡‘greedy athletes.
! ¡ You’vé got to give Hideki Irabu 
¡¡some credit: He fooled almost ev-
eryone into thinking he was good. 
First, George Steinbrenner 
traded the Padres $3 million and 
prospects for the rights to Irabu, 
dubbed “The Nolan Ryan of Ja­
pan.” Then, the Boss gave $12.8 
million to a guy who had never 
pitched in the majors. The ex­
periment has failed miserably —
Irabu has an ERA over 
7.00 and has bounced 
around from the rotation 
to the bullpen to the mi­
nors. As much as I like to 
see the Yankees screw up, I 
think there is something 
wrong with a sport when 
some mystery pitcher 
can command so much 
money and attention be­
fore he even throws a 
pitch.
For the past two 
decades, Bos­
ton Red Sox
has generally treated its best 
players less than kindly. Carlton 
Fisk, Dwight Evans, and Roger 
Clemens are just a few stars who 
left the club on unfriendly terms, 
and Mo Vaughn may be next. 
Vaughn, the team’s most impor­
tant player in terms of produc­
tion on the field and service to the 
community, has recently com­
plained that he has not 
been treated with 
the respect he 
thinks he deserves 
by the franchise. 
While that may well 
be the case, 
Vaughn also said 
he was “insulted” 
by the Red Sox of­
fering an $8.5 mil­
lion contract extension.
I think Mo deserves as 
much respect as anyone 
in Beantown, but I have to 
cringe when I hear that 
anyone is insulted 
when offered that 
much money. 
There are so 
many other 
baseball 
players 
with ri-
diculous salaries, I could never 
name them all. So I’ll just name a 
few: Albert Belle of the White 
Sox, at $10 million, hit his 29th 
homer last week. Tiger outfielder 
Bobby Higginson is having a com­
parable season, but is only mak­
ing $375,000. Higginson at one 
time played with Ruben Sierra, 
who has been traded or released 
by four different teams this year 
but is still earning $6.7 million. 
And Sierra was once traded for 
Cecil Fielder, who is hitting .255 
with 10 homers and desperately 
trying to make ends meet with 
his 1997 salary of over $9 million.
Trivia Question: Who was the
first baseball player to earn 
$100,000 in one season?
The St. Louis Cardinals re­
cently signed Mark McGwire to a 
contract extension worth $28.5 
million over three years. Though 
excessive, McGwire could have 
signed elsewhere for a greater 
amount had he chosen to become 
a free agent at the end of the year. 
But the incredible support given 
by the fans of St. Louis made
such an impression on our 
generation’s most powerful slug­
ger that McGwire had no choice 
but to stay. Last week, at a press 
conference announcing the con­
tract extension, McGwire stated 
that he will be donating $1 mil­
lion of his contract per year to 
establish a charitable foundation 
to benefit sexually and physically
ing lineup averages about 
$200,000 per player. I wish that 
more baseball executives would 
realize that it is possible to win 
by concentrating on player devel­
opment rather than continuing 
the trend toward salary inflation 
and shelling out millions of dol­
lars to the next Hideki Irabu. 
More than likely, though, some
“You’ve got to give Hideki Irabu some 
credit: He fooled almost everyone 
into thinking he was good.”
abused children. Also, in an ef­
fort to help the Cardinals re-sign 
other players, he chose to have 25 
percent of his earnings deferred 
until after he retires. Always one 
of my favorite players, Mark 
McGwire has shown us that there 
may be some hope for ballplayers 
after all.
This season, everyone has been 
impressed by the success of the 
Pirates “no-name” lineup. The 
entire team salary totals under 
$10 million, and their usual start­
outfielder on the Yomiyuri Gi­
ants just hit his 19th home run 
and is being called “The Babe 
Ruth of Japan.”
Trivia Answer: Where have 
you gone, Joe DiMaggio? Back in 
the day, the Yankee Clipper 
owned baseball’s richest contract 
at $100,000.
Coox says: “When you take that 
bus, you get there.” He has also 
been reported missing.
James Mojonnier/Tartan Art Staffclassified
Wo ULD YOU LIKE TO PLAY WITH BIGGER TOYS?
We have the technology, the resources, and the experience. For over 25years we've been providing hardware and software 
products, services and support to some of the biggest names in computing. At Amdahl, we are building on our successful 
Global Servers (Mainframe) that include up to 8 tightly coupled CPUs, 8 G-bytes of RAM, 256 I/O channels and mul­
tiple networks based on the latest CMOS technology. Our machines are used in airline ticketing, multiple bank ATMs, 
insurance databases, and by Fortune 200 companies.
We're look ing for top CS/CE/EE Engineers eager to join us in pushing the edge on large-scale system and software design. 
Amdahl is recruiting Fall 97 and Spring '98 Grads for the following positions:
BySHAR MASILV EANIKITUHIYV CVLIVAAN GDNYHYHy5A BySHAR MA0OL, 
2YVSY1A BySHAR MASILV GFFM o 2 mm,
Large System Simulator Design & Development 
Operating System Design & Development 
System Diagnostics Design & Development 
Console Network Interface Design 8t Development 
Microcode and Firmware Design & Development 
Why Amdahl?
Come sign a Non-Disclosure letter and find out!
Please visit us at the TECHNICAL OPPORTUNITIES CONFERENCE on SEPTEMBER 25, 1997. Visit with us 
and grab a snack at our INFORMATION SESSION on SEPTEMBER 30, 1997 and INTERVIEW with us on 
OCTOBER 1, 1997. If unable to attend, Fax your resume to: (408) 746-7114, Attn: Dept. #970903. Amdahl offers 
excellent compensation and benefits and is proud to be an equal opportunity employer through affirmative action.
Current openings are posted on the “Employment Opportunities” 
page accessible from our Web site at:
www.amdahl.com
amdahl
HOUSING
Several Efficiencies for rent. $390/ 
month includes all utilities, semi- 
furnished, new carpeting. 549 Neville 
St. Call Ted 963-9721.
JOBS
Earn $10-513/hour. WHEEL DELIVER 
seeks highly upbeat, motivated, friendly 
people to deliver food from the area's 
finest restaurants. Experienced 
preferred. Extensive knowledge of city's 
East End is essential. Must be available 
at least four nights a week.
Excellent extra income now. Envelope 
stuffing. $600-$800 every week. Free 
details: SASE to International Inc. 1375 
Coney Island Ave., Brooklyn, New York 
11230.
marketing opportunities, and more. All 
applicants must show proof of student 
status at a college or university. Interested 
students should mail 2 copies of resume 
to: PGD, 825 8th Ave., 20th FI., New 
York, NY 10019, Attn. Rebecca Carroll.
No phone calls please.
Innovative Retail. P-T, Weekend primarily, 
Paint-Your-Own Ceramics Studio, artistic, 
responsible, fun! 688-9892
Waiter/Waitresses — Part-time for private 
club in Oakland. $5.25 to $6.00 per 
hour. Free meal included. Call 621-2353 
between 10 pm and 2 pm. Monday 
through Friday.
JRAVEL
Spring Break '98. Sell trips, earn cash, & 
go free. Student Travel Services is now 
hiring campus reps. Lowest rates to 
Jamaica, Mexico St Florida. Call (800) 
648-4849.
Mise
Two tutors needed. One for Statistics, 
one for Microeconomics. 363-5662.
Polygram Group Distribution is looking A/fUSIC 
for College Reps in Pittsburgh. This is a 
paid position dealing with college radio, 
press, music retail, student activities,
Music goes MLM. Simply CD. Fee $89. 
CDs $10 Shipped. Call Suzen 856-7214.
Classified Rates
1-20 words..........$10.00/wk
21-50 words..........$12.00/wk
51-100 words.......$15.00/wk
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Boxi 7 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
• Classifieds must be paid in cash or 
check before first run date
• On-campus departments and 
organizations may pay by journal 
transfer
• Due by 5 pm the Thursday before 
publication
THETARTAN 
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania22 September 1997
Tartans 
suffer first loss
By CHRIS CANNON
Tartan Sports Editor
CMU’s football team suffered its first loss of 
the season, 26-7, to Grove City in Cleveland 
Saturday afternoon. This marked the first 
time since 1986 that CMU had lost to Grove 
City. The two teams tied in 1988.
The first half was characterized by short 
punts by the Tartans, but the team’s defense 
was strong. CMU’s defense entered the game 
14th in Division III in points allowed.
Quarterback Russ Clay scored the Tartans’ 
only touchdown at 6:11 in the first quarter. 
CMU only threatened once more by missing a 
field goal in the second quarter. Clay was 2-8 
passing in the first half and didn’t have much 
success in the second.
The score was tied 7-7 at halftime. Grove 
City’s kickoff to open the second half was 
fumbled, and the opponents recovered. In the 
second half, Grove City’s running game took 
command. R. J. Bowers from Grove City had 99 
yards rushing, and Doug Steiner had over 100.
Busted plays and penalties kept the Tartans 
out of scoring range in the second half, as the 
opponents rattled off 19 unanswered points.
A key, back-breaking play occurred on 3rd 
down with CMU down 13-7. With 22 yards to 
go for a first down, a Grove City running back 
ran loose for 18 yards. They would convert the 
4th and 4 into a first down.
CMU plays at Rhodes College in Memphis 
Saturday at 1:30 pm. The game will be covered 
by WRCT 88.3 FM.
Top: CMLTs Cheer­
leaders reloaded with 
more members and a 
more dedicated 
squad. Bottom: The 
football team let an 
opponent slip by for 
the first time this 
season, losing to 
Grove City 26-7 in 
Cleveland.
Top of page Scottie Dog art 
by Mark Adato/Tartan 
Assistant Art Editor
Jason Siegendorf/Tartan Contributing Editor
Cheerleaders gain 
in numbers, spirit
Anthony Chao/Tartan Photo Editor
By RYAN KELLOGG
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
If s fall, and as any dedicated sports fan 
knows, that means football. The safety 
blitz, the on-side kick, and drunken fans 
who think they know more than the coach 
are all back in full force. But there’s some­
thing that’s just as much a part of football 
as the triple option or another winning 
season at CMU—something that football 
wouldn’t be complete without. That’s right 
— Pm talking about cheerleaders!
If you’ve noticed something different 
about football games this year, it has 
likely been the vastly increased pres­
ence of the CMU cheerleaders. The 
team’s surprising rise in numbers and 
ability has caught the eye of many who 
previously viewed CMU cheerleading as 
somewhat less than respectable. But 
what’s this? A group that has more than 
doubledin size and can be heard over the 
stadium din? And they’re doing difficult 
cheers — and doing them extremely 
well! How could this be?
According to captain Melissa 
Gongaware, a senior psychology major, 
this has been a year of transformation 
for the squad. “The team is more dedi­
cated,” said Gongaware. “They want to 
put forth the extra effort to make sure 
the cheers are done well.”
In addition to mandatory practices 
twice a week, the team often gets to­
gether on their own to refine their stunts. 
The metamorphosis is also due to an 
influx of new blood, as the team consists
of eight freshmen women and sophomore 
co-captain Mike Bode, in addition to their 
illustrious captain. Also a part of the 
team are the Scotty Dog mascots (yes, 
there are two of them), who labor under­
neath that hot black costume (no, it’s not 
a real dog). Despite their relative youth, 
most of the members have significant 
cheerleading backgrounds and those who 
don’t have caught on very quickly. This has 
allowed them to excel despite having only 
one week to prepare for the first game.
The fans aren’t the only ones impressed 
with the team. “I am so excited about 
this year,” said coach Susan Jovorski. 
“They are focused on a ‘we’ attitude 
rather than an T attitude. Everyone 
here is a perfectionist to begin with, and 
that carries over into cheerleading.” 
They have been a team in the true sense 
of the word, sticking together as a group 
outside of cheering — they recently volun­
teered atthe Triathlon competition together.
“I love this job!” said Coach Jovorski. “I 
get to be around people who are always 
happy. They’ve made cheerleading their 
major commitment.”
“Susan is great,” said Gongaware. “She 
has been really flexible and open to sug­
gestions.” With all this hard work and 
teamwork, it’s not a surprise that coach 
Jovorski received two Tartan Apprecia­
tion Awards for her efforts with the team.
The crowd response to the new-look 
cheerleading team has been, in a word, 
“Great!” said Gongaware. “The Kiltie 
Band and Scotty Dog are fun to work 
Please see DEDICATION, page 11
Soccer team battles opponents, rain
By RYAN KELLOGG
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
To the strains of “Sweet Home, 
Alabama,” the CMU women’s soc­
cer team took the field Wednes­
day, September 10 in hopes that a 
return to their home field — and a 
return of the familiar Pittsburgh 
rain — would signal a return to 
the win column as they took on a 
tough Allegheny College team in 
a non-conference matchup.
Both teams looked somewhat 
ragged early in the first half, 
which may have had more to do 
with the slippery field than any­
thing else. While both teams were 
able to hold possession of the ball 
for extended periods, neither was 
able to capitalize and create many 
good opportunities.
The CMU defense held strong, 
aided by the excellent goal-tend­
ing of Lindsay Smith who made a 
superb save 13 minutes into the 
game to keep it scoreless. Al­
though the Gators out-cornered 
Carnegie Mellon 2-0, both at­
tempts were defended well.
After a back-and-forth battle 
for most of the half, the Tartans 
began to put the pressure on with 
about six minutes left until half- 
time. With a tight passing game 
that showed flashes of brilliance, 
CMU was able to make the many
Allegheny fans that were present 
more than a little nervous, but 
the defense held and both teams 
went into the locker room (or in 
Allegheny’s case, a corner of the 
field) with goose eggs on the 
scoreboard.
The strong pressure the 
Tartans displayed at the 
end of the first half contin­
ued after half-time, aided 
by a much-improved pass­
ing game, and the CMU 
women settled into the Al­
legheny side of the field.
But Allegheny repelled 
the Tartans’ first corner 
kick of the evening and 
quickly counterattacked, 
pushing the ball into CMU 
territory. Following a 
throw-in, Allegheny gained 
possession and kicked a 
high, arching shot from the 
near sideline across the 
face of the goal just into 
the top right corner of the 
goal, putting the good guys 
down 1-0 eight minutes 
into the second half.
shots and another comer kick.
Following an extended Allegh­
eny College attack, CMU sped 
toward the opposing goal and 
kicked a high shot, similar to the 
one Allegheny had scored on ear­
lier, that glanced off the crossbar
Brian Smith/Tartan Photo Staff 
The women’s soccer team has had trouble
stepping up to opponents, but are playing an 
Alumnae game this Sunday in Gesling at noon.
Knowing there was plenty of with 17 minutes left in the game.
time left, the Tartans turned the 
pressure on, storming down the 
field with the ensuing kickoff. 
The team played hard, ran down 
a number of loose balls, and was 
rewarded with several strong
Allegheny came right back and 
sent a hard shot that would have 
scored were it not for another 
excellent save by Lindsay Smith.
But time was running out for 
the Tartans. Allegheny was able lege level.
to control possession in the Tari 
tans’ end, and following a CMU 
goal kick resulting from an er­
rant Allegheny pass, the Gators 
got the ball and rocketed a hard 
shot from 30 yards out into the 
bottom left corner of the net, put­
ting them up 2-0 with only
11 minutes to go.
The CMU women con­
tinued to play hard and 
pressure Allegheny with 
another shot that just 
missed and a terrific cross 
to set up a shot, but were 
unable to score as timé 
expired. Despite the tough 
loss that dropped the Tar­
tans to 0-4, the team played 
with all-out hustle and kept 
the pressure on Allegheny 
throughout the game.
“I am proud of the way 
we played,” said senior 
captain Mary Wall. “We 
played a great game 
against a very strong 
team. We had a lot of good 
opportunities and played 
with a lot of intensity.” 
Look for this talented but young 
group (starters include seven un­
derclassmen and only one senior) 
to recover from a slow start to the 
season and turn things around as 
they gain experience at the col-
Volleyball team prepares for tourney
By JESSICA STRELITZ
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon women’s 
volleyball team had a tough week­
end at John Carroll, dropping all 
four of their matches and finish­
ing last in the tournament — the 
team’s record now stands at a 
disheartening 0-10.
But this is not a squad that 
can’t win. They have shown 
flashes of incredible talent all 
year, especially during their home 
match against Washington and 
Jefferson College two weeks ago. 
After that match, the W&J coach 
came forth to compliment Coach 
Julie Webb on her team’s perfor­
mance, and asked about the 
team’s record. When Webb re­
plied “0-6”, the W&J coach said, 
“Well,you sure don’t play like an 
0-6 team.”
The team has struggled to fin­
ish games this season. It is not a
matter of not scoring points, but 
they have trouble with continu­
ing momentum and putting the 
games away to clinch. The Tar­
tans dropped their first match to 
Mount St. Joseph’s in straight 
games 15-9, 15-8, 15-9. They 
struggled with putting the ball 
away but still put forth consis­
tent effort.
They next faced home team 
John Carroll, who bounced the 
CMU squad in three games 15-9, 
15-10 and 15-3.
The Tartans started out Satur­
day playing Dennison, in what 
captain Brittany Rutter called 
their best match of the day. Al­
though the Tartans lost, the 
games were close at 15-12,15-9 
and 15-10. Rutter cited strong 
passing and defensive work as 
achievements for the day’s play.
“It’s disappointing because 
we’re not playing badly, we’re just 
not connecting,” said Rutter, who
is the lone senior on a team that 
is dominated by sophomores. 
Webb has commended Rutter for 
her leadership role in keeping 
the younger players focused.
The last match of the tourna­
ment was against Kenyon. CMU 
took the first game 15-9, then 
gave up a loss in the second 9-15.
Webb said that the team played 
the same starting line as she has 
all season, but she’s continued to 
have to work around the absence 
of Steph Szobota who has been 
out with an injury all season. 
Webb has switched some play1 
ers out of position to try to fill the 
hitter’s hole and said that
“It’s disappointing because we’re not 
playing badly. ”
— Brittany Rutter, volleyball captain
The Tartans rallied to force a 
fourth game by wining the next 
one 16-14 and then got slammed 
in the fourth game 6—15. The 
fifth game was the most frus­
trating, as the Tartans had a 
sizable lead at the start of play, 
but Kenyon rallied for seven 
straight points and put CMU 
away 14-16.
Szobota hopes to return to prac­
tice this week.
The Tartans are playing in the 
UAA tournament next weekend 
in Rochester from Friday throug]) 
Sunday. According to Rutter, the 
team goal is to win some of the 
eight matches, but that the team? 
in the round robin competition 
are going to be tough.
Problems sideline 
club baseball team
By STACEY REED
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The CMU baseball club was 
scheduled to play this weekend, 
but both games were cancelled 
due to inclement weather and 
lack of opponents. Saturday’s 11 
am game was called a half hour 
before the first pitch due to... you 
guessed it—rain. Sunday’s game 
would have plotted the team 
against Franciscan University, 
but the game was cancelled when 
the opponent’s coach called and 
said he didn’t have enough pitch­
ing. Apparently this is a legiti­
mate excuse in the wide world of 
club sports.
Playing outdoor sports in Pitts­
burgh should be against the law. 
Chances are at least one in 10 
that the game will be rained out. 
The CMU club usually does not 
make up their rain-outs either, 
so they’re left with several holes 
in their season.
Being a club team, these games 
are don’t taint their standings, 
but merely as a missed opportu­
nity to play as a team. Most of the 
teams they play are varsity teams, 
some at division two schools. These 
teams are not eager to reschedule 
missed games because playing a 
club team figures only into their 
overall, not their league stand­
ings. This means that whether or 
not they played a club team has no 
bearing once the playoffs hit.
This past weekend, the team had 
away games against the Commu­
nity College of Allegheny County at 
Boyce. They lost both games in the 
double header, but team captain 
Jon Zubiller credits this to defen­
sive problems, not to their perfor­
mance at the plate. “Walks and 
errors arekillingus,” said Zubiller.
Freshman Brian Yuen 
pitched the first game. “He 
pitched an incredible game for 
his first time pitching on the 
college level,” said Zubiller. Ed 
Cudahy relieved him and fin­
ished the game. Jon Mayes 
started the second game, which 
was finished by Steven Wetter.
Additions to the team this sea­
son include catchers Phil 
Michalak and Tyler Burke, and 
also shortstop Justin Peroli. 
Michalak was scheduled to play 
this weekend but has yet to play 
due to the cancellations. Peroli 
has been out due to an injury.
After taking a year off, 
oufielder Raphael Tavaras 
has rejoined the team. Lead­
ing the rookies is catcher 
Burke, who has played full 
games in the past four games 
of the season. Burke’s perfor­
mance behind the plate has 
been commendable.
The team has four away 
games this weekend, playing a 
double header on Saturday 
against Westmoreland County 
Community College and two 
more on Sunday against the 
Community College of Beaver 
County. The games begin at 1 
pm both days. The second 
games will follow 20 minutes 
after the end of the first.
If you are interested in play­
ing for the team, contact cap­
tain Jon Zubiller at jz2f. Prac­
tices are held Tuesdays and 
Thursdays from 4:30 to 7 pm.
Keep it up...
Anna Fortin/Tartan Junior Staff 
Crew has finished dry safety test and is ready for the river.

---------------------------------------------------

Volume 92, Issue 4The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania22 September 1997
Campus design reflects culture
By TRACY ODELL
Tartan Diversions Editor
Do you realize that every day, you 
go to class, eat lunch, and socialize 
on one of the most celebrated cam­
puses in the nation? The CMU cam­
pus has always received recognition 
for its master plan and overall archi­
tectural design. Recently, this at­
tention has increased because of the 
addition of the University Center 
and the construction of the Purnell 
Center for the Arts. These buildings 
signal a return to the original style 
of the first buildings on campus, 
designed by CMU’s first architect, 
Henry Hombostel.
Hornbostel, designer of the 
University’s original campus plan 
and the first head of the Architec-
ture Department, transformed the 32- 
acre cabbage farm that the city of Pitts­
burgh donated to Andrew Carnegie 
into the campus we see today.
Hombostel’s design firm, Palmer and 
Hornbostel, won a national competition 
to design the campus of the Carnegie 
Technical Schools. The winning 
Hornbostel design revolved around two 
strong axes. The horizontal axis runs 
between Hammerschlag Hall and the 
College of Fine Arts, forming a mall 
similar to the Mall today. The vertical 
axis runs from Forbes Avenue to Frew 
Street and outlines the Cut.
These perpendicular axes create a 
strong symmetry and the quadrangles 
around which the original buildings 
are placed. The buildings include 
present-day Hamerschlag Hall, the 
College of Fine Arts, Porter Hall, Baker
Hall, Doherty Hall, and Margaret 
Morrison-Carnegie Hall.
Hornbostel not only provided an 
overall campus plan, but also de­
signed many of the buildings that 
make up his design. Hornbostel was 
the primary architect on the first 
nine buildings constructed on this 
campus, until the completion of the 
Gymnasium in 1932.
With the construction of Carnegie 
Tech’s first building, Administra­
tion Hall (now Baker Hall), 
Hornbostel employed the architec­
tural elements he would later use 
in endless varieties throughout 
campus. Changing levels, cream 
brick and terra cotta, arches, and 
niches are some of Hornbostel’s sig­
nature pieces.
Please see PLAN, page L5
Architect remains true to vision
By BECKY A. COWSER
Tartan Features Editor
“I’ve just been to the most amaz­
ing place. The architecture is in­
credible — you should see it.”
If Jerry Wells had not uttered these 
few lines to Michael Dennis one fate­
ful day, much of the CMU campus as 
we know it may never have existed. 
As the architect behind such cam­
pus structures as the University 
Center, Highlander Cafe, Gesling 
Stadium, Resnik and West Wing 
Dormitories, and the upcoming 
Purnell Center for the Arts, Dennis 
first learned about CMU through 
his then-partner Wells, and a long­
standing relationship with the cam­
pus was formed.
Dennis knew the University mas­
ter plan well before any of his own 
blueprints were unfurled. He began 
his familiarization with the campus 
architecture during visits when he 
conducted critiques for architecture 
students. It was these times that 
allowed him to develop a respect for 
the campus design and Henry 
Hornbostel, CMU’s original archi­
tect and designer.
“Hornbostel is like an undiscovered 
genius,” said Dennis. “So when the 
competition came up to build in that 
context, it was more than anyone 
could resist. But it was also intimi­
dating to have to measure up to such 
good building.”
The campus plan competition was 
announced in 1987, when the current 
campus design was not conducive to 
the reputation that CMU had estab­
lished and wanted to maintain. The 
University needed parking spaces, dor­
mitories, recreational facilities, and a 
dining hall. The one stipulation of the 
contest to build CMU into the next 
century was that the architectural style 
should reflect the quality of the design 
of Hornbostel’s original quadrangle.
“I think there were three reasons 
why we beat our competition. One, our 
plans were a language that was comple­
mentary to [the architecture] of the 
existing campus. Two, our design re­
shaped campus and its spaces in a 
more extensive and complete way than 
most of the other [firms’]. Three, the 
way the University Center was orga­
nized — the program of the building 
was to serve mind, body, and spirit,” 
said Dennis.
“At CMU, people have come to 
realize that [the campus plan] is an 
amazing legacy. It’s a resource and a 
value that you can’t put a price on,” 
said Dennis. “It makes [CMU] physi­
cally unique, and that makes a real 
challenge for us — how to design 
buildings of our times that will re­
late to those buildings.”
A frequently noticed aspect of Den­
nis’ campus structures are their simi­
larity to Hornbostel’s, not only in 
distinct style but also in architec­
tural feeling. The buildings of 
Hornbostel and Dennis both utilize 
arches, cream-colored brick, and 
grandiose entrances such as 
Hornbostel’s College of Fine Arts 
niches and Dennis’ Purnell Center 
lobby, which will boast a three-story, 
open space entrance. However, Den­
nis is quick to assert that similari­
ties should only be drawn so closely.
“It’s almost like a father and a son 
— you have to assert yourself as a 
son independently of the father, oth­
erwise you become a clone, and not 
as good usually,” said Dennis.
“Hornbostel’s architecture is 
unique and consistent. Other col- 
Please see ARCHITECT, page L5

---------------------------------------------------

L2The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 22 September 1997
College Briefs I Paintings define professor’s innovation
COLLEGE OF 
FINE ARTS
The Frame Art Gallery, located at 
5200 Forbes Avenue, is currently 
accepting proposals for student art 
shows for the Fall ’97 semester. The 
Frame is an experimental gallery 
and is open to all forms of work, 
medium, and style. Forms are avail­
able at the University Center infor­
mation desk. Anyone interested 
should email Enrique Sacasa 
(sacasa@and.rew) or Gretchen 
Dematera (gretch@andrew).
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE 
OF TECHNOLOGY
The Department of Mechanical 
Engineering will hold a department- 
wide picnic on Friday, September 
26th at 4:30 pm. The cost is $1.00, 
and it will be held outside of Scaife 
Hall near Schenley Park. Questions 
can be posted to assocs.ASME, or 
emailed to Jenna Sweterlitsch 
{jsen@andrew).
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF 
INDUSTRIAL ADMINISTRATION
On Tuesday, September 23 at 5:30 
pm, James Bierbower and John 
Gabrielli will be on campus to volun­
teer their time to help students de­
velop interviewing skills through 
mock interviews. Bierbower is vice 
president of executive recruitment 
for the Kaufmann’s division of the 
May Department Stores, and 
Gabrielli is manager of executive 
recruitment. Anyone interested 
should register in the Career Center.
Also, today, Monday, September 
22 from 7 to 8:30 pm there will be a 
presentation by Donald Asher, the 
author of “Graduate Admissions: 
What Works, What Doesn’t and 
Why.” The program will take place 
in Rangos Hall and is open to all 
students interested in successfully 
applying to graduate or professional 
programs.
HUMANITIES & 
SOCIAL SCIENCES
The Social and Decision Science 
Department will host a University 
Research Seminar on technology and 
social change on Tuesday, Septem­
ber 24, at 3:30 pm in Porter Hall 
223D. John Sutton of the London 
School of Economics will speak on 
the topic of “Technology and Market 
Structure: Theory and History.” 
Also, the Psychology Department 
will be holding one part of this 
semester’s colloquium series also on 
Tuesday. Robbie Case will speak on 
the topic of “Number Sense and Its 
Development: A new look at a ne­
glected form of learning.” Anyone 
interested should contact the Psy­
chology Department.
MELLON COLLEGE 
OF SCIENCE
Dr. Dan J ay of the Molecular Biol­
ogy Department at Harvard Uni­
versity will speak on Friday, Sep­
tember 26 at 3:30 pm. The lecture is 
on the topic of “Clutches and Motors 
in Nerve Growth Cone Motility” and 
will take place in the Mellon Insti­
tute Social room. Anyone interested 
should contact Jon Minden 
(minden@) or see the Website at 
info.bio.cmu.edu.
SCHOOL OF 
COMPUTER SCIENCE
On Thursday, September 25, in 
5409 Wean Hall, Jim Buonocore of 
Coopers and Lybrand Consulting 
will speak on “Data Archiving: Why 
Corporate Systems are a Mess and 
How We Make Sense Out of It.” 
The program will take place at 
6:30 pm.
In addition, Marco Zagha, a PhD 
candidate, will hold his thesis de­
fense in 4615A Wean Hall on Tues­
day, September 23 at 1:30 pm. His 
thesis is entitled “Efficient Irregu­
lar Computation.”
The walls of Posner Hall are adorned 
by abstract 3-D images painted on can­
vas. Upon closer examination, one of the 
vividly colored paintings, entitled “Sep­
tum Pellucidum” harkens back to 
pointillism of Seurat, while the sharp 
angles and bold, lines establish it firmly 
in the modern era. The artist, Rich Young, 
walks through his exhibit every morn­
ing on his way to his office in the 
GSIA. The paintings are his, the 
professor’s creation, and with the help 
of new technology, a robot, his vision 
has come to fruition.
Young, who teaches writing, com­
position, and communication skills 
in GSIA, uses a robot to paint the 
images he envisions using his com­
puter. Although he studied, painting 
at Hollins College and in the MFA 
program at the University of Arkan­
sas, he earned his PhD from CMU in 
rhetoric, and studied English at 
Hampton-Sydney College in Virginia.
He has managed to balance a love of 
artwork with a solid teaching career.
The exhibit will be in the gallery in 
Posner Hall until October 11.
The Tartan: Can you explain a bit 
about the artwork that you do?
Rich Young: It’s actually created 
by a robot. I create the image on my 
computer at home, and I send the 
image on'a Zip disk to a company in San 
Diego, CA. I actually found out about 
the company on the Discovery Channel. 
It was a real surprise. I’d just discov­
ered I could do neat stuff with my com­
puter, and I didn’t want to use a laser 
printer or do an ink jet printout, and I 
thought, how can I present this? Then I 
called around town, and got [the 
company’s] telephone number. It’s a 
company called Folio D. It’s been around 
for maybe four years.
Not everybody likes what the robot 
does. The robot sprays paint out of little 
nozzles, and it doesn’t have that lush­
ness of a hand-painted brush stroke, but 
it has a nice quality of its own. That’s 
what the guy from the [Pittsburgh] Post- 
Gazette said. He said he didn’t like the 
texture, but that he had never seen 
anything like it.
IT: What was the inspiration for this 
type of artwork?
zling photo-realistic effects to each 
image’s overall abstract design.
TT: Where have you been able to dis­
play your artwork, either at CMU, in 
Pittsburgh, or elsewhere?
RY: I’ve only displayed my work in 
GSIA. The reaction is generally favor­
able, although some people object to the
Antnony unao/1 artan Fnoto taitor
Richard Young’s 3-D paintings, composed with the help of a robot, adorn the walls of GSIA.
RY: I was just playing around one 
evening with one of those drawing pack­
ages, using 3-D images. [This exhibit] is 
the second one I’ve had in this gallery. 
The first one was using 2-D images.
Although I’ve created a lot of abstract 
images by hand, I would never have
robot format, but no one so far has ob­
jected to the images.
I guess painting is old-fashioned, and 
that’s probably why I don’t have too much 
of a connection with the Art Department 
here. I’m just a great admirer of the folks 
over there. My impression is that the
imagined the paintings in this exhibit work the Art Department does is so be- 
without a computer. [The computer] yond 2-D painting that they would con- 
gives me control over hundreds of vari- sider this old-fashioned. I’m still trying to 
ables. The results are often so complex get a good static image. My goal is to 
that I feel as if I had plugged into the create a distinct and visually stunning
mind of a super-intelligent, super-skill- 
ful artist. I think my challenge is to 
subordinate the new technology’s daz-
abstract aesthetic that takes full advan­
tage of the latest computer technology. 
TT: What were some of the difficulties
you have encountered in trying to teach, 
produce artwork, and have a gallery 
exhibition at the same time?
RY: It hasn’t been difficult at all. Mostly 
because I have this automated process 
as opposed to creating images. The gal­
lery people at GSIA have been so gener­
ous. They have allowed me to exhibit in 
the space for free and they threw a 
nice party for the opening.
TT: What are some of the stereo­
types people have about GSIA?
RY: We’re known for being tech­
nology-oriented and quantitatively 
oriented, and some people think that 
we’re offering some sort of techno­
based MBA [Masters of Business 
Administration]. And this computer- 
based art is consistent with our im­
age. CMU is a technical school, and 
so if we can use technology for creat­
ing artwork, I think that’s a nice fit.
TT: What are some strengths and 
weaknesses about GSIA?
RY: I think it’s a great school, there 
aren’t really that many weaknesses. 
I think until the University Center 
we weren’t really very student-ori­
ented, but we’re getting stronger at 
that, and that’s the direction we 
should be moving in.
TT: In what ways, if any, is GSIA 
isolated from the rest of the CMU 
community?
RY: I think to some extent we are 
isolated. To me, everyone is somewhat 
isolated. We’re all in separate buildings, 
so I think physical separation has a lot 
to do with it. But I think it would be a 
very different school without that as­
pect. Like if the Art Department was 
physically right inside GSIA.
TT: Who are some artists that have 
influenced you?
RY: Frank Stella, definitely. He’s an 
abstract American painter. He does really 
exuberant, alive work. He’s kind of a bench­
mark for me. Fm always trying to come up 
with an image that would outdo him.
Coll int/i fltâ
useue ivimer-uixon/1 artan uarKroom Manager
Making way for the Purnell Center for the Arts involved fencing off most of the Cut and losing many of the trees that lined the walkway between Warner and Doherty.
Volunteers help children realize 'dream’
By ANNE RAY
Tartan Assistant Features Editor
Children from a school like Pittsburgh’s 
Fort Pitt Elementary may never even 
have the chance to go to college, 
oftentimes because of academics that 
are just too rigorous, or because of the 
high cost. Imagine that you are one of 
those children, and then a group of stu­
dents from a local university approaches 
you and make this offer: your college 
education is already paid for, all you 
have to do is graduate from high school, 
and we’ll even help you do that.
This pledge is what the CMU chapter 
of the “I Have A Dream” Foundation has 
made to 95 fourth-graders at Fort Pitt 
Elementary School. The chapter was es­
tablished at the GSIA in 1993, and stu­
dents from the GSIA, the Heinz School,
and the Department of Business Admin­
istration tutor these 95 fourth-graders, 
act as mentors, and provide chances for 
them to combat the negative forces of 
the neighborhoods they live in — drugs, 
gangs, and lack of role models.
Recently, Brenda Waters of KDKA-TV 
News highlighted CMU’S chapter for its 
achievements in a morning broadcast.
Providing motivation for school-age kids 
in a neighborhood such as Fort Pitt’s is 
not an easy task, said Laurie Weingart, 
associate professor in GSIA and member 
of the chapter’s Board of Directors.
“The dropout rate in this area is typi­
cally about 50 percent,” said Weingart. 
“We chose one of the more depressed 
areas in Pittsburgh.”
But the “I Have A Dream” Foundation 
at CMU is looking to turn that statistic 
around. One of the principles of the foun­
dation is that no one, regardless of aca­
demic performance or trouble that they 
may get into, is ever dropped from the 
program. The “dreamers,” as the stu­
dents are referred to, often hear the slo­
gan “Once a dreamer, always a dreamer.”
Tutors meet with their students once a 
week, and according to Mike Selwood, a 
1997 graduate of GSIA and former tutor, 
the benefit to the children is immense.
“There are two groups of people [who] 
really benefit,” said Selwood. “The up­
per level kids, who are academically 
talented... I look at those kids and think 
that they’re going to be infinitely better 
off with the program. And the kids on 
the lower [academic] end, some of whom 
are getting into gang trouble, are the 
kids who would at least get the second 
chance or the opportunity for someone 
to care about them, instead of the ‘one
strike and you’re branded’ situation. And 
that’s something these kids don’t get 
from life where they come from.” 
Selwood also said that the students 
get the chance to visit a highly-ranked 
school like CMU at a closer level, which 
provides a long-term goal for them. The 
children he tutored once had the chance 
to work in the computer labs at GSIA.
“[Seeing this school] gives them initia­
tive to go to school. The kids get the 
chance to see college as a cool place.” 
The benefits of such close-up interac­
tion are clear, according to Weingart.
“I think what we’re seeing right now 
with these kids is that [the program] is 
definitely having an impact on their 
attendance,” said Weingart. “Kids at 
this age tend to not want to go to school. 
We seem to be avoiding that trend with 
our group of kids.”
ON CAMPUS

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 22 September 1997L3
Society refuses to 
accept body hair
HfdpvmsD Lil ErLi
by Elizabeth Irvine
Shaving has always been a danger­
ous activity. It takes time and effort, 
and you have to be very careful not to 
hurt yourself while getting rid of the 
unwanted hair. I shaved my legs for 
the first time when I was in sixth 
grade. My friend Beth and I sat in her 
parent’s bathroom while I shaved off a 
huge chunk of my flesh, and it bled all 
over the bathmat. I decided to rebel — 
I quit. With the exceptions of my 
cousin’s wedding and prom night, I 
didn’t shave. But I regressed a few 
nights ago — I felt like such a sell-out.
It’s funny that body hair on Women 
is supposed to be disgusting. Society 
dictates that the only place women 
should have hair is on their heads. 
Considering that just the mention of 
pubic haii- is a faux pas, I’m sure sum­
mertime is stressful for most women 
(read: high-cut bathing suits). It’s no 
wonder the shorts bikini is so trendy. 
The typical ’80s bathing suit is impos­
sible to wear without some type of hair 
removal process.
I have to wonder if the hairless 
women trend is somehow related to 
the Greek’s notion of hairy as “bar­
baric.” Body hair has not always been 
a universal taboo; in fact, histori­
cally, hair has been known to be a 
virile quality. Barcelona’s patron 
saint, Guifre el Pelos (Wilfred the 
Hairy), was a great warrior and up­
standing man, endowed with incred­
ible body hair. And weren’t Samson 
and Esau pretty hairy? The bible is
full of hairy and heroic men, but hairy 
women are considered to be repulsive 
and strange.
There is even a female martyred 
saint who was hairy. The Portuguese 
virgin Wigefortis did not want to marry 
the man she was forced to wed. Be­
cause she had taken the vow of chas­
tity, she prayed to be ugly. The morn­
ing of her wedding, Wigefortis woke 
up with a full mustache and beard. 
Naturally, the wedding was called off 
and Wigefortis was crucified. Hairi­
ness, ugliness, and sometimes even 
death, go hand in hand.
Hair and sexuality are intrinsically 
linked. In the ’70s, women who didn’t 
shave were deemed sexually liberated. 
But now the act of shaving has become 
sexy. Commercials for women’s ra­
zors sexualize the act of hair removal. 
To be hairy means you are a man- 
hating lesbian, definitely not sexy in 
heterosexual mainstream culture. 
Hairlessness on the body is accept­
able, but a woman with a shaved head 
or a woman with cancer is pitied or 
considered weird. This paradox is 
strange. It is a type of infantilization 
of women, one which says the ideal 
female is prepubescent.
The methods of hair removal are 
torturous. Does anyone remember 
the Epilady? It was a small electric 
device invented in the ’80s with coils 
that ripped out leg hair — it was 
excruciating. Then there is the de­
pilatory, a stinky cream which “magi­
cally” sweeps hair away. And of 
course there is the most primal of all 
hair removal: shaving.
I am not sure why there is an ob­
session with hair removal for women. 
Is it the scary notion that we are in 
fact mammals, closer to apes than 
we want to be? Is the infantilization 
of grown women a kind of pedophile 
ideal? The fact is, it is yet another 
painful, strenuous way for women to 
achieve beauty.
Heritage month confirms pride
By DANIEL ARP
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
“It’s kind of like observing the 
Fourth of July while living in another 
country,” said Jose Perez, a junior 
industrial management major. “You 
might go out for dinner but not light 
up the skies there with fireworks.”
That’s the purpose of Hispanic 
Heritage Month, which kicked off 
last Saturday and runs until Octo­
ber 24 — not only to increase aware­
ness in the community, but also to 
give people of all Hispanic origins a 
chance to come together to celebrate 
their heritage.
In Pittsburgh, the Hispanic com­
munity is rela
“Demographics indicate that the His­
panic population is one of the fastest- 
growing in the U.S., and I’d like for 
Carnegie Mellon to reflect a broader 
society,” said Walton.
The festivities began last Saturday 
at McConomy Auditorium with the 
Cuarteto Latinoamericano, a world- 
renowned chamber music ensemble in 
its 10th season in residence.
This was followed on Wednesday by 
the Heritage Luncheon, sponsored by 
the Pittsburgh Hispanic Chamber of 
Commerce. The keynote speaker was 
Angel Jordan, professor of electrical 
and computer engineering.
“I was happy to see there was a fac­
ulty member who was a guest speaker,”
tively small, yet 
by no means non­
existent.
“Hispanic stu­
dents experience 
isolation in Pitts­
burgh because 
there is not a 
larger community —^ 
in the city,” said
Ty Walton, assistant director of the 
Carnegie Mellon Action Project (CMAP).
Added to the problem of size is the 
related problem of a community 
somewhat disconnected from chan­
nels of communication. “The [His­
panic population] that exists [in 
Pittsburgh] does so in a more low- 
key fashion,” said Perez.
“We were approached by some stu­
dents on our roster last year who 
thought the University had been re­
miss in not acknowledging [the His­
panic population],” said Walton. 
“And given that this office [CMAP] 
is set up for such purposes, we 
wanted to make sure their needs 
were addressed.”
Walton was on the University 
Planning Committee for the 
month’s events, along with George 
Stroud (a CMAP staff member), 
Heather Midkiff of Student Activi­
ties, and Catherine McGraw of Stu­
dent Affairs.
“Hispanic students experience isolation in 
Pittsburgh because there is not a larger 
community in the city, ”
— Ty Walton, assistant director of the 
____________Carnegie Mellon Action Project
said Nicole Ayala, a sophomore in the 
humanities and social sciences. “That 
helped me to feel more connected to 
the rest of the panel.”
“It was nice to see that there are 
this many Latins in Pittsburgh.... 
It was inspiring,” said Jordan 
Chan-Mendez, a sophomore in in­
dustrial management.
Future events include the “Diversity 
Round Table,” this Wednesday, Sep­
tember 24, at 6 pm. Students from 
different backgrounds will have the 
opportunity to discuss life on campus 
and in the community.
On Thursday, October 2, at 5 pm, 
there will be a lecture on “Latin Ameri­
can Contributions to the United States” 
presented by Kenya Dworkin, a CMU 
professor of modern languages.
“This month is a good way to bring 
Latins together and maybe get them to 
know a little bit about themselves,” 
said Chan-Mendez.
There are many students of Hispanic
origin at CMU who know very little of 
their heritage, especially those who 
were born and raised as Americans. 
This was part of the reasoning behind 
putting the flags of all the different 
Hispanic nations on display in the 
CMAP office.
“I think students feel very proud 
when they come in our office and see 
the flag of their country up on the 
wall,” said Walton. “And it may be the 
case that some of them have never 
seen it.”
With all the flags decorating the 
walls, each representing a distinct cul­
ture, the question may arise: what is 
“Hispanic Heritage?”
The word “Hispanic,” in fact, has 
been the subject of 
controversy in recent 
years, for it creates a 
single category for 
cultures as distinct 
from one another as 
Spain is from Cuba, 
for instance.
“I think that the 
word ‘Hispanic’ does 
not have a negative 
connotation and it’s a word of uni­
fication for all Hispanic nations,” 
said Ayala.
One student, upon noticing that the 
Brazilian flag was conspicuously ab­
sent from the CMAP display, ex­
pressed disappointment.
The staff tried to explain to the 
student that the Brazilian language 
is derived from Portuguese and is not 
technically “Hispanic.” But the stu­
dent insisted, and brought her own 
Brazilian flag from home to be in­
cluded in the display.
“So far, I think it’s going well,” said 
Walton. “More than anything, I’m glad 
to have [some activity] to offer almost 
every week.”
The celebration runs until October 
24. The flags will be on display in the 
CMAP office (Student Center 125) un­
til October 15. For more information, 
contact CMAP at x8-2150, or Student 
Affairs at x8-2705.
Ù|s C H 0 0 L
New fall fitness 
class schedule!
Featuring daily fitness classes!
Classes scheduled at both facilities!
REHEARSAL HALL 
CARNEGIE MUSEUMS/OAKLAND
The Lunch Crunch
Tues.: Sept.16 - Dec. 9 
12:15-1:15 p.m. 
Thurs..:.Sept.18 - Dec. 11 
12:15-1:15 p.m.fo°'fo0
Fri.: Sept. 19 - Dec. 12
12:15-1:15 p.m.
Dance Alloy's new one-hour fitness classes blend low-impact, high intensity moves inspired by African 
and modern dance with traditional aerobics. Shake up your fitness routine! Get your body in motion and 
alleviate stress while toning and elongating your body.
NEIGHBORHOOD 
DANCE CENTER/FRIENDSHIP
5530 Penn Avenue, Penn & Stratford 
(Entrance on Stratford Avenue)
*
ro\
Morning Stretch and Jam Sunday Morning Special
Mon.: Sept. 15 - Dec. 8 Wed.: Sept.17 - Dec. 10 Sun.: Sept. 21 - Dec. 14 
6:15-7:15 a.m. 7:30-8:30a.m. 10:30- 11:30a.m.
Wed.: Sept.17 - Dec. 10 Fri.: Sept. 19 - Dec. 12 
6:15-7:15a.m. 6:15-7:15a.m.
Dance Alloy School also offers . . . 
Beginning Ballet Body in Motion
It's never too late to begin! Aerobics with attitude.
Ballet I Modern Dance
Learning technique Exploring modern methods. 
Ballet II 
Taking technique further.
And much more . . .
©
To register, 622-3288. 
;or a complete class schedule,
412-363-4321.
[yU}snpui 0Inrespo
MEET THE COMPANY THAT IS TURNING THE SOFTWARE INDUSTRY UPSIDE DOWN
Trilogy was founded by five college students in 
1989. Today the company has grown to 300+ 
by employing graduates from the best schools 
In the country.
We are looking for top candidates from 
around the country to join our re-engineering 
revolution. Candidates should be extremely 
aggressive and creative. Strong communica­
tion and presentation skills are required along 
with the desire for continuous development. 
Only the best need apply. For more informa­
tion, see our website at www.trilogy.com
In addition, feel free to stop by our informa­
tion session:
SCAIFE HALL ROOM 206 
SEPTEMBER 25TH 
7PM TO 9PM
GULLIFTY'S WILL BE SERVED
If you have questions or you are interested In 
learning more about the next great software 
company, feel free to contact Chris Ostroot 
(chris.ostroot@trllogy.com)
m0r
TRILOGY RECRUITING
6034 WEST COURTYARD DR. 
AUSTIN, TEXAS 78730 
(512) 794-5900
VISIT OUR BOOTH AT THE TOC + THE B0C ON THE SEPTEMBER 25TH + 26TH

---------------------------------------------------

' *¦ Vi-' l i
PPORTUNITIES
Need a summer job??
Looking for permanent placement??
How about an internship?? 
Freshmen encouraged—you can never 
start too early!!
Bring your resumé and come speak to 
representatives from more than 150 
companies!
Strut your stuff and show ‘em what 
you’ve got to offer at the
I
VsssT rcivelaY' Sfp
I nsidieFor um 61hH* 25' '
_ O atDvEigywa ìJC
I,99,
ZcAGg
c•tik xn uxl2 
•llF2ZZW‘W‘giUxgtCxZirlZSruUtCZlui
6FuanumtC S& 6lxCtal c•hFltmn uE IEEE haC 6WE
Î?
CMU ID required for admission
Participating Companies Include:CooperationFore Systems, Inc.Microsoft CorporationScience Application International
Disco SystemsFujitsu Network Communications,MicroStrategy, Inc.Corp.
AMP IncorporatedClara Vista CorporationInc.MIT Lincoln LaboratorySeagate Technology
ATL Ultrasound, Inc.CNETGEC Marconi HazeltineMitre Corp.Silicon Graphics
Allstate Insurance CompanyCompunetixGreen Hills SoftwareMotorolaSimulate, Inc.
America OnlineConnect Inc.GTE Data ServicesM.W. Kellogg Co.Singapore Economic Develop­
Advanced BionicsCoopers & Lybrand ConsultingGeneral MotorsNational Instrumentsment Board
Advanced Information SystemsCrowe, Chizek and Company,Goldman Sachs Investment BankingNational Security AgencySoftware Technology, Inc.
Advanced Micro DevicesLLPHarris Corporation - ElectronicNational SemiconductorSprint North Central Operations
AT&TCytec Industries, Inc.SystemsNew MediaSprint
Aerospace CorporationData VizHewlett PackardNetscapeStandard Microsystems Corpora­
Air ProductsDaxus CorporationIBMNorthrop Grumman SBMStion
Allied SignalDean & CompanyINRIOracle CorporationStoner Associates, Inc.
Altera CorporationDecision Science ApplicationsILX SystemsOtisStottler Henke Assoc., Inc.
AMDAHL CorporationDefense Nuclear Facilitiesi2 TechnologiesPacesetter Inc.Sun Microsystems
American Management SystemsDelitte & Touche ConsultingICON SolutionsPaine WebberSymbol Technologies, Inc.
Annapolis Micro Systems, Inc.GroupILX SystemsParametric Technology Corp.Synopsys, Inc.
ANSOFT CorporationDiebold, Inc.Intel CorporationpcOrder.comT.T.S.
Approach, Inc.Digital SemiconductorInternational PaperPeriphonics Corp.TRW & Electronics Group
BBN CorporationDSC CommunicationsIris Technologies, Inc.Peterson ConsultingTandem Computers
BOC GasesEastern Research Group, Inc.J.D. EdwardsProcter & GambleTexas Instruments
Banker TrustEastman Kodak Co.I.P. Morgan & Co., Inc.QualcommTivoli Systems
Bayer CorporationEDSJames Martin & CompanyQuantumTransare Corporation
Bell Atlantic Network Services,Entergy CorporationKeithly Instruments, Inc.Quark, Inc.Travelers Property Casually
Inc.ERGKeystone Financial, Inc.RDI Software TechnologiesTrilogy
Bloomberg L.P.Evans & Sutherland ComputerKvaerner MetalsRDW Technologies, Inc.U.S. Fidelity & Guaranty Co.
BoeingCorp.Lawrence Livermore LabsRadiant Systems, Inc.U.S. Navy
Business Data ServicesFNX LimitedLockhead MartinRaytheonUS West
Capital OneFactSet Research Systems, Inc.Lucent TechnologiesSAICValspar Corporation
Carnegie GroupFairchild SemiconductorMRJ Technology SolutionsSabre GroupWatkinsJohnson
Case Technology CenterFederal ExpressManagement Science AssociatesSanta Cruz OperationsWestinghouse Electric Corp.
Caterpillar Inc.First USA BankManugisticsSapient CorporationWiseWire Corporation
Century Computing, Inc.FMC CorporationMerck & CompanySchlumbergerXilinx, Inc.
Chromatic Research ChryslerFord Motor CompanyMerrill LynchScientific Atlanta, Inc.Yurie Systems

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 22 September 1997L5
THE WORLD AWAITS YOU ...
IN THE
Building designs stand the test of time
PLAN, from page LI
Baker Hall serves as a re­
minder for students today of 
how the University began. 
Campus tours often describe 
Andrew Carnegie’s plans to 
turn the school into a factory if 
it did not succeed.
According to Martin Aurand, 
Architecture Librarian, there is 
no basis for this anecdote. 
“People today have trouble con­
ceiving this school as the tech­
nical school it once was.... The 
sloping halls made it easy to roll 
the heavy machinery used in 
the classroom. The interior was 
the same as in a factory because 
;ofthe nature of the skills taught. 
This is a far cry from being con­
ceived as a potential factory,” 
said Aurand.
While such rumors abound 
about some architectural ele­
ments on campus, there are other 
architectural feats by Hornbostel 
that seem to have gained signifi­
cance over the years.
“The Mall is as relevant to- 
;day as it was when it was built 
in the early part of the cen­
tury,” said Paul Tellers, Uni­
versity Architect. “The visual
axis between the College of Fine 
Arts and Hamerschlag Hall 
symbolizes, for me, the connec­
tion and creative tension be­
tween the arts and sciences that 
defines this institution.”
Despite Hornbostel’s attempt 
to maintain a singular vision of 
the Tech campus through archi­
tecture, later architects did not 
continue in his tradition of build­
ing. It is popular consensus that 
the dark period in the 
University’s architectural his­
tory was the period beginning in 
1952 with the construction of 
GSIA and ending in 1971 with 
the erection of Wean Hall. “The 
worst examples of architecture 
are those buildings of the ’50s, 
’60s, and ’70s that are highly 
individualistic and departed 
from the sense of community that 
was created by the earlier build­
ings,” said Tellers.
During this time, Hornbostel’s 
vision was thrown to the side and 
chaotic building ensued. Each 
building made an architectural 
statement, but not usually one 
that conformed with Hombostel’s 
vision. Some buildings observed 
the campus plan in their place­
ment but not in their form or 
materials. Unfortunately, this 
scattered architectural period 
produced buildings that many 
consider “campus eyesores.”
“In my opinion, the worst build­
ing of the era is gone,” said 
Aurand. “Skibo looked like it was 
just floating on the Cut.” Skibo, 
the former student union, was 
tom down in 1994 to make room 
for the new University Center.
Tellers picks Scaife Hall for the 
notorious distinction of worst 
building because of its unattrac­
tive facade and its position at the 
corner of the campus. This posi­
tion blocks the view of 
Hamerschlag and diminishes the 
sense of entrance to the campus 
from Schenley Park.
By 1985, the University was in 
need of a new master plan. Skibo 
was inadequate and the Drama 
Department had outgrown its 
space. A new master plan was 
produced—which included a uni­
versity center — that would com­
bine social and student activities 
with athletic facilities in an inter­
active setting. The Purnell Cen­
ter for the Arts was also included 
in the plan to provide more room
for the fine arts departments.
A competition was held to find 
an architect for the first building. 
The criteria stated that the de­
sign should “equal the quality of 
the original quadrangle design 
by Henry Hornbostel.”
Michael Dennis, Jeffery Clark, 
& Associates won the contract 
with their modernized version of 
Hornbostel style, incorporating 
the cream-colored brick and 
arches into the new buildings that 
mimic those of original 
Hornbostel design. These same 
architects had already designed 
Resnik and West Wing dormito­
ries, Gesling Stadium, and the 
parking garage. By securing the 
University Center contract, how­
ever, the Hornbostel style was 
destined to be revived as the pre­
dominant influence on campus.
Michael Dennis, Jeffery 
Clark, & Associates also won 
the competition to design the 
Purnell Center for the Arts — 
the crowning jewel of this final 
leg of campus architecture. 
With its construction under­
way, it is safe to say that 
Hornbostel once again reigns 
over the campus he designed.
Lecture series deals 
with racial identity
By ANAND MARATHE
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
“We all should be historians. We all can 
use historical documents to understand 
our own history, that of our family, and 
that of our community,” said professor 
James Oliver Horton of George Washing­
ton University. “University historians 
should be supportive 
in a variety of ways of 
the teaching of his­
tory that goes on out­
side of the university.
[Professors ofhistory] 
should lend [their] 
expertise to ensure 
that all history that 
is taught is good his­
tory based on sound 
historical research.”
Last Wednesay,
Horton urged faculty 
members and gradu­
ate students to teach 
history using not-so- 
standard methods.
His lecture, “Urban 
Alliances: The Dy­
namics of Work,
Race, and Identity in 
the Antebellum 
North,” was the sec­
ond in a series spon­
sored by the Midwest Consortium on 
Black Studies, the Center For African- 
American Urban Studies and the 
Economy (CAUSE), and the CMU De­
partment of History.
“The two seminars and conference aim 
to examine the historical and contempo­
rary position of African Americans, as­
sess the state of scholarship on the sub­
ject, suggest avenues for future study, 
and explore the implications of existing 
knowledge for policy decisions,” said Joe 
Trotter, director of CAUSE and professor 
of history. “More specifically, however, 
[the] public lectures will examine major 
changes in African-American urban and 
labor history from the early Revolution­
ary Era through recent times.”
The hope is that a variety of University 
and city members will participate, and the 
series will form a better link between the 
community and the University.
courtesy Joe Trotter 
Professor James Oliver Horton urged 
the use of non-tradltlonal teaching.
Horton’s lecture focused on the life 
and times of Edward Ambush, a slave 
from Washington, D.C. Horton fol­
lowed Ambush through his transi­
tion from freedom to slavery and 
until his death.
“[The lecture] is different from history 
books. It is an innovative way to under­
standing the history of people,” said 
Ronny Fernandez, a 
graduate student at 
the Heinz School of 
Public Policy and 
Management.
CAUSE is a re­
search center spon­
sored by the CMU 
Department of His­
tory. “CAUSE seeks 
to link the historian’s 
interest in change 
over time with con­
temporary discus­
sions of race, cities, 
and employment op­
portunities,” accord­
ing to the CAUSE 
Web site.
The primary aims 
of CAUSE are to link 
historians’ interests 
in socioeconomic 
studies with analy­
sis of the contempo­
rary urban labor force, race, and em­
ployment policies; study the connections 
within work and work-relations; iden­
tify the similarities and differences be­
tween black culture and others; and 
advance policies for the future based on 
events of the past.
The Center arranges programs for 
graduate and postdoctoral training, 
scholarly research, data collection, 
publications, and education.
Following the seminar, the Consor­
tium will meet for a conference in Ann 
Arbor, Michigan. The fall 1997 series 
will continue with speakers Ronald 
Lewis from West Virginia University, 
Brenda Stevenson from the Univer­
sity of California at Los Angeles 
(UCLA), and Tera Hunter from CMU.
More information is available at 
http:/ /hss.cmu.edu /HTML /depart­
ments / history / research / cause, html.
Architect adheres to 
original campus plan
ARCHITECT, from page LI
lege campuses have this kind of continu­
ity, but not many.... So when we began to 
build, we were mindful that we should 
maintain that,” he said. “I would call our 
style complementary.... You really can’t 
and shouldn’t imitate what’s there.” 
The Purnell Center for the Arts, which is 
currently under construction, is the last 
building of Dennis’ East Campus design 
and has been called by former President 
Mehrabian “the crowning jewel of the cam­
pus.” Dennis called the structure a funda­
mental building in that it is a complemen­
tary building to the University Center.
“The building is as good as we 
could make it, but when people see 
it, it will be painfully obvious that it 
needs that piece [mirroring the ver­
tical part of the University Cen­
ter],” said Dennis.
According to him, his firm proposed 
that the Purnell Center have a stretch 
of building that matched the section of 
the University Center which runs the 
length of the Cut to Forbes Avenue. 
However, that proposal was aban­
doned. Consequently, it is the one piece 
of architecture that Dennis would like 
to see added to the campus.
City aims
By DANIELLE PIERATTI
Tartan Staffwriter
It’s a mystery why many Pittsburgh 
college students are unaware of the op­
portunities the city offers for prospective 
graduates in the field of technology. Kevin 
Lane, the director of public relations for 
the Pittsburgh High Technology Council, 
has been part of a combined effort on the 
part of Pittsburgh technology-based com­
panies to try to figure out that mystery.
The Council will host @pgh.cafe on Oc­
tober 7 at CMU. The event is one of many 
efforts that have been made by various 
Pittsburgh organizations to try to increase 
the development and growth of the tech­
nology industry in Pittsburgh, an enter­
prise which, according to Lane, is already 
much larger than it’s given credit for.
Unfortunately, this lack of awareness 
holds true for the many students in Pitts­
burgh who could potentially play a major
role in improving the situation that the 
technology industry faces.
“A lot of the students that come to, for 
instance, CMU, the University of Pitts­
burgh, and those that come from outside 
the area probably come to get their edu­
cation here and then leave. It may be that 
it’s an insulatory society, so to speak, and 
I don’t use that in a derogatory sense. It’s 
just that the students work very hard, 
and they have little time for anything 
else,” said Lane. “[Another] reason may 
be that perhaps the companies here may 
not have done a good job in the past of 
interfacing with the students. I would 
not characterize that of all companies, 
but that may be one of the reasons.”
The Pittsburgh High Technology 
Council was created in early 1983 when 
several corporate leaders realized that 
the technology industry in Pittsburgh 
could use the support of an organization 
of this type. Its goals are therefore based 
around fostering the growth of technol­
ogy and modernization of manufactur­
ing industries in Pittsburgh in order 
increase their contributions to the re­
gional economy.
“What the council does for its mem­
bers is to provide technical, administra­
tive, and economic assistance to advance 
technological companies,” said Lane.
Today the Council is the largest re­
to keep graduates
gional trade association of its type in the 
country, with over 1,400 member counties 
in a 13-state region. According to Lane, 
there is a definite need for an organization 
of this kind in this part of the U.S.
‘The council and other economic devel­
opment agencies in the region have come 
to the realization that there is a human 
capital deficiency. Population [in Pitts­
burgh] has declined; population has be­
come older.... Our young population [be­
tween the ages of 21 and34J has declined. 
Studies show that that is the age that is 
typical of entrepreneurs. So in order to 
assist and help [develop] this region and 
to realize its full potential, one of the 
components is that we need to foster 
entrepreneurship. We need to help stu­
dents graduating from the colleges in 
this area understand that there are other 
opportunities out there,” said Lane.
Although the @pgh.cafe event, which 
was held at CMU last year for the first
said Lane.
Last year, 26 companies were present 
at the event, and over 350 students and 
faculty attended. This year, twice that 
many companies are expected.
“©pgh.cafe is focusing on the aspect 
that students at CMU and other places 
may not understand that Pittsburgh has 
become a critical mass, and students 
may not understand what cool new tech­
nology is out there from which to derive 
opportunities. We’re attempting to raise 
that awareness to get the students to 
interface with the people who ... have 
their hands in the work itself that’s 
being developed here,” said Lane.
“We realize that we cannot retain a 
large portion of graduates from a univer­
sity such as CMU, but we can do a better 
job of raising the students’ awareness of 
the cutting-edge technology companies and 
career opportunités that are available 
here,” said SBF Managing Director Jay
time, is one of the first initiatives that 
the Council has taken to further this 
specific cause, other organizations have 
made similar efforts. Lane points to the 
Pittsburgh Urban Magnet Project, or 
PUMP, which has had a hand in increas­
ing students’ interest in Pittsburgh.
“It’s another way to show young people 
that there is indeed a life off campus, and 
that there are significant attractions 
within the city ...just to get young people 
interested in knowing that there are, 
once again, attractions that make living, 
and socializing, and working and going to 
school in this region enjoyable,” said Lane.
The PittsburghHighTechnology Council’s 
own event, ©pgh.cafe, or At Pittsburgh Cafe, 
was held chiefly for the Computer Science 
department last year. It was organized by 
the Council’s Software Business Forum 
(SBF), to introduce CMU students to a 
portion of the 400-plus software companies 
here in southwestern Pennsylvania.
“We had an overflow of students who 
'were intersted in interfacing with people 
that actually do the work,” said Lane.
“This time it’s going to be opened 
up to a variety of other technology 
careers. It’s not going to be relegated 
to the Computer Science Department. 
So we expect a larger turnout from 
students and companies who want to 
come here and get their stories told,”
Douglass in a press release on the event.
Apparently, these opportunities rank 
Pittsburgh along with some of the 
country’s more well-known technologi­
cal centers. “In many ways, [Pittsburgh] 
is already very much like some of the 
other more highly visible cities in the 
technology arena. We sometimes fail to 
give ourselves credit for that which we 
have already achieved,” said Lane.
Although optimistic, Lane was hesi­
tant to make a definite statement re­
garding whether or not these recent ef­
forts have been successful.
“It’s too early to tell because the human 
capital initiative has only been recently 
identified. The first phase of the problem 
is to identify the problem, and now they’re 
beginning to put together steps to rectify 
that — ©pgh.cafe, PUMP, and some oth­
ers. So it’s too early to tell.... The Council 
is doing some research right now to see 
how we compare to other cities. We sus­
pect that we are right up there with those 
other cities,” said Lane.
“We’re doing what we think are the 
necessary steps, and that is to engender 
positive attitudes towards staying in 
the region.”
@pgh.cafe will be held in Rangos Hall 
on October 7, from 3-7 pm. Complimen­
tary food and beverages will be served. 
Casual dress is requested.

---------------------------------------------------

gnaoa
in.because you wouldn’t have it any other way
S
o the angst-ridden guy (let’s call him Bob) calls up 
this chick he digs so hardcore. He’s all, “hey babe, its 
Bob.” And she’s all “Bob, who’s Bob?” And he gets all 
angst-ridden, loses his nerve and hangs up the phone in 
one of those tragic scenes. The confused chick just goes 
on with her day, forgetting that Bob ever called. What a 
bummer for Bob. [More next week in Part 3!]
Dilbert'
by Scott AdamsDoonesbury
S& Ghm& Trudeau
X AtA /AORDAC THE 
REFUSER. I AIA HERE.
TO DISCU5S YOUR REQUEST 
FOR A COMPUTER 
UPGRADE.;
“It’s a vin-vln situation. I get rid of him, and “So your boyfriend wants to date other people. 
I get back control of the remote.”
“What's It mean vhcn a girl breaks up with her 
boyfriend and then invites you over for drinks?” 
“It means you’re eonna have a more excltine weekend 
than I am."

---------------------------------------------------

by Hiromi Hasegawa
The Tartan » Carnegie Mellon University • 22 September 1997
MoionrueC
He's II 
ALII!
>«i7i )^Y, Cl/IF SIGN OH 
tóat JYouK. poofU I THINK 
WR.ITE foMEPN& 
o TASTOHe* ON IT/
What the...
I thought he was 
V skewered! y
noftiné-fo 5fop emofi'ofla) psî/7 
life physical
pain, huhj
H•rn 6Phit mtntm‘tC Eum 6•hktnFthmt Qxultg paetnn &uxm ahUt rn WreerhUT 
&ux iuUt ¡EmuU EaLehaCT &ux’‘t Wmrllta h Sxai• uE nuaatln haC lmhLtCrtnT 
&ux Wthm l'L•ln haC uat uE l•unt Exaa& lx”lxn hmuxaC &uxm atik haC &ux’mt 
CthCT Cua’l Eree l•rn nFhitg H•haknT cuUrin Gx&g
IdI (LtIe^r •thm^a\,
‘I » -ffendinees N 
is piety mWabk
Yo TwiRP, HMD ME Y0 WAUEIHA! YOU'RE MESSING WITH 
AND I JU5T MIGHT NO |H~1HE WRONG GUV! THIS LITTLE SHRED YOU -ra PIECEM iiTWI IP'S ARMED WITH A PAINFUL -------------------^sWPOt Of MACE!!1.J~T
YFAH? AND I'M ARMED WITH 
ENOUGH ARSENAL TO TAKE nj)UT PERU J~
WELL;THAT'S GRANTED.MONE 
WHO UNDERGOES Wt APPENDIX OPERATION GETS A FEW CRAMPS 
AND SCARS HERE AND THERE'
NO APPENDIX OPERATION? 1 HEHEHE SILLY ME. WELL, WHO NEEDS AN APPEÄ/ ANYWAY??.. MW/J—
V~WMOïiiBS
Ca BREATHE £ |
‘t4p%. anyway? j=q
nmciMHE I BACk Hy 
BREATH sroyVJ08BLE/ < 
V0B81EJ
STAN! WHff HAPPENEtfO "<0U.^N T.YgU JUST H
'I WAS TRYING TO CfEND f J «Y AND LEAVE?? MYSELF FROM GtTTmfilMED, ¡fl THAT MONEY, HE'D ftl 1 SO HE SPWFOlM 8U ENOUGH ARSENAL TO IU ^ATTACKER WH ejATH TA E. OUT ANOTHER <^
SflY II small country) t
DEAR STAN*.ROSES ARE RED VIOLETS AREN'T BLUE TOO BAP I'M COLORBLIND BUT FOR THE GREEN I THANH YOU
- BRUTUS, THE ARMED so
lEi60
WHAT ABOUT QUEASINESS IN 
Mar kAdto/Tn
tusrvyc dvbipal
ÀTfÈEÌÌNG THAT TÌCRE'SV>5; SOMETHING STUCK W l(NC YOUR STOMACH? r' f
STAN, HOW'RE YOU MING?) 
JNY DIzÜNESSf)
DOC, WHAT EXACTLY ARE 
YOU TRYING TO VGET AT HERE?
The Higgledy-piggledy 
Comics Survey
RuWji'ta , A\f. 2.€<0. AWluifi-We want to know what you want to be split­
ting your side about in the comics section. So 
this is your chance! Send this handy-dandy 
clip-out survey to us via campus mail and let us 
know!.ftk
S eis;1. Which comics do you read regularly? (circle 
’em)
Carnegie Mellow
Dilbert
Doonesbury
Graniteville
Ilios
KidF
Non Sequitur 
Over the Hedge 
Peds
Robotman
Stickworld
Zeroman
1+ ¿ofy 4* a of ¿brçfAdivWKovi^A 5i^n c£ . ùr.'giivòAu, iv W«.S 5'^ Twt.2. What comics would you like to be reading 
regularly?
,3«>t+he
<5olv+]onsend to:Fa1\ . Tl\t iaxSon of cky^<
Comics Guy
The Tartan 
Box 17

---------------------------------------------------

S me ^ 
i.. _
. 0 y/orW
,. . . _ 0i ScW'Jrn'aer9er'' " , Geoscience-
OwO«'*' ° "“'°fce wrote»» teJ“« ”' o«t
'«* ’”F re» r> «' °“J 901T 
frf«** " „„»* *¦ » - „^re «-
réservons. ^ ^ dritte-
^Ht66 gforyou-Wo^^00'^I
Geo®“"' „.¡„„»tor/-“*
jesoroete* GeoOues' Recn),*'t'®
Tvioe S»'«1700 
55WS‘»'f*!^056.î7MaP*aiB
CAREER FAIR 
SEPT. 25
INRI, Inc.
See us at the Technical Opportunities 
Conference (TOC) if you are 
interested in exciting computer 
software development work. INRI is 
seeking full time employees and 
interns to work in Reston, Newport 
News, and Chesapeake, Virginid; in 
Austin, Texas, and in Sail Diegp, 
California.
SOFTWARE ENGINEERS (BSlfMS in CS/EE
• Procter & Gamble is recognized as a world leader in product innovation and development, provic 
global information solutions for over 90,000 employees in more than 26 countries. We have full-time anf 
summercareer opportunities in Product Development. Purchases. Engineering. Manufacturing, and
IhahLtUtal 6&nltUnT
• We are recruiting Carnegie Mellon students in the following majors: IDS, CS, CE, EE, ME, ChemE, IM; ! 
Operations Research, Math/Stats, Econ, and PhDs in Chemistry and Biology.
• Come visit the P&G booth at the TOC on September 25 and the BOC on September 26.

---------------------------------------------------

Cal Cender . senrlifl olmcr DrfvlnLfdg F uu SlpdltTln HEEA
by Jim Meddick
ÿI“W fDOpCl ?h/WTOB.X
sas
VI p p iCMl2leC
,'mÂ nYFp1asmm. .
NftNO.ÏT'S TOE MNSENSE LYRIC! WT'S TVE HOW! SO I SOT A BRAINSTORM ¦ WHY NOT WRÍTE A sows OF 100?» NONSENSE tWOS?'..IT S1YES TUE- PEOPLE WHAT THEY W PLUS IT'S i EASIER TO THINK UP RHYMES' .
h&77i siERyL* \<fri $BNG"ZORPA¦ï V '-V 3 ""»w rooow ;
TELL Nl£: WHATS THE BEST PART OF SONSS, LIKE "7\P-A-PEE-K»-DAH, ’SUSSUWO" WO "OOIA ---
/THE®a V Uy zfA ENDING.
£EE?
I ToLD You 
THERE Wté 
WoPE FoR 
THE FUTURE..
HI, \ EVERYONE 
WRE LOOKING 
6EA0TIFUU TONIGHT. i
w?w.
„ RNV9V 
]VEI?5H1
1 I HOPEyou vis wf FIRST SONG. IT'S CM.LÈP S® ’IORPA
YMl TO0UYjgSF POODLV
pv W."
70RPA TOOLY POOPLV * PA, UNHA SHNORKA PLORKÂ CHA...DUN6I iíMONSI oRFU Po...n
MPAREtiîlX, ÎORPA TDOLV PCODLY PA" TRANSLATES INTO” AN OFFENSIVE Vf^i ACT ÍNMOLMIN& A Vv:vv ¿iL TURA1d AUYHANR 
1 CTT'sfffi^tAUN'S0W1AN-
YKNoW, AFTER A 
WUILE, YOU'D THINK 
ONE oF TI4EW
RJiuS fPMfa Jl
To WUY THEIR 
SECTION IS NEXT 
To TUE KITCHEN...
WllSX 9-16
©1997 Wiley Miller dist. by Washington Pojt Writers OroupWEI SITE: http://www.wlleytoons.com E-mail: wllevewileYtoons.com
PRETTY SOON WE,TOO,IMU. BE ENTERTAINS* BY WE CLEUE^CUTE, HEARTWARMING WITTICISMS OF THE ANIMAL KINGDOM...
~~TaVICK.^N
V IfETCH 71,5«“TÏÏCl NEISHBoffS _\AJ\J,r/\ TA&BY,
/fa 2 7) n"WIMKLES!'
I S Wé L A anolcts$3 TEST IT
rerX, yiwsmuretHwSUCCESSFUL V TWS "POUTUE DEVICE”-. COMIC STRIP MEEDS TALKING W1HLS. A
HELIO,WINKLES, 
HWJ ARE YOU 
>. TODAY? /
1 PlNS-PoHfe 
WLUfW&Wte 9ALL..CHASE fW&-foN&L BAU..-TVNA-TRKUSLKTES, 
MUMM. IAN&VAQ>ES> INTO PLWM VENGUSW.
¦WjjU, 
<l¥S?ïvrpeg3
\VI1=K
KU, FINALLY! V1,6 HM> Alt S£&,R0B0TIW4?t ATTWOWE WHAT oro h LEFT LES 
vXteu,- sot
í'tA NOT GMNa VJ?. \/ HAME X W SOMEWHERE THERE X TOO) YOU AWT HAS TO 66 AH ANIMAL. THE TIME I WITH SOMETHING , / MET SPEAKER WORTHWHILE TO SAV-/ OP THE HOUSE
Raf / \TcwY... ITCHY- X FAtE tt.ROWY, VfOFJ VWrt.TM.... JYOOR'DOUTTIE 
iW\\Tcm TAIL... I DSUICE’ (SN'T 
KLW6BIN& -me ANMAL 
'rf, \ REPARTEE, w
aJ—rS FoR...
IT iEEMS To 
WE TUAT BEING 
/V YK-fAAN 
U6ED To BE A 
bYH bC. 
TYR5AHIHIhAuuu
rhsat
’ WDDWPCe^bün’yYON ’KCElXER WAS C.ROSS-UJIREB. YcU WERE PICKING UP An EPISODE OF"THE L NOONS ANJD THE ) fV, restless." /
I'VE always\uwi,wto iav wlittle 
j!‘I»NyN‘ / Device,” i »oI uvis ‘wfF 
what A—.. , -UHDERUES \GÜNTER'S L
â
3Uff ¿ISOUHDTOU6H,6(irPEeP Z&f , { WNN W SCABEp. TT'S «iv!?-v ? ALL s 6IS AO-TlO covermt,h C Xduc­cXfubipb-­hg\ NEED LOVE. I NEED 
W>ífc \í¿ A HUS...
YEAH, BUT
yYO’hA oYH HY
ADMIT TW 
IT’6 WORE 
ACCUEME TLW 
”PET iUoP’...
TIA THROVllNe OUT (AI wDF-^H1C cCEf2o’uu f BCC ElF 5YIVH IN mNSLATING AfetAA1 bWgB-W"CBHWereErbB tiRE STUPID, BORIN \C0NVERSStlONAUSTS.:. ____
AlAS,NCPE&HP6NCE.0E S/So TRUE, \ 
THE WASTEFUL,SUPERFVCIN,, 5 iOHATUAN 1 
DrePOS^B^.& CULTURE THESE 5 LWIN5ST0H, S 
, HU1AANS WALLOW IW- A SO TRUE. J
^^vvvvWvww^1«, InBeegelUGHO/5
fchfPR
I TRUST,
M£. JoUM^ToM, 
• TUKT-YOU’LL 
- BE ^BLE To 
JUSTIFY YOUR 
EXISTENCE 
\ K LITTLE 
\ BETTER JUm 
\ hAR. SMITW 
WERE...
Vll=K
by Michael Fry & T. Lewis
r APPARENTLY 1 THERE’VE BEEN SOME TECHNOLOGICAL ADVANCES SINCE MV LAST VISIT. .
10\M>0 LOOK PALE...HAVE YOU BEEN GETTING ENOUGH VELVEETA?
hm.:. ' •;¦IT MAV BE i TIME FOR A REFRESHER COURSE.
'I’M NOT SCORING WITH THE CHICKS LIKE I USED TO.
HOW Y A HAN6IN’, KENOSABE?
RO...I HAVEN’T HAP A WORRY ALL PA Y.
SOMETHING'S . WRCHÔ.I’M POSITIVELY UPLIFTED/YOU'RE LOSING THE OL* CHARM.
I EVEN HAD A KIND THOUGHT FOR DAVID CARUSO ON HIS RETURN TO TELEVISION.TlS
l*wi
www.hedgeweb.com
.CH YEAH?/ WHATS THE MOST PRESSING CONCERN IN YOUR LIFE IN THE NEXT TEN SECONDS?
YOU KNOW, NORMALLY I DON'T LIKE THESMELL OF MILDEW, BUT ON YOU...ITS ONLY SLIGHTLY NAUSEATING.
EVER SINCE YOU STOPPED WORRYING,I’VE HAD TO TAKE 0V£J?...UE'\1E SWITCHEP PLACES.
' +J~ THAT’S RIDICULOUSX^-Y fret-boy...
' W* V .^v
I CAN’T HEAR YOU...THE LEn HEMISPHERE OF MY BRAIN IS ON HIATUS UNTIL FALL.
HOW DO YOU D05UITS NICE TO MEET YOU... YOU HAVE THE MOST AMAZING EAR ' - TUFTS...
HEY, VERNE CAN TAKEA COMPLIMENT.
WHAT?THAT'S MY MISSION STATEMENT//
TO EXCITE AS FEW NEURONS AS POSSIBLE.
www.hedgeweb.corn•www.hedgeweb.com
NEXT ON‘THE IMPENDING^) DOOMCHANNa“: BELLY- BUTTON UNT CAUSES CHAFM IN WOOP TICKS'
I CAN'T S TANP THIS/ GIVE ME BACK MY OLD WORRY-FREE LIFE/
THEY ARE7/OH,TOOBAD...THEY'REALMOSTGONE.
VERNE, I HEARD VELMA SAY SHE FOUND THOSE WORRY LINES AROUND YOUR FACE SEXY.
BOOTY-SLAP...
BOOTY-SLAP...
EVERYONE IGNORE RJ.STEP BALL- CHANGE...' \STEP B ALL­CHANGE...
wsity$&m%BALLROOM W DANCING REQUIRES ¦ POISE ANDBrirngcooo p
...EVERYONE^WATCH RJ! J
' rtANDS"FISHY-Y OFF...I’VE GILLS’?! TRAPE- X, ^MARKED IT.
FISHY- GILL'S1 AIN'T SWITCHING, I’M PERFECTLY HAPPY BEIN6 PERFECTLY HAPPY.
( ITS TRUE...WOMEN ' AFEnORi IMPORTANT l THAN PERSONAL . V HAPPINESS... y
^ 20

---------------------------------------------------

information technology training program
information session
Monday. September 29th. 
7:00PM-9:00PM 
Porter Hall. Room 226A 
Bring copies of your resume, 
dress casual.Refreshments 
will be served.
interviews
Tuesday. September 30th 
Career Center
technolog j^^Jthebusiness,
Helping Industry 
Help the World
It takes a lot to satisfy the needs of five billion 
people. The world’s manufacturers meet that 
challenge by relying on advanced processes — 
automated processes, that turn out food, paper, 
automobiles, pharmaceuticals and thousands of 
other products every day.
Rockwell Automation works with these indus­
tries to keep the world’s factories running at top 
production. We do it by supplying more that 
500,000 automation products from four top 
brands. And by maintaining an expansive global 
network of professionals providing training, 
service and sales assistance.
That kind of customer commitment means 
we’re always looking for more good people. To 
learn about the challenging career opportunités 
at Rockwell Automation, visit our web page, or 
contact your campus placement office.
www.ra.rockwell.com/careers/college
V Rockwell Automation
MORGAN STANLEY
At Morgan Stanley, Information Technology is the foundation of our business. 
Caed,L Iag dafL glen e4crlM Il,vl frvlLdlU tcnl daer yA'w tf44fcr cr dl1arc4cig
that drives our businesses day to day. We know that technology gives us our competitive edge. That 
the future winners in our business will be the frontrunners in technology. If you want to build 
your IT career on a solid foundation, there's no where to go but up at Morgan Stanley.
we're looking for all majors who are interested in solving 
business problems through technology. Stop by and meet our hiring managers.
Learn first-hand about our intensive 16-week training program. It's the 
top training program on the street.
If you're unable to attend, but want to know 
more about a career in technology at Morgan Stanley, 
contact us directly at: Morgan Stanley,
Information Technology College Recruit­
ment, Department CMU929, 750 
Seventh Avenue, 15th Floor,
New York, NY 10019.
REUANCEUW
ELECTFtlCMO
DO$GE
ROCKWELLSOFTWARE

---------------------------------------------------

DIVERSIONS
By ROB PUNKUNUS
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
;Be careful what you wish for! This 
is the idea that Wishmaster, the lat­
est movie from Wes Craven, is cen­
tered around. In this movie, Craven, 
whose accolades include Scream and 
A Nightmare on Elm Street, brings a 
new monster to the screen: DJINN 
(pronounced “jin”).
Film: Wishmaster 
Director: Robert Kurtzman 
| Company: Live Entertainment
. DJINN is a genie who grants wishes, 
bUthe is nothing like the genie in Aladdin. 
He grants wishes because that is the only 
way he can use his powers, and none of 
his wishes are granted in the way the 
person making the wish expects. When 
one; character asks for eternal beauty, 
DJINN turns her into/a mannequin.
Despite the novel monster, Wishmaster 
does not stand out as an extraordinary 
horror movie. First of all, it does not 
scare the audience. There were parts in 
the movie where the director meant to 
elicit screams from the audience, but 
they fail to draw any reaction.
Wishmaster’s plot is typical of other 
horror movies. There is a monster. The 
monster kills people. The only person 
who knows about the monster is the 
main character, and nobody believes 
her. And that is Wishmaster3s plot.
The main character, Alexandra The audience also finds out that she 
Amberson (who is played by Tammy has gone through therapy to overcome 
Lauren), battles DJINN after acciden- the pain of seeing the fire that killed her 
tally releasing him from his imprison- parents. This leads to problems because 
ment in a gem. To complicate matters, whenever DJINN kills someone, she sees 
since Amberson
-V v: ?..r6h*T” 2 ¦
released 
DJINN, he 
must grant her 
three wishes 
because after 
doing this he 
can unleash an 
army of DJINN 
(DJINN is both 
singular and 
plural) on the 
Earth.
After his re­
lease, DJINN 
embarks on a 
murderous 
search through 
the city for 
Alexandra. At 
this time, the 
audience gets a 
glimpse of 
Alexandra’s per­
sonal life. They~ , ,.i,i courtesy of Live Entertainmentfind out that sheis the coach of a DJ,NN’ a new mov,e monster from Wes Craven, grants evil wishes in Wishmaster.
girls’ basketball team. In one scene, she the murder as a flashback. When she 
tells the team that they have to achieve a starts having these flashbacks, pth- 
mental state called “stillness” in order to ers suggest that they might be related 
be successful. It is painfully obvious that to * her previous problems, but she 
she will use “stillness” against DJINN. knows better. Alexandra becomes de'
termined to stop DJINN.
There are some interesting aspects of 
this movie that set it apart from other 
horror movies. For instance, the main char­
acter is not portrayed as a woman who 
nee ds to be protected by 
a man. Instead of spend­
ing the whole movie 
screaming, she accepts 
her situation and fights 
DJINN.
The special effects 
in Wishmaster are 
above average. Direc­
tor Robert Kurtzman, 
who created special ef­
fects for Spawn and 
Men In Black, makes 
the scenes in this 
movie seem very real 
except in certain 
scenes where DJINN 
looks more like a turtle 
standing on two legs 
than an evil genie.
Wishmaster is a de­
cent horror movie. It is 
not the best I have seen, 
but it is not the worst 
either. One thing’s for 
sure, audiences will be 
seeing more of DJINN. 
The ending was the perfect setup for a 
sequel. And knowing all the sequels Wes 
Craven made to A Nightmare on Elm 
Street, it will be no surprise when 
Wishmaster II hits the theaters.
main character, and nobody believes . be successful. It is painfully obvious that to her previous problems, but she Street, it will be no surprise wher 
her. And that is Wishmaster3s plot. she will use “stillness” against DJINN. knows better. Alexandra becomes de- Wishmaster II hits the theaters.Novel proves too complex for big screen
By KATY HARRIS . ters. In a spur-of-the-moment decision, gether for four generations begin to un- man who comes back home after 1 c
Tartan Junior Staffwriter Larry proposes that he split the land ravel, releasing the hatred, iealousy, vears to serve as a catalyst in the CooL
By KATY HARRIS
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
A Thousand Acres is a novel that should 
not have been made into a movie. Jane 
Smiley’s Pulitzer prize-winning novel of 
the same name is too complex to success­
fully compress it all into a 104-minute 
film. Yet, the effort by director Jocelyn 
Moorhouse is an enjoyable attempt to 
pprtray the story’s key elements.
Film: A Thousand Acres 
Director: Jocelyn Moorhouse 
Company: Buena Vista Pictures
The production of A Thousand Acres 
brought together several bright stars of 
the film industry in addition to 
Moorhouse, whose previous directing 
experience includes How to Make an 
American Quilt and Muriel's Wedding. 
Laura Jones, known for her work on 
Portrait of a Lady, wrote the screenplay 
. for the film. Bringing the movie to life 
with music was The Rocky Horror Pic- 
ture Show’s Richard Hartley. Ruth Myers, 
who won an Oscar for her costume design 
: m Emma, contributed to the project, in 
addition to producers from the Beacon 
and Propaganda film companies.
The focal point of A Thousand Acres is 
the isolated world of Zebulon County, 
Io\va, where Larry Cook (JasonRobards) 
i owns the most substantial farm in the 
: area, 1000 acres, with his three daugh­
ters. In a spur-of-the-moment decision. 
Larry proposes that he split the land 
and the assets of the farm into thirds 
among Ginny (Jessica Lange), Rose 
(Michelle Pfeiffer), and Caroline (Jenni­
fer Jason Leigh).
The movie centers on the relationship 
between Ginny and Rose, Larry’s two 
eldest daughters. Growing up mother­
less, the two endured the controlling, 
often abusive, nature of their father as a 
“united front.” As Larry’s power ebbs 
away with the signing of the farm trans­
fer papers, Ginny and Rose begin to 
confront the bitter emotions and memo­
ries that surface as a result. In the 
following aftermath, the seemingly close 
family ties that have bound them to-
Jessica Lange and Michelle Pfeiffer star 
part of their father’s farm in A Thousand
gether for four generations begin to un­
ravel, releasing the hatred, jealousy, 
fear, and resentment that have been 
buried for so long.
A cast of seasoned actresses supports 
this intense scenario. Pfeiffer is in fine 
form as the angry, bitter Rose, although 
her development of the character in the 
beginning is a little shaky. Lange is also 
well cast as Rose’s painfully indecisive 
and meek sister Ginny.
The men in the film, however, seem to 
fall short of their characters’ potential. 
Jason Robards is unconvincing as the 
hardheaded, angry, and self-righteous 
character of Larry Cook; rather, he comes 
off as a “dirty old man” who deteriorates 
rapidly during the movie. Perhaps the 
most disappoint­
ing character in A 
Thousand Acres is 
British actor Colin 
Firth of The En­
glish Patient apd 
BBC’s Pride and 
Prejudice. A com­
bination of a dry 
script and cold act­
ing on Firth’s part 
make the charac­
ter of Jess Clark a 
pale shadow of 
what Smiley cre­
ated him to be — a 
dynamic, power­
fully emotional
©ATA Rims, Inc 
as sisters who inherit 
Acres.
man who comes back home after 13 
years to serve as a catalyst in the Cook 
family’s breakup.
The visual images and cinematogra­
phy in A Thousand Acres are definite 
Oscar material. In creating the setting 
of Zebulon County, Iowa, Moorhouse 
strove to recreate the immense space of 
the Cook farm, which she describes as 
“visually both claustrophobic and very 
serene and expansive, which is an in­
teresting contrast.” The movie opens 
with several compelling images depict­
ing this duality.
On the whole, the screenplay for the 
movie, written by Laura Jones, does not 
stray too far from' the original novel by 
Smiley. Jones did, however, condense 
the plot into a crippled version of the 
original. The original book contains 
countless themes and undercurrents that 
are essential to the meaning of the story. 
The removal of these leaves huge gaps in 
the plot and in viewers’ comprehension. 
Thus, although all of the main elements 
of the novel are present, the sad truth is 
that the viewer leaves the cinema hav­
ing only .scratched the surface of a story 
that is, ironically, about digging deeply 
into life.
This detraction does have a positive 
side effect. The movie leaves viewers 
with a curious urge to read Jane Smiley’s 
book in order to understand the ideas 
expressed in the movie — which may 
have been the purpose all along.
By GREG MARCKS
Tartan Staffwriter
Director Curtis Hanson, who 
helped adapt this James Ellroy 
novel to the screen, does an ex­
cellent job of pacing this intrigu­
ing and complex mystery set in 
L.A. during the 1950s. Add the 
visual style of Dante Spinotti, 
director of photography for Heat, 
and this film becomes an irre­
sistible crime drama.
Film: L.A. Confidential 
Director: Curtis Hanson 
Company: Warner BrothersFilm: In and Out 
Director: Frank Oz 
Company:Paramount 
Pictures
Volume 92, Issue 4The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania22 September 1997Film explores corruptionMovie makes man gay
Audiences leave movie wishing for more
James Mojonnier/Tartan Art Staff
Interestingly, there are no 
clear-cut heroes in this tale, and 
several of the major roles are 
played by lesser-known players. 
Kim Basinger plays a prostitute 
who looks like actress Veronica 
Lake, and Danny DeVito plays a 
sleazy tabloid writer, but both 
are relatively minor characters 
in a story that seems to have as 
its protagonist the entire Los 
Angeles Police Department.
The cops are narcotics detec­
tive Jack Vincennes (played by
©1997 Monarchy Enterprises B.V. 
Russell Crowe and Guy Pearce star in L.A. Confidential.
kid on the block, Detective Lt. Ed 
Exley, played by Guy Pearce II. 
The station is run by Irishman 
Dudley Smith, played by none
A brutal slaying of six people 
takes place in the Nite Owl 
Diner, and three young black 
Please see L.A., page L15
Kevin Spacey), loose cannon Bud other than James Cromwell in 
White (exceptionally portrayed a very different role from the 
by Russell Crowe) and the new farmer in Babe.
In and Out places Howard in the 
unfortunate situation of being the 
only one who doesn’t realize his 
behavior is unusual. So, he is un­
derstandably surprised when he’s 
“outed” to most of America by 
former student Cameron Drake 
(Matt Dillon) af the Oscars. This 
announcement comes at a particu­
larly bad time, as Howard is plan­
ning on marrying his long-term
By EMILY LANDES
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Everyone has always known 
that high school English teacher 
Howard Brackett (Kevin Kline) 
was a little, you know, “prissy.” 
It’s not anything definable, just 
little things like the way he uses 
a napkin, rides that bike, and 
reads poetry and Shakespeare 
and stuff like that. In a small 
midwestern town like Greenleaf, 
Indiana, these things aren’t bad; 
they just stand out.
fiancée, Emily (Joan Cusack), in questions his own manhood. At 
a matter of days. It’s a wedding school, he is accosted by nosy 
that’s been three years in the reporters who want to know 
waiting. Howard’s mother how he feels about important 
(Debbie Reynolds) is none too issues like, “Should gays be al- 
happy about the recent develop- lowed to handle fresh produce?”
© 1997 Paramount Pictures
Howard (Kevin Kline) and his fiancée (Joan Cusack) learn that he is 
gay while watching the Oscars one night.
ment. “I need this wedding,” she and “Should there be gays in the 
tells him, “It’s like heroin.” space program?”
But now Howard’s life is un- After a while, these reporters 
der siege, and even the wedding get their story and leave. But Pe­
is up in the air. At home, he Please see IN, page L14

---------------------------------------------------

Aerotech manufactures highly advanced precision positioning 
mechanics, motors, drives, motion controllers and software 
used in leading edge manufacturing, testing and G O P 
applications around the globe. We are a dynamic and growing 
technology-based company and are currently seeking highly 
motivated engineering professionals to join our Positioning 
Systems Division. Candidates should have an interest in 
designing hardware, software, or mechanics, for a diverse, state of the art product.
MECHANICAL DESIGN ENGINEER
Requirements includea BS or MS degree in mechanical engineering. Candidates should be 
proficient in the use of CAD software and experienced in machine design.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEER
Requirements include a BS or MS degree in electrical engineering. Candidates should have 
experience with microprocessors, DSPSs, or power electronics. The ability to prgram in C and 
Visual BASIC for Windows 95/NT id required. Hardware design experience preferred.
APPLICATIONS ENGINEER
Requirements include a BSEE or BSME and prior applications engineering experience. The 
selected candidate will assist in the application of the positioning systems product line through 
direct interface with the customer base, global sales force and in-house engineering staff.
Aerotech provides an outstanding compensation and benefit package which includes:
• stock ownership, profit sharing, and 401(K)
• medical, dental, vision, and life insurance
• tuition reimbursement program
If you are a highly motivated engineer with a desire for career growth, submit resume, QPA and 
salary requirements to:
Aerotech, Inc.
101 Zeta Drive 
Pittsburgh, PA 15238\
Attn: Human Resources
or E-mail at Ktaylor@aerotechinc.com
Präsentation
Morgan means more 
career opportunities
Jg1g IumLha rn h ethCraL LeuShe Erahairhe ErmU l•hl Fmu‘rCtn nlmhltLri 
hC‘ritT mhrntn ihFrlheT lmhCtn Erahairhe ranlmxUtalnT haC UhahLtn hnntln 
Eum iumFumhlruanT Lu‘tmaUtalnT Erahairhe ranlrlxlruanT haC Fmr‘hlt iertalng
1ethnt Feha lu hlltaC uxm raEumUhlrua Fmtntalhlrua Eum 
chmatLrt Iteeua nlxCtaln raltmtnltC ra
Ialtmahe cuanxelraL 6tm‘ritn
H•xmnCh&T 6tFltUStm 25 
,200 ” 9200 FU 
IxCLt LuxaLt
oee Uhjumn WteiuUt
JP Morgan
www.jpmorgan.com
J.P. Morgan is an equal opportunity employer.
A benefit performance for the School of Drama featuring “L.A. Law’s” most 
celebrated couple, Michael Tucker (A’66) and his wife, Jill Eikenberry.
October 3-4,1997 
McConomy Auditorium
University Center
Call 268-2407 or visit the Drama Box Office 
I in the College of Fine Arts.
Tuesday-Friday noon to 5 p.m.
Friday, October 3 at 8 pm
• VIP Seats @ $50 each
• Carnegie Mellon Faculty, Staff (2 per ID) or Drama Subscriber @ $20 each
• Carnegie Mellon Students @ $5 each (with valid student ID)
underwritten in part by the Division of Student Affairs
Saturday, October 4 at 8 pm
• VIP Seats @ $100 each (includes post-play reception
with Michael Tucker & Jill Eikenberry)
• Carnegie Mellon Faculty, Staff (2 per ID) or Drama Subscriber @ $20 each
• Carnegie Mellon Students @ $5 each (with valid student ID)
underwritten in part by the Division of Student Affairs
1THICON
a company
ETHICON, INC., a Johnson &
Johnson Company, will be conducting 
on-campus interviews on Thursday, 
October 9th for the following positions:
Packaging Engineer 
Planning Analyst
The resume deadline is September 22nd.
Your Folks Are Coming For 
The Weekend? Not A Problem.
They Can Stay With Us. We have an unbeat­
able location with romantic river and skyline views, room service and a health club.
I We'll give your parents everything they want In a holel al this very special 
Student/Faculty Rate; so they won't spend so much time worrying about 
I you. ..or your friends...or your place. For reservations, call your professional 
travel agent, 1-8OO-HILTONS or the Pittsburgh Hilton and Towers at 412-391-4600. Ask 
for the Collegiate Rate.
Pittsburgh
Gateway Center 
Pittsburgh, PA 15222 
412-391-4600
and Towers
lwww.hilion.com I Offer valid for stays through 12/30/97. Limited availability. Advance reservations required. Rate does not include tax or gratuities and does 
not apply lo meetings, conventions, groups or other promotional olTers and is subject to change without notice. The Hilton logo and logotype are registered trademarks of Hilton Hotels Corporation. 01997 Hilton Hotels.
WEACPTC MA USXRJT 
oCJhEAC WPTnMJACT
Roberto C. Michienzi, D.M.D 
in association with 
Alfonso A. Costa, D.M.D.
1-800-349-1108
Services available: emergencies, bleaching, fillings, crowns, 
bridges, root canals, consults, bonding, gum treatment, cleaning, 
retainers and wisdom teeth extraction.
Must present current student ID. New patients only.
All insurances accepted.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 22 September 1997L13
CD proves cruel to listener
By CHARLES FRYMAN
Tartan Staffwriter
Cruel Timothy’s debut re­
lease, Rules of Thumb for the 
Molested, demonstrates that 
Cruel Timothy is not just a 
clever name. This album leaves 
you begging for mercy. Cruel 
Tim’s lyrics and vocal stylings 
are trying to be overly deep and 
emotional, and the music isn’t 
much better.
this trite song about youth and 
old age on a high school ski trip. 
It’s hard to believe that he 
isn’t joking.
While the lyrics remain lame
This song’s got a kind of plan­
etary sound that grows on you.
“Carolyne My Baby” is the 
one high point of the album. 
Cruel Timothy leaves social
Artist: Cruel Timothy 
Album: Rules of Thumb 
for the Molested 
Label: Pandemonium
Nothing really impresses me 
about this album. Not even Cruel 
Timothy’s overuse of the f-word. In 
this respect he seems a little like a 
14-year-old who is still trying to 
impress people by swearing.
Along these lines, he also brags 
about being drunk. In describing 
the recording of the song “You 
Had a Man,” Cruel Timothy said, 
“I was so shitfaced I could barely 
stand.” Maybe this is the reason 
that part of the song’s lyrics are, 
'‘Let’s get naked and marry.” No 
one could sing that song while 
sober.
“Aileen”'is supposedly the 
beautiful love song on Rules of 
Thumb for the Molested. I’ve 
heard better love songs by Biz 
Markie. Cruel Tim uses a silly 
quavering voice for most of the 
song, while the bridge is totally 
hard rock. If I were Aileen, I 
would be pretty ticked-off.
The album finishes with some­
thing like a ballad off a Kansas 
record. Cruel Timothy sings 
“The Wisdom Cries” with true 
feeling and heart, but he wrote
©1997 Lorraine Day/Cruel Timothy 
Cruel Timothy has nothing but lame lyrics under that hat of his.
throughout the album, the music 
has its moments. Cruel 
Timothy, Rusty Anderson, and 
Paul Bushnell, the album’s pro­
ducer, all handle guitar, with 
Bushnell doing most of the bass 
work. Josh Freese on drums and 
Jan Pomerans on keyboards 
round out the somewhat 
talented instrumentalists.
“Give It Love” has some catchy 
guitar hooks in the forefront with 
Timothy’s vocals taking a back 
seat. Maybe it’s only because I 
can’t hear the vocals, but I think 
this song is all right.
“Swing to the Left” is another 
song without much of Tim’s 
crummy lyrics and a lot of good 
guitar, percussion, and keyboard.
commentary and esoteric po­
etry behind in favor of a pure 
pop feel. Tim sings some 
good old happy love lyrics to 
a tune reminiscent of the 
Connells. “Carolyne My 
Baby” is probably the only 
song I’ll listen to again off 
the album.
The few bright spots on 
this release hardly merit 
purchasing Rules of Thumb 
for the Molested. I do give 
credit to Cruel Timothy for 
writing songs with personal 
meaning to him; I just wish 
that they could have been 
good songs. So in response 
to his debut album I say, 
“Please, Tim, don’t be cruel.”
Reggae meets R&B on CD
By PALAK SHAH
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The age-old phrase “give it a 
chance” holds true when listen­
ing to the sophomore effort of 
Born Jamericans’ Yardcore. 
Once given a chance, it begins 
to grow on you like some sort of 
leech; you’re caught in the beat 
and find your head nodding in 
approval to the hip-hop and your 
body crying to dance to the 
reggae lyrics.
the rest of the album. Although 
Mad Lion is infamous for his 
reggae-style rap, he simply joins 
in a symphony of reggae artists, 
singing about past memories. 
This is one of the only songs on
Mr. Notch’s reggae-style R&B vo­
cals. Even DJ Edley whips up 
some rap to accent the song be­
tween the verses.
Johnny Osbourne makes “State 
of Shock IV” an excellent song.
¦Who: Born Jamericans 
?What: Yardcore 
(Company: Delicious Vinyl
Mr. Notch and DJ Edley Shine 
have brewed up a nice blend of 
hardcore bump in the jeep-type 
beats, supported by a blend of six 
reggae and four R&B songs.
The duo combine brilliantly 
and leave you wondering why 
you haven’t heard them before. 
Mr. Notch’s vocals remind me of 
Shai in “If I Ever Fall In Love.” 
Most albums have the same old 
background beat, but DJ Shine 
mixes up a different “sound” be­
hind every track. The lyrics in 
the reggae songs are not terri­
bly hardcore, as most reggae 
albums tend to be, and the 
rhythm is easily picked up, even 
for those of us who are not too 
fond of reggae. Famous acts like 
Mad Lion, Sleepy Wonder, 
Johnny Osbourne, and 
Shinehead are featured on a 
couple of the songs.
I was quite disappointed by the 
song “Gotta Get Mine.” It fea­
tures Mad Lion, Sleepy Wonder, 
and Shinehead, but lacks any sort 
of the hip-hop/reggae/R&B ap­
peal which is found throughout
courtesy of Delicious Vinyl 
Born Jamericans add a reggae flavor to their hip-hop beats.
the album that contains hardcore 
reggae lyrics. Without the beats 
of DJ Edley, I find this song to be 
reminiscent of classic reggae 
songs and lacking the popular 
hip-hop appeal.
“Yardcore,” the song behind the 
title, contains a killer mix of all 
three aspects of this album: 
reggae, hip-hop, and R&B. Un­
like “Gotta Get Mine,” this song 
exemplifies what the album is 
about. Reggae lyrics are sup­
ported by hip-hop beats and R&B 
vocals. Most of us will enjoy the 
song for the strong instrumental 
support in the background and
He has a classical voice with a 
relatively slow tempo so that; 
those of us who are not from the; 
Caribbean can actually under­
stand the lyrics. For those who 
don’t know the artist Johnny; 
Osbourne, he is one of the better , 
reggae artists of our time. Natu-; 
rally, the song discusses women; 
the artists have encountered over; 
the years who were of particular; 
interest to them.
F or any of the D J s out there, I’d; 
buy the album for the beats. If 
you like the album, you can catch; 
Born Jamericans at a local club,; 
Graffiti, on September 27.
Artist uses Native American beats
By ANDREW FRANCIS
Tartan Staffwriter
In today’s modern music culture, fresh 
musical ideas seem like a thing from the 
past, from Oasis’ recycled Beatles mate­
rial to the clichéd alternative rock of 
bands like Third Eye Blind. However, 
Mirabal, the debut CD from Robert 
Mirabal, injects a little creativity into 
the music scene.
/il Artist: Mirabal
(jg|n Title: Mirabal
Label: Warner Western
His sound is a musical stew of mod­
ern guitar rock and southwestern Na­
tive American music. Mirabal himself 
is a product of the southwestern Native 
American culture and he uses his wide- 
ranging knowledge of both the sounds 
and rhythms of His people and modern 
rock and roll to create a fusion that is 
much different from either. 
~ThroiighoutMzra6aZ, he juxtaposes dis­
tinctive elements from each of his styles. 
What makes the album a good listen, 
however, is how Mirabal seamlessly 
blends several different musical ideas in 
each song, each of which contributes to 
the overall effect. On tracks such as “Hope” 
and “Cyberspace Warrior,” he powers 
standard rock melodies with voices and 
rhythms that fit into the song as easily as 
modern instruments would.
On other cuts, such as “The Dance” 
and “Little Indians,” Mirabal aims for 
çiçire depth and poignancy in his writing 
wjlile maintaining his alternative rock 
¿Visibilities.
; '£he lyrical message of Mirabal is what 
one would expect — Mirabal deals with 
tKemes such as pride in his culture, hope
for the future, and longing for the past. 
Thankfully, he avoids being too political 
and insistent uponhis ideals, something 
that would probably have detracted from 
his songs.
©1997 Warner Bros. Records 
Robert Mirabal looks to his heritage for much of his material.
Occasionally he sings in his native 
tongue, something that usually adds 
little value to the song, but is still enjoy­
able to hear. Rarely do his vocals become 
unpleasant, and they accompany his 
tunes well. The entire musical picture
— when the pieces of a song fit together 
to create a satisfying whole—is Mirabal 
at his best.
The album is by no means perfect, 
though. Sometimes Mirabal veers 
from the rock and 
roll foundation of 
his best tunes, 
choosing to em­
ploy southwest­
ern style music, 
which is an ac­
quired taste at 
best. In addition, 
the overindul- 
gent, 10-minute- 
long “Tony and 
Allison” is a how- 
not-to exercise in 
songwriting and 
should probably 
have been left off.
Nevertheless, 
Mirabal is a fairly 
interesting disc. 
By presenting tra­
ditional music in 
a pop contexjt, he 
has created aj new 
genre and will 
perhaps inspire 
other artists to 
bring their 'own 
forms of music to 
the masses. '!
Mirabal’s real ge­
nius lies in how he 
can make other­
wise standard alternative rock tynes 
sound original and compelling.
While he may not make an entire 
nation stand up and take notice, his 
wistful melodies and engaging rhythms 
definitely deserve a second look.
Album returns band 
to its industrial roots
By STEPHEN BIDWA
Tartan Staffwriter
Front Line Assembly (F.L.A.) has 
been around since 1986. Bill Leeb 
was the founding father of the band, 
later joined by Michael Balch, Rhys 
Fulber, and Chris Peterson. If you’re 
into industrial music much at all, 
you should recognize most of the 
names I’m going to throw out here. 
Before forming F.L.A., Leeb worked 
under the alias of Wilhelm Schroeder 
in Skinny Puppy. Later on in F.L. A.’s 
history, Balch left the group to pur­
sue work with A1 Jourgensen in Min­
istry and Revolting Cocks.
/^I Artist: Front Line Assembly 
sggsg Title: Reclamation
Label: Roadrunner Records ______________________
Citing influences such as New Order, 
Front 242, and Throbbing Gristle, the 
band set out to emulate and improve 
upon the post-punk hardcore techno 
scene that had begun to form in Europe. 
Reclamation is a collection of F.L.A. 
tracks from the band’s most prolific and 
creative time, from 1989 to 1993.
As a little advice to the wise, if 
you’re not already into the indus­
trial scene and have been in said 
state of awareness for several years 
now, you probably won’t like this 
music. We aren’t talking about Trent 
Reznor and “Closer” here. F.L.A. 
made all of these tracks before 
“electrónica” was even coined as an 
all-encompassing term for anything
that refuses to use a trap set and 
guitar. Therefore, you will find no 
“ump-sis, ump-sis” high-hat cymbal 
action or bass that is in-your-freakiri- 
face obvious like techno of the past 
several years.
These tracks are darker, slower 
dance music. If you knew what was 
up when you were in high school (or 
wherever you were about seven 
years ago) and went to certain dance 
clubs, you would have heard this 
music, pulsing among the dark 
strobe-lit rooms. And if you are into 
techno music fairly deeply, you will 
recognize samples from the 12 
tracks on this album showing up in 
your techno tracks.
The music is rather stark by today’s 
sugar-coated standards, consisting 
mostly of a bass guitar laying down 
the skeleton for the songs oon which 
the band members proceed to hang 
effects and vocal samples. I don’t care 
what others say. Some guy giving out 
a psycho laugh over and over during 
a song is scary. Period.
The music is kinda hard to dance 
to nowadays. Reclamation holds 
slower music, with the exception of 
the track “Millennium,” which is no­
ticeably faster and thus, crosses over 
to the styles of the present dance 
music. Track six, “The Blade,” is the 
most representative of all that was 
good in the industrial music scene 
back then, complete with Gothic vo­
cals, deep bass, and the nutso laugh­
ter. That’s what it’s all about. Nutso. 
Put that in your pipe and smoke it.
ESHIPPINGSFAXmCOPIES0STAMPS
WE 61 
‘raltmahlru 
‘1mr‘hlt U 
‘1•uluiuF 
‘6taC um 1
414 S.
UPS AUTHORIZED SHIPPING OUTLET
MAIL BOXES ETC.*
ECIALIZE IN PACKING & SHIPPING COMPUTERS WORLDWIDE 
ahe Iu‘raL O cmhlraL ‘UPS, stC Ex haC DHL 
ehreSux Gtalhen ‘LuW Ialtmahlruahe 1•uat Ghltn 
e&raL” on LuW hn 30ZiuF& ‘Ianlhal 1hnnFuml 1•ulun 
Gtitr‘t shxtn ‘Wtnltma parua 6tm‘ritn
‘Call us about our student specials*
Craig St. (Near Forbes Ave. & Carnegie Museum) 687-6100
gMAILBOXESPOVERNIGHTH
OFFICESUPPLIESiz
PACKINGSUPPLIES
Obk­fSuqOfvppOvi-
c;INT ERCL;CC/ SVTNF cND;FARD
JALLY ALP ENGLoNP
You don’t have to cross the ocean or even like Steak & Kidney pie to enjoy great and familiar 
tunes from the British Isles. Holst, Vaughan Williams and Elgar are just a few of the 
composers featured on this RCBB program of musical riches from England with Scotland 
and Wales joining in on the fun! Bagpipe Soloist: James McIntosh
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 4 8 PM
CARNEGIE MUSIC HALL - Oakland
CMU STUDENT SAVINGS $5 RCBB STUDENT RUSH TICKETS
0vef4eT4l dc soD LdGUlrdL pnlLlrdfri ve4fU Vb7b TldIllr Phk' x ’hww 9o 
cr O1dcTln k ed dal senrlifl oGLf1 qe44 :c- O??f1lb

---------------------------------------------------

L14The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 22 September 1997
Conductor opens season
6y BECKY A. COWSER
TaHdn features Editor
j
|n a Crisp white tie and tails, he 
Walked triumphantly to center 
stage. The audience rose to its 
feet With rousing applause in­
dicative of the response he would 
receive throughout the entire 
night, tie bowed graciously, which 
encouraged the crowd to clap 
louder. Only when he stepped 
onto the ^ed-carpeted podium and 
raised tyis baton did silence fall 
over the house. And with one flick 
of his wrist—The Signature Sea­
son had begun.
Fr^dayVtiight at Heinz Hall 
wash’tjuStthe opening of the Pitts­
burgh Symphony Orchestra’s 
1997-98 season; it was the 
dawning of a new era — 
the Mariss Jansons Era.
The new conductor and 
music director of th e PSO 
made his debut in front of 
^.packed house that was 
eager to sample his tal­
ent. ^hey were the first 
to experience The Signa­
ture Season, or the pre­
miere, year of Jansons’ 
i'fiigri &s maestro, so 
named because Jansons 
will leave his mark on 
Pittsburgh with this first 
series of concerts.
Tile evening’s program 
included the challenging 
Symphony No. 5 in C- 
sharp minor by Gustav 
Mahler, as well as Franz 
Joseph Haydn’s Sym­
phony No. 100 in G Ma- 
¦jdr, bfetfer known as Mili- 
T&ry. 'This piece was the 
firfct'in the PSO’s two- 
year BuWey of Haydn’s 
12 “¿London” sympho­
nies. As if those weren’t 
enoiigh, a hesitant yet 
charming Jansons ex­
plained the “Musical 
Mystery” that the audi­
ence was to hear first.
Thfe Musical Mystery 
Will be a staple in all of 
this season’s symphony 
perfortnances — a “gift” 
to the audience, as 
Jansons explained, of ei- 
'ther a little-recognized 
piece by a well-known composer 
"or a more obscure but notewor­
thy scfh*e. The piece will be re­
vealed’each night during the con­
cert and will have some connec­
tion to the theme of the program.
Friday’s Musical Mystery was 
Beethoven’s Coriolan Overture, Op. 
62,. a spirited introduction to 
Jaflfions’passionate conducting. He 
sfeemefl to enjoy leadingthe piece as 
Much is the audience did hearing 
itilt seemed to promise great things 
for the rest of the performance.
Haydn’s Military followed and 
brought with it not only fine play­
ing but also a little schmaltz. 
When Haydn wrote the piece, the 
triangle, bass drum, and cymbals 
were most commonly found in 
military bands. Jansons decided 
to stress this element in the pre­
sentation of the work, for all of 
these instruments, including the 
bells, processed onto the stage for 
their entrance. As if that weren’t 
enough, they popped up again 
later in the piece, this time pro­
cessing down the right-center 
aisle. The audience was obviously 
won over by this, as they gave 
Jansons his second standing 0 of 
the evening, but-it did nothing to 
enhance the piece. The Military
bers were moved to applause 
and even shouts of approval be­
tween each movement. Ever the 
gentleman, however, Jansons 
waited for the house to settle 
before continuing with the ex­
pansive 72-minute work. The 
piece lacked intensity at the end 
of the second movement and 
into the third, but Jansons made 
up for it in the end. He and the 
PSO ended the Mahler, and 
their night, with another stand­
ing ovation, and Jansons re­
ceived three callbacks as well.
To top the evening off, the 
audience was invited to rub el­
bows with Jansons himself 
along with all of the PSO mem­
bers in a reception held on Sixth
Excess abounds in play
courtesy of Pittsburgh Symphony
Mariss Jansons, a Latvian native, conducted in Norway before coming to 
Pittsburgh to conduct the city’s symphony.
was Haydn’s most popular sym­
phony during his lifetime for a 
reason, and it wasn’t because it 
required a visual enactment.
Mahler’s sprawling “Fifth Sym­
phony” put the orchestra to the 
test after the intermission, and it 
was this piece which brought out 
Jansons’ true showmanship. He 
moved around the podium assur­
edly, gracefully even, as he led 
the orchestra in a magnificent 
rendition of this expansive work. 
More than a few audience mem-
Lgm ‘jrarar
<: r o o I,
I* 62J-Ha>r jt j
SJ°ff
E6ha‘
service
with
student ID
Avenue in front of Heinz Hall. 
This final gesture only added 
to the evidence that this year, 
the PSO will be unveiling its 
friendlier, more accessible side. 
This promotional tactic could 
be beneficial for the PSO as 
long as it doesn’t compromise 
the integrity of its performers 
or programs. A little fluff can 
go a long way, but it can’t beat 
the substance. Hopefully, 
Jansons’ talent and the PSO’s 
musical solidity will remain the 
primary selling points of the or­
chestra, not its obtrusive promo­
tional schemes.
For tickets or more informa­
tion, call 392-4900.
By PAULETTE POULLET
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The buzz surrounding the au­
dience makes the still air grow 
heavy, as people excitedly chit­
chat and paraphrase reviews, pre­
paring themselves for the spec­
tacle to come. A 
low, irritating 
hum begins and 
the audience 
grows silent, eyes 
glued to the stage.
The hum becomes 
louder as Andy 
Warhol paces, ar­
ranging a stack of 
boxes to his satis­
faction. Suddenly and unexpect­
edly, loud gun shots pierce the 
air. Warhol doubles over in pain, 
grasping his abdomen.
Directed by Anne Bogart in 
cooperation with the Andy 
Warhol Museum, Culture of De­
sire is loosely based on Dante’s 
Inferno and trails the shooting 
of Andy Warhol and his descent 
into the purgatory of consumer- 
ist culture.
Pop culture and money are 
intertwined with Warhol’s art 
and existence. He personifies our 
desire and makes it concrete in 
his art, making his personal­
ity the perfect focus for the 
work. Diane Vreeland serves 
as his Virgil, guiding him 
through the nightmarish in­
ferno and offering insights and 
reflections on his life and 
work, bringing cohesion to the 
otherwise scattered scenes.
From stores, to classrooms, to
rock concerts, to Warhol’s Fac­
tory, the erraticism in Culture of 
Desire traces the decay in mod­
ern values. We all are faced with 
a continuous and passionate want 
for things detached of ourselves, 
such as money, fame, and ob­
jects. This detachment crumbles
“The only two true tragedies in 
our time are not getting every­
thing we desire and getting ev­
erything we desire. ”
the human, forming a repulsive 
excess of the material or lust for 
the material. Warhol’s compan­
ions in his voyage portray this 
excess impeccably, approaching 
it from differing perspectives 
and situations.
The only two true tragedies in 
our time are not getting every­
thing we desire and getting ev­
erything we desire, the play 
states. Pacing monologues are ac­
companied by hypnotic chanting 
slogans, pounding in our ears. 
We can no longer think for our­
selves: “Where’s the beef?”; “Our 
prices are insane!”; “Got milk?”
Popeye and Dick Tracy emerge 
from a comic book, Elvis Presley 
speaks with Warhol regarding 
wealth and beauty. The concept 
is simple and familiar in its en­
tirety — modern society is no 
longer based on happiness ob­
tained, but on superficial materi­
alism. The less you need a face
lift or a candy bar, the better. 
Although the concept has been 
discussed, the way the play pre­
sents it is startlingly fresh, new, 
bizarre, and unfamiliar.
The scenery is simple yet mas­
terful, ironically plain for a play 
regarding materialism. Rows of 
crates become gates, 
elevators, and 
chairs. Silver and 
black are the only 
costume colors, and 
a flood lamp becomes 
a movie camera. The 
simplicity of the vj-
________ sual aspect coni-
bined with the com­
plexity of the mes­
sage produces an unconventional 
melange, appealing to all the 
senses and repulsing the audi­
ence in its material excess.
Culture of Desire portrays an 
insightful look inside the post- 
World-War-II generational 
psyche, appealing to the 
masses by cultural reference, 
revolutionary in its approach 
and presentation.
The actors change roles as if 
changing a hat, and pull a poten­
tially confusing play into a cohe­
sive, artful statement. Striking 
thought, that the play allows one­
self to reflect on one’s personal 
excess, making one shudder for a 
split second in repulsion before 
thinking of buying another need­
less sweater.
Culture of Desire plays until 
September 28 at the City The­
ater. Call 431-CITY for more 
information.
Movie plays off stereotypes
IN, from page Lll
ter Malloy (Tom Selleck), an 
openly gay reporter for Inside 
Entertainment, is not as easily sat­
isfied. He decides to stick around 
for the week until the wedding to, 
“see how the story unfolds.”
And what a week it is! 
Kline is hilarious as 
Howard, playing the char­
acter with the right mix of 
humor and horror at the 
situation he finds himself 
in. Kline makes his com­
ments on “window treat­
ments,” and wild gestures 
come across as involuntary 
actions. He is a gay man, in 
spite of all of his efforts to 
the contrary.
Cusack is wonderfully 
frantic as Howard’s maybe, 
maybe not, fiancée. She is 
perhaps even more confused 
than Howard is, wondering 
if perhaps she has dedicated 
her entire life, lost 75 
pounds, and highlighted her 
hair all for a man who has 
never found her attractive, 
and never will.
Kline and Cusack’s perfor­
mances are made evert better by
an excellent supporting cast. 
Selleck, sans his famous mus­
tache, is great as the slick and 
scummy reporter who slowly re­
alizes “how television” he is. 
Dillon, in a small role, must have
love Barbara Streisand, but ac­
tually gets into a fight defending 
her performance in Yentl. When 
he tries to make love to his 
fiancée, he is unsuccessful be­
cause the Richard Simmons
©1997 Paramount Pictures 
Howard (Kevin Kline) tries to learn how to be masculine in In and Out.
SEE YOU AT THE 
TECHNICAL OPPORTUNITIES CONFERENCE 
ON SEPTEMBER 25TH
Afewmedia is the leading Information Technology Consulting & 
Education Corporation in Cleveland. Rated #2 on the 
Weatherhead 100 List & #222 on the Inc. 500 List, our 
emerging technology projects demand the industry’s best talent
INTERNET
- JAVA. ActivoX. NnlDynamlos, Vlounl IntorDov. ASP
#CLIENT/SERVER 
CERTIFIED TRAININO
- Microsoft, Pownr*oft, JAVA. Sybase. ORACLE, 
VAAndown NT. plus othars
newmedia
JL
jeur tnMtdp3nr.tr w wformoaon ttcbnolog)
503 Eait 200th Street'. Cleveland . Ohio 44110 
Suite 202 . Phone: 216.411.7900 x23» Fax: 216.4I1.1S70
E-mail: barTowignmedia.com
•ncMcctouw.craivi' Website: wwwjimodia.com
Howard Hughes Medical Institute
Predoctoral Fellowships in Biological Sciences
1998 Competition
80 fellowships will be awarded for full-time study toward the 
Ph.D or Sc.D. degree m cell biology, genetics, immunology, 
neuroscience, structural biology, epidemiology, or mathematical 
biology.
Fellowship terms
i Three-year initial awards, 
with two-year extension 
possible
Eligibility
i Less than one year of post­
baccalaureate graduate 
study in biology: 
college seniors; 
first year graduate students; 
M.D., D.O., D.D.S., D.V.M., 
students or professionals
Schedule
i Application deadline: 
November 12,1097 
i Awards announced: 
early April 1998
i §15,000 annual stipend 
i .$15,000 annual cost-of- 
education allowance
i If an M.D/Ph.D. student: 
not in a funded program 
i No citizenship requirements: 
U.S. citizens may study 
abroad;
others must study 
in the United States
Fellowships start:
June 199fr-January 1999
For Program Announcements, Eligibility 
Guidelines, and Applications
Hughes Predoctoral Fellowships
National Research Council Fellowship Office
2101 Constitution Avenue
Washington. DC 20418
Telephone (202)334-2872
Fax (202)334-3419
E-mail <infofell@nas.edu>
http://fellowships.nas.edu
The Howard Hughes Medical Institute welcomes applications from all qualified candidates and encourages women and members of minority groups to apply.
watched hours of tape of Brad 
Pitt and Johnny Depp to have so 
perfectly nailed unconformist ac- 
tor/heartthrob Cameron Drake.
In and Out, directed by Frank 
Oz, works so well because it not 
only accepts homosexual stereo­
types, but plays off of them mas­
terfully. Howard does not merely
workout video playing in the 
background proves to be too dis­
tracting.
When, finally, his last attempts 
to salvage his “masculinity” are 
destroyed, it comes not from any 
great revelation, but because he 
is unable to keep from dancing to 
“I Will Survive.”
You've got everything if takes—academic achievement, 
drive, and the knowledge you're ¡ust itching to let fly; As 
a $3.8 billion global powerhouse, Harris gives graduates reaJ- 
world responsibilities right out of the gate.
Come see us at the Harris booth on September 25. 1997 from lOMQaitHkOOpm at the Technical Opportunities Conference In the CMU Student Center Gym.
• COMPUTER ENGINEERS
• SYSTEMS ENGINEERS 
. ?, COMPUTER SCIENCE
• MECHANICAL ENGINEERS
• ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS
• BUSINESS/FINANCE/ACCOUHTIN®• MIS/CIS
• CHEMICAL ENGINEERS 
INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERS(
Harris offers graduates global exposure to a real- 
world arena, generous opportunities for professional 
growth, the technologies and resources to enhance your 
talents, and the compensation, benefits and rewards you'd 
expect from a Fortune 500 company. If you cannot attend, 
please forward your resume, Intluding sauna nxitt iHGMWS,
| to: Harris Corporation, RO. Box 37, Mailsfop 
1j 2-1430, Melbourne, FL 32902-0037; Email rasumix@ 
harris.com (Resumes must be in ASCII format) Hairii is an 
equal oppoilunity employ« dedicated to divejsily M/F/D/V.
POWER UP @ www.harris.com/collcgc
HARRIS

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 22 September 1997L15
DH 2210
movies you may have seen before....
By GREG MARCKS
Thursday, September 25
Europa Europa
This movie is not funny. It’s about a Jewish kid 
during the Holocaust who, like Madonna, has to 
learn how to adapt in order to survive. So he straps 
on some boots and marches around with the other 
kids. He does a pretty good Aryan impression, 
except he lacks a bit of skin that all the other fellas 
have. Luckily for all parties involved, he doesn’t go 
parading around with his pants down.
The German title for this film translates closer to 
“Hitler Youth Solomon” because the boy’s name is 
Solomon. I don’t know who came up with “Europa 
Europa,” which sounds like a Fruitopia flavor. It’s 
supposedly a true story.
At 7:30, 10 pm, and 12:30 am
In McConomy
Friday, September 26
Chasing Amy
This movie is funny and good, but it’s not for 
people who don’t like big fat cuss words used hard 
and used long, ’cuz Kevin Smith sure ain’t afraid to 
swear. I took my great-grandma to go see this and 
she came out talking like a sailor with a bad case of 
the clap and two silver dollars in his pocket.
The real pull of this movie is of course the whole 
lesbian thing. What happens when you fall in love 
with a lesbian? Well, she comes around, of course. 
But then you find out that she’s not strictly les, 
she’s sorta bi, which really deflates your ego be­
cause until that point you were some kind of big 
stud, an apex of the evolutionary chain which 
female genetic information simply couldn’t resist. 
So you go home and draw some more comic books.
At 7:30, 10 pm, and 12:30 am
In McConomy
Saturday, September 27
Private Parts
When I woke up this morning, I heard Howard 
Stern on the radio talking to a 23-year-old female 
caller. She sounded like she was depressed and 
needed help. I had to wonder why she would call 
Howard Stern, who was obviously just going to 
exploit her pain to get higher ratings.
He did, and it worked, because no one can be as 
cruel as Howard Stern. This girl said she wanted to 
be killed in a “snuff’ film. Howard said “Are you 
hot?” which he usually does and she said, “no.” 
Then he said, “Are you fat?” and she said “Yeah, 
kinda.” Then out of nowhere, Howard asks “Are 
you Polish?” and she said ‘Yeah.” He said “I .thought 
so.” She didn’t even ask him how he knew.
At 7:30, 10 pm, and 12:30 am
In McConomy
Sunday, September 28
The Atomic Cafe
That’s right kids, it’s the old duck-and-cover 
method, ergonomically designed to keep you safe 
during a nuclear blast. Even though the material 
your desk is made out of is soft enough to carve your 
name into, we think it will protect you from the 
deadly radioactive fallout sure to follow the bomb’s 
detonation.
For the next 90 minutes we’ll be showing you 
actual footage of United States military troops being 
subjected to harmful nuclear radiation in order to 
study its effects on half-witted soldiers. Plus we’ll 
throw in a whole bunch of old “How-to-be-safe-in- 
the-Nuclear-Age” newsreels for old times’ sake.
At 8, 10 pm, and midnight
In McConomy
Name the Quote:
“She has green eyes!”
(“Oh my god, the quarterback is toast!”- 
Gilyard Jr. in Die Hard)
- Clarence
Adapting novels raises issues
Cil HfmLmpdu Arl
by Alex Lewin
Four films coming out this fall 
have generated a lot of buzz in 
being adapted from well-known 
and respected novels: L.A. Con­
fidential (from the novel by 
James Ellroy), The Sweet Here­
after (from the novel by Russell 
Banks), The Ice Storm (from the 
novel by Rick Moody), and Mid­
night in the Garden of Good and 
Evil (from the “nonfiction novel” 
by John Berendt). The movie 
magazines have pegged these 
films as serious Oscar contend­
ers, and three of them — L.A. 
Confidential, The Sweet Hereaf­
ter, and The Ice Storm—received 
enthusiastic critical acclaim at 
the Cannes Film Festival (.Mid­
night is still in production, with 
Clint Eastwood directing).
The fact that these particular 
films, based on these particular 
novels, are all coming out at 
once raises issues of what it 
means to adapt a movie from a 
novel. The best adaptations — 
Ordinary People or The Silence 
of the Lambs — pick and choose 
which subplots or details to in­
clude and which ones to dis­
pense with.
How does one adapt a novel for
film and still maintain the integ­
rity of the story? A book like 
Midnight in the Garden of Good 
and Evil resists adaptation be­
cause of the way it’s structured: 
the first third of the book is an 
exploration of the locale and 
populace of Savannah, and we 
don’t actually get into the main 
plot (a murder mystery/court­
room drama) until well past page
“His last thought, a simple, ado­
lescent ‘oh, no,’ was all he had 
time for; in fact, it was exactly 
simultaneous with his electrocu­
tion, because through some 
strange celestial circuitry, he 
knew at the moment of his death 
that it was his death.” How do 
you put a moment like that on 
screen? You could cut to a quick 
close-up of the actor, and if he’s
had a certain resonance: it made 
a statement about Crawford and 
the necessarily emotionless world 
of the FBI. But in the movie, it 
would be irrelevant to the story. 
It would be extraneous because 
once Clarice (Jodie Foster) is es­
tablished as the central charac­
ter, the audience would not havte 
the patience for any deviation 
from her journey.
"I’m dying to write a screenplay based on Absolute Be­
ginners by Colin Macinnes, but I know that in order to 
do so, I'll have to figure out what the main plot is (the 
novel is really a jumble of subplots) and how to tell 
Macinnes’ story while moving along that plot line.”
100. Berendt’s bestseller is a bril­
liant book, but you can’t struc­
ture a story that way on film. 
You have to grab your audience 
sooner. How a screenwriter will 
accomplish this is a difficult mat­
ter on which to speculate. Is it 
not possible for Eastwood’s 
screenwriter, John Lee Hancock 
{APerfect World), to tell the story 
of the murder trials and still 
maintain the point of Berendt’s 
book, which is more about Sa­
vannah as a place than it is about 
the murder around which its 
events are centered?
And what about the cerebral 
quality of Rick Moody’s prose in 
The Ice Storm? In a pivotal chap­
ter, Moody describes the death of 
a character in the following way:
good, the audience will see real­
ization in his eyes and under­
stand what he understands (and 
hopefully feel what he feels) in 
the moment of his death. Or you 
could have his thought, his oh no, 
actually articulated; he might not 
say it, but we could hear him 
think it, a la Dune.
Or you could skip it entirely. 
Perhaps you have to concede to 
the technique used in fiction and 
recognize that there is no film 
technique to produce the same 
effect that the prose does. Silence 
of the Lambs screenwriter Ted 
Tally chose to leave out an entire 
subplot involving the sickness 
and eventual death of Jack 
Crawford-s (the Scott Glenn 
character’s) wife. In the novel, it
Why do we adapt novels for the 
screen? The story strikes us iii 
such a way that we say, “This 
story could make a great movie,” 
given certain alterations. I’m dy­
ing to write a screenplay based 
on Absolute Beginners by Colin 
Macinnes, but I know that in 
order to do so, I’ll have to figure 
out what the main plot is (the 
novel is really a jumble of sub­
plots) and how to tell Macinnes’ 
story while moving along that plot 
line. Sometimes staying true to 
your source material means devi­
ating from it.
Alex Lewin is a senior creative / 
professional writing major who 
is counting the days until the re: 
lease o/’The Ice Storm.Writer views comics as literature
HtRmp Nttv Hiftsmpule
by Max Chittister
Of course comic books count as 
literature. What kind of moron 
would say otherwise?
When I first decided to write a 
column that began with these 
words, I thought I’d write about 
five or six different examples, 
show some good art and some 
good writing, and basically 
write a list of my favorite comic 
books.Except last week, I 
bought the best comic book I’ve 
ever read.
Jaka’s Story is the fifth vol­
ume of Dave Sim’s Cerebus se­
ries; the story was originally 
published in issues 114 through 
136 of Cerebus.
The plot is actually relatively 
simple: Cerebus has been run 
out of the Upper City, so he takes 
refuge with the tavern dancer 
Jaka, who is the great love of his 
life. The problem is she’s mar­
ried and pregnant.
She dances in a tavern for three 
bits a day, and she buys her food 
every day for three bits a day. 
This is interspersed with scenes 
from her childhood as the niece 
of Lord Julius, the politics of the 
court, and of her doll Missy.
Her past self moves toward 
the foregone conclusion of her 
leaving Julius’ estate just as the 
main plot moves to its far-from- 
foregone conclusion, as Cerebus 
drops a bottle of white paint in 
front of a demolished tavern.
But the glory of this book is, 
you don’t need to read the first 
113 issues to understand this 
storyline. Granted, it helps — 
you’ll understand exactly how a 
small gray aardvark arrived in a 
small mountainside village and 
came to love a married dancer
named Jaka. For the purposes of 
this story, it’s enough that 
Cerebus says to Jaka’s hus­
band Rick, “Cerebus is in love 
with your wife.” In that sen­
tence is all you truly need to 
know about Cerebus and 
Jaka’s relationship.
The ideal comic book isn’t about
that you can’t use words for with­
out overwriting. About half of 
the panels in this book contain 
either only sound effects or no 
sound at all.
The black-and-white art is per­
fectly proportioned and realistic 
(as close to realistic as a four- 
foot tall aardvark can be, which
courtesy of ArdvarkVanheim 
Jaka’s Story combines graphics and text in a pleasing manner.
just the words or just the pic­
tures, but is about the way the 
two work together. Dave Sim has 
made a career out of using a six- 
or nine-panel grid without words 
to show progression, movement, 
contemplation, and many things
is surprisingly realistic). 
When it is called upon to sup­
port the story, the art per­
forms admirably.
The other half of the book is 
split between “normal” panels 
with dialogue and pages of prose
with one main illustration. Sim 
uses the pages of prose as well as 
any writer I’ve seen (the only oth­
ers who come immediately to mind 
are Gerry Conway in the mid- 
1980s Firestorm and Terry Moore 
in Strangers in Paradise). I 
When using this format, most 
writers would take great care 
to describe in painstaking 
detail every little nuance o'f 
a scene or piece of dialogue 
and then the artist would 
draw the exact same thing."
Sim, instead, uses hi's 
words and his pencils to com­
pliment each other. Pud th6 
tavern keeper’s longest in­
terior monologue is accom­
panied by only one picture, 
of a man sitting on a bench; 
as he thinks about his 
mother, his money, his love 
for Jaka, we see a man sitting 
on a bench.
I’m in an unusual position 
here. Usually, I don’t like any­
thing, but I have nothing bad 
to say about this book.
Jaka’s Story gives me a feel­
ing way down in my guts, 
like I need to read it again, 
like I need to write, like I 
need to jump up and dance 
and scream. I love this comic 
book, and I can say, without 
hesitation, that this is art, 
this is literature.
Max Chittister is a senior, 
creative /professional writing 
major. He’s convinced that 
there are only six people read­
ing his column right now. If 
you are reading it and you, 
like it, email him at 
beatle@cmu.edu. If you are 
inc. reading it and you don’t 
like it, email him at 
beatle@cmu.edu and tell him 
what you want to read. If yoii 
didn’t read the column, but 
you are trolling for funny com -, 
ments, email him at 
beatle@cmu.edu and tell him 
what it would take for you tq 
read this column.Crime drama examines dirty police
L.A., from page Lll
men are accused of the crime. The suspects 
are killed during an attempted arrest, and it 
seems that the case is closed. But a few 
detectives begin to dig a little deeper, as one 
of the victims was an ex-cop, found dead 
with a high-price prostitute sculpted to look 
like a popular film actress.
On their own, the cops begin to uncover a 
corrupt web of drugs, blackmail, and prosti­
tution that goes as high as the district 
attorney’s office. Someone is obviously try­
ing to step into the shoes of the recently- 
jailed organized crime boss and take over 
the City of Angels. The question is: who?
This film is a gritty look at the sordid side 
of police detective work, and the picture is 
sometimes so troubling that even the cops 
find their jobs suddenly difficult to swal­
low. Vincennes, White, and Exley each
must decide to act justly in an unjust game, 
and as a result, they all face the consequences' 
which come in the form of an extremely sus7 
penseful climax.
Although the plot is somewhat convo­
luted at points and many of the details are 
still unclear, this film is a good choice for 
people who like mental challenges or fans 
of old school cop stories. Just don’t go ex­
pecting Dragnet.

---------------------------------------------------

\\ÿiig in Baker H?% Hai 
author
W the lu
¿í'iÿ.(¦) $\Ì)c confort 
d to proviti 
history. p\ 
^^ÌS®^jpÉl‘' ‘ve t raditi 
JVuor i RfrP Sjech noi o|r(<ì 
d the relR&$f culture gsl 
and techra^&y. Four ì\¥gì\ 
gnated alìi>i| focus forati 
“roundt^K di scussi oft 
:hnologiel|p§fÌ education!; 
i envirqM^n tal^ùstàinl
,a sema 
I of Ha!
UnimìtjC ATONDAR
September 22,1997September 28,1997
In the Company of Men
is playing at the Harris Theatre 
through September 25.
Europa Europa
will play at 7:30,10 pm, and 
12:30 am on Thursday 
in McConomy Auditorium.
Chasing Amy
will play at 7:30.10 pm. and 
12:30 am on Friday 
in McConomy Auditorium.
The Actor
will play at 8 pm on Friday and
2 pm on Saturday at the 
Carnegie Museum of Art.
Private Parts
will play at 7:30.10 pm. and 
12:30 am on Saturday 
in McConomy Auditorium.
The Atomic Cafe
will play at 8,10 pm. and 
midnighton Sunday in 
McConomy Auditorium.
Top Hat
will play at 8 pm on Saturday 
and 2 pm on Sunday at the 
Carnegie Museum of Art.
Metropolis
will play at 7 pm on Sunday at 
the Carnegie Museum of Art.
oncampus
Student Dormitory Council is having its 
next meeting this Wednesday at 7:30 pm 
in the Connan Room in the UC. Partici­
pating in SDC enables interaction with ad­
ministration on campus issues and plan­
ning campus events. For more informa­
tion, contact Andy Sadhwani, SDC Public 
Relations, at x2-3003.
Technical Opportunities Conference 
will take place on Thursday in Rangos Hall 
and the UC gym from 10 am until 6 pm. 
Over 150 companies will have represen­
tatives. This is an opportunity to look for 
a summer internship. CMU ID required 
for admission. For more information, go 
to http:! ! www.cmu.edu ! cit ! biomed ! toe.
aroundtown
African Drumming is a 12-week master 
class presented by the University of Pitts­
burgh Department of Music and A Bridge 
Across: Intercultural Composition, Perfor­
mance, Musicology. The class will be con­
ducted by Dr. John Chernoff, adjunct as­
sociate professor of music, on Tuesdaj's 
from 7 to 9 pm in Room 123 in the Music 
Building at the University of Pittsburgh. 
The program is designed for persons al­
ready competent in the performance of per­
cussion music. Enrollment is limited to 12 
students, and admission is strictly by au­
dition. The enrollment fee is $100. For 
those interested in participating, an enroll­
ment form should be requested by calling 
624-4126. For more information, call 
Marilyn Locker at 624-4125.
Kaffeestunde, or German Coffee Hour, 
will take place on Tuesdays from 3:30 tó 
4:30 pm in the first floor eating area in 
the UC next to the pool. People who speak 
or are learning German are welcome to at­
tend. Contact Professor Anne Green of the 
Department of Modern Languages at x8- 
5669 for more information.
Mesa Española, The Spanish Brown Bag 
and Conversation Hour, will take place ev­
ery Tuesday from 11:30 am to 12:30 pm. 
Hosted by faculty mejpiüfigflÜHtarna 
Zattoni and Bladi Ruiz, 
aged to come share Spail|HBHHHBion 
as well as meet other S^H^HHHlts. 
Contact the Department! 
guages at x8-5669for^
Pugwash will be\ostin|
Peace, a ra^iqtoal Pugwai 
from Fri^fry Jclirough S
There will never be another Fred Astaire. Top Hat will be playing at the Carnegie Museum of Art on Saturday at 8 pm.
courtesy Ca meg e A
Qoril
Tand the rell 
of science and techl 
been designated al 
groups in “roundtl 
mation technologies 
needs and envirq 
health and medil 
cial and economil 
is due by Septen 
mation, email ki\ 
call X8-2670.
Greek Peer Ad
ing the first anml 
Walk on Octobel 
tration forms arJ 
Life Office or fron 
is $5, and all pro! 
the Pittsburgh Fo§ 
limited number ofi 
who sign up early. | 
nizers hope to fostj 
atmosphere for b| 
Greeks with this ef
Clutches and Mori 
Cone Motility is tlfl
be presented by Dil 
University on Frida 
Mellon Institute So’ 
information, ema 
minden@andrew.cmii
logies’of 
iferfence, 
ay in the
day from noon until 1:20 pm in the 
McKenna-Peter Room in the UC. The talk 
focuses on the question of whether the 
structure and emphases of an introductory 
course influence how much students learn 
and remember. A Q&A session will follow 
; 50-minute lecture.
tic Process Synthesis is the topic 
|ire by Dr. Jeffrey J. Siirola, a re- 
|low, Chemical Technology Group, 
Chemical Company, on Tuesday 
^o 5:30 pm in Doherty Hall 1112.
3 is part of the Chemical Engi- 
lartment’s 1997 Herbert L. Toor 
[justry Lectureship.
fng Financial Statements 
ersonal and Professional
¦ Gaii^^^Wy Beerman, project director of 
r JE^npliaM Management Process, will give 
g- quick tips on reading financial statements 
i October 1 from noon until 1 pm in the 
Jigleton Room in Roberts Engineering 
ill. Beverages and dessert will be pro-. 
led. RSVP by Friday to Pat Glass at 
|ggie@cmu.edu or call x8-5630.
Midnight Manna is a half-hour contem­
plative worship service held in the UC 
Chapel on Thursdays at midnight. Mid­
night Manna features scripture, music, 
and prayer. This week features the music 
of Estonian composer Arvo Part. Midnight 
Manna is sponsored by the United Cam­
pus Ministry of Pittsburgh.
Choral Compline will be performed by 
the Pittsburgh Compline Choir at Heinz 
Chapel on the Pitt campus at 8:30 pm on 
Sunday evenings. The prayer at the close 
of the day is the way that the church says, 
“Good Night.” Gary P. Garletts of the First 
Presbyterian Church will be the guest or­
ganist on Sunday. For more information, 
call 682-6886.
music
luseums
CIL Seminar Seri]
“What do Students Remember from1! 
Introductory Course? ^^^¡^on Stucj 
a talk by Ruth Chaba®?^^ttbr Innof 
tion in Learning (€IL), auid Bru 
Sherwood, Departmen| dPPfty.|ics, on 1
\ty! ... Set The Table! will be on ex- 
; at the Hewlett Gallery through Oc- 
|r 3. Patty Gallagher, renowned for her 
frndishly decorated vintage bras, de­
ed the installation with surreal set-' 
$. Visitors will be able to sit with lav- 
dressed mannequins representing 
:-women archetypes or dress them- 
|s in a milliner’s shop. For more infor- 
pn, contact Petra Fallaux at x8-3877f
¡adingseries
I mon Grounds Coffee House: Fall 
r poetry reading series will feature the
1 Women’s Writing Group on Tuesday, 
Member 23. Open poetry will take place 
: pm and scheduled readings at 8:30 
ipm. For more information, call 362-1190.
Pittsburgh Chamber Music Society will 
open its new season on October 27 with 
the Julliard String Quartet at Carnegie 
Music Hall. To order tickets, call 624-4129.
29 will be performing at Skibo Coffeehouse 
on Wednesday night from 10 pm until mid­
night. This is the first in a 10-show series 
for this year. The jazz quartet members are 
CMU students Adam Waite (sophomore 
music major), Jacob Ellul-Blake (sopho­
more music major), George K. Chow (jun­
ior design major), and David Fatek (sopho­
more BHA major).
River City Brass Band will perform Jolly 
Old England on October 4 at 8 pm at the 
Carnegie Music Hall. The program will 
feature familiar tunes from the British 
Isles including the works of Williams, 
Elgar, and Sullivan. For more information, 
contact Bill Schlageter at 322-7222.
The Queen’s Delight will be performed 
by David Douglass and his Renaissance 
violin band, The King’s Noyse, at Synod
Hall on September 27 at 8 pm. The pro­
gram, sponsored by the Renaissance and 
Baroque Society, will feature the lusty and 
refined music of 17th-century England. 
Tickets can be purchased at the Pitt Stu­
dent Union, by phone at 682-7262, or at 
the door. Prices are $8 for students with 
ID. An opening night reception for all pa­
trons follows the performance. For more 
information, call 682-7262.
Tim Adams, artist lecturer in percussion 
studies, will perform with the Pittsburgh 
Symphony Trio at 2 pm on September 28 
at the Sweetwater Arts Center in 
Sewickley. Adams will perform with 
Patricia Prattis Jennings and Tim Grubbs 
as part of the Afro-American Maruno Fes­
tival. Tickets are $1 in advance, $2 at the 
door. For more information, call 741-4405.
Music on the Edge, a series of new music 
concerts presented by the University of 
Pittsburgh Department of Music, will open 
its 1997-98 season with a debut concert on 
Tuesday at 8 pm in the Frick Fine Arts Au­
ditorium at Pitt. The program will include 
the Durations Four by Morton Feldman 
and Circadian Rhythms by Mathew 
Rosenblum. Tickets are $5 for students. 
For more information, call 624-4125.
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra will 
feature Beethoven’s Concerto No. 5 in E- 
Flat Major for Piano and ORchestra, Opus 
73 “Emperor this weekend at the Heinz 
Hall for the Performing Arts. Performances 
will be on Thursday at 7:30 pm, and Fri­
day and Saturday at 8 pm. Also, works by 
Olivier Messaien and Leonard Bernstein 
will be performed as well. Mariss Jansons 
will be conducting. For more information 
or to order tickets, call 392-4900.
Samuel Hazo’s Feather will be pre­
sented on September 26 by the Interna­
tional Poetry Forum. Tickets are $12. For 
more information, call 621-9893.
You can advertise for free 
in The Tartan!
If you know of an event on or off cam­
pus that has relevance to the campus . 
community, mall it to The Tartan, Box 
17 in the Carnegie Mellon University Cen­
ter or email auyoung@andrew.cmu.edu 
by Thursday at 5 pm.
Vox Populi is a forum open to the en­
tire campus community! To submit a vox, 
simply send it to The Tartan, Box 17 via 
campus mail, drop it in the Vox Populi 
drop box on the infamous Tartan Server, 
or email it to auyoung@andrew. cmu.edu.
Vox Populi will have you dancing off of 
your ceiling when you read it because of 
its righteous tone and snappy beat. Take 
two, and call Craig in the morning.
President Jared Colion will have stu­
dent office hours at 5:30 pm this Thurs­
day. Students wishing to meet with Dr. 
Cohon should call x8-2200.
NEGoHIRE
“Excuse me, coming 
through, we're drinking, 
we’re drinking."
ExFtmrtait 
l•t IhLri
G-”Hello.” 
N-”Wanna Dance?”
i love el ditch-o
you’re such a putz 
Happy Birthday 
Jenny Marie. 
URAQT! 
lWraketlutn
It is PROBABLE that 
all fate is a figment of 
your imagination
I erkt 1xEE&
they’re so cute with 
puddles of pink 
it makes you 
want to puke
I’U lrmtC
Kat — 
has your ceiling 
collapsed yet?
A —
Wait, what part of 
the shrimp is the 
shell attached 
to?
I oI
