The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 36. No. 4CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1942
Estep Appointed 
M. E. Dept. Head
Professor Thomas Estep has been 
appointed Acting Head of the De­
partment of Mechanical Engineer­
ing here, succeeding Professor Wil­
libald Trinks, who is at present on 
a year’s leave of absence and will 
retire at the completion of his leave.
A member of the faculty since 
1913, successively as instructor, as­
sistant professor, associate profes­
sor, and Professor of Mechanical 
Engineering. Professor Estep was 
affiliated with Westinghouse, H. C. 
Fricke Coke, and other industries 
before coming to Tech.
He is the author of the Mechanical 
Engineering Laboratory Manual, 
Problems in Heat Power Engineer­
ing, and numerous technical mag­
azine articles. His papers have been 
read before a number of engineer­
ing societies. Professor Estep is a 
member of Pi Tau Sigma, honorary 
mechanical engineering fraternity; 
Tau Beta Pi, honorary engineering 
organization; the American Society 
of Mechanical Engineers and the So­
ciety of Promotion of Engineering 
Education.
Free Thistle Offered 
By AXA and PiDe 
At Tea Dance Today
If you have been working like a 
slave for the past few weeks, unlax 
and let yourself go — in fact, let 
yourself go to the AXA-PiDE Tea 
Dance in Thistle at four o’clock this 
afternoon. It will be like no tea 
dance that has ever been held here 
before. Members of the literary 
honoraries have unanimously 
agreed that such superfluos decora­
tions as wallflowers and uncoopera­
tive male huddles will not be al­
lowed. The hosts and hostesses 
will be receptionists but will also 
comprise a make-yourself-at-home- 
and - we’ll - help - you - get - acquainted 
committee.
The sensation of the afternoon 
will be a drawing for a free Thistle. 
There will be pauses to refresh— 
with cokes, and then you can dance 
some more to the music of the ick- 
iest bands of the day via ye juke 
box.
All this and people, too—for thirty 
cents. Just thirty cents—imagine! 
Where would you expect to find 
such a bargain in this day of infla­
tion?
Every member of both honoraries 
will accost you to buy a ticket— 
you had better buy!
------ON THE RECORD -------
Today
12:30, Room 157, Arts, Mr. 
Charles A. H. Pearson will super­
vise this phonograph recital:
Fifth Symphony.......Tchaikowsky
Thursday, October 1
12:30, Room 157, Arts, Dr. Fred­
erick Dorian will be in charge of 
this program:
Ninth Symphony ........... Bruckner
Photo by Bill Huslander
Left to right—Hal Dickson, Chemical Engineering; DeWitt Lyon, Electrical Engi- 
veering; and John Lindberg, Metallurgical Engineering, who were called to Tau Beta 
Pi as Honor Juniors at the Call Day ceremonies of Fall Carnival. They will be 
initiated to the Carnegie chapter tomorrow prior to the Tau Beta Pi dinner.
An Editorial
Engineers Are Not Exempt
In the past, Tech has not been hit as badly by .the draft as the majority 
of schools. Engineers particularly have enjoyed an immunity, and a full 
class will finish in December without having been draft decimated. That 
this condition will not continue long is evidenced by the statement made 
by Secretary of War Stimson that the armed forces are already running 
short of manpower and new recruits must be called up. _ If and whert the 
draft age is dropped, the law will tap a reservoir of two and one half mil­
lion youths between 18 and 20 who have registered for selective service, 
but cannot be touched now. Even then, the army’s present quota will not 
be reached and other sources of military manpower will have to be found.
In an address made to the freshman class at Yale, Harvey H. Bundy, 
assistant to the Secretary of War, said “that America’s college students are 
living on borrowed time. The willingness of the government to permit 
men to enter college rather than to go into the fighting front was described 
by Bundy as a “loan” and an “experiment.” Quoting directly from Bundy’s 
speech, “There is no commitment that any man may complete his college 
education. If the loan to the colleges becomes a method by which men who 
ought to be in the thick of the battle avoid the hazards of war; if the col­
leges retain any of the aspects of the country club which have been pain­
fully evident in the past; if the men who can afford to go to colleges are 
considered as a separate class exempted overlong from fighting, the ex­
periment will be a dismal failure and will not long continue. What the 
government expects of the colleges is an increasing number of professional 
men fitted for greater future service to their country.”
The position of the government is blunt on the draft question, and all 
students should bear in mind that they are on call. None of the education 
acquired at the school here need be wasted by a student draft, since the 
same subjects of mathematics and mechanics are being taught at the mil­
itary training schools. So much for the army viewpoint.
Whether the students find employment on the home front or at the 
fighting front, their efforts are going to be concentrated on winning a war. 
To speed the transition from college to production, perhaps we ought to 
willingly forego some of the “aspects of the country club” and endure a few 
mild rigors. The complacency, that is characteristic of the American Re­
public is also characteristic of Tech. In the world about us, however, can 
be seen evidence of an awakening that is not characteristic of Tech. The 
Administration is to be commended on its programs for increasing the 
number of engineers upon which both industry and the armed forces de­
pend. But, the attitude of those engineers has not been quickened to the 
new pulse of America. Hazing is still a major issue on the campus while 
the maelstrom about us spews up new interpretations of all the codes our 
society is built upon.
Last week Mr. Bayard, in a TARTAN column, suggested that perhaps 
our form of government is outmoded, and needs a complete reoganization 
rather than a shoring up. Not a new idea certainly, but one that should at 
least have stirred comment. Student interest however was nil. There 
is a war going on and the students have to take part in it, so I would sug­
gest that they think about it.
J. J. S.
Dr. Sipple Heads 
Phys Ed Dept.
Dr. Sipple has been appointed the 
new head of the Physical Education 
department. Sipple succeeded Dr. 
Marks as school doctor last year 
and in his new position he also con­
tinues the precedent set by Dr. 
Marks of the school doctor holding 
the position of head of the depart­
ment. Dr. Sipple, a Chicagoan by 
birth, is a graduate of the Univer­
sity of Pennsylvania and Jefferson 
Medical College.
He has been very active in the 
planning of the expanded physical 
education program. “Organized 
gym classes,” he says, “are greatly 
desirable for this way a student 
may gain the maximum benefit 
from the time spent.” Organized 
gym classes at Tech, however, pre­
sent quite a problem because of the 
full time and varied schedules. 
Students take gym from five times 
to only once a week; thus a “once-a- 
weeker” may wake up some morn­
ing to find his muscles in knots be­
cause he attended too advanced a 
gym class.
The plan being followed is a ser­
ies of carefully planned calisthenic 
classes for a period of six weeks. 
After this more diversified training 
such as boxing, wresting, and com­
petitive sports will follow. The 
recently completed obstacle course 
is a part of the new program and 
demonstrated the attempt made by 
the department to pattern the pro­
gram after authorized army and 
navy standards.
School physician is only one of 
the doctor’s jobs. At present he is 
in the middle of his fourteenth year 
as assistant surgeon for the Carne- 
gie-Illinois Steel company and as a 
member of the surgical staff of 
Homestead Hospital. He is also the 
doctor for the Pittsburgh Athletic 
Club, Pennsylvania-Central Air­
lines, Westinghouse Electric, and is 
on the examining staff of a local 
draft board.
Dr. Sipple is the instigator of the 
“cold-tablet movement” at Tech and 
claims that the four thousand cap­
sules swallowed by the students last 
winter reduced hospitalization by 
twenty-five per cent.
ON THE CAMPUS
Tuesday, September 29
11:30 A.M.—M. M. C. C. Elections.
—M. M. C. C. Assembly. 
Elections.
—Engineering Freshmen. 
12:30 P. M.—Record Recital in Arts, 
4:00 P.M.—Alpha Chi Alpha-Del- 
ta Epsilon Tea Dance 
in Thistle Hall. 
Thursday, October 1 
12:30 P.M.—Record Recital in 
Arts, Room 157. 
Saturday, October 3 
2:00 P. M.—Football—Westminster 
at New Wilmington, 
Pa.
8:15 P. M.—Opening performance 
of “Pride and Preju­
dice.”

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIiE TARTANTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1842
Zdit&Ual Gohwut-
ROTC Transfer Privilege Needed
Last week, representatives of the nation’s armed services spoke to the 
men students regarding opportunities for serving the country in those serv­
ices. The speakers, representatives of the Army, Navy, and the Marines,, 
outlined the types of opportunities in their particular services.
The questions which the students asked after the speeches were an 
indication of the varied problems that the current war situation has cre­
ated. Many of the questions were answered at the meeting and many 
were cleared up by Dr. Doherty’s bulletin issued a few days later.
However, a number of R. O. T. C. seniors and juniors feel that there 
is still a problem which should be remedied. They point out that while 
most of the other students may select a branch of the service in their par- 
ticlar field of endeavor and in which they will have use for the training 
which they have been receiving at Tech, they cannot. These students rec­
ognize the excellent opportunities offered by many of the branches of the 
armed services, for students who are not taking R. O. T. C. The Aero’s 
have been eyeing the Air Corps’ Engineers; the Physicists, the Air Corps 
Meteorologists; Mechanicals, the Ordnance Department; Chemists, Chem­
ical Warfare; C. P. T. P. students, the Air Corps.
In short, these students want to serve in the branches that are closest 
to the type of work for which they have been preparing. However, be­
cause they are in the R. O. T. C. these opportunities are closed to them, in 
spite of the obvious need for men in these branches.
Regardless of their motives when they entered the R. O. T. C.— 
whether they were “playing safe” or whether it was pure patriotism that 
motivated their enrollment, the fact remains that these extended oppor­
tunities did not exist at that time and now they can’t transfer from the 
Corps of Engineers.
It will be very difficult for these men to come back after the years of 
road and bridge building in the Corps of Engineers and attempt to com­
pete with the men who have been gaining experience in fields which they 
left when they left college.
Blood For The Armed Forces
The government is asking for thousands of units of human blood a 
month to be used in transfusions to save the lives of soldiers, sailors, and 
civilians suffering from shock following injuries, hemorrhage, or burns.
The Red Cross blood donor service is the answer to this request. It is 
meeting a basic National Defense need. Through this service, volunteer 
blood donors have an opportunity to take vital part in the war program.
By miracle of modern science, blood donations are so treated that the 
plasma, or liquid content from which corpuscles have been removed, may 
now be died and kept indefinitely. It is thus ready for emergency trans­
fusion even under chaotic conditions of battle, disaster or accident ashore, 
at sea, or in the air.
Alpha Phi Omega, service fraternity, is aiding the C. I. T. War Com­
mittee in registering blood donors on the campus. Members of both stu­
dent body and faculty will be requested to give a pint of blood which will 
be used exclusively for the armed forces. A. P. O. men will register those 
who wish to cooperate and an appointment will be made for each person 
at a definite time and place.
This campaign represents a change in policy in that the Red Cross will 
bring its facilities to the Carnegie campus, and it will not be necessary for 
those who wish to donate blood to go downtown to the Wabash Building, 
as formerly. If under 21, the student must have the written consent of 
his parents.
The United States is asking for 3,000,000 pints of blood. The quota for 
Pittsburgh is 2,000 pints a week. The process is entirely painless for the 
donor. Except for a slight weakness immediately after the donation, no 
ill-efTects are experienced.
By giving blood for the armed forces, college students will have an op­
portunity to contribute to the war effort in a practical and direct way.W. W. H.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the 
staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not 
to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh, Pa.
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2600 PHONE SCHENLEY 4557
EstsepA ron soeinsod oAMp.eiDisH aM After Office Hours Call
National Advertising Service, Inc. Editor-in-chief....................................sc. 9070
CoUege Publishers Representative Business Manager....................................SC. 9855
The Carngit Vol. 3l6 Ni4A. t. N.Chicago • bo.to« . los a*«lis • 5*« f«a«i*co Advertising Manager............................BR. 4759
Entered as second-class matter in the Pittsburgh Post Office under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Published weekly during school year, except holidays and examination periods.
Subscription Price $1.10 per year.
Editor-in-Chief.................................................................................................Leonard Chotiner
Business Manager.................................................................................................Ted Nierenberg
Co-Managing Editors.............................................................................................William C. KingJack Shore
Co-Copy Editors..................................................................................................Walter W. HallerStanley A. Rosecrans
Staff Secretaries................................... .............................................................................Pat ElmanJeanne King
Sports Editor................................................................................................................Don Watkins
Personnel Manager............................................................................................Melvin H. Snyder
Advertising Manager..............................................................................................Wilbur Thomas
Circulation Manager..............................................................................................Seymore WeissStaff Artist.......................................................................................................................Elliott Twery
Staff Photographer.............................................................................................. .Edward Munyer
Business Staff: Jerry Jacobs, Morry Rosecrans, Martha Wagman, S. Spangler.
Junior Editors: Helena Aronson, Doreen Barry, Walt Darby, Gerry Edelson, T. J.
Harmany, Dave Neuss, Louise Saul, Elaine Levin.
*7<4e fyacuihf. Viewpoint
Social Relations Program Does Not 
Retard Student Wartime Efficiency
The following article by Mr. Chworowsky is the second of a series in­
stituted to present the faculty viewpoint. Problems that the author raises 
have beleagured students for some time, and we gladly present this com­
prehensive evaluation.
“An efficient student” may be de- world crisis, may be restated as fol- 
fined as one who knows what he is lows:
expected to do and who goes about 1. Students owe it to the coun- 
his work without wasting time or try to prepare themselves to render 
energy. Such a definition is, how- the most effective aid in their power 
ever, not so simple in its meaning when and if they are called to duty 
as it may appear on first reading, by the authorities. Effectiveness 
Especially is it the case today when will be enhanced if each student un- 
most of our institutions of higher derstands not only the dangers con- 
learning are accelerating their pro- fronting the nation, but also what 
grams of study. While it is true issues are involved in this world- 
that this speeding up of the teach- wide struggle, how they came to a 
ing and learning is the elimination head, and what the outcome might 
of vacation periods, holidays, ex- be or ought to be. 
amination periods and not necessar- 2. There is plenty of evidence to
ily a telescoping in less time of justify the position President Do-
what was formerly taught in longer herty has taken that the usual col- 
periods, it still remains apparent lege course in any of the various
that what was formerly done in specialized branches of the social
four years is now to be done in a sciences, especially as usually 
little over two years, the impression taught, is not calculated to develop 
will b£ created that greater ef- the student an increasingly ef­
ficiency in his study habits will be fective approach to the social prob-
required of the student if he is to iems which confront people today, 
succeed with ihe new program, because the problems are not ex- 
When the accelerated programs perienced in compartmentalized seg- 
were first announced, there was ments in which they have usually 
much discussion among students been studied.
and faculty members as to the wis- g While it would simplify mat- 
dom of dropping certain subjects ters much if we could band all our 
which were not deemed essential to efforts to win the war and forget 
the realization of the accelerated about everything else until this 
program. If, in the case of engi- prime objective was realized, the 
neering schools, the students were nature of the present conflict is too 
to complete their courses earlier to intimately bound up with the com- 
make available the sorely needed pjex thrust of living as it rushes 
technically trained men, then, it headlong from the past, through the 
was argued why should we not for present, into the future that we 
the time being eliminate all courses, must all strive to the utmost to see 
such as the social studies, to give the fast developing situation as a 
the student more time to do his sci- whole and not permit ourselves to 
entific-technical work, and perhaps, lose our sense of perspective while 
take an extra elective or so in his we struggle with might and main 
chosen technical field. The answer to defeat the enemy as soon as 
to this argument that the courses of possible.
study were not to be changed, but por the essence of the matter 
merely completed in a faster stride seems to be that we are living in 
may have described the situation, the midst of a transitional period 
but hardly explained to the stu- in the development of human cul- 
dent why no changes were to be ture. Ours is the supreme task to 
made. win the war and to help usher in
Yet if a student is to do an ef- a new stage in the age-old struggle 
ficient job, it cannot be questioned of man to achieve a higher, a more 
that he ought to know not only humanized, culture. Verily, we are 
what is expected of him, but why living through revolutionary days.,
he is asked, for example, to take a 4. The transitional period
course in social studies when there through which the world is now 
is a crying need for the greatest passing will require the fullest use 
possible number of the best possible of scientific-technological heritage, 
technically trained men in the but even more it will require a cori- 
shortest possible time? centration on the social aspects of
To raise this question at C. I. T. evolving life with all the intellect- 
and to suggest an answer seems like ual resources we can bring to bear 
carrying coals to Newcastle. The upon them.
present senior class is the first If the foregoing points carry any 
group that has had the full Social weight, the standard by which any 
Relations Program. But even the student must evalutate his efficiency 
seniors have often found it difficult is the difficult one which emerges 
to appreciate the courses in the pro- from this discussion. In a ieyr 
gram which they have had. Some words, each student must ask him- 
would have preferred that less time self am I growing in ability to take 
had been devoted to the social my place as a responsible citizen in 
studies, while other would have the new world that is struggling to 
preferred the separate courses in be born? Vague as such a standard 
economics, history, government, is, one thing we can be sure of, 
psychology, and literature. namely, that as we strive to clarify
The apparent speeding up of the our knowledge and ideas of what is 
engineering program is likely to ob- happening and what can happen in 
scure in the student’s mind the real the immdeiate future we shall grow 
reasons for the introduction of the in ability to contribute our share 
Social Relations Program in the to the realization of the ideals which 
first place. These reasons, inter- will gradually become clearer and 
' preted in the light of the present clearer.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29,1942THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
Community Fund To 
Feature Five Freedoms 
At Regent Oct. 18
A fifth Freedom has been added 
to the four President Roosevelt ex­
pounded a few weeks ago in his 
declaration. This is the Freedom 
to Give, which, coupled with the 
Freedom from Fear, Want, of Re­
ligion, and Speech will be the key­
note of the annual Pageant of the 
Community Fund. This year the 
major war relief organizations are 
also sponsoring the Pageant, which 
will be enacted by eight thousand 
Pittsburghers at Forbes Field on 
Sunday, October 18.
Tech’s part is upheld by the dra­
matic director, Douglas McLean of 
the Drama Department; Assistant 
Professor of Music, Frederick Dor­
ian, who will direct the music; and 
Assistant Professor Lazio Gabor, in­
structor of architecture, who will do 
the sets. Plus these specialized di­
rectors are Norman Rutkin, a for­
mer Tech physics student, who will 
take care of the technical end of 
the production; John Shiliano of 
KDKA in charge of sound effects; 
and Genevieve Jones in charge of 
dancing. Elizabeth Gilbert KoskofT 
has written the script.
The general director of the ex­
tra vaganze is John Harkrider, Hol­
lywood productionist. Working with 
Florenz Ziegfeld, he did the cos­
tumes and handled the musical 
ideas for such classics as “Whoopee” 
and “The Roman Scandals.”
This pageant is unlike its pred­
ecessors in size and scope, the 
Navy Relief, USO, British, Rus­
sian Chinese, Dutch, Polish, and 
Greek relief organizations are par­
ticipating.
Maggie Murph Frosh 
Receive Class Colors
Today, at 11:30, the freshman 
girls of Margaret Morrison College 
will assume their role as active 
members of this campus as they re­
ceive their class colors. In an im­
pressive ceremony, each girl who 
has successfully passed her tradi­
tions exams, will be awarded her 
class ribbons and button. The pro­
gram is to be held in Fine Art’s Lit­
tle Theatre and will be highlighted 
by an address from Dr. Charles 
Watkins, Director of Margaret Mor­
rison. This will be the first chance 
that the freshmen will have to learn 
the results of the recent exam and 
all are asked to attend.
Color day, which should be an 
epochal event in every freshman’s 
life, has been as traditional as the 
Kilties at Tech. Stodgy, stolid sen­
iors have the opportunity to leave 
the memoirs of their college career, 
with the enthusiastic and effer­
vescent freshman class.
Lei's go to
ISALY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM CONES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
C. S. EDMANPRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
one of the girls
Suzanne O’Brien
If you should hear any mention 
of sororities around Tech, just look 
about you and you will be sure to 
see Suzanne O’Brien somewhere in 
the thick of it. For besides being 
President of Intersorority Council 
and adoring every minute of it, Sue 
is Vice President of her own soror­
ity, Kappa Phi Delta, as well as its 
Rushing Chairman.
But don’t get the idea that soror­
ities are Sue’s only interest, because 
her activities are many and varied. 
In her junior year, she was an As­
sociate Editor of The Thistle, and 
was made a member of Alpha Chi 
Alpha, the National Journalistic 
Honorary for women.
Lovely, black-haired Sue is noted 
for her vivacity and for the 
twinklin’est brown eyes in captiv­
ity. And just to prove again its de­
votion to her, the student body 
made her one of the Queen’s Court 
to reign over its Fall Carnival. Its 
individual members may fall under 
the spell of her charm, too, but it is 
George Frey who is the owner of 
that huge Fraternity Pin she wears.
A senior in the Secretarial De­
partment of Maggie Murph, Sue 
confides that her biggest worry is
the course in Office Practice which 
sends her out to work every Thurs­
day. Her ambition to become a 
really good secretary, however, still 
remains intact, and we are confident 
that she just couldn’t miss anything 
she sets out to do. Our only com­
plaint is that she will be setting out 
too soon, for we will be losing Suzie, 
come December 19.
53. MiU Qa
R. O. T. C. Men Volunteer 
For Long Practice Hike
Although there were many vol­
unteers, Cadet Major Albert Borel- 
li of the Tech R. O. T. C. Signal 
Corps Batallion, was able to accept 
but twenty men for the fifty-two 
mile hike he has planned. Accord­
ing to Major Borelli, the main ob­
jective of the march is to acquaint 
the men with the problems of 
marching, camping, and to give 
them an idea of just what they will 
face as future officers.
Carrying a thirty or forty pound 
pack as well as field equipment, the 
men will march to Sergeant Dobb’s 
farm located eight miles south of 
Butler, Penna. Regardless of the 
weather conditions, the detail will 
leave the campus at 2:00 P. M. Fri­
day afternoon, October 2nd.
The Signal Corps men will arrive 
at Sergeant Dobb’s farm Saturday 
morning and conduct several field 
problems. Leaving their encamp­
ment Sunday morning, the group 
will cover the entire twenty-six 
miles back to campus by the same 
night.
Council Minutes
The meeting was called to order at 7:15 
p. m.
Absent: Messrs. Emberg, Fitzgerald,
Munyer, and the Misses Gehrett and Zonge.
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
Social Committee
Mr. Spitaleri moved for the approval 
of a petition from Scabbard and Blade 
to change the date of the Military Ball 
from October 10 to October 17, 1941.
Motion carried.
Mr. Spitaleri moved for the approval 
of a petition from the Citcom Clan for 
the use of Thistle Hall on September 26, 1942, for a barn dance.
Motion carried.
Mr. Van Arsdell suggested that Mr. 
Spitaleri ask the Cwens and Scimitars to 
combine their tea dance in order to avoid 
crowding the tea-dance schedule.
Mr. Spitaleri moved for the acceptance 
of a petition from the Women’s Guild to 
change the date of their dance from 
March 13, 1943, to November 21, 1942, 
with a recommendation that the motion 
be defeated.
Motion defeated.
NEW BUSINESS
Mr. Van Arsdell appointed Mr. McDon­
ald to take charge of the Pep Rally to be 
held Friday, September 25, 1942, and 
asked for the whole-hearted support of 
Student Council.
Mr. Reisacher moved that Student 
Council establish the following policy 
regarding social events for the fall se­
mester of 1942: Any all-campus events
are -to be held until no later than one 
o’clock on Saturday night. Fraternity and 
group parties may be held until twelve 
o’clock on Friday and until one o’clock 
on Saturday.
Motion carried.
Adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
LUCILLE ORR, Secretary.
COLLEGE MEN*. GET OUT IN FRONT
euv
? The DARTMOUTH
Rugged lines well suit 
the fine, flexible leath­
er of this moccasin« 
type blucher oxford 
Comfortable,a typical 
Douglas value. Style 
No. 4554.
The ETON
A military type shoe In 
rich brown leather. 
Comfortable plain toe; 
strap and buckle. A 
popular style in step 
with the times. Style 
No. 4538.
Douglas Deum-to-tbe- Wocdu construct!«m assurti you brtitf fit — greater comfort.
203 FIFTH AVENUE
*417-19 East Ohio St., N. S. *6223 Frankstown Ave. (E. Liberty) 
1202 Market St., Wheeling *Open Evenings

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1942
Phi Kappa Phi, Scholastic Honorary, 
Holds Initiation of New Members
Photo by Ed Munyer
Dinner for royalty at the D.U. house before the dance. Louise Zonge, Queen of 
the campus, sups with Gene Krupa, King of the drums; Ray Eberle, Prince of song; 
and James Boyce, Bishop of Carnival. For complete coverage of Fall Carnival, see 
next week’s Tartanette.
A+vd <Sa to. Redt
Krupa Tops Second Day of Carnival; 
K. Q.’s Self and Surviving Techites
The Carnegie chapter of Phi Kap­
pa Phi, the national scholastic hon­
orary organization, held its induc­
tion banquet Saturday evening at 
the College Club. Not only were 
students from the three schools at 
Carnegie Tech initiated, but five 
faculty members were also granted 
membership. They are Mrs. C. 
Burnett, Dr. L. L. Dines, Dr. W. L. 
McCabe, Dr. J. V. O’Brien, and Dr. 
L. H. Schultz. Mrs. Burnett accept­
ed election to the organization on 
behalf of the faculty, Webster N. 
Jones, Jr., for the Engineering 
School; Frank A. Trapp, Art School, 
and Margaret Carver, Margaret 
Morrison. Dr. Watkins, President 
of Margaret Morrison College, was 
the main speaker of the evening 
with his talk on the Value of Schol­
arship.
Membership in Phi Kappa Phi is 
limited to students with high scho­
lastic standing. Candidates are 
chosen in their senior year and not 
more than 10 per cent of the class 
are elected. Phi Kappa Phi is dif­
ferent from any other national hon­
orary organization in that students 
in any department or course of 
study are eligible for membership 
What should be of particular sig­
nificance to Tech students is the
journal which Phi Kappa Phi pub­
lishes quarterly and which prints a 
number of articles written by peo­
ple from this campus.
Engineering—Graduate Students 
Burton Jay Cherney, George Julian 
Dienes, Thomas Ernest Leontis.
Undergraduate Students 
George M. Anderson, Hugo A. Barbian, 
Jack L. Bowers, Theodore A. Burtis, Carl
E. Champion, John N. Datesh, Robert L. 
Dietrich, Herbert E. Elliott, Xenophon E. 
Eugenedes, Edward L. Fireman, Millard
F. Gordon, Melvin W. Green, Stephen H. 
Harwig, Lawrence D. Hindall, John D. 
Horth, Webster N. Jones, Jr., William C. 
King, Harry C. Ledebur, Edward A. 
Machara, Frank N. McClure Louis L, 
Moorman, James E. O’Neill, Alan Perlis, 
Stanley A. Rosecrans, Emile Rutner, Paul 
A. Smudski, Robert J. Tennant, John C. 
Van Arsdell, Jr., Willard W. Wecker, 
Leonard K. Williams, Max L. Williams, 
Jr.
Margaret Morrison College— 
Graduate Students 
Ruth A. Succop.
Undergraduate Students 
Elizabeth A. Buckman, Margaret A. 
Carver, Rachel A. Comer, Margarette 
Gorbach, Mary J. Jones, Eloise M. Law- 
thers, Ruth A. Mervis, Meryl E. Pincus, 
Ruth M. Rotzler, Susan J. Rugg, Mary E. 
Stitt, Lillian Udman, Elizabeth M. 
Weaver.
College of Fine Arts 
Robert A. Drumm, Marjorie C. Kemp, 
Allen E. Kubach, William Mihalik, Alice 
M. Morgan, Harold D. Pickering, New- 
son H. Shewitz, Walter Tischuk, Frank 
A. Trapp, Richard E. Williams.
Screaming women, submarine 
Betas, howling barkers, “Have you 
bought your Defense Corsage?,” 
fainting gals, sweating males, cokes 
poured down people’s backs, and 
lots of hur-rey, hur-rey, hur-rey; 
not a commando raid, just the first 
night of the 1942 Fall Carnival! 
Tommy Carlin’s band was on hand 
just in case things became dull . . . 
and that was only the beginning of 
the week-end.
Saturday developed into a great 
day for the outdoor division of Car­
nival and after waiting five or six 
hours, Tech got its first glimpse of 
the 1942 model jallopies. The women 
went for the Pi K A’s jeep but the 
dorm men had their hearts set on 
their entrant, a real super-duper 
model—but it lacked the necessary 
speed! The dorm jallopy was con­
structed by laying Scobellite Stan 
Shiller on a board and then building 
around him. It is rumored that he 
was fed through a straw until post 
time. When they finally pried him 
out after the race, he had grown a 
beard and knitted four sweaters for 
the American soldiers in Ireland. 
Finally the great moment arrived 
when “Queenie, queen of them all” 
Louise Zonge received her crown 
from venerable Jimmie Boyce. The 
five-year-old flower girls stole the 
show from the queen when they 
poured gallons of rose petals over 
the assembled throngs and then 
nestled in the Queen’s throne. 
Queen Louise’s youthful scepter 
bearer carried on as Tech settled 
down for the new queen’s reign; 
tyranny in the Zonge manner—me 
for that |
Saturday night and Gene Krupa
—what else could one ask for? Mary 
and John Tech were awed by the 
ace drummer man as he slowly, but 
surely, proceeded to beat himself 
to a pulp! They sighed with Anita 
O’Day and collapsed in unison to 
Roy Eldridge’s trumpet tootin’. 
After the week-end’s hectic activity, 
the unanimous opinion was, “Oh for 
the draft and a nice quiet army 
camp!”
Camouflage Course 
To Be Offered Here
A limited number of qualified 
students will be enrolled at Car­
negie Tech in a course in “Civilian 
Camouflage” which will open Octo­
ber 5, under the supervision of Pro­
fessor Raymond A. Fisher of the 
Department of Architecture, and 
George Kimberly, technical di­
rector, Department of Drama. 
Classes will be held Monday and 
Friday evenings from 7:30 to 10:30, 
through November 27.
Students will include men en­
gaged in design and construction of 
buildings, graduate engineers, grad­
uate architects, registered profes­
sional engineers and registered 
architects. The course is designed 
for the purpose of training urgent­
ly needed professional personnel to 
whom protective concealment prob­
lems may be referred, in the event 
that a changed or critical material 
situation should point to increased 
activity in Civilian Camouflage. In­
formation will be given which will 
qualify those taking the course to 
prepare plans in accordance with 
principles established by the Office 
of Civilian Defense.
"TWUMPH" Jtifobm FeoHiertooeh 
fewmbK $17.50. In CREST De«e«, $21.00
COURAGE COMES IN ENVELOPES
Being opart from familiar surroundings and loved ones is a trial; it 
saps moral«. But oH that is erased—the day is bright and the job is 
light—when letters arrive daily, penned m fomiiar handwriting! That's 
• Sfceaffer pen's duty in this war.
Sheaffer's "TRIUMPH" is the newest pen. We
began developing it four years before the entry of the 
t United States into war. At that time "TRIUMPH” was
•ndergoing final rigorous tests by land and sea. It has 
been sold throughout 1942. Fortunately, proctkalty all 
of the materials in "TRIUMPH" are of least critical nature 
. . . Men and women in all walks of tile wlH value this 
essential gift, now ond always, 
ufki e • e
-ONTN io*r Drop Note: Fuel ai pens carefully. Sheaffer’s SKRtP is kind 
to the rubber ond other critical parts of pens—makes 
aH pens write better ond last longer. W. A. SHEAFFBt 
PEN CO., Fort Modtson, Iowa.
SHCAFFER MENS, ALL 
COLORS, $2.75 TO $2».
“MAGIC otctr* 
CAM Soûle *r eo*
¿KR1P, MCtMNT to.Mu r-pufrti ait«, 2Sc 
—Begeèer ri**, 15c.
*0pei
SHEAFFER5Tw<—..t Um. C- ». r»i ott
DOUBLE-LENGTH 
FINELINE LEADS— 
Finer, smoother, rtroag«r.< 
ftegwtar PVfl, 15«. Eco* oanrPkg*29fr
Good/Drafting Comes Easier
....to the man who uses MICROTOMIC 
"VAN DYKE" Drawing Pencils with their
HI-DENSITY LEAD___For school work they
have the notable advantage of drawing lines 
that are easy to erase, and are more gener­
ally smudge proof.... At your supply store.
EBERHARD FABER
/ltad«tikip in vine whitinc materials since is«*

---------------------------------------------------

ITS STRICTLY CAMELS i 
WITH ME. I FIND THEM 
FAR AND AWW/ MILDER. I 
ALWAYS ENJOY THAT 
L SWELL TASTE! J
where 
cigarettes 
are judged
The 'T-ZONE'—Taste and 
Throat — is the proving 
ground for cigarettes. Only 
your taste and throat can de­
cide which cigarette tastes 
best to you... and how it af­
fects your throat. For your 
taste and throat are indi­
vidual to you. Based on the 
experience of millions of 
smokers, we believe Camels 
will suit your "T-ZONE" to 
a Prove it for yourself!
&. J. Bcvnoldi Tobacco Company. Winston-Sslem. North Carottas
Senior Interviews . , .
The following companies will 
have representatives here to inter­
view seniors concerning employ­
ment:
Tuesday, September 29, and 
Wednesday, September 30 
Goodyear Tire and Rubber: Me­
chanical, Chemical, Electrical, Civil, 
Management, and Metallurgical. 
Thursday, October 1, and 
Friday, October 2 
Firestone: Chemists, Chemical,
Mechanical, and Management. 
Monday, October 5 
Glenn L. Martin Company: all
engineers.
Seniors interested in securing em­
ployment with any of these com­
panies must sign up for interviews 
in room 155A Administration.
The following additional compan­
ies are interested in receiving appli­
cations from seniors by mail: 
United States Gypsum Co., Chi­
cago, Illinois; Standard Oil Co. of 
New Jersey—interested in Chem­
ical, Electrical and Mechanical en­
gineers for work in Aruba, Nether­
lands, West Indies; George J. Meyer 
Mfg. Co., Milwaukee, Wisconsin- 
Management, Mechanical; Irving­
ton Varnish and Insulator Co., Irv­
ington, New Jersey — Chemical,
Sunday Chapel Held 
In Little Theater
A Sunday morning chapel, spon­
sored by the Y. M. C. A. and C. W. 
C. A., will be held every other week 
at 9:45 A. M. in the Little Theater, 
Fine Arts Building. There will be 
guest speakers, and special music 
will be provided by students from 
the Music Department.
This past week, in a successful 
session, Richard Barrett, M’45, sang 
for the group. The next meeting 
will be held on Sunday morning, 
October 11. Dorm students are es­
pecially urged to attend, as chapel 
is over early enough so that the 
students may then attend their reg­
ular church services.
This new chapel has held a num­
ber of very successful meetings. 
Programs are planned so that they 
will be of interest to the students.
Electrical, Mechanical; Demsey In­
dustrial Furnace Corp., Springfield, 
Mass.; Boeing Aircraft Co., Seattle, 
Washington; Aviation Engineering, 
Inc., Atlanta, Ga. — Aeronautical; 
Brewster Aeronautical Corp., Johns- 
ville, Pa. — Aeronautical, Mechan­
ical, Civil; Springfield Bronze and 
Aluminum Co., Springfield, Mass.— 
Metallurgical.
Student War Loan Thistle Pictures ...Funds Are Available A11 seniors who have not been 
The present funds available for scheduled for their Thistle pictures 
student loans at Carnegie Institute may UP f°r picture appoint-
of Technology have been supple- ments this week in Room 17> Ad‘ 
mented by a generous grant of gov- ministration Hall, from 11:30 to 
ernment money, according to word 1;30. The price this year is $2.00. 
received yesterday by Carnegie of- Those who wish to have the Thistle 
ficials from Kendric N. Marshall, sent mail when is released in 
Director of the Student War Loans the sPrinS wil1 PaY an additional 
Program mailing fee of 25 cents.
Engineering students and those in ^he Thistle staff has scheduled
Physics and Chemistry, who attend- the f°U°wing group pictures for the 
ed the summer accelerated courses, 1943 Yearbook. All pictures will 
are eligible to participate in the Stu- taken at the Student Union, ex­
dent War Loans. The loans are to cePt those of the Fraternities and•4. i . . ,u . the Dormitories, which will bepermit the student to carry their , , , . .. .,
work to June 30, 1943 or to complete taken at thelr resPectIve residences.
the curriculum in which they are Sunday, October 4
enrolled on or before June 30, 1943. 2:00 Beta Theta Pl Actives
Within the law, Carnegie Tech 2:15-Beta Theta Pi Pledges 7
will distribute the funds at its dis- 2:30—Beta Sigma Rho Actives
cretion and will also administer the 2:45 Beta Rho Pledges
repayment program. 3;0()—Delta Upsilon Actives
In addition, the Office of Financial 3:15 Delta Upsilon Pledges
Aid to Students has application 3:30—Sigma Nu Actives
blanks ready for students who de- 3:45—Sigma Nu Pledges
sire N. Y. A. and Part Time work. 4:00—Kappa Sigma Actives j
The department also requests that 4:15—Kappa Sigma Pledges
all students make a report of their 4:30—Tau Delta Phi Actives
summer earnings. 4:45—Tau Delta Phi Pledges
W$ 5
IN THE NAVY j*
%OOT*for recruit « »*
*HITTHE DECK' for get on the job 
"SMOKING LAMPS LIT/for smoking permitted 
CAMEL" for their favorite cigarette
• With men in the Navy, Army, Marines, and Coast Guard, 
the favorite cigarette is Camel. (Based on actual sales records 
in Canteens and Post Exchanges.) ¿y m
^sssssssssssssssssssssss
first 
in the 
service.
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29,1942 THE CARNEGIE TÂKTAA

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1942
. . . Off Th€ Cuff . • .
Carnival was a big success, in 
spite of the rain.
Eileen Letchworth’s Beta from 
Renn State came up for Carnival, 
and she returned the compliment 
by visiting him for house parties 
last week-end.
Mike Bosak, now an aviation 
cadet in the Navy, was home last 
week and made it a point to see 
Eleanor Wilson. Lucille Orr and 
Nelson Crooks have now made it 
official—she’s wearing his pin.
Ginny Bruce became engaged to 
Lieutenant (TX) Richard Walker 
in a very romantic way—his mother 
gave her the ring because he’s way 
out in California.
All you Maureen Dyer fans may 
start moving in. She and Jack 
Woodside are no longer going 
steady.
Last week we mentioned Tistie 
Weaver and A1 Platt as a couple 
frequently seen together. She’s 
wearing his D. U. pin now.
Seen at Carnival: Aleta Cornelius 
—Bob Cowie; Dotsie Ellen—Mark 
Hennenger; Doris Bickel — Bill 
Shephard.
Dick Wilson dated Marion Davies 
last Friday and Saturday nights, 
and for the game, too. Is this a 
monopoly?
Two freshmen seen together fre­
quently are pretty Louise Koenig 
(Bill’s little sister) and Rod 
Greene.
We see that George Van Nort, is 
now wearing Babs Griscom’s Beta 
Pi pin. Well, fair exchange is no 
robbery.
Secure Cards Now 
For Beegle Series
Students interested in the wide­
ly-varied May Beegle concerts may 
secure their identification cards for 
the special rates on this series now. 
The ticket sale has already begun 
at the May Beegle Office, 551 Union 
Trust Building, and at Mellor’s, 604 
Wood Street. Prices are $5.00, $6.00, 
$7.50, and $8.50 for seven evenings.
The May Beegle Symphony 
Series of four concerts by visiting 
orchestras—two by the Philadel­
phia Orchestra with Ormandy con­
ducting and two by the Boston 
Symphony with Koussevitzsky con­
ducting—are also available to stu­
dents at reduced rates. There will 
be a special reduction for anyone 
buying both sets.‘University of Life’ 
Begins October 18
The University of Life is the 
name of a newly formed discussion 
group for young men and women 
of Pittsburgh. The founder is John 
V. Morris, Assistant Minister at 
Bellefield Presbyterian Church.
Students arrive from four to five 
and converse with new friends, 
play games, listen to good music, or 
just make themselves at home un­
til 5:00 when a light lunch is taste­
fully served at a cost of fifteen 
cents. The discussion hour starts at 
six and is brought to a close 
promptly at seven o’clock.
The opening session is on Octo­
ber 18. All students are invited to 
attend the Registration Supper on 
October 11 from four to seven P. 
M. at Bellefield Presbyterian 
Church. Reservations for this 15 
cent supper should be phoned to the 
church office, MA. 5626, by 5:30 P. 
M. Thursday, October 8.
Cartoon by Elliott Twery
Group Discusses Far East
The Carnegie Discussion Group, 
under the chairmanship of Walter 
Berl, will today sponsor a discus­
sion on “Problems of the Far East.” 
All Carnegie students are invited to 
attend the discussion.
HOTEL WEBSTER [ 
HALL
Available For !
PRIVATE PARTIES !
BANQUETS 
SWIMMING PARTIES
MAyflower 7700 •
Fifth near Mellon Institute ;
Bamboo Gardens .t]
3531 FORBES STREET
Delicious Chinese and American 
Food Is Served 
Special Meals At Moderate Prices 
Luncheon Served From 11-3 P. M. 
35c and up 
Dinner Served From 5-9 P. M.
55c and up 
Also Special Rates For Parties
SYRIA
MOSQUEMau ßeetfU. Gosicesiti
Seven
Evenings
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 10“LA BOHEME” OPERA
Metropolitan Cast and Orchestra 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 16RACHMANINOFF
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 5MONTE CARLO BALLET
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16HELEN TRÄUBEL
World’s Foremost Soprano 
‘Magnetizes Audience with her Voice”
SATURDAY, JANUARY 23RUSSIAN DON COSSACKS
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19CARMEN AMAYA
And Company of South American Dancers and Musicians
FRIDAY, MARCH 19LAWRENCE TIBBETT
The net proceeds from the Tibbett Concert will 
be donated to the Army Emergency Relief Fund
SPECIAL STUDENT RATE SALE 
NOW ON AT MELLOR'S 
604 Wood Street 
UNTIL OCTOBER 5
Prices $5.00, $6.00, $7.50 and $8.50
To secure these rates secure an identification card from yonr school 
and present at box office at Mellor’s Music Store, 604 Wood Street 
between 9 and 5 daily (except 11:00 and 11:30 lunch-time).
Consult box office for special combination rates on 
both series.
Helen Träubel
SumpitMUf.
Go*1C&ltl
By Visiting Orchestras
Pittsburgh Orchestra Association 
Auspices
Mrs. William Thaw, Jr., President 
May Beegle, Manager 
1942—Twenty-seventh Season—1943 
Four Concerts at Syria Mosque
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA
ORMANDY, Conductor
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 12BOSTON SYMPHONY
KOUSSEVITZKY, Conductor
SUNDAY, DECEMBER IS, AT 3 P. M.BOSTON SYMPHONY
KOUSSEVITZKY, Conductor
(Different Program) 
SATURDAY, MAY 1PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA
ORMANDY, Conductor
(REQUEST PROGRAM)
Special Student Rates for the 
Visiting Orchestras 
11.20, $1.25, $2.20, $2.30, $3.10 and $4.40
Course tickets for 4 events, $2, $2.50, 
$3.00, $3.50, $4.50, $6. $9 and $12.
*1040*1 eJiail 
JlectuA&i
Four Evenings at Carnegie 
Music Hall
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4FULTON LEWIS, JR.
America’s No. 1 Commentator on National Affairs.
Subject—"What’s Happening in Washington” 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17DOROTHY THOMPSON
Brilliant Journalist and Molder of PnbUe 
Opinion.
Subject—“These Crucial Days” 
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 8PIERRE VAN PAASSEN
Celebrated Foreign Correspondent and Anthor
"Days of Our Years,” "The Time fa Now” 
"That Day Alone”
Subject—"The War of the Hemispheres” 
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17MARGARET BOURKE-WHITE
One of World’s Greatest Photographers 
Recently returned from Russia
Subject—“Eyes on Russia”
All Lectures Will Be Followed by 
QUESTION & ANSWER Period
POPULAR PRICES: Series «6.00. $5.00, $4.00,
S3.00, $2.00. Tickets for Individual Events 75c 
to $1.50; except for Dorothy Thompson prices 
will be $1.00 to $2.00.
(Add 10% tax to all series and single prices.) 
Sale NOW at May Beegle Office, 561 Union 
Trust Building, ATlantic 8051. ani Mellor’s, 
604 Wood Street, ATlantic 3783.
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
IgONA
ALL
MAKES
st*hùa~ ,
:¦ $3.00 per
Month
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
An Invitation 
• To Browse 
•To Buy 
• To Borrow
Contemporary 
Books
440 WOOD STREET
•
Unusual Art and Record 
Collection

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29,1942THE CARNEGIE TARTAN7
ßcui jbotf tf-Q*. Scot*.
Tartan Gridders Drop Opener, 26-0 
As Geneva College Triumphs
In keeping with the dull overcast 
sky at Pitt Stadium last Saturday 
afternoon, the Tech Tartans open­
ed their 1942 season by being de­
feated 26-0 at the hands of little 
Geneva College. Only a handful, 
some 4,000, of loyal Tech fans sat 
through the discouraging play of 
their ball club, which again was 
beaten in its opening game. Also, 
this is the second straight year the 
Coventers have taken the measure 
of the Tartans.
Probably the most noticeable de­
fect in the play of the Tartans was 
the lack of spirit and zip of the first 
two teams, and it seemed as though 
the whole squad suffered a bad case 
of opening day jitters. The Tar­
tan forward wall was badly out­
played by the Geneva line until 
the third period, when the Skibo 
lads began to show some of the ball 
they are capable of playing.
Here is a short snyopsis of the 
game by quarters.
First Quarter 
Don Burn’s kickoff was received 
by Geneva on their own 39 yard 
line, and after two line plays 
failed to gain much yardage, a 32 
yard pass from Quarterback Perz 
to Left End Steffler put the ball on 
the Tartan 26. A series of line 
bucks netted Geneva a first down 
on the Tech 16, and still another 
first down was made on the two fol­
lowing plays, the ball being then on 
the 6 yard line of Carnegie. Bruno 
then turned the Skibo left end for 
the touchdown, and the place kick 
for the extra point was good, mak­
ing the score 7-0 in favor of Gene­
va. The initial score took the Co­
venters less than four minutes to 
climax their 61 yard march. Car­
negie took the ball on the kickoff, 
made a first down, then punted. 
Here Tech inserted an entire new 
team. Immediately after that, 
Kane, bruising Coventer fullback, 
intercepted Cantini’s attempted for­
ward pass and ran it back from the 
25 yard line to score Geneva’s sec­
ond touchdown. The try for the ex­
tra point failed, the score then be­
ing 13-0.
Second Quarter 
Taking the ball on downs after 
the second quarter opened, Tech 
was forced to punt, grounding the 
ball on the Geneva 20. Here Ver- 
ner, Tartan center, recovered* Perz’s 
fumble and Tech was given its first 
scoring opportunity. The punch 
was lacking in the running attack 
and two passes also failed. Geneva 
took the ball on downs, and after 
making five consecutive first downs, 
put the ball in play on the Tartan
15. The Skibos were determined 
that Geneva was not to score here, 
but a last down pass was deflected 
into the arms of Bruno instead of 
being knocked down. A bad play 
it was, for it put Geneva out in 
front by a count of 19-0.
Third Quarter 
After kicking off and taking a 
Geneva punt on their own 31 yard 
line, the Skibos began to roll for 
the first time in the game, display­
ing some real offensive power and 
spirit. Checking off three consecu­
tive first downs, the local boys had 
to give up the ball on the Geneva 
24. Geneva then punted, and the
Tartans again landed in scoring ter­
ritory through a 21 yard pass from 
MacLaughlin to Fritz. The ball was 
then advanced down to the Geneva 
20, where Geneva again took the 
ball on downs. Geneva’s punt was 
partially blocked and Tech took 
over on the Geneva 40. A line buck 
by Byers, an 11 yard pass from 
MacLaughlin to Hurst, and three 
more yards by Byers gave the Tar­
tans a first down on the Geneva 25 
yard line.
Fouth Quarter
Here the Skibos were again stop­
ped when Bruno intercepted an in­
tended pass to Hurst. Geneva punt­
ed to midfield and took the ball on 
their own 43 as the Tartans failed 
to complete a last down pass. Gene­
va again punted to the Carnegie 17, 
and in the next series of plays Gene­
va intercepted a pass by MacLaugh­
lin on the Tech 40 and ran it back 
to the Tartan 24. A Coventer pass 
netted them a first down on the Tar­
tan 9. On the third play Geneva 
scored the fourth and final touch­
down, converted the extra point, 
and made the score 26-0.
Westminister Next Week
Next Saturday the boys take on 
Westminster at New Castle, Penn­
sylvania. Opening the season last 
year against the Titans, Carnegie 
dropped a 19-13 decision. It is ex­
pected that the team will make a 
much better showing next week 
than they did this week.
W. A. A. News
By Mary Polis
As part of this year’s women’s 
sports program, W. A. A. is spon­
soring an intramural sports tourna­
ment. Included in this program are 
basketball, tennis, badminton, vol­
leyball, and swimming. This is an 
opportunity for sororities, depart­
mental clubs, Citcom, and even the 
freshmen to win personal acclaim. 
Of course the fun alone is worth 
going out for the activities.
The organization accumulating 
the greatest number of points in all 
the events, will be awarded a cup at 
the end of the season. Keep watch­
ing the Tartan and the bulletin 
boards at Margaret Morrison for 
any more information and an­
nouncements of the date for the 
first intramural contest.
Intramural Football . . .
Last Tuesday the intramural pro­
gram got under way a little late, but 
with the usual excitement and sup­
port. The schedule is turned up­
side down because of the late start­
ing time; the postponed games will 
be played off whenever the oppor­
tunity offers itself. For this reason 
it is important that all teams watch 
the intramural bulletin board for 
any changes or additions in the 
schedule.
There is a rule pending in the in­
tramural office. The Physical Wel­
fare Committee has suggested to the 
Intramural Board that a ruling bar­
ring body blocks from touch foot­
ball. The Intramural Board op­
poses this on the ground that it 
would rob the sport of much of its 
interest and enjoy ability.
Soccer Outlook 
Fair For 1942
Running into their third week of 
practice, the Tartan Booters seem 
to be making definite progress in 
spite of the fact that the team is 
relatively inexperienced. Coach 
Pat O’Connor has been drilling the 
squad in the fundamentals of the 
game, including kicking, heading, 
and passing. At the same time the 
team has been scrimmaging every 
afternoon at which time the Up­
perclassmen scrimmage the Fresh­
men. This year there are a great 
many freshman out for the team as 
compared with previous years.
Ostensibly, the Skibo Booters 
should turn in a better performance 
for their efforts than the Soccer 
team did last year. Last year the 
Tartans had a strong backfield but 
were handicapped by a weak for­
ward line. A review of the scores 
of last years encounters will some­
what verify this statement since 
the Booters lost all of their games 
by a very small margin, usually, a 
mere one or two points. This year 
the forward line seems to hold fair 
promise of improving since there 
are more experienced players in 
those positions.
The official Soccer season does not 
open until October 17. The school 
we play at this time has not been 
announced as yet.
Cross Country Team 
Looks Forward To 
Successful Season
Last week the Tech harriers turn­
ed out en masse for the first practice 
meet. The Cross Country team ap­
pears to be one of the best in re­
cent years. With veterans such as 
Ben Puchaski, Nick Teresi, Ben 
Marcin, and Don Valentour as a 
nucelous around which to form a 
team, Guy Halferty is anticipating 
a strong squad. Bolstering the al­
ready large varsity team, are the 
freshmen. From all indications the 
freshmen will be competing for 
positions on the varsity, and it is 
very likely that some boys will be 
running with the varsity. Both 
Greene and Alexander, freshmen 
runners, look to be good varsity ma­
terial.
In the practice meet last Friday, 
the team made a good showing. Al­
though the first meet is three weeks 
away, the team is in tip-top condi­
tion.
The first official meet of the sea­
son is with the fast Pitt Harriers. 
The Pitt meet is perhaps the tough­
est meet of the season for the Tech 
boys. The Pitt team has always 
proven to be one of the best in the 
East, and led by Bill Curtis, ace 
miler, they offer a formidable ob­
stacle to our harrier. Since our team 
is not built around one man, it is 
very likely that the boys may take 
Pitt.
Are you the 
Daguerreotype or the Arrow Type 7
[j^EEP breathely and 
IjJJ picture yourself in 
one of Arrow’s new 
pride-swelling white 
shirts. They’re tops in 
authentic styling and 
sport a collar that made 
history. Sanforized-la- 
beled (fabric shrinkage 
less than 1%). Cost less 
than you’d expect.
$2.25 up
? BUY U. S. WAR BONDS AND STAMPS *
ARROW SHIRTS
TIES • COLLARS • HANDKERCHIEFS • UNDERWEAR • SPORT SHIRTS
LEONARD S MEN’S SHOP
CAMPUS HEADQUARTERS 
ARROW PRODUCTS
Corner Forbes at Atwood

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 19422The (fratuecjie plaid
Evening Student Council 
Plans Combined Elections
' The plan of three individual elec­
tion parties, as announced by the 
card given out at registration, has 
been abandoned. Although a com­
bined party last year met with 
much adverse criticism, a repetition 
of a combined party this year is a 
necessity. This is due mostly to the 
great decrease in enrollment which 
means that council’s revenue has 
been cut to 50 per cent of last year’s 
figure.
Another reason is that many of 
the former active students have 
been called to the service, or over­
time on defense work prevents 
their attending school. This means 
recruiting new students to partic­
ipate in campus activities while the 
shortness of time and inability to 
put out an issue of the “Carnegie 
Plaid” meant insufficient publicity 
Which prevented the students from 
becoming acquainted with these ac­
tivities.
Particularly hard hit by the de­
creased enrollment are Fine Arts 
and Industries, where the drop has 
been about 6 per cent. This, in 
particular, is cause for a drastic re­
vision in plans. Certainly, it would 
have been inadvisable to hold a sep­
arate election for only a mere hand­
ful of students.
Considering all, Council should 
not be too severely criticized in re­
verting to a combined election plan, 
but should receive the support of 
every student to help keep alive an 
organization that has tried hard to 
help the Evening Student.
Plans for the election party in­
clude entertainment, boxing, danc­
ing, singing and refreshments. All 
evening students, both male and fe­
male,of all the colleges are encour­
aged to attend the election. Ad­
mittance will be by registration 
card.
The time and place will be an­
nounced in next week’s issue of the 
“Plaid” and by posters on the bulle­
tin board.
Distribution of Plaid
The distribution of the “Carnegie 
Plaid” will be the same as last year. 
The papers will be put in the stands 
in the halls of Fine Arts, Engineer­
ing, Industries, Margaret Morrison 
and the Machinery Hall. Papers 
will come out on Tuesday of each 
week. Students are requested to 
get their paper from the stands and 
to encourage other students to do 
likewise.
Minimi
TOOL and DIE MAKING 
INSTRUMENT MAKING
Courses 3 to 12 Weeks
FOR MEN A. WOMEN 
Expert Individual Instruction 
Write, Phone or Call 9 a.m.-9:30p.m. 
— We employ no solicitors ------
METROPOLITAN
TECHNICAL
SCHOOL
260 W. 41 St.. N.V. LOngacre 3-2180Lkcased by State of New York
Swimming Is Open 
Wednesday Evenings 
For Night Students
Mixed swimming classes are be­
ing held for Night School students 
on Wednesday evenings from seven 
to ten-thirty. Last year’s Friday 
evening classes for men have been 
discontinued. The beautiful swim­
ming pool in the Gymnasium Build­
ing is one of the finest recreational 
facilities provided by the school and 
it is to be regretted that so few stu­
dents find it convenient to take ad­
vantage of it. The first four weeks 
are to be a trial period and the turn­
out will decide the advisability of 
continuing the classes throughout 
the school year, so if you like to 
swim and try to follow out the Pres­
ident’s admonition to “Keep Fit,” 
come out on Wednesday evening 
and enjoy an evening of invigorat­
ing exercise among your friends 
and classmates.
Enrollment Shows 
Fifty Percent Drop
War increasing the burden of de­
fense orders and overtime on the 
night school prospects; the steady 
flow of man-power into our Army, 
Navy and Air Force and the other 
branches of our armed services, and 
the uncertainty of when one may 
be called has cut the enrollment in 
all three colleges.
Engineering, Vocational and Fine 
Arts enrollments has been cut in 
half as compared to last year’s, with 
the Vocational College being hit the 
hardest with a decrease of 83 stu­
dents. Engineering College leads 
in the enrollment with 751. Fine 
Arts has 242 students enrolled.
The figures as compared with last 
year’s are—Engineering 75—1,205, 
Fine Arts 242—439, Industries (in­
cluding Margaret Morrison stu­
dents) 456—1,178. Total figures 
are 1,449 as compared with 2,822 for 
first semester of last year.
The Carnegie Plaid
Page edited by Evening School Students 
of Carnegie Institute of Technology. All 
views or opinions expressed in editorial 
column are not necessarily endorsed by 
the Editorial Board of the Day School 
Staff.Editor 
Nancy E. Lewis 
Associate Editor 
Robert C. King 
Staff
S. Marcinizyn D. Pettigrew, Jr.
FOR THE 
MILITARY BALL
ALPHA 
DRESS 
SUIT CO.
Complete Rental Service of 
Men’s Formal Clothes
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES 
PHONE AT. 1331 
3007 Jenkins Arcade
Workers Are Needed 
To Carry On Activities
Although »everyone is taxed for 
spare time, the Plaid must have a 
staff if it is to have a successful 
year, and we intend to have just 
that. We extend an invitation to all 
new students, as well as the faith­
ful old-timers, to come out and help.
If you don’t like to work just for 
the fun of it—then we have a pro­
position to make. Your efforts will 
not go unrewarded because for 
every hour that you spend as a 
member of the staff and for every 
article submitted, you will be given 
points to apply towards earning an 
Insignia Award.
Work periods are every Friday 
night at 8:30 and no previous writ­
ing experience is necessary.
We urge you to come out and 
guarantee that you will spend many 
enoyable hours here in The Union.
Barbara Burns Steps 
From Skibo To KDKA
This is a success story—how Babs 
Burns made it in two short steps 
from Skibo to KDKA. Towards the 
end of last August she was given an 
audition, and then, two weeks ago 
she was called again to be inter­
viewed for a part in Peaceful Val­
ley, a weekly show written by Mar­
garet Thoma and directed by 
Claude Morris.
Babs was told to appear at eight 
o’clock on the evening of Monday, 
September 21. Incidentally, the 
show goes on at ten thirty. Dra­
matic and musical parts are first re­
hearsed separately, according to 
veteran Babs, and then rehearsed 
in entirety just twice. Those five 
minutes of rest between practice 
and the actual broadcast seemed 
like fifty to our actress, who says 
she “was kind of scared during re­
hearsal but was too worried about 
doing things right and coming in 
on cue and not hitting the mike, 
etc., to be scared during the show.”
ON YOUR LIST 
TO REMEMBER
BOWLING
UNIVERSITY
RECREATION
Craig Near Forbes
Handbooks Late—Why?
Many old students may have 
wondered why they received no 
Evening Student Handbook at reg­
istration while the new students 
will wonder what the Handbook is.
The Evening Student Council 
Handbook published by the Coun­
cil contains the history of its found­
ing, activities, constitution, rules 
and regulations governing eligibil­
ity to hold office, campus buildings 
and also the former official Gray 
Book which is the Institute’s regula­
tions governing fees, attendance 
regulations, etc.
The lateness in receiving the 
Handbooks is caused not only by 
the school’s beginning its semester 
one month sooner but of financial 
reasons, due to the anticipated drop 
in enrollment which meant more 
time spent to find lower bidders.
However the Handbooks are at 
press and will be available in two or 
three weeks. Notice of arrival will 
be published and they may then be 
obtained at the Office of the Reg­
istrar by presentation of your regis­
tration card.
FOR
Quality Cleaning
MODEL 
SERVICE
3919 Forbes Street 
SChenley 4313
Call and Delivery
