Volume 84 — Special Issue Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 5 Aprii 1990
CMU names president
LICSB engineering dean elected to top post
By HOWDY PIERCE
Tartan Editor-in-Chief 
& MICHAEL J. EWEDOSH
Tartan News Editor
Dr. Robert Mehrabian, the current 
dean of the College of Engineering at the 
University of California at Santa Bar­
bara (UCSB), will succeed Richard Cyert 
as president of Carnegie Mellon on July
1, University Relations announced this 
morning.
A specialist in materials science, 
Mehrabian, 49, brings with him a repu­
tation as an energetic builder and a 
dynamic leader, according to presiden­
tial search committee members. He is 
credited with catapulting the engineer­
ing school at UCSB to national promi­
nence.
“[Mehrabian’s] record as dean of engi­
neering at UCSB shows he’s the kind of 
innovative person who can continue 
Carnegie Mellon’s momentum,” said 
Cyert.
Members of the search committee 
agree. “He’s got an excellent track rec­
ord,” said Student Search Committee 
Chair Kishore Rao, a junior. “That’s 
important because he’s been a builder, a 
creator, at both the National Bureau for 
Standards and UCSB. He significantly 
improved the quality of those institu­
tions.”
Mehrabian speaks slowly and deliber­
“It’s been said that the best things you learn 
in your years at a university are the things 
that are left when you forget everything 
else. ”
— Dr. Robert Mehrabian
ately, with a slight Armenian accent, but 
is quick to smile. He picks up names 
easily and, unlike Cyert, seems at ease 
in one-on-one, personal discussions.
Rao describes Mehrabian as a slow 
decision-maker who is fast to act once a 
decision has been made. “He’s the kind of 
guy who’s going to want to hear all the 
sides of an issue before he acts,” he said. 
“But once he makes up his mind, I think 
he’ll be very energetic in his implemen­
tation.”
John Fetkovitch, chair of the Faculty 
Presidential Search Committee, cites 
Mehrabian’s work at UCSB as an ex­
ample of what he is capable of doing. “He 
was told by many that he was coming [to 
UCSB] in a lost cause, that there was no 
hope,” he said. “Not only did he build a 
reputable research school, but he did it 
fasterthan anyone could have predicted.”
Fetkovich said that he was impressed 
that Mehrabian did more extensive 
preparation before his first meeting with
the committees than any other candi­
date. “He doesn’t let any grass grow 
under his feet,” he said.
Although Merhabian was offered the 
presidency without visiting the campus, 
he calls Carnegie Mellon “an outstand­
ing research institution with the finest 
national and international reputation.” 
While he admitted that CMUs hu­
manities and arts colleges are somewhat 
left out of the University’s technical repu­
tation, Mehrabian said they’re strengths 
that make Carnegie Mellon different from 
other technical schools. He singles out 
the Psychology and Drama departments 
as “real jewels.”
Mehrabian shares Cyert’s enthusiasm 
for research, an enthusiasm which has 
made CMU one of the finest research 
institutions in the world. “Unfortu­
nately,” he said, “the University does not 
enjoy the same reputation in the under­
graduate side as it does in research.” 
continued on page 3
Thomas Nichols/Tartan Photo Editor 
Dr. Robert Mehrabian will become Carnegie Mellon University’s seventh president on 
July 1. He was elected by the Board of Trustees yesterday at 4 pm.
Search committees 
close 15-month effort
i nomas mcnois/ lanan rnoio taitor 
Dr. Mehrabian poses with his wife, Victoria, at the Westin William Penn hotel Wednesday prior to his 
election.
Mehrabian faces a 
different task than Cyert
By PRANK DIVITO
Tartan Business Manager
When Robert Mehrabian moves 
into the president’s office in July, 
the issues that will confront him 
will range from dwindling Defense 
Department research dollars to a 
need for better integration among 
the University’s graduate and 
undergraduate populations. He 
will find plans for a University 
Center and for a software engi­
neering program in Japan.
What outgoing President Rich­
ard M. Cyert has left on his desk 
is very different than what he 
found there. Cyert took over an
office in July of 1972 that had 
been vacated some five months 
earlier by H. Guyford Stever.
Then-Vice President for Aca­
demic Affairs Edward Schatz 
served as the University’s Acting 
President after Stever left before 
Cyert’s appointment. Schatz, who 
is now a senior vice president, 
says that the problems on the 
president’s desk had a very dif­
ferent flavor when he held that 
office.
Schatz says that the most seri­
ous problem that he faced as act­
ing president and that Cyert 
would face when he tookthe office 
was an unbalanced budget.
“Cyert’s first order of business,” 
he said, “was an unbalanced 
budget that had been running a 
deficit for a year or two.”
Schatz said he worked with 
Cyert during that presidential 
transition to tackle many of the 
budgetary problems faced by the 
University. Within the first year 
of the Cyert administration, the 
University had balanced it’s 
budget, and has not had any fi­
nancial problems during the Cyert 
administration.
But budgetary problems weren’t 
the only ones that the next presi­
dent would face, Schatz said. In 
continued on page 2
By MICHAEL J. EWEDOSH
Tartan News Editor
With tears in his eyes, Carne­
gie Mellon President Richard 
Cyert told a crowded Skibo Ball­
room last January that it was 
time for him to move on.
“It’s not an easy decision for me 
to leave a job....” the 67 year-old 
former GSIA dean told the audi­
ence before his next words were 
choked off.
After he regained his compo­
sure, he continued. “It’s not an 
easy decision for me to leave a job 
which I love,” he repeated. “My 
heart tells me to stay on and on, 
but my brain tells me that the 
time to leave has come.”
Cyert didn’t say another word 
to the crowd of faculty and stu­
dents assembled there, all of 
whom united in a standing ova­
tion of the president as he left the 
stage with only a wave.
The search for Carnegie 
Mellon’s next president started 
with Cyert’s announcement of his 
plans to retire on June 30 of this 
year.
Three committees — the Fac­
ulty Search Committee, the Trus­
tee Search Committee, and the 
Presidential Search Steering 
Committee — were formed im­
mediately to begin the 15-month- 
long nation-wide search. A stu­
dent committee was formed as a 
subcommittee of the faculty com­
mittee.
Most of the names considered 
by the committees were gener­
ated by the Faculty Search Com­
mittee, according to junior IM 
major Kishore Rao, who chaired 
the student committee. Members 
of the faculty committee re­
searched the candidates by con­
tacting colleagues at other uni­
versities.
After the list of names was pared 
down to a reasonable number —• 
just below 25 — members of the 
faculty and trustee committees 
visited the candidates to gauge 
their interest, said Rao.
The next phase of the process 
involved day-long interviews with 
members of the faculty and trus­
tee search committees, including 
some of the students involved on 
the faculty side. Rao said that the 
students involved agreed with the 
faculty on most major issues.
The third , phase of the selec­
tions process involved a meeting 
with the steering committee, 
which was to make a decision and 
forward a recommendation to the 
full Board of Trustees. President­
elect Robert Mehrabian, dean of 
engineering at the University of 
California at Santa Barbara, met 
with the steering committee over 
mid-semester break at 
Pittsburgh’s exclusive Duquesne 
Club.
But the progression of the 
search wasn’t quite so neat. On at 
least one other occasion, some 
members of the administration 
as well as some officials involved 
in the search thought it was 
coming toward its conclusion.
Last September, The Tartan 
reported the search committees 
had produced a “short list” of 
candidates after two rounds of 
interviews conducted over the 
summer.
Four internal candidates were 
interviewed in the second round 
of summer interviews: Provost 
Angel Jordan, H&SS Dean 
Stephen Feinberg, MCS Dean
Robert Sekerka, and Engineer­
ing and Public Policy Head 
Granger Morgan. Search officials, 
however, refused to indicate 
which, if any, of the internal 
candidates remained on the short 
list.
Physics Professor John Fetkov­
ich, chair of the faculty commit­
tee, explained in October that in 
the search process, candidates 
were constantly changing posi­
tion with respect to each other as 
new information was gathered 
about each one.
But by the end of October, it 
became clear that one candidate 
was perceived as a clear favorite 
over the others. Discussions with 
the candidate, who was later iden­
tified as Stanford Engineering 
Dean James Gibbons, had made 
sufficient progress to prompt Vice 
PresidentforEnrollmentWilliam 
Elliott, who was involved with 
the faculty committee, to say, “we 
have made an offer that I think is 
appropriate.”
Trustee William Goldsmith said 
that the candidate met with the 
steering committee late last year 
to determine “what his receptiv­
ity would be to accepting an offer 
... if one were made.”
But Gibbons’ interest in the 
University waned at this point. 
“He did not express the same level 
of interest as he did in the begin­
ning of the search,” said faculty 
committee member Steven Fen- 
ves.
In an interview with The Tar­
tan in January, Gibbons explained 
that his decision was based on 
factors in his personal life, not his 
impression of Carnegie Mellon. “I 
don’t have any intense desire to 
continued on page 3

---------------------------------------------------

2con ctiute d ptienagn 3nDDre d . RbigD Mhhw
Dr. Robert Mehrabian
Experience
1983-present Dean, School of Engineering, University of California, Santa Barbara
• During his tenure, the UCSB engineering college:
-initiated doctoral program in materials science 
-recruited more than 65 new faculty
-established seven research centers in robotics, compound semiconductors, other areas 
-increased its budget seven-fold in six years 
-completed construction of a new engineering building
1979-83 Director of Center for Materials Science, National Bureau of Standards
• initiated major industry/government programs with:
-American Society for Metals 
-American Ceramics Society 
-Society for Plastic Engineers
• initiated data programs with:
-National Association of Corrosion Engineering 
-Welding Research Council
• started program to develop advanced sensors for steel industry
1975-79 Professor of metallurgy/mech. engineering, Univ. of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign
1968-75 Research associate, assistant professor, associate professor, MIT
• co-supervisor of MIT’s Solidification Laboratories
Education
1960 Phillips Exeter Academy
1964 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, B.S.
1968 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Ph.D.
Personal
Born in Tehran, Iran in 1941 
American citizen 
Wife: Victoria Ann George 
-teaches bilingual education
-accomplished horsewoman, vice president of the California Cattlewomen’s Association 
No children
Decision-making team to stay the same...
Top administrators look 
forward to new arrival
By FARRON W. LEVY
Tartan Assistant News Editor
Although President Richard 
Cyert is moving out, there are no 
plans for any of the University’s 
other top brass to follow him when 
his replacement Robert Mehra­
bian takes over.
For many, the make-up and 
operation of a university’s admini­
stration is unclear; what func­
tion does each office serve, and 
how are decisions made?
Among Carnegie Mellon’s top 
decision makers is Senior Vice 
President Ed Schatz, who was 
acting president before Dr. Cyert’s 
appointment and currently over­
sees the equal opportunity and 
affirmative action program.
The other senior vice president 
is A1 Brannick, who is responsible 
for advising and guiding the 
University in the formation of 
legal policies.
Heading all of Carnegie Mellon’s 
academic units is Provost Angel 
Jordan. Jordan looks forward to 
working with Mehrabin, “He and
I are friends,” he says. Both men 
are members of the prestigious
“He and I are friends. I will serve 
with him until I retire to the faculty. ”
— Angel Jordan 
Carnegie Mellon provost
National Academy of Engineer­
ing. “I will serve with him until I 
retire to the faculty,” says Jor­
dan, who is a tenured member of 
CMU’s ECE department.
Among the vice presidents, 
Patrick Keating will be adding 
the office of Business Affairs to 
his current office of University 
Planning when Vice President of 
Business Affairs Fred Rogers 
leaves June 30. Rogers accepted 
a position at Cornell University 
earlier this year.
Bill Elliott is the current vice 
president of enrollment. Elliott 
oversees such areas as admis­
sions, student affairs, athletics, 
and other student programming.
With the installation of a new 
president, there exists .the possi­
bility of the installation of a new
administration in accordance with 
the president’s wishes. “I serve at 
his pleasure,” says Elliott, ex­
pressing his interest in remain­
ing in his current position.
The vice president for academic 
services is Bill Arms. His respon­
sibilities include managing all 
computer planning, support serv­
ices, and University facilities.
Responsibility for the capital 
campaign and overall university 
fundraising efforts, as well alumni 
programming and telemarketing 
belongs to Vice President Devel­
opment Dave Maloney.
Vice President for University 
Relations Don Hale is responsible 
for university public information 
and programs including public 
relations publications, printing, 
and special events.
Mehrabian faces a different task than Cyert did 18 years ago
continued from page 1
an interview with The Tartan in 
February of 1972, Schatz dis­
cussed problems of declining 
graduate enrollment,and drop­
ping interest in engineering 
£mong entering freshman. These 
tyere coupled with two new col­
leges in the University — H&SS 
and SUPA, as well as space prob­
lems that were being experienced that have led to the improvement in the future of not only Carnegie administration.
by departments and colleges 
within the University.
Schatz believes that the major 
achievement of the Cyert admini­
stration is that Cyert brought ef­
fective management to CMU.
He cites Cyert’s concentration 
on the quality of research, of the 
faculty, and of teaching as factors
of the University and its reputa­
tion. “A combination of excellent 
management and vision has made 
CMU one of the best universities 
in the United States,” he said.
Schatz cites the growing costs 
of higher education and the ina­
bility of students to meet those 
costs as an important challenge
Mellon, but also of universities 
around the nation.
Dwindling federal research 
dollars will also be a concern for 
the next president, said Schatz. 
But he is quick to point out that 
these problems are not nearly as 
bad as the financial woes faced by 
Cyert in the early years of his
“The new president will start 
from a strongbase,” he said, “much 
stronger than in 1972, stronger 
financially, stronger academi­
cally, stronger in research ... 
stronger everywhere.
Schatz said that he is unsure as 
to what direction the new presi­
dent will lead the University. “His
job will probably be to maintain 
what is here and then add his own 
vision and hopes for the Univer­
sity,” he said.
He thinks that the student body 
will remain at its current size. 
Schatz sees the physical bounda­
ries of the campus as its limiting 
factor for both research and aca­
demic growth.
WThe Thistle Yearbook ^
The 1990 Thistle will be on sale next week in the Grey Matter. First 50 people to order a book on 
Wednesday will receive $10 dollars off—courtesy of the Alumni Office.
HOME OPENER...
PITTSBURGHPirates
vs
CHICAGOCubs
mellan
Let’s play ball at Three Rivers Stadium on Friday, April 13,1990. Game time 7:35pm. Tickets 
are $4 and are available beginning Wednesday, April 4,1990 at the Skibo Information Desk 
between 9:00am and 5:00pm. If you need transportation, you must sign-up for a transpor­
tation ticket before Thursday, April 12. Busses will depart at 6:00. Limit 10 tickets per CMU 
ID, one ID per person. This event is sponsored in part by the Activities Fee.

---------------------------------------------------

con ctiute d ptienagn 3nDDre d . RbigD Mhhwl
Skibo, Donner, Scaife, Woodlawn, More- 
wood, Mudge, Doherty Apts., fraternity 
quadrangle, Hamerschlag House, Tech 
Reid, and Hunt Library added to campus 
First BA degrees given 
Graphics Arts Dept, and Computation 
Center started
Alpha Tau Omega wins buggy nine of ten 
years
Carnegie Tech and Mellon Institute 
merge
H&SS, SUPA, MCS, CIT formed 
Margaret Morrison College and College 
of Engineering and Science disbanded 
Computer Science and Statistics depart­
ments founded 
Wëân and Warner Halls built
Professor Herbert Simon receives Nobel 
Prize in economics
EPP, Modern Languages departments 
formed
Robotics Institute, SEI founded 
Andrew computer system developed 
East Campus construction and Univer­
sity Center planned
graphic by Stewart J. Levine
The
presidents 
of Carnegie 
Tech and
Carnegie
Mellon
1951-1965
John C. Warner
1922-1935
Thomas S. Baker
1936-1950
Robert E. Doherty
1965-1972
H. Guyford Stever
• Gym and Senior Fence built
• Coal Research Lab opens
• 117 students jailed for "pep" bonfire 
incident
• Prow placed behind Hamerschlag Hall
• Tech becomes national football power
1972-1990
Richard M. Cyert
1990-
Robert Mehrabian
Carnegie Tech campus started 
University divided into colleges of Rne & 
Applied Arts, Science & Technology, Ap­
prentices and Journeymen, Margaret 
Morrison Carnegie College, Division of 
General Studies, and School of Life 
Insurance Salesmanship 
Spring Carnival begins 
Tartan, Thistle, Kiltie Band founded 
Nation’s first college degree in drama 
awarded
Carnegie Plan of education developed 
Fraternities allowed to move on campus 
Sororities become nationally affiliated 
GSIA founded
Football team plays in Sugar Bowl 
Andy Warhol, Kurt Vonnegut attend
CMU selects Mehrabian as new president
continued from page 1
One of the challenges he admits 
he will face here is improving the 
quality of life from a “student per­
spective.”
* Robert A. Charpie, chair of the 
trustee committee, said that he 
thought Mehrabian would 
strengthen Carnegie Mellon’s 
undergraduate program. “He is 
deliberately concerned with 
i making it a centerpiece at Carne­
gie Mellon,” he said.
In addition to the current 
administration’s celebrated Uni­
versity Center plan, Mehrabian 
said he would like to place a
greater emphasis on what he calls 
“broadening,” an idea that encom­
passes more humanities and fine 
arts training for technical majors 
and, conversely, more technical 
education for majors in the arts 
and humanities.
“It’s been said that the best 
things you learn in your years at 
a university are the things that 
are left when you forget every­
thing else,” Mehrabian said. 
“Broadening is very important.”
“I think the concept of interdis­
ciplinary education and research 
will be a key theme of his admini­
stration,” said Rao. “He’s very
sincere and dedicated to the qual­
ity of student life and undergradu­
ate education.”
In addition to “broadening,” 
Mehrabian mentions increased 
numbers of co-op programs, the 
creation of an “undergraduate 
dean” position, and improvements 
in fraternity housing as ideas for 
improvement in student life here.
But undergraduate concerns 
are not the only problems facing 
Mehrabian’s administration. “The 
University needs to raise signifi­
cant amounts of resources to do 
the things we want to do,” he said. 
“We’re not by any means well off.
We can’t borrow any more money, 
so we need to raise it through 
fundraising.”
At the same time, Mehrabian 
said he is concerned with the 
University’s reliance on Depart­
ment of Defense funding, a prob­
lem he admits is not unique to 
CMU. “That [funding] is going to 
be shrinking, at best,” he said, “so 
we need to look elsewhere.” 
“Mehrabian is committed to 
looking ahead, at the opportuni­
ties of tomorrow,” Charpie said. 
He expects that Mehrabian will 
develop technologies that will 
become important — like envi-
ronmental engineering — and 
cultivate those programs at CMU.
Mehrabian will begin spending 
time on campus immediately, 
according to Charpie. Though no 
major decisions or appointments 
will be made in the upcoming 
months, he will be involved in all 
aspects of the University admini­
stration.
Cyert, after stepping down on 
June 30, will serve as president of 
a new business institute spon­
sored by a German corporation 
that will be housed in the soon-to- 
be-constructed GSIA adddition. 
Cyert will also teach and con-
tinue his research work.
Mehrabian is an avid tennis 
player and said he looks forward 
to playing on campus against 
faculty members and students. “I 
saw the tennis courts in some 
pictures of campus,” he said with; 
a smile. “I hope they’re well main­
tained.”
An American citizen, Mehra-i 
bian was born in Tehran, Iran. He 
has been married since 1977 but 
has no children. His wife, Victo­
ria, is a teacher in bilingual edu-; 
cation in English and Spanish 
and an accomplished horse-;
Search committees bring 
15-month effort to an end
continued from page 1
be president of any institution,” he ex- 
I plained. “I’m not a dean now because I’m 
trying to be on track to become a presi­
dent.”
Despite his indecision, sources at MIT 
say that Gibbons remained a candidate 
in MIT’s presidential search until early 
February.
' Two original short list candidates from 
MIT also dropped out of the search, cit­
ing the search at MIT as their reason.
Because three of the candidates from 
the original short list dropped out of the 
search, the committees moved to add to, 
I the list.
Early this year, committee officials said 
that a new short list was being devel­
oped. The list contained no internal can­
didates, but at least President Richard 
Cyert said that he would like to see some 
! additional consideration given to inter­
nal candidates.lt was this list which 
produced Mehrabian.
Several key issues remained promi-
nent in the minds of those involved in the 
search as it progressed.
Many candidates were impressed by 
the Presidential Search White Paper 
written by the student committee and 
sent, along with a similar document 
constructed by faculty members, to each 
candidate. The White Paper was a docu­
ment designed to present Carnegie Mel­
lon — the students, the problems, and 
what the students expected of a new 
president.
“The best thing we did was the White 
Paper,” said Rao. “It clearly stated all of 
the issues. We got the idea from the 
faculty to address the issues and present 
viable options. This was beneficial be­
cause it communicated these not only to 
the candidates, but also to the admini­
stration, faculty, and trustees.”
Bryan Wong, a senior IM major and 
another member of the student commit­
tee, agreed. “The White Paper alone sent 
a statement,” he said. “It gave candi­
dates an idea of what students see as
problems. Other schools don’t have stu­
dents involved like this.” 
“Undergraduate education was one of 
the top issues,” said Rao. “Basically, the 
issue of getting a professional and well- 
rounded Uberai education—for both en­
gineering students and fine arts and 
humanities students — was discussed. 
Engineers get very defensive and think 
that people are always trying to tell 
them what to do. But we’re not just 
talking about giving engineering stu­
dents the opportunity to take humani­
ties classes. We’re talking about move­
ment in both directions —¦ or the option 
of a technical component to fine arts and 
humanities education.”
He said that a lot of attention was also 
given to concerns about the student 
quality oflife at the University. “Support 
services, recreational facilities, and ath­
letic programs were discussed,” Rao said. 
“Many times the discussion led to talks 
of structural or organizational realign­
ments.”
THE IRTAN
Editor-in-Chief.......................Howdy Pierce
Managing Editor.............Michael T. Rose
Business Manager................Frank DiVito
News Editor................Michael J. Ewedosh
Asst. News Editors................Farron W. Levy
Don Pickett
Forum Editor..........................Susan Abrams
Asst. Forum Editor...........Nathan Fullerton
Sports Editor...................Katie Culbertson
Asst. Sports Editors........Jason McDonald
Features Editor.........................Kevin Barney
Asst. Features Editors.......Eric McAnallen
Dexter T. Kobayashi
Diversions Editor.................Stephen Glicker
Asst. Diversions Editors ...Dawn Brosonski 
Terri Kasch
Calendar Editor......................William Burky
Magazine Editor..............Jennifer Kerstein
Asst. Magazine Editor..............Alison Green
Dossier Literary Editor......Christopher Kush
Dossier Design Editor............Soo-Tsu Leng
Art Editor........................William C. Sabram
Asst. Art Editor......................Kristina Boinis
Photo Editor.......................Thomas Nichols
Asst. Photo Editor...........Ignatius Sasmita
Darkroom Manager...........Tad Dockstader
Production Manager...............Pauletta Pan
Copy Manager..................Natalie Peterson
Contributing Editors:
Karl S. Barnhart Grant Carmichael 
James B. Endres Carlos H. Franco
Dustin Frazier Stewart J. Levine
Jonathan Levy Joey Lynn Monaco
Josh D. Ruben Russ Sellgman 
Karyn Silva
Carnegie Mellon University’s student newspaper since 1906
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carnegie Mellon Univer­
sity. It is a weekly newspaper published by students during the (all 
and spring semesters, at no cost to members of the University 
community. It is printed by Western Pennsylvania Printing.lnc. 
Subscriptionsare available forthesemesteroracademicyear. The 
Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the 
official opinion of The Tartan editorial board. Columns are the 
opinions of individual authors. Letters to the Editor are opinions 
of authors who are usually, but not necessarily members of the 
University community. A letter Intended for publication must be 
signed and include the writer's address and phone number for 
verification. Names will be withheld upon request. The Tartan re­
serves the right to condense or reject any letter or column. Copy-
right © 1990 by The Tartan. The Tartan editorial board reserves 
the right to withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit forpub- 
Hcatlon.
Office: Skibo 50 (412)268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan / Box 17 /
Carnegie Mellon University /
Pittsburgh.PA 15213-3890 
Funded by the Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.
r

---------------------------------------------------

Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other otter. Prices 
may vary. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas 
limited to ensure safe driving. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. 
Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries.
Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Prices 
may vary. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas 
limited to ensure safe driving. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. 
Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries.
Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Prices 
may vary. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas 
limited to ensure safe driving. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. 
Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries.
SURVIVAL KIT FOR THIS WEEK.
Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving. ©1989 Domino's Pizza. Inc.
IT’S TIME FOR DOMINO’S PIZZA!
Call Us! Fast, Free Delivery™ Fast, Free Delivery
315 N. Craig St. 623 Greenfield Ave.
Phone: 681-1700 Phone: 521-2970
Receive 
One OriginalMEDIUM 
PIZZA
with one item for$5.99
Additional items extra 
Expires 4-28-90
with one item for$10.95
Additional items extra 
Expires 4-28-90
Receive Two 
Pan or OriginalMEDIUM 
PIZZAS
Receive 
One OriginalLARGE 
PIZZA
with one item for$7.99
Additional items extra 
Expires 4-28-90
