I
FIRST UNION DANCE 
COLLEGIATE IMPS 
RIDAY - 11 PIECES - $2.00
M. M. ALUMNAE DANCE 
COLLEGIATE IMPS 
SATURDAY - UNION - $1.25
L. XXIII, NO. 1.CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 192S.
negie Gridmen 
Open Season Saturday 
Facing Beede-Coached 
Westminster Eleven
Training Camp Ends With 
Lineup Undecided; Several 
Contenders for Each Berth.
SQUAD NOW IN THE BEST 
OF PHYSICAL CONDI­
TION
Hundreds Plan to Take Spe­
cial Train to See Tartan’s 
First Appearance.
POSITIONS OPEN ON TARTAN 
STAFF FOR NEW STUDENTS
The Tartan has issued a call for 
undergraduate student assistants. 
Many positions are open in both 
the editorial and business depart­
ments for any freshmen and new 
students who are interested in col­
lege journalism. Student Council 
activities keys arc awarded for 
meritorious work and excellent op­
portunities exist for first year stu­
dents who work consistently to ob­
tain remunerative staff positions in 
their senior year. Clerical and 
stenographic work, reporting, ad­
vertising, soliciting and circulation 
work offer varied interests in the largest non-athletic activity on the Carnegie campus.
Candidates for Tartan staff posi- . tioils should report in the Publica- j
Night School Page Together
Major Additions to Tartan
Paper to Return to Smaller 
Six Column Style After 
First Few Issues
'* Many days ago the first call for L‘ candidates for Carnegie’s 1928 foot- 0 ball team was sounded. Since then many things have happened.Coaches have burned midnight oil;* trainers have rubbed bruised limbs and torsos, managers have been seen scurrying about the campus, back fields have demonstrated _ al­most unexpected speed, and line­men have shown surprising stam­ina and ruggedness. As a result of all this there stands out a var­sity squad of 40 men, each one .trained to the minute and each one /worthy of admiration. The 1928 Tartans stand nearly ready to make 
their debut.
Prospects for a successful season are indeed very bright. For the #first time in many seasons Coaches : W if i Plpfftna Sppflfill
Steffen and Waddell have an abun- YV llU IltLUIIdl tfCtllUll 
dance of reserve material, thanks to the undefeated Freshman team of 1927. Last year’s losses, suf­fered on account of the graduation j of Anderson, Cooper, Cowan and English, linemen, and Wcrterber- ger, a back, left many big gaps, but if the advance showing of last year's plebes is any criterion these holes will be more than filled.If one_ should happen to journey \ down into Tech Bowl during an \ afternoon practice session one’s heart would indeed be gladdened.Just a glimpse of Wally’s smiling countenance and these new sophs cavorting about the field is enough.Speedy "Dutch" Eyth running the ends, Karcis plunging through the line, big holes in the opposing line beitAiotls jac by Schnupp, Ilighber- ( gPr' ijjftreshar, Flanagan and ItP” -"'c? receiving long passes, just one afteryioon. The ,,......... .oo, are out in full force.CaptaiVi Harpster, Carnegie’s triple j threat man, is as brillian as ever.; Letzelter, Moorhead, Shaughnessy,! Yerina, Sweet, Lovewell and the j others are all at the top of their : form. Only one man is missing i from the ranks, Saul Mrelziner, who has held down the center po- i sition for the last two years. Miel- 1 ziner, the largest man on the squad, was sent to the hospital with ap­pendicitis and, in all probability, will be lost to the team for the entire season. Saul’s sickness ne­cessitated a distinct change in
Students Have Special I Carnegie Says Farewell toTrain To Westminster!
Accommodations arc now com­plete for Carnegie students wishing to attend the Westminster game at Youngstown. Buddy Overend, graduate manager, has secured a special excursion on the Pennsyl­vania Railroad, thus enabling stu­dents to attend the game. Round- trip tickets may be secured at the graduate manager’s office in the gym for $1.50. Tickets for the game mav be secured for $.50 provided the student activities’ tick-
Harold Harlow Jacobson Who 
Goes Forth to Broadway to Seek Fame
All Carnegie will be grieved to hear that the famous Harold Har­low Jacobson, formerly Junior Edi­tor of the Tartan, and Junior dra- mat, has put behind him Carnegie Tech and will henceforth delight his fellow students at Columbia. Mr. Jacobson, who has been per- . . .haps the most conspicuous charac-et is presented in addition to these i[er on the campus, will no moretickets. Tickets may also be se-jd^, the admiring eyes of the cured at_ the graduate manager’s females, and no more will theoffice. The train will leave the Pittsburgh Union Station at .11:00 a. m. Eastern Standard time or 10:00 a. m. Pittsburgh Daylight Saving time, and leave Youngs­town at 6:00 p. m. The effort ex­pended in making these arrange­ments justifies their use by a large group.'
Carnegie Tech and Pitt athletic authorities have reached an agree­ment for the joint use of the new Stadium. The agreement states that the Stadium will be used by both Pitt and Carnegie on alter­nate Saturdays for a period of 15 jrears beginning in the football season of 1929.
Collegiate Imps Will
11UM3 OIIUU1U itlJUIl 1H tllli A- j _ # _ • * TI 1tions Office, L.XI, 12 Industries hlirnfQn Miicip tnf F^PSll- Building, at noon on any school AU11|K>i! 1T1JML IVI II CM! 
day. Early applicants whose work is satisfactory will be rewarded with appointments at mid-semester.
The plans announced last spring for a larger and finer Tartan have reached a culmination and Carnegie students will now receive all the advantages of a double circulation, new weekly rotogravure section of campus photos^ from the largest schools in the United States, among them Carnegie, and a closer bond with our other student body, the night school.Next week's issue of the Tartan will include a special campus pic- toral section ¡11 rotogravure, con­taining views of interesting and im­portan activities, among the col­leges of this country. Tartan is now one of the forty-five largest college weeklies in the world, and as such is privileged to receive this newly-established newspaper fear lure, in which will appear from time to time pictures of Carnegie's activities as well as those of other schools. In connection with this feature, Carnegie students are /in­vited to submit to the Tartan any photographs' of campus functions or scenes which they believe will 
ci, (v. if, 1 . ¦ be of interest to students in other
Jr &jBS. ?,! colleges and universities. Any such views which may be accepted lor the. pictorial section will be paid
man Welcome Dance in 
Union Saturday Night
M. M. Alumne Ass’n. Spon­
sors Affair Under Chair­
manship of Jean Roy
mid Dreshar were, in practice, al­ternating between center and guard, the latter playing roving centcr 011 the defense. _ Now Dreshar will probably remain at centcr, leaving the guard position an open berth.Lawrence Perry, noted sports Writer, speaks highly of the 1928 Tartans and bids fair warning to Pitt, New York U., West Vir­ginia, Georgetown, Notre Dame, and the others. Perhaps Mr. Perry is not acquainted with the rivalry which exists toward one of the “others” for lie makes 110 men­tion of the Red and Black from Washington, Pa., but every staunch supporter of the Plaid is undoubt­edly thinking of W. & J. For many years a combination of. cir­cumstances has brought. the down­fall of Carnegie in the annual game with the Presidents. Many a time the Tartans have journeyed to \Vashington or other nearby cities \yith a well-nigh unbeatable team, only to tie or to lose and only once to win. Maybe this year will bring about not only the defeat of the W. & J. tear.i, but also of the W. & J. jinx, for a jinx it is considered. As for Pitt and Notre Dame—well, let’s wait and see. Pitt will have to do some tall hustling this year to cope with their Schenley Park neighbors and that goes for Notre Dame also. The Irish liave not. forgotten the 19-0 score of that wintry day in 1926 and Carnegie realizes that they have not forgotten. Both teams are going to have their hands full on November 17.The season opens at Youngstown 0-- September 29, with Westmin­ster furnishing the opposition for the day. No great trouble is ex­pected with that team as the game is more of a test of J;..negie’s true strength, but upsets have happened before and, the Plaid is not im­mune. When this game is over we will gain a more definite knowledge of the Tartan’s true ability.
Material Shapes Up FastSeptember 3, the first day of football camp saw a group of forty huskies start preparing for tough­est schedule in Carnegie’s history. Early practice sessions consisted of drills to develop speed and talks by Steffen in which he warned the men of overconfidence.When these_ preliminaries were oyer, the plaid supporters were given their first opportunity to look at this year’s varsity in which there were many changes at first. Captain Harpster who is being groomed for a position 011 the mythical All-American team this vcar, was the only man sure of his job at quarterback. At pres- (Continued on Page 6)
for at a rate of two dollars each, Unused photos will be returned. This is an excellent opportunity for amateur photographers to real­ize on their hobby, and in addition. Tartan will award positions as staff photographers to a few whose work, by its consistency and excel­lence, merits such recognition.’ Staff photographers will be eligible for. activities’ keys, on the basis as other members of the Tartan organiza­tion.Representatives of the day and nig'ht school groups have long real­ised that a closer bond of asso­ciation should be effected between them, and now Tartan has done much to create such a closer rela­tionship. A night school staff under Edward E. McDonald will edit page three of the Tartan in the interests of the Carnegie night students, and day students likewise, will prob­ably find much of interest in this new section. Night students, here­after, will receive the. Tartan- on. the same basis as the' day group, although it will be delivered to the- former by mail.Another feature which is being planned for the winter is an ex­change of one issue with the staff of the Pitt Weekly. This interest­ing experiment will give Carnegie an opportunity to see the results of Pitt’s journalistic work and the University will see howT the Tar­tan staff handles its work. A group from the Weekly Office will come to our campus and edit the news section of the T artan while repre­sentatives of the Tartan will be given an opportunity to cover the news of the. opposite hill and pro­duce one issue of the Weekly.Readers will probably notice a difference in type and headline forms - from those of last year’s issues. The changes have been made to bring the Tartan up to the latest standards of commercial newspaper practice, and it is be­lieved that the student body will appreciate these changes, as they tend to make the paper more pleas­ing in appearance and easier to read. The newly-adopted forms are those that were recently developed for the New York Times and the New York Sun.Explanation of the present six- page, eight column issue is also desirable. In the readjustments necessary by the previously listed changes, it is necessary for the 
first few issues to revert to the form of the early part of last year,: „but readers are assured that as soon as possible, Tartan, will again appear in the more convenient six column, eight-page form.
On Saturday evening, September 29, a welcome dance for the Car­negie Tech Freshmen will be held in the Union from 9 till 12, under the auspices of the Margaret Mor­rison Alumnae Association. The popular Collegiate Imps will furnish the_ orchestration for the evening. This orchestra needs no introduc­tion to Carnegie students, for rits success at student dances dunng the past years has been outstanding New students, as yet unacquainted with the talents of the Imps, have a treat in store for them. The charge per couple will be $1.25.
Among the guests who will at­tend the welcome dance are Dr. Thomas Stockham Baker, Director Mary Bidwell Breed, Dean Mary Watson Green, Dean Arthur Wil­son Tarboll and Miss Josephine Whitney, President of the Margaret Marrison Alumnae Association.
In previous years this dance has enjoyed great popularity among the 
students and has furnished an excel­lent opportunity for Tecliites to get together after the summer vaca­tion. As this will be one of the first social events 011 the student calendar this year, as usual, a record attendance is expected. Upper classmen, as well as Fresh­men, arc urged to attend and be­come acquainted with the new stu­dents.Miss Jean Roy, who graduated from the household Economics De­partment this year, is chairman of the dance, and is being assisted by a most able and active .committee composed of alumnae. Miss Roy took aii active part in many of the student organizations on the cam­pus during her four years at Car­negie, and was an honor student. In her senior , year she. held the position of Honorary Cadet Major of the R. O. T. C. and was also a maid of honor to the 1928 cam­pus queen. The proceeds of the alumnae dance are to be used for scholarship purposes.
envious eyes of the males be cast on Mr. Jacobson’s hat and cane.
According to the words of the much-quoted Mr. Jacobson, he has left Carnegie at the request of a physician who said, in addition to much technical detail, that Mr. Jacobson was very temperamental and tbo high-strung for the provin­cial atmosphere of a conventional technical school.
So Mr. Jacobson will hie him forth to Columbia and the students will grieve. Yea, there shall be weeks of weeping and wailing. For there is no one else who shall be able to bring the breath of- spring into a dry newspaper story, no­body to clarify the mysteries of life for the plebes, and no more inspirations for Puppet writers.
Mr. Jacobson was down. at the Tartan office to say farewell to the staff and with his customary modesty told his eager listeners about his past, present and future 
accomplishments.According to Mr. Jacobson three of his plays will be presented before Broadway audiences during the coming season. He has written a play for Mae West, another for Ann Harding, and also a play for Joe Henry Wadsworth, who is a Carnegie graduate. In addition to this,, he has written a book, “Adaptablion,” which, according to
New Student Directory 
To Be Published Soon
predictions, will soon take the world by storm and probably be censored in Boston. Mr. Jacobson states that he has also writtenseven scenarios for the talkies which ___________ ___ ______
which will be produced by Para"! plete facultv directory which ha: mount, Jox, Warner Brothers ami | ^ ^ ¡ncludc<J in prcvious
The tri-Publicatioi: Staff, after
completing the Plebe Bible has 
already laid plans for the publica­
tion of a Student Directory. East 
year the directories proved very 
popular and should be even more 
popular this year. The new di­
rectory will also include
Second international Conference 
to be Held at Carnegie Music Hall 
November 19-24 Where Twelve 
Major Topics will be Fully Discussed
Mack Sennett. One would think that all this is a life’s work, but Mr. Jacobson stated that he also has written stories for the maga­zine of sophisticates, "The New Yorker,” and has been commis­sioned to write the lyrics for a Shubert operetta. In addition to this Mr. Jacobson filled in some of his spare time by playing in stock all summer at the Denver, Col., summer resort, Elitches: Gar­
dens.
years.
For the benefit of the new men 
it would be well to describe this 
handy little book. The Student 
Directory is approximately the size 
of the Plebe Bible. It includes a 
complete list of all the fraternities 
and dormitories with their ad­
dresses and telephone numbers. It 
includes a complete list of all day 
students, both men and women,There is 110 doubt that many . . , , . . ..readers would like to know to I Sm"EI local , and home addresses 
what Mr. Tacobson owes his> suc­cess. Mr. Jacobson, upon arising, reads four chapters in French for mental setting-up exercises. For diversion instead of vaudeville or detective stories he plays or listens to the works of Chopin, Beethoven, and Bach.
as well as local telephone nutn
bcrs. In the back of the directory 
is a fraternity directory, givingnames of active members andpledges of each fraternity, bothhonorary and social.
COMBINED TARTAN AND 
SKIBO TO SERVE DAY 
AND NIGHT SCHOOLS
This issue of The Tartan marks 
the beginning of a combination of 
the journalistic interests of Car­
negie’s two student bodies—the day 
and night groups. After several 
months consideration and discus­
sion by representatives of Student 
Council, the Administration, the | 
Night Student Council, The Tartan 
and the Night School Skibo, it was 
decided to discontinue the publish­ing of the latter paper, and to insti­tute a night student’s section in The
One Hundred Engineers and 
Scientists Will Be Present 
and Discuss Varied 
Subjects
THREE-FIFTHS OF PAPERS 
TO BE GIVEN BY 
VISITORS
Fifteen Different Nations Will 
Be Represented At 
Conference
Another unique characteristic noted in Mr. Jacobson, is his dis­like for spinach. His dislike for this nutritious _ vegetable was not
person of Mr." Jacobson's artistic Dance at Union Friday,fervor could sup only on nectarSeptember 28
The Night Student Council has 17« , 17 , f n • appointed Mr. Edward E. McDon-rirSl event 0l Lsrne^ie laid of Pittsburgh as the first editorof the night section. He is one of
1 ech Social season Will be ' the oldest members of the nightgroup, in the point of service, and
Twelve major topics for discus­sion at the Second International Tartan. This night school section Conference on Bituminous Coal to will hereafter be found on page.be held under the auspices of Car- three of The Tartan. negie Tech, November 19-24, 192S,have been tentatively announced. About one hundred engineer^ and scientists representing fifteen na­tions have already accepted invi-
and ambrosia.
Meanwhile Carnegie will wait to hear of the conquests-of Mr. Jacob­son on Bror.dway and is ready to point with pride when the news of his success arrives. There, is no doubt that many readers. would like to know the complete life of Air. Jacobson, and if the reader d-imand is great enough, the Tartan will print his autobiography.
Plebes Benefit By
Early Registration
Annual Freshman Week Program 
Includes Registration, Talks 
and Socials.
NEW UNIFORMS FOR 
CARNEGIE ROTC UNIT
STAUFFER, STUDENT 
COUNCIL HEAD, MAKES 
TRIP TO GERMANY
The success of the first Freshman Week which was held three years ago was so pronounced that it is assured as an annual event, and all incoming students ^re required to be present at all exerpises.The purpose of Freshman Week, as stated by the authorities of the school, is to welcome the iresh- men into the college community, to enable them to complete, be­fore the regular schedule begins, all matters connected with the routine of entrance and registra­tion; to provide a chance to be­come settled and acquainted with the institution; and to give them such information and advice as ’will adjust them promptly to their col­lege life and work.Before Freshman Week was a part of the school policy, freshmen were required to register, buy their supplies, and books, and find their rooms together with upperclassmen. Many freshmen were lost in the confusion and were unable to ac­custom themselves to their sur-
Juniors and Seniors Will Be Fitted 
This Year in Khaki 
and Plaid.
After several years of hopeful 
waiting the Carnegie RQ.TC is to 
be equipped with new uniforms— 
that is to say the juniors and 
seniors are to be outfitted.
Major Taylor has spent consider- 
aL.c time the. past year or so in 
the endeavor of getting muchly- 
needed uniforms for the ROTC and 
at. last the corps is to parade in 
a uniform fitting for a Carnegie 
organization.
The uniform will be the regular 
ariry khaki color. The uniform 
will be made to meet the require­
ments of the regular army style. 
The hat worn by the men, however, 
will not be a regular cap, as pre­
viously worn, but will be cut as 
the aviation cap which is similar 
in appearance to the overseas cap, 
or our own Carnegie “dink.”
The coat will be adorned by plaidroundings and failed to get a good shoulder straps and a plaid bandstart in their studies. Before they —....1 —••*----- *tm._ .1*—:------
knew what college was, they were molested by the sophomores, and many received unfavorable impres­
sions of college.Freshman Week this year began with registration and with a wel­come by President Baker. Orienta­
tion talks were given by those members of the faculty particularly informed of the needs and prob­lems of the new students.Several social events were held in order to make the program of Freshman Week complete. Among
around each sleeve. The Engineer, or Signal Corps insignia, will be worn as well as the ROTC torch. A two-inch oxblood belt will be worn -in place of the web cartridge belt used hitherto. It is planned to have thy officers wear a regular Sam Brown belt.
The trousers will be of the long variety, such as civilians wear with a plaid stripe down the side of each leg.Juniors and seniors will be fitted to uniforms this year, the sophs and plebes continuing to wear the
Collegiate Imps to Feature 
Affair With Late Song 
Hits and Skits
The first Union dance of the year will be held there 011 Friday, September. 28, beginning at 9 p. 111. The feature of the dance will be the College Imps, an eleven-piece orchestra under the . direction of “Squawk” Taylor. This orchestra, which was originally a campus or­ganization, was organized at: Car­negie Tech six years ago and have been playing at the most prominent 
social affairs of. eastern United States ever since. They will fea­ture several of the latest musical hits of the new shows appearing on Broadway, and their specialty artists will be seen and heard in musical and comical roles. The Collegiate Imps were a hit at last year’s Campus Week and the news that- the Collegiate Imps will pre­sent their music will bring a large crowd to the Union, Friday.As this is the first dance of Car­negie’s social season, it will pre­sent upper classmen with a chance to renew old acquaintances and af­ford freshmen their first chance to participate and mingle in a Car­negie social event.As the assessment is only two dollars a couple a large crowd is expected, as the College Imps are one of the best orchestras and are seldom heard at this low price. The entire affair promises to' be one of extreme delight and one that will create a good impression on the newcomers and recreate the good feelings of those who have come back to Carnegie.The dance is sponsored by Pi Delta Epsilon, national journalistic honorary fraternity. The dance is being held to raise funds to fur-
has held responsible positions in various night school enterprises and organizations. Mr. McDonald’s as­sistants have not yet been ap­pointed, but it is expected that the staff will be completed shortly after the registration period next 
month.
New Front on Machinery Hall 
are Features of Improved
Margaret Morrison College 
Driveway Converted 
Into Foot Path
Every fall as the students return 
to school there are always changes 
in the campus scenery visible here
This year it looks like Fritz, the 
gardener, carries, off the honor. 
The plot of ground back of Lang­
ley Lab and extending to Tech 
Street was in bad shape but lo 
and behold this year we find a 
beautiful lawn. The campus looks 
better than it has ever before due 
to the watchful care of Fritz, a 
real campus character. •
Machinery Hall/is going through 
a face-lifting process in which sev­
eral facing sections were placed in 
an opening above the main en­
trance. The original design called 
for this facing but it has just been 
put in.
Mr. Orbin and Colonel Fairley have arranged with the City of Pittsburgh to build a wall along Frew Street and to plant vines on the bank which was exposed when
the events were the corn roast same uniform as worn in past k^^by M. C. A. for the men yearS- The uniforms will be the
John C. Stauffer, a. senior in the' Department of Architecture of the Carnegie Institute of Technology, and President of the Student Coun­cil, was a member of a party, of five young men and -five .young women, either undergraduates or doing graduate _ work at-American colleges and universities, on a two- months’_ tour of German institu­tions this summer as guests of thé Carl Schurz Vereinigund. Stauffer and the other members of the party were selected by the . Com­mittee on Award of the Institute of International Education from students nominated by various American institutions. The Carl Schurz Vereinigund is organized to foster better understanding between 
Germany and the United States.
Stauffer, whose home is in Mari­etta, Pa., is a member of the football and basketball teams at Carnegie, and is- a member of Dragons3, Senior Honorary Society and Kappa Sigma Social Frater­nity.
Carnegie To Be Represented 
In Milwaukee Radio Program
and Play Day for the women under the direction of the Women’s Ath- lètic Association. The dinner given by the Campus “Y’s” and the an­nual reception by the Deans were perhaps the most keenly enjoyed.
A. C. Jewett To Head
Research Committee
property of the school, and the present seniors’ uniforms will be given to next year’s sophs. The junior class each year will be given new uniforms. This process will continue untjl the entire corps has been provided with uniforms.The new uniforms will be made to order by Kaufmann’s of Pitts­burgh, and are promised for de­livery two weeks after measure- 
For the purpose of giving con- are taken. Measurementssidération to equipment and man- wll be taken as soon as possible agement problems in the field of after registration and the new um- pfinting, the American Society of forms should be m evidence oil Mechanical Engineers, through its the campus around the end of Oc-
Radio station WTMJ of the Mil­waukee Journel is planning to^put on a series of “Football Programs” during the" fall. These will be one hour programs, consisting entirely of songs and yells of_ the various colleges and universities whose teams play on any particular Satur day. Mr. Clark, in the Publicity Bureau, received, a request from the Milwaukee Journal to send them a song book and a list of cheers so that' Carnegie might be represented in one of their Satur- dav_ evening programs. The Car­negie Alumni living in Milwaukee 
or the surrounding district will be able to enjoy a real Carnegie pro­gram.
Printing Industries Division, has named Arthur C. Jewett, director of the College of Industries of Carnegie Tech, to be chairman of a Committee on Survey and Re­search for the Printing Industries.Chairman Jewett has announced appointment of the following prom­inent men in the printing field to serve as committee members: Dr. Francis Bird,. Professor, the Uni­versity of Cincinnati, and Research Consultant, United Typothetae^ of America; E. O. Reed, Technical Director, Government Printing Of­fice, Washington, D. C.; M. E. Powers, Printing Engineer, Pet- tengell, Inc., Chicago, 111.; Edward T. Miller, Secretary, United Ty- pothetae of America, Chicago, 111.; Wallace Clark, Consulting Man­agement Engineer, New York, N. Y.; W. E. Sooy, Michigan Carton Company, Battle Creek, Mich.; Don A. Johnson, Superintendent, Em­pire State School of Printing, Ithaca, N. Y., and James T. Peto, "The Press Guardian,” Patterson, N. J.The. Committee plans to hold its first meeting early in the Fall of 1928. In tho meantime, it is an­nounced, committee members will welcome suggestions from any in­terested nerson pertaining to suit­able subjects for research study that may benefit printers.
tober. With the new uniform to pr.rade in, the Carnegie ROTC should make as good an appear­ance as any of the colleges, for it is already known that their drill is better than the average, and probably as good as any of the drills exhibited, by any of the lead­ing college units.The ROTC department is to be congratulated on their work and success in getting the new uni­forms, and it now remains for the 
men in the ROTC ranks to show their appreciation by taking the proper care of their uniforms.
CANDIDATES FOR CHEER­
LEADER REPORT FOR
PRACTICE AT GYM
The cheerleaders’ squad has been practicing every day in the gym at 4:30 p. m. All candidates should come out at once. Plebes espe­cially should come out whether they have had previous experience or not. H. J. Bell is head cheer­leader this year and Bob Wood ’s the manager. The first football game is next Saturday at Youngs­town, leaving but a shor_ time to practice. All plebes interested should come out as soon as pos­sible.
- requestor CSenterprises on the campus. I liey J - . ?will also attempt to secure studentinterest in these projects and if necessary embark upon new peri­odicals to supply the literary needs 
of the campus.
FIRST ASSEM3LY OF 
YEAR ON OCTOBER 9
The first general assembly of the year will be held at the Carnegie Music Hall on October 9. The schedule for assemblies will follow the same plan that was in effect last' year, that is, a general assem­bly will be held on the first Tues­day of every month, except when there are five Tuesdays in a month, and then it will be held on the second Tuesday. Departmental as­semblies and Freshman assemblies will be held every third Tuesday of the month and chapel \vill be held on the second and fourth Tuesdays. Carnegie Day, the most important assembly of the year will be held on November 27, at j N the Carnegie Music Hall. -The schedule of assemblies as approved by the Executive Board on June 13 follows:
tations to speak or to send papers to the Congress, and the number of speakers and delegates is grow­ing daily. About sixty per cent of the papers will be delivered by representatives of countries other than the United States.
Although the Second Internation­al Conference will be similar iti purpose Lo the first Congress held in 1926, preliminary plans .for thisl year's meeting show that its scope will be considerably enlarged and the program will be more import tant and more international in j character. The discussion of Fixed , - . i Nitrogen is one of the topics which1and Beautiful Landscape
of the principal subjects of discus­sion at the first meeting, will again occupy a prominent place in the deliberations. Low temperature dis-, tillation will be treated by repre­sentatives of at. least a half dozen countries. High temperature dis­tillation, power from coal,.coal tarn and oils, complete gasification of coal, origin of '.oal, coal washing, pulverized coal, catalysts, and the 
i O . ft,» n»,.r mi general aspects of the bituminou.^and there. Last year th CQaj jn(justry arc 0i;jlcr topics that
sidewalk was the mam change. % u ^e considered.
Among the outstanding Euro* peans who are expected to aMciut the Congresâ are Donat Agachc, E. Audibert, Jean Bing, Emile Heurteu, Antonie Vonk, Pa,til Weiss, Henri Winckler and Ray; m ond Bcrr, France; Dr. Fran a Fischer, Professor Fritz Hoffmanut Professor IV,P. Kerschbauin, Dr, Carl Krauch, Dr..Friedrich Bergiutf. Rudolph Pawlikowski, Professe* Ernest Terres, Professor Dr. Glin Dr. J. E. Noeggerath, Joseph Plasj maun, Rudolph Battig, Dr. Ka Bunte, and Professor Fritz Frani Germany; Lord Melcliett (-Sir A. fred Mond), Dr. Cecil H. Lander, .Harold Nielsen, Colone. Liiidcrnaniij Dr. R. ^ Lessing and Edgar C. Evans, Egland; Commcndatorc Al­berto Edeardo Bianchi, and Engi neer Guardabassi, Italy; Profess/ Dr. Granigg, Austria; A. Franr, Belgium; Professor P. E. Raascho Denmark; Professor Ii./ Klin Poland; Professors George L. Sta nikoff and L. K. Ramsin, Russ Japan will be represented by Pi fessors Yoskikiyo Osliima ai Chozo Iwasaki. Delegates will al come from Czechoslovakia, Caj da, Norway, Spain, Chili; Rouman
that everybody park along the curb so as to provide more orderly parking space. All this is done for the benefit and safety of stu­dents so that they may be protected-from . automobiles as much Jugo-Slavia and Bulgaria.
as possible while on the campus.In Margaret Morrison College the Recreational Hall has been made over into a* laboratory. The Recreational Hall will be on the fourth floor front, in the space now occupied by a dining room. Several other laboratory changes were made.In Machinery Hall, a new class room was built in the West wing for Mechanical and Electrical stu­dents. The room is at the end of the Materials Laboratory. A great deal of credit is due to-Mr. Orbin and Colonel Fairley for the wonderful improvement they have effected on the campus during the past summer. Colonel Fairley'is to be congratulated in being recom­mended for five years as a colonel in the Engineers of the Reserve
October: .
2. Open.9. Student Council. General As­sembly.16. Chapel.23. Separate College Assemblies. To include Eng. and Ind. Freshmen Assembly.30. Chapel.
November:
6. Student Council. General As­sembly.13. Chapel.20. Separate College Assemblies. Eng. and Ind-. Freshmen As­sembly.27. Carnegie Day.
December:
Future plans call for landscape gardening of the filled-in ground between the Woodlawn girls’ dorms and the Forbes Street dorms. This ground will include a baseball field, tennis courts, lawns for croquet. The main idea is to provide a' place for outdoor recreation for girls as they have been handicapped in the past for want of space.The driveway at the entrance of Margaret Morrison has been closed to vehicles. The circle of grass in. the center has been cemented over also.
CARNEGIE MAINTAINS 
THREE EATING PLACES
FOR STUDENTS
Where do we eat? The Institu­tion provides the Carnegie Grill, the Inn, and the Commons for 
4. Student Council. General As- students who get hungry. The
sem’oly.11. Chapel.18. No Assembly. Christmas Re­cess.25. No Assembly. Christmas Re­cess/
January:
1. No Assembly. Christmas Re­cess.8. Student Council. General As-(Continued on Page Four)
dormitory girls use the Inn, which is open only at meal, hours. The girls pay for their meals by the semester.The Commons provide lunches and dinners for students from 11:30 to 1:30 and in the evening.Carnegie Grill is open from 7:30 in the morning lo 12:00 at night. ,All types of meals mav be obtained j Piilverizcd Coal: Dr. I there. The food is served practical-! ens, Rudolph PawlikoWsli ly at cost. (Continued on Page
The Economics of the Coal j dustry will be discussed by Lc Melcliett. Dr. Friedrich Bergi. Professor Dr. Franz Fischer, G' many; Andre Idling and E. Au bert, France; Engineer. Guardaba1 Italy, will deal with the subject the liquefaction of coal.
Low Temperature Distillati will be treated by George E. Blythe, Dr. C. Ii. Lander, liar Nielson, Dr. E. YV. Smith, E 
land; Dr. A. Herz, Joseph PH mann, Professor F. P. Kers baum, Germany; Henri Lafc Professor Paul Lebeau, Ante Vonk, A. Leante, France; Pro sor Dr. Granigg, Austria; Profej Yoskikiyo Osliima, Japan; Pro. sor Samuel W. Parr, Professor fred H. White and F. C. Gree United States.
High Temperature Distilled John Bing, France; Professo,'r nest Terres, Germany; Edgar Evans, England.Power from Coal: Dr. J. E.iNo gerath, Germany; C. Simon, Ifra?A. T. Stuart, Canada; W. B. G man and Professor A. G. Christ] United States.
Coal Tars and Oils: HerWinckler, France; Dr. L. Ed eanu and Professor Dr. Fr Frank, Germany, and Gustaf J loff, United States.Gassification of Coal: Dr. PBunte and Dr. Alfred Pott, ( many; Paul Weiss, France.Origin of Coal: Professor Gc j L. Stadnikoff, Russia; Dr. C Iwasaki, Japan; Dr. Rein Thiessen and Professor E. C frey, United ' States.Fixed Nitrogen: A represei of L’Air Liquidc Societc, F Rudolf Battig, Germany; Prr Harry A. Curtis, Louis' C. and Charles J. Brand,States.Coal Washing: A. Franc gium; Professor Dr. Glin many; Dr. R. Lessing, J F. K. Wadlcigh, Dr. F. V James B. Morrow and Byj United States.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE -TARTAN1CAREGST RAU1AFHAY PBD M
j HOME COMING TALK !
The most interesting event upon next year’s .alumni calendar is the inauguration of a real alumni home­coming occasion, to be held at the time of the Pitt-Tech football game, Friday and Saturday, Octobcr 26 and 27. Card notices have gone out to all alumni giving you an idea of the events planned and we are hoping that everyone will start making arrangements now to come back for these two days, in the fall. If you have to save a day or two from this summer’s vacation, it will be worth while.Following is a program for the week-end:
Friday, Octobcr 2611 a. m., Alumni Federation Meet­ing in Trophy Room, Gymnasium.1 p. m., Buffet Luncheon in the Field House. (Athletic Quarters.)2:30 p. m., Inspection of Build­ings and Grounds.3:30 p. m., Open House by Ad­ministration and Faculty.6:30 p. in., Biggest Alumni Din­ner ever held under one tent. No Lengthy Speeches. Dancing and Cabaret. Webster Hall main din­ing room.8:30 p. m., Campus Sing.9 p. m., Alumni Dance.Saturday, Octobcr 2710:30 a. m., the BIG PARADE. Prizes to be given for the best costumes.12:00 noon, Class Reunions and Luncheons.1 p. m., Football: Pitt vs. Car­negie Tech Freshmen at Pitt Sta­dium.2:30 p. m., Football: PITT vs. CARNEGIE TECH (VARSITY GAME).8:30 p. m., Open House at all Fraternities.Dances will be held by the Fra­ternities and also at the UNION •in the Central Building.Sunday, October 28
At Home All Fraternities.We are planning two reunions at that time and the class of 1908 will be back for its twentieth reunion; the class of 1913 for its fifteenth reunion; the class of 1918 for its tenth reunion, and the class of 1928 for its first reunion. The sec­retaries of these classes arc work-
rA Course in
Handling Money
The formation of a bank­ing connection early in life is an indispensable part of your education.
The experience in handling money, the friendly advice of ‘ specialists trained lo meet every type of financial problem, will enable you to make the most of your allowance ndnv, and will eventually help you lo success in whatever line of work you may follow.
Mellon National Bank
ing on plans now to have a large representation back from each class, and you can’t start making your 
arrangements too soon.The following general commit­tees have been appointed to take care of Homecoming arrangements:General chairman: li. C. Godden, I '23 (better known as “Red”).
Friday dinner: Miss Adah Bor- gerding, M ’24, chairman; J. W. Dougherty, I ’11; Mrs. Anna Kirk- cr Bowser, M; Mr. Rody Patterson, A ’23, and Miss Josephine Gibson, M ’24.
Dinner Entertainment and Friday evening dance: Miss Charlotte Shu­man, A ’22, chairman; Robert Schmcrtz, A '21; C. F. Steen, A ’17, and Logan T. Johnson, I.Publicity: Clarence “Buddy”Ovcrncd.Class committees for the reunion 
arc:1908: A. W. Rinehart, Jr., En­gineering. care L. C. Moore, Oliver Building, Pittsburgh; Marion M. Steen, Arts, 86 Vandcrgrift Build­ing, Pittsburgh.1913: R. S. Dornberger, Engi­neering, 4720 Centcr avenue, Pitts­burgh; li. J. Saville, Industries, 2565 East street, North Side, Pitts­burgh; Eleanor McCullough (Mrs. H. AL), Arts, 2312 Tilbury street, Pittsburgh, Pa.; Sarah Kidney Metzger, (Mrs. R. M.), Margaret Morrison, 5911 Alder street, Pitts­burgh.1918: Rudyard Porter, Engineer­ing, care American T. & T. Plate Company, Wood Works, McKees­port, Pa.; C. L. Yost, Industries, 1521 Pcnnock Road, North Side, Pittsburgh; W. A. Readio, Arts, Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh; Rachel Beatty, Margaret. Morrison, 413 S. Dallas avenue, Pittsburgh.1923: Paul C. Gannon, Engineer­ing, 5705 Callowhill street, Pitts­burgh; Donald B. Cookson, In­dustries, 5245 Forbes street, Pitts­burgh; Henry C. Brockman, Arts, care Eric Fisher Wood Company, Hardy & Iiays Building, Pitts­burgh; Dorothy Grant Hosford, (Mrs. E.) Margaret Morrison, 527 Hastings street, Pittsburgh.1928: James Austraw, 4147 Mur­ray avenue, Pittsburgh, Indusaries; Meredith Stump, 7633 Bennett street, Pittsburgh, Arts; Mary Mc­Guire, Margaret Morrison, 919 Amity street, Homestead, Pa.; Clark Johnson, Engineering, 5017 Forbes street, Pittsburgh.Reading through that list • of names you just know that there will be a "good time” awailing you homecoming Week.Further information will be sent you through the “Alumnus,” which will appear early in Octobcr. Fix the dates of the Homecoming in your mind, or better, mark them on your desk calendar, so that you can plan lo be back for the big­gest and best alumni event of the year. More alumni return at the lime of the Pitt-Tech football game Ilian at any' other time of the year and you-; will want, . to be among '1110111. This second alumni homecoming promises to be “The. Affair of the Year.”
’26 Engineering Graduate 
Scores With General Electric
Mr. Brisbane wants to know know why intelligent people will! pay a million dollars to see a prize fighL The answer probably is that! they do so because there aren’t enough complimentary tickets to go around.
AT A COUNTY CRICKET MATCH O N 
A F A MOUS E N G L I S H GROUND s'
“WELL PLAYED, SIRI”
On their cricket fields many generations of English­
men have been imbued with the very highest prin­
ciples of sportsmanship. With these discriminating 
gentlemen the BBB FIR STUN briar pipes have 
been accepted as the traditional favorite.
Most sportsmen enjoy to the full the good things of life. For 
generations BBB Own Make briars have been carefully 
selected, appreciatively smoked, and fondly cared for by 
particular pipe smokers.
OOO FIR STUN pipes are masterly made, as always, of 
the choicest century-old briar root. Each combines—in those 
distinctive shapes that appeal to fastidious tastes—expertness 
of manufacture and perfect smoking qualities. The traditional 
cool mellowness is assured by the famous old individual-bak- 
ing process, exclusive with BBB FIR STUND
BBB Own Make briar pipes are made either in the highly 
iolished smooth finish or in the sand-blasted ripple finish, all 
utli the red diamond on the stem. The price of each is $5. 
7m. Demuth & Co., New York, Chicago, San Francisco, 
stablished 1862.
OWN
Combining good common sense with the three proverbial “P’s"— "Push, Pep, and Personality”—is undoubtedly the fundamental sys­tem behind 'the succcss of Mr. J. L. Knight, Carnegie Institute of Technology, '26. Mr. Knight has recently been made a member of the Refrigeration Engineering De­partment of the General Electric Company at Schenectady, New 
York, and has been assigned to duties in connection with the Gen­eral Electric Company refrigerator 
cabinet design.
Mr. Knight entered the Testing Department of the General Electric Company at Schenectady shortly after his graduation from the Car­negie Institute of Technology, and received an assigmcnt to experi­mental refrigerator work as his first test. His test work naturally stim­ulated his interest in refrigerator design, and after three months in this department he suggested a method of connecting the inner and outer surfaces of the refrigerator case in such a manner that the two surfaces arc very efficiently 
insulated from each other. In ad­dition to this, the suggested con­struction enables the box to- be more easily cleansed besides en­hancing its appearance considerably.
The fundamental value of Mr. Knight’s suggestion was immediate­ly seen by the engineers in charge, but for many reasons it was not possible to put the suggestion into immediate effect. Its adoption would involve costly changes in llie manufacturing process, and there were furthermore many details which must first be worked out.So it was not until nearly two years after the suggestion had-been made, that Mr. Knight found him­self the- exceedingly surprised and very proud possessor of a twelve hundred dollar reward form the General Electric Suggestion' Com­mittee. It is through this. Sugges­tion System that many employees of the Company often find them­selves more than repaid for the lime and effort spent in working out the details of a more efficient way of making or doing things, or a safer way of conducting a manu­facturing process'. While -Mr. Knight’s reward is exceptional since | it is the largest award ever granted a General Electric Employee for a single suggestion, his case is only one of many where a little ad­ditional thought has been rewarded.Mr. Knight is a good example of that type of man who refuses to be dominated by the immensity of his surroundings, or who dodges the rut of: “Let George do it!”
Allerton House Of Chicago 
Sets Precedent For Inter­
collegiate Alumni Hotels
THETA TAU STARTS FALLPROGRAM NEXT WEEK
The first fall meeting of Nu Chapter of Theta Tau/ national professional engineering fraternity, will be held in the chapter room in Engineering Hall on Thursday evening, October 4, at seven-thirty. 
Matters of importance in starting the year’s program will be dis­cussed, and all members are re­quested to be present on time. Refreshments will be served.
University Restaurant
OPEN DAY AND NIGHT 
Home Cooking 
4605 Forbes St., Near Craig
Our Service 
First in Favor
Two great qualities place 
our catering entertain­
ment service first in favor. 
We are modemly and 
adequately equipped for 
every type of affair, and 
we are unfailingly reliable 
in performance.
¿Menus and estimates 
submitted without obligation. 
Phone us for suggestions.
Weddings a Specialty
Miss Margaret McCann, who has been appointed head librarian of the new Knoxville sub-branch of Carnegie Library, which has re­cently been formally opened, is the youngest of Carnegie head librarians. Miss McCann was grad­uated from Carnegie Tech in 1927, after which she served a year as assistant to the librarian of the South Side branch of the Carne­gie library.* * *
Duquesne University’s music de­partment enters on its third year with two new teachers, former I Carnegie students, added to its j faculty. They are Theresa Demp-1 sey, a graduate of the Carnegie ’ school of music, and Miss Hilda Schuster, teacher of curythmics.
* * *
Clifford P. Graham, a former Carnegie student, has recently suc­ceeded Karl H. Bcrgey as treasurer of the Lcwistown Trust Company. During the past eight years, Gra­ham has been connected with the Russell National Bank of Lewis- town, for whom, during the last four years lie has served as an a-.istant cashier.Mr. Graham, as a student of Carnegie, followed a course of study in metallurgical engineering.* * *
Miss Suzanne Keener, who is known in musical circles as the youngest^ coloratura soprano of the Metropolitan Opera Company, re­cently featured in a'broadcast pro­gram over the National Broadcast­ing Company System. Her voice, then, was heard for the first time by radio listeners, and queries be­gan to come in concerning the yjuiig soprano.Miss Keener will make* a series of personal appearances through­out the country this fall under con­tract to the National Broadcasting Company system. .Miss Keener, who was born in Pittsburgh and was educated at Carnegie, designs her own cos­tumes and arranges her own set­tings for her concert appearances.* * *
Carleton Young, of Westfield, Npw York, and a Carnegie student, has been made an assistant to Di­rector Tim Frawley of the Wagner stock unit, for which company he 
has been playing since June, 1928.* * *
A. W. Kakitty has joined theIlluminating Engineering Depart­ment of the Benjamin Electric Manufacturing Company of Chi­cago. He is a Carnegie graduate and before his affiliation with the Benjamin Company was associated with the National Lamp Works of General Electric Company, as il­luminating engineer, at Ncla Park. * * *
D. K. Mims, who holds a Bache­lor of .Science degrc- from Car­negie, is chief research engineer with the Jamison Cold Storage Door Company. He has recently been elected to membership in the American Society of Refrigeration Engineers.Mr. Mims, a member of the Kappa Sigma Fraternity also stands high among the structural engi­neers of Virginia, having taken second place in the State Engi­neers' examination last year. Mr. Mims appeared in the recent pro­duction of the Potomac Playmak- crs, “The Whole Town’s Talking,” and is also connected with the local Boy Scout movement.* * *
W. J. Fender, a graduate of the Carnegie mechanical engineering course, 1912, has been appointed mechanical engineer of the Schaef­er Equipment Company, Pittsburgh. Fender’s first business experience was obtained in the chemical de­partment, of the _ Crucible Steel Company of America. In 1913 lie entered the employ of Gftither and Bradley, and was engaged in the making of patent office drawings. In 1914, lie joined the engineering department of the Clark Car Com­pany, his work with that company being in connection with car de­sign and development'. Mr. Fender left the Clark Car Company, to go to the Schaefer Equipment Com­pany as mechanical engineer.* * *
Prof. II. B. Meek, of the depart­ment of Hotel Administration at Cornell University, has announced the appointment of Richard S. Uhr- brock, Ph.D., as head instructor in psychology^ in the hotel course. Uhrbrock is a graduate of Car­negie and has had considerable ex­perience as an industrial psycholo­gist. He will devote considerable time to personnel work with the students.* * *
John F. Eckel, who was recently awarded his Master’s degree from the Carnegie Institute of Tech­nology, left for New York City, where he will do research work in the laboratories of the Bell Telephone Company.* * *
James E. Lose, a graduate of the Mechanical Engineering course of _ Carnegie, has been appointed assistant general superintendent of Homestead Works,^ Carnegie Steel Company, succeeding Ralph H. Watson. Mr. Lose has been iden­tified since 1910. with the Carrie furnaces, which supply pig iron to the' Homestead Works. He started .is a tracer in the drawing room at the Carrie furnaces and success­ively served as draftsman, stock house foreman, superintendent of construction, assistant superintend­ent of blast furnaces—assuming the latter position in September, 1924. He presented a paper, “Operation of Large Hearth Furnaces,” at the 1927 spring meeting of the Amer­ican Iron and Steel Institute. He is a member of this institute and also of the Eastern States Blast Furnace and Coke Oven Associa­tion.
* * *
Daniel F. Cassidy, a commercial engineering graduate of 1922, was recently appointed as business man­ager of the Highland _ and Mon­trose offices. The appointment was announced by J. H. Moore, central district manager of the Bell Tele- plione^ Company.Until his new appointment, Mr. Cassidj' occupied the position of commercial results supervisor for , tlie Western Pennsylvania area. Prior to that time he was- an
The Allerton House, Official In­tercollegiate Alumni Residence of Chicago, was the first of the Inter­collegiate Alumni Hotels to open an Employment Bureau for col­
lege people. The Allerton House is a 1,000-room club residence and accommodates on the average of nearly 1,000 permanent guests, both men and women. Out of this num­ber of permanent guests, there arc 
from 500 to 600 college graduates.The management through their contact with so many college peo­ple, had the following facts brought to their attention: First, that the college man or woman coming to Chicago to look for employment comes with smcthing to sell; he or she comes equipped with some sjiccialized or technical training and is in’ search of an employer who wants to buy his services. Second, 
there is the employer who is in search of some one with specialized or technical training whose services he wishes to buy. The one knows that the other exists, but does not know where to find him. The ob­ject of the Allerton House in starting this r.crvice is to facilitate the college man’s getting in con­tact with empioyers who can offer him desirable employment.The Allerton House started its employment service by calling on the larger business houses, 2,000 in number, in the city, with the object of acquainting the business men with the employment service that they were going to render and to ask for the business men’s co­operation.This service at first was only for guests of the Allerton, but the demands from the employers soon made' it neccssarj' to call on the alumni secretaries of various schools all over the United States who in turn would communicate with in­terested alumni. Through their co­
operation it has developed by leaps and bounds and from all indica­tions at present it looks as though this unique Allerton employment service will be the most extensive of its kind.An exceptional opportunity at this time is a request for a col­
lege man to fill the assistant man­agership of the Chicago Allerton House. He must be experienced in hotel operation, about 35 -years of age and an athlete.
n—n—.n—--ï-T-n,,—.o—o—u—y . , lege of Texas and graduate
; /^x A tv T 'I\.TT7'T7S7rO : i v/UtSÎHIlUinff bUâI126S 111 tllG , year at .fblins Hopkir ICLAN NEWb ! r, u I 1n„o T , , Varsity; Department ot Agr1_______________________j. Faculty for 1928 Indude WÄO
Northern New Jersey Clan Many Promotions and University of PcnnsvlvanThe Northern New Jersey Clan Kindred McLcary, foriiicrlis looking forward to the Carnegie-1 ÂnnninfrnpiifcGeorgetown game at Albany onNovember 10 and will be there in ____
full strength. ! Chester B. Wallace to Suc-The first meeting of the season is being planned and will be held! ceed Professor Iden Payne 
in Newark about the first of Octo- ’ —
assistant engineer for the same arer.
* * *
Kenneth Thompson, a. forinc Carnegie Drama student, is play­ing with Virginia Valli and Ian Keith in “The Street of Illusion.” His dramatic ability brought him to the attention of Charles Froli- 
inaii, who has recently starred him in several productions.* * *
Miss Katherine Rhodes, gradu­ate in the Music Department, has opened a studio a.t her .home in Donora. Miss Rhodes has had an extensive education, studying under Gracomo Spadoni, assistant con­ductor ;of the Chicago Civic Opera, and was graduated with distinction froin^ Chicago Musical College. It was in New York that Miss Rhodes appeared in several Broadway thea­ters, both in vocal lumbers and pantomimes.Although her chief interest is as a vocalist, she has given a careful study to instrumental music.* * *
Mary Ballon Shaw of Pittsburgh has undertaken the decorating of the nursery at St. Margaret’s Hos­pital of this city. Miss Shaw is a portrait artist by choice and began this w<5rk at the request of a i..ember of the social service board. Since then, she has found this work fascinating and has contracts for other mural decorations.Miss Shaw has had paintings hung two years in the Associated Artist's’ Exhibition at Carnegie In­stitute^ and she is represented in the Minnesota Artists’ Association. She taught night school at Car- ncgie^ Tech last year and attended additional classes on a scholarship she won for her work.
ber. Notices will be mailed^ soon and will also appear in the Tartan. Efcction and installation of officers will take place at this meeting.We arc glad to •welcome Ii. J. McCorkle to our district and to fellowship in the Clan.Southern California ClanAt the present writing our at­tentions are focused on that com­ing football struggle—Pitt versus Tech. We feel that this 3rear our team has “IT" and are placing our bets accordingly.Bob Dake is here—and to stay, we hope—being wined and dined by aviation enthusiasts and Holly­wood’s Elite. Bob, you. know, won second place in that air race from New York to Los Angeles. We hope to give Bob a nice, quiet party after the mob wears him out.Our last party was held three weeks ago at Duke Neville’s Pala- 
mar Tennis .Club- Mrs. Neville and Duke rank number one .as play­ers at this club. At the present time Duke and the Mrs. are com­peting in the State Tournament in Colorado and the latest news is that they will return with the 
bacon. .Our Clan holds a luncheon party every Friday noon-at the City Club in Los Angeles, so if any of you folks are out this way for sun­shine or good clam chowder, drop An attempt has been made to organize a riding club, but it seems like a hopeless effort to get most of them in the habit!Webb Cunningham is the latest to join our Clan. Webb is man­ager of the Montgomery Ward Store in Burbank, having been transferred from ’Frisco. Pat Ryan tells me that lie is going back at 
Christmas time lo look over the gang—here’s your chance, girls; he is still a singular number. Saw the orphans—Eddie and John Gil­bert on Hollywood Boulevard look­ing 'em over—Eddie says nothing but a Tech victory will make him pay his Clan dues. So boys, do your stuff; the treasury is low. Rudy- Brandin is our champion golfer, but Jim Hall is practicing faithfully and promises to do bet­ter than 100 in a very short time. We arc very happy to say at this lime that Mrs. Brandin, who has beeii quite ill, is much improved. Outside of mentioning the 'fact that Welby Hudson shaved his head in a desperate attempt of rejuvena­tion there are no other items worthy of mention.Yours for'a successful football season,Floyd C. Fisher,Pres. So. Calif. Clan.
Bess Kathryn Johnson, a former "star” student in the Drama De­partment at Carnegie, is receiving high praises from world famous dramatic critics.
Miss Johnson, the daughter of Senator and Mrs. Johnson of El­kins, West Virginia, has won the admiration of play-goers in Chica­go at the Goodman Theater, where she has been playing leads.This talented young lady joined the North Shore Theater Guild of Chicago after a year of success with the Goodman Plaj'ers, but last year there was such .a demand for her return _ to the _ Goodman that she is again pleasing drama lov­ers and even the dramatic critics.
A cooking expert of wide train­ing and experience, Miss Lucille Ramirez, has been awarded the position of home economist for the commercial department of the Washington Water Power Com­pany.
Miss Ramirez attended Washing­ton State College for three years, following which she won her B. S. degree in the department of Home Economics at Margaret Morrison Carnegie College, in 1917.She taught in the Pittsburgh pub­lic schools for four years. She has already assumed her position with the local electric company.
As Robert E. Dake, 1921 gradu­ate of Carnegie, brought his plane to a stop a bare few seconds be­fore that of Earl Rowland at Mid­land, Texas, lie took the lead in Cless A of the Trans-Continental Air Derby recently, only to lose it again when both Theodore Kenyon and W. II. Emery led him into El Paso, the overnight stop. lie had been “on the tail” of Rowland’s plane since they started off from Roosevelt Field. He finally finish­ed the race in second place.Dake, now thirty-three years old, is an architect from Pittsburgh. During the war lie served as a lieu­tenant in the flying corps and un­til 1922 was chief pilot for several aircraft companies, even while at­tending school. He was a con­testant in the air derby in 1927, and is now president of the Pitts­burgh Aero Club
Northern New Jersey ClanThe Northern New Jersey Clati announces an important meeting at tlie^ Wilkins Coffee Shop, 7 West Park avenue, Newark. The meeting will take the form of a stag smoker and will include the elec­tion of officers for the coming 
year.It is essential for the future of the clan that there be a good turn­out. Bring your ideas, suggestions 
and comments.Be there by 8:30 p. m., Thurs­day; September 27.
in Drama Dept.
Outstanding among the changes are the appointment of Glenn U. Clecton, associate professor of edu­cation and psychology, to be head of the Department of Industrial Education; Dr. James C. Morehcad, associate professor of architecture, to be professor of graphics, and Chester M. Wallace, professor of 
drama, to be head of the Depart­ment of Drama. As head of the drama department, Professor Wal­lace will succeed Professor B. Iden Payne, who is giving up his work as a full-time professor to becomc visiting professor,Other promotions announced are the following: Jose B. Alemany,from instructor to assistant pro­fessor of modern language; Fred E. Berquist, from assistant professor to associate professor of economics; Frederic C. Claytcr, from assistant professor to associate professor of painting and decoration; Louis C. Hunter, from instructor to assistant professor of ' history: Joseph B.Rosenbach, from assistant professor to associate professor of mathe­
matics; Louis Squiticri, from as­sistant to instructor in sculpture; Harold J. Sloman, from instructor to assistant professor of mining engineering; Frederick C. Swan­son, from assistant professor to associate professor of history.Seventeen new appointments to the full-time faculty of the- Car­negie Institute of Technology for the new.year have been made. The list of newcomers includes eight assistant professors, eight instruc­tors and one lecturer. In addition, the appointments of one new in­structor in the night classes in art and two-student assistants in the Department of Architecture have been made.Appointments to assistant profes­sorships arc as follows: Depart­ment of Sculpture, Paul Fjeldc, New York, N. Y., who has- been appointed for one year to assume the work of Professor Joseph B. Ellis, who is on leave of absence; Department of English, Lester >M. Beattie, formerly assistant pro­fessor of English at Tufts College; Department of Mathematics, Turner L. Smith, who has been studying mathematics and theoretical physics at Goettingen University, Germany, during the past year as holder of. a traveling fellowship from Har­vard; Department of Modern Lan­guages, Vincent G. Parisi, formerly associate professor at Amherst Col­lege, and this year a graduate stu­dent at Harvard College; Herbert C. Tidwell, formerly an instructor at Agricultural and Mechanical Col-
profcssor of architecture University of Texas; D of Education and Psychol anc$ F. Shaffer, former! associate, the Lincoln Tcachcrs’ College, Coin vcrsity.
Instructors named for .... year include: Department of E'\^lisli, Donald M. Goodfellow, 1\Arthur Franzen and Walter de Bi Briggs, graduate students this year at Harvard, and Miss Katherine Burton, graduate student this year at Rad cl iff e College; Department of History, Norman 11. Dawes, gradu­ate of Boston University and liar- vard University; Department ofAccounts, Allan J. Fisher, B. S., University of Pennsylvania, ’2S; Department of Printing, Robert F. Lane, B. S., University of Oregon, and formerly instructor at Wood­row Wilson High School, Long Beach, Cal.; Department of Me­
chanical Engineering, Lynn II.Clarkson, B. S., University of Illi­nois.
Dr. Charles licinrolh, organist-' and director of 'music of the Car ­negie _ Institute, has accepted an invitation to become a lecturer cyi Musical- Aesthetics. Roy Hilton d>f Winchester, Mass., has been namcfd a night instructor in the Depart­ment of Painting and Decoration. 
Undergraduate appointments in t/he Department of Architecture include those of Paul K. Schell of .Pity>- bnrg as massier, and James Rcjb- ertson, Jr., of Pittsburgh, as junior student assistant. Miss Clara Miller, instructor in the Dcpart-j ment of Science_ of the Margaret Morrison Carnegie College, is re­turning this year after a year's) leave of absence.
NEWMAN CLUB TO HOLD RECEPTION FOR INCOM­ING STUDENTS OCT. 2-3
Introduction by a friend is usually the safest way to make new acquaintances. For about fifteen years this paper has in­troduced its students to a de­pendable “Service Station" for Invitations, Programs, Gifts, Pens, Pen Repairs, etc. Refer to this notice if you patronize the Singer Pen & Gift Shop, 
Jenkins Arcade.
Milwaukee Clan
R. O. Pcrrine, Secretary of Mil­waukee Clan, announces the time of monthly meetings of the clan for this year. Luncheon meetings will come on the first Monday of each month. Arrangements may be made by communicating with Mr, Pcrrine at 1425 Cedar street.
New York Clan
During the week-end of July 21, Austin V. (Doc) Stewart invited a crowd for a stag party at his summer home in Babylon, Long Island. A gala time was had, es­pecially the several trips in the cabin cruiser, ‘‘Rock - and - Rye.” Among. those who disported them­selves were J. W. Piotrowsld, M. A. Buckley, A. W. Schillinger, Teasdale Barney, O.’ A. Dickinan, C. J. Anderson, J. A. Iiogan and W. R. Wagner.
Cleveland Clan
The Cleveland Clan is meeting at a luncheon today, 12:30 at Bo- hannan and Haines, Carnegie Buildig.A. C. May wishes to remind the Cleveland fellow-members again of two events of special interest to them as Cleveland alumni. They are:. 1. Carnegie vs. Westminster Col­lege—September 29, Rayen High School stadium, Youngstown, Ohio. 
Kick-off at 2:30 p. m.Reserved seats, $1. General ad­mission, 50 cents.2. Carnegie vs. Pitt, Home Com­ing Day, October 27, at Pitt Stadium.It is interesting to note that “Red” Gadden, of the Cleveland Clan is heading the committee in charge of the plans for Home Coming Day.The game at Youngstown is now less than one week away, and at the last report, there are 26 go­ing with the Painesville crowd alone. There should be ten times that number from Cleveland! Send in your application for tickets to the alumni office now. There is no time to lose!Arrangements are being made so that the clan may get together for dinner after the game. Be there!
Attention Students!
We sell and rent all makes 
of typewriters. Portable and 
Standard Machines.
See onr Big-Supply and get 
special student rates.
Standard Typewriter 
Company
129 FIFTH AVENUE 
Atlantic 0342
Rcfccptions for men and women students will be held by the New-;'1 man Club at the Cathedral High 
School. The ' Women’s reception i will take placc on Tuesday, Oc- t iber 2, and the Men’s on YVcdncs- da)r, Octobcr 3. An interesting program has been arranged for both events.
How Gold 
Prospector 
"Went Scotch”
Minneapolis, Minn.April 30, 1928
Larus & Bro. Co.Richmond, Va.Dear Sirs:
Two years ago last winter I went into the Red Lake gold fifild Canada. It was a tough trail , Hudson, over 140 miles of snow ice. There were fourteen of us on tho! trail going in, and frequently at night! when seated around a big camp fire.j some one would ask me for a pipeful of Edgeworth. These Canadian boys sure like our Edgeworth.
In four weeks’ time I ran out of Edgeworth. I was glad to get ’most any old tobacco.
One day, however, I dropped in to Dad Brown’s tent, a 72-year-old pros­pector, and seeing a can of Edgeworth on an improvised table, back there 150 miles from the “steel,” I perked up at once, saying, “Dad, I’m plum out of tobacco—how’s chances for a pipe­ful?” "Help yourself,” he said. So pulling my heavy duty pipe from my pocket, I loaded it with Edgeworth, packing it in so tightly that I couldn't get the least bit of a draw.
I excused myself for a moment, and stepped outside to remove about three pipefuls to put in my pouch. Dad stepped out, saying, “You’re worse than any Scotchman I ever saw.” Then I confessed. I told him what happened to my Edgeworth—that I was just dying for a smoke, and lie understood right away. Ho said, “Boy, Edgeworth fa mighty scarce in these parts, but I reckon I can spare what’s left of that can. Help yourself.” 
You can just bet your last nickel that I guarded this Edgeworth, with extreme care until I got back to the “steel.”Yours very truly,
C. M. Bahr
Edgeworth
Extra High Grade
Smoking Tobacco
STUDENT COUNCIL NOTICL
The attention of 'all members of the Student Council is called to the first meeting of the 1928-29 ex­ecutive body at 7:30 o’clock this evening in the Student Council :ooms on the second floor of In­dustries Building. All representa­
tives should be present-
To Reach the Goal
Is the objective of the careful prepara­
tion now being made by the splendid 
athletes of Pitt and Tech.
Every person has set a goal to reach in 
their journey of life. A strong banking 
connection is a decided help to that end; 
your strong Oakland Bank presents to 
you a service that will meet your every 
requirement.
Stop in today and consult our officers— 
it may prove to your advantage.
Oakland Savings & Trust Co.
“THE OAKLAND BANK”
MEMBER OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM
Where Meyran Crosses Forbes Street

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1928.THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
Zhc Carnegie flMaib
A Section of the Tartan Devoted to the Night Students
Pittsburgh Employers As 
“Assistant Deans”
In the preceding issue ol the Skibo, an article appeared under the above caption giving the names of I lie firms that arc co-operating with the Carnegie Institute of Technol­ogy in advising and enrolling stu­dents who are interested in 'he evening school. Through an inad­vertence the name of one of the firms on Ihc list aj that time was omitted. Further, since the pub­lication .»f the first list, other firms have indicated their willingness to assist us with this project.The names not ,>rcviously pub­
lished are:Blaiv Knox Co. (Mr. Wayne Hawley; Vicc: [’resident).IJ. C. J-rick Coke Co. (Mr. C. L. Albright, Assistant Secretary).General Electric Co. (Mr. C. L. Riegel).The Koppers Co. (Mr. C. D. Collins, Chief Draftsman and Mr. A. I- Watson and Mr. H. H.
Hook).Manufacturers Light & Meat Co. (Mr. H. A. Gager, Special Agent).News Tribune Printing Co. (Mr. J. H. Rodgers, Manager).Union Railroad Co. (Mr. W. S. McAbee, General Superintendent; Mr. J. W. Wyke, Transportation Department; Mr. R. C. McIntyre* Mechanical Department; Mr. O. jenker, Transportation Department; Mr. A. F. Coulter, Car Department; Mr. R. R. Jack, Office Employees 
and Miscellaneous Groups).Vulcan Crucible Steel Co. (Mr. R. M. Kelso, Superintendent).Robert B. Lcighou,: Associate Director Night Courses.
THE SKIBO—ADIEU Insignia Presentation
Night Student
Breakage Donation
Several references have been made about the fund to the Night' Students that it would not be amiss to concludc with the following let­ters, which transpired relative to this feature:September 6, 1928. Dear Dr. Baker:During the school year 1927-28, the Night Students were solicited, through the Skibo, to donate their Breakage Refund to the Carnegie Institute, of Technology to be al­lotted to several purposes. An amount of $725.65 was subscribed towards the Carnegie Endowment Fun, and enclosed you will find voucher covering this donation. This should be known as Ihc Night Student 1927-28 Endowment Fund Donation.Most sinccrcly,E. E. McDonald. To which the following reply was received:
N2 5 • Dear Mr. McDonald:
T acknowledge your letter of September 6 and your check for $725,65 as a contribution to the Carnegie Endowment Fund. This check I am transmitting to the president of the Board of Trustees.I wish to assure . yon of tli'eir arid my appreciation of your in­terest. and 1 will be indebted to you if you will convey my thanks to the. members of the night school who have contributed to this fund. With best wishes,Very sincerely yours, Thomas S. Baker.It gocs without saying that the Night Student Council also wishes to thank the students for their generosity.
You have just seen the las; issue of the S1<ibo in its present form. This is the administration’s publi­cation, and they were kind enough to allow us to publish articles from time to time, serving as it were to link all of us up into a mighty chain. Several times a paper of our own was thought of but there were so many angles which had to be taken into consideration that it was felt we were not ready to launch the project. The past year a meeting of various groups was called and the outcome was that the night student body, through the Night Student Council would be given page three of the Tartan, and would have its own staff, ctc. The Tartan will also be mailed to all registered Night Students, the cost being met by the Night .Stu­dent Council.The Skibo. knd when I say Skibo. I mean all that was con- iK-ctcd with it, has been most kind to us. The issue that you have just received .marks the end as now issued. I want to lake this oc­casion to thank Mr. Clark and his staff for the many kindnesses shown our group. It is with re­gret that I use the phrase "au revoir,” but this is ‘tempered with the fact that the paper will ap­pear on the. campus at intervals, and will serve ariothc.- purpose.
Dinner—N. S. C.! !
Are You Coming Back?
WHAT’S WRONG WITH 
THE THISTLE
The writer is tired answering in­quiries relative the 1928 Thistle and would like to be informed just how things stand.
Several Night students have pur­chased one or more copies of the Thistle, and are wondering what has become of them. At best it is not very easy to arouse interest in the night students regarding this all Carnegie publication, and it is disheartening not to be ac­corded any consideration.In connection with The Tartan several group pictures were taken, and night students had requested to make individual purchase of this; The privilege was granted, ond some pictures were ordered, but no copies have as yet been ieceived.
Will the parties who arc in pos­session of tlijs elusive information please come forth with a solution.
E. E. McDonald.
It was the evening of June 23 I j and an overcast sky threatened to j i disrupt the plans the N. S. C. had made for its annual Insignia Pre­sentation Dinner. Despite a slight drizzle and promises of a shower, everybody turned out. for that mo­mentous occasion.
At the appointed time everybody rnoyed to the spacious dining room and there enjoyed a dinner as only 
the Ruskin chef can prepare. After the dinner a few speeches followed, lauding the Night Student Body, the Council, and a few men in par­ticular who had contributed great­ly to the success of that body. Per­haps the most noteworthy of those mentioned was Mr. E. E. Mc­
Donald, through whose untiring ef­forts a great deal of the. success of 'the Council is due. As a token of esteem those present donated toward a fund with which to pur­chase a gift for Mr. McDonald, expressing their appreciation for 
his efforts in behalf of the Night Students.
A surprise and riovel feature of this dinner was some impromptu 
music furnished through the cour­tesy of Miss Lefridge, Miss Rickert 
and Mr. Roberts.The Council Insignia was award­ed to 53 night students after which the assembly broke up , and all de­parted with a feeling of great satis­faction for having done some good fcr their fellow students.
Much credit and thanks are due to the committee who worked up this affair and I am sure those 
present will join me in extending expressions of appreciation.
’ S. P.
Idle Thoughts of an Idle Night Studentj ! At this time of the year one’s * : thonrhfs arn of and abolit school.
DANCING At JACQUES SCHOOL
CRAIG & FORBES ST.
Beginners Mondny nml Friday Eve­
nings. Advanced. Thursdny nnd Sntur- 
dny Evenings. Private lessons l.y np- 
Mayflower 7891
Night Student Enters
Naval Academy
. AiiolTier of the night students has left Carnegie: for nCw fields. 
Harris,C. Lockwood, for two years a student here in the night en­
gineering school, is now a mid­shipman at the United States Naval 
Academy at Annapolis, Maryland.lu February of this y<pr he rc- aived the principal appointment 
to the Naval Academy from the Thirty-second Congressional Dis­trict of New York State. He suc­cessfully passed the substantiating 
examinations in April and was or­dered to report for a physical ex­amination June 19. After success­fully passing this, he was admitted to the Academy as a Midshipman.
Let’s Go To
TECH
Barber Shop
FOR OUR HAIR CUTS
CORNER FORBES & CRAIG 
STREETS
ENTHUSIASM—is the dynamics of your personality. Without it, whatever abilities you may have, lie dormant. You may possess 
knowledge, sound judgment, good leasoning faculties, but no one will know it until you discover how to put y.our heart into thought and action. A wonderful thing is this quality which we call enthusiasm. 
If you would “lilfe to be a power among men, cultivate enthusiasm. People will like you better -for it; you will escape the dull routine, of a mechanical existence and you 
will make headway wherever you 
are.J. Ogden Armour.
FIRST PUPPET WILL 
APPEAR WEDNESDAY
.Have you heard about Puppet's Political Platform? Arc you up to snuff on all the latest Campus gos­sip? Do you know about Puppet’s Matrimonial Bureau? The New Puppet offers all this and more in its Beginners' Number which will make its appearance, on the Campus the first day of school. Yearly subscription1 cards will be on sale on the Campus all this week.The Beginners’ Number will con­tain much good advise which no He Plebe can afford to miss. Then too, even the dignified Senior will' find many a chuckle in “The Sage Of Skibo" and "Bye The Way.” Clever up your conversation by grabbing off a copv of the New Puppet.Puppet offers excellent opportu­nities for Pieties wishing to go out for either editorial or business de­partments of this Campus publica­tion. Those interested should apply at the Publication Office, lower floor, Industries Building between 11:30 and 12:30 any day this week. Let’s make this a great year for Puppet.
Winter is too cold for work; Freezin' weather makes me shirk. 
Spring comes on and finds me wishin’1 could end my days a-fishin’.Then in summer, when it’s hot,1 say work can go to pot.Autumn days, so calm and hazy, 
Kinda sort makes me lazy.That's the way. the season’s run, 
Seems I can't git nothin' done.The fellow who wrote the above 
lines doesn’t have a thing on me except for the fact that he was alv.ays loafing whereas 1 am al­ways doing something but still not getting anything done. And then 
•'to "make matters worse they had 'to go' and consolidate the Skibo with the Tartan just at a time when things were running nice and smooth in this column. Now it 
will be' harder to think up a line that will appeal to everyone. How­ever, suppose if continue at it long enough will eventually find some­
thing to kick about and then watch 
the fur fly. •With respect to the consolida­tion though, it certainly is a fine thing and as mentioned in the last 
issue of the Skibo should do more than anything else to bring a 
closer bond between the day and night students. Now when you receive your copy of the Tartan you will have a perspective of the 
school as a.whole, and, not of just your own section as was the case m the past. Yes, sir, it certainly looks like a rosy future for the night students and in order show their appreciation the night men should endeavor to send all the copy that is possible. Of course, it is taken for granted that you will piclc--something interest 
mg to read about and not anything like this stuff. This only gets put in because it has been going on fot a long time arid seems like an. old friend. Ask the Editor if you don’t believe me.Have you noticed how nice the -Campus has been looking. Quite a contrast from previous years. The Administration has seen fit to spend real money for this much
could do would be to assist in taking care of the lawns and build­ings as far as they arc able. This will necessitate, of course, the use of the walks, throwing paper in tne places provided and other de­tails of similar nature. If the foot­ball team manages to beat Pitt or Notre Dame this year, you can walk on the roof of any building you want to as far as 1 am con­
cerned.How about guarding the stu­
dents’ automobiles. Last year quite few of the students suffered losses from this cause, in fact, , it got to be a regular thing. Now many of us must use a car if we ever intend coming to school at 
.all regularly and it seems that some measures can be taken to 
alleviate this condition to a more or less extent.There is no time like the present to mention a word or two about attendance in classes. . This is a valuable hint to the new men es­pecially. Most of those who soon find themselves in difficulty will admit their trouble started when 
they first missed class. The first time is difficult, but after that it becomes a habit and a hard one to break. So the best way to sdo is to resolve not to miss a class 
unless it is of the utmost import­ance to do it.Incidentally, while on the sub­
ject of attendance, let me remind you of another duty. . That is to attend the social functions ar­
ranged by the Night Student Coun­cil for your benefit. These affairs 
are intended to break the mo­notony of your work and to enable you to meet the students from 
•.lie various branches of Carnegie. They need you as much as you need them and after all is said and done going to school does not entirely consist of study and work since you can not apply what you know unless you can meet
Second Hand Book I THE HABIT
Exchange Established j OF CRITICISi
thoughts are of and j The papers are full of the topic.This leads us to the question—Arc we, or arc we not going Lack to C. I. T.?
Possibly some did not get the right start last year and were forced to drop by • the wayside.Others have finished one, two, three and perhaps more years and say,¦‘what’s the use.’’ True none of us know what the future holds for us. but by being equipped when an opportunity presents itself, and ,, • having the ability to meet the thts papc,‘ situation, stamps us as to whether we made good use of our time or not.
One often hears on the outside,“why do you go to night school so much, and miss all the good times, nothing bu. school and studyifig." Well it would be rather dull if such were the case, but to offset a condition of this kind sev­eral years ago a group of ener- * getic night students got together and started organizing a social function here and there. Their ef­forts culminated in a few years’ time into the formation of a Night Student Council which sponsors, not one or two, but a dozen or more social activities,- all aiming to instill some social contact or pleasure to compensate for the seeming dull regime of study-study- studv.
Word just came to us that there will be established a second hand book exchange where students may buy and sell their old text books.This is a great benefit to the 
night students and will enable them to buy their books at quite a reduction.The book cxcl.iangc will be lo­
cated in SKIBO INN, which is located back of the Gym. More complete information relative this service is published elsewhere in
"The habit of criticism gro\ upon us bccausc criticism is t' easiest thing in the world. It do not take a thimbleful of brains find fault, and the biggest nun skull in the world can find fan with the greatest men in the worl We flatter ourselves that criticist is a sign of superior intclligcnc It is not. It is usually a sign t bad manners, of. lack ot self-rt straint, and of an entire ignoranc of psychology.”
Dr. Frank Crane.
SUCCESS
talk to people to acquaint them ot your knowledge. By attending 
these affairs you learn self ex­
pression in the presence of others 
which will come in mighty handy
He has achieved success Who has lived well, laughed often, and loved much.Who has gained the respect of in­telligent men,And the love of little children; Who has filled his niche and ac­complished his task,Who has left the world better than he found it,W hether by an improved poppy, a perfect poem, or a rescued soul;
Who has never lacked appreciation of earth's’ beauty d | Nor failed to exp re
s
ike best kindofBSpommate
CRAIG RESTAURANT
412 South Craig: Street 
TRY OUR 
REGULAR DINNERS 
40c and 50c
YOUR MUSIC STORE
HUGHES MUSIC BOX
105 Atwood Street, Oakland 
Victor—Columbia—Brunswick Records 
Musical Supplies
An increase of 250 per cent in American exports of aircraft prod­ucts during the first three months of this year is revealed in a state­ment by the Transportation Divi­sion of the Department of Com mercc, June 4. Following is the full text: *During jthc first three month the current year, aircraft engines, parts.and accessories were export­ed from this country at a valua­tion of $S15,490, approximately 250 per cent greater than that for the first three months of last year, when all such products exported were valued at $234,337. The per­centage increase for aircraft alone.
needed' improvement and it seerns ! the balance of your life. I:ke the least the student body ¡‘dance.
So let’s
BUSINESS CONDITIONS
At;iio time during the yi^ir have there been any apparent reasons for serious apprehension about gen­eral business - conditions in this country for 1928. The second half of the year started out_ with some- what brighter prospecls than did the first half, and now as we get into the fall months with the sea­sonal buying to be added to the general run of business, the opti­mistic attitude is gaining headway.With but few- exceptions, the major manufacturing industries are busy, labor is well employed and at good wages, the prospecls arc favorable for the farmers to.secure a good yield from the crops, the movement of commodities as re­flected by railroad car loadings is increasing, the building industry is going ahead with the program for a big outlay in construction work, the use and consumption of mer­chandise continues at a high level and credit conditions are satisfac­tory.These and other favorable condi- ditions, together with the absence of anything to indicate that the Presidential campaign, with the election only two months away, is going to interfere with business,
“Hello, Central,” doesn't go in 
Russia. The telephone patron in Sovietland is compelled by law' to address the operator as “comrade" or “citizencss." In Germany the telephone operator is forbidden to bob her hair or wear any jewelry.
Who has always looked for the best in others,And given the best he had;Whose life was an inspiration A ..1 whose memory a benediction.—Author Unknown.
TECH BAKERY
AND
CONFECTIONERY
323 SO. CRAIG STREET 
Wholesale and Retail 
Fruit and Groceries
Rooming with 
a Remington 
Portable adds 
to the enjoy­
ment of college life. It is al­
ways ready to help with your 
work. Long reports and 
theses can be turned out in far 
less time, as compared with 
laborious long-hand methods. 
Then, too, think of the greater 
neatness and legibility of type­
written work ! Any prof, 
being human, will have a
tendency to 
give thi» kind 
of work better 
marks.
Remington Portable is the . 
recognized leader in sales and 
popularity. Smallest, lightest, 
most dependable, most com­
pact standard keyboard port­
able. Weighs only 8Vx pounds, 
net. Carrying case only 4 
inches high.
You can buy it on easy 
payments.
Remington
Portable
Carnegie Inatltlitc of Technology 
Administration Rldg.
Remington Rat]it Rimine»* Servier, Inc., 
IlcMHcnicr Bldg., 102 Sixth Street, Pittsburgh, Fa.
which includes both airplanes and seaplanes, was much greater thanthat of the total valuation of aero- { provide a sound basis for the meas- — ' 1 ¦’ ured optimism with which businessmen of the country face the lastnautical products exported, there being 49 aircraft valued at $509,419 exported during the first quarter of this -year, as compared with .five units at $84,576 during the same period of last year.
A “sunrise and sunset plant” in Oak Park, Illinois, consisting of. 
astronomical clocks set to accom- nodate the fluctuating seasons, controls one hundred miles of street lights. The "plant” turns on the lights at sunset and-. switches them off at sunrise.
quarter of the year.—Patton’s Monthly.
The entire population on earth, according to the League of Na­tions, is 1,906,000,000 persons. In the calendar year 1927, the Transit commission of New York City re­ported total passengers carricd on all surface cars, rapid transit buses and Hudson-Manhattan tubes as 3,202,800,000, fifty per cent more than the earth’s population.
College JewelrySeal Stationery ' — Pennants
G. M. STAUFT
3806 FORBES STREET
Loose Leaf Notebooks and General Students Supplies
STUDENT TAKE NOTICE
Special Rates For You At
TECH TAILORS
CLEANING, PRESSING AND TAILORING
"Come In and Sec STEIN”
Mayflower 779S 325 S. Craig St:
We Call and Deliver
Forbes National Bank
“Your Home Bank”
OFFICERS
RICHARD K. MELLON..., 
WM. S. PHILLIPS_____
THOS. H. McCANDLESS...
-Vice Pres, and Cashier 
----------Assistant Cashier
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
THOMAS S. BAKER
President Carnegie Institute of 
Technology
JOHN G. BOWMAN
Chancellor University of Pittsburgh
JOHN F. CASEY
President, John F. Casey Co. i
ELMER E. COLE
President National Union Fire 
Insurance Company
A. REX FLINN
President Duiiuesne Lumber Company
HOWARD M. JOHNSON
Auditor Ligonier Valley Railroad
RICHARD K. MELLON
President 
Director Mellon National Bank
WILLIAM S. MOORHEAD
Moorhead & Knox, Attorneys
HENRY A. PHILLIPS
Real Estotc
WILLIAM S. PHILLIPS
Vice President and Cashier
EDWARD R. WEIDLEIN
Director Melton Institute of 
Industrial Research
Student Accounts Welcome
FIFTH AND OAKLANDPITTSBURGH
GAS
points die waif.
^PRECISION instrument comprising in» 
numerable delicate parts, requiring 765 
A operations in manufacture ....
Think of producing such an instrument, and 
having only one in every five thousand rejected!
That record is maintained by one of America’s 
large manufacturers—a company that leads the 
world in the production of four distinct lines.
This company, with a keen eye for efficiency, 
uses gas, the modern fuel.
While there are naturally other factors than gas which enter into the company’s low record of rejects ....
Still it is undeniable that the result is due in no small measure to refinement in heat treating processes.
What this internationally-known company has learned about gas, you, too, should know. Your local gas company will gladly confer with you, showing you exactly how gas can ne employed advantageouslyin your plant, and what it will mean to you in increased efficiency, improved product and 
greater cconomy. Write or phone them today.
For free copy of book,“Indnstrial Gas Heat,” address
American Gas Association
420 Lexington Avenue, New York CityYou can do it bettes.* 
with Gas

---------------------------------------------------

Skrip, sueccssor to 
ink, makes all pens 
write better, and 
the Lifetime pen 
write best.
to produce easily three carbons of notes, corres­
pondence, confidential matters, &ives the Lifetime 
pen first place wherever pen values are carefully 
considered. Unconditionally guaranteed for a life­
time, the beauty and economy of these writing 
twins have easily earned them the seal of approval.
HLifetime” pen, $8.75 Lady "Lifetime”, $7.50 Others lower
"Lifetime" Titan oversize vencil to match, $4.25 
At better stores everywhere
SHEAFFER’S&$NS* &$NCILS • SKRI&
W. A.SHEAFFER PEN COMPANY - FORT MADISON, IOWA
THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2?. 1928.
BALLOT
American College Straw Vote conducted by THE 
TARTAN with all college dailies and College Humor 
on two Presidential Candidates. All college students 
regardless of age are eligible to vote. Returns on vote 
will be published in THE TARTAN, November 1st.
Mark this ballot and tear it out and drop it in 
ballot boxes at Administration Hall, immediately.
Herbert Hoover
Republican Candidate
Alfred E. Smith.............
Democratic Candidate
MARKAFTER ONE ONLY
Mark this ballot at once. All votes will be collected 
and counted September 28, 1928.
DEATH
During the summer Arina Jane Morgan, prominent student of the Freshman class in Margaret Mor­
rison, died following a serious operation. Miss Morgan lived in Bradford, Pa., and while at Car­negie was a resident of Magnolia Hall.- She was a very active stu­dent and held the secretaryship of her class. The student body ex­presses its sympathy to her family.
To Play At Week-End Dances
Carnegie Plebe Regulations 
Enforced by Sophomores 
and Supervised by Seniors
¡Students To Vote ANNUAL GUILD DRIVE
On Smith Or Hoover | TO BE HELD SOON
Because of the high interest m the November election of the Pres­ident, Tartan is co-operating with College Humor on a nation-wide straw vote to determine the vot­ing preference on the two dates in the American college com­
munities.All college students, regardless of age, are asked' to vote. Ihc complete student opinion is of much more interest than just the votes of those students who arc of voting • age, because we can then tell what the college world thinks of our two candidates.
Herbert Hoover, the Repub­lican candidate, was born in West Branch, Iowa. He re­ceived his degree in engineering at. Leland Stanford University in 1895 and has since been honored by twenty-seven other | universities. He held the posi- j tion of Food Conservator dur- I ing President Wilson’s term.
Alfred E. Smith, the'Demo- ¦ ; cratic candidate, was born in / New York City. He started his varied and successful ca­reer as newsboy and became one of New York’s leading men. He has been elected gov­ernor of New York Stale four times, and has a personality that is rare.
, The ballot will be found on page __ of this issue of the Tartan and it is hoped all students will regis­ter their vote. _ Tear out the bal­lot and deposit it in the boxes located at Administration Hall.I All votes will be cleared through College Humor and the returns from other American colleges, with pictures, will be run in the Tartan tboiil; November 1.
The Carnegie Tech Guild will launch its annual membership drive early in October. Guild is the only philanthropic organization on the Campus and was organized under the direction of the former dean of Margaret Morrison, Miss 
Linforth.Last year the Guild devoted its to many small projects. Under its sponsorship a children’spermanently established in one of the local hospitals. All of ifor this purpose were do-by the girls on the cam-
Guild appeals to the student for financial aid once a year through a membership driver ( For fifty cents one can be a memberof the Guild for one school .year and aid in its. worthy projects. Frances Guy, senior in the House­hold Economics department, has charge of the drive in M. M. C. C. Every girl on the campus should lend 'her enthusiastic support tosuch a worthy organization by 
buying a Guild tag.
After a few more Dempscy- runncy fights perhaps it will her running smoothly enough to take on tour like the old Sam Langford- Joe Jeanette act.
SCHENLEY
HAND
LAUNDRY
W. Y. ART, Prop.
418 S. CRAIG ST.
We Laundry Anything
P. M. I. CHORUS TO SING 
OPERA; ORCHESTRA
WILL BE IMPROVED
M. I. Chorus and Orchcs- 
begin rehearsals Wednes- vcning, September 26, in til
The 
tra wid! I .. ¦Institute recital room. The chorus wi. take up one, or more operas this year and will also undertake some choral work along other lines. The orchestra will have full instru­mentation this year instead of ex­clusively strings as .hitherto.Class lessons in all departments of the Institute begin Monday, Sep­tember 24. The classes offered at the Institute this year are Elemen­tary Theory, Harmony, Ear Train­ing, Counterpoint, Form and Analy­sis, Piano Teachers’ Normal classes, Piano and Violin Ensemble, *H.is- tory, Choin Training; Interpretation and Pedagogical M'ethods.
STUDENTS, ATTENTION!
Mnko n dny’a. wngcti for one hour’s work niter cliiKHCfi. No oxpuricncc or 
InvoHlmont Tiocoaanry. Wo tmvc nn 
oponinir ut Carncglo Tcch. Appllcn- 
CXI9 considorad in ordur of their re­ceipt. Write todny for free particulars.
BRADFORD & CO., Inc.
ST. JOSEPH, MICII.
One of the characteristics of most American colleges and universities is the system of regulating and controlling the jiptions of their lirst-year men, commonly called freshmen. Under this system fresh­men arc required to observe rules, many of which are ridiculous and irksome. They arc required to wear abnormally small caps or other conspicuous apparel in ordci tl-.it upper classmen may ..readily 
distinguish them from the other campus citizens.The desirability of plebe regu­lations is recognized at most schools land endorsed or tolerated by the ¡^school authorities. Usually a body ' of students, called the Student Council, is put in charge of regu­lations. By common consent the members of the second year, called Sophomores, arc appointed to super­vise the behavior of the Freshmen and lo see that their actions arc such that will bring joy into the hearts of the critical Juniors and Seniors. The Sophomores report the delinquent freshmen, who are posted for trial, and appear before Senior judge. The/ .Sophomores the punishment meted but by the judge and sec that all are carried out.At Carnegie the system is much the same as outlined above. The Senior judge is appointed by Stu­dent Council. Before drastic pun­ishment, Such as a haircut, may be awarded, the permission of Student Council must be obtained. Permis­sion for this is given when an underclassman has failed to attend three trials or for some other flagrant disregard for Plebe Regu­lations.Most of the regulations are out­lined in the handbook, but there arc many unwritten laws which freshmen find out only by hear­say.The regulations often seem to freshmen to be in force solely for the amusement of upperclassmen. 
The advocates of freshmen regula­tions believe that if freshmen regu­lations are properly enforced and observe'd both upperclassmen and underclassmen will be benefited. Very often a freshman away from home and in strange company docs not become acquainted readily and has not the feeling that he is really a part of the campus. When he is required to wear the school colors, speak to every member of his sex, and is molested by sopho­mores, he feels that he really be­longs. He sees others marked with the same insignia, and because of mutual grievances becomes ac­quainted. Oilier freshmen, who rather than being shy, are over­bold and, bedecked with school seals, parade the campus with an air of proprietorship and make themselves obnoxious. For these freshmen, nothing except making 
them look ridiculoiu will reduce their hat sizes to normal.To upperclassmen the responsi­bility which comes to them with the problem of enforcing regula­tions, brings to them the fact that they, too, are citizens of the cam­pus and that for them there are obligations and rewards.
First Church of Christ
SCIENTIST 
CLYDE ST., PITTSBURGH
SUNDAY SERVICES 
11 A. M. 8 P. M.Sunday School 11. A. M.Wednesday evening services 8 to 9
All Makes ot: Typewriters, New and Used 
Sold—Rented—Repaired
Carn egnn iflMbrgnMr Ca., Inc.
Royal Portable Distributors—COURT 8320 
New Main Store 
McCloy Bldg. Branch Store
624 LIBERTY AVE. 428 FO.URTH AVE.
President Thomas S. Baker to be- j Eligibility RlllcS come members of the advisory I °
THE COLLEGIATE IMPS
Twenty-Seventh International Art Exhibition Eleven Research FelloW- 
At Carnegie Institute, October 18 to 
December 9, to Include Works 
of 14 Countries
board of the Department of Metal­lurgical Engineering at .Carnegie I Institute of Technology, it is an- | 
nounced.The advisory board, which is composed of about 25 steel com­pany executives and metallurgists, is concerned primarily with the development of metallurgical re­search as now carried., on jointly by the Carnegie Institute of Tech­nology and the U. S. Bureau of Mines. Several important studies in ferrous metallurgy have been made under these auspices during the past few years. T. D. Lynch,* consulting'metallurgical engineer to the Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, is chair­man of the board for the coming year.Other members are: F. B. Bell, president, Edgewatcr Steel Co.; Dr. Earl Blough, technical director, Aluminum Company of America; V. B. Brown, general superinten­dent, Allegheny Steel Co.; C. A. Buck, vice president, Bethlehem Steel Co.; Roy TI. Davis, Pitts­
burgh; George H. Faunce, presi­dent, Pennsylvania Smelting Co.; T. M. Girdler, president, Jones arid Laughlin Steel Corp.; S. A. Gray­son, president, Jessop Steel Co.; J. O. Handy, director of special in­vestigations, Pittsburgh Testing Laboratory; C. W. Iieppenstall,
for 1928-29 Leading to 1 Knife Co.; Charles R. Hook, viccj president, American Rolling Mill
j ships in Coal are Established
Changed This Yea> ,
Other Changes in White. Bool; 
Notable to Both Old'and 
New Students.
There were a number of im­
portant changes made in the regu­
lations of the college this' year, 
especially in regard to eligibility. 
For the benefit of the upper class­men, who do not read the White Book, the Tartan is giving a list of the changes. Every plebe should read this Book from Gover to cover as it contains the regulations of all undergraduate students and it is necessary that these rules be strictly observed.The changes in regard to eligi­bility arc as follows:
“Students declared ineligible, who later become eligible, shall not resume participation until they and the manager have received a clear­ance letter from the Dean of Men or Dean of Women.| "A1*student who is ineligible at beginning of the second, scmcs-
From October 18 through De-vj Award- for the twenty-third Inter-Ii. A. Degree
FRATERNITY RUSHING
DATES ARE NOT SET
EXTRA!
This ad is worth one dollar to any student renting a Tuxedo Suit from us
COMPLETE LINE OF ACCESSORIES
Acl must be presented
Whittington Dress Suit Co.
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE 
Day Phone 2604 Night Phone Lafayette 4791-R
According to the Interfraternity Council fraternity, rushing regula­tions for the coming year will re­main similar to those of last year.Freshmen may be rushed, bid and pledged only on the dates which will be arranged by the Interfra­ternity Council. During rushing freshmen must leave the fraternity houses before 9 o’clock, at night.Before the rushing period no new j registrant may attend functions on or off the campus with a fraternity member excepting those for orient tation of freshmen; nor may anyfreshman_visit a fraternity houseduring the period before rushing. .A non-partisan person will explain rushing regulations to freshmen preceding rushing; the position of fraternities on the Carnegie Cam­pus will also be explained.
ALL CARNEGIE FOOTBALL MEN
WEAR
\PURE WOOL MACKINAWS
ALBERT G. RALL
Special Representative 
104 Law and Finance Bldg-. Atlantic 8947
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Watch for Campus Displays
EMPLOYMENT BUREAU 
WANTS REPORTS
ON SUMMER JOBS
The Bureau of Recommenda­tions is desirous of completing its 
summer employment records and would like those having secured jobs through the Bureau to advise Mr. B. J. Kristof within the next week if possible. This information will be helpful in the (ncxt vaca­tion placement.
The following changes have been made in the Bureau. The person­nel is as follows: J. D. Beatty,
Secretary in charge of the Bureau; Miss Farmcrie and Miss Henne- man, Secretaries to Mr. Beatty; D. 1\ Hoover, Assistant Secretary in charge of employment; Miss Trim­ble, Secretary to Mr. Hoover, also 
m charge of women's full time em­ployment; Miss Merrill, in charge of part-time employment (men and women); Mr. Kristof, in charge of night school employment, and Mrs. Wagner, in charge of alumni records.
Mr. Hoover was formerly of the Educational Department of the 
Westinghouse Electric and Manu­facturing Company.
cember 9 the twenty-seventh Inter­
national Art Exhibition at Carnegie 
Institute, for which groups of pic­
tures representing fourteen Euro­
pean nations as well as the works.' 
of American artists will be assem­
bled, will be on display. This 
annual exhibition is of outstanding 
importance not only to the Pitts­
burgh public but to the entire art 
world. The selection of five such well-known American artists, Ern­est Lawson, Rockwell Kent, Jonas Lie, Robert Spencer ancl Mahonri Young, as the American Commit­tee of Selection for the Exhibition indicates the type of standards maintained by the .Exhibition. The prizes offered arc consequently the most coveted in the art world and the competitors are considered the most honored artists of their coun­
tries.The widespread interest which the Exhibition creates is manifested when such nations as England, France, Italy, Germany, Russia, Spain, Belgium, Holland, Norway, Sweden, Austria, Poland, Czecho­slovakia, and Switzerland send a total of about 275 paintings. The United States this year will be represented by about 130 paintings. Not only is the exhibition inter­national in its organization, but in its various schools and tendencies with which each nation is rep­resented. According to the prac­tice of the last six years,j each national group will be hung in separate galleries, thus giving to the visitors the opportunity to see and to study the particular char­acteristic's of each nation as dis­closed by its art.The paintings chosen by the American Committee of Selection will be included in the exhibition with those directly invited by the Institute. All the members of this committee are well-known in Pitts­burgh through paintings which they have exhibited in various Inter­nationals.Ernest Lawson, who. is one of America’s most distinguished land­scape painters, was born in Los Angeles in 1873. He first studied in Kansas City, then at the Artists’ League in New York, and still later in Paris. Since his return to this country in the '90's, lie has maintained a studio in New York City. The National Acadcmy of Design elected him an Associate in 1908 and an Academician in 1917. He has Avon practically all the important medal? and awards offered in this country and lie is represented in many permanent col­lections. He has exhibited in Car­negie Internationals for many years and in the twentieth International was awarded first prize for his painting, ‘‘Vanishing Mists.” This picture, which is considered by many one of the finest landscape's painted by’ American artists, was purchased by the Institute for the permanent collection. In the sum­mer of 1925 there was a special exhibition of about 40 canvases by Mr. Lawson.Rockwell Kent is recognized as one of America’s most original painters. He is well-known as an illustrator and has achieved dis­tinction in the - field of literature as well as art. a He was born at Tarrytown, New'York, in 1882, and educated at the Horace Mann School. He studied architecture for a time at 'Columbia University. In painting he was a pupil of such masters as Chase, Thayer, Henri, and Hayes Miller.Mr. Kent has written and illus­trated “Wilderness,” which is a report of his adventures with his own son during a winter when they stayed on Fox Island, Alaska. It is a unique contribution to Amer­ican literature. He has also writ­ten. “Voyaging,’’ an account of his visit to Tierra del Fuego in a 26-foot boat.
Mr. Kent had a group of five paintings iy last year’s Interna­tional, one of these "Annie Mc- Ginley” was purchased by the In­stitute for its permanent collection. He was a member of the Jury of
national.Robert Spencer was born at Harvard, Neb., in' 1879? but .has lived for many years at New Hope, Bucks County, Pa. He studied at the National Academy of Design and the New York School of Ap­plied Art, and under William Chase and Robert Henri. He was elected an Associate of the National Acad­emy and an Academician in 1920. He has won numerous awards in 
this country.In the nineteenth International at Carnegie Institute, his painting, “White Mill” was given Honorable Mention and was later purchased by the Pittsburgh Athletic Asso­ciation. In 1926, at the twenty-fifth International, he was awarded by the Carnegie Institute fori its permanent collection.Jonas Lie >was born in Norway in 18S0. As. a boy he lived in Paris with his uncle of the same name, Norway’s greatest writer of sea stories. After his father died he came to this country with his mother, who was an American. He received his education at the 
School of the Society of Ethical Culture in New York City where his gift for painting was discovered and developed. He studied later at the Academy of Design of the Art Students’ League. He was made an Associate of the National Academy in 1912 and an Acad­
emician in 1925.One of his paintings, “Fishing Boats at Sunrise,” is owned by the- Carnegie. Institute. It is con­sidered one of his most original and beautiful achievements. His paintings of little fishing boats, arc perhaps! the most personal vein in Air. Lie’s art, and they arc all .exceedingly interesting; strong in technique, glowing i i color, orig­inal in composition and showing 
a quiet, poetic and romantic feel­ing. He is represented in prac­tically air the important museums in this country.Mahonri Young, who is probably .better known as a sculptor - and etcher than as a painter, is a grandson of Brigham Young. He was born in Salt Lake City i.i 1877. He studied art at the Julien Academy in Paris. He was elected an Associate of the National Acad­emy in 1912 and an Academician in 1923.As a sculptor, Mr. Young is interested in familiar subjects of labor. A noteworthy . achievment of his is the Sea Gull monument in Salt Lake City. He carries the strength of his sculpture into his painting. The subjects of his canvas work are mostly picturesque scenes from the Navajo* country. He had paintings in the twenty- third and twenty-ijurth Interna­tionals; he lives at Leonia, N. J.This year, as in 1927, about a third of the number of artists formerly invited to send pictures, ha\ •- been asked • to submit their works. Each artist has' been re­quested to send from three to . five pictures. In this way one may study the development and per­sonality of the artists represented in the exhibition.The prizes are ^awarded by a jury which meets September 18. The four distinguished artists who .compose’* the jury arc Colin Gill of London, England; Auto Carte of Brussels, Belgium, Ernest Law­son and Rockwell Kent. The lat­ter two artists also represent the United, States., Homer Saint- Gaudens, Director of Fine Arts at Carnegie Institute, will preside at the meeting and will vote in case of a tie.In the twenty-six Internationals that have been held in Carnegie Institute since 1896, First Prize has been won fourteen times by American artists, five times by English painters, five, times by French, and once by an Italian artist. /The First Prize carries with it an award of $1,500, the Second Prize is' $1,000, the Third Prize $500, the First' Honorable Mention $300, and, in addition, a prize of $300 is offered by the Garden Club of Allegheny County for the best painting of a garden or of flowers.
Work Continues Program 
Fourteen Problems 
Studied Here
of
In order to make investigations in connection with a program ’ of fourteen research studies in coal mining and metallurgy which will be carried on during the year of 1928-1929 under the joint auspices of Carnegie Tcch, the U. S. Bu­reau of Mines, and two advisory boards of mining and metallurgical engineers and executives, eleven college graduates have been ap­pointed to Research Fellowships, and in' addition, a research en­gineer, an assistant research en­gineer, and an analyst have been 
engaged.
The new program is similar in scope to those of the past few years that have been conduced under the same auspices. The re­search fellows, while carrying out | their investigations, will be can­didates for the degree of master of science to be awarded by the Institute of Technology in June, 1929. The reports of the studies will probably be published as in the past.
Appointees to Research Fellow­ships arc Julius R. Adams and Kenneth Metcalfe, Rose Polytech­nic Institute; Kenneth M. lrey, Monmouth College; John E. Jacobs and Iicnry Seaman, Carnegie In­stitute of Technology; Malcolm F. Jtidl/ins, University of Washington; Walter O. Kr.ebs, Yale University; W. E. Marshall, Georgia Institute of Technology; Egbert Shelter, Ohio University; James A. Younk- ins, Penn State Collège, and Adam H. ITartswick, Penn State College. In addition, C. F. Christopher, re­search engineer; Frank Morris, analyst, and A. D. Meyer, assistant research engineer, will assist in making special studies in the pro­gram of research.
In addition, Dr. John Johnston, director of^ research and technology j of the United States Steel Cor- ( poration; C. A. Reinhardt, chief metallurgist of the Youngstown * Sheet and Tube Company; Dr. A. J. Unger, manager of the research bureau of the Carnegie Steel Com­pany, and Homer D: Williams, president of the Pittsburgh Steel Company, have been invited by
ter will remain ineligible for theentire semester, unless lie earns sufficient additional quality points' during the March re-examination period to make his first semester quality points total 144.” ’In regard to transfers "a student with less than 144 quality points transferring from one College to Co.; E. T. McCleary, president, another cannot become eligibleRepublic Iron and Steel Co.; W. E. * until lie has carried the work otMoore, consulting engineer, Pitts-1 the new College in good standingburgh Electric Furnace Corp.; C. for two full .semesters,” instead otF. W. Rys, assistant to president, one as was the previous rule. Carnegie Steel Co.; Isaac M. Scott, | A number of other rules refcr- prcsident, Wheeling Steel Corp.; S. ring to grades, absences, etc., haveG. Stafford, Vulcan Crucible Steel been changed although there areCo.; F. N. Speller, chief metal­lurgical engineer, National Tube Co.; Kenneth Seaver, general sales manager, Harbison-Walker Refrac­tories Co.; J. C. Williams, vice president, Weir ton Steel Co., and R. B. Zimmerman, assistant to vice president, American, Sheet and Tin Plate- Co.For the coming year, it is an­nounced, the advisory board has selected a program of five investi­gations in ferrous metallurgy to be made by Research F'cllows under the auspices of the Carnegie In­stitute of Technology and the Bu­reau of Mines. An advisory board of coal mine operators and en­gineers, which occupies a similar relationship to the Department of Mining- Engineering, has selected six problems in fuel chemistry for investigation by six college grad­uates ranked as Research Fellows for the coming year.
FIRST ASSEMBLY
(Continued from Page One) scmbly.15. Chapel.22. Separate Collctrc Assemblies. Eng. and Ind. Freshmen As­sembly.29. Chapel.
February:
5. No _ Assembly. .Examination Period.. 12. No Assembly. Registration for Second Semester.
radical changes, should be noted. The rule stating 'that a subject has to be repeated if the absences exceed thirty percent of the total number of hours in the subject, is not in effect this year. Examinations foo reijioval of en­trance conditions arc held only in June and September, instead of in January, June and August, as they were held last year.Although students receiving a grade of “F” have a year to re­move the condition, they arc urged to remove all “F” grades before the September registration since in many cases they will not be per-' hiitted to schedule a subsequent course in a subject in which they have an “F” grade.In regard to discipline for women, in the College of Fine Arts, - it the student cannot establish- her innocence of “cribbing” to the satisfaction of the Director, lie will allow her to elcct whether she prefers (a) to confess to the cor­rectness of the charge and to ac­cept the penalty imposed by the Director, the Dean of Women ancl the Chairman of the Discipline Committee, or (b) to have the matter referred to the Discipline Committee, who will act as a jury, hear the evidence and report its findings lo the Director,
Failure of Watts Gunn to qualify in the national amateur meet was a.' big surprise to the xrolfing world.
QUALITYSTUDENT PRICES
Daschbachs Restaurant and Dining Hall
3808 FORBES STREET
Paint — Hardware — Electric Supplies
Oakland Hardware Co.
Mayflower 0923 Iroquois Block
In New Haven, Connecticut, gas is used to heat an IS,000-pound galvanizing furnace.
CARNEGIE MEN AND | EXEMPTION APPLICATIONS
WOMEN EARN $85,464 j TO BE FILED
FOR PART-TIME WORK TOMORROW NOON [
In tlie annual-report of the Em­ployment Bureau the following in­teresting figures were brought out:There were a total of 3,104 part- time jobs covered by men students.These jobs earned their holders a total of $70,664.14. Two thousand two hundred and twelve jobs were 
held by women for a total of $14,- 
S00.18. The above figures are ex­clusive of summer earnings. This gives a total of $S5,464.32 from a total of'5,316 part-time jobs, or an ¡average of $16 a job. More com­plete figures from the employment department will be available at a j later date.
All new students desiring cards 
entitling them to exemption from 
plebe regulations should file appli­
cations with Mr. John Barr, Chair- 
man of Regulations for the Student 
Council, at the Student Council of- 
I ficc in Industries Building, on 
j Wednesday noon, September 26. 
Exemptions will be granted^ only 
i to those students who can fur- 
! niih evidence of having gone 
J through a similar probationary j period at some other college or I university.
identify the Lifetime pen by this white dot
A recent 
conclusively
them Sheafier's Lifetime0 writing tools are first in 
favor, lightest TOUCH response, yet a nib .fortified 
to produce 
pondence,

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1928.THE CARNEGIE TARTAN5
YEA VERILY—Mais Deo tempus fugits, as the rougher 
clement of the ancient Greeks, or perhaps it was the Latins, 
used 'to say, for behold!! Carnegie gridmen open their promis­
ing season on Saturday. It will be with Dyke Beede’s proteges 
that the sons of Skibo will do battle on the field of Ra'ycn High 
School at Youngstown, Ohio.
Casting all kidding to one side, we welcome the official 
opening of football season. A few games/ have been played here, 
there, and elsewhere, but the major aggregations have preferred 
Lo benefit by an additional week’s workout before engaging, even 
their supposedly soft preliminary opponents.
sK * * * * '* *
WESTMINSTER, CARNEGIE’S foe in the opener, is one 
of these supposedly soft teams, many students and alumni look 
forward to as already being in the bag and that with a top- 
heavy score. But coaches and men are in no such frame of 
mind. Westminster is in top form right now and undoubtedly 
their greatest ambition is to catch a cocky Tartan eleven by 
surprise and annex its highly desirable scalp. Small schools 
have a great habit of knocking off the big boys; witness Har­
vard’s downfall two seasons ago and the more recent defeat of 
West Virginia.
Dyke Beede, Westminster’s coach, is a Carnegie product, 
and understudy of “Wally” Steffen’s. He learned all the tricks 
and has drilled them into his squad. When Steffen’s system 
meets Steffen’s system there is always a good battle, one that 
always attracts a large crowd.
We think that Carnegie should take over the Titans on 
Saturday with ease, but it will undoubtedly be'a real game, and 
the Tartans’ first public appearance. Certainly every student 
able to afford the $1.50 should go down on the special train to 
see this game. To the others, we might suggest the bumming 
route, which is usually made easier if one is adorned properly; 
it will probably take some three hours.
¡Women’s Athletic Associa- S'S$
D ,O i i ni n n ^ie Womcn's Dormitory Co
I turn Holds rlay Day rroffram <*• After supper songs were^j i around the fire and Inter the <
for Inrnminor Frp^iiman!a^ournct^ to Linden Haii fo1UI lUlUMlllK 1 1 Co 11 111d 11 mass mccling at which the do
tory rules were expounded 
them.Steak and Com Roast Given At the assembly, held in 
By Dormitory Council Little Theater of the l-ine .„ ,, ci Building at 11 o’clock in the ni>rollows oports j„g a\\ t|ie Freshmen were
lightened as to the nature an purpose of the various women 
organizations on the campus, th addresses being given by the pres dents of the organizations, as fo 
lows: Evelyn Goldcnson of thCarnegie Guild, Jeanette Folmar c 
the Y. \Y. C. A., Florence of th Women's Activities Point System, Harriet Hanna of the Glee Club, and Dorothy Roy of the Women’s 
Athletic Association.
Left to right, front row—O. T. Carlson, L. Flanagan, A. G. Sw eet, J. Stauffer, H. Eyth, G. J. Letzelter, G. J. Moorhead, G. Kennedy, J. K. Kerr, H. C. Shaughency, T. Flanagan, J. F. Suehr.Second row—W. S. Kucsman, T. F. Roscnzweig, J. Morbito, J. B. Helmbold, C. G. Krark, J. Karcis, H. Harpstcr (captain), W. F. Mid-dlet.on, .TL G. Miller, J. F. Traa, J. L. Carney, E. T. Dolan, R. H. Buckley.Bock row—R. N. Waddell, assistant coach; Dr. William L. Marks, assistant coach; J. Drcshar, G. Booth, S. Miclzinger, R. A. Schmidt,L. Schnupp, Walter P. Steffen, head coach; J. M. Highbergcr, R. Ne therland, A. Yerina, M. S. Hilty, D. J. Lovewell, B. Munhall, trainer.
PLEBES OPEN HEAVY ' 
SEASON SATURDAY:
Training Camp Proves Big Benefit in Shaping Up Plebe Squad
Everybody’s watching the Var­sity, but the Plcbcs also have their opener this Saturday. Journeying to Beatty they tackle St. Vincents’ eleven for a starter. Usually con­sidered a snap, the St. Vincents’' have, a surprise in store for sport circles this year. They have gath­ered a squad which will be a tough one to crack, even, for the Plaid freshmen. This will be a difficult test 'for the Plebes, but with the propping they will get from the coaches during the balance of the week, they are expected to give an excellent showing against this club.Starting very inauspiciously, but 
rapidly gathering momentum, the
Freshman cross country can­didates and managers report at the Gym Wednesday afternoon at 4:30. .No experience neces­
sary.
VACATIONS
[Halferty Calls For
Cross-Country
I Initial Meet With Geneva on Fri­
day, Oct. 5, Opens Difficult 
Season
AS USUAL the coaches are somewhat backward as to de­
ciding the lineup. However ye editor has fixed up a graphic 
lineup below which should fill the bill. For once in his life 
"Wally” has abundance of back field material and a line which 
borders close onto the two hundred mark. Karcis will probably 
tramp all over them after Schnupp knocks them down, while 
Eyth will run them to a shadow. It is hard to rate the players 
with nearly two first class teams on the field. There' will un­
doubtedly be numerous substitutions throughout every game and
it wouldn’t surprise us to sec a whole new backficld run in oc- j Plcbcs, ''through the efforts of
casionally. Knute Rockne calls us the dark horse of the east, Coaches.Allison and Irwin, are de-while Perry warns our opponents to beware and take care, vcloping into a first class grid ag-
Needless to add, we are going to have, a winner, the best bet|«jX'Stth a s,“
Carnegie lias ever been able to collect, without doubt one ol the T^c jinc -1S shaping up very well 
best.elevens in the country. with plenty of beef and speed. Thebackfield, although light, has speed, ability and the true Carnegie cour­age. Considering that the Varsity has one of the best teams in the history of "the school, the Plcbcs
WE SYMPATHIkE with Saul Mielzner. It sure is a tough 
break which keeps a senior from holding down the pivot posi­
tion on a team which will probably make Carnegie grid history. 
We hope no more men get sick or injured; no team can losè 
many men of such caliber and not suffer.
* * * * * * *
THE FRESHMEN—Oh, yes; some twenty aspirants are 
bHmr put through their paces by Coaches Erwin andt Allison1. 
THey arc a good looking bunch, heavier than ordinary and fast.
It will take a few games before the cmbryonic varsity material
can be picked out. From practice we rather like the looks of 
Armcntrout at end and McCurdy at quarter.
* * * * ' * * *
HALFERTY’S hill-and-dalers will soon be cluttering up 
Schenley Park when they begin their grind in a few days. The 
varsity boys are already at it and the freshmen candidates are 
requested to report Wednesday at the gym at four-thirty. If 
you can’t run, there’s no one to stop your winning a letter via 
the managership route. Report same time and place.
A visitor from Mars arriving in midsummer would see headlines in the New York papers: “ThreeDie in Heat,” “Woman Killed in Crush by Crowds Fleeing from City Heat Wave.” But he would be told that the “most important” people were out of town on their vacations.Our philosophy of vacations is like our philosophy of work. It is not a reasoned theory so much as a grotesque collection of habits based upon class power and per­petuated by inertia. When a sub­way guard getting twenty-four dol­lars a week'for forty-eight hours of work fifty-two weeks a year is allowed one week's vacation, while a stockholder of the transit com­pany spends the summer in Que­bec, the arrangement excites no comment. As Bernard Shaw point cdout long ago, it takes a fresh eye and an alert mind to detect' the established fraud in economic practices;The ordinary‘ jiian is insensible to the fraud just as lie is insen- . - . r, ... r . . . . siblc* to the taste of water, which;have made cred.tt.blc showings m bclng constantly in contact will, l.isall scrimmages with them up to the present. While not being able to score on them, they have shown the fighting heart which is a true 
index to the ability of a football player.Kozicki, Stauffer, Fletcher, Du- canis, Armebtrout, Perch and YVid- mer have been showing well on 
the line. These boys arc heavy ( and for the most part experienced.I In the. backficld McCurdy, Ewing,' Archer and Ziegler have been showing their paces to advantage, 
and they are certainly fast paces. McCurdy has repeatedly shown his punting ability under conditions that would cause a great many men to fumble or to kick inaccu­rately. He is also a clever passer and runner and looks like the 
Piebes best bet as a triple threat man. It has been difficult lo get a line on some of the men as' yet, but it is hoped they will prove helpful additions to a fast, scrappy
YOU KKOW, even an amateur can name the status of any 
male student roving unrestrained about this campus. The fresh­
men have that open, innocent, awe struck air, usually notice­
able in children when they see their first choo-choo train. The 1MJ1J1U1 uuullll 
sophomores are easy; they invariably go strutting hither and teamU6M932.
thither with the weight of the successful running of the school j ------------:---------
resting noticeably, but lightly, on their broad, competent shotil-1 The lowest score for 36 holes in
ders. Juniors have that harassed woe begone look usually i ?.• regularly supervised and rccog- 
prevalent among engineers after an encounter with the Math. !Sc“dgc^vi‘n0^ 
department while the seniors are unmistakable with their hope- j wh0 turned in a card of 133 at
less, despairing, forlorn look. Joy in squeezing through three Nashville, Tenn., last year, 
years is usually submerged in the worry of what regard the 
big,; dark, cruel world has in store for their genius.
SAY PLEBE! Writing athletics for the Tartan is very in­
teresting and remunerative work—-how about it? Report any 
noon at the tri-publications office.
Horseshoe pitching is said to be in need of a Judge Landis. “Ring­ers” are being used.
Harvard University may increase its stadium seating capacity 1,000 to 1,500 for football games.
CARNEGIE
Flnnnngnn (189)
Karcis (220)
T. Flannagan (173)
Harpstcr (158)
Higlibcrgcr (196)Schnupp (210)Lovewell (201)Sweet (159)
*
llielzapfcl
WESTMINSTER
mucous membrane, seems to have no taste at ' all. The villainous moral conditions on which our so­cial system is based are necessarily in constant contact with our moral mucous membrane, and so we lose our sense of their omnipresent meanness and dishonor.The accepted practice of our in­dustrial system is to give brief Vacations or no vacations to man­ual _ workers, longer vacations to clerical workers, and still longer to executives, owners, and profession­als. The Department of Labor of the State of New York discovered by investigating 1,500 factories that 91 per cent of the plants gave va­cations to their office workers, 68 per cent to their foremen, and only 18 per cent to their production workers. The lucky 18 per cent of production workers usually received one week’s vacation, while the cler­ical workers received two.Government agencies, and large corporations- tend to be more gen­erous in their vacation policies for. manual workers than small con­cerns. Even the scrubwomen hired by the State of New York get a full month's vacation with pay. The Metropolitan Life Insurance Company has worked out in its home office a plan for vacations based upon length of service which is more or less tyoical of manylarge corporations. The company gives two weeks for clerical work­ers the first year of service, fifteen days after five years’ service, sev­enteen days after ten years’ service, and twenty days after fifteen years’ service. But the manual workers of this company, as of many oth­ers, are given only a single week of vacation after many years of'service.Behind this corporate and com­munity practice in granting vaca­tions is a vaguely defined philoso­phy. Men and women who work with their brains are sensitive,fine-strung, in constant need of re­plenishing burned-out energy; men and women who work primarilywith their hands are stolid, ox-like, in need of a thick beefsteak and a sound sleep to prepare them ade­quately for the next day’s work.This traditional theory of the ef­fects of fatigue on industrial classes has no_ more truth in it than the .superstitions once held by histori­ans concerning the fine blood and biological gentility of the aristoc­racy. Every one who works needs a vacation, and the need is greatest among those who work the hardest. A ditch-digger gets tired. Fatigue will destroy his mind and body just as surely as it will destroy the mind and body of a bank presi­dent. True, the bank president needs a somewhat more alert mind for examining , mortgages, shaking hands cordially, and remembering first names. But this need of extra alertness in the professional and business classe- is already provided for by shorter hours of labor. When August comes, the bank president takes a vacation and the ditch-digger does not, because the bank president has the power to take it and the ditch-digger has not.That is all there is to our theory of vacations. That and habit. For those who have the power to take vacations there are special philoso­phies and diversions ranging all the way from deep breathing to the perusal of Thoreau. For the manual workers who have not the power to win this extra leisure, there are Sundays—and Coney Is land.—Nation.
With the advent of another school year, student interest is turning to athletics. Football oc­cupies the minds of many, but there are a goodly number who 
maintain a lively interest in the work of Tech’s cross country team. 
Followers of this sport will find much of interest in this season’s program as outlined by Coach Hal­ferty, Manager Fahnestock and Capt. Campbell.
Should all the available letter men report, Carnegie will some high class runners. The strength of the squad can nots known until after the first prac­tice, which will be called as soon a:> school opens. Four or five letter men are expectcd back as well as several runners from last year's Plebe team. The schedule shows opponents who will provide 
plenty of competition for the Plaid nien as well as thrills for the spec­tators:SCHEDULEOctober 5, Geneva—Here.October 13, Thiel—Here.October 20, Open.November 3, VVesminster—There.November 10, Open.
November 17, Grove City—Here.For the Plcbcs, Manager McNeil ris now preparing a schedule that should aid in preparing the ’32 men 
for next year’s varsity. An invita­tion is extended to all Plebes who run, think they can run, or would like to run, to come out for this 
team. Cross country work pro­vides excellent exercise for the in­dividual while he is doing some­thing for the school. Men who made only a mediocre showing at high school, or who have never run at all often develop into first
Freshman football managers. Apply at the field quarters, base­
ment of M. M. building, any afternoon.
On Saturday afternoon, from 2 j to 5 o’clock, the Women’s Ath­letic Association held a play-day for Freshmen girls. All the in- i coming girls of Carnegie were in-I
vited. to attend and participate in the various athletic activities, re­gardless of their past experience or | ability in athletics. Among the events scheduled in the gymnasium were foul shooting (basketball), ten-pin relay races and vol­leyball. An enthusiastic game of baseball was played on the cut. Archery proved especially popular among the new girls. A number of upper classmen also attended and took part in the events, liclp- 1 ing the Freshmen to become ac­quainted with each other. At the close of the afternoon’s program, which all proclaimed a grand suc­cess, .the girls indulged in a feast of fresh roasted peanuts provided by the W. A. A. Board.
Members of the athletic board j took charge of the play-day pro­
gram and were assisted by a group of Sophomores and Juniors.
From 5:30 till dark the dormi-
class runners through the proper training and instruction such as they can receive here.Candidates for the positions of Plebe and Varsity managers are also , urged to answer the first call when it is issued. The man wish­ing to earn a "C” but lacking the physical requirements can do no better than work for a manager­
ship. Aside from the pleasant con­tacts, associations and knowledge to be gained he too may realize he is helping his Alma Mater.
Tuxedo and Full 
Dress Suits to 
Hire
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES
Ed. Schwerin
MEN’S TAILOR 
335 FIFTH AVENUE 
606 State Theater Bldg.
Compliments of
THE COLLEGE SHOP
4609 FORBES STREET (Near Craig)
Togs For the College Man
Also
Full Line of Plebe Equipment
THE STUDENT BOOK SHOP
SKIBO INN
USED TEXT BOOKS, T-SQUARES, DRAWING 
SETS AND OTHER SCHOOL EQUIPMENT
OPEN DAY AND NIGHT
HOURS: 11:30-1:30, 4:30-6:00, 7:00-9:00.We Buy and Sell
OLD GOLD bats 1000%
as Hornsby takes 
the UMindfold cigare
&$gbrs H$rnsby ... capable 
manager of the Boston Braves 
. . . captain of the 1927 New 
York Giants , = . manager of 
the 1926 St. Louis Cardinals, 
who won the World’s Series.
“They say ‘there’s not a cough in a carload’ of 
FAC ELACGD
“But I can tell you there’s a home-run hit in 
every cool mouthful.
“For no other cigarette, of the four leading 
brands in the blindfold test, could compare with 
D FAC ELACG for pure pleasure to taste, tongue 
and throat.”
Mr. H$rnsby was asked to smoke 
each of the four leading brands, clear­
ing his taste with coffee between 
•mokes. Only one question was asked 
..." Which one do you like best? ’ ’
What gives OLD GOLD
this winning charm?
Here is the answer, in three 
words...heart-leaf tobacco. No 
coarse,heavy top-leaves of the 
tobacco plant...for they irri­
tate the throat. No withered 
ground-leaves...for they are 
lacking in aroma. Only the 
cool and fragrant heart-leaves 
. .. golden ripe . . . can give 
Old Golds their honey-like 
smoothness. That's why you 
can tell them in the dark.
Made from the heart-leave 
of the tobacco plant
SMOOTHER AND BETTER-“NOT A GOUGH IN A CARLOAD

---------------------------------------------------

PHUNB MAYFLOWER 26C0 
ubliahcd once every week during the 
wo year by undergraduates of Carnettie 
Ituto of Technology. Entered In tho 
»burgh Pont Office an second-clans mutter.
THE STAFF
tor-in-Chicf Stewart C. Ralstonid Editor___Edw. E. McDonaldlincss Manager__James H. Seibert
vianaging Editor.—__William McNcillMews Editor_______i_Ruth BramsonWomen’s Editor-....-»„.Dorothy RoyAthletic Editor-....Thomas W. LippertAlumni Editor____Charles R. Nelson
ASSOCIATE EDITORS 
Helen Reed Eugene JaremaHelen Booth Hyman J. LevinsonHelen Whitehill Katherine O’Donnell 
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
Nathan Miller Ina HansellSara E. Wonders Joe B. PattersonAlex M. Fisher 
JUNIOR EDITORS 
Uoscmary Barr Wilfrid H. Worland lacob Carpe Henry L. Bunker, Jr. Catherine Boyd
THINK IT OVER
THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
Forlorn Figures
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1928.
REPORTERS
J. Boyle Eckels KlineH. Marisol f M. Wilson J. Shusset L. Myers H. Barr W Hay J. Eason N. Meixner
D. K. Tomer L. M. BaughE. Schlesinger J. H. McAteer C. F. Ackenheil A, F. Phillips E. J. Dattisman IW\ H. Merrin A. G. AllenW. V. Troutman H. R. Weitzel
BUSINESS DEPARTMENT
/\dvertising Mgr-----Robert H. WehrleAssistants__________David H. GcnterWillis M. CrosbyCirculation Mgrs___Michael MalinichCarl Blass
Office—Room 12, Industries Building. Of­
fice Hours—Monday to Thursdays, 12:30, 
1:20, Paper made up Friday, 12:30-G:00.
To insure publication on the succeeding 
Tuesday, news items must bo in the student 
post oflicb or Tartan Office before 4:30 
Thursday.
After offico hours, call—
Editor..............- ____________Onkmont 667-W_...... -Mnyflnwpr 8821
Nilo Editor________________i-.....Atlantic 1300
...Schenley 2389
"We are the greatest people on \ 
earth. Our government is the best! j 
In religious belief and practice we 
(the Protestants) are exactly right, 
and we arc also the best fighters in the world. As a people we are j the wisest, politically the most | free, and socially the most dcvcl- , 
ope<h Other nations may fail and fall; "we are safe. Our history is j a narrative of the triumph of i righteousness among the people, j We see these forces working j through every generation of our glorious past. Our future growth ¦ 
and success are as certain as the' rules of mathematics. Providence i I is always on our side. The only I I war we Americans ever lost was when one-third of us was defeated j by the other two-thirds. We have I been divinely selected in order to | j save and purify the world through ’ our- example. If other nations will i | only accept our religious and polit-; j ical principles, and our general at­titude toward life, they soon will • be, no doubt, as happy and pros­perous as we.”Thus America’s own idea of themselves is humorously summar­ized in the American Journal of Sociology. Siegfried in his, America Comes of Age, also comments upon America’s cherished ideals."This self-satisfied and ingenuous belief in the inferiority of the rest of the world does not arise. from any ill will. The Americans are a kindly people, but they cannot understand why others do not adopt their way of thinking and acting, with enthusiasm and grati­tude. The superiority of their civil­ization seems so obvious to them that to question it seems as futile as denying, the existence of the sun.”
"To an American child an Italian is a pedlar, a Greek a bootblack or cheap restaurant-keeper, and a Frenchman is a low-class barber. It never occurs to him that other Italians and Frenchmen exist in France and Italy who are gentle­men and much more cultured than lie is himself.”“They regard the people of the Old World as immoral and degen­erate, igno’rant of the most elemen­tary rules of hygiene, dominated by a fanatic -priesthood, perpetually menaced by anarchy and revolution, likely to die of hunger—this sounds like an exaggeration, but it is per­fectly true!”“The immigrant who stammers broken English, lor possibly does not speak it at all,' and is unable to break away from his own pe­culiar habits, naturally thinks and feels different. lie is bound to be regarded with suspicion by the “100 percenter” who is certain of his heredity and proud of his standard of living—so sure, indeed, of his moral superiority that he dares, according to Imperial Wizard Evans, ‘look God straight in the face.’ As assimilation gradually takes place, the distance between the two types is reduced, but any peculiarity on the part of the new­comer is unconsciously judged by the American as a sign of in­feriority.” ¦ '“Without generalizing one may say that when you notice a spark­ling eye or a nimble mind it is often in an Italian, a Jew, or a Russian. Like uncut jewels, they had come from Europe with their traditions of brilliant civilizations, which they were asked to abandon at one fell swoop. Many, especially among the intellectuals, deliberately refused.”
Tfte- o/:
tWP” c/í?ss /¿i ¿rsffÆ <$c/?oo/ 
A? cce/comec/
6" .
BOOK REVIEW
Business Manager..— ...............Schenley 9211
Advertising Manager.. -—»...Schenley 9082
WELCOME
Phi Beta Kappa Studies Relation
Between College Life and Future Success
To the Members of the Class of 1932:
1 appreciate the opportunity 
which has been granted me by the editors of the CARNEGIE TAR­TAN to address a word of wcl- j come to you and to offer you my hearty good wishes' for a success­ful year here. You will find, I am lure, a friendly atmosphere on our ;ampus. If you should find dif­ficulties in your work your instruc- lors will be very glad lo help you. Make an effort to ' become ac- quainted with them. We of the faculty feel that your success is our success and that the reputa­tion of Carnegie grows in propor* lion to what iis students accomp­lish. Please feel free to come to see me at any time you may wish In discuss your problems with me.Very sincerely yours, 
THOMAS S. BAKER
1928-29
During the coming nine months another school year at Carnegie will become tradition. To the new 
Plebes, c start will be made toward their immediate goal, which now wppears as but a distant and hoped- for graduation. Sophomores will learn that the hardest road does not yet lie behind and that Car­negie’s curriculum involves more than the mechanical schedule-fol­lowing of the first year. Juniors Will experience a feeling that their nfforts are tending to converge ioward a definite point and that 
satisfaction can be obtained from t work well done. To the Scnibrs vi.ll at last come the realization if the dreams of . four years ago— . college degree, and finally a place n the every-day arrangement of .ife.
The new year shows promise of being great in Carnegie's history, and as it is important to the school, so will it be significant to :he student body. Advancement in •hi arts and sciences around Which Institute was founded, achieve- £nt in academic interests, a vic- rious season in athletics—all will aye some indelible stamp on Car- cgie men and women. And mem- )ers of all classes, as the year ;omes to a close next June, will ense the passing of another year f importance to themselves and i Carnegie.
THE TARTAN
Precedent suggests that here me mention be made of the poli- .» and outline _ to be followed by Che Tartan in its twenty-third vol- ame.Few other than ¿light mechanical changes in style of makeup will be apparent. The first few issues ua.y necessarily be of a less con- enient form, but the - paper will bon resume its familiar eight-page, x column size that proved most jpular last years. tThe added fea- res which have been described ¦ewliere, it is hoped, will make ivcn more attractive. An ear- ?t effort will be made to im- )ve the material of all pagjEs ai a literary viewpoint, and the ors wall endeavor to reserve the • will endeavor to reserve the Drial page for copy of particu- merit, though the editorials selves will probably leave to be desired if so consid-
0 Tartan will be an active im for the presentation of nt and administration views on ;ts of importance to the1 and the student body. It .•cry definitely advocate such is reform measures as school >n revision, and will do allpower to arouse proper in- in student government. The n will endeavor to maintain '.cals of worth-while Carnegie ons and to support those us activities which have dcm- ¦ted their value by years of 1 service to the Institute.
To attempt to unclose highly variable human nature in statistical formulae, in order to draw there­from rigid mathematical deductions, is doubtless a hazardous undertak­ing. But, since almost everyone is 
accustomed to express himself on the matter of this title without re­gard for any data, it should not be thought too represhensible to of­fer an opinion that is supported by objective evidence.There has long been a striking paradox to explain .in this country, if we compare the public’s attitude toward college attendance with tlie opinions most often expressed on the value of a high college record. Our young men and our young women, both the fit and the unfit, are obsessed by the desire for a college degree. The rush into our universities threatens to deplete some -very useful occupations, and, if it goes on increasing) there will soon be no “hewbrs of wood” with­out an engineering diploma, and even the “drawers of water” will have at least a B. S. in home economics.
Ojue might well think, then, that a good record in college or univer­sity would be considered extremely valuable. But here is the paradox. In the opinions most frequently voiced, the public’s contempt for high (scholastic marks, as a measure of inter success, would seem almost as great as its desire to take a col­lege course.The satiric editor, who points to some successful man with a poor college record, or who aims a few shafts at the college graduate arm­
ed only with his diploma cum laude, is a mere dispenser of orthodox public gospel. John’s father almost invariably applauds such attacks, even while cheerfully paying the monthly deficit in his son’s college allowance; just as Mary’s mother will likely sigh acceptance of the bitterest diatribes against the effec­tiveness of our educational system, when she finds them published in her home journal by some fretful schoolman, who, despairing of the long, monotonous pull up the- un­royal road of sound learning, seeks to attract attention by kicking over the traces. Certainly the general public grasps eagerly at the idea 
that both genius and practical abili­ty are refractory under college discipline, and fail to make good in scholastic distinction. A literary figure, without a deplorable college record in his past, labors under a severe handicap; the reviewer has nothing interesting to say about his life. And the definition of a self- made business man seems to ex­clude the aid of the college pro­
fessor.
The attitude in college circles is not notably different. The stu­dent’s traditional motto is, “Do not allow your studies to interfere with your education”; and from the childish freshman, at his first “mixer,” to the still more childish “Old Grad,” at the home-coming fraternity reunion, they all talk wbrshipfully of College Life, .al­though what is meant exactly by College Life, and how different it is from other life, when separated from its intellectual side, or, if it were different why it should be valuable, are matters so vague that there are no serious treatises on this subject; and, by common con­sent, the mysterious realm of Col­lege life is left as the province of the popular novelist, a sort of American Montmartre in which he may amaze or scandalize at will the credulous bourgeois. Appar­ently it is a world where human beings may do anything except their regular work in a creditable 
way.The whole subject would seem to deserve a more thorough inves­tigation of the facts. Is it really true that, when a, man has excelled most of his fellows for four years in his college course, we can not argue that he will most probably continue to excel them in later life? Or arc the examples of fail­ure to evcell later, and the other cases where men with poor college r.cords have achieved striking suc­cess in after life, only the rare exceptions to a general rule, the more widely exploited because they
-are exceptions?
• Some progress has been made in partial investigations. Neither in­telligence : tests nor common-sense oLnervations have shown any men­tal relapse or tcndciicy to go into reverse intellectual gear between the ages of seventeen and twenty- one. On the contrary, so long as th: human machine remains on the' educational highway, from kinder- | garten to professional graduation,I every test shows that it drives for­ward with a speed and reliability strikingly in accord with its origi­nal horse-puwer.: Eighty; per -elit of the upper fourth in high school marks remain in the upper half during their college careers, and eighty per cent of the lower fourth in high school fail lo rise above I mediocre scholarshl . in college., The idea that a boy loafs in his academic course because it is theo­retic, and wakes up in his practical professional training has been prov­en fallacious.
Finally, some attempts have been made to^ show that a correspond­ing relation in eminence exists be­tween college career’s and success in life. But no one seems to have published the results of any study sufficiently rigorous and extensive to furnish an argument that should be conclusive. Several years ago it fell to’ the lot of the writer to take part in an investigation of this nature, which would seem to offer abundant evidence, and in which the element of success was largely decided by a non-academic jury.
This study was made of the rec­ords of the alumni of one of our large universities. It included all the graduates of the bachelor’s course for a period of forty-five years. The most recent class studied had gone out fifteen yeaars before, so that practicaally all of its members had had time to find their position in life.
The plan adopted made two things necessary: the determination, first, of the average scholastic mark in college of all of these alumni; and second, an inquiry in­to and as exact an estimate as possible of their success after leav­ing college. The total number of persons included was somewhat over 1.800.11 should be said that two yeans were taken for this work, that it w-j aided by fairly complete alumni records, and that numerous gradu­ates, as well as manv others were asked by letter to give their frank opinion on the careers in life of the various members of these clajses. The committee made no attempt to define success, leaving this to the judgment of thosi asked to co-operate.Presumably, since the purpose of th investigation was usually known, there'"may have been an incentive to lay_ stress on intellectual and professional achievement and emi­nence as a citizen, rather than on success merely in making money, but the answers make it clear that an intelligent public will generally agree on what constitutes success. Anj1 incidentally it was proven that the “Old Grad” who comes back for the game, with something in his hip-pocket perhaps, and, certain­ly with a distorting haze before his eyes, when lie compares in retro­spect college life and college work, has a clearer vision after he re­turns home and is asked to give his sober Judgment on a serious matter. In any ca^ it is probable that no jury with all the facts be­fore it would disagree with the findings.
Moreover, the striking accord be­tween the list made by averaging the grades _ and that obtained by compiling information concerning success so impressed the commit­tee that it restricted its authority largely to certification of this agreement. If a man was high in one list he was almost invariably high in the other; and if low in one, low in the other. This situa­tion was repeated with such monot­ony, in_ the 1,800 names, that the temptation became strong, when one factor was known, to accept it as a certain indication of the other. If, for example, the col­lege record of- number 500 happen-,
Is America to have a Renaissance in art or will it ‘sink into a new Dark Age?R. L. Duffus, writer and journal­ist, had such a question in his mind before he toured the country in search of material for l^is new book “The American Renaissance.” The interesting record of his “more or less random pilgrimage” does not, however, attempt to answer the question of whether there is, or is to be, an American Renais­sance in art. His book is a report, of the present status of art edu­cation in some of the sections of the country. His opinions are those 
of a layman. He makes it clear, in a foreword, that he, is “guilt­less, either of painting or of teach-, ing others' to paint.” The chap­ters, he points out, represent a layman’s point of view. “But,” he adds, “they would not have come into being at all had there not been a conviction in the mind of the author and in the minds of those who have encouraged and abetted this enterprise that the layman has rights, both in art and in educa­tion. lie is, in fact, the most im­portant as he sometimes seems to be the most neglected element ijn the situation.”Mr. Duffus’ book is of interest to all who are engage in art and art education, but to Pittsburghers the findings of his investigations are of peculiar interest because of the numerous references to Pitts­burgh, the Carnegie Institute, and the Carnegie Institute of Tech­nology. /In suggesting that America is approaching a crisis “which will decide whether we shall have our Renaissance or sink into a new Dark Age,” Mr. Duffus observes that "certain straws of evidence do point toward at least a quantitative gain for the arts.” The registra­tion in all art schools and all art classes of which he has any knowl­edge has increased greatly since 
the end of the World War. In most cases the ratio of growth has exceeded that in college and uni­versity registration as a whole. Furthermore, the applied, if not the fine arts, are manifestly offer­ing careers which “even the he-man and the go-getter” do not alto­gether despise. “Here again, of course,” the author suggests, “one must ask whether these newcomers are true converts or whether they will merely vulgarize the arts.”Mr; Duffus gathered Pittsburgh “copy" for his book in a visit here about 18 months ago. His chap­ters discussing the status of art in Pittsburgh and in particular, with reference to the Carnegie Institute and the College of Fine Arts of the Institute of Technology reveal an insight and an appreciation that are all the more significant when it is considered that the author_ is dealing, largely, in comparative 
values.“If for no more than the fine dramatic contrasts in its history and surroundings,” he writes, “one would not want to pass by the College of Fine Arts at the Car­negie Institute of Technology.. 
Pittsburgh is as vibrant and pic­turesque as any citv jn America. But these qualities are incidental to the making and marketing of Steel. And steel, though it may furnish subjects or even material for artists, has yet to be aesthet­ically digested. That will come, but in the meantime, artists do not, as a rule, work in steel mills, nor go into the steel business. Pitts­burgh has been heroic but hard, magnificent but materialistic. In short, it has been a great deal like the rest of industrial America. Could art come out of such an environment? With the encourage­ment furnished by an endowed
school it could and did. And it 
is at least a plausible theo’ry that 
in any case the distinctive Ameri­
can art of the future will emerge 
from unexpected places—out of mills, factories, filling stations, ga- lages, and other milieus that are vulgar, shirt-sleeved and lusto. Art requires gusto; there it may find it:”
The Carnegie school, Mr. Duffus observes, is attempting to do in the arts what the traditional col­lege does in literature, history, mathematics, and. science. But it “turns things around. It tacks the traditional subjects on to the arts instead of the reverse.” “The stu­dents,” he adds, “are not allowed to graduate in complete ignorance of the nature and history of the civilization of which the fine and applied arts are but a subdivision. To be able to give the date of Napoleon's birth is hot half so im­portant to them as an ability to put life into a painting, or to walk upon the stage in such a manner that the audience instantly knows that they have sunk their own personalities in those of the char? acters they, are portraying.”Carnegie's peculiar stamp, as Mr. Duffus sees it, is a “quality of re­sourcefulness _ and adaptability.” “The Carnegie graduate” he re­ports, "expects to earn his living by Jiis art. This means that he must begin by convincing some ; employer that lie will be worth, in 
j dollars and cents, more than the total he receives in wages and wastes in material. He might do this more readily at first if he were carved to fit into an existing job. But the Carnegie Institute believes that in the long run the graduate 
in arts will be better off if his technique is elementary than if his imagination has atrophied. Its stu­dents are supposed to carry ideas and ideals into practical life, not merely to accept those already ex­isting. This may slow them down at the commencement of their ! careers. It is likely to speed them up after they have attained a proper mixture of experience and enthu­siasm.“The enthusLsm is as valuable as the experience, and much rarer. It is perhaps Carnegie’s greatest achievement to send its graduates into the world with their ardor undiminished by too stringent a technical education.”Severe “technical tests,” Mr. Duf­fus observes, exclude students who are palpably not fitted for an artis­tic career; equally severe achieve­ment and progress tests eliminate those who cannot-keep up to the productive mark. There is no such thing as “getting by”—a student must show marked ability or be dropped. “An art school,” Mr. Duffus reports President Thomas S. Baker as saying, "cannot justify itself unless it has as its main pur­pose the training of creative art­ists.” Carnegie, for all its collegiate atmosphere, Mr. Duffus believes, lives largely by that , motto.Interesting comparisons between Pittsburgh and Cleveland are con­tained in a chapter that Mr. Duffus has called “Dusting Off the Muse­ums.”“Pittsburgh, it is not necessary to repeat,” he writes, “is far from being an arty city. Its inhabitants do not go about, carrying lilies in their hands. Yet the same com­bination of private generosity and public responsivendss which, has made the Carnegie Institute’s Col­lege of Fine Arts distinctive has also created a great museum of art.”Mr. Duffus devotes several pages also,to the Department of Drama of the Carnegie Institute of Tech­nology.
H. A. Thomas Serves War 
Dept. In River Research
Harold A. Thomas, professor of hydraulics at Carnegie Tech, was engaged by the United States War Department to make a preliminary examination of the Delaware River and its tributaries during the pres­ent summer.
The examination had for its ob­ject the assembly of data relating to the best utilization of the water resources of the Delaware River and its tributaries in the interests of the people as a whole. It took into consideration water require­ments for all purposes, including flood control, power development, navigation, and public water sup­ply. The work included a study of present aiid future waterpower in the Delaware Valley, its bearing on navigation development, and its relation to the utilization of the water for domestic supply.
Professor Thomas’ study was carried on under the provisions of a recent Act of Congress author­izing the War Department to have investigations made relating to the utilization of the waters of the important navigable rivers of the United States. These investiga­tions, it is said, will be of great value to the Federal Power Com­mission and other bodies em­powered to grant permits for the use of river waters.
Professor Thomas has been a member of the faculty at Carnegie Institute of Technology for four years, coming to the local institu­tion from Rose Polytechnic Insti­tute, where he had been a member of the faculty for thirteen years. During his association with Rose Tech, he served as consulting en­gineer for the Pennsylvania Rail­road in connection with numerous cases of damage by floods, and in 1918 he was an engineer employed on the Flood Control Work at Dayton, Ohio. Last December he was appointed hydraulic engineer for the City of Pittsburgh to make a study of flood heights as affectcd by various proposed changes on the water fronts.
Carnegie Gridraen
(Continued from Page 1)
cnt Eythe at half and Karcis at .fullback look promising and are expected to be the great ball car­riers for. the Tartans this year. However, Moorhead and Letzelter will give these men something to worry about before the lineup is chosen. There i: a possibility of Letzelter being moved to wing half­back, but if he isn’t, Carlson, Mor- bito and T. Flanagan will fight it out for the remaining backfield position.The ends are especially strong, both on the offense and defense. Rosenzweig has developed into a dependable ball carrier which is necessary to make the end around play a success. Sweet or Shaugh- nessy . will undoubtedly play the other end. One tackle job is still open, while Schmidt, one of last year’s stars, will hold down the other. Highbcrger is a strong con­tender also. Carnegie Tech has been extremely unfortunate with its guards for two great linemen have been lost. Mielziner, last year’s center was playing a great game at guard up until the time he was operated on for appendicitis. He will probably be out for several weeks. Bob Netherland, another guard, who is. incidentally one of the best linesmen Tech has ever had, may be ineligible because lie missed several exams last year dur­ing his stay in the hospital. To make up for this lack of guards, Schnuppe has been moved from tackle to guard and will continue to play there until Mielsiner or Netherland return to the lineup. Don Lovcwell, another veteran, is filling the other gap in a very sat­isfy-tory manner. The center po­sition should cause the coaches no worry as long as John Dreshar, captain of last year’s great plebe team, continues to perform in his usual brilliant manner. Yerina, a substitute, should be able to give a good account of himself at any position o- the line if he is needed.The prospects for this year look very good at present and the Ski- bos should enjoy a successful. sea­son if they do not get overconfi­dent. Pitt and W. and J. will al­ways turn out good football and these two .must not be underesti­mated. One just has to look at th impressive records of N. Y. U. and Georgetown to realize the strength of these opponents. Many things have to be taken into con­sideration about the Notre Dame game. In the first place, they are out for revenge. Good football teams are. a tradition and their team has not been defeated on their home field for twenty-two years. Although Tech has fair material and reallv should have a good year, they will have a hard nut to crack when they travel to Soiith Bend. An undefeated sea­son is almost an impossibility and perhaps a little too much to ex­pect but if our dreams in this re­spect do come true, W. P. Stef­fen and R. N. Waddell will deserve all the -redit that can be possi- ably given them.
SERIOUSLY SPEAKING
Of seriously speaking, indeed there is no end . . .However, when the frost is on the pumpkin and there is a nip in the air, one is inspired to tell the world about it, or that small portion of it that is inveigled into lending an ear. In the fall not alone do the fruit and the seed fall ripened, but there arc some who simply must -let fall various shreds of ideas and thoughts that have germinated through the idle months.The pagans of old celebrated the beginning of spring with revelry that often had a bucolic side to it, for the lean months were at an end and the crops would begin to grow again, upon which their entire existence depended. Not so today. The autumn time rather has taken on an unusual signifi­cance, at least for youth. When the shadows begin to lengthen and an inscrutable chemistry turns the leaves into shedding shades, then the sap begins to rise in the breasts of young collegiates. Thoughts turn to dear old alma mater and to resumption of the contacts and activities vaguely sur­rounding the lecture halls. With trunks packed and the old Ford dressed in the latest array of wise­cracks, the first payment on the tuition hastily gotten together through raids on the bank account and a series of mortgages, liens and various commitments of one’s fortune for the next 20 years, off goes j'oung hopeful.At this time of the year, then, they foregather again to resume the ways of ebullient school spirit, to fall into the mores that sur­round the team and the frat. and the diabolic quiz. This is a way of life—to be sure—that appears crude and gauche to man}' a wise­acre, but nevertheless, in it is in­corporated much of the zest of life and the flowering of the person­ality of young men and women. All the might of worthy and seri­ous men cannot prevent this as­pect of college existence from tak­ing hold, although it may neverhave been foreseen as the purposeof "higher education.”On the other side, the facultywander back, some aflame with a new light or others simply with a new abundance of notes avidly gar­nered in summer school libraries —some inspired anew with the
I miraculous hints of a new light which burns upon their tongue* for the utterance, others perhaps ' fallen into a fatal skepticism and irony—but all alike eager to com­municate their scries of new ad­jectives or formulas. In the fall, there is a stir in the heart of the schoolman.
Thus around the campus the 1 lines are redrawn, the characteris­tic greetings exchanged and a hasty inventory made of the summer. What is most astounding, how­ever, is that we confront one an­other for the world unchanged, with the well known and rtimem- Ibcrcd look and phrase and hope.’ What little metamorphosis is ob­servable, with what calmness the greetings arc bandied! For upon the face of things, we changc so imperceptibly and casually as to evade recognition. Perhaps deep down in a subtle sense we have altered, or, in a dim organic sense, we arc growing and waxing in stature and spirit. A different man speaks, a different woman walks there in the old shoes, but who is the wizard among us that can spot him? The ancient peoples worshiped the serpent as the sym­bol of immortality, for did it not moult its skin and gain a new life each season? This they envied and it was this, that the serpent stole from Alan and thus cor­rupted his paradise. •/So as the rackct renews each fall on the campus, there is buoyant hope and the heady promise of greater things. For some, the joy is merely in feeling the old har­ness securely .upon the shoulders, for without this we would be un­comfortable. And as we meet 
and opr eye is filled with the bril­liance of the new garments and the motor cars (payments deferred) of friends and colleagues, is it not astounding how little we can .fathom of the effect that time has (wrought and of the processing of life’s cycle in their hearts. . . .However, they say that our foot­ball team this year shall make whoopee over the fallen bodies of the ancient foes, and there is a new snap course in the psychology department, and Paul Whiteman plays at Syria Mosque next week, and the frcshies are the dumbest looking lot, and ...Seriously speaking ....
N. M.
ALUMNI ARE URGED TO JOIN THE CLAN
IN THEIR DISTRICT
ed to be misplaced, but the infor­
mation showed that he had clearly 
wron no distinction in life, it hardly seemed worth while to search for the missing record.’ Experience with hundreds of others made it sure that he could be classed, with ninety-nine per cent of certainty, in the group with low marks.
These statistics clearly seem too unanimous. It hardly appears probable that so rigid an agree- me-t between college records and career in later life would exist. There are scarcely enough excep­tions to prove the rule.
Lightning has been made to 
write its biography with a pencil of electrons on a photographic |film' by means of a device set up [in the laboratory of; the General 
Electric Company. This apparatus is known as the “cathode ray oscillograph” and has proved of great value to those engaged in the study of the fire damage by lightning.
A_ nature-loving magistrate in China fines the prisoners a number of butterflies instead of taels or Chinese dollars.
Carnegie Clans ^are scattered throughout the country in all the principal cities, and most of them are very active. Our alumni should 
find it of particular advantage and pleasure for themselves to be able to associate with others from Car­negie in the same district, and the clans are always eager to welcome new members. Several new clans have been inaugurated during the past year, and one or two arc be­ing considered in cities where there are none at present. Get in touch with the secretary or president of the clan in' your district. Get ac­quainted with the Carnegie alumni 
in your district.A revised clan directory will be printed very soon in the Carnegie 
Tartan. If you find that there is no clan in your district, write to Miss Andrews, who will send you a list of the alumni in .your dis­trict, to whom you can go to talk 
about organizing a clan.
Second International 
Conference
(Continued from Page 1)
P. Rosin, Germany; C. J. Jefferson, 
United States.Catalysts: Professor A. Mailhe, France; Professor Hugh S. Taylor, 
United States.Rubber from Coal: Professor
Fritz Hoffman, Germany.Addresses not yet classified un­der these headings will be given, it is expected, by F. S. Sinnatt, England;- Raymond 3crr, France; P. E. Raaschou, Denmark; John Hays Hammond, Howard N. Eav- enson, E. E. Slosson, Dr. Arthur D. Little, A. C. Fieldncr and Dr. I-I. C. Parmelee, United States.The list of speakers, it is pointed out, will be considerably enlarged during the coming months. Presi­dent Baker and his associates plan­ning the Congress expect to an­nounce the final program details in October.In addition to the above scien­tists a large number of prominent American industrialists and finan­ciers will be present at the Con­gress. There were nearly 1,800 delegates at the Conference in 1926 and it is expected that the meeting of 1928 will be more .largely at­
tended.The members of the Advisory Board for the Congress are John Hays Hammond, distinguish­ed American Engineer; _ E. M. Herr, President, Westinghouse Electric, and Manufacturing Com­pany; Samuel Insull, Capitalist; 
Frank B. Jewett, President of the Bell Laboratories, Inc.; Otto H. Kalin, capitalist; George E. Learn- ard, President, International Com­bustion Engineering Corporation; A. W. Mellon, Secretary of the Treasury; Auguste G. Pratt, Presi­dent, Babcock & Wilcox Company; H. B. Rust, President, Koppers Company; Charles M. Schwab, chairman, Bethlehem Steel Corpor­ation; W. C. Teagle, President, Standard Oil Company, New Jer­
sey.
ROAD CONSTRUCTION
AT RECORD LEVEL
The Bureau of Public Roads, United States Department of Agri­culture, reports road construction in 1928 will equal and probably ex­ceed that of any previous year. Work under state supervision will result in the construction of nearly 9,000 miles of hard-surfaced pave­ment, 12,000 miles of less_ expen­sive surfaced roads, and in 8,0(J0 miles adequately drained and grad­ed. The Bureau estiniati.3 , iftaL probably $750,000,000 will be avail­able lo the state highway depart­ments for road and bridge {con­struction and maintenance, and about $550,000,000 will be spent by. county and local authorities.
POLYLINGUAL
Wouldn’t it be interesting to speak twenty-four languages—to converse with equal ease in Arabic, Hungarian, and Japanese? After reading the sentence quoted below you have spoken words from twen­ty-four languages.
"The ugly thug loafed at a da- . mask-covered table on the cafe balcony Wednesday eating goulash land drinking hot chocolate with a ' half-caste brunette in a kimono- sleeved lemon yellow gown and a crimson angora wool shawl, while he deciphered a code notation from a canny smuggler of silk cargoes on the back of the paper menu.” 
The language sources of .this un­usual sentence arc: Ugly, Danish;thug, Hindu; loafed, German; cafe, brunette, menu, French; balcony, Italian; damask, Syrian; covered, table, code, notation, Latin Wed­nesday, drinking, hot, half, Scan­dinavian; goulash, Hungarian, choc­olate, Mexican; caste, Portuguese; lemon, sleeved, back, Anglo-Saxon; gown, Celtic; crimson, deciphered, Arabic; angora, Turkish; while, Greek; canny, Scotch or Icelandic; silk, Chinese; cargo, Spanish; smuggler, Dutch; paper, Egyptian.
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY TO CONDUCT GAS COURSE
For the fourth consecutive year, the Industrial Gas Section of the 
American Gas Association will of­fer, through its Committee on Edu­cation of Personnel, a two-weeVs’ intensive course in industrial gas 
salesmanship.This year the course will be con­ducted by the School of Commerce, Accounts and Finance of New York University under the direction of E. E. Ferris, professor of sales­manship, and will be held Septem­
ber 5 to 18.The course will differ from the previous courses offered, and from those given at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the 
University of Illinois, in that it will deal exclusively with sales-: manship and its related topics.
GAS DOES THE TRICK
AT GIANT BARBECUE
GAS IS BETTERFOR HINDOO DEAD
The public authorities of the City of Bombay are consideripg the im­provement of the lime-honored method of the disposal of the 
Hindoo dead. The practice irf Bom­bay is to burn the bodies on wood fires, but the city authorities arc inclined to favor gas-fired incinera­
tors.A consulting engineer in Lon­
don asks if there is not some 
means by which electricity can be used for cremation purposes, but the Bombay officials have evident­
ly learned that ‘‘You can do it better with gas.”
Natural gas recently solved the problem of roasting a ton of beef 
at. a barbecue in the Southwest, at which three thousand customers of a utility company were fed. A trench three feet deep and about 50 feet long w-as dug and burners of perforated casing were installed 
below a double layer of loose brick. A heavy wire grate was stretched 
above the grate and" on it was placed the ton of beef to be roasted.
It is always a seasonable ques­tion a.s to what outdoor sports 
most interest young America, and old America, too, for that matter. While individual answers arc like­ly to be as various as the persons who give them, a larger report is at hand in a statement by the Play­ground and Recreation Association of America. According to the as­sociation's figures, the six most popular sports last year, ranked by the number of teams using municipal 'playgrounds, were: Play­ground ball, 16,129; baseball, 14,676; basketball, 13,052; volleyball, 6,179; horseshoes, 4,901; and, soccer, 3,493.Tennis courts increased by 723, swimming pools by 147, and golf courses by 69 over the totals for 1926. And for a sign of the times, model aircraft construction and fly­ing, a new activity on public play­grounds, wras reported last year by 138 communities.
New York City has in the neigh­borhood of 21,000 telephone opera­tors.
