The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 36 No. 1CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA. WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 1942
^ene Krupa Plays 
For Fall Carnival
On Friday and Saturday, Septem­
ber 18 and 19, Carnegie Tech’s sec­
ond Fall Carnival will take place. 
Last year’s Carnival, especially im­
portant because it was the first, will 
be entirely eclipsed by this year. 
Because of the expedited pro­
gram, it will take the place of the 
traditional Spring Carnival for 
many of the students.
The big event of the Carnival will 
be the informal dance on Saturday 
night. Gene Krupa, the nation’s top 
drummer, and his band will play. 
Soloists who share the spotlight 
with Krupa are Anita O’Day, love­
ly lady of song, Ray Eberle, baritone 
star formerly with Glenn Miller, 
and Roy Eldridge, trumpet wizard.
V Krupa and his orchestra have just 
returned from California where they 
recently completed several engage­
ments and a movie for R. K. O.
A street dance in true Carnival 
spirit will be the attraction on Fri­
day night. Campus organziations 
will have numerous novelty and 
refreshments booths on the cut, and 
amusements will be on hand.
The crowning of the Campus 
Queen, to be elected on September 
15, will take place in the Sylvan 
Theatre on Saturday afternoon. 
There will also be a pushmobile 
race for the boys and competition 
races for the girls.
Two tickets for Carnival will be 
given as door prizes at the Dragon 
Tea Dance on September 8. Those 
not lucky enough to be winners may 
buy their tickets at the tea dance 
for $3.85, tax included.
^No-Date'' Tea Dance 
Op ens Social Season 
Tuesday, September 8
Tuesday, September 8, is the date 
set for the first téa dance of the 
fall term. It will be held in Thistle 
Hall from four to six in the after­
noon. The Dragon Society, Senior 
class men’s activities honorary, 
which is sponsoring the event, has 
set the price at thirty cents (includ­
ing tax) per person.
As is the usual custom, this first 
tea dance of the year will be a no­
date affair. In this way, those at­
tending the dance will have the op­
portunity of meeting as many fellow 
students as possible. It wjll be the 
first opportunity for the Freshmen 
to meet the upperclassmen socially, 
and, incidentally, gives the upper- 
class wolves a chance to look over 
the current crop of smooth Plebes.
Definite arrangements have not 
yet been made for music, but it is 
probable that a popular campus 
orchestra will be on hand. Refresh­
ments will be available for those 
who find the day’s activity a bit too 
strenuous.
Those who are a bit timid about 
asking one of our lovely lassies for 
a dance should ask any man wear­
ing a black Dragon hat to handle the 
introduction.
Gene Krupa, ace drummer-man, will be the feature attraction of Tech’s 
Fall Carnival on September 19th.
Robert Sleesman New ROTC 
Regimental Commander
The Military Department has 
just announced the appointment of 
the Senior ROTC students to the 
various Cadet offices The ranking 
officer is Robert Sleesman who has 
been appointed to the position of 
Regimental Commander, and holds 
the rank of Cadet Colonel.
Bob Sleesman is a senior in the 
Department of Management Engi­
neering. He hails from nearby 
Turtle Creek and is a member of 
the Pi Kappa Alpha social fra­
ternity. Among his activities are 
Scabbard and Blade, of which he is 
the Commanding Officer, Alpha Phi 
Omega, and the Scottie. Bob was 
quite surprised at his appointment, 
Because of the limited quota of Ad­
vanced Corps students he was un­
able to officially enroll in the ad­
vanced ROTC at the beginning of 
his junior year. At that time the 
selections were made on a schol­
astic basis and his qualifications 
were not quite high enough to en­
able him to rank in the first fifty— 
the quota limit. However, since then 
the quota has been enlarged and 
the appointments were made on a 
basis of leadership in which Bob 
was adjudged to be the outstand­
ing senior.
The second ranking officer is 
Lieut. Col. Max Williams who holds 
the position of Regimental Officer. 
Max is outstanding in activities, be­
ing President of Tau Beta Pi, Ed­
itor of the Technical, and a member 
of Scabbard and Blade.
The remaining appointments are 
listed below in order of rank. All 
men receiving similar appoints- 
ments are given an equal rank.
BATTALION COMMANDERS Rank of Major W. Newman, A. Borelli, J. Chesley, V.Evans, R. McCutcheon.
REGIMENTAL ADJUTANT Rank of CaptainC. Gilman.
COMPANY COMMANDERS Rank of CaptainE. Callendar, N. Crooks, J. Curry, F. Dietrich, T. Gregorious, J, Horth, Hauser, N. Lewis, F. Lindstrom, J. Loftus, F. Mc­Clure, A. McDonald, H. W. Morgan, W. Reichenecker, F. Stulen.
BATTALION ADJUTANTS Rank of Captain R, Allers, T. Burtis, A. Chapin, W.Cochran, M. Gordon.
PLATOON LEADERS Rank of First Lieutenant R. Anderson, R. Barrett, W. Beilhartz, J. Bowers, E. Cerutti, L. Croup, M. Dun­ham, J. W. Duroux, W. France, J, Fry, W, Geary, H. Gorman, W. Gretzler, J. W. Hurford, J. Isenberg, R. Johnson, W. Johnson, W. King, R. Loper, W. Marlatt, J. Maxwell, L. Prus, W. Ritchey, G, Rod­ney, J. Rupp, D. Scheline, R. Staib, M. Snyder, R. Weise, A- Wetzel.
HEADQUARTERS SECTION 
COMMANDERSRank of Second Lieutenant T. Brendle, R. Bundy, C. Carver, D. Casbard, C. Cline, X. Eugenedes, S. Feld­man, F. Gramm, R. Muirhead, W. Rieseck,B. Tingley, E. Turnock, Wagner, E. Walker.
REGIMENTAL SERGEANT MAJORRank'of Master Sergeant .. S, E, Christian
Frosh Class Tops 
Previous Records
Present enrollment of freshman 
engineers has broken all records at 
Tech, and the same is being done 
at most of the engineering schools 
in the country. The government has 
asked the technical schools to ex­
pand freshman enrollments, and 
Tech has responded by entering a 
class that will tax all of its capacity.
Enrollments for the various 
schools are as follows:—Engineer­
ing: regular freshmen 401, irregu­
lars 21, upperclassmen 821, total 
3,243; Fine Arts: regular freshmen 
119, irregular 11, upperclassmen 
274, total 430; Margaret Morrison: 
regular freshmen 115, irregular 3, 
upperclassmen 312, total 430. Grand 
total for the school is 2,077 students. 
Totals of the colleges are as yet in­
complete, since late registrants will 
come in for the next few days.
A dearth of engineers has exist­
ed for some time now, and this in 
addition to expedition of senior pro­
grams is Tech’s method of meeting 
the shortage. Although the de­
mands made on the departments 
will be greater, the calibre of the 
courses, and the standards of Tech 
generally will remain as high as 
ever.
Professor Boettcher Is 
Lien tenant In Air Corps
Henry Boettcher, head of the De­
partment of Drama, has been com- 
missed a First Lieutenant in the 
Army Air Corps and will report for 
active duty at Miami Beach Thurs­
day.
Mr. Boettcher was assistant pro­
fessor of drama at Allegheny Col­
lege in Meadville, Pennsylvania, 
before coming to Tech in 1936 as the 
successor of Elmer Kenyon, former 
head of the department.
After receiving Ph. B. and M. A. 
degrees from the University of Chi­
cago, he attended the Yale Drama 
School where he worked under 
George Pierce Baker, head of the 
famous “57 Workshop.” At Yale 
he received his Master of Fine Arts,
In the Tech Drama Department, 
Mr. Boettcher directed many plays, 
including the annual Shakespearean 
productions. During the past sum­
mer, he and George Kimberly, a 
member of the Drama faculty, took 
a three-week course in civilian 
camouflage at Fort Belvoir, Vir­
ginia.
Freshmen Notice
All freshmen who are interested 
in working on the TARTAN staff, 
either on the editorial, business, or 
sports staffs, are invited to an or­
ganization meeting on Friday, Sep­
tember 4 at 4:30. The meeting will 
be held in the TARAN Office, on the 
third floor of the Carnegie Union. 
No previous writing experience is 
required.

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 1942
All Tech Men May Now Enlist
In Army, Navy, Marine Reserve
With our country in war, many 
additional facilities have been pro­
vided by which Tech students may 
enlist in the armed services and 
still remain in school. In this ex­
panded military program, the 
broadening of the requirements for 
enrollment in the R. O. T. C. takes 
first place. Heretofore, the program 
was installed primarily for the En­
gineering College, since scheduling 
made it difficult for Fine Arts stu­
dents to enroll, although any phys­
ically qualified male was eligible for 
the basic course. Furthermore, Fine 
Arts students, except for those tak­
ing course 1, option 2, were not 
eligible for the advanced course, 
thus discouraging many who might 
have enrolled. Under the new pro­
gram, all male students, irregard- 
less of course or year, provided they 
are qualified, will be able to enroll 
in the first year basic course. Sched­
uling is taken care of by placing all 
freshman enrollees in engineering 
in regularly scheduled classes and 
all other students will be in a class 
with engineering upperclassmen. 
The latter class will meet three 
times a week at 4:30. All students 
except seniors who enroll in the R. 
O- T. C. will be required to complete 
the basic course as a graduation pre­
requisite.
Students who enroll in the R. O. 
T. C. may not enlist in the Navy or 
Marine Reserves, and, conversely, 
students already in these corps may 
not take R. O. T. C. However, a stu­
dent in the Army Enlisted Reserve 
may or may not enroll in R. O. T. C., 
depending on which he wants. A 
student in R. O. T. C. may enlist in 
the Army Reserves, also. For those 
who are in both of these Army 
corps, and who graduated from 
Tech, will go six weeks to service 
school and then be commissioned as 
second lieutenants in the Officer’s 
Reserve Corps, the commissions 
may be retained after the war. Any 
who leave the school before gradua­
tion will be taken into the Army as 
enlisted men. Those in the enlisted 
reserve but not in R. O. T. C. will, 
upon graduation from here, be taken 
to a replacement center for basic 
training, following which, provided 
they are qualified, they will be or­
dered to Officer’s Candidate School 
for six-month’s training, after which 
they will receive commissions in the 
regular Army, commissions to ex­
pire six months after the war ends. 
Further information on these two 
services may be gotten in the Mili­
tary Department, Room 239, Indus­
tries. Consult Mr. Charles E. 
Wangeman, Room 155-B, Industries, 
for comparison with other services.
The Navy Reserve Corps offers 
three choices—namely classes V-l, 
V-5, and V-7. V-l is the accredited 
college program. The enlistees will 
continue college at their own ex­
pense and take pre-induction train­
ing courses, but will remain inactive 
for the first two years of college. A 
general examination will be given 
before this period is up and deter­
mine, who may transfer to V-5 and 
V-7, while those who are not select­
ed for this will be allowed to finish 
the first two years of college and 
then be called to active duty. Some 
students may enlist in V-5 directly, 
V-5 being the Naval Aviation Cadet 
Class. The physical examination is 
broader in scope than for non-flying 
branches, and the mental test must 
be passed with a score of 80 or bet­
ter. Juniors and seniors may enlist 
directly in V-7, Deck or Engineering 
Officer Class, provided they meet 
the educational qualifications. They 
will remain inactive until they have 
obtained their degree. Engineering 
students, and those majoring in 
math or physics may enlist for 
special duty in the V-l program pro­
vided their eyes are 12/20 or better, 
correctable to 20/20.
The Marine Corps Reserve con­
sists of men from any of the four 
classes. They enlist as first class 
privates and remain inactive until 
graduation, unless it becomes nec­
essary to call them to active duty 
before then. In the latter case, at 
least six months’ notice will be 
given. After being called to active 
service, candidates will take a ten- 
weeks’ training course as enlisted 
men and then go on, if qualified, to 
officers’ training. When they are 
finished, officers will be assigned 
their duties depending upon their 
various qualifications. Students who 
fail to qualify for commission will 
either be transfered for service as 
enlisted men or be discharged. Those 
in active service will be able to get 
an assignment to officers’ school just 
as any regular enlisted man.
Russian Course Offered . . .
A three unit course in Elementary 
Russian will be offered this year. 
Classes will be held on Tuesday and 
Thursday of each week from 6:30- 
8:00 P. M. under the direction of 
Joseph Harsky, B. P. E., M. A.
Welcome Class of 1946
Tech Upperclassmen are regular customers of
CRAIG-FORBES PHARMACY
CORNER OF CRAIG AND FORBES
Tasty Lunches at
"the Friendly Drug Store" 
Phone for Deliveries
. ' ft 'X
Lieut. Merle H. Culp, former 
Tech student of Ford City, Penna., 
who recently received his wings at 
the Army’s Gulf Coast Training 
Center. Lieutenant Culp, after com­
pleting 27 weeks of thorough, inten­
sive flight training, graduated with 
another “largest class in history” to 
join many former Tech students in 
this arm of the service.
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
Bambco -fj" 
Gardens
3531 FORBES STREET
Delicious Chinese and American 
Food Is Served 
Special Meals At Moderate Prices 
Luncheon Served From 11-3 P. M. 
35c and up 
Dinner Served From 5-9 P. M.
55c and up 
Also Special Rates For Parties
Bathtub Warblers 
Extended Invitation
For all girls who like to sing, Car­
negie Tech proudly points to its 
Women’s Glee Club. Just a simple 
successful audition — the time of 
which will be posted on the Arts 
and Margaret Morrison bulletin 
boards—is all that is necessary for 
membership in the Club. Meetings 
are held on Monday evenings from 
7:00-8:30 P. M. and Thursday after­
noons from 4:30-530 P. M. The 
Club participates in several concerts 
each year and makes many trips. 
Mrs. Kurtz is the director.
Similarly, there is the Men’s Glee 
Club for all boys who enjoy singing. 
Its meetings are held each Monday 
and Wednesday afternoons from 
4:30-5:30 P. M. The Club journey­
ed to Wilson College and Annapolis 
last year and is planning many trips 
this season. Karl Malcherek, retired 
violin professor, will maintain his 
position as its director. Notices of 
time for the required audition will 
be posted in Engineering Hall and 
the Arts Building soon.
New UC” Book To Go 
On Sale October 1
In order that the 1942-1943 Stu­
dent Directory be issued as early as 
possible, it is necessary that all 
changes in local adresses and tele­
phone numbers be reported prompt­
ly to the Registrar’s Office, accord­
ing to Max Hannum, manager of the 
Bureau of News Publications.
As customary in past years, the 
“C” book will contain the names of 
members and pledges of the various 
fraternities, sororities, and honor- 
aries, as well as class officers. This 
information must be turned in t6 
Mrs. Yon or Mr. Murphy by next 
Monday. The Directories will be 
on sale in the Bookstore around Oc­
tober 1.
All students should file a change 
of form in the Registrar’s Office if 
they have moved during the sum­
mer or changed their address from 
dorm to frat, or vice versa.
WOODLAWN PHARMACY
SUGGESTIONS FOR THE STUDENT
SHEAFFER’S OR PARKER OR ESTERBROOK PENS AND
PENCILS............................................................................$1.00 and up
DESK LAMPS, Complete with Bulbs...................................$1.49 to $3.50
THREE RING NOTE BOOKS, with Fillers.....................69c—$1.60—$2.00
PARKER OR SHEAFFER’S FOUNTAIN PEN INK..................15c or 25c
ALARM CLOCKS......................................................................$1.49 and up
ZIPPER THREE RING NOTE BOOKS...............69c, $1.25, $2.98 and up
CARNEGIE TECH STATIONERY...........................................49c and up
COMPLETE GYM OUTFITS FOR BOYS, SHIRTS, TRUNKS, LOCK,
SWEAT SHIRTS, ETC.
ROOM SUPPLIES
Soap Dishes — Drinking Glasses — Metal Book Ends — Electric Plugs — Ex­
tension Cords — Electric Bulbs — Lux Flakes — Wash Cloths — Shoe Shine 
Kits — Soap — Combs — Locks — Waste Baskets — Knives — Playing Cards
— Ash Trays.
MEDICAL SUPPLIES
First Aid Kits — Tooth Paste — Brush — Shampoo — Aspirin — Mouth Wash
— Iodine — Mercurochrome — Thermometer.SCHOOL SUPPLIES
Note Books — Fillers — Venus Pencils — Scotch Tape — Typewriter Ribbons
— Carbon Paper — Glue — Mucilage — Paralastik.FOR WOMEN
Bobby Pins — Cosmetics — Kleenex — Stocking Makeup — Flashlights — 
Deoderants — Shampoo — Hand Scrubs — Nail Files.FOR MEN
Razor Blades — Shaving Cream —Shaving Lotion — Brilliantine — Tobacco — 
Pipes — Pouches — Flashlights — Mirrors — Handkerchiefs — Ear Plugs — 
Shoe Shine Kits.TECH NOVELTIES
Tech Stationery — Jewelry — Pennants — Pillows — Crew Caps — License 
Plates — Dicals — Shirts — Sweaters — Animals — Zipper Jackets — Sweat 
Shirts — Compacts.MISCELLANEOUS
Magazines — Candy — Paper Napkins — Perfumes — Greeting Cards — 
Gifts for all occasions.[f

---------------------------------------------------

LEONARD’S MEN’S SHOP
CAMPUS HEADQUARTERS 
ARROW PRODUCTS
Corner Forbes at Atwood
Arrow HEADQUARTERSGREEN BROTHERS
440 Wood Street Downtown
rWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 1942_______ THE CARNEGIE TARTAN 5
FRANK
MEN'S WEAR
OPEN EVERY EVENING
5872 FORBES STREET SQUIRREL HILL
Dragons Go National
Carnegie Tech Senior Class Honorary Society 
Becomes Circle Of Omicron Delta Kappa
Fort Fitt is the Place 
to Rent
T 'PEWRITERS
ALL
MAKES
$3.00 per 
Month
MODEL 
|| SERVICE
3619 Forbes Street 
SChenley 4313
Call and Delivery 
¡twww»8wwwwts«wtmmmt»»»»mtt
As a result of negotiations which 
ha. e been in progress during the 
summer months, the Dragon So­
ciety, senior men’s activities honor­
ary, will become a chapter of Omi­
cron Delta Kappa, national leader­
ship honor society. Sixteen Dragons 
will be initiated as charter members 
of the new O. D. K. chapter at a 
banquet tentatively scheduled for 
Saturday, September 19.
Among those who will be present 
at the banquet to welcome the 
initiates will be C. Stanton Belfour, 
natpnal president, and Robert W. 
Bishop, Executive secretary. The 
r ;w Carnegie chapter will be 
k.iown in national O. D. K. chapters 
as the Dragon Circle.
The Dragon Society has been 
functioning for many years both as 
a means of recognizing outstanding 
participation in campus activities 
by men of the senior class, and as a 
group entrusted with responsibility 
for extra-curricular events. Among 
the duties of the Dragon Society are 
acting as aides of the Presidents of 
the Senior Classes in all class func­
tions; having charge of the Senior 
Ball and all dances and tea dances 
sponsored by Student Council; and 
being responsible for all pep rallies 
and other such meetings of the en­
tire school.
All these functions which have 
been promoted by the Dragon So­
ciety in the past will become the 
responsibility of the Dragon Circle 
of O. D. K. In addition to the 
honor which comes with being call­
ed to the senior class men’s honor­
ary, subsequent O. D. K. men will 
have all the privileges and advan­
tages of belonging to a national 
group.
President of this year’s Dragon 
Society is Bill Newman. Other of­
ficers are Hugo Barbian, treasurer, 
and D’Arle Hindall, secretary. The 
other thirteen men who are soon to 
become O. D. K. members are 
George Hobbs, Vernon Spitaleri, 
Jack Van Arsdell, Frank Martin,
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
A Safe 
Combination...
ARROW SHIRTS AND TIES
FOR
Quality Cleaning
Arrow’s grouped color sets of shirts, 
ties and handkerchiefs ... and even 
shorts . . . originate on design sheets 
long before the fabrics are woven. 
Thus each complementary color tone 
and motif is controlled from the 
beginning. The ensemble sets are in 
three basic shades to harmonize with 
blue, brown, or gray suits.
You get, too, Arrow’s superb tailor­
ing, exclusive fabrics, and that inimi­
table Arrow collar.
Load up on these handsome Arrow 
foursomes today.
Edward Schatz, Bob Reisacher, Bill 
Thun Hurst, Nelson Crooks, Bill 
King, George Rodney, Max Wil­
liams, Leonard Chotiner, and Walter 
Haller.,
Under the national constitution of 
Omicron Delta Kappa, four faculty 
men must be included among the 
active members of each circle. Those 
selected for this capacity by the 
Dragon Society are Rollin V. Davis, 
Dean Albert J. Murphy, A1 Irwin 
and Roy W. Powell.
Two men on Tech’s faculty be­
longed to the Pitt Circle of Omicron 
Delta Kappa: Head of the Bureau 
of News and Publication Max Han- 
num and Football Coach Edward 
Baker.
Omicron Delta Kappa was found­
ed December 3, 1914 at Washington 
and Lee University, Lexington, Vir­
ginia. It recognizes and encourages 
achievement in the major phases of 
college life. It also recognizes out­
standing leadership and service in 
public life. Increasingly, ODK has 
played a significant role in campus 
and community life as a great force 
for good, for solid achievement and 
for practical guidance. The carry­
over from campus into post collegi­
ate life has also demonstrated the 
power and worth of such a society.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CAPNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 1942
BENCHMARKS
By Don Watkins 
Sports Editor
Outlook for Athletics
With the coming of Fall, football takes the limelight in sports news. The 
situation at Tech is unusually fine since the. losses by graduation have been 
minimized; a comparatively experienced team will take the field. Also the 
schedule is easy in comparison with former years. Although this has nothing 
to do with the quality of the squad itself, it will do much to increase student 
interest and spirit. No longer will we all go to the games purely out of a
sense of duty to a definitely inferior team. The games will be close, not run­
aways by teams such as Notre Dame. No one likes to sit in a stadium and 
watch a de-emphasized team take a drubbing game after gaftie not because of 
lack of spirit, but merely because of the fact that it is playing over its head.
The introduction of the possibility of using freshmen on the varsity team 
will serve to produce more men 011 the team thus eliminating the practice of 
using a man for a full hour of ball in a game. This fact is of major importance 
because of the slow-down experienced by a team which has men playing full 
games.
With these improvements in progress we may look forward to an im­
proved brand of football during the coming season.
Although football will eclipse all other athletic activity during the coming 
weeks, others will be getting under way. One of these is soccer which draws 
a surprisingly large amount of participants and spectators. It is one of the 
minor sports which has come into its own in the past few years. The team 
has shown steady improvement and the prospects for the coming year are
good. Last year’s record, although not so good on paper, showed that the
squad was doing yoeman service since most of the losses were by very small 
margins. This fact coupled with the return of many veterans from last year 
makes the soccer season seem well under control.
Until the semester gets under way no information can be obtained as to 
just what will arise. Only practice will show what definite possibilities are in 
store for the team.
Swimmers Start 
Practice Early
Despite the serious inroads made 
on last year’s swimming team by 
the expedited program, the team’s 
prospects are very promising. Since 
the season does not start until after 
December 20, Coach Risedorph will 
be without the services of seniors 
Martin in backstroke, Burtis and 
Turnock in freestyle, Loper and 
Vapda in breastroke, and Morgan 
and Brown in the diving events. 
These losses, however, should be 
adequately counter-balanced by the 
strong contingent of veteran juniors 
headed by Captain John Dowd and 
including freestylers Taber, Gal­
braith, and Tankosich; backstroke 
dependables McCulloch and C. 
Sarosdy; and Beal in breaststroke. 
Besides this Coach Risedorph will 
have from last year’s freshman 
team Lee in diving and dashes, 
Spangler, Woolett and Lorenz for 
other freestyle chores, F. Sarosdy to 
assist his brother in the backstroke, 
and Dumm for breaststroke. All 
these men showed considerable abil­
ity last year, and should make an 
enviable record this season. Chris 
Smith, who last year was handicap* 
ped by injuries, may be able to 
handle half of the diving.
Although it is too early yet to say 
much about the incoming freshmen, 
Coach Risedorph expects to have 
several good men available. The 
suspension of the freshman rule 
will allow him to use them in var­
sity competition their first year, so 
that there will not arise the neces­
sity of using one man in so many 
events that he will not be at his 
best in the last.
The schedule, which runs from 
January 15 to March 16, include 
eleven dual meets and the Penn- 
Ohio Championships to be held in 
the Tech pool.
RODGERS
DAIRY STORES
MILK SHAKES
Made from Pure Whole Milk for 
only 10c
We Do Not Use Skim Milk.
NEAREST STORES LOCATED
------AT------
395 FORBES STREET 
Near Bouquet Street 
4619 CENTER AVENUE 
Near Craig Street
ON YOUR LIST 
TO REMEMBER
BOWLING
-at-
1
UNIVERSITY
RECREATION
Craig Near Forbes
Prospects Bright for 
Coming Season As 
Griclmen Begin Work
Yesterday the Tech gridders, un­
der the tutelage of the good Dr. 
Baker and his able cohorts, began 
their intensive practice preparatory 
to their first game of the season on 
September 26. The prospects for 
this season seem much better than 
last year. Invitations have been 
sent out to forty-nine men, and this 
does not include the freshmen, con­
sequently the team should be com­
posed of well over fifty men. The 
losses this year were comparatively 
slight; Matonis left for the army the 
middle of last year and Anderson 
was among the graduates, as were 
Alexander and Johnson. Holets, 
Minkel and Hennessy are ineligible 
having already played their allotted 
three years of ball. Another reason 
for this brighter outlook is that the 
freshmen will be able to play on the 
varsity. This should considerably 
bolster the team since there will be 
some financial aid given to a few 
outstanding high school players.
Our greatest rivals this year seem 
to be Case on October 10 in Pitt Sta­
dium, University of Buffalo at 
Buffalo on October 24, and our tra­
ditional foe the University of Pitts­
burgh on October 21. The remain­
ing schools will serve as breathers 
between our stiffer opponents. The 
schedule is complete except for No­
vember 7 which is an open date due 
to the fact that American Univer­
sity cancelled their football season 
for the duration of the war. Fol­
lowing is the official football sched­
ule for the coming season.
September 26 — Geneva College, 
Pittsburgh.
October 3—Westminster College, 
New Wilmington, ^a.
October 10—Case School of Ap­
plied Science, Pittsburgh.
October 17—Grove City College, 
Grove City.
October 24—University of Buffalo, 
Buffalo.
October 31—University of Pitts­
burgh, Pittsburgh.
Notice
All boys interested in writing on 
the sports staff of the Tartan, con­
tact Donald Watkins, sports editor, 
at the Carnegie Union on Friday 
afternoon, September 4, at 4:30.
Additions Made to 
Intramural Program
In conjunction with the intensi­
fied physical education program, in­
tramural sports are to play an even 
more important part in preparing 
the Tech engineers to meet the high 
physical standards of our armed 
forces. Within the next few days the 
Intramural Board will meet and 
prepare the schedules for touch 
football.
Perhaps the most important 
change in the intramural set-up is 
the practice period through which 
the teams must go before they are 
allowed to compete in any intra­
mural sport. The Department of 
Student Health has announced that 
any team wishing to compete in in­
tramurals must go through two 
weeks of training. In addition, each 
man on any intramural team must 
be examined by the medical de­
partment. The stiff competition and 
the hard playing which accompany 
intramural sports prompted this ac­
tion by the Department of Student 
Health. The benefits which a boy 
might derive from sports may be of 
little avail if he is not in condition. 
For this reason this new ruling was 
inaugurated.
Soccer Practice To 
Get Underway Soon
The 1942 Soccer season will start 
on September 8th with a meeting 
that will be held in the Athletic 
office at 4:30. The first practice be­
gins the following day, Wednesday 
the 9th, at 4:30. Veterans return­
ing to the squad are Don French, 
George Lees, Frank Lucas, Ed Mc- 
Gehee, Nelson Crooks, and Joe 
Dickinson. Coming up from last 
year’s freshman squad are Joe 
Connel, Ted Daniels, Joe Alger, Bob 
Rendleman, and Bill Woollenweber. 
Three more of this group, Howard 
Cartner, Nick Yarn, and Jack Sher­
wood, show great promise
Unfortunately, the expedited pro­
gram prohibits the return of all the 
seniors on the squad. The team 
would surely benefit if the boys 
could return. Those not returning 
are Will Dean, Bob Reisacher, John 
Rhodes, Sam Richley, George Ton- 
dorf, and Ivan Sivachek.
You Must 
Conserve Your
CLOTHES
HELP WIN THE WAR
Regular Cleaning not only keeps you looking tip-top ... it makes 
your clothes last longer! Embedded dirt wears delicate fabrics . . . 
makes fabrics weak . . . don’t take chances.
SUITS—COATS—69c
Cleaned and PressedSLACKS—SWEATERS—35c
Cleaned and Pressed
LADIES’ DRESSES, Cleaned and Pressed............69c
CAMPUS CLEANERS
WE CALL AND DELIVER
4609 Forbes StreetMUseum 1288
i

---------------------------------------------------

Right, A Tau Beta Pi bridge quartet has plenty of kibitzers 
on hand at their picnic at Ogelbay Park.
7/te ^Gniawette
VOLUME 1, NUMBER 1 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA SEPTEMBER 8
Above, Lucille Orr puts her Secretarial edu­
cation to use at the Student Council office.
Left, Nancy Pennabaker and Joe Pash, in the 
approved Arthur Murray style, at the Dorm 
Party at the Union.
Above, Sitting on the steps is always a popular pastime at 
a Tech dance.
Below, Student Council prexy, “Slip” Van Arsdell, evident­
ly enjoys the punch which Whitfield Open House hostess, 
Mary Ellen Smith, is passing out.

---------------------------------------------------

mm
Bclow, With Peg Carver’s moral support, SAEite Ev Call 
demonstrates his super balancing act.
Whitey Moorman, applying his Boy Scout knowledge, at 
the S. A. E. picnic.
Right, above. Bob Deissler’s making no 
complaint whatever about His seating 
position on the Men’s Dorm Hayride 
in July.
Right, Two Dorm picnic-goers ‘look at 
the birdie’ as our photographer clicks 
the shutter.
Below, Sitting on the grass was, as usual, a popular past­
time during the summer months.
-«••tin
Above, Tau Beta Pi members seem to enjoy the grass better 
than the water at Ogelbay Park.

---------------------------------------------------

Heer as seen in his
Above, The Jartanette photographer wasn’t the 
only one on hand with a camera. Doris Berg and 
Mary Ellen Smith are pictured examining the in­
tricate black box.
Above, You’ll have to furnish your own sound 
effects to fully enjoy this picture.
Right, John Horth, President of Men’s Dormitory Council, 
and Judy Clark enjoy the shade at the Senior Fence.
Below, Any time you see four co-eds together, you can bet 
there’s a bridge game in progress, and the Whitfield Hall 
girls were no exceptions this summer.
Above, Steve Harwig in action in the Intramural 
Tennis Tournament. Harwig lost to Frank Show­
man in the finals.

---------------------------------------------------

During July, a thief paid a not-so-cordial visit to the campus looting Skibo and 
several fraternity houses. Athanasius Stosuy, S. A. E.( awoke the next morning 
to forlornly survey an empty wallet.
The Pittsburgh sun, playing no favorites, shown upon in­
structors and students alike. Professors Field, Gilmer, and 
Rockwell are forced to throw coats and dignity aside in the 
interests of comfort.
Profesor Chapman, popular faculty member, follows a ten­
nis match from his favorite vantage point.
Some of the Mechanical Engineers discuss the 
mathematical possibilities of drawing to an in­
side straight.
Photographs for this issue of the Jnrlnncllc were taken by Edward Munyer, 
assisted by Arthur S. Friedman. Tau Beta Pi pictures were by Nelson Crooks. 
Layout and Design was under the supervision of Wallace Sadauskas.
Susanne O’Brien parks her bike in front of 
the Theta Xi house to talk things over with 
George Frey.
