í* j- s T * a «'S /) p , r p /feea r~c/
(Ehp (Jarían
Vol. VIII. No. 29 Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania April 29, 1914
DUAL [RACK MEET 
NEXT SATURDAY
DESIGN THEATRE 
IS DEDICATED
ANNUAL INTERSCHOLASTIC 
MEET ON MAY 9.
The track team, eighteen strong, will 
leave Union station at 1 P. M. Friday 
afternoon for Meadville, where it will 
open the 1914 intercollegiate track sea­
son with a dual meet against Allegheny 
College, the following afternoon. Last 
year’s defeat at the hands of that 
school can be expunged only by a 
decisive victory Saturday.
Owing to the postponement of the 
Inter-school meet, an idea of the 
strength of the Varsity has not yet 
been obtained. But this much can be 
said, that already the team has ex­
perienced its usual run of ill luck. The 
most discouraging feature has been the 
lack of hard practice due to the poor 
condition of the track. Furthermore 
the members of the squad are greatly 
inconvenienced by being compelled to 
wait until a late hour to obtain ever a 
little practice. About 6 or 6:15 o’clock 
after the other athletic teams have had 
their turns on the field, it is then kindly 
given over to the track team. Thirdly, 
probation will prevent one, and per­
haps more, sure point winners from 
competing for Tech this spring.
In spite of these difficulties, how­
ever, Coach Dull hopes to pit a formid­
able combination against Allegheny. 
Some forty men have been entered for 
Saturday’s meet and from this number 
as stated above, eighteen men will be 
chosen for the trip. The coach, man­
ager and trainer, with the runners, will 
make up the party which will leave 
Friday afternoon and return the next 
evening.
Manager Miller is now busily en­
gaged in completing arrangements for 
the annual interscholastic meet held 
under Carnegie’s auspices. The Schen­
ley Oval has been secured to stage this 
monster meet on May 9, Saturday a 
week. Invitations have been extended 
to the leading high schools and pre­
paratory schools in West Virginia, 
Eastern Ohio, and Western Pennsyl­
vania. The event is ever becoming 
more popular in scholastic circles and 
the list of institutions represented this 
year promises to exceed all former 
numbers.
If the weather permits, the Inter­
school meet, postponed last Saturday 
on account of rain, will be run off this 
afternoon.
PLAY PRESENTED IN CELE­
BRATION OF SHAKESPEARE’S 
ANNIVERSARY.
PROGRAM FOR FOUNDER’S 
DAY IS ANNOUNCED.
Andrew Carnegie will be the only 
speaker at the celebration April 30, of 
Founder’s Day at the Institute which 
he established and which bears his 
name. The announcement that he will 
attend the exercises has given the 
celebration an unusual interest, and 
there has been an extraordinary de­
mand for tickets to such an extent that 
the supply of invitations is already ex­
hausted.
The exercises will begin at 4 p. m., 
instead of 2 p. m., as heretofore, the 
later hour having been fixed at the 
request of man}7 business men who 
desire to attend. The committee has 
announced the program as follows: 
Organ—Overture to “Der Freischutz” 
........................................C. M. v. Weber
Invocation—The Rev. Edward S. 
Travers, rector of Trinity Episco­
pal Church.
Orchestra—Overture from “The
Marriage of Figaro”...............Mozart
Tech Schools Orchestra,
J. Vick O’Brien, Director. 
Address—Andrew Carnegie.
Chorus—“The Recessional” .............
................................................. De Koven
Tech Schools Orchestra,
R. J. McDowell, Director. 
Annual Report—“The Progress of
................................................. the Year”
S. H. Church,
Secretary of the Board of Trustees 
Orchestra and Chorus—“Hail, Bright 
Abode” from “Tannhauser”) ....
..................................................... Wagner
Tech Schools Chorus and Orchestra 
Award of prizes for the three best 
paintings in the International Art
Continued on Page 3
The beautiful Design School Theatre 
was formally dedicated last Thursday 
evening, April 23. The students of the 
department of drama produced Shake­
speare’s “Two Gentlemen of Verona” 
under the direction of Thomas Wood 
Stevens and Donald Robertson. There 
was a double significance in the pre­
sentation, as it will usher in what will 
be an annual custom of producing a 
Shakesperean production on the night 
of Shakespeare’s birthday. It was the 
initial effort of the new department. 
The presentation was noteworthy and 
was attended by the trustees and of­
ficers of Carnegie and other disting­
uished guests. While the attendance 
was by invitation only the theater was 
more than filled to its capacity which 
is only 420.
Across the foyer in the Exhibition 
Room the Symphony Orchestra of the 
department of music led by J. Vick 
O’Brien played between acts. The fol­
lowing program was rendered:
Overture ............................ Mendelssohn
Minuet ...................................... Bouherini
Intermezzo ....................... Mendelssohn
Nocturne ............................ Mendelssohn
Spring Song..................... Mendelssohn
Wedding March ........ Mendelssohn
An orchestra of mandolins and 
guitars at the foot of the stage tied 
the scenes of the play together.
The part of the unfortunate and 
happy Valentine was taken by Charles 
Meredith, of Protens by Charles F. 
Steen, and that of the Duke of Milan 
by Frank R. Strayer. Antonio, (father 
to Protens) and Eglamour was taken 
by S. H. Allen. The principal fem­
inine roles were Julia by Doris Wil­
liams; Silvia by Esther R. Fromme; 
Lucetta by Khia Saul Williams; Ur­
sula by Inez M. Krebs and servants 
by Elizabeth Duffy and Florence E. 
Little.
The remainder of the parts: Thurio 
by James W. Gaynor; the Host by 
Charles Lysle; Speed by Leo Beiter; 
Launce by Charles H. Duffy; Pauthino 
by Frank McGuire; Outlaws, N. N. 
Kennedy, M. S. Berry and J. Wood­
man Thompson; a singer, James 
Bruckner and musicians.
The costumes were by the students 
of the Margaret Morrison Carnegie 
School under the supervision of Miss
B. R. Stannard.
The scenery for the production is 
by the students of the School of Ap­
plied Design.
Continued on Page 3

---------------------------------------------------

2Partati
®ltp (Harlan
Published weekly by Undergradu­
ates of the Carnegie Institute of Tech­
nology, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
Business communications should be 
addressed to the BUSINESS MAN­
AGER; all articles should be sent to 
'.he EDITOR-IN-CHIEF.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
Yearly $1.50. 5c per Copy
Entered in the Post Office of Pitts­
burgh as second class matter.
Chas. E. Gilson, ’14. .Editor-in-Chief
G. Guy Kelcey, ’14----Business Mgr.
W. H. Searight, ’16............News Editor
C. B. Kline.....................Athletic Editor
Ruth Gubtil, ’14...M. M. C. S. Editor 
A. H. McGill, ’14...........Science Editor
H. L. Heilman, ’16...Design Editor 
J. M. Parke, ’14.... Industries Editor 
Wm. M. Sheldon, ’15.Exchange Editor
D. L. Mathias, ’14.Staff Photographer 
A. Cowan, ’15...Asst. Business Mgr.
E. S. Rauh, '15..Asst. Athletic Editor
Harold Knight, ’16......................Reporter
P. N. Bossart, ’16........................Reporter
PITTSBURGH, PA., APRIL 29, 1914
FOUNDER’S DAY.
Tomorrow it will be the happy privi­
lege of the students of the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology to join with 
the people of Pittsburgh in commemo­
rating the founding of the Carnegie 
Institute.
Have we ever fully realized how 
fortunate this community is in its 
possession of the library of 350,000 
volumes, the 'eighth largest library 
in the United States, in its Museum1, 
its Department of Fine Arts, its Music 
Hall? And when we think that all 
these opportunities for enjoyment and 
culture were afforded through the gen­
erosity of one man, we may truly feel 
grateful.
Again, the founding of the Institute 
of Technology has been marked by the 
same unending generosity. We have 
never had to know the struggles for 
existence of so many other universi­
ties. The handicaps of small funds, in­
adequate buildings, poor facilities for 
instruction, which most other schools 
of this country have had to overcome 
in their early days, we have been for­
tunate to escape. In eight years we 
have grown to be one of the foremost 
schools in America. Our Industries 
School already leads in its field; the 
Engineering School is gaining a place 
well up toward the front; the Design 
School is ranking with the best in the 
country—and the best are very few; 
the Margaret Morrison School is 
equally successful in its province.
On this occasion, let us resolve that 
the success which we have already at­
tained is not going to suffice for our 
ambition. We must not be content 
to rest on past successes. We know 
that our phenomenal growth has been 
due to the favorable circumstances af­
forded by our Founder. Now it be­
comes our duty to develop; and if we 
do so, having this auspicious start, 
there is no reason why we in future 
years should not lead education in this 
country.
FRATERNITIES.
An especially good editorial on fra­
ternities, which we wish to quote, re­
cently appeared in the Columbia 
Alumni News.
“At Columbia fraternities are prob­
ably more ridiculously secret than at 
any other college or university. At 
Columbia fraternities are probably as 
indispensable as in any institution of 
the land. At Columbia probably fra­
ternities, as such, enter into the life 
and development of the university as 
little as any place on earth. Does not 
this condition demand a little serious 
thought from alumni?
“We have a score and more Greek 
letter societies living in isolation. 
They enter the University life about 
twice a year, when they publish their 
coat of arms in the Columbian, and 
when they give a formal tea in Junior 
week. Sometimes they outstrip this 
record by occupying boxes at the Var­
sity Show and unfurling a few ban­
ners. But that is all. The rest is 
mystery. The non-fraternity man, a 
very substantial person at Columbia, 
may well gasp and stare at these broth­
erly organizations and conclude that 
their benefits are neither for him nor 
the University; for he and it are not 
members of the clan.
“Just what does happen in these 
twenty odd houses where congregate 
some of the college’s picked men 
throughout their academic career? Is 
there anything to be shrouded except 
some semi-mystic rites cribbed mainly 
from' the Masons and the Bible? We 
think not. Wc think there is much to 
be laid bare, to the advantage of the 
fraternities and of the University. We 
think segregation generates pardon­
able suspicion in the mind of the man 
beyond the pale and indurates a class 
clash which is unnecessary in the stu­
dent body and harmful to the college 
morale! Secrecy makes an organiza­
tion either feared and revered or de­
rided and disliked. Columbia fra­
ternities will do well to take an intro­
spective inventory of their titles to 
reverence and awe.
“The fact is the Columbia chapters 
should play the game with vizors up. 
In other colleges the campus paper 
publishes a list of the pledges. Why 
doesn’t Spectator? In other colleges 
the campus paper gives an account of 
fraternity dances, smokers, teas, house 
parties. Why doesn’t Spectator? In 
other colleges the whole activity of the 
Hellenists, their acquisition of new 
homes, their inter-chapter athletic con­
tests, their inter-fraternity agreements 
and conferences, are part and parcel 
of the institution’s interests, accorded 
place beside sports and administrative 
affairs. On the rare occasions when 
Spectator mentions one of these things 
the comment is sneaked furtively onto 
an inside page as if to indicate that 
it intends to commit no offense.
“All this is not in criticism of Spec­
tator, though indeed it can do much to 
lead off a reform. We but wish to
indicate the stupid custom that has 
saddled itself on the Columbia bodies 
and makes them mere extra-University 
entities, supporting the college as indi­
viduals, as corporate bodies, disdain­
ful and aloof.
“Perhaps it is this continual dwell­
ing in darkness which makes us feel 
that our fraternities have not adopted 
the ideal of service. A leading official 
in the city administration, analyzing 
the fraternity unrest throughout the 
country and looking for a remedy, 
finds it in the ideal of service. He 
is reflecting on a plan to set up a 
catholic aspiration of community use­
fulness for the fraternity world, a 
scheme which will bring the thou­
sands of Greek letter men in our col­
leges to a conception and a religion 
of devotion to public service. At 
present he finds their motto service 
to themselves.
“How many Morningside fraterni­
ties put service to the University ahead 
of aggrandizement for themselves? 
Chapter alumni who read these lines 
will know. Can not the fraternities 
do much more to co-operate with the 
Deans and Faculty in the matter of 
scholarship? Can they not assist coach 
and manager in holding the men to 
training? Can they not add to the 
human life of the campus by less 
puerile privacy ov< r their social af­
fairs? Can they not open their houses 
to campus purposes, to a meeting of a 
club or committee? To a dinner party 
of a society where non-fraternity men 
and men of many fraternities may sit 
unawkwardly side by side, and feel 
that a fraternity, too, is part of the 
college? And—this is revolutionary 
enough—can not our fraternities un­
bend a little more to the “barb,” in­
vite him to their dances, even occa­
sionally give a smoker solely in his 
honor, so that all may realize that a 
fraternity badge has no monopoly on 
human pleasure and no quarrel with 
thoughtful courtesy?
“The alumnus who cares about his 
fraternity and thinks of his alma mater 
will go back to his chapter and speak 
for the correction of Columbia fratern­
ity faults. When our fraternities be­
come less exclusive, when we read in 
Spectator that Beta Theta Pi has 
pledged so and so, that tomorrow a 
meeting of Varsity debaters will take 
place in the Psi Upsilon house, that 
twenty couples attended the “Deke” 
dance last night, that Theta Delta Chi 
and Delta Tau Delta are going to 
“swap” smokers, we shall feel that fra­
ternities are not such mysterious 
ogres, after all, and that they play a 
helpful role in Columbia University 
life.”
The fraternity question has never 
been a serious one at Carnegie, but 
we must all realize that it may easily 
become one. In the absence of dor­
mitories, the fraternity house furnishes 
practically the only taste of college 
life to be found here. For this reason, 
if for no other, the fraternity must be 
careful to avoid any suggestion of ex­
clusiveness; it must make it an aim 
to contribute to the social life not only 
of its own members but also of the 
non-fraternity men in school. It is a 
question whether the fraternity will 
Continued on Page 3
DIRECTORY
ATHLETICS.
Football—F. C. McCaughey, Capt.
F. L. Rownd,
5141 Woodland Ave. 
Baseball—W. K. Hall, Capt.,
W. F. Routh, Mgr.
5437 Aylesboro St.
Basketball—
W. T. Criswell, Capt.
W. F. Wright, Mgr.,
311 McKee Place.
Track—E. L. Clair, Capt.
Wm. Miller, Mgr.
Tennis—
G. Douthett, Capt.
R. S. Wilson, Mgr.
Students’ Advertising Bureau—
G. G. Kelcey, Mgr.
Room 1, Industries Bldg.,
9167-J Schenley.
Student Activities Committee—
N. A. Hollister, President.
W. M. Sheldon, Sec’y & Treas. 
5137 Woodlawn Ave. 
SOCIETIES 
Musical Clubs—
L. R. Madison, Pres.
N. A. Hollister, Mgr.
5137 Woodlawn Ave. 
Seannachie—E. L. Clair, Pres 
Carnegie Band—H. E. Gumbart, Mgr.,
310 Oakland Ave.
Mho Club—W. C. Sontum, Pres. 
Mechanical Club—
J. B. Patterson, President- 
White Friars—
J. A. Cameron, Pres.
G. W. Gilpin,
5557 Beeler St.
Tech Studio Club—
H. B. Pearce, Pres.
T. A. C.—J. B. Hayes, Pres.
C. E. Society—
Al. H. Woods, Pres.
Fulcrum Club—
E. W. Gaylord, Pres.
Crucible Club—W. J. Corbett, Pres.
CLUBS AND FRATERNITIES. 
Sigma Tau—5141 Woodlawn Ave.
Schenley 9167-J.
Sigma Rho—3400 Iowa St.
Schenley 9022-J.
Beta Theta Epsilon—
5437 Aylesboro Ave. 
Schenley 2508 
Xi Sigma Upsilon—
311 McKee Place.
Schenley 9253.
Zeta Lambda Epsilon—
237 N. Dithridge St.,
9053 Schenley.
Pi Chapter, Theta Xi—
3890 Grant Blvd.
Schenley, 9143.
Woodlawn Club—
5137 Woodlawn Ave.
Schenley 9020.
Alumni Ass’n of Applied Science 
and Design—
W. H. Rieger, Sec. & Treas., 
Room 204 Applied Industries Bldg. 
Carnegie Institute of Technology. 
Student Senates—
Design—A. H. Neal, Pres.
Industries—Thomas Fish, Pres. 
Athletic Board of Control—
J. J. Doherty, Pres.
A. D. Beeken, Jr., Sec’y.
C. I. T. Orchestra—
G. C. Smith, Pres.
H. E. Gumbart, Mgr.,
310 Oakland Ave.

---------------------------------------------------

ütye (Tartan3
BENNETT'S
Oar Saits at $20, $22.50 and $25
Every dressy effect that dressy men admire. And remember none 
but all wool cloths and pure worsteds.
We’re making a specialty of Spring Suits at those prices—want 
to prove to you that “Bennett Means Best”.
Keep tab on the special proposition we have for Tech Boys
J* G. Bennett & Co*
Editorials
Continued from Page 2
be able to hold its place here when 
dormitories do come. If the fraternity 
is exclusive, we do not believe it can. 
It must make its aims correspond to 
those of the school; it must realize 
that there are just as good men among 
the “barbs” as to be found in the 
fraternity; it ’must strive to serve its 
Alma Mater, rather than its own self­
ish interests; it must be less secretive 
and exclusive in its social affairs; it 
must co-operate with the school au­
thorities; it must support the athletics 
of the institution; in short, to be what 
a fraternity ought to be, it must feel 
a brotherhood for every man in the 
institution, and must take an active 
interest in every phase of school life 
and activity.
THE DESIGN SCHOOL DANCE.
The Roman Dress Ball given by the 
Design School on the evening of the 
opening performance of the Theatre 
was a great success. It was one of 
the most brilliant affairs that has ever 
been held here. The dance was dis­
tinctive of the Design School and held 
the same relation to that school as the 
stag dances did to the Science School. 
The decorations were exceedingly 
pretty and the music was of the best. 
Every department was well represent­
ed but it is hoped that many more will 
be present at the next, as a school 
affair can only be made an entire suc­
cess by having every student of that 
school present. W. H. S.
THOMAS WOOD STEVENS, AU­
THOR AND DIRECTOR OF 
PAGEANT.
To Be Held in St. Louis in May.
The St. Louis pageant, which will 
commemorate the founding of the city 
one hundred and fifty years ago by 
Pierre Laclede, has been written and 
is to be staged by Thomas Wood 
Stevens, head of the department of 
drama of Carnegie Institute of Tech­
nology. This remarkable pageant or 
historical play is one of the largest 
ever staged, having 7500 citizens of 
the city taking part, and is to be pre­
sented in a natural amphitheater at 
Forest Park. It is a purely civic af­
fair, produced by the disinterested ef­
forts of the citizens and quite without 
any element of commercialism.
The pageant consists of three move­
ments or acts, in each of which a num­
ber of episodes will be depicted. The 
first scene shows the mound builders 
at work laboriously constructing the 
mound under the direction of priests 
and medicine men according to an 
ancient cerenvonial. These are fol­
lowed by the Indians of the later time 
—the tribes which were known to the 
European exployers. They set up 
their wigwams, establish their villages 
and fight their battles. Next come the 
explorers; De Soto first, with his cav­
alcade of Spanish gold-seekers; then 
the French with Joliet, Pere Marquette 
and finally La Salle.
The second movement shows the 
coming of Laclede, and the early set­
tling of the city by the French; the 
interval of Spanish regime, the attack 
by the British and Indians in 1780 and 
the Louisiana Purchase.
The last movement, which will take 
place just at twilight, shows the pro­
cession of the pioneers with Lewis, 
Clark and Boone and the long train of 
wagons, horses and oxen. Then comes 
the development of the city through 
the first half of the nineteenth cen­
tury, which brings the pageant to a 
close.
At the close of the pageant which is 
at sunset, there will follow a poetic 
masque, written and staged by Percy 
Mackaye, which shall indicate by sym­
bolism and allegory the larger and 
more universal meanings which under­
lie the pageant. In the masque the 
historical action of the pageant will 
be analized and the various forces be­
hind it symbolized by such figures 
as Cahokia—who stands for the as­
pirations of the Indians;—Saint Louis 
and the War Demon.
Mr. Stevens, aside from Mr. Mack­
aye, will be assisted by Frederick S. 
Converse, writer of music for masque, 
and Joseph Linden Smith, pageant 
master, who will stage the masque. He 
is also assisted by archeologists, whom 
he describes as “detectives of the 
past,” historians, poets and artists, 
who will sort out of the great mass of 
available historical material, that which 
can be most effectively interpreted on 
a scale “new to the means of pageant­
ry.” Mr. Stevens sees remarkable op­
portunities in the task before him. 
“The great size of the stage,” he says, 
“and the wonderful amphitheater, far 
larger than the most magnificent thea­
ters of the Greeks, bring in new diffi­
culties in production.
Mr. Stevens has written a large 
number of pageants and plays with the 
greatest of success. Carnegie may 
be congratulated on having such a per­
sonality in our midst.
SCIENCE SOPH. GAME.
Despite a weighty schedule of stud­
ies the Science Sophomores have or­
ganized baseball teams which bid fair 
to make the class championship a hard 
struggle. The Electricals, leading as 
usual, will play their first game Found­
er’s Day afternoon at 3:00 P. M. sharp, 
probably at Tech Field, if arrange­
ments can be made. This game with 
the Chemicals will likely have the fol­
lowing line-up:
Electricals: Ettele c, Wolgemuth p, 
Doherty ss, Gower 1st, Stevenson 2nd, 
Bauer 3rd, Einstein r. f., Minor c. f., 
Drummond 1. f.
Chemicals: Caplan c, Boak p, Farr ss, 
Parthum 1st, Stein 2nd, Bischoff 3rd, 
Williams r. f., W, W. Trautman c. f., 
Hays 1. f.
Bat-boy, Wolf, Katzman; water-boy, 
Spiegleman.
Other sections desiring games 
should see Manager Wm. Stein of the 
Chemicals, and temporarily, P. N. Bos- 
sart, of the Electricals.
Founder’s Day Program
Continued from Page 1
Exhibition of 1914—W. N. Frew, 
president of the Board of Trustees. 
Organ—“Military March” ..Schubert 
Charles Heinroth.
It will be noted that in addition to 
the two attractive organ pieces to be 
played by Mr. Heinroth, there will be 
one selection played by the orchestra 
from1 the Carnegie Tech Schools, and 
a choral sung by the students of the 
schools, and after that a chorus with 
orchestra accompaniment by the in­
strumental and vocal classes together. 
This is the first time that the musical 
talent of the schools has been placed 
on a Founder’s Day program.
The international exhibition of paint­
ings will be opened at 6 p. m. on 
Founder’s Day, and is declared by the 
members of the international jury to 
be the finest annual representation of 
modern painting that has been gath­
ered together at any place in the world.
The museum’ will have several new 
groups of animals that have been 
mounted by R. H. Santens, the taxi­
dermist, besides other interesting ob­
jects to be displayed for the first time 
on Founder’s Day.
The day will close with a dinner giv­
en by the Founder’s Day Committee 
at the Pittsburgh Golf Club, at 7:30 
p. m., in honor of Mr. and Mrs. Car­
negie.—Gazette Times.
Indiana.
The alumni and students of Indiana 
have petitioned the trustees that the 
next building erected with the funds 
derived from the tax for the use of the 
University be a men’s gymnasium.
Students at Harvard are agitating a 
new gymnasium. Hemenway gym has 
a capacity of 200 men a day, which 
compared to other universities, is 
considered inadequate.
Varsity football players at Prince­
ton have been forbidden to write, or 
have their names signed, to sporting 
articles in metropolitan newspapers. 
The practice was deemed to border too 
closely on the professional.
O. S. U. will hold noon classes next 
year to afford additional facilities.
Design Theatre is Dedicated
Continued from Page 1
The setting for Julia’s House wa^ 
designed by Louise Miller Boyer; for 
Antonio’s House, by Florence Estelle 
Little; for the Duke’s House, by J. 
Richards Woodruff; for the Street be­
fore the Abbey, and the Forest, by J. 
Woodman Thompson; and Silvia’s 
Garden, by J. Woodman Thompson 
and J. Richard Woodruff.
The Tech Theater is in the School 
of Applied Design and is one of the 
most beautiful theatres ever built, be­
ing entirely of hard wood, hand carved 
and inlaid, in natural finish. The ceil­
ing is of specially designed plaster 
ornament and stained glass. The seats 
of leather and hard wood, likewise 
hand carved and inlaid. The lighting 
effects are beautiful although not yet 
completed as is the entire theater. The 
curtain is of steel, weighing about five 
tons and is one of the few of its kind 
in this country. The stage is fully 
equipped with the latest lighting appa­
ratus and scene shifting devices.
The decorative panels were painted 
by James Monroe Hewlett, Arthur T. 
Hewlett and Charles Bosing, all of 
New York. The subject of the large 
central panel or curtain is Rome. At 
the left of this are three smaller pan­
els illustrative of Egypt, Assyria and 
Greece, and on the right three illus­
trative of Byzantium, the Middle 
Ages and the Renaissance. The selec­
tion of Rome for the center and larg­
est panel is due, not merely to its 
chronological position, but especially 
to its significance as forming the con­
necting link between ancient and mod­
ern art. The architectural and sculp­
tural fragments which have been se­
lected for these compositions are rep­
resentative of their periods, typifying 
the development of the arts through 
the changing centuries.
In honor of Shakespeare three hun­
dred and fiftieth birthday a wreath was 
placed on the heroic sized statue of t e 
famous bard which stands in front of 
Carnegie Institute. The wreath was 
placed there by the students of the 
department of drama of Tech.
The play was reproduced on last 
Friday evening for the benefit of the 
students of the four schools and on 
Saturday night for the faculty.
We recommend the merchants advertising in the Tartan as the best in town. They will give you the best prices and quality.

---------------------------------------------------

Qílír Saríatt
MRS. ANDREW CARNEGIE
1 M. M. C. S. NEWS i
THE PAN-HELLENIC DANCE 
POSTPONED.
ROMAN FESTIVAL AND DANCE.
Gorgeous Affair Held in Design 
School
The Pan Hellenic Society of M. M. 
C. S. have found it advisable to post­
pone their annual dance from May 
first until May fifteenth.
DR. DAVISON SPEAKS TO 
ASSEMBLY.
Tuesday, April 21, Dr. Davison, su­
perintendent of the Pittsburgh Public 
Schools, addressed the students of 
the M. M. C. S. at assembly. Know­
ing that the majority of the pupils are 
intending to become teachers, he ad­
dressed his lecture principally to them, 
telling of the growth in the point of 
view of good teachers and the various 
stages that she must pass through be­
fore reaching the height of the teach­
ing profession.
DR. BRASHEAR VISITS M. M. C. S.
Wednesday afternoon, April 22, Dr. 
Brashear made a hurried trip through 
M. M. C. S. but was able to give a 
short talk on colored combination to 
the Seniors who are taking the teach­
ers’ course.
Dr. Brashear returned to the school 
Friday and in assembly spoke 
to the students about the advantages 
that they were having and the good 
he hoped the graduates would do in 
this world.
WE HAVE THE NEW ONES IN SHOES
STOEBENER
Man with the Shoes
6227 Penn Ave. East End. 6222 Frankstown Ave.
City Office 
631 Penn Avenue
East End Office
S. Highland Ave. and Baum StreetOswald Werner & Sons Co.
Pittsburgh's Oldest and Largest Dyeing and Cleaning Works
New Private Branch Exchange, Call Hiland I 138 
Main Office and Works: Cor. Bryant, St. Clair and Mellon Sts. 
“A NATIONAL INSTITUTION”Browning, King & Co.
CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS AND HATS FOR MEN BOYS AND CHILDREN 
439-441 WOOD STREET
The Roman Festival and Dance held 
in the Design School last Thursday 
evening, April 23, was the most suc­
cessful of the year, far surpassing the 
expectation of all. The festival is the 
first of its kind held in Carnegie, the 
idea originating with Mr. Hornbostel.
The tables of the architectural 
draughting room were removed and 
the room tastefully decorated, being 
a mass of color, in streamers and 
lights, which gave a feeling to the af­
fair which has never been equalled 
here. The students of every depart­
ment of Design School were present 
in gorgeously colored Roman cos­
tumes which added brilliancy to the 
gathering. A plentiful supply of con­
fetti and serpentines produced a minia­
ture Mardi Gras. It may be noted here 
that each and every student present 
designed and made his or her own cos­
tume, stimulating an interest which 
would have been lacking otherwise.
The music was furnished by Nirella’s 
Orchestra which was placed in the 
center of the room, giving a complete 
and easy circulation to the dancers. 
During the evening various Roman 
frolics were indulged in.
After the performance of the “Two 
Gentlemen of Verona” in the Design 
Theatre which was formally opened 
that evening, a Grand March was held. 
It led from the draughting room 
down into the main foyer. Several 
dances were held here when the stu­
dents and guests returned to the room 
above where the festival continued. 
During the evening refreshments were 
served by a prominent caterer.
Continued on Page 8
Carnegie Institute of 
Technology: Pittsburgh
The Carnegie Institute of Technology consists of four separate 
schools, each with its own faculty, buildings and student body. 
School of Applied Science. Offers courses in chemical, civil, 
commercial, electrical, mechanical, metallurgical, mining and 
sanitary engineering, leading to the degree of Bachelor of Science. 
School of Applied Design. Offers courses in architecture» 
decoration, illustration, painting and music, open to both men 
and women, leading to the degree of Bachelor of Arts. 
Margaret Morrison Carnegie School. For women. Offers 
courses in household economies, secretarial work, costume 
economies, home arts and crafts and teachers’ courses, leading 
to the degree of Bachelor of Science. 
School of Applied Industries. Offers industrial courses in 
machine construction, building construction, general equipment 
and installation. Short courses are offered in the various trades. 
Also a course for the training of industrial teachers, leading to 
the degree of Bachelor of Science in Vocational Education. 
Night Courses. The four schools offer night courses in 
practically all of the above subjects to provide educational oppor­
tunities for those who are at work during the day. 
For Further Information Address 
Registrar, Carnegie Institute of Technology
Sophomores at Chicago University 
have approved of the plan of selecting 
class numeral pipes during the second 
year instead of waiting until the senior
Boston Tech has just' completed the 
annual four-day run of its electrical 
plant by the Senior Mechanicals, Elec­
trical, Naval, Architectural and Marine 
Students.year.
We recommend the merchants advertising in the Tartan as the best in town. They will give you the best prices and quality.

---------------------------------------------------

Œlje ©aria«D
THE PRECEPTORIAL SYSTEM 
AT BOWDOIN.
The preceptorial method of collegi­
ate instruction inaugurated by Presi­
dent Wilson at Princeton University 
almost ten years ago has so amply 
proved its efficiency at that institu­
tion that a number of others have been 
led to adopt it either wholly or in 
part. The greatest drawback to its 
further adoption is the expense which 
it entails. It requires a substantial 
increase in the teaching force. Suc­
cessful preceptors must be men of 
high ability, sound training, and cult­
ure. These can not be obtained with­
out good salaries, as the salaries of 
college teachers go, yet the yield of 
the system in intellectual development 
and increased power among the stu­
dents more than repays the cost of 
maintaining it if this cost can in any 
way be borne.
The testimony of Bowdoin College, 
which has recently put the system into 
operation, furnishes renewed confirma­
tion of its value. Says President 
Hyde:
“Our chief enrichment of the curri­
culum has been the introduction of the 
preceptorial method of teaching in an­
cient, modern, European, and Ameri­
can history; European and American 
Government; and English literature. 
In these courses the class is divided 
for the third hour not into quiz sec­
tions of 20 or 25, but into conference 
sections of 5 or 6. A quiz section is 
merely a small class, and its aim is to 
show the instructor what the student 
does and does not know. A confer­
ence is a group of individuals; its aim 
is to show the student how the instruc­
tor thinks and feels about those as­
pects of the subject in which the indi­
vidual student can be induced to take 
personal interest. It costs double in 
money, time, and labor, but bears 
fruit four-fold in vitality, responsibil­
ity, and scholarly ambition. The con­
summation of this preceptorial meth­
od is the establishment of courses 
limited to a very few of the best stu­
dents, who work with their professors 
in an intimacy and freedom impossible 
in large promiscuous classes. Such a 
course limited to ten students studies 
municipal government in New Eng­
land cities and towns. A course in 
English composition limited to the 
best six writers in college, with six 
professors to teach them, has proved 
a great stimulus to the literary inter­
est of those who receive this natural 
reward of literary power. Giving the 
most vital and costly instruction to 
limited numbers of those who prove 
most competent to profit by it is not 
inconsistent with democratic equality 
of opportunity freely offered to all, and 
such fostering of an intellectual aris­
tocracy is essential if a college is to 
develop real scholars.”
The better to carry out this method 
Bowdoin has also put itself in line with 
the movement to raise the salaries of 
college teachers. For some time its 
policy has been to select its instructors 
and professors from among the best 
trained and most promising young 
men of the country, to pay them high 
salaries, and to promote them rapidly
even at the risk of having them called 
away early. Now it proposes to de­
vote the whole of $600,000, ultimately 
to be raised from bequests that have 
been made, to increasing salaries, so 
that it may retain permanently the 
services of these young men.
Bureau of Education.
True ValuesB. & B.True Values
GROWTH OF A MODERN 
UTILITY.
An interesting lecture was delivered 
before the student body of the School 
of Applied Industries under the sub­
ject, “The Growth of a Modern Util­
ity.” The lecture was illustrated and 
showed the development of the Bell 
telephone system from its genesis to 
the wonderfully complete system' of 
today. The lecturer, Mr. C. H. Leh­
man, district manager, was a very flu­
ent speaker and held the undivided 
attention of the audience. Mr. J. K. 
Martin, superintendent of the local 
telephone plant, was also on hand to 
answer questions.
A clever and fascinating feature of 
the pictures was a call from Denver 
to New York in which all the opera­
tions involved was shown. This cre­
ated considerable enthusiasm among 
the students and judging from the ap­
plause the “Chicago telephone girls” 
were the favorites. The lecture was 
repeated before the night students on 
the following evening, with Mr. 
Brooks as the lecturer.
PATRIOTIC SONGS AT THE 
ASSEMBLY.
Patriotic singing was the order of 
the day at the weekly meeting of the 
Student Assembly of the School of 
Applied Industries on last Wednes­
day. An account of the Mexican situ­
ation was read by R. K. Merker and 
this occasioned the outburst of patriot-
NIGHT FRATERNITY MEN 
BANQUET.
About twenty members of the Delta 
Sigma Fraternity, consisting of alumni 
and students of the Night School of 
Applied Industries, held their annual 
banquet at the Monongahela House 
on Saturday evening. The speakers 
and guests of honor were Dean Con- 
nelley and F. J. Hartman. Burd J. 
Patterson, the retiring president, act­
ed as toastmaster. The officers of the 
organization are:
C. E. McCausland, president.
H. O. Waechter, vice president.
J. J. Alpern, secretary.
E. F. Nash, treasurer.
Harvard.
In the future coaches and graduates 
will be barred from the players’ bench 
of the Harvard baseball team. It was 
the desire of the committee on ath­
letics that the team should be thrown 
upon its own responsibility, and tliat 
the exigencies of the game should be 
met by the captain instead of by the 
coaches.
far caps at lowest prices
For style, quality and durability you can depend on any cap 
purchased here.
We carry only reliable goods and the prices are the lowest quoted 
anywhere.Boggs UA Buhl,
Pittsburgh, Penn’a.
EVENTFUL WEEK FOR MUSI­
CAL CLUBS.
Concerts were given at Beaver, 
Tuesday, April 21st; New Castle, 
Thursday; Youngstown, Friday, and 
Butler Saturday nights of last week.
A large crowd at First Baptist 
Church, Beaver, Pa., greeted the 
clubs and scattered throughout 
the audience were many Tech men 
and Alumni who made encores more 
frequent. ,
The week end trip started with New 
Castle High, Thursday night, where 
the clubs entertained a small sized 
audience. Most of the men made use 
of the hours between trains at the 
Y. M. C. A. where the doors were 
thrown open to them.
Friday morning at 10 o’clock the 
special on the Mahoning and Shen- 
ango railroad carried the chaps to 
Youngstown, Ohio. The men were 
treated to lunch and dinners at Salons 
Hofbrau. One large table was set for 
all. Here patriotic songs were sung, 
as war news was on the tongues of 
everybody. The concert was given 
before 1600 people at the Central 
Christian Church and was so thor­
oughly enjoyed that they made us 
promise to come again next year. This 
was the largest audience outside of 
our Home concert crowd, the clubs 
have appeared before this year.
The final concert of the trip was 
given under the auspices of the Pro­
tective Home Circle at Woodman 
Hall, Butler, Pa. The men reached 
there via Harmony route at 5:30 Sat­
urday night and immediately set down 
to a fine supper given by the order. 
The men woke up the town by giving 
a few yells on the public square just 
before the concert. The crowd was 
not very large but the concert put on 
was one of the best of the season. 
The Glee Club Octette was used there 
and created immense amount of ex­
citement.
Coming back to Pittsburgh on the 
special car of the Harmony Route the 
clubs were entertained by moving pic­
tures. Some of the men had learned 
that one of the reels was of western 
style so they provided themselves with 
repeating cap pistols before starting. 
The effect was very real, however, and 
added considerably to the exciting 
situation.
The old system of using a heated 
iron and dirty cloth presses the grime 
and dirt into your garments. Our 
sanitary machine steams it all out, and 
removes permanently the dirt, per­
spiration, odor and grime. See Shu­
man, the Dry Cleaner, 3911 Forbes 
street.—Adv.
BRACE BROS. 
LAUNDRY
BENTON AVENUE 
WILKINSBURG
Beil Phone, Wilkins 23
Oakland
Savings &. Trust Co.
T*he Oakland Bank
VANADIUM BUILDING
Capita! $200,000.00 
Surplus $200,000.00 
Deposits over $1,700,000,00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES1
The Hotel Schenley 
Barber Shop
solicits your patronage. Our service is 
second to none at the regular prices
M. J. Chemoff, Proprietor.
THE D. L. AULD CO.
MANUFACTURING JEWELERS 
AND STATIONERS 
Colunbus, B>s!on, Philadelphia, Chicago, Pittsburgh 
FRATERNITY BADGES, CLASS PINS AND RINGS 
ENGRAVED INVITATIONS 
DANCE PROGRAMS
REGINALD TUTHILL 
Representative for Penna. Bell, Hiland I 121 —R
P. O. Box 984 PITTSBURGH, PA.
“Where All the Young 
Men Go”
C. A. HEIMERT
HATTER AND HABERDASHER 
3614 Forbes Street 
Iroquois Block
Will class presidents for 1913-1914 please 
call and see us at an early date.
18821914
R. E. JACQUES, Teacher
of Dancing and Deportment 
COR. CRAIG AND FORBES STREETS 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Bell Phone 91 24-R Schenley 
Vice President of the International Association 
Masters of Dancing
We recommend the merchants advertising in the Tartan as th e best in town. They will give you the best prices and quality.

---------------------------------------------------

6Stye (Eartatt
THE GYMNASIUM EXHIBITION 
POSTPONED.
The gymnasium classes that were 
to have given their annual exhibition 
at M. M. C. S. April 24, have post­
poned it until May 6th and 7th. The 
exhibition will include the Plebe and 
Sophomore gymnasium and dancing 
classes besides special classes.
THE NATIONAL COLLEGIATE 
ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION.
Report of Committee on College 
Baseball.
The charter of your committee is 
found in action taken by this Asso­
ciation at the evening session one year 
ago when it was voted that the chair­
man “appoint a committee of three to 
consider what measures the Associa­
tion may take to rid baseball of its 
objectionable features.”
Their instructions are found in the 
opening address of President Briggs 
at the morning session, and in his ad­
mirable article on “Amateur and Pro­
fessional Sportsmanship in Baseball,” 
published in Spalding’s Official Col­
lege Baseball Annual for 1913, pp. 5 
and 7.
Your committee has for the time 
being nothing to do with the difficult 
question of eligibility, nor with sum­
mer ball in its relation to amateur 
sport. It is concerned with what is 
appropriate and desirable in the con­
duct of the game itself, in order that 
the manners of officials, players, and 
spectators may be uniformly those of 
gentlemen, where the highest ideals 
of fairness am' sportmanship shall be 
maintained, a3 is so admirably done 
in intercollegiate tennis.
We do not think that anything 
should be recommended which would 
diminish the virility of the game, or 
lessen the scope of individual skill, 
or of clever team work, but we earn­
estly contend that strategy must not 
deteriorate into trickery, and that the 
rules of the game must be observed, 
not only in letter but in spirit as well.
To this end yoúr committee rec­
ommends :
First. The strict enforcement of 
rule 58 of the official Rule Book, 
which defines the coaching rules at 
first and third bases, explicitly pro­
viding that “the coacher shall be re­
stricted to coaching the base runner 
only, and shall not address remarks 
except to the base runner, and then 
only in words of assistance and direc­
tion in running bases. He shall not 
by words or signs incite or try to in­
cite the spectators to demonstrations, 
and shall not use language which will 
in any manner refer to or reflect upon 
a player of the opposite club, the um­
pire or spectator.”
Second. The strict enforcement of 
rule 21, par. 1, which explicitly pro­
vides that “under no circumstance 
shall the umpire permit any person 
except the players and substitutes in 
uniform and the manager of the team 
entitled to its use to be seated on a 
bench.” This rule places the profes­
sional coach or trainer among the 
spectators, where he should be dur­
ing the actual progress of the game,
and places the responsibility for the 
conduct of the play in the hands of 
the amateur players themselves.
Third. The strict enforcement by 
the umpire of the rules forbidding 
“blocking a runner,” “prying a run­
ner off the base,” and the like, as 
unfair practice, and we appeal to stu­
dent public opinion to condemn such 
trickery, making it impossible even 
should it elude the vigilance of the 
umpire. Such sharp practice is ex­
plicitly prohibited by the rules, and 
an attempt surreptitiously to trans­
gress them is as unsportsmanlike as it 
would be for a tennis player, hoping 
to escape detection, to deliver his 
service from an unlawful position.
We recommend further that in pur­
suance of the spirit of the rules, 
boards of athletic control and facul­
ties of colleges and universities, band­
ed together to promote a healthy 
growth and a wise control of student 
athletics, adopt and enforce the fol­
lowing specific regulations:
First. The catcher shall not, during 
actual play, speak at all to the bats­
man, except where occasion requires 
a bona fide word of caution, and in 
speaking to the pitcher he shall not 
use words reflecting, or calculating to 
reflect, upon the batsman or any mem­
ber of the opposing team.
Second. No member of either team 
shall call or shout during the game to 
any member of the opposing team, ex­
cept to caution him against some dan­
ger, nor behave in any indecorous or 
unseemljr manner.
Third. There shall be no oral coach­
ing from the bench.
Fourth. The so-called “encourage­
ment of the pitcher” from the out­
field shall be stopped, or at least mini­
mized since we believe that the shout­
ing of remarks in endless iteration is 
not only disagreeable to the specta­
tors, but is disconcerting rather than 
helpful to the pitcher. In general, it 
amounts merely to senseless noise, 
and is quite unworthy of college-bred 
men. Whatever “encouragement” or 
“support” the pitcher may need can be 
quietly given from the infield.
Fifth. The umpire shall warn any 
player violating any of these rules, 
and on a second offense shall exclude 
him1 from the game.
Sixth. That in general the atten­
tion of students be called to the im­
portance of courtesy on the part of 
the home institution to the visiting 
team, a courtesy which will forbid 
such cheering, singing, or chatter as 
are designed at critical moments to 
“rattle” the visiting team.
A baseball game is a splendid con­
test of skill between two opposing 
nines, before an academic throng of 
spectators; it is not a contest between 
a visiting team and a local team assist­
ed by a disorderly rabble. It is delight­
ful when, as often happens, a fine play 
by the visiting team is as heartily ap­
plauded as a similar play by the home 
team.
To the end that these principles, if 
endorsed by this Association, be a real 
force and not a mere brutum fulmen, 
we recommend that, if adopted, this 
report be printed in separate form,
and copies be sent by the secretary 
to the presidents, the deans, the ath­
letic directors or similar officers, the 
chairman of faculty committees on ath­
letic sports, and to the editors of un­
dergraduate publications of all col­
leges and universities, and also to the 
leading preparatory schools, in the 
United States, with a formal request 
for action thereon, and a report of 
such action to the secretary of the 
Association.
Louis Bevier, Jr., Chairman.
RAIN SPOILS CHANCES OF 
GAME.
Westminster Here Saturday.
Rain prevented the game last Satur­
day with Washington and Jefferson, at 
Washington, and gave the nine an­
other week to prepare for the next col­
legiate game. Whether the game will 
be played off or not has not been ar­
ranged, but it is probable that there 
will be difficulty in selecting a date.
On next Saturday, May 2, at 2 P. 
M. Westminister will appear on Tech 
Field. This will be the first home 
game under the home management, as 
the Pitt contest was staged on our 
field under their management. For 
this reason, if for no other, there 
should be a large crowd of Carnegie’s 
rooters to help the team along.
Grove City will be played at home 
on Wednesday, May 6. The Red and 
White usually make it hard for our 
team, and the game should be a stiff 
interesting one. As it is a mid-week 
contest it will be called at 4 o’clock.
THE GRAND.
Forty-five minutes of musical com­
edy—a complete Broadway show in a 
single act—will be the attraction par 
excellence in next week’s program of 
vaudeville in the Grand Opera House. 
It is Jessy Lasky’s “The Red Heads.”
THE ALVIN.
The Aborn English Grand Opera 
Company which has given Pittsburgh 
two Spring seasons of excellent grand 
opera productions will make their 
third annual visit to the Alvin Theatre 
beginning Monday May 4th.
The first week at the Alvin will be 
devoted to Bizet’s brilliant master­
piece “Carmen,” with- a double cast of 
principals dividing the eight perform­
ances of the week. There will be eight 
performances each week including the 
usual six nights and matinees on Wed­
nesdays and Saturdays.
STANDISHÄ
(EEhpCOLLAR 2for25+
Cluett Peabody if Cq.lnc. Makers
Sporting Goods, Cutlery, 
College Pennants, 
Banners and Pillow Tops.
HUKILl HUNTER (0.
4i4 Wood Street.
BELL PHONE 239 SCHENLEYWeber Express & Storage Co.
Moving, Packing and Storing of 
Furniture and Pianos. General Hauling 
Baggage to and from Depot
4616-18-20 Henry St., Pittsburgh, Pa
fLOWERSfOR ALL OCCASIONS
Randolph & Me Clements
FLORAL EXPERTS
5936 Penn Avenue Near Highland Ave.
C. M. STAUFT S
tíStationery, News, Etc. 
Gentleman’s Watches
ARE YOU INTERESTED?
In a clear enunciation and correct 
pronounciation of English? It is of 
paramount importance in every career 
and contributes to success.
Having had a large experience in 
teaching along this line, and with grat­
ifying results, particularly among for­
eign college men I confidently offer 
my services to any who may require 
such instruction.
SARA E. SIMPSON,
312 Biddle Ave., 
Wilkinsburg, Pa. 
Bell Tel. 726-L Wilkins.
a and Repairing. ^
^ 3702 Forbes St. Pittsburgh, Pa. ^
Mellon National Bank
51 4 Smithfield Street
409 Fifth Avenue
Capital and Surplus $8,200,000
Handsome homes, congenial 
surroundings, healthful location and 
convenience to all places, all com­
bined in
SCHENLEY FARMS 
Liberty Cleaning and 
Pressing Co.
301 S. Craig St. Cor., of Winthrop St. 
Bell Phone Schenley 309
Good» called for and delivered.
We recommend the merchants advertising in the Tartan as the best in town. They will give you the best prices and quality.

---------------------------------------------------

QJhe Garlanr
OPPORTUNITY OF 
THE UNIVERSITY.
The following article, by Herman
G. James, J. D., Ph. D., appeared in a 
recent number of The American City, 
a monthly review of municipal prob­
lems and civic betterment:
There have been within recent times 
two independent contemporaneous 
lines of development, one in the life 
of American cities, the other in the 
life of American universities, which 
ought to proceed henceforth in the 
most intimate co-ordination imagin­
able. The keynote of the one is ad­
ministrative efficiency, the guiding 
principle of the other is adaptation to 
the community needs. Each of these 
tendencies needs for its fullest fruition 
the complement of the other.
In our cities the evidences are nu­
merous of the awakening that is mak­
ing place. Civil service merit rules, 
permanency of tenure, adequacy of 
salaries, together with order and scien­
tific methods of reporting and account­
ing, have already shown how much can 
be done in the direction of minimizing 
waste and useless expenditure even 
after graft and corruption have been 
for the most part eliminated. The 
advocates and supporters of the com­
mission form of government have been 
nrost insistent on the claim of greater 
business efficiency said to have been 
attained by a change from the old al- 
dermanic form.
Everywhere the conviction is grow­
ing that city administration is work 
for experts, not for politicians, no 
matter how honest and popular the let­
ter may be. Experts are being sought 
by our cities, and their offices are be­
ing- made more attractive in a variety 
of ways. Of the greatest significance 
in this direction is the rise and spread 
of the city-manager plan in this coun­
try. This whole plan is based on the 
idea of expert administration in every 
field of the city’s activity, and it is be­
cause of its insistence on a funda­
mental doctrine of efficiency that the 
plan is destined to receive increasingly 
widespread adoption.
In our cities, then, we are awaken­
ing to the need of experts in munici­
pal administration and, having done 
what they can to open up the doors to 
such experts, the cities are seeking for 
the men to fill the positions. But 
where are they to be found? There 
has been no career of municipal ad­
ministration in this country, as there 
has been in Europe, which has trained 
up the men to fill the present need. 
Political affiliations have been the chief 
requisites for getting administrative 
posts in the cities as well as the sole 
conditions for retaining them. There 
is, in fact, no reliable source from 
which trained men can be taken for 
this important work.
Meanwhile our universities have 
been adapting themselves more and 
more to the community needs. The 
old classical curricula were found to 
be sadly deficient in meeting the mul­
tiform needs of our national life, and 
gradually there have been added to 
the time-honored philosophical, theo­
logical, legal and medical faculties
other professional schools, such as en­
gineering and education. In more re­
cent times so venerable and conserva­
tive an institution as Harvard has pro­
vided courses in business, and schools 
of commerce are arising in connection 
with a number of our universities. 
Every year new suggestions come to 
light for adapting our universities to 
the needs of the people they are sup­
posed to serve, and the phenomenal 
growth and success of agricultural col­
leges throughout this country show 
how real a need has there been met.
Why have not our universities re­
sponded to the cal lfor trained munici­
pal experts by providing departments 
of municipal administration on a par 
with their departments of law, of en­
gineering and of medicine? It might 
be answered, because there has not 
been a call until recently for such 
experts and nothing comparable to a 
career in that direction. This is no 
doubt true, but students of municipal 
government and leaders in municipal 
development have for years realized 
that expert administration is the only 
hope for a way out of the difficulties 
of city government in this country, 
and it is, or should be, the business of 
the universities to lead in creating an 
enlightened public opinion, not to fol­
low a generation behind in satisfying 
its demands. A university might well 
afford to turn out men fitted to be 
municipal administrators even before 
there is any great demand for them, 
as such men would be well equipped 
for other lines of work as well, and 
no harm would be done.
But how can our universities with a 
clear conscience emphasize the im­
portance of getting expert adminis­
trators in the city’s service when they 
do nothing to train such experts? If 
our cities are brought to the point of 
demanding experts and there are only 
a few to be had, will not the cause of 
efficient city government suffer a 
severe setback because the universities 
have neglected their opportunities?
Now, it is true that some steps have 
been taken here and there in the right 
direction, and those institutions that 
have started on the parth are to be 
congratulated on having seen the light 
and followed it. But there is yet 
wanting a comprehensive undertaking 
in any university which aims to pro­
vide a training for each of the most 
important branches of city administra­
tion, so that cities looking for com­
petent department heads may know in 
which direction to turn.
If we divide the work of the modern 
city into six general branches, it ought 
not to be a matter of great difficulty 
for any of our larger universities to 
provide suitable courses in municipal 
administration. For the three branches 
of city administration, comprising 
public finance, public education, public 
safety and welfare, a thorough ground­
ing in history, political science, eco­
nomics and one or more foreign lan­
guages should be required throughout. 
In the first named branch at least an 
entire year should be devoted to busi­
ness training, dealing with such spe­
cial matters as accounting methods, 
purchase and sale methods, budget 
procedure and principles of taxation.
P. LUDEBUEHL & SON
PENN AND FRANKSTOWN AVENUE, EAST END.
We are now REBUILDING and when completed we 
will have one of the most complete and modem exclusive 
SHOE STORES in Greater Pittsburgh. 
Oar business continued while rebuilding, NEW FALL 
BOOTS are arriving daily. 
WE'VE FITTED FEET OVER FORTY YEARS.
In the group of public education at 
least a year should be devoted to the 
study of the history of education, the 
administration of primary and second­
ary education, and the philosophy and 
psychology of teaching. In the group 
of public safety and welfare, special 
emphasis should be put on sociological 
studies such as criminology and pe­
nology, juvenile delinquency, charities, 
and the social evil.
A fourth branch of administration 
that should receive very careful con­
sideration is that of municipal engi­
neering. The duties of a city engineer 
are extremely multiform and wide­
spread, and no single one of the engi­
neering groups now usually given 
meets his needs. As his duties are for 
the greater part by far of a civil engi­
neering character, his training in that 
line should be most thorough. But he 
meets many problems in his work that 
are not even touched in a civil engi­
neering course, adn he should have at 
least a working knowledge of the prin­
ciples involved in these. So, for in­
stance, he should know something of 
direct and alternating currents, elec­
tric dynamos and motors, wiring and 
insulating in the field of electrical en­
gineering. He should have training 
in what is usually termed sanitary 
engineering, treating of the construc­
tion of sewers, sewage and refuse dis­
posal plants, water filters, plumbing 
and ventilation. He should be given a 
good course in city planning, for that 
is a subject intimately connected with 
his most ordinary functions. In short, 
in addition to a thorough acquaintance 
with civil engineering matters, he 
must have information on a variety of 
other matters as well.
In the same way it is necessary that 
special courses should be arranged for 
prospective city attorneys. They must, 
it is true, be informed on all matters 
of law that may come up in private 
practice, but that is not enough. The 
work of a city attorney includes some 
very special problems that rarely arise 
in private practice. These are the 
problems of public law. He must 
know the constitutional law of the 
Continued on Page 8
CHOCOLATES
‘OUR MESSENGER’
GOOD
CLOTHESCHEAPER
Clothiers, Tailors,
Hatters, Furnishers
504-506 Federal Street,N. S.
For STUDENT 
SOCIAL 
AFFAIRS
Get Ice Cream 
and Calces at
The HALLER Bakery
In the Center of the Iroquois Block
Our Advertisers Deserve Your 
Patronage
We recommend the merchants advertising in the Tartan as the best in town. They will give you the best prices and quality.

---------------------------------------------------

8Qtye ©aria«
CLASSIFIED LIST OF TARTAN ADVERTISERS
We have classified our advertisers so that our readers may use the list 
for reference before making purchases. The grouping furnishes an excellent 
variety of merchants for any article which a student, alumnus or faculty 
member would be likely to buy, and there is no valid reason of which we are 
aware that would justify anyone interested in the welfare of The Tartan in 
making purchases from any but merchants who so kindly make such a publi­
cation possible. Be sure, also, to give one of the purchase stubs, which you 
will find enclosed in your Tartan every other week, to the clerk from whom' 
you make the purchase. The stubs, we have found, make pleased advertisers 
and help to get new ones. May we depend upon YOU to take this as a re­
sponsibility to your Institution and to The Tartan. - -. .
Ball and Party Accommodations—
Hotel Schenley, Oakland.
The Rittenhouse, Highland Ave., 
E. E.
Banks—
The Mellon National Bank, Smith- 
field and Fifth.
The Oakland Savings & Trust Co., 
Vanadium Bldg., Oakland.
Banquets and Dining Services—
Rittenhouse, Highland Ave., E. E.
Schenley Hotel, Oakland.
Barbers—
The Schenley Hotel Barber Shop.
The Tech Barber Shop, Craig and 
Forbes Sts.
Cleaning and Pressing (Delivery 
Service)—
Enterprise Pressing Co., Highland 
Bldg., E. E. Phone 449 Hiland.
Liberty Cleaning and Pressing Co., 
Craig, near Forbes St. Tel. 
Schenley 309.
Oswald Werner and Sons, Bryant 
and St. Clair Sts., E. E. Tel., Hi­
land 1138.
J. E. T. Shuman, Forbes, near Bo- 
quet St., Oakland. Tel., Schen­
ley 874.
Clothing—
Boggs & Buhl, Federal St., N. S.
Browning, King Co., 441 Wood St
Joseph Horne Co., Penn Ave.
McCreery Co., Sixth and Wood Sts
Strassburger & Joseph, Federal St 
near Ohio, N. S.
Confectioners—
Forbes Quality Shop, Forbes ana 
Boquet Sts., Oakland.
McDonald’s, 208 Sixth St.
Reymers, Fifth Ave., downtown, 
Penn Ave., E. E.
The Rittenhouse. Highland Ave., 
E. E.
C. M. Stauft, Forbes and Atwood 
Sts., Oakland.
Jos. Horne Co., Penn Ave.
McCreery Co., Sixth and Wood.
Dancing Academies—
Jacques, Craig and Forbes.
Department Stores—
Boggs & Buhl, Federal St., N. S.
Draughtsmans’ and Artists’ Supplies—
Geo. L. Kopp, Smithfield and Sev­
enth, upstairs one flight.
Kurtz, Langbein & Schwartz, oppo­
site McCreery’s.
Florists— v.
Randolph & McClements, Penn, 
near Highland, E. E. Tel., Hi­
land 25.
Furniture—
Boggs & Buhl, Federal St., N. S.
Joseph Horne Co., Penn Ave.
J. G. Marshall, 959 Liberty.
McCreery & Co., Sixth and Wood 
Sts.
Haberdashery—
Aufhammer & E\ans, 6100 Penn 
Ave.
J. G. Bennett Co., Wood and Fifth.
Boggs & Buhl, Federal St., N. S.
Browning, King & Co., 441 Wood 
St.
Cluett - Peabody Co’s, shirts and collars.
Heimert’s, Oakland.
Joseph Horne Co., Penn Ave.
McCreery Co., Wood and Sixth Sts.
Strassburger & Joseph, Federal St., 
N. S.
Hardware—
Hukill-Hunter Co., 414 Wood St.
Laundries (Delivery Service)—
Brace Bros., Wilkinsburg. Tel.
Moving Picture Theatres—
The Cameraphone, Penn Ave., E. E.
Real Estate—
The Schenley Farms Co., Farmers 
Bank Bldg.
Shoes—
Boggs & Buhl, Federal St., N. S.
Joseph Horne Co., Penn Ave.
P. Ludebuehl & Son, Penn and 
Frankstown Aves., E. E.
Geo. H. Stoebener & Son, Penn and 
Frankstown Aves., E. E.
Sporting Goods—
Hukill-Hunter & Co., 414 Wood St. 
See Mr. Lockhart.
A. G. Spalding & Bros., Wood and 
Sixth Sts.
Tobacconists—
Schenley Hotel.
C. M. Stauft, Forbes and Atwood 
Sts., Oakland.
Transfer and Storage—
Webber Express and Storage Co., 
4616-20 Henry St. Tel., Schen­
ley 239.
Typewriters—
The Underwood Typewriter Co., 
Liberty Ave.
Opportunity of the University
(Continued)
United States and of his own State, for 
he is constantly confronted with the 
limitations imposed thereby. He must 
know the law of municipal corpora­
tions, the law of public officers and 
the law of taxation. He can not advise 
the city nor intelligently frame its 
ordinances unless he has a thorough 
knowledge of these matters.
Finally, there is a need for the 
training of health officers for our 
cities. The health officer must be 
more than a good physician; he must 
be a sanitarian, and his training 
should have that in view. In addition 
to the regular medical course given in 
our best medical schools, the prospec­
tive health officers should receive a 
thorough training in preventive medi­
cine and hygiene in all its phases.
In this way provision will have been 
made for all the principal branches of 
municipal administration in a compre­
hensive way. The groups can advan­
tageously be arranged so that the 
completion of the work in any one of 
them will take five years, and this 
should in every case include the writ­
ing of a suitable thesis on some phase 
of the work comprised in the group 
studied.
It is not enough, however, that the 
training should be merely offered by 
our universities. The course should be 
made as attractive as possible and 
should at least be put on a par with 
other professional courses. For this 
reason suitable degrees should be con­
ferred on those completing the courses 
as prescribed; as the work herein out­
lined contemplates five years of study, 
it is believed that a master’s degree 
would best fit in with our present uni­
versity arrangement. So a master of 
science in municipal engineering could 
properly be conferred on those com­
pleting the engineering work; a mas­
ter of laws on those completing the 
legal course; and a master of arts in 
public science, education, safety and 
welfare respectively on the students 
successfully completing those courses. 
In the case of the public health work, 
it would be better to confer a doctor 
of public health degree to conform to 
the practice of giving a doctor’s de­
degree after the regular course instead 
of a bachelor’s' degree, as in other de­
partments of the university.
Finally, to place this important 
phase of university work on a par 
with the other fields of activity, a sep­
arate department of municipal ad­
ministration should be created com­
prising all the six courses outlined. 
We are hoping to make of municipal 
administration in all its aspects a 
career and a profession in every way 
comparablê to any of the private pro­
fessions. Our Universities now have 
departments of law to train lawyers, 
departments of medicine to train doc­
tors, departments of engineering to 
train engineers* and even departments 
of agriculture to train farmers. No 
reason seems to exist, then, why there 
should not be a department of munici­
pal administration to train municipal 
officials. The executive organization 
of such a department would naturally 
consist of the deans of the various ex­
isting departments whose work is in­
cluded in the new curricula.
By adopting such a scheme as this, 
then, our universities could meet the 
opportunity presented by the awak­
ening of the cities and the work of 
emphasizing the advantages of train­
ing men who can furnish such admin­
istration. This is the city’s need and 
this is the University’s opportunity.
Roman Festival and Dance
Continued from Page 4 
A new interest and spirit has devel­
oped in the Design School as a result 
of this affair. The different depart­
ments have become more acquainted 
with each other and from now on will 
co-operate in favor of a more eventu­
al school life. The Design School 
plans to have a continuance of similar 
affairs and invite the whole of Car­
negie to co-operate with them.
The committee was comprised of 
George A. Ebeling, chairman; Eliza­
beth M. Birchmore, Ruth A. Williams, 
Wm. F. McCaughey, Harold L. Heil­
man, Harry C. Messerschmidt, and 
A. Brady McSwigan.
The committee wishes to thank the 
students for their support and Mr. 
Hornbostel for his advice and kind­
nesses rendered. The festival and 
dance was given the highest approval 
of all, including the faculty and guests 
present.
ENTERPRISE PRESSING COMPANY 
Cleaners and Dyers
Perfect Work in Ladies’, Children’* and 
Household Work.
Oriental Rugs and Draperies a Specialty 
203 Highland Bldg. Pittsburgh. Pa.
Phones: Office 449 Hiland Works: 491 2 Hiland
The upper classmen all patronize us
Plebes, Come over and get acquainted 
Hair Cutting our specialty 25 Cents
Harry F. Van Ctiren's 
“TECH BARBER SHOP”
Craig and Forbes Street, Pittsburgh, Pa.
We recommend the merchants advertising in the Tartan as
HOTEL SCHENLEY
ROMAN H. HEYN, President THOMAS J. KARAS, Manager
r I ^HE place where all Entertainments, Banquets and 
Social Functions of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology and its Fraternities are being given.
Try our 50c Luncheon—the finest obtainable in 
the City of Pittsburgh, served daily in our Rathskeller
the best in town. They will give you the best prices and quality.
