Hen mo6t.be at liberty to 
Ea? in print Whatever they 
Henm in mind to say, pro­
dded it wrongs no one. 
„CHARLES A. DANA
Todays Editorials
Rushing Rules 
Rushing Season or War? 
' Ideals are Grand Things
VOL. 30..CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA. .TUESDAY* DECEV1BKR 10, 1935
[Christmas Chapel Next 
Xues. in Little Theater 
Climaxes ’35 . Services
¡(oletide Hymns, Music, 
Scriptural Headings, 
Are Features
T0 BE BROADCAST 
STATION WWSW
Dr. Charles Watkins, Acting 
President, to Preside 
Over Services
¦his year’6 ChTlstmas Chapel Jce. which win be held on Tuesasy. December 17, at 12:30 iutie Little Theater of the College poe Arts, 'will Tie broadcast over rfjUon WWSW, according to an-, BouDcement. Dr. Charles Watkins, Jrtlug president, will preside over 
j* annual event;
Others taking part in the serv- „es are Professor Chester "Wallace .»Department of Drama, -who will read selections from the Scrip­ts, and Mr. Matthew Frey, of die Department of Music arid
Organ Prelude—Pastoral Sym- 'nhcmr from “The Messiah,” by "Adeste Fidelie;” ."Little of Bethlehem;" Scripture I Reading; “Prom Heaven Above to ¡ Earth I Come;” “It Came Upon the Midnight Clear.” “Lo! ' How A Rose E'er Blooming;" Prayer; Tbe First Noel;" “God Rest you ¦jentlemen;” "Silent Night;"
d faculty should try .to attend Is chapel service, which has bee: ry popular in the past. ¦’
Debating Oub 
Given Budget
Will Meet with -Teams 
From Other Schools 
Next Semester
minimum expense account of ill aid the Unldn in log with its plans. This-spring they planning to have .debates
Western Reserve, ..Case, -Oberlln, ulgers, and others.The Carnegie Tech ; : Debating aion has been very active on ' impus this fall. Although the lercolleglate debating season • does sol open until early m the spring, last Saturday, a four man . team in­cluding Eugene - ;M. Simon ’37, ‘ Parbman *36, Charles D. Beard '36, and Herman F.Wohlson SÜ, selected oÿ~,Mr. Leo .T. Law- fcr and other members of. the De* Priment of. English, represented Carnegie in a pre-season debate' at Westminister. Mr!-• Lawler is fac- illy adviser for the Union. Other officers are: "President, Saul M. Parbman '36, Secretary-Treasurer, Robert McMastér ’36, '¿nd- Debate' Onager, Ellis Pefi:y '37..Anyone interested in.-debating invited to attend the nest me'eting to be lield Tuesdays December1:30i ÍL31-C, Induarties Hall.
Carnegie Ghess 
Team In League:
fas Won Eleven Matches: 
Piana Radio Encounters
‘Ince its organization.Inst before admission lo the ^Eiie was granted', the Carnegie '«m defeated- the Westingliouse 
¦ ,H.. aiid ..in.. the .;.fixs't league!®«ch the Bellevue Y. M: C. A, ¡«nquished 3-2. Last Friday .fng the team scored its second ctorv bv defeating the Is Y. M. C. A. 3 ", - v..« eleventh consecu the team lias scored, in the near future, the .team: P-nnittg to plav matches -. with ¦p° State and Penn State-by:ra- °. o.er the Carnegie -Transmit- club s station A match .with fitt cliess team is also being ttranged.
„CHARRL E
„^0 hundred seventy-five copies Le Old Newsboys” edition-- of jf® Pittsburgh Press »were sold on ® caapUg yesterday afternoon, by i Poup of prominent students, ¡-.rfie total proceeds from the sale 
tko B ers which were donated by fju rress was turned 'over to char- ^.organizations^ -$23.50" was- col-
Schedule Christmas Party Next Tuesday
Santy Claus, in the person of Kent Shaffer, will pay à visit to Tech next Tuesday evening.
At that time 200 guests of the' Carnegie Christian Association will meet at the Grill'foç the an­nual Christmas party.
Members of the Christian As­sociation cabinet are selling dinner tickets. The charge Is twepty-flve cents.
Robert Coblèntz, president of - the Association is master, of ceremonies..
Meteorologist 
Speaks Friday
Noted Dr. Karl Lange 
To Discuss Soaring
Guest of Gliders
Club Working for Course 
On Meteorology Here
Dr. Karl O. Lange, one of the 
founders and director of the Soar­
ing Society of America, will give 
lecture on “Soaring and Its Rela* 
tion to Meteorology” In the Carn< 
gle Union, Friday, December 13 at 
8:30. p. m.
This is one in a series of* public 
lectures sponsored by the Institute. 
Dr. Lange is being brough^ to Car­
negie on the request of. the Car­
negie Tech Glider Club. It is. the 
hope of the club, that the lecture 
Will, stir up enougli interest.to':< 
ate a.demaud for a ..cours.e. 
meLeorology here.
and' is a: research 'associate at' "M.-. li.T- He Is famous'for his research work iu meteorology, and acts as head meteorologist for. the Soaring Society-of America.
The address will' be of general interest;, all are.Invited to attend.
Students Give 
W. S. Gilbert 
Play in Studio
Program Including Two 
One-act Plays Is 
On Dec. 16,17
Students of the Department of Drama will present a' program of plays in the Studio of the Admin­istration building, Mouday and Tuesday, December 16 and 17 al 3:30! No tickets are required.
• "The. Palace of Truthu ia three acts, by W. S. Gilbert will be pre­sented. •• Gilbert, of Gilbert and fame, anticipated in this
Merrill.Two one-act plays, directed by .Miss .Anna Dice, are also included In this program. These are “Mat­ter of Choice” and "Babouscka.” Among the students takiug part in the plays are Maxwell Licit, Mary Jalie Papworth, Jane Adelaide Ben- rietts, • Nina Rubenstein, Janet Frances Bayly, Dau Motley, Lottie phlllips, Marian Brooks, Gene Moe, i Emil Seidel,- Thomas L. Bechett, I'Dorotiiy Ashton,- Helen Thomas. Shirley Scliade, and -Frances Me-
Program Planned 
By E.E. Honorary
Eta Kappa 'Nu Will Hold 
Initiation and Banquet
Eta Kappa Nu, national elec­
trical engineering . honorary, > plauning an extensive program fov December 18. - The program; will begin with the • initiation . of pledges. Charles Blllantie ’36, Glen BV Danghton '37, and John B. Sln- 
cle kS6. will be initiated, ..¦ Following this ceremony - there will be. a banquet.in Carnegie Inn. Inivitatlone have. been; sent to all 
Pittsburgh ilumni-ds well- dergraduate membei’S. At this time i the^reeentatlon of the ••Electrical Engineers Handbook; will.- be made- The candidate for this hon­or' has - not yet been choosen, but «pveral men are .beyig considered. Tl^e recipient wiU.be a member of the junior, class and will be chosen on the basis of activities- and schol­arship during his sophomore ^ear.President J. N. Jones as stated that the presentation of the hand book;-is particularly^ appropriate as it is a compendium of all electrical; 
'engiueerlngvdata. ....................
Basketballers
Open Season 
Thurs. Night
Westminster Is Engaged 
In First Contest 
Of Campaign
TARTANS TO HAVE 
IMPROVED LINEUP
Face One of District’s Best 
Teams; Has Never Lost 
Game to Carnegie
Carnegie Tech’s basketball team will open the 1935-1936 season at school with a game against tbe strong Titan team of Westminiter. College lo the Carnegie gymnasium this Thursday night, The Tartan, team promises to be one of the stronest which the school can boast of in many years but still they are .decidedly the nnderdogs in this first encounter.
The Westminster squad is un­doubtedly one of the best teams In the’ district If not in the entire country. A big, well-balanced, well-coached team will face tbe Plaid Thursday with the expecta­tion of winning in hand. For the Sklbos to upset this dope would be difficult.,
The Carnege team has nevei beaten the Titans in basketball; and a win over the- Westminster dribblers would mean 'basketball fame for the, Clanmen. This is tho Tartans’ opening game of the year,
first stringers i
I with a. bad knee-that
have just reported • and m yet in shane for tho floor gam year, having practised only a few weeks before this conf ' 
'The^WeBtminRter. team comes to .Carnegle-with six. victories to, date arid a wealth, of.,, experienced.
practice game with the famous WIl- llgs' wo.s played abput two weeks ».go.wiih. the tally ending In a '35- 35 deadlock. The Carnegie five looked good in this fray biit It must be-remembered that this was be­fore the injuries set in.A capacity crowd Is expected foi this game on- Thursday: night'and the A. A. is preparing for it. This will be the first real test of the pic­ture card- system, S special stu­dent gate is being prepared by di­viding the regular entrance into two parta. The catch then is to present your card and grimace as much like the carlcAture as possi­ble.' Student- admission' is card only. This is the only home game for .the .Carnegie basketball squad before Christmas vacation.
Students Give 
Music Recital
Classical Compositions 
Will Be Featured
. Musical conigusittens - of- the classical school will be featured ar the- recital, Sunday, December 15 at 8:15. p. m., given by students Qt the Department of Music..' The program, consists of- Mo- zart’s String, Quartet in B major, played by Florence, Ingram. I ViO: lin; Virginia;Irwin, II Violin; Earl Borg, Viola; Howard Rye, ’Cello; Wleniawski’s Violin Concerto In D minor played by Bernardino Poret- ta; Shubert’s Llebeabotschaft and Die Post" and Roger’s. Marias Wiegenlled played by . . Ortanza Clark; Lalo’s ’Cello Concerto in D minor played by Louise Wingold; Brahm’s Sonata in D Minor, . Op. 10S, for Violin and Piano played by Rose Marie Grentzer and Catharine Gift. The students will be accom­panied by Annette Rosenson and Matthew Frey.Of special interest to music lov­ers is' the Phonograph Recital to be held In the Recital room of the College of Fine Arts, Wednesday, December 11 at 12:30. Symphony No. 2, by Sibelius, recorded by the
Vhohy -'mat will' be .’played - by the Boston Symuhony orchestra Thui day at the SyTia Mosque.
Will Iniatiate 28 
To Phi Kappa Phi
Phi Kappa Phi initiation will be held tomorrow at five .o'clock m the Catnewe _Inn. . Twenty-eight.
Dr. Herbert Spencer, president ot Pehnsvlvania : College for Women. Dr Roscoe M. Ihrig 1s-in charge oMlie meeting. \The local chapter of Plil Kappa Phi was established two years ago. Members are chosen from the up­per tenth of,the graduating class
glneering. twice a yeat. , Admla
Adoration for
Now Skehticism—Ross
Literary Digest Poll Sho\
States Turning Thumbs Down on Policies
Of ike Netv Deat
policies of the Roosevelt New Deal date? Whether, you do or don’t, it is notable that the majority who have answered this Literary Digest question from eighteen states have.: turned thumbs down.
Ju6t as a war hysteria giveis way1 after a time to calm critical analy-;to the fervent adoration of the' great white father and medicine' man of the White House is now being replaced by skepticism.'A good lively skeptic is worth.a half dozen reverent idoliitors in any government especially in a de: mocracy.' The skeptics
early days of the Roosevelt admin-' istration, they dared not raise their; -olcee. They would ’ halve been charged with sacrilege.
Moses to lead us out of bondage. The redemption of the forgotteii man,-the scourging of the money' changers from the temple and,the reform of- crooked business which' got us into our plight were the;
_ slncei . these objectives he would have •gone down in history as the great- ' ce Lincoln/1 are that he:wUI bear the - fame of the foottiali 
halfback;.. w,'h o ran for. .the wrong goal ,or; 
the reputation . of the left field­er who muffed the fly t.hat would.have: won“ the world’s/se­ries. The Tea* son Is that.'jijp! President • w a's; ever given such a free Teln- to accomplish his objectives. No
preme. Court’in the gold cases laamed before him with a decision In.which the ¡momentary and monè- tary exigencies of the Roosevelt re­gime weighed' more heavily, than the-, combined sanctity' of contract. Constitution' and one' hundred, thlr- ty-three years of Constitutional Law’.Now there ls at- hand à. .time ot accounting. It is bf a much dif-. ferènt nature than the sp-salïsd ac- countings in :the famous fireside chats, in these, the radio audience could not talk back. In the Digest poll and in the election -they
“Fashion Cruise” 
Presents Styles
Costume Economics /Club 
Sponsors Unique Show
'44A Fashion Cruise” style show 
sponsored by -the Costume Eco­
nomics club of Margaret Morrison, 
will he held tomorrow at .3:30 in 
the Recreation* ball.. - - .
Mrs. Haile, of the Vendome Shop 
of •:Kauffman's, will -direct the 
“cruise.” The clothes are ' being 
supplied by: this shop. .•
The; following girls from Mai1* 
garet Morrison. are the models: 
Dorotha Bateman ’36, Sylvia.Fierat 
'36,’. Margaret Fitzgerald ’37, jsiva 
Hendel '37, Dorothy ! Taylor ’37, Mariainne Courtney ’38, and Mary 
Vilaack ’38, ''Jessie L. Stocking '3G, is presl1 dent of the club.
Roosevelt
ws Majority in Eighteen
Administration
herb doctor at the
boiled down his talks amounted to thè request to have faith In [Franklin D. Roosevelt end all ould be well. The Ills of the na- on were to oe exorcised from,the body politic by appropriate words and the holding of the right [thought.
Meanwhile tbe great man did not tnflne himself to thought alone, e, during these years of ipcum- ibency, has been- busier.than a whirling dervish, The Literary D1-. gest lends him great dignity by re- ferlng to the ‘'policies of the Roosevelt New Deal.” A policy, it should be rémembered is a settled definite course followed by a government Roosevelt has bod no policy. His career in office has been a phnntas-agorlalacts and contradictions. Even the headless horseman who mounted bis steed and rode oft rapidly In all directions does not adequately il­lustrate his behavior.He has done some good. That .D true. But it does not redeem him rfn the public eye, for after all
islon ot conflicting
there havevoters, the point- Is that he who do so much good, arid \yho had such a great opportunity to do good .has done only a little good and -much barm.The counts against him' which swell the. Digest-poll of protest are many: An outstanding one relates to the abandonment of the gold .standard- end .the repudiation of 'United States gold bonds.. On the stage It would have been : comedy. ; Tn the White Tlousn I* ras and still Is a. tragedy.. Too
tlon:The/ioundatton of national well- being Is the serious hard working [element In tho lower and middle classes. The great Incentive lo 'national stability has been .the abil­ity of this element to live moder- [jately in the. pvesenfand tolay away something- for the future.
kfe saving •for .the -tjiturei is an I¿ITdef^Trdb"ffeyglF.,>Jlfrj t|liree years-or In five years a dollar may nob be worth a doughnut. .The it-6f credit and'cur­rency inflation under the New Deal. ¦ 'Neither In gold bonds,; nor In gold certificates, nor In gold qoin, iri anything else may the ,'fru- gal .and hdnest fln.d a haven of safety for their future. In. 1819
estly acquired becomes insecure,
Under Roosevelt the .first stage'. In Russia,they have •reached thè second^_____________
Dr. Baker’s 
Health Better
tember, left there the day before tianksglvlng.Dr. Baker’s health is much- im­proved after his operation and hestaying with- rela.ltvea In
the.hospital.but the doctors have .dvised against such plans, and )r. Baker now plans to go South for the winter. - However, he hopes.return: to Pittsburgh in .the spriug .or early summer.Dr.- Watkins when asked, about Dr. , Baker'replied, "1 had a letter Dr. Baker on Thanksgiving.
Interfraternity 
Group Balked 
By Tarbell
Dean Refuses to Sanction 
Fraternities Request 
For Rule ChaDges
BODY SUSPENDS 
SIGMA NU GROUP
Also Sends Letter to National 
Chapter of SAE About 
Local Situation
i again Interfraternity <
lion to the couucll’s request for- a slight change In rushing rules.
In the meeting Saturday morn­ing Interfraternity council voted
nlty men be allowed rooms of the rushees in the dormi­tories providing the door remained open. These changes could not bo made without, the approval of the admlnictratlon.
. Interfraternlty council president D. A. Brannlng.took the request to Dean Tarbell-but the dean did not see fit to sanction the change. How­ever. the fraternities were given the right to contact rushees in the first floor hall of Industries hnll. from the entrance, to the Chrlstlab Association club room, In the .flrpt floor hall of Engineering hall, and in the Arts School foyer.
Dean Tarbell said that he fenred •the activity of tho fraternity men would interfere wl(h classes if they
mllory rooms before the Dormitory council, would approve Ihe measure. 
| Fra'ernlty men questioned felt 'thnt the administration o6t di­scriminating ngalnst the fraterni­ties by its reftisel lo grant Ihe re. :ciuest, Interfraternlty council rirew- ideni; Brannjng. said:that he did not iniment upon the refusal
iternltyautomatically suspended, for not making payment of the fifty dollar
Alpha Epsilon fraternity a letter, by the council,' telling of the local chapter situation. Intramural . basketball plans'
end of Thanksgiving.
Local Musician 
To Give Concert
Student Tickets Available 
For Earl Wilde’e Recital
Earl 'Wilde arid his Sissraan quartet will- present a concert .at ;the Hotel Schenley next Sunday ¦afternoon.-.
The program for tbe concert will Include Beethoven’s "C Minor ¡Quartet/’ Schumann’s “Etudes :Symphonlques,” and the Dohnanzi -Quintet.. Special student rates have been obtained by tho Department of Mu­sic. Tfckots are fifty cents. • Any students may obtain the tickets through Ml6s Lawton; room 123, [College of Fine Arts.Mr. Wild, who is studying music
local’ music circles.
Student Vote Disagrees With Architects, 
Sculptors, on Outstanding Sketch Models
Popular Balloting Places 
E. Doud’s ‘Drama’Over 
L. Evans, ‘Sculpture’
¦ By John Knox Shear Disagreeing witti a jury of prominent architects and sculptors, the popular vote acclaimed. Eloise Doud’s- sculptured sketch. "Drama." the outstanding one of the 2s sub-
mended Louise Evans- -aculpture - as the ''most.smtable/'. and it has been on exhibition in the model niche- durinir the last- week. :The other three First Mention • Place», ratings went to George Koren, Eloise Doud. 'and Melvin Vatz, First Mentions were given Louise Evans, a second - sketch. . Martha; Holler., and Robert .Caffrev. Of the twentv-eight .. models- ^ submitted.- fourteen were given awards..Although the'.vote of-the stuf-.............. 3 far.-asl
cerned. yet in the main their bal­loting upheld the decisions of the' professionals. For by popular vote Eloise Doud’s riiodel received 61 votes to place .- it first; George Koren’s “Drama a la Jester” rated ¡£ec<sn<i-wWi-19'V0t03;-ar«d Martha- Holler's . “Painting” received 1C votes for third place. Balloting was carried on for a period of - four days after the jury had made their vards, closing Friday evening. Both of the outstanding sketches were very well composed-for the
pleased with the- high -tone -of- the group In-general.
7 The third problem to be given in the Department of Sculpture will
ttnThe -Prlze-wlnnlno Models.' The| plece on the right won the students vo^e the one on the 
jddBee
''ZM."
with:the fountain and the vard architecture, and’ on suitabil­ity of proporUons
Department of Drama
Pregents66Shakïisitela” 
Tomorrow Evening
I HOP CHAIRMAN
WÈË
MARK MILLERMake Plans 
For Soph Hop
Inaugurato New Policy 
With Loweï* Price
Name Committees
Mark Miller is Chairman, 
Sub-cliairnien Appointed
Comriiitlees for. the Soph Hop. which will be held December 10 in Thistle hall, are rapidly perfecting plans for the annual sophmore dance. Mark Miller, chairman rftDtes that the daiico this yeav will
i"nt .the present Hme.’ . . • ¦ . . > iIn the^.-Intertrfitflr^lLv eouncll ^yBj hj Prof. Lovejoy ^n d
ee ng.. cma u ratern ty 'lVQe tbe mualc and,indications point to 
a large attendance.The following committees have been appointed: tickets'— Mary Yorke,. chairman;: publicity— Wil­liam McGuire, chairman; David Pinkerton, and Thomas,Landau. In addition, the class off leers • of' the sophomore classes of all colleger will' cooperate with this committee.Decorations — Sue Carter,'chair­man; Donald Zalenka; Invitations —Katherine Thomas.
Current Ne ws 
Club Formed 
In M. M. C. C.
Purpose is to Foster 
Interest in Eveuts 
Of Preaent Day
Last Wednesday Current Events' 
club In the Margaret. Morrison col­
lege met for the first time.. Emily. 
Kramer ’30, chairman of the first 
meeting, led a discussion of the 
Italo-Etliloplan situation, and Do­
lores Thompson *38, and Gertrude 
Twig '38, presented . .respectively 
the Italian and British sides of 
the question.
The club has petitioned Student 
Council for recognition. It’s aim 
Is to^ foster interest , in what is go­
ing on. In the political and eco­
nomic world today. Mrs. S. Chap­
man Is sponsor of the club.
At the next meeting, oii Decem­
ber 18, Japan's Invasion of China 
will "be discussed.* Sally Crillman 
¦36. and Virginia Mather ,’3GP will 
speak oil the subject.
Meetings are to be held every 
other Wednesday at 3:30 in the 
•Wdmen’s Club room. The only re­
quirements for membership aro a 
lively Interest in present-day 
events, a willingness to share in 
the preparation of -, discussslons,' 
and regular attendance.
A. I. E. E. Hears 
Talk on Short 
Wave Broadcasts
'Ultra Short Wave Broadcast- JII he the.topic:of-dlscussiou at the meeting of the CarnegieiJng”.
chapter of. the: American *Insti of. Electrical Engineers '. in room. 11. Machinery.^.hall tomorrow, eve­ning at 8- o'clock.
- Mr. Anthony Mag. radiofield, man for the Duquesne Light Com* panv.-will he the principal speak­er. Illustrating. his lecture with slides. - After the talk. . Mr., Mag .will demonstrale a portable five- meter set that he has built into his car-' All- who are Interested are 
Invited to attend
Oriental Classic Never 
Produced Previously 
In United States
PROFESSOR LOVEJOY 
DIRECTS NEW PLAY
Miss Cecil Kitcat Supervises 
Lurytkraic Movements 
Of Presentation
"Sbakuntelu,” an Indian drama 
by Kalidasa, will open In the Little. 
Theater ot the College pf Fine Aits 
tomorrow evening, This produc­
tion marks the debut of Prof. Al­bert .Lovejoy who-comes to Cdr- negie after many years of experi-
attempt has been made to present. It Id the same manner.did ihe Indian prlnoes In whose, courts. It was originally-played. To fully appreolate this production on« must become accustomed to suchv strange conventions as v/alklng' - around the stage In a circle to in­dicate the passage-from place to -
Indian audience,
Father Kanva- where ¦ he • has stopped during.^ hunting trip and : 1m m odi atelV '- falls deeply . ln
hersolf in "vol- untary mar­riage.” .Whan the hermit' -fa*. therr-r e turna'from, a journey/, a n d : discovers .
lago ho sends Shakimtela to the ¦ court of her husband.'-However> ho- cause of an ancient curse, the klpg dòes;not recognize hia bride ofTa : few months and he .Tejects Shakuii^ tela, who is immediately snatched.' up to heaven by the Qods:: ' A short time later the curse'Iaillftef and Dushyanta 1b taken to hoaveni - where he is reunited with: bis wife -
Lloyd -37, will play King DushvJ
anta while Mary Lon: Mehler '80;, nd Jane Francey '86- aro-doubla cast as the nymph-llke Bha- knnlela. Milton Goldhloom'"37. and Carl Dozer ’86, play a clown who attends .- the king. Virginia^ Martin, Mary Ann Hughes,- Maryr i Cheffy and, Sarabel- Browarsky-rare compalons to Shakuntela. Other members of the cast' Include'-Jo» seph Batchelor,-: Beniamin Yalfee/' Thomas Koehler. Mary Hubley. Jean Dunkerlv. Dan Motley, Nina- : David Rubenstein. Louis Hewitt, Sara Scott and Carmelita Jacques.
New Concrete 
Method Shown
Student Demonstration 
In C. E. Seminar
' As the subject-of the-.regular Eni . Pi^eerint seminar to be held tomor- : -' row mornirig; a new method, of sac cessfuUy shooting concrete on a wall will he demonstrated to the students. /The meeting ylll be hela at 11:30 In the masonry shop, room"-:' 19B Industries hall. Although of : .particular Interest to students in ^ Civil Engineering- and Architecture the demonstration will be open. tO:V;_- the general student body.The method bf shooting concrete has been perfected as the result of v. experimental work 'carried on b a committee, on house construction..-^ appointed by Dr. Charles Watklna/:,': The committee made up of faculty members and people: Interested In building construction,' has as its chairman C. W. Larkin, masonry;-; instructor, and includes: -Theodore^.-.- Smith, head of the Federal Housing.? Administration in the Pittsburgh^ arfea;'"Georf^; Evan'Si.iwrner noild^ing inspector for the city. of, PIttg>-% burgh?1 and Robert. • Bowers, -cityj,^ 
architect.
Meetings Resumed 
By Safety Valve
safety Valve.'or-giyilzed-last-.yj......................ed again this year. The first-meet?!,: ing will be today at 12;o0 In rooi*^ 2S5A of Industries :hall..-.'The subject . for . dlecussion^i«^ -Shi) 11 the Olympic.Games of .l93Cr^.Be Held In Germany ?" .The. Bpeafcg^ja
and Dr. R. D. Gregg, head of: the Department- of History.:,'A .-sf- dent speaker will be announce

---------------------------------------------------

NATIONAL ADVERTISING SERVICE. :
: Brne." Toby Cioaa. 
Shw. J«wph Thomof 
REPORTERS: Edward A
SPORTS STAFF:
Rushing Rules Nothing 
- - But a Compromise
D
EAN TARBELL’S latest refusal to grant 
the requests of Interfraternity Council 
is-conclusive proof that he is entirely out of 
sympathy with the fraternity system at Car­
negie. Instead of helping he hinders. The 
Council’s requests were entirely- reasonable. 
Fraternities should be allowed to contact men 
in the halls provided they enter no classrooms.
. . -. And there is no reason why the dean should 
Object to fraternity men entering the rooms of 
freshmen. .ba reasons are weak and uncon- 
'Vineing.
Rushing rules are not representative of the 
'desires ' of Interfraternity Council. They are 
¦ •compromises between the Council, which has 
.to take what it can get, and the dean who has 
some decidedly strange ideas about the frater- 
-. nity problem which he claims to be familiar 
. . with, but his actions show him to be entirely 
•unsympathetic. j
His attitude shows that he is unaware of the 
¦'.contributions which fraternities make to the 
•: moral, social,- cultural, and residential life of 
~ Carnegie students. If Dean Tarbell does not 
care to handle the fraternity situation then the 
-Administration should secure another man who 
can co-operate sympathetically and construc­
tively with Interfraternity Council.
. Ideals Are 
Grand Things-
TjpHREE hundred representatives of sixty 
jjjfl.''fraternities attended the National Interfra- 
ftermty Conference in New York last week. The 
¦ purpose of these' representatives was to trans- 
' -late lit recognized fraternity ideals into action. 
V Briefly, these ideals are: first, to create fra- 
'terhities in accordance with the aims of the 
«college in which they are located; secondly, to 
impress'fraternity men with their primary loy­
alty to the college as a group^; third, to pro­
mote conduct consistently with good morals 
and taste; fourth, to create' breach chapter an' 
atmosphere of intellectual achievement; fifth, 
>~.:-.to promote sanitary and wholesome conditions 
r-in.all fraternity buildings; sixth, to inculcate 
j -sound business methods,in managing them.
Ideals are grand things. It is a wonder that 
- some enterprising Tushing chairman didn’t 
have a copy of these words hung on the walls 
of. his fraternity.
‘ In-the fraternity that you and you and you 
want to join, these ideals will not be hung in 
i .. i>laui.tsight.',' .Ypu-’ll have ..to dig t° discover 
. them. In your digging, you might uncover a 
. few skeletons—mark them well! If you don’t 
find the ideal you seek, consider your chances 
for creating that ideal and making your bunch 
• adopt it.
Season or War? (
;^,;|ri:LAMOROUS rushing season with its dia- 
: >JÍ, bolical unreality .and flexible rushing
t .¡ ’rules brings forth both extremes of quality, in 
jr ; fraternities. Idealism of interfraternal bonds 
:-3;-:,Í5Í:f¿olishly stilted by jealousy and unsports- 
•'^VTtianlike rivalry which tends to quicken the uii- 
áereurrent of ill-feelings, that has 110 place in 
^'vfeáternity circles. Why is such poor spirit 
Vi >?: displayed by fraternity men during this pe- 
v l-^iod: Svhen of all times their mutual interest 
should dictate greater congeniality and respect 
for each other? Could it be that thev fail to 
..realize the value of a more altruistic view­
point? Certain it is that the superior social 
, culture, upposedly symbolic of fraternity men 
r-. .^general,- is sadly eclipsed by their belligerent 
feelings toward each other. Their gentlemen 
bvvvagreem^nts, rushing rules, are broken so fre- ‘ 
/quently that eventually the old system of an 
¿for an eye must.be called into play—each 
'$ieritttv defending itself with: threat of cóun- 
r^te’E-charges against, the others. With all due 
<T ill* :tO:the multifarious advantages that a 
tíír&termtv has to offer, would it not be a great 
^incentive to a rusliee if he could, be assured 
*^5£rinterfraternity fnendsnip and consideration, 
^•-^rlVell as the usual brotherhood?' The espnt 
decorpe is noticeably lacking, but with proper 
;-fJOr-operation tjicrc is uo reason why it cannot 
: Let Vie fraternity gentlemen.
ART FOR PETE'S SAKE —OR—
WHAT'S WRONG WITH THIS PICTURE?
Last year we sighed with relief ae we viewed the prize-winning'picture of the International. No traditions had been violated. The picture was the type everyone eapected to win; it was the type to excite people, to make th'em express opinion, to deride the judges, and, in general, to • make the Exhibition famous. .Peter Blum has another Jigsaw picture in this year's exhibit and there are other paintings which' are deserving of prizes, but what happens? You may tell us that Mussolini has abandoned Ethiopia and we will not be astonished, you may inform us that Little Annie Rooney escapes ,for good;,irom Mrs.;Meany and we will not be surprised; but you cannot make us believe you are anything but a prevar­icator when you tell us that this year's prize­winner is one which cap be understood at first glance! How does the committee dare to depart from accepted standards In choosing the prize picture? Do they not know that this logical and level-headed attitude which they have adopted will only bring oblivion to tbe Exhibition? Do they.Lhink the reputation of the International so well established that they can bo prosaic about the sélection of prize-winners and yet have'peo­ple Sock to see tKelr choices? Can they 1
being skeptical, donned our squeaky shoes visit the exhibition and satisfy ourselves that there had been a mix-up in the newspaper office and a pboto of Joe Louis and his bride bed been placed under the wrong heading. We stood be­fore the prize-winner in amazement, unable to move,, and, as happens before sbop-windows when one pauses to gaze into them, a mob Im­mediately crowded about us, pushing and shov­ing in nn endeavor to discover what we gaped at. Had we found the traditional mystery of the prize-winner? Had we found that for which they had hunted for days—the unreal quirk
ed natural; we particularly admired the real- ness of the string of beads she wore and the almost photographic clearness of detail. The crowd bared their teeth at us; they had expected one of our* serious demeanor, one who studied the picture with such apparent concern, to. find at least some fault with it, some unreal bit
their thoughts. We pointed out faults galore in the second prize-winning picture. We orated on the stiffness of the trees, the falseness of the coloring.. Still the ominous muttering continued. Wo pointed out the flatness and ugliness of the third prize picture in comparison with the other sea picture in the exhibit
What were we going to do? Obviously our position was a ticklish one. Not only was our- person In danger, but our reputation as a great . art critic was toppling. We could find nothing wrong wlththe prize picture! In desperation we turned once again to the picture. The fig­ures were not grotesque; the subject w&b not impossible; the details were splendid. Certain­ly this picture was not deserving of a prize. Of all the ;mnterfal from which the committee might have made a selection, why did they have to choose Ihe only painting with which we could find no fault? There must be something wrong with It of course. Something that even we could not fathom, but what? Why could they not have chosen one more obvlousTy ;absurd like the “Garden Areoplane Catcher" "¿r th® ham-and- eggish "Napkin Ring?” What prize-winners they’d have been!The. murmur of the crowd Lad become a roar rage. Mobsters tore at our garments and
perate glance at the prize-winner. “The picture is too large for the canvas,” we hazarded. They were satisfied.
VIRGINIA MATHER.
HÁÑÚOVER
THE ROVER BOYS AT THE ART EXHIBIT
“Where have you been, my dear Roscoe?” asked the sweet little old lady by the window, laying down her knitting and. gazing with delight on the fresh and noble countenance before her ' Roscoe Royor. a perfect snecimnn of «>1 that 19 best In American young manhood, wiped his
with the simple dignity that' made him the joy ' of his schoolmates and the Ideal of his friends, “Mother, I have been to the Art Exhibition!”The mention of religion brought the little lady
paintings of landscapes and of the sea. George liked It, also. Did you not, Goorge?”, Rosette's,1brother, who had-.entered the room at - • that moment,' declared that’ he :had enjoyed the ‘I- exhibition Immensely.“Yes,” continued Roscoe, “and how amusing was the picture which was awarded the first prize! It was of two blackamoors seated upon a sofa. They were adorned and dressed like white people.. I thought it a bit futuristic.”“Roscoe!”
Roscoe had the good grace to blush and to be?
Rover sighed. “I suppose It is that school which you .attend,"' 3he said. “I'm sure you never heard your father or me use aucli language.”"Oh, no, no,” protested both the boys and each promised to abstain from all such obscene words in the future. Roscoe moved to the window and covered his face with his hands. His handsomp, manly form made all the young ladles who dwelt across the street and who gazed out of the win- dow to catch a glimpse or him, swoon with Joy. He turned to his heat and flung It at her feet as he promised to forego the tainted speech of college life.
Mrs. Rover felt that her son was punished enough and drew him to her to kiss his noble brow. ‘ George, whose mlschievlous nature was his gravest fault, tried to relieve the tension of the situation by crying, “and Mother, how Roscoe’s shoes squeaked! Everyone started and
'stared" at "liar".......................The young men continued to describe the paintings and of the wonders of the art gal­leries, their bright eyes glowing. So eager were they to impart thteir observations to their mother that they occasionally forgot themselves so far as to interrupt each other, but always, upon . realizing .their .breach of . etiquette, they each stopped and begged forgiveness of the other and ' Roscoe, being the elder, proceeded with the’tale.When they came to the end of their breathless adventures in the galleries,-Roscoe produced 1
tlie book. had been looked through 'In slleuce. For answer Mrs. Rover picked up her knitting needles and-plunged them, into .the-hearts of each of her beautiful sons. As their rich, red life-blood spurted over , her lap,, she . cried, “God forgive me, but'they who are rutned. are better , dead, for at: least thev can not now contaminate others-with their obscene, knowledge of life' ” • VIRGINIA-MATHER
CUTHBERT THE "Z", MAN . tells 
us that the foul smell of subsidiza­
tion has again reared its greasey 
palm when evidence shows that the 
Puppeteers imported three plgski 
pushers ... to beat the mighty 
Tartan team In their Hash . day 
clash. . . . Dave Schmid called sig­
nals behind his three stooges . . . 
"Tarzan" Keppel lineman .deluxe 
. . . blocked seven, men and three Kilties . . . the band kept march­ing through tbe players and held the game up when a pass got- lost in the tuba horn.
dramats to a football game tbe /‘girls'; of the round table sent apology in the form of a
(rod through that portal for­bidden to the male species at the grill the other night'. . . not know­ing their way about they came
UNUSUAL ACTIVITY IS ALWAYS •»ed around the "hilltop” Bie- garage when the boys get to­gether . . . it’s a swell place for ¿ hlc party. -
:haperones held forth Friday1 night it no less place than the Chatter- >ox . . . for Ihree newly acquired pledges . . . most of the fraters : out for one big binge before the fireworks start . . . are the D. so confident that they have ipegne flowing already . . .
3 big night for all.
IN KEEPING WITH 'THE COLD weather of last week “Walrus” Mc- Ken7le and “Igloo” Leavitt spon­sored ft aipich (hey-hey) ride . . .
the week-end just ducky for a slay rifle.
HRR13 WE HAV^A LETTER ;e your column has shown interest In yonr so called "Powder Puff Pa It” we thought we thought yon might like to add a more details . . Mary Loubeen Introduced several tlme9 riurlns the past few weeks as Mnrv
C H.NN[N .h ris t
JOHN KENNEDY HAS BEEN 
finding the writing of bis thesis 
on the Moscow Art Theater ei 
paratively easy . . . Instead of 
ferrlng to books on .the literary data, he goes off Into a spiritual communion with his very good "fra-a-nd” . . Stanislavskyseemingly tbe remainder
have all had to alter their version of tbe Kennedy-Chevaller account to a rather sickening Imitation 0 the Kennedy-Löu iHoItz-Stanlslav
MARION KRAMER COULDN’T de­cide the o'her night whether or not she wanter a ham (75 cents) or egg (65 cents) sandwich at the Chatter­box . . . she was convinced by the Pi K. A’s and their campus satellite there was . absolutely nothing bet’er than a vegetarian diet . . .
WHO WAS THE FELLOW that.out of the Grill last Thurs­day night shouting to Helene Ar- anites . . . “Hello you sweet tha-a-ng” ... “I just loves you to death".. . . conscnuently kept.ail
CANCER CURE 
What may prove to be another 
milestone towards cancer cure has' 
been uncovered by Dr. W. F. Bruct 
Instructor and research worker In 
the chemistry department of Cor­
nell University. He has Isolated a hydrocarbon called metbylchlora f thene, whose ability to Initiate can­cer he demonstrated positively when pursuing an Investigation be-1 gun by English scientists on the I
Iywood than In Alaska,” said Fathej Hubbard, the Glacier priest and geologist. In an interview at Syra- University. “Furthermore, ot the S,000 Eskimos in this northern section, not a one knows whs Igloo looks like. And as for . the.ther, why it’s colder here In Sy­racuse than in most parts of Alas­ka. In Juneau, the capital, tbe low- temperature ever recorded i-s six below, and In the summer, it varies between 50 and 80 degrees.” 
Father Hubbard Is prominent for s contribution to geologic study in 1931. when he trapped chlorine gUB from the eruptions of an active vol­cano. This discovery led to the be lief that loss of life in volcani. iptlons is often caused by chlor 1 content in the volcanic action Among his experiences <n Alaska.told of descending into *n active volcano, where the temperature rose to 1080 degrees Centigrade.
Prizes are awarded at 19 col­leges and universities to those sen­iors who acquire the most interest­ing- library during their college
Strong government, according o Glenn Frank, president of the Jnlversity of Wisconsin, drive ntn artificial lip service t^ their
When you come rmr,b«koL ..««»sisssr
XMAS
far». When Spring Holidays <
. Tha SaU Way U th* Railway
ASSOCIATED EASTERN RAILROADS
F
AR above the clouds»'on all the leading airlines, you 
pilot is always within hearing and speaking distance 
of airports—via Western Electric radio telephone.
This equipment^made by the manufacturing unit of the 
Bell System, is helping the airlines to set a notable record 
for fast, safe transportation. Teletype—another Bell System 
service—speeds printed weather information to airports. 
Long Distance and local telephone facilities, too, play 
important parts in airline operations.
Bell System services reach out in many directions to 
the benefit of industry and commerce.
You can "fly” home by telephone, in 
a couple of minutes. Why not do it 
tonightf Station-to-Station rates are 
lowest after 7 P, M.
THE TOWERS OF MANHATTAN
from a oiw angle—New York's niw Tri- 
borou(>h Bridge, which is npidl} hung 
compktid In chi. foreground Howard 
Houglaiid. Mcf luiric-Mar >hdlL engineer« 
wearing the picturcsquc engineer»' "hard 
hat," a oicc&s.iry protection on big job*. 
“An engine« r’s hie,” he* &a)&l,,c'alk for physi­
cal fitness and «.oirgy When my pep 1» at 
low ebb, there's nothing Uve* a Camol, for a 
Camel cha&«.s aw.iy all signs of tiredness. I 
aiwa}<?gtc a'lift’ with a Camel. I ha\opre« 
(erred C jmc1« *r>r j cirs hccii'«t of tbeir £uod 
ca&te and mildness. *1 hey never irritate my 
throat. Thai’i one* way }Ou can tell Camels 
are nude Iroin more expensive tobiccos,"
COSTLIER
TOBACCOS!
• CimeU.are made, from finer, 
MORE EXPENSIVE TOBACCOS 
...Turkish and Domestic... 
tíianáo'yótfierpopillaj brancL
TUNE IN!WalcecO Kcefc r'—
Colombia Network.

---------------------------------------------------

The next issue of the Alumnus 
P a g e w ill b e J a n uary 21st2Tive Carnegie Alumnus
Send news for this page to the 
Alumni Office, Gymnasium
Art Affiliates 
Of Pittsburgh 
Form Society
Tour teen of Seventeen 
Charter Members 
. fVom Carnegie
FIRST EXHIBITION 
HELD NOVEMBER 11
Congress of Women’s Clubs 
Is Sponsoring Display 
Until December 14
SOCIETY OF SCULPTORS“Fight for the Glory of Car segie" might well he Che' theme soog for Pittsburgh's youngest as socialion of art affiliates—The So­ciety of Sculptors.
This thriving infant of m.ap months possesses a strong Car­negie complexion: fourteen of Its. seventeen members claiming di- Tect allegiance to Dear Old Tech.'
Carnegie claims Suo Watson Marshall '11, Margaret-Grier Brink ¦27, Grace Milliken Hetzel '28, Gladys M. Beamer ’32, Oltrado Eir sotto ’23, 'William L. McDermott ’34. Dorothy Purse Jcx.es, A, Lois Whitcomb Lord A, Clarence D. Courtney A, Charles B. Warren A, and Eugene Gittlngs as graduates and former students, and Mrs. Alexander Kostellow, Louis Squi- llerl and Joseph Bailey sHm as, •faculty representatives.
Completing the list of charter members are the names of Frank and Anthony Vittor, and Frank
men's Clubs until- December 14, sod will then move on to other Pittsburgh locations.
This showing proves that variety 1s (he spice of life, tor we have Tarlety in size, variety in subject natter and in the development of (be modeling. There are whole figures: parts of figures, andfigures in combination. There is abstraction in the modeling and, above all, the personal point of view on the port of. each sculptor. The works show Pittsburgh artlsta intent on catching the elusive mo­ment, translating a mood, express­ing strength, beauty, character, the Joy of life and living.
The success of the exhibitions indicates. tha they,.ba7©:, swQseed-
Alumni Group 
Hold Meeting 
In Connecticut
More Gatherings Planned: 
Officers Are Elected 
At Hartford
The Connecticut Clan, continu­
ing their rejuvenation .of clan ac­
tivities, held a meeting in Hartiord 
on October 4 to'celebrate Alumni Homecomiug at the same time that festivities were In progress in Pittsburgh.The football game with Holy- Cross iu Worcester, Mass., was the occasion for'a celebration by the alumni in, the New England dis­trict. More than fifty alumni gathered at the Hotel Bancroft lor luncheon before the game and a good representation, of C. I. T. rooters attended the game. Thanks is,due the Connecticut Clan offic­ers and members, and to our Bos­ton-representative, “Red" Godden, for their cooperation ry advertising this event to the New England alumni.
.The Clan officers are: president, Samuel Leboo, 51 Chapel street, .Hartford; vice president, R. W. ¦Arnold, 106 Clifford street, Ham­den; second vice ’president, C. .Relchenbach 5 Steuben street, Wa- terbury; third vice p/esident, Ed­ward Griswold, Elm ^street, Ston- ingtoni; treasurer, H. Rosenberg, 250 Westland street, Hartford; cor­responding secretaries, William F. Gallagher, 49 Gillette street, W. Hartford, and Miss Catherine Stevenson, 12 Westfleld road, W. Hartford.
New Clan Plans 
Program Series
Prominent Men Address 
Kanawha Valley. Group *
Information received from the 
Kanawha Valley Clan (Charleston, 
W.Wa.) shows that this newest 
of Carriegle alumni organizations
ing talk on the steel industry.
the group at the December 13 meeting. " " •
The clan secretary is Mr. .Paul M. Barlow, who may be.reached ^t.J.,he_..Wegt .Virginia„Engineering 'CO.,;'Charleston)-.wT-Va. .
Dollar Day 
Fund Nears 
$1000 Mark
Response of Contributors 
Gratifying to Officers 
Of Federation
CAMPAIGN LASTS 
TILL DECEMBER 1$
Collections to. Be Turned 
Oyer to Carnegie Tech 
Endowment Fund
The generous response of the 
alcmni, faculty, administrative of­
ficers, staff members, and friends 
of the Carnegie Institute of Tech­
nology to the soliciation of tbe 
Alumni Federation foe a record 
contribution to .the Dollar Day 
Fund this year has been most 
gratifying to the officers of the 
association, and speaks well for 
the continuing interest and appre­
ciation of the Institute by those of-
$1,000 mark at tbls writing, ana we are anxious 4hat all those who have not yet «ontributed and Intend to do so before the closlug date, December 16 will send x their contributions at onoe.to the Alumni Office. • Checks should be made to the Carnegie Endowment Fund.
Funds contributed to the Dollar Day Fund, which since • 1927 has come to be an annual contribution at C: I. T. on the occasion of the celebration of Mr. Carnegie’s birth­day, are turned over by the Alumni Office to the Carnegie Tech Endow­ment Fundi and come under the 'o-for-one plan.’”' This plan Is called because of the agree- nt made by the Carnegie Cor­poration with the Institute of Tech­nology whereby the Institute un­dertook to raise $4,000,000 for en-' dowment by January 1946, at which time the Corporation will double that amount, giving the In­stitute $8,000,000 thereby maklug, reliable to ,C- I. T. an additional endowment of $12,000,000 ; and a possible additional Income of $600,900.
The llBt. of contributors ; since November 15, follows:.... ’] ATVmVTNT- ...
Harry Sagan, Raymond L. Abel.
ONE HUNDRED YEARS AGO — By Hungerford
J. B. Schove, Phebe G. Pomeroy, Anna K. Dice, G. R. Thomas, Grace Hershberger, Leon IF. Conway, C. S. Campbell, R. E.. Long, Mrs. M. H. Davis, John G. Conway. Rlchnrd B. Kamerer, Mrs. S. M. Jenks, James w. Jones, M. A. Buckley,
Thelma M. Shelly, Gertrude L. Humphrey, Charles L. Ralsig, Mrs. Helen B. Galleher, Clarence T. Pat- * ' Frank J. Kish, Mary E.
• Norman,.-D» J.Hutton.R., S. Hoover. Wllilam Espy,- Louis McM.
•Tucher, -David R, •RehlpEdwiir.'wS Hart Orrall D. Hepburn, Wm. F.
I Becker, Mrs. Nancy ¡H. Chancellor, Edgar D. Lambert, Mrs. Burton E. James, Frank J. Stengel, Elizabeth Graf, Abraham Smith, Earl J. Low­ry, J. F. Harvey, Alexander M. FHsher, C. A. Liedholm, Mrs. C. E. Martin, Elizabeth A. McKinney, George-P.. McKinney.
J. W. JoneB. J. P. Hall, H. G, Texter, E. S. Rauh, Sc C. Lüsten- berger, Jr., Irwin Jalonack, B. R. Btever, Arthur Reese, C. R Deible, Arthur W. Willis, Jr., R. B. Bogard- us. Samuel S. Levin, August Stieg- ler, , Valentine D. Luedeke, PHb- cilia H. Goodale, David Henderson, J. I. Bohnert, J. H.Lee, J. C. Saw­ders, .Mrs. C, R. Fettke, Cora Pit­cairn. WllHa'm W, Macalplne, F. H. Noel, Charles'Krane, Clark D. Read, O. W. A. Oettlng, Beatrice Sommerville, Charles C. Rlchiusa, C. H. Todd, Daniel H. Reed.'W^E. Schlosnagel, Marguerite' Spllman, Owen W. Jones. Dorothy Davis, Mrs. Ruth T>. Hug.¦ Kenneth G. Walters, Agnes Can- celliere,^ElizabethStevenson, Jo­seph (Hubbard, Anna L. McCand-
less, Henry Venable, A. C. May, Philip J. Werner, J. S. Wilson. Mary E. Morrison, el H. Turner, J. C. Fergus, Walter C. Maurer, R. T. Soule, 'Helen M. Savard, John B. Moore, John D. B.eatty, Hugh E. Warren, Robert E. Warren, Charles E. Fereday, Sue F. Smith, Ronald S. Edgett, John Caufllel, D. L.Mathias, Mary M. Young, William C. Fox, E. J. Hedlund, Ina Steffey, S. M. Sperry, Mrs. T. G. Blxler, Grace D. Hughes, K. M. Kirkland, Helen E. White, George Aderhold, Cliauncey O.' Miller. Katherine Shu­man,- L. W. Link.
W. M. Ball, Jr., William S. Be­dell, Jr., Ben R. Auld, Aneita J.DeMarkuS, R. H. Guyton. J. B.SpiKgUe, A. C. Spvaeud. TilOfl. W.
drew C. Muir, J. Phillips Davis, Raymond E. Kraus* Wm. T. Camp- bell. Henry W. Kachel, Walter J.
Womack, Edna F. Speed, W. P. Al-
Chequer jr., Addison McCoy, Mrs. Tobias Kotziu, K. J. Latimer, Grace A. Wolf, Fred J. Buebler, Emerson J. Boyd, Jr., Wm. S. Davis, Walter N. ¡Flanagan Charles O. Rail, West­on H. Gillett. William 'E. Stand* even, Frank E. Henry, R- E. Buff­ington,. Russell K. Lee, Eleanor Reich, John L. Ross, Wm. M. Myler, Jr., Marlon Weihl, John J. Boyle, Jr.. Mrs. Lillian Shllllnger. H. a Nichol, Paul Christiansen, Wm. S. Bennett, Jr., Mrs. J. P. Cameron, Jane Wlthersooon, Robert V; Rein­er, Mellta Fils Bowman, Agnes
shaw, Charles Boyd, Jr.
Benjamin Hantman, C. A. Bur­nell, John Hobe, J. W. Dougherty, Charlotte M. Stover, Ivan Gazdlk, Elmer F. Weiss, R. M. Conley, Helen M; Hayes, John Chtdester, A. " A. Peterson. Paul P; Soslnskl, W. H. Lantz. W. IH. Rleger."
FRIENDSMrs. Edward A. Woods, Chao. F. Neuman, W. S. Hamilton, Mrs. Herbert Du Puy, Mrs. James K. Everhart, Harry G. Samson. Miss
Rauh, John C. Craig, Charles W. Jennings, George R. Holmes. Mln- neola L. Stahl, Mr. and Mrs. Harry
Hall. B. A. Bruse, Teresa D. .Qruse. Bertha Harper, R. P. Avery, Mrs. Harry Wilkinson. J. Benedict, Mm. Charles Boyd, Marlon H. Gay- ' >rd.
In Memory of Dr. Edmond EsqiierTe, Professor :»n»r. wntf Mr. John F. Leete.
Westminster Game Opens 
Tech Floor Card Dec. 12
Clans Arrange 
Holiday Event
Philadelphia Men Meet 
At Pi KA House
Women Gather
Monte Carlo Nightls Held 
At Swarthmore Club
Plane made at tbe October 11 
meetlug of the Philadelphia Mon’ 
Clan, which was attended by forty- 
four Tekltes, aref being carried out 
by this organization in a series of 
monthly events.
. Arrangements for a Pro-hollday 
Smoker to be held on Decomber 20 
at the PI Kappa Alpha Fraternity 
House, 3900 Locust street in West 
Philadelphia, nt eight o’clock, now in progress. Features of tho ovening as advertised in the De­cember issue of the Teklto News are “ping-pong,” pocket billiards, pool, , rummy, bridge, penny ante, piano and radio music” and light freshments. Clan members who plan to attend this event should advise Nelson M. Allen, 8627 spruce street, Philadelphia, as the committee would like to hear by December 16 from as many as plan to attend
The athletic plant of the Central Y. M. C. A. will be turned to the Clan members on some ning in January for gymnastics, basketball, running,' handball, swimming from eight until .... o'clock. If interested, send your name, address, and a notation of deBlre to attend to Mr. Allen.
The Women’s Clan, of whioh Mrs. Albert Mutch, Miss Estelle Dana, and Mrs. W. W. Rlchman, president, vice president, and etary - treasurer respectively, held a Monte Carlo Night on De­cember 7 at the Swarthmore Golf Club on Chester' Road. A tee of fifty cents was chnrged and the evening’s entertainment, consisted of a variety of chance games and contests ¦ for which eaoh person was staked by the management. Door prizes, as well as prizes to those lucky at the games, were awarded. Proceeds of this affair will be used for the benefit of the Scholarship Fund of the clan and
gänizatlön 'to the scholarship fund
22-Game Schedule Shows 
Ten Home Games;
Squad Promising
Carnegie's basketball squad will 
Btart the longest and hardest 
schedule any Tartan quintet has 
attempted, .on Thursday. December 
12, when the powerful xXulnmulT’ 
ster College team will appear in
tbe road twelve.times. . Ten ' of the games will be with Inter* collegiate conference opponents, and the others largely with tradi­tional court rivals.
There is a wealth of talent on the floor squad this year. Only Captain Ted Rlgg and Johu Ewult of tho 1934-35 squad are through: and there are some seventeen boys
and Cy Felser. “Babe"' Patt. Leslie Shomo and “Jake" Cox. guards.
Lou jagnow, who was captain- elect in liP3s. hut had to drop out of school because of class
for two years, who avoible last year due to an attack of scarlet fever. Is back, and per*
alBo played football, and did start basketball practice until after Thanksgiving Day.' The/complete schedule follows: '
ionie.Fob. IS—'Wojneeburjr at Carnegie. •Fob. 16—Wilt VMnli^ at ^ntiweb. 
•Fob. 22—Templo at Phltnfelphli Feb. 2S—Duqueano nt Duquosm •Fob. 26—Pltt ot Cntnonle. _ ;.- Murch 4—W. ft J. at Carnead •Mamh 6 -Pfnt»,.8UU-mt Carra •InUrcollcfitata Conference a
Oro.
Notes About Carnegie Alumnae and AlumniPèrsù n alsNewa of Their Social and Business Activities
’35 Placements
Reports from the various depart­ments at C. I. T., the Placement Bureau, and Information from the graduates themselves; enable us to bring the record of Class of 1935 placements up to date, and
•Alumni Page:
Architecture— JULIAN .1;, CAL-
Chemleal Eng. & Chemistry — EUGENE J. GTJNSHOL, Westing- MiiBeÆ. & M. Co;„ Trafförd, -Pa.; TRANK SHADISH, American Cyanamld &-Chemical.Co., Bridge- Pa:; CHAS. G. ROBERTS. American Steel & Wire. Co., Do* ®ora, Pa.; GERALD-TERRILL, Mc- Keo Glass Co.," Jeannette, Pa.; TOANK RATH, C.. K. Williams £o, Pittsburgh; T. H. DAUGH- “HTY, ..Hall . --Laboratories,- Inc., Pittsburgh; W. M. GOLIJSH, Shell OH Co., Martinez. Calif.; GEORGE L.’.REYMaî^,- HaÆél-Atlas ; Glâga Co., Wheeling, W.-Va); "jÖÖN'%:- JOOL, Gulf Research. Laboratories, PL Arthur, Texas;. RICHARD HARTMAN, Dow-. Chemical Co., Midland, Mich.; LEONARD 2CK0LS, graduate .work, Prince­ton University, Princeton, N. J.; J. Y. McDONALD, American Cyana- & Chem. Corp., Brldgçvllle, Pa.; MORRIS FISHER-and W. J. «SDORN, fellowships. Milling Adi ¦'laory Board, C. L .T.;. EDWARDi J. LOEW, Coal Research Lab., C. *¦ T.; EARLE COLE. B; F.'Good- r|cli Co.. Akron, Ohio.
Civil Engineering — DOMINIC €UTULY. Penn-Mutual Life Ins. ^.Pittsburgh; WALLIS HAMIL- uw, Tennessee' Valley Authority ^Hydraulic Dept.),Knoxville, Tenn.; JAMES W. HERRON,* H. H. Rob­ertson & Co., Pittsburgh: HAROLD 
iHOMAS, graduate work, Harvard university. .
ft®?"1 n» e re i a I Engineering— «SORGE BLACKHAM, Pennsylva-
Rolling Mill.Co.. Butler, Pa.; R. ^W. CARLSEN, « Amferican i--Sheet , &, Tube Co., ' Gary, Ind.;/ W. H. MAIER, Hanovla Chemical & Mfg. Co.; Newark. N. J.; D. M. Mc- CLAIN. Jones & Laughlin Stëél Co., Aliqulppa, Pa.; A. E. RALS-
Scliool of-Buslness'Administration, Stanford University, Palo Alto, Calif.; B. PEARLSTEIN, Levinson Steel Co., Pittsburgh; C. C. ROSS,
Transformer Co., Pittsburgh; JOHN LYTLE, Western Electric Co.. Philadelphia; DONALD MARKWOOD. Atlantic Refining -Co.. -Pittsburgh;- GEORGE L. MUELLER, Duquesne Light Co., Pittsburgh; CHARLES HEFFT, "Bell '-Telephone, Co.,. Pittsburgh;.
KENS, Blaw Knox Co., Blawi Pa.; ROY ALL R. MAUZY, Du­quesne Light Co., Pittsburgh;
KOUlflSON, W. H. Burns, broker, ntlsburgh; ALFRED A. NICKEL, fencer Corset Co.,' Inc.,: New Haven, Conn.;. JOHN E. BORN, «arnlshpfeger Corp.. Milwaukee, MYRON GEHR, Remington- Hand Co., Columbus, Ohio; STAN- BLACK. West Penn Power Pittsburgh; JOHN C. PARK­ER. Socony'-Vacuum Oil Co., Plttij- iur6h: ROBERT-"-s: .'HUNTER,. Indemnity C67‘Pittsburgh;KREYrHomeBtead' Valve- w.. Coraopolis, Pa.; HENRY £«E$HAR, Allegheny Steel Co., “rackenridge, Pa.; JOHN - FOX, Homestead Steel Works, Home- ®l®ad, Pa.; OSCAR. H. KRAFT. 
««cyras-Efle Co., Milwaukee, Wis.;4 • KUL-E-SZ,- Mh\*v SafetyApplnnees Co.. Pittsburgh; L1B- “05 LEWIS. B. F. Goodrich Co., £ ISburgh; JEREMIAH O’TOOLE, WeH Supply Co.. AL- S. -QUETtRY. Four Wheel Kfr« Co.. Clintonville,.- Wis.; ^De j. HEINZER^--: American
i+LYTLE, Wes.tern Electric Co., Phil­adelphia. .. ,
f Mathematics—JOHN W. WAGEN- SEIL. Pittsburgh Academy, Pitts­
burgh. ’ ...
Mechanical Engineering — DON­ALD ASHBAUGH, American Sheet & Tin Plate, Gary, Ind.; JOHN FAILLA and PATSY NORRELLI, Johuson Bronze Co., New Castle, Pa.; WARREN WILSON, Home­stead Valve Co., Coraopolis, Pa.; CHARLES FRITZ, working for his father, Freeport, N. Y.; JACK WIL-
WILLIAM VÀN TRIEST, Carnegie-
& Co., Pittsburgh;'ANTHONY FINr NOCHIO, Dravo Contracting Co., Pittsburgh; DAN NEWELL, Stand­ard 'Sanitary, : Pittsburgh; • MI-
R. PATTERSON; American Steel & Wire :co., ..Waukegan,. III.; GEORGE ; B. HÀRVEY, JR., Car- negiè-Illinois Steel Corp:, Munhall, Pa.; HARRY FITZGERALD, Linde Air Products Co.. Pittsburgh; JO­SEPH --C.- -MITGHELU—Jones-- &- Laughlin' Steel Corp., Pittsburgh
RANSKY. Navy Yard. Philadelphia,
. Metallurgical' Englnaerlng—WIL­
LIAM E.-BAYERSij National .Tube 
¡Co.;-' Ellwood City, ‘Pi;; ' ALFRED 
M. COX. Pittsburgh Commercial 
Heat Treating Co., Pittsburgh; 
GERHARD ANSEL, Metals Re­
search .Laboratory, C. I. T.; WIL­
LIAM CARLSON, American Steel 
& Wire Co., Donora, Pa.; LESTER 
HILL, Jones & Laughlin Steel Cc., 
Pittsburgh; ARTHUR KOMMEL, 
Metals Research Laboratory, C. I. 
T.; B. DANILOFF, Carnegie-Illinois Steel Co., Youngstown, Ohio; MILTON A. DAVIS and WILFRED SUDEKUM, National. Tube .Co., Mckeesporti Pa'.
Mining Engineering — AUGUST E. VANDALE, Pittsburgh Coal Co., Pittsburgh; ARTHUR KRU- DENER, Penna. R. R., Uniontown, Pa. /
PhyalcB—JAMES -MCCARTNEY,
C.; • DUDLEY'.1. PENDLETON,.SL James School, Hagerstown, Md.; JAMES DYKE, H. H. Robertson
Eddy Press, Pittsburgh; JAMES
School. Pittsburgh; JOHN C. BLACKHALL, Brownsville Junto? High School, Brownsville, Pa.; AR­THUR K. YOSE, Pittsburgh City
Pa.; THOMAS WARDELL, Wheel­ing, W. Va.; FRANK BEYMER, New Brighton, Pa.
Home Economics — FRANCES GRIFFIN. New Brighton. Pa.; ANNE HILL. Shlppensville, Pa.; MARGAREt BARR, "State* Home EeoTHyrfticir-Extension* • Ttept.. eter- ion, Pa;; EDNA SPEED, Arnold, Pa.; RUTH GUSTAFSON, Brad­ford Township High School. Brad­ford,. III.; , THELMA SHELLY, Physics Dept, C. ¡1. T. •
Household Economics — ELSIE McCORT. dietitian. Kaufmann’s, Pittsburgh; EVALYN MASON, City Nutrition Det>t., Pittsburgh.
Muelc—CATHERINE GIFT West­ern'' Pennsylvania. Blind School, Pittsburgh; RITA "PEARSALL. iie-‘ titian, City Lunch Room, Water* bury, Conn.
Normal Art — ELIZABETH HIRSCH, Westmont - Upper Yoder High School, Johnstown; Pa.; CLA- RINDA; PERROTTj Dormont, Pitts-
huffiih."T •' ...
General Studies — MARGARET ANDERSON, teaching English, Derry. Pa.
Secretarial t3 MARY WITHUM, Aetna Life Insurance Co.-. Pitts-
burgh.
RÉÉÜÉli
Marriages
1922
RYAN-HUNT. Miss Elizabeth Alice Ryan of Superior, Wis., and Clarence W.-Hunt. A, on August 31,
Y. C.
1928
. . DAWSON-V1NOGRADOFF. Miss Vera Dawson and' Eugene Vlno- gradoff, E, in June 1935. At home in the Pennsylvania Apartments, Pittsburgh, Pa.
RANKIN-McGOWEN.; Mies Mary Bell Rankin, M. and Har'old R. Mc- Gowon of'Gold Hill, Colorado, on June 17, 1935, at Canonsburg, Pa.
1929
NELSON-BISSELL. Miss Mar­jorie Nelson and-Arthur H. BIaBetl, A, at McKeesport, Pa., on October0. 3935. Mi. and. Mrs. Bissell are living at 1806 Lawrence Street, N. E., Washington, D. C. .' ;
.. BRIGHT-ST.OTT. Mies ‘ Mary Alice Bright, M,' and-'Charles: Stott,1- A’30,. on June 22, 1935, at Pitts; burgh, Pa. ;¦
CONKLIN-CHAPMAN. Miss Mar­ion E. Conklin of'Albany, N. Y., and Frederick W. Chapman, A, in August, 1935. Tbe couple will be at home in Albany. ;
WALSH-HOPPER. On August 3; 1935 at Youngstown, Ohio, Mls%, Margaret M. Walsh and DeWitt C.-
nice Lanzit and Saul R. Mielziner,-I, at New' York ‘ City;' on May 13,'. 1935. -
1930 .1
CULLISON-BUTLER. MlSS Vlr-. ginia M. Cullison, M, and Ernest' M. Butler, A, on August 24, 1935. • 
DEELY-JOHNSTON. Miss Mar­garet P. Deely, A, and Joseph A. Johnston of Pittsburgh, on July 
22,. 1935.
.. <iAS>.8fcST.PACKKB Ml?» Hazel Gabbert and Wayne Packer, I. ou' September 2, 1935,- at Kansas City,; Mo. .Mr. and Mr. Packer are at home in Kansas City.
JEFFRIES-JONES. Miss Martha; J. Jeffries and Evan Jones, E, on- October 26,1936, at the home of the; bride’s parents' in - Pittsburgh, Pa.;
1931‘ SCHOR-WRIGLEY.' On* June -20,. 1935,' .at Pittsburgh, Pa., Mias. Gladys M. Schor, M. aQti JameS 'L.' Wrigley.
CHANEY-TAYLOR- Miss Mary: •V. Chaney,-M, and Howard Taylor: on July- 20,v 1935,- at Pittsburgh. Mr. and Mrs. Taylor are residing at 7244 Idlewlld Street, Pittsburgh.
' ‘HA'MILL-lvllLLS. Miss Clara Jane Hamlll and.Wesley A. Mills, A, on June 20, 1935.
HERNBLOOif '• SUESSEROrr. Mis^ Mildred E. Hernblom. M'29.
-1935. . Mr. Suesserott. is, associated 'with the. General. Electric''Cdm:. pany. ¦ -
1931
SCHORY-DUFF. Miss Imogene Schory, M, and Ralph B. Duff, on October 24, 1935. Mr. and Mrs. Duff , will be at home at 135 St. Anthony Street, Baton Rouge, La.
BUTCHER-ARCHIBALD. Miss Grace Elizabeth Butcher, M, and Gerald B. Archibald of Warren, Pa., on August 7,-1935. 1
REESE-HORN. On October 12,1935, at Monessen, Pa., Miss Carol E. Reese, M, and Robert L._ Horn.
1932
BROWN-REEVE. Miss Anne H. Brown. M, and Frederick J. Reeve of Pittsburgh, on February 2, 1935.
MOWL-MELENYZER. Miss Helen Isabelle Mowl, M,' and George W. 
Melenyzer at 'Washington, Pa-, on April 19. 1935. Mr. and Mrs. Melenyzer ' are ' residing In Belle
REHLIN-aELSAM.MISff Marjorie 
Reblln and Charles Selsam, E, on Juni 29, 1936, ft Everett, Mass. Mr. Selsam 1m associated with the Hooklesa Fastener Company, New York City.
JOHNSON-BRYANT. Miss Doro­thy N.vJohnson and Charles W. Bryaut, E, in Schenectady, N. Y.,July 20, 1935. Mr. and Mi Bryant are at home on Mohawk Avenue, Scotia, N. Y.
WISK-HELSING. Miss Florence M. Wisk^and Robert A. Helslng, I; on June 20,' 1935, at Pittsburgh, Pa. Mr.- aud Mrs. Helslug live at Twelfth aud Church Streets, Am- bridge. Pa.
1933FREUND-MORGANSTERN. Miss Anita Freund, A, and Richard Mor- gaustorn, on October 9, 1936, at Pittsburgh, Pa. Mr. and Mrs. Mor- ganatern are living in'Woodmont Street, Pittsburgh.
; F-AR6UNAI«AN-TL^NER,^£-ifl6. Vartanouech . Paraounáklan and Richard Turner, I, at Grace Church Chantry .in New. York City, on Sep­tember 27, 1936. : ’
p[[AsN’5h[vasl HcLm Elea­nor C.' Cooper' and. Dale Knouse. E, on September ‘28, 1935, at Pitts­burgh,. Pa.' Mr. and Mrs. Knoiise aré residing at . 1208 La Clair Ave­nue, Swlw.vale, Pa. .-, P’ld ,d ’l
FUGLE-LIPPERT. Miss E. Ber- nice' Fiigle and Thomas ‘ W. -Lip- .September 28, 1935,
City, where Mr. Lippert is, asso- clate editor of-The Iron Age.
GRIFFITHS-HUNTER. At Akron, Ohìo.òn O c to bar 19S5,- Miss Es­ther É. Griffiths and Thomas W. Hùnter/ E. Mr.' and Mrs.' Hunter Will "live in Méadville, Pa., where 
Mr. Hunter Is associated with the Hookless Fastener Company, r : TAYLOR-KARCIS: Miss Frances
¦i
Dalton, Mass., on June 29, 1936. Mr. and Mrs. Dill Oneida Avenue, Wocester, Mass.
E’34, at Salt Lake City, Utah. September 14, 1935. Mr. end Mrs. Hogarty will reside at 740 East Third South, Salt Lake City.
1033
PATTERSON-LAGEMAN. Miss Helen Virginia Patterson and Rob­ert-G. Lageman,-r, on October 7,1935, at Pittsburgh, Pa.
" WOLFNER-ADELMAN. Miss Jane I. Wolfner and Gerald S. Adel- man, A, on October 1, 1935.
B U N T IN G-FLANAGAN. Miss Elizabeth Bunting and Latham Flanagan, A, on September 12,1936, at Pittsburgh. Mr. and Mrs.Flanagan are at home in More- head Place;. Pittsborgb.-.....v"
1934
YOUNG-KUHN. Miss Ferna J. . Youhg. A, and-Norman B. Kuhn, A’32, on January 22,. 1935,"Donald, Pa. Mi its living at 71 vard, Pittsburgh.
WARNER-JEFFREYS. Miss Hen­rietta Warner, A. and Reed Jeff­reys at First Methodist Episcopal Church of Crafton, Pa„ on June 12, 1935.
POLLOCK - HAUSER. Miss Jo­sephine M. Pollock and Wllilam H. Hauser, I, at Pittsburgh ou Decem­ber 8, ,1934. ‘ '
SIMON-COOPER. Mlse KatherineE. Simon, M, and Henry Cooper,II. at the Twentieth Century Club, Pittsburgh, on December 28, 1934.
COOPER-HAGUE. MIssEllzabeth J. Cooper, M, and Dr. John R. Hague on. December 29, 1934. Dr. and Mrs. Hague are living in Ris­ing Sunr Ind.
LOUGHRAN-HILTON. Miss Mary K. Loughran of New Rochelle, N. Y., and William H. Hilton, E, on¦June T, ltjSCr - —.....-.........—
HARRIS-SMITH. At Washington. Pa., on June 22.1936, Miss Dorothy L. Harris and William I. .Smith, E. Mr. and Mrs. Smith are residing.at 1019 Allison Avenue, Washington, Pa., where. Mr. Smith is employed by the Hazel-Atlas .GlaSs Company.
HARRIS-KAViEL. Miss Naomi Ruth Harris of Wilkes-Barre. Pa., and'George-C. Kayel, I, on Decem­ber 29, 1934. at Scranton. Pa. .' BRENNEMXH'-'CARtER. r‘T Miss Mary Elizabeth Brenneman, M, and.Edgar L. Carter,:E, on June 27, 1935,'at Pittsburgh,- Pa.' Mr. and Mrs. Carter- are'residing at 20 Beech Avenue, Alden, Pa.STRAUB-AILES. Miss Jean Louise Straub; and WaTreu--Aii«s-.-.E, 
in December, 1934, at Wheeling^ W. Va.
1935FOLLER-ALLAN. Miss Jane S> Foller and Shore? Allan. I. on aep- tember aO. in Pittsburgh.Ur.
and Mrs. Allan are at home In Washington, D. C.
DATZ-BONSALL. Miss Betty A. Datz and Richard W. Boneall, E, on October 24, 1936, in Pittsburgh.
BISHOP-STEWART. Miss Ellen J. Bishop, M. and Colin M. Stewart.I, on December 27, 1984, at Pitts­burgh, Pa. Mr. and Mrs. Stewart are llvlug at Allison Park, Pa.
1934KREILTNG-LAW. Mias Elizabeth Kreiling and Robert M. Law, A, at Cambridge, Maes., In January, 1935.
PAYNE-PERSING. MlSS Varlssa Payne, • A, and DK Amos V. Per- slng. Jr., of Alienwood, Pa., on March 21.1936, at Pittsburgh.
SPBLLER-BROWNE. Miss Jean C. Speller, Sd and Edward - L. Browne, at New York City, on April20. 1936. Mr. and Mrs. Browne living at 226. East Fifty-fourth streetj New York City.
SHAY - WILCOX. M lee Helen Shay and ,WHUam ^WilpoK.: I.. at Carnegie, Pa., .on September lO,1935.STEHLE R-M AYNARD. Mias Ruth C- Stehler, arjd Carl L. May­nard, A, on August 22, 1935.EMERICK-WHITEHOUSE. Miss Ruth L. Emerlck and Albert M. Whitehouse, E, on August 30. 1936, at Pittsburgh.- Mr. and Mrs. White­house are at home In Buena Vista Street. Pittsburgh, Pa.
Pa., and Alfred C. Lawton, I, < June 29, 1935. Mr. and Mrs. Law­ton are living in Hampton, Va.
1936ROBERTS-KUHN. Miss. Olive Mom-iie' Rbbevtai 'A',"" and lra TV Kuhn, I’34, at Pittsburgh, Pa.,
W. Va., where Mr. Kuhn is a mem­ber of the Kuhn Construction Com­pany.
STARZYNSKI-1VERSEN. Miss T.niian Starzynskt, A; at St. Paul’B Cathedral, Pittsburgh, on October 3, 1935. ' v_H E N D E R S O N-SlMON^ Miss layhe Elizabeth. He'n^erson^ M,‘ and William Simon, Jr., on Sep­tember 21, 1935, at Pittsburgh, Pa.LINN-HORTSMAN. Miss Virginia Linn. M, and Clifford C. Hortsman oh June 29, 1935, at Wllklnsburg, Pa.CLEMENSON - BURNS. Miss Eleanor Clemensori and Ray R. Burns. E, in Augusts 1936. at Jamestown, N. Y.'
SMITH • RUTHERFORDS Mis? Louise Smith . and Matthew. A. Rutherford, E,' at Alliance, Ohio, on September..21, 1935!. Mr. and Mrs.
Is.: employed..by..lhe...Geneial .Elecr; trie Company.HARTMAN-SHANE. At Roches­ter, Pa., .on October 18. 193.5, Miss Virginia Macferran Hartman. M.
Births
PAUL BRYAN—To Mr. and Mra. James B. Ashwell:-1 80.'on October . 13, 1936.
NORMAN FRANCIS—To Mr. and MRS. Robert H. Watt. E’22, on M4y 26,1935.
' DONALD LEE—To Mr. and Mrs. Dorr M. Sheppard. E'2fi. on July 22. 1035.
MARION—To Mr. and Mrs. John 'F. Bright, (Catherine Wymah,:. M’28) In October. 1936.FRANK ROBERT—To Mr. and : Mrs. Frank W. McCullough. I’30. on - February 12. 1936-'
MARGARET JOAN—To Mr. and' Mrs. R. Edward Campbell. E‘32. (&.' Margaret Jackson. M‘31) on Feb-^- ruary 12. 1935.PHYLLIS ELIZABETH—To Mr. and Mrs. Darwin S. York. I’SO.- (M- Dolores Sneider, M'27) In April,1936. > •. LOIIJS—To Mr. nnd.Mr». L- Z - Marohnlc. (Mary Shaw. A’28) on April 13. 1936.
DIANiB—To Mr: and Mrs. Fred­erick C. Beede. I’19. on Aprll-2/ :1935.
DAVID PRYDE—To Mr. and Mrs David R. Pryde, E’30. on August;l(>, r
Deaths •
whose mother died November 25,1936.  
MISS EDITH ANDERSON. Mil,'? a member of the faculty of the-. Arsenal High School. Pittsburgh,-- died of a heart attack, on Novem­ber 27. 1935. ."*•The alumni extend sympathy to.
21, 1936.ROSCOE W. COST. I’16 - September 4. Iuas. foliov/inz.:
¦ìiii u, 1 
id
Mr. Cost, transportation lighting-;-.* ebgiheer ~aiLamp Company of Bloomfield. i j., served In the Signal-Corps, at? '' Camp Meade. Md.. durliii- thf- w<ir His work' brought him ,mto-»--con- i. >; tact with the Bureau of Aeronan-Tsv? tics of the Department of Com«-.- merce and many of the <tungston.^.-J filament lamps of 1000. t6 '5.00ffp!< watts now used to light : airportawv. and routes are. credited i to :h work. With . the -governmei bureau-.- h« -uttdeptock -the -rdeslg;Ing.. of certain, of the .e^Tllest-.ln;_ _ staliations of airway lighting sys**.-
o¦yJ „ywJXSJl : r24. ^-Qit#:;:;February 20.1»i5.; -./Mr. ; Cornmafi®^; was- m. the Hydraulic Divlslon'sror&cs the Newport News Shiphulldint-j<fci^ Dry ’Dock-. Company .-.Virginia.''^
Sigma Nu. Alpha

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN.' TUESDAY. DECEMBER 10. t935
Night School Section of Tartan
General News-Editorial Com­
ment-Fraternal OrganizationsQTtve plaid
Phi Nu Holds Dance Saturday 
The Italian Causé — Editorial
Appearing in This Week’s . i Issue
Presenting the Italian Cause
' (Editor’s note: The follow- . lag article -was -written by a night stndeDt of Italian extrac­tion/ -who amended military school in Italy prior to enter­ing Carnegie. The Plaid -would welcome a similar article pre* senting the Ethiopian side of -.¿-¿tie.iquestlon.)
Patrick' Henry’s famous expres­
sion, “Give me liberty of give me 
death,?’ is somewhat remodeled in 
Italy.today, where the cry is, “Give 
. os land, where we can employ our­
selves In a good deed for the good 
of mankind or give us death." This 
is the story of a people who must 
find a place to emigrate. None of 
that fantasy one reads in the pa­
pers' ahout Italian Imperialism in 
Africa. That fantasy, I am sure, is 
in no Italian heart today. "What Italy 
wants is what any living people would want if they were Uar position. Italians don’t like •wars, but since war is the only way, out, why not light? History tells''us that Italy has contributed ijiuch toward civilization and-civil- ' ization does not favor wars but •• civilization falls to see the Itallai side, of needed expansion. The ; Italians thus must jflght because to •fight is to live and to live 1_ 4-flSht.
.• •.The League of Nations covenant ' has prevented Mussolini from ask­ing for what he wanted In Ethlopa, El? that to start the war he has v blamed the Qctions of the Bthio- i- plana os being detrimental to Ital­ian, interests on the Eritrean fron­tier. The covenant of the- League of Nations was made Just to protect ' certain interests and not to pre- yent .wars. The covenant, has worked for awhile but experts ; international affairs are of the opinion that its end Is near. The .. League, of. Nations, is only a pri­vate - tribunal where one states his : case and then admits he is right ¿arid the rest are wrong.UV,There • are only three financial unite .in the world today, namely ¿he British Empire, Franco and out . 'own United States. Germany and- ,? Italy do not figure as such. In ' .Germany, Hitler has expelled the
Jews and made room for some Ger­mans. In Italy, however, which Is chiefly populated by Italians there is no one to expel and so .it becomes necessary for Italy to ex­pand beyond her borders. Italy haB a total area of 117,982 square miles and a population of 45,000,000. Eng­land has a Parser population but she also has a greater area.
Mussolini is really a man of ac* 
tlon, and selfishness Is not a part of his make-up. He believes in glv* ing everyone a chance to prove their worth and for this reason the 
Italians are 100 per cent behind him. Likewise he has the Italians such a high pitch that even his political enemies are admiring him. Regardless of the consequences, Mussolini feels that war is the only mean* of solving his problem- p the League of Nations refuses to recognize the right of Italian
Italy has been a major influence to civilization and it Is impossible to keep her In the background any longer. Fifty nations, many or them under pressure, agree that
Edmund Drensen Chosen To 
Represent Industries Group
Phi Nu Dance 
Is Set for Sat.
that if it were' not for Fascism, Italy would be a Bolshevistic na* tlon today. Italy has been censur­ed for breaking treaties but what about Japan, Germany and the
to the League had it opposed 
Mussolini cannot be bluffed and eventually Italy will conquer Ethiopia. Italy not only failed to receive her just sharo of the /war spoils following the last world conflict but the very nations which ehe assisted are now campaigning against her. To the Italians, name such as Mussolini has match In world history and they feel that anything he does is for the good of the nation. The Ital­ian people not only , have faith In
Officer Has Also Served On Both Plaid And Thistle Staffs
In this issue, the Plaid presents 
Mr. Edmund -Drensen, vice presi­dent of the College of Industries Ed entered Carnegie in 1931 enroll*
work, Ed has been awarded losJgnias. He has taken tive interest in the various publlca-
the Thistle and.at the present time is an associate editor of the Plaid As assistant social chairmen, Mr. Drensen aids in the arrangements for the various night school func­tions.
Because of his excellent activi­ties record, Ed was-called to mem­bership in the Nu Sigma Alpha fra­ternity of which he is now an of-
T
HOME FOR THE 
CHklSTMAS 
HOLIDAY?
yoM/Lmaanno 
QUICKLYW ECONOMICALLY
Don’t spoil the thrill ef getting home again by worrying 
about the shlpmeat.of your baggage. Solve the problem by 
leaving everything to Railway Express. We ««ill call for 
your trunks, baggage and personal belongings and fiend 
themhamgfin »ft ^¦^inatinn,
You can take yburtrain heme with peace ofmind—knowing - 
that your baggage will be there quickly and safely. Railway 
Express service i9 a decided economy In expense, too.
After vacation, send your baggage back the same way. - 
We give a receipt oh pick-up and take a receipt on de~ 
livery...double proof of swift, sure handling.
For service'or information, merely call or telephone 
926 Penn Avenue . ATIantlc 3600
Depot Office: 26th Street and Liberty Avenue 
ATIantlc 3600 • Pittsburgh, Pa.
TUESDAA
AGENCY, INC»
NATION-WIDE RAIL-AIR SERVICE
-TUNE IN ON THE RAILWAY EXPRESS NEWS PARADE
*Watch for toeal af
Plaid Seeks 1935 
Travel Champion
Long Distance Commuter 
To Be Decided By Contest
school actually exceeded that dl6'
vei­ling champion of Carnegie. The winner, a Btudent from Butler, traveled four hundred fifty miles a week to attend class five nights.
Beginning with this issue, the Plaid is conducting another contesti determine tr champion who
Holiday F unction 
ileld By Council 
Proves Success
'THE OAKLAND 
BANK”
Peoples- 
Pittsburgh 
Trust Co.
IN THE 
CENTER OF 
COLLEGE 
ACTIVITY
perhaps win a prize also. Many stu-
buvgh have an excellent chance t
All commuting night students who travel from towns outside the city are urged to enter thiB con­test Send your names, hours scheduled, class and number of miles traveled to the Plaid editor, 
DOSTOEVSKI’S . ¦
The recent Thanksgiving recess 
dance held by the Night Student 
Council on Friday, November 
proved to be both a financial and 
social success. The njuelc’aB fur­
nished by Art Giles’ orchestra 
proved to be the beBt secured by 
council In several seasons. Every* 
one enjoyed dancing to the strains 
of delightful and soothing synco­
pation as played by this band of 
accomplished musicians. This 
proven by the. encorfes that follow­ed every selection.
The decorations were very servative end appropriate fon the harvest season. The corn stalks, tur key e and pumpkins weré promi­nently displayed and the remainder . of the decoration^ were carried out In fall colors.Many innovations were made at this dance, mainly the idea of ad-
A nove? sign above*the stage as well as the new cheek tags gave the dates of. coming council events
future reference.
NIGHT LIGHTS
Pep Houck Will Furnish 
Music for Occasion
Phi Nu, night school social fra­
ternity, will hold its annual open 
dance in Thistle hall on Saturday. 
Attendance at this function is not limited to members, and a cordial invitation is extended the entire night Btudent body . and their friends. ,
As the feature attraction, the ?mmittee under the direction of A. bR Lois and C. E. Blochinger have engaged Pep Houck's orchestra for the occasion. This group of music­ians is well known to both the day and night students on the campus, having played at many of the fra­ternity dances at Carnegie and other major colleges. The band has attained as enviable reputation through radio broadcasting and en­gagements at' many of the better clubs throughout the city. 
Admission to the dance will be dollar per couple. Tickets rr>,
dent council office hall the night of the dance.
Among the guests who have been
A. W. Tarbell, Mr. and HtLl H. A. Thomas, Mr. and Mrs. R. T. Gahler, Mr. and Mrs. M. S. Schon- vlnzer, Mr. and Mrs. John Boyd and Mr. and Mrs. Byrl E. Warden.
The decorations will conform to the spirit of the Christmas season.
It’s not'Love, but Public-Speaking 
that has Martin Goodman in thal 
shaky-in-the knees state these 
days . . . Vladimir ratacbek, fresh' 
man in the Music department, not 
only conforms to the Russian tradi­
tion by playing the violin, but also 
has a gra-a-and .voice . . . Dave 
Biggerstaff sits in-the front row of 
all bis classes, because be "wants 
to, be near the teacher!” . . .
Was His Face Red Department; 
Joe Ackerman, who’s been trying to 
keep the whole thing under cover, should know better: No sooner had be finished giving Jimmy Fisher the horse-laugh for letting someone walk off with bis bat, when he eud-
his
walls having been stormed by : aBt two other fair invaders . . Allen Steel kept four of the toughest .engineers in Tech waiting
bis Bweetie-ple! . . . The “Do- With Associate Editorst Is slowly getting under way . Sally Lang has finally decided i had, after
“CRIME AND PUNISHMENT”
‘In the gallery of immortal films." —New York.Post,
will admit student
NOW SHOWING
Honest Prices Faithful Promises
FORBES
CLEANING AND 
TAILORING CO.
MAyfiower 9723 
Corner Forbes and Craig 
Penfconfi 90S7 1905 Wood Street
HALF-TONES ETCHINGS 
COLOR PROCESS PLATES. 
PHOTOGRAPHY, 
ICOLOR.NEWS arid COMMERCIAL] 
-----'ART'-—
C.S. EDMAN
PRINTERHAzel 0193
6470 Monitor Street
Tech Barber Shop
Craig and Forbes 
Oakland
MARTZ LINES 
Express Bus Service
New York 
Detroit South Bond 
'Low Fares Everywhere
Mere Comes i/ie _
GiFT3..,ï>ATES.:.J^aS
VISITS .rtv
lnyX¦„yXuJ1L
Whvdt ls
YD*DCV1BD
-nus 'vUNlNC,;or ..
„n vorn in-.
’Tis Said
THAT Bill Martin’s little blonde cousin has caused a flut­ter ofhearts since the Thanks* giving dance.
last week'to drive to school and he became so absont.Tnlnded that he went home on the street
THAT for some unknown u son M. Gerson'e name never pears in print outside oF In the masthead. Why so no scandal? THAT If Reginald, the re.
hair as he used topuM his own .there would probably be some
Isn’t that right, Mrs. Seholtzr THAT Mildred Gerson keeps on the good side of the edlti buying him sandwiches.
that engineers i all .n’t i
Gordon Cole recently became the happy if slightly dazed papa of baby girl . . . She’s the' reason that John Page suddenly dropped all his work one afternoon, dashed over to the Coles’, and wher ¦**- mltted at the door by Mrs. Csister, calmly demanded to aei.__baby! After tfe bad passed his O. K., the Coles’ decided to keen Anyone knowing the whereabouts or new hangout of A1 Lois, who’s been too good for his own eood, please communicate with this department . . .________
Plaid Regrets Phi 
Nu Election Error
Because of uncontrollable cir* umstances, a portion of the article on the Phi Nu election was omit­ted from the last Issue. The Plaid takes this opportunity to correct
Mr. Robert Lahr, who succeeds Mr. Robert Graham as director; Mr..Ed» ward Blochinger, who succeeds Mr.
Otto Ehlers as herald.
(Cantpgte platà
by Un Editorial BoaM of tbe Day Sehn)
Editor EDWARD F. WHITE News Editor 
CORNELIUS A. BLOCHINGER 
Associate Editors Mildred Gerson Edmund Drensea William Wesssiy
Is through hls.stomach.
SQUIRREL HILL 
BARBER SHOP
5823 FORBES STREET
Choose your bank 
as you would choose 
afriend 
»
MELLON NATIONAL 
BANK
Pittsburgh) Pa.
rAcv ART FO PRE' SK—WRWT
STEPS SATE ON ICY DAY
..AND AN tASY WAY 
_ TO tNJOY A PIPE—
URCHIN ® 
THROWS 
SNOWBALL AT 
PROFESSOR 
-¦WEARING-TOP 
HAT. MISSES 
AND SNOW­
BALL HITS 
REINDEER (D 
ANCHORED 
NEAR BY-DEER 
IS ANNOYED 
AND SWITCHES 
TAIL. ANCHOR 
(§) HITS ASH­
MAN KNOCK­
ING BARREL 
OF ASH ES ® 
DOWN STEPS 
THUS ENDING 
SKIDDING
50 MELLOW PIPEFULS 
EVERY TIM
Y£S;si*-4o<m«s„ >jj. 
EVER.V TIM. AROUM? S' 
PIMFULSTOIACCO— WITH T“ 
'BIT*'T4«M our
THEN «¡JFO* SLOW^COO1* 
BURNING.
AwuJ„¦ CPm¦wtTHE NATIONAL.JOY
