- I
- .
^CARNEGIETARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 55 — NUMBER 11 WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1962
Heinz Chapel 
Hosts Service 
' For Christmas
The traditional Christmas Can­
dlelight Service will be held next 
Monday evening, December 17, at 
9:00 P.M. at the Heinz Chapel on 
the Pitt campus. Sponsored by 
the Campus YMCA and YWCA 
of Carnegie Tech and the Univer­
sity of Pittsburgh, the service will 
be student led and will feature 
readings from the Bible, special 
Christmas music, and the singing 
of Christmas Carols.
Carole Ann Breuer and Robert 
Lundgren will be Readers. The 
Chorus bf Phi Mu Alpha and 
Sigma Alpha Iota, the Profession­
al Music Fraternities, will sing, 
with Janet Lillich at the organ.
Students and faculty are wel­
come to attend. Cultural Specials 
will be permitted for this event.
S ’n S Invites 
All Carolers
Now is the time for you to take 
part in Scotch and Soda. The club 
plans to go caroling on Monday, 
December 17, and everyone is in­
vited to attend. Those interested 
will meet in the Morewood lobby 
at 7:30. We will then drive down 
to Oakland where we will sing 
in several of the hospitals. Af­
ter caroling, the evening will ter­
minate at the Beta Sigma Rho 
Fraternity House where refresh­
ments will be served.
All Morewood girls who are in­
terested, should contact Lois Cro- 
co, 5B, before December 13, in 
order to get permission to stay 
out late.
Men Wanted 
To Lead Cheers
Due to the fact that all of the 
eight cheerleaders are feminine 
and therefore have voices which 
don’t carry past the first row of 
the bleachers, the cheerleaders 
would like to enlist the help of 
two members of the opposite sex. 
These two will be responsible 
for announcing the cheers and 
soliciting crowd responce. Usually 
the crowd catches on about half 
way through the cheering when 
it is too late to help out.
On Tuesday, the 18th at 4:30 in 
Skibo Ballroom there will be try­
outs for all those interested. The 
cheerleaders will do the judging. 
Each boy will have to do a jump 
—any kind he wants and a cheer 
of his own, not a Tech one.
The cheerleaders feel that the 
addition of 2 boys to their squad 
would improve it greatly. So—all 
of you boys who have complained 
about school spirit since the day 
you got back from Freshman 
Camp—now is your chance to do 
something about it.
Student Congress
There will be a very important 
meeting of the Student Congress 
this afternoon Wednesday, Decem­
ber 12, 1962 at 4:30 in the Wher- 
rett Lounge. The meeting will be 
concerned with basketball games 
being all-school events.
—Photo by Tim Keener
-.CARNEGR ISETR NS UOAFS HAN. N.T GAL SY —Ph.G o.A tETbGy
Anonymous Contribution Adds 
Hunt Library Fine Books Room
A Fine Books Room, to house 
rare and valuable volumes, will 
be the major addition' to Tech’s 
plans to finish the fourth floor of 
The Hunt Library.
Construction and furnishing of 
the room and completion of the 
fourth floor, left unfinished at the 
time of construction to allow for 
flexibility in expansion, has been 
made possible by an anonymous 
gift of $175,000. The donor ex­
pressed the wish that he not be 
identified with the Fine Books 
Room and that other persons in­
terested in its establishment as a 
community cultural facility would 
participate in its fulfillment. The 
project will begin soon and com­
pletion is scheduled for the fall 
of 1963.
Kenneth H. Fagerhaugh, li­
brarian, commenting on the most 
recent gift said, “The idea of a 
Fine Books Room in the library 
is indeed a very exciting one, and 
will enable us to house properly 
those rare and valuable volumes 
which are already in our collec­
tion and others which will be 
forthcoming. The Room will also 
afford an opportunity and atmos­
phere for Carnegie Tech faculty 
and students — as well as inter­
ested members of the community
— to become familiar with the 
classics in many fields.”
In addition to the construction 
of this room, the fourth floor will 
be mainly devoted to materials 
for faculty and students in the 
College of Fine Arts and will in­
clude the most modern in music 
listening facilities. The total cost 
of the project is expected to be 
approximately $300,000.
The completion of the fourth 
floor will allow the moving of 
College of Fine Arts’ materials to 
that floor, thus providing more 
space and beter services for the 
students and faculty of the Col­
lege of Engineering and Science 
on the third floor. Previously 
many of the needed materials for 
engineering and science had been 
housed in the basement.
Architects for the design of the 
Fine Books Room and the com­
pletion of the fourth floor are 
Warner, Burns, Toan, and Lunde, 
of New York City.
Music Program 
Stars Pianists
Carnegie Tech’s department of 
music will present the second in 
its new “1962-1963 Carnegie Con­
cert Series” tonight at 8:30 p.m., 
in Carnegie Lecture Hall. Duo- 
pianists Hyla Goldstein and An­
nabels Joseph will be featured.
Program
Sonata in C Major........J. S. Bach
Sonata in F..............W. A. Mozart
Andante and Variatioris,
Opus 46................:. .R. Schumann
Intermission 
Four Slavic Dances.... A. Dvorak
Sonata........................Alexei Haieff
The concert is free and open to 
the public.
Tech Plans Registration 
For Second Semester
Registration for the Spring Semester 1963 will be held 
on Monday and Tuesday, February 4 and 5, from 8:30 A.M. 
until 4:00 P.M. both day«. Students will register according 
to the following schedule:
1. All Students residing in the Pittsburgh district will
register on Monday, February 4.
2. All others will register on Tuesday, February 5. 
Penalty for late registration is $10.00 for the first day;
$5.00 additional for the second day; and additional $1.00 per 
day thereafter up to $20.00 maximum.
Registration of day students for the Spring Semester 
will be similar to that of last year. Representatives of the
?.Registrar’s Office will be located 
in areas adjacent to each depart­
ment. All the necessary steys to 
complete academic registration 
will be performed by the repre­
sentatives. However, the payment 
of fees for those students who 
have not prepaid will be made in 
the Gymnasium.1
The steps to be accomplished 
are as follows:
1. All students except Freshmen in 
MMCC, E&S, and Industrial 
Management report to depart­
ment offices for approved sched­
ules (four copies for all stu­
dents) and Registration Packet.
a. E&S and Industrial Manage­
ment Freshmen report to 
Dean Wells in Scaife Hall 
Lobby.
b. MMCC Freshmen report to 
Miss Lloyd, M. M. 107.
2. Fill out all copies of schedule 
and the Registrar’s Card.
3. Secure signatures on all copies 
of schedule cards.
4. Go to the checkout desk which 
will be located in your depart­
mental or designated area. At 
this point, registration will be 
completed for prepaid students.
5. Proceed to Cashier in Gymna­
sium to pay fee. dormitory or 
other charges and get a receipt.
6. All graduate students will make 
financial settlement during the 
period February 18, 19, 20, from 
9:00 a.m. to 3:20 p.m.
7. The Financial Aid Office will be 
located in A. H. 150. Scholar­
ship holders should stop at this 
office before proceeding to the 
Gymnasium. Also, students who 
require short-term notes should 
arrange for them through this 
office before proceeding to the 
Gymnasium.
A graduation fee of $10.00 is 
charged to every candidate for a 
degree and is payable at registra­
tion, February 4 and 5, for Com­
mencement on June 10, 1963.
Students desiring a position on 
Student Court should submit let­
ters of application by December 
13 by 4:30 p.m. to Executive 
Council, Student Congress, aid 
leave it at the Skibo mail boxe?.
Pre-Payment 
Eliminates 
Many Worries
Each year Carnegie Institute of 
Technology encourages students 
to participate in a pre-payment 
plan which enables the student 
to settle his financial arrange­
ments for the following semester 
in advance of registration.
The advantages of pre-payment 
are several: it permits the stu­
dent to receive unhurried coun­
seling at the offices of the Regis­
trar and the Cashier; to make use 
of the facilities of the Financial 
Aid Office; and to work out with 
his parents in advance of the 
pressure of registration day a 
sound arrangement for payment 
of his tuition, room and board 
charges. In addition, of course 
participation in prepayment per­
mits the student to avoid wait­
ing in the Cashier’s line during 
registration. We shoulo like to 
encourage you to consider this 
method of payment of fees. Schol­
arship students are especially 
urged to take advantage of this 
pre-payment plan. All students 
expect Graduate and Special Stu­
dents are eligible for pre-payment 
of fees for the Spring Semester 
1962-1963. The dates during which 
pre-payment may be made are 
January 14 through January 29; 
students who wish to participate 
in pre-payment should report 
with their checks or money or­
ders to the Registrar’s Office, 
A. H. 160, one one of these days 
from 9:00 A.M. to 12:00 noon and 
1:00 P.M. to 3:20 P.M.
Singer Slum s 
Russian Photos
An exhibition of Photographs 
depicting life, people, and land­
marks in Moscow and Leningrad 
is currently on display in Skibo.
Today is the last day to view the 
exhibition, composed of twenty- 
seven photos taken by Mr. Joseph 
Singer on a trip to Moscow and 
Leningrad earlier this year until
December 12. Included are photos — --------------„ ______________ 
of the great statue of Lenin, other I is working hard to make sure
Betters Combo 
Enlivens Party
The Jerry Betters Cmobo will 
highlight a dance and cocktail 
party to be held for all dorm res­
idents in Donner Hall Lounge, 
Saturday, December 15th, 8:30 to 
12:30. The party will have a 
Christmas theme and The Coun­
cil of Dormitory Vice-Presidents
historical landmarks, and street 
scenes in the two Russian cities.
Mr. Singer, an amateur pho­
tographer, is a physical chemist 
at the Bureau of Mines. The Gal­
lery is open until 11:00 tonight
everyone attending will have an 
enjoyable âme. Mixed drinks will 
be served and all dorm residents 
are invited to bring their dates 
to the party and join in the holi­
day fun.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, December 12, 1962
Industry Gires Kiltie Band Marches To Tradition; 
Fellowship tul |>|ans geason Gf Concerts, Tours
ror Students
A new fellowship program to 
support students at colleges and 
universities has been announced j 
by Raymond F. Evans, Chairman 
and President, Diamond Alkali 
Company. The program differs 
from many others sponsored by 
industry in .hat Diamond is plac­
ing major emphasis on summer 
fellowships.
Designed to assist and encour­
age accomplished students in the 
fields of chemistry, chemical en­
gineering and agriculture, the fel­
lowship program will commence 
in June, 1963.
Universities which will receive 
fellowships in chemistry, under 
terms of the new Diamond plan, 
include Polytechnic Institute of 
Brooklyn, Indiana University, the 
U diversity ol Wisconsin, the Uni­
versity of Texas and Pennsylvania 
State University.
Carnegie is among the four uni­
versities to be awarded fellow­
ships in chemical engineering.
Diamond, long active in sup-
Kiltie iGmL PSSOR FGIO Sm G RKIITRRYKP EGCI.Amb RTGRSmy
The colorful tradition of the 
Kiltie band dates back to 1922 
when the band, wearing its au­
thentic Scottish dress, the Cem- 
eron of Erracht tartan, performed 
at the Notre Dame football game. 
Over the years it has become tra-
The concert band has earned 
a fine reputation as one of the 
best college bands in the country. 
It is planning several events for 
this school year, all well worth 
attending. On December 11 at 8:15
fp.m., the band presented a Pops 
concert of light music in Skibo ; 
Ballroom. The band is also plan- I 
ning two formal concerts of 
standard symphonic music which j
Tech students can look forward 
to a year of fine entertainment 
and enjoyable listening provided 
by the Kiltie Band.
Tech Editors 
Aid uCharette”
James D. van Trump, Hunt 
Botanical Library and Architec­
ture, and Arthur P. Ziegler, Jr., 
English, have received a national 
award as Editor and Associate 
Editor of CHARETTE respectively 
for the “improvement in design Y) 
editorial excellence’’ of this" 
architectural journal. The award 
is given by Industrial Marketing.
The journal is a familiar one to 
this campus both for the many 
articles by Mr. van Trump and 
Mr. Ziegler that it carries and for 
the work of Carnegie Tech arch­
itectural students that it publishes. 
Also many of the designs and 
buildings discussed in the maga­
zine are work of alumni of the V 
Oepartment of Architecture. "v
Discussions are in process to 
have the students in Graphic Arts 
design an issue of the journal and 
also to run a series of articles by 
memoers of the English Depart­
ment.
CHARETTE has published 
articles by such famous figures 
as Turpin Bannister, Harold Wag­
oner, and Sibyl Moholy-Nagy. It 
is the official journal of the Penn­
sylvania Society of Architects and 
has a circulation of about 5000 in 
seven countries.
ditional for the pipers and the 
porting higher education by mak- j marching band to play together 
ing direct operating and capital! during the football season, for 
grants, introduced a Sormal aid- i ceremonials and ror parades. Dur- , ing the concert season, the pipersto-edueat.on program- several :and thc band become separate " T«“^ i
years ago which includes financial performing groups. The pipers are M“*1C,0 ‘‘lseT SesMes^thesc ac- ‘
grants, National Merit Scholar- directed by Lewis Davidson; the y ’ s
ships, and an employee gift j Kiltie band is directed by Dr. 
matching program in addition to j Richard Strange, Assistant Pro­
graduate fellowships.fessor of Music at Tech.
Grad Student Places In Finals 
For Arizona Meteorite Award
Parmatma S. Goel, a graduate 
student at Tech, was a finalist in 
the first-annual Ninenger Meteor­
ite Award administered by Ari­
zona State University.
This award, given by D. and 
Mrs. H. H. Ninenger of Arizona, 
is to stimulate interest in meteor- 
itic research as an important 
phase of space exploration. The • 
papers submitted by contestants> 
are judged by a national panel of 
scientists engaged in metorite in- \ 
vestigation.
Contestants must be registered j 
graduate or undergraduate stu-' 
dents in an American college or 1
university. Research may include 
field, laboratory or theoretical in­
vestigation.
Information on the 1962-63 
competition can be obtained from 
Dr. Carleton B. Moore, assistant 
professor of chemistry and geo­
logy at Arizona State University.
S. GREEN
All Watches Electronically Timed
EXPERT WATCH AND 
JEWELRY REPAIRS 
123 Oakland Ave. MU. 1-6104
will be presented at Carnegie
tivities, the band plans a concert 
tour to Cleveland.
Boys night out? — Girls night out? Both night out?
Then Grab a Snack ... or Dinner
...at RITTERS DINER
SERVING THE BEST. OPEN 24 HRS.
5324 Baum Blvd. (near Liberty) MU. 2-9318
Don’t pay for a 
checking account!
At Union National Bank, you can have a free personal checking account. Just 
keep a $200 balance. There’s no service charge. No maintenance charge. No 
charge for new checks. No charge for deposits. Pay your bills the easy way. 
Stop in at your nearest Union National Bank office and open your free personal 
checking account. (Union National Bank also has a special personal checking 
account that requires no minimum balance—checks cost $2.00 for a book of 
twenty.) Come in today.
The Union National Bank of Pittsburgh
Eighteen Convenient LocationsYou Can Bank With Us By Mail
Kcmbtr f Rcttfvc Syjten / Member Fadcrai Dtp«»il Imukkcc Coipoiitì*«
METRO GOLDWfH MAYER
MARLONBRANDO
TREVORHOWARDRICHARDHARRIS
FILM EC IH ULTRA PAMA VISION »•AM ARCOLA NC1URE TfCMNlCOtOft*MUTINY “sON THE „DfillMTV Thursday
EXCLUSIVE TRI-STATE SHOWING!
Ue—nU rtl —n itW taac-e ts id V—cB
EVENINGS AT l:M P M. MATINEES AT 2:30 FAt
Prices (Tax loci.)0*«b. Ac Mezz.Balcony
Evenings: Sun. Ihr» Ttiors.*2.5#$2.M - *1.3»
Evenings: Frt., Sat. Ac Hoi.$2.75UntA i $2.*>
Matine**: Sat., Sun. Ac H»l.$2.»$1.»« - UotNa
Matinees: WednesdayUMII.»
FOR THEATRE PARTY INFORMATION: CALL 2*1-*634
954» Liberty Ave., HflVAUT BOX OFFICE Pittsburgh 22, Pa. Phone 281-Í772
OPEN WIDE and SAY A-H-H-H!
Get that refreshing new feeling with Coke!
QUAKER STATE COCA-COLA 
BOTTLING COMPANY
BctHe* wafer wtfcority Ttw -..C-.A Company by MTTIM S NAMt Nitt rMrttrift, Pennsylvania

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, December 12, 1962 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Paffe X
MIT Professor 
Lectures At Tech 
On Oceanography
“Recent Trends in Ocean­
ography” will be the subject of 
a public lecture to be given by Dr. 
Dayton E. Carritt,' of MIT, Tues- 
.¿¦day, December 18, at 4:30 p.m. in 
the Scaife Hall of Engineering 
Auditorium.
Dr. Carritt, professor of ocean­
ography at M.I.T., will deliver 
the lecture before the Carnegie 
Tech chapter of The Society of 
the Sigma Xi.
Following completion of his un­
dergraduate study at Rhode Is­
land State College, Dr. Carritt re­
ceived his Ph.D. degree in analy­
tical chemistry from Harvard. 
'^During World War It, he Was en­
gaged in research for the United 
States Navy at Woods Hole and 
for the Manhattan Project at Los 
Alamos. Before assuming his pre­
sent position, he was associated
Seniors Ackermann? Cartwright 
Get Lubrizol F oundation Awards
Every year about this time the 
Lubrizol Foundation presents its 
cash awards to the two outstand­
ing seniors in Tech’s Department 
of Chemistry. The winners of the 
awards are determined by a vote 
of the faculty in the Department.
This year’s awards, each worth 
$200, have been presented to Mar­
tin N. Ackermann and Richard 
V. Cartwright. The former is also 
the editor of this newspaper.
Two other awards in the De^ 
partment of Chemistry, which are
also presented at this time, are 
the President John C. Warner 
Awards to the most deserving 
Senior and Sophomore in the De­
partment.
This year’s Senior Award was 
presented to Jane Scott. It carries 
with it a three year membership 
in the American Chemical Society.
The Sophomore Award was 
given to Eric H. Erenrich. It in­
cludes a three year membership 
in Tech’s Student Affiliate of the 
American Chemical Society.
with the Scripps Institute and the 
Chesapeake Bay Institute of Johns 
Hopkins University.
Dr. Carritt’s research interests 
have included the theory of the 
action of antifouling paints, atomic 
weight studies, polarography, plu­
tonium chemistry, and the chem­
ical properties of sea water.
Classified Ads
Tech Communnity Orchestraw
Prepares for December Concert
The 100-piece Carnegie Tech 
College - Community Orchestra 
will present its first concert of the 
season on Saturday, December 15, 
at 8:30 p.m., in Carnegie Music 
Hall. The orchestra will be con­
ducted by Sidney Harth, world- 
famous violinist and head of Car­
negie Tech’s department of music. 
Of Mr. Harth one critic recently
| said, “He is clearly one of the 
finest violinnjsts this country has 
| produced.’
The program includes Schu­
berts Rosamund Overture, Dvor- 
| aks 4th Symphony, and Shostako- 
| vichs 5th Symphony. Tickets may 
be bought at Hornes Music Cen­
ter, Volkweins, Carnegie Tech*
bookstore, and the box office.
PROFESSIONAL TYPING - HA. 1-1456. 
On electric typewriters, reasonable 
rates. Themes, Theses, Manuscripts, 
Term Papers, Applications, etc. Spel­
ling errors corrected.
DANCE MUSIC — The Leo Atman 
Combo. HAzel 1-2083. Evenings.
m
i
Did you win a
HERE ARE 
THE FIRST
WINNING!
NUMBERS*
America’s hottest new 
sports convertible!
IMPORTANT! If you hold any of the 5 winning 
numbers, claim your Pontiac Tempest LeMans 
Convertible in accordance with the rules on the 
reverse of your license plate.
AH claims for Tempests and Consolation 
Prizes must be sent via registered mail, post­
marked by Dec. 26,1962 and reteived by the 
judges no later than December 31, 1962.
If you hold a consolation prize number, you win 
a 4-speed Portable Hi-Fi Stereo Set, “The Waltz” by 
RCA Victor. Or, you may still win a Tempest! (See 
official claiming rules on reverse of your license 
plate, and observe claiming dates given above.)
(10 CONSOLATION 
PRIZES, TOO!)
1.
2,
3.
4.
5.
B159345 
A063168 
C625641 
B898060 
C479646
CONSOLATION 
PRIZE NUMBERS’
1. B258729
2. C0656953. A0145054. C40388T5. C001596
6 C2334127. C375972
8. B3983449. A487788 
10. A121605
IiM GRAND PRIX50
Sweepstakes for colleges only
More than 50 times the chance to win than if open to the general public.
45 Tempests to go!
Get set for the next lap ... 10 more Tempests and 
15 more consolation prizes! Pick up an entry blank 
where you buy cigarettes. Enter now—enter often.
Any entry received by January 18th can win one of 
the 45 Tempests still to go! Of course, entries 
you’ve already submitted are still in the running!
EXCLUSIVE FOR THE GIRLS!
If you win a Tempest you may choose instead a thrilling ex­
pense paid 2 week Holiday in 
Europe —for two! Plus $500 in cash!
Get with the winners...far ahead in smoking satisfaction!
SEE THE PONTIAC TEMPEST AT YOUR NEARBY PONTIAC DEALER!
On CampuswithMaxShuIman
(Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf7’, “The Man9 
Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.)
HAPPY TALK
As we all know, conversation is terribly important on a date. 
When lulls in the conversation run longer than an hour or two, 
one’s jiartner is inclined to grow logy—even sullen. But oc­
casionally one finds it difficult to keep the talk going, especially 
when one is having a first date with one. What, then, does one do?
If one is wise, one follows the brilliant example of Harlow Thurlow.
Harlow Thurlow prepares. That is his simple secret. When 
Harlow is going to take out a new girl, he makes sure in advance 
that the conversation will not languish. Before the da,te, lie 
goes to the library and reads all 24 volumes of the encyclof>edia 
and transcribes their contents 011 his cuffs. Thus he makes sure 
that 110 matter what his date’s interests are, he will have ample 
material to keep the conversation alive.
Take, for example, Harlow’s first date with Priscilla de 
Gasser, a fine, strapping, blue-eyed broth of a girl, lavishly 
constructed and rosy as the dawn.
Harlow was, as always, prepared when he called for Priscilla, 
and, as always, he did not start to converse immediately. First 
he took her to dinner because, as everyone knows, it is useless 
to try to make conversation with an unfed coed. Her attention 
span is negligible. Also, her stomach rumbles so loud it is diffi­
cult to make yourself heard.
¦ 6)
Fo he took her to a fine steak house where he stoked her wi th 
gobbets of Black Angus and mounds of French frier- and thick­
ets of escarole and battalions of petit fours. Then, at last, 
dinner was over and the waiter brought two finger bowls.
“I hope you enjoyed your dinner, my dear,” said Harlow, 
dipping into his finger bowl.
“Oh, it was grandy-dandy!” said Priscilla. “Now let’s go 
someplace for ribs."
“Later, perhaps,” said Harlow. “But right now, I thought 
we might have a conversation.”
“Oh, goody, goody, two-shoes!” cried Priscilla. “I l>een 
looking everywhere for a boy who ean carry on a intelligent 
conversation.”
“Your search is ended, madam,” said Harlow, and pulled 
back his sleeves and looked at his cuffs to pick a likely topic to 
start the conversation.
Oh, woe! Oh, lackaday! Those cuffs on which Harlow had 
painstakingly transcribed so many facts -those cuffs on which 
he had noted such diverse and fascinating information—those 
cuffs, I say, were nothing now but a big, blue blur! For Harlow 
—poor Harlow!—splashing around in the finger bowl, had gotten 
his cuffs wet and the ink had run and not one word was legib lei 
And Harlow—poor Harlow!—looked upon his cuffs and broke 
out in a night sweat and fell dumb.
“I must say,” said Priscilla after several silent hours, “tiiat 
you are a very dull fellow. I’m leaving.”
With that she flounced away and poor Harlow was too 
crushed to protest. Sadly he sat and sadly lit a cigarette.
All of a sudden Priscilla came rushing back. “Was that,” sho 
asked, “a Marlboro you just lit?”
“Yes,” said Harlow.
“Then you are not a dull fellow,” she cried, and sprang into 
his lap. “You are bright! Anybody is bright to smoke such % 
perfect joy of a cigarette as Marlboro which is just chock full 
of yummy flavor, which has a Selectrate filter which comes in % 
soft pack that is really soft, and a Hip-Top Box that really flifw, 
and which can l>e bought wherever cigarettes are sold in all fifty 
states and Duluth . . . Harlow, tiger, wash your cuffs and 
be my love.”
“Okay,” said Harlow, and did, and was.
The makers of Marlboro cigarettes. who print tfu* column 
at hideous expense throughout the school year, are cerg 
happy for liarlou>—and for all the rest of you who h*o* dim- 
covered the pleasure* of

---------------------------------------------------

P»«e 4 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, December 12, 1962
eLANSCAGP
Students! Make Your Voice Heard
Thanksgiving is over and Christmas will 
soon be here. How the days do fly by after 
that Thanksgiving vacation. After nine long 
weeks of continuous school, it was a wel­
come relief to forget books for a few days 
during Thanksgiving. This was a time to re­
lax, a time to see one’s family, visit friends 
and relatives, and to enjoy those recreation­
al activities for which college life does not 
leave time. One could then return with re­
newed vigor, knowing that there were only 
three or four more weeks until a long 
Christmas vacation. Certainly everyone who 
has gone to Tech has looked forward to and 
enjoved Thanksgiving vacation.What a shame that there will be none next year and perhaps the year after and for many years to come.
Last spring an editorial appeared con­
cerning this same issue—the abolition of 
Thanksgiving vacation. Then there was an 
opportunity to alter the plans for the ’63-’64 
school year; now there is essentially none. 
It may even be too late for ’64-’65.
Why was no action taken? This is more 
important to the average Tech student than 
debating the pros and cons of activities and 
school spirit which has occurred so frequent­
ly in this newspaper. Don’t students care? I 
think not; they care, but fail to act until 
the fact becames a reality.Administrative policy cannot be handled like course work; one cannot expect to catch
-.CA.RN ERGI.
up the night before the test.
Next fall the entire campus will bemoan 
the injustice that students must suffer at the 
hands of the administration. Hogwash! If the 
students’ case is not heard it is because they 
have failed to present it. Why have Stu­
dent Congress or the Tartan? To pass out 
commuter parking permits; to announce 
club meetings?
Student opinions are supposed to be ex­
pressed through these organs! Any inef­
fectiveness to achieve student ends is entire­
ly the result of a lack of expression not a 
lack of the means of expression.
Just as the politician requires many 
votes for election, so too student opinions re­
quire many voices to be heard. Those who 
do not vote are actually relinquishing their 
rights to those who do, and right now the 
administration is casting all of the ballots.By acting now, Tech students have the opportunity to regain what is rightfully theirs — a Thanksgiving vacation. In the calendar now proposed only Thanksgiving Day itself is provided for as a holiday. In return one day will be added to Easter vaca­tion and a half-day vacation preceeding Fall Festival will be retained.
Is this satisfactory to the students? Would 
they be willing to sacrifice one of these days 
to regain at least the Friday following 
Thanksgiving? Render your opinion; it will 
be heard and considered. M.N.A.
Women, Christmas Bring Comments
Editor, The Tartan,
Now that the days until the Christmas vacation are few, 
there has been a change in a traditional Christmas story. 
This version expresses the feelings of many students of CIT.
I respectfully submit this as an opinion of the last day 
before vacation.
Albert H. Bates, Jr.E.E. 1966
The Night Before Thursday (Dec. 20)
Twas the night before Thursday,
And all across Tech,
Every creature was stiring,
His packing to check.
Each Freshman was nestled 
All snug in his room,
With visions of freedom
That he would have soon.
My room mate, now packed,
Sat with ticket in fist,
While I sat there thinking
Of the home that I missed.
When all across Tech
Every person soon knew.
“There’s one day of classes 
Before we are through !”
Away to my desk
I flew like a streak.
“The first time I’ve studied 
In over a week.”
The moon shown so brightly 
O’er the campus serene.
And I said to myself,
“What a beautiful scene.”
When what to my wondering 
Eyes should appear,
But a miniature sleigh
And eight tiny reindeer,
With a little old driver 
So lively and such,
I knew in a moment 
He must be a lush.
Now this little drunk
Tied his team to a tree,
And went to his work
With apparent great glee.
One box he planted
Inside of Scaife Hall.
Another he left
At Machinery Hall.
He left one at AH,
EH and so,
Only Fine Arts was left 
Along with Skibo.
The buildings exploded 
With one great blast.
“No classes tomorrow !”
He yelled as he passed.
And he yelled as he sped
Through the snow smoke filled light,
“Merry Christmas to all and to all a good night! ’
A Candle in the Darkness
By Jeffrey Axelrad
Is World 
Ready For Peace?
Adler Discounts 
Women’s Voice
Editor, The Tartan:
Two items appearing in stu­
dent publications this week de­
serve comment and reaction.
The first is Marilyn Miller— 
Mosier’s challenge in the Tech­
nical. If it is true that women 
fill most editorial positions on 
student publications (your own 
esteemed paper being the excep­
tion), things have come to a 
sorry pass indeed. Not only will 
women soon be running Tech, 
much as they run America, but 
they will be doing so, as they 
do most things, badly. But, we 
can look on the brighter side of 
things after all. If Women are 
indeed the true leaders in Amer­
ica, they are only justly re­
ceiving proper leadership train­
ing here at Tech. I therefore 
suggest appropriate changes in 
the C.I.T. catologue. And if the 
deans do not like this state of 
affairs, I suggest they come to 
the International Club.
The second is Kadi Kadish’s 
rather silly letter on disarma­
ment which appeared in the 
Tartan last week. Her attitudes 
are an aberration of true radi­
cal views; they lack courage, 
the mark of the real liberal, and 
they lack pragmatic realism.
The distinction may be ju­
venile, but we must look at 
“who started it.” The Cuban 
revolution was originally re­
garded with much favor by the 
U.S.A. It lost this support by 
being offensive and provoking. 
Truely, the United States ig­
nored Cuba’s moves to subvert 
Latin America, trade with Rus­
sia, and make anti-American 
statements for as long as it 
could. And Cuba went on doing 
these things deliberately, know­
ing it was creating an unbear­
able, potentially critical situa­
tion. These things do not mark 
the U.S. as the aggressor, or 
Cuba as the offended party.
“Ban the Bomb” is in the 
process of being discredited, 
here and abroad. Miss Kadish 
should leave for a place which 
is safe (as did Ban the Bombers 
in England during the Cuban 
crisis) and leave us to stay who 
would rather whip the yelping 
Cuban poodle rather than be its 
fire-hydrant.
Michael Adler
“Peace” groups periodically demand that the nations 
of the world “beat their swords into plowshares,” or some­
thing to that effect. However these groups have not yet, to 
my knowledge, come up with a workable plan for changing 
the world to peace. As ridiculous as it seems, a return to 
peace — an end to the cold war — would create serious 
problems.
For instance, how would U.S. industry be adapted to 
peacetime uses? Would defense contracts simply be dis­
continued? This would put a large portion of the state of 
California out of work, and would create serious unem­
ployment nationwide. How would the changeover from 
an over 50 billion dollar defense budget to a small allocation 
affect the economy as a whole—would it cause a protracted 
depression? It is time that some group suggested answers 
to these questions.
Russia, too, would have its problems. Today the aver­
age Russian is spurred on with exhortations to surpass the 
United States industrially, and the Chinese citizen is kept 
working by continual hate campaigns. How would the 
Communist states adjust psychologically to the need to no 
longer talk of revolution, and accept the present world 
order as unchangable—at least for the present? (Eventual­
ly civilization will change,of course.) These problems block 
the Communist leaders from accepting any true disarma­
ment proposals today even if they want to do otherwise. 
It will have to be shown that a satisfactory alternative is 
open to them.
If disarmament were achieved, how would it be kept? 
A U.N. police force does not seem practical. Neither Russia 
nor the U.S. would trust it. Certainly the major powers 
would engage in ‘•'friendly” competition—but how is this 
competition going to be presented from developing into 
‘‘unfriendly” competition? A solution to these problems 
must be one that is operable today “for the world can not 
wait some future millennium with atomic stockpiles grow­
ing now.
The peace groups shout that the trend toward war must 
be stopped or a catastrophe is imminent. They are undoubt­
edly correct. If a nuclear war occurs, the destruction caused 
will set theworld back generations — especially since the 
destruction will occur mainly in the more “advanced” 
countries. However, simply repeating warnings of the hor­
rors of war is not accomplishing anything. Instead of pure­
ly negative criticism of the arms race, these groups should 
present a detailed realistic plan for convertingeach nation 
to peace. This would be merely a starting point. But at 
least it would open a new channel of discussion and, just as 
important, offer a new hope. Any positive stepswould make 
the “peace” groups more effective than they are today. If 
they remain dogmatic, they will not further their cause.
<*CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECMNOLOOV
Offices: Skibo. Room 50, Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
Office phone MU. 2-4557; Editor-in-Chief MU. 2-0407; 
Business Manager, MU. 2-9580; Advertising Manager, MA. 1- 
1504; Managing Editor, MA. 1-6610. Published weekly during 
the school year except holidays and Examination periods by 
the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pgh. 13, Pa.
Annual Subscription Rate $2.50 
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh. Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising. Inc.
Editor-in-chief ......................................Martin Ackermann
Executive Editor .....................................Elaine Grumer
Managing Editor ...........................................Fritz Klinke
Business Manager ......................................Miron Straf
News Editor ................................................Joyce HolyAssistant News Editor..............................Margie Park
Features Editor .....................................B. J. Zimnewicz
Copy Editor ................................................Anne MoserAdvertising Manager.............................Charles HoFook
Sports Editor ......................................... John BlueLayout Editor .............................................Allan* Pollock
Secretarial Editor ............................Miriam Gillespie
Circulation Editor .............................Mike Greenawalt
Editorial Board: Mark Applebaum, Colin Jones, Margie Park, Henry Henderson, 
and B.J. Zimnewicz
Layout Staff: Fritz Klinke, A1 Pollock, Nancy Cameron, Mike McCoy, Drew 
Lippay, Marion Mulligan, Ann Carten, Holly Lawerence.
News Staff: Colin Jones, Marty Moore, Fay Landau, Frank Brady, Gladys Stal- 
insky, Jaye Lapidus, Ellie Denberg, Miriam Gillespie, Marion Mulligan, Lois 
Elinoff, Janice Lester, Jam Leone, Maity Sauer, Chuck Steinmeyer, Peggy 
Riva. Judi Meyers, Jan Scharp, Marty Siegel, Sally Sheats. Sandy Lancaster, 
Cindy Wolfson, Ellen Hamill, Nancy Adams, Sandy Byrne.
Sports: Scott McCormick, Ken Kantrowitz.
Photography: Rick Blackburn,• Russ Steinebaugh
Secretarial Staff: Betsy Bellows, Mary Breitenslein. Jean Cline, Susan Witt
Cireolation: Tom Johnson. George Kail and Jay Priest
Features Staff: Andrea Nether, Joan Hoexter, Jane Skeehan, Ruth Geshekten, 
Susan Crytzer, Perry Axarlis, Nadalyn Goldberg, Ken Lieberman, Jeffrey 
Axelrad, Marion Mulligan, Judy Meyers, Lynn Mahler, Jennifer Low, Matt 
Nesvisky, Matt Swetonic, Mart,v Sauer, Irene Grandberg, OUie Donaldson.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, December 12, 1962 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Page 5
Bible Exhibit 
Shows Valuable 
Rare Editions
An exhibition of Bibles, de­
signed to illustrate the history of 
TSible printing and typography is 
being shown at the Hunt Botoni- 
cal Library, through Wednesday, 
December 19.
The exhibit, sponsored by the 
Pittsburgh Bibliophiles, includes 
an original leaf of the Gutenberg 
Bible, and more than a score of 
Bibles of various versions and 
editions in several languages 
"printed prior to 1800.
The exhibition will be open to 
the public on the afternoons of 
December 12 and 19.GmL NS N.AmO2 N.T4 RGAL AN LALmfN .GvT G YKmINASmyf
Fraternity: Sorority- The Other Side
¡»President Calls For Adjustment 
Of Fraternities To Changes
«
In many universities, especially 
the best ones, fraternities are on 
the down-grade, but they can be 
i a constructive force in campus 
and academic life, and a decided 
i asset to their members if they 
pffoiake the adjustment necessary to
i prosper in the modern academic 
world, according to Dr. J. C. War­
ner.
Speaking before a luncheon 
meeting of the National Interfra­
ternity Conference at the Hilton 
Hotel-, Pittsburgh Friday, Nov. 30, 
Dr. Warner said that the fact that 
approximately half of Carnegie 
Tech’s chapters have already 
made this adjustment and are do­
ling a first-rate job proves that it 
can be done.
“The Golden Age of fraterni­
ties,” the Carnegie Tech president 
said, “was roughly between the 
Civil War and World War I in an 
environment which was consider­
ably different from today.” In that 
period, he pointed out, colleges 
and universities did not accept 
certain responsibilities such as 
housing, and the social and per- 
J^sonai development of the student. 
Nor did the colleges and univer­
sities place the great value on re­
search and discovery of new 
knowledge, or high stanadrds of 
admission, that they do now.
However, Dr. Warner said, col­
leges and universities are now ac­
cepting these responsibilities, and 
the result calls for a change in 
the role of the fraternity on the 
college campus. “Each fraternity 
v chapter,” he said, “must adjust 
its goals and aspirations so that 
in actual practice they are con­
sonant with the goals of the col­
lege or university of which it is 
a part.”
Dr. Warner cautioned that 
while fraternity leaders seriously 
concerned with this matter have 
set forth an admirable Decalog of 
Fraternity Policy and Principles of 
v Action, the goals, ideas, and stan­
dards set forth in these policies 
rarely become reality in the op­
eration of a fraternity chapter.
“As a fraternity member and 
university president, “Dr. War­
ner said, “I worry about the fol­
lowing:
l.That, in general, fraternities
hLEWIS
s—jct/eBe-nsc- -ty
s—jctU 
McDM acjeBcnd 
neBepcUctr 
se-tsj oB—desU
Sales - Repairs
115 Oakland Ave.
V—y «/»u««
seem to prosper the least and 
indeed seem to have the least 
probability of survival at those 
colleges and universities which 
have the most distinction as 
centers of learning and for high 
academic standards.
2. That in many institutions too 
many of those students possess­
ing the best combination of 
academic ability and talent for 
leadership are not interested in 
fraternity membership; and too 
many of the students who do 
belong to fraternities prefer not 
to live in the fraternity house 
and are reluctant to take re­
sponsible positions as leaders.
3. That, according to reports, in 
a substantial number of colleges
and universities the fraction of 
the student body interested in 
fraternity membership is de­
clining.
4. That the fraternity system is 
being condemned or at least 
frowned upon by most Human 
Rights Commissions, by a grow­
ing number of Fair Educational 
Opportunities Laws, and by a 
number of college presidents. 
“Lest you gain the impression 
that I’m predicting the early nec­
essity of making funeral arrange­
ments for the fraternity system, 
however, “Dr. Warner concluded, 
“let me hasten to say that many 
college presidents and deans join 
me in the optimistic view that if 
we sincerely endeavor to give 
some attention, guidance, and en­
couragement to fraternities and 
sororities, and if they are willing 
to adjust to the modern academic 
world, they still have a useful, 
substantial role to play on the 
majority of campuses.”
Dr. Slavin, Guest Speaker 
Favors Fraternities. Sororities
Dr. Richard H. Slavin, professor 
and head of the department of 
economics at Bethany College, W. 
Virginia, was the speaker at 
Sigma Nu on November 30. Also 
active in community affairs, Dr. 
Slavin serves as mayor of the 
town of Bethany. The Sigma Nu’s 
invited economist Slavin to be a 
guest speaker as one of a series 
of visitors whose talks will pro­
vide a springboard for thoughts 
and discussion.
In a time when several national 
magazines have taken special 
pains to predict the death of fra­
ternities and sororities, this edu­
cator was able to give a realistic 
appraisal of the value of the 
Greek system.
Specifically, he stated that fra­
ternities can be of definite value 
in the areas of companionship, so­
cial training, and leadership train­
ing.
The first of these, though obvi­
ous, is very important, Dr. Slavin 
explained, because most students 
inadvertently seek a group with 
which to associate. (On some 
campuses, even the “independent” 
students have organized!) By be­
coming part of a close-knit 
brotherhood, fraternity men share 
the rare experience of working, 
playing, and living with a wide
variety of individuals united un­
der a set of common ideals.
Acquisition and practice of so­
cial ease were also listed as ad­
vantages of fraternity member­
ship. The ability to handle one­
self and others in all types of 
situations come only with prac­
tice. The value of such ability 
must not be underestimated, no 
matter what one’s field of en­
deavor.
The third major function of fra­
ternities, leadership training, Dr. 
Slavin indicated, is perhaps, the 
most important. Every college 
student will be a leader in society 
due to his advanced training, but 
it is the fraternities which en­
courage an active and responsible 
role for their members on the 
campus and within the chapter. 
Being a good leader, like being at 
ease in the company of others, 
comes only with practice.
Dr. Slavin concluded with com­
ments to the effect that, though 
there are admitted drawbacks to 
any fraternity systems, its educa­
tional value cannot be overlooked. 
Fraternities provide training in 
the three areas mentioned at a 
time in the student’s life when it 
is best utilized, and this may be 
the last opportunity for such 
training.
UMteUUMteU
WALLYS
SCTUON k FCHLR.A
Women Men
UMteU
UV—sn -—Uì—BU
Bt—aesU
aB—nU
jseUU UMteU
MìUM / oìooceU 
Bt—aesU 
V—UU—Dc- 
aBtsUMecV
U.S. KEDS
3612 FORBES AVE. (Across from Strand Theatei)
This Week in Pittsburgh
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 12
Professor Chris Argyris of Yale University will speak 
to the G.S.I.A. Faculty Seminar on the subject of 
“People, Organizations, and Problem Solving.” Stu­
dents are invited to the G.S.I.A.Lounge 8:00-9:30 p.m.
Dr. G. I. Ansoif, V. President and General Manager of 
the Lockheed Electronics Company will speak on the 
topic “Business Planning” at 3:30 in Room 225, 
G.S.I.A. Facultyand students are invited.
William Steinbert, conductor of the Pittsburgh Sym­
phony Orchestra, will speak at the Music Department 
Convocation in the Little Theatre at 12:30 p.m. He 
will answer previously submitted questions relat­
ing to the field of music. Students and faculty are 
invited.THURSDAY, DECEMBER 13
Film Arts — “Gentleman’s Agreement (U.S., 1947) 
Directed by Elia Kazan, screenplay by Moss Hart, 
starring Gregory Peck.FRIDAY, DECEMBER 14; SUNDAY, DECEMBER 16
Pittsburgh Sj^mphony — Symphony No. 49 in f minor, 
“Sa Passione”, Hayden; Symphony No. 35 in D 
Mayor, * “Haffner”, Mozart; Violin Concerta, Bee­
thoven. Violinist, Zino Francescatti.SATURDAY, DECEMBED 15
The College — Community Orchestra under the direc­
tion of Sidney Harth will present a concert at 8:30 
p.m. in Carnegie Music Hall. The program will in­
clude the following:
Rosamund Overture------------Schubert
Symphony No. 4---------Dvork
Symphony No. 5  ------ShostakovichMONDAY, DECEMBER 17
The annual Christmas Service will be held in Heinz 
Chapel at 9:00 p.m. Special music will be presented 
by Sigma Alpha Iota and Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia.CONTINUING EVENTS
CIT — Hewlett Gallery — Drawing by Peter Jenkyn 
Skibo Lobby — Photographs of Moscow by Joseph 
Singer of the Bureau of Mines 
Third floor of Fine Arts — Exhibit of second 
year design students.
Scaife Hall — Student painting.
FULTON — “Manchurian Candidate” Frank Sinatra, 
Janet Leigh.
STANLEY — “Boccaccio 70” Anita Ekberg, Sophia 
Loren
SQUIRREL HILL — “Operation Snatch” Terry Thomas
SHADSIDE — “The Island”
PLAYHOUSE — “Who’ll Save the Plowboy”, Theatre 
Upstairs. “Write Me a Murder”, Hamlet Street Stairr,
Senior Scholastic Honorary 
Elects 29 New Members
Phi Kappa Phi, the senior scho­
lastic honorary, has announced 
the results of the 1962 fall elec­
tions. Each fall the honorary calls 
ten percent of the top twelve per­
cent of the senior class.
Th3 officers of Phi Kappa Phi 
are the following faculty mem­
bers: Professor Robert Rothfus, 
President; Miss Betty Jane Lloyd, 
Chairman Elect; Dean Strick, Sec­
retary; and Protessor E. Gaylord, 
Treasurer.
The purpose of the honorary is 
“to recognize and encourage high 
performance in scholastic man­
ners.”
The following seniors were 
elected to membership this fall:
From the College of Engineer­
ing and Science: James N. Breck-
er, Owen Cecil, William Evanco, 
Thomas B. Garrett, Frank S. 
Jones, Charles W. Koman, Ray­
mond Kubalak, James H. Morris, 
Paul Ossip, 9Elliott Philofsky, 
Robert E. Revay, Paul C. Rizzo, 
Robert Rosenberg, Judith Suhay, 
A. Wayne Tamarelli, Janet L. 
Williamson.
From the College of Fine Arts: 
Ralph Bluhm, Dorothy Gantos, 
Judith Geder, Raymond Gindroz, 
Fred Gottemoeller, Elaine Hinkel, 
Gordon Ketterer, Susan Priestly, 
James Stivanson.
From Margaret Morrison: Elaine 
Grumer, Sandra Lancaster, Elaine 
Vezzani, Marilyn Whntaker.
From Industrial Management: 
Clinton Anglin, Bruce Becker, 
Gordon Ewald, and Allan Kullen.
A MODERN CLASSIC SCULPTURED IN 18 KARAT GOLD 
BUDGET TERMS TOO.
YU.—GCP SR.AGI h.RTN oLR SLPP.t. YIOA.bIN
John M. Roberts & Son
Downtown Mt. Lebanon
East Hills Shopping Center

---------------------------------------------------

P«e * — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, December 12. IKS
Tartan Basketball Team Out shoots 
Waynesburg To Achieve First Win
UGE -KhhR RNCTNI.TR2 FKN mSN YGC TmSKb. NS 
RmGb CTFSKmL GbGAmRN NGPPTC ShhSmTmNy
I.M. Volleyball 
Playoffs End
The first round of the I M. 
Volleyball playoffs have finished | 
and the four favorites have moved 
into the semi-final spots. TDP j 
and the Grad Eagles had a bye in i 
the first round while ATO and 
SAE defeated two independent 
teams to gain their spots. SAE ; 
knocked off the Dunkers in two [ 
straight games 15-8. and 15-3, but j 
ATO was extended more than a j 
little before topping the Trojans 
15-11. 11-15, and 15-3.
The two teams that made it 
through the semi-finals last night 
will go for the championship to- j 
morrow night in the gym at 8:00 
P.M. the consolation game will be 
at 7:00 P.M.
All four teams in the semi­
finals boast strong, well balance 
teams but, though when you read ; 
this, I may be wrong. Tau Delta j 
Phi and the Grad Eagles seem to j be a little stronger than either ; 
ATO or SAE. Led by all school 
spikeers Mike Yablon and John 
Borofsky, and all school setters 
Tom Ference and Walt Horn, the ; 
Tau Delts have a good shot at 
a second consecutive volleyball 
trophy. Steve Berliner and Marty 
Skowron round out TDP’s start­
ing six.
So whoever makes the finals, 
the Tech gym will see some top 
flight volleyball tonight beginning 
at seven o’clock. See you 4here.
FINAL STANDINGS
SET LEAGUE
TDP ‘ Blue”60
Trojans51
BTP ‘ A**42
DTD24
SAE “Gold"24
Hustlers24
DU0*
SERVE
ATO
UAGl'l
6•
Dunkers31
PKT42
BTP ’B"33
BSR24
Sitinta Nu15
TX0«
SPIKE
Grand Ea*le>
LEAGUE
60
Marauders42
PS1 Clodsi
EC Grads24
KS15
ATO T~9«
by JOHN BLUE
Coach Mel Castley’s Tartan bas­
ketball team evened their sea­
son’s record at 1-1 as they out- 
shot the Waynesburg Yellow jac­
kets. 65-59. last Wednesday night 
on the losers floor.
Sparked by George Frazier and 
Jules Borkowski, the team shot 41 
per cent from the floor and 74
per cent from the foul line to
overcome a Yellow jacket height 
advantage. Frazier wound up high 
man for both teams with 20
points, followed by Borkowski 
with 14. High for Waynesburg
was Chadderton with 13.
Tech Hot
Tech opened the game with a 
fine exhibition of outside shots by 
Frazier and Borkowski. The Tar­
tans ran their lead to 10 mark­
ers at one point in the opening 
minutes, then cooled off and al­
lowed Waynesburg to work the 
ball in for the close-in shot.
by only 2. 29-27. Neither team 
could take the advantage by more 
than 2 points for a good while 
in the second half, and then 
Tech’s superior firepower took its 
toll. With 10 minutes left in the 
game, the Tech lead was again 10, 
and again the Tartans frittered 
the lead away.
Werronen Hits
Waynesburg whittled it down 
to only 3 points at one time, but 
Hank Werronen sank 4 free 
throws with less than 2 minutes 
remaining to put Tech ahead for 
good.
Sam Cupps played perhaps his 
finest game in two years as he 
pumped in 10 points and hauled 
down 8 rebounds. Guard Grazier
proved to be Georgle-on-the-spot 
as he plucked 9 rebounds to lead ' 
the team.
Official Game Statistics 
Tech
feftaftperpia
Ritchie30004
Borköwski720414
Werronen25539
Frazier864420
Laird13244
Cupps432410
Morrison12234
Neidrä00000
2521152265
Waynesburg
Baer433311
Washington03333
Lowe13133
Leshore443411
Chadderton377213
Stohl•531111
1928211859
Halftime found the Plaid ahead
—INASm* rSH KmLTC —CE4 NTRN2 G aSCL/LTRAbmTL bPGRR YAPGETmN NSCRASm 
FGC N.GNfR PAb.NTC2 RNCSmbTC2 ESCT YPTwAFPT N.Gm RNTTP
"Looks like you’ve got something there,” the Army Tank 
Command said in effect to Ford Motor Company engineers. 
“Let’s do a feasibility study on tracklaying military vehicles."
The story begins in 1967 when Ford engineers conceived 
the idea of a plastic-bonded glass filament torsion bar for 
vehicle suspension systems. It was a revolutionary departure 
from the use of solid steel. It promised dramatic weight 
savings in battle tanks, in personnel carriers and other 
military vehicles. For example, as much as 1,000 pounds 
in medium tanks.
Compared to steel, the tubular-shaped glass filament com­
position has greater energy storage potential—is stronger 
and more flexible under heavy load. It may well prove to be 
the automobile suspension material of tomorrow . . . cars 
suspended on glass!
Another example of engineering leadership at Ford and 
new ideas for the American Road.
MOTOR COMPANY
The American Road, Deaf born, Michigan
rROOUCTS fOR THC AMERICAN HO AO • THI MOM 
TMC FA«« • IMOUSTRV • AMO THI A«C »f SPACtl

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, December li, 1962 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Page 7
Indiana State Squeezes By Tech 
Taking Advantage of Free Shots
by John Blue
Ah, tis a shame!
Tis a shame that the Tartan 
basketball team doesn't play un­
der the American Basketball 
League rule of three points for 
a 25 foot goal. Were it so, Tech 
would have handled Indiana State 
easily last Saturday night at the 
Tech gym.
But they don't, and they didn’t, 
and so the fianl score was Indi­
ana 64-Tech 61. Still, it took an 
unbeliveably poor 7-22 record at 
the foul line to cancel a number 
of beautiful long swishers by 
George Frazier and Ray Morrison 
to send Tech down in defeat.
The game itself was as erratic 
as a mountain road. Occasionally, 
Tech flashed signs of brilliance 
that would have been worthy of 
almost any college team, and at 
other times looked like a mediocre *high school aggregation.
Beane Bombs
Senior substitute A1 Beane, a 
six-footer from New Brighton, 
was the man that put the skids 
to Tech’s hope of winning their 
second in a row. Beane, who 
didn’t start the game, came in 
late in the first half and pro­
ceeded to toss in 20 points, high 
for both teams, with 16 coming 
in the second half.
tie it up. Tech didn’t score again 
in the half and went to the dress­
ing room all even at 30-30.
To start the second half, Fra­
zier flipped in a short one under 
the bucket, hit a foul shot, fed 
Borkowski for a 15 footer, and 
again it looked ar if Tech was 
going to surge convincingly ahead.
But it wasn’t to be so. Sloppy 
play cost Tech the lead at 37-36, 
and from tfcere, Indiana was “in 
like Flynn”. With A1 Beane look­
ing about as certain as death and 
taxes on his one hand jumper, 
Tech had .o fight back to stay 
within sight of the red-clad in­
vaders.
Swap Bask***“
From the 10 minute poin+ in 
the second on, Tech and Indiana 
swapped baskets, but the Tartans 
never were able to gain the upper 
hand. Frazier, Morrison, and Bor­
kowski we. e still hitting from 
outside at a respectable rate, but 
; couldn’t cope with the Indiana 
! gunners.
Tech began pressing with about 
two minutes to go, and Indiana 
| countered with a slow down. The 
; Tartans were forced to foul in or- 
; der to get the ball, and Indiana 
: hit on the foul shots. Beane him- 
| self iced the game when he hit 
on three free throws with less
than a minute remaining, making 
the score an insurmountable 64- 
61.
On To W&J
Tech travels to Washington and 
Jefferson tonight to battle the 
Prexies from Washington, Pa. A 
week from tonight will find the 
Westminister Owls at the Tech 
gym to see if they can improve 
on their already gaudy record. 
Westminster, the top rated small 
college quintet in the country, has 
a 4-0 record as of last Sunday, 
and few teams look strong enough 
to blemish it.
Official Game Statistics 
Tech
fga fg ita ft reb per ptsBorkowski136828514Frazier209317319Werronen4421619Laird20o2612Ritchie21Ì0132Cupps1041541Morrison135101310Thomas1000000Neidra0000110McGeary2200504
58 27
Indiana
227402161
Zilko5154406Dancy3021331Ben hart823393. 7Makinen6200344Sinclair205635113Beane1461097020Hankinson6352518Smith2011131Schmidt1000010Bence2210314—67213322401764
—Photo by Rick Blackburn
,KPTR iSCOSHROA Kh GmL Am YSC NHS GbGAmRN cmLAGmG UNGNTy
ats hyih mKh-i YemSnir lnFh y y y lmhSOMETHING DIFFERENT . . . EXOTIC like Handscraited Jewelry Kimonis — Happicoats — Chinaware — Figurines — Party Favors Lanterns — Art Supplies — Fortune Cookies— Incense — Novelties
10% DISCOUNT TO STUDENTSBUDDHA GIFT SHOP
109 Meyran Ave., Between Forbes and Fifth in Oakland
Tied at Half
Long shots_ weren’t enough for 
Tech, as Indiana Avas generally 
playing heads up ball, taking ad­
vantage of loose balls and mom­
entary lapses in the Tech defense 
to score. John Sinclair of Indi­
ana stuffed in a layup with 28 
seconds to go in the first half to
Internationals 
Sport Unbeaten 
Volleyball Record
The strong Internationals, PiKA, 
and SAE still sport unbeaten rec­
ords as the IM socer season came 
close to winding up. Those 
“crackpots” you have seen on the 
IM fields kicking a ball through 
the snow are really some pretty 
good soccer players contending for 
the IM soccer championship.
STANDINGS
League A
Internationals 6 0 0
BTP -A” 3 10
DTD 2 11
TDP ‘-Blue" «20
Sigma Nu 12 0
BSR - 12 1
PiKA "Gold” 0 4 0
League B
PiKA "Garnet” 4 0 0
SAE 4 0 0
Architects 2 3 0
DU 0 10
KS 12 2
Trojans 13 0
BTP "B” 1 3 1
Tech’s ‘Iron Five,” Werronen, 
Borkowski, Ritchie, Laird, and 
Frazier started the game and for 
a while looked as if they were 
going to make a rout of it. With 
* Frazier hitting two long ones and 
Werronen rebounding and shoot­
ing well, Tech jumped to a 14-7 
lead with six minutes gone "n the 
first half. Indiana, using a pass 
twice and fire offense, made a 
comeback but were staved off by 
the long shots of Ray Morrison 
and Frazier.
“Tarey ton’s Dual Filter in duas partes divisa est!”
says Marius (Gay Blade) Camillus of the Forum Fencing Team. Says Gay Blade, “Anyone on terra firma 
will agree Tareyton is a firma, fina cigarette—packed with tobacco bono. No wonder you enjoy de gustibus you 
never thought you'd get from any filter cigarette 
Dual Filter makes the difference
DUAL FILTER
- NlBk,oy û ko kouchTareyton
u i*r mtddit •mw £> * • ^
Hungry for 
fla vor? 
Tareyton's 
gol il!

---------------------------------------------------

hotel
, WEBSTER HALL
7 'Out/ }
TONITE AT THE
P»ge g _ THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, December 12, 1962
Tech Tankmen Lose To Grove City 
But Team Exhibits Future Promise
of the sixteen in Saturday s meet, 
have given the team much needed 
depth at all events and a strong 
sense of intrasquad competition. 
Tfeis week Tech will travel to 
W&J and Western Reserve in 
search of its first win. The next 
home meet is on January 12, 1963.
Plan now for your
BERMUDA
College Week 
1963
bigger, busier, 
better than ever!—Photo by Kick BlackburnUHAEETCR MAN N.T HGNTC Am N.T nTI. / DCSvT -AN4 ETTNy
The Tartan tankmen opened Lester and frosh Frank Wyman 
their season against Grove City took seconds in the 200 Individual 
last Saturday, December 8, at the Medley and Butterfly, respective- 
Tech pool. The powerhouse Grov- ly. Freshmen Randy French, Bill 
ers who were undefeated last year Burdett, John Bennett, Dave 
and won the Penn-Ohio Cham- Specht, and junior Clayton Pond 
pionship meet for the past two rounded out the Tech scoring, 
seasons, gained a strong lead at With only four experienced up- 
the initial event and built up to perclassmen competing, the brunt 
their final margain of 73 points of the load naturally falls on one 
against Tech’s 22. of the previously mentioned, the
Considering their opposition, newcome | who will see much 
probably the strongest team on action this year are upperclass- 
Tech’s schedule, Tech’s freshmen, men Nick Trbovich and Bill 
many without previous competi- Hartlep, and freshmen Bruce Bell, 
tive experience, displayed excel- Steve Easley and Steve Rosen- 
lent promise for the future. Al- blatt. Upperclassmen Tom Snow 
though the Wolverines copped and Alex Speyer round out the 
each event, the Tartans took five squad. The newscomers, twelve
second places and seven third ------------------------------------------------------
places. Grove City won both the
400 freestyle and medley relays, n L
seriouslv challenging pool records B a L
in each. HGl/fj €3 fi
Freshman Gary Andrews led | I W WE I *
all Tech scorers with second “¦
place in the 200 and 500 yard * >. ............ «¦ •, <
freestyle events. Both events are (
now in the lineup this year, re- |
placing the 220 and 440. There­
fore, automatically, Grove City’s
McClintic, who won the two .' * ||¥
events, set new pool records of x
2:07.3 and 5:57.4 seconds. An- % , •
drews unofficially was clocked in £ " "
2:07.8 in the 200. Captain Tom t |||
Brunson was second in the 100 f
freestyle and third in the 50. Len j::. - :
Informal welcoming dance to start the fun.
College Day at the Beach . . . the biggest beach party of the year.
All-day cruise to historic St. George. Luncheon. Calypso music. Gombey Dancers.
Round Robin Tennis Tournament. 
College Talent Revue.
Fun Festival with jazz concert», choral groups, dance contests.
Barbecue Luncheon.
Sightseeing.
Special Tennis Trophies.
ALL YOURS AT NO CHARGE
The BERMUDA
Trade Development Board 
620 Fifth Av«„ New York 20, N.Y.
Don’t be a meat-head! Get Vitalis with V-7. It 
keeps your hair neat all day without grease,
Naturally. V-7® is the greaseless grooming discovery. 
Vitalis® with V-7 fights embarrassing dandruff, prevents 
dryness, keeps your hair neat all day without grease. Try it!
^You’ll rate with 
||^)your date...
For a meal or just 
a snack-put Hotel 
Webster Hall on your 
close- to-campus entertain­
ment schedule.
4415 RM» Avmv« Pittsburgh! 3, Po. T>l*phoo>: MAyHowf 1-7700
Starting Today, Dec. 18 
Thors., Frl., Sat. 
Brigit Bardot 
Marcello Mastroianni 
A VERY PRIVATE 
AFFAIR 
alto Kirk Douglas 
Edward G. Robinson 
in cinemascope and color 
TWO WEEKS IN 
ANOTHER TOWN
WESt; COAST
Starting San.. Dee. 16 
Mon., Tues.
Stewart Granger 
Deborrah Kerr 
KING SOLOMON’S MINES 
also James Stewart 
THE NAKED SPl'RTURKISH & DOMESTIC §U BLEND In.T FTRN NSFGIIS EGOTR N.T FTRN RESOT5
© l!M»2 R. J. Reynold« Tobacco Company. WuutM-SalMb N. C.
Starting Wed., Dee. 19 
Kirk Douglas In 
SPARTACU8
