Musical Clubs Home 
Concert and Dance 
Friday, March 17
International Night 
At Carnegie Music 
Hall Tonight
VOL. XVI. NO. 25CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH. PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY. MARCH 15, 1922
WORLD PEACE 
IS DISCUSSED 
AT ASSEMBLY
H. B. Swope, Editor of New 
York World, Discusses In­
ternational Relations. Prizes 
Offered to Students
MUSIC BY GLEE CLUB
“One lesson the -world is learning 
.as a result of the late war is that 
civilization must he ruled by forces 
of law and not by laws of force,” 
said Herbert Bayard Swope, editor of 
the New York World talking to stu­
dents of Carnegie Tech at their gen­
eral assembly in Carnegie Music 
Hall at noon yesterday. Mr. Swope 
was introduced to the audience, 
which filled practically the entire 
lower floor and balcony by Dr. Thos. 
©. Baker, acting president of Car­
negie Tech. The appearance of Mr1. 
Swope was greeted by a demonstra­
tion staged by some of the under­
graduate journalists as a tribute to 
the directing part the editor had 
played in the recent expose of the 
Ku Klux Klan. Six robed and hood­
ed figures filed silently and solemn­
ly down the aisle carrying aloft a 
giantic pen which they deposited at 
Swope’s feet and then bowed noise­
lessly away.
In introducing Mr. Swope Dr. 
Baker had referred to him as re­
porter, correspondent and editor. Mr. 
Swope in opening said he preferred 
to be known and to speak as a re­
porter because he suspects there is 
much in that old newspaper epigram 
which classes every reporter as a 
hope and every editor as a disappoint­
ment.
“The hope of the world today is for 
poace,” said Mr. Swope, “and it will 
not be a disappointed hope if the 
people will continue to make politici­
ans and statesmen feel the real senti­
ment for peace which exists. It was 
the crystallization of this feeling in
an endeavor to apply the lessons of
the war which forced the calling of
the recent conference on disarma­
ment. For a time it seemed as if this 
nation, in common with the other 
nations of the world was striving to 
prove anew that cynical adage that 
the victors take up the vices of the 
vanquished and the vanquished as­
sume the former virtues of the-vic­
tors. For a time the rattling of the 
sabre was again heard in Berlin and 
(Continued on Page Four.)
THE PINES, CHOSEN FOR
THREE SCHOOL BANQUET
OF JUNIOR CLASSES
Printing Dept, to 
Issue Bagpipe Soon
Members of Graphica Prepare 
Typographical Journal
The first issue of the Bagpipe for 
this scjiool year will be published im­
mediately before the Easter vacation. 
The Bagpipe, it will be remembered, 
is the official organ of the Department 
of Printing and is issued in the inter­
ests of better typography.
This number will be bigger and bet­
ter than ever as the enrollment of the 
department is much larger this year 
and the talent along typographical 
lines is steadily increasing. It will 
contain articles written by members 
of the department, specimens of work 
done in the printing classes, and will 
chronicle the important events occur­
ring ih the department this year.
The members of the Graphica Club, 
who are responsible for the editing 
and publishing of the magazine, are 
making extensive preparations for 
this issue in order that the reputation 
of the Department of Printing at Car­
negie Tech will remain as high in the 
minds of outsiders as it has in the 
past.
BUREAU WILL RECEIVE
APPLICATION FOR SUM­
MER EMPLOYMENT NOW
The Employment Office will now 
receive applications from students 
who desire to work during the sum­
mer vacation. Business conditions 
are improving slowly and from all 
indications there will be quite a few 
more openings this summer than last. 
The office is especially interested to 
know the location of work desired 
because if it is out of the City of 
of Pittsburgh it will necessitate cor­
respondence on the part of the Em­
ployment Bureau and this must be 
done early in order to have first 
choice, so be on the safe side and 
make your application now.
Architects Enter Contest
Thei Le Brun Traveling Scholar­
ship Competition was entered by two 
Carnegie architests. George Pauily 
and N. D. Kutcliukian submitted 
their solutions of “A Municipal Bath 
House" wlidch was the subject of 
the competition.
The competition was entered by 
a great number of architects, archi­
tectural draftsmen and students 
throughout the United States. The 
winner of the competition receives 
as his reward $1,400, the sum to 
aid him in paying the expenses of 
an European trip lasting not less 
than six nronths.
It is now definitely settled that the 
Three-School Junior Banquet will be 
held at the Pines on the 31st of 
March. The Pines is an ideal place 
for a class banquet, being large 
enough to accommodate a good size 
crowd and having an atmosphere 
about it which causes all serious 
thoughts to give way to ones more 
hilarious.
The committee is doing its best to 
arrange a program of entertainment 
which everyone will enjoy. A five- 
piece orchestra will furnish the mu­
sic and talfent from Design School 
and from out in town will give some 
little acts. A professor from each of 
the three schools will give a short 
talk.
Special cars will leave the Stanwix 
street station at 8 o’clock and short­
ly afterwards en route for the Pines.
JUNIOR CLASSES TO 
HOLD JOINT MEETING
Consolidation of Junior Class, 
Theme of the United 
Meeting
Inspired by an idea which has for 
sometime been prevalent on the cam­
pus the Junior Class of the College 
of Fine Arts at a meeting held on 
Thursday, March 9, discussed the 
proposition of uniting the Junior 
Classes of the four schools with the 
result that a resolution was passed 
favoring the idea. There was a 
strong desire to come into closer re­
lationship with the classes in the 
bther schools.
A movement of this kind is 
wise one and should be well consid­
ered. There are many reasons why 
the present Junior Classes can in­
augurate the idea this year. Each 
of the olilrer schools are greatly in 
favor of it and will see it through. 
It is proposed that a joint meeting 
be held on Friday, March 17, at 
12:20 in the Little Theater—to test 
the advisability of the consolidation.
In the plan suggested there would 
be no interference with the internal 
workings of the .¦•'• various classes, 
Each would have its officers, as at 
present, and each would function as 
(before. Perhaps a committee of the 
different school officers to provide 
a chairman to preside at joint meet­
ings could be considered. Primarily 
this combined body could settle such 
questions as may ibe necessary at 
times of class functions such as the 
Proms, class teas, banquets, etc. 
The Juniors in thisi way would get 
togother a few times each year and 
know each other’ better than they 
do now.
No doubt, next year, as Seniors, 
th© class of ’23 would find greater 
value in the fact that their problems 
could be taken care of by an organ­
ization which they had become part 
of the year before.
it is up to the class of^’23 to put 
this across. Are you going to do 
your share by attending this meet­
ing?
CARNEGIE TEAM 
BREAKS EVEN IN 
DEBATE FRIDAY ?
FREE RECITAL BY MUSIC 
DEPARTMENT NEXT SUNDAY 
EVENING ARTS THEATER
Affirmative Team Wins From 
Westminster While Nega­
tive Loses to Thiel in First 
Round
DEBATE AGAIN FRIDAY
!<¦
Non-Degree Association 
To Hold Annual Smoker
The various committees of the 
Non-Degree Association were called 
into conference by President Strizzi 
to discuss and formulate plans for the 
first social affair of the organization. 
The date of Friday evening, March 
17tli, was selected to inaugurate the 
social activities, when a smoker will 
be held in Room 401, Science Build­
ing. The entertainment committee, 
with the whole-hearted co-operation 
of the members of the association, is 
working up a program of entertain­
ment. Vaudeville stunts, music, 
speakers and refreshments are a few 
of the items already billed. An or­
chestra formed from the ranks of the 
association is practicing diligently, 
and will furnish the music for the 
smoker.
Speakers for the occasion include 
Dean Morris, Dean Tarbell and Mr. 
Pfouts. Invitations have been extend­
ed to the President of the Student 
Council and to the Presidents of the 
Freshman Classes.
All non-degree men are urgently re­
quested to be present on the evening 
of March 17. Those failing to attend 
will miss an evening of rare entertain­
ment and the chance to widen their 
acquaintanceship on the campus. 
Tickets may be secured from any of 
the officers, members of the board of 
directors, entertainment or publicity 
committees for the sum of twenty-five 
cents.
W. H. RYAN ELECTED PRES.
OF SCIENCE SOPH. CLASS
Because of a tie vote between the 
candidates for President and for Sec­
retary of the Science . Sophomore 
class, a second election was held last 
Tuesday, March 7. The final results 
are as follows:
President—W. H. Ryan.
Vice Pres.—C. N. Hollingsworth.
Secretary—E. Robertson.
Treasurer—H. G. Fritz.
Senators—R. A. Garbett and D. A. 
Shoerlce.
In the first round of the lnter-col- 
legiate Pentangular Debates Car­
negie Tech split even with the affirm­
ative team defeating the team repre­
senting Westminster while the Thiel 
debaters were given a decision over 
our negative trio at Greenville. As 
predicted 'before hand both teams 
from this institution put up an exhi­
bition of debating which would make 
many of the older colleges more ex­
perienced in that activity envious of 
the fact that Carnegie was so well 
represented.
The affirmative team at home put 
forth a brand of argument which 
showed that the team had been ably 
coached in the fundamentals of de­
bate, had at its command a wealth 
of material on the topic secured only 
by exhaustive research and careful ap­
plication and finally showed that 
quickness of thought on the platform 
was a most valuable asset in tripping 
up and trapping their opponents. 
Captain Kenny, occupying the key 
position on the team, proved invinc­
ible and in his final rebuttal showed 
that a study of the classics is not the 
most essential prerequisite for the 
attainment of supremacy in debate. 
He was ably assisted by Messrs. H. 
K. Burr and J. R. Silverman who also 
showed up as debaters of no small 
merit. In justice to "Westminster who 
fought famely to the (last minute it 
may be said that in pure oratory they 
had a slight edge on the Tartans.
Although awarded an adverse deci­
sion the negative team by no means 
fell down on the job. Every conceiv­
able obstacle, preconceived and 
thought of on the spur of the moment 
was placod in the path of the Tlieil 
debaters; but evidently to no avail 
as far as the judges were concern­
ed. Thell's argument lilnged on tho 
“right to strike”'phase of the ques­
tion, while Tech held to the need for 
the legislation advocated and its ef­
fect on the workers’ mind. Although 
Tlieil excelled in oratory her ascen­
dency in other elements of the de­
bate was by the narrowest of mar­
gins. Messrs. K. J. Lawrence, R. P. 
Iffland and L. J. Whitehead shared 
(Continued on Page Three.)
MAJOR B. SOMERVIN 
INSPECTS R. 0. T. C.
Major B. Somervin of the Corps of 
Engineering Inspected the Engineer­
ing Unit of the Carnegie Tech R. O. 
T. C. on Friday and Saturday, March 
10 and 11. Major Somervin in ex­
pressing his admiration at tho elll- 
ciency and thoroughness of the course 
taught here, said that it is tho best 
organized^ unit he has inspected as 
yet, and that he intended to recom­
mend it as a model to other engineer­
ing schools containing an engineering 
unit of the R. O. T. C.
Major Somervin is_ an authority on 
Military Engineering, his office being 
with the chief of engineering, Wash­
ington, D. C.
ARTISTS WILL HOLD COSTUME 
PARTY IN LIFE CLASS ROOM
Artists of the Painting and Illus­
trating and Applied Arts Departments 
will be given a costume party on 
Marclu 25. T>is is to be an exclu­
sive affair and one of every couple 
must be from one of the above de-
Students of the Department of Mu­
sic, Carnegie Institute of Technology 
will give customary recital next Sun­
day night at S:15.
Haydn. Violoncello Concerto 
Allegro moderate
Joseph Reploglo
2. Haydn. My Mother Bids Me 
Bind My Hair
Eva Spencer
3. Suint-Saeus. Third Violin Con­
certo. Op Gl 
Allegro non troppo 
Marie jlvleyle 
Chopin. Impromptu in F sharp 
major 
'Schumann. Sdaring 
Schumann, wibims
Helen B.-Johnson
5. Strauss. Piano Quartet, Op, 
Allegro
Alice Kirk, Francis Kleyle, Edward 
Stribrny, Charfes C. Kraue. 
Accompanists — Jeannette Spatliolt, 
Oscar L. Helfenbein.
Free to the public- No tickets re­
quired.
13
A. I. E. E. TO HOLD 
BANQUET MAR. 18
Prominent Men to Speak 
Favors to be Given 
Plebes Invited
On Saturday, March IS, the hard­
working Electricals will send their 
overheated slide rules to the showers 
and assemble at G:30 in the Seventh 
Avenue Hotel for their annual foed.
The program for the evening in­
cludes music (?), speeches and non­
sense. Favors donated by electrical 
concerns will also be distributed.
The manager of the Pittsburgh of­
fice of the General Electric Company 
will be one of the speakers and an 
attempt is being made to secure ono 
of the chief engineers of a steel com­
pany for the other.
The price for this affair has been 
set as low as possible in order that 
a large number will be able to attend 
and plans are being laid accordingly. 
Any qlectrlcal who misses the ban­
quet will undoubtedly be sorry after­
wards and all Plebes who anticipate 
taking Electrical Engineering should 
avail themselves of i this opportunity 
to become better acauainted with the 
department and Its work.
Tickots are selling at two dollars 
and may be secured from ono of tho 
committee, which is arranging tho 
banquet.
VOLL.XI IN25VC VAORE
TO MEET THIS EVENING
Tho next bl-woekly meeting of tho 
Current Topics’ Club of tho ltodof 
Shalom templo will be held on Wed­
nesday evening, March 15, at 8:15 p. 
in. at the tomple, corner Fifth and 
Morewood avenues.
Prof. Nathan Isaacs, of tho Law 
School of the University of Pitts­
burgh, will deliver a talk on “Tho 
Presont Status of Palestine, Zionism 
and the Balfour Declaration.’’ Ho 1« 
vory well versed on this subject, and 
will endeavor to present both sides of 
tho Zionist question Impartially. Ills 
talk will no doubt precipitate a lively 
and profitable discussion.
All Carnogle Tech students and 
their friends aro invited to this meet­
ing.
PRIZE OFFERED FOR 
BEST ESSAY ON CHINA
Admiral Tsai Ting-san, through 
“Asia,’/ the American magazine on 
the Orient, has offered a prize of $200 
for the best essay on the subject, "In­
ternational Justice for China.”
The judges are: (a) John Dewey, 
professor of philosophy, Columbia 
University, and recent lecturer on 
philosophy and education at Chinese 
government universities and educa­
tional associations, (b) Robert Me-
partments, and the other trom somel PI1"*" Edwards professor of AmericanI history, Princeton University, andother section in the ‘ College of Fine 
Arts.
Costumes and masks will be worn 
and Hughes’ Six will furnish the mu­
sic. The affair wili ue held in the 
two life-class rooms which will be 
decorated to conform with the at­
mosphere of the occasion.
The committee in charge of the 
party- consists of M. Winslow, chair­
man; Thelma Featherman, Louise 
Colebrook, Mary Fife, Henry Moeser, 
Dick Beatty, Teasdale Barney, Earl 
Gross, Kevin B. Callahan, Howard 
Rotliman and Vincent Roy.
EIGHTEEN TO COMPETE
IN 'CHESS TOURNAMENT
The regular meeting of the Chess 
Club was held last Wednesday even­
ing and the plans for the tournament 
practically completed. Eighteen men 
have announced themselves as com­
petitors and these have been divided 
into three groups. Prizes are to be 
awarded to the three with the high­
est percentage.
Eaclu man is to play five games, 
one with each in his group. Tho six 
highest, one from each group, shall 
then play under the same rules, and 
the three winners shall be chosen by 
their averages.
All games must be played by 
March 29, and therefore competitors 
are urged to play off their games 
promptly. Lists of contestants and 
copies of the rules are posted in the
Y Hut and in the Y. M. C. A. 
room.
first American exchange professor to 
China, 1916-1917. (c) Paul S.
Reinsch, American minister to China, 
1913-1919, and present counselor to 
the Chinese government.
The conditions are:
1. The contest is open to under­
graduates of' any nationality in all 
American colleges and universities.
2. The essays should not be long­
er than 2,500 words and all manu­
scripts should be typewritten on one 
side of the paper.
3. The name, address, college and 
endorsement of the college registrar 
of each contestant should be typewrit­
ten on s. separate sheet of paper and 
attached to the manuscript. The en­
velope In which the contestant's es­
say Is mailed should be labeled, 
"Prize Essay Contest.”
4. Contestants are advised to keep 
copies of their essays. “Asia” can­
not be responsible for manuscripts 
that are lost or for the return of 
those submitted In the contest.
5. All essays must be mailed to 
reach the office of "Asia,” 027 Lexing­
ton avenue, New York City, not later 
than May 15, 1922.
G. The award of the prize will bo 
announced in the August, 1922, issue 
of “Asia.”
Admiral Tsai Ting-san, who has of­
fered this prize, was one of the ad­
visers to the Chinese delegation at 
the Washington conference. He was 
one of the first Chinese students to 
come to America in 1873 and is well 
known in the United States. He has 
Club j long been prominent] in Chinese af­
fairs.
SENATOR PEPPER 
WILL SPEAK ON 
FOUNDER’S DAY
A. W. Mellon and Rt. Rev. H. 
C. Boyle Will Assist in 
Celebration. Opening of the 
Inter’l Art Exhibition
SCIENCE SOPHS FAVOR
WILLIAM PENN HOTEL
FOR SOPH HOP MAY 12
CLASSES AS USUAL
George W. Pepper, Uuited States 
senator from Pennsylvania, will de­
liver the address at the annual cele­
bration of Founder’s Day at the Car­
negie Institute on Thursday after­
noon, April 27. This will bo Sonator 
Pepper’s first appearance in Pitts­
burgh since his appointment to tho 
senate. The subject of his speoch 
lias not yet been given out but it is 
known, however, that it will not re­
late to partisan politics.
It is expected that Andrew W. Mel­
lon, secretary to the treasury, will 
accompany Senator Pepper and take 
part in Founder's Day celebration. 
Tho invocation will be pronounced by 
Rt. Rev. Hugh C. Boyle, Roman Cath­
olic bishop of Pittsburgh. Charles 
Ileinroth will render selections 011 
the organ.
Tho international exhibition of 
paintings will be opened on that day. 
There has been a change this year in 
tho jury system which judgos tho 
paintings and instead of a jury of ton 
members, as before, tlioro will only 
be four In the jury. Tho members of 
tills jury aro Charles II. Woodbury, 
Charles C. Curran, of tho Unltod 
States; Lucian Simon, Franco, and 
Mrs. Laura Knight. This year the 
four membors of tho now jury luivo 
hold settings In Paris, London and 
Now York and have pronounced their 
judgment except as to prizes so that 
all the pictures that arrive boro will 
be shown. Years before numerous 
pictures wore turned down aftor be­
ing sent here. Tho jury will opine to 
Pittsburgh on April 8 to award tho 
prizes.
It has boon found that painters aro 
glad to send their pictures to Pitts­
burgh not only as a matter of profes­
sional prldo, but bocauso Pittsburgh 
,lias boeomo favorably known as a 
marlcot for the salo of art works. 
About fifty paintings woro sold In 
tho first woolc of the international ex­
hibition last yoar. Tho Carnoglo In­
stitute arranges for tho salo without 
any commission whatovor, I11 ordor to 
promote tho love for art and Its pa- 
tronago horo. Tho muaoum dopart- 
mont will display a number of now 
(Continued 011 Pago Four.)
COMMUTEE DECIDES TO 
CONTINUE SONG CONTEST
The . interest of tho studonta In 
tho attempt to gather material for a 
Carnegie Song Book, as shown by 
the number of songs entered In tho 
contest, lias boon vory mild.
Only a baro dozen havo boon re­
ceived and of theso several wore 
contribut.3d by Alumni.
Believing that tlio school as a 
whole does not yet fully undoratahd 
tho need for tho Song Book, the 
committee, Composed of Fioronco 
Lutz, J. T. Ames, T. S. Repplier and 
A. 2-1. Johnson, has decided to delay 
the awarding of the prizes in the 
hope that a more representative 
competition will result.
To increase the intensity of the 
contest the chairman purposes to 
conduct a publicity campaign to 
drive home the necessity for such a 
book on the campus.
The committee urges that more 
of the students become interested 
in this contest, and enrich the col­
lection of Carnegie Tech songs by 
a contribution. ^.Tlie cause is a, 
worthy one, and to be the author of 
a song recognized asi one of the 
battle cries- of an institution such 
as Carnegie Tech is no mean honor.
LUTHERAN STUDENT CLUB
MEETS FRIDAY NITE
The Lutheran Student Club will 
hold its regular meeting and party 
at the Oakland Community House 
Friday, March 17, 8" p. m. All stu­
dents are welcome. Come and bring 
your friends.
At the Scionco Sophomore Class 
meeting last Friday noon a motion 
was passed that If it. was agreeable 
with the Sophomore class of Indus­
tries and Design the Sophomore Hop 
will be held at tho William Penn Ho­
tel on May 12th. A committee was 
appointed to make arrangements for 
the affair and it was announced that 
the assessment would bo either two 
dollars 01* two dollars and a half per 
couple.
A committee was appointed to ar­
range for a party 01* dance to be 
given by the iScienco Sophomores to 
the Sophomore girls of Margaret Mor­
rison and Design School to return tho 
courtesy of the girls in giving two 
afternoon dances to tho Science men.
Every Sopliomoro was urged to pay 
his. class dues as soon as possible as 
the condition of the treasury is not 
as good as it might be. A committee 
was appointed to make out a budget 
of next year’s expenses.
LARGEST CLASS 
IN HISTORY TO 
GRADUATE HERE
Science School to Confer Ma­
jority of Degrees, M. M. C. 
Second, Then Arts and In­
dustries
350 IN JUNE CLASS
HOME CONCERT TO 
CONCLUDE SEASON
Clubs’ Annual Ball Following 
Concert is Feature of 
Evening Program
On tho evening of Friday, March 17, 
the Carnegie Music Hall will bo the 
sceno of the seventeenth annual home 
concert. Tills marks tho close of tho 
most successful season tho Carnegie 
Musical Clubs have yet experienced. 
Among the trips aro listed two ox- 
toiuled tours In which tho Carnoglo 
organization carried off tho laurols 
wherever they appeared.
Following the concert, tho annual 
ball will bo hold In tho Carnoglo 
Union. Tho Toch Novelty Orchestra 
of sovon pieces will furnish tho mu­
sic. Dancing will bo continuous from 
10:30 till 2. Tho Union will bo doc- 
oratod In harmony with tho occasion 
and the faculty club room will bo usod 
as a reception room.
Tho following program, tho result 
ot' a. season's work, wlili bo prosontod 
with other spoclaltloa which aro be­
ing kept as surprises:
PART ONE
1. a.—Alma Mater..............,,C. I. T.
b.—Land Sighting, .Edward Grlog
Gloo Club,
2. March—Our Director;F.E),Blglow
Mandolin Club
3. Vocal Solo ..................... Soloctod
Mr. R. R. Sawhlll
<1. Plantation Medley..........Solootod
Gloo Club.
5. Collo Solo ..................... Soloctod
Mr, S. H. Blaolcmoro
(I. a.—Song of India.......................
........... itlmlslcy-Korasukow
b.—Swoothoart   B. Davis
Mandolin Club 
PART TWO
7. Ilonoytown.............S. F. Wldonor
Gloo Olul).
8. Up and Down Broadway
Tech Novelty Orohostra
9. Quartet ......................... Soloctod
Messrs. Murphy, Lo Baron,
Turcotto, MltcHeltroo
10. Excelsior...................M. W. Bàite
Gloo Club.
11. Serenade..................... F. Shubort
(Continued on Page Four.)
COSMOPOLITAN CLUB
“INTERNATIONAL NIGHT"
The Intercollegiate Cosmopolitan 
Club will give their '‘International
Night" l.h Is Wednesday evening, 
March 15, at tho Carneglo Music 
Hall The Entertainment Committee 
has been busy nlnco last January on 
the preparation of a very attractive 
and unique program which will not 
fall to delight and Interest oven tho 
most blase theatergoor.
The program Includes, among 
other numbers equally interesting,
Scotch Bagpipe and Sword Dance,
folk dancing from different nations, 
vocal selections by Elmer A. Steph­
an, baritone; a Hindu flute selection, 
the Heinrich dancers and a great 
many other things from foreign 
lands that you have never seen or 
heard in Pittsburgh.
Comemrcial Engineers to 
Hold National Convention
Dr. W. t F. Rittman, head Of tho 
Commercial Engineering Department, 
returned last week from Now York, 
where he attended a meeting of tho 
sub-committee which made prelimi­
nary plans for the convention which 
is to be held here on May 1 and 2,
1922. The committee on Commercial 
Engineering appointed by the United 
iS'tates Commissioner of Education to 
investigate business training for, en­
gineers and engineering training for 
students of business, consists of both 
educational and professional men 
from all parts of the country.
It has not yet been decided whether 
the William Penn or the Schenley 
Hotel will be the headquarters for 
the convention.
The program is divided into four 
sessions, two on each day. The first 
session on Monday morning, May 1, 
will be devoted to the educational 
point of view of such training. Ques­
tionnaires have 'been sent out to 
every school and the committee is 
collecting such data as to show .what 
Is being done throughout the country 
in regard to the commercial training, 
of the engineer and engineering train­
ing for students of business. All the 
leading engineering societies have 
been invited and have accepted. The 
session on Monday afternoon will bo 
directed toward the Industries’ point 
of view. The subject for the conven­
tion on Tuesday .morning will pertain 
to tho engineer and his relation to 
municipal .affairs. Tho last GSTT5ST 
will bo devolod l;o a series of round 
table 'meetings on tho discussion of 
matters brought up at the previous 
sens ion.5.
A smoker and a banquet will bo 
hold In connection with the conven­
tion—the smoker on Monday night 
and tho banquet on Tuesday night.
MAJOR BRAGDON INITIATED
INTO SIGMA EPSILON PHI
Sigma Epsilon Phi wishes to an­
nounce the initiation of Major J. S. 
Bragdon of the Military Department 
last Saturday evening. Major Brag­
don is an honor graduate of West 
Point of the class of ’15.
Carnegie Tech will give degrees to 
approximately 850 Seniors and grad­
uate students at the annual Com­
mencement exorcises in June of this 
year.
Science has in all cases but one, 
had the majority of the graduating 
class; it has graduated approximately 
GO per cent of every class, and this 
holds true of tho present class as of 
the 350 candidates for degrees, 200 of 
the candidates are students in the 
College of Engineering. Of the 200 
candidates the Mechanical Engineers 
are heading the list.
The Margaret Morrison College has 
the largest number of graduates and 
candidates for degrees. Sovonty-three 
students are to receive Masters' De­
grees, and five of whom aro to receive 
degrees from tho Unlvorsity of Pitts­
burgh. Household Economics loads 
tho presont class, and has claimed the 
largest number of the girls In tho 
past..
Tho College of FIno, Arts lias been 
consistent, maintaining an average 
of twenty in every class, until the 
last two years, graduating thirty-nine 
In 1921, and to glvo degreos to ap­
proximately forty this year. In all 
tho classes tho Architects havo hold 
tho largest number of graduates, ox- 
copt In ono, whori tho Drama Depart­
ment had tho largost.
Tho College of Industrlos is tho In­
fant In dogroo courses, although its 
buildings aro tho oldest on tho cam­
pus. The class of 11)21 was tho first 
to rouolvo degrees ill Industrial En­
gineering, although degrees In Indus­
trial E(rogation wore given to a few 
In provloua years. Tho class of 1921 
graduated twenty-one students, and 
Hulldlng Erection and Estimating had 
tho largost number of graduate«. 
Forty aro candidate» for degrees in 
the class of 1922, the course In Ma­
chine Production leading.
Psychology Department, or tho Di­
vision of Co-operative Research as It 
Is now called has boon growing at a 
stoady rate, giving two degreos In 
liilO, six In 1920, eleven In 1921, and 
approximatoly twenty-live In :l|)22.
Psychological Corpor­
ation Now Organized
Dr. Bingham a Director in 
the New O ganization
There has recently been created in 
New York a now organization, known 
as the Psycho,logical Corporation. 
This corporation Is composed of mon 
•prominent in psychological research. 
The president Is Dr. J. McJCeen Cat- 
teil.
Tho Carnegie Institute of Technol­
ogy la represented by Dr. W. V. Bing­
ham, who is ono of the directors. 
Nearly all of the directors of tho 
Psychological Corporation have been 
selected from universities and insti­
tutions,
Psychology, owing to Its recent 
progress and war service, is attract­
ing wide public attention. This pub­
licity la being used for all sorts of 
schemes, some of which may serious­
ly injure psychology. An organized 
group of psychologistfj, whoso stand­
ing Is recognized, can exert a useful 
Influence at tlio present time.
The Psychological Corporation pro­
poses to maintain adequate standards 
in applied psychology to assure op­
portunities and proper payment to 
those competent to do the work, and 
to use the profits for psychological 
research.
The support of research in any sci­
ence has always been a difficult prob- 
¦lem. In the past research has been , 
carried on mostly by those earning 
their living by teaching. But the ne­
cessity for organized research has 
been recognized, a number of insti- / 
tutes being conducted solely for this 
purpose. The Psychological Corpora­
tion proposes to use existing labora­
tories and facilities, where Bpecial 
work can be done to tho best advant­
age, and thus assist the universities 
and their psychologists. If research in 
psychology can bo supported as a by­
product of economic service, its prog- 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Radio Club Holds Meeting
On March 18, at 7:110 p. m., tho 
Radio Club of Carnoglo Tech held an 
Informal mooting’ In their recently 
furnished club room In Henderson 
Hall. Plans were discussed to com­
plete tho aorlal for tho club, and ar­
rangements made to furnish club 
room keys to tho members. After 
listening to different conversations in 
the ether, the meeting adjourned.
The club has been doing great work 
ever since its organization and will 
keep on doing it. Plans have been 
started, for a formal opening of the 
club room, which will be held in the 
near future.

---------------------------------------------------

TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, MARCH 15, 1922
Carnegie ITactan
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institut® of 
Technology under tho supervision of tho Student Activities Board.
Entered In tho Postonico of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
FREDERICK b. KNOWLES............................................................ Kdltor-Jn-Chiot
Telephone, Hazel 981)8
WILLIAM R. MILLS ................................................................. Business Managor
Telephone—Schonloy 2053-R
VIC. II. STR0MQUI3T___i........................................................ Managing Editor
Telephone—Hiland 858.
HELEN V. LEWIS .......................................................................Associato Editor
Teloplionë—Schonloy 1)071)
L. J. WHITEHEAD .............................................................. Associato Editor
Telephone—Schonloy 1)070
EDWARD A. BRAND...............................................................................News Editor
Telephono—Schonloy 0070
H. F. SIMPSON..................................... ................. Athlotlo Editor
Telephone—Schonloy 0070
u UU mjYTON ............................................................................ Photographer
o! o!.Kxclmon.!..................................................................................... Kxclmngo Editor
FIFITNXXOHYXX ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, Advertising Muimijor
Tolephono—Schonloy 0211
IO. L. REILLYCirculation Managor
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
Gladys Bogue, M, Schumacher, H. F. Dieter, A. Lubin, Vincont Roy, 
p V MacKonaÌo, H. H. Lol'howit/., H, H. Wilson, W. J. Bolton, L. Herl//,man, 
e'. J. Maiiitt, It. P. Hay, J. A. Doughorty, M. S. Downos, W. O. Sullivan, F. C. 
Smith, L. Byorly.
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS 
H. H. Wlliton, I-I. J. McCormick, J. A. Berno, L..D. Allshouso.____________
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS
Major 
and T.
.T. M. Coopor, E. Sowors, W. B. Cunningham, C. C. Kaltenhausor, .T. C. 
or, F. II. Allison, A. D. Young, W. L. Miller, L. M. Landis, P. F. Schuckor
J. Dompiioy.
Tho Editor-in-Chlef Is responsible for tho policy of this paper; 
Managing Editor for tho mako up. __________________________
Tho Tartan wolcomos all communications of student intorost. If signed, 
signature wlíl bo withhold If desired. All nwws itoms must be in the student 
post olllco before 4:80 Friday. ________________________________________________
Tartan OiUee4—Room G-A, Industries Building. 
11:80 to 1:00, Wodnosday, 12:00 to 1:00.
omco hours—Tuesday,
CAMPUS WEEK
CainpriH Week is the next big event on our calendar. Commit­
tees have been appointed and definite plans are being laid. Prepara­
tion will soon start and before we realize it, Campus Week -will be 
here.
Our alumni are expected back for Campus Week and our friends 
and relatives will come and join us in our 1'un. These two bodies 
of comparative outsiders will have expectations that are hard to an­
ticipate. Campus Week, to them, will be truly representative of 
what Carnegie Tech can do and they will pass judgment accordingly.
But will Campus Week bo truly representative of what Car­
negie Tech can do? It has not been in former years and, unless the 
student body eo-opcratc with the committees in charge, it will not 
be tliis year. Last year the committees asked for ideas, suggestions, 
stunts and physical assistance and they did not receive them. .The 
committees were overworked and Campus Week was not the suc­
cess it could have been.
Every man and woman have their own ideas of how Campus 
'Week should be produced, and of what it should consist. Do not be 
so sensitive as to think that your suggestion is unimportant and not 
worth consideration. Steam from a water kettle was the beginning 
of the present steam engines and a suggestion or idea, seemingly un­
important, may develop into a coup-dc-maitrc. You’ve seen, nweep- 
8takes the committees' have,hot seen, you’ve seen affairs like Mardi 
Gfras, you kiiow of some novel advertising stunt, you’ve seen pago- 
ants and shows tlio committees have neither seen or heard of.
The Campus Week committees again ask the student body for 
co-operation. Bend in your ideas and suggestions and if you are 
asked to assist, in any other task, join in and do your best. That we 
shall produce’a bottor Campus Week is a forcgono conclusion, but 
lot us aim at a high standard. Let us have a Campus Week truly 
representative of Carnegie Tech.
President Hamerschlag Sends
Letter From Distant Africa
To III
COMMENTS
IIOTlCr, TRANSA'Pl I OTlC r,R AN
Marrakech Muroo, Africa, February, 11.922. 
the Editor of tho Tartan :
Ever sin,oo my arrival here tho impulse to send a message to 
those at homo lias boon vory strong.
This is tho last, outpost of white civilization on tho AVost .African 
Continent. It is a tenth century city- a holy place in an oasis in tho 
desert. A I; one time it had hall’ a million inhabitants; now perhaps it 
hus a. hnndrod thousand residents and a floating population of half 
that number.
Tho place has been under Froneh control for a dozen, years, but 
only since tho war has it been open to visitors. An Amorlcan engi­
neer whom we mot at Casablanca said that only a few Americans had 
gone through, to Marrakech in all the time lie had been hero.
Wo are stopping at a. little French hotel in the Moorish section 
of tho city, its approach uninviting and the rooms like interior cells 
or niches around patios or courts.
It is clean, and the cuisine perfect; we are fortunate to bo so 
comfortably located.
The streets and bazaars are sticky with mud, and Moors, 
donkeys, camels and mendicants form an endless procession before 
our gates.
A visit to the Commandant General brought us a surprise— 
a beautiful house a splendid French officer who speaks English flu­
ently. He gave us passes inscribed with the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, as our authorization to visit the Palace of the Pasha or 
Sultan, the hospital and the university.
Here we were amazed to be greeted by a former student, Louis 
de Triemandan, Electrical, 1919, one of the French Government 
scholarship men—winner of the Medaille Militaire and the Croix de 
Guerre, who proudly displayed his Tccli button and explained that 
he is stationed here at headquarters and hopes to aid in an electrical 
water power transmission plan of the government to bring power 
into Marrakech from the Atlas mountains, snow capped peaks of 
which are just visible on the horizon.
Moorish civilization finds its best expression at Rabbatt, Lali and 
Fez—while African cosmopolitanism—Moor, Arab, Berber, Jew, Ne 
gro and Sengal all mix here just as they did ten centuries ago. The 
racial differences and customs all seem to flourish, while "only ves­
tiges of former grandeur and power aro visible.
It is a place of contrasts, rags, odors, filth, black and white, all 
having but ono ldnd of life, a place of leisurely bartering, of idle­
ness, of beggary.
The workers in metals and leather, weavers, otc., do crude work 
with children from sixteon apprenticed as helpers; the men are most 
ly decrepit or diseased and the women" concealod b}' the oriental 
wrappings covoring faco and parson.
Hero electricity, automobiles and aeroplanes aro side by side with 
goats, sheep, camels and donkoys. Thoro is a vivid picturc from the 
Palace of Bohia. To tho slums outside in tho Ghetto's is only a step.
Every day wo give thanks in our hearts for the privilege con­
ferred on us of having been born in tho Unitod States.
Here education is negloctod, and men and boasts livo as they 
havo since tho time of Mohammed.
Mrs. Hamerschlag joins in greetings to you all—our thoughts 
aro often with you; and as wo motored through Franco and Spain 
wo often talked of tho events in our College life which this'vaca­
tion makes it impossible for us to attend.
This letter will be carried by acroplano to Paris, thcneo by rail 
and steamer home.
•_________________(Signed) ARTHUR A. HAMERS CUT; AG.
Calendar of Student Events
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 15
International Niglit........................................8:15, Carnegie Music Hall
FRIDAY, MARCH 17
Debate—Grove City vs. Carnegie........................................................S:15
Home Concert Dance........................................8:15 Carnegie Music Hall
Non-Degree Smoker.........................................................8:00, 401 Science
ROAMIN’S
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
PRESENT AND FUTURE
In order to develop a discussion of 
principles and practice of student 
govertimont at Carneglo, It is neces­
sary to understand tho development 
of the prosent form, its basis, and 
Its general inability to> meet the re­
quirements of the situation. The 
original student council In 1917 ex- 
lstod under practically the rules and 
constitution of today, except that 
now tho rules and constitution aro 
changed as tho occasion arises to 
demand tbs change.
Tho peculiar organization of the 
school, including one college for 
women, two for engineers, and one 
for artists and architects, differing 
widely from each other In ideas and 
temperament, emphasizes the diffi- 
ulty of government, Tho natural 
trend of human being Is toward fac­
tionalism, petty sectional Jealousies 
and politics. To obviate tho diffi­
culties gonorated by these tenden­
cies, to wold tho four colleges to­
gether as a unit, and to provide an 
organization capable of handling tho 
groat variety of probems arising in 
such a complex student group, is 
the function of student govei’mnent.
It safe to say that under our 
presort organization, the completion 
of any undertaking, the success of 
any part of the student government, 
dopondH on tho ability of tho execu­
tive officer of the organization. Tho 
powers of any section are limited 
only by the ability of the executive 
officer to shoulder the responsibili­
ties which bring the powers. This 
fealuTo provides excellent running 
gear under good officers but proves 
very insufficient under officers who 
are, perhaps, not so good. The re­
sponsibility of the sub-executive is 
governed only by his conscience. 
Practically no suitable responsibility 
'ests upon the treasurers of organi­
zations. Funds are handled under 
many systems. Continuity of organ­
ization, ideas and practice is almost 
unheard of. There aro two main 
councils or committees governing the 
governed. I speak of the Student 
Council and tho Activities Board. 
Tho duties of each conflict and inter­
lock. If either body were less tact­
ful than at present, there would 
arise serious difficulties.
Tliforo is insufficient contact be­
tween the student, faculty and ad­
ministration. Tlio presont advisory 
board is unsatisfactory. It is simi­
lar to a situation where Cheney 
knows that Coles has a dog which 
should bo kill'od, and he has a pup 
which ho woiild like to give to Coles, 
Coles, Cheney knows, is a man of 
•oason, and will see his object in 
•hiding tine neighbors of the post, so 
ho goes out and shoots the- dog. im­
mediately Coles remembers every- 
(Continued on Pago 4)
ONE-HALF OF ONE PER CENT I I
REPORT OF THE RUSHING 
REG. COMM. OF THE GENERAL 
INTER-FRATERNITY COUNCIL
Just think for a minute. On these 
few figures. There are over two thou­
sand! Students at Carnegie. For the 
past three months. There has been, A 
song contest. With real American 
money. For prizes. And the chance to 
bo remembered. For ages at Tech. 
But what Is the result of the appeal. 
Twelve, Think of it. Twelve replies 
from twenty-four hundred. Just one- 
half of one per cent. Now ain’t that 
a wonderful showing. Wouldn’t that 
make. A wonderful song book. Yes, 
for a vest pocket edition. But is that 
In keeping. With the Bize of our 
place? Or is it that we're not colle­
giate?
Now listen to me for a moment. 
Lot's got goin’ and show tho world. 
That because we excell in math. 
We're not a bunch of dumbells. “Col- 
loglately” speaking. Think of return­
ing. Five years from now. And 
hearing the crowd. Sing the song 
that you write. Or opening a boog for 
the folks at home. To page 19. “I 
wrote that one.” Freddy helped with 
the inuslC. If you can't do it. All by 
yourself. Get your buddy to help you. 
If you’ve got the words. But can’t 
get a tune. Take It up to the commit­
tee. They’ll help you find a musician. 
Then two can share the honors.
But twelve songs won’t make a 
song book. Although I must congratu­
late. The twelve who were loyal, 
enough to try. If you can write one. 
You sure can write two. Let’s make it 
twenty-four. In the meantime. The 
rest of you lake a brace. And rouse 
the muse from its slumbers. Let’s 
have a real strong song book. 
Stronger than a half of one per cent.
Reports come from Theil. Of a 
mighty , hospitable deal. Both from 
the debaters and. The girls' basket 
ball team. Despite the 42-0 defeat. 
Their welcome was most cordial. For 
they could not seem. To do enough. 
To make their visitors. At home. For 
a,wee small college like that. It’s a 
mighty fine recoi’d. Let’s hope rela­
tions. Will remain cordial.
Chairman Bo^rd of
Trustees, Carnegie Tech
There is a man very intimately 
connected with the Carnegie Insti­
tute of Technology, who is but slight­
ly known to the students. This man 
is Colonel Samuel Harden Church, 
who has been responsible, in 
many ways, for the remarkable 
growth and development of our
Tootin is out. After a year of
slumber. And Roamer concluded. It 
ain’t quite awake yet. But anyhow. 
We are all quite happy. That we 
hiive assistants. Who can give us a 
lift. Or a little dig. When we call 
on a shave for two. But our manag­
ing editor. Is mad as can be. Cause 
Tootin gave him no buddy. He 
works like thunder. Every week. He 
hardly ever has time to eat. With 
his sleeves rolled up. And his tie 
nil awry. He's not the man to seek 
for glory. But lie sure is sore. They 
forgot he was here. And dln't give 
¡Mm. An assistant.
ROAMER.
Tho commlttco recommends the 
careful consideration of tho following 
proposed regulations which havo 
n drawn up by tho committee fol­
lowing the linos suggested at tho last 
meeting.
Propouetd Inter-Fraternity Rushing 
Rooulntlono.
1—Ruuhlnq Period.
Uutihlng shall bo continued for a 
period of throo woolcs, this period to 
begin with Registration Day of tho 
flrst Homester.
2—Silent Period.
Thoro shall bo a silent porlod of 
,hroo days Immediately following tho 
ushlng porlod, during which no stu­
dent eligible to become a plodgo to a 
fraternity may bo rushed In any man­
ner.
3—Bldn. |
Bids may not bo offered until tho i 
expiration of the rushing and sllont 
periods.
Rccommondntlons of the Commlttco:
1. That tho above regulations bo 
incorporated in the By-Raws of tho 
General Inter-Fraternity Council.
2—Immediate Publicity.
That the above regulations be given 
adequate publicity in the following 
manners:
1. Printed copies of all of the rules 
governing rushing be forwarded to 
each fraternity.
Publicity for New Students:
2. Printed copies of all rules gov­
erning rushing be forwarded to all 
eligible students entering Carnegie 
Institute of Technology for the first 
time.
3. These regulations to be printed 
in the first four issues of the Tartan 
each year; to receive prominent posi­
tion in the Tartan.
That rules to govern the rushing of 
students entering Carnegie Institute 
of Technology at the beginning of the 
second semester be devised when 
necessity for such rules arises.
Final report submitted March 11, 
1922.
Respectively submitted,
FRED I. SMITH, 
Chairman.
M. M. C. NEWS
MISS PURDY RETURNS
FROM CONVENTION
Monday afternoon tho Arkansas 
Convention was presented to the As­
sociation, with I-Iortense Purdy, our 
delegate, in charge. Those1 of you 
who were not there, you are entitled 
to a "say so” in these convention is­
sues—don’t forgot that. Help solvo 
some of those national and world 
problems, which are coming up In tho 
meetings down In Hot Springs next 
month. Do you realize Tech has a 
voice in those doclsions made down 
there? Got Into tho game. It’s moro 
fun than you think.
SHILLING WANTS MORE
MATERIAL FOR PUBLICATION
Tho Shilling has once moro gono 
to press. You wore going to write 
something for that weren’t you? and 
hero the time has slipped by and It 
Isn’t done! That’s a little way Time 
has, all its own. You still havo an­
other chance—there'll be another 
publication around Campus Week. 
Start your imagination machine. 
Freshmen, ISophomores, what about 
that favorite theme that brought you 
an A? »Send it in—Who Knows—It 
may—well, send it in anyway.
SOCIAL WORK CLUB PARTY
The Social Workers’ Club had a 
party last Wednesday evening. Mrs. 
Burnett gave a short talk on what 
the club might accomplish next year. 
It was decided to help, those that 
wore most in need of help.
After the business meeting games 
were played and everyone present en­
joyed' themselves until the party 
broke up at 10 o’clock.
Y. W. MEETING
While at Columbus he was appoint­
ed Colonel on the staff of Governor 
Hurley, and had charge of quelling a 
serious outbreak there. This was the 
extent of Colonel Church's service in 
the army.
But perhaps his greatest service to 
humanity was in the pamphlet he 
wrote in answer to some arguments 
put forth by ninety-three German 
professors, justifying Germany’s po­
sition in the Great World War. His 
pamphlet completely refuted the 
clever German propaganda, and plac­
ed Germany in her tine light. This 
pamphlet was published in our coun­
try. England and France secured per­
mission to publish it. It was trans­
lated into every language known, 
even the German language. Thou­
sands of these pamphlets were drop­
ped over the German lines by Brit­
ish, French and American aeroplanes^ 
and did more to weaken the moraler 
of the German army than any other 
thing.
Colonel Church is a prominent ex­
ecutive in the Pennsylvania Railroad 
System. He is a man of letters, hav­
ing never neglected studying, when 
an opportunity proved itself. But 
greatest of all he is an uncle to Car­
negie Tech, intensely interested in its- 
growth and development.
Students of Eastern Colleges ap­
pear more interested and better in­
formed upon questions of the day 
than students of Western colleges,, 
according to Paul O’Leary, one of the 
Kansas University delegates to tho- 
recent Student Disarmament Confer­
ence in Chicago.
COL. SAMUEL HARDEN CHURCH
school. It Is essential that we know 
something about Colonel Church, and 
his connections with Carnegie Tech.
Colonel Samuel Harden Church is 
chairman of the Board of Trustees of 
tho Carnegie Institute of Technology 
and is also president of the Board of 
Trustees of the Carnegie Institute, 
which controls the Carnegie Institute 
of. Technology. The trustees of these 
two institutions are, by Mr. Car­
negie's direction, identically the same 
persons Colonel Church has been at 
the head of the Board of Trustees 
since 1914, having succeeded Mr. Wil­
liam N. Frew, who had been presi­
dent of the board up until that time.
As chairman of the board, all mat­
ters of policy and administration to 
the Institute of Technology come to 
Colonel Church through the Techni­
cal Schools Committee of the Board 
of Trustees, and are referred by him 
to the full board for final action and 
authority. The gymnasium is one of 
the most recent and important deci­
sions reached by that body, and has 
been a source of great gratification 
to the trustees, faculty and students. 
The financial settlement for the 
building of this gymnasium was made 
by the Carnegie Corporation of New 
York—the body that has inherited the 
bulk of Mr. Carnegie's fortune.
Colonel Church had long been as­
sociated with Mr. Carnegie, having 
met him through Mr. Carnegie’s in­
terest in Colonel Church’s "Life of 
Oliver Cromwell.” There immediately 
sprang up a firm friendship, which 
Colonel Church says was one of the 
greatest pleasures that ever came 
into his life. He visited Mr. and Mrs. 
Carnegie in Scotland, and he and Mrs. 
Church have made many visits to the 
Carnegie home from time to time.
Colonel Church’s family have lived 
in Pittsburgh since 1822, although he, 
himself was born in Wisconsin on 
January 24, 1858. Due to the unset­
tled conditions of the Civil War, Col­
onel Church’s family moved back to 
Pittsburgh. Here Colonel Church at­
tempted to start out in life for him­
self. He worked as cash boy in the 
Joseph Horne Department Store for 
$1.50 per week, was a 'telegrapher 
and finally office boy in the Pennsyl­
vania railroad's service. Ho learned 
typewriting and stenography, and was 
promoted to a clerical position. After 
that he became superintendent of 
transportation at Columhus, Ohio.
Home Concert Ball |
Formal g
Friday, March 17th |
UNION J
$1.50 Couple ==
Tech Novelty Orchestra Dancing 10:30-2 =§
ÀUFHÂMMER & EVANS
HATS and MEN’S FURNISHINGS
6100 PENN AVENUE
JACQUES DANCING ACADEMY
CRAIG AND FORBES STREET 
Member of A. N. A. M. of D. Open All Year.
BELL PHONE
Classes each evening. Private lessons dally.
A SCHOOL NOT A PUBLIC DANCE HALL
- [atOakland Community House
TAKE VO UR CHOICE
WEEK DAYS
Cliess or checkers.
Pool Tournament.
Latest magazines.
Study room.
Play and sing.
Club, frat or committee meetings.
“Just visit.”
SUNDAYS
Bible Study Classes......................  .10:00 A. M.
Quiet......................................Sunday afternoon
Friends, fellowship, refreshments and a helpful
young people’s meeting............5:30-7:30 P. M.
Information and friendly help any time. 
Oakland Methodist Church and 
Community House 
FORBES AND BOQUET STREETS
‘‘If we could just have meetings 
like that every week! I think every- 
ont got so much out of the Y. W. 
meeting on Wednesday that they’ll be 
apt to keep on coming. It certainly 
showed that people were interested 
in the Y. W., too. To give up going 
to tlie game to come to our meeting 
was mighty fine of the Juniors and 
Freshmen. And then for the Sopho­
mores to stay away from their party!
THURSDAY, FRIDAY, SATURDAY, MONDAY, TUESDAY, 
¦WEDNESDAY, MARCH16, 17, 18, 20, 21, 22
Drama—“Dolly Jordon”...............................................8:15, Arts Theater
' SATURDAY, MAUCII 18
Dance—¦'Women’s Inter-Dorm Dance....................8:30, Carnegie Union
Baliquot—A. I. E. E. Banquet..........6:80,P. M., Seventh Avenue Hotel
SUNDAY, MARCH 1!)
Coneort ............................................................................ 8:15, Arts Theater
MONDAY, MARCH 20
Chapel........................................................................... 12:50, Arts Theater
FRIDAY, MARCH 21
Danoo—“C” Club Dance...........................................8:30 Carnegie Union
SATURDAY, MARCH 25
Smoker—Mid-West Smoker................................................. S:00, Scicnce
P. & I. Mysterious Night....................................................P. & I. Studios
SUNDAY, MARCH 2G
Concert............................................................................ 8:15, Arts Theater
FRIDAY, MARCH 31 
Banquet—Junior Class Banquet
Dance—Avo Club Dance...........................................8:30, Carnegie Union
Dance—Alumni Federation Party............................ Arts Foyer
SATURDAY, APRIL 1 
Dance—Music Department Dance................................ .......Music Rooms
In Architecture—
$HEN you go after your first big commission, you’ll 
need something more than a knowledge of stresses 
and strains, periods and piping. You’ll need the atmosphere 
of success, and the air of knowing your way ’round. One 
evidence of this familiarity’ with the world’s good things is 
the habit of preferring that citizen of the world—
cMelachrino
”The One Cigarette Sold the World Over ”
Remember that Melachrino is the master blend 
of only the finest Turkish Tobaccos as origin­
ated by Miltindes Melachrino. Egyptian cigar­
ettes are simply those that originated in Egypt. 
But the tobacro is what you want to know 
about—and if it’s Melachrino—it’s right.

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 15, 1922THE CARNEGIE TARTANTHREE
ACORN STORAGE BATTERY 
COMPANY 
4521 FORBES STREET 
Near Craig Street.
Radio Batteries___$16.00-$18.00
Rental Batteries 25c per day.
Have You Picked Your Easter Shoes?
East LibertyPenn and Frankstown
onun:
THE STATUE OF LIBERTY
Most of the famous structures of the world 
are equipped with Otis Elevators.
W
HAT structure is better known or is 
more typical of America than this 
Statue at the gate of New York.
wmm
Attuisi
PLAID ATHLETICS
TENNIS PROSPECTS 
ARE GOOD FOR PLAID
PLAID FIVE HAS GOOD 
RECORD DURING SEASON
Only Two Regulars Are Lost 
From Last Year’s Team. 
Plebes Show Up Well
Every year about this time, tennis 
fans show considerable interest in 
discussing what the Plaid lias ac-
* compiished iu tennis, as well as the 
prospects and indications for the 
coming season.
Looking backward over the past 
few years, we find that in this sport 
Carnegie has covered itself with 
glory. Starting with the team in 
1917, we find Grove City defeated 6-0, 
Penn State tied 3-3 and a loss to 
Pitt 2-4. War conditions compelled 
the cancellation o£ four matches, 
and one was called off on account 
of rain .This team was composed 
of four men, two of whom, Captain 
Toots Davis and Jack Beatty, were 
exponents of a fast, hard, driving 
game; the other two, Ivlosser and 
Steen, played a slower and less spec­
tacular game, relying priricialdy on 
placement shots.
Carnegie Tech could gather to­
gether no team in 1918, because of 
war conditions. However in the 
spring of 1919 tennis started off with 
a bang. It was then that Colonel 
Brooks took charge. From the large 
squad that appeared for tryouts, he 
picked a representative team, and 
worked, that team into a finished 
product. This team consisted of the 
well known Captain John D. Beatty, 
whose playing has ¡become the stand­
ard by which all players since have 
(been rated;- E. S. Stockslager, B. 
Gawthorp, C. J. Copely and J. C. 
Harkness. The great success of this 
team can readily be judged by its 
record.
The team of 1920 was still more 
successful. The Plaid racquet team 
carried off the collegiate sectional 
championship by a series of decisive 
victories over every opponent met.
The team composed of Captain 
Stockslager, Beatty Marshall and 
Davis formed an unbeatable combin-
MISS O’LEARY
CLEANING AND PRESSING 
Ladies' and Men’s Clothes. 
Call Schenley 389.
3933 FORBES STREET
Our Work Is Different. We Use 
the Famous 
GOODYEAR WELT SYSTEM 
TECH SHOE REPAIRING 
4523 FORBES STREET
The . record made by the Plaid 
basket ball squad during the past 
season, although not impressive was, 
nevertheless, good if one considers 
£he many obstacles that confronted 
Coach Iddings throughout the season.
Starting the season with such men 
as Captain Gibson, Dosey, Bell and 
Allen from last year’s team as a nu­
cleus, and plenty of new material 
with which to build up a winning com­
bination, thé followers of the Plaid, 
naturally, expected a team which 
would be able to win more than a ma­
jority of the scheduled games. The 
season ended with the Tartans hav­
ing 11 games chalked up as victories 
and with 12 games charged up as de­
feats. In the Tri-State League, Car­
negie Tech finished fourth, winning 
eight games and losing six for a per­
centage of .572.
The reason for many of these de­
feats can unquestionably be attributed 
to the many different combinations 
which Coach Iddings was forced to 
use due to injuries and scholastic dif­
ficulties encountered by some of the 
men. Fifteen of the season’s games 
were started with different lineups 
and the same lineup was never used 
for more than two games in succes­
sion.
Dosey carried away the individual 
honors of the season leading the Tri- 
State League iu scoring with a mark 
of 300 points, 1S2 of these being 
scored by free throws. Captain Gib­
son played the best basket ball that 
lie lias ever played at Tech and his 
aggressiveness and fast floor work ac­
counted for many of the games that 
were won by the Plaid, while Bell and 
Allen playing the guard positions 
showed exceptional ability, and too 
much credit cannot be given to these 
two men for their hard and consistent 
playing throughout the season. An­
derson played his usual steady game 
and the improvement in teamwork 
was quite noticeable after he was 
put in the lineup as a regular and 
Moran and Nelson, although playing 
on the squad for only the last few 
games, performed in a very creditable 
manner and will undoubtedly develop 
Into valuable men when next year’s 
team starts practice. Credit should 
also be given to Godden, Gallagher 
and Moessner, who were with the 
,squad throughout the entire season 
and played good basket ball whenever 
they were called upon to enter the 
game.
at ion. After having won the colle­
giate title of this section ii game 
was arranged with Syracuse Univer­
sity, Champions of New York State, 
who met their Waterloo when the 
Tech racqueteers defeated them by 
a 5-1 score. The team then invaded 
the Middle West and met their only 
defeat at the hands of the Unlver 
sity of Michigan, Champions of tho 
Western Conference by a score of
Last year again, Colonel Brooks 
turned out the champions of this 
section. Of this team, composed of 
Captain Harkness, Smertz, Kell, 
Neville and Swartz, only Harkness 
and Smertz were lost by graduation,
The newest oxfords are all here—plain or fancy— 
for dress, for business, for sport. Price range $5 
to $12.
Men like the clean cut lines of STETSON 
OXFORDS. The general neatness appeals 
to men who "do things”—men who consider 
style and comfort when they buy shoes.
See them in our Men’s Sales Room.
P. Ludebuehl & Son
Countless thousands from the old world pass 
under the uplifted arm that holds a light 
which means to them worlds more than to 
us, though our millions know it and love 
it for the symbol it i*.
It is fitting that an Otis Elevator should 
carry passengers up through the base to the 
foot of the Statue. For though the activities 
of Otis are world-wide, the beginnings, the 
creation, the basic idea* and the great de­
velopments of vertical transportation were 
made by Otis in America.
OTIS ELEVATOR COMPANY
Officci la *U Principal Clue* oi the World
COMBINED CARNEGIE MUSICAL CLUBSLAST CO-EDS GAMI: IS 
LOST TO THIEL COLLEGE
On The Plaid Screen
BY H. F. SIMPSON
CONDENSATIONS AT THE A. M. A. CHAMPIONSHIPS
Hays and Allen, both of Pitt, ran a wonderful race In the 1,000-yard 
event—Hays winning on the home stretch by a scant fraction of a foot.
Kelly, of Carnegie Tech, ran a good race, but experience w$s a deciding
factor.
College contestants proved their superiority over the industrial entrants 
in all events except the one mile walk—in that event, the non-college men,
literally and figuratively speaking, "walked away.”
Carl Davis, Pitt Graduate Manager, aided the Carnegie Tartan reporter 
materially in getting the accurate results of the meet. We like him, because 
he is courteous and a regular good scout.
John M. Kelly finished fully two yards in front of his nearest competitor 
in the 50-yard event. He equalled the last year's record, made by himself, 
of 5 3-5 seconds.
W. P. Bolim of Avalon High School competed in the A. M. A. cham­
pionships. He made a good showing too, getting third place in the 50-yard 
event.
Hays of Pitt broke the 1,000-yard record by almost 6 seconds. Wake­
field, also of Pitt, broke the 300-yard record by 2-5 seconds.
Szold had a bit of hard luck when he fell in his heat of the 300-yard 
dash. He should have won the event.
Dylceman finished first in the two-mile run. He almost lapped his near­
est competitor.
AT LAST!
No obstructions are in the way of the new gymnasium!
The findings of the committee are approved!
CONGRATULATIONS, Committee—and more when we see the ground 
broken!
Reckon we might live to see work actually started after all!
The track managers are working hard getting equipment in shape—oven 
working at nights. That’s the proper spirit!
Baseball and tennis managers will be on the job soon. Sounds good, 
doesn’t it?
A TRI-STATE CONFERENCE—WHY?—WHY NOT?
A few days ago appeared In a local newspaper a question asked and 
answered on tills subject. Tho asking of it was line. The answer given was 
full of common sense, but also full of a certain amount of backwardness. 
Backwardness novel* won a victory. Backwardness never won a placo in the 
sun. Forwardness, too, when carried far, can lose more than timidity. But, 
happily, there is always a medium somewhere in between.
Why permit this scheme of forming a conforence with big eastern 
schools be left to them? Surely a combination of Carnegie Tech, Pitt, Ponn 
State, West Virginia and Wash-Jeff is large enough, and of sufficient Import­
ance to start the ball rolling.
Credit for an achievement goes much more to an Initiator, than to him 
who takes It up. Initiative counts—why not let us claim that honor?
Combined Carnegie Musical Clubs, 
after having appeared at concerts at 
Orville, O., Akron, Ohio, Lake Erie 
College, Cleveland, Ohio.,. Corry, Pa., 
and Erle, Pa., will close a successful 
season with the Home Concert at the 
Music Hall on Friday evening and a 
formal dance in the Carnegio Union 
following the concert.
Insert (right) S. Kovaclc, student 
director, and (left) G. B. Jordy, man­
ager.
CARNEGIE TEAM BREAKS
EVEN IN DEBATE FRIDAY
IN CLOSING
The basket ball season is at an end. Thank goodness! May some of 
its features never bo repeated. Again, please let some of its features bo 
made regular happenings. For instance, please let Dosey again lead tho Trl* 
State scorers, and lot us achieve wins over W. Va„ firovo City, Woslovan
RESULTS OF INTER­
FRATERNITY BASKET BALL
American League.
Alpha Pi 24, XI Sigma Upsilon 15. 
Sigma Alpha Epsilon 14, Beta 
Theta PI 13.
Delta Mu won by forfeit from XI 
Sigma UpsMon.
Beta Theta PI won by forfeit from 
Woodlawn Club.
National League.
Boss Hall 23, Delta Upsilon 7.
Iota Sigma Delta 24, Sigma EpBilon 
Bhi 10.
Sigma Nu 17, Square & Compass 8.
Federal League.
Theta Xl-Delta 23, Epsilon Omoga 
18.
DESIGN GIRLS WIN FROM
MARGARET MORRISON
Last Thursday afternoon in the 
Margaret Morrison gym there was a 
game of basket ball played which 
would rival many of the varsity 
games in spirit and team work. The 
score was 15 to 13 in favor of De­
sign. The lineup was as follows: 
Design. M. M. Sophs.
Taylor ..................F.................... Wilt
Hoffman ...............F....................... Hill
Burrows ........... .G.................... Heck
Vallowe .................G................ Kendall
Perkins ..............H. C.............. Bond
Beyer ................S. C................. ..........
Substitution — Wilson for Beyer. 
Referee—Bowman.
If you pass the re-examination you 
have nothing to worry about. If you 
don’t, one ’ of two things will hap­
pen. You will repeat the subject or 
you will be asked to leave.
S. A. E. DEFEATS BETAS AND 
WINS LEAGUE CHAMPIONSHIP
In ono of tho closost and hardest 
fought games of tho Intor-Fratornlty 
Leagues, S. A. E. took ovor Beta 
Theta PI, 14-12, on Tuesday ovoning 
of last week. Tho gamo determined 
the pennant winners In tho American 
League. Numbers of rootors for 
both sides surrounded tho , Langley 
Lab. lloor and chcored on their fa­
vorites.
Both teams put up a good brand 
of basket ball although . tho Botaa 
were stronger on tho pass work, but 
weak In shooting. Alexander scored 
all of the points for S. A. E., mak­
ing one long shot through the girders 
for a field goal. For tho Betas, Tay­
lor and Weirman were the outstand­
ing stars. The lineup:
S. A E.—14. Beta Theta Pi.—13.
Alexander ............F.................. Taylor
Lowstutter .............F............ Welman
Temmel .................G.................. Lake
Milils .....................G............... Williams
Hauser..................G...................Zlnn
Substitutions—Kirkpatrick for Low- 
stuter, Lowstutter for Kirkpatrick. 
Field goals—Alexander 3, Taylor 2, 
Weirman 2. Foul goals—Alexander, 
8 out of 10; Weirman, 5 out of 10. 
Referee—Fink. Umpire—Nichol.
Lafayette College, because of its 
undefeated football team, has receiv­
ed the award of the Eastern football 
championship trophy for the season 
of 1921 from the Veteran Athletes of 
Philadelphia. This medal is presented 
annually. The award went to Boston 
College In 1920.
STANDING OF LEAGUES
AMERICAN LEAGUE
Games.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon.................................................... 7
Beta Theta Pi ................................................................. 7
Alpha Pi .......................................................................... 7
Woodlawn Club .............................................................. 6
Kappa Sigma Rho ......................................................... 6
Scobell Hall .................................................................... 0
Delta Mu .......................................................................... G
XI Sigma Upsilon ...;................................................... 5
NATIONAL-]LEAGUE
Games.
Iota Sigma Delta ........................................................... 7
Sigma Nu ........................................................................ 0
Boss Hall ........................................................................ 7
PI Kappa Alpha ............................................................. 6
Delta Upsilon ................................................................. 7
Henderson Hall ............................................................. 7
Sigma Epsilon Phi ........................................................ G
Square and Compass ................................................... G
FEDERAL" LEAGUE
Games.
Kappa Sigma .................................................................. G
Tau Gamma Phi; ....................................................... G
Theta Xi .......................................................................... G
Delta Epsilon Omega ................................................... 6
Theta Tau ........................................................................ 6
Phi Epsilon PI ............................................................... 6
Delta Phi Delta.............................................................. 6
Won.
7
G
4 
3 
3 
1 
1 
0
Won.
7
f)
r,
3
3 
1 
1 
0
Won.
6
5
4 
3 
2 
1 
0
Lost.
0
1
3
3
3
/55
5
Lost.
0
1
2
3
4
5 
5 
G
Lost.
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
Pet.
1.000
.857
.571
.500
.500
.10G
.160
.555
Pet.
1.000
.833
.714
.500
.428
.285
.1GG
.555
Pet.
1.000
.833
.GGG
.500
.333
.166
.555
(Continued From Page One.) 
equally tho burdens of the ovoning 
and forced their opponents to tho 
limit for the decision.
While at Greenville the team was 
the guest of the Sadlie Aloph frater­
nity and no effort was spared upon 
the part of thelh hosts to make tholr 
stay an onoyablo ono. Hospitality was 
something the debaters will romom- 
bor for some time to como.
The second and last sorlos will 
tako place tho end of this week wlion 
tho affirmative team goes to Boavor 
Falla, engaging Genova^ Avthllo t;ho 
negative remains at homo to moot 
Grove City. The week will ho spout 
In porfooting arguments for tho last 
series and a double win Is hoped for 
In tho finals. Full returns from all 
five dobatoa are not yet at hand. Tho 
negative toam representing Tholl was 
also dofoatod by the affirmative of 
Geneva.
Tlio girls* basket ball toam closed 
their season last Saturday night 
with a defeat by Thiol, 19-17. The 
game throughout was thrilling, and 
full of fight, with neither side show­
ing any marked superiority ovor tho 
other. At no time during the gamo 
was the score separated by moro 
than two points, and the lead shifted 
back and forth, at ono time being 
hold by Thiel, and a few minutes 
later being held by tho Carnegie 
Tech girls.
Perhaps the most interesting part 
of tho game was tho playing of tho 
guards. Both guards worked well, and 
did material work in holding down 
the score Miss Dougherty and Miss 
Markey, both now guards for Car­
negie Tech, performed well, this be­
ing their first game of t,h6 season. 
Another Item of interest is tho won­
derfully improved form shown by Isa 
bol Winner in shooting fouls. She 
made 11 out of 1G, while Helen Reed 
maife her only chanco good. This 
performance was much bettor than 
that of the Thiel foul shooter, who 
made 5 out of 9. From the scoring 
standpoint. Miss A. Fischer was the 
star of Thiel, being responsible for 
13 out of Thiol’s 19 points. Miss 
Ritter also performod good, with 3 
field goals:
Much cradit is due Miss Bowman 
for the splendid team placed on tho 
floor by tho girls. Her spirit and en­
thusiasm had much to do with tho 
forming of the team and if it had not 
boon for lior the toam would vory 
likely not havo existed.
The lineup:
Carnegio Toch— Thiel—
Winnor ..................F.............. A. FIshor
Reed ...................F...................... Ritter
Montgomory -----C................... I-Iodgo
Eakln ................S. C...................... Bost
Dougherty ...........G............ K. Fishor
Markey .................G.................. Lynch
Oakland Savings 
& Trust Co.
Member Federal 
Reserve System
Capital......................$200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided
Profits...................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - $<1,000,000.00 
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
TARTAN TRACK MEN 
WIN SECOND PLACE
Kelley Finishes First in 50- 
Yard Event, Szold and 
Dykeman Star
Carneglo Toch’s track team carried 
away second honors in the Allegheny 
Mountain Association A. A. U. cham­
pionship Indoor track meet held last 
Saturday afternoon at the East 12nd 
Auditorium.
The University of Pittsburgh’s 
atlulotes won first honors by scoring 
33J points, with Carnoglo Toch sec­
ond with 17£ points and the West- 
inghouso Club third with 10 points. 
Kelley, wearing tho Plaid colors, 
finished first iii the 50-yard dash, 
equalling tlio record or 5 3-5 seconds 
while Lockwood finished fourth iu 
this event.
Bornie Szold finished second in 
¡the GOO yard run, losing by inches 
to Weiuloll of tho Westlnghouso 
Club, but in tho 300 yard dash ho 
unfortunately fell In the triad's aud 
consequently did not qualify for tho 
final boat in this event. Dykeman 
easily won tho two mile event, al­
most lapping Riley of Pitt, his near­
est competitor, while Lockwood add­
ed the final point, for the Tartans 
by tying for third placo in the high 
jump.
In the 1.000-yard run, Hays and 
Allen of Pitt, had too much expe­
rience for J. M. Kelly of Carnogie 
Tech, PB5WS finished a good third in 
this event.
Individual Points Scored.
Ii9lIoy ................................. 5
Szold .................................... 3
Dykeman ............................. 5
J. M. Kelily ....................... 1
Lockwood ............................. i
Total ..........................................14J
Davies & Hughes
"Dependable”
HATTERS AND MEN’S FURNISHERS 
Exclusive Oakland Dealero for
Fit nnd quality guaranteed, with moderate prices. 
3610 FORBES STREET OAKLAND
Next to Strand Theater.
THE CHURCHES OF CHRIST, SCIENTIST
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Announce a Free Looture on
CHRISTIAN SOCNCi:
By REV. ANDREW J. GRAHAM, C. S. B., OF BOSTON, MASS.
Member of tho Hoard of Locturonhlp of Tho Mother Church, Tlio First 
Church o£ Christ, Sclontliit In Boston, MaHHUOhuaottn.
Sunday, Mnroh 19, at 3:15 P. M.
NIXON THEATER, SIXTH AVENUE 
You Aro Cordially Invited To Attond.
MURAD
TWO THEC AWRNGEOTTO
Every day MURADS art held 
higher in the estimation of the men 
who smoke them.
They are the standard of Taste.
They never disappoint—never 
fail—never change—
They are 100% pure Turkish to- 
bacco—of the finest varieties grown.
You are proud to smoke them 
in any company—on any occasion.
They arc the largest selling high- 
grade cigarette in the world.
The cigarette smokers of America 
DO prefer Quality to Quantity.
Judge for Yourself-

---------------------------------------------------

FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, MARCH 15, 1922
Students, to get a reliable fountain 
| pen, Eversharp pencil, “Tech” recog- 
i nition or seal pin, brief case, school 
ring, personal stationery, etc., should 
call at the Singer Penn and Gift 
Shop in Jenkins Arcade.
MARGARET M0RRI80N ALUMNAEPITTSBURGH CLAN 
ELECTS OFFICERS
Alumni Party Date 
Changed to Mar. 31VARSITY CLANCLAN NEWSTwenty loyal alumnae, brave souls 
and true, dolled tho blizzard that 
heralded tho coming o).' March, and 
made their.way to the Hoc. Hali for 
a cup of tea and a bit of gosiilp. 
There wa» plenty of both to ho had 
for the asking. Five of these bravo 
oi’oaturcH belong to tho "O. L, A.” 
Twas over thus! And long may 
she wave!
THE TIDE WATER VIRGINIA CLAN Virginia pageant. Personal acknowl-
-------- edgcrnent was received from Dr. and
Tho Tlde-Wator Virginia-Clan held Mrs. Hamerschlag of the wire sent 
a very successful meeting on the to them at New York when sailing, 
afternoon of Saturday, March 4, end- The Clan expects to put a Te$h Art 
lng with supper at the Hotel Fairfax exhibit on in Norfolk the last week 
which lasted until quite late. There of April or the first week in May. 
were present T. L. Fltzglbbon, Mor- The next meeting of the Clan will 
ton CuHhnor, J. W. Phillips, W. B. take place on Saturday, April 1, at 
Rudolph, E. 33. Curtis, M. M. Fitz- 6:15 p. m., at the Hotel Fairfax. A 
Kugli, Jesse Harris' and Wm. I-I. supper will ¡be served and arrange- 
Sands- We had with us as a guest ments made for all present to attend 
Mr. F. F. Stearn who lias been fif- the musical comedy which will be 
teen years in ship building work as here on that date. All the Tech men 
ship's architect and who is contem- who contemplate being in Norfolk 
plating going to Tech. The Clan de- on that day are requested to get 
elded to Invite Dr. Thomas Wood in touch with W. H. Sands, Bank of 
Stevens; and Ills/1 assistant to come to Commerce Building, so that proper 
Norfolk for a week-end when they arrangements can be made to take 
are In Richmond next May at the care of them.
VARSITY CLAN OFFICERS
TO MEET IN GYMNASIUMProgram and Election to be 
Held at Fort Pitt Hotel 
March 18
Don’t Miss Alumni Party to 
be Held in the Arts 
Foyer at 8:15
The organization of graduate and 
alumni Carnegie letter men is known 
as the Varsity Clan. This organiza­
tion was founded in 1917 to keep to­
gether the men who had worked hard 
for Carnegie as students, and to pro­
vide a group of men which would be 
actively interested in athletics.
Last year the undergraduates form­
ed a junior varsity clan, modeled on 
the lines of the varsity clan, which 
Is called the “C” club.
There are now over five hundred 
men eligible for membership in the 
clan. Preparations are under way 
which will make the clan a force for 
betterment in Carnegie athletics and 
will enable the athletic authorities to 
call for aid from a body of gradu­
ates who are .intensely interested in 
their problems. A meeting of the 
Varsity Clan officers is being held 
tonight in the Varsity Club room in 
the gymnasium to discuss the prob­
lems of the clan.
REGULATING YOUR 
EXPENSES
The monthly meeting of tho Pitts­
burgh Clan Is to bo hold Saturday, 
March 18, at 12:30, in the Assembly 
Room of the Fort Pitt Hotel, A 
real Tech program ha« boon arranged 
for this meeting. Speechos will bo
made by several of Tech's most
prominent graduates. Tho committee 
for nomination of off 1001*8, Mr. Clar­
ence Ovorond, Mr. L. T. Kelly, Mr. 
L. H. Lee, will mako a report at 
the meeting and officers for tho next 
year will bo elected. The Pittsburgh 
Clan has progressed rapidly during 
tho past year and it lsi their hope 
that this is just a beginning of a 
real live organization. This will 
be a real opportunity for Toch mon 
and women living In Pittsburgh 
who luivo not attended tho Clan 
mootings to see just what their
Alma Muter stands for. Wo aro a 
young alumni association and can 
therefore afford to receive advice 
and constructive criticism so every­
body out for tills mooting. Let us 
know how you feol about Tech.
No Tech alumnus or alumna 
wants to miss the Annual Alumni 
Federation Party which will be held 
on Friday evening, March 111, in the 
College of Arts. Please note tho 
change in date from March HO to 
¡March 31. At 8:15 the Croat Kath­
erine will bo presented in the Little, 
Theater by members of tho Drama 
Department. At nine o'clock there 
will bo dancing in the Arts’ Foyer. 
Music will bo furnished by ono of 
Tech's best. Novelties will be a 
feature .of the ovoning. For those 
who do not care for the rush of the 
jazz there will be some of the good 
old fashioned Schottlshes and two- 
steps. Punch and cake will be 
served as refreshments. Remember 
the party last year. Well this is 
going to be ten times better so you 
cannot afford to miss it. Tickets 
will be on sale in the Alumni Office 
and they can also be purchased from 
various members of tho Alumni 
Association within a week.
Every big corporation so 
regulates its operating ex­
penses as to give a profit.
The same regulation ap­
plied to your income will 
leave a surplus each month 
which we shall be glad to in­
vest for you, be it small or 
big.
Cot sot now for tho card party 
which will bo hold on Saturday aft* 
ornoon, April 25. Lydia Bates Clock 
Is obulririan for this event and sho 
will bo assisted by the Ways and 
Moans Committee consisting of Mary 
Craighead Brlnton, Laura FMnn 
Spooner, Margaret Wlrth and Ma­
rlon Keefer. . Bridge will bo featured 
but there will bo "500" also for 
those who do not wish to play 
bridge. There will bo no progression 
but players at each table will pivot. 
Get together, classmates, and make 
up a table of your own. Bring your 
own friends and neighbors and fill 
as many tables as you can. This is 
our big benefit and wo want to make 
it bigger than over this year. Now 
that we have three hundred members 
why should wo limit our benevolence 
to a single scholashlp? We are not 
only abundantly able to glvo more 
but should fool It a duty. Many 
more scholarships are needed than 
are now provided for. Let every 
body help. Tables will be $4.00 each, 
single admission $1.00. That 1b cer­
tainly cheap for an afternoon’s en­
joyment. Make your reservations 
early.
FACULTY PERSONALALUMNI NOTES
Mr. Robert S. Craig, a graduate 
of Industries, 1921, wishes to an­
nounce that he has opened an office 
at 2 Haag Place, Pittsburgh, for the 
transaction of general drafting busi­
ness. Mr. Craig will be at this of­
fice during the day and will be very 
glad to talk with anybody interested 
in this business.
President and Mrs. Hamerschlag 
are now In Algiers. Mrs. Hamer­
schlag wrote tocher son, Nelson, 
about two weeks ago, that they were 
on the second day of a forty-day 
motor trip.
O. K. RESTAURANT 
A. WALTER, Propr. 
116 OAKLAND AVENUEWORLD PEACE DISCUSSED
AT GENERAL ASSEMBLYDr. diaries Gott attended the Na­
tional Conference on Uniform En­
trance Requirementsi in Englishi on 
February 22, as one of the dele­
gates of the College Entrance Exam­
ination Board. The meeting was 
held in the rooms of the Carnegie 
Foundation in New York. The chief 
business of the conference was the 
revision of the entrance requirements 
for 1923-1926. Fourteen delegates 
were present. The other college rep­
resentativos were Dean Stoddard of 
New York University, Dean Quinn 
of the University of Pennsylvania, 
and Professors Pearson of Massa­
chusetts Institute of Technology, 
Emery of Dartmouth, Farley of Wes­
leyan, Steeves of Columbia, Northup 
of Cornell and McCleland of Uni­
versity of Pennsyvania.
(Continued From Page One.-j 
in parts not as far distant as that.
“But fortunately for the future of 
peace a more or less articulate con­
sciousness of the need for a better 
understanding among the nations of 
the world arose and resulted in the 
calling of that epoch-making meet­
ing at Washington. History will, I be­
lieve, give a large share of the credit 
for the calling of that conference to 
the fighting senator from Idaho, Wil­
liam E. Borah. He is a rare example 
of an American politician who takes 
his conscience for his guide. Al­
though I have often differed with 
him on many subjects and have op­
posed his views, I never have nor 
never will fail to give him credit for 
this achievement and always for his 
courage and independence.
“The original Borah resolution 
called for a three-power conference 
and was amended to include France 
and Italy; it really provided for the 
carrying out of that part of the 
Treaty of Versailles which had been 
embodied in the League of Nations 
covenant. The League of Nations as 
such is dead and burled in America, 
yet its spirit lives, if by another 
name. So long as we find a way to 
make war more difficult to initiate or 
to continue we should be grateful no 
matter by what name the method is 
called. We should be thankful for an 
honest sincere attempt to place rea­
son instead of emotion, brains in­
stead of blood as the arbiters of in­
ternational difficulties.
“What foreign diplomats are pleas­
ed to call ‘shirt sleeve* diplomacy, the 
open, cards on the table method 
which Secretary Hughes followed in 
the opening of that memorable con­
ference left our meaning impossible 
of misinterpretation and will yet be 
hailed as marking a great epoch in 
the world’s history.
“But what we need for peace is not 
merely the signing of documents by 
statesmen and ministers plenipoten­
tiary, but a continuance by the peo­
ple of that demand for peace which 
brought about the conference. We 
must think of amity instead of arms, 
feel friendship instead of fear; we ! 
must put brotherhood in the place 
of blood and look forward with 
hope instead of backward with liate.”
In closing Mr. Swope expressed his 
hearty interest in Carnegie Tecli, and* 
announced that lie would provide a 
sum of one hundred dollars, fifty"dol- 
lars each for the young man and 
young woman who at the end of the 
school year were judged to have done 
the most for Carnegie. Following an­
nouncements the men of the Glee 
Club gave several numbers, includ­
ing a medley of popular numbers, all 
of which were well received.
Those who did not attend this as­
sembly should regret haying passed 
up a very important and interesting 
event.
FIRST CHURCH OF CHRIST, 
SCIENTIST 
Clyde Street, Pittsburgh. 
SUNDAY SERVICES 
11 A. M. S P. M.
Sunday School................11 A. M.
Wednesday Evening 
Service ............................8 to 9
Mr. L. H. Lee, a graduate of In­
dustries, 1909, a member of the firm 
of Lee & Carpenter, electrical con­
tractors, wishes to announce that 
he has recently incorporated a new 
company to be known as the Wire­
less Electric Company. The loca­
tion of this company will be at 204 
Stanwix street and will be open for 
business about May 10.
SENATOR PEPPER TO SPEAK
HERE FOUNDER'S DAYf SKIBO INN |
Kemodeled and J 
Enlarged 
\ CLEAN, |
X WHOLESOME
% FOOD ?
f. 7.£ Served at best prices 
| CIGARS CANDY
(Continued From Page One.) 
objects Illustrating the work in scien­
tific exploration and natural history.
Classes are held as usual at Car­
negie Tech on Founder’s Day, but It 
is hoped that some arrangement will 
be made whereby the students can 
hoar Senator Pepper's address. The 
international exhibition of paintings 
can be seen by the students after 
that date and it will be an exhibition 
well worth seeing.
TWT ajr OHEC A s
RESTAURANT AND 
LUNCH ROOM
Best Meals at reasonable 
prices.
3719 Forbes St. Oakland
Meredith Elliott of the class of 
1921 has been selected by Mr. Lee 
to become Manager of Production in 
the retail store, “The Wireless Elec­
tric Company.” Thip company will1 
manufacture their own special radio 
sets. Radio sets purchased will be 
delivered to the home and installed. 
Please watch The Tartan for an ad­
vertisement which will soon appear 
giving more in detail the opening 
of this new company.
Tech Barber Shop
Nearest to Tech.
Cor. Craig and Forbes
Fred Fargel, Proprietor 
Nearest and Best 
Laundry Agency.
iiniii!ninniiiiDiiiiiiiiiiin]iiiiiiniiiiii!iHiii!ii!:i!iiiiiiiiD!HD!iiniin»iiiinniinnui»iifli[
Colonel Fairley addressed the
monthly meeting of the C. I. T. 
Branch of the« American Institute of 
Electrical Engineers February 24, 
on “Underground Cable Construction 
and • Conduit 'Systems.” Professor 
Work will be the toastmaster at the 
annual banquet of this organization 
on March 18.
HOME CONCERT TOBELLEFI ELD 
PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH 
“The Church of Friendly People” 
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D.D., 
Minister.
Sabbath School......... 9:45 A.M.
Morning Service........11:00 A.M.
Christian Endeavor.. 7:00P.M.
Evening Service........ 8:00 P.M.
All Tech students will receive 
a cordial welcome here.
CONCLUDE SEASON
(Continued- From Page One.)
Mandolin Club 
12. Songs of Carnegie Tech..C. I. T.
Ensemble 
Tickets for the concert are avail­
able from any member of the clubs 
and may be reserved in the lobby of 
the Central Building any day this 
week from Tuesday noon on. Tickets 
for the concert are from 50c to $1.50. 
The assessment for the dance is $1.50 
a couple. Fraternities may have seats 
reserved in a body on Monday even­
ing at 9:30.
There will be one post season con­
cert tills year. Tills will be a joint 
concert and dance at P. C. W. on 
March 21st. All tho men participat­
ing In the Home Concert will be eli­
gible. ,.
Professor Crabtree read a paper 
on “Americanization” before the Phil­
osophical Society , of Pittsburgh at 
its meeting Monday evening at the 
Lincoln Club. . ,
Prof. R. Z. Virgin has recently had 
a book published on “Mine Manage­
ment.’’ It is a handbook for voca­
tional schools, mining colleges and 
universities, Professor Virgin is the 
author of a number of books on coal 
mining.
RENTING A SPECIALTY 
Why worry about 
c I o th e s for the next 
party? Let the outfitters 
rig you out from head to 
foot.
Whittington 
Dress Suit Co.
JENKINS ARCADE
Miss Breed Is now at Atlantic City 
recuperating from her recent illnoss.
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
PRESENT AND FUTUREpondltures are clqarly autles ol! a 
function of the government.
Tlio judicial function is the one 
which will necessitate careful plan­
ning, and will probably come as a 
gradual evolution out of the new 
system of government. It is a well 
known fact that students are general­
ly more severe In cases requiring 
punitive action that is the adminis­
tration. There is no question of 
fairness involved. It is recognized 
that any disciplinary body tries to 
evaluate each situation according to 
the individual merit or demerit. It 
is not a question of the faculty giv­
ing up some cherished power. Gen­
eral opinion has indicated to me that 
that body is only waiting., until a 
suitable student body is organized 
to take over their duties. A group 
of two seniors, together with one mem­
ber from the administration, or three 
Seniors with one member from the 
administration and one from the 
faculty, would be a body, which given 
the proper atmosphere and physical 
surroundings, would satisfactorily act 
as an executive court, responsible 
only to the president of the .insti­
tute.
The executive function, which over­
laps on two of the other functions, 
will be the most complicated of the 
group. It will unite tlie four col­
leges, provide a chief student execu­
tive officer and a small efficient ex­
ecutive committee, connect the stu­
dent 'to the administration through 
the executive officer, provide suffi­
cient red tape to secure the best ac­
tion on every proposition and yet to 
cut out ail unnecessaiy forms, be 
responsible for all student money, 
provide for proper means of initiat­
ing new ideas, methods and customs, 
preserve records, provide for all 
elections and the enforcement of all 
actions of the executive function and 
the activities committees.,
This is but a brief of the problem 
of Carnegie student government. A 
thosia would be necessary, to cover 
the necessities of the situation. It 
is a complicated problem which 
should have the best thought of 
three or five men for at least a year. 
These mon should understand the 
problems of organization and should 
have a fair knowledge of the pres­
ent situation. A big change such as 
this will be, cannot be made in a 
month or a year, but will only come 
about through several years. Some 
one has said, "“Revolution Is justified 
only where evolution is impossible." 
I. am satisfied that the evolution of 
a suitable student, government at 
Carnegie can only come as the res- 
suit of a basic revolution in the 
near future. If the students desire 
an efficient student government with 
the proper.- powers, they must be
(Continued From Page Two.) 
thing good about the dog, forgets tho 
trouble tho dog has 'caused, casts 
aside tho offer of tho .pup, which Is 
really a muoli hotter dog, and raises 
the blnnkoty, blunkoty, blank with 
Cheney. Tho memory of that act 
goes with Colos to the grave It is 
a constant scourco of trouble in tho 
neighborhood. How much better would 
It have been for Clioney to talk tho 
situation ovor with Coles and re­
quest Ills sanction to the killing of 
the dog, at the same time offering 
the pup. The pest would probably 
have been Idled, if tho act was justi­
fied, the pup would have a new 
faster, and every body would be hap­
py. Then if Coles would not listen 
to reason, Cheney could still kill' the 
dog.
So Ave can imagine that there are 
several points, at least, at which the 
present system of student govern­
ment is very weak; points, which are 
now causing some trouble, and which, 
will handicap the student govern­
ment three years from now in a 
very severe manner.
It Would be impossible for* any 
person to suggest a definite plan for 
student government in such a short 
time, hut there are certain func­
tions which could be borne in mind 
by the men in school now, on the 
committee, who are capable of solv­
ing .part of the problem in the three 
months remaining of this school 
year. It is possible to divide stu­
dent government here in to about five 
functions, which ave purely abltrary:
1. Relations with administration 
(College.)
2. Financial.
3. Non-athletic activities.
4. Judicial.
5. Executive.
Student funds have grown to such 
proportions that there is an abso­
lute need of a financial organization, 
properly bonded, to account for and 
to handle the transactions of tho 
stndeiit body. It should be respon­
sible to their chief executive of tho 
government, and should probably 
handle all funds which amount to 
ovor three hundred dollars. It is to 
be noted that this does not affect tho 
budgets of ''Organisations, nor their 
expenditures., butnierMy provides for 
the proper accounting of the money 
haudled. It Is recognized that a 
clear knowelge dr the practices of 
accounting is necessary to fulfill the 
position of treasurer of an organiza­
tion and but few treasurers have 
this knowledge.
Handling non-atliletlc activities, 
prescribing regulations, approving 
contracts and budgets, sanctioning 
election of officers,, and approving ex-
DMP19 wMSUToMG
Fifth Avenuo Boot Sciop
;neEr -lOtii Street, New York. 
MASTER-MADE FOOTWEAR
Our lifelong knowledge of choice 
tobaccos, our years of manufacturing 
experience and our up-to-date facilities 
are concentrated on making CAMELS 
the finest cigarette that can be produced.
Into THIS OWE ERAS'D we put the 
UTMOST QUALITY. Â better cigarette 
cannot be made—even for a higher price.
CAMELis THE QUALITY CIGARETTE 
—made for men who think for themselves 
—for folks who appreciate really fine 
tobacco.
©ME BRAKD—OWE QUALITY—ONE 
SIZE PACKAGE.
That is the way we keep faith with the 
smoker.
Exhibit Shop 
Jenkins Arcade, Pittsburgh.
rENUSPENCILS
T^OR the student or prof., 
the 'superb VENUS out­
rivals all for perfect pencil 
¦work. 17 black degrees anti 
3 copying.
American Lead Pencil Co.
220 FifthAvc.
NewYork sfy
PSYCHOLOGICAL CORPORATION
IS NOW ORGANIZED
(Continued From Page One.) 
ress will be accelerated, in a geomet­
rical ratio.
The problem of selection for gen­
eral intelligence and for special apti­
tudes or training is one in wliicn 
psychology can be of - great service 
at the present time. If standard tests 
are developed to he used everywhere, 
both among employes in groups and 
with individuals seeking employment 
or advancement, the corporation can 
give useful employment to many psy­
chologists and probably earn suffi­
cient income to carry on its work, and 
by research improve and standardize 
the tests.
The corporation intends to use all 
it3 earnings in research work, no divi­
dends in excess of six dollars per 
share to be paid during any calen­
dar year. It also is provided that the 
American Psychological Association 
can take over any or all 'stock upon 
the payment of one hundred dollars 
per share.
Inrpesridllni quality pencil 
in ¡he vjarli
mom
NewestCreation
If you’re lucky you have nothing 
to worry about if you're not, one of 
two things will happen. You’ll pass 
or you won’t.Peppermint fla- ^ 
vored chewing gum 
with Peppermint 
Sugar Coating.
Sugar jacket 
“melts in your . 
mouth,” leaving f 
the deliciously / 
flavored gum f 
center to aid fi 
digestion, \ 
brighten teeth \ 
and soothe \ 
mouth and throat.
prepared to assume the accompany­
ing responsibilities, but it must be 
kept in iftind that although there is 
a complete system of government in­
stituted and although there are fine 
offices and a theoreticallj1- fine or­
ganization, yet the main pinion is 
the officer elected to he the chief 
executive.
H G. NICHOL, JR.
Music
RONGID
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO., Winston-Salem, N. C.
ALUMNI PAGE
