The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 37 No. 20 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA. TUESDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1943
YM-W Canteen Open 
Saturday And Sunday; 
Free Breakfast, Luncli
Soldiers stationed at Carnegie 
Tech are conspicuous by their ab­
sence at the “Y” Canteen. The 
reason for the situation is probably 
that the Carnegie Tech ASTers do 
not know of the wonderful facilities 
that await them at the Canteen, 
which is situated on Bellefield Ave­
nue opposite the University of Pitts­
burgh.
The greatest and most well- 
known feature of the canteen is the 
Sunday morning breakfast which 
includes fruit juice, eggs, cereal, 
toast, coffee, doughnuts, pancakes 
and other delicious food to make a 
perfect breakfast. In order to take 
care of stay-a-beds, breakfast is 
served from 9:00 a. m. to 12 noon.
After noon, however, the Canteen 
is still open for cokes, cookies, and 
sandwiches. When a serviceman 
has finished appeasing his hunger 
he may read the newspapers, write 
letters, or dance with one of the 
comely and personable junior host­
esses. The Canteen remains open 
for dancing and refreshments until 
9:30 p. m.
Sunday is not the only time when 
a soldier can come to the Canteen,
The painting of “Gregor Piatrigorsky” by Waman Adams, shown 
above, was awarded the first prize of $1,000 in the Carnegie Institute Ex- 
for it is open on SSturday als6,“iroftr '' hibitfrmr<jfPaxntvr^ tn'-tihe-United States.
3:00 p. m. to 12 midnight, again of- * * * * *
Carnegie Institute Art Exhibit
An item of interest not only to Samuel Rosenberg’s “Whither”
art lovers but to the laymen as well Russell Twiggs’ “Construction 33”
was the opening, on October 14 at Waman Adams, one of America’s
Carnegie Institute, of the largest foremost portrait and figure paint- 
and most inclusive showing of con-
fering refreshments, dancing, and 
friendly company.
Although the Canteen is operated 
under the auspices of the YM & 
WHA it is open to servicemen of all 
faiths.
It is hoped that more Tech sol­
diers will avail themselves of the 
boundless opportunities of the “Y” 
Canteen which can easily be reach­
ed by going down Forbes Street and 
turning right at Bellefield Avenue.
C.I.T. Quota In War 
Fund Drive Is $6400
During the two weeks between 
October 18 and November 5, Car­
negie Tech, along with the rest of 
the nation, is sharing in the United 
War Fund Campaign. Carnegie’s 
drive is headed by Mr. Kent Shaf­
fer, who is head of the Educational 
Section of the city-wide drive. The 
campaign here is being conducted in 
the following manner: Student so­
licitors are selected to speak to cer­
tain classes with the appeals ar­
ranged so that every student will 
be reached. Many of the ASTP, 
Fine Arts, and Engineering students 
have been solicited already, while 
the others and the Margaret Morri­
son students are to be solicited this 
week. After they finish their ap­
peals, the speakers pass around en­
velopes in which the students place 
their contributions. If it is more 
convenient, the contribution need 
not be paid all at once; but it may 
be divided into two deferred pay­
ments. The first of these payments 
will be due November 20 and the 
second on December 11, both paya­
ble at the cashier’s office. After the 
•• = Continued on page 5
temporary American painting ever, 
displayed in Pittsburgh.
In the show are 304 paintings 
done within the last five years by 
painters all of whom are living ex­
cept one who died after his paint­
ing was accepted. Represented 
among the paintings are those by 
five professors from the Art School 
here at Carnegie Tech:
Clarence H. Carter’s “Let Us Give 
Thanks”
Balcomb Greene’s “The Magic 
Shadow”
Roy Hilton’s “Laparotrachlo- 
tomy”
MAG Goes AE Phi
Local Tech Sorority 
Pledges Nat’l Group
Last Sunday afternoon ushered 
in a new chapter in Carnegie Tech’s 
history as the members of Mu Al­
pha Gamma, the baby sorority on 
campus, pledged a national soror­
ity. The pledging cererriony, held 
at the apartment of the University 
of Pittsburgh Chapter of Alpha 
Epsilon Phi, was especially signifi­
cant, as it marked the 34th anniver­
sary of the founding of Alpha Ep­
silon Phi. The first chapter was 
organized at Barnard College in 
New York, October 24, 1909, and 
the organization has grown until 
Continued on page 3
ers, was the winner of the first prize 
which carried with it an award of 
$1,000 for his painting “Gregor Pi- 
atigorsky.” He has remarkable abil­
ity in grasping character and de­
picting that character clearly and 
freshly.
The Exhibition will continue 
through December 12, 1943, during 
which time the galleries will be 
open, free to the public, on week­
days from 10:00 a. m. to 10:00 p. m. 
and on Sundays from 2:00 p. m. to 
6: 00 p. m.
Pictures For Thistle 
To Be Taken This Sunday
The group pictures for the THIS­
TLE will be continued this Sunday 
behind the Union. Because of war­
time conditions of material and 
time, it will be impossible to retake 
or reschedule any shots. So come 
out and get your smiling face in 
the yearbook.
Alpha Kappa Psi 12:50
Alpha Theta Sigma 1:10
Beta Theta Pi 1:30
Beta Tau Lambda 1:40
Gartima Gamma Gamma 2:00
Gamrra Phi Sigma 2:20
Mu Alpha Gamma 2:50
Cwens 3:20
Technical 3:30
Thistle 3:40
Interhonorary Council 3:50
W.A.A. 4:00
K?ppa Phi Delta 4:10
Beta Pi 4:10
Delta Upsilon Officers 4:30
Tau Delta Phi • 4:35
Theta Xi 4:50
Carnegie Welcomes 
Alumni On Friday
Despite the difficulties of war­
time transportation and the fact 
that many changes have taken place 
during the past year, Carnegie 
Tech expects to welcome a sizeable 
group of Alumni on Friday, the 29th 
of October, when the traditional 
homecoming festivities will begin.
Since at least fifty per cent of the 
classes of ’08, ’13, ’18, ’23„ ’28, ’33 and 
’28, who will be returning this year, 
live within fifty miles of Pittsburgh, 
Carl M. Dozer, A’36, this year’s 
homecoming chairman, expects that 
a great number of Tech graduates 
will come back to Carnegie to re­
new old friendships and relive a 
few pleasant times which they once 
had.
This year, more than ever before, 
homecoming week will be of special 
significance, in that it will be a 
great morale builder to those grads 
who may be spurred on by their 
past memories of Tech. The classes 
of 1918 and 1938 are expected to 
have a greater time than ever be­
fore, since the class of 1918 is cele­
brating its silver anniversary 
while the class of 1938 is coming 
back to campus for its first official 
get-together since graduation.
An attractive program tras been 
prepared for the pleasure of the 
Alumni. From their headquarters 
in the University Room of Webster 
Hall, dubbed "Hie Carnegie Home­
coming Canteen,” the homecoming 
committee anticipates directing a 
full evening of events calculated to 
keep everyone in a whirl from nine 
o’clock Friday morning to twelve 
midnight. The first big event on 
the program, the informal dinner 
and dance at the Imperial Room at 
Webster Hall, will be preceeded by 
a luncheon and a tea sponsored by 
the Pittsburgh Women’s Clan. Ear­
ly Saturday morning there will be 
a council meeting at Carnegie 
Union followed by class reunion 
luncheons. Then the big event to 
which every loyal Techite has been 
looking forward . . . The Pitt-Tech 
game. Everyone will go to the game 
to sing the songs and shout the 
cheers of a “Dear Old Tech.”
To all these Alumni who will be 
with us this Friday, and to all the 
loyal Tech men who couldn't be 
back this year, we wish the best of 
luck. We also hope you have a 
wonderful time.
On The Record
The following programs have 
been chosen for the music recitals 
to be given in the Exhibition Room. 
Fine Arts, between 12:00 and 1.00:
Tuesday, October 26, 1943 
Double Concerto for Violin and ’Cello.
....................................................... Brahms
Thursday, October 28, 1913
Symphony No. 4 .............................Sibelius
Friday, October 29, 1943
Sonata in G major. Op. 78...........Brahms
The Friday program will feature 
Gosta Andreasson, violinist, and 
Selmar Janson, pianist, members 
of the faculty, Department of 
Music.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1943
CSUo^L Atoncluu/i
A war is not over with the cessation of organized hostility. A national 
emergency does not end with the hauling down of the last enemy war 
flags. The world will, at that critical moment of armistice, be poised on 
the brink of riotous conflagrations, economic disorders and social upheav­
als. Boiling, heaving Europe will provide many a terrible scene of violence 
and destruction before its many factions can be harnessed to the giant 
tasks ahead. Slaves cannot be freed without violence; and there are so 
many slaves. Our efforts to recreate a balanced order of things will seem 
utterly puny against the powers set loose by the crushing of air-organized 
opposition. Never before in all history will so few men be called upon to 
do so much in so many places at once, or so rapidly. They will wish they 
had had the wisdom of Solomon and the patience of a saint. These men will 
be called upon to set right a society long gone astray. They will need to be 
technical men, for there will be much to rebuild. By the time the entire 
world has been regained there will be little that will not have to be rebuilt. 
The plans for the post-war orders and systems will be then in effect. The 
entire economic framework will have to be readjusted and the work will 
call for extensively trained men capable of handling the transportation 
and distribution of the essentials of life to people who have known little 
but poverty and scarcity since Poland and Pearl Harbor. Jobs must be 
provided for every man capable of working so as to reestablish the social 
organization as soon as possible and permit them to supply their own 
needs. Where no social organization before existed all the physical funda­
mentals for social living must be provided. It will be a far more satisfying 
task than was the initial destruction of wheatever these people possessed.
There will be need to be judges, for there will be so many decisions to 
make. Trustworthiness has disappeared in the countries under domination 
and who will there be but these leaders to determine the proper organiza­
tion and political setup for every town, village and hamlet shaken by war 
and revolt? Our leadership must provide the necessary cooperation from 
people who could not be beaten into submission my our enemies. If the 
civilian population will not accept them, the ambitious little opportunities 
might well have to be heaved off the band wagon and responsible ones 
chosen to represent us.
They will need to be soldiers, for there will be conflicts for a decade. 
Men who have killed for more than four years will not become docile 
under the control of our armies. They have been taught to hate. Their 
cities have been bombed—their families killed. They will not forgive or 
forget easily or quickly. They will fight and struggle in battles that may 
last longer than the war. The battles will not resemble the organized 
conflicts tsat will close the war, but, instead, they will be the vicious, 
treacherous street fights that follow the breakdown of organization and 
domination.
No man in America will fail to have his chance to battle for law and 
order. No man’s effort can be spared from these things if ever there is to 
be security for us and ours on the earth. If ever energy should be spared 
from the immediate tasks that confront us, this energy must be directed 
to the effort necessary for the restoration of the world.
one of the girls
We extend deepest sympathies to Miss Ellenor Tallmadge in the death 
of her father, who passed away last week. Miss Tallmadge is the secretary 
in the News Bureau to whom we owe great debts of thanks for her generous 
help with our staff.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the 
staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not 
to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technolory, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh, Pa.
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2600 PHONE SCHENLEY 4567
Mf>M8ENTCD FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY . _ _ __ ,,
^ . °UrS. III. 7.93
420 Madison ave. new York. n.y. Business Manager........................SC. 8951CM1CA60 • Boston • Los AKCELIS • SAN FlAHCISCO
Entered »a secona-cHtss matter In the Pittsburgh Post Office under the Act of March 3, 1879. Published weekly during school year, except holidays and examination periods.Subscription Price $1.10 per year.
Managing Editor ...................................................................................Louisa Saul
Make-up Editor..............................................................................Ernie Lowenstein
Editor-in-chief.......................................................................................................T. J. Harmany
business Manager.......................................................................................................... Nick Reed
Co-Managing Editors........................................................................Louisa Saul, Walt Darby
Copy Editors.................................................................................Elaine Levin, Gerry Edelson
Sports Editor..........................................................................................................Jim Montague
Assistant Business Manager .................................................................................... Merle Wolff
Personnel Manager ............................................................................................... Naomi Ellman
Circulation ......................................................................................................... Chester Feinberg
Photography Editor ................................................................................. ............. Tom Bokman
Photography Staff............................................................................Dick Bingham, Joe Urban
Sports Staff: John Lindberg, Mike Gingold, John Krummell, Dick O’Neill, Al
• Neleson, Andy Pepper, Chuck Peterson, Ed Von Halle.
Reporters: Aron Beck, Gerald Brickman, Lois Brunn, Audrey Colledge, Walter Ell­
man, Lucille Emmel, Tom Farrahay, Mary Jane Ferguson, Malcolm Festenstein, 
Al Ganschow flick Georges, John Glass, Nancy Goodwin, Adeline Herlick, Dolores 
Horovitz, Bill Kolb, Ernie Lowenstein, Theresa McLaughlin, Bill McShane, Helen 
Miller, Janet Murray, Marshall Nurenberg, Natalie Nathan, Mary Jane Paine, Al­
bert Perry, Marie Raynal, Gerry Racusin, Lucille Schulberg, Harriet Sidler, Bob 
Sugarman, Jolene Svirman, Ruth Tisherman, Alma Weinberger, Hanah Esterman, 
Clara Herron, Carolyn Srulson.
Jean Weinkauf is a talkative 
young thing who goes in for char­
acters, and she sees lots of them on 
the Wilkinsburg bus which brings 
her to school. She got her philoso­
phy of life from a bus driver, which 
may account for the fact that she 
doesn’t adhere to it too closely. The
philosophy is “Never trust a man.” 
But she made an exception in the 
case of Lt. Robert J. Spears, who 
gave her the diamond that she has 
been wearing since the tenth of 
July.
Smiling, one-dimpled Jean is in 
Mortar Board and Phi Kappa Phi. 
She was in the Glee Club, and last 
year she was Junior Class secretary 
and secretary of Margaret Morrison
Tech Men Fall To 
Girls In Blood Bank
In a recent radio broadcast, Gen­
eral Dwight Eisenhower declared:
“This is a hard war, a bitter, 
bloody war. Make no mistake. Our 
men know it and are ready for it. 
But they want to be assured above 
all else that the home front is be­
hind them.”
If YOU are backing them up, 
show it — Carnegie Tech week at 
the Blood Bank, November 15 to 
November 20. According to Miss 
Louise Russell, chairman of Tech’s 
drive, appointments may be had any 
time during the week, Monday 
through Friday, from 9:45 a. m. to 
8:00 p. m. and on Saturday from 12 
until 2. If you are under 21, con­
sent slips are necessary and must 
be returned with pledges by No­
vember 5. Registrations on campus 
are being taken every Tuesday in 
A.H. and MM and any time in R.101, 
Gym.
Despite the fact that they them­
selves may be needing it some day, 
Tech’s male population is far be­
hind the fair sex in its blood con­
tributions. In statistics recently re­
vealed by the Committee it was 
found that there were only 20 men 
to the 80 women present on the last 
Tech Day at the Wabash building. 
Though this is a startling contrast 
the men will have a chance to re­
deem themselves as Tech continues 
to have one week each month de­
voted to the Blood Drive.
Don’t forget folks, November 15 
to 20 is the next campaign. Let’s do 
our part and back the boys to the 
fullest extent by making this a real 
Carnegie Tech week at the Blood 
Bank.
. . . Jean Weinkauf
Senate. Her sorority is Alpha 
Theta Sigma, of which she is presi­
dent.
Since she is a “secretarial,” she 
would like to work in a doctor’s of­
fice or in industry when she grad­
uate in December. But more than 
anything else in the world she 
wants to get married—to Lt. Spears, 
of course. That will mean learning 
how to live alone and like it, be­
cause neither of them thinks that 
trailing around the country from 
on ecamp to another is much of a 
life. Bob, who is in the Field Artil­
lery, has named a 150 mm. gun at 
Fort Sill, Oklahoma, after Jean.
In her off hours she likes music, 
reading, and movies, if they aren’t 
the extreme type; very intellectual 
books bore her (she gets enough 
heavy reading in her three English 
courses), and trash drives her crazy. 
Because she has an awful feeling all 
during a play that the players are 
going to forget their lines, she pre­
fers movies to the stage—it must be 
a sympathetic carry-over from pub­
lic speaking days. Her taste in 
clothes runs to very tailored things 
on top; underneath, she will take 
them as fussy as she can find them.
Swimming is the one active sport 
she likes; otherwise she is all for 
spectator sports. Baseball is her 
favorite; she always knows who is 
playing whom and what place the 
Pittsburgh Pirates are in.
Two Members of Faculty 
Present Sonata Recital
Gosta Andreasson, violinist, and 
Selmar Janson, pianist, members of 
the faculty of the Department of 
Music, will present their third 
sonata recital this Sunday at 8:15 in 
the Theater, College of Fine Arts.
Tickets may be secured from Miss 
Lawton, Roopi 153, Fine Arts.
.. ACAC Minutes..
Twentieth Meeting 
October 20, 1943.
The meeting was called to order at 
5:30 p.m.
Present: Messrs. Sher, Talaber, Peter­
son, Marcus, and Fairchild; Misses Rial 
and Bloom.
COMMITTEE REPORTS............................
Mr. Peterson moved that the minutes 
of the Intramural Board meetings of Sep­
tember 27, October 4, and October 18 be 
accepted as read.
Motion carried.
Social
Miss Rial reported that the social cal­
endar is well filled for this semester and 
suggested that A. C. A. C. wait until next 
semester to plan a Sing and Swing. It 
was decided that plans for a Sing and 
Swing will be taken up next semester. 
Budgets
Mr. Sher moved that the Carnegie Tar­
tan budget be accepted.
Motion carried.
Mr. Sher moved that the Scottie budget
be accepted.
Motion carried.
Mr. Sher moved that the budget sub­
mitted by the Thistle staff be accepted.
Motion carried.
Mr. Sher moved that A. C. A. C. con­
tribute $400 to the Y. M. C. A.
Motion carried.
OLD BUSINESS
A. C. A. C. instructed Mr. Marcus, as 
representative of the Publications Com­
mittee, to impress upon the editorial 
board of the Tartan the necessity of sub­
stantiating the bases of editorials.
Adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,SALLY BLOOM,
Secretary.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1943THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
one of the profsQiue tyeGAA /¡(¡a MAG Goes AE Phi...
J. Vjck O’Brien, head of the 
Music Department of the College of 
Fine Arts and conductor of Car­
negie Tech’s symphony orchestra, 
began his activity in music at the 
age of seven, when he made “awful 
noises on a cornet.” As soon as he 
:had learned to play his cornet after 
a fashion, he got together a lot of 
kids who lived in the Thirty-Ninth 
Street neighborhood of his native 
Pittsburgh and started a brass band.
" He began playing the piano at Mt. 
;Gallitzen Seminary, a boarding 
school at Ebensburg, Pa., and at 
•the age of 13 composed several lyric 
piano pieces.
He received his early musical 
draining from prominent artists in 
his home town—Adolph Foerster, 
Luigi von Kunitz, and Joseph Otten. 
With this start and-with two years 
spent at the University of Notre 
; Dame, where incidentally he was 
.active in all musical affairs and or­
ganized a group known as “Vick’s 
Orchestra,” he went abroad to pre­
pare for his life work. In the decade 
'- between 1902 and 1912 he lived in 
¦ - Berlin, studying at the Hochschule 
With such masters as Humperdnick
- —the composer of the opera Hansl 
und Gretl—Carl Theil, and private­
ly with Frederick Koch and Jose 
Vianna DaMotta.
In 1912 he was appointed head 
of the Department of Music at Car­
negie Tech, a post he still retains. 
That year a small department had 
, been started with Dr. O’Brien, Karl
A. Malcherek and Arthur G. Bur- 
goyne in charge. The result of this 
venture was so satisfactory to the 
administration that it was decided 
to make the department a perma­
nent one and to broaden at once its 
activities.
One of the first steps was the or­
ganization of a symphony orchestra 
and the appointing of teachers for 
each instrument in the orchestra. 
This, together with the purchase of 
a full set of orchestra instruments 
for the students’ use, was done to 
assure a complete instrumentation.
The orchestra’s first public ap- 
, pearance was in 1914, and from then 
on its history is one of steady 
growth under the patient leadership 
of Dr. O’Brien. Prior to its entrance 
into radio broadcasting the orches­
tra spent five hours each week in 
rehearsal, and at least three import­
ant concerts were given each year 
in Carnegie Music Hall before ca­
pacity audiences.
These are the facts about Dr. 
O’Brien, or rather this is Dr. J. V. 
O’Brien. But these cold statistics, 
however, are but an impersonal 
framework for “Vick,” everybody’s 
friend. They are an official front 
for one of the most admired and be­
loved personalities on campus. Fact-
Better Cleaning
Better Rates 
Quicker Service
Campus Cleaners
4609 FORBES ST. 
MTJseum 1288
WE CALL AND DELIVER
. . . J. V. O’Brien
ual information, dates—even words 
cannot portray a professor whose 
own students say, “It is impossi­
ble to anything bad about Doc and 
very hard to say enough good.”
They are right, it is very hard to 
say enough good about Vick. Of 
course, he is a regular guy, a swell 
fellow . . . but he is infinitely more. 
One must know him personally to 
appreciate the incredible bigness 
and warmth of his character, his 
paradoxical shy joviality, his Irish 
brogue occasionally peeking out 
from behind his otherwise perfect 
English. Professor, Doctor of Music, 
Head of the Music Department . . . 
that’s Dr. J. V. O’Brien, but “Doc,” 
“Vick” means so much more. It’s 
his continuous wad of chewing gum 
—when Vick stopped smoking last 
year he took up chewing gum in 
tremendous quantities—his “Don’t 
you know?” It’s our Vick, a great 
musician and a greater man.
Daily Recital Programs 
Given In Exhibition Room
Those popular Tuesday and 
Thursday dates in the Exhibition 
Room with Bach, Beethoven, and 
Brahms — via records — have now 
become daily affairs. With eyes to­
ward the bad weather ahead when 
most people will remain indoors, 
Miss Lawton, Dr. Dorian, and Mr. 
Pearson, all of the Music Depart­
ment, have decided to introduce this 
new schedule.
The programs expected to be 
given every day from 12 to 1 will in­
clude not only recordings but also 
performances. given by the faculty 
and students of the Music Depart­
ment.
TURN OFTEN 
TO YOUR BANK FOR THE 
COUNSEL OF EXPERIENCE
MELLON 
NATIONAL, BANK
MEMIIR FSDKRAt. DEPOSIT 
INSURANCE CORPORATION
Whoa, Pegasus . . . carry us 
back . . . five years . . . October 
26, 1938 . . . everybody is upset 
. . . for three quaters we battled 
the Irish . . . we held the magain 
and again . . . then in the last 
quarter the referee makes a mistake 
and Notre Dame makes a touch­
down, the extra kick . . . and 
wins 7-0 . . . We were on our own 
46 yard line when referee Gettchel 
told Tartan quarteback Friedlander 
that it was third down . . . the ball 
was carried for a small gain . . . 
we were all set for a fourth down 
punt . . . when the referee an­
nounced that he had made a mis­
take and that we just had played 
our fourth down . . . Needless to 
say the Irish took this big chance, 
and after a few plays made the only 
touchdown of the game ... We 
tried to come back, but it was too 
late, and we had lost our first game 
. . . makes you kinda mad . . .
October 26, 1838 . . . Today is 
the big day for Carnegie aesthetic- 
ists . . . the student body will vote 
for its ruler for the next few 
months .
ASTP Men Get Furlough 
First Week In November
After twelve weeks of a regi­
mented program of study and train­
ing, the ASTP men here at Carnegie 
will have a furlough from school 
work from October 30 to November 
8, when classes will begin anew. 
Freshmen on the quarter plan will 
also take their week’s vacation at 
the same time as the ASTP. Fresh­
men who are taking the ASTP pro­
gram may soon switch over to the 
civilian program, with three four- 
month semesters per year. A fac­
ulty committee is now deciding on 
the freshmen program question, and 
news should be forthcoming soon. It 
is fairly certain, however, that the 
freshmen under the ASTP program 
will continue for at least three se­
mesters.
Continued from page 1 
its membership today approximates 
some 5,600 students from colleges 
throughout the United States.
Last year Alpha Epsilon Phi re­
ceived nation-wide recognition in 
fulfillment of the first stage of its 
National War project with the pre­
sentation of a complete ambulance 
unit to the Red Cross. This am­
bulance, the first presented by a 
collegiate organization, is now serv­
ing our armed forces overseas. 
Funds for a second ambulance proj­
ect are now being raised from soror­
ity membership funds.
This year marks the initial ven* 
ture of Carnegie campus sororities 
into the realm of national sorori­
ties. Until this time, they have al­
ways functioned as local groups 
having no outside affiliations.
Mu Alpha Gamma was organized 
in 1940 as the first Tech sorority to 
attempt a combined Margaret Mor­
rison and School of Fine Arts mem­
bership. The sorority has function­
ed so successfully since its founding 
that other campus groups are con­
sidering a similar amalgamation.
The following twenty-one girls 
have been pledged to Alpha Nu 
Chapter of Alpha Epsilon Phi: from 
Margaret Morrison Carnegie Col­
lege—Louisa Saul, Janet Chetlin, 
Helena Aronson, Naomi Ellman, 
Ruth Kwall, Ethel Levin, Madlynne 
Robbins, Marjorie Baer, Louise 
Grant; from the School of Fine Arts 
—Adelyne Roth, Geraldine Dia­
mond, Phyllis Fineman, Jeanne 
Rush, Natalie Herrup, Theo Dun- 
kleman, Adele Lipkin, Phyllis Leon, 
Dorothy Schwartz, Gloria Gold­
smith, Lola Schweitzer, and Evelyn 
Fargotstein.
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA’S MOST COM­PLETE SELECTION OF CLASSICAL AND 
POPULAR RECORDS
604 Wood St. Pittsburgh
18 DEGREES... 
AttO 6 IN SPECIAL CHISEL POINT
Whatever course you take, if drawing, 
drafting or tracing are important parts, 
Microtomic Van Dyke pencils with
HI-DENSITY LEAD
will make the going easier, faster. 
Longer wear, smooth-as-silk, even lines, 
extreme opacity without heavy pressure. 
These extra advantages make for better 
work, higher skill.
EBERHARD FABER
JZe* detihlp IN FINE WRITING MATERIALS SINCE lt«9
MEN IN 
SERVICE- 
PROTECT YOUR CASH
Cash is safe from loss or theft when you carry AMERICAN EXPRESS 
TRAVELERS CHEQUES; Your money is always in readily spendable form, 
and if lost or stolen, you receive a prompt refund.
Issued in denominations of $10, $20, $50 and $100. Cost 751 for each 
$100. Minimum cost 40f! for $10 to $50; For sale at banks and Railwa* 
Express Offices.
AMERICAN EXPRESS TRAVELERS CHEQUES
Usfn in to CHtQUt YOUR MUSIC• Station KDKA
Popular Vocal and Orehottral Hitt o fOJO on Your Dial 
MONDAY and WEDNESDAY— 6:13 P.M.

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1943
GET READY FOR 
Intramural Bowling
Keep Fit by 
\ Bowling
University Recreation
On Craig Off Forbes
SPORTS PAGE
Battle-Scarred Team 
Is Not Outfought
Riddled by injuries from previous 
bruising games, the Tartans of Car­
negie Tech took it on the chin 
again Saturday afternoon. Fighting 
valiantly, but badly out-manned, 
the Techites bowed to the West Vir­
ginia Mountaineers to the tune of 
32-0.
The powerhouse tactics of West 
Virginia got off to an early start 
when Vockels, Tech halfback, fum­
bled the opening kick-off and Ken 
Fryer recovered for the Mountain­
eers on the Tech 29-yard stripe. The 
Tech line held fast, however, for 
three downs until on the fourth 
down Fryer shot a completed pass 
to put them on the Tech ten. Again 
Fryer lugged the ball to the goal, 
barely making it, Lucente blasted 
the Tech forward wall for the 
touchdown to put West Virginia 
ahead 6-0. An intercepted pass late 
in the first quarter put the Moun­
taineers in position to score again, 
Lucente going over on fourth 
down.
In the third period the Mountain­
eers really got rolling, marching 62 
yards on long runs by Helinski to 
score again. The process was re­
peated in the early minutes of the 
fourth quarter to give West Vir­
ginia a four-touchdown lead. Then 
iii the waning minutes of the game, 
West Virginia capitalized on a Tech 
fumble, marched 23 yards for the 
touchdown, and added the extra 
point to put the final score at 32-0.
The statistics of the game show 
clearly West Virginia’s speriority. 
They had the edge over Tech by 
rolling up 18 first downs to Tech’s
3 for 320 yards gained to Tech’s 62. 
Jim Wilson, swift West Virginia 
halfback, lived up to expectations 
by showing some fine, hard-running 
football. It was very obvious that 
West Virginia set out from the be­
ginning to slaughter Tech if they 
could, refusing to ease up even in 
the last minutes.
The lads from the Skibo Land left 
their mark, however, when at least 
four mountaineers had to be carried 
off the field. Outpowered as they 
were, they never stopped driving, 
and had the breaks gone the other 
way, the story may have been far 
different. For some reason Carnegie 
Tech has an uncanny ability to give 
ball games away in the first quarter, 
and this game was no exception. 
The boys lived up to the Tech tra­
dition in great style. As up at Case 
and Rochester in previous games, 
they held off thrust after thrust only 
to give points to opponents through 
fumbles or intercepted passes.
With half the first team unable to 
play, it was a wonder the score was
Faculty Predicts 
Pitt-Tech Fmht
By John Krummell
What will be the outcome of the 
Pitt game Saturday? Who will win 
the annual blood battle this year? 
Can the scrappy Tartans do it this 
time?
We present here the valued opin­
ions of some of the notables of the 
Tech administration and faculty. 
The first remark of Mr^ Murphy, 
when asked to make a statement to 
the press, was, “Great Scott!” Then 
he went on to say, “If Tech main­
tains its defensive strength and im­
proves offensively, and. provided 
that the regulars are not on the in­
jured list, we have a good chance to 
win.”
Frank W. Moses, acting head of 
the department of physical educa­
tion, made the most optimistic pre­
diction: “Pitt’s all wet! Back in
’38, with a green backfield and in­
experienced men, we were, rated 
just as much chance of beating them 
as now, yet we went ahead to dou­
ble the score on them, 20-10. At the 
time Pitt had gone through two 
seasons unbeaten, while this year’s 
record does not compare. Yes, I be­
lieve that our fighting Tartans will 
again go out there and double the 
score on Pitt!”
Mr. A. E. Risedorph, swimming 
coach and assistant professor of 
physical education, countered with 
a rather sober forecast: “On paper, 
according to the strength of the 
squads, Pitt has the advantage.” ,
Mrs. Yon, Dean of Women, said, 
“After Pitt’s showing against Illi­
nois and Bethany, things don’t look 
so bright for Tech. But Tech’s spirit 
can mean so much in a game that 
I’ll give the Tartan’s an even fight­
ing chance to win.”
Clarence E. Overend, Director of 
Intercollegiate Athletics, observed 
hopefully, “Our chances of winning 
this game are much better than 
would appear from the season’s rec­
ord, because every time our team 
has met a Pitt team they have play­
ed a different, inspired brand of 
football.”
But perhaps the person who 
should know more about our 
chances than anybody else is our 
Tartan coach, Joe “Muggsy” Sklad- 
any. Ominous as his forcast may 
seem, we would be inclined to put 
a good deal of weight in his opinion 
of our Tartan stalwarts’ chances: “I 
don’t see how we have the slightest 
chance to win this game. We are 
playing against a team that out­
weighs us, man for man, by an av­
erage of 20 to 25 pounds. There are 
79 men on the Pitt squad, nearly 
every one of whom is a transfer 
student or subsidized athlete who 
starred In high school football. We 
have 27 boys on our team, most of 
whom have had practically no pre­
vious football experience or are 
just out of high school. In addition, 
the majority of our regulars are so 
battered up that on most ball clubs 
they would not even be permitted 
to play. All the fight and spirit in 
the world cannot make up for dis­
advantages like that.”
Miss Betty Brown Lee, curvacious drum-major star of the Ice-Capades, 
1944, will lead the Kiltie Band at the half for the Pitt-Tech home-coming 
game on Saturday, October 30. Betty, a former drum-major at the Univer­
sity of Southern California, was a feature of the same game last year.
as low as it was. Lindberg, Hurst, 
and Wahrenberg were forced to 
watch the game from the sidelines, 
while Baklarz and McIntosh were 
playing despite their injuries. Fully 
half of Tech’s first team was not 
physically fit for the game, but be­
cause of the lack of suitable sub­
stitutes they did as best they could. 
The tackles, Mikus and Yaru, espe­
cially, absorbed a terrific beating as 
the large and powerful West Vir­
ginia backs repeatedly blasted them 
on their heels; yet they did not ex­
pect and got no rest through sub­
stitutions.
“Jarring” Sammy Duff’s play was 
remarkable in that in his first real 
chance to show what he had to 
offer, he came through in great style 
by playing vicious ball. Sammy en­
tered the ball game when Bill 
Steele, small but rugged regular 
center, was carried off the field with 
a pair of badly injured ankles. Gail 
Litton, senior end, provided a real 
thrill when he took the ball on an 
intended punt in his own end zone 
and raced upfield 20 yards. Had 
there been better blocking, he 
would have gone the length of the 
field tor a touchdown. Gail, too, was 
playing brilliantly under the handi­
cap of a badly bruised knee.
Despite the final score, Tech 
showed all the fight and spirit of 
any previous Tech team. When fel­
lows that shouldn’t be playing at all 
because of injuries can don the 
moleskins and cleats and go out to 
really trade punches with opponents
that are 20-30 pounds heavier, you 
can be sure they are made of the 
stuff that is commonly known as 
“guts.”
Sports In Khaki
By Mike Gingold
My Correspondent writes:
Dear Boss:
I seed a fine game t’other day out 
on the cut. It wuz a battle fur real 
as the team dey call Kompany B 
played a gang up da street dat uses 
da monika of Kompany A.
In da foist quarter B used speed 
like a pre-war college freshman 
uses a Ford, an’ when I blinked my 
eyes twice dere dey wuz on da 8 
yd. line. O’ course A didn’t like 
dat, so rite away dey catched da 
ball when dey wuzn’t supposed to. 
Dey kept on and suddenly a guk 
wid’ a big pocket watch hollers, 
“Foist Quarter.”
In de second period, Hayseed Hill 
scored on a pass from a Chicago 
cowboy named Joyce. Nothing 
much happened in the third quarter.
The last period and the guys start 
throwin’ balls from everyplace. 
Joyce throws anudder pig to his 
bosom buddie, Hill, who makes an­
udder 6 points. Cowboy throws 
anudder to Hill and the score 
changes again — dis time toiteen- 
nothin’. Da game ends toiteen- 
nothin’.
Your ace corespondent,
C. S. Crane.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1943THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
[ntramural Football 
Ends-Kappa Sig Wins
The intramural football season 
closed last Friday. Kappa Sigma 
was declared the champion of the 
league! The Tau Delts, a power 
during the entire season, crumbled 
in their last game — and the fact 
that Sunny Landerman wasn’t toss­
ing aerials played no small part in 
the debacle. A tie between Tau 
Delts and Citcom for second place 
has yet to be played off, and the Jr. 
Chem. Eng.’s and the BTPi’s are 
scheduled to play each other in or­
der to decide who will be in last 
place.
The Kappa Sigs could well be 
called the team of the year. They 
seemed io become an ominous 
threat to the then high-riding Tau
Delts. Fellows like Reid Byers, A1 
Neelson, Bud, Bud Hathaway, Jack 
Sherman, Ed Smuts, Phil Malen- 
ock, Cy Silling, Dick O’Neill, and 
Andy Cabbal, make a formidable 
array of football talent, and their 
combined efforts enabled them to 
come from behind in the league to 
win.
LEAGUE STANDING 
Team Won Lost Av.
Kappa Sigma ........... 9 1 .900
Tau Delts .................. 8 2 .800
Citcom Clan ............. 8 2 .800
SAE ............................ 7 3 .700
Independents ........... 7 3 .700
Theta Xi ................... 6 4 .600
Delta Upsilon ......... 3 7 .300
Delta Tau Delta* ..2 7 .222
Beta Sigma Rho____ 2 8 .200
Jr. Chem. Eng..............1 8 .111
Beta Theta Pi* ____ 0 8 .000
* One game tied.
. . . dirt colyum . . .
. . . by Aron Beck 
Carry Me Back to West Virginny: Schlernitzauer tried this.
. . . Due to transportation short­
ages the Tech team and its affiliates 
traveled by open truck to the heart 
of the West Virginia hills via songs, 
shivers, and beer . . . One alibi for 
the loss suffered at the hands of the 
mountaineers was the fact that one 
of the backwoods boys’ rooters pa­
raded through the Tech dressing 
room with jug and shotgun (sounds 
like a good alibi) . . . One of the 
cheers developed by Tech attend­
ants at the W. Va. game to spur on 
our losing team goes on as follows:
E to the X, Dy/Dx 
E to the XDy 
Cosine, secent,
Cosine, sine 
3.14159 
Yeah, Tech.
Among the spectators were Mary 
Polis and Benny Laguerela, Jean 
Swaney and Helen Polis with Bill 
Hill and Johnny Dowd (They came 
down in Bill’s jealopy and had a 
very exciting trip) . . . Unexpected 
rooters from Tech were soldiers 
from W. Va.’s ASTP (That didn’t 
help either) . . . Some sort of s@- 
lace after the game was found by 
attending the West Virginia Home­
coming dance— Jo Sunseri and Bill 
King, Tassie Truxall and Jim Ken­
nedy, Ralph Happe and Lois Scor- 
sony, Gean Baber and Whitey Mon­
roe, Ray (Smitty) Smith and Ruth 
................... A1 Gansco wand Toni
(Accord­
ing to them it helped.) To clear up 
Mike Gingold’s mysterious date at 
the Victory Dance, it was the blonde 
and not the camera. She is Virginia 
Hudon, freshie P & D, who, inci­
dentally, is already wearing Mike’s 
Tech key.
Tech Tidbits Very handsome 
Max Oirich is engaged sub rosa to 
the too pretty blonde USO hostess, 
Millie Gordon. . . . Have you heard 
Jim Fulghum’s theme song yet? It’s 
“I Want to Be a T/5 in the ASTP!” 
... Ed Cook, Company D’s little 
Romeo, IS quite a Romeo! ... Is 
there still a spark between Bob 
Davis and Betty Lowe? . . . The 
old Company C is keeping touch 
with Tech through mail to Sorietta 
Silverman, freshie music student 
... We see Freddie Gann with so 
many different girls we can’t decide 
which is THE ONE ... Is it true 
that Marge Madox returned Jack 
Foley’s pin? . . . Gladys Mattsan 
received a diamond ring from 
Chuck Jones last Saturday night. 
Seen at the Theta Xi Halloween 
Party: Bill Kolb and Jean Kelly
. . . Geo. Rahall and Livi Kretecz 
. . . Dan Kahl and Nancy Breamer
United War Fund
Continued from page 1
contribution is made or pledged, 
the student receives two red feath­
ers and a window sticker as a sym­
bol that he has done his part.
Carnegie’s quota this year is 
$6,400. This sounds very large un­
til one remembers that it includes 
both civilian and army students, 
faculty, and administrative staff. 
Each student should contribute at 
least a dollar ($1.00) to help Carne­
gie meet its quota.
The importance of the United 
War Fund this year, more than 
ever, can not be exaggerated. It 
now includes, in addition to the 
eighty-six local agencies formerly 
grouped together as the Community 
Fund, fourteen agencies for our 
fighting allies (Russian, Greek, 
British, etc.), War Relief, and the 
all-important War Prisoner’s Aid, 
United Seamen’s Service, and the 
U. S. O. This grouping together of 
the chief charities necessary for 
the morale of our fighting men, of 
our allies, and of the people at 
home has several distinct advan­
tages The collection and distribu­
tion of money is not haphazard, but 
systematic and thorough. Having 
one large drive instead of a hun­
dred small ones saves enormously 
on campaign expenses. It also saves 
the annoyance to the public of be­
ing asked at every turn to contrib­
ute to something else. In this one 
great campaign are covered activi­
ties of all three great religious 
faiths and of white and Negro 
groups.
Notice
All freshmen engineering students 
who took the experimental tests on 
September 14 are asked to contact Dr. 
Porter in the Bureau of Measurements 
Office, Industries. Appointments to 
discuss the results of the test will be 
made.
Students Offered 
Varied Off-Hour Jobs
The employment office has an­
nounced a variety of part-time jobs, 
both off and on campus, are open 
to interested students. Here is an 
incomplete list:
Off Campus Jobs
Drafting—mechanical design; only 
one needed; National Tube Co.; 
60-65c per hour.
Inventory work at Chrysler Motors 
the last part of October over one 
weekend; many needed; 65c per hr. 
Many needed at the University 
Recreation Bowling Alleys for run­
ning the floor and counter work; 
50c per hour; 6:00-12:00.
Mapping work with Fire Insurance 
Co. on University Place; $50 per 
month; 20 hrs. work.
Experienced driver for resident of 
Schenley Apartments.
Elevator operator at St. Margaret’s 
Hospital; $2.00 plus dinner and 
carfare on Saturdays and Sundays 
from 3:00-9:00.
Christmas work at Railway Mail 
Service; also at Post Office.
Girls: Off Campus Jobs
Sales work at Joseph Horne’s and 
Kaufmann’s; Saturdays and Mon­
days; 40-45c per hour.
Ushers for Buhl Planetarium; aft­
ernoons or evenings; 50c per hour. 
Assistant cashier at the Ruskin 
Apts.
Receptionist for Figure Skating 
Club at Duquesne Gardens; Thurs­
day evening, 6:00-8:00 at $1.50; 
Sunday morning 9:00-1:00 at $3.00. 
Girl to care for children in the 
evenings and week-ends for $1.00-
• $1.50.
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
HA. 01936470 Monitor St.
Seemillers Dairy Store 
and Luncheonette
417 S. CRAIG ST. Just Off Forbes
ARMY MEN
Complete Selection of 
ARMY ACCESSORIES
SHIRTS BELTS TIES 
PANTS SOCKS
Overseas Hats Garrison CapsA. S. T. P. Patches 
At Popular Prices
Leonard’s Men’s Shop
Oakland Cor. Forbes & Atwood St. 
5 minutes walk from school
Let's go to
ISALY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM COINES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
Have a “Coke” = Come in and sit down
•.. from St.John’s to Schenectady
Friendly greetings like the Come in and sit down of the 
Newfoundland fisherman and the Have a “Coke" of the American 
soldier are understood everywhere. Around the world Coca-Cola 
stands for the pause that refreshes—the universal high-sign 
between strangers.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY #Y 
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, PITTSBURGH, PA.
**Coke”= Coca Cola
It’s natural for popular names I to acquire friendly abbrevia- 
1 dons. That’s why you hear Coca-Cola called “Coke”.

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1943
PeMxmalUieA . . .
This year’s first “personality” is 
Nancy E. Lewis . . . This glamor­
ous, blonde young lady disproves 
the saying “beautiful but dumb” 
. . . She has the distinction of hav­
ing been the only girl named as 
President of the College of Fine 
Arts and also the only girl to have 
held the office of Editor of The Car­
negie Plaid . . . An active worker 
in student council affairs and cam­
pus activities she received her 
fourth Insignia Award at last year’s 
banquet ... To the sorrow of all 
her friends, the boys in particular, 
she recently resigned as the Editor 
of the Plaid and has accepted a gov­
ernment position in Panama . . . 
While she is one of the most popu­
lar gals on the campus she always 
has time to lend a helping hand to 
newcomers . . . Always ready to 
“do something” — bowl, dance, bi­
cycle ride—doesn’t matter what it
(The dTarneijU jplaid
Social Program for Semester 
Includes Xmas Dinner Dance
is as long as she’s on the go . . . 
We hear, though, that she just 
adores picnics, because she loves 
the accompanying activity, EAT­
ING! . . . We know she will be 
greatly missed when she leaves 
to assume her duties in Panama, for 
we don’t know anyone who has 
more friends . . . Our good wishes 
go with you, Nancy, in this new 
undertaking ... It entails a great 
deal of sacrifice and courage to give 
up a fine, established job to take 
one so far away, but it’s just that 
kind of cooperation that will help 
to win this war and bring peace.
Supplements on the Shelf
The supplements to the “Carnegie 
Handbook” are out and can be se­
cured at the office of the Registrar 
for Evening School, which is locat­
ed in Room 255-C, Industries Hall. 
If you haven’t received your copy 
yet, be sure to get it now.
Your handbook will not be com­
plete unless yo uhave this supple­
ment which contains all of the in­
formation that is necessary to bring 
your handbook up to date. It con­
tains not only the academic calen­
dar and forthcoming social activi­
ties, but also a list of student of­
ficers and other data that you 
should have.
Evening Students, Why 
Waste Your Idle Hours
Do you have to wait around sev­
eral hours in the evening for your 
ride home or for your buddy to 
show up? Why not use this time to 
get some of your home-work done? 
Oh! There is no place where you 
can really spread out and get to 
work? That’s where you are mis­
taken. Room 217 on the second 
floor of Industries Hal lis ready and 
available at all times to be your 
study Room. Let’s utilize this Study 
Room. Let’s utilize this Study 
Room to your best advantage since 
by studying here at school you can 
put more time into your homelife 
or some other subject that is really 
giving you trouble. Don’t forget, 
the place is Room 217, Industries 
Hall.
Zditvi Cditi
It was with both sorrow and 
happiness that I read in a back is­
sue of the Carnegie Tartan of the 
death of George Ladd, Carnegie In­
stitute of Technology trustee—sorry 
because he was a long time trustee 
and happy because of one of the 
provisions of his will. It revealed 
the establishment of a foundation 
whose principal purpose will be the 
securement for Sarnegie Tech of a 
faculty equal, if not superior, to that 
of other regular scientific schools.
As a recent graduate and now as 
a post-graduate student, I am well 
aware of the trend of the faculty 
situation here at Tech. Certainly 
this war has caused crucial man­
power shortages in the regular fac­
ulty, which resulted in new addi­
tions.
There has been in the past few 
years some dissention among eve­
ning students on the caliber of in­
structing that has been dealt them.
So far this year, there has been one 
mild uprising with others in pros­
pect. Certainly something has to 
be done and should be done in order 
to prevent any general out-break 
that might lower the standards for 
which Carnegie Tech is known 
throughout the world. *
Listed as one of the greatest en­
gineering schools in the country, it 
can only remain so by the caliber 
of faculty that it maintains. And 
so the George Ladd will, in my es­
timation, comes at a crucial time to 
solve one of the greatest problems 
that has ever come to the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology.
Student Symphony 
Tickets Go on Sale
At 9:00 a. m. on Saturday, Octo­
ber 30, student subscriptions for the 
1943-44 season of the Pittsburgh 
Symphony Orchestra will go on sale 
at the Syria Mosque. Concerts are 
held on Friday eveings and Sun­
day afternoons. The cost for the 
series of sixteen concerts is $4.00 
plus tax.
To get the special rate, present 
your identification card to Miss Mil­
dred Lawton, Room 153, College of 
Fine Arts. Students can buy two 
season subscriptions at the special 
rate upon presentation of this card 
at the Syria Mosque box office.
HELP WANTED! (all papers 
have these ads—the shortage due 
to the war, you know): Who will 
volunteer to give that debonair 
gentleman of Intro.Psychology a 
demonstration of “association.” 
Seems as tho’ Elmer needs proof of 
this theory . . . We’re looking for 
a shorthand tutor for Marie Pur­
chase—t’other night she cooked up 
a collection letter for dinner and 
that’s mighty bad on the digestive 
system . . . Who was the soldier to 
the rescue when Anne Pow acci­
dently (?) turned her ankle on the 
way to class? Give! Anne, we saw 
you.
Harvey Johnson has been meas­
ured for a khaki zoot suit comes the 
middle of November — hopes to 
make “Blackout Peggy” the hap­
piest gal this side of the hospital on 
a day not too far away—funny, tho’, 
Harvey is bragging about it, but if 
I recall correctly not the slightest 
mention was made by the prospec­
tive bride—such modesty, Peg!
Bab Bassett was back in town 
sporting Corporal’s chevrons — of 
particular interest is the fact that 
A1 spent hours building him up to 
a blind date—such adjectives—and 
low and behold the “blind” turns 
out to be Bob’s bestest friend of 
days gone by—such a sweet recon­
ciliation—there I go drippin’ senti­
ment again . . . Still wondering 
WHY the “Victory Dance” at the 
Schenley — could swear the game 
ended nuttin’—nuttin’ . . . Don’t 
miss the Art Exhibit and take spec­
ial notice of “White Clouds”— if a 
certain fellow wasn’t so tight he’d 
save his lunch money and buy it 
for the mercenary gal around here 
(and with that description ,to print 
her name would be superfluous— 
di dthat come out of me?—shore 
did). Can’t find words to describe 
the success the Ed. is having with 
recruits—as an old hand at it my­
self, will stick my chin out to say 
he’s hiding some secret weapon— 
methinks he’s dating the girls—but 
then, what’s he doing for the fel­
lows. Could be he’s another “Miss 
Pittsburgh” too . . .
Dance 
Where It’s Young and Gay 
EVERY SATURDAY NIGHT
on the
CONTINENTAL 
TERRACE
85 cents per person
Pins Tax
Plans are under way to make this 
one of the biggest social years in 
evening school history. The season 
started off with the Election Party, 
which was held on October 9 at the 
Margaret Morrison Recreation Hall. 
The next affair is the All-College 
Party on November 6. The place 
where this party will be held has 
not been decided at this time but 
will be announced in the next is­
sue of the PLAID and on the bulle­
tin boards.
On November 27 the Evening Stu­
dent Council is presenting the 
Thanksgiving Recess Dance, which 
is scheduled for the Exhibition Hall 
in the College of Fine Arts.
But this isn’t all! George Riffle, 
social chairman, has announced that 
plans are being made for the af­
fair of the year—the first annual 
dinner-dance, which will be given 
during the Christmas season. This 
event promises to outdo even the 
Annual Engineers’ Banquet which 
has always been well attended and 
highly successful.
Since this social is for evening 
students, you are all asked to con­
tribute suggestions for this dinner- 
dance. Drop a note in the inter­
school mail to the PLAID, Box 353, 
Carnegie Institute of Technology.
The Carnegie Plaid
Editor
Edward A. Macha 
News Editor 
Joseph M. Rymar 
Photographer 
George Riffle
Page edited by Evening School Students of Car­negie, Institute of Technology. All views or opin­ions epressed in editorial column are not neces­sarily endorsed by the Editorial Board of the Day School staff.
Staff
Charles Colyer Mary DeMaria Albert C. Flanders Betty M. Gorman 
John Hundertmark William E. Kuskie Joseph E. Luneher
S. W. Marclnizyn Ruth McGraw 
William McKelvey Arlene McMurray Caroline Noll Dorothy Papa 
Peggy Wilhelm
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to RentTYPEWRITERS
lir
ALL
MAKES
$3.00 per
i Month
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
