“CARNEGIE
TARTAN
Judges Pick Top Ensembles Of Greek Sing Competition
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 55 — NUMBER 20 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 20, 1963
Skibo Lobby Sports
— Photo by Aron Collons
Workmen install Skibo stained glass window designe 
U by Arnold Banks.
Photo by Aron Collons
Stained Glass Panel
Probablly everyone on the Tech 
£ campus has noticed the new 
stained glass window in Skibo. 
It was designed by Arnold Banks 
of the Graphic Arts Department. 
Mr. Beeman, of Painting and De­
sign, executed the window, using 
the colors of the Carnegie Tartan 
and the school symbols. He uti­
lized the fused glass process, in 
which the colored glass is melted 
together in a sheet of white glass. 
^ When interviewed, Mr. Beeman,
James Reston 
Visits Campus 
For 2 Lectures
James Reston, one of the coun­
try’s outstanding syndicated po­
litical columnists, will be on the 
^ Carnegie Tech campus, Monday 
and Tuesday, April 1 and 2, to de­
liver two lectures under the gen­
eral heading of “President Ken­
nedy’s Dilemmas."
Mr. Reston, chief Washington 
correspondent for the New York 
Times, is coming to Carnegie Tech 
as the Maurice Falk Lecturer. 
Both lectures will be given in the 
ballroom in Skibo, and all Car­
negie Tech students and faculty ¿1 are invited to attend.
— Photo by Aron Collons
who did the windows of the 
Pittsburgh Hilton, said that due 
to the difficulty of the process in­
volved there are no plans for ad­
ditional stained glass windows for 
the campus.
Air Your Gripe 
At Congress 
Meetings
Interested in having a say in 
the affairs of C.I.T? Interested 
in knowing what is happening on 
campus and why? Student Con­
gress meetings are open to all who 
wish to attend. Though observers 
do not have a vote, each is en­
couraged to question policy and 
express opinions on matters 
brought before student govern­
ment. If one wishes to take a 
more active part in the activities 
of Congress, there are many com­
mittee positions for which any 
student is eligible. If you are dis­
satisfied with something that it 
is Student Congress’ power to 
remedy, come and express your 
opinions. The next meeting will 
be held on Wednesday, March 21, 
at 4:30 in Wherett Room, Skibo. 
All are encouraged to attend!
* * *
Members of nine fraternities 
and seven sororities on campus 
eyed Greek Sing trophies deco­
rating the stage of the Carnegie 
Music Hall last Friday night. 
After long weeks of preparation, 
the groups were anxious to see 
how their efforts would pay off. 
But the Greeks had to wait until 
Saturday at 11 p.m. to hear the 
outcome of the competition. Kappa 
Kappa Gamma and Sigmu Nu re­
ceived the first place cups. Second 
places went to Delta Delta Delta 
and Tau Delta Phi, and Delta 
Gamma and Beta Theta Pi took 
thirds.
Kappa Kappa Gamma, led by 
Diana Dayton, sang “He, Watch­
ing Over Israel,” and “Ah, Si Mon 
Moine Voulait Danser.” Sigma Nu, 
under the direction of John Mac 
Gregor sang “Oh What Delight,” 
and “Oh Sing and Be Joyful.” 
Second place Delta Delta Delta, 
led by Toni Sams, sang “Reiter- 
lied” and “The Silver Swan"; Tau 
Delta Phi, led by Neal Huguley, 
presented “O Filii et Filiae,” and 
“Ride the Chariot.” Delta Gamma, 
led by Do^iie Gantos, sang “Ora 
Pro Nobis” and “St. Gregory’s 
Day,” and Beta Theta Pi, led by 
John Merrifleld, sang “The Crea­
tion,” and “I Hear a Voice A- 
Prayin’.”
Not in competition but present-1 
ing songs wrere the combined i 
choruses of two campus music 
honoraries. Phi Mu Alpha Sin- 
fonia and Sigma Alpha Iota join­
ed to sing “Vocalise,” and “Ital­
ian Salad.” Their director was 
James Stivanson.
Seven judges rated the groups 
on such qualities as musical diffi­
culty of songs presented, inter­
pretation, and direction. Judges 
were: Mr. Paul Koch, Mr. John R. i 
Lively, Mr. Regis Shallev, Miss 
Mary K. Sneary, Mr. Franklin T. 
Watkins. Mr. Herbert Wilson, and 
Mr. Samuel Yahres.
Other Awards Given 
At the dance, Stu Silverstone, 
administrative vice president of 
Council of Fraternity Presidents,! 
and Mary Ann Gruen of Panhel- 
lenic Council, co-chairmen of the 
weekend, also gave recognition to 
winners of other Greek awards, j 
Assistant chairmen of the affair 
were Jack Turk and Renee Blow­
ers. John Bertucci was commend­
ed for his work as president of 
CFP. Sigma Nu won the fraternity 
scholarship award, and Beta 
Theta Pi took the pledge scholar­
ship honors. Following the pre­
sentations Kappa Kappa Gamma
* * *
and Sigma Nu sang their winning 
selections.
Weekend Entertainment 
The Greek Sing and Swing 
committee planned several func­
tions to highlight the weekend. 
Saturday afternoon couples heard 
Harold Betters and Liz Seneff and 
the Midnight Riders present a 
concert in the ballroom at Skibo. 
Following the concert, Alpha Tau 
Omega, Beta Sigma Rho, and 
Delta Upsilon opened their houses 
for parties. Music for Greek 
Swing was provided by G. Mann­
ing and his orchestra.
(Pictures on Page 8)
Parker Beware
The Pittsburgh Police Depart« 
ment is severely penalizing those 
who violate the parkins regular 
tions in the Schenley Park area. 
In the past all violators have bee* 
tagged. This has proved to be in­
effective; therefore, in the futura 
all vehicles with Pennsylvania 
license plates will be towed 
away immediately. This anounce- 
ment appears in the Tartan in the 
interest of Tech students and 
faculty.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2 — CARNEGIE TECH — Wednesday, March 20, 1963
v>
Miller Presents i . - • o* • 1 • i oInterest 111iMngmg Madrigals !Second Address ° ° &
For Executives Join Glasser March 26 in Skibo
Mr. Marvin J. Miller, assistant 
to the president of the United 
Steelworkers of America, will be 
the second of several prominent 
executives to address the par­
ticipants of the Program for Ex­
ecutives.
Mr. Miller will talk to the 
group, Wednesday March 20, on 
“Implications of the Kaiser Set­
tlement” .following a 6:30 p.m 
banquet at the Webster Hall Ho­
tel. He was one of the union 
representatives in the negotiations 
of that revolutionary settlement 
and is serving as one of the three 
union representatives on the trip­
artite USW-Kaiser Steel Corpora­
tion Long Range Committee.
Mr. Miller attended the Univer­
sity of Miami, Oxford, Ohio, and 
New York University, receiving 
his B.S. degree in economics and 
statistics from the latter. He has 
served federal agencies including 
the U.S. Conciliation Service and 
National War Lab or Board, and 
the National Wage Stabilization 
Board. Prior to his appointment 
as assistant to the president, Mr. 
Miller served as director of re­
search for the USW for ten years.
Those on campus who are interested In singing madrigals 
and playing recorders will have a chance to meet each other 
within the very near future. Following up a successful ex­
periment which was conducted along these lines last year, 
Howard Glasser, faculty advisor for the Ceilidh, has an­
nounced plans to organize a madrigal group and recorder
?concert among C.I.T. students. 
The Ceilidh (pronouncedJernstedt 
Receives A ward
Saiidulli Chosen 
Orientation Head
Joseph G. Sandulli is the newly 
appointed Chairman of the Fresh­
man Orientation Committee for 
the coming school year. He is a 
sophomore Chemical Engineer, 
with a high honor average. Joe is 
secretary of PiKA, a member of 
the campus chest and Rules Com­
mittee of Student Congress. His 
hobbies include skiing and play­
ing the guitar, and he is also an 
active participant in intramural 
soccer, swimming, and track.
George C. Jernstedt, a senior in 
the electrical engineering depart­
ment has been named a Danforth 
Graduate Fellow.
Danforth Graduate Fellolwships 
are awarded to college seniors 
with outstanding promise as fu­
ture teachers. Mr. Jernstedt was 
one of 104 students selected from 
the 1265 candidates nominated by 
their college on the basis of in­
tellectual promise, personality 
congenial to the classroom, in­
tegrity, genuins interest in re­
ligion, and high potential for ef­
fective college teaching. Danforth 
Fellowships provide up to four 
years of graduate study with an 
annual maximum stipend of $1500 
for a single man and $2000 for a 
married man plus tuition and fees.
Mr. Jernstedt is managing edi­
tor of the Technical, and a mem­
ber of Beta Theta Pi, Tau Beta 
Pi, Phi Kappa, and Pi Delta Epsi­
lon. He is a graduate of Edge- 
wood High School, Pittsburgh.
Classified Ads
Xobrthronk) is not, Glasser said, 
dedicated to folk music alone, 
even though that is it?; primary 
function. The real concern of this 
group is homemade music of any 
kind. Proof of that is the occa­
sional appearance of music stands 
at the weekly gathering, and of 
written pieces for lute and other 
esoteric instruments. Music from 
the courts of Elizabeth and James 
is, Glaser thinks, as valuable as 
that of Buell Kazee.
Those who wish to sing or play 
in such groups should meet with 
Glasser in Room 40, Skibo on 
Tuesday 26th at 7:30 p.m. Those 
who are interested but can’t come 
at that time should get in touch 
with Glasser at the Friday night 
Ceilidh, where he is always pres­
ent when his car starts.
-Script éltli
PROFESSIONAL TYPING - HA. 1-1456. 
On electric typewriters. reasonable 
rates. Themes, Theses, Manuscripts, 
Term Papers, Applications, etc. Spel­
ling errors corrected.
DANCE MUSIC — The Leo Alman 
Combo. HAzel 1-2083. Evenings.
TRI-STATE PREMIERE
Thursday, March 21st — 8:30 P.M.
• CHOICE SEATS AVAILABLE FOR OPENING NIGHT •
METRO G0LDWYN MAYER
V PRESENTHOW THEWEST WAS WON
TECHNICOLOR*
MAT. *2 00 orné J 1.50, SAT./SUN./
HOI Cat HO ICOat quke rscoe H-O lbHblsbi HbngH ngIWt, $2J0 «*» %\73i m.lingOmpyuynY», HtStHVtU»275 ~d $2.00. Prie« hew. T—m. BOX OFFICE OR BY MAIL 
CAR ANNEGI ASIT UOEFH LY Owit Sw hhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhMAIL Oft OC K COWON —
?AVA»liTO? (Wareer Theatre) I
I.»*»». .....-MTIWtWI (§» -------«----------•_ ......I I... *1...........I.«..— -M «___ *m tmn* fm % ¦ ¦ . #
omTr Lit Sw h
WARNER
’’t NENsj ObIra Sfjr cca SOr 
SjATI ’nLi’..u
J=n ::R Li22, PA. ¦. 
=1:
cripi L^ncjraumg.
\ [Positive
For Slide Rules 
35c — $1
Inquire
C.I.T. Bookstore cashier
Jag Bugges
Any Group interested in enter­
ing a “Jag Buggy in “Jag” Trophy 
Competition for Spring Carnival 
Please contact Blaine Cliver 
(Chairman). Entry fee $5.00.
Judo Club
The Tech Judo Club will have 
a general meeting of all students 
desirious of learning our fine arts.
Now that we have been recog­
nized as an official activity on 
campus, the purpose of this meet­
ing will be to set up a general 
schedule and to welcome all in­
terested students.
The meeting is to be held in
Skibo today (Wed.) at 4:30 p.m. 
Please check any bulletin board 
or the Information Desk in Skibo 
for the exact room number.
Madame Butterfly
Tickets for the opera “Madam 
Butterfly” are now on sale in the 
Office of Dean Rice, College of 
Fine Arts. Student tickets for the 
Thursday, March 28 performance 
are $1.50; for the Saturday, March 
30 performance, $1.95 and $2.10.
A. H. E. A.
The CIT Chapter of A.H.E.A.C 
will meet today, Wednesday, 
March 20, 1963 at 3:30 p.m. in 
Breed Hall. Miss Marjor Amich 
will discuss groming as it affects 
personal appearance. All students 
are invited to attend.
bg NAd oOFI
1960 Volkswagen, perfect con­
dition, sun roof, snow tires, 
other extras.
Call Owner — 421-4932
rrrrye:rrrrPZ:MB!rrrr 
fBiprrrfBoprrrBZyrrrPZy 
pZshrrrjZ:prrrB!aprrr 
rrrchinrrrBifPrrrpZBBrrr 
rrrrZnrrrpZff pZffrrr 
paZs!
take a break...go better with Coke
CoPPB!d Znd!r Ph! aZPhoriPe of sh! GocaiGoBa Go:pane Me: quaker state coca-cola bottling company
Pirrsburgh, Pennsyqvania
Want a free checking account!
OP mnion TaPionaB Canka eoZ can hav! a Pr!! p!rsonaB ch!ckiny accoZnPr 
JZsP k!!p a $cYY MaBanc!r sh!r!'s no s!rvic! chary!r To :ainP!nanc! 
chary!r To chary! for n!w ch!cksr To chary! for d!posiPsr Sae eoZr 
MiBBs Ph! !ase waer oPop En aP eoZr n!ar!sP mnion TaPionaB Cank offic! 
and op!n eoZr fr!! p!rsonaB ch!ckiny accoZnPr Go:! En Podaea f
THE UNION NATIONAL BANK OF PITTSBURGH
wOET ANNEGI: NAmdsj ObITmI Os gAAU osdIIs 
AND: 4612 FORBES AVENUE, OAKLAND
MtMBCR: FtDCAAl IKSCRVf SVSTIM rtOCNAt OtTOSIT IMSUMNCC C0W>0*ATI0N

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, March ?#. 196S — CARNEGIE TECH — Paff« S
Harvard-Radcliffe SymphonyAnnual Search For “UMOC "Begins ^ CmceH on ' j3
AH Groups Urged To Compete
Spring again! The crocus bloom. 
Campus queens ascend t h e i r j 
thrones. But there in the midst 
of all this splendor, he lurks— 
UMOC—Ugliest Man on Campus, j 
The “Ugliest Man on Campus” 
contest, a unique service project 
of Alpha Phi Omego at Tech and ; 
on campuses all over the country, 
’yises funds for Campus Chests.
All organizations are urged to 
enter a candidate as long as he 
is male, a Tech student, and the 
ugliest critter ever. It’s easy. Find 
a candidate: your roommate, your 
classmate, how about you? No 
teachers, however; students can’t 
stand the competition.
This year, for the first time, 
sororities have been invited and 
.pave their chance to find their 
favorite ugly man and enter him.
Any group may form on a tem­
porary basis for the purpose of 
proposing and supporting a can- 
didiate.
Voting will be in Skibo and 
Hunt Library on Monday and 
Tuesday, April 29 and 30, and on 
Wednesday and Thursday, May 1, 
and 2. Voting is definitely un­
limited at a penny a vote. Col­
lect those coppers, stuff the bal­
lot baxes, and support your man. 
Also the voter who believes that 
ugliness must be shared can split 
his votes and stuff as many bal­
lot boxes as he desires.
Alpha Phi Omega will have 
the ugly pictures taken on Sat­
urday. April 6. This will give all 
permanent organizations on cam­
pus and all those independent 
groups formed only for the pur­
pose of running a candidate an 
equal opportunity to enter.
The winner will be announced 
at the Spring Carnival Dance. 
Besides the distinction of being 
U.M.O.C., he will receive the 
coveted “Ugly Mug”—as ugly as 
the winner himself if that is pos­
sible. The mug this year is an 
original design 'of the Sculpter 
Department and holds three full 
liters of any favorite ugly potion 
—enough to keep UMOC ugly all 
year. His name and the winning 
organization's name will both ap­
pear on the mug.
All groups ar* asxed to enter 
now. Send the name of your or- 
i ganization and the name of your 
candidate to :UMOC, Box 282, 
Campus Mail, by March 30. Then 
i get ready to help make and en­
joy the fun, and enthusiasm of 
! the ugliest UMOC ever.
The Harvard-Radcliffe Sym- j 
phony Orchestra, under the direc- ! 
tion of Herb Swoboda, will give j 
a concert for the benefit of the 
Scholarship Fund of the Western 
Pennsylvania Harvard Alumni 
Association on Wednesday eve­
ning, April 3, at 8:30 o’clock in 
Carnegie Music Hall.
The Orchestra is the oldest 
symphony in the United States, !
having been founded in 1818, and 
is rated one of the outstanding 
college groups in the country. Its 
present director is the former 
conductor of the Vienna Sym­
phony Orchestra and the soloist of 
the evening is the 21-year-old 
Canadian pianist, Marek Jablon- 
ski.
Student tickets on sale at the 
box office on the night of the
concert.
Skip the sulphur and molasses— 
get a CHEVROLET SUPER SPORT
Chevrolet Super Sports* have a charm that 
soothes your springtime yen for romantic 
adventure as fast as you can slip into a 
bucket seat. (Especially the Impala’s, with 
its adjustable new Comfortilt steering 
wheel*.) Front bucket seats are 
a great start, but Super Sports 
also feature plush all-vinyl in­
teriors, special interior-exterior 
trim in tasteful touches, and a 
veritable feast of goodies we call 
performance options*. Chev­
rolet and Chevy II Super Sports 
invite adventure in convertible 
or coupe form. That same Super
Sport zing applies to the Corvair Monza 
Spyder, very breezy with its air-cooled 150- 
horsepower rear-mounted engine, and 4- 
speed shift*. Ditto for the new Corvette Sting 
Ray, a magnificent thoroughbred among 
pure-blood sports cars with not 
a single sacrifice in comfort. Both 
Spyder and Sting Ray come in 
coupe or convertible styles. All 
Chevrolet Super Sports are like 
spring days—you’ve got to get 
out in them to savor them. So 
catch yourself a passing zephyr 
and waft on down to your 
Chevrolet showroom.
.»*-MTWt( t- §:-Rt LTt-i
On Campos
with
M«§hulraan
(Author of “/ Was a Teen-age Dwarf", “The Many 
Loves of Dobie Gill is”, etc.)
AMONG MY KINFOLK
Mv favorite cousin, Mandolin Glebe, a sweet, unspoiled country 
boy, has just started college. Today I got a letter from him 
which I will reprint here because I know Mandolin’s problem® 
are so much like your own. Mandolin writes:
Dear Mandolin (he thinks my name is Mandolin too),
I see by the college paper that you are writing a column for 
Marlboro Cigarettes. I think Marlboros are jim-dandy cig­
arettes with real nice tobacco and a ginger-peachy filter, and 
I want to tell you why I don’t smoke them.
It all started the very first day I arrived at college. I was 
walking across the campus, swinging my pa|>er valise and sing­
ing traditional airs like Blue Tail Fly and Death and Trans­
figuration, when all of a sudden I ran into this here collegiate- 
lôoking fellow with a monogram on his breast pocket. He asked 
me was I a freshman. I said yes. He asked me did I want to 
be a BMOC and the envy of all the in crowd. I said yes. He 
said the only way to make these keen things happen was to join 
a fraternity. Fortunately he happened to have a pledge card 
with him, so he pricked my thumb and I signed. He didn’t tell 
nie the name of the fraternity or where it is located, but I sup­
pose I’ll find out when I go active.
£âe ¿tintedme tûâ ^ fâiïcfc tâtrfuràr/f
Models shown clockwise: Corvette Sting Ray Convertible, Corvair Monza Spyder 
Convertible, Chevrolet Impala Super Sport. Convertible, Chevy II nova UOf) Super 
Sport Convertible. Center: Soap Box Derby Racer, built by All-American boy*.
NOW SEE WHAT’S NEW AT YOUR CHEVROLET DEALER’S
; ¦ , * :< f . ... ft * ?: i % ¦ >-¦ t. > '• VI ? -a <5 «.i1 * % A & »- *» -• s* fe
Meanwhile this fellowr comes around every week to collect 
the dues, which are $100, plus a $10 fine for missing the weekly 
meeting, plus a $5 assessment to buy a headstone for Spot, the 
late, beloved beagle who was the fraternity mascot.
I have never regretted joining the fraternity, because it is 
my dearest wish to lie a BMOC and the envy of all the in 
crowd, but you can see that it is not cheap. It wouldn’t lie so 
bad if I slept at the frat house, but you must agree that I can’t 
sleep at the house if I don’t know where the house is.
I have rented a room which is not only grotesquely exj>en- 
sive, but it is not at all the kind of room I was looking for. I 
wanted someplace reasonably priced, clean, comfortable, and 
within easy walking distance of classes, the shopping district, 
and San Francisco and New York. What I found was a bedroom 
in the home of a local costermonger which is dingy, expensive, 
and uncomfortable—and I don’t even get to use the l>ed till 
7 a.m. when my landlord goes out to mong his costers.
Well anyhow, I got settled and the next thing I did, naturally, 
was to look for a girl. And I found her. Harriet, her name is, a 
beautiful creature standing just under seven feet high and weigh­
ing 385 pounds. I first spied her leaning against the statue of 
the Founder, dozing lightly. I talked to her for several hours 
without effect. Only when I mentioned dinner did she stir. Her 
milky little eye* opened, she raised a brawny arm, seized my 
nape, and carried me to a chic French restaurant called l.e, 
Clipjoint where she consumed, according to my calculations, 
her own weight in Chateaubriand.
After dinner she lapsed into a torpor from which I could not 
rous£ her, no matter how I tried. I banged my gla." with a 
fork, I pinched her great pendulous jowls, I rubbed the legs of 
my corduroy pants together. But nothing worked, and finally 
I slang her over my shoulder and carried her to the girls dorm, 
slipping several discs in the process.
Fortunately, medical care for students is provided free at the 
college infirmary. All I had to pay for were a few extra.-*, like 
X-rays, anaesthesia, forceps, hemostats, scalpels, catgut, linen, 
towels, amortization, and nurses. They would not. however, 
let me keep the nurses.
So, dear cousin, it is lack of funds, not lack of enthusiasm, 
that is keeping me from Marlboro Cigarettes—dear, good 
Marlboros with their fine blend of choice tobaccos and their 
pure white Selectrate filter and their soft pack and their flip 
top bo,x.
Well, I must close now. My pencil is wore out and I can’t 
afford another. Keep ’em flying.
Yr. cousin Mandolin Glebe« 11m M,« Shulm**
The hearts of the makers of Marlboro go out to poor Man­
dolin—and to poor anyone else who is missing out on our 
fine cigarettes—available in all 59 of these Inited State«,

---------------------------------------------------

r»*e 4 — CARNEGIE TECH — Wednesday, Mareh 20, 1963
This Week in Pittsburgh Liberal Club
Investigates 
Investigation
THURSDAY, MARCH 21
Film Arts — “The Storm Within” (France 1948) Jean 
Cocteau Shown at 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 Porter Hall 100
FRIDAY, MARCH 22 and SUNDAY, MARCH 24
Pittsburgh Symphony — Herbert Grossman, Conductor;
Isaac Stern, violin.
Liadoff — “Legend of Kikimora; Brahms-Violin
Concerta; Mendelssohn — Symphony Nofl 5 in D 
minor; “Reformation”; Strauss-Salome’s Dance of the 
Seven Veils.
CONTINUING EVENTS
Stanley—“Days of Wine and Roses” Jack Lemmon 
Warner — “How the West Was Won” Cinerama 
Nixon — “Mutiny on the Bounty” Marlon Brando 
Shadyside — “Two for the Seesaw” Robert Mitchum, 
Shirley MacLain 
Squirrel Hill — “David and Lisa”
Playhouse — “Fifth Season” Hamlet Street 
“Anna Klieber” Theatre Upstairs 
“Taming of the Shrew” Craft Avenue Theatre
THIS WEEK ON CAMPUS
Exhibitions
Paintings by Russell Twiggs, Hewlett Gallery 
Through March 22 
Calligraphy by Fine Arts Students, Porter Garnett 
Gallery in A.H. Through March 26 
Music
March 21 — Professor Nicholai Lopatnikoff will 
discuss two of his recent works, “Fantasia 
Concertainte” and “Festival Overture” at the 
Music Department Convocation to be held at 
12:30 p.m. in the Exhibitian Hall, Fine Arts. The 
works will be heard on tape recording. Students 
and faculty are invited to attend.
March 23 — Composer’s Forum: Music of Virgil 
Thomson. 3:00 p.m. Carnegie Music Hall;
Antiqua Players Concert Renaissance and Baroque 
Music — Skibo Ballroom — 8:30 p.m.
Student tickets — $1.00
I.M. Plans 
Two Meetings
YWCA Sponsors 
Seminar in Asia 
For College Women
. . Communist - infiltrated
peace groups are really not work­
ing for peace; . . . fundamental 
Communist doctrine aims at de­
struction and military defeat of all 
capitalist societies; . . . members 
of the American Communist Party 
are directed to organize such 
groups in order to weaken the 
unity of the West.” So reads part 
of a report written by Vicki Berg- 
holz, of the Pittsburgh Women 
Strike for Peace, on the House 
Un-American Activities Commit­
tee’s investigation of the Women 
Strike for Peace held in Washing­
ton, D.C., last December. Mrs. 
Bergholz attended the third day of 
hearings — the day that Dagmar 
Wilson was called. Mrs. Wilson is 
credited with starting the WSP. 
She was summoned as a “Friend­
ly witness” (one who is not accus­
ed of being a Communist but who 
HUAC hopes will give names of 
Communists).
This investigation of the grass­
roots movement, WSP, approach­
ed the ludicrous. Mrs. Wilson re­
ceived a standing ovation and was 
presented with a bouquet of 
flowers when she went to the 
stand. She had to repeatedly cor­
rect her questioner when he used 
the words, “control,” “direct,” 
“order,” because WSP does not 
have a central authority and so j 
these words could not be applied | 
to her position. It is, instead, a 
group of autonomous groups with 
similar beliefs who decide on an 
action, notify the other groups of j 
their plans, and then proceed, 
whether they are joined or not. It ; 
was so stated that the recent at­
tempts at getting international 
cooperation of women was the re­
sult of Communist influence. Mrs. 
Wilson’s reply: “International is a
A Candle in the Darkness
By Jeffrey Axelrad
Season of Renewal,
And there are those who have little and give 
it all.
These are the believers in life and the bounty 
of life, and their coffer is never empty.
There are those who give with joy, and that 
joy is their reward.
—Kahlil Gibrani
On Thursday, March 21, the i 
Pennsylvania Society of Profes- The National Student YWCA 
sional Engineers and Carnegie an(* World University Service are 
Tech’s Industrial Management So- sponsoring a travel-study-work j beautiful wuid. 
ciety will present a panel discus— j seminar in Asia this summer for J The Liveral Club brought M^rs. 
sion on the topic “Work Con- interested college women. The Bergholz, a 1961 Tech graduate, 
flicts Between the Engineer and seminar group will include 42 to Tech in order to gain insight 
Management ” This discussion ipersons> I8 of which are to be U HUAC and its operations. 
will be held in the Wherrett , , , , , , , I
Lounge in Skibo at 8:00 p.m. The students> for a two and one-half j This committee was voted the 
moderator for the discussion will month program in Asia. The pro- third largest appropriation for all 
be Mr. E. D. Stuart of the Uni- gram will include: a minimum of committees in Congress this year 
versity of Pittsburgh. Mr. P. R. seven weeks in India and appro- ! and has been termed by Harry S.
PWetk£ °f ,rSVel •¦—'un-An»-
engineering profession on the . er Asian countnes- The focus ican” activity; it has even linked 
panel, whereas Mr. Carl Brundt seminar will be on a meet- integrationists. writh Communism,
of J & L Steel Corporation will ing in depth with Indian uni.ver- Interested Tech students are at- 
present management’s views. Re- sity students; visiting a number ] tempting to learn what HUAC has 
ireshments will be served at the of university centers; participating., done, what it can do, what its 
conclusion of the meeting. in a seminar for several weeks in authority is, and why a committee
Bangalore, India, with Indian stu- which so blantantly ignores civil 
In addition, the I. M. Societ\ dents and professors, and a joint ( liberties receives the sanction of 
will hold its annual election meet- U.S.-Indian student work project i the House of Representatives, 
ing in the G.S.I.A. auditorium on several weeks duration. For Opinions and inquiries are wel- 
Wcdnesday, March 27, at 8.00 part Gf the two and one-half j come. Come to the Liberal Club 
p.m. The society’s officers, the month period the students would Tuesdays from 6:00 to 7:00 or 
president, the vice-president, and ^ divided into three small groups, ' write a letter to the Tartan, 
Ph! secretary-treasurer, will be each with a non-student leader, to ----------------------------------------------------------
Spring anywhere is a season of hope, a season of hap­
piness, and a season for thought. For some irrational reason 
people are less wrorried and more friendly on the first few 
warm days after the long winter cold. The warmth is re­
flected in the melting puddles, and the hellos of strangers. 
The “important” things in life seem less important for a few 
days . . . instead a person dreams and hopes.
Hope is by itself a not very rational or logical pheno­
menon—“A person or thing that gives promise for the 
future.” Yet hope needs no material reason for existing. It 
forms and spreads as if the warmth and sun of spring signal 
the birth of a new and better future. Hope holds the promise 
of happiness for all people: Love, a better future, and the 
knowledge that these can come to anyone. Place yourself 
in the body of a Pu.erto-Rican living on the streets of New 
York. Spring alone represents hope; you can now shed 
your heavy clothing, sing, and hope that perhaps this sum-v 
mer you will get a job and life will be better. Can any 
concept be more valuable than hope?
In winter the ground is hard and cold. In spring it is 
soft and green. Color returns in a form that is not painted 
and artificial. People can be seen walking slowly instead or 
rushing. Coats are shed. Quarrels are forgotton. Couples 
fall in love.
Carnegie Tech changes from a school to a small town. 
People can be seen talking, playing tennis, reading or study-f\ 
ing in the park, and doing “nothing”. Students go to movies 
that seem appropriate—like David and Lisa.
Some persons may say “Axelrad has done it again.” He 
has written stilted and artificial stream of consciousness, 
and said nothing. Perhaps such criticisms are justified — I 
make no claims to being able to express myself well in this 
field . . . But in the spring people do strange and illogical 
things.
“‘‘CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
elected for next year.
YW Girls Assist 
Men on March 23
facilitate getting to know Indian this country prior to departure. It 
students on a more personal level. is expected that on their return, 
Qualifications for applicants: j serninar participants would be ac-
1. Upperclass or graduate stu- tively interested in bettering our 
dents between ages 19 and 24 relationship with the thousands 
(having completed their junior of Asians studying in the U.S. and
year)
Men in dorms and fraternities 
who want their shoes shined
would promote and interpret the 
development of East-West rela­
tionships.
The cost of the seminar, in-
2. Demonstrated ability to ac­
cept responsibility and function 
well in a group situation with 
properly for their date on Sat- people of widely different back- 1 eluding round-the world plane
urday, March 23, will find girls grounds and viewpoints. transportation from New York, is
from the Campus YWCA, as- 3. Academic preparation in in- $2300 There will be substantial
sisted by men from the YMCA, ternational affairs, political sci- scholarship grants available to
coming to perform this task on ence, American History and re- qualified persons. These grants
Saturday afternoon between 12:00 lated subjects, while not re- may cover 50% to 75% depending
and 4:00 for a quarter a pair. YM quested, will be very desirable. on need.
members will recruit the shoes Participants will be expected to |
and the girls will do the shining. 
Proceeds will go into the Y con- 
Vrence scholarship fund.
do reading and study in advance, I If you are Interested, please 
and to make an effort to make contact the Y offce in Skibo be- 
Indian students in i fore March 25.
Offices: Skibo, Room 50, Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Office phone, MU. 2-4557; Editor-in-Chief, MU. 3-0407; 
Business Manager, MU. 2-9580; Advertising Manager, MA. 
1-1504; Managing Editor, MA. 1-6610. Published weekly 
during the school year except holidays and examination 
periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Annual Subscription Rate $2.50 
Second Class Portage Paid at Pittsburgh. Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.
Editor-in-chief .................................Martin Ackermann
Executive Editor ....................................Elaine Grumer
Managing Editor .........................................Fritz Klinke
Business Manager ......................................Miron Straf -
News Editor....................................................Margie Park
Assistant News Editor.....................................Jan Scharp
Features Editor ..................................B. J. Zimnewicz
Copy Editor ....................................................Anne Moser
Advertising Manager .....................Charles HoFook
Sports Editor ....................................................John Blue
Layout Editor.............................................Allan Pollock
Secretarial Editor .........................................Kathy Vogel
Circulation Editor .........................Mike Greenawalt
Editorial Board: Mark Applebaum, Colin Jones. Margie Park, Henry Henderson, 
B. J. Zimnewicz, Miron Straf, and Chuck First.
Layout Staff: Nancy Cameron. Mike McCoy. Sue Stitt, Marion Mulligan, Drew^
Lippay, Dick Elder. Fritz Klinke, Tom Glassberg.
News Staff: Colin Jones, Marty Moore, Fay Landau, Frank Brady, Gladys Stal- 
insky Jaye Lapidus, Elie Denberg, Miriam Gillespie, Marion Mulligan, Lois 
FlinofT. Janice Lester, Jam Leone, Marty Sau?r, Chuck Steinmeyer, Peggy 
Riva. Judi Meyers. Jan Scharp, Marty Siege). Sally Sheats, Sandy Lancaster, 
Cindy Wolfson, Ellen Hamill, Nancy Adams, Sandy Byrne.
Sports: Scott McCormick. Ken Kantrowltz.
Secretarial Staff: Betsy Bellows, Mary Breitenstein, Jane Cline, Susan Witt, and 
Leslie McKinley.
Circulation: Tom Johnson, George Kail and 0«*y Priest.
Features Staff: Andrea Nether. Joan Hoexter, Jane Skeeliari, Ruth Geshekten, 
Susan Crytzer, Perry Axarlis, Nadalyn Goldberg, Ken Lieberman, Jefn'ey 
Axelrad. Marion Mulligan, Judy Meyers. Lynn Mahler, Jennifer Low, Marty 
Sauer. Irene Grandberg. Ollie Donaldson.
Cony Staff: Jane Keeler, Barbara Brpwn, Jane Samuels, Diane Brown, Mary 
Muit. Claire Dzalko. Nancy Giecn, Ginny riU. Verna Ream, Nancy Camcion.^
Photography: .Rick Blackburn, Russ Steinbaugh, Bill Jackson.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, March 20, 1963 — CARNEGIE TECH — Pagre 3
'Jones Pays Tribute 
To “Beat”Generation
Mr. “Pete’' Jones spoke at the 
March 12 Assembly in the Fine 
rts theatre on “the Spokesman 
f the beat generation,” Jack 
Kerouac. This was the third in a 
series of four English Department 
lectures on “Literary Pioneers.” 
Jack Kerouac is, according to 
Mr. Jones, a rebel against 
the “conformity, conventionality, 
On The Road especially, Kerouac 
criticizes the blind following of 
conventional moral and social 
standards. He cannot understand 
"^hy one should follow the con­
ventional code when one sees “the 
senseless actions of a society that 
preaches brotherhood and makes 
atomic bombs,” nor can he re­
spect an older generation that 
created all the problems the 
| younger generation is left to solve.
Thus he extolls individuality and 
j freedom from society’s bonds. 
Although Kerouac criticizes 
America, Mr. Jones declared, he 
r ^does so because he feels it has 
not fulfilled its potential. He has 
reverence and love for his coun­
try, and is always aware of 
America and himself as an Amer­
ican.
Essentially, the speaker main­
tained, Kerouac’s message is one 
of love; the beat’s revolt is an ac­
tive, but a compassionate search 
for “it.”
Mr. Jones stated that in order to 
understand Kerouac’s works one 
must first understand his defini­
tion of “beat.” The World War II 
generation is between the cold 
war and the atom bomb. The 
chaos and uprooting of the war 
has caused a revolt against mid­
dle class standards. The beat 
character is one in quest for “it;” 
he is searching for a meaningful 
life and personal positive values 
once he has rejected conventional 
values. The true beat is uncon­
sciously religious, in search for 
God, but “passionately, frantical­
ly alive.” Contrary to popular 
thought, the beat has an ethical 
code. He believes in the “infall­
ibility of comradship,” has a 
“mystical regard for courage,” 
and practices “continuous com­
passion.”
The characters in On The Road 
exemplify Kerouac’s vision of the 
beat generation. These reject all 
society’s standards. In search for 
their own, they and Kerouac are 
sympathetic toward all of society’s 
outcasts and envious of their free­
dom — the Negro, who is forced 
to find his own values; the jazz 
musician, whose music is that of 
inner freedom, of the creative in­
dividual rather than the interpre­
tative one.
Dean Moriarty, Mr. Jones feels, 
is typical of these “hot beats who 
are also cool.” Yet even he is not 
the perfect beat, reflected Mr. 
Jones. Dean is the symbol of re­
volt but he lacks compassion and 
hurts others. Kerouac promotes 
these characters as the great 
heroes of America, the speaker 
continued. To themselves they 
have freedom, independence, and 
self-confidence, while to us they 
are “alien, incomprehensible . . . 
perhaps evil, perhaps only irre­
sponsible.”
Kerouac is an autobiographical 
author, Mr. Jones asserted. In all 
his novels except the first one, 
The Town and The City, the 
author relates his own experiences 
of places he knows. Kerouac’s 
characters are creations through 
whom the author views the 
world; the narrator is but a mask 
for himself. Mr. Jones explained 
Kerouac’s justification of the 
autobiographical nature of his 
works: the author considered his 
view of the world as representa­
tive of what the actual view of 
America is or should be. He also 
saw the “self” as the epitome of 
everyone. All men are equal; by 
describing one he would describe 
them all.
Even Kerouac’s style is an “out­
cry for individuality,” Mr. Jones 
continued. “He rejects the 
strengths and conventions of the 
literary world, and has a spon­
taneous method of writing.” Long 
rambling sentences, repetitious 
monologues, minute detail, and an 
awareness of individual speech 
patterns of the characters are part
of his stylistic revolt. Mr. Jones 
emphasized, however, that Kerou­
ac’s primary objective is complete 
honesty in his writings.
But Mr. Jones pointed out sev­
eral inconsistencies in Kerouac’s 
thoughts. First, the author extolls 
action, yet his narrators are pas­
sive; they react rather than act 
and follow rather than lead. Sec­
ondly, Kerouac’s hipster society 
demands conformity while fight­
ing the standard conformity. Last, 
the author advises to “tell bores 
to go to hell,” “But also to “prac­
tice continuous compassio n.” 
These inconsistencies, concluded 
Mr. Jones, show perhaps only that 
“it is easier to say than to do.”
Pitt Professor Continues 
Electrochemistry Lectures
Dr. David M. Mohilner, assist­
ant professor in the department 
of chemistry at the University of 
Pittsburgh, will deliver the sec­
ond in a series of lectures on 
“Electrochemistry” being spon­
sored by the Analytical Chemistry 
Group of the American Chemical 
Society.
Professor Mohilner will talk on 
“Correlation of Electrode Kinetics 
with Structure of the Electrical 
Double Layer.” The lecture will 
be given at 8:30 p.m., Wednesday,
March 20, in the Alan M. Scaife 
Hall of Engineering.
Other lectures in the series are 
scheduled for March 27 and April 
10. The program will conclude 
with a round table discussion on 
April 17.
Especially catering to the COED . . .
GATE tf|||fashion
416 S. Craig Street 
Specializing in Women’s and Misses Apparel and Accessories 
HIGH-STYLED FASHIONS MODERATE PRICES
Where Browsing or Shopping Is a Pleasure 
Lay-a-Way — Charge Accounts
OPEN TUESDAY AND THURSDAY ’TILL 9 
FREE PARKING AT ATLANTIC STATION — FORBES AND CRAIG
3o(k Song
(Concert
fOsIgOH sdEA 
GOTTATCOFF sdEA
SATURDAY, MARCH 30
8:30 p.m.
Carnegie Lecture Hall 
Students $1.25
Tickets: Tech Book Store 
sponsored by 
Pittsburgh Women 
for Peace
& Websrer bngineers 
are kno-n around rhe 
-orqd cor rhe reqiabiqiry 
oc rhe pqanrs 
rhey buiqd
4 Engineering Trainees s6.000
Night school students with over two years 
and grade average over 2.5.
wIGjOTEGOF Ad IFIGsdEGOF
Supplemental educational benefits 
with large Pittsburgh corporation.
Cali... CAREER PERSONNEL
GR 1-8926
4150 Jenkins Arcade Pittsburgh, 22
SHOES SHOES SHOES
WALLYS
BtC*FD — AtlTR§K
Women Men
SMART CASUALS HUSH - PUPPIES
LOAFERS LOAFERS
FLATS MASSAGIC
DRESS SHOES FLORSHEIM
U.S. KEDS
3612 FORBES AVE. (Across from Strand Theater)
We SR§ Vt**f -T IWlM-§ rTF -T OMDM- »FR N§U 0-TR§
Goldenfelds Self ¦Serv* Market
4525 Forbes Avenue at Craig Street
formerly 414 S. Craiff Street
— We Carry The Most Complete Line Of Select —
Groceries — Choice Meats — Dairy Products 
Frozen Food — Fresh Fruits and Vegetables 
Dietetic Fruits and Vegetables — Also a Complete Line 
of General Merchandise Including a Delicatessen
New York • Boston ? Chicago • Houston • San Francisco • Los Angeles • Seattle • Washington, D. C.
Stone & Webster Engineering Limited ¦ London • Stone & Webster Engineering S. A.- Paris • Stone & Webster Engineefmg N. V. Amsterdam, 
Stoned Webster Canada Limited Toronto • Associated Nucleonics. Inc.-Garden City, N, Y.
A Stone & Webster representative will be 
on campus on April 3.
Your Placement Office will give you details 
and our booklet, "Stone & Webster and 
You”, or write to us at 49 Federal Street, 
Boston 9, Massachusetts.
A STONE & WEBSTER E*„a„s
The triskelion, the Stone & Webster 
insignia, is worn in the lapel of Stone & 
Webster engineers. It marks a man of ac­
complishment . . . and is respected wherever 
gather.
Stone & Webster designs and constructs 
power stations . . . steam, hydro, nuclear 
. . . process plants . . . petroleum, petro­
chemical, chemical . . . industrial plants of 
many kinds throughout the world.
Perhaps there is a place for you at Stone 
& Webster. Each year a limited number of 
engineering graduates join our team ... and 
proudly wear the triskelion.

---------------------------------------------------

Hungry for 
flavor? 
Tareyton's
gotitUI
limonili
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
MARCH 29. 1963
See your placement director now to 
arrange an interview with the Raytheon representative.
Engineers & Scientists
Discuss Current Openings 
with RAYTHEON
Raytheon offers challenging assignments for BS and MS candidates in 
EE, ME, Mathematics and Physics. Openings are in the areas of:
RADAR, INFRARED, MISSILE & SPACE SYSTEMS, COMMUNICATIONS & DATA PROCESSING, 
SOLID STATE, SONAR, ELECTRON TUBE & COMPONENTS TECHNOLOGY, 
MICROWAVE ELECTRONICS, MANUFACTURING & FIELD SERVICE ENGINEERING
Facilities are located in New England, California 
and Tennessee. If an interview is not convenient on 
above date, forward your resume to Mr. G. W. Lewis,
Manager of College Relations, Raytheon Company,
Lexington 73, Massachusetts.
An Equal Opportunity Employer
CARN 6 — CARNEGIE TECH — Wednesday, March 20, 1963
Delta Upsilon Begins Program 
Of Tuesday Dinner Guests
This semester Delta Upsilon is 
initiating a dinner guest program; 
a variety of scholars and com­
munity leaders from the Pitts-
Club Discusses 
The Theatre
Politics and woman’s social 
status are not the only issues dis­
cussed by International Club. 
This coming Sunday, the theatre 
¦will provide the focus of the eve­
ning.
Mr. Karl Harchbarger, RCA- 
NBC Fellow in the Department of 
Drama, will present a talk on 
“The Theatre of the Absurd,” 
¦with illustrations and taped selec­
tions from the works of Ionesco 
and Beckett. Mr. Harchbarger, 
who has a rich background in 
theatrical literature, has also been 
seen by Tech audiences in the 
role of Mr. Carlton, Sr. in “Mis- 
alianee.” He is also scheduled to 
appear in the forthcoming pro­
duction of “The Bacchae” sched­
uled for late April.
The meeting will be held on 
Sunday, March 24, in the Wher- 
rett Room, Skibo, at 8:30 p.m. 
Tea and coffee will be served as 
usual during the social hour fol­
lowing the meeting. All are wel­
come.
Forum Features
burgh area will be the guests of 
the fraternity for its Tuesday 
night dinner. After dinner infor­
mal discussions will be conducted.
The program began on Tues­
day, February 26, when Dr. Em­
erson M. Pugh, Associate Head 
of the Physics Department, was 
Delta U's guest. Dr. Pugh, whose 
two sons are alumni of Tech’s 
D.U. chapter, talked about his 1 research work during the war 
on explosives, and discussed job 
opportunities.
The following Tuesday, Mr. 
Kenneth J. Wenger, Director of 
Admissions Counseling was D.U.’s 
guest. Mr. Wenger discussed the 
great changes taking place in 
Tech's recruiting program. He 
, placed particular emphasis on the 
new Alumni Representative pro­
gram, under which C.I.T. alumni 
in the major U.S. cities will dis­
cuss C.I.T. with local high school
j students and interview prospec- 
I tive students. Also mentioned 
was the greatly improved Under­
graduate Catalogue, and the need 
for more school spirit and interest 
in activities.
S. GREEN
¦Ml Watches Electronically Timed
EXPERT WATCH AND 
JEWELRIf REPAIRS 
123 Oakland Ave. MU. 1-6104
Thompson's Music 
For Final Program
The music of Virgil Thomson, 
one of the most eminent figures 
of American music, will be the 
subject for the final program in 
this year’s series of Composers 
Forums. The forum will be pre­
sented on Saturday, March 23, at 
3:00 p.m. in Carnegie Music Hall.
A profile composer of import­
ant works for stage and screen, 
Mr. Thomson is perhaps best 
known for his two operas "Four 
Saints in Three Acts” and "The 
Mother of Us All” written in 
collaboration with Gertrude Stein. 
In addition to his outstanding 
composing career, he has also con­
tributed significantly to the art 
of music criticism as music critic 
for the New York Herald Tribune.
Included on the program are 
Thomson’s Shakespeare songs, his 
William Blake songs, and his 
“M ass for Solo Voice.” Also in- ; 
eluded are selections from his | 
“Etudes” for piano and “Por­
traits” for piano.
The Composers Forums, spon- j 
sored by the department of music < 
at Carnegie Institute of Tech- j 
nology, are free and the public 
is invited to attend. Other com­
posers who were previously hon- 
©rede this year are Alexei Haieff, 
Ross Lee Finney, and Lester 
Trimble.
Save
Your
Pennies
UMOC
" Tareyton’s Dual Filter in duas partes divisa est!”
gays Publius (Hot Rock) Cato of the MCLXXXVII Flame Throwing Legion. “What lux,” exclaims 
Hot Rock, “to enjoy a Tareyton in medias res! Here’s flavor maximus — de gustibus you never thought 
you'd get from any filter cigarette!’*
, Dual Filter makes the difference ..................................
DUAL FILTER
Produd oj c/Át — Ju&uw u oar mtdéU mame T f*Tareyton
wuw mMU *»m C C a f •

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, Mareh 20, 1963 — CARNEGIE TECH — P»*e 7
FOSTERWHEELER CORPORATION
4
World - wide engineers, manufacturers 
and constructors of equipment for power 
generation in stationary and marine fields.
New attractive engineering headquart­
ers in suburban New Jersey, convenient to 
colleges and universities for graduate study.
Opportunities for mechanical engineers 
in design, development, and manufacturing 
— literature available in placement office. 
Company recruiters on campus March 25,
1963.
— t'noto Dy Aron coiJonsLiz Seneff and the Midnight Riders entertain Greeks 
during Jazz test in Skibo ballroom in conjunction with Greek 
Sing and Swing.
Harold Betters
S ’ii S Begins 
Rehearsal Of 
Secret Show
What appears to be turmoil and 
confusion in Skibo’s ballroom 
every night is actually the early 
stages of S ’n S’s rehearsals. Also, 
what might appear to the out­
sider as unorganized . confusion 
is actually carefully directed ac­
tivity.
Howard Peters and Dinah Ma­
thias are driving the cast hard, 
but the cast, in return, is still 
retaining the determined spirit 
and energy which promises to 
make this year’s production a 
great success.
Although the theme of the 
show has not been revealed, ru­
mors which have leaked out 
promise a new and refreshing 
theme. With only six weeks to 
go, there is a great deal to be 
accomplished. The next few weeks 
promise long exhausting rehear- 
sa’s, extensive crew work, S ’n S’s 
usual publicity stunts and the 
general activity which surrounds 
a forthcoming production.
The campus can look forward 
to a show which will be the best 
S ’n S has to offer. With the tal­
ent they have to work with, and 
the enthusiastic people who are 
directing and shaping up the 
show . . . the best promises to 
be magnificcent.
Buy
A
Thistle
Groups Perform for GreeksWRCT Announces Weekly Schedule
Time Monday-Thursday
3:00- 6:00p.m. Club 90
6:00- 7:00 
7:00- 8:00 
8:00- 9:00 
9:00-10:00 
10:00-11:00
Dust
Music of Masters 
Music of Masters 
Destination Jazz 
Destination -Jazz
11:00- 1:00a.m. Night Train 
l:00r 2:00 Sign Off 
2:00
Friday
Club 90 
Dust
Weekend Show 
Weekend Show 
Weekend Show 
Oldies But Goodies 
Oldies But Goodies 
Oldies But Goodies 
Sign Off
Saturday
Club 90 
Club 90 
Showtime 
Weekend Show 
Weekend Show 
Weekend Show 
Weekend Show 
Sign Off
Sunday
Celidih
Celidih
Music of Masters 
Music of Masters 
Bandland 
Bandland 
Showcase 
Sign Off
Many engineering- and scientific graduates have that as an objective — achieving 
it is a reality at UAC’s Corporate Systems Center.
CSC was formed to bring together under one management the vast technical 
resources of United Aircraft (one of the nation’s forty largest corporations) and 
its world-famous divisions. A young, relatively small organization, CSC is 
engaged in all phases of systems work in areas such as stellar inertial guidance, 
mobile ballistic missiles, weather technology, bio-science systems, orbital ren­
dezvous and satellite navigation and control.
Rapid expansion in programs provides exceptional advancement potential for 
capable graduates. CSC’s “small company” environment coupled with the 
stability and benefits of a major corporation provide an ideal climate for 
professional growth.
In the heart of picturesque New England, we are located almost exactly midway 
between Boston and New York City — only brief parkway hours from each.
Investigate CSC career advantages during our visit. If you are unable to see 
our placement representative during interviews on your campus, write to 
Mr. R. A. Fuller, Box 1047, Broadstreet Station, Manchester, Connecticut — an 
equal opportunity employer.
Opportunities for Chemists, Physicists, Biologists, Mathematicians, Civil, Aero­
nautical, Mechanical, Electrical and Chemical Engineers,Metallurgists, 
Meteorologists, Oceanographers, Geophysicists and others.
GOwSmo ETsIdbEIgo
Sec your College 
Placement Officer for 
more information 
and an appointment.
smIoUOHa wOdGj ct
mniP!d
diri-raft CORPORATE SYSTEMS CENTER 
I I * TUI C4 I L Windsor Locks, Connecticut

---------------------------------------------------

rage t — CARNEGIE TECH — Wednesday. March 20, 1963
CO WO PyHg CyLLbGb
OF LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY-BROOKVILIE, LONG ISLAND, N.Y. 
Member, The College Board-Accredited by Middle States Association
Now Accepting Applications for
TWO 5-WEEK SUMMER SESSIONS 
DAY & EVENING
June 24th to July 26th — July 29th to August 30th
TIg wIT'o and gAwIT'o dIoEUITGI jOFFo ObOEFOCFI
An exceptional blend of modern, superior educational 
and cultural facilities on a traditional 126-acre campus 
setting: this is C. W. Post College on the North Shore 
of Long Island, one hour from midtown Manhattan.
Nearby are famous beaches, sailing dubs, 
summer stock theatres, parks, golf courses.
On-campus features include swimming, gymnasium, 
riding, bowling, theatre and concerts.
ACCELERATE YOUR DEGREE PROGRAM 
UNDERGRADUATE COURSE offerings include studies in 
Liberal Arts & Sciences, Pre-Professional, Pre-Engineer­
ing, Business, Education, Dance Workshop.
GRADUATE COURSE offerings include studies in Biological 
Sciences, Education, English, Guidance and Counseling, 
History, Library Science, Mathematics, Music Education 
and Political Science.
DISTINGUISHED VISITING AND RESIDENT FACULTY 
OUTSTANDING LIBRARY FACILITIES 
APPLY NOW ... Admission open to VISITING STUDENTS 
from other accredited colleges.
Nor addiPionaB infor:aPiona sZ::!r MZBB!Pin and appBicaPiona phon! wOefair tiLcYY or :aiB coZpon
E ** "osr!cPor of oZ::!r ochooBa Gr gr SosP GoBB!y!a SrAra fr!!nvaB!a FrEra TrHr
SB!as! s!nd :! oZ::!r o!ssions infor:aPion MZBB!Pinr £
B ? go:!n’s d!sid!nc! jaBB ? w!n’s d!sid!nc! jaBB
? mnd!ryradZaP! ? fradZaP! ? Uae ? Iv!niny
| Ta:!rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr
Address.........................................................................................................................
i City..............................................................................State.........................................Ih Ef visiPiny sPZd!nPa fro: which coBB!y!?rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr
Tomorrow’s job satisfactions...through today’s job decision
If your concept of job satisfactions includes responsibility for results, in* 
dividual recognition, and continuing opportunities for creative contribu­
tion, professional careers at Air Products and Chemicals, Inc. will interest 
you.
Air Products successful record of growth from sales of $3 million in 
1949 to over $100 million in 1962 results from pioneering advances in 
cryogenics, leadership in chemical processing, and aggressive marketing.
Our Career Development program places you in a series of responsible 
positions vital to the Company’s continued expansion. In this way, you will 
have a sound basis for selecting your long-range career interest. Specific 
assignments in this program include: Engineering, Research, Technical 
Marketing, Advanced Product Development, Operations, Computer Cen­
ter, Sales, Finance, and Administration.
Air Products is located in Eastern Pennsylvania within short driving 
distance of Philadelphia and New York. Advanced personnel programs 
include graduate study under a tuition refund plan at excellent nearby 
universities.
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS-MARCH 26
PLEASE CONTACT YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICE
If you are unable to visit our representative on campus, please send your 
resume to:Richard Dunnuck, Manager, Career Development 
Air Products and Chemicals, Inc.
Allentown, Pennsylvania 
AN IQmOF ASSAdsmTEsH IwSFAHId
OC7ffo 7%0ctuctl ami Cicmicaû
Allentown, PennsylvaniaINC*
Delta Delta Delta— Photo by Aron Collons
Tau Delta Phi
Tri Delta and Tau Delt win second place trophies in Friday
— Kioto by Aron Collons
ling's Greek Sing competiton.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, March 20, 1963 — CARNEGIE TECH — Page E
hotel
WEBSTER HALL
You'll rate with your date...
For a meal or just 
a snack-put Hotel 
Webster Hall on your close-to-campus entertain­
ment schedule.
kotef/ Web/dm Hall
4415 Fifth Av#nw« Fittfburah 13, to. 
s«B*phon«: wOefBow«r 1-7700
f
a
IM Basketball Ends iegular Play; 
Grad Eagles Favored in Playoffs
By Scot McCormick
The regulation league play in 
IM basketball has finished and 
the all-important playoffs have 
now begun. The Grad Eagles are 
in an excellent position to boost 
their total all-sports points boast­
ing two unbeaten teams, their 
“A” squad as well as their “B” 
squad. These results make the 
Grads “A” team a slight favorite 
to take the championship al­
though anything can happen in 
a playoff game.
The well-balanced Grad “A” 
squad, paced by high scoring Ron 
DaPrano and John Dowdle 
clinched first place in the Takers 
league by whipping third place 
Tau Delta Phi 44-31. Dowdle hit 
for 15 and DaPrano for 14 in 
this one. The Finks “B” coasted 
into the second place position by 
winning a forfeit from the Trot­
ters and then clobbering Dunkers 
“A” 57-13. Three players hit
double figures for the Finks in­
cluding consistently high scoring 
Ken Wincko with ten markers. 
In the only other game played, 
DU “B” outscored SAE “A” 74-56. 
A total of five players broke 
twenty in this one paced by Bob 
Wright of SAE who canned 28.
The game of the week had the 
Grad Eagles “B” edging out Sig­
ma Nu “A” 48-41 to take first 
place in the Celtics League. Bill 
Oosterhuis sunk ten foul shots and 
scored twenty points while his 
teammates Bob Fenn scored 
twelve in the second half to break 
a 20-20 halftime tie and bring 
home a victory for the Grads. The 
Grads routed the Firndocks 47-29 
to win their other game- last week. 
BTP “A”, paced by Jack Lynch’s 
26, killed helpless KS “B” 50-13 
and clinched third place. The Tro­
jans “B” upset Beta Sig 37-27 
with Long scoring 14 for the Tro­
jans. The Firndocks beat Finks 
“A” 32-20 and then won from 
KS “B” by forfeit to round out 
the league’s play.
ATO “A” racked up 32 points 
in the second half to knock off 
the Vulcans 43-30 and take sec­
ond place in the Royals league. 
Chip McKnight scored eleven 
and Steve Foels ten for ATO in
SENIORS
this one. The EE Grads used a 
well balanced scoring attack to 
edge DTD 45-44. BTP “B” for­
feited two games to DU ‘A” and 
DTD and TDP “White” lost to 
the EE grads 35-26 and the Archi­
tects 50-33 to round out play in 
the Royals League.
Ken Bechtel’s 16 points sparked 
well-drilled Kappa Sig’s Road- 
runners to an easy 43-26 win 
over PKT “A” to sew up second 
place in the Warriors league in 
the big game played there. Theta 
Xi had a big week, winning by 
forfeit from ATO “T” and then 
edging the Jaweewees 40-38 in a 
real thriller. Dave Blacker had 17 
for the winners while Butch Fay- 
er hit on 16 for the losers. In the 
only other game played, the Met 
Grads clobbered ATO “T” 46-24.
The playoff quarter-finals took 
place this Monday with the big 
game being ATO against the 
Grad Eagles' “A”. These two 
teams are the leading, and vir­
tually only, contenders for the 
IM all-sports trophy and each 
virtually needs a win in the play­
offs to keep their position in the 
running.
Other quarter - final games 
paired the Grad Eagles “B” 
against the Roadrunners, Du “A” 
against Sigma Nu, and the Trojans 
“W” against Finks “B.” The semi­
finals will be played starting at 
7:00 p.m. tonight and the cham­
pionship game will be held Fri­
day at 8:15 p.m. These should 
be some exciting contests that 
any basketball fan would regret 
missing.
Photo by Aron Collons
Grad's "B” Bill Oosterhuis up and in over the out­
stretched arms of Sigma Nu’s Andy Logan. Grad's "B" de­
feated SN in a battle of the unbeatens, 47-41, to capture 
first in.the Laker League.
THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES 
SALUTE: MIKE HARRIS
Mike Harris (B.S.E., 1961) is an Engineer with New Jersey 
Bell Telephone Company in Trenton. Mike reviews the 
day-to-day problems of the Red Bank District which arise 
in building space planning and central office equipment 
programming.
Since his solutions to these problems bring about im­
provements in speed and quality of telephone service,
his recommendations are welcomed by his management.
Earlier training assignments prepared Mike for this 
job. And proved he was ready for it!
Mike Harris and other young engineers like him in 
Bell Telephone Companies throughout the country help 
bring the finest communications service in the world to the 
homes and businesses of a growing America.
BbLL gbLbPpyNb CyMPnNIbH
Looking for IVork!
Consider Bfremer and 
Walker Associates for 
your job placement. 
Engineers - Liberal Arts
? Bremer & Walker Associates
976 Union Trust BIdg. 
Pittsburgh 19, Penna. 
Telephone: 471-9319

---------------------------------------------------

Paffe 10 — CARNEGIE TECH — Wednesday, March 20, 1963
an advanced degree, 
let’s talk 
some more.
You'll be part of a 3500-person facility 
responsible for R&D on America's 
lunar, planetary, and interplanetary 
explorations. If you come to Caltech's 
Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, 
California, you’ll find the finest technical 
facilities in the world - like the library 
with 125,000 technical documents, 
the most sophisticated computers, 
space simulators, acres of laboratory 
space, and about three support people 
for every one of you. And you’ll be 
working with the finest scientific minds 
in the country. If you want to 
think hard for a living, you should 
think hard about coming to JPL.
JIs SdASmFoEAT FOCAdOsAdH
.’YY Opt GfOve Drive, Pasadena, California 
"An rqua! oppoMjnity (?rtvptoy&r”.
Operated by Cofitorma loslKuie of Technology, 
for thfl No'fOool Asrcfioiifi'cs & Spoc^ AdoHnistralioii.
IM Sports Night Friday 
Prizes To Be Awarded
The year-long intramural pro­
gram of Carnegie Tech will be 
climaxed this coming Friday night 
when individual and team awards 
for past IM' events will be pre­
sented at Intramural Night cer­
emonies. Also on tap are the con­
solation and championship games 
in IM basketball. The event will 
be held in the Skibo gym.
Awards will be presented at 
8:30 p.m., following the consola­
tion basketball game and im­
mediately before the champion­
ship contest. Presenting the 
awards will be Phil Hodge, Pres­
ident of the Intramural Mana­
gers Club. Al Kullen, IM Board 
President, and Gene Boyer, IM 
Supervisor.
To be presented are: Football, 
ATO; Most Valauable Player, 
Football—DeVos; Team Volley­
ball—ATO: MVP Volleyball—Ko- 
sofsky; Bowlin g—BTP; MVP 
Bowling—Dervais; Water Polo— | 
ATO; Foul Shooting—ATO; Three 
man Volleybal 1—ATO; Co- 
rec Vollelyball—SAE; Tennis— 
Grad Eagles; Squash—Grad 
Eagles; Team Tablel Tennis— 
Undergrad Sparrows.
Awards that have not been 
won as of this writing but which 
will have been settled by IM 
night are: Individual Table Ten­
nis, Wrestling, Swimming, and 
Basketball.
The schedule of events for the 
evening includes: 7:30—Consola­
tion basketball game; 8:30—Pres­
entation of Awards; 9:00—Cham- j 
pionship basketball game. Bars 
in fraternity houses will be ; 
closed during the event since IM ] 
Night is an All-School event, but 
will open immediately following 
the championship game.
Leading in the race for the IM 
All - School trophy, emblematic ] 
of IM supremacy, is Alpha Tau 
Omega with 36 points. They are 
closely followed by the Grad 
Eagles with 32 points. The All- 
School trophy will not be pre­
sented at IM night because of 
several spring IM sports yet to 
be played.
TONY'S BARBER SHOP
SPECIALIZING IN ALL KINDS OF HAIRCUTS
N» >SIkINp heshuk aSuahu0
135 Bouquet St. (Near Corner Forbes and Bouquet)
New Hours: 8 A.M. to 8 P.M. Daily MU. 2-9969UMOC
I.»*-M* FEDPPH
SAVINGS EARN 
LIBERAL Æm 
DIVIDENDS ¿wOF ¦¦70
1—I i i # open every luesdFrankqm cederaq "i
open every Tuesday evening 
;30 p.m;
SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATION
5816 FORBES AVE., SQUIRREL HILL
Over 85 Years Tn Serviet to the Pittsburgh Community
• SAVE BY MAIL • WE PAY POSTAGE BOTH WAYS • FREE ENVELOPES, TOO.
• SAVINGS INSURED UP TO $10.000 BY AN U.S. GOVERNMENT AGENCY
• GET EXTRA EARNINGS—SAVE BY THE TENTH—EARN FROM THE FIRST
fHck7f Oat/
tonite Ai irY' STRflno '
OAKLAND
NOW SHOWING
Jarl Kulle and 
Bibi Andefsson 
in Ingemar Bergman’s
THE DEVILS EYE
also 
Eva Bahlbeck 
Anita Bjork 
in Ingemar Bergman's
SECRETS OF WOMEN
Starting Sun. Mar. 21th 
3 days only
Shirley Katr>n 
Leslie Phillip*
CARRY ON 
CONSTABLE
MAN IN 
A COCKED HAT
MU. dmo——g
Htf Lawrence fights off 
would-be aggressor in IM 
basketball contest.
— Photo by Aron Collons
Uo eoZ 
n!!d :! 
aP 
JSF 
?
On Campus Interviews:APRIL 4 and 5, 1963
Contact University Placement Office for Aji^ointment

---------------------------------------------------

ENGINEERS:
move fast with an 
aerospace leader
O!rospac! rrr Miy MZsin!ss of Ph! 
fZPZr!rrris Podae’s :ission aP 
ja:iBPon oPandardr
Ef eoZ’r! h!adiny for an wIa II or 
OI d!yr!!a iP wiBB M! worPh eoZr 
Pi:! Po ch!ck wiPh Zs wh!n oZr 
coBB!y! p!rsonn!B r!pr!s!nPaPiv! 
is on ca:pZsr
sh! daP!:
March 25,1963
C!for! h! arriv!sa pick Zp a facPi pack!d MrochZr! aP eoZr pBac!­
:!nP offic!r EP yiv!s eoZ a no­
MaBon!e picPZr! of how oZr !nyi­
n!!rs Biv!a work and pBaer Env!sP 
eoZr knowB!dy! in Ph! B!adiny 
a!rospac! P!a:rrr
Hamilton United
Standard Pi rcraft
gindsor Focksa Gonnr
An Equal Opportunity Employer
CRiCKETEER
VOLU (tarlj Bottae
Traditional Apparel jor Men 
5823 Forbes Ave. Squirrel Hill
Phone 521-7600
Open Tuesday and Thursday evenings sntil 9:6#
Wednesday, March 20, 1963 — CARNEGIE TECH — Page 11
OsA oizzB!s
Foul Shots 
Hn Competition
ATO shot a sizzling 79.2% from 
the foul line as their five man 
team won the intramural foul 
shooting championship, bitting 
396 out of 500 to edge out SAE 
by 11 buckets. SAE was second 
with 385 and Kappa Sigma was a 
close third with 380. John Pavlik 
ti of DU was the high individual 
shooter, hitting a phenomenal 91 
out of 100. In spite of his perform­
ance, DU could only sink a total 
of 276 for 11th place in the com­
petition.
FOUL SHOTS MADE
ATO3»«
SAE385
KS38«
BTP371
BSR356
(Tie) Grad Eagles330
Trojans330
TDP "Blus”321
PKT300
TDP ‘ White’*203
DU276
ATO "T”275
SAE “B”251
HAmTf wOT
"think light" with
Travel light this Spring 
and Summer in a 
Cricketeer University 
Dacron* and 
worsted suit. The going 
will be great... 
the look impressive. 
Solids, stripes, classic 
glens in new medium 
light colorings. 
Cricketeer tailored 
on lean, natural lines., 
coat a little shorter, 
trousers narrower.
runners, looking forward to a better than average season.
Flavor! Full flavor in a filter cigarette. 
That’s why Winston is America’s best-selling 
filter cigarette! Next time, smoke Winston.
PURE WHITE, 
MODERN FILTER
plus : FILTER * BLEND up front
©19«î R. J. RejnoltM T«b*t«o Company, Win* ton- Salem, N. C. Æ
y . . I '

---------------------------------------------------

Paffe 12 — CARNEGIE TECH — Wednesday, March 2«, 1963
IM Basketball 
Final Scoring
WARRIOR
Trojans “W” 
Koadrunners (KSl 
PKT “A"
TX
Met Grads 
Jaweewees 
ATO “T”
Dunkers “B"
vv
7
t
5
4
3
c10
CELTICS
Grad Eagles “B” 
Sigma Nu “A’* 
BTP “A’
BSR
Fimdocks 
Trojans l'B”
Finks “A”
KS “B”
LAKERS
•Grad Eagles “A” 
?Finks “B”
TDP “Blue’’
DU “B”
PiKA 
SAE “A”
Dunkers ‘‘A” 
Trotters
\V
7
t
5
3
3
c1
X
W
7
5
4
3
c10
ROYALS
?DU “A"
EM:§K PTFG(§D 
IE atKCMW-TW 
»*§WD 0§tDTW
With only six games on the 
schedule, co-rec badminton open­
ed a tough season last week.
SAE has its name in two of the 
early winners as Hach and Hai’ton 
banished a TDP team of Appel- 
baum and Wizenberg; and Gam­
mon and Pogue outlasted an ATO 
team of Kurtz and Seabold. TDP 
also shares that honor, as Slavin 
«nd Persch defeated a CCCAC 
team of Rosenthal and Colburn; 
and Farrington and Fox defeated 
two Finks, Rubin and Cerra. 
Then, to complete the week, an 
ATO team of Olsen and Garaux 
was defeated by a Grad team of 
Davis and Hu; and an ATO team 
of Bertucci and Ruge was defeat­
ed by a Trojan team of Regan and 
Gaskowski.
;ATO “A” 
j Vulcans 
I Architects 
I EE Grads 
I DTD
| TDP “White”
I BTP -B”
denotes playoff berth
Water Polo 
Tournament 
Gets All Wet
As water polo prepares for its 
final weeks of play, ATO “A” 
maintains a league-leading 4-0 re­
cord, followed by a second place 
tie between the Grad Eagles and 
BSR with 3-1 records.,
ATO has built its lead' on a 19-2 
defeat of SAE, a 7-2 defeat of 
BSR. a 5-2 defeat of the Grads, 
and an easy 26-1 rout of Kappa 
Sigma.
Benefitting from forfeits by 
KS and SAE, the Grad Eagles had 
but to defeat ATO “T” 13-0 to 
secure three wins. BSR built its 
record on a forfeit by KS, a de­
feat of ATO “T,” and a 9-4 vic­
tory over SAE. In other contests, 
SAE forfeited to ATO “T,” and 
KS squeezed past ATO “T,” 8-7.
All persons, living on 
.campus. who are interested 
in working on the business 
staff of
THE
CARNEGIE
TARTAN
in a posiPion of r!sponsi­
MiBiPe and who can d!voP! 
Lic hoZrs p!r gIIKa 
pB!as! caBB M(J. ci.55u 
and B!av! na:! and P!B!­
phon! nZ:M!r and Ph! 
times eoZ can M! reached.
MINOR LEAGUES 
PISTONS
Sigma Nu ‘ B”
Marauders
SAE
\V
t6
a
Scorpions 
Pika “J"
GDI “Z’>
PSI - Cloos 
Clyde St. A. C.
KTEGKo
Finks
BTP “Greeks’
Whales
ATO “O”
Radicals
PKT “JAGS”
Morlocks
Banzai
W
7
7
t
4
3
c
c0
Boys night out? — Girls night out? 
Both night out?
Then Crab a Snack . . . or Dinner
... at RITTERS DINER
5324 CaZ: CBvdr (n!ar FiM!rPe)wmr cin’L8
s!:p!sP ginn!rsrrrFap c!
GUsr Cr dr fOdUTId
V.M. I.
UObEU Ir FFAHU
SAN DIEGO ST.
jr jr OTUIdoAT
AKFOr osr mr (Nacr)
dEGjOdU Fr owEs drwATsfAwIdHaJdr dAfId OrKmIsId
mr AN wEGjEfOT sIROo sIGjr GAFFIfI FAdOo GAFFIfI
IOdF Nr CdAgT
GAFfOsI (Nacr)
dr Er oOFCIdfa Jdr br wr wcwOTOwAT JAoI wr wOdsETIZ
mr AN GOF AIbdH sIGjr ETosr fATZOfO mr
Uid eoZ win in Fap ’?
IMPORTANT! If you hold any of the 15 winning 
numbers, claim your Pontiac Tempest LeMans Con­
vertible in accordance with the rules on the reverse 
of your license plate.
v.\y- &.<: irr• _v ' £•>:£ •*:’7*~
All claims for Tempests and Consolation Prizes 
must be sent via registered mail, postmarked by 
March 23, 1963 and received by the judges no 
later than March 25.1963.
If you hold a Consolation Prize number, you win a 
4-speed Portable Hi-Fi Stereo Set, “The Waltz" by 
RCA Victor. Or, you may still win a Tempest! (See 
official claiming rules on reverse of your license 
plate, and observe claiming dates given above.)
FOS 3... gETTETf E TmwCIdo!
1. A486272
2. C356696 
3 A062375
4. C628490
5. B797116
6. B304290
7. A622200
8. A000831
9. C050080
10. B711674
11. C426799
12. A441627
13. C741245
14. B443354
15. B597S16
CONSOLATION PRIZE NUMBERS!
1. B896122
c. C359461
3. C669684
4. A790991
5. A537928
6D B507111
7. C479883
8. C688698
9. B763706
10. B468625
11. D801532
12. B784902
13. A151426
14. HI 76099
15. B429004
16. C07958S
17. A973027
18. B315344
19. A766043
20. C031599F&w fdOTU SdER 5Y
H-eepsrakes cor coqqeges onqy
More than 50 times the chance to win than if open to the general public.
20 Tempests to go!
Get set for the last lap . . . 20 more Tempests and 25 
more Consolation Prizes! Of course, entries you’ve al­
ready submitted are still in the running—but enter again 
and improve your odds! And, if yqu haven’t entered yet, 
NOW’S THE TIME! All entries received before March 
29th will be eligible to win one of the 20 Tempests to be 
awarded in Lap 4! So pick up an entry blank where you 
buy your cigarettes ... today!
EXCLUSIVE FOR THE GIRLS!
if eoZ win a s!:p!sP eoZ :ae 
choos! insP!ad a PhriBBiny !xp!ns!i 
paid ciw!!k joBidae in IZrop!—for 
Pwo! SBZs $5YY in cash!
Get I.»* »*- I.MM-TW...
t(T (*-(§ .M W:RL.Mi W(».Wt(B».RMC
OES THE PONTIAC TEMPEST AT YOUR NEARBY PONTIAC DEALER!
