Want to win $100? Sec Features for the contest details. 
The Mattress Factory - Altenative art. See Diversions.
The Tartan
Volume 81, Number 4Carnegie Mellon UniversitySeptember 30,1986
The Bangles Are Coming! The Bangles Are Coming!
By JOSH RUBEN
Tartan Staffwriter 
Well-known pop group the Bangles will 
appear at the Syria Mosque in Oakland on 
October 29. Their appearance, sponsored 
by MTV, is the grand prize in the "Bust 
MS" competition held last year on college 
campuses across the nation. Each Carnegie 
Mellon student will receive two free tickets 
to the concert, which MTV will be filming 
to be aired at a later date.
Last year, Students Against Multiple 
Sclerosis (SAMS), a national awareness 
and fund raising program for the MS 
Society, held a fund raising competition 
involving 121 campuses. Each school tried 
to raise as much money as it could for MS 
and the winner would recieve a prize.
Carnegie Mellon collected over $23,000 
largely through work done by the 
fraternities.
Theta Xi was very instrumental in the 
fund raising efforts. "The whole house was 
involved," said brother Ried Horowitz.
Theta Xi raised over $15,000 through 
various campus and community events.
One of the most successful was "The 
Miracle Mile" in which quarters were
collected and laid end to end for a full mile 
downtown Pittsburgh. Ex-Steelerin
running back Franco Harris helped drum up 
public support from the entire city. Funds 
were also collected at all Theta Xi parties, 
and the house sposored raffle drawings in
which area merchants donated various 
prizes.
Other houses also contributed to the MS 
campaign. Among them was ATO, who 
raised money through collections at parties 
as well as soliciting contributions from
patrons at the Pittsburgh Penguin hockey 
games.
Dean of Student Affairs Lois Cox said 
that she was quite pleased by the efforts of 
the students. "It's phemomenal; It started 
out with the fraternities, then spread all 
over campus." The administration aided 
students in their efforts but did not take an 
active role in the solicitation of funds.
The administration was helpful in getting 
the students the resorces they needed, but 
the students took the full resposibility for 
achieving their goals. "This kind of thing 
has to be student motivated," she added.
College students have a special interest in 
helping to fight MS, according to SAMS. 
It is a disease which disables more than 200 
young adults every week, most of whom 
are between 20 and 40 years old. The 
disease short circuits the central nervous 
system and has no known cause or cure.
According to Horowitz, Theta Xi will 
continue to sponsor MS fundraising 
activities. Anyone who is interested in 
helping to raise money for MS should call 
the local MS chapter or call 1-800-I-BUST- 
MS.
Senate Passes Decision on $64,285 Surplus
By KEVIN POECKING
Tartan staffwriter
The Student Senate met again last week 
to decide how to use the $64,285 additional 
reserve. Tamal Mukherjee, Funding and 
Recognition Co-Chairman, claimed to have 
discovered a surplus in November, 1985, 
but had no idea of the amount at that point. 
Mr. Mukherjee proposed seven options 
before the Senators and audience. Other 
Senators stated their opinions and proposed 
similar options, but no new options were 
actually considered.
Before the Senate actually voted on the 
options, Peter Cohen, Senate Chairman, 
asked Dean Cox for her opinion. She 
favored spending some of the money and 
putting the rest in an interest bearing 
account within the University system 
which provides interest on lump sums of 
money over a period of time. Dean Cox 
also warned the Senate not to assume that 
the University would pick up certain costs 
students petition for. The final vote was to 
leave part of the money in the current 
system (full liquidity), and invest the rest 
in a high return, low liquidity account. 
The full liquidity amount is to be used as a 
bargaining tool to get funds for something 
the students want, such as improvements 
on the field track which would show the 
University that students are interested in it. 
The vote was 13 to 8 which satisfied the 
two-thirds majority. Tamal Mukherjee, 
along with others, abstained from the vote.
Although the Senate decided how to spend 
the money, the (question still remains as to 
where the money will be spent and how 
much will be spent. This issue will be 
addressed at tonight's Senate meeting.
Other results of the meeting included the 
funding of $2,000 to the Enthusiasm Club 
for the Duquesne game tailgate party, The
Objectivists Club was given funded 
recognition and $636 to promote "school of 
thought" at CMU.
Also, nominations for Educational Affairs 
Council included Mike Scanlon and Greg 
Staresenic. Nominations for Student 
Affairs Council are Toby Ayre, Leslie 
Frank, Nadine Flynn, Seth Kaplan, Jim 
Denburg, and Dana Hausman. There are 
two seats to fill on the Educational Affairs 
Council and four are to be filled on the 
Student Affairs Council. As Dean Cox 
pointed out, last year's appointees either 
left or were kicked out.
Students may be pleased to hear that the 
Student Government Constution is now to 
refer to persons as "he/she" instead of the 
original version of simply "he." Thanks 
for this amendment go to Peter Lonsky and 
those in the Senate who refer to this as the 
"Lonsky Amendment."
photo by
Torrence Hunt, Sr. announces donation to CMU community and media
Hunt Foundation Donates $6.3 Million
photo by Andy Gillespie
Tailgate party a success - see page 3
By AMY STEVENSON
Tartan Staffwriter 
At a press conference held last Tuesday in 
the Hunt Institute for Botanical 
Documentation, the Roy A. Hunt 
Foundation made a 6.3 million dollar 
committment to Carnegie Mellon's capital 
campaign. This donation brings the total 
amount pledged for the capital campaign to 
75 million dollars. Torrence M. Hunt, Sr., 
a senior foundation trustee and a life-time 
trustee of Carnegie Mellon, said that the 
money would help to fund the Institute.
The Hunt family association with the 
university began in the 1920's, when Roy
A. Hunt, president of the Aluminum 
Company of America, became a life-time 
trustee of Carnegie Tech. Some forty years 
later, Mr. Hunt and his wife, Rachel 
McMasters Miller Hunt, donated funding 
for Carnegie Mellon's main library 
building, the Hunt Library. The Hunt 
Institute for Botanical Documentation was 
of special interest to the Hunt Family.
Mrs. Hunt had built one of the world's 
greatest private collections of early 
botanical literature, art and archival 
material. Located on the fifth floor of Hunt 
library, the Institute is a research division 
of Carnegie Mellon. It is recognized 
internationally for its advances in botany 
and history of plant sciences.
At the press conference, Torrence Hunt 
remarked that "the present capital campaign 
is a most appropriate time to establish a 
permanent financial base for the Institute". 
2.5 million dollars of the award is in use 
right now. The balance, issued as a 
challenge grant, is to be distributed over the 
remainder of the capital campaign. Trustee 
Torrence Hunt, Sr. feels this gift will 
"provide the resources necessary for 
permanent ongoing support of the 
Institute's administrative and curatorial 
operations, as well as a basis for expanding 
its research program in botany and the 
history of plant sciences".
continued on page 2

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—The Tartan—September 30, 1986
Human Rights in South Africa
America's human rights efforts in South 
Africa are under attack by Government- 
controlled radio in Johannesburg. An 
editorial on the South African Broadcasting 
Corporation says the US targets the 
Pretoria government with a big-budget 
program while ignoring violations in the 
Soviet Union. It also says the program 
ignores advances for South African blacks.
Members of Europe's common market are 
banding together against terrorism. Interior 
ministers for the 12-nation group are 
meeting in London in emergency session to 
discuss methods to curb terrorism. 
Members say tighter border controls are 
being considered. But one British official 
says it's not likely to do much good.
Possible Trade for 
Daniloff
Our newsman and some Soviet dissidents 
for your accused spy—after we try him. 
That's the pitch US officals say the Reagan 
Administration has made in an attempt to 
resolve the Daniloff affair. Friday's New 
York Times and Washington Post report 
that the Soviets want a reprieve for some of 
their United Nations diplomats ordered out 
of the US too, to end the standoff over 
Daniloff.
Nicholas Daniloff is the American 
journalist the Soviets accuse of spying. 
Gennadiy Zakhrov is a soviet UN employee 
charged with spying in the US. Both men 
are in the custody of their respective 
embassies.
Aquino Leaves U.S.
Back from a US tour she says exceeded all 
her expectations, Philippine President 
Corazon Aquino got a big welcome home 
in Manila and then got back to work. After 
a cabinet meeting, Aquino told reporters 
she's distressed by recent Communist rebel 
flareups. At least 12 people were killed in 
the fighting between the Filipino Military 
and the Rebels during her nine-day absence.
Sidon, Lebanon-Police in Lebanon's 
southern port city of Sidon say Israeli war 
planes rocketed a Palestinian guerrilla base 
in an olive grove on the outskirts of the 
city. One guerrilla was reported killed and 
two injured in the attack. The military 
command in Tel Aviv comfirmed the raid. 
Police say the area is believed to house 
bases for Palestinian Liberation 
Organization chairman Yasser Arafat's 
mainstream fatah guerrilla group.
Fatah Guerrillas and Leftist Moslem 
Militiamen of Sidon's syrain-backed 
popular Liberation army cordoned off the 
base area hours after the attack, turning 
back newsmen and photographers. One 
militia commander, who refused to be 
named, said a militiaman was killed and 
two PLO irregulars were slightly wounded 
in the raid.
Once-a-Month Birth 
Control
A Chicago doctor says a birth-control pill 
that has to be taken only once a month will 
soon be tested on American women. The 
steroid hormone called Anordrin is the key 
indgredient. Dr. Robert Chatterton of 
Northwestern University Medical School
says animal tests have found that it's 100% 
effective. Chinese women have been using 
this "Morning-after pill" for more than a
decade.
Walker Spy Story Continues
The Government has more questions 
about the Walker family spy ring and it 
wants to talk to Arthur Walker about it. 
Officials say his brother John Walker has 
agreed to tell all about the spy ring in a 
plea bargain. But they say polygraph tests 
have raised questions about whether John 
has been telling all he knows-so they want 
to ask Arthur about the spy ring.
1987 Federal Budget Plans
House-Senate conferees don't expect a lot 
of trouble reaching a compromise on a 
1987 Federal Budget Plan. They began 
meeting Friday under a veto threat if the 
House version is adopted. A Senate budget 
writer says the two bills are "85 percent the 
same" already. Administration concerns 
include spending cuts divided between 
military and domestic programs.
Michael Jackson Sought for Killing Spree
Police in Missouri say they hope they're 
closing in on Michael W. Jackson—The 41- 
year-old man being sought in connection 
with three killings since Monday. He's 
been missing in the area of Wright City, 
Misssouri, since then. Jackson's mother 
went on TV Friday night pleading for him 
to surrender.
X-Rays and Cancer
A Harvard University reasearcher is 
offering new estimates on cancers caused by 
ordinary hospital x-rays. Dr. John Evans 
says his study of five areas in Maine 
indicates x-rays may cause up to 600 deaths 
from breast cancer and Leukemia each year. 
An editorial published with the study in 
Friday's New England Journal of Medicine 
says the figure isn't worth worrying about 
too much.Sam Nunn for President ?
Georgia Senator Sam Nunn doesn't want 
to offend anybody— but he's not ready to 
consider a run as Democratic candidate for 
president. Former President Jimmy Carter 
suggested Nunn go for the white house, and 
so have some other people. Nunn says he's 
honored, but he'll wait until after the 
November election to decide what to do. At 
the same time, aides say Nunn is 
considering the possibility of going for 
president more than ever before.
Rehnquist and Scalia 
Sworn In
In a two-part ceremony Friday, William 
Rehnquist and Antonia Scalia took on new 
posts at the Nation's most powerful court. 
Rehnquist is now the 16th chief justice of 
the United States and Scalia has become the 
103rd member of the high court. After 
taking the oath for federal employees, 
Rehnquist said he's praying for "the 
patience, the wisdom and the fortitude" to 
following his predecessors.
Young Doctors on Drugs
A new survey of doctors say more than a 
third of those under age 40 use or have used 
illiegal drugs, mostly cocaine and 
marijuana. The survey was published in the 
New England Journal of Medicine.
LocalNews
City Auditor Fired
PITTSBURGH—The Pittsburgh
Controllers' Office says it has fired an 
auditor in connection with the theft of 22 
city bearer bonds worth $5,000 each. 
Controller Thomas Flaherty says Mary 
Rodwell of Homewood, described as in her 
late forties, was an eight-year employee of 
his office. She has been on sick leave for 
back problems since June 23rd. Authorities 
say the bonds were discovered missing in 
May and payment was stopped. Interest on 
the Bonds would have amounted to $9636 a 
year.
Abortion Protestors Fined
PITTSBURGH—A Pittsburgh Judge has 
ruled that ten anti-abortion protesters in 
Pittsburgh must pay fines as a result of a 
demonstration last month in front of an 
abortion clinic. City Magistrate Lind Cobb 
yesterday found the ten guilty of defiant 
trespass or disorderly conduct during the 
prostest August 16th. Demonstrators 
attached themselves to each other with 
plaster casts to block the doors of a clinic. 
Cobb ordered them to pay fines ranging 
from $100 to $300 dollars.
Change in Pitt Football 
Players Lawsuit
PITTBURGH—An Attorney for a former 
University of Pittsburgh football player 
says his client's lawsuit against two 
teammates incorrrectly accuses them of 
breaking his arm. Twenty-two-year-old 
John Evans filed the suit September 23rd 
against Quintin Jones, Dante Wiley and the 
University. He accused the two men of 
using excessive force during a 1984 practice- 
field scuffle in which Evans' left arm was 
broken. Evans' Lawyer, Samuel 
Pasquarelli, says he erred when he wrote in 
the suit that Wiley and Jones deliberately 
broke Evan's arm. Pasquarelli also says the 
original suit was also incorrect in charging 
that Wiley removed Evans' helment and 
used it to hit Evans in the face.Nancy Reagan Films Drug Abuse in Pittsburgh
PITTSBURGH—First Lady Nancy 
Reagan plans to use a filming session in 
Pittsburgh to speak out against teen-age 
pregnancy and suicide. Mrs. Reagan was in 
town to film a sequel to Public 
Television's "The Chemical People," 
Friday. She arrived at Pittsburgh's WQED 
TV mid-morning Friday. WQED TV 
spokesman Russ Martz says the one-hour 
special will be aired by the country's 
roughly 300 public broadcasting service 
stations on January 26th. As host, Mrs. 
Reagan will introduce and close the 
program, which will be titled "Generation 
at Risk."
Beer Tax to Help Drug Use..
HARRISBURG—Republican Senator 
John Peterson of Venango County has 
proposed increasing tax on beer to fund 
better drug enforcement and prevention 
programs. The bill would enable about 80 
troopers to be added to the state police 
drug/strike force, which currently has about 
60 members. In addition, it would call for 
establishment of a canine unit to help 
troopers better track down drugs. The 
legislation also would expand drug 
education programs in schools and ensure 
that each county has rehabilitation 
programs for adolescents.
...and even more about drugs...
HARRISBURG—Two consumer party 
candidates are advocating removing criminal
penalties for using small quantities 0f 
marijuana and for medically-supervised use 
of heroin and cocaine. The party's 
govematorial candidate,' Heidi Hoover of 
East Norriton, Montgomery county, and 
US Senate Candidate Lance Haver of 
Philadelphia, say the change would help 
eliminate some drug-related crime. Hoover 
and Haver say drug users are the victims 
not criminals, and enforcement efforts 
should be directed at distributors.
More Trouble at 
Three Mile Island
HARRISBURG—Officials at Three Mile 
Island say radiation released from the two 
nuclear reactors during the first six months 
of this year has had no impact on the 
surrounding environment. According to 
results of monitoring by GPU Nuclear 
Corporation, the amount of radiation 
released was less than one percent of the 
one-year safe limit set by the Nuclear 
Regulatory Commission. Ken Maize, a 
spokesman for the Washington-Based 
Union of Concerned Scientists, says 
inherent flaws in the design of the reactors 
at TMI make them unstable and potentially 
dangerous. Maize says TMI needs continual 
monitoring.
Toxic Waste Work Halted
HARRISBURG-Work on toxic waste 
sites in Pennsylvania is stopped because 
the US Senate refused two years ago to 
vote for a bill renewing the superfund. Two 
environmental groups say Pennsylvania's 
sentators—Republicans John Heinz and 
Arlen Specter—must share the blame. The 
Clean Water Action Project and the 
National Campaign Against Toxic Hazards 
say the delay has cost the state an estimated 
67 million dollars in superfund money.
Hunts Donate $6.3 Million
continued from page 1
The Hunt Institute for Botanical 
Documentation plans to use the gift to 
implement an expansion of their existing 
botanical research programs. According to 
Dr. Robert W. Kiger, the institute's director 
and principal research scientist, the 
foundation's donation will enable them to 
"explore further their niche in botany". 
One plan is to build and design a large scale 
computerized North American plant life 
database here at Carnegie Mellon. The 
database, to be used for reference and 
research purposes, will be one of the most 
complex and advanced to date.
The capital campaign, a major fundraising 
project, began last spring. The kickoff was 
April 19th at Carnegie Salutes Carnegie, a 
benefit show at the Civic Arena. At that 
point, the goal was to raise 200 million 
dollars in five years. With the Hunt 
donation, the total has already exceeded 75 
million dollars.
The 75 million total is comprised of 
donations from various sources. The 
greatest amount has come from Carnegie 
Mellon trustees. These trustees include the 
Hunt family, and other individuals and 
foundations. Their donations to date total 
27.6 million dollars. Another 24 millions 
dollars has been raised from friends of the 
university. The remaining 12 million 
dollars was donated by corporations and 
foundations who are not affiliated with the 
trustees.
Dr. Kiger added that the Institute will 
build on the Hunt commitment with further 
fundraising efforts towards the capital 
campaign. Carnegie Mellon President 
Richard Cyert summed up the gratitude of 
the entire university by noting that the 
Hunt family " has supported this university 
generously for many years. Through this 
latest gift, they once again have shown 
their dedication to the long-term well-being 
of Hunt Institute and Carnegie Mellon 
University."

---------------------------------------------------

September 30, 1986—The Tartan—Page 3
Services for Handicapped Now Available on Campus
By JEAN COOKSEY 
Tartan Stafjwriter
In late July of this year, Handicapped 
Services for CMU became a new 
department under the Office of Federal 
Compliance. The purpose of the new 
department is two-fold: making the
university more accomodating for current 
handicapped students, while also improving 
the school's image in order to increase 
enrollment and acceptance of future 
handicapped students.
At present, Handicapped Services is a 
modest operation, employing only one 
person: Phil Kragnes, the originator and 
current director, who knows of roadblocks 
for handicapped students firsthand. Phil has 
been blind since his senior year in high 
school. He is a second-semester junior 
who's majoring in psychology. Phil gets 
help from other people in the office: his 
boss, Dr. Linda G. B instock, Director of 
the Office of Federal Compliance, Everett 
Tademy, Assistant Director for Minority 
Programs, Bob West, legal assistant for the 
office, and Pat Miller, Administrative 
Assistant. Much of the brain power is left 
to Phil, though, who has spent his time 
quite productively.
Phil is currently working on five different 
projects to aid handicapped students: 
curbing accessibility problems, 
coordinating an emergency medical system 
for physically handicapped students, 
organizing an on-call reader list for the 
visually impaired, planning an annual 
"Handicapped Awareness Week", and 
installing a Visually Impaired Computing 
Center (VICC) in Hunt Library.
Accessibility problems include poor 
placement of ramps on campus and a lack 
of automatic doors. These are basic 
constraints that block mobility for the 
physically impaired students. The 
^nrr^ncy medical system is more
advanced. It would enable physically 
handicapped students to have quick, safe 
transportation to remote spots on campus 
or medical facilities when elevators are 
broken.
A shortage of volunteer readers for the 
visually impaired concerns Phil most at the 
moment He desperately needs students, 
staff, and alumni to offer their time and 
eyes to help the visually impaired on 
campus. At present, only four volunteers 
are working, none of which are students. 
Services include helping them finish 
homework, translate papers and 
assignments, take exams, go shopping, or 
other daily activities. "I really need student 
volunteers," Phil notes. To sign up as an 
on-call reader, contact Phil at X3746, in 
MM409.
The "Handicapped Awareness Week" will 
hopefully arrive in the spring. Its purpose, 
Phil says, is to "inform staff, 
administration, and students of the types of 
handicaps we do have on campus, and what 
the students can do to be more 
accomodating." He would also like to 
increase positive interaction between the 
handicapped students and others. In 
addition, Phil intends to publish a 
complimentary pamphlet that will 
"hopefully better inform students that help 
is available."
The most time-consuming and costly 
project is the creation and installment of 
the Visually Impaired Computing Center 
(VICC). VICC will include a "voice- 
synthesized computer with a braille printer, 
a large display monitor, a closed circuit 
scanning device for printed material, and a 
digital text scanner " Phil estimates the 
cost at roughly $30,000 for the entire 
center. Thomas Michalak, Associate Vice 
President for Academic Services, Director, 
University Libraries, has already donated 
basement space near the Audio/Visual
Department for the Center. John Stuckey, 
of the H&SS Dean's Office, has donated a 
25-inch large display monitor, also.
Phil’s plans for making the university 
more competitive for handicapped students 
have their practical problems, though. 
Because the new Department has no budget, 
Phil must wade through large amounts of 
red tape before he can execute anything. He 
outlines a proposal for the Office of Federal 
Compliance, which then must go through 
Business Affairs or the Capital Budget 
Board for final approval.
Phil retains a healthy optimism in light 
of all this: "It's moving slowly, but at
least it's moving. Every little bit helps." 
Students and others wishing to donate their 
services should contact Phil at X3746, in 
Margaret Morrison rm. 409, the Office of 
Federal Compliance.
photo by Ruth Matsumura
Even the dog had a good time!
Just when you thought it was safe to go back to bed.
It's another typical night of studying. 
Tired, baffled, you light the wrong end of 
your 237th cigarette of the day and spill 
your twelfth can of warm, flat Mountain 
Dew all over your design
project/combinatorics homework/C
program. At least I do. Suddenly, four 
people barge into the room, not that it 
would take much to frighten you at this 
point anyways. Still, you run into the 
closet, screaming, as they yell "Tuck-in 
time! Get in bed." Too paralyzed with 
fear to argue, you instantly jump into bed. 
One person hands you a stuffed animal 
while warm hands massage your aching 
brains. You barely finish the milk and 
cookies that they brought, when you slip 
comfortably into a deep slumber, and a 
settling round of nightmares about getting 
front-row seats to the Bangles and being 
forced to go. Another victim of... The 
Great Tuck-ins.
Tuck-ins are a service offered by Alpha 
Phi Omega to raise money for a charity 
while at the same time increasing the 
morale of the campus community, and just 
generally embarrassing lots of people in 
their jammies. Send a tuck-in to anyone 
in need of a good nights sleep - your friend, 
your roommate, or yourself. Sign ups will 
be taken October 14 and 15,9-3:30 in front 
of Doherty (inside Baker in the event of 
rain) and 4-7 in Morewood Lobby. The 
tuck-ins will be delivered on October 20 
and 21 from 10-12.
Alpha Phi Omega (APO) is a national 
coed service fraternity with over 500 
chapters. Projects range from stuffing 
freshman packets and teaching Scouts to 
swim, to publishing the student directory 
and selling concessions at football games. 
Everyone is encouraged to participate in 
any of Alpha Phi Omega's events each 
semester.
photo by Ruth Matsumura
lley, what’s on my nose?
photo by Ruth Matsumura
Happy, plaid-clad students gather for Saturday's Tailgate Party
ATTENTION: 
CMU Undergraduate 
Students Seeking On- 
Campus Jobs
On-campus job 
opportunities are 
available.
Interested students should 
contact the Financial Aid 
Office at ext. 2068 and 
make an appointment to 
see Barbarla Gigliotti.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—The Tartan—September 30, 1986
Steidel Named Director of AdmissionsSteelworkers Receive CMU Scholarships
By ERIC W. LEULIETTE
Tartan Staffwriter
The Camegie-Mellon Administration has 
recently appointed a 1978 CMU graduate to 
the position of Director of Admissions. 
Michael A. Steidel, who in an interview 
gleefully stated, "I love Carnegie Mellon," 
has worked in many positions at the 
Admissions Office for nearly the past 
twelve years. As an undergraduate, 
admissions was his "home away from 
home."
Steidel feels the most unfortunate part of 
the admissions staffs job is that they do 
not "get a chance to interact with students 
they thought were neat once we've brought 
them in." He enjoys hearing from students 
he has worked with during the admissions 
process. Knowing how Tartan readers are 
doing is important to him.
CMU was not the Allentown native's 
first choice. The admissions staff that 
visited his hometown when he was in high 
school left a marked impression on him. 
From their presentation, Steidel thought 
CMU "sounded like a place I wanted to be." 
Soon, he was in Pittsburgh for the first 
time on a sleeping bag weekend. He
experienced his first CMU frat party that 
weekend.
He came intending to major in chemistry 
but ended up with a double major in 
chemistry and Administration and 
Management Science (a forerunner of the 
current Industrial Management major). "It 
certainly is the technical background that I 
appreciate," says the new director. Still, 
the gregarious Steidel is quick to point out 
that he relishes working with people.
His preference for working with people 
is clear from his undergraduate years. His 
activities included Student Senate, the 
Student Advisory Council for Chemistry, 
the Coalition through Christian Outreach, 
and, naturally, the Admissions Office.
Steidel does not think working at his old 
alma mater has limited him. "I feel very 
fortunate to have seen the process inside- 
out," he adds. His work-study job involved 
clerical work at admissions. From there 
Steidel became a summer programs 
counselor. Joining the staff offically in 
1978, in four years he advanced to 
Associate Director. "Being a student, an 
alumni...strengthens. I feel lucky."
Michael Steidel loves his job.
Music
SALE...
CASSETTES and RECORDS.
MAJOR LABELS 
TOP ARTISTS
AFFORDABLE PRICES 
Something for Everyone
Pop, Rock, Folk, Jazz and Classics
On Sale for Limited Time 
Shop Early for Best Selection
SEPTEMBER 29 
THRU
t^i OCTOBER 11
emu bcckstcreIN BAKER HALL
By JOSH RUBEN
Tartan Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon has awarded scholarships 
to five unemployed steelworkers through 
the School of Urban and Public Affairs 
(SUPA).
The new scholarships will be awarded 
anually and will cover full tuition estimated 
at $11,000. The program was established 
to aid displaced workers of local steel and
Plaid Supremacy Tailgate Party
By ERIC W. LEULIETTE
Tartan staffwriter
One of the newest organizations to hit 
campus, the Enthusiasm Committee, 
wrapped up a series of four meetings on 
Wednesday to make final plans for 
Saturday's Tailgate Party before the 
Duquesne football game. Still, committee 
head Jim Denburg insists that "Events 
aren't our main thing. This is just a kick 
off."
The current president of the Student 
Senate hopes to continue the Enthusiasm 
Committee and its Plaid is Bad spirit 
beyond tailgate parties. "We are here to 
help other organizations with events." 
Eventually, he even hopes to include 
faculty members who feel CMU has an 
enthusiasm void.
The committee effectively organized the 
party, scheduled for 12:30 p.m. Saturday, 
September 27, on the IM field. The group 
was able to enlist the help of University 
Dining Services, Earl Birdy of Intramurals, 
Student Affairs, the cheerleaders, and the 
Kiltie Band.
General funding of $2000 for the party 
was acquired last week from the Student 
Senate. Dean Brad Walter of Student 
Affairs provided money for "Plaid is Bad" T- 
shirts. In addition, Alumni Relations was 
helpful in paying for volleyball nets and 
other assistance.
steel-related industries. Recipients will ^ 
enrolled in the school's one-year Master of 
Public Management Program (MPM).
Dean of SUPA, Alfred Blumstein, said 
"The collapse of the steel industry has 
seriously injured the Western Pennsylvania 
community. Carnegie Mellon is a 
concerned part of that community and 
education is one way we can help."
Blumstein added, "Our MPM program i$ 
designed to boost people in mid-career or to 
help mature people establish new careers 
related to the problems of the public sector 
In this way, our help will benefit not only 
displaced steelworkers, but the entire 
communty."
The five recipients are: Robert L. 
Anderson of Homestead, Pa. He worked 
on blast furnaces and coke ovens at U.S. 
Steel and Jones & Laughlin from 1975 to 
1981 when he was laid off. Daniel J, 
Askin from Lower Burrell, Pa. He has a 
degree in philosophy but found few 
teaching opportunities, so he started work 
as a laborer at Edgewater Steel Corp. in • 
1978. He has been a self-employed 
plumber/pipefitter since he was laid off in 
1982. Richard P. Carland of Industry, 
Pa. He worked in the Crucible Steel 
Division of Colt Industries from 1972 until 
he was laid off in 1981. He then joined the 
Midland Center for Career Development 
which was established by steel workers 
union to help those who were out of work 
when the Cruciable plant closed. David 
Chabel of Tarentum, Pa. He was em­
ployed at ALCOA's Logans Ferry Works 
from 1979 to May 1986. Dean Rinella 
of White Oak, Pa. He started in 1968 as a 
labor group leader in U.S. Steel's Duquesne 
Works. He went through a series of jobs 
with U.S. Steel ending up in 1983 when he 
was laid off from his job as Relief 
Assistant General Foreman At the National 
Tube Works in McKeesport, Pa.
Freshmen, Sophmores, and Juniors:
—11puli
fccott1
FOR: Students majoring or double majoring inIndustrial Management or Economics DUE: Monday October 13,1986IN: GSÌA Room 206 (IM/Econ Office)
Freshmen, Sophmores, and Juniors may submit 
a 1 page resume to be distributed at the BOC.
Mark your calendar for Monday November 17, 
the day of the Business Opportunities 
Conference (BOC) to be held in Skibo Ballroom.

---------------------------------------------------

September 30, 1986—The Tartan—Page 5
creeks Get stricter Rules CMU Cycling Club Hopes to Reform
Bv KAREN WOODILA
Tartan Staffer iter
A new, stricter fraternity party pohcy 
thored by Dean of Student Affairs Braden 
Walter and Greek Advisor Ron Campana 
was distributed to all fraternities on Friday,
September 19.
The new policy prohibits music and
alcohol outside. Each fraternity president 
and person in charge of music are now held 
directly responsible for any violations. 
They may be arrested by campus or 
Pittsburgh police. The Inter-Fraternity 
Council will fine houses who violate this 
policy. There were no serious violations 
during the first weekend the policy was in 
effect.
"This policy is in response to general 
concerns, complaints of noise from Devon 
Road residents, local police and concerns 
within the administration," said Campana.
"If we [Fraternities] police ourselves and 
follow the rules, we will have the 
opportunity to shape our destinies. We're 
going to help as much as we can."
Under the new policy, a campus police 
officer will patrol the Fraternity Quadrangle 
area on weekend nights. The University 
and IFC fines will pay for the extra officer. 
"The officer is there not just to enforce the 
new policy, but to help fraternities 
maintain their CMU students-only door 
policies," Campana said. "And, it’s always 
nice to have an authority figure around who 
will help out in an advisory role."
Greek members continue to react to the 
administrations latest stance. Last 
Wednesday the Inter-Fraternity Council 
created Rush, Noise and Parties 
committees. Members from every 
fraternity can serve on any committee. 
"The biggest question for fraternities is 
Where is our future'," Inter-Fraternity 
Council President Tom Bonvissuto said. 
"We've got to start looking at different 
options now."
And in other Greek news: The Council of 
Fraternity Presidents (CFP), an advisory 
board of every CMU fraternity president, 
decided last Wednesday to create the 
Council of Alumni Presidents (CAP), 
composed of Alumni Presidents from each 
house. An undergraduate will assist the 
CFP and CAP.
The CFP Executive Council will visit , 
every house during November to find out 
what fraternity members think about CMU 
Greek life. "I've been preaching to the 
converted," said CFP President Scott 
Hines. "All the fraternity presidents agree 
that the CFP policies are the right thing to 
do, but as their words get dispersed within 
the fraternities, a lot is lost in translation. 
We want to reach all members and improve 
congruency in policies and attitudes."
President Cyert reaffirmed his 
committment to the CMU Greek system 
during a meeting with Hines on Friday. 
Cyert said that the changes made in 
alcohol and noise policies will continue. 
He stressed strong general supervision and 
lots of programs without alcohol," Hines 
said. "He told me that Greeks are an 
integral and responsible part of the 
university, and having no Greek system 
would severely detract from the quality of 
life at CMU." Cyert will talk to Fraternity 
Presidents on October 22.
Due to its controversial nature, the CRIME AND INCIDENT 
REPORT will not appear in 
Ws issue of The Tartan»However, in order to fulfill the "Absolute Minimum Muckraking and Yellow Journalism” policy, it will begin again next week as a bi-weekly feature. We apolo­gize for any inconveniences suffered by our devoted reading public.
By ERIC W. LEULIETTE
Tartan staffwriter
To some there is no greater thrill than to 
sit atop a bicycle as twenty-five miles of 
scenery breezes by. Though Pittsburgh 
offers many places for cyclists to ride or 
race, some CMU riders feel an opportunity 
is being missed.
Last year CMU had "a sort of de facto 
cycling club," according to Richard Siegel, 
who has hopes of reviving the club this 
semester. The club did not fully emerge 
from its winter hibernation last year. Also, 
many club members graduated to the ranks 
of CMU alumni.
Bikes in search of a club
Initially, the club would be an informal 
network to allow cyclists to ride together. 
Riding in groups is a good defensive 
technique (which is helpful on Pittsburgh 
streets). Also, it allows cyclists to explore
new areas. "There are a lot of good places 
to ride in Pittsburgh, but a lot of people 
don’t know about them," comments 
graduate student Suranne Robinson. 
Racing out of Philiadelphia, Robinson 
would like to see more women taking up 
the sport in Pittsburgh and hopes that a 
CMU cycling club would spark more 
interest.
Siegel hopes that interested cyclists will 
contact him to allow him to form a 
schedule when people can ride. Eventually, 
he hopes that a cycling club will be asking 
the Student Senate for funding.New Pittsburgh Police Zones Created
By DRUE MILLER
Tartan News Editor
Pittsburgh's Police force will soon 
undergo a massive reorganizination, in 
which all nine existing stationhouses will 
be merged into five zones. Margaret Rizza, 
spokesperson for the Department of Public 
Safety, feels that the move is a wise one 
and claims that the original idea of a merger 
came about from an evaluation of the force 
by Public Safety Director John Norton and 
both the Chief and Assistant Chief of 
Police.
While limiting the number of operating 
stationhouses, Rizza says that the 
manpower will actually be increased; 40 
more officers will be assigned to patrol 
duties. Also,., commanding officers 
previously were at the stationhouses 9-5 
weekdays only. The new plan allows for 
24 hour-a-day command levels. Rizza 
doesn’t feel that the city will be losing any 
of its police protection, because officers 
routinely respond to calls from patrol and 
not the stationhouse.
Under the plan, precincts #4 (Oakland) 
and #6 (Shadyside/Squirrel Hill) will be 
combined to form Zone E. The new unit 
will operate out of the existing #6 station 
house in Shadyside. #1 and #2 (downtown 
and the Hill District) will become Zone A, 
#7 and #8 (areas south of the Monongahela 
River) will make up Zone C, and #3 and 
#5 (East Liberty , Lawrenceville, and other 
East End neighborhoods) will be Zone D. 
#9, the North Side, is the only area that is 
not merging with any others.
CMU LAW CLUB presentsTHE FIRST DEBATE
YOU CHOOSE THE TOPIC, WE'LL REACH THE VERDICT.
? ABORTION
? NUCLEAR WAR
? S.E.I
? APARTHEID
? FORGEIGN POLICY
? Other
Thanks! Please drop off at Skibo 
Information Desk by October 10™
Funded by Student Activities F*

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—The Tartan—September 30,1986
Minutes of the Student Senate, 
September 26, 1986
Meeting called to order 7:10pm.
Present: Ayre, Bollinger, Cohen, Flynn, 
Frank, Friedland, Giles, Greenberg A, 
Hausman, Jagerski, Kaplan, Kombrek, 
Larson, Levy, Lonsky, McDonnell, 
Mukherjee. Robitshek, Rocher, Scanlon, 
Shipley, Stachura, Staresinic.
Ex-officio members: Dean Cox,
Dean Walter, Denburg, DeLeon, Chu. 
Absent: Herron, Patnaik.
Ex-officio members:
Audience Participation: none.
Dean Walter: no report 
Dean Cox: Need nominations for student 
seats on Ed. Affairs and Student Affairs 
committees of the Faculty Senate. The 
Senate voted unanimously that the River 
City Brass Band be allowed to perform 
official CMU songs.
President:Jim Denburg Tailgate party 
is Sat. at 12:30 on the IM field. Wrote 
article for today's Tartan. Enthusiam 
Committee meets in 112 Skibo at 9:30. 
SDC:Leanne Chu The new area 
coordinators are: Mary Beth Angotti - 
Mudge/on-campus apt., Teresa Campbell - 
More wood Gardens, David O'Brien - Hill, 
Linda Safat - Oakland/Shady side.
IFC: Sorority Rush is over. Fraternity 
rush is over Friday. Looking for new IFC 
rep.
Chairman :Peter Cohen There are seats 
open in CIT, GSIA and CFA. Office hours 
will be held outside. Bring the Senate sign 
with you. Also, sign in for office hours.
If you want to listen to messages, learn 
how to save them.
Treasurer:Fred DeLeon I'm looking 
for an assistant treasurer.
Academic Affairs: Give us your
specific complaint on paper with your 
name and number and we will try to rectify 
it.
Campus Affairs: Were looking into:
Xerox fees, lack of lighting on campus,
Military Early-Warning Agreement Reached in Stockholm
By VUAY REDDY
Tartan Contributing Editor
NATO and Warsaw Pact negotiators 
have agreed in Stockholm to a plan 
whereby each military block will give 
the other side advance warning on all 
large scale military exercises conducted 
in Europe.
The agreement allows foreign 
inspection of each other’s military 
maneuvers to guarantee that the 
maneuvers are not a smoke screen for a 
surprise attack. Although the agreement 
does not reduce the number of weapons 
in Europe, it does reduce the chance that 
a misunderstanding about a country's 
military intentions will cause a war.
The blocks will provide each other with 
advanced information concerning all 
troop concentrations or movements that 
involve 13,000 or more soldiers or 300
tanks. If more than 17,000 are involved,ifthat nation must invite the other nations
to send observers.
Each nation may send up to two
observers, who will be provided with 
accurate maps, daily briefings and 
observation equipment and be allowed to 
"visit some units and communicate with 
commanders and troops in order to allow 
observers to confirm that a notified activity 
is nonthreatening in character."
A commanding officer can test the 
readiness of his troops by calling an alert 
without advance notice but if more than
13.000 troops are put on alert for more 
than 72 hours, foreign observers must be 
invited. One year notice is required for any 
troop exercises that involve between
40.000 and 75,000 troops.
In addition, detailed information about the 
number of troops, tanks and artillery 
involved must be made available 42 days 
before the exercise begins along with the 
exact location and purpose of maneuvers. 
This agreement does not cover sea and air 
maneuvers.
NATO insisted and got provision for snap 
inspections to ensure that countries do not 
cheat. Each nation is required to submit to 
three snap inspections and is allowed to
conduct one inspection. A surprise 
inspection may not be conducted by any 
of its military allies.
Thirty-five nations were involved in 
The Conference on Confidence and 
Security Building Measures and 
Disarmament in Europe, including all 
members of the Warsaw Pact, NATO, 
and all independent European nations 
except Albania. This plan should reduce 
tensions by allowing countries to 
confirm that the other side is not 
planning an attack.
Western diplomats believe that this 
agreement will limit the Soviet Union’s 
ability to bully other East European 
counties like they did to Poland at the 
height of the Solidarity trade union's 
power in 1981. Western military 
sources believe that this will create a 
more stable military atmosphere in 
Europe by allowing each side to get a 
detailed picture of the training, 
maneuvers and tactics of the other side, 
and a standard by which they can spot 
anything unusual.
regulating use of tennis courts and track 
problems.
Funding & Recognition: The
Enthusiasm Committee asked for $2000.00 
concerning the Tailgate party of Sept. 27. 
Motion passed. Senate is asking $270.00 
to join AAUS. Motion passed.
Objectivist Club asked for funded status. 
Motion passes. Objectivist Club asked for 
$636.00 , a new club allocation. Motion 
passed.
Public Relations: Ad was in the Tartan 
and a letter will be sent to RAs to please 
post it. Float - Homecoming, Sat. Oct. 18. 
Design contest for logo to go with "The 
Link." Award will be $50,00.
Old Business: Chairman Cohen is
nominated to go on trip for student 
government conference, motion passes - 
Senator Cohen goes. Senator Greenbergs'
PREPARE YOURSELF FOR A SUCCESSFUL LIFE IN AN INTERNATIONAL AND INTERDEPENDENT WORLD!
WE CAN HELP YOU!
COME TO THE:
OFFICE FOR INTERNATIONAL 
EDUCATION
19 WARNER HALL, X7595
ATTENTION JUNIORS, 
SENIORS, GRAD STUDENTS!
Apply for a Kaufmann's credit card 
on Monday, October 6, 
from 10:00am - 4:00 pm 
in the student union.
FREE GIFT to all applicants completing a Kaufmann's charge application.
motion was removed from the table. 
Senator Scanlon brought up resolution to 
ammend the proposed ammendment. 
Resolution passed. The motion now 
states: We, the Student Senate, hereby 
advocate the position of the campus wide 
referendum that the university divest 
immediately from those companies that 
conduct business in South Africa which are 
not Sullivan signatories. Motion passed. 
Senator Lonskys' motion was removed 
from the table. The motion states: All 
pronoun use which is gender specific which 
does not mention both genders must be 
changed to include both genders. Motion 
passed. Senator Greenberg brought up the 
resolution tabled last week. The resolution 
states: Senate hereby advocates the position 
of the campus wide referendum that the 
university divestimmediately from those
companies which are non-Sullivan 
signatories to follow up by investigating 
the Sullivan signatories who claim to be 
these companies which do not strictly 
comply with these principles. Motion 
failed.
New Business: Debate was held on what 
to do with the Activities Fee additional 
reserve. It was finally decided to leave part 
of it in the current system (full liquidity) 
and use this portion as a bargaining tool to 
get funds for something that benefits the 
students, and invest the rest in a high 
return, low liquidity option. How much to 
invest has not been decided. Senator 
Greenberg brought up a motion to redo the 
track. Motion tabled for a week.
Meeting Adjourned 9:20pm.
Respectfully submitted,
KD
TAKE
ANEW
PERSPECTIVE
HEWLETT
PACKARD
- for a fresh look from a new angle It's the whole basis 
of creativity Of insight Like what you see here. 
Take another look from another perspective and 
you can tell what it is ¦ At Hewlett-Packard, we re 
constantly considering things You might say we're 
always a new company That's why we enjoy a con 
stant flow of creativity That's why we enjoy a lead­
ership position in the marketplace. ¦ We're the 
kind of company that's perfect for a graduate with 
the courage to sec things differently ¦ Consider 
us today It could make all the difference 
¦ Om Camput. October 9. 1986
Technical Opportunities Conference 
Skibo 10:00 a.m. — 4:00 p.m.

---------------------------------------------------

FINALLY A FREE FLIGHT PLAN JUST FOR STUDENTS.
YOU WONT GET A BREAK UKE THISONCE YOITRE OUT INTHE REAL WORLD.
INTRODUCING COLLEGIATE FUGHTBANK, FROM 
CONTINENTAL AND NEW YORK AIR.If you’re a full-time student at an accredited college or uni' versity you can join our Collegiate FlightBankf” You’ll receive a memoership card and number that will allow you to get 10% off Continental and New York Air’s already low fates. In addition, you’ll get a one-time certificate good for $25 off any domestic roundtrip flight. Plus, you’ll be able to earn trips to places like Florida, Denver, Los Angeles, even London and the South Pacific. Because every time you fly you’ll earn mile- age towards a free trip. And if you sign up now you’ll also receive 3 free issues of BusinessWeek Careers magazine.
Or the grand prize, for the number one student referral champion in the nation: a Porsche and one year of unlimited coach air travel.And how do you get to be the referral champion? Just sign up as many friends as possible, and make sure your member" snip number is on their application. In order to be eligible for any prize you and your referrals must sign up before 12/31/86 and each referral must fly 3 segments on Continental or New York Air before 6/15/87. And you’ll not only get credit for the enrollment, you’ll also get 500 bonus miles.So cut the coupon, and send it in now. Be sure to include your current full time student ID number. That way it’ll only cost you $10 for one year ($15 after 12/31/86) and $40 for four years ($60 after 12/31/86). Your membership kit, including referral forms, will arrive in 3 to 4 weeks. If you have a credit card, you can call us at 1-800-255-4321 and enroll even fester.Now more than ever it pays to stay in school.
r
Introducing Collegiate FlightBankr Earn free trips to New York, San Francisco, Boston, Washing­
ton, D.C., Miami, Chicago, or Denver. Plus, Australia, Honolulu, London, and Mexico. All told,74 cities worldwide.
SIGN UP YOUR FRIENDS AND EARN A PORSCHE.But what’s more, for the 10 students on every campus who enroll the most active student flyers from their college there are some great rewards: 1 free trip wherever Continental or New York Air flies in the mainland U.S., Mexico or Canada.
SIGN ME UP NOW! (Please print nr type) ? 1 Year ($10) ? 2 Years ($20) ? 3 Years ($30) ? 4 Years ($40)
Must he submitted K 12/31/86.
Name— 
College-
Date of Birth—.
.Address-
Permanent Address_
.Zip-
-Zip-
Full time student ID #_.Year irf Graduation.
$________ ? Check/Money Order Enclosed PLEASE DON’T SEND CASH? American Express ? Visa ? MasterCard ? Diner’s Club
Account Number________________________________________________Expiration Date---------------
Signature X-------------------———---—------------------------------------------------------
FOR MEMBERSHIP APPLICANTS UNDER THE AGE OF 18: The undersigned is the parent/ guardian the membership applicant named hertxn, and 1 consent to his/her participation in the Collegiate FlightBank program.
Signature X--------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Send this coupon to: Collegiate RightBank PO. Box 297847 Houston, TX 77297761, Gmiplete terms and conditions of profani will accompany membership kit. ________________l
CONTINENTAL <5 NEW YORK AIR
Some blackout periods apply ft» discount travel and reward redempti<*v Complete terms and conditions erf program will accompany membership kit. Certain restrictions apply. Cur.ent f year of membership. T> earn any prize a minimum of 12 referrals is required. All referral award winners will be announced by 8/1/87.10% discount applies to mainland U.S. travel only ® 
Students must be between ages 16 and 25. Registration and taxes are the responsibility of the award recipient.
membership kit. Certain restrictions apply. Cur.ent full time student status required for each“ 1986 Continental Air Lines, Inc.

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial
Conservativism on 
Campus
In the 1960's, the counter-culture was a very 
vocal, visible group of liberal/radical college 
kids. Throughout the Vietnam War, they got 
people thinking, talking and even fighting.These days, it's good ol', All-American, Mom’s apple pie and Ronald Reagan 
conservativism that's forming the subversive 
culture on college campuses, gaining 
momentum all the way.Back then, it was long hair, bare feet, faded 
jeans and underground newspapers. Now it's button-down oxford cloths, Topsiders, "stone- 
washed" denim and The Wall Street Journal. 
But the point here is more than idealization of 
the past, and the differences between the two sub-cultures runs deeper than the style of 
clothes. In the sixties there was a good cause to 
fight. Ending our involvement in the Vietnam 
War was a goal which drew people together, 
particularly people who didn't want to sling an 
M-16 over their shoulder and trod off to 
Indochina. What are the goals that unite the 
conservative movement? Ending drug abuse. 
Ridding society of pornography. Getting a 
good job. Wow.
Regardless of which side of the political 
spectrum you fall on, if you want to have a 
well-informed opinion and be vocal about it, 
more power to you. But beware of a movement 
whose primary goal is to save people from 
their own vices. Trying to change human 
nature might not be the most realistic or 
profitable goal to strive for.
Senate Surplus: 
The $64,000 Question
Student Senate has $64,000 in a reserve fund. 
This fact brings mixed blessings along with it. 
The good part is that Senate now has an 
opportunity to contribute more money to the 
campus in any number of ways. Three options 
in particular present themselves: 1) Senate 
could spend money all at once on a sizable 
project, 2) they could allocate more money to 
clubs for the next few years, not having to 
worry about a deficit, or 3) they could also 
make token contributions to projects financed 
by the administration as a means of 
demonstrating their support of these projects. 
The track team suggested just such a 
contribution to the construction of an all-eather 
track. A good suggestion. The current trend in 
Senate indicates that a compromise will 
probably be reached by saving some of the 
money and spending some. Probably a wise, 
and certainly a prudent course of action.
The flip side of the reserve fund coin, 
however, presents the question of why this 
money was allowed to accumulate in the first 
place. When the fund was first reported last 
spring, the amount was in excess of $92,000. 
That is over 25% of the annual budget with 
which Student Senate works. The sum is lower 
now because Senate allocated more money that 
ever to clubs, and covered the deficit with the 
reserve. Having a reserve fund to cover deficits 
is OK, but having $92,000 or even $64,000 
floating around is exhorbitant. More careful 
oversight of the activities fee would seem to be 
in order. This could have three potentially 
desirable effects: 1) it would prevent such large 
sums of money from accumulating, 2) it would 
allow Senate to anticipate problems, so that 
they wouldn't need a reserve fund to cover 
them, and 3) it would prevent Senate from 
facing dilemmas like the present one, of what 
to do with $64,000.
Tailgate Party: 
A Huge Success
The Tartan wishes to congratulate the 
organizers of the tailgate party for Saturday s 
football home opener against Duquesne. It was 
not only a great idea, but a huge success. 
Attendance at the game was approximately 
4,000 and easily half that number attended the 
tailgate party. Everyone who attended will 
agree that it was money well-spent. Let's hope 
we see more events like this in the future.
Crime Report Reflects Rampant Depravity
Editor:
Crime and Incident Re­
port—Marvelous! I can't get 
enough of it. In between issues of 
the venerable Weekly World 
News ("ALIENS STOLE MY 
BLOWFISH"—imagine!), the 
Crime and Incident Report keeps 
me informed about the rampant 
depravity erupting under our very 
noses.
I've loved the Crime and 
Incident Report ever since the 
first time I laid eyes on it, but 
when I saw the latest CIR I fell 
in love all over again. It's the 
new crime vocabulary you've 
implemented—such 
journalism—I'm overcome with 
admiration.
Allow me to quote form the 
passage that won my heart: "9/12 
approximately 9 p.m. 
BURGLARY A room in Mudge 
was broken into. The actor 
entered through a window facing 
5th Ave."
At first I thought it was merely 
a serendipitous error, but no; the 
ensuing scum-busting reports 
featured that same wondrous 
phrase. I was delighted.
It is well-known that actors, 
with their enormous amounts of 
free time (an8:30 a.m. -11:30 
p.m. schedule? Easy!) have 
nothing better to do than rob, 
assault and viciously gate-crash 
the CMU community. No doubt 
those perverted individuals asking 
about "people who did not exist" 
in front of Henderson were actors, 
too. They're notorious for their 
schizoid dealings with suspicious 
imaginary individuals (that pinko-
freakhead Hamlet, for example). 
My personal theory is that the 
actors responsible for that 
particular assault on democracy 
were operating in conjunction 
with some sort of nefarious 
Philosophy majors, hence the 
subversive existential nature of 
die offence.
Everybody knows that actors are 
as stupid as they are idle and 
depraved, so no doubt they are 
being assisted by crime engineers, 
designers and even architects.
I think CMU stands for Crime- 
Mad University, and I'm glad The 
Tartan has finally shed the bright 
light of journalistic truth on the
deadly crime virus that is 
infecting our once noble campus.
Let's hope that the Crime and 
Incident Report continues to 
expose criminals in our midst. I 
myself would start investigating 
the notorious SUPA (a/k/a 
Suspicious Underworld Perverts 
of America) Lounge. What a nest 
of nefarity that is!
More Power To Ya, campers. 
You have my undying love and 
effusive admiration. I know Ed 
Anger would be proud. Let's all 
take a bite out of crime. When are 
you going to print pictures?
Elissa Jiji
Directing '89
Crime Report Commended
Editor:
I'm glad to see that The Tartan 
includes a "Crime and Incident 
Report." This column potentially 
increases awareness within the 
campus community about events 
which would otherwise go 
unnoticed and provides a realistic 
view of the safety of the campus.
I am somewhat bothered, 
however, by inconsistencies in 
the descriptions of various 
persons who are either involved 
in or affected by theses incidents.
The wording of the Crime 
and Incident Report does not 
originate with the Tartan. 
The news editor or a 
member of her staff draws 
the wording of the report 
directly from the reports at 
Campus Security. "Actor” in
Many descriptions are no more 
specific than "person," while 
others use terms such as "male," 
"female," "girl," and "black." The 
terms "boy" and "white" are 
seldom, if ever, used.
Unless there are specific reasons 
for these differences, I feel that 
Ihere should be more con-sistency
in the descriptions.
Rick Busdiecker 
Applied Math, '87 
Robotics Institute 
Research Staff
this instance is apparently 
used in place of 
"perpetrator." The Tartan 
apologizes if we have 
offended actors or any other 
group, but for authenticity's 
sake, we prefer not to alter 
the reports. -Ed.

---------------------------------------------------

î
CampusStudent Criticizes Acceptance of Drugs on
By JACK L. POLLER
Tartan Contributing Editor 
Over the past two weeks, there has been an 
increased interest in the drug problem 
because of the Presidential declaration of a 
war on drugs. Much has been said and
Column
written on drugs; most in favor. What is 
suprising, however, is the amount of total 
acceptance of drugs on the Carnegie Mellon 
Campus. While at a fraternity party last 
weekend, I commented to a fellow student 
on how tired I was. She offered me speed. 
Recently, two CMU students were 
hospitalized after taking LSD.
The Student Union: "What is there to 
say? A couple of freshmen go overboard, 
and the entire campus, not to mention the 
local community, goes crazy. " Why does 
the Union consider taking LSD going 
overboard. It is more like commiting 
oneself to having a frontal lobotomy. LSD 
is a very powerful, mind altering drug. 
Taking LSD causes extreme changes in the 
body's chemistry. LSD never leaves the 
body, so one is always under its influence. 
People on acid kill themselves, and others. 
They dismember themselves and do not feel 
the pain. LSD is not safe.
Granted, LSD is not a very common drug 
on the CMU campus. But what about 
marijuana. Marijuana is a common drug on 
campus. Many people openly use it and
sell it. THC, the active ingredient in 
marijuana, does not leave the body for a 
period of one to three weeks. It causes a 
lack of motivation. It disrupts the brain's 
ability to transfer information from short 
term to long term memory. It disrupts the 
body's metabolism. And, unlike many 
people believe, it is addictive. When 
smoked, marijuana brings with it the same 
danger as tobacco smoking: cancer, stroke, 
heart attack, emphysema. All these 
terminal diseases are caused by smoke 
inhalation, whether tobacco or marijuana, 
or diesel exhaust. Marijuana is not safe.
Writing in the Student Union, Basil 
Hendricks' comments on the pro's and con's 
of drugs. For: "... it can be an uplifting, 
eye-opening and downright enlightening
Does Reagan Really Want Apartheid to Fall?
By LISA McANANY 
After Reagan's veto of the package of 
sanctions against South Africa, there will 
be much speculation about why the 
President thwarted Congress' attempts to
Column
speed the fall of Apartheid, couldn't the 
answer to that question simply be that 
Reagan does not really want Apartheid to 
fall? After all, from Reagan's point of 
view, the United States stands to lose much 
more if Botha's government collapses, than 
we do if the status quo is simply preserved.
What do we stand to lose? Strategic 
metals, basically. South Africa is the onlyAre Computers
By JAY KATZ
I dislike high technology, especially 
computers. CMU has taught me to hate 
those sacred piles of useless wires and 
plastics and I have many reasons for my
feelings.____________________________________
[ Column i
To start with, have you noticed what the 
conditions of the computer rooms are like? 
Just about every one that I've been forced to 
use has been in a hot, dark isolated room 
which usually has no windows or at least 
has blinds and curtains to conceal any 
natural light that could possibly enter the 
room. It would have made a good dungeon 
in medieval times.
Computers, when programmed, allow 
people to think less about whatever the 
computer program is doing for them. In 
many instances, the user of the program 
has no idea what it is doing for them. The 
computer still spits out the answer no 
matter how low the IQ of the user is.
I admit that computers do save time on 
tedious work. Used as a learning aid, as a 
supplement, the computer can be effective. 
But I see a reliance on computers and that 
is frightening.
The emphasis at this school on this great 
marvel of high tech is arguably larger than 
any other higher learning institution in the 
country. Through high-tech, CMU is 
gaining recognition.
Upon examining the curriculum and 
departments for the school of Humanities 
and Social Sciences, I found that some 
aspect of the computer is being studied in 
each department. For instance, one of the 
options that the philosophy department 
here pushes is a major entitled "Logic and 
Computation". I just cannot visualize 
Plato hacking away at the computer while 
adding his theoretical witticisms.
Also, the psychology department at
A-.V V .
source of a few of the minerals necessary 
for building some of the United States' 
planes and weapons.
The current government in South Africa 
is an abomination to anyone with the 
slightest sense of human dignity. No one 
will contest that, especially Reagan who 
recognizes the power of rhetoric, but at 
least Botha's system has managed to 
maintain relative economic and political 
stability, prior to the 1960's. And it is 
friendly to the U.S. If the sustem of 
Apartheid falls - anything could happen. 
The country could turn Communist and 
decide not to be friendly to America. Where 
would we get our titanium? Because 
Reagan cannot be certain that a newin Control?
CMU is in the process of teaching 
computers to think like humans. 
Eventually, I'm sure that the department 
will begin teaching humans how to think 
like computers. One of the psychology 
course titles is "Human factors". The 
sound of that name gives me an impression 
that humans are big, bumbly blobs who 
every so often kick out the plug of the 
computer and mess everything up.
The computing courses that I have 
experienced at CMU have taught me very 
little but have added much to my disdain of 
computers. I received an "A" grade in 
Introduction to Computing yet I know 
barely any Pascal, the language taught in 
the course, and the only thing that I really 
learned was that I don't like to endlessly 
stare at computer screens.
Computers are a poor substitution for 
people. It's nice having a real person to 
help you with your coursework and 
homework. But soon, whoever helps you 
now will just say "Go use the computers- 
they can help you better than I can." I'd 
rather be misled by a life form than find out 
that the computer can’t talk to me right 
now, it's got a system error.
And that is the worst problem about 
computers: they don’t always work or work 
how you want them to. I imagine that just 
about everyone who has used a computer 
has experienced some sort of computer 
malfunction. Or at least everyone has 
stared at the computer screen in 
bewilderment because what is supposed to 
happen is not happening. Sometimes the 
software that students are using is not even 
perfected and leads to disastrous problems.
I'm all for the advancement of society but 
I don't want machines to be doing all of the 
advancing. In the future, the people who 
control computers may be a small minority 
in comparison to those who are controlled 
by the computer. I hope the "human 
factors" will prevail over computers.
government will be friendly towards the 
U.S., it is safer to support the current 
government until it looks like it is going 
to crumble. But "supporting Botha is not 
without its dangers.
From the amoral, political standpoint, 
there are two real dangers associated with 
supporting Apartheid. The first is that the 
general public rightfully finds Apartheid 
repulsive. The whole system is a gross 
abuse of human life. Luckily for Reagan, 
John Q. Public is pretty apathetic unless he 
is directly threatened. Apartheid is not 
directly threatening just offensive. Most 
people probably won't take their rage over 
Apartheid to the polls. Besides, Regan is a 
lame duck, and only has to worry about the 
fate of the GOP, not his own reelection.
The other danger, the more substantial 
one, is that our supply of strategic metals 
would be cut off if Apartheid does crumble 
and a black government comes to power 
and notices that Reagan did not actively 
oppose and try to dismantle South Africa's
The Tartan is the official student 
newspaper of Carnegie Mellon University. It 
is a weekly newspaper, published each 
Tuesday during the fall and spring 
semesters by students at no cost to 
members of the university community. It is 
printed by Typecraft Press, Inc. 
Subscriptions are available for $15 per 
semester, $25 per year. The Editorial 
appearing at the beginning fo the opinion 
section is the official opinion of The 
Tartan editorial board. Columns are the 
opinions of individual authors who are not 
necessarily on The Tartan editorial board 
or staff. Letters to the Editor are 
opinions of individual authors who are 
usually members of the University 
community. A letter intended for publication
experience that breaks down barriers, opens 
the mind..." That same effect can be 
achieved by talking to one's neighbor or 
good friend. Against: "It can also be a 
destructive, depressing and generally 
devastating experience..." When a person 
removes his own eyes, and then immolates 
himself because of PCP, it can hardly be 
said that he is experiencing a depressing and 
devastating experience.
This absolute disregard of the facts is 
mind blowing. How a CMU student can be 
so ill-informed, or just plain stupid, is 
incredible. Wake up students! Smell the 
roses. Drugs are not worth it. For that 
high, you risk expulsion, criminal 
prosecution or death. When will you realize 
that DRUGS ARE NOT SAFE?
racial policies. Certainly at this point they 
would deny the U.S. its strategic metals.
So in order to ensure our ability to tap 
into South Africa’s mineral resources, 
Reagan must walk a fine line between 
preserving a government which is well- 
disposed towards the U.S., yet appearing to 
oppose the system for moral/humanitarian 
reasons. That means being where the 
balance of power is. Right now, Reagan 
might believe that Apartheid will maintain 
its hold for a while. This is not 
unreasonable, because holding power is not 
difficult when you have no moral 
compunctions about brutally oppressing 
large numbers of people with whatever 
means it takes.
But if these hypotheses about Reagan's 
perceptions of foreign policy and national 
interests proves to be correct, if the balance 
of power starts to significantly shift in 
favor of the South African blacks, Reagan 
had better accordingly change his policies, 
if he still wants to get strategic metals.
must be signed and include the writer's 
address and phone number for verification. 
Names will be withheld upon request. The 
Tartan reserves the right to condense or 
reject any letter or column. Copyright 1986 
by The Tartan. The editorial board 
reserves the right to withhold from 
publication any copy it deems unfit for 
publication.
Office: Skibo 50-52 (412) 268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan
Box 17
Carnegie Mellon Univ.
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
Funded in part by the Activities Fee. All 
rights reserved. Library of Congress ISSN 
#: 0890-3107.
The Tartan
Olve Peersen
Lisa D. McAnany
Editor-in-Chief
Andrew Robitshek
Managing EditorBusiness Manager
Drue MillerJoshua M. LevineBruce Kasrel
News EditorFeatures EditorEntertainment Editor
John FriedmannRuth MatsumuraAndrew Gillespie
Sports EditorPhoto Darkroom EditorPhoto Assignment Editor
Kurt ShawAlbrecht T. PowellCeleste Clark
Art EditorProduction ManagerTypesetting Manager
John BabichKathryn A. SitterDave Levy
Dossier EditorTypesetting ManagerTartan Assistant
Neil GreenblumJack L. Poller
Contributing EditorContributing Editor

---------------------------------------------------

Top Technical, Marketing, 
and Business Development 
Graduates
Did you distinguish yourself here ? 
If so, then come to Oracle Corporation and do it again !
If you're in the top 10% of your graduating class and have academic credentials you can brag 
about, i. e. high school valedictorian, salutatorian, Phi Beta Kappa, Sigma Xi or other well 
respected honor societies, National Merit winner, etc., then we would like to talk to you about 
joining the best.
Oracle Corporation is a very successful, very fast-growing company which has established its 
place in the software industry with its premier relational database product, ORACLE.
ORACLE is a SGL-based relational DBMS that includes a set of integrated application 
development and decision support tools.
Oracle Corporation will give you:
*Fascinating and challenging work. We need to staff these projects: distributed database, interactive graphics, and networking of hetrogeneous machines, to name a few. Work on a variety of systems, including new IBM products,Apollos, Suns, MicroVAXes, and many PCs, including the IBM RT/PC.
* ' • • , , .% :*JL: v Lt >ff.. . IA superior work environment. Oracle headquarters is a beautiful new building in the rolling hills of Northern California,with a view of San Francisco Bay. We're within 20 minutes of San Francisco, 40 minutes of the Pacific, and Lake Tahoeis 3 1/2 hours away.
We offer exceptional salaries to exceptionally gifted, exceptionally disciplined workers. Every Oracle employee has a piece of equity in the company, and we provide complete medical/dental/life coverage. You can work the flexible hours that make you the most productive.
A superb group of peers. Our development staff is made up of the smartest people we can find from the finest schools in the country.
* 'A sign-on bonus. If you meet the Oracle standard you may be eligible to receive a one-time bonus equal to 10% of your starting salary at Oracle.
Oracle will be interviewing on campus October 21,22 and November 3. A presentation will be given on October 8.Also, mark your calendars and look for Oracle at the Technical Opportunities Conference November 17. For more information contact Career Services and Placement.
I am looking for people to work in all of our divisions: Development, OEM, Field Sales and Support,Corporate Support, 
Consulting and International Divisions. If you have interest in any of these areas, please sign up for an interview or call. 
We want very much to share our success with the best.(415) 598-8000 or 598-8183
20 Davis Drive, Belmont, California 94002

---------------------------------------------------

Above: Meg Webster's second, more succesfull, try at the Mud structure 
Upper left: Diane Samuels 1982 piece “44 Imaginary Installations”
By BRUCE KASREL
Tartan Entertainment Editor 
When I first heard about a place called The 
Mattress Factory on the North Side, I was a 
bit confused. What's the big deal about a 
place that chums out hundreds of box 
springs daily? Upon closer inspection I 
discovered that the Mattress Factory has 
- about as much in common with bedroom 
furniture as the Pirates have in common 
with the pennant race.
What the Mattress Factory is, however, is 
one of the finest showcases for alternative 
art forms. The six story building that once 
was a Stems & Foster warehouse, is now 
one of only a handfull of galleries across 
the country that feature highly unusual and 
intruiging art forms.
Although the Mattress Factory often 
sponsors live concerts, it is basically a 
gallery of installation art. Installation art 
uses a variety of mediums arranged in 
relation to the space in which it inhabits. 
Virtually everything from an eight-ton wall 
of mud to a sophisticated maze using video 
cameras and mirrors have graced the insides 
of the 500 Sampoonia Way establishment. 
Currently, English artist Bill Woodrow has 
completed a piece that incorporates existing 
kitchen fixtures that are over 80 years old.
in-CpmrtiLee Ritenourfs
By ByJ OSHR
Tartan Assitant Entertainment Editor 
Guitarist-extraordinaire Lee Ritenour made 
his first area appearance in nearly seven 
years last Thursday at The Graffiti Coffee 
House and Lounge on Baum Boulevard. 
Kitenour, who has worked with such artists 
fs Dave Grusin (with whom he won a 
Grammy for Harlequin ), Steely Dan and 
George Benson, staged two performances 
Thursday with an illustrious band of 
leasoned pros in an unforgettable evening 
°! inspired modem jazz.
featured were numbers from his latest 
flbum entitled, Earth Run, as well as some 
.linemorable older pieces, spanning Rit's 10-
"The Mattress Factory is a space in which 
the artist is allowed to create work perhaps 
you have never seen before," says Richard 
Siegesmund, director of the Pennsylvania 
Council on the Arts' visual arts program. 
"So, in a sense, it is much more of a 
gamble, more of a risk-taking than that of 
museums."
The reason why the Mattress Factory 
takes such risks is revealed in its history.
Back in the early seventies, sculptor 
Barbara Luclerowski happened to pass 
through Pittsburgh on a trip to New York. 
The Michigan native instantly fell in love 
with the subtle charm and promise of the 
North Side's Mexican War Street district 
and within a matter of months was calling 
the Steel City home.
Her past history of rennovating homes 
was put right to use in the somewhat 
underdeveloped area. Moving from one 
house to another, Ms. Luderowski rapidly 
acquired a large portion of real estate that 
was soon to be the Mattress Factory. As it 
stands, she has six homes and two 
warehouses to her credit.
Despite the fact that these refurbished 
town houses serve as Ms. Luderowski's 
main source of income (she rents them out 
to resident artists), they also serve a much
year career . The night came alive as the 
band took to the stage over a pre-recorded 
groove and burst into a hot funk rage under 
the auspices of former-Zappa drummer, 
Vinnie Coliuta, and bassman Tim Landers 
(ex-Al DiMeola band). An enthusiastic 
audience was in tune from the first mom­
ent Rit let loose - substance becomes art 
when the artist makes it look this easy. 
Keyboardist Bamaby Finch alternated solos 
with the guitarist throughout most of the 
90 minute set, coming dangerously close to 
stealing the show on such numbers as 
Number Eight and Countdown. As a rule, 
the band seemed to be truly enjoying them­
selves throughout. Their energy couldn’t
higher purpose—to provide a studio/iiving 
space that is more congenial. What Ms. 
Luderowski, along with a host of friends, 
have created is a place where artists of all 
mediums have the unique opportunity to 
support and critique one another.
Not all of the staff of the Mattress 
Factory live within the small radius, but 
you can usually find everyone inside the 
main complex. It is here where the 
workshops are located and where most of 
the on-site installations are conceived. And 
it is here where the most important aspect
help but rub off onto a packed house.
The most pleasant surprise of the evening 
was in the person of Phil Perry, a burly 
man with an equally big voice. Joining the 
band for some five numbers throughout the 
evening. Perry was the perfect compliment 
to Rit's lyrical solos ~ from a whisper to a 
scream, this guy has a voice to humble any 
Dreamgirl. Two of Perry's brightest mom­
ents came in a native's reading of life along 
the Boulevard, Sunset Driver , and what is 
probably the closest Ritenour has come to 
a cross-genre hit in the poppy Is it You.
About the only disappointing aspect of 
the show was that Ritenour never used the 
Synthaxe, a recently developed midi guitar
of the Mattress Factory comes to life - 
—teamwork.
Unlike other forms of art, installation 
requires the assistance of a large crew. 
Since art is often created for display in the 
massive gallery rooms, the pieces always 
take on larger -than- life qualities. A visit­
ing artist can usually expect a loft full of 
fellow artists to help out in all phases of 
the project. He or she can also count on the 
paperwork being done by Ms. Luderowski 
along with assistant Michael Olijnyk.
continued on page D4
which he has been promoting heavily for 
the past few months. This is forgivable, 
however, as Rit tore down the walls with a 
largely un-effected guitar in solo after solo, 
opting for a bare-bones funk sound over 
hyper-production.
Future shows at Graffiti include Mose 
Allison, October 2; Taj Mahal, October 9; 
and comedienne Sandra Bernhardt, October 
11. For tickets and info, call 682-4210.
Write for Diversions and be one of the few, the proud, the critics
guitar wizardry dazzles Graffiti audience
Entertainment Comics |
Classifieds j
Events
Alternative art in Pittsburgh
jr à

---------------------------------------------------

Page D2—The Tartan—September 30, 1986
New records: A hit and a miss with Timbuk 3 and new Elvis
BY DAN WEIR
Tartan Assistant Entertainment Editor
Greetings From...
Timbuk 3
I.R.S.
In Friction' Timbuk 3's Pat McDonald 
asserts himself with, "... one spark is all we 
need to bring a light into this darkness." — a 
bit over-confident, maybe, but it's refreshing 
when a band can back up self-assurdness 
with quality. Greetings From..., the band’s 
premiere LP on a major label, delivers.
Note: this is not a terribly well-balanced 
record; a gratuitous. rap on side B does 
nothing but negate the good intentions laid 
out in the band's bulleted single ,The 
Futures, So Bright I Gotta Wear Shades. 
Both tunes use flip sarcasm to indict yuppie 
vision — Future... keeps it cheeky while 
Shame on You is almost vigilant in its 
criticism; way out of key with the rest of the 
record. Also, not since Debbie Harry and 
Blondie's Rapture has a rap sounded as 
contrived as this. For the most part, 
MacDonald's songs keep to the standards - 
relationships, ambition and life's little 
trials, with a fresh and introspective edge
that sets Timbuk 3's lyrics apart off the 
crowd.
The sound is just as crisp; this is 
simplicity at its finest. MacDonald and 
bandmate Barbara K. play on Appalachian 
riffs in a style readily comparable to T-Bone 
Burnette and Janis Joplin. Note: Future ... , 
is atypical of this album's sound, don't be 
mislead. I imagine this isn't the first, nor 
will it be the last time MacDonald's folky 
twang will be likened to Burnette. 
Minimalist production adds to the earthy 
groove of Hairstyles and Attitudes and I 
Love You in the Strangest Way as sparse 
leads play over solid acoustic bases; and 
MacDonald and K.'s voices reach
compromise more than blend.
In the end, the album has more going for 
it than against it. This is a flawed but 
promising first showing from a band from 
which we re bound to hear more.
Blood and Chocolate
Elvis Costello and the Attractions
Columbia
This is going to hurt. What, with the 
chillingly well-done King of America this
past March, Elvis Costello seemed on the 
road to redemption for the lean years that 
gave us Goodbye Cruel World. So what 
happened? Blood and Chocolate is a 
genuinely boring album. I repeat, this is 
dull stuff. Granted, several tracks are typical 
Elvis -- straight from the Get Happy vein. 
I Hope You're Happy Now is a swirling 
soul rave-up, in league with Elvis' best. On
the other hand, Tokyo Storm Warning a is a 
maddening drone, vaguely based on B 
movies effects. The album is a reunion-of- 
sorts for Elvis and the Attractions, as 
longtime wards Thomas, Thomas, and Nieve 
only played one number on King of 
America. The Attractions have every right 
to sound uninterested here, and they do. 
Nick Lowe nominally produces what sounds 
like a low-budget tape of a tired jam.
The problem here is not lyricism. The 
album reeks of standard Elvis eloquence -
- the half-baked hooks are what make this 
record a chore. The project sounds rushed. 
The explanation may lie in the fact that the
Your basic 
problem:
Physics
Genetics
Statistics
Calculus
Complex Numbers 
Analytical Geometry 
Stress Analysis 
Organic Chemistry 
Probability
Gaussian Transformations 
Differential Equations 
Titrations 
Electromagnetics 
Thermodynamics 
Fluid Mechanics 
Etc., etc*, etc....
Your BASIC 
solution:
Introducing BASICALC, The new Texas Instruments programmable calculator.
Now there’s a programmable scientific calculator 
that solves even the most complex math, engi­
neering and science problems in a BASIC way. 
The TI-74 BASICALC.
Unlike most other programmable calculators 
that require you to learn a new, complicated 
system of keystroke commands-in effect, a new
Your basic specs:
• Operates as a calculator or BASIC computer
• 8K RAM expandable to 16K RAM
• 70 built-in scientific functions
• Optional software cartridges for mathematics 
and statistics
• Optional PASCAL language cartridge
• Optional printer and cassette interface
programming language-the TI-74 BASICALC 
allows you to use the BASIC language program­
ming you already know.
But don’t let the BASICALC’s ease of opera­
tion fool you. It also has more calculating power 
than comparably-priced programmables. And a 
variety of options, like software cartridges, are 
available that make it even more powerful and 
convenient.
Stop by and see the TI-74 BASICALC for 
yourself. In basic terms, what it really offers you 
is a bargain. «
TheBa n 
glasArChlsa
upcoming tour will feature two backing 
bands, both the Attractions and the 
hodgepodge featured on King..., and that 
Elvis simply wanted some new material 
unique to the Attractions. A note: this show 
is being touted as a novelty in that during an 
audience-participation segment of the
concert, Elvis will be subject to a spinning 
wheel on which are listed some 40 tunes: a 
different set guaranteed for every night. 
Regardless, the current touring material for 
the different outfits is incomparable.
Strangely, the band sounds out of practice -
- not as musicians, but as an ensemble. On 
several listens, one just isn't impressed that 
much rehersal time went into the making of 
Blood and Chocolate. This is really out of 
character for a band known for its fresh 
approach and swooning interplay. Steve 
Nieve, especially, sounds restricted. Where 
the band relied on Nieve's expressive 
keyboards in the past ( largely due to Elvis' 
admitted ineptitude as a guitarist), the sound 
here is empty; some casual effect-abuse 
sounds particulary bogus.
Well, let's not dwell on it. The man's 
talent is not coming into question here, 
merely his lackadaisical disregard for 
bandmates who deserve better than this.
WRCTTOP9
1) Excutive Slacks 
Fire and Ice
2) Nick Cave & Bad Seeds 
Kicking Against the Pricks
3) Pussy Galore 
Groovy Hate F**k
4) Ciccione Youth 
7-inch
5) Holy Cow 
Call It What You Will...
6) Scratch Acid 
Just Keep Screaming
7) Big Black 
EP
8) Laibach 
Nova Akrophobia
9) Robert Fripp 
________Instrumental________
Music Calender
OAKLAND—The Department of 
Music of the University of Pittsburgh 
presents Sally Sax in a recital at the 
Frick Fine Arts Auditorium, Pitt 
Campus, on Thursday, October 9 at 
8:10 pm. Mrs. Sax will be assisted by 
Sylvan Sax, violin, and Susan 
Wagner, cello, in a performance of the 
Ravel "Trio", as well as by soprano 
Lynne Webber who will sing "Nine 
Persian Folk Songs" by Reza Vali. 
The program also includes works by 
Gibbs and Morris.
This concert is free and open to the 
public.aaB ggg mm ggg ^ ggg mug mum ^ ^ ^ ,
PITTSBURGH—The Pittsburgh Ch­
amber Music Society opens its 1986- 
87 season with an all-Beethoven con­
cert featuring the Guameri String Quar­
tet, on Monday, October 6, at 8 pm in 
Carnegie Music Hall, 4400 Forbes 
Avenue, Oakland. Advance tickets can 
be purchased at the William Pitt Union 
ticket office on the Pitt campus. Tick­
ets will also be available from the Car­
negie Music Hall box office the 
evening of the concert for $10 and $14. 
Student discounts are offered. For more 
information, call the Society at 624- 
4129.___________________________________

---------------------------------------------------

September 30, 1986—The Tartan—Page D3
Carnegie Mellon drama celebrates itfs 72nd year in style
PITTBURGH—The Carnegie Mellon 
University Drama Department will cele­
brate its 72nd season by presenting five 
plays during 1986-87:
"The Miss Firecracker Contest," an 
American comedy by Pulitzer Prize-win­
ning playwright Beth Henley, will run Oct. 
1-11. This production will be directed by 
Michael Shamata, who will be returning to 
Carnegie Mellon after a summer with the 
Stratford Shakespeare Festival.
"The Odyssey," Leon Katz’ new dramatic 
adaptation of the ancient Greek epic, will 
run Nov. 12-22. Jorge Guerra, one of the 
directors of Carnegie Mellon's popular
1984 show "The Greeks," will direct this
production.
Mararhon '33," to be directed by Lee 
Sankowich, is actress/playwright June 
Havoc's study of American dreamers drawn 
together by a 1933 dance marathon. The 
play is scheduled for Feb. 4-14. Sankowich 
is known to Pittsburgh audiences for his 
direction of "The Women" and "Sunday in 
the Park with George" for Carnegie 
Mellon, and "Becoming Memories" and 
"The Real Thing" for the Pittsburgh Public 
Theater.
“The Lower Depths,” Maxim Gorki's
landmark drama of hope among society's 
outcasts, is set for March 11-21. Tony Mc­
Kay, a professor at Carnegie Mellon and 
director of last season's Feydeau farces, will 
direct this play.
A musical to be announced will close the 
season, running April 22-May 2. Directing 
will be Billy Wilson, who directed "Guys 
and Dolls" at Carnegie Mellon and "Side by
The Monkees are
By LAURA LIND
Tartan Music Critic
Hey, hey, remember The Monkees? They 
were the made-for-television group modeled 
after The Beatles. Most of us were too 
young (or weren't even around) to ap­
preciate The Monkees when they first hit 
the television/music scene in 1966. How­
ever, now we can relive Monkeemania, for 
it's back in order to celebrate their twentieth 
anniversary.
Monkeemania II probably got its biggest 
boost from MTV, who showed reruns of 
"The Monkees" from February to May of 
this year. Last September, Monkee mem­
bers Micky Dolenz, David Jones and
Side by Sondheim" at the Hazlett Theater.
This season, for the first time, Carnegie 
Mellon Drama is offering subscribers the 
option of ordering a DramaCard instead of 
show tickets. The DramaCard will allow 
subscribers to buy seats now at reduced 
prices but choose performance dates at a 
later time. In addition, regular subscriptions 
will be available for weekend nights,
Peter Tork began their twentieth anni­
versary concert tour. (Mike Nesmith, the 
fourth Monkee, was too busy to get 
involved with the concert tour.) In addition, 
there was a Monkees convention in Phila­
delphia at the beginning of August. The 
demand for tickets was far greater than was 
anticipated; the Monkees were still very 
popular, even after 20 years.
While on their concert tour, the Monkees 
stopped in Pittsburgh and performed at the 
Civic Arena on July 9. They had three 
other '60's bands touring with them: Gary 
Puckett and the Union Gap, The Grass 
Roots, and Herman's Hermits. Perhaps I'm 
biased, because I'm a Monkees fan and a fan
weeknights, Saturday matinees, and pre­
views.
All Carnegie Mellon Drama productions 
are presented at the Kresge Theatre in the 
univeristy's College of Fine Arts building.
For more information, call the Carnegie 
Mellon Drama box office at (412) 268- 
2407 between noon and 5 pm, Monday- 
Friday.
of '60's music, but I thought the concert 
was one of the most entertaining events I 
have ever attended. The Monkees' energy 
was terrific; even from my Section E seat I 
could feel it. Watching them, I could not 
believe that 20 years had gone by; on stage, 
they were as lively as they had been on 
their show.
Because their tour has been extended, The 
Monkees will return to the Civic Arena on 
October 8. So, if you're lucky enough to 
get tickets, those of you who have not ful­
ly experienced Monkeemania II can get in 
on it. If it's anything like their first show 
in Pittsburgh, the concert should be a huge 
success.
back, the Monkees are back
Futon Sale
Manufactured: 
Carlisle Mattress Factory 
5116 Penn Ave. 
Pgh, PA 15224 
Call 661-6499 (9am-4pm)
Oriental Mattress: Lightweight, 
easily packed up for moving and 
storage. Perfect for apts, dorms, wherever space is limited.
DEMO STUDIO
Quality Recording You Can Afford
1052 Franklin Drive
i yUHE inuiim Bethel Park, PA 1510^PACK IRWIN (412)835-639?
0
Cuts $14-*16
Mon.-Fri. 9-9 
Sat. 9-5
Open Sunday 12 - 5
Lewis’
813 S. Aiken Avenue • Shadyside 
682-4063
&
Merrill Lynch 
will be on campus
Thursday, October 9,1986
We are recruiting undergraduates with a 
B.S. in Computer Science or related degrees 
for our Corporate Systems Program.
Please contact your placement office 
for details.
Merrill Lynch is a worldwide financial services 
organization striving for excellence by serving the 
needs of individuals, corporations, governments and 
institutions. Corporate Systems professionals play a 
critical role in the support of Merrill Lynch as the 
leader in our industry.
Merrill Lynch
Merrill Lynch is an Equal Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

Page D4—The Tartan—September 30,1986
North Side art gallery is putting Pittsburgh in the international art scene
continued from front
Although the team effort usually runs 
smoothly, there was one instance where it 
almost backfired. Meg Webster, an artist 
well-known for her use of organic media, 
was constructing a giant wall composed of 
mud. On the eve of opening night, a crack 
was discovered and the crew rushed over to 
support the structure. As expected, eight 
tons of mud had its way and Ms. 
Luderowski narrowly escaped without 
injury.
Such cases like Webster's are rare, but 
alternative art can be a risky venture on all 
levels.
There is one aspect, however, thai the 
Factory does not leave to chance—will the 
environment suit the wishes of the visiting 
artist? This dilemma is easily solved by 
their policy that they will do virtually 
anything to surroundings in order to please 
the creator. "If the artist wants the walls 
patched but not painted or the floors 
varnished, we will do it," says Ms. 
Luderowski. This extremely flexible 
policy, coupled with the excellent facilities 
and hours of free labor, has attracted artists 
from around the globe.
Even though the results of all these 
contributing factors is often spectacular, it 
also exposes the sole drawback in 
installation art—downtime. Installation 
was always meant to be temporary- most 
previous exhibits have a lifespan of about 
one to two months. So when a work has 
finished its run it must be taken down 
immediately. Because another project 
cannot start until another is removed, there 
is a one to three month lag between 
projects.
A solution to this problem is 
forthcoming with the completion of a $1.6 
million expansion planned for the end of 
this year. With it comes eleven more 
exhibit spaces, 20 more offices, and nine 
more residential spaces. What is even more
Student
Rush
one half 
hour before 
the show
tickets
83.50
with II)
Upper right : Eiko Fan; 
Performance 1984
Lower right : Michael Olijnyk; 
Installation 1982
Above : Nunc Fluens Installation
1985
impressive is the fact that a major portion 
of the funds come from the private sector 
(the Mattress Factory is non-profit and does 
receive federal grants). The expansion will 
also provied a performing arts space which 
will allow the Factory to begin to branch 
out even further.
While the Mattress Factory grows leaps 
and bounds in the years to come, Ms. 
Luderowski asserts that the gallery will 
still have the same purpose. "What we are 
presenting is a lot like listening to new 
music. It doesn’t mean that you don't listen 
to Bach, Beethoven, or Mozart, it mean
that you listen to it with a slightly different 
perspective," muses Luderowski. Thanks to 
the Mattress Factory, art lovers in 
Pittsburgh will always have that 
opportunity.
The Mattress Factory is open to the public. 
Call 231-3169for more information.
Carnegie Mellon Drama
presents the Pittsburgh premiere of
The Miss Jr 
Firecracker ~ 
Contest
October 1-11
Art unconventional,
All-American comedy 
by Pulitzer Prize- 
winning playwright 
Beth Henley, author of 
“Crimes of the Heart.”
Kresge Theatre 
College of Fine Arts
For tickets call 263-2407

---------------------------------------------------

September 30,1986—The Tartan—Page D5
No matter how hard you try, you can ft get rid of Joe Bob
nAD DDinnC «-------• -------...By JOE BOB BRIGGS
Drive-In Movie Critic
This column is dedicated to Gary Tyrrell, 
the defensive trombone player for Stanford 
who tackled a Berkeley player in the end 
zone two years ago after he had ELUDED 
EVERY OTHER SECTION of the 
Stanford band, including the oboes.
In other words, it's time for Joe Bob's 
West Coast Surfer Boy football predictions. 
We re talkin' Pac 10 Brainburger coke-heads 
majorin' in psychic aerobics. We're 
talkin'...
1. EWE SEE EL LAY: You know 
why these guys win ever' year? Because a) 
they're in touch with their true feelings, b) 
the atheletic cafeteria serves "tofu and 
roughage surprise" three times a week, and 
c) each starting player was awarded one 
retired Solid Gold dancer. We can put it in 
one word: Motivation.
2. Arizona State: I got a feelin' about 
these guys. They got one of those quarter­
backs that goes in the huddle and gets a 
stick and draws little squiggly lines in the 
dirt and then says "O.K., shoot, I don't 
know, just run down there and catch it," 
and he heaves it 87 yards and they have to 
pay out an extra $200 to each split end. 
The only reason they might not make it
is...
3. Arizona: That’s right. The ones 
down in Tucson. They're dedicatin' the 
statue they week—the bronze statue of 
Hutton "Bear Down" Salmon, the quarter­
back and student body president who died in 
1920 with the following words on his lips: 
"I don't really care about football at a time 
like this." It's got the Wildcats totally 
choked up.
4. EWE ES SEE: The only team 
named after a form of birth control will 
always get my vote, but they're still
hurtin' after the NC double-A made ’em go 
to their room for three years. It kinda hurt 
recruiting for a while, but this year new 
starting quarterback Chuck Woolery will be 
introducing the dreaded "Neilsen Wish­
bone," in which fans have their most 
sensitive body parts wired for "electro- 
galvanic skin responses" every time they 
notice one of the players' tight rear ends in 
that "Trojan Gold Spandex." It creates a 
startling effect in Memorial Stadium 
similar to the Lionel Richie portion of the
1984 Olympics Fireworks Show.
5. Washington: Last year the Huskies 
played like Chihuahuas, but new Coach 
Don James says he's got everything figured 
out and every player named "Darrell" or 
"Bo" will play on the starting team. 
Players with spelling difficulties, such as 
"Darryl" Franklin and "Lonzell Thrill" Hill, 
will be used on every play, including the 
new "Space Needle Shift," in which 
quarterback Chris Chandler imitates a re­
volving restaurant and charges you $12 for 
parking.
6. Berkeley: The starting backfield is 
named Marc, Todd, Kevin, Brian and Vince. 
They'll just be swooshing right down that 
field.
7. Stanford: They've never recovered 
from the loss of starting trombonist Gary 
Tyrrell, plus there were new injuries in the 
bassoon and French-horn sections after that 
bus trip to Carmel. Fortunately, thanks to 
the Palo Alto Chamber of Commerce, the 
entire linebacking corps has been replaced 
by a software program. "We discovered it 
could tackle better," explained head coach 
Jack Elway.
8. Washington State: Head coach 
Jim "It's Not My Fault" Walden has been 
holding two-a-day workouts on the slopes 
of Mount St. Helens to prove that the
ON CAMPUS
Meet Members of our 
Technical Staff
October 14,1986
Lincoln Laboratory professionals are at the forefront of 
unique Research and Development efforts across a broad 
spectrum of advanced electronics technology in projects 
ranging from component development to the design 
and construction of complex prototype systems. Every 
year, many of the finest Ph.D. and M.S. level graduates 
add their expertise and energy to our international repu­
tation for excellence. We invite you to join them in one of 
the following areas:
• Digital Systems 
Processing
• Machine Intelligence
• Image Processing
• VLSI
• Satellite 
Communications
• Signal Processing
• Optics and Lasers
• Microelectronics
Located at the heart of of New England’s high technology 
belt, a career at Lincoln Laboratories also puts you within 
easy reach of the region’s most beautiful beaches and 
mountains-and less than 15 miles from downtown Boston 
with its‘diverse cultural, educational and athletic events.
Contact your placement office to arrange interviews or send your resume to Mr. Chet Yablonski, MIT Lincoln Laboratory, 244 Wood Street, Lexington, MA 02173. (617)863-5500, Ext. 7050. U.S. Citizenship required.
An equal opportunity/affirmative action employer.
®MITLINC0LNLABORATORY
Cougars, in his words, "are not scaredy- 
cats, are not, are not, nyah nyah nyah."
9. Oregon: My personal favorites, the 
Quackers, will play three home games this 
year in Rajneeshpuram in order to com­
mune with the Duck Spirits of 1931,
the last time anybody played football in 
Eugene, Ore.
10. Oregon State: In Corvallis
they're callin’ this "The Year of the 
Beaver." That’s what's wrong. Those boys 
should be playin' football.
The Tartan wishes to thank Mr. and Mrs. Powell for 
the most incredible cake on the face of the earth. 
Again their love and baked goods give us Tatrtan 
toilers reason to continue on.
LIBRARY
ONLINE
CATALOG
WORKSHOPS
Hunt Library is offering fifty minute workshops on 
Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and Thursdays from September 23 
to October 30. Workshops will cover the basics of searching strategies. Although advanced registration is not necessary, 
your place in the workshop will be guaranteed if you sign up at the Hunt Library Infomation Desk.
Tuesday,Wednesday,Thursday,
2:30 - 3:20 P.M. 
10:30 - 11:20 A.M. 
5:00 - 5:50 P.M.
For more information call x2442.
1/2 price admission with college I.D. Oct. 3 only!!
Pittsburgh’s biggest annual party!!!
m
OCT. 3-4-5
Convention Center Downtown
Enjoy family-style feasting, spirited drink­
ing, rousing oompah bands with non-stop 
music, and a dance fjoor for thousands.
Eat, drink, and dance . . .
Bring your beer mug . . 
Bring your appetite . . .
• Bring your dancing shoes. . .
• Bring your friends . . .or join a
crowd of new ones!_________
Hours: Fri., Oct. 3. 4 p.m -midnight Admission: Adults $4.00
Sat. Oct. 4. Noon-midnight Children 6-12 $2 00
Sun Oct 5. Noon-10 p m Children under 6 FREE

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
You Are Here
Ler^S TAKE TìfOB our 7& 
tiouoe -me pHYSicAL pUUJj: 
ÎHJ2*/ Gtf TH»Ck amo 7HW, 
7^5^ e^MoE awd
UioiOSJ 8*10# 'TWC ÜAO- 
OL^AIJUWESIS ûp CArttpUS-. •
by Nadini Sudd
uJilU pou>££fui_
<55\ldu </va G(£A(J ©uffc. 
^ID6 uJAucs | Moto <?üK
GC^#-|fei^ OU«. M6T»E5,
AMD WJAT92. OUR LACUfcS. 
LET S 6Në OJUAf
TU^y &€ALUj Oe^NÊ.
um«r Do M
srr?“
mapMV7,
by Curt Vile & Robin Larva
V^tU. 'Yoa Loot /VT TV\K 
Mot OMv-H X. -rilp^y\ex> ^ew
tW, ¦gx-rr T V-We -TO
VPAi NKyS Co*of VVIPCG8T
——
Inkspots
"My room'sil c
On Our Side
Biff and Mottyby Atalo & Tomatoe
TOPW' AT THÉ U$£fcALcKeeTi^ we awe
(\ GOe^T Jofc NVJNSCU,WH° 
tCtUMAX toucv\£D TH£ 
$rAC*e AT WOot^TocV^..
£uT Çefol^e THAT, i HAVE
m \ • /v$ofrriû^ WelW-kn
rt? uk£... , . .
<Hr> 1« MVviPoHG. 
ï vJHrr-T°#-<AUfcp
omi!p
ofn<£/fNo 
tf'JPWW^WEAfc.'x: 
WANfTbCAU- MTWIR
£§£**? HAVE/ 
._ 'IAUîû ^ 
Xi)^€>ODAWDX *"TB P0R8VJ 
J INCOME AN/t> WUtf 
9/C /jtowS,INA»A!
Qui V o lumeDuti scnr 
A cold 73UD AMD A 30TTLG OF CHAPS 
(LOLOQNE-
1
Voyages of the Stellar Lemmingby Sam Pearce
ifelkw 
*?
j»tee.
9aRSw3RÎy ; <à c^-k/nau
W^4te ptaM-V 5chftûtDik^
posîfîoKJ h/aV034QR
"1 LffofJ €-0"^° ^ »ôhîp 5 ^0J5PR Off ÎCfiR/ Qo^pof R fcfdM,
eow DaaAViead.
fcüAMS^
H>mR!wa Rwfcll : Ik*
Sdte^) of 4hè pgrpax>
«Sty's U)^po^«.y 
M*V*veÌ^<a!Vìo»Oi) OQP.c&t?.
DüOétC) ;SH?p'S .
(*„•4* «¿vioi/aO °
/•Vn ¦
I I Aj&frP Weal y. vinata nI
>M4D-hH»Uy uMÎKi&oi^cJ-^
WMWaToU Mi^UST “s3
/'"*»UF NAMVtzS VgfP» Tue HtJiÇTtS

---------------------------------------------------

The Carnegie Space Mellonby Thurston W. Jeffries
IN\l loOWOtRfcjMB* 
f TkEV WCWT OF*y
<sow6 fu
THE MEW'S IÇOOM 
)iOfTH A ... -gfJjSiRc???JgL>Hfr^oONIf 
llJMAT ARCI Vou...
5ÉÉ, I SAU TVitMMOT nJOiJ, PAMfJlT ¿Ofc'frfc 
1(0 4 RUSH AMt> CAAJ'T 
KiMT AMT LPU<3t<K. ^
orenN loOSKX , Kcut UtfHIKK Yo<i 'a F'WO o*T sooM
AÏTERSETTBLIM6 lU, 
-flHMt WEWT TO TWf 
LIBRARY T& StARcH FoR
0<it A »ID €Xo^f£A)r
MÄT» Mbrr fc«K,
r A **< AR» Au
UHFORTUWLY, ME; eut>tD 
UP IN BASFMtfiTc Tart
The Tartan wishes to apologize for the abscence of this 
week's installments of Bloom County. We have not yet 
received the current strips from the Washington Post syndicate.
%4EANWHtUE , “SOfAEWHERE %N 
THC uthBars LEVELS 
HA/VMv*CfcSCHLAû -
ME Y VJAKREM, 
I TH\IO*. X'VE 
FouKjb ‘SoiME'n-uwe».
tSoW^<A\Sagg>
¿fcUO. IN¦>&.m& Tc3 *4301"
,4*; odi&tJAL Comic srßiP 
¿ooseLV Basco <?*j L/fe" 45 
SßAPd/jrr Smceurs. My ti/wF 
a t^iOmC Poe ra amp 
Ot&u<fíep 73Ou .® -m/s/=fATJ(¿E .
A30Iie vr O'
lOOO's
¿£7" AUT' Ä/CSLS 4J4JO)60 NMT ec. 7MTnSfwi ¿/Anon/ esSaf
-mene u»u BET Ma Ttß&S, 
fuGHiicss üureßPocüu, on. Nnr 
fieeraJT/oos. œ ¿j&e
AJOSeP ßg06L€s. "Tins eOtLC _ 0C 
sm/cn-ÿ A8ovr éeumMC /tomi 
gß’M^S áJtfá ...
(PAßüOhl Mt)-----------------
LOTMVNW)
)6u. &IUT?
ftJVH C4&7JOAÍ YSokosamWt ihYnig PEElgHincaos My peut?
by Kurt Shaw
"Ws du/vazs/ry n fLetiep ro 
AnJioutJce ine £Heaa**&rr op 
A fUtryfia /«to '75 éeoptrarePHXSJJtM ... *
CMUtants by Translucia Baboon & Klutz Kaboom
iSyMqtkiOd
A301 by Ed Baranoski
i clean, Mom!"
V-os MueuBSA
Exo-Manby Jim Voorhees
UPSET WITH GRAPHIC 
VIOLENCE i GOODOL* 
BAD- GUV 5T0MPIN6?
by Jeff Diehl
TT* ... Ï.TS...
Vs
'bOV4»¿ THv^ 
LOM& 'b^e^VAPMJL 
THEB.e’S es cb29M
UOfOS *Nb 
TtGtRS AND 
PEACES OHcon
OH *A> 
600
A
SPACC^HlO!
THEN DIGOUT THOSC 
OLD ARCHIE BACK- 
ISSUE5fCAU^E WE’RET 
WOT PLftVlMC» GAMES.

---------------------------------------------------

Page D8—The Tartan—September 30, 1986
Zdenek Macal and Mimi Lerner give moving performance of Mahler
By KAREN SILVA
Tartan Music Critic 
Mezzo soprano Mimi Lerner, a Carnegie 
Mellon alumnus, wove a spell around the 
audience Saturday night with her 
performance of Mahler's Songs of Wayfarer 
under the direction of conductor Zdenek 
Macal.
Guest artist Lerner received her B.A. from 
Queens College in New York and M.F.A. 
from CMU, debuted with the New York 
City Opera in 1979, and has performed 
before with the Pittsburgh Symphony 
Orchestra. She is obviously a favorite with 
the resident musicians and also quickly 
became so with the audience. Lerner is a 
true performer, the emotion in the music 
was reflected through her presence and her 
voice. The power of her voice managed to 
keep her from being overpowered by the 
orchestra and she matched the high 
instrumental energy yet was able to 
incorporate very touching pathos. Macal, 
who conducted in a very precise manner, 
well handled the interaction between vocal 
and instrumental in this piece. In the final 
movement, Die zwei blauen Augen, the 
darkness, emotion and pain was easily 
conveyed, and the grim cadence of the 
percussion equalled a funeral march.
blauen Augen brought the audience to their 
feet even before the last notes had died. So 
loud and prolonged was the the applause 
that she called out "Thank you" and threw 
kisses to the audience.
Songs of a Wayfarer was originally 
scored as a cycle of six songs but was 
reduced to the four favorites of the 
composer. The music was written to 
suggest a wayfarer who has met with 
adversity and is wandering in solitude. It is 
the sad awakening of a sensitive youth who 
meets disappointment. It is a conflict and 
mixture of romantic and classical elements 
as the musical flows in solid forms but 
contains daring and unbounded imagination. 
Songs of a Wayfarer was a substitution for 
romantic suicide. Mahler composed it when 
he was a conductor in Cassel and had an 
unhappy love affair with actress/singer 
Johanna Richter. It contains "progressive 
tonality"—each song ending in a key 
higher than it started.
Also on the program were Mozart's 
Symphony No . 39 in E-flat Major which 
was the first piece and Tchaikovsky's 
Francra da Rimini, Opus 32. The Mozart 
was technically perfect and contained a 
beautiful performance by the woodwinds 
but it lacked dynamics and essential energy.
devoid of any depth and emotional value. 
Symphony No. 39 was written in 1788 
towards the end of Mozart's career.
Tchaikovsky's Francra da Rimini was a 
terrific finale to the evening's program. It 
was only the fifth occasion that this work 
has been performed by the PSO. The music 
represented the imagery of a descent to Hell 
with violent and ominous music. Having 
been scored for three flutes and piccolo, two 
oboes and English horn, two clarinets, two 
bassoons, four horns, two comets, two 
trumpets, three trombones and tuba, 
timpani, snare drum cymbals, tom-tom, 
harp and strings, there was a much fuller
sound than in the other two pieces. The 
woodwind section should be specially 
recognized for their performance.
This piece was inspired by Dante’s 
Inferno. The outer movements represent 
Hell and the middle movement was the 
ecstasy and suffering of the lovers. Here 
there was a beautiful clarinet solo and then 
the strings took the melody. The flute took 
the melody which was then carried by the 
orchestra. In the end there was sound and 
fury and violence again. This piece was 
worth sitting through the concert for and 
was well received by the audience.
Lemer's performance of Die zwie The music was light and sweet but was
¦ vij: m :>>'.•••• .>:i ££:•'• :£j y , '*.<¦ %%¦>&. ¦ <’+- -'-V ¦ ¦Even today, there are still a few students 
who don’t have an HP calculator.
* « sk , s*> -A . ' .*> ¦« ’••••• :* • . 17! *:• »• SK ‘:£:i* . i* - »• $* >>v 5*> •*: &.W *¦ >•» gf- m. •••••• ,v m. Jfcy' *v-- • '-.«fc
Sv •>* v‘;'
-clÄiib-:»: *
'
I v .V..v> v>. > i-v *.-X X- :*j;> £.:!»¦» '<( -ft v X->/¦¦¦:¦» H '•ft¦ '.'l» !?¦: .¦> ’• • >». .-o.»:!.¦.<> .. .v ¦ • ThCTeCTwoT or T• t :¦*: •.«.. G? rif > ;* • ;«•' a-i« < * V* •« *«>
• v: .:<> »K > iSK Ä .J . v? v* : '<•> ¦», , -O'x.. -, V& ¦:«¦*»*:. «.<<«• «v:».'«: ' >. •• ..; ... : • -, a;' 'ï< •*•3 it:'.- - • K-
: , :• ^ ; i •-
a I? I ?I' 5-': 1
* 'xU /i -rf x - 1
, YV/v
4 >;• -t 1
# ....?
;*1
WM1fl I/¿I
*' Vi- do J
' <***
¦?/ /, '.f<s >¦<s 'i, Vca- : K> • r .y'-S ' >s&+>%: Ï f * < »
\rrS:L,,Ji• » 4 < • i <• Ç, . g* y
% %
i --- *•? S , >> Ï V > ¦ : > ,1 A - • )
£i/Ml. 1 7 
? ;
*.......!
eSÂT* >.
...?//¦, ' siv.»
Burning the midnight 
oil may be necessary. 
Burning the 2:00or 3:00 
or 4:00 AM oil is absurd. 
Especially when an HP calculator can get the 
answers you want —in time to get a good night’s 
sleep.
For instance, our HP-15C Professional Scientific Calculator 
has more built-in advanced math and statistical power than any 
other calculator. Our HP-41 Advanced Scientific Calculators have 
even more potential.
PG12602 ________________
You could 
win a bill 
just like this 
one... See 
page 14 for 
further 
details
That’s because there are better than 2500 software packages 
available for them — more than for any other calculator.
There’s even a special plug-in software package (we call it the 
Advantage Module) that’s designed to handle the specific problems 
an engineering student has to solve in his, or her, course work.
No wonder professionals in engineering and the physical sciences 
widely regard HP calculators as the best you can get.
So check one out. Then, when your mother calls to ask if you’re 
getting enough sleep, you won’t have to lie.
By the way, if you want more information, just give us a call 
at 8OO-FOR-HPPC. Ask for Dept.658C. v/'v HEWLETTtUPJk PACKARD

---------------------------------------------------

TPLITTLE ATHENS
FREE DELIVERY 
2103 Murray Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15217
422-1330
y| Open 11 AM — 11 PM All Week
WHY GO ALL THE WAY TO GREECE? 
WHEN LITTLE ATHENS CAN COME TO YOU!
MENU
6VR0S ............................................... $2.35
SHISHRRBOBS ..................................... $2.85
SHISHKRBDB DIMMER salad rice skewer of me.« pastry . . $5.60
GREEK SRLRD ..................................... $1.80
RRTICHOKE SRLRD ............................ $Z.Z6
GRRPE LERUES ................................... $Z.35
HOMMQUS chick pea dip .... ............................................ $1.40
BRBR BHRMOBE eggplant dip . • . • ...............................$1.40
GOMBinflTlOn PLRTTER rce saiad meal . ................$3.94
FRIRFIL fried ground chick peas w on ton and parsley • ¦ .................. $1.70
CHEESE & SPINRCH PIES.......... .......... $1.10
RICE PUDDING ..................................... $ .75 ^ VHS
GREEK PASTRIES ................................. $ .50
FRENCH FRIES ..................................... $ .75
Plus Tax
LUNCH DIMMER
*„^11 fiM — 2 PM 5 PM — tt PM8Q35P mass
JOBS AVAILABLE FOR DELIVERY PEOPLE. 
MUST HAVE OWN CAR.
Need A Ride Home For 
Thanksgiving ?
Not to Fear, A Phi O is here !!
A Phi O \fooQ3 5 
Thanksgiving Bus
(el Cheapo) 
to
Harrisburg
and
Philadelphia
details to follow in a later ad

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN NOW ACCEPTING 
PERSONALS!
"Looking fora lover?' 
Let us help you find one
Sell your "junk" and services in 
the Tartan Classified
Classified and Personal Ad Rates:
1 to 20 words: $300
21 to 50 words: $500 
over 50 words: $800
Bring in ads to Tartan office 
Skibo Rm 50
THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGOGRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS Students of All Majors and Fields Are Invited
to hear about our M.B.A., Ph.D., and combined-degree programs. We 
will hold several group information sessions on your campus to answer 
questions about the curriculum, admission, financial aid, and career 
opportunities in management.
Monday, October 6, 1986 
Contact Career Services and Placement for sign-ups
Special study options include the International Business Exchange Pro­
gram, and joint-degree programs as follows: M.B.A./A.M. in Far East­
ern studies, Latin American studies, Middle Eastern studies, library 
science, and social service administration; M.B.A./J.D. with the Law 
School; and M.B.A./M.D. with the Pritzker School of Medicine.
For the latest 
in Current Events, 
See the world, national and 
local news on page two.
The Associated Press
Graduate Studies Drexel University
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Each university is distinct. Drexel University’s distinc­
tion lies in its non-traditional approach to education in 
the applied arts and sciences.
Drexel offers MBA, MS, and PhD programs in business, 
biomedical and environmental engineering and sci­
ence, design arts, engineering, humanities, social 
sciences, information studies, and science. All offer 
opportunities for applied and basic research, intern­
ships, cooperative education placements, and teach­
ing and research assistantships.
Use this ad as a coupon to receive an application and 
catalog.
Name____________________________________________
Address__________________________________________
City___________________State_________Zip_________
Institution now attending___________________________
Return to: Office of Admissions, Drexel University,
32nd and Chestnut Streets, Philadelphia, PA 19104.
Or call: (215) 895-2400.
o* RICCARDO’8 °o
4626 FORBES AVE. - ( Oakland ) next to CMU 
687-1956
Late Night Special
STEAKSWISS
CHEESE
GREEN PEPPERS' MUSHROOMS 
FREE Fries and Small Drink
with the purchase of a
Philly Steak
Business Hours:
Mon.- Wed. 11-7 
Thurs.- Sat. 11-12 midnite
ONIONS
Not valid with anf other special
Thanks to you... 
it works... 
for ALL OF US Unibed Vfcy

---------------------------------------------------

September 30, 1986—The Tartan—Page Dll
¦---------
Entertainment Staff Meeting 
Tonight at 7:00 in The Tartan office 
Everyone welcome
Classifieds
The Clinical Psychology Center of 
the University of Pittsburgh provides confidential psychological counseling services at a resonalbwel fee. If you have a provblem you would like to discuss with someone call 624-4496 for more information.
Apt for Rent newly remodeled 1 bdrm apt atwood st. $300+ util 368-3262.
$EASY MONEY!! 1 will pay $25 for your phone book. Call Lee Ramsey Collect at (615)577-7237 After 6:00pm 
WANTED—Responsible person to care for infant. Flexible weekends/evenings, will provide transportation. Call 661-3090 after 
6:00.
Canon Typestar 5 Electronic 
Typewriter Letter quality, portable, like new BEST OFFER. John Ackerman 268-
2853 or 829-7678(home).
Needed: help with High Holyday
Services, whatever your skills are or whatever part you wish to take , please call Rabbi Joe, 621-8875.
SECRETARY Oakland lab needs half-time secretary, mon-fri 11:00-3:00 work inclds. WP, EBM-PC, filing, record keeping. Enjoyalbe place to work. Call 11:30-2:00, Ruth or Beth, 687-1440.
$60.00 PER HUNDRED PAID for remailing letters from home! Send Self- addressed stamped envelope for envelope for information/application. Associates, Box 95-B, Roselle, NJ 07203 
WORD PROCESSING by Professional Typist—discount to college students—will pick up and deliver, 24 hour answering
center call 653-2426.
Tartan Classifieds - Take one out today, or start Tartan Personals.
Kim’s Obsession With Her Weight
T?_—r0ne’s Loss.
:st, Dies
vith a mail-order uickly moved on to , ie explained to his
fllk 'U as bad."• he moved to NewColumbia. There he
jt of Dr. E. Wood,|ng colleague and>’ed the idea fromi developed thea clock in 1948,
keeping time forithout gaining orseconds.r. Wood said yes> ^erimenter and in a man who con*¦ Taken all togeth- .ant citizen.”
I Columbia, he mar
§ te.> began his education- .f onviction that high ¿Id be inspired by ts that were then uate schools. The hat his committee on changes in the aces, too, put into ther beliefs about
J*r »Otherstudents could • °er students, that a could nP*
à
toi
KillVu London Opei<* ~— the English coir* nas, died Wedne long illness. She Miss Matte, a v with a dramatic s' ¡“étoile," or star. 11979. Rmdal Not 
friended by Miss 
fection the the Kit 
appointed her ba. London Opera Ball' 
he became its artist Born in Belfort, F 
entered the London < and then joined the i - the role of
and as the sophomuic . attendantMs. Brown is survived by her mother, Judy; father, Tom; brothers, Patrick and
Mark; and a sister, Amy.Services will be held at the First Presby-(terian Church at 2 p.m. Saturday, July 19., The famfly will receive friends at Johnson funeral Home from 7-8 p. m. tonight.
UTTING, ^sl0J* 
[born s°Pta”°er*VaEuropean oper ^
ihus^
u \ feel numb. My friend Kim is dead and I’ve 
been trying to figure out how it could have 
happened.
“I mean, Kim was perfect. Always the best 
grades, very athletic, slim and pretty.
“And then something happened. Kim started 
losing a lot of weight. Oh, she was always 
obsessed with gaining extra pounds, but this time 
she just refused to eat.
“She got really defensive when 1 told her she 
was too thin. I felt sick inside just watching her. 
She weighed 70 pounds and looked like someone 
from those awful pictures of prison camps.
“When some diet pills fell out of her purse and 
1 asked about them, she started screaming at me
one day Kim didn’t show up for class.
I called her family and they told me Kim was in
the hospital.
“When I finally worked up the nerve to go and
see her, Kim was unconscious. A week later, she
died. How could she do this? How could she
starve herself to death?** t_ . e—fill, 17, friend of anorexic
Like Kim, someone you love may be facing the 
devastating effects of an eating disorder. Please
don’t try to handle this problem alone.
At The Medical Center we’ve developed a 
comprehensive program to meet the special 
needs of patients with eating disorders. Through 
our Tri-State Eating Disorders Center, we’ve 
helped both patients and their families under­
stand and cope with these life-threatening 
disorders.
For confidential information, call toll free 
1-800-622-2832 in Pennsylvania; 1-800-782-2832 
outside Pennsylvania. Professionals are available to 
answer your questions 24 hours a day.
Don’t let an eating disorder consume 
another life
Tri-State Eating Disorders Center At The Medical CenterBeaver, PA, Inc.
1000 Dutch Ridge Road/Beaver, Pennsylvania 15009

---------------------------------------------------

Page D12—The Tartan—September 30, 1986
Announcements
Richard M. Cyert will have open office hours for students between 3 pm and 5 pm on Friday, October 10, in his office, 602 Warner Hall. Students who wish to meet with the president should telephone his secretary at 268-2200 to set up an appointment.
RUACH (Herbrew for Spirit) is a social and community event organization affiliated with the Jewish University Center. Come meet us at an Ice Cream Break, Oct 1 at 8 pm in PH131B.
Library Schedule: Hunt Library:
Monday - Thursday, 8 am - 3 am; Friday, 8 
am - midnight; Saturday, 9 am - midnight; 
Sunday, noon - 3 am. *
Engineering and Science Library: Monday -
Thursday, 8 am - midnight; Friday, 8 am - 6 
pm; Saturday, 9 am - 9 pm; Sunday, 10 am - 
midnight.
Mellon Institute Library: Monday - Friday, 
8:30 am - 5 pm; Saturday and Sunday, 
closed. Audio-Visual Services: Monday -
Thursday, 8:30 am - 11 pm; Friday, 8:30 
am - 5 pm; Saturday, noon - 5 pm; Sunday, 
noon - 11 pm.The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy
celebrates mass on campus at 12:30 pm, 
Monday through Friday in Skibo room 39; 7 
pm, Saturdays and 10:30 am, Sundays in the 
Graduate School of Industrial Administration 
Auditorium. A solemn mass is celebrated at 
noon on Sundays in Heinz Chapel. For 
more information call 681-3181.Pittsburgh Playhouse JuniorChildren's Theatre. Jack and the Beanstalk. Do you know what A-D-V-E-N-T- U-R-E spells? Well, that's what happens to Jack when he climbs the beanstalk! See Jack battle the Giant! See the Giant's wacky wife! See the living Harp that comes to Jack's aid! It's high flying adventure with a lot of surprises at 11 am and 2:30 pm, Saturdays; and 2:30 pm, Sundays, October 4 through November 16.
Events30
Tuesday
Workshops
Interviewing Seminar. Get the
employers perspective of the interviewing 
process. A special panel of Pittsburgh 
recruiters are on campus to share their 
insights at 7:30 pm in Skibo Ballroom.
Special Events
French Table. The Modem Languages 
Program sponsors a French Language table 
at 11:30 am in the Morewood Dining Hall. 
Democratic Socialists of America
meet at 5:30-7:00 in Skibo 112. Jerry 
Starr, a professor at West Virginia 
University, will speak on "Student Politics 
in America." A short business meeting will 
follow. Join the country's largest
progressive student organization. Work for 
change, and have fun too! Refreshments will 
be served.
1
Wednesday
Movies
The Big Sleep, starring Humphrey 
Bogart and Lauren Bacall. A masterpiece of 
the detective film genre. Bogart goes to
work for a retired military man who has two 
daughters: one is a sultry Bacall; the other
sucks her thumb. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95. 
German Film Series: Einer Von Uns
Beiden. Adamson Wing, BH at 7 pm. 
Admission is free.
Lectures
Architecture Seminar. Nino Saggio
speaks on "Elderly Housing" at noon in 
CFA 206.
Career Decision Making Series-
è 14 DAYS
v T0A
HEALTHY HEART
SPEAKER/TOPIC:
A program by Dr. Frederick T. Zugibe,M.D.,Ph.D for change 
that incorporates the five major areas of optimium heart and 
health care:
EXERCISE SMOKING STRESS
DIET BLOOD PRESSURE
WHERE:
WHEN:
LUNCH:
SKIBO BALLROOM
12 Noon - October 3,1986
Bring your lunch or purchase a healthy 
"Lunch to go" from ^ 
for $3.00. OCOt
(Pita sandwich, cheese, mushrooms, sprouts, 
apple, yogurt & So-Ho, oil natural Soda).
Call Scatlend Yard X 4965 to place your order for the Healthy Lunch and 
bring It to the Dell room to heor Dr. Zuglbe____________
Anyone, in just 14 days, con leom ond adopt e lifetime of sound habits 
for the heart and for physical well-being. Dr. Zuglbe offers, with 14 
DAYS TO A HEALTHY HEART, o challenge to Increase the chance for a 
longer, healthier llfe—end to start now.
Junior and Senior Section. A four-session 
seminar designed to help you assess your 
interests and abilities, explore current career 
interests as well as new ideas and form goals 
and strategies at 3:30 pm in Skibo room 
112. Limited enrollment. Sign up at Career 
Services, x2064.
Pittsburgh High Tech Job Fair.
Students have the opportunity to speak 
with recruiters from over two dozen leading 
Pittsburgh high-tech companies involved in 
advanced materials, materials processing, 
computer hardware and software, artificial 
intelligence, electronic components, 
industrial automation and medical/biomedical 
technology. Sponsored by the Pittsburgh 
High Technology Council at 10 am in Skibo 
Ballroom.
Special Events
Spanish Table. The Modem Languages 
Program sponsors a Spanish Language table 
at 11:30 am in the Morewood Dining Hall.
2
Thursday
Movies
Diva, starring Frederick Andrei and 
Wilhelmenis Wiggins Fernandez. A comedy- 
thriller about a French postman who falls in 
love with an American opera singer and gets 
mixed up with criminals. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:40 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
A Star is Born, sponsored by AB Films. 
DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8:30 pm and 11 pm. 
Admission $1.
Lectures
Health Professions Club: Dr. Andrew
Krovskop, staff physician at Harmarville 
Rehabilitation Center, will be speaking at 
our meeting on Oct. 2 at 7:30 in Scaife Hall 
324. He is a 1954 graduate if CMU and 
received his M.D. from Temple Medical 
School.
Workshops
Resume Writing. Get your resume off 
the ground by learning some basic 
guidelines. See examples and conduct a 
resume critique as if you were the personnel 
officer at 4:30 pm in Skibo room 12.
Special Events
German Table. The Modem Languages 
Program sponsors a German Language table 
at 11:30 am in the Morewood Dining Hall.3
Friday
Movies
Body Heat, starring William Hurt, 
Kathleen Turner, Richard Crenna and Mickey 
Rourke. A very moody and sexy tale of a 
wife and her lover and their murderous plans. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm 
and 11:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
The Householder. The story, told with a 
delightfully comic touch, concerns two 
young Indians who find themselves coming 
to grips with the realities of an arranged 
marriage. The central theme explores the 
confrontation between new and old ideas 
Carnegie Institute at 8 pm. Admission 
$3.00.
Down & Out in Beverly Hills, 
sponsored by AB Films. DH 2210 at 6 pm, 
8 pm, 10 pm and midnight. Admission $1.4
Saturday
Movies
A Night at the Opera, starring The
Marx Brothers, Margaret Dumont, Sig
Rumann, Kitty Carlisle and Allan Jones. A 
comic masterpiece as the Marx Brothers do a 
number on opera in perhaps their finest 
film. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm,
9:30 pm and 11:30 pm. Admission $2.95. 
Ladyhawke, sponsored by SDC Films. DH
2210 at 6 pm, 8:30 pm and 11 pm.
Admission $1.5
Sunday
Movies
La Traviata, starring Teresa Stratas, 
Plácido Domingo and Cornell MacNeil. 
Lavish, but well done Verdi opera with 
James Levine and the Metropolitan Opera 
Orchestra and Chorus. Pittsburgh Playhouse 
$2.95
Europe in Film Series: Rules of the
Game. An extraordinarily powerful satire of 
the decadence and self-destructive forces 
within French upper-class society on the eve 
of World War II. Adamson Wing, BH at 3 
pm. Admission is free.
The Holy Grail, sponsored by AB Films. 
DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and 
midnight. Admission $1.
6
Monday
Movies
Dr. Zhivago, starring Omar Sharif, Julie 
Christie, Rod Steiger and Alec Guinness. 
Epic film adaptation of Boris Pasternak's
novel about the Russian Revolution. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Workshops
How to Make the Most of Your
Summer. Find answers to questions like:
How do I look for a summer job? What are 
some of the avenues I should pursue? How 
do I find out what's "out there?" And who 
do I market myself to? at 4:30 pm in Skibo 
room 12.
Career Decision Making Series-
Junior and Senior Section. A four-session 
seminar designed to help you assess your 
interests and abilities, explore current career 
interests as well as new ideas and form goals 
and strategies at 3:30 pm in Skibo room 
112. Limited enrollment. Sign up at Career 
Services, x2064.
SenaSSt PsDc
406 S.CRAIG ST. 62 I-HAIR

---------------------------------------------------

FAST FREE DELIVERY
CALI FOR FREE DELIVERY 12 NOON TO 17 MIDNIGH
if our dough made FRESH doily
810 IVY STREET • SHADYSIDI
682-3333 ,FREE DELIVERY TO:
• Shodyside • Pt. Breeze • ¦
• Sq. Hill • Oakland •
• Friendship Park • U
• Bloomfield •
• Highland ParJ^^^^
Mozart Joins Weekend 
... Class.
Just what is Weekend Class? 
Relax, it's not more school. 
It's a chance to enjoy the 
Pittsburgh Symphony at unbeliev­
able student discounts. Mozart 
is just one of the music masters 
we've lined up this season 
to make Weekend Class a 
memorable experience.
I ¿V Now, for $28 you can sub- 
scribe to 7 Sunday after- 
klB \ noon concerts hand 
^yUl picked to fit your
Fall and Spring 
tttCsnbyyd semesters. That's
on^ a concert.
¦Kt-W B.T, ^or even moreSkr^' y enjoyment, call 
392-4821 and ask 
SSppti about our 12-concert 
« Sunday afternoon or
Uli Friday evening series
for only $72, or 
24 Friday evening 
§1 concerts for $96.
FREE DELIVERY ULLLZ. J+LL.
COUPON
Large Cheese Pizza
$3.99 
Free liter of coke
(All sandwiches come with n.elted provoione cheese and are OVEN-BAKED)
Italian Hoagie......................................................4.00
Vi Hoagie................................................................ 2.00
Hot Sausage.........................................................3.90
Meat Ball.....................................................................3.90
Cheese Hoagie...................................................3.20
Steak Hoagie..........................................................4.20
Pizza Steak Hoagie........................................4.2O
Cold Sub.................................................................... 4.00
Capicolla (Deluxe)...........................................4.70
(Real Italian Capicolla with Green 
Peppers, Mushrooms & that Special Touch) 
(All topped with fresh lettuce, tomato, onion unless specified) 
(Green Peppers or Mushrooms — 25* Extra)
OCTB
7 Sunday Afternoon Concerts at Heinz Hall for only $28
We were looking for new 
shades when I realized it 
was time to do some­
thing about my hair. You 
know, my hair was 
driving me crazy. So, we 
cruised right into Great 
Expectations. Now with 
my new cut, my hair is 
driving Bobby crazy.
Customers: Sue and Bob, 
inseparable ever since.
Oct. 5 Zdenek Macal conducts Beethoven, Mozart,
Prokofiev and Respighi; Alicia de Larrocha, pianist
Oct. 19 Adam Fischer conducts Berio, Bartók and Kodaly; 
Katia and Marielle Labeque, pianists.
Nov. 30 Charles Dutoit conducts Mozart, Liszt and 
Stravinsky; Hai-Kyung Suh, pianist.
Jan. 25 Michael Tilson Thomas conducts Sibelius and 
Rachmaninov; Cho-Liang Lin, violinist.
Feb. 8 Michael Lankester conducts Shubert,
Comolete_ with shampoo 
and blow style.Complete with written guarantee
Ellen Taaffe Zwilich and Tchaikovsky;
Marc-Andre Hamelin, pianist.
Feb. 22 David Zinman conducts Dvorak and Elgar; 
Shlomo Mintz, violinist.
Mar. 15 Christoph Eschenbach conducts Schumann and 
Dvorak; Justus Frantz, pianist.
Concerts 
begin at 2:30
THE PITTSBURGH 
SYMPHONY
All major credit cards 
accepted. To order 
call (412) 392-4821
r
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED 
Gfeat Styles Starter!
MUST HAVE COUPON
NO
APPOWTfctNT
NECESSAR>
“I
I
L
SAVE $2.00
on a
PRECISION HAIRCUT
Complete with shampoo A styling 
Offer expires: ___
aer.«..iM ÜWCTnWB
PRECISION HAMCUTTERS
I
&UMTcRfommtns.
WrVz"g"to -e"rzkn nVrg
237 Atwood Street Across the street from Oakland Post Office
687-3500
‘j

---------------------------------------------------

Air Force recruiting "plane” made a 
youngsters.
Westmorland county airport was 
the site of the 10th anniversary of 
.he county air show, as well as 
America’s Air Force Day. This 
past Saturday, The Thunderbirds, 
the Air Force precision flying team 
thrilled crowds with their daredevil 
maneuvers.
A Marine corps Harrier showed 
the potential of a vertical takeoff 
and landing aircraft. In addition, a 
lost of other smaller aircraft such 
as the two high performance 
Diplanes; Clancy Speal's Pitts 
Special and Jim Parker's American 
Eagle provided for a trip into the 
past of aviation’s barnstorming 
jays. A Stetson Gullwing, SNJ,
A close-up view of a Harrier.
AIRSHOWS. 
You can't tell enough about them. 
You have to see them. 
It is the past, the present, the future. 
It is airplanes, machines, pilots, crews, 
Friends, family, children's smiling faces, 
People. 
There is food, music, 
Danger, thrills, screams of the crowd, 
But above all, 
There is the lure of aviation.
Thunderbirds, Harrier, and Biplanes Thrill at Westmoreland County Airshow
A cool breeze sweeps over the suit up, and make their way into
AT-6 and an Aerostar provided a 
fly-by.
The Air national guard had a C- 
130 demonstrate a Short Field 
Assualt landing and takeoff. This 
large seemingly cumbersome 
aircraft is capable of delivering 
large volumes of supplies, men, 
and equipment to the front lines. 
It can take off and land on rough 
surfaces and in a very short 
distance. They also provided an 
A-10 fighter and C-130 cargo plane 
for people to climb on and view.
The annual show attracted 
thousands to the small airport in 
Latrobe, PA, about 30 miles east 
of Pgh.
flightline. The dull grey clouds 
match the color of the tarmac. The 
sun peeks out over the 
Westmoreland County Aerodrome.
A group of six officers in crisp 
blue uniforms march in formation 
to their planes. The craft are sleek 
red, white and blue colored General 
Dynamics F-16 Fighting Falcons, 
dubbed The Thunderbirds. These 
are some of the most advanced 
high performance fighter aircraft in 
the world. The pilots, in unison,
their craft
The canopies drop, and the sharp 
whine of a Pratt and Whitney 
afterburning turbofan engine comes 
to life. With a salute from the 
commander, the first two planes 
taxi out to the runway and 
commence their take-off roll. The 
scream of their engines, on full 
afterburner, shakes not only the 
ground, but your insides.
Once in the air, the six U. S. 
Air Force Thunderbirds commence
Air Force Thunderbird F-16 crews preparing for Flight
"The Scream of 
their engines on 
full afterburner 
shakes not only the 
ground, but your 
insides..."
Articles and Photos By Albrecht T. Powell
Tartan Production Manager
one of the most amazing and 
exhilarating feats of aviation ever 
seen. Their supersonic aircraft roar 
back and forth over the crowds 
engaging in awe-striking feats of 
precision flying. Four of the 
planes form a diamond formation 
and spend half of the 30 minute 
show doing rolls, loops, dives, and 
other assorted maneuvers as one. 
Simultaneously, the two opposing 
solos approach from either side on 
a seemingly collision course and 
pass, canopy to canopy only feet 
apart. The crowd screams and the 
pilots seem to react by doing 
another more dangerous stunt 
Then, after a diamond pitchup, the 
six planes make their approach 
back to the field. Their landing is, 
as to be expected, precision and in 
formation. They taxi to their tie­
down areas and jump out in 
unison. The pilots and their 
respective crews then offer 
themselves for autographs and to 
talk to the crowd.
It's a hectic and demanding 
schedule, requiring the utmost in 
ability and performance. They are 
committed to representing the best 
in today's Air Force. They expect 
nothing more and the American 
public deserves nothing less.
Marines Harrier lands vertically behind the Thunderbirds.
VTOL Harrier stops in mid-flight
Clancy Speal and his acrobatic Pitts Special Biplane
Taking off in virtually vertically, 
the U.S. Marine Corps Harrier jet 
surprised the crowds with a unique 
display of it's VTOL (vertical take­
off and landing) capabilities.
The plane gave a fifteen minute 
demonstration including coming to 
a complete stop in mid-flight, 
turning 360's in both directions 
while hovering in one place, 
backward flight, and vertical lifts. 
This plane, first introduced in 
Great Britain, provides a great 
advantage in a conventional dog­
fight due to its ability to rise 
vertically from the ground, or
The Air Force F-16 Thunderbirds in Diamond Formation
Pitts Biplanes 
and World War I
Clancy Speal and his Pitts 
Special, a very aerobatic and 
maneuverable biplane, was one of 
the traditional features of the 
airshow. Clancy's dad, Dan Speal 
was the first airshow at this 
airport eleven years ago.
Clancy started off the aerobatic 
portion of the show, which is 
basically the same as his dad's was 
years ago, with a series of classic 
circa World War I dog-fight 
maneuvers including loops, 
hammerhead turns, rolls, 
lomchevaks, and something they 
said couldn’t be done - a serrated 
knife edge pass. This included 
flying the biplane sideways and 
waggling the wings up and down.
Clancy was followed by Jim 
Parker in his American Eagle, a 
similar Pitts S2-S biplane. The 
pinnacle of his performance was 
rolling the Pitts upside down and 
cutting a ribbon suspended only 16 
feet above the runway. The plane 
is capable of withstanding "G" 
forces in excess of 9 positive and 9 
negative, and has won virtually 
every contest in the world.
These two biplanes reminded 
everyone of the history of the 
aircraft as well as the advancements 
we have made since powered flight 
began almost 90-years 3ga - - - *
inmaneuver unconventionally 
mid flight
The secret to it's unexcelled 
maneuverability rests in the design 
of its powerplant Instead of a 
conventional rear engine, it has 
four swiveling outlets on the 
fueslage side. These, combined 
with the pilots skill, can cause the 
thrust of the plane to match it’s 
weight, hence still flight!
As a conventional fighter, the 
Harrier's performance is 
comparable to contemportary 
subsonic fighters and is able to 
•exceed Mach 1:3 in a-dive:.............

---------------------------------------------------

CMUComputer Store
SPECIAL OFFERNEW DptaSaver™ diskette filer. Only $5.95 when you buy 2 boxes of 5%3M diskettes.
Save $6.00- 
an $11.95 value!*
5 Î4" 3M diskettes DS/DD $13.00 
SS/DD $10.50
UJomen’s Health Services.
• FREE PREGNANCY TESTING
Oakland—Rm. 212. 3520 Forbes Ave.
Downtown—3rd floor, 107 6th St.
• ABORTION SERVICES
• BIRTH CONTROL & GYNE CARE
For Your WHS SURVIVAL KIT, Fill Out & Mail Coupon To: 
Women's Health Services, 107 6th St., Pittsburgh, PA 15222 
Telephone: (412) 562-1900 
Toll Free: 1 (800) 323-4636
WHS Survival Kit
Name_________________________________________________________
Street___________________________________________________________
City________________________State ____________Zip ___________
College (if student) ______________________________
Mail to. WHS, 107 6th St., Pittsburgh, PA 15222
PLAN HOLIDAY TRAVEL 
ARRANGEMENTS NOW 
TO AVOID 
DISSAPOINTMENT!
zewwzz CMU DirectrUrlDuO V9QQQTRAVEL cT521-7300
HELP AT CRITICAL TIMES
CMU Counseling & Student Development Center...............268*2922
After 5:00 p.m., an answering service operator will help you reach 
the staff member on call.
CONTACT Pittsburgh................;...............................................782-4023
24 hour telephone counseling, crisis intervention, and supportive 
listening.
Drug Connection..'.....................................................................854-0700
An alcohol/drug crisis hotline, 5—9 p.m.
Tel-Aid...........................................................................................281-4664
A series of taped information on medical, legal, consumer, and safe­
ty issues. Lists of titles appear in the blue pages of the Pittsburgh 
telephone directory.
Counseling and Student Development Center, a division of Student Affairs.
Arnold Air Society"
First 
Pledge Meeting
Thursday
2 October 1986 
7:30 p.m.
Upstairs of Adamson Wing 
Baker Hall
^AH interested AFRQTC Cadets Invited to Attend. J
SORRENTO’S PIZZA
Atwood St. Across From Post Office
WE DELIVER FREE#621-9129
Thin Crust Pizza 
Thick Crust Pizza 
— Calzones - Hoagies — 
Pizza Bagels
Dinners
Special: 
Large Pizza 
$4.50
Expresso and 
Cappucino Coffee

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14—The Tartan—September 30, 1986
Get Rich Real Quick
By JOSH LEVINE
Tartan Features Editor
One hundred dollars will belong to 
whoever finds it first. Where is it? That's 
for me to know and you to figure out. Each 
week I will make up new clues leading 
you to the big bucks. The contest will 
continue until the prize is found.
First, let me tell you where the money 
isn't. It's not anywhere that you would have 
to hurt yourself to get it. You won't have 
to break down any doors either. This is a 
contest of brains, not brawn.
Don’t expect to solve every clue, you 
won’t need to, but for each clue you do 
solve, your search will be narrowed 
considerably.
Even though I really hope no one finds 
v-v. money after just one week, I assure you 
r: it very possible. In fact, the answers to 
the first two clues, if you knew them, 
would narrow your search down to about 
two cubic feet.
Now say you do solve one of the clues. 
First I'd like to congradulate you for that is 
quite an accomplishment. Second, I'd like 
to warn you. You have two choices: You 
couxd run outside screaming with ecstasy, 
showing all the world that you are superior 
to their minor intellect; or you could be 
smart and just quietly smile to yourself. 
You see, the more people who know the 
answer, the less chance you will have. It is 
better to walk softly, and win.
Rules, always rules. I'm not stupid, I 
know that there are many people who 
might, temporarily, forget everything their 
high school gym teachers taught them 
about fair play. But be assured, I have taken 
ample precautions aginst such practices. I
will check up on everything. If, by chance, 
I find anything unkosher going on, I'll go 
pick up the money, invite a lovely young 
woman (of my chosing) to the most 
expensive restuarant I can find and thus 
liquidate the prize while ending the games. 
But don't get your hopes up ladies, I am 
confident that the high integrity (and greed) 
of our readership will preclude all chances 
of such.
Don't cheat. If I find out about any 
cheating, I will announce the name and 
telephone number of the offender and leave 
it up to the one or two computer freaks on 
campus to see to it he is properly chastized. 
What would your parents say to an $11,000 
MCI bill? "Why don’t you find a girlfriend 
a little closer to home?"
The money is mine. My fellow Editors 
didn't approve this merriment. I’m out on a 
limb, and you hold the saw. If this goes 
well, I can see in the not so distant future a 
FIND THE FERRARI contest, but if you 
guys make trouble, it will be all over, and I 
will be out $100. No fun.
Why? Sure, I could just go out and buy 
that 1897 vintage Don Perignon and enjoy 
it with someone special, but the magic 
moment would soon pass and I would 
quickly confront my life of mediocrity once 
again.
Instead, I have chosen the wiser route. 
With the announcement of this 
ingrantzment, I raise myself to the level of 
popularity normally attained only by 
people much cooler than myself. My name 
will be known, my company will be 
welcomed, and I will be happy, at least 
until the prize is found. I see it as a rental 
situation. After all, friends are a bargin at 
any price.
Clue Number One-
William Sydney and Katherine were related.
How were they related?
Clue Number Two;
They left Vicksburg, bound for Jackson.
How did they get there?
Official Rules
1. This contest is open to members 
of the CMU community, including 
students, staff, and their guests.
2. Excluded from this contest are 
members of the Tartan staff and their 
immediate families. Also excluded are 
all of my roomates and Mike 
Lewicki.
3. The first prize is one hundred 
dollars cash money. The prize has 
been placed on or about the general 
CMU campus.
4. The contest will be considered over 
when the prize is found. I will also award 
a second and third prize consiting of at 
least two free passes to the Buhl Science 
center’s Laserarium and anything else I 
can find that you want.
5. This contest may be prematurly 
terminated at my personal discretion.
I will exercise this privilage at anytime 
I feel the contest is promoting negitave 
actions on the part of the participants.
In such case, the prize money will be 
despensed in such manner as described 
in the accompanying article.
Due to the recent box-office success of the movies "Top 
Gun" and "Aliens", we will be unable to show these films 
this semester. In their place, we will show these movies 
on the following dates:
October 17 Back to School 
October 31 Ruthless People
Please make a note of these changes.
Pat McMullen 
AB Friday Films Chairman

---------------------------------------------------

WW^TT . .-^JV-gagHa^^
$25 Off
We’ve just taken what’s already a terrific discount available to you on your 
college campus and made it even better. On the only complete software for the 
Apple® Macintosh™ personal computer. Fill out the coupon below and send 
it along with your dated store receipt, completed Jazz® registration card and 
the bar code label from the bottom of the Jazz package to:
Lotus Development Corporation, P.O. Box 3006, Cambridge, MA 02139.
Name_
Address. 
City----
.? Student 
.? Faculty 
.? Staff
Lotus Jazz
Five function software for the Apple Macintosh integrating spreadsheet, graphics, ward processing, database and communications.This offer applies to students, faculty and staff purchasing with personal funds. Institutional purchases do not apply. Offer expires December 31, 1986 Mailings which do not include the four items listed above will not be honored No facsimiles accepted. Allow 6-8 weeks delivery.
B. ANDREW JANOFF, M.D.
IS PLEASED TO ANNOUNCE THE OPENING OF HIS 
SQUIRREL HILL OFFICE 
FOR THE PRACTICE OF 
OBSTETRICS AND GYNECOLOGY
Ultrasonography Aminocentesis 
Chorionic Villi Sampling • In-Vitro Fertilization 
Genetic Counseling
AT
1900 MURRAY AVENUE, SUITE 301
OFFICE HOURS BY APPOINTMENT TELEPHONE (412) 422-5000
STUDENT DISCOUNT WITH I.D.
3 TUTORS NEEDED:
1. CHEMISTRY-
7 to 10p.m. Tuesday
2. FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING- 
7 to 10p.m. Wednesday
3. ECONOMICS-
7 to 10p.m. SundayWALK-IN TUTORING PROGRAM $3.50 Per Hour Please call Dr. Hickey X2922
FREE WALK-IN TUTORING
Each Week
Sunday through Thursday —7pm -10pm
-Calculus 
(Pre, I, II, III)
PH 126 A
-PhysicsPH 126B
-ChemistryPH 126C
-Academic Writing Problems,PH 125B
-Financial AccountingPH 226B
-EconomicsPH226C
-Intro. To ComputingWeH 5415
Study Techniques Seminar:
A peer counselor will present in-class strategies: 
understanding, note-taking, and follow-up. 
Saturday October 4 llam-Noon, Skibo 12.
-Sponsored by Counseling and Student Development Center Division of Student Affairs

---------------------------------------------------

Fun,
Fun,
Fun,
Fun,
Features.
Write for 
Features 
Today, 
tomarow, 
Everyday.
Enjoy life, 
You are 
important 
to me.
I need you.
CALL joshua ANYTIME AT WORK x2111
FOR ANY REASON AT PLAY x4370
CMU 
Computer Store
CMU Computer Store: UCC - A level
Phone: x2636 MM: PSOO@TE 
For a current price list: Type HELP COMPUTER-STORE-PRICES on any TOPS
System.
IBM PC Convertible
Features:»256k user memory (expandable to 512k) •Two 720k 3 1/2" diskette drives?Adjustable liquid crystal display
System Price:
Options:Convertible Printer Serial/Parallel Adapter Ext. Monochrome Display Ext. Display Adapter Internal 1200b Modem 128k Memory Expansion
$1360.00
$237.00157.00144.00261.00360.00157.00
rCAPRI PIZZA
3415Forbes Avenue (near Magee Hospital) • Oakland
CALL US TODAY 681-2202OPEN
SUNDAY thru WEDNESDAY OPEN TILL 2 AM
THURSDAY, FRIDAY & SATURDAY OPEN TILL 3 AM
W* ..................................................................—--------------------------------------------
*We Deliver/Limited Area
PIZZA
CUTS PLAIN CHEESE 
JUNIOR 4 2.50
SMALL 6 3.25
MEDIUM 8 4.00
k LARGE PIZZA - SEE SPECIAL ? 
X-LARGE 12 5.50
TOPPINGS
P«pp*rMN, MwsbrMmi, Groii P*pp«rs, iitr* Checst 
(Mm, yGCHuR Audio*«», Black Oliv«i
PROVOLONE STICKS...............................1.25
EGG ROLLS.........................................................73‘
FRENCH FRIES...................................................75*
BREADED MUSHROOMS.........................1.23
WE SERVE
LIQUOR, BEER, & WINE
(6 Packs to Go)
HOAGIES
WHOLE HALF
ITALIAN................................3.40 1.95
SALAMI................................3.40 1.95
CAPICOLLO.......................3.40 1.95
HAM & CHEESE.................3.40 1.95
STEAK....................................3.60 1.99
HOT SAUSAGE..................3.60 1.99
MUSHROOM STEAK . . 3.75 1.99
FISH HOAGIE.....................3.75 1.99
SALADS
FRESH TOSSED SALAD................................1.99
FRESH GREEK SALAD..................................2.19
CALL FOR TAKE OUT 681-2202 
FAST. FRIENDLY DELIVERY

---------------------------------------------------

September 30, 1986—The Tartan—Page 17
Back By Popular Demand...The IM Report
Touch FootballCross-CountrySix Person VolleyballIM Football Standings
CommissionersCommissioner—Paul Pecora 621-9124We need a commissioner.(In alphabetical order)
Major—Paul Pecora 621-9124The 1986 IM Cross-Country Meet willEntries are due on October 16th at 4:30WonLost
Intermediate—Vic Banko X5403be held Thursday, October 9th at 4:30 p.m.p.m. League play will be started as soon asMajors
Minors—Vince Carozza X5494on Flagstaff Hill.Co-Rec Volleyball competition isATO10
Women—Dee NyzioThere will be special heats for Womencompleted.Beta01
Due to the unplayable conditions of theOnly and Faculty and Staff members.Crunch Bunch10
IM fields, many games will be rescheduledEveryone is welcome to run the 1.9 mileBowlingKappa Sig01
to be played on Sundays.Cross-Country course. You can run as partCommissioner—Vince CarozzaPIKA10
Major League teams please pick upof a 5 person team or as an individual.We will bowl at Strand Lanes.SUPA01
revised Touch Football schedules in IMYou must pay half of bowling fees when
Office. DU and TX are now in the MajorChessyou roll your first game—$45.00. Cost perIntermediate"A"
League.Commissioner—Stuart Fox X4259line $1.00 per team - average $90 andDU A0
Weather permitting, lines will be on theLAST CALL! September 29. Matchesplayoff.Phi Kap11
Touch Football fields.will start next week.Crabs00
Last call for Women's Touch FootballRacquetballSUPA Tigers01
League.WaterpoloThe final entry date is Thursday, OctoberCIA10
Is*Commissioner—Hal Levine X40772nd at 4:30 pm. The league needs aSAE B 10
TennisLAST CALL—final entry date Septembercomissioner.Titans01
Commissioner—Rob Schlackman X551825.Meat Mansion01
Schedules are out and please play gamesSign up practice time on IM bulletinTeam Table Tennis
as scheduled.board. Games will begin Monday, OctoberThe final entry date is Thursday, OctoberIntermediate 1"B"
The winner must turn in the scores to the6th at 9:15 p.m. and 10 p.m.2nd at 4:30 p.m. The league needs aCMAPPERS02
IM Office within 24 hours after the game iscommissioner.IC Slammers22
played. Pick up results sheets in IMSoccerBoys of Sum.12
Office.Entries have been set back to OctoberNext IM Board MeetingThetaXi30
16th. Special league for Women. Sign upThursday, October 2nd 12:30Air Scobell02
Co-Rec Volleyballyour team now! We need a commissioner.p.m. in Gym Conference Room.GSIA 1st Yrs.20
Commissioner—Kevin Neel X4618The Squad01
Schedules are out and can be picked up in 
IM Office. Please note winning team on 
the score sheet.
Please take down all equipment following 
the last game of the evening.
Best
performing 
scooter for 
its size.
The Yamaha Riva Jog is 
the highest performing 
50cc scooter made.
Plus, you get to go 
in style. The Jog looks 
great with bright bold 
colors for ’86.
And, it gets great gas 
mileage. But who says 
economical has to mean 
uncomfortable. The Jog 
offers comfortable seat­
ing with a wide step- 
through floorboard 
to boot.The Riva Jog has a lot 
of other features to offer, 
including automatic 
transmission, electric 
start and a complete line 
of accessory items. And 
we have a lot of other 
Yamaha Riva models to 
choose from.So, come in today. It 
costs nothing to look, 
and not much more 
to own.
Bob Tracy's 
World of Cycles 
8070 Ohio River B1 
766-9211
Meet America’s Top-rated Aerospace Employer.
Talk with our representatives about why in 1985 The Almanac of American 
Employers rated Lockheed second overall among America’s largest, successful companies. Tbps among aerospace firms. And talk about career opportunities at Lockheed. And about our famed “Skunk Works” facility where we developed the SR-71 Blackbird, an aircraft so advanced, it’s still the world’s fastest, highest flying airplane in sustained flight.
Just sign up in your placement office and mark these dates on your calendar:Presentation — October 9 Interviews — October 10You’ll see why we’re a company with a remarkable history. And a future as prom­ising as your own.Lockheed is an equal opportunity, affir­mative action employer. U.S. citizenship is required.
r=^Ljockheed California Company
InnovationQlving shape to Imagination.
SKUNK WORKS and the skunk design are registered service marks of the Lockheed Corporation. O 1986 Lockheed Corporation

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18—The Tartan—September 30, 1986U. of Pittsburgh Trounces Tennis
By NEAL LEVINE
Tartan Sportswriter
On Thursday CMU’s men's tennis team 
lost 8-1 to the University of Pittsburgh's 
team in a preseason match-up. The Tartans' 
preseason record is now 0-2.
The only Carnegie Mellon win came in 
the #2 doubles match of Rob Schlackman 
and Jay Stevens against Pitt's Vivek Kumar 
and Dan Varner.
Stevens played the match with a sprained 
ligament and a fairly large blister on his 
foot Neither injury seemed to be a major 
problem for Stevens, and the Schlackman- 
Stevens team dominated play. The final 
scores were 6-2, 7-5 in favor CMU.
This was the first time since last fall that 
the two players had been able to play 
together in a doubles match. Last fall 
Schlackman and Stevens were regular 
doubles partners during the preseason. 
They felt they made a good team, and they 
say that they enjoy playing together. 
Schlackman attributed their victory to their 
attitude. "We had an all or nothing attitude, 
and it paid off."
Both players see their win as a great 
confidence builder since Pitt is a Division I 
team while the Tartan’s are in Division III. 
Normally Pitt would be favored because of 
the tougher opponents they face as well as 
the larger student pool from which Pitt's 
coach can choose his team. Schlackman and 
Stevens see their win as a preview for a 
successful upcoming spring season.
Carnegie Mellon's #1 player Keith 
Grumet still has not reported for any of the 
preseason matches, therefore, all the other 
players moved up one ranking. In addition 
Dave Dillon, A1 Margarella, and Ira Rubien
were all unable to make the Pitt match so 
Jay Stevens, Russ Riben, and Eric Kwan 
played in the #4, #5, and #6 singles 
positions respectively.
At game time, Pitt had not had their 
challenge matches that determine at what 
position each player will play. As a result, 
several CMU players faced opponents of 
considerably higher rank. In the #5 position 
Russ Riben, who played very well in an 
exhibition match last week, faced Jeff 
Dadowski. Last year Dadowski played #1 
singles for the Panthers. Riben lost the 
match 3-6, 1-6. He thought he had played 
an exceptional match especially against a 
#1 player for a Division I school.
In #1 singles, Graham McAfee lost a 
disappointing 6-4, 4-6, 0-6 match to Pitt’s 
Neil Meyerowich. Graham looked very 
strong in the first set. The second set 
seemed fairly even as well. Unfortunately, 
after such an extremely hard fought match, 
MacAfee was blanked in a very quick third 
set
Darin Kaplin played #2 singles this week. 
Kaplin appeared dressed in short tennis 
shorts hardly covering his baggy ATA 
boxer shorts. He intended this week's attire 
to psych out his oponent, and he was 
disappointed that his boxer’s did not 
perform their psychological task as he lost 
his match 1-6, 1-6 to his opponent Paul 
Maben. Last week Kaplin had one of the 
two wins for the Tartans in #3 singles.
Coach Hawk still predicts a good finish 
for his players this upcoming spring. He 
stated, "I view these fall matches as 
scrimmages. My strongest line-up is not 
in today. I'm trying to get a look at as 
many different players in match situations 
as possible." On October 3-5 the Tartan
men will compete in the Slippery Rock 
Invitational.
In women's tennis on Monday, the 
Carnegie Mellon team shut out the 
opposing Bethany team in a 9-0 victory. 
This brings their season record to 3-1. The 
entire line-up contributed to double 
victories in both singles and doubles 
matches. So far this season the Tartan 
women have only lost one doubles match.
Suzi Dottor continued her undefeated season 
with her wins making her current record 8- 
0. Ann Kim was unable to play so Tracy 
Boyd moved up to the #6 position. Out of 
the 18 sets of tennis played only 4 sets 
went more than 7 games. There were 4 
sets that ended 6-0. Coach Hawk seems 
pleased with the women's team success, 
however, he says, "I am taking it one game 
at a time."
... And CMU Runners
By STEWART LEVINE
Tartan Staffwriter
King of the mountain is a game often 
played by small children. Saturday, the 
Lady Tartans played their version of it at 
Flagstaff Hill. After defeating Duquesne 
earlier in the season, Carnegie Mellon was 
prepared to take the Division III bragging 
rights of Pittsburgh by defeating Robert 
Morris 20-47. However, a third Pittsbrugh 
school, Division I University of Pittsburgh 
made an unscheduled appearance at the meet 
and beat both schools. The Lady Panthers 
beat the Tartans 17-40, and defeated Robert 
Morris 15-44.
The meet was highlighted by the running 
of Pitt’s Lori Wood who ran the race in 
15:53 minutes. Her time shattered the old 
course record set two weeks earlier by 
Grove City's Cindy Langwig on the almost 
three mile course by over a minute.
Top runner for Carnegie Mellon was 
freshman Sue Johnson who placed fourth in 
17:21, she was followed by fellow 
freshman Theresa Pane who came in 
seventh with a time of 17:58. Both times
Get Your Slice 
of Our High Tech 
Career Pie
At the Environmental Research Institute of Michigan (ERIM), we work with 
universities, government, business and industry in developing and deploying new technologies in electronics, computer science and optics. 
In sensor technology, we’re a leader in the conception, design and demonstration 
of new sensor systems such as high resolution synthetic aperture radars and 
laser imaging, three-dimensional and multi-spectral scanners. 
If you’re graduating with a Master’s or PhD in electrical engineering, computer science, physics, mathematics or statistics, you’ll be interested in the high-tech 
opportunities at our Ann Arbor headquarters.
For details, meet with us on the Carnegie-Mellon 
Campus, Tuesday, October 7, 1986 and explore 
the technical opportunities at ERIM. Please contact 
the Career Services and Placement Office today.
P.O. Box 8618 • Ann Arbor, Ml 48107-8618.
Equal Opportunity Employer U S Citizenship Required
were season bests for the pair. Other 
runners to do well were Francesca Crannell 
who placed ninth, Maureen Stempowski 
who caiiie in twelth and became the fourth 
Lady Tartan to run the Schenley Park 
course in under twenty minutes, and Doris 
Kwong who placed thirteenth in 20:02.
Head Coach Mindy Maxwell was very 
happy with the running of the Lady 
Tartans. "I’m very pleased to be seeing 
constant improvement in all the women, 
hopefully we'll continue to improve and hit 
our peak at the PACs."
The results leave the Lady Tartans 5-0 
midway through the season. Pitt was not 
scheduled to race and does not count in the 
official standings. Coming up this Saturday 
for Carnegie Mellon is a dual meet against 
President's Athletic Conference rival Hiram 
followed next week by the Fairmont State 
Invitational.
Results
Carnegie Mellon 20, Robert Morris 47 
Pitt 17, Carnegie Mellon 40 
Pitt 15, Robert Morris 44
1WoodPitt15:53
New Course Record
2HebanerPitt16:42
3AzekePitt17:00
4JohnsonCMU17:21
5RileyPitt17:44
6LaskowskiPitt17:47
7PaneCMU17:58
8TarbyRM18:23
9CrannellCMU18:28
10PhelonPitt19:33
12StempkowskiCMU19:49
13KwangCMU20:02
14MoritzCMU21:09
15LacroceCMU21:29
16PickeringCMU' 22:18
17ResisingerCMU23:26
SPORTS STAFF MEETING 
TUESDAY, 8 PM 
New Writers Welcome
CAREERSEMINAR
The National Security Agency 
will be conducting an informa­
tional session on September 
30th from 6 PM until 8 PM in 
Room 13 of the Skibo Building. 
All Electrical/Electronic/Com­
puter Engineering, Computer 
Science, Math and Language 
majors are invited to attend.
National Security Agency
Attn: M322
Ft. Meade, MD 20755-6000
An Equal Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

September 30, 1986—The Tartan—Page 19Volleyball Team Has a Tough Week
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Sports Editor
The Carnegie Mellon volleyball team had 
a difficult week, losing a pair of three-team 
matchups to drop their record to 2-7.
The lady Tartans suffered their first 
setbacks of the week on Tuesday, versus 
Bethany and West Liberty Colleges. The 
match versus Bethany, Carnegie Mellon's 
first conference contest, ended with the 
Bisons on top by a score of 2 games to 
CMU’s 1.
Head volleyball coach Jane Fisk noted 
that inconsistency was the team's biggest 
problem. She also felt that the girls were 
not used to playing together as a team.
The results were similar later in the week, 
as Carnegie Mellon fell to Thiel and 
Geneva Colleges by identical 2-0 scores.
Despite the loss, Coach Fisk felt "the 
team played better...our oppenents were 
very strong." Geneva had several tall girls, 
over 5'10", while Thiel had most of last 
year's team returning.
In contrast, the Tartans only have two 
starters returning, Monica Zalevsky and 
Diane Watson, both juniors.
Zalevsky, a power outside hitter, has been 
Carnegie Mellon's most potent weapon this 
year and is rated as the team's best player 
by Coach Fisk.
Senior Jill Werner, who did not start last 
year, will fill an everyday lineup spot for 
CMU this year.
OFFICE WITH A VIEW
The Peace Corps 
is an exhilarating two 
year experience that 
will last a lifetime.
Working at a 
professional level that 
ordinarily might take 
years of appren­
ticeship back home, 
volunteers find the 
career growth +hey're 
looking for and enjoy 
a unique experience 
in the developing 
world.
International 
firms and government 
agencies value the 
skills and knowledge 
mastered during 
Peace Corps service.
Information & Film 
Un i v. of Pitt 
Sep. 30 - *4 p.m.
Oct. 1 - 7 p.m.
Rm. 4E51 Forbes Quad 
and
Oct. 2-11-3 P-m. 
Willi am Pitt Un ion 
Ground Floor
INTERVIEWS 
Oct. 8 - 3am - 4:30pm 
Werner Hal 1 - Rm 119 
SIGN UP NOW AT 
Career Planninp Office
Peace Corps
The toughest job 
you'll ever love.
Tartans go to the net versus Seton Hill College.
Although the team has only 2 freshmen 
on board, there are four other players who 
were not on the squad last year.
Notable among those four is Beth Virgin, 
a Tartan basketball player who is attemp­
ting to transfer her skills to the volleyball 
court as a power hitter.
Also coming out is senior Carol Lau, 
who has played defense for the Tartans 
before, but did not have time for the team 
last year. Coach Fisk rates Lau’s best 
attributes as speed and quickness.
A recent loss that will hurt the volleyball 
team is junior Chris Coleman, who last 
week took a leave of absence from school.
The next time the volleyball team goes 
out onto the court, there will be some 
changes. As a result of the team’s play so 
far this year, Coach Fisk has decided to 
change to what is known as a defensive 
"player up" style. In explaining the move 
she noted that the new system "will help us 
cover ground better."
Tomorrow, the Tartans will face 
Washington and Jefferson College on the 
road. W&J is somewhat a mystery this 
year to Coach Fisk, but she noted that "the 
teams are usually evenly matched. We 
exchanged wins and losses last year."
AVOID
CALL DOMINO'S PIZZA
OfA1-
One
free item
Get one free item on 
any pizza
One coupon per pizza 
Expires: 10/12/86
Fast, Free Delivery”
Good at locations 
listed
—I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I® I
— J
Meet the NOID!" He loves 
to ruin your pizza. He 
makes your pizza cold, 
or late, or he squashes 
your pizza box so the 
cheese gets stuck to 
the top.
With one call to Domino’s 
Pizza, you can avoid the 
NOID. So when you want 
hot, delicious, quality 
pizza delivered in less 
than 30 minutes, One 
call does it all!®
Call us. 681-1700
315 N. Craig St.
521-2970
623 Greenfield Ave.
DOMINO’SPIZZADELIVERSFREE.
Our drivers carry less than $2000 Limited delivery area. ©1986 Dominos Pizza, Inc

---------------------------------------------------

tartan SportsGridders Topple Dukes 33-22
By ALLEN REKNIT
Special to The Tartan 
Duquesne's visit to Tech Field Saturday 
was billed as a "stepping stone" from the 
Dukes' 3-0 start to an undefeated season and 
national respectability.
Unfortunately for Coach Terry Russell and 
his defiant Dukes, Carnegie Mellon 
defensive back Billy Cramer did some fancy 
stepping of his own near the end of the third 
quarter. With the score locked at fourteen 
apiece, Cramer stepped in front of Duquesne 
receiver Harry Kramer to intercept Mark 
Vemer's pass. Displaying the running ability 
he is usually forced to save for punt returns, 
Cramer nimbly remained inbounds and 
sprinted down the sideline fifty-six yards to 
the Duquesne sixteen yard line.
Cramer's thievery captured the momentum 
which had eluded the two teams for nearly 
three quarters. It was time for the Carnegie 
Mellon offense to do some stepping of its 
own. Running back Mike Minjock's eleven 
yard gallop to the Dukes' five brought the 
Tartans a step closer. On third and goal at 
the three yard line, Tartan quarterback Mike 
Hensel's second touchdown of the game gave 
Carnegie Mellon a permanent lead and an 
uncontested posession of the day's 
momentum.
The first half was exceptionally frustrating 
for the Carnegie Mellon offense. Following 
a Duquesne punt to the Tartan thirty yard 
line, the offense pressed to the Dukes' 
eighteen in eleven plays. However, Hensel 
was dumped for a twelve yard loss in an ill- 
fated attempt to pass. A third and 24 
situation resulted, followed by a fourth and 
24 predicament as Hensel and split end Roy 
Teresky failed to connect. Once again 
Hensel's pass failed to find the intended 
receiver, running back Tim Denmeade, and a 
scoring opportunity was lost and the Dukes 
took over on downs.
On third down and two the Plaid Curtain 
defense stuffed Duquesne tailback Sean
McDonough for a loss of a yard, and forced 
the Dukes to punt. Stopping McDonough is 
no easy task, as Tartan mentor Rich 
Lackner's reference to McDonough as "a 
Division III Earl Campbell" insinuates.
standing from the one yard line. In four 
plays, Carnegie Mellon punted and the 
Dukes were threating again on the Tartan 32 
yard line. The next play, Billy Cramer's 
agile interception, set in motion the
Ball carrier Tim Denmeade is shielded by
Six plays later, Tim Denmeade, the 
contest's leading rusher, scored from five 
yards out to put the Tartans up 7-0.
However, two minutes into the second 
quarter, Marc Vemer found a wide open Todd 
Fischer with a nineteen yard touchdown pass 
to tie the game.
Sparked by a brilliant eighteen yard, sliding 
catch by Billy Heiser on a crucial third 
down, Carnegie Mellon executed a twelve 
play drive completed by Hensel's four yard 
run to make the score 14-7 at the half.
During his halftime speech, Coach Lackner 
stressed the fact that the Dukes had come 
from behind at the half to win the previous 
three games.
Lackner's concern was not unfounded as the 
Dukes' impressively drove sixty yards in 
eight plays on their first possession of the 
second half, with McDonough going in
Photo by Andy Gillespie
the Tartan offensive line 
momentum's shift Tartan strong safety Dan 
Preston was so happy with Cramer he "could 
have kissed him. But I was so tired, all I 
could do was get gatorade, " joked Preston 
after the game.
Hensel's three yard run made the score 21- 
14 in Carnegie Mellon's favor. The Plaid 
Curtain again forced Duquesne to punt in 
four plays.
Highlighting another six-play Tartan 
scoring drive was Hensel's forty yard bomb 
to a streaking Roy Teresky. Four plays later 
Hensel, who racked up 187 aerial yards, 
cooly tossed the ball four yards to Minjock 
to produce a 27-14 count. Jim Kelly's extra 
point attempt was blocked, yet it was still 
apparent the Tartans were unwilling to 
relinquish any momentum to the Dukes.
Mike LaValle's interception of a Vemer 
toss on the Dukes' next posession destroyed
any hopes for a Duquesne comeback.
Reserve fullback Chris Hansen, remaining 
untouched, reced two yards for his first score 
as a Tartan to finish another fourteen-play 
series and increase Carnegie Mellon's lead to 
nineteen points.
Backup freshman quarterback Dean Garafola 
was pressed into service when Mike Hensel 
was injured running over the Dukes' Gary 
Eiben. Garfola's two- point conversion pass 
was incomplete and the score remained 33- 
14.
A late touchdown catch by Duquesne's 
Mike Mackay and Vemer's subsequent two- 
point conversion run made the score 33-22 
but the game had been safely in Tartan hands 
since Mike LaValle's interception two 
minutes into the fourth quarter.
"Senior offensive linemen Dave Merrigan, 
Ed Gallager, Marc Muster, and Neal Shipley 
were a key to today's victory," according to 
Offensive Line Coach Charlie Koren. "They 
played exceptionally well against a shifting, 
blitzing defense."
Many have wondered why the Tartans have 
been reluctant to rely on the strong passing 
of Mike Hensel. Jerry Mancini, who calls 
Carnegie Mellon's plays, provided some 
insight to the Tartan offensive philosophy. 
"We felt Duquesne had an explosive offense, 
and we needed to keep the ball out of their 
hands. Therefore, our first plan was to 
control the ball with our misdirection 
running game. However if this proved 
unsucessful, which it didn't, we would have 
naturally thrown the football more."
Next Week - The Tartans start their quest 
for a second consecutive PAC crown next 
Saturday versus the John Carroll Blue 
Streaks at home. Kickoff at 2:00 pm.
The Injury Report- Mike Hensel 
received a concussion from his collision, and 
may not play next week. Gerry Bosch, a 
sophomore linebacker, suffered a first degree 
ankle sprain and defensive end Tom Frost, a 
co-captian, came away with a bruised knee. 
Both are expected to play next week.Soccer Edges Hiram College 1-0
The young CMU soccer team has 
undergone a painful initiation during the 
opening games of the 1986 season, and has 
endured the test with gusto.
The Tartans withstood a late offensive 
spurt to edge Hiram College on Friday, 1-0, 
battling injuries and fatigue resulting from 
bloodbaths with Allegheny College and John 
Carroll University earlier in the week. The 
Tartan defense made a first half goal by Bob 
Stefanowicz stand up as the offense missed 
on several good scoring opportunities.
CMU ended up outshooting Hiram 16-3 
while registering a 13-1 advantage on comer 
kicks. Still they had only a slim, one goal 
lead to show for it
"We definitely outplayed them, but then we 
became tired, and couldn’t convert our 
scoring opportunities," said Nick Gaudioso, 
the owner of a 3-2-1 record in his sixth year 
as head soccer coach at CMU. "We couldn’t 
afford to sit back to the lead because we have 
such a young team, so we had to keep 
working for the two goal cushion."
Hiram nearly took advantage of an injury 
to senior co-captain Doug Anderson and a 
fatigued CMU defensive corps late in the 
game. Anderson made two crucial clearing 
kicks from in front of the Tartan goal before 
going down with a badly bruised ankle with 
two minutes remaining. Earlier Anderson 
was shaken up after colliding with Hiram 
goal tender Ken Powers on an individual 
offensive rush. After receiving brief
attention, he was able to resume play.
"These are the kind of nagging injuries that 
won't keep a player like (Anderson) off the 
field," commented Assistant Coach Dan 
Moss. "They naturally occur when playing 
as hard as he does. He should be ready for the 
next game."
CMU assumed the territorial edge in play 
early in the game with textbook exhibitions 
of ball movement by Kevin Jung and 
defensive work by Scott Lyon and Ned 
O'Byme. Junior forward Alan Mayr had a 
good scoring opportunity in the first half 
when he dribbled through a defender’s legs 
and shot along the ground inches past the 
right post.
The Tartans' only goal came on a comer 
kick. Kevin Jung kicked the ball deep into 
the crease just out of the goaltender's reach. 
Sophomore midfielder Bob Stefanowicz rose 
in the air to head the ball into the top right- 
hand comer of the goal.
CMU handled some initial pressure at the 
start of the second half without allowing a 
good sewing chance. Goalie Reid Theil made 
two diving stops and Binh Nguyen made 
several key interceptions to keep Hiram, out 
of scoring range. Altogether, the tired CMU 
defense proved to be very stingy in the 
waning moments.
"I was very pleased with our overall 
defensive effort, especially since we're still a 
little ’banged up,’" said Gaudioso. "I think 
the treatment our opponents have given us is
good for our players, though. Against John 
Carroll, seven yellow cards (warnings of 
dangerous play or disruptive conduct) were 
issued, and I think its given us some 
strength mentally. We have a talented group 
of young players who only need to believe
in themselves a bit more."
CMU takes on Geneva in an important non­
league contest on Wednesday, 3:30 at Tech 
Field. The soccer team's next PAC contest* 
will be versus Grove City College on 
October 11.
Scoreboard
Football
Carnegie Mellon 33 
Duquesne 21
Soccer
Carnegie Mellon 1 
Hiram 0
Women's Cross Country 
Pitt 17
Carnegie Mellon 40
Carnegie Mellon 20 
Robert Morris 47
Women's Tennis
Carnegie Mellon 9 
Bethany 0
Field Hockey
Carnegie Mellon 1 
Bethany 0
Hiram 1
Carnegie Mellon 0
Carnegie Mellon 3 
Lake Erie 0
Volleyball
Bethany 2 
Carnegie Mellon 1
West Liberty 2 
Carnegie Mellon 0
Thiel 2
Carnegie Mellon 0 
Geneva 2
Carnegie Mellon 0
