EASTER VACATION 
APRIL 17-21aratgte Ifotan
LOVE’S LABORS LOST 
OPENS TONITE 
•LITTLE THEATER
VOL. XXIV, No. 27.CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, APRIL IS, 1930.
INTRA-MURAL BASKETEERS CLOSE 
SCHEDULE WITH TWO FAST TILTS; 
WINNERS ENGAGE PITT CHAMPIONS
Student Council 
Approves 1930-31 
Senate Elections
Beta Theta Pi Vanquishes 
Beta Sigma Rho and 
Phi Kappa
Silver Trophy as Prize
Herbst High Point Scorer 
For Beta Squad In 
Both Games
The Beta Theta Pi’s defeated 
the Beta Sigma Rho’s 23-18 in 
very interesting game Wednesday 
night. The defensive tactics of the 
former was one of the high light: 
of the game. They kept the lead 
hy an effective man to man de­
fense. The Beta Sigma Rho team 
¦was supported by their star, 
“Iieinie” Goldberg, who played 
with an injured knee sustained in 
football scrimmage a few days pre 
vious. All season he has been 
their offensive threat, handling his 
team like a Harpster. Due to his 
injury he was forced to play a de­
fensive game and broke into th- 
scoring column only twice. He left 
the game in the third quarter.
Neither team .could work the 
ball into the scoring zone during 
the first quarter and the score was 
\ 2-2 at the end of the initial period. 
'Led by Sample, Bates and Hower, 
»he Beta. Theta Pi team managed 
forge ahead and hold the lead 
tqe remainder of the game. Armen- 
tl£>ut entered the fray in the third 
trTarter and helped his team to 
qijad 21-10. Here, with five min 
Icfcs to play, the ever-trying Beta 
u/igma Rho’s staged a rally and 
Ssrought the score to 21-18. Dur- 
1/ng the remainder of the game the 
^winners controlled the ball and the 
/game ended 23-18. And so the 
j title of intra-mural champions was 
I bestowed upon the Beta. Theta 
Pi’s.
Lcs Cohen and Klien featured 
for the losers while Herbst, Sam- 
* pie and Todd played for the win 
ners. It must be remembered that 
the able assistance of Coach Nease 
is greatly responsible for the Beta's 
gaining possession of the handsome 
trophy
The lineup for the game was as 
follows:
Betas—23 Beta Sigma Rhos—18
Bates____——F—___Frcelander
Ziegler________;_F_____ Goldberg
Herbst _________C-------------- Klein
Sample -------------G------------- Cohen
.Todd __________G_________Widom
Substitutions: Iiower for Ziegler, 
Armcntrout for Bates, Steiner for 
;Widom, Schlassman for Goldberg.
Field goals: Betas—Bates, 3; Ar­
mcntrout, 2; Todd; Herbst, 2; 
Sample. Beta Sigma Rlios: Gold- 
(Continued on Page Two)
Mr. Maher Talks 
On Cab Strike At 
Meeting Today
fa “What Price Taxis?” is the sub­
ject of a talk to be given on campus 
today by Tommie Maher, one of the 
striking cab drivers. Mr. Maher will 
speak at an open meeting at: 12:45 
today in Arts School, room 106, 
under th_ auspices of the Social 
Problems Club.
The purpose in having this topic 
discussed is to bring before the stu­
dent body a matter of interest in 
\ local affairs. After the brief talk 
v there .will be opportunity for ques­
tions, at which time students can se- 
, cure first-hand information about the 
¡taxi-cab strike.
Mr. Maher, who is quite as young 
as many college students, has had a 
varied career. After graduating 
from high school he took some 
courses in journalism at a local col­
lege. For some' time following that 
he did editorial and reporting work 
• on a farm paper. It was when this 
journal went out of existence that 
Mr. Maher entered the employ of 
the taxi company. He took this 
" money and partly because he was 
still interested in writing and was 
anxious to secure a background and contacts.
It was only several months that 
¡Mr. Maher had been driving a cab 
when the strike wa: called. On ac­
count of his capabilities he was im­
mediately attached to the relief com­
mittee as a clerk. In addition, his 
former newspaper experience put him 
in a position to be useful in the 
committee’s publicity work.
The officers of the Social Problems 
are busy formulating plans for next 
gear's program. They propose to fol­
low the policy in force at present 
bf presenting to the- student body 
¡speakers of established reputation on 
fopics of current political and eco­nomic interest.
“Love’s Labour’s Lost” 
Opens In Little Theater
B. Idcn Payne’s production of 
the Shakespearean comedy, “Love's 
Labour’s Lost,” will open this 
evening in the Little Theater at 
8:15 o’clock. All the tickets for 
this evening’s performance are 
being issued on campus .and can 
be obtained at the Registrar’s of­
fice. There wi)' also be a student 
matinee tomorrow at 3:30 for 
which tickets arc not needed.
Mr. Payne, who was formerly 
the head of the Drama Depart­
ment at Carnegie, visits here an­
nually to direct the Shakespearean 
production. Last week he appeared 
in the leading role of “The Mask 
and the Face," ; comedy produced 
by the Playhouse of the Y. M. and W. I-I. A.
“Love’s Labour’s Lost” is a play 
that is not often staged, but which 
has recently interested modern 
critics because of the beauty of 
the poetry and the similarity in 
style to the Shavian -drama’s which 
emphasize character lather, than plot.
Girls’ Glee Club 
Holds Rehearsal 
Today and Wed.
Election of New Officers 
and Student Conductor 
to Be Held
The Girls’ Glee Club will hold its 
regular rehearsals this week at 4:30 
this afternoon and at 7:00 Wednes­
day evening, although the concert 
scaspn is over. The rehearsals are for 
the purpose of election of officers 
for next year and for tryouts and 
election of student conductor. Ever}' 
member of the club, from both Mar­
garet Morrison and Arts School, may 
try for this position. Every member 
of the club' is urged to be present 
this afternoon and tomorrow to de­
cide this question of vital importance 
to the club. Miss Harriet Hanna, 
(Continued on Page Two)
TIME ON BOOKLET 
ORDERS EXTENDED
Orders for Senior booklets will 
be continued today and tomorrow 
because a large number of the stu­
dents failed to place their orders 
last week. Today there will be a 
salesman in the main hall of each 
of the four buildings between 11:30 
and 1:30, and on Wednesday, be­
tween 12:30 and 1:30. All orders 
must be in on these two days, 
lhcre will be no later period for 
ordering these booklets and only 
the exact number ordered will be printed.
Ihese booklets which the seniors 
may use in place of the usual com­
mencement announcement are being 
printed in two styles: A black
leather covered one with the gold 
"C” is priced at 50 cents and a 
white cardboard covered one, tied 
with the Carnegie colors, at 25 
cents. The booklets must be paid 
for when they are ordered.
A complete list of the senior's 
of all four colleges, the entire pro­
gram of Commencement Week, a 
night school section, and attractive 
views of the Campus buildings are
Student Council Re-elects 
Mr. Davis As Execu­
tive Secretary
Press Bureau Issues Invitations
For Annual Exhibition Night
Mr. Davis, who has acted in the 
capacity of executive secretary to 
the Student Council for the past 
year, was re-elected to that office 
for a two-year term at the meeting 
of Student Council on April 8. In 
previous years the tenure of office 
for this position has been one 
year, but the recommendation for 
a two-year term was approved by 
Council because a longer period 
of service is justified both by the 
responsibility of the office and the 
advantages it offers in developing 
new policies and plans.
Besides the election of Mr. Davis 
the following business was transac­
ted by Council: Mr. Dcvercll,
chairman of the social committee 
of the Carnegie Carnival, announced 
his committee, which is composed 
of Virginia Morgan, Harriet Hanna, 
Frank Foote and Carlcton Lewis.
Mr. Maynr, chairman of the Stu­
dent Council Election Committee, 
gave a report on the results of the 
elections in the various schools. 
Those elected to t* -¦ office of 
Senate president were Marvin Fox, 
Engineering* Willibald Ryshanck, 
Arts, and Philip Magnuson, Indus 
tiics. Upon Mr. Mayne’s recom- 
mendation Council approved Tues­
day, April 29, as the election day 
for all class officers In all the col­
leges.
The list of students receiving 
activities was presented for ap­
proval by Miss Morgan, chairman 
of the committee on Activities 
Keys, Council approved both this 
list and several additional recom­
mendations. The additional keys 
were awarded to Wilfred Worland, 
Richard Mayne and Thistledown. 
The first two received jeweled keys 
and the latter received a gold 
activities key.
MR. FULLER, DESIGNER 
WILL SPEAK ON PLANS 
FOR HIS MODEL HOUSE
In the Little Theater on Thursday, 
April 24, at 4:30 p. m. Buckminister 
Fuller will give a lccturc on a new 
model house which he himself has 
designed and planned.
Mr. Fuller, after having given 
two lectures recently in Cambridge,' 
was acclaimed such a good speaker 
that he was asked to giv: other 
lectures. Having in view the large 
scale production which is typifying 
most American industries, Mr. Ful­
ler is desirous of trying to get quanti­
ty production in houses also. The 
house he is now planning upon en­
tirely new principles has attracted 
so much interest that the architects 
for the Chicago' World Fair have 
asked him to build one of his houses 
(Continued on Page Two)
FRANK WINS CONTEST
Abraham C. Frank, sub-senior 
architect, was'judged winner of the 
local oratorial contest held Thurs­
day, April 10, in Margaret Mor­
rison Assembly Hall, and will rep­
resent Carnegie Tech in the na­
tional contest.
Frank, who spoke on “The Con­
stitution Guarantees,” will enter the 
cgional contest for colleges in 
W'estcrn Pennsylvania and Eastern 
Ohio, wliich will be held Friday, 
May 2, in Margaret Morrison As-
Any student who wishes to have 
invitations sent out for the annual 
Exhibition night may do so by 
leaving the names and addresses at 
the Press Bureau which is located 
on the second floor of the College 
of Industries. Every year, . the 
Press Bureau sends out 7,000 invi­
tations for this event. Four thou­
sand posters are issued by them, 
exclusive of those which arc used 
by The Pittsburgh Railways- Com­
pany.
It is the function of this depart­
ment to furnish the major*part of 
the publicity about Carnegie that 
appears in the Pittsburgh papers. 
Fraternities and sororities that have
items of interest place them in the 
tlaily papers through the Press 
Bureau. Students may at any time 
bring si:’ ‘'formation to the dc-~ 
partincnt for publication.
A complete record of students’ 
activities is kept- in this office 
which is issued as reference in 
compiling the material for their 
articles. The personnel includes W. 
N. James, formerly of The Balti­
more Sun; Miss Lcnora W. Dotia- 
hoe, Max Iiannum, formerly of the 
sport, staff of The Press; Joseph 
Christoff, and Miss Eleanor Tall- 
madge, who is a Margaret Morri­
son graduate.
High Scholastic 
Honors Taken By 
Beta Sigma Rho
Forbes Hall Stands High­
est In Scholastic Race 
For Trophy
Employment Time 
For Seniors To Be Terminated Soon
The “Emi?loymcnt Rushing Sea­
son” for Seniors has just about 
terminated, many of the bids have 
been made, and the responsibility 
of the next move rests largely with 
the Seniors themselves.
Nearly 60 companies have visited 
Carnegie Tech this year for the 
purpose of interviewing men, and 
nearly 200 offers have been made; 
and from this point on the Seniors 
must either decide upon one of the 
offers made them, or must follow 
other leads either by letter or in 
terview. Most- companies desire a 
definite answer sometime this month, 
and those ^dio make decisions 
should communicate with the com­
panies immediately, so that pos­
sibilities of not landing ‘he posi­
tions will be reduced to a minimum,
The Bureau of Recommendations 
has on file a list of firms to whom 
Seniors may write concerning open 
ings. These companies do not visit 
but arc interested in making addi­
tions to their organizations by 
means of written applications. Men, 
who arc not satisfied with their 
present prospects should make free 
use of the bureau’s facilities during 
the next month. Those' who do 
not act until after graduation will 
find themselves in competition with 
hundreds of graduates from all over 
the country. It therefore behooves 
every Senior to make up his mind 
as quickly as possible, and then act.
Mr. Grau would like to see every 
Senior some time within the next 
month, so that the bureau’s rec­
ords may be kept up-to-date, and 
the utmost assistance may be given 
those who arc having difficulties.
WEST PENN EDUCATIONAL 
CONFERENCE HELD HERE
sembly Hall. Winners in thencluded in the booklet. Samples regional contests will enter further
of the booklets may be seen at the | eliminations' to determine the na-place of sale. ttonal winner.
Westinghouse Invention Makes 
Human Voice Control Automobile
An amazing demonstration of the 
electric eye,” or light sensitive 
photo-electric cell, was given recent­
ly by the’ Westinghouse Electric 
Company in the show rooms of the 
Willys-Overland Company at Broad­
way and Fiftieth street, New York, 
when H. P. Davis, vice president 
of the Westinghouse Company, 
from his office in the company's 
Administration Building in East 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, U. S. A., 
directed the movements of an un­
attended automobile in New York. 
As Mr. Davis told the car to "go 
ahead,” it moved forward. Similarly, 
upon orders from the distant oper­
ator, the car stopped and moved 
backward. The lights were turned 
on in response to a request from 
lie voicc in East Pittsburgh.
This was the first time in his­
tory that an automobile in one city 
was controlled and moved at will 
by the voice of a person in a dis-.
tant city. It was made possible by 
the “electric eye,” or photo-electric 
cell of the Westinghouse Company. 
This cell was placed in the trunk 
in the rear of the Willys car. A 
telephone connection was . then 
established between Mr. Davis’ 
office in East Pittsburgh and the 
Willys-Overland quarters on Broad­
way. When Mr. Davis spoke, sound 
impulses were set up and trans­
ferred into light waves which were 
picked up by the “electric eye,” 
which in turn operated certain re­
lays and gave the automobile its' 
backward and forward movement.
The demonstration of this most 
modern form of remote control was 
witnessed by a large group of auto­
motive experts, technical men and 
scientists from the Westinghouse 
Company, as well as by the general 
public and a group of newspaper men.
The Western Pennsylvania Edu­
cational Confcrcncc was held in 
Pittsburgh laS't Thursday, -Friday 
and Saturday, April 10, 11 and 12. 
This confcrcncc was a combined 
meeting of the Pittsburgh Teach­
ers’ Institute,^ the Western Conven­
tion District, P. S. E. A., and the 
School of Education. Meetings 
were held at the Frick Training 
School, the Soldiers’ Memorial Hall, 
Schcnlcy High • School and the 
Carnegie Union.
Professor Glen U. Cleeton, head 
of the Department of Industrial 
Education at Carnegie Tech, led a 
discussion of Vocational Education 
Problems. at the Fridajr morning 
meeting at the Carnegie Union. 
About 400 tcachers "were present at 
the opening of the conference. In 
the faculty clubrooms adjoining the 
Union, there was displayed an ex­
hibit of material and tools for in­
dustrial art.
The Commercial .Education As­
sociation meeting was led. by Miss 
Edith Winchester, head of the Sec­
retarial Department at Margaret 
Morrison. Demonstration lessons 
in shorthand and typewriting were 
given. The conference was fol­
lowed by a luncheon in the Georgian 
Room of Webster Hall.
The Home Economics section 
met on Saturday at Margaret Mor­
rison. Miss Mabel T rilling, pro­
fessor of Home Economics Edu­
cation at Carnegie Tech, took part 
in the discussion. The Mathe­
matics section was led by Edwin 
G. Olds of Carnegie Tech. Asso­
ciate professor of Art Education at 
Carnegie, Frederick Nyquist, led a 
(Continued on Page Four)
R.O.T.C. Parade To Open Programme Exhibition Night
On Friday evening, April 25, 
from 7:30 until 10:30 o’clock, 
Carnegie Tech will hold its annual 
exhibition.
The program will begin, at 6:45 
p. m. when the Reserve Officers’ 
'J raining Corps will stage a regi­
mental drill parade on th2 Cut. As 
soon as this is over the several 
colleges, with their various depart­
ments, will be open lor inspection. 
Students' will be at work in these 
departments in order that visitors 
may better understand the work 
performed there.
(in Engineering Hall the follow 
iug general articles of interest will 
be tound: Various types of models 
the hydraulic laboratories, 
models and machinery in the min­
ing laboratories, industrial lighting 
exhibit and Pittsburgh products 
and their advertising.
Forging and heat treating, foun­
dry work, printing and binding, 
welding, linotype and monotype 
composing rooms, drawing labora­
tories, woodworking and chemistry 
or materials laboratories will be 
found in the College of Industries.
In Margaret Morrison College 
an exhibition of social work activi­
ties; of general biology, and of 
costume economics will be found 
11 addition to exhibits by the 
household economics and secretar­
ial classes.
In the College of Fine Arts the 
Music and Drama departments will 
present a program, while the De­
partment of Architecture will have 
an exhibition of drawings. Jewelry 
ar.d metal work, pottery and sculp­
ture will be found in the Depart­
ment of Painting and Decoration.
PLEBE RIFLE 
TEAM CONCLUDES YEAR
With a victory over the Univer­
sity of Columbia on April 5. by a 
total" score of 1,283 to 1,205, the 
Carnegie Tech Plebc Rifle team 
ends an extremely successful year, 
haying lost only 3 out of 20 
matches. Among the vanquished 
teams are: Annapolis, which is
rarely beaten; M. I. T., Princeton, 
West Virginia University, Gettys­
burg College, University of Penn­
sylvania, University of. Cincinnati, 
Johns Hopkins, University of Mary­
land, Kiski, and the Rennselaer P. I.
Captain Paul Hudson, who won 
a cup in the pinners’ match on 
March 29, has been the high scorer 
of the year; he has established two 
rew local range records by shoot­
ing a total of 291 in three posi­
tions (standing, kneeling and prone), 
and during the same match set a 
record of 95 standing. The other 
members of the team are Scherba, 
Buse, Connelly, Buckwalter, Mar- 
thinke, who will receive numerals; 
Dickens, Rhoades, Isenberg and 
Rodenberg. Because of their good 
showing the four best marksmen 
were chosen by Captain Kaschagen 
III and Lieutenant Cothran to 
shoot with the Varsity team in the 
Engineers’ match last-week for the 
permanent possession of the silver 
loving cup which has been in Car­
negie’s possession for two years. 
Manager Maurice Hiller has been 
highly pleased with the performance 
of the FIcbc Rif!: Team.
There has been two shoulder to 
shoulder matches during the sea­
son, both with Kiski. On March 15 
Kiski competed with Carnegie and 
lost by a total score of 1,378 to 
(Continued on Page Four)
The highest scholastic rating in 
the first semester of 1929-30 was 
earned among the fraternities by 
Beta Sigma Rho with a 4.OS aver­
age, in the men’s dormitories by 
Boss Hall with 3.66, in the sorori­
ties by Gamma Gamma Gamma 
with 4.10, and in the women’s dor­
mitories by Forbes Hall with 4.24. 
These numbers denote the ratio of 
the total number of quality points 
earned by a group to the total 
units of work carried by its mem­
bers.
The complete lists are as fol­
lows:
1. Beta Sigma RJ10______ 4.08
2. Lambda Chi Alpha----- 3.77
3. Alpha Sigma Phi---------- 3.6487
4. Phi Kappa Psi________ 3.6481
5. Delta Upsilon ------------ 3.56
6. Delta Mu ........................ 3.54
7. Pi Kappa Alpha -------- 3.44
S. Beta. Theta Pi ----------- 3.41
9. Delta Phi Delta_____3.40
10. Sigma Phi Epsilon —
11. Sigma Nu ___________
12. Theta Xi ____________
13. Phi Kappa __________
14. Kappa Sigma ________
15. Sigma Alpha Epsilon
16. Phi Sigma Kappa ------- 3.13
17. Delta Tau Delta............... 2.83
18. Alpha Tau Omega ___ 2,26
Men’s dormitories:
1. Boss Hall ........................ 3.66
2. Schobcll Hall _____ 3.58
3. Henderson Hall L_____ 3.53
4. McGill Hall .................... 3.47
5. Welch Hall .................... 3.07
Sororities in the college of Fine
Arts:
1. (fiamma Gamma Gamma 4.10
2. Beetle ...........................4.06
3. Alpha Kappa Psi_____3.88
4. Beta Pi ............................ 3.71
Scholarship cup ratings of the
(Continued on Page Two)
MEMBERS OF TARTAN 
STAFF TO HOLD ANNUAL 
BANQUET ON MAY THIRD
SPRING CARNÍVAL SHOW TO BE GIVEN 
AT BAViS THEATER MAY 9 FOR PUBLIC 
ANO MAY 10 FOR CARNEGIE STUDENTS
CARNIVAL GHAIRStiAN
3.35
3.287
3.280
3.27
3.24
3.19
JAMES B. ASHWELL
M. F. Scaife Gives 
Teniers Painting 
To Art Dept.
Sub Committee Members 
Appointed by the 
Chairmen
James AshweSI at Mead
Carnegie’s Spring Frolic 
Is Less Than a 
Month Off
‘Peasant Interior” Placed 
in Permanent 
Collection
On May 3 the members of the 
Tartan staff will hold their annual 
banquet in the Faculty Dining 
Room of the Carnegie Inn.
Thu banquet is an annual affair, 
which is being revived this year. 
It was discontinued last year be­
causc of lack of funds.
During the course of the ban­
quet the staff for next year will 
be announced and activity keys will 
be awarded to deserving members. 
There will be a few short speeches 
by men actively connected with 
the business and financial world, 
one of whom probably will be Dr. 
Baker. This affair is considered 
one of the most important of the 
year as it marks the end of the 
activities of the present senior 
(Continued on Page Two)
MR. TRINKS TO GIVE TALK
The work of Leonardo Da Vinci 
in connection with engineering ap­
paratus and machinery prior to the 
invention of the steam engine will 
be discussed by Prof. Trinks in a 
talk before members of the C. M. 
E. S. on Tuesday, April 15, at 11:30 
a. m., in room 10 of Machinery 
Iiall.
The lecture will be a continua­
tion of that given two weeks ago 
the same subject by Prof. 
Trinks. Although it is intended 
primarily for members of the so­
ciety, it will be open to anyone 
interested.
The Department of Fine Arts ha: 
received through a bequest of the 
late Lois E. Scaife a painting 
“Peasant Interior’’by David Teniers, 
the Younger, given in memory' of 
Miss Scaife's brother, Marvin F. 
Scaife.The- painting is • on a small 
wooden panel, 12 by 15 inches. It 
shows the interior of a country inn 
wine cellar. In the right fore­
ground a man and woman arc 
seated at a table drinking, while 
above them an old lady peers in 
through a window. On the left is 
a group of four men before a fire­
place, one of whom is .seated on a 
cask,, while beyond, corning 
through tho open door is a man 
carrying a jug. The whole painting 
is done in cool soft browns and 
whites.(Continued on Page Four)
SPRING NUMBER OF 
PUPPET OUT TODAY
Spring-spring, fcvcr-spring, pups- 
spring, puppy-lovc—and Spring Pup­
pets. Look around you—there is a 
Puppet salesman at your heels 
offering you the most horrible reve­
lations about the campus. Forget 
the robins, forget that blonde ’in 
the blue dress, forget everything— 
but don’t forget your Puppets!
Spring fever attacks the Plebes 
and Upperclassmen, the fair-headed 
sex and the bare-headed sex, even 
stoodcnts and garbage men. But the 
old Puppet staff has' valiantly 
foUglit off. this scourge of human­
ity—they have been obsessed with 
the idea that this Puppet—their 
last number—must be their best. 
If - it is their best—then let in­
fluenza, mumps or mosquitoes at­
tack them, or worse than all, 
blondes and brunettes sick with 
love and spring fever—what care 
they.
The Spring Number will contain 
a list of symptoms of Spring fever 
well as diagnoses of the most 
astounding campus love sicknesses. 
The only known remedy for Spring 
fever is—the Puppet.
NOTICE!
Election day is April 29, but as yet only a few petitions have been turned into the “Y” office.
Senior office petitions. must have five signatures, while junior and sophomore petitions must contain ten signatures.Anyone planning to turn in a petition should do so at once, for the deadline is April 18.
Two New Collections Of Paintings 
On Exhibit At Carnegie Institute
Two special exhibitions of paint­
ings have opened at the Depart­
ment of Fine Arts, Carnegie Insti­
tute.
The first, which opened on Tues­
day, April 8, is.a selection of paint­
ings from the Phillips Memorial 
Gallery of Washington, D. C. There 
are 24 pictures in the show, in­
cluding paintings by Pierre Bon­
nard, Henri Matisse, Maurice 
Ctcrnc, Ernest Lawson, Robert 
Spencer, Guy Pcnc duBois and 
others.
In this exhibition at the Insti­
tute an attempt has been made to 
duplicate one of the shows held in 
the Little Gallery at the? Phillips 
Memorial. The selection of the 
paintings, and the directions for 
hanging were made by Duncan 
Phillips, the director and founder 
ol the Phillips Memorial Gallery. 
He chooses the pictures for an 
exhibition .without regard to chron-
ology, nationality,' or school, and 
through the hanging attempts to 
give it continuity in time and 
space. His theory is that if pic­
tures of widely different character 
can be fused into a harmonious 
whole, the result is infinitely more 
significant, than a homogenous 
group. In his opinion it shows, for 
one thing, that good paintings, no 
matter of what race or school, 
hang well together, and that the 
variety of intentions and tempera­
ments after all more truly repre­
sent the world in which we live 
with its c'*oss current and its con­
flicting types.
The second exhibition is one of 
paintings by Old Masters. It began 
on Thursday, April 10, and will 
continue through April 30. It is 
the most important exhibition of 
the season at . Carnegie Institute, 
and includes paintings by Gains- 
(Continued on Page Four)
With the appointment of the mem­
bers of the Spring Carnival Sub 
Committees last week final arrange­
ments arc being made for the Carni­
val which is less than a month in the 
future. In charge of the whole affair 
is James B. Aslnvcll. Mr. Ashwcll 
was chairman of the Student Coun­
cil Committee which drew up a 
tentative two day program that was . 
acceptable to the Student Body, the 
Student Council, and the Executive 
Board resulting in a reincarnation 
of the old favorite, Campus Week. 
As chairman of the Spring Carnival 
Committee Mr. , Ashwcll appointed 
heads for the various sub committees 
who in turn selected the pcrsoncl 
of their respective committees.
The Spring Carnival Show, man­
aged by Kenneth Owens, will be 
presented at the Davis Theater on 
the nights of May 9 and 10. The 
first presentation is for the general 
public and the second for the stu­
dents. The show will be either 
“Broadway” or “Code Robin,” and 
the players will bo selected from 
among the Drama 'Students. Chester 
Wallace is directing the show. A 
large pit orchestra will furnish the music for the production.
The Faculty is co-operating with 
the Student Body in arranging for 
the Carnival through a committee 
composed of Allen E. Riscdorpli; 
Milton S. .Mulloy, Mrs. V. G. Pariki; 
Miss Anne Porter, Miss Doris Port- 
man, and Miss Louise Russell. This 
committee will aid chiefly with the 
Pagcnt with the Coronation and with 
the Cabaret Dance,
A partially complete list of the pcr- 
soiiel of the Sub Committees is aa follows:
Publicity Committee: Thomas Lip- 
pert, chairman; John Boyle, John 
Spencer, Grace Borgerding, Floy 
Sample, Gertrude Novak and V. Mc­Bride.
Spring Carnival Show Committee: 
Kenneth Owens, chairman; Leo 
Daschbach, Frank ' Merrill, Virginia 
Morgan and Kathryn Scybold.
(Continued on Page Two)
Masonry Classes 
Make Inspection 
Of Pitt Cathedral
With the Cathedral of Learning 
as their object of study, eight sec-, 
tions of the Freshman Engineering- 
Industries class have made inspec­
tion trips during the past two 
weeks as a supplement to their 
work in Masonry shop. The pri­
mary purpose of these trips has 
been to study the methods of hand-, 
ling, designing, mixing and testing' 
(he concrete used on this building.
During the course in Masonry 
one inspection trip is required, and 
for the last three years the Cathe­
dral has been selected because of 
its proximity and the' large amount 
of concrete work done on that 
building. There has been more con­
crete on this single structure, the 
Freshmen learned, than is in the 
Pitt Stadium. Over 50 sections, or 
about 1,250 students, have been 
conducted through the Cathedral, 
and Mr. Larkins, instructor of 
Msaonry, has been grateful for the 
cordiality shown by the supervis­
ing contracts, Stone and Webster, 
who have on every occasion pro­
vided an engineer for a guide.
The foundation, which extends 
60 feet underground to bedrock, 
was studied first. According to Mr. 
Crabtree, the guide, out of the 
$10,000,000 which represent the 
total cost of the Cathedral, $600,- 
000 is below the ground. The con­
crete for the remainder of the 
building has been designed for an 
average pressure of 2,000 pounds, 
although the samples which were
ut to the Pittsburgh Testing 
Laboratories showed a strength of 
2,200 for practically every cylinder 
tested.
The outside treatment will be in 
Bedford Limestone, which is being 
put in place now, while the type 
of architecture will be Gothi’, the 
classes were told. The height of 
the Cathedral is 480 feet or 38 
stories. Those sections which have 
inspected the Cathedral during the 
second semester arc 3, 4, 6, 10, 11, 
14, 15 and 16.
11588172

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, ÄPRIÜ IS, Ï936.
dormitories has risen .004 Q. P.'s. 
The average of the sororities has 
fallen .034 Q. P.'s. The total aver­
age of all the sections has thereby 
been depressed .059 Q. P.’s.
Tartan Trackmen 
To Meet P. A. A. 
In Practice Meet
Tartan OfficeDEBATING CLUB TO 
NOMINATE OFFICERSWomen’s AthleticsTENNIS
Found—Wrist watch. Owner please 
call at 2(W Gladstone Road, City^Manager Bill .Pfouts requests 
that all those men - who have 
signed up as freshman tennis 
managers report to him every 
evening. The tennis manager­
ships afford an excellent oppor­
tunity to secure a varsity "C.” 
Come out and stay outl
At a recent meeting of'the Board 
tv/o members were selected , to repre­
sent Carnegie at the .national A. C. 
A. C. W. Conference to be held in 
Michigan next week. Pat Mont* 
gomcry, president, and Ruth Buck- 
waltcr, sccretary-lreasurer, will attend 
the Conference as official delegates. 
Floy Sample, rifle manager, will ac­
company the delegates as an un- 
oi'.icial representative.
Tomorrow the W. A. A. will hold 
its spring election. Since the nomina­
tions closed last Thursday at noon 
with no. additional candidates nomi­
nated, automatically Ruth Buckwalter 
v/ill be President for next year, and 
Floy Sample, secretary-trcasurcr. The 
voting will be confined to the office 
of Vice President, which has two 
candidates—Lois McGregor and Su­
zanne Knorr.
Rifle
The results of the Triangular 
Match- are as follows:
First stage ending March 22:
Men's vnraity ....................485Plebc men .........................................470Women’« vnraity ........................„...491The iilgll ucorcrH o£ the women’« tenroYicrc:c'rnffo ................................................99Whilolilll ............................-............99LI I Icy .................................................98ConvorBt) ....................................98Dulfy ...................................t.............97Second BliiKe ending Mnreii 29:Men’« vnruity ..................................49GJ'lcbo men .........................................49GWomen'» vnrully ............................489The hlch women fleorcro ¦ were:"Whitohill .................................100Sumplo ..... .........;.................. ..... 97Shcpjmrd ............................— 97Mutlicr ............................................ 97Li I Icy .............................................. 97ConverHe .............................;........ 97Brooks ...................'.................. ........ 97Third stiiKC ending April o:Men's varsity ...........—...................493Ptcbe men ......................................477Women's varsity .—............491High women's ucorers in the match v/cre:Lllley .....   ..................~ 99Sheppard ............—......... 98Whitehill ..................—  98Converse ..........................................98Monff ................................................98 .The Plebe men and the women’s 
varsity, being the two losing teams, 
will give a party for the winning 
men’s varsity team. Elizabeth 
Lilley a sophomore in M. M. C. C. 
has been appointed general chair­
man for the affair.
The Carnegie women shot a 
score of 493 in the match last 
week with the University of South­
ern California and the Quinnipiac 
Rifle and Revolver Club. The 
high scorers were:
Converse __________.__........____100
The- Carnegie Women’s Debating 
Club, will hold'' the next meeting 
Thursday, "April 24, in the com­
mittee room of Carnegie Inn at 
12:30 o’clock. As has been the cus­
tom this year, this will be a lunch­
eon meeting, followed by a debate.
The subject before the club will 
be: “Resolved, That Life Im­
prisonment Be Substituted for Capi­
tal Punishment.” Since this is to 
be a formal debate there will be 
four speakers. Those scheduled for 
the affirmative are Adelaide Mc- 
Closkey and Floy Sample, who will 
be opposed by Gertrude Novak and 
Alice Councill. The subject is one 
which has been discussed before 
in an open forum meeting, and 
judging from the intense interest 
manifested, . this, formal debate 
should prove quite interesting. The 
club extends an invitation to all 
Carnegie women;/to attend.
At this meeting nominations for 
next- - year’s officers will also be 
made.
Fraternities and Dorms 
To Compete for Track 
Honors This Week
Carnegie’s track squad will get its 
initial competitive workout in a prac­
tice meet with the P. A. A. track 
aspirants at the Pitt Stadium today. 
The official season will open with 
Western Reserve at Cleveland, April
GEORGE H. MERR1N
BASEBALL
The Phi Kappas wish to se­
cure games with other frater­
nities. Cajl “Dutch” Eytli at 
the Phi Kappa House, Schenlcy 
9739. If other groups wish to 
secure games, their request will 
be made known if they address 
it to “Sports, Carnegie Tartan,” 
and place iti in the school box.
Cupolas controlled 
from the laboratory
Thus far, the varsity squad is 
composed of between thirty and 
forty men, from which the Tartan 
representatives will be chosen by 
Coach Guy Hal forty. Captain Merten, 
Kennedy, Magnuson, Murdock, Price, 
Shafer, Brown, McFarlin, Ashwell, 
Wolfson and Nease are the likely 
men to be entered in the P. A. A. 
meet today.
At present, it is diffcult to de­
termine the calibre of the team-to-be. 
Some events, such as the longer 
runs, are especially well represented, 
While others, such as the javelin ¡and 
discus throws, arc practically neglect­
ed; in short, the squad .ucks versatil­
ity. 1-Iowever, after the practice meet 
today, Coach Halferty hopes to be 
able to determine the weakest events 
and concentrate i.iore upon their de­
velopment.
Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday 
of this week will also give the non- 
varsity trackmen an opportunity to 
prove their ability under fraternity 
and dormitory colors. The intra­
mural events will take place on the 
Cut and in the Bowl. Entries were 
made last Saturday and qualification 
try-outs will be held before the finals 
to determine the competitors. Last 
year’s honors were carried off by 
Beta Thcta Pi who won the cups 
offered for both the relay and other 
events. The field events will take 
place on the Cut, while the/ running 
and jumping events will be .held in 
the Bowl.
White hot rivers of metal, pouring from big 
cupolas in Crane foundries, arc even more 
thoroughly analyzed, more carefully watched, 
than the drinking water pouring from a faucet 
in a well-ordered city.
Because correct chemical ingredients in valve 
metals are as essential to absolute safety and 
right functioning of a piping installation as 
pure water to human health, Crane Co. has 
always maintained laboratory cohtrol of its 
cupolas.
This means that experts in the metallurgical 
and physical testing of metals arc responsible 
for the quality of every valve and fitting turned 
out. It means that tensile strength, yield point, 
elongation, and reduction of area of test bars 
taken every hour of the day’s run arc known to 
laboratory and cupola chemists.
It means that constantly, as the metals pour 
out, the proportion of silicon, manganese, car­
bon,phosphorus,calcium,pure iron, are known 
and uniformly maintained. It means immedi­
ate correction of any variation and rejection of 
faulty materials.
From specifications of raw materials to final 
installation, Crane Co. knows its products and 
what they will do. How Crane Co. developed 
the background for this knowledge makes an 
absorbing story. It is titled Pioneering in Science. 
You are cordially in vited to send for your copy. 
Aside from its interest, you will find it a splen­
did reference book, on the reactions of metals 
to high temperatures and pressures.
Whitehill 
Cra«o ... 
Sample . 
n rooks ... 
Mon g 
DufTy ......
3. Cedar Hall ___________ 3.89
4. Laurel» Hall ---------------- 3.85
5. Linden Hall --------------. 3.82
6. Birch Hall ___________ 3.76
7. Elm Hall ........................ 3.71
8. Magnolia Hall _______ 3.68
9. Hawthorne Hall _____ 3.66
10. Oak Hall ____________ 3.04
• The Women’s Dormitory Schol­
astic Rating Cup is not awarded at 
thi- time to the highest in the first 
semester rating, but in September 
to . the dormitory which has the 
highest average for both the first 
and second semesters of this year.
During this semester the total 
average of the fraternities has 
dropped .1347 Q. IVs, that of the 
men’s dormitories has fallen .046 
Q. P.’s, while that of the women's
On- of the most enjoyable of 
spring sports is baseball. Under the 
supervision of Lois McGregor, base­
ball manager, practices will begin this 
week, They will be held every noon 
from 12:30 to 1:30 in the Carnegie 
bowl. When the weather docs not 
permit, practices will be held in the 
women’s gym as in previous years. 
Baseball being a minor sport, 75 
points will be awarded to team mem­
bers and 50 points to those girls
who have attended half the scheduled 
number of practices.
W. A. A. Hike 
Two weeks ago ¦ Miss Porter 
chaperoned 16 women on an over­
night hike held at "Sky-High" on 
the Butler road. Everyone had 
such a delightful week-end that
next semester the W. A. A. will
plan for. several over-night hikes.
TYPEWRITERSHIGH SCHOLASTIC' HONORS
(Continued from Page One) 
women’s dormitories:_____
1. Forbes Hall —-----------'424
2. Mellon Hall _________ 4.06All Makes Sold and 
RentedMEMBERS TARTAN STAFF
The Whole School’s 
Talking! . . .
(Continued from Page One) 
board. The time, 6 to 7:30 p. m., 
will permit anyone who wishes to 
keep later engagements.
On May 2 the Tartan will be 
edited by the women of the staff. 
Till* is an annual custom in which 
the women do all the work them­
selves, The members of the Alpha 
Chi Alpha, the national journalistic 
honorary for women, will be in 
charge of make-up.
Special Rates to Students
Shnppnrd
Agency Underwood, 
Royal-Remington and 
Corona Portables
And there’s a reason I You’ll talk 
fast and happily, too, when you 
taste one of our much-talked- 
about charcoaled sandwiches.
First Church of Christ
SCIENTIST CLYDE ST.. PITTSBURGH SUNDAY SERVICES 11 A. M. 8 P. M.Sunday School 11 A. M.Wednesday evening services 8 to 9Open Friday and Saturday 
Evenings ’Til.2 A. M.Standard Typewriter Co.
129 FIFTH AVENUE
Phone Atlantic 0342
Fittinp
PIPING MATERIALS TO CONVEY AND CONTROL 
STEAM. LIQUIDS. OIL. GAS. CHEMICALS 
CRANE CO.. GENERAL OFFICES: 836 S. MICHIGAN AVE.. CHICAGO 
NEW YORK OFFICE: 23 WEST 44TH STREET 
Brancha and Salt! Offices in One Hundred and Ninety CitiftOakland Savings Sc 
Trust Company
“The Oakland Bank”
CAPITAL $300,000.00 SURPLUS $500.000.00 DEPOSITS OVER $6,000,000.00
painting and decorating, jmd sculpture 
is being held now in the exhibition 
rooms opposite the Little Theater in 
the Arts Building, The exhibition 
has been planned to open in time to 
nllow the teachers’ convention of the 
Western Pennsylvania Education Con­
ference to be held on the campus 
this week, to have an opportunity to 
see the work of the Carnegie stu­
dents. Though the exhibition will 
open soon, it will remain until the 
oiul of the month.
GIRLS’ GLEE CLUB
(Continued from Page One) senior in the Music Department, and 
Student Director for the past two 
years, will be greatly missed in this 
capacity. Her faithfulness and skill 
!n conducting, combined with the 
tearnest efforts of the other officers 
of the organization have led the club 
through two successful seasons. Miss 
Ethel Long, president; Mins Amelia 
(Miller, secretary; Miss Mary ^Eur- 
Jinugh, manager; Miss Elinor Kolm, 
librarian; Miss Lavina Holmes, so­
cial chairman; and Miss Clara Bach­
man accompanist, whose untiring 
efforts deserve much credit, are the 
officers who have assisted Miss Hanna 
¡during the past season. The girls 
were glad to welcome back to the 
‘final rehearsals before tbc concert, flsl^r. Karl Malcherck, their condue.- 
¡tor, who recently underwent a serious 
operation in New York, but who is 
how back in school and able’to rc- 
iumc his duties.
Enright Theater Bldg. 
EAST LIBERTYThe Personal Wricing Machine
SPRING CARNIVAL SHOW
(Continued from Psiije One)
Social Committee: Richard Devcrcll, 
chairman; Frank Foote; Virginia 
Morgan, Harriet Hanna and Carlton 
Lewis.
Country Fair; Robert Wright, 
chairman; Kenneth Owens, business; 
Dale Knouse, John Barnes, Peter 
Lombardo, Billie Bair and William 
Page.
Qualifications Committee: Richard 
Wright, chairman; William Walk and 
Frank Sturgcs.
Registration Committee: Henry
Bunker, chairman; Engineering, Wil­
liam McGregor; Margaret Morrison, 
Ida Campbell; Industries, Paul
Kramer and Walter Jameson.
Construction Committee: Louis 
Buran, chairman; James Traa, George 
Nease, William Pfouts and John 
Johnstown.
C. B. Aylosworth.R. ). Miller______
0. C. Young------lr. W. Cotton____C. W. Eh ni______
Adam Roscoe —
.President-------Vice President_________Treasurer
.Assistant Treasurer____._____Secretary
-Assistant Secretary
DIRECTORSC. B. Aylesworth James B. Clark John Dimling 
Barney Dreyfuss J. Rogers Flannery
L. H. Gethoefer 
C. H. Kerr J. O. Miller 
R. J. Miller John G. PewMR. FULLER, DESIGNER
A. B. Sheets(Continued from Page One)
¦¡tor them. In the lecture here at 
Carnegie, Mr. Fuller will exhibit a 
¡metal model of his dymaxion house 
ftD, as it is called. The house is 
built of transparent material to al­
low the sun’s rays to enter.
An exhibition of students’ work 
in the department of architecture,
Member Federal Reserve System
TORCH SINGER 
SLAYS LOVERS!Study Engineering §
_ In Co©! ®®l©g*ad©
¦I\vomau is packing them in 
again, as tlie warbling star of
Ziegfeld Theatre these days
would swear that all New ^
York’s millions were trying
Whether you see Ruth, the f s 
Sweetheart of Columbia J
Records, in the calcium or -----¦....•*"**.......................
not, you’ll want this lively song hit of the new show, sung 
by the little lady herself.
And what a corking love tunc she gives you on the bonus 
side of this great record! If it doesn’t plant this disc right 
under your arm in a hurry—PLEASE see your doctor!
Record No. 2M6-D—10 iuch-—75c 
Ten Cents a Dance (from “Simple Simon") I Vocals 
Funny, Dear. What Love Can Do i Ruth Etting
»ONT SHOOT!” cried the willowy Winona aXê)
“And why not, my gal?” demanded Wellington Threeves, thrusting 
liis classic chin against lier heavingjbosom.
“Because,” replied Winona, “you will not be annoyed at bridge by 
his huskiness any longer. He has promised that, if spared, he will 
change to OLD GOLDS, made from quccn-leaf tobacco. Not a throat 
scratch in a trillion.” -
OLD GOLD
FASTEST GROWING CIGARETTE IN HISTORY.. .NOT A COUGH fN A CARLOAD
OLD GOLD—PAUL WHITEMAN HOUR. Paul Whiteman and complete orche» tt* ... erery Tuesday, 9 to 1> P. H.. Eaattrn Standard Tima

---------------------------------------------------

jyCBSPXY, XPRIC 15, 1930.fHE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
tibe Carnegie flMaiò
EASTER RECESS STARTS APRIL 17 
NIGHT CLASSES RESUME APRIL 21
A SECTION OF THE TARTAN 
DEVOTED TO 
THE NIGHT STUDENTS
Locker Key Fund 
To Aid Endowment
Desiring to swell the Endow­
ment fund this year, the Night 
Student Council has obtained, per­
mission. to solicit the nibht students 
for their Locker Key Refund.
Each year the Council has added 
considerable to the Endowment 
Fund and not wanting to let 1929- 
30 go by, they are again going to 
ask the night student body to help 
put across another successful cam­paign.
This time it is the Locker Key 
Refund. For $1 the school lets 
you have the use oC a jockcr for 
a whole year. Did you ever stop 
to think what a great amount of 
convenience is derived from this 
?l? It is worth a great deal more, 
so in return all we arc asking is 
that you return Che key to the 
Locker Key Room before the ex­
piration of the forfeit date and 
sign a card turning this $1 over 
to th'c Endowment Fund, We are 
not asking much and surely each 
night student wants to help se­
cure the Endowment which Car­
negie Tech is endeavoring to ob­tain.
An authorization blank is print­
ed on this page and we are confi­
dent a large number of night stu­
dents will* sign and turn it in with their key.
Night Graduates Includ 
ed in Commencement 
Booklets
LOCKER JŒYSSPRING NUMBER OF PUPPET OUT TODAYLOCKER KEY REFUND
I desire the $1.00 Locker Key Refund (Contingent upon return of Key) due to me to be turned over to the Night Student Council for application on the Student Activities Building project of the Carnegie 1946 Endowment Fund.
All night students having locker 
keys should return them to Locker 
Key Room, Basement Arministra- 
tion Hall on or before May 2. 
Key Room is open every evening 
from 7 to 9 until May 2 (holidays 
exceptcd) and will also be open 
on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fri­
days from May 4 to May 17 at 
the same hours.
PHOTOGRAPHS
Special Offer to Students 8x10 Portrait in Easel Frame, $2.95.Actual $10.00 Value.25% Discount on Other Orders.
FRANK TOTINO STUDIO
3710 FORBES ST.. OAKLAND
UNIVERSITY
RESTAURANTThere has been an extctition of 
time made for the ordering of 
Commencement Booklets to include 
Tuesday and Wednesday evenings 
of this week. Between 7 and 8:30 
o’clock p. m. orders will be taken 
by salesmen in the Hall of Ad­
ministration Building. Samples of 
the announcements arc on display. 
They are printed in two styles: a 
black leather-covered one with the 
gold “C,” priced at 50 cents, and 
a white cardboard-covered one, 
tied with the Carnegie colors, at 
25 cents. The announcements must 
be paid for when ordered.
This year the announcements will 
include a ’list of the night students 
who are graduating or who are 
receiving certificates. The book­
lets may be used in place of the 
regular commencement announce­
ments. They will also include a 
complete list of seniors of all four
Newly Equipped. Up-to-date eookwg 
.4605 Forbes Street; Near CraigDuring that time each man secur­
ed a fall and'Geyser succeeded in 
holding the State Heavyweight 
Champion even for the entire 
period.
Plenty of action was shown by 
the boxers also. The first bout 
saw Peter Weber and Stubby 
Kline in a fracas that almost ended 
in a knockout. Weber had a wide 
margin and was an easy winner of 
this scrap. The second bout brought 
Cy Brown and Sam Alexander 
together, -with plenty of fireworks. 
These boys popped sky-rockets and 
roman candles at each other on 
even terms for three rounds and 
their efforts met with the apr 
proval of the assembled multitude.
The door prize drawing gave 
first prize to John Stypula, Ma­
chine Shop, second prize to M.. 
Brinjok, Auto Maintenance and Oper­
ation, and third prize to Morris 
Sperzit, Electrical Equipment and 
Construction.
Lunch was the final number on 
the program and from appearances 
it seemed to be the most impor­
tant. Everybody was served cafe­
teria style with ham and cheese 
sand wiches, olives and. pickels, 
apples, ice cream and milk. There 
was plenty for everyone -if you 
only got in line and followed up, 
The Kiltie Band Avas again on the 
job with their music during the 
lunch. They had played through­
out the evening and were now 
todting between bites, first a toot 
and then a pickle, then another 
toot and then a bottle of milk, etc.
The entire program was full of 
life, and not a minute passed but 
that something was happening. It1 
is a credit to Industries that their 
smokers are the wonderful suc­
cesses they are. The hard work 
done by the officers and the men 
who assisted them in making all 
preparations for the smokers, is 
not done- in vain when you see 
the large crowds which enjoy these 
affairs, and help to make them 
possible. May we have more of 
them.
NIGHT INDUSTRIES 
SMOKER BIG SUCCESScolleges, attractive vieWs of the 
campus buildings, and the entire 
program of commencement week. 
The booklet may be used in place 
of the usual commencement an­
nouncement and as a means of 
keeping the names of the members 
of your class.
The Second Semester Smoker of 
the Night College of Industries 
held March 29 certainly went over 
big. When the Night Industries 
men put on an affair they usually 
do . it right', as can be verified 
by any one of the 900 or so who 
attended this latest success.
# As you entered the Gym you 
were literally bombarded with cig­
arettes, matches, cigars, cigarette 
holders, Flip-top and variofis kinds 
of noise makers. The Kiltie Band 
was there in full uniform and pro­
vided the music throughout the 
evening. There were a couple of 
t£>od comic movies, which at all 
times had the crowd in an uproar 
and put everyone in good humor.
After the movies we were en­
tertained by a colored boy by the 
name of Bill Bailey. - He said we 
could call him Sam for short. 
Anyway, this Bailey person played 
a mean harmonica and shook a 
nasty pair of feet. His interpreta­
tion of the St. Louis Blues was 
something new.
Next on the program was some­
thing entirely different from that 
ever seen rtt any of the smokers 
before. A troup of supple lads: 
H. E. McGannon, George Vessels, 
with Harry Ingram acting as ref­
eree, gave a fencing exhibition 
which had some of the audience 
believing that somebody might get 
hurt. As the fencers thrust and 
parried (I think that’s what you 
call it), they brought to mind "the 
days of old when knights were 
bold and battled for their ladies^ 
fair and. the best man didn’t al­
ways win,” However, it was quite 
thrilling and. thoroughly enjoyed 
by all. By the way. these three 
boys arc Night Engineering Stu­
dents.
The athletic entertainment con­
sisted of one wrestling match and 
two boxing bouts. The wrestling 
match between Jimmy Geyser and 
Omar Iieid was a corker. It was 
nip and tuck, first one man having 
the advantage and then the other. 
The match was to be best two 
falls out of three in 12 minutes.
.proye.d to be an evening well spent 
by all those who attended. This 
event winds up the individual ac­
tivities of the Night Engineers. 
The different affairs held , this year 
have all shown a large increase in 
attendance. Keep the good work 
up and don’t lose the spirit during 
the long vacation, which is near 
at hand; for some of us, any­
way. —M.
I see that a supplementary Lerm 
is scheduled for night students 
after the close of the present 
regime. It lasts from May 5 to 
July 3 for a regular term, and a 
special term to August 2, weather, 
health, etc., permitting. Surely is a 
great help to night students to be 
able to take this supplementary 
course. It should give an oppor­
tunity to catch up on some courses 
which have fallen by the wayside. 
I will have to take inventory and 
see if I can grasp off four or five 
of the subjects.The need of an Activities Build­
ing as outlined in last week’s Plaid 
Page was certainly brought honic 
forcibly at the Cartoon Dance of 
the Night College of Fine Arts. 'A 
building . is certainly needed and 
the night students should all put 
their shoulders to the wheel and 
help put over this project.
Speaking of the Cartoon Dance— 
Jt was a delightful success. Such 
clever decorations one hardly sees 
anywhere. Certainly shows a lot 
of work on the part of some indi­
viduals. And did you notice—apol­
ogies—how quickly some of the
cartoons disappeared after the bal­
loon scramble. Somebody's work, 
how long or how short, I don t 
know, was carted off in a tinkle, 
and how bare the walls of the
Union looked. However, every­
body had a grand time, and the
only regret is that this is the last 
Arts Dance of the year. Hope for 
¡more next year.Who said we were going to get 
paper towels? I have been on the lookout for these elusive articles 
for the past while back, and only 
»barely ani able to find even * 
^¿emblance of one. When I do,
(you may be sure I use it with 
Avidity. I guess we will have to 
padlock the containers so that 
•there will be a supply at all times 
*yhen they are needed.
NIGHT STUDENTS 
PUPPET OUT TODAY
STUDENTS
ACCOUNTS WELCOME
at -t
Forbes National Bank
FIFTH AND OAKLAND PITTSBURGH
Have you chosen 
your life work?
In T3IK field of health wrvlce the Har­vard University Dental School—the old- est dental school connectcd with any university in the United Stat»—offera thorough well-biilancid cour«i In all Branches 01 dentistry. All modern etjuijv ment fot practical work under super­vision of men hlcli in the orofession. 
WrUi 1er details and admission require­ments to Leroy it. S. Miner. Dean
THE HARVARD UNIVERSITY 
DENTAL SCHOOL 
Dept. Cl Longwootl Aye., Boston,Mnss.
EASTER RECESS
I here will not be any night 
classes on Thursday or Friday eve­
nings of this week because of the 
Easter vacation. This little vaca­
tion will enable many students to 
prepare for tlie final examinations that are just ahead. •
Night classes will be resumed on 
Monday, April 21. at the usual hours.THE HAVEN OF TECH STUDENTS IN EAST LIBERTY
CANDYLAND
Friendly Co-operation
The co-operation of a 
great banking institution is 
available to the college stu­
dent of modest income as 
well as to great corpora­
tions. You'll find at the 
Mellon National Bank a 
friendly atmosphere of in­terest and good will and a 
readiness on. the., part of the officers to helpt you with anv 
of your financial' problems, regardless of the size of your account.
WILL BE OPEN EVERY FRIDAY NIGHT 
UNTIL 2:30 A. M,
6214 Penn Avenue East Liberty
WHAT YOUNGER 
COLLEGE MEN 
ARE DOING WITH 
WESTINGHOUSEDEAD METAL LEAPS TO LIFE
at the hands of Westinghouse engineers
flight Engineers Smoker
The smoker held in the Union '>*centiy was a complete success. 
iThe entertainment included movies 
Bud several vodville acts that were 
thoroughly enjoyed by all. The 
&novies furnished through the cour- 
feesy. of the. Bell Telephone Com- aa.ny were both entertaining and 
Instructive. These pictures were 
appreciated very much by the engi­
neers.
Dale Smith was evidently not to 
be out-done by the large movie 
houses, as lie had a master of 
¡ceremonies on hand, to lead the 
group singing as well as to furnish 
gome individual., entertainment.
.The smoker .wound up as all 
&ood' smokers should, with the 
eats. Every one present seemed 
to do justice to the lunch that was 
served.
The ‘affair was well arranged and
SANDWICHES OF ALL KINDS MADE TO ORDER
TheNEW SKIBO ..INN.. 
Solicits Your Patronage
“Good. Food Better”
W. F. BOYLE 
fnttliutitutc, *2T 
TurMtui Sal«College JewelrySeal StationeryPennantsC. M. STAUFT
3806 FORBES STREET
Loose Leaf Notebooks and General Students Supplies
ripes save no 
midnight oil
r
.p PIPES made the man; anybody 
at all could rise in the world just 
by smoking a'few pounds of Edge- 
worth. But pipes do not make the man«
, Men make tlie pipe—most men do. 
Somewhat depends on the individual 
more on the pipe; and the tobacco ie 
most important of all* Things must be congeniaL
Edgeworth io a congenial tobaeeoj 
cool; alow-rbuming; fully flavored. 
Edgeworth has poise; kindly good 
nature; real tobacco personality — 
Edgeworth welcomes new friends. 
Many a good man has been pledged 
to pipes by Edgeworth alone.
Like to meet Edgeworth? Just aak 
with the coupon—and the postman 
will bring your first few pipefuls of 
the genuine; three years seasoned if 
it’s a day. Our treat; if you please.
Others have found Edgeworth and 
quit their discontent.
So may it be with you!
a toriei pause 
for station 
announcement
R.H.HAMNBY 
TuAV26 Cwdtflttr Sak*
TT is engineering that breathes the 
spark of life into lifeless metal, 
that converts it into active machin­
ery, that makes of it an adaptable 
servant. One essential ingredient of 
that engineering is imagination. A 
second is rational thinking, the 
object of your technical training. 
And the third is teamwork.
In the development of the 55,000 
kw. Duke Power Turbines, team­
work extended back to the date 
when George Westinghouse 
brought the steam turbine to 
America. It included men who 
have made life studies of vibration, 
of blade design, of the effects of 
superheated steam on me tab; men 
who know how to make huge cast­
ings, the packers who have mas­
tered the science of shipping giant
*. S. THATCHER 
Drexel Institute,‘U Production Htportmenf
The ys,coo \w. turbine generator unit* that Westing* 
house built for the River Send station of Dul{e Power 
Company are the largest in the South.Pausethat refreshes
EDGEWORTHH.B.lUflMUSSBN
Turbin« ßngliucriwEdgeworth 1» ¦ careful blend 
of ¿oad tobaccos — »elected 
especially for pipe-smoking. Ito 
Quality »nd flavor never 
chanie. Buy it nnywhero 
— “Ready Rubbed" or 
‘‘Plug Blicc”—15* pockct 
/ package to pound huxnl-
J dor tin.
machinery. And it took in ako the 
business men who create a market 
for such machinery and who cement 
together the many-fold activities of 
the Westinghouse institution.
:'-rr-Stand by everybody! for Coca-Cola broadcast* 
ing a program of delicious refreshment from 
every ice-cold glass and bottle. Operating 
on a frequency of nine million drinks a day.
The happiest, shortest cut to refreshment is 
the briefpause for Coca-Cola. The drink that 
tunes in with all places« times» occasions and 
raood6. The easiest-to-take settingup exer­
cise ever invented, while its deligntrul, tin­
gling taste will provide you with one of life’s great moments.
Tht CoaCclz Coajuey, AlUcU, G*.
1 t*enu & Bro. Co.; Richmond, Va.
I’ll try your Edgeworth. And I’ll try i 
I (tin « good pipe.
TWitnei'o my *ealj
J. C. HARPER 
bfa'/ett« College, ’20 
Turbint Sak*
(tmi my eeat ot leaxrungj"
"" (and ray pcntoláce and otafëT 
Now let the Edgeworth come!

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, APRIL' 1?, 1930.
Dependable
For College parties and for Class and Fratcrniiy affairs our service 1» de­pendable and reasonably priced.
We are glad to furnish the Pastries. Ice Creams, Candies, etc.. for affairs that don’t require cater­ing.
We Rent Equipment 
Tables, and chairs with covers, also linens, china, silver and glassware rented in any quantity. 
Try our noon and evening lunches when tn E. Liberty
Store Hours:8 A. M. to 11:30 P. M.
phone Mayflower 2600
Publlnhod once evory -week durlnsr tho college year by underRrraduntcB of Carnegie 
Institute of Technology. Entered in the Pittsburgh Post Office as second-class matter.
THE STAFF
Editor-in-Chicf I Business Manager j"
Plaid Editor------------Managing Editor-----
News Editor_‘Women’s Editor----------------------------
ASSOCIATE EDITORS 
Wilfred Worland Henry L. Bunker 
Janet Adler Hyman J. Levinson
ALUMNI
'Alumni Editor___Ida M. Campbell
JUNIOR EDITORS 
G. L. Borgerding Ii. R. Wall 
Isabel Levin John J. Boyle
J. F. Spencer
BUSINESS
Advertising Manager—David Genter 
Paul Wile Irwin Fritz
J. P. Jones William Gesling
R. E. Campbell 
SECRETARIAL ASSISTANTS 
Mary Gordan Pearle M. Goldberg 
Floy Sample Dorothy Yingling
—Thomas W. Lippert
_Edw. E. McDonald______Jacob S. Larpe_____Catherine Boyd_____Rosemary Barr
ATHLETICS
__Dodo Merrin„Johnny Alms
Jim Suitt—Tank Highberger Mike Miçhaelson
Editor ___Assistants.
Reporters—Bud Hower
PLAID STAFF 
James S. Gcyer E. DeLorenzoE. J. Molyncaux D. £. South
CONTRIBUTORS
F. E. Foote Nancy NewmanHelen Whitehill
REPORTERS
V. McBride K. A. Palcn N. Sloan G. M. Jarvis S. Winikoff E. Steiner 
E. Pearsall M. Hauser D. Mather
O. WenigerG. NovakH. D. Kolb K. L. Grcss Z. Mazza B. Apple R. Grant 
L. Hoyer H. MaxwellJ. Ginder
Office—Room 12, Industries Building. Office Hours—Monday lo Thursday, 12:30- 
1:20. Paper made up Friday 12:30-6:00.
To insuro publication on tho succcedlng Tuesday .news Items must be in the 
student post office or Tartan Offico before 4:30 Thursday.
After Office Hours. Call—
Editor, Mayflower 7208 ; Plaid Editor, Schenley 23S9 
Managing Editor, Homestead 0785-R; Business Manager, Schenley 9082 
Advertising Manager, Schenley 9211
From the Fence
Why an R. O. T. C. at Carnegie?
Back in the days before Carnegie students were cadets, 
pretty co-ed honorary colonels, and army officer instructors, 
military training was imposed only in land-grant colleges. How­
ever, in 1916 and again in 1920, when a belated war-fever flared 
lip, the military authorities, capitalizing their privileges in the 
land-grant colleges, persuaded Congress to. extend their entree 
to other campuses. And now, thanks to our patriotic educators, 
the bearers of glory are now ensconced through R.O.T.C. units 
in some 130 colleges and in the high schools of fifty-five cities. 
Indeed, our custodians of wisdom were so .impressed by the 
glitter of the army that they consented, ofttimcs, to an educa­
tional ritual in which the sword became mightier than the pen.
But why should Carnegie tolerate military instruction? 
Does it benefit the students, and does it justify its existence? 
A consensus of opinion among members of the Board of Trus­
tees brings to light an enthusiasm for such training because of 
its value as exercise, as preparation for future wars, and as an 
instrument to create straight thinking, sound minds, discipline, 
and manly character. However, they completely ignore the 
reality, the utter ridiculousness, of the imparted training, but 
above all the biasing of minds which will, without doubt, re­
turn as a vicious boomerang in the future. We would say that 
military training at Carnegie is a farce, part of a well-organized 
plan of militarists to make the country military-minded, which 
will culminate in a future conflict of probably their own instiga­
tion. Not that we preach pacifism which is being completely 
ignored herein, but we do believe in tolerance, in moderation, 
the absolute opposite of which is being advanced by such 
training.
In 1930 the United Kingdom and France each worked under 
a military budget of $500,000,000, Japan one of $200,000,000, 
while the United States topped the $700,000,000 mark and plans 
an expenditure of some $S03,000,000 in 1933. President Hoover 
pleaded for relief from such.continuously mounting expenditures, 
but due to military enthusiasm throughout the country he could 
do nothing. Such enthusiasm is a direct result of R.O.T.C. and 
C.M.T.C. units, as well as to the conscientious propaganda 
broadcasted by those journalistic peers, the Iiearst newspapers. 
Can’t the educators realize that they become merely dupes in 
a system which tolerates more extensive preparation and out­
lay than Germany was ever accused of? Any student of world 
affairs would ridicule the statement that such a machine will 
be used merely for protection.
What do they teach the students in the R.O.T.C.? We 
have asked ourselves this question time and again as wc see 
them marching across the Cut to the tune of grim faces, curling 
banners, and mock swords. These boys who play at war and 
arc under the impression that as second lieutenants in the n^xt 
conflict they will stand in a safe area directing the activities of 
others. If they should put them through the hard grind neces­
sary for the serious business of war, you can be sure that the 
work would not be popular with Carnegie students. They must 
find other reasons to justify the expenditure. Practically all en­
thusiasts admit that militarism is secondary, but sell it to the 
public by saying that they teach them to be "clean young men” 
which probably means, to brush their teeth, to take warm baths, 
to salute officers, to march spryly in a parade, and, of course, 
to believe in bigger and better military establishments. This 
would be funny if it were not quite so serious. Iiow has it 
come about that Carnegie should turn to the Army for school­
teachers and wet nurses?
During the war, and since that time, the states of New 
York, Massachusetts and New Jersey have studied the value 
of drill in their schools. All these states advised against it, 
New York doing so 'after having tried a state-wide system. 
Henry S. Prichett, President of the Carnegie Foundation for 
Advancement of Teaching, once said, “The college is not the 
place in which to impart military training.” Theodore Roose­
velt, the President who said, “I want young men not only will­
ing, but anxious, to fight” also instructed his^sons against mili­
tary training in school. Gen. Robert E. Lee would not permit 
military training in Washington and Lee University, saying that 
such training was not best suited to qualify young men for the 
duties of the citizen. Nearly 2000 Cornellians some time ago 
signed a petition to make military training optional, and more 
that forty universities have done so. Columbia and the Uni­
versity of North Carolina have abolished it. Lieutenant-Colonel 
Herman J. Koehler, a traitor within the ranks, said, “The use 
of the musket as a means of physical development for any one, 
be he man or boy, is more than worthless. It is, in my opinion, 
positively injurious. I deny absolutely that military drill con­
tains one worthy feature which cannot be duplicated in every 
well-regulated gymnasium.” Roosevelt also said of the army 
men similar to the ones giving the instruction, “It was melan­
choly for me to see how fossilized and lacking in ambition, and 
generally useless, were most of the men of my age and over, 
who had served their lives in the army.”
The vanity of the students is touched by a smart, individ­
ually-fitted, uniform—not the $4.25 service suits worn by the 
doughboys in France, but trim $20 to $30 outfits, for the ad­
vanced student at Carnegie, which give dash to the dullest boy. 
When the appropriations committee attempted to reduce the 
cost of college regalia in the 1929 bill, Major General Summcrall, 
Chief of Staff, declared: “A proper uniform will go further than 
any one other thing toward popularizing the R.O.T.C.” His 
allies, the presidents of the Universities of Illinois and Minne­
sota echoed: “The loss in strength of our advanced course, as
a result of the reduction, may run from 40 to 50%.
And another very effective device of the army instructors 
has been the injection of sex appeal into the military ballyhoo. 
The more sophisticated often ask why girls are willing to be 
the dupes of the war machine and to stoop to this form of 
advertising. The answer is probably found in the notriety and 
publicity that goes with the positions, as it has admirable
Our mail is increasing. Someone 
else has sought our helpful advice 
in solving heartaches, and their let­
ter follows:
Dear From-the-Fcncc:
After reading the excellent ard 
very careful advice you gave that 
poor grief-stricken boy who wrote 
to you last week, I have decided to 
tell you of my troubles, and know 
that you will be able to help mo. 
Now, Mr. Fence, I am in a very 
embarrassing position. I have beea 
going with a boy very much latel]*, 
and I, spare my blushes, really liks 
him quite a b{t. There is only on2 
fault which this young man has 
which caused me to shudder when 
I am with him. 7Ti has a. long, blacc 
moustache which often bothers ms 
extremely. Now what I should 
like to know is this. Would it be a 
real test of his love for me if, 
upon my request, he might shave 
it. off? Is it all right for me to 
ask him to do this? Please advisu 
me correctly' for I can’t bear ever 
the thought of losing him.
I would also like to ask one or 
two more personal questions. I am 
about five feet four inches in height 
and have dark black hair. How 
much should I weigh, and wlial 
color would make me more daring] 
Yours perplexingly,
Floy Sample.
P. S.—I cnjojrcd your information 
to the Dragon Dodo-boy. And 
isn’t he cute?
F. S.
Dear Floy:
Yours is indeed an interesting 
problem. If I w’erc in your shoes 
I wouldn’t think of asking this' 
man to shave off his moustache. 
Men, especially Physics students, 
are very particular about their ap­
pearance, and he might beco 
riled if asked to part with 
pride and joy. Just shiver and 
dure, my dear, and I’m sure 
thing will come off in a hurry.
'As to your weight, write to Dr. 
Esqucrrc and he will solve the 
problem with little trouble. From 
what I know of you, you might 
look like an angel in white.
F. T. Fence.
P. S.—Thanks for the compliment 
concerning tlie handsome Dodo. He 
tells me he has been helped ma­
terially as a result of this column’s 
information.
F. T. F.
That’s All You Get, Kiltie THISTLEDOWN
Random shots and random 
thought's. Miss Atilma (Count Your) 
Blessing of those effervescent Mag­
gie Murph plcbcs reports a tea 
dance on May 1, said tea dance to 
be held by the same effcryescent 
group. Save the date and half a 
dollar. These plebcs arc planning 
a boat ride and your money may 
come back fiftjr-fold—then again, 
it may not.
Wc wish the authorities would 
see to it that those bums sleeping 
in SclTcnley Park every afternoon 
would be removed. Wc always did 
think the Electrical Engineers 
should have more afternoon classes.
The R. O. T. C. was out in full 
blast1 last,Thursday, and those 
who run around with the. 
f)ags certainly had their hands full. 
From where we sat, Joe Cook had 
the best form in the cute 
sprints, although -one Paul Ziegler 
of Chagrin Falls, O'., was hot far 
behind.
Wc ¦ like , the moustache ’ 
Whiteman brought back after a
“MjLNjy “
iASTtX 
YAC ATI
-T>f.MVS0UP*
S cur* Co Stu *•' O-*'!
•M TCi-v vv/ * ar pr=
~ '^OtS.C IAUH.V
HAPPINESS
Time and again I have asked myself, “What is it that wili bring the greatest happiness?” and I have always landed squarely on “service” as the only possible answer. Analyze wealth, power, the idle rich and all the rest of the string and in these by them­selves you will not find a happiness that satisfies. But how about service? The best way to find out is to try it. Try the kind that costs a bit of time, some effort, maybe a bit of the pocket- book. The best of all perhaps is personal cffont. Try it some­times—go out of your, way to help some fellow who is-sick, or in trouble, or who has reached some crisis calling' for a friend, and if you don’t come away with a joy that beats anything else you ever had, then I am all wrong. And then if you will do it again and get the habit and smile and say nice things and think- fine things about everybody and finally forget yourself in the great occupation of service, believe me, you will find a happiness, ' real and lasting and that has every other joy beaten to a frazzle.
M. F. SCAIFE
siege with the mumps. There must 
be some connection between mumps 
and moustaches for Ted is the sec­
ond to return with a dirty upper 
lip after a session with this disease, 
Rajah Ellis being the other.
According to Charles F. Danvcr 
of “Sidewalks of Pittsburgh” Rudv 
Vallce will ¿pen the Willows this 
year. We’ll wager that Charlie 
Sclsam will be right on hand, tak­
ing lessons, and doing his best to 
add to his appeal. \
Two pleb'c reporters want to see 
their names in print. They arc:
(1) Dolly Allison of Swissvalc, ahd
(2) Mary Elizabeth Prcllcr, Dor- 
mont. Then, in addition, there is 
Dorothy Lilton McKee, a transient 
guest at present.
Loretta O’Toole tells us we have 
very, very mean to poor little 
Janet McClelland. We arc awfully
“press” value. Some little lady from Frog Hollow, by the
simple expedient of parading with the R.O.T.C. will get her
picture in scores of papers from coast to coast. Over it will be 
some such caption as “Military Queen,” “Nifty Colonel,” “She 
Rules the Men,” “Who Wouldn’t Salute Her?” etc. Even the 
father of the flivver would envy the free space these charming 
officers secure for themselves and the R.O.T.C. She gets the
popularity, the militarists get the boys, and Uncle Sam gets the
bill.
And then there is one other point conspicuous because of 
its questionable ethics. Officials of the War Department ad­
mitted to the House committee that bayonet work was removed 
from the R.O.T.C. because it did not tend to make the course 
popular. Believing in preparedness, and also believing in the 
bayonet as a sine qua non the War Department is on question­
able grounds in this move. We may ask whether the R.O.T.C. 
prefer popularity to national preparedness.
What are the results of this program of popularizing? The 
first answer is that it works. Set up such a thrilling machine, 
reinforcing all our traditional regard for the military, appealing 
to our vanity, our egotism,'our ambition, our love of applause, 
call it patriotism, make the work easy -and youth will join in 
large numbers. When duty becomes such a pleasure, we are 
all very faithful and devoted to the service of our country.
But the vicious results of this delightful “playing at soldier­
ing,” is the keeping alive of those habits of thought and feeling 
which make that anachronism, War, so popular in our modern 
world. Wars come because men and nations have been schooled 
for centuries by building up habits of thought and feeling which 
make men accept war as inevitable, as patriotic, as glorious. 
This “playing at the war game” which characterizes the 
R.O.T.C, must surely throw an emotional halo around the mili­
tary machine which will lead these boys and girls to act ir­
rationally and foolishly on matters of international relations. 
It is dangerous to make it personally profitable for boys and 
girls to support a system which is tied up with the continuance 
of war—enrolling boys and girls in the military fraternity under 
such stimuli makes clear thinking almost hopeless.
¦ Next year, while the officers, resplendent in trappings, are 
luring the notoriously gullible freshmen to the uniform, by 
promises of pay and glory, why doesn’t Carnegie also present a 
speaker to warn them against the systerh ? With 72% of our 
Federal funds going to the war machine, the public becomes a 
modern Sisyphus, laboring under constantly increasing burdens. 
If such preparation and enthusiasm is to be created, Carnegie 
should follow the meritorius example of Columbia and several 
others and reject the part they are playing in the system. They 
watch our morals so very carefully, but for the sake of a few 
dollars and some instruction taken off their hands, they send 
their students away with profound sympathy for military 
maneuvers, enthusiasm and willingness for force which will 
victimize them in the future. We wonder when Doctor Baker 
reviews the drawn-up ranks this spring whether he is of the 
opinion that he has given the graduates a good dowry or 
whether lie recognizes the insidious implications which are para­mount in the whole structure?
U
sorry, Janet, and, if you’re careful, 
you won’t hear from .us 'in the 
future.
To Miss Isabel Levin:—We are 
still doing .our very best to give 
you all the publicity you warrant, 
hut you are so quiet, and its very 
hard to find things to. say about you.
In the latest dramatic atrocity, 
"The Virgin and the Clerk,” the 
thing we enjoyed most was the 
Helen Kane-ish accent on the owl 
who spent about 15 minutes ’owling 
“Boo boop. a do.”
Did you notice the two cute 
little lads who bowed you in at 
the Scholarship Benefit last week? 
One was Jack Boyle, and we can’t 
name the other for it would be 
ccnsorcd without doubt. However, 
we'll make, a try—it was Mr. Lip- pert.
And in conclusion, let us tell you 
of Chaunccy Beach Yolic, Monon- 
gahela, Pa., who is the pride of the 
Senior Builders, if they have any 
pride. Chaunccy is very adept at 
aiding • his digestion by certain 
muscular movements, is very fond 
of Brock Bros, licoricc, and, in ad­
dition, can make money disappear 
more quickly than the rest of these clever lads put together.
VICTORIOUS PLEBE
(Continued from Page One) 
1,239; on April 5 Plebes traveled 
to Iviski where they were victors 
for the second time. In the latter 
match Stephen Scherba made the 
highest total score of 195 -with a 
100 prone.
(Continued from Page One) 
David Teniers, the Younger, was 
born in Antwerp in 1610, and died 
at Perch near Brussels in 1690. He 
was a pupil of his father, David 
Teniers, the Elder, but it is said 
that after lie. left his father’s studio, 
he studied with Rubens. Teniers 
painted nearly every kind of sub­
ject, but his best paintings arc con­
fined to sccncs from pcasont life.
The panel is now on exhibition 
in the permanent collection at the 
institute.
WEST PENN EDUCATIONAL
(Continued from Page One) discussion held by the Fine Arts 
section in the Little Theater on Saturday morning.
Each section of the conference 
was addressed by an eminent edu­
cator in that division of education. 
After the opening address, discus­
sion followed.
Whose bright idea was it that a 
radio would make the Grill a 
pleasanter place to cat in? There 
are still a few students left at 
Carnegie ¦who arc able to exist 
without hearing Amos and Andy 
trying to be funny every night.
When will enough money be 
available to make the alterations 
in the Grill which will make1 quick 
service possible? The time Car­
negie students waste trying to get 
lunch there ought to be saved 
them. Some of the money the 
school spends bringing lecturers 
here to address audicnccs of 30 to 
50 people might much better be 
spent on the Grill.
The school catalog has long 
printed a statement that Carnegie 
maintains two cafeterias for the 
benefit of the students. What 
“benefit” is supposed to .mean- the 
catalog does not say. It certainly 
docs not mean financial benefit. It
is hardly possible to get a dcccm 
meal at the Commons, but if one 
does, he pays for it as much or
more than he would pay at any
Oakland restaurant. Skibo serves 
as good a nical for 50 cents as the 
Grill docs, and Skibo, like any pub­
lic restaurant, is a money-making 
proposition. The hygiene depart­
ment tells us when we are fresh­
men what we should cat. If wc
go to the Grill and try to buy the
model meals rccomtncndcd to us, 
wc find them so expensive wc can­
not afford them. If the Grill is 
not making a huge profit as it is 
run, it is very incfficictitly run. 
Yet if there is a profit, there is 
no evidence that is it being used 
to benefit the students by improv­
ing Grill facilities, or to give them 
better, more varied, or larger por­
tions of food.
Cardo Chardo Discnwollc.
INTRA-MURAL BASKETEERS
(Continued from Page One) 
berg, 2; Klein, 2; Cohen, Frcc- 
landcr, 2.
Fouls: Betas,.5 out of 12; Beta 
Sigma Rlios, 4 out of 11.
The finals of the intra-mura! 
basketball league opened Monday 
night between the Phi Kappa and 
the Beta Theta Pi fraternities. 
The Betas won the contest, 22-17, 
in an up-hill fight. The score at 
the half was 11-7, in favor of. the 
Phi Kappas and things looked very 
favorable for them. Undci; the 
strategy of Coach Nease, the Betas 
entered the second half and man­
aged to bring the game to a stand­
still by the end of the third period, 
(lie score being 16-16.- Here Bates 
was fouled while caging a field 
goal under the basket. He .missed 
his .first attempt, but succeeded in 
making the second trial, thus bring­
ing the score to 19-10 in favor of 
the Betas. This incident really de­
cided the winners . of the contest. 
In the remaining few minutcs'both 
teams scored a few more points 
and the game ended 22-17, favoring 
th° Be':1*..
Connclly and Ostrosky starred 
for ' .'hi Kanpns; the'; lY*i:nn*r 
was particularly fast and not easy 
to guard. He made a number«;,oi
difficult field goals, white Ostrosky 
played a great defensive game.
Hcrbst led the scoring with four 
goals and three fouls. Todd also 
played a stellar game for the 
Betas.
The lineup follows:
Beta Theta Pi—22 Phi Kappa—1/
Ziegler------------F__________ Dcttc
Hower -------------F___tg____Connelly
Hcrbst —_____C_________ Binder
Sample ------------G_______ Gravine
Todd ---------------G---------- Ostrosky
Substitutions: Bates for Hower,
Ducger for Sample, Hawkins for 
Bates.
Field Goals: Betas—Hcrbst 4,
4, Bates 2, Sample 2. Phi Kappas 
—Connelly, 3; Ostrosky, 2; Loxtcr- 
man.
TWO NEW COLLECTIONS
(Qontiiucd from Page One) 
borough, Van Dyck, Rembrandt, 
Tintoretto, dc Hooch, Lawrence, 
Reynolds, and others.
The exhibition of lithographs • 
from the Carnegie Institute collec­
tion which opened at the Institute 
on Thursday, April 3, will continue 
thr.-.ugh June 1, as will the exhibi­
tion of paintings given by the One 
Hundred Friends of Pittsburgh Art 
to the public schools of Pittsburgh.
TREAT YOURSELF TO THE BEST
Rent a Tuxedo Suit and 
Accessories From Us
ALL SIZES PERFECT FIT
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES
Whittington Dress Suit Co.
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE
Day Phone: Night Phone:
ATLANTIC 9595 LAFAYETTE .1791-11
Improving transmission 'Speeding up servia
Encouraging the long 
distance habit
An interesting example of organization is 
the development of long distance telephone 
business. Men and women of the Bell 
System made this service worthy, and the 
public has recognized this by its greatly in­
creased usage.
The Bell Laboratories improved the quality 
of sound transmission by modifying existing 
apparatus and designing new. Western Elec­
tric manufactured the necessary equipment
of the highest standards. Operating telephone 
companies, working with the American Tele­
phone and Telegraph Company, shortened 
the time for completing calls and reduced 
the rates.
In all a coordinated work, bringing to­
gether many and varied activities, and typical 
of the way in which telephone service is 
constantly being made a better tool for the 
nation’s needs.
BELL SYSTEM
Fi nation-wide system of in ter-conti e ct ing telephone.
