The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 84, Number 17, February 14, 1984.
24-hour Hunt Library becomes real possibility
LAUREN WEISBERG
irtan Staffwriter
Student Senate has passed a resolution 
jnceming the necessity of 24-hour library 
jyice. Presently, Hunt Library is open 
itil 2:00 a.m. on weeknights and until 
lidnight on Friday and Saturday, 
j The resolution, which was introduced by 
¡lator John Pane, stated that “there is no 
cure, comfortable, quiet place in which 
Idividuals or groups can study late into the 
|ght-] “Study sessions often last late into the 
(ght, especially during the weeks preced- 
lg and during final exams.”
¡In addition, the library has also been 
ceiving numerous complaints about the 
ck of service on the third and fourth floors 
|ter 10 p.m. Said CFA freshman Melissa 
imont, “Sometimes music students find iti
fficult to get to the library before 10 to 
ten to their assignments. If they can keep 
e two lowest floors open, then they can
to move to DU
also keep the 4th floor open for those of us 
who must make use of its facilities.”
In response to these complaints, Director 
of Libraries Thomas J. Michalak is consid­
ering several options. He agrees that it is “a 
good idea” to keep the library open 24 hours 
a day from the week before finals until the 
last day of exams. However, he stresses the 
need for increased security that such an 
action would warrant. “We’re talking to 
campus security about the possibility,” said 
Michalak.
An additional problem in trying to 
increase service during these hours is that 
the hiring of an evening supervisor might be 
required.
Another possible change Michalak is con­
templating is extending the hours that stu­
dents can use the 3rd and 4th floor facilities.
Michalak feels that overall, the library 
“has consistently responded to students 
needs in the past.” He considers more 
library hours a very realistic option.More study time in Hunt Library is a definite possibility.
Photo by Bob Fishel
DC president will resign due to housing rates
NEIL J. GREENBLUM
News Editor
(Tom Rieger, president of Student Dormi- 
Council, will formally resign because of
busing rates.
“I cannot afford to go to school and live in 
je dorms,” stated Rieger after evaluationg 
Is current financial situation. “I get lots of 
financial aid, but it still won’t be enough.”
¦ Rieger, a brother of Delta Upsilon, will 
wove into the fraternity house next semes- 
fjr According to Rieger, the total cost of 
li\ mg in the house will be “less than half” of 
Biat he is paying now, living in university 
Busing.
I Rieger has made it clear that his reasons 
purely financial, and have nothing to do 
|th SDC. “I’d like to stay as active as I can,”
added.
A junior in Administration and Manage- 
riTnt Science, Rieger was elected president 
°f SDC in February 1983. He served as a 
d|nr. representative the year and a half 
Preceding his election.
¿¦Rieger has been directly involved in Aux- 
Mpy Service’s commitment to renovate the
Hill dormitories, the opening of Morrison’s 
in Margaret Morrison Plaza, the raising of 
the student dorm allotment rate from $1.00
to $1.50, and the revision of the alcohol 
policy.
Rieger feels the most important issue for
SDC President Tom Rieger
moio uy ixai j. oioriiuium
his successor and the rest of SDC is housing 
rates. When it came to that issue, “I just 
couldn’t get anywhere,” said Rieger.
Housing rates are dependent on the hous­
ing budget, and “the budget is much too 
dependent on its dangerously high debt ser­
vice. The housing office is a slave to its 
debts.”
“Renovations are good, but they cost just 
too much money,” he affirmed.
Although many of his ideas were 
thwarted, Rieger admits, “I had a good 
working relationship with [Director of 
Housing] Tony Martin and [Director of 
Auxiliary Services] Oscar Mayer. We 
haven’t had too many conflicts.”
Martin agrees with Rieger’s analysis of 
their relationship, but is not convinced of 
Rieger’s reason for moving.
“We had a very good relationship. He is 
an excellent student leader and he repres­
ented students well.”
“As for moving, even if the rates had gone 
down, I think Tom would have moved into 
the fraternity.”
Senior Class Club recognized
¦* this issue
ws
Sig raises money......................page 2
chenko will talk........................page 3
tures
°cratic candidates......................page 5
re safety tips.................................page 5
tertainment
World exhibit..........................page 9
^eny plays Pittsburgh...............page 9
rts
s B-ball lose to Bethany .... page 11
tie IUP ..............................page 12
itorial
ng a candidate........................page 16
By TRACY SPOOL
Special to The Tartan
Student Senate now recognizes the Senior 
Class Club.
The Senior Class Club is a club which 
encourages all members of the senior class to 
interact with other members, ignoring indi­
vidual college barriers.
The Senior Class Club was started last 
year by Student Affairs, with last year’s jun-
iors. Dean Brad Walter asked several juniors 
to organize activities for the whole class. 
Becky Sikora, the Senior Class Club Chair­
man, helped arrange some student-faculty 
luncheons and other activities.
This year Sikora and other seniors formed 
a committee and approached Senate for a 
budget. The budget is for various activities 
including the recent hot chocolate-md- 
traying on Flagstaff Hill. The club would
also like to have a party on the Gateway 
Clipper, and a year-end party with faculty.
Most of the club’s events will be just for 
seniors; some will involve the whole school.
The Student Senate also recognizes fresh­
man, sophomore, and junior class clubs. 
Although no funds are appropriated for 
these potential clubs, anyone who would 
like to organize activities for their class can 
get in touch with Sikora or Walter.
Tri-Delts plan to offer $400 local scholarship
By PAULA PATULA
Special to The Tartan
Each year Delta Delta Delta local scholar­
ships are awarded by the campus Tri-Delta 
chapter. All full-time undergraduate 
women are eligible; recipients must also be 
undergraduates at the same school during 
the term of the award (no seniors should
apply.) Applicants will be considered on the 
basis of academic record, extracurricular 
activities, community service, promise 
of service to their chosen field and having 
financial need.
In addition to the $400 chapter award, 
all local scholarship recipients automati­
cally qualify for the $1000 Zoe Gore Per­
rin National Scholarship. Only successful 
candidates will be notified.
Applications are available from the Direc­
tor of Financial Aid, dean of students, or 
Delta Delta Delta Service Projects chairman 
Lynn Smulowitz. Completed applica­
tions must be submitted to Tri-Delta by 
March 1, 1984.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—The Tartan—February 14, 1984
Working full-time in Kiltie and Morewood
Pitt students are filling Dining Service jobs left vacant by CMU work-stn^
By AMY MILLER
Tartan Staffwriter
According to University Dining Services 
director Bob Choate, University of Pitts­
burgh students are not taking Dining Ser­
vice jobs that could be occupied by CMU 
work-study students.
The Pitt workers, two of them full-time 
students, are occupying time slots that are 
difficult to fill with CMU students.
One pot station and dishroom worker 
works eight-hour shifts during the day, 
when CMU students have classes. The two 
full-ume students have sanitation jobs, 
which are not popular positions among 
work-study students.
Openings have been and are currently 
posted with no response. Of the other three 
Pitt students, one is a full-time manager at 
Morewood Gardens and another works 10 
a.m.-5 p.m. in Kiltie Cafe. The remaining 
Pitt employee is a student who when hired 
by UDS was a CMU student. He later trans-
Photo by Dan Simon- i
According to Bob Choate, UDS director, there are job openings in Dining Service.
ferred to Pitt as a part-time student.
Choate noted that there were quite a k 
positions open in the first few weeks of th, 
1983 fall semester, but they filled upquic]^, 
By November the only jobs left were eit 
unpopular or difficult to schedule aroui 
classes.
“We have tripled our use of work-stm 
over the last two years, and we are comi 
ted and will continue to be committed to it 
commented Choate.
Manager Tom Majewski, who all 
worked in Kiltie while a student at Pii 
stated that there have always been sevei 
Pitt students employed by UDS. “Diffei 
university schedules are advantageous (< 
UDS operation because the diversity of 
operation requires a diverse work force."
“For instance, during finals and a 
days before and after holidays, many CMI 
students are unavailable for work, and Pii 
students help to fill the gap, 
Majewski.
note
Kappa Sigma aids WQED telethon and helps raise $9001
By LISA BERUL
Tartan Staffwriter
17 members of Kappa Sigma, including 
brothers, little sisters, and pledges partci- 
pated in the WQED telethon held February
5 from 8-11:30 pm. The fraternity assisted by 
answering phones during the commercials.
The telethon lasted 3 days, the fraternity 
working on it for one of those days. The 
event raised almost $9000 and will be held 
again on a 3 week long run. Kappa Sig has 
volunteered to help out again on February 
28th and can be seen on television taking 
donations.
Kappa Sig has set a goal of five more 
fundraisers for this semester, an extraordi­
narily large number in comparison to most. 
They plan on distributing their generosity 
to different organizations in the city. Presi­
dent Mike Osgood is hoping to find a spon­
sor from Alcoholics Anonymous who is
willing to give a lecture in Skibo about t 
general misuses of alcohol and its effectsij 
order to make the whole campus bettej 
aware.
The fraternity will also take a group J 
retarded children to a Pirates game, lateij 
the season.
Bailey first woman appointed to Standard Oil Board of Directors
Elizabeth E. Bailey, dean of the Graduate Directors in January.
School of Industrial Administration,
became the first woman appointee to the Bailey joins a 14-member board that over- 
Sohio (Standard Oil of Ohio) Board of sees the company’s long-range and strategic
plans, elects all officers and approves execu­
tives and all major financial transactions. 
Sohio’s 1983 revenues totalled $12 billion. 
Sohio is a domestic oil company with all
phases of its petroleum business within tl 
United States, and also engages in 
and coal mining and manufacture of ce 
industrial products.Rape PreventionHow not to be a victim
Thursday, February 16, 7:30 pm. Donner Lounge
Molly Knox and Carmen Anderson from 
Pittsburgh against rape
Frances Russ, Investigator CMU Campus Police
Wednesday, February 22, 7:30 pm Mudge Lounge
Dave McNutt, officer of Squirrel Hill Police Station #6
Sponsored by Student Senate and Office of Student Acii\if>es

---------------------------------------------------

February 14, 1984—The Tartan—Page 3
Shevchenko to speak on Kremlin at AB Lecture
By RIC MEDROW
Tartar1 Editor in Chief 
The highest ranking .Soviet official ever to 
defect to the West, Ambassador Arkady Shev­
chenko, will speak at an AB Lecture tom- 
I morrow at 8:00 p.m. in Skibo Ballroom.
ARKADY SHEVCHENKO
According to President Reagan, Shev­
chenko s defection “could be the biggest and 
most important breakthrough for us since 
World War II. Shevchenko is probably fully 
informed of Russia’s strategy and its world­
wide goals.” Reagan said that in 1978.
Shevchenko is still briefing American 
intelligence today, which could prove inval­
uable in the wake of the recent death of 
Soviet President Yuri Andropov.
The former Soviet Ambassador and 
Under Secretary General of the United 
Nations will speak on: Soviet Sub­
version and Espionage; A Kremlin view of 
the White House; SALT/START: Myth vs. 
Reality; East vs. West: Trade, Technology, 
Disinformation; and the Succession of 
Power in Moscow.
Shevchenko once told a crowd, “They 
need you, for how,” and that the arms buildup 
would continue and be used for “intimida­
tion, and to penetrate and expand the zone
emoriai service held for Tuma
A memorial service for David T. Tuma 
Iwas held in the Wherrett Room last 
¡Wednesday.
Tuma, a professor of Electrical and Com- 
Iputer Engineering (ECE), died January 18 
as the result of an automobile accident. He 
vas 44 yers old.
The service featured comments and 
Remembrances by Stephen W. Director, 
lead of ECE; President Richard Cyert; 
James Hoburg, associate professor of ECE; 
Paul Clifford, research scientist, Robotics 
¡Institute; John L. Anderson, head of Chemi- 
al Engineering and director of Biomedical 
Engineering; Akram Midani, dean of CFA; 
Jrovost Angel Jordan; and Stanley Charap, 
Associate head and professor of ECE.
Midani said that Tuma grew up in 
Lebanon at a time when “borders were only 
imaginary and people from all sides con­
ducted their lives with mutual compassion. 
This heritage of a proud and loving Leba­
nese remained the most distinctive trait in 
David.”
Tuma came to CMU as an assistant pro­
fessor in 1971. He had received his doctorate 
in 1966 from the University of California, 
Berkeley.
Tuma received the Camegie-Mellon Uni­
versity Ryan Award for Meritorious Teach­
ing in 1976.
Tuma’s research in electrical engineering 
dealt with understanding the physics of cir­
cuit breaker arcs in plasma electronics.
H&SS SOPHOMORES interested in majoring in TECHNICAL WRITING, PROFESSIONAL 
WRITING, CREATIVE WRITING, LITERATURE, MANAGERIAL ECONOMICS, ECONOMICS, 
or PHILOSOPHY:
Come meet and listen to faculty and current majors talk about ^ 
these options — requirements, variety of options, opportunities 
before and after graduation, etc.
WHERE AND WHEN .
ENGLISH (Technical Writing, Professional Writing, Creative 
Writing, Literature )
Tuesday,
/ February 14
4:30 p.m.
Baker Hall 245
ECONOMICS (Managerial Econonics & Economics)
Wednesday,
February 15 
4:30 p.m.
MBA Lounge 
1st FI. GSIA
PHILOSOPHY
Thursday, 
February 16, 
4:30 p.m. 
Adamson Wing
Sponsored by the H&SS Dean's Office 
and the Academic Advisory Center
of influence of the Soviet Union.”
Before defecting to the United States, 
Shevchenko was considered by many, 
including Reagan, as the successor to For­
eign Minister Gromyko. He was also the 
highest paid official living outside the 
Soviet Union and was possibly the richest 
man in Russia.
According to a Des Moines Register 
report, Shevchenko has been “making the
scene at discos, and at resorts in the Carrib- 
bean and Pennsylvania’s Pocono Moun­
tains under a number of aliases.”
Also, professional escort Judy Chavez has 
claimed that Shevchenko paid her more 
than $35,000 to accompany him.
Tickets for the lecture are being sold today 
and tommorrow at Skibo information desk 
from 9 am-5 pm for $1.00
Photo by Bob Fishel
Beta Theta Pi used this beer can to draw attention to their $2-a-head fundraiser, held for 
March of Dimes this past Saturday.
FINANCIAL AID APPLICANTS 
1984-85
Financial Aid Applications for the 1984-85 Academic Year are 
now available for pick-up in the Financial Aid Office, 216 
Warner Hall. Please insure that you apply before May 1, 1984, 
unless otherwise specified by your particular state grant 
agency. Please note the following specific state grant deadlines:
Residents of:
Connecticut - February 1, 1984* 
April 15, 1984**
Delaware - April 30, 1984
Washington, D.C. - June 15, 1984
Maryland - March 1, 1984
Massachusetts - March 1, 1984
*- non-renewals **- renewals
New Jersey - October 1, 1984 
Ohio - August 19, 1984
Pennsylvania- May 1, 1984 
Rhode Island- March 1, 1984 
Vermont - March 2, 1984 
West Virginia - March 1, 1984
CORPORATION
America’s newest and fastest-growing nation­wide corporation invites you to earn next year’s tui­tion before June.If you are energetic, outgoing, ambitious, and 
you enjoy meeting new people, we may just have 
the opportunity you’ve always wanted.
Work part-time or full-time.Set your own hours.
We need Local Representatives and Area Coordinators.
For continuing students, this expands into a highly-lucrative summer position, which flexes 
back in the fall to fit your academic schedule.
Many permanent positions are available nation­wide, as well.
This is a rare and unique ground-floor opportuni­ty which probably will not repeat, once the 
necessary personnel have been acquired.
To apply, send a self-addressed, stamped, business-size envelope. Application form and in­formation will reach you by return mail.
Quest ron Corporation 
Suite 204 2012 Grove Avenue 
Richmond, VA 23220

---------------------------------------------------

A
FROMTHEKREMLIN
Ambassador Shevchenko 
was closely associated with 
Brezhnev, Krushchev, and 
Andropov.
!0 \o Piv.)lO' í
His insight on the future 
leader of the Soviet Union 
will be invaluable.
AB Lectures presents
ARKADY SHEVCHENKO
Former Soviet Ambassador and 
Under Secretary General, United Nations
The hiahest ranking Soviet official 
to defect to the West111
11111
Wedv February 15 8:0QpmSciw®aIIrMn
funded by activities fée

---------------------------------------------------

Features
Democratic Presidential Candidates
The eight candidates present their stances on varying issues of importance
The following are a series of articles 
designed to present each candidate’s view 
and/or stance on major issues and concerns. 
They will conclude next week.
J. GLENN
By BILL GARRISON
Tartan Staffwriter
Senator John Glenn of Ohio, a Demo­
cratic Presidential candidate, will run on a 
platform of increased federal domestic 
spending and a major 5-point plan to com­
bat increased nuclear arms proliferation. 
According to the Assistant Director of Issues 
in Washington, Robert Hill, Glenn feels 
that President Reagan has failed the Ameri­
can people by not living up to the promises 
he made in 1980. On the crucial issues, here 
is where Glenn stands for 1984.
Defense — In contrast to Mondale’s call 
for a 4-5% real increase in military spending, 
and President Reagan’s call for an 8-10% real 
increase, Glenn intends to initiate a 5-6% 
real increase in defense spending, which he 
feels will be adequate as well as economical.
With this increase, he intends to cut out 
such military programs as the MX missile, 
the Bradley Fighting Vehicle, and the Rapid 
Deployment Force, all of which Glenn con­
siders expensive, unnecessary and wasteful.
Glenn intends to initiate a “gradual” 
elimination of the ever-increasing nuclear 
arms race. He will implement a bi-lateral 
nuclear freeze program and will propose a
5-point plan which will consist of: 1) Imple­
menting a freeze on the production and 
deployment of nuclear arms by the U.S.S.R. 
as well as the U.S. 2) Reduction of nuclear 
¡weapons already under construction. 3) 
¡Stopping the world-wide proliferation of 
[nuclear weapons technology. 4) Encourag­
ing the invlovement of other nuclear weap­
on states, such as England and India into 
1 the arms control process at the earliest possi­
ble time in order to achieve stability among 
nations and 5} A renewed commitment in 
negotiations on the reduction of conven­
tional weapons in arms transfer between 
nations.
Foreign Policy — Glenn feels that Ameri­
cans troops in troublesome middle-eastern 
countries serve only to be a “lightning” rod 
or vent for the anger of the Jewish and Mos­
lem people. He seeks to combine U.S. troops 
with other multi-national peace-keeping 
forces, in hope that the “spotlight” will be 
taken off of them, consequently reducing 
the threat of direct retalliation of Jews and 
Moslems on these forces.
Education — On the college level, Glenn
will call for a 1.5 billion increase in the 
federally subsidized Pell Grant program. He 
states that there will be no more cuts in 
Federal Student Loan programs or Direct 
Student loan programs. In elementary and 
secondary education, Glenn is presently at 
work on a program called SAVE (Student 
Aide Volunteer Education). This program 
will enable a college bound high school 
student to pay for his education while still in 
school, by performing civil and community 
services in his hometown. He also intends to 
initiate a program entitled the “National 
Program for Elementary and Secondary 
Education”, in which he hopes to: 1. Raise 
SAT scores 2. Improve international assess­
ments 3. Reward teacher excellence 4. 
Reward academic excellence 5. Reduce dro­
pout by 50% and 6. Allow for financial assist­
ance ... to name a few.
Economy — Glenn feels that if the 
national deficit is not attacked immediately, 
America will within the next four years fall 
into a depression. Along with less defense 
spending, Glenn’s major proposal for the 
economy will be a 10% surtax on all per­
sonal and corporate incomes. A surtax is not 
a tax on how much one makes, but rather a 
tax on how much one is taxed. For instance, 
if one is taxed $1000, the 10% surtax will be 
levied on that $1000.
This, Glenn claims, will save the U.S. 81 
billion dollars a year. The added revenue 
would go to such vital social programs as 
Social Security and MediCare. This surtax, 
in comparison with President Reagan’s pro­
jected $200 billion a year budget increase, is 
aimed at not only lowering the national 
deficit, but also in making the federal 
government more proficient in dealing with 
waste and fraud.
Abortion — On the controversial Abor­
tion issKe, Glenn adopts a pro-choice policy 
and stands in support of the 1973 Roe vs. 
Wade Supreme Court ruling legalizing 
abortion.
A. CRANSTON
By DAVID R. TUCKER
Tartan Staffivriter
Senator Alan Cranston’s (D-CA) desire for 
the democratic Presidential nomination 
stems largely from his concern over foreign 
policy. His number one priority is a bilat­
eral nuclear freeze, which he would imple­
ment by declaring a 30-60 day moratorium 
on the testing and deployment of nuclear 
weapons as a sign of good faith to the Soviet 
Union. He would then invite the USSR to 
continued on page 6
ampus Police require help
The Campus Police are responsible for 
e safety and security of the University com- 
unuY- This is a task which we cannot 
ccomplish alone. We need the assistance 
nd cooperation of every student, faculty 
nd staff member. As a resident of the Uni- 
ersity, you have a special relationship with 
e institution. We encourage you to join us 
n our efforts to provide a safe and secure 
cademic environment.
The following suggestions are offered for 
°ur safety and well being. Your coopera- 
i°n will be beneficial to you and the 
diversity.
Personal Security Recommendations
Piotect your room or apartment. Lock 
°Ul ^°°r at all times, even if you are only 
0lr>g to the bathroom or into the room next 
¦°or. A surprising number of thefts from 
j)rrn r(K)rT>s are accomplished while the res- 
ent ls on the same floor, but lias just 
epped out for “one minute.” The risk is 
! ^emember what we said in our last 
u It only takes approximately eight
seconds for a valuable to disappear.
• Lode your door all the time, even before 
you take a quick snocrae.
• Do not prop open outside building 
doors that are suppose to be locked. These 
doors are locked for your safety and protec­
tion. This is a well neglected area at CMU, 
and is surely an invitation to unauthorized 
persons.
• Do not loan your keys to anyone, even a 
classmate or friend. They may not be as 
careful with them as you are and may lose 
them or misplace them, just long enough 
for the wrong person to gain possession.
• Do not leave your keys lying around in 
public places, or in your coat or jacket 
pocket when you’re not wearing it.
• Carry your car keys on a separate ring 
from your dorm keys and other keys.
• Do not put your name and address on your 
key ring. It is as easy to use the keys to 
steal as it is to return them.
Protect Your Property
continued on page 6
photo by Eric Targan
Richard Zappone, a noted economist, spoke last Thursday on how to spot a company in 
financial trouble.
Stocks purchased by group
Last week, the Investment Group heard 
proposals for the purchase of stock in two 
companies, Universal Health Services and 
Convergent Technologies. Universal 
Health, after only four years of operations, 
has become one of the largest hospital man­
agement companies in the United States. 
With the recent acquisition of Qualicare 
Inc., a hospital management company, and 
the opening of a new psychiatric hospital on 
November 4, Universal now owns and oper­
ates 29 hospitals in the sun belt and the west. 
Since the Qualicare acquisition, Universal 
Health has experienced growing pains due 
to the high capital costs of the debt to 
acquire the company, and the low occu­
pancy levels due to the recent high unem­
ployment conditions in the U.S.
The Group felt that these conditions were 
a result erf the recession, but that Universal 
Health should be back on track in the com­
ing months. Substantial labor cost savings 
have already been implemented. The Group 
believed that hospital management com­
pany stock prices have been beaten down
because of Medicare and Medicade ceiling 
payments and low occupancy' rates. With 
the recovery underway and strict cost con­
trols initiated, 100 shares of Universal 
Health were purchased at 12*4 points.
Convergent Technologies, however, is a 
leading supplier of 16 and 32-bit 
microprocessor-based computer systems. 
These systems offer the power of a small 
mainframe computer and are sold primarily 
to original equipment manufacturers. Cur­
rently, Burroughs Corp. and NCR Corp. 
account for 60% of Convergent’s dependence 
on Burroughs and NCR. Convergent Tech­
nologies’ excellent and innovative manage­
ment, coupled with purchase agreements 
totaling more than 1 billion dollars over the 
next two years, should accelerate sales and 
earnings growth.
The Group concluded, however, that the 
recent decline in the high technology stocks 
has not yet bottomed out, and any decision 
to purchase Convergent Technology stock 
should wait a few weeks.
"CMU needs something more
ww
By W. J. HANSEN
Special to the Tartan
Why the ITC? Why isn’t it enough for 
everyone to buy their own computer?
A number erf colleges have done just that, 
but CMU needs something more. Everyone 
needs to be able to communicate via mail, 
files, and other electronic means. This week 
I want to talk about the ITC approach to 
communication, a shared file system.
In time-sharing systems, usch as the 
TOPS system now at CMU, each document is 
stored in a “file” on the computer you are 
connected to. It is more difficult to gain 
access to it from other computers. You may 
yourself have worked to transfer a file using 
Kermit, DECnet, or mail. There must be an 
easier way.
With the ITC’s Vice/Virtue system, files
are still the key unit of storage, but you will 
be insulated from concern with their prec ise 
physical location.
Suppose you write a report for an English 
course on your dorm room computer late 
Wednesday night and have an inspiration 
Thursday, just before class. You retreat to a 
workstation in the nearby terminal room 
and update the report.
When you finished last night, you stored 
the report on the network. This means it 
was sent over the wires in your dormitory to 
your local “cluster server.” 
the file again in the terminal room, the 
workstation there sends a request to its own 
local cluster server. The two cluster servers 
talk to each other and the terminal room 
workstation gets a copy of the file from the 
continued on page 6

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—The Tartan—February 14, 1984
Candidates view defense, foreign policy, & budget
continued from page 5
negotiate the freeze, and would resume weap­
ons production if the Kremlin refused to 
bargain.
He is also “outraged” by the Reagan 
administration’s intervention in Grenada, 
as well as the government’s support of the 
ruling military regime in El Salvador and its 
current hostile attitude towards Nicaragua. 
The solution, according to Cranston, is the
Cooperation 
protects you
continued from page 5
• Participate in Operation Identification 
by engraving your social security number 
on your valuables. Engravers are located at 
the Campus Police Office. If your valuable 
is too large to bring to the office give us a call 
at x2323 and arrangements will be made.
• Personal property such as purses, brief­
cases, calculators, etc., should never be left 
unattended. Take such items with you if 
you are leaving the office, classroom, or 
dorm room.
• You are encouraged to open a savings or 
checking account rather than allow large 
sums of money to accumulate in your room. 
If you have a checking account, always re­
member rhe number of the last check writ­
ten. Many times the theft of a single check 
has gone undetected until a bank statement 
discloses a forgery.
Working together, we can make life 
tough for the criminal; he she may even 
decide to take their business elsewhere.
The Campus Police Department is at 
your service twenty-four hours a day at 
extension 2323.
Condadora group’s proposal for peace in 
Latin America, submitted by Mexico, Vene­
zuela, Columbia, and Panama. The Conda­
dora proposal consists of four key points: 1. 
Curtailing military activity in Latin Amer­
ica, consisting of recalling the American 
fleet from off the coast of Nicaragua, curtail­
ing maneuvers in Honduras, and cutting 
the funding for the “covert war” against 
Nicaragua 2. A package of development aid 
and debt restructuring for poorer Latin 
American countries 3. Support of secure, 
free election in El Salvador, Guatemala, and 
Nicaragua, and 4. Talks between regional 
rivals, including those aimed at improving 
the relations between Cuba and the Conda­
dora countries themselves.
Cranston decribes himself as “pro-Israel,” 
despite his vote against a Senate resolution 
disapproving of the AW ACS sale to Saudi 
Arabia. He supports the Camp David 
accords, and would remove the Marines 
from Lebanon.
Although Cranston is quite liberal on for­
eign policy and cultural issues (he favors the 
availability of abortion and supports federal 
funding for abortions, for example), he is 
more conservative cm economic issues, 
though not a Supply Sider by any measure. 
He has no bias against big business per se, 
and was successful at establishing his own 
real estate brokerage firm. He has supported 
bailout measures for Lockheed Corp. and 
Chrysler Corp., and has been known to 
listen to the concerns of many California 
businesses, from farmers to Silicon Valley 
companies.
Although he does not say he will balance 
the budget, he plans to decrease deficits by 
eliminating government subsidies of causes 
he feels do not need government help, such 
as the tobacco industry, and wants to charge 
for services such as coast guard rescues. He
will also increase personal income taxes, 
and plans to restructure the corporate 
income tax system industry by industry 
while increasing corporate income tax 
revenues. He feels lower deficits will control 
inflation while allowing him to reduce 
interest rates, and wants the Chairman of the 
Federal Reserve to be coterminous with the 
Presidency.
Whether or not his plan will succeed is 
doubtful in view of some of the programs he 
proposes to fight unemployment, such as 
government job programs and retraining 
programs, as well as a reversal of the Reagan 
administration’s severe cutbacks in educa­
tion, including increased funding for the 
Government Student Loan program, 
increased availability of work-study pro­
grams, and more money for graduate and 
professional education. In addition, he pro­
poses to provide financial aid and simul­
taneously encourage graduating students to 
enter teaching positions, by loaning money 
to students who plan to teach in scientific 
and mathematical fields.
Sen. Cranston’s strategy for obtaining the 
Democratic nomination is to defeat the 
“second tier” of unknown dark horses such 
as Hollings and Hart with a strong showing 
in both Iowa and New Hampshire later this 
month, then to challenge either Mondale or 
Glenn, with the hope that only one will be 
left in the race by mid-March. The greatest 
weakness of this plan, according to the 
National Review, is that it usually works for 
newcomers to federal politics (Jimmy Car­
ter, for example), and is not as effective for 
those who .have congressional experience.
R. ASKEW
By MICHAEL HOFF
Tartan Staffwriter
Reuben Askew, the governor of Florida, is
a Democratic candidate for president. Those 
of you who have heard of Askew are proba- 
bly unaware of his stands on campaign 
issues. One major reason for this is that 
Askew refuses to accept any money from
* political action committees. He is the first 
candidate to do so.
National Debt One of the most pressing 
issues in the campaign is the staggering 
national debt. Askew proposes a repeal of
Server passes
information on
continued from page 5
dormitory cluster server.
The process begins when you give the 
name of the file to the terminal room work­
station and it passes it on to its local cluster 
server. The name is hierarchia. It has com­
ponents which refer to increasingly smaller 
collections of files. An upper element in the 
name of your report file identifies it as being 
in your personal collection; so the cluster 
server looks in its table that describes where 
the files are for each user. It observes that 
your files have their home residence on your 
dorm server and tells the terminal room 
workstation.
Actual access to the file is done by the 
workstation. It sends a message over the net­
work to the dorm server and the dorm server 
sends back the entire file, to be kept on the 
workstation disk while you work on it, 
When you are done, the file is returned to its | 
normal residence, your dorm server.
Throughout this process, you have only 
referred to the file by its name, just as you| 
would with time-sharing today.
&t. Valentine's Day
Candlelight Dinner
We'd love to have you join m
at .
kiltie cofe
Tuesday February 14 
430-700pm
uds
university
dining
service
LEGAL BODY STIMULANTS
FROM
‘THE BEST STIMULANT SPECIALIST
DESCRIPTIONQTYPRICE100BLACK DEXTROPHIN CAPSULES$ 7 95250BLACK DEXTROPHIN CAPSULES14.95100YELLOW DEXTROPHIN CAPSULES7.95250YELLOW DEXTROPHIN CAPSULES14 95100BLUE I CLEAR CAPSULES7 95250BLUE & CLEAR CAPSULES14 95100GREEN & CLEAR CAPSULES7 95250GREEN & CLEAR CAPSULES14 95100PINK & WHITE 357 MAGNUM TABLETS7 95250PINK & WHITE 357 MAGNUM TABLETS14 95100BLACK 20/20 TABLET7 95250BLACK 20/20 TABLET14 95100SPECKLED 20/20 TABLET7 95
250SPECKLED 20/20 TABLET14 95
1000 CAPSULES OR TABLETS OF ANY KINO AVAILABLE FOR $39 00 TOTAL
SHIPPING & HANDLING ADD 2 00 
TOTAL PAYMENT ____________
ADDRESS,
CITY_______STATEZIP
‘SAME DAV SHIPPING*
C.O.O. ORDERS ONLY CALL TOLL FREE 24 HRS/DAY 1 -800*245-3621
PA. HAWAII. A ALASKA RESIDENTS CALL 1 -41 2-443-4450
OR WRITE TOOAY:
BEST PHARMACAL 
P O. Sox 408 
Gibsonia. PA 15044 
SHIPPING UPS US MAIL
WARNING: Not tor sale to minors Void where prohibited by law Individuals with high
pressure heart disease diabetes or thyroid disease use only as directed by physicianNot In'« w -------------------------------7 I--- - - . pg
use by pregnant women Resale or repackaging of this product without proper license coura 
in violation of state and federal laws These products are not a copy of any controlled su
PAYMENT Money Order Certified Check. C O D s Personal Check (same day shipping does not apply to personal checks!
TRY US AND FIND OUT WHY WE ARE THE 
BEST PHARMACAL

---------------------------------------------------

February 14, 1984—The Tartan—Page 7
last year’s 10% tax cut. This would save an 
estimated $35 billion a year. Another move 
to cut the deficit would be to put a freeze on 
military budget increases. This would save 
$39.6 billion by eliminating President Rea­
gan’s proposed 13% increase in the military 
budget.
Defense. Although he favors a cut in mil­
itary spending increases, Askew is opposed 
to a cut in the military budget itself. He feels 
that a restructuring of the apportionment of 
I military funds. For example, Askew feels 
1 that too much money is being spent on 
I strategic nuclear arms and not enough on
S conventional forces. This would be done in 
part by scrapping the MX missile and the 
B-l bomber programs. This loss would be 
I made up for by upgrading the Minuteman 
I missiles and arming B-52’s with cruise mis- 
I siles. Askew is opposed to the neutron 
I bomb.
Foreign Policy. U.S. foreign policy has 
I also been the topic of criticism lately, mainly 
I because of Lebanon. Askew wants to pull 
1 the U.S. Marines and other allied forces out 
I of that country and replace them with a 
U.N. peacekeeping force of nonallied 
[ nations. Thus, peace could be more easily 
; attained without the presence of a military 
force supportive of the present Lebanese 
administration. Also in the Middle East,
| Askew favors continued support of Israel 
because he sees Israel as one of America’s 
strongest allies.
Askew takes a very firm and unfriendly 
stand when it comes to the Soviet Union. He 
feels the Soviets to be hypocritical in their 
peace propaganda, and believes that they are 
trying to break the western alliance.
In relation to nations in South and Cen­
tral America, Askew feels that the United 
States often deals with these nations as a
collective whole instead of on a one to one 
basis as is done with Europe. He believes 
that in order to strengthen relations with 
those nations, we must deal with them*on a 
more personal level. Askew does not take 
such a friendly attitude toward Cuba. He 
opposes any diplomatic ties with Castro’s 
Cuba because of Castro’s flagrant anti- 
American rhetoric and support of revolu­
tion in South and Central America. On the 
home-front we find Askew’s strongest qual­
ity. A former trade negotiator for the Carter 
administration, Askew is well aware of the 
problems with American import and export 
laws, but opposes any form of protection­
ism. He feels that protectionism would only 
hurt American labor in the longrun.
Abortion. The delicate issue of abortion is 
an issue that Askew is not afraid to confront. 
He feels that the constitution does not ade­
quately define the right to or illegality of 
abortion, and proposes an act of Congress to 
set a national standard. Askew is against 
abortion, but is opposed to a total ban. This 
is because of special cases such as rape or a 
risk to the mother’s life.
J. JACKSON
By KEVIN FEDARKO
Tartan Staffwriter
How do you deal with a potential adver­
sary who you never really took seriously 
(and pretty much wrote off as a loss) when 
he shows up at your doorstep one morning 
with a TV crew and hands you something 
important which you’ve been wanting for 
quite some time? Simple. You swallow your 
surprise, smile at their cameras, and shake 
his hand in thanks.
That’s exactly what the president, the 
Democratic nominees, and the rest of Amer­
ica found themselves doing several weeks 
ago, when Reverend Jesse Jackson returned
from Syria with captured Navy Lieutenant 
Robert Goodman. They were congratulat­
ing him, and for the first time taking the 
Democratiq Baptist minister seriously.
For a presidential candidate with no 
White House experience, limited diplo­
matic background, and a reputation for a 
revivalist approach to politics, Jackson 
hasn’t exactly given his campaign the credi­
bility one normally associates with front- 
runner nominees. Nevertheless, a great 
many people have been increasingly com­
pelled to take notice of this vivacious candi­
date. While few would go so far as to say that 
Jackson stands a good chance of walking 
away with the Democratic nomination, 
most analysts agree he is definitely a force to 
be reckoned with.
Last month in New Hampshire, Jackson 
again got the opportunity to bask in the 
political spotlight — along with the seven 
other democratic nominees — in the nation­
ally televised Democratic debate. Even 
though he did not steal the show, the debate 
and the Goodman episode have provided 
him with enough publicity to guarantee 
that he will not be lost aiid forgoWeVi in the 
pack. Popularity rankings now place Jack­
son at fourth, behind Mondale, Glenn, and 
Hart. This means that, at the very least, he 
will have some effect on shaping the party 
platform at the Democratic Convention. As 
Stanford political scientist Seymour Martin 
Lipset put it, “Whoever the nominee is will 
probably have to make Jackson some 
promises.”
With some economic recovery underway 
now and likely to continue through the 
November elections, the Democrats are 
going to be forced to turn away from their 
traditional domestic policy attacks and look 
towards foreign policy as a campaign issue.
new forces
This is one area where Jackson has not 
made himself entirely clear. His one new 
proposal concerns defense spending foe 
Europe and Japan. He maintains that 40% 
of the defense budget goes to Europe and 
Japan, who are now capable of taking up 
some of that burden themselves. This is a 
potential source of those dollars which he is 
going to need in order to narrow' the enor­
mous budget deficit of the Reagan 
administration.
But in other aspects of foreign policy 
Jackson remains ambiguous, avoiding con­
crete issues such as US-Soviet relations and 
the Central American situation with flam­
boyant statements alluding to “progress 
through presidential initiative.” During the 
debate he asserted that “leaders must first 
have vision. For without vision people per­
ish, because if you deal with the text out of 
context you have pretext. Leadership must 
clearly see the big picture.”
Eloquence aside, Jackson is equally 
unclear when it comes to his schemes for 
domestic improvement. These are schemes 
which again sound terrific, particularly 
against the backdrop of Reaganomic favor­
itism towards the rich. “The blacks, the His- 
panics, the Asians, the locked-out must be 
empowered and not just embellished.”
Clearly, if Jackson wants to present a 
serious challenge to any of the current front- 
runners in the Democratic Party, he will 
need to consolidate his ambitious proposals 
into some practical concrete plans. The 
sheer efficiency of the Mondale-Glenn 
media blitz is a tough act to follow. Anyone 
who chooses to write Jackson as a loss now 
could very well find himself in the same 
position as the president, shaking his hand 
and trying to hide the surprise and emba- 
rassment in November.
A skew and Jackson should be two
continued from page 6

---------------------------------------------------

Margaret Morrison Plaza Co-op Store 
Is Celebrating its 
First Anniversary
Enter our Daily Drawing for the folbwing prizes
— Tuesday: One case (24) cans of pop
— Wednesday: One box (24) candy bars of your choice
— Thursday: One free lunch--sandwich, can of pop, & fruit
— Friday: Four 2 liter bottles of pop
— Saturday: One box (160) pieces of bubble gum
— Sunday: four quarts of ice cream
Co op moixa Co op moixa Co'op moixa G>op moixa
j.o ANNiVERSARy 1 ST AlMINliVERSARy 1 ST AlNINliVERSARy
•Try our New “Italian Hoagie” and a can of pop
— regularly $3.12 special only $2.09
•Try our new selections of ICE CREAM 
Sherbets, toppings, & other novelties
•We also carry a new selection of Nabisco Products
XV* $ otfg v^ce V'oi
Phone orders for sandwiches accepted up to 11:00 a.m., for orders to be picked up 
between 11:00 a.m. and 1:30 p.m. — x8877.
To raooax maxua oWa CAMpus CoMMUNhy iex 'ad houRS lxav
— Monday thru Friday 9:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m.
— Saturday 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
— Sunday 11:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment.
Arctic life depicted at Museum exhibit
Photo by John Stilwell
The Inuit fisherman capturing a fish through the ice is but one of the many life-like displays 
shown in the Polar World exhibit at Carnegie Museum.
By LESLIE McILROY
Tartan Staffwriter
You may think it’s cold in Pittsburgh, but 
this is balmy compared to the icy tempera­
tures endured by the Inuits of the Central 
Canadian Arctic.
This snowbound culture has been mag­
nificently traced and presented through the 
work of George W. Wykoff Jr. and the Car­
negie Museum of Natural History to form 
Carnegie Institute’s newest exhibit, Polar 
World; Wykoff Hall of Arctic Life.
The hall’s major theme is diat of human 
adaptation over centuries to both environ­
mental and cultural forces. The history of 
the Inuit civilization illustrates this concept 
beautifully. From the beginning (4,500 years 
ago) to the end (present day) the hall is a 
path of life-like displays, earthy artifacts, 
handcrafted art, and fascinating informa­
tion. At the immediate entrance you are con­
fronted with a large, not-so-friendly polar 
bear. You can tell this guy didn’t spend his 
time catching marshmallows at the zoo! 
Further on is a diorama depicting an 
Inuit hunting at the breathing hole of an 
unsuspecting seal. This model is craftedPat Metheny gives his all in concert
cleverly of icy-looking lucite, allowing the 
viewer to get a perspective on both the hun­
ter and the prey. This is just, one of the 
realistic and ingeniously designed displays.
The show also offers a film documenting 
one Inuit’s life and a video that explains the 
curious art of igloo building. Lastly, there is 
a tribute to Inuit art; a comer packed with 
the beautiful ivory and soapstone carvings 
of the Eskimo culture.
Wykoff, the man who envisioned this Arc­
tic treasure, died before he had the chance to 
see the final results of his labor. But, I am 
sure that the enjoyment and knowledge we 
get from just walking through this unique 
glimpse of Arctic life would make Wykoff 
feel that his work and dreams fulfilled their 
purpose. Needless to say, the next chance 
you get or the next time you hear yourself 
complaining about the cold Pittsburgh win­
ter, point yourself in the direction of 
Wykoff’s Polar World at Carnegie Institute 
and see if you can’t warm up to the frosty 
world of the Arctic. The museum’s hours 
are Tues - Sat, 10-5; Sundays, Free to students, 
1-5. The museum is closed on Monday.
By NEVILLE KRAMER
Special to The Tartan 
If the new Pat Metheny Group album is 
anything like their concert at the Carnegie 
Music Hall last Thursday, it should be 
splendid. The group’s second visit to Pitts­
burgh in less than a year fea­
tured all the new material for 
their forthcoming album, and it 
proved that the band is brighter 
I and more vibrant than ever.
The freshness of Metheny’s sound relies 
on a blend of the familiar and the original
— barking guitar and sliding synthesizer 
| chords on top of a slow, insistent rhythm in 
I “Are You Going With Me?” or a swinging 
Latin beat behind classical piano and folk 
guitar in some of the newer pieces. These 
I new songs were the highlight of a full even­
ing’s diverse fare. It was, apparently, the end 
of a long road trip for the band, and they had 
Icome to what Metheny called “the best hall
in the country” for the new album’s dress 
rehearsal. Too often when rock acts intro­
duce new numbers, they are muddied by 
arena echoes and uneasy presentation. 
Metheney’s band was tight and in control of 
every new song they played.
After the traditional “Phase Dance,” 
which was fine but has perhaps gone a bit 
soft over the years, and a nicely melancholy 
“Travels,” the group lit into the first of 
many new works, all untitled. It demon­
strated clearly that the band is a group effort, 
not just “The Pat Metheny Show.” Lyle 
Mays, who later received a large ovation in 
his own right, conducted the piece and 
added tuned percussion to his several key­
boards. Newest group member Paul Wer- 
tico was splendid on drums in the heavier 
Latin and rock beats, but his hard brush- 
work and steady cymbals on the softer tunes 
were tremendously annoying. (Subtlety, my 
boy!) Steve Rodby, though not a standout,
kept us bopping along to his acoustic bass. 
Multi-instrumentalist and vocalist Pedro 
Aznar, the Argentine boy wonder, was much 
appreciated by the nearly full house, and 
rightly so. His open-vowel vocals were a 
perfect match for the bell tones of Metheny 
and Mays, and his percussion work is a 
worthwhile addition to the group sound.
Last July at the Stanley Theater the group 
debuted a long piece which Metheny called, 
just for us, “Pittsburgh.” Some of the epic 
power has been excised in the meantime, 
perhaps to make it album-sized, but it still 
contains an undeniable natural beauty. 
Clapping, classical guitar, folk guitar, 
majestic piano and a well-turned vocal 
theme made this piece immediately moving.
Other new songs included a sort of 
uptempo sequel to “Are You Going With 
Me?” and a ballad featuring Aznar’s Spanish 
lyrics. Comic relief was provided by a 
marching band spoof — Rodby on bass
drum, Wertico on snare, Mays on a hot- 
dogging trumpet, Metheny’s guitar provid­
ing the clarinets. The best touch: Aznar on a 
silver bell lyre. Self-indulgence was provided 
too with the “Offramp”-esque tribute to 
Omette Coleman — an exercise in technol­
ogy ala Emerson, Lake and Palmer at their 
worst which left this listener cold.
But the bulk of the evening was warm, 
glowing. The Pat Metheny group plays the 
music of anticipation, movement towards, 
shifting the chords, hinting at an end but 
rarely allowing a true climax. Their best 
material brings the listener to the point 
where he can feel the music resolving, break­
ing into a final movement, but then the 
pieces simply dissolve, in fizzles and pops 
like “Are You Going With Me?” or coming 
full circle, like “San Lorenzo.” Yet each new 
melody, rhythm, and instrument is as star­
tling and welcome as a beautiful woman 
continued on page 10
Cage speaks to students
By MARK LEVINE
Tartan Entertainment Editor
I welcome whatever happens next.” 
his quote, spoken by John Cage, 
nowned music; innovator, seemed to sum 
P his entire musical career. Mr. Cage lec- 
u'ed and answered questions last Friday in 
ront of a crowded Alumni Concert Hall. 
John Cage, for those of you unfamiliar 
ith experimental music, is one of the 
athers of the spontaneous style of compos- 
ng which is sometimes called “Modem 
nsic. One of his main “innovations” was 
heavy-handed use of silence. He wrote a 
k called Silence, and a composition 
hich consisted of nothing but that.
But he is a serious composer, though he 
(e|y confessed that he does not like har- 
°ny. He spoke of one time when he was 
sked to adapt some hymns written in 1776 
1 a bicentennial composition. The hymns 
(re of course very harmonious, and he des- 
I >>bed the long and complicated process he 
I (nt though — taking the “inactive” notes 
I (il( h of the four voices and replacing them 
I either repetitions of the active notes or 
Ilt( i silence. ITnis each sound was preceded 
1^ followed by silence. The result was that 
I e flavor was there, but the law was gone! ” 
I ls l^le law of harmony that Cage has 
lLt‘n against.
I He said he doesn’t look back on his work as 
i0°d or bad. He does not want to make
judgements, but asks of his work: Does it get 
to the root of the matter?
He was an interesting speaker; speaking 
slow4y partly because of his advanced age 
and partly, it seemed, because he was choos­
ing his words very, very carefully.
He began the lecture by reading a series of 
poems he wrote on the various facets of 
composition, and then went on to talk 
about his involvement with the Merce Cun­
ningham Dance Company, whose perfor­
mances in town have brought Mr. Cage 
here.
The seriousness and theoretical nature of 
the lecture was often broken up by Cage 
who made himself laugh almost as often as 
he made his audience laugh.
In talking of his involvement of Merce 
Cunningham, he said that “the music does 
not support the dance and the dance does 
not interpret the music.” The inevitable 
question, then, was: what was the relation­
ship between the two? And in true John 
Cage form he answered “They occur at the 
same place and at the same time!”
Spontaneity seemed to be what the man 
was getting at. He was for improvisation — 
but only if it was with an instrument that 
you were unfamiliar with, had no control 
over. He wanted to create “Music which 
requires my presence but which pays abso­
lutely no attention to the fact that I’m there.”
Photo by Mark Levine
John Cage (right, with book) shares a faugh with audience members after h» lecture.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10—The Tartan—February 14, 1984
A /catrazz
New band puts c/ass back into rock 7T roll with their No Parole
By LESLEY BRUNKER
Tartan Staffiuriter
Maybelline must be cleaning up. 
Judging by the amount of paint on the 
faces of the members of such Kiss spawns as 
Twisted Sister and Motley Crue, make-up 
companies must be making as 
much money as Marshall. It’s 
getting harder to tell if you’re at 
a rock concert or a fasion show 
But in a day where dress and decibels 
count as much, if not more, than musical 
ability, check out Alcatrazz for a bit of reas­
surance that class and rock can mix. This 
Los Angeles based quintet, founded by jour­
neyman vocalist Graham Bonnet and feat­
uring the mach-2 guitar work of Yngwie
Malmsteen (ex-Steeler), brings back memories 
of such older acts as Deep Purple and early 
Rainbow.
Perhaps too many memories. Back in 
1979, Bonnet made an album (“Down to 
Earth”) with Rainbow, and he was evi­
dently impressed enough to emulate what 
he heard. After a horrid liquor stained round 
with the Michael Schenker Group (he was 
fired for some drunken mouthing off),
Bonnet went to L.A. to more or less copy 
Black more’s Rainbow.
Though this is not the same built- 
around-a-superstar setup, it does have the 
same key elements: a power vocalist, a fast
• and furious guitarist, and keyboards instead 
of a second guitar for a more ensemble-like 
sound. The similarities go further in Malm- 
steen’s playing. He was undoubtedly influ­
enced by Sir Ritchie, with strong 
Blackmoreish touches in his solo in “Kree 
Nakoorie” and his teasing half-riffs in 
“Bigfoot.”
But if imitation is the sincerest form of 
flattery', Blackmore 8c Co should surely be 
flattered, for “No Parole From Rock ‘n‘ 
Roll” is an excellent album. After the single 
“Island in the Sky”, every song hits hard,- 
particularly “Hiroshima Mon Amour” and 
“Kree Nakoorie.”
Other gems are the very busy “Bigfoot”, 
the lyrical highlight “Too Young to Die, 
Too Drunk to Live” (which «better than its 
title), and the power ballad “Suffer Me”, 
featuring some of Bonnet’s better singing. 
“General Hospital” makes good use of the 
ensemble sound, and “Incubus” is an exper­
imental change of pace.
With the exception of Bonnet, the 
members of the band have little past expo­
sure. Both keyboardist Jimmy Waldo and 
bassist Gary Shea come from the band Newr 
England, who put out albums in 1979 and 
80. Jan Uvena played for Alice Cooper for a 
short while, and Malmsteen has only 
recently surfaced with Steeler. They’re
unformed enough to grow, and it’s likely 
they’ll develop a more distinct personality 
and style.
In breaking away from major trends of 
the day, Alcatrazz sets itself apart. “No 
Parole from Rock ‘n‘ Roll” is a powerful 
debut album, unhidden by garish gim­
micks. This band has a bright future.
AB Concerts brings Pat Metheny to Pittsburgh
continued from page 9
sweeping into an already crowded room.
The group has been evolving its old 
numbers as well as its new. All that 
remained of “James” Thursday night were 
the chords, but it worked very well as a 
campy blues number. “Jaco” has become 
more sparse, and Metheny became so 
involved in the evening’s rendition that he 
forgot to end exactly on time. It simply 
shows how much the group is still creating 
its old pieces. They seemed a bit impatient, 
however, with “Are You Going With Me?” 
letting it heat up too quickly — this piece 
must move slowly to work at all. The sole 
encore, “American Garage,” was fun but a
tad perfunctory. Aznar’s berimbau solo dur­
ing “The Fields, the Sky” and the drum duel 
in “Straight on Red” were other standouts, 
along with that sweet, wet prairie sunset, 
“Farmer’s Trust.” The most sublime musi­
cal statement the group has ever made 
remains “San Lorenzo,” one of the first 
Metheny/Mays compositions. Mays’ proud 
piano chords and Metheny’s guitar are 
very heartening to hear, time and time 
again. Music to make the heart and the feet 
bounce. Music to come back to in the future, 
which Thursday night’s concert proved is 
very much alive for the Pat Metheny Group. 
AB Concerts should be thanked for a won­
derful evening.
Drama's “Legend of Lovers" opens Thursday
The Camegie-Mellon University Drama 
Department will present Jean Anouilh’s 
“Legend erf Lovers,” under the direction of 
Edward Payson Call, at 8 p.m., Feb.16 
through March 3 with matinees on Satur­
days at 2.
Based on the Greek myth of Orpheus and 
Eurydice, “Legend of Lovers” is set in 
France in the 1940s.
According to Call, the play “has as 
romantic and touching a portrayal of the act
of falling in love as you will find in modem 
literature,” despite having been “written by 
a cynical Frenchman who can’t seem to 
make up his mind whether he is portraying 
life’s greatest glory or greatest folly.”
Call is the founding artistic director of the 
Denver Center Theatre Company and was 
on the original staff of the Guthrie Theater 
under Tyrone Guthrie. He has directed at 
the Guthrie, Arena Stage, San Diego Shakes­
peare Festival, Seatde Repertory Company,
Mark Taper Forum, McCarter Theatre in 
Princeton, N.J., American Conservatory 
Theatre, Goodman Theatre, the Strafford in 
Connecticut, Sydney Opera House in Aus­
tralia, and the Long Wharf Theatre, among 
others. Call also has acted in over 50 roles in 
stock and repertory theater.
The cast for “Legend of Lovers” includes 
John Gribben as Orpheus, Anne Altieri as 
Eurydice, Aaron Kjenaas, Brad White, 
Deborah Turcotte, David Gifford, Paul
Schoeffler, Michael Hartson, Janet | 
Mitchko, Michael McGovern, Nicole Hal- 
mos, Patrick Dominguez, Stanley Albers, | 
Lynn dark and Sid Sidner.
The play, translated by Kitty Black, is one! 
of four “pieces noires” (black plays) which [ 
Anouilh wrote in the early ’40s. The play 
wright called them black plays because they | 
stressed tragedy and realism.
For further information or tickets, contact | 
the box office at 578-2407.
H ir R BLOCK
FREE TAX CLINIC
Information
Demonstration
Question and Answer
Thursday, February 16, 1984 
12:00 — 2:00 pm 
Wherrett Km., Skibo
Sponsor«! by Student Activities
ir
te
à
to
T
a*at
th
fo
su
ex
m
za
UIa
th
ga
Sh
ha 
W( 
gli 
ten 
hat 
¦ 1 
|] 
Se, 
pi 
ea 
Pai 
m

---------------------------------------------------

Sports.
Tartans drop two
Men victims of Bethany's stall and Gators' brawn
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan Sports Editor
Xhe Tartan men’s basketball team 
dropped two tough games this week, to 
Bethany and Allegheny, to lower their 
[record to 4-13 overall, 2-8 in the Presi­
dents’ Atheletic Conference.
The Bethany Bisons, w'ho defeated 
I CMU 61-57 earlier in the season, had a 
tougher task this time. Doug Black and 
Frank Yankovich, wrho had scored 36 
points combined against the Tartans in 
I January, were both injured. This left the 
¡Bisons without a scorer, so they changed 
[their game plan.
With twelve minutes left in the game, 
ind the score tied at 34, Bethany went 
[into a stall. At that point, forward Rob 
iRukowski had 11 points and nine 
rebounds to lead the Tartans. Kukowski 
[would end the game w ith those statistics, 
?cause CMU would not touch the ball 
rgain. Freshman Jay Weisberg hit a base­
line fadeaway jumper at the buzzer to 
i( feat the Tartans, 36-34. Kukowski w^as 
[the only Tartan in double figures.
Saturday night CMU travelled to 
Ullegheny to face the second place
Gators. The final score was 83-70, but it 
was an even game in all but two 
categories.
Both teams shot 41 percent 
from the field, both had 14 assists, nine 
steals, and the personal fouls read 22-21 
Allegheny. Allegheny had more turnov­
ers, 15-8, but the game was decided in two 
areas. Allegheny outrebounded the Tar­
tans 50-30, led by Chris Levels’ 14. CMU 
was led by Kukowski and George Debski 
with seven each. The Gators also out- 
scored CMU from the foul line, connect­
ing on 23 of 37, w hile the Tartans made 
14 of 23.
Bill Mills led the Gators* with 21 
points, while four others had ten points, 
including Bob Williams, who had nine 
assists. The Tartans were led by John 
Taormina’s 20 points (9 for 15 shooting, 
four rebounds) and Kukowski’s 16 
points. Taormina became the fourth Tar­
tan to score 20 or more points this season, 
and the sixth with over 17. But it was not 
enough to overtake Allegheny.
The Tartans have just four games 
remaining, three at home, including 
league leading Hiram next Saturday.
Allegheny 83 CMU 70
I-]WEISBRGFGFTTPALLEGHENY(83)FGFTTP
S,Kukowski4-78-1416Levels5-90-510
BVaite3-80-06Rudzki5-120-010
íeBeff2-71-15Penn0-85-65
iiBabrú 14-120-08Jones3-114-610
iy-Brennan2-31-15Williams5-90-010
«ÏBaormina9-152-420Mills8-145-621
Bondck1-20-02Miller2-41-35
Kti ESäxton0-10-00Pawelec1-41-23
Bebski2-102-36Stadnik1-20-02
ttestrich1-40-02Katz0-07-97
11‘'.v v '' 'Shoda0-00-00
Botáis28-6914-2370Totals30-7323-3783
CMU .405 Allegheny .410. Rebounds—CMU 30 (Kukowski, Debski, 7 each), Allegh- 
jiy 50 (Levels 14). Assists—CMU 14 (Gabriel 6), Allegheny 14 (Williams 9). Turnovers—
8, Allegheny 15.
....... .?.V i____
Photo by John Rogers 
Ray Brennan makes a strong move to the basket in a game with W&J.I ——-----------— — -o------------ —J'-----—---------------------- i .........................".................... .................. ................................................................ ...4 ^ _omen blown out by Allegheny, lose to Seton Hill
MARGARET WISMER
rtan Staffuuritn
The final score was 77-33 but it belied the 
pressive style the women’s basketball 
m flaunted at Alleghenv College Wednes- 
Y night. Though they couldn’t keep it 
gether through the second half, the Lady 
Jarians played some hard-nosed basketball 
inst a team ranked nationally in the top 
Allegheny jumped ahead a few times in 
|e first half but the Tartans relentlessly 
* ught back. They maintained their compo- 
lire to execute their offensive plays with 
j faience and control. They refused to let a 
I argin of six points scare them into hapha- 
1 fd passing and reluctant shooting.
I Thus they were constantly playing catch- 
1} and played it well to keep the game close. 
¡I nvn by nine at the half, CMU didn’t have 
|e °ntside shooters needed to close the 
I P \X ith such talented outside shooters as 
1131011 (-uster and Holly Wiederker who 
B 13 and 16 points respectively, Allegheny 
I nt on to dominate the remainder of the 
Im(' 1 hough Laurie Arendas (13 points, 
Indf *X)Un^s an(l l°ur steals) had a hotin the second half, it wasn’t enough
I alt Allegheny’s offensive machine.
I ^r*day night’s score was 61-56 in favor of 
11<m Hill though it told nothing of CMU’s 
B°pitious style which could have easily 
¦ni<’d them a win. Leading for the better 
In of the game, they didn’t run into any 
BaJ°t mishaps. None of the starters fouled
out, which usually becomes a key disadvan­
tage for the Tartans in the last few minutes. 
It was a one or two point game for the 
majority of forty minutes and the visiting 
Tartans never abandoned their concentra­
tion. At the half they led by one as Cheryl 
Hauser connected on a shot at the buzzer to 
make the score 31-30. It wasn’t a very hard- 
running game as both teams played wit) the 
ideology of “get the ball, go to your respective 
basket, set up the offense and shoot.” Such a 
refined style agreed quite well with Michelle 
Schlegel, who didn’t stop shooting until she 
had scored half of CMU’s total points.
Seton Hill did play a pressure defense in 
the first half but the Tartans handled it well, 
as their much improved ballhandling tech­
nique broke the press. Yet the game went 
down to those last tense minutes when the 
Tartans put on their own press to steal, foul, 
or anything so as not to lose. With seconds 
to go they were down by three — just a field 
goal and foul shot away, but the win wasn’t 
to be. According to coach Kathy Paczkowski 
the pressure game was a good experience. 
After the game she told the team, “We 
haven’t played many close games this sea­
son, and the only way to leam how to play 
close games is to play in them, so we should 
leam from this.”
As the season winds down to the Pen- 
nwood West Championships in March the 
Tartans should be prepared to play many 
more “clock deciding’’ close ones.
Photo by Bob Fischel
Laurie Arendas lines up a foul shot in a recent game.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12—The Tartan—February 14, 1984
mm
. WOUJARDJownsonS
Fencers pull even in bouts with I UP; 
Coach pleased with performances
Athletic department to run series of classes 
on CPR and Basic Life Support methods
TAKE THAT FIRST IMPORTANT CAREER STEP HERE
University of California
III Lawrence Livermore 
t National Laboratory
Ask your Placement Office for details on our 
upcoming Campus visit, or see our ad in this 
paper next Tuesday, February 21 for 
additional information.
LLNL is an equal opportunity employer, m/f/h 
P.O. Box 5510, Dept JCR, Livermore, CA 94550
ITASE CLOTHIER1VMOUSM
:UNKY DUDS FOR COOL CAT 
284 MORE WOOD 681-938'| 
MON/FR112-6 SAT 11*
By MAURA SAVINI
Tartan Staffivriter
The CMU fencing team found themselves 
pitted against Indiana University of Pen­
nsylvania last week, and it turned out to be a 
very close match.
The men’s A team (11-5) and the women’s 
B team (9-3) each won their divisions, but 
the women’s A team (4-8) and the men’s B 
team (7-14) both lost. Because of a time 
limit, the men’s C team ended up tied (5-5). 
Four CMU fencers, Team Captain Tom 
Ciminelli, Mike Crane, Kurt Krodt, and 
Elliot Jaffe were undefeated, and two
fencers, Captain Beth Meyers and Mark 
Accetta, only lost one bout.
Coach Jane Fisk was satisfied with the 
results of the match. She was also pleased 
that her fencers are working to improve their 
game and are showing progress.
Fisk was enthusiastic about the match 
held Saturday, February ,11, in Jthe main 
gym. The match is held annually here at 
CMU, and this year eight teams partici­
pated. The teams were Pitt, California Univ. 
of Pa., IUP, Penn State (Fayette Campus), 
Allegheny Community College, and CMU.
Through the combined efforts of the 
Carnegie-Mellon University Athletic 
Department and the Physical Education 
Department, a special course in closed chest 
cardiopulmonary resusitation and basic life 
support will be offered to students, faculty 
and staff members here on campus.
The special class will be conducted from 
9:30 to 11:30 a.m. Monday thru Friday, 
March 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9th in the CMU swim­
ming pool area.
Persons attending these sessions and pass­
ing all requirements of the course will be 
certified to administer Basic Life Support.
The course will be taught by American 
Red Cross CPR Instructors Earl Birdy and 
Joan Maser, of the CMU Physical Education 
Department, and Mark Keppler, the Head 
Trainer of the Athletic Department, a certi­
fied American Red Cross and American 
Heart Association CPR Instructor.
Please contact Earl Birdy x2214 to register 
for this important Life Saving Course.
WHERE DO YO 
SEND VISITORS?
Howard Johnson’s Motor Lodge 
in Oakland “We've Changed” 
SEEING IS BELIEVING!
STOP IN AND VISIT OR CALL 
WE’D LOVE TO SHOW YOU AROUND
683-6100
3401 Blvd. of Allies Pittsburgh 15213
Alone Si Pregnant? 
Need Help?
Free Pregnancy Testing
For a confidential friend call:
LIFELINE
Downtown Pgh 562-0543
Beaver County 843-0505
Mon Valley 489-9020
Butler County 282-1200United Wäy
This past Saturday, CMU’s swim team defeated John Carroll for the first time in seven 
while losing their meet with

---------------------------------------------------

Student Government President and 
Student Senate ElectionsMarch 14 & 15, 1984
Openings in all colleges except GSIA & SUPA. 
To be considered eligible to hold a seat, you must meet the following qualifications:
l.2.
3.
4.
Be an Activities-Fee paying student of CMU.
Be a member of the college in which you are petitioning.
File a petition with at lest 25 signatures of Activities-Fee paying CMU students from your constituency.
Students may sign only one petition. Duplicate signatures will be invalid on all petitions on which they appear 
for a given college.
Submit this petition by 5 p.m. to the Rules Committee mailbox at the Skibo Information Desk.
CANDIDATE S NAME 
ADDRESS_______________
PHONE NUMBER
PETITION FOR STUDENT SENATE
We, the undersigned, as members of this candidate’s constituency, do nominate the above
candidate for a post on the Student Senate as a representative for___________________________________
(college).
SignatureName (PRINTED)AddressPhone #
i._
2.
3._
4. _ 
5__ 
6._
7._
8._
9._
10.
11.
12.
13.
14. 
15/ 
16. .
17.
18.
19.
20.
21. ' 
22. .
23.
24.
25.'
26.'
27.
28. 
29.
30..
31.
32. ~
33. _
34. _
35. ~
You may get more than the required 25 signatures, as some max Ix* invalidated. I he candidate must .be a full-time member of the constituency 
Return to the Information Desk by :) p.m., February 28,1984
Do Not use this petition for Presidential Seat. Pick one up at Skibo information desk.
Kunditl b\ Attivine* ier

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14—The Tartan—February 14, 1984
IM Report
Dates set
By SEAN QUINN
Tartan Staffivriter
“Just some dates to remember” is the sub­
ject of today’s I.M. report. First, Thursday, 
February 16 is the due date for the following: 
call pool-individual, basketball foul shoot­
ing, co-rec badminton, and co-rec table ten­
nis. The other big dates are Friday, March 2 
and Saturday, March 3. They are the dates 
for wrestling finals.
Type It Right
2Footnotes 
without tears”
Full service 
word processing specialists 
Theses, Term-Papers, 
Dissertations 
Disk Storage 
Pickup & delivery available 
Open six days a week 
Mon.-Fri. 7 AM - 7 PM 
Sat. 9 AM - 12 NOON
Type It Right
5909 Penn Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15206 
661-3386
IM Standings
Basketball 1984Chi (C)wLSEC
MinorsReturn of the Gwangi50Phi Kap—A
Carl’s22L. B. Melmans
Skid Row22Cash in Advance
Alpha (A)
Tau Delta Phi Beta22Degenerates
wLTheta Xi—A -
Cafes40Basketball 1984Quiche Eaters
The Rev Team31IntermediateThe Press
Buster H. &ACCWLMath Grads
the Penetrators21
Engine Co. 2311Theta Xi—B30
Basketball 1984Carrott Cycles32Mothership30
Poo Poo Nu22 ;Old Mill workers2IMajors
Phi Kap “B”12ATO Maulers22Section A
AFROTC II13CIA22The MissionDelta Upsilon13Wooglin 5I1Pika—AThe Infected Scabs03Kappa Sig—B 
Back Door Men
0
0
3
4Suspended Animation 
Weight Watchers
Beta (B)wL. - v' :SAE
Less Filling30Big EastwLIcemen 
SUPA IFour O’s30MEMS40PenetratorsThe Bullets31Wolfpack30
AFROTC I216E Niners30I n , ¡11 -
Electric & Computer Eels32Penetrators30Section B
Zimbabwe Tech22Nasty Habits12Beta—A
7-E Sixers11Architects03K. C. Grelins
SAE02Bad Attitude03The Gents
KS—Bruisers03Earl’s Fools04Charmete
Forbes St. Bombers043;-P5Jt
Quiche Eaters 
C. E. Pika
Delta (D)wLBig 10w
, Running Rebels
Lost Cause14LFreelancers
Jump and Pump12Arch Angels40
The Dudes31Turning Machine20Women OnlyGumby’s14ATO Tide21
Men w/o Talent13Delta2 Phi21SUPA
Pika-C30DTD12Psychos
Fun Bunch31Clay Buckets025A
Ice Patrol40Tau Delta Phi Alpha02TX
Guvs and Girls22.Ml Card—No Board03DG
wL
30
30
31
2• 1
12
12
03
04
W
4
3
2
I
1
0
w
5
w
3
2
0
0
0
L
0
1
f
2
2
2
4
5
L
0
1
1
L
0
1
1
1
2
Don’t let the little guys fool you!
You’ve tried the rest . . . Now try the BEST!
***********CAPRIPIZZA
For FRIENDLY 
service and 
DELICIOUS food
We use TRUE 
MOZARELLA cheese 
— DO OTHERS?
Mon. - Sat. 5 - 2 a.m. 
Sundays 3-2 a.m.
FINAC 10 CUT 
PizzA ONly
22.99 + tax
Plus 2 FREE liters of Pepsi 
FREE delivery 7 days a week
3415 Forbes Ave., Oakland tele: 681 -2202, 2203
This price for lunch/dinner Eat in or order out.

---------------------------------------------------

BAHAMAS SPRING BREAK
from $345
Includes Round Trip Air, Transfer, Seven Nights Accom­
modation, Welcome Rum Swizzle, One Hour Rum Swizzle 
party, Canvas Travel Bag, Three Hour Cruise w/Two Hour 
Unlimited Rum Punch, Beach Party w/Lunch, All Taxes.
NO HIDDEN CHARGES
FORT LAdDERDALE SPRING BREAK
from $135
Includes seven nights at prime location, welcome party 
w/free beer, complimentary travel bag.
AMTRAK only $155
AIR ONLY $198
COLLEGE REP. NEEDED — EARN FREE TRIP
GREENWICH TRAVEL CENTER
1-800-243-3858
GET “RIPPED” FOR SPRING
AT THE CABER CLUB 
THE “HIGH-TECH” FITNESS 
FACILITY AT CMU
Why wait any longer — Spring is just around the comer. Now is the time
to get back in shape at the CABER CLUB. Convenient hours,
reasonable membership rates, and our trained staff is waiting to help
you with your training program. Ask about the President's Physical
Fitness and Sports program. For information or for an appointment call
extension 8876.
CABER CLUB CABER CLUB CABER CLUB
CABER CLUB
inner5ÎDON
'JÍ/lc/iewcod
J)J5, J9S44x30 ~J'()0ft/m
3(a/iaM 9fyecia//ieb
' weal a fedoUt ct and
leceir-e a t/rtee)/
' <>{</ wM i/W - $ 4.W
Starring Pittsburgh’s Prominent Jazz Artist — Sandy Staley
•IQ ID BOOED ED UdS
universitydining
service
Custom Designed Hairstylesthat only look expensive I
Our professional stylists know that to custom cut your hair the way you want, they 
must listen to what you want That s why at Great Expectations you'll leave 
with the style you had in mind, at a price you can afford 
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED
PRECISION NO PERMS FOR
HAIRCUT APPOINTMENT ALL STYLES
(ANY LENGTH) $25.00
$13.00
(W ASH-CUT -BLOW «STYLE)
Moa, Tun* 
Tbm, FtL l#4 
SM.M
COLOR ____
1*7 VJ
m-sm
NO APPOINTMENTS 
UNBEX HAIR SALON

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
Let issues, not cash determine the best candidati
Contrary to popular belief, the Democratic 
candidate for President has not yet been 
chosen. Neither the New Hampshire primary 
nor the Iowa Caucuses have been held, and 
already Walter Mondale is gearing his cam­
paign toward Ronald Reagan.
Maybe Reagan and Mondale are the two 
best candidates their parties have to offer, but 
that’s not why it is almost a certainty that 
Reagan and Mondale will face each other in 
the November elections. Both have been in the 
public eye, have better organizations, and have 
more money than their opponents. That’s why 
they will face each other.
But rich, organized celebrities are not exactly 
what a country needs for leadership. This may 
seem a Jitile old fashioned, but issues should 
govern the choice of a President.
For years people have complained that they 
vote not for the person they want but against 
the candidate they don’t want. It’s too late in 
the Republican primary. Anyone registered 
Republican will have to wait undl November 
for issue weighing. But the Democratic prim­
ary is rife with choice.
The democrats have representatives from 
the “left” in Mondale, McGovern and Jackson,
the “middle” in Glenn, Hart and Cranstri 
and the “right” in Askew and Hollings J 
two candidates agree on all the key issues i 
most CMU students consider important- 
economy, foreign affairs, the military, edurJ 
tion, and abortion.
So do two things that will certainly be \Vn 
the hour that it might take. First, find 
which candidate most closely matches yr 
own ideals in both the primary and gen« 
elections. Second, vote.
See Features for further information.
Drama department needs more rehearsal space
By Bill Garrison
The problem of adequate spacing around 
the University is an issue that has just 
recently required a serious and immediate 
solution. This problem particularly affects 
the drama students of CFA.
The workload of these stu- 
| dents goes well beyond the 
hours they spend in the class­
room. They must rehearse, and are also 
required to attend a “crew” session after 
their classes that lasts sometimes until 11 
p.m. The spacing problem starts here.
Aside from a few hours in between classes, 
which are spent on minor human necessi­
ties such as eating and sleeping, the late 
hours of the night are the only available 
umes that a drama student is able to 
rehearse. And rehearsal, a lot of umes, is 
more important than eating or sleeping to 
these students, because it usually constitutes 
a majority of their grade on an upcoming 
performance.
These late hours, necessitated by the 
department itself, should be insured for 
proper facilities, as well as for safety. This 
has not been so. The rehearsal facilities 
available to 4 classes of drama students are a 
few rooms in Margaret Morrison Hall, a few
rooms in the Fine Arts building, and a few 
in Baker Hall. These are severely insuffi­
cient given the amount of students partici­
pating in late-night rehearsals. This variety 
of places also poses a problem for Security. 
They have to spread out their protection for 
these students, and in doing so, reduce their 
effectiveness in responding to a call.
The sad part about this “sudden” realiza­
tion is that it took a tragedy to bring it about. 
The recent assault on a drama student is 
something we would all like to forget, but 
can’t. When a student of this university, 
regardless of their college and of the time of 
night, is physically molested in their own 
classroom, a change must come about.
Right now there is a multi-million dollar 
program being initiated by the university to 
construct a new athletic complex between 
Doherty Hall and the Bureau of Mines. This 
would totally alleviate the present spacing 
problems because the old gym is scheduled 
to undergo complete renovation and be con­
verted into a multi-faceted theater arts build­
ing. This building will include rehearsal 
studios, stages, and fully-equipped video 
rooms. The only problem with this plan is 
that it won’t be completed for at least 
another 5-6 years. The present problem
Student defends duly rewards 
of capitalistic America
By David Moskowitz
Last week I was shown an article from the 
February 5th New York Times by promi­
nent economist and MIT professor Lester C. 
Thurow. In it he made the claim “If our
/conventional wisdom is right 
and the middle class really is the 
social give that holds society 
together, then America is in the 
process of becoming unglued.”
He states that the percentage of middle 
class, average household incomes (currendy 
between $15,100 and $25,200) has declined 
from 28.7% of the population in 1967 to 
23.7% today widi about half moving in each 
direction. Mr. Thurow cites two reasons 
(which are probably correct) for this change 
in income distribution. First, America’s new 
growth industries of high technology tend 
to have two levels of income distribution 
made up of high and low technicians and 
assemlers, as opposed to the “smokestack” 
industries with their high wage, skilled 
blue-collar workers of median income. 
Secondly, it is to some extent a product of a 
non-union environment.
He writes “What unions did was to con­
vert jobs that probably weren’t middle 
income jobs based on the skills required into 
middle income ones. Earnings were redis­
tributed within the industry toward those 
with the least skills. Consequendy, a bipolar 
income distribution composed of rich and
poor is replacing the wide expanse of the 
middle class.” (Okay Mr. Thurow, you are 
probably right, what does all this mean?)
“From the point of view of technical eco­
nomics it is of no concern, but it is a cause of 
concern for the American political 
democracy.”
He then cites what Karl Marx (wouldn’t 
you know it) saw as an inevitable revolution 
based on the assumption of a bipolar 
income distribution composed of rich and 
poor with the poor destroying the rich and 
establishing communism. He adds “But 
Marx’s revolution didn’t occur because he 
did not foresee the rise of the middle class, 
who had an interest in preserving capitalism 
and voted to alleviate the worst excesses of 
capitalism with social welfare programs.”
Thurow sees Marx’s predictions coming 
true today. His remedies, implied here but 
explicitly stated elsewhere, to increase social 
programs and planning. (For those of you 
not familiar with Mr. Thurow, the extent of 
his would-be social planning is immense). 
Thus he is offering us socialism to prevent 
communism. Are these really our only two 
choices? He would have us think so.
My answer to this is yes, Mr. Thurow, you 
are right The middle class may be disap­
pearing, though certainly not to an extent to 
cause revolution. This process must be 
examined. The new growth industries and 
cowtinyd on pago 17
must be dealt with now. There is a solution.
In going over the issues and some possible 
solutions, I, along with tormer drama stu­
dent Kate Hopkins, have arrived at a tem­
porary answer that is safe, adequate and 
inexpensive.
The present gym closes at 11 p.m. on 
weekdays. Our proposal asks that the gym 
be allowed to remain open, for drama stu­
dents only, from 11 p.m. to 3 a.m. for rehear­
sals. The spacing is adequate. There are two 
gym floors; the larger one has a stage and the 
smaller one is more than big enough for 
dancing, acting, etc. Some measure of secur­
ity will be applied, such as a security guard 
or work-study student remaining at the 
entrance at all times.
To insure that only drama students enter, 
some type of sticker will be placed on the 
students’ I.D.s, or a department card will be
issued to all students. Costumes and i 
may be brought in as long as they arecj 
pletely removed upon departure. Any; 
dalism will be met with the imn 
cancellation of the gym’s use. Since t 
special hours for the gym on we 
there will be special rehearsal hours a 
Kate Hopkins and I hope that this planl 
be put into effect as soon as possible.
When this idea was presented to Pn 
Cyert, he responded: “It sounds like anil 
esting idea. I don’t see any problem wif 
If we could make certain that there woi®51, 
no vandalism, it would certainly befer®' 
Have a talk with Mel Shapiro and well 
what we can do.” All students shouldr^ 1 
sider this a victory. We deserve this kii^ri 
action.
Bill Garrison is a junior in Tech 
Writing and a staffwriter for The Taj
Stay away from the evils 
government employment
Editor:
I have a Bachelor of Arts degree from 
Columbia University and retired after hav­
ing worked for many years for the federal 
government’s Social Security Administra­
tion and Health Care Financing Adminis­
tration. I very strongly urge all college 
graduates not to work for the United States 
Government because:
1. Wages and salaries for federal workers 
are on the average 22% below the pay that 
workers in private enterprise receive for 
essentially the same jobs. The most pay that 
a Federal employee can receive is $57,500 a 
year, which is very small compared to the 
yearly salaries of many private company 
executives which are in the hundreds of 
thousands of dollars, and which in some 
cases exceed $1,000,000.
2. Federal employees have to pay a high 
percentage of the premiums for their health 
and life insurance, whereas, many employers 
in private enterprise pay all of such premi­
ums for their employees.
3. Federal employees have to pay into 
Medicare’s Hospital Trust Fund, and effec-
Opinion Policy
Editorials appear at the beginning of the opinion 
section, and are the official opinion of The Tar­
tan Editorial Board.
Columns are the opinions of individual authors 
who are usually on The Tartan staff, hut the 
opinions are not necessarily those of The Tartan 
Editorial Board.
Letters to the Editor are opinions of individual 
authors who are usually members of the Univer­
sity community. A letter intended for publication 
must be signed and include the writer’s address 
and phone number for verification. Names will 
be withheld upon request. The Tartan reserves 
the right to condense or reject any letter.
tive with January 1, 1984, new
employees will also have to pay into|
Security’s other trust funds. This is in|
tion to paying into the Civil Seracei
ment System. It constitutes just a sne
by which the Reagan Administrate
Congress have taken Federal emp
money- to shore up Medicare and |
Security. Federal employees have I
heajth insurance and retirement syster 
continued onpThëlart
Editor in Chief.........
Managing Editor 
Business Manager...
News Editor.............
Features Editor.........
Entertainment Editor
Sports Editor.............
Photography Editor . 
Production Manager 
Typesetting Manager
Art Director...............
Contributing Editors
...........Rie
...........Susa»|
............Karenj
.. Neil J. G1 
.. Neal Wj...........Mart
Christopher
.........Mike
__Maflfrd
...............Patii
Michael
.........Moni
PaiCe 
Paulii*
. Adaij4 IAsst. Eut. Editor.................
Asst. Sports Editor.............
Asse. Business Manager ................
Production Staff: Robert Aarhus, St^fl 
Peter Bain, David Fields, Bill 
Gialamas, Andrew Oliali, Susan ÌVfclli^ 
Newton, Tracey Pejouhy, Stephen
tec 
jTh 
I he 
wh
Iss
er
Volai
Copyright © 198-1 by The Tartan. The ^! 
reserves the tight to withhold from Pu 
copy it deems unlit for publication.
Skibo 50, (412) 578-2111. Business Off'«*] 
(412) 578-2112. 24 hour phone, (412) 57*** 
address: Box 17, Schenley Park, Pittsburg] 
Funded by the Activities f*' 
All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

February 14, 1984—The Tartan—Page 17
gtters:
ockers in gym should not 
ck out prospective users
'tor.a tuition paying member of the student 
v here at CMU, I am writing to express 
frustration with the men’s locker room 
jje gym, and to offer a possible solution. 
por those of you who don’t know, the 
Jty and staff have a separate locker room 
their lockers. Anyone who is unfortunate 
ugh to not be a faculty or staff member 
I who goes into the men’s locker room is 
¡liar with the ritual of trying to hunt 
zn a locker. Today, I went to the gym to 
e a swim, but was usuccessful in my 
ch for a locker. Now I don’t go with any
¦ of actually being able to use one of the 
length lockers, for in the year and a half 
ive been here I have never seen one of 
n either without a lock on it, or open 
being used by someone. I am told that 
e are reserved for visiting dignitaries, 
igh the thought that CMU has 50 visit- 
dignitaries who want to use the locker 
n every day is suspect in my mind, 
litting the possibility that this is true, 
ever, there are still hundreds of the
I lockers for us money-paying students 
¡e.
t today they were all filled. Some by 
others with cobwebs, more with towels 
weat shirts long forgotten. And many 
actually being used by people who 
in the building using the facilities, 
ropose that the lockers whose sole pur- 
is to hold the locks of the class of 1974 
ed from their long vigil, and allowed to 
ed by the student body of 1984. This
could be done by the very simple expedient 
of running off a few hundred copies of a 
notice, and have one placed into each locker. 
The notice could read something like this: 
This locker is the property of the student 
body of CMU, and is intended to be used for 
the temporary holding of articles while the 
articles’owner is utilizing gym facilities. It is 
not your personal locker.
If after one week this notice is still in this 
locker, your lock will be cut off and the 
contents of the locker will be held in the 
main office. If your things are not claimed 
by the end of the semester, they will be 
thrown out. This policy was used at my old 
school, with the result that there were 
always plenty of spare lockers around.
Ignoring the sarcasm in this letter, 
brought out by my anger and frustration, I 
feel that this is a legitimate problem, and I 
feel that I have offered a simple, easy, practi­
cal, and fair solution.
Bruce Whittaker 
ECE Graduate Student
Reader offers comment on foreign policy
Editor:
There are several points in Felicia Pratto’s 
opinion column “America is too quick to 
use military force where diplomacy is suffi­
cient” that are so astounding they need to be 
addressed.
1. On the point of the Japanese condemn­
ing U.S. economic policy: It is awrfully con-
o-choice advocate speaks 
it for freedoms and rights
lought I’d put in my few cents worth 
|ie ever-continuing abortion argument. 
Ist easy. You’ve already been bom. If 
haven’t been bom, don’t worry, you 
I read. It always amazes me, the tactics
I lifers” use, like marching last year with
II reading “CMU is pro-life.” Tactics 
hat nearly make me toss my cookies 
“ peanut-butter variety).
|m obviously not a “pro-lifer” (an 
nded misnomer, in case you haven’t 
to notice). What am I? Pro-death? Cer- 
not. Pro-abortion? Absolutely not. I 
H °~choice. I’ll refer to “pro-lifers” from 
mt on as anti-choicers (to be more
cial welfare programs not 
efficient for true security
WN from page 16
accurate).
I fully believe in nearly limidess personal 
freedoms and rights. I think it’s the underly­
ing theme of the free world- But no one has 
the right to tell someone else what to do, 
especially concerning a personal/intimate 
matter like abortion. Telling others what 
they may and may not do can reach nearly 
comic proportions.
If you will, picture a couple in bed. Imme­
diately after the sperm has fertilized the 
ovum, swarms of people break down the 
door and climb in the windows. “Hold it 
right there. Don’t anybody move! This 
enure matter is now out of your hands. We 
continued on page 18
y.
fc technology require more technical 
BHiose who can meet the requirements 
T he competent) are duly rewarded;
• who don’t meet the requirements (i.e., 
gss cornpetent) are paid what they 
I ’ not inflated middle income levels
¦ wr level jobs. While before ‘ ‘earnings 
R edistributed toward those with the 
I ^s> n°w earnings are being distrib- 
Ilor( m proportion to skills possessed. 
m ’ exarnple is symbolic of the essence of
¦ ism. With progress (i.e., high-tech)
I Possibility of personal advance-
¦ and Usually the advancement of all). 
1* ° Possess the ability necessary are 
J > while those who do not must
t0 reach it.
B talism is the freedom to strive for 
S.S and the justice to be rewarded 
e these Mr. Thurow’s “worst
excesses of capitalism”? No. they are the 
highest ideals upon which our country is 
built on and the foundation for its greatness.
The social welfare programs cited to alle­
viate this occurence is an example of com­
promise. (The fact that they cripple our 
economy is another story). It is a comprom­
ise between good and evil, of which only evil 
can profit.
Why give in? You will get nothing in 
return. Security, you say? Who has the right 
to threaten our security? They have no justifi- 
able reasons. Our laws are here to protect us. 
If they fail, well then our whole system fails.
What! You don’t like the system? Well, 
there has been a little experiment going on 
in a place called Russia. Maybe you’d fit in 
better over there.
David Moskoivitz is a freshman in CIT 
and a columnist for The Tartan.
venient for the Japanese to condemn our 
economic policy when the U.S. provides 
Japan with a military umbrella allowing 
them to invest more money in their indus­
trial sector. It is also convenient that the 
Japanese established trade restrictions with 
the U.S. that leaves the balance of trade in 
their favor.
2. On the issue of aid to Third World 
countries: It is in our national interest to 
support these countries since they are prime 
targets of Soviet expansionism. One might 
say, who cares about those, as Ms. Pratto 
says, “dinky, poor, non-white (as though if 
they were white we should support them)” 
countries, let the Soviets have them.
Well, consider the fact that in the 1960’s 
and 1970’s, the U.S. economy began to 
develop significant dependence on these less 
developed countries for imports — mainly 
raw materials, of which oil was the most 
important. The Arab oil embargo of 1973-74 
gave an indication of the degree of depend­
ence of the U.S. economy on petroleum. 
Now would it not be great for our economy 
to allow the Soviets to control our supply of 
raw materials?
3. On the issue of Central America: The 
U.S. has its hands too full with conflicts and 
expansionism in Asia, Europe, and Africa to 
allow conflicts in our own hemisphere to 
escalate into a major and ongoing area of 
insurrections. It’s better to stop it now than 
to worry later about military conflicts along 
our own borders if it were to spread.
4. On her implied issue that increased 
military spending is the cause of our 
national deficit: To use Ms. Pratto’s flippant 
phrase, “in case you haven’t heard,”
a. The U.S defense budget increase 
totalled 3-4%.
b. Compared to expenditures on social 
spending, U.S. defense expenditures 
are 33% less.
c. In the 1970’s, U.S. defense spending 
did not even keep pace with inflation 
(while the Soviet defense spending 
increased by 40%).
d. In 1962 (under President Kennedy) 
defense spending was 45.9% of the fed­
eral budget. In 1984 defense will com­
prise 29% of federal spending.
e. Considering our nuclear spending, 
nuclear forces (missiles, bombers, and 
submarines) take up $0.10 of each 
defense dollar.5. On the issue that “defense spending
hurts the economy”: This statement is hard 
to believe since history bears out the fact that 
when defense spending peaks (i.e., during 
war time) our economy is bullish.
In her statistics of how many jobs $1 mil­
lion would create if spent on education and 
health care, she fails to contrast that with 
how many jobs the same amount of money 
spent on defense would create.
Furthermore, in her “studies” that she 
relies upon, she fails to mention where they 
came from, the bias of the people who made 
them, other economic factors involved and 
so forth. It is hard to believe that a psychol­
ogy alumnus who has been trained in the 
use of studies would simply overlook these 
relevant factors.
6. On the issue of developing new “defen­
sive systems” versus strengthening “educa- 
continued on page 18
Joel's LP 
subject of
dispute
Editor
I would like to agree with many of the 
facts Scot Sutton presented in the February 7 
edition cAThe Tartan (“Billy Joel remixes 
old album, uncovers gold”), but unfortu­
nately the research he provided was 
incorrect.
Firsdy, the chronological order he pres­
ented the albums in was incorrect. The 
album Turnstiles, was in fact not Joel’s 
second album as Sutton stated. The album 
Piano Man was second. I learned this fact by 
checking the copyright dates on my albums;
I don’t think they differ on Sutton’s albums.
Secondly, I don’t feel a musician needs a 
“rocket trip to the charts” as Sutton stated, to 
be a good musician. It is true that Joel’s best 
music is his earliest, probably because his 
pop music is so overplayed it is monoto­
nous. I find it almost unfortunate that Joel 
is re-releasing his Cold Spring Harbor 
album, rather than never taking it off the 
market. Now during this time of MTV, 
VHS, and other over-used forms of media, 
the Cold Sprint Harbor album will proba­
bly become as monotonous as his newest 
works, rather than being the special vintage 
it once was to its few owners.
Rachel Sekuler

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18—The Tartan—February 14, 1984
i
Work in menial position not as bad as government
continued from page 16
cannot bear these additional expenses.
4. The Reagan Administration has 
reaised federal employees’ and retirees’ 
health insurance premiums to exorbitant 
levels and cut their health insurance cover­
age drastically.
5. According to the Congressional Budget 
Office, federal employees receive less vaca­
tion and holiday time than do many people 
in private enterprise. For example, steel 
workers have been given 13 week vacations 
every’ 5 years (in addition to their regular 
vacations during the intervening years) 
upon attaining a certain seniority.
6. The Congressional Budget Office also 
states that federal employees receive less sick 
time than do many private enterprise 
employees.
7. Federal employees work a 40 hour week 
while many private enterprise workers have 
wor-k weeks of less houre. Forexample, the 
electricians in New York City obtained a 25 
hour work week many years ago.
8. For many years federal employees have 
paid 7% of their total pay into their retire­
ment fund. They have had to pay into their 
fund far more than people covered by Social 
Security have been required to pay into the 
Social Security trust funds. The vast major­
ity of private enterprise retirement plans are 
fully paid for by the employers with no 
employee contributions required, and pri­
vate plans are protected by a federal law, the 
Pension Benefit Guarantee statute.
9. Federal employees do not receive 
Christmas or any other bonuses, have profit 
sharing plans, stock option plans, etc.
"Pro-life" questions 
disregarded as bogus
continued from page 17
have decided that you will have this child. 
No turning back. What? I don’t care if this is 
the one time out of one thousand that the 
pill didn’t work. You will have that baby.” 
You simply have no right to tell a woman 
(and her partner) what she is or is not to do 
with her body. Have you anti-choicers ever 
heard of the word privacy or the phrase 
“mind your own business”?
If you ask an anti-choicer how old (s)he is,
allegheny 
reproductive 
health 
center
abortion 
menstrual extraction
free pregnancy testing 
vd and contraceptive care
all services confidential
121 s. highland ave., 
Pittsburgh 
363-1107
why does (s)he give the elapsed time since 
his/her birth instead of the elapsed time 
since his/her conception? Ask one 
sometime.
You ask whether I am glad I was bom? I 
don’t take bogus questions seriously. If I 
were never bom, I wouldn’t know the differ­
ence. I wouldn’t be sad or glad. I wouldn’t 
be, period.
For you anti-choice, religious types: 
Wouldn’t an innocent, helpless fetus go to 
heaven and be happy if aborted?
Arnold Kamis 
Applied Math/CS ’86
QUALITY TYPING
These, resumes and personalized cover 
letters.
Done Quickly at reasonable rates.
M.J. Martz Typing 
and
Professional Service 
401 Wood St. Suite 701 
Pgh. PA 15222, 471-0562
The Institute (or Paralegal Training works.So do its graduates.
Four months of intensive training can 
add market value to your college degree.
A sampling of jobs our graduates hold: LEGISLATIVE RESEARCHER, MUNICIPAL BOND PARALEGAL, REAL ESTATE MARKETING DIRECTOR,ESTATES & TRUSTS LEGAL ASSISTANT, ENERGY SPECIALIST, ANTITRUST SPECIALIST, CORPORATE BENEFITS PLANNER, ENVIRONMENTAL LAW SPECIALIST
• Through our corporate contacts, our national search team and our computerized placement service, we have placed over 5,000 erf our graduates in law firms, banks and corporations nationwide.• You can specialize in one of seven areas of the law.• All courses include training in computer applications to legal practice.• If we cannot secure a job for you in the city erf your choice, we provide a substantial tuition refund.• Financial aid and housing are available.
Well be at your campus on February 15
Contact your placement office to see our resource book on law-related careers and to arrange for a group presentation or a personal interview.rTo learn more, call collect: (215) 567-4811 Or, return the coupon.
THE INSTITUTE
PORFAR^l^CAL
TRAINING
Philadelphia
Houston
I
Mail this coupon to: RCMU
The Institute for Paralegal Training,
1926 Arch Street, Philadelphia, PA 19103
Please send a free copy of your catalogue.
C Philadelphia ? Houston
Nam*_____
Address____
City----------
Cottage____
Phone ____
Stata .Zip
10. Federal employees are forbidden to 
engage in politics. This is a complete viola­
tion of their Constitutional rights of free 
expression and association.
11. Federal retirees who are under age 62 
are only going to receive about one-half of 
the cost of living increases that those 62 or 
older will receive. This constitutes blatant, 
outrageous age discrimination.
12. Federal retirees formerly received l%of 
their pensions added to the pensions at the 
time of retirement and two cost of living 
increases each year in order to at least fraction­
ally compensate them for the low pay that 
they had been given while working. Now 
they do not get the 1% add-on, and they only 
receive one cost of living increase per year.
13. Federal retirees have to pay income tax 
on every cent of their pensions once they get 
back what they paid into their pension fund. 
The money that they paid into the pension 
fund is not taxable, because taxes were paid 
on it by the retiree, when he/she was 
working.
14. In the past college graduates sought 
employment with the federal government 
mainly because of job security and retire­
ment at a comparatively young age on a 
good pension. Recent legislation has cut 
down federal job security while job security 
has been increased in the private sector by law 
and recent court decisions, and many private 
company pension plans provide benefits 
(including early retirement) that are equal 
to or more generous than those that are 
given by the federal Civil Service Retirement 
System.
Therefore, college graduates are much 
better off working in private enterprise with 
the chance of becoming one of the 
$1,000,000 a year corporation presidents or a 
quarter of a million a year vice president
than working in the federal Civil Service for» 
cheapskate pay and second-rate fringe 
benefits.
If a college graduate cannot find a good 
job in private enterprise upon graduation, 
he/she would do far better to work in a 
menial job in private enterprise until such 
time as. jae ran obtain a position in the pri­
vate sector that is commensurate with his 
education than take a job with the United 
States Government while looking for a good 
occupation with a private business. Other­
wise, he may ruin his future by taintir?S 
himself with federal employment, since it 
looked upon with great disdain by the busi­
ness community and the public in general, I 
In fact, for a number of years people have ¦ 
been thought to have disgraced themselves) 
if they have worked for the fedenfl 
government.
Frederick C. Stark, jj
Spending on 
defense not worthless
continued from page 17
tion, nutrition, consumer industries, eneij 
our environment, and health care”: 
government does indeed support these art 
Refer to point 4b. above. Also, you mayi 
to the U.S. Office of Management 
Budget and the Budget of the United, Ski\ 
Government. Furthermore, if we do 
spend money on defense (especially witht 
state of the art constandy changing), 
won’t have to worry about “We, the Peop 
because we’ll all be comrades.
Jim An
Senior!
Don t forget to buy
FLOWERS
for Valentines Day
At Skibo Grey Matter
9:30 — 5:30
Sponsored by activities fee
7ti

---------------------------------------------------

Celebrate Valentine’s Day with
VICTORIAN 
PHOTOGRAPHS
Dress up in old-fashioned clothes
for some old-fashioned fun!
Skibo Gray Matter 
Friday, February 17
11 AM — 3 PM
The photographer will take as many photos as 
time permits and all prints are free in celebra­
tion of Valentine's Day.
sponsored by AB Coffeehouse 
funded by Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Funnies.
JOE FRESHMANby Mark Levine
CART. KRON KITE AND REXby John Malley
(HAVING REPLACED THE ORIGINAL ADMiw/stkateRS 
WITH MY PRECIS/ON REPLICANTS; THINGS WILL 
GO MY U/AY WITHOUT RAISING- SUSPICIONS AMONG 
THE NATIVES'. AND WHEW MY MEOA-MATRix 
manipulator, cleverly DISGUISED AS THE 50-
called "u.c.c." mustNsewEd si osesirpa 
g233 BE. INVINCIBLE. 1 CAN'T WA/t!
BE SURE TO ERASE 
591 6Scl TSSh mntt . 
WE CAN'T AFFORD 
ANY MORE M/5TAKFS,
&00F BALL. 
UH "Click".,. 
GOOFi.. ber.. 
GOOFER .."CLICK 
&OPHER, 
OOPHER...
BACK AT SCIENCE.... 
OOPS... WEAN HALL
t uden ahsp 
IderolrijcWmgy
REX, BUT THERE ARE
NO INTtLllGENT 
RAI3BIT5 /N TH/5 WORLD. 
JUST KEEP YOUR.
EARS DOWN, AND 
IF ANY NATIVES ASK, 
I’LL PASS YOU OFF 
AS A FORIGEN G-RAD 
^STUDENT, OK?
J L
NO XNTELLIGEMT 
RABBITS?!. 
WHAT KiWDOF ’ 
UNIVERSE IS 
THIS PLACE?
JÉL
POINDEXTERby Don Beyer
wMAr do you waKt to do rüîF]
HEFEENp? TM gOgg&/ 7
THIS IS 4M0cr/pv* M6VOC. RtfN 
«WS wefbBF!
tera it rrmrtF/ rn/r wevn? «ewon ceimnes te«»-/
Across
I. lover's alleclion 
5. >>ck Frat 
8. (rrccn sionc
12. via nioutii
13. uncooked
14. Viix operating
system
15. TV soap is «>ne
16. enure
17. knowledge
18. valuable coals 
20. wealthy
23. religion 
24 women's movement 
25. charged particle 
28. ______ driver
32. bip ____
33. babies domain
35. ”... chevy to
the _____ ...”
36. finis
37. motionless
38. prayers end
39. Hawaiian precler
40. Phil’* toy
42. “over hill over
By RANDALL W. DEAN and PHILIP CASTLE
45. diminish 
49. beloved
52. no (per)
53. ______ up
54. prcck letter
56. Phil’s editor
57. born
58. ariirmativc
59. paths 
Down
1. Lih’.L cut*
2. British opposition
3. droop
4. hack and ______
5. Mid-Eastern
6. lolly
7. young hooter
8. Augustus was one
9. at oncc
10. ____ the darinp
11. old husbands
19. french house
20. Yank to a Brit
21. "Good Night _____
27. nothinp
29. heart of sleep
30. before nipht 
3*. Fnrl )Vml(
41. wol vcs home
43. "You ____ my
sunshine..."
44. spot 
46. bruins
47. La ______
48. To be <lr>
49. Dapper ___
50. direction
51. article 
55. exists
(brand)
Last week's solution:
iMfirlNlTia
WTSf TÆ
WIKI'
i ei^iT!
lMl 
1*101ICIOWI
H1ÊJ
wm&mv ijEuiT
TDIÏTR TïîEli 
ÎBHR ViFTEf.Nie mm
22. John Glenn is one
25. frozen water
dripping
26. orJinalc (abbrv)iSS
¥IT?1*IM1
MlCIMIDI

---------------------------------------------------

February 14, 1984—The Tartan—Page 21
Valentine 
Classifieds
i Dahl-ing, What does a beautiful civ-e look 
Tout of the lab? I would like to know. Let’s go out 
j\ x4382 —a true Gem.
ICA—Thanks for all the helping hands — 
L Ya FRED.
he one who brings a smile upon my face, 
he one who is in my heart and my dreams, 
he one I love.
- Valentines’ Day.
Les.
|C, “We’ll go dancin’ in the dark, walkin’ in the 
and reminiscing.” Looking forward to our 
lire together (I’d even follow you to Alaska!). I 
: you. AAP.
i, I have something better to give you for 
ntine’s Day than pretzels. Could it be everlast- 
Dtion, popcorn, love and video games? You
11 love you. Sweetums.
Kiltie, I love the way you rub those
> clean. I get chills just thinking about it. Be my 
Holly.
H Amazing eyes, I don’t even know your 
and I realize I must be one of very many 
jdrers, but I simply have to tell you: You are the 
t stunningly beautiful woman in the entire civ- 
l universe. AK, the adept Eagie.
! nicest senior iflastrator: Be my long 
Valentine and sweetheart forever. Love,
:: Your beauty and demeanor bring out 
symbol in me. Love, Washing Tons 
lumen t.
Hthe queen of Phoenix: Happy Valentine’s 
i and may you never lose that hair! Love —the 
f under the table.
fo LEF: From your Valentine’s delivery boy. Will 
||l do. Love, John.
my favorite skater: Want another kami- 
!i,| little girl? HAPPY VALENTINE’S DAY. 
the wrist breaker.
Matthew,
not so sunny day
you
then I haven’t 
*n a cloud. .
you for your 
it love and support.
Valentine’s Day and Anniversary. Chris.
(CB), Happy Valentine’s Day, 
etie. All my love to a graduate! Let’s 
1 up Friday dinner for the rest of our
j- Plc (CB)
>Y VALENTINE’S DAY to my sweetie
ihristopher! Love, Elizabeth.
fPY VALENTINE’S DAY to my favorite
ate, CARA!!!
^Y VALENTINE’S DAY to Joe, Paul, 
| ^en> West and Mark. Love E.
>Y VALENTINE’S DAY to my favorite 
Hearts, Jackie and Glenn!
Happy Valentines’ Day to the best 
per ever. HI miss you next year. Love, your
J>9 Sis.
Louise.. .The light above the bed is blink- 
¦e 0w>d all our time together and the future 
as good. Let’s make lots of noise tonight. I 
ou (and I’m glad I am again). Your little
| * S^eat 3rd floor at Delta Delta Delta.. .1 
|0U- thanks! Bambi.
|'n ^0se Pale green eyes, I see a beautiful, 
Sexy woman/child full of life and love. 
^ Uptown Girl, babe, but when will you 
P Ut’s explore our love soon. OBO MAN.
To all the girls who live in my frames (of reality!) 
Love ya all! — Joe Freshman.
to my white witch
i love you
Beak is.
your fuzzy bear
To AA, GB, GH, JS, MC, PC, PK and VG:
Best wishes upon graduation. Well mis ya!
— the “juniors”
The Graffiti Monster strikes again. (Yes, 
he’s everywhere.)
Neil G.
You are such a hunk, and I need you badly.
The Origins Girl
Boo — Its been 55 weeks for one and a year for 
the other. I hope there are many more for both.
To j.c., happy birthday — you’ve only just begun
— and so have we.
The Elves
To Konick: Have I got a Ukie girl for you... Eddy
Cantelope — I love you more with each passing 
day.
Sweetknees
Kitten, To the cutest, silliest, sexiest kitten ever. 
Whom I like to get my hands stuck to. Happy 
Valentines’ Day. Love, Widget.
C-Edog: You’ll always be my Tartan Pounder. 
HVD-J.
CSVILYVMWJM . . . rabbit . . . LUE . . . 
backgammon... Hill Street Blues... FrederickTown 
... Belton... bites... LC... wig^ey... wolverine... 
Molly ... long distance ... Sometimes... Break My 
Stride . .. two wonderful years!
To my sweet PhiDy-face: You mean more to 
me than words can say...My honey pie you’re 
drivin’ me crazy. Love, Your Ave Dago.
Marcy, You with the red coat and brown hair, 
this guy wants to know you better. Soc. Inf. 
reviews just don’t do it. Come to our party!!! Chris.
Pete (MWOP)-I love you. Thanks for every­
thing. Love, Linder.
Chris, You give new meaning to the word excel­
lent! What would I do without you? Love, Michele.
Mom, Dad, Beth, and Gram — Happy Val­
entine’s Day (belated) from Pittsburgh! I miss you 
all. Love, Patti.
To Peachum and Company: Happy Valen­
tine’s Day. Break a leg.
J.J.
To the Man I could have loved: It wasn’t 
meant to be. B.
S.K. you make my day - A.A.
To you — you know who you are, I love you! me.
Leg Biter: The thought of you biting my leg 
makes me a little crazy. Chomp, chomp. Love, leg 
bitee.
Hi Lizzie, I love you.
S.T., May our souls be in heaven before the devil 
knows we’re at Cathy’s. Love, McNorman—RM.
Creep: Happy Valentine’s Day. Mush Mush. 
Love, Creep.
To Patti Carlisle and Rosemary Hill—
Happy Valentine’s Day to the best family that ever 
came together. Love, Bambi.
The Sisters of Kappa Kappa Gamma love 
their new pledges.
Michele—Excellence doesn’t grow on trees! — 
Your Obesity.
Laura Bielanowski—Happy Valentine’s 
Day. Thanks for being there. I love you. 
Love, Bamboo.
H
J
SCA
H:
JLS
Jim Morrison—here’s a wish for Snake, Whis­
key and no quiche this Valentine’s Day. I LOVL 
YOU. How about a real shower?
S, B, F—Happy 6, Happy 12, the club misses you! 
I love you. A.
Loretta, Lynn, Lisa—Happy Valentine’s Day, 
roomies. It’s been a great senior year. Love, Patti.
John, You mean so much to me that I would even 
break my wrist for you. Happy Valentine’s Day! 
Love, Maria
G-Reg, As the bears in the cave say—“Waka 
Waka”! Luv U, Luv U very very much much!
Richard,
The Reason 
by Jan Strather 
You ask me why I love you, hon,
Since there are better men.
You set my thoughts awandering:
Why do I bve you, then?
It may be there are stronger arms,
There may be eyes as bright;
It may be there are gayer smiles 
And footsteps just as light.
It may be there are clearer minds 
Which I have never met,
And spirits that would kindle mine 
With wit that’s keener yet.
It may be there are gentler hearts 
And souls as deep and wise—
But it’s in the mingling of the brew 
That love’s secret savor bes.
Then not for body, mind, or heart,
But for their perfect blend,
I’ve loved you most, and love you still,
And shall, without an end.
Happy Valentine’s Day, Honey!
I love you, Nora
Andrew—My dear chap, I am reaffy enjoying our 
friendship! Why don’t you give me a cal? Cheerio, 
Duckie! Love, Queen Elizabeth II.
Victor—Sorry about our misunderstanding. 
Walking out in a huff is something HI try to do less 
often in the future. Fondly, A Flaky Chick.
Gary—Thanks for a wacky friendship, and for 
being a great Billy Joel dance partner and for put­
ting me on “mute” so much. You know how much 
I love that. Love, Carol A. Partments.
Lee—Congrats on the lost weight! Now IH have 
to make “salmondles” twice a week to help you 
gain it back! Fondly, The Tall Female Cook.
Paul—Much as we bicker, I know that deep down 
we both harbor a deeply ingrained respect for each 
other. Oh, quit laughing. Yours truly, CSV.
To Fuzzy-Face: Happy Valentine’s Day 
to my bestest and most favoritest and 
cutest friened in the whole world. With 
all my love, Ski-Baby.
Gregg and Cath: Thanks for everything! 
Happy V.D., seniors—Dossier.
Beth and J31: Happy V.D. to our senior 
designers!—Dossier.
H.E.—Even Islanders fanatics should have a 
happy V.D.—J.M.
Happy Valentine’s Day to the 11:30 “in” 
crowd at Salads!
Karen and Jill—with our undying love—Don 
and Mike.
I LOVE YOU SPUNKY! Happy Every 
Day is Valentine’s Day!
Cute guy working in Donner Mailroom on
Saturdays, I like your blue eyes. Your belt says 
“Tim.” I’ve exchanged smiles one day. I’d like to get 
to know you better. If you’re interested, place an 
ad here and let me know.
POOPSIE-BOOBALA: May you never lose 
your love for ice cream. My body thanks yours. 
Love, Moi.
NORMAN: A loaf of bread (fondue?) a jug of 
wine (three?) and thou. Let’s make some more 
special memories. I love you, ST. (bounce . . . 
smoooooch . . . drool).
NEIL-Dahling: You are sooc Anglo-Saxon. 
Ra(h)ther, Chip Chip Cheerio, What? —Your 
advisor.
VEE: You’re the greatest roomie! Since Mark’s 
not here: MMMMMM! (sent via ESP from him to 
you, throuc^i me). Love ya, Roomie.

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
Housing
Home away from home. Edgewood-Regent 
Square area. 10 minutes to campus. Large room, 
private bath, cable TV. Breakfast, kitchen and 
laundry, privileges. Off-street parking. Close to 
bus, shopping, and Parkway East. Quiet residen­
tial area. Must love pets. Be at home here; just $50 
per week. Phone 242-4611.
Immediate sublet available. Large room with pri­
vate shower and bath in beaudful, spacious 
home. Mature female person preferred. Call 
Jason or Samira 621-4624 or 682-3860.
Services
Identify your organization with a custom printed 
t-shirt or jersey. We silk-screen print shirts for the 
campus community. Call the T-Shirt Company 
at 578-3535 and speak to John for details. 
Typing/ Word Processing. Theses, term papers, 
manuscripts, resumes, letters, etc. (APA, MLA, 
and Turabian manuals strongly followed). Spe­
cializes in last-minute work. Call our 24-hour 
service 371-3657.
Attention CMU sunbathers! Surf’s up but our
prices aren’t! From just $109 — spend 7 fun-filled 
days in sunny Florida. Call for yourself or organ­
ize a small group and travel FREE! Great for 
clubs, too! Cal LUV TOURS 800-368-2006, ask 
for Annette.
Flying Fingers Word Processing. Business/aca­
demic papers, resumes, cover letters, etc. Editing 
included. Erika Van Sickel 731-8978.
Moving? We go in the snow. Call Second Mile 
Light Hauling. Ask for Vince 231-2766. 
Resumes: Have us typeset your resume for a pro­
fessional look. Fast and inexpensive. 521-8746. 
Easiest cleaning is cleaning you do not have to 
do. MINUTE-MAID SERVICES. Quick, effi­
cient service for 4!4 years. 682-3860.
Adoption: Loving, well-educated, financially 
secure couple desires white newborn. All 
expenses paid. Legal. Confidential. Call us col­
lect. 617-358-6354.
Jobs
Wanted: Success-oriented, self-motivated individ­
ual to work 2-4 hours per week placing and 
filling p>osters on campus. Earn $500-plus each 
school year. 1-800-243-6679.
Union Program Board of 
Duquesne University presents 
a lecture and media presentation on the 
life and death of Martin Luther King
"Who Slew the Dreamer?”
by Jeff Cohen
Monday, February 20 8 p.m.
Peter Mills Auditorium, Rockwell Hall 
Duquesne University 
Admission - $2.00 with college ID
Help wanted: 2 full-time positions available in 
sunny Santa Barbara, California. Lisp systems 
programmer — will be developing 68,000 Lisp. 
Knowledge engineer — will be developing expert 
system on Symbolics 3600. Contact Denison Bol- 
lay, inference technologies division of The Origi­
nal Computer Camp, Inc. 800-235-6965.
Full tíme, part time work as bodyguard. 
$10/hour. Minimum 6 foot jock types preferred. 
More information call 746-4565.
Hundreds of careers at the technological cutting 
edge. Silicon Valley Jobguides $4.95. Sunbelt 
Indexing, 2615 South Mission, Tucson, Arizona, 
85713.
Hundreds of careers at the technological cutting 
edge. Silicon Valley Jobguides $4.95. Sunbelt 
Indexing, 2615 South Mission, Tucson, Arizona, 
85713.
Hundreds of careers at the technological cutting 
edge. Silicon Valley Jobguides $4.95. Sunbelt 
Indexing, 2615 South Mission, Tucson, Arizona, 
85713.
For Sale/Wanted
Speaker Bargain! Powerful, efficient custom- 
built 3-way stereo speakers. $175/pair or best 
offer. Call 422-7233 evenings.
Is it true you can buy jeep>s for $44 through the 
U.S. government? Get the facts today! Call 312- 
742-1142 ext. 3401-A.
Moving sale — everthing must go, including: 
queen size bed, sleeper sofa, TV, chairs, desk, 
kitchen table, and much more. Call Alan at 363- 
5436 (mornings are best; keep on trying).
Piano, Baldwin Acrosonic, excellent condition, 
walnut, ivory keys, 421-3740.
Auto components, speakers and VCR’s — (0p 
brands, best prices in town, full warranties, free i 
delivery. Call John, 327-1179, 327-5868.
Clubs
Help end the arms race. Join the Univei 
Lobby to end the arms race — March 7. Tofi^l 
out what you can do and leam, attend 
row’s meeting of the CMU Peace Alliance. 5p> 
in Hunt Multipuipose Room. Students, faculftj 
and staff are welcome.
AIESEC, the International Association of; 
dents in Economics and Business Manag 
will hold its weekly meeting, Wednesday; 
in Skibo Room 11. Students of all majc 
invited to participate in AIESEC’s intemati 
exchange and management develoD 
programs.
Care about the right to life? Like to get invo 
Join the CMU Association for Life.
Turton at x4826 or Pat Falco at x8618 fom 
information. Remember: “Rest Easy, 
Already Been Bom.”Yod
General
PREGNANT?
And you didn't nwmn to be?
For a free pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call
Birthright at 621 -1988
Women — over 25, in school, new careen 
demic Bag Ladies meet over lunch 12-1 Thu 
days, 4515 Forbes. For information: 682-6886.1 
The National Foundation for Ileitis and 
(NFIC) will be holding an educational meel 
at West Penn Hospital’s School of Nursing« 
Thursday, Feb. 16 at 7:30 p.m. The meei 
panel of doctors will discuss the pjsychol 
aspects of inflammatory bowel disease, 
further information contact Joe at x4589. 
Interested in graduate school? Dean Chrisi 
will present a lecture for senior engineering 
science students on how to choose a grad 
and available financial aid options. He will a 
give a timetable for juniors thinking of 
school. The talk will be held Wednesday, Fel 
ary 15, 4:30 p.m., in Skibo 45. Sponsored byT 
Beta Pi.
Byzantine Catholic Mass. Divine Liturgy is 
brated at 7 p.m. on Saturday in Skibo 39. 
Byzantine Catholics and anyone interested in 
eastern rite church is invited to join us.SATURDAYS
W W W 
& & & < 
? ? ? . ?
? ? ? _
? ‘
w
& ^ 4
4& 
* <
c7VlOREWOOD QARDENÍ
proudly" announces 
T/¿e Qraqd Opening
of
* * w V V %> ? ????<>?<? ? ? ? € ? ? 4>
? ? ? tWt « ^ ? 
?4 «>4? ?
Unique Concept ill University" Cuisine!
MARCH 3. 1984 
6 ~9pmive^luds^

---------------------------------------------------

heater
ugh Feb. 18 “Oh Dad, Poor Dad, Mamma’s 
I mg You in the Closet and I’m Feeling So Sad” 
\ithur Kopit. Theatre in the Square, Wilkin’s 
|hool Community Center, Charleston 8c S. 
I addock Aves., Regent Square. Fri. 8c Sat. 8
¦ Sun. 2 p.m. 241-7474.
lirough Feb. 19 “Da” by Hugh Leonard. Pgh.
¦ iboratory Theatre, 420 N. Craig St., Oakland. 
Iiu.-Sun 8:15 p.m.; Sun. 2:30 p.m. 621-2876. 
|b. 15-Mar. 3 “Legend of Lovers” by Jean 
liouilh. CMU Drama Dept. Kresge Theatre, 
lr\. Wed.-Sat. 8 p.m.; Sun. 2 8c 8 p.m. 578-2407. 
15.16-Mar. 11 “Maybe I’m Doing It Wrong: A 
lusical Revue of Randy Newman’s Music.” 
Ity Theatre Company, Sennott 8c S. Bouquet
Oakland. Thu.-Sat. 8 p.m.; Sun. 7 p.m. 624-
lb. 17-Apr. 1 “Nora/Julie” by Ingmar Berg- 
|an. Pgh- Public Theater, Allegheny Square, 
l31th Side. Tue., Wed. 8c Fri. 8 p.m.; Thu. 8c Sat. 
li; 8 p.m.; Sun. 2 8c 7 p.m. 321-9800. 
lb. 19 “Inclines,” performance art, with Bron- 
H » Rucker (actress 8c playwright) 8c Rick Russo 
imposer). Pgh. Center for the Arts, Fifth 8c 
ady Aves., Shadyside. 3:30 p.m.
Pgh. Opera, Heinz Hall, Penn Ave., Downtown. 
8 p.m. 281-0912.
Feb. 17 .38 Special, 8c Huey Lewis. Civic Arena, 
Downtown. 7:30 p.m. 642-2062.
Feb. 17 “Italian Arias 8c Ensembles” with 1983 
EPCASO members (Ezio Pinza Council for 
American Singers of Opera) 8c Enza Ferrari 
(piano). Stephen Foster Memorial Theatre, 
Forbes Ave., Oakland. 8:30 p.m. 624-4126.
Feb. 17 8c 18 Three Dog Night. Holiday House, 
3755 Wm. Penn Hwy., Monroeville. 8:30 8c 11:30 
p.m. 824-4000.
Feb. 18 “Hail Britannia!” by the River City Brass 
Band. Carnegie Music Hall, Forbes Ave., Oak­
land. 8 p.m. 322-6821.
Feb. 18 Si Kahn 8c Cathy Fink. Kresge Audit., 
Carlow Coll., Fifth Ave., Oakland. 8 p.m. 765- 
3007.
Feb. 18 Senior recital: Linda Braun (voice). 
Alumni Concert Hall, CFA. 8 p.m.
Feb. 19 “Great Performers Series: The Romeros.” 
Pgh. Symphony Society. Heinz Hall, Penn Ave., 
Downtown. 8 p.m. 281-5000.
Feb. 19 CMU Philharmonic, conductor Wemer 
Torkanowsky. Carnegie Music Hall, Forbes 
Ave., Oakland. 8 p.m.
Films
usic
:b. 14 Vienna Recorder Ensemble. Including 
J »naissance 8c baroque music 8c 20th-century 
lerature. Wm. Pitt Union Audit., Fifth Ave., 
lakland. 8:30 p.m. 624-4126.
| ;b. 14 &: 15 Neil Diamond. Civic Arena, Down- 
Iwn. 8 p.m. 642-2062. 
fb. 14 fc 15 Luther Vandross, 8c Debarge. Stanley 
fieatre, Seventh Ave., Downtown. 7:30 p.m. 
lb. 15 Gene Bertoncini (guitar). Music School 
l?cital Hall, Duquesne Univ., Downtown. 8 
pu a.
Feb. 16 & 18 “Romeo and Juliet” by Gounod.
Feb. 14-Mar. 4 “Juried Selection from the 1983 
Three Rivers Arts Festival Video Exhibition.” 
Video Exhibition Room, Carnegie Museum of 
Art, Forbes Ave., Oakland. Continuous showing: 
Tue.-Sat. 10 a.m.-5 p.m.; Sun. 1-5 p.m. 622-3283. 
Feb. 14 “Robin and Marion” with Sean Connery 
8c Audrey Hepburn (UK 1976). Pgh. Playhouse, 
Craft Ave., Oakland. 7:30 8c 9:30 p.m.
Feb. 14 “The Holy Land: In the Footsteps of 
Abraham” (Travel Adventure Series). Carnegie 
Music Hall, 4400 Forbes Ave., Oakland. 1 8c 7 
p.m.
Feb. 15 “Under Fire” with Nick Nolte 8c Gene 
Hackman (1983). Pgh. Playhouse, Craft Ave., 
Oakland. 7:30 8c 9:40 p.m.
Feb. 16 “The Thin Man” with William Powell 8c 
Myma Loy (1934). Doherty Hall 2210. 6,8 8c 10 
p.m.
Feb. 16 “Sawdust and Tinsel” [or “The Naked 
Night”] by Ingmar Bergman (Sweden 1953). 
Pgh. Playhouse, Craft Ave., Oakland. 7:30 8c 9:30 
p.m.
Feb. 16 “Germany: A New Look” (Travel Lec­
ture Series). Soldiers 8c Sailors Memorial Hall, 
Fifth Ave. 8c Bigelow Blvd., Oakland. 1 8c 8 p.m.
621-4253.
Feb. 16 “Bremer Freiheit” by Rainer Wemer Fass­
binder (Germany). English subtitles. Baker Hall 
231. 7 p.m.
Feb. 17 “Dark Crystal” by Jim Henson 8c Frank 
Oz (1982). Doherty Hall 2210. 6, 8 8c 10 p.m. 8c 
midnight.
Feb. 17 “Victor/Victoria” with Julie Andrews 8c 
Robert Preston, by Blake Edwards (1982). Pgh. 
Playhouse, Craft Ave., Oakland. 7:30 8c 9:50 p.m. 
Feb. 17 “Persona” by Ingmar Bergman (Sweden 
1966). English subtides. Carnegie Lecture Hall, 
Panther Hollow Dr., Oakland. 8 p.m.
Feb. 17 & 18 “The Man Who Left His Will on 
Film” by Nagisa Oshima (1970). Pgh. Film- 
Makers, 205 Oakland Ave., Oakland. 8 8c 10 p.m. 
681-5449.
Feb. 18 “Risky Business” with Tom Cruise 
(1983). Doherty Hall '2210. 6,8 8c 10 p.m. 8c 
midnight.
Feb. 18 “The Year of Living Dangerously” with 
Mel Gibson 8c Sigourney Weaver (Australia 
1982). Pgh. Playhouse, Craft Ave., Oakland. 7:30, 
9:30 8c 11:30 p.m.
Feb. 18 “The Warriors” by Walter Hall (1979). 
Carnegie Museum of Art Theater, Forbes Ave., 
Oakland. 8 p.m.
Feb. 19 “Dirty Harry” with Clint Eastwood 
(1971). Doherty Hall 2210. 6, 8 8c 10 p.m.
Feb. 19 “Jane Eyre” with Joan Fontaine, Orson 
Welles 8c Elizabeth Taylor (1944). Pgh. Play­
house, Craft Ave., Oakland. 7:30 8c 9:30 p.m. 
Feb. 19 “The Long Goodbye” with Elliot Gould, 
by Robert Altman (1973). Pgh. Film-Makers, 205 
Oakland Ave., Oakland. 2 8c 8 p.m. 681-5449.
Feb. 19 “Lakes of Switzerland” (Travel Adven­
ture Series). Carnegie Music Hall, 4400 Forbes 
Ave., Oakland. 2:30 p.m.
Feb. 20 “Cat People” with Malcolm McDowell 8c 
Nastassia Kinski (1982). Pgh. Playhouse, Craft 
Ave., Oakland. 7:30 8c 9:30 p.m.
Dance
Feb. 16-19 “Eleventh Commandment Suite and 
Graduation Ball” by Roy Cunningham. Ameri­
can Dance Ensemble. Pgh. Playhouse Theatre 
Center, Craft Ave., Oakland. Thu.-Sat. 8 p.m.; 
Sun. 3 8c 7:30 p.m. 621-4445.
Exhibits
Through Feb. 19 “Highlights from thi Photo­
graphy Collection.” Gallery 10, Carnegie Insti­
tute, Forbes Ave., Oakland. Tue.-Sat. 10 a.m.-5 
p.m.; Sun. 1-5 p.m. 622-3283.
Through Feb. 26 “Italian Portrait Drawings 
from North American Collections.” Univ. Art 
Gallery, Frick Fine Arts Bldg., Oakland. Tue.- 
Sat. 10 a.m.-4 p.m.; Sun. 2-5 p.m. 624-4118. 
Through Feb. 26 Richard Devlin. Associated 
Artists of Pgh. Gallery, Pgh. Center for the Arts, 
Fifth 8c Shady Aves., Shadyside.
Feb. 14-Apr. 29 “Arctic Plant Life: Adaptations 
for Survival.” Changing Exhibits Gallery, Carne­
gie Museum of Natural History, Forbes Ave., 
Oakland. Tue.-Sat. 10 a.m.-5 p.m.; Sun. 1-5 p.m. 
622-3283.
Feb. 14-Apr. 29 “Natural World Photographic 
Exhibition.” CMNH Gallery, Carnegie Museum 
of Natural History, Forbes Ave., Oakland. Tue.- 
Sat. 10 a.m.-5 p.m.; Sun. 1-5 p.m. 622-3283.
Feb. 18-Apr. 21 “Fairfield Porter (1907-1975): 
Realist Painter in an Age of Abstraction.” Galler­
ies 12 8c B, Carnegie Museum of Art, Forbes Ave., 
Oakland. Tue.-Sat. 10 a.m.-5 p.m.; Sun. 1-5 p.m.
622-3283.
SAVE $20. TO $30.FABULOUS 
SAVINGS ON
ORDER YOUR COLLEGE RING 
NOW TO RECEIVE IT PRIOR TO 
GRADUATION.
DATE: Feb. 15th
& 16th 
inmAR Baker Hall
TIME: 10 to 4:00
Get Going.The sooner you start, the sooner you’ll get to the top.
There are many reasons for you to consider joining Tandem 
Computers. We pioneered the field of fault-tolerant computing. 
And with our new TXP system, we've taken on-line transaction 
processing further than anyone had imagined. Our management 
philosophy of de-centralized decision-making and shared responsi­
bility has been cited as an example of corporate excellence.
But for the graduating student, the best reason to join Tandem 
is that your career will get off to a running start. Like everyone 
else at Tandem, you will be given the responsibility to do your best, 
with the expectation that you’ll contribute. It's demanding, but 
ultimately more challenging and rewarding.
Technical Degree Interviews —
March 2, 1984
Tandem representatives will be on campus to interview stu­
dents about to graduate with applicable Bachelor's. Master's, or 
Doctoral degrees for positions in Hardware and Software Develop­
ment, MIS and Manufacturing. Sign up now for your interview in 
your Placement Office.
If you are unable to meet with our representatives, please 
send your resume to Tandem Computers Inc.. College Relations, 
19333 Vallco Parkway, Cupertino, CA 95014. We are an equal 
opportunity employer, m f h v.
DEPOSfT REQURED: $15.009
HCBFF JONES
MrMofl oi CmrnaUon CompanyMakers of TXR the most powerful on-line computer in business today
Trademark ofTan<lem Computers Inc.

---------------------------------------------------

Collect them
For A FREE Pizza!
Domino’sPizza
Every time you order a 
pizza from Domino’s Pizza, 
clip the value dot tab and 
save it.*
Save four value dot tabs 
and get your next ^"'one- 
item pizza FREE.
Savefiv# value dot tabs 
and get your next 16” one- 
item pizza FREE.
Expires: 4/30/84
Redeem them at any 
participating Domino's 
Pizza in your area. Good 
for a limited time only
Call Us!681-1700
310 N. Craig St.
Hours:
11 am-2am Sun.-Thurs. 
11 am-3am.Fri. & Sat.
Our drivers carry less 
than $20.00.
Limited delivery area.
® 1983 Domino's Pizza Inc
DOMINO’SPIZZADELIVERSFREE
TM
