The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 84, Number 2, September 13, 1983.
photo by Todd Prario
This antique was one of many cars seen at the Grand Prix races held Saturday, September 3 at Schenley Park. For more photos, see Sports.
Commutation Center
Six members quit software staff
By BOB AARHUS
Special for the Tartan
Six members of the Computations Center 
software staff resigned this summer after 
experiencing what one staff member 
referred to as “a certain measure of frustra­
tion” with the administration.
Staff members Phil Almquist, Mike 
Inners, Glenn Marcy, Cheryl Egeland, Dave 
King, and Associate Director for Software 
Joann Ordille left their jobs after finding the 
administration reluctant to deal with prob­
lems they encountered in their Computa­
tions Center work.
The central problem which prompted the 
staff’s departure was the lack of time alloted 
by the administration for the completion of 
a networking project, resulting in the over-
By PAULINE WEN
Tartan News Editor 
"We’re making progress on the academic 
side,” said CMU President Richard M. Cyert 
about the Teaching Center. He is “very 
pleased” with the progress being made on 
the Teaching Center, which was formed last 
year to help faculty improve their teaching 
techniques.
^ “We are going to be increasingly acu vein 
emphasizing the Teaching Center,” com­
mented Cyert.
“The biggest push is on teaching through 
the Teaching Center. We want to emphasize 
improvements in teaching. It is very 
important.”
We are very lucky to have Ted Fenton 
heading [the Teaching Center],” he added.
We will condnue to progress on the 
computer system. [There will be] more per­
sonal computers on campus. Progress is 
developing on software for the network.”
* Cyert commented that he doesn’t feel the 
other colleges are being overshadowed by 
the recent publicity about computers.
working of the staff “without recognition or 
compensation” for their efforts. “The inte­
rim Personal Computer project has been 
very badly planned and organized; because 
of that, computing at CMU will suffer over 
the next few years until the ITC project is 
finished,” said former staff member Phil 
Almquist. The lack of time and money to 
produce a high-quality project, plus what 
Almquist called a “perpetual shortage of 
people power,” made the administration’s 
deadline unreasonable.
“We had signs on the horizon that sup­
port given to Computations Center was 
going to get less and less... we were worried 
about money and administrative support 
for things such as space and time,” noted 
Dave King, former staff member now with
“The University as a whole has been get­
ting much publicity,” he said.
Cyert thinks that the biggest problem 
now is getting enough money to continue 
improvements on the Physical Plant, field 
house, Mellon Institute, a student union, 
and the Bureau of Mines.
When asked about tuition going up to 
$8400 next year, Cyert said it was needed to 
“continue to have high qualifications for 
faculty and education.”
What if there is another protest?
“I will deal with it in the same way. I 
won’t allow any damage to be done,” said 
Cyert.
He felt that last year’s cookie incident and 
tuition protest was “orderly, fine.”
“The cookies didn’t bother me. A small 
percentage were involved.”
Cyert would like to see The Tartan take up 
a cause, such as lessening the use of alcohol 
at CMU.
“Most acts of vandalism stem from alco­
hol,” he explained.
the ITC project. He felt that it was a “good 
time to move.. .life in Computations Center 
was going to be bad for a few years.”
Also at issue was pay, as many former staff 
members felt they were not being paid in 
comparison with other “equivalent jobs” in 
software programming. The promise of bet­
ter opportunities and more interesting work 
than “keeping the DEC-20s running’’ out­
side of CMU casued several staff mmbers to 
submit resignations. Others felt they were 
not treated professionally, and little weight 
was placed on their technical input concern­
ing the networking projects. All members 
felt that the administration failed to deal 
with their problems, even though several 
meetings occurred between Director of Aca­
demic Computing Bob Cape and Vice Pro­
vost for Computing and Planning Doug 
Van Houweling to discuss problems such as 
pay and staffing. “The staff held three meet­
ings. . . nothing seemed to be coming out of 
it,” commented Glenn Marcy. Although 
there were attempts to increase salaries after 
the first of the resignations were submitted, 
the action was “too little, too late.’’
The impact of the resignations will be felt 
primarily where the DEC-20s are concerned. 
“Because of the resignations, especially in 
the systems software group, Computations 
Center won’t be quite as responsive to cus­
tomize and tailor certain tools and pro­
grams,” noted Cape. Although the Personal 
Computer project will not be direcdy 
affected, the DEC system will not be 
debugged or specialized as greatly as in the 
past. “My concern is supporting w’nat we 
have,” said Carolyn Cbuncill, Computa­
tions Center Operations Manager.
Many of the staff members were not 
enthusiastic about leaving their C-MU jobs. 
They were a close group, a factor which 
contributed to their mutual decisions to 
depart. Phil Almquist remarked. It used to 
be a nice place to work, but not anymore.”
Maloney new 
counselor
By FRANK E. ORGAIN
Tartan Staffwriter
Dave Maloney is now an associate direc­
tor of Alumni Relations, in addition to 
being an academic advisor in the college of 
Humanities and Social Sciences. He had 
come to Camegie-Mellon University eight 
years ago to revive the basketball team as its 
coach.
It’s too early to tell how much Maloney 
will miss coaching, but he feels the program 
is in good hands with coach Larry 
Anderson.
As an academic advisor, Maloney is 
assigned about fifty sopohomores in his col­
lege. He helps these undergraduates select 
courses, decide on majors, and add and drop 
courses. He also advises students on their 
academic problems, but says, “most of the 
students at Camegie-Mellon University are 
highly motivated,” so that he needs to give 
little of that advice.
These days, three-fifths of his time goes to 
his alumni duties while the rest is devoted to 
his advisory post, a job he’s had for six years. 
His major new responsibilities include 
working with sleeping bag campaigns, pro­
ducing a resume book of Camegie-Mellon 
University students for distrubution to the 
Board of Trustees, alumni, and over 150 com­
panies, obtaining internships, often for jun­
iors, and working with the Carnegie Merit 
Scholarship Program for entering freshmen 
in the College of Humanities and Social 
Sciences.
Maloney says he is proud of being a part 
of Camegie-Mellon University. He says, 
“It’s one of the finest universities in the 
country.”
He feels that each college here constantly 
strives to become stronger. The result, he 
says, is that, “you [the student] have a skill,” 
upon graduation. He continues: “The com­
bining of professional majors with discipli­
nary majors has made Camegie-Mellon 
unique in its approach to liberal arts 
education.”
His major goal in dealing with the 
alumni of Camigie-Mellon University is to 
try to bring the University highlights to 
them even though they are no longer on 
campus.
Maloney wants the alumni to be aw'are of 
happenings in each of the five colleges. But, 
for instance, he wants to spread information 
continuad on paga 4
In this issue
Editorial
Farewell, Computation Center .... page 2
News
CMU summer programs.....................page 4
Enrollment increases ......................page 4
Features
Take off (seriously)..............................page 7
Think you’re psychic?.........................page 8
Entertainment
All the best in theatre choices.... page 11 
Iron Maiden still tough as ever .. page 11 
Sport
Klausing third best in nation .... page 13
Tartans on TV...................................page 13
Chico picks again............................page 14
Tartans down Dukes....................... page 15
Cyert "pleased” by progress

---------------------------------------------------

Malonelywc
Who's running the Computation Center?
Who is keeping the computers running at 
CMU?
It’s not the Computation Center — most of 
their software staff, the people who maintain 
the programs and keep the systems up, quit 
this summer, and the Comp Center doesn’t 
have anyone to replace them.
There are two issues the administration has 
to examine. First, people have to be found now 
to take over these jobs. Second, the administra­
tion needs to make some changes in the work 
environment and management so new people 
don’t leave as well.
Right now, no one seems to be taking 
charge of software maintenance. Already some 
students have noticed an increase in the prob­
lems with Comp Center systems, and there is 
no one to fix these problems. The administra­
tors in Warner Hall are concentrating more on
the ITC than on the Comp Center, and there is 
only so much work the remaining staff can 
handle.
But how did this problem come about in the 
first place? What could cause the majority of 
the software staff to leave?
The administration claims that the staff 
members had different reasons for leaving, and 
that there was no common problem all the 
staff was facing. The staff members tell a differ­
ent story: they talk about being overworked 
and underpaid, and mismanagement of the 
Comp Center and computing at CMU in 
general.
It is hard to believe that so many members of 
the software staff would leave for independent 
reasons, and all within two months.
The ITC is in the news; the Comp Center 
isn’t. The ITC is advancing; the Comp Center
is stagnating. In three years everything the 
Comp Center is working on will be phased 
out. It’s no wonder the administration isn’t 
woking too hard to keep the people who work 
there happy.
We don’t know the details of contracts, or 
exacdy what relations were like between the 
staff and managers. We do think there was a 
problem, and in an area as wide-reaching as 
computing we can’t afford to have problems.
The administration almost abandoned the 
Comp Center with the formation of the IBM 
project, which won’t be completed for three 
more years, but until the project is finished, 
everyone on this campus has to rely on the 
Computation Center.
It’s time for the administration to go back to 
the Comp Center now and solve the problems, 
before computing totally breaks down at 
CMU.
Don't mislead students by misnaming police
By Orpheus Allison
It is considered to be a sign of respect 
when another person who is unknown 
greets us with the correct title. Titles also 
serve to delineate the position of various 
members of society. A doctor 
addressed as Doctor is a person 
who is to be given respect. 
For many of us, our heroes 
have at one time or another been police 
officers: witness, if you will, the number 
of television programs concerning some 
aspect of police work, shows such as 
“Adam-12,” “Kojak,” and “Hill Street 
Blues.”
However, after examining the latest 
“Word,” it seems that the office of Stu­
dent Affairs does not understand that this 
community of 6000 people is serviced by a 
full-fledged police force. Instead it is 
referred to as the Security office. This is in 
senous error. It implies that we do not
have police but rather security guards 
who know litde or nothing about polic­
ing a community. If this were true, all of 
us should be shaking in our shoes. How­
ever, it is not true. We do have police 
officers who are ready and willing to 
serve all members of the campus 
community.
The person who answers the phone 
says “Campus Police,” not “Campus 
Security.” While our officers are in uni­
form, their title is Police Officer. Yes, 
there is also a security section that is 
under the campus police office’s jurisdic­
tion. However, that is a highly special­
ized unit that is hired out to different 
departments.
Dean Cox does an admirable job editing 
the “Word.” However, to be so under­
sighted as to cause the campus commun­
ity to fear for its safety by miswording the
title of the Campus Police Office is dan­
gerous to all of us.
If we were to have a security office, it 
would be much more difficult to file the 
police reports for the stolen property and 
the assaults that take place on campus. 
Our police officers are legally entitled to 
take reports for the CMU community. 
Therefore, they can handle the items that 
come up on university property and see to 
it that all proper police work is per­
formed. Unlike a security guard’s, the 
arrests made by our officers do not have to 
be guaranteed by outside officers.
When one has been assaulted one does 
not ask for the security guard, one asks for 
the police. One expects the police to come 
to help when somebody has walked off 
with a valuable piece of property. The 
University has a Police Department. To 
speak only of the Department of Security
Time management is important but difficult
is wrong. Please have the respect to real- | 
ize that our officers are police officers and 
not security guards. Also, have respect for i 
the intelligence of our student body. We 
have been taught that police officers are 
there to help us if needed. We have not 
been taught that security guards are there ’ 
to help us though that may be true.
For the freshmen, the Office of Cam- 1 
pus Police is dedicated to your safety and" 1 
security. There is an error in your ! 
“Word.” For all of the instances for 
which you would call the police, the cam- i 
pus policc office is ready to assist you. 
Hopefully for next year’s class, there will 
not be this editorial undersight. Hope- | 
fully, the men and women of the Campus j 
Police Office will receive the respect that J 
they warrant.
Orpheus Allison is a sophomore in j 
HirSS and is a columnist for The Tartan.
By Wendy Scott 
I hate writing at deadline. It shows poor 
planning, lack erf commitment, and mis­
management all around. So here I sit at 
11:00 am, Friday September 9 — writing at/
deadline. Again.
Have you ever been to one of 
those “time-management” 
seminars? Or maybe had a ses­
sion on it in a class? They’re incredible. You 
get this sheet of graph paper with the little 
empty boxes corresponding to each hour of 
the day. The idea is to plan your time by 
filling in different boxes with different activ­
ities and then follow this schedule. Sounds 
real easy, right?
Right. It’s tough enough for me to make 
it to all my classes, let alone to all the other 
shish-ka-bibble that invariably fills my sche­
dule. Half the time I forget to schedule 
meals, so I have to break my itinerary in 
order to eat. Plus, I am always late and that 
accumulates during the day. If I oversleep 15 
minutes then I’m 20 minutes late for my first 
class, 30 minutes late for my second class, 
and so on.
Finally, the last major difficulty in sche­
duling is the inevitable double-booking. 
You know the story: every club and organi­
zation you belong to meets on Tuesday 
night at 7 pm. That’s when scheduling 
beocmes really difficult, because you have to 
make choices. Which is more important, the 
frat rush party, the Skydiving Club meeting, 
or studying for that test tomorrow morning? 
Time-management is not as easy as those
little schedules imply.
Those seminars are useful, though. If 
nothing else they make us realize how many 
things we have to do. In general, I think 
schedules are more helpful when they are 
used as reminders and guidelines. If I plan to 
do statistics at 2 p.m., psychology at 4 p.m., 
and economics at 10 p.m., then I’m more 
likely to remember to actually do all three; 
although I may do them at a completely 
different time than that which I had 
planned.
One problem with those schedules occurs 
when the opposite happens. When someone 
views those little boxes as writ in stone, then 
he tends to become rigid in his use of time. 
Personally, I’m more likely to lose mine 
under my desk than to become over­
disciplined in following it. Still, some peo­
ple become quite inflexible about their time. 
I have known a few people who scheduled all 
of the time they spent with their friends. 
Doesn’t sound so bad?
Suppose Jane had a catastrophe on Tues­
day but wasn’t “on the schedule” until Sat­
urday? It is important to be flexible. I 
haven’t yet figured out how to be both disci­
plined in following a schedule and yet flexi­
ble about it, but I know it is possible because 
I have friends who manage it.
Typically, the individuals I know who 
balance discipline with flexibility effectively 
have a strong awareness of their priorities. If 
the most important thing in my life is eating 
then I will tend to be both disciplined in 
eating at the scheduled times and flexible
about finding additional time in which to 
eat. Knowing one’s priorities helps to guide 
scheduling. The reverse is also true: you can 
discover what your priorities are by examin­
ing how you spend your time.
It’s also important to leave empty space in 
a schedule: free time, sit and stare at the wall 
time, pig out on Pop-Tarts with your room­
mate time. If time isn’t available for such 
randomness, then something akin to over­
load happens. If I don’t do something 
unplanned and unproductive every few 
days, then after a week or so my brain rebels, 
invariably the night before a stats test or 
some other major event. It’s better to choose 
one’s mini-breakdown times than to just let 
them happen.
So I guess there is a point to those little 
box schedules. I’ve given up trying to follow 
them exactly. Still, some faithfulness to 
them is helpful. I’m scheduled to write this 
column on Monday nights, and here I am
Opinion Policy
Editorials appear at the top of page two, and are the 
official opinion of The Tartan Editorial Board. 
Columns are the opinions of individual authors who 
are usually on The Tartan staff, but the opinions are 
not necessarily those of The Tartan Editorial Board. 
Letters to the editor are opinions of individual authors 
who are usually members of the University commun­
ity. A letter intended for publication must be signed and 
include the writer’s address and plume number for 
i>erification. Names will be withheld upon request. 
The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject any 
letter. .......................- • * - - •
writing on Friday. Mmm. Well, next week 
I’ll be more disciplined.
Well, maybe.
Wendy Scott is a senior majoring in Psy­
chology and is a columnist for The Tartan.
usruyeoyAc
Editor in Chief...............................Monica Gellio j
Managing Editor...............................Gregg Bossier
Business Manager.............................. Kathy Wasch
News Editor...................................Pauline Wen
Features Editor.........................Pauline Kramer
Entertainment Editor.....................Susan Petrie
Sports Editor...................................Ric Medrow ,
Photography Editor...................Steve Winawer
Production Manager.............Carolyn Speranza
Ad Manager...................................Bonnie Topf |
Typesetting Manager.....................Patti Carlisle
Art Director.............................Michael Sussman 1
Contributing Editor...........-.. Vincent Guinto^
Assoc News Editor .... Christopher Johnston
Assistant News Editor.....................Doug Blair
Asst Photo Editor.................................Joe Kuefler
Asst. Production Mgr.............................Bob Aarhus
Production Staff: D. Eggen, N. Flagg, A. Ghali,
E. Gialamas, M. Gulotta, G Lewis, M. Pilewski. 
M. Reisinger, M. Rivas, S. Safier, T. Stewart, S. 
Volan, M. Zillzer.
Copyright © 1983 by The Tartan. The Editorial Board 
reserves the right to withhold from publication anv 
copy it deems unfit for publication. Editorial Offices: 
Skibo 50. (412) 578-2111. Business Offices: Skibo 52, 
(412) 578-2112. 24 hour phone, (412) 578-21 IS. Mailing 
address; Box 17, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh PA 15213 * 
Funded by die Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

September 13, 1983—The Tartan—Page 3
Letters
Administration has no right to censor movies
Editor
I have been informed of an outrage which 
has recently occurred on our campus. It 
deals with what is on those litde movie cards 
everyone seems to be carrying around these 
days. On the surface, the litde “T.B.A.” in 
the Saturday Films slot of November 12 
looks like nothing special. Perhaps some 
minor conflict had not been resolved when 
these cards went into print. This should not 
be a major concern . . .
But it is a major concern! It was brought 
up at a recent meeting of our Student Senate 
that this time slot had been previously desig­
nated for four showings of the film Deep 
Throat of Linda I^ovelace fame. The film 
was set to run as scheduled when the admin­
istration decided that it was time to put its 
foot down. That’s right! Our movies are 
now being censored by Warner Hall. The 
students are not only being left out of the 
decision-making process, but the adminis­
tration was hoping to “sweep the entire 
issue under the rug.”
Let me clearly state that the main issue 
here is not one of pornography, but rather 
one of censorship and one of freedom. 
Nearly every member of Senate was furious 
upon hearing about this repression. I hon­
estly anticipate a similar reaction from the 
campus in general. You be the judge ... if 
the people over in Warner Hall will allow it.
Jeffrey L. Kenausis 
Math ’86
Posters insult women
Editor
Rush has brought out the usual prolifera­
tion of
XYZ PARTY I
FRESHMEN AND WOMEN ONLY 
signs. It is obvious why fraternities seek out 
freshmen as new pledges; it is equally 
obvious why they seek out any females 
while excluding any males. What is less 
obvious is why such attitudes and signs are 
tolerated by the women of CMU.
While such attitudes do result in open 
doors, free beer, etc. for the women, it not 
only places them in an inferior role, but 
encourages the men to see that role asaccep-
Energy shortage
table. If women desire equal treatment after 
college, it would be perhaps wiser not to 
condone, encourage, or exploit such atti­
tudes over the four years of college.
Yours sincerely,
Ben WiseReagan misinterprets plane shooting
By Stuart Shapiro
There’s nothing like a good old fashioned 
international incident to start the year off 
right. Since everyone else has commented on 
the “Korean airline massacre,” I guess I 
might as well join the crowd.
Sty'r CnwgrC tenPwri
By Jeff A. Suzuki
As Jerry Poumelle, noted science writer, 
might say, out in space, it’s raining soup, 
and we don’t even know about soup bowls. 
Yet that is basically true of the situation, 
here and now.A• Until the advent of the
Columbia, the United States has 
been slowly retreating from 
sfxice — a senseless and completely unfor- 
giveable retreat, for should that retreat have 
continued, it would wreak untold conse­
quences upon the economy of the United 
States.
The shuttie is just stage one in the great 
adventure: a stepping-stone. Space has some­
thing for everyone — it is unbelievably rich, 
in terms of both energy and minerals. These 
resources are essential for anyone wanting to 
run a sound economy.
Energy — the sun pours out on the order 
of three hundred sixty trillion trillion watts 
in all directions. The earth intercepts 
roughly one two billionth of this energy, 
which causes our weather, and a pheno­
menon called “life.” Some of these forms of 
life like to think that we can get all the 
energy we need without leaving the ground
— calling it “ground-based solar energy.”
In Pittsburgh? What’s the weather out,
now? Is it night? Or day, with overcast? Or is 
it another sunny day? Ground based solar 
energy is completely unreliable, merely 
because of the weather, and night. Here, it is 
available less than thirty percent of the time. 
That’s fine if you want to go without light 
or energy for sixteen hours daily — but I 
don’t.
Let’s go into orbit, literally. Here, we find 
that there are no clouds. Given the proper 
orbit (for instance, a polar orbit that crosses 
both poles) there is no night. Solar energy 
twenty four hours daily. Howr much?
Take those three hundred sixty trillion 
trillion watts. Now, that evergy is radiating 
outwards — spreading out. At the distance 
of the earth’s orbit (one hundred fifty mil­
lion kilometers) it covers an area of two 
hudred eighty thousand trillion kilometers 
square, so each kilometer receives about one 
and a third billion watts. Add it up . . .
New York City uses something on the 
order of sixteen billion watts. We could 
supply New York City with that by using a 
place twelve and a third kilometers in area.
Therefore, there is no energy problem in 
space. Enough energy' to light the world — 
plus enough left over to power factories — 
many, many, many factories.
continued on page 5
It seems highly unlikely that the order to 
fire at Korean Airlines Flight 7 
originated in the Kremlin. 
Though hardly know n for dis­
plays of compassion and 
humanity when pursuing their political 
and/or military goals, the boys in the Krem­
lin are not stupid enough to order a civilian 
airliner shot out of the sky just for the hell of 
it. Members of the Politburo are nothing if 
not practical, especially when it comes to 
propaganda and public relations. It’s diffi­
cult to believe that they would deliberately 
hand the U.S. such a handsome propaganda 
victory without gaining anything substan­
tial in return.
Much more plausible is the theory that 
the order was given at some intermediate 
point in the military chain of command. 
The officer responsible has probably since 
been reassigned to an inhospitable post 
somewhere in Siberia. Furthermore, it also 
seems unlikely that those responsible were 
convinced that the plane was indeed a civ­
ilian airliner.
I think there has been a general tendency 
to credit those involved with a higher degree 
of intelligence or at least common sense 
than that to which they may be entitled. It 
strikes me as quite possible that in the excite­
ment the Soviets were either too stupid to 
realize that they were dealing with a civilian 
airliner or simply unwilling to believe that 
it actually was a civilian airliner. Neither 
case lessens their culpability, but both seem 
more plausible than theories of heinous 
conspiracy.
Unfortunately, although not surpris­
ingly, the Reagan view' is that the Soviet 
Union deliberately and cold bloodedly des­
troyed w’hat they knew and accepted to be a 
civilian airliner. The result of such senti­
ment can only further cool whatever luke­
warm enthusiasm for arms control may 
have previously existed inside the White 
House.
Despite the noble assurances of President 
Reagan that the incident will not result in a 
lessening of determination “to reduce and if 
possible eliminate the threat hanging over 
mankind’’ as a result of nuclear weapons, 
I’m sure many of the President’s advisors are 
positively joyful that they can now’ blame 
what they consider the inevitable failure of 
arms control talks on the Soviets. Actually, 
I’m sure that there will be no lessening of 
determination, since the Reagan adminis­
tration has never had much to begin with.
The Korean airline massacre will 
undoubtedly relieve some*of the pressure for 
arms control, even though in practical terms 
the two have absolutely nothing to do with 
one another. Witness the pitch for the MX 
which Reagan included in the same speech. 
Also included was a word or two promoting 
the rest of his overpriced, crazy quilt defense 
build-up. Arming ourselves to the teeth, 
however, will do nothing to prevent a sim­
ilar disaster in the future.
It is incumbent upon us, the more civ­
ilized nations of the world, to attempt to 
understand and live with the Soviet Union. 
There is no justification for what happened 
to Korean Airlines Flight 7, but more 
nuclear missiles and batUeships won’t solve 
anything. It is imperative that the lines of 
communication remain open. Ronald Rea­
gan and his advisors may not feel that talk­
ing will serve any useful purpose, but it’s 
really the only tool we have to work with. 
Sanctions are fine for punishment, but what 
comes afterward?
Stuart Shapiro is a graduate student in 
^UPA and is a columnist for The Tartan.
Alate proposes ways for students to earn quick money
By Nate Solano
Are you a work/study student coming off 
a two week stint only to find your paycheck 
will need another two weeks of processing? 
Thinking about an emergency loan 
; calready? You’re not alone, this 
3has developed into a CMU tradi- 
Jtion not yet mentioned in the 
wmnmtf Word.
Big deal, the student government 
acknowledges your problem. Can they do
anything? Probably not. So what do you do 
for food and roach motels in the meantime? 
Here are offered a few methods of raising 
some quick bucks in recessionary times.
1.) Take an emergency loan — they’re 
interest free and almost preposterously sim­
ple to obtain. Don’t be embarrassed, it’s fun 
to eat on CMU for a while.
2.) Give blood — this is one my mother 
told me never to do (and thus I haven’t) — 
there is a plasma donor center across from.
the Oakland Giant Eagle on Forbes Ave. At 
least 3 years ago they offered up to $20 pint.
3.) Bio-Decision Laboratories — my 
roommates tried this one, it involves an 
entire weekend of taking an experimental 
(over the counter type) drug and giving 16 
separate blood samples. This pays $200, but 
the other guinea pigs can be pretty scary I’m 
told. Bio-Decision is also located on Forbes 
Ave. in Oakland.
^.) ¡Domino's ,P\zza Qelivery — this oneivi i ri) » KT * » I
requires a car, but the job is usually easily 
obtainable. The pay and pizza are reasona­
ble, plus the uniform is considered a status 
symbol at parties.
5.) Prostitution — for the true extremist. 
Some will consider this article sickening, 
some morbid, others humorous depending 
on their stage of neurosis.
Thank you and God bless.
Next week-the return pf .qffic? hours.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—The Tartan—September 13, 1983
Alpha Phi Omega serves campus and community
By DAN TOBIAS
Tartan Staffivritrr
The national service fraternity, Alpha Phi 
Omega, has a chapter at C-MU. Its office is 
located in Skibo 54. According to president 
Chuck Lawton, their objective is to serve the 
campus and the community. A Phi O runs 
food concessions at Tech football games and 
at Spring Carnival, the book exchange at the 
beginning of the semester, and conducts the 
Student Senate elections. In addition, they 
provide toys for the needy at Christmas, and 
answer phones for WQED, the local public 
television station, during fund-raising 
events. Later this month they will help the A 
Phi O chapters at Pitt and West Virginia 
University conduct a relay run from Pitts­
burgh to West Virginia in conjunction with 
a football game between those schools. This 
will raise money to benefit the Autism
continued from page 1
about “personal computing, robotics, and 
magnetic technology.”
He hopes that alumni awareness will 
bring about their support, but not just 
monetarily. Acting as a “liason between 
school and students,” alumni could help 
recruit students.
Maloney considers Camegie-Mellon Uni­
versity “a research-oriented university trying 
to find knowledge and disseminate it,” but 
wants to see “a greater sensitivity of human 
needs while being engaged in high 
technology.”
He indicates that the separation between 
the colleges here has been exaggerated and 
that relationships between them are improv­
ing. He says that inter-disciplinary courses
Society. Also, they are now helping Grove 
City College start a chapter.
When A Phi O was originally founded, it 
was an all-male organization. Since then 
most chapters, including the one at C-MU, 
have turned co-ed. Duquesne’s chapter is 
one of the last holdouts which still won’t 
accept women. At C-MU the women 
members outnumber the men, but because 
of tradition they still generally refer to each 
other as “brothers.”
New members join by a pledging process, 
similar to other fraternities. There is a min­
imum service requirement to become a 
member. This can be fulfilled by participate 
ing in various projects such as the WQED 
phonathon.
They also publish the C-Book. Jordan 
Nash, who is in charge of producing this 
book, says that this year’s edition should be
have provided greater opportunities for stu­
dents to understand and to respect each oth­
er’s disciplines. Maloney feels that the last 
ten years have been particularly unifying.
He feels working in alumni relations on 
projects such as homecoming and the 
student-alumni relations committee will 
create a more unified atmosphere at the uni­
versity. This, he hopes, will bring about 
greater interaction between students and 
alumni.
In college, Maloney was trained in educa­
tion and counseling, so he finds his work 
interesting. He says, “I love working with 
people.”
Even so, the only great change in Malo­
ney’s life because of his new job, says he, is to 
make his lunch hours shorter.
out by mid-October. People who have 
changed their address since the beginning of 
the semester, or do not have their correct 
address listed on their 3D form, should fill 
out a correction form. This form is in this 
issue of the Tartan and is also available at 
the Skibo information desk. Also, clubs and 
organizations who wish to be listed in the 
centerfold of the C-Book should leave a note 
at the information desk. The price of the
Pre- college
By SCOTT SAFIER
Tartan Staffwnter
After our finals end and we go home for 
the summer, CMU continues its educa­
tional goal with several programs to benefit 
those high school students preparing for 
college, as well as professionals that wish to 
acquire new skills. Among the programs 
offered are the pre-college program, 
advanced placement/early admission 
(AP/EA) program, and Women in Science 
and Engineering(WISE).
The pre-college and AP/EA programs 
allow students to have a 6 week sample of 
college courses. The pre-college program is 
sponsored through the College of Fine Arts. 
Students enrolled in the program study art, 
design, architecture, and drama, and receive 
feedback from the faculty to evaluate their 
professional promise. The AP/EA program 
allows students to take science, engineering, 
or humanities courses for college credit. 
Some of the more advanced AP/EA students 
have the option of skipping their senior year 
in high school and returning to CMU in the 
fall.
Women in Science and Engineering is a 
one week introduction for female high 
school juniors to the various science and
C-Book might be increased from 25 cents to 
50 cents this year, although that has not been 
definitely decided yet. Jordan points out that 
the price increase would only bring the price 
back to what it was in the mid 1960’s. They 
lowered it after that since the advertising 
revenue was enough to cover their addi­
tional costs, and the book is intended as a 
service rather than a fund-raiser. It now costs 
them about $1.25 per copy to print.
programs
engineering disciplines.
The goals of these programs are to “simu­
late a college environment for students in 
high school,” according to Gina Osborn, 
University Admissions officer. These 
summer students are treated to weekend 
movies and dances, as well as other activities 
arranged for them. The only difference that 
students may notice is that during the 
summer the rules are stricdy enforced - no 
men on women’s floors after midnight, no 
drugs, and no beer.
Enrollment up 11.4%
Applications have increased by 11.4% 
according to Dr. William Elliott, Vice Presi­
dent for Enrollment.
“Applications to all good schools — and I 
would consider CMU a good school — are 
continuing to increase,” commented Elliott. 
Applications are increasing despite a 
nationwide decrease in the number of high 
school graduates.
Elliott stated that the increase was due in 
part to the plan for personal computers.
“More people know about CMU now. 
We don’t want to become ‘Computer U’, but 
the publicity is an asset to take advantage 
of,” he said.
From coach to counselor
Maloney in Alumni Relations
udpS hfmvN GM bfm!
St'
St'ThisTan
Sf/y'ORS
io/fs
Come to Skibo InFormatIon DEsk ANd siqN up 
fOR SENiOR PORTRAITS.
Portraits will be taken September 26-30 in Room 45 Skibo 
8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Thursday 
8 a.m. to 3 p.m. Friday — Thistle 1984Funded by Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

September 13,1983—The Tartan—Page 5
College Presidents push for more control over NCAA
The same group of college presidents that 
managed to impose tough new academic 
standards for athletes on the National Colle­
giate Athletic Association (NCAA) has 
/announced a drive to exert more control 
over all the NCAA’s policy-making 
procedures.
A group of 27 college presidents ~ 
members of the American Council on Edu­
cation’s (ACE) Committee on Division I 
Intercollegiate Athletics -- emerged from a 
meeting in Keystone, Colorado last week 
with plans to create a new NCAA group
made up exclusively of campus presidents.
It’s only the most recent challenge to the 
NCAA’s administrative staff’s authority. A 
group of some 30 NCAA-member schools 
have sued to keep the NCAA from negotiat­
ing future television contracts for them. The 
case is pending. The enormous revenues 
generated by the contracts have been the 
major tools used by the NCAA to keep 
members in line.
The so-called Board of Presidents, says 
Bob Atwell, the ACE’s acting president, 
“will be concerned with issues of academic
Asteroids provide minerals
continued from page 3
Gerald K. O’Neil, Princeton physics 
teacher and advocate of space colonization, 
uses the idea of moon-miners — intrepid 
industrialists or industrialist-backed men 
and women who mine the resources of the 
moon. Poetic, yes. Practical in some sense — 
but we have more sense than that, don’t we?
A further target, but much easier to access, 
would be the asteroids. You know them — 
those little things on the video screen . . .
The real asteroids lie between Mars and 
Jupiter, and are nowhere near as densely 
packed as Atari would have you believe. 
Still, it is economical to mine them — even 
more so than it is to mine the moon, for 
several reasons.
First, their surface gravity is compara­
tively nil. Instead of having to reach escape 
velocity for the moon to transport the stuff 
down to Earth, mining the asteroids is very 
different: just move the asteroid, a very sim­
ple task, since it is (gravitationally) “down­
hill” all the way, and power for this is no 
problem (remember those 360 trillion tril­
lion watts).
Second, the asteroid itself is almost half
iron in some cases, and at least twenty-five 
percent in most cases — and all of that is 
virtually pure iron. How much iron does 
this mean?
Take a small asteroid — say one kilometer 
in radius. This asteroid has a volume of 4.2 
cubic kilometers, and masses around twenty 
billion tons. If twenty five percent of that 
mass is iron — that’s four billion tons, or 
about the amount of iron produced by the 
world in a bit under six years. Whoever 
manages to get out there first (and I won’t go 
so far as to say the United States will — but 
we can if we want to) will make a killing on 
the market until other nations get wise.
At this point, some people may throw a 
few figures in their head (starting figures: 
the twenty billion spent on Apollo, the ten 
billion spent on the shuttle) and say, “wait a 
minute — what do we get out it it? Why 
spend the money out there, while Earth is so 
messed up down here?”
A valid question — to be answered next 
week.
Jeff Suzuki is a freshman majoring in 
Information Systems and is a columnist for 
The Tartan.
standards, financial matters and the general 
integrity of intercollegiate sports.”
“At the present time,” he contends, “it’s 
difficult for presidents to participate in 
policy-making decisions (within the 
NCAA), particularly at the Division I level.” 
The proposed 36-member board would 
give the presidents direct control over solu­
tions to the grade-fixing and recruiting scan­
dals that have rocked college sports in recent 
years, Atwell says.
Although the new board’s plans are still 
tentative, they could mean tougher grade 
standards and more control for individual 
schools over sports revenues.
The NCAA, on the other hand, says the 
proposed board is unnecessary “since the 
structure is already in place for (the presi­
dents) to do what they want to do,” says 
NCAA spokesman Dave Cawood.
“The NCAA has been built on institu­
tional control and (presidents) have always
had the power to determine the voting dele­
gate for their institutions,” he explains.
But the ACE presidents maintain their 
delegates are usually athletic directors. Even 
if they’re formally appointed by the presi­
dents, Atwell says, they don’t give the presi­
dents a direct say in the policy-making.
“Plus, college presidents really don’t have 
the time required to be a delegate, but they 
do want to participate in deciding major 
issues. The Board of Presidents would give 
them this opportunity.”
The ACE, in the meantime, is hoping to 
have the full NCAA vote on its proposal at 
the NCAA convention in January.
The presidents, however, are apparently 
interested only in Division I sports.
Atwell said his committee has no plans to 
form a similar committee for the National 
Association for Intercollegiate Athletics, 
which serves smaller schools around the 
country.
Tired of writing letters but still want to keep your parents 
informed?
Get a Tartan subscription!
Only $10 a semester.
Send my parents a subscription for
? one semester ? two semesters
mailing &
billing address
name
address
Send to The Tartan*, Box 17, Schenley Park, Pgh or bring to 
Skibo 50.
i__
Irw osyo Ieryo $u2
Natural, Distinctive and Totally YOU! 
Ill
a -i-;.? ,r. ^ ,
5.MhpSpf0
dHp.hmuhfvf.
VH0b vM0hudD
$12.00
VWHSdBhmuB.vfW SubvMD 
0f
H55fp0uRM0u
5M.RS -f.
Hvv SubvMS 
$25.00
_ Sjmm
flHPVDWIBRI.mtMDfvmamw
GENERAL INFORMATION
DISPLAY ADS
Display ads are $4.50 per column inch, minimum order is two 
column inches. Special rates are available. There is a late 
submission charge.
Deadline: Tuesday before publication at 5:00 PM
CLASSIFIED ADS
Classifieds are $2.00 for 1-20 words, $4.00 for 21-50 words, 
$8.00 for more than 50 words.
Dealine: Wednesday before publication at 5:00 PM
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Announcements and Events are free for non-profit organizations. 
We reserve the right to delete or edit any announcement or event.
Deadline: Wednesday before publication at 5:00 PM
For further information, contact Business Manager Kathy Wasch. 
Business hours: Monday and Wednesday, 4:00 to 6:00 PM 
Address: Box 17, Schenley Park, Pgh., PA 15213 or Skibo 50 
Phones: 578-2111/2112 
24-Hour answering machine: 578-2113
Mon . Tut».. Wetf. 10-7 
Thun.. Fri. I0-*
Set MM7-SVM
0f H55fp0uRM0uS 
UNISEX HAIR SALON
2S7 Atwood Stmt 
Actou ihr ttmt (roan 
Qilihri pho Oftar

---------------------------------------------------

A semi-semester 
literary supplement to The Tartan
will hold its
FIRST 
GENERAL STAFF 
MEETING
Thursday September 15 
7:00 p.m.
TARTAN OFFICE 
SKIBO ROOM 50
All interest students welcome.
First deadline for submissions
September 27

---------------------------------------------------

-ryokerCc
Comp sci grad flies to dreams on short notice
By JANICE BULLARD
, Tartan Staffwritrr
? Wouldn’t it be nice to spend a weekend at 
the beach? Not for Dave Touretslcy, a com­
puter science graduate student here at CMU. 
“Flying a small plane is the only way you
can do something like that,” he added after 
relating a trip he and a few friends took to 
Atlantic City, N.J. one Saturday.
Touretslcy is a flight instructor for the 
Steel City Flyers, a club located at the 
Allegheny County Airport which offers
aerial tours of the city as well as flying les­
sons to those interested. “Most people think 
flying a plane takes some kind of special 
coordination, or perfect vision. Of course 
you have to learn and practice, but anyone 
that can drive a car in Pittsburgh is capable
of flying a private plane.”
The requirements for receiving a pilot’s 
license include 40 hours flying time, passing 
a written and oral exam, and a flight check, 
then it’s off you go, into the wild blue 
yonder!
k
Start digging now & you may find more than junk
Social Security news
When engineers began excavation last 
May in Market Square to make way for six 
new buildings to be erected by PPG as Phase
II of Pittsburgh’s “Renaissance” project, 
they knew that they would find a lot of old 
“junk” amidst the rubble. What they did not 
know, however, was that the site would turn 
out to be of significant archaeological 
importance. In fact, due largely to the efforts 
of a dedicated team of archaeologists from 
^ Carnegie Museum of Natural History’s Sec­
tion of Man, many of the items unearthed 
will reveal for the first time aspects of Pitts­
burgh’s earliest beginnings and subsequent 
growth as one of the nation’s most impor­
tant industrial and commercial centers.
The project, which was done in coopera­
tion with Market View, Inc. (a PPG subsi­
diary), provided a rare opportunity to use 
the future to look back into the past. In a 
recent Carnegie Magazine article about the 
project, Verna L. Cowin, Research Associate 
for the museum’s Section of Man and Direc­
tor of the PPG site excavations, explained 
that one stratified foundation unit of such 
quality, character, and datable information 
from 1790 to 1845 is an unprecedented his­
toric archaeological find in the Upper Ohio 
Valley. She also noted that the recovery of 
almost 200 years of Pittsburgh history 
coupled with the assemblage of artifacts 
represents the largest and most important 
research project ever undertaken in this area.
Working after hours and over the week- 
ends as well as during the actual excava­
tion procedure, the archaeologists recovered 
over 1,000 complete or nearly complete bot- 
des from the site which will undoubtedly 
shed light on changes in manufacturing 
techniques and styles and will help to deter­
mine the use and distribution of the bottles’ 
contents over the three-block urban area. 
The PPG wells and cisterns were found to 
contain not only glass containers but an 
assortment of ceramic and metal objects, as 
well as normally perishable remains of cloth 
and leather, artists’ brushes, cans of paint 
y pigment, a small handgun, a harmonica, 
and a watch. Even such delicate objects as 
eggshells, seeds, fruit pits, animal bones and
fish scales have been salvaged. In all, 544 
complete, unbroken items were returned to 
the museum.
The impact of the project has extended far 
beyond the excavation site. Last month the 
PPG publicity department requested a 
small display for the lobby area in its corpo­
rate headquarters (the museum loaned a 
small case and some 30 representative arti­
facts; PPG provided photographic enlarge­
ments and the labels). Carnegie Museum of 
Natural History is also planning an exhibi­
tion about the history of the Market Square 
area, based on these archaeological findings, 
and a request to exhibit artifacts and infor­
mation about the site has been received.
Club changes 
name; still 
invests $$$
By LEE SHEPARD
Tartan Staffivritrr
The CMU Investment Group, formerly 
the Investment Club, is beginning its second 
year of operation. The organization was 
started last year to teach students about the 
investment world. Currently there are no 
courses at CMU which do this.
The group teaches students through sev- 
erals means, the most important being 
actual investment. Presently they have a 
portfolio worth approximately $9000. Most 
of it is now in cash, since several stocks were 
sold at the end of last spring and during the 
summer. There are several investment direc­
tion committees which research and bring 
up investments for possible purchase. These 
currently exist in stocks, bonds, options and 
mutual funds. A commodity futures group 
is in the process of being oiganized.
Odier educational resources include 
speakers from the investment community. 
Last year, eight outside speakers, experts in 
their fields, spoke on a variety of topics. In 
continued on page 8
Starting in 1985, the recent Social Security 
Amendments change the method under 
which cost-of-living increases for Social 
Security beneficiaries will be computed.
Under the old law, increases were tied to 
increases in the Consumer Price Index 
(CPI). Whenever the CPI monthly average 
for the first 3 months of a year exceeded the 
CPI monthly average for the first 3 months 
of the previous year by at least 3 percent, 
benefits were increased to reflect that 
change. Since prices rose faster than average 
wages, benefits icreased faster than did the 
Social Security taxes being collected. This 
resulted in a serious drain on the Social 
Security trust funds.
Under the new law, future increases will 
be computed on the basis of the smaller of 
two items:
- the increase in the CPI, or
- average wages when the assets in the 
Social Security (OASDI) trust funds are less 
than a given percentage of estimated benefit 
payments for the year.
This percentage is 15 percent for increases 
payable from January 1985 through 1989, 
and 20 percent for increases payable January 
1990 and later.
The new legislation also provides a way 
tp help make up lor any increases that were 
based on wage increases. When the trust 
fund ratio reaches 32 percent, any funds 
available above the 32 percent ratio will be 
used to prov ide additional benefit increases.
TTiis provision serves to protect the trust 
funds without unnecessarily penalizing 
beneficiaries.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—The Tartan—September 13, 1983
Man investigates paranorma/sThink you're psychic? Prove it to Busch
By STEPHEN VOLAN
Tartan Staffwriter
“Now, let me think a minute. . .hmm. . . 
you’re sitting down, right?”
“Yes, I am.”
“And you’re sitting at your desk, a desk on 
which, besides the pencil and paper which 
you’re writing on, there is a litde bit of 
clutter, the kind that you would normally 
find on a college student’s desk. Am I correct 
so far?”
I glance around and I am sitting at a desk 
although its my roommate’s and strangely 
enough there are a few odds and ends scat­
tered across the desktop. I pick up the phone 
and say, “Yes, that’s right.”
“Okay, let’s continue... I think... I think 
I can see . . . yes, to your left, on the floor, 
there is a large mess, some debris or some­
thing — just a large mess that hasn’t been 
sorted out.”
I can’t help but smile. On the floor to the 
left of my seat is a pile of dirty clothes that 
has not been taken care of. “Yes, that’s 
right!”
“Now I could go on like this for hours, 
but you get the idea. The [predictions] I just 
made were only logical guesses, and I’m sure 
that they weren’t exactly right — but they 
were close enough. If I claimed to be psy­
chic, which I don’t, you might just believe 
me, wouldn’t you?”
The man on the other end of the line is 
Richard Busch, founder and chairman of 
the Paranormal Investigative Committee of 
Pittsburgh (PICP). The PICP, as described 
by Busch, is “a group of scientists, mainly 
psychologists, physicists, and engineers, 
who believe that the massive amounts of
information reported in the media regard­
ing psychic [and paranormal] abilities, are 
true.”
The committee has been offering a $1000 
bounty to anyone who can substantiate their 
paranormal claims. Since the inception of 
the PICP this year, no one has claimed the 
money. The PICP is also informally affil­
iated with the Committee for Scientific 
Investigation of Claims of the Paranormal 
(CSICOP), a national organization of the 
same nature which has been offering a 
$100,000 award similiar to that of the PICP; 
this prize, too, remains uncollected.
Busch himself is an outspoken man who 
knows his topic well. A graduate of Florida 
State University, he attended graduate 
school at Camegie-Mellon for two years. He 
was voted 1983 Magician of the Year by the 
Pittsburgh branch of the International 
Brotherhood of Magicians, and so is quite 
familiar with the techniques that many psy- • 
chics and other claimants to the paranormal 
use to perform their tricks.
Busch describes himself as a skeptic when 
it comes to paranormality. “I do not refute 
the existence of the paranormal; I never 
have, and I never will. But I do say that the 
evidence to support [paranormality] is 
incredibly weak ... In fact, there has never 
been an experiment at any time anywhere 
on the face of the earth, conducted by quali­
fied scientists and experts on deception, that 
has proven the existence of [any form of]... 
psychic or supernatural powers.”
Some of the biggest hoaxes involving so- 
called psychic powers lacked the important 
scientific credibility they needed. For
example:
— After the death of President Kennedy, 
psychic Jeane Dixon announced publicly 
that she had predicted his death, and many 
of the details. But in reality, says Busch, “she 
only predicted that a Democratic president 
would die in office. Well, anyone could have 
made that prediction. And the book which 
she said she had published a few years earlier 
containing her prediction was never 
found.”
— Tamara Rand, another famous “tab­
loid psychic,” also supposedly predicted the 
assassination attempt months in advance of 
the shooting, and had the prediction video­
taped in a studio. Says Busch: “Yes, she even 
came close to Hinckley’s name as the assas­
sin. But, after close scrutiny of the tape, it 
was found that the tape was made after the 
assassination attempt, and she dropped her 
claim very soon after that.”
— Uri Geller, the Israeli psychic who 
toured the United States in the late 1970s 
demonstrating his ability to bend spoons 
and keys, has since been shown to be not 
quite the psychic that he claims. Says Busch: 
“Uri Geller is a very good magician, but 
that’s all he is ... Many of the techniques he 
employed are well known to the brother­
hood of professional magicians.”
However, Busch is quick to point out that 
not all psychics are trying to cheat the pub­
lic. Many of them are legitimate and believe 
they’re legitimate. “There are definitely 
some out-and-out frauds, but in general, 
most psychics really believe in their own 
[supposed] powers.”
In conclusion, Busch cites a study done in 
1975 on a group of over 100 psychology 
students. Out of this group 23% believed in 
astrology, 31% believed that psychic powers 
do exist, over 50% believed in astral (out-of- 
body) travel, and a whopping 88% of the 
students believed that the existence of ESP 
had been proven. The meaning erf this study is 
clear even today: it’s too easy to believe in the 
paranormal without thinking twice. 
Richard Busch’s advice? “Be skeptical, use 
caution, be careful not to jump to conclu­
sions [when considering psychic pheno­
mena] . . . Ask yourself, ‘Is it possible I’m 
being fooled, and if so, how?’ It all boils 
down to one statement: ‘Show me! Either 
put up or shut up.’”
For anyone interested in information 
about the PICP, or anyone who wishes to 
prove a possible psychic ability in front of 
the Committee, write to: Richard Busch, 
5841 Morrofield Ave., #302, Pittsburgh, PA 
15217. Please enclose a self-addressed, 
stamped envelope, and a succinct explana­
tion of your request.
Investors 
are grouped
continued from page 7
addition, the club office has an extensive 
resource library located in Skibo room 56.
Meetings, which are open to all students, 
are held on Thursdays at 6:30 pm in Skibo 
room 11; the Highlander Room will host 
this year’s introductory meeting. Any ques­
tions? Stop by Skibo 56 or call x3605.
I
V
Ì
GRAY'S ANATOMY
The Classic Color Collector's
Edition
750 Detailed lllus, and Dia­
grams, ind. 172 Color Plates. 
This landmark 1901 edition of 
one of the greatest reference 
works of all time is a must for 
physicians, students, artists, 
and the medically curious. The 
1248 page text is teeming with 
fascinating information. Now 
intro., quality printing, hand­
some binding, and a fantastic 
low price
Only $8.98
BRIDGES:
Their Art, Science, and 
Evolution
By C.S. Whitney 
Over 400 lllus.
Brilliant survey, largely in pic­
tures and diagrams, of the prin­
ciples of bridge design and 
construction from the time of 
the Romans to the first decades 
of the 20th century. 352 pages 
T/7 x 9V4.
Special Only $8.98
THE COMPLETE BROTHERS 
GRIMM FAIRY TALES
Ed By L. Owens. 100 lllus. 
Presents all 215 stories 
recorded by the Brothers 
Grimm, many not available 
elsewhere, enhanced by the 
illus of renowned artists, incl. 
such timeless favorites as Cin­
derella, Rapunzel and The Frog 
Prince A delight for young and 
old alike 696 pages
Special Only $6.98
ORIGINS
By Richard E. Leakey and R. 
Lewin
240 Photos and lllus.,
100 in Full Color 
Challenging book pieces 
together the exciting story of 
mankind's long past and the 
conditions necessary for a suc­
cessful future. Hundreds of 
illus. and a lucid text document 
Leakey's excavations at Lake 
Turkana in Kenya, where dra­
matic discoveries have shat­
tered long-held assumptions 
about human evolution and 
social organization. Takes the 
reader through every phase of 
anthropology, from site selec­
tion to the analysis and recon­
struction of fossil specimens. 8
x 91/2.
Pub. at $17.95 
Only $7.98
THE COMPLETE WORKS OF 
WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE
28 illus.
Complete and unabridged edi­
tion containing every word that 
Shakespeare wrote—all 37 
tragedies, comedies and histo­
ries, plus the sonnets, etc. 1248 
pages
Orig. 2 Vol. Set Pub. at $20.00. 
New, 1 Vol. Ed
Only $7.98
FUN WITH MATHEMATICS
By P. Heafford 
lllus with Line Drawings 
Test your mathematical mettle 
with this entertaining and chal­
lenging collection of teaser, 
ticklers, traps and tricks. Some­
times easy, sometimes exasper­
ating, but never dull. '
Special Only $3.98
IttLATiyXXX, VKIAl
TheNwsT
Albert Einstein: RELATIVITY
Straightforward layman's 
explanation—written by Ein­
stein himself—of the epoch- 
making theory that ushered in 
the atomic age.
New, Complete ed.
Only $2.98
BULFINCH'S MYTHOLOGY
lllus.
The classic collection of the 
beloved myths and legendary 
lore. This complete edition incl. 
The Age of Fable, which fea­
tures tales of the Greek and 
Roman gods and heroes; The 
Age of Chivalry, featuring sto­
ries of King Arthur and his 
Knights; Legends of Charle­
magne, featuring tales of the 
French King and his court. 957 
pages
Special Value Only $6.98I
emu bookstore
IN BAKER HALL

---------------------------------------------------

September 13, 1983—The Tartan—Page 9
McClures
Carpeting
Ask for DAVE GERMAN
1701 E. Carson Street 
(5 minutes from Oakland) 
381-5140 All Styles 
Paint Supplies All Colors 
Room size rugs, remnents 
Call for directions
QUIK TYPING SERVICE
ON PITT’S CAMPUS
621-5999
RESUMES TERM PAPERS
DISSERTATIONS LEGAL PAPERS
COVER LETTERS BUSINESS LETTERS
TECHNICAL PAPERS MAILINGS
LABELS WORD PROCESSING
3945 Forbes Ave. 128 Oakland Ave.
(INSIDE KINKO’S COPY SERVICE)
MONDAY-FRIDAY 9 a.m. - 9 p.m. SATURDAY 10 a.m. - 4 p.m.
SAME DAY SERVICE - PICK-UP AND DELIVERY
Photos by Wayne Bortman
CMU photo spread
Returning to campus with a differentperspective
Though school has started, to 
Mother Nature it’s still summer. 
This is the time of year when thou­
sands of returning students redis­
cover just how beautiful the CMU 
campus really is.
Left; The garden between Hunt 
Library and the GSIA building is a 
place to study, meditate, or just get 
out of the sun.
Below, right; The path from 
Doherty Hall becomes a major tho­
roughfare when engineering lectures 
let out.
Below, left; The scenery that no 
CMU student misses, terminal 
rooms may not be beautiful, but they 
are air-conditioned.

---------------------------------------------------

Style & substance, 
ink & paper,
the Tartan & you.
As the newspaper of CMU, we are
active in a variety of areas. Join our 
writers, production staff, photo­
graphers, artists and business people. 
Meetings are on Mondays, 7:30 pm in 
Skibo 13. Interested, but can’t come? 
Then drop by Skibo 50 anytime 
Sunday.

---------------------------------------------------

MAoreoylAirAoc
Local theatres offer 
more than just hits
k
By LEE BROWNSTON
Tartan Staffwriter
While hardly an international center of 
film culture, Pittsburgh does have a pleas­
ing variety of exhibitors, both large and 
small, that bring the best of new and old 
films to viewers who demand something 
other than current Hollywood releases. 
Serious filmgoers will have no trouble find­
ing an abundance of exciting films within 
walking distance or a short drive from 
campus.
The Carnegie Institute (4400 Forbes 
Avenue, 622-3212) prefers showing series of 
films centered around a filmmaker, a coun­
try, or a theme; they also feature current 
work in video; they show different series on 
Friday nights and Saturday nights. You can 
get on their mailing list to receive their two- 
month schedule. Admission is $2.50, $2.00 
for members, students, and senior citizens. 
Many of the films they show are of great 
interest to people interested in world film 
and film history, and are unlikely to be 
shown anywhere else.
Pittsburgh Filmmakers (205 Oakland 
Avenue, 681-5449) has the quirkiest, most 
surprising programming I’ve ever seen. 
This is the place to see independent and 
avant-garde films, and occasionally to meet 
the filmmakers. But they also show many 
classic American and foreign films, and 
some rather recent ones as well. For your 
$2.00 admission you also get access to a 
gallery, a brief personal introduction to the 
film, and relatively comfortable but very
Band changes personnel
limited seating. There are usually two 
shows a night, or a double feature. Features 
stay for two days only: Wednesday-
Thursday, or Friday-Saturday. If you get on 
their mailing list, you can get their two- 
month schedule with its impossibly preten­
tious program notes sent to your very own 
home. They are located in Oakland just off 
Forbes, across from Spudnuts and Danny’s 
Pub. Go up the stairs and turn right for the 
film, left for the gallery.
The Arcade Theatre (1915'East Carson, 
488-8888) specializes in high-quality first- 
run foreign films, although they occasion­
ally show important new American films 
that no other theaters will touch. Their pro­
gramming is excellent; anyone who follows 
film seriously will want to see almost every­
thing they show. Admission is comparable 
to that of commercial theaters (in the $4.00 
range), but they have special reduced fares 
on weekends and Mondays. The theater is 
old and badly in need of maintenance, and is 
usually over-air-conditioned in the summer, 
but these minor flaws should not deter peo­
ple who want to see some of the best films 
that are shown in Western Pennsylvania. 
To get there, take Fifth Avenue westward to 
the Birmingham Bridge, cross to the South 
Side, turning right onto Carson Street (PA 
837), and continue for about a half mile; the 
theater will on the right.
The Pittsburgh Playhouse (222 Craft 
Avenue, 621-4445) shows a different film 
each night (although their schedule repeats 
month to month) with infrequent week-
long runs. They rely heavily on second-run 
films, sometimes showing features that are 
still playing at the $2.00 theaters, but every 
once in a while they will bring in a new 
foreign film or revive a foreign or American 
classic. Getting on their mailing list will 
bring you a monthly schedule embedded in
a 12-page tabloid describing all of the Play­
house’s cinematic, dramatic and educa­
tional activities. Admission is $2.75, and 
discount coupon books are available. Seat­
ing is slightly better than at the Arcade. To 
get there, walk down Forbes through Oak- 
continued on page 12
Latest vinyl effort shows driving force of Iron Maiden
By LESLEY BRUNKER
Tartan Staffwriter
Fried brain, anyone?
Yes, just when you thought it was safe to 
listen to the radio, Eddie, large and hideous 
mascot of Iron Maiden, appears on the cover 
of Piece of Mind, sans grey mat­
ter. But though Eddie has been 
locked away and lobotomised, 
the band is back, and the music 
is as head crushing as ever.
Maiden began this latest vinyl effort by 
making its third personnel change in as 
many studio albums. This time, it was 
drummer Clive Burr departing for personal 
and family reasons. While Burr was very 
popular among the faithful, his replace­
ment, Nicko McBrain (formerly with Trust 
and Pat Travers band), though less wild and 
driving than Burr, has greater control and
holds a beat better than his predecessor.
This quality is particularly evident in 
“The Trooper” (Harris), a strong, powerful 
song set on the batdefield. As the song is 
continually gathering momentum, it would 
be very easy for a percussionist to overdrive 
the pace: McBrain does not.
The two most structurally interesting 
songs are “Revelations” (Dickenson) and 
“Sun and Steel” (Dickenson/Smith). “Reve­
lations” is particularly fascinating in its 
alternating between quiet and power sec­
tions, the quiet featuring Steve Harris’s 
melodic bass, ploughing into a thick and 
heavy climax and guitar solo and fading out 
in a combination of both themes. However, 
though lead vocalist Bruce Dickenson (no 
longer under the contract with his former 
band, Samson, that had in the past pre­
vented his writing) wrote the song, it really
doesn’t evince his powerful voice.
One of the more outstanding songs is 
“Still Life” (Harris/Murray). After an inter­
esting prologue, co-lead guitarist Dave Mur­
ray certainly lends his hand to a three part 
(bass plus two guitars) harmonic opening 
and an overall solid guitar sound through­
out the song. The pace complements the 
power lyrics as they weave a tale of a tortured 
man who develops a murder-suicidal bend, 
and at last Dickenson is given an adequate 
showcase for his vocal force.
The best song on the album is “To Tame 
a Land” (Harris), a song about Frank Her­
bert’s Dune series that is reminiscent of 
“Hallowed be Thy Name” from Number of 
the Beast. The lead-in introduces a strong 
guitar line that is woven through the song, 
beginning in a quiet passage with an inter­
esting chord progression. Through the next
two parts of the song, Harris’s bass shares 
and eventually takes the lead, combining 
with the vocals to carry the songs to a hell­
bent, bass/lead guitar duo driven by strong 
percussion. Adrian Smith and Dave Mur­
ray’s solos are complementary, and the song 
resolves in an echoing of the opening theme.
Other tracks on the album include 
“Where Eagles Dare”, a hard driving song 
about a sneak attack with some realism- 
lending effects around the solo, “Die With 
Your Boots On”, another housing for Har­
ris’s bass with an amusing satirical note 
directed toward doom sayers, and “Quest for 
Fire,” an interestingly syncopated tune 
about prehistoric man. “Flight of Icarus”, 
the album’s first single release, was actually 
a rather poor choice for the role as it is not 
one of the more talent-exposing songs.
continued on page 12
Pittsburgh Record Fair 
features 100,000 selections
photo bv Erik Horn
Photographs by Kevin Brunelle are now on exhibition at the Blatent image Gallery 
through September 30.
Pittsburgh area music lovers will be gath­
ering on the Northside this September 24 for 
the second Pittsburgh Record Fair. Over a 
thousand attended the first Fair in April, 
some buying long-sought recordings, others 
simply enjoying the sights and sounds of 
this nostalgia festival.
Two dozen dealers from around the coun­
try will be featuring 100,000 records, rang­
ing from Baroque classics to Big Band 
swing, all the way through 1980s pop. 
Clevelander Dan Link — “Mr. Jazz” — will 
be bringing about 5,000 jazz favorites col­
lected over four decades. There will also be 
Beatles recordings and memorabilia, rare 78 
rpm’s, 45’s, and sound tracks of movies and 
Broadway shows.
Music-oriented entertainment and mer­
chandise will be the order erf the day. OPUS 
ONE’s spectacular Beta HIFI will be center 
stage, playing a broad range erf video shorts, 
live concerts, jazz tapes, and much more, on 
its 10-foot screen. Also on display will be 
Wurlitzer and Seebufg jukeboxes, and “rock 
and roll” clothes, both current and from the 
1950s and 60s. “Boy’s Town,” t.m.i. record­
ing artists, will be on hand to autograph 
their new album.
Food, balloons, and door prizes will also 
be featured. Admission is $2 at the door. The 
Fair will be held from 10:00a.m. to4:00 p.m. 
on Saturday, September 24, at the Islam 
Grotto, 725 Allegheny Avenue, on the 
Northside, past Three Rivers Stadium near 
Allegheny Community Center.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12—The Tartan—September 13, 1983
Ingmar Bergman's latest
"Fanny and Alexander" a must for everyone
By LEE BROWNSTON
Tartan Staff writer
Ingmar Bergman has stated that Fanny 
and A lexander will be his last film; after a 
remarkable forty-year career as screenwriter 
and director, he plans henceforth to channel 
% his efforts into theater and televi- 
sion because, he says, the pres- 
dr sures are less intense. Many, 
who followed Bergman’s career 
more out of a sense of duty than pleasure, 
will breathe a sigh of relief — until they see
Fanny and A lexander, which is his warmest, 
most affirmative film since his screen adap­
tation of The Magic Flute. Like Fellini’s 
“mellow” trilogy' of The Clowns, Roma, 
and Amarcord following a series of increas­
ingly tumultous films, Bergman’s latest 
film seems to indicate that he has found 
peace.
Fanny and Alexander is for everyone: 
those who don’t like Bergman’s work, or 
who can’t wait to see another of his films, or 
who haven’t seen any of his films before. It is
Guitarist Adrian Belew 
visits CMU for concert
Adrian Belew of King Crimson will be 
appearing at the Skibo Ballroom on this 
Sunday at 8 p.m. He will also be giving a 
free lecture at 3 p.m. the same day in the 
Adamson Lecture Hall.
Writer and vocalist Adrian Belew’s 
esteem among a tight circle of renowned 
musical progressivists is reflected in the 
company he keeps — David Bowie, Robert 
Fripp, The Talking Heads, Brian Eno, 
Frank Zappa, The Yellow Magic Orchestra. 
One of the most distinctive and fastest rising 
artists in com temporary music, Belew’s 
debut album on Island Records, Lone 
Rhino, was an intriguing, richly textured 
work. Now comes Twang Bar King — the 
result of ceaseless experimentation tied to 
comsummate craftsmanship — accessible 
without the sacrifice of challenge.
Lone Rhino elevated Adrian from 
inspired sideman to originator in-his-own- 
right. He wras voted best new guitar player in 
the recent guitar player polls and was on the
cover of Guitar World Magazine. Apart 
from touring extensively with King Crim­
son in support of the Discipline and Beat 
LP’s (which included Europe and Japan), 
Adrian also played on Joan Armatrading’s 
highly acclaimed album The Key.
Twang Bar King was recorded in Adri­
an’s home town of Champaign, Illinois, 
using the Full Sail Mobil Unit. Musicians 
on the LP are: Christy Bley on piano, Bill 
Janssen on saxophone, J. Clifton Mayhugh 
on bass - all of whom played on Lone 
Rhino.
Twang Bar King is an eclectic album cov­
ering all spectrums of music from the 
straight ahead rock and roll cover of the 
Beades’s “I’m Down,” to the orchestrated 
guitar piece, “Ballet For A Blue Whale.” 
Other songs on the album include “She Is 
Not Dead,” which displays Adrian’s unique 
guitar wizardry; the lyrical “Another Time,” 
and the strong, funky, syncopated rock and 
roll song, “The Ideal Woman.”
WANTED:
DIRECTORS
PLAYWRIGHTS
Here’s your chance to get your play 
produced or direct the show you’ve 
always wanted to do!!
Bring your ideas and suggestions to:Scotch ’N Soda Drama Organization
date and time: 
Thursday, Sept. 15 @ 6:30-8:30 
Skibo 12 
OR 
Tuesday, Sept. 20 @ 6:30-8:30 
Skibo 13
a visual delight: the cinematography by 
Sven Nykvist, Bergman’s long-time colla­
borator, is by turns lush and austere, per- 
fecdy mirroring the moral states of the 
characters. As in a nineteenth-century Rus­
sian novel, the story is bursting with vividly 
and sympathetically rendered characters, 
and the plot, dialogue, mise-en-scene, and 
rhythm are expert enough to hold the view­
ers’ interest for more than three hours. True, 
the acting tends toward the theatrical, but 
then this is a very theatrical movie.
The story, set in Uppsala in 1907, con­
cerns the extended family of Helena Ekdahl, 
a widowed former actress; her three sons, 
Carl, Gustav, Oscar, their wives and child­
ren, her longtime flame Isak Jacobi, her 
maid Maj, and friends from the theater. Carl 
is a failed professor and an alcoholic, help­
lessly dependent on his German wife but 
unable to prevent himself from abusing her; 
as such, he is a traditional Bergman charac­
ter, tormented by inner demons with no 
hope or explanation in sight. Gustav, a 
genial windbag, runs a coffee shop and car­
ries on affairs while his wife Alma looks on 
with tolerance (except when he treats his 
mistresses badly). Oscar, a theater director 
and actor, works himself to death, leaving 
his wife Emilie (like Helena, a former 
actress) to look after Fanny and Alexander, 
their twfo children.
Emilie turns for solace to the handsome 
but sadistically rigid Bishop Edward Verge- 
rus, who officiated at Oscar’s funeral. Much 
to everyone’s regret, she marries him and 
moves in with his hideous family, leaving 
behind all the material and social comforts 
of her former life. Disaster comes swifdy 
when Alexander starts telling imaginative 
stories, which his stepfather sees as vicious 
lies.
Vergerus, in an effort to make his new 
family live up to his own exacting moral 
standards, becomes increasingly brutal, 
especially since Alexander has a pretty 
strong will for such a small boy. Life for 
Emilie, Fanny and Alexander quickly 
becomes as harrowing as if they were in a 
Nazi concentration camp, with no escape in 
sight. Happily, our protagonists are 
rescued, with the aid of magic and cunning, 
by the kindly but mysterious Isak.
In many ways, Fanny and Alexander is a 
major departure for Bergman. First, the evil 
that Bergman depicts has a recognizable
locus, and is usually external to the charac­
ters; one can identify villains, and not just 
wail that the universe is cruel. Second, Berg­
man here grants a greater power to love than 
usual; in the typical Bergman movie, love is 
not only pitifully inadequate in the face of a 
cruel universe, but usually, when it sours, 
becomes the source of the deepest misery. In 
contrast, the love among the members of the 
Ekdahl family is so powerful that it is capa­
ble of giving evil a good fight, and in the 
final reunion scenes is overwhelming. %,
Finally, never before has Bergman so 
firmly embraced the material pleasures of 
life. The Ekdahl’s wealth allowed them to 
live among warm, lush furnishings and to 
eat sumptuous meals in splendid style; this 
is contrasted with the stark, cold, underfur­
nished and undernourished existence with 
the Bishop. In the later scenes, clutter even 
becomes a moral force.
Fanny and A lexander pays homage to the 
theater in many ways. It begins with a party 
for theater people following a Christmas, ^ 
during which Oscar, choked with emotion, 
gives a speech telling how much the theater 
means to him. The structure of the story is 
very? Shakespearean, as are the matching 
speeches of Oscar at the beginning and Gus­
tav at the end. Significandy, when Oscar is 
mortally stricken, he is in the midst of 
rehearsing the role of Hamlet’s father’s 
ghost, and later Oscar’s ghost appears to 
both Alexander and Helena.
In addition, Emilie’s plight upon realiz­
ing her new husband’s wickedness mirrors + 
Nora’s in Ibsen’s A Doll House, and referen­
ces to Strindberg abound. The magic — and 
power — of the theater are also invoked 
when Alexander encounters a mysterious 
puppet-maker, who rather cruelly frightens 
the boy at an unpropitious moment. It is 
also significant that the performances Berg­
man has drawn from his characters are, 
instead of being naturalistic as we have 
come to expect, quite histrionic, even to the 
point of being declamatory. In sum, this 
movie is to Bergman as The Tempest is to ? 
Shakespeare.
Some of my friends have seen Fanny and 
Alexander twice, and report that it holds up 
on a second viewing. For so rich and 
thoughtful a film as this, such a claim is 
quite believable. For the less dedicated, one 
viewing will probably be enough. I can 
assure it will not be too much.
All kinds of films found 
throughout city theatres
continued from page 11
land two blocks past the Giant Eagle, turn 
left on Craft, and there you are.
When school is in session, CMU and Pitt 
have active film programs. At CMU, films 
are shown in Doherty Hall 2210, with separ-
• ate series on Thursday, Friday, Saturday and 
Sunday. Admission is $1.00 with a CMU ID, 
and $1.25 without one. You can pick up a 
film schedule at the Skibo information desk. 
The Pitt film selections are usually a bit 
more interesting than those shown at CMU. 
Their films are shown in two places: the 
David Lawrence Auditorium and the Multi- 
Purpose Room of their Student Union. 
Admission is $1.00 with a Pitt ID, and $2.00 
without. Schedules are available from the 
Pitt Program Council (in their Student 
Union, phone 624-3344).
Finally, there must be some mention erf 
the city’s two best chain theaters, the Manor 
(1729 .Murray Avenue, 421-1633)at the inter­
section of Forbes and Murray in Squirrel 
Hill, and the Squirrel Hill (5824 Forward, 
421-7900) near the Poli Restaurant. Both
theaters are owned by Cinemette, and their 
admissions, including bargain matinees 
and night showings, follow their city-wide 
policies.
There are other places to see good movies, 
of course — in local libraries, at the smaller 
colleges, etc. — but the ones mentioned are 
the most important ones for other than first- 
run Hollywood films. These theaters are 
doing a great job in bringing quality films>* 
to Pittsburgh; show your gratitude with 
your attendance, and you’ll be rewarding 
both them and yourself.
Iron Maiden rocks hard
continued from page 11
When it comes to rock, bands don’t come 
much heavier that Iron Maiden, and Piece 
of Mind is an excellent example of mind 
twisting metal at its best. The album is cer * ~ 
tainly well worth its purchase price — as the 
ads promise, it’ll blow your- brains, out - /

---------------------------------------------------

Sports.
Klausing third best coach in nation
RIC MEDROW
Tartan Sports Editor
There are only two men on any level of 
ollege football who have won more often 
han CMU head coach, Chuck Klausing.
)on’t read that sentence again. You read it 
orrectlv the first time. Wittenberg’s Dave 
Maurer and Oklahoma Sooners’ Barry 
iwitzer have better winning percentages, 
however, Klausing’s 101-20-2 record is bet- 
er even than Joe Patemo’s .825 winning 
>ercentage.
Nine televised games
Camera focuses on CMU
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS Warner Cable is that they are getting into
Tartan Staffwriter
“It’s a big thrill for everyone, especially 
the players.”
That’s how co-captain Joe Nardone 
summed up the fact that three 1983 CMU 
football games will be televised by Home 
Sports Entertainment (HSE), a regional div­
ision of Warner Cable.
In a move to cover more local sports, HSE 
will show as many as nine CMU events this 
year. These events include football games 
against Hiram, September 24, and tenta­
tively scheduled telecasts Homecoming Day 
and versus Case Western Reserve. Also 
included are three basketball games, and 
three events to be chosen by HSE.
Athletic Director James E. Banner said, “I 
am very excited, because I think it will give 
us good exposure for a good athletic pro­
gram. It will be exciting for the athletes and 
the university.”
Camegie-Mellon will receive an undis­
closed amount of money for the telecasts, the 
amount depending on how many events are 
televised.
Banner added, “The nice thing about
the homes with local sports. Any exposure, 
whether free or paid, is good for the school.
“Coaching-wise and execution-wise the 
football here is just as good as at the bigger 
schools, such as Pitt and Penn State. Some­
times it’s better. Their athletes are a litde 
bigger and a litde faster, but the quality is 
just as good at this level.”
Nardone added to that. “We have a good 
program up here. When I was a sophomore, 
we played on local channel 11 against 
Duquesne, and it was a great thrill. Since 
then, the exposure has gotten better but still 
not good. It’s about time small college foo- 
ball gets the recognition it deserves. It’s good 
quality football.”
HSE covers Pirate baseball, as well as 
other local sports. The network televises 
from seven p.m. until the early morning 
each night. Last year they televised a CMU 
basketball game and a tennis match. The 
basketball game was telecast seven umes. 
According to Bruce Gerson, this will not be 
the case this year. The football games, due to 
NCAA law, will be shown on delayed 
telecast.
photo by Erik Horn
wry smile, “but then, I’m a bad picker. Oth­
erwise, I’d be a rich gambler. We may sur­
prise a few people.”
Among the surprises Klausing has in 
store for his opponents, is a revival of the 
old-fashioned wing offense — that is, an 
offense using three running backs, as 
opposed to the one-running-back, I- 
formation that most colleges now use.
Sports goes academic
Fans challenged with quiz
By MARIA RIVAS
Tartan Staffwriter
Here’s a little quiz to test your knowledge 
the women’s field hockey team here at
1. Can you name the field hockey team 
who finished 6-0 in their last league season?
2. What field hockey team won the Pen- 
nwood West Conference Championship
last year?
3. What school is hosting the Pennwood 
West Conference Invitational this year on 
September 16th?
The answer to all three questions is . . . 
1 hat’s right! — CMU’s women’s field 
•hockey team.
Since last season the team has gone 
through some major, changes; among these
are the loss of two players, Beth McElver and 
Lynn Kelly, both of whom graduated last 
year. Two players have also been placed on 
the injured list.
Their coach, Joan Maser. feels that “skill- 
wise, the players I have are good. We need 
time for the players to get accustomed to 
each other on the playing field.” Players 
expected to guide the offensive line are Peggy 
Kenneflick, Lynn Otto — one of two team 
captains — and Maria Kozo. Mary Ann 
Sacco — the other captain — and Janet 
Mitzger are prepared to lead the defense.
Although 13 of the 23 players are new this 
year, Maser is optimistic that the team will 
do as well or better this season. She says, 
“There are a number of impressive new 
players who will definitely be able to play 
.the void positions.” . , . . > . ,Daina Baumhammers works out in goal.
More facts: He’s never had a losing sea­
son. He’s been named ABC-TV’s Small 0)1- 
ege (bach of the Year. He’s been featured in 
Sports Illustrated. He’s been selected PAC 
Coach-of-the-Year” four times. He’s taken 
nis teams to both the Banana Bowl and the 
Lambert Bowl.
What does Klausing think about all this? 
What you’ve done before has no bearing on 
¦now and on the future. I just don’t think a 
¦person should wear a badge,” says Klausing. 
{©foe adds with a wry smile, “Maybe someday 
when I’m old, I’ll sit and reflect and be 
proud.” So much for past facts and 
numbers.
Obviously, Klausing looks toward the
future. Several weeks ago, a poll of coaches 
and media had the audacity to pick Klaus­
ing and the Tartans as a fourth place team 
with Hiram at the top. Klausing’s reaction 
to the poll was simple. “I voted for Hiram. 
They deserve to be picked first after winning 
last year, and they have most of their team 
back.” Klausing paused while thinking, 
then he added with that same twinge of a
Klausing’s strategy' should keep opponents 
off balance. However, Klausing is quick to 
remind you that “formations don’t win 
games, people do.” Klausing is a modest 
man, but he trapped himself with that state­
ment. Earlier this year, Klausing was quoted 
as saying, “I think ‘hungry’ is a word for this 
team. They want to have success; they 
haven’t had it yet.”

---------------------------------------------------

Martial Art Club
Head Instructor 
Robert Opalsky 
Special Guest
Special Guest Instructor 
Curtis Smith
Meets at Thistle Hall 
CMU Gymnasium 
Monday — 8:00 - 9:30 p.m. 
Wednesday — 7:30 - 9:00 p.m.
Beginners are welcome
Page 14—The Tartan—September 13, 1983
Oracle Chico predicts Miami-Dallas Super Bowl
By JEFFREY BERGMAN
Tartan Staffwriirr
NFC East
1) Dallas Cowboys — Who else? They are 
still the best coached team and are deep at all 
positions. Danny White survived the chal­
lenge of NFC Championship game hero 
Gary Hogeboom. The defense is not that 
awesome but can do the job as long as there 
are no injuries to the linebackers. If it doesn’t 
‘snow’ in the Lone Star State they will at 
least make another trip to the NFC title 
match.
2) New York Giants — Rookie Bill Par- 
cells still has the Crunch Bunch back on 
defense led by Harry Carson, Brian Kelley, 
Terry Jackson, and underrated George Mar­
tin. Their problems on offense are confus­
ing but should be settled. The Giants have 
to decide whether Rob Carpenter or Butch 
Woolfolk will carry the burden of support 
for number one quarterback Scott Brunner.
3) St. Louis Cardinals — An underrated 
team with a good combination of youngs­
ters and veterans. The defense will suffer 
from the loss erf busted E.J. Junior, but the 
addition of A1 Baker from the lines will 
help. Their biggest problem is the unproven 
Neil Lomax.
4) Washington Redskins — I’m follow­
ing the pattern of the last three years and 
picking that the Redskins won’t make the 
playoffs after a Super Bowl victory. Losing 
Tony Peters and Jeris White doesn’t help 
things either.
5) Philadelphia Eagles — The Eagles are 
rebuilding and Coach Marion Campell is 
banking on inexperienced men like Mike 
Quick, Mike Haddix, and Vyto Kab to get 
the job done. Jerry Robinson is the only 
returning linebacker from the 1980 Super 
Bowl team.
NFC Central
1) Minnesota Vikings — The genius in 
the dome, Bud Grant, just needed one year 
to adjust his squad to the artificial turf of the 
Metrodome. This team has quiedy built two 
solid lines, and rookies Walker Lee Ashley 
and Joey Browner will improve the defense. 
Tommy Kramer has plenty of firepower 
Hath Darren Nelson and Ted Brown as 
backs.
2) Green Bay Packers — The Pack was 
back last year but defensive depletions could 
hurt Starr’s crew. Mike Buder and Casey 
Merril both jumped ship to the rival league 
while another lineman Ezra Johnson has 
performed pretty lousy so far. However, the 
offense will again be powerful.
3) Chicago Bears — Now that coach Mike
The IM Board and Commissioners
Dikta has assembled an offense to comple­
ment a hard-hitting defense, the Bears 
will now be on the move. The big O is led by 
second quarterback Jim McMahon, a happy 
Walter Payton, Olympic sprinter Willie 
Gault, and Jimbo Covert on the line. The 
strength of the defense is the line led by 
fearsome rushers A1 Harris and Dan Hamp­
ton. If this team jells, it could be a powerful 
force in the NFC.
4) Detroit Lions — Gone from the defense 
are two key players: captain Stan White and 
sack man A1 Baker. Replacements are not 
their equal. David Hill is no longer the 
tight end but Eric Hippie and Billy Sims are 
still in the backfield. Not enough quality 
overall.
5) Tampa Bay Bucaneers — How can you 
win when your starting quarterback is Jerry 
Golsteyn?
NFC West
1) New Orleans Saints — It’s time the 
Bum leads the wandering Saints to the 
promised land. His killer defense is one year 
older which should give the young crew 
added strength. Ken Stabler is still running 
the offense which eliminates the bomb, but 
George Rogers looks strong again at half­
back. The offensive line has also improved.
2) Atlanta Falcons — The team that got 
knocked out in the first round last year looks 
to be a bit improved but is not Super Bowl
quality. Rookie defensive end Mike Pitts 
will improve a defective pass rush and a 
weakened defense. Coach Dan Henning has 
put the air back into the passing attack, so 
you’ll once again see Jenkins, Jackson, and 
Miller in the end zone. Must win the div­
ision to make the playoffs.
3) Los Angeles Rams — This team isn’t as 
bad as everybody says. Vince Ferragamo 
leads a high powered offense that contains 
rookie Eric Dickerson and receivers like Pres­
ton Dennard, Mike Barber, and George 
Farmer. The other side of the line is the 
problem. Gary Jeter should help the 
Youngbloods improve things.
4) San Francisco 49ers — Montana with 
Dwight Clark and Wendell Tyler looks 
tough, but the defense couldn’t stop a thing 
last year. With Carlton Williamson and 
Jack Reynolds hurt, things look down.
Playoff picture
Jets over Seahawks
Dolphins over Chargers
Jets over Steelers
Dolphins over Jets
Packers over Giants
Packers over Saints
Cowboys over Vikings
Cowboys over Packers
Super Bowl XVIII in Tampa, Miami 21
Dallas 10
Young team looks to futurePrésidait
Vice-President
DTD
TX
Dorms
At Large
Brian Taubler 
Mark Sohtz 
Mark Sohtz 
Rob Schnorr 
Sean Quinn 
Anthony Johls 
v Steven Pleva 
Stanford Rivers
By MARGARET WISMER
Tartan Staffurriter
With an influx of eager rookies joining 
just three veterans, this year’s women’s inex­
perienced volleyball team is preparing for 
their first match versus Penn State at Fayette 
on September 20th. According to veteran 
coach Jane Fisk, they anticipate building a 
strong game as they leam to work together. 
Fisk is pleased with the enthusiasm of the 
young players and hopes they can spur the 
team on to a winning season, as well as form­
ing the core of the team in the future.
All of the girls have high school varsity 
volleyball experience and simply must get 
used to working as a unit. Practicing since 
August 30th, the team has been drilling a 
basic “pass, set, hit” offense that will be 
varied to include multiple attacks as the sea­
son progresses. Fisk points out that the vete­
ran players are the best hitters when playing 
the front line. With practice she hopes her 
team will improve on their jumping and 
blocking and adds that height will be a use­
ful asset this year.
The team has worked on endurance skills 
to make them quicker at the net; while their 
final task will be to polish their form on the
serving line. Fisk describes the freshmen as 
real “ballgetters” and will assist in the back­
field in “digging” the ball out. She believes 
the team is better than last year’s. However, 
she concedes they will “lose some while the 
newcomers are learning the system.”
The schedule includes a couple of tough 
matches against Division I teams Duquesne 
and Indiana University of Pennsylvania. 
The team doesn’t expect to beat the tough 
upper division teams, but does plan to make 
them work. y
In Penn wood West Conference play 
they’re looking forward to exciting matches 
with CalTech, which has two six foot play-* 
ers and last year’s champs, Seton Hill, with 
whom the games are consistently close. The 
team will also participate in the Thiel Col­
lege tournament in October which Coach 
Fisk believes will be a good learning expe­
rience. Captain Janet Starika feels that this 
team should go at least .500. Starika says the 
team “is great for being so young.” 
According to Coach Fisk “we have a 
chance to have a good team because they’re 
willing to work hard and they’re smart. The 
players know what you want them to do and* 
they do it.”
“J. J.” strikes again.photo by Erik Horn
-—Research by Sean Quinn
Grads 
Women 
Touch F-hall 
Majors 
Intermediate 
Co-Rec 
Volleyball
Al Darr
Gabriela Goncalves
Doug Reinsten 
Anthony Jones
Rob Schnorr

---------------------------------------------------

September 13, 1983—The Tartan—Page 15
JEWISH INFORMATION
"Hotline"
How would you like answers to your questions about Judaism? 
Interested in learning more about your Jewish heritage?
Call our special
JEWISH INFORMATION HOTLINE 521-3718
All questions large and small will be given our fullest attention.
All services are free 
The Jewish Information Hotline is a project of the Benjamin 
Olender Foundation for the Furtherance of Jewish Education.
PREGNANT? Call ATA 
Let's talk about your options.
HOTUNE; (412) 731-2420 
PREGNANCY TESTING: 391*4706 
908 Penn Avenue, Downtown 
8-10 a.m. W; 11 a.m.-1 p.m. 
MTTFS
Free and confidential informa­
tion, counseling, pregnancy 
testing and related services
ALTERNATIVES TO ABORTION 
INC
a non-profit organization
FURNISHED & UNFURNISHED APARTMENTS
3 Different Locations 
Intercom, Total Security 
Within walking distance
A.R. Building Company 
361 -5792
j Linebacker Bachik denies Dukes in key to Tartan victory
Bv DON EGGERT
Tartan Staffivriter
CMU football fans left South Side Sta­
dium happy Saturday night, as the Tartans 
beat crosstown rival Duquesne, 14-11. After 
jumping out to a 14-3 lead, the Tartans were 
hard pressed to hold back the Dukes, who 
mounted a determined second half effort 
¡¡that fell just short.
Head Coach Chuck Klausing credited the(
victory to “a team in good shape that was 
really hitting hard.” He added, “I’m veryS
 proud and happy, and this was a good open­
ing game for us. We had a great team effort. ”
B Gnos teams fumbled the ball on their first 
| tnCCrCClnACc But then the “White Team”
I backfield platoon got things going. With
¦ junior Dave Zito at quarterback, senior 
Gerard Sansosti at halfback, senior captain 
Jim Morrison at fullback, and senior Joe 
Vasaloni at flanker, the stage was set. CMU’s
• l first scoring drive covered 71 yards in 14 
I plays, and was capped by Zito’s 3-yard 
I touchdown run with 2:37 left in the first 
Sf quarter.
The second quarter saw the other back- 
*l|iield set, called the “Go Team,” get its 
chance. Playing on the Go Team were 
sophomore Joe Mollica at quarterback, jun­
ior Mike Sarverick at halfback, sophomore 
Victor Bolanmd at fullback, and senior Brad 
Huwar at flanker. It didn’t take very long for 
them to get started.
With 9:56 left in the half, they began a 74 
yard march down the field that ended over 
five minutes later when Mollica scored from 
the one. Passes sparked the drive, including 
l^two to junior Roger Roble for 10 and 21 yards, 
and an 11 yarder to sophomore David 
Richards. Huwar added a powerful 10 yard 
run to the drive.
Mollica runs through the gaping hole in Duquesne’s defense during Saturday’s game.
The Tartan defense did a superb job, too. 
The Dukes were virtually shut down on 
offense until the last several minutes of the 
first half. After a 36 yard kickoff return, they 
were helped by a 15 yard penalty, the only 
Tartan penalty of the game. The most 
important play of the drive came with 1:41 
to go in the half, when the Dukes faked a 
field goal and ran 18 yards, barely getdng 
the first down at the Tartan 11 yard line. 
However, with third down and 5 yards to go 
at the 6, Duquesne was penalized for hold­
ing, and had to setde for a 37 yard field goal.
With a 14-3 halftime lead, it looked as if 
CMU had things wrapped up. But the 
Dukes controlled the football the entire 
second half and turned the game into a
thnller. Starting at their own 5 yard line 
after a well-placed punt by Mike O’Ship, the 
Dukes moved 93 yards before CMU stopped 
them at the 2 yard line. Scott Bachik 
deflected a fourth down pass in the end zone 
to stop the Duke drive. Linebacker Bachik 
was named player of the game by WRCT 
radio.
The Tartans couldn’t move the ball, 
though, and were forced to punt from the 
end zone. O’Ship shanked his punt, and 
suddenly the Dukes had another chance. 
This time, they weren’t to be denied. A 20 
yard pass from Duquesne quarterback 
Trace Bocan to Jim Radermacher was fol­
lowed by a 2 point conversion pass to Pedro 
Bowman, and with 9:28 remaining in the
Photo by Joe Kuefler
game the score was 14-11.
The final outcome was determined with 
3:03 left, when senior defensive back Jim 
Chrise recovered a wildly bouncing Duke 
fumble. Duquesne had no dme outs remain­
ing, and all CMU had to do was run out the 
clock. The game was finally locked up with 
1:41 remaining, when Morrison ran for the 
only CMU first down in the second half.
Tartan Tattlers - With Saturday’s victory, 
CMU took the lead in the all-dme series 
with Duquesne, with 6 wins, 5 losses, and a 
de.. : Coach Klausing increased his winning 
record in season openers, pushing his record 
to 6-2. . . The Tartans will take on Grove 
City College at 1:30 p.m. next Saturday, 
here.
I
1photo by Joe Kuefler
Center Marie Brado snaps football for Tartans

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16—The Tartan—September 13, 1983
If the information on your 3-D form 
was incorrect, and you would like the 
correct information printed in the 
C-Book, fill out the following form and 
return it to the A Phi O mailbox 
behind the Skibo Desk.
Name___________Major________Vr.
Local Address________________Phone
Permanent Address______________________j
Cancer strikes 120,000 people in our work force every year. Although no 
dollar value can ever Pe placed on a human life, the fact remains that our 
economy loses more than $10 billion in earnings every year that cancer 
victims would have generated Earnings they might still be generating if they 
had known the simple facts on how to protect themselves from cancer.
Now you can do something to protect your employees, your company, 
and yourself . call your local unit of the American Cancer Society and ask 
for their free pamphlet, "Helping Your Employees to Protect Themselves C 3 
Against Cancer.” Start your company on a policy of good health today!
American Cancer Society
St. Basil'sORTHODOX CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP
Discussion and Worship
Wednesdays, 7:30-8:30 p.m., Skibo 39
Student contact: Nicholas Klipa 578-4664
Last year's tennis domination resought
By PAULINE KRAMER be playing 6 singles — 3 doubles rather than
Tartan Features Editor the conventional 3 singles — 2 doubles con-
Today at 3 o’clock, CMU’s women’s ten- ference format, 
nis team embarks on a tough quest: not only Last year’s MVP and co-captain Bridget 
to retain the Pennwood West Conference Kyne will return to her familiar number one
crown, but to have everyone win, as they did slot. The returning first doubles team of
last year, to be able to claim individual as Liza Reed and co-captain Pauline Kramer
well as team supremacy. will be paired again and will also split to
The Tartans lost their second and third play singles. Senior Beth Dougherty and
singles players (to academic time constraints junior Laurie Arendas will play #2 doubles
and graduation, respectively) out of the 5- again and will likewise split for the 3 out-of-
position roster. Fortunately, freshman Darla ' conference matches.
Messick and junior Lorena Miller may be Coach Bush is having a tough timemak- 
the replacements Coach Mark Bush is ing a final decision on positions, in light of
searching for. tought pre-season play from
Today against out-of-conference oppo- sophomores Leslie Ingles, Martha Witte
nent W7est Liberty College, the netters will and newcomer Cathy Dankocsik.
Soccer looks promising
By SCOTT BOZIC
Tartan Staffwriter
As head coach of the CMU soccer team, 
Nick Gaudioso has a lot to look forward to. 
With seven starters returning, including 
four All-Conference players, experience 
should take this team far. However, with 
only one senior on the squad, this young 
team still has room for growth.
Captain Neal Frink, a junior standout 
who made the All-PAC team in both his 
freshman and sophomore years, leads the 
team. Cohort and sophomore Charles Lock- 
head, a freshman team MVP and All-PAC 
choice, w ill also be sharpening his leader­
ship skills.
Coach Gaudioso feels that his squad can 
compete with any team on the tough sche­
dule the Tartans have this year. When des­
cribing this year’s team, he used the words 
“hard-working,” “experienced,” “desire,” 
“confidence” and “enthusiasm” quite often.
Neal Frink is also quite confident about 
the upcoming season, pointing out that 
“although the team is young, it is expe­
rienced and [we] should do real well once we 
start playing together more.” In fact, he 
went as far as to predict a top three finish in 
the conference this year.
Although Gaudioso is obviously con­
cerned with the team’s conference play, he is 
equally concerned with non-conference 
games. Noting that “all games count,” he is 
looking forward to games with Pitt, 
Slippery Rock, Frostburg St. and Robert 
Morris.
In addition to Frink and Lockhead, the 
team is bolstered on defense by stopper Alex 
Tomlinson, a sophomore who was an 
honorable mention All-PAC pick last year, 
as well as defender Scott Ritter, the team’s 
only senior.
Sophomore Sam Montague is the team’s 
new goalie this year, a spot vacated by injur­
ies to junior Neil Schlisserman and senior 
John Willis. Coach Gaudioso is not worried 
about the job in goal though, describing 
Montague as “a tremendous athlete.”
Sophomore Ted Anderer and freshman 
Doug Anderson will play the forward posi­
tions, a combination which pleases Gaudi­
oso, as the two work well together.
Junior Owen Ranta, who was All-PAC as 
a freshman, is starting his third year as a 
midfielder, with freshmen John McNamara 
and Ned O’Byme filling out the rest of 
squad.
With so much experience on such 
young team, this is the team to watch in the 
PAC.
Last year’s first doubles combo, 
netters to the top this
]
“Quitting
isa
snap.”
“I’m gonna help you 
break the cigarette habit 
with my Larrv Hagman 
Special Stop Smokin' 
Wrist Snappin’ Red Rub­
ber Band. Get one free 
from your American 
Cancer Society.”

---------------------------------------------------

JOE FRESHMANby Mark Levine
(5f mt NO LI6HTS, No sciuens^N NO QLIM05, WINDOWS OR, FORNITORE.
.OUR. HOT WAT£*'S COLD, ANO 00». I 
V COLD W/iT{*.'S GREEN... /
HELLO?
IS THIS PHYSICAL PUNT? 'THIS ts TOE FRtSHtim, IN v QOSS mu *202 ™\W£ HAVE A FEW PfaOiiMS.
I. OUR. fRONT DOOR DOKN'T LOCK, > OJT «E OOM'T R£AUY CAfti 5lMC£ 
IT'S ALSO LAYING OU THÉ FlVOt.
POINDEXTER
£OM€WHe£e INI 
/A MofcEVW)0D 
6APD€MS.
T ZUcPHOhie UN€
LAST!!!
a reuseable 20 oz. school cup
with the Tartan Football Schedule
....with the purchase 
of a medium soft drink
university
dining
service
available at
the TARTAN GRILL
MOREPIZZ A!
***********?????????????????????????** MOREWOOD GARDENS

---------------------------------------------------

If
Page 18—The Tartan—September 13, 1983
Strong team returns
Meckley pushing for National Championship
By DAVE LAFYARIS
Tartan Staffwriter
Three consecutive PAC titles and 37 
straight dual-meet wins are in their past. As 
grand finale, Coach Gary Meckley is hop­
ing for a Division III National Champion­
ship for this squad — a team that didn’t lose 
any runner to graduation last spring. “This 
is a very aggressive team,” stated Coach 
Meckley. “They go to the front of the pack at 
the beginning of the race, and just dare for 
to beat them.”
Besides the nucleus of All-Americans 
John Wessels, Frank Short and Captain 
Kevin Brewer, the Tartans boast a number 
of other strong performers. Senior Chris 
Shafer should consistendy score well for the 
Tartans. Also, a trio of sophomores, Frank 
Matousek, Mark Merlie, and 29 year old 
Tom Bell will help contribute to the varsity 
cause.
One thing that does worry Coach Meck­
ley, however, is injuries. Last year, injuries 
cost the Tartans a chance for a high finish at 
the Division III National Championships. 
This year, the team has been hit early in the 
season with
“.There is a fine line between getting in 
shape and running too much,” stated Meck­
ley. Hopefully the injury trend will reverse 
itself, however, and the Tartans will be able 
to open the 1983 season in good healdi. 
These guys have phenomenal dedication, 
especially considering all of the academic 
pressures at a school like this.” The team has 
been running about 90 miles a week, includ­
ing some training on their rugged home 
course.
Meckley, who is entering his 17 th seasotl 
as CMU’s cross country' coach, is very optim­
istic. “This could be my best team ever.
With eveiyone gunning for the Tartans 
and their impressive streak of 37 consecutive 
dual meets, which dates back to early in the 
1980 season, the harriers have their work cut 
out for them. As Brewer stated, “With all of 
our guys returning, we are looking forward 
to a great season.”
The President’s Athletic Conference 
should provide some strong competition fo*; r 
the Tartans. Both Allegheny and Case- 
Western Reserve are returning strong teams
Cross Country sets sights on nationals.
One buck 
for Bucs 
tickets
By MATT PRICE
Tartan Staffwriter
CMU students can see the Pirates for 
$1.00. For the last four years the Pittsburgh 
Pirates have sponsored college nights dur­
ing which all students showing valid ID’s 
can get into any specified game for one dol­
lar at Three Rivers Stadium gate C. The 
Pirates instigated this idea to let students, 
who are usually low on cash, get into the 
stadium for much less than the usual cost. 
The team does this once in the spring and 
again in the fall so that the hot games down 
the stretch are available to students.
The Pirates publicize the September 12-17 
and 27-29 games by sending out 2500 flyers 
to seventy schools within a hundred mile 
radius of Pittsburgh. Blocks of seats are also 
available to (»liege clubs and organizations.
As we near the end of September, the 
Pirates are in yet another pennant race. So 
see Bill Madlock and Jason Thompson lead 
the Bucs to the playoffs.
B'nai B’rith HiUel Foundation, the Jewish University Center on 
campuses in the Pittsburgh Metropolitan area, announces the 
following for the High Holy Days:
1. Friday, September 16:
2. Saturday, September 17:
5:30 Erev Yom Kippur Dinner, 7:30 Services in the Auditor­
ium cf theJCC (Jewish Community Center) 315S. Belleßeld 
in Oakland. RSVP by Sept. 14. Cost of the meal is $5.25.
Yom Kippur morning services 9:30 a.m. in the OaklandJCC. 
Liberal Services 11:00 a.m. in the Wherret Room, Skibo Hall 
of Carnegie Mellon University. Afternoon service and conclu­
ding service begin at 5:00 p.m. in the Oakland JCC 0NL Y. 
Break the fast dinner following services by reservation. RSVP 
by Sept. 15. 621-8875, Cost 4.75.
•'C r-
photos by Todd Prario ’
The rla«.<dr car nice had to be cancelled last Saturday when the U. S. Marines walked out be­
cause the were not given lunch. ......................................... . ... 1. .¦

---------------------------------------------------

HAAnkA'rirAoCc
classifieds
LOST: Blue Wallet. Return to Security Office, 
jaker Hall. Leave name and number for 
REWARD. Or call Bill, 362-4848.
Needed desperately! 2 tickets to November 20 
Steeler-Viking game. Willing to pay $$$! Call
Gil x4080.
Gandhi, Jedi, Diner, Octopussy, Rocky, Exca- 
ibur, Annie Hall, Conan, Trading Places, 48 
3rs„ Cuckoo’s Nest, Flashdance, Road Warrior, 
Apocalypse Now, Officer 8c A Gentleman, All 
phat Jazz, etc. Original Movie Posters for sale 
Oiousands of titles available. We specialize in 
>ne sheets (27" x 41" posters). For more informa- 
ion write: Roger’s Movie Memories, Box 19208, 
Pittsburgh, PA 15273. Be sure to include your 
iddress, telephone number, and a list of posters 
bat you are interested in purchasing.
Faculty Family living near campus needs student
o cook (nothing fancy) weekday afternoons. 
Days, hours, and salary negotiable. 622-6661 day, 
521-7515 night (after 5:30).
Advisors - For mentally retarded children, adoles­
cents, and adults - Substitute “as needed” posi­
tions. $3.85/hour - 2 years college preferred. E. O. 
|E - Send resume to: I. C. I., 1408 Idlewood Road, 
(Pittsburgh, PA 15205.
Women: Are you an academic bag lady? Over 25, 
in school, new career? Meet over lunch 12-1 
Thursdays starting Oct. 6. Lutheran University 
Center, 4515 Forbes Ave. 682-6886.
Childcare. Is your child lost in a large nursery 
school environment? Experienced woman pro­
vides quality care, full and part-time, for your 
toddlers in Sq. Hill home, near CMU and Pitt. 
Pre-school activities, instruction and meals. 
Excellent references 683-2277.
Flying Fingers word processing. Business or aca­
demic. papers, resumes, cover letters, etc. Student 
rates available. Erika Van Sickel 241-1338.
Foreign Visitors: English lessons for foreigners. 
Qualified instructor will teach English, edit 
theses, help you study for exmas. 361-7094, noon -
9 p.m.
MODELS WANTED for Philip Pelusi design 
team. For arant-garde/new wave hair designs. 
For more information contact Debbe at 261-6150 
Wednesday through Friday.
Violin Lessons. Highly qualified teacher and per­
former will accept students. Juilliard graduate. 
For more information, call Steve at 621-0229.
Come to a Bagel Brunch at CMU Hillel House 
Sunday, Sept. 18 at 11 a.m., 133 Margaret Morri­
son, It’s FREE!
Buy you subscription today to the Pittsburgh 
Ballet Theatre 1983-84 exciting season — Special 
low prices. 281-0360.
Flashdancergram: tops in tasteful entertainment. 
Call 731-8877.
clubs
The Tech Flying Club will meet at 7:30 p.m. on 
Thursday, September 15 in Skibo 112. All stu­
dents, faculty and staff with an interest in avia­
tion are encouraged to attend.
AIESEC (The International Asociation of Stu­
dents in Economics and Business Management) 
holds meetings every Wednesday in Room 11, 
Skibo at 4:30 p.m. The first fall meeting will be 
held this Wednesday, September 14th. For 
more information call the AIESEC office in 
Room 57, Skibo at 578-3515.
general
Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs John 
P. Credne will have open office hours for stu­
dents between 3 and 5 p.m. in his office, 610 
Warner Hall, on Wednesday, September 14,1983. 
Students who wish to meet with Dr. Crecine 
should telephone his office, 578-2056, to set up an 
appointment.
President’s Distinguished Lecture Series. Soviet 
dissident Lev Kopelev, a supporter and compa­
triot of Alexande Solzhenitsyn will discuss “State 
and Spirit” at 4 p.m. on Tuesday, September 20 
in the Skibo Ballroom. This first in the series of 
distinguished lectures is free and open to the 
public.
Roman Catholic Students You are invited to join 
a group of your fellow students at the Oratory 
each Wednesday at 6:00 p.m. for Mass, a free 
dinner and fellowship and discussion. Meet at 
Tech House at 5:30 for the walk up to the Ora­
tory. Call Fr. Bryan at 681-3181 or Pat at 621-2911
Sunday Masses-Hunt Multipurpose Room, 
Folk Liturgy, Saturday, 7:00 p.m. and Sunday, 
10:30 a.m. Coffee and donuts after Mass. 
Weekday masses-CMU’s Chapel, Skibo Rm. 39, 
12:30 noon, Mon.-Fri. Call Fr. Robert English at 
681-3181 for information (confession, etc.).
What sits on Forbes Avenue, houses the dino­
saurs, exhibits great art, and needs your help? 
Carnegie Institute does! The Museum of Natural 
History and the Museum of Art provide oppor­
tunities for volunteers to assist curators in their 
artistic and scientific activities, to train as public­
ity interns, to serve in the gift shops or work in 
any of a large number of areas in the museum 
world. If you are interested please contact Ailsa A. 
Thompson, Volunteer Coordinator at 622-3318.
Take Charge At 22.
?
In most jobs, at 22 
you’re near the bottom 
of the ladder.
In the Navy, at 
22 you can be a leader.
After just 16 weeks 
of leadership training, 
you’re an officer. You’ll 
have the kind of job 
your education and training prepared 
you for, and the decision-making au­
thority you need to make the most of it.
As a college graduate and officer 
candidate, your Navy training is geared 
to making you a leader. There is no boot 
camp. Instead, you receive professional 
training to help you build the technical 
and management skills you’ll need as a 
Navy officer.
This training is 
designed to instill 
confidence by first­
hand experience. You 
learn by doing. On 
your first sea tour, 
you’re responsible for 
managing the work of 
up to 30 men and the
care of sophisticated 
equipment worth 
millions of dollars.
It’s a bigger chal­
lenge and a lot more 
responsibility than 
most corporations give 
you at 22. The rewards 
are bigger, too. There’s 
a comprehensive package of benefits, 
including special duty pay. The starting 
salary is $17,000—more than most com­
panies would pay you right out of college. 
After four years, with regular promo­
tions and pay increases, your salary will 
have increased to as much as $31,000.
As a Navy officer, you grow, through 
new challenges, new tests of your skills,
NAVY OPPORTUNITY INFORMATION CENTER P.O. Box 5000, Clifton, NJ 07015
W 34n
? I'm ready to take charge Tfell me more about the Navy’s officer programs. (0G)
Name_____________( Please Print I
Address.
City_____
Age---------
State..Zip.
+College/University_
íYear in College. 
?Major/ Minor__
.?GPA_
Phone Number.
(Area CodelBest Time to Call
This is for general recruitment information You do not have to fur­
nish any of the information requested Of course, the more we 
know, the more we can help to determine the kinds of Navy posi tions for which you qualify
and new opportunities 
to advance your edu­
cation, including the 
possibility of attending 
graduate school while 
you’re in the Navy.
Don’t just take a 
job. Become a Navy 
officer, and take charge. 
Even at 22.
Navy Officers Get Responsibility Fast.

---------------------------------------------------

minute
Domino’s Pizza is the 
number one pizza delivery 
company in the world. For 
over 20 years we’ve been 
bringing fast, free 30 
minute pizza delivery to 
your home, campus, 
business or base, all across 
the country. Domino’s 
Pizza provides convenience 
and top quality nutritious 
meals.
Hours:
Sun-Thurs. 
11 am-3am Fri. & Sat.
Fast, Free Delivery
310 N. Craig St. 
Phone: 681-1700
Our drivers carry less 
than $20.00.
Limited delivery area
©1983 Domino’s Pizza, Inc
You know you can expect 
the best because... 
Domino’s Pizza Delivers"!
Two free cups of PepsJ 
with any pizza.
One coupon per pizza. 
Expires: Specpia
Fast, free delivery 
310 N. Craig St. 
Phone:681-1700
Free 
cups
Order a Pepsi with your 
pizza and keep the free 
16 oz. cup and lid.
Cups are reusable and 
dishwasher safe. No 
coupon necessary. 
While supply lasts!
Fast, Free Delivery
310 N. Craig St.
Phone. 681-1700
