The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 36. No. 17CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 1943
SWAC Promtes 
Tech War Activity
Last Tuesday afternoon the Students’ 
War Activities Council established it­
self at its first meeting. This committee 
is an entirely new cog in student activi­
ties, and its purposes, as it set them up, 
are to create more enthusiasm about the 
war effort at Carnegie, to aid existing 
drives, and to organize new campaigns. 
Although this will be largely a student 
organization, it will work hand in hand 
with the present C. I. T. War Committee.
Approximately twenty-two different 
organizations were represented at this 
first meeting, but the committee will not 
be satisfied until every department, fra­
ternity, sorority, and other student group 
is well represented.
The SWAC has every possibility of be­
coming one of the most active student or­
ganizations on campus for the duration. 
They are meeting today to elect officers 
and formulate definite plans in order that 
activities may get under way without de­
lay. The time is 4:30; the place is room 
107, Arts.
English Shakespeare Expert 
Comes To Carnegie Tech
B. Iden Payne, one of the world’s fore­
most authorities on Shakespeare and di­
rector of the Stratford-on-Avon Me­
morial Theatre, has arrived at Tech to 
direct the Drama Department’s annual 
Shakespearean production after a “mili­
tary secret” voyage from England.
The change from British food rationing 
of one egg a month, two pints of milk a 
week, two ounces of bread, etc., to heap­
ed counters and fruits has made a deep 
impression on Mr. Payne. The gradual 
decrease of available food has been so 
ably done over there that only the sud­
den transition really brings the scarcity 
home. The people are fit, though; even 
more, it appears, than when they could 
overeat.
At the inoment, Mr. Payne is hearing 
all the Drama Students read some pas­
sage from Shakespeare to ascertain their 
merits and decide on this year’s produc­
tion.
See editorial Page 2
Blood Deadline Extended
See editorial on page two.
The deadline for registering for the 
Blood Bank has been extended to next 
Friday, February 5. Professor Vincent
G. Parisi, Chairman of the Blood 
Donor Campaign, has announced this 
new deadline since the Red Cross will 
be at Tech a week later than schedul­
ed. Students may register in all col­
leges or secure blanks from their fra­
ternity or club presidents.
Rev. C. J. L. Bates Speaks Today 
About “The Incalculable Japanese”
Tech’s New Freshmen 
Permitted Enlistment 
In Marine Reserves
The Marine Procurement Office an­
nounces that it is now accepting into the 
Marine Corps Reserve for future train­
ing in the Officer Candidates School those 
high school students who, lacking a dip­
loma, have entered the Freshman class. 
Similar programs have been closed by 
other branches, but are still open in the 
Marine Corps.
These men must be seventeen (17) 
years of age and must meet the following 
qualifications:
1. They must have had in High 
School, one (1) year of Alegbra and one 
(1) term of Geometry.
2. They must pass the physical ex­
amination of the Marine Corps.
3. They must be recommended by the 
school and approved by one of the Marine 
Officers after an interview.
Those entering the Reserve will fit into 
any future program of the Marine Corps 
with reference to the college program. 
They will be required to stay in college 
and be in good standing academically. If 
they fail their work or withdraw from 
college, they will be called into the Corps 
as a private.
Because of the difficulties in trans­
portation, the Procurement Office sug­
gests that all applicants have the follow­
ing necessary papers so that their enlist­
ment can be completed with one visit. 
*Each applicant will need a birth cer­
tificate, passport photograph, and five (5) 
letters of recommendation, two (2) being 
from members of the faculty. He should 
also have two copies of his parents’ con­
sent to enlistment signed before a notary.
Queen of Hearts To Reign At J. P.
Bulletin: An all-school election on
Tuesday, February 8, will select the 
“Queen of Hearts” and her two attend­
ants. The candidates up for election will 
be: Ruth Kwall, Mu Alpha Gamma; Judy 
Skeehan, Gamma Phi Sigma; Jean Mac­
donald, Kappa Phi Delta; Jean Wein- 
kauf, Alpha Theta Sigma; Jane Swearer, 
Beta Tau Lambda; Babs Griscom, Beta 
Pi; Betty Langan, Gamma Gamma Gam­
ma; and Ada Marraccini, Alpha Kappa 
PsL There will be election booths in 
Administration Hall, the Arts School, and 
Margaret Morrison, from 11:30 to 1:30.
At the Junior Prom on Saturday, Feb­
ruary 13, will reign Tech’s new sweet­
heart, the “Queen of Hearts” and her two 
beautiful attendants. This dance will be 
the first big all-school event of the second 
semester. Due to war conditions, this 
year’s “J. P.” will be informal and will 
be held in Hotel Schenley from 9 to 1:00 
a. m. Tickets may be purchased at the 
door or from any member of Delta Skull 
at $2.20 per couple.
Bemie Armstrong, who has one of the 
finest dance bands in Pittsburgh will 
make his initial appearance before a Tech 
audience. As a staff on KDKA radio 
station, Bemie Armstrong is particularly 
noted for his smooth, danceable music. 
The band will feature Buzz Asten, one of 
the fine young vocalists on the air.
The Valentine Day theme will prevail 
the dance and the decoration. Following 
the suggestions of Student Council COR­
SAGES will not be permitted. In keep­
ing with the times, street-car schedules
BERNIE ARMSTRONG
. . sends yon at J. P. . .
will be published for the convenience of 
the Prom goers.
Delta Skull, junior men’s honorary, is 
working hard to make this dance the 
highlight of the second semester social 
program. Chairman of the dance is Jim 
Braden, who is being assisted by Hal 
Dickson, Publicity Chairman; Bob Mel- 
lers, Delta Skull prexy; Jim Voelz, Tick­
et Chairman; and Dave Gilman, in ad­
dition to the entire Delta Skull organi­
zation.
LT. T. J. COLLUM
. . . world and R.O.T.C. changed 
during his 3 years at Tech . . .
* * *
Lt. T. J. Collum Leaves 
Tech For Washington
Last Saturday Lt. T. J. Collum of the 
Military Department left for Washing­
ton, D. C., where he will serve in the Of­
fice of the Division of the Army Special­
ized Training Program.
Lt. Collum, the only officer of the Adj. 
General’s Dept, on duty with any 
R. O. T. C. unit, entered the army in 1933 
as a private at Fort Belvoir where he 
stayed four years and graduated from 
the Army Engineer School. At Clark­
son College, his next stop, he spent two 
years in the R. O. T. C. Dept, holding the 
rank of Sergeant. He was then assigned 
to Tech on January 1, 1940 and took up 
the duties of Chief Clerk in the Military 
Dept. In September of that year he re­
ceived his discharge from the Army and 
was called to active duty as a Second 
Lieutenant in the O. R. C. and Asst. 
Professor of Military Science and Tac­
tics at Carnegie Tech. He- was promoted 
to the rank of First Lieutenant in April 
of that year.
“Recruiting for the E. R. C.,” Lt. Col­
lum said, “was my greatest problem;” a 
quick glance at the past year, with the 
confusion it brought, more than cor­
roborates this statement. Lt. Collum is 
to be highly commended for his fine work 
in the military office and for a participa­
tion in social activities which brought 
him an honorary membership in Scab­
bard and Blade. Lt. Collum was a par- 
particularly important member of the 
Military Department, and his absence will 
be keenly felt. However, no successor has 
been named as yet, and, until one is ap­
pointed, the non-commissioned officers 
will carry on.
Tech Records Go On Sale
You will see them in the Beanery— 
right near the door, or in the Administra­
tion building—in the front hall. They 
will be there from 11:30 to 1:30 today.
Who are they? They are the members 
of the Student Council Special Commit­
tee. What are they doing? They are sell­
ing the Kiltie Band-Men’s Glee Club re­
cordings of Carnegie Tech songs, that 
have been long awaited by the student 
body. The records are seventy-five cents 
($.75) apiece, standard price for twelve 
inch discs. All the songs are on one rec­
ord, a fitting remembrance for all Tech 
students.
Today at 11:30 in the Little Theater, 
the Reverend C. J. L. Bates, Assistant 
Minister of the Shady Side Presbyterian 
Church will speak on “The Incalculable 
Japanese.”
Born in Japan in 1910, the Reverend 
Bates lived there until 1929. While in 
Japan, he attended both public and high 
school and the Canadian Academy. His 
father was then president of the West 
Japan College in Kobe, Japan. In 1929, 
he went to Toronto, Canada, and there at­
tended the University of Toronto. After 
spending some time in this country, the 
Reverend Bates went back to Japan for 
a year in 1937 and also lived for a time 
in China.
His talk on “The Incalculable Jap” will 
deal with the history of the'Japanese peo­
ple, both legendary and factual. He will 
also discuss the underlying philosophy 
which determines their thinking, the in­
fluences of the Chinese in the Eighth 
Century, of the Europeans in the Twelfth 
and Thirteenth Centuries, «and of the 
Americans, and Europeans in the Nine­
teenth and Twentieth Centuries.
Many Tech students are already famil­
iar with him through attendance at the 
Shady Side Presbyterian Church and at 
his Wednesday evening discussion groups 
sponsored by the Tecknon Club. In these 
discussions Reverend Bates has led talks 
on Japan, Bible study, the place of re­
ligion in modem life, and next week will 
discuss the topic, “Marriage.”
Singers to Present 
Dr. O’Brien’s Operetta
Marking the premiere of a work by Dr. 
J. Vick O’Brien, head of the Department 
of Music, Romany Road, a light opera in 
three acts, will be presented at Mount 
Mercy on February 10, 11,12, at 8:30 p. m.
The libretto, written by Thomas B. 
Kennedy, deals with the fortunes and 
mishaps of a band of gypsies encamped 
on the banks of the Potomac, near Wash­
ington, D. C. A committee of Senators 
is deputized to oust the gypsies and the 
arising complications supply the plot for 
the operetta.
The plot, while light and flippant, ic 
not strained to improbability. The mu^ic 
is typically O’Brienesque, abounding in 
beautiful melodies and lyric qualities. 
This work of serious proportions and ex­
cellent craftsmanship is sure to appeal 
generally.
The Mount Mercy Glee Club, directed 
by Sister Aden, and the Tech Men’s Glee 
Club will handle the choral parts.
There will be an addmission fee of sixty 
cents.
JP.i<flUlr Action!
Techites May View 
Games in Dark Gym
The game’s on! A twist, a fast break, 
and Brinn has the ball! He dribbles mad­
ly down the floor. It’s a critical mo­
ment, but wait—hold it— there’s the air­
raid alarm. It looks like the gym will 
have to be blacked out. Yes, they are 
shutting off the lights now.
Carnegie is prepared for this very pos­
sible situation. When the bright lights 
go out, the dim lights will go on. A1 Min- 
netti, known to every Techite who has 
ever cheered at a football game, will be 
there. He’ll keep our Tartan spirit up. 
And they’ll have a piano, too. A little 
singing, some more yelling, and before 
we know it, the blackout will be over.
The game’s on. Brinn speeds down the 
floor, pivots, and sinks it! The game’s on 
—on ioe.
See editorial Page 2

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 1943
For Your Immediate AttentionmAnMMIrFeNcI
The typical reply, when a Tech student is asked to aid in the war effort, is, “I 
really want to help but I can’t afford to” or “It takes a whale of a lot of rubber 
bands and paper clips to do any good; I’d like to feel that what I’m doing is worth 
the effort.”
So you want to do something worth while—something you can “afford”? Well, 
here it is—go to the Bureau of Recommendations or to the office in Arts or Maggie 
Murph and register for the Blood Donor Service—and do it now.
Is It Worth The Effort?
Ask anyone who has given blood if it is worth the effort and you’ll get the 
answer, “What effort?” The truth is—there is nothing to giving a pint of blood. 
There is no pain, no after-effects, nothing except a wonderfully virtuous feeling 
of having done something really important toward helping the soldiers who are 
wounded in fighting for our way of life.
About the importance of and need for this life-giving blood there can be no 
question. This week’s Life quotes a chaplain on Guadalcanal as saying, “Thank God 
for blood plasma.” Thousands of lives of soldiers, sailors and marines have been 
already saved by blood plasma collected by the Red Cross. With more action con­
stantly developing in the Pacific, Far East, Africa and eventually in Europe, the need 
for blood plasma is constantly increasing. The Army has asked the Red Cross for 
4,000,000 pints of blood to be made into blood plasma in 1943.
Obviously this need must be met. It cannot be met, however by setting up 
assembly lines, by a congressional appropriation or by any of the methods by which 
other war materials are procured. This material is so vital, so valuable that it 
cannot be bought.
It’s Your’s To Give
You axe the only one who can supply this life-giving blood. This price­
less live-saving blood is yours to givewithout costing you a cent. YOU can 
save the life of some soldier, sailor or marine who is fighting for YOU and 
for your way of life, and you won’t have to change that way of life to do 
it—it won’t cost you a single cigarette nor one coke nor a show nor a trip to 
the Greek’s'.
The Red Cross Mobile Unit will be on campus for six days, beginning February
15. The last time they were on campus they collected 250 pints in two days. These 
figures mean that they will be able to take 750 pints in six days. Until Friday, 
January 29, only 250 students had handed in pledge cards to their department heads. 
At least 500 more must be obtained before the final date. Friday, February 5.
Out of the two thousand students at Carnegie Tech, there should be at least 
1,500 signed up already. There is no valid reason for any less. There are, of course, 
some parents who refuse to sign consent cards, but a number of students who want 
to give have convinced their parents by one means or another.
The SWAC has arranged to see that each fraternity, sorority, honorary and dor­
mitory. which has over 90 per cent of its members pledged to give blood, will re­
ceive a scroll to publicly show that they are doing their part. In addition the Tartan 
will, next week, publish the percentage of donors in each organization.
Don’t let anything interfere with your registering this week for the Blood Donor 
Service. This is the most important thing you could do this week. “Give your blood 
a chance to circulate.”
... Council Minutes .. .
The meeting was called to order at 7:15 
p. m., January 26, 1943.
Absent: Messrs. Boyce, Emberg, Dolan, 
Lindgren, and Thompson and Miss Zonge. 
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
Budget
Mr. Shewitz moved that the budgets 
for the Women’s Guild and Cwens be ap­
proved.
Motion carried.
Social
Mr. Wolff moved that the petition from 
Scabbard and Blade to hold a Military 
Dance March 29, in either Thistle Hall or 
the Gym, from 9 to 1, be approved, with 
the same conditions concerning an ac­
count in Student Council as applied to 
the Soph Hop.
Motion carried.
Mr. Wolff moved that the Newman 
Club petition for the use of Thistle Hall, 
Friday, February 5, be approved.
Motion carried.
Special Committee
Miss Carver read a letter from the In­
ternation Relations Club thanking Stu­
dent Council for the appropriation which 
made it possible for two of its members
to attend a convention.
Publications 
Mr. Shewitz moved that the staff elect­
ed for the Scottie be approved.
Motion carried.
Council Representative On C. I. T. 
Defense Committee 
Mr. Hovis stated that the war program 
on the campus is inadequate. Mr. Snyder 
reported that the new Student War Ac­
tivities Committee is about to inaugurate 
new plans for obtaining scrap, holding 
discussion groups, and promotoing blood 
donations.
OLD BUSINESS 
Mr. Heller reported that his appeal for 
recommendations for improvement of the 
safety on campus had received only one 
reply. He asked that everyone take an 
interest in the matter and submit sugges­
tions.
Mr. Galbraith reported that the Kiltie 
Band-Glee Club records have arrived. He 
put the sale of these records in the hands 
of the Special Committee.
Adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
ELIZABETH BEALL,
Secretary.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the 
staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not 
to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology» Schenley Park, Pittsburgh, Pa.
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2600 PHONE SCHENLEY 4557
¿•E PRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY , ,, _ „
National Advertising Service, Inc. Edjlor sc 9887CM.uPMhbmK.pT.^.uUv. Editor-In-Chief..........................SC. 9887
420 Madison ave. new York. n. y. Business Manager.....................BR. 4759TheCarn g int*nI • Los astuout • S«a fsaICetCn
Entered as secona-ciass matter In the Pittsburgh Post Office under the Act of March 3, 1879. 
Published weekly during school year, except holiday« and examination periods. Subscription Price SI.10 per year.
Editor-in-Chief...........................................................................................Melvin H. Snyder, Jr.
Business Manager ............................................................................................... Wilbur Thomas
Managing Editor....................................................................................................... Jeanne King
Circulation Manager.........................................................................................Chester Feinberg
ISSUE EDITORS
Managing Editor .........................................................................................................Louisa Saul
News Editor..................................................................................................................Elaine Levin
Feature Editor..............................................................................................................Ed Goldstein
Sports Editor................................................................................................................ Don French
Headline Editor...........................................................................................................Gerry Edelson
Charge of Rewrite....................................................................................................Helena Aronson
Copy Editors.............................................................T. J. Harmany, Dave Neitss, Walt Darby
In the past, if you wanted to find out 
how to buy a dog license, how to pass an 
exam, how to manipulate finances (both 
domestic and foreign), how to find a few 
quarts of beer, how to get your fraternity 
pin back from an ex-girl friend, or, in 
short, how to do the impossible, you con­
sulted Ted Nierenberg. T. D. was a mas­
ter, for he had all of the contacts and 
knew all of the angles and short cuts to 
solve any problem.
We first met Ted when he was an ad 
chaser for the Tartan. His biggest ac­
complishment during his freshman year 
was the selling of a full-page ad. Our 
recent investigations, however, show that 
the account is, as yet, unpaid. But that’s 
the way he does things. You cannot say 
that he didn’t get the biggest ad of the 
year. The fact that it was never paid 
for is immaterial!
By constant plugging and salesman­
ship, the end of his sophomore year 
found him spinning complacently in the 
Business Manager’s swivel chair over at 
the Tartan office. No, he didn’t threaten, 
mangle, or murder his predecessor. He 
merely allowed him to graduate. (We 
still suspect that the poor fellow had an­
other year of office!) He had had this 
advancement figured out a full semester 
ahead of-, time. Just careful watching, 
and angles, and contacts . . .
Yesterday Ted left for a brief vacation 
before he joins a unit of the Engineering 
Division of the Army Air Corps. Since 
he is gdne, it may be safe for us to tell 
the intimate details about him. Ladies 
first. In T. D.’s case, the lady lives at 
Bryn Mawr; a Miss Ronnie Ravitch — 
“Ravishing Ronnie” as Ted’s suite-mate 
named her. Check off item one. Item 
two? Well, there just isn’t any more dirt. 
He beers, smokes, and isn’t adverse to 
offering a dirty joke at the regular meet­
ings of the Henderson Hall Sunday Sem­
inar.
Ted is off to the wars now. We may 
seem prosaic, but we must say that we’ll
On The Campus •..
Use Your Cents (Hah)!
The Penny Drive will soon be on. 
Posters are to be distributed which will 
inform everyone of the latest of the War 
Committee’s activities—a drive directed 
toward the pockets and penny hoards of 
of every Techite. A sub-committee, head­
ed by J. C. Ornea and aided by the Stu­
dent War Activities Council is in 
charge of general publicity. S. W. A. C. 
and the War Committee continue to con­
fer, however, and definite instructions for 
turning in your pennies will be published 
by the TARTAN shortly.
Newman Club Mixer Dance
On Saturday, Feb. 6, at nine o’clock, the 
Newman Club will hold the first mixer 
dance of the second semester. Virgil 
Cantini, the former football star, is chair­
man of the dance with Pat Delahony as 
assistant. Catholic students of Pitt, Du- 
quesne, Mt. Mercy and Tech are invited 
to come and dance to their favorite or­
chestras (via the dear old Juke). Come 
on chillun,’ le’s dance.
Ye Olde Discussion Group
I. R. C. which, we are told, means In­
ternational Relations Club, is having’ a 
meeting today in the Recreation Hall of 
Maggie Murph. All students who feel 
the urge to do some discussing on the 
Chapel subject should drop in and dis­
cuss. Starting time is 12:30. So come on, 
Gate, and don’t be late.
The Architects’ Scarab Fraternity 
pledged several new members at the close 
of the last semester. The Scarab is now 
presenting its Annual National Sketch 
Exhibition in the Arts exhibition room. 
“La Premiere” Discussion Group 
(No. 4785)
A general organization meeting under 
the direction of Dr. Chapman will be 
held in Room 229-C of I. H. at 12:30 Tues­
day. Election of officers will be taken up 
and all will be given an opportunity to 
participate. Do you want to be a Presi­
dent? Well, it’s up to you!
MR. TED NIERENBERG
... off to the wars . . .
really miss him. In the same vein, we 
confess that, at times, we thought he was 
a heel; we called him down for pulling 
fast deals. But what he did didn’t seem 
to matter in the least; it was so easy for 
him to pull a quick one on the world. 
For Mr. Nierenberg, we wipe the pretzel 
crumbs off our chin and take a long pull 
on our beer: “To Ted, a great guy!”
9l I/a' AwulaMe?
AXA’s Bard Wants 
Your Masterpieces
Have you always had a burning desire 
to write? Do you stay awake nights 
thinking up fascinating plots for short 
stories tantalizing topics for essays and 
romantic rhymes for poetry? Do you 
keep your genius hidden, afraid that the 
world will laugh when it finds that you 
use your spare time writing? If your an­
swers to all these questions are yes, now 
is the time to act. Forget your fears; 
the world is waiting to read your works.
The BARD, literary magazine publish­
ed each year by Alpha Chi Alpha, wo­
men’s national journalistic 'honorary, will 
print the results of your mental labor. 
Essays, poems short stories even class 
themes that you got a D on may be ac­
cepted for publication. But if you want 
your literary efforts to receive recogni­
tion be sure that you hand them in to Box 
409 at the post office by March 15. The 
BARD will be published about April 1. 
So get busy all you pen-pushers, and get 
your masterpieces in before the deadline.
Note: Novels will not be accepted.
See editorial on this page
CHOOSE YOUR BANK 
WITH A 
THOUGHT TO THE FUTURI 
¦
MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
MIMMR FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE
CORPORATION

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 1943THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
SKI BO SPORTLIGHT
Hoopsters Win, Tanksters Lose
By Don French, Sports Editor;
Luckless Swimmers
Heartbreakers came thick and fast this last weekend when our swimmers jour­
neyed to Cleveland. They were upset both times by a few points which could just as 
easily have been chalked up on Tech’s asset column. Reason for their downfall 
seemed to rest on fate, and fate apparently turned a cold shoulder on the Tartans 
Friday and Saturday. Stu Lee, a consistent winner in the diving and a very 
good freestyler, tangled, with the grip and settled for a hospital bed rather than 
bringing in the deciding points for Tech. On Saturday Venzer, a consistant first 
place man in the 100 yard freestyle, missed his turn and ended up in third place 
rather than first. It was also at this meet that Spangler decided to get sick and 
thus fate took another freestyler from the luckless Tartans.
Hoopsters Fortunate
One of the factors contributing toward the Tartan’s recent successes is the 
ability of a man known to very few at Tech. His name is Ed Milkovich. He has 
been helping Maxie Hannum for the last few weeks by instructing the boys on 
fast breaks, good passing, and tight defense. His name is probably recognized by 
Pittsburgh Sports Enthusiasts due to his brilliant basketball playing while attending 
Duquesne. Two years ago he was “All-American” and last year played for the New 
York “Celtics.”
Home awaiting call to the “Air corps,” he has spent his extra time with the 
hoopsters. In gratitude for his great help the whole squad presented him with an 
autographed basketball last Saturday. Unfortunately for Tech, he is leaving next 
week for the Air Corps. As a farewell, we bid him “the best of luck in the service.” 
Basketball Draws the Crowd
Gate receipts at the basketball games have been four to five times larger than 
last year. This is a sure indication of the students’ interest and the outside fans’ 
interest in this year’s basketball squad.
Your Cooperation Needed
Besides the Skibo’s fighting spirit which we, as a school have been noted for, 
we have prided ourselves on the fact that we have always shown good sportsman­
ship. However, in the last few games our hoopsters have played, our cheering section 
has made considerable noise when our opponents have been on the foul line. This 
hoodlum-like practice only creates ill feeling on the part of our “visitors” and doesn’t 
help our team any. This is a show of bad sportsmanship and will only tend to hurt 
us rather than help. The team members don’t want it and in fact attempt to quiet 
the fans, so we ought to do our part by making no added noise.
JP.i<flUr M *1kei>i Bbude.
Skibo Basketballers Drop Titans, 
Journey To W. & J. Tomorrow
Tech will play both Pitt and Penn State 
again, so anything may happen.
The “victory-mad” Tartans will journey 
to Washington and Jefferson tomorrow 
night to tangle with Coach Senders’ 
Prexies, in full confidence of Winning 
their third straight encounter. Washing­
ton and Jefferson is Maxie Hannum’s fa­
vorite opponent inasmuch as Tech teams 
have held a long-standing jinx over the 
Prexies until recently. “I’d rather we 
win this than any other game,” says 
Maxie.
Washington and Jefferson has another 
aggregation of giants, with 6 feet seven 
inch Hartman leading the pack. Zellar, 
Stewart and the Forquer twins balance 
the other four positions. This outfit em­
ploys a loose man-to-man defense and a 
set of criss-cross figure-eight attack 
plays. This combination shouldn’t worry 
our Tartans, as they solved similar puz­
zles against Pitt and Penn State. Wash­
ington and Jefferson has won five out of 
seven games while Tech was winning 
three and losing three. This tussle should 
result in a rough and tumble affair 
with our gang climbing all over the big 
boys from “little” Washington. This has 
been the case in recent games in which 
the Skibos have averaged nearly fifteen 
personals per entanglement. “Ears” 
Meyer seems to be the most aggressive 
player, having been chased by the ref­
erees numerous times.
With the return of George Marck, sen­
sational Skibo scorer, the squad will have 
full power to shoot at the Prexies. Coach 
Maxie is jubilant over the showing of 
freshman Tommy Culbertson in recent 
games and marks him as the best im­
provement since the start of basketball 
season late in October.
With Hugh “Tiger” Smith’s spectacular 
comeback and Dave Brinn’s consistent 
sharpshooting, our “victory-mad” Tartans 
dropped the towering Titans of West­
minster by a 46-38 count.
Smith, starting the game in place of 
Marck, who was ailing with a strep 
throat, pushed eleven points through the 
nets, while Brinn added another fifteen. 
This combination was too much for the 
New Wilmington tossers, Goldbloom, Mil­
ler and Company and they lost their first 
tilt to Tech in nine games.
Tech jumped to a big 9-2 score in the 
opening minutes with “Smith-Brinn-and- 
reverse” combination working smoothly. 
The Titans, Miller and Goldbloom, using 
tremendous height, came back strong and 
led the Tartans 20-19 at intermission. 
Goldbloom tallied 13 points in this half, 
converting rebounds for fielders.
In the lockerroom, Coach Maxie Han­
num devised a plan to stop the gigantic 
Titans’ height. Therefore, when the cur­
tain went up on the last act Miller and 
Goldbloom were bottled-up by Tech’s 
rugged guards, DeBortoli and Showman; 
and thus Smithy and Davy, with help 
from Meyer and Culbertson iced the con­
test in rapid order.
Tom Culbertson’s goal put Tech in the 
lead a few seconds after the intermission 
period. Meyer flipped in two bunnies and 
a foul and Tommy came back with an­
other brace of swishes. Smith dropped 
one through and “DeBort” hit pay dirt 
on a fast break to give the inspired Tech 
men a 34-28 lead while the clock said 
finish to the third quarter. Smith opened 
the last round with 4 straight tallies and 
, the home team coasted in. This last 
stanza was a hectic scene as foul after 
foul was “noticed” by the referees, Wal­
lace and McGill.
This game proved that a fighting team 
backed by hollering fans can and will 
overcome odds to beat bigger and more 
favored opponents. If this added bit of 
spontaneity was in evidence against Pitt 
and Penn State the outcomes may have 
been of a brighter nature. However,
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
DANCE to BILLY HINDS 
EVERY FRIDAY EVENING 
EVERY SATURDAY EVENING
INFORMAL
$1 per person (plus tax) 
includes midnight supper
HOTEL SCHENLEY
D. U.’s Down Citcom., 
Sigma Nil’s, To Win 
The Basketball Title
By Bill Reamer
The D. U.s gave a repeat performance 
and again copped the all school basket­
ball championship. At no time during 
the playoffs was there any question of 
their superiority, both offensively and de­
fensively. By keeping their denfense 
tight and by feeding the ball to their 
scoring aces, Hanover, Meyers, and Lew­
is, the D. U.s completely overwhelmed 
their opponents. In all their games the 
D. U.s functioned as a team, working the 
ball in and then feeding it to the man 
in the best position to score.
Breaking loose in the first game of the 
playoffs, the D. U.s swamped the Sigma 
Nus 38-11. The Sigma Nus were unable 
to stop the D. U. tide as they rolled up 
the score. Lewis set an all season record 
by dropping in eighteen points during this 
game. Meyers and Hanover kept up 
their scoring by collecting ten and seven 
points respectively. The game was all 
D. U.. From the opening whistle never 
once did the Sigma Nus attempt to take 
the initiative from the D. U.s.
Bouncing back from their defeat by 
the D. U.s, the Sigma Nus attempted to 
stay in the running by downing the pow­
erful Citcom team. This game, however, 
was only a reptition of the game the night 
before. Citcom set a fast pace and kept 
the game going strong. Benko of Citcom 
was by far the outstanding man on the 
floor. Breaking fast, Benko would come 
in under the basket and put the ball up 
for a score. Working hard and fast, the 
Citcom team time and again penetrated 
the Sigma Nu defense and scored. Most 
of the Citcom scoring was done from 
close in to the basket. Citcom capital­
ized on their fast breaks and hard play­
ing. Unable to stem the commuters, Sig­
ma Nu accepted defeat, the final score be­
ing 14-36.
Last Thursday night two evenly match­
ed teams met in what should have been 
a close game. Early in the game the Cit­
com team blew up. Taking advantage of 
this break, the D. U.s poured on the 
pressure and began to run the score up 
as they did in the Sigmu Nu game. The 
Citcom team was definitely off in this 
game for they could not stop the repeat­
ed scoring attempts of Delta Upsilon. At 
many instances during the game near 
riots occured. This is only natural since 
both teams were highly strung and a 
coveted championship was at stake. Un­
able to gain control of themselves the 
Citcom team began to play disorganized 
ball. Finally the Citcom defense col­
lapsed under the surge of the D. U. of­
fensive. Benko of Citcom led the scor­
ing with fourteen points, but his points 
were not enough to give the disheartened 
Citcom team victory. Hanover and 
Meyers again came through and kept 
their reputation as high scorers. Pushing 
the Citcom team until the final minute of 
play, the D. U. took the game 32-21, 
there retaining the championship for an­
other year.
Volleyball starts today and continues 
for six weeks. This year the teams have 
been divided into two leagues.
Lei's go to
ISALY'S
MELK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM CONES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District
6808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
Swimmers Drop Close 
Contests At Cleveland
Carnegie Tech’s beaten and battered 
swimming team threatened twice last 
week to follow the basketball team’s ex­
ample and win for a change. But they 
were forced to stay in the loss column 
by dropping two heartbreakers to West­
ern Reserve and Fenn College. The Re­
serve meet was close all the way with 
Tech leading 36 to 32 just before the last 
race, a 400 yard relay, which is worth 
seven points to the winner and nothing 
to the second (and last) team. If the 
Skibos had obtained just two more points 
earlier in the meet they would have had 
the 38 points required to win, but the 
breaks had gone the other way in sev­
eral close races and our boys didn’t have 
enough left to take the last one. Re­
serve won by ten yards and took the 
meet 39 to 36.
It was pretty much the same story at 
Fenn the next day; even the score going 
into the 400 yard relay was the same ex­
cept that Tech was behind this time. Most 
of the races resulted as they had on 
Friday, but Fenn took a second and a 
third where Reserve had been content 
with two fourth places. The relay was 
close and the lead see-sawed back and 
forth with neither team more than a yard 
ahead at any time. It happened to be 
Fenn’s turn to be leading when the finish 
mark came along and they won by 0.6 
second.
Tech is weak in the 220, 440, and 100 
yard events and needs badly a first-class, 
A-l, long-distance freestyler who can be 
depended upon for two first places per 
meet in these distances. Twenty-seven 
points are offered in these events and 
three of them are automatic for third 
place. Tech took a total of 6 out of 
27 from W. R. and 5 out of 37 from Fenn. 
Disregarding the free points, Tech earned 
5 out of 48 points in these events in the 
two meets. We can’t blame the team or 
any of its members for this lack of win­
ning ability any more than we can blame 
them for not having a million dollars, but 
it just shows why they don’t win.
ON THE RECORD
Today
12:30, Room 157, Arts, Mr. Charles A. H. 
Pearson will supervise this phonograph 
recital:
Trio No. 1 in B-Flat, Op. 99___Schubert
Thursday
12:30, Room 157, Arts, Dr. Frederick 
Dorian will be in charge of this program: 
String Quartet...........................Beethoven
9 Fort Pitt is the Place 
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
ALL
MAKES
$3.00 per
Month
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 19432Ttve (fraruecjie ]plaid
Everybody’s Invited To The 
Council Party On Sat. Feb. 6th
Forget about your ration cards! Just 
board the nearest street car or bus and 
head for the Council Valentine Party, 
February 6th, from eight to twelve, at the 
Union for an evening of fun, food and 
dancing. If your favorite records lie 
somewhere between Benny Goodman and 
Guy Lombardo, you’ll find them in the 
large selection available. In addition, 
those ever-present card fiends may im­
merse themselves in their favorite di­
version. There will also be ping-pong 
and roulette, with prizes offered for win­
ners at roulette and as well as an un­
usual door prize.
Students have complained that dances 
do not provide an opportunity to make 
new friends and that people who do at­
tend dances tend to keep within their 
own circle. This party, originally in­
tended as a substitute for the cancelled 
dance scheduled for January 23, has the 
more important purpose of acquainting 
the night school students with each other.
As most of you know, the Union, Stu­
dent Activities Building, is centrally lo­
cated at Beeler and Forbes Streets. You 
may take either a Forbes or Fifth Ave­
nue street car. If you take the latter car, 
get off at Morewood and Fifth, walk up 
to Forbes, then turn one block to the left 
on Forbes, and behold—the Union. Signs 
will be posted about so you can’t miss 
it.
It is suggested that you mark the date 
of this party on your calendar for the 
committee is making every effort to have 
this affair a real “get-together” event. 
Help spread the word of this party among 
your fellow students for only in such a 
way can we expect it to be the success 
that is hoped for. This will be one of 
the first occasions this year, outside of 
the classroom, to offer the opportunity of 
knowing better the “fellow who sits next 
to you.”
The committee has announced that 
you may bring your friends with you, so 
why not make up a party to share with 
you an evening of unrationed fun and 
enjoyment.
Admission is 75c a couple.
Don’t forget the date. February 6th!
CdUa^L Voice
In the past, we have publicized the 
“Union” week after week and yet the 
same students utilize the many oppor­
tunities for socials which it presents.
Last week we printed a letter from one 
of our Evening students who thought it a 
splendid idea to install Ping-Pong Tables 
and a “Juke” Box in Thistle Hall since 
so many of the students are unfamiliar 
with the “Union.”
Why the Administration should go to 
this extra expense, when the facilities at 
the “Union” are, as yet, hardly “broken 
in,” doesn’t seem to make sense.
The “Union” is centrally located and 
offers a home-like atmosphere, along with 
many extras which most homes can’t of­
fer. There’s a friendly spirit, cheerful 
and decorative furnishings, living room, 
music room, fully equipped kitchen and 
dining rooms, game room and the desired 
Ping Pong tables in the basement.
After all, the first and foremost reason 
for students attending Night School is 
for the education, and next in line possi­
bly the social angle. The facilities are 
here and are free to all registered stu­
dents and it’s up to them whether or not 
they wish to use them.
Student Council is offering one of the 
best known ways of getting acquainted— 
a party in the Union. The above article 
explains it in full and there’s no reason 
now for our writer of last week to prefer 
the movie because he “doesn’t know any­
one on the campus/’
George Washington’s 
Anniversary Dance 
Feb. 20-Thistle Hall
Saturday, February 20 is the sched­
uled date for the Evening Student Coun­
cil “Washington’s Birthday Dance” to be 
held in Thistle Hall. It is the first dance 
to be held this semester and is the oldest 
traditional affair on the campus.
Plans for the dance are well under 
way, and the spirit of former years should 
again prevail at the dance.
Admission is open to all evening, day 
and Defense students, and their friends, 
at $1.10 per couple (tax included). De­
spite the lack of transportation facilities, 
the dance is a good chance for all to come 
out and meet their fellow students and 
forget the worldly troubles momentarily.
This announcement, we know, is a lit­
tle early but it will afford everyone an 
opportunity to keep it in mind and hold 
the evening open. Mark your calendar. 
We will print further details in a later 
issue of the Plaid.
*7o *7<4e CdUo^,
Last fall I was awarded my third year 
Insignia Key and ever since I have been 
suffering with terrific headaches. Upon 
the advice of my doctor, I made arrange­
ments to have a thorough examination 
of my eyes, which revealed my eyes to 
be in perfect condition. The only en- 
lightment given by the eye specialist was 
that I was probably spending too much 
of my time looking at almost invisible 
objects. Since I did not do work that re­
quired much eye-strain, I was still at a 
loss for the cause of my trouble. One 
evening while I was once more searching 
in vain for the ruby on my third insignia, 
the idea came to me that this w?ts where
I had been subjecting my eyes to un­
usual overwork. Now I always use a 
strong magnifying glass when looking for 
the ruby. My headache has disappeared 
and the ruby has appeared (faintly). I 
wish that everyone who was awarded a 
third-year insignia last fall (with a ruby) 
could read this and profit by my experi­
ence. The only catch is that no glass 
under four power will be of any aid.
Very Much Disappointed.
Drama Students To 
Present “Moor Born”
The next effort of the Day School 
drama students is scheduled for Satur­
day, February 6th through Saturday, Feb­
ruary 13th in the Fine Arts Theatre. The 
production “Moor Born” was written by 
Dan Totheroh and is directed by Robert 
Gill. Many favorable comments have 
been made on the work done by this de­
partment so far this season and we are 
sure this will be no exception. Tickets 
may be procured at the Registrar’s Of­
fice upon presentation of your registra­
tion card.¡
HOTEL WEBSTER 
HALL
Available For
PRIVATE PARTIES 
BANQUETS 
SWIMMING PARTIES
MAyflower 7700 
Fifth near Mellon Institute ;
A nice letter received from Fred Far- 
gotstein’s parents tells us of his safe ar­
rival in North Africa. Fred enlisted in 
the Engineers’ Corps last May and he re­
ports that his only injury to date is the 
loss of a pivot tooth. This injury was 
due to his tangling with a loaf of French 
bread. One or the other had to give and 
the French bread won . . . Last week 
we welcomed a newcomer to the Plaid 
staff, Edgar Hamilton—this week we bid 
him good bye. He leaves on Monday 
for Florida, having enlisted in the Army 
Air Force . . . Mysteries of the week:— 
Why has Kathleen Nefores changed her 
hangout from the grill to the beanery? 
. . . Why do Charles Linnert and A1 
De Paul dash madly into town after 
classes on Friday nights? If there are 
any amateur Sherlock Holmes’ among us, 
perhaps the answers may be interesting 
. . . What’s this we hear about George 
Bogovich? Seems he was stopped -by a 
cop driving through town without his 
lights on. A hangover from the last 
blackout, eh, George? . . . We are won­
dering if too much night life is the rea­
son for Jane Owings’ dropping out of 
school . . . We must be pretty good, 
here at Tech, ’cause the movies have 
copied our Crystal Ball. In “Casablanca” 
one of the scenes shows a crystal ball 
very much like ours. We knew it was 
clever, long before Hollywood found out.
The Carnegie Plaid
Page edited by Evening Scnool Students oí Carnegie Institute of Technology. All views or opinions expressed in editorial column are not necessarily endorsed by the Editorial Board of the Day School staff.
Editor Nancy E. Lewis News Editor 
Robert C. King 
Associate Editor of Engineering Joseph M. Rymar 
Associate Editor of Industries Mary Jo Weber 
Associate Editor of Fine Arts Marion Frost 
StaffAlbert Flanders S. W. MarcinizynMary Hensler D. Pettigrew, Jr.John Hundertmark Pearl PettolaEdward A. Macha Robert Poznanski
No one ever beat Carnegie to the punch 
—as yet! . . . Now that all hatchets have 
been buried for good, a certain young 
lady is soooo sorry she had the clever 
picture printed last week. You remem­
ber—the one of the fellow fishing—well, 
the fish was almost caught on the wrong 
hook, but now things are on the beam 
again . . . Private Phil Boyle, Camp 
Sibert, Alabama, has been on K. P. duty 
quite a bit lately. It seems he and the 
southern boys can’t agree on certain sub­
jects. And Phil used to “duck” dishes 
at home, too . . . Too bad, Bob Sobey, 
there wasn’t a dance on the 23rd. Cer­
tainly, you can schedule the party on 
February 6th for a wonderful time. Bring 
a glamour girl and come on, you’ll have 
a super-marvelous evening . . . Why did 
so many Carnegie girls have those “empty 
feelings” when they read of the engage­
ment of a Jimmy Flaherty? No, it wasn’t 
OUR Jimmy Flaherty; so keep at it girls, 
he is still a bachelor . . .Mary Joe Weber 
doesn’t have a date for the party next 
week—I know the boys are interested 
sooooo—First come, first served . . .
We are wondering where Mary Hensler 
galivants on Friday nights after class . . .
"FLOWERS AND A COCA-COLA 
... JUST LIKE HOME”
W, JÜ
“You always enjoy it when you connect 
with a Coke no matter where. There's 
something about it that’s special. All the 
difference between something really re­
freshing and just something to drink. Yes, 
indeed. The only thing like Coca-Cola is 
Coca-Cola, itself. Bet you’ve found that 
out already.”
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COIA COMPANY tY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, PITTSBURGH,PA.
