«^CARNEGIETARTAN
«^CARNER EAGIEISIR on IR«fAoFoNl
VOLUME 55 — NUMBER 27 WEDNESDAY, MAY 15, 1963
4Action’’ Sparks Peace Picnic 
.For Liberal Club on Campus
A group of students from universities in Pennsylvania, 
Ohio, and New York gathered in Pittsburgh on the weekend 
of May 3-5 for “Action ’63”, a seminar on peace and civil 
rights. Lectures and workship discussions, the main activities 
of the conference, were held on the following topics: Direct 
action for peace; Political action for peace and civil rights;
Direct action for civil rights; and 
Organization and education on 
campuses. Current development 
fin civil rights and the peace 
movement were evaluated and the 
role of the college student in di­
rect action was discussed. It was 
agreed that although it is neces­
sary to continue to work for racial 
equality and human betterment, 
our primary concern must be 
peace, because no other prob­
lems will be solved, nor will they 
matter, if we don’t survive.
The seminar culminated in a 
Silent demonstration in memory 
of William Moore, the integra- 
tionist leader who was shot in 
Alabama while on a lone walk to 
Jackson Mississippi to appeal to 
Governor Barnett to adopt a more 
reasonable racial policy. The stu­
dents stood in front of Soldiers 
and Sailors Memorial Hall in 
Oakland on Sunday morning for 
the two hour demonstration be­
fore concluding the weekend at a 
fjookout.
Inspired by “Action ’63,” the 
Tech representatives to the sem­
inar have decided to hold a Pic­
nic for Peace, in conjunction with 
the Liberal Club. The' future of all 
liberal activity at Tech will be 
planned, and anyone who is in­
terested in any aspect of liberal 
thought and action, including 
peace, should come.
The picnic will be held on Sun­
day, May 19, from 4:00 - 7:00 p.m. 
at the point of the “Point” of 
downtown Pittsburgh. Everyone 
is requested to brirtg his lunch 
and musical instruments for an 
afternoon of pre-exam relaxation, 
folk singing, and conviviality. 
Those interested in rides and 
more details may call Jean 
Renaud at 682-8894 or Joe Califf 
at 682-9735.
u) r. Honorary 
Initiates 30
Phi Tau Gamma, Junior Wom­
en’s Honorary, initiated thirty 
new members on May 6. They 
are: Nancy 'Adams, Marcia Av- 
ner, Barbara Bashein, Willa 
Bealke, Mary Bellay, Hedda 
^luestone, Joan Boschan, Alberta 
Carten, Carolyn Farb, Elizabeth 
Hall, Gwynedd Howells, Claire 
Johnson, Regina Kean, Susan 
Klein, Esther Lieber, Sandra Lip- 
sitz, Marjorie Mathie, Kathleen 
Morris, Judy Pogue, Nancy Ritz, 
Vija Rivers, Margaret Ross, Eileen 
Sharbaugh, Sharon Shuttleworth, 
Beverly Silverstein, Carole Smith, 
Nancy Tabashneck, Gail Thomas, 
Barbara Thorton, and Pamela 
^Tormington.
The main purpose of Phi Tau 
Gamma are to provide official 
recognition to junior women of 
Carnegie Tech whose scholastic 
achievement so merits such rec­
ognition and to provide the val­
uable service of tutoring fresh- 
men women where additional in­
struction is desirable.
Phi Tau Gamma members a;e 
required to have at least a 2.75 
Accumulative factor.
Shaheen Joins 
Exec. Council
Arlene Shaheen has been elect­
ed to Executive Council as the re­
presentative for the activities hon- 
oraries. Arlene, a junior technical 
writing major, is a member of 
Mortarboard, past president of 
Phi Tau Gamma, past vice-pres­
ident of Cwens, and is active in 
Chi Omega sorority and Student 
Congress. She was recently 
awarded the Women’s Dorm 
Council Scholarship for the 1963- 
64 school year.
All 1963-64 members of Sci­
mitars, Delta Skull, Omicron 
Delta Kappa, Cwens, Phi Tau 
Gamma, and Mortarboard were 
eligible to vote.
Pyke Wins Congress Election; 
First Ballot Decides Chairman
—Photo by Mike Allen
Tom Pyke smilingly accepts Chairmanship of SC.
Student Congress elections for 
chairman were held on Wednes­
day, May the 8th. Tom Pyke was 
elected after the first ballot, de­
feating his two opponents John 
Jackson and Jack Turk.
Tom Pyke, former Vice-presi­
dent of Student Congress, was as 
a freshman a member of Men’s 
Dorm Council, and active on the 
Union and Freshman Orientation 
committees as a representative to 
Student Congress. He was Chair­
man of the Union Committee as a 
sophomore and this year has 
served as Vice Chairman of Stu­
dent Congress and Chairman of 
the rules Committee.
His activities outside of Con­
gress have included Program Co- 
chairman of Freshman Camp, 
Chairman of the Campus Confer­
ence on Religion, Secretary and 
Vice-President of PiKA and Sec- 
retary-Treasurer of Delta Skull, 
the junior men’s honorary. He has 
just been elected Secretary of 
ODK, the senior men’s leadership 
honorary.
Social Fraternities Complete 
Chapter Officer Elections
All twelve fraternities have 
completed the election of officers 
for the 1963-64 year. The new 
officers are:
Alpha Tau Omega: Worthy
Master — Joe Hartman, Scribe — 
Ron Robinson; Keeper of Annals
— Joe Pagliaro; Keeper of Ex­
chequer — Bob Roberts; Rush 
Chairman — Charles Magistro.
Beta Theta Pi: President — Joe 
Thomas; Vice President — John 
Jackson; Corresponding Secretary
— John Jackson; Recording Sec­
retary — Steve Hartman; Trea­
surer — Ben Porter; Rush Chair­
man — Jack Hershey.
Beta Sigma Rho: President — 
Jack Turk; Vice President — 
Peter Herwitt; Secretary — Mur­
ray Eisenberg; Treasurer — Barry 
Friedfeld, Robert Balsar.
Delta U p s i 1 o n: President — 
Dave Williams; Vice President — 
Art Fox; Secretary — Dick Merill; 
Treasurer — Bob Beggart; Rush 
Chairman — John Greenhalgh.
Delta Tau Delta: President — 
Leonard Marino; Vice President
— Sam Dechter; Secretary — 
Dennis Denlinger; Treasurer — 
John Breckenridge; Rush Chair­
man — Harry Weissenstein.
Kappa Sigma: President —
James Shepherd; Vice President
— Richard Shoup; Secretary — 
Brian Horn; Rush Chairman — 
Willard Crout.
Pi Kappa Alpha: President — 
Douglas Saunders; Vice President
— Walter Kirchofer; Secretary —
Parking
The Pittsburgh police have re­
cently begun to strictly enforce 
parking- regulations near the 
men’s dorms and the gym. Out- 
of-state licensed cars have been 
towed away within the past week. 
Students are reminded that it is 
illegal to park in yellow zones, 
and car owners are liable for this 
action.
Robert Peterson; Treasurer —• 
Andrew Langlois; Rush Chairman
— Joseph Sandulli.
Phi Kappa Theta: President
— Lawrence Lang; Vice President
— Gary Lindstrom; Secretary — 
John Yavorsky; Treasurer — 
James Bryant.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon: President
— Richard Stamile; Vice Presi­
dent — Edward Bauer; Secretary
— William Katzenmeyer; Trea­
surer — Thomas O’Connell; Rush 
Chairman — John Tiberi.
Sigma Nu: Commander — 
Richard Ferguson; Lt. Comman­
der — John Campbell; Recorder
— Tom Glassberg; Treasurer — 
Charles Anderson; Rush Chair­
man — David Easley.
Tau Delta Phi: Consul — Mar­
tin Skowran; Vice Consul — 
David Miller; Scribe — Tod 
Johnson; Rush Chairman — 
Richard Elkman.
Theta Xi: President — Max 
Clark; Vice President — Richard 
Blacker; Secretary — Richard 
Osman; Treasurer — Michael 
Bender; Rush Chairman — Robert 
Griscom.
Nygren Heads 
E.E. Honorary
Eta Kappa Nu, Electrical En­
gineering scholastic honorary, has 
elected its officers for the 1963-64 
school year. The new president, 
Stephen Nygren, is also vice- 
president of Tau Beta Pi, vice- 
president, of Cameron Choir, and 
a member of Phi Kappa Phi. Vice- 
president, David VandeLinde is a 
member of Sigma Nu Fraternity, 
PiDE; and President of CFP.
Other offcers are Roy Wester- 
berg, Recording and Correspond­
ing secretary; John Darringer, 
treasurer; Robert Godt; Bridge 
Correspondent; and Roger Patter­
son, Pledge master.
Three Tech Students Receive 
Graphic Arts Design Awards
The department of graphic arts at Carnegie Tech has 
awarded three students The Composing Room Awards and 
the Pittsburgh Advertising Club Award.
Katherine E. Ross, a senior in printing, design and sculp­
ture, received The Composing Room Award for excellence 
in typographic design. She will have her work exhibited in
Gallery 303 in New York City^------------------------------------------------—“
and will receive $100. I rri t /• /•
Clinton G. Anglin, a printing u GClI (JlTGVS 
management senior, was awarded 
an honorable mention in the 
Composing Room Award for ex-! 
cellence in typographic design.
His work will also be exhibited 
in Gallery 303, New York City, 
and he will receive $50.
Terry S. Heckler received the 
Pittsburgh Advertising Club 
Award for excellence in adver­
tising design, which carries a 
prize of $100. Mr. Heckler is a 
junior in the graphic arts depart­
ment.
The awards were presented to 
the students at the- Printing Man­
agement Seminar Banquet on Fri­
day, April 26, at the Park Schen- 
ley Restaurant .
Tech Offers 
Conference
High school students from the 
Allegheny County area can ob­
tain an introduction to modern 
electrical engineering or physics 
at Carnegie Institute of Techno­
logy starting this fall.
The students will be on the Car­
negie Tech campus from 8:30 a.m. 
to 4:20 p.m. each Saturday during 
the academic year and will de­
vote almost two hours of that time 
to study in Carnegie Tech’s famed 
digital computer center. The re­
mainder of the program includes 
lectures, discussions, classroom 
work, and research. Senior staff 
members will be assigned to in­
struction and guidance in both the 
engineering and science programs,
N ew F ello wshi p
The most comprehensive move 
ever made to encourage the art 
of creative writing for the per­
forming arts has been announced 
by Mr. Jules C. Stein, chairman 
of the board of MCA Inc., parent 
company of Universal Pictures, 
Revue TV Productions and Decca 
Records.
Mr. Stein revealed the comple­
tion of negotioations establishing 
MCA fellowships in creative 
writing in 15 of the Nation’s lead­
ing universities. The fellowships 
will cover both tuition and living 
expenses for the full academic 
year.
Arrangements to award the fel­
lowships have already been con­
cluded with Carnegie Tech. as 
well as with Stanford University, 
Brandeis University, University of 
Michigan, New York University, 
Catholic University of America^ 
University of Iowa, Northwestern 
University, University of Texas, 
University of Wisconsin, Cocneli 
University, and Sarah Lawrence 
College.
The MCA scholarship or grad­
uate fellowship is creative writing 
will be awarded to a student, 
male or female, in each university 
who shows exceptional promise in 
the field of creative writing for 
the performing arts, i.e., the legi­
timate theatre, motion pictures or 
television. The selection of the 
students to receive the grants 
will be the discretion of the re­
spective universities. The MCA 
fellowships will commence ia 
September 1963,

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, May 15, 1963
Tech Honors Allan Kullen 
With Jeweled Activity Key
The recipient of the special 
jeweled activities key for the aca­
demic year 1962-63 is Allan Kul­
len, a printing management ma­
jor. His activities have included 
Delta Skull, Omicron Delta Kap­
pa, vice president Tau Delta Phi, 
president of Pi Delta Epsilon, 
president of IM Board, president 
of Welsh Hall, member of execu­
tive council and publicity chair­
man for Student Congress. A1 
feels that participation in these 
activities has given him greater 
maturity and one of his future 
hopes for Carnegie is a greater ' 
student and administrative inter­
est in campus activities. He is 
especially interested in the future 
of Student Congress. In time, he 
hopes the Congress will represent 
a larger portion of the campus 
and student ideas. With increased 
student interest, the administra­
tion should be more willing to 
support Student Congress. This 
would make it a more effective 
and influential organization.
Al’s printing management pro­
gram has allowed him choice of a 
wide variety of courses and time 
for a corresponding variety of ac-
Allan Kullen
tivities. He has also been pleased 
by the wide diversity of our cam­
pus and hopes there will be even 
greater inter-departmental inter­
est in the future. After he leaves 
Carnegie, A1 plans to complete his 
scholastic work in Graduate 
School at the University of Cali­
fornia, at Berekley.
This Week In Pittsburgh
WEDNESDAY, MAY 15
Fine Arts Theatre — Two one-act plays and an opera 
Glimpse of Reality by George Bernard Shaw 
Red Peppers by Noel Coward (a musical)
Amelia Goes to the Ball (presented by the 
Music Department)
THURSDAY, MAY 16
Film Arts — “Oscar Wilde” England 1953 
Brass Choir Concert — Exhibition Hall 8 p.m.
CONTINUING EVENTS
Playhouse — “Come Blow Your Horn” Hamlet St.
Theatre, “The Caretaker” Theater Upstairs. 
HEWLETT Gallery — Exhibition of Printings by candi­
dates for the Master of Fine Arts degree.
Pershing Rifles 
Elects Blue 
Head Officer
Pershing Rifles recently elected 
officers for the 1963-64 school 
year. The graduating Captain, 
Victor E. Dobras, presided over 
the meeting at which Stephen 
Blue was elected the new Com­
manding Officer. Other officers 
elected were Executive Officer, 
Michael Ingram; Administration 
Officer, Richard H. Davis; and 
Public Information Officer, C. 
William Reeder.
Likewise, Scabbard and Blade, 
the ROTC honorary, chose «heir 
officers. They are Captain, Mich­
ael Ingram, First Lieutenant, 
Stephen Blue, Second Lieutenant, 
Richard Bobick, and Frst Ser­
geant, William Seffey.
WRCT Provide 
Sound System
WRCT, Carnegie Tech campus 
radio station, provided the sound 
systems for the major events of 
the 1963 Spring Carnival. The 
staff set up sound systems in the 
; gym and Skibo for Scotch ’n Soda,
; the Hi-Lo concert, and the dance, 
i The WRCT sound truck was 
! present at sorority relays, plank 
jousting, and the faculty egg 
throw to give the audience an 
immediate report on the scores 
, of each contestant. The buggy 
races were covered by short-wave 
broadcasts and a public address 
system.
OAKLAND
NOW SHOWING
Thors. Fri. Sat. Sun. Sc Mon. 
Fred MacMnrry - Nancy Olsen 
in Walt Disney’sSon of Flubber
> Glen Ford - Hope LLove is a Bell
— coming —
"A Child Is Waiting”
and
“Five Miles To Midnight" ------------
BULLETIN
BOARD
Executive Council
Executive Council of Student 
Government is now accepting ap­
plications for the following posi­
tions: Chairman of Fall Festival 
— please apply by 4:30, Thursday, 
May 16. Chairman of the Union 
Committee—apply by 4:30, Thurs­
day, May 23. Chairman of the 
Leadership Committee — apply 
by 4:30, Thursday, May 23. Treas­
urer of Student Government — 
apply by 4:30 Thursday, May 23. 
Justice on the Student Court (4 
positions open) — applicants must 
have completed at least three full 
semesters at Tech, and not be a 
member of either Student Con­
gress or Executive Council — 
apply by 4:30, Thursday, May 23.
All applications for these posi­
tions must be submitted to the 
Executive Council, in care of Dr. 
Strick’s office, room 103, Skibo by 
the above times. Applications will 
be accepted from any members of 
the student body. Membership in 
Student Congress is not necessary.
Graduation Kits
Graduation kits containing im­
portant information about gradu­
ation, tickets (in case of rain), 
and calendars of events must be 
picked up by candidates from the 
registrar’s office (Administration 
Hall) during the following hours: 
Monday, May 13; Tuesday, May 
14, Wednesday, May 15; Thurs­
day, May 16, Friday, May 17, 
from 9 a.m. to noon and from 1 
p.m. to 4 p.m.
Evening students contact Mr. 
McKelway after May 13. Com­
mencement announcements and 
invitations can be purchased at 
the bookstore.
Commencement
Faculty and staff who will at­
tend Commencement, June 10, 
have been requested to park in 
their regularly designated areas, 
except in the case of the Skibo 
reserved lot. That lot will be re­
served for candidates and guests. 
Those who regularly park there 
have been urged to use the lot ad­
joining the Edward’s property.
CIT European Flight
All arrangements have been 
completed for the CIT European 
flight leaving Philadelphia on 
June 13, 1963. For all those flight 
members who have not picked up 
their complimentary travel bags 
at Mudge Hall last Monday, a 
travel bag can be obtained by 
contacting one of the organizers. 
Harry Norris (682-8492) Richard 
Niehaus (682-8548), Tom Steffen
TONY'S BARBER SHOP
SPECIALIZING IN ALL KINDS OF HAIRCUTS
NO —comoin gadgBm UcBUgBL
125 Bouquet St. <Near Corner Forbes and Booqnet)
New Honrs: 8 A.M. to 8 P.M. Daily MU. 2-9969
RENT NEW CARS... AND SAVE UP TO
m 24 Ec re*'Hout DAYMill
HUTS SHINY, HEW AUTOMOBILES ÎHK0UGH THl
BUDGET
RENT-A-CAR 
SYSTEM
SHARE TRANSPORTATION COSTS ON YOUR NEXT 
DATE! IT'S CHEAPER THAN USING TAXI-CABS!
No rentals under age 21. For ages 21 to 25 there is a 20% additional charge and a cash deposit is required. Please note: oberL viL Lrsbia vBTWis.rD VB sBb rent to drivers under 25.
BUDGET RENT-A-CAR of VOLLUME5—NB inc.
609 Bigelow Blvd. (Across from the Carlton House) Pittsburgh 19, Pa.
dETINO 261-3320
(682-3621), or 
(MA 1-0533).
William Russell
Pi Delta Epsilon
Pi Delta Epsilon, the national 
journalistic honorary, has called 
the following Tech students to 
membership: Marcia Avner, Fred 
Baer, John Blue, Frank Brady,
Nancy Cameron, Tom Grim, Judy 
Mason, Mike McCoy, Robert
Pierce, Allan Pollock, Barry 
Shane, Bill Small, Art Tarr, and 
David VandeLinde.
mEARDCN Positions
Applications for positions on 
the 1964 Thistle are being accept, 
ed. Positions include: Editor-in- 
Chief, Associate Editor, Business 
Manager, Photography Edito^ 
Layout Editor, Art Editor, Comp, 
troller, Advertising Manager, and 
Sales Manager. Please state your 
qualifications and positions de­
sired in a letter addressed to Edi­
tor, 1963 Thistle. Applications are 
due by May 20.
QnCäroposwithMaxShulman
(Author of “/ Was a Teen-age Dwarf', “The Many 
Loves of Dobie Gillis”, etc.)
TILL WE MEET AGAIN
With today’s installment I complete my ninth year of writing 
columns in your college newspaper for the makers of Marlboro 
Cigarettes. In view of the occasion, I hope I may be forgiven 
if I get a little misty.
These nine years have passed like nine minutes. In fact, 
I would not believe that so much time has gone by except that 
I have my wife nearby as a handy reference. When I started 
columning for Marlboros, she was a slip of a girl—supple as a 
reed and fair as the sunrise. Today she is gnarled, lumpy, and 
given to biting the postman. Still, I count myself lucky. Most 
of my friends who were married at the same time have wives 
who chase cars all day. I myself have never had this trouble 
and I attribute my good fortune to the fact that I have never 
struck my wife with my hand. I have always used a folded
iré âW Me! kW Côlumiiï
newspaper—even throughout the prolonged newspaper strike 
in New York. During this period I had the airmail edition of 
the Manchester Guardian flown in daily from England. I must 
confess, however, that it was not entirely satisfactory. The air­
mail edition of the Guardian is printed on paper so light and 
flimsy that it makes little or no impression when one slaps one’s 
wife. Mine, in fact, thought it was some kind of game, and tore 
several pairs of my trousers.
But I digress. I was saying what a pleasure it has been to 
write this column for the last nine years for the makers of 
Marlboro Cigarettes—a fine group of men, as anyone who has 
sampled their wares would suspect. They are as mellow as the 
aged tobaccos they blend. They are as pure as the white cellulose 
filter they have devised. They are loyal, true, companionable, 
and constant, and I have never for an instant wavered in my 
belief that some day they will pay me for these last nine years.
But working for the makers of Marlboro has not been the 
greatest of my pleasures over the last nine years. The chief 
satisfaction has been writing for you—the college population 
of America. It is a rare and lucky columnist who can find an 
audience so full of intelligence and verve. I would like very 
much to show my appreciation by asking you all over to my 
house for tea and oatmeal cookies, but there is no telling how 
many of you my wife would bite.
For many of you this is the last year of college. This is espe­
cially true for seniors. To those I extend my heartfelt wishes 
that you will find the world outside a happy valley. To juniors 
I extend my heartfelt wishes that you will become seniors. To 
sophomores I extend my heartfelt wishes that you will become 
juniors. To freshmen I extend my heartfelt wishes that you will 
become sophomores. To those of you going on into graduate 
school I extend my heartfelt wishes that you will marry money.
To all of you let me say one thing: during the'year I have 
been frivolous and funny during the past year—possibly less 
often than I have imagined—but the time has now come for 
some serious talk. Whatever your status, whatever your plans, 
I hope that success will attend your ventures.
Stay happy. Stay loose. eiaaa Max shuimaa
We, the makers of Marlboro Cigarettes, confess to more than 
a few nervous moments during the nine years we have spon­
sored this uninhibited and uncensored column. But in the 
main, we have had fun and so, we hope, have you. Let us 
add our good wishes to Old Max’s: stay happy; stay loose.
«Ì
Ol

---------------------------------------------------

SAVINGS EARN 
LIBERAL Æm 
dividends jarm0F*W
-J—1 1 1 t open every Tuetdoy eveningFranklinFEDERAL
SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATION
5816 FORBES AVE.. SQUIRREL HILL
Over 35 Yeart of Service to the Pittsburgh Community
• Save by mail. We pay postage and provide free envelopes, too.
• Save by the 10th -— earn from the first.
• All savings insured up to $10,000.
DuPont Representative Larry Lang Surveys
Collegiate Preference, Budget For Gothes
Wednesday, May 15, 1963 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Pa» t
(tad* Houfi?
Traditional Apparel for Men 
5823 Forbes Ave. Squirrel Hill
Phone 521-7600
Open Tuesday and Thursday evenings until 9:00
RAMBLER 6»V8Winner of Motor Trend Magazine Award:
"CAR OF THE YEAR"
Can't swing a new car? See our fine Se&xt Used Cars
Tech men: Did you spend
$321.50 for new clothes last year? 
^ That’s the average figure ar­
rived at in questioning 220 col­
lege men from 26 U. S. campuses 
at Du Pont’s recent second an­
nual College Conference in Mont 
Tremblant, Quebec.
As a result of his attendance at 
the meeting, Larry Lang, a junior 
at Tech in the civil engineering 
department, has t>een appointed 
by Du Pont as a sweater fashion 
representative for the Pittsburgh 
i^area. Armed with statistics such 
as the one above, he’s been busy 
with interviews and TV appear­
ances, spreading the fashion gos­
pel, as well as handling his other 
chores, including the presidency 
of Phi Kappa Theta, memberships 
on Student Congress and Scab­
bard and Blade, ROTC honorary, 
and work for the Admissions 
Office.
What do college men buy with 
%the $321.50 they reported spend­
ing for wardrobe additions last 
year? Here are some of the bigger 
items, their average cost, and the 
total of the garment in the aver­
age wardrobe; Suits, $58, 3.2;
dress slacks, two pairs, $27; cas­
ual slacks, 2.3 pairs, $14; sport 
coats, one $36; sweaters, two, $33; 
and top coats, .5, $24.
“Notice the importance of 
sweaters in the average ward- 
#rfobe,” Larry said. “Except for 
shirts, socks and ties, sweaters are 
the biggest item, numerically, in 
collegiate clothes closets. They’re 
one of those items you can never 
have enough of.”
“Du Pont was very interested 
at the conference in showing us 
sweaters made from Orion, the
acrylic fiber they produce that a 
lot of different sweater manufac­
turers use,” he said. “The sweat­
ers were washable — handy for 
college men — and come in a 
wide Variety of styles, textures 
and prices.” Larry, patently deny­
ing spending $321 for clothes last 
year, was particularly impressed 
by the price range. “Some of 
those fellows spent an awful lot 
of money on clothes, and that 
helped to boost the average. I 
bought a couple of sweaters but 
they didn’t cost anywhere near 
$33.” He smiled, “Made from 
Orion, of course.”
If students are spending a lot 
on clothes, they’re also interested 
in taking care of them — per­
sonally. By far the greater per­
centage of the conference atten­
dees reported doing their own 
laundry, either in dormitory facil­
ities or at commercial do-it-your­
self laundries. The new do-it- 
yourself dry cleaning machines 
are beginning to be popular too, 
with some of the boys reporting 
dry cleaning their own jackets 
and slacks.
And, interestingly, do-it-your­
self washing convinced quite a 
few that wash-and-wear slacks 
were not the answer to a stu­
dent’s prayer. Only 33 per cent 
said they were well satisfied. The 
economy interested some; others 
said they were nice to have for 
emergencies, but most felt they 
weren’t worth the trouble.
Style is the important factor in 
a student’s wordrobe selection — 
93 per cent of the men said they 
looked for styling first. Other fea­
tures scored: price, 80 per cent; 
comfort, 75 per cent; and durabil­
ity 69 per cent.
for the YOUNG MANwho has 
succeeded:
• film arts • next year • 
 “ONE OF THE 3 GREATEST FRENCH FILMS”«
UBECKLEY, Herald TribunP
"A memorable experience'*
O^C«fR-J AyLy Timet
•'Highly recommended, rank* 
with Renoir's best” -Po«#Rules of the Game
'"'"yjmnjlfyiohs
original complete version.. .never before shown
Most preferred only slightly 
different styles — 45 per cent — 
while only 4 per cent went for 
distinctively different styles. Uni­
form and moderately different 
styling was the goal of 25 per 
cent each.
Students get their style infor­
mation mainly from personal ob­
servations on campus, and are in­
fluenced primarily by well dress­
ed students, advertising, and 
stores specializing in young men’s 
clothing. (Coeds ranked near the 
bottom as an influence on campus 
attire — it’s still a man’s world).
Classified Ads
PROFESSIONAL TYPING — HA. 1-1456. 
On electric typewriters, reasonable 
rates. Themes, Theses, Manuscripts, 
Term Papers, Applications, etc. Spel­
ling errors corrected.
DANCE MUSIC — The Leo Alman 
Combo. HAzel 1-2083. Evenings.
Nice 4-room bath furnished apt. for rent 
for summer up to 4 male students. Nice 
neighborhood, plenty parking. Light and 
airy trunk room. Call after 2:00 JA. 1- 
2497.
MG. TD Black Beauty, Excellent condi­
tion, low mileage. See this one before 
you buy any. LO. 1-3073.
Stanton Heights Duplex, 1st floor 2 bed­
room apartment, range, refrigerator, 
whirlpool washer, carpeting, drapes, 
wrought iron tables, chairs, patio furni­
ture and garage. Prefer married couple 
or with children. Newly decorated. Mr. 
J. J. Goldstein — 604 Chislett St.
Everything Is V-8
(except the price)
Rambler’s new Classic V-8 lets you 
go in style and save like sixty. Under 
the hood, the added zest of 198 
horses—smooth and responsive. And 
the cost? From $76 to $195* less 
than the Sixes offered by the other 
two best-selling low-priced cars.
Add the low-cost Twin-Stick Floor 
Shift to this V-8 and driving fun really
begins. Stick-shift command per­
formance and lightning fast kickdown 
from overdrive to passing gears.
Check out the sleek lines, rich inte­
riors, and ample room for six 6-foot­
ers. Get the scoop on how Rambler 
will cost you less to own and run. At 
your Rambler dealer.
?Based on manufacturers’ suggested retail price«.
“Looking well” on campus was 
important to 87 per cent of the 
men, not important to 13 per cent.
The 87 per cent, then, armed 
with $321.50 apiece and a desire 
to buy .9 suits, 3.2 pairs of dress 
slacks, etc., of slightly different 
styling as influenced by well 
dressed students, reported doing 
30 per cent of their shopping in 
campus area stores, 20 per cent in 
university shops of department 
stores, and 50 per cent in other 
stores.
Larry Lang, a junior in civil engineering, and Paula 
Samuelson a freshman in psychology, compare notes while 
trying out a coming sweater fad — his and hers, in a Nor­
wegian ski pattern. Larry has been chosen by DuPont at l 
sweater fashion representative in the Pittsburgh area.
On graduation day, 
the young man who has 
earned his degree or 
diploma will apprepiate 
one of our Summer 
sportcoats by 
Cricketeer,tailors to 
young men on the way 
up. Bold, impressive, 
yet in classic 
traditional good taste 
...an expression of his 
achievement.
From $25.00 
to $39.95
CRICKETEER®

---------------------------------------------------

Pace 4 — CARNEGIE TARTAN - Wednesday, May 15, littS
Editorial
Looking Forward
One result of the recent Student Congress 
elections will be a formal attempt to pro­
vide improved communications between the 
administration and the student organizations 
on our campus.
Student distrust and aversion for our 
traditional ogre, the college administration, 
has increased with the imposition of new 
rules on fraternities, the installation of park­
ing meters, and the impounding of cars be­
longing to underclassmen. A knowledge of 
the functions of our administrative deans 
would do much to appease this growing hat­
red.
True, some members of the faculty have 
done much to acquaint students with the 
decisions and proceedings of the school. But 
much is still left to be done.
The administration considers many deci­
sions about which the students know little. 
In the future the administration should con­
sult student opinion in many matters, al­
though in some instances it clearly would 
need to do so only to flatter student interest 
in policy-making.
There are a few students who have the 
opportunity to express opinion to our ad­
ministration and who are informed of actions
and ideas considered by the school. Tom 
Pyke, our new Student Congress chairman 
is one such person. When he presents his 
ideas to the administration, he should reflect 
student opinion collected not only from the 
members of Congress but also from the stu­
dent body, through such devices as question­
naires. He will thus make the administration 
more “campus-conscious.”
Students cannot be expected to support 
anything about which they are uninformed 
or in which they have not played even a 
small part. In his platform, Tom Pyke em­
phasized the need to keep Congress posted 
on administrative activity. An informed 
Congress will gain the support of its constitu­
ents, especially those whose interests it will 
primarily serve — the fraternity members 
and dormitory residents. By backing our 
new chairman, we can assure that he will 
correctly express our opinions to the ad­
ministration, that he will effectively advo­
cate any changes and measures we want en­
acted, and that he will promptly inform us 
of the opinions and actions of our administra­
tion.
Congratulations to Tom Pyke upon attain­
ing the office of Student Congress chairman. 
We look forward, as he does, to a stronger 
student government.
M. L. S.
Readers Write
Students Make Criticisms
Music Dept. Laxity 
Stifles Potential
Editor, The Tartan:
There has been considerable 
criticism waged, not only re­
cently, at the comparative laxity 
of students in the department of 
music in preparing and execut­
ing performances sponsored by, 
or otherwise associated with, 
Carnegie Tech. That this laxity 
exists among the musical trades­
men of the department, students, 
and some of the faculty alike, is 
practically irrefutable — its ex­
istence can be attested by any 
serious student or faculty mem­
ber who is involved in the pub­
lic performance of non-solo 
works. And with the recent on­
slaught of spring fever, the ef­
fects of this laxity soon may not 
only be felt by those unfortunate 
enough to be unable to avoid its 
present proximity, but by the 
concert-going public who, col­
lectively imperceptive as they 
might be, are still able to tell the 
difference between satisfactory 
and mediocre performances.
A recent and all-too-illustra- 
tive example of the generality of 
this attitude occurred when 
enough members of the Carnegie 
Tech chorus, composed almost 
entirely of music majors, did not 
return to an important rehearsal 
after the customary ten minute 
intermission that the rehearsal 
had to be terminated. The work 
was to be performed in less than 
a week and this occurrence is 
far from an isolated instance. 
Such unwillingness to cooperate 
even in the preparation of a 
major work robs both aural 
spectator and audible performer 
of everything except the op­
portunity for an evening of com­
plete mediocrity which could 
have been better utilized in bed.
Music is a gregarious art. It 
requires an extent of coopera­
tion known only to those who 
have experienced ensemble 
playing or singing. Enough tal­
ent-material exists in our music 
department to make it unfair to 
every student, faculty member, 
and patron of the department to
allow the continuance of this un­
professional laxity. If every stu­
dent will actively oppose him­
self to this departmental foible, 
then perhaps some of the as yet 
esoteric potential of the depart­
ment will be brought to the at­
tention of more than a few.
F. RICHARD MOORE 
Department of Music
Bertucci Notes 
Netvs Coverage
Editor, The Tartan:
While not wishing to minimize 
the light atmosphere which cus­
tomarily surrounds anything 
connected with Spring Carnival, 
I would like to point out what 
I consider to be a serious over­
sight in the Tartan’s coverage of 
Carnival events. During Call 
Day proceedings, many members 
of the Tech student body were 
honored either by calls to hon­
orary organizations or presen­
tation of individual awards. The 
Tartan made absolutely no men­
tion of these people.
The students -who received 
awards on Call Day are some of 
the most outstanding members 
of the Tech student body, both 
in academic and extra-curricu­
lar activities. They have worked 
hard during their school years 
and have well earned the rec­
ognition they receive on Call 
Day. We, who are members oi 
this same student body, should 
be both proud of and interested 
in their achievements.
I realize that Call Day presen­
tations may not have provided 
half so entertaining a spectacle 
as the sight of a mud-soaked 
plank-jouster. However, I do 
feel that an article announcing 
the names of those honored at 
Call Day is just as important as 
an article announcing the win­
ner of the Ugly Mug, and equally 
newsworthy. We cannot expect 
to achieve motivation for high 
goals among our students if 
those who achieve these goals 
receive less recognition than the 
winners of a relay race.
John Bertucci.
le thArCNksUGkD
Spring sports continue to dominate the picture as the 
first track meet of the season was announced against Alle­
gheny on Saturday. Grove City beat us at tennis but as if 
to prove that they were not as invincible then as now, Tech 
beat them at baseball 12 to 8. The Tech nine continued to roll 
as they beat Mount Union 8 to 2. If we feel sorry for ourselves 
now that we have another week or so of these fine summer- 
like days to spend in class, feel sorry for the people then; 
they had to go until the second week of June. Commence­
ment was not held until the 17th. The first conference of 
editors of student newspapers was held at Pitt during the 
week. Dr. Talcott Williams of the Pulitzer School of Journal­
ism and Dan C. Seitz, general manager of the New York 
“World” were among some of the speakers. The Glee Club 
had a concert and there apparently was hardly a dry eye 
in the house as Miss Williams sang the solo, “O Dry Those 
Tears.” People were also apparently more open, for the Hotel 
Schenley advertised in the Tartan rooms for $2.00 and up­
wards. Also advertised was the Haller Bakery at 3618 Forbes 
which sold ice creams and cakes. They started that for Tech 
people they had, “all the eatin’s for your doin’s.”
A Candle in the Darkness
By Jeffrey Axelrad
Brave New World
When Dr. Warner announced his retirement, he said 
among other things that the future would see Tech with a 
student body of 3500 — “3300 living on campus!” This 
sounds nice, and does not alarm the reader; but it signals 
a change in the existing arrangements here. Now male stu­
dents are allowed to live in apartments. If 3300 out of 3500 
students are to live on campus, it seems as if they are going 
to have to be forced to do so — many persons find the 
freedom, cooking facilities, added room, and other advant-'’ 
ages of apartments sufficient reason to move from the dorms.
This order (live on campus) will—if it comes—cer­
tainly be a symbol of a changed attitude on the part of the 
administration. No longer will a student be allowed to de­
cide for himself whether he wishes to “enjoy” dormitory 
living. An entering individual will be molded into a well- 
rounded Tech student instead of only being expected to 
become competent in his studies.
In this writer’s opinion one of the advantages of going . 
here is the opportunity to meet individuals who live in 
different ways, enjoy different things, and “hold radically 
differing views. The present system where students may 
disperse throughout Oakland and Squirrel Hill is certainly 
an important component of the present atmosphere. Even if 
this were not true, the attitude of the administration will 
certainly, in the long run, determine the attitude of the stu­
dent body. It is suggested that the policies of the “better’* 
schools be compared with those of other (in the viewer’s 
eyes) less highly rated universities. Which are more permis­
sive? ^
Some students may hope that the above example is 
just an isolated case (and it has not been officially stated 
to be school policy yet.) This writer hopes so, but another 
disturbing policy has been published within the last few 
weeks—notices have gone up informing Freshmen and 
Sophomores that they will be disciplined if they keep their 
cars on campus. This has been the law before—but it has 
never been enforced. Why the change? To bind students 
closer to their Alma Mater? Certainly if a person has a car 
Dn campus his parents know about it. If a car keeps a stu­
dent from studying, is this the school’s worry, or should it 
be left to the individual concerned? The answer to this 
question and other similar ones may reflect the official 
“values” of Carnegie Tech.
Each instance above may not seem too important, but 
each one affects the lives of many students. In the future 
lucky students may not have to decide what to wear — the 
school will issue uniforms. After all, everyone knows all per­
sons like the same clothes; and even if they don’t they 
should be forced to.
«‘‘CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Offices: Skibo, Room 50, Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Office phone, MU. 2-4557; Editor-in-Chief, MU. 2-9580 
Business Manager, MU. 2-8898; Advertising Manager, MU. Vj 
29753; Managing Editor, MU. 2-8959. Published weekly 
during the school year except holidays and examination 
periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Annual Subscription Rate $2.50 
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Represented for national advertising by Nafional Advertising, Inc.
Editor-in-Chief .............................................Miron Straf
Executive Editor .................................B. J. Zimnewicz
Managing Editor .............................................A1 Pollock
Business Manager ..................................Michael McCoy
News Editor .................................................Frank Brady
Assistant News Editor.................................Alma Rock ,
Features Editor ......................................Martha Siegel
Copy Editor .............................................Clarita Dzatko
Advertising Manager ..................................John Norris
Sports Editor ....................................................John Blue
Layout Editor ......................................Nancy Cameron
Secretarial Editor .........................................Kathy Vogel
Circulation Editor ...................................Tom Johnson
Editorial Board: Peggy Riva, Margie Paik, Annie Moser, Charles Hofook, Martin
Ackerman. Elaine Grumer, Fritz Klinke. <¦ >
V'tws Staff: Margie Park, Bob Wohlford, Justin Polulack, Colin Jones, Marty 
Moore, Fay Landau, Gladys Stalinsky, Jay Lapidus, Elie Denberg, Miriam 
Gilespie, Marion Mulligan, Lois Riva, Sandy Lancaster, Ellen Hamill, Nancy 
Adams, Sandy Byrr.e. 
eature Staff: Marion Mulligan, Jennifer Low, Marty Sauer, Martha Hodgson, 
Irene Grandberg, Aril Soule, Jeffrey Axelrad, Jane Keeler, Sut Crytzer,
Bob Godt.
Sports .Staff: Scott McCormick. Tom Terpack, Dick Elder, Ted Engelmann.
Layout Staff: Drew Lippay, Dick Elder, Tom Glassberg, Marion Mulligan, Su* 
Stitt, A1 Pollock, Fritz Klinke, Holy Lawrance.
Copy Staff: Barbara Biown, Nancy Green, Jane Keeler, Mary Muier, Jane Sam­
uels, Ginny Uliss, Verna Ream, Helen Beatty.
Photo: Aron Colling, Bill Jackson, Russ Stinebaugh.
Secretarial Str.ff: Carole Breuer, Ann Carten, Nancy Beth Jacobs, Leslie McKinley,
Sue Sterhardt, Lorraine Vinograd, Mary Muir, Jenny Low, Carol Young, 
Jane Samuels.
Circulation Staff — George Kail, Tom Glassberg, Tom Chamberlin, J. E. Miller, , y_ t

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, M»y 15, 1962 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — F«e S
#Campus Leader Expresses Concern 
For Future of Student Activities
During the past year, Allan Kullen has 
been President of both the Intramural Board 
and Pi Delta Epsilon, and has served on Stu­
dent Government’s Executive Council He 
‘0ias been very active in campus life, and was 
' this year’s recipient of the Special Jeweled 
Activities Key awarded by Student Congress.
For the past four years, while pursuing 
the Carnegie Plan, I have majored in Campus 
Activities, bringing me into close contact 
with many aspects of this campus. With 
graduation only a month away, I would 
like to use this article as a “thank you” to 
these activities for their invaluable exper­
ience as well as to leave Student Govern­
ment the following proposals for its con­
sideration.
The first proposal is for an All-Campus 
election of the Chairman of Student Con­
gress. In the past, the emphasis seems to 
have been placed on “building up the spirit 
of Congress” because it represents the views 
of the campus. Why not build up the spirit 
of the actual campus, and not worry about 
its representatives — since if the campus be­
comes enthusiastic, so will its representa­
tives. I would like to see the chairman elect­
ed by the campus, not by a group of “un­
representative” representatives.
I call them unrepresentative for two rea­
sons. First, when the vote for a representa­
tive in a sixty man department is 6-5, I can­
not see how anyone can say that the elected 
man is truly representative of the wishes of 
, that department. I would suggest that unless 
^fty per cent of each department turns out 
to vote in its election, the election should be 
voided and that seat in Congress be left va­
cant. Otherwise people will be holding seats 
not representing anyone but their close 
friends.
My second reason for challenging the 
"representativity” of the people electing the 
Chairman of Student Congress, is that, ex­
cept in a few rare cases, no representative 
polled his department to find out who they 
granted him to vote for. The result is that 
xhe Chairman is elected by a small power 
bloc—a power bloc of about 50 men.
This brings up an interesting point. To 
begin with, I am not against politics. Politics 
is the key to democratic elections, and clean, 
legitimate, above-board politics has proven 
itself against all challengers. There is nothing 
legally wrong with exchanging support
along the lines of “you vote for my issue (or 
man) now and I will support yours later,” 
as long as everyone understands the issues 
and this is kept in its proper perspective.
When an election meeting of Congress 
is convened with 98 voting members, and 
90% of them have made up their minds be­
fore the election, there is no real need for 
campaign talks or questions to the candidates 
— because they fall on deaf ears. All I am 
saying is that there is nothing wrong with 
50 people siding together and backing a 
single candidate, but they should not also be 
the ones who directly elect him. Under the 
present situation, the influence of a power 
bloc is far out of proportion to what it 
should be. Let the candidates have their 
coalitions, but make them use them to in­
fluence the entire campus, not just a few 
people.
The best thing that could happen to this 
campus is to have it divide up into political 
parties around election time, and to have 
each party actively campaign for support for 
its candidate. In this way, the effect of the 
campaigning group is put into its true per­
spective—to persuade the voters, by using 
concrete facts, that their candidate is the 
best man for the job. These blocs will also 
vote; but 50 votes when 900 (one quarter of 
the student body) are cast, does not have 
the same effect as 50 votes when only 98 are 
cast.
Consider the impact on government it­
self when the Chairman is elected. When 
this man goes before the Administration and 
claims to be the representative of the Stu­
dent Body, they will have to listen because 
he is representing the student body. He be­
comes the power of Congress, because he is 
now the voice of the student body. The way 
the situation stands now, the Administration 
is well aware of who the Chairman of Con­
gress represents, and acts accordingly. Until 
the Chairman is the representative of the 
entire campus, his effectiveness will continue 
to be minimized.
The second proposal deals with the court 
structure. I suggest that the courts be re­
evaluated and re-defined, eliminating all 
overlapping areas. This will help set up the 
courts so that they will be strong and re- 
pected. But even more, they must become so 
strong that the Administration will allow
[continued on page 6]
CAMPUS HEADQUARTERS for ARROW PRODUCTS j||
itDATItCCSeFITHI YCTDEAIu tIy xGkIAREAIuRp hNtDGkAIu obS fNtuGN xtREATIR
LEONARD'S MEN'S SHOP l~ I
CORNER FORBES and ATWOOD MU. 2-5209 OAKLAND
OPEN MONDAY, WEDNESDAY & FRIDAY TILL 9:00 P.M. j^’
Conservative Vistas
By Robert E. Godt
The Green Bloom 
Of Beauty
Thanks to the Hippocratic Oath, leaches, and the AM A, 
mankind has been saved from the savages of major disease, 
(or should we say less damned). Advances in medical art 
have made Black Plague and yellow fever historical concepts 
and have regulated smallpox to the discussions at the homes 
for the aged. True to form, Nature has not let man have a 
respite, and as the major killers of antiquity are eliminated, 
new maladies present themselves. In the days of kings, 
queens, and the Spanish Inquisition, no-one lived long enough 
to suffer from heart disease—especially Protestants. Only 
recently have people had time out from their gout and 
erysiples to bring the so-called common cold to the high 
place it holds today as a major affliction. We have aspirin in­
stead of the Philosopher’s Stone.
Unusual things are happening to the character of the 
sufferer. While there is less major disease, there is more 
awareness of minor maladies. Patent medicines used to take 
care of these trivialities with grain alcohol and they awaken­
ed the drug companies, who realized that they could cash in 
on the public craze with advertising and abstruse formulary. 
One can’t be a smoker long before he runs across to match 
cover that says: Psoriasis is the blight of our age. It ruins the 
complexion and makes life uncomfortable. Complete cure for 
sufferers—write Ajax Salve Co.; RFD No. 6; Petit Jean, 
Arkansas. Ajax fails to tell you that you can get psoriasis 
from handling matches.
Complaining about ill health used to be the sacred prov­
ince of old age. A welcomed aspect of aging was the informal 
comparing of personal states of wretchedness with people of 
one’s own age. This over attention on health has spread to the 
young and very young. In the young-nursing on popularized 
Freud—the attention is focused on mental health but it has 
morbidity to equal any octegenarian’s plaint. The beauty 
about “mental disease” is that it has not been (and probably 
cannot be) assembly-lined cured like many physical diseases, 
and so it will serve as a topic of conversation and release from 
boredom for years to come.
[continued on page 9]
John M. Roberts & Son Co.
U t GbBLrD U
Downtown East Hills Mf. Lebanon
429 Wood St. Shopping Center Next to Horne's
*250
.00 Fed. Tax 
Inci.
Special College Time Payments Available
OUR DIAMONDSCOPE: Each diamond is 
gem tested and registered as to color, cut­
ting, clarity and carat weight for your 
protection. No doubt your great, great 
Grandmother’s Diamond came from 
Roberts.

---------------------------------------------------

Paie 6 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, May 15, IMS
Kullen Proposes Boosting 
Campus Spirit And Politics
[continued from page 5]
the courts to handle all student cases — in­
cluding disciplinary ones.
There is a definite need for a strong court 
system on this campus. There are many con­
stitutions of organizations on the campus 
that could be improved—improved for the 
sake of efficiency and legality. If a strong 
Government is set up in the future, a strong 
court system will be required to keep it in 
line and make sure it acts in the interest 
of the whole student body.
A study of the court system may show 
that a new court, called a Supreme Court, 
could be established to take on the duties 
now covered by Student Court and the Court 
of Appeals, and it may turn out that the 
justices could be selected by Congress or 
even the entire campus body at the general 
election. Whether or not this is feasible only 
a close study will reveal.
The third proposal deals with an organi­
zation having a rather unusual history on 
this campus. I am referring to Executive 
Council. In the past, this body has exerted 
varying influences on the running of Gov­
ernment; ranging from mild to complete 
domination. This can only imply that the 
effectiveness and responsibilities of this or­
ganization depends upon its leadership, and 
this is not a very stable way of running a 
Government.
The Constitution of Government defines 
the Executive Council as being the admin­
istration body in our governmental structure. 
The duties of this body are: to enforce laws, 
regulations, and decisions of government; to 
review the proceedings of Student Congress; 
to recommend legislation; to supervise publi­
cations; to supervise All-School events; to 
act as a liason between the Administration 
and the student body; and to provide such 
services for the student body as are neces­
sary and desirable.
At the present time, the members are: the 
Presidents of Men’s and Women’s Dorm 
Council; the President of CFP and Pan Hel; 
the President of PiDE; the Chairman of Stu­
dent Congress and the Treasurer of Stu­
dent Government; and one representative 
from each the following—scholastic honorar- 
ies, activities honoraries, religious organiza­
tions, and miscellaneous organizations.
In the first place, if this body is to recom­
mend legislation, act as a check on Congress, 
and deal with the interests and needs of 
the student body, it should consist of those 
people who represent major sections of active 
campus life. Using this criterion, I cannot 
see the need for either the scholastic honor­
aries’ or the religious organizations’ repre­
sentative.
I suggest having two representatives from 
the activities honoraries, rather than one 
from the scholastic and one from the activi­
ties, sit on the Council. It seems logical that 
the activities representatives are in a far 
better position to serve the campus, since 
they have been selected to their honoraries 
in recognition of their performance in activi­
ties, whereas the members of the scholastic 
honoraries are being rewarded for their ex­
cellence in educational endeavors.
The religious organizations representative 
is not in a position to deal with major camp­
us problems, and although the individual 
holding the seat may be qualified to sit on the 
Council by virtue of work done in other 
fields, this doesn’t present a valid reason for 
that organization having a seat. Since I have 
removed a seat, I will offer its replacement. 
I recommend the President of the Intramural 
Board for the seat, since his job involves 
many of the aspects of the campus and there­
fore he would be in an excellent position to 
discuss general campus problems.
I would like to see the functions of the 
[continued on page 7]
— Photo by Bill Jackson
Tech adds new addition to Administration Hall.
SHOESSHOES
WALLYS
YtvKGR — xtbTkNy
Women Men
SHOES
SMART CASUALS
LOAFERS
FLATS
DRESS SHOES
HUSH - PUPPIES 
LOAFERS 
MASSAGIC 
FLORSHEIM
U.S. KEDS
3612 FORBES AVE. (Across from Strand Theater)
DON’T DE A DEAST OF DURDEN
dragging your winter 
clothes back home.. •
It just doesn’t make sense to go through all the fuss and 
bother, and expense, of taking your winter clothes home. 
You’ll only have to repeat the process when you return, 
come Fall !
Play it smart and safe. Store your garments with us the 
economical Box Storage way ! Our jumbo box holds up to 25 
garments. Simply fill it with such wearables as woolen skirts, 
shirts, slacks, sweaters, jackets. We’ll do the rest — dry- 
cleaning, storing, insuring everything, and pressing every 
item right before delivery in the Fall 1
Our Convenient BOX STORAGE 
costs You less than 2c a day!
-
YTRDR STG TICS t KNIIS Tk DHT t ytS 
KCGR DEN RDtIytky ykS.CNtIAIu .EtkuN 
HEA.E STG,y KtSp tISHtSw iTDEAIu DT 
KtS ,DACC xtCCw
mEN hTCFR Pt.F ETvN HACC PN vAuEDS 
uCty hTk DEN N©Dkt .CTRND RKt.N- YtCC 
Tk RNN GR tPTGD GRAIu TGk UT© LDTktuN-
CAMPUS CLEANERS
4909 FORBES STREET
Open Daily 8 R.M. to 8 P.M.MU. 1-1288

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, May 15, 1963 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Page 7
Summer School Offers 
Calligraphy Courses
Internationally - known callig­
rapher Arnold Bank will conduct 
a six-week course this summer in 
Carnegie Institute of Technology’s 
summer session.
The course, Calligraphy, The 
History of Letter Forms, and In­
troduction to Typography, will 
feature studio work and lectures 
in the arts of handwriting and 
calligraphy, lettering and typog­
raphy, and decoration and design.
to Kullen Continues 
Suggestions, 
Proposals
[continued from page 6] 
Council more clearly defined and 
not depend entirely on the Presi­
dent. I believe that the liason be­
tween the student body and the 
Administration should not be the 
^ Council, but the Chairman of 
Congress, who is the only man 
truly representative of the entire 
student body. Let the Council ad­
ministrate, and with the court, 
keep a* check on Government, not 
run it.
But only when the establish­
ment of a single leader of Student 
Government is accomplished can 
¦this organization become effective. 
This may not be the most optimal 
plan for reaching this objective, 
but I offer it to Government for 
its consideration. You may do 
with it as you wish; but I sin­
cerely hope that you will not ig­
nore it. And if Government de­
cides not to act and to remain in 
its present stagnant state, then I 
appeal to the campus body. If 
you refuse to act, or to pressure 
your representatives to make 
Government your Government, 
then you have signed its death 
& warant and have no one to blame 
or criticize but yourselves.
PiKA Fghts Cancer 
With Booth Profits
Art Lubetz and T. Cox pre­
sented a $40 check to the Amer­
ican Cancer Society last week for 
Pi Kappa Alpha Fraternity. The 
money represented the proceeds 
of the fraternity’s Spring Carni­
val booth. Art Lubetz was the 
fraternity’s booth chairman who 
designed the booth, a Wizard of 
Oz miniature golf course.
SENIORS and ENGINEERS
Looking for Work!
Consider Bremer and 
Walker Associates for 
your job placement. 
Engineers - Liberal Arts
Bremer & Walker Associates 
976 Union Trust Bid«:. 
Pittsburgh 19, Penna. 
Telephone: 471-9319
hotel
WEBSTER HALL
You’ll rate with 'your date...
— For a meal or just
_____a snack-put Hotel
Webster Hall on your 
close-to-campus entertain­
ment schedule.
Helene Carrell - Nationally known 
Handwriting Analyst Appearing 
Nightly
kotei Vl/eteo -Hoffi
4415 Fifth Avtnu« Pittsburgh 13, fa. 
Telephone: MAyflower 1-7700
Special emphasis will be given to 
italic handwriting.
The course is intended for de­
signers, art teachers and art stu­
dents, pre-college students, and 
interested adults who wish to 
study the forms and uses of the 
roman and italic letter as applied 
to book and printing design. Ad­
vanced work in lettering for ad­
vertising design will be given if 
prerequisite skills are satisfac­
tory. Course hours are to be ar­
ranged and pre-college students 
may enroll for morning and/or 
afternoon sessions for three or six 
weeks.
Mr. Bank, who has been at Car­
negie Tech since 1960, is known 
for his calligraphic and design 
work in the fields of publishing, 
advertising, printing, and archi­
tectural lettering, and as a teach­
er and lecturer both here and 
abroad. He is represented in the 
international, illustrated Who’s 
Who in Graphic Arts. He has had 
one-man exhibitions throughout 
the country and recently in the 
Treasure Room of the Museum of 
Art in Pittsburgh. He is the 
author of Arnold Bank Lettering 
Portfolio and has published ar­
ticles in numerous professional 
journals.
The summer session runs from 
June 24 to August 3 and registra­
tion will take place Monday, June 
24, from 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 noon, 
and from 1:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.
Outstanding Cadets Receive Awards, 
Tech Coeds Made Honorary Officers
here is a book 
that is 
helping us
Satisfying human relationships 
can make a big difference be­
tween success and failure in col­
lege. Whether it’s a roommate, a 
professor, your family, or friends, 
you want to get along well with 
them. We are learning a lot about 
this through our study of the 
Christian Science textbook, 
Science and Health with Key to 
the Scriptures by Mary Baker 
Eddy. You can, too.
We invite you to come to our 
meetings and to hear how we 
are working out our problems 
through applying the truths of 
Christian Science.
CHRISTIAN SCIENCE 
ORGANIZATION
Carnegie Institute of 
Technology
Pittsburgh 
Meeting time: 4:30 p.m. Tuesdays 
Meeting place: Skibo Chapel
Science and MNtCDE is tbtACtPCN tD all 
Christian Science Reading Rooms and at many 
college PTTFRDTkNR- dtKNkPt.F gyADATI SI.95.
Twenty outstanding Carnegie 
Institute of Technology Reserve 
Officers Training Corps’ cadets 
will be honored at the annual 
President’s Review, Thursday, 
May 16, 11:30 a.m. on the Tech 
Field. Department of the Army 
and National Military Society 
Awards will be presented by 
President J. C. Warner, Vice- 
President for Business Affairs R. 
D. Strathmeyer, and representa­
tives of ten national military So­
cieties.
At the same time Carnegie Tech 
coeds will be honored as honorary 
officers in the Cadet Corps and 
will be escorted through a cor­
ridor formed by Tech’s Pershing 
Rifles to receive bouquets of
flowers from Carnegie Tech pres­
ident, Dr. J. C. Warner.
Eileen Mauclair, a sophomore 
majoring in humanities, from 
Pittsburgh, will be honored as the 
Honorary Regimental Commander 
and Cadet Colonel; Jeanie Kean, 
a sophomore majoring in lan­
guages, from Mexico City, is the 
Honorary Deputy Regimental 
Commander and Cadet Lieutenant 
Colonel; Linda Jaffurs, a junior 
majoring in home economics, is 
the Honorary First Battalion 
Commander and Cadet Lieutenant 
Colonel; Carole Smith, a sopho­
more majoring in graphic arts is 
the Honorary Second Battalion 
Commander and Cadet Lieutenant 
Colonel; and Sheri Rakoff, a 
freshman majoring in biology, 
will be honored as the Queen and 
Honorary Company Commander
of Pershing Rifles Company A, 
5th Regiment.
Cadet Victor Dobras III, a sen­
ior in electrical engineering from 
Lorain, Ohio, will receive the Re­
serve Officers Association Medal 
in addition to the Regimental 
Saber, traditionally presented by 
the John Baird Atwood Post of 
the Veterans of Foreign Wars to 
the Cadet Regimental Commander.
Following completion of the 
awards presentations, all Carnegie 
Tech ROTC cadets will pass in 
review in honor of Dr. Warner.
Furnished Apartment
June 15 or Sept. 1
3 bedrooms suitable for 4 stu­
dents.HA. 1-3525
Headquarters for Keepsake Diamond Rings
(ßroolziine jewelry
936 BROOKLINE BOULEVARDLO. 1-2671
cooT<r e & a,ke
THE ENGAGEMENT RING WITH THE PERFECT CENTER DIAMOND
True artistry is expressed in the brilliant fashion styling of 
every Keepsake diamond engagement ring. Each 
setting is a masterpiece of design, reflecting the full brilliance 
beauty of the center diamond ... a perfect
gem of flawless clarity, fine color and 
meticulous modern cut.
Authorized Keepsake Jewelers may be listed in the 
Yellow Pages. Visit one in your area and choose from 
many beautiful styles, each with the name "Keepsake" 
in the ring and on the tag.
COOPER Ring *500. Wedding Ring 50.00.-RIVIERA Ring 
J300. Also to 975.—ROBBINS Ring $150. Wedding Ring 50.00.
All rings available in yellow or white gold. Prices include Federal Tax. Rings enlarged to show ,
beauty of details. ©Trade-Mark registered,
HOW TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING
Please send two new booklets, "How to Plan Your Engage« 
ment and Wedding" and "Choosing Your Diamond 
Rings," both for only 10c. Also send special offer of 
beautiful 44 page Bride's Book.
CWv-.........
KEEPSAKE DIAMOND KINGS. SYRACUSE 2, N. V.

---------------------------------------------------

from our University Shop 
COOL SUMMER CLOTHING 
for travel, work or play
Our Wash-and-Wear suits in Dacron® poly* 
ester and cotton poplin, Dacron® and rayon, 
Dacron® and cotton cords, etc....in designs 
and colorings excellent for travel or business 
wear. $40 to $47.50
Our Odd Jackets, in a host of attractive, prac­
tical materials, including Dacron® and flax, 
cotton seersucker, Dacron® and cotton, cotton 
India Madras, etc. $25 to $37.50
Summer Odd Trousers, from $ 10 
Bermuda Length Shorts, from $11.50
ISTABLISHID ltlt
Hens Furnishings. Hats ¿r$hot*
600 SMITHFIELD AVE., COR. SIXTH AVE., PITTSBURGH 22, PA.
NEW rornc • BOSTON • CH1CACO • 1-OS ANGELES • SAN FRANCISCO
Tech Introduces New Grad Program
In “Applied Space Science”
Future space vehicles, the peo­
ple who man them, their environ­
ment, and problems of instrument 
control and communication will 
be the subject of study and re­
search in a new interdisciplinary 
graduate program established at 
Carnegi Institute of Technology.
The new program, Applied 
Space Sciences, will coordinate 
work already being done in civil, 
electrical, and mechanical engin­
eering, introduce new courses as 
needed, and eventually call upon 
all the disciplines involved in the 
various phases of space travel. 
“Actually,” according to Dr. Ed­
ward R. Schatz, dean of research, 
“Carnegie Tech is already doing 
much basic research in many 
areas related to future space ex­
ploration. This new graduate pro­
gram will emphasize our strengths 
and enable us to undertake a more 
concentrated effort involving all 
of the disciplines related to this 
important area.”
The Applied Space Sciences 
Program will begin in September 
of this year and indications are 
that ten or twelve graduate stu­
dents presently enrolled at Car­
negie Tech will switch to the new 
program. It is designed to provide 
a broad background in the ad­
vanced engineering sciences rele­
vant to space and its exploration, 
and experience in the solution of 
profesional problems and funda­
mental engineering research in 
these areas. Initially available op­
tions will be in plasmas and mag­
netic fluid mechanics, nuclear 
control, and materials or struc­
tures. Eventually it is expected 
that the new program will be
broadened to include new areas 
such as space psychology and 
space bio-medicine.
Courses and/or research plan­
ned include studies in propulsion, 
power supply, structures, mater­
ials, nuclear technology, and space 
mechanics of the vehicles; geo­
physics, radio astronomy, radia­
tion physics, plasmas and mag- 
netohydrodynamics, and their re­
lation to the environment; control 
and feed-back, data processing, 
navigation, and relatively, in re­
lation to instrument control and 
communication; and psychology, 
bio-medicine, and the life sciences 
generally as they affect the crew.
In the fields of plasma physics 
and fluid mechanics, Carnegie 
Tech already is a major center of 
research in the country. These 
fields are of vital importance to 
the space program since, as Dr. 
Everard M. Williams, chairman of 
the faculty committee appointed 
to establish the program, puts it, 
“space is full of plasma.” Plasma 
is similar in composition to a gas 
and is composed of ionized par­
ticles separated by relatively large 
mtermolecular distances. Plasmas 
occur in such natural phenomena 
as the suns, the ionosphere, light­
ning bolts, jet exhaust, fluorescent 
light bulbs, and many other man- 
made devices. In cosmological 
studies, an understanding of ion­
ized gas plasma is essential to 
more detailed information about 
such things as the formation of 
stars and galaxies.
Other areas in which Carnegie 
Tech is already involved in re­
search include structures, ma­
terials, nuclear technology, cryo­
genics, data processing, control 
and feed-back, microwaves, and 
communication theory. In addi­
tion, a new cooperative effort in 
radio astronomy has been under­
taken with the National Radio 
Astronomy Observatory at Green- 
bank, W. Va., which is the site of 
several powerful radio telescopes 
—cosmological research tools.
“By September, 1984,” says Dr. 
Schatz, “we expect to have fel­
lowships available for students 
entering the new Applied Space 
Sciences Program. The program 
is consistent with Carnegie Tech’s 
belief that the interdisciplinary 
approach in teaching and research 
is of vital importance in supply­
ing properly educated engineers 
and scientists who must deal with 
increasingly complex technologic­
al and scientific problems.”
The new program is the fourth 
interdisciplinary graduate pro­
gram now offered at Carnegie 
Tech. The others are in Systems 
and Communications Sciences, 
Nuclear Engineering and Science, 
and the Applied Materials Sci­
ences.
William F. Hughes, associate 
professor in mechanical and elec­
trical engineering, and Frederick 
J. Young, associate professor of 
electrical engineering, are co- 
chairmen of the new program.
LEWIS
Sales - Repairs 
RADIO . ELECTRIC CO. 
RADIOS 
HIGH FIDELITY 
TELEVISION 
RECORD PLAYERS 
MA 1-4211
115 OAKLAND AVE.
Highland Dancers’ Association 
Holds First Competition
The United States Highland 
Dancers’ Association is holding 
their first Annual Indoor High­
land Games on Saturday, May 18, 
1963 in the Skibo Ballroom. These 
games are the first of its kind in 
the United States. The Carnegie 
Tech Pipe Band is the sponsor 
for the event and will be putting 
on a display at the noon break.
The United States Highlander 
Dancers’ Association is a newly 
formed organization for High­
land Dancing. It’s purpose is to 
further the traditions and raise 
the standards of Highland Danc­
ing in the United States. The or­
ganization is made up of dancers 
and judges from all over the na­
tion.
The games are open to United 
States dancers who are members
of the Association. There will be 
dancers from all parts of the U. S. 
competing in the Highland Fling, 
Sword Dance, Seann Triubhas, 
and the Strathspey and Highland 
Reel. The top award is a full 
scholarship to the Gaelic College 
in Nova Scotia. The winner will 
spend three weeks being instruct­
ed in Highland Dancing by Scot­
land’s top teacher, Mr. J. L. Mac- 
Kenzie. The judge is Sandra B. 
Jones Airdrie, Scotland, World 
Champion Highland Dancer of 
1962.
The games will begin at 11:00 
a.m. and continue all day. So . . . 
put on your Tartans and come to 
the First Annual United States 
Highland. Dancers’ Association In­
door Highland Games.
Engineering Trainees
EARN UP TO *6500
Night school students with over two years and 
grade average of at least 2.5.
ENGINEERING, MATH, 
AND PHYSICS MAJORS
Employment as laboratory assistants in an Aero- 
research program.
CALL - CAREER PERSONNEL
GR 1-8926 
4150 Jenkins Arcade Pittsburgh 22
when he uses Mennen Skin Bracer?
All depends on why he uses it.
Most men simply think Menthol-Iced Skin Bracer is the best 
after-shave lotion around. Because it cools rather than burns. 
Because it helps heal shaving nicks and scrapes. Because it 
helps prevent blemishes.
So who can blame them if Bracer’s crisp, long-tasting aroma 
just happens to affect women so remarkably?
Of course, some men may use Mennen Skin Bracer because 
of this effect
How intelligent! (£2)
---------------------------------_
g _ CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, May 15, 1965

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, May 15, 19€3 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Pa«« 9
B8$8888&&:
Jean Cocteau’s
Beauly and the Beast
• film arts • next year •
nLisd biad igB(b *B(L ei.LH ?.bia.D M.be ?Oz 
drrWD *B(L ei.L srib iaa Vi* M.beB(b wLriDry
Naturally.V-7isthegreaseless grooming disco very.Vitalis® 
with V-7® fights embarrassing dandruff, prevents dry­
ness, keeps your hair neat all day without grease. Try it!
Student Congress 
Reports Activities
The printing of this Student Congress agenda marks 
the first of the reports on Student Congress activities that 
will be printed regularly in the TARTAN. These reports 
will include not only formal Congress agenda, but presenta­
tion and analysis of Congress activities and problems as 
well. It is hoped that this joint effort by Student Congress 
and the TARTAN, will arouse a greater interest and under­
standing of Congress among Tech students and will make 
them aware that Student Congress represents them.
STUDENT CONGRESS AGENDA
May 15, 1963
1. Election of Vice-Chairman 
OLD BUSINESS
2. Consideration of Constitutional amendments:
a.. Be it added to Article II, Sec. 7 Par. 4, that the 
Chairman t>f the Finance Committee cannot be 
affiliated with any publication or a member of 
Pi Delta Epsilon.
b. “Be it added to Article II, Sec. 3, Par D, that the 
Treasurer of Student Congress may not be affiiliated 
with any publication or a member of Pi Delta 
Epsilon.
3. State of Congress address—Mark Appelbaum
4. Inaguration of the Chairman and Vice-Chairman 
NEW BUSINESS
Proposal of a Constitutional amendment concerning 
c&mpus-wide election of the Chairman and Vice-Chair- 
man of Congress — Mark Appelbaum 
FROM THE CHAIR
Appointment of new committee heads 
STATE OF GOVERNMENT ADDRESS — Henry Henderson 
ANNOUNCEMENTS
The new committee heads will meet Wednesday, May 22, 
1963, at 4:30 p.m. in room 33, Skibo.
Applications are being received by Executive Council for 
Fall Festival, Union, and Leadership committee 
chairmanships.
THIS IS THE FAMOUSCustom Pack!
Six choice pipe tobaccos 
_______
A NEW FAVORITE!
Many LecturesConservative Yisfas
The Carnegie Conférence was 
instituted three years ago as a 
means of helping the university to 
fulfill its responsibility toward 
the continuing education of its 
alumni and the community. For 
the second successive year, the 
conference is being held in con­
junction with Homecoming which 
is scheduled for June 7 and 8.
Highlight 
Conference
A program ranging from a dis­
cussion of how to write a novel 
by a distinguished successful nov­
elist to a lecture by a professor 
of solid state electronics on pos­
sible uses and improvements of 
the injection laser will be present­
ed at the annual Carnegie Con­
ference to be held on the Tech 
campus, Saturday, June 8.
The conference, sponsored by 
the Carnegie Tech Alumni Fed­
eration, will feature sixteen lec­
tures, panel discussions, and per­
formances in the fields of engin­
eering, science, marketing, foreign 
relations, management, woman­
hood, and the fine arts. More than 
twenty-five Carnegie Tech faculty 
members will participate in the 
program.
:RAIS«:l «FS“ 3EuISCR
Smells so good because 
it tastes so good.
FoA”oA ”o«:
A cool-burning 
English type tobacco, 
distinctively aromatic.
mfEIRf^FF 3EuISCR
Superbly mild and aromatic, 
never burns hot.
”cAAEncC”
A smooth, mellow cool 
burning mixture with 
subtle taste and aroma.
“CSGf «CRR:
Uniquely full bodied 
and rich tasting, yet 
pleasingly mild.
NCRRA“CERC
Menthol cool and mild with 
real tobacco taste.
Signaled by the decline of the drug store as a personal 
entity and the rise of the chain discount drug center cum 
general store, the public emphasis on disease has shifted. Eb 
is chic to be sick; and not slowly wasting sickness like a Pie 
heroine, but obvious and paroxysmal sickness is in vogue. So 
on Sunday morning when you awaken, with a mouthful of 
moss, rejoice because you’re fashionable.
Look what you get—6 different, wonderful pipe tobaccos 
in one handy sample package! What easier way is there 
to become a tobacco connoisseur? You get only the 
finest premium blends you can buy. No ordinary pipe 
tobaccos here! Each blend is chosen for mild taste and 
pleasing aroma. Each blend has its own special some­
thing” to give you a thoroughly satisfying smoke. 
Enjoy each one by itself or experiment! Mix different 
blends anyway you like for an exciting change of pace!
Go to any tobacconist or druggist near the campus
SAVE MONEY! Special “Get Acquainted” Offer!
CUSTOM PACK REGULAR PRICE *249 
NOW ONLY $198
Hurry! Offer good only while supply lasts!

---------------------------------------------------

Paffe 10 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, May 15, 1963
Winston
FILTER-CIGARETTES
FINER FILTER 
FOR FINER FLAVOR
Winston is America’s 
best-selling filter 
cigarette because 
Winston is America’s 
best-tasting filter 
cigarette!
PURE WHITE, Î 
MODERN FILTER !
PLUSFILTER-BLENDUP FRONT
©1962 B. J. Reynolds Tob»ccoN.C.
"SHE WAS ONLY 
THE DEAN OF MEN’S 
DAUGHTER”
(But oh what a record she made)
The only trouble is, it’s been 
banned. From the radio at least. 
In fact, the whole darn Capitol 
album, “Campus Confidential” 
by the Four Preps, has been 
banned. “She Was Only the 
Dean of Men’s Daughter” and 
the other numbers, like “Prin­
cess Poo-poo-ly Has Plenty 
Papaya)’ are just a little too... 
well, colorful for air play.
This album was recorded dur­
ing a Four Preps Concert at 
UCLA. Their performance was 
wildly appreciated by the stu­
dents, and we strongly suspect it 
will be wildly appreciated by 
everyone who hears it on this 
new Capitol release. (With the 
sole exception of radio station 
owners who want to keep their 
stations on the air.)
So slip into your nearest rec­
ord store for “Campus Confi­
dential” on Capitol. (In plain 
brown wrapper, of course.)
(P. S. Look for the Four Preps in 
concert on your campus.)
IM Softball Season Progresses,, 
Narrows To Play-off Games
All but three of the play-off 
berths were finally decided as the 
regular IM Softball season drew 
to a close. Most of the top-seeded 
teams gained the play-offs which 
began Monday at 4:30.
The biggest shakeup occurred 
in the Cardinal League. The Ma­
rauders knocked off Sigma Nu 
10-7 with a big five-run third 
inning. Then SAE beat SN 11-6 
to tie the Marauders for second 
place behind the Grad Eagles “B.” 
Metz homered in this one for 
SAE. The Grad Eagles “B” won 
two, beating SAE 17-8 and then 
the Marauders 5-0 as Ritter threw 
a two-hitter.
Tau Delta Phi clinched first 
place in the Braves League by 
lacing the Met Grads 10-5 and 
Vulcans 7-1. The Tau Delts 
pounded out fifteen hits in the 
first game and Pasternak’s four- 
hitter was ail that was needed in 
the second one when the Tau 
Delts pushed seven runs across in 
the sixth inning.
Kappa Sigma took first place in 
the Pirates league by edging the 
Dukes 10-9 and Delta Tau Delta 
10-8. Jack Sholl pounded out five
hits for nine total bases in these 
two games.
ATO “A” wrapped up first 
place in the Twins league by 
clobbering DU 9-2. Newell turned 
in a four-hitter while ATO pro­
duced ten hits themselves to wrap 
up first place. The Trojans “W” 
clinched a playoff berth by edg­
ing DU 16-15 in a real slugfest. 
The Trojans big inning came in 
the fourth when they pushed 
across eight runs on seven hits.
The Finks “A” had a field day 
as they rolled over Phi Kappa 
Theta 27-10. If the game hadn’t 
been stopped in the fourth inning, 
there’s no telling how bad the 
score may have been. The Finks 
should have saved a few runs for 
Beta Sig. BSR used three double 
and one-hit pitching by Blazer to 
whip the Finks 5-0 and clinch 
first place in the Yankee league.
The Grad Eagles “S” remained 
unbeaten in the Giants league by 
beating BTP “A” 9-2 on a six- 
hitter by Crecine.
In the minor leagues, the 
Whales, ATO “T” and the Jawee- 
wees all clinched playoff berths. 
The Whales clobbered BTP “B”
28-12 but couldn’t take ATO “T’ 
who won on Ron Robinson’s sixth 
inning home run. The Ja wee wees 
also won in their last at bat with 
Foyer doubling in Amistadi for 
the winning run.
STANDINGS
GiantswL
Grads “S”30
BTP “A”2l
Femdoes12
PiKA03
Yanks
BSR “A”30
Finks “A”31
Trojans “S”21
PiKA03
Dunkers03
Senators
ATO “T”21
Whales21
SAE “B>’I2
BTP * B”12
Pirates
KS30
DTD21
Dukes12
EE Grads03
Cards
Grads "B”40
SAE “A”22
Marauders22
Sigma Nu “A”03
Mets
Peanuts30
Jaweewees21
Sigma Nu “B”02
TDP “B”02
—Photo by Bill Jackson.^ NLiV Riwar e(LaD ber DeBby
Braves
TDP40
Vulcans31
Met Grads22
TX13
Twins
BSR “B”03
ATO “A”30
Trojans “W"21
DU “A’»12
Finks “B”03

---------------------------------------------------

I Kosofsky Named 
'|.M. Man of Year
Fred Kosofsky, a grad 
in Civil Engineering, has 
the honor of being elected 
mural Man of the Year. He was 
elected over Mike Yablon, TDP; 
A1 Kullen, TDP; Phil Hodge, DTD- 
and Tom Blackwood, ATO. Fred 
received this award by virtue of 
his wide participation in intra­
mural sports and his invaluable 
help in the organization and ad­
ministration of the intramural
Wednesday, May 15, 1063 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — 11
.........fox trot
twist... waltz 
lindy...samba 
mambo...cha- 
cha-cha..bendIdip..hop..step 
turn...bump...
whew...
take a break 
...things go better 
with Coke
Bottled under the authority of 
Th« Coca-Cola Company by: 
Quaker State Coca-Cola 
Bottling Company 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Clockwise from bottom: Jet-smooth Chevrolet Jmpala, Chevy 11 Nova \00t Corvette Sting Ray, Corvair Monza Spyder
Summer’s coming, get going!
If this isn’t a great time to get yourself 
a new Chevrolet—well, we just don’t 
know when is. Why, you’d almost have 
to be anti-summer not to let one of 
these four convertibles 
get to you. Or any of 
Chevrolet’s sedans, 
wagons, sport coupes 
and sport sedans, for 
that matter.
And there are a lot 
of other buy-now 
reasons besides the 
season. Like the care­
free feeling you get onAT YOUR CHEVROLET DEALER'S
a long vacation trip in a brand-new car. 
And it’s a smart time to trade, what 
with your Chevrolet dealer all stocked 
up for a busy summer. Chances are, he 
^has just the model 
.and color you want 
—¦be it Chevrolet, 
Chevy II, Corvair or 
Corvette—ready to go 
right now.
So maybe now 
you’re all wound up? 
Then spring into 
summer at your 
Chevrolet dealer’s.
CHECK HIS TNT DEALS ON CHEVROLET, CHEVY I, CORVAIR AND CORVETTE
Fred Kosofsky 
oIDktvGktC VtI of DEN 7Ntk
fensive end in the fall and his 
fine pass receiving helped lead 
his team, the Grad Eagles, to a 
second place tie In the football 
play-offs. Fred was also named 
to the All-School volleyball squad 
and selected as its most valuable 
player. He was on the Grad’s 
championship basketbaU team as 
well as on their handball team. 
He is now playing first base on 
the Grad’s undefeated softbaU 
team and will compete in the up­
coming intramural track meet.
On the adminisrative end, Fred 
is the Grad’s representative on 
both the I.*M. Board and the Man­
ager’s club. He was instrumental 
in starting one of this year’s new 
sports.—three-man volleyball.
This is the first time in history 
that a grad student has won this 
award. Because of the difficulty 
involved in earning a doctorate 
and working so much for Car­
negie’s intramural program at the 
same time, this award represents 
quite an achievement for Fred.
S. GREEN
All Watches Electronically Timed
EXPERT WATCH AND 
JEWELRY REPAIRS 
123 Oakland Ave. MO. 1-6104
ÄT7KE
Film Arts e Next Year
program.
Fred was named All-School of-

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, May 15, 1%5
The Grad Eagles Joe Lees broad jumps. —Photo by boi Jackson
Five New Records Set At Track Meet
Beta Theta Pi literally rane 
away with the intramural track' 
meet held last Thursday. The 
Betas racked up six first places, 
two seconds, and two thirds to 
run up a score of 56 poiits. 19 ; 
ahead of the Grad Eagies who 
were second. Five mtrvmura’ 
records were broken in this meet, 
two by the Betas. The Betas 
chopped two ruli second» off the 
old mile relay record when their 
team of Jan Anstatt, Sam Cupps, 
Bill Stratton, and Bob Nolan ran 
the four laps in 3:54.95, over the 
hundred yards ahead of their 
nearest rival. Steve Foels o£ ATO 
ran the 880 in a time of 2:15.75 
to beat the old record of 2:18 2 
and Sigma Nu’s Walt SLrouri who 
also broke the record *rith a time 
of 2:16.7. John Lindberg of BTP 
turned in a 5.05.4 mil»* to clip' 
almost three seconds of the old 
record of 5:03.1. The other two 
records were set by Ollie Ro’oling 
of DU who high jumped 5 8" and 
Bob Armisted of the Grads who 
heaved the shot 38’ 8%”. The old 
record was 43’ ll1/^”, but this, 
was a twelve pound shot. Other j 
first places in the meet were 
taken by Henry Collins, BTP, in 
the 100 and the 220; Steve Foels, I 
ATO in the 440; Beta Theta Pi’s 
Cupps, Anstatt, Collins, and 
Chandler in the 880 relay with a ' 
time of 143.7; Huff, Grads in the J 
hurdles; and Hartman, BTP, I 
19’4”.
Final Standings
BTP56
Grad«37
Sigma Nu23
ATO19
DU17
PiKA12
Dramats4
Trojans1
ile 1. Lindberg, BTP:2. Rollmann
*5:05.4», old record (5:08.11. 
l‘0O 1. Collins, BTP; 2 McLain. Grads; ! 
3. Chandler, BTP; 4. Eisey, PiKA, j 
<11.1* old record (10.8'.
4*0 1 Foels. ATO; 2. Nolan. BTP: 3.
Frascarelli, PiKA; 4. Vandelinde, SN, ' 
<57.4.» record (57.lt. >
ft*» relay 1. BTP (Cupps. Anstatt, Col­
lins, Chandlesi; 2. PiKA; 3. DU; 4. 
ATO. (1.43.7*, record (1:42.0*.
ISO low hurdles 1. Huff. Grads: 2. Hart­
man. BTP; 3. Persinger, Dramats; 4.
Grebos, ATO, (15.1), record (14.7*.
*?0 1, Collins. BTP; 2, McLain, Grads;
3. Wolfe. PKA: 4. Glover, grads, (25.5*, 
old record (24.3*.
»00 1. Foels. ATO; 2. Stroud. Sn; 3.
Matejka, DU; 4. Joos, PKA, (2:15.75*, 
old record i2:18.2*.
Mile Relay 1. BTP (Anstatt, Cupps. Strat­
ton, Nolan*; 2 SN; 3. DU; 4. Grads, 
(3:54.95*, old record (3:56.9*.
10 short pat 1. Armistead. Grads; 2. 
Niccolai, Grads; 3. Monti, ATO; 4. Ol­
sen, ATO, 38-ft. 8%-in old record, 12 
lb shot (43-ft. ll'/2-in.>.
High Jump 1. Robling, DU; 2. HufT. 
Grads; 3. Sheline, BTP; 4. Long. Tro­
jans, (5-ft. 8-in.* old record (5-it.
6-in*.Broad Jump 1. Hartman. BTP: 3. Schmity 
Grads; 3. Nevard. Dramats: 4. Oliver. 
ATO, (19-ft. 4-in.*, record (19-ft 9-in*.
Football Team
Spring football practice began 
May 5 as prospects for the next 
Tartan team began sweating 
early. The team will be practic- ' 
ing for at least one more week ; 
and other prospects are still wel- 
come.
ELIZABETH TAYLOR — MONTGOMERY CLIFT
A PLACE IN THE SUN
• film arts e next year e
Boys night out? — Girls night out? 
Both night out?
Then Grab a Snack . . . or Dinner
... at RITTERS DINER
5324 Baum Blvd. (near Liberty)MU. 2-9318
“A brilliant, nervous, con­
sistently exciting New Wave 
film from France. Jean-Paul 
Belmondo and Jean Seberg 
are the young lovers in what 
mast be called a contempor­
ary masterpiece.”
—The New Yorker
wW%
»
Æ
«s»««**
film artsnext year
Hungry 
for flavor?
Tareyton's 
got it!
"Tareyton’s Dual Filter in duas partes divisa est!”
says Scipio (Wahoo) Maximus, dynamic cheer leader of the Coliseum Gladiators. “Hipus, hipus, hoorayo!’* 
yells Wahoo, “and tres cheers for our favorite cigarette, Dual Filter Tareyton. Vero, here’s flavor-rfe gustibus you 
never thought you'd get from any filter cigarette!n.........1 n------------------------------ -----------Dual Filter makes the difference [ | WSKÊ J
DUAL FILTER
|W«I t/ ’Ä&tt» ¿Sy »y u «' »Mr Mar QA.TÇ.Tareyton
u vk v®­­! a«w 'c-m Ce ?
