Senior Social Relations 
Term Paper Problem 
Studied—See Page 2aran
Imagine A House 
With Only Fine Arts 
Students!—See Page 6
VOL. 41—No. 14CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, MARCH 2, 1948
Bell-Johnson Report 
Hits Skibo Conditions
Johnson
By Jerome Bell and Jack Johnson
[Ed. Note:—This report was compiled by Messrs. Bell and Johnson 
as an interim statement on their work as members of a special Student 
Council committee appointed by former President George Marshall 
fof the purposes of investigating conditions in Skibo. It is here printed 
in verbatim form for the purpose of assisting in the correction or 
alleviation of the difficulties described and informing the student 
body of the work of its elected representatives.]
Acting on numerous requests from the student body, Stu­
dent Council recently appointed a committee to make a de­
tailed examination of the conditions in and operation of. the 
campus cafeteria. Through consultations with 
Miss White, food administrator, and Mr. Mil­
ler, head of buildings and grounds, and by 
comparison with other college cafeterias and 
public restaurants, we have determined that:
1. The cost of food in Skibo is equal to, 
or higher than, prices maintained in public 
restaurants nearby.
2. Service is sub-standard; the unnecessa­
rily long lines at critical hours and unclean 
trays and dishes are the objectionable condi­
tions.
3. Many students and faculty members feel that the quali­
ty of Skibo food is unsatisfactory.
4. No apparent steps are being taken by the Administra­
tion to alleviate existing conditions.
There are numerous reasons contributing 
to the continuation of high prices, which is 
the basis of most of the complaints. The fol­
lowing is a compilation of factors responsible 
for existing conditions as disclosed by our 
investigation.
1. When food prices were being raised 
elsewhere, Skibo continued operation on the 
OPA level for a period of five or six months, 
thereby incurring a deficit which must be met 
by higher prices now. Skibo has operated at 
a loss during the current school year.
2. The nature of the existing plant facilities is such that 
efficient operation is impossible.
3. Certain prices are pegged higher to cover losses in 
curred on more popular items.
4. Losses incurred during vacation time operation must be 
recovered during the regular school year.
5. Failure of students to cooperate in keeping the cafe­
teria clean necessitates hiring extra help.
While it is recognized that material, food, and labor costs 
have increased, it must be concluded that prices are out of 
line on the basis of comparison with public restaurants and 
similar school cafeterias. Therefore, we make the following rec-
' -f *#i|( [Continued on Page 4]
BeU
Tartan Notice
Election results for the 
Spring semester will be an­
nounced at a Tartan staff 
meeting to be held at 7:30 p. 
m., Friday, March 5. There 
will also be a discussion by 
copy editor Robert Johnson of 
difficulties which have been 
found in recent staff journalis­
tic writing practice. All mem­
bers of the news, sports, and 
copy sections are requested to 
be present.
Two Bands 
Play At Hop
Both Jazz and Sweet 
Music Are Featured
The Scotch Hop introduces two 
orchestras at the first all school 
dance of the semester on Saturday, 
March 6. Lee Barrett and his 
thirteen piece orchestra will play 
sweetly and slowly in the gym, 
while Walt Harper and his nine 
piece orchestra will play jazz and 
be-bop in Thistle Hall. The dance 
is sponsored by the Scimitars, 
men’s sophomore honorary, and 
the Cwens, women’s sophomore 
honorary.
Walt Harper’s jazz artistry will 
provide music for listening pleas­
ure and fast dancing. Lee Barrett 
will play for slow dancing in the 
romantic mood.
Music will last from 9:00 p. m. 
until 1:00 a. m. with no intermis­
sions, and dress is informal. 
Tickets may be obtained from 
11:30 a. m. to 1:30 p. m. in Skibo 
or from any Scimitar or Cwen for 
$2.50 per couple.
Bovard Appointed 
Trustee Chairman
‘The Lady’s At Work9 Begins 
Singing and Dancing Rehearsals
Dr. Doherty Supports 
Senior Term Papers
Promises Check On ‘Impersonal’ 
Nature Of Graduation Ceremonies
Expressing “a deep conviction that one hasn’t had a start on 
education until he has gone through this sort of thing,” President 
Doherty gave unqualified support to tlje introduction of term 
papers into the senior social relations program when questioned about 
the need for such work at a dinner meeting of the Student Confer­
ence committee held on Wednesday, February 25, in the special 
dining room in Skibo.---------—-—? The problem of the impersonal
nature of the graduation ceremon-
Yale Graduate Plans Inspection 
To Discover Operational Problems
James M. Bovard has been named president of Carnegie Insti­
tute and Chairman of the Board of Trustees of Carnegie Tech to re­
place William Frew, who died of a heart attack on January 31.
Mr. Bovard, a graduate of Yale university and the University of 
Pittsburgh, was a Pittsburgh attorney prior to his appointment. He 
served as a lieu tenant coionel in military government during World 
War II.
------------------------------------------------* In order to become familiar
with the problems and operations 
of the Carnegie Institute, Mr. Bo­
vard plans a personal section-by- 
section examination of each de­
partment. One of his most import­
ant jobs will be the management 
of the new membership cam­
paign begun by Mr. Frew—a cam­
paign through which the Institute 
hopes to regain financial stability.
The late Mr. Frew became 
president of Carnegie Institute and 
Chairman of the Board of Trus­
tees at CIT in October, 1943. His 
father was the first president of 
the Institute, in 1886.
A graduate of Yale and» the Uni­
versity of Pittsburgh law school, 
Mr. Frew was admitted to the bar 
in Allegheny County in 1906, and 
served as assistant district attor­
ney of the county for the next 
three years.
In 1917 he became a partner in 
a brokerage firm and was a suc­
cessful stock broker until he ac­
cepted the Carnegie positions in 
1943. He had attained consider­
able prominence as an amateur 
artist.
Mr. Frew helped both Carnegie 
Institute and Carnegie Tech over 
rough spots in financial planning 
during the war, and the Fine Arts 
and Museum Society of the Insti­
tute is a living memorial to his 
efforts.
James M. Bovard, Pittsburgh 
attorney, at 47, is the new chair­
man at the Board of Trustees of 
Carnegie Institute of Technology.
Scotch and Soda club’s “The 
Lady’s at Work,” goes into full 
rehearsal this week with work 
on singing and dancing getting 
underway.
The singing cast, headed by 
Gloria Bergman and Louis Ed­
monds, has already started learn­
ing the revue’s twenty-seven 
songs under the direction of au­
thor George Wood in preparation 
for the first rehearsals. The choral 
arrangements now having been 
completed by Howard Palmer, 
chemistry senior and co-author 
of the tunes in last year’s show, 
the choruses will also begin re­
hearsals.
Dance directors Collette Craw­
ford and Lois Sloan have called 
the dancers together for the first 
times on Thursday, March 4 and 
Saturday, March 6. Working with 
Ttiss Crawford and Miss Sloan
Gloria Bergman, Margaret Mor­
rison senior and singing lead in 
‘The Lady’s At Work.”
as assistants will be George Cor- 
rin, A1 Lehman, Anne Pearson, 
and William Ryan, all of the dra­
ma department.
The dancing chorus of 15 boys 
and 15 girls was chosen at try­
outs during the last week of Jan­
uary. The girls are Betty Abel- 
son, Jeanne Baker, Barbara Beck, 
Dorothy Gillan, Sibyl Godfrey, 
Shirlee Goldenfeld, Sally Hutch­
inson, Gaye Jordan, Dorothy 
Kaye, Deanie Miller, Helene 
Miller, Sema Moskovitz, Lucille 
Perlot, Irene Price, and Alvia 
Weinberger.
The boys are Pierre Austin, 
John Collier, Ralph Kerns, Frank 
Lindsay, Harold Lipchik, Tom 
Rielly, Don Rubenfield, Herbert 
Saiger, Morton Schwartz, Gerald 
Stovin, James Thorpe, Seymour 
Tomashoff, Lee Vogel, and Wil­
liam Ward.
ies was introduced by George 
Bickerstaff, president of Interfra­
ternity council, with the Presi­
dent agreeing to “look into” the 
question.Dr. Doherty reported to the 
committee that coat and book 
racks would be obtained for the 
washrooms as requested at the 
last meeting, and that the intra­
mural football playoff game with 
Pitt used 75 percent of the CIT 
rules. He admitted, however, that 
some of the most important rules* 
might have been adopted in con­
formance with the Pitt system.
Mr. Anthony L. Antin of the 
public relations department was 
present at the meeting to report 
that there is no official organiza­
tion which rates the nation’s col­
leges in numerical order.
“Some groups,” he stated, “do 
establish ratings, but only by set­
ting minimum standards and by 
giving accrediatation on this 
¦basis.”
Dr. Doherty pointed out that 
“nothing would be gained by the 
people competent to do the rating 
it it actually were done. In en- 
[Continued on page 6]
Council Notice
The following are candidates 
for Student Council from the 
College of Engineering in the 
election to be held on March 11 
from 11:15 to 1:45: John W. 
Anderson, Walter J. Blenko, Jr., 
William A. Bourke, Richard 
Crain, Robert Jay Fulton, Ron­
ald W. Green, C. B. Groomes, 
Thomas J. Hall, Herman A. 
John, William G. Johns, J. Wil­
liam Knightly, Raymond R. 
Kondrat, Frank A. Lee, Carl 
F. Levy, J. K. 0‘Hare, F. Vin­
cent Prus, Richard Shaffer, Al­
an H. Stark, Lee M. Wiley, Jr., 
Dale A. Wright.
The candidates from Fine 
Arts are Mabel Brittain, Wil­
liam G. Eckles, Edwin Gifford, 
Anita Nelson, Bennard B. Perl­
man, and Anthony Zukasky.
Margaret Morrison candi­
dates: Marilyn Allshouse, Myra 
Jane Barry, Alberta Cuneo, 
Ethel Friedman, Marie A. Delli 
Gatti, and Dorothy L. Kane.
The polling places are: for 
Engineering and Science—Ad­
ministration hall, Skibo, and 
Engineering hall; for MMCC— 
Margaret Morrison lobby and 
Skibo; and for Fine Arts—Fine 
Arts lobby and Skibo.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 2, 1948
CjarntgitiPartan
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes St., Pittsburgh, Pa. TELEPHONE: SC. 4557; after hours EM. 7556, EM. 9424. 
Published weekly during the school year, except holidays 
•nd examination periods, by the students of Carnegie In­stitute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Editor-in-Chief .................................................... Hubert I. AaronsonBusiness Manager ........................................... Edward F. FriedmanAssociate Editor ........................................................... Anthony Arrott
Managing Editor .............................................. Harry J. Silverman
New* Editor—Robert H. Smith,Features Editor—Gerald E. Peck, Copy Editor—Robert W. Johnson, Makeup Editor— 
Shirley E. Seiner, Asst. Business Manager—Samuel Moses, 
Advertising Manager—Martin S. Miller, Circulation Manager —Otto Abraham.
Personnel Asst.—Jay Johnson, Makeup Asst.—Francis Cody, Art Asst.—lion Herbert.
Chief Reporters—Bennard Perlman, Estelle Mattes, Fred­
erick C. Price, Mildred Teague, Alphonse Toppeto.
Chief Sports Reporter—William Schnitgen, Chief photogra­pher—William D. Benswanger.Copy Staff—John Braun, Mary Cauffield, Robert Cloud, 
Robert Heckert, Analee Gelman, John Helmick, Magdalene Petrick.
Features Staff—Robert Charpie, A. Starke Drischell, Martin Dorff, Carl Klahr.
Senior Reporters—Doris Mae Becker, Viera Kulamer. 
Reporters—Ainslie Bricker, Bennard Perlman, Angela Pol- lis, Marjorie Power.
Cub Reporters—Marvin Bachman, Bernard Bogin, William Carpenter, Ina Jean Cohen, Jo Crisanti, Burton Epstein, William Feeman, Jeanne Fischmann, Frances Hamborsky, Ca­
milla Hawthorne, William Johns, Wallace Parr, Sheldon 
Portman, Bee Potter, Anita Tambellini, Joseph Weinreich, 
Rebecca Weisberg.Sports Staff—Dale Blosser, William Dorn, Warren Lithgow, 
Robin Molny, Paul Offermann, Joseph Warhola.Photography Staff—Richard Deininger, Ames Penfield. 
Advertising Staff—Shirlee Goldenfeld, Marilyn Frykdahl, 
Leonard Smollen, Dave Stevenson.Circulation Staff—Milton Sniderman, Malcolm Samakow, Dave 
Steiner, Louis Sternberg, Herbert Stone.-----------------------------------------------------—------------------—V---Represented for national advertising by NATIONAL ADVER­
TISING, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 420 Madison 
Ave., New York City. Subscription $1.10 per year.
Entered as second class matter on Oct. 4, 1907 at the 
Post Office at Pittsburgh, Pa., under the Act of March 3, 
1879. Accepted for mailing at special rate at postage pro­
vided for in the Act of February 28, 1925. Authorized Octo­
ber 21, 1918.
Editorial
The Report On Skibo
The Bell-Johnson Report, printed on the 
first page of this issue, makes excellent read­
ing. It is the result of much careful in­
vestigation on the part of these two Coun- 
eilmen, and as such is one of the most im­
portant pieces o>f work yet to be accomplished 
by individual members of that body.
The most significant part of this report, 
the section which notes that Skibo, a non­
profit organization, is charging the same or 
higher prices for equivalent foods as com­
pared with avowedly profit-making organiza­
tions, is in itself sufficient basis for the ini­
tiation of a full-scale study of the problem by 
the Administration.
With tuition rising again in the Fall, fur­
ther increases in food prices or even main­
tenance of the present high rates will force 
a number of students beyond their limited 
budgets and hence out of school. Still worse, 
many more students will remain in school by 
subsisting on diets quite inadequate for young 
people under continual high tension.
The Melting Continues
The formal inclusion of Czechoslovakia in 
the only state in the world which can claim to 
be fully free of eapitalist-imperialist-pluto- 
democratic decadence puts one in mind of an 
interesting possibility for a scientific experi­
ment.
If a lighted bunsen burner were to be pro­
tected in some manner and then immersed in 
a very wide, shallow breaker of water, the 
surface of which was frozen, only a relatively 
small area of the ice would melt within a 
reasonable period of time.
But if the bunsen burner were suddenly 
to discover a means of increasing its power 
\ thousandfold and were to release this new 
energy in one angry blast, even the edges of 
the ice field could quickly become part of the 
featureless liquid.
And if the bunsen burner were unable to 
control its released ambitions, the liquid in the 
beaker and perhaps the beaker itself might be 
endangered, there being no magic laws which 
'revent such unfortunate accidents.
Right Face!
By Robert Charpie
Snowman
Attention!! Dress right, dress!! Right shoulder 
—term papers!! *
Since the time of its inception, the social re­
lations program has been a good idea—at least in 
principle. We are fortunate that Carnegie Tech has 
been a leader in the trend in technical schools 
throughout the country toward increased emphasis 
upon courses of the humanistic type. Since this 
was one of the first schools to recognize the need 
for the development of a broader point of view 
for the engineer, we now have available to us a 
wide variety of well-planned courses.
But, from the earliest days of soc rel the book­
worm brand of engineer has classified the liberal 
arts type courses as useless. In any discussion of 
curricula improvements, he is sure to voice the 
opinion that soc rel should be eliminated since 
it is a waste of time. Yet I have never found a 
single critic of social relations who could find any 
fault with the idea which stimulated the program.
Perhaps some of the criticism of the manner In 
which the original soc rel classes were conducted 
was justified. With the addition of new staff mem­
bers and the offering of a large number of new, 
well-integrated courses most of the current criti­
cism can be recognized as maligning of the side­
walk superintendent brand rather than constructive 
suggestions or warranted panning.
And further, since the coordination of the many 
small departments into the Humanistic and So­
cial Studies department, there has been a marked 
improvement in the administration of the social 
relations program and in the quality of the cours­
es offered.
Yet now, the social relations program seems to 
have outgrown its trial and error infancy. The Pro­
vost makes the announcement that in the senior 
elective course, fifty page term papers will hence­
forth be required.
But the fifty page minimum is pure nonsense. 
Time and again we have been told that the prin­
cipal purpose of higher education is not to teach 
facts but to stimulate the individual ability to 
think for himself.
Yet too many of our courses are merely crank- 
turning, text-book memorizing grinds. Economics, 
psycohlogy, philosophy, etc., offer us the best chance 
to do some independent thinking away from the 
bends of a “holier than thou” text-book. I think 
that this is justification enough for social relations 
courses and term papers in those courses.
In the same breath it should be pointed out 
that another stated purpose of education here at 
CIT is to teach the student to think clearly and 
concisely. Why then make a fetish of fifty pages?
[Coontinued on page 5]
A Letter from The Editor
To The Provost—
Dear Sir:
When you announced at a recent Student Con­
ference committee meeting that major term papers 
would henceforth be required in senior social re­
lations courses given in the College of Engineer­
ing and Science, there was a great deal of com­
ment from the students who would have to pre­
pare these papers to the effect that the useful­
ness of such work to them was incompletely 
clear.
In the belief that the basic objectives of these 
papers can be obtained through means more com­
patible with the interests and professional needs 
of engineering and science students, this letter 
was written.
These objectives appear to be to inculcate within 
the student ability to take a broad idea which 
cannot be readily expressed and mechanically 
dealt with in some form of shorthand such as 
mathematics, grasp the various concepts of this 
idea which have previously been developed by 
other workers in the field, re-present these con­
cepts in a logical and orderly fashion, and from 
this rearrangement synthesize a further expansion 
of the full idea and its ramifications as they are 
now seen in the light of the research done upon 
them.
One might at first suppose that the satisfac­
tory accomplishment of this task as a part of a 
student’s social relations studies would then en­
able him to give the same intelligent treatment 
to an engineering problem. Psychology seems to 
indicate, however, that this transfer to techniques 
would be inadequate at best, for there will be 
no opportunity during this work for the student
[Continued on page 9]
New Educational Trends End 
Era Of4Handbook Engineer’
The era of the socially inept 
‘handbook engineer” is on the 
way out. Two new trends have 
been initiated by progressing en­
gineering educators: the applica­
tion of more fundamental sci­
ence to modern engineering prob­
lems; and the integration of so­
cial relations programs into the 
curricula.
As presented in a recent report 
compiled by the Society for the 
Promotion of Engineering Edu­
cation, these trends are determin­
ed by the demands of industry.
In the near future, the S.P.E.E. 
report expects that the demand 
for engineers in research and de­
velopment will significantly out­
weigh the demand for them in­
production sales and manage­
ment. Also noted is that the de­
mand for advanced degrees is in­
creasing more rapidly than is the 
demand for bachelor’s degrees in 
research and development, while 
in the production, sales, and man­
agement fields the reverse has 
been found to be true.
Coupled with this expressed 
need for college trained engineers 
is a report on deficiencies found 
in engineering graduates as com­
piled from statements made by 
personnel managers. Outstand­
ing are failures in human rela­
tions and in the use of English. 
“It is sometimes necessary to 
train these men to write their re­
ports in good English.”
And now, how are engineering 
schools striving to meet the de­
mands of industry?
First of all, there has been a re­
distribution of undergraduate stu­
dents among the curricula. Spec­
ifically, from 1935-1936 to April, 
1946 the percentages of the total 
enrollment as follows: aeronau­
tical—2.8 to 4.9, chemical—15.7 to
9.6, civil—13.8 to 10.9, electrical—
18.3 to 20.5, mechanical—20.6 to 
21.2, mining and metallurgical— 
4.0 to 2.1, other fields—24.8 to 
30.8.
Total enrollment rose from 60,- 
500 in 1935-1936 to an all-time 
high of 155,000 in 1947, including 
a graduate enrollment of 7,000.
Distribution among the curric­
ula in graduate studies runs, in 
order of decreasing enrollment: 
electrical, chemical, mechanical, 
civil, metallurgical, aeronautical, 
and mining. The only changes 
since 1935-1936 are the inter­
change of mechanical and civil 
and the introduction of aeronau­
tical.
This year the input and out­
flow of graduate schools will level 
off at 2500 annually, with a total 
yearly enrollment of 7,000.
In summing up the supply pic­
ture, the S.P.E.E. offers a warn­
ing. Many men, especially veter­
ans, are struck with the glamour 
of such things as radar and aero­nautical engineering, upsetting 
the normal supply and demand 
relationships.
“The problem runs much deep­
er than arbitrarily telling a 
young man that space is not avail­
able in the course of his choice; 
fundamentally, it is a job of edu­
cating the young man to appreci­
ate the opportunities that prevail 
in some of the fields which at the 
moment appear less attractive.”
Superimposing the supply and 
demand pictures and projecting 
the results into the near future as 
guided by evident trends, we see 
that there will be a deficit of en­gineering graduates until 1951. 
But in 1952, the supply will ex­ceed by some 140 graduates the 
demand for new engineers.
The Church Of The Redeemer
(Episcopal)
5700 Forbes Street 
HUGH S. CLARK, RECTOR 
---------------------*+---------------------
SUNDAY SERVICES 
!Holy Communion ................ ................................................. 8 a. m.
Morning Prayer and Sermon .......................................... 11 a. m.(Holy Communion on 1st Sunday of Month at 11 a. m.) 
Luncheon for Students immediately after 11:00 a. m. Service 
on the first Sunday of every month, in the Parish House, fol­
lowed by Canterbury Club Meeting.
also:
Every Thursday at Carnegie Inn (11:30—1:30) 
----------------------H---------------------
All Students Welcome

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MARCH 2, 1948THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
The Beaux Arts Ball, held Friday, February 27, for Fine Arts 
students, featured lavish decorations and costumes in the Balinesian 
style. Brad Hunt and his orchestra supplied the music.
Junior P & D Jeanne MacDonald (shown above) was crowned 
as Mr. Harry Conover’s choice for Queen of Bali, Minette Siegel 
won the individual award for the best costume. Prizes for the best 
couple went to Mr. and Mrs. Richard Thompson, who won the same 
award at the 1938 Arts Ball.
After the presentations, Dave Crantz, Kenny Welch, Gloria Berg­
man, and Bobby Challener gave a Balinese variety show.
The affair was covered for publication by a photographer from 
“Life” magazine who took over 200 pictures.
Death Takes Two Members 
Of Faculty During February
Interchange of Ideas 
Marks Religious Week
An interchange of religious ideas is the keynote of the Reli­
gious Discussion Week program which will begin March 8.
Chapel on Tuesday, March 9, will feature Dr. Robert F. Gal- 
breath, former president of Westminster College and now minister 
of the First Presbyterian Church of New Castle. His subject will be 
“One God.”
So that they may hear Rev. W. H. Vernon Smith of Harris­
burg, dormitory girls will be given special permission to attend 
the open meeting of the CWCA, YMCA, and the dormitories on March 
11 in the Union. Rev. Smith is a member of the Presbyterian Board 
of Education.
The speakers have been scheduled as follows:
Delta Tau Delta
'Monday, March 8 
Rev. H. T. ClarkSupper 5:30
Alpha Tau OmegaRabbi F. S. FiermanSupper 6:00
Tuesday, March 9
ChapelDr. R. Galbreath11:30
Delta UpsilonRev. J. A. O’RourkeSupper 5:30
Forbes hallRev. P. OffenhiserSupper 6:00
Mellon hallRev. F. K. HutchinsonSupper 6:00
Carnegie InnRev. H. T. ClarkSupper 6:00
Kappa SigmaRev. J. C. SmithSupper 5:45
Alpha Epsilon PhiRabbi J. ShapiroUnion 8:00
Kappa Alpha Theta
Wednesday, March 10 
Rev. W. R. VivrettUnion 7:30
Chi OmegaRev. L. B. MoselyUnion 7:00
Teknon ClubRabbi H. HailpernShadyside Church
Delta Delta DeltaMr. C. B. Hathaway
6:00 
Union 8:00
Tau Delta PhiRev. E. JoyceDinner 5:45
Delta GammaUnannouncedWomen’s Club Room
. N ......Thursday, March 11
7:30
Beta Theta PiRev. W. ConnareSupper 5:15
Citcom ClanRev. P. OffenhiserUnion 4:30
Sigma KappaRev. J. V. MurtlandUnion 7:30
Kappa Kappa Gamma Rev. W. S. SkinnerUnion 7:30
YMCA, CWCA,Rev. W. H. SmithUnion 7:30‘
Dormitories
Beta Sigma Rho, Phi Kappa, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Theta Xi, 
Pi Kappa Alpha, Canterbury Club, Baptist Student Group, and 
Lutheran Students’ Association have not announced the speakers for 
their meetings.
Council Overrides Objections, 
Approves Form Constitution
Is there room on the Carnegie 
Tech campus for another publica-
Charles B. Walker, assistant 
professor of chemistry, died at 
the West Penn Hospital on Fri­
day, February 20, after a short 
illness. He was 61. Professor 
Walker joined the CIT faculty in 
1920. «
He was born in Danville, Vir­
ginia, and was educated at Vir- 
g i n i a Polytechnical Institute 
where he served as assistant 
commandant for five years. After 
leaving VPI, he worked as chem­
ist for the Kentucky Tobacco 
Products company, and the du 
Pont de Nemours company, and 
as assistant metallurgist with the 
Philadelphia Roll and Machine 
company.
He is survived by a wife and 
four sisters.
Dr. Joseph James
Dr. Joseph Hidy James, Pro­
fessor Emeritus of the depart­
ment of chemistry and chemical 
engineering at CIT, died on Feb­
ruary 12, at the age of 79.
Dr. James will be posthumously 
honored at the annual meeting of 
the American Chemioal Society in 
Chicago, by an award for 50 years 
of continuous service.
Born in Jeffersonville, Ohio in 
1868, Dr. James received his 
bachelor of science degree at 
Buchtel College (now the Uni­
versity of Akron). After holding 
the position of assistant in chem­
istry and instructor in physics at 
Buchtel, he took graduate work 
at Columbia university and was awarded a doctor of philosophy 
degree at the University of Penn­
sylvania in 1899.
Dr. James then served as chief chemist for the Lake Superior 
Power Company of Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario, before becoming 
assistant professor of textile 
chemistry and dyeing at Clemson 
college in 1902.
Three years later, he became 
an assistant professor on the first 
faculty here, shortly thereafter 
being appointed first head of the 
department of chemistry and 
chemical engineering. He re­
mained with that department for 29 years.
Dr. James was the author of a 
laboratory manual: General Chem­
istry For Engineering Students. 
His research was primarily con­
cerned with acetlyene storage and 
the oxidation products of petrol­
eum.
I’AC Sponsors 
Vote Changes
Checkoff Dropped 
To Speed Balloting
I’AC, in its second major poli­
tical move, succeeded in having a 
group of four election changes ac­
cepted by Student Council.
. J. K. O’Hare, independent rep­
resentative on Student Council, 
proposed at the meeting of Janu­
ary 22 that the By-laws be 
changed to eliminate the check­
off list. Under the new system 
students will have only to present 
their registration cards in order 
to vote.
In addition, Robert Shapiro, 
chairman of the elections commit­
tee, accepted two other proposals 
of O’Hare’s by lengthening voting 
hours and by authorizing more 
voting stations. The new hours 
for voting are from 11:15 a. m. to 
1:45 p. m., and balloting will take 
place in Skibo and Machinery hall 
as well as at the usual locations.
I AC has also suggested that APO’s offer to assist in the con­
ducting of elections and the count­
ing of ballots be accepted. Such a 
motion was passed in the same 
meeting.
It was further revealed that 
I’AC has expanded its slate for the 
March 11 election to five men, in­
cluding Jack Anderson, Bob Ful­
ton, J. K. O’Hare, Bill Johns, and 
John Williamson.
Library Gives 
Discount On 
Fine Payments
A system of discounts for cash 
payments of fines on overdue 
books, if the fine is paid at the 
ttime the book is returned, will be 
put into effect this semester in the 
CIT libraries.
The discount will be 50 per cent 
on all fines except for the first 
and second hour on reserve books, 
when the discount will be 10 cents 
per hour. The discount will apply 
to fines on overdue books only and 
will be granted only if paid when 
the books are returned.
The increase in fine rates put 
into effect last year reduced the 
number of overdue books by a 
very large percentage, but a con­
siderable number of fines must 
still be collected at the end of each 
semester. This requires extra 
work by the library staff and the 
registrar’s office and causes delays 
in registering students who have 
failed to pay the fines incurred. It 
is hoped that with this additional 
incentive practically all fines will 
be paid immediately.
If the desired effects are 
achieved without a corresponding 
increase in the number of overdue 
books and the resulting limitations 
on the usefulness of the books to 
the largest possible number of stu­
dents, this policy will be continued 
beyond the new semester.
WANTED
DESK 
SALESMAN
Looking for one livewire 
student to sell our student 
desks to rooming houses, 
fraternities, individuals in Pittsburgh.
—o—
List your qualifications in 
a letter and enclose a letter 
of reference from a faculty 
member. Send to
FREEDMANArfcrafl Engineering 
Corp.
Charlevoix, Mich.
tion?
After posing this question, Stu­
dent Council finally gave its ap­
proval to the constitution of Form 
magazine. At the same meeting 
Independent leader J. K. O’Hare’s 
amendment to the Student Coun­
cil constitution doing away with 
the voting check-off system was 
swept into effect without opposi­
tion.
Dave Mintz opened the stand 
against Form, stating, “There is no 
sense in putting a magazine on 
campus if it will compete with 
others which are already having a 
tough time getting started.”
This determined stand, support­
ed by Jack Ewart and Sema Mos- 
kovitz, spearheaded the opposition 
to the establishment of Form. The 
principal point of contention was 
the scope of Form’s coverage. 
Some of the representatives 
thought that it might overlap the 
fields now covered by other pub­
lications.
Jack Johnson, however, pointed 
out that Council possesses the 
power to curb Form if such action 
ever becomes necessary. With this 
assurance Council overrode the 
objections and carried the motion 
to accept Form’s constitution.
To the expressed amazement of 
its author, J. K. O’Hare, an 
amendment to the Student Coun­
cil by-laws which provides for 
placing serial numbers on all 
election ballots, was approved. 
This action is intended to elimi­
nate the currently utilized check­
off system and allow students to 
vote at any authorized station.
“Money! Money! Who’s got the 
money?” is the phrase which 
might well sum up what happened 
at the quorumless Student Coun­
cil meeting on February 4. Not 
until the latter stages of the meet­*
ing was anyone sure that the gov­
erning body had sufficient funds 
on hand to allocate $200 to ODK 
for the printing of a social rules 
and regulations booklet. After 
further scrutiny of the General 
Reserve Fund, it was found that 
Bruce Murray’s pessimistic de­scription of the fund was in error. 
The $200 was granted.
Another amendment to the 
Council by-laws was passed which* 
compels the Tartan to print, ver­
batim, any material which Stu­
dent Council may see fit.
The budget committee submitted 
and received a favorable vote on 
the budgets of the Soph Hop, Tech 
Debating Society, and Scotch and 
Soda while permission was given 
to the IRC and the Technical to 
transfer past funds for future use.
The staffs of the Technical and 
Form were approved while Thistle 
hall was set aside on May 1 for a 
closed dance to be given by the 
Men’s Dorm Council.
Mr. Shapiro announced that an 
all-school election will be held 
March 11, from 11:15 a. m.-l:45 
p. m., for the purpose of electing 
Student Council members and 
again on March 30 to elect a Spring Carnival Queen.
The following members of the 
Technical staff were awarded 
keys: Milton Perloff, gold jeweled; 
William Carpenter, William 
Cohen, G. Renberg and J. R. Wil­
liams, gold. Mr. Sterret’s activi­
ties scholarship plan was accepted.
After Student Council President 
Marshall announced that action on 
electing class presidents would be 
postponed until the spring semes­
ter, he told the council that he 
would graduate in February and, 
thus being compelled to leave of­
fice, thanked the Council for its 
cooperation. Marshall, in parting, 
described Student Council as the 
“thirty-five most industrious peo­
ple I’ve ever had the pleasure of working with.”
WES PARKER WILL HANSEN
TWO MUSICAL ORGANIZATIONS
to fit your most discriminating taste
We* Parker and hi* orchestra
playing Pittsburgh’s successful affairs
Will J4an*en
and the Society Quintette for your intimate evening
Phone JA 1956 for information, transcriptions, 
and available dàtes.

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 2, 1948
IM Basketball Race 
Close In Both Leagues
After a short mid-semester 
breather, the intra-mural basket­
ball race resumed activities at 
something short of a gallop. Pre­
vacation results show the unde­
feated Beta B’s leading the pack in 
the Long Shot league while the 
PiKA’s top the Set Shot section.
Sigma Nu and AAA are close 
behind the Betas with each show­
ing one loss and four wins. The 
Beta A’s and the DU’s hold sim­
ilar positions in the other division. 
These six teams could well be the 
ones to carry the fight to the play­
offs.
The feature game in the Long 
Shot league this week brings to­
gether the Beta B’s and AAA’s. 
The AAA’s have already beaten 
Sigma Nu and stand a good chance 
to down the Beta B’s and dead­
lock the standings. PiKA, leader 
in the Set Shot league, meets 
Emanon, which sports a 4-2 rec­
ord.
Boivling
After four weeks of inactivity, 
the intramural bowlers took to 
the alleys again on Saturday, Feb­
ruary 28. Despite the lay-off caus­
ed by examinations and vacation, 
competition was keen with only 
three teams being able to blank 
their opponents.
While standings stayed practic­
ally the same in the Strike league, 
the changeable Spare league wit­
nessed another upheaval. SAE 
took two games from Theta Xi to 
change places in the league as TX 
dropped to fifth and SAE came up 
to third. The Beta Sigs tied SAE 
by taking three straight from 
ASCE in the only Spare league 
shutout.
The Unknowns advanced one 
notch by bowling 2 games over 
league leading Split-Emanon. The 
Unknown’s Tumbell’s 226 in the 
first game helped considerably, 
but Stone of the Splits turned in 
a 201 in the third game to assist 
his team materially in avoiding a 
shutout. In the same league the 
Delts No. 1 stayed in second place 
by taking two games from the 
Tau Delts.
ATO, in the Strike league, beat 
the DU’s two games out of three 
to edge that team for third place 
in the only change of previous 
standings. Schier and Larsen 
bowled 206 and 203 respectively 
in the first game.
Citcom kept rolling by blank­
ing the Dorm Combine. Defarrari 
continued to dent the wood by 
dropping 211 pins in the third. 
Phi Kappa recorded the third 
shuotout when they took Kap­
pa Sigma 3 to 0. Delt No. 2 beat 
the Betas 2 out of 3 to remain 
just behind that team in the 
standings.
Since only two weeks remain 
in the current season, the coming
Saturday afternoon promises keen 
bowling.
STANDINGS 
Strike | SpareCitcom 17 1| S-E 13 5SN No. 1 14 4| Delts No. 1 14 7
ATO 13 8jSAE 10 8
DU 11 7| Beta Sig 10 8Betas 10 8|TX 11 10Delts No. 2 8 10|Tau Delts 9 9
Phi Kaps 6 121 Unknowns 8 10DC . 3 151 ASCE 6 12
KS 2 19|SN No. 2 3 15
Table Tennis
The Unknowns proved to be the 
cream of the crop in the team ta­
ble tennis competition as they 
defeated the TX’s, 3-2 in the 
play-off.
After being undefeated in their 
section, the TX squad gained the 
right to meet the Unknowns, who 
had also taken six straight meets 
in their league. Three single 
matches and a doubles battle were 
arranged to decide the school championship.
The best match of the tourney 
involved the Unknowns’ Munzell 
and Kaelin of the TX’s. After los­
ing the first two games by 6-21 
and 13-21, Kaelin extended Mun­
zell to the full count before win­
ning 22-20. After that Kaelin 
controlled the play as he took the 
next two games by 21-13 and 21- 
16 scores for the TX’s only win.
Holmes and Ananoth trounced 
the TX’s Lee and Denne to win 
going away in the doubles match. 
Lyman and Quermann collected 
the Unknowns’ other points by 
defeating Lee and Zukasky, re­
spectively, in the other single con­
tests.
Skibo Report
[Continued from page 1] 
ommendations:
1. The food administrator 
should be empowered to under­
take any project which would 
effect more efficient operation 
of campus eating establishments. 
This should include complete con­
trol over cafeteria personnel.
2. A permanent student-facuity 
committee (exclusive of the stu­
dent conference committee) should 
be set up to make further inves­
tigation and act as a permanent 
advisory board to the food admin­
istrator.
The cost of meals has to be suf­
ficient to cover light, heat, depre­
ciation, maintenance, etc., these 
costs being greater in a separate 
building, such as Skibo, than they 
would be if the cafeteria were part 
of another building. Furthermore, 
ineffective storeroom control and 
poor arrangement of facilities con­
tribute to inefficient operation. The 
building was originally a “tem­
porary” laboratory during World 
War I, which accounts for the poor 
adaptability to its present use.
In conclusion, we would like to 
say that Miss White has been most
Varsity Tryouts
Students interested in trying 
out for the Varsity spring 
sports — Track, Tennis, and 
Golf, either as players or man­
agers, are requested to meet at 
the Athletic office, room 102 
Gym, on Thursday, March 11, 
at 4:30 p. m.
All freshmen are eligible for 
varsity competition during the 
school year of 1947-48.
Tartans Lose 
On Road Trip
Theodore Maintains 
High Scoring Average
The scoring ability of Mike The­
odore was the only bright spot of 
a disasterous road trip that saw 
the Tartan cagers drop three de­
cisions in as many days. The ever- 
popular team captain collected 53 
points in three games to boost his 
season’s total to 216 points for a 
13.5 point per game average.
The snappy, smooth working 
combination of Buffalo State 
Teachers upset the Tartan apple 
cart with a 67-55 defeat. The Bi- 
sons’ MacNeil caged 15 points 
while Doyle, Riccio, and Schaeffer 
each added to the Teachers’ total.
At Cleveland, Case edged the 
Skibos by a 64-58 count as New- 
dome gathered 15 points. Making 
use of smooth blocking techniques, 
the Engineers were able to slip 
their hotshots through the Carne­
gie defense for easy shots under 
the hoop.
The tired Tartans then moved 
on to Oberlin for a Saturday even­
ing encounter. Addison proved 
uncanny as he added 26 points to 
the Ohioans’ scoring to give them 
a 64-56 victory.
The Carnegie cagers operated 
without the services of Len Bian- 
chi, who was unable to make the 
trip. His steady defensive play 
could have been used to halt the 
efforts of the likes of Addison. 
Len’s absence was further accen­
tuated when 3 first-line men were 
lost in each of the 3 games via the 
personal foul route, and less ex­
perienced reserves had to be sub­
stituted.
The Tartans were in all the 
games at all times and might have 
won any or all with a few breaks. 
The greatest score differential at 
half time during any game was 3 
points, but the long trip and the 
personal fouls caused the Skibo’s 
downfall in the final periods.
cooperative in helping with the in­
vestigation. Unfortunately, lim­
ited space does not permit a com­
plete detailed report, but we feel 
confident that existing conditions 
can be improved if the proper 
steps are taken by school officials.
Skibo Five Defeated 
In Last Home Contest
Before a large crowd in Skibo gym, the Carnegie Tech basket- 
eers closed their home season Saturday night, February 28 by ab­
sorbing a 57-43 defeat at the hands of Allegheny.
The Tartans were unable to cope with their opponents’ fast 
breaks and alert defense. Repeatedly cutting into the basket for un­
molested shots, the Gators raced off to a 11-2 lead before Jack 
Riehl scored the Plaid’s first field goal.
Miller, Allegheny hook shot 
stylist, emerged with high scoring 
honors with 19 points, but the 
game’s real star was lanky Dick 
Kahl, Methodist guard. Kahl held 
Mike Theodore scoreless from the 
field until midway in the third 
quarter.
Allegheny had complete control 
of both backboards in the first 
half and easily assumed a 29-14 
advantage at half time. After the 
Gators increased their lead to 21 
points at the start of the second 
half, the Tartans, unable to or­ganize, began throwing despera­
tion passes in an attempt to move 
the ball into scoring position.
Captain Theodore presented 
Trainer Bert Munhall with a ra­
dio as a farewell gift from the 
players and managers. It was 
Bert’s last game at home before 
retiring this spring after 34 years 
of service.
CIT Cagers 
End Season 
This Week
Showing an unimpressive rec­
ord of only four wins in 17 starts, 
the Carnegie Tech basketball 
quintet will close its season on the 
road this week. The Tartans meet 
Grove City on Wednesday and 
travel to New Wilmington on Sat­
urday for a game with Westmin­
ster.
Grove City, with seven wins 
and nine setbacks, fell prey to the 
Plaid in the opening game of the 
season. Since that 54-41 shellack­
ing the Grovers have improved 
considerably and have been con­
sistently effective on their home 
court. Captain Mike Bish, who 
scored 15 points in the first meet­
ing of the two teams, continues to 
lead the Grovers in scoring, close­
ly followed by Bob Ungren.
Westminster will reign heavy 
favorites to repeat their early sea­
son victory over the Skibos. Fail­
ing to hit the stride which made 
them one of the district powers 
last season, the Titans have never­
theless been able to post 13 wins 
against nine defeats. Bob Wagner, 
Don McCullough and Chet Dem- 
kinski are leading the Titans’ scor­
ing parade. The “band box” floor 
at New Wilmington will be a de­
cided disadvantage for the Tar­
tans, who are more at home on a 
large court.
ROTCDefeated 
By Women’s 
Rifle Team
The members of the women’s 
rifle team lived up to the form of 
Annie Oakley last week when 
they defeated the ROTC team by a 1465 to 1462 score in a practice 
match. Joann Montgomery led the 
girls with 299 out of a possible 
300 score.
During the course of the meet, 
each squad member fired three 
prone targets, and the top five 
scores counted as a team total. 
Close behind Miss Montgomery 
were Vera Gillespie, Marianne 
Brozier, Betty Nairn, and Joann 
Daubenspeck who are also mem­
bers of the freshman class. Bruce 
Schmid, John Venable, Harry Os- 
terman, Earl Bishop, and Charles 
Sayer were the top scorers for the 
men in khaki.
The varsity team will start out 
the new semester by engaging in 
intra-city match with Pitt’s var­
sity and Duquesne’s ROTC firers 
at 4:30 p. m., March 4, at the Car­
negie Tech range. Firing will be 
from the shoulder position only.
Council Notice
There will be a Student 
Council meeting in Carnegie 
Union on Wednesday, March 
3rd, at 4:30 p. m.
I THE PLACE FOR-
Slide Rules 
Drafting Sets
Zipper Cases 
College Seal Stationery 
School Supplies
STUDENT BOOK EXCHANGE
PITTSBURGH a, VA.
V ta 
Studenti
COLLEGE
TEXTBOOKS
NEW
USED
SCHOOL
SUPPLIES
"Tartan" Pencils
Fraternity Decals
College Outlines
Fountain Pens
Leather Notebooks

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MAECH 2, 1948THE CARNEGIE TARTAN5
Sports Scope
New Organization Would Help 
Local Schools Select Officials
By William
The small colleges of the Tri- 
State district met last week to 
discuss the formation of a local, 
closely-knit organization that 
would permit them to effect a 
working agreement with the East­
ern College Athletic Conference, 
headed by Asa Bushnell, for the 
express purpose of having that 
group name arbiters for local 
football contests. Clarence (Bud­
dy) Overend of Carnegie Tech 
was selected as temporary chair­
man of the interested group 
which has been tentatively call­
ed the Tri-State Football Asso­
ciation.
A great deal of confusion has 
arisen concerning the purpose of 
this group, but it can easily be 
explained. For many years the 
problem annually plaguing ath­
letic directors has been that of 
agreeing on the officials to work 
their-football games. The general 
procedure has been for the home 
school to send a list of officials 
to the visiting school, from which 
it could select acceptable arbit­
ers in advance of the season. 
Many schools have had trouble 
agreeing when one school refuses 
to accept one or more of the of­
ficials.
Mr. Bushnell’s group, which 
serves 22 different eastern leagues, 
Has a reputation for assigning 
competent officials. Each arbiter 
specializes in one position only, 
such as referee or field judge, 
and he never serves in any other 
capacity. Five officials are provid­
ed for each contest, each of whom 
rates the performances of the oth­
er officials in a report to the 
commissioner.
Since the officials are all under 
one head, their activities can be coordinated and a training pro­
gram provided. Thus the interpre­
tations of the rules are the same 
wherever the ECAC operates. 
Such an arrangement is advan­
tageous in that every team knows, 
for example, that the rules and 
interpretations which are opera­
tive in Cleveland are also in ef­
fect in Pittsburgh. Membership 
in such a group would not only 
give Carnegie Tech’s gridders a 
feeling of confidence in the of­
ficials working their games but 
would also aid in insuring the 
spectators a good show.
The basketball officials in this 
district have also come in for 
much criticism lately, but the 
jeers are generally unjustified.
Schnitgen
My opinion is that although the 
honesty and integrity of these 
men is above approach, the abil­
ity of many of them is open to 
serious doubt.
The recent Carnegie Teeh-Pitt 
games were examples of their 
l&ck of finesse. During the first 
half of each of the games the 
playing was hard and brutal and 
the whistle-happy referees detect­
ed numerous fouls. However, as 
the game progressed, even though 
the contact became much closer, 
the officials seemed to get tired 
of blowing their whistles and 
permitted the game to approach 
the donnybrook stage.
During the course of the sea­
son we observed many officials, 
yet no two interpreted the rules 
in the same way. The local as­
sociation which assigns these men 
has tried to overcome this dif­
ficulty through clinics but the 
organization seems too weak to ef­
fect a permanent cure.
It seems to me that we would 
stand tq benefit greatly through 
affiliation with such an organiza­
tion as ECAC. The benefits it 
provides in football should also 
be furnished to the schools of this 
district in basketball. I am sure 
both the players and the specta­
tors would welcome the improve­
ments which such organizations 
could offer.
Right Face!
[Continued, from page 2]
I believe that a term paper is a 
much better measure of a stu­
dent’s comprehension of a survey 
type course than is a two or three 
hour final exam. Therefore, the 
requirement of devoting a major 
portion of the semester’s work to 
a term paper should be followed 
by the elimination of final exami­
nations in these courses. In order 
to adequately do the term paper 
job most of the time allocated to 
the course outside of recitation 
must be devoted to research.
For my part I’d like to do some­
thing original, of a non-descrip- 
tive type, but it looks like I’ll have 
to spend most of my time—bicycle 
pump in hand—blowing it up to 
proper and acceptable length.
SUGGESTED By 
KENNETH E.H0D6P 
RBNSStLA€R POLY. IN5T.
“I also installed tasting equipment so he could enjoy Dentyne Chewing Gum!M /
“Wire me for sound, and I’ll tell the world—
Dentyne’» delicious! With each mechanical munch and muscle, I really enjoy Dentyne’« refreshing, long-lasting flavor! Dentyne is keen chewing gum! Help« keep teetlr white, smiles bright 1’*V Dentyne Gum—Made Only By Adam«^-------------- -
Swimmers 
Close Season 
In Dual Meet
Carnegie Tech’s swimmers will 
close their season this week by 
entertaining Allegheny and West­
minster in dual meets in the Tar­
tan pool. In their most recent 
competition the Tartan mermen 
placed third in the Penn-Ohio 
championships held in the CIT 
pool on Saturday, February 28, 
and tied Grove City in a meet on 
Thursday, February 26.
Westminster’s strength will 
probably be too much for the 
Plaid swimmers in the meet to­
morrow, but they should have a 
much easier time with Allegheny 
on Saturday, although this meet, 
since the teams are evenly match­
ed, promises to be one of the best of the season.
The meet at Grove City might 
have gone to the Tartans had they 
not had the disadvantage of a 
poor start in the 100 yard free­
style. Although the start was ques­
tioned, it was allowed and the 
Grover’s man was enabled to eke 
out a win over Carnegie’s Gene 
Sapper and gain what proved to 
be the tying points.
The Skibo’s Robin Molny scored 
a triple win as he swam to firsts 
in not only the 220 and 440 yard 
freestyle events but also in the 
150 yard backstroke. Their eighth 
straight win was posted by the 
Tartan medley relay team of 
Schroeder, Luckey, and Sapper, 
and Bill Zoller won the 220 yard 
breaststroke.
CIT third In 
Major Contest
Placing men in every event ex­
cept the breaststroke and diving, 
the Westminster swimming team 
swept the Penn-Ohio Champion­
ships Saturday with a nineteen 
point margin over Slippery Rock. 
The Carnegie Tech swimmers 
placed third.
Although several records were 
broken the standout performance 
of the afternoon went to Car­
negie Tech’s record breaking med­
ley relay team composed of Molny, 
Luckey and Sapper as they eclips­
ed the meet record of 3:18.2 and 
the school record of 3:19.5 with 
the time of 3:15.9. Holt of West­
minster broke his last year’s 150 
yard backstroke mark in the time 
of 1:48.9.
Dave Luckey and Bill Fergu­
son of the Tartans continued their 
breaststroke supremacy by swim­
ming to first and second in their 
event. Ferguson’s last lap spurt 
had the crowd on its feet as they 
watched him edge Baum of Alle- 
heny.
Westminster 56 Allegheny 32
Slippery Rock 37 Edinboro 29
Carnegie Tech 34 W & J 0
EXPERT REPAIRS
RADIOS, PHONOGRAPHS, APPLIANCES
Sales and Service
LEWIS RADIO 
ELECTRIC CO.
1123 OAKLAND AVE. MA. 4211
Bring Your Radio Problems 
To Us
22 TEARS EXPERIENCE
At Your Service
Breaststroke Records 
Fall To Dave Luckey
It’s been a long time since anyone as fast as Dave Luckey 
has churned the water in the Skibo pool. As a matter of fact, Dave is 
the fastest breast-stroker Carnegie Tech has ever had.
His time for the 200 yard breaststroke in a meet at Slippery 
Rock State Teachers college last year established a new school record
of 2:35.0 in the event.
After he had gone undefeated
Dave Luckey
Library Adds 
New Features
»
Microfilm Subscription, 
OSRD Reports On File
The main Carnegie library has 
announced the addition of two 
new features which are available 
to students. These include a mic­
rofilm subscription to the New 
York Times, and a file of the re­
ports of the Office of Scientific 
Research and Development.
The microfilm subscription as­
sures Carnegie Tech of all the 
future issues of the Times; back 
files of most of 1947 have been 
secured. The microfilm reader and 
the New York Times Index are 
both open to students during the 
main library’s regular hours.
The reports of the OSRD con­cern carried on during the war 
at such places as the Radiation, 
Radio Research, and the Alle­
gheny Ballistics laboratories. The 
findings of such groups as the Ap­
plied Mathematics Panel, and the 
War Metallurgy Division are rep­
resented in these reports. The 
initial shipment consisted of about 
200 items and will be housed in 
the government documents sec­tion of the main library.
Employment
All students who want sum­
mer employment should stop 
in the Dean’s office to fill out 
applications. The Dean’s office 
is working with the Bureau of 
Placements to get summer 
work for these students. Ap­
plications must be filed before 
March 15th. •
TECH BARBER 
SHOP
Time For That Haircut 
Corner Craig and Forbes
I <S>*V*gPYKj" «¦CTKAWP
VAN DYKE HI-DENSITY LEADS
for Greater Opacity
There's a vast difference in drawing pencil leads. Hae 
HI-DENSITY Microtomic »VAN DYKE "is made of 
pure crystalline graphite in flake form - it’s finer, more 
compact, smoother and freer from all grit and impuritiea.
EBEMARV FABER
Bound lead* from 9H to 7B.
and scored the highest number of 
points during last season’s com­
petition, L u c k e y ’ s teammates 
elected him captain for this year. 
He has filled the position well by 
co-operating in every way with 
coach Claude Sofield and the 
squad.
This year Dave has become an 
even more important cog in the 
swimming wheel by being the 
stabilizing influence for the med­
ley relay. It has almost reached 
the point where opposing coaches 
forfeit the first place points when 
they learn that Luckey is swim­
ming in the medley or breast­
stroke.
The Tartan ace got his swim­
ming start at Connellsville high, 
which produced Johnny Lujack. 
It was at Connellsville that he 
established the district record in 
the WPIAL breaststroke event and 
later splashed to victory in the 
State meet. Not satisfied to rest 
with these laurels, Luckey is al­
ways pressing himself to better 
performances in practice and com­
petition, and has never been 
known to let down, no matter how 
far he is ahead.
Dave is a junior in the physics 
department and boasts a neat 3.6 
factor, but he nevertheless finds 
time to practice his swimming.
Chistl thaped lead* with th$jamt HI- NSITY quality availmhU in •*£
Students Win 
AIME Prizes
Cash prizes of $100 for winning 
essays in the American Institute 
of Metallurgical Engineers year­
ly technical essay contest have 
been won by a Carnegie Tech 
student and a CIT alumnus.
Jack Edgar, one of the win­
ners is a night school student in 
the department of metallurgical 
engineering and an employee of 
the Aluminum company of Amer­
ica Research laboratories in New 
Kensington, Pa. His winning pa- 
pare was on “The Solid Solubility 
of Iron in Aluminum.”
The other winner was Crawford 
Murton, a June 1947 graduate in 
the department of metallurgy, now 
a control metallurgist at Wiscon­
sin Steel company, Chicago, Illi­
nois. His subject was “The Ef­
fect of Oxide Structure on the 
Rate of Pickling of Low Carbon 
Steel.”
Each year the AIME awards 
three such $100 prizes to under­
graduate students in the United 
States for the best technical pa­
pers of 2000 to 4000 words, writ­
ten entirely by the student, on 
some subject involving mining or 
metallurgy. Carnegie Tech met­
allurgy students have been fre­
quent winners in these annual contests.
Prizes were officially awarded 
to the winners at the All-Insti­
tute Luncheon, Monday, Febru­ary 16, during the annual AIME 
winter meeting in New York City.
WCIT Engineers
WCIT urgently needs engi­
neers for morning, afternoon, 
and evening programs. Anyone 
interested is asked to report to 
the station in the Fine Arts 
building at 4:30 p. m. on Thurs­
day, March 4.
$500 TO $1000 EARNINGS
For capable freshman er sophomore In sparetime sales work; training pro* vlded, Good references required: no 
Invsstmsnt. Ons msn will bs ehossa. Writ«, ststlaf qualifications, to Mrv. 
ies Crystal Company, M Lafayette Psrkwsy, Rochester 10, Now Tork.

---------------------------------------------------

6\. \THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 2, 1948
.________ 9Fine Arts Students 
Dispossess Spirits
Even ghosts are affected by the housing shortage.
The Schenley spirit colony has been dispossessed. Their Forbes 
street rendezvous, across from Jake & Lenny Woodlawn’s Phar­
macy, now houses some twenty-odd Fine Arts students.
Short weeks ago only the slap of shutters and eerie whistling 
of wind through abandoned corridors disturbed the surrounding 
atmosphere. That quietude has been replaced by a student dormitory.
Strains of Shostakovich and*
Grieg echoing through oak-pan­
eled halls, the redolent vapors of 
steaming coffee pots, and the 
stilted Victorian grandeur of 
marble fire-places blend to be­
come the atmosphere of the “Cas­
tle.”
Organizer of the project Dick 
Bacharach led his flock into their 
newly acquired lodging early in 
November. Rooms, barren of fur­
niture and naked in their neglect, 
have been refurnished on a com­
munal basis.
Adequate space for comforta­
ble living is afforded by the twen­
ty rooms and seven baths. Reno­
vating basement rooms into a 
poolroom and bar is planned 
when necessary funds have been 
accumulated. Conversion of the first floor library into a -study 
hall gives evidence that the pol­
icy of improvement is function- 
ing. •
Frank Lindsay, like Bacharach 
a freshman dramat, acts as busi­
ness manager of the “Castle.” He 
handles the funds and supervises 
maintenance of the house.
Some time ago, the displaced 
phantoms began a campaign of 
protest against the invasion of 
their habitat. Footsteps in the 
lower hallway — halting, stum­
bling footsteps—promoted inves­
tigations by one of the more res­
olute inmates. He was rewarded 
by nothing more than a fleeting 
glimpse of something or other 
rocketing up the steps.
Perhaps displacement of the six 
remaining spectres by students 
will discourage the whole colony 
and put an end to mysterious 
flickerings of light, footsteps, and 
other evidences of continued hos­
tility.
Dr. Schwob 
Resigns From 
CIT Faculty
Dr. Claude R. Schwob has re­
signed as assistant professor of 
chemistry because of ill health.
Dr. Schwob will spend several 
months in California in an attempt 
to overcome his present condition. 
After recuperating, he will head 
the chemistry division of the 
Navy’s radiation laboratory at San 
Francisco.
Prior to his resignation, he had 
been approved for the position of 
associate professor of chemistry. 
Dr. Schwob joined the faculty in 
1945.
Born in New York, he received 
his secondary education in France. 
After receiving his doctor’s de­
gree from Fordham University in 
1933, he taught chemistry at St. 
Peter’s College for ten years. In 
1943 he resigned that position and 
enlisted in the army reserve.
In 1944 he taught at CIT under 
the ASTP. Later that year he 
worked on the Manhattan project 
at the University of Chicago, be­
coming assistant chief of the ana­
lytical section there under Dr. 
David McKinney.
Conference Comm•
[Continued from page 1] 
gineering schools, individual cur­
ricula only are accredited, and all 
of ours are.”
“State laws require registration 
of engineers. Either the states or 
the professional societies were go­
ing to do it. The societies did it 
'and all of the states accept it. A 
total of 133 U. S. colleges now 
have at least one engineering cur­
riculum accredited.”
Term papers were brought be­
fore the committee when a mem­
ber made the statement that sen­
ior engineers feel that not only 
are they already sufficiently bur­
dened with work, but that the 
writing of a long term paper 
would be of little value to them 
as engineers.
The President replied that he 
was firmly convinced of the need 
for an extensive exercise in “the 
organization and presentation of 
a reasonably complex idea in in­
telligible language,” and called 
whatever issue might be raised 
“just a problem in organization.” 
“The question of the technical 
relationship of these papers is 
not important,” he said. “Tech­
nical problems don’t work out 
this way. They go from point to 
point and there is usually no oth­
er way to do it.”
YMCA Plans 
Study Group
Political Effectiveness 
Subject of Discussions
Recognizing a general unrest in 
the campus community concerning 
difficult issues which must be de­
cided by the student body, the 
Carnegie Tech Christian Associa­
tion is beginning a study Commis­
sion on Political Effectiveness 
open to every enrolled student on 
campus who has concern about 
student governmental action.
Since the question of member­
ship in the National Student As­
sociation has been uppermost in 
many people’s minds, the commis­
sion will first strive to understand 
more thoroughly the nature of this 
problem through honest, objective, 
and unbiased study. The commis­
sion has only one purpose—that of 
“bull session” discussion and study 
of campus problems through a 
Christian analysis of their nature.
The first meeting will be held at 
4:30 p. m. Monday, March 8, in 
the small room in Skibo.
Admitting that “it’s hard and 
tough,” he disclaimed knowledge 
of “any other way to go about it. 
The Provost’s plan involves just what I am talking about.”
Red Cross 
Begins Drive
The annual Red Cross drive is 
now under way on the campus 
and will continue through March 
15th. The goal for this year is 
$1600 from the faculty, adminis­
tration and maintenance person­
nel, and students.
The drive is being conducted by 
the Cwens, who will have a ta­
ble in each building of Skibo. 
Since there will be no classroom 
solicitation, each student is urged 
to go to Skibo to make his con­tribution.
IMERO FIORENTINO
Lost brown wallet at Beaux 
Arts Ball. Contains Important 
Papers.
Liberal Reward—SC. 4153
I’ll be
up there soon!
Up where the ceiling’s unlimited and the 
horizon’s as wide as the world! Up where there’s- 
freedom and adventure — and a man can dare to do 
what no man’s done before!
You’re on your way up there when you join the 
Aviation Cadets. After a year’s pilot training, it’s 
silver wings for you —and a commission as Second 
Lieutenant in the U. S. Air Force Reserve.
You are eligible if you’re single, between 20 and 
26V2, and have completed at least half the require­
ments for a degree from an accredited college or 
university (or can pass an equivalent qualifying 
examination).
You’ll fly the very best planes during your 12 
months of pilot training. Then, after graduation, 
you’ll pilot jet fighte& and bombers. And you’ll get 
a starting salary of $336 a month. During your three 
years on active duty you’ll be given a chance to win 
a commission in the Regular Air Force.
This is a priceless opportunity for alert young 
men with the urge to carve their future in American 
aviation. Ask for details at your U. S. Army and U. S. 
Air Force Recruiting Station. Or, write to Head­
quarters, U. S. Air Force, Attention: Aviation Cadet 
Section, Washington 25, D. C.
U. 1 ARMY AND U. S. AIR FORCE RECRUITING SERVICE

---------------------------------------------------

mm
How many operators will 
we need NEXT YEAR?
This is but one of the many questions telephone 
men are called upon to answer.
Part of their work has always been to anticipate 
demands for personnel ... to determine what 
additional equipment must be provided, what new 
construction will be necessary to handle the con­
stantly increasing demands for service.
Careful planning in every phase of telephone 
work requires the services of many qualified men. 
For them, this growing business offers the oppor­
tunity for active, interesting careers.
There’s a future in telephony.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
3 Hour Dry Cleaning 
Raincoats Showerproofed
Quick Laundry Service
CAMPUS CLEANERS
4609 Forbes St.MUseum 1288
WINS POPULARITY CONTEST
NO, the man in this picture ia not upside down I You must 
be reading this standing on your head. Little wonder you 
can’t pass the Finger-Nail Test. Better straighten up and 
streak down to the comer drug store for a bottle or tube of 
Wildroot Cream-Qil Hair Tonic. Just a spot of Wildroot 
Cream-Oil grooms your hair neatly and naturally—gives it 
that neat, well-groomed “college” man look. Relieves annoy­
ing dryness and removes loose, ugly dandruff . . . It’s non­
alcoholic, so don’t try drinking it. Remember, however, it 
contains soothing Lanolin. Get Wildroot Cream-Oil hair 
tonic today and see for yourself why it’s ‘ ‘again and again 
the choice of men who put good grooming first.” For gen­
erous trial supply free, send this ad with 
your name and address to Wildroot Co.,
Inc., Dept. CD, Buffalo 11, N. Y.
TUESDAY, MARCH 2, 1948 THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
Little Theater Reopens With 
Story Of A Vagabond’s Miracle
Drama activities in the Little Theatre will be resumed for the 
spring semester with “The Juggler,” an original play by student play­
wright Russell Graves. “The Juggler” will open on Saturday, March 
6, and run for seven evening performances and a Friday matinee, 
closing with the final curtain on Saturday, March 13.
Mr. Graves, a senior known to the drama department as Rusty, 
has used Anatole France’s “The Juggler and Our Lady” as the 
basis of his play. “The Juggler*
and Our Lady” is familiar as a 
traditional Christmas narrative 
about a vagabond juggler named 
Barnaby, who seeks food and shel­
ter at a monastery, where in 
gratitude he performs before the 
statue of the Virgin Mary. Mir­
aculously the Virgin’s hand 
reaches out to bless Barnaby.
In his prologue Graves has 
adapted the story into his play, 
but in the latter acts he centers 
the play on the effect of the in­
cident on the brothers of the 
monastic order, more particularly 
on Brother Jacques, who wit­nessed the miracle.
Graves wrote “The Juggler” in 
1946 while attending Dartmouth 
university on a playwright fel­
lowship. Besides “The Juggler,” 
he has written twelve other full 
length plays that were produced 
by various group and community
theatres.
Earlier this month members of 
the cast visited a monastic order 
of the Episcopalian church at St. 
Barnabas Home in Gibson, Pa. They were welcomed by Brother 
Superior Hans, who introduced 
them to the various activities of the monastery in an effort to help 
them in executing their eccles­
iastical characters.
Principal members of the cast 
includes: as , Barnaby, Willard
Hines and Wes Kenney; as Broth­
er Jacques,‘Lester Rosenberg and 
James Harkey; as Brother Am­
brose, Vincent O’Brien and Jo­seph Schlafman; and Stark 
Drischell and Burton Pollock as 
Brother Jon.
Dr. McCalmon of the depart­
ment is directing the production 
and student George Corrin has 
designed the settings.
WCIT Broadcasts 
Will Feature New 
Record Releases
Resuming operations on March 
8, station WCIT will feature new 
releases of several major record 
companies on a series of nightly 
“disc jockey” broadcasts.
Patterned after the Thursday 
night show, “Capitol Presents,” 
releases of London, Musicraft, 
Victor, and Mercury will be 
broadcast under the supervision 
of Robert Crago, who is in charge 
of record procurement. Bulletin 
boards throughout the school will 
announce the new releases to be 
played each night, and will also 
announce the week’s program for 
“Music Through the Ages.”
One of the most promising con­
tacts WCIT has made is with the 
London Record company. First 
noticed by an American audience 
for its recording of “Now Is the 
Hour,” sung by Gracie Fields, the 
company is now a source of enter­
taining hit records. Some of the 
recent releases to be played on 
the Monday night program are 
“Swing Low, Sweet Clarinet,” 
“But Beautiful,” and “You Don’t 
Have to Know the Language,” 
made by some of the top Eng­
lish artists.
Jimmy Stewart Picks 
Thistle Beauty Queens
Identity Of The Queen To Be 
Withheld Until Thistle Appears
Scholarships
Tri-Delt General Scholar­
ships are again available to 
women students. Applicants 
. may or may not be sorority members. Further details may 
be secured from Dean Dickin­
son’s office.
Applications for all other up- 
perclass scholarships awards 
will not be called for before 
April 1.
“It has been a pretty hard de­
cision to make, for all the girls 
are charming, but I have finally 
selected the following which are 
my choices for the Thistle Queen 
and six members of her court,” 
said James Stewart, the movie 
star, in a letter to Dorothy Kane 
of the Thistle staff.
The Thistle Queen and her court 
of six include Jane Dowd, Joan 
Fluke, Estelle Sherry, Renee 
Orkin, Helen Thunhurst, Natalie 
Williams, and Jean Witherow. The 
identity of the Thistle Queen will 
be concealed until the time of the 
yearbook’s distribution.
James Stewart selected these 
winners from photographs sub­
mitted by the sororities and Cit- 
com Clan. They were judged only 
on photogenic appeal.
In choosing a famous person to 
judge the candidates, the Thistle 
was following a tradition which 
has been in effect for many years. 
In the past Vaughn Monroe and Robert Cummings, both of whom 
attended Carnegie Tech, have se­
lected the Thistle Queens.
Mr. Stewart concluded his let­
ter with the following, “It was a 
difficult decision to make. How­
ever, I can’t think of a pleasanter 
way of spending time than making 
up one’s mind on such a fascinat­
ing subject.”

---------------------------------------------------

8THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 2, 1948
Assembly Talks Give 
Rival Palestine Claims
“I am convinced that Zionism is bad first for the Arabs, second 
for the Jews, and third for the peace of the world.”—Dr. Frank 
Hutchison, assistant Minister, Shadyside Presbyterian Church.
“This is a case where the owner of the territory [Palestine] is 
still alive, still has no home of his own. He still has permanent 
right to his land, no matter how many rulers it may have had. A 
robber is still a robber.”—Dr. Benzion Netanyahu, Executive Di-
rector, American division of the for them, conquered the country in
United Zionist-Revisionist party.
Speaking before a Little Theater 
assembly audience on Tuesday, 
January 27, Drs. Hutchison and 
Netanyahu respectively attacked 
and defended the Zionist solution 
to “The Problem of Palestine.”
Dr. Hutchison, who gave the 
first talk, spoke of his visits to the 
Zionist area in Palestine and then 
proceeded to expound the Arab 
case. “I make these charges more 
out of sorrow than out of anger,” 
he said.
The Arab bases for claiming 
sole right to Palestine were given 
as 1300 years of residence in the 
country (“the Jews coming in are 
not easterners coming home, they 
are westerners invading an alien 
land”), and U.N. interference, 
which is attempting to overcrowd 
Palestine beyond its capacity to 
absorb, an interference based on 
“double moral standards.”
“To accede to partition now is to 
invite further partition later. The 
Zionist aim is the whole of Pales­
tine and Trans-Jordan.”
Calling Zionism a spiritual 
movement distorted into a ma­
terial, nationalistic one, Dr. Hutch­
ison stated that Russia’s support 
of the movement is “an attempt to 
force Britain out of the Middle 
East—a threat to the peace of the 
world.”
The Zionist leader based his 
answer to the arguments advanced 
by his predecessor on “two basic 
claims for Palestine: the historic 
claim and the international claim.”
In explaining the former, Dr. 
Netanyahu reviewed some history 
for his audience—how most of the 
Jews were originally driven out of 
Palestine by the Romans over a 
period of fully three centuries, 
how their successors, the Byzan­
tines, required four to five more 
centuries to extinguish Jewish life 
there, * and how the Arabs, ad­
mitted by the Jews in the hope 
that the new invader would 
throw down the Byzantine yoke
RODGERS
DAIRY
Try our
HAMBURGERS
Made with 100% pure beef 
U. S. Government inspected
LARGE MILK SHAKES
Made with pure whole 
milk
RODGER'S
Oairy Stores
3905 FORBES STREET 
Near Boquet
4619 CENTER AVENUE 
Near Craig
5414 WALNUT STREET 
Shadyside
Othor «tore* downtown
the middle of the seventh century, 
gradually transforming it into a 
non-Jewish land.
“The Arabs finally became the 
majority in the 13th century. But 
just because a people become a 
majority, they do not necessarily 
have the right to have the land.”
Dr. Netanyahu recalled the Nazi 
plan to replace the Dutch in Hol­
land with Nazis, and the Moorish 
invasion and subsequent eight 
century occupation of Spain.
“No writer even suggested that 
the Spanish reconquest was im­
moral.
“The original claimant to Pal­
estine is still alive; he has never 
given it up and the land still be­
longs to him. If this be denied, 
then the whole system of interna­
tional morality is negated.”
He pointed out that the Jews, 
overpowered by forces so strong 
that all of Europe was barely able 
to contain them, were never able 
to return to Palestine. “And so 
this movement was of course sub­
limated into the Messianic dream.”
In explaining the international 
claim to Palestine, Dr. Netanyahu 
noted the support of Churchill, 
Wilson, and Smuts “as taken from 
the documentation of history,” the 
preamble of the League of Nations 
which included a promise to re­
constitute the Jewish state in Pal­
estine, and the 1924 Treaty on 
Palestine.
“The Arab position is the out­
growth of British machinations. 
The Jews were given the right to 
Palestine by the League of Na­
tions. All who could come back did come back.
“They came back and built up 
this malarial, swamp infested 
country. Was this just a cruel 
joke, or does an international 
pledge still mean something?”
New Faculty 
Changes Are 
Announced
Two faculty changes have been 
the addition of Dr. Duane C. 
Shaw and the promotion of Dr. 
Charles W. Paape.
The appointment of Dr. Shaw 
of Minburn, Iowa, as assistant 
professor of psychology and ed­
ucation at CIT has been announc­
ed by Dr. B. von Haller Gilmer, 
department head. A University 
of Iowa graduate, Mr. Shaw was 
principal of Sioux City Junior 
High School in 1941 and 1942. 
During World War II, Dr. Shaw 
served as a first lieutenant in 
the Army Air Forces.
Dr. Paape was appointed as­
sistant head of the Department of 
history by action of thé Execu­
tive Committee of the Trustees at a meeting on January 26, 1948. 
His appointment becomes effec­
tive March 1, 1948. Between 1941- 
1945, Dr. Paape was research as-
sistant at the University of Illi­
nois, where he acted as an in­
structor during the 1946-1947 
term. Since his arrival at CIT 
last year, Dr. Paape has been a 
member of the basic course com­
mittee and the committee on 
freshman and sophomore aca­
demic standards.
Bible Group 
Begins Studieso
A Bible study group will com­
mence meetings at the Carnegie 
Union under the supervision *of 
the YMCA and the Lutheran Stu­
dent Group on Sunday, March 7, 
at 7:30 p.m.
Rev. Murtland. Lutheran stu­
dent pastor, will be the teacher 
and leader. These meetings will 
be held each Sunday until Easter. 
All students are invited to attend.
Miss Your Dinner (/f you have fo)
Miss Your Date (¡f you must)
» *
THE NEWEST, MOST THRILLING TALENT 
INCLUDING TOP STARS FROM THE
HUNT IN AMERICA 
COLLEGES...
“PHILIP MORRIS NIGHT
WITH
HORACE HEIDT"
• 'Every Sunday Night Over NBC, —Seaer nVOOeL 
.e41L N oCAR in a search for the great stars of 
tomorrow. Performers from all over the country 
...including the top talent picked from the 
colleges! Music, drama, thrilling entertainment... 
weekly prizes of $250... and to the winner of the 
year— movie and radio contracts, plus a grand 
prize of $5000 in cash! <•
For perfect listening, make a date for 
Sunday night and hear the stars of tomorrow with 
—Seaer nVOOeL ! And for perfect smoking... today, 
tomorrow, always... light up a —Seaer nVOOeLE 
America’s FINEST Cigarette!
Al Stud en sWsco nemNTo
NIGHT OVER NBC...UNTIL THEN
CAUFOR
IUNDAY Niem w— —IP MORRIS

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MARCH 2, 1948THE CARNEGIE TARTAN9
Russell Wright Speaks 
At Next Assembly
Russell Wright, the noted industrial designer, will be the guest 
lecturer at the student assembly at 11:30 a. m., Tuesday, March 16.
Mr. Wright’s position in the industrial design field is well at­
tested by his success and fame as a designer. The Director of In­
dustrial Design of the Museum of Modem Art has termed him “one 
of America’s finest design talents, with an honest and logical ap­
proach to the physical and psychological needs of the people who are
*to make use of his designs.”
Mr. Wright began his career as 
a Princeton law student. He show-
Provost Letter
I Continued from, page 2] 
to obtain a direct mental associa­
tion between the act of using this 
mode of presentation and any por­
tion of his engineering studies.
Any possibilities of such trans­
fer would be further hindered by 
a feeling of reluctance to under­
take and complete the task, and by 
the pervading idea that the entire 
affair is merely an exercise which 
is to be completed with the least 
practicable effort.
If, however, the student were 
to be assigned or to be allowed to 
choose a topic of interest and of 
the prerequisite scope and inde­
terminacy from his own technical 
field, and were the social relations 
faculty to cooperate with the de­
partmental faculties in the devel­
opment of the generalized direc­
tions and methods of attack on 
these problems such as would ac­
complish the original aims of this 
work, active student cooperation 
would assure the success of the 
program.
This cooperation might come 
through a brief series of lectures
Make "BUD" your ARROW 
Headquarters
236 Diamond St.
Across From Donahoes
ATlantic 2964
delivered by members of the social 
relations faculty on the proper ap­
proach to this type of problem. 
These lectures could be given to 
the students either in their own 
departments or as a small segment 
of their regular senior social rela­
tions courses.
Work of this type, with similar 
objectives in mind, is already be­
ing done in several departments 
which offer senior thesis courses. 
These courses are rated as among 
the most valuable and interesting 
in the entire curriculum by many 
faculty members and students, and 
are a directly visible and fully 
workable means of furthering 
one’s professional education.
An expansion of the thesis pro­
gram to include all Engineering 
and Science departments, elimi­
nating the laboratory work where 
it is inadvisable or infeasible, and 
integrating these courses with the 
social relations program in a man­
ner similar to the one suggested 
here would certainly appear to be 
a marriage in keeping with the 
spirit of the recent developments 
in undergraduate education at 
Carnegie Tech.
-------------------------------------------------
Phi Kappa Phi 
Initiates 18 
At Union
Phi Kappa Phi, senior scholas­
tic honorary, held its initiation on 
February 19 in the Union. Fol­lowing the initiation ceremony, a 
coffee hour and reception was held 
for the new members.
The following eighteen students 
were initiated: Charles Dally,
Martin Dorff, George Matthews, 
Robert Franz, Richard Burk, War­
ren Crites, William Carpenter, Ed­
ward Winkler, William Taylor, 
Frank James, Thomas Quermann, 
Joseph Stewart, William Fello, 
Richard Eschenbach, Lawrence 
Schneirov, Charles Duffett, James 
Williams, and Thomas Donaldson.
Any faculty or graduate student 
member of Phi Kappa Phi who 
was not contacted about this ini­
tiation should report to the sec­
retary in I.H. 144C and have his 
name added to the CIT active 
membership list.
Kon-Tiki Head 
Relates Saga
Thor Heyerdahl, leader of the 
Kon-Tiki expedition, composed of 
six Scandinavians who drifted 
4200 miles across the South Pa­
cific from Peru to Polynesia on a 
40 by 50 foot balsa raft, was 
speaker at the Little Theater on 
February 3. Mr. Heyerdahl show­
ed movies of his adventure, ac­
companying the movies with a 
running commentary.
The object of the expedition 
was to prove that the eastern 
archipelagos were settled by na­
tives of South America. By suc­
cessfully sailing the course which 
the natives might have taken in 
a primitive balsa log raft type of 
vessel, the expedition was able to 
confirm its theory. The expedition 
formed the basis for Heyerdahl’s 
doctorate thesis.
AIME To Give 
Essay Awards
The American Institute of Min­
ing & Metallurgical Engineers is 
giving prizes for the best papers 
written on any desired phase of 
metallurgy. The sectional winner 
will receive a framed scroll tell­
ing of his achievement and his 
paper be entered in national com­
petition.
There are three national prizes 
of $100 each. The competition is 
open to any undergraduate stu­
dent in the department of metal­
lurgy. Each paper is to be ac­
companied by a letter signed by 
an appropriate member of the 
staff showing that the entry was 
written by an undergraduate who 
has met the requirements.
The composition must be no less 
than 2000 words nor more than 
4000, and will be judged on sub­
ject matter, manner of presenta­
tion, illustrations, and workman­
ship.
All papers from this section are 
to be sent before June 15, 1948 to 
H. P. Greenwald, Vice Chair­
man, U. S. Bureau of Mines.
ed more of an interest in set de­
signing for the campus play­
house and Triangle club produc­
tions than in the legal profession, 
and soon dropped his law studies 
for theatre set designing. It was 
his need for certain stage fur­
nishings that led Wright to de­
sign and build his own settings; 
this was a great factor in provid­
ing the background and experi­
ence for his future work in indus­
trial design.
He does not adhere to tradition 
and custom in his designing but 
believes instead that there are no 
cut and dried rules for doing any­
thing—especially for living in a 
home.
He has applied this idea to 
his special field, home furnishings, 
and it has enjoyed an amazing 
amount of success. His designs 
are based on good taste, comforta­
ble living, and relaxation, and 
are intended to ease the tempo 
of 20th century life. He stresses informality in everything—enter­
taining, eating, working and play­
ing. Continuing his efforts for 
practical designs, he has publish­
ed ideas on the manufacturing 
and design of home furnishings in 
his book, “The New Informal 
Living.”
Mr. Wright’s successful career is significant in that it was achiev­
ed without the benefit of a full 
college education; rather, it was 
^based on his own original ideas, 
not on precedent and custom. As 
a “home furnishings” designer, 
Mr. Wright brings an obvious 
message to the architect and the 
drama student; as a successful 
man he brings an equally import­
ant message to engineering stu­
dents.____________________ £ 9\
Public Relations 
Gets New Aide *
Miss Laura K. Badollet joined 
the staff of the public relations de­
partment of Carnegie Tech thig 
week. Her chief duty here will be 
to control the production of all of­
ficial CIT publications. Miss Ba­
dollet, a recent graduate of the 
Pennsylvania State college depart­
ment of journalism, was formerly 
a reporter for the Plainfield, N. J., 
Courier-News.
Let's go to
ISALY'S
Milk Shakes 
Big Ice Cream Cones 
Klondikes 
Tasty Lunches
Three Stores in the College District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill
3714 Ferbes Street Oakland
Main Plant: 
oOOU Boulevard of tie Allies
AFTER EXERCISE 
REFRESH YOURSELF
plus lc State Tax
BOTTLED UNDE* AUTHORITY OP THE COCA-COtA COMPANY IY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. OF PA., PITTSBURGH, PA.
© 1948, The Coca-Cola Company
MEN’S VIA!
5872 Forbes St. Squirrel Hill
Open Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday Evenings
ARE YOU
UNAWARE OF UNDERWEAR?
If you’re laughing on the outside 
—dying on the inside (from 
creeping shorts with a cruel center 
seam) you’re not aware of the 
wonders of Arrow underwear!*
Switch to Arrow shorts and relax. 
Arrow shorts (with the patented 
seamless crotch) come in a variety 
of styles with either gripper fast­
eners or buttons and are Sanfor­
ized labeled, guaranteeing less than 
1 % shrinkage. $1.25, $1.50, and 
L.75.
ARROW SHIRTS and TIES
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products
LEONARD’S MENS SHOP
Corner Forbes and Atwood St. Oakland

---------------------------------------------------

10THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 2, 1948
One of the Boys
Picture the typical collegiate youth; the aspiring, ingenious lad; 
and the shrewd man of business. Author of this unusual montage in 
personality is Jack Ewart, senior chemical engineer.
With his honest smile, Jack has all the appearances of the fam­
ous open-faced country lad of those romantic pastorals. Little won­
der that he wins confidence without effort!
Add a substantial frame of somewhat less than six feet artd a 
shock of light brown hair. Add,^ 
too, the evidences of tremendous 
energy, a spirit of fun, and a 
touch of careless abandonment.
That composite is the outward 
appearance of Ewart.
Underneath this facade lie the 
qualities of purposefulness and 
erudition that have won for him 
executive positions in Tau Beta 
Pi and Theta Tau. More recently 
he has been elected to the pres­
idency of Citcom and the business 
managership of “Carnegie Tech­
nical.”
Jack’s participation in activi­
ties is probably best summarized 
by noting his election to ODK, 
while as a mark of his initiative 
in promoting what he believes to 
be right we note his leadership 
of a campus group of the United 
World Federalists.
An ardent hunting and fishing 
enthusiast, Jack takes time out to 
enjoy those favorite sports, sched­
uled classes being no deterrent.
Right now Jack is looking for­
ward to June. His graduation fee 
is all paid up and he is ready for 
the big world outside CIT.
Dramats Star 
At Playhouse
Carnegie Tech dramats Norman 
Keats, Bob Casey, and Elek Hart­
man are featured in the current 
Pittsburgh Playhouse production 
of “A Sound of Hunting,” which 
opened February 13 and will close 
on March 6.
“A Sount Of Hunting” is a war 
play about a squad of American 
troops in Italy which has been 
detailed to destroy a German ma­
chine gun nest which is holding 
up the general advance. Keats, in 
the part of Calcucci, gives a fine 
portrayal of the Brooklyn wise 
guy whose only thoughts are 
“dames,” food, and Brooklyn. 
Keats, incidentally, is a native of 
Brooklyn.
Elek Hartman, as the percy war 
correspondent, and Bob Casey as 
the young doughboy, “Coke,” also 
turn in fine performances.
Jack Ewart
Official Notice
Carnegie Tech’s proposed 
synchro-cyclotron is being 
made possible only through 
grants received from outside 
agencies for the specified pur­
pose of building the cyclotron 
and using it for nuclear re­
search. These grants have been 
made with the understanding 
that they be used for that pur­
pose only. No CIT education 
income will be used for the cy­
clotron project.
STOP! For 
Good Food
Tasty Sandwiches 
To Take Out
CRAIG-FORBES
PHARMACY
4601 Forbes Street
YOURS -a,VA.**8 Genuine PHOTOS
(WALLET SIZE)
of FAMOUS CAPITOL 
RECORDING STARS
JO STAFFORD • STAN KENTON 
JOHNNY MERCER • MARGARET WHITING ^ 
PEGGY LEE • ANDY RUSSELL 
JACK SMITH • GORDON MacRAE
MAIL COUPON «ritk Tei Celts (10c) for postage ui luodliaf t»:
r
I
I
I
I
I
I
L
CAPITOL RECORDS
No. 2391, D«pt. Y, Hollywood 26, Calif.
NAME- 
SIX. 
AOORESS-
.AGE_
CITY_______________
My (avor'rt»
r»cording arti»l ».
.STATE.
Bridge Team 
Plays Round
Carnegie’s bridge team played 
the round-by-mail in the Inter­
collegiate Bridge Tournament on 
Tuesday, February 24. Two pairs 
will be chosen from the 38 col­
leges in the Northeastern Zone to 
participate in national finals in 
Chicago in April.
Members of the team were chos­
en in an elimination tournament 
at the Union February 23. Thir­
teen pairs played in the Mitchel 
movement. George Baldwin and 
Ray Grandy were high, and Rich­
ard Huntoon and Richard Neelley 
were second in the North-South 
pairs.
Paul Zweifel and Ken Garlinger 
were high and Harry Silverman 
and Shirley Seiner were second in 
the East-West pairs. These eight 
formed the team which played-in 
the intercollegiate competition.
Dr. R. F. Mehl 
Appointed to 
Committee
Dr. Robert F. Mehl, head of the 
department of metallurgical en­
gineering and director of the 
metals research laboratory, has 
been appointed a member of the 
committee for the distribution of 
radioisotopes by Mr. David Lil- 
ienthal of the atomic energy com­
mission.
Dr. Mehl will act as a consultant 
in determining distribution of iso­
topes for metallurgical research 
and for use in industry. His new 
duties will require frequent at­
tendance at committee meetings 
in Washington, D. C.
IRC Plans
New Lectures
India Is Subject 
Of Meeting Today
The International Relations 
club will hold its first meeting of 
the new semester on Tuesday, 
March 2. The currently vital topic 
of India will be the subject of 
discussion on this and subsequent 
programs.
The club was formed to enable 
the individual student to develop 
a better knowledge and under­
standing of world affairs, and to 
provide a forum where the stu­
dent can air his own views.
Former speakers have present­
ed their views on such topics as 
Universal Military Training, the 
Russian question, and conditions 
in France and China.
In keeping with past policy, the 
programs of this semester will 
continue to include speakers and films on timely subjects.
SAM BINSTOCK, Jewelers, Inc.
3702 FORBES ST.
Cause,
OAKLAND
/&*-
ft***SS-*-
&
WASHINGTON'S
FAREWELL
ADDRESS4
Here, in our First Presi­dent's own handwriting, is part of the far-sighted speech he delivered to the American people 152 years ago. The spirit of the doctrine still applies. It calls for a firm unity among our people . . . emphasizing, above all, the need for "every citi­zen to take pride in the name of an American.” The original is now aboard the "Freedom Train”— a traveling exhibit of the most significant docu* ments in our history.
-)
f0jO*»*-
fie proud of w/iat you write... 
and the way you write it!
Naturally you’re proud when you own a Parker 
“51”. For this is the world’s most-wanted pen. It glides with satin-smoothness . . . gives new free­
dom to your thoughts and fingers . . . makes 
writing more fun! Whether it’s an exam—a 
theme—a letter, this is the p$n that will al­
ways show you at your best. Ask for the 
“51” in either the regular or new demi-size.
Choice of points. The Parker Pen Com­
pany, Janesville, Wisconsin, U. S. A., 
and Toronto, Canada.
Parker "51
Copyright >048 by The Parker Pen Company

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MARCH 2, 1948- -- - *THE OAKNSaiE TARTAN11
^ THE ** 
CIGARETTE 
THAT SUITS ME 
BEST IS
CAMEL
"fliis l&corcl Goes Wum-Un-
It's JEAN SABLON'S...
"A TVA/E -fe/ HUMMlUG"
(RCA Victor)
I
N ENGLISH or French, his singing is terrific!
His fans range from bobby-soxers to the 
lavender-and-old-lace set.
Why, he even lights his Camels with a Continental 
charm. Takes a leisurely puff and says: "Great!”
Yes, Jean, and millions of smokers agree with 
you about Camels. More people are smoking 
Camels than ever before!
Try Camels! Discover for yourself why, with 
smokers who have tried and compared, Camels 
are the "choice of experience”!
And here’s another great record—
More- people are smobngCAMBS
ihan ever before!
K. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. 
Winaton-Salem, N. C.
¥¦ * THE CARNEGIE PLAID * *
Page Edited by Evening School Students of Carnegie Institute of Technology
German Occupation 
Needed For Peace
Disagreements Of Powers Hinder 
Progress Of Building Democracy
By Anne Shack
The American people paid a great price in both blood and 
treasure to destroy Nazism. To make sure our efforts were not in 
vain, we plan to keep an army of occupation in Germany until a 
lasting peace is guaranteed. This undoubtedly will take a long time, 
but as long as an occupation force is needed, the United States will 
take an active part in that force.
The Potsdam Declaration has a two-fold nature. First, to see 
that Germany never breaks the* 
peace again, and secondly, to see 
that she eventually rejoins the 
community of law-abiding na­
tions.
Many things have been accom­
plished in the two years of our 
occupation in Germany to pre­
serve the peace. She has been dis­
armed to prevent waging another 
war in the near future. The chief 
German war criminals have been 
tried and punished, and the goal 
to complete de-Nazification is 
coming closer. We are reviving 
German economy in hopes of 
building a democracy. Some 
achievement has been made to­
wards this aim, but as a democ­
racy is more a matter of spirit 
than of form, it will be a long 
time before our efforts can eas­
ily be seen. A principal part of 
Germany’s progress is handi­
capped by the disagreements of the Great Powers on how a new 
Germany should be developed.This can only be expected in a 
world which is still badly divided.
Dalziel McKelway Is 
Banquet Toastmaster
Souvenirs And Prizes Arriving 
From Firms In Response To Request
Plans for the Engineers’ Banquet are rapidly materializing and 
the outlook promises to compare with some of the most successful 
affairs of recent years. This year’s toastmaster will be none other 
than Mr. Dalziel McKelway, registrar of evening classes. Mr. Mc­
Kelway has one of the finest collections of jokes in the tri-state 
area. Perhaps this year we shall learn what happened to the moving 
van!!
Response to the more than 300 
letters of solicitation sent to in­
dustrial concerns all over the na­tion has been extremely hearten­
ing. Souvenirs and door prizes are 
arriving daily at the evening 
school office. Yes, the brown bag 
will be filled to the brim this 
year, boys.
Tickets are available in Mr. Mc- 
Kelway’s office and will also be 
handled by members of the Even­
ing Student Council. The admis­
sion price is $3.50 per person.
Summing up the events to date, 
we can say:1. Toastmaster — Mr. Dalzell 
McKelway.2. Entertainment — Peg Lana* 
han.3. “Bocoups” — Souvenirs and 
door prizes.4. Time: 6:30 p. m., April 10, 
1948.5. Place: Hotel Henry Ballroom.
6. Tickets $3.50 per person. Those who have attended pre­
vious banquets have thoroughly 
enjoyed the entertainment pro­
vided by Peg Lanagan and her 
splendid troupe of entertainers.
Sorry gals, again we remind 
you. You are definitely not invit­
ed.
Without a doubt the United 
States has and is playing a ma­
jor role in establishing a peace­
ful and prosperous Germany. In 
this belief the United States is 
pressing toward its goal of de­
veloping a vital German democ­
racy supported by a satisfactory 
economy. Can the Germans learn 
peace? The answer to this ques­
tion can only be found by the un­
folding of events to take place in 
the future.
The Carnegie Plaid
Editor Cecille Zellner 
News Editor 
Anne Shack 
Associate Editors 
George Bogovich Catherine Romanoff
Page edited by Evening School stu­
dents of Carnegie Institute of Technolo­
gy. All views or opinions expressed in 
editorial column are not necessarily en­dorsed by the Editorial Board of the Day School staff.
Staff
Lou Adams Alma Lang
Ray Schwalm Mary CosciaJohn Vranic Elsie CapelliBill Wallace Charlene J. ToheyGeorge Dawes A1 SnowdenFrank Mihelic Jim Flaherty
Pat Schaffer
Vacation is over, registration is 
folding up and we have just about 
settled down to the finer things 
in life again. Well, we can dream, 
can’t we!
Roscoe had a dog one day when 
the cold weather was here. It had 
fleas too! His remedy for the dog’s 
fleas was to keep the dog outside 
in the zero weather to freeze them 
to death. Results were no fleas 
and no dog!
The Faculty were having a 
basketball workout the other 
evening and they looked mighty 
sharp from the side line. Won­
der if they would consider a tus- 
sel with Phi Gamma Pi. Incident- 
ly, Mr. McKelway was high scor­
er with two points to his credit.
Veronica Broskey is sporting a 
new diamond from a certain 
young man these days. Aren’t 
some young men lucky? At least 
one young man is looking for a 
certain girl whose phone number 
he found in the gym during reg­
istration—Girls, see Kaye Hamp­
shire. He’ll see that the info gets 
to the right party. Speaking of 
phone numbers — wonder if the 
young man who had a message to 
call a certain number after regis­
tration ever figured out the ex­
change, as none was left—Wasn’t 
mine.
Council Holds 
Vacation Party
Evening School dance schedul­
ed for February 21 was canceled, 
but between semesters Student 
Council whipped up a little party 
which started all the boys and 
girls suggesting that there be an­
other of this kind.
The affair was held in Margaret 
Morrison recreation room on 
February 28: and although the 
men ordinarily walk into and out 
of M. M. quite gingerly (if at all), 
this time they seemed to be as 
much at ease as if they were at 
home. Why not, with home eco­
nomics atmosphere everywhere?
An evening of cards, games, 
and dancing was topped off by a 
delicious lunch—free. Scads of 
sandwiches satisfied the hungry 
appetites after the vigorous work­
out along with punch and cook-

---------------------------------------------------

'I’VE TRIED THEM ALL, 
CHESTERFIELD IS MY 
FAVORITE CIGARETTE
STAKKING IN A
TRIANGLE PRODUCTION
"SLEEP, MY LOVE" 
RELEASED THRU UNITED ARTISTS
ÎT*arîAER, VNNttRVtUe,TOBACCO f A***"'
Veterans Must 
Get Approval 
For Transfer
Veterans attending school un­
der the provisions of the GI Bill 
cannot expect to continue receiv­
ing tuition and subsistence if 
they transfer to another institu­
tion without prior approval from 
the Veterans Administration, the 
VA announced recently.
Veterans who plan to transfer 
and who still wish to receive edu­
cational benefits must contact 
their appropriate regional office 
or VA training officer to obtain 
approval for the change and in­
sure continuance on the subsis­
tence rolls.
VA emphasized that in most 
cases there is no objection to vet­
erans changing schools. In order 
to prevent delays in payment of 
subsistence and to eliminate un­
necessary paper work, VA must be 
notified in advance of any con­
templated change.
Veterans are not required to pay 
attorneys or agents for represent­
ing them in monetary claims 
against the Veterans Administra­tion. Fees for such services are 
payable only by the agency itself 
and are deducted from the mone­
tary benefit due the veteran at 
the tune the claim is allowed.
Fees are fixed by statute at ten 
dollars for an original claim, and I 
two dollars for a claim to obtain 
increased benefits. Any agency or I 
attorney who charges or attempts I 
to charge any veteran for such 
services is subject to the penal 
provisions of the law, as well as 
loss of his accreditation. !
World War II veterans are in- I 
eligible- for training under the GI 
Bill or Public Law 16 while they I 
are taking training in certain I 
courses financed by other federal 
appropriations, the VA ruled. Vet­
erans must select the Federal pro­
gram under which they prefer to I 
enter certain types of training. I
Among the courses financed by I 
other federal appropriations are: I 
U. S. Public Health training pro- I 
grams, U. S. Maritime training, I 
resident training programs in hos­
pitals and clinics owned or oper- I 
ated by the U. S. Government, and I 
residence training for physicians I 
and dentists in the department of I 
medicine and surgery of the Vet- I 
erans Administration.
VA said the ruling does not I 
eliminate possible concurrent pay- I 
ment of benefits for study in a I 
foreign institution under both the I 
GI Bill and the Fulbright Act. I 
When veterans complete their I 
training under other federally I 
supported programs, they become I 
eligible to continue their studies or I 
take other training under the GI 
Bill or Public Law 16. j
A new VA regulation extends I 
to all Public Law 16 vets the re- I 
duced time training privileges pre- I 
viously limited to two groups of 
disabled trainees. The two groups 
were composed of veterans whose I 
disabilities would never permit I 
full-time training, and those suf­
fering from arrested pulmonary I 
tuberculosis. j
Any seriously disabled veteran I 
unable to devote as many hours 1 
per day to training as the ordinary I 
veteran does may now qualify for I 
full-time training under specified 
conditions. . I
The conditions include an ex­
amination to determine whether a 
veteran can devote full time to 
training. He will carry as many 
hours as the disability permits, in­
creasing them gradually until he 
is carrying a full program. The 
first increase in training hour* 
must be made within three months 
after the veteran enters the re­
duced-time training program*
Those disabled veterans whose 
working program does not in­
crease after three months will be 
withdrawn from training under 
the new program and be consid­
ered for training under the for­
mer reduced-time standards which still prevail.
12
1
HESTERnELD
mi Ü1WAYS MILDER SETTER TASTING (fjOOLER SMOKING
Copyright 1948, Liccrrr tc Mm> Tobacco Ca
THE CARNEGIE TARTAN TUESDAY, MARCH 2, 1948
