WHAT WOULD THIS 
EDITION BE WITHOUT 
BEST WISHES FOR 
THE HOLIDAYS?
PITT WEEKLYSTAFF EDITION
SOMETHING NEW 
IN THE FIELD OF 
COLLEGE JOURNALISM
VOL. XXin, No. 12, FART I.CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH. PA.TUESDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1928.
Seventeen Social Fraternities Pledge 
.155 Men After Two Weeks of Ruihing, 
Many Holdouts Are Still Reported
_______ A------------------------------------------------------
Sigma Alpha Epsilon Leads 
With Seventeen Neophytes,
Beta Theta Has Fifteen
FOURTEEN MEN GO DELTA UPSILON FRATERNITY
Dances, Smokers. Dinners and Other Entertainments Held For Freshman
Following two weeks of intensive 
rushing, the seventeen men’s so­
cial fraternities shined up pledge 
pins last Saturday and lapeled 155 
plebcs, the latest group of campus 
neophytes. Many holdouts are still 
reported.
Fraternity rushing started two 
weeks ago, on November 24, and until last Saturday freshmen were exposed to a succcssion of dances, smokers, dinners and ' other enter­tainments. ' New pledges are:Sigma Phi Epsldn: A. J. Lenna, P. W. Holier, F. it Carter. H. C. Bender, E. T. Kelly, C. H.'Ford, R. B. Gunia, R. Conant, A. E. Hay- man, Jr., W. G. Young, J. L.^Bar­ker, Jr., B. A. Isainan, C. E. L. Rosenberg, W. A. Jameson, K. R. Murhard, A. D. Anderson, J. E. 
Soyring.Beta Theta Pi: L. J. Bates, C.K. Ewing, T. C. Hower, R. Camp- Jield, K. Ziegler, M. G. Armentrout, C. G. Vowinkel, A. S. Anderson, j. S. Wildbiööd, H. J. Ziegler, G. G. McGeorge, G. H. Suitt, M. Brooks, G. H. Hilderbrand, J. P. Alms. Delta Upsilon: Ii. J. Galmish,' J. V. McBride, W. J. Maher, G. L.¦ Williamson, F. R. Wicbner, R. H.I- Seitz, G. D. Hockinsinith, H. A. Collins, W. J. Nagle, R. F. Pelton, F. W. Schumacher, P. D. Blyler, F. R. Sloan, Jr., C. A. Evans.Phi Käppi Psi: G. B. Kountz,J. Burroughs, L. Cooksey, H. E. Grieshaber, T. Whiteman, W. H. Zimmerman, G. Miller, J. Allen, J. Leonard, A. H. Scott, L. F. Mc- Caskey, W. Hagenlocter, F. N. 
Moesta.Beta Sigma Rho: L. Farbman,R. Bruml, E. Levinson, B. Apple, E. Steiner, T. Meretsky, I. Magdo- - yitz, A. Schlossman, R. Cohen, M.Davidson, J. Adelman, N. Rosen- 
üa-u«.-'Sigma Nu: R. H. Smith, W. S. Spangler, S. H. Kent, A. E. Svenson, A. Archer, G. C. Ehemann, Jr., H. P. Ransom, C. C. Sayers, C. W. iBryant, T.- S. Bail}', G. R. Stanley, J. D. Morgan, Jr.Phi Kappa: H. Wall, R. Binder, W. Cain, A. Ducamis, D. Detle, H. Kolb, W. Kozicki, F. McClincy, E. O’Brien, W. Reed, G. Wolf.Delta Täu Delta: J. Horning, W. Hopkins, L. Kuhn, J. Kelly, W. Hull, .W. Allen, L. Webster, J. Herron, R. McNally, R. Rauden- baugh.Theta Xi: H. Freeland, C. Sae- ger, R. Hardy, R. Holmes, R. Fearheiley, R. Knopf, D. Fletcher, 
J. Groves. sKappa Sigma Rho: L. D. Pin- ney, G. C. Lecky, P. Kuhnel, L. E. Iioyer, N. Gross, R. E. Philips, E. Modlin, H. P. Otto.Kappa Sigma: B. Pouncey, G. Meyers, F. Hellegers, G. Nodthy, N. Neibel, R. R. Phillips, E. Riester.Delta Mu—I. K. Cook, R. G. Barger, J. M. - Bryant, D. Miller, V. Linquist, R. Ericsson.Alpha Tau Amega: J. W. Sherrer, J. Stoops, L. W. Dickson, G. U. Boyles, S. K. Wilson, T. B. Black­wood, J. W. Sneed.Pi Kappa Alpha: J. McKnight, M. Kinley, F. Millheiser, J. Kook- 
en.Phi Sigma Kappa: E. Gabler, E. Kramer, E. Bonner,'- A. M. Wil- 
fl liams.Delta Phi Delta: H. A. Glover, J. H. Fulton.Alpha Sigma Phi: None availa- 
: "—ble.
Professor Schoenberger 
Discusses Robert Frost
' Harold W. Schoenberger, pro­
fessor of English at the University 
of Pittsburgh, discussed Robert 
Frost’s poetry at the second of 
a series of Book Teas held by 
; Student Council of the Y. M. and 
W. H. A., last Thursday after- 
'noon.
Professor Schoenberger based his 
talk on Mr. Frost’s latest volume 
of verse, “West-rlmning Brook.” 
He compared this volume with Mr. 
, Frost’s earlier volumes, among 
k' which are “North of Boston” and 
“Mountain Interval,” and came to 
the conclusion that this latest vol- 
*" ume was not so good as the for- 
, mer ones. Mr. Frost seems to 
have changed his style of narra­
tive and descriptive verse to lyri­
cal, and in the transition has lost 
many of the best qualities of the 
earlier poems.
Milton Susman, University of 
Pittsburgh, Col. ’29. ‘ announced 
I that the next lecture of the series 
will be held on January. 8, 1929, 
at which time Elmer Kenyon, 
^ president of the Pittsburgh Cen- 
• ter of the Drama League of Amer­
ica, will discuss the current plays 
on Broadway. All Tech students 
interested in the drama are invited 
to atten.'i
Stewart C. Ralston
“An interesting and instructive experience for the members of the staff of The Carnegie Tartan,” Stewart C. Ralston says of the work of his staff in editing The Pitt Weekly last week. The edi­tor of the plaid paper returned from the den of the Panthers un­hurt and unharmed as his picture above may indicate.
Annual Christmas Holiday 
Commences December 17
Christmas vacation will com­
mence Monday, December 17, and 
new year classes will be resumed 
on Wednesday morning, January 2, announces Allen Bright, regis­trar. Classes will continue accord­ing to the regular schedule the rest, of this week, including Satur­day, he states. However, regular day students will end their formal classes at 5:30 o’clock Friday eve­ning. Part time and night stu­dents . will - continue through- Sat­urday.
The schedule for the rest of the year, as announced by the regis­trar, calls for final examinations from Fridaj', February 1, to Fri­day, February^ 8, and for the ter­mination of the first semester on February 9. Second semester registration will open Tuesday, February 12, and will continue on the following day. Second scmes- (Continued on Page 2)
Flying Club Members Issue 
Stock to Buy Waco Biplane
At the last meeting of the Flying 
Club, in McGill Hall, further plans 
for the proposed purchase of a new 
Waco 10 biplane for use of the club 
members, were discussed.
Thirty shares of stock with a par 
value of $100 have been issued by 
the organization to raise the pur­
chase price of the plane. As soon 
as 30 shares of stock have been sold, 
and the stock certificates have been 
turned over to Student Council, the 
plane will be bought.
The Waco 10 biplane to be pur­chased by the Fiyiig Club is of the three passenger, dual control type, and is approved by the United States Department of Commerce. Flying in­struction will be given by a" United States air mail pilot, appointed by Clifford Ball, manager of the Pitts­burgh - Cleveland air mail route. Members of the club who hold stock will be instructed in the operation and maintenance of the plane, fl soon as the principles of plane op­eration are mastered by the mem­bers, they will take the United States Department of Commerce examina­tion necessary to obtain a pilot's license.
After ground school work has been _completed by the students, a government examiner will be present to examine the prospective aviators and to issue official flying permits.
Sober Ties and Socks Hear 
TollingofDeathKnellToday
Freshmen Women Can Now Hold Converse With Opposite Sex Without Being Penalized
Departing from the custom of previous years in having plcbe regulations extend throughout tJie entire freshman year, the period of freshman regulations for this year will terminate today, an­nounces John Barr, Architecture, ’30, chairman of freshman regula­tions committee._ The curtailed period of regula­tions this year, in contrast with those of- previous years is in the nature of an experiment. The de­cision to make the experiment was decided upon since Student Coun­cil deemed it more advisable to make the shorter period of regu­lations more strenuous, rather than to have the long period develop into a laxity of enforcement. Success to Determine Regulations.The success of this year’s plan will determine the period of next year’s _ regulations b y Student Council^ states Barr. "It is the sincere hope of the freshman reg­ulations committee that the Plebes will take this new privilege in the proper spirit and that they' will orient and adapt themselves as a member of the Carnegie Clan, dur­ing the Christmas vacation period;
No ceremonies will accompany the termination of regulations this year. In previous years. the Plebes were excused from regulations on Qualifications Day, held in con­junction with Campus Week, but this feature of campus life has been discontinued this semester.Regulations from which Fresh­man men are to be excused be­ginning today include the wearing (Continued on Page 4)
Riitman Explains Fuel Oil 
Discovery before Scientists
Dr. Walter F. Rittman, professor and head of the department of com­mercial engineering, last week told American petroleum industrialists of his discovery that provoked so much interest among scientists at the In­ternational Conference on Bitumin-. ous Coal last fortnight.Dr. Rittman read nis paper, ex­plaining how he converted low grade fuel oil into high grade coal, before the American Pet. oleum Institute in Chicago. Naturally, the institute heard him with great interest since he made clear that his process is commercially feasible and that his product, the coal, can be used to make more gasoline. One large mid­dle western refinery is already using his process, he declared, and added that this plant plans to convert its 
crude petroleum entirely into gaso­line, with the manutacture of some coal as a by-product.The real significance of Dr. Ritt- man’s discovery lies in the possibility of obtaining much more gasoline than heretofore from a given amount (Continued on Page 4)
Social Work Students
Plan Novel Features
The Guild, active philanthropic 
organization of Margaret Morrison, 
plans a novel Christmas feature 
in their social work. Instead of 
the usual toy donations to un­
fortunate children, money will be 
contributed to the social depart­
ment of the Allegheny General 
Hospital for use in urgent case 
work. A small boy needing treat­ment for paralysis of the hand, a 
girl who has dental work to be done, and another patieht who is in need of a plaster cast to in­sure perfect recovery, are a few of the individuals who .will bene­fit from this year’s contribution.In addition to this splendid work the Guild is furnishing a room at the Kingsley Settlement House on Larimer avenue, for ‘ which they have already purchased copies of four famous paintings. The Vo­cational Teacher Training Depart­ment of Margaret Morrison is as­sisting in this work by furnishing 
the drapes and cushions for the room. The Guild is greatly inter­ested in Kingsley House, which it has helped maintain for some time.
Woman in Audience Answers All Queries; 
Duke Is Only Danny to Man Out Front
History repeated itself rapidly Thursday afternoon in the audi- ditorium of _ the Little Theater, where a section of the drama de­partment was rehersing a play.The cardinal wore a neat blue suit and tie, and seemed to have a peculiar lack of words in vital moments. “Did you order the (execution of the King’s messen­ger?” The - Cardinal didn't know, but a lady out in the audience did. She had all the answers. Then there was the gentleman in a gray suit known as the Duke, whom some called Lord, but to whom the man out front referred as Dan­ny. Danny wasn't quite bright. He amused himself at times by pouring over a volume that wasn’t there. Once he offered it to his friend who, fortunately, was polite 
enough to make believe that he was glad to get it.Suddenly there was an out­burst from the boys standing by
the picture frame and a cry went up, “The King, the King.” We all looked, and sure enough there was the King, with his arm propped up on a pole, wearing a striped blue sport sweater and a pair of bell, bottomed trousers. The King was a nice boy, but he seemed a bit high hat, as if everyone were pes­tering him.
The master of ceremonies sat out in the audience. We don’t know what the name of the play Uv*s, but it seemed to be “As He Liked It.” We all erot to, like the Cardinal, although he seemed kind of short-winded, as if he had been smoking too many cigarettes, and we were surprised when this mas­ter of ceremonies said: “That’sfine,” after the Duke had insulted him. It seemed then that he had a grouch against the Cardinal and when he cried out, “I guess we’ll kill the Cardinal now,” we left, for we hate to see a row.
President Baker Claims European Systems 
Are Superior to Local Educational Methods
“The European system of edu­
cation is more successful than the 
American system because it is less 
specialized and more theoretical, ’ said Dr. Thomas S. Baker, presi­dent of Carnegie Institute, in an in­terview today.
“The American system of educa­tion meets the present demands of the people, but there is a great dan-f
er that college ‘ life in the United tatcs will become too highly spe­cialized and will not give the stu­dent the necessary br.oad culture. The best type of education is the one which makes it possible for a* student to adapt liis training to the varying changes that take place in life, One cannot, train for a particular vocation for the requirements in pro­
fessional and business fields are con­stantly changing."The European sj'stem \of educa­tion emphasizes the theoretical side, for the continental student has a wide interest in culturc,” continues Dr. Baker. “The American student usually trains for a particular voca­tion to the exclusion of other fields 'of study. But there is a growing tendency in America to select col­lege students with greater care, for 
the numbers entering college is growing and the University can not afford to educate them at the present tuition rates. If college enrollment continues to increase there will be a surplus of college men for whom there is no satisfactory outlet in the business and professional worlds.”
Greek Council Discussed I Amundsen Memorial Service 
Pledging At Conference
Sydney Smith Appointed Chair­man of Annual Ball—Fahnes­tock Resigns
Interfraternity Council met Satur­day morning in the “Y” club room, with Thomas Pratt, Arch. ’29, member of Delta Upsilon, presid­ing. Seventeen fraternities were represented at the meeting which was called to order at 10:30.After the report of the Investiga­tion Committee was given, important business concerning non-pledging, a committee chairman’s resignation, 
and an appointment was in order.Rule “a” in section 8 of the Fra­ternity Rushing Rules reads:"Before 8:30 a. m., of the first day of the rushing period, no new registrant is allowed to be invited to, by, or attend with, any member of a fraternity, any function given off the campus.”
The time was changed to 9:30 a. m., in order to allow the rushes, more freedom in class adjustment. This change goes into effect, next year.The resignation of Louis Fahne­stock, Eng. ’29, from the chairman­ship of the Inter fraternity Ball For­mal was received ana acceptcd. Be­cause of pressing scholastic studies, he was forced to resign. He is a member, of Kappa Sigma. - 
Sydney Smith, Eng. ’29, a member of Theta XI, vice president of the Interfratcrnity council, Was appointed to fill his place.A one-hour period of silence from 12 to 1 p./m. during the rushing season was voted on and passed for next year. Co-operation by the frat­ernity members, with Miss Helm, head of the men’s dormitories, in 
(Continued on Page 4)
International Art Exhibit 
Attracts More than 100,000
The Twenty-seventh Interna­tional Exhibition of painting at Carnegie Institute closed last Sun­day, with 100,000 people attending during the six weeks it has been in Pittsburgh.
“The European paintings of the exhibition will be shipped to Cleve­land where they will be shown at the Cleveland Museum of Art from January 7 to February 16, 1929. 
After the Cleveland exhibit they will be shown at the Art Institute of Chicago from March 11 to April 21,” announced John O'Con­
nor, business manager of the ex- h:bit.The . American paintings in the 
International will be returned to the artists immediately. Approxi­mately 30 paintings have been sold.Over 7,000 guide books were purchased by interested art lovers, and 5,000 votes for the popular painting, prize were cast, resulting ir. the triumph of Edmund C. Tar- bell, veteran American artist, over- 115 other competitors. His pic­ture, “Margery and Little Ed­mund,” won the $200 prize ’ offered in the contest.The International, coveted by New York, Cleveland and other large cities, dates back to 1896 when John W. Beatty, then di- 
(Continued on Page 3)
Held at Tech Little Theatre
Doctors Baker, Curtis, Cleven, Miss Froken Nissen to speak; Aviator’s Friend Officiates
Memorial services for the late 
Captain Roald Amundsen, explorer 
and discoverer of the South Pole 
and Northwest passage, will be 
held Friday, 8:15 o’clock, at the 
Little Theater at Carnegie Toch, under the auspices of the Nor­wegian Society of Pittsburgh, aided by the University of Pittsburgh and Carnegie Institute of Tech­nology.
The date of the services is sig­nificant in that December 14, 1911, was the day on which Captain Amundsen, accompanied by a small group of fellow-explorers, planted the Hag of Norway at the South Pole and claimed the discover} for his country. Memorial serv­ices are to be held in every prin­cipal city on Friday, commemorat­
ing the achievements of the noted explorer. The local services are public.
Captain Amundsen lost his life when he flew to the rescue of General NobMe and the ill-fated members of liis Arctic flight, after their dirigible, the Italia, was, wr.jrkcd :n an aUe-iiipl to fly 'ovcr the - North Pole. Captain Amund­sen and his crew of six were given up for dead when a pontoon was found in the ocean off Norway and definitely identified as -that oi the seaplane, Latham, in which 
they made their last flight.There is, perhaps, no man with a more remarkable record in polar research and in general explora- 
(Continued on Page .4)
Carnegie’s Sick to Get 
“Y” Xmas Radio Service
Carnegie Y. M. C. A. radio serv­
ice to sick students will function 
during the holidays as usual accord­
ing to R. V. Davis, “Y” secretary. 
All of the six sets will be in use.
Radio service was started about 
four years ago, with one set and 
has proved so popular that the Y. 
M. C. A. has now six sets, four of 
which are in constant use. A radio 
is installed for any student, whether 
or not he is a member of the “Y,” 
who is confined by illness for any 
length of time. At the past national 
election all of the sets were lent 
out to the student associations that they might get returns. Y. M. C. A. offered their radio to A1 Lassman, captain of N. Y. U. team, but he had already been taken care of.Davis states that the radios have brought a great many students in touch with the Y. M. C. A., who would never have been reached otherwise. One man was so grate­ful that he is making the “Y” a gift of another set.
T.ch RaJo Hour Includes 
Campus Activities Program
One Carnegie Tech Radio Hour, and possibly two, will be broadcast over station KDKA sometime during the present college year, according to À C. Jewett, chairman of the radio committee. On February 14 of last year, a similar hour was present­ed through the same station, and the program met with unusual success. It was intended earlier to present the first of the radio hours planned for this year sometime in December, but owing to the fact that activities have been so numerous of late, and that considerabcl conflict arose in1 the ar­rangement of a suitable daté, it was necessary to postpone the hour.Chairman Jewett says the first radio hour will almost certainly take place in January, with prospects that it will occur on Thursday eve­ning, either the 17 or 24, between 10:30 and 11:30 p. m. Although this hour may seem rather late in this section of the country, it may be recalled that fartlierywcst it is com­paratively early in the evening.• A program very much similar to the one presented last year has been suggested, and will be submitted for approval to the members of the radio committee. Except for certain modifi­cations and revisions which the com­mittee will probably advise, a pro­gram much like the following, which has merely been recommended, will be broadcast: a song by the glee(Continued on Page 3)
Mining and Engineering 
Society Hears Perrott
Superintendent S. J. Perrott of 
the Pittsburgh experimental sta­
tion of the U. S. Bureau of Mines, 
spoke on ‘his experiences with the 
bureau at the semi-annual banquet of the Carnegie Tech Miners’ and Metallurgists’ Society last week in the Carnegie Inn. Other speak­ers at the ¿inner were Mr. Young, vice president of the Pittsburgh Coal Company; Dr. L. Blough, physical director of. Aluminum 
Limited of Pittsburgh, and Dean Mott of the College of Engineer­ing. ^
The program was arranged by Professor Aston of the metallurgy 
department, and J. A. Scott, Eng. .’29, metallurgy. The dinner set a record in number present and 
in spirit for the event of next spring to aim at, for a large group of night students swelled the at­tendance. Mr. Perrott’s speech con­cerned important happenings while he has been with the Bureau of Mines and a discussion on what a metallurgy student may expect in life after college.
Administrative Board States 
Discipline Procedure Change
Reinstatement of a DisciplinedStudent Requires Directors’ Approval of His Petition
At a recent meeting of the ex­ecutive board of administration, a restatement of the discipline pro­cedure to be followed in the event of an offense committed by. a stu­dent was formally adopted and put into effect December 5. _ Except for certain changes, the revised dis­ciplinary routine is fundamentally the same as the procedure followed in the past. Before this time it was customary for the student to present an appeal to the discipline committee, whereas the revised procedure specifics that an appeal must be made? to ythe president. Another worthy innovation is the representation of the .student body by a member of Student Council, who will actually sit among the jurors to determine the fate of the student on trial. The student rep­resentative was formerly concerned only_ with legislative matters.Disciplinary Routine Is SameWith these two alterations the disciplinary routine is much the same, and has been itemized into distinct steps as follows:1. All cases, irrespective of the nature or place of offense, shall be reported immediately and directly to the Dean of Men who shall refer each case to the Director of the College concerned.2. In a personal interview,, the Director shall inform the student of the charge against him.3. If the student admits the charge, the penalty. shall be deter­mined by the Director of the Col­lege, and the Doan of Men^ and 
the Chairman of the Discipline(Continued on Page 2)
Dramats Present ‘Richelieu’ 
CojiiingTbrsdayandFriday * _______
After weeks of concentrated practice, drama students will pre­sent "Richelieu” to the public, • oil Thursday night and Friday after­noon. This five-act historical ro­mance, written by Bulwcr-Lutton, has been interpreted by the famous 
Edwin Booth, Robert Mansfield, ¦and Robert Mantell. Chester Wal­lace, head of the drama depart­ment, has directed the students in this venture and Lee Mitchell, senior in the department designed the settings. The costumes are designed under the directorship of Bess Schrader.The men in the cast include Richelieu, Frank Sullivan;, De Maupre, Durbin Horner; Francois, Jack VVooley; Louis, Stewart Mc­Farland; Huguct, Haydon Body- comb, and Orleans, Leo Dasch- bach. Those parts already Select­ed with an alternating cast arc Bordas, Thomas Lewis and Ar­thur Sprenkle; Joseph, Clayton Thompson and Dale Plialen; De Bcrcngen, Louis Harr and William (Continued on Page 4)
Printing Students Publish 
Bi=Monthly Trade Magazine
Faculty and students of the de­partment of printing, are now at work on the January number of "Printing Education,” the bi-month­ly magazine published by Carnegie Institute in conjunction with the 
Department of Education of the United Typothetae of America.This issue, which will appear January 1, contains an address given at the recent U. T. A. Con­vention at Quebec, Canada, by Prof. Gustafson, head of the print­ing department, on “The Training of Today,” a topic which refers to the training of the master printer. It also contains the address of William Pfaff of Searcy and Pfaff, Ltd., who spoke opposite Prof. 
Gustafson at the convention on the subj.ect, “The Training of Yes­terday.” Mr. Pfaff, nationally known printer, is to give an ad­dress here next month.Printing Education, formerly The 
Printing Instructor, is “devoted to the aims of training printing craftsmen and education of future consumers of printing.” The Jan­uary issue is of 16 pages and in­cludes a number of articles by in­
dustrialists and educators.
Eight Hundred Upper Classmen Petition 
Student Council Asking for Campus W eek 
Continuation; Will Decide After Recess
Gef Senior Proofs
Senior proofs may be obtained 
and orders placed in Room 2, 
Industries Hall, any day from 
11:30 to 1:30 o’clock, and from 
3:30 to 5. Orders placed this 
week will be received before 
Christmas. Seniors are urged 
to return all proofs as soon as 
possible.
Majority of Classroom Fail­
ures Are Not Caused By 
Perennial Jollification, 
Petition Proves
COUNCIL REFUSES THISTLE PLEA TO ENLARGE FORMAT
rrimbIeWinsDeanKeeb!e’s$5
PrizelnCostumeCompetition
William Trimble, Arch. ’30, won the first prize of $5 for submitting the best design for a costume for the Arts Ball, at the Arts Ball party, held Friday afternoon, in the cxhibi-' tion room of the College of Fine Arts.
Out of 15’ costume design draw­ings entered in the competition, for which the prize of $5 was donated by Dean Kccble, head of the Fine Arts college, Trimble’s colorful de­sign was selected by popular choice at the party.
Pauline Marjorie Claire, Music '32, and John Marks, Arch. '33, received the lucky numbers drawn by lot by Jack Horner, Arts ’29, for two tickets to the Arts Ball.The main purpose of the party was to get the students introduced to each other,' and to get them ac­quainted with each other.The Arts Ball Committee reports that the collection of dues has been good up to this time. They also urge everyone who has not paid the 
first two installments on his tickets to do so before the Christmas vaca­tion. Art students arc reminded that a late fee of 25 cents is charged on late installments. The second installment is due Friday.Unique decorations arc being plan-' tied for the ballroom by the decora­tion committee. The atmosphere will he Egyptian in color, costume, and entertainment, states Wilson Eason, Arch '30, publicity chairman.The construction Committee of the Arts Ball has completed plans for its entire setting, and will begin active work after the Christmas Va­cation. Irene Tedrow, Arts '29, was in charge of the Arts Ball party The winning costumc design will be on display until the ball, in the ex­hibition room of the Collcgc of Fine Arts.
Small Assembly Receives 
New Carnegie Song Number
A new Carnegie musical number, "The Plaid Song," was given a good reception by a small gro.up of stu­dents attending the third general as­sembly of the year in Carnegie Music Hall last Tuesday. Miss Helen Hot- liam, of the drama department, pre­sented a group of readings before 
the assembly.The composer oi the new song, Walter Sickles, M’30, introduced his creation by singing and playing the accompaniment with the audience joining in the choruses. Sicklcs has already arranged the song for the use of the Kiltie Band this year. If the number continues to be popular among the student body, indications arc that it will be included in the next issue of the Carnegie Song 
Book.In remarking about the poor at­tendance at the assemblies, several student activities’ leaders, including Irene Tedrow, D’29, co-chairman of the assembly committee of Student Council, attributed the reason chiefly to the lack of advertising prepara­tory to the meetings. Miss Tedrow believed that the assembly last week was especially affected by this situa­tion.Ralph Hitchcock, P. and D.’29, how­
ever, v/ho together with Miss Ted­row is in active charge of the as­semblies, believes that interest in the assemblies is lagging chiefly because of the ordinary programs which are (Continued on Page 3)
Men’s and Women's Senior Balls Combine Because of Deficits Incurred in Former Years
Requesting the continuation of Carnegie’s annual Campus Week next spring, _ more than SOO upper­classmen petitioned Student Council at a meeting of the organization last Tuesday evening.
Following a short discussion, Pres­ident J. C. Stauffer, Arch. ’30, refer­red the petition to William Carson, Phys. ’29, chairman of the Special Committee, with the recommendation of the council that Carson-confer on the matter with Dr. Thomas S. Baker and the deans as soon as pos­sible. _ Stauffer intimated that Coun­cil will take definite action on the future status of Campus Week im­mediately after the Christmas vaca­tion.
Several arguments in support of the spring celebration were set forth in the petition, which was drawn up by A. M. Fisher, Com. E. ’29. It was stressed that “Campus Week is distinctly a school affair, planned, conducted and participated in by all students.” "Campus Week has be­come a Carnegie Tech tradition and as such is of value to the spirit and the development of the school.” “Be­cause of the elimination of the Eas­ter vacation, it is ]desirable for the administration to grant a rccess later in the spring.”
The petition answered the claim that Campus Week is more of a detriment than an aid to study, by attributing the majority of class room failures to listlessucss brought on by "Spring fever,” rather than because oi too many activities. Campus Week is Tradition Campus^ Week, an annual celebra­tion at Carnegie for a number of years, is looked upon almost as a school institution. However, in draw­ing up the calendar for the present achool year, the administration deem­ed it advisable to abolish the week on the grounds that it was detrimen­tal to the best interests of the stu­dent. The action resulted in unfa­vorable studdnt comment culminating in the petition submitted to Coun­cil by the Student Body,
At Tuesday’s meeting the names of J. G. Bair, Met E. '31, and G. L. Dunn, Arch ’.30, candidates for the editorship of the 1929 Thistle, were referred back to the Thistle publication board. Student Council refused to assume responsibility for the direct election of the editor. The Thistle board was instructed to make a choicc between the two men, Coun­cil concurring in the selection.Thistle Request Kuiuued A request of the Thistle board for permission to increase the size of the year book from 8^x11 inches to 10x12 inches was refused. Council declared that the reasons upon which request was made did not warrant I a change, and that by increasing the size of the book it would be cum­bersome and disrupt the orderly col­lection of standard-sizea books.Budgets for both the Men’s and Women’s Glee Clubs as submitted by . J. T. Seibert, W. M. ’¿9, chairman of the Budget Committee, were un­animously approved by Council. The 
Men’s Glee Club was given $550 for the current year, an increase of $50 over the initial budget of last year. The Women’s Glee Club was appor­tioned $275. This is an increase of. $25 over last year’s budget, but $25 less than the amount asked for this season.
A Campus Tag Day for the pur- (Continued on Page 4)
Student Cabinet of ‘Y.M.’ 
Holds Luncheon At Inn
Tech Students Get Jobs As Santas, Waiters, 
Giraffes, and Whatnots For Xmas Vacation
With Christmas taking leaps and 
bounds by aeroplane and Dad need­
ing his annual supply of socks, 
cigars, neckties and handkerchiefs; 
and mother rating the usual pair of gloves, hose, boudoir caps and flowers, Tech students are confront­ed with a more difficult pecuniary problem than can be found in any match proposition or calculus the­
orem.But that ain’t all. The girl friend wants a Dunhill lighter or a fratern­ity ring, and the kid brother would just have fits over an ercctor set, and then the mailman, or that good naturcd cop just can’t be forgotten. 
So what’s a fella gonna do?May he never forget the employ­ment bureau as a friend in need when as an “alum” he comes in his Packard straight eight to the old grads’ smoker. For the last few weeks the employment bureau ^ has been beseiged with requests for jobs.
And “we’re not particular, either,” seems to be the general cry.Any job that pays is welcpme, from the dramatic employment of prancing as the front legs of a giaffe to the essentially mathematical position of teaching a man to play bridge. Approximately two hundred men have applied to the Pittsburgh postoffice, and fifty to the baggage room of the Pennsylvania station.Two department stores alone are employing 40 Tech women distri­buted in the jewelry, hosiery, toy, candy, book, necktie, handkerchief, toilet goods, notions and glove de­partments, Forty-five men marched 
in the Press parade, 20 doing a take­off act on the Highland zoo, the rest cither carrying banners or disguised 
as Santa himself.The art student finds his skill very much in demand during the Yuletide season.' Many , calls for original decorations and sccnery for (Continued on Page 3)
The Carnegie "Student Cabinet 
of the Y. M. C. A. will hold its 
regular bi-monthly meeting today 
immediately following Chapel serv­
ices.' The meeting will be in the 
form of a luncheon and will take 
place in the faculty dining room 
of Carnegie Inn. It is planned to 
make this the regular time of 
meeting for the cabinet Hereto­
fore, meetings have been held at 
the call of the president, but it is 
believed that the noon hour ses­
sion will be more advantageous to 
cabinet members.
Mr. R, V. Davis, secretary of 
the Carnegie “Y,” asks that all 
men, whose homes are not in the 
city and who plan to spend the 
Christmas vacation in Pittsburgh, 
submit their names to him this 
week at the “Y” office. Mr. Davis 
has made arrangements for enter­
tainment and a dinner on Christ­
mas Day for these men. The "Y” 
v/ill also grant them full member­
ship^ guest tickets to the Down- , 
town and East Liberty Y. M. C. 
A.s, good for the two holiday 
weeks.
Mr. Davis also announces that 
the last day that checks may be 
cashed before vacation will be on 
Thursday from 11:30 to 1:30 at the 
"Y” office,

---------------------------------------------------

] Co-ed Junior Prom Ticket 
i Sale Begins After Vacation
William Penn Annex is An* 
nual Fete Scene to Be 
Restricted to Carnegie 
Tech Women
ADMINISTRATIVEBOARD STATESTHE LADDERCLAN NEWS(Continued from Page 1)
Committee. The student shall be advised by the Director of the ac­tion taken.
4. If the student denies the 
char$5* the penalty shall he de­termined by the Director of 'the College, and the Dean of Men and the Chairman of the Discipline Committee, which acting as a jury, shall hear the evidence, determine the student's guilt or innocence, and report its findings to the Di­rector. If the student is found guilty, the penalty shall be deter­mined and reported to the student as in three.
5, In cases involving suspension or expulsion the President's ap­proval shall be neccssary before final action /is taken. In such cases the student shall not be noti­fied of the penalty until the action has been approved by the •Presi­dent.
0, A statement of all penalties shall be reported in writing by the Director to the President and .i copy shall be sent to the Dean of Men and to the Chairman of the Discipline Committee. The action shall not be entered on the stu­dent's record in the Registrar’s of­fice until the student shall have waived his right to appeal. Two days from the time lie is notified of his penalty shall be allowed the student in which to present an appeal to the President.
MAJOR PAUL S. REINECKE 
Major Paul S. Reineckc, a for­mer Carnegie student, has been appointed to the _ secretaryship o! the Mississippi River Commission, which has taken on a new im­portance with the new flood con­trol ’ program. Heretofore the du­ties of secretary have been per­formed by officers of the rank of captain.Major Reinecke also attended the United States Military Academy and the army engineers’ school. He has seen service on the Mis­sissippi at New Orleans, Memphis and Rock Island. He was in New Orleans in 1922 on special work in connection with the Hood of that year.
OSCAR HELFENBEIN 
Oscar Hclfcnbein is widelyknown as a particularly brilliant pianist and successful teacher, re­
ceived his B.A, degree .from Car­negie Institute of Technology. Upon graduation he was awarded a scholarship by Josef Lhevinne, which was followed by a Jnlliard Fellowship with piano under Carl Friedberg, and Cmint-crpoint and 
Fugue under Dr. Percy C]octschius.Mr. Hclfcnbein has been a mem­ber of the FI 11 ion Studios • staff sjnpe its establishment jn ]025,
’ KENNETH E, GIBSON The Bell Telephone Company of Pennsylvania has announced the appointment of Kenneth F„ Gib­son as sales manager of the -Mc­Keesport district, reporting to Mr. J: S, Finley, district manager, Mc­Keesport, Pa.Mr. Gibson is a graduate of the Peabody High School of Pitts­burgh find the Carnegie Institute of Technology. Jle entered t|ic employ of the telephone company 
in February, 1927; as a commercial representative, and at the tijne of his promotion he was employed in tlje office of the general sales supervisor of the western area, His many friends in this vicinity, both insiçlç and outside of the telephone company, wish him every success in his new field?
Northern New Jersey Clan
Due to a conflict of dates it will be impossible to hold a New Year’s Eve party as planned and broadcasted in the school calendar.Instead a party will be, held on December 27 at the Clan house, Wilkins Coffee Shop. 7 West Park : trcet, Newark. I he committee promises‘a splendid time and all present Carnegie students arc in­vited to come and enjoy, the eve­ning with the Alumni.
A very pleasant meeting was held November 27 and an even better time is planned for the 'December meeting,
Connecticut Clan
The sccond annual mceLing of the Clan was held Tuesday eve­ning, December 11. at 8 o'clock, at the Sea Food Restaurant, our new permanent location, Asylum : trcet, Hartford. This evening was known as City of Hartford Night.. A program that was as interest­ing as the first meeting had been arranged. Detective Sargent Ed­ward Languish, criminalogist and linger print expert of the Hartford Police Department, consented to be 
with us and told us all there is to know about criminals. He had some interesting stories and tricks for us—ones that kept every one of us on edge every second. After Mr. Languish had completed his hair raising talk and demonstration, we made an inspection visit of the central fire alarm system lo­cated on Pearl street. A lire chief explained and demonstrated just
Although the annual Junior Prom 
for women, to be held at the Wil­
liam Penn Hotel Annex, will not 
be until March 22, the first pay­
ment on tickets will be held the 
first week following the Christ­
mas vacation, from Monday, Jan­
uary 7, until Friday, January 12, 
in charge of Cora Lee Henk, M.M. 
and Grace Jarrett, Arts.
When the full ticket is paid for 
the price will amount to $12 to be paid. in two $5 payments and one $2 payment. The committee finds it essential that the number of women who plan to attend the affair be known and urges the co-eds to co-operate by securing their first ticket during the first 
week they are on sale.Any women who purchase a 
ticket this year will be entitled Hi attend the prom next year a,s will the present seniors be .permitted 
to participate in this year’s prom without further payment.if the first ticket is not pur­chased at the set time, the women will be penalized by being required 
to pay an additional fee of 25 cents, bringing the price of the second ticket up to ?10.25. The second period of ' payment to l^e held in February, will add another quarter if the payment is not made. 
In this way, the prom price will be $12.50 unless payed for at the stipulated time.
The committee I” charge is searching for original ideas in 
planning lor the prom. The com­mittee is composed of Margaret Jvccnoy, chairman; Oliyc Ritchey, assistant chairman; Betty Rankin, 
orchestra; Virginia Morgan, secre­tary and invitations; Dorothy Bower and Grace Jarrett, favors; Kay McMillan, food and decora­tions; Blanche Bray, . publicity; 
Cara Lee Henk, treasurer and tickets, and Dorothy Hopkins, pro­grams.
Campaign For Alumni Dollars Extended;
Time Limit Advanced To January First
C. C'. Brumbaugh, E'24.
J. M. Sampson, E'08.
C. W. Gibbs E’15,
J. R. Paloma, E’22.
Fred R. Oefinger.
H. J. ClarkeLenore Davies Dunklee. Elmer E. Hobbs.H. M. Sheldon.Lillian Young Rodewald. J. F. Nation.W. W. Lauer.Lenore J. Read.Adah S. Borgerding.R. G. Noll.
M. A. Rosenblooni.J. W. Stralemcicr.R. T. Gabler.D. G. Murray.T. V. Chappell.Mabel Gibson.F. E. Schucjinian,W. A. Waider.William 11. Obenour.]). B. McMillin.
Must Submit Petition
Should the student under disci­plinary action desire to reinstate himself, a petition to that effect 
must be submitted by .him and passed on by the director concern­ed, the dean of mop, and the chair­man of the discipline committee.
The committee is to consist of onu representative cach from the executive board, faculty of general .studies, faculty of the College of Fine Arts, faculty of the College of Engineering, .faculty of the Col­lege of Industries, and a member of Student Council.
The student representative shall be a senior, and as stated before, is to be chosen annually by Stu­dent Council from among its mem­bers. Only faculty members of at least the rank of associate pro­fessor, who have been members of the faculty for at least three years, are eligible for seats on the Committee. The faculty members and the chairman arc to be desig­nated by (ho president.
The members of the executive 
board include President Baker, chairman; Dean Tarbcll, secretary; Directors Breed, Ihrig, Jewett, Mott; Dean Green, Professor Ivcc- blc, and Mr. Bright.
The campaign for Dollar Day to 
dat«? has not beep much of a suc­
cess. ,Up until December 7, only 
$550 had been contributed. As this sum is even less than last year’s, the results so far are quite dis­appointing. Last year over $600 was raised and given to the en­dowment fund."As was done last year, the time for collection of dollars has been extended to January 1. In this time it is hoped that the amount collected to date will be doubled. That is the desire of the Alumni office. At the beginning of the campaign it was thought that there would be no trouble in raising 
several hundred dollars more than the amount raised last year.To make this year's drive a suc­cess every alumni must contribute his or her dollar to this fund. Surely you can give one dollar to this worthy cause. Make it a 
Christmas present to your Alma Mater. It will surely be appreci­ated.
Students also 'should contribute to the cause. A few have given dollars without being asked. One .student gave two dollars, one for this year and one for last. If eyory one, students and alumni alike had this spirit the Dollar Day fund would have long ago reached the quota set by the Alum­ni office.Send a check for one dollar made payable to the Alumni Fed­
eration, or a $j together with your name. As we have been do­ing, yopr name will be printed on this page, The following list in­cludes the names of those who have contributed since Decem­ber 2:Rudyard Porter, E'18.E. G. D’vilcskis, E.William Arton.S. H. ChurchLawrence R. KirlcrJohn C. Baker, Jr., E.Mary McCloslcey.Joseph F. Christoff, I’26,D. H. Reed, F.’23.Catherine M. Allan.Florence McLaughlin.Sue F. Smith.Mary D. Hull.Dorothy Krow.M. E. Mott, /M’28.Andrew J. Cook,Gladys V. Martin.Jean Frommcr, M’27.L. W. Link.
Thomas M. Felton.
Anna M. Montgomery, 
William H. Iiarrold, Mrs. 
Max Weinstock, E’19,W. E. Culp,C. E, Rutherford.Helen O. Beatty,R. D, Street,Hapry Seaman.H. G. Tex ter, E’13,H. W. Sellaughcncy.George W. DuJin.Herbert L. Mpershfcldcr. Walter B. .Rogers, A. Raymond E. Kraus.Helen F. Poole.Jean E. Falknor (Mr. and M Mabel T. Watson,Ellsworth Perrin.Samuel A. Sloan.A. N. Stratmoen, E’20. Gertrude Gcjd.cl,Olga Gojdics.C, G. Bigelow,Rhea E. Beck.Helen K. Benedict, M'2f
Mabel Jv. Corboulcj. ‘Evelyn WycojT.R. W. Schlumpf, E’21.W. A. McGuire.Kvcrctte E. Kerns.Helen B. Gallchcr.Basil N, Greenlaw, I’23,M. R. Baum, E’23.C. P. Zimmers, A'25,John B. Stevenson,E. H, Grotcfend.J. B. Allen.John M. .Leonard, F.’2l.M. B. Butler, Jr.A|ex. J. Cox.Helen Gillespie.Alfred J. Haller, A'24.Elsie Blackburn.Jean K, LacQck..A. C. Scdlachck, E’22.Norma Kimball.David Henderson, E’12.A. J, Wurtz, Faculty. Richard W. Vaughn, 1'25.W. M, Sheldon, E’l5. Dorothy D. Savage.Herman Neiman.Karl N. Zitzman, E’21. Elizabeth J. Schwartz, M’26, John J. Lawler.C. A. Nimjck, I'26.H. S. Kalt’enborn.Walter G. Post, A.W. H. Norman, E’17.Norman D. Whaland.R. E. Buffington, E'13.R. L. Bussey.Emerson P. Postc,Mrs. Louis I-Icyl, A’19. Arthur H. Prey, E'23.
what happens when a fire box iB pulled.The question of dues was fully discussed at the last piccting and a motion setting the dues at $1 per member, per year was passed. This small amount will be used in mailing and incidental expenses. Every member of the Clan js hereby receiving notice of this assessment. Kindly scud in your dollar dues to me, now, before you forget it. All those who fail to pay their dues, will not be no­tified of meetings and social af­fairs. So send in your $1 today.Arrangements are now being made for a big mixed party to be held about the middle of japuary. It will be a wonderful party— dancing, novelties, entertainment.
11. Le|and Smith.Miss Jean D. Seaman, Asst, Prof. Singing, Music Department.
Mrs. Burnett; Gives Tea For Social Work Alumni
Airs. Mary Clarke Burnett, head of the Department of Social Work of Margaret Morrison College, en­tertained at a tea in her home on Saturday, the alumnae of the spcial work department.This event is one to which the alumnae nf this department look forward, for it is always sure to be colored highly with discussions of music, literature, art, interesting accounts of travel experiences, and memoirs , of college days. The tea is an annual event.
ANNUAL CHRISTMASHOLIDAY DEC. 17
(Continued from Page 1)
ter classes will commence on the Mill at 8:30 o’clock.On Friday, February 22, Wash­ington’s birthday, classes will be called off, in keeping with the na­tional holiday. Easter vacation will extend from Marcji 27 until April 2. Memorial Day, May 30, will also be a day of no classes, Sccond semester will end' Tuesday, June 11, the day of Commence­ment excrciscs. Baccalaureate serv­ice will be held on the preceding Sunday, the 9th.
visited Carnegie last Monday. Col­onel C. C. Carter, professor of na­tural and experimental philosophy, observed the work being dope in his field, and Licutenanl-Colonel C. L. Fcptou, professor of chemistry and electricity, interested himself chiefly in the school’s recent accomplish­ments in science. Both informally inspcctcd the military department, and Major Taylor said later, that they were pleased with it.
We sell and rent all makes 
of typewriters. Portable an.J 
Standard Machines.
See our Big Supply and get 
special student rates.
Standard Typewriter 
Company
129 FIFTH AVENUE 
Atlantic 0342
Tuxedo and 
Full Dress 
Suits to Hire
Special 
Student Rates
Sev ntocialF
MEN’S TAILOR 
335 Fifth Avenue
0(10 flint« Tlicnter Illdg.
West Point Men Inspect 
Work On Tech CampusLet’s Go To
tEcm
Barber Shop
Two members of the. United States Military Acadcmy faculty
University Restaurant
OPEN DAY AND NIGHT 
Home Cooking 
4605 Forbes St., Near Craig
Standard Makes of Tires
ASHBY & MINTEER TIRE SERVIQE
VULCANIZING—COMPLETE TIRE SERVICE 
6115 Broad Street, East End Hiland 1460
FOR OUR HAIR CUTS 
CORNER FORBES & CRAIG 
STREETS
CANDIES
FOE CHRISTMAS
Artistically packed in those beautiful 
Reymer Boxes, they will carry your 
Christmas Message in a most acceptable 
and appreciated way.
g 1-2-3 and 5-POUND SIZES
The Christmas Spirit
Is in the air, most happy are those folks, members of 
our 192S Christmas Club, whose checks are in the mail 
this week.
Our 39:29 CHRISTMAS CL*UB is now open for the en­
rollment of members, classes to suit every purse and re­
quirement, look and plan ahead by coming' in to your 
OAKLAND BANK this week and get away to a good 
start.
Oncc you have joined you will find it easy to carry the 
account through to completion.
Right Now is the Time to Join 
Do Not Delay
The world confers its key positions 
on many nicn. It must:. There is 
more than enough important work 
to be done.
Here is the man with the bent for 
machinery ; lie is building a career for 
himself as n designer of ingenious 
almost-human automatic, machin­
ery Ifor making the nation’s tele- (i
phones. Here is the analytical man \
with the.mind for figures; he is dis­
covering for himself and for industry 
what miracles lie waiting to be found, in 
unexplored statistic; Here too is the 
born leader- de vin" deeply into per­
sonnel relations to emcrg wit' ‘he so­
lution for a vital management pr blem.
In th rocesse' of telephone 
^ making, ‘ man)' a bro. ¦' je end
1] qualification i bein^ shaped into 
'J a highly specialized and highly im­
portant “key” quality.
“THE OAKLAND BANK”
Member Federal Reserve System
Where Meyran Avenue Crosses Forbes StreetTapered
RollerÏ1MKEN
ALUMNI NEWS
ì------------ ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------—------------------ —ï——---------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------—------------- 
THE CARNEGIE TARTAN_______________________________________________________________________________________TUESDAY. DECEMBER 11. 192S

---------------------------------------------------

MC“
? TUESDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1928.THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
^ MERRY CHRISTMAS 
AND A 
HAPPY NEW YEARZhe Carnegie flMaiò
A MERRY CHRISTMAS 
AND A 
HAPPY NEW YEAR
Night Engineering College 
Banquet, December 15th
Last Call For the Neccssary Card­
board
This is .the last announcement 
that can be made before the An­
nual Night Engineering Banquet 
fakes place at the Hotel Roosevelt, 
December 15, b.eginning at 6:30 
p. m.You will sec and hear a pro­gram of lively entertainment which lias been arranged. Come' out and see Margie—she will have a new:roup with her this year. Thisbanquet, it is hoped, will, surpassany that has gone before it, both as to attendance and entertain­ment.If you have not obtained your ticket, get it before Thursday eve- ning, if 3*ou can, and pay the salesman at the banquet, if neces­sary. If you do this, it will help :lie banquet committee greatly in making proper provisions for everybody.
Come to the banquet—be fed— he entertained—and find out how your fellow students act .away from school. You’ll be surprised.
YES
Aren’t you happyTo know that soonWe’ll all be freeTo enjoy ourselvesIFor two whole weeksWith nothing to doBut roam aroundAnd inibibc in Christmas Cheer’Till the bottom drops outAna the Brand New YearConics roarin’ inTo wish us Good LuckFor another twelve monthsAnd wouldn’t it be nobleTo pass on the good newsAnd share our funWith the rest of the folksA Vi 11 we?
Post Holiday Dance of * _----------¦—
Night Student Council i Idle Thoughts of an Idle Night Student
Monthly Meeting Of
Night Student Council
The Night Student Council held its monthly meeting on December 2, and some of the questions discussed and action taken were as follows:The books of the previous year have been audited» and found correct showing the following balances: Night College of Fine Arts, $28.59; Night College of Industries $10.57; Night College of. Engineering, $72.97; Night Student Council, $326.51. The last mentioned amount includes the $100.00 Loyalty Bond, and $63.00 un­divided Activities Fees collected. •Pursuant with Council action last year the balances held by the three colleges together with the undivided Activities Fee arc to be turned over to the Activities Building Fund.The Night College of Fine Arts, and the Night College of Engineer­ing presented budgets for a dance and banquet ^respectively. The dance to be held in the Union, and the banquet to be held at the Roosevelt hotel. These budgets were approved.The appointments of the Plaid .Staff were also formally approved.The question of the Arts Ball was again discussed. The Council not being advised of the personnel of any committees of the night students, it was, upon motion decided to drop any further action this year. The majority of the Night Arts officers arc of the opinion they should have been acquainted with any committee 
¦¦‘a'pp’ointmcnt's if. they arc to' be in­cluded in this activity.Non-delivery of the Tartan was again discussed. Every regularly registered night ' student is entitled to. . rcccivc the paper through the . mail. It appears there arc quite a few students not getting the paper. An effort will be m«ulc to correct this.
CHRISTMAS RECESS
KILTIE BAND
Night students in all colleges take ' notice that there will be no classes from Saturday, December 16, 1928, .until Wednesday. January 2, 1929, the occasion of the Christmas recess.The Plaid takes this occasion to wish all a very Merry Christmas and a Happy, Bright and Prosperous . New Year.
Our recent article regarding fi­nancial assistance for the band by the night students elicited the fol­lowing letter from no less a per­sonage than the Graduate Man­ager, Clarence "Buddy’S Overend.“Dear Mr. McDonald: As I satat home tonight reading The Gar- ncgie Tartan, turning to page three and in the last column I no­tice an article by one of the night students headlined “Financial As­sistance for Band Night Students.” I cannot miss the opportunity of following this idea with my hearty approval of this plan, and if such a fund is started, count me in for ten^ dollars.“The Kiltie Band is one of the finest organizations that we have at school and deserves the support of every student whether lie at­tends school at night or day."In order to equip our band with twenty-five extra uniforms, making a total band of 85 picces, I understand this would cost about two thousand five hundred dollars. Then take into consideration the night school registration, this would mean lcs^ than a. dollar per man.I feel sure if the night school Council will start a movement ofi this kind that a great many of fhc I Alumni will also make contribu­tions. I would like to see this come entirely from the night school students and alumni of the night school.Put it over ‘Mac;1 you and the other live wires can do it. Start the ball rolling now so that by next fall Carnegie Tech can pride themselves „'of the finest band in the country. Best of success, with kindest regards, I remain, “Sincerely yours, “Clarence Overcnd, "Graduate Manager.'There' is no more colorful or­ganization on any campus than our own Kiltie Band, and I' am confident that there isn't one night student who wouldn't be glad to help along the movement to curc additional uniforms for this all ‘ Carnegie organization.Your editor would be glad to rcccivc donations and suggestions and will gladly aid any plan which will be submitted.May .we count on your help to pul; this project over?
Suggestion For Night
Engineering Yearly Banquet
Preparations are under way for the Post Holiday Dance of the Night Student Council to be held on January 12, 1929, in the Union, Hold this date for this function and you will be assured of a most enjoyable evening. Ask anyone who was at the Thanksgiving Re­cess Dance. More will be said in the next issue of the Tartan.
Night Student’s Impression 
Of The International
One of the best helps to the stu­dent is a dependable fountain pin. The Singer Pen & Gift Shop in Jenkins Arcade will sell you a pen with “exchange” privileges so you can be sure that your hand “fitted.” They also repair old pens of all makes. Mention this article for special consideration.
Blasting Ice Gorges
DIRECTION or 
CUXrEA'bundle of cartridges primed with electric blasting cap floating undtr an icefloe
Lesson No. 7 of
BLASTERS’ HANDBOOK
Y
OU may never have to break up an ice gorge, but if 
you should, you’ll need to act quickly and correctly. 
Bridges, dams and other structures, not to mention human 
lives, are often at stake.
Many unsuccessful attempts to dynamite a gorge are due 
to not knowing the proper am~p’nt of explosive to use, how 
to place and fire it. You may need only a few pounds, or 
you may need 1500 pounds.
Out of their experience in helping break up ice gorges, 
du Pont field service men have written a compact chapter 
on “Blasting Ice Gorges” in theBLASTERS5 HANDBOOK. 
It is typical of the practical sort of information contained 
in this handy, pocket-size reference work. Experience les­
sons from every field in which explosives are used—lessons 
that ONLY experience could write. A valuable adjunct to 
your engineering studies. Used as such by leading technical 
institutions.
A copy is yours for merely sending the coupon beloxu
REG. U. 3. TAT. OFF.(IXE-245)
E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co., Inc.,
Explosives Department, Wilmington, Delaware 
Without cost or obligation on my part, please send 
me f copy of “The Blasters’ Handbook.”
Nome..
Dormitory.—
Room No.__
City______
It is with deep dissatisfaction that 1 am writing about the Twen­ty-seventh International Art Ex­hibit. Not that this articlc means anything in the art world, but, my mind, it isn't the best exhibit 
I’ve seen.
First prize, “Still Life,’’ by Andre Dorain, a Frenchman, is certainly not the best painting of this artist if we can class him as one by seeing his “Still Life” at the Ex­hibit. . It is not beautiful, it not colorful, it has not the best technique. Then what was it the judges saw in it that was strik­ing? They say it has a noble conception. To me it is different —it is repulsive. When I stepped before the canvas, one look was 
enough.
Second prize, also a still life, was won by a Spaniard, Pedro 'Pruna. America certainly brings fame to all sorts of people. This is the first time lie was ever heard of, and it is not any wonder, with such a painting. If flowers look as Pedro paints them, nature has been fooling us all along.Third prize, won by Glenn O. Coleman, an American. The judges say lie paints as he sees things. Then, ‘by George, lie should have his eyes examined 1 Anyone with good eyesight and who has studied art would paint the perspective 
of things correctly.I think the only sane and really good picture in a modern way is the painting, Dod Proctor’s “Por­trait of a Girl,” and, incidentally, it won first honorable mention. I don’t see why it did not get first prize. The Portrait is of pleasing character. There is beautiful color 
and grace of handling. One can almost see the blood in its circu­lation beneath the girl’s skin. Mrs. Proctor has succeeded in doing what so many artists attempt and 
fail.The painting, “Whimsical Wal­ker,’’ by Laura Knight, an Eng­
lishwoman, is a wonderful portrait. One can see the “humanness” in the handling, and understanding of life. The clown's face has a beau­tiful smile, and beneath the smile one can discern - his heart is troubled with the cares of the world.“The Detour,’' by Marquis E. Rcitzel, is a nice picture for a magazine, but not for a Fine Arts Gallery, because it is too illustrative.“Racc Track Deauville,” by Guy Pcncdc Bois. J would like to read the book that • inspired the picture. It must have been a corking good story.“Still Life,” by Pablo Ruis Pi­casso, in color is absolutely dead. Some artists depend on the color combination to put their pictures across. Pablo has neither color nor a uniform design. It is sim­ply disgusting.If this modern trend keeps up, art schools will not be necessary. One docs not need an art educa­tion to be .able to make such things as a Picasso painting.C. R. C.
Suggestion For Night
Engineering Banquet
This is a yearly affair held by the 
students of the‘College of Engineer­ing and.a very extensively advertised event, insofar as the good time we usually have there is concerned. . In the following article I wish to dis­cuss a few things, but before hand, let me say that I do not wish it as destructive criticism to any person or event. I, at present, have tickets 
for sale for this function, and intend going myself, but- there are a few. things that I think I should have a wider circulation and, since we have a paper for this purpose,. I am re­sorting to this means.First of all, why is this banquet held ? I would suppose that it j_s a get-together meeting of the Night Engineers, in school, although I have seen quite a number of men who are not in school at the affair, and also 
quite a few outsiders entirely.'Then comes the question—how is it held, To my knowledge a ban­quet hall is secured and a price for the dinner set. To this price an ad­ditional small amount is added to help pay for the entertainment and the bulk of the entertainment cost comes out of the student’s activity fee of the College of Engineering.The stucfent activity fee is the dol­lar paid by the student upon regis­tration and, after the Council budget is taken out this fee is prorated be­tween the three colleges to defray the expenses of smokers and other functions held by- the individual col­lege. The thought that strikes me 
is this: Is the banquet the rightplacc to-put our activity fee? Sure­ly, we get the benefit of it provided we go, but how about the man who must look .twice at the banquet price before he spends it, and then de­cides that he cannot afford to go. He has paid his activity fee and is entitled to all the benefits therefrom, but if we arc going to hand it' to him with a string tied to it, such as saying that, “it is here at the banquet for you” ;.~d making him come across again does not seem fair to me. Then again, if a man cannot afford to go'he is losing the benefit
In spite of all the signs and announcements to do our Christ­mas -shopping early, wonder wliy it is that we all wait until the last minute until we finally get into the mad scramble. Each year I make a firm resolution that nev­er again will I let the present buying go until this late date and by the time that Christmas gets here again it is the same old story. Incidentally, it does not seem to me that people exchange gifts as they once did. Now it: is more in' the form of greeting cards, and personally I think it is a fine thing. If the present trend continues the old jokes about f the Christmas necktics and socks 'and so on will be all out of date and won’t even be funny.Well, the Arts had their big blowout last Saturday and from an eye witness it was quite some affair. This is not surprising if one knows Jimmy Sansonitti, as lie certainly is a live.wire and you can bet your last year’s straw hat that any dance lie sanctions will be OK.'The latest advices emanating from the Engineers state that everything is in readiness for their big banquet this coming Saturday at the Roosevelt. They ¿lajm this one is to surpass all previous ones. Well, it certainly is going to be some job to accomplish and I know' whereof I speak because I have attended several of the past affairs and there was plenty of ac­tion in those, so it is hard to im­agine what will happen at this one.Wonder how the Thistle Com­mittee is making out. So far have heard nothing in connection with this publication and to an outsider it appears as though they better get started if they intend, to finish up before school closes as there is much work to be done.Wasn’t that a peach of a sug­gestion from the night Industries man in connection with the Kilty Band.
ii---------------------------------------------------*
Now that the thing has been started we should all kick in with a buck a piece and put the thing over in a way to make Carnegie proudof her night students. There are 3,500 of us this year, so if we would all do this, you can readily see that we could furnish about 35 uniforms and then if the day students would furnish their usual number, we would easily have the largest collcge band in the coun­try. Let’s send in our dollar right now before we forget and also cause we usually feel niore gener-1 ous this time of the year.Well, we arc almost at the half way mark and it won’t be long now until the classes can be con­solidated. It seems a shame that so many should drop out each year. Of course, some . are drop­ped because they do not pass the exams. Some of these men would like to continue the balance of the year even though they know they are not eligible to take the exam at the end of'the year. As I understand, this is not permitted by the school. Now, here is where I think there is something wrong. Even though the tuition is notvery high, it seems to me that the men _ who flunk out and are . not permitted to attend classes for the second semester should be given a refund. If this is not pofesible', then these men should be grouped to­gether / in a class and given thework of the previous semester over again. This eliminates the loss of half a year and Kiv.es the student full value for his money.Don’t forget the Post-Holiday Dance on January 12 in the Union. This is another popular affair, on the Night Campus.So far 192S has been a pretty ood year and in some, ways wearc sorry to see it depart, in fact, very sorry, were it not for the hopes of 1929, so the Idle Student wishes you all A Very Merry Christmas and A Happy and Pros­perous New Year.
K.
I Nondelivery of Tartan; j|'
of-his fee and this strikes me as a 
'to him that hath shall be given” 
proposition. Why should any man 
help pay for someone clsc’s enter­
tainment just because he cannot af­
ford to pay the additional pricc?
Here is a suggestion to our of­
ficers in Engineering: Why not have 
two separate prices i for these ban­quet tickets? One for the outsider and man not in school, and a re­bated ticket for the night engineer in school. I recently talked with a graduate student who is still very- active in our midst and otic who at­tends all our functions. This man feels that he would rather pay a higher price for his ticket and have the price knockcd off the students’ ticket for he feels that tne student has paid once. Suppose we could arrange to have these men pay,, say 50 cents more,, and the same 50 cents taken from .the student ticket, it would be an incentive to the students to go and also place the pricc more within the reach of many of us.Let us have the. banquet, surely, but let us be fair to all.—H.
TECH RADIO HOUR
(Continued from Page 1)
club and band; a short address by Clarence Overcnd, director of athle­tics; selections by the men’s and women's glee clubs; talk by Howard Harpstcr, this year’s captain of the 
Tartan eleven; a sketch by the drama department; and selections by the symphony orchestra and Kiltie 
band.The radio committee is composed of the following members: A. C.Jewett, director of the college of In­dustries and chairman of the com­mittee; John D. Beatty, secretary of the bureau of recommendations and secretary of the mining and metal­lurgical advisory board; Ralph S. Clark, manager of the news bureau; Miss- Mildred Lawton, curator of the department of music; R. B. Leighou, professor and head of the industrial science department and associate di­rector of the summer and night courses; and Clarence Overend, grad­uate manager of-athletics and alumni executive secretary.
SMALL ASSEMBLY RE­CEIVES NEW SONG
(Continued from Page 1) 
being presented. “Should some spe-> cial occasion arise, or some popular speaker or performer be presented at an assembly," Hitchock states, “1 am certain that attendance would immediately increase. At present, however, the programs are not suffi­ciently interesting to demand greater attention.”In attempting to bring a popular performance before the next assemb­ly, Hitchcock is negotiating with tlifc famous “Red Arrow” quartet of the Pennsylvania Railroad, and hopes to present them next month.
CRAIG RESTAURANT
412 South Craig Street 
TRY OUR 
REGULAR DINNERS 
40c and 50c
Plaid Sheet; Puppet j ON THE SIDE |„ . -—— . . _ . ----------------------------Copy of Circular Letter to be Read to Classes
Quite a numbeV of ¿night stu­dents arc complaining that they arc not receiving their copy of the Tartan. It is the desire of the Night Student Council that every 
student \vho pays the $1 Activity Fee receives the Tartuii weekly. ,lf there are any members of this class who are not getting the Tar­tan, they arc requested to hand ir. their names and address to the instructor, or send the information to the Night Student Council, Box 137, Carnegie Institute of Tech­nology, Pittsburgh, Pa.
The Plaid sheet of the Tartan is being edited for your particu­lar benefit,' and comments are so­licited as to how we are succeed­ing. Contributions are also de­sired from various classes and any­body with ability to write is so­licited to submit articles. Send this data to the Plaid Editor, Room 12 Industries Building, Car­negie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa.
The Puppet, staff is desirous of securing' the co-operation, and pa­tronage of the night students, both as to aid in distribution of the publication and also the sale and 
purchase of the various , issues. They have offered to create a night staff, and an effort is being made to secure one. Any student is eligible to participate in this activity, and suitable awards will lie made where the work justifies." The plan is to sell the Puppet during the week (of -issue before classes. This would only require a half hour or so between 7 and 7:30 p. m. If there is any one interested in the staff end, please send in the name to the Night Puppet Stag, Room i2, Industries Building, Carnegie Institute of Tcchiiology, Pittsburgh, Pa. When you| are solicited for purchase of the Puppet, wc hope y„p\\ will pa­tronize this student publication.
PUPPET
It is due — what? The holiday number of the Puppet. Have you secured your copy? Obtain it from your night salesman, lie is only too glad to serve you.
Deserved Recognition Figures Campus Week Placing This Column Teletypesetter
Wc arc all without doubt very glad to see the d(¡served recognition which is, being given to Howard Harpstcr. He is worthy of all the nice things that can be’ said about him. Of course, it is “too bad” that Pitt with the able assistance of certain sports writers were, unable to manufacture an All-American For than in former years.
Wc wonder what the official regis­tration figures arc this year. Todate wc have not seen them an­nounced. The general impression is, at least in Industries, that the num­ber of student« is considerably larger .than in, formrc years.
This column, for some reason, orother feels the urge to' mention thatmuch ^ discussed subject, "Campus Week.” The administration’s stand may be.justified, of course, but the consensus of student opinion seems to be vastly in favor of holding, in all its glory, the traditional event. We certainly would like to sec the matter cleared up to the satisfaction of the majority of those concerned.Incidentally we hope this column doesn’t get misplaced. “On The Side" would, of course, prefer the left side 
of the page, because as wc arc taught in printing, it gets—uncoil*, sciously, of course, first attention from the reader. Wc hope you don't think it should be "outside."Interesting news from the Print­ing Department. The recent, reported invention of the tclc-typcsettcr, a machine that will set type by tele­graph or radio. This new devise combines the Linotype machine and the tclcgraph-typcwritcr. The claims of the inventor arc that with this devise, when perfected, one man will be enabled to set type for scores of newspapers,. in many different cities at the same time. This Invention, if it proves to -be practical,'will cer­tainly be a great time and labor saver for the newspaper industry.—L.
The practical advantage of being married 5,000 feet up in the air is that an exhilarated best man won't trip over I lie bride’s 'lr .n.
Retailing is a pro) 
foi a successiti!1;; 
0uz.0r^aiuzal)|OTÍr¿íf(,^},i>íi''n' 
Many of out moii-s) 
Äh School 
Visit Uie oÍHi 
in.leiestin.gf-':
'V\\
d&sffe*“1 promise
............ipoiluiuues.
.lives aie 
¦uates. 
ißii-ectoi foi 
^ _ subject.
^KAUFMANNS• AVKNUk fitriiuniH
TECH STUDENTS GET JOBS
(Continued from Page 1)
Christmas parties and card designs have been received through the bu­reau. And the clever artist can translate the fashionable rage foi unique parties into substantial re­muneration and finally Christum gifts.
All these seasonal jobs arc in addi­tion to the usual routine positions of serving at banquets, taking care oJ children, typing, and other odd jobs for which the bureau receives call* and handles throughout the school year.
It is estimated than about 75 wom­en and 500 men will be employed during the rush season. These figures do not include the town stu­dents who do not get cmploymenl through the bureau. The fact thal more men. arc being employed than women is explained since the ma­jority of the women return to thcit homes during the holidays.The employment bureau urges that students planning to stay in town to work for at least a week will regii- ter in the office immediately, so that the bureau may give quicker scrv-
INTERNATIONAL
ART EXHIBIT
(Continued from Page 1)
rector of the fine art department, 
impressed Andrew Carnegie ' with the success of several loan exhibits held in this city annually. Mr. Carnegie furnished the money for an art gallery in the Library Build­ing and co-operated with the fine aits committee in sending Mr. Beatty to Europe to arouse for*, cign interest. The result was the first International which opened November 6, 1896. Enthusiasm for the exhibition has grown until Pittsburgh now regards it as the basis of its art year..
• National Tailors •
• Will feature this season ?• CONSERVATIVE• Style and Fabrics in •
SUITS •• OVERCOATSJ TOPCOATS ITUXEDOS
• Also a complete line of 1m- •• ported and domestic fancy pat- •J terns in the J
• NEWEST APPROVED ! ; COI.I.KGIATK MODKI.S i
Display at SKIBO INN January 7th and Öth
$29.50 $34.50
To Your Measure
BALTIMORE
And the blend can't
be copiedf
Our Service 
First in Favor
Two great qualities place 
our catering entertain­
ment service first in favor. 
We are modernly and 
adequately equipped for 
every type of affair, and 
we are unfailingly reliable 
in performance.
tMenus and estimates 
submitted without obligation. 
Phone us for suggestions.
Weddings a Specialty
lS[o visitor to Normandy ever considered his 
tour complete until he had made the pilgrimage 
to Mont St. Michel and the Inn of the Famous 
Omelet—ChezMadame Poulard, I’lncomparablc, 
la Fameuse Omelette.'
The Madame is since gone, hut not until 
just before she died did she reveal the secret 
of her famous omelets. No doubt hundreds 
have tried—and struggled in vain—to use the 
precious information, but as a writer has put
it, the Inn without Madame is "like Tara’s hall 
without the harp!”
The making', of a great cigarette, too, is a 
secret to be guarded. The artistry lies in bow 
the tobaccos are blended—and from our own 
private formula comes the rich fruity flavor that 
you get in your Chesterfield.
Suffice it to say that our blend can’t he copied 
—nor for mildness with flavor can you duplicate 
the rare Chesterfield goodness.
roisPiadlige
MILD enough for anyb o dy... and yet.. THEY SATISFY
uccBiT * urns tobacco CO-

---------------------------------------------------

W. G. COOK, Control Engineer 
University of Pennsylvania, .2*
A. F. KEN VON, 
General Engineer v 
Iowa State College. '21 i
af#®
YOUNGER COLLEGE MEN
ON REGENT WESTINGHOUSE JOBS
CLARENCE LYNN, 
Designing Engineer, 
University of Kansas, .19
J. F. KOVALSKY. 
Contract Administration 
W. T. N. S., '24
FORBES
NATIONAL BANK
FIFTH AND OAKLAND :: PITTSBURGH
Bank Where You Live
There are innumerable advan­
tages in banking where you are 
living.
We offer you every feature of 
modern banking.
A.*it.l $380,080 Sur*lus $300,000
DANCING 
At JACQUES SCHOOL
CRAIG & FORBES ST.
Beginners Mondny nml Friday Eve* 
nings. Advanced, Thursday and Satur­
day Evenings. Private lessons by ap­
pointment. Mayflower 7891
The Campus Scout
All Makes oi Typewriters, New and Used 
Sold—Rented—-Repaired
aort Pitt Typewriter Co., Inc.
Royal Portable Distributors—ATLANTIC 8320
New Main Store 
McCIoy Bldg. Branch Store
624 LIBERTY AYE. 428 FOURTH AYE.
TREAT YOURSELF TO THE BEST
Rent a Tuxedo Suit and 
Accessaries From 0s
ALL SIZES PERFECT FIT
Special Student Rates
Whittington Dress Suit Co.
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE 
Day Phone Atlantic 9595 Night Phone Lafayette 4791-R
Social Worker’s Club Fetes 
Settlement Waifs at Party
The Social Workers' Club will hold its annual Christinas party for the club girls and boys from the various settlement houses in the city at 8 o’clock, Wednfcsday, in Margaret Morrison Recreation Hall, announces 
Katherine O’Donnell, general chair­man of the parly committee.Games, dancing and refreshments arc . the main features on the pro­gram arranged for the entertainment of the members of several clubs from I he Heinz Community House, Kingsley House, Irene Kaufman Settlement and Soho Community House.Rose Tcrncr, program ; Rosalie Mil­ler, decorations; Emma Garvey, re­freshments; Agnes Power, finances; Isabel Warner, invitations, and Miss Dora M Finert, instruction in social work, are assisting Miss O'Donucil. The sophomore social workers will take part in two folk dances, -‘Here We Gome A-Caroline," and the "Vir­ginia Reel.” Carnegie Stringers will furnish music for the evening.President Thomas S. Baker, Miss Mary Watson Green, dean of wom­en, and Miss Mary Bidwcll Breed, dean of Margaret Morrison, will be honor guests at the Christmas recep­tion.The faculty advisors arc: Mrs.M. G. Burnell, head of Social Work department; Miss Dora Eincrt, Miss M. Condon and Miss T. R. Moore.
Read Magazines For Fun 
Advise Maggie Murphs
A magazine rack for the recrea­tion hall is being sponsored by the Margaret Morrison Senate. Miss Green, dean of women, the four classes, and the senate have contri­
buted. Subscriptions have been made to all the popular magazines, which will be placed in the recreation hall for the use and enjoyment of the students in the college. ,
EIGHT HUNDRED UPPERCLASSMEN PETITION
(Continued from Page 1)
pose of giving students an oppor­tunity to contribute to the Carnegie Endowment Fund was approved by Council. January 7, the first Monday after ihe Christmas holidays, was selected as the date. The recently organized Acleas Socicly, Sophu- riiore Women’s Honorary Society, will conduct the campaign.Approve Senior Ball Unification Council approved the motion of J. H. Siebert that the Men’s and Wom­en’s Senior balls be combined into one social function Hits year because of financial deficits incurred by each function in the past few years.President SlatilTcr appointed Wil­liam Carson, Jack Barr and P. IT. While, a commit tec of three to in­vestigate the advisability of adopt­ing hand worked leather commence­ment programs and invitations. .Council will hold its last meeting before vacation tonight.
GREEK COUNCIL DISCUSSED
(Continued from Page I)
Ihe matter of tunn-in keys was dis­cussed. Less confusion and checking up of men are needed, the rcprcsen- latives agreed.The date set for the next meeiing is Saturday, January S, in Ihe "Y" club room at 10:30 a. m. Important business concerning the Inlerfraleni- ily Ball Formal budget will be dis­missed. The ball will be held Jan­uary II, at Ihe Schenlcy hotel, All representatives are urged to be al ibe meeting.
RITTMAN EXPLAINSFUEL OIL DISCOVERY
(Continued from Page 1)
of crude oil. In fact, that is what he set out to accomplish. Ji is a vital link in a chain that leads to increased production,The "cracking" of petroleum as generally practiced gives about a 50 per cent yield of gasoline. Professor Rittman claims that he cari increase this figure by 90 per cent or obtain a 95 per cent yield by applying his process to distillation. To do this, lie uses only the fuel oil residue. He demonstrates the practical value of it in his. paper:"Low grade fuel oil at the present time in the Middle West is selling at about one and one-half ccnts a gallon. When, with a manufacturing cost of a few ccnts a gallon, it is possible lo convert considerable por­tions of the fuel oil into gasoline, then it al once becomes obvious that the goal of the progressive refiner is to produce a maximum or gasoline and a minimum of fuel oil from a given quantity of crude oil, particu­larly since he receives for a gallon of fuel oil only a fraction oi the price which he pays for crude petrol­eum.'’The National Petroleum News for November 28, and the Oil and Gas Journal for November 29, published the entire paper.Because of his wide interest, Dr. 
Rittman has been well known for 
some time in scientific circles, bul the first reading of his paper, which 
was also the first intimation of his discovery, brought him national prominence. Other scientists had just reported success in making oil from coal when he told them how to reverse the process. The Asso­ciated Press wired that he "startled” the conference.Professor Rittman reaches three classes at Tech: Industrial Manage­ment, Buying and Selling and , Com­mercial Engineering Reports. He is also consulting engineer for the United States Department of Agri­culture, national president of the So­ciety of Industrial Engineers, and author of numerous articles on fuel, oil and gas. He is retained by sev­eral refining companies, and at the Petroleum Institute lie represented mid-continent refiners, lie celebrated his forty-fifth birthday on Decem­
ber 2.
AMUNDSEN MEMORIALSERVICE IS HELD
(Continued from Page 1)
lion than Captain Roald Amund­sen. Numbering among his major achievements are the discovery of 
ihe South Pole, the discovery and navigation of the Northwest pas­sage, the second navigation of the Northwest passage, and I In: com­
mand of Ihe first airship to cross the. Polar Sea and the North Pole, lie did ihe major portion of his exploring in the name of his coun­try» but Ihe achievement most high­ly valued by himself was the. flight 
across the North Pole, in com­pany with Lincoln Ellsworth, an American, who shared ihe glory 
of the expedition.The principal speakers at the service will be. Dr. Thomas S. Taker, president of Carnegie In­stitute. of Technology: Dr. Herber I). Curtis, director of Allegheny Observatory, of the University of 
Pittsburgh, and Dr. N. Andrew N. eleven, professor of history at the Universi I y of Pittsburgh. Miss 
Frolcoh Horgil Nissen of the de partnient of higher research of I lie University <>i Pittsburgh, re­cently from Norway, will also speak, I he services will bo con­ducted by Frederic Schaefer, per­sonal friend of Amundsen.
Where do young college men get in a large 
industrial organization? Have they 
opportunity to exercise creative talent?
Is individual work recognized?
111
S
QUEEZED .between giant 
rolls, heated steel bars flatten 
to form steel sheets for the bodies 
of the automobiles that our mod­
ern hurrying'America demands.
So rapidly has this demand 
grown within the 
past few years that, 
the American Roll­
ing Mill Company,
of Middletown, Ohio, recently 
found it necessary to install a “hot 
strip” mill larger than any before.
Such record-breaking capacity 
brought with it a train of new 
problems. Electric control had to 
be devised to keep the big 3,000 
and 4,000 hp. D. C. motors “in 
step” and prevent irregularities 
in thickness or quality of the fin­
ished sheets. Huge generators and
transformers had to be designed 
to handle the power require­
ments of this new mill — the 
largest of its kind in all the world.
111 
To Westinghouse came the assign­
ment of designing, manufacturing, and 
installing this equipment. Opportuni­
ties of this caliber are not rare in an 
organization with the resources which 
Westinghouse commands. Westing­
house attracts young men of enterprise 
and genius because it 
daily provides a class 
of opportunities whick 
smaller companies can 
seldom offer.Westinghouse
J. J. MELLON, 
Jtenuclaer, *24
J.M.CUNNINGHAM, Power Engineer, 
Colornclo School of Mines. '22
TITF. r.ARXEGTE TARTAN
College JoWelry — Seal Stationery — Pennants
C. M. STAUFT
3806 FORBES STREET
Loose Leaf Notebooks and General Students Supplies
The ^Largest Jrlot Strip Mill in the World
DRAMATISTS PRESENT"RICHELIEU”
(Continued from Page l)
Johns. The women are Florence Wakefield and Sally Franklin as Julie; Olivia Kelly and Helen Ja­cobs as Marion D’elornc. Pages, courtiers, ladies-in-waiting and soP- diers, as background figures. ;<"Richelieu” lias been chosen for one of the first 'plays because of the vitality it has retained through the years, and because it is an cx- ccllcrit drill in technique for the
The Campus Crusher
In Black, Tan, Gray
THE NEWEST IN EASTERN 
COLLEGIATE HEADWEAR
$1.50.
Also Campus Dinks at $1.95
Fraternity Displays By 
W. Liddy, Collccc Representative 
Of
Stanley’s Clothes Shop
6003 Penn Ave. - East Liberty
TÜESDÄY, DECEMBER' 11. 1928.
students. A play so similar to the classics is extremely difficult to in­terpret correctly and intelligently. Credit goes to the cast for at­tempting the piece. The compli­cated situations arc typical of plays of the old school. After Christ­mas the play will begin a regular
17 say 
“Merry Xmas” 
j with same Gift
Evanston, 111.Dec. 31, 1927Larus & Bro. Co.Richmond, Va.Dear Sirs:I happen to be bloefc with a host of very fine friends,»mostly “highbrows” —professors, scientists, etc. Gener­ally at Christmas time they show their remembrance and all that with some little gift—.a box of cigars, fishing tackle, a book—all that sort of thing.Well, this Christmas many seemed to centre on tobacco. Now, mark you, these fellows have no communication ¦with each other. They live in widely separated parts of the country, so it was no “put-up” joke on me or any­thing like that. But here came seven­teen boxes of tobacco, and sixteen of them the familiar blue “Edgeworth!” The seventeenth was a very flossy walnut, brass-trimmed, box, but if I know tobacco, the contents were Edgeworth with a little perique in it. • Just coincidence, perhaps, but a queer one. Am not an habitual smoker of Edgeworth, so they weren’t catering to any especial taste of mine. Looks like a consensus of opinion among the “highbrows”—or quite a batch of ’em—that Edgeworth is the stuff, the proper caper for a gift.
Sincerely yours,F. A. Fitzpatrick
Edgeworth
Extra High Grade
Smoking Tobacco
“Only last night I Mas saying 
to Dad ...”
“Didn’t know your Dad was 
in town?”
“He isn’t, but when I was very 
young he taught me how to 
use the Telephone . . . and 
next time don’t interrupt me!”
Even if you’re “broke,” you ean 
telephone home—just tell 
the Operator to reverse 
the Charge
Greater Freedom of Speech and Decreasing 
Introspection Characterize Modern Student
Hello Skibosl This welcome conics from the most widely known and most feared person on I he University of Pittsburgh campus; no other than the Campus Scout, who sees all, knows all, and tells all in a confidental way to the student body of the across the way school. You arc now about to be entertained by the master dopcstcr and scoopcr of local col­legiate circles.
Wc have just been waiting for this chance to explode with the pent up praise for the Car­
negie Tech football team which wc have had in store for the past few weeks. Your scout was fortunate enough to see two Tartan grid games this past season, and wants to let you Scotchmen know right now that wc think you have one of the best teams in the country. That Harpster boy is one of the best players this writer has ever seen in action, and had your scout not seen Ken Strong in action, would rate 
I-Iarpstcr the greatest back to visit this district in the mem­ory of your scout. But say, didn’t Strong play a superb game against the Tartans over in Barney Drcyfuss’ back yard? Harpster is through next year, 
graduating next spring, probably with honors. He is a wonderful loolball player and a good basket ball player. Me combines brains with his build and skill, an. ideal 
combination as any coach will readily admit. But after all, I-Iowdie may have been more than one- cleventh of Coach Steffen’s team, but it took 10 other men to mow down all opposition with the ex­ception of N. Y. U. Having seen 
Carnegie in only two games, your scout can not recall every man on the eleven, but a few did stand out in the Pitt and N. Y. U. games. Miciziner is about as good a center as we have ever seen, with the exception of Chuck Howe, 
Princeton s captain and alNAmcri- can. Your scout scrimagcd against Howe when lie was a mere high school lad. Sol Miciziner is big, fast and keen at diagnosing plays! of the opposition. Your smut' knew John.. Karcis when lie was the idol of the high school girls 
down at Monaca High. He and Roscnzweig did plenty to slave off defeat until the final game,It semes rather strange that Carnegie Tech, champions of the district, should have only one man chosen to play on Coach Andy Kerr’s all-Eastcrn team at California, December 29. Captain Harpster is the sole Tartan griddcr to receive the honor and the trip. Two Pitt men have been invited and will acccpt the offer to 
play on the sunny Californian coast. Captain Fox. guard, and Mike Gctto, tackle, will ac­company the Wash-Jeff mentor 
to the coast. Pitt’s powerful forward wall was one of the strongest in the country and caused comment from coast to coast. No wonder two of the
iug,” adds Dr. Schoen. "It .is usual­ly a veil for one’s real feeling. A person docs not deliberately prevari­cate, but it is difficult to probe to one's depth and to honestly tell what is there. Wc dctcivc ourselves-when wc think wc arc being honest.
"When students answer question­naires, they answer honestly. But when the questions deal with per­sonal matters, the answers bccomc untrustworthy. There is a reluctancc among students to answer honestly when they know that strangers, will read them. Questionnaires arc val­uable only so far as they indicate general tendency in a certain direc­tion, as the drawing away from ac­cepted creeds, but they arc useless in. drawing definite conclusions,” con-- cludcs Dr. Schoen.
Panther linemen were choscn. Other Eastern stars who will make the trip includc Ken Strong of N. Y. U., Chuck Howe of Princeton, and per­haps Cagle of Army.Last year Captain Gibby Welch of the Panthers was offered a bid 
to make the trip to California for the annual East-West all-star game, but the Pitt authorities re­fused him permission to go.Well, you students have sure­ly had enough football and red headlines for one season, so let us turn to the more gentle sport of the hardwoods. With a sour taste in your mouths from last year’s cage season it will be hard for you Tech students to look upon the impending basketball campaign With any great enthusiasm. But after all, Captain White and his boys set a record. It is doubtful if any other college basketball team in this part of the country ever went through a season without a single vic­tory. And when you play the champions of the country three times a season you can mark down three defeats with as-
"Studcnts talk more today because it is a growing indication of emanci­pation, but this talk hardly ever rc- ; suits in action,” states Dr. Max Schoen, professor and head of the j department of education and psy- ! chology, in a rcccnt interview.
"There is greater freedom in talk­ing about self-analysis than ever before, but students are no more in­trospective than /before. This tend­ency towards openness and frank­ness is wholesome, for one often gets a new light on the subject. We should guard ourselves against draw­ing general conclusions from particu­lar instances, from believing that talk 
means action, and from accepting at facc value what any person says.“Language very often is riot neces­sarily an indication of actual feel-
Prominent Women Elected 
Acleas Charter Members
Activities Character Leader­
ship Endeavor Altruism 
Service Base Choice
national activities fraternity estab­
lished at Pitt in 1925.Miss Charlcsworth began her work immediately after her re­turn from the National Cwcn con­vention at the University of Mis­souri at which she was elected eastern extension chairman. She communicated her enthusiasm to Margaret Wagely, then president fo Sophomore women. Together 
they went to Dean Green, who approved and lent her support to their plans. With the aid and ad­vice of the Faculty and of Mortar Board, they chose freshmen girls outstanding in personality, leader­
ship, interest in activities and scholarship to form a society for the recognition of there qualities.
A constitution modeled after that of Cwcns, which the local Organi­zation will later petition, was ap­
proved by student council on No- vcrhbcr 13. The official recogni­
tion of the group at the assembly enables the members to launch 
the first part of their year's pro­
gram. .
A freshmen assembly after 
Christmas vacation will be the 
opening of a movement to ac­
quaint freshmen with the ideals of 
Acleas as expressed by its name. 
The letters of Acleas stand for 
activities, character, leadership, en­
deavor, altruism and service and 
citizenship.
Officer—"You were speeding. I’ve 
got to pinch you."
Fair Motorist—"Oh, pica c' If you' 
must, do it were it won’t show!"First Church of Christ
SCIENTIST 
CLYDE ST., PITTSBURGH
SUNDAY SERVICES 11 A. M. 8 P. M.Sunday School ^11 A. M.Wednesday evening services 8 to 9
surancc.
Pitt may not ‘ have the world- beater of a team that they had last year after losing two of the 
finest guards ever to grace a cage court. Captain Sykes Reed and S'.anlcy Wroblcski have, graduated 
and Coach Carlson will-no doubt feel their loss. On the other hand, Coach Irwin has most of his men 
(Continued oil Page 5)
SOBER TIES. AND SOCKS
HEAR DEATH KNELL
(Continued from Page 1)
of black . tics arid black cotton 
socks exclusively; wearing of the regulation Plebc cap; wearing, raising, or attempting to raise ' a moustache; smoking on the cam­pus, cxccpt in the club rooms, the carrying of matches, and the prohibition of any headdress in the buildings, but covering of the head when on the outside. Fresh­man women will be excused from wearing the/ regulation arm-band 
and will be permitted to talk and walk with co-cds'.
The friendly, efficient .sopho­mores who helped bewildered freshmen feel at home during the trying days of Freshmen Week, the tactful uppcrclassmcn who1 guided forlorn Susans to lonesome Katherines, the smiling waitresses at the Y. W. C. A. banquet, the gracious aides at President Baker’s reccption-‘-thesc were the girls that Dean Tarbell announced as char­ter members of Acleas, honorary fraternity for sophomore women, at the general assembly last Tuesday.Frcshmert women look to Aclcas as a new tradition at Carnegie Tech. Miss Mary W. Green, dean •ci women, is delighted with the spirit it has already shown. “The biggest danger a freshman girl has to facc is the case with which she can fall into a groove. By its encouragement of extra-curicular activities, Aclcas will nullify this,” 
she statedThe members of Aclcas regard the co-operativc spirit existing be­tween Pitt and Tech in non-ath- letic as well as football activity as the foster father of their or-' 
ganization. The interest in the es­tablishment of a society like Acleas came from Fannie Mac Charles- worth. a junior in the school of education at Pitt and former presi­
dent of the Pitt chapter of Cwcns,

---------------------------------------------------

fTÜ'ESDAY, DECEMBER 11; 1928.THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
Graduate Manager Overend Gives Advantages of Fifteen-Year Agreement With Pitt.
Carnegie Students to See Work of Grid Outfit 
Ten Varsity Grid Battles Stands Out As Best 
Next Year For Same Fee 1° Carnegie History
In summing up Carnegie’s past football season we should first let the team know that we are proud of it and the record it made. At the start of the year Coaches Stefr fen and Waddell were handicapped by the loss of many veterans, To fill their positions they had only green men from last year’s plebe squad, but the willingness which these men showed to overcome their lack of experience, partly made up for this handicap.Captain Harpster, who was picked on practically every all-American team selected this, year, played a vital role in the" team’s success. His wonderful example and excel­lent leadership made everyone boost the Skibos' from the - start of "the season. The progress of the' team can be noted by''a’.glance, at the season’s scores. After much ragged playing in the early - games, the team seemed .to gain momentum for the major games. The play­ers were at their peak against Georgetown and Notre Dame. Their performances in these/.two games ranked them among the leading teams of the county. After this_ terrible grind, a let-up was unavoidable and the relaxation in the N. Y. U. game brought no discredit to the squad.Tartans Set Fast Pace The season opened at Youngs­town and after a sloppy game the Tartans emerged on the long end of a 32 to 6 score. Carnegie showed great power at times but Were only a mere shadow of their real strength. Karcis proved to the followers that he was a great line plunger and a stone wall on the defense. Moorehead showed great improvement, over his show­ing of the previous year, giving promise of developing into a great ball-carrjer.
The second game was against Ashland. Displaying a fine brand of football the Tartans rang up a 65 to 0 triumph. Karcis continued his steam-i'oller attack through the 
holes his teammates opened in the Ashland line. Red Kennedy pro­vided the thrills of tins game with a brilliant run of 65 yards. Harp­ster played his usual game, which means his generalship and passing were above the average. Although Ashland had defeated two promi­nent Ohio teams they were out­classed and proved little opposition to the powerful Carnegie offense. First Important Game Is W.-J. The first major game of the year was against Wash-Jcff, and \vas won 19 to 0. In this game Carnegie dismissed the jinx which had been hanging over their ath­letic relations for the last eight years. Again Harpster stood out like a beacon light in a lonely mountain section. This does not mean that the rest of the starting lineup which included Sweet, Schmidt, Loyewell, Melziener, Dre- sliar, Highberger, Rosetmveig, Let- zeltcr,. Eyth, and Karcis did. not play WeiP'f6r~'£ficy riot' pihTy'smoth- ered evpry play the visitors started but succeeded in battling down the opposition until they could no longer resist the powerful Tech offense. In this gantc the line showed its best football to this date, for only the powqr. plats were used so the more deceptive plays would surprise Pitt, George­town and the rest.
Almost a Downfall Our fifth game of the past sea­son was against Pitt whom we de­feated 6-0. This game was bitterly contested from start to finish but a little relaxation seemed to have taken place in the team, A muddy field handicapped both teams, but especially Tech, due to their par­ticular style of play. Pitt played a seven man line against Tech, while Carnegie resorted to its Usual six man defense. Pitt’s seven man line, while especially strong in power plays, is weak against forward passes. Harpster put the game in the fcag for Tech late in the fourth quarter by tossing two beautiful passes to Shaughnessy. Pitt showed a powerful offense in mid-field, but when the ball was in Carnegie's own territory, its de­fense stiffened and the Panthers were unable to score.J he sixth game, in which our opponents were from Georgetown, was played in Albany. Again Car­negie was victorious and the fol­lowers of":the .team came back re­joicing over a 13-0 score. The entire Tech team seemed to click tor the first time and although Georgetown * was the strongest team we had met they were out­played .in every department of the game. Rosenzweig finally mastered the art of running the end around play, and considerable, yardage and one touchdown resulted from this, 
r in5'S’ tally’s barreled bodied fullback, was practically unstoppa­ble on tjie offense and in backing up the line he and Dreshar stand out as two of the best in college ranks.
Notre Dame Falls Behind
The seventh, and perhaps the greatest game from any standpoint, was the game against Notre Dame at South Bend, against whom the 
team continued its winning stride. Before the game was five minutes old Tech had illustrated they were at their peak by scoring two touch­downs. In the third play of thegame Rosenzwieg caught a short pass from Harpster and ran sixty yeards before he was stopped. On the next play Letzelter tore through the line for twenty yards and Car­negie’s first score. Four minutes ater -Harpster added another on a line play. Rosenzweig ran the end around play on the next touch­down and Letzelter added thefourth and last after catching ashort pass from Harpster. Thescore^ 27-7 does not illustrate the last Thursday afternoon in the au- Notre Dame scored their' touch­down on a Tech fumble shortly after the second half started. The game, if it did nothing else, helped to prove that the 1926 game was no fluke and it can not be said they lost because Rockne was not
With no raise in the usual $15 for activities and athletic contests, and $5 for breakage, Carnegie Tech 
students,will be able to attend ten varsity, and several freshmen foot­ball games in the Pitt Stadium next season, announces Clarence Over- cnd, graduate manager of athletics.
Although he has not made any 
arrangement yet with regard to the financial income of the stadium, Jie has definitely closed an agree­ment with W. Don Harrison, ath­letic director at Pitt, that students from both institutions will be able to attend each other’s home games during their joint* co-operative use of the stadium
The agreement made between 
the athletic departments of both schools is planned for a period of 15 years.The football schedule for next 
Beason is not completed, but prob­ably will be within the next two weeks. There are, however, five games already scheduled for the stadium: Thiel, October 5; Wash- Jcff, October 19; Notre Dame, Oc­tober 26; Pitt, Novgmbcr 16, and 
New York University, November 
28.Overend Gives Comment 
In commenting on this arrange­ment, Graduate Manager Overend says: “In the future it will not be difficult to get together and ar­range our schedules to suit the general public of Pittsburgh. By 
this joint use of the Pitt Stadium between Carnegie and Pitt, the general public will come to the games every Saturday, and no con­
flicts in local'football interests will take place.“The boys on the football teams will have more games away from l-ome than in previous seasons, more traveling and will be rer lieved from continual home playr 
ing."Students will have the advaiir tage of the combination student 
book, which both .schools will honor at the stadium.“Combined application blanks have been sent to the general alumni of Carnegie and Pitt, and these applications are being filled out and returned daily. Also, the parents of the students are. get­ting in on this plan.”A tentative schedule of the games to be played at the stadium 
next season follows:Sept. 28__Pitt vs. WaynesburgOct. 5______Carnegie vs. ThielOct. 12__Pitt vs. West Virginia Oct. 19-Carnegie vs. Wash-Jeff Oct. 26_Carnegie vs. frjotre DameNov. 2___.-Pitt vs. Ohio State
Nov. 9_____Pitt vs. Washr-JeffNoy. 16~Pitt vs. Carnegie Tech Nov. 23___Carnegie (Opponent Undecided)
Nov. 28___Pitt vs. Ponn State
fourteen Varsity Cagers 
Prepare For Tough Card
Tfhree-Oame Series With Panthers Is Leading Attraction On 16-Game Schedule.
With a schedule of 16 games and a crew of 14 men before liitfl. Coach John Irwin, Carnegie cage 
mentor, is now going through the ordeal of trying to forip a quin­
tet which will grind out a success­ful season.Tartan basketcers have been warming up to the hoop for the past two weeks and three weeks of practice remain before them prior to their initial encounter of the 1929 season, January 4, when 
they meet the Waynesburg five on a foreign floor. Fourteen men are out for honors, six of whom were members of last year’s squad.Captain White Returns The return of Harvey White in the capacity of captain, greatlyenhances the Skjbo outlook. He was a member of the varsity squads of ’27 and ’28 and comes back to show, his wares tit for­
ward. Wayne High rejoins the Tartan team to take the guardposition which he held last year, •and when Julian Bond showed lip to reclaim his post at center cage followers set their hopes high for prospective glories in the coming season. Eph Crum will play his third year on the Tech squad this year and is expected to work at a forward position, and two valu­able forwards of the 1928 squad,Bob Kilgore and Bill Brown, willbe back at their posts,. Other candidates who should prove to be good material are: Ralph Mer­ton, center; Marvin Fox, guard or center; George Nease, guard; Ar­thur Weiss, forward, and Jim Traa, guard.
Schedule Sixteen Games The 1929 schedule includes a list of 16 games with nine of the outstanding quintets of the east. Pitt leads the schedule with three games, two of which will be played at the Pitt stadium. The first clash with the Panthers comes within a week after the first game of the season, January 11, and return games will be played Jan­uary 23 and February 26.
Fivq teams have two dates on the schedule. They are West Vir­ginia, Wash-Jeff, Penn State, West­minster and Geneva. The last 
games of the season will be played at Buffalo and Niagara, when the Skibos entrain for games with the University of Buffalo March 1 and 
University of Niagara March 2. The 1929 schedule follows:Jan. 4----------Waynesburg, awayJan. 5------West Virginia, awayJan. 8-----------Geneva, at homeJan. 11-----------------Pitt, stadiumJan. 12----------Penn State, awayJan. 16------------Wash-Jeff, awayJan. 23------ ---------Pitt, at homeJan. 25—Westminster, at homeJan. 30-----------------Geneva, awayFeb. 13---------Westminster, away
Feb. 16------Penn State, at home
RIFLE
This year’s rifle season is open* 
ing with a bigger turnout of \v6in* 
en than has ever been known in 
the W. A. A. history at Carnegie. 
Over 70 first year women have 
registered for the sport, a num­ber of whom will be a great fac­tor in filling the gap let I by the graduate participants in the sport.The rifle range, which has been in the process of repair for the last few weeks, is now ready for use and is in excellent condition. With tjie exception of four wom- en, the entire squad of last year will again be out for practice.Isabelle Sheppard, M. M. ’29, manager, urges all of last year's women who are still interested in the sport to conic out for the next practice, With the abund­ance of new material and six of the varsity teams of ten returning, it is expected that the rifle , squad will be in fine shape to meet the hard competition which will be offered by the ten teams already carded.
BASKETBALL
The small turnout for basketball has been far below the usual nunjr bcr of contenders at the. opening of the season. The junior class has fewer defendants than cither the sophomore or freshmen squads. With the unbeaten record which women of the class of 1929 hold, it is certain that this year’s inter­class competition will be more 
pointed than . ordinarily, The honor of the class hangs in thp outcome of this year’s games, since the present -seniors have
Captain Howard Harpster, lower, and Captain Alec Fox, of the Pitt Panthers, above, Have accepted invitations to play in the an­nual post-season EastrWegt football tussle at San Francisco, Decem­ber 29. Coach Andy Kerr ot Wash-Jeff along with Dick Hanley, Northwestern coach, are in charge of the Eastern team which also includes Mike Getto, Pitt’s all-American tackle.
HARPSTER TO PLAY
IN EAST-WEST TILT
Three Pittsburgh football play­ers will be found on the all-East team in thp annual East-West game at San Francisco December 29. Captain Howard Harpster, Carnegie’s alLÁmerican quarter­back, with Captain Alec Fox, guard, 'and Mike Getto, alKAmerr- ¡can tackle of the Pitt Panthers have consented to play for Andy Kerr, Wash-Jcff coach, and Dick Hanl.ey, Northwestern coach, who wiir-select and coach- the Eastern squad. ¦
These men, who have been chosen , because , ,* their stellar work during the past season, will meet a select YVest team in a game to be played for the. benefit of the1 Cripple Children's Hospital ofrvSan-- Francisco.¦Jri addition to Harpster, Fox and Gcttp, the followipg players have been selected: Ken Strong,Barrabce, New' York University; Thompson, I-afayette; Ilaycraft and Gibson, Minnesota; Howejl and McMullen, (. Nebraska; Pohimeren- in'g, .Michigan; Nowar.k, Illinois,; and Raskpwskij Ohio St;,itc,
TO HOLD ANNUAL GRID 
BANQUET JANUARY 12
Carnegie’s athletic department will honor the Tartan football squad at the annual grid banquet January 12, at 1 o'clock in the William Penn Hotel. The Varsity Clan and the Pittsburgh Clan will coroperate with the athletic depart­ment to pay homage to one of the greatest football teams in the history of Carnegie Tcch.In recognition of the record the team lias compiled this, season, gold footballs will be awarded to all lcttermen, according to Grad­uate Manager Overend. Each football will be engraved with the score “27 to 7", Carnegie’s margin over Notre Dame.Among those who will attend the banquet are Coach Steffen, Assistant Coach Wa’ddell,' Dr. Marks, team physician; A1 Trwin, basketball coach; Bob Allison,- frosh coach; Bert Munhall, trainer, and Graduate Manager Ovcrcnd. Varsity managers and the mem­bers,of the frpsliijian team, will also be. invitRd, Students - and alumni numbers may attend far a .npmipali charge.
Feb. 20-------Wash-Jeff, at homeFeb. 22_West Virginia, at homeFeb. 26—-------------Pitt, stadiumMar. 1-------U. of Buffalo, awayMar. 2-------U. of Niagara, away
there.; In fact, it would not have mattered^ much if Rockne had gone on the field and called the signals himself for his badly battered squad.^The Thirteen Jinx at LastThe last contest of the, season proved to -bo the: first defeat of thp entire season. Tcch took its downfall.‘op the chin from New York University 27-13, Carnegie was outplayed and have the sat­isfaction of knowing that it was a great team which beat them, but they were not tlie same team that .overcame iNotreT Dame and George* ;town. The team wasn't set for the battle mentally and this doesn’t mean that tlie team was1 cocky or over-confident, for they were not, It is hard to rise up for two games in weekly succession, which the Tartans previously had done with little difficulty, but this one proved too many. Tech took the lead early in the game when Sweet scored the. first after catching a pass ‘from Harpster.
Things' looked pretty good for a little while until 'Strong got. started, but this was not until the second half, for the.best N. Y. U. could do in the opening half was to tie the score in the last minute by completing a forward. In the second half Strong, who had al­ready been picked as one of Harp’ sterrg. teammates on the mythical 
All-American eleven, ran wild and scored two touchdowns for the visitors. In the second half, Car­negie resorted to an aerial attack which netted them six more points. Harpster should- receive due men­tion for his- heroic work in the last two periods. With an injury which would have kept a less cour­ageous player on the side lines, he < tbssed twenty-six passes of which twenty were completed. These, however, proved to be fruit­less for the Violet team again came into possession of the ball and threw a pass for the last marker of the afternoon's battle. A few minutes‘later the whistle blew end­ing the most successful season in the history of Plaid athletics.
The Campus Scout
(Continued from page 4)
back from last year and surely they have learned something since the first game last year. Captain 
White, an expert guard, .is back. But at that, some over to the 
Pitt Weekly office any time dur­ing the next few weeks and we will gobble up all the sheklcs you Tartans have to place on the SIcibo passers in their trio of battles against the Pitt Panthers. It seems that the Carnegie cagers have their hands full when they book Pitt for three games.The first time your scoutever saw a Carnegie basket­ball team play was in his highschool days, when Coach Ben
Lubic brought his Tartan five
down to Beaver Falls to take on Geneva, The Covenanters are an annual fixture on the Scotch cage schedule. When Coach Irwin invades Beaver Falls this year he had better be prepared for a real tuasle. Ken Loeffler, former Penn State College star and captain, who recently captained the Morry Five, is now coaching Geneva. This is his first year as a college mentor and with the excellent material he has on hand, will make it hot for any team that faces the Cove­nanters this season.
As the Carnegie student body slowly made its way put of Forbes 
Field after N. Y. U, game, little did it realize that it had seen its team' perform at the Pirate ball 
park for the last time for the next 15 years. For next year, Pitt 
starts playing host to Carnegie and her team. You can rest a?* sured that the Pitt athletic heads are merely sharing their bowl only 
to be accommodating. The benefits derived by both institutions arc great. Mr. Harrison of the Pan­ther athletic department, deserves much credit, and Pitt should be glad to get a team of Carnegie Tcch's caliber to play half their games in the Pitt bowl.Since this is the only chance 
your scout will get to force his comments on the Carnegie students, he takes great pleas­ure in thanking *'Stew” Ralston and Tom Lippert for the op­portunity. While we are here the writer wishes to say hello to Mr. Overend and thanks him for all the past favors he has been so kind to do for the Pitt Weekly sports staff. We 
hope Coach Steffen does not lose a game next year, but wait, his boys play Pitt. Well, we hope he wins them all but the Pitt game, and we just couldn’t go back on our friend, 
Jock Sutherland.
Arrange Attractive 
Schedule For Skibo 
Rifle Aggregation
Carnegie’s interest in her rifle teams of past Reasons returns with the opening of the varsity and freshman practice in the basement of Margaret Morrison Carnegie College, The range has been im­proved and the selection of mem­bers of both teams is being made during the practice session.A tentative schedule, one of the most attractive ever arranged for the Tartan shooters, has been ar­ranged and includes many eastern colleges. The following, meets have 
been arranged to be shot over the wires: Kansas College, LelandStanford University. California IJni-
I WOMEN’S ATHLETICS I
been the intcr-cluss champions since their freshman year.Practices started last week, the gym being open on Tuesday and Thursday afternoons after 4:30 o’clock. If there are a sufficient number of women who want to practice after dinner until 8 o'clock, they can obtain permis­
sion by notifying any member oí the W. A. A. board.SWIMMING
The swimming practices will be held during each registered class period, was the announcement made by Dorothy Lynch, Arts, '29, manager, There will also be prac­tices every Tuesday at 11:30, Miss Lynch states that it is imperative tliat the women who are in he water during the freshmen class periods report either to her or to the instructor in charge. This is necessary to assure the women that they will bo given credit for having attended the practice, the record of which is essential in the determination of activities recog­nition.
Manager Bronson Dickering With Noire Dame for Meet at South Bend, Ind.
Carnegie Tech swimmers are practicing daily at, the pool in an “Hurt to qualify for the Tartan rarsity and frosh teams.Coach Allen Rcisdorf is pushing his men in preparation for an ex­tensive schedule of meets this sea­
son. Arrangements, arc being made for the swimmers to meet Alle­gheny and Thiel in two dual meets in foreign pools, One long trip for the season Is being planned by W. I). Bronson, varsity man­ager, who Is dickering with Notre Dame for a match. The Irish are pretty well booked up with cou- ‘‘~:rcnce but Bronson hopes to ar-
versity, Georgetown, George Wash­ington University, University of Pittsburgh, Penn State, Pennsyl­
vania, West Virginia, V. P. I., and V. M. I.Starting January 19. tlie Tartan team will stage four or five meets each week, according to H. C. Diltz, varsity manager of the squad.Prospects are bright for another' stellar rifle team, although many members of last year’s team have not as yet reported for practice. In several practice meets the rlflcrs have come through in good shape and will be all set for the season’s opener January 19.
Three mainstays of last year's squad have returned. Captain Leo 
Kase|iagen, Tom Lippert, and W. D. Bronson arc training daily on .the range. With this nucleus and a large group of plebe shots of Jast year the Tartans will have ¡\ formidable aggregation. Several R. O. T. C. nten who attended camp 
this summer are making a strong bid for berths on the varsity. .1 Calls are being made on all bul­letin boards throughout t|ie campus for Plebe rifle and manager candi­dates. They arc urged to report in the basement of M. M. C. C. where practice is being held every 
afternoon from 3;30'to 5;30 o’cldck, and Saturday jnornings.
Schoen Publishes Text: 
Writes Scientific Papers
"Psychology,” a new text-book by Dr. Max Schoen, head of the psychology department, will ap­pear as a Harper publication next summer. It_ will .stress not only the .pure principles or psychology but also the function and opera­tion of these same principles in daily lifp, Dr. Schopu will have another scientific treatise, “Review of Aesthetic Literature since 1900,’’ published in the Psychological Bul­letin soon.Three other distinctive inter­pretations. by _Dr. Schoen, will ap­pear in prominent scientific joiir- nals. MThe Aesthete Attitude in Music" in the Psychological .Re­view; “Instinct and Man” in, the Scientific Monthly; and “The Fuue- tion of Art” in the Porsonalist, University of California publica­
tion.
The Way 
to Independence
T|\a suropt piothnd of uttiiln- 
lng finnnnlnl inilopoiutcnco lu 
tlu-ouuli ByHiumuttu iuivIiir, buinm 
fiurly. Iuatcad at tlio fn|no 
th|it muHofi you micrlflco muiih 
Impalinomi, thu right kipd of nuv- 
intc, uurrlcd on mrulurly over ¡i 
poi-ipd of your«, will provldo tho 
monnii for Impphiós« now an 
well ith In tlm future.
A iinvliiKn iu!OQ\int nt the 
Mellon National Bank paya 
4 «/?> Intoriiit compounded 
ijonii-aiuiunlly.
Mellon National Bank
Pills Pa.
a®
P3V| I ENROLL NOW
• A V AO for second half of first semester. Be­
ginners or advanced students may enter'at any time for private les­sons in Piano, Voice, Violin, Organ or Expression. 30 Brunch studios.
PITTSBURGH MUSICAL INSTITUTE, INC.
m-i:iil BKLLEFIELD AVENUE. PA,
Coach A1 Reisdorf Pushes 
Tartan Swimmers In Drill 
For Coming Tank Contests
range a meet.
The vat's¡ty tankers lost only one man last year. Captain Wray. With Captain Hobe and Beech back, things look promismg for a good season. Bcech is an export diver and last year did not lose a contest as a member of the Plebe team. Hornbostel and Basler are two good divers who will give the Tartans one of the best diving aggregations'' in the district,Meets havu been arranged with Wooster, Case, and a home meet­ing with Pitt has been carded.\Vork has begun on the frosh swimming schedule. Sqhenlcy or Peabody high school will be" met in the opener, January 19, in tlie Carnegie Tech pool. University School at Cleveland and McKinley high school of Canton \\\ a home match will be met. The frosh have been practicing for one month and are fast rounding into shape. Coach Reisdorf has not selecied his team and frosh can still conic out for the ‘ team _ every Monday, Wednesday and Friday pv«r at the pool.
Gay Bouffant 
Dance Frocks 
$25
This is the time of year when one 
doesn’t feel like spending much 
money on one’s self, and yet it’s the 
time when holiday festivitites al­most demand a new frock or two.
Here are just the dresses!
Frocks of moire with graceful dip­
ping, ruffled skirts ....
Frocks of printed taffeta, some 
with tiers of tulle over the 
skirts ....
Frocks of Gros de Londres which 
suggest the princess silhouette___
Basques of shirred satin overskirts of billowing tulle ....
These and many others, in lovely, 
youthful evening shades. Sizes 14 to 20
•— Second Floor —
Joseph Horne Co.
May Y« « r
lie sa s
r f * t nt a «
E It 11 Y
as y « «i li si. V e ana a at ©
A year ago oi.lt <;oa,J>\s holiday KiiestMSige to its man? 
friends wan untitled . * . wOll> «OMi’S firHt CIiriHlinaN.’ 
OLD (»«mi wan tlteu JunI the Infant prodigy among ciga­
rettes. llut, thanks <o Uh three million new friendt*9 anil 
11« iiountlcNH old ones, oij» iiiOl.it haw grown four hundred 
per «enU The infant IiaN become a «trapping young giant, 
Ol.n (jltl.lt 1m America’* faistoNt growing cigarette. Yon 
have given out (>oi.n a wonderful ChristinaN l»y youv 
kind patronage and cordial good-will. And In deepen! 
appreciation we nay to all our friend» ... “May your 
ChrlHtman lie as merry as you have made out goi»’S.w
We tliank you.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, DECEMBER 11, 192S.
PHONE MAYFLOWER 3600 
Published one« every week durlne the 
rollejio year by undergraduates oi Carnetrie 
Jnntitut* of Technology. Entered In the 
J'ittiburzh Post Office nn '.econd-dnss matter.
THE STAFF 
Editor-in-Chief—Stewart C. RalstonPlaid Editor___Edw. E. McDonaldAlumni Editor-------Charles R. NelsonBusinesr Manager—James H. SeibertAdvertising Mgr-----Robert H. WehrleCirculation Mgrs..—.Michacl Malinich Carl Blass
Office—Room 12, Industries Building. Of­
fice Hour«—Monday to Thursdays, 12:30, 
3:20, Paper mndo up Friday, 12:30-6:00.
To insure publication on the cucccodlnR 
Tuesday. newu items munt be in the student 
post offico or Tnrtan Office before 4:30 
Thursday.
After oflic* hours, call—
_Oakmont 567-W 
..Mayflower 8321
Plaid Editor_____________________Atlantic 1800
_____________________Bchenley 2*89
—..Schenloy 9211 
„.Schenley 9082
Editor-.
Business Manager--------
Advertising Manager.-
EDITED BY THE STAFF OF
THE PITJ WEEKLY
William C. Pettit-......... ..............................Editor
Wm, Niles Anderson_News Editor
Irene Ravi teli____Managing Editor
ASSOCIATES
W. S. Borland J. L. SolomanN. L. Park J. B- BenkertStan Goodman C. H. KennyMilton Susman Roy Hamlin
Florence Luman Betty Hill Naoma Ericson 
Bereniece Greer Alex Kann Robt. Machcsney Ben Sufrin .Ted Savage
Margaret Segal 
' V. C. Showers 
C. H. Voss 
Nathan Weisman 
V. H. Fris . 
James Patterson 
Robt. Remaley
ASSISTANTS
Elliot Finkle Bessie Rader
Edward Foote Margt. ReinherrElaine ¡»raker Edith Raschen
Bernice Gillette TT„_____ xrGoldyc Glick 5, c , MaEramLouise Hirsh 01Ka SekcyPaul Kulick Edward Sherrcr
Virginia Lewis John'Smoyer
LET’S END IT NOW
The recent presentation to Stu­dent Council of a petition signed by more than 800 students who ask the continuation of Campus Week may result in definite action on the annual question of spring student festivities. President- Stauf­fer, of Student Council, has prom­ised action on the petition after Christmas holidays.Wf like the attitude of students in bringing the issue before the school once again. We only ask that the problem be decided pro or con once and for all. That such a question has no need to recur each year to be the subject of cmbatlled controversy between council and faculty is evicent. The trouble over Campus Week should not occupy pcrenially the chambers of campus solons.The reason for our attitude is simple. We heartily believe that to discuss and re-discuss each year the same question is wasted effort. Unlike taxes and tariff, Campus Week need not be made the sub­ject of annual controversy. More­over, we are interested ii. the goo/1 relations which we think should exist between Student Council mem­bers and faculty and administration and which can be broken by such discussion each year as now takes place. Continual, strife over the Campus Week question will result some fine spring in a serious rift on the campus.No better decision on the ques­tion can be handed down next year or in the future. Time will not change the mind: of student mem­bers when there is no indication of their forgetting the festivities of past years. The petition which they have just presented is evi­dence of that fact.If then there is to be a definite decision on Campus Week after the holidays, as the President of Student Council has intimated, let the decision be binding for all time._ The Campus Week question put in somewhat the words of .a famous orator would ring: Giveus settlement or -wholly abolish it; evasion of the issue or indecision in action is fatal.
JUST GIVING UP
Without demonstration by either plebes or sophomores, the period of plebe regulations for the year ends today. It was supposedly a strenuous period and on that score those in charge of regulations jus­tify the early discontinuance of rules for the current year. During Christmas vacation it is supposed that the plebes will "orientate" themselves to the student life of the school with an attitude amount­ing to gusto and dispatch.
The period of sophomore control over first year men ends much too early. The plebes have barely had time to know what the situation means. In a period of less than three months’ time they are sup­posed to^ have received the treat­ment which plebes in other years could not absorb in seven months' time. ^ Something is wrong.
It is with a defeatist spirit that the committee in charge of regula­tions gives up the cherished rules period. Without ceremony or dem­onstration, the sophomores an­nounce the freedom of the plebe. Where before the event was marked with condcscention of sophomore leaders now it is barely noted as a passing news note. It evidently means little to give the plebes someone to thank and something to be thankful for.
But off-campus too there is a result.
To Pitt with its abandoned regu­lations the early abolition of rules on the Tartan campus is something of a blow. To it and to any at­tempts made lor the establishment of freshman rules, the pessimistic action of the Plaid cohorts might prove disastrous.*****
In the early abandonment of plebe regulations this year, we rccognize uppermost the 'fact that i-fee nrst-year men expected a larger
We bemoan the fate of the columnist. The object oí all sorts of outlandish demands from his readers (such as there are), he is most venomously flayed by them if he attempts to act like a biped. He cannot color his observations with emotion without being brand­ed sentimental; he must not re­spond normally to something that has impressed him unless he wishes to be labelled inane; he cannot even steal a rapture or two on the sacred clientele without a murmur of critical voices that slowly develops into a monotonous hiss, "Journalistic gew - gawsl” “Lotta gush,” “Filling space,’’ shouts the dear public as it slings the paper into the corner intend­ing to use it next morning to wrap papa’s lunch.
Well, maybe the dear public is right. But right or wrong, it is the dear public’s fault that column­ists arc the abnormal, perverted, carnivorous creatures they arc. Ad it is our critical and back­biting readers who must answer, for example, for the savage thrill we sensed as we placed foot upon the “level” soil , of this landofHarp- ster trees and Rosenzweig bushes. Sighs of relief were not unplcnti- ful as we. forsook the knob upon which our fostering mother was built years ago by the Zoobi cliff dwellers for this fertile table-land where boys in bare knees play mu­sic. Though we have been in this
period of control. They may not have done so with any degree of satisfaction but the fact remains that they probably did desire this longer period. Now we have a defeat of planned outcomes and the consequent dissatisfaction re­sulting thereform. If their actions are any indication, the plebes need more regulation. Prominent mem bcrs of the class have violated the edicts of sophomore guardians; it is rumored that even the class president may have some difficulty 
on this score.If regulations are dropped at this early date, wisdom demands that sophomores make something of the event. To attempt the enforce­ment of rules for a period such as they have and, then to abandon them without so much as giving the plebes a chance to murmur thanks is failing to make the best of an opportunity. _If the situation is such that the abandonment of regulations is deemed necessary then bring on the end. But it would seem more in line with the vaunted _ “regu­latory” spirit of the Carnegie hosts to continue at least in part these rules for which the newspapers of the city find ample cause to play up on the slightest provocation as being worthy of good news space, and for which the Plaid hosts are widely known.
A PROBLEM
A junior at Dartmouth College imbued with the call of the wild and a displeasure with modern so­ciety has bid goodbye to his col­lege and gone to begin life anew in the' woods. How long he will stay there he has not said.To all of us at some time or other comes a dislike for the life we lead. We may not follow the course of the Dartmouth junior in o\xf quest for the different. Yet the desire for self-expression or solitude is nevertheless strong. Like the Dartmouth student, we may see about us "professors— pale-faced, eyes glazed, truly hope­less; students—dull, tired, yawning, chafing at the system they are en­tangled in." We may dislike the system of mass education, the grasping of college presidents for bigger endowments, the life that offers^ us no real enjoyment.It is good at such times to re­member that of our number there are those who delight in their work and see in the future a happy goal. Our lives depend upon us to make them what they are.
HERE YOU ARE, FOLKS
What’s it all about anyway? Here Carnegie Tech students find their campus newspaper edited by Pitt students. Last week the Pitt campus saw the appearance of its weekly under the tutelage of* Car­negie journalists.There is no need to justify the change of student news staffs. The ork which they have done in handling the affairs of another's paper has meant to them not only a change from tb? routine of theii own papers, but has given them an opportunity to work under con­ditions unfamiliar to them and thereby test the organization of each staff.Athletes, debaters, glee clubs and like organizations visit other schools to display their wares. It is with s-mewhat this purpose that the staffs of The Tartan and The Weekly approached their work, En­dorsed by the heads of both schools the exchange o( staffs aids in the building up of good relationships between the two neighboring insti­tutions.
And so when they ask us what it is all about and what the idea of exchange is we don’t answer right off. Instead we think of the work of The Tartan staff at Pitt and the interest of Carnegie in us poor Pitt scribes.
CREDIT WHERE DUEThe sporting editor of a local daily has written in glowing and fitting terms of the two nationally famous football teams of Carnegie and Pitt. He brought the unusual fact that there is no one other city in the country boasting of two such teams as those of Carnegie and the Panthers.
He was right and we are glad that he recognizcd a situation in the field whereof he writes. But outside^ his field and off the foot­ball gridiron there is to be noted and commended the high ratings of these schools in. scholastic pursuits. The scholastic standards of the faculties, the physical equipment and the cultural attitude of the two schools is more worthy of note than that they had two ex­cellent football elevens—however highly ‘he latter may be extolled.
new world but 2. few hours, we' 
must confess, with due respect to 
our alma mater up in the cliffs 
across the avenue, that we are 
glad to have had the opportunity to see other parts of a building than the roof. We have become so accustomed to birdeseye views that the normalcy of it all has 
made us dizzy.'X' >t‘Nor was it easy for us to for­sake our role of mountain goat for this brief respite. After hav­ing grazed so long at 5267 feet above sea level, we experienced untold nasal congestions and throat disorders as we descended into the bogginess characteristic of Pitts­burgh down here nearer civiliza­tion. Indeed, no sooner did we enter Industries’ Building than we unconsciously dashed to the top floor only to find that the Tartan office was luxuriously situated in in the cellar. Cliff dweller» will 
be cliff dweHers^^
The citizens of this community must bear the community stamp or other mark of recognition; for as soon as we entered the official boundaries, somebody smelled the blood of an infidel. In fact, a certain individual who wore a black tie and a funny little cap that was many sizes too small for him,- approached us and blandly remarked that Pitt profited by the swap. We agreed with the unripe fruit, telling him that we dickered also for Prexy Baker and $5,000 cash, but the deal fell through.
But our colleagues have really 
labored to produce a sheet that will make the genuine article proud to be called by the name it bears. They have worked unstintingly to give the dear public full value for the money, and have barred noth­ing but vermilion headlines and airplane views of SNchenley Oral. And they necessarily hope that the boys and girls in plaid, and especially the esteemed faculty, faculty, will deal less harshly with their efforts than a certain Eng­lish instructor in a western school did recently with the official or­gan of that institution. He assign­ed to all his freshman English classes the happy task of picking the school paper apart and tabulat- in the shortcomings. Out of a seeming profound esteem for the editor, the first-year weanlings fell to their work with the alacrity oi an airdale pouncing upon a frag­ment of round-steak (unground). As a result the editor thought a lot of evil thoughts and muttered many unkind mutterings about the instructor who had his goslings tear* the journalist limb from limb. There was no blood-shed, how­ever, and the school still stands.
They are extremely naive out West. At Ohio University the campus highlights are up i;i arms over the administration’s objections to student-driven cars. The stu­dents feel that their sense of pro­portion is being insulted by the 
worthy authorities who have their charges do their gallivanting on foot. The editor of the "Green and White,” who probably drives his own LaSalle, is especially indig­nant and expresses his vexation thus:"Here, at Ohio University, stu­dents are permitted to drive their own cars. Thus far, authorities have had no cause for dissatisfac­tion. It may be that driving a car while in school takes a little time for recreation. However, opportunity for such a pleasant pastime can also give added im­petus to a student’s scholastic standing. A student’s parents will very rarely let hi in keep a, car at school unless he is attaining an average of scholastic standing.”It certainly is nice of the editor to feel this way about so ticklish a problem, though he may find in time that his philosophy is of the swiss-checsc variety..c1o15Mv vAf151o15The late Christy Mathewson would rest uneasily in his sarco­phagus if he knew what was going on at his alma mater. A new fra­ternity has been founded at Buck- nell—Sigma Mu Mu, by name—by the inmates of Zeigler Memorial Infirmary, to which membership is exclusive. The perquisites for ad­mission to this sacred order are novel, if a bit grotesque: Resi­dence in the infirmary one week at least; a temperature of 100 de­grees af^some time during one’s residence in the infirmary, and a definite pulse rate to be determin­ed by the Grand Akron. Another coup d’etat among the Greeks.
If any of you Plaid ladies and gentlemen have tried to see your­selves as others see you, you will appreciate some pointed observa­tions which appeared in a recent issue of a current periodical. A member of the freshman class at Pembroke College, Mirium, Ber- ma, who was born in Russia and educated at Palestine, chronicles her criticisms of American educa­tional institutions with sufficient finesse to startle the most indiffer­ent American college student. She states that students here worry too much about their grades and not enough about the general benefit they are deriving. She finds also that the professor and his lectures are much to blame for this condition. There seems to be no effort to introduce new, stimu­lating elements into- class work. From year to year, in American colleges, the students keep expect­ing the professor to put them to sleep; and the professbr in turn expects to be confronted with a bunch of nincompoops. Since both elements live up to their expec­tations, no change is wrought This young observer contends that our colleges need new blood; new blood in students to respond to courses that are really interesting and new blood in professors to give their classes something in response. Whether the remedy of this Pembroke scholar is adequate is hard to say; that the diagnosis is sound, however, is beyond ques­tion.
But we have had our say, dear public, and have said nothing. But what can a cliff dweller accomplish without his cliffs? Many thanks, however, for your indulgence; and even though your money cannot be refunded at the box office, we slink back to our hilly haunts with a good opinion of the Scotch.
JUST NOSING AROUND
THINK IT OVER
The most precious thing a stu­dent lias in his four years of col­lege is his leisure. This leisure, however, is so cut into by athletic, social and other extra-curricular activities that what little spare time he may have left is necessary to aid in his recuperation from the effects of a strenuous athletic or social season.
Probably at no time before or after his' collegiate life will a stu­dent have so much available time to improve himself intellectually. There should be a concerted at­tempt to place some limit on ath­letic, fraternity and social intru­
sions upon the student’s time. The most priceless possession a school can have is not an unbeaten foot­ball team, or beautiful grounds, or a Cathedral of Learning, or price­less equipment, or a heavy endow­ment. The spirit of the school would seem to lie in the utter free­dom of thought and discussion.
A recent incident in Pittsburgh .attracted the attention of quite a number of people as well as the press. In most cases of this sort the school authorities say that they do not oppose free speech but are simply opposed to the "dissemination of radical propa­ganda.” While this must be true, 
there does not seem to be an equally alert solicitude to prevent the spread of conservative propa­ganda. A well-known economic authority in an eastern university has observed that conservative: propaganda even among members of the faculty, is not only tolerated but more or less encouraged and after a time rewarded.
We must distinguish between freedom of thought and freedom of action. Nearly every one recog­nizes that society must place limits upon action. If one seizes another’s property or violates the personal integrity of another by striking or killing him the law must, of course, step in, sometimes with the aid of psychiatry with possibly a remedial rather than a punitive road. No university is worthy of respect if it places any restrictions upon the
freedom of thought, inquiry and discussion.History, has repeatedly shown, as at the time of the inquisition, that it is those things which the "gen­tlemen running the show” have claimed to be' true should have been subjected to the severest scrutiny. The human mind should rid itself once and for all of the habit of accepting anything, eccles­iastical, political, economic, or any­thing else upon the dogmatic au­thority of anyone.In an idle moment which may occur for the student between the profound important events of the rushing season, some student might consider the thought that it is not a mere accident that the motto of the British Royal Society is "Take nobody’s word for anything.” Rather than authority, ecclesias­tical or political, as a test of truth, everything should be subjected to the test of experiment, verification, and comparison. This is the es­sence of scientific spirit as con­trasted with lawfully constituted dogma in any realm.The nonconformist, the dissenter, the voice in the wilderness, and the heretic may be a very bad creature, but he is never uninterest­ing. And he travels in a dis­tinguished company among them, Christ, who was crucified as a non­conformist dissenter, Socrates, who was compelled to drink poison for corrupting the youth of Athens, Bruno who was consigned to the flames for ecclesiastical heresy, and countless others. It w’ould be idle to suggest that the non­conformist is always right, or even so in a majority of cases; it would be equally difficult to at­tempt ,to maintain that whatever is, is right, or the most expedient meth of doing things.The crucially important thing is this: quite apart from -the ques­tion of accuracy or inaccuracj-, an individual in a university or a democracy should never place the slightest limitation upon the free exchange of ideas, or upon the freedom of thought, inquiry, dis­cussion. and publication.
BLOWN IN THE WIND-
SCHOLASTIC SLEEPING
Two liars tell me they never average more than six hours sleep out of the twenty-four. Anyone who stays awake eighteen hours a day will naturally find time for lying and mischief. Nor do these insomniacs ever do well in their studies.Dr. Sigmund Screamcauld, in his little pamphlet, “Classroom Snooz­ing,” notes this fa.ct:"Every good student I have ever had has slept through all my lec­tures. The wide-awake nuisance is forever chattering, glancing out the window and otherwise disturb­ing the class.”Dr. Screamcauld goes on to say that chronic snoozing is especially necessary for the' proper attitude in social science, philosophy and psychology classes. He explains that sleep is merely “a protective stupor inherited from our savage ancestors who dozed off in times of danger or hardship. We sleep at night because, it was best for them to be quiet at night."And, as the doctor very justly remarks, it is best for the student to be quiet in class.“What better method could be devised for meeting the require­ments of the modern university classroom than this primitive stupor passed down to us from »rehistoric times? The student need only cultivate and adapt his inherited ability to doze."His classroom attitude will im­prove. And out of class, he will be able to cover twice as much material in such subjects as philo­sophy and history. He will be­
come in every respect a more
social creature, less inclined to dis­putation and mischief.”* * * *
A GENTLE THING
"Women also realize the pur­poses to which sleep may be put. They discreetly doze off at amor­ous moments, leave their modesty to Morpheus and the rest to you."
* * * *
YOU’RE ALWAYS RIGHT
I am _ always right. You are always right. He is always right.- We are always right. They are always right.
At times I make mistakes in the expression of my thoughts; but my thoughts are always correct. If, because I have spilled ink on a term paper, I call my kid brother an impudent little puppy dog and shove him downstairs, my words and actions may not express exact­ly what I intend; they are merely my inexact way of expressing the thought that I am vexed at having skilled ink on my term paper.If I refer to a member of the (Pitt) administration as a pig­headed bureaucrat, my statement may not be an absolutely depend­able description. lie may only act like a pig-headed bureaucrat. Or perhaps I am merely trying to say 
that I didn’t enjoy my breakfast.As a matter of fact, I do not believe I referred to any member of Pitt’s administration as a pig­headed bureaucrat in my last week’s column (which the editor saw fit not to publish.) Nor do I recall describing certain mem­bers of Pitt’s student body as spineless porcupines. Those epi­
thets, as a remember, were not
CONTRIBS
To the Editor of The Tartan:
The football programs of Car­
negie Tech could certainly be im­proved. They are a discredit to our school. They are poor in ar­rangement, lacking in information, and superfluous in the number of advertisements. We pay 25 cents for 36 pages, six of which actually contain information regarding the football game. The editor seems to entirely forget that the objeer of a football program is to give information about the avo teams and schools. Perhaps the present football program is not printed lor the benefit of the football fans, but as a commercial means to get moneyl The placing of the lineups- and substitutions is dis­concerting . enough to make one throw away the program in dis­gust. The numbers and positions of the players on the two teams are on different pages separated by another page. At a very ex­citing moment we look down at the program to see which playei is carrying the ball. The program is opened at the opposing lineup If we tear out the offending cen­ter page the book comes apart. Was there ever a more stupid ar­rangement?
The glaring errors of our foot­ball programs may be shown by comparing the publication with that of another school. It might be well for the editor to attend our hilltop neighbor’s football games and buy himself a program. Their football program is actually a football program, not a con­glomeration of advertisements with a scanty, space-crowded lineup, and a few pictures scattered here and there. Songs, yells, cheers and players’ pictures of "both’' schools fill all the pages except the double center page. One side of the double page is allotted to each team. At the top appears, the probable lineup with the names, numbers and positions of the play­ers arranged in actual formation.It certainly is a help to the giris who can never remember the difference between tackle or guard halfback or fullback. Under this, in chronological ' number order come the names, positions, weight, height, age and preparatory school of each substitute. There is no need to turn pages, all the neces­sary information can be gained from a glance at the double cen­ter page. In the center of this sheet there is a space for the score, by quarters, under which is placed the list of officials. This program certainly shames our football programs which have a six by four inch space for the lineup and substitutions, no infor­mation about the opposing team except a scanty lineup and 30 pages 
of advertisements that nobody is interested in.Do we, Carnegie sludents, real­ize that Pitt excels us in having football programs far, far superior ¦to ours.' What are we going to do about it, Tech?
—T. H. P. ’31.
among the expressions I employed.But whatever it was I did say had the right spirit behind it, I feel sure. And yet, the editor was perfectly justified in suppressing it; that was merely his inaccurate way of expressing an accurate truth.He was right. I was right. You were right. As a matter of fact we all were right.
* * * *
RIGHT AGAIN
Which is doubtless only my in­accurate way of saying that I en­joyed my breakfast this morning. Indeed, I feel so genial that I must close my column with some nice though inaccurate expression of good-will, such as referring to the Tech campus as the “Campus of Beautiful Women.”As a matter of fact, there aren’t any more good-looking- women over here than we have at home; but as Aiice Harding points out, 
you see more of them.
BOOKS IN REVIEW
Wc are strangers. Of me you 
know neither age nor sex; neither 
backgrounds nor foibles. Of you I 
know equally little. Vour reading 
may be bounded in the morning by 
the back half of the “Post-Gazette” 
and in the evening by the “Literary 
Digest.” Your favorite may be 
“The Cherry Orchard,” "Lora Jim," 
and ‘"The Faerie Queene.” Who 
knows? But let’s pretend.
Let’s pretend I have a warm room, with comfortable places for sitting, on the hill above Center avenue. My friend Claude has spoken of you, the couple from Carnegie Tech. He sug­gests that I stay at home Saturday evening; with you and his girl friend he will ring the bell at about 8:30. When we have talked awhile, I’ll move behind a screen. There will be coffee, Roquefort sandwiches, and little sugar shells plump with custard.Claude and I have our best mo­ments when^lone. He will say very little after the introductions. Ruby will sit with him, hts hand hover­ing close. You, I understand, are like most "Tech”' students, 1 know: attractive, intelligent, gay on occa­sions, very easy to talk to. Paul and Louise may be your names. Paul studies engineering; he talks vaguely of designing dynamos. Louise would like to be an actress; she majors, however, in dietetics. You are not arty, praise be, but this fall you have learned to find pleasure in the arts Reading, listening, and seeing in­crease your keenness in each other. Claude met you at the International Art Exhibit; he saw you at a sym­phony; he ran into you at the li­brary. lie wants me to know you.I am a booker, as you realize as soon as you have stumbled over a pile of "Vanity Fairs” just inside the door, picked volumes from the chairs to which I have waved you, and seen the mosaic of greens, blues, whites, and browns of my shelves. 
If I am to do much talking, it will be about books. My standards you will find experimental; my attitude, enthusiastic rather than rational.One of you, perhaps Louise, has taken the chair beside the narrow table on which sprawl the things 1 am reading. The jackets are bril­liant; white slips tuft the top of one volume; the titles indicate fic­tion, poetry, biography. One glance of interest, one question, one reach­
ing forth of a hand will loose what is in my head to say. This I write, with loss of spontaneity 
and informality.I."Do you recall the "Vanity Fairs” you stumbled over?” One of the main reasons I buy the magazine is -to read "John Rid­dell’s” book reviews. I’ll ex­plain.Literature is usually a serious business. Witness the dissections of­fered weekly in "The Saturday Re­view of Literature, Books,” "The New York Times Book Review;” witness the brave pleas for sweet­ness and light; witness the English professors’ straightened shoulders and clenched fists at mention of Shakespeare and Wordsworth.Occasionally, however, a jovial in­dividual laughs into the sanctum, juggles books, and haw-hoos at what he reads. He parodies. His fun spreads; our ribs palsy with appre­ciation. But isn’t he harmful? Well, "Mpther India” may suffer in such- burlesque, but I notice no diminu­tion of respect for "The Bridge of San Luis Rey.” To poke fun atbooks and authors is certainly as legitimate as to poke fun at thepresidential flutter, or the antics oi Aimec, or the peddling of ;milk in Alumni Hall. *"John Riddell,” you may have guessed, has something to do with an unorthodox attitude towards books. His real name is said to be Corey Ford, claimed by a celebrated young humorist. In "Meaning No' Offense” (Day, $2), he writes a burlesque survey of the year’spopular books.To the "stoep” of Mrs. Ethel Reader came Trader Riddell hold­ing in his hand “a cluster of brand new Best Seller?.” Mrs. Reader wondered if he could tell her allabout the books, so she would not have to read them. For her Trader t wrote a conversation between Eugene O’Neill and his in­ner self, about a proposed century play; a monologue by “The Man Who Knew Lewis;” an expose of the sex life, crime and desolation in America, in the manner of Kath­arine Mayo; a renovanftn of com­panionate marriage, comparative mar­riage; a William Beebe essay on "Do Fishes Perspire?” And there is more.At least two exhibits must be dis­word."This is a bumptious book, more full of sheer wango and utter pht! than you are likely to find in a day’s march in search of crumpets. . . . The 
mixture of liggish phrasings with sayings so incomparably wog make for a dish that will zigger the appetites of the most ho- hum.”and a poem from the chapter on
Samuel Iioffenstein’s "Poems in 
Praise of Practically Nothing*"
"The curfew tolls the knell of 
parting day;
The lowing herd winds slowly 
o’er the lea;
The plowman homeward plods 
his weary way,
And love is a kick in the slats.”
Caricatures of authors by Covar- 
rubias detract nothing irom the “zig- gering.”
II.Already, I fear, "Books” has lost readers. The scholarly and serious have been irritated; the young and hot-blooded have been bored. But the sound of my voice—ill writing, of course—never wearies my own cars. Later on I may shout loudly enough about another tiook to regain an audience.HI.The most-advertised book of De­cember will probably be Arnold Zweig’s "The Cast of Sergeant Grisella” ’ (Viking, $2.50), chosen by the Book-of-thc-Month Club. YVliat is it?Early in 1917, the eastern front was quiet; Russia was reshaping; the prisoner Grisella wanted to cross 
the. lines to his family. He escaped from caijrp. But it Was winter, and the front was not as close as he had hoped. Forest brigands accept­ed him ; the woman Babka loved him ; they planned his escape in the spring.. He took the name of Pri­vate Bjuscheff, a deserter Avho had wandered for montns behind the German lines.Caught, Grisella was accused of espionage and condemned to die. Then he confessed his identity. He was a simple fellow, likeable, well- featured, willing to work. In his 
case General von Lychow took inter­est. Grischa was innocent of the charge; to shoot him would be in­justice. A few.x legal steps would save him. But the documents came to General Schic Tei./.onn. "The in­dividual is a louse,” was his phil­osophy. For disciplinary reasons, Grischa must die. The individual has nothing to do with justice. The State creates justice. Around Gris- cha’s case then arises a struggle be­tween opposing concepts of civiliza­tion. All mankind is involved. Grischa’s case is a German Sacco- Vanzctti case.The material supporting the story of Grischa is fresh and informative. There was a German side to the war; there were conflicting ideas behind the lines; there was German life reacting to the catastrophe. Of this the war books w : have read have said nothing. And that this is propaganda, 1 can’t believe. I can find, then, at least two reasons for reading “The Case of Sergeant Gris­ella:” the story and the information. Arc there no blemishes? Yes, in common with most continental fic­tion, the book is often weighty and discursive. Do I object? I do not.Perhaps a warning is needed : if you are afraid to be deeply stirred, to lose complacency, avoid this book.IV.The book I am coming to is from the Modern Library. Unless you are acquainted with these small, well- printed, fabrikoid-bound, inexpensive volumes, you “ain’t seen nothin’ yet.” The present list includes 150 titles. Among them are "Tristram Shandy,” "De Profundis,” "Sons and Lovers,” "Zuleika Dobson,” "Jungle Peace,” "Madame Bov-ry.” This is not advertising.V."The Art of Whistler” (Modern Library, $0.95) lias nothing to do with the band piece, "The Whistler and His Dog.” Though there are, I know from experience, individuals unmoved by the name James Abbott M’Ncill Whistler, most readers of this column will rccognize it as that of a famous artist and a famous man. (I admit frightful obvious­ness.) Of his life and art Mrs. Elizabeth Robins 'Pennell, one of his close friends and :3-ai.tnor with her late husband of the "Life of Whist­ler,” has written an account that I do not hesitate to c'\ll absorbing.There arc comma splices, pages of them, but there are also anecdotes and plain statements of fact of a man who once said he Iiad no pri­vate life. People were curious of all he did; and his laugh, his white hat, his letters to the press, his "splashes of paint” were to the last quarter of the nineteenth century what it takes Peggy Hopkins Joyce, Cari Van Vechten, Picasso, and James Joyce to be today.His paintings, however, show that he was more than a public figure. Extreme modernists find in him much to belittle, but no one can deny the serious sincerity with which he manipulated lines, masses, and colors. His "Mother” and "Carlyie” are well known. His “Pablo Sara- sate” hangs in Carnegie Institute. His other works, especially his noc­turnes and etchings, deserve more frequent reproduction. Thirty-two of his paintings, lithographs, etch­ings, and water-colors are shown in aquatone in this book. And unlike most titles in the Modern Library, this is not a reprint, but a book 
especially written for the series.
BULLETIN BOARD
In order that this column may contain a complete list, studeuts in charge of events are asked to co-operate by sending information to Box 407, Campus post office, by Friday noon, preceding the publica­
tion date.TODAY
11:30 A. M.—Special Christmas Chapel in Little Theatre.12 Noon—-Y. M. C. A. Student Cabinet Luncheon at College 
Inn.6:00 P. M.—Y. W. C. A. Candle Light Service, Christmas Dinner in Recreation Hall of Margaret Morrison.8:00 P. M.—Flying Club Meeting, 304 Industries Building.'WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 12 11:30 A. if.—Civil Engineering Seminary Meeting. John G. Rice will speak.THURSDAY, DECEMBER 138:00 P. M.—Science Club Christmas Party in Recreation Hall.8:15 P. M.—Initial Performance of "Richelieu,” by students of Drama Department in Little Theatre.FRIDAY, DECEMBER 143:15 P. if.—Second Performance ¿>f "Richelieu” in Little Theatre.8:15 P. M.—Memorial Service for Roald Amundson in Little 
Theatre.
5:30 P. M.—School Closes for Christmas Reccss.
