iB tartan
this week
The Role Of The President page 3
Mark Lane Talks On Kennedy page 7
Jackie Comes To CMU page 10
Housing 2200 In Room For 1800 page 5
November 25,1975 Volume 76 Number 12
Power Failure Cripples University
Photo by Paul Williams
by Thomas Kendig
On Tuesday at 3:55 pm all the electrical 
power on the CMU campus was cut off 
when a crane making repairs at Hammer- 
schlag lost its hydraulic, system and 
plunged over an embankment knocking 
over the Duquesne Lighi supply line to the 
University and the Bureau of Mines.
All the lights in every academic building 
except Coal Research and every dorm ex­
cept Morewood and Mudge were immedi­
ately out. The elevators in Science Hall 
went on their emergency power supply 
which stopped them at a particular floor. 
In Warner Hall there were two people 
caught between floors for about a half 
hour until they were rescued through the 
top emergency hatch. At security the 
emergency generators immediately 
switched on so security’s communications
H&SS Protest Strike Fails
by Paul Smith
Student protest and activism returned 
to CMU last week when the Student Coali­
tion Against Administration Repression, a 
group of H&SS students met with various 
officials and struck classes on Friday in an 
attempt to express their displeasure with 
the University over the fate of H&SS. 
The stated goals of the coalition were:
That the college of Humanities and 
Social Sciences is being strangled, Student 
Senate is a farce, Student voices go un­
heard throughout the University.
However, the hoped for result would be 
a firm commitment by President Cyert “to 
upgrade all departments, not only those in 
H&SS, but all departments, more funding 
for the History and English departments, 
and finally a cessation of the constant 
bombardment of criticism by Warner Hall 
of H&SS'.^ This protest was not caused by 
any one action, but rather was the culmin­
ation of anger which broke out.following 
the Cyert Radio Show at which time 
President Cyert said “It’s clear we can 
never be better than the established Ivy 
League Schools” in the Humanities, and 
added that the editorial in the Tartan of 
Oct. 14, which called for the discontinue- 
ing of the granting of degrees in the Hu­
manities “was saying the right things.”
On Thursday, Nov. 20, members of
S.C.A.A.R. met in the Wherret Room 
with David Demarest, an H&SS faculty 
member and Otto Davis Dean of SUPA and 
acting Dean of H&SS until John Crecine
arrives to take over in January. The 
meeting was started by John Ferrante,. 
a member of the Coalition, who raised the 
questions which are upper most in the 
Coalitions mind.
By 9:00 am Friday morning the Coali­
tion had discovered Cyert was out of town 
and could not be reached, they decided the 
most important goal was to explain their 
position to the students from the other 
schools and seek their support of a petition 
which expresses their views to President 
Cyert. As the day wore on it became in­
creasingly evident that the strike of classes 
was not working, that only a hand full of 
students were cutting. This was caused in
part by organizational problems. The 
Coalition was not together long, the haste 
with which the protest was set up led to 
a failure to determine whom was their 
friend and whom was their enemy. At the 
same time posters put up that day were 
being torn down by the greenmen, this 
report came from a student who saw this 
but does not wish to be identified. The 
value of the three day protest is difficult 
to assess. They did call attention to pro­
blems which are very real and need to be 
solued. They have collected a large number 
of signatures which support their positon 
which they plan to present to Cyert when 
they meet with him next week.
equipment would be operable.
Duquesne Light arrived on the scene 
about 20 minutes later and began assessing 
the damage. As time went on, estimates 
of the time until power restoration were 
obtained; it would take between 12 and 48 
hours until a new line could be strung and 
spliced in.
Gears began to turn in the University to 
compensate for the existing conditions. 
Security called in its extra personnel to 
help patrol the campus. Mr. Van Horn 
made the decision to have security clear, 
close down and lock all the academic build- 
buildings and Skibo (as soon as dinnerwas 
over) to prevent vandalism. They would be 
rendered totally useless after the fall of the 
approaching darkness anyway. But it was 
decided that classes would be held the next 
day as scheduled because there would be 
no period to reschedule the lost day. Chris 
Popelas was sent to get two cases of 
candles to be passed out to the residents 
of the Hill. Mrs. Cox and Dean Swank went 
to purchase flashlights and lamps, all payed 
for with their own money.
Dean Williams contacted all the RA’s 
and asked them to remain in their areas. 
They volunteered to man the Donner desk 
all night and pass out the candles, and 
there was an extra RA helping at the Mere- 
wood desk.
A memo was typed up and distributed 
explaining what students should do to 
make the stay in the darkened dorms as 
easy as possible.
Meanwhile food service was having its 
own problems. They continued to serve 
food in the Kilte Cafe. For a short while 
there was still steam available to cook the 
food and stemo was used to keep th^ food 
continued on page five
Simon Elected Chairperson
by Paul Smith
Don Simon, sophomore from MIS, 
has been chosen as the new Chairperson 
of Student Senate, replacing Larry Kurz­
weil, who stepped down from Senate. 
Taking office along with Simon was: Keith 
McDonald Vice Chairperson, Larry Valery 
Academic Affairs, Willie Thompson, Fi­
nance, Greg Ellies, General Campus, Amy 
Millman, Information and Jerry DiGennaro, 
Rules.
Simon was interviewed by the TARTAN 
to find out how he plans to lead Senate. 
“I’ve got two goals for Senate and the 
campus. First, I want more student partici-
pation in the processes of government. 
This I feel can be best accomplished by 
making Senate a more active and viable 
body. Secondly, I want to see Senate 
exercising its power into those campus 
wide areas where it has the authority and 
the expertise. One of the first things, we’ll 
do is enforce the rules that say if a student 
organization receives at least 30% of its 
funds from Senate then it must make that 
fact clear.”
Don responded to a question concerning 
the negative news stories in the TARTAN 
about Senate, saying, “I don’t want to in­
terfere with the TARTAN, as has been sug-
Evaluation Of Catalogue Underway
by Thomas Kendig
Planning for the 1977-79 catalogue has 
been started under the direction of Wil­
liam Elliott, Vice Provost for Enrollment 
Planning. Mr. Elliot is at present reviewing 
ideàs and comments as io what function 
the catalogue serves. He has printed a sche­
dule for the production of the publication 
(which should be delivered by August 17) 
and is working on setting up committees 
and meetings. There is a meeting being set 
up for the week of December 8 that is to 
“discuss the catalogue, its purpose, func­
tion and format.” It will be attended by a
variety of departmental people, from CIT, 
H&SS, CFA, Student Affairs and Student 
Government etc.
President Cyert has involved himself 
with the catalogue, a subject that tradi­
tionally has been the job of Public Rela­
tions. He believes we should “look at the 
impact of the catalogue” and decide 
whether it is primarily an internal docu­
ment or an external one.” Internal use re­
fers to the use of the catalogue by present 
students for course descriptions and as 
a reference for other campus affairs; exter­
nal use refers to the use of it by admis­
sions to help recruit.‘students to the
school. Dr. Cyert would also like to see 
more “inputs from the students” and a 
chance for them to effectively review and 
criticize the catalogue. With these goals in
mind he appointed Elliot editor of the cat­
alogue.
Elliott is very critical of the present cat­
alogue. “I don’t think it satisfies 
needs as fully as possible” and is of “little 
value to students after it is formed.” Mean­
ing that over the two year period of the 
catalogue, course descriptions change and 
new courses are added which are not up­
dated officially until one year or so later.
continued on page six
Don Simon, "The symbol of real power is when 
your misquoted."
gested by several senators, i.e., for every 
negative story about Senate, one positive 
story should appear.” Simon feels that stu­
dent apathy, as shown by the poor voter 
turn out, can be cured, “if student govern­
ment starts moving, then greater student 
participation will flow One of the first 
things Senate will be doing is to check into 
the S.A.C.’s of the campus, specifically to 
see which departments have SAC.s, how 
good they are and to determine their 
strengths and weaknesses, “ since they are 
a good source of indirect information to 
the trustees and the decision makers of the 
campus,” Simon says.
One final thing that Simon said was, 
“The symbol of power is when you’re 
quoted, the symbol of real power is when 
you‘re misquoted.”

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—THE TARTAN-November 25, 1975
editor’s note
Deferred Tenure
More than any other issue, faculty tenure has an extremely 
expensive and far reaching effect on the phenomena known 
as higher education. Tenure decisions effect an academic 
institution's educational quality, diversity, and direction as 
well as itsr financial stability. Tenure decisions involve the 
educational goals of the institution, the lively hood of the 
faculty member, and inevitably, the emotions of the student 
body.
The present system of tenure was developed so as to ensure 
that the established faculty would be free to pursue Intellec­
tual and academic freedom without regard to economic 
ramifications. A tenured faculty member can thus disagree 
with even the most obstinate university or political official, 
and indeed this is frequently the case.
Tenure has also developed into a economic necessity. Given 
that the overwhelming majority of this nation’s academic 
community operates under the tenure system, it is believed 
that such participation is essential in order to compete for 
outstanding faculty. It is rightfully hypothesized that a 
prestigious scholar would never choose a comparable 
non-tenured position if a lifetime appointment was available.
In spite of the current necessity for tenure the system is 
infested with problems. An institution’s decision to grant a 
particular faculty member tenure is effectively not only 
committing itself to a particular person but to a particular 
resource of knowledge and skills. It becomes almost impos­
sible to change a department’s orientation if it is predomin­
antly tenured; you can’t teach an old dog new tricks no 
matter how many degrees he has. A decision to grant tenure, 
then, involves a huge financial burden in the form of a 
guaranteed wage over a basically unlimited number of years, 
as well as a commitment to an educational status quo.
Given the fantastic burden associated with the granting of 
tenure the current system seems unreasonable. Currently any 
faculty member who has served this university for eight and 
one-ha{f years must go up for tenure whether he wants to or 
not^ The university then must decide either to grant tenure (a 
life-thne committment) or to dismiss. Tenure, on the one 
hand, might not be desired given that the faculty member 
under consideration doesn’t meet all the criteria for tenure 
while dismissal might cost the university an excellant instruc­
tor.
One suggestion, which was presented before the Faculty 
Senate last December, called for the creation of a second 
non-tenured track under which faculty would be hired with 
the knowledge that they would never be considered for 
tenure. The main objection to this proposal was that it would 
create a dual class faculty and that the university might 
resort to changing people’s status so as not to have to consi­
der them for tenure.
My suggestion is that the faculty be allowed to defer tenure. 
The faculty member would be able to Inform his department, 
before the tenure evaluation process begins, that he wishes to 
defer tenure until the termination of his next contract. The 
university would then consider whether or not it wanted to 
rehire him without regard to a permanent appointment. The 
faculty member could defer tenure for as many times as he 
wished while the university would maintain its review powers 
in that it could refuse to rehire him. The faculty member 
could elect not to defer tenure at any time, and would then 
go through the present process upon the termination of his 
current contract.
In this sytem it is the individual faculty member, not the 
tenure system or the university, who decides when and if a 
tenure decision should be made. Likewise, in a tenure defer­
ral process the university would not have to sacrifice excel­
lant teachers because of an outmoded system. It is indeed 
possible to compete in a tenure ridden academic community 
while eliminating the casualties of tenure. Such a system 
would benefit the individual, the institution and most of all 
the students.
Gary Singer 
Editor in Chief
letters
A TENURE CASUALTY 
Editor:
Since Professor Russ has used 
the columns of the TARTAN to 
lodge a complaint against the 
promotions committee of the 
English department, perhaps a 
reply in the same columns is 
in order. Professor Russ’s ac­
count of my report to him about 
the grounds of the committee’s 
judgements is accurate. I did in­
deed tell him that he was regard­
ed as “tough teacher” who set 
‘high standards of excellence,” 
one whom his colleagues re­
spected for his writing, his teach­
ing, and his professionalism. And 
I reported that there were those 
in our committee who had 
reservations about his compe­
tence as a novelist, about the 
narrowness of his vein of repor- 
torial excellence, about the 
“lack of ethical dimension” in
his accounts of Korea, 
and Tarawa.
Professor Russ is mistaken, I 
think, in judging that his “pub­
lications were given only cursory 
examinations by the commit­
tee,” though the committee is 
large and may have contained 
members who had not sufficient­
ly reviewed Professor Russ’s 
work. The fact remains, howev­
er, that the judgements I report­
ed to him were both made and 
thoughtfully canvassed by mem­
bers of the committee.
I think I understand these 
judgements, though I do not 
weigh them equally. I have read 
almost all that Professor Russ 
has published in book form; I 
have read many of his reviews, 
articles, and scripts; I have read 
his current novel in two of its 
drafts. And I am left with this 
personal assessment: that Profes­
sor Russ’s very real gifts as a
writer find their best expression 
at present in the reportorial or 
journalistic rather than the fic­
tional, and that his gifts have 
shown themselves primarily in 
military accounts.
That these accounts have an 
ethical base I aggree with Profes­
sor Russ; but since it receives 
little verbalization, little devel­
opment or elaboration, I under­
stand the dismay of the critics 
who ask of him more, much 
more, than they find. What’s 
involved here is not a violation 
of academic freedom, nor is it 
accurate to infer that the com­
mittee expected “a writer ... to 
restrict himself to an ethical 
framework.” The committee 
members were not urging a 
framework of any kind; they 
were not positing an approved 
ethical vision. They were ex­
pressing a sense of significant 
continued on page three
tartan
Volume 76November 25, 1975Number 12
Editor in Chief 
Gary Singer
•
Business Manager: Tom Kirkland 
News Editor:Charles Mitch 
Entertainment Editor:Mark Chimsky 
Trapeze Editor: Greg McKenna 
Sports Editor: Elly Zimmerman 
Photography Editor: Elliot Popowitz
Please Note: Due to the Thanksgiving recess there will not 
be a issue of the TARTAN until December 9. This upcom­
ing issue will be the last issue of the Fall Semester. Happy 
Thanksgiving!!!
Staff Photographers: Rick Frantz, James Johnston, Courtney Larson. Kathi Leichter, Dave Meeker, John Rose 
Mark Segal, Fred Shamlian, Brian Smith, Carl West, Paul Williams.
Copyrighted 1975 by the Carnegie -Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit 
or withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the the Student Govern­
ment of Carnegie -Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; [412]' 
621-2600 extention 656. Business Offices: Skibo 52; [412] 682^557.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

---------------------------------------------------

news comment
THE TARTAN-November 25, 1975-Page 3
^ -
0 \/iq\a/ \ A/^t-r-^r I—l^ll the university and its president:view Trorn vvd.rn6r M3iBB tar nThr Te tar RnroBlrOt ft Psd
As president, I see the man­
agement of the academic and re­
lated support activities of the 
university as an important part 
^ of the role of this office.
' On the academic side, the 
president works through the pro­
vosts and the deans with the ob­
jective of providing the best ed­
ucation and research possible. 
To achieve this we must have a 
faculty and a student body 
that are outstanding. Thus, it is 
necessary for the president to 
y become involved directly in the 
^ hiring of department heads and 
the granting of tenure to faculty. 
At the same time, the president 
must also be involved with the 
whole admissions process. My 
concept of the way to maintain 
a voice in these roles is to have 
periodic meetings with individ- 
> uals and with groups. I have a 
* certain number of people with 
whom I meet every week, oth­
ers every two weeks, and still 
others every three weeks. In 
these meetings which consist of
.letters
? continued from page two 
privation.
As for the “failure to provide 
energetic . .. leadership,” it is 
true that several members of the 
committe felt strongly about 
this. It is also true that Professor 
Russ did not provide such lead- 
tership. And it is finally true that 
•'^the department failed adequate­
ly to communicate to Professor 
Russ its need, the sense of 
which only clearly emerged after 
Professor Wier left us for anoth­
er academic post.
Martin, Martin, we who care 
about communication have com- 
^municated too little too late. 
<il>The reason you’re being let go 
is not that you’re not a very 
good teacher, nor that you’re 
not a far better than ordinary 
writer. The reasons are three: 
that as its creative writing 
commitment grows, the depart­
ment needs an established writer 
g of fiction, it needs energetic 
^leadership, and it must spend 
its few tenure slots with a 
prudence verging on the parsi­
monious. Tenure was the basic 
issue in the committee’s extend­
ed deliberations about you. In 
the last analysis it was tenure 
that made you a casualty. I’m 
* sorry.
it* Arthur M. Eastman
Head, English Department
A DEDICATED TEACHER
Editor:
Over half the freshmen major­
ing in English have indicated 
L Creative Writing as their special* 
k ty. In light of the Option’s an­
ticipated growth, the Depart­
ment’s decision to fire Martin 
Russ is particularly unfortunate. 
While we don’t intend to chal­
lenge the politics of tenure; we 
leel that Mr. Russ is a valuable
reports and discussions of pro­
blems, I try to make clear my 
attitudes and my goals for each 
area.
On the related support side, 
the president through the vice 
president for business affairs 
oversees the financial manage­
ment of the University as well 
as information services, physical 
plant, campus services, and other 
support areas, This aspect in­
cludes financial planning and 
budgeting for operations and 
capital expenditures. I have al­
ways believed that a university 
should run its support activities 
in the same way as a business. 
We should not make investments 
unless we are getting the highest 
alternative return. In addition, 
we must always strive to utilize 
our resources in the most effi­
cient way possible.
Above all, however, the pres­
ident as the major strategic 
planner must take the respons­
ibility for bringing together the 
relevant people to do long-range
versatile resource to the De­
partment and we ask that the 
final committee reconsider the 
Department’s decision.
Mr. Russ was hired in 1971 
by the English Department for 
the (now defunct) Film-Script 
Option. His student ratings for 
teaching have been consistently 
high. His credentials include 
three novels, four books of non­
fiction, over fifty reviews for 
magazines such as The Saturday 
Review, six television film docu­
mentaries, and two film scripts 
for director Stanley Kubrick. Dr. 
Eastman says that tenure deci­
sions are based on “competence 
in teaching and scholarship, and 
excellence in one.” We feel that 
Mr. Russ meets these require­
ments.
While Mr. Russ realizes that 
he is a “minor writer,” he feels 
that the charge of “lack of ethi­
cal dimension” because his work 
deals with the military is innac- 
curate. “The tenure committee 
must have cursorily studied the 
novels and assumed that they 
were superficial ‘gung-ho-let’s- 
hit-the-beach’ muck. On the 
contrary, they deal with the ill- 
effect of military careers.” All 
writers haye their specialties, and 
we don’t see how an interest in 
the military is any different. In 
his freelance writing class, when 
Mr. Russ felt hostility towards 
military examples, he made the 
adjustment immediately - he is 
not frozen into this topic.
The charge of “lack of leader­
ship” is a little more complex. 
Apparently the Writing Option 
has faltered since Gladys 
Schmidt’s death; she was, as Dr. 
Eastman states, “a den mother” 
to the program, and actively 
seeking improvements. It is true 
that Mr. Russ was not active 
in this area. He considers him-
planning. He must be the cata­
lyst who sees that the depart­
ments and colleges are pro­
ducing strategic plans consistent 
with those developed for the 
entire university. He must never 
allow operating problems to in­
terfere with long-range strategic 
planning.
The president also has a vital 
external role to play: that of 
spokesman to present our educa­
tional goals to our community 
of friends and to gain their 
support for those goals. He 
must meet frequently with 
alumni to bring more of them 
into the university circle and 
must project an honest image 
of the university to stimulate 
alumni support. Foundations, 
corporations, and friends must 
also be cultivated. In fund rais­
ing significant attention must be 
paid to the overall financial 
strategy of the university. I de­
termined from the outset of my 
administration that one of our 
greatest assets would be that by
self a “nuts and bolts” teacher. 
“I was hired to teach. I’m not 
saying ‘that’s not my job’ - I 
would have gotten involved if I 
knew I had to.”
While we agree with Dr. 
Eastman that the Option could 
use active faculty leadership, not 
all teachers are going to be in­
volved with department dealings. 
Mr. Russ’ success as a teacher 
should not be dismissed so 
lightly. Even if he is not a re­
nowned novelist, he is accom­
plished in critical reviewing (an 
aspect the Committee failed to 
emphasize) and highly qualified 
to teach film technique. Finding 
department leadership should 
not be at the expense of dedica­
tion to teaching.
Mark Chimsky 
Trissy Bowers 
Lisa Zeidner
THE DEPTHS OF DOOM 
Editor:
I was part of a group that or­
ganized last week and passed 
around petitions concerning the 
future of Humanities at Carnegie 
-Mellon. I feel that there are 
quite a number of problems that 
remain unsettled and all the 
students hear are vague prom­
ises.
The question of what to do 
with the Humanities program 
goes back to my freshman year 
(I am now a junior) when the 
credit level of many courses was 
lowered. Every year since then, a 
great furor has sprung up about, 
the proper direction that the Ad­
ministration should take con­
cerning Humanities. 'While the 
great debate continues, a large 
number of dynamic young pro­
fessors depart our hollow ground 
and no matter how much protest 
is made, the Administration 
keeps right on insulting many of 
its education-conscious students.
I can’t remember a semester
sound financial management, the 
University would remain in the 
black. (This was also a necessity 
if we were to survive.) The feed­
back that I get from those out­
side the University leads me to 
believe that the strategy is cor­
rect.
In addition to these activities, 
the president must be an ed­
ucational leader, by being con­
cerned with the way in which 
the university is achieving inno­
vative educational goals develop­
ed with the cooperation of the 
faculty. He must assume the 
leadership of the faculty in 
making educational changes and 
in providing the conditions for 
stimulation such innovation. 
Similar statemant can be made 
with respect to the research at 
the university. Much of his 
influence upon research comes 
from fund raising and from the 
allocation of internal funds for 
particular research activities.
Intertwined with all these 
activities is communication
that didn’t see a fine teacher get 
the boot and now it appears that 
there is an all-out war going on. 
I’ve seen the battle scars on 
many a fine teacher, who could 
not hold back the tears of dis­
gust. I screamed in vain for 
Mrs. J. Hearn and no one lis­
tened or cared when she depart­
ed. The shells exploded with fur­
ther penatration when Dr. 
Cyert questioned the usefulness 
of a Humanities degree in a pre­
vious issue of this publication. 
Now Martin Russ has made it 
clear that the time is now. We 
must find ways to gain input 
into the decision-making process 
and we can’t wait around for a 
phantom dean to rescue us from 
the depths of doom.
I want some tangible proof 
that Humanities has not received 
a fatal wound. Is this a univer­
sity in the truest sense of the 
word or is it merely the Admin­
istration’s interpretation of T.S. 
Eliot’s “Waste Land?”
Fred Freedman
A REAL FEELING OF PRIDE 
Editor,
I wish to express my appreci­
ation and the appreciation of the 
University to all of the Carne- 
gie-Mellon students who behaved 
so calmly and so helpfully dur­
ing the recent power failure. We 
had no fires, no injuries, and 
no serious incidents of any 
kind during the power black­
out. Members of my staff from 
all over the University have 
commented on the constructive 
and efficient way that the 
students managed to overcome 
or sidestep all of the obstacles 
that arose. When things like 
this happen, I know that all 
of us come away with a real 
feeling of pride in being at 
Carnegie-Mellon University.
Dick Van Horn 
Vice President
with students, faculty, staff, 
alumni, and trustees. I feel 
that an important part of my 
job is getting to know students 
and their problems. I am inter­
ested in providing an academic 
environment in which problems 
are minimal and in which stu­
dents can maximize their learn­
ing. I want to see this University 
providing all the possible oppor­
tunities for students consistent 
with our general goals. It is clear­
ly a difficult matter for one 
person to be completely visible 
and to interact with some 4300 
others. Thus, I am continually 
searching for more ways for 
communicating and interacting. 
The monthly luncheons with 
students are a good vehicle for 
discussion and feedback. The 
radio program on WRCT can 
sometimes be equally effective. I 
intend to meet with the Stu­
dent Senate and possibly other 
groups during the year.
I communicate with the fa­
culty through a variety of 
means, including two faculty 
meetings a year, letters to the 
faculty, some departmental 
meetings, and coffee hours. In 
addition, I have met with the 
officers of the Staff Council 
to discuss matters of interest 
to them. Programs have been 
developed for alumni in which I 
travel around the country and 
speak to various clans.
I also have a number of in­
teractions with the trustees, in­
cluding quarterly reports which 
summarize conditions at the 
University between the three 
Board meetings for the year 
and monthly meetings with the 
Exective Committee of the 
Board of Trustees.
The president frequently 
handles relationships with gov­
ernment. For example, our re­
cently launched program to 
make this University much bet­
ter known at the state and 
federal government level has 
required a great deal of my 
attention and time. It is also 
important to keep an eye on 
the whole field of public rela­
tions since private schools must 
continue to make their accom­
plishments known to large num­
bers of people.
I have described the role of 
presidency in terms of some of 
my duties. In additon I have as­
sumed another role for myself, 
for I think that a president of 
an institution that stresses pro­
fessional excellence should him­
self remain active professionally. 
Thus, I continue to do research 
under a National Science Foun­
dation grant (along with Pro­
fessor DeGroot). Each year since 
becoming president, I have done 
some teaching. In other words, 
I do not believe a president 
should become divorced from 
the academic process, because in 
the final analysis this process is 
the objective of all our activities 
at the University.
Richard M. Cyert 
President, CMU
L

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—THE TARTAN-November 25, 1975
announcements
X
The First Annual Crafts Fair, sponsored
the University of Pittsburgh YMCA will be 
open to the public, as well as to the Univer­
sity from 12 noon to 8 pm, Friday, Decem­
ber 5 and Saturday, December 6, Demon­
stration of crafts will be'»the main attrac­
tion, including, leathercraft, spinning, 
macrame, calligraphy, woodwork, pottery, 
glasswork, metalwork.
W3VC, the Carnegie Tech Radio Club, will
sponsor a Hamfest and fela market at CMU 
on Sunday, the 7th of December, in the 
Skibo Ballroom. Doors open around 8:30
a.m. A large assortment of radio and elec­
tronic gear will be available at low prices. 
Everyone is invited to attend and get ac­
quainted with Amateur Radio.
In another of its continuing campus ser­
vices, the Carnegie Tech Radio Club will be 
sending Christmas messages for CMU stu­
dents. This service is especially aimed at 
people who will not get home for the holi­
days. Messages should be as short as pos­
sible. For further information, please con­
tact John Rose, WA2ZUL/3 at 687-0794.
The Pyramid Zen Society and the Zen
Study Society of CMU are sponsoring a 
lecture by Mr. Frank Mascara, a local phil­
osopher and teacher of,religion. His lec­
ture, "Man's Search for Reality", will focus 
on the ways and means available to seekers 
in both popular culture and in sincere 
esoteric circles. The lecture will be held in 
the Hunt Library Multi-purpose room, on 
Thursday December 4 at 7:30 pm. The 
lecture is free and open to the public. For 
further information call 421-2039.
The Modern Languages Department will of­
fer a new self-paced Hebrew course, He­
brew 82-181, 182, 183, in the spring se­
mester. Attendance is optional, and it is 
open to all students, including those who 
have had no college Hebrew as well as 
those who have taken Hebrew 82-181. The 
emphasis will be on modern Hebrew 
speaking, reading, writing and grammar. 
However, interested students will have the 
opportunity to study Biblical stories which 
have become a rich source of allusion in 
world literature. For example, the "Ordeal 
of Issac" and "Cain and Abel" will be stud­
ied as sources for Kierkegaard's Fear and 
Trembling and Byron's Cain respectively.
The newly-formed Pittsburgh branch of
Citizen's Commission of Inquiry to investi­
gate the assassination of President John 
Kennedy will hold its first general meeting 
Tuesday, November 25, at 7 pm in room 
12 downstairs in Skibo. The meeting will 
be held for the purpose of establishing 
goals and electing committee members 
and a chairperson. All are invited to attend.
The Central Medical Pavillion will conclude
its current series of eleven free public 
seminars on common medical problems 
Thrusday, December 4, 1975 at 7:30 pm. 
with a presentation entitled "A Look At 
Your Stomach From The Inside."
The seminar will be held in the first 
dining room of the Central Medical Pavil­
lion, 1400 Centre Ave., directly across 
from the Civic Arena. A question and an­
swer period will follow the oresentation.
Different European programs, including
temporary jobs and Volunteer Service 
positons, are available to any student 
between the ages of 17 and 27. Students 
interested in seeing and earning their way 
in Europe may obtain an application and 
complete information by sending their 
name, address, age and one dollar or the 
equivalent in stamps to SOS-Student 
Overseas Services, 22 Ave. de la Liberte, 
Luxembourg, Europe.
Thursday Afternoon Luncheon Forum- A
CHILD'S CHRISTMAS IN WALES: The 
Park Players (CMU Drama Department) 
will present a dramatic reading of Dylan 
Thomas' famous work. Come celebrate 
the holiday with us. Thursday, Decem­
ber 4, 12:30 in the Wherret Room, Skibo.
The Military Science courses 30-102 and
30-202 for the Spring semester will meet 
one hour per week not two hours as shown 
in the .Schedule of ClasSfes. For correct 
times contact the Military Science Depart­
ment, Extension 281/409.
Applications for the Vira I. Heinz Travel
Award are now available in the Office of 
Student Affairs, 207 Warner Hall. This 
grant, established in 1967, will enable 
a woman student to study and travel 
abroad between her junior and senior 
years. The purpose of the $1,5000 award 
"is to have an articulate and perceptive 
young lady gain first-hand knowledge of 
international understanding and share her 
experience with other members of the 
college community upon her return."
Junior women interested in being con­
sidered for this award must submit an 
application to the Student Affairs Office 
by Thursday, January 15, 1976. The selec­
tion committee will meet with all appli­
cants at 3:00 p.m. on Thursday, January 
22, in the Blue Conference Room on the 
sixth floor of Warner Hall.
Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh invites the
public to its first "Siirplus Books Sale" 
on Friday and Saturday, December 5 and
6, from 9:00 am to 5:00 pm in the base­
ment of the East Liberty Branch, Baum 
and Whitfield Streets. A two-hour opening 
on Thursday evening, December 4, from 
6:00 to 8:00 will accommodate those 
who cannot attend the daytime sales.
On Nov. 17, I had a painting stolen from
my studio on the 4th floor of the Fine 
Arts Building. There have been several 
other paintings stolen in the past week and 
we are sick of it. I spent a full five weeks 
working on that painting and I didn't even 
have time to photograph it. It is a smorgas­
bord painting: the middle of the painting is 
a table covered with an Italian tablecloth 
on which there are two empty plates, 
a toaster, and a rubber tree plant. Border­
ing this are food selections: eggs, a hand- 
burger, a hotdog, etc. If anyone sees this 
painting or knows who took it, I would 
like to know about it. My phone number 
is 521-9590. I am willing to offer a reward.
I want the painting back. Sue Julien
Graduating seniors, new graduates, and
graduate students are invited to apply for 
the Full-year Pre-professional Traineeships 
in Mental Health offered at the Devereux 
Foundation in suburban Philadelphia, a 
group of multi-disciplinary residential and 
day care treatment and rehabilitation 
centers.
A combined tax exempt stipend and 
allowance of $316. per month, housing, 
and meals are provided to qualified appli­
cants who are U.S. citizens, unmarried, 
and at least 22 years of age. Trainees must 
have the use of a fully-insured personal 
automobile and should be able to do their 
own typing. Preference will be given to 
applicants with a broad academic base of 
trailing and demonstrated skills appropri­
ate to the traineeship who plan to attend 
graduate school and presneily se;el< a com­
prehensive training experience in suppor­
tive mental health services. Information 
and applications are available from Dr. 
Henry Platt, Director, Institute of Clinical 
Training, the Devereux Foondation, 
Devon, Pennsylvania 19333.
Prominent Pittsburgh obstetrician Robert
L. Froncuti, MD will discuss sexuality 
during and after pregnancy as part of the 
public Open House to be given by the 
Pittsburgh Organization for Childbirth 
Education on Monday, December 1, at 
8:00 pm in the Community Room of 
South Hills Village. The primary purpose 
of this Open House is to provide informa­
tion about educated prepared childbirth 
through a panel discussion and film on 
childbirth. Information about POCE classes 
and activities is available by calling 
243-POCE.
Medieval Dinner being planned for Decem­
ber 10 at 6:30 pm in the Skibo Ballroom. 
Program will include traditional festive 
menu of the Medieval Period, pagentry, 
music, costumes and entertainment. Tic­
kets available at Faculty Senate Office and 
at Skibo Information Desk. Open to 
Students, Staff and Faculty and their 
children. For further information contact 
the Department of Student Activities, 
CMU extension 214.
Achtung!
The German Table meets every Tuesday 
for lunch in the Kiltie Cafe (lower Skibo) 
from 11:30 until whenever.
Want to improve your problem solving.'
Make quicker decisions? Remember things 
better? A problem solving course will 
be offered by the Psychology department 
during the spring semester under the code 
name, 85-111.
The course is practical in its orientation. 
It is designed to improve general skills 
that are used in many fields but usually 
not treated in departmental courses. The 
topics to be covered include memory and 
mnemonics, decision making, perceptual 
skills, planning, writing, and creativity.
The course is open to all students on 
campus. There are no prerequisites. The 
workload, however, will be moderate to 
heavy.
Assault Defense Program Offered. Eight
week program for women students, staff 
and faculty on type and nature of assaults 
and ways to defend yourself. Contact 
Department of Student Activities for 
more information. Must register in ad­
vance.
Classified
Are you: A sophmore; interested in Nurs­
ing; interested in a two year scholarship.' 
Call 624-6397.
Need part-time work? Jr. and Sr. CIT, MIS,
Architecture, Economics, Social Relations, 
Foreign Language students with a 2.7 or 
better average wanted as tutors. Pay 
$2.50/hr. You define the hours. Contact 
Peer Help, Baker Hall 150-A, 687-7414, 
Ext. 8874
PLATIGNUM ITALIC SET
Contains a fountain pen, five 
9 take mfo, and instruction 
p}J manual, a(i foron(y $5.00...
-----At art mattriaCSr'yen sdojts,
cotteqe food stores... or send 
ckecd to ‘Pentafic Corp., 132 
West 22 St., coy, N.y. won 
AcicC50 cents for fiandiinq
If you need a ride to the Airport on Wed.,
Nov. 26, take the A PHI O THANKSGIV­
ING SHUTTLEBUS.
The bus is a 49-passenger PAT Coach mak­
ing 3 trips to Greater Pittburgh Airport on
26 November. The trips leave Morewood 
Main Entrance at 10:45 am, 1:15 pm, and 
3:45 pm, respectively. They also leave ' 
Donner Main Entrance at 11:00 am, 1:30 ^ 
pm, and 4:00 pm respectively. The bus 
arrives at the Airport at (or before) 12 
noon, 2:30 pm, and 5:00 pm.
Make reservations at Skibo Desk, More- 
wood Desk, CMU Travel Office, or B-104 
Hammerschlag; otherwise, pay as you 
board if there's room. Price - $1.75. An­
other service of Alpha Phi Omeaa.
iMajoring in math, computer science or '
physics? Interested in a 3 or 4 year scholar­
ship? Call 624-6396.
Earn up to $80.00 per month for 4 hours
of your time per week. Donate plasma at 
Sera-Tec Biological, 3407 Forbes Ave. 
(next to Arby's). Open 8:45 to 5:30 Mon- . 
day through Friday. 682-3190. ^
ROOMATE WANTED; Squirrel Hill apart­
ment; own room; spacious; $80 includes 
utilities; call Jeff, Richard; 421-7457.
Monday, November 24 at 8:30 pm, Carne­
gie Music Hall, Oakland: The Pittsburgh 
Chamber Music Society presents the Pablo 
Casals Piano Trio performing Mozart, 
Kirchner and Brahms. Tickets available at ^ 
Kaufmann's, Pitt Student Union and the 
Box Office: $4.50, $3.50 and $1.50.
Free room and board plus small salary in
exchange for cooking and companion du­
ties for diabetic woman. Generous free 
time. Mature female graduate student only.
Car preferred but not necessity. 441-1333 
or 621-3970. '
Grey kitten-free to good home. Three
month old male kitten, litter trained. 
441-7205, evening.
I
AMERICAN FAMILY PLANNING 
SERVICES
LOCAL ABORTION & 
BIRTH CONTROL FACILITIES
215-449- 2006
P?There fS a difference!!!
J PREPARE FOR 
%
Over 35 years 
of experience and success
Small classes
Voluminous home study materials
MCAT DAT LSAT GRE ATGSB 0CAT CPAT . FLEX : ECFMG : NATI MED BOS:
Courses that are constantly updated • 
¦ •
Make-ups for *
missed lessons ^
•
Local Classes
681-9735
• «Bfewtßgu-H.: KAPLAN
Ü EDUCATIONAL CENTER
*
TEST PREPARATION SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938
1523 MUKDOtfC. ROAt> 
Pintfburcb, Pa. 15217
Branches iitAUior U S. Citi*s

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-November 25, 1975-Page 5
Crane Mishap Eclipses CMU
continued from page one
hot while serving. Candles were used to 
light up the serving lines. The Tartan Grill 
was shut down at 5:00 and its employees 
sent over to Morewood to help keep the 
cafeteria open. Jerry Gaida, manager of the 
grill, volunteered to stay and keep More- 
wood open all night. There was free coffee 
as well as milk, juice, drinks, sandwiches, 
and donuts for sale.
As time went on, temperatures in the 
refrigerators began to rise and something 
would have to be done to keep the meats 
and milk and other perishables from spoil­
ing. John Eichmuller, acting head of food 
service, tried to obtain a refrigerated 
truck but had no luck. The perishables 
were instead loaded onto a truck and 
placed in the Morewood refrigerator. The 
next morning, food service prepared a 
continental breakfast in Skibo which not 
many people attended, most going to 
Morewood. A hot lunch was prepared at 
Morewood and trucked over to Skibo. 
Of course paper plates were being used 
for all these meals in Skibo because of the
lack of dishwashing ability.
Duquesne Light meanwhile was busy. 
They brought in a crew of men who started 
to set new poles to replace the ones that 
were knocked over. CMU called up nine 
local erection firms to get a crane here as
soort as possible to pull the wrecked crane 
from across the lines so new lines could be 
constructed. It was arranged to have the 
cranes present by early the next morning. 
A temporary splice was made into the line 
and almost as quickly as the crane was re­
moved, the temporary line was turned on, 
restoring power to the university at about 
9:30 am. The crew then worked to replace 
the regular lines and at about 12:00 on 
Thursday the temporary line was removed 
and regular service restored. Power was 
restored to the Bureau of Mines by 1:00 
on Thursday and a steam pipe also broken 
was repaired by 6:00 on Thursday.
Some classes were cancelled on Wed­
nesday morning because some rooms had 
a total absence of light (Science Hall 7500 
and Doherty Hall 2210) but other courses
went on as usual. It was now possible to 
assess what had happened. The old steam 
plant was being removed from Hammer- 
schlag by the contractor, Herbert Silver. He 
had subcontracted a crane to come in and 
lift the boiler out. While it was sitting 
outside of Science Hall, its hydraulic sys­
tem failed, placing the crane on its wheels 
and allowing it to roll backwards down the 
drive behind Science Hall. The operator 
was not in the crane at the time, and in 
trying to stop it was knocked down the 
embankment and received some lacera­
tions, was treated at the hospital and re­
leased. The crane knocked a car into a 
garage door in Science Hall and proceeded 
to roll down the drive, eventually toppling 
over the embankment, the boom falling 
across the power lines. The boom also 
struck four cars in the parking lot below 
and severed the steam lines to the Bureau 
of Mines. CMU took over the responsi- 
bilitites of getting all the necessary repairs 
made. As a general estimate, it may cost 
around $5,000 for the steam line repair, 
$12,000 for the removal of the crane and 
$20,000 for the repair of the electric line. 
The total cost for all the damages could 
reach $50,000. It is assumed by the uni­
versity that the incident is covered by in­
surance.
The administration was very impressedHousing
by Debbie Rosenkrantz
Housing recommendations for the 1976- 
77 school year have been made by the sub­
committee on housing of the Campus 
Services Board. The objectives of the 
committee is to provide housing for the 
2,250 expected resident students. The rate 
of residents who request housing for the 
second or more consecutive year has in­
creased from a very consistant five year 
average of 56% to 66% in 1975. This 
combined with the 24% increase in the size 
of the freshman class this year has com­
pounded the problem even more.
Objectives of the University in providing 
housing as stated in the committees report 
are 1) * To facilitate the student’s attain­
ment of his/her educational objectives.
To provide at least an initial period in a 
moderatly controlled environment for a 
student to interact intellectually and per­
sonally with his (her) peers in the rigors 
and opportunities of university life. 2) 
That the university state as policy its in­
tentions of providing resident facilities 
for as many students as can be accomodat­
ed comfortably and in a manner consistant 
with the universities objective that the 
resident experience be supportive of the 
university’s academic goals. 3) That 
priorities for housing specifically define 
classes and groups of students be establish­
ed. 4) That the total capacity of university 
residents be reassessed consistant with the 
comfort and academic support functions 
noted above. 5) That an assessment of 
short-term needs (3-5 years) be immediatly 
undertaken to allow the university a choice 
of acquisition of additional residence space 
or revision of university policy with respect 
to student residents not later than January 
1976 for the Fall of 1976.
Some specific suggestions have been 
made to increase the housing potential of 
the university. These include converting 
Doherty Graduate House for married 
students to a dormitory open to all 
students. This conversion alone would add. 
134 additional spaces for students by 
virtue of the fact that there would be four 
students in each appartment instead of 
one student and the students family. 
(There are 52 housing units in Doherty)
Photo by John Rose 
A supply of candles will be kept for the future.
with how well the students took the whole 
incident. Everyone from Dean Williams to 
Mr. Van Horn were amazed at how people 
cooperated and the tremendously calm be­
havior of the students. Mr. Van Horn has 
called a meeting to discuss the whole in­
cident and look at how the university 
could be more prepared for such matters, 
as in the possibility of buying more radio 
equipment for better communication or 
establishing a better way to clear buildings. 
For the future campus services will keep an 
emergency supply of such things as candles 
and flash lights on hand.
Shortage
If this were done, a full time off-campus 
housing office would be opened (within 
the jurisdiction of Residence life) to help 
students find off campus housing. This 
would increase the occupancy from 16 to 
60 or more. These houses would cost more 
to keep up and therefore more to live in, 
but would provide additional alternatives 
to Morewood Gardens/Hill Dorm type 
living. Another suggestion is to convert 
co-ops to semi-co-ops where grounds and 
maintenance would be taken care of by the 
university, but custodianship would still 
be done by the residents. Cost of living in 
these residences would increase to reflect 
this change. Another suggestion is to allow 
sororities to lease space in the Roselawn/ 
Woodlawn appartments. This would open 
additional spaces in Morewood for women 
students. During the Christmas break 
room level occupance would be re-evaluat­
ed, perhaps with minimum and maximum 
levels. Room rates would be adjusted ac­
cordingly.
Priority for housing would be given to 
first year students (freshman and first year 
grad students), second year students 
(sophomores and second year grad stu­
dents), third year students, fourth year and 
other returning students, students in 
special programs which require absence 
from campus for a period of time, students 
requesting residence for the first time in 
class order of sophomore, junior, and sen­
ior, students returning to residency accord­
ing to length of previous stay, and married 
students with family. However once those 
people who have been given room 
guarantees have been counted off, first 
choice will be given to those students who 
lived here the longest down to the fresh­
man getting what is left over.
The members of the committee that 
came up with the plans were Steve 
Zalewski, Director of Campus Services; 
Bill Dillon, Business Manager; and Charles 
Williams, Residence Life; from the ad­
ministration, and student representatives 
from SDC, Bill Jacobs, Moira Peel, Martha 
Ford; Student Senate, Willie Thompson; 
UFO, Farrell Heifer; and the Mudge 
Graduate House Council, David McDonald
PRIZES
ESSAY CONTEST
The Greater Interest in Government Contest is once 
again requesting submission of essays dealing with 
problems related to government. The competition is 
open to all undergraduates at Carnegie-Mellon. Essays 
may be submitted by individuals or by teams of up to 
three members.
Topics may include any aspect of local, city, state, 
regional, or national problems. Prize winning essays in 
previous years have included essays on aspects of secon­
dary education, unemployment, criminal justice and ur­
ban decay. Students shduld be careful to select topics 
which are not too broad to make possible treatment in 
depth. The essays will be judged for quality of analysis, 
clarity of exposition, and (where appropriate) feas­
ibility of implementation. Students may seek advice 
from faculty in defining their topic.
Those desiring to enter the competition should sub­
mit entries of not more than three hundred words on or 
before Friday, December 19.. These entries should 
outline and describe the topic which the student wishes 
to develop and give some indication of the material he 
or she intends to consult. By January 9 the authors of 
the six most promising entries will be invited to submit 
final entries.
Final entries will be due February 27 and prizes will 
be announced March 12. The length of a final entry may 
not exceed 5,000 words. The papers should conform to 
good style in matters such as footnoting and 
bibliography. First prize is $240, second prize $180 and 
third prize $120. (Should no paper meet the minimum 
standards of the committee, the committee reserves the 
right to award fewer than three prizes or no prizes at 
all.)
This contest is conducted with the support of a fund 
established by Mr. Frederick A. Faville and Mr. 
George Ellerton (Class of 1919, Mechanical Engineering) 
to encourage interest in civic matters among Carnegie 
Tech students. (Members of Tau Beta Pi may also submit 
their entries to the national Tau Beta Pi "Greater In­
terest in Government Contest" which has a first prize of 
$500—also endowed by Mr. Faville. Those planning to 
submit their essays to both contests should contact Dr. 
Lewis before submitting their initial work, as the rules 
vary slightly between the two contests.)
Turn in all entries to the Department of Social 
Relations, MM307. Questions should be addressed to Dr. 
Gordon Lewis, Department of Social Relations.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—THE TARTAN-November 25, 1975
a satirePractice Makes Perfect
Photo courtesy of Alan Furman
by Alyson L. Abramowitz
The newest club at Carnegie-Mellon 
University is one called the Suicide Club. 
Started by Brian Jackson, its aims are 
twofold: to organize suicides at CMU and 
to make CMU the number one college for 
suicides in the country.
According to Jackson, there are many 
ways to commit suicide. The major ones 
include: “seeing God, skydiving without 
a parachute, and (a special for those re­
quired to take physics) testing for accelera­
tion due to freely falling bodies.”
Of course there are the prime places to 
commit suicide. Waiting lists are long for 
The Frew Street Bridge, The Tower of 
Learning, and (for computer nurds) 
Science Hall. Tours leave the first SundaySenate Money For Frats
by Laurie Trask
In the midst of continuing debates on 
the question of Student Senate funding 
the UnifiedFraternal Organization, Senate’s 
Finance Committeee has tentatively allot­
ted eight hundred seventy-five dollars to 
UFO. This money is only to be used in 
funding events that are open to the entire 
college community, such as Greek Sing and 
the Watermelon Bash. Larry Kurzweil, 
ex-Chairperson of the Student Senate and 
a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon fratern­
ity, was one who favored partial funding.
The CMU
“Some use the argument that the Student 
Senate shouldn’t be funding social clubs. 
Then why do we fund Spirit and the 
Activities Board? There should be a consis- 
tancy of funding.” Kurzweil further com­
mented that he felt the hassles over budget­
ing money to UFO was due to an anti- 
Greek feeling on campus.
Don Simon, the new Chairperson of the 
Student Senate (formerly the Chairperson 
of the Finance Committee), disagreed. 
“There are two reasons why Student Sen­
ate should not fund UFO. UFO is primarily
A Personal
continued from page one
Elliott mentioned he “would hope we 
would get away from this sort of thing” 
and is considering suggestions from dif­
ferent areas. This includes looking at how 
other universities approach the situation.
Some suggestions that are being consid­
ered at present, include 1) continuing the 
catalogue as a bi-yearly publication (to cut 
printing costs and the amount of staff 
time spent on it) 2) using two catalogues, 
one to be printed every year, containing 
course descriptions and enrollment proce­
dures and a second catalogue to be printed 
every other year which contains a descrip­
tion of the departments and a statement of
Catalogue: 
Experience?
a social organization. While Spirit does 
hold some dances, it is not funded for 
social events. Spirit gets money for Black 
Week, to pay for speakers and special 
events. And AB is not a social organization. 
It’s an autonomous group on campus, 
which sponsors open movies and concerts. 
My second reason is that there are four 
independent bodies of government on 
campus: CCP, UFO, SDC, and Student 
Senate . . . Each group should be funded 
seperately, and should have no connection 
... So that they can remain independent.” 
The final vote by the senate, on whether 
to fund UFO, to decrease the appropria­
tion,or to increase it, should come some­
time in the near future.
of every month from Hammerschlag to 
show off each of the favorite spots. 
Instruction is given by the club on the best 
methods for -each location. Their slogans 
are “Roof top instruction backed by a 
can’t miss guarantee” and “Learn to 
become a statistic in one easy lesson.”
With finals coming up,-the suicide club 
has planned some special events. Decem­
ber 5 will be the annual dinner on top of 
the Triangle. Starting with cocktails at 6, 
dinner of arsenic laced chicken will follow. 
After dinner a speaker will talk on the joys 
of death and Hamlet at 8:30. If the condi­
tions are perfect, there will be a mass jump 
from 9:30-10:30. On December 8, those 
still left will attend the Alumni Meeting 
at Shadyside Cemetery. Following that, 
refreshments will be served at Shadyside 
Hospital. Annual checkups of the members 
will come next, with each being required 
to jog down the center of Forbes Avenue 
back to CMU. Finally, for all the failures, 
One Last Chance! December 9 -- the last 
night before finals -- a party! Including a 
door prize; the person with the best plan­
ned suicide gets an all expenses paid 
funeral.
And -- for those who didn’t quite make 
it first semester -- another organizational 
meeting on January 25, 1976 at 6 pm.
For anyone who wants information on 
the CMUSC, call Brian Jackson at 682- 
9490 or write Box 653, 5515 Margaret 
Morrison Ave., Pittsburgh, PA 15213. 
And remember - as the club says -- “Prac­
tice makes perfect.”
university policy , or 3) an incorpora­
tion of three publications. Expanding the 
present “A Very Personal Experience” ad­
missions material printed every year, a cat­
alogue printed every two years containing 
the statement of university policy and 
faculty, and a course description printed 
yearly on cheaper newsprint for student 
use.
These are just 3 of the many ideas to 
come up. They will be discussed in the 
next few months and one of them decided 
upon. Elliott pointed out he believes the 
last would be the least expensive and serve 
the greatest number of people.
Thursday Afternoon 
Luncheon - Forum
CMU Drama Dept.’s 
PARK PLAYERS Present:
A Child’s
Christmas
jn WalesProblem Solving Forum by Dylan Thomas
by Debbie Rosenkrantz
‘Problem Solving and Your Educa­
tion’ was the topic of the first forum spon­
sored by the Education and Culture 
Committee of the Mudge Graduate House. 
Participants in the forum were President 
Cyert, Dean Midani (of Fine Arts), Pro­
fessor Hayes (of Psychology), Professor 
Steinberg (of English), and Professor 
Teare (of CIT). President Cyert, opening 
the discussion with his definition of prob­
lem solving , stressed the use of ‘heuristics’, 
or a ‘guide to solving a problem’.
Professor Steinberg stated 5 steps 
that he had used in teaching composition 
to engineering and science students as 1) 
define the problem 2) plan a solution 3) 
execute 4) check and 5) learn from the 
process. Professor Steinberg stressed that 
all problems can be solved both rationally 
rigorously. Professor Teare stated that 
‘Engineering is problem solving’. He 
brought out the fact that problem solving 
includes the decision of whether a prob­
lem really exists and whether it is worth 
solving under the given circumstances. 
Dean Midani, while agreeing that problem 
solving can be used in Fine Arts ‘hopes for
more complex and sophisticated methods’ 
to allow for the imaginative process. Pro­
fessor Hayes , in discussing the objection 
most frequently raised to ‘problem solv­
ing said that problem solving implies a 
means to most people without helping us 
decide what the end should be.
Chairman of the sponsoring committee, 
John Conant, said ‘Our committee hopes 
to involve the entire university in the pro­
cess of discussing and re-evaluating its 
goals and policies. This forum is the first 
this year planned for this purpose.’
Housing
continued from page 5Mr. Zalewski stated that he agrees 
with the policy as set down by the commi­
ttee. However, Mark Fox, the represen­
tative from Mudge, stated ‘A definate 
commitment must be made by the admin­
istration to keep Mudge a graduate house.’ 
This does not mean that he wants to ex­
clude all undergraduates; he does want a 
guarantee that graduates students will al­
ways be given first choice in Mudge.
tlf * *»•»*• #* fr. »«t I
12:30 Wherrett Room 
Bring lunch and a friend

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-November 25, 1975-Page 7
Who Killed Kennedy?
by Joan Konkle
On Monday, November 17, the reknowned 
lawyer and civil rights advocate Mark Lane 
spoke to a full house at the Skibo Ballroom 
about the assassination of John F. 
Kennedy, which took place 12 years ago 
on November 22.
Mr. Lane’s interest in the assassination 
is due in part to the fact that Lee Harvey
Oswald’s mother asked him to defend her 
son, which he agreed to do. Because Os­
wald was killed two days after his arrest by 
Jack Ruby in the Dallas jailhouse, Lane 
had to ask the court’s permission to defend 
a dead man. This permission was denied, al­
though dead persons have been defended 
before in court.
Even though he could not defend Os­
wald, he continued to carefully follow and 
analyze all the facts that were brought out 
about what happened, and why, on that 
tragic day. He was especially concerned 
with the Warren Report, written by a com­
mission headed by then Chief Justice Earl 
Warren, that was appointed by Lyndon 
Johnson to officially investigate the assas­
sination.
During these dozen years of intense re­
search and investigation, Lane has dis­
covered, and uncovered, a multitude of 
facts that question nearly all the assump­
tions and so-called facts that the American 
people have believed to be true.
Americans based their opinion about 
the assassination on information published 
in the Warren Report, which contained 
thousands and thousands of pages of evi­
dence and testimony about the assassin­
ation.
But, according to Lane, the Warren 
Commission made many, many errors, and 
most of these can be attributed at least in 
part to the Commission’s view, which* its 
members held from the very beginning, 
that Oswald alone planned and carried out 
the assassination. Any facts that were con­
tradictory to this assumption were either 
ignored or twisted until they did support 
this idea.
Probably the best example of the Com­
mission’s attempt to make facts fit their 
preconceived notions is the “Magic Bullet” 
Theory. By using a spectator’s film of the 
assassination, it was determined that Os­
wald could have fired only three shots. 
Two of the bullets definitely hit Kennedy 
in the head, and grazed a spectator. By 
refusing to even consider the idea that 
there were two or more people firing, the 
Commission had to invent a complicated 
scenario whereby it was possible for that 
one “magic bullet” to cause the other five 
gunshot wounds that Kennedy, and Texas 
Governor John Connally suffered that day. 
This meant that the bullet, which was 
fired from a sixth floor window with a $3 
gun had to do a lot of ricocheting, so 
much, that it would seem impossible. But 
what is even more incredible is that the 
bullet was in almost perfect condition, 
even though supposedly it hit Governor 
Connally’s wrist bone, one of the hardest 
bones in the body, and caused such a 
massive chest wound that he nearly died 
from it. It seems impossible that anyone 
would believe such a story, yet because of 
the Commission’s authority people ac­
cepted it as the truth, even people who wit­
nessed the assassination that day and had 
heard shots coming from another place 
than where Oswald was stationed.
If it is true that Oswald could have 
possibly fired only three shots and that 
three shots could not have caused all the 
wounds, it would mean that there was 
some sort of plot or conspiracy to kill 
Kennedy. Since no one saw Oswald fire 
any shots and the only evidence against 
him is that his fingerprints were found on 
the gun, it might even be possible that 
Oswald was just a fall guy not at all in­
volved with the plot. In light of what has 
been recently uncovered about the actions
of intelligence agencies, it is possible that 
either the FBI or the CIA organized or 
allowed another group to carry out the 
assassination. Neither the FBI or tTTe CIA 
were on good terms with Kennedy — and 
Kennedy had told the CIA that he would 
shatter it into a thousand pieces. The FBI 
has finally admitted that it withheld evi­
dence from the Warren Commission, so 
both groups are possible suspects.
Lane, however refused to speculate on 
who killed Kennedy or why. He feels that 
if all the evidence is known, then it will not 
be difficult to determine who did it. Much 
important information has been classified, 
often illegally, and in order to get this in-
Career Notes:
Enrollment planning is more than aca 
demic schedules, 3D forms, add/drop 
cards, and registration or enrollment day 
activities. The Office of Career Services and 
Placement (CS&P) is an important part ol 
the enrollment group. One reason people 
pursue a college education is to enhance 
their opportunities for professional and 
economic success. Therefore, career plan­
ning should be part of a student’s college 
program and a service offered by the col­
lege. A college education should be some­
thing more than selected courses scheduled 
in random order. Care should be taken in 
building an academic experience which 
will achieve a student’s self-appointed goal. 
This can be done, but it takes planning, 
and planning takes information and advice. 
Students seek input from faculty, depart­
ment heads, and deans. The facilities of 
the CS&P Office should be used in a similar 
manner. In the CS&P library or from the 
CS&P staff member, information is avail­
able concerning current and projected job 
openings and skill demand. Graduate 
school information and projected job open­
ings for students with advanced degrees is 
also available.
The placement activities of CS&P are 
most obvious to seniors who frequent the 
office for job interviews or faculty who 
meet with employer representatives when 
they visit our campus. Many students and 
faculty look upon the CS&P staff as job 
brokers. The CS&P Office is a busy 
place, but what would you expect at a 
university such asCMU?
FREE PREGNANCY 
TESTS
ALLEGHENY WOMEN'S 
CENTER 
MON.-FRI. 9-5 SAT. 8-4
FOR INFO:
362-2920
formation and to reopen the official inves­
tigation into the assassination , he has 
formed an organization called the Citizens 
Commission of Inquiry (CCI).
Before he left, he asked for volunteers 
to start a CCI here, and since there were
some volunteers more information about 
the group should be available soon. With 
the efforts of the CCI, and with the sup­
port of an increasing number of Congress­
men who believe that there should be a 
new investigation, we should know in the 
not too distant future what we thought we 
already knew: who killed President
Kennedy?
Placements
Success in job placement is more than 
interviews, grades, QPA or departmental 
majors. One way the CS&P staff has been 
of assistance is by exposing students to 
professionals engaged in the field to which 
they aspire. Specific departmental pro­
grams on career outlooks have been held in 
Electrical Engineering, Chemical Engineer­
ing, GSIA, Chemistry, Music and History. 
Other programs could and should be ar­
ranged. (See Dennis Ryan, Warner Hall 19, 
if you would like to arrange a program for 
your department.) Other programs held on 
campus which have provided valuable 
information include: Advertising - What 
It Is, What is the Future in this Business, 
Medical School Admissions Practices and 
Standards, Law School as seen by CMU 
Graduates now in Law School, Job Oppor­
tunities in the Federal Government, Coun­
seling for an MBA, The Practice of Law .. . 
What Option? and Employer Standards for 
Selecting New Employees. A benefit of 
such services is that students can gain first­
hand knowledge as to those courses which 
have been most helpful in evaluating or 
enhancing a professional career. This in­
formation can be useful for course, selec­
tion. Regardless of what a student’s major 
is, background in computer science, statis­
tics, accounting, or management could be 
useful in landing that first job. There are 
many possibilities ... the choice is yours.
In an article appearing in the Fall 1975 
issue of the Occupational Outlook Quarter­
ly, Dr. Bernard J. Lammers of St. Law­
rence University asserts there is no “magic 
major” a student can select as the best 
preparation for law school studies. Accord­
ing to Lammers, law school deans want to 
be convinced that applicants have done 
serious work in college and show evidence 
they have learned to think, study, write 
and analyze problems.
The senate and house have voted to 
increase federal civil service salaries by 5% 
effective October 1, 1975. This increase 
will also be applied to entry level salaries 
and college and univerv.ty graduates.
William F. EUiott 
Vice Provost for 
Enrollment^Plannmg

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—THE TARTAN-November 25,1975
CMAP: An Emphasis On Graduating Blacks
by Stephen Warren
“Because the emphasis of this program 
is on graduating blacks out of Carnegie- 
Mellon, we need a very good tutoring 
program ? and very good personal counsel­
ing program, things that are going to make 
blacks feel comfortable in this university, 
so that they don’t leave at the first sign of 
pressure.”
Thus, Dr. Marion Oliver, Director of 
C-MAP (Càrnegie-Mellon Action Project), 
affirmed the campus need for this service 
to minorities. He also observed that mis­
conceptions about it have existed.
According to Mr. Mel Lewis, Deputy 
Director, C-MAP was originally designed 
“to increase minority population in the 
mainstream of the university-that is, in 
engineering and science. Traditionally, 
minorities have not been in the engineering 
and science areas.
“It is our mission to try to recruit and 
have admitted and more importantly- 
to graduate minority students from CMU. 
so that they can go out into the commu­
nity to work.”
Located on uie fourth floor of the 
Margaret Morrison Building, C-MAP is a 
center where minority students-and some 
whites--have found help with problems, 
both academic and personal. While not 
restricted only to minorities, particularly 
blacks, C-MAP does concentrate on these 
students, because they have shown a 
greater need. Any excessive expansion of 
its services might sacrifice personal quality 
of either tutoring or counseling. Ms. Eddie 
Buckner, Secretary to the Director, noted, 
“Before C-MAP could be made on a 
campus-wide basis, we would need a larger 
staff to accomodate the increase.”
At present, C-MAP’s five instructor/ 
tutors and hired tutors (graduate, under­
graduate and C-MAP students) work with 
nearly 100 people wanting academic aid.
“We have opened C-MAP on a limited 
basis to the university,” declared Ms. Carol 
Cohen, advisor-. “We have written to every 
instructor, and we have told them that, if 
they detect someone in the class whom 
they feel is in need of help, to send that 
person to us and we will offer him our ser­
vices.
“We have now a white population as 
well as a black population, but,” she add­
ed, “we can’t open it up at this point to 
everybody, because we pay the tutors.” 
Ms. Cohen related that C-MAP does 
“a lot of its own funding. We go to corpo­
rations to ask for aid. We also get money 
from F-101, which is a Pennsulvania act 
to provide educational opportunités to 
‘educationally disadvantaged students.’ We 
also have some support from the Universi­
ty.”
As Dr. Oliver clarified, “C-MAP never 
eontroleë financial aid for the students. A 
misconception has plagued the program 
in previous years that C-MAP offers blacks 
a ‘free education.’ This, according to the 
Director, is false. ‘There used to be a 
difference: Whites had to borrow more, 
rather than receiving scholarships. But 
loans are now about the same.”
Ms. Marilyn Belkin, Director of Aca­
demic Affairs and Research verified: 
“C-MAP does not have anything to do with 
scholarship aid. We do not give scholar­
ships; the school gives scholarships. Every 
C-MAP student goes through the Financial 
Aid Office just like anybody else.” 
That is* they receive aid through work- 
studv. state aid, loans, Basic Educational 
Opportunity Grants, etc.
Neither is it trn iat C-MAP students 
have some classic advantage. In fact, 
observed Deputy Director Lewis, “It’s 
e difficult for C-MAP students, because 
of their educational backrounds are
not as good. They’re put in class with 
students who have already had basic 
courses in high school. They put in a 
lot more time.”
Agreed Ms. Belkin: “I believe that any 
of our students can graduate from Carne- 
gie-Mellon. It only takes a real motivation, 
a lot of hard work. A lot of our students 
have to work harder than the student who 
comes here with extremely high Board 
scores... These students are really work­
ing. They’re not getting away with murder: 
they’re really putting in the time. It’s 
really something to watch.”
Ms. Cohen related another aspect of 
C-MAP’s academic program: “We encour­
age C-MAP students to take courses 
because we know that, in the courses that 
we have ear-marked some of the teachers 
for the‘students are going to give a lot of 
time. There is a commitment.”
In fact, several self-paced courses have 
been designed for C-MAP participation; 
these are two-semester courses which cover 
the same material--and more-than a similar 
class would include in a single semester. 
Mr. Harry Chmelynski, teacher 
and academic counselor, instructs such a 
course in Physics I. He noted, “This allows 
us time to pick up a lot of backround 
difficulties, remedial algebra, and trigono­
metric skills. When students are done with 
that course, they’re supposed to move on 
to the regular Physics II and Physics III 
courses.
Since most of our tutoring and special 
course offerings are only at the freshman/ 
sophomore level, tutoring, in the long run, 
is not what determines graduation. It’s 
up to the students, themselves, to graduate. 
You really can’t tutor upperclass courses, 
because the person, by then, should be a 
specialist in his field, and it’s hard to find 
tutors who can specialize in what he’s 
doing.”
Jeri Maggiore and Kim Susko, two non­
minority juniors being tutored in Probabil­
ity and Statistics, commented about 
C-MAP’s academic aid. Declared Kim, 
“I think it’s great, because I got really 
behind in this subject, and if I didn’t 
have this tutoring, I would have had to 
drop it completely.”
Jeri indicated that students still may 
not be aware that this service exists: “I 
tell friends that I’m being tutored and they 
say, ‘Oh, who’s doing it?’ I say, ‘It’s done 
through C-MAP.’ Some people even ask me 
what that is; they’ve never heard of it...”
C-MAP’s other chief phase, besides
tutoring, is counseling: “an important part 
of the program,” according to Ms. Gloria 
Hill, Director of? Affect Development.
“A lot of students,” she said, “particu­
larly the incoming students, see C-MAP 
primarily as an academic unit; they know 
about the tutoring. But, even though we 
try to include information about personal 
counseling in all our literature and presen­
tations, students somehow don’t realize 
that this service exists for them.”
Ms. Hill elaborated that .. a lot of 
times, problems are meshed. Students 
come in with personal problems that may 
spill over into academics, or vice-versa.” 
These problems range from the average 
to the sometimes severe; if a person is 
believed to need more intensive counseling 
than the department allows, he is referred 
to some outside agency, which might pro­
vide more professional understanding.
Counselor Chmelynsky continued: 
“We’ve been offering rather extensive 
counseling sevices to the minorities stu­
dents, and I, for one, would like to see that 
extended to non-minority students who 
meet whatever classifications there are that 
we have to work under.
“But, again, that’s a resource-limited 
area. It’s not anything like tutoring. You 
really do have to hire people who are weL’ 
versed in all the different departments, 
who can spend an appreciable amount 
of their time and seriously approach that 
job as part of their duties.”
In answering the proposal of C-MAP 
expansion to all students, Mr. Chmelynsky 
explained: “There’s a serious question as to 
whether the non-minorities students on 
campus need those counseling sevices as 
much as the minorities students, who 
might come from a completely different 
backround, as far as their relationships 
with professors and their own departmen­
tal advisors.
“It may be that some students need 
counseling more than others, whereas 
everybody needs tutoring at the same 
level of need. Counseling is in a transition 
phase; it’s hard to make some firm state­
ments about how it’s going to be done in 
the future.”
“If we get too many more students, 
then I think the quality of the counseling 
goes down - unless we get a lot more staff
counselors. An overload may happen if 
we misplan; we cannot just open services 
on a walk-in basis.”
Many other facets of C-MAP exist; Ms. 
Hill cited that C-MAP also does “a lot of 
career programming. We have seminars on 
business and graduate school and medical 
school and the medical profession, so that 
the students, beyond getting academic 
preparation, can do some life planning, 
find out where they’re going once they 
leave here.
“We try to do more than just get them 
here. We try to get them through and 
give them some kind of direction or some 
information from which they can choose 
their direction for when they leave. We do 
a lot of things.”
Milagros Gonzalez, a junior majoring in 
civil engineering, remarked that this career 
programming “helps in determining 
whether you’re into the right places if 
you’re interested mainly in getting a job 
when you graduate, or just getting a de­
gree.” She also mentioned that C-MAP 
could help students find summer jobs.
Mike Hopkins, a senior majoring in civil 
engineering and AMS, commented: “Pitts­
burgh was totally new to me. C-MAP was 
something that I could relate to, something 
that made me feel somewhat comfortable 
to the fact that I have somebody looking 
out for me, and I wasn’t just tossed out 
here on my own.
“C-MAP plays multiple purposes. In my 
case, it served as a big brother, it generate 
a certain type of information that wa. 
pertinent to my survival here.
“It was also a place to acquire resources 
that would help me alleviate some of the 
problems I might encounter. It served as a 
means for me to achieve certain goals that I 
had. C-MAP offers certain outlets that are a 
necessity for anyone to have when he’s 
subjected to constant pressure.”
“But,” contended Everett Tademy, a 
graduate student majoring in public ad­
ministration, “it’s not until you can really 
see the benefits that you say it was worth 
the cost of coming up here and talking 
with different people.
“I think most students have a good 
feeling about it. . .C-MAP is okay; it's 
about people.”
STAR TREK
VIDMUK ft CO.
Artist'sSupplies
209 S. Craig St. 
Oakland 
621-0529
9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Daily
10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Saturdays
TECHNICAL MANUAL
Fully
Illustrated
.1
UFP
TRAINING COMMAND STAR FLEET ACADEMY
ARTICLES OF FEDERATION 
FEDERATION FLAGS, 
SEALS &. UNIFORMS
STAR FLEET ORGANIZATION 
DETAILED SCHEMATICS 
OF STAR FLEET EQUIPMENT
NAVIGATIONAL CHARTS &. EQUIPMENT\RTS INTERSTELLAR SPACE/WARP
TECHNOLOGY ;
FEDERATION CODES
C-MU BOOKSTORE

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-THE TARTAN-November 25,1975
Moldy 
Slices
Jackie Kennedy 
Attends CMU
"I look forward to an America which will reward achievement in The arts as we reward
achievement in business or Statecraft. —John F. Kennedy, October 26, 1963 ina speech at Amherst College
by Rick Costa
October 20, 1968 Jackie Kennedy marries Aristotle 
Onassis on his island of Skorpios after having previously 
signed a 170 clause contract in which she relinquished 
her right to & of his estate and which established finan­
cial guidelines if the marriage should break up. Catholics 
all across the United States throw away their plastic 
dishes and wall plaques honoring President Kennedy and 
cancel their subscriptions to McCalls and Ladies Home 
Journal.
October 23, 1968 Jackie flies to New York and Ari to 
Athens. During the first year of their marriage they 
spend seven months together.
October 20, 1969 Ari has given Jackie an estimated 5 
million dollars in jewelry. Every two weeks he would 
have a piece placed on her breakfast tray, such as having 
a string of pearls wrapped around her breakfast roll.
May 10, 1972 Richard Cyert is announced as the new 
president of Carnegie -Mellon University after the major­
ity of students have left the campus.
July 17, 1972 In one of his first official acts, President 
Cyert decides against a new building for the Department 
of Drama.
January 23, 1973 Arnold Weber becomes dean of GSIA 
and provost of H&SS and SUPA.
February 1973 Professor James Qualben of the Depart­
ment of History is denied tenure.
November 20, 1973 Five professors in the Department 
of Psychology are fired because they are more con­
cerned with teaching than research.
December 4, 1973 President Cyert reveals proposals de­
signed to introduce a program that would connect H&SS 
with GSIA.
January 3, 1974 Ari writes his will on a flight from Aca­
pulco to New York. Most of his estate goes to his daugh­
ter Christina, while Jackie is granted a yearly income of 
$250,000 to be adjusted for inflation. She gets 25% 
ownership of the yacht Christina and Skorpios and any 
attempt on her part to contest the will is to be opposed 
by all possible legal means.
February 12, 1974 Professor Russell Brignano of the 
Department of English and Professor John Renaldo of 
the Department of History are denied tenure.
March 5, 1974 H&SS courses are reduced from 12 to 9 
units.
April 9, 1974 President Cyert throws out the first pitch 
in the Pittsburgh Pirate home opener.
September 24, 1974 Edwin Steinburg, Dean of H&SS 
resigns, and declines to comment on whether his suc­
cessor will be a humanist or a social scientist.
March 15, 1975 Aristotle Onassis dies in a Paris hospital. 
Jackie is in New York at the time.
September 1975 The Applied History/Applied Social 
Sciences program is introduced in a preliminary move to 
create a new undergraduate Department of Social 
Sciences.
September 16, 1975 John Crecine becomes Dean of 
H&SS and resolves to convert it to an undergraduate 
SUPA.
September 1975 Jackie goes to work for Viking Press, 
Inc., as a consulting editor.
October 30, 1975 President Cyert mentions the possibil­
ity of phasing out the granting of degrees in the humani­
ties.
October 1975 Jackie begins negotiating with Ari’s execu­
tors for an additional $100,000 a year income in return 
for not contesting Ari’s will.
January 7, 1976 Calculus becomes a requirement for any 
degree in English or History.
June 14, 1976 H&SS is subsumed under the auspices of 
SUPA. The Department of English is renamed the De­
partment of Operational Communications and Linguistic 
Analysis. The Department of History becomes the De­
partment of Applied Social Sciences.
September 1, 1976 Jackie enrolls at Carnegie -Mellon 
University in the Department of English (now the De­
partment of OCLA). She wants to gain firsthand the ex­
pertise needed in the fight to contest Ari’s will and ob­
tain the financial skills needed to manage her reduced 
income stream. President Cyert is overjoyed. If John 
Kennedy Jr. and Ted and Robert Kennedy’s children fol­
low Jackie to CMU, then her decision will dovetail nicely 
with his new promotional strategy that Cambridge is a 
nice place to visit but I wouldn’t want to attend college 
there.
September 4, 1976 Jackie has her maid register for her. 
She follows this practice for the next four years.
September 6, 1976 President Cyert gets his picture on 
the cover of McCalls.
September 8, 1976 President Cyert gets his picture on 
the cover of the National Enquirer.
September 9, 1976 President Cyert goes on Merv Griffin 
show.
September 12, 1976 When it is learned that Jackie is 
coming to CMU, speculation rages among the several 
sororities that one of them will be able to pledge her. 
These hopes are dashed when it is learned that Jackie 
had belonged to a sorority when she attended Vassar.
September 13, 1976 When it is learned that Jackie is 
coming to CMU, specualtion rages in the fraternities that 
Jackie, after 7 years of marriage to an old man, is now 
interested in finding a young ram.
September 19; 1976 Jackie rents a whole floor of D 
Tower in Morewood Gardens to use while attending 
CMU. She installs walk-in cupboards and builds her own 
kitchen for her own French Chef. She had been staying 
in the William Penn Hotel.
September 24, 1976 Truman Capote visits Jackie on 
campus and grants an interview to the TARTAN.
October 1976 Jackie goes to the Mediterranean for the 
month of October.

---------------------------------------------------

TRAPEZE
THE TARTAN—November;25, 1975-Page 11
November 4, 1976 Reporters ask Jackie, who is wearing 
a beige belted shirt jacket, matching turtleneck and high- 
rise pants, if she is going to vote for Ted Kennedy or 
Gerald Ford for president. She replies what a silly ques­
tion.
January 17, 1977 Jackie, wearing a turquoise halter- 
dress, rebuffs her professor in American Foreign Policy 
and GNP when he calls De Gaulle, one of her favorite 
Frenchmen, obstinate.
February 1977 Jackie goes skiing in Switzerland for 
the month of February.
March 8, 1977 In an outburst of creativity the TARTAN 
begins to reprint the articles Jackie wrote for the Wash­
ington Times-Herald before she married John Kennedy. 
The subjects included were are men more afraid of the 
dentist’s chair than women and can you spot a married 
man.
May 1, 1977 President Cyert appears on the cover 
article of People magazine. He discusses frankly Jackie’s 
first year’s performance at CMU.
September 15, 1977 President builds a heated stable on 
the intramural field so that Jackie can ride her favorite 
horse while at Carnegie -Mellon. She practices jumping 
over bike racks.
October 1977 Jackie goes to the Bahamas for the month 
of October.
November 1977 Jackie begins to throw soirees at her 
rooms in Morewood Gardens for interesting students. 
The invitations are much sought after.
November 5, 1977 Jackie throws a soiree for the Eng­
lish and creative writing majors (now in the Department 
of OCLA). She wears a peasant smock with round neck­
line and velvet fly-front skirt with trouser pleats. Bavari­
an ale in tankards is bought for the occassion and 
sausage are served. They try to impress her, but this is a 
woman that has met Norman Mailer, John Paul Sartre 
and John Updike in person. The party ends early.
November 20, 1977 Jackie, wearing a navy and white 
striped cotton carpenter’s jacket and recycled jeans, 
throws a soiree for the painting and sculpture and design 
majors. Only the design majors come, for the painters 
believe that her close and open association with money 
will stifle their talents. Cheese and wine are served.
Jackie’s suite in Morewood has little tables tucked in 
corners and along the walls to create the impression of 
a French cafe. The design majors admire Jackie’s water- 
colors of horses and cherry blossoms and try to enter­
tain her, but this is a woman that has met Pablo Picasso, 
Mate Chagall and Max Ernst in person. The party breaks 
up early, but not before the wine and clieese has been 
consumed.
November 20, 1977 Jackie stops giving soirees for inter­
esting people.
February 17, 1978 Jackie gets a C- in her Language of 
Loopholes midterm.
September 24, 1978 Jackie is having difficulty in her 
Poetic Metaphor as a Persuasive Device seminar and 
meets with the instructor for outside help. This leads to 
specualtion in the press that Jackie, is having an affair 
with the professor.
November 22, 1978 Jackie goes to her first frat party 
whffe at CMU. Not being used to cheap beer, she vomits 
all over her Greek fisherman’s sweater and rust denim 
jeans and jacket with shearling-pile collar and sleeves 
and has to leave early.
April 5, 1978 Frank Sinatra visits Jackie on campus and 
refuses to grant an interview to the TARTAN. Jackie 
wears a mint cowl-necked dress with turtle-shaped, 
apricot-colored buttons.
March 15, 1979 Jackie, in a mink tweed coat, white 
muffler and trouser-pleated jumpsuit in thin stripes of 
black and ivory, is sitting at a table in Skibo and the stu­
dents around the table begin playing where were you 
when you heard that John Kennedy had been asassin- 
ated. I was playing doctor with my cousin. I didn’t know 
anything about it until 3 years after he had been shot. 
Jackie leaves the table.
September 8, 1979 Ralph Nader sues Carnegie -Mellon 
University in federal court for misrepresentation. He 
wants the name changed to Carnegie -Mellon Institute 
of Technology.
December 10, 1979 Jackie gets an A on her final paper 
in Historical Forces in Business Decisions. In her paper 
she discusses from first-hand knowledge the true motives 
of President Kennedy’s actions in the Bay of Pigs inci­
dent.
April 2, 1980 Warren Beatty visits Jackie on campus 
and escorts her to a drama production. She is wearing a 
belted shirt jacket, black paratrooper pants and a nylon 
Danskin leotard.
May 4, 1980 Jackie graduates from Carnegie -Mellon 
University with honors. All the major networks have 
camera crews on campus to cover the event. When they 
pan the graduating students, the students wave at the 
camera like the crowds at a football game do when the 
camera is on them.
GRADUATE SCHOLARSHIPS IN JEWISH 
COMMUNITY ORGANIZATION 
PROGRAM AVAILABLE
College Seniors and Graduate Students are invited to apply 
for a specialized program of graduate education (Masters 
degree) with special emphasis on: Community Organization, 
Social Agency Management, Administration, Community 
Planning, Fund Raising, and Budgeting. Upon completion of 
graduate education and training, professional positions and 
long term careers with Jewish Federations will be available. 
Any major sequence may qualify with at least a 3. (B) 
academic average.
For descriptive material and on-campus interviews in 
November & December, write or call: 
Mr. Saul Weisberg 
United Jewish Federation of Greater Pgh. 
234 McKee Place Pgh., Pa. 15213 681-8000
FAST INEXPENSIVE 
PRINTING
cgiR cgiiR:*
INSTANT PRINTING CENTER
98 Penn Circle West, Corner Penn Ave. E. Liberty 
(Ample Parking in Thorofare Parking Lot)
362-4445
REPORTS • RESUMES • CATALOGS • POSTERS 
LETTERHEADS • BUSINESS CARDS • FLYERS 
OFFICE FORMS • BOOKLETS • SCHEDULES

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12-THE TARTAN-November 25, 1975
A AT FASHION
LOOK
Photos by Kathi Leichter
'• VA

---------------------------------------------------

AT

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14-THE TARTAN-November 25, 1975TRAPEZE
The Roots of Inflation
“ Look at all the lonely people. Where do they come 
from?”
-Lennon and McCartney, “Eleanor Rigby”
“By the tirrje we get to Woodstock we were half a 
million strong.”
-Joni Witchell, “Woodstock”
“We no longer give the surplus to God; the process of 
producing an ever expanding surplus is in itself now 
our God.”
-Norman O. Brown, Life Against Death
by Rick Costa
There are two main casuses for the current wave of 
inflation and corresponding unemployment in the 
United States: 1) the ability of large companies to man­
ipulate price; 2) the rapacious demand of American 
comsumers for goods. The first factor could be elimi­
nated through legal measures, were the willingness to do 
so present. The second factor results from the psycho­
logical makeup of the American in the 1970s. The 
cornerstone of that psychology is fear of death. If 
inflation, as a mass phenomenon, is to be dealt with at 
all effectively, changes must occur on the most basic 
level, that is, in people’s heads.
In Totem and Taboo Freud states, “The beginnings of 
religion, morals, society and art converge in the Oedipus 
Complex.” The Oedipus Complex is the reaction of the 
human individual to the fact that he is neither a god nor 
immortal and his acceptance of social restraints. The 
individual never really accepts the fact of his own mor­
tality and devises methods to overcome this obstacle. 
The devising of these methods and the subconsious logic 
of them constitute what is normally called culture of
civilization. Each age tries a suitable method to over­
come the unalterable fact of death. Although the resul­
ting schemes have to meet certain physical and geo­
graphic constrainsts, their basic allegiance is to the logic 
of the subconscious.
As an indication of its naturalness, one of the first 
methods devised was religious communion or fellow­
ship. The hierarchical structure of Medieval Catholicism 
is the supreme expression of this method. However, 
from necessity this method was inadequate and this 
inadequacy led to a search for new methods and to 
scientific discoveries that further poked holes in the 
Medieval world view.
Mankind in the West turned from a group solution to 
one of the individual. The result of this shift was the 
growth of laissez faire capitalism and political theories 
stressing individual liberty, such as that embodied in the 
Declaration of Independence, In orthodox modern 
economic theory, dating from Adam Smith, man is 
treated as an individual consuming unit as an a priori 
postulate. Each man would now become a god through 
his own efforts of accumulating material goods. Con­
sumption replaced communion. Before noting the sig­
nificance of this shift as regards inflation, a few other 
manifestations of the shift are evident.
First, the metaphor of the loner becomes idealized 
in American literature and popular culture. Huck Finn.is 
happiest on his raft out in the middle of the Mississippi. 
Of course, the greatest expression of this in American 
literature is Thoreau’s Walden. The occurance of this 
phenomenon in each American Western is almost a sure­
ty. A similar manifestation is the appearance of existen­
tialism. Man feels unable to communicate with those 
around him and even* nature is unhospitable, a tech­
nological desert. In this instance being alone is not 
usually idealized as it was in the former example. Final­
ly, many of the social and political movements since the 
Renaisance can be traced to the desire to recover the lost
o ¦
D is the demand that would result from a non­
neurotic need to consume. Since consumation has 
religious significance demand shifts to D* and price 
increases to p.* Note that D* is more inelastic than D.
.communion. The appearance of communism, national­
ism and totalitarianism, where the individual wants to 
melt into a larger social group, can be traced to this 
shift. Unfortunately, these movements return a sense of 
group solidarity to man while removing his humanity.
Since the American credo is an expression of this 
shift, the cause of the recent inflation is apparent. Since 
the demand for goods has an almost religious signifi- 
continued on page 15
I
VVednesday «December 10*1975«Skibo 
Ballroom-6:30 pm-LOO with food 
contract-450 without-2^5 children
*1 I ¦¦t:
9.1 tkisnfe*~~
jwnnMf Tickets available at Skibo Information 
Desk (to staff & students) or Faculty 
Senate Office (to faculty & staff)-
snfe* cd£bRATlON:FEESTiVND HSnvrrEE
Sponsored by the Department of Student Activities, Medieval Semester Committee & Social and Welfare Committee, Faculty Senate-
university!
?
*

---------------------------------------------------

continued from page 14
cance, demand does not fall and prices remain high. This 
is all the momentum that is needed to maintain the 
wage-price spiral. On the contrary, as Norman O. Brown 
states in Life Against Death, “Stability of prices is a 
general characteristic of the archaic economy, because 
prices are rigidly determined by custom and not by sup­
ply and demand.” The recently discovered shortage of 
raw materials only leads to a further contraction of sup­
ply and to a larger gap between demand and supply. In 
fact, inflation may actually lead to increased demand. 
To be able to accumulate during hard times is seen as 
laudable, like resisiting the temptations of Satan in the 
Wilderness for forty days.
In our time, other solutions besides accumulation 
have been attempted. The most important of these is 
romantic love, The lovers worship each other into 
heaven. The connection between death and romantic 
love becomes evident in a novel like Love Story and the 
take-offs from Segal’s novel have not ceased to this 
day. However, romantic love often has a forced, neurotic 
quality to it and is often unsuccessful. The failure of 
this solution in a large majority of cases is evident in the 
rising divorce rate. Another recently attempted solution 
has been the formation of a group which consciously 
identifies itself as adolescent or young adult. During the 
1950s the appearance of a rock or peer group culture 
emerged in the United States and continues to the 
present. However, the rapid shifts in tastes and styles 
illustrate the lack of satisfaction found in this method, 
because the adolescents had been too thoroughly innun- 
dated by the individualistic beliefs of their parents. 
Indeed, much of the emphasis of the counterculture of 
the late 60s was on doing your own thing. Other partial­
ly adopted solutions have been patriotism, racism, sexual 
prowness and athletics.
The only satisfactory cure for inflation would be for 
man to establish a sense of group solidarity which still 
allows him a meaningful measure of freedom. Of course, 
this is easier said than done. A solution of religious 
proportions must be found in a nation where there are 
few if any to be had. Until that time, all this fiddling 
with the tax rate and the money supply is like tuning the 
color on a tv when the plug is pulled out.
TRAPEZE
THE TARTAN—November 25, 1975—Page 15
A Nation Marches On Its Stomach
by Kris Mamula
Supported by recent medical findings, fasting is once 
again enjoying immense popularity. Particularly mem­
bers of the student community attest to the beneficial 
effects of fasting and fasting clubs are forming nation­
wide. The upsurge in popularity has largely been the re­
sult of a study made by Dr. Albrect Frundt which notes 
fewer physical ailments and prolonged life as some of 
the beneficial effects of fasting. In subjects with hearing 
loss or partial loss of sensitivity in the fingers, Dr. 
Frundt’s exhaustive study reports ‘substantial improve­
ments’ from fasting. In a recent interview, Dr. Frundt 
explained his interest in fasting beginning when he was 
growing up in rural Ohio. As a child he was puzzled by 
the behavior of a pet when it was sick; it refused to eat. 
The young Dr. Frundt would note improvement soon 
after in the animal and it would begin to eat again. He 
dedicated his life to the unravelling of this puzzle which 
has only the appearance of being simple, and finally 
synthesized his findings in his recent study.
This interest in the concept of fasting is certainly 
not a new one. Dr. Bernard MacFadden reported in 1933 
that one perfectly normal patient of his fasted as an ex­
periment. (A firm believer in fasting, Dr. MacFadden 
claimed to have cured himself of pnemonia once by 
fasting.) After five and a half weeks without food the 
patient reported feeling . . especially clear-headed, 
refreshed and had an idea for an invention . . . wooden 
shoes with propellers that would take one across the
sea.” It has again come time to call an end to these ex­
periments and properly classify their findings: Hogwash. 
The statement by Dr. MacFadden’s patient is nothing 
more than delusions of a man driven to his limits of en­
durance through deprivation of vital nutrients.
Dr. Albrect Frundt, his colleagues and all who sup­
port them should be horse whipped, deprived of their 
voting rights and fed to the gulls off the Atlantic coast. 
The fast of the matter is, fasting - the deprivation of 
food, violates every natural instinct of Man. Animals 
avoid food when they’re sick precisely because they’re 
animals, they don’t know any better. Every thinking 
American is well aware of the calming effect ordinary 
stuffing of the gullet has on the individual’s thought 
process. And the wise of this country’s populace know 
the profound feeling of invigoration that results from 
concentrated gorging. The spirit of Anse Bundren must 
be rekindled. Mr. Bundren was awarded the Smiling 
Hang-Dog Award of 1843 for his unflagging determina­
tion to eat ‘God’s own victuals.’ Few men have suffered 
the torments of summer heat and floods to be able to 
get their teeth. Most of us are blessed with the teeth 
necessary to compulsively and habitually overeat; and
it is the responsibility of every American to do so. Since 
at least one far sighted government official has pre­
dicted the fall of the economy should this fasting trend 
proliferate, it is essential that this movement, the pro­
duct of minds gone soft, be crushed.
rFREE PREGNANCY TEST AND RELATED COUNCILING 
MONDAY--SATURDAY 9:00-5:00 
ALLEGHENY REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CENTER 
CALL 661-8811
«iinniinninnni
wmE
BN
C-MU
Why Would A C-MU Woman Take ROTC?
Rose Marie Sullen, H&SS '73', States Her Feelings 
In The Following Letter To The Alumni News
i
:
Greetings!
I receive the Alumni News here at Fort Knox and ap­
preciate it immensely. I have completed two years active 
duty and was promoted to first lieutenant 17 August 1975.1 
am now serving as the Budget Officer of the 194th Ar­
mored Brigade —managing purchasing, fuel expenditures 
etc. on a budget of ove $5 milion.
Not bad for a degree in psych and french! The Army is a 
great life for a woman —truly equal opportunity.
Pf you could squeeze me into the "news" some time, 
please say I'd welcome friends any where near Louisville 
or Ft. Knox.
Sincerely,
Rose Marie Sullen 
HHC. 194th Bde.
' Ft. Knox, Ky 40121 
H&SS '73
For Information On Women In ROTC And/Or The Opportunity 
To Talk With Lt. Sullen Call Major John Carey Ext. 281/282

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16-THE TARTAN-November 25, 1975TRAPEZEMadness a' la Mode
by Joan O’Connor
The eleventh hour motif prevails among Humanities 
students. In view of the grim developments of 1975, it 
seems Humanities students owe it to themselves to plan 
an especially riotous vacation this Holiday season. The 
feast of Oblivion, celebrated December 31, is not far off. 
This year, why not do the ultimate?
Go to Time? Square for New Year’s Eve.
Admittedly, Times Square is a challenge, just as any 
mob scene is a challenge. It is wise to wear little jewlry 
and carry nd money, (on our first venture, we came 
equipped with toothbrushes, Crest, speed and Southern 
Comfort.) It is also advisable to arrive by eleven, and 
decide beforehand on a point of reconnaissance, in case 
some members of your party are carried off by a surge 
of the crowd.
Times Square is sheer mania. There are men with 
flashing neon-shirts and old broads in gold lame rhumba- 
ing on the sidewalk. There are conga lines, replete with 
lampshades, a constant barrage of cherrybombs and 
every variety of derelict. Vendors sell horns and noise- 
makers at a dollar a piece, the air reverberates with 
sound of elephants in heat.
Everyone is blitzed, thus everyone is extremely 
emotional. Endless brown-bagged toasts are followed by 
kisses and embraces--your friends will kiss you, the 
Pakistani who has been leering at you for an hour will 
kiss you, the pre-med student who considers himself 
quite a young stallion will kiss you. Even the Pretzel 
man will kiss you.
The madness of Times- Square is irresistible. It is a 
scene of unrestrained excess. Inhibitions dissolve, the 
bizarre is applauded. Amid choruses of Auld Lang Syne, 
you will find yourself doing tap dance routines you 
never knew. The level of energy is astounding, for Times 
Square is a ritual of frenzy. Dancing, spinning, shouting 
your muscles will tense as the clock above Nathan’s ticks 
off the last minutes. Desperately, you will try to
maneuver into the range of the panning television 
cameras.
Suddenly the Ball dr.ops. It is midnight. The insanity 
peaks.
At this point it is crucial to remember the route back 
to Grand Central Station. The last train out of the city 
departs at 1:30 a.m. It is useless to ask information of 
the police who remain, sullen, disgruntled, behind their 
barricades. On New Year’s Eve, they all seem to be from 
out of town.
If you happen to be playing the vagrant that night, 
the lobby of the Plaza Hotel is an excellent place to' 
loiter and keep warm.
At 3:00 in the morning, New Year’s Day, 1974, our 
motley crew straggled into the Plaza. There beneath 
Fitzgerald’s wedding cake ceilings, we met two affluent 
Virginians, Sue and Bentley (a mother and daughter act) 
and one affluent Texan pilot by the name of Nelson 
Groome. Bentley, Sue and Nelson were everything one 
wishes Southern gentry to be. They smacked of 
thoroughbreds, mint juleps and Alfa-Romeo’s. Inviting 
us up to their suite, which ran half a corridor, they 
plied us with chocolate and fruit. Nelson insisted he 
should take us all out to breakfast.
Still later we were befriended by two New Yorkers 
who did Marx Brothers routines with a wheel chair they 
had found in a utility closet. They also invited us up to 
tljeir suite where an all-night New Year’s Eve party was 
still in progress. Visciously proud of their city, the 
guests at the party constantly asserted, “we are New 
Yorkers. We can do anything.” At dawn we decided to 
leave. The New Yorkers, however, continued their 
revelry.
If the Plaza ambience is too Deluxe for your tastes, 
why not try the Hotel National? Rooms go for $8.00, 
and talking down the price is always a possibility. A stay 
at the National guarantees you a few sleazy escapades. 
For instance:
Upon returning to his quarters at the Hotel National 
one night, a certain Danny Mangin tripped over some­
thing suspiciously solid in the dark corridor. Lying at 
his feet was a one-eyed, one-armed midget. Danny 
screamed and ran into his room. The one-eyed, one- 
armed midget is still believed to be at large.
Cognizent of the Bicentennial, Times Square should 
be a virtual asylum this year. The Winston smoker bill­
board may be blowing red, white and blue smoke rings. 
Patriots from Camp Hill, Pa. may even be inspired to 
put in an appearance.
After the onslaught of finals, a little madness (reefer 
or otherwise) always proves therapeutic. Times Square 
on New Year’s Eve is for the zany, the reckless and 
those who have a passionate desire to forget. Times 
Square mania is a plane of heightened sensation. It caters 
to those who think in terms of confetti, Boston cream 
pies and the assasination of Guy Lombardo.
This year, go to Times Square for New Year’s Eve.
You will become part of a performance you will 
never forget.
THE GREAT BOOKSTORE 
CALCULATOR GIVE AWAY
TOP PRIZE
$795 VALUE 
HP 65 —
SECOND PRIZE
CHOICE .OF HP 21, 22, 25
THIRD PRIZE
CHOICE OF TWO REMAINING CALCULATORS
FOURTH PRIZE
REMAINING CALCULATOR
Details For Entry in THE BOOKSTORE
thiswek.1BP
\5 TW£ KÊV rV .sVtt£$3fVL. 
KE^i-l/Tf ON--

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—November 25, 1975—Page 1
"STAR TREKTACULAR" ANYONE?
By Laune lrask
From December 12th to the 14th, the 
Pittsburgh Hilton at Gateway Center will 
host the first annual “Pittsburgh Star Trek- 
tacular.” This Star Trek convention, the 
brain child of Nansi Hly, Sue Cornwell, 
and Lyndia Morgan, was only conceived of 
six weeks ago. However, they were able 
to get William Shatner, Leonard Nimoy (in 
town to do Twelfth Night with the Pitts­
burgh Public Theater), DeForest Kelly, 
George Takei, and Jimmy Doohan to 
come into town for the weekend. The con­
vention will start Friday morning at eleven, 
and will end by about four on Sunday af­
ternoon.
Like other Trek conventions this one 
boasts panel discussions with the stars, 
a huckster room, an art show, and a trivia 
contest. On Sunday morning, a special 
brunch with the cast will be held, after 
which Leonard Nimoy will give a speech. 
The costume party will include a contest 
under the following categories: Best Star 
Trek Character, Best Scie nee Fiction 
Character, and Best Mini-Trek costume for 
fans under twelve only. However, unlike 
other ST conventions, no skits will be per­
mitted during the costume call. A “Babel 
Conference,” for those in costume, will 
precede the rest of the party that night. 
There will also be a big film program going 
on th'oughout the “Pittsburgh Star Trek- 
tacular.” Among the films to be shown will
be some Star Trek episodes, a Star Trek 
blooper reel, episodes from other science 
fiction-oriented TV shows, and various 
science fiction movies.
Admission to the convention will only 
be seven dollars for the entire weekend for 
those who register before November 29th.
seven dollar check made out to “Pitts­
burgh Star Trektacular”, in care of Ms. 
Nansi Hly, 346 South McKinley Avenue,
lars. Reservations for that can also be made 
through Ms. Hly. Information on staying at 
the Pittsburgh Hilton for the weekend is
Registrations sold after November 29 will Pittsburgh, PA 15202. The brunch, which
be fifteen dollars. To register earlv. send a is limited to four hundred , costs six dol-
available by calling the main desk at 391 - 
4600.
The trumpets shall sound along with the
entire Pittsburgh Symphony Chamber 
Orchestra when George Frederick Handel’s 
oratorio Messiah plays Heinz Hall, Sunday, 
Monday and Tuesday, Dec. 14, 15, and 16, 
each concert starting at 8 p.m.
The solo voices and choir for the up­
coming Pittsburgh presentation of Messiah 
are soprano Kathryn Bouleyn, mezzo- 
soprano Sheila Nadler, tenor Jerry Jennings 
and bass Adib Fazah along with the 
Mendelssohn Choir of Pittsburgh and the 
Chamber Orchestra, Donald Johanos con­
ducting.
Tickets at $5.50, 4.50 and 3.50 are 
available at the Heinz Hall Office and by 
mail order. Discounts to groups of 20 or 
more are also available by phoning Mrs.
Kathy Meyer at (412) 281-8185.
Oliver Plaza Dinner Theater, formerly
La Bastille Dinner Theater, is now present­
ing the Betty Caplan production of How 
To Succeed in Business Without Really 
Trying. The show will run every Friday 
and Saturday at 8:30 pm. There will be 
a special performance on Wednesday, 
December 10 and also New Year’s Eve.
The Pitt YMCA presents a crafts fair in
the lower lounge of the Pitt Student 
Union on Friday, December 5 th and 
Saturday, December 6th, from 12 noon 
to 8 pm both days. There is no admission 
charge, the public is invited to browse 
and/or purchase handmade gifts.
"How to Succeed in Business" is a lively musical 
comedy about J. Pierpont Finch, an ambitious 
young window washer and his rise to success, 
without really trying, (but with a little help from 
a know-it-all book and a pretty secretary who is 
in love with him.) With Finch on the move, big 
business will never be the same.
UNIVERSITY ORATORY OF 
THE HOLY SPIRIT PARISH
CMU CAMPUS
SATUPOAY MASS.................................................7:00 P.M. - Tech House
SUNDAY MASS............................10:30 A.M. — Science Hall (Rm 7500)
DAILY MASS (Mon.-Fri.)......................................5:00 P.M. — Tech House
Fathers John Walsh or Bob English 
Tech House 5125 Margaret Morrison 621-2911
The TARTAN Wishes You A Happy Thanksgiving

---------------------------------------------------

ërry Jett: RIDIN' HIGH
If there’s one great singer that rock-and- 
roll hasn’t found room for in its spotlight, 
it has to be Jerry Jeff Walker. 01’ Jerry Jeff 
has been doing it for a long, long time and 
he’s never really received the recognition 
that he deserves.
Jerry Jeff first caught the eye of his 
peers with a song he penned, called “Mr. 
Bojangles”. “Mr. Bojangles” has been 
performed by everyone and their brother, 
but still Jerry Jeff isn’t exactly a household 
name. Well, the lack of success didn’t 
thwart Jerry Jeff. He grabbed David 
Bromberg and Michael Murphy and he con­
tinued to pick some of the best damn 
country music that rock ever heard.
Times changed and ditto Jerry Jeff 
Walker. He made Austin Texas his home 
and expanded his musical horizons. The 
Lost Gonzo Band was formed and soon 
Texas was rocking to the mud-slinging 
sound of Jerry Jeff. A couple big albums
slipped by the ears of critics and fans alike, 
but Jerry Jeff was laying some fine music 
to wax, nonetheless. Walker’s Collectables 
and Live From Austin Texas are practically 
classics now, yet Jerry Jeff is still un­
known.
1 hope all that changes real soon cause 
Jerry Jeffs newest release is a fine collec­
tion of country kickers. The album is 
Riding High and it could be the best 
Gonzo/Walker effort to date. Riding High 
rocks and it mellows but it always seems to 
hit home. Jerry Jeff added some of 
Nashville’s finest studio musicians to the 
powerhouse Gonzo Band and the combina­
tion is superb. All of the songs are just 
Texas-based tunes with an occasional sur­
prise from Jerry Jeff. For every cut that 
will dance you off your Texas Toes, there’s 
a cut guaranteed to bring a little sentiment 
into your life. The picking is get-down and 
Jerry Jeffs slow drawl adds just the right
GO HOME
Flying Home for 
Thanksgiving
Let A PhiO start you on 
your way with their shut­
tle bus, to the Greater Pit­
tsburgh International Air­
port. The bus will run 
Nov. 26, leaving More- 
wood at 10:45, 1:15 and 
3:45, and Donner Hall 15 
min. later. Tickets will be
sold for 1.75 at these 
locations.
More wood Main Desk Skibo Travel Center Skibo Info. Desk 
Hammerschlag B-104
amount* of emphasis to each vocal phase.
Riding High includes a Willie Nelson 
(fellow Austin picker) song called “Pick
#S*t
Hats off to Jerry Jeff
Up the Tempo”. It’s one of those slow- 
building ballads that really strains a man’s 
vocal chords. Jerry Jeff adds that if Willie 
Nelson likes gravy, he’s all right in Jerry 
Jeffs book. A Jessie Winchester tune is 
also lurking in the piiddle of Riding High 
and it’s one of the finest tear-jerkers that 
I’ve ever laid ears on. The song is “Missis­
sippi “Your’re On My Mind.” Jerry 
Jeff makes a comment in the liner notes 
that Jesse Winchester didn’t feel like stick­
ing around to help blow up Asia, so he
won’t be seeing the South for a long while. 
I can see now why this song means so 
much to the author and to ol’ Jerry Jeff.
The album closes with “Pissing In The 
Wind” and Jerry Jeffs humor is non-stop. 
“Pissing In The Wind” is one of those hey- 
rm-a-losin-but-that’s-alright-by-me songs. 
Put the fiddles and the vocals together and 
the answer is “Pissing In The Wind”.
So don’t be fooled by the easy going- 
home nature of Riding High\ it’s an album 
compiled with the sweetest picking, the 
smoothest back-up vocals since the Beach 
Boys, and the greatest gut feeling since 
Nashville Skyline or Born to Run.
Before I forget, I want to add a good 
word or two concerning the dynamite 
show that PMM put on in Skibo Ballroom, 
November 14th. Christopher’s Rye and 
King Solomon provided the best live musi­
cal entertainment that I’ve heard since the 
Rhythm Kings. Joe Kelly constructed a su­
per show for a minimal cost and it’s time 
that someone gave PMM the credit that 
they deserve Christopher’s Rye played 
a solid set of folk/rock and the guitar 
player cooked. Solomon commanded the 
stage and they wouldn’t let go. Their 
musical arrangements were incredibly well 
put together and their mixed bag of soul 
and jazz just danced me off my feet. King 
Solomon’s sax player had enough funk in 
him to bust this city in half. So don’t scoff 
at the mention of live entertainment in 
Pittsburgh. It’s starting to happen, if it 
hasn’t already.
Riding High with Quiff, also 
my regards to Magic Marge 
and
apologies to Reid
A NEW BEGINNING
Look no further around 
you for answers. Look 
¦ within yourself; with- 
^ in your mind. YOU 
^ posess the power&
to control 
your life1
CREATIVE AWARENESS 
is now accepting members 
throughout the U.S. to a 
further explore the a 
'powers of the mind’
Introductory
Directory
Members
• Three(3) Workshop Seminars 
yearly with Special Membership rates
MONTHLY TAPES OFFERED ON SPECIAL MEMBERSHIP ON SUCH TOPICS 
WHICH INCLUDE:
Creative and Positive Thinking In Depth Concentration 
Astro Projection The 7 Planes New Spaces 
Eastern and Western Philosophy
INTRODUCTORY OFFER/MEMBERSHIP NOW ONLY $10
I
As a member I understand you will mail me 
each month an information card on next 
months tape. If I do not want that selection, 
I mark the appropriate box and mail the card 
back. I will only receive the selections that 
interest me and I have prepaid for. I under­
stand the card must be mailed back within 
10 days.
CHECK HERE IF YOU DO NOT WANT TO
NAME
ADDRESS
CITYSTATE
ZIPPHONE
OCCUPATION
COLLEGE
I
Mail toCREATIVE AWARENESS INCI
I BE LISTED IN THE DIRECTORY ? 5030 Paradis« Rd Su.te A 103
— — — — — — — — — — — Las Vegas. Nevada 89119 — — I

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-November 25, 1975-Page 19sports
MALONEY’S HEADACHE
There is no denying that Coach Dave 
Maloney has a difficult task ahead of him, 
to make basketball at CMU respectable. 
Respectability at this point would be a .500 
season. However, first year basketball 
»coaches have not had a history of great suc­
cess at this school. Moe Fassinger in his 
first year as coach in the 1966-67 season 
finished with a 12-11 record. That was the 
last positive record the Tartans have post­
ed. It has now been eight straight losing
New Courses 
in Phys. Ed.
Personal Conditioning and Stress and 
Tension Control are two new courses 
that have been added to the Physical 
Education course list this semester.
Personal Conditioning (co-ed) as the 
title denotes, will be a conditioning course 
prescribed by the individual with assistance 
from the instructor to insure that the de­
sired results are achieved or at least pur­
sued correctly.
Stress and Tension Control (co-ed) is a 
course designed to deal with the two major 
obstacles that affect the degree to which 
a person can enjoy life. Both stress; which 
is the result of pressures that affect the 
mind, and tension; the accompanying 
force that builds up physically, are a part 
of life that cannot be eliminated, only 
dealt with. The goal of this course will 
be to identify both stress and tension and 
to try to control these through relaxation.
The courses are open to the staff, 
faculty, and students at CMU. Registra­
tion is in room 103 of the gym.
seasons.
Coach Maloney, however, has brought 
with him renewed optimism and enthusi­
asm. He has been trying to instill a win­
ning attitude into a team that went 4-16 
last season. Something there has been very 
little of in past seasons. He has also organ­
ized a pep band to drum up fan support 
at the home games. Hopefully all of these 
will generate a winning season.
Camegie-Mellon opens the 1975-76 
basketball season at home this Monday 
night at 8:00 against St. Vincent College, 
a non-conference opponent. The first four 
games on the Tartan schedule are non­
conference. The Presidents Athletic Con­
ference season will begin on January 7 
when the Tartans travel to Cleveland to 
play Case Western Reserve.
St. Vincent, coming off of a mediocre 
season last year, had little trouble with 
the Tartans in their last meeting. St. Vin­
cent won handily 83-46. However, the 
Tartans will be playing against a much 
more inexperienced team than the team 
they lost by 37 points to. St. Vincent has 
lost sue seniors to graduation, four of 
which were starters against the Tartans last 
season.
CMU, on the other hand, returns with 
most of last year’s team. With the addi­
tion. of transfer students DiCicco and 
DeaBrunzzo, the Tartans should field a 
much more experienced team than St. 
Vincent. Hamerly led the Tartans with 
18 points against St. Vincent last season.
CMU participated in two pre-season 
scrimmages last week against Point Park 
and Grove City. Although both teams are 
in conferences of higher caliber than the 
PAC, CMU played them even most of the 
time, looking especially good in rebound­
ing.
Mark Janotti (8) scores against Duquesne.Ptioto by Elliot Popowitz
DUKES SUFFER 5-3 LOSS
CMU'S NEW FRISBEE CLUB
The coach of CMU’s Ultimate Frisbee 
Team was not fired last week. This came 
as no surprise to anyone. Andy Cummis, 
the organizer and coach of the new sport 
announced the beginning of the Ultimate 
Frissbee season at CMU.
Presently there are thirteen members 
practicing on Wednesday and Sunday 
at 7:00 p.m. on the IM field and also at 
10:00 a.m. Saturday in the gym. The 
captain is Dave Stewart and the co-cap­
tain Gene Moore. Ultimate Frisbee was 
started in 1967 by a group of students at 
Columbia H.S. in Maplewoods, N.J. It is 
[ a fast moving, non-contact sport, played on 
a 60 by 40 yard field. A goal is scored by 
completing a pass over the goal line. There 
is a goal line at each end of the field. The 
length of the goal area is usually unlimited, 
but some teams play with a 20 yard goal 
area. Anything but a completed pass is a 
turnover. All calls are made by the players 
involved because there are no referrees. 
The only way to move the frisbee is by 
passing it to a teammate. The defensive 
team may attempt to block or intercept 
the pass.
Presently there are at least forty college 
frisbee teams around the country. CMU’s 
team will be playing the following schools 
second semester: Rochester Institute of 
Technology, S.U.N.Y at Buffalo, Universi­
ty of Cinncinati, Penn State, Lehigh, and 
others.
Other games played with frisbees are: 
Guts, Folf (frisbee golf), and freestyle 
competition. Freestyle is the most innova­
tive aspect of frisbee There is any number 
of stunts that can be executed. Some of 
the easier and widely used catches are 
behind the back, between the legs, follow- 
catches and behind the head. The basic 
throws used in most types of frisbee are
backhand, underhand, wrist-flip, side-arm, 
and thumb-flips.
Anyone interested in playing Ultimate 
Frisbee, freestyling, or just learning now to 
throw a frisbee is invited to come to the 
practices.
by Mary K. Groupe
Fast and furious second period play 
brought a 5-3 victory over Duquesne to 
the CMU Hockey Club on Sunday, Novem­
ber 16.
During the first period, both clubs ex­
hibited a sloppy, sluggish playing style 
which, not surprisingly, resulted in no 
scoring. The highlights of the first 15 min­
utes were supplied by the referee, in the 
confusion over a delaved offsides cal!, which 
Duquesne thought was a delayed penalty call.
In the opening minutes of the second 
period, the tempo picked up quickly. 
Jack Arturo set up Rick Smith, on a per­
fectly coordinated play in front of the net, 
for the first Tartan goal at 2:28. Next, 
Dave Cornelius caught a pass from Jim 
Morse , slipped around behind the net, 
and tucked the puck into the goal. The 
Duquesne goalie grabbed too late and 
pulled it back across the goal line, but the 
referee ruled it a goal for CMU. Nine sec­
onds later, Timmy Boylan scored for Du­
quesne, narrowing the margin to 2-1.
Mike Callaway contributed the third 
Tartan goal, tipping in a shot from center 
Jack Arturo. At 14:08, Matt Goldsmith
brought it to four. From back near the 
right point, he sent a beautiful rising shot 
past the Dukes’ goalie and into the lop of 
the net.
CMU totaled 20 shots on goal in the sec­
ond period, and Duquesne managed only 
5, which gives a fair approximation of how 
the period wentv The Tartans put together 
a coordinated offense and a strong defense, 
and seemed to have recovered from the 
first period slump. The only sour note was 
a 5-minute fighting penalty against James 
of the Dukes and Cornelius of CMU.
When the puck was dropped at the start 
of the third, it looked as though the Zam- 
boni had scooped up the Tartans’ skill 
and drive along with the shavings of ice. 
Two minutes after the expiration of the 
Cornelius - James penalties, another Du­
quesne player and Tom Grimm were called 
for fighting.
But with the first line center in the box 
for five minutes, the second and third lines 
stepped into the breach admirably. Mark 
Janotti, assisted by Jeff (Prepfiie) Jacobs 
and Skip Wallace, put in a rebound goal for 
CMU at 7:35. This game represents the 
first time this year when all three lines have
Continued on page twentyDrive abargain
PERDAY plus 10< per mile
We feature GM cars and 
offer S^H Green Stamps 
on U.S. rentals.
Now you can rent 3 new '76 air-conditioned Cutlass 
Supreme or similar car from National for only $5.95 
per day, 10<per mile. Rate available from Wednesday 
noon, November 26, to Monday noon, December 1. 
You pay only for gas you use.
For reservations, call us today:
4621 Forbes Ave. (Oakland)
550 Grant Street (Pittsburgh)
Greater Pittsburgh Airport
682 1444
261 5500
262 2312
National Car Rental
‘Net rates subject to change without notice.
Car must be returned to any location listed above

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20-THE TARTAN-November 25, 1975
Photo by Tom Joseph 
A Pika buggy being signaled to start the turn during last week's freeroll.
by L.S.D. C.Everyone present was quite upset with 
the outcome of the morning’s events. A
The last scheduled freeroll practice of 
this year’s fall buggy season was canceled 
Sunday morning due to the inconsideration 
of the Pittsburgh Police. The weather was 
traditional buggy weather - clear skies and 
very cold temperatures. Six organizations 
complete with buggies, drivers, pushers, 
flagpeople, and follow cars showed up 
bright and early and very anxious to roll, 
but apparently Sergeant Hickey and his 
fellow police officers decided that the 27 
degree temperature was just too cold to 
endure in their nice warm police cars. Sgt. 
Hickey could not be reached by phone. 
The operator said that his phone was either 
off the hook or out of order. After an hour 
of waiting and trying to reach him, Joan 
Bothwell, the Sweepstakes Chairperson, 
canceled the practice session at 7:20 a.m.
DUKES BEATEN
"Continued from page nineteen 
scored in one game.
For the remainder, Duquesne tried to 
even up the game. Boylan had an assist on 
Copeleno’s goal for the Dukes, then scored 
another on a slapshot that slipped right 
under Frank Sciulli’s stick. But 5-3 was as 
close as Duquesne could get.
There is only one game lep this semes­
ter for the Tartan club, and that one will 
take place against Pitt on December 7. 
The Pitt - CMU hockey rivalry is longstand­
ing and fierce, if the Tartans play against 
Pitt as they did in the second period 
against Duquesne, they should have a good 
chance of taking it. So come on over the 
Civic Arena on Sunday the 7th for what 
promises to be this semester’s most excit­
ing game.
~ JOT THIS DOWN ~
SOCCER - Playoffs start Tuesday Novem­
ber 25.
VOLLEYBALL — Final Results:
Major League — Coaches All-Stars 
defeated GSIA and Feva defeated 
SAE-A in the semi-finals. Coaches All- 
Stars defeated Feva in the finals 15-1, 
15-5.
Intermediate League — Phi Kappa Theta 
defeated the MacGilldoes in a very close 
match. The scores were 15-11, 14-16, 
and 15-3.
Minor League - Hamrrierschlag defeated 
E Tower Morewood 15-12, 15-2.
BASKETBALL - Entries for IM Basketball 
are due Tuesday January 13, 1976. 
There will be a minimum of six and a 
maximum of thirteen players on a team. 
Three leagues will be formed. Applica­
tions can be picked up in the IM office.
BRIDGE AND HANDBALL - These IM 
sports entries are due Tuesday January 
13, 1976. Pick up applications in IM 
Office.
IM BOARD - meeting Tuesday, November 
25 at 4:30 in IM office.
considérable amount of time and trouble is 
involved in preparing for a freeroll practice, 
not to mention the aggravation of getting 
50 to 75 people out of bed at 6 a.m. only 
to have the practice canceled because the 
police didn’t arrive. Sgt. Hickey and his 
men are paid quite well to supervise traffic 
control at freeroll practices and one would 
think that he would have some consider­
ation for his “customers.” However, Sgt. 
Hickey has Sweepstakes in the same kind 
of position that the Senate Finance Com­
mittee does - he has all of the power. Just 
as the Finance Committee can impose its 
will on Sweepstakes using its control of the 
purse strings, Sgt. Hickey can do as he likes 
because Sweepstakes can’t have any 
practices without his cooperation. Sweep­
stakes must be nice to him because they 
need him.
In the past, Sgt. Hickey has been a good 
friend to Sweepstakes and has been very 
helpful in many ways. This fact makes his 
complete inconsideration Sunday morning 
all the more appalling. There is no excuse 
for his actions or the inconvenience he 
caused Sunday morning.
pin, TES
by Judy Parker
CMU’s Women’s Varsity Volleyball 
Team tried unsuccessfully to triumph over 
Pitt and IUP this week. Against both teams 
CMU was able to make good spikes which 
won the service privilege for them several 
times. Having won the service, CMU was 
only able to score a few points because 
of their lack of offensive ability. Often the 
returned serve would be missed by CMU. 
CMU’s reactions were too slow to keep up 
to the fast paced game that both Pitt and 
IUP played. Consequently CMU lost to 
both teams, the final score with Pitt 15-4, 
15-4, and IUP 15-3, 15-7.
Saturday the team traveled to California 
State College to compete in CSC’s Inter­
collegiate Volleyball Tournament. There 
were fifteen other teams present, among 
them Duquesne, IUP, Geneva, Thiel, and 
Clarion. In the first half of the tournament, 
the teams were split into two leagues, 
eight teams in each one.
The teams play only one game against 
each opponent, eight minutes running 
time. Whichever team scores the most 
points by the end of the time period is 
declared the winner. Ties are not resolved. 
To determine the ranking of the teams a 
win is worth two points, a tie one, and a 
loss nothing.
After the eight have all played each 
other, the top three teams in each league 
enter the major division playoffs. The 
fourth, fifth, and sixth place teams in each 
league ‘are put into the minor division 
playoffs. In the first half of the tourna­
ment CMU totaled three wins, two ties, 
and two losses. The two ties were just 
enough to knock CMU out of the major 
division playoffs, but CMU was ranked 
fourth and had hopes for winning the mi­
nor division playoffs.
CMU began the playoffs with good 
teamwork and racked up three wins in 
a row against CSC, Penn State (Fayette), 
and Bethany. In the fourth game of the
CLEAN UP ,
round CMU took an early lead against * 
Chatham. Chatham began to catch up and 
in the last few seconds of the game there 
was a questionable call which the referee 
considered changing . The advantage was 
given to Chatham instead of CMU. The 
point should have been replayed but 
wasn’t. Chatham as a result just barely had 
time to score one point to tie the game?* 
The questionable call turned out to'' 
be the most crucial point of the playoffs 
for CMU, because Westminster beat CMU 
badly in the last game. The final standings 
left CMU, three wins, one tie, and one 
toss, in second place behind Westminister, 
who had four wins, one loss.
CMU, however, did tie Duquesne, 
and beat Geneva, two teams which they) 
lost to in their regular season. )
Playing for CMU were, Elly 
Zimmerman, Davina Davies, Audrey 
Goldstein, Karen Eldridge, and Crystal 
Hoffman.DUQUESNE 
SHOT DOWNi
by Mark Smith
Karen Azinger’s new high score of 
258 in the final relay was the boost CMU’s 
Rifle Team needed to surpass Duquesne.
The final score was CMU 1285, Duquesne 
1274. However, the outcome was uncertain 
until the last relay with Mark Smith’s 1 
271 and Azinger’s 258.
The othfer scores for CMU were Steve 
Strom - 253, Ed Klemencic - 252, and 
Bill Williams — 251.
After 7 matches the rifle team’s record 
stands at 4—3. The averages of the six 
shooters who have contributed most 
consistently this far are, Mark Smith -272, 
Steve Strom - 260, Bill Williams - 247, i 
Karen Azinger - 247, Russel Beebe - 246, i 
and Ed Klimencic — 243.
Get your heads together.
From one beer lover to another.
