' -------------¦ I
16
Vol. 36. Mo. 13OARNEQIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1642
Engineering Electives Will Be Offered Women
MANPOWER COMMISSION TO 
CONTROL TECH’S STUDENTS
Women To Enroll 
In 83 New Courses
The rapid induction of men into 
the armed forces has caused an 
urgent need for women with tech­
nical training, since many positions 
formerly held by men must now be 
ñlled by women if a vast war pro­
duction program is to reach and 
maintain its peak.
Carnegie Tech desires to offer the 
maximum opportunity, for women 
in scientific and technical fields.
Consequently, on January 6, 
courses especially designed to en­
able women students to prepare 
themselves for scientific war posi­
tions will be offered in the Mar­
garet Morrison Carnegie College 
and the College of Engineering.
Prof. H. M. McCully, head of the 
department of drawing and descrip­
tive geometry, headed a committee 
which investigated the possibilities 
of utilizing courses given by the 
College of Engineering for the Mar­
garet Morrison students. Data was 
procured on both day and evening 
courses.
It was determined that 83 courses 
could be made available for Mar­
garet Morrison students — 52 day 
and 31 evening. An indication of 
the scope of the proposed program 
may be had from a breakdown of 
the various courses available, as fol­
lows: physics, 9; mechanical engi-
Continued on Page J
0. D. K. Will Initiate 
Ten Juniors Tonight
Carnegie’s Circle of Omicron Del­
ta Kappa, national senior class hon­
orary, will initiate ten men tonight 
at 5:00 P. M. in the Carnegie Union. 
The candidates, chosen from the up­
per 35 per cent of the junior class 
on a basis of leadership, service, and 
participation in extra-curricular ac­
tivities, are John Lindberg, Donald 
French, Robert Galbraith, DcWitt 
Lyon, Fred Rousseau, Robert Fries, 
Charles Jones, Rodger Beal, James 
Boyce, and Ed Tennyson. In ad­
dition, Mr. Max Hannum was select­
ed to succeed Al Irwin as one of the 
tour faculty members in O. D. K.
Following the initiation, the 
jnembers will meet with the Pitt 
Circle for a joint observance of O. 
D. K. Founder's Day.
Next Thursday Omicron Delta 
K®ppa, in conjunction with Mor­
tar Board, will sponsor a Christmas 
P*Uy for Pittsburgh orphans. The 
P^ty, to be held in Thistle Hall, 
W1U close the season for the grad* 
uating members of the Circle.
Jurisdiction Over Undergraduates 
Transferred By Presidential Order
The Administration of the Carnegie Institute of Technology is pleased 
that the centralization of authority for the control over all man- and woman- 
power—an authority ihat embraces and coordinates those activities until now 
independently pursued by numerous armed forces, war industries, civil branches 
of Government, Selective Service, and the War Manpower Commission—h^s 
been announced by President Franklin D. Roosevelt’s Executive Order, pro­
viding for "the moflt effective mobilization a-Tifl utilization of the nation man­
power,” transferring the Selective Service System to the War Manpower 
Commission.
Therefore, the Administration of the Carnegie Institute of Technology 
in order to clarify the confusion that exists in the minds of students and to 
allay rumors, makes the following announcement:
1. The winning of the war remains the prime objective of this Nation, 
and the resources and facilities of the Carnegie Institute of Technology will 
continue to be used to that end.
2. The Carnegie Institute of Technology plans to continue regular college 
instruction in accordance with the announced schedule for the second semester 
of the year 1942-43.
3. Confusion among students that has been caused by unfounded rumors 
and the lack of authoritative information has been partly dispelled by certain 
definite directives in the Executive Order, as follows:
a. No further enlistments in the armed forces and their reserves are to be 
permitted.
b. Authority over the educational programs of the armed forces and their 
reserve components in non-Federal institutions (and this includes the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology) has been transferred to the Chairman of the War 
Manpower Commission. In this connection Paragraph 6 of the Executive Order 
is quoted for your information:
"The Secretary of War and the Secretary of the Navy «hall take 
such steps as may be necessary to assure that all training programs for 
the armed forces (including their Reserve components) and the Wo* 
men’s Army Auxiliary Corps, which are carried on in non-Federal 
educational institutions, conform with such policies or regulations as 
the chairman (of the War Manpower Commission), after consultation 
with the Secretary of War and the Secretary of the Navy, prescribes 
as necessary to insure the efficient utilisation of the nation’s educa­
tional facilities and personnel for the effective prosecution of the war."
c. The Chairman of the War Manpower Commission shall prescribe the 
regulations to govern the status of those students enlisted in the various Re­
serve Corps. This announcement should be made shortly.
d. The Chairman of the War Manpower Commission has authority to pro­
vide for the needs of industry as well as for the needs of the armed forces.
4. Concerning deferment under Seleotive Service, Paragraph 12 of the 
Executive Order is quoted for your information:
‘‘All prior executive Orders, insofar aa they are in conflict here­
with, are amended accordingly. All prior regulations, rulings and 
other directives relating to the Seleotive Service System shall remain 
in effect, except insofar as they are in confliot with this order or are 
hereafter amended by regulations, rulings or other direotives issued by 
or under the direction of the chairman."
5. No change has been made in the announcement concerning fees by 
President Robert E. Doherty as of August 31, 1940, which provides that 
TUITION AND OTHER FEES WILL BE REFUNDED ON A PRO-RATA 
BASIS FOR THE UNEXPIRED PORTION OF THE SEMESTER FOR 
THOBE STUDENTS WHO ARE CALLED BY SELEOTIVE SERVICE OB 
TO ACTIVE SERVICE .FROM THE ENLISTED RESERVES.
6. If requested to do so, this institution will offer whatever program may 
be required by the United States Government for those students who may be 
assigned on the campus as a part of the armed services,
7. It is the hope of the Administration that students of the Carnegie 
Institute of Tedhnology will enroll for the second semester on January 6,1349, 
in order that they may continue to prepare themselves to make the contri­
bution to the war effort that the War Manpower Commission will determine 
for them.
Student Council Will 
Present New Rules 
At Today’s Meeting
The following letter which should 
be of interest to dll students on cam- 
pus v)as received from the président 
of Student Council. The revised 
constitution is printed on page 6 
of this weeKs TARTAN.
To the Student Body:
À student General Assembly is 
hereby declared for Tuesday, after« 
noon, December 8, at 4:30 p. m, in 
the Fine Arts Theatre. The purpose 
of this meeting is to take official ac­
tion on the Student Council Con­
stitution as revised by the Council 
on November 24 and approved by 
the Executive Board on November * 
30,1942.
Your Student Council has worked- 
many weeks on various 166Vo6 at all 
times in collaboration with the 
Dormitory Councils and Interfrater­
nity Councils—in an effort to devisé 
the most effective, truly student* 
operated government of any college 
anywhere. It is our opinion that 
this has been accomplished.
There is at present a noticeable 
lull in interest in student activities, 
supposedly because of uncertainties 
which the immediate future offers. 
It is absolutely inexcusable for stu­
dents to appear this irresponsible 
in a matter as permanent and as 
important to normal school life as ; ; 
their student government. Will we ; 
be short sighted—and fail to talrg 
cognizance of the normal student 
life which will follow this war?
The revised Constitution is not 
a temporary arrangement for an ex ­
pedited program. It is permanent 
A two-thirds favorable vote of all 
students present at the General As­
sembly is required before the re­
vised Constitution goes into effect. - 
After many weeks of campus-wide 
discussion of issues such as jurisdic­
tion and methods of representation, 
it behooves every student to attend 
this Assembly and voice his opinion.
Yours sincerely,
' JOHN C. VAN ARSDELL, 
President, Student Council.
Christmas Chapel
Carnegie Tech's annual Christ- 
mas Chapel, to be held today at 
11:30 in the foyer'of the Fine Arts 
Building, will be featured by group 
singing of Christmas carols and the 
reading of the Scriptures. The halls 
will ring with such traditional mel­
odies as “Adeste Fideles,” “O Little 
Town of Bethlehem,” and 'Hie 
First NowelL”

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TABTAKTUESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1948
Cdiiobi' AnmcUoisi
An Eye To The Future
We believe that every student will read the statement on the first page 
with the same feeling of relief that we experienced. We felt relieved, not 
that everything is definitely known about the future, but that some definite 
plans are being made and adopted.
President Roosevelt’s appointment of Paul V. McNutt as director of 
the Manpower Commission was the first step in the formation of a definite,
. all-inclusive policy regarding the status of college students in the man­
power problem. This problem will eliminate the undesirable competition 
between the enlisting services of the Army, Navy, Marines, Air Corps, and 
the Selective Service and will go far to eliminate the unfair conflicting 
attitudes of the draft boards.
Because of the Tartan’s inability to publish the next few weeks, we will 
be unable to cover all of the rapid developments of this new program. We 
can, however, read between the lines, make a few deductions and a num­
ber of guesses, bearing in mind President Doherty's statements made on 
Carnegie Day, when he so ably called practically all these recent govern­
ment moves. The following statements, then, consist of these two ingre­
dients (deductions and guesses), mixed well.
School For Soldiers
Should the government develop a plan to provide' college training 
for men already in the armed forces, it is our unofficial opinion that the 
schools chosen will be asked to contract for the education, housing and 
boarding of a considerable number of service men. It would seem reason­
able to assume that the subjects to be taught would be mathematics, phys­
ics, chemistry and probably English, military engineering and other spec- 
italized military subjects, since there has been a widely-publicized need for 
personnel trained in those specific branches.
We do not read in the new Executive Order information relative to 
taking over any colleges by the government, but when the order mentions 
specifically the utilizing of the facilities of educational institutions for the 
prosecution of the war, we are certainly justified in assuming that the gov­
ernment will use such institutions as Carnegie Tech to do the thing they 
can best do,- namely, the educating of young people, whether under gov­
ernment contract or in ..regular degree courses.
It is probable, however, that peace-time courses, may be curtailed be­
cause of the reduced number of persons who will be able to take these 
courses, and also because of the taxing of the school’s facilities by the war 
courses. Colleges which are not chosen are going to experience trouble in 
finding enough 4-F”s to take their courses, and may find it necessary to 
close their doors for the duration of the war.
Democratic Education For A Change
. Up to the present time, the worst part of the entire manpower situation 
was the fact that those who could afford to, went to college and were de­
ferred, and those who couldn’t were drafted. We will stick our neck out 
again and predict that those in school at present who show aptitude for en­
gineering will definitely stay in school. If it comes to the point where they 
can no longer afford to attend school, the government will put them in uni­
form and send them back to school to finish.
Instead of the Secretary of War saying that all Enlisted Reservists 
will be called up on a certain date, the Manpower Commission will deter­
mine where each person will be most valuable—in school or in the army. 
This change, together with the order stopping enlistments will put a stop to 
the various reserve programs as a refuge from the draft boards.
Although, at present, the plans are to continue the education of only 
those who have completed half of their freshman year it may come to the 
point of inducting promising high school students and sending them to 
college—a move which we consider very laudable.
This incomplete picture of the rapidly developing situation is our only 
guess of what is the most likely to happen. We ask only that you refrain 
from spreading wild stories and from manufacturing rumors as some of the 
students were doing last week. The administration is exerting every ef­
fort to clarify the situation, and we rejoice with them at the adoption of this 
sane program.
We realize that it is asking a lot to request the students to think, in ad­
dition to the war and final exams, about yet another matter. This item 
is the student general assembly for the purpose of approving the new con­
stitution of Student Council.
Space limits our recommendation, but we urge you to read the entire 
constitution, reproduced on page 6. We hope that the year since Pearl Har­
bor has made the students appreciative enough of, democratic institutions 
such as referendum to exercise the privilege of voting for their own laws.
Opinions expressed In the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are notto be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie laslltol« «1 TtebB0l«{7> Bcbenlry Park, PlUabarfb, ?»,non MATFU)va Thh fiione schenlet
uphmiiiio ,e* »A"»*«' ««"•"« •* After Office Hours CallNational Advertising Service, Inc. Editoj-ln-Chief..............................PE. 7270
1*0 n. r. Busin** Manager..........................SC. 0055
cacw ? »o«iw • Lot *—«1— « um ______Advertising Manager.............. BB. 4759
EaUrtl u VlV.3Va* muur la a« Pliutsrfb Port OflJee aoder (he Act of Mareb 3, ISIS, PiblliM «Mklj* tirbf^Kfcul rcu^eBcept bolMiy* l4 eumlDilloa period«.
B
Utor-in-Chlef.......................................................Melvin H. Snyder, Jr.
Hsinett Manager............................................................................................Ted Nierenberg
MMMging Editor..,.................................,...............................................Jeanne King
(Ed. Note: Thus another new character 
gains his entre to the columns 0/ the 
TARTAN. We beg the readers kind in­
dulgence in a small -preface, "End Man” 
has permanently, assumed the authorship 
of the column uthich uias formerly called 
ONE OF THE BOYS. One may see then 
that when we call him a “character/' we 
may be taken literally.1 He isn’t ingenious, 
clever, or even very witty, for he’s just a 
Typical “Mr. Carnegie Tech.” He drinks, 
smokes, dates, and even cuts a class occa­
sionally. We do think, however, that the 
readers will enjoy his opinions and ob­
servations on some of our campus cele­
brities. We’ll let him take over from 
here.)
I was rather surprised, yesterday, 
to meet ex-Tartan Editor Len Chot- 
iner over in the Printing Depart­
ment Laboratory.
"Why, Chot, what in the world, 
are you doing over here?”, quoth I.
“I really don't know,” he said, 
struggling to remove one of his el­
bows from a desk, “maybe the fact 
that I'm a Printer has something to 
do with it! Anyhow, now that the 
Tartan is off my hands, I tpight be 
able to spare a little time for my 
work.”
And that really isn’t any joke! Be­
ing connected with the aforemen­
tioned paper myself, I know what 
it means to be editor. But let me 
tell you a little about Len Chotiner. 
From ancient Boss Hall folk-lore, I 
understand that if you play a Jim­
mie Lunceford recording, he’ll come 
running miles a way. 1 car. ’/ouch 
for the fact that when he’s really 
feeling blue you can hear the strains 
of Lunceford’s “Prayer For Mod- 
ers” coming from his room.
The word “prayer” makes me 
think of something about Chot that 
I think very few people know. As 
Shakespeare would say,; “Beneath 
his strong chin and day-old beard, 
there lies the soul of a romanticist.” 
I've heard him swear at freshmen 
in the Tartan office and then tear 
them into little pieces, but he’s al­
ways sorry afterwards—that is to 
say, he wipes off the dagger after 
each murderi
There something else about Chot, 
and I’m definitely not going to toss 
“the bouquet of the week” com 
either, that impressed me. He 
doesn’t have to jingle fifteen or 
twenty activities keys in your face 
to prove he’s a real senior. To make 
it short, he is a member of Pi Delta 
Epison, a Technical advisor, a mem­
ber of President Doherty’s Student 
Conference Committee, and, before
Anderson And JanBon 
Present Sonata Recitaln
Gosta Andreasson and Selmar 
Janson, faculty members of the De­
partment of Music, will present 
their first program in a scries of 
sonata recitals next Monday, De­
cember 14, at 8:15 P. M. in the Lit­
tle Theatre, College of Fine Arts.
The program for Monday eve­
ning’s performance is as follows: 
Beethoven .....................................
.............Sonata in F major, Op. 24
Brahms. .Sonata in A major, Op. 100 
Grieg... .Sonata in C minor, Op. 45
Students may secure tickets for 
the recital this Thursday from Miss 
Lawton in the Music Office, room 
193, Arts.
he took over the Tartan, was an all- 
star intramural basketball and foot­
ball player. The one activity which 
reigned second to the Tartan this 
year was his membership in Om­
icron Delta Kappa.
After almost four years at Carne­
gie, Chot has seen what makes the
school tick. He’s seen the frater­
nity side of campus life and he’s liv­
ed in the dorms. As editor of the 
Tartan he was usually on the inside 
about administration and campus 
decisions. As he says, “I’ve seen a 
lot and met a great many people. I 
think I’ve decidcd on a generaliza­
tion that pretty well fits ttie entire 
business: A glass of beer makes any 
situation bearable.”
Council Minutes
The.meeting was called to order at 7:20 p. m.
Absent: Messrs. Emberg, Frey, Lander- 
man, Lochhead, Dolan, and the Misses 
Bruce, Carlock, Molr.
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
Social Committee
Mr. Spilalerl moved for the approval ot a petition from the Newman Ctub to hold 
a dance In Thistle Hall on Friday, De­
cember 4, from 0 to 12 and for Januarye.
Motion carried.Elections
Mr. Beatty moved for the approval of 
the elections of November 25, 1942: 
Vice-President of Engineering Senate, Philip Rose.
Assistant Treasurers, Richard Lingron, 
Ralph Martin, Louis Lavie.
Senior Representatives, Marvin Gold- 
bcrger, William C. Heller, James Hovis, John L. Wolff.
Assistant Secretary, Dorothy Houlihan. 
President Senior Class in Engineering,
Robert Culbertson......................................
Motion carried.
Publications 
Mr. Munyer moved for the approval of 
the following publications elections: Tartan—Melvin Snyder, Editor; Jeanne 
King, Managing Editor.
Scotlie—Robert Reisaeher, Editor; Derek 
Martin, Business Manager.
Trl-Publlcatlons—James Braden, Edi­tor; John Woodslde, Business Manager.
Motion carried.
OLD BUSINESS 
Mr. Van Arsdell announced that the 
Executive Board approved the revision of 
the Student Council Constitution. He also 
announced that the by-laws will be con­sidered next week.
NEW BUSINESS 
Mr. Van Arsdell announced that there 
would be a Student Council dinner In the 
Union next Tuesday at 6:30. 
Adjournment.Respectfully submitted,
LUCILLE ORR, Secretary.

---------------------------------------------------

TOBBDAT, DBOEMBEH 8; 1042THE OABNZQU TABTAM
Davies, Muir To Speak 
At Commencement
This year will be the first time in 
the history of Carnegie Tech that 
graduation exercises will be held 
in chilly December. In spite of the 
expedited program, there still will 
be a Senior Ball, President’s Re­
ception, Baccalaureate Address, and 
Commencement Exercises.
Lt. Col. Clarence E. Davies will 
deliver the main address; Dr. C. 
Marshall Muir will speak at the 
Baccalaureate exercise. Music will
be furnished by the Tech orchestra 
under the direction of Dr. J. Vick 
O'Brien and the choir of the Music 
Department.
Col. Davies is now on active duty 
in the Ordnance Department of the 
U. S. Army. He was graduated from 
Rensselaer as a mechanical engi­
neer, and has been a tool designer 
and rate setter for the Smith Pre­
mier Works of the Remington Type­
writer Co. He was a captain in 
World War I.
Dr. Muir is Minister of the Belle- 
field Presbyterian Church. Carnegie 
Tech is among the many colleges 
and universities he attended, and in 
1916 he served as a private in the
S. A. T. C. at Tech. He is a member 
of Delta Tau Delta, was a mathe­
matics professor, and has written 
many articles for magazines and pe­
riodicals.
The Senior Ball will be on Fri­
day, December 18, at nine o’clock in 
the College of Fine Arts. On Satur­
day there will be a reception by the
Dr. Frederick Seitz 
To Head Physics Dept.
Dr. Frederick Seitz, formerly as­
sociate professor of physics at the 
University of Pennsylvania, „has 
been appointed professor and head
Duty
Calls.
A working, sacrificing, fijjlilitlE America must keep morally and 
physically fit—mentally alert. If you arc one of the 16 million Amer­
ican moo and women for whom Dowling provides a regular stimulat­
ing recreation, you arc co-operating with Unclc Sam’s health program. 
Keeping yourself physically and menially alert is nn important duty— 
not to bo neglected- Bowl a few lines each week—at the beautiful
MURB&Y-EEACON ALLEYS
JAokion 02661016 MURRAY AVENUE
M. M. C. C. Engineers
Continued frcm Page 1 
neering, 2; mathematics, .8 day and 
12 evening; management engineer­
ing, 11; chemistry, 4; printing, 9 day 
and 15 evening; engineering draw­
ing, 2 day and 2 evening.
Prerequisites for the courses vary 
according to the departments in­
volved, but as a general rale Mar­
garet Morrison students, especially 
in the upper classes, will be able 
to present work done in their own 
college, particularly in mathematics 
and science, as prerequisites.
The new demands for women are 
greatest in the fields of chemis­
try, physics, mathematics, metal­
lurgy, engineering drawing, •vand bi­
ology.
Margaret Morrison students who 
are interested in enrolling for 
these courses are urged to consult 
with Director Charles Watkins at 
their earliest convenience in order 
that proper scheduling may be an­
ticipated before actual registration, 
which will star* on January 4.
CWCA-CMCA To Show 
Xmas Spirit Tomorrow
War may have left Techites sans 
.coffee, gas, and cokes, but nothing 
can rob them of the Christmas spir­
it. Said spirit will be much in evi­
dence tomorrow night at seven 
o'clock, when the annual CWCA- 
CMCA Christmas dinfier will be for­
saken for an evening party, due to 
the lack of cooks.
The party will take the form of a 
gigantic Sing, to be held in the Mar­
garet .Morrison Recreation Hall-fea­
turing the Chapel Choir and Wo­
men’s Glee Club. Everyone will get 
a chance to revive theit childhood 
with the singing of the Carols of 
yesteryear. Guest speakers for the 
evening will be Dr. Spencer of the 
Point Breeze Presbyterian Church.
In tune with the weather, ice 
cream and cookies will be served to 
warm your chilblains. For the 
slight sum of twenty-five cents, one 
big nickel, you can sing and eat to 
your hearts content
of the department of physics at 
Carnegie Tech.
Since the death of Dr. Harry S. 
Hower a year ago there has been no 
head of the physics department.
Dr. Seitz is a graduate of Leland 
Stanford Junior University and 
Princeton University, where he re­
ceived his doctor’s degree in 1934. 
He was Procter Fellow at Princeton 
and later taught at the University 
of Rochester. Before he jointed the 
University of Pennsylvania faculty 
he was research physicist for the 
General Electric Company.
The physics of solids, with em­
phasis on metals, glasses, and pig­
ments, is Dr. Seitz’ special field of 
investigation. He has been a pro­
lific writer, having published one 
book, the 650-page “Modem Theory 
of Solids,” and numerous papers 
and reports about his research.
President and Mrs. Doherty for 
members of the graduating class 
and parents, from four to six in the 
College of Fine Arts. The Bac­
calaureate Service will be on Sat­
urday eveining in the Carnegie 
Music Hall at eight o’clock. On Sun­
day, December 20, Commencement 
exercises will be held in the Car­
negie Music Hall at two.
r *«
WAR
needs the wires 
this Christmas!
Wor can’t woit—not even for Christmas. 
Telephone lines must be kept dear for important 
war calls during the holidays as at all other times.
So this year, we must ask everybody not to 
send Christmas or New Year's greetings by Long 
Distance—especially to Washington and other cen­
ters of war activity.
Important war and emergency calls will, of 
course, be given precedence during the holiday 
rush. This means that other calls may be subject to 
long delays on certain over-crowded drcuits to the 
South and to the West. We are sony-!-birt sudi de­
lays may be unavoidable under present conditions.

---------------------------------------------------

THE O ABNEGUE TABTAMTÜEBDAY, DECEMBER 8. 1842
GaufUt On *7<4c JtittU. jbi&k
Kiltie Band and Men’s Glee Club 
Finish Records of Tech Songs
Resplendent in plaid shirts, baggy 
trousers, snappy suits, or blue jeanS, 
the Kiltie band and Men’s Glee Club 
record Tech songs for posterity last 
Wednesday night.
Underrthe harried supervision of 
Jack Van Arsdell, sweet music was 
made after much rehearsing. First 
it was just ordinary rehearsing. 
Then it was under the eagle ear of 
Bill Hines, Elec. ’45, who was buried 
in a comer with wire and heavy 
boxes with dials on them. He cooed 
sweet nothings into a telephone 
about A. C. and D. C. and other long 
words to the recorder who was sta­
tioned in the studio over in the 
Schenley Hotel. The recorder is 
William Beall, a graduate of Tech, 
who was contracted by Student 
Council to make the master record.
It was. an interesting picture. 
James Morrow, conductor of the or­
chestra, stood puffing his long cigar 
trying to become completely com­
posed before starting the tedious 
ordeal, while listening to Tom Pur­
cell directing the Glee Club in a 
personal arrangement of the Alma 
Mater. Both the drummer on the 
big drum, and the drummer on the 
small ones were twisting drum­
sticks like majorettes to limber 
their wrists the Tartan photogra­
pher set his lights on his tripods, re­
set them, and took pictures. Mr. 
Hines kept murmuring; while the 
bagpipers blew a few red-faced
chords. The president of Student 
Council helped carry in a carpet to 
cut reverberation while someone 
else went about gathering coats to 
lay on all the furniture, and the 
doors were plastered with fibre- 
board; and havoc reigned supreme.
The havoc was dispersed, though, 
when the Tech musicians really got 
down to work. Mr. Morrow went 
over the B. O.—like tune that comes 
in the middle of one of the songs, 
the Glee Club rose in volume, Mr. 
Hines stopped murmuring long 
enough to signal for a “dress re­
hearsal.” With his “All set? Roll 
’em. Needle down,” action really 
began. When he said, “We’re gonna 
go” and repeated that “Roll ’em” 
part the recordings were on.
With typical Tech efficiency, the 
first takes were good ones and were 
played back to a highly appreciative 
audience.
The result will be two sides of a 
twelve-inch disk prepared by the 
New . York-Scranton Record Com­
pany from cuts made by the Schen­
ley Hotel Studio and Radio Subsid­
iaries, to which the music was wired 
from the Music Room of the Arts 
Building.
Sale of the records to the students 
will begin as soon as the records ar­
rive (December 20), at seventy-five 
cents apiece.
“The Coke's in”
“That’s the happy greeting heard today when a 
new supply of Coke arrives al a cooler. Folks 
wait for it...wait because the only thing like 
Coca-Cola is Coca-Cola Itself. Customers smile 
and start moving up to pause and be refreshed.
“There’s a cheerful spirit about this way of 
accepting wartime restrictions. Morale is high.’’
Muitc SpeaJzi,
Student Body Gives 
Records To Belvoir
Say it with music—and in time 
for Christmas, too. Yes, Carnegie 
Tech’s student body and faculty 
members have established a master 
record library for the service men 
at Fort Belvoir, Virginia. This army 
camp was the preference of the 
school, for many of our engineers 
and other students are in training 
at this military post.
Mary Reed, a Music' Department 
senior who was responsible for the 
gay, patriotic red, white and blue 
money boxes used in collecting vol­
unteer funds for the music library, 
has been, assured by Mr. Donald 
Steinfirst of the Pittsburgh Commit­
tee for Armed Forces Master Rec­
ords, Inc., that the library will ar­
rive at Fort Belvoir in time for hol­
iday celebrations. The records will 
receive especial attention at the 
camp, for they will be deposited in 
the central library, loaned out to 
barracks as in the case of books, 
with full responsibility for care, 
used in service club concerts, and 
perhaps over the camp speaker sys­
tem. The extent'to which the rec­
ords will circulate will depend upon 
the wishes of the men and the in­
genuity of the camp librarian.
Tech has every right to feel proud 
in having contributed this library, 
for only recently the Virginia post 
requested a music unit. The boys 
at Belvoir may not write—but their 
thanks are there even if not ex­
pressed.
E. K. N. Holds Elections
Eta Kappa Nu and the A. I. E. E. 
have elected new officers for the 
next semester. Last Thursday night 
Eta Kappa Nu, electrical honoary, 
chose for President Leslie Frost; 
Vice President, George Gallousis; 
Recording Secretary, Bill Shepard; 
Corresponding Secretary, Joe Eash 
(evening school); Treasurer, Carl 
Olson; and Bridge Correspondence, 
Charles Goehring. The Electrical 
Engineering Seminar elected the A.
I. E. E. officers last Thursday after­
noon. They were: Chairman, Bill 
Shafer; Vice President, Leslie Frost; 
Recording Secretary, Dave Gilman; 
Corresponding Secretary, De Witt 
'Lyon; and Treasurer, Philip De 
lvemois.
New Special Committee 
Plans Share-the-Rides
At the December meeting of the 
Executive Board, a special commit­
tee of the Board on Organized 
Transportation Plan was appointed. 
The main functions of this commit­
tee shall be to assist the faculty, 
staff, 'and students to make ride- 
sharing arrangements and to certify 
to the validity of the statements 
made in the “application for supple­
mental mileage ration” for the pur­
pose of “driving between home and 
fixed place of work” or between 
home and fixed place of study.
Gasoline rationing and rubber 
conservation, together with congest­
ed public transportation, make it 
necessary for all students and mem-, 
bers of the faculty who drive auto­
mobiles to school to arrange to 
Share-the-Ride. In order to facili­
tate such arrangements, the Execu­
tive Board formed the special Com­
mittee. This Committee urges stu­
dents and faculty to consider the 
following information at once.
For those who wish to join, or 
form a Share-the-Ride group, the 
Committee has arranged the follow­
ing plan. Each interested person 
should fill out a penny postal card 
with this information: 1. Name; 2. 
Address; 3. Telephone number; 4. 
“I have a car which I wish to share” 
or “I am interested in making ar­
rangements to ride to school" 
(Write in whichever sentence ap­
plies) .
Address the postal card to Box 
“B", Carnegie Tech Post Office, and 
mail or drop in the C. I. T. post of­
fice. These cards will be posted on 
the bulletin board by the receiving 
office (near the post office), so that 
people who are interested can find 
each other and form their groups.
Drivers who arrange with several 
others for transportation to and 
from school may apply to their lo­
cal ration board for supplemental 
gasoline ration with reasonable as­
surance that the application will be 
approved. If more than one of the 
group is to drive his car at different 
times, each driver should file a sup­
plemental application.
Students who make application 
for supplemental gasoline ration 
should submit the application pro­
perly filled out, to Mr. Murphy, Ind. 
246, for preliminary approval.
A.
One Way Round TripCHICAGO . . • . . $6.60 §9.90
30 Day Excursion — Leave Any Day, Betun Any Day
OTHER LOW FARES
Round
One Way Trip
NEW70BK.............................................................$6.60 $11.90Cleveland ................................................................ 2.00 3.60
Detroit...................................................................... 4.40 7.96
Columbus.................................................................. 2.90 4.96Indianapolis ............................................................ 5.O6 8.00
St. Louis................................................................... e.66 14.76
Los Angeles ............................................................ 38.60 69.30
Through Express Service — No Local Stops 
For further Information
TRAIL WAYS BUS DEPOT
1011 Liberty Avenue Phone GRant 5744

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1942THE OABHZQg TARTAN6
HITOHING POST: Marion Davis has retired from active combat—the man 
is Andy Ritter, a Naval Architect at Dravo . . . “Bouncing Bill” Beamer 
has just pinned Alita Cornelius. He probably got his speedy technique 
from his training on the Cross-Country Team ... Mary McCarthy’s new . 
Theta Xi pin (from Danny Dickenson) makes the fourth that the Kappas 
have nabbed. Just watch the T. X.'s smoke from now on!
FUNNIEST STORY OP THE WEEK was told to your reporter by Dorrie 
O’Brien, who walked into the Tarry last week and said she nearly fainted 
to see “everyone with the wrong people.” What she probably meant was 
Fritz Bealfeld with Babs Burns, Beth McKenney with Rex Stevenson, Jack 
Woodside with Alita Cornelius, B.
p. (before pin), and Maureen Dyer Sigma Xi Initiates New
wn‘™ ™nflA1fabarnav! , Members At Local ClubODDS AND ENDS from here and
there: When. Beta Ralph Martin 
was home, he spent the entire time 
with Billie Sommerfield . . . Just 
watch that Hank Holets-Doris Bow­
man couple—they're on their way
lo Town from all we can make out
Sigma Xi, science honorary fra­
ternity of Carnegie Tech, held its 
annual initiation of members and 
associates December 2 at the Col­
lege Club.
The highlight of the program was 
address by Dr. Ernest Beri of
. . . And we hear there is a Beta at the Research Science department 
Ohio State who’s dying by inches 
because Marie \Shurko won’t wear 
his pin.
BRAND NEW I.F. COUPLES: Ruth 
Means and Jimmy Balmer. Sally
titled "Men of Science and the 
Arts.” In addition to enumerating 
great men and noting the character­
istics which made them great, Dr. 
Bery showed some pictures of his 
coin collection containing coins 
Craig and Al Johannessen. Janie made in-honor of men of science. 
Branagan and Jimmy Braden. Ele- Those initiated as student associ- 
anor Wilson and Frank Keck, ates are: George M. Anderson, Don- 
Maureen Dyer and Doug Dobson. aid J. Barrett, Jack L. Bowers, Eliz- 
HOW HICE TO SEE Penn Griflen abeth A. Buckman, Margaret A.M O A AA R.AAA Carver, Rachel A. Comer, Johnand Peggy Cole together agam. D.t- Njcholas Dateshi Egon
ot Pat Fullerton and Rodger Beal. DeZubay, Robert Lee Dietrich, Her- 
ALSO WATCH: Betsy Ross and bert Enlow Elliott, Edward L. Fire- 
Bob Nycum. Johnny Lindberg and man, Millard Freeman Gordon, L. 
Mary Forman. Pat McCollough and D'Arle Hindall, J. W. Hurford, Ed- 
^ i ** *• n.L win T. Kruszewski, Benjamin C.Derek Martin. Bob Mellers and T , 1 „ J c. ,i*. „ nr¦ 11* t ti-«rri Marcin, Leonard B. Prus, StanleyDolly Willison. Barb Lindstrom A _____ A11„
and Bob Herrod.
DOUBLE TROUBLE: Things have 
been going mighty wrong for some 
of our boys—first the Delts get fined 
$500 for going out and leaving their 
lights on during a Blackout, and
A. Rosecrans, Paul Allen Smudski, 
Everett Halliday Stetson, Jr.
Arts Rushing
All freshman girls in Arts School 
who are interested in sororities are
then the Kappa Sigs' cook forgot to invited to the assembly in the Lit-
show up and the boys had to cook tie Theater at 11:30. Tuesday, Janu-
thoir own breakfast after Interfra- ary 5, and the Non-Rushing Tea on
lemity. Wednesday, the 6th, at Whitfield
Hall from 4:30 to 6.
----------ON THE RECORD—-------- ------------------------------------------------
Teachers Get Ratings 
Through Senior Vote
For four years the seniors have 
talked about' and have. rated their 
professors in little private bull ses­
sions, but never had these.little dis­
cussions brought about any changes 
in the prof concerned, and they be­
came, virtually, just another mean^ 
of blowing off steam and placing the 
blame for an unfinished assignment 
or a flunked exam on someone else, 
who was not necessarily to 'blame.
Recognizing that our teachers do 
have faults — in some cases these 
faults being quite severe—the Tech 
chapter of Tau Beta Pi has decided 
to hold a rating of the engineering 
professors, with the seniors voting 
as to how they would rate each of 
their instructors. The electricals 
were handed their ballots yester­
day, and the others will be handed 
theirs either today or tomorrow.
Each professor will be rated from 
one to five on each of fourteen 
points. Five will indicate a very 
poor standing and one will- show 
that a student’s opinion of his prof 
on that, particular basis is excellent. 
The fourteen points on which the 
teachers are to be judged are: (1) 
enthusiasm toward teaching, .(2) 
knowledge of courses, (3) ability to 
get the point across, (4) delivery, 
(5) apparent preparation given to 
lectures, (6) interest in individual 
students—that is, does he take an 
interest in each of his students as in­
dividuals?—, (7) outside-of-class-
room contact with students, (8) 
ability to stick to the subject in a 
class discussion, (9) sensing when 
the students are keeping up, (10) 
punctuality, (11) assignments — 
length, (12) assignments—quality, 
(13) quizzes — length, and (14) 
quizzes—quality.
The results will not, of course, be 
made public, but each professor will 
be informed of his own rating with 
the hope that he will find some way 
of improving.
This scheme has already been 
tried out at the University of Mis­
souri with much success, and it is 
hoped that the cooperation at Tech 
will be such that it can be equally 
successful here.
Nine Pine Street Ends 
Tech's Winter Drama Ron
With the production of “Nine Pine 
Street” now playing at the Little 
Theatre, the Drama Department 
rounds out another semester of 
plays. Thomas Job directed the play, 
which will run through this week, 
with matineès on both Friday and 
Saturday. Michael Sivy designed 
the set.
This play is based on the famous 
Lizzie Borden .murder case which 
startled the country just before the 
turn of the century. Lizzie Borden 
murdered both her parents but was. 
acquitted of the crime through the 
influence of the church in her New 
England town. John • Colton and 
Carlton Miles, authors of the play, • 
have adhered closely to the details 
of the actual news story, changing 
only the names of the characters. 
The Tech Drama Department pro­
duction of this play has been double
Deans Give Senior Ball 
For December Graduates
Bill LeRoy and his orchestra will 
provide the music for this year’s 
Senior Ball, which will be held for 
the first time in the Fine Arts Build- 
in Friday, December 18, from nine 
until one o’clock.. Each graduating 
senior will receive an invitation 
that will admit two people. Dr. 
Beryl Warden, Mrs. Yon and Dean 
A. J. Murphy are giving the dance 
in honor of all of the seniors who 
are being graduated in December. 
Formerly this dance was given by 
Student Council and was open to 
the whole schooL
HOTEL WEBSTER 
HALL
Available For
PRIVATE PARTIES 
BANQUETS 
SWIMMING PARTIES
MAyflower 7700 
Fifth near Mellon Institute
Today
12:30, Room 157, Arts, Mr. Charles 
A. H. Pearson will supervise this 
phonograph recital:
First Symphony.................Sibelius
Thursday 
12:30, Room 157, Arts, Dr. Fred­
erick Dorian will be in charge of 
this program:
Ninth Symphony.............Bruckner
Fari Fit» is the Place 
to Rent
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlontio 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
r-Sm YOUR BAGGAGE AHEAD'
-AND TAKE YOUR TRAIN CAREFREE!
Don’t stare for home cluttered up with luggage. Just phone . 
Railway NEQIo66 and we’ll call for your crunks and bags, 
speed them to your home, and save you time and needless 
worry. Gives you mote room and comfott on the traio, too, 
to say nothing of pick-up and delivery at no extra charge 
within our regular vehicle limits in all does and principal 
towns.
You can send "collect", too, when you use ST1UFTC NEH
QIo66A L116G pboae for information or service.
¡XPRESS
agency yjjr ine*
I NATION-WIDE KAIL-AIR SKRVICSi

---------------------------------------------------

THE OABNEOIE TARTANTPE8DAT, DEOBMBMtg, ma
For Your Approval—vised ^Cornstrtution
CONSTITUTION OF THE STUDENT 
COUNCIL OF CARNEGIE 
INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
PREAMBLE
Whereas, we, the undergraduate Stu­dent Body of the’Carnegie Institute 'of 
.Technology, 'believe that the- Student 
Bodies of each of the three component 
colleges should be united as a group of 
students and that' affairs concerning the 
entire Student Body should be dealt with 
by- a central organization, we do hereby, place such matters in the hands of a rep­
resentative body whose' name, organiza­
tion, and powers are defined below. 
ARTICLE I—Name 
Section I
The name of this organization shall be 
the Student Council of Carnegie Institute 
of Technology.
ARTICLE n
Representation and Organization
Section I
The Council shall be composed as fol-
(a) Each college (College of Engineer­
ing, College of Fine Arts, and Margaret 
Morrison Carnegie College) shall have 
one voting member on Council for every 
one hundred (100) (or major fraction 
thereof) full-time, undergraduate *Stu- 
studenls enrolled in that college, as shown 
-by the Registrar’s official lists for the 
semester in which general elections are
. held.(b) There shall be the following non-
voting members: Two assistant treas­
urers from the College of Engineering, one 
assistant ‘treasurer from the College of 
Fine Arts, three assistant secretaries from Margaret Morrison Carnegie College, and 
three sophomore Representatives.¦ (c) Election of all representatives shall
be in accordance with the methods as 
specified in the By-Laws of Student 
Council.Section II(a) In the College of Engineering and 
in. Margaret Morrison Carnegie College, 
two-thirds of the voting members of 
Council shall be from the Senior Class 
and the remaining number shall be from 
the Junior Class. Senior and Junior rep­
resentatives shall be elected on two sepa­
rate ballots.(lb) In the College of Fine Arts voting 
representatives shall be members of the 
Junior and Senior Classes. The number 
of men voting representatives shall be 
equal to the number, of full-time men stu­
dents divided by the total number of full­
time students multiplied by the total 
number of voting representatives to be elected. The remaining number of vot­
ing representatives shall be' women.(c) The Secretary and Treasurer shall 
count as voting representatives from their 
colleges; so that for general elections in a college having the incoming Secretary or 
Treasurer of Student Council, the Student Body will actually elect one less voting 
representative than they will have on 
Council for the coming year.
(d) The assistant secretaries and treas­
urers shall be members of the Junior 
Class for the year in which they serve as 
assistant officers.(e) There shall be one non-voting 
sophomore representative from each of 
the three colleges, elected at large by 
their respective colleges.
(f) All members of Council other than 
the Secretary and Treasurer shall be 
elected at large by their respective col­leges. All representatives to hold office 
shall be full-time undergraduate day- 
school students declared eligible by the 
Registrar.(g) Fractions of one-half (Vi) or more 
shall be considered an integer in deter­
mining the representation under ArticleII Section I, Section II, and in determin­
ing a quorum under Article II Section 
IX, and in passing By-Laws under Ar­
ticle V, and in voting to recall under 
Article VIII, and in voting to amend un­der Article IX, and in voting to revise 
under Article X.Section III
The <16™ of office of all members shall 
be, unless otherwise noted, from the time 
of election to Council in the spring until 
the new Council convenes and organizes 
in the following spring.
Artists and Draftsmen 
declare this ink to be
It flows more freely, does not calce 
in bottles, or on the pen or brush, 
thoroughly waterproof in 20colon. 
Available at your favorite school 
supply outlet, manufactured by
LOUIS MELIND COMPANY 
362 W. Chicago Avenue ' 
Dept. 00 CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
RODGERS
DAISY STORES
MILK SHAKES
Made from Pure Whole Milk for 
only 10c
We Do Not Use Skim Milk.
NEAREST STORES LOCATED 
------AT------
3905 FORBES STREET 
Near Bouquet Street 
4619 CENTER AVENUE
Near Craig Street
c-w’'’ft1 Jar -tk'13
66 Baffle FilterThrillsSmokers
USED IN MEDICO PIPES, CIGAR, 
AND CIGARETTE HOLDERS
New York—The scientific, absorbent filter baa contributed mightily to the smoking pleasure of millions oi men aoo women who have switched to Medico Filtered Smoking. Actually, the smoke must travel through 66 "baffles" before reaching the mouth. Flakes and slues are trapped: and the smoke is whirl-cooled as it winds ite way through the filter.
shall be: President, Vice-President, Sec­
retary, and Treasurer.(b) The President of the Council shall 
be a senior elected by the old Council 
at the first regular meeting after the gen­
eral election results are known for all representstives-elect. The representative 
elected President shall thereafter vote 
only in case of tie. The runner-up of this 
election shall be Vice-President.
(c) The Secretary and the Treasurer 
shall be elected by the old Council from 
the assistants of that year two weeks be­
fore the general elections.
Section V
(a) The President shall preside at all 
meetings when present, shall have power 
to call special meetings with the authori­
zation of the Executive Committee, shall 
preside efficiently when called upon. He 
semblies of the entire Student Body, and shall perform other duties usually asso­
ciated with this office. He shall further 
preserve and be responsible for all rec­
ords of the Council, until the new Council 
organizes in the spring. He shall further 
see that the first meeting of the, new 
Council is held with all possible dispatch.
(b) It shall be the duty of the Vice- 
President to preside in the abscnce of 
the President and to keep closely informed 
of the business of the Council so as to 
preside at all duly authorized general as- 
shall also perform whatever duties may 
be usual to the office, or especially as­
signed thereto.
(c) The Secretary shall be responsible 
for the files of the Student Council, shall 
have charge of the Assistant Secretaries, 
and shall assign them to the .various com­
mittees upon which they are to serve. She 
shall keep the minutes and handle all 
correspondence.(d),The Treasurer shall handle all funds 
for the Council. He shall be required to 
give a report of the status of every organ­
ization receiving allowances from the 
Student Council budget, when requested 
to do so by the President of the Council. He 
shall make a monthly report at the Coun­
cil Meeting. He shall have charge of the 
Assistant Treasurers and shall assign 
them to the various committees - upon 
which they are to serve. He shall be 
bonded as the Student Council may deem 
expedient.
Section VI—Vacancies
(a) In the event of a vacancy in the
office of President, the Vice-President
shall succeed as President and continue 
as such for the remainder of the term. 
In case of the Vice-President succeeding 
to the Presidency or otherwise causing a 
vacancy, another Vice-President shall be 
elected by and from the Council.
(b) In the event oi a vacancy in the
office of Secretary or Treasurer, it shall be filled by election in the Council from the 
Assistant Secretaries or Treasurers of the previous year, providing the vacancy oc­
curs before the assistants of the current 
year have had at least three months’ ac­
tive experience on Council. However, the 
vacancy shall be filled from the As­
sistant Secretaries or Treasurers of the current year if the assistants concerned 
have had three months' active experience.
(c) In the event of any Representative 
vacancy, the place on Council shall be
Let's go to
ISALY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM CONES 
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District
680B Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT;
3660 Boulevard oi the Alliei
filled by another election in the college,concerned.
Section VH-mCommitteea 
(a) The work of .the Student .Council shall be carried on by means of various 
committees appointed by the President. 
These committees shall be known as fol­
lows: Budget, Publications, Elections,Social, Special, Freshman Regulations and 
Orientation, Executive, Points and Keys
Assemblies, and Permanent. DecorationsCommittees.
(For membership and duties of Com* mittees, see By-Laws.)
Section VIII—Meetings 
This Council shall hold weekly meeU 
ings, the time of which is to be set by the 
. Executive Committee. Special meetings 
are to be called by the Executive Com-
Section IX—Quorum 
A quorum shall consist of three-fourths of the voting members of the Council ii 
eluding the President.
ARTICLE IH—Powers of the CouncilSection I
All actions taken by this Council shall 
be considered as actions of the Student 
Body, except as provided In Article VII.
Section II 
This Council shall:
I. Have control and jurisdiction over 
all student organizations in the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology» and all extra­
curricular, non-athletic student activities; 
and have power to authorize and revoke 
constitutions of these organizations and 
activities. The only exceptions shall be:
(a) Jurisdiction over activities and or­
ganizations which no no way involve any 
student or students other than residents 
of the dormitories shall be delegated to 
the Men's Dormitory Council and the 
Women's Dormitory Council.
(b)Jurisdiction over activities and < 
gani2ations which In no way involve any 
student or students other than members 
of social fraternities and sororities shall 
-be delegated to the Interfralemlty Coun­
cil and the Intersorority Council. In c 
neclion with this power, Student Council 
shall be the policy-making body in all 
matters applicable to the Student Body or 
any Class as a whole or to any extra­
curricular activity except ae qualified in 
I (a) and (b) of this Section.II. Recommend to the Executive Board 
each year the detailed annual budget of the Student Council and be responsible 
for the administration of expenditures 
under the approved budget.III. Authorize and supervise all drives 
for funds for special purposes.IV. Establish and perpetuate school 
spirit, customs, and traditions.V. Supervise Freshman Regulations 
and Orientation.VI. Authorlzo all student social func­
tions and rallies held in the Gymnasium 
and Thistle Hall.VII. Make recommendations on ques­
tions of discipline when requested to do 
so by the Discipline Committee of the 
Administration.
VIII. Have a voting member on the 
Rules and Regulation Committee of the 
Executive Board.
ARTICLE IV—Publicity
Segtion IIt shall be the duty of the Student 
Council to publish notice In the TARTAN 
of all actions affecting the entire Stu­
dent Body immediately after such actions 
are taken.
Section II 
The Student Council shall publish In 
the TARTAN a complete list of the offices 
to be filled at least one week before can­
didate petitions are due.Section III 
Regular Student Council meetings shall 
at all times be open to all students In c~ 
dor that any student may express 
views openly to Council and In order that 
underclassmen may understand the func- Contlnued on P&0C •
STUDENTS!
Suits—Dresses SYP
Cleaned and Pressed..
Slacks—Sweaters 35C 
Cleaned and Pressed.. ******
Campus Cleaners
4600 Vorbea.Stroet '
We Call and Deliver

---------------------------------------------------

irwgahAYvbfeelEMBEEa. 16«â
--------------------
ïaas oAfiHsàre RT6RB, DDD
Cagers Sel For Season Opener; 
Battle Waynesburg Tomorrow Nite
Ringing up • the curtain for its 
second war time season, the Skibo
George Marck — flash from last 
year’s freshman team; headed for
cagers will battle the Waynesburg stardom and high scoring honors. 
Yellow Jackets tomorrow night in Bob De&ortoli — stalwart guard 
the gym at 8:30. In the prelimin- and veteran of last year, shoots long 
aries the. JayVee squad will tangle and short shots equally as well.
” Frank Showman'—forward from
last year is a real threat when the 
pressure is on and has lots of fight.
Hugh Smith — veteran floorman 
from two years back. He's a smooth
with Central Catholic at 7:00.
The Tartan five will be under the 
aggressive leadership of Dave 
Brinn. He says, "We are a fighting 
team and the best Tech has had in
recent years." This brief statement ball handler and will be hot when 
amply describes the 1942-43 edition his game knee gets better.
of Coach Hannum’s cagers, 
eleventh since his arrival at Tech.
Bill Bogswell — fast veteran who 
loops them in the bucket from the
The team is out to help Max cele- corners, and is a good passer and 
brate his birthday of yesterday with floor
a victory.For Tech it will be Brinn, Marck, 
Meyer, DeBortoli and Showman. 
For replacements, Coach can call on 
Kelly, Sherman, Hugh and Harry 
Smith, Cogswell, Culbertson, Luth­
er, Cantini, Neleson and Pakura. 
This years squad is well-balanced 
with both speed and sharp-shooters. 
Shots at the Varsity
Captain Dave Brinn — the back- 
bone> of the whole team. Is a good 
fighter, and will fight, score, and 
lead his team to victory.
With the good reserves Max Han- 
num has to call on and a little sup­
port from the crowd this team is al­
most sure to click. That’s the story 
of the opener for tomorrow night 
as it is seen at the present. We
George Meyer — first string cen- have the team which, if backed by 
ter; watch him go up after the ball spirit, will be the victors in the bat­
on either back board; very decep- tie with the Yellow Jackets tomor- 
tive; shoots well from the pivot.______row._______________________________
New Constitution .. .
Continued from Page 6 
tions and duties of the various represen­
tatives.
ARTICLE 7—By-Laws
• Section I 
(a) The Council may pass such By- 
Laws as it deems necessary by a favorable 
vote oi three-fourths of the voting Coun­
cil members.
(•b) A proposed by-law must be sub­
mitted in writing at a regular meeting of. 
this Council. It shall be read and tabled ' 
for one'week before being voted on. 
ARTICLE VI—rInitiative 
. Section 1 
A petition signed by one hundred (100) full-time students shall be sufficient to 
require the Council to take a vote on any 
matter desired within three school weeks from the time the petition is presented to 
the President of the Council.
ARTICLE VH—Referendum 
Section I
Any action taken by the Council shall 
be accepted by the Student Body with the 
following exception:
A petition signed by three hundred (300) full-time students shall make it 
necessary for the Council to submit the 
matter to a vote at a General Assembly,
. within three school weeks from the time 
the petition is presented to the President 
of Student Council. A majority voteof 
the full-time students present will be necessary to reverse the action of the 
Council, except as specified in Article IX 
Section I (a). The restraining petition 
must be presented to the President of Stu­
dent Council within two school weeks 
from the time the Student Body receives
notice of the action of .the Council. 
ARTICLE Vm—Sèèall
Section. I
(a) Action to recall any officer or mem­ber Of the Student Council must begin 
with a petition signed by three hundred (300)- full-time students of the institution, ¦ and receive a favorable vote of three- 
fourths of..the..voting members of this 
Council.
ARTICLE IX—Amendments 
Section I
(a) • This Constitution may be amend- - 
ed by a favorable vote of three-fourths 
of the voting' members of. this Council, together with a two-thirds vote of all full-time students present at a General 
Assembly; or in case of referendum, by 
a three-fourths vote of the full-time stu­
dents present at a General Assembly;.
(*b) ..A proposed . amendment to this - Constitution must be submitted in writing 
at a regular meeting of this Council.' It 
shall ‘be read and tabled- for one week be­
fore being voted on.
ARTICLE X—Revision
Section I
Revision of this Constitution may be enacted by the Student Council when' 
deemed necessary by that body, and shall' 
be accepted by a favorable vote of three- 
fourths of the voting members of the Council together with a two-thirds vote' 
of all the full-time students present at a 
General Assembly.
ARTICLE XI—Ratification Section IThis Constitution .shall be deemed rati­
fied and will go into effect immediately 
upon approval by the Executive Board 'of Carnegie Institute of Technology . and 
upon receiving a favorable vote of a ma­
jority of the full- •time students present at 
a General Assembly. ' ______

---------------------------------------------------

the o taxwaa tabtanTUESDAY, DtOSMBER 8, 19«
Jimmy Thomson Plays Dec. 12 
For Annual Christmas Dance
Nancy Lewis New The Carnegie PlaidJ Page edited by Evening scnool Students
This Saturday evening, December 
12, the heretofore Engineer’s annual 
Christmas Dance will take place in 
the form of an All-College Dance. 
Thistle Hall has been selected as the 
site for this super occasion.
If you have frequented any of 
Pittsburgh’s nigst-spots, you cer­
tainly have danced to this orchestra 
one time or another. It is composed 
of .ten members, two of whom are 
girjs. One of them is the featured 
vocalist while the other is a well 
known trumpet player. She has 
played many performances before 
many' audiencefi and with superla­
tive acclaim. Jimmy Thompson, the 
leader together with Mickey Dolan, 
the. Vocalist, and the entire band ex­
tend to all of you a most cordial 
welcome.
As for the decorations, “Al” Flan­
ders, the social chairman, and his 
crew are entitled to orchids. Be pre­
pared for the unusual as “Al” keeps 
in step with the oncoming Holiday 
season. He requests all workers to 
come out to any or all of the three 
work periods, namely: one o’clock 
Saturday afternoon, the evening of 
the.'dance, and two o’clock Sunday.
All students in all three colleges 
will be admitted free upon presenta­
tion of their registration card, while 
all others, including day and de­
fense students, will be taxed $1.10 
per couple.
New Registration 
On Jan. 4th & 5th
Carnegie Plaid, with this issue, 
bids,adieu to the 1941 season. It is 
felt that the yeaT has been a pleas­
ant as well as a profitable one. In 
addition to carrying on the usual 
run of business, reporting school ac­
tivities pnri campus social affairs, 
many friendships among the large 
staff of workers have been formed. 
Incidentally, the phrase "large staff 
of workers’* is not just lightly used, 
for the students have really showed 
great interest in the paper by turn- 
ing out in large number to help with 
the work. The Plaid, after all, be- 
longs to the students and any opin­
ions or views that they may wish to 
have published will be welcomed 
by the Editor.
December 19th is the last day of 
school, and January 4th and 5th 
have been designated as registration 
days for the new semester. We hope 
that all our students will find it 
possible to register at this time and 
of course all new-comers to the cam­
pus will be warmly welcomed.
Our wish for the season is that 
the work will continue on in the 
same friendly and cooperative man­
ner which has made the past months 
seem to pass so swiftly.
% Zdito*
In a recent letter I was repri­
manded for not taking the initiative 
to enlarge on a definite system, after 
having suggested a “Sftare-a-Rtde" 
plan to meet the present transporta­
tion emergency—The Ed.
In previous issues we suggested 
that all students willing to share 
their cars contact The Plaid Office. 
Toj, date we have received one re- 
ply.
It; seems plausible, since gas ra­
tioning is now in effect, that more 
students would have the foresight 
to o.ffer their cars. The point of the 
plan is: A person riding three or 
fout others to school, is in itself 
a form of indirect defense work, of 
a preparatory or “brush-up” nature, 
but’ the never-the-less in the interest 
of the war effort. This assistance to 
others in the furtherance of a mu­
tual cause might possibly bear 
weight in a car owner’s ef­
forts to obtain additional gas.
Those wishing to take part in this 
plan are asked to submit their name, 
address,' telephone number, and a 
description of the route they travel 
to reach schooL This information 
should be deposited in the Evening 
School Box 353, Administration 
Hall (no postage necessary). All re­
plies will be printed in future issues 
of The Plaid.
We believe this to be the only de­
sirable way to expedite the plan. 
All information received will be 
published for the guidance of those 
seeking a means of attending school. 
It will then remain for these indi­
viduals to contact the car owner 
traveling in his direction and 
make his own arrangements for 
transportation to and from school.
SUaste 'Ijau'h Gasi
The following students are inter­
ested in sharing their cars with 
others attending Carnegie Tech 
Evening School.
A. C. Flanders, Carrick, Pa.,
Phone Carrick 3690-R.
J. C. Rymar, Turtle Creek,
Pa., Phone Valley 2525-J.
R. C. King, East McKeesport,
' Pa., Phone Valley 4054.
John Hundertmark, Etna, Pa.,
Phone Sterling 2982.
Anyone living in the vicinity of 
these towns who would care to join 
in the pooling of cars may call the 
individual listed.
Fine Arts Pres.
Just in case you have any difficul­
ty in recognizing this lovely young 
lady, we'll give you a clue, her name 
is Nancy Lewis. Nancy holds the ti­
tle of President of the College j>f 
Fine Arts, which is in itself quite an
jrlly endorsed by the Editorial Board <
honor, as she is'the‘first girl ever 
to be named president in the col­
lege. An active worker in student 
council events, she has already 
earned three insignias and her per­
sonality and interest in campus ac­
tivities will probably lead her on 
to even greater fame and achieve­
ment. Wherever things are buzzing, 
that’s where you’ll find Nancy, and 
her interest and enthusiasm in what 
others are doing have won her the 
affection and esteem of her fellow 
students.
New Industries Officers
At a recent meeting of the Stu­
dent Council, President Stephen 
Marcinizyn appointed officers to 
represent the College of Industries 
for the ensuing year. Philip Cam- 
vale was named President and 
George Riffle as Vice-President and 
Assistant Social Chairman. This 
finally gives Industries representa­
tion in Council and puts them on a 
par with Engineering. Fine Arts 
officers will be appointed at the next 
session in the event they have any 
eligible students; otherwise, a rep­
resentative group of active Arts stu­
dents will be invited' to sit in on 
Council meetings.
LOST
A pair oi pink rimmed glasses. In 
Margaret Morrison on November 12. 
Substantial reward offered for any in­formation leading to their return. SChenley 0138 
TIM TIMBERLAKE
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 tfonltor et HA 0193
Mrs. W. J. Summerfleld
Themes, papers typed accurately. 
Law student rate. JXT, G620-R. 60c 
per 3,600.
DANCE
—to—
BILLY HINDS
—and—
HIS ORCHESTRA
FORMAL DANCING
Every Saturday Evening
INFORMAL DANCING
Every Friday Evening 
at 10 :00 P. M, $1.00 ^er person
Including midnight supper.
HOTEL SCHENLEY
>bcrt 84VVP1
The corners at Thistle Hall really 
were lovely Jim Flaherty, and we 
heard many compliments on them. 
Congrats, you did it again ... In­
cidentally Jim's usual partner, Bob 
Lenigan, is laid up with an impend­
ing appendectomy. Hurry back, Bob, 
’cause we all sure miss you (and 
your car) . . . Who is “Black-out 
Peggy?”? All the boys know but 
none will tell Harvey Johnson. Poor 
guy, or is he? . . . Now really Ed 
Macha, you should pick on some­
one your size for a change. No more 
kidding smaller guys, and we’re not 
foolin’ either . . . Jean Mfeenan 
finally decided which of the hand­
some men would take her to the 
dance last week, and we hear they 
had a wonderful time . . . Why 
must Al Flanders and John Hun­
dertmark go for the same luscious 
Art’s student when there is such a 
shortage‘of men? It isn't fair . . . 
Certain people missed connections 
after the dance — six bewildered 
“babes in the woods” wandered into 
Childs—the other fourteen ended up 
at the Union Grill (paid advertise­
ment) . . . Claire Hinnebusch, 
Arts’ student last year, must still be 
interested in Carnegie for she at­
tended the dance last time and is 
planning on being present at the 
Christmas dance . . . Jim Wemer, 
the glamor boy of Engineering, 
plans to leave the girls soon. Must 
Uncle Sam take him too? . . . Many 
thanks to Mary Considine for her 
help in editing this page.
PRE-MILITARY TRAININO 
for MEN of MILITARY AOS_ CIVILIAN TRAININO
. MACHINIST 
(TOOL A DIE MAKINO 
INSTRUMENT MAKINO3 *t> 12 WB« CÔUI9K
kuvmh UiMMifcrtbtertfl.f. •«Inan, wrlti m C«ll • fopetllM Tttk Stmittdt Thrmf
