i Student Government Presi- 
' dent, Jim Denburg (left), and 
Student Senate Chairman 
Peter Cohen on the job during 
a Senate meeting. See the 
Features section for a full 
i story on Student Senate.
Last Friday, Dean of Student Affairs Brad 
Walter, distributed a warning memo to all 
resident students concerning dangerous LSD 
that has been circulating through campus in 
recent weeks. The memo was sent in 
response to several life-threatening incidents 
involving Carnegie Mellon students.
Saturday, August 30 at about 12:30 AM, 
a freshman male and two companions were 
reported to be causing problems in Skibo 
parking lot. The student first attempted to 
break into a car, and then kicked an escort 
service driver. He was finally restrained by 
several people. His two companions had fled 
when escort arrived.
The normally "passive" male was 
violently out of control, delirious and 
hallucinating - repeating random phrases 
such as "police" and "acid". He was 
transported to Presbyterian Hospital where 
doctors were admittedly unsure of the cause 
of the problem.
After a search of the campus area, 
however, a resident assistant found that the 
student had eaten one hit of acid. 
Presbyterian finally diagnosed and treated the 
student for ingestion of LSD that appeared to 
be laced with PCP.
The following Friday, another freshman 
male was found behaving violently and 
trying to break in a window in the 
Morewood Gardens lobby. Again, the 
student was hallucinating and out of control. 
He was taken to Presbyterian and treated for 
the same problem - LSD laced with a 
substance that was believed to be PCP.
The second male identified a third student 
who had the same reaction to the drug in the 
same time period. However, he was not 
discovered, and consequently not 
hospitalized.
The three incidents, although taking 
place a week apart, appear to have been 
related. All three students were reported to 
have taken blotter, a small slip of paper 
treated with LSD which is absorbed through 
the skin or tongue. This particular batch had 
an airplane printed on each slip. They 
bought the drug iq Schenley Park. None of 
the acid has been reported anywhere else in 
surrounding area. The three situations were 
all life-threatening - the greatest danger 
resulting from the suspected PCP.
These were the first LSD-related 
incidents to surface at Carnegie Mellon in 
the four years that Walter has been with the 
university. He reports that student reaction 
to the problem has been one of shock and 
surprise. Most students that he spoke to 
were unaware of acid usage on campus.
All three affected students were freshmen 
who had previous experiences with the drug 
in high school. This fact, and the general 
reaction by other students, led Walter to the 
hope that LSD usage on this campus is 
rather isolated. Nonetheless, Walter decided 
to distribute the memo to students as a 
continued on page 2
Larry Druffler
Noted Criminologist Named SUPA Dean
By MEG EISLER
Tartan Staffwriter
Dr.Alfred Blumstein, a nationally 
recognized authority on crime and the 
criminal justice system, was recently named 
dean of the School of Urban and Public 
Affairs. He succeeds Dr. Brian J. L. Berry, 
who was dean from 1981 to May 1986. Dr. 
Joel Tarr, of SUPA’s faculty, was the acting 
dean this summer until Dr. Blumstein’s 
appointment.
A member of SUPA's faculty since 1969, 
Dr. Blumstein is the J. Erik Jonsson 
Professor of Urban Systems and Operations 
Research and is also director of SUPA's 
Urban Systems Institute. President Cyert 
praised him as "an outstanding scholar, a 
distinguished member of the university's 
faculty, and a proven leader who will help 
make the school even greater than it is 
today". The School of Urban and Public 
Affairs is a graduate school for public 
management, whose programs emphasize the 
development of the technical skills needed 
for effective management in government.
Dr. Blumstein's research on the criminal 
justice system has been frequently quoted in 
national publications and has influenced 
criminal justice policy. In 1980, he 
published a study on the effects of the end of 
the post-war baby boom on the prison 
population, which is still an important 
reference for prison planners throughout the 
United States.
A member of the National
Academy of Sciences Committee on 
Research on Law Enforcement and the 
Administration of Justice, he has been its 
chairman, as well as the chairman of two of 
its Panels: one on Research on Deterrent and 
incaptivity Effects and another on 
Sentencing Research. He is currently 
chairman of its Research on Criminal 
Careers Panel.
He is chairman of the Pennsylvania 
Commission on Crime and Delinquency, 
which is the state criminal justice planning 
agency. Governor Dick Thornburgh has also 
recently appointed him to the Pennsylvania 
Commission on Sentencing.
Dr. Blumstein is currently president-elect 
of the Institute of Management Sciences. 
He is a former president of the Operations 
Research Society of America, and is a 
recipient of that society's 1985 Kimball 
Medal. He has also served on the President's 
Commission on Law Enforcement and the 
Adminstration of Justice, as the director of 
its Task Force on Science and Technology.
He received both his bachelor's degree in 
engineering physics and his Ph.D. in 
operations research from Cornell University.
By DON EGGERT
Tartan Staffer iter
In Mid-July, CMU's Department of 
Public Relations announced the resignation 
of John Manley from the position of 
Director of the Software Engineering 
Institute. CMU Provost Angel Jordan was 
named acting director and Larry E. Druffel, 
Vice President of the California software 
firm Rational Corporation, was hired as a 
senior management consultant to keep the 
transition smooth.
Last week Druffel was appointed full-time 
director of the SEI, effective September 15. 
Druffel , an initiator of the SEI idea, was 
formerly in charge of business development 
at Rational, a leader in the software 
engineering field. Previous to that, he held 
several computing posts in the Department 
of Defense.
About his appointment, Druffel said "The 
SEI has been chartered by Congress to 
accelerate the process of making emerging 
software technology practicable. I consider 
it a privilege to be given the opportunity to 
lead this effort." Jordan added that "Carnegie 
Mellon and Rational have worked closely [to 
decide how Druffel] could contribute to the 
advancement of software technology. We 
believe that larry's background and 
experience at Rational will ensure the SEI's 
success."
Former director Manley will continue to 
work with the SEI, helping to cement 
relations with industry. He has also accepted 
a faculty position in GSIA.
According to Manley and Jordan, the 
resignation did not take place on a totally 
negative note. The disagreements between 
the tw6 were of a "philosophical" nature on 
the management of the institute.
One area of concern was the development 
of new technology. While Manley felt that 
adequate technology was available, and that 
new developments should be released when 
continued on page 2
The Pittsburgh Symphony 
Orchestra named world- 
renowned conductor Loren 
Maazel to be its new Music 
Director. See Diversions.
The Tartan
Volume 81, Number 2 Carnegie Mellon University September 16,1986
Trek moves in lime. See page 5 for the complete story.
Cross Country's Meckley reaches a milestone. Details, page 19.
Bad Acid 
Hits CMU
New SEI 
Director
By ELISA SALASIN
Tartan StaffwriterNamed

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—The Tartan—September 16, 1986
WORLD NEWS
Daniloff Released
After 13 days in a Soviet jail on 
espionage charges. American reporter 
Nicholas Daniloff has been released to the 
custody of the ranking U.S. official in 
Moscow.
Daniloff was released in an 
agreement between the U.S. and Soviet 
Union that also turned Soviet U.N. 
employee Gennadiy Zakharov over to the 
Soviet ambassador in New York. Neither 
man is free to leave the country.
Secretary of State Shultz says the 
U.S. is still working to win Daniloffs full 
freedom. Shultz says the U.S. has enough 
evidence to convict Zakharov—but that the 
charges against Danifoff are false.
Cicippio Taken Hostage
No group has yet claimed 
responsibility for the latest kidnapping of an 
American in Beirut. The acting comptroller 
of the American University in Beirut, Joseph 
Cicippio, was grabbed by four men this 
morning outside his campus apartment. The 
Pennsylvania native was married to a Syrian- 
born woman—and had converted to Islam.
SEI Director
continued from page 1
probably "a little too biased toward the 
commercial and governmental side, and didn't 
pay enough attention to the academic and 
research side." A 21 year Air Force veteran 
with extensive business experience, he 
explained that the director must be able to 
satisfy industrial, academic, and 
governmental interests. Jordan agreed with 
_ Manley's explanation, stating "He was 
placing too much emphasis on building 
industrial connections too quickly... 
probably the relationship [with the DoD and 
SEI] could have been a little better." But, in 
tribute to Manley's work, he noted that 
"Manley did an outstanding job in building 
the organizational structure of the SEI." He 
added "It [the change in directors] is a 
reorientation, but nothing dramatic."
Among other accomplishments during 
his year-long term, Manley forged affiliate 
agreements with 21 universities, including 
Pitt and Penn State. Some are cooperating 
with the center in the development of a 
graduate-level software engineering 
curriculum.
All information compiled from the 
Pittsburgh Press, Pittsburgh 
Post-Gazette, and Pittsburgh Business Times- 
Journal.
Bad Acid Hits
continued from page 1
warning and a preventative measure.
If an LSD problem exists, Walter wants 
students to be aware of the possible 
consequences. He states in his memo: "Any 
student disregarding [the drug] policy will be 
dealt with quickly and harshly." Although 
the three students were not expelled, they are 
being dealt with through disciplinary action 
and rehabilitation.
However, Walter wants to make one 
point clear - any student caught selling any 
form of drug will be dealt with harshly. In 
fact, in an unrelated incident, a student was 
recently apprehended while selling about 38 
hits of acid on campus, and was immediately 
expelled.
Walter hopes that the distribution of his 
memo will help the campus community 
realize the dangers and consequences of drug 
usage, and that any LSD problem that may 
be present on campus will end.
Three men who know what it's like 
to be held hostage in Lebanon have issued a 
humanitarian plea for the release of the 
remaining American hostages. Lawrence 
Jenco, Jerry Levin and Benjamin Weir joined 
relatives of the captives in urging the 
Reagan administration to push harder for the 
release of the men. Their campaign will 
include distributing decals which read: 
"Remember our American Hostages."
A bomb went off in a department 
store cafeteria in Paris. It happened during 
the busy lunch-hour. Police say 40 people 
were hurt.
It was another furious day of trading 
on Wall Street. Stock prices have been 
gyrating so wildly many analysts say they 
aren't sure if the market is going through a 
few bad days—or something worse. With 
half a hour to go, the Dow was off more 
than 30 points.
The House has voted 
overwhelmingly to approve a package of 
economic sanctions against South Africa. 
This is the same version of a sanctions 
package approved by the Senate. The White 
House says President Reagan will likely 
veto the measure—but it appears there are 
enough votes on Capitol Hill to override the 
expected veto.
ALCOA Cutbacks
PITTSBURGH—The nation's
largest aluminum producer, Alcoa, says that 
40 percent of the primarilary aluminum 
production cutbacks it announced last 
December will affect plants in Texas and 
New York. The company said today that it 
will permanently shut down equipment 
capable of producing 105,000 metric tons of 
aluminum per year at its Rockdale, Texas 
plant and 39,000 tons at Massena, New 
York.
BEAVER FALLS—The Babcock 
and Wilcox company has been accused of 
dumping toxic metals and chemicals into the 
Beaver River and two tributaris in Beaver 
Falls. In a suit in Federal District Court, the 
Sierra Club is asking that the company be
ordered to stop the dumping and face fines if 
it refuses. The suit alleges that Babcock and 
Wilcox is dumping chromium, nickel, iron 
oil grease, zinc, lead and flouride. Company 
spokesman Phillip Miracle says the 
company is still reviewing the suit and has 
no comment.
UNIONTOWN—The Uniontown 
school board hs accused a high school 
science teacher of violating state law by 
expressing religious beliefs in class. At a 
meeting called to explain why the teacher 
was suspended, George Rhodes told his 
students he was "touched by God." Rhodes is 
a 23-year veteran of thè school district, said 
previously that he is scheduled to appear 
before a disciplinary hearing September 
22nd, where he could be fired.
HARRISBURG—A state
department of public welfare administrator 
says some doctors and pharmacists suspected 
of Medicaid fraud have remained on 
department payrolls for up to four years 
while investigations continue.
D.P.W. Deputy Secretary Gerald 
Radke said today the agency does not 
suspend doctors from the program while they 
are under investigation for fraud. He says he 
knows of some cases that have been open for 
up to four years and are still continuing. 
Radke was testifying before a House 
committee on Medicaid fraud and abuse.
Democrats Hold Pgh. Reception
By ALBRECHT POWELL
Tartan Production Editor
During a two part democratic fundraising and 
political campeign in Pittsburgh over the 
weekend, Senator Edward M. Kennedy, 
gubernatorial nominee Bob Casey, and Bob 
Edgar, U.S. Senate candidate, presented 
themselves to democrats in exchange for 
financial and voter support.
Mingling with guests at a $250 a ticket 
reception at the Pittsburgh Sheraton, Station 
Square, the three candidates seemed only 
interested in the important influential 
persons in attendance and seemed to care 
little for the individual Pennsylvanian.
This was also inherant in their 
presentations to the enthused crowd of 
democrats whereby they noted and thanked 
such persons as Doug Walgren and 
spokesman for the United Steelworkers for 
their attendance. However the link between 
the party, the candidates, and the average 
voter seemed lacking.
Senator Kennedy (D-Mass.) kicked off the 
event with his Boston twang, ruddy 
complexion, and determination for a winning 
team. The majority of his promotional 
speech was nothing more than democratic 
fluff, however he did make a powerful attack 
on U.S. Chief Justice nominee Rehnquist. 
He claimed that Rehnquist has, during his 
term of office, demonstrated extreme biases 
against blacks, women, and other minorities. 
Kennedy slammed Rehnquist earlier by 
charging that in the 60's, he personally 
challenged minority voters in Arizona as 
they were waiting to cast their ballots. "He
(Rehnquist) has a record that is absolutely 
inconsistent with the fundamental values of 
our society," Kennedy emphatically stated at 
the Sheraton. "Had Bob Edgar been a 
member of the Judiciary Committee, he 
would have been on my side. But not his 
opponent."
Concluding his speech with the optomism 
of expecting to "Call on him (Edgar) on 
election night, and call him senator...", 
Kennedy turned over the floor to the sharply 
dressed U.S. representative from Delawere 
county. Edgar, refusing to stand behind the 
podium because of his self-exclaimed 
shortness, "saw visions of the future for this 
state." He presented no specific platform, 
with the exception of; the importance of one 
vote, to replace the ultra-conservatives in 
Washington, and to work to change for 
future generations.
Gubernatorial candidate Bob Casey took the 
floor next and could "...feel a sweep in the 
air." Again, there was no platform 
presented, only that we need to "move into 
the future and everyone's going to move into 
the future with us." He thanked everybody 
for their support, both financially and 
enthusiastically, and could only offer that 
with this platform, "...you will have a friend 
in Pennsylvania and a job in Pennsylvania."
It seemed as if the political fundraising 
event was not geared toward politics, toward 
the betterment of Pennsylvanians or the 
U.S. It seemed to be only an event for 
exposure and monetary gain. The lack of 
political flavor, platforms, and issues 
presented quite a let-down for many in 
attendance.
Photo by Albrecht Powell 
Senator Kennedy speaks at reception
SAE Washes Windows
On Tuesday August 26, Sigma Alpha 
Epsilon held its annual "Window Wash" 
fundraiser for Children's Hospital in 
Oakland. In the window wash, brothers 
approach cars waiting for the traffic light to 
change at the Morewood-Forbes intersection 
and offer to wash windshields in exchange 
for donations. This year the fraternity 
raised $217. One brother who participated 
said that the window wash was a favorite 
activity of the fraternity becuse it is not only 
a "good time for everybody, but at the same 
time we can use our numbers to help 
others."
SAE plans to organize more fundraising 
activities this year. The fraternity also 
wishes to "extend its thanks to those who 
contributed their effort, money and patience 
for the cause."
Plioto by Albrecht Powell 
Candidate Bob Edgar accepts senatorial candidate Bob Casey's hand
SAE washes cars for charity

---------------------------------------------------

September 16, 1986—The Tartan—Page 3
Warner Hall 
gets Facelift
By KARL BARNHART
Tartan Staffwriter
Completed in 1966, Warner Hall is one 
of the newer buildings on campus. 
Nonetheless, it is currently the target of a 
massive refurbishing project: all 4700 square 
feet of Travertine marble that cover the four 
exterior columns are being replaced.
According to Thomas Murphy, director 
of design and construction, the original 
marble covering the northwestern comer 
column was discovered to be cracked and 
loosened from its anchors last fall. At this 
time, the other columns were investigated 
and found to be in similar, but slightly 
better condition. It was decided to remove 
and replace all of the marble before the slabs 
fell off.
The new marble, which arrived on 
campus last Friday, is to be installed in a 
two-step schedule. The side facing the cut 
will be finished by Homecoming and the 
remainder is expected to be completed by 
November 1. Originally, it was hoped that 
the project would be finished before the start 
of the semester, but since the marble was 
purchased from a quarry in Italy the schedule 
was pushed back.
None of the old marble could be 
salvaged. The original damage, caused by 
the galvanized anchors' oxidation, corrosion, 
and subsequent expansion, was too 
extensive.
With the new marble comes a new 
s^stemjorattachment^j^ 
vlinutes of the Student Senate, 
September 9, 1986
Meeting called to order 7:10pm.
’resent: Ayre, Cohen, Flynn, Frank,
-riedland, Giles, Greenberg A, Hausman, 
ierron, Jagerski, Kaplan, Kombrek, Larson, 
.evy, Lonsky, McDonnell, Mukherjee, 
5amaik, Robitshek, Rocher, Scanlon, 
Shipley, Stachura, Staresinic.
Ex-officio members:Dean Cox, Dean 
Walter, Denburg, Chu, Jones.
Absent: Bollinger. Ex-officio members:
3eLeon
Vudience Participation: none.
)ean Walter: no report
)ean Cox: Impure LSD has been found on 
:ampus. Please be aware and take care.
Donna Morosky, head of the Health 
Awareness Council is encouraging students
o get involved with their own health and 
lealth programs.
Hie council, of which students are 
mcouraged to be members will accomplish 
he following tasks:
Evaluate campus health/environmental
leeds.
^ublish a wellness newsletter (write & edit)
Establish overall philosophy for the Health 
Wareness Councel
dentify campus, city resources (speakers, 
vriters, contributors)
Create new programs
’romote on going programs
f your at all interested, call Donna at X2075
’resident: Jim Denburg Some of the 
iccomplishments of the Retail Stores 
Committee are:
Raising the student discount on books from 
)% to 10%.
SDC: Leanne Chu no report.
IFC: Ten Jones Greek Sing will be March 
13, Carnegie Music Hall.
Ron Pampana is the new greek advisor.
There will be a blood drive in October.
Chairman: Peter Cohen Thanks - Eric, 
Tamal, Nadine, Leslie for making die retreat 
a success.
Erica Levy was accepted by acclamation as a 
Senator at Large.
The Executive Committee will go over the 
suggestions from the retreat at their next 
meeting.
Office hours will start Monday.
Public Relations: Thank you to
everyone who attended the Happy Hour and 
Retreat
Any suggestions on how to improve the 
Happy Hour - tell us.
We're getting a full page ad in the C Book. 
If anyone has any ideas for a logo or slogan, 
give it to Senator Cohen.
Old Business: Amendments to the
Constitution.
Motion to remove Article Vlll, Section 2. 
Passed. Motion states :Change "activity or 
legislation" to "Student Senate approved 
activity or bill." Passed.
Article Vlll Section 2A failed to be removed 
from the table.
Section 4B was removed from the table an< 
subsequently tabled after debate.
Motion of the minutes removed from th< 
table and votea on. Themotion states: Nc 
one has the right to alter or omit anythin[ 
from
the minutes of the Student Senate meeting 
unless the information contained within i; 
incorrect. In this extreme case, that is, only 
if what was placed in the minutes did no 
take place in the Senate meeting, a three 
fourths vote of the Student Senate can omi 
the particular piece of misinformation
New Business: We need some sort o 
method of approving off campus housing fo 
students.
Announcements: AA mtg is Mon. a 
4:30
Senator Flynn: Can we have office hours 
outside? Yes.
Treasurer: Fred DeLeon no report.
Academic Affairs: Academic affairs is 
starting their ARP (Academic Response 
Program). This program will respond to the 
students directly.
Eric Rocher is the new vice-chair of AA.
Senator Robitshek: Why did a bunch of 
physics TAs leave school last year? 
Audience: The students felt that the TA 
responsibilities were being unjustly divided 
between native
Article Vlll Section 2B removed from the 
table and voted on. Motion states: A 
petition signed by 100 activities fee paying 
students wil give to the sponsors and signers 
of such petition the privleges and 
responsibilities of a non-funded recognized 
student organization. These privilege? and 
responsibilities will extend for a period of 
two consecutive weeks, beginning on the 
date designated by the petitioners. This date 
must be neither less than one week nor more 
than six weeks after the submission of the 
petition. Motion failed.
Section 2 under Recognition of Student 
Organizations was removed from the table
PR mtg. is at 7pm in the Senate office.
F&R mtg 12:30 Sunday.
Meeting Adjourned 9:17pm.
Senate meetings take place every Tuesday 
night at 7:00 PM in the Wherrett Room 
They are open to the entire university 
community.
For a feature story about Student Senati 
Chairman Peter Cohen and Studen 
Government President Jim Denburg. see th< 
features section.
AEPi Recognized
On Wednesday September 10, the 
Inter-Fraternity Council 
officially recognized Alpha Epsilon Pi. The 
two-year old chapter of the national fraternity 
is now allowed to participate in campus 
Greek
activities, such as Greek Sing, and vote at 
IFC meetings. AEPi
president Brett Molotsky is exceedingly 
happy about the decision, but aware that 
they "still have a way to go. Both us and 
Sigma Tau Gamma, as unhoused fraternities, 
still have to fight for recognition from the 
University itself."
AEPi, with 99 chapters and colonies 
nationally, is considered one of the fastest 
growing fraternities in the country. CMU's 
chapter has nearly 30 active brothers and 
alumni.
Grad School Conference
Warner Hall Constuction
twist anchors that were used before, the new 
marble will be drilled at both ends and 
fastened with stainless steel rods embedded in 
the concrete of the columns. This 
practically guarantees against the present
Getting better publicity for buying/selling 
used books.
Getting Validine in retail stores.
The Enthusiasm Committee is organizing a 
tailgate party and is trying to get students 
excited about their school.
Senator Scanlon: Are you looking into the 
prices of Entropy/Co-op?
President Denburg: They are barely breaking 
even because they don't have any stock 
space.
Photo by Olve Peersen
The project, which cost more that 
$200,000, is purely aesthetic; Warner Hall 
suffered no structural damage. The external 
1 1/2 inches of marble simply loosened 
The new marble is basically the same as 
the old, except for a slight variation in color.
between native andstudents and foreign 
students.
Campus Affairs: 80% of the suggestions 
from the happy hour come under the CA 
relm.
Funding & Recognition: Senator
Mukerjee: Motion to allocate $40.00 to 
Danceline to buy gloves. Passed.
Motion to allocate $600.00 to Explorers 
Club to buy a windsurf board. Motion 
passed with 3 abstentions.
Tau Beta Pi, the engineering honor 
society, will hold a conference on grad 
school opportunities Wednesday, September 
17 at 7 p.m. in the Wherrett Room. 
Associate Director of Career Development 
Karen Litzinger and Head of Civil 
Engineering Dr. Paul Christiano are the 
featured speakers, as well as professors from 
various engineering departments.
The following day, Thursday, 
representatives from colleges including Case 
Western, Lehigh, Ohio U., and U. of 
Virginia will be in the ballroom from 10 
a.m. to 4:30 p.m. to answer questions about 
their graduate programs. Also available will 
be information about the GRE and GMAT.
and voted on. The motion states: Add th< 
words "sexual orientation" between th< 
words "sex" and "or." Motion passed.
Section 4A2c under Recognition wa: 
removed from the table and voted on 
Motion states: Sponsor speakers to addres: 
their organization and/or the campu: 
community. Motion failed
Section 4A2d under Recognition wa; 
removed from the table and voted on 
Motion states: Leaflet or petition oi 
campus. Motion passed.
Sw - ' ' ¦

---------------------------------------------------

HNAUYA 
FRB FLIGHT PUN JUST FOR SIWENIS. 
YOU WORT GET A 
BREAK UKE1MS ONCE YOU'RE OUT IN 
THE REALWORLDl
INTRODUCING COLLEGIATE FLIGHTBANK# FROM Or the grand prize, for the number one student referral
CONTINENTAL AND NEW YORK AIR. champion in the nation: a Porsche and one year of unlimited
If you’re a full-time student at an accredited college or uni- coach air travel, 
versity you can join our Collegiate FlightBank!” \ou’ll receive howdo you get to be the referral champion. Just sign
a memoership cand and number that will allow you to get up as many friends as possible, and makesure your roem r- 
10% off Continental and New York Air’s already low fares. In shlP number 18 apP^ion.In ^obe etaMefcr
addition, you’ll get a one-time certificate good for $25 offany *4 *** S™8 must m
domestic roundtrip flight. Plus, you’ll be aLle to earn trips to vi segments on C^mental a- ew
places like Florida, Denver, Los Angeles, even London and Alr ^ ™ ^ ® credit or the
the South Pacific. Because every time you fly you’ll earn mile- enrollment, you 11 also get 500 bonus miles, 
age tosraids a free trip. And if you sign up now you’ll also S° cut the coupon, and send it in now. Be sure to include
receive 3 free issues of BusinessWeek Careers magazine. yC)ur cun|ii ^ time stl%1r? P y..-................-.......... cost you $10 for one year ($15 after 12/31/86) and $40 for four
years ($60 after 12/31/86). 'four membership kit, including 
referral forms, will arrive in 3 to 4 weeks. If you have a credit 
card, you can call us at 1-800-255-4321 and enroll even faster. 
Now more than ever it pays to stay in school.
SIGN ME UP NOW (Pkase print .«¦ type) ? 1 Year ($10) ? 2 Ykrars ($20) ? 5 Years ($K>) ? 4 Year« ($40) i
Mast he submitted K 12/M/86.
Name___________________________________________——_____Date of Birth-----------------------------
College----------------------------------------------------Address--------------------------------------------------------------------
Ir«roducing Collegiate FlightBank“ Earn free trips to New York, San FraiKisco, Boston, Washing­
ton, D.C., Miami. Chicago, cr Denver. Plus, Australia, Honolulu, London, and Mexico. All told, 
74 cities worldwide.
SIGN UP YOUR FRIENDS AND EARN A PORSCHE.
But what’s more, for the 10 students on every campus who 
enroll the most active student flyers from their college there 
are some great rewards: 1 free trip wherever Continental or
Send this coupon to: Collegiate FlightBank 
RO. Box 297847
___________ Houston, TX 77297 7&\
New YorikAir flies in the mainland U.S., Mexico or Canada. --------1
________________________________________________________________________________Zip-
Permanent Address------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Zip_
Full time student ID #_--------------------------------------------------Year of Graduation---------------
$________ ? Check/Money Order Enclosed PLEASE DON’T SEND CASH
? American Express ? Visa ? MasteiGud ? Diner’s Club
Account Number____________________________________________________Expiration Date----------------
Signature X----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------—------------------
FOR MEMBERSHIP APPLICANTS UNDER THE AGE OF 18: The undersigned is the parent/ 
guardian of the membership applicant named hereon, and I consent to his/her participation in the 
Collegiate RightBank program.
Signature X------------------------------------------------------—---------------------------------------------------------------------
# CONTINENTAL (3 NEW YORK AIR
Some blackout periods apply for discount trawl and reward redemptkn. Complete terms and cxndinons <Vprogram will accompany membership kit. Certain resmctKns apply. Current full time student status required kw each war of membership. To earn any prize a minimum of 12 referrals is required. All referral award winners will be announced by 8/1/87.10% discount applies ti > mainland U.S. travel mly. © 1986 Gmental Air Lines, Inc. 
Students must be between ages 16 and 25. Registration and taxes are the responsibility of the award recipient.

---------------------------------------------------

Trek Travels in Time
By ALBRECHT POWELL
Tartan Production Manager
Captain's Log Stardate 3069.9. On a 
routine mission to the Eigenrac galaxy to 
drop off some Quadriticalie to its 4,000 
person population, the U.S.S. Enterprise 
suddenly found itself in the midst of an 
incredible time warp that was hurdling 
the ship and its crew back through the 
depths of deep space through a once- 
thought non-existent spatial time dilation 
continuum.
"Captain, I can't hold 'er much longer 
on this course," ai* perspiring Scotty 
exclaimed. The ship was rocking 
horrendously from side to side, and all 
aboard were holding on for their lives. 
"Mr. Sulu, Warp Factor 10 - Get us back 
to the Eigenrac galaxy," the cool Kirk 
commented from the bridge. "She's 
breaking up, Captain. We've lost 
all control of the ship, sir. The reactor is 
operating at a factor of 1000 beyond 
critical. I don't know why we're not all 
dead yet," Scotty was screaming through 
the cries of metal straining and 
tensioning against before-unknown 
forces.
"We're spiraling backward through a 
black vortex in the nth dimension that 
could only be defined by the partial 
integral over the summation taken to the 
warp factor, divided by the bit-mapping 
speed of the Enterprise computer. This, 
obviously cannot be generated on a bi­
polar plane," Spock commented. "Get to 
the point. What does all 
that mean? We have people screaming 
here, forces plastering people to their 
consoles, unable to move, unable to 
rationalize. A reactor that should have 
killed us, maybe we're all dead now, I -1 - 
can't
think straight..my mind, why, are you 
here? are we us? why aren’t you note 
my here where you were then if you 
couldn't not be us are we today? 
Spock...help...me," a feeble Kirk 
mentioned.
"Captain, a most fascinating event is 
happening here. We seem to have totally 
lost control of the ship, the computers 
have shut down, the engines are 
operating at illogical proportions. Just 
Fascinating,"
Spock commented, his left ear twitching 
with thought. "It appears to me, that we 
are going back in time to a place and date 
that is totally uncontrollable to us." 
Kirk replied sternly and 
emphatically, "I know, I know. At first 
I would have thought it a Klingon trick, 
but this is a much more powerful force 
than the Klingon empire could ever 
dream up."
"But wait, Captain, the clocks are 
returning to their normal state. We’ve 
stopped going back in time," cried Mr. 
Sulu. "Scotty to the Bridge." "Go 
ahead," "Captain, the reactors 'ave 
returned to normal operating conditions" 
"Yes, Sir," Spock calmly commented, "It 
would seem as if we have come through 
the time/space continuum relatively 
unharmed. Fascinating." "Yes, but what 
of the 4,000 people back on the Eigenrac 
colony. We were not able to drop off the 
Quadrititicalie. Without the high yield 
grain, those people will 
starve! They have been threatened with 
drought for several weeks and with out 
the grain, they may die." "True, 
Captain, a logical assumption, however 
there are more pressing matters at hand. 
Moreover where we currently are, when 
we are, how we got here, and how to get 
back. I am having the ships computers 
work on the problem now," Spock stated 
logically.
"It would appear that we have arrived 
approximately 72 light years, 7 1/2 
hours earlier than we left Eigenrac. The 
time now is 6:00 PM, on what would be 
Eigenrac time if we knew where it was. 
There is too much static and interference
And so goes the five year mission of 
the star ship enterprise, sent back 72
Might years and 7 1/2 hours to theI
to Vulcan standards and your warp speed 
exceeds the quantifible integral of 10, 
you may have surmised that the all time 
favorite show of most college students, 
Star Trek, has moved, and moved hard. 
A favorite of the college crowd at 1:30 
am, Star Trek has always been a nice 
relaxing break from studying before more 
studying, pizza breaks, morning jogs, or 
occasionally sleep. But as of Captains 
Log, Stardate 15 September.6, Star Trek 
will be airing at 6:00 pm.
To most college students, this is an 
utterly useless time. People either eat 
dinner at 6, are in class, or want to watch 
the latest news of Mrs. Smiths new 
spaghetti recepie or the newest U.S. 
attack on Lybia. For a true Treckie, 
however, this problem may be overcome 
and one could spare the time to catch the 
weekly show.
This brings up the major 
underlying problem with 
the move: "It took us out 
of their orbit," Kirk.
"Beam us up, Scotty," "To 
them, we’re dead," Bones.
The move took the show 
from channel 11 to channel 
22 (note, a warp factored 2 
move). Seemingly not a 
travesty, but have YOU 
ever tried getting channel 22 
on your TV in your dorm 
without a
500 megawave 80 foot 
towering antenna on your 
roof (which is illegal 
according to Dean Walters)?
"It Just Can't Be Done!!,"
Exclaimed 3 out of four 
students interviewed on 
campus, (ed note: The
fourth wouldn't make any 
oral statements without a 
written contract - you 
know, the legal eagle 
type...)
Students all over campus 
are in an uproar. One 
student commented that," I
think it's atrocious that channel 11 does 
not care about the welfare of the 
collegiate community in this great city 
of ours. My fellow friends at other 
institutes of higher learning have not 
been deprived of this basic human right. 
I feel that my academic potentials have 
been severely stunted by this obvious 
capitalistic maneuver on the part of the 
entire NBC network"
Another stated that "Like, hey man, 
like, what's up here? Man, this sucks..."
The future of Carnegie Mellon's late 
night trekkies seems bleak, at best. 
From unofficial rumors, Star Trek will 
probably not resume airing at this 
favored time, at least for some time now.
The best that The Tartan can offer now, 
is, "Trekkies Unite" and Tell NBC to 
"Beam them back, make the logical 
choice."
A TYPICAL NE1MO*K. CLASS-M f. 
FASCIAJATiKKit ZLLO()lCAL%lout f*SC,AjA ^I r
Senat^Hammers Problems
By LISA McANNANY
Tartan Editor in Chief
In recent semesters, many changes have 
been made at Carnegie Mellon. Scotland 
Yard, the campus pub, was built; a $200 
million capital campaign was kicked off; 
recently, the student health center was 
reorganized and still slated for the future 
are plans for a general facelift on campus, 
commonly known as "the master plan." 
In the midst of these changes, the role of 
Student Government becomes 
increasingly important to ensure that 
student needs and interests are met. 
Currently at the head of Student 
Government are Jim Denburg, President 
of Student Government and Peter Cohen, 
Chairman of Student Senate. Each of 
these students performs a distinct and 
vital role in campus affairs.
The distinction between the Senate 
Chairman and Student Government 
President is an important one, though 
not particularly obvious. "The major 
difference between the President and
Senate is they are two different 
branches," says Denburg. "The President 
can veto any vote of Senate and the 
Senate can impeach the President. This is 
a check and balance system to make sure 
the decisions of these two groups are in 
the best interest of students." the Senate 
Chairman is the principal liason between 
Senate and the administration, and Ire 
organizes and runs Senate's internal 
operations.
The main functions of Student Senate 
on campus include representing the 
Senate’s and students' viewpoints to the 
administration and faculty, taking action 
when Senate feels that the well-being of 
the students is in jeopardy, and managing 
the activities fee. Senate oversees the 
activities fee by allocating money to 
clubs which are funded by Student 
Senate. Senate also recognizes clubs, so 
that they are officially part of the campus 
community.
Both Denburg and Cohen have a clear 
set of goals for their terms in office. 
Cohen's goals include improving
Senate's standings vis-a-vis the 
administration, improving Senate’s 
standing on campus with the students, 
making Senate more visible and ensuring 
that Senate functions well internally. 
"We will... respond directly to any and 
all student suggestions and complaints. 
When a student has a complaint we will 
follow up our actions by informing the 
student what was done," says the 
Chariman..
Denburg’s goals include defending 
student's rights and improving student 
life. "I am making sure that 
administrative desicions have student 
input. It is my duty as well as right to 
challenge decisions that are not in the 
best interest of the students," says 
Denburg. He adds, "There is one thing 
that has always bothered me here: the 
lack of enthusiasm on campus. We all 
need to come together to change this." A 
specific issue which Denburg plans to 
address this semester is the number of 
reading days. "I am not interested in 
extending the school year. I would rather
see less days of class, where the 
eliminated class days were replaced by 
reading days. Since Carnegie Mellon 
already has more than average the number 
of class days and less thean average the 
number of reading days, we aren't really 
asking too much."
Both leaders are optimistic about their 
abilities to meet these goals. Cohen 
says, "Like most things, these goals can 
not be obtained overnight. Senate is 
moving upward, and I hope that by 
continuing this trend, tangible results 
will occur in less than a year."
Jim Denburg is a senior in Industrial 
Management. He can be reached at 
x5482. Peter Cohen is a second year 
graduate student in the SUPA 3-1-1 
masters program. His phone number is 
441-9826. He also holds office hours in 
front of Doherty Hall each week.
Student Senate meetings take place 
every Tuesday evening at 7PM in the 
Wherrett Room in Skibo. Everyone is 
welcome to attend. The phone number 
for the Student Senate office is x2115.

---------------------------------------------------

see in ii
Starship look oli. or removing their 
jackets when their "pods’’ got overheated.
I lie audience couldn’t
help hut laugh. ¡1 a
bit nervously.
because we knew it T
was all in their heads. ^
I heir responses were ^
more com incing than
am actors because
Mapes description
was their realit \.
Between 
experiences. Mapes
would tell the crew to n
sleep while he |
explained each stop to M
the audience. 7 ¦
I:\er\one marveled at 4 H
the wa\ lie could just
sa\ sleep and the
person would slump
back into that relaxed _
state. The people
were not in trances:'
thc\ were just \er\
keen to Ma|\'s
suggestions, lie told them that he had a 
magic powder that would simulate an\ 
high thc\ liked. When the whole group
was plastered, stoned, or laujJiiiiiL
He also said that he couldn't hear Mapes 
realK clearly, and had no idea that
audience members 
were shouting out 
tha lie should use 
the water to put 
out" the mone\. lie 
also didn't notice the
I artan
photogi apher's 
I'lashcube when it 
caught him at the 
height of !lustration. 
Mapes reassured the 
audience that the 
student would not 
ha\e that fear of 
mone\ alter he was 
woken up. Now
mone\ 188 the floor 
will onl\ make Marc 
smile at the 
recollection.
Later in the show, 
someone asked
Mapes whether he 
had total control over the students' 
reality lie replied emphatically almost 
impishl). "()h. \ es."
Still, for James Manes.' InPiiosis is a
Students Rate
Mapes
By AMANDA COHEN
Tartan Staffwriter
The fact that ABCoffeehouse featured 
James J. Mapes implied that his display 
of hypnosis as a "Journey into the 
Imagination" was merely entertainment. 
In truth, it was more a highly 
enlightening lecture, complete with 
intense, involved, human illustrations. 
Mapes used hypnosis to demonstrate the 
powers we already had.
"Imagination is more important than 
knowledge," Mapes began, quoting 
Einstein. "I believe the most powerful 
demonstration I can give» you is 
unfortunately throught the vehicle of 
hypnosis." Unfortunately? The word 
"hypnosis" does have negative 
connotations, most commonly that one 
involving the gold watch on the chain. 
But Mapes used no such sparklies, and 
his appearance was far from evil.
He explained that hypnosis is basically 
a path to a higher mental plane, and that 
for every state of existence, there is a 
potentially higher one, and a higher one 
after that, and so on ad infinitum, or to 
Nirvana, or whatever highest state the 
individual can imagine. Hypnosis is 
only a state of belief, and in that respect, 
Mapes explained, we have all been 
hypnotized thousands of times, usually 
by our own choice and suggestion. "It's 
easy to get caught up in the flurry of 
phenomema about hypnosis when it 
really isn't what people think it is. What 
it is is something that happens all the 
time, in every minute of 
communications; all the time. Only it's 
so subtle how would you know?"
Mapes said that there are six stages of 
hypnosis, the deepest being the 
sonambular stage. If that word sounds 
familiar it's because it's also a term used 
for sleepwalking, where the individual 
functions "normally" in the physical 
sense, but hears, sees, feels and 
experiences a different reality. Mapes led 
students, depending on the extent of 
their response to hypnotic suggestion, 
through a series of different realities. 
Mapes first tested the audience by biting 
a lemon and asking how many people 
actually felt or tasted a lemon. He then 
asked everyone to visualize a little jelly 
pellet which, when squished between 
clasped hands, became a glue sticking the 
hands together. Anyone who couldn't 
pull their hands apart was called up 
onstage, and a group of about 50 students 
had to have their hands unclasped by the
Cuts S14-$16
Mon.-Fri. 9-9 
Sat. 9-5
Open Sunday 12 - 5
Lewis’
813 S. Aiken Avenue • Shadyside 
682-4063
You're number one with 
National! You can rent a car if 
you're 18 or older, have a valid 
driver's license, current student 
I D. and a cash deposit. Stop by 
and fill out a short cash qualifi­
cation form at least 24-hours in 
advance.
You pay for gas used and return 
car to renting location. Most 
major credit cards accepted.
Non-dtscountable rate applies to Chevy Chevette or similar-size car and is subject to change without notice. Rates slightly lower for drivers over 25. Specific cars subject to availability. Certain daily minimums apply. Weekend rate available from noon Thursday to Monday. Call for details.
^ Æ iX PER DAY mm JL WEEKENDS 
100 miles per day included. 
Additional mileage 20< per mile.
// National Car Rental.
Carnegie-Mellon deserves National attention.®
261-5500 I 434 Boulevard of the Allies 
682-1444 I 4621 Forbes Avenue (Oakland)
Mesmerizes Many
with hypnosis, Mapes earned degrees in 
theatre and psychology, and worked in 
various films, soap operas, and 
commercials. At the time he weighed 
260 pounds. How did he achieve the 
average, if not well built stature he has 
now? Hypnosis.
After the lecture/demonstration, the 
educational experience became a sort of 
medicine show as Mapes sold his self- 
help recordings and distributed 
applications for his hypnosis workshops. 
It was obvious from the response that his 
illustration of the students' imaginations 
had convinced almost everyone in the 
ballroom of the validity of hypnosis.
Had the lecture been a gameshow, its 
"contestants" would not have left 
emptyhanded. Mapes' models did not 
leave emptyheaded. Before he woke them 
up, he told all of the people onstage that 
the word "study" would no longer have a 
negative connotation. Concentration and 
retention would be less of a task, and 
they would have a great night's sleep and 
a wonderful semester. Most of the 
audience seemed a bit jealous of those 
students for their post-hypnotic gifts. 
The 20 students were allowed to recall 
everything that had taken place "in the 
spirit that it was intended: good, clean, 
fun." Mapes only gave them two 
instructions which they were not to 
recall. First, if they ever see him give a 
lecture any time in the future, when he 
bites into a lemon, they will feel the 
need to walk up on stage and go to sleep 
in one of the chairs. Second, as soon as 
they hear him say "Thank you, and 
Goodnight Ladies and Gentlemen," they 
would have to jump up and yell "I love 
you!!!" The most remarkable part was 
that they did just that, and didn't recall 
being instructed to do so until just after 
they had yelled it.
Few will deny that what they saw 
Saturday night was a fantastic expedition 
into the human mind. It was also a well- 
constructed, well-timed work of 
demonstration, explanation, and 
education. Mapes' lecture provided 
tremendous insight into brain power, and 
provided a necessary awareness of the 
potential strength of the mind. And at 
least 20 students got a great night's
hypnotist. Then Mapes continued to 
bring them into more and more relaxed 
states, easing them into chairs, and 
eliminating some students in the process.
When he had 20 students in a hypnotic 
sleep in chairs on the stage, he informed 
them and us that they were on the 
Starship Quantum. Contiuing with 
appropriate sound and lighting effects, he 
brought the "crew" into perceived states 
of pressure, weightlessness, heat, and 
cold, depending on where the Quantum 
took them. Most people responded 
visibly to the stimulus, shaking as the
hysterically, he explained that he had just 
helped them create their own biological 
change without chemical stimulus. By 
watching their reaction to the "powder," 
he could tell what they were into. At 
one point, he instructed a few people to 
forget certain facts. One girl counted "1- 
2-3-4-5-8-9-10..." and then puzzled over 
the remaining fingers. Everyone else 
onstage laughed, oblivious to what 
Mapes had told them to forget. "You
think that's funny? Your hand is stuck 
to his knee!" And there are literally no 
words to describe the silence when Josh 
Rubin forgot his name.
Another student, Marc Shannon, 
couldn't lift a thousand-pound $1 bill, 
and then couldn't even touch a pile of 
money on the floor, because Mapes kept 
reminding him that it was burning hot. 
Shannon said afterwards that he felt rather 
frustrated at not being able to get the 
money, but he had no control. "I didn't 
really feel the heat," he said, "but when 
he said it was hot, I knew it was hot."
science, not a stage craft. He has 
founded hypnosis therapy centers and 
produced many self-hypnosis tapes on 
subjects such as how to quit smoking, 
lose weight, study harder, etc. Mapes is 
currently involved with research regarding 
the relationship between thoughts and the 
immune system, as well as pain 
reduction, cancer work, and age 
regression, which he demonstrated near 
the end of the show. Before his work
We feature GM cars like this Chevy Chevette.

---------------------------------------------------

Sexy Bodies on Display
Ballroom, Carnegie Mellon- Last 
April 24th, the CMU Weight Club 
and Caber Club hosted the 4h 
Annual Pittsburgh Collegiate 
Bodybuilding event in the Skibo 
Ballroom. The event occurred too 
late in the school year to be 
covered in the Tartan last Spring 
semester issue abut was such a 
success that it seems only proper 
to cover the event which was the 
first of its kind at CMU in the first 
issue of the Fall semester Tartan.
The event was open to all full 
time students in the general 
Pittsburgh area, graduate and 
undergraduate, and even attracted 
contestants from as far away as 
Slippery Rock University. Weeks 
before the event, there was a 
nutrition seminar held at the Caber 
Club during late hours to go over 
important nutritional laws with 
some of the contestants to make an 
effort in guiding the participants 
into healthy habits before the event 
and in future training.
The competition itself brought 
defeaning cheers as each contestant 
, armed with his or her own 
rooting section, filled the 
Ballroom's maximum seating 
capacity. In fact, after some people 
paid for a standing view , Dave 
Corcoran, who organized ticket 
sales, had to turn people away 
from the event for lack of a larger 
seating capacity. "The cheers 
caught the attention of everyone 
who walked by. People would 
stand at the door trying to see what 
was going on inside. I got a kick 
out of it because before the event 
we had no idea how many people 
would show up," said Dave.
This was not a passive crowd and
this was not a passive show. The 
action never stopped. After all the 
contestants greeted the crowd 
together, the women's competition 
began. The women went one by 
one, before the crowd, showed 
mandatory poses to the judges and 
then performed a 90 second or less 
routine to music. Paula Ballog 
from Point Park College won the 
best performance category for 
women. Among the women, the 
overall rankings finished with 
Annita Lindermeir (Pitt) first, 
Paula Ballog (Point Park) second, 
Amy Peterman (Graduate from 
CMU '85 and graduate student at 
Pitt) third, Tracy Klimashko (Pitt) 
fourth and Carla Abrasheff (Point 
Park) fifth. Annita Lindermeir, a 
graduate student from Pitt also 
won the most muscular category 
for women. After each female 
contestant finished her routine they 
all appeared together before the 
judges for final comparisons 
against each other.
The men followed in similar suit. 
Lionel Young (CMU) won the best 
performance category for men. 
Scott Yeckinevich (Slippery Rock) 
won the most muscular category. 
Overall, the rankings were Scott 
Yeckinevich (Slippery Rock) first, 
Lionel Young (CMU) second, Joe 
Askin (Pitt) third, Ron Daubel 
(CMU) fourth, and Uday Patnaik 
(CMU) fifth. "Everyone who went 
up there tonight was a winner," 
said co-director of the event, Joe 
Calon.
In between the female and male 
competitions, the Health Works 
Dancers performed before the 
crowd. After the men's 
competition, the Exersize Co...
third place finishers in the Crystal 
Light National Aerobic Dance 
Competition, performed a routine 
while the judges tallied the 
contestants’ scores. In addition to 
the dance routines, special 
appearances were made by guest 
poser John Pappas (winner of 5 
events in 1985 and 2 in 1986 at the 
time of the event) and the Steelers' 
offensive tackle, Pete Rostosky, 
who handed out the awards to the 
top women finishers.
The weight Club has announed 
that the proceeds of the event will 
be sent to the Special Olympics 
this Fall. New president, Charlie 
Reinhard, who co-directed the
event with Joe Calon says that his 
club will be hosting a powerlifting 
competition at CMU on Nov. 21, 
1986. Joe Calon, manager of 
Caber Club and advisor to the 
Weight Club will be co-directing 
the event with Reinhard. Asked to 
comment on the event, Reinhard 
said, "I'd like to thank all of the 
organizations and all of the people 
who had a hand in organizing this 
event and making it happen. I'd 
like to thank the participants, 
especially those from the Weight 
Club, the audience and everyone 
else on our team. I'd especially 
like to thank my buddy, Joe 
Calon. He's sort of the team 
captain right now."
How five minutes can
chan;
move
ge the way y< 
mroush colk
In five minutes you could 
change the course of History. And any 
other subject you may be studying.
Just take part in a demonstration 
of the Macintosh” personal computer 
from Apple®
You’ll see how Macintosh can 
help you work better, faster and, 
perhaps best of all, smarter.
You’ll also qualify to win aTrek® 
12-speed touring bike. And you’ll walk 
away with a free bicycle cap.
Macintosh and aTrek bike.
Both will do more than help you 
get ahead. Both will take you 
anywhere you want to go.
OU
ugh college.
CMU
Computer Store
Everyone’s talking 
about Shadyside 
Commons — the 
4-star luxury ren­
tals close to the best shops, 
restaurants, parks and galler­
ies in town!
Each charming, spacious 
apartment features lofty ceil­
ings and exposed brick walls & 
beams. Gourmet kitchens with 
microwaves. And individual 
washers and dryers. There’s 
an open-air courtyard and free 
parking, too. Gome visit Pitts­
burgh’s rising new star today!
401 Amberson Ave., Pittsburgh • 683-9101 
Sales office and furnished models open 
Mon.-Fri. 10-6, Sat. & Sun. 12-5. Studio,
1 & 2 bedroom apartments from $540/mo. 
Includes FREK PARKING!
Developed and Managed
by Historic Landmarks
for Living, m—m

---------------------------------------------------

The President's Distinguished Lecture Series Presents
Fred Friendly
The Leading Authority on the Social 
Responsibility of the Major Business, 
Political and Media Institutions of Our 
Constitutional Democracy.
"Journalism on the 200th Anniversary of the Constitution" 
4:30 p.m. Wednesday, September 17,1986 
Skibo Ballroom 
Carnegie Mellon University
Fred Friendly is the Edward R. Murrow Professor Emeritus of 
Broadcast Journalism at the Columbia University Graduate School 
of Journalism and Director of the Media and Society Seminars. An 
expert on broadcast Journalism, Friendly is the former President of 
CBS NEWS and the originator of the one-anchor evening news 
format. He produced "See It Now" featuring Edward R. Murrow and 
was both originator and executive producer of "CBS Reports."
Friendly examines the dividing line between personal conscience 
and professional ethics. He created a series of conferences 
designed to explore areas of conflict, such as "Business and 
Media," "Investigative Reporting," "Medical Ethics," "Libel," and 
"The Constitution: That Delicate Balance." His most recent series 
"Managing our Miracles: Health Care in America" will premiere 
September 30th over the Public Broadcast Service (PBS).
Friendly received an honorary degree of Doctor of Humane Letters 
from Carnegie Mellon University this past May.

---------------------------------------------------

My
WKSSSt
Even today, there are still a few students 
who don’t have an HP calculator.
'¦» £$• & *£¦ ?" X &»
. ,.,. /«¦. * ¦:*. m • .i. £ : - ' :'¦ -v>\' - '& ,/ \ '¦<¦:¦: >fs> w\\ i, >fv :^:\ ^.;W?
><¦:•;•:•< oW. :&&*>¥>: <+ i&f >&: x/»‘>
•. +£\V' ••» ?«'# • <*'»' v .¦ ..? t.*>»»»«« vcv*• ¦»¦:•<•:•>.v/*: v>. . .•:?. ><«.••,%. • ;\i>.v:«xv-:?«r. .-./<^.v,y<<wv •••:• ::*:<wh>; Y^r-S^'£'••$> Vnv^ y& '-t' ¦ •' •• '< <&¦: ¡or 4 '<r* •:<•:<-.' > <*•:> vo^^iy v *<^> y# ¦?>. *.':>> %*:& v •! ¿4» $K • :•< •:• ¦.'<•&#.•• j x-<.•'.:• >v «v ¦», • ^-:< v ^ s-> •v'/-^ ••• ' •*•'*'• / vM ’>:¦', • >3^**;» • *>' •-.•• -&*: fci •'•iS- >^'\y •>«?:>??•<fA&& ,‘X*M - :> v ><J*S •#£>&&
s •• •» i i>'- • •* *<«* *ps#-xr* • w*; ' • <&**:<:. <v'Vi' yih v$ ¿¿xtf -<•> ¿+- >'¦<• ••: •>*> '<iy5< <*>>v-^ ....\ v ;<t^v <:%
'><>:
Burning the midnight 
oil may be necessary. 
Burning the 2:00or 3:00 
or 4:00 AM oil is absurd. 
Especially when an HP calculator can get the 
answers you want — in time to get a good night’s 
sleep.
For instance, our HP-15C Professional Scientific Calculator 
has more built-in advanced math and statistical power than any 
other calculator. Our HP-41 Advanced Scientific Calculators have 
even more potential.
That’s because there are better than 2500 software packages 
available for them — more than for any other calculator.
There’s even a special plug-in software package (we call it the 
Advantage Module) that’s designed to handle the specific problems 
an engineering student has to solve in his, or her, course work.
No wonder professionals in engineering and the physical sciences 
widely regard HP calculators as the best you can get.
So check one out. Then, when your mother calls to ask if you’re 
getting enough sleep, you won’t have to lie.
By the way, if you want more information, just give us a call 
at 8OO-FOR-HPPC. Ask for Dept.658C. V7'^| HEWLETT
mUfM PACKARD
A Bear’s View
By Theo Bear
Special to the Tartan
The following is a story that was 
written completely by a Teddy Bear 
belonging to one of our staff members. 
Theo was very eager to write the story 
but as you will learn he has troubles 
typing. We have therefore taken the 
liberty of having him record his story and 
we then transcripted it exactly as Theo 
said the words and follows below.
As a Bear, most people don’t notice 
tings about dis campus dat I do. Mainly 
dis place is very, very discriminatory.
Dat's right, discriminatory. Dere ain't no 
place on dis campus that has a door that 
is smaller than six feet. Big deal says 
the guy reading in 2210, but if you're 
only a foot and a half tall it makes it 
very hard to reach da doorknob! If you 
have to get into a building and dere ain't 
no one around to let you in, it’s kinda' 
tough.
Dere's something else dats 
discriminatory too. In all da 
clusters, first dey won't give me none of 
da software because dey never see me! If
I gets lucky enough to gets da disk I still 
can't reach da dumb computer. Finally,
deres no way a poor little bear can ever 
type anything on dose little tiny keys! 
(However, dis is not so bad, because dere 
are always dese skoits around dat are 
willing to help a poor teddy bear without 
fingers to type.)
Buts I do have to admit dat I like dese 
Macintosh 'tings. They are very kind to 
us bears as deys gots dese mice 'tings dat 
are connected to dem. Dis means that I 
gets to do neat 'tings with dem. My 
fav'rit of dese is to draws in MacPaint 
and MacDraws. Dis is da most fun a 
bear could ever dream of next to 
snugglin' with anutha bear. I means dat 
you can make almost anyting you want 
to. Balloons, Bears, Honey Pots,
Dames; anyting!! Try it and you'll see 
what I mean. What's I really like to do 
is just makes dese circoils and fills dem 
with all sorts of patterns. It's all kinda 
neat stuff to do, see? I'ves even done a 
few self portrits.
Dey tells me dat all I jus said is goin' 
in Da Tartan dat dey want to know 
wheres I came from. I comes from a 
very high class a bear, Bialosky in fact, 
buts I don't go ins for dat snob stuff. I'm 
jus' an ol', but not too ol', city bear from 
New Yoik, the only city dere is.One of the authors creations
PGI2602

---------------------------------------------------

SENIOR PORTRAIT SIGN-UPS NOW
at the Skibo Information Desk
OPENCBB
SUNDAY thru WEDNESDAY OPEN TILL 2 AM 
IH THURSDAY, FRIDAY & SATURDAY OPEN TILL 3 AM
C-Book Correction Form
The C-Book is Chiu’s student directory. If 
you think that your data with the Registrar 
Is incorrect ( eg. you have moved 
recently ) , please fill in this form and 
submit it to the Skibo info desk by 
Wednesday, Sept 17.1906.
Name:___________________________
Address:_________________________
_________________Phone :________
Class:____________Major :_______
Please contact Alpha Phi Omega at Skibo 54 or 
268-2116 if you need more information.
Another A Phi O Service
OrthodoxChristian
Fellowship
Meetings and discussions held Wednesdays 
over lunch at 1:00 pm in the Morewood 
Gardens Cafeteria.
EVERYONE WELCOME!
Sittings begin on September 29 in Skibo Rm 45. 
Questions? Call the Thistle Yearbook @ x2121
F^APRI PIZZA
3415 Forbes Avenue (near Magee Hospital) • Oakland
CALL US TODAY 681-2202
LARGE 16 INCH 
PI
PLUS
HOT CHICKEN
WING ZINGS
and French
2 LITERS OF PEPSI
^ $4.50
*We Deliver/Limited Area
PIZZA
+ Tax
WE SERVE
LIQUOR, BEER, & WINE
(6 Packs to Go)
HOAGIES
PROVOLONE STICKS...........................1.25
EGO ROILS.............................................75*
FRENCH FRIES........................................73*SALADS
FRESH TOSSED SALAD......................1,
BREADED MUSHROOMS....................1.15 FRESH GREEK SALAD..........................2.19
CALL FOR TAKE OUT 681-2202 
FAST. FRIENDLY DELIVERY
CUTS PLAIN CHEESE 
JUNIOR 4 2.50
SMALL 6 3.25
MEDIUM 8 4.00
* URGE PIZZA - SEE SPECIAL * 
X-LARGE 12 5.50
TOPPINGSPfpTwi, Htkr—mt, Green Peppers, litre Che«»«, Oniem, Smseye, Anckovtet. Macfc Olivet
WHOLE HALF
ITALIAN........................3.401.93
SALAMI........................3.401.93
CAPICOLLO................3.401.95
HAM & CHEESE3.401.95
STEAK..........................3.601.99
HOT SAUSAGE............3.601.99
MUSHROOM STEAK..3.731.99
FISH HOAGIE.............3.751.99

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment 
Comics 
Gallery 
Classifieds
Events
Back by popular demand: More Joe Bob Briggs!
by JOE BOB BRIGGS
Drive-In Movie Critic
Speaking of lost causes, I decided 
to end my three-week boycott of 
"Saw 2," the movie that used to 
have me in it but was butchered 
by communists before it got releas­
ed. (Actually, eight copies of the 
flick got shipped out of El Lay 
with my scene still in threre, so if 
you see one of those, you’re al­
lowed to add one additional star to 
this review).
The most famous cannibal family 
of the past 20 year is out collectin' 
Yuppie Meat on Texas/OU week­
end in Dallas. The only problem 
is, this bimbo deejay records the 
sound of a guy genin' his brain 
chainsawed through the sunroof of 
a a Mercedes ’cause the guy hap­
pened to be requestin’ a song by 
Humble Pie on his daddy's cellular 
car phone at the time.
So this new evidence gives 
Dennis Hopper, the well-known 
acid-head Texas Ranger, the chance 
to buy three Black and Deckers for 
himself and go after leatherface.
I have to admit, I didn't think 
"Saw 2" had a chance—but Tobe 
did it again. Leatherface not only 
saws up a radio station, but he 
falls in love.. His brother Chop- 
Top walks around carry in' the skin 
of Edwin Neal, who didn't get re­
hired for "Saw 2," and fryin' the
metal plate in his skull with the 
hot end of a coat hanger.
We got everything except breasts. 
Eight dead bodies. Twelve gallons 
blood. Character actor carving. 
Thirty-five actual chainsaws. Ch- 
ainsaw sex. Scripture quoting Den­
nis Hopper ("I am the Lord of the 
Harvest"). Mercedes Fu. Big Red 
Cola Fu. Top Forty Fu. Gra­
tuitous eyeball pate. Drive-In 
Academy Award Nominations for 
Jim Siedow, the only star back 
from "Saw Uno," who runs around 
rantin' about the high cost of meat 
and telling his son "You got one 
choice, it's sex or the saw"; Car­
oline Williams, as the bimbo 
survivor, who almost equals Mari­
lyn Bums, the greatest screamer in 
Saw history, but discourages Lea­
therface from slicing her head off 
by saying "I'm trying to be open 
with you, it's nobody's fault, I just 
can’t do this"; Bill Johnson as the 
greatest Leatherface since Leather­
face; Tobe, the master; Kit Carson, 
for writing lines like '"Nam flash­
back! 'Nam flashback!"; Joe Bob 
Briggs for bein' cut out of the 
movie for no apparent reason, and, 
of course, Bill Moseley as Chop- 
Top, for requesting "Inna Gadda Da 
Vida" and saying "A bonus body!" 
and "Bubb’s got a girlfriend!"; and, 
as he bludgeons an innocent 
bystander to death, "Incoming 
mail!
Incoming mail!"
Three stars. Joe Bob says check it 
out.
Joe Bob
Mail Bag
Communist Alert! The Dent 
Drive-In on Interstate 74 in 
Cincinnati is getting nuked at the 
end of the month by Holiday 
Amusements so they can turn it 
into an indoor-bullstuff multi­
dump. But listen to this—it's 
gonna take ten indoor screens to 
replace one drive-in. Remember, 
without eternal vigilance, it can 
happen here. To discuss the 
meaning of life with Joe Bob, or 
to coerce him into sending you 
some free movie junk, write Joe 
Bob Briggs, P.O. Box 33, Dallas, 
Texas 75221.
Dear Joe Bob:
I thought that I would explain the 
meaning of life, and illustrate my 
explanation by—heh, heh—telling 
an amusing little story, wh­
ich—heh, heh—is so amusing 
that—heh, heh, heh, hee, hee, hee, 
hee. Ha! Ha! Ha! Ha! wheeze! 
wheeze! Haw! Haw! Haw! Haw! 
Haw! Whoop! Whoop! Whoop!
continued on page D2Leatherface emotes
PSO Season:Guttierrez, Gould, and Maazel dazzle sold-out crowds
By KARAN SILVA
Tartan Music Critic
Thursday evening at Heinz Hall 
the performance of the Pittsburgh 
Symphony Orchestra began and 
concluded with a standing ovation. 
The first of which was directed at 
Lorin Maazel for his apppointment 
as Music Director in 1988 thru 
1992. The later, was directed to 
Maael along with the entire orch­
estra and soloist Horacio Gutierrez 
for a job well done.
The Thursday concert, also played 
on Friday and Sunday, featured The 
Classical Variations on Colonial 
Themes, a world premeire piece by 
composer Morton Gould, Hin­
demith's Mathis der Mahler and 
Brahms' Concerto No. 2 in B-flat 
Major for Piano and Orchestra.
The opening work, Variations 
was an unpredictable blend of e- 
motions. The orchestra climbed 
suddenly from melancholy to 
triumph, much to the delight of 
the audience. Gould utilized the 
orchestra to its fullest by scoring 
Variations for two flutes and pic­
colos, two oboes, two clarinets, 
two bassoons, four homs, two 
trumpets, two trombones, timpani, 
chimes, snare drum, cymbals, bass 
drum, tambourine, harp and str­
ings. The work was commissioned 
by the Pittsburgh Post Gazzette in
honor of its 200th anniversary. 
Gould bases his Classical Var­
iations on three tunes popular in
(1759) by Francis Hopinson. The 
incredible blend, characteristic of 
this piece, exists in the interwoven
Horacio Gutierrez performed with power and grace
the American Colonies during the 
period of the founding of the Post 
GazetteWilliam Billing's Con­
quest (1786), China, (1793) by 
Timothy Swan and Fugale Finale
melodies that range from heavy to 
light.
At the conclusion of his work, a 
beaming Gould came out on stage 
and took a bow. The former child
progidy compser Gould, has 
worked on radio for WOR, NBC 
and CBS. He has also written num­
erous orchestral scores, one of 
which, Brickfield Gallery, was 
commissioned by the Cleveland 
Symphony Orchestra and conducted 
in 1979 by Maazel.
Hindemith's Mathis der Mahler 
emphasized the woodwinds and 
spotlighted the Symphony's brass 
section. In the third movement, the 
Temptation of St. Anthony, the 
strings begin and the brass enters 
as the opposing element. They end 
in a spirited and dramatic passage 
that was well taken by the 
audience.
The other two movements are 
more serene. In Angel's Concert 
the brass was again prominent and 
the woodwinds led the mournful 
Entombment.
The three movements correspond 
to several sections of the opera 
Mathis der Mahler also by Hin­
demith.
After the packed house settled in 
after intermission, very few had 
any idea of what a treat awaited 
them. Gutierrez is a widely aclaim- 
ed pianist, but he has yet to release 
a recording of this standard piece. 
After hearing him play I now 
know why. There is no way an 
album or CD capture the utter bril­
liance of this extrodinary artist.
His playing is powerful yet 
delicately controlled. Throughout 
the entire first and second move­
ments he played with such inten­
sity it seemed that he was playing v 
through the piano.
Shifting gears accordingly with 
the score, his playing in the slow, 
third movement was effortlessly 
romantic and beautiful. His runs 
varied in volume and touch, giving 
each it’s own identity.
After a superb duet with principle 
cellist Anne Martindale Williams, 
who’s sensitive playing proved 
why she is considered one of the 
finest principles in the country, 
Gutierrez concluded this amazing 
performance with the same power 
that filled the first two move­
ments.
Since Maazel will be here for 
four years it is a sure bet that he 
and the orchestra will do a sign­
ificant amount of recordings, some­
thing that they have not done since 
Steinberg, and it is an even surer 
bet that the Guttierrez Brahms No
2 will be one of the highpoints.
Vext at the Symphony
>ept 19,20,21
Shostakovich, Violin Concerto 
Tchaikovsky, Symphony No 6 
Viktoria Mullova, violin 
Lorin Maazel, conductor______

---------------------------------------------------

Page D2—The Tartan—September 16, 1986
International Music Feastival features Jean-Luc Ponty
PITTSBURGH- "Music Lives! The 
Pittsburgh International Music Festival," to 
be presented by the Pittsburgh New Music 
Ensemble, Inc., September 18 through 21, 
1986, will feature top soloists and ensem­
bles from around the world, performing 
works by living composers.
Headlining the four day of activities are 
Violinist Jean-Luc Ponty and Steve Reich 
and Musicians.
Also featured is the International Com­
posers' Forum, a performance by the Pitts­
burgh New Music Ensemble, David Stock, 
conductor, of six works chosen from almost 
200 scores submitted from composers in 23 
countries.
Five of the six composers will be present 
for the Festival and will take part in a panel 
discussion following the concert, moderated 
by Australian composer Vincent Plush.
The Festival begins with Steve Reich on 
Thursday, September 18, followed by 
"International Soloists Night" on Friday, 
September 19, Featuring Harry Spamaay, 
Bass Clarinet, Rohan de Saram, 'cello, Mar­
garet Leng Tan, piano, and Paul Terracinin, 
trumpet.
The Composers Forum will be held Sat­
urday afternoon, and that evening Markus 
Stockhausen, trumpet, and Antidogma
Musica, a chamber ensemble from Italy will 
perform.
The Festival ends Sunday night with per­
formances by Expose and Mr.Ponty pre­
miering a piece with the Ensemble which he 
wrote especially for the Festival.
Two other works, by Chinese avant-garde 
composer Ge Gan-ru and Iranian composer 
and University of Pittsburgh graduate Reza 
Vali, will have their premieres at the Fes­
tival also.
In addition to the five main events, there 
are also four pre-concert recitals to be held 
each evening at 7 p.m. in the Green Room 
of Carnegie Music Hall, and three late-night 
cabarets scheduled for Graffiti in Oakland.
The Graffiti shows will feature Joelle 
Leandre, actress soprano-contrabass, The St­
ring Trio of New York, and the Rova Sax­
ophone Quartet.
Technical assistance for all Festival 
performances in Carnegie Music Hall is 
being provided by the SONY Corporation of 
America, Consumer Audio Division, which 
is loaning state-of-the-art Digital equipment 
for the event.
Noted artist Philip Pearlstein’s watercolor, 
"Figure with Walkman Overlooking Mount 
Washington," commissioned by the En­
semble, is featured on a poster com­
memorating the Festival.
A limited number of posters, designed by 
Frank Garrity of Garrity Houghes and Com­
pany, are available for purchase at the Poster 
Gallery in Oakland and at other galleries 
around the city.
A festival ticket, good for all Carnegie 
Music Hall events, is available for $30($25
for students and senior citizens) by calling 
(412) 391-5531. Single tickets to all even­
ts, including the concerts at Graffiti, are 
available at Kaufmann's, National Record 
Mart, and the Tix booths.
For more information on Music Lives! The 
Pittsburgh International Music Festival, call 
(412)391-5531.
At Forbes
Architects display images of China
BY CHRISTOPHER GRAY
Special to the Tartan
This week's exhibit, "The China 
Experience", features the work of seventeen 
architecture students who studied in China 
this past summer. The show will consist of 
artifacts of Chinese life, sketchbooks, and 
studio projects.
These projects, accomplished during a three 
week stay in Kunming, present solutions for 
a proposed visiting university for western 
students in China.
The studio's intensity, with architectural all- 
nighters, reportedly baffled the more easy 
going Chinese students and faculty. Omer 
Akin, the architecture department head, cred­
its his students with presenting work of ex­
cellent quality, equal to that done in CMU's
I
?
At NSA;
We Have The 
Intelligence 
To Keep Your 
Options Open.
Electrical / Electronic / Computer Engineers... 
Computer Scientists...Mathematicians... 
Language Specialists
Latitude. That’s what keeps a job invigorating 
—the chance to expand your interests, to take 
on unheard of challenges, to grow out as well as 
up. Well, that’s precisely what the National 
Security Agency offers you as one of our people.
NSA performs three all-important tasks. We 
analyze foreign communications. We safeguard 
America’s vital communications. We set secur­
ity standards for the government’s mammoth 
computer systems. And we want you in on the 
job.
NSA offers choices upon choices. In assign­
ments. In projects. In careers. But whatever 
your role, it’s going to make a difference; it’s 
going to produce immediate results.
For an Electrical / Electronic / Computer 
Engineer options abound. In fact, the entire 
technological and functional spectrum are 
yours for exploration. Microprocessor im­
plementation and programming, communica­
tions systems, LSI/VLSI, CAD/CAM, systems 
architecture and optics. Among others.
To the Computer Scientist, we deliver op­
portunities across the frontier of finite state 
machine development. The applications realm: 
systems design and programs, applications and 
evaluation, and computer security research and 
design.
Mathematicians research a variety of mathe­
matical concepts including probability theory, 
statistics, Galois theory and group theory
Language Specialists in Slavic, Near Eastern 
and Asian languages meet the challenges of 
translation, transcription and analysis head 
on. Every day.
Whatever your field, you can be certain to 
find many paths cleared for you. You’ll also find 
a competitive salary, enticing benefits and an 
appealing suburban location between two vital 
urban centers—Washington and Baltimore.
For additional information, schedule an in­
terview with your College Placement Office. Or 
write to the National Security Agency.
NSA will be on campus Oct. 14th interviewing 
graduating seniors. Limited summer positions 
available for those who have completed junior year.
-
NATIONAL 
SECURITY 
AGENCY
NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY 
ATTN: M322 (AAM)
Fort Meade, MD 20755-6000
U.S. citizenship required for applicant and immediate 
family members.
An equal opportunity employer.
more familiar surroundings. Akin, along 
with Henry Hanson, accompanied the 
Carnegie Mellon students and found 
themselves feeling more like students than 
instructors.
The architects' trip began with a week in 
Kunming to see the sights. The next two 
weeks, in Dali and Leijung, involved more 
cultural and architectural absorbtion. The 
next three weeks were spent in their studio 
back in Kunming, followed by their final 
week, spent observing the breathtaking 
imperial architecture of Beijing.
The students reported a great interest on the 
part of the Chinese in American customs and 
language. This, in fact, presented an 
unexpected design problem when creating 
their university design proposals. The 
Chinese faculty pointed out that open public 
circulation would result in a a flooding of 
the university courtyard by curious Chinese 
spectators. The most alien American custom 
to the curious Chinese, however, proved to 
be haki-sak. During long waits at airports 
and such, the architects would play to help 
pass the time, and consequently attract 
onlookers, who, if adventurous enough, 
would occasionally even participate.
"The China Experience", features work by 
Steven Ciulla, Simon Demirjian, Bridgett 
Del'Orto, Ken Doyno, James Yu, Milton 
Smith, Mark Schindewolf, Doug Sipp, Jeff 
Kobemick, Katzi Siegl, Mark Knowlton, 
Tassoula Hadjiyanni, Craig Scott, Mariko 
Braswell, Dave Parker, Clark Brewer, and 
Clemente Duran-Ballen, and opens Tuesday 
night at 7:00.
The show will continue through Sunday, 
the 11th and should prove an exciting look 
at Western architectural interpretations of an 
Eastern architectural experience.
itmued from front page
[ore Joe Bob...
wheeze! wheeze! wheeze! Har! Har! Har! Har! 
HUur! wheeze! wheeze! Ho, Ho, Ho! hee, hee 
lee, hee. wheeze! wheeze! Whew! Oh my 
ah my.
Aw, some other time.—Clarence, Dal*
3ear Clarence:
Anytime you need to take up valuable 
space in a newspaper for something like 
that, just let me know.
Dear Joe Bob:
What’s the deal with France? First the> 
give up in WW Eye-Eye, and now they den> 
is that same air space we fought for 
By God, if it wasn’t for the U.S. of A, the 
iffel Tower would be a fast-food restaurani 
called Kraut-in-a-Box.
And is this the thanks we get? Here we are 
Tying to make the world safe for drive-ins 
*nd they don’t want us to wax some gu> 
kvho can't even decide how he wants his 
lame spelled.
The way I see it, we oughta draw a line 
rom Texas to Florida. Any Frenchmar 
caught crossing this "Line of Maim" shoulc 
lave his croutons crushed.
Nuke the French.—Rufus Turboe 
Sfequite, Texas
Dear Rufus:
It's not France's fault really. You got tc 
realize they can't hardly govern that country 
cause it’s full of French people. Get rid oi
ton and to country would be fifls.
I

---------------------------------------------------

September 16, 1986—The Tartan—Page D3
Maazel is here in Pittsburgh, and he's here to stay
By BRUCE KASAREL
Tartan Entertainment Editor
PITTSBURGH: Early last Thursday 
morning the Pittsburgh Symphony 
announced that Lorin Maazel would assume 
the post of Music Director effective in 
1988. His contract calls for him to assume 
all leadership duties along with 8-12 
subscription concerts, and all tour 
performances.
“We are proud to have a new Music 
Director of top international standing. 
Meastro Maazel has joined a long line of 
illustrious permanent conductors of the 
Pittsburgh Symphony, a line that began 
with Victor Herbert and continued through 
Fritz Reiner, William Steinberg, and Andre 
Previn,” stated Pittsburgh Symphony 
President G. J. Tankersley at the Heinz 
Hall press conference.
For Maazel the post symbolizes a 
homecoming because he played his first 
professional concert as a violinist with the 
Pittsburgh Symphony at the age of 17.
Bom of American parents in Paris, he 
moved to Pittsburgh and attended
Peabody High School. He then continuede 
his studies at the University of Pittsburgh in 
Philosophy. He was discovered by Leopold 
Stowkowsky and was touted as the premier 
child prodigy conductor of his day.
Since Maazel has assumed the podium he 
held positions of Manager and Artistic 
Director of the Vienna State Opera; Music 
Director of the Cleveland Orchestra, the 
Berlin Radio Symphony Orchestra and the
National Orchestra of France; Artistic 
Director of the West Berlin Opera Company 
and Principal Guest Conductor of the 
Philharmonic Orchestra of London. In 1984 
became Music Consultant of the PSO.
Tartan Top Eleven 
Topic: Kike DKhes or 
World War II System
11) I wo Jmia 
10) Lima Bean Casserole 
09) Batter Dip Haddock 
08) Midway
07) Baked Turbot Supreme 
06) Battle of the Bulge 
05) Moussaka 
04) Ratatouille 
03) D-Day
01 ) tie: Battle of Wisconsin 
and Monerey Jack Vegtable 
Bake
Courage is not the 
amount of Risk one is 
willing to take; it is the 
amount of 
Embarrassment one will 
endure
— Nissim
Thanks, CMU,
for Patronizing our 
USED BOOK SALE.
The Book People"
QUESTION #3.
WHAT EXACTLY IS
AT&T'S "REACH OUTAMERICA"?
a) A long distance calling plan that lets you make an 
hour’s worth of calls to any other state in America for 
just $10.15 a month.
b) A 90-minute special starring “Up With People’.’
c) A great deal, because the second hour costs even 
less.
d) If you’d read the chapter on Manifest Destiny, you’d 
know.
e) Too good to pass up, because it lets you save 15% off 
AT&T’s already discounted evening rates.
If you can guess the answers to this quiz, you could save on your
«t . i i »11 »ii a mo^a.«a, a________*___fj i________
including Alaska, Hawaii, Pyerto 
Virgin Islands—for ju^r$1^5^jgonj 
All you have to do is calFweeRends, 
11pm Friday until 5pm Sunday, and 
every night from 11pm to 8am. Save 
<3§3Poff our already discounted evening 
rates by calling between 5pm and 11pm 
Sunday through Friday The money you 
could save will be easy to get used to.
To find more about ‘¡Reach Out America”;» 
or to order the service, can toll free 
today at 1800 CALL ATT, 
that is 1800 225-5288.
d the U.S.
ART
The right choice.
<S> 1906 AT&T

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
InkspotsBLOOM COUNTY
TTre kNo smK kNon-d tNsA CRIMINAL, ANARCHIST,cuteatacsu N- eoMeoNé blNTHINKS McPONALP'S lurdo-pi-c sucsi \ Cahi ruchatp 
suei ? j*Of
eaCC sli vusHAS PEEN CAUGHT TRYING TO SNEAK PACK OVER WE US BORPER //
THEY'RE JUST MAKING SURE HE'S THOROUGHLYioo%, s-oi eCod 
uCC uri-avut ymzjgwm.TCHER HERE,FISHING.PONTWORRY..,
BLOOM COUNTY
"Marge, don't you think that he’s a little too 
prepared for his first day of Kindergarten?"
by Berke Breathed
To m Mti 
MLKW
( TO MAKE tf&Qi
sommoH) Offt&VOtM
BLOOM COUNTY
mxiMMiiwms,
wemummptu,
MXflwtmmmss
eeHwwimcumi/
kvulnblkREXACTLY, PIPne am euvh
BLOOM COUNTY
EVENNOW, ASTHE MEAPOWcNvaisk biCvNric euvh eaCCTW CAT, SOMETHING is GOING ON INOLIÒ (il. JONES 'PASE- MENT LAPORATORY... SOMETHINGrm mi fN-i2i- vlutpi sliRELATIONSHIP PETWBBN MAH ANP HIS UNIVERSE... M
ves... kNo uCa podccie asTTT recerofwmoN /ANP AT THIS VERY M0M6NT, OLIVER IS GOING TO TELEPORT
lac rNCiN5Cic -apls sl-NoplTHE PASEMENT CEIUHG ANP REARRANGE THEM HERE AT THE TOP OF THE STAIRS... Æ
APPARENTLY WILL A Few PUGTH IN THE WYTHTEM...
BLOOM COUNTYInkspots
50. . UKE, COULP YOU PUT MY SUPPERS INTO A CLOSET IN ___ EGYPT ? SURE.
wepoRmnoN,jS WMP ' biCCR WHAT'S THATf PUTTING / IT SIMPLY.
WELL PEARCE TO INSTANTLY SENV ANYTHING ANYWHERE.
BLOOM COUNTY
sli bo buttu
tiapleN-lNNe see rk Ciu2ic SftSpeeN eor-de at rCONSIPeRlNO YOUR YARP (% A GRENAPB AGAIN ^THROUGH YOUR THIS YEAR, wiNPOw. -osli-fN-e' D
He sdCieN-sde Cahi blusL300 GUINEA PIGS V INTO MY WIFE'S jCJ PATH THIS MORNING. ñs T* SOMETHING'S GOT tir-72? 06 PONE, JONES 4
rtlGET TO THE POINT.IT 'S YOUR, pay aAGAIN. i
THANKS, RUTHBRFORP. YOURS TOO. C
•I'm tellii 
I don't K

---------------------------------------------------

Here You Areby nadini Sudd
1 /
bg Kurt Shaur
ONE D&|, uj^Lg pLA|^ 
"DuM^ßöMS 4 DßAöOwS /M 
~nte 6efo ftiArreß.____
rue UGui.G^^pueGfetfro"Tüßp Nbcu
löowy Q. scMAkx<, /fe -rve 
02AME ^sjlÉOT »<s,e OKTto|eD ipoo EMiL <5ß0/ 
mATTe£ WJ TtílTf&z Dé O
0t| cumu& CRT Tvo&r 
U60| tfgAD, U1BJ pßCCPOß>
ÍvJCh! I KeúuaV MATÉ TH£ 
AfTfiR - T4src of That om^. 
IT’s SoPTa UK£ CABRCT
LoAf AND pßü SAOCe. •
Biff and Illottgbg Atalo B Tomatoe
HEY BIFF, LET’S GO TO THE 
ALVJNm 5HOW. I HEARD IT 
WAS REALLY UPLIFTING..
_L
1 MY NAME. IS ANDY
T LOOK REAL DANDY
\ _\/^ VjCV JC/^t irtAES IN H&NDY.’
THAT WAS ALMOST AS 
UPLIFTING AS THE 
SEAFOOD CREOLt AT KILTlE.rr\/
The Carnegie Space mellónbg Thurston W. Jeffries
CAfeMEÛ\Ê-fA£UOfO WOOOl-ti. 
U*£. To AtoMûOfcacE. rTS MOST 
peofAi'sivi«» pèccæai^-'v&t,
THE cAÊCÆ&ie 5PhotbyO
ÜJ&GEtb jTHv-S lib C^e. OF THÊ 
R«k£Sf (VAÛW6MTS i *i> CWC. HvSTOfcy, 
AÆ> Las P^EPAiÄ tF \JCNAfi.e 
I kíT^ THM 'bAe.t 'tYPf\iaSC) VAjUe.ec loe» kxmo was GatoC %€TOfeC.
3o-ST lvelbÎAS€MC*STS A6.C IKJ-Ivsvs
IINTR0DUC1NQ)
i¡Wufred.for the life of me, 
rstand how I got here!"
THEY'Rt
INHüWN'.'
mr'PE
ABNORMAL !
T HUY’RE
CRlMEFlC.HTfcRi-
tridy,DenoDfS
andMCWST£RBUST£«S
THEr’RE
CHUÏANT5
tfBflr 0A)NCOSTüH^D 
StfPtK HEROS
COMING 500hi!

---------------------------------------------------

TAKE
THE
MUSIC
CURE.
7 Sunday 
Afternoon 
Concerts at 
Heinz Hall 
for only $28
Oct. 5 Zdenek Macal conducts Beethoven, Mozart,
Prokofiev and Respighi; Alicia de Larrocha, pianist.
Oct. 19 Adam Fischer conducts Berio, Bartók and Kodaly; 
Katia and Marielle Labeque, pianists.
Nov. 30 Charles Dutoit conducts Mozart, Liszt and 
Stravinsky; Hai-Kyung Suh, pianist.
Jan. 25 Michael Tilson Thomas conducts Sibelius and 
Rachmaninov; Cho-Liang Lin, violinist.
Feb. 8 Michael Lankester conducts Shubert,
Ellen Taaffe Zwilich and Tchaikovsky;
Marc-Andre Hamelin, pianist.
Feb. 22 David Zinman conducts Dvorak and Elgar;
Shlomo Mintz, violinist.
Mar. 15 Christoph Eschenbach conducts Schumann and 
Dvorak; Justus Frantz, pianist.
Concerts 
begin at 2:30
All major credit cards 
accepted. To order
THE PITTSBURGH <1 i/t-tfw nnn jqa<|
rsnm.Sws call (412) 392-4821
Mozart Joins Weekend 
Class.
Just what is Weekend Class? 
Relax, it's not more school. 
It's a chance to enjoy the 
Pittsburgh Symphony at unbeliev­
able student discounts. Mozart 
is just one of the music masters 
we've lined up this season 
to make Weekend Class a 
memorable experience.
Now, for $28 you can sub­
scribe to 7 Sunday after­
noon concerts hand 
picked to fit your 
Fall and Spring 
semesters. That's 
only $4.00 a 
concert.
For even more 
enjoyment, call 
392-4821 and ask 
about our 12-concert 
Sunday afternoon or 
Friday evening series 
for only $72, or 
24 Friday evening 
concerts for $96.
Inter-Varsity Christian Fellowship
invites you to a FREE
COFFEEHOUSE
wiht CMU's own
KARL SCHULZE 
and band
"He's Magnificent!" - Karl's mom 
"He's Awful!" - Karl's evil twin, Karl'
Join us for a night of contemporary Christian Music (and Cookies.)
Saturday, Sept. 20, 9 P.M. 
in the Wherrett Room, Skibo
Remember - God is Awesome!
SORRENTO’S PIZZA
Atwood St. Across From Post Office
WE DELIVER FREE
#621-9129
Thin Crust Pizza Thick Crust Pizza 
Calzones - Hoagies — Pizza BagelsDinners
Special:
Large Pizza 
$4.50
Expresso and 
Cappucino Coffee

---------------------------------------------------

September 16, 1986—The Tartan—Page D7
Classifieds
REWARD—Free trip to Daytona plus 
commission money. WANTEI>—oraganized 
group o' individuals to promote the #1 Spring 
Break trip to Daytona. If interested, call 
DESIGNERS OF TRAVEL 1-800-453- 
9074 immediately!
Join ACORN in our fight for social & 
economic justice. Full-time/part-time work is 
available for students, training provided, 
internships possible. Call 391-8668 for an
interview.
Summer job ended? Make dollars and 
social change. Work on an exciting senate 
campaign. Join the fight for safer water in 
PA. Work 3-5 days/week; 1-10:30 PM. Call 
CLEAN WATER ACTION at 765-3053. .
Immediate openings to sell roses in
fine restaurants and nightclubs. Flexible 
schedule. Flower King. 471-7673.
Attention 15-111, 15-116, 15-118.
Retakers from Spring 1986, please contact 
Becky Aldeu in Wean 6126.
Babysitter needed. Regent Square home. 
Two days per week, some evenings. Must 
have experience with infants and babysitting 
references. Call 371-3842 after 6 PM.
Events
Richard M. Cyert will have open office hours 
for students between 3 pm and 5 pm on 
Friday, September 26, in his office, 602 
Warner Hall. Students who wish to meet with 
the president should telephone his secretary 
on 268-2200 to set up an appointment.
Library Schedule: Hunt Library: Monday -
Thursday, 8 am - 3 am; Friday, 8 am - 
midnight; Saturday, 9 am - midnight; Sunday,
noon - 3 am.
Engineering and Science Library: Monday -
Thursday, 8 am - midnight; Friday, 8 am - 6 
pm; Saturday, 9 am - 9 pm; Sunday, 10 am - 
midnight.
Mellon Institute Library: Monday - Friday, 
8:30 am - 5 pm; Saturday and Sunday, closed. 
Audio-Visual Services: Monday - Thursday,
8:30 am - 11 pm; Friday, 8:30 am - 5 pm; 
Saturday, noon - 5 pm; Sunday, noon - 11 
pm.
Word processing service—IBM
Displaywrite, resumes, cover letters, term 
papers, dissertations, theses. North Hills, 
935-6231. Call after 1:30 p.m.
For Sale—IBM-PC with 512K memory, 2 
floppy drives, 20 meg hard disk, some 
software included; Princeton HX12E enhanced 
color monitor—$2500. Call 422-8916 after 6 
PM for details.
Permanent Hair Removal—Jane
Maizlech and Associates Registered 
Electrologists, Recommended by physicians, 
355 Fifth Ave. (Downtown) 642-4451, 3347 
Forbes Ave. (Oakland) 687-3993. Facials, 
manicures, pedicures, waxing.
SWM, 29, Professional, avid swimmer 
and fitness (not health) nut. I'm looking for a 
woman who's into her body as much as I'm 
into mine, to swap interests. Photo 
exchange. John C. 381-4548, Rarely in, but 
keep trying.
Piano lessons. Sight reading. Experienced 
teacher now accepting beginners and advanced 
students all ages. Close proximity to U. 687- 
0373.
MUSICIANS/SINGERS/SONGWRITERS 
—Learn what you need to know about the 
music business. One day seminar, orig. form 
Los Angles, includes: recording, music video,
Workshops
Job Search Orientation, Learn about the 
process of an effective job search, Career 
Services and Placement resources, and 
strategies to achieve your goals at 11:30 am 
in Skibo Ballroom.
Wednesday
Movies
Orchestra Rehearsal, Fellini's allegory 
about revolution takes the form of a rehearsal 
of musicians in the 13th century Church. 
Music by Nono Rota. Pittsburgh Playhouse 
at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Orpheus, starring Jean Marais and Francois 
Perier. Poetic and sublime treatment of the 
famous legend updated with motorcycle 
gangs, etc. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7 pm and 
9 pm. Admission $2.95.
songwriting, working for yourself, tax breaks 
and much more. Plus, step by step instruction 
on how to strengthen your voice and expand 
your range. For more info, leave name and 
phone number at (412) 321-1185, (412) 767- 
4553 or call collect (818) 509-1833.
GREAT PART-TIME OPPORTUNITY.
Gain EXPERIENCE and EARN money while 
working on Fortune 500 Companies 
Marketing Programs on Campus! Flexible 
hours each week. Call 1-800-821-1543.
Shadyside: Well-kept 2 bedroom
apartment. Close to Pitt/CMU. Excellent 
location, Utilities included in rent. 824-9297.
Pizza delivery persons needed. Earn 
avg. $5/hr. OUR GANG Pizza 622-7000.
Tutors needed—for walk-in tutoring 
service. $3.50/hr.—Chemistry, Prin. of 
Economics, and Financial Accounting. Call 
Dr. Hickey x2922, Counseling Center, Div. 
of Student Affairs.
BANNERS FOR ALL OCCASIONS . . -
Games, parties, graduation, homecoming. 
Same day service, Nationwide delivery. Low 
prices $4.00/ft. Call Sign Express 264-7577.
RESEARCH PAPERS. 15,278
AVAILABLE! Catalog $2.00. Research, 
11322 Idaho, #206XT, Los Angeles 90025.
party as the important metaphor. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7 pm and 9 pm. Admission 
$2.95.
The Wizard of Oz, sponsored by AB 
Films. DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm and 10 pm. 
Admission $1.
Lectures
Dept. of Chemistry Colloquium, Dr.
Alexander Tulinsky, Michigan State 
University, speaks on "Structure of the 
Kringle Sequence in Prothrombin Fragment 1" 
at 4 pm in MI Conference Room. Coffee and 
doughnuts are served at 3:30 pm.
Workshops
Graduate Admissions Workshop, If
graduate or professional school is a 
consideration in your future, take advantage 
of this resource while at Carnegie Mellon. 
Learn tips on locating programs, finding 
dollars and sorting through application 
procedures at 4:30 pm in Skibo room 12.
Friday
Movies
Ferris Bueller's Day Off, starring 
Matthew Broderick, Mia Sara, Alan Ruck and 
Jefferey Jones. A high-powered high-school 
senior pretends to be very sick so he can 
play hookey in downtown Chicago. Wild, 
funny film. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm, 
9:30 pm and 11:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
8 1/2, starring Marcello Mastroianni and
Anouk Aimee. Fellini's masterpiece about a 
director who is trying to film a new project. 
Playhouse at 7 pm and 10 pm. Admission 
$2.95.
Stop Making Sense, The Talking Heads 
in concert, sponsored by Pittsburgh 
Filmmakers at 10:30 pm at the Fulton, 101 
Sixth Street, Downtown.
Prizzi's Honor, sponsored by AB Films. 
DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and 
midnight. Admission $1.
Special Event
Professional Women on Campus is 
holding its luncheon at noon on September 
19 in the Wherrett Room, Skibo Hall. Mrs. 
Margaret S. Cyert, wife of President Cyert, 
will speak on "Child care needs in the 
community." Admission is $4.50 for non­
members and $3.50 for members. To make a 
reservation, call x3779 before September 17.
TOLL-FREE HOT LINE: 800-351-0222, Ext 
33. VISA/MC or COD.
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS: Guide to 
Greencard From F/J/H Visas. For details, send 
$1.00 (P&H): Immigration Publications, P. 
O. Box 51599H Dallas, TX 75251.
Sales help wanted. Gourmet shop, Sq. 
Hill. Hours to suit your schedule. $3.50 
hourly. Call 521-0661.
Attention IM Majors—Does the 
Adventure of small Business intrigue you? 
Can you type at least 35 w.p.m.?
AMERICHEM^ INC., a fast, growing industrial 
chemical company is looking for a bright, 
and capable individual to train in the 
operation of all clerical functions real ted to 
our business. Excellent experience for those 
who might operate own business. Part time 
sal. negot. CALL 421-8583.
Room for Rent, panelled, sunny room. 
Large desk with deep drawers. Good couch. 
Attractively furnished, good lamps. Private 
entrance, compleete privacy quiet. 2 1/2
blocks from CMU. View of garden. No 
cooing or smoking. Small refrigerator in 
room. $190 includes utilities. Call 621-1053.
Writers Wanted—Write for your college 
paper today. Call x2111 for details.
Saturday
Movies
Back to School, starring Rodney 
Dangerfield, Sally Kellerman and Burt Young. 
A crazy comedy about a millionaire who 
decides to join his son at college by 
enrolling as a freshman. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm and 11:30 
pm. Admission $2.95.
A Passage *Mo India, starring Victor 
Banergee, Peggy Ashcroft, Judy Davis and 
Alec Guinness. Epic film about the clash of 
two cultures. From E.M. Forster's novel. 
Fine direction and performances. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7 pm and 9:45 pm. Admission 
$2.95.
Stop Making Sense, The Talking Heads 
in concert, sponsored by Pittsburgh 
Filmmakers at 11:30 pm at the Fulton, 101 
Sixth Street, Downtown.
Hannah & Her Sisters, sponsored by 
SDC Films. DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm 
and midnight. Admission $1.
Sunday
Movies
Kind Hearts And Coronets, starring 
Alec Guinness, Dennis Price, Valerie Hobson 
and Joan Greenwood. Delicious black comedy 
about black sheep of aristocratic family who 
plots to kill them all off. Guinness plays 
eight roles. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7 pm and
9 pm. Admission $2.95.
Europe in Film Series: Open City,
starring Anna Magnani. One of the classics 
of the Italian neo-realist cinema, the film 
powerfully recreates the fight of the Italian 
resistance in Rome during the last years of 
World War II.
Ziggy Stardust and the Spiders from 
Mars, sponsored by AB Films. DH 2210 at 6 
pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and midnight. Admission 
$1.
Monday
Movies
El Norte, starring Zaide Silva Guiterrez and 
David Villalpando.
Two young Guatemalans leave their village, 
travel to Mexico and then finally to Los 
Angeles where they are both helped and 
betrayed. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7 pm and 
9:20 pm. Admission $2.9S.
Salsamba. Pittsburgh's only Latin jazz ' 
quintet appears at 9 pm on September 19, 
20, 26 and 27 at Myron's Lounge in the 
Ramada Inn Airport, 1412 Beers School 
Road. Admission is free. For more 
information call 264-8950.
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy
celebrates mass on campus at 12:30 pm, 
Monday through Friday at Skibo room 39; 7 
pm, Saturdays and 10:30 am, Sundays in the 
Graduate School of Industrial Administration 
Auditorium. A solemn mass is celebrated at 
noon on Sundays in Heinz Chapel. For more 
information call 681-3181.
Tuesday
Movies
Koyaanisqatsi, A fine visual film about 
America. The film is based on the Hopi 
Indian word meaning "life out of balance." 
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 
pm. Admission $2.95.
Rules of the Game, starring Marcel Dalio, 
Nora Gregor and Jean Renoir. Classic Renoir 
film about aristocrats and working class 
people on a weekend outing. One of the 
great films of all time. Pittsburgh Playhouse 
at 7 pm and 9 pm. Admission $2.95.
Lectures
Chemical Engineering Seminar, Professor 
Dady B. Dadybuijor, West Virginia 
University, speaks on "Catalytic Clusters" at
II am in DH 1112. Coffee and doughnuts are 
served at 10:45 am in the Conference Room, 
DH 1102.
Lectures
Fred W. Friendly, one-time president of 
CBS News and producer of Edward R. 
Murrow's "See It Now," speaks on 
"Journalism on the 200th Anniversary of the 
Constitution" at 4:30 pm in Skibo Ballroom. 
For more information call Kyle Fisher at 268- 
2900 or 268-3580.
Workshops
Resume Writing, Get your resume off the 
ground by learning some basic guidelines. 
See examples and conduct a resume critique as 
if you were the personnel officer at 4:30 pm 
in Skibo room 13.
Interviewing Skills, Calm anxieties by 
learning about the format of a screening 
interview and how to prepare for it at 11:30 
am in Skibo room 12.
Thursday
Movies
The Belles of St. Trinians, starring 
Alastair Sim and Joyce Grenfell. Fabulous 
classic farce about a weird school for girls 
and the headmistress who isn’t playing with a 
full deck of cards. One of the great British 
film comedies. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 
pm and 9:30 pm.
Admission $2.95.
The Discreet Charm of the 
Bourgeoisie, starring Fernando Rey,
Delphine Seyrig and Stephane Audram. 
Reality and illusion blur together with comic 
results in this satire on life using a dinner

---------------------------------------------------

Munch, munch, munch...
The munch ies are after you. There is only one way to stop them...a hot fresh, made-to-order pizza with 100% real dairy 
cheese. Domino’s Pizza will deliver it to your door 30 minutes or less.
.When you get the urge for something to munch on, call Domino’s Pizza... before ifs too late I 
Domino’s Pizza Delivers.
We use only 100% real 
dairy cheese.
681-1700315 N. Craig St.
521-2970
623 Greenfield Ave.
Our drivers carry less than $20.00.
Limited delivery area.
01983 Domino's Pizia Inc
$1.00 off any pizza
One coupon per pizza Expires: 9/28/86
Fast, Free Delivery'”315 N. Craig St. Phone: 681-1700
623 Greenfield Ave. 
Phone: 521-2970
i
TO ALL ACTIVITIES FEE PAYING 
STUDENTS
The Student Senate will be discussing various issues 
related to the $65,000 additional reserve (by current 
estimates) on Tuesday, September 16, at 7:00 pm 
in the Wherrett Room in Skibo
All interested students are welcome to voice their 
opinions on this subject.
Thanking You,
Tamal Mukherjee,
co-Chair, Funding and Recognition Committee
Funded by Student Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Top Technical, Marketing, 
and Business Development 
Graduates
Did you distinguish yourself here ? 
If so, then come to Oracle Corporation and do it again !
If you're in the top 10% of your graduating class and have academic credentials you can brag 
about, i. e. high school valedictorian, salutatorian, Phi Beta Kappa, Sigma Xi or other well 
respected honor societies, National Merit winner, etc., then we would like to talk to you about 
joining the best.
Oracle Corporation is a very successful, very fast-growing company which has established its 
place in the software industry with its premier relational database product, ORACLE. 
ORACLE is a SGL-based relational DBMS that includes a set of integrated application 
development and decision support tools.
Oracle Corporation will give you:
* Fascinating and challenging work. We need to staff these projects: distributed database, interactive graphics, and 
networking of hetrogeneous machines, to name a few. Work on a variety of systems, including new IBM products,
Apollos, Suns, MicroVAXes, and many PCs, including the IBM RT/PC.
* A superior work environment. Oracle headquarters is a beautiful new building in the rolling hills of Northern California, 
with a view of San Francisco Bay. We're within 20 minutes of San Francisco, 40 minutes of the Pacific, and Lake Tahoe 
is 3 1/2 hours away.
We offer exceptional salaries to exceptionally gifted, exceptionally disciplined workers. Every Oracle employee has a 
piece of equity in the company, and we provide complete medical/dental/life coverage. You can work the flexible hours that 
make you the most productive.
* A superb group of peers. Our development staff is made up of the smartest people we can find from the finest schools in the 
country.
* A sign-on bonus. If you meet the Oracle standard you may be eligible to receive a one-time bonus equal to 10% of your 
starting salary at Oracle.
I am looking for people to work in all of our divisions: Development, OEM, Field Sales and Support,Corporate Support, 
Consulting and International Divisions. If you have interest in any of these areas, please sign up for an interview or call. 
We want very much to share our success with the best.
Larry Lynn
(415) 598-8000 or 598-8183
20 Davis Drive, Belmont, California 94002

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial
Dry Rush Gives Us 
Dry Heaves
Except for three "wet" days, rush is dry this 
year. Next year it will be completely dry. That 
the University wants to avoid unpleasant 
alcohol-related "incidents" is understandable, 
but dry rush is not the best way to deal with 
the perrenial problem of a few students 
drinking too much.
Eliminating alcohol at rush parties will not 
stop students from getting drunk; they will 
simply do it at a different time and place. 
Surely, every former high school student has 
noticed that forbidding drinking does not 
prevent it. Making it a no-no might just make 
it more tantilizing.
In addition, for most students, college is an 
ideal time to grow up and learn to take 
responsibility for ourselves. For the rest of 
our lives, we are going to be presented with 
opportunities to dnnk as much as we want. At 
some point, we have to decide how much is 
too much. Apparently the University would 
rather we not get that experience on its time, 
but better now, while most of us don't have 
cars at our disposal.
Many is the time that we have heard 
statements like, "It's a shame that a few 
irresponsible individuals have to ruin it for the 
rest of you," but let's be reasonable. As long 
as the sun rises in the east there are going to 
be "a few irresponsible individuals," and the 
paternalism and hand-holding indigenous to 
this type of attitude may be appropriate in high 
school, but it certainly isn't at one of the top 
universities in the country.
Dysfunction of the 
Twenty-Second Amendment
Recently the suggestion that the Twenty- 
Second Amendment to the U.S. Constitution 
should be repealed has come under much 
discussion. This amendment, which was
approved in 1951, near the end of a long 
Democratic reign in the White House, limits 
individuals to two terms in the White House. 
The suggestion to repeal the amendment was 
obviously put forth by Republicans,
particularly Representative Guy Van Der Jagt, 
(R-Mich.), who want to keep Reagan in 
office. So while the motive behind the
proposition is of questionable worth, the
suggestion itself has some validity, and has 
enjoyed bipartisan support.
Two main reasons come to mind for putting 
an eight year limit on any one administration. 
The first is to prevent stagnation in 
government by changing leaders and to 
prevent a president from assuming dictatorial 
powers. In just six years, for example, 
Reagan has appointed three justices to the 
Supreme Court, which will influence that 
judicial body for years to come. While 
assuring that one individual will not assume 
too much power within the federal 
government is indeed prudent, the Twenty- 
Second Amendment also assures that a 
president who is good for the country cannot 
be in office for more than eight years.
As for the danger of one individual actually 
usurping power from the other branches of 
government, this does not seem probable 
given the system of checks and balances laid 
out by the Constitution, and in the context of 
today's society, the realization of this fear is 
even more unlikely. Mass communication has 
become so efficient that a President could not 
begin to take power from Congress for 
instance, without his actions being broadcast 
all over the country on C-SPAN.
The second reason, and probably more 
realistic reason why this amendment was 
enacted to begin with, is that the Republican 
party was tired of seeing a Democrat in the 
White House for the twenty-plus years of the 
FDR and Truman administrations. It is 
somehow ironic that now as the presidential 
tables have turned, many Republicans seek to 
reverse this measure.
*1- PfcePiCT THAT 1TJEMT/- Awv^Al CMErdT ÍOiLL
teA&M Mill UiAl Tfte 88 
, £Le-Cf iStu ..... L>NFoPTOAJAT£LY 31 COrlT 
TrfiMK IKS HEALTH COtLL WoLt> our LoH6- ^ 
faioUGto -So THAT Hb cat! i HiS“ victoft/ OElteftFlfcfl
VO«v'llMTVV
Congressional War on Drugs
By JACK L. POLLER 
Tartan Contributing Editor
The "War On Drugs" starts, as 
the House passed a very 
controversial drug bill Thursday.
The bill includes the following 
provisions:
* Use of the death penalty for 
individuals involved in continuous 
criminal enterprise and 
intentionally causing the death of 
other individuals.
* Approval of use of improperly 
obtained evidence without 
warrants, provided officers act "in 
good faith".
* Forced use of the military to 
stop drug traficking at the borders 
of the United States, with the 
ability to make arrests.
There are a number of things 
wrong with this bill. First, it was 
written as a "vote" bill; its main 
purpose is to gain votes for the 
upcoming November elections. 
Many Representatives have 
admitted to a "one-upmanship" in 
writing the provisions for the bill. 
Each man is attempting to go one 
step tougher on drugs. This is 
supposed to have an effect during 
the upcoming elections. It is 
widely recognized that the drug 
problem is the number one 
problem in the mind of the public; 
if a Representative is seen to vote 
for anti-drug legislation, he will 
have a much better chance of
winning his election. This is not 
the correct way to pass legislation 
that will affect every United States 
citizen.
The death penalty provision may 
be unenforceable. According to the 
Pittsburgh Post Gazette, 
"Congress has failed to approve 
constitutional procedures to carry it 
[the death penalty] out." Therefore, 
the federal government cannot 
make use of the death penalty. 
The criminal element is very aware 
that the provision carries no 
weight. Because it cannot be 
implemented, the death penalty 
loses a very strong potential as a 
deterrent to federal crime. The 
death penalty provision is basically 
useless.
The House bill contains an 
amendment which will allow the 
courts to use evidence that is 
obtained illegally. The purpose of 
this amendment is to prevent the 
release of criminals based on a 
technicality. But the amendment 
is itself a contradiction. The 
amendment attempts to convict a 
criminal for breaking a law by 
evidence obtained by breaking 
another law. This is both 
fundamentally incorrect and 
unconstitutional.
The bill also forces the President 
to use the United States armed 
forces to police the borders of the 
U.S. This is the job of the Coast 
Guard and the U. S. Customs 
Service. The military's job is to 
protect the country from attack, 
not to police its own citizens.
Instead of spending money trying 
to train the military to be police, 
the House should spend money to 
better equip and train the already 
existing police forces.
The bill attacks the symptom of 
the problem, not the problem 
itself. The bill identifies the 
problem as the criminal drug 
pusher who forces himself on the 
innocent populace. Such is not 
the case. The drug pusher is a 
capitalist. He is selling his wares 
on an open market. The 
government must recognize that 
for the pusher to sell, there has to 
be a buyer. In any market, if there 
is a demand, there will be a 
supply; but if there is no demand, 
the supply will vanish. This is 
where the root of the drug problem 
lies. The problem is not the 
pushers, but societies
overwhelming acceptance of the 
use of drugs. Any teenager can tell 
you that all of his friends either 
use drugs, have tried them, or been 
offered them. I myself have been 
offered drugs by many people. 
Although I did not then, I feel now 
that I should have turned in those 
people who I knew were in 
possession of drugs. I broke the 
law and obstructed justice by not 
turning in my friends who I knew 
were breaking the law. This is 
where the problem lies-in society's 
acceptance of drugs. In order to 
win the war on drugs, we must 
attack not the supplier of the 
drug, but the buyer. Only then will 
we eliminate the drug problem.
ntj oibás*

---------------------------------------------------

September 16, 1986—The Tartan—Page 13
Senate Chairman Stresses Need for Student Input
By PETER COHEN
Around this time students start realizing 
that Carnegie Mellon, like anyplace, is not 
rfect. Everyone has ways of improving 
campus life at CMU on his mind. These
Column
suggestions or complaints are always good, 
but in many cases they don't get heard. This 
is where Student Senate comes in. It is our 
responsibility to listen to your suggestions 
and to take action. One of Senate's most 
fundamental goals and duties is to make 
campus life better. We serve as the liason 
between students, the faculty, and the 
administration. Senate also oversees all of 
your activities fee money and recognized and 
funds any student organization that is 
qualified. But foremost is Senate's role as 
your representative in campus matters.
There are 31 student senators 
representingconstituencies from all of the 
colleges. Each college has approximately 
one senator for every 200 activities-fee 
paying undergraduate and graduate students. 
Internally, Senate is divided into four 
committees. They are: Funding and
Recognition, co-chaired by Tamal Mukherjee 
and Uday Patnaik, Campus Affairs, chaired 
by Leslie Frank, Public Relations and 
Human Resources, chaired by Nadine Flynn, 
and Academic Affairs, chaired by Cherie 
Jagerski. The Student Government President, 
Jim Denburg, attends all Senate meetings 
and participates a great deal in Senate’s 
decision making process. The meetings are 
organized and run by myself.
Over the years, Senate has helped in areas 
ranging from extending library hours, to 
giving students more input into all 
administrative decisions. But the only way
that we can be effective, is if you tell us 
what's bothering you. Don't keep it to 
yourself. If you think that your professor or 
your class is terrible, if you think that an 
administrative policy is wrong, if you think 
Senate could be doing things differently, or 
if you just have a suggestion on how to 
improve life for all of us, tell us!!! Despite 
popular thought, President Cyert and friends 
do respect student input.
You can effect school policy in a variety of 
ways. Senate meets every Tuesday night at 
7:00 p.m. in the Wherrett Room. This is an 
open forum for you to come and voice your 
opinions. Also, you can become a senator if 
you wish. Currently there are three vacancies 
in CIT and two in GSIA which will be filled 
at the September 30th Senate meeting. (For 
information about this, attend tonight's or 
next week's meeting.) The elections for the 
seats in the other colleges are held every
November and April. This fall, elections 
will be on November 18th and 19th. In 
addition, anyone can participate in Senate's 
floor and committee functions by attending 
meetings and becoming a "Senator at Large". 
For more information on this, attend a 
meeting or contact me at x2115. One of the 
best ways to influence decisions is by 
talking to a student senator. Senators can be 
contacted through a variety of ways. Each 
senator holds weekly office hours in room 
59 Skibo, and next week's Tartan will have a 
picture of each Senator along with his or her 
office hours and phone numbers. So tell 
them what you think.
Two and a half years ago I became involved 
in CMU's decision making, a decision I'm 
glad I made, you don't necessarily have to 
become a senator or even attend meetings, 
but if something is wrong at CMU, let us 
know. Become involved.
Soviet-U.S. Spy Swap Could Have Many Meanings
By LISA D. MCANANY
At a time when hopes for another summit 
between Reagan and Gorbachev still have a 
chance of being realized, Soviet-U.S.
relations take on added importance. 
Consequently, the arrest in New York of a 
Soviet U.N. employee on charges of 
espionage and the counter arrest of an 
American journalist in Moscow on similar 
charges becomes all the more significant. 
The most interesting questions which arise 
from these two arrests are, "Why did the 
Soviets arrest Daniloff?" and, "How will 
Reagan respond to the situation?"
Four possible reasons come to mind for the
Soviet arrest of Nicholas S. Daniloff,
Moscow correspondent for the magazine 
U.S. News and World Report. First, the 
August 30th arrest might have been a 
retaliatory act for the August 23rd arrest of 
Soviet Gennadiy F. Zakharov. Having 
Daniloff in custody established the
possibility for a prisoner exchange. The
Soviets proposed a trade soon after Daniloff 
was arrested, and the proposition was
grudgingly accepted by Secretary of State 
George Schulz on Friday. If the Soveits were 
seeking to bail out Zakharov, their plan 
succeeded.
Another possibility is that the Russians 
screwed up. When Korean Air Lines flight 
007 was shot down, the Soviets soundly 
proved that they are not infallible and are 
susceptible to miscommunication and just 
plain mistakes.
Something for Nothing
By JAY KATZ
There is no question that you must pay 
money for just about everything these days. 
Gasoline, chip dip, car washes, liquid soap,
drain cleaner and a whole bunch of other 
things cost money.
Have you noticed that not very much is 
free anymore?
I mean, sure, pay toilets never caught on 
but not much else seems to be costless 
anymore. Even air is purchased at some of 
our finer gasoline stations.
Yes, there are some things that are "free." 
For instance, public beaches have no 
admission charge yet it may be a substantial 
amount of money getting to one. Similarly, 
sunshine that one may find on these beaches 
is free; however, it can be very harmful to us 
as the people at tanning salons constantly 
remind us.
Some activities in nature, such as hiking, 
don't cost us anything. That is, once you 
have your hiking boots and clothing. 
Another activity in nature, skiing is much 
more costly unless you happen to know how 
to make your own skis and also happen to 
have a very large backyard.
Exercise, such as running, also doesn't cost 
any money. Yet, a runner may want to enter 
some race sooner or later, thereby paying an 
entry fee. Running shoes don't last forever, 
either.
Radio and television programming do not
A third possible explanation for Daniloff s 
arrest is that Daniloff really is a spy. If that 
is the case, we probably won't know it for at 
least a few years down the road, but it would 
explain the Soviet action and even put them 
in the right according to international law.
Finally, the Soviets might have sought to 
increase diplomatic tension between the two 
super-powers. Many people feel that Reagan 
is in a position to obtain a significant arms 
control agreement if he meets again with 
Gorbachev. Sensing this, Gorbachev may 
want to avoid a summit, but he is too 
committed to simply back-out without 
losing face, so the Soveits would need an 
excuse for backing out of summit plans. 
Enter Daniloff.
But no matter which theory you ascribe to, 
the fact is that this is but another potential 
diplomatic disaster for Reagan. It remains to 
be seen if the outcome leaves his image as 
unscathed as other potential disasters have. 
Will Reagan come out of this confrontation 
looking as rosy and suffering as little 
criticism as he has in the past with 
KAL007, the marines in Lebanon, and the 
bombing of Libya, among Others?
One thing is certain, Reagan should resist 
if Gorbachev does indeed attempt to use this 
incident as a reason to back out of the
summit. If Gorbachev wants out of the
summit, he should be forced to admit that
plainly and take his chances with world
opinion.
require payments. Indeed they don't once 
you've paid a substantial amount to obtain 
them. They also help add to die electric 
bills. While observing the programming 
may be free, it has been argued that this 
action will make the mind captive.
Library books may be thought of as free, 
but through local taxes, you end up paying 
for them in the long run. Anyway, it seems 
like not many people take advantage of the 
libraiy system.
This Tartan is free although the advertising 
placed in here in order to convince you to 
buy something or other was done in order to 
make you pay for something.
On a similar concept, frisbees, key chains, 
and balloons may be handed out with the 
name of some friendly business that, 
coincidentally, wants all of your money.
You may be able to get several free 
services at CMU such as free usage of pool 
tables, computers, and sports facilities. Of 
course, these things are free because you 
already advanced payment of $14,000 to the 
school.
Even water is being bottled and sold these 
days. Not only that, but supposedly the rich 
and educated people in our society are buying 
it. Some restaurants won't even give you a 
complimentary glass of water if that is all 
you desire.
So the few things that you usually think 
of as not costing any money actually do run 
up some expenses in some subtle way. 
Anything that is free has some sort of catch 
or condition. You sure can't get something 
for nothing anymore.
The Tartan
Olve Peersen
Managing Editor
Drue Miller
News Editor
John Friedmann
Sports Editor
Albrecht T. Powell
Production Manager
John Babich
Dossier Editor
Lisa D. McAnany
Editor-in-Chief
Joshua M. Levine
Features Editor
Olve Peersen
Photography Editor
Celeste Clark
Ad Manager
Neil Greenblum
Contributing Editor
Dave Levy
Tartan Assistant
Andrew Robitshek
Business Manager
Bruce Kasrel
Entertainment Editor
Kurt Shaw
Art Editor
Kathryn A. Sitter
Typesetting Manager
Jack L. Poller
Contributing Editor
The Tartan is the official student 
newspaper of Carnegie Mellon University. It 
is a weekly newspaper, published each 
Tuesday during the fall and spring semesters 
by students at no cost to members of the 
university community. It is printed by
Typecraft Press, Inc. Subscriptions are
available for $15 per semester, $25 per year. 
The Editorial appearing at the beginning of 
the opinion section is the official opinion of 
The Tartan editorial board. Columns are 
the opinions of individual authors who are not 
necessarily on The Tartan editorial board 
or staff. Letters to the Editor are
opinions of individual authors who are
usually members of the University 
community. A letter intended for publication 
must be signed and include the writer's 
address and phone number for verification. 
Names will be withheld upon request. The 
Tartan reserves the right to condense or 
reject any letter or column. Copyright 1986 
by The Tartan. The editorial board 
reserves the right to withhold from
publication any copy it deems unfit for 
publication.
Office: Skibo 50-52 (412) 268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan 
Box 17
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Funded in part by the Activities Fee. All 
rights reserved.
Members of The Tartan editorial board 
receive the following yearly salaries from the 
University:
Editor-in-Chief: $1,800, Managing Editor: 
$1,350, Business Manager:$1,350, News 
Editor: $1,000, Features Editor: $1,000, 
Entertainment Editor: $1,000, Sports
Editor:$1,000, Art Editor: $1,000,
Photography Editor: $1,000.
Production: Alicia Beebe, Tracy Wilson 
Typesetting: Mary Murphy 
Paul Rydzewski

---------------------------------------------------

1986 Dickson Prize in Science
Professor Benjamin 
Widom 
Cornell University
"Phase Transformations and Their Critical Points" 
4:30 p.m. Thursday, September 25,1986 
Wherrett Room, Skibo Hall 
Carnegie Mellon University
Dr. Joseph Z. Dickson, Pittsburgh Physician, and Agnes Fisher Dickson, 
his wife, provided funds in their wills for Carnegie Mellon University to 
award a prize annually to a person or persons who have made 
outstanding contributions to the field of science in the United States of 
America.
The university is pleased to honor Benjamin Widom for his oustanding 
contributions to physics and chemistry.
WE USE ONLY THE FINESf QUAIITY INGREDIENTS
SUBS
Top Quality Meats
DRINKS
14"
Meatball ..................................3.325.37
Ham...........................................2.995.07
Provdone ................................2.644.57
Hard Salami ...........................3.325.37
Tuna...........................................2.995.07
Italian.........................................3.325.37
Turkey Breast .........................3.646.27
Roast Beef .............................3.776.39
Combination .........................4.126.59
(Ham, Turkey, & Roast Beef)
BAGEL SANDWICHES
Plain, Onion 8 Poppy
Meatball ..................................3 3?
Ham ...........................................299
Pravolone ...............................264
Hard Salami.............................3 3?
Tuna ...........................................? 99
Italian ......................................33?
Turkey Breast364
Roast Beef377
Combination...........................41?
SALADS
Ffesh, Crisp ft Delicious
Tossed Salad...........................175
Chef Salad ...........................3 50
SOUP OF THE DAY
Soda 16 oz. Bottle................ 60C each
Pepsi, Diet Pepsi, Mountain Dew
BAGELS
Plain • Onion • Poppy 1/2 dozen bagels,
one kind or assorted......................... 1.80
Uncut ....................................................... 35C
w/Butter .................................................. 65C
w/Cream Cheese .............................. 85C
TACOS
A Spicy Mexican Specialty
Beef Tacos.............................................. 990
PfEROGIES
A House Specialty, Made in our 
own kitchens 
Cheese & Potato Filled, 
Smothered in our own Butter & 
Onion Sauce.
Large 12 oz. Bowl ................................ 1.45
6 to an order ...........................
w/sour cream add..................
w/tomato sauce add ............
P1EROGIES TO GO
2.95 25C 
___60C
Take 'em home and prepare them
your way By the Dozen ...3.25
CHIPS
Plain or Barbedue .............................. 30C
•Minimum order for delivery $5.00
•All subs include: cheese, lettuce, tomato, oil & spices
•Optional items are: mayonnaise, onions & hot peppers
THANK YOU FOR YOUR PATRONAGE
PLEASE USE THESE MONEY SAVING COUPONS ON YOUR NEXT 
DELICIOUS ORDER FROM BUBBA'S BREAKAWAY
2
FREE BAGS 
OF CHIPS
WITH THE PURCHASE OF 
ANY 14" BUBBA'S 
SUB
FREE 16 OZ. 
DRINK
(Pepsi, Diet Pepsi, 
Mountain Dew)
WITH THE PURCHASE OF 
ANY 14" BUBBA'S 
SUB
FREE 
TACO
WITH THE PURCHASE OF 
ANY 14" BUBBA'S 
SUB
EXPIRES: 7-31-86
•NOT VALID WITH ANY OTHER 
COUPON ON SAME MENU ITEM 
•CUSTOMER PAYS APPLICABLE SALES TAX 
•LIMITED DELIVERY AREA
EXPIRES. 7-31-86
•NOT VALID WITH ANY OTHER 
COUPON ON SAME MENU ITEM 
•CUSTOMER PAYS APPLICABLE SALES TAX 
•LIMITED DELIVERY AREA
EXPIRES: 7-31-86
•NOT VALID WITH ANY OTHER 
COUPON ON SAME MENU ITEM 
•CUSTOMER PAYS APPLICABLE SALES TAX 
•LIMITED DELIVERY AREA
CALL US
362-6900
258 S. HIGHLAND AVE.
SERVING SHADYSIDE & 
SURROUNDING AREA
OPEN: 11 AM TILL 1 AM 
FRI-SAT TILL 2 AM
? PRICES SUBJECT TO CHANGE WITHOUT NOTICE ft

---------------------------------------------------

September 16, 1986—The Tartan—Page 15
Tennis Team Enjoys Mixed Results
By NEAL LEVENE
Tartan Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon women's tennis team 
got off to a great start this Wednesday with a 
7-2 victory over Duquesne University. The 
match consisted of the top six women from 
both teams facing each other in singles 
matches followed by three matches of 
doubles. The team gained wins from five out 
of six singles positions and two out of three 
doubles positions.
Coach Peter Hawk said that this year's 
team shows much more depth than last 
year's and was very pleased with the quality 
of people trying out for the squad. This year 
sixteen women vied for the ten positions on 
the team. Coach Hawk predicted that with a 
good season the CMU team has the character 
to surpass last year's fourth place finish and 
move up to second place but Grove City, 
last year's first place team, was definitely the 
team to beat for first place. He was also 
concerned with the John Carroll team, a 
team he believes will give the Carnegie 
Mellon team a substantial challenge for
IM Report
Touch Football - During the past wee* 
Touch Football rosters were received foi 
Major, Intermediate, and Minor Leagues 
Play will begin on Monday, September 15 
?heck Intramural Bulletin Board foi 
schedule. If there are any ques-tions, pleas« 
contact the commissioners.
Majors - Paul Pecora 621-9124 
Intermediate - Vic Banko x5403 
Minors - Vince Carozza x5494 
Tennis-Tennis rosters were collected and 
)lay will begin during the week of Monday 
Septem-ber 15. Check IM Board foi 
schedule. If there are any questions, the 
x>mmissioner is Rob Schlachman, x5518. 
Golf - Sign-ups are permitted up to the 
ying date of September 28. Green fee tc 
)lay 18 holes is $4.00. Club rental will be 
vided at a $5.00 charge. Scares must \x 
:umed in with-24 hours of your match, tc 
IM Office or to Commissioner P; 
decora (621-9124). Playing time may star 
mytime after 9 AM. All players mustctyeck 
n with Golf Professional Fran Barrett at the 
Schenley Baric Course. Four person team oi 
'i
3ub - All officials «*0 signet 
ip for Touch Footaball should cont&tf Mikt 
siastroianni sometime this week. Mike car 
>e reached at the IM fields or in his new 
office located beside the Gym. His offici 
lours will be 4-7, M-F.Last CaU 
:o-Rec Volleyball 
Commissioner - Kevin Neel, x4618 
Entries due Thursday, September 18, 4:30 
Play begins Monday, September 22 
~hess
Commissioner - Stuart Fox, x4259 
Entries due Thursday, September 18, 4:30 
Play begins Monday, September 22 
"ross-Country
Commissioner - Paul Pecora, 621-9124 
Entries due Thursday, September 18, 4:30 
No playing date estblished yet.
Waterpolo
Commissioner - Hal Levine, 4077 
Entries due Thursday, September 18, 4:30 
Matches begin September 22 
Check IM Board for playing dates 
Sports Coming Up
Entries due Thursday, October 2, 4:30 pm 
Soccer - 6 person 
Volleyball - 6 person 
Bowling 
Racquetball 
Team Table Tennis 
M Board Meeting
M Board meeting Thursday, September 18 
12:30 pm in Room 101 Gym.
Please plan to attend this important meeting
second place. "Since the PAC 
Championships are being played here this 
season, it will give us a slight advantage 
this year," noted Coach Hawk.
Unfortunately, the team did not fair as well 
against the University of Pittsburgh as they 
did against the Duquesne. The Division III 
CMU team took a 6-3 loss against the 
Division I Panthers. While the team lost all 
but one of their singles matches, they came 
away with with two victories in the doubles 
matches, both in very close, three-set 
matches.
Suzi Dottor, the Tartan's #2 player, came 
away with both a singles and a doubles 
victory. In her singles match Suzi beat 
Pitt's Stephanie Nelson easily in straight 
sets (6-0, 6-3). Stephanie usually plays in 
the #3 position for Pitt. However, Pitt's 
usual #2 player, Tracy Feltingoff, was 
dropped down to the #4 spot due to illness 
where she beat CMU's Sohee Chung. After 
her match, Suzi stated that she was surprised 
that she was able to defeat Stephanie as 
easily as she did; she had expected a much 
tougher match.
In one of the closest matches of the day,
Suzi and her doubles partner Beth Cavanaugh 
beat the Pitt team 4-6, 6-1, 6-4, a success 
Coach Hawk attributed to the pair’s 
aggressive play at the net. Both players 
commented that they are still learning how 
to anticipate the other's play, yet they feel 
that they play well as a team.
The only other Tartan win came from the 
#3 doubles team of Captain Darla Messick 
and Tracy Boyd. Darla and Tracy defeated 
their opponents 6-4, 3-6, 6-2. After Darla's 
three losses this season, Coach Hawk hopes 
this win will get Darla on a winning track.
In #1 singles Andrea Benowitz, CMU's 
Assistant Captain, lost a difficult match 
against Pitt's Co-Captain Jodi Levine. Jodi 
won the match 6-4,7-6 (7-3). Andrea played 
a good match but had trouble with her serve, 
while Jodi dominated with terrific ball 
placement and a fantastic serve. Afterwards, 
Jodi stated that she had difficulty catching 
Andrea's rhythm, and she felt she was not as 
prepared for her first match as she would 
have liked.
In reviewing the team's loss against Pitt, 
Coach Hawk stated that he still felt 
optimistic for the team's chances. He knew
before the match that Pitt would be a 
challenge. Pitt has a much larger student 
pool from which to chose their players, and 
with a $5,000 tuition they can more easily 
recruit better players. The Pitt team also 
plays against much more experienced teams 
than does the Tartans. The coach wants his 
players to look at this match as a learning 
experience. The team's next match is away 
on September 16 at California University, 
and they have their first PAC Conference 
home game on Thursday, September 18 at 
3:30 p.m. .
Women's Tennis Schedule
September 16 
September 18
September 22 
September 27 
October 1 
October 4 
October 7 
October 10 
October 17-18
At California U. of PA 
Washington & Jefferson 
College 
At Bethany College 
Hiram College 
At Robert Morris College 
Thiel College 
At Grove City College 
John Carroll University 
PAC Championships at 
Bethany College
CUSTOMER INFORMATION FROM GENERAL MOTORS
HOW TO CREATE A COUNTRY 
WITHOUT A KING
THE BIGGEST POLITICAL STORY OF THE LAST 200 YEARS
Nations have different 
strengths. Military or indus­
trial might. Mineral wealth. 
Population for some, sheer 
size for others. History 
teaches us, however, that 
character survives, princi­
ples last. The government of 
the United States of America
on the CBS Network, Part 
II of the life of George 
Washington: The Forging 
of a Nation.
Based on James 
Thomas Flexner’s Pulit­
zer Prize biography, it 
shows how Washington 
proved that a country could
ORGE WASHINGTO
?N? the forcing of a ction
Sunday and Monday, September 21 and 22 on CBS
Barry Bostwick and Patty Duke return in their roles as 
George and Martha Washington
is now one of the oldest on 
Earth and, by any measure, 
surely one of the best.
The U.S. Constitution 
set forth the principles 
which embody the charac­
ter of this nation. And as 
we near the bicentennial of 
this great document, it is 
clear: The more we under­
stand the principles of free­
dom it set forth, the more 
surely those principles will 
endure.
In this spirit, General 
Motors is proud to present,
have a head of state who 
was not a king. Personal 
and political currents 
swirled around him. Thom­
as Jefferson’s concern for in­
dividual rights clashed with 
Alexander Hamilton’s sup­
port for a strong central gov- j 
ernment. The French were ! 
demanding that our new gov- j 
ernment take their side j 
against England. At the ; 
same time there was open 
rebellion in the countryside 
and bitter criticism in the 
press.
The principles of 
freedom were being test­
ed by reality. And through 
it all, Washington’s mod­
erate approach to the Pres-
idency was defining the role 
of Chief Executive for the 
generations to come.
History makes perspec­
tive possible. With the pres­
ent and future in mind, 
General Motors is proud to 
present this period of the 
American past. It is human, 
dramatic, and without ques­
tion, the biggest political 
story of the last 200 years.
We hope you and your 
family will join us on Sun­
day, September 21 and 
Monday, September 22 for 
the General Motors Mark of 
Excellence presentation, 
George Washington: The 
Forging of a Nation.
This advertisement is part 
of our continuing effort to give 
customers useful information 
about their cars and trucks 
and the company that 
builds them.
MAMOf OCCUINCt
Chevrolet • Pontiac 
Oldsmobile • Buick 
Cadillac • GMC Truck

---------------------------------------------------

15% Off ALL 
REMNANTS
with this coupon
9X12 CARPET oniy $39*s
McClures 
Carpeting
1701 E. Carson St. 
Southside 381-5140
5 minutes from Oakland 
All styles, colors. 
Room size rugs, remnants
HUGE SAVINGS ON CALCULATORS
i|E3Ii
E3GDGD È1 ED B§0&EÍ 
E3tíO
¦¦Hscrioiiiâ
EL 5400 Special Price........................$35.00
EL 550011 Scientific.............................70.00CE 126P Thermal Printer......................55.00
CE 129P Thermal Printer......................70.00
BHESBEraEaameeeEnaEL 506P Scientific.............................. 15.00EL 512P Scientific................................26.00EL 5510 Financial................................70.00
EL 5520 Scientific................................70.00EL515SSoterScientific ..................... 19.00
LaryD
denGovrmeGn
Tl 36 SLR Solar Scientific................$18.00T1 74 New* Basic Programmable..........94.00PC 324 Thermal Printer.....................69.00Tl 55 III Scientific................................33.00
T) 5310 Desktop Financial ..................85.00Tl BAH Financial..................................30.00
HEWLETT
PACKARD
HP-11C Scientific ..............................$41.00HP-12C Financial.................................72.00HP-15C Scientific.................................72.00HP-16C Programmer ..........................86.00
HFMSCNev^BusinessConsultant... 13500 HP-41CV Advanced Programmable... 126.00 HP-41CX Advanced Programmable... 179.00
82104A Card Reader.........................139.00
82153A Optic Wand..........................91.0082143A Thermal Printer.................. 275.00
Note dCr imnelgNt321 ’ja Quad Mem./, » j> HP-;
Pac for HP-4 1C CV Cx- 
S'at sí'Cs Pac ’cr HP-41C C. J .
i1C<?S 00 
1 9 90, 
19 90
?CASIO
FX115M Scientific................ $16.00FX 7000G Graphic Display......54.00
FX3600P Scientific................19.00FX451 Solar Scientific............21.00FX 8100 Scientific with Clock... 30.00FX 90 Credit Card Scientific__19.00
FX 995 Solar Scientific............27.00FX4000P Scientific..........................31.00CM 100 Scientific/Programmer.......16.00
CALL TOLL FREE 800-621-1269 EXCEPT Illinois. Alaska, Hawaii
Accessories discounted too. MasterCard or VISA by phone or mail. Mail Cashier's check, Money Ord., Pers.Check(2 wkstoclr). Sorry noC.O.D.’s. Add $4.001st item $1 eaadd’lshpg 
& handl. Shpts to IL address add 7% tax. Prices subj to change. University/College P.O.’s Welcome. WRITE (no calls) for free catalog. 30-day return policy for defective merchandise only. ALL ELEK-TEK MERCHANDISE IS BRAND NEW, 1ST QUALITY AND COMPLETE.
Ci/.fei/ Ï _ 6557 N Lincoln Ave. Chicago. IL 60645
CLWIX I CrXjirlC. (312)631-7800 (312)677-7660
UlEPHOHt
It’s a hands-free 2-lino speaker­
phone, computer terminal and a 
63-key standard typewriter key­
board...and MORE!
friTB XT300E 
Built-in 1200 bps modem!
FOR COMPUTER TIRMMALS! Here s on ideol. 
famous brand term mol at on unusually low price1 
It hooks up to mainframes or PC s that use asyn­
chronous communications Interfaces with UNIX* 
systems
FOR EXfCUTIVI USil Doto subscription services, 
hands-free speakerphone and 2-button speed dialing 
(of up to SO different phone numbers) ore great 
features for busy executives
fOR ACCESSING DATA SERVICES) An exciting 
world o< information is available, at your fingertips 
through a variety of data subscription companies 
For exomple. Dun I Brodstreet, Dow iones Compu 
serve GTf Telenet and many more1 The necessory 
modem is BUILT IN to save you the cost of on extro 
attachment
SKCIA1 FEATURES Of THIS SYSTEM: Two phone 
lines with Touch Tone* or Pulse dialing Automatic 
redial key Automatic computer signon Automatic 
screen on/off Typewriter style keyboard Full ASCII 
characters 40-80 chorocter line selectable Four 
programming function keys Full duplex operation 
300,1200, 2400, 9600 bps selectable for main or 
ouxiliary ports Con use with ouxiliory printer (not 
included) Downline loading Off-line editing
One year limited factory warranty.
Original list Prie«...$1695
Liquidation
Price...$395
To Order Call
Toll-Free 1-800-342-3484 
1-800-762-7782
tei net included.
Credit (ardi wakaiM
Coll
(SB
Data Communications 
Products«© m
NOW!! THE ONLVART STORE IN PITTSBURGH ** OFFERING A BIO **
£>/? oii-
COUNT
TOP NOTCHj ART MATERIALS. INC.* 819 PENN AVE .PGH., PA -355 0444
j Student : Discount CardI I
Art • Engineering • Architectural Framing and Drafting Supplies
355-0444
819 Penn Ave., Pgh., PA 15222 
ART MATERIALS INC. mm* Downtown
OPEN 8 to 6 • FRI. & SAT. TILL 5VISA
B. ANDREW JANOFF, M.D.
IS PLEASED TO ANNOUNCE THE OPENING OF HIS
SQUIRREL HILL OFFICE
FOR THE PRACTICE OF
OBSTETRICS AND GYNECOLOGY 
Ultrasonography • Amniocentesis 
Chorionic Villi Sampling. • In-Vitro Fertilization 
Genetic Counseling
AT
1900 MURRAY AVENUE, SUITE 301
OFFICE HOURS BY APPOINTMENT TELEPHONE (412) 422-5000
STUDENT DISCOUNT WITH I.D.
We were looking for new 
shades when I realized it 
was time to do some­
thing about my hair. You 
know, my hair was 
M MZs*-' I driving me crazy. So, we 
cruised right into Great 
Expectations. Now with 
my new cut, my hair is 
driving Bobby crazy.
Customers: Sue and Bob, 
inseparable ever since.
iGftCRT¦mmsiPRECISION HAlRCUTTERS
TheThe
DESIGNER PERMPRECISION CUTIUST-A-CUT
only $25.00.* $13.00only $8.00
Complete with written ¦ guarantee.
Comolete, with shampoo 
arjd blow style.
Cut only
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED 
Great Styles Start at
MUST HAVE COUPON 
i---------------------------------------------------------1
NO
BaadAciHtci
NECESSARY
SAVE $2.00
on a
PRECISION HAIRCUT
Complete with shampoo & styling
Offer expires 
SEPT. 30,1986
____0C(UTOiKCTIITMRS
PRECISION HAIRCUT TERS
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from Oakland Post Office
Sffij! 687-3500
PRECISION HAJRCUTTERS__|

---------------------------------------------------

Dear Fellow Students: 
The time has come for us to stop complaining about the lack of enthusiasm on campus and to do something about it. We are great students at a great university; let's prove it by supporting, encouraging, and helping each other. 
It doesn't matter what major you're in or when you're graduating, we are all 
TARTANS and should be damn proud!
With Tartan Pride,
President Student Government 
P.S. Remember "PLAID IS BAD"
\Bestperforming scooter for its size.
The Yamaha Riva Jog is the highest performing 50cc scooter made.Plus, you get to go in style. The Jog looks great with bright bold colors for ’86.And, it gets great gas mileage. But who says economical has to mean uncomfortable. The Jog offers comfortable seat­ing with a wide step- through floorboard to boot.The Riva Jog has a lot of other features to offer, including automatic transmission, electric start and a complete line of accessory items. And we have a lot of other Yamaha Riva models to choose from.So, come in today. It costs nothing to look, and not much more to own. ^
^our basic 
problem:
Physics
Genetics
Statistics
Calculus
Complex Numbers 
Analytical Geometry 
Stress Analysis 
Organic Chemistry 
Probability
Gaussian Transformations 
Differential Equations 
Titrations 
Electromagnetics 
Thermodynamics 
Fluid Mechanics 
Etc., etc., etc....
'four BASIC
solution:
I
~*
Introducing BASICALC." The new 
Texas Instruments programmable calculator.
Now there’s a programmable scientific calculator 
that solves even the most complex math, engi­
neering and science problems in a BASIC way. 
The TI-74 BASICALC.Unlike most other programmable calculators 
that require you to learn a new, complicated 
system of keystroke commands-in effect, a new
Your basic specs:
Operates as a calculator or BASIC computer 
’ 8K RAM expandable to 16K RAM 
’ 70 built-in scientific functions 
’ Optional software cartridges for mathematics 
and statistics
1 Optional PASCAL language cartridge 
1 Optional printer and cassette interface
programming language - the TI-74 BASICALC 
allows you to use the BASIC language program­
ming you already know.
But don’t let the BASICALC’s ease of opera­
tion fool you. It also has more calculating power 
than comparably-priced programmables. And a 
variety of options, like software cartridges, are 
available that make it even more powerful and 
convenient.
Stop by and see the TI-74 BASICALC for 
yourself. In basic terms, what it really offers you 
is a bargain. ¦ e
tuABW l bwWgmdcuwgW

---------------------------------------------------

DOSSIER, the Tartan's 
official literary publication, 
which publishes student poetry 
and short stories needs new 
staff members for the 
upcoming year. All students 
are welcome to attend an 
organizational meeting
tomorrow, Wednesday Sept 
17th at 6:30 in the H&SS 
lounge. If unable to attend 
leave a message at the Tartan 
office.
THE HOPES OF PEACE 
A LECTURE SERIES
Lecture begins 6:30 p.m. Dinner Served 5-6:15 p.m. 
Reservations for dinner a must 
621-8875
Sept. 17: Clash of Cultures in Israel 
Oct. 1: American-Jewish Perceptions 
Oct 15: Israeli Perceptions
Presented by Pitt Hillel Club
All participants will be our guests at 
dinner
315 S. Bellefield Ave.
Dr. Eli Goldstein Lounge
Women’s Health Services,
FREE PREGNANCY TESTING
Oakland—Rm. 212, 3520 Forbes Ave.
Downtown—3rd floor, 107 6th St.
• ABORTION SERVICES
• BIRTH CONTROL & GYNE CARE
For Your WHS SURVIVAL KIT, Fill Out & Mail Coupon To: 
Women's Health Services, 107 6th St., Pittsburgh, PA 15222 
Telephone: (412) 562-1900
Toll Free: 1 (800) 323-4636
WHS Survival Kit
Name 
Street _
. State.ZipCity _________________
College (if student) _____________;______________
Mail to: WHS, 107 6th St., Pittsburgh, PA 15222
First Annual 
Homecoming Powder Puff Football Game 
Organizational Meeting 
for 
All Interested Females 
and Males Desiring To Be 
Cheerleaders 
Tuesday, Sept. 23,1986 
6:30 p.m. 
Skibo Room 201

---------------------------------------------------

September 16, 1986—The Tartan—Page 19
Meckley Gains 300th,Women Split
Men
By Stewart Levine
Tartan Staflwriter
Flagstaff Hill has seen many things over 
years: concerts, fairs, and other activities. 
On Saturday, it saw the setting of a 
milestone. Men’s cross country coach Gary 
Meckley got his 300th (as well as 301st and 
713nd) dual meet win. The victory extended 
the Tartan’s consecutive dual meet record to 
20 in a row.
Carnegie Mellon dominated the triple dual 
meet defeating Grove City, Bethany, and 
Duquesne by perfect 15-50 scores. The first 
eight runners to cross the finish line were all 
from Carnegie Mellon. The other final 
scores were Grove City over Duquesne 17-46 
and Bethany 15-50, and Duquesne over 
Bethany 25-32.
Crossing the line first for the Tartans was 
sophomore Pat Noll in a time of 26:04. He 
was followed by junior Keith Stopen and 
freshman David Supp who finished in a 
virtual tie. Both finished with a time of 
26:37 with Stopen nosing out Supp for 
second.
Noll seemed pleased with his efforts. "It 
just went OK," he said. "We got out to an 
early lead and were able to relax and not get 
all uptight after the first mile. After we hit 
Killer, there were about five of us and we 
had about a fifty yard lead and we were able 
to relax. You run a lot better when you can 
relax. I do think we could have run faster, I 
think Keith and Dave took it easy too. I 
think they could’ve been easily up there with 
me."
Noll also talked about the relative balance 
between himself, Stopen, and Supp. He 
said, "Dave's got guts. He's gonna be good. 
On days me and Keith are down, he's gonna 
be right there. It's good to have three of us, 
without a number one man, working to­
gether. The rest of the guys, Len O'Neal, 
Tom Ford; they're all right behind us."
Coach Meckley seemed more relieved than 
excited after the race was over. "I was a 
little worried because strep throat is going 
around. It doesn't mean any more to me 
than other victory really. The fact of the 
matter is that I'm really just glad that we 
won. The kids were really aggressive. The 
strongest team in the PAC, I consider is 
Grove City and we have had some sickness 
and have had some people hurt. That ac­
counted for some people not to do as well as 
they did last year. I thought the team did 
very, very well and they're competing much 
better than last year."
Next week, the Tartans' mettle will be 
tested when they travel to Indiana University 
of Pennsylvania for the IUP Invitational. 
There they will face not only Division III 
schools, but Division I Ohio State and 
NALA power Edinboro College.
Men's Results
1Pat Noll26:04CMU
2Keith Stopen26:37CMU
3David Supp26:37CMU
4David Camine27:01CMU
5Tom Ford27:02CMU
6Len O'Neal27:06CMU
7Paul Mayer27:07CMU
8Gary Harrison27:10CMU
9John Heane27:18GC
10Bob Bingham27:28GC
Carnegie Mellon 15, Grove City 50 
Carnegie Mellin 15, Duquesne 50 
Carnegie Mellon 15, Bethany 50 
Grove City 17, Duquesne 46 
Grove City 15, Bethany 50 
Duquesne 25, Bethany 32
Women
By Stewart Levine
Tartan Staffwriter
The cliche goes, "You've won the battle, 
but lost the war." But for the women's cross­
country team, the season has been the 
opposite so far. For the second week in a 
row a competing runner has won the meet, 
but the Lady Tartans have emerged 
victorious overall each time.
The team raised their season's record to 4-0 
by edging a tough Grove City squad 26-29. 
This was despite a new course record of 
16:55 by Grove City's Cindy Langwig, and 
by handily defeating Duquesne for the second 
week in a row, this time by the score of 16- 
44.
Carnegie Mellon was led by the trio of Sue 
Johnson, Theresa Pane, and Francesca 
Crannell who placed second, third, and fourth 
overall.
Head Coach Mindy Maxwell was pleased 
with the performance of the trio. "They're 
very strong runners, and they're very 
consistent runners which I think helps. 
They have different stengths. Francesca is 
very strong on the hills, and will push both 
Theresa and Sue. Sue's a really strong
starter and she sets a really steady pace, so 
she'll draw Francesca and Theresa behind her. 
Theresa is just a very consistent runner, so if 
either of the other two falter, she’ll pull 
them around. I think that if we work on our 
first mile times, Sue can take some first 
places along the line in the season. If not, 
maybe Theresa, she needs a little more push 
in her last mile, kicking it in a little harder."
Johnson echoed her coach's thoughts, 
"We're a closely knit pack, we were all 
running together today, and I think we’re 
stronger than other teams because of that." 
Johnson was also enthusiastic in describing 
the running of her teammates by saying, 
"Theresa's an excellent runner. She works, I 
think, harder than any other runner on the 
team and I'm just surprised, I expect her to 
be top runner. And Francesca's got the 
experience, she's been working. All three of 
us ran together at the end of the race, I just 
happened to be strong at the end, I guess 
we’re really about the same."
Looking to the future, Coach Maxwell 
seemed most worried about Grove City. 
"They're going to give us a run for our 
money. I believe we'll meet them one more 
time and then we'll meet them at the PAC's. 
We've got a lot of work to keep them off, 
but the depth has really helped us this year."
Women's Results
1. Cindy Langwing 16:55 
New Course Record
GC
2. Sue Johnson17:44CMU
3. Theresa Pane18:01CMU
4. Francesca Crannell 18:08CMU
5. Jillann Haller18:21GC
6. Patti Brain19:41GC
7. Stacia Smith19:45GC
8. M. Stempkowski20:01CMU
9. Kira Alvavado20:11Duq.
10. Diane Ceonzo20:27CMU
Carnegie Mellon 26, Grove City 29 
Carnegie Mellon 16, Duquesne 44 
Grove City 16, Duquesne 39

---------------------------------------------------

Tartan Sports
Gridders Carve up Gators 36-7
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Sports Editor
There was no joy in Meadville last 
Saturday; the Allegheny Gators were blown 
out. A potent Tartan offense and revamped 
defense joined forces to make a winner out of 
rookie head coach Rick Lackner in his 
coaching debut. Not so lucky was Peter 
Vaas, who had his first game as Allegheny 
top dog ruined by Carnegie Mellon.
Lackner was very pleased with the Tartan 
effort. "I'm pleased with the way the tema 
ola. I’m gald we got to pplay a lot of our 
kids today." Asked if he had the first-night 
jitters, Lackner admitted "I was very nervous 
before the game. I didn’t get much sleep last 
night."
Tackle Neal Shipley was also happy with 
the victory, but he had reservations. "We've 
got to work harder this week to be ready for 
Case."
Running back Mike Minjock and quarter­
back Mike Hensel were the sparkplugs of the 
Carnegie Mellon attack. Twice Hensel 
connected with Minjock for touchdowns, one 
a 42 yard pass, the other 34 yards.
Minjock, named the WRCT player of the 
game, led a bevy of Tartan rushers with 42 
yards on seven carries, and caught five 
passes for 110 yards. Hensel, who played 
the entire first half plus one series in the 
third quarter, connected on 14 of 23 passes, 
good for 195 yards.
On the defensive side, free safety Rob 
Arthur intercepted a pair of Gator QB John 
Logue’s passes, and just missed snagging a 
third. But Athur claims he had a fourth, 
additional, opportunity. "I missed another 
one in the first quarter when [linebacker]
Gerry Bosch and I collided, and their running 
ba^k caught it." Two of the three 
interceptions recorded by the Tartan defense, 
including one of Arthur's, help set up CMU 
scores.
One negative note for Carnegie Mellon was 
the unusual number of penalties taken, 5 for 
63 yards, a figure well above the team’s 
normal figure last season. Tight end Mike 
Behling noted "We've got to cut down on 
our penalties."
Allegheny's only score came late in the 
game, when the outcome was a foregone 
conclusion and Lackner was giving his 
second and third team defenses a chance to 
see action. The Meadville first-stringers 
seemed determined to avoid a shutout, and 
they finally reached the goal line with a trick 
play. QB Logue lateralled the ball to Curtis 
Brown, who threw forward to fellow tailback
BB Club Loses
Eddie Taylor in the end zone.
Brown led the Gators in rushing with 43 
yards, while Taylor, with whom he usually 
splits time, gained 33. Logue, a freshman 
playing in his first collegiate game, was 9 
for 19 for 90 yards passing, but was 
intercepted three times and was -4 on the 
ground.
Carnegie Mellon thoroughly dominated the 
contest from the opening kickoff. The 
Gators attempted an onsides kick, but the 
Tartans ended up with a first down only 35 
yards from the Gator goal line.
The Tartans capitalized on their field 
position with a scoring drive that looked like 
it came directly from the playbook of Chuck 
Klausing. A handoff to Collaros, a Minjock 
run, and four dashes by Tim Denmeade gave 
CMU the lead only 2:36 into the contest.
That lead was to grow to 36 points before 
the Gators got on the board. While the 
Allegheny defense held the Tartans out of the 
end zone twice early on, once the CMU 
passing game got started the effectiveness of 
the running attack was enhanced.
It was the run that gave Carnegie Mellon 
its second score, which, despite the 
domination by the Tartans, did not come 
until 6:10 of the second quarter. Minjock and 
fullback Anthony Collaros, a fellow member 
of CMU’s running triad along with Tim 
Denmeade, advanced the ball to the home 34, 
where Hensel lofted a 3rd down and 11 pass 
to Minjock who beat Allegheney's Paul 
Sullivan to the goal line.
Minjock's second touchdown reception was 
also the Tartan's next score. A poor punt by 
Gator Rich Tencza gave CMU the ball three 
yards inside enemy territory. The two play 
drive consisted of a five yard keeper by QB 
Hensel and his bomb to Minjock. At 
halftime, the score was Carnegie Mellon 22, 
Allegheny 0.
Hensel captianed the first drive of the third 
quarter, which was started by Kent Hess' 
pickoff of the first pass of the second half. 
But with the score 29-0, Lackner and 
offensive coordinator Rich Erdelyi decided to 
send in backup quarterback Dean Garafola, 
a freshman who is getting a tryout as heir 
apparent for the signal-calling duties.
Garafola was successful in his first stint, 
bringing the Tartans in from the Gator 30 
after a Rob Arthur interception. He had 
severa good scrambles, leading towards 
Collaros' one-yard TD run for the final CMU 
score of the day.
Notes - Only 6 offensive and 5 defensive 
first teamers in this year's opener were listed 
in the starting lineup in the Tartan's NCAA
8y PERRY PIERCE
artan Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon Baseball club opened 
ip their 1986 season this week, losing to 
Jenn State, New Kensington Campus, 11-8. 
Tie Tartans mounted a massive 21 hit 
onslaught, but it was not enough to supress 
i strong New Kensington ball club. The 
Tartans are now 0-3.
The Tartans jumped out to an early lead 
)ehind the pitching of Junior Dan Bly. The 
artans first scored in the third on hits by 
Warren Flax, John Chang, Bruce Nibbelink, 
and Pat Carey. New Kensington answered 
ight back with a run in their half of the 
third, and another three in the fourth to take 
l 4-1 lead. Carnegie Mellon cut the lead to 
i-2 in the fifth, on a double by Paul 
Masalsky, and an RBI single by third 
MLseman Pat Carey.
Penn State scored another two in the sixth,
and one more in their half of the seventh 
The major probelm that Carnegie Mellor 
had was keeping Penn State off the 
basepaths, as Tartan hurlers issued sever 
walks in the game. Penn State was able tc 
capitalize on these opportunities with gooc 
baserunning and bunting that set the tables 
for one and two run singles. The Tartan 
rallied for one in the seventh, eighth, anc 
four in the ninth, on hits by Richarc 
Bogdany, Paul Masalsky, Pat Carey, Kevir 
Murtha, and Moose Shah.
Carnegie Mellon has a very young tean 
this year, as the Tartans lost six talentec 
players to graduation last May. Man) 
Tartans are playing new positions, and are 
just settling in. Pitching is another problen 
which the Tartans to deal with, as only twc 
pitchers returned from last year's squad. "We 
hit the ball well today, I'm very happy," saic 
Tartan manager Bill Allen, "but we stil
IwVc d lul lu leaiik.
Mike Minjock dodges out of the backfield
playoff game versus Salisbury State last 
season...Robert Butts, CMU's Division III 
All-American tackle, had signed a contract to 
play guard for the USFL’s Orlando 
Renegades, but his pro hopes died with the 
league...Dan Preston, who hasn't booted a 
football since high school, is the backup 
placekicker for the Tartans on the road...Two 
of Carnegie Mellon’s last three losses have 
been to Salisbury State, in the NCAA 
playoffs.
Coming Up - Carnegie Mellon takes its 
show on the road for the second straight 
week, playing one of the team's most 
important contests of the year. They will 
face Case Western Reserve in Cleveland, 
Ohio, ranked 19th in Dvision III by The 
Football News' pre-season poll. Sur­
prisingly, all Case could manage last week 
against the Hiram Terriers was 17-all tie. 
That result bodes well for the Tartans this 
week, but means the Terriers, CMU's fifth 
game of the year could be tougher than 
anticipated. Key players to watch for are 
running back Bill Finesliver, second in
Photo by Andy Gillespie
as QB Mike Hensel watches.
North Coast Athletic Conference rushing, 
and linebacker Jay Todd, NCAC Defensive 
player of the year. Kickoff time is 2 pm at 
Case's Eddie Finnigan Field.
The Injury Report - The Tartan gridders 
emerged from the contest relatively 
unscathed. Only three players suffered 
injuries of note, two on defense and one on 
the offense. Mike Minjock had his chin cut 
open, but returned to action before the end of 
the contest. Strong safety Dan Preston 
experienced a mild concussion, his fourth in 
four years, but will most likely play next 
week.
The most serious casualty was middle 
linebacker Dan Lankitus, backup to Ron 
Orie, was accidentally kicked by one of his 
fellow Tartans, and is experiencing shoulder 
pain. The specific injury had not been 
diagnosed at press time, but it is doubtful he 
will see action versus Case Western Reserve 
on Saturday.
Tackle Marcus Muster, sidelined by a thigh 
bruise, will start aginst Case Western this 
week.
Scoreboard
FootballMen's Cross Country
CarnegieMellon 36Carnegie Mellon15
Allegheny College 7Grove City 50
Duquesne 50
SoccerBethany 50
CarnegieMellon 4
Pitt 0Women's Cross Country
Carnegie Mellon26
ColoradoCollege 2Grove City 29
CarnegieMellon 0
Carnegie Mellon16
CarnegieMellon 4Duquesne 44
KutztownState 2
Field Hockey
TennisI.U.P 5
CarnegieMellon 7Carnegie Mellon0
Duquesne2
Muskingum 0
Pitt 6Carnegie Mellon1
CarnegieMellon 3
